Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 4, 2, 5]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
项籍者，下相人也，字羽。
初起时，年二十四。
其季父项梁，梁父即楚将项燕，为秦将王翦所戮者也。
项氏世世为楚将，封於项，故姓项氏。
项籍少时，学书不成，去。
学剑，又不成。
项梁怒之。
籍曰： 书足以记名姓而已。
剑一人敌，不足学，学万人敌。
於是项梁乃教籍兵法，籍大喜，略知其意，又不肯竟学。
项梁尝有栎阳逮，乃请蕲狱掾曹咎书抵栎阳狱掾司马欣，以故事得已。
项梁杀人，与籍避仇於吴中。
吴中贤士大夫皆出项梁下。
每吴中有大繇役及丧，项梁常为主办，阴以兵法部勒宾客及子弟，以是知其能。
秦始皇帝游会稽，渡浙江，梁与籍俱观。
籍曰： 彼可取而代也。
梁掩其口，曰： 毋妄言，族矣！
梁以此奇籍。
籍长八尺馀，力能扛鼎，才气过人，虽吴中子弟皆已惮籍矣。
秦二世元年七月，陈胜等起大泽中。
其九月，会稽守通谓梁曰： 江西皆反，此亦天亡秦之时也。
吾闻先即制人，後则为人所制。
吾欲发兵，使公及桓楚将。
是时桓楚亡在泽中。
梁曰： 桓楚亡，人莫知其处，独籍知之耳。
梁乃出，诫籍持剑居外待。
梁复入，与守坐，曰： 请召籍，使受命召桓楚。 守曰： 诺。
梁召籍入。
须臾，梁眴籍曰： 可行矣！
於是籍遂拔剑斩守头。
项梁持守头，佩其印绶。
门下大惊，扰乱，籍所击杀数十百人。
一府中皆慴伏，莫敢起。
梁乃召故所知豪吏，谕以所为起大事，遂举吴中兵。
使人收下县，得精兵八千人。
梁部署吴中豪杰为校尉、候、司马。
translation: 
Xiang Ji, Xia Xiangren, named Yu.
He was twenty-four years old when he started to fight.
His uncle was Xiang Liang, and Xiang Liang's father was Chu general Xiang Yan, who was killed by Qin general Wang Jian.
The Xiang family has been a general of Chu for generations and was granted the title of Xiang, hence the surname Xiang.
When Xiang Ji was a child, he learned to read and write but failed.
He gave up learning calligraphy and switched to fencing, but failed again.
Xiang Liang was very angry with him.
Xiang Ji said: Characters are only used to remember names.
A sword can only withstand one enemy, so it is not worth learning. You must learn to be able to withstand ten thousand people.
So Xiang Liang taught Xiang Ji the art of war. Xiang Ji was very happy and roughly understood the general idea of ​​the art of war, but he refused to finish it seriously.
Xiang Liang was once implicated in the Yueyang crime case, so he asked Cao Jiu, the warden of Qixian County, to write to Sima Xin, the warden of Yueyang, and the matter was settled.
Xiang Liang killed someone, and he and Xiang Ji went to Wuzhong to avoid their enemies.
None of the talented scholar-bureaucrats in Wuzhong could compare with Xiang Liang.
Whenever there was a large-scale military service or funeral in Wuzhong, Xiang Liang often took charge of the arrangements and secretly used military arrangements to arrange guests and children, so he understood everyone's abilities.
When the First Emperor of Qin visited Kuaiji and crossed Zhejiang, Xiang Liang and Xiang Ji went to watch it together.
Xiang Ji said: I can replace that emperor.
Xiang Liang covered his mouth and said, "Don't talk nonsense, or the whole clan will be beheaded!"
Xiang Liang therefore felt that Xiang Ji was different from ordinary people.
Xiang Ji is more than eight feet tall, can lift a cauldron, and is so talented that the children of Wuzhong already fear him.
In July of the first year of Qin II, Chen She and others revolted in Daze Township.
In September of that year, Yin Tong, the governor of Kuaiji County, told Xiang Liang that Jiangxi had rebelled, and that this was also the time when God would destroy the Qin Dynasty.
I heard that those who strike first can control others, and those who strike last are controlled by others.
I want to send troops and send you and Huan Chu to lead them.
At that time, Huan Chu fled to Zezhong.
Xiang Liang said: Huan Chu died and was hiding outside. No one knew his whereabouts. Only Xiang Ji knew.
Xiang Liang came out and told Xiang Ji to wait outside with his sword.
Xiang Liang went in again and sat with the county guard. Xiang Liang said: "Please allow me to call Xiang Yu in and let him accept the order to recall Huan Chu." The Sheriff said: Okay.
Xiang Liang called Xiang Ji in.
After a while, Xiang Liang winked at Xiang Ji and said, "It's time to take action!"
So Xiang Yu drew his sword and chopped off the head of the governor.
Xiang Liang took the county governor's head and tied the official seal of the county governor on his body.
The guards of the county guard were greatly alarmed and in chaos, Xiang Yu killed more than a hundred people.
Everyone in the mansion was in a state of fear and submission, and no one dared to resist.
Xiang Liang summoned the courageous and powerful officials he was familiar with in the past and made it clear to everyone what he was going to do to raise an army against Qin, so he recruited the soldiers of Wu Zhong to revolt.
He sent people to recruit strong men from the subordinate counties and got 8,000 elite soldiers.
Xiang Liang arranged for the heroes of Wuzhong to be school captains, marquises, and Sima.
summary:
Xiang Ji, also known as Xiang Yu, was a man from Xiaxiang who began his military career at age twenty-four. His uncle was Xiang Liang, son of Chu general Xiang Yan, who was killed by Qin general Wang Jian. The Xiang family had served as Chu generals for generations and were granted the title of Xiang. As a child, Xiang Ji failed at learning calligraphy and fencing, dismissing them as insufficient for facing ten thousand enemies. He studied the art of war under Xiang Liang but refused to master it completely. After Xiang Liang killed someone, they fled to Wuzhong, where Xiang Liang organized military and funeral services, secretly assessing people's abilities. When Qin Shi Huang visited Kuaiji, Xiang Ji declared he could replace the emperor, prompting Xiang Liang to cover his mouth and warn against such talk. Xiang Liang then recognized Xiang Ji's exceptional nature. Xiang Ji was over eight feet tall, could lift a cauldron, and was feared by the youth of Wuzhong.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
有一人不得用，自言於梁。
梁曰： 前时某丧使公主某事，不能办，以此不任用公。
众乃皆伏。
於是梁为会稽守，籍为裨将，徇下县。
广陵人召平於是为陈王徇广陵，未能下。
闻陈王败走，秦兵又且至，乃渡江矫陈王命，拜梁为楚王上柱国。
曰： 江东已定，急引兵西击秦。
项梁乃以八千人渡江而西。
闻陈婴已下东阳，使使欲与连和俱西。
陈婴者，故东阳令史，居县中，素信谨，称为长者。
东阳少年杀其令，相聚数千人，欲置长，无適用，乃请陈婴。
婴谢不能，遂彊立婴为长，县中从者得二万人。
少年欲立婴便为王，异军苍头特起。
陈婴母谓婴曰： 自我为汝家妇，未尝闻汝先古之有贵者。
今暴得大名，不祥。
不如有所属，事成犹得封侯，事败易以亡，非世所指名也。
婴乃不敢为王。
谓其军吏曰： 项氏世世将家，有名於楚。
今欲举大事，将非其人，不可。
我倚名族，亡秦必矣。
於是众从其言，以兵属项梁。
项梁渡淮，黥布、蒲将军亦以兵属焉。
凡六七万人，军下邳。
当是时，秦嘉已立景驹为楚王，军彭城东，欲距项梁。
项梁谓军吏曰： 陈王先首事，战不利，未闻所在。
今秦嘉倍陈王而立景驹，逆无道。
乃进兵击秦嘉。
秦嘉军败走，追之至胡陵。
嘉还战一日，嘉死，军降。
景驹走死梁地。
项梁已并秦嘉军，军胡陵，将引军而西。
章邯军至栗，项梁使别将硃鸡石、馀樊君与战。
馀樊君死。硃鸡石军败，亡走胡陵。
项梁乃引兵入薛，诛鸡石。
translation: 
One person was not appointed and went to complain to Xiang Liang himself.
Xiang Liang said: There was a funeral some time ago and I asked you to take charge of something. You couldn't handle it, so I didn't appoint you.
So everyone admired Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang was the governor of Kuaiji, and Xiang Ji was the general. Zhenfu subordinate counties and cities.
Zhao Ping, a native of Guangling, was trying to capture the territory of Guangling for King Chen, but he did not surrender.
Hearing that King Chen was defeated and fled, and that Qin soldiers were about to arrive, he crossed the river and asked King Chen to give him orders to worship Xiang Liang as the king of Chu's Shangzhu Kingdom.
Zhao Ping said: Jiangdong has been pacified, so quickly lead troops to the west to attack the Qin army.
Xiang Liang crossed the river with eight thousand men and headed west.
He heard that Chen Ying had captured Dongyang, so he sent an envoy to join forces with Chen Ying to advance westward.
Chen Ying turned out to be the governor of Dongyang. He had always been honest and prudent in the county, and people called him a loyal elder.
Young people in Dongyang killed their county magistrate and gathered thousands of people to elect a leader. When no one was found, they asked Chen Ying to take over.
Chen Ying refused and said he was not qualified, so everyone forcibly elected him as the leader, with 20,000 followers in the county.
The young people planned to elect Chen Ying to be king. In order to distinguish himself from other armies, the soldiers wore green scarves on their heads to signify the sudden rise of the army.
Chen Ying's mother said to Chen Ying: Since I became the daughter-in-law of the Chen family, I have never heard that your predecessors had high officials or noble titles.
It's not a good sign to suddenly gain a lot of fame now.
It's better to belong to something. If things succeed, you can still get a title. If things fail, it's easier to escape because you won't attract the attention of the world.
Therefore, Chen Ying did not dare to become king.
He said to his military officers: The Xiang family has been a general for generations and is famous in Chu.
Now if you want to accomplish great things, you have to use the right general.
If we rely on famous families, we will definitely destroy the Qin Dynasty.
So everyone listened to him and gave the army to Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang crossed the Huai River, and generals Yingbu and Pu also led their troops to surrender.
Xiang Liang had a total of sixty or seventy thousand men stationed in Xiapi.
At this time, Qin Jia had established Jingju as King of Chu and stationed himself east of Pengcheng, hoping to resist Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang said to the soldiers: King Chen started the rebellion first, and the battle was not successful. His whereabouts are unknown.
Now Qin Jia betrayed King Chen and established Jingju, which was a treasonous act.
Xiang Liang then marched to attack Qin Jia.
Qin Jia's army was defeated and fled, and Xiang Liang pursued him to Hu Ling.
Qin Jia returned to the army and fought for a day. Qin Jia was killed in battle and his soldiers surrendered.
Jingju fled and died in Liangdi.
Xiang Liang has merged Qin Jia's army and is stationed in Huling, and will lead the army westward.
Zhang Han's army arrived at Li County, and Xiang Liang sent generals Zhujishi and Yu Fanjun to fight with him.
Yu Fanjun died in battle, Zhujishi's army was defeated and fled to Huling.
Xiang Liang then led his troops into Xue County and killed Zhujishi.
summary:
In July of Qin II's first year, Chen She rebelled in Daze Township. In September, Yin Tong, the governor of Kuaiji, proposed raising troops with Xiang Liang and Huan Chu. Xiang Liang, knowing Huan Chu's whereabouts, had Xiang Ji wait with a sword. After entering the governor's chambers, Xiang Liang called Xiang Ji in, who beheaded the governor. Xiang Yu killed over a hundred guards, and the rest submitted. Xiang Liang raised an army of 8,000 elite soldiers from Wuzhong, appointing local heroes as officers. He became governor of Kuaiji, with Xiang Ji as general. Zhao Ping of Guangling urged Xiang Liang to lead troops west to attack Qin. Xiang Liang crossed the river with 8,000 men, joined forces with Chen Ying of Dongyang, and gained 60,000-70,000 troops at Xiapi. He defeated Qin Jia, who had betrayed King Chen, and merged his army. After defeating Qin forces at Dong'a, Xiang Liang grew arrogant, ignoring Song Yi's warnings. Qin reinforced Zhang Han, who defeated and killed Xiang Liang at Dingtao.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
天寒大雨，士卒冻饥。
项羽曰： 将戮力而攻秦，久留不行。
今岁饥民贫，士卒食芋菽，军无见粮，乃饮酒高会，不引兵渡河因赵食，与赵并力攻秦，乃曰 承其敝 。
夫以秦之彊，攻新造之赵，其势必举赵。
赵举而秦彊，何敝之承！
且国兵新破，王坐不安席，埽境内而专属於将军，国家安危，在此一举。
今不恤士卒而徇其私，非社稷之臣。
项羽晨朝上将军宋义，即其帐中斩宋义头，出令军中曰： 宋义与齐谋反楚，楚王阴令羽诛之。
当是时，诸将皆慴服，莫敢枝梧。
皆曰： 首立楚者，将军家也。
今将军诛乱。
乃相与共立羽为假上将军。
使人追宋义子，及之齐，杀之。
使桓楚报命於怀王。
怀王因使项羽为上将军，当阳君、蒲将军皆属项羽。
项羽已杀卿子冠军，威震楚国，名闻诸侯。乃遣当阳君、蒲将军将卒二万渡河，救钜鹿。
战少利，陈馀复请兵。
项羽乃悉引兵渡河，皆沉船，破釜甑，烧庐舍，持三日粮，以示士卒必死，无一还心。
於是至则围王离，与秦军遇，九战，绝其甬道，大破之，杀苏角，虏王离。
涉间不降楚，自烧杀。
当是时，楚兵冠诸侯。
诸侯军救钜鹿下者十馀壁，莫敢纵兵。
及楚击秦，诸将皆从壁上观。
楚战士无不一以当十，楚兵呼声动天，诸侯军无不人人惴恐。
於是已破秦军，项羽召见诸侯将，入辕门，无不膝行而前，莫敢仰视。
项羽由是始为诸侯上将军，诸侯皆属焉。
章邯军棘原，项羽军漳南，相持未战。
秦军数卻，二世使人让章邯。
translation: 
It was cold and raining heavily, and the soldiers were freezing and hungry.
Xiang Yu said: Originally, we planned to attack Qin together, but we stopped for a long time.
Nowadays, there is famine and hunger, and the people are poor. The soldiers can only eat half a liter of beans, and there is no food in the army. However, Song Yi still holds banquets and receives guests. Instead of leading the army across the river to take Zhao's food on the spot, he says "wait for the Qin army to be exhausted."
With Qin's powerful troops attacking the newly established Zhao State, the result of the development of the situation must be that the Qin army defeats the Zhao army.
Zhao's army was defeated, and Qin's army was stronger. What opportunity could there be to take advantage of exhaustion!
Moreover, the Chu army had been defeated recently, and the king was restless, so he concentrated all the troops in the country under the general's command. The safety of the country was at stake.
Nowadays, we do not care about the soldiers, but only seek selfish interests. This is not a minister who shares the same interests with the country.
Xiang Yu met General Song Yi in the morning, cut off Song Yi's head in his tent, and came out to give orders to the army: Song Yi and Qi State conspired against Chu, and the King of Chu secretly ordered me to kill him.
At this time, the generals were all afraid and surrendered, and no one dared to resist.
It is said that the generals and their families founded the State of Chu.
Now it was the general who executed the rebels again.
The generals jointly elected Xiang Yu as acting general.
He sent people to chase Song Yi's son, and caught up with him in Qi State and killed him.
Xiang Yu sent Huan Chu to report to King Huai of Chu.
King Huai of Chu made Xiang Yu the general, and both Dangyang Jun and General Pu belonged to Xiang Yu.
Xiang Yu had killed the champion of Qingzi, which shocked the Chu country and became famous among the princes. He sent Lord Dangyang and General Pu to lead 20,000 soldiers across the river to rescue Julu.
After the war was somewhat successful, Chen Yu asked Xiang Yu for more troops.
Xiang Yu led his entire army across the river, scuttled the ships, smashed the cooking utensils, burned the camps, and carried three days of rations to show that the soldiers fought to the death and no one had any intention of coming back alive.
As soon as the army arrived, they surrounded Wang Li, encountered the Qin army, fought nine battles, cut off the Qin army's corridors, and defeated the Qin army. Killed Su Jiao and captured Wang Li.
Shejian refused to surrender to the Chu army and burned himself to death.
At that time, the Chu army was famous among the princes.
At that time, the various princes who came to rescue Zhao had more than a dozen large camps, but they did not dare to send troops easily.
When the Chu army attacked, the princes and generals were watching the battle on the camp.
The soldiers of the Chu army were all equal to ten. The shouts of the Chu soldiers shook the sky, and the soldiers of the princes were frightened.
Having defeated the Qin army, Xiang Yu summoned all the princes and generals. They entered the camp gate and walked forward on their knees, not daring to look up.
From then on, Xiang Yu became the general of the princes' armies, and all the princes surrendered to him.
Zhang Han was stationed at Jiyuan and Xiang Yu was stationed at the south bank of Zhangshui River. The two armies were in a stalemate and there was no fighting.
The Qin army retreated many times, and the Second Emperor sent someone to punish Zhang Han.
summary:
After Xiang Liang's death, King Huai of Chu appointed Song Yi as supreme general to rescue Zhao, with Xiang Yu as second-in-command. Song Yi stalled at Anyang for 46 days. Xiang Yu killed him for incompetence and took command, leading the army across the river after sinking ships and burning camps. They defeated the Qin army at Julu, killing Su Jiao and capturing Wang Li. The Chu army's victory made Xiang Yu the commander of all allied forces. Zhang Han, facing pressure from Zhao Gao, surrendered to Xiang Yu after negotiations. Xiang Yu appointed Zhang Han as King Yong but later executed over 200,000 Qin soldiers at Xin'an due to fears of rebellion.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
项梁前使项羽别攻襄城，襄城坚守不下。
已拔，皆阬之。还报项梁。
项梁闻陈王定死，召诸别将会薛计事。
此时沛公亦起沛，往焉。
居鄛人范增，年七十，素居家，好奇计，往说项梁曰： 陈胜败固当。
夫秦灭六国，楚最无罪。
自怀王入秦不反，楚人怜之至今，故楚南公曰 楚虽三户，亡秦必楚 也。
今陈胜首事，不立楚後而自立，其势不长。
今君起江东，楚蜂午之将皆争附君者，以君世世楚将，为能复立楚之後也。
於是项梁然其言，乃求楚怀王孙心民间，为人牧羊，立以为楚怀王，从民所望也。
陈婴为楚上柱国，封五县，与怀王都盱台。
项梁自号为武信君。
居数月，引兵攻亢父，与齐田荣、司马龙且军救东阿，大破秦军於东阿。
田荣即引兵归，逐其王假。
假亡走楚。
假相田角亡走赵。
角弟田间故齐将，居赵不敢归。
田荣立田儋子市为齐王。
项梁已破东阿下军，遂追秦军。
数使使趣齐兵，欲与俱西。
田荣曰： 楚杀田假，赵杀田角、田间，乃发兵。
项梁曰： 田假为与国之王，穷来从我，不忍杀之。
赵亦不杀田角、田间以市於齐。
齐遂不肯发兵助楚。
项梁使沛公及项羽别攻城阳，屠之。
西破秦军濮阳东，秦兵收入濮阳。
沛公、项羽乃攻定陶。
定陶未下，去，西略地至雝丘，大破秦军，斩李由。
还攻外黄，外黄未下。
项梁起东阿，西，至定陶，再破秦军，项羽等又斩李由，益轻秦，有骄色。
宋义乃谏项梁曰： 战胜而将骄卒惰者败。
今卒少惰矣，秦兵日益，臣为君畏之。
项梁弗听。
乃使宋义使於齐。
道遇齐使者高陵君显，曰： 公将见武信君乎？
translation: 
Before this, Xiang Liang sent Xiang Yu to lead another army to attack Xiangcheng, but Xiangcheng held on and refused to surrender.
After the capture, all the soldiers and civilians who defended the city were killed, and they came back to report to Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang heard that King Chen was indeed dead, so he summoned all the generals to Xue County to discuss important matters.
At this time, Pei Gong also raised troops from Pei and went to Xue County.
Fan Zeng, a Juhuan, is seventy years old. He has always lived at home and likes to come up with clever ideas. He went to lobby Xiang Liang and said: Chen Sheng's failure was the right thing to do.
Qin destroyed the six kingdoms, and Chu was the least at fault.
Since King Huai of Chu entered Qin and never returned, the people of Chu still miss him. Therefore, Duke Nan of Chu said, "Although Chu has three households, if Qin is destroyed, it will be Chu."
Now that Chen Sheng is the first to start the rebellion and proclaim himself king instead of a descendant of Chu, his situation will not last long.
Now that you have launched an army to the east of the Yangtze River, the people of Chu are like swarms of bees, all vying to join you. This is because the Xiang family has been Chu generals for generations and can once again establish the descendants of Chu.
Xiang Liang thought he was right, so he found the grandson of King Huai of Chu among the people. He was tending sheep for people. Xiang Liang made him King Huai of Chu and obeyed the people's wishes.
Chen Ying ruled the Shangzhu Kingdom of Chu and had five counties in his fiefdom. Together with King Huai of Chu, he established Xutai as the capital.
Xiang Liang called himself Lord Wu Xin.
A few months later, Xiang Liang led troops to attack Kangfu, and together with the troops of Tian Rong and Sima Longqie of Qi State, he rescued Dong'a and defeated the Qin army in Dong'a.
Tian Rong led his army back to his old place and drove away King Tianjia of Qi.
Tianjia fled to Chu State.
Tian Jiao, the prime minister of Tianjia, fled to Zhao.
Tian Jiao's younger brother Tian Jian turned out to be a general of Qi State, but he stayed in Zhao State and did not dare to go back.
Tian Rong made Tian Dan's son Tian Shi the king of Qi.
Xiang Liang had already defeated the Qin army in Dong'e, so he pursued him.
He sent envoys many times to urge the Qi army, intending to join forces with it to march westward.
Tian Rong said: Chu killed Tianjia, and Zhao killed Tianjiao and Tianjian, so I will send troops.
Xiang Liang said: Tianjia is the king of a country friendly to Chu. He came to rely on me when he was desperate. I couldn't bear to kill him.
Zhao also did not kill Tianjiao and Tianjian as a condition of exchange with Qi.
So Qi refused to send troops to help Chu.
Xiang Liang sent Pei Gong and Xiang Yu to lead another army to attack Chengyang and massacred the county seat.
Xiangxi defeated the Qin army east of Puyang, and the Qin army withdrew its troops and entered Puyang.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu attacked Dingtao.
After failing to capture Dingtao, he led his army to leave, marched westward and captured the territory, reaching Yongqiu, where he defeated the Qin army and killed Li You.
He returned to attack Waihuang but failed to capture it.
Xiang Liang set out from Dong'a and marched westward. When he arrived at Dingtao, he defeated the Qin army again. Xiang Yu and others killed Li You again. Therefore, Xiang Liang despised the Qin army more and more and looked arrogant.
Song Yi advised Xiang Liang: If you win a battle but your generals are arrogant and your soldiers are lazy, you will lose.
Now the soldiers are a little slack and the number of Qin soldiers is increasing day by day. I am worried about you.
Xiang Liang did not listen to the advice.
So he sent Song Yi as envoy to Qi.
On the way, I met Gaoling Junxian, the envoy of Qi State, and asked him: Are you going to see Mr. Wu Xin?
summary:
Xiang Yu entered Hangu Pass and camped at Hongmen, where Pei Gong (Liu Bang) had already taken Xianyang. Fan Zeng urged Xiang Yu to kill Pei Gong, but Xiang Bo warned Pei Gong, who apologized at the Hongmen feast. Xiang Zhuang's sword dance failed to assassinate Pei Gong, who escaped with Fan Kuai's help. Xiang Yu later entered Xianyang, killed Ziying, burned the Qin palace, and collected treasures. He divided the empire, making Pei Gong King of Han and himself Hegemon-King of Western Chu. He moved Emperor Yi to Chen County and had him killed. Conflicts arose as Tian Rong rebelled in Qi and Chen Yu attacked Changshan. The King of Han conquered the Three Qins and marched east, leading to a prolonged war with Xiang Yu.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
章邯恐，使长史欣请事。
至咸阳，留司马门三日，赵高不见，有不信之心。
长史欣恐，还走其军，不敢出故道，赵高果使人追之，不及。
欣至军，报曰： 赵高用事於中，下无可为者。
今战能胜，高必疾妒吾功；战不能胜，不免於死。
原将军孰计之。
陈馀亦遗章邯书曰： 白起为秦将，南征鄢郢，北阬马服，攻城略地，不可胜计，而竟赐死。
蒙恬为秦将，北逐戎人，开榆中地数千里，竟斩阳周。
何者？
功多，秦不能尽封，因以法诛之。
今将军为秦将三岁矣，所亡失以十万数，而诸侯并起滋益多。
彼赵高素谀日久，今事急，亦恐二世诛之，故欲以法诛将军以塞责，使人更代将军以脱其祸。
夫将军居外久，多内卻，有功亦诛，无功亦诛。
且天之亡秦，无愚智皆知之。
今将军内不能直谏，外为亡国将，孤特独立而欲常存，岂不哀哉！
将军何不还兵与诸侯为从，约共攻秦，分王其地，南面称孤；此孰与身伏鈇质，妻子为僇乎？
章邯狐疑，阴使候始成使项羽，欲约。
约未成，项羽使蒲将军日夜引兵度三户，军漳南，与秦战，再破之。
项羽悉引兵击秦军汙水上，大破之。
章邯使人见项羽，欲约。
项羽召军吏谋曰： 粮少，欲听其约。
军吏皆曰： 善。
项羽乃与期洹水南殷虚上。
已盟，章邯见项羽而流涕，为言赵高。
项羽乃立章邯为雍王，置楚军中。
使长史欣为上将军，将秦军为前行。
到新安。
诸侯吏卒异时故繇使屯戍过秦中，秦中吏卒遇之多无状，及秦军降诸侯，诸侯吏卒乘胜多奴虏使之，轻折辱秦吏卒。
秦吏卒多窃言曰： 章将军等诈吾属降诸侯，今能入关破秦，大善；即不能，诸侯虏吾属而东，秦必尽诛吾父母妻子。
诸侯微闻其计，以告项羽。
项羽乃召黥布、蒲将军计曰： 秦吏卒尚众，其心不服，至关中不听，事必危，不如击杀之，而独与章邯、长史欣、都尉翳入秦。
於是楚军夜击阬秦卒二十馀万人新安城南。
行略定秦地。
函谷关有兵守关，不得入。
translation: 
Zhang Han was frightened and sent Chief Shi Simaxin to ask for instructions.
When he arrived in Xianyang, he waited outside the door for three days. Zhao Gao did not receive him, which was a sign of distrust.
Chief Shi Sima Xin was frightened and hurriedly fled back to the army. He didn't dare to take the original route. As expected, Zhao Gao sent people to chase him, but he failed to catch up.
Sima Xin arrived in the army and reported to Zhang Han: Zhao Gao has great power in the DPRK, and the people below cannot make a difference.
Now that the battle can be won, Zhao Gao must be jealous of our achievements; if the battle cannot be won, he will inevitably be executed.
I hope the general will think this through.
Chen Yu also sent a letter to Zhang Han saying: Bai Qi was the general of Qin. He attacked Yan and Ying to the south, killed horses and soldiers to the north, attacked the city and lost ground. He was countless, and in the end he was killed.
Meng Tian was a Qin general who drove the Xiongnu from the north and opened up an area of ​​thousands of miles in Yuzhong. He was eventually killed in Yangzhou.
Why?
There was too much merit, and Qin could not grant titles according to merit, so it used national laws to kill them.
Now that the general has been the general of Qin for three years, he has lost hundreds of thousands of soldiers, and the princes' armies have risen at the same time, increasing their numbers.
That Zhao Gao has always been flattering for a long time. Now the situation is critical, and he is afraid that the second generation will kill him, so he plans to use the national law to kill the general to shirk his responsibility, and to send someone from outside to replace the general to get rid of the disaster.
The general has been away for a long time, and many people in the court are alienated from you. Even if you have merit, you will be killed, and if you have no merit, you will be killed.
Besides, Qin is going to be destroyed, and both the stupid and the smart people know it.
Nowadays, the general cannot express his opinions directly at home, but outside he is the general of a country that is about to perish. He is isolated and helpless and wants to stay for a long time. Isn't it sad?
Why don't the general defect and join forces with various princes, sign a peace treaty, jointly attack Qin, cede the land to the king, sit facing south, and claim to be a lonely Taoist and a widower? Which one is better, or to be killed on the anvil and have his wife killed?
Zhang Han hesitated and secretly sent military commander Shicheng to Xiang Yu's camp to sign a peace treaty.
The peace treaty was not negotiated, so Xiang Yu asked General Pu to lead his troops across Sanhujin day and night, camped on the south bank of Zhang River, fought with the Qin army, and defeated the Qin army again.
Xiang Yu led the entire army to attack the Qin army on the sewage, and defeated the Qin army.
Zhang Han sent people to see Xiang Yu and planned to make a peace treaty.
Xiang Yu summoned the military officials to discuss: The army is short of food and wants to allow him to sign a peace treaty.
All the military officers said, "Okay."
Xiang Yu and Zhang Han made an appointment to meet at the Yin Ruins on the south bank of Huan River.
The alliance had been concluded. When Zhang Han saw Xiang Yu, he broke down in tears and told Xiang Yu all the deeds of Zhao Gao.
Xiang Yu then appointed Zhang Han as King Yong and placed him in the Chu army camp.
The envoy commander Shi Sima Xin was appointed as the general and led the Qin army as the advance force.
The army arrived at Xin'an.
The officers and soldiers of the princes' armies had previously passed through Guanzhong because of their corvee service and guarding the border areas. The Qin soldiers often insulted them. When the Qin army surrendered to the princes' army, the officers and soldiers of the princes' army took advantage of the victory in the war and treated them like slaves and prisoners, torturing and humiliating the Qin officers and soldiers at will.
Most of the Qin officers and soldiers discussed privately: General Zhang and others deceived us into surrendering to the princes' armies. Now we can enter the pass and defeat Qin, which is good; if we can't, the princes' troops will capture us and go eastward; Qin will definitely put our parents and wives to death.
The generals of the princes' armies secretly heard their plan and reported it to Xiang Yu.
Xiang Yu went to Generals Ying Bu and Pu to discuss: There were still many Qin officers and soldiers, and they were dissatisfied. If they did not obey orders when they arrived at Guanzhong, things would be in danger. It would be better to kill them, and only enter Qin with Zhang Han, Chang Shi Sima Xin, and Captain Dong Yi.
So the Chu army executed more than 200,000 Qin soldiers at night and buried them in the south of Xin'an City.
Xiang Yu is about to capture the Qin Guanzhong area.
Hangu Pass is guarded by soldiers and cannot enter.
summary:
The war saw numerous battles, including the Han defeat at Pengcheng and the siege of Xingyang. Xiang Yu's forces were weakened by defections and food shortages. After a stalemate at Guangwu, Xiang Yu agreed to divide the empire at the Hong Canal, releasing the King of Han's family. However, the King of Han broke the treaty and pursued Xiang Yu. At Gaixia, Xiang Yu's army was surrounded, and hearing Chu songs, he realized defeat was imminent. He fled with 800 cavalry, but only 28 remained at Dongcheng. After killing hundreds of Han soldiers, he committed suicide, refusing to cross the Wu River. His body was divided among five Han officers for rewards. The city of Lu surrendered only after seeing his head, and he was buried with the rites of a duke. The Han king did not kill the Xiang clan, granting some titles. Sima Qian noted Xiang Yu's rise from obscurity to dominance in three years but criticized his arrogance, abandonment of Guanzhong, and failure to learn from the past, attributing his downfall to his own faults rather than divine will.

