Chunk 0: 
original: 
陈胜者，阳城人也，字涉。
吴广者，阳夏人也，字叔。
陈涉少时，尝与人佣耕，辍耕之垄上，怅恨久之，曰： 苟富贵，无相忘。
庸者笑而应曰： 若为庸耕，何富贵也？
陈涉太息曰： 嗟乎，燕雀安知鸿鹄ú之志哉！
二世元年七月，发闾左敌戍渔阳，九百人屯大泽乡。
陈胜、吴广皆次当行，为屯长。
会天大雨，道不通，度已失期。
失期，法皆斩。
陈胜、吴广乃谋曰： 今亡亦死，举大计亦死，等死，死国可乎？
陈胜曰： 天下苦秦久矣。
吾闻二世少子也，不当立，当立者乃公子扶苏。
扶苏以数谏故，上使外将兵。
今或闻无罪，二世杀之。
translation: 
Chen Sheng, a native of Yangcheng, was named She.
Wu Guang, a native of Yangxia, was given the courtesy name Uncle.
When Chen She was young, he was hired to plow the fields with others. Once when he stopped plowing and went to rest on the ridge of the field, he lamented and resented for a long time and said, "If anyone becomes rich in the future, let's not forget each other."
The companions who were employed with him smiled and replied: You are hired to plow the fields, how can you be rich? Chen She sighed and said: Alas!
How can small birds such as swallows and sparrows understand the lofty aspirations of geese and swans!
In July of the first year of Qin II, the poor living on the left side of the lane were recruited to defend Yuyang. A total of 900 people were stationed in Daze Township.
Chen Sheng and Wu Guang both joined the ranks of this expedition and became village commanders.
It happened to be raining heavily and the roads were blocked. They probably missed the deadline to reach Yuyang.
After the prescribed time limit, everyone should be beheaded according to the law.
Chen Sheng and Wu Guang discussed it and said: Now it is death to escape, and it is death to rise up and do a great cause. It is also death. Is it good to die for national affairs?
Chen Sheng said: The world has been suffering from the rule of the Qin Dynasty for a long time.
I heard that the second emperor was the youngest son of the first emperor. He should not succeed to the throne. The one who should succeed was the young master Fusu.
Because Fusu repeatedly advised the emperor, the emperor sent him to lead troops to station in other places.
Now some people heard that he was not guilty of any crime, but was killed by the second emperor.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
百姓多闻其贤，未知其死也。
项燕为楚将，数有功，爱士卒，楚人怜之。
或以为死，或以为亡。
今诚以吾众诈自称公子扶苏、项燕，为天下唱，宜多应者。
吴广以为然。
乃行卜。卜者知其指意，曰： 足下事皆成，有功。
然足下卜之鬼乎！
陈胜、吴广喜，念鬼，曰： 此教我先威众耳。
乃丹书帛曰 陈胜王 ，置人所罾鱼腹中。
卒买鱼烹食，得鱼腹中书，固以怪之矣。又间令吴广之次所旁丛祠中，夜篝火，狐鸣呼曰 大楚兴，陈胜王 。卒皆夜惊恐。
旦日，卒中往往语，皆指目陈胜。
吴广素爱人，士卒多为用者。
translation: 
The common people heard that he was very virtuous, but they didn't know that he was dead.
Xiang Yan was originally a general of the Chu State. He had made many meritorious deeds and loved his soldiers. The people of Chu State loved him.
Some people thought he was dead, others thought he was on the run and hiding.
Now, if we use the names of Princes Fusu and Xiang Yan to call for uprising to the people of the world, many people will respond.
Wu Guang thinks it is right.
So he went to divine good and bad luck. The fortune teller knew their intentions and said: "You can succeed in everything and make achievements."
But have you ever asked ghosts and gods about good or bad luck?
Chen Sheng and Wu Guang were very happy. They tried to figure out what the fortune teller meant by asking ghosts and gods about good or bad luck, and said, "This is to teach us to establish prestige among others first."
So he wrote the words "King Chen Sheng" on a piece of white silk with cinnabar, and stuffed it into the belly of the fish caught by others in a net.
The garrison soldier bought the fish and cooked it. He found the silk book in the fish belly and naturally felt very strange about it. Chen Sheng also secretly sent Wu Guang to an ancient temple overgrown with vegetation near the station, lit a bonfire at night, and imitated the voice of a fox and shouted: "Great Chu Xing, King Chen Sheng." The garrison soldiers were frightened when they heard this cry in the middle of the night.
The next morning, there was a lot of discussion among the garrison troops, and everyone was pointing and looking at Chen Sheng.
Wu Guang has always cared about others, and many people were willing to serve him.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
将尉醉，广故数言欲亡，忿恚尉，令辱之，以激怒其众。
尉果笞广。尉剑挺，广起，夺而杀尉。
陈胜佐之，并杀两尉。
召令徒属曰： 公等遇雨，皆已失期，失期当斩。
藉弟令毋斩，而戍死者固十六七。
且壮士不死即已，死即举大名耳，王侯将相宁有种乎！
徒属皆曰： 敬受命。
乃诈称公子扶苏、项燕，从民欲也。
袒右，称大楚。
为坛而盟，祭以尉首。
陈胜自立为将军，吴广为都尉。
攻大泽乡，收而攻蕲。
蕲下，乃令符离人葛婴将兵徇蕲í以东。
攻铚、酂、苦、柘、谯皆下之。
translation: 
Once, the county captain escorting the team was drunk. Wu Guang deliberately threatened to escape many times to anger the county captain, provoke him to humiliate him in public, and anger everyone.
As expected, the county lieutenant whipped Wu Guang, and the county lieutenant drew his sword again. Wu Guang rose up, grabbed the sword, and killed the county lieutenant.
Chen Sheng assisted Wu Guang and killed two county captains together.
Then he summoned his subordinates and said: "Everyone has encountered heavy rain here. Everyone has missed the deadline to go to Yuyang. If you miss the deadline, you will be beheaded according to regulations."
Even if they are not beheaded, six out of ten people will definitely die while guarding the border in the future.
Besides, as long as a man dies, he must be famous for future generations. Are princes, generals and ministers all born noble?
After hearing this, all the subordinates said in unison: We are willing to obey the orders.
So Chen Sheng and others staged an uprising in the name of Prince Fusu and Chu general Xiang Yan to comply with the people's wishes.
Everyone showed their right arms as a sign, under the banner of "Great Chu".
They also built a high platform to take the oath and used the general's head as a sacrifice.
Chen Sheng appointed himself as general and Wu Guang as captain.
First they attacked Daze Township, and after that they attacked Qixian County.
After Qixian was captured, he sent Ge Ying from Fuli to lead his troops to capture the area east of Qixian.
They attacked Qi, Feng, Kuzhe and Qiao in succession and captured them all.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
行收兵。比至陈，车六七百乘，骑千余，卒数万人。
攻陈，陈守令皆不在，独守丞与战谯门中。
弗胜，守丞死，乃入据陈。
数日，号令召三老、豪杰与皆来会计事。
三老、豪杰皆曰： 将军身被坚执锐，伐无道，诛暴秦，复立楚国之社稷，功宜为王。 陈涉乃立为王，号为张楚。
当此时，诸郡县苦秦吏者，皆刑其长吏，杀之以应陈涉。
乃以吴叔为假王，监诸将以西击荥阳。
令陈人武臣、张耳、陈余徇赵地，令汝阴人邓宗徇九江郡。
当此时，楚兵数千人为聚者，不可胜数。
葛婴至东城，立襄强为楚王。
婴后闻陈王已立，因杀襄强，还报。
至陈，陈王诛杀葛婴。
陈王令魏人周市北徇魏地。
吴广围荥阳。
李由为三川守，守荥阳，吴叔弗能下。
陈王征国之豪杰与计，以上蔡人房君蔡赐为上柱国。
translation: 
As they marched, they continued to replenish their troops and expand their ranks. By the time they reached Chen County, they had six to seven hundred chariots, more than a thousand cavalry, and tens of thousands of infantry.
When Chen County was attacked, the county guards and magistrates there were not in the city. Only the county magistrate who stayed behind led the troops and fought with the rebels under the city gate.
As a result, the county magistrate was defeated and died, so the rebel army entered the city and occupied Chen County.
A few days later, Chen Sheng ordered the three elders in charge of education and local heroes to be summoned for a meeting.
Everyone present said: General, you are wearing armor and holding sharp weapons. You have attacked the unprincipled king, destroyed the tyrannical Qin Dynasty, and re-established the Chu State. In terms of merit, you should be called the king. Chen She then proclaimed himself king and named his country Zhang Chu.
At this time, the people in various counties and counties who suffered due to the governance of the officials of the Qin Dynasty responded to Chen She by hijacking the officials to judge their crimes and killing them.
So Wu Guang was appointed as the acting king and led the generals to attack Xingyang westward.
He ordered Wu Chen, Zhang Er, and Chen Yu from Chen County to capture the original jurisdiction of Zhao, and ordered Deng Zong from Ruyin to capture Jiujiang County.
At this time, thousands of rebels from the Chu region gathered together, too many to count.
Ge Ying arrived at Dongcheng and established Xiang Qiang as King of Chu.
Ge Ying later heard that Chen Sheng had proclaimed himself king, so he killed Xiang Qiang and reported back to Chen Sheng.
As soon as he arrived in Chen County, Chen Sheng killed Ge Ying.
Chen Sheng ordered Wei people Zhou Shi to go north to capture the places that originally belonged to the Wei state.
Wu Guang surrounded Xingyang.
Li You was appointed as the governor of Sanchuan County to defend Xingyang, but Wu Guang could not attack it for a long time.
Chen Sheng summoned the heroes of the country to discuss countermeasures and appointed Cai Ci, the Lord of Shangcai Renfang, as the Shangzhu Kingdom.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
周文，陈之贤人也，尝为项燕军视日，事春申君，自言习兵，陈王与之将军印，西击秦。
行收兵至关，车千乘，卒数十万，至戏，军焉。
秦令少府章邯免郦山徒、人奴产子生，悉发以击楚大军，尽败之。周文败，走出关，止次曹阳二三月。
章邯追败之，复走次渑池十余日。
章邯击，大破之。
周文自刭，军遂不战。
武臣到邯郸，自立为赵王，陈余为大将军，张耳、召骚为左右丞相。
陈王怒，捕系武臣等家室，欲诛之。
柱国曰： 秦未亡而诛赵王将相家属，此生一秦也。
不如因而立之。
陈王乃遣使者贺赵，而徙系武臣等家属宫中，而封耳子张敖为成都君，趣赵兵亟入关。
translation: 
Zhou Wen was a well-known sage in Chen County. He was once an official in Xiang Yan's army who divined good and bad times, and also served under Huang Xie, Prime Minister of Chu Chunshen. He claimed to be familiar with military affairs, so King Chen awarded him the seal of general and ordered him to lead troops west to attack the Qin army.
He gathered troops and horses as he walked along the way. When he arrived at Hangu Pass, there were thousands of chariots and hundreds of thousands of soldiers. When they arrived at the theater, they stationed themselves.
The Qin Dynasty sent Shaofu Zhang Han to pardon those who had committed crimes and served in Lishan Mountain, as well as the sons of domestic slaves, and recruited them all to attack Zhang Chu's army and defeated all the Chu army. After Zhou Wen failed, he escaped from Hangu Pass and stayed in Caoyang for two or three months.
Zhang Han chased him again and defeated him. Zhou Wen fled to Mianchi and stayed there for more than ten days.
Zhang Han came to pursue him again and defeated him miserably.
Zhou Wen committed suicide, and his army could no longer fight.
When the military minister arrived at Handan, he proclaimed himself King of Zhao, Chen Yu became the general, and Zhang Er and Zhao Sao became the prime ministers of the left and right.
King Chen was very angry when he found out, so he arrested and imprisoned the family members of Wu Chen and others, intending to kill them.
Cai Ci of the Shangzhu State said: Killing the family members of King Zhao, generals and ministers before the Qin Dynasty was destroyed, this is tantamount to giving birth to another Qin State that is our enemy.
It is better to take this opportunity to make him the king of Zhao.
King Chen then sent envoys to the State of Zhao to congratulate him. At the same time, he moved the family members of the military officials and others to the palace and placed them under house arrest. He also made Zhang Er's son Zhang Ao the king of Chengdu, and urged the Zhao army to march to Hangu Pass as soon as possible.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
赵王将相相与谋曰： 王王赵，非楚意也。
楚已诛秦，必加兵于赵。
计莫如毋西兵，使使北徇燕地以自广也。
赵南据大河，北有燕、代，楚虽胜秦，不敢制赵。
若楚不胜秦，必重赵。
赵乘秦之弊，可以得志于天下。
赵王以为然，因不西兵，而遣故上谷卒史韩广将兵北徇燕地。
燕故贵人豪杰谓韩广曰： 楚已立王，赵又已立王。
燕虽小，亦万乘之国也，愿将军立为燕王。
韩广曰： 广母在赵，不可。
燕人曰： 赵方西忧秦，南忧楚，其力不能禁我。
且以楚之强，不敢害赵王将相之家，赵独安敢害将军之家！ 韩广以为然，乃自立为燕王。
居数月，赵奉燕王母及家属归之燕。
translation: 
The generals and ministers of King Zhao's military officials discussed and said: Your Majesty, it is not Chu's original intention to proclaim yourself king in the land of Zhao.
After Chu defeats Qin, he will definitely attack Zhao.
The best way is not to send troops to march westward, but to send people northward to capture the original jurisdiction of Yan State to expand our own territory.
Zhao State is surrounded by the natural dangers of the Yellow River to the south, and the vast lands of Yan and Dai are to the north. Even if Chu State defeated Qin State, it would not dare to suppress Zhao State.
If Chu could not defeat Qin, it would definitely rely on Zhao.
At that time, Zhao State will be able to realize its ambition to rule the world by taking advantage of Qin State's weakness.
King Zhao thought it was reasonable, so he did not send troops westward. Instead, he sent Han Guang, a former soldier of Shanggu County, to lead troops north to capture Yan.
The former aristocratic heroes of Yan State advised Han Guang: Chu State has established a king, and Zhao State has also established a king.
Although the Yan State is small, it used to be a country with tens of thousands of military chariots. I hope that you, general, will become the king of Yan on your own.
Han Guang replied: My mother is still in Zhao State and cannot do this.
The people of Yan said: Zhao is worried about Qin to the west and Chu to the south. Its power cannot restrain us.
Moreover, the state of Chu was so powerful that it did not dare to kill the family members of the king of Zhao, generals and ministers. How could the state of Zhao dare to kill the family members of your general? Han Guang thought what they said was reasonable, so he became King of Yan on his own.
After a few months, the State of Zhao sent people to escort the mother of King Yan and her family to the State of Yan.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
当此之时，诸将之徇地者，不可胜数。
周市北徇地至狄，狄人田儋杀狄令，自立为齐王，以齐反击周市。
市军散，还至魏地，欲立魏后故甯陵君咎为魏王。
时咎在陈王所，不得之魏。
魏地已定，欲相与立周市为魏王，周市不肯。
使者五反，陈王乃立甯陵君咎为魏王，遣之国。
周市卒为相。
将军田臧等相与谋曰： 周章军已破矣，秦兵旦暮至，我围荥阳城弗能下，秦军至，必大败。
不如少遗兵，足以守荥阳，悉精兵迎秦军。
今假王骄，不知兵权，不可与计，非诛之，事恐败。
因相与矫王令以诛吴叔，献其首于陈王。
陈王使使赐田臧楚令尹印，使为上将。
田臧乃使诸将李归等守荥阳城，自以精兵西迎秦军于敖仓。
translation: 
At this time, countless generals went to various places to attack cities and occupy territory.
Zhou Shi went north to capture the city and reached Di County. Tian Dan, a native of Di County, killed the magistrate of Di County and proclaimed himself the king of Qi. He relied on the power of Qi to counterattack Zhou Shi.
Zhou Shi's army was defeated and retreated to Wei, intending to make Ningling Junjiu, a descendant of King Wei, king of Wei.
At that time, Jiu was with King Chen and could not return to Wei.
After Wei was pacified, everyone wanted to support Zhou Shi as King of Wei, but Zhou Shi refused to accept it.
The envoys went back and forth between King Chen and Zhou City five times. King Chen agreed to make Ningling Jun Jiu the king of Wei and sent him back to Wei.
Zhou Shi finally became the prime minister of Wei.
General Tian Zang and others jointly planned and said: Zhou Zhang's army has been defeated, and the Qin Dynasty's army will arrive sooner or later. Our army surrounds Xingyang City and cannot conquer it. If the Qin army comes, it will be defeated.
It is better to leave less troops, enough to surround Xingyang, and lead all the elite troops to meet the Qin army.
Now the false king Wu Guang is arrogant and rude, and does not know the tactics of using troops to fight. We cannot discuss with him. If we don't kill him, the matter may fail.
Therefore, they falsely reported that King Chen had ordered Uncle Wu to be killed and his head was dedicated to King Chen.
King Chen sent an envoy to give Tian Zang the official seal of Ling Yin of Chu State and appointed him as the general.
Tian Zang sent his general Li Gui and others to surround Xingyang City, and he led his elite troops westward to Aocang to meet the Qin army.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
与战，田臧死，军破。
章邯进兵击李归等荥阳下，破之，李归等死。
阳城人邓说将兵居郏，章邯别将击破之，邓说军散走陈。
铚人伍徐将兵居许，章邯击破之，伍徐军皆散走陈。
陈王诛邓说。
陈王初立时，陵人秦嘉、铚人董绁、符离人朱鸡石、取虑人郑布、徐人丁疾等皆特起，将兵围东海守庆于郯。
陈王闻，乃使武平君畔为将军，监郯下军。
秦嘉不受命，嘉自立为大司马，恶属武平君。
告军吏曰： 武平君年少，不知兵事，勿听！
因矫以王命杀武平君畔。
章邯已破伍徐，击陈，柱国房君死。
章邯又进兵击陈西张贺军。
陈王出监战，军破，张贺死。
腊月，陈王之汝阴，还至下城父，其御庄贾杀以降秦。
陈胜葬砀，谥曰隐王。
陈王故涓人将军吕臣为仓头军，起新阳，攻陈下之，杀庄贾，复以陈为楚。
translation: 
Fighting with the Qin army, Tian Zang died in the battle and the army was defeated.
Zhang Han marched to Xingyang City to attack Li Gui and others, defeated them, and Li Gui and others died in the battle.
Deng Yue, a native of Yangcheng, led his troops to station in Jiacheng, but was defeated by a force led by Zhang Han's general. Deng Yue led his army to flee to Chen County.
Wu Xu, a Zhi man, led his troops to station in Xu County, but Zhang Han's army defeated him. Wu Xu's army broke up and fled to Chen County.
King Chen killed Deng and said.
When Chen Sheng first became king, Qin Jia from Ling County, Dong Jie from Zhi County, Zhu Jishi from Fuli, Zheng Bu from Qilu, and Ding Ji from Xu County all formed an army to rebel against Qin. They led their troops and besieged the governor of Donghai County named Qing in Tancheng.
After King Chen heard about it, he sent Wu Pingjun as a general to supervise and lead all the armies under Tan City.
Qin Jia refused to accept this order and established himself as Grand Sima, not wanting to be subordinate to Lord Wuping.
Then he told his military officials: Mr. Wu Ping is young and does not understand military affairs. Don't listen to him!
Then he killed Wu Pingpan under the pretense of King Chen's order.
After Zhang Han defeated Wu Xu, he then attacked Chen County. Cai Ci, the king of Chen's state, was killed in the battle.
Zhang Han then led troops to attack Zhang He's troops stationed in the west of Chen County.
King Chen personally came out to supervise the battle, but the Chu army was still defeated and Zhang He was killed.
In December, King Chen retreated to Ruyin. When he returned to Xiachengfu, his coachman Zhuang Jia killed him and surrendered to the Qin army.
After Chen Sheng's death, he was buried in Dang County, and his posthumous title was King Yin.
General Lu Chen, a former minister of King Chen, organized a "Cangtou Army" with their heads wrapped in green scarves. They attacked Chen County from Xinyang. After conquering, they killed Zhuang Jia and made Chen County the capital of Chu.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
初，陈王至陈，令铚人宋留将兵定南阳，入武关。
留已徇南阳，闻陈王死，南阳复为秦。
宋留不能入武关，乃东至新蔡，遇秦军，宋留以军降秦。
秦传留至咸阳，车裂留以徇。
秦嘉等闻陈王军破出走，乃立景驹为楚王，引兵之方与，欲击秦军定陶下。
使公孙庆使齐王，欲与并力俱进。
齐王曰： 闻陈王战败，不知其死生，楚安得不请而立王！
公孙庆曰： 齐不请楚而立王，楚何故请齐而立王！
且楚首事，当令于天下。
田儋诛杀公孙庆。
秦左右校复攻陈，下之。
吕将军走，收兵复聚。
鄱盗当阳君黥布之兵相收，复击秦左右校，破之青波，复以陈为楚。
会项梁立怀王孙心为楚王。
陈胜王凡六月。
已为王，王陈。
translation: 
At first, when King Chen first arrived in Chen County, he ordered Song Liu, a native of Zhi County, to lead troops to pacify Nanyang and then march to Wuguan.
After Song Liu captured Nanyang, news came that King Chen had been killed, so Nanyang was taken back by the Qin army.
Song Liu could not enter Wuguan, so he went east to Xincai. Unexpectedly, he encountered the Qin army again. Song Liu led his troops and surrendered to the Qin army.
The Qin army escorted Song Liu to Xianyang and dismantled his car to show the public.
When Qin Jia and others heard that King Chen's army had been defeated and fled, they made Jing Ju king of Chu and led their troops to Fangyu, preparing to attack the Qin army near Dingtao.
So he sent Gongsun Qing as an envoy to Qi State to meet with Qi King Tian Dan, hoping to unite with him to march together.
King Qi said: I heard that King Chen was defeated and his life and death are still unknown. How could the State of Chu declare itself king without coming to me for instructions?
Gongsun Qing said: Qi established a king without asking Chu for instructions. Why did Chu ask Qi for instructions before establishing a king?
What's more, Chu was the first to revolt against Qin, so he should give orders to the world.
Tian Dan killed Gongsun Qing.
The left and right captains of the Qin army led their troops to attack Chen County again and occupied it.
After General Lu Chen failed to escape, he regrouped his troops.
He joined forces with the army led by Yingbu, who had been a thief in Poyang and was named Dangyang Lord, and attacked the army of Qin's left and right captains again, defeated them at Qingbo, and once again made Chen County the capital of Chu.
Just when Xiang Liang supported King Huai of Chu, his grandson Xin became King of Chu.
Chen Sheng was king for a total of six months.
After becoming king, Chen County was made the capital.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
其故人尝与庸耕者闻之，之陈，扣宫门曰： 吾欲见涉。
宫门令欲缚之。
自辩数，乃置，不肯为通。
陈王出，遮道而呼涉。
陈王闻之，乃召见，载与俱归。
入宫，见殿屋帷帐，客曰： 伙ǒ颐！
涉之为王沉沉者！
楚人谓多为伙，故天下传之，伙涉为王，由陈涉始。
客出入愈益发舒，言陈王故情。
或说陈王曰： 客愚无知，颛ā妄言，轻威。
陈王斩之。
诸陈王故人皆自引去，由是无亲陈王者。
陈王以朱房为中正，胡武为司过，主司群臣。
诸将徇地，至，令之不是者，系而罪之，以苛察为忠。
其所不善者，弗下吏，辄自治之。陈王信用之。
诸将以其故不亲附，此其所以败也。
陈胜虽已死，其所置遣侯王将相竟亡秦，由涉首事也。
高祖时为陈涉置守冢三十家砀，至今血食。
translation: 
Once upon a time, a fellow who had been hired to plow fields with him heard that he had become king. He came to Chen County, knocked on the palace door and said, "I want to see Chen She."
The officer guarding the palace gate wanted to tie him up.
After he repeatedly explained, he was released, but still refused to inform him.
When King Chen went out, he blocked the road and called Chen She's name.
After hearing this, King Chen summoned him and took a carriage back to the palace with him.
After walking into the palace and seeing the halls, houses and curtains, the guest said: Hello!
King Chen She's palace is so tall and profound!
The people of Chu called Duo Huo She the king, so the saying that Huo She was the king started from Chen She.
This guest came and went in and out of the palace more and more freely, and often told people about Chen She's past events.
Someone said to King Chen: Your guest is ignorant and talks nonsense, which is detrimental to your majesty.
King Chen killed the visitor.
From then on, all the old and close friends of King Chen left voluntarily, and no one was close to King Chen anymore.
King Chen appointed Zhu Fang to be the Zhongzheng and Hu Wu to be the Supervisor of Supervision to supervise the faults of the ministers.
The generals captured the place and returned to Chen County. If they disobeyed the orders, they would arrest and punish them, and they would harshly seek the faults of the officials as a sign of loyalty to King Chen.
Anyone they don't like, once they make a mistake, they will punish them without giving it to the officials in charge of justice. King Chen trusted them very much.
Because of these reasons, the generals no longer stayed close to him. This is the reason why King Chen failed.
Although Chen Sheng was dead, the princes and generals he appointed and sent finally destroyed the Qin Dynasty. This was due to Chen She's first uprising against Qin.
During the reign of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, thirty families were placed in Dang County to guard Chen She's tomb, and they still kill animals on time to offer sacrifices to him.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
褚先生曰：地形险阻，所以为固也；兵革刑法，所以为治也。
犹未足恃也。
夫先王以仁义为本，而以固塞文法为枝叶，岂不然哉！
吾闻贾生之称曰：
秦孝公据殽函之固，拥雍州之地，君臣固守，以窥周室。有席卷天下，包举宇内，囊括四海之意，并吞八荒之心。
当是时也，商君佐之，内立法度，务耕织，修守战之备；外连衡而斗诸侯。
于是秦人拱手而取西河之外。
孝公既没，惠文王、武王、昭王蒙故业，因遗策，南取汉中，西举巴蜀，东割膏ā腴之地，收要害之郡。
诸侯恐惧，会盟而谋弱秦。
不爱珍器重宝肥饶之地，以致天下之士。
合从缔交，相与为一。
translation: 
Mr. Chu said: The terrain is dangerous and difficult to traverse in order to consolidate defense; the military reform of weapons and criminal law system is in order to rule the country.
These are still insufficient to rely on.
The former kings regarded benevolence and righteousness as the foundation for governing the country, but regarded strong fortresses and legal provisions as trivial matters. Isn't it right?
I heard Jia Sheng once said:
Qin Xiaogong occupies the dangerous terrain of Xiaoshan and Hangu, and owns the entire Yongzhou area. The monarchs and ministers are firmly guarding it, and they can always spy on the Zhou Dynasty's regime.
At that time, Shang Yang assisted Qin Xiaogong, established a legal system internally, devoted himself to farming and weaving, improved offensive and defensive weapons, and used the strategy of liaison and hegemony externally to make the princes fight against each other.
So Qin State easily and effortlessly acquired a large area of ​​land west of the Yellow River, just like two hands joined together.
After the death of Duke Xiao of Qin, King Huiwen, King Wu, and King Zhaoxiang of Qin took over the governance of Qin Xiaogong. Following the strategies left by their ancestors, they captured Hanzhong to the south, Bashu to the southwest, fertile land to the east, and strategic and dangerous counties to the north.
The princes were frightened and panicked because of this, and they met to form an alliance to discuss countermeasures to weaken Qin.
They spare no effort in precious treasures and fertile land to recruit talents from all over the world.
Adopt a cooperative strategy to form an alliance, support each other, and become one body.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
当此之时，齐有孟尝，赵有平原，楚有春申，魏有信陵：此四君者，皆明知而忠信，宽厚而爱人，尊贤而重士。
约从连衡，兼韩、魏、燕、赵、宋、卫、中山之众。
于是六国之士有宁越、徐尚、苏秦、杜赫之属为之谋，齐明、周冣、陈轸、邵滑、楼缓、翟景、苏厉、乐毅之徒通其意，吴起、孙膑、带他、儿良、王廖、田忌、廉颇、赵奢之伦制其兵。
尝以什倍之地，百万之师，仰关而攻秦。
秦人开关而延敌，九国之师遁逃而不敢进。
秦无亡矢遗镞之费，而天下固已困矣。
于是从散约败，争割地而赂秦。
秦有余力而制其弊，追亡逐北，伏尸百万，流血漂橹。因利乘便，宰割天下，分裂山河，强国请服，弱国入朝。
施及孝文王、庄襄王，享国之日浅，国家无事。
及至始皇，奋六世之余烈，振长策而御宇内，吞二周而亡诸侯，履至尊而制六合，执敲朴以鞭笞ī天下，威振四海。
南取百越之地，以为桂林、象郡，百越之君俯首系颈，委命下吏。
乃使蒙恬北筑长城而守藩篱，却匈奴七百余里，胡人不敢南下而牧马，士亦不敢贯弓而报怨。
于是废先王之道，燔百家之言，以愚黔首。堕名城，杀豪俊，收天下之兵聚之咸阳，销锋镝í，铸以为金人十二，以弱天下之民。
translation: 
At this time, the state of Qi has Lord Mengchang, the state of Zhao has Lord Pingyuan, the state of Chu has Lord Chunshen, and the state of Wei has Lord Xinling: these four princes are all wise, loyal and trustworthy, generous and kind-hearted and cherish talents, respect the wise and value scholars.
They agreed with each other to implement a joint vertical alliance to resist Qin and destroy Qin's alliance and horizontal strategy, and to unite relevant people from Han, Wei, Yan, Chu, Qi, Zhao, Song, Wei, Zhongshan and other countries.
So the talents of the Six Kingdoms included Ning Yue, Xu Shang, Su Qin, and Du He to plan for them; Qi Ming, Zhou Zui, Chen Zhen, Shao Hua, Lou Su, Zhai Jing, Su Li, and Leyi communicated their opinions; Wu Qi, Sun Bin, Dai Tuo, Ni Liang, Wang Liao, Tian Ji, Lian Po, and Zhao She commanded their armies.
The princes used ten times the land of Qin and an army of millions to attack Hangu Pass and attack Qin.
Qin opened the door to meet the enemy, but the armies of the nine kingdoms fled and did not dare to advance.
Qin did not waste a single arrow, but the princes in the world were exhausted.
So the alliance was dissolved, the alliance was broken, and each of them competed to cede territory to bribe Qin.
The Qin State had enough power to take advantage of the weaknesses of the princes, chase the fleeing enemies, and kill millions of their corpses, and the blood would float the big shields. The Qin State took advantage of the favorable situation and the convenient opportunity to divide the land, mountains and rivers, so the strong countries asked for submission, and the weak countries came to worship and profess their surrender.
It lasted until King Xiaowen and King Zhuang Xiang of Qin. Their reign was short and no major events happened in the country.
As far as Qin Shihuang, he carried forward the achievements passed down from six generations, whipped the princes like a chariot, annexed the two small kingdoms of Eastern Zhou and Western Zhou, annihilated the princes of the six countries, ascended the throne of emperor and controlled the world, whipped the people of the world with a cane, and frightened the world with his majesty.
They seized the land of Baiyue in the south and made it Guilin County and Xiang County. The princes of Baiyue lowered their heads, tied their necks with ropes to surrender, and put their lives in the hands of the lower-level officials of the Qin Dynasty.
So he sent Meng Tian to the north to build the Great Wall as a barrier to defend the border, and drove the Huns more than 700 miles north. The Huns did not dare to go south to herd horses, and the soldiers did not dare to set up their bows and arrows to take revenge.
So he abolished the way of governing the country and burned the works of various scholars in order to make the people ignorant. He also destroyed famous cities in various places, killed heroes, collected all the weapons in the world and concentrated them in Xianyang, melted swords and arrows, and cast them into twelve metal statues to weaken the resistance of the people of the world.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
然后践华为城，因河为池，据亿丈之城，临不测之溪以为固。
良将劲弩，守要害之处，信臣精卒，陈利兵而谁何。
天下已定，始皇之心，自以为关中之固，金城千里，子孙帝王万世之业也。
始皇既没，余威振于殊俗。
然而陈涉瓮牖绳枢之子，甿隶之人，而迁徙之徒也。
材能不及中人，非有仲尼、墨翟之贤，陶朱、猗顿之富也。蹑足行伍之间，俯仰仟佰之中，率罢散之卒，将数百之众，转而攻秦。斩木为兵，揭竿为旗，天下云集响应，赢粮而景从，山东豪俊遂并起而亡秦族矣。
且天下非小弱也。雍州之地，殽函之固自若也。
陈涉之位，非尊于齐、楚、燕、赵、韩、魏、宋、卫、中山之君也；锄耰棘矜，非铦于勾戟长铩也；适戍之众，非俦于九国之师也；深谋远虑，行军用兵之道，非及乡时之士也。
translation: 
Then rely on Huashan Mountain as a city wall, rely on the Yellow River as a moat, rely on Huashan Mountain hundreds of millions of feet high, and guard the unpredictable Yellow River as a dangerous place to guard.
Good generals hold strong bows to defend important places; reliable ministers lead capable soldiers, arrayed with sharp weapons, and strictly check who is passing by.
The world was at peace, and Qin Shihuang thought that the Guanzhong was strong, like a thousand-mile golden city, which could serve as the foundation for his descendants to be emperors for eternity.
After Qin Shihuang died, his remaining power still shocked people from afar.
However, Chen She was a son of a poor family who used broken urns as windows and tied the door shafts with straw ropes. He was a farmer, a servant, and a conscripted guard on the border.
His talents are not comparable to those of ordinary people. He is not as wise as Confucius and Mozi, nor as rich as Tao Zhu and Yidun. He is among the ranks of the garrison, rising up in the countryside, leading the tired and scattered garrison soldiers. He commanded hundreds of people and turned around to attack Qin, cutting down wooden sticks as weapons and holding high bamboo poles as flags. The people of the world gathered together quickly like wind and clouds, rose up like echoes, carried grains, and followed him like a shadow. The heroes from the east of Hangu Pass in Xiaoshan rose up together and overthrew the Qin Dynasty.
Besides, the Qin Dynasty's world has not been reduced or weakened; the land of Yongzhou and the danger of Hangu Pass in Xiaoshan are still as strong as before.
Chen She's status was no more noble than that of the kings of Qi, Chu, Yan, Zhao, Han, Song, Wei, and Zhongshan; the handles of his hoes and halberds were no sharper than those of hooked halberds and spears; the people who were recruited to guard the borders were no more powerful than the armies of the Nine Kingdoms; and his foresight, marching, and combat command skills were not as good as those of the talented men of the previous six kingdoms.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
然而成败异变，功业相反也。
尝试使山东之国与陈涉度长絜大，比权量力，则不可同年而语矣。
然而秦以区区之地，致万乘之权，抑八州而朝同列，百有余年矣。
然后以六合为家，殽函为宫。
一夫作难而七庙堕，身死人手，为天下笑者，何也？
仁义不施，而攻守之势异也。
translation: 
But success and failure are completely different; merit is completely opposite. What is the reason?
If the princes from various countries east of Mount Wei and Hangu Pass were compared with Chen She to measure their length, compare their size, compare their authority, and measure their strength, they would simply not be of the same age or be compared to each other.
However, Qin State relied on a small area to develop into a powerful state with tens of thousands of chariots, and then controlled the other eight states, causing other vassal states with the same status to come to pay homage to Qin State. This has a history of more than a hundred years.
Then regard the four directions of heaven and earth as your home, and regard Mount Wei and Hanguguan as the palace walls.
But Chen She initiated the uprising alone, and the seventh generation ancestral temple of the Qin Dynasty was destroyed. Even the prince of Qin died in the hands of others and was ridiculed by everyone in the world. What is the reason?
This is because the situation of conquering the world without practicing benevolent government is different from that of defending the world later.


