Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 2, 2, 8]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
成皇帝讳衍，字世根，明帝长子也。
太宁三年三月戊辰，立为皇太子。
闰月戊子，明帝崩。
己丑，太子即皇帝位，大赦，增文武位二等，赐鳏寡孤老帛，人二匹，尊皇后庾氏为皇太后。
秋九月癸卯，皇太后临朝称制。
司徒王导录尚书事，与中书令庾亮参辅朝政。
以抚军将军、南顿王宗为骠骑将军，领军将军、汝南王祐为卫将军。
辛丑，葬明帝于武平陵。
冬十一月癸巳朔，日有蚀之。广陵相曹浑有罪，下狱死。
咸和元年春二月丁亥，大赦，改元，大酺五日，赐鳏寡孤老米，二人斛，京师百里内复一年。
夏四月，石勒遣其将石生寇汝南，汝南人执内史祖济以叛。
甲子，尚书左仆射邓攸卒。
五月，大水。
六月癸亥，使持节、散骑常侍、监淮北诸军事、北中郎将、徐州刺史、泉陵公刘遐卒。
癸酉，以车骑将军郗鉴领徐州刺史，征虏将军郭默为北中郎将、假节、监淮北诸军。
刘遐部曲将李龙、史迭奉遐子肇代遐位以距默，临淮太守刘矫击破之，斩龙，传首京师。
秋七月癸丑，使持节、都督江州诸军事、江州刺史、平南将军、观阳伯应詹卒。
八月，以给事中、前将军、丹阳尹温峤为平南将军、假节、都督，江州刺史。
九月，旱。
李雄将张龙寇涪陵，执太守谢俊。
冬十月，封魏武帝玄孙曹励为陈留王，以绍魏。
丙寅，卫将军、汝南王祐薨。
己巳，封皇弟岳为吴王。
车骑将军、南顿王宗有罪，伏诛，贬其族为马氏。
免太宰、西阳王羕，降为弋阳县王。
庚辰，赦百里内五岁以下刑。
是月，刘曜将黄秀、帛成寇酂，平北将军魏该帅众奔襄阳。
translation: 
Emperor Cheng's name was Sima Yan, whose courtesy name was Shigen. He was the eldest son of Emperor Ming Sima Shao.
On the second day of March in the third year of Taining, he was established as the crown prince.
On the twenty-fifth day of the eighth month, Emperor Ming died.
On the 26th, the prince became emperor, granted a general amnesty to the world, increased the title of civil and military officials to the second level, gave widows, widowers, orphans and old people two pieces of cloth each, and honored the queen Yu as the empress dowager.
On the ninth day of September, the Empress Dowager came to the court to act as the emperor.
Situ Wang directed the affairs of the ministers and participated in the affairs of the court together with Zhongshu Ling Yu Liang.
He appointed Sima Zong, the general of the Fu army and King of Nanton, as the hussar general, and the leading general, Sima Wei, the king of Runan.
On the 11th, Emperor Ming was buried in Wuping Mausoleum.
On the first day of November, there is a solar eclipse. Cao Hun, the prime minister of Guangling, was guilty and was imprisoned and died.
On the twenty-seventh day of the second month of the second month in the first year of Xianhe, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the new year's title was adopted. A banquet was held for five days. The widows, widows and orphans were given old rice and grain, two huks per person, and the corvée tax was exempted for one year within a hundred miles of the capital.
In April, Shi Le sent his general Shi Sheng to invade Runan, and the Runan people seized Neishi Zuji and rebelled.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Shangshu Zuopu shot Deng You to death.
In May, there was a flood.
On the fifth day of the sixth lunar month, Liu Xia, the envoy Chijie, Sanqi Changshi, supervisor of Huaibei military affairs, Beizhong Langjiang, Xuzhou governor, and Quanling Gong Liu Xia died.
On the 15th, Xi Jian, the chariot and cavalry general, led the governor of Xuzhou, and Guo Mo, the conscript general, was appointed as Beizhonglang general to supervise all the armies in Huaibei.
Liu Xia's generals Li Long and Shi Die supported Liu Xia's son Liu Zhao to replace Liu Xia in order to resist Guo Mo. Liu Jiao, the prefect of Linhuai, defeated them, beheaded Li Long, and sent his head to the capital.
On July 25th, the envoy Chijie, the military commander of Jiangzhou, the governor of Jiangzhou, General Pingnan, and the Marquis of Guanyang County Yingzhan died.
In August, Yi Shizhong, the former general, Danyang Yin Wenqiao was appointed as the general of Pingnan, the governor of Jijie, and the governor of Jiangzhou.
September, severe drought.
Li Xiong's general Zhang Long invaded Fuling and captured the prefect Xie Jun.
In October, Cao Mai, the great-great-grandson of Emperor Wu of Wei, was granted the title of King Chenliu to inherit the Wei state.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, General Wei and King Sima of Runan died.
On the 13th, Sima Yue, the emperor's younger brother, was granted the title of King of Wu.
Sima Zong, the cavalry general and king of Nanton, was found guilty and executed. His family was demoted to the Ma family.
He deposed Dazai and Sima, King of Xiyang, and demoted him to King of Yiyang County.
24. Amnesty for those sentenced to imprisonment of not more than five years within a hundred miles of the capital.
This month, Liu Yao's generals Huang Xiu and Bo Cheng invaded the Zanli territory, and Pingbei general Wei Gai led his troops to Xiangyang.
summary:
Emperor Cheng, named Sima Yan (courtesy name Shigen), was the eldest son of Emperor Ming. He was established as crown prince in the third year of Taining and became emperor following his father's death. He honored Queen Yu as Empress Dowager, who acted as regent. Situ Wang directed ministers' affairs alongside Zhongshu Ling Yu Liang. During his reign, the empire faced numerous challenges including solar eclipses, floods, droughts, famines, and rebellions. The Xianhe era began with a general amnesty and tax exemptions. Shi Le's forces repeatedly invaded, with generals like Shi Sheng attacking Runan. Internal rebellions erupted, including Liu Xia's generals supporting his son Liu Zhao to resist Guo Mo. Various military officials died or were appointed to new positions. The period saw severe droughts, earthquakes, and the execution of Sima Zong, King of Nanton, for guilt. Liu Yao's generals invaded Zanli territory, while Shi Le's general Shi Cong attacked Shouyang unsuccessfully.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
假领军将军卞壸节，帅六军，及峻战于西陵，王师败绩。
丙辰，峻攻青溪栅，因风纵火，王师又大败。
尚书令、领军将军卞壸，丹阳尹羊曼，黄门侍郎周导，庐江太守陶瞻并遇害，死者数千人。
庾亮又败于宣阳门内，遂携其诸弟与郭默、赵胤奔寻阳。
于是司徒王导、右光禄大夫陆晔、荀崧等卫帝于太极殿，太常孔愉守宗庙。
贼乘胜麾戈接于帝座，突入太后后宫，左右侍人皆见掠夺。
是时太官唯有烧余米数石，以供御膳。
百姓号泣，响震都邑。
丁巳，峻矫诏大赦，又以祖约为侍中、太尉、尚书令，自为骠骑将军、录尚书事。
吴郡太守庾冰奔于会稽。
三月丙子，皇太后庾氏崩。
夏四月，石勒攻宛，南阳太守王国叛，降于勒。
壬申，葬明穆皇后于武平陵。
五月乙未，峻逼迁天子于石头，帝哀泣升车，宫中恸哭。
峻以仓屋为宫，遣管商、张瑾、弘徽寇晋陵，韩晃寇义兴。
吴兴太守虞潭与庚冰、王舒等起义兵于三吴。
丙午，征西大将军陶侃、平南将军温峤、护军将军庾亮、平北将军魏该舟军四万，次于蔡洲。
六月，韩晃攻宣城，内史桓彝力战，死之。
壬辰，平北将军、雍州刺史魏该卒于师。
庐江太守毛宝攻贼合肥戍，拔之。
秋七月，祖约为石勒将石聪所攻，众溃，奔于历阳。
石勒将石季龙攻刘曜于蒲坂。
八月，曜及石季龙战于高候，季龙败绩，曜遂围石生于洛阳。
九月戊申，司徒王导奔于白石。
庚午，陶侃使督护杨谦攻峻于石头。
温峤、庾亮阵于白石，竟陵太守李阳距贼南偏。
峻轻骑出战，坠马，斩之，众遂大溃。
贼党复立峻弟逸为帅。
前交州刺史张琏据始兴反，进攻广州，镇南司马曾勰等击破之。
冬十月，李雄将张龙寇涪陵，太守赵弼没于贼。
十二月乙未，石勒败刘曜于洛阳，获之。
是岁，石勒将石季龙攻氐帅蒲洪于陇山，降之。
四年春正月，帝在石头，贼将匡术以苑城归顺，百官赴焉。
侍中钟雅、右卫将军刘超谋奉帝出，为贼所害。
戊辰，冠军将军赵胤遣将甘苗讨祖约于历阳，败之，约奔于石勒，其将牵腾帅众降。
峻子硕攻台城，又焚太极东堂、秘阁，皆尽。
城中大饥，米斗万钱。
translation: 
The imperial court appointed the leading general Sima You, King of Runan, as the general of the guard. Bian Hujie led the six armies and fought with Su Jun in Xiling. The king's army was defeated.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Su Jun attacked Qingxizha and set fire to it. Wang's army was defeated again.
Bian Hu, the leading general of Shangshu Ling, Yin Yangman of Danyang, Zhou Dao, the minister of Huangmen, and Tao Zhan, the prefect of Lujiang, were all killed. Thousands of people died.
Yu Liang failed again at Xuanyang Gate, so he took his younger brother, Guo Mo, and Zhao Yin and fled to Xunyang.
So Situ Wangdao, Youguanglu doctor Lu Ye, Xun Song and others guarded the emperor in the Taiji Hall, and the prefect Kong Yu guarded the ancestral temple.
Taking advantage of the victory, Su Jun and other thieves approached the imperial palace and broke into the Queen Mother's harem. All the attendants on the left and right were plundered.
At this time, the eunuch could only use the remaining few stones of rice to cook rice for the royal family.
The people howled and cried, and the sound shook the city.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, Su Jun falsely issued an edict of amnesty to the world, and appointed his ancestors as Shizhong, Taiwei, and Shangshu Ling. He appointed himself General of Hussars and recorded Shangshu affairs.
Yu Bing, the governor of Wu County, fled to Kuaiji.
On March 22, Empress Dowager Yu passed away.
In April, Shi Le attacked Wandi, and the Nanyang Prefecture Kingdom rebelled and surrendered to Shi Le.
On the 24th, Queen Mingmu was buried in Wuping Mausoleum.
On May 18th, Su Jun threatened the emperor to move to Stone City. The emperor got into the car and cried sadly, and the palace was wailing.
Su Jun used the warehouse as his palace, and sent Guan Shang, Zhang Jian, and Hong Hui to invade Jinling, and Han Huang invaded Yixing.
Yu Tan, the governor of Wuxing, Yu Bing, Wang Shu and others launched a rebellion in Sanwu.
On the 29th, Tao Kan, the general who conquered the west, Wen Qiao, the general of Pingnan, Yu Liang, the general of the army guard, and Wei Gai, the general of Pingbei, led 40,000 naval troops and stationed themselves in Caizhou.
In June, Han Huang attacked Xuancheng, and Neishi Huanyi fought hard and died.
On the 15th, General Pingbei and Governor of Yongzhou Wei died in the army.
Mao Bao, the governor of Lujiang, attacked the thieves garrisoning Hefei and captured Hefei.
In the seventh month, Zuyue was attacked by Shi Le's general Shi Cong, and his troops dispersed and fled to Liyang.
Shi Le's general Shi Jilong attacked Liu Yao in Puban.
In August, Liu Yao and Shi Jilong fought in Gaohou, and Shi Jilong was defeated. Liu Yao then besieged Shi Sheng in Luoyang.
On the third day of September, Director Situ Wang fled to Baishi.
On the 25th, Tao Kan asked the governor Yang Qian to attack Su Jun who was defending Stone City.
Wen Qiao and Yu Liang formed a formation at Baishi, and Li Yang, the prefect of Jingling, resisted the bandits' southward division.
Su Jun led his light cavalry into battle, fell off his horse and was beheaded, causing his troops to disperse.
The bandits appointed Su Jun's younger brother Su Yi as their leader.
Zhang Lian, the former governor of Jiaozhou, occupied Shixing and rebelled, attacking Guangzhou. Zhennan Sima Zeng Xie and others defeated him.
In October, Li Xiong's general Zhang Long invaded Fuling, and the prefect Zhao Bi was killed by the thieves.
On December 21, Shi Le defeated Liu Yao in Luoyang and captured him alive.
This year, Shi Le's general Shi Jilong attacked the Di leader Pu Hong in Longshan, and Pu Hong surrendered.
In the first month of the fourth year of Xianhe's reign, the emperor was in Shitucheng. The bandit general Kuangshu surrendered to Xianyuan City, and all the officials rushed there.
Attendant Zhong Ya and right guard general Liu Chao planned to leave the city for the emperor, but were killed by thieves.
On the 25th, the champion general Zhao Yin sent Gan Miao to Liyang to conquer Zu Yue and defeated Zu Yue. Zu Yue defected to Shi Le, and his general Tian Teng surrendered with his troops.
Su Jun's son Su Shuo attacked Taicheng and burned the East Hall and Secret Pavilion of Tai Chi Hall, turning them all into ashes.
There was a great famine in the city, and a bushel of rice was worth ten thousand yuan.
summary:
The rebellion of Zu Yue and Su Jun in the second year of Xianhe proved devastating. Su Jun's forces massacred Yuhu, and multiple kings defected to him. The capital was placed under martial law. Yu Liang and others fought Su Jun at Cihu, suffering defeat. The following year, Su Jun crossed the Hengjiang River, attacked the capital, and burned Qingxizha. Many officials were killed, and Yu Liang fled to Xunyang. Su Jun forced the emperor to move to Stone City, causing great suffering. Empress Dowager Yu died during this turmoil. The rebellion was eventually suppressed. Various armies attacked Shitou, and Su Jun was beheaded after falling from his horse. His brother Su Yi became the new rebel leader but was later captured. The palace was reduced to ashes, and Jianpingyuan was used as the imperial residence. Liu Yao was captured alive by Shi Le. The empire continued facing challenges including Shi Jilong's attacks, Li Xiong's invasions, and natural disasters like floods and comets.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
未能阐融政道。翦除逋昆，夙夜战兢，匪遑宁处。
今遘疾殆不兴，是用震悼于厥心。
千龄眇眇，未堪艰难。
司徒、琅邪王岳，亲则母弟，体则仁长，君人之风，允塞时望。
肆尔王公卿士，其辅之！
以祗奉祖宗明祀，协和内外，允执其中。
呜呼，敬之哉！
无坠祖宗之显命。
壬辰，引武陵王晞、会稽王昱、中书监庾冰、中书令何充、尚书令诸葛恢并受顾命。
癸巳，帝崩于西堂，时年二十二，葬兴平陵，庙号显宗。
帝少而聪敏，有成人之量。
南顿王宗之诛也，帝不之知，及苏峻平，问庾亮曰： 常日白头公何在？
亮对以谋反伏诛，帝泣谓亮曰： 舅言人作贼，便杀之，人言舅作贼，复若何？
亮惧，变色。
庾怿尝送酒于江州刺史王允之，允之与犬，犬毙，惧而表之。
帝怒曰： 大舅已乱天下，小舅复欲尔邪？
怿闻，饮药而死。
然少为舅氏所制，不亲庶政。
及长，颇留心万机，务在简约，常欲于后园作射堂，计用四十金，以劳费乃止。
雄武之度，虽有愧于前王；恭俭之德，足追踪于住烈矣。
康皇帝讳岳，字世同，成帝母弟也。
咸和元年封吴王，二年徙封琅邪王；九年拜散骑常侍，加骠骑将军，咸康五年迁侍中、司徒。
八年六月庚寅，成帝不豫，诏以琅邪王为嗣。
癸巳，成帝崩。
甲午，即皇帝位，大赦。
诸屯戍文武及二千石官长，不得辄离所局而来奔赴。
translation: 
He failed to establish a harmonious political system and eliminate disasters. He was wary day and night and had no time to live in peace.
Now that I am suffering from an illness, I may not be able to recover, so I am very frightened and sad.
A thousand years is so far away that I cannot bear its hardships.
Situ, King Langya and King Sima Yue were brothers from the same mother according to their close relationship. They were benevolent and virtuous, and they had the style of a human king and enjoyed great prestige at that time.
All you princes and ministers, please assist him!
In order to worship the ancestors, both inside and outside the Xiehe court, his words and deeds are in line with the principles of justice.
well! Be respectful!
Don't destroy the beautiful order of your ancestors.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, Sima Xi, the king of Wuling, Sima Yu, the king of Kuaiji, Yu Bing, the eunuch of the Zhongshu, He Chong, the Ling of the Zhongshu, and Zhuge Hui, the minister of the Shangshu, all accepted the decree.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, the emperor died in the West Hall at the age of twenty-two. He was buried in the Xingping Mausoleum, and the temple name was pronounced.
Emperor Cheng was smart when he was young and had the capacity of an adult.
When Sima Zong, the king of Nanton, was executed, Emperor Cheng didn't know. After Su Jun's rebellion subsided, Emperor Cheng asked Yu Liang: Where is the old white-headed man?
Yu Liang replied that he was killed for treason. Emperor Cheng cried to Yu Liang and said: If my uncle accuses someone of being a thief, he will kill him. What should he do if someone else accuses him of being a thief?
Yu Liang was so scared that his face changed color.
Yu Yi once sent wine to Wang Yunzhi, the governor of Jiangzhou, and allowed him to feed a dog. The dog was poisoned to death, and his fear was expressed on the ground.
Emperor Cheng said angrily: "My uncle has brought trouble to the world, what about my younger uncle?"
After hearing this, Yu Yi drank the medicine and died.
However, he was restricted by his uncle when he was young and could not personally handle various political affairs.
When I got older, I paid close attention to national affairs and strived to be simple. I once wanted to build a shooting hall in the back garden. I calculated that it would cost forty gold, but I stopped because it was a waste of money.
Although Emperor Cheng's majestic and mighty weapons were not as good as those of previous emperors, his virtues of respect and frugality were enough to track the heroes of previous generations.
Emperor Kang, whose name was Sima Yue and whose courtesy name was Shitong, was the younger brother of Emperor Cheng.
In the first year of Xianhe, he was granted the title of King of Wu, and in the second year of his reign, he was posthumously named King of Langxie; Jiuwei was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi, plus a general of Hussar; in the fifth year of Xiankang, he was promoted to Shizhong and Situ.
In the sixth month of the eighth year of Geng Yin, Emperor Cheng became unwell and issued an edict to name King Langxie as his successor.
Guiji, Emperor Cheng died.
In the Jiawu period, Emperor Kang ascended the throne and ruled the world.
Fangwu generals and local county governors stationed in various places are not allowed to leave their posts without authorization and come to attend the funeral.
summary:
Emperor Cheng died at age twenty-two. He was described as intelligent in youth but restricted by his uncle's influence. He showed concern for frugality, once stopping construction of a shooting hall due to cost. Emperor Kang, named Sima Yue (courtesy name Shitong), was Emperor Cheng's younger brother. He was initially made King of Wu, then King of Langxie, and served as Situ before being named successor. He ascended the throne after Emperor Cheng's death, entrusting Yu Bing and He Chong with government affairs. His reign saw continued conflicts with Shi Jilong and Li Shou, as well as military campaigns by various generals. Emperor Kang died at age twenty-three and was buried in Chongping Mausoleum.

