Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 2, 4, 6, 0]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
吕太后者，高祖微时妃也，生孝惠帝、女鲁元太后。
及高祖为汉王，得定陶戚姬，爱幸，生赵隐王如意。
孝惠为人仁弱，高祖以为不类我，常欲废太子，立戚姬子如意，如意类我。
戚姬幸，常从上之关东，日夜啼泣，欲立其子代太子。
吕后年长，常留守，希见上，益疏。
如意立为赵王後，几代太子者数矣，赖大臣争之，及留侯策，太子得毋废。
吕后为人刚毅，佐高祖定天下，所诛大臣多吕后力。
吕后兄二人，皆为将。
长兄周吕侯死事，封其子吕台为郦侯，子产为交侯；次兄吕释之为建成侯。
高祖十二年四月甲辰，崩长乐宫，太子袭号为帝。
是时高祖八子：长男肥，孝惠兄也，异母，肥为齐王；馀皆孝惠弟，戚姬子如意为赵王，薄夫人子恆为代王，诸姬子子恢为梁王，子友为淮阳王，子长为淮南王，子建为燕王。
高祖弟交为楚王，兄子濞为吴王。
非刘氏功臣番君吴芮子臣为长沙王。
吕后最怨戚夫人及其子赵王，乃令永巷囚戚夫人，而召赵王。
使者三反，赵相建平侯周昌谓使者曰： 高帝属臣赵王，赵王年少。
窃闻太后怨戚夫人，欲召赵王并诛之，臣不敢遣王。
王且亦病，不能奉诏。
吕后大怒，乃使人召赵相。
赵相徵至长安，乃使人复召赵王。
王来，未到。
孝惠帝慈仁，知太后怒，自迎赵王霸上，与入宫，自挟与赵王起居饮食。
太后欲杀之，不得间。
孝惠元年十二月，帝晨出射。
赵王少，不能蚤起。
太后闻其独居，使人持酖饮之。
犁明，孝惠还，赵王已死。
於是乃徙淮阳王友为赵王。
夏，诏赐郦侯父追谥为令武侯。
translation: 
Empress Dowager Lu was Gaozu's humble wife and gave birth to Emperor Xiaohui and his daughter, Empress Dowager Lu Yuan.
When Emperor Gaozu became the king of Han, he found Qi Ji in Dingtao. He loved her very much and gave birth to King Ruyi of Zhao Yin.
Emperor Xiaohui was kind and weak, but Gaozu thought he was not like him, so he often wanted to depose the prince and make Qi Ji's son Ruyi, thinking that Ruyi was similar to himself.
Qi Ji was favored and often followed Emperor Gaozu to Guandong. She cried day and night and wanted to make her son the crown prince to replace the original crown prince.
Empress Lu was getting older and often stayed behind. She rarely saw Gaozu, and their relationship became increasingly estranged.
Ruyi was granted the title of Queen Zhao, and almost replaced the prince many times. Fortunately, the ministers' remonstrances and Liu Hou's strategy prevented the prince from being abolished.
Empress Lu was a strong and resolute person. She assisted Emperor Gaozu in pacifying the world and killing ministers, mostly thanks to Empress Lu.
Empress Lu had two older brothers, both of whom were generals.
The eldest brother Zhou Luhou died in the line of duty, and his sons Lu Tai were granted the title of Lihou, Lu Chan was granted the title of Jiaohou; the second brother Lu Shizhi was granted the title of Jiancheng Marquis.
On April 25, the twelfth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, he died in Changle Palace. The prince inherited the title of Emperor Gaozu and succeeded him as emperor.
At this time, Emperor Gaozu had eight sons: the eldest son Liu Fei, who was the brother of Emperor Xiaohui and had a different mother than Emperor Xiaohui, was named King of Qi; the rest were younger brothers of Emperor Xiaohui. Liu Ruyi, the son of Qi Ji, was named King of Zhao, Mrs. Bo's son Liu Heng was named King of Dai, the other sons of Ji's concubines were Liu Huifeng, King of Liang, Liu Youfeng, King of Huaiyang, Liu Changfeng, King of Huainan, and Liu Jianfeng, King of Yan.
Gaozu's younger brother Liu Jiao was granted the title of King of Chu, and his elder brother's son Liu Bi was granted the title of King of Wu.
Wu Chen, the son of Fan Jun Wu Rui, a hero who was not a descendant of the Liu family, was granted the title of King of Changsha.
Empress Lu resented Madam Qi and her son King Zhao the most, so she ordered Madam Qi to be imprisoned in Yongxiang, and summoned King Zhao to the capital.
The envoy went back and forth several times. Zhao Xiang Jianpinghou Zhou Chang said to the envoy: Emperor Gao entrusted King Zhao to me. King Zhao is still young.
I heard that the Queen Mother resented Mrs. Qi and wanted to summon King Zhao to kill him together. I dare not send King Zhao away.
Moreover, King Zhao was also ill and could not go there according to the imperial edict.
Empress Lu was furious and sent someone to summon Prime Minister Zhao to the capital.
When Prime Minister Zhao was summoned to Chang'an, he sent someone to summon King Zhao again.
King Zhao came and had not yet reached the capital.
Emperor Xiaohui was kind and knew that the Queen Mother was angry, so he went to Ba Shang to greet King Zhao in person, and returned to the palace with King Zhao, where he ate and lived with King Zhao.
The Queen Mother wanted to kill King Zhao, but could not find a chance.
In December of the first year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, Emperor Xiaohui went out to hunt in the morning.
King Zhao is young and cannot get up early.
The queen mother heard that King Zhao was alone at home, so she sent someone to give him poisoned wine to drink.
When Emperor Xiaohui returned at dawn, King Zhao was already dead.
So Liu You, the king of Huaiyang, was moved to the throne of Zhao.
In the summer, an edict was issued to pursue Yi Lihou's father as Lingwuhou.
summary:
Empress Dowager Lu was the humble wife of Emperor Gaozu and mother of Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan. Gaozu favored Concubine Qi, who bore King Ruyi of Zhao, and often considered deposing the kind and weak Crown Prince Xiaohui in favor of Ruyi. Empress Lu, growing estranged from Gaozu, was resolute and assisted in pacifying the realm and killing ministers. After Gaozu's death in 195 BCE, Xiaohui succeeded him. Empress Lu resented Concubine Qi and King Ruyi. She imprisoned Concubine Qi and summoned Ruyi to the capital. Emperor Xiaohui protected Ruyi, but during a hunt, the Queen Mother poisoned Ruyi. She then mutilated Concubine Qi, calling her a "human pig." Xiaohui, horrified, fell ill and abandoned court affairs, dying in 188 BCE. During his funeral, the Queen Mother cried without tears until ministers, following advice, appointed Lu family members as generals, securing her power. The ministers, fearing the young emperor was not truly Xiaohui's son, chose Liu Heng, King of Dai, as emperor due to his maturity and virtue. He became Emperor Xiaowen, reigning for 23 years. The historian notes that during Empress Lu's rule, the people recovered from war, punishments were rare, and agriculture flourished, despite her cruelty and nepotism.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
元年，号令一出太后。
太后称制，议欲立诸吕为王，问右丞相王陵。
王陵曰： 高帝刑白马盟曰 非刘氏而王，天下共击之 。
今王吕氏，非约也。
太后不说。
问左丞相陈平、绛侯周勃。
勃等对曰： 高帝定天下，王子弟，今太后称制，王昆弟诸吕，无所不可。
太后喜，罢朝。
王陵让陈平、绛侯曰： 始与高帝啑血盟，诸君不在邪？
今高帝崩，太后女主，欲王吕氏，诸君从欲阿意背约，何面目见高帝地下？
陈平、绛侯曰： 於今面折廷争，臣不如君；夫全社稷，定刘氏之後，君亦不如臣。
王陵无以应之。
十一月，太后欲废王陵，乃拜为帝太傅，夺之相权。
王陵遂病免归。
乃以左丞相平为右丞相，以辟阳侯审食其为左丞相。
左丞相不治事，令监宫中，如郎中令。
食其故得幸太后，常用事，公卿皆因而决事。
乃追尊郦侯父为悼武王，欲以王诸吕为渐。
四月，太后欲侯诸吕，乃先封高祖之功臣郎中令无择为博城侯。
鲁元公主薨，赐谥为鲁元太后。
子偃为鲁王。
鲁王父，宣平侯张敖也。
封齐悼惠王子章为硃虚侯，以吕禄女妻之。
齐丞相寿为平定侯。
少府延为梧侯。
乃封吕种为沛侯，吕平为扶柳侯，张买为南宫侯。
太后欲王吕氏，先立孝惠後宫子彊为淮阳王，子不疑为常山王，子山为襄城侯，子朝为轵侯，子武为壶关侯。
太后风大臣，大臣请立郦侯吕台为吕王，太后许之。
建成康侯释之卒，嗣子有罪，废，立其弟吕禄为胡陵侯，续康侯後。
translation: 
In the first year, all orders from the imperial court came from the Queen Mother.
The mother-in-law is exercising the authority of the emperor and intends to make the Lu family's children kings. She first inquires about the royal mausoleum of the right prime minister.
Wang Ling said: Emperor Gao killed the white horse and swore an oath with the ministers: If he is not a descendant of the Liu family and becomes king, everyone in the world will destroy him.
It is against the oath to make a descendant of the Lu family king now.
The Queen Mother was very unhappy.
Ask Zuo Prime Minister Chen Ping and Jianghou Zhou Bo.
Zhou Bo and others replied: Emperor Gao brought peace to the world and made his children kings. Now that the Queen Mother is in charge of the court, she can make her brothers and the children of the Lu family kings. There is nothing wrong with that.
The Queen Mother became happy and returned to the palace.
Wang Ling scolded Chen Ping and Jianghou, saying: Were you not present when we made a blood oath with Emperor Gao?
Now that Emperor Gao is dead, the Queen Mother comes to court as a heroine and intends to make the children of the Lu family kings. Even if you want to flatter and break your oath, how can you have the face to go to Jiuquan to see Emperor Gao after your death?
Chen Ping and Jianghou said: "Today we openly oppose in front of the Queen Mother and fight hard in the court, we are not as good as you; when it comes to protecting the country and stabilizing the kingship of Liu's descendants, you are not as good as us."
Wang Ling was speechless.
In November, the Queen Mother wanted to depose Wang Ling, so she made him the emperor's tutor and deprived him of his powers as prime minister.
Therefore, Wang Ling claimed that he was ill and was dismissed from office and returned home.
Then Chen Ping, the prime minister of the left, was made the prime minister of the right, and Marquis Piyang Shenshi was made the prime minister of the left.
Prime Minister Zuo did not manage government affairs and asked him to supervise the affairs of the palace, just like a doctor.
Therefore, Shen Shiqi was favored by the Queen Mother and often made decisions on government affairs. The ministers relied on him to decide important matters.
Then he pursued Li Hou's father as the King of Wuwu, intending to use this as the beginning of making the Lu family's children kings.
In April, the Queen Mother planned to make the children of the Lu family a marquis, so she first made Feng Wuze, a great minister of the Great Ancestor, the Marquis of Bocheng.
Princess Lu Yuan died and was given the posthumous title of Queen Mother Lu Yuan.
Her son was named King of Lu.
The father of King Lu was Zhang Ao, Marquis of Xuanping.
Liu Zhang, the son of King Hui of Qi, was granted the title of Zhu Xuhou, and Lu Lu's daughter was married to him.
Prime Minister Qi Shou was granted the title of Marquis of Pingding.
Yang Chengyan of Shaofu was granted the title of Wuhou.
Then they named Lu Zhong as Peihou, Lu Ping as Fuliuhou, and Zhang Mai as Nangonghou.
The Queen Mother wanted to make Lu's children kings, so she first made Liu Qiang, the son of Emperor Xiaohui's harem, the King of Huaiyang, Liu Buyi the King of Changshan, Liu Shan the Marquis of Xiangcheng, Liu Chao the Marquis of Zhi, and Liu Wu the Marquis of Huguan.
The Empress Dowager signaled to the ministers in a low voice, and the ministers requested that Li Hou Lutai be granted the title of King Lu, and the Empress Dowager agreed.
After the death of Lu Shizhi, Marquis of Kang in Jiancheng, his son who had inherited the title was found guilty and was deposed. His younger brother Lu Lu was granted the title of Marquis of Huling and succeeded Kang Marquis.
summary:
The Queen Mother then ruled as regent, intending to make Lu family members kings. She consulted ministers; Wang Ling opposed, citing Gaozu's oath, while Chen Ping and Zhou Bo supported her. She deposed Wang Ling and promoted Chen Ping. She made Lu Tai King of Lu, and after his death, Lu Jia succeeded. She also made several of Xiaohui's sons kings, though they were not his biological children. The Queen Mother deposed and killed a young emperor who threatened rebellion, replacing him with Liu Yi, renamed Hong.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
赵王至，置邸不见，令卫围守之，弗与食。
其群臣或窃馈，辄捕论之，赵王饿，乃歌曰： 诸吕用事兮刘氏危，迫胁王侯兮彊授我妃。
我妃既妒兮诬我以恶，谗女乱国兮上曾不寤。
我无忠臣兮何故弃国？
自决中野兮苍天举直！
于嗟不可悔兮宁蚤自财。
为王而饿死兮谁者怜之！
吕氏绝理兮讬天报仇。
丁丑，赵王幽死，以民礼葬之长安民冢次。
己丑，日食，昼晦。
太后恶之，心不乐，乃谓左右曰： 此为我也。
二月，徙梁王恢为赵王。
吕王产徙为梁王，梁王不之国，为帝太傅。
立皇子平昌侯太为吕王。
更名梁曰吕，吕曰济川。
太后女弟吕嬃有女为营陵侯刘泽妻，泽为大将军。
太后王诸吕，恐即崩後刘将军为害，乃以刘泽为琅邪王，以慰其心。
梁王恢之徙王赵，心怀不乐。
太后以吕产女为赵王后。
王后从官皆诸吕，擅权，微伺赵王，赵王不得自恣。
王有所爱姬，王后使人酖杀之。
王乃为歌诗四章，令乐人歌之。
王悲，六月即自杀。
太后闻之，以为王用妇人弃宗庙礼，废其嗣。
宣平侯张敖卒，以子偃为鲁王，敖赐谥为鲁元王。
秋，太后使使告代王，欲徙王赵。
代王谢，原守代边。
太傅产、丞相平等言，武信侯吕禄上侯，位次第一，请立为赵王。
太后许之，追尊禄父康侯为赵昭王。
九月，燕灵王建薨，有美人子，太后使人杀之，无後，国除。
translation: 
King Zhao came to the capital and placed him in his official residence. He did not receive him and ordered his guards to surround him and deny him anything to eat.
Some of his subordinates secretly brought him food, and they were arrested and tried for crimes. King Zhao was hungry, so he sang: "Zhu Lu has the power, the Liu family is in danger; you are coercing the princes, forcing me to marry the Lu family's daughter as my concubine."
My concubine is jealous and slanders me for committing a crime; she slanders my daughter and brings chaos to the country, but the emperor doesn't understand.
I have no loyal ministers, otherwise why would I lose my feudal kingdom?
In the wilderness of suicide, Heaven must uphold justice in its affairs!
Alas, I have no regrets. I would rather kill myself as soon as possible.
I starve to death for the sake of the king, who has mercy on me?
Lu is unreasonable and has no choice but to ask God to avenge me.
On the 18th, King Zhao was imprisoned and died, and he was buried next to the graves of the people of Chang'an using the etiquette of ordinary people.
On the 30th, there was a solar eclipse and the day was dark.
The Queen Mother was disgusted and unhappy, so she said to the attendants: "It must be because of me."
In February, Liu Hui, the king of Liang, became the king of Zhao.
King Lu Lu Chan moved to the throne and became King Liang. King Liang did not go to the feudal state to take office, but stayed in the capital as the emperor's tutor.
The emperor's son Liu Tai, Marquis of Changping, was made King Lu.
Liang was renamed Lu, and Lu was renamed Jichuan.
The Queen Mother's sister Lu Yu had a daughter who was the wife of Liu Ze, the Marquis of Yingling, who was a general.
The Empress Dowager conferred the title of king on a descendant of the Lu family. She was afraid that General Liu would cause chaos after her death, so she named Liu Ze King Langxie to comfort him.
Liu Hui, the king of Liang, was moved to the state of Zhao and became king. He was very unhappy.
The Queen Mother took Lu Chan's daughter as King Zhao's queen.
The queen's attendant officials are all members of the Lu family. They use their power exclusively to spy on King Zhao, but King Zhao cannot do whatever he wants.
King Zhao had a beloved concubine, and the queen sent someone to kill her with poisoned wine.
So King Zhao composed four chapters of poetry and asked the musicians to sing.
King Zhao was deeply saddened and committed suicide in June.
When the Queen Mother heard about this, she thought that King Zhao had abandoned the ancestral ethics for women and would no longer allow his descendants to inherit the throne.
Zhang Ao, Marquis of Xuanping, died. Because his son Zhang Yan was the King of Lu, Zhang Ao was given the posthumous title of King Lu Yuan.
In autumn, the Queen Mother sent an envoy to tell King Dai that she wanted to move him to Zhao to become king.
King Dai declined, hoping to guard the borders of Dai's country.
Grand Tutor Lu Chan and Prime Minister Chen Ping all said that Marquis Lu Lu of Wu Xin was in the highest position and ranked first in the order. Please make him the King of Zhao.
The Queen Mother agreed and honored Lu Lu's father, Kanghou, as King Zhao Zhao.
In September, King Liu Jian of Yan Ling died. He had a son born from beauty. The Queen Mother sent people to kill the son. King Yan Ling had no heirs and the kingdom was abolished.
summary:
The Queen Mother continued to consolidate Lu power, killing or deposing several Zhao kings, including Liu You, who starved to death after opposing the Lu family. She made Lu Lu King of Zhao and Lu Chan King of Liang. In 180 BCE, she fell ill and warned Lu Chan and Lu Lu to control the army, fearing rebellion. She died, leaving edicts for rewards and amnesty.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
悼惠王薨，孝惠帝使留侯良立臣为齐王。
孝惠崩，高后用事，春秋高，听诸吕，擅废帝更立，又比杀三赵王，灭梁、赵、燕以王诸吕，分齐为四。
忠臣进谏，上惑乱弗听。
今高后崩，而帝春秋富，未能治天下，固恃大臣诸侯。而诸吕又擅自尊官，聚兵严威，劫列侯忠臣，矫制以令天下，宗庙所以危。
寡人率兵入诛不当为王者。
汉闻之，相国吕产等乃遣颍阴侯灌婴将兵击之。
灌婴至荥阳，乃谋曰： 诸吕权兵关中，欲危刘氏而自立。
今我破齐还报，此益吕氏之资也。
乃留屯荥阳，使使谕齐王及诸侯，与连和，以待吕氏变，共诛之。
齐王闻之，乃还兵西界待约。
吕禄、吕产欲发乱关中，内惮绛侯、硃虚等，外畏齐、楚兵，又恐灌婴畔之，欲待灌婴兵与齐合而发，犹豫未决。
当是时，济川王太、淮阳王武、常山王朝名为少帝弟，及鲁元王吕后外孙，皆年少未之国，居长安。
赵王禄、梁王产各将兵居南北军，皆吕氏之人。
列侯群臣莫自坚其命。
太尉绛侯勃不得入军中主兵。
曲周侯郦商老病，其子寄与吕禄善。
绛侯乃与丞相陈平谋，使人劫郦商。令其子寄往绐说吕禄曰： 高帝与吕后共定天下，刘氏所立九王，吕氏所立三王，皆大臣之议，事已布告诸侯，诸侯皆以为宜。
今太后崩，帝少，而足下佩赵王印，不急之国守籓，乃为上将，将兵留此，为大臣诸侯所疑。
足下何不归印，以兵属太尉？
请梁王归相国印，与大臣盟而之国，齐兵必罢，大臣得安，足下高枕而王千里，此万世之利也。
translation: 
When King Hui Hui passed away, Emperor Xiaohui sent Zhang Liang, the Marquis of Liu, to make me the King of Qi.
Emperor Xiaohui passed away and Empress Gao came to power. She was old and listened to the opinions of Lu's group and deposed the emperor without authorization. She also killed three Zhao kings one after another, abolished Liang, Zhao and Yan, and used the title of Lu's children as kings. Qi was also divided into four parts.
The loyal ministers gave advice, but the empress was confused and refused to accept it.
Now that Empress Gao has passed away, the emperor is still young and cannot govern the world, so he can only rely on ministers and princes. However, the Lu family prides itself on its position, gathers troops, uses its majesty to intimidate the loyal ministers of the princes, and orders the world under the pretext of imperial edicts. Therefore, the Liu family's ancestral temple is in danger.
I led the army to the court to eliminate those who should not be king.
When the Han court heard the news, Prime Minister Lu Chan and others sent Yingyin Marquis Guanying to lead an army to attack the King of Qi.
When Guan Ying arrived in Xingyang, he discussed with others that the Lu family had taken control of the army in Guanzhong and wanted to eliminate the Liu family and establish themselves as emperor.
If I defeat Qi's army now and go back to resume my life, this will further strengthen the Lu family's power.
So Guan Ying stationed troops in Xingyang and sent envoys to inform the king of Qi and the princes of other countries. We must unite with them, wait for Lu's rebellion, and get rid of Lu together.
After the King of Qi heard the news, he withdrew his army to the western border of Qi State, waited for the news, and acted as agreed.
Lu Lu and Lu Chan wanted to launch a rebellion in Guanzhong, but they were afraid of Suihou, Zhu Xuhou and others internally, and externally they were afraid of the armies of Qi and Chu. They were also worried about Guan Ying's rebellion, so they planned to wait until Guan Ying's army fought with Qi's army before launching a rebellion.
At this time, King Liu Tai of Jichuan, King Liu Wu of Huaiyang, King Liu Chao of Changshan, and King Lu Yuan, grandson of Empress Lu, who were nominally younger brothers of the Young Emperor, all did not return to the country due to their young age and lived in Chang'an.
Zhao Wang Changlu and Liang Wang Lu Chan each commanded troops and lived in the Northern and Southern Army. They were both from the Lu family.
No one among the princes and ministers felt that they would be able to save their lives.
Taiwei Jianghou Zhou Bo could not enter the military camp to take control of the army.
The Marquis of Qu Zhou, Li Shang, was old and sick, and his son Li Ji was friendly with Lu Lu.
Jianghou discussed the strategy with Chen Ping, the prime minister, and sent people to kidnap Li Shang, and asked Li Ji to deceive Lu Lu and say: Emperor Gao and Queen Lu jointly pacified the world. The Liu family was granted nine kings, and the Lu family was granted three kings. They were all agreed upon by the ministers. This matter has been notified to the princes, and they all think it is appropriate.
Now that the Queen Mother is dead and the Emperor is young, and you wear the seal of King Zhao, you do not return home quickly to defend the country, but as a general, you lead the army to stay here, and you are suspected by the ministers and princes.
Why don't you return the general's seal and hand over the army to the Taiwei?
And ask the King of Liang to return the seal and ribbon of the Prime Minister, make an alliance with the ministers, and go to his own kingdom. In this way, the King of Qi will definitely stop his troops, the ministers can be stable, and you can sit back and relax, and be king for thousands of miles, which will be beneficial to future generations.
summary:
After her death, the Lu family plotted rebellion. King Qi of Liu led forces against them, and ministers like Zhou Bo and Chen Ping conspired to remove the Lu. Zhou Bo, using deception, gained command of the Northern Army, and the soldiers supported the Liu family. Lu Lu surrendered his command, and Lu Chan was killed. The Lu family was exterminated, including Lu Lu and Lu Yu.

