Chunk 0: 
original: 
万石君石奋，其父赵人也。
赵亡，徙温。
高祖东击项籍，过河内，时奋年十五，为小吏，侍高祖。
高祖与语，爱其恭敬，问曰： 若何有？
对曰： 有母，不幸失明。
家贫。
有姊，能鼓瑟。
高祖曰： 若能从我乎？
曰： 愿尽力。
于是高祖召其姊为美人，以奋为中涓，受书谒。
徙其家长安中戚里，以姊为美人故也。
奋积功劳，孝文时官至太中大夫。
无文学，恭谨，举无与比。
东阳侯张相如为太子太傅，免。
选可为傅者，皆推奋为太子太傅。
及孝景即位，以奋为九卿。
迫近，惮之，徙奋为诸侯相。
奋长子建，次甲，次乙，次庆，皆以驯行孝谨，官至二千石。
于是景帝曰： 石君及四子皆二千石，人臣尊宠乃举集其门。
凡号奋为万石君。
孝景季年，万石君以上大夫禄归老于家，以岁时为朝臣。
过宫门阙必下车趋，见路马必轼焉。
translation: 
Wan Shijun, whose surname is Shi and whose name is Fen, is from Zhao.
After the fall of Tongguo, he moved to Wen County.
Gaozu Shu attacked Xiangju and passed through Hanoi County. Shi Fen was only fifteen years old at that time and was a minor official serving Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu liked his respectful attitude when talking to him, so he asked: Who else is in your family?
Shi Fen replied: I only have a mother who is unfortunately blind.
The family is poor.
There is also a sister who can play the piano.
Gaozu said: Can you follow me?
He replied: I am willing to do my best.
So Emperor Gaozu called his sister to be a beauty, and appointed Shi Fen as his chamberlain, Zhongjuan, who was responsible for accepting invitations to meet famous people and other matters.
Because his sister was a concubine, his home was moved to the streets of Chang'an City where the emperor's relatives lived.
By the time of Emperor Xiaowen, Shi Fen was promoted to Taizhong doctor due to his many merits.
Shi Fen did not understand Confucianism, but he was extremely respectful and cautious, unmatched by anyone.
Zhang Xiangru, Marquis of Shuyang, was dismissed as the Crown Prince and Tutor.
When choosing someone to be the Taifu, Shi Fen was elected as the Prince Taifu.
When Emperor Jing came to the throne, Shi Fen was promoted to Jiuqing.
Shi Fen was in the court and close to the emperor. Emperor Jing couldn't bear his restraint and asked Shi Fen to be the prime minister of the princes.
Shi Fen's eldest son Shi Jian, his second son X, his third son X, and his fourth son Shi Qing all reached the rank of two thousand stones because of their obedient, loyal, filial, and cautious behavior.
Then Emperor Jing said: Mr. Shi and his four sons are all officials with a salary of two thousand shi, and all the respect and favor of the ministers will gather at his house.
Since the total salary of his four sons and Shi Fen was 10,000 dan, Shi Fen was named Lord Wan Shi.
In the later years of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, Wan Shijun resigned from his old age and returned to his hometown with his salary as a doctor, and went to court regularly every year.
Every time you pass by the palace gate, you must get off the car and walk quickly. When you see the emperor's carriage and horses on the road, you must hold the crossbar of the carriage and salute.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
子孙为小吏，来归谒，万石君必朝服见之，不名。
子孙有过失，不诮让，为便坐，对案不食。
然后诸子相责，因长老肉袒固谢罪，改之，乃许。
子孙胜冠者在侧，虽燕必冠，申申如也。
僮仆如也，唯谨。
上时赐食于家，必稽首俯伏而食，如在上前。
其执丧，哀戚甚。
子孙遵教，亦如之。
万石君家以孝谨闻乎郡国，虽齐、鲁诸儒质行，皆自以为不及也。
建元二年，郎中令王臧以文学获罪皇太后。
太后以为儒者文多质少，今万石君家不言而躬行，乃以长子建为郎中令，少子庆为内史。
建老白道，万石君尚无恙。
translation: 
When his descendants who are minor officials come back to visit him, Wan Shijun will definitely put on court clothes and meet them without calling them by name.
When his descendants made mistakes, he would not blame them. Instead, he would sit aside and face the dining table without eating.
When the descendants saw this situation, they blamed each other, asked the elders of the clan to be a guarantee, and apologized without putting on their clothes. The descendants promised to correct their mistakes, and Shi Fen accepted their apology.
His adult children are also neatly dressed and polite when they are with him.
The servants also looked respectful and cautious.
Sometimes the emperor would give his family food, and Wan Shijun would always kowtow and bend down on the ground before eating it, as if he were in front of the emperor.
When a relative in the family dies, he must wear mourning clothes and feel very sad.
His descendants followed his teachings and learned from him.
Wan Shijun's family was famous throughout the county for their filial piety and respect, and even the noble literati in the Qilu area felt inferior to them.
In the second year of Jianyuan, Wang Zang, the doctor's order, angered the empress dowager because of his love of Confucianism.
The Empress Dowager believed that Confucianism was rich in humanities but not in quality, and was not as good as Wan Shijun's family. They did not talk about it but practiced it, so Shi Jian, the eldest son of Wan Shijun, was granted the title of Lang Zhongling, and his fourth son Shi Qing was granted the title of internal history.
When Shi Jian was old and gray, Wan Shijun was still healthy.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
每五日洗沐归谒亲，入子舍，窃问侍者，取亲中裙厕牏，身自浣洒，复与侍者，不敢令万石君知之，以为常。
建奏事于上前，即有可言，屏人乃言极切；至廷见，如不能言者。上以是亲而礼之。
万石君徙居陵里。
内史庆醉归，入外门不下车。万石君闻之，不食。
庆恐，肉袒谢请罪，不许。
举宗及兄建肉袒，万石君让曰： 内史贵人，入闾里，里中长老皆走匿，而内史坐车中自如，固当！
乃谢罢庆。
庆及诸子入里门，趋至家。
万石君元朔五年卒，建器泣哀思，杖乃能行。
岁余，建亦死。
诸子孙咸孝，然建最甚，甚于万石君。
建为郎中令，奏事下，建读之，惊恐曰： 书 马 者与尾而五，今乃四，不足一，获谴死矣！
其为谨慎，虽他皆如是。
translation: 
Shi Jian went back to visit his father on leave every five days, entered the child's room, asked the servants privately, and took away his father's underwear and toilet, washed them himself, and then gave them to the servants. He did not dare to let Wan Shijun know, and he often did this.
When Shi Jian presented a memorial in front of the emperor, he would avoid others and speak freely to the emperor alone, even if there was someone to present. However, when he went to court, he seemed like a person who was not good at talking, so the emperor became close to him and treated him politely.
Wan Shijun moved to the mausoleum to live.
When Shi Qing, who was serving as an official, came home drunk, he entered the gate without getting out of the car. When Wan Shijun heard about it, he stopped eating.
Huqing was frightened and took off his shirt to apologize, but Wan Shijun still did not forgive him.
Shi Qing asked the whole family and Shi Jian to take off their shirts. Wan Shijun scolded him: "Nei Shi is a powerful person. When he enters the village, all the elders in the village move out of the way, but Nei Shi sits in the car and is at ease. It shouldn't be done!"
So Shi Qing was asked to leave.
From then on, Shi Qing and the other children walked home in a hurry after entering the inner door.
Wan Shijun died in the fifth year of Yuanshuo. Shi Jian cried sadly and could only walk with a cane.
Shi Jian also died more than a year later.
Wan Shijun's descendants all observe filial piety, but Shi Jian is the most filial, even more than Wan Wuxing.
Shi Jian was appointed as Lang Zhongling and reported matters to the emperor. When the report was reported, Shi Jian read it and said in horror: Write the word "horse" with four dots and the tail, a total of five. Now write the word "horse" with four dots. If you write less, the emperor will blame you to death.
He was also cautious when dealing with other matters.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
庆为太仆，御出，上问车中几马，庆以策数马毕，举手曰： 六马。
庆于兄弟最为简易矣，然犹如此。
出为齐相，齐国慕其家行，不治而齐国大治，为立石相祠。
元狩元年，上立太子，选群臣可傅者，庆自沛守为太子太傅，七岁迁御史大夫。
元鼎五年，丞相赵周坐酎金免，制诏御史： 万石君先帝尊之，子孙至孝，其以御史大夫庆为丞相，封牧丘侯。
是时，汉方南诛两越，东击朝鲜，北逐匈奴，西伐大宛，中国多事。天子巡狩海内，修古神祠，封禅，兴礼乐。
公家用少，桑弘羊等致利，王温舒之属峻法，皃宽等推文学，九卿更进用事，事不关决于庆，庆醇谨而已。
在位九岁，无能有所匡言。
尝欲请治上近臣所忠、九卿咸宣，不能服，反受其过，赎罪。
translation: 
Shi Qing was appointed as a servant and drove a carriage for the emperor. The emperor asked how many horses were in the carriage. After Shi Qing counted the horses with a whip, he raised his hand and said: "Six horses."
Shi Qing is the most straightforward and concise among the brothers, and he is also so careful.
Shi Qing became the prime minister of the state of Qi. The people of Qi respected his family ethics. He managed the state of Qi well without using punishment, so the people of Qi built a stone temple for him.
In the first year of Yuanshou, the emperor appointed a prince and selected someone among the ministers who could be the prince's teacher. Shi Qing was promoted from being the prefect of Pei County to the prince's tutor, and seven years later he was promoted to the imperial censor.
In the fifth year of Yuanding, Prime Minister Zhao Zhou was dismissed due to insufficient funds for sacrifices. The emperor went down to Shao and said: "Wan Shijun is a person respected by the late emperor, and his descendants abide by filial piety. Therefore, he appointed Shi Qing, the imperial censor, as the prime minister and granted him the title of Marquis of Muqiu."
At this time, the Han Dynasty was attacking Vietnam and Vietnam to the south, North Korea to the east, expelling the Xiongnu to the north, and attacking Dawan to the west. There were many affairs in the country, and the emperor was patrolling the country, building ancient temples, enshrining Zen, and promoting rituals and music.
Domestic expenditures were insufficient. Ministers such as Sang Hongyang worked hard to increase fiscal revenue, ministers such as Wang Wenshu strictly enforced the law, ministers such as Ni Kuan promoted literature, and the nine ministers cooperated with each other to govern the country. But many things have nothing to do with Shi Qing. He is just obedient and handles things respectfully and carefully.
Shi Qing served as prime minister for nine years without any advice on current affairs.
He once wanted to punish the emperor's close ministers Suozhong and Jiuqing Xianxuan, but he could not be punished. Instead, he was punished for it, and in the end he had to atone for his sins.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
元封四年，关东流民二百万口，无名数者四十万，公卿议欲请徙流民于边以適之。
上以为庆老谨，不能与其议，乃赐丞相告归，而案御史大夫以下议为请者。
庆惭不任职，上书曰： 臣幸得待罪丞相，疲驽无以辅治。
城郭仓廪空虚，民多流亡，罪当伏斧质，上不忍致法。愿归丞相侯印，乞骸骨归，避贤者路。
上报曰： 间者，河水滔陆，泛滥十余郡，堤防勤劳，弗能堙塞，朕甚忧之。
是故巡方州，礼嵩岳，通八神，以合宣房。
济淮、江，历山滨海，问百年民所疾苦。
惟吏多私，征求无已，去者便，居者扰，故为流民法，以禁重赋。
乃者封泰山，皇天嘉况，神物并见。
朕方答气应，未能承意，是以切比闾里，知吏奸邪。
translation: 
In the fourth year of Yuanfeng, there were 2 million refugees in Guandong and 400,000 refugees without household registration. The ministers planned to ask the emperor to move the refugees to border areas to resettle them.
The emperor believed that Prime Minister Shi Qing was old and cautious and could not discuss state affairs with him, so he ordered the prime minister to retire and return home, and to investigate and punish those ministers below the imperial censor who wanted to migrate as refugees.
The prime minister felt ashamed that he could not fulfill his duties and wrote to the emperor: "I have been favored by the emperor and become a useless prime minister, like a tired horse unable to assist in the governance of the court."
There is no food in the warehouses in the city, and the people are in exile. The crimes I have committed really deserve to be executed. The emperor cannot bear to punish me according to law. I hope to return the prime minister's seal and ask for an old skeleton to go home, so that I can make way for talented people.
The report said: Not long ago, the Yellow River overflowed and flooded more than ten counties. The work on the flood control embankments was very hard, but it still couldn't be blocked. I was very worried.
Therefore, he patrolled the country, paid homage to Mount Song, paid homage to the Eight Gods, and blocked the breach in Xuanfang.
He crossed the Huaihe River and the Yangtze River, patrolled the Lishan coast and asked about the sufferings of the people.
Considering that officials bent the law for personal gain and imposed endless heavy taxes, people who ran away from home were exempted from it, but those who settled down were very worried, so the Refugee Law was enacted to prohibit heavy taxes.
A few days ago, I went to Mount Tai to worship heaven, and the emperor gave me wonderful rewards, which were auspicious symbols.
I promised to renovate the government affairs in return for the auspicious response, but I am afraid that I am not obeying God's good intentions. I went to investigate among the people and learned that the officials were treacherous and evil.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
委任有司，然则官旷民愁，盗贼公行。
往车觐明堂，赦殊死，无禁锢，咸自新，与更始。
今流民愈多，计文不改，君不绳责长吏，而请以兴徙四十万口，摇荡百姓，孤儿幼年未满十岁，无罪而坐率，朕失望焉。
今君上书言仓库城郭不充实，民多贫，盗贼众，请入粟为庶人。
夫怀知民贫而请益赋，动危之而辞位，欲安归难乎？
君其反室！
庆素质，见诏报 反室 ，自以为得许，欲上印绶。
掾史以为见责甚深，而终以反室者，丑恶之辞也。或劝庆宜引决。
庆甚惧，不知所出，遂复起视事。
庆为丞相，文深审谨，天他大略。
后三岁余薨，谥曰恬侯。
中子德，庆爱之。
translation: 
The appointed officials fail to perform their duties, the people are miserable, and thieves are lawless.
In previous years, I was in Mingtang, pardoning prisoners on death row, and officials who had not been demoted or punished. They all reformed and started over.
Nowadays, more and more people are in exile, but the documents for household registration are not reduced. The ministers do not strictly punish the officials, but request that 400,000 people be moved away, which makes the people uneasy. Orphans and teenagers under ten years old are also innocently led to move away. I am very disappointed with this.
Now you write a letter saying that the granaries in the city are empty, the people are poor, and robbers and thieves are rampant. You are the prime minister and cannot govern. You ask for grain and rice to atone for your sins and to retire and become a commoner.
You know well that the people are in distress, but you ask for an increase in taxes and sway the people. Now that the people are in danger, you want to resign from your position. Who do you blame?
If you take it for granted, you can return home!
Gen Qing was a simple man. When he saw the emperor's edict asking him to go home, he thought he had the emperor's permission and wanted to return the prime minister's seal ribbon.
Shi Qing believed that being severely reprimanded by the emperor and finally sent home was the harshest criticism. Some people advised Shi Qing to commit suicide.
Shi Qing was frightened and didn't know what to do, so he went to the court again to manage things.
When Gen Qing was the prime minister, he was very scheming and had no talent.
Mi died more than three years later and was named Tianhou.
The second son Shi De is Shi Qing's favorite.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
上以德嗣，后为太常，坐法免，国除。
庆方为丞相时，诸子孙为小吏至二千石者十三人。
及庆死后，稍以罪去，孝谨衰矣。
卫绾，代人陵人也，以戏车为郎，事文帝，功次迁中郎将，醇谨无它。
孝景为太子时，召上左右饮，而绾称病不行。
文帝且崩时，属孝景曰： 绾长者，善遇之。
及景帝立，岁余，不孰何绾，绾日以谨力。
景帝幸上林，诏中郎将参乘，还而问曰： 君知所以得参乘乎？
绾曰： 臣代戏车士，幸得功次迁，待罪中郎将，不知也。
上问曰： 吾为太子时召君，君不肯来，何也？
对曰： 死罪，病。
上赐之剑，绾曰： 先帝赐臣剑凡六，不敢奉诏。
translation: 
The emperor let Shi De inherit the title, and later he was appointed Taichang. He was dismissed for breaking the law and the feudal state was abolished.
When Shi Qing was Prime Minister, there were thirteen people among his descendants who were serving as minor officials up to two thousand shi.
After Gen Qing's death, some people were deposed for committing crimes, and the virtue of filial piety and respect also declined.
Wei Wan, a native of Dai Ren Ling, was a knight with outstanding chariot skills. He followed Sai Tong and was promoted to the rank of Zhonglang General due to his merit. He was honest and cautious and had no other ambitions.
When Xiao Liangcha was the crown prince, he summoned the emperor's close friends to have a drink, but Xun excused himself because he was ill.
Before Secha died, he told Emperor Xiaojing: Wei Wan is a highly respected person, treat him well.
When Emperor Jing came to the throne, he did not ask about Wei Wan's situation for more than a year. Wei Wan encouraged himself to be cautious every day.
Emperor Jing went on a tour to Shanglin, and ordered Zhonglang to be a charioteer. When he came back, he said, "Do you know why I can let you be a charioteer?"
Wei Wan said: I am a charioteer in the state of Dai. I was lucky enough to be promoted due to my merits and became a general of the rank and file. I don’t know why.
The emperor asked: I called you when I was the prince, why did you refuse to come?
He replied: This is really a capital crime, I am sick.
The emperor gave him the sword. Wei Wan said: The late emperor gave me six swords, and I dare not accept this reward again.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
上曰： 剑，人之所施易，独至今乎？ 绾曰： 具在。
上使取六剑，剑常盛，未尝服也。
郎官有谴，常蒙其罪，不与它将争；有功，常让它将。
上以为廉，忠实无它肠，乃拜绾为河间王太傅。
吴、楚反，诏绾为将，将河间兵击吴、楚有功，拜为中尉。
三岁，以军功封绾为建陵侯。
明年，上废太子，诛栗卿之属。
上以绾为长者，不忍，乃赐绾告归，而使郅都治捕栗氏。
既已，上立胶东王为太子，召绾拜为太子太傅，迁为御史大夫。
五岁，代桃侯舍为丞相，朝奏事如职所奏。
然自初宦以至相，终无可言。
上以为敦厚可相少主，尊宠之，赏赐甚多。
为丞相三岁，景帝崩，武帝立。
建元中，丞相以景帝病时诸官囚多坐不辜者，而君不任职，免之。
后薨，谥曰哀侯。
子信嗣，坐酎金，国除。
直不疑，南阳人也。为郎，事文帝。
其同舍有告归，误持其同舍郎金去。
translation: 
The emperor said: "Swords, people often exchange them, do you still keep them to this day?" Wei Wan said: "They are all here."
The emperor sent someone to fetch six swords. The swords were all well preserved and had never been worn.
When a Lang officer made a mistake and was criticized, Wei Wan often took the blame himself, did not argue with other generals, and often gave up his military merits to other generals.
The emperor believed that he was honest, loyal and magnanimous, so he appointed Wei Wan as the tutor of Liu De, the king of Hejian.
When the vassal states of Wu and Chu rebelled, the emperor issued an edict to appoint Wei Wan as general. He led the army in Hejian to attack the states of Wu and Chu and made military exploits. The emperor promoted him to lieutenant.
Three years later, Wei Wan was granted the title of Marquis of Jianling because of his military exploits.
In the second year, the emperor deposed the prince and executed Li Qing and others.
The emperor thought that Wei Wan was a kind elder and could not bear to send him, so he ordered Wei Wan to retire and return to his hometown, while Zhi Du was responsible for arresting Li Qing and others.
After the incident was over, the emperor appointed King Micellar as the prince and ordered Wei Wan to be the prince's tutor. Later, he was promoted to the imperial censor.
Five years later, when Tao Hou Liu She was replaced as prime minister, Wei Wan only reported routine matters and did not discuss anything else.
However, since he became an official until he was promoted to prime minister, he has been unable to build or abolish anything.
The emperor believed that Wei Wan was a kindhearted person and could assist the prince, so he respected and favored him and rewarded him with many things.
Wei Wan served as prime minister for three years. After Emperor Jing's death, Emperor Wu ascended the throne.
In the middle of the Jianyuan year, because officials imprisoned many innocent people when Emperor Jing was ill, Wei Wan refused to redress the grievances of the people, so he was dismissed.
After Wei Wan died, Mi was named Aihou.
His son Wei Xin inherited his title, but was convicted of insufficient tribute for sacrifices, and the princely state was abolished.
There is no doubt that he is from Nanyang. As a Langguan, he served Emperor Wen.
Someone of his fellow-shalangguan asked for leave to go home and mistakenly took away the gold of his fellow-shalangguan.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
已而同舍郎觉，亡意人疑，不疑谢有之，买金偿。
后告归者至而归金，亡金郎大惭，以此称为长者。
稍迁至中大夫。
朝，廷见，人或毁不疑曰： 不疑状貌甚美，然特毋奈其善盗嫂何也！
不疑闻，曰： 我乃无兄。
然终不自明也。
吴、楚反时，不疑以二千石将击之。
景帝后元年，拜为御史大夫。
天子修吴、楚时功，封不疑为塞侯。
武帝即位，与丞相绾俱以过免。
不疑学《老子》言。
其所临，为官如故，唯恐人之知其为吏迹也。
不好立名，称为长者。
薨，谥曰信侯。
传子至孙彭祖，坐酎金，国除。
周仁，其先任城人也。
以医见。
景帝为太子时，为舍人，积功迁至太中大夫。
translation: 
Soon his colleague Shalang found out that he had made groundless speculations about Zhi Busuo. Zhi Busuo apologized and said that he had indeed taken the gold, so he bought the gold to compensate him.
Later, the official Lang who took leave returned and returned the gold to the man who had lost the gold. This made the man who had lost the gold very ashamed, so he called Zhi Busuo an elder.
Soon, Zhi Busuo was promoted to a middle doctor.
When he went to court to pay homage to the emperor, some people slandered him and said: "Zhi is handsome, but how could he have an affair with his sister-in-law?"
After hearing this, Zhi Buyi said: I have no brother.
However, he never defends himself.
When Wu and Chu rebelled, Zhi Busuo led an army of two thousand stones to attack the rebels.
In the first year of Emperor Jing's reign, he was appointed as the imperial censor.
When the emperor recorded his military exploits in quelling the Wu and Chu rebellions, he granted Zhi the title of Marquis of Sai.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and was dismissed together with Prime Minister Wei Wan for faults.
Zhi Buyi is proficient in the theory of inaction in Laozi.
When he is an official, he does everything according to the previous system, lest people know about his achievements as an official.
He doesn't like to build a reputation and people call him an elder.
After Zhi Buyi's death, Mi was given the title of Marquis of Xin.
The throne was passed to his grandson Zhi Pengzu. He was convicted of insufficient money for the sacrifice and the feudal state was abolished.
Zhou Ren's ancestor was from Rencheng.
He was summoned by the emperor because of his excellent medical skills.
When Emperor Jing was the crown prince, he was a sacrificer and was promoted to Taizhong doctor through meritorious service.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
景帝初立，拜仁为郎中令。
仁为人阴重不泄。
常衣弊补衣溺裤，故为不洁清，以是得幸，入卧内。
于后宫秘戏，仁常在旁，终无所言。
上时问人，仁曰： 上自察之。
然亦无所毁，如此。
景帝再自幸其家。
家徙阳陵。
上所赐甚多，然终常让，不敢受也。
诸侯群臣赂遗，终无所受。
武帝立，为先帝臣重之。
仁乃病免，以二千石禄归老，子孙咸至大官。
张欧字叔，高祖功臣安丘侯说少子也。
欧孝文时以治刑名侍太子，然其人长者。
景帝时尊重，常为九卿。
至武帝元朔中，代韩安国为御史大夫。
殴为吏，未尝言按人，剸以诚长者处官。
官属以为长者，亦不敢大欺。
上具狱事，有可却，却之；不可者，不得已，为涕泣，面而封之。
translation: 
When Emperor Jing just came to the throne, he worshiped Zhou Ren as his doctor.
Zhou Ren is a deep and steady person and does not reveal other people's secrets.
He usually wore patched and dirty clothes and deliberately showed that he was unclean, so he was favored and entered the palace bedroom.
The emperor was playing with the concubines in the harem. Zhou Ren was often beside him, but he never spoke.
The emperor sometimes asked people about their merits. Zhou Ren said: The emperor himself can observe it.
Although Zhou Ren knew the shortcomings of others, he did not slander them in front of the emperor, that's all.
Emperor Jing personally visited his home twice.
His family moved to Yangling.
The emperor gave many rewards, but he often declined and did not dare to accept them.
He also refused to accept bribes from princes and ministers.
After Emperor Wu ascended the throne, he was respected as a minister of the late emperor.
Zhou Ren was dismissed from his post due to illness and returned home with a salary of 2,000 shi to provide for his old age. His descendants all became high-ranking officials.
Zhang Shi, courtesy name Zhao, was the youngest son of Anqiu Hou Jiyue, a great hero.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, Tuiya assisted the prince by studying the science of punishment names, but he was very kind-hearted.
When Liangtong was in power, he respected him very much and served as Jiuqing.
During the reign of You Wusu, he replaced Dong Guo as the imperial censor.
As an official, Zhang Ou never punished others, but only acted with sincerity and kindness.
His subordinates considered him an elder and did not dare to deceive him too much.
When he reported a case, he would return whatever could be returned; if he could not, he would weep for the sinner and seal the document as he could not bear to read it.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
其爱人如此。
老笃，请免，天子亦宠以上大夫禄，归老于家。
家阳陵。
子孙咸至大官。
赞曰：仲尼有言 君子欲讷于言而敏于行 ，其万石君、建陵侯、塞侯、张叔之谓与？
是以其教不肃而成，不严而治。
至石建之浣衣，周仁为垢污，君子讥之。
translation: 
He cares about people like that.
Zhang Ou was old and asked to retire, but the emperor still gave him the salary of a doctor or above to go home and spend his old age.
The family lives in Yangling.
His descendants are all high officials.
Praise: King Kong said: A gentleman should talk less and do more. Isn't this what it means to fall into the Five Stars, build the Linghou, fortify the fortress, and withdraw from the army?
Therefore, educating others can achieve the goal without being harsh, and being an official can govern the country without being dignified.
As for Shi Jian's laundry, Zhou Ren wore torn clothes and diapers, and was ridiculed by gentlemen.


