Chunk 0: 
original: 
张衡字平子，南阳西鄂人也。
世为著姓。
祖父堪，蜀郡太守。
衡少善属文，游于三辅，因入京师，观太学，遂通《五经》，贯六艺。
虽才高于世，而无骄尚之情。
常从容淡静，不好交接俗人。
永元中，举孝廉不行，连辟公府不就。
时天下承平日久，自王侯以下，莫不逾侈。
衡乃拟班固《两都》，作《二京赋》，因以讽谏。
精思傅会，十年乃成。
文多，故不载。
大将军邓骘奇其才，累召不应。
衡善机巧，尤致思于天文、阴阳、历算。
常耽好《玄经》，谓崔瑷曰： 吾观《太玄》，方知子云妙极道数，乃与《五经》相拟，非徒传记之属，使人难论阴阳之事，汉家得天下二百岁之书也。
复二百岁，殆将终乎？
所以作者之数，必显一世，常然之符也。
汉四百岁，《玄》其兴矣。
安帝雅闻衡善术学，公车特征拜郎中，再迁为太史令。
遂乃研核阴阳，妙尽琁机之正，作浑天仪，著《灵宪》、《算罔论》，言甚详明。
曾不慊夫晋、楚，敢告诚于知己。
阳嘉元年，夏造候风地动仪。
translation: 
◆Biography of Zhang Heng, named Pingzi, a native of Xi'e County, Nanyang.
It is a common surname in the world.
His grandfather, Zhang Kan, once served as the prefect of Shu County.
Zhang Heng was good at writing articles when he was young. He once studied in Sanfu. After entering the capital, he studied Taixue and became proficient in the Five Classics and Six Arts.
Although his talent is above the world, he has no pride.
He is usually calm and indifferent, and does not like to interact with the common people.
During the Yongyuan period of Emperor He, he was elected as Xiaolian, but if he didn't go, he could not be recruited several times by the government.
At that time, the country had been at peace for a long time, and everyone from the princes on down was not extravagant.
Zhang Heng then studied Ban Gu's "Two Capitals" and wrote "Ode to Two Capitals" as a satire and admonishment.
It took ten years of hard work to complete.
There are many articles, so I won’t write them here.
General Deng Zhi admired his talent and called him up many times, but he did not answer.
Zhang Heng was good at mechanics, especially astronomy, yin and yang, and calendar calculation.
I usually love Yang Xiong's "Tai Xuan Jing" and said to Cui Yuan: "I read "Tai Xuan" and then I realized that Ziyun's wonderful Taoist number can be compared with the "Five Classics". It is not just a biography that allows people to debate the affairs of yin and yang. The Han Dynasty has won the world's two hundred years of books."
In another two hundred years, will the "Tai Xuan Jing" decline?
Because the author's destiny will be revealed forever, this is a natural sign.
During the 400th year of the Han Dynasty, the study of "Xuan" was still on the rise.
Emperor An had long heard that Zhang Heng was good at martial arts, and he worshiped him as a doctor, and then he was promoted to Taishi Ling.
So he studied yin and yang, became proficient in astronomy and calendar, made an armillary sphere, and wrote "Lingxian" and "Suanwang Lun", which were very detailed and clear.
In the early years of the emperor's reign, he was transferred again and became the Taishi Order. Zhang Heng did not envy the fame and wealth of his time, and the official positions he held were often not promoted for many years.
He left his post as historian and returned to his original post five years ago. So he set up an objective question and wrote "Yingwen" to express his thoughts. In the first year of Yangjia, another wind and earth motion instrument was created.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
以精铜铸成，员径八尺，合盖隆起，形似酒尊，饰以篆文山龟鸟兽之形。
中有都柱，傍行八道，施关发机。
外有八龙，首衔铜丸，下有蟾蜍，张口承之。
其牙机巧制，皆隐在尊中，覆盖周密无际。
如有地动，尊则振龙机发吐丸，而蟾蜍衔之。振声激扬，伺者因此觉知。
虽一龙发机，而七首不动，寻其方面，乃知震之所在。
验之以事，合契若神。自书典所记，未之有也。
尝一龙机发而地不觉动，京师学者咸怪其无征，后数日驿至，果地震陇西，于是皆服其妙。
自此以后，乃令史官记地动所从方起。
时，政事渐损，权移于下，衡因上疏陈事曰：
伏惟陛下宣哲克明，继体承天，中遭倾覆，龙德泥蟠。
translation: 
It is made of fine copper, with a diameter of eight feet, a protruding top cover, shaped like a wine bottle, and decorated with images of turtles, birds and beasts in seal script.
There is a big pillar in the middle, with eight paths running beside it, which is used to shut down the engine.
There are eight dragons outside, each holding a copper pill in its mouth, and a toad underneath, opening its mouth to receive the pill.
The teeth are ingeniously made and are hidden in the bottle, covering them thoroughly and without gaps.
If the earth moves, the bottle will cause the dragon to shake, and the dragon will spit out pills, which will go into the toad's mouth and make an exciting sound, so the guardian will know that the ground is shaking.
Although one dragon is moving, but the heads of the other seven dragons are motionless, if you find the place where the dragon is moving, you will know the direction of the earthquake.
After testing, it was in accordance with the established system, and it was as good as God. This has never happened since there were records in books.
Once upon a time, a dragon's plan came out and the earth did not move, and the scholars in the capital blamed it for not believing it. A few days later, the messenger came, and sure enough, there was an earthquake in Longxi, so they all admired its miracle.
From then on, historians were ordered to record the place where the earthquake occurred.
At that time, political affairs were gradually declining and power was controlled by subordinates. Zhang Heng then went to the court to explain the matter.
Said: The emperor is smart and wise, and he upholds the destiny. Unfortunately, when he became the prince, he was deposed as the king of Jiyin and his virtue was not promoted.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
今乘云高跻，磐桓天位，诚所谓将隆大位，必先倥偬之也。
亲履艰难者知下情，备经险易者达物伪。
故能一贯万机，靡所疑惑，百揆允当，庶绩咸熙。宜获福祉神祗，受誉黎庶。
而阴阳未和，灾眚屡见，神明幽远，冥鉴在兹。
福仁祸淫，景响而应，因德降休，乘失致咎，天道虽远，吉凶可见，近世郑、蔡、江、樊、周广、王圣，皆为效矣。
故恭俭畏忌，必蒙祉祚，奢淫诌慢，鲜不夷戮，前事不忘，后事之师也。
夫情胜其性，流遁忘反，岂唯不肖，中才皆然。
苟非大贤，不能见得思义，故积恶成衅，罪不可解也。
向使能瞻前顾后，援镜自戒，则何陷于凶患乎！
贵宠之臣，众所属仰，其有愆尤，上下知之。
褒美讥恶，有心皆同，故怨讟溢乎四海，神明降其祸辟也。
translation: 
Now riding on the clouds, if you don't enter the heavenly throne, it is really said that before you ascend to the great throne, you must first be poor.
Those who have gone through hardships personally understand the situation; those who have experienced dangers and hardships understand the authenticity of things.
Therefore, it can handle all situations without any doubts. The measures are appropriate and all walks of life are coordinated. They should be blessed by the gods and loved by the common people.
When Yin and Yang are not in harmony, disasters occur frequently. Although the gods are far-reaching, they watch secretly.
Benevolence brings blessing, immorality brings misfortune, just like the shadow follows the shape and the sound responds. Good deeds are brought about by virtue, and sins are obtained by losses. Although the way of heaven is far away, good and bad luck can be seen. In modern times, Zheng Zhong, Cai Lun, Jiang Jing, Fan Feng, Zhou Guang, and Wang Sheng are all obvious examples.
Therefore, if you are careful and careful, you will definitely get blessings. If you are arrogant, extravagant and flattering, you will rarely be killed. Not forgetting the past is the teacher of the future.
As for love overcoming one's nature and following the trend and forgetting to rebel, this is not only true for unscrupulous people, but also for talented people.
If you are not a great sage, you will not be able to see Siyi, so you will become a sin by accumulating evil, and your sin will be inevitable.
If you can look forward and backward and learn from the past, how can you suffer disaster?
A favored minister is in the public eye, and everyone above and below knows his sins.
Reward the good and punish the evil, everyone agrees with this. Therefore, if resentment is full, the gods will bring down evil.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
顷年雨常不足，思求所失，则《洪范》所得 僭恒阳若 者也。
惧群臣奢侈，昏逾典式，自下逼上，用速咎征。
又前年京师地震土裂，裂者威分，震者人扰也。
君以静唱，臣以动和，威自上出，不趣于下，礼之政也。
窃惧圣思厌倦，制不专已，思不忍割，与众共威。
威不可分，德不可共。
《洪范》曰： 臣有作威作福玉食，害于而家，凶于而国。
天鉴孔明，虽疏不失。
灾异示人，前后数矣，而未见所革，以复往悔。自非圣人，不能无过。
愿陛下思惟所以稽古率旧，勿令刑德八柄，不由天子。
若恩从上下，事依礼制，礼制修则奢僭息，事合宜则无凶咎。
然后神望允塞，灾消不至矣。
初，光武善谶，及显宗、肃宗因祖述焉。
自中兴之后，儒者争学图纬，兼复附以訞言。
translation: 
In recent years, the rain has often been insufficient, and what we have missed is that "Hong Fan" said that if the king's behavior is wrong, then the sun will follow, and there will be drought in the sun.
We must be wary of officials who are extravagant, do not abide by the rules, push themselves from below, and accelerate the arrival of signs of guilt.
The year before last, there was an earthquake in the capital and the soil cracked. Cracking means power, and earthquake means someone is causing trouble.
If the king sings quietly, the ministers will move to harmonize with it. Power comes from above, not from below. This is the system of the country.
I am worried that the emperor is afraid of trouble, does not control the government orders by himself, cannot bear to give up his love, and shares the authority with others.
Power cannot be divided, virtue cannot be shared.
"Hong Fan" says: If a minister has the authority to bring blessings and food, it will harm his family and his country.
God can see it clearly, even though it is far away.
Disasters have occurred several times, but no reform has been seen. People regret the past. People are not saints and cannot be without faults.
I hope that the emperor will follow the past in archeology and not use the eight handles of punishment and virtue, which are not up to the emperor.
If kindness is given from top to bottom, things are done according to the etiquette system, the etiquette system is complete, extravagance and deviant things are stopped, and everything is handled appropriately, there will be no guilt or evil.
Then all the wishes of the gods are fulfilled, and the disasters are eliminated.
At first, Guangwu was very prophetic. Xianzong and Suzong inherited the ancestral theory.
Since the Zhongxing Dynasty, Confucian scholars have been striving to learn more and add more evil words to it.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
衡以图纬虚妄，非圣人之法，乃上疏曰：
臣闻圣人明审律历以定吉凶，重之以卜筮，杂之以九宫，经天验道，本尽于此。
或观星辰逆顺，寒燠所由，或察龟策之占，巫觋之言，其所因者，非一术也。
立言于前，有征于后，故智者贵焉，谓之谶书。
谶书始出，盖知之者寡。
自汉取秦，用兵力战，功成业遂，可谓大事，当此之时，莫或称谶。
若夏侯胜、眭孟之徒，以道术立名，其所述著，无谶一言。
刘向父子领校秘书，阅定九流，亦无谶录。
成、哀之后，乃始闻之。
《尚书》尧使鮌理洪水，九载绩用不成，鮌则殛死，禹乃嗣兴。
而《春秋谶》云 共工理水 。
凡谶皆云黄帝伐蚩尤，而《诗谶》独以为 蚩尤败，然后尧受命 。
《春秋元命包》中有公输班与墨翟，事见战国，非春秋时也。
又言 别有益州 。
益州之置，在于汉世。其名三辅诸陵，世数可知。
至于图中讫于成帝。
translation: 
Zhang Heng believed that the plan was illusory and not the way of a sage. So Shangshu.
Said: I heard that the sage clearly analyzed the astronomical calendar to determine good and bad luck, used it for divination, used the nine palaces, measured the celestial phenomena, and tested the truth, all in this.
Some looked at the direction of the stars and the causes of cold and heat; some looked at Gu Ce's divination. Wu Jinzhi said that they relied on more than one technique.
What was said before is confirmed later, so smart people value this. It's called a prophecy.
The prophecies became popular, but not many people knew about them.
Since the Han Dynasty replaced the Qin Dynasty, it can be said that it is a great event to use military force to fight and achieve great success. At this time, no one was predicting.
For example, Xia Housheng, Mu Meng, etc. were famous for their Taoism, but there are no prophecies in their writings.
Liu Xiang and his son were the school secretaries, and they approved the ninth stream, but there was no record of the prophecy.
It was only after Cheng and Ai that people began to hear about prophecies.
"Shangshu" records that Yao sent Gun to control the flood, but after nine years of failure, Gun was executed and Yu succeeded him.
And "Spring and Autumn Prophecy" says: Gonggong regulates water.
All prophecies say that the Yellow Emperor attacked Chiyou, but "Poetic Prophecies" only states that Chiyou was defeated, and then Yao was ordered to do so.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" contains Gongshu Ban and Mo Zhai. The events happened in the Warring States Period, not the Spring and Autumn Period.
He also said, "Don't worry about Yizhou."
When Yizhou was established during Emperor Wu's reign, its name was Sanfu Zhuling, which can be known from generation to generation.
As for the prophecy, it ended with Emperor Cheng.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
一卷之书，互异数事，圣人之言，势无若是，殆必虚伪之徒，以要世取资。
往者侍中贾逵摘谶互异三十余事，诸言谶者皆不能说。
至于王莽篡位，汉世大祸，八十篇何为不戒？
则知图谶成于哀、平之际也。
且《河洛》、《六艺》，篇录已定，后人皮傅，无所容篡。
永元中，清河宋景遂以历纪推言水灾，而伪称洞视玉版。
或者至于弃家业，入山林。后皆无效，而复采前世成事，以为证验。
至于永建复统，则不能知。
此皆欺世罔俗，以昧势位，情伪较然，莫之纠禁。
且律历、封候、九宫、风角，数有征效，世莫肯学，而竞称不占之书。
譬犹画工。恶图犬马而好作鬼魅，诚以实事难形，而虚伪不穷也。
宜收藏图谶，一禁绝之，则朱紫无所眩，典籍无瑕玷矣。
后迁侍中，帝引在帷幄，讽议左右。
translation: 
In a book, several things are different from each other, but the words of a sage will not be like this. They are probably hypocrites who are seeking to gain wealth through this.
In the past, the servant Jia Kui pointed out that the prophecies contradicted each other for more than thirty things, and a group of prophecies could not explain them.
As for Wang Mang's usurpation of the throne, this was a great disaster for the Han Dynasty. Why not stop it in Chapter 80?
This shows that the prophecy was made in the time of Aiping!
Moreover, the titles of "Rivers" and "Six Arts" have been determined, and future generations are forced to follow them, and no unnecessary additions are allowed.
In the Yongyuan Dynasty, Song Jing, a native of Qinghe, used historical records to deduce floods, and pretended to use holes to see what he saw on jade tablets.
Some people even abandoned their family business and went into the mountains and forests, but it didn't work in the end, so they collected the achievements of their previous lives as verification.
Until Emperor Shun was deposed and restored, I don't know.
This is all deceiving the world and deceiving the world. Their feelings are hypocritical and clear, but no one corrects them.
The laws, calendars, hexagrams, nine palaces, and wind horns have been effective many times, but no one has learned them, and they are vying for the book of prophecies.
For example, a painter hates painting dogs and horses, but likes to paint ghosts. This is because specific things are difficult to describe, and ghosts are hypocritical and invisible, so they are easy to paint.
Prophecies should be collected and not popular, so that there will be no confusion between right and wrong, and there will be no bad books.
After he was promoted to a servant, the emperor led him into the palace and satirized him.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
尝问衡天下所疾恶者。
回志朅来从玄諆，获我所求夫何思！永和初，出为河间相。
时国王骄奢，不遵典宪；又多豪右，共为不轨。
衡下车，治威严，整法度，阴知奸党名姓，一时收禽，上下肃然，称为政理。
视事三年，上书乞骸骨，征拜尚书。
年六十二，永和四年卒。
著《周官训诂》，崔瑗以为不能有异于诸儒也。
又欲继孔子《易》说《彖》、《象》残缺者，竟不能就。
所著诗、赋、铭、七言、《灵宪》、《应闲》、《七辩》、《巡诰》、《悬图》凡三十二篇。
永初中，谒者仆射刘珍、校书郎刘騊駼等著作东观，撰集《汉记》，因定汉家礼仪，上言请衡参论其事，会并卒，而衡常叹息，欲终成之。
及为侍中，上疏请得专事东观，收捡遗文，毕力补缀。
又条上司马迁、班固所叙与典籍不合者十余事。
又以为王莽本传但应载篡事而已，至于编年月，纪灾祥，宜为元后本纪。
又更始居位，人无异望。
光武初为其将，然后即真，宜以更始之号建于光武之初。
书数上，竟不听。
translation: 
I once asked Zhang Heng what the world hates.
At the beginning of Emperor Shun's Yonghe reign, he came out as the Prime Minister of Hejian.
At that time, the king of Hejian was arrogant and extravagant and did not abide by the law. There were also many powerful people who gathered together to cause trouble.
When Zhang Heng took office, he established his authority, rectified the laws, secretly found out the names of traitors, and arrested them at once. He was awe-inspiring from top to bottom, and he was known for his political integrity.
After serving for three years, he submitted a letter requesting to retire and return home. Ask for help from the minister.
He died in the fourth year of Yonghe's reign at the age of sixty-two.
Cui Yuan, who wrote "Exegesis of Zhou Officials", believed that there was no difference between him and other Confucian scholars.
He also wanted to follow Confucius's "Yi" to correct the defects of "彖" and "Xiang", but it was never completed.
He has written poems, fu, inscriptions, seven words, "Lingxian", "Yingjian", "Qibian", "Xungao" and "Xuantu", a total of thirty-two articles.
In An Diyong Junior High School, the visitor Pushe Liu Zhen, the school secretary Liu Mayu and others wrote Dongguan and compiled the "Han Ji". In order to determine the etiquette of the Han family, Zhang Heng was invited to participate in the discussion. When Liu Zhen and Liu Mayu passed away, Zhang Heng sighed and wanted to complete the matter.
As a servant, Shangshu asked him to go to Dongguan to collect and inspect the remaining documents and make every effort to repair them.
There are also more than ten things recorded by the superiors Ma Qian and Ban Gu that are inconsistent with the classics.
He also believed that the original biography of Wang Mang should only record the usurpation of the throne. As for chronicling the years and recording disasters and auspiciousness, it should be compiled into the "Benji of the Empress of the Yuan Dynasty".
He was appointed again, and the people had no objections.
Guangwu was his general at the beginning, and he came to the throne later. The title of Gengshi should be built before Guangwu.
I submitted the letter several times, but it was not accepted.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
及后之著述，多不详典，时人追恨之。
论曰：崔瑗之称平子曰 数术穷天地，制作侔造化 。
斯致可得而言欤！
推其围范两仪，天地无所蕴其灵；运情机物，有生不能参其智。
故知思引渊微，人之上术。记曰： 德成而上，艺成而下。
量斯思也，岂夫艺而已哉？何德之损乎！
translation: 
Later writings were mostly unknown in classics, which was a pity for the people at the time.
The historian commented: Cui Yuan praised Pingzi and said: The art of numerology explores the mysteries of heaven and earth, and the craftsmanship works together with nature.
Can you talk about this kind of attainment?
When it comes to his study of heaven and earth, the spiritual energy of heaven and earth is immeasurable; if he is mechanically diligent, no one can match his wisdom.
Therefore, people's profound thoughts have reached the pinnacle of intellectual thinking. "Book of Rites" says: Virtue comes first, and skill comes down.
Considering his intelligence, can it be said that it is just an artistic skill? What harm does it do to virtue?


