Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 14, 14]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
王祥郑冲何曾
石苞
王祥，字休徵，琅邪临沂人，汉谏议大夫吉之后也。
祖仁，青州刺史。
父融，公府辟不就。
祥性至孝。
早丧亲，继母硃氏不慈，数谮之，由是失爱于父。
每使扫除牛下，祥愈恭谨。
父母有疾，衣不解带，汤药必亲尝。
母常欲生鱼，时天寒冰冻，祥解衣将剖冰求之，冰忽自解，双鲤跃出，持之而归。
母又思黄雀灸，复有黄雀数十飞入其幕，复以供母。
乡里惊叹，以为孝感所致焉。
有丹柰结实，母命守之，每风雨，祥辄抱树而泣。
其笃孝纯至如此。
汉未遭乱，扶母携弟览避地庐江，隐居三十余年，不应州郡之命。
母终，居丧毁瘁，杖而后起。
徐州刺史吕虔檄为别驾，祥年垂耳顺，固辞不受。
览劝之，为具车牛，祥乃应召，虔委以州事。
于时寇盗充斥，祥率励兵士，频讨破之。
州界清静，政化大行。
时人歌之曰： 海沂之康，实赖王祥。
邦国不空，别驾之功。
举秀才，除温令，累迁大司农。
高贵乡公即位，与定策功，封关内侯，拜光禄勋，转司隶校尉。
从讨毌丘俭，增邑四百户，迁太常，封万岁亭侯。
天子幸太学，命祥为三老。
祥南面几杖，以师道自居。
天子北面乞言，祥陈明王圣帝君臣政化之要以训之，闻者莫不砥砺。
及高贵乡公之弑也，朝臣举哀，祥号哭曰 老臣无状 ，涕泪交流，众有愧色。
顷之，拜司空，转太尉，加侍中。
五等建，封睢陵侯，邑一千六百户。
及武帝为晋王，祥与荀顗往谒，顗谓祥曰： 相王尊重，何侯既已尽敬，今便当拜也。
祥曰： 相国诚为尊贵，然是魏之宰相。
吾等魏之三公，公王相去，一阶而已，班例大同，安有天子三司而辄拜人者！
损魏朝之望，亏晋王之德，君子爱人以礼，吾不为也。
及入，顗遂拜，而祥独长揖。
帝曰： 今日方知君见顾之重矣！
武帝践阼，拜太保，进爵为公，加置七官之职。
帝新爱命，虚己以求谠言。
祥与何曾、郑冲等耆艾笃老，希复朝见，帝遣侍中任恺谘问得失，及政化所先。
祥以年老疲耄，累乞逊位，帝不许。
御史中丞侯史光以祥久疾，阙朝会礼，请免祥官。
诏曰： 太保元老高行，朕所毗倚以隆政道者也。
translation: 
Where did Wang Xiang and Zheng Chong ever
Lithos
Wang Xiang, whose courtesy name was Xiuzheng, was born in Linyi, Langye, and was a descendant of Wang Ji, an admonishing official of the Han Dynasty.
His grandfather, Wang Ren, was the governor of Qingzhou.
His father, Wang Rong, was recruited by the government, but he refused to become an official.
Wang Xiang is very filial by nature.
His mother died when he was young, and his stepmother Zhu was not loving and spoke ill of him many times, thus losing his father's love.
Wang Xiang is often asked to clean the cattle pen, and Wang Xiang is more respectful and cautious.
When his parents were ill, he couldn't take off his clothes, so he had to taste the medicine himself first.
His stepmother once wanted to eat live fish. It was freezing cold at that time. Wang Xiang took off his clothes and was about to break the ice to catch fish. The ice suddenly cracked on its own and two carps jumped out. He took the fish home.
Stepmother wants to eat roasted oriole again. Dozens more orioles flew into his tent and took them to his stepmother.
The villagers were amazed and thought it was caused by the influence of filial piety.
There was a red sand fruit tree bearing fruit, and his stepmother ordered him to guard it. Whenever there was wind or rain, Wang Xiang would hug the tree and cry.
His filial piety reaches such an extent.
During the war at the end of the Han Dynasty, he supported his mother and took his younger brother Wang Lan to escape to Lujiang. They lived in seclusion for more than 20 years and refused to accept appointments from prefectures and counties.
When her mother passed away, she became ill due to grief and could only stand with a cane.
Lu Qian, the governor of Xuzhou, asked him to be his guest. Wang Xiang, who was nearly sixty years old, resolutely refused to accept the offer.
Wang Lan persuaded him and prepared an ox cart for him. Only then did Wang Xiang answer the call, and Lu Qian handed over the affairs of the state to him.
At that time, there were robbers and thieves everywhere. Wang Xiang led and encouraged the soldiers to defeat the enemy many times.
The state is peaceful and peaceful, and political decrees and enlightenment are passed unimpeded.
People at that time sang: Haiyi's happiness really depends on Wang Xiang.
The fact that the feudal country is not poor is due to others.
Wang Xiang was recommended as a scholar, appointed as Wen Ling, and promoted to Da Sinong many times.
Gaogui Xianggong ascended the throne, participated in the planning and made meritorious services, and was named Guannei Marquis. His official title was Guang Luxun, and he was transferred to Sili Xiaowei.
Following his attack on his mother Qiu Jian, he increased his residence by 400 households, was promoted to Taichang, and was granted the title of Marquis of Wansui Ting.
The emperor came to the Imperial Academy and ordered Wang Xiang to be the third elder.
Wang Xiang faces south, leaning on several tables and holding a walking stick, and considers himself a teacher.
The emperor asked for advice from the north, and Wang Xiang taught him the key points of political education for emperors and ministers of the Ming Dynasty. Everyone who heard this was inspired.
When the noble countryman was killed, the ministers of the court held a mourning ceremony. Wang Xiang cried and said, "The old minister has no face to see others." His nose burst into tears and everyone looked ashamed.
Soon after, he was promoted to Sikong, and was transferred to Taiwei, and then to Shizhong.
He was awarded the fifth-class title and was named Suiling Marquis, with a settlement of 1,600 households.
When Emperor Wen became the king of Jin, Wang Xiang and Xun Pin went to see him. Xunjie said to Wang Xiang: "The Prime Minister respects his position. He Hou has already respected him, so he should kneel down and worship him now."
Wang Xiang said: The prime minister is indeed noble, but he is the prime minister of Wei.
We are the three princes of the Wei State. The difference between the prince and the king is only one level, and the ranks are the same. How can the three princes of the emperor be bowed to others easily?
It damages the prestige of the Wei Dynasty and the reputation of the King of Jin. A gentleman treats others with courtesy, so I will not bow down.
After entering, Xunjie knelt down and worshiped, while Wang Xiang performed a long salute alone.
Emperor Wen said: Today I know the reason why you are appreciated!
When Emperor Wu ascended the throne, he granted Wang Xiang the title of Taibao, promoted him to the title of Duke, and granted him the powers of seven additional officials.
Not long after Emperor Wu came to the throne, he humbly sought out honest opinions.
Wang Xiang, He Zeng, Zheng Chong and other senior ministers wished to see him again, so the emperor sent Ren Kai, an aide-de-camp, to inquire about the gains and losses and the primary measures for political enlightenment.
Wang Xiang requested to retire many times on the grounds of old age and frailty, but the emperor refused.
The censor, Zhongcheng Hou Shiguang, requested that Wang Xiang be removed from his official position on the grounds that Wang Xiang had been ill for a long time and could not attend court.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The Taibao is an experienced official with high qualifications and high virtues, and I rely on him to govern.
summary:
Wang Xiang, courtesy name Xiuzheng, was from Linyi, Langye, a descendant of Han official Wang Ji. His grandfather Wang Ren served as Qingzhou governor, while his father Wang Rong refused government service. Wang Xiang was exceptionally filial. After his mother died young, his stepmother Zhu treated him poorly and spoke ill of him, causing his father to lose affection for him. Despite being ordered to clean cattle pens, Wang Xiang remained respectful. When his parents fell ill, he personally tasted their medicine. During freezing weather, his stepmother desired live fish; Wang Xiang removed his clothes to break ice, and two carps leaped out spontaneously. When she wanted roasted oriole, dozens flew into his tent. Villagers attributed these events to his filial piety. During late Han warfare, he supported his mother and younger brother Wang Lan while hiding in Lujiang for over twenty years, refusing official appointments. After his mother's death, he became ill from grief. At nearly sixty, he initially refused Governor Lu Qian's invitation but eventually accepted after Wang Lan's persuasion. He defeated bandits, brought peace to the state, and was praised in song. Wang Xiang held various official positions including Wen Ling, Da Sinong, and was named Guannei Marquis. He served as Sili Xiaowei, Taichang, and Marquis of Wansui Ting. The emperor appointed him as third elder at the Imperial Academy, where he taught political education. He was promoted to Sikong, Taiwei, and Shizhong, eventually becoming Suiling Marquis with 1,600 households. When Emperor Wen became King of Jin, Wang Xiang refused to kneel, stating that as a Wei official, he would not bow to others. Emperor Wu appointed him Taibao and promoted him to Duke. Despite repeated retirement requests due to age, the emperor refused, granting him privileges including exemption from court attendance. Upon critical illness, Wang Xiang instructed his descendants on simple burial, forbidding elaborate ceremonies and expensive items. He died in the fourth year of Taishi at age eighty-five. His sons included Wang Zhao, Wang Xia, Wang Fu, Wang Lie, and Wang Fen.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
其以览为宗正卿。
顷之，以疾上疏乞骸骨。
诏听之，以太中大夫归老，赐钱二十万，床帐荐褥，遣殿中医疗疾给药。
后转光禄大夫，门施行马。
咸宁四年卒，时年七十三，谥曰贞。
有六子：裁、基、会、正、彦、琛。
裁字士初，抚军长史。
基字士先，治书御史。
会字士和，侍御史。
正字士则，尚书郎。
彦字士治，中护军。
琛字士玮，国子祭酒。
初，吕虔有佩刀，工相之，以为必登三公，可服此刀。
虔谓祥曰： 苟非其人，刀或为害。
卿有公辅之量，故以相与。
祥固辞，强之乃受。
祥临薨，以刀授览，曰： 汝后必兴，足称此刀。
览后奕世多贤才，兴于江左矣。
裁子导，别有传。
郑冲，字文和，荥阳开封人也。
起自寒微，卓尔立操，清恬寡欲，耽玩经史，遂博究儒术及百家之言。
有姿望，动必循礼，任真自守，不要乡曲之誉，由是州郡久不加礼。
及魏文帝为太子，搜扬侧陋，命冲为文学，累迁尚书郎，出补陈留太守。
冲以儒雅为德，莅职无干局之誉，箪食缊袍，不营资产，世以此重之。
大将军曹爽引为从事中郎，转散骑常侍、光禄勋。
嘉平三年，拜司空。
及高贵乡公讲《尚书》，冲执经亲授，与侍中郑小同俱被赏赐。
俄转司徒。
常道乡公即位，拜太保，位在三司之上，封寿光侯。
冲虽位阶台辅，而不预世事。
时文帝辅政，平蜀之后，命贾充、羊祜等分定礼仪、律令，皆先谘于冲，然后施行。
及魏帝告禅，使冲奉策。
武帝践阼，拜太傅，进爵为公。
顷之，司隶李憙、中丞侯史光奏冲及何曾，荀顗等各以疾病，俱应免官。
translation: 
Wang Lan was appointed Zong Zhengqing.
Soon, he submitted a letter requesting to resign on the grounds of illness.
Xia Shaoshu agreed that he would return to his old age as a Taizhong doctor, give him two hundred thousand yuan, a bed tent and a mattress, and send palace doctors to treat his illness and deliver medicine.
Later, he became a doctor of Guanglu, and a wooden frame was set up in front of the door to block the passage of people and horses.
He died in the fourth year of Xianning at the age of seventy-three, and his nickname was Zhen.
He has six sons: Wang Cai, Wang Ji, Wang Hui, Wang Zheng, Wang Yan and Wang Chen.
Wang Cai, whose courtesy name was Shichu, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the Fu Army.
Wang Ji's courtesy name was Shixian, and he was appointed as the Censor of Zhishu.
Wang Hui's courtesy name was Shihe, and he was appointed as the censor.
Wang Zheng, courtesy name Shize, was appointed Shangshulang.
Wang Yan, nicknamed Shizhi, was appointed as the Central Guard.
Wang Chen, whose courtesy name was Shiwei, was appointed as the son of the state to offer wine.
At first, Lu Qian had a sword. The craftsman looked at it and thought that it must be someone who was in the position of Sangong and could wear this sword.
Lu Qian said to Wang Xiang: If it were not so, this sword might be a disaster.
You have the courage of a public servant, so I will give you the knife.
Wang Xiang firmly refused, but Lu Qian insisted that he accept.
Before Wang Xiang died, he handed the sword to Wang Lan and said: Your descendants will be prosperous enough to match this sword.
Wang Lan's descendants had many talented people from generation to generation and prospered in Jiangzuo.
There is another biography in this book about Wang Cai's son Wang Dao.
Zheng Chong, courtesy name Wenhe, was born in Kaifeng, Rongyang.
He was born in a poor and humble background, and established moral integrity beyond ordinary people. He was quiet and had few desires. He loved to ponder the classics and history, and he had extensive research on Confucianism and hundreds of schools of thought.
He has good looks and good reputation, must follow etiquette in his actions, be sincere and self-responsible, and does not seek the reputation of his hometown people. Therefore, the state and county did not discover his talent for a long time.
When Emperor Wen of Wei was the crown prince, he searched for and promoted lowly talents, appointed Zheng Chong as the literary minister, and was promoted to Shangshulang many times. He also went to Beijing to replace Chenliu as the prefect.
Zheng Chong regards elegance as his virtue. He does not have the reputation of being talented or magnanimous in his position. He only needs food and clothing and does not seek wealth. The world values ​​him for this.
General Cao Shuang recommended him to serve as a lieutenant, and then he was promoted to a regular attendant of Sanqi and Guang Luxun.
In the third year of Jiaping's reign, he was appointed Sikong.
When the Duke of Gaogui was giving lectures on Shangshu, Zheng Chong took the scriptures and taught them in person, and was rewarded together with his attendant Zheng Xiaotong.
Soon he was transferred to Situ.
Chang Daoxiang came to the throne and appointed him as Taibao, ranking above the three divisions, and named him Shouguang Hou.
Although Zheng Chong's official rank is the same as that of prime minister, he does not interfere in world affairs.
At that time, Emperor Wen assisted the government and after pacifying the Shu Kingdom, he ordered Jia Chong, Yang Hu and others to formulate etiquette and legal regulations respectively. They all asked Zheng Chong first and then implemented them.
When Emperor Wei announced his abdication, he sent Zheng Chong to present the policy letter.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne, appointed him as Taifu, and promoted him to Duke.
Soon, Si Li Yi and Zhong Cheng Hou Shi Guang wrote a letter saying that Zheng Chong, He Zeng, Xun Hao and others should be relieved of their official positions due to illness.
summary:
Zheng Chong, courtesy name Wenhe, was from Kaifeng, Rongyang. Born poor, he established moral integrity, was quiet with few desires, and extensively studied Confucian classics. He followed etiquette strictly and did not seek local fame. Emperor Wen of Wei appointed him literary minister, later promoting him to Shangshulang and Chenliu prefect. He valued elegance over wealth, earning respect. Cao Shuang recommended him as lieutenant, then Sanqi Changshi and Guang Luxun. In Jiaping's third year, he became Sikong, later Situ. He was appointed Taibao and named Shouguang Hou. Though holding prime ministerial rank, he avoided worldly affairs. When Emperor Wei abdicated, Zheng Chong presented the policy letter. Emperor Wu appointed him Taifu and promoted him to Duke. Despite illness-related requests for removal, the emperor refused. In the sixth year of Taishi, the emperor praised Zheng Chong, He Zeng, and Xun Hao for their virtue and service. Zheng Chong repeatedly resigned, and the emperor eventually allowed him to return to his mansion as Duke Shouguang with full privileges. He died the following year, receiving posthumous honors. Zheng Chong compiled "Collected Commentary of the Analects of Confucius" with others. Having no sons, his nephew Zheng Hui inherited his title.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
昔王孙裸葬矫时，其子奉命，君子不讥，况于合礼典者耶？ 诸子皆奉遵遗令，又断亲戚故吏设祭。
有六子：越、乔、统、浚、俊、崇。
以统为嗣。
统字弘绪，历位射声校尉、大鸿胪。
子顺，为尚书郎。
越字弘伦，早卒。
乔字弘祖，历尚书郎、散骑侍郎。
帝既召乔不得，深疑苞反。
及苞至，有惭色，谓之曰 卿子几破卿门 。
苞遂废之，终身不听仕。
又以有秽行，徙顿丘，与弟崇同被害。
二子超、熙亡走得免。
成都王颖之起义也，以超为折冲将军，讨孙秀，以功封侯。
又为振武将军，征荆州贼李辰。
颖与长沙王乂相攻，超常为前锋，迁中护军。
陈等挟惠帝北伐，超走还鄴。
颖使超距帝于荡阴，王师败绩，超逼帝幸鄴宫。
会王浚攻颖于鄴，颖以超为右将军以距浚，大败而归。
从驾之洛阳，西迁长安。
河间王颙以超领北中郎将，使与颖共距东海王越。
超于荥阳募兵，右将军王阐与典兵中郎赵则并受超节度，为豫州刺史刘乔继援。
范阳王虓逆击斩超，而熙得走免。
永嘉中，为太傅越参军。
浚字景伦，清俭有鉴识，敬爱人物。
位至黄门侍郎，为当世名士，早卒。
俊字彦伦，少有名誉，议者称为令器。
官至阳平太守，早卒。
崇字季伦，生于青州，故小名齐奴。
少敏惠，勇而有谋。
苞临终，分财物与诸子，独不及崇。
其母以为言，苞曰： 此兒虽小，后自能得。
年二十余，为修武令，有能名。
入为散骑郎，迁城阳太守。
伐吴有功，封安阳乡侯。
在郡虽有职务，好学不倦，以疾自解。
顷之，拜黄门郎。
兄统忤扶风王骏，有司承旨奏统，将加重罚，既而见原。
以崇不诣阙谢恩，有司欲复加统罪。
崇自表曰： 臣兄统以先父之恩，早被优遇，出入清显，历位尽勤。
伏度圣心，有以垂察。
近为扶风王骏横所诬谤，司隶中丞等飞笔重奏，劾案深文，累尘天听。
translation: 
In the past, Yang Wangsun rectified the current situation by burying him naked. His sons followed their father's orders, and a gentleman would not ridicule them, not to mention those who conformed to the etiquette and codes. The sons all obeyed the orders, and refused to offer sacrifices to relatives or former subordinates.
Shi Bao had six sons: Shi Yue, Shi Qiao, Shi Tong, Shi Jun, Shi Jun, and Shi Chong.
Shi Tong inherited the title.
Shi Tong, whose courtesy name was Hongxu, served successively as the captain of Shesheng and Dahonglu.
His son Shi Shun was appointed Shangshu Lang.
Shi Yue, whose courtesy name was Honglun, died early.
Shi Qiao, whose courtesy name was Hongzu, served successively as Shangshu Lang and Sanqi Shilang.
Since Emperor Wu could not summon Shi Qiao, he suspected Shi Bao of rebellion.
When Shi Bao arrived, Emperor Wu looked ashamed and said to him: Your son almost destroyed your family.
Shi Bao then deposed him and refused to let him serve as an official for the rest of his life.
Because of his dirty behavior, he was exiled to Dunqiu and was killed together with his younger brother Shi Chong.
His two sons, Shi Chao and Shi Xi, escaped and were not killed.
When King Sima Ying of Chengdu raised an army, he appointed Shi Chao as General Zhechong to attack Sun Xiu. He was granted the title of Marquis for his meritorious service.
He was also appointed General Zhenwu to conquer the Jingzhou bandits and bandits who were fighting for the house.
Sima Ying and Sima Yi, king of Kensha, attacked each other. Shi Chao served as the vanguard and was promoted to the central guard.
Chen Zhen and others kidnapped Emperor Hui for the Northern Expedition, and Shi Chao returned to Ye.
Sima Ying sent Shi Chao to resist the emperor in Dangyin. The emperor's army was defeated, and Shi Chao forced the emperor to visit Ye Palace.
When Wang Jun attacked Sima Ying in Ye, Sima Ying appointed Shi Chao as the right general to resist Wang Jun, but he returned with a disastrous defeat.
Follow the emperor to Luoyang and move west to Chang'an.
Sima Ji, the king of Hejian, appointed Shi Chao and General Beizhonglang, and sent him and Sima Ying to jointly resist Sima Yue, the king of the East China Sea.
Shi Chao recruited troops in Rongyang. Wang Chan, the right general, and Zhao Ze, the commander of the Dian soldiers, were both under Shi Chao's command and served as backup for Liu Qiao, the governor of Yuzhou.
Fanyang King Sima Chengcheng attacked and killed Shi Chao, but Shi Xi was able to escape and avoid death.
In the reign of Yongjia, Sima Yue was appointed as Taifu and joined the army.
Shi Jun, whose courtesy name is Jinglun, is honest, frugal, knowledgeable, and respectful.
He was a well-known scholar at the time when he reached the rank of Huangmen Shilang. He died early.
Shi Jun, courtesy name Yanlun, was famous when he was young. People who commented on him said that he was an outstanding talent.
When he reached Yangping Prefecture, he died early.
Shi Chong, whose courtesy name was Jilun, was born in Qingzhou, so his nickname was Qinu.
When he was young, he was smart, brave and resourceful.
When Shi Bao died, he divided his property among his sons, but not Shi Chong.
Shi Chong's mother spoke for Shi Chong, and Shi Bao said: Although this son is young, he can get it later.
In his twenties, he was practicing martial arts and had a reputation for being capable.
He entered the court as a Sanqi Lang and was promoted to the prefect of Chengyang.
For his meritorious service in the crusade against Wu, he was granted the title of Anyang Marquis.
Although he had a position in the county, he was eager to learn and asked to be dismissed due to illness.
Soon, he was awarded the title of Huang Menlang.
Brother Shi Tong offended Sima Jun, King of Fufeng. Officials accepted the decree and impeached Shi Tong, who was about to be severely punished, but he was later forgiven.
Because Shi Chong did not go to the palace to thank him, the officials wanted to accuse Shi of ruling again.
Shi Chong himself said in the letter: With the grace of his late father, my brother Shi Tong received favorable treatment early on. His official position is clean and he works hard in office.
I guessed the emperor's heart and was aware of this.
Recently, he was slandered and slandered by King Sima Jun of Fufeng. Sili Zhongcheng and others used words to emphasize the memorial, and the impeachment memorial quoted the law and fabricated charges to cover up the emperor's hearing.
summary:
He Zeng, courtesy name Yingkao, was from Yangxia, Chen State. His father He Kui was Taipu of Wei. He Zeng inherited his title young, was eager to learn, and gained reputation. He served as Sanqi Changshi, Diannong General, and Huangmen Shilang. He submitted memorials advising careful selection of county governors. He served as governor of Hanoi with majestic reputation. As Sili Xiaowei, he impeached the favored official Yin Mo. He criticized Ruan Ji's dissolute behavior during mourning. He held various positions including Zhenbei General and was granted Marquis of Yingchang Township. Emperor Wu appointed him Taibao and later Taifu. He was known for filial piety, treating his wife with formal respect. However, he was extremely extravagant, spending ten thousand on daily meals, with luxurious carriages and clothing exceeding imperial standards. He died at age eighty, receiving the posthumous name Xiao. His sons He Zun and He Shao inherited his wealth. He Shao served as prince's grand master and Situ, maintaining similar extravagance. Shi Bao, courtesy name Zhongrong, was from Nanpi, Bohai. Known for beauty and intelligence, he was discovered by Guo Xuanxin who predicted his future as minister. He served as Sima of Emperor Jing's Imperial Guard. Despite concerns about his character, Emperor Jing defended him, comparing him to Guan Zhong and Chen Ping. He served as Ye Diannong Zhonglang Jiang, governor of Donglai and Langye, and Xuzhou governor. During Zhuge Dan's rebellion, Shi Bao led troops and defeated Wu forces. He was granted Marquis of Shuguang and later promoted to Grand Sima and Duke of Leling County. Suspected of rebellion due to rumors, he was dismissed but later reinstated as Situ. He focused on agricultural policies and died in the eighth year of Taishi. His sons included Shi Yue, Shi Qiao, Shi Tong, Shi Jun, Shi Jun, and Shi Chong. Shi Chong, known for wealth and extravagance, competed with royal relatives in luxury, owning numerous slaves and treasures. He was executed at age fifty-two during political conflicts, with his entire family killed.

