Chunk 0: 
original: 
卫青字仲卿。
其父郑季，河东平阳人也，以县吏给事侯家。
平阳侯曹寿尚武帝姊阳信长公主。
季与主家僮卫媪通，生青。
青有同母兄卫长君及姊子夫，子夫自平阳公主家得幸武帝，故青冒姓为卫氏。
卫媪长女君孺，次女少皃，次女则子夫。
子夫男弟步广，皆冒卫氏。
青为侯家人，少时归其父，父使牧羊。
民母之子皆奴畜之，不以为兄弟数。
青尝从人至甘泉居室，有一钳徒相青曰： 贵人也，官至封侯。
青笑曰： 人奴之生，得无笞骂即足矣，安得封侯事乎！
青壮，为侯家骑，从平阳主。
建元二年春，青姊子夫得入宫幸上。
皇后，大长公主女也，无子，妒。
大长公主闻卫子夫幸，有身，妒之，乃使人捕青。
青时给事建章，未知名。
大长公主执囚青，欲杀之。
其友骑郎公孙敖与壮士往篡之，故得不死。
上闻，乃召青为建章监，侍中。
及母昆弟贵，赏赐数日间累千金。
君孺为太仆公孙贺妻。
少皃故与陈掌通，上召贵掌。
公孙敖由此益显。
子夫为夫人。
青为太中大夫。
元光六年，拜为车骑将军，击匈奴，出上谷；公孙贺为轻车将军，出云中；太中大夫公孙敖为骑将军，出代郡；卫尉李广为骁骑将军，出雁门：军各万骑。
青至龙城，斩首虏数百。
骑将军敖亡七千骑，卫尉广为虏所得，得脱归，皆当斩，赎为庶人。
贺亦无功。
唯青赐爵关内侯。
是后匈奴仍侵犯边。
语在《匈奴传》。
元朔元年春，卫夫人有男，立为皇后。
translation: 
Wei Qing, courtesy name Zhongqing.
His father, Zheng Ji, was from Pingyang, Hedong Province. He served as a county official and worked as an errand in the Pingyang Hou family.
Pingyang Hou Cao Shou married Princess Yang Xinchang, the sister of Emperor Mowu.
Zheng Ji had an affair with his master's servant Wei Wei and gave birth to Wei Qing.
Wei Qing had an elder brother, Wei Changjun, and an elder sister, Wei Zifu. Wei Zifu was favored by Emperor Wu in Princess Pingyang's family, so Wei Qing assumed the surname Wei.
Wei's eldest daughter is Junru, her second daughter is Shaoer, and her third daughter is Wei Zifu.
Wei Zifu's younger brother Bu Guang took the surname Wei.
Wei Qing was considered a member of Pingyang Hou's family and returned to his father's home when he was a child.
His father made him herd sheep, and his aunt's sons treated him as a slave and were not counted among their brothers.
Wei Qing once followed someone to the prisoner's room in Ganquan Palace. A prisoner who was being tortured came to him and said, "You are a noble person. If you become an official, you can become a marquis."
Wei Qing smiled and said: "A son born from a slave would be very satisfied if he could not be beaten or scolded. How could there be such a good thing as becoming a prince?"
When Wei Qing grew up, he became a knight of the Pingyang Hou family and followed Princess Pingyang.
In the spring of the second year of Jianyuan, Wei Qing's sister Wei Zifu entered the palace and was favored by the emperor.
Queen Chen is the daughter of the eldest princess. She has no son and is jealous of others.
The eldest princess heard that Wei Zifu was favored and was pregnant. She was jealous of her and sent people to arrest Wei Qing.
Wei Qing was working as an errand in Jianzhang Palace at that time and was not yet famous.
The eldest princess caught Wei Qing, imprisoned him, and wanted to kill him.
Wei Qing's friend Qi Lang Gongsun Ao and the warriors went to snatch him out, and Wei Qing avoided death.
When the emperor heard about this, he summoned Wei Qing and asked him to be the eunuch of Jianzhang Palace and serve as a minister.
When his half-brothers became prominent, the rewards amounted to thousands of gold in a few days.
Jun Ru married Grand Servant Sun He as his wife.
Wei Shaoer originally had an affair with Chen Zhang, and the emperor summoned Chen Zhang to make him an official.
Gongsun Ao thus became more prominent.
Wei Zifu became the emperor's wife.
Wei Qing became a doctor in Taizhong.
In the sixth year of Yuanguang, Wei Qing served as the cavalry general and attacked the Xiongnu and sent troops to Shanggu County; Gongsun He served as the light chariot general and left Yunzhong County; Taizhong doctor Gongsun Ao served as the cavalry general and left Dai County; Wei Wei Li Guang served as the Xiaocai general and left Yanmen County.
Each army has one cavalry. Wei Qing marched to Longcheng and annihilated hundreds of enemy troops.
The cavalry general Gongsun Ao lost 7,000 cavalry, and the guard Li Guang was captured alive by the enemy, but fortunately escaped. Both of them were sentenced to death and made atonement by becoming commoners.
Gongsun He also had no military exploits.
Only Wei Qing conferred the title of Marquis of Guannei.
After that, the Huns continued to invade the borders.
The incident is recorded in "The Biography of the Huns".
In the spring of the first year of Yuanshuo, Mrs. Wei gave birth to a son and was made queen.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
其秋，青复将三万骑出雁门，李息出代郡。
青斩首虏数千。
明年，青复出云中，西至高阙，遂至于陇西，捕首虏数千，畜百余万，走白羊、楼烦王。
遂取河南地为朔方郡。
以三千八百户封青为长平侯。
青校尉苏建为平陵侯，张次公为岸头侯。
使建筑朔方城。
上曰： 匈奴逆天理，乱人伦，暴长虐老，以盗窃为务，行诈诸蛮夷，造谋籍兵，数为边害。故兴师遗将，以征厥罪。
《诗》不云乎？ 薄伐猃允，至于太原 ； 出车彭彭，城彼朔方 。
今年骑将军青度西河至高阙，获首二千三百级，车辎畜产毕收为卤，已封为列侯，遂西定河南地，案榆溪旧塞，绝梓领，梁北河，讨薄泥，破符离，斩轻锐之卒，捕伏听者三千一十七级。
执讯获丑，驱马牛羊百有余万，全甲兵而还，益封青三千八百户。
其后匈奴比岁入代郡、雁门、定襄、上郡、朔方，所杀略甚众。
语在《匈奴传》。
元朔五年春，令青将三万骑出高阙，卫尉苏建为游击将军，左内史李沮为强弩将军，太仆公孙贺为骑将军，代相李蔡为轻车将军，皆领属车骑将军，俱出朔方。
大行李息、岸头侯张次公为将军，俱出右北平。
匈奴右贤王当青等兵，以为汉兵不能至此，饮醉，汉兵夜至，围右贤王。右贤王惊，夜逃，独与其爱妾一人骑数百驰，溃围北去。
汉轻骑校尉郭成等追数百里，弗得，得右贤裨王十余人，众男女万五千余人，畜数十百万，于是引兵而还。
至塞，天子使使者持大将军印，即军中拜青为大将军，诸将皆以兵属，立号而归。
上曰： 大将军青躬率戎士，师大捷，获匈奴王十有余人，益封青八千七百户。
而封青子伉为宜春侯，子不疑为阴安侯，子登为发干侯。
青固谢曰： 臣幸得待罪行间，赖陛下神灵，军大捷，皆诸校力战之功也。
translation: 
In the autumn of this year, Wei Qing led 30,000 cavalry to attack the Xiongnu and sent troops to Yanmen Pass. Li Xi sent troops to replace the county.
Wei Qing annihilated thousands of enemy troops.
The next year, Wei Qing sent troops to Yunzhong County, west to Gaoque, and to Longxi. He annihilated thousands of enemy troops, captured more than a million livestock, and drove away King Aries and King Loufan.
In the Han Dynasty, the Henan area was designated as Shuofang County.
Thirty-eight hundred households were assigned the title of Marquis of Changping to Wei Qing.
Su Jian, a lieutenant under Wei Qing, was granted the title of Pinglinghou, and Zhang Cigong was granted the title of Antouhou.
He sent Su to build Shuofang City.
The Emperor said: The Huns violated the laws of nature, violated human relations, bullied their elders, abused the elderly, took theft as a profession, defrauded barbarians, plotted conspiracies, relied on force, and repeatedly invaded the borders. Therefore, the imperial court sent troops and generals to combat their crimes.
Didn't the "Book of Songs" say, "I attacked the enemy and reached Taiyuan; the chariots rumbled and built a city in the north."
Now the cavalry general Wei Qing crossed the Xihe River to Gaoque, annihilated 2,300 enemy troops, captured their supplies and animals as spoils of war, and was granted the title of lord. Then he marched westward to pacify the Henan area, patrolled the old fortress of Yuxi, crossed Ziling, built a bridge over the Beihe River, leveled Puni, defeated Fuli, killed the elite enemy soldiers, and captured 3,017 soldiers who were hiding in ambushes.
Capture and question the prisoners, know where the enemy is, capture all the soldiers, drive back more than a million horses, cattle and sheep, and return the entire army. An additional 3,800 households were granted the title of Wei Qing Shiyi.
After that, the Xiongnu invaded Daijun, Yanmen, Dingxiang, Shangjun, and Shuofang in successive years, killing and plundering many people.
The incident is recorded in "The Biography of the Huns".
In the spring of the fifth year of Yuan Shuo, the Han Dynasty ordered the cavalry general Wei Qing to lead 30,000 cavalry out of Gaoque. Wei Wei Su Jian served as the guerrilla general, Zuo Nei Shi Li Ju served as the strong crossbow general, Tai servant Gong Sun He served as the cavalry general, and acting Prime Minister Li Cai served as the light chariot general. They were all under the control of the cavalry generals and sent troops to Shuofang.
Daxing ordered Li Xi and Antou Hou Zhang Cigong to serve as generals, and they both sent troops to Beiping County.
King Youxian of the Xiongnu faced Wei Qing and other troops, thinking that the Han army could not reach him, so he got drunk. Han soldiers arrived at night and surrounded King Youxian. King Youxian was frightened and fled overnight. He took only one of his concubines and hundreds of strong cavalry and fled northward through the Han army's encirclement.
The Han Dynasty Qingqi Colonel Guo Cheng and others chased for hundreds of miles, but failed to catch up. They captured more than ten people under King Youxian, more than 15,000 men and women, and tens of millions of livestock. So Wei Qing led his army back.
When the army arrived at the frontier, the emperor sent an envoy to hold the seal of the general, and appointed Wei Qing, the general of chariots and cavalry, as the general in the army. All the generals put their troops under the command of the general, and the general established his official title and returned.
The Emperor said: General Wei Qing personally led his soldiers in the battle and achieved a great victory. He captured more than ten Xiongnu kings and granted 8,700 additional households in Wei Qing's food town.
He also granted Wei Qing's sons Wei and his wife the title of Marquis of Yichun, Wei Busuo as the Marquis of Yin'an, and Wei Deng as the Marquis of Fagan.
Wei Qing resolutely refused and said: I am fortunate to be able to serve in the army. Relying on His Majesty's divine power, our army's great victory is all due to the hard work of all the captains.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
陛下幸已益封臣青，臣青子在襁褓中，未有勤劳，上幸裂地封为三侯，非臣待罪行间所以劝士力战之意也。
伉等三人何敢受封！
上曰： 我非忘诸校功也，今固且图之。
乃诏御史曰： 护军都尉公孙敖三从大将军击匈奴，常护军傅校获王，封敖为合骑侯。
都尉韩说从大军出浑，至匈奴右贤王庭，为戏下搏战获王，封说为龙额侯。
骑将军贺从大将军获王，封贺为南窌侯。
轻车将军李蔡再从大将军获王，封蔡为乐安侯。
校尉李朔、赵不虞、公孙戎奴各三从大将军获王，封朔为陟轵侯，不虞为随成侯，戎奴为从平侯。
将军李沮、李息及校尉豆如意、中郎将绾皆有功，赐爵关内侯。沮、息、如意食邑各三百户。
其秋，匈奴入代，杀都尉。
明年春，大将军青出定襄，合骑侯敖为中将军，太仆贺为左将军，翕侯赵信为前将军，卫尉苏建为右将军，郎中令李广为后将军，左内史李沮为强弩将军，咸属大将军，斩首数千级而还。
月余，悉复出定襄，斩首虏万余人。
苏建、赵信并军三千余骑，独逢单于兵，与战一日余，汉兵且尽。
信故胡人，降为翕侯，见急，匈奴诱之，遂将其余骑可八百奔降单于。
苏建尽亡其军，独以身得亡去，自归青。
青问其罪正闳、长史安、议郎周霸等： 建当云何？
霸曰： 自大将军出，未尝斩裨将，今建弃军，可斩，以明将军之威。
闳、安曰： 不然。
兵法 小敌之坚，大敌之禽也。 今建以数千当单于数万，力战一日余，士皆不敢有二心。
自归而斩之，是示后无反意也。不当斩。
青曰： 青幸得以肺附待罪行间，不患无威，而霸说我以明威，甚失臣意。
且使臣职虽当斩将，以臣之尊宠而不敢自擅专诛于境外，其归天子，天子自裁之，于以风为人臣不敢专权，不亦可乎？
官吏皆曰 善 。
translation: 
Your Majesty has graciously granted me the title of a new city, but my sons are still little babies with no merit, and have been granted the title of three princes by the emperor. This is not the original intention of the guilty minister to encourage the soldiers to fight hard.
How dare the three brothers, Mr. and Mrs. Wei, accept the title!
The emperor said: I have not forgotten the merits of all the captains. I should have done this now.
So he ordered the censor to say: "Gongsun Ao, the captain of the guard army, followed the general to attack the Huns three times. He often coordinated the various ministries, united the generals, captured the Xiongnu king, and made Gongsun Ao a coqihou."
Duwei Han said that he followed the army and sent troops to attack the palace of the Xiongnu Youxian King. He approached the enemy commander's flag and fought hard, captured the little king, and granted Han said the title of Long'ehou.
The cavalry general Gongsun He followed the general and captured the Xiongnu king, and made Gongsun He the Marquis of Nanmao.
The light chariot general Li Cai followed the general to capture the Hun king twice, and named Li Cai the Marquis of Le'an.
School captains Li Shuo, Zhao Buyu, and Gongsun Rongnu each followed the general three times, and they all captured the Xiongnu king. Li Shuo was granted the title of Zhizhihou, Zhao Buyu was granted the title of Suichenghou, and Gongsun Rongnu was granted the title of Congpinghou.
Generals Li Ju and Li Xi, as well as captains Dou Ruyi and Zhonglang Jiang Wan, all had military exploits and were granted the title of marquis within the pass. Li Ju, Li Xi and Ruyi each had three hundred households.
In the autumn of Qian year, the Huns invaded Daijun and killed the captain.
In the spring of the next year, General Wei Qing came out of Dingxiang County, and Heqi Hou Gongsun Ao served as the lieutenant general, and Grand Servant Sun He served as the left general. Xihou Zhao Xin served as the front general, Weiwei Su Jian served as the right general, Lang Zhongling Li Guang served as the rear general, and left internal history Li Ju served as the strong crossbow general. They were all under the command of the general, and they annihilated thousands of enemy troops and returned.
More than a month later, they all went out to Dingxiang County to attack the Huns, and wiped out more than 10,000 enemy troops in total.
The right general Su Jian and the former general Zhao Xin had more than 3,000 cavalry. They met Shanyu's army alone. They fought with them for more than a day and the Han army was almost exhausted.
Former general Zhao Xin turned out to be a Huns. After surrendering to the Han Dynasty, he was granted the title of Marquis of Xi. At this time, he saw that the situation was critical and the Huns came to lure him again, so he led his remaining cavalry of about 800 people to surrender to Chanyu.
The right general Su Jian's entire army was destroyed, and only he escaped and returned to the general's camp.
The general asked Jun Zhenghong, Chang Shi'an, Yilang Zhouba and others about the crimes committed by Su Jian: What crime should Su Jian deserve?
Zhou Ba said: Since the general sent out troops, he has not killed his deputy general. Now that Su Jian has abandoned his troops, he can be killed to show the majesty of the general.
Hong Hean said: No!
The Art of War says: No matter how powerful a small unit is, it will still be defeated by a powerful enemy. Now Su Jian used thousands of people to resist Shan Yu's tens of thousands. After fighting for more than a day, the soldiers did not dare to have second thoughts.
He came back to plead guilty but wanted to kill him. This approach was equivalent to telling those who came after him not to come back again after losing the battle. Su Jian should not be killed.
The general said: I am fortunate to serve in the army as a relative of the emperor, and I am not afraid of losing prestige. But Zhou Ba tried to persuade me by trying to establish his prestige, which was very unsatisfactory as a minister.
Even if a minister has the power to kill generals, wouldn't it be good if a minister with a high position and a favored position dare not use his power to kill outside the country's borders? Instead, he goes back to report to the emperor and let the emperor handle it on his own, thus showing that the minister does not dare to take power?
The officers all said yes.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
遂囚建行在所。
是岁也，霍去病始侯。
霍去病，大将军青姊少皃子也。
其父霍仲孺先与少皃通，生去病。
及卫皇后尊，少皃更为詹事陈掌妻。
去病以皇后姊子，年十八为侍中。
善骑射，再从大将军。
大将军受诏，予壮士，为票姚校尉，与轻勇骑八百直弃大军数百里赴利，斩捕首虏过当。
于是上曰： 票姚校尉去病斩首捕虏二千二十八级，得相国、当户，斩单于大父行籍若侯产，捕季父罗姑比，再冠军，以二千五百户封去病为冠军侯。
上谷太守郝贤四从大将军，捕首虏千三百级，封贤为终利侯。
骑干孟已有功，赐爵关内侯，邑二百户。
是岁失两将军，亡翕侯，功不多，故青不益封。
苏建至，上弗诛，赎为庶人。
青赐千金。
是时王夫人方幸于上，甯乘说青曰： 将军所以功未甚多，身食万户，三子皆为侯者，以皇后故也。
今王夫人幸而家族未富贵，愿将军奉所赐千金为王夫人亲寿。
青以五百金为王夫人亲寿。
上闻，问青，青以实对。上乃拜甯乘为东海都尉。
校尉张骞从大将军，以尝使大夏，留匈奴中久，道军，知善水草处，军得以无饥渴，因前使绝国功，封骞为博望侯。
去病侯三岁，元狩二年春为票骑将军，将万骑出陇西，有功。
上曰： 票骑将军率戎士逾乌盭，讨脩濮，涉狐奴，历五王国，辎重人众摄詟者弗取，几获单于子。
translation: 
So Su Jian was put into a prison car and sent to the emperor's patrol.
This year, Huo Qubing began to become a marquis.
Huo Qubing was the son of General Wei Qing's sister Wei Shaohao.
His father, Huo Zhongru, had an affair with Wei Shao'er and gave birth to Huo Qubing.
When Queen Wei came to her favor, Wei Shaoer married Zhan Shichenzhang.
Huo Qubing was the son of the queen's sister, and he became a servant at the age of eighteen.
Because he was good at horseback riding and archery, he accompanied General Wei Qing on two expeditions against the Huns.
According to the emperor's order, the general assigned him a group of strong soldiers and appointed him as the captain of Piao Yao. He led 800 light cavalry warriors hundreds of miles away from the army led by Wei Qing to win military exploits and kill many enemies.
At this time Emperor Wu said: Huo Qubing, the captain of Piaoyao School, annihilated 2,028 enemies, captured alive the prime minister and the householder, killed Shanyu's grandfather's Jiuruohou Chan, captured Shanyu's uncle Luo Gu and others alive, and won the title of the entire army twice for his merits. He named Huo Qubing the champion with 2,500 households.
Hao Xian, the prefect of Shanggu, went on four expeditions with the general, killing 1,300 enemies, and made him the final profiteer.
The knight Meng Ji also had military exploits and was given the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a title of enfeoffment to 200 households.
In this year, the Han Dynasty lost two troops led by Su Jian and Tan Xin, and Zhao Xin, the Marquis of Xi, surrendered to the Huns. His military achievements were not many, so Wei Qing was not able to increase his title.
The right general Su Jian returned to the court. The emperor did not kill him, but asked him to spend money to atone for his sins and serve the people.
The emperor gave Wei Qing a thousand pieces of gold.
At this time, Mrs. Wang was favored by Emperor Wu. Ning Cheng persuaded Wei Qing: The reason why the general enjoys the title of ten thousand households despite not having great merit, and his three sons are all named marquis, is because of Queen Wei.
Now that Mrs. Wang is favored by the Emperor but her relatives are not wealthy, I hope you can give the daughter of the Emperor to Mrs. Wang's mother as a birthday gift.
So Wei Qing spent five hundred gold to celebrate the birthday of Mrs. Wang's mother.
When Emperor Wu heard about this, he asked Wei Qing. Wei Qing told the truth, and Emperor Wu appointed Ning Cheng as the captain of Shuhai County.
Captain Zhang Qian followed the general Wei Qing on the expedition. Because he had been on an envoy to Daxia and lived among the Xiongnu for a long time, he served as a guide for the troops. He knew where the water and grass were fertile, so the troops did not suffer from hunger and thirst. Because he had served as an envoy to a distant country before and had meritorious service, Emperor Wu named him Bowang Hou.
In the third year after Huo Qubing was granted the title of Marquis, that is, in the spring of the second year of Yuanshou, he was appointed as General of Hussars. He led 10,000 cavalrymen from Longxi to attack the Xiongnu, and achieved great military exploits.
Emperor Wu ordered: General Hussar led his soldiers across Wu Zheng to attack the Xiongnu Yapu tribe. They crossed the Hunu River and passed through five Xiongnu kingdoms. They had a lot of baggage and a large number of people and horses. They gave leniency to those who surrendered and almost captured the son of the Xiongnu Chanyu.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
转战六日，过焉支山千有余里，合短兵，鏖皋兰下，杀折兰王，斩卢侯王，锐悍者诛，全甲获丑，执浑邪王子及相国、都尉，捷首虏八千九百六十级，收休屠祭天金人，师率减什七，益封去病二千二百户。
其夏，去病与合骑侯敖俱出北地，异道。
博望侯张赛、郎中令李广俱出右北平，异道。
广将四千骑先至，骞将万骑后。
匈奴左贤王将数万骑围广，广与战二日，死者过半，所杀亦过当。
骞至，匈奴引兵去。
骞坐行留，当斩，赎为庶人。
而去病出北地，遂深入，合骑侯失道，不相得。去病至祁连山，捕首虏甚多。
上曰： 票骑将军涉钧耆，济居延，遂臻小月氏，攻祁连山，扬武乎鱳得，得单于单桓、酋涂王，及相国、都尉以众降下者二千五百人，可谓能舍服知成而止矣。
捷首虏三万二百，获五王，王母、单于阏氏、王子五十九人，相国、将军、当户、都尉六十三人，师大率减什三，益封去病五千四百户。
赐校尉从至小月氏者爵左庶长。
鹰击司马破奴再从票骑将军斩脩濮王，捕稽且王，右千骑将得王、王母各一人，王子以下四十一人，捕虏三千三百三十人，前行捕虏千四百人，封破奴为从票侯。
校尉高不识从票骑将军捕呼于耆王王子以下十一人，捕虏千七百六十八人，封不识为宜冠侯。
校尉仆多有功，封为煇渠侯。
合骑侯敖坐行留不与票骑将军会，当斩，赎为庶人。
诸宿将所将士马兵亦不如去病，去病所将常选，然亦敢深入，常与壮骑先其大军，军亦有天幸，未尝困绝也。
然而诸宿将常留落不耦。
由此去病日以亲贵，比大将军。
translation: 
After six days of fighting, they crossed Yanzhi Mountain for more than a thousand miles, fought hand-to-hand with the enemy, and fought hard at the foot of Gaolan Mountain. They killed King Zhelan, beheaded King Luhou, killed the stubborn enemies, and captured all the others. They captured the son of King Hunxie, the Prime Minister, and the captain, killing the enemy and capturing 8,960 people in total, and captured King Xiutu's golden man offering sacrifices to heaven. About seven-tenths of his soldiers suffered casualties. 2,200 households were granted the title of Huo Qubing Shiyi.
In the summer of this year, Huo Qubing and Heqihou Gongsun Ao sent troops from Beidi County in two directions.
Bowang Hou Zhang Qian and Lang Zhongling Li Guangze also sent troops from You Beiping County in two groups.
Li Guang led 4,000 cavalry to the destination first, and Zhang Qian led 10,000 cavalry to arrive later.
King Zuoxian of the Xiongnu led tens of thousands of cavalry to surround Li Guang's tribe. Li Guang fought fiercely with the enemy for two days, suffering over half casualties and killing even more enemies.
It was not until Zhang Qian's troops arrived that the Huns retreated.
Because Zhang Qian's troops were slow to move, he should be beheaded to atone for his sins and serve the people.
After Huo Qubing set out from the north, he went deep into the Xiongnu region. Heqihou Gongsun Ao took the wrong route and was unable to join forces with Huo Qubing. Huo Qubing led his army to the Qilian Mountains and killed many enemies.
Emperor Wu ordered: General Hussar crossed the Gouqi River and Juyanze, arrived at Xiaoyueshi, captured the Qilian Mountains, and showed off his force in Kunde. He captured Shanyu's King Shanhuan and King Tutu, as well as the ministers and captains who led their troops to surrender, a total of 2,500 people. It can be said that he can surrender leniently and knows how to stop after success.
In this victory, 30,200 people were beheaded and captured, including five Xiongnu kings, fifty-nine people including the queen mother, Shan Yuque clan, and princes, and sixty-three prime ministers, generals, officials, and captains. Huo Qubing's soldiers suffered approximately three-tenths casualties. Huo Qubing was granted the title of 5,400 households.
The captains who followed Xiao Yuezhi to fight were given the title of Zuo Shu Zhang.
Eagle Strike Sima Zhao Ponu twice followed the general Hussar to kill King Pu Pu and capture King Jiqie. General You Qianqi captured one person each of the Xiongnu King and the Queen Mother, and four princes and one person, and captured 3,330 enemies. The last time he captured 1,400 enemies, he was granted the title of Congpiaohou.
Gao Bushi, the school lieutenant, followed General Hussar and captured eleven people below Prince Huyu Qi, and captured 1,768 enemies. Gao Bushi was granted the title of Marquis of Yiguan.
Most of the school's servants were granted the title of Huiquhou due to their military exploits.
Gongsun Ao, the Marquis of Heqi, was delayed on the march and was unable to join forces with the General of Hussar. He should be beheaded to atone for his sins for the people.
The troops led by many veteran generals were not as good as Huo Qubing. The soldiers led by Huo Qubing often selected brave and skilled men to supplement their troops. He himself also dared to go deep into enemy areas and often galloped in front of the army with his strong soldiers. His troops were also lucky enough to never encounter great danger.
However, those veterans often fall behind and cannot get good fighting opportunities.
From then on, Huo Qubing became more and more favored by Emperor Wu and became more prominent, and his status was equal to that of General Wei Qing.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
其后，单于怒浑邪王居西方数为汉所破，亡数万人，以票骑之兵也，欲召诛浑邪王。
浑邪王与休屠王等谋欲降汉，使人先要道边。
是时，大行李息将城河上，得浑邪王使，即驰传以闻。
上恐其以诈降而袭边，乃令去病将兵往迎之。
去病既渡河，与浑邪众相望。浑邪裨王将见汉军而多欲不降者，颇遁去。
去病乃驰入，得与浑邪王相见，斩其欲亡者八千人，遂独遗浑邪王乘传先诣行在所，尽将其众渡河，降者数万人，号称十万。
既至长安，天子所以赏赐数十巨万。
封浑邪王万户，为漯阴侯。
封其裨王呼毒尼为下摩侯，雁疪为煇渠侯，禽黎为河綦侯，大当户调虽为常乐侯。
于是上嘉去病之功，曰： 票骑将军去病率师征匈奴，西域王浑邪王及厥众萌咸奔于率，以军粮接食，并将控弦万有余人，诛獟悍，捷者虏八千余级，降异国之王三十二。
战士不离伤，十万之众毕怀集服。
仍兴之劳，爰及河塞，庶几亡患，以千七百户益封票骑将军。
减陇西、北地、上郡戍卒之半，以宽天下繇役。
乃分处降者干边五郡故塞外，而皆在河南，因其故俗为属国。
其明年，匈奴入右北平、定襄、杀略汉千余人。
其明年，上与诸将议曰： 翕侯赵信为单于画计，常以为汉兵不能度幕轻留，今大发卒，其势必得所欲。
是岁元狩四年也。
春，上令大将军青、票骑将军去病各五万骑，步兵转者踵军数十万，而敢力战深入之士皆属去病。
去病始为出定襄，当单于。
捕虏，虏言单于东，乃更令去病出代郡，令青出定襄。
translation: 
After this battle, Chanyu was very angry that King Hunxie was stationed in the west and was defeated by the Han army many times. King Hunxie lost tens of thousands of soldiers, all of which were attacked by the hussar generals. He wanted to summon King Hunxie and kill him.
King Hunxie discussed with King Xiutu and others about surrendering to the Han Dynasty, and sent Han representatives to negotiate on the border in advance.
At this time, the general Li Xi was preparing to build a castle on the bank of the Yellow River. He captured the envoy of King Hunxie and immediately sent someone to report to the emperor in a messenger car.
Emperor Wu was worried that the Huns were pretending to surrender and took the opportunity to sneak attack on the border, so he ordered Huo Qubing to lead his army to greet them.
Huo Qubing's troops crossed the Yellow River and faced King Hunxie's army from a distance. When King Hunxie's subordinates, King Bi and General Bi, saw the Han army, many of them did not want to surrender and fled one after another.
Huo Qubing immediately flew into the Huns camp, met King Hunxie, killed eight thousand people who were trying to escape, and asked King Hunxie to take a post chariot alone to the emperor's patrol residence first, and then led King Hunxie's troops to cross the Yellow River. The number of Huns who surrendered was tens of thousands, said to be one hundred thousand.
When they arrived in Chang'an, the emperor used money and goods as rewards worth hundreds of thousands.
Granted King Hunxie a city of 10,000 households and granted him the title of Marquis of Luo Yin.
His sidekick King Hudu Ni was named the Marquis of Xiamo, Yanzhi was the Marquis of Huiqu, Qinli was the Marquis of Heqi, and Dadang Hudiao was the Marquis of Changle.
At this time, Emperor Wu commended Huo Qubing for his contribution and said: General Huo Qubing led his troops to conquer the Xiongnu. The Hunxie King and his subjects in the western region came to surrender. Qubing aided them with military rations and led more than 10,000 archers to kill the fierce and fierce enemies. He killed more than 8,000 enemies and surrendered 32 foreign kings.
Our soldiers were not injured, but one hundred thousand people surrendered sincerely.
Thanks to the hussar generals' repeated battles, the border areas on the Yellow River were almost free of worries. Use 1,700 households to confer the title of hussar general.
Reduce half of the border guards in Longxi, Beidi, and Shangjun to reduce the corvee burden on the people of the world.
So the surrendered Huns were placed south of the Yellow River outside the pass in the five northwest counties, allowing them to maintain their own customs and habits as vassal states of the Han Dynasty.
Next year, the Xiongnu invaded Youbeiping and Dingxiang counties, killing and plundering more than a thousand Han Dynasty people.
In the second year, Emperor Wu discussed with the generals and said: Xihou Zhao Xin made suggestions for Chanyu and always believed that the soldiers of the Han Dynasty could not easily stop across the desert. Now we send out a large army and we will definitely win.
This year is the fourth year of Yuanshou.
In the spring, Emperor Wu sent General Wei Qing and General Huo Qubing to lead 50,000 cavalry each, followed by hundreds of thousands of infantry and transport troops. Those soldiers who dared to fight to the death and were not afraid of going deep into the enemy's lines belonged to Huo Qubing.
Huo Qubing began to prepare to set off from Dingxiang and directly attack Shan Yu's tribe.
Later, when the prisoners were captured, they said that Chan Yu was in Shumian, so the emperor ordered Huo Qubing to set off from Daijun and Wei Qing to set off from Dingxiang.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
郎中令李广为前将军，太仆公孙贺为左将军，主爵赵食其为右将军，平阳侯襄为后将军，皆属大将军。
赵信为单于谋曰： 汉兵即度幕，人马罢，匈奴可坐收虏耳。
乃悉远北其辎重，皆以精兵待幕北。
而适直青军出塞千余里，见单于兵陈而待，于是青令武刚车自环为营，而纵五千骑往当匈奴，匈奴亦纵万骑。
会日且入，而大风起，沙砾击面，两军不相见，汉益纵左右翼绕单于。
单于视汉兵多，而士马尚强，战而匈奴不利，薄莫，单于遂乘六骡，壮骑可数百，直冒汉围西北驰去。
昏，汉匈奴相纷挐，杀伤大当。
汉军左校捕虏，言单于未昏而去，汉军因发轻骑夜追之，青因随其后。
匈奴兵亦散走。
会明，行二百余里，不得单于，颇捕斩首虏万余级，遂至窴颜山赵信城，得匈奴积粟食军。
军留一日而还，悉烧其城余粟以归。
青之与单于会也，而前将军广、右将军食其军别从东道，或失道。
大将军引还，过幕南，乃相逢。
青欲使使归报，令长史簿责广，广自杀。
食其赎为庶人。
青军入塞，凡斩首虏万九千级。
是时，匈奴众失单于十余日，右谷蠡王自立为单于。
单于后得其众，右王乃去单于之号。
去病骑兵车重与大将军军等，而亡裨将。
悉以李敢等为大校，当裨将，出代、右北平二千余里，直左方兵，所斩捕功已多于青。
既皆还，上曰： 票骑将军去病率师躬将所获荤允之士，约轻赍，绝大幕，涉获单于章渠，以诛北车耆，转击左大将双，获旗鼓，历度难侯，济弓卢，获屯头王、韩王等三人，将军、相国、当户、都尉八十三人，封狼居胥山，禅于姑衍，登临翰海，执讯获丑七万有四百四十三级，师率减什二，取食于敌，卓行殊远而粮不绝。
translation: 
The doctor ordered Li Guang to be the front general, Grand Servant Sun He to be the left general, Lord Pangshi to be the right general, and Pingyang Marquis Cao Xiang to be the rear general, all under the command of General Wei Qing.
Zhao Xin gave Shan Yu a plan and said: The Han army has just crossed the desert, and the soldiers and horses are very tired. We can just sit back and take the prisoners.
So Chanyu transported all the baggage to a place far north, and deployed only his elite troops in the north of the desert to wait for the Han army.
At this time, Wei Qing's troops were more than a thousand miles away from the fortress. When he saw Shan Yu leading his army and waiting for the Han army, Wei Qing ordered his soldiers to surround the Han army with Wugang chariots and sent 5,000 cavalry to attack the Xiongnu army. The Huns also sent more than 10,000 cavalry to attack.
At this time, it was sunset, strong winds blew, sand and gravel blew in the face, and the two armies could not see each other. The Han army sent troops on the left and right to outflank the list.
Chanyu saw that there were many desert soldiers and they were strong and powerful. It would be unfavorable for the Xiongnu to fight. So he took advantage of the dusk and rode a cart pulled by six mules, leading hundreds of strong cavalry to break through the siege of the Han army and escape to the northwest.
By this time it was already dark, and the Han army and the Xiongnu army were fighting each other, causing considerable casualties on both sides.
The left colonel of the Han army captured the prisoners and confessed that Shan Yu had escaped before dark. The Han army then sent light cavalry to pursue them all night, with Wei Qing following closely behind.
The Huns soldiers scattered and fled.
At dawn, the Han army pursued Shan Yu for more than 200 miles without catching up with Shan Yu. They killed more than 10,000 enemies and arrived at Zhao Xincheng in Yinyan Mountain. They obtained the rations accumulated by the Xiongnu to feed the troops.
The army stayed here for a day before returning. Before leaving, they burned all the remaining food.
During the battle between Wei Qing and Shan Yu, former general Li Guang and right general crossed his troops and marched from the east, sometimes taking the wrong path.
They were not encountered until General Wei Qing led his army back to the south of the desert.
Wei Qing wanted to send someone to the court to report the situation, and ordered Chang Shi to question Li Guang based on the charges listed in the document. Li Guang committed suicide.
Zhao Shiqi redeemed his sins for the people.
Wei Qing returned to the frontier fortress. Wei Qing killed more than 19,000 enemies in total.
At this time, the Xiongnu tribe could not find the Chanyu for more than ten days, so King Youguli established himself as the Chanyu.
Chanyu later found his tribe, and King Youguli removed the title of Chanyu.
Huo Qubing's cavalry and baggage were equal to those of General Wei Qing, but he had no lieutenants.
They all appointed Li Gan and others as senior colonels and deputy generals. He attacked more than 2,000 miles from Daihe Youbeiping County, directly targeting the Xiongnu Zuoxian King's army, and his contribution to killing and capturing the enemy exceeded Wei Qing's.
After returning from the expedition, the emperor said: Hussar general Huo Qubing led his army to the expedition. He personally led the captured Huns soldiers with few utensils and went deep into the desert. He crossed the river to capture Zhang Qu, the Shanyu minister alive, and killed King Beiche Qi. He then turned to attack Zuo General Shuang and captured the enemy's flags and drums. They also crossed the Nanhou Mountain and the Gonglu River, and captured three people, including the Tuntou King and the Han King, and eighty-three people including the general, the prime minister, the householder, and the captain. They worship heaven at Langjuxu Mountain and worship earth at Guyan Mountain. Climb the mountain and overlook the Hanhai Sea. They captured 70,443 prisoners and suffered about two-tenths of their own soldiers. He also seized rations from the enemy and marched very far without having rations.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
以五千八百户益封票骑将军。
右北平太守路博德属票骑将军，会兴城，不失期，从至梼余山，斩首捕虏二千八百级，封博德为邳离侯。
北地都尉卫山从票骑将军获王，封王为义阳侯。
故归义侯因淳王复陆友、楼剸王伊即靬皆从票骑将军有功，封复陆支为杜侯，伊即靬为众利侯。
从票侯破奴、昌武侯安稽从票骑有功，益封各三百户。
渔阳太守解、校尉敢皆获鼓旗，赐爵关内侯，解食邑三百户，敢二百户。
校尉自为爵左庶长。
军吏卒为官，赏赐甚多。
而青不得益封，吏卒无封者。
唯西河太守常惠、云中太守遂成受赏，遂成秩诸侯相，赐食邑二百户，黄金百斤，惠爵关内侯。
两军之出塞，塞阅官及私马凡十四万匹，而后入塞者不满三万匹。
乃置大司马位，大将军、票骑将军皆为大司马。
定令，令票骑将军秩禄与大将军等。
自是后，青日衰而去病日益贵。
青故人门下多去，事去病，辄得官爵，唯独任安不肯去。
去病为人少言不泄，有气敢往。
上尝欲教之吴、孙兵法，对曰： 顾方略何如耳，不至学古兵法。
上为治第，令视之，对曰： 匈奴不灭，无以家为也。
由此上益重爱之。
然少而侍中，贵不省士。
其从军，上为遣太官赍数十乘，既还，重车余弃粱肉，而士有饥者。
其在塞外，卒乏粮，或不能自振，而去病尚穿域躢鞠也。
事多此类。
青仁，喜士退让，以和柔自媚于上，然于天下未有称也。
去病自四年军后三岁，元狩六年薨。
上悼之，发属国玄甲，军陈自长安至茂陵，为冢象祁连山。
translation: 
Five thousand eight hundred households were granted the title of Hussar General.
As a subordinate of General Hussar, Lu Bode, the right governor of Beiping, met in Xingcheng. On time, he followed General Hussar to Mount Yu, killing the enemy and capturing 2,800 people. The road was sealed and Bode was named Pi Lihou.
Weishan, the captain of the Northern Territory, followed General Hussar to capture the Xiongnu king alive, and named Weishan the Marquis of Yiyang.
The original Marquis of Guiyi, because King Chun restored Lu Zhi, and King Loupei Yi Jixuan fought with the Hussar General for their meritorious service, restored Lu Zhi as Du Hou, and Yi Jixuan as Zongli Hou.
Zhao Ponu, the Marquis of Piao, and Zhao Anji, the Marquis of Changwu, had followed General Hussar for their military exploits, and were granted three hundred households each.
Both Xie, the prefect of Yuyang, and Li Gan, the captain of the school, captured the enemy's flags and drums and were given the title of Marquis of Guannei. Xie was given a settlement of 200 households, and Li Gan was given a settlement of 200 households.
The school captain Xu Zi was given the title of Zuo Shu Zhang.
The officers and soldiers of Huo Qubing's army received many promotions and rewards.
However, Wei Qing was not granted a title, nor were any of his officers and soldiers.
Only Chang Hui, the governor of Xihe County, and Suicheng, the governor of Yunzhong County, were rewarded. Then he was given the same position as the prime minister of the princes and kingdoms, and was given 200 households in the city and 100 catties of gold. It was given to Chang Huijue as the Marquis of Guannei.
When the two armies of Wei Qing and Huo Qubing went to the outside of the Great Wall, the border officials inspected a total of 140,000 official and private horses, but after the war, less than 30,000 horses returned to the Great Wall.
The imperial court set up the position of Grand Sima, making both Wei Qing and Huo Qubing the Grand Sima.
This decree was enacted to make the rank and salary of the hussar general equal to that of the general.
From then on, Wei Qing's power gradually declined while Huo Qubing became more prominent.
Many of Wei Qing's old friends and guests went to seek refuge with Huo Qubing, and most of them received official titles, but Ren An refused to leave.
Huo Qubing was taciturn, courageous and daring to do anything.
Emperor Wu once asked him to learn the art of war from Wu Qi and Sun Wu. He replied: When fighting, you only need to look at strategy, and there is no need to learn ancient art of war.
Emperor Wu built a mansion for him and asked him to check it out. He replied: If the Huns are not eliminated, there will be no home for them.
Therefore, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty paid more attention to and favored him.
However, Huo Qubing had been serving as a servant by the emperor's side since he was very young. He was used to being pampered by nobles and did not care much about the soldiers.
When he led his troops on an expedition, the emperor would send eunuchs to bring him dozens of carts of daily necessities. When he came back, he would throw away the remaining rice and meat, but some of the soldiers would starve.
When fighting outside the Great Wall, the soldiers lacked military rations, and some were so hungry that they could not get up, but Huo Qubing still had to open a field to play football.
There are many such things.
General Wei Qing was a kind man, loved his soldiers, was humble and courteous, and relied on his kindness and meekness to please the emperor, but there was no one in the world who praised him.
Huo Qubing died in the third year after he sent troops in the fourth year of Yuanshou, that is, in the sixth year of Yuanshou.
Emperor Wu was very sad and dispatched soldiers in black clothes from the subordinate countries to line up from Chang'an to Maoling. A tomb was built for him in Mao Cemetery, shaped like Qilian Mountain.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
谥之并武与广地日景桓侯。
子嬗嗣。嬗字子侯，上爱之，幸其壮而将之。
为奉车都尉，从封泰山而薨。
无子，国除。
自去病死后，青长子宜春侯伉坐法失侯。
后五岁，伉弟二人，阴安侯不疑、发干侯登，皆坐酎金失侯。
后二岁，冠军侯国绝。
后四年，元封五年，青薨，谥曰烈侯。
子伉嗣，六年坐法免。
自青围单于后十四岁而卒，竟不复击匈奴者，以汉马少，又方南诛两越，东伐朝鲜，击羌、西南夷，以故久不伐胡。
初，青既尊贵，而平阳侯曹寿有恶疾就国，长公主问： 列侯谁贤者？
左右皆言大将军。
主笑曰： 此出吾家，常骑从我，奈何？
左右曰： 于今尊贵无比。
于是长公主风白皇后，皇后言之，上乃诏青尚平阳主。与主合葬，起冢象卢山云。
最大将军青凡七出击匈奴，斩捕首虏五万余级。
一与单于战，收河南地，置朔方郡。
再益封，凡万六千三百户；封三子为侯，侯千三百户，并之二万二百户。
其裨将及校尉侯者九人，为特将者十五人，李广、张骞、公孙贺、李蔡、曹襄、韩说、苏建皆自有传。
李息，郁郅人也，事景帝。
至武帝立八岁，为材官将军，军马邑；后六岁，为将军，出代；后三岁，为将军，从大将军出朔方：皆无功。
凡三为将军，其后常为大行。
公孙敖，义渠人，以郎事景帝。
至武帝立十二岁，为骑将军，出代，亡卒七千人，当斩，赎为庶人。
translation: 
He was given the title Mi, combining the two meanings of Wu and Guangdi and called him Marquis Jinghuan.
His son Huo Shan took the title of prince, and Huo Shan was named Zihou. Emperor Wu loved him and hoped that he would become a general when he grew up.
Huo Shen later served as the captain of Fengche and died while accompanying the emperor to offer sacrifices to Mount Tai.
Because Huo Shan had no sons, the feudal state was abolished.
After Huo Qubing's death, Wei Qing's eldest son, the Marquis of Yichun, Wei and his wife, were removed from the title of marquis for breaking the law.
Five years later, the two younger brothers of the Wei couple, the Marquis of Yin'an, Wei Buyi, and the Marquis of Fagan, Weideng, both lost their positions due to insufficient gold sacrifices.
Two years later, the feudal kingdom of champion Hou Huo Qubing cut off his successor.
Four years later, in the fifth year of Yuanfeng's reign, Wei Qing died and Mi was named Liehou.
The eldest son Wei and his wife inherited the title of marquis, but six years later they broke the law and were exempted from the title of marquis.
He died fourteen years after the self-defense Qingwei defeated the Shan. During this period, he did not attack the Xiongnu again because the Han Dynasty had few troops and horses. In addition, he conquered the two Vietnams in the south, conquered Korea, attacked the Qiang in the west, and conquered the southwestern barbarians. Therefore, he did not attack the Xiongnu for a long time.
At the beginning, after Wei Qing became famous, Cao Shou, the Marquis of Pingyang, suffered from a serious illness and returned to the feudal country. The eldest princess asked: Who is the most virtuous among the princes?
Everyone on the left and right talks about General Wei Qing.
The princess smiled and said: He grew up in my family and often followed me on horseback. What about him?
The people on the left and right said: Now you are extremely noble.
So the eldest princess told the queen what she wanted, and the queen told her truthfully. The emperor ordered Wei Qing to marry the eldest princess, and they were buried together after their death in a tomb built like Lushan Mountain.
General Wei Qing attacked the Xiongnu seven times in total, killing and capturing more than 50,000 enemies.
After fighting the Huns, they recovered the area south of Hetao and established Shuofang County.
Additional rewards will be added, totaling 16,300 households; the three sons will be granted the title of marquis, each with 1,300 households, for a total of 20,200 households.
Nine lieutenants and captains were appointed marquis, and fifteen specially dispatched generals. Li Guang, Zhang Qian, Gongsun He, Li Cai, Cao Xiang, Han Shuo, and Su Jian all had their own biographies.
Li Xi, a native of Yuzhi, served Emperor Jing.
Eight years after Emperor Wu took the throne, he was promoted to General Caiguan and stationed in the military district. Six years later, he was promoted to General and led his army to attack Baochao from Weisun. Three years later, he served as a general and accompanied the general to attack Xiuli, but he had no military exploits.
He served as a general three times and later often served as a diplomat.
Gongsun Ao, a native of Yiqu, served Emperor Jing as a Langguan.
In the twelfth year of Emperor Wu's accession to the throne, he was appointed as a cavalry general and sent troops from Dai County. Seven thousand people were killed because of the soldiers. He should be beheaded according to law and become a commoner after atonement.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
后五岁，以校尉从大将军，封合骑侯。
后一岁，以中将军从大将军再出定襄，无功。
后二岁，以将军出北地，后票骑期，当斩，赎为庶人。
后二岁，以校尉从大将军，无功。
后十四岁，以因杅将军筑受降城。
七岁，复以因杅将军再出击匈奴，至余吾，亡士多，下吏，当斩，诈死，亡居民间五、六岁。
后觉，复系。
坐妻为巫蛊，族。
凡四为将军。
李沮，云中人，事景帝。
武帝立十七岁，以左内史为强弩将军。
后一岁，复为强弩将军。
张次公，河东人，以校尉从大将军，封岸头侯。
其后太后崩，为将军，军北军。
后一岁，复从大将军。
凡再为将军，后坐法失侯。
赵信，以匈奴相国降，为侯，武帝立十八岁，为前将军，与匈奴战，败，降匈奴。
赵食其，礻殳祤人。
武帝立十八年，以主爵都尉从大将军，斩首六百六十级。
元狩三年，赐爵关内侯，黄金百斤。
明年，为右将军，从大将军出定襄，迷失道，当斩，赎为庶人。
郭昌，云中人，以校尉从大将军。
元封四年，以太中大夫为拔胡将军，屯朔方。
还击昆明，无功，夺印。
荀彘，太原广武人，以御见，侍中，用校尉数从大将军。
元封三年，为左将军击朝鲜，无功，坐捕楼船将军诛。
最票骑将军去病凡六出击匈奴，其四出以将军，斩首虏十一万余级。
浑邪王以众降数万，开河西酒泉之地，西方益少胡寇。
四益封，凡万七千七百户。
其校尉吏有功侯者六人，为将军者二人。
路博德，西河平州人，以右北平太守从票骑将军，封邳离侯。
票骑死后，博德以卫尉为伏波将军，伐破南越，益封。
其后坐法失侯。
为强弩都尉，屯居延，卒。
赵破奴，太原人。
尝亡入匈奴，已而归汉，为票骑将军司马。
出北地，封从票侯，坐酎金失侯。
后一岁，为匈河将军，攻胡至匈河水，无功。
后一岁，击虏楼兰王，后为浞野侯。
后六岁，以浚稽将军将二万骑击匈奴左王。
左王与战，兵八万骑围破奴，破奴为虏所得，遂没其军。
居匈奴中十岁，复与其太子安国亡入汉。
后坐巫蛊，族。
自卫氏兴，大将军青首封，其后支属五人为侯。
凡二十四岁而五侯皆夺国。
征和中，戾太子败，卫氏遂灭。
translation: 
Five years later, he followed the general as a school captain and was granted the title of Heqihou.
A year later, he followed the general as a lieutenant general and attacked Dingxiang again, but had no military exploits.
Two years later, as a general, he attacked the Northland and fell behind the hussar general. He wasted the opportunity to fight and should be executed. After atonement, he was made a civilian.
Two years later, he followed the general as a school captain, but without success.
Fourteen years later, he built the surrender city with the post of General Ingan.
Seven years later, he attacked the Huns again as General Yin Gan and arrived at Yuwu. Because the soldiers suffered too many casualties, he was handed over to the officials for trial and executed. He pretended to be dead and ran away, hiding among the people for five or six years.
After being discovered, he was imprisoned again.
Because his wife was implicated in the crime of witchcraft, the family was exterminated.
He served as general four times in total.
Li Ju, a native of Yunzhong, served Emperor Jing.
Seventeen years after Emperor Wu succeeded to the throne, he served as the strong crossbow general with the official position of Zuo Neishi.
A year later, he was appointed General Qiannu.
Zhang Cigong, a native of Hedong, followed the general as a school captain and was granted the title of Antou Marquis.
After the Queen Mother died, he was appointed as a general and garrisoned the Northern Army.
A year later, he followed the general.
He served as general twice, but later broke the law and lost his position.
Zhao Xin was demoted as the Xiongnu Prime Minister and was granted the title of Marquis. In the eighteenth year after Genzao succeeded to the throne, he served as a former general. When he fought with Bao Chu, he was defeated and surrendered to Li Chu.
Zhao Shiqi was a native of Panyue.
In the eighteenth year of Emperor Wu's succession to the throne, he followed the general as a lord and captain and killed 660 enemies.
In the third year of Yuanshou, he was given the title of Marquis of Guannai and a hundred catties of gold.
In the second year, he was appointed as the general on the right. He followed the general to attack and declare the enemy. If he lost his way, he should be beheaded and atone for his sins as a commoner.
Guo Chang, a native of Yunzhong, served as a lieutenant following the general.
In the fourth year of Yuanfeng's reign, Yi Taizhong, a senior official, became General Ba Hu and stationed in Shuofang.
After the troops withdrew, they attacked Kenlong again, but to no avail and took away military power.
Xun Shen was a native of Guangwu, Taiyuan. Because he was good at driving, he served as a servant and served as a lieutenant many times with the general.
In the third year of Wuqian's reign, he was promoted to General Zuo and led his army to attack Huang Dao, but in vain. He was executed for the crime of seizing General Lou Chuan.
General Huo Qubing attacked the Xiongnu six times in total, four of which were with the rank of general, killing and capturing more than 110,000 enemies.
King Hunxie led tens of thousands of people to surrender to the Han Dynasty and opened up the Jiuquan area in Hexi Province. The invasion of the Xiongnu from the west was further reduced.
He was rewarded four times for curing diseases, totaling 17,700 households.
Six of his subordinates, including captains and officers, were awarded the rank of marquis due to meritorious service, and two were promoted to generals.
Lu Bode, a native of Pingzhou, Xihe, served as the governor of Beiping on the right and followed General Hussar, and was granted the title of Marquis of Pili.
After the death of General Hussar, Bode was promoted from the official position of Weiwei to General Fubo. He defeated Zhidian and increased his rewards.
Later, he broke the law and lost his position.
Later, he was appointed Captain of Qiannu, stationed in the camp for a long time, and died in his post.
Bao Nu, a native of Taiyuan.
He once fled to the Xiongnu, and soon returned to the Han Dynasty, where he served as a hussar general and Sima.
He attacked the north and was granted the title of Marquis of Congpiao. He lost his position because he did not have enough gold for the sacrifice.
A year later, he was appointed general of the Xionghe River and attacked the Xiongnu to the water of the Xionghe River, but to no avail.
A year later, he captured King Loulan and was granted the title of Marquis of Zunye.
Six years later, General Junji led an army of 20,000 to attack the Xiongnu Zuo King.
The king of Zuo fought with him and surrounded Zhao Ponu with 80,000 cavalry. Ponu was captured and the entire army was wiped out.
After living in the Xiongnu for ten years, he fled back to the Han Dynasty with his prince Anguo.
Later, he committed the crime of witchcraft and his clan was reduced.
From the rise of the Wei family, the general Wei Qing was first granted the title of marquis, and later five of his descendants became marquises.
Twenty-four years later, all the five princes lost their feudal status.
During the Yanchi period, King Lu failed and Mi Sui perished.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
而霍去病弟光贵盛，自有传。
赞曰：苏建尝说责： 大将军至尊重，而天下之贤士大夫无称焉，愿将军观古名将所招选者，勉之哉！
青谢曰： 自魏其、武安之厚宾客，天子常切齿。
彼亲待士大夫，招贤黜不肖者，人主之柄也。
人臣奉法遵职而已，何与招士！
票骑亦方此意，为将如此。
translation: 
There is another legend that Huo Qubing's younger brother, Riguang, was a noble person.
Zan said: Ji Jian once reproached Jie Gui and said: The general is very noble, but no one of the wise scholar-officials in the world praises you. I hope the general will observe the methods of ancient famous generals in recruiting wise men and encourage yourself more!
Wei Qing thanked him and said: After the White Wei Hous Dou Ying and Wu'an Hou Tian recruited many guests, the emperor often felt resentful.
This practice of treating scholar-bureaucrats favorably, recruiting virtuous people, and rejecting unworthy ones is the power of the ruler.
The ministers only obey the law and perform their duties, so why bother to recruit scholars?
The hussar generals also imitated this idea and restrained themselves prudently. This is how generals Wei and Huo acted as generals.


