Chunk 0: 
original: 
李将军广者，陇西成纪人也。
其先曰李信，秦时为将，逐得燕太子丹者也。
故槐里，徙成纪。
广家世世受射。
孝文帝十四年，匈奴大入萧关，而广以良家子从军击胡，用善骑射，杀首虏多，为汉中郎。
广从弟李蔡亦为郎，皆为武骑常侍，秩八百石。
尝从行，有所冲陷折关及格猛兽，而文帝曰： 惜乎，子不遇时！如令子当高帝时，万户侯岂足道哉！
及孝景初立，广为陇西都尉，徙为骑郎将。
吴楚军时，广为骁骑都尉，从太尉亚夫击吴楚军，取旗，显功名昌邑下。
以梁王授广将军印，还，赏不行。
徙为上谷太守，匈奴日以合战。
典属国公孙昆邪为上泣曰： 李广才气，天下无双，自负其能，数与虏敌战，恐亡之。
於是乃徙为上郡太守。
後广转为边郡太守，徙上郡。
尝为陇西、北地、雁门、代郡、云中太守，皆以力战为名。
匈奴大入上郡，天子使中贵人从广勒习兵击匈奴。
中贵人将骑数十纵，见匈奴三人，与战。三人还射，伤中贵人，杀其骑且尽。
中贵人走广。广曰： 是必射雕者也。
广乃遂从百骑往驰三人。
三人亡马步行，行数十里。
广令其骑张左右翼，而广身自射彼三人者，杀其二人，生得一人，果匈奴射雕者也。
已缚之上马，望匈奴有数千骑，见广，以为诱骑，皆惊，上山陈。
广之百骑皆大恐，欲驰还走。
广曰： 吾去大军数十里，今如此以百骑走，匈奴追射我立尽。
translation: 
General Li Guang was a native of Chengji County, Longxi County.
His ancestor was Li Xin, a general of the Qin State who captured Prince Dan of Yan.
His home was originally in Huaili County, but later moved to Chengji.
The art of archery has been passed down from generation to generation in Li Guang's family.
In the fourteenth year of Emperor Wen's reign, the Huns invaded Xiaoguan with great force. Li Guang joined the army to fight against the Huns as a son of a good family. Because he was good at riding and archery, and killed many enemy heads, he was appointed Zhonglang.
Li Guang's cousin Li Cai was also appointed as Zhonglang. Both of them were appointed as regular servants of the martial arts, with an annual salary of 800 shi of food.
Li Guang once traveled with the emperor, often charging into battle, resisting enemies, and killing ferocious beasts. Emperor Wen said: What a pity! You haven't encountered a good opportunity. If you catch up with the Emperor Gaozu's era and be granted the title of Marquis of Ten Thousand Households, what's the point?
After Emperor Jing came to the throne, Li Guang was appointed as the Captain of Longxi, and then as the Cavalry General.
During the rebellion of the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu, Li Guang served as the captain of Xiaoqi and followed the Taiwei Zhou Yafu to fight back against the Wu and Chu rebels. He captured the enemy's flag at the foot of Changyi City and became famous.
However, because King Xiao of Liang privately awarded Li Guang the General's Seal, the court did not reward him after he returned to the court.
He was appointed as the governor of Shanggu, and the Huns came to fight every day.
Sun Kunxie, the Duke of Dian, cried to the emperor and said: Li Guang's talent is unparalleled in the world. He relies on his talent to fight the enemy head-on many times. I'm afraid he will lose this good general.
So he was appointed as the prefect of Shangjun.
Later, Li Guang was transferred to the prefecture of the border counties, and then to the prefecture of Shangjun.
He served as the prefect of Longxi, Beidi, Yanmen, Daijun, and Yunzhong, and was famous for his vigorous fighting.
The Huns invaded Shangjun in a large scale, and the emperor sent a eunuch to study military affairs with Li Guang and fight against the Huns.
The eunuch led dozens of cavalry on horseback. When they encountered three Huns, they fought with them. The three Huns turned around and fired arrows, wounding the eunuch and almost killing all his cavalry.
The eunuch fled back to Li Guang. Li Guang said: "This must be a Xiongnu expert in shooting vultures."
Li Guang then took a hundred cavalry to chase the three Huns.
The three men had no horses and traveled on foot.
After walking for dozens of miles, Li Guang ordered his cavalry to spread out to the left and right and outflank them in two directions. He personally shot the three men, shot two to death and captured one alive. As expected, it was the Huns' eagle shooter.
After tying him onto his horse, he saw thousands of Huns cavalry in the distance. When they saw Li Guang, they thought he was a cavalryman luring the enemy. They were surprised and ran up the mountain to set up their formation.
Li Guang's hundreds of cavalry were also frightened and wanted to run back.
Li Guang said: We are dozens of miles away from the main army. According to the current situation, as soon as our hundred cavalry run away, the Huns will chase and shoot us, and they will be killed immediately.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
今我留，匈奴必以我为大军诱，必不敢击我。
广令诸骑曰： 前！
前未到匈奴陈二里所，止，令曰： 皆下马解鞍！
其骑曰： 虏多且近，即有急，柰匈？
广曰： 彼虏以我为走，今皆解鞍以示不走，用坚其意。
於是胡骑遂不敢击。
有白马将出护其兵，李广上马与十馀骑饹射杀胡白马将，而复还至其骑中，解鞍，令士皆纵马卧。
是时会暮，胡兵终怪之，不敢击。
夜半时，胡兵亦以为汉有伏军於旁欲夜取之，胡皆引兵而去。
平旦，李广乃归其大军。大军不知广所之，故弗从。
居久之，孝景崩，武帝立，左右以为广名将也，於是广以上郡太守为未央卫尉，而程不识亦为长乐卫尉。
程不识故与李广俱以边太守将军屯。
及出击胡，而广行无部伍行陈，就善水草屯，舍止，人人自便，不击刀斗以自卫，莫府省约文书籍事，然亦远斥候，未尝遇害。
程不识正部曲行伍营陈，击刀斗，士吏治军簿至明，军不得休息，然亦未尝遇害。
不识曰： 李广军极简易，然虏卒犯之，无以禁也；而其士卒亦佚乐，咸乐为之死。
我军虽烦扰，然虏亦不得犯我。
是时汉边郡李广、程不识皆为名将，然匈奴畏李广之略，士卒亦多乐从李广而苦程不识。
程不识孝景时以数直谏为太中大夫。为人廉，谨於文法。
後汉以马邑城诱单于，使大军伏马邑旁谷，而广为骁骑将军，领属护军将军。
是时单于觉之，去，汉军皆无功。
translation: 
If we stay, the Xiongnu will definitely think that we are a large army coming to lure the enemy, and they will not dare to attack us.
Li Guang ordered the cavalry: Advance!
The cavalry moved forward, and when they reached a place about two miles away from the slave position, they stopped and ordered: Everyone, dismount and unsaddle!
The cavalry said: There are so many enemies and they are so close. What should we do if there is an emergency?
Li Guang said: Those enemies thought that we would run away, but now we have taken off our saddles to show that we will not run away. This will make them more convinced that we are soldiers who lure the enemy.
So the Huns cavalry finally did not dare to attack.
A Hun general riding a white horse came out to guard his soldiers. Li Guang immediately mounted his horse and galloped with more than a dozen cavalry. He shot the Hun general riding a white horse to death. Then he returned to his cavalry team, took off the saddle, and asked the soldiers to let go of their horses and lie down casually.
It was dusk at this time, and the Xiongnu army always felt strange and did not dare to attack.
In the middle of the night, the Xiongnu soldiers thought that the Han Dynasty had an ambush nearby and wanted to sneak up on them at night, so the Xiongnu troops retreated.
The next morning, Li Guang returned to his army camp. The army did not know where Li Guang was going, so they were unable to respond later.
Several years later, Emperor Jing died and Emperor Wu ascended the throne. All the ministers on the left and right thought that Li Guang was a famous general, so Li Guang was transferred from the prefect of Shangjun to the chief of the imperial guard of Weiyang Palace, and Cheng Bushi also came to be the chief of the imperial guard of Changle Palace.
Cheng Bushi and Li Guang both served as governors of border counties and were also in charge of military garrison.
When it came time to attack the Xiongnu, Li Guang marched without strict formations and formations. He stationed troops near places with abundant water and lush grass, and set up camps and lodgings, which was convenient for everyone. He did not call for self-defense at night. The shogunate simplified various documents and books, but he placed sentries far away, so he did not encounter danger.
Cheng Bushi had strict requirements on the organization of the troops, marching columns, and garrison formations. He kept watch at night, and the military clerks had to wait until dawn to process performance appraisals and other official documents and books. The troops had no rest, but they never encountered danger.
Cheng Bushi said: Li Guang's army is simple and easy, but if the enemy suddenly attacks him, he will be unable to stop him; but his soldiers are comfortable and happy, and they are willing to die for him.
Although my army is busy with military affairs, the enemy does not dare to invade me.
At that time, Li Guang and Cheng Bushi at the border of the Han Dynasty were both famous generals, but the Huns were afraid of Li Guang's strategy, and most of the soldiers were willing to follow Li Guang and suffered the hardship of following Cheng Bushi.
During the reign of Emperor Jing, Cheng Bushi was awarded the title of Taizhong Dafu because he repeatedly spoke out and remonstrated. He was an honest man and strictly abided by the court documents and laws.
Later, the Han Dynasty used the city of Mayi to lure Chanyu and sent a large army to ambush in the valley near Mayi. Li Guang was appointed as the general of Xiaoqi and was controlled by the guard general Han Anguo.
At that time, Shanyu discovered the Han army's plan and ran away.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
其後四岁，广以卫尉为将军，出雁门击匈奴。
匈奴兵多，破败广军，生得广。
单于素闻广贤，令曰： 得李广必生致之。
胡骑得广，广时伤病，置广两马间，络而盛卧广。
行十馀里，广详死，睨其旁有一胡兒骑善马，广暂腾而上胡兒马，因推堕兒，取其弓，鞭马南驰数十里，复得其馀军，因引而入塞。
匈奴捕者骑数百追之，广行取胡兒弓，射杀追骑，以故得脱。
於是至汉，汉下广吏。
吏当广所失亡多，为虏所生得，当斩，赎为庶人。
顷之，家居数岁。广家与故颍阴侯孙屏野居蓝田南山中射猎。
尝夜从一骑出，从人田间饮。
还至霸陵亭，霸陵尉醉，呵止广。
广骑曰： 故李将军。
尉曰： 今将军尚不得夜行，何乃故也！
止广宿亭下。
居无何，匈奴入杀辽西太守，败韩将军，後韩将军徙右北平。
於是天子乃召拜广为右北平太守。
广即请霸陵尉与俱，至军而斩之。
广居右北平，匈奴闻之，号曰 汉之飞将军 ，避之数岁，不敢入右北平。
广出猎，见草中石，以为虎而射之，中石没镞，视之石也。
因复更射之，终不能复入石矣。
广所居郡闻有虎，尝自射之。
及居右北平射虎，虎腾伤广，广亦竟射杀之。
广廉，得赏赐辄分其麾下，饮食与士共之。
终广之身，为二千石四十馀年，家无馀财，终不言家产事。
广为人长，猿臂，其善射亦天性也，虽其子孙他人学者，莫能及广。
广讷口少言，与人居则画地为军陈，射阔狭以饮。
专以射为戏，竟死。
广之将兵，乏绝之处，见水，士卒不尽饮，广不近水，士卒不尽食，广不尝食。
宽缓不苛，士以此爱乐为用。
其射，见敌急，非在数十步之内，度不中不发，发即应弦而倒。
用此，其将兵数困辱，其射猛兽亦为所伤云。
居顷之，石建卒，於是上召广代建为郎中令。
元朔六年，广复为後将军，从大将军军出定襄，击匈奴。
诸将多中首虏率，以功为侯者，而广军无功。
後二岁，广以郎中令将四千骑出右北平，博望侯张骞将万骑与广俱，异道。
行可数百里，匈奴左贤王将四万骑围广，广军士皆恐，广乃使其子敢往驰之。
敢独与数十骑驰，直贯胡骑，出其左右而还，告广曰： 胡虏易与耳。
军士乃安。
广为圜陈外乡，胡急击之，矢下如雨。
汉兵死者过半，汉矢且尽。
广乃令士持满毋发，而广身自以大黄射其裨将，杀数人，胡虏益解。
会日暮，吏士皆无人色，而广意气自如，益治军。
军中自是服其勇也。
明日，复力战，而博望侯军亦至，匈奴军乃解去。
汉军罢，弗能追。
是时广军几没，罢归。
汉法，博望侯留迟後期，当死，赎为庶人。
广军功自如，无赏。
初，广之从弟李蔡与广俱事孝文帝。
translation: 
None of the Han troops had any military exploits. Four years later, Li Guang was appointed as a general from the guard and went out to Yanmen Pass to attack the Huns.
The Huns had more troops and defeated Li Guang's army and captured Li Guang alive.
Shan Yu usually heard that Li Guang was very talented, so he ordered: If Li Guang is captured, he must be brought alive.
The Huns cavalry captured Li Guang. At that time, Li Guang was injured and injured, so they placed Li Guang between two horses and placed him in a rope net bag to lie down.
After walking for more than ten miles, Li Guang pretended to be dead and squinted when he saw a Hun boy riding a good horse next to him. Li Guang suddenly jumped on the Hun boy's horse, took advantage of the situation to push the boy off, took his bow, and galloped southward for dozens of miles. He met the remaining troops of his again, and led them into the pass.
The Huns dispatched hundreds of cavalry to chase him. As Li Guang fled, he picked up the bow of the Hun boy and shot the chasing cavalry, so he was able to escape.
So he returned to the capital of the Han Dynasty, and the court handed Li Guang over to the law enforcement officials.
The law enforcement officer ruled that Li Guang had suffered too many casualties, and he himself was captured alive by the enemy and should be beheaded. Li Guang used money and materials to atone for his death penalty and reduced his position to serve the people.
In the blink of an eye, Li Guang has been living at home for several years. Li Guang's family and Guan Qiang, the grandson of the late Yingyin Hou Guanying, live in seclusion in Lantian and often go hunting in Nanshan.
One night he went out with an entourage on horseback and drank with others in the fields.
When he came back, he walked to Ba Ling Pavilion. Ba Lingwei was drunk and shouted loudly, prohibiting Li Guang from passing.
Li Guang's entourage said: This is the former General Li.
Tingwei said: The current general is not allowed to pass, let alone his predecessor!
So he detained Li Guang and asked him to stay under Ba Ling Pavilion.
Not long after, the Xiongnu invaded and killed the prefect of Liaoxi and defeated General Han. General Han moved to Youbeiping.
So the emperor summoned Li Guang and appointed him as the right governor of Beiping.
Li Guang immediately asked to send Lieutenant Ba Ling to join him, and he was killed when he arrived in the army.
Li Guang was stationed in Youbeiping. When the Xiongnu heard about it, they called him the "Flying General of the Han Dynasty" and avoided him for several years, not daring to invade Youbeiping.
Li Guang went out hunting and saw a stone in the grass. He thought it was a tiger and shot at it.
Then he ejaculated again, but after all, he couldn't ejaculate anymore.
Li Guang had been stationed in various counties. When he heard about tigers, he often went to shoot them himself.
When he was stationed in Youbeiping, he went to shoot the tiger again. The tiger jumped up and injured Li Guang. Li Guang also shot the tiger to death in the end.
Li Guang was an upright official, and he distributed rewards to his subordinates. He always shared food and drink with the soldiers.
From his life to his death, Li Guang served as an official with a salary of two thousand stone for more than forty years. He had no extra property in his family and never talked about family property.
Li Guang was tall and had ape-like arms. He was good at archery and was gifted. Even if his descendants or outsiders learned from him, no one could compare with him.
Li Guang's speech was slow and he didn't talk much. When he was with others, he would draw military formations on the ground, and then shoot arrows. Whoever hit the denser rows or the wider rows would be punished with drinking.
He specialized in archery as a pastime until his death.
When Li Guang led his troops, he encountered a place where food and water were short of food. He found water, but the soldiers had not drank all of it, so he did not go near the water. The soldiers had not yet fully eaten, and Li Guang did not taste a morsel of food.
Li Guang was kind, gentle and not harsh to the soldiers, so the soldiers loved him and were willing to use him.
Li Guang's method of archery is to not shoot if he sees the enemy approaching and if he is not within a few dozen steps, he will probably miss the target. As soon as it is fired, the enemy will immediately fall to the ground with the sound of the bowstring.
Therefore, he led his troops to be trapped and humiliated several times, and he was also injured by wild beasts when shooting at them.
Not long after, Shi Jian passed away, so the emperor summoned Li Guang and asked him to succeed Shi Jian as Lang Zhongling.
In the sixth year of Yuanshuo, Li Guang was appointed as the rear general. He followed General Che Weiqing's army out of Dingxiang to conquer the Xiongnu.
Many generals were made marquises for their military merits because they killed the enemy's heads in compliance with the prescribed amount, but Li Guang's army had no military merits.
Two years later, Li Guang, who held the title of Langzhongling, led 4,000 cavalry from Youbeiping. Bowang Marquis Zhang Qian led 10,000 cavalry to join Li Guang in two separate routes.
After marching for several hundred miles, King Zuoxian of the Xiongnu led 40,000 cavalry and surrounded Li Guang. Li Guang's soldiers were very frightened, so Li Guang sent his son Li Gan to ride towards the Xiongnu army.
Li Gan galloped alone with dozens of cavalry, passed through the Xiongnu cavalry formation, and protruded from its left and right wings. He came back and reported to Li Guang: "The enemy Huns are very easy to deal with!"
The soldiers felt relieved.
Li Guang formed a circular formation, facing outward. The Huns attacked fiercely, and arrows rained down.
More than half of the Han soldiers were dead, and their arrows were all used up.
Li Guang ordered the soldiers to draw their bows fully and not to release arrows. Li Guang personally used the big yellow crossbow to shoot at the Huns' lieutenants, killing several of them, and the Huns army gradually dispersed.
It was getting late at this time, and the officers and soldiers were all expressionless, but Li Guang looked calm and paid more attention to rectifying the army.
From then on, everyone in the army admired his bravery.
The next day, they went to fight hard again. Bowang Hou's army also arrived, and the Huns retreated.
The Han army was very tired and could not pursue him.
At that time, Li Guang's army was almost completely wiped out, so he had to withdraw his troops and return to the court.
According to the laws of the Han Dynasty, if Bowang Hou marched slowly and delayed the deadline, he should be sentenced to death, use money to atone for his crime, and be reduced to a civilian.
Li Guang's merits and demerits were equal to each other, so he was not rewarded.
At first, Li Guang's cousin Li Cai and Li Guang served Emperor Wen together.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
景帝时，蔡积功劳至二千石。
孝武帝时，至代相。
以元朔五年为轻车将车，从大将军击右贤王，有功中率，封为乐安侯。
元狩二年中，代公孙弘为丞相。
蔡为人在下中，名声出广下甚远，然广不得爵邑，官不过九卿，而蔡为列侯，位至三公。
诸广之军吏及士卒或取封侯。
广尝与望气王朔燕语，曰： 自汉击匈奴而广未尝不在其中，而诸部校尉以下，才能不及中人，然以击胡军功取侯者数十人，而广不为後人，然无尺寸之功以得封邑者，何也？
岂吾相不当侯邪？
且固命也？
朔曰： 将军自念，岂尝有所恨乎？
广曰： 吾尝为陇西守，羌尝反，吾诱而降，降者八百馀人，吾诈而同日杀之。
至今大恨独此耳。
朔曰： 祸莫大於杀已降，此乃将军所以不得侯者也。
後二岁，大将军、骠骑将军大出击匈奴，广数自请行。
天子以为老，弗许；良久乃许之，以为前将军。
是岁，元狩四年也。
广既从大将军青击匈奴，既出塞，青捕虏知单于所居，乃自以精兵走之，而令广并於右将军军，出东道。
东道少回远，而大军行水草少，其势不屯行。
广自请曰： 臣部为前将军，今大将军乃徙令臣出东道，且臣结发而与匈奴战，今乃一得当单于，臣原居前，先死单于。
大将军青亦阴受上诫，以为李广老，数奇，毋令当单于，恐不得所欲。
而是时公孙敖新失侯，为中将军从大将军，大将军亦欲使敖与俱当单于，故徙前将军广。
广时知之，固自辞於大将军。
translation: 
By the time of Emperor Jing, Li Cai had accumulated merit and obtained an official position with an annual salary of two thousand dan.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, he served as the prime minister of the country.
Five years before Yuan Shuo, Li Cai was appointed as General of Qingchao. He followed General Wei Qing to attack King Youxian of the Xiongnu. He met the requirement of beheading the enemy and was named Marquis of Le'an.
Two years ago in Yuanshou, he was appointed prime minister on behalf of Gongsun Hong.
Li Cai's talents were among the lower class, and his reputation was far from that of Li Guang. However, Li Guang was not granted a title or land, and his official position was not higher than Jiuqing, but Li Cai was made a lord, and his official position reached Sangong.
Some of Li Guang's officers and soldiers also received the title of marquis.
Li Guang once chatted privately with the astrologer Wang Shuo and said: Since the Han Dynasty attacked the Xiongnu, I have never failed to participate. However, the talents of the officers below the rank of captain in each army were not as good as those of average people. However, there were dozens of people who were made marquises for their military merits in attacking the Huns. I, Li Guang, am not worse than others, but I don’t have any merit to obtain the fief. Why is this?
Shouldn't I be granted the title of Marquis because of my fortune?
Or is this the way it was meant to be?
Wang Shuo said: General, think about it yourself, has there ever been anything worth regretting?
Li Guang said: I was once the governor of Longxi. The Qiang people rebelled once. I tricked them into surrendering. More than 800 people surrendered. I used deception to kill them all on the same day.
To this day, my biggest regret is this incident.
Wang Shuo said: There is no greater disaster than killing those who have surrendered. This is why generals cannot be made marquises.
Two years later, General Wei Qing and General Huo Qubing led a large-scale expedition against the Xiongnu. Li Guang personally requested several times to accompany them.
The emperor thought that he was old and did not agree. It took a long time before he allowed him to go and made him a former general.
This year is the fourth year of Yuanshou.
Li Guang soon followed the general Wei Qing on an expedition against the Huns. After leaving the border fortress, Wei Qing captured the enemy soldiers and knew where the Shan Yu lived. He led his elite troops to chase the Shan Yu and ordered Li Guang to merge with the troops of General You and attack from the east.
The east road is somewhat circuitous, and the army is walking in a place where there is a lack of water and grass, so it is inevitable that they will not be able to march together.
Li Guang personally requested: "My position is a former general, but now the general ordered me to send troops from the east route. Besides, I have been fighting against the Xiongnu since I was a boy, and I have only got a chance to confront the Shanyu today. I am willing to be a vanguard and fight to the death with the Shanyu first."
General Wei Qing was secretly warned by the emperor, thinking that Li Guang was old and had a bad fate, so he should not let him confront the Chanyu, as he might not be able to realize his wish to capture the Chanyu.
At that time, Gongsun Ao had just lost his title of Marquis and was appointed lieutenant general, accompanying the general on the expedition. The general also wanted Gongsun Ao to fight against Shanyu with him, so he deliberately transferred former general Li Guang away.
Li Guang also knew the inside story at the time, so he insisted on asking the general to withdraw the transfer order.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
大将军不听，令长史封书与广之莫府，曰： 急诣部，如书。
广不谢大将军而起行，意甚愠怒而就部，引兵与右将军食其合军出东道。
军亡导，或失道，後大将军。
大将军与单于接战，单于遁走，弗能得而还。
南绝幕，遇前将军、右将军。
广已见大将军，还入军。
大将军使长史持糒醪遗广，因问广、食其失道状，青欲上书报天子军曲折。
广未对，大将军使长史急责广之幕府对簿。
广曰： 诸校尉无罪，乃我自失道。吾今自上簿。
至莫府，广谓其麾下曰； 广结发与匈奴大小七十馀战，今幸从大将军出接单于兵，而大将军又徙广部行回远，而又迷失道，岂非天哉！
且广年六十馀矣，终不能复对刀笔之吏。
遂引刀自刭。
广军士大夫一军皆哭。
百姓闻之，知与不知，无老壮皆为垂涕。
而右将军独下吏，当死，赎为庶人。
广子三人，曰当户、椒、敢，为郎。
天子与韩嫣戏，嫣少不逊，当户击嫣，嫣走。於是天子以为勇。
当户早死，拜椒为代郡太守，皆先广死。
当户有遗腹子名陵。
广死军时，敢从骠骑将军。
广死明年，李蔡以丞相坐侵孝景园壖地，当下吏治，蔡亦自杀，不对狱，国除。
李敢以校尉从骠骑将军击胡左贤王，力战，夺左贤王鼓旗，斩首多，赐爵关内侯，食邑二百户，代广为郎中令。
顷之，怨大将军青之恨其父，乃击伤大将军，大将军匿讳之。
居无何，敢从上雍，至甘泉宫猎。
骠骑将军去病与青有亲，射杀敢。
去病时方贵幸，上讳云鹿触杀之。
居岁馀，去病死。
而敢有女为太子中人，爱幸，敢男禹有宠於太子，然好利，李氏陵迟衰微矣。
李陵既壮，选为建章监，监诸骑。
translation: 
The general did not agree to his request, and ordered the chief historian to write a document and send it to Li Guang's shogunate, and said to him: Hurry up to the right general's chariot troops and follow the document.
Li Guang set off without saying goodbye to the general. He was very angry and went to the military headquarters. He led his troops and joined forces with Zhao Shiqi, the right general of the chariot army, and set off from the east road.
The army has no guide and sometimes loses its way and ends up falling behind the general.
The general fought with Shanyu, but Shanyu fled, and Wei Qing had no choice but to return his troops.
The general traveled south across the desert and met the former general and the right general.
After Li Guang paid an audience with the general, he returned to his army.
The general sent Chang Shi to bring dry food and wine to Li Guang. The envoy asked Li Guang and Zhao Shiqi about the situation of losing their way. Wei Qing wanted to write a letter to the emperor reporting detailed military information.
Li Guang didn't answer. The general sent Chang Shi to urgently order the personnel of Li Guang shogunate to go for trial and confrontation.
Li Guang said: The captains are not guilty. It was me who lost my way. Now I will personally go to the shogunate to be tried and confronted.
When he arrived at the shogunate of the general, Li Guang said to his subordinates: I have fought more than seventy battles with the Xiongnu since I was a boy, and now I have the honor to follow the general on an expedition to fight the Shanyu army. However, the general sent my troops to take a circuitous and long road, and they lost their way. Isn't it God's will?
Besides, I am already over sixty years old. After all, I can no longer bear the insults of those swordsmen and pen officials.
So he drew his sword and killed himself.
All the soldiers in Li Guang's army cried bitterly.
When the people heard the news, whether they knew him or not, whether they were old or young, they all shed tears for Li Guang.
The right general Zhao Shiqi was handed over to the law enforcement officials alone, and he should be sentenced to death. He should use property to atone for his crime and be reduced to a civilian.
Li Guang had three sons named Danghu, Jiao and Gan, all of whom were appointed Langguan.
Once the emperor was playing with the jester Han Yan, and Han Yan acted a little wanton. Li Danghu went to beat Han Yan, but Han Yan ran away, so the emperor thought Danghu was brave.
Li Danghu died early, and Li Jiao was named the prefect of Daijun. Both of them died before Li Guang.
Li Danghu had a posthumous son named Li Ling.
When Li Guang died in the army, Li Gan was following the hussar general Huo Qubing.
In the second year after Li Guang's death, Li Cai used his position as prime minister to occupy the open space on both sides of the road in front of Emperor Jing's mausoleum. He was convicted and should be sent to law officials for investigation. However, Li Cai did not want to be tried and confronted and committed suicide. His feudal state was abolished.
Li Gan served as a school lieutenant and accompanied General Hussar to attack King Zuoxian of the Huns. He fought hard, captured King Zuoxian's war drums and flags, and beheaded many enemies. As a result, he was granted the title of Marquis of Guannei and granted 200 households in the city. He succeeded Li Guang as Langzhongling.
Soon, Li Gan resented the general Wei Qing for causing his father to die of hatred, so he wounded the general. The general concealed the incident and did not make it public.
Not long after that, Li Gan followed the emperor to Yong County and went hunting in Ganquan Palace.
General Huo Qubing was related to Wei Qing, so he shot Li Gan to death.
Huo Qubing was a noble and favored man at the time, so the emperor concealed the truth and said that Li Gan was killed by a deer.
More than a year later, Huo Qubing passed away.
Li Gan had a daughter who was the prince's concubine and was very favored. Li Gan's son Li Yu was also favored by the prince. However, he was greedy for money and profit, and the Li family gradually declined.
When Li Ling reached his prime, he was appointed as the supervisor of Jianzhang Camp, supervising all the cavalry.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
善射，爱士卒。天子以为李氏世将，而使将八百骑。
尝深入匈奴二千馀里，过居延视地形，无所见虏而还。
拜为骑都尉，将丹阳楚人五千人，教射酒泉、张掖以屯卫胡。
数岁，天汉二年秋，贰师将军李广利将三万骑击匈奴右贤王於祁连天山，而使陵将其射士步兵五千人出居延北可千馀里，欲以分匈奴兵，毋令专走贰师也。
陵既至期还，而单于以兵八万围击陵军。
陵军五千人，兵矢既尽，士死者过半，而所杀伤匈奴亦万馀人。
且引且战，连斗八日，还未到居延百馀里，匈奴遮狭绝道，陵食乏而救兵不到，虏急击招降陵。
陵曰： 无面目报陛下。
遂降匈奴。
其兵尽没，馀亡散得归汉者四百馀人。
单于既得陵，素闻其家声，及战又壮，乃以其女妻陵而贵之。
汉闻，族陵母妻子。
自是之後，李氏名败，而陇西之士居门下者皆用为耻焉。
太史公曰：传曰 其身正，不令而行；其身不正，虽令不从 。
其李将军之谓也？
余睹李将军悛悛如鄙人，口不能道辞。及死之日，天下知与不知，皆为尽哀。
彼其忠实心诚信於士大夫也？
谚曰 桃李不言，下自成蹊 。
此言虽小，可以谕大也。
translation: 
He was good at archery and loved to nurse soldiers. The emperor believed that the Li family would be generals for generations, so he asked Li Ling to lead 800 cavalry.
Li Ling once penetrated more than two thousand miles into the Xiongnu territory, crossed the Juyan Sea, observed the terrain, and came back without encountering any enemies.
He was later named Cavalry Captain and commanded 5,000 Chu soldiers in Danyang. He taught archery in Jiuquan and Zhangye and stationed them there to guard against the Huns.
A few years later, in the autumn of the second year of Tianhan, Li Guangli, the general of the Second Division, led 30,000 cavalry to attack King Youxian of the Xiongnu in the Qilian Mountains. Emperor Wu sent Li Ling to lead 5,000 infantry archers and sent troops to a place about a thousand miles north of Juyanhai. He wanted to use this method to disperse the enemy's forces and prevent them from dealing with the General of the Second Division.
Li Ling had to return his troops by the scheduled time, but Chanyu surrounded and intercepted Li Ling's army with 80,000 troops.
Li Ling's army only had 5,000 men. They had shot all their arrows and most of the soldiers were dead, but they also killed more than 10,000 Huns.
Li Ling's army fought while retreating. They fought continuously for eight days and returned to a place more than a hundred miles away from Juyanhai. The Huns soldiers blocked the narrow valley and cut off their return. Li Ling's army lacked food and reinforcements were not available. The enemy stepped up their attack and persuaded Li Ling to surrender.
Li Ling said: I have no face to repay the emperor!
So he surrendered to the Huns.
His army was completely wiped out, and only more than 400 people were able to escape and return to the Han Dynasty.
After Chanyu got Li Ling, he had heard about the reputation of Li Ling's family and was very brave in war, so he married his daughter to Li Ling to make him noble.
When the Han Dynasty found out, they killed Li Ling's mother, wife, children and his entire family.
From then on, the reputation of the Li family fell into decline, and people in Longxi who had been guests of the Li family were all ashamed of it.
Tai Shigong said: "The Analects of Confucius" says that if a person in a superior position behaves correctly, things can be carried out without giving orders; if he behaves improperly, no one will obey even if he gives orders.
This is General Li!
The General Li I saw was honest and kind, like a country boy, and was not good at talking. But on the day of his death, people all over the world, whether they knew him or not, mourned him heartily.
His loyal character has indeed gained the trust of the soldiers!
The proverb says: Peach and plum trees cannot speak, but a path is naturally trampled under the tree.
Although this is a trivial matter, it can be used to describe a big principle.


