Chunk 0: 
original: 
《六经》之道同归，而《礼》、《乐》之用为急。
治身者斯须忘礼，则暴嫚入之矣；为国者一朝失礼，则荒乱及之矣。
人函天、地、阴、阳之气，有喜、怒、哀、乐之情。
天禀其性而不能节也，圣人能为之节而不能绝也，故象天、地而制礼、乐，所以通神明，立人伦，正情性，节万事者也。
人性有男女之情，妒忌之别，为制婚姻之礼；有交接长幼之序，为制乡饮之礼；有哀死思远之情，为制丧祭之礼；有尊尊敬上之心，为制朝觐之礼。
哀有哭踊之节，乐有歌舞之容，正人足以副其诚，邪人足以防其失。
故婚姻之礼废，则夫妇之道苦，而淫辟之罪多；乡饮之礼废，则长幼之序乱，而争斗之狱蕃；丧祭之礼废，则骨肉之恩薄，而背死忘先者众；朝聘之礼废，则君臣之位失，而侵陵之渐起。
translation: 
The principles mentioned in the "Six Classics" all achieve the same goal, and the functions of "Li" and "Yue" are particularly urgent.
Once those who cultivate themselves forget the propriety, they will suffer from evil and contempt; once those who govern the country lose the propriety, desolation and disorder will come.
Human beings contain the yin and yang of heaven and earth, and have emotions of joy, anger, sorrow and joy.
Heaven upholds its characteristics but cannot exercise restraint, but saints can use it restrainedly and without interruption. Therefore, rituals and music are made according to the laws of heaven and earth to communicate with gods, establish human ethics, correct human temperament, and regulate all things.
It is human nature to have differences between men and women and to be jealous of others, so we have formulated the etiquette of marriage; it is human nature to have the order of interaction between elders and younger generations, so we have formulated the drinking ceremony in the countryside;
Grief has the etiquette of crying and mourning, joy has the appearance of singing and dancing, which is enough for the upright person to be sincere, and it is enough for the evil person to prevent mistakes.
Therefore, if the marriage etiquette is abolished, then the etiquette between husband and wife will be coarse, and the sins of debauchery and lewdness between men and women will increase; if the country drinking ceremony is abolished, then the order of elders and younger generations will be confused, and there will be more lawsuits; If the etiquette is abolished, the kindness between flesh and blood will be weakened, and more and more people will abandon the dead and forget their ancestors; if the etiquette of meeting the emperor is abolished, then the positions of the monarch and his ministers will be wrong, and the phenomenon of aggression and bullying will gradually occur.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
故孔子曰： 安上治民，莫善于礼；移风易俗，莫善于乐。
礼节民心，乐和民声，政以行之，刑以防之。
礼、乐、政、刑四达而不誖，则王道备矣。
乐以治内而为同，礼以修外而为异；同则和亲，异则畏敬；和亲则无怨，畏敬则不争。
揖让而天下治者，礼、乐之谓也。
二者并行，合为一体。
畏敬之意难见，则著之于享献、辞受，登降、跪拜；和亲之说难形，则发之于诗歌咏言，钟石、管弦。
盖嘉其敬意而不及其财贿，美其欢心而不流其声音。
故孔子曰： 礼云礼云，玉帛云乎哉？
乐云乐云，钟鼓云乎哉？
此礼乐之本也。
故曰： 知礼乐之情者能作，识礼乐之文者能述；作者之谓圣，述者之谓明。
明圣者，述作之谓也。
translation: 
Therefore, Confucius said: There is no better way to stabilize a country and govern the people than propriety; to change the atmosphere and change customs, there is no better way than music.
Etiquette can control the thoughts of the people, music can harmonize the voices of the people, implement it with government decrees, and prevent it with criminal laws.
If etiquette, music, government orders, and criminal laws are all passed without hindrance, then the kingly way is complete.
If music is used to govern the interior, harmony is needed; if ritual is used to modify the exterior, diversity is needed; harmony can lead to harmony and mutual affection, and difference can produce fear and respect; harmony and mutual love will not cause resentment, and fear and admiration will not cause strife.
The world is governed well by doing nothing, the effects of etiquette and music.
The two are used together and become one.
Fear and respect are difficult to express, so they use wine and food, speeches, and kneeling to express it; the joy of harmonious love is difficult to describe, so they use poems, songs, chants, words, and bells and stones to express it.
This is to praise a person's respect without touching his property, and to praise a person's happy mood without touching his voice.
So Confucius said: "Etiquette, etiquette, can it be expressed in jade and silk?"
Joy, joy, how can we use bells and drums to express it?
This is the foundation of etiquette and joy.
Therefore, it is said: Those who understand the nature of ritual and music can innovate, and those who understand the system of ritual and music can inherit it; those who innovate are called saints, and those who inherit it are called Ming.
Mingsheng is all about innovation and inheritance.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
王者必因前王之礼，顺时施宜，有所损益，即民之心，稍稍制作，至太平而大备。
周监于二代，礼文尤具，事为之制，曲为之防，故称礼经三百，威仪三千。
于是教化浃洽，民用和睦，灾害不生，祸乱不作，囹圄空虚，四十余年。
孔子美之曰： 郁郁乎文哉！
吾从周。
及其衰也，诸侯逾越法度，恶礼制之害己，去其篇籍。
遭秦灭学，遂以乱亡。
汉兴，拨乱反正，日不暇给，犹命叔孙通制礼仪，以正君臣之位。
高祖说而叹曰： 吾乃今日知为天子之贵也！
以通为奉常，遂定仪法，未尽备而通终。
至文帝时，贾谊以为： 汉承秦之败俗，废礼义，捐廉耻，今其甚者杀父兄，盗者取庙器，而大臣特以簿书不报，期会为故，至于风俗流溢，恬而不怪，以为是适然耳。
translation: 
The emperor must implement the rites of the previous emperors in accordance with the requirements of the times, add or delete them, and gradually make them according to the people's ideas, until the world is at peace and complete.
The Zhou Dynasty learned from the Xia and Yin Dynasties, and the etiquette system was particularly complete. Systems were established for major events and precautions were taken for minor matters. Therefore, there are 300 etiquette rituals and 3,000 etiquette details.
As a result, education was widespread, the people were harmonious, there were no disasters, no chaos, and the prisons were empty. This situation has been maintained for more than forty years.
Confucius praised it and said: The etiquette is so complete!
I want to learn from the Zhou Dynasty.
When the Zhou Dynasty declined, the princes exceeded the limits of the law and hated the etiquette system for harming their own interests, so they deleted the relevant books and documents.
Then the Qin Dynasty destroyed various schools of thought, and rituals and music were scattered and lost.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, he began to control the troubled times and restore normalcy and stability. Although he did not have a day to spare, Emperor Gaozu still ordered Shusun Tong to formulate etiquette to correct the status of the monarch and his ministers.
Emperor Gaozu happily exclaimed: "I just realized today that being the emperor is the most expensive thing!"
Shusun Tong was appointed as a regular official and etiquette laws were formulated, but Shusun Tong died before they were fully prepared.
At the time of Emperor Wen, Jia Yi believed that the Han Dynasty had inherited the bad customs of the Qin Dynasty, without regard for etiquette and integrity, and now even went so far as to kill his father and elder brothers, and thieves stole artifacts from the ancestral temple, and the ministers also used the copybook as an excuse for not reporting the implementation of the decrees. As a result, evil practices were rampant, and everyone felt at ease and did not feel strange, thinking that this was the case.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
夫移风易俗，使天下回心而乡道，类非俗吏之所能为也。
夫立君臣，等上下，使纲纪有序，六亲和睦，此非天之所为，人之所设也。
人之所设，不为不立，不修则坏。
汉兴至今二十余年，宜定制度，兴礼乐，然后诸侯轨道，百姓素朴，狱讼衰息。
乃草具其仪，天子说焉。
而大臣绛、灌之属害之，故其议遂寝。
至武帝即位，进用英隽，议立明堂，制礼服，以兴太平。
会窦太后好黄老言，不说儒术，其事又废。
后董仲舒对策言： 王者欲有所为，宜求其端于天。
天道大者，在于阴阳。
阳为德，阴为刑。
天使阳常居大夏，而以生育长养为事；阴常居大冬，而积于空虚不用之处，以此见天之任德不任刑也。
阳出布施于上而主岁功，阴入伏藏于下而时出佐阳。
阳不得阴之助，亦不能独成岁功。
王者承天意以从事，故务德教而省刑罚。
translation: 
It can be seen that it is probably not something that mediocre officials can do to change the atmosphere, change customs, and make everyone in the world change their minds and move towards the right path.
The establishment of monarchs and ministers, the distinction between superiors and subordinates, the ordering of the country's system, and the harmony among relatives are not God's arrangements, but are established by man himself.
Since it is established by people themselves, it cannot be established if they are not practiced, and it will be destroyed if they are not cultivated.
The Han Dynasty has been established for more than 20 years now. It is necessary to formulate systems and promote rituals and music. Then the princes can get on the right track, the people can be simple and unpretentious, and lawsuits will gradually disappear.
So Jia Yi established etiquette, and Emperor Wen was very happy.
But ministers Zhou Bo and Guan Ying were jealous of him, so his suggestions were not adopted.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he promoted and appointed people with outstanding talents, discussed the establishment of a bright hall to clarify politics and religion, and formulated etiquette and clothing colors to revitalize peace.
It happened that Empress Dowager Dou liked the Taoist teachings of Huangdi and Laozi, but did not like Confucianism, so the matter was dropped.
Later Dong Zhongshu answered in the test paper: If the emperor wants to make a difference, he should explore his behavior according to heaven.
The way of heaven is boundless, it all depends on yin and yang.
Yang is benevolence and yin is punishment.
The angelic yang is always in the midsummer to nourish all things and make them grow, while the yin is always in the midwinter and accumulates in empty and unused places. From this we can see that heaven advocates virtue and not criminal law.
Yang Qi appears and spreads upward to dominate the time sequence of the year, while Yin Qi enters the underground reservoir and comes out from time to time to assist Yang Qi.
Yang Qi does not have the help of Yin Qi and cannot form the time sequence of the year alone.
The emperor acts according to the will of God, so he must devote himself to benevolent education and reduce punishment.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
刑罚不可任以治世，犹阴之不可任以成岁也。
今废先王之德教，独用执法之吏治民，而欲德化被四海，故难成也。
是故古之王者，莫不以教化为大务，立大学以教于国，设庠序以化于邑。
教化以明，习俗以成，天下尝无一人之狱矣。
至周末世，大为无道，以失天下。
秦继其后，又益甚之。
自古以来，未尝以乱济乱，大败天下如秦者也。
习俗薄恶，民人抵冒。
今汉继秦之后，虽欲治之，无可奈何。
法出而奸生，令下而诈起，一岁之狱以万千数，如以汤止沸，沸俞甚而无益。
辟之琴瑟不调，甚者必解而更张之，乃可鼓也。
为政而不行，甚者必变而更化之，乃可理也。
故汉得天下以来，常欲善治，而至今不能胜残去杀者，失之当更化而不能更化也。
古人有言： 临渊羡鱼，不如归而结网。
今临政而愿治七十余岁矣，不如退而更化。
更化则可善治，而灾害日去，福禄日来矣。
translation: 
Punishments cannot be used to govern a country, just as Yin energy cannot be used to form the timing of a year.
Nowadays, the benevolent teachings of the previous kings are abandoned and only officials in charge of laws are used to govern the people. If we want to use virtue to inspire people all over the world, it will be difficult to succeed.
Therefore, the ancient emperors all regarded the political and religious culture as a major matter. They established the Taixue in the capital to carry out teaching and the Xuexu in the small town to carry out education.
The political and religious ethos has been clarified, habits and customs have been formed, and no one in the world will be in prison.
By the end of the Zhou Dynasty, he was doing so many unethical things that he lost the world.
The Qin Dynasty followed the Zhou Dynasty and did even worse things.
From ancient times to the present, there has never been a situation where chaos was used to increase chaos and extremely destroy the world like the Qin Dynasty did.
The customs are frivolous and abominable, and the people have no fear.
Now that the Han Dynasty is following the Qin Dynasty, even if it wants to control this situation, there is no way.
As soon as the law is promulgated, cunning people appear, as soon as the decree is promulgated, deception occurs, and there are tens of millions of lawsuits a year. Just like using hot water to stop boiling water, it will only make the water boil more and will not help.
For example, if the piano and the harp are not harmonious, if the instrument is more powerful, it must be disassembled and put back together before it can be played.
When political affairs are handled but not implemented, if the situation is very serious, it must be changed again before it can be managed.
Therefore, since the Han Dynasty took over the world, it has always wanted to govern it well, but it has not yet been able to transform the violent people into good people, so that they can be exempted from the death penalty. This is because they did not change their education when it should be changed.
The ancients once said: If you are envious of the abundance of fish by the pond, it is better to go back and tie the fishnet.
Now that we have been in power and have been planning to govern the country well for more than 70 years, we might as well make changes first.
Reform can govern a country well, reduce national disasters and increase happiness.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
是时，上方征讨四夷，锐志武功，不暇留意礼文之事。
至宣帝时，琅邪王吉为谏大夫，又上疏言： 欲治之主不世出，公卿幸得遭遇其时，未有建万世之长策，举明主于三代之隆者也。
其务在于簿书、断狱、听讼而已，此非太平之基也。
今俗吏所以牧民者，非有礼义科指可世世通行者也，以意穿凿，各取一切。
是以诈伪萌生，刑罚无极，质朴日消，恩爱浸薄。
孔子曰 安上治民，莫善于礼 ，非空言也。
愿与大臣延及儒生，述旧礼，明王制，驱一世之民，济之仁寿之域，则俗何以不若成、康？
寿何以不若高宗？
上不纳其言，吉以病去。
至成帝时，犍为郡于水滨得古磐十六枚，议者以为善祥。
刘向因是说上： 宜兴辟雍，设庠序，陈礼乐，隆雅颂之声，盛揖攘之容，以风化天下。
translation: 
At this time, the emperor was in the process of conquering the barbarians and was devoted to martial arts. He had no time to pay attention to etiquette and rituals.
At the time of Emperor Xuan's reign, Langxie Wangji was appointed as an admonishment official, and he wrote to the emperor: There are not all monarchs who want to govern the world well in every generation. Officials such as public ministers are lucky enough to be at the right time, but they have no long-term strategy to help the wise monarchs achieve the prosperity of the third generation.
Their task is only to rely on official documents to decide and hear lawsuits. This is not the foundation of peace in the world.
Nowadays, the vulgar officials use it to rule the people. There are no rules of etiquette and justice that can be passed from generation to generation. They just follow the rules with their own ideas and strive for temporary stability.
Therefore, cunning and hypocrisy sprout, punishment has no limit, simplicity disappears day by day, and love gradually fades away.
Confucius said that there is nothing better than propriety to stabilize a country and govern its people. This is not empty talk.
I am willing to work with ministers to select Confucian scholars, inherit the old etiquette, clarify the king's system, and urge the people of a generation to achieve the state of benevolence and longevity. How can such etiquette and customs be inferior to those of King Zhou Cheng and King Kang of Zhou?
How come his longevity is not as good as that of Yin Gaozong?
The emperor did not adopt his suggestion, so Wang Ji had to resign due to illness.
When he became emperor, Jianwei County dug up sixteen ancient chimes by the river. Everyone thought they were very auspicious.
Based on this situation, Liu Xiang persuaded Emperor Cheng: Piyong should be built, a preface should be established, rituals and music should be arranged, so that the sound of elegant songs can be prosperous, and the etiquette of bowing and yielding can be prevalent, so as to educate the world.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
如此而不治者，未之有也。
或曰，不能具礼。
礼以养人为本，如有过差，是过而养人也。
刑罚之过，或至死伤。
今之刑，非皋陶之法也，而有司请定法，削则削，笔则笔，救时务也。
至于礼乐，则曰不敢，是敢于杀人不敢于养人也。
为其俎豆、管弦之间小不备，因是绝而不为，是去小不备而就大不备，或莫甚焉。夫教化之比于刑法，刑法轻，是舍所重而急所轻也。
且教化，所恃以为治也，刑法所以助治也。
今废所恃而独立其所助，非所以致太平也。
自京师有誖逆不顺之子孙，至于陷大辟受刑戮者不绝，繇不习五常之道也。
夫承千岁之衰周，继暴秦之余敝，民渐渍恶俗，贪饕险诐，不闲义理，不示以大化，而独驱以刑罚，终已不改。
translation: 
If this has not brought peace to the world, it has never happened.
Some people say that all etiquette cannot be complete.
Rites are based on educating people. Even if there are mistakes, these mistakes still educate people.
Mistakes in punishment can sometimes result in death or injury.
Today's criminal law is no longer the law of Gao Tao's time. Relevant departments make laws and deletions at any time, and add them at any time, just to assist the important affairs of the world.
As for adding rituals and music, I say I dare not. This means that I dare to kill people but not to educate people.
For the sake of not having all the ritual utensils and orchestral instruments available, I would definitely not do it. This would be giving up a small thing that is not available and end up in a situation where most of the things are not available. There is nothing more disadvantageous than this: compared with education and criminal law, criminal law is relatively light. This means abandoning important things and rushing to deal with minor things.
Moreover, education relies on it to govern the country, and criminal law is used to assist governance.
Now abandoning what should be relied on and only establishing things that are only used to play a supporting role is not the way to achieve the world.
From the disobedient and unfilial descendants in the capital to those who suffered the punishment of Dapi killing, this is because they do not understand the five principles of benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, and faith.
The Han Dynasty inherited the thousand-year decline of the Zhou Dynasty and the legacy of the brutal Qin Dynasty. The people gradually became infected with bad customs, were greedy and sinister, and did not understand the truth. They did not educate them and only used punishment to restrain them. The folk customs would never be corrected.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
故曰： 导之以礼乐，而民和睦。 初，叔孙通将制定礼仪，见非于齐、鲁之士，然卒为汉儒宗，业垂后嗣，斯成法也。
成帝以向言下公卿议，会向病卒，丞相大司空奏请立辟雍。
案行长安城南，营表未作，遭成帝崩，群臣引以定谥。
及王莽为宰衡，欲耀众庶，遂兴辟雍，因以篡位，海内畔之。
世祖受命中兴，拨乱反正，改定京师于土中。
即位三十年，四夷宾服，百姓家给，政教清明，乃营立明堂、辟雍。
显宗即位，躬行其礼，宗祀光武皇帝于明堂，养三老、五更于辟雍，威仪既盛美矣。
然德化未流洽者，礼乐未具，群下无所诵说，而庠序尚未设之故也。
孔子曰： 辟如为山，未成一匮，止，吾止也。
今叔孙通所撰礼仪，与律令同录，臧于理官，法家又复不传。
汉典寝而不著，民臣莫有言者。
又通没之后，河间献王采礼乐古事，稍稍增辑，至五百余篇。
今学者不能昭见，但推士礼以及天子，说义又颇谬异，故君臣长幼交接之道浸以不章。
translation: 
Therefore, it is said: Use ritual and music to guide the people, and they will be in harmony. Originally, when Shusun Tong was about to formulate etiquette, he was criticized by scholars in Qi and Lu, but in the end he became the master of Confucian scholars in the Han Dynasty, and his achievements were passed down to future generations and became a code of law.
Emperor Cheng handed Liu Xiang's words to his ministers for discussion. Liu Xiang died of illness, and Prime Minister Da Sikong asked the emperor to establish Piyong.
While inspecting the south side of Chang'an City, Emperor Cheng died before the table to determine the location was completed, and the officials quoted this incident to determine his title.
When Wang Mang was promoted to Prime Minister, he wanted to confuse everyone, so he built Piyong, thus usurping the throne, and the people in the country began to rebel against him.
Emperor Guangwu, the ancestor of the Han Dynasty, was mandated by fate to revive the declining Han Dynasty. He managed the troubled times, restored normalcy and stability, and changed the capital of the country to Luoyang.
After reigning for thirty years, the barbarians surrendered, the people became rich, and the political education was clear, so Mingtang and Biyong were established.
Xianzong ascended the throne and personally presided over the etiquette, worshiped Emperor Guangwu in Mingtang, and supported the three elders and five more in Piyong. The etiquette details were both numerous and perfect.
However, moral education was not widely spread because the rituals and music were not in place, the officials and the people had nothing to talk about, and the preface had not yet been established.
Confucius said: For example, if you are still short of building a mountain, but you stop doing it, I will no longer teach him.
Now the etiquette and rituals written by Shusun Tong are recorded together with the laws and regulations, and are collected by judges, but they have not been passed down by the Legalists.
The classics of the Han Dynasty no longer recorded it, and the common people and officials no longer mentioned it.
After Shu Sun Tong's death, He asked King Xian to select some old stories about rituals and music, and gradually added them to the collection, reaching more than 500 pieces.
Today's scholars cannot make it clear. They only recommend the "Shili" to the emperor, and the principles stated are often wrong. Therefore, the rules for the relationship between elders and juniors between emperors and ministers are gradually blurred.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
乐者，圣人之所乐也，而可以善民心。
其感人深，移风易俗，故先王著其教焉。
夫民有血、气、心、知之性，而无哀、乐、喜、怒之常，应感而动，然后心术形焉。
是以纤微憔瘁之音作，而民思忧；阐谐嫚易之音作，而民康乐；粗厉猛奋之音作，而民刚毅；廉直正诚之音作，而民肃敬；宽裕和顺之音作，而民慈爱；流辟邪散之音作，而民淫乱。
先王耻其乱也，故制雅颂之声，本之情性，稽之度数，制之礼仪，合生气之和，异五常之行，使之阳而不散，阴而不集，刚气不怒，柔气不慑，四暢交于中，而发作于外，皆安其位而不相夺，足以感动人之善心也，不使邪气得接焉，是先王立乐之方也。
王者未作乐之时，因先王之乐以教化百姓，说乐其俗，然后改作，以章功德。
《易》曰： 先王以作乐崇德，殷荐之上帝，以配祖考。
translation: 
Music is loved by saints because it can change people's minds for the better.
It has a profound power to move people and is easy to change the atmosphere and customs, so the former kings praised its educational role.
People have the nature of emotions, thoughts and wisdom, but there is no normal state of sadness, joy, joy and anger. When there are reactions, there are inner activities, and then the methods and ways for people to understand things are formed.
Therefore, when subtle and rapid music sounds, people will be worried; when harmonious and soothing music sounds, people will be happy; when high-pitched and exciting music sounds, people will be strong-willed; when upright and pure music sounds, people will be in awe; when broad and smooth music sounds, people will be kind and loving; when licentious and scattered music sounds, people will be evil and confused.
The former king was ashamed of this chaos, so he formulated the music of Yasong. It was based on human emotions, examined the principles of music, and made it according to etiquette and rituals. It coordinated with the harmony of yin and yang to guide the actions of the five constants, making it exposed but not discrete, and hidden but not condensed. Stagnation, hard energy does not cause anger, soft energy does not disperse, the four elements of yin and yang, hardness and softness are smoothly integrated into one body and dispersed outside the body, so that they can settle in their own positions without collision. This is enough to move people's conscience and prevent evil spirits from invading. This is the policy of the ancient kings in establishing happiness.
Before the emperors composed music, they would use the music of their ancestors to teach the people and make them happy and happy. After that, they would make changes to the music to highlight their merits and virtues.
"Book of Changes" says: The ancient kings made music to promote virtue, and played grand music to worship heaven and to entertain their ancestors.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
昔黄帝作《咸池》，颛顼作《六茎》，帝喾作《五英》，尧作《大章》，舜作《招》，禹作《夏》，汤作《濩》，武王作《武》，周公作《勺》。
《勺》，言能勺先祖之道也。
《武》，言以功定天下也。
《》言救民也。
《夏》，大承二帝也。
《招》，继尧也。
《大章》，章之也。
《五英》，英茂也。
《六茎》，及根茎也。
《咸池》，备矣。
自夏以往，其流不可闻已，殷《颂》犹有存者。
周《诗》既备，而其器用张陈，《周官》具焉。
典者自卿大夫、师瞽以下，皆选有道德之人，朝夕习业，以教国子。
国子者，卿大夫之子弟也，皆学歌九德，诵六诗，习六舞，五声、八音之和。
故帝舜命夔曰： 女典乐，教胄子，直而温，宽而栗，刚而无虐，简而无敖。
诗言志，歌咏言，声依咏，律和声，八音克谐。
此之谓也。
又以外赏诸侯德盛而教尊者。
translation: 
In the past, Huangdi made "Xianchi", Zhuanxu made "Liuji", Emperor Shu made "Wuying", Yao made "Dazhang", "Shun" made "Shao", Yu made "Xia", Tang made "Yi", King Wu made "Wu" and Zhou Gong made "Shao".
"Shao" means that one can obtain the way of ancestors.
"Martial Arts" means to stabilize the world through merit.
"婩" means saving the people.
"Xia" refers to the large-scale succession of Emperors Yao and Shun.
"Shao" means to succeed Yao.
"Big Chapter" means manifesting virtue.
"Five Heroes" means that morality is very prosperous.
"Six stems" means that the rhizome has been affected.
"Xianchi" is complete.
From Xia onwards, this kind of music has not been heard again, and "Song of Yin" is still preserved.
The "Poems of Zhou" are also all in place, and its musical instruments and "Officials of Zhou" are all in charge.
Those in charge, starting from Shi Gu, the senior official, and below, all select moral people to train them in the morning and evening to teach the sons of the country.
The sons of the state, that is, the children of the high officials, must learn to sing the nine virtues, recite the six poems, and practice the six dances, five tones, and eight tones.
Therefore, when Emperor Shun appointed Kui, he said: You are in charge of music and teach the sons of the country, making them upright and gentle, tolerant and prudent, resolute but not rough, simple but not arrogant.
Use poetry to express aspirations, use songs to express your heart, use the five tones to assist singing, and use the six rhymes to harmonize the sounds, and the eight tones will be harmonious.
That's what I'm talking about.
In addition, he also rewards those among the princes who have great virtues and whose teachings are respected.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
其威仪足以充目，音声足以动耳，诗语足以感心，故闻其音而德和，省其诗而志正，论其数而法立。
是以荐之郊庙则鬼神飨，作之朝廷则群臣和，立之学官则万民协。
听者无不虚己竦神，说而承流，是以海内遍知上德，被服其风，光辉日新，化上迁善，而不知所以然，至于万物不夭，天地顺而嘉应降。故《诗》曰： 钟鼓锽锽，磐管锵锵，降福穰穰。
《书》云： 击石拊石，百兽率舞。
鸟兽且犹感应，而况于人乎？
况于鬼神乎？
故乐者，圣人之所以感天地，通神明，安万民，成性类者也。
然自《雅》、《颂》之兴，而所承衰乱之音犹在，是谓淫过凶嫚之声，为设禁焉。
世衰民散，小人乘君子，心耳浅薄，则邪胜正。
translation: 
The etiquette details of music are enough to make people see enough, the sound is enough to mesmerize people to listen, and the poetry is enough to touch people's hearts. Therefore, when you hear the sound, your morals will be harmonious, when you read the poems, your aspirations will be upright, and the laws and regulations for discussing them will be established.
Therefore, if you use it in the suburbs to worship heaven and earth, the ghosts and gods can enjoy it; if you use it in the court, the officials will be docile; if it is set up in a school, all people will be harmonious.
Everyone who listened was attentive and humbly immersed in it happily. Therefore, everyone in the country knew that the emperor's benevolence and bathing in his spirit could renew the brilliance and make people noble and kind. Therefore, the "Poetry" says: If the bells and drums ring together, and the chimes and pipes play in unison, God will bring more blessings.
"The Book" says: When the stone chime is struck, all kinds of wild beasts will dance to the music.
It has a touching influence on black beasts, not to mention people?
What’s more, what about ghosts and gods?
Therefore, music is used by saints to move heaven and earth, reach gods, calm people, and form character types.
However, since the rise of "Ya" and "Song", the inherited music of decline and turmoil still exists. This is the so-called confusing and noisy sound, and we must try to ban it.
When the world is declining and people's hearts are scattered, villains will bully gentlemen and their thoughts are shallow, then evil will prevail over righteousness.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
故《书》序： 殷纣断弃先祖之乐，乃作淫声，用变乱正声，以说妇人。
乐官师瞽抱其器而奔散，或适诸侯，或入河海。
夫乐本情性，浃肌肤而臧骨髓，虽经乎千载，其遗风余烈尚犹不绝。
至春秋时，陈公子完奔齐。
陈，舜之后，《招》乐存焉。
故孔子适齐闻《招》，三月不知肉味，曰： 不图为乐之至于斯！
美之甚也。
周道始缺，怨刺之诗起。
王泽既竭，而诗不能作。
王官失业，《雅》、《颂》相错，孔子论而定之，故曰： 吾自卫反鲁，然后乐正，《雅》、《颂》各得其所。
是时，周室大坏，诸侯恣行，设两观，乘大路。
陪臣管仲、季氏之属，三归《雍》彻，八佾舞廷。
制度遂坏，陵夷而不反，桑间、濮上，郑、卫、宋、赵之声并出。内则致疾损寿，外则乱政伤民。
translation: 
Therefore, the preface to "Book" says that Shang Zhou abandoned the music of his ancestors and made music that confuses people's hearts. He changed the sound to make it chaotic in order to please women.
The official Shi Gu fled away with his musical instruments, some to various princes, and some to the Yellow River and the sea.
Music is based on human emotions, penetrating the skin and hiding deep in the bone marrow. Even after thousands of years, its lingering sound is still endless.
In the Spring and Autumn Period, Chen Gongzi fled to Qi State.
Chen is a descendant of Shun, and "Shao Le" is preserved there.
Therefore, after Confucius arrived in Qi and heard "Shao", he didn't know what meat tasted like for three months and said: "I didn't expect music to reach such a state!"
Confucius admired it very much.
When the Zhou Dynasty began to be immoral, poems such as resentment and satire began to rise.
After the emperor's favor has dried up, poetry can no longer be written.
When the emperor's officials lost their positions, "Ya" and "Song" became mixed. Confucius studied and determined it, so he said: After I returned to Lu from Wei, the music was corrected, and "Ya" and "Song" had their own original uses.
At this time, the Zhou Dynasty was in serious decline, and the princes were running rampant. They set up two temples and rode in the emperor's car.
The ministers of the princes, Guan Zhong and Ji, married three women, played the music of "Yong" when removing eels, and danced "Eight Yi" indoors.
The system was corrupted and gradually declined without hope of revival. The music of Sangjian, Pushang, Zheng, Wei, Song, and Zhao appeared together, which caused diseases and shortened life span internally, and disrupted politics and harmed the people externally.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
巧伪因而饰之，以营乱富贵之耳目。
庶人以求利，列国以相间。
故秦穆遗戎而由余去，齐人馈鲁而孔子行。
至于六国，魏文侯最为好古，而谓子夏曰： 寡人听古乐则欲寐，及闻郑、卫，余不知倦焉。
子夏辞而辨之，终不见纳，自此礼乐丧矣。
汉兴，乐家有制氏，以雅乐声律世世在大乐官，但能纪其铿鎗鼓舞，而不能言其义。
高祖时，叔孙通因秦乐人制宗庙乐。
大祝迎神于庙门，奏《嘉至》，犹古降神之乐也。
皇帝入庙门，奏《永至》，以为行步之节，犹古《采荠》、《肆夏》也。
乾豆上，奏《登歌》，独上歌，不以管弦乱人声，欲在位者遍闻之，犹古《清庙》之歌也。
《登歌》再终，下奏《休成》之乐，美神明既飨也。
皇帝就酒东厢，坐定，奏《永安》之乐，美礼已成也。
translation: 
Crafty and false use it to decorate, in order to confuse the eyes and ears of the rich.
Common people use it to seek benefits, and vassal states use it to alienate each other.
Therefore, after Duke Mu of Qin gave the female singer to Xirong, Yu Yu left. The Qi people rewarded the female singer of Lu, Confucius, and left.
When it came to the Six Kingdoms, Wei Wenhou was the most ancient, but he said to Xia: I want to doze off when I hear ancient music, but when I hear the music of Zheng and Wei, I will not be tired.
Zixia rebuked him and argued with him, but in the end he was not accepted. From then on, ritual and music were lost.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, there was a member of the musical family who was appointed as a music official for generations because he knew the official music and the five tones and six rhythms of the suburban temple court gatherings. However, he could only memorize the rhythm and dance of the music, but could not tell their meaning.
During the reign of Emperor Gaozu, Shusun Tong relied on musicians from the Qin Dynasty to produce music for the ancestral temple.
I wish to welcome the gods at the temple gate and play the music "Jia Zhi", just like the music that brought the gods to visit in ancient times.
When the emperor entered the temple gate, he played the music of "Yongzhi" as a walking rhythm, just like the ancient music of "Picking Shepherd's purse" and "Sixia".
Dried beans are offered and "Dengge" is played. Only one person sings, and no orchestras are used to disturb people's voices. It is hoped that all the officials can hear it, just like the ancient song "Qing Temple".
After "Deng Ge" is played twice, "Xiu Cheng" is played again to praise the gods for having enjoyed the sacrifice.
The emperor went to Shuxiang to drink. After sitting down, he played the music "Yong'an" and praised the completion of the ceremony.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
又有《房中祠乐》，高祖唐山夫人所作也。
周有《房中乐》，至秦名曰《寿人》。
凡乐，乐其所生，礼不忘本。
高祖乐楚声，故《房中乐》楚声也。
孝惠二年，使乐府令夏侯宽备其箫管，更名曰《安世乐》。
高庙奏《武德》、《文始》、《五行》之舞；孝文庙奏《昭德》、《文始》、《四时》、《五行》之舞；孝武庙奏《盛德》、《文始》、《四时》、《五行》之舞。
诸帝庙皆常奏《文始》、《四时》、《五行舞》云。
高祖六年又作《昭容乐》、《礼容乐》。
《昭容》者，犹古之《昭夏》也，主出《武德舞》。
《礼容》者，主出《文始》、《五行舞》。
舞人无乐者，将至至尊之前不敢以乐也；出用乐者，言舞不失节，能以乐终也。
大氐皆因秦旧事焉。
translation: 
There is also "Ancestral Music in the Fang", which was composed by Mrs. Tangshan of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
There was "Fang Zhong Yue" in the Zhou Dynasty, and it was called "Shou Ren" in the Qin Dynasty.
As with music, if you like what it creates, the etiquette is not to forget the fundamentals.
Emperor Gaozu liked the music of Chu, so "Music in the Fang" has the melody of Chu music.
In the second year of Xiaohui's reign, he asked Yuefu to order Xiahou Kuan to prepare Qi Xiaoguan, so he changed the name to "An Shile".
The dance music played in Gaomiao is "Wude", "Wenshi" and "Five Elements"; the dance music played in Xiaowen Temple is the dance music of "Zhaode", "Wenshi", "Four Seasons" and "Five Elements"; the dance music played in Xiaowu Temple is the dance music of "Shengde", "Wenshi", "Four Seasons" and "Five Elements".
The most commonly performed songs in various imperial temples are "Wen Shi", "Four Seasons", "Five Elements Dance", etc.
In the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, he produced "Zhao Rong Le" and "Li Rong Le".
"Zhao Rong Le", like the ancient "Zhao Xia Le", mainly comes from "Wude Dance".
"Li Rong Yue" mainly comes from "Wen Shi" and "Five Elements Dance".
If a person dances without music, it means that he does not dare to use music when he is about to appear in front of the most respected person; using music means that the dance will not lose the rhythm and can end with the music.
Most of them are based on the old events of the Qin Dynasty.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
初，高祖既定天下，过沛，与故人父老相乐，醉酒欢哀，作 风起 之诗，令沛中僮兒百二十人习而歌之。
至孝惠时，以沛宫为原庙，皆令歌兒习吹以相和，常以百二十人为员。
文、景之间，礼官肄业而已。
至武帝定郊祀之礼，祠太一于甘泉，就乾位也；祭后土于汾阴，泽中方丘也。
乃立乐府，采诗夜诵，有赵、代、秦、楚之讴。
以李延年为协律都尉，多举司马相如等数十人造为诗赋，略论律吕，以合八音之调，作十九章之歌。
以正月上辛用事甘泉圜丘，使童男女七十人俱歌，昏祠至明。
夜常有神光如流星止集于祠坛，天子自竹宫而望拜，百官侍祠者数百人皆肃然动心焉。
《安世房中歌》十七章，其诗曰：
大孝备矣，休德昭清。
高张四县，乐充官庭。
芬树羽林，云景杳冥，金支秀华，庶旄翠旌。
《七始》、《华始》，肃倡和声。
神来宴娭，庶几是听。
鬻鬻音送，细齐人情。
忽乘青玄，熙事备成。
translation: 
At first, after Emperor Gaozu brought peace to the world, he passed by Peixian County to celebrate with his old friends and fellow villagers. After getting drunk, he became extremely happy and sad, so he composed the poem "The Wind Rises" and ordered one hundred and twenty children in Peixian County to practice and sing it.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaohui, Peigong was used as the original temple, and all the singing children were asked to practice playing and playing to harmonize each other. The capacity was often 120 people.
During the reigns of Emperors Wen and Jing, the etiquette officers only practiced what was available.
By the time of Emperor Wu, the etiquette for worshiping ancestors in the suburbs was determined. For worshiping Taiyi in Ganquan, the Gan position northwest of the capital was chosen; to worship the earth god in Fenyin, the square hilly land in the puddle was chosen.
So he established a Yuefu, collected poems and sang them at night, including songs of Fang, Dai, Qin and Chu.
He appointed Li Yannian as the Lieutenant of Xielu, repeatedly recommended Sima Xiangru and dozens of other people to compose poems, briefly discussed Lu and used it to harmonize the tones of eight musical instruments, and wrote nineteen chapters of songs.
On the first day of the first lunar month, Xin Yue was worshiped at Ganquan Circle Hill, and seventy boys and girls were sent to sing together from dusk to dawn.
At night, divine lights like shooting stars would often stop at the altar, and the emperor would look out from the bamboo palace and worship. Hundreds of officials who accompanied the sacrifice were awe-struck.
"Songs in Anshifang" has seventeen chapters. This poem says:
Both filial piety and filial piety are complete, and virtues are obvious.
Hang the instruments high and around them so that they fill the palace.
The feathers erected one after another are like woods, as high and invisible as cloud shadows, the gold-decorated musical instrument feathers are as gorgeous as grass and trees, and are as beautiful as banners decorated with neat oxtails and green feathers.
"Qi Shi Hua Shi" requires respectful and harmonious singing.
The gods also came to feast, have fun, and listen to the songs.
Use music to respectfully and discreetly bid farewell to the gods, allowing them to feel a little bit of human emotion.
The gods suddenly ascended to the sky and left, and everything auspicious was in place.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
清思眑々，经纬冥冥。
我定历数，人告其心。
敕身齐戒，施教申申。
乃立祖庙，敬明尊亲。
大矣孝熙，四极爰轃。
王侯秉德，其邻翼翼，显明昭式。清明矣，皇帝孝德。
竟全大功，抚安四极。
海内有奸，纷乱东北。
诏抚成师，武臣承德。
行乐交逆，《箫》、《勺》群慝。
肃为济哉，盖定燕国。
大海荡荡水所归，高贤愉愉民所怀。
大山崔，百卉殖。
民何贵？
贵有德。
安其所，乐终产。
乐终产，世继绪。
飞龙秋，游上天。
高贤愉，乐民人。
丰草葽，女罗施。
善何如，谁能回！
大莫大，成教德；长莫长，被无极。
雷震震，电耀耀。
明德乡，治本约。
治本约，泽弘大。
加被宠，咸相保。
德施大，世曼寿。
translation: 
The faint thoughts are misty and quiet, and the world is empty and high.
I determined the calendar, and everyone tried their best.
Fast religiously and educate constantly.
So they built ancestral temples to worship their respected and dear ones.
The blessing of filial piety is great and can reach far away places in all directions.
If a prince is virtuous, the people around him will be respectful, which is very obvious. Political clarity and smoothness are the filial piety of the emperor.
Great work was accomplished and all parties were appeased.
There are evil people in the country who are causing unrest in the Northeast.
I issued an edict to express my condolences to the troops, and the military ministers accepted the virtues.
Use music to conquer, "Xiao" and "Shao" can appease the evil spirits.
They obeyed respectfully, and the country of Yan was peaceful.
The sea is vast and boundless, and all the water flows back together. The wise man is kind and handsome, and everyone yearns for him.
The mountains are Cuiwei, which can give birth to hundreds of flowers.
What do people admire?
They admire moral people.
All things are in their own place, and everyone is happy.
If everyone is happy, it can be passed down from generation to generation.
The galloping dragon is parading in the sky.
If virtuous people are harmonious and cheerful, the people will be happy.
The grass is lush and the usneas stretch.
What can be better than this, who can come and destroy it!
No matter how big or small, it can form the virtue of education; whether it is long or not, it can cover infinite space.
Thunder shook and lightning flashed.
The principle of clarifying morality and justice is the foundation of political governance.
The foundation of governance is a great blessing.
With virtuous government, everyone is favored, and families can protect each other.
If virtuous government is implemented widely, it will last longer from generation to generation.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
都荔遂芳，窅寙桂华。
孝奏天仪，若日月光。
乘玄四龙，回驰北行。
羽旄殷盛，芬哉芒芒。
孝道随世，我署文章。
《桂华》
冯冯翼翼，承天之则。
吾易久远，烛明四极。
慈惠所爱，美若休德。
杳杳冥冥，克绰永福。
《美若》
磑磑即即，师象山则。
乌呼孝哉，案抚戎国。
蛮夷竭欢，象来致福。
兼临是爱，终无兵革。
嘉荐芳矣，告灵飨矣。
告灵既飨，德音孔臧。
惟德之臧，建侯之常。
承保天休，令问不忘。
皇皇鸿明，荡侯休德。
嘉承天和，伊乐厥福。
在乐不荒，惟民之则。
浚则师德，下民咸殖。
令问在旧，孔容翼翼。孔容之常，承帝之明。
下民之乐，子孙保光。
承顺温良，受帝之光。
嘉荐令芳，寿考不忘。
承帝明德，师象山则。
云施称民，永受厥福。
承容之常，承帝之明。
下民安乐，受福无疆。《郊祀歌》十九章，其诗曰：
translation: 
Zeoran and vanilla are fragrant, and the sweet-scented osmanthus is undulating.
Offering to heaven with filial piety is like the light of the sun and moon.
The gods ride on four-dragon chariots and gallop back and forth.
There are many flags decorated with bird feathers and yak tails, dense and long.
As long as filial piety exists in the world, I will write articles.
"Osmanthus fragrans"
Grand and numerous, inherit the laws of heaven.
Strong and long-term. Lighting all around.
Kind and generous people love like virtue.
Yao Yao Mingming, can enjoy happiness forever.
"Beauty"
Tall and substantial, like a mountain.
Use filial piety to appease ethnic minorities.
The barbarians rejoiced and sent translators to pay tribute.
Accepting this love, no war finally broke out.
Good sacrifices are very fragrant, and the sacrifices tell the gods to enjoy them.
Offer sacrifices to the gods, wait for them to enjoy, and then sing enthusiastically.
Only good virtues are common to princes.
Inherit the virtues of God and your good reputation will not be forgotten.
It is so wise, the world is peaceful, it is the virtue of the emperor.
To bear the peace of God well, this is the blessing brought by music.
Appreciate music but don't indulge, this is people's rule.
With profound laws and numerous morals, all peoples can be nurtured.
If his good reputation spreads for a long time, his appearance must be very respected.
The rule of good appearance is to accept the wisdom of God. The happiness of the people can ensure that the descendants will remain glorious forever.
Being respectful and kind can receive God's care.
Fragrant and beautiful tributes can prolong the lives of all living beings.
Bear the perfect virtue of God and be like a mountain without loss or collapse.
Give alms fairly and benevolent like clouds, and the people will enjoy happiness forever.
There are rules of appearance and the wisdom of God.
The people on earth will be happy and enjoy happiness forever. "Song of Suburban Sacrifice" has nineteen chapters, and its poem says:


Chunk 17: 
original: 
练时日，侯有望，爇膋萧，延四方。
九重开，灵之斿，垂惠恩，鸿祜休。
灵之车，结玄云，驾飞龙，羽旄纷。
灵之下，若风马，左仓龙，右白虎。
灵之来，神哉沛，先以雨，般裔裔。
灵之至，庆阴阴，相放怫，震澹心。
灵已坐，五音饬，虞至旦，承灵亿。
牲茧栗，粢盛香，尊桂酒，宾八乡。
灵安留，吟青黄，遍观此，眺瑶堂。
众嫭并，绰奇丽，颜如荼，兆逐靡。
被华文，厕雾縠，曳阿锡，佩珠玉。
侠嘉夜，茝兰芳，淡容与，献嘉觞。《练时日》一
帝临中坛，四方承宇，绳绳意变，备得其所。
清和六合，制数以五。
海内安宁，兴文武。
后土富媪，昭明三光。
穆穆优游，嘉服上黄。《帝临》二
translation: 
When you choose the day, go and offer sacrifices! Light the grease and mugwort, and invite the gods from all directions.
The gates of heaven are wide open, and the gods travel, sending favors and bringing great blessings.
The car of the gods is surrounded by blue clouds, riding a flying dragon, and the flags decorated with bird feathers and yak tails are flying?
Below the spirit, galloping horses are as fast as the wind, with a blue dragon on the left and a white tiger on the right.
The arrival of Shenxia is so fast, it rains first, and it rains heavily.
The gods arrived, covering the sky and the sun, and the scene seemed to shock people's hearts.
After the god is seated, the five notes are arranged in order, and the music is played until dawn, so that the god's mane is quiet.
The gods from all over the world are entertained with the calf, the fragrant millet in the sacrificial vessel, and the sweet-scented osmanthus wine in the bottle.
The spirit stayed very quietly, singing green and yellow music, looking around and overlooking the Yaotang.
Many beauties were together, soft and beautiful, with beautiful faces, and the people rushed to see them.
Wearing gorgeous clothes, as light as clouds and mist, holding thin silk bundles and wearing pearls and jade.
They embrace fragrant herbs, which are as fragrant as orchids, are peaceful and relaxed, and offer good wine. "Practice Day" 1
The Emperor of Heaven descended to the altar in the middle, and the gods from the four directions each occupied a space. They were careful to prevent unexpected changes and prepared in their own positions.
When the weather is clear and warm, and the moon is in conjunction with the sun and the celestial body, it is auspicious to use five to make the number.
There will be peace in the sea, and civilization and martial arts will flourish.
The land is rich and prosperous, and the aura of mist reaches the sky.
Calm and leisurely, the auspicious color is yellow. "The Emperor's Arrival" 2


Chunk 18: 
original: 
青阳开动，根荄以遂，膏润并爱，跂行毕逮。
霆声发荣，壧处顷听，枯槁复产，乃成厥命。
众庶熙熙，施及夭胎，群生啿噬，惟春之祺。
《青阳》三邹子乐
朱明盛长，敷与万物，桐生茂豫，靡有所诎。
敷华就实，既阜既昌，登成甫田，百鬼迪尝。
广大建祀，肃雍不忘，神若宥之，传世无疆。《朱明》四邹子乐
西颢沆砀，秋气肃杀，含秀垂颖，续旧不废。
奸伪不萌，袄孽伏息，隅辟越远，四貉咸服。
既畏兹威，惟慕纯德，附而不骄，正心翊翊。
《西颢》五邹子乐
玄冥陵阴，蛰虫盖臧，草木零落，抵冬降霍。
易乱除邪，革正异俗，兆民反本，抱素怀朴。
条理信义，望礼五岳。
籍敛之时，掩收嘉谷。
translation: 
In spring, everything comes into play, roots grow, and with the blessing of nourishing rain, they can catch up quickly.
The sound of thunder revives the vegetation and makes the insects in the cave listen. The withered grass and dead trees begin to grow again and form life again.
They are all harmonious, infecting young and embryos, and enriching all living beings, which is the blessing brought by spring.
"Qingyang" Sanzou Ziyue
In summer, everything grows luxuriantly, stretches freely, grows freely, shines beautifully, and there is nothing to hinder it.
If you combine the splendor with the fruits, they will be large and plentiful. Because the fields are large and the harvest is abundant, the gods can enjoy the sacrifices.
If the sacrifice is carried out grandly and the cooking is not forgotten respectfully, the gods will protect it in a friendly manner and pass it on from generation to generation. "Zhu Ming" Si Zou Zi Yue
In the West, there is a white air, and the autumn air is strong and desolate. The grains and grasses can be fully mature because the old seedlings are not destroyed.
Treachery and hypocrisy did not sprout, so the evildoer had no choice but to hide in hiding, and all the barbarians in remote and remote places surrendered.
Afraid of such majesty and yearning for virtue, they became pious and respectful after joining, and did not dare to be proud or negligent.
"west Hao" Wu Zou Zi Music
The gods of the north ascend to the underworld, hibernating animals hide, vegetation withers and falls, and frost falls in winter.
At this time, the turmoil is ended, evil is eliminated, weird customs are corrected, and hundreds of millions of people return to their original professions and return to their true nature.
Distinguish between loyalty and etiquette, and worship the Five Mountains from a distance.
At harvest time in the fields, all the grain will be harvested.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
《玄冥》六邹子乐
惟泰元尊，媪神蕃釐，经纬天地，作成四时。
精建日月，星辰度理，阴阳五行，周而复始。
云风雷电，降甘露雨，百姓蕃滋，咸循厥绪。
继统共勤，顺皇之德，鸾路龙鳞，罔不肸饰。
嘉笾列陈，庶几宴享，灭除凶灾，烈腾八荒。
钟鼓竽笙，云舞翔翔，招摇灵旗，九夷宾将。
《惟泰元》七建始元年，丞相匡衡奏罢 鸾路龙鳞 ，更定诗曰 涓选休成 。
天地并况，惟予有慕，爰熙紫坛，思求厥路。
恭承禋祀，豫为纷，黼绣周张，承神至尊。
千童罗舞成八溢，合好效欢虞泰一。
九歌毕奏斐然殊，鸣琴竽瑟会轩朱。
璆磬金鼓，灵其有喜，百官济济，各敬厥事。
盛胜实俎进闻膏，神奄留，临须摇。
translation: 
"Xuan Ming" Liu Zou Zi Yue
The gods of heaven have the highest status and the gods of earth have the greatest blessings. They rule heaven and earth respectively, forming the four seasons.
The moon and stars move accurately, and the yin and yang and the five elements cycle back and forth.
Storms, clouds, thunder and lightning bring timely rain and dew, and the people rely on this to thrive and maintain their business.
The emperor inherits his ancestral heritage, is respectful and diligent, and obeys the virtues of heaven. The Yu family's chariots are as bright as dragon scales, and all of them are decorated.
The sacrificial utensils filled with preserved fruits were placed one after another, and it was almost time to enjoy the sacrificial wine and food, eliminate evil and disasters, and the power spread across the remote areas in all directions.
The bells, drums, yu and sheng were played in unison, and everyone danced gracefully, holding swaggering sacred flags, and all ethnic groups surrendered.
In the first year of the seventh founding year of Wei Tai Yuan, Prime Minister Kuang Heng changed the name of the poem to "Juan Xuan Xiucheng" after playing "Long Lin on the Luan Road".
I yearn for the blessings given by heaven and earth, and build purple altars, hoping to find the way for God to descend.
The sacrifices were received respectfully, clouds and smoke filled the air, and clothes embroidered with axe-shaped patterns were hung everywhere to welcome the most noble gods.
Many children danced together in eight rows, and they all sang joyful songs to make Taiyi happy.
After playing various songs, I felt very different. In front of Xuan Kan, I played various musical instruments such as the harp, harp, and harp.
The jade chimes and golden buttons and the drums sounded, and the gods were very happy. All the officials gathered together, all respectfully busy with their own affairs.
The ritual vessels containing the sacrificial animals are presented to the gods, and the fragrance reaches directly to the place where the gods are. The gods stay for a while and visit the place.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
长丽前掞光耀明，寒暑不忒况皇章。
展诗应律鋗玉鸣，函宫吐角激徵清。
发梁扬羽申以商，造兹新音永久长。
声气远条凤鸟鴹，神夕奄虞盖孔享。《天地》八
丞相匡衡奏罢 黼绣周张 ，更定诗曰 肃若旧典 。
日出入安穷？
时世不与人同。
故春非我春，夏非我夏，秋非我秋，冬非我冬。
泊如四海之池，遍观是邪谓何？
吾知所乐，独乐六龙，六龙之调，使我心若。
訾黄其何不徠下？
《日出入》九
太一况，天马下，沾赤汗，沫流赭。
志俶傥，精权奇，浮云，晻上驰。
体容与，万里，今安匹，龙为友。
元狩三年马生渥洼水中作。
天马徠，从西极，涉流沙，九夷服。
translation: 
The long beautiful bird in front emits light to illuminate the sky. It is not bad in cold and heat. It is given to the king to commend the virtuous.
The performance of poetry and music is played by the sound of jade, and the palace tune is filled with weak horn sounds, high pitched and crisp sounds.
The singing voices are high-pitched and overlapped with Shang tunes, creating such a new type of music that will be preserved forever.
The sound is long and flowing, the phoenix bird soars, and the gods happily enjoy the sacrifices. "Heaven and Earth" 8
After Prime Minister Kuang Heng played "Fu Embroidery Zhou Zhang", he changed the poem to "Sure as an Old Classic".
How can there be an end to the sun’s appearance?
Time will not be equal to human lifespan.
Therefore, spring is not my spring, summer is not my summer, autumn is not my autumn, and winter is not my winter.
Compared with the life span of human beings, the sun is like the four seas, and humans are like the pool of water. What does it mean to see this situation all over the place?
I know how to be happy. I only like to control the six dragons. The six dragons are easy to control. They make my heart smooth.
Why doesn't Huanglong come down?
"Sunrise and Exit" 9
Gifted by Taiyi, Pegasus descended, his body soaked with bloody sweat and dripping with red ocher saliva.
Its ambition is magnificent and its energy is extraordinary. It leaps into the clouds and gallops forward.
With a slight movement of the body, it can cross thousands of miles. What can rival it now? Only the dragon can be its friend.
It was written when Pegasus was born in Wowa Water in the third year of Yuanshou.
The Pegasus came from the far west and waded through the quicksand, and all the ethnic minorities surrendered.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
天马徠，出泉水，虎脊两，化若鬼。
天马徠，历无草，径千里，循东道。
天马徠，执徐时，将摇举，谁与期？
天马徠，开远门，竦予身，逝昆仑。
天马徠，龙之媒，游阊阖，观玉台。
太初四年诛宛王获宛马作。
《天马》十
天门开，詄荡荡，穆并聘，以临飨。
光夜烛，德信著，灵浸鸿，长生豫。
大朱涂广，夷石为堂，饰玉梢以舞歌，体招摇若永望。
星留俞，塞陨光，照紫幄，珠熉黄。
幡比翅回集，贰双飞常羊。
月穆穆以金波，日华耀以宣明。
假清风轧忽，激长至重觞。
神裴回若留放，殣冀亲以肆章。
translation: 
The Pegasus came out of the spring. Its fur was like a tiger's and its back had two sides, changing like ghosts and gods.
Pegasus came from a place where there was no hair and grass, and traveled thousands of miles before reaching the road to Shumian.
When the Pegasus comes, the star will be in the sky, and it will fly high. Who can determine its date?
When the Pegasus comes, it opens the door very far away and carries my body to Kunlun.
The Tianma came as a medium for the dragon, traveling around the Tianmen and watching at the Jade Platform.
In the fourth year of Taichu, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty killed the King of Dayuan and wrote when he obtained the real horse of the Kingdom of Dayuan.
"Pegasus" ten
The gate of heaven is wide open, the sky is empty, and all the gods with solemn expressions are galloping together to come and offer sacrifices.
The divine light shines at night, my virtue and faith are outstanding, and the divine favor is vast. I can live forever, which makes people very happy.
Zhudan was painted everywhere, stones on the road were flattened to build bright halls, flagpoles decorated with jade were used for dancing and singing, and the Beidou painted on them could often be seen.
The stars retained the gods and asked to enjoy their sacrifices. They competed to shine, shining on the purple veil, and the pearl color turned yellow.
Tossing and turning like a double-click of a bird's wings, free and easy.
The soft moonlight emits golden light waves, and the bright sun emits dazzling light.
Coming under the guise of a gentle breeze, it was fast but also took a long time, so I had to keep giving.
The spirit is whirling back and forth, as if it wants to stay, so I can pay him an audience, hoping to show my sincerity in person.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
函蒙祉福常若期，寂谬上天知厥时。
泛泛滇滇从高斿，殷勤此路胪所求。
佻正嘉吉弘以昌，休嘉砰隐溢四方。
专精厉意逝九阂，纷云六幕浮大海。
《天门》十一
景星显见，信星彪列，象载昭庭，日亲以察。
参侔开阖，爰推本纪，汾脽出鼎，皇祜元始。
五音六律，依韦飨昭，杂变并会，雅声远姚。
空桑琴瑟结信成，四兴递代八风生。
殷殷钟石羽龠鸣。
河龙供鲤醇牺牲。
百末旨酒布兰生。
泰尊柘浆析朝酲。
微感心攸通修名，周流常羊思所并。
穰穰复正直往宁，冯蠵切和疏写平。
上天布施后土成，穰穰丰年四时荣。
translation: 
Happiness will be just around the corner, and God alone and far away knows this time.
The mighty and mighty flying upwards followed him, and he served diligently all the way to state what he wanted to ask for.
Happiness and contentment must be promoted and spread loudly to all directions.
Concentrate and invigorate your spirit to fly to the nine heavens, ambitiously travel across the earth and float on the sea.
"Heaven's Gate" Eleven
The scenery stars appear, the stars are arranged prominently, and magical things are hung to make them appear clearly in the court. When the sun shines, they can be seen clearly.
Comparing it with heaven and earth, we must first recommend the current dynasty. The tripod was discovered in the high hills of Fenyin, and great blessings appeared.
The five tones and six rhythms are harmonious and loud. When they meet the noise, the elegant music becomes more melodious.
Kongsang's harp and harp are worthy of their name, and the dancers exchange eight styles with each other in four rows.
The bells and chimes sounded loud and clear.
River dragons provide carp, cattle and sheep are pure colors.
Mix the essence of Baicao into wine, and the wine will be fragrant and beautiful.
Fill a large glass with sugar cane juice to cure hangover.
The subtle induction can make the mind reach as far as the good name announced by heaven, and walk back and forth to think about how to meet the divine way.
God blessed him with many blessings and allowed him to return to the right path. This was his only hope. He Bo ordered Qiaogui to cooperate with the water god to channel the river and make the water flow evenly.
God arranges for the God of Earth to carry out the plan, so that there will always be good harvests and prosperity in all four seasons.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
《景星》十二元鼎五年得鼎汾阴作。
齐房产草，九茎连叶，宫童效异，披图案谍。
玄气之精，回复此都，蔓蔓日茂，芝成灵华。
《齐房》十三元封二年芝生甘泉齐房作。
后皇嘉坛，立玄黄服，物发冀州，兆蒙祉福。
四塞，假狄合处，经营万亿，咸遂厥宇。《后皇》十四
华烨烨，固灵根。
神之斿，过天门，车千乘，敦昆仑。
神之出，排玉房，周流杂，拔兰堂。
神之行，旌容容，骑沓沓，般纵纵。
神之徠，泛翊翊，甘露降，庆云集。
神之揄，临坛宇，九疑宾，夔龙舞。
神安坐，鴹吉时，共翊翊，合所思。
神嘉虞，申贰觞，福滂洋，迈延长。
沛施晁，汾之阿，扬金光，横泰河，莽若云，增阳波。
遍胪欢，腾天歌。
《华烨烨》十五
五神相，包四邻，土地广，扬浮云。
嘉坛，椒兰芳，璧玉精，垂华光。
益亿年，美始兴，交于神，若有承。
广宣延，咸毕觞，灵舆位，偃蹇骧。
卉汩胪，析奚遗？
淫渌泽，汪然归。《五神》十六
朝陇首，览西垠，雷电，获白麟。
translation: 
"Scenery Star" was created when the tripod was obtained in Fenyin in the fifth year of the Twelfth Yuan Dynasty.
The grass produced in the fasting room has many roots with leaves attached. This is a strange sign for the servants in the palace. Expand the map to find the family tree.
The essence of the weather circulates back and forth in the capital city of Yunyang. After a long time, it becomes more and more lush and the grass has aura.
"Qi Fang" was created when Zhi Cao was growing in Ganquan Zhaifang in the second year of Feng Dynasty in the 13th Yuan Dynasty.
Good altars to the gods of earth and gods were built, with black and yellow as the color of the sacrificial robes. The treasure tripod was discovered in Jizhou, and hundreds of millions of people gained happiness.
Numerous border fortresses in all directions, and the Rong and Di in the distance all surrendered, ruling hundreds of millions of people, and all gained their territory. "The Empress" Fourteen
The brilliance shines, and it turns out to be the ancestors.
The gods paraded through the Tianmen, and thousands of vehicles gathered in Kunlun.
The gods came out, set up houses decorated with jade, gathered together in cycles, and lived in Lantang.
The gods are walking, flags are flying, chariots and horses are speeding, and everyone is connected.
The divine haze arrives and floats in the sky, the dew falls, and the five-colored clouds gather.
The gods were attracted to the altar and the palace, and Kui and the dragon danced among the nine doubtful guests.
The gods sit down peacefully and fly high at the auspicious moment, respectfully and politely, in line with people's imagination.
The gods were very happy and drank again and again. The happiness was boundless and lasting.
The blessings bestowed upon him were so great that at the bend of the Fen River, golden light shone, filling the river, as grand as clouds, increasing the light waves of the sun.
Scenes of joy appeared everywhere, and songs rose to the sky.
"Hua Ye Feng" fifteen
The Five Emperors assisted and embraced all directions. The land was vast and clouds were floating above it.
Touching the altar, spreading the fragrance of pepper and orchid, the jade is exquisite and gives off a beautiful luster.
After another 100 million years, Fuqing began to prosper, meeting gods with respectful expressions.
Invite the gods extensively, let the wine glasses be emptied, and the gods' chariots and horses take their places and gallop through the air.
Quickly separate and display, where can you stay after scattering?
After bestowing blessings on Guang Yi, he went back. "Five Gods" 16
I worshiped the head of Longshan Mountain, looked at the western horizon, and when I offered sacrifices, the sound was like thunder and the light was like lightning, and I obtained Bailin.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
爰五止，显黄德，图匈虐，熏鬻殛。
辟流离，抑不详，宾百僚，山河飨。
掩回辕，长驰，腾雨师，洒路陂。
流星陨，感惟风，籋归云，抚怀心。
《朝陇首》十七元狩元年行幸雍获白麟作。
象载瑜，白集西，食甘露，饮荣泉。
赤雁集，六纷员，殊翁杂，五采文。
神所见，施祉福，登蓬莱，结无极。
《象载瑜》十八太始三年行幸东海获赤雁作。
赤蛟绥，黄华盖，露夜零，昼掩。
百君礼，六龙位，勺椒浆，灵已醉。
灵既享，锡吉祥，芒芒极，降嘉觞。
灵殷殷，烂扬光，延寿命，永未央。
杳冥冥，塞六合，泽汪濊，辑万国。
灵禗禗，象舆轙，票然逝，旗逶蛇。
translation: 
Bai Lin has five hooves, shows virtue, and plots evil and cruelty, and the Xiongnu will be destroyed.
Suppress evildoers, suppress bad luck, invite officials from hundreds of gods to be guests, and offer sacrifices to mountains and rivers.
The carriage turned around in an instant and flew very far. The rain god flew up and cleared the road.
When the meteor falls, I sigh with emotion at such a good wind, stepping on the returning clouds to soothe the surrendered soul.
"Chaolongshou" was created by Bai Linshi in the first year of Yuanshou in the 17th year of Yongshi Dynasty.
Red geese are as beautiful as chariots, and the white ones are concentrated in the west. They feed on nectar and drink from clear and glorious spring water.
The red wild geese flew in and gathered together. Six batches of red wild geese came one after another. The fur on the necks of the wild geese was colorful.
This is the blessing given by the appearance of God, ascending to Penglai and reaching the realm of infinity.
"Xiang Zaiyu" was created when he came to the East China Sea in the third year of Taishi in the 18th year and got red geese.
Glittering red like a red dragon, shrouded in yellow golden light, dew falls at night, and clouds are dark during the day.
Pour some pepper-flavored wine for Baishen and Liulong, and they are already drunk.
After the sacrifice is completed, the gods will bestow auspiciousness that is vast and boundless. This is because they are happy with good wine.
The gods are grand, the light is brilliant, the life span is extended, there is no end.
It is vast and boundless, filling the four directions of heaven and earth, and its bounty reaches all nations.
The gods couldn't bear to leave, but the chariot and carriage were ready, and they drifted away with their flags meandering.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
礼乐成，灵将归，托玄德，长无衰。
《赤蛟》十九其余巡狩福应之事，不序郊庙，故弗论。
是时，河间献王有雅材，亦以为治道非礼乐不成，因献所集雅乐。
天子下大乐官，常存肄之，岁时以备数，然不常御，常御及郊庙皆非雅声。
然诗乐施于后嗣，犹得有所祖述。
昔殷、周之《雅》、《颂》，乃上本有娀、姜原，稷始生，玄王、公刘、古公、大伯、王季、姜女、大任、太姒之德，乃及成汤、文、武受命，武丁、成、康、宣王中兴，下及辅佐阿衡、周、召、太公、申伯、召虎、仲山甫之属，君臣男女有功德者，靡不褒扬。
功德既信美矣，褒扬之声盈乎天地之间，是以光名著于当世，遗誉垂于无穷也。
今汉郊庙诗歌，未有祖宗之事，八音调均，又不协于钟律，而内有掖庭材人，外有上林乐府，皆以郑声施于朝廷。
至成帝时，谒者常山王禹世受河间乐，能说其义，其弟子宋晔等上书言之，下大夫博士平当等考试。
当以为： 汉承秦灭道之后，赖先帝圣德，博受兼听，修废官，立大学，河间献王聘求幽隐，修兴雅乐以助化。
时，大儒公孙弘、董仲舒等皆以为音中正雅，立之大乐。
translation: 
After the rituals and music are completed, the gods will return, relying on heaven's virtue and never failing.
In "Red Jiao" 19, there are no records in the suburban temple about some other inspections in other places and Fu Rui's fulfillment, so there is no need to discuss the plan.
At that time, King Xian of Hejian was very talented. He also believed that the rules of governing the country would not work without ritual music, so he presented the official music he had collected for use in suburban temple dynasties.
The emperor gave it to the great music officials and asked them to keep it and practice it. They would use it to make up for the sacrifices every year, but it was not commonly used. The suburban temple music that was usually used was not a formal music.
But for poetry and music to continue to future generations, they must learn from their predecessors and present something.
In the past, the "Ya" and "Song" of the Yin and Zhou Dynasties were inherited by You Ze and Jiang Yuan. When the Gao and Ji began to appear, the virtues of Xuan Wang, Gong Liu, Gu Gong, Uncle, Wang Ji, Jiang Nu, Da Ren and Tai Si made Tang, Wen and Wu accept the virtues of heaven. The order made King Wu Ding, Cheng, Kang, and Xuan prosper from decline, and later came to assist people such as Aheng, Zhou, Zhao, Taigong, Shenbo, Zhaohu, and Zhongshanfu. The monarchs and ministers, men and women, who had meritorious service and moral conduct, were all commended and praised.
Merit and virtue are indeed beautiful, and the voices of praise and praise fill the world. Therefore, the great name is famous in the contemporary era, and the reputation of Qianliu will be passed down endlessly.
The suburban temple poems of the Han Dynasty today do not have the deeds of ancestors, the harmony of the eight tones, and do not match the bell rhythm. Moreover, there are talents from Yeting inside and Yuefu from Shanglin outside, all of which use Zheng Sheng for the imperial court.
When he became emperor, the king of Changshan, King Yu, had taught the music of Hejian for generations and could explain its meaning. His disciples Song Ye and others wrote to the emperor to tell him about it, and the emperor handed it over to the doctor Dr. Pingdang and others for examination.
Pingdang believes that the Han Dynasty was established after the Qin Dynasty wiped out morality. It relied on the saintly virtues of the previous emperors, widely accepted people from all walks of life, renovated the declining official system, established the Imperial Academy, presented kings in Hejian to visit hidden things, and cultivated and collected Zhengle to assist education.
At that time, the great Confucians Gongsun Hong, Dong Zhongshu and others believed that all positive sounds in music were classified into the Taiyue government.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
春秋乡射，作于学官，希阔不讲。
故自公卿大夫观听者，但闻铿鎗，不晓其意，而欲以风谕众庶，其道无由。
是以行之百有余年，德化至今未成。
今晔等守习孤学，大指归于兴助教化。
衰微之学，兴废在人。
宜领属雅乐，以继绝表微。
孔子曰： 人能弘道，非道弘人。 河间区区，小国籓臣，以好学修古，能有所存，民到于今称之，况于圣主广被之资，修起旧文，放郑近雅，述而不作，信而好古，于以风示海内，扬名后世，诚非小功小美也。
事下公卿，以为久远难分明，当议复寝。
是时，郑声尤甚。
黄门名倡丙强、景武之属富显于世，贵戚五侯定陵、富平外戚之家淫侈过度，至与人主争女乐。
translation: 
In the spring and autumn seasons, competitions were held to select scholars, and they were managed by school officials, who were kept distant and not trained.
Therefore, from officials to ordinary people who watch and listen, they only hear the sonorous sound but do not know its meaning. They want to use it to persuade the people. This method has no source.
Therefore, it has been popular for more than a hundred years, and moral education has not yet been formed.
Today, Song Ye and others insist on practicing unique knowledge, and their main purpose is to promote auxiliary education.
The decline and decline of knowledge, its rise and fall, all depend on people.
Zhengle should be collected to continue the decline of unique skills.
Confucius said: People can promote Tao, but Tao cannot promote people. There are only a few small states and vassals in the river. Because they like learning and studying ancient things, they can preserve them. The people still praise them. What's more, a wise monarch has a wide range of qualifications. He writes and compiles old texts, stays away from Zheng Sheng and approaches elegant music. He transmits statements without creating new ideas. He believes in and likes ancient knowledge, so he uses it to advise the country and become famous for future generations. It is really not a small meritorious deed.
The matter was handed over to the ministers for discussion. They thought that the matter was too long to distinguish, and Pingdang's suggestions were withheld.
At this time, Zheng Guo's music became more abundant.
The famous song and dance artists Bingqiang and Jingwu among the imperial officials showed their wealth and wealth to the world. The noble relatives Wuhou Dingling, Fu Pingping and other relatives' families indulged in extravagance and even competed with the emperor for kabuki.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
哀帝自为定陶王时疾之，又性不好音，及即位，下诏曰： 惟世俗奢泰文巧，而郑、卫之声兴。
夫奢泰则下不孙而国贫，文巧则趋末背本者众，郑、卫之声兴则淫辟之化流，而欲黎庶敦朴家给，犹浊其源而求其清流，岂不难哉！
孔子不云乎？ 放郑声，郑声淫。
其罢乐府官。
郊祭乐及古兵法武乐，在经非郑、卫之乐者，条奏，别属他官。
丞相孔光、大司空何武奏： 郊祭乐人员六十二人，给祠南北郊。
大乐鼓员六人，《嘉至》鼓员十人，邯郸鼓员二人，骑吹鼓员三人，江南鼓员二人，淮南鼓员四人，巴俞鼓员三十六人，歌鼓员二十四人，楚严鼓员一人，梁皇鼓员四人，临淮鼓员二十五人，兹邡鼓员三人，凡鼓十二，员百二十八人，朝贺置酒陈殿下，应古兵法。
外郊祭员十三人，诸族乐人兼《云招》给祠南郊用六十七人，兼给事雅乐用四人，夜诵员五人，刚、别柎员二人，给《盛德》主调篪员二人，听工以律知日冬、夏至一人，钟工、磬工、箫工员各一人，仆射二人主领诸乐人，皆不可罢。
translation: 
Emperor Ai had hated these things since he was appointed King of Dingtao, and he didn't like music by nature. When he ascended the throne, he went to Shao and said: Due to the world's customs of extravagance and ink, the music of Zheng and Wei has flourished.
Spending extravagantly will cause the people below to be disobedient and lead to poverty in the country. Flirting and writing will increase the number of people who are rebellious. The prosperity of Zheng Guo and Wei Guo's music will make indulgence and evil education popular. To make the people honest and simple and self-sufficient at home, is it not very difficult to make the source muddy but require the water to be clear?
Didn’t Confucius say that? Stay away from Zheng Guo's music, Zheng Guo's music is evil.
Therefore, Yuefu officials were abolished.
Music for suburban festivals and military music in the ancient art of war, which were in the classics but not music of Zheng and Wei, were played piece by piece and then distributed to other officials.
Prime Minister Kong Guang and Grand Sikong Hewu reported: There are sixty-two suburban sacrificial musicians for worshiping in the northern and southern suburbs.
There are six drummers in Da Le, ten drummers in "Jia Zhi", two drummers in Handan, three drummers in Qi Chui, two drummers in Jiangnan, four drummers in Huainan, thirty-six drummers in Bayu, twenty-four drummers in Song. There is one drummer from Yan, four from Emperor Liang, thirty-five from Linhuai, and three from Zifang. There are twelve drums in total and one hundred and twenty-eight drummers. The banquets purchased for the audience and celebrations are displayed on His Highness's behalf to correspond to the ancient art of war.
In addition, there are thirteen people for the suburban sacrifice, musicians of various ethnic groups and sixty-seven people for "Yunzhao" for the southern suburbs, plus four people for playing formal music, five people for reciting poetry at night, and two drummers for playing Gang and Bie drums. "Shengde" the two people who presided over the music and tuned the music, the craftsman who listened to the music knew the sun's winter and summer solstice according to the music, one craftsman each of the bell craftsman, the chime craftsman, and the flute craftsman, and the two servants and shooters presided over the leadership of the musicians, and they cannot be abolished.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
竽工员三人，一人可罢。
琴工员五人，三人可罢。
柱工员二人，一人可罢。
绳弦工员六人，四人可罢。
郑四会员六十二人，一人给事雅乐，六十一人可罢。
张瑟员八人，七人可罢。
《安世乐》鼓员二十人，十九人可罢。
沛吹鼓员十二人，族歌鼓员二十七人，陈吹鼓员十三人，商乐鼓员十四人，东海鼓员十六人，长乐鼓员十三人，缦乐鼓员十三人，凡鼓八，员百二十八人，朝贺置酒，陈前殿房中，不应经法，治竽员五人，楚鼓员六人，常从倡三十人，常从象人四人，诏随常从倡十六人，秦倡员二十九人，秦倡象人员三人，诏随秦倡一人，雅大人员九人，朝贺置酒为乐。
楚四会员十七人，巴四会员十二人，铫四会员十二人，齐四会员十九人，蔡讴员三人，齐讴员六人，竽、瑟、钟、磬员五人，皆郑声，可罢。
师学百四十二人，其七十二人给大官挏马酒，其七十人可罢。
大凡八百二十九人，其三百八十八人不可罢，可领属大乐，其四百四十一人不应经法，或郑、卫之声，皆可罢。
奏可。
translation: 
There are three Yu craftsmen, one person can be subtracted.
There are five piano craftsmen, and three can be laid off.
There are two pillar craftsmen, and one person can be eliminated.
There are six craftsmen who string the strings, and four can be cut.
There are sixty-two people in Zheng Guo's party with the four directions of music and dance. One person is used to preside over the music, and the remaining sixty-one people can be eliminated.
There are eight craftsmen working for Sebu Xian, and seven can be laid off. The drummer of "An Shile" is Erbu Ren.
Nineteen people can be cut.
There were twelve drummers in Pei, twenty-seven drummers in folk songs, three drummers in military formations, four drummers in Shang music, sixteen drummers in Shuhai, thirteen drummers in Changle, and thirteen drummers in miscellaneous music. There were eight drums in total and one hundred and twenty-eight drummers. The banquet arranged for the audience celebration was placed in the room in the front hall, which was not in accordance with the scriptures. There are five people who study Yu weapons, six people who are Chu drummers, three people who usually follow singing and dancing artists, and four people who follow people who wear masks. There are sixteen people who usually accompany the singers and dancers, twenty-nine singers and dancers of Qin State, three of the singers and dancers of Qin State who wear masks, one person who follows the singers and dancers of Qin State, and Yaren, who are ordinary people, who come to the court to celebrate, serve wine and play music.
The number of people who played the music of Chu State to toast people and celebrate their birthdays was ten people. The people who played the music of Ba people were ten people and two people. The people who played the music of Jian State were twelve people. The people who played the music of Qi State were nineteen people. The people of Cai singing were three people. The people of Qi singing were six people. The people of five people were playing the music of Yu Se and Zhong Qing. They are all the music of Zheng State and can be abolished.
There are one hundred and forty-two people who are studying under the teacher, twelve of them are used for the Tongma Wine Palace of the eunuch, and the remaining seventy people can be reduced.
These totaled eight hundred and twenty-nine persons. Among them, 388 people cannot be exempted and can be assigned to the Taiyue government. The remaining 441 people can be exempted because they do not conform to the scriptures or are the music of Zheng and Wei.
This memorial was approved.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
然百姓渐渍日久，又不制雅乐有以相变，豪富吏民湛沔自若，陵夷坏于王莽。
今海内更始，民人归本，户口岁息，平其刑辟，牧以贤良，至于家给，既庶且富，则须庠序、礼乐之教化矣。
今幸有前圣遗制之威仪，诚可法象而补备之，经纪可因缘而存著也。
孔子曰： 殷因于夏礼，所损益可知也；周因于殷礼，所损益可知也；其或继周者，虽百世可知也。
今大汉继周，久旷大仪，未有立礼成乐，此贾谊、仲舒、王吉、刘向之徒所为发愤而增叹也。
translation: 
However, the common people have been infected by Nissan for a long time, and they have not produced Zhengle to change it accordingly. The wealthy officials and people are still indulged in it, and it gradually declined and even fell into the hands of Wang Mang.
Now the country is starting over, the people are returning to the basics, the household registration is increasing year by year, criminal crimes are being dealt with, and good and capable people are used to rule the country. As for family autonomy, if there are many and rich, it is necessary to carry out etiquette and music education in schools.
Fortunately, now there are the etiquette details of the system left by the wise people of the previous generation, which can be imitated and supplemented, so that the laws can be preserved significantly.
King Kong said: The Yin Dynasty followed the rituals of the Xia Dynasty, and after adding and subtracting them, we can know the Xia rituals; the Dan Dynasty followed the chisel rituals, and adding and subtracting them, we can know the Yin rituals; later, if someone inherited the Zhou rituals, we can know them within a hundred years.
Now Zuo Hui continues to scrape, and for a long time there has been a lack of etiquette, and no etiquette system has been established to form a music system. This is the reason why Jia Yi, Dong Zhongshu, Wang Zhou, Xing Xue and others were so angry that they lamented.


