Chunk 0: 
original: 
黥布者，六人也，姓英氏。秦时为布衣。
少年，有客相之曰： 当刑而王。
及壮，坐法黥。
布欣然笑曰； 人相我当刑而王，几是乎？
人有闻者，共俳笑之。
布已论输丽山，丽山之徒数十万人，布皆与其徒长豪桀交通，乃率其曹偶，亡之江中为群盗。
陈胜之起也，布乃见番君，与其众叛秦，聚兵数千人。
番君以其女妻之。
章邯之灭陈胜，破吕臣军，布乃引兵北击秦左右校，破之清波，引兵而东。
闻项梁定江东会稽，涉江而西。陈婴以项氏世为楚将，乃以兵属项梁，渡淮南，英布、蒲将军亦以兵属项梁。
项梁涉淮而西，击景驹、秦嘉等，布常冠军。
项梁至薛，闻陈王定死，乃立楚怀王。
项梁号为武信君，英布为当阳君。
项梁败死定陶，怀王徙都彭城，诸将英布亦皆保聚彭城。
当是时，秦急围赵，赵数使人请救。
怀王使宋义为上将，范曾为末将，项籍为次将，英布、蒲将军皆为将军，悉属宋义，北救赵。
及项籍杀宋义於河上，怀王因立籍为上将军，诸将皆属项籍。
项籍使布先渡河击秦，布数有利，籍乃悉引兵涉河从之，遂破秦军，降章邯等。
楚兵常胜，功冠诸侯。
诸侯兵皆以服属楚者，以布数以少败众也。
项籍之引兵西至新安，又使布等夜击阬章邯秦卒二十馀万人。
至关，不得入，又使布等先从间道破关下军，遂得入，至咸阳。
布常为军锋。
项王封诸将，立布为九江王，都六。
汉元年四月，诸侯皆罢戏下，各就国。
项氏立怀王为义帝，徙都长沙，乃阴令九江王布等行击之。
其八月，布使将击义帝，追杀之郴县。
汉二年，齐王田荣畔楚，项王往击齐，徵兵九江，九江王布称病不往，遣将将数千人行。
汉之败楚彭城，布又称病不佐楚。
项王由此怨布，数使使者诮让召布，布愈恐，不敢往。
项王方北忧齐、赵，西患汉，所与者独九江王，又多布材，欲亲用之，以故未击。
汉三年，汉王击楚，大战彭城，不利，出梁地，至虞，谓左右曰： 如彼等者，无足与计天下事。
translation: 
Qingbu is from Liuxian County and his surname is Ying. During the Qin Dynasty, he was a common man.
When he was a child, a guest showed him a fortune and said: After being tortured, I will be king.
When he reached his prime, he broke the law and was sentenced to tattoo.
Tingbu smiled happily and said: Someone showed me a picture and said that I should be king after being tortured. Now, this is probably the situation, right?
Everyone who heard him say this laughed at him.
Not long after his conviction, Yingbu was sent to Lishan for hard labor. There were hundreds of thousands of prisoners in Lishan.
When Chen Sheng rebelled, Ying Bu went to see Wu Rui, the magistrate of Fan County, and rebelled against the Qin Dynasty with his men, gathering a team of several thousand people.
Magistrate Fan even married his daughter to him.
After Zhang Han eliminated Chen Sheng and defeated Lu Chen's army, Yingbu led his troops north to attack Qin's left and right schools, defeated them at Qingbo, and then led his troops to advance eastward.
Yingbu heard that Xiang Liang had pacified Kuaiji in the east of the Yangtze River and crossed the Yangtze River to march west. Chen Ying led his army to Xiang Liang because Xiang had been the general of the Chu State for generations, and crossed the Huai River southward. Generals Yingbu and Pu also led their troops to join Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang led his troops across the Huaihe River and marched westward. In the battles against Jingju, Qin Jia and others, Qingbu was brave and good at fighting and was always ranked first among the troops.
Xiang Liang arrived in Xuedi and heard that King Chen was indeed dead, so he supported King Huai of Chu.
Xiang Liang was called Wu Xinjun, and Yingbu was called Dangyang Lord.
Xiang Liang was defeated and died in Dingtao. King Huai of Chu moved his capital to Pengcheng, and the generals and Yingbu also gathered in Pengcheng to guard it.
At this time, the Qin army stepped up its siege on Zhao State, and Zhao State repeatedly sent people to ask for help.
King Huai of Chu sent Song Yi as the top general, Fan Zeng as the last general, Xiang Ji as the second general, Yingbu and Pu as generals, all under Song Yi's command, to rescue Zhao State in the north.
When Xiang Ji killed Song Yi on the bank of the Yellow River, King Huai took advantage of the situation and appointed Xiang Ji as general, and all generals were under Xiang Ji's control.
Xiang Ji sent Yingbu to take the lead in crossing the Yellow River to attack the Qin army. Yingbu had the advantage due to his repeated military exploits. Xiang Ji led all his troops across the Yellow River and fought in coordination with Yingbu. They defeated the Qin army and forced Zhang Han and others to surrender.
The Chu army won many battles and conquered all the princes.
The reason why the armies of various princes can gradually surrender to Chu is because Yingbu can command the army to defeat many with less, which is impressive!
Xiang Ji led his troops westward to Xin'an, and sent Yingbu and others to attack at night and bury more than 200,000 Zhang Han's subordinates alive.
When they arrived outside Hangu Pass and could not enter, they sent Yingbu and others to take a small path to attack the defenders under the pass before entering the pass and reaching Xianyang City.
Yingbu often served as a pioneer.
King Xiang granted titles to the generals, named Yingbu the King of Jiujiang, and made six counties his capital.
In April of the first year of Han Dynasty, all the princes left the theater and returned to their respective feudal states.
King Xiang supported King Huai as the righteous emperor and moved the capital to Changsha, but secretly ordered Wang Yingbu of Jiujiang and others to sneak attack him on the way.
In August of that year, Yingbo sent generals to attack Emperor Yi and chased him to Chen County and killed him.
In the second year of the Han Dynasty, King Tian Rong of Qi betrayed the State of Chu. King Xiang went to attack Qi and mobilized troops to Jiujiang. The King of Jiujiang excused himself because he was seriously ill and could not go, so he only sent generals with several thousand people to enlist.
The king of Han defeated the Chu army in Pengcheng, and Yingbu excused himself from assisting Chu due to illness.
King Xiang resented Yingbu and repeatedly sent envoys to blame Yingbu and summon him to go. Yingbo became more and more frightened and did not dare to go.
King Xiang was worried about Qi and Zhao in the north, and worried about the Han Dynasty in the west. The only one he knew well was the King of Jiujiang. The King of Han particularly valued Yingbu's talents and planned to get close to him and appoint him, so he did not attack him.
In the third year of the Han Dynasty, the King of Han attacked Chu and launched a large-scale war in Pengcheng. After the defeat, he retreated from Liang and came to Yu County. He said to those close to him: People like you are not worthy of planning world affairs together.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
谒者随何进曰： 不审陛下所谓。
汉王曰： 孰能为我使淮南，令之发兵倍楚，留项王於齐数月，我之取天下可以百全。
随何曰： 臣请使之。
乃与二十人俱，使淮南。
至，因太宰主之，三日不得见。
随何因说太宰曰： 王之不见何，必以楚为彊，以汉为弱，此臣之所以为使。
使何得见，言之而是邪，是大王所欲闻也；言之而非邪，使何等二十人伏斧质淮南市，以明王倍汉而与楚也。
太宰乃言之王，王见之。
随何曰： 汉王使臣敬进书大王御者，窃怪大王与楚何亲也。
淮南王曰： 寡人北乡而臣事之。
随何曰： 大王与项王俱列为诸侯，北乡而臣事之，必以楚为彊，可以讬国也。
项王伐齐，身负板筑，以为士卒先，大王宜悉淮南之众，身自将之，为楚军前锋，今乃发四千人以助楚。
夫北面而臣事人者，固若是乎？
夫汉王战於彭城，项王未出齐也，大王宜骚淮南之兵渡淮，日夜会战彭城下，大王抚万人之众，无一人渡淮者，垂拱而观其孰胜。
夫讬国於人者，固若是乎？
大王提空名以乡楚，而欲厚自讬，臣窃为大王不取也。
然而大王不背楚者，以汉为弱也。
夫楚兵虽彊，天下负之以不义之名，以其背盟约而杀义帝也。
然而楚王恃战胜自彊，汉王收诸侯，还守成皋、荥阳，下蜀、汉之粟，深沟壁垒，分卒守徼乘塞，楚人还兵，间以梁地，深入敌国八九百里，欲战则不得，攻城则力不能，老弱转粮千里之外；楚兵至荥阳、成皋，汉坚守而不动，进则不得攻，退则不得解。
故曰楚兵不足恃也。
使楚胜汉，则诸侯自危惧而相救。
夫楚之彊，適足以致天下之兵耳。
故楚不如汉，其势易见也。
今大王不与万全之汉而自讬於危亡之楚，臣窃为大王惑之。
translation: 
Sui He, who was responsible for conveying the report, came forward and said, "I don't understand what your Majesty means."
The king of Han said: Who can send an envoy to Huainan for me, let them mobilize the army, betray Chu, and restrain King Xiang in Qi for a few months? Then I will be sure to seize the world.
Sui He said: I request to be sent as an envoy to Huainan.
The king of Han gave him twenty men to go on an envoy to Huainan.
After arriving, because Dazai was in charge, he waited for three days but could not see the King of Huainan.
Sui He took the opportunity to lobby Dazai and said: If the king doesn't summon me, he must think that Chu is strong and Han is weak. This is the reason why I am sent as an envoy.
I was summoned. If what I said was right, it was exactly what the king wanted to hear. But if what I said was wrong, let twenty of us lie on the chopping block and chop to death with an ax in Huainan Square. To show the king's intention to betray Han and get closer to Chu.
Dazai then conveyed the message to King Huainan, who received him.
Sui He said: The King of Han sent me to respectfully write a letter to the King. I secretly felt strange as to why the King was so close to the State of Chu.
King Huainan said: I face the north and serve him as a minister.
Sui He said: The king and King Xiang were both classified as princes, and they went north to serve him as ministers. They must have thought that the state of Chu was powerful and could entrust the country to him.
When King Xiang attacked Qi, he personally carried the tools to build the wall and took the lead. The king should dispatch all the troops in Huainan and lead them personally as the vanguard of the Chu army. Now he only sends four thousand people to help Chu.
Is this what the ministers who serve others are like when they face the north?
The King of Han is fighting in Pengcheng. Before King Xiang has sent troops to Qi, the king should mobilize all the troops in Huainan to cross the Huaihe River and help King Xiang and King of Han fight day and night under Pengcheng. The king has tens of thousands of people, but no one has crossed the Huaihe River. He is watching who wins and who loses with his clothes hanging down.
Is this what a person who entrusts his country to others is originally like?
The king pretends to be returning to Chu State, but he wants to rely on himself. I privately think that it is not advisable for the king to do this.
However, the king did not abandon Chu because he believed that Han was weak.
Even though Chu's army was strong, it still had a reputation of being unjust in the world because he broke the covenant and killed the Righteous Emperor.
However, the King of Chu thought he was powerful by virtue of his victory in the war. After the King of Han gathered the princes, he returned to garrison Chenggao and Xingyang. He transported grains from Shu and Han, dug deep trenches, built high barriers, and divided his troops to guard the border fortresses. If the Chu State wanted to withdraw its troops, there was Liang State in the middle, and the deep After entering the enemy's territory for eight or nine hundred miles, if you want to fight, you can't win, you can't attack the city, and the old and weak soldiers are transported thousands of miles away. When the Chu army reaches Xingyang and Chenggao, the Han army is standing still. It can't be broken when it attacks, and it can't escape the pursuit of the Han army when it retreats.
Therefore, Chu's army is not enough to rely on.
If the Chu army defeats the Han army, then the princes will be in danger and must rescue each other.
Once the state of Chu becomes powerful, it will be attacked by armies from all over the world.
Therefore, the situation of Chu State being inferior to Han State is obvious.
Now that the king is not friendly with the infallible Han State, but entrusts himself to the endangered Chu State, I privately feel puzzled for the king.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
臣非以淮南之兵足以亡楚也。
夫大王发兵而倍楚，项王必留；留数月，汉之取天下可以万全。
臣请与大王提剑而归汉，汉王必裂地而封大王，又况淮南，淮南必大王有也。
故汉王敬使使臣进愚计，原大王之留意也。
淮南王曰： 请奉命。
阴许畔楚与汉，未敢泄也。
楚使者在，方急责英布发兵，舍传舍。
随何直入，坐楚使者上坐，曰： 九江王已归汉，楚何以得发兵？
布愕然。
楚使者起。
何因说布曰： 事已搆，可遂杀楚使者，无使归，而疾走汉并力。
布曰： 如使者教，因起兵而击之耳。
於是杀使者，因起兵而攻楚。
楚使项声、龙且攻淮南，项王留而攻下邑。
数月，龙且击淮南，破布军。
布欲引兵走汉，恐楚王杀之，故间行与何俱归汉。
淮南王至，上方踞床洗，召布入见，布大怒，悔来，欲自杀。
出就舍，帐御饮食从官如汉王居，布又大喜过望。
於是乃使人入九江。
楚已使项伯收九江兵，尽杀布妻子。
布使者颇得故人幸臣，将众数千人归汉。
汉益分布兵而与俱北，收兵至成皋。
四年七月，立布为淮南王，与击项籍。
汉五年，布使人入九江，得数县。
六年，布与刘贾入九江，诱大司马周殷，周殷反楚，遂举九江兵与汉击楚，破之垓下。
项籍死，天下定，上置酒。上折随何之功，谓何为腐儒，为天下安用腐儒。
随何跪曰： 夫陛下引兵攻彭城，楚王未去齐也，陛下发步卒五万人，骑五千，能以取淮南乎？
上曰： 不能。
随何曰： 陛下使何与二十人使淮南，至，如陛下之意，是何之功贤於步卒五万人骑五千也。
然而陛下谓何腐儒，为天下安用腐儒，何也？ 上曰： 吾方图子之功。
乃以随何为护军中尉。
布遂剖符为淮南王，都六，九江、庐江、衡山、豫章郡皆属布。
七年，朝陈。
八年，朝雒阳。
九年，朝长安。
十一年，高后诛淮阴侯，布因心恐。
夏，汉诛梁王彭越，醢之，盛其醢遍赐诸侯。
至淮南，淮南王方猎，见醢，因大恐，阴令人部聚兵，候伺旁郡警急。
translation: 
I don't think Huainan's army is enough to destroy Chu.
As long as the king sends troops to betray the Chu State, King Xiang will definitely be restrained. As long as he is restrained for a few months, the King of Han will be able to seize the world without fail.
I request you to carry a sword and surrender to the Han Kingdom. The King of Han will definitely divide the land and grant it to the king. Not to mention Huainan. Huainan will definitely belong to the king.
Therefore, the king of Han seriously sent envoys to propose immature strategies, hoping that the king would seriously consider them.
King Huainan said: I will follow your advice.
He secretly agreed to betray Chu and return to Han, but did not dare to reveal this secret.
At this time, the Chu State's envoy was still in Huainan, urging Yingbu to send troops and stayed in a guest house.
Sui He rushed in, sat on the table of Chu's envoys, and said, "The king of Jiujiang has surrendered to the king of Han. Why should Chu let him send troops?"
Yingbu looked surprised.
The envoy from Chu State stood up to leave.
Sui He took the opportunity to persuade Yingbu: "The important thing has been accomplished. We can kill the Chu envoy immediately. We cannot let him go back. Let's move closer to the Han Dynasty and fight together."
Yingbu said: Just follow your instructions and send troops to attack Chu.
So he killed the envoy and sent troops to attack Chu.
Chu State then sent Xiang Sheng and Long Qie to attack Huainan, while King Xiang stayed to attack Xiayi.
The war lasted for several months, and Long Qie defeated Yingbu's army in the battle of Huainan.
Yingbu wanted to lead his troops to retreat to Han, but he was afraid that Chu's army would intercept and kill him, so he and Suihe fled back to Han through a hidden trail.
When King Huainan arrived, the King of Han was sitting on the bed washing his feet, so he asked Yingbu to see him. When Yingbu saw this, he was so angry that he regretted coming and wanted to commit suicide.
When he exited and came to the hotel prepared for him, Yingbu was overjoyed again when he saw that the curtains, utensils, food, and attendant officials were as luxurious as those of the King of Han.
So he sent people to Jiujiang.
At this time, the King of Chu had sent Xiang Bo to recruit Jiujiang's troops and killed Yingbu's wife and children.
The people sent by Yingbu found Yingbu's friends and close subordinates, and took thousands of people to defect to the king of Han.
The king of Han gave Yingbu more troops and went north with him to recruit troops at Chenggao.
In July of the fourth year of Han Dynasty, the king of Han granted Yingbu the title of King of Huainan, and together with him he attacked Xiang Ji.
In the fifth year of the Han Dynasty, Yingbu sent people into Jiujiang and captured several counties.
In the sixth year of the Han Dynasty, Yingbu and Liu Jia entered Jiujiang and lured the great Sima Zhou Yin to surrender. After Zhou Yin rebelled against the Chu State, he mobilized the Jiujiang army and the Han army to jointly attack the Chu State and defeated the Chu army in Gaixia.
After Xiang Ji's death, the world was at peace. The emperor held a banquet, but belittled Sui He's achievements, saying that Sui He was a pedantic, conservative, and out-of-date scholar. How could such a person be used to govern the world.
Sui He knelt before the emperor and said: When your Majesty led troops to attack Pengcheng, the King of Chu had not yet left Qi. Your Majesty mobilized 50,000 infantry and 5,000 cavalry. Can you capture Huainan with this small force?
The emperor said: No.
Sui He said: Your Majesty sent me and 20 people as an envoy to Huainan. As soon as we arrived, Your Majesty got what he wanted. My contribution is greater than the 50,000 infantry and 5,000 cavalry.
But Your Majesty said that I am a pedantic, conservative and outdated scholar. Why is this? The emperor said: I am considering your contribution.
So he appointed Sui He as the guard lieutenant.
Yingbu cut off his talisman and became the king of Huainan. He established six counties as his capital. Jiujiang, Lujiang, Hengshan and Yuzhang counties all belonged to Yingbu.
In the seventh year of the Han Dynasty, Yingbu went to Chen County to meet the emperor.
In the eighth year of the Han Dynasty, he went to Luoyang to meet with him.
In the ninth year of Han Dynasty, he went to Chang'an to meet with him.
In the eleventh year of the Han Dynasty, Empress Gao executed Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, and Yingbu was frightened.
In the summer of this year, the king of Han killed Peng Yue, the king of Liang, and chopped him into meat paste. He packed the meat paste and gave it to the princes.
When he was sent to Huainan, the king of Huainan was hunting. He was particularly frightened when he saw the meat paste. He secretly made arrangements to gather troops to wait and detect the unexpected emergency in neighboring counties.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
布所幸姬疾，请就医，医家与中大夫贲赫对门，姬数如医家，贲赫自以为侍中，乃厚餽遗，从姬饮医家。
姬侍王，从容语次，誉赫长者也。
王怒曰： 汝安从知之？
具说状。
王疑其与乱。
赫恐，称病。
王愈怒，欲捕赫。
赫言变事，乘传诣长安。
布使人追，不及。
赫至，上变，言布谋反有端，可先未发诛也。
上读其书，语萧相国。相国曰： 布不宜有此，恐仇怨妄诬之。
请击赫，使人微验淮南王。
淮南王布见赫以罪亡，上变，固已疑其言国阴事；汉使又来，颇有所验，遂族赫家，发兵反。
反书闻，上乃赦贲赫，以为将军。
上召诸将问曰： 布反，为之柰何？
皆曰； 发兵击之，阬竖子耳。
何能为乎！ 汝阴侯滕公召故楚令尹问之。令尹曰： 是故当反。
滕公曰： 上裂地而王之，疏爵而贵之，南面而立万乘之主，其反何也？
令尹曰： 往年杀彭越，前年杀韩信，此三人者，同功一体之人也。自疑祸及身，故反耳。
滕公言之上曰： 臣客故楚令尹薛公者，其人有筹筴之计，可问。
上乃召见问薛公。
薛公对曰： 布反不足怪也。
使布出於上计，山东非汉之有也；出於中计，胜败之数未可知也；出於下计，陛下安枕而卧矣。
上曰： 何谓上计？
令尹对曰： 东取吴，西取楚，并齐取鲁，传檄燕、赵，固守其所，山东非汉之有也。
何谓中计？
东取吴，西取楚，并韩取魏，据敖庾之粟，塞成皋之口，胜败之数未可知也。
何谓下计？
东取吴，西取下蔡，归重於越，身归长沙，陛下安枕而卧，汉无事矣。
translation: 
Yingbu's favored concubine fell ill and was sent to the doctor. The doctor's house lived across the street from the doctor's house. The concubine went to the doctor's house many times for treatment. Ben He thought that he was a servant, so he sent generous gifts and drank with his concubine at the doctor's house.
When my concubine was serving the King of Huainan, she praised Ben He as a loyal and honest person.
King Huainan said angrily: "How do you know?"
The concubine told him everything about their relationship.
The King of Huainan suspected that she had an adulterous relationship with Ben He.
Ben He was frightened and excused himself from going to work because he was sick.
The king of Huainan became even more angry and wanted to arrest Ben He.
Benhe wanted to report Yingbu's rebellion, so he took a post car to Chang'an.
Yingbu sent people to chase him but failed to catch up.
Ben He arrived in Chang'an and wrote a letter to declare rebellion, saying that Ying showed signs of rebellion and could be killed before the rebellion.
The emperor read his report and discussed it with Xiao Xiangguo. Xiangguo said: Yingbu should not have such a thing, I am afraid that he is framed because of a grudge.
Please imprison Ben He and send people to spy on King Huainan secretly.
When the King of Huainan saw that Ben He was absconding in fear of crime, he wrote a letter to change his words. He had already suspected that Ben He would reveal his secret arrangements, so the King of Han sent envoys again. After considerable verification, he killed Ben He's entire family and launched an army to rebel.
When news of the rebellion reached Chang'an, the emperor released Ben He and made him a general.
The emperor summoned the generals and asked: Yingbu rebels, what should be done to him?
The generals all said: Send troops to beat him and bury this kid alive, what else can we do!
Teng Gong, the Marquis of Ruyin, summoned Yin, the former magistrate of Chu State, to ask about this matter. Ling Yin said: He was supposed to be a rebel.
Teng Gong said: The emperor divided the land and made him the king, gave him titles to make him noble, faced the south to listen to the government and made him the lord of ten thousand chariots. Why did he rebel?
Ling Yin said: "Peng Yue was killed last year, and Han Xin was killed the year before. These three people have the same merits and are the same type of people. Naturally, they suspected that the disaster was affecting them, so they rebelled."
Teng Gong told the emperor these words and said: My retainer is the former Chu State Commander Yin Xue Gong. This man is very wise. You can ask him.
The emperor summoned Duke Xue.
Duke Xue replied: It is not surprising that Yingbu rebelled.
If Yingbu comes up with a good plan, the Shandong region will no longer belong to the Han Dynasty; if he comes up with a middle plan, it's hard to say who will win; if he comes up with a bad plan, your majesty can rest easy.
The emperor said: What is the best policy?
Ling Yin replied: If we seize Wu State to the east, Chu State to the west, annex Qi State, occupy Lu State, and send a message to Yan and Zhao to stick to their homeland, Shandong area will no longer belong to the King of Han.
The emperor asked again: What is Zhongce?
Ling Yin replied: Go east to capture Wu, go west to capture Chu, annex South Korea and capture Wei, seize Aoyu's grain, blockade Chenggao's main roads, it is difficult to predict who will win and who will lose.
The emperor asked again: What is the next step?
Ling Yin replied: If you seize Wu State to the east, Xia Cai to the west, move the baggage and treasures to Yue State, and run to Changsha yourself, your Majesty will be able to sleep at ease. The Han Dynasty was fine.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
上曰： 是计将安出？
令尹对曰： 出下计。
上曰： 何谓废上中计而出下计？
令尹曰： 布故丽山之徒也，自致万乘之主，此皆为身，不顾後为百姓万世虑者也，故曰出下计。 上曰： 善。
封薛公千户。
乃立皇子长为淮南王。
上遂发兵自将东击布。
布之初反，谓其将曰： 上老矣，厌兵，必不能来。使诸将，诸将独患淮阴、彭越，今皆已死，馀不足畏也。
故遂反。
果如薛公筹之，东击荆，荆王刘贾走死富陵。
尽劫其兵，渡淮击楚。
楚发兵与战徐、僮间，为三军，欲以相救为奇。
或说楚将曰： 布善用兵，民素畏之。
且兵法，诸侯战其地为散地。
今别为三，彼败吾一军，馀皆走，安能相救！
不听。
布果破其一军，其二军散走。
遂西，与上兵遇蕲西，会甀。
布兵精甚，上乃壁庸城，望布军置陈如项籍军，上恶之。
与布相望见，遥谓布曰： 何苦而反？
布曰： 欲为帝耳。
上怒骂之，遂大战。
布军败走，渡淮，数止战，不利，与百馀人走江南。
布故与番君婚，以故长沙哀王使人绐布，伪与亡，诱走越，故信而随之番阳。番阳人杀布兹乡民田舍，遂灭黥布。
立皇子长为淮南王，封贲赫为期思侯，诸将率多以功封者。
太史公曰：英布者，其先岂春秋所见楚灭英、六，皋陶之後哉？
身被刑法，何其拔兴之暴也！
项氏之所阬杀人以千万数，而布常为首虐。
功冠诸侯，用此得王，亦不免於身为世大僇。
祸之兴自爱姬殖，妒媢生患，竟以灭国！
translation: 
The emperor said: Which strategy will Yingbu choose?
Ling Yin replied: Choose the next best thing.
The emperor said: Why did he give up the best policy or the middle policy and choose the worst policy?
Ling Yin said: Yingbu was originally a prisoner of Lishan, and he worked hard to become the master of ten thousand chariots. This was all for his own wealth, without caring about the current people or future generations, so he chose the wrong strategy. The emperor said: Well said.
Grant Xue Gong the title of Marquis of Thousand Households.
The prince Liu Chang was canonized as King of Huainan.
The emperor mobilized the army and personally led the eastward attack on Yingbu.
At the beginning of the rebellion, Yingbu said to his generals: The emperor is old and hates fighting. He must not be able to lead troops in person and send generals. The generals are only afraid of Huaiyin and Peng Yue. Now that they are dead, the other generals have nothing to fear.
So rebelled.
As Duke Xue expected, he went east to attack Jing State. King Liu Jia of Jing fled and died in Fuling.
Yingbu hijacked all his troops and crossed the Huaihe River to attack Chu.
The state of Chu mobilized its troops to fight Yingbu between Xu and Tong. The state of Chu divided its troops into three groups and tried to adopt a strange strategy of mutual rescue.
Someone advised the Chu general: Yingbu is good at using troops to fight, and the people have always been afraid of him.
Moreover, the Art of War says: When princes fight the enemy in their own territory, once the soldiers are in danger, they will flee.
Now the troops are divided into three groups. As long as they defeat one of our troops, the rest will run away. How can they rescue each other?
The Chu general did not listen to the advice.
Sure enough, Yingbo defeated one of the armies, and the other two armies fled in all directions.
Yingbu's army advanced westward and met the emperor's army at Huizhen, west of Qixian County.
Yingbu's army was very elite, so the emperor hid in the fortress of Yongcheng and could not get out. When he saw that Yingbu's formation was just like Xiang Ji's army, the emperor was very disgusted with him.
Seeing Yingbu from a distance, he said to Yingbu from a distance: Why bother to rebel?
Yingbu said: I want to be the emperor!
The emperor was furious and scolded him, and then the two armies fought.
Yingbu's army was defeated and fled, crossing the Huaihe River. They stopped and fought several times, but all failed, so they had to flee to the south of the Yangtze River with more than a hundred people.
Yingbu was originally married to the magistrate of Fan County. Therefore, King Ai of Changsha sent someone to trick Yingbu into fleeing to South Vietnam. Yingbu believed him and followed him to Fanyang. The Fanyang people killed Yingbu in the houses of the people in Zixiang and finally destroyed Yingbu.
The emperor appointed Prince Liu Chang as the King of Huainan, and granted Benhe the title of Marquis of Si. Most of the generals were rewarded for their military exploits.
Tai Shigong said: Yingbu, are his ancestors the descendants of the British and Six Kingdoms Gaotao who were destroyed by the Chu Kingdom as recorded in the "Spring and Autumn"?
He himself was tattooed, so why could he rise to prominence so quickly?
Xiang killed thousands of people and buried them alive, and Yingbu was often the culprit.
His merits were ranked highest among the princes, so he was able to become king, but he could not avoid suffering the greatest humiliation in the world.
The root of the disaster is caused by concubine love. Jealousy leads to disaster, which actually leads to the destruction of the country.


