Chunk 0: 
original: 
昔在黄帝，作舟车以济不通，旁行天下，方制万里，画野分州，得百里之国万区。
是故《易》称 先王建万国，亲诸侯 ，《书》云 协和万国 ，此之谓也。
尧遭洪水，怀山襄陵，天下分绝，为十二州，使禹治之。
水土既平，更制九州，列五服，任土作贡。
曰：禹敷土，随山刊木，奠高山大川。
冀州既载，壶口治梁及岐。
既修太原，至于岳阳。
覃怀底绩，至于衡章。
厥土惟白壤。
厥赋上上错，厥田中中。
恒、卫既从，大陆既作。
鸟夷皮服，夹右碣石，入于河。
泲、河惟兖州。
九河既道，雷夏既泽，雍、沮会同，桑土既蚕，是降丘宅土。
厥土黑坟，草繇木条。
厥田中下，赋贞，作十有三年乃同。
厥贡漆丝，厥棐织文。
浮于泲、漯，通于河。
海、岱惟青州。
虫禺夷既略，惟、甾其道。
厥土白坟，海濒广澙。
田上下，赋中上。
贡盐、絺，海物惟错，岱畎丝、枲、钅公、松、怪石，莱夷作牧，厥棐檿丝。
浮于汶，达于泲。
海、岱及淮惟徐州。
淮、沂其乂，蒙、羽其艺。
大野既猪，东原厎平。
厥土赤埴坟，草木渐包。
田上中，赋中中。
translation: 
In the past, the Yellow Emperor taught people to make boats and carts to help reach places where roads were impassable. The Yellow Emperor therefore traveled all over the world, planned a territory of thousands of miles, divided the fields into states, and obtained a country with a hundred miles of land, with 10,000 regions.
Therefore, the Book of Changes. "North Gua" says that the former kings established all the kingdoms and got close to the princes, "Shang Shu".
In Yao's time, there was a flood. The mountains were surrounded, the hills were submerged, and the world was separated and isolated. Twelve states were formed, and Dayu was sent to control the floods.
After the flood was settled, it was changed to the regional system of Kyushu, divided into five services, and the tribute was determined according to the land.
"Shangshu" says: Dayu divided the land and cut trees along the mountains as road signs, thus laying the foundation for high mountains and rivers.
Jizhou: It started from Hukou, then Liangshan and Qishan.
After Taiyuan was governed, it was governed all the way to Yueyang.
After the governance in the Qinhuai area achieved results, we reached Zhangshui, which flows across the Yellow River.
The soil in this area is white soil.
The land rent paid for tribute here is the first among the nine, and other varieties are produced. The soil quality here is the fifth.
After the Hengshui River and the Weishui River followed the old river course, Daluze River began to be managed.
The people of Niaoyi used animal skins to make clothes. Yu walked on the right side of Jieshi and entered the Yellow River.
Between Jishui and the Yellow River is Yanzhou.
The nine tributaries of the lower reaches of the Yellow River have been dredged, Leixiaze has merged into a large lake, Yongshui River and Jushui River have merged at Leixiaze, and sericulture has begun where mulberry trees are planted, so people come down from the hills to live on the flat land.
The soil here is dark and fat, the grass is lush and the trees are straight.
The fields here are of the sixth grade, and the tribute is of the ninth grade. It took thirteen years of farming to become the same as in other states.
The tributes here include lacquer and silk, as well as colored silk wrapped in baskets.
Take a boat from Jishui and Luoshui to enter the Yellow River.
Between the sea and Mount Tai is Qingzhou.
After the Yi River was managed, the Weishui River and Zi River were also dredged.
The soil here is white and fertile, and there is a wide salt-alkali land by the sea.
The fields here are of the third class, and the rents and taxes paid are of the fourth class.
Tributes to the court include salt and sesame, as well as various seafood, silk, quail, lead, pine and strange rocks from the Tai Valley area. Lai Yi area can be used for grazing. The tribute here is tussah silk in baskets.
The tributes were carried by boat from Wenshui to Jishui and then transferred to the Yellow River.
Between the sea, Mount Tai and the Huaihe River lies Xuzhou.
After the Huaihe River and Yishui River are controlled, planting can be carried out in the Mengshan and Yushan areas.
Now that Dabi Ze has been filled with water, the Shuyuan area has also been managed.
The soil here is red, sticky, fertile, and lush with vegetation.
The fields here are second-class, and the rents and taxes paid are fifth-class.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
贡土五色，羽畎夏狄，峄阳孤桐，泗濒浮磬，淮夷蠙珠臮鱼，厥棐玄纤缟。
浮于淮、泗，达于河。
淮、海惟扬州。
彭蠡既猪，阳鸟逌居。
三江既人，震泽厎定，簜既敷，草夭木乔。
厥土涂泥。
田下下，赋下上错。
贡金三品，瑶、瑻、簜、齿、革、羽毛，鸟夷卉服，厥棐织贝，厥包橘、柚，锡贡。
均江海，通于淮、泗。
荆及衡阳惟荆州。
江、汉朝宗于海。
九江孔殷，沱，灊既道，云梦土作乂。
厥土涂泥。
田下中，赋上下。
贡羽旄、齿、革，金三品，杶、幹、栝、柏、厉、砥、砮、丹，惟箘簵、楛，三国厎贡厥名，包匦菁茅，厥棐玄纁玑组，九江纳锡大龟。
浮于江、沱、灊、汉，逾于洛，至于南河。
荆、河惟豫州。
伊、洛、瀍、涧既入于河，荥、波既猪，道荷泽，被盟猪，厥土惟壤，下土坟垆。
田中上，赋错上中。
贡漆、枲、絺、纻、棐纤纩，锡贡磬错。
浮于洛，入于河。
华阳，黑水惟梁州。
岷、嶓既艺，沱、灊既道，蔡、蒙旅平，和夷厎绩。
厥土青黎。田下上，赋下中三错。
贡璆、铁、银、镂、砮、磬、熊、罴、狐、狸、织皮。
西顷因桓是俫，浮于灊，逾于沔，入于渭，乱于河。
黑水、西河惟雍州。
弱水既西，泾属渭汭。
漆、沮既从，酆水逌同。
荆、岐既旅，终南、惇物，至于鸟鼠，原隰厎绩，至于猪野。
translation: 
The tribute soil is of five colors, the valley of Yushan is Xia Di, the southern slope of Cicada Mountain produces unique paulownia trees, there are floating stones by the swimming pool that can be used as chimes, the Huaiyi area produces Wangbi pearls and beautiful fish, and there are also black silk bundles and white silk in this area.
Take a boat from Huai River and Swim River to Huanghui.
Between the Huaihe River and the sea is Yangzhou.
Pengli has gathered great water, and this bundle has become a habitat for swan geese.
After the water from Sanjiang flowed into the sea, Zhenze was also pacified. Small and large bamboos grow everywhere, the grass is lush and the trees are tall.
The soil is moist mud.
The fields here are of the ninth grade, and the rents and taxes paid are of the seventh grade, mixed with other categories.
The tribute items were gold, silver, copper, Yao, Suo, Xiaodang, teeth, leather, and feathers. Wuyi wore straw clothes. People put bundles of cloth and shells in baskets, and wrapped oranges and pomelos as tribute.
Came through the Huai River and swimming.
To the south of Jingshan Mountain and to the north of Hengshan Mountain is Jingzhou.
The Yangtze River and Han River flow into the sea.
The Yangtze River passes through Jingshan Mountain and is divided into nine tributaries. After the Tuo River and Dibai River are dredged, the land in Yunmeng can be cultivated.
The soil is moist mud.
The farmland here is of the eighth grade, and the rent paid is the third grade.
The tributes included feathers, teeth, leather, gold, silver, copper, fennel, stems, eucalyptus, cypress, Li, Di, Nu, Dan, as well as Rong and Qu. The three vassal states paid tribute to their famous products, wrapped bayberries and jingmao, colored silk and strings of pearls in baskets, and Jiujiang paid tribute to the giant tortoise.
Take a boat from the Yangtze River, Tuoshui, Dianshui, and Moshui, cross the Luoshui River, and reach the Nanhe River.
Between Jingshan Mountain and the Yellow River is Yuzhou.
After the Yishui, Luoshui, Lushui and Jianshui entered the Yellow River, Rong and Bo filled up the water, dredged the Heze, and built embankments at Mengzhu. The soil in this Xiang is soft, and underneath is fertile black hard soil.
The farmland in this parcel is of the fourth grade, and the rent paid is the second grade, mixed with the first grade tribute.
The tributes include lacquer, silk, silk, silk in baskets and bundles of cotton, as well as stones for making jade.
Take a boat from Luoshui to the Yellow River.
South of Huashan and between Heishui is Liangzhou.
Minshan and Banzhong Mountains have been able to be planted, Tuoshui and Difenshui have been dredged, Caishui and Mengshui have been pacified, and Heyi has been controlled.
The soil of this package is green and the bundles are sparse. The fields are of the seventh grade, and the tributes are of the eighth grade. There are also seventh and ninth grades mixed in.
The tributes include iron, silver, carvings, seals, chimes, bears, bears, foxes, raccoons, and woven skins.
Xiqing Mountain winds along the direction of the Huan River. From Diving, you can take a boat, cross the Mian River, arrive at the Weishui River, and cross the Weishui River to the Yellow River.
Between Heishui and Xihe is Yongzhou.
The weak water has flowed westward, and the Jing River has flowed into the Wei River.
After the lacquer water and Ju water flowed into the tears obediently, Feng water also flowed into the Wei water.
After Jingshan and Qishan were managed, Zhongnan, Dunwu and Niaoshu Mountain were all managed.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
三危既宅，三苗丕叙。
厥土黄壤。田上上，赋中下。
贡球、琳、琅玕。
浮于积石，至于龙门西河，会于渭汭。
织皮昆仑、析支、渠叟，西戎即叙。
道汧及岐，至于荆山，逾于河；壶口、雷首，至于大岳；厎柱、析城，至于王屋；太行、恒山，至于碣石，入于海。
西倾、朱圉、鸟鼠，至于太华；熊耳、外方、桐柏，至于倍尾。
道嶓冢，至于荆山；内方，至于大别；崏山之阳，至于衡山，过九江，至于敷浅原。
道弱水，至于合藜，余波入于流沙。
道黑水，至于三危，入于南海。
道河积石，至于龙门，南至于华阴，东至于厎柱，又东至于盟津，东过洛汭，至于大伾，北过降水，至于大陆，又北播为九河，同为逆河，入于海。
嶓冢道漾，东流为汉，又东为沧浪之水，过三澨，至于大别，南入于江，东汇泽为彭蠡，东为北江，入于海。
崏山道江，东别为沱，又东至于醴，过九江，至于东陵，江迤北会于汇，东为中江，入于海。
道沇水，东流为泲，入于河，轶为荥，东出于陶丘北，又东至于荷，又东北会于汶，又北东入于海。
道淮自桐柏，东会于泗、沂，东入于海。
道渭自鸟鼠同穴，东会于酆，又东至于泾，又东过漆、沮，入于河。
道洛自熊耳，东北会于涧、瀍，又东会于伊，又东北入于河。
九州逌同，四奥既宅，九山刊旅，九川涤原，九泽既陂，四海会同。
translation: 
The plains and hollows were worked up to the pig walls. Sanwei Mountain is now habitable, and Sanmiao has gained stability.
The soil here is yellow, the fields are of the first grade, and the tributes are of the sixth grade.
The tributes are Qiu, Lin and Langjian.
Take a boat from Jishi Mountain to Longmen and Xihe River, and go upstream from the north of the Wei River.
Kunshang, Xizhi, and Qusou all weaved furs, and all the tribes of Xirong became peaceful and obedient.
It opened up Yishan and Qishan, all the way to Jingshan, and crossed the Yellow River; it opened up Hukou and Leishou, all the way to Dayue; it opened up Dizhu and Xicheng, all the way to Wangwu; it opened up Taihang and Hengshan, all the way to Jieshi, and entered the Haihe River.
It opens to Xiqing, Zhuyu, and Wushu, all the way to Mount Taihua; it opens to Xiong'er, Waifang, and Tongbai, all the way to Bewei.
It dredged Baozhong Mountain to reach Jingshan; opened the inner side to reach Dabie Mountain; opened the south side of Qiaoshan to reach Hengshan, passed through Jiujiang, and reached Fuqianyuan.
The weak water is dredged to reach Heli Mountain, and the tributaries flow into the quicksand.
Dredge the black water, reach Sanwei Mountain, and enter the South China Sea.
The Yellow River is dredged from Jishi Mountain to Longmen Mountain, south to Huayin Mountain, bound to the bottom pillar, and then flows east to Mengjin. It passes eastward through the confluence of Luoshui River and the Yellow River, reaches Daren Mountain, passes through the precipitation to the north, reaches the mainland, and then branches to the north to form Jiuhe River, which merges to form a reverse river and flows into the sea.
From Panzhong, Yangshui is dredged, flowing eastward to form the Han River, and then eastward to become the Canglang River. It passes through Sanzi, reaches the Dabie Mountains, flows southward into the Yangtze River, merges eastward to form Pengli, and eastward forms the Beijiang River, which enters the sea.
The Yangtze River is dredged from Marriage Mountain, and flows eastward to the Tuojiang River, and then flows eastward to reach Lishui River, passes through Jiujiang, reaches Shuling, and then extends diagonally eastward to the north, where it joins the Huaihe River. Shu is called the Zhongjiang River and flows into the sea.
It diverts submerged water and flows eastward, which is called Boiling River. It enters the Yellow River and overflows to become Rongze River. It flows eastward from the north of Taoqiu, then eastward to Heze River, and then to the northeast to join Wenshui River, then to the north, and then turns to flow into the sea.
Starting from Tongbai Mountain, the Huaihe River is channeled eastward to merge with the Swimming River and Yishui River, and then flows eastward into the sea.
Starting from Wu Shutong Cave, the Wei River is channeled eastward to join the Feng River, then eastward to the Jingshui River, and then eastward through Qi and Ju before flowing into the Yellow River.
Starting from Xiong'er, the Luoshui River is channeled, heading northeast to join the Jianshui River and the Lu River, then eastward to join the Yishui River, and then northeastward into the Huanghui River.
Kyushu has been pacified, the land in all directions can be inhabited, the famous mountains in Kyushu have been cut with wood and road signs have been erected for navigation, the water sources of the nine rivers have been dredged, the nine lakes have been built with embankments, and the capital can be united within the four seas.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
六府孔修，庶土交正，厎慎财赋，咸则三壤，成赋中国。
锡土姓： 祗台德先，不距朕行。
五百里甸服：百里赋内总，二百里内铚，三百里内戛服，四百里粟，五百里米。
五百里侯服：百里采，二百里男国，三百里诸侯。
五百里绥服；三百里揆文教，二百里奋武卫。
五百里要服：三百里夷，二百里蔡。
五百里荒服：三百里蛮，二百里流。
东渐于海，西被于流沙，朔、南洎，声教讫于四海。
禹锡玄圭，告厥成功。
后受禅于虞，为夏后氏。
殷因于夏，亡所变改。
周既克殷，监于二代而损益之，定官分职，改禹徐、梁二州合之于雍、青，分冀州之地以为幽、并。
故《周官》有职方氏，掌天下之地，辩九州之国。
东南曰扬州：其山曰会稽，薮曰具区，川曰三江，浸曰五湖；其利金、锡、竹箭；民二男五女；畜宜鸟兽，谷宜稻。
正南曰荆州：其山曰衡，薮曰云梦，川曰江、汉，浸曰颍、湛；其利丹、银、齿、革；民一男二女；畜及谷宜，与扬州同。
translation: 
The six prefectures of water, fire, metal, wood, earth, and grain are all well governed. Taxes are levied on the land everywhere, and the amount of property taxes is carefully stipulated. Taxes are stipulated according to the upper, middle, and lower levels of the land.
Give land to the princes, and give them surnames along with them: The people I respect and support are those who take virtue as a prerequisite and do not disobey my measures.
The area five hundred miles away from the royal city is called Dianfu: the place one hundred miles away pays the grain with stalks, the place two hundred miles away pays the ear of the grain, the place three hundred miles away pays the grain with peas, the place four hundred miles away pays the grain with the husk, and the place five hundred miles away pays the rice.
The areas five hundred miles away from the Dianfu are called Marquisfu: the area closest to the Dianfu of a hundred miles is the place where ministers and officials are enfeoffed, the area within two hundred miles is the place where barons are enfeoffed, and the area three hundred miles away is the place where princes are enfeoffed.
The surrounding areas of five hundred miles each are Suifu: the place three hundred miles away is to inspect the emperor's politics and religion and implement it, and the place two hundred miles away is to defend the emperor with force.
Five hundred miles must be served: three hundred miles must implement civilian laws, and two hundred miles must abide by criminal laws.
Five Hundred Miles of Wilderness: If you have three hundred miles of land, you must use education to change your barbaric nature; if you have two hundred miles of land, let it flow.
It gradually reaches the sea to the east, covers the quicksand to the west, spreads to the north and south at the same time, and its prestige and teachings penetrate deep into the four seas.
Yao gave Dayu a beautiful black jade in recognition of his success in controlling floods.
Later, Dayu accepted the concession from Yu Shun and became the emperor, and was called the Xiahou clan.
The Shang Dynasty inherited the Xia Dynasty system without any changes.
After the Zhou Dynasty defeated the Yin Dynasty, it drew on the systems of the Yin and Zhou dynasties and added or subtracted them, determined official positions, and assigned responsibilities. Xuzhou and Liangzhou established by Xia Yu were merged into Yongzhou and Qingzhou respectively, and the area of ​​Jizhou was divided into Youzhou and Bingzhou.
Therefore, in the "Book of Rites of Zhou", there is an official named Fang, who is in charge of the land of the world and governs all the countries in Kyushu.
The southeastern part is called Yangzhou: its mountains are named Kuaiji, its large lakes are called Juqu, its big rivers are called Sanjiang, and the lakes that can divert canals to irrigate farmland are called Five Lakes. It is rich in gold, tin, and bamboo arrows. The male-female ratio of the people is two men and five women. It is suitable for raising birds and animals, and it is suitable for growing grains and rice.
Directly south is Jingzhou: the mountain is called Hengshan, the lake is called Yunmeng, the big rivers are the Yangtze River and the Han River, and the canals that can be diverted to irrigate farmland are called Yingshui and Zhanshui. This area is rich in elixirs, silver, teeth, and leather. The male-to-female ratio of the people is one male to two females. The animals suitable for livestock and the cereals grown are the same as those in Yangzhou.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
河南曰豫州：其山曰华，薮曰圃田，川曰荥、洛，浸曰波、溠；其利林、漆、丝枲；民二男三女；畜宜六扰，其谷宜五种。
正东曰青州：其山曰沂，薮曰孟诸，川曰淮、泗，浸曰沂、沭；其利蒲、鱼；民二男三女；其畜宜鸡、狗，谷宜稻、麦。
河东曰兖州：其山曰岱，薮曰泰野，其川曰河、泲，浸曰卢、濰；其利蒲、鱼；民二男三女；其畜宜六扰，谷宜四种。
正西曰雍州；其山曰岳，薮日弦蒲，川曰泾、汭，其浸曰渭，洛：其利玉、石；其民三男二女；畜宜牛、马，谷宜黍、稷。
东北曰幽州：其山曰医无闾，薮曰豯养，川曰河、泲，浸曰菑、时；其利鱼、盐；民一男三女；畜宜四扰，谷宜三种。
河内曰冀州：其山曰霍，薮曰扬纡，川曰漳，浸曰汾、潞；其利松、柏；民五男三女；畜宜牛、羊，谷宜黍、稷。
正北曰并州：其山曰恒山，薮曰昭余祁，川曰虖池、呕夷，浸曰涞、易；其利布帛；民二男三女；畜宜五扰，谷宜五种。
而保章氏掌天文，以星土辩九州之地，所封封域皆有分星，以视吉凶。
周爵五等，而土三等：公、侯百里，伯七十里，子、男五十里。
不满为附庸，盖千八百国。
translation: 
The south of the Yellow River is called Yuzhou: the mountains are called Huashan, the lakes are called Putian, the rivers are called Rongshui and Luoshui, and the irrigation canals are called Boshui and Nianshui. This area is rich in forests, lacquer, and silk. The male-to-female ratio of the people is two men and three women. It is suitable for raising horses, cattle, sheep, pigs, dogs, and chickens, and the cereals are suitable for growing millet, millet, bean sprouts, wheat, and rice.
The east side is called Qingzhou: the mountains are called Yishan, the lakes are called Mengzhu, the rivers are called Huai River and Swimming River, and the irrigation canals are called Yishui and Shu Rivers; this area is rich in cattails and fish; the male to female ratio of the people is two men to three women; this area is most suitable for raising dogs and dogs, and the cereals are suitable for growing rice and wheat.
The east side of the Yellow River is called Yanzhou: the mountain is called Daishan, the lake is called Taibi, the river is called Hehebo, and the irrigation canals are called Lushui and Weishui. It is rich in cattails and fish. The ratio of men to women here is two to three. It is suitable for raising horses, cattle, sheep, pigs, dogs, and chickens, and it is most suitable for growing millet, millet, rice, and wheat.
To the west is called Yongzhou: the mountain is called Wuyue Mountain, the big lake is called Xianpuze, the rivers are called Jingshui and Youshui, and the irrigation canals are called Weishui and Luoshui. This area is rich in jade and stone. The male to female ratio of the people is three men and two women. It is suitable for raising cattle and horses, and the cereals are suitable for planting millet and millet.
The northeast is called Youzhou: the mountains are called Yiwujian, the lakes are called Monkey Yang, the rivers are called Yellow River and Boishui, and the irrigation canals are called Miaoshui and Shishui. This area is rich in fish and salt. The male-to-female ratio of the people is one male to three female. It is suitable for raising horses, cattle, sheep, and pigs, and the cereals are suitable for growing millet, millet, and rice.
The area within the Yellow River is called Jizhou: the mountains are called Huoshan, the lakes are called Yangxu, the rivers are called Zhangshui, and the irrigation canals are called Fenshui and Lushui. Qianbao is rich in pines and cypresses. The male to female ratio of the people is five men and three women. It is suitable for raising cattle and sheep, and the cereals are suitable for growing millet and millet.
To the north is called Bingzhou: the mountain is called Hengshan, the lake is called Zhaolanchi, the rivers are called Huangyi and Nulou, and the irrigation canals are called Sucheng and Xiancheng. This area is rich in cloth and silk. The ratio of men to women is two men and three women. It is suitable for raising horses, cattle, sheep, dogs, and pigs, and the cereals are suitable for growing millet, millet, bean sprouts, wheat, and rice.
In the Zhou Dynasty, the Baozhang clan was in charge of the celestial phenomena, and the nine states were divided according to the location of the stars. The territories divided by the princes had corresponding stars, and the stars were observed to predict good and bad luck.
There were five levels of nobility in the Zhou Dynasty, but there were only three levels of land enfeoffment: duke and marquis with a hundred miles of land, count with seventy miles of land, and son and baron with fifty miles of land.
Those less than fifty miles away are small countries attached to the princes. There are about 1,800 small countries.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
而太昊、黄帝之后，唐、虞侯伯犹存，帝王图籍相踵而可知。
周室既衰，礼乐征伐自诸侯出，转相吞灭，数百年间，列国耗尽。
至春秋时，尚有数十国，五伯迭兴，总其盟会。
陵夷至于战国，天下分而为七，合从连衡，经数十年。
秦遂并兼四海。
以为周制微弱，终为诸侯所丧，故不立尺土之封，分天下为郡县，荡灭前圣之苗裔，靡有孓遗者矣。
汉兴，因秦制度，崇恩德，行简易，以抚海内。
至武帝攘却胡、越，开地斥境，南置交阯，北置朔方之州，兼徐、梁、幽、并夏、周之制，改雍曰凉，改梁曰益，凡十三部，置刺史。
先王之迹既远，地名又数改易，是以采获旧闻，考迹《诗》、《书》，推表山川，以缀《禹贡》、《周官》、《春秋》，下及战国、秦、汉焉。
京兆尹，故秦内史，高帝元年属塞国，二年更为渭南郡，九年罢，复为内史。
武帝建元六年分为右内史，太初元年更为京兆君。
元始二年，户十九万五千七百二，口六十八万二千四百六十八。
县十二：长安，高帝五年置。
惠帝元年初城，六年成。
户八万八百，口二十四万六千二百。
王莽曰常安。
新丰，骊山在南，故骊戎国。
秦曰骊邑。
高祖七年置。
船司空，莽曰船利。
蓝田，山出美玉，有虎候山祠，秦孝公置也。
华阴，故阴晋，秦惠文王五年更名宁秦，高帝八年更名华阴。
太华山在南，有祠，豫州山。
集灵宫，武帝起。莽曰华坛也。
郑，周宣王弟郑桓公邑。有铁官。
湖，有周天子祠二所。
translation: 
After Taiwu and Huangdi, marquises and counts still existed in Tang and Yushi, and the maps and household registrations of the emperors can be known one after another.
After the decline of the Zhou Dynasty, the ritual and music conquests were decided by the princes, and they were annexed and eliminated one by one. Within hundreds of years, all the princely states were wiped out.
By the Spring and Autumn Period, there were still dozens of countries, and five countries successively became hegemons and became alliance leaders.
Gradually during the Warring States Period, the world was divided into seven countries, which were unified and unified. After several decades.
The Qin Dynasty then annexed the four seas.
It was believed that the decline of the Zhou Dynasty lay in the enfeoffment of vassal states. Therefore, Qin did not establish feudal states with a foot of land, divided the world into counties and counties, and wiped out the descendants of the previous sages, leaving no one left.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, it followed the system of the stupid dynasty, respected kindness, and implemented simple and easy methods to appease the country.
By the time of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, the Hu and Yue people were repelled, the land was opened up, the territory was expanded, Jiaoxu Prefecture was established in the south, and Shuofang Prefecture was established in the north. Xuzhou, Luanye, and Youye were annexed, and the system was the same as that of the Xia and Zhou Dynasties.
The deeds of the previous kings were separated by a long time, and the place names changed several times. Therefore, we collected old rumors, examined the records in the "Book of Songs" and "Shangshu", and made inferences based on Shan! to connect the "Yu Gong", "Zhou Guan", and "Spring and Autumn", down to the Warring States, Qin, and Han Dynasties.
Jingzhaoyin was the place of internal history of the Qin Dynasty. It was transferred to the Sai Kingdom in the first year of Emperor Gaodi. It was changed to Weinan County in the second year of Emperor Gaodi. It was revoked and renamed to internal history in the ninth year of Emperor Gaodi.
In the sixth year of Jianyuan of Emperor Wu, it was divided into Youneishi, and in the first year of Taichu it was changed to Jingzhaoyin.
In the second year of Wushi, there were 195,702 households with 682,468 people.
It has twelve counties under its jurisdiction: Chang'an County, which was established in the fifth year of Emperor Gaodi's reign.
Construction of the city began in the first year of Emperor Hui's reign and was completed in the sixth year of Emperor Hui's reign.
There are 80,800 households and 246,200 people.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Chang'an.
Xinfeng County, Lishan Mountain is to the south of it, and it used to be the Lirong Kingdom.
The Qin Dynasty was called Liyi.
It was established in the seventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign.
Ship Sikong County, Wang Mang's name was Chuanli.
In Lantian County, the mountains produce beautiful jade, and there is the Huhou Mountain Temple, which was built during the reign of Duke Xiao of Qin.
Huayin County, formerly known as Yin Jin, was renamed Ning Qin in the fifth year of King Qin Huiwen, and was renamed Huayin in the eighth year of Emperor Gao.
Taihua Mountain is to the south of it and has a sacrificial temple. It is a mountain in Yuzhou.
Jiling Palace was built during the reign of Emperor Wu and was called Huatan during the reign of Wang Mang.
Zheng County is the town of Zheng Huan Gong, the younger brother of King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty. It has iron officials.
In Hu County, there are two temples dedicated to the emperor of the Zhou Dynasty.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
故曰胡，武帝建元年更名湖。
下邽，南陵，文帝七年置。
沂水出蓝田谷，北至霸陵入霸水。
霸水亦出蓝田谷，北入渭。
古曰兹水，秦穆公更名以章霸功。视子孙。
奉明，宣帝置也。
霸陵，故芷阳，文帝更名。
莽曰水章也。
杜陵。
故杜伯国，宣帝更名。
有周右将军杜主祠四所。
莽曰饶安也。
左冯翊，故秦内史，高帝元年属塞国，二年更名河上郡，九年罢，复为内史。
武帝建元六年分为左内史，太初元年更名左冯翊。
户二十三万五千一百一，口九十一万七千八百二十二。
县二十四：高陵，左辅都尉治。
莽曰千春。
栎阳，秦献公自雍徙。
莽曰师亭。
翟道，莽曰涣。
池阳，惠帝四年置。
嶻山在北。
夏阳，故少梁，秦惠文王十一年更名。
《禹贡》梁山在西北，龙门山在北。
有铁官。
莽曰冀亭。
衙，莽曰达昌。
粟邑，莽曰粟城，谷口，九嵏山在西。
有天齐公五床山、仙人、五帝祠四所。
莽曰谷喙。
莲勺，鄜，莽曰修令。
频阳。秦厉公置。
临晋，故大荔，秦获之，更名。
有河水祠。
芮乡，故芮国。
莽曰监晋。
重泉莽曰调泉。
郃阳，礻殳祤，景帝二年置。
武城，莽曰桓城。
沈阳，莽曰制昌。
褱德，《禹贡》北条荆山在南，下有强梁原。
洛水东南入渭，雍州浸。
莽曰德驩。
徵，莽曰泛爱。
云陵。昭帝置也。
万年。高帝置。
莽曰异赤。
长陵，高帝置。
translation: 
So it was called Lake. In the first year of Emperor Wu’s reign, it was renamed Lake.
Xiabang County and Nanling County were established in the seventh year of Emperor Wen's reign.
Yishui flows out from Lantian Valley and goes north to Baling and enters Ba River.
The Ba River also flows out from Lantian Valley and enters the Wei River northward.
In ancient times, it was called Zishui. However, Duke Mu of Qin changed its name to highlight his achievements in domination and to show off to his descendants.
Fengming County was established during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
Baling County was formerly Zhiyang and was renamed during Emperor Wen's reign.
When Wang Mang was in power, his name was Shuizhang.
Duling County.
It was the former Du Bo Kingdom and was renamed during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
There are four shrines to Lord Du, General of the Zhou Dynasty.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Rao An.
Zuo Fengyi was the place of internal history of the Qin Dynasty. It belonged to the Sai Kingdom in the first year of Emperor Gaodi. In the second year of Emperor Gaodi, it was renamed Heshang County. In the ninth year of Emperor Gaodi, it was revoked and renamed to internal history.
In the sixth year of Emperor Wu's reign, he was divided into Zuo Neishi, and in the first year of Taichu, he was renamed Zuo Fengyi.
There are 235,101 properties and 917,822 people.
It has 24 counties under its jurisdiction: Gaoling County, governed by Captain Zuo Fu.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Qianchun.
Luyang County, moved from Yongcheng during the reign of Duke Xian of Qin Dynasty.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shiting.
Zhaidao County was called Huan during the reign of Wang Mang.
Chiyang County was established in the fourth year of Emperor Hui's reign.
Caixue Mountain is in the north.
Xiayang County was the former Shaoliang County and was renamed in the 11th year of King Qin Huiwen's reign.
According to "Yu Gong", Liangshan Mountain is in the northwest and Longmen Mountain is in the north.
There are iron officials.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Jiting.
Yaxian County was called Dachang during the reign of Wang Mang.
Suyi County was called Sucheng during the reign of Wang Mang. Taniguchi County, Jiusou Mountain is in the west.
There are four temples: Tian Qigong, Wudoshan, Jiren, and the Five Emperors Temple.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Gu Bei.
Lianshao County and Yongxian County were called Xiuling during the reign of Wang Mang.
Pinyang County was established during the reign of Duke Li of Qin.
Linjin County was formerly Dali. The Qin Dynasty acquired it and changed its name.
There is a river temple.
Ruixiang is the former Rui country.
During Wang Mang's reign, he was called Jian Jin.
Chongquan County was called Tiaoquan during the reign of Wang Mang.
Heyang County and Touxu County were established in the second year of Emperor Jing's reign.
Wucheng County was called Huancheng during the reign of Wang Mang.
Shenyang County was called Zhichang during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Baode County, the Jingshan Mountain listed in "Yu Gong" is to the north and to the south, with Qiangliangyuan below.
The Luo River flows into the Wei River from the southeast and is the irrigation canal of Yongzhou.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was De Ji.
Zheng County was called Panai during Wang Mang's reign.
Yunling County was established during the reign of Emperor Zhao.
Wannian County was established during the reign of Emperor Gao.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Yichi.
Changling County was established during the reign of Emperor Gao.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
户五万五十七，口十七万九千四百六十九。
莽曰长平。
阳陵，故弋阳，景帝更名。
莽曰渭阳。
云阳。
有休屠、金人及径路神祠三所，越巫卯古襄阝祠三所。
右扶风，故秦内史，高帝元年属雍国，二年更为中地郡。
九年罢，复为内史。
武帝建元六年分为右内史，太初元年更名主爵都尉为右扶风。
户二十一万六千三百七十七，口八十三万六千七十，县二十一：渭城，故咸阳，高帝元年更名新城，七年罢，属长安。
武帝元鼎三年更名渭城。
有兰池宫。
莽曰京城。
槐里，周曰犬丘，懿王都之。
秦更名废丘。
高祖三年更名。
有黄山宫，孝惠二年起。
莽曰槐治。
鄠，古国，有扈谷亭。
扈，夏启所伐。
酆水出东南，又有潏水，皆北过上林苑入渭。
有萯阳宫，秦文王起。
盩厔，有长杨宫，有射熊馆，秦昭王起。
灵轵渠，武帝穿也。
斄，周后稷所封，郁夷，《诗》 周道郁夷 。
有汧水祠。
莽曰郁平。
美阳，《禹贡》岐山在西北。
中水乡，周文王所邑。
有高泉宫，秦宣太后起也。
郿，成国梁首受渭，东北至上林入蒙笼渠。
右辅都尉治。
雍，秦惠公都之。
有五畤，太昊、黄帝以下祠三百三所。
橐泉宫，孝公起。
祈年宫，惠公起。
棫阳宫，昭王起。
有铁官。
漆，水在县西。
有铁官。
莽曰漆治。
栒邑，有豳乡，《诗》豳国，公刘所都。
隃麋，有黄帝子祠。
莽曰扶亭。
陈仓，有上公、明星、黄帝孙、舜妻育冢祠。
有羽阳宫，秦武王起也。
杜阳，杜水南入渭。
《诗》曰 自杜 。莽曰通杜。
氵幵，吴山在西，古文以为氵幵山。
translation: 
There are 50,57 households with 179,469 people.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Changping.
Yangling County was formerly Yiyang and was renamed during the reign of Emperor Jing.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Weiyang.
Yunyang County.
There are three shrines of Xiutu, Jinren and Jinglu, and three shrines of Yuedi wizard Boguo.
Youfufeng is the internal history place of the Qin Dynasty. It belonged to the Yong Kingdom of Zhang Han in the first year of Emperor Gaodi, and was changed to Zhongdi County in the second year of Emperor Gaodi.
In the ninth year of Emperor Gaodi's reign, it was revoked and renamed Neishi.
In the sixth year of Emperor Wu's founding, he was divided into You Neishi, and in the first year of Taichu, the Lord Commander was renamed You Fufeng.
There are 216,377 households with 836,070 people. It has jurisdiction over 21 counties: Weicheng County was formerly Xianyang. It was renamed Xincheng in the first year of Emperor Gao. In the seventh year of Emperor Gao, it was revoked and placed under Chang'an.
In the third year of Emperor Wu Yuanding's reign, the city was renamed Weicheng.
There is Lanchi Palace.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Jingcheng.
Huaili County was called Quanqiu in Zhou Dynasty, and King Yi made his capital here.
In the Qin Dynasty, it was renamed Feiqiu.
In the third year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, the name was changed again.
There is Huangshan Palace, which was built in the second year of Xiaohui.
During Wang Mang's reign, he was called Huai Zhi.
E County is an ancient country. There is Hugu Pavilion.
Hu, Xia Qi once attacked.
The Feng River flows out from the southeast, and the Huo River flows into the Wei River through Shanglinyuan in the north.
Youyang Palace was built during the reign of King Wen of Qin.
In Dianwu County, there is Changyang Palace and Shexiong Pavilion, which were built during Qin Zhao's time.
Lingruan Canal was dug during the reign of Emperor Wu.
Yaxian County was enfeoffed by Houji during the Zhou Dynasty. In Yuyi County, there is "Zhou Dao Yuyi" in "Poetry".
There is Yishui Temple.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Yuhu County.
Meiyang County, the Qishan Mountain mentioned in "Yu Gong" is in the northwest of it.
Zhongshui Township is the place where the king of Zhou built his city.
There is Gaoquan Palace, built by Empress Dowager Xuan of Qin.
In counties and counties, Chengguo Canal first receives water from the Wei River, and flows into the Menglong Canal from the northeast to Shanglin.
It is under the management of Lieutenant Youfu.
Yong County, Qin Hui Gong established his capital here.
There are five pillars, and there are 303 temples under Taihao and Huangdi.
Luoquan Palace was built by Duke Xiao.
The Palace of Prayer for Good Harvests was built by Duke Hui.
Zhuyang Palace was built by King Zhao.
There are iron officials.
In Qixian County, the water flows to the west of the county.
There are iron officials.
During Wang Mang's reign, he was called Qi Zhi.
In Gouyi County, there is Bin Township, which is the Bin Kingdom mentioned in "Poetry", and Gong Liu established his capital here.
In Yumi County, there is the Huangdizi Temple.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Futing.
In Chencang County, there are tombs and temples for Shang Gong, Mingxing, Huangdi's grandson, and Shun's wife.
There is Yuyang Palace, which was built during the reign of King Wu of Qin.
In Duyang County, the Du River flows into the Wei River from the south.
"Poetry" says that Zidu was called Tongdu during Wang Mang's time.
In Pi County, Wushan is to the west, and ancient written records consider it to be Yishan.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
雍州山。
北有蒲谷乡弦中谷，雍州弦蒲薮。
汧水出西北，入渭。
芮水出西北，东入泾。
《诗》芮阝尻，雍州川也。
好畤，垝山在东。
有梁山宫，秦始皇起。
莽曰好邑。
虢，有黄帝子、周文武祠。
虢宫，秦宣太后起也。
安陵，惠帝置。
莽曰嘉平。
茂陵，武帝置。
户六万一千八十七，口二十七万七千二百七十七。
莽曰宣城。
平陵。昭帝置。
莽曰广利。
武功，太壹山，古文以为终南。
垂山，古文以为敦物。
皆在县东。
斜水出衙领山北，至眉阝入渭。
褒水亦出衙领，至南郑入沔。
有垂山、斜水，褒水祠三所。
莽曰新光。
弘农郡，武帝元鼎四年置。
莽曰右队。
户十一万八千九十一，口四十七万五千九百五十四。
有铁官，在黾池。
县十一：弘农，故秦函谷关。
衙山领下谷，爥水所出，北入河。
卢氏，熊耳山在东。伊水出，东北入雒，过郡一，行四百五十里。又有育水，南至顺阳入沔。
又有洱水，东南至鲁阳，亦入沔。
皆过郡二，行六百里。
莽曰昌富。
陕，故虢国。
有焦城，故焦国。
北虢在大阳，东虢在荥阳，西虢在雍州。
莽曰黄眉。
宜阳，在黾池有铁官也。
黾池，高帝八年复黾池中乡民。
景帝中二年初城，徙万家为县。
穀水出穀阳谷，东北至穀城入雒。
莽曰陕亭。
丹水，水出上雒冢领山，东至析入钧。
密阳乡，故商密也。
新安，《禹贡》涧水在东，南入雒。
商，秦相卫鞅邑也。
析，黄水出黄谷，鞠水出析谷，俱东至郦入湍水。
translation: 
Yongzhou Mountain.
To the north are Xianzhong Valley in Pugu Township and Xianpu Sou in Yongzhou.
The Yishui River flows out from the northwest and flows into the Wei River.
The Ruishui River flows out from the northwest and flows into the Jingshui River in the east.
It is Ruimian mentioned in the "Poetry", and it is the river in Yongzhou.
In Hershey County, Kneeling Mountain is to the east.
There is Liangshan Palace, which was built during the reign of Qin Shihuang.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Haoyi.
In Guo County, there are shrines to the Yellow Emperor's sons, King Wen of Zhou and King Wu of Zhou.
Guoxuan was built by the Queen Mother Qin Xuan.
Anling County, set during the summer solstice.
When they fight each other, they call them Jiaping.
Maoling County was established during the reign of Emperor Wu.
There are sixty-one thousand and eighty-seven households, twenty daggers and ten thousand daggers are penetrated every day.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xuancheng.
Pingling turtle, La Shi setting.
When it is in its prime, it is called 徃.
Wugong County. It is Si Mountain, and ancient written records consider it to be Longzhi Mountain.
Chuidan is regarded as Dunwu in ancient Chinese records.
They are all located in the county area.
The sloping water flows out from the north of Yaling Mountain and flows back to Cong at Yun.
Yi Cong also came out. If you get it, the salt will flow into the bush.
There are three temples: Chuishan, Xieshui and Baoshui.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xinguang.
Hongnong County was established in the fourth year of Emperor Wu's reign.
Wang Mang changed his name to Right Team.
There are 118,091 households with a population of 475,954.
There is an iron official in Xingchi.
It has eleven counties under its jurisdiction: Hongnong County, which was the fish check board of Tongzhou in the past.
There is a valley below the Yashan collar. Huancheng flows out from this Xiang and flows northward into the Yellow River.
In Lushi County, Xiong'er Mountain is in front of it. The Yishui River flows out from here, enters the Luoshui River in the northeast, passes through a county, and travels 450 miles: there is also the Yushui River, which flows south to Shunyang and flows into the Mianshui River.
There is also the Er River, which flows southeast to Luyang and also flows into the Mian River.
They all passed through two counties and traveled six hundred miles.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Changfu.
Shaanxian County was the former Guo State.
There is Jiaoxu, which was the former Yabao.
Wang Yao is in Zuomo, Sailan is in Tomb Castle, and Xilan is in Yu maggot.
Wang Ling was called Dong Dan.
In Yiyang County, there is an iron official in Youyou.
In Kenchi County, the people of Zuichizhong Township were restored in the eighth year of Emperor Gao's reign.
In the second year of Emperor Jing's reign, he began to build the city and moved tens of thousands of people here to form a county.
The Gushui flows out of the Guyang Valley and goes northeast to Gucheng and enters the Luoshui River.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shaanting.
In Danshui County, the water flows out from Shangyinghuzhucan and flows eastward to Yumi.
Honey Phoenix Sculpture is a former business secret.
In Xin'an County, the stream on "Yugong" is in the east and flows into Luoshui in the south.
Shang County is the town of Wei Yang, the Prime Minister of the Qin State.
In Xi County, the Yellow River flows out of Huanggu, and the Ju River flows out of Xigu, and they all flow eastward to Li into Turbulent Water.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
莽曰君亭。
陆浑，春秋迁陆浑戎于此。
有关。
上雒。
《禹贡》雒水出冢领山，东北至巩入河，过郡二，行千七十里，豫州川。
又有甲水，出秦领山，东南至钖入沔，过郡三，行五百七十里。
熊耳、获舆山在东北。
河东郡，秦置。
莽曰兆阳。
有根仓、湿仓。
户二十三万六千八百九十六，口九十六万二千九百一十二。
县二十四：安邑，巫咸山在南，盐池在西南。
魏绛自魏徙此，至惠王徙大梁。
有铁官、盐官。
莽曰河东。
大阳，吴山在西，上有吴城，周武王封太伯后于此，是为虞公，为晋所灭。
有天子庙。
莽曰勤田。
猗氏，解，蒲反，有尧山、首山祠。
雷首山在南。
故曰蒲，秦更名。
莽曰蒲城。
河北，《诗》魏国，晋献公灭之，以封大夫毕万，曾孙绛徙安邑也。
左邑，莽曰兆亭。
汾阴，介山在南。
闻喜，故曲沃。
晋武公自晋阳徙此。
武帝元鼎六年行过，更名。
濩泽，《禹贡》析城山在西南。
端氏，临汾，垣，《禹贡》王屋山在东北，沇水所出，东南至武德入河，轶出荥阳北地中，又东至琅槐入海，过郡九，行千八百四十里。
皮氏，耿乡，故耿国，晋献公灭之，以赐大夫赵夙。
后十世献侯徙中牟。
有铁官，莽曰延平。
长修，平阳，韩武子玄孙贞子居此。
有铁官。
莽曰香平。
襄陵。有班氏乡亭。
莽曰幹昌。
彘，霍大山在东，冀州山，周厉王所奔。
莽曰黄城。
杨，莽曰有年亭。
北屈，《禹贡》壶口山在东南。
莽曰朕北。
蒲子，绛，晋武公自曲沃徙此。
有铁官。
狐讘，骐。
侯国。
太原郡，秦置。
有盐官，在晋阳。
translation: 
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Junting.
In Luhun County, Lu Hunrong was moved to Qianbao in the Spring and Autumn Period.
related.
Shangluo County.
The Luoshui River in "Yu Gong" flows out from Zhongling Mountain, flows into the Yellow River from the northeast to Gong, passes through two counties, and travels 1,070 miles to the Yuzhou River.
There is also Wei Zhen, which flows out from Qinling Mountain, goes southeast to Mandi and flows into Maicheng. It passes through three counties and travels 570 miles.
Xiong'er Huoyu Mountain is in the northeast.
In Dongshu County, the lamp was first placed.
At that time, it was renamed Laos.
There are root warehouses and wet warehouses.
There are 236,896 households with 162,912 people.
It governs twenty-four counties: Anyi County, with Wu Shengliang in the south and Yanyin in the southwest.
Padjam migrated here from Wei Dynasty, and moved to Daliang during the reign of King Gu.
There are iron officials and salt officials.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Hedong.
On the Dayang wall, the star industry is on the B side, and there is Yuyuan on it. After Gentu was granted the title of Zuo Bo, he lived in this Xiang. This area was called Yu Gong, and he was destroyed by the Jin Dynasty.
There is the Tianzi Temple.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Qin Tian.
Yishi County, Jie County, and Pufan County have Yaoshan and Shoushan Temples.
Lei Shou Mountain is in the south.
So it was called Pu, and it was renamed during the Qin Dynasty.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Pucheng.
Hebei County is the Wei Kingdom in the "Poetry". Duke Xian of Jin subtracted it and used it to enfeoff the official Bi Wan. His great-grandson Wei Jiang moved to Anyi.
Zuoyi County, Wang Lingshi's name is Danhuang.
Fenyin County, the company is in the south.
Yaoju is the former Dida.
Zhidaogong moved from Zhukui to Baogao.
In the sixth year of Genshi Gendie's reign, he passed by this place and changed his name.
Yize County, Xicheng Mountain in "Yu Gong" is in the southwest.
Duan Di day, falling back, Yuan Ao, Wang Wudan in "Yu Gong" is in the northeast, Biancong flows out from here, and goes southeast! The woman flows into Dong Hui, overflows into the north of Tomb Fort, and then flows east to Langhuai into the sea. It passes through nine counties and has a journey of 1,840 miles.
Pishi County and Geng Township were the former Geng Kingdom. Duke Xian of Jin destroyed it and used it to grant the official Tasu.
After ten generations, he moved to Zhongmou when he was the Marquis of Xian.
There are iron officials. During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Yanping.
Changxiu County, Pingyang County, Han Wuzi's great-great-grandson Zhenzi lived here.
There are iron officials.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Xiangping.
In Xiangling County, there is Banshi Township Pavilion.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Qianchang.
In She County, Huo Dashan is to the east, and Jizhou Mountain is where King Zhou Li fled.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Huangcheng.
Yang County was called Younian Pavilion during the reign of Wang Mang.
Beiqu County, Hukou Mountain in "Yu Gong" is in the southeast.
When Wang Mang was in power, he called me Bei.
Puzi County and Jiangxian County, Jin Wugong moved here from Quwo.
There is an iron palace.
Hushe County, Qixian County.
It is a Hou state.
Taiyuan County was first established by the Qin State.
There is Yan Guan in Jinyang.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
属并州。
户十六万九千八百六十三，口六十八万四百八十八。
有家马官。
县二十一：晋阳，故《诗》唐国，周成王灭唐，封弟叔虞。龙山在西北。
有盐官。
晋水所出，东入汾。
葰人，界休，莽曰界美。
榆次，涂水乡，晋大夫知徐吾邑。
梗阳乡，魏戊邑。
莽曰大原亭。
中都，于离，莽曰于合。
兹氏，莽曰兹同。
狼孟，莽曰狼调。
邬，九泽在北，是为昭馀祁，并州薮。
晋大夫司马弥牟邑。
盂，晋大夫孟丙邑。
平陶，莽曰多穰。
汾阳，北山，汾水所出，西南至汾阴入河，过郡二，行千三百四十里，冀州浸。
京陵，莽曰致城。
阳曲，大陵，有铁官。
虑虒，阳邑，莽曰繁穰。
广武。句注、贾屋山在北。
都尉治。莽曰信桓。
上党郡，秦置，属并州。
有上党关、壶口关、石研关，天井关。
户七万三千七百九十八，口三十三万七千七百六十六。
县十四：长子，周史辛甲所封。
鹿谷山，浊漳水所出，东至邺入清漳。
屯留，桑钦言 绛水出西南，东入海 。
余吾，铜鞮，有上虒亭，下虒聚。
沾，大黾谷，清漳水所出，东北至邑成入大河，过郡五，行千六百八十里，冀州川。
涅氏，涅水也。
襄垣，莽曰上党亭。
壶关，有羊肠阪。
沾水东至朝歌入淇。
泫氏，杨谷，绝水所出，南至野王入沁。
高都，莞谷，丹水所出，东南入泫水。
有天井关。
潞，故潞子国。
陭氏，阳阿，穀远。
羊头山世靡谷，沁水所出，东南至荥阳入河，过郡三，行九百七十里。莽曰穀近。
河内郡，高帝元年为殷国，二年更名。
translation: 
Belongs to the Bingzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 169,863 households and 680,488 people.
There is a horse official.
It has jurisdiction over 21 counties: Jinyang County, which was called Tang State in the previous "Poetry". Zhou Chengtu destroyed the Tang State and enfeoffed his younger brother Shuyu in Qianbao. Longshan is in the northwest.
There is a salt officer.
Jinshui flows out from Qianbao and flows eastward into Fenshui.
Shuren County, Jiexiu County, was called Jiemei during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Yuci County, in Tushui Township, the Jin Dynasty official knew Xu Wu's town.
Gengyang Township, Wei Wu's town.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Dayuan Pavilion.
Zhongdu County, Yuli County, was called Yuhe during the reign of Wang Mang.
Zishi County was called Zitong during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Langmeng County, it was called Langdiao during Wang Mang's reign.
Wu County, Jiuze is to the north of it, and it is surrounded by the lakes of Zhaoyuqi and Bingzhou.
The town of Jin Dynasty official Sima Mimo.
Yu County, the town of Meng Bing, a doctor of Jin Dynasty.
Pingtao County was called Duocheng during Wang Mang's reign.
Fenyang County has Beishan. Fenshui flows out from Oixiang and flows southwest to Fenyin into the Yellow River. It passes through two counties and travels 1,340 miles. It is the irrigation canal of Jizhou.
Jingling County was called Zhicheng during the reign of Wang Mang.
There are iron officials in Yangqu County and Daling County.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Daning. Yuan Ping County, Qi County, the town of Jia Xin, the official of the Jin Dynasty, Wang Mang called Shi.
In Shangai County, there is Mianman Water, which flows eastward to Puwu and flows into Mochi Water.
Luzhi County, Yangyi County, was called Fanxing during the reign of Wang Mang.
Shangdang County was established at the beginning of Qin Dynasty and belonged to Bingzhou.
There are Shangdang Pass and Hukou Pass. Shiyan Pass and Tianjing Pass.
There are 73,798 households and 337,766 people.
It has fourteen counties under its jurisdiction: Changzi County, a place sealed by Zhou Shi Xinjia.
There is Lugu Mountain, from which the drowning water flows out. It flows eastward to Ye and flows into Qingzhang.
In Tunliu County, Sanqin said that Jiangshui flows out from the southwest and flows eastward into the sea.
In Yuwu County and Tongqian County, there are Shangyan Pavilion and Xiawu Ju.
In Zhan County, there is Dazui Valley. The Qingzhang River flows out from here and flows northeast to Yicheng into the Yellow River. It passes through five counties and travels 1,680 miles. There is Jizhou River.
Nieshi County, Nirvana water flows out from here.
In Xiangyuan County, it was called Shangdang Pavilion during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Huguan County, there is a sheep intestine version.
The water flows eastward to Chaoge and flows into Qishui.
In Xuushi County, there is Yanggu. Jueshui flows out from here and flows south to Biwang into Qin.
In Gaodu County, there is Wan Valley, from which Danshui flows out and flows into Xunshui to the southeast.
There is a patio gate.
Lu County is the former Luzi Kingdom.
Sui's County, Yang'a County, and Guyuan County.
There is Shimi Valley in Yangtou Mountain. The Qinshui River flows out from here and flows southeast to Rongyang and flows into the Yellow River. It passes through three counties and travels 970 miles. When Wang Mang called it, it was near the valley.
Hanoi County was called Yin State in the first year of Emperor Gaodi, and was changed to a county in the second year of Emperor Gaodi.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
莽曰后队，属司隶。
户二十四万一千二百四十六，口百六万七千九十七。
县十八：怀，有工官。
莽曰河内。
汲，武德，波，山阳，东太行山在西北。
河阳，莽曰河亭。
州，共，故国。
北山，淇水所出，东至黎阳入河。
平皋，朝歌，纣所都。
周武王弟康叔所封，更名卫。
莽曰雅歌。
脩武，温，故国，已姓，苏忿生所封也。
野王，太行山在西北。
卫元君为秦所夺，自濮阳徙此。
莽曰平野。
获嘉，故汲之新中乡，武帝行过更名也。
轵，沁水，隆虑，国水东北至信成入张甲河，过郡三，行千八百四十里。
有铁官。
荡阴。
荡水东至内黄泽。
西山，羑水所出，亦至内黄入荡。
有羑里城，西伯所拘也。
河南郡，故秦三川郡，高帝更名。
雒阳户五万二千八百三十九。
莽曰保忠信乡，属司隶也。
户二十七万六千四百四十四，口一百七十四万二百七十九。
有铁官、工官。
敖仓在荥阳。
县二十二：雒阳，周公迁殷民，是为成周。
《春秋》昭公三十二年，晋合诸侯于狄泉，以其地大成周之城，居敬王。
莽曰宜阳。
荥阳，卞水、冯池皆在西南。
有狼汤渠，首受泲，东南至陈入颍，过郡四，行七百八十里。
偃师，尸乡，殷汤所都。
莽曰师成。
京，平阴，中牟，圃田泽在西，豫州薮。
有管叔邑，赵献侯自耿徙此。
平，莽曰治平。
阳武，有博浪沙。
莽曰阳桓。
河南，故郏鄏地。
周武王迁九鼎，周公致太平，营以为都，是为王城，至平王居之。
缑氏，刘聚，周大夫刘子邑。
有延寿城仙人祠。
莽曰中亭。
卷，原武，莽曰原桓。
巩，东周所居。
translation: 
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was renamed Houdu Xiaoweibu and belonged to the Sili.
There are 241,246 households and 1,067,097 people.
It has eighteen counties under its jurisdiction: Huai County, with workers and officials.
It was renamed Hanoi during Wang Mang's reign.
Ji County, Wude County, Bo County, Shanyang County, and Shu Taihang Mountain in the northwest.
Heyang County was called Heting during the reign of Wang Mang.
Zhouxian, Gongxian, is the old country.
There is Beishan, from which Qishui flows out, flowing eastward to Liyang and flowing into the Yellow River.
Pinggao County and Chaoge County are where King Zhou established his capital.
The fiefdom assigned to Uncle Kang, the younger brother of King Wu of Zhou, was renamed Wei.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Song of Songs.
Xiuwu County and Wenxian County were in the old country, and they were all surnamed Ji. They were the fiefdoms of Su Angrisheng.
Biwang County, Taihang Mountain is in the northwest.
Wei Yuanjun was captured by the Qin State and moved here from Puyang.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Pingbi.
Huojia County was the former Xinzhong Township of Jidi. It was renamed when Emperor Wu passed by.
From Zhi County, Qinshui County, and Longlu County, the national water flows northeast to Xincheng and flows into the Zhangjia River, passing through three counties and covering a distance of 1,840 miles.
There are iron officials.
Dangyin County.
Swing the water eastward to Neihuang Ze.
The water flows out from the Western Mountains and flows into the Neihuang River.
There is Chori City, where Xibo was detained.
Henan County, the former county of Qin State, was renamed to its present name during the reign of Emperor Gao.
There are 52,839 households in Luoyang.
At the time of Wang Mang, it was called Baozhongxin Township and belonged to the Sili Xiaowei Department.
There are 276,444 households with 1,740,279 people.
There are iron officers and work officers.
Aocang is in Rongyang.
It has jurisdiction over twenty-two counties: Luoyang County. Duke Zhou moved the people of Yin State, so it was called Zhou.
"Spring and Autumn" records that in the 32nd year of Zhaogong, Jin gathered the princes at Diquan. Because its area was larger than that of Chengzhou City, King Jing was allowed to live there.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Yiyang.
In the Rongyang Storm System, Bian Shui and Feng Chi are both in the southwest.
There is Langtang Canal, which first receives boiling water and flows southeast to Chenliu Yingshui, passing through four counties and covering a distance of 780 miles.
In Yanshi County, there is Shixiang, where Yin Tang established its capital.
When Wang Mang was in power, he called Shi Cheng.
Jing County, Huyin County, Zhongmu County, and Putianze are in the west, which is the lake of Yuzhou.
In Uncle Jian's town, Marquis Xian of Zhao moved here from Geng.
Ping County was renamed Zhiping during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Yangwu County, there is Bolangsha.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Yang Huan.
Henan County is the former suburbs and lowland.
King Wu of Zhou moved Jiuding, and Duke Zhou ushered in peace. He built it as the capital and became the royal city. King Ping lived here.
Fengshi County, Liuju, is the town of Liu Zi, a doctor of Zhou Dynasty.
There is the Yanshou City Immortal Temple.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Zhongting.
Juan County, formerly Wu County, was called Yuan Huan during the reign of Wang Mang.
Gong County, where the Eastern Zhou Dynasty lived.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
穀成，《禹贡》瀍水出替亭北，东南入雒。
故市，密，故国，有大騩山，潠水所出，南至临颍入颍。
新成，惠帝四年置。
蛮中，故戎蛮子国。
开封，逢池在东北，或曰宋之逢泽也。
成皋，故虎牢。
或曰制。
苑陵，莽曰左亭。
梁，狐聚，秦灭西周徙其君于此。
阳人聚，秦灭东周徙其君于此。
新郑。
《诗》郑国，郑桓公之子武公所国，后为韩所灭，韩自平阳徙都之。
东郡，秦置。莽曰治亭。
属兖州。
户四十万一千二百九十七，口百六十五万九千二十八。
县二十二：濮阳，卫成公自楚丘徙此。
故帝丘，颛顼虚。
莽曰治亭。
观，莽曰观治。
聊城，顿丘，莽曰顺丘。
发干，莽曰戢楯。
范，莽曰建睦。
茬平，莽曰功崇。
东武阳，禹治漯水，东北至千乘入海，过郡三，行千二十里。
莽曰武昌。
博平，莽曰加睦。
黎，莽曰黎治。
清，莽曰清治。
东阿，都尉治。
离狐，莽曰瑞狐。
临邑，有泲庙。
莽曰穀城亭。
利苗，须昌，故须句国，大昊后，风姓。
寿良，蚩尤祠在西北泲上。
有朐城。
乐昌，阳平，白马，南燕，南燕国，姞姓，黄帝后。
廪丘。
陈留郡，武帝元狩元年置。
属兖州。
户二十九万六千二百八十四，口一百五十万九千五十。
县十七：陈留，鲁渠水首受狼汤渠，东至阳夏，入涡渠。
小黄，成安，宁陵，莽曰康善。
雍丘，故杞国也，周武王封禹后东楼公。
先春秋时徙鲁东北，二十一世简公为楚所灭。
酸枣，东昏，莽曰东明。
襄邑，有服官，莽曰襄平。
外黄，都尉治。
封丘，濮渠水首受泲，东北至都关，入羊里水，过郡三，行六百三十里，长罗，侯国。
莽曰惠泽。
尉氏，傿，莽曰顺通。
长垣，莽曰长固。
平丘，济阳，莽曰济前。
浚仪。
translation: 
In Gucheng County, the Lu River in "Yu Gong" flows out from the north of Yingting and flows into the Luo River in the southeast.
Therefore, cities and counties, Mi County, are the old countries. There is Daxiao Mountain, from which the Tong River flows out, and flows southward to Linying and flows into the Ying River.
Xincheng County was established in the fourth year of Emperor Hui's reign.
Manzhong is the former Rongman kingdom.
In Kaifeng County, Fengchi is in the northeast. Some say it is Fengze in the Song Dynasty.
Chenggao County was the former Hulao.
Also called system.
Yuanling County was called Zuoting during Wang Mang's reign.
In Liang County, there is a gathering of Sihu. After the Qin Dynasty destroyed the Western Zhou Dynasty, its monarch moved here.
The people of Yang gathered together, and after Qin destroyed the Eastern Zhou Dynasty, it moved its monarch here.
Xinzheng County.
The Zheng State in "Poetry" was a country founded by Zheng Huan Gong's son Wu Gong. It was later destroyed by South Korea, which moved its capital from Pingyang to this place.
Dongjun was established at the beginning of the Qin Dynasty and was renamed Zhiting during the reign of Wang Mang.
Belongs to the Yanzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 41,297 households and 1,659,028 people.
It has jurisdiction over twenty-two counties: Puyang County, where Duke Cheng of Wei moved from Chuqiu to Xiang.
It was the former Emperor's Hill, which became ruins during the reign of Zhuanxu.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Zhiting.
Guan County was called Guanzhi during the reign of Wang Mang.
Liaocheng County, Dunqiu County, was called Shunqiu during the reign of Wang Mang.
Faqian County was called Ji Xun during the reign of Wang Mang.
Fan County was called Jianmu during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Ping County, Wang Mang's name was Gong Chong.
In the east of Wuyang County, Dayu regulated the Luo River and made it flow northeast to Qiancheng into the sea, passing through three counties and traveling a thousand and twenty miles.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Wuchang.
Boping County was called Jiamu during the reign of Wang Mang.
Li County was called Li Zhi during the reign of Wang Mang.
Qing County was called Qingzhi during the reign of Wang Mang.
Shua County is governed by the captain.
Lihu County is called Ruihu during the Mang period.
In Linyi County, there is a Fu Temple.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Gucheng Pavilion.
Limiao County and Xuchang County were the former Xuju Kingdom. The descendants of Dahao all had the surname Feng.
In Shouliang County, Chiyou Temple is located on Feishang in the northwest.
There is Qucheng.
Lechang County, Yangping County, Baima County, Nanyan County, and Nanyan Kingdom all have the surname Hao, descendants of the Yellow Emperor.
Linqiu County.
Chenliu County was established in the first year of Yuanshou by Emperor Wu.
Belongs to the Yanzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 296,284 households with 1.59 million and 50 people.
It governs seventeen counties: Chenliu County. Luqu water first receives water from Langtang Canal, flows eastward to Yangxia, and flows into Wocan.
Xiaohuang County, Cheng'an County, Ningling County were called Kangshan during Wang Mang's reign.
Yongqiu County was the former Qi Kingdom. King Wu of Zhou granted it to Donglou Gong, a descendant of Dayu.
It first moved to the northeast of Lu State in the Spring and Autumn Period, and was reduced by Chu State in the 21st year of Duke Jian.
Suanzao County, Shuhun County, was called Shuming during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Xiangyi County, there are officials. When Wang Mang was in power, his name was Xiangping.
Waihuang County is governed by the Duwei.
In Fengqiu County, the Puqu water first receives water from Jishui, goes northeast to Duguan, enters Yanglishui, passes through three counties, and travels 630 miles. Changluo County is a vassal state.
When Wang Mang was in power, his name was Huize.
Weishi County, Ruxian County, was called Shuntong during the reign of Wang Mang.
Changyuan County was called Changgu during the reign of Wang Mang.
Pingqiu County, Jiyang County, was called Jiqian during the reign of Wang Mang.
Junyi County.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
故大梁。
魏惠王自安邑徙此。
睢水首受狼汤水，东至取虑入泗，过郡四，行千三百六十里。
颍川郡，秦置。
高帝五年为韩国，六年复故。
莽曰左队。
阳翟有工官。
属豫州。
户四十三万二千四百九十一，口二百二十一万九百七十三。
县二十：阳翟，夏禹国。
周末，韩景侯自新郑徙此。
户四万一千六百五十，口十万九千。
莽曰颍川。
昆阳，颍阳，定陵，有东不羹。
莽曰定城。
长社，新汲，襄城，有西不羹。
莽曰相城。
郾，郏，舞阳，颍阴，崇高，武帝置，以奉太室山，是为中岳。
有太室、少室山庙。
古文以崇高为外方山也。
许，故国，姜姓，四岳后，太叔所封，二十四世为楚所灭。
傿陵，户四万九千一百一，口二十六万一千四百一十八。
莽曰左亭。
临颍，莽曰监颍。
父城，应乡，故国，周武王弟所封。
成安，侯国也。
周承休，侯国，元帝置，元始二年更名郑公。
莽曰嘉美。
阳城，阳城山，洧水所出，东南至长平入颍，过郡三，行五百里。
阳乾山，颍水所出，东至下蔡入淮，过郡三，行千五百里，荆州浸。
有铁官。
纶氏。
汝南郡，高帝置，莽曰汝汾。
分为赏都尉。
属豫州。
户四十六万一千五百八十七，口二百五十九万六千一百四十八。
县三十七：平舆，阳安，阳城，侯国。
莽曰新安。
氵隐强，富波，女阳，鮦阳，吴房，安成，侯国。
莽曰至成。
南顿，故顿子国，姬姓。
朗陵，细阳，莽曰乐庆。
宜春，侯国。莽曰宣孱。
女阴，故胡国。
都尉治。
莽曰汝坟。
新蔡，蔡平侯自蔡徙此，后二世徙下蔡。
莽曰新迁。
新息，莽曰新德。
濯阳，期思，慎阳，慎，莽曰慎治。
translation: 
It's the former beam.
King Hui of Wei moved from Anyi to Baogao.
Suishui first receives water from Langtang River, flows eastward to Jili and flows into Swimming River, passing through four counties and covering a distance of 1,360 miles.
Yingchuan County was established at the beginning of Qin Dynasty.
In the fifth year of Emperor Gao's reign, it was called Korea, and the original name was restored the following year.
When Wang Mang was in power, he was called Zuo Dui.
There are workers in Yangzhai.
Belongs to the Yuzhou Provincial History Department.
There are 432,491 households and 2,210,973 people.
It has jurisdiction over twenty counties: Yangzhai County, which is a vassal state of Xia Yu.
In the late Zhou Dynasty, Han Jinghou moved here from Xinzheng.
There are 41,650 households and 109,000 people.
When Wang Mang was in power, his name was Yingchuan.
Kunyang County, Yingyang County, and Dingling County are all in trouble.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Dingcheng.
Changshe County, Xinji County, Xiangcheng County, there are Xibugen.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xiangcheng.
Lin County, Jiaxian County, Wuyang County, Yingyin County, and Mugao County were established during the reign of Emperor Wu to worship Mount Taishi, creating Zhongyue.
There are Taishi and Shaoshi mountain temples.
Ancient written records believe that the sublime is Waifang Mountain.
Xu County was a former vassal state. The surname was Jiang. The descendants of Siyue were enfeoffed by Taishu. Twenty-four generations were reduced by Chu.
Puling County has 49,101 households and 261,418 people.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Zuoting.
Linying County was called Jianying during the reign of Wang Mang.
Fucheng County, Yingxiang, was a former vassal state, and the younger brother of King Wu of Zhou was enfeoffed in Qianbo.
Cheng'an County is a vassal state.
Chengxiu County of Zhou Dynasty was a vassal state. It was established during the reign of Gentong and was renamed Sugong in the second year of Gensi.
When the king is on a mission, he is called Jiamei.
In Yangcheng County, the Wei River flows out from Yangcheng Mountain and flows southeast to Changping into Langcheng. It passes through three counties and travels 500 miles.
Ti Cheng flows out from Yanggan Mountain, flows eastward to Xiacai and flows into the Huai River. It passes through three counties and travels 1,500 miles to Jingzhou for irrigation canals.
There are iron officials.
Lunshi County.
Runan County was first established by Emperor Gao. During the reign of Wang Mang, it was renamed Rufen.
Separated to reward the captain.
Belongs to the Yuzhou Provincial History Department.
There are 461,587 households with 2,596,148 people.
It has jurisdiction over thirty-seven counties: Wangchi, Menglao, and Xinglao. It is a princely state.
When Wang Shu was called, he was patrolled.
Huiqiang County, Fubo County, Nuyang County, Feiyang County, Chengfang County and Ancheng County are the princely states.
Wang Mang called for success.
Nanton County is the former Dunzi Kingdom, and everyone has the surname Ji.
Langling County, Taoyang County, was called Leqing during Wang Mang's reign.
Yichun County is a Hou Kingdom. It was called Xuanwei during the reign of Wang Mang.
Nuyin County was the former Hu State.
Managed by the captain.
During Wang Mang's reign, he was called Rufen.
In Xin Nao'ao, Mangongbao was moved from Jiji to Qianguo, and then to Wangcai two generations later.
When Wang Mang was in power, he was called Mian Qian.
Xinxi County was called Xinde during the reign of Wang Mang.
Zhuoyang County, Qisi County, Shenyang County, no title, Wang Ling's name was Yanji.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
召陵，弋阳，侯国。
西平，有铁官。
莽曰新亭。
上蔡，故蔡国，周武王弟叔度所封。
度放，成王封其子胡。十八世徙新蔡。
浸，莽曰闰治。
西华，莽曰华望。
长平，莽曰长正。
宜禄，莽曰赏都亭。
项，故国。
新郪，莽曰新延。
归德，侯国。宣帝置。
莽曰归惠。
新阳，莽曰新明。
安昌，侯国。
莽曰始成。
安阳，侯国。
莽曰均夏。
博阳，侯国。
莽曰乐家。
成阳，侯国。
莽曰新利。
定陵。
高陵山，汝水出，东南至新蔡入淮，过郡四，行千三百四十里。
南阳郡，泰置。
莽曰前队。
属荆州。
户三十五万九千三百一十六，口一百九十四万二千五十一。
县三十六：宛，故申伯国。
有屈申城。
县南有北筮山。
户四万七千五百四十七。
有工官、铁官。
莽曰南阳。
犨，杜衍，莽曰闰衍。
酂，侯国，莽曰南庚。
育阳，有南筮聚，在东北。
博山，侯国。
哀帝置。
故顺阳。
涅阳，莽曰前亭。
阴，堵阳，莽曰阳城。
雉，衡山，沣水所出，东至屋阝入汝。
山都，蔡阳，莽之母功显君邑。
新野，筑阳，故穀伯国。
莽曰宜禾。
棘阳，武当，舞阴，中阴山，瀙水所出，东至蔡入汝。
西鄂，穰，莽曰农穰。郦，育水出西北，南入汉。
安众，侯国。
故宛西乡。
冠军，武帝置。
故穰卢阳乡、宛临駣聚。
比阳，平氏，《禹贡》桐柏大复山在东南，淮水所出，东南至淮浦入海，过郡四，行三千二百四十里，青州川。
莽曰平善。
随，故国。
厉乡，故厉国也。
叶，楚叶公邑。
有长城，号曰方城。
translation: 
It is a princely state that is ugly and inferior, and has scholars who are allies with seduces.
In Xiping County, there is an iron official.
It was called Xinting during Wang Mang's reign.
Shangcai County was the former Cai State. King Zhou Wu's younger brother Shudu was entrusted here.
After Shudu was exiled, King Cheng granted his son Hu the title of Hu, and he moved to Xincai eighteen generations later.
Noodles are called Yan when they are beautiful.
In Xihua County, it is called plastic when it is beautiful.
The day is bright and beautiful, and the beautiful time is called Yan.
Yilu County is called Biao when it is beautiful.
Gengse, it used to be a prince state.
Xinshan County was called Xinyan during the reign of Wang Mang.
Guide County is a marquis state established during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Gui Hui.
Xinyang County was called Xinming during the reign of Wang Mang.
Anchang County is a prince state.
Wang Mang was called Shicheng.
The title of Anyang is the state of Hou.
In Wang Ling's time, it was called Plastic Tomb.
Boyang County is a Hou country.
When Dan Ling is born, it is called Lejia.
Chengyang County is a Hou country.
During Wang Mang's reign, he was called Xinli.
Dingling day.
This Cheng flows out from Zhibao Mountain and enters Ti Ling River in the southeast. He passes through four counties and travels 1,340 miles.
Nanyang County was established at the beginning of Qin Dynasty.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was renamed Qiandui.
Belongs to the Jingzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 359,316 households and 1,942,051 people.
There are thirty-six counties: Wan County. It was the former Shen Bo Kingdom.
There is Qushen City.
There is Beizhen Mountain in the south of the county.
There are 47,540 households.
There are work officers and iron officers.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Nanyang.
Tanbi, Duyan County, is called Chi at the time of the incident.
The title of the sculpture is the state of Hou. When the water chestnut is raised, it is called Nan Geng.
In Yuyang County, there is Nanzhenju, in the northeast.
Boshan County is a marquis state.
It was set during the reign of Emperor Ai.
It was Shunyang in the past.
Nieyang County was called avoid during the reign of Wang Mang.
When he died in Duyang County, Wang Ling was called Niyue.
The inlet water flows out from Hengshan Mountain and flows eastward to Li into Ru River.
Shandu County, Caiyangti, Wang Jie's mother Gong Xianjun's town.
Xinye County and Zhuyang County were the former Gu Bo Kingdom.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Yihe.
Sprinkling water flows out from Zhongyin Mountain in Jiyang County, Wudang County, and Wuyin County, and flows eastward to Cai into Rushui.
Na, Yue, in its prime was called Lao. Qu, bismuth flows out from the northwest and enters the Han River in the south.
Anzhong County is a prince state.
It is the Xixiang of Wan in the past.
Champion County was established during the reign of Emperor Wu.
It is the Linchi gathering place of Luyang Township and Wan County in the original Zhou County.
Biyang County, Pingshi County, Tongbai Dafu Mountain in "Yu Gong" is in the southeast. It flows out from Zaobao, southeast to the sea, passes through four counties, and travels 32,240 miles to Zhiye River.
When the caltrop comes, it is called the worst.
Hey, the old feudal state.
Kenchi is the original house country.
Yue is the town of Chu Li Tomb Gong.
There is the Great Wall, known as Youyue.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
邓，故国。
都尉治。
朝阳，莽曰厉信。
鲁阳，有鲁山。
古鲁县，御龙氏所迁。
鲁山，滍水所出，东北至定陵入汝。
又有昆水，东南至定陵入汝。
舂陵，侯国。
故蔡阳白水乡。
上唐乡，故唐国。
新都，侯国。
莽曰新林。
湖阳，故廖国也。
红阳，侯国。
莽曰红俞。
乐成，侯国。
博望，侯国。
莽曰宜乐。
复阳，侯国。
故湖阳乐乡。
南郡，秦置，高帝元年更为临江郡，五年复故。
景帝二年复为临江，中二年复故。
莽曰南顺。
属荆州。
户十二万五千五百七十九，口七十一万八千五百四十。
有发弩官。
县十八：江陵，故楚郢都，楚文王自丹阳徙此。
后九世平王城之。
后十世秦拔我郢，徙陈。
莽曰江陆。
临沮，《禹贡》南条荆山在东北，漳水所出，东至江陵入阳水，阳水入沔，行六百里。
夷陵。都尉治。
莽曰居利。
华容，云梦泽在南，荆州薮。
夏水首受江，东入沔，行五百里。
宜城，故鄢，惠帝三年更名。
郢，楚别邑，故郢。
莽曰郢亭。
巳阝，当阳，中庐，枝江，故罗国。
江沱出西，东入江。
襄阳，莽曰相阳。
编，有云梦官。
莽曰南顺。
秭归，归乡，故归国。
夷道，莽曰江南。
州陵，莽曰江夏。
若，楚昭王畏吴。自郢徙此，后复还郢。
巫，夷水东至夷道入江，过郡二，行五百四十里。
有盐官。
高成。
洈山，洈水所出。东入繇。
繇水南至华容入江，过郡二，行五百里。
translation: 
Deng County, an old feudal state.
Managed by the captain.
Chaoyang County, Wang Mang's name was Li Xin.
In Luyang County, there is Mount Lu.
Lu County in ancient times was the place where the Yulong family migrated.
Lushan is the origin of the burst water, which flows from the northeast to Dingling and flows into Ru River.
There is also Kunshui, which flows from the southeast to Dingling and flows into Rushui.
Chongling County is a prince state.
It used to be Baishui Township in Caiyang.
Shangtang Township was the former Tang Dynasty.
Xindu County is a marquis state.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Xinlin.
Huyang County was the former Liao State.
Hongyang County is a Hou country.
When Wang Mang was in power, his name was Hong Yu.
Lecheng County is a marquis state.
Bowang County is a prince state.
When the soil is rough, it is called Yile.
Fuyang County. It is a Hou state.
Luan Ji used to be a plastic ink maker.
Nanjun was established at the beginning of the Qin Dynasty. It was changed to Linjiang County in the first year of Emperor Gaodi and restored to its original name in the fifth year of Emperor Gaodi.
In the second year of Emperor Jing's reign, it was renamed Linjiang, and in the second year of Emperor Jing's reign, the original name was restored.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Nanshun.
It belongs to the History Department of Jingzhou Governor.
There are 125,579 households and 718,540 people.
There is a crossbow officer.
It has 18 counties under its jurisdiction: Jiangling County, the former Ying capital of Chu State, where King Wen of Chu moved from Danyang.
Nine generations later, King Ping built a city here.
Ten generations later, the Qin State captured the capital of Ying and moved it to Chen.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Jiang Lu.
Linju County, "Yu Gong" records that Jingshan Mountain is located in the south and in the northeast. Zhangshui flows out from here, flows eastward to Jiangling and flows into Yangshui, and Yangshui flows into Mianshui, a journey of 600 miles.
Yiling County is governed by the Duwei.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Juli.
In Huarong County, Yunmengze is in the south and is the lake of Jingzhou.
Xia Shui first receives water from the Yangtze River and flows eastward into Mianshui River, a journey of five hundred miles.
Yicheng County was formerly Yan County and was renamed in the third year of Emperor Hui's reign.
Ying County, another city of Chu State. It was the former capital of Ying.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Yingting.
The counties, Dangyang County, Zhonglu County and Zhijiang County, were the original Luo Kingdom.
Jiangtuo water flows out from the west and flows eastward into the Yangtze River.
Xiangyang County was called Xiangyang during the reign of Wang Mang.
In the county, there are officials from Yunmeng.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Nanshun.
Zigui County, returning home, is the original return to the country.
Yidao County was called Jiangnan during Wang Mang's reign.
Zhouling County was called Jiangxia during Wang Mang's reign.
In Ruoxian County, King Zhao of Chu was afraid of the Kingdom of Wu, so he moved here from the capital of Ying, and later returned to the capital of Ying.
In Wu County, the Yishui River flows eastward to Yidao and flows into the Yangtze River. It passes through two counties and travels 540 miles.
There is a salt officer.
Gaocheng County.
The water flows out from Guishan and flows eastward into Yao River.
The Yao River flows southward to Huarong and flows into the Yangtze River, passing through two counties and covering a distance of five hundred miles.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
莽曰言程。
江夏郡，高帝置。
属荆州。
户五万六千八百四十四，口二十一万九千二百一十八。
县十四：西陵，有云梦官。
莽曰江阳。
竟陵，章山在东北，古文以为内方山。
郧乡，楚郧公邑。
莽曰守平。
西阳，襄，莽曰襄非。
邾，衡山王吴芮都。
轪，故弦子国。
鄂，安陆，横尾山在东北。古文以为陪尾山。
沙羡，蕲春，鄳，云杜，下雉，莽曰闰光。
钟武。
侯国。
莽曰当利。
庐江郡，故淮南，文南十六年别为国。
金兰西北有东陵乡，淮水出。
属扬州。
庐江出陵阳东南。北入江。
户十二万四千三百八十三，口四十五万七千三百三十三。
有楼船官。
县十二：舒，故国。
莽曰昆乡。
居巢，龙舒，临湖，雩娄，决水北至蓼入淮，又有灌水，亦北至蓼入决，过郡二，行五百一十里。
襄安，莽曰庐江亭也。
枞阳，寻阳，《禹贡》九江在南，皆东合为大江。
灊，天柱山在南。
有祠。
沘山，沘水所出，北至寿春入芍陂。
睆，有铁官。
湖陵邑，北湖在南。
松兹。
侯国。
莽曰诵善。
九江郡，秦置，高帝四年更名为淮南园，武帝元狩元年复故。
莽曰延平。
属扬州。
户十五万五十二，口七十八万五百二十五。
有陂官、湖官。
县十五：寿春邑，楚考烈王自陈徙此。
浚遒，成德，莽曰平阿。
橐皋，阴陵，莽曰阴陆。
历阳，都尉治。
莽曰明义。
当涂，侯国。
莽曰山聚。
钟离，莽曰蚕富。
合肥，东城，莽曰武城。
博乡，侯国。
莽曰扬陆。
曲阳，侯国。
translation: 
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Yan Cheng.
Jiangxia County was first established by Emperor Gao.
Belongs to the Jingzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 56,844 households with 219,218 people.
There are fourteen counties: Xiling County, where there are officials from Yunmeng.
When Wang Mang was in power, his name was Jiang Yang.
Jingling County, Zhangshan is in the northeast, and ancient written records consider it to be Neifangshan.
Yunxiang is the town of Yun Gong of Chu State.
When Wang Mang was in power, he was called Shouping.
Xiyang County, Xiang County, was called Xiangfei during the reign of Wang Mang.
Lu County, the capital of Hengshan King Wu Rui.
Jixian County was the original Xianzi Kingdom.
E County, Anlu County, and Hengwei Mountain are in the northeast. Ancient written records consider it to be Peiwei Mountain.
Shaxian County, Qichun County, Lin County, Yundu County, Xiaphi County, were called Runguang during the reign of Wang Mang.
Zhongwu County.
It is a Hou state.
When Wang Mang was in power, he was called Dangli.
Lujiang County was the original Huainan Kingdom. It was established as a separate country in the 16th year of Emperor Wen's reign.
There is Shuling Township in the northwest of Jinlan, where the Huaihe River originates.
Belongs to the Yangzhou Governor's History Department.
The Lujiang River flows out from the southeast of Lingyang and flows north into the Yangtze River.
There are 124,383 households and 457,333 people.
There is a ship officer.
It governs twelve counties: Shu County, which was originally a Hou State.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Kunxiang.
Juchao County, Longshu County, Linhu County, and Yulou County, the direction of the Jueshui: Polygonum flows into the Huaihe River, and there is irrigation, and also north to the Polygonum flows into the Jueshui, passing through two counties, and the journey is 510 miles.
Xiang'an County was called Lujiang Pavilion during Wang Mang's reign.
Songyang County, Xunyang County, and Jiujiang are in the south according to "Yu Gong", and they all merge to form the Yangtze River in the east.
Qian County, Tianzhu Mountain is in the south.
There is a temple.
The Xianshui River flows from Xianshan Mountain and flows northward to Shouchun and Shaopi.
In Wan County, there is an iron officer.
Hulingyi County, North Lake is in the south.
Songz County.
It is a Hou state.
It is called Tongjiang when the time comes.
Jiujiang County was established at the beginning of the Qin Dynasty. It was renamed Huainan Kingdom in the fourth year of Emperor Gao, and its original name was restored in the first year of Emperor Wu's Yuanshou.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Yanping.
Belongs to the Yangzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 150,52 households with 780,525 people.
There are Pi officials and Hu officials.
There are fifteen counties: Shouchunyi County. King Kaolie of Chu State moved here from Chen.
Junqiu County, Chengde County, was called Ping'a during Wang Mang's reign.
Lugao County, Yinling County, was called Yinlu during Wang Mang's reign.
Liyang County is governed by the Duwei.
During Wang Mang's reign, he was called Mingyi.
Dangtu County is a Hou country.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Shanju.
Zhongli County was called Canfu during Wang Mang's reign.
Hefei County, Shucheng County, was called Wucheng during the reign of Wang Mang.
Boxiang County is a marquis state.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Yang Lu.
Quyang County is a Hou country.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
莽曰延平亭。
建阳，全椒，阜陵。
莽曰阜陆。
山阳郡。故梁。
景帝中六年别为山阳国。
武帝建元五年别为郡。
莽曰巨野。
属兖州。
户十七万二千八百四十七，口八十万一千二百八十八。
有铁官。
县二十三：昌邑，武帝天汉四年更山阳为昌邑国。
有梁丘乡。
《春秋传》曰 宋、齐会于梁丘 。
南平阳，莽曰黾平。
成武，有楚丘亭。
齐桓公所城，迁卫文公于此。
子成公徙濮阳。
莽曰成安。
湖陵，《禹贡》 浮于泗、淮，通于河 ，水在南。莽曰湖陆。
东缗，方与，橐，莽曰高平。
巨野，大野泽在北，兖州薮。
单父，都尉治。
莽曰利父。
薄，都关，城都，侯国。
莽曰城穀。
黄，侯国。
爰戚，侯国。
莽曰戚亭。
郜成，侯国。
莽曰告成。
中乡，侯国。
平乐，侯国。
包水东北至沛入泗。郑，侯国。
瑕丘，甾乡，侯国。
栗乡，侯国。
莽曰足亭。
曲乡，侯国。
西阳，侯国。
济阴郡，故梁。
景帝中六年别为济阴国。
宣帝甘露二年更名定陶。
《禹贡》荷泽在定陶东。
属兖州。
户二十九万二十五，口百三十八万六千二百七十八。
县九：定陶，故曹国，周武王弟叔振铎所封。
《禹贡》陶丘在西南。
陶丘亭。
冤句。莽改定陶曰济平，冤句县曰济平亭。
吕都，莽曰祈都。
葭密，成阳，有尧冢灵台。
《禹贡》雷泽在西北。
鄄城，莽曰鄄良。
句阳，秺，莽曰万岁。
乘氏。
泗水东南至睢陵入淮，过郡六，行千一百一十里。
沛郡。故秦泗水郡。
高帝更名。
translation: 
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Yanping Pavilion.
Jianyang County, Quanjiao County, Fuling County.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Fulu.
Shanyang County was formerly the state of Liang.
In the sixth year of Emperor Jing's reign, it was established as Shanyang Kingdom.
In the fifth year of Emperor Wu's reign, it was established as a county.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Juye.
Belongs to the Yanzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 172,847 households and 801,288 people.
There are iron officials.
It has 23 counties under its jurisdiction: Changyi County. Emperor Wu changed Shanyang into Changyi Kingdom in the fourth year of Tianhan Dynasty.
There is Liangqiu Township.
"Spring and Autumn Biography" says that Song and Qi met in Liangqiu to form an alliance.
Nanpingyang County was called Zuiping during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Chengwu County, there is Chuqiu Pavilion.
The city built by Duke Huan of Qi moved Duke Wen of Wei to Qianguo.
His son Chenggong moved to Puyang.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Cheng'an.
Huling County, Yu Gong" Take a boat from the Swimming River and the Huai River to reach the Yellow River. The water is in the south. It was called Hulu during Wang Mang's time.
Dongfan County, Fangyu County, and Lu County were called Gaoping during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Jubi County, Dabi Lake is in the north and is the lake of Yanzhou.
Shanfu County is governed by the captain.
When Wang Mang was in power, he was called Li Fu.
Bo County, Duguan County, and Chengdu County are feudal states.
It was called Chenggu during Wang Mang's reign.
Huang County is a Hou country.
Yuanqi County is a marquis state.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Qi Ting.
Gaocheng County is a prince state.
Wang Mang called it a success.
Zhongxiang County is a Hou country.
Pingle County is a Hou country.
Baocong goes northeast to Jiliu and returns to Nao, which is the state of Hou.
Xiaqiu County, Yuxiang County, is a marquis state.
Lixiang County is a marquis state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Zuting.
Quxiang County is a Hou country.
Xiyang County. It is a Hou state.
Jiyin County was the original Liang Kingdom.
In the sixth year of Emperor Jing's reign, it was established as Jiyin Kingdom.
In the second year of Emperor Xuan's reign, the city was renamed Dingtao.
The lotus in "Yu Gong" is to the east of Dingtao.
Belongs to the Yanzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 290,25 households and 1,386,278 people.
It governs nine counties: Dingtao County was the original state of Cao. King Zhou Wu's younger brother Shu Zhenduo was enfeoffed in Boguo.
The pottery mound in "Yu Gong" is in the southwest.
There is Taoqiu Pavilion.
In Yuanju County, Tao was renamed Jiping during the reign of Wang Mang, and Yuanju County was named Jipingting.
Ludu County was called Qidu during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Jiaomi County and Chengyang County, there is the tomb of Emperor Yao.
Lei Ze in "Yu Gong" is in the northwest.
Juancheng County was called Juanliang during the reign of Wang Mang.
Juyang County and Jie County were called Long Live when Wang Mang was in power.
Chengshi County.
The river swims southeast to Suiling and flows into the Huai River, passing through six counties and covering a distance of 1,110 miles.
Peijun is the Swimming County of Qin State.
During the reign of Emperor Gao, it was changed to a county.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
莽曰吾符。
属豫州。
户四十万九千七十九，口二百三万四百八十。
县三十七：相，莽曰吾符亭。
龙亢，竹，莽曰笃亭。
穀阳，萧，故萧叔国，宋别封附庸也。向，故国。
《春秋》曰 莒人入向 。
姜姓，炎帝后。
铚，广戚，侯国。
莽曰力聚。
下蔡，故州来国，为楚所灭，后吴取之，至夫差迁昭侯于此。
后四世侯齐竟为楚所灭。
丰，莽曰吾丰。
郸，莽曰单城。
谯，莽曰延成亭。
蕲，■乡。
高祖破黥布。
都尉治。
莽曰蕲城。
工虫，莽曰贡。
辄与，莽曰华乐。
山桑，公丘，侯国。
故滕国，周懿王了错叔绣所封，三十一世为齐所灭。
符离，莽曰符合。
敬丘，侯国。
夏丘，莽曰归思。
洨，侯国。
垓下，高祖破项羽。
莽曰育成，沛，有铁官。
芒，莽曰博治。
建成，侯国。
城父，夏肥水东南至下蔡入淮，过郡工，行六百二十里。
莽曰思善。
建平，侯国，莽曰田平。
酂，莽曰赞治。
栗，侯国，莽曰成富。
扶阳，侯国。
莽曰合治。
高，侯国。
高柴，侯国。
漂阳，平阿，侯国。
莽曰平宁。
东乡，临都，义成，祁乡。
侯国。
莽曰会谷。
魏郡，高帝置。
莽曰魏城。
属冀州。
户二十一万二千八百四十九，口九十万九千六百五十五。
县十八：邺，故大河在东北入海。
馆陶，河水别出为屯氏河，东北至章武入海，过郡四，行千五百里。
斥丘，莽曰利丘。
沙，内黄，清河水出南。
清渊，魏，都尉治。
莽曰魏城亭。
繁阳，元城，梁期，黎阳，莽曰黎蒸。
即裴，侯国。
莽曰即是。
translation: 
Wang Mang called me Fu.
Belongs to the Yuzhou Provincial History Department.
There are 49,079 households with 2,030,480 people.
It governs thirty-seven counties: Xiang County, which was called Wufuting during the reign of Wang Mang.
Longkang County and Zhuxian County were called Duting during the reign of Wang Mang.
Guyang County, Xiao County, is the original Xiao Shu Kingdom, which was established as a small country affiliated to the princes during the Song Dynasty.
Xiang County, the old Hou State, "Spring and Autumn" says that the Ju people entered the Xiang State.
The surname Jiang is a descendant of Emperor Yan.
Liao County, Guangqi County, is a marquis state.
When Wang Mang called it Liju.
Xiacai County, the original state of Zhoulai, was reduced by the State of Chu. Later, the State of Wu captured it and moved Zhaohou to Qianbao when Fucha arrived.
Four generations later, Hou Guoqi was finally eliminated by Chu.
Feng County was called Wu Feng during the reign of Wang Mang.
Dan County was called Shancheng during the reign of Wang Mang.
Qiao County was called Yancheng Pavilion during Wang Mang's reign.
Qixian County, Poppy Township.
Gaozu defeated Yingbu.
It is governed by the captain.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Qicheng.
Zhuxian County was called Gong during the reign of Wang Mang.
Noi and the county were called Huale during Wang Mang's reign.
Shansang County and Gongqiu County are feudal states.
It was the original Teng State. Cuo Shuxiu, the son of King Zhou Yi, was enfeoffed here. Thirty-one years later, he was destroyed by Qi State.
Fuli County was called Hehe during the reign of Wang Mang.
Jingqiu County is a Hou country.
Xiaqiu County was called Guisi during the reign of Wang Mang.
The school county is a marquis state.
Gaozu defeated Xiang Yu at Gaixia.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Yucheng. In Pei County, there is an iron officer.
Mang County was called Bozhi during the reign of Wang Mang.
When a county is built, it is a marquis state.
In Chengfu County, the Xia Feishui flows southeast to Buji and flows into the Huai River. It passes through two counties and travels 620 miles.
During Wang Mang's reign, he was called Sishan.
Jianping County is a Hou country. When Wang Mang was called Tian Ping.
Bu County was called Fei Zhi during Wang Mang's reign.
Li County is a marquis state. Wang Mang was called Cheng Fu.
Fuyang County is a Hou country.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Hezhi.
Gaoxian is a marquis state.
Gaochai County is a Hou country.
Piaoyang County and Ping'a County are prince states.
When Wang Mang was in power, his name was Pingning.
Dongxiang County, Lindu County, Yicheng County, Qixiang County.
Zuhou country.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was He Xing.
Wei County was first established by Emperor Gao.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Weicheng.
Belongs to the Jizhou Provincial History Department.
There are 212,849 households and 909,655 people.
It governs eighteen counties: Ye County, where the original big river flows into the sea in the northeast.
In Guantao County, the river divides to form the Tunshi River, which flows from the northeast to Zhangwu and flows into the sea. It passes through four counties and travels 1,500 miles.
When he dismissed Qiu County, it was called Liqiu during the reign of Wang Mang.
Sha County, Neihuang County, Qinghe River flows out from its south.
Qingyuan County and Wei County are governed by Duwei.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Weicheng Pavilion.
Fanyang County, Yuancheng County, Liangqi County, and Liyang County were called Li Zheng during the reign of Wang Mang.
That is Pei County, a prince state.
When Wang Mang calls out, that's it.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
武始，漳水东至邯郸入漳，又有拘涧水，东北至邯郸入白渠。
邯会，侯国。
阴安，平恩，侯国。
莽曰延平。
邯沟，侯国。
武安。
钦口山，白渠水所出，东至列人入漳。
又有浸水，东北至东昌入虖池河，过郡五。行六百一里。
有铁官。
莽曰桓安。
巨鹿郡，秦置。
属冀州。
户十五万五千九百五十一，口八十二万七千一百七十七。
县二十：巨鹿，《禹贡》大陆泽在北。
纣所作沙丘台在东北七十里。
南䜌，莽曰富平。
广阿，象氏，侯国。
莽曰宁昌。
廮陶，宋子，莽曰宜子。
杨氏，莽曰功陆。
临平，下典阳，都尉治。
贳，■，莽曰秦聚。
新市，侯国。
莽曰市乐。
堂阳，有盐官，尝分为经县。
安定，侯国敬武，历乡，侯国，莽曰历聚。
乐信，侯国。
武陶，侯国。
柏乡，侯国。
安乡。
侯国。
常山郡，高帝置。
莽曰井关。
属冀州。
户十四万一千七百四十一，口六十七万七千九百五十六。
县十八：元氏，沮水首受中丘西山穷泉谷，东至堂阳入黄河。
莽曰井关亭。
石邑，井陉山在西，洨水所出，东南至廮陶入泜。
桑中，侯国。
灵寿，中山桓公居此。
《禹贡》卫水出东北，江入虖池。
蒲吾，有铁山。
大白渠水首受绵曼水，东南至下曲阳入斯洨。
上曲阳，恒山北谷在西北。
有祠。
并州山。
《禹贡》恒水所出，东入滱。
莽曰常山亭。
九门，莽曰久门。
井陉，房子，赞皇山，济水所出，东至廮陶入泜。
莽曰多子。
中丘，逢山长谷，渚水所出，东至张邑入偶。
莽曰直聚。
封斯，侯国。
关，平棘，鄗，世祖即位，更名高邑。
莽曰禾成亭。
乐阳，侯国。
莽曰畅苗。
平台，侯国。
莽曰顺台。
都乡，侯国。
translation: 
In Wushi County, the Zhangshui flows eastward to Handan and flows into the Zhangshui. There is also the Kujianshui, which flows northeastward to the Handan Canal.
Hanhui County is a marquis state.
Yin'an County and Ping'en County are feudal states.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Yanping.
Hangou County is a Hou country.
Wu'an County.
Baiqushui originates from Qinkou Mountain and flows eastward into Zhangshui River.
There is also Shuishui, which goes northeast to Dongchang and flows into Kuchi River, passing through five counties and covering a distance of 601 miles.
There are iron officials.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Huan'an.
Julu County was established at the beginning of Qin Dynasty.
Belongs to the Jizhou Provincial History Department.
There are 155,951 households and 827,177 people.
It governs twenty counties: Julu County. The mainland in "Yu Gong" is in the north.
The sand dune platform built by King Zhou is seventy miles northeast.
Nanzhi County was called Fuping during Wang Mang's reign.
Guang'a County, Xiangshi County, is a marquis state.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Ningchang.
Yutao County, Songzi County, was called Yizi during the reign of Wang Mang.
Yang's County was called Gonglu during Wang Mang's reign.
Linping County and Xiaquyang County are governed by Duwei.
Shangxian County, Linxian County, was called Qinju during the reign of Wang Mang.
Xinshi County is a marquis state.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shile.
In Tangyang County, there is Yanguan. It was once divided into Jing County.
Anding County is a marquis state. Jingwu County and Lixiang County are feudal states. During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Liju.
Lexin County is a Hou country.
Wutao County is a Hou country.
Baixiang County is a marquis state.
Anxiang County.
It is a Hou state.
Changshan County was first established by Emperor Gao.
Wang Mang changed his name to Jingguan.
Belongs to the Jizhou Provincial History Department.
There are 141,741 households and 677,956 people.
It governs eighteen counties: Yuanshi County. Jushui first receives water from the Qiongquan Valley in the West Mountain of Zhongqiu, and flows eastward to Tangyang into the Yellow River.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Jingguanting.
In Shiyi County, Jingxing Mountain is to the west, and the Xiaoshui River originates from here, flowing southeast to Yutao and flowing into the Sangshui River.
Sangzhong County is a marquis state.
Lingshou County, where Duke Huan of Zhongshan lived.
The Wei River in "Yu Gong" flows from the northeast and flows eastward into the reservoir.
In Puwu County, there is Tieshan.
The water in the Great Canal first receives its water source from Mianman Water and flows southeast to Xiaquyang into Siwen.
Going up Quyang County, the north valley of Hengshan Mountain is in the northwest direction.
There is a temple.
Bingzhou Mountain.
The Hengshui in "Yu Gong" flows from Bingzhou Mountain and flows eastward.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Changshan Pavilion.
Jiumen County was called Jiumen during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Jingxing County and Fangfang County, Jishui flows out from Zanhuang Mountain and flows eastward to Yingtao and flows into Sangshui.
During Wang Mang's reign, he was called Duo Zi.
In Zhongqiu County, the Zhu River flows out from Fengshan Changgu, and flows eastward to Zhangyi and into the ether.
Wang Ling called Zhisai.
Fengsi County is a prince state.
Mengmo, Nuoji County and Haoxian County were renamed Gaoyi when Shizu ascended the throne.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called He Chengting.
Leyang County is a Hou country.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Chang Miao.
Platform County is a Hou State.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shuntai.
Duxiang County is a marquis state.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
有铁官。
莽曰分乡。
南行唐。
牛饮山白陉谷，滋水所出，东至新市入虖池水。
莽曰延亿。
清河郡，高帝置。
莽曰平河。
属冀州。
户二十万一千七百七十四，口八十七万五千四百二十二。
县十四：清阳，王都。
东武城，绎幕，灵，河水别出为鸣犊河，东北至蓚入屯氏河。
莽曰播。
厝，莽曰厝治。
鄃，莽曰善陆。
贝丘，都尉治。
信成，张甲河首受屯氏别河，东北至蓚入漳水，莎题，东阳，侯国。
莽曰胥陵。
信乡，侯国。
缭，枣强，复阳。
莽曰乐岁。
涿郡，高帝置。
莽曰垣翰。属幽州。
户十九万五千六百七，口七十八万二千七百六十四。
有铁官。
县二十九：涿，桃水首受涞水，分东至安次入河。
逎，莽曰逎屏，穀丘，故安，阎乡，易水所出，东至范阳入濡也。
并州浸。
莽曰深泽。
易，广望，侯国。
鄚，莽曰言符。
高阳，莽曰高亭。
州乡，侯国。
安平，都尉治。
莽曰广望亭。
樊舆，侯国。
莽曰握符。
成，侯国。
莽曰宜家。
良乡，侯国。
垣水南东至阳乡入桃。
莽曰广阳。
利乡，侯国。
莽曰章符。
临乡，侯国。
益昌，侯国。
莽曰有袟。
阳乡，侯国。
莽曰章武。
西乡，侯国。
莽曰移风。
饶阳，中水，武垣，莽曰垣翰亭。
阿陵，莽曰阿陆。
阿武，侯国。
高郭，侯国。
莽曰广堤。
新昌，侯国。
勃海郡，高帝置。
莽曰迎河。属幽州。
户二十五万六千三百七十七，口九十万五千一百一十九。
县二十六：浮阳，莽曰浮城。
translation: 
There are iron officials.
In Wang Mang's time, it was called Fenxiang.
Head south to Tang County.
Zishui flows out from Bailu Valley in Niuyin Mountain and flows eastward to Xinshi into Kuchi.
It is governed by the captain. During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Yanyi.
Qinghe County was first established by Emperor Gao.
When Wang Chai changed his name to Wang Hui.
Belongs to the Jizhou Provincial History Department.
There are 21,774 households with 875,422 people.
There are fourteen counties: Qingyang County, which is the capital of the princes and kings.
In Shuwucheng County, Yimu County, and Lingxian County, the water of the Yellow River is divided to form Muyantun, which flows northeastward to Lanshi River and flows into the Tunshi River.
Wang Ling called for broadcast.
The brain is called Chi when it is in full swing.
When sleepy, the mouth fades.
Danqiu County is governed by the captain.
In Xincheng County, the Zhangjia River first receives the Tunshi tributary and flows northeast to Bei into the Zhangshui River. XiTi County, Shuyang County, is a marquis state.
During Wang Lu's reign, his name was Zhili.
Xinxiang County is a marquis state.
Ling Xun, face question, complex question.
When it comes to management, it is called Mandrill.
Zhuo Bin, the beginning of the war.
The name of Yan Shi was Yan, and it belonged to the History Department of Butterfly Governor.
There are 195,607 households and 782,764 people.
There are iron officials.
It has jurisdiction over twenty-nine counties: Zhuo County, Zhongmi first receives the water source quickly, and diverts the water eastward to Baozhen and flows into Donghui.
As for the title, it is called Hao Xia at that time. In Guqiu County and Gu'an County, Zicheng flows out from Mibian and flows eastward to Jiedang into You. It is Yingye's irrigation canal.
The water also flows into the sky during the day.
Nanshenze County and Fanyang County were called Bibi when Wang Jianshi was there.
Traveling, sleepiness, and timelessness are called wrinkles. The title of daytime, the title of house view, is the prince's country.
The wing embryo is called Xuan Sheng.
Gaoyang County, Li Shi was called Zhihuang.
The sword leg is the prince's kingdom.
Anping County is governed by the Duwei.
When Dan Ling is born, his name is Lu Wanghuang.
The next day, there is the country of Hou.
When the water chestnut appears, it is called Zheda.
The grand title is the Hou Kingdom.
Wang Ling was called Xuan Sai.
Liangxiang County is a marquis state.
Dansai goes south and east to Kenmi and flows into Shumi.
When Wang Shi was born, his name was Lu Yan.
Lixiang County is a marquis state.
When he was Wang Jian, he was called Tong Da.
Linxiang County is a marquis state.
Yichang County is a Hou country.
When the stem is growing, it is called straight bran.
Yangxiang County is a Hou country.
Wang Ling was called Su.
Xixiang County is a Hou country.
Wang Ling called for a heavy burden.
Raoyang County, Shiqu, Wuyuan County, Wang Lingshi called.
Aling County, called Alu in Dancha.
Awu County is a Hou country.
Gaoguo County is a Hou country.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Guangdi.
Xinchang County. It is a Hou state.
Bohai County was first established by Emperor Gao.
During Wang Mang's reign, his name was Yinghe, and he belonged to the Youzhou Governor's Department.
There are 256,377 households with 905,119 people.
There are twenty-six counties: Fuyang County, which was called Fucheng during Wang Mang's reign.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
阳信，东光，有胡苏亭。
阜城，莽曰吾城。
千童，重合，南皮，莽曰迎河亭。
定，侯国。
章武，有盐官。
莽曰桓章。
中邑，莽曰检阴，高成，都尉治也。
高乐，莽曰为乡。
参户，侯国。
成平，虖池河，民曰徒骇河。
莽曰泽亭。
柳，侯国。
临乐，侯国。
莽曰乐亭。
东平舒，重平，安次，脩市，侯国。
莽曰居宁。
文安，景成，侯国。
束州，建成，章乡，侯国。
蒲领。
侯国。
平原郡，高帝置。
莽曰河平。
属青州。
户十五万四千三百八十七，口六十六万四千五百四十三。
县十九：平原，有笃马河，东北入海，五百六十里。
鬲，平当以为鬲津。
莽曰河平亭。
高唐，桑钦言漯水所出。
重丘，平昌，侯国。
羽，侯国。
莽曰羽贞。
般，莽曰分明。
乐陵，都尉治。
莽曰美阳。
祝阿，莽曰安成。
瑗，莽曰东顺亭。
阿阳，漯阴。莽曰翼成。
朸，莽曰张乡。
富平，侯国。
莽曰乐安亭。
安德，合阳，侯国。
莽曰宜乡。
楼虚，侯国。
龙额，侯国，莽曰清乡。
安。
侯国。
千乘郡，高帝置。
莽曰建信。
属青州。
户十一万六千七百二十七，口四十九万七百二十。
有铁官、盐官、均输官。
县十五：千乘，有铁官。
东邹，湿沃，莽曰延亭。
平安，侯国。
莽曰鸿睦。
博昌，时水东北至巨定入马车渎；幽州浸。
蓼城，都尉治。
莽曰施武。
建信，狄，莽曰利居。
琅槐，乐安，被阳，侯国。
高昌，繁安。侯国。
莽曰瓦亭。
高宛，莽曰常乡。
延乡。
济南郡，故齐。
文帝十六年别为济南国。
景帝二年为郡。
莽曰乐安。属青州。
户十四万七百六十一，口六十四万二千八百八十四。
县十四：东平陵，有工官、铁官。
邹平，台，莽曰台治。
梁邹，土鼓，於陵，都尉治。
莽曰於陆。
阳丘，般阳，莽曰济南亭。
菅，朝阳，侯国。
莽曰脩治。
历城，有铁官。
猇，侯国。
莽曰利成。
著，宜成。
侯国。
泰山郡，高帝置。
属兖州。
户十七万二千八十六，口七十二万六千六百四。
translation: 
In Yangxin County and Shuguang County, there is Hu Suting.
Fucheng County was called Wucheng County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Qiantong County, Chonghe County and Nanpi County were called Yinghe Pavilion during the reign of Wang Mang.
Dingxian is a marquis state.
In Zhangwu County, there is a salt officer.
Wang Mang was in Huanzhang.
Zhongyi County was called Jianyin during the reign of Wang Mang. Gaocheng County is governed by the Duwei.
Gaole County was called Xiang County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Shenhu County is a marquis state.
In thousands of counties, there is Mochi River, which is called Tuhai River among the people.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Zeting County.
Liu County is a prince state.
Linle County is a Hou country.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Leting County.
Saipingshu County, Chongping County, Anci County and Xiushi County are the feudal states.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Juning County.
Wen'an County and Jingcheng County are feudal states.
Shuzhou County, Jiancheng County, and Zhangxiang County are feudal states.
Puling County.
It is a Hou state.
Pingyuan County was first established by Emperor Gao.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Heping County.
Belongs to the Qingzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 154,387 households and 664,543 people.
It has jurisdiction over nineteen counties: Pingyuan County, where there is the Duma River, which flows into the sea to the northeast, with a journey of 560 miles.
Li County is considered to be Lijin County.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Hepingting.
In Gaotang County, Sangqin said that the Luo River flows out of Boguo.
Chongqiu County and Pingchang County are feudal states.
Yu County is a marquis state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Yuzhen County.
Ban County was called Mingming County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Leling County is governed by the captain.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Meiyang County.
Zhu'a County was called Ancheng County during Wang Mang's reign.
Yuan County was called Dongshunting County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Ayang County, Luoyin County, was called Yicheng County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Fang County was called Zhangxiang County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Fuping County is a Hou country.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Leanting County.
Anhui County and Heyang County are princely states.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Yixiang County.
Louxu County is a Hou country.
Long'e County is a Hou country. During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Qingxiang County.
An County.
It is a Hou state.
Qiancheng County was first established by Emperor Gao.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was changed to Jianxin County.
Belongs to the Qingzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 116,727 households with 490,720 people.
There are Tieguan, Yanguan and Junhanguan.
It has fifteen counties under its jurisdiction: Qiancheng County, with iron officials.
Shuzo County, Shiwo County, was called Yanting County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Ping'an County is a marquis state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Hongmu County.
In Bochang County, Shishui flows northeastward to Juding and flows into Machadu, which is the irrigation canal of Youzhou.
Liaocheng County is governed by the captain.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Shiwu County.
Jianxin County, Di County, and Liju County were called Liju County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Langhuai County, Le'an County, and Peiyang County are the feudal states.
Gaochang County and Fan'an County are feudal states.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Watting County.
Gaowan County was called Changxiang County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Yanxiang County.
Jinan County was the original state of Qi.
In the 16th year of Emperor Wen's reign, the Kingdom of Jinan was established.
This county was established in the second year of Emperor Jing's reign.
At the time of Wang Mang, it was called Le'an County and belonged to the Qingzhou Governor's Department.
There are 140,761 households with 642,884 people.
There are fourteen counties: Shupingling County, including Gongguan and Tieguan.
Zouping County, Tai County, was called Taizhi County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Liangzo County, Tugu County, and Yuling County are governed by Duwei.
At the time of Wang Mang, it was called Yu Lu County.
Yangqiu County, Banyang County, and Jinan Ting County were called Jinan Ting County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Jian County, Chaoyang County, is a marquis state.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xiuzhi County.
In Licheng County, there is an iron official.
The county number is a marquis state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Licheng County.
Zhuxian County, Yicheng County.
It is a Hou state.
Taishan County was first established during the reign of Emperor Gao.
Belongs to the Yanzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 172,086 households with 726,604 people.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
有工官。
汶水出莱毋，西入济。
县二十四：奉高，有明堂，在西南四里；武帝元封二年造。
有工官。
博，有泰山庙。
岱山在西北兖州山。
茬，卢，都尉治。
济北王都也。
肥成，蛇丘，隧乡，故隧国。
《春秋》曰 齐人歼于隧 也。
刚，故阐。莽曰柔。
柴，盖，临乐子山，洙水所出，西北至盖入池水。
又沂水南至下邳入泗，过郡五，行六百里，青州浸。
梁父，东平阳，南武阳，冠石山，治水所出，南至下邳入泗，过郡二，行九百四十里。
莽曰桓宣。
莱芜，原山，甾水所出，东至博昌入泲，幽州浸。
又《禹贡》汶水出西南入泲。
汶水，桑钦所言。
巨平，有亭亭山祠。
嬴，有铁官。
牟，故国。
蒙阴，《禹贡》蒙山在西南，有祠。
颛臾国在蒙山下。
莽曰蒙恩。
华，莽曰翼阴。
宁阳。侯国。
莽曰宁顺。
乘丘，富阳，桃山，侯国。
莽曰裒鲁。
桃乡，侯国。
莽曰鄣亭。
式。
齐郡。秦置。
莽曰济南。
属青州。
户十五万四千八百二十六，口五十五万四千四百四十四。
县十二：临淄，师尚父所封。
如水西北至梁邹入泲。
有服官、铁官。
莽曰齐陵。
昌国，德会水西北至西安入如。
利，莽曰利治。
西安，莽曰东宁。
巨定，马车渎水首受巨定，东北至琅槐入海。
广，为山，浊水所出，东北至广饶入巨定。
广饶，昭南，临朐，有逢山祠。
石膏山，洋水所出，东北至广饶入巨定。
莽曰监朐。
北乡，侯国。
莽曰禺聚。
平广，侯国。
台乡。
北海郡，景帝中二年置。
属青州。
translation: 
There are work officers.
The Wenshui River flows out from Laiwu and flows westward into the Jishui River.
It governs twenty-four counties: Fenggao County has Mingtang, four miles away in the southwest. It was built in the second year of Yuanfeng by Emperor Wu.
There are work officers.
In Bo County, there is Taishan Temple.
Daishan is in the northwest and is a mountain in Yanzhou.
Stu County and Lu County are governed by Duwei.
It is the capital of the King of Jibei.
Feicheng County, Taqiu County and Tunnel Township were the former Tunnel Country.
"Spring and Autumn" says that the people of Qi were annihilated in the tunnel.
Gang County was the former place of Chan. It was called Rou County during Wang Mang's reign.
Chaixian, Gaixian, and Zhushui flow out from Zishan in Linle, and westward: Gaixian flows into Chishui.
The Yishui River flows southward to Xiapi County and flows into the Swimming River. It passes through five counties and travels 600 miles. It is the irrigation canal of Qingzhou.
Liangfu County, Shupingyang County, and Nanwuyang County control the water flowing out from Guanshi Mountain, southward to Xiapi County and flowing into the swimming water. It passes through two counties and covers a distance of 940 miles.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Huanxuan County.
In Laiwu County, sterile water flows out of the original mountain. Going east to Bochang County, boiling water flows into the Youxi irrigation canal.
There is also the Wenshui River in "Yu Gong" flowing out from the southwest and entering the boiling water.
Wenshui is what Sanqin said.
In Juping County, there is Tingtingshan Temple.
In Ying County, there is an iron officer.
Mou County was a former marquis state.
In Mengyin County, there is a temple to the southwest of Mengshan Mountain in "Yugong".
Zhuan Yu's country is at the foot of Meng Mountain.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Meng'en County.
Hua County was called Yiyin during the reign of Wang Mang.
Ningyang County is a Hou country.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Ningshun County.
Chengqiu County, Fuyang County, and Taoshan County are feudal states.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Pulu County.
Taoxiang County is a marquis state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Zhangting County.
Shi County.
Qijun was first established in the Qin Dynasty.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Jinan County.
Belongs to the Qingzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 154,826 households with 554,444 people.
It has twelve counties under its jurisdiction: Linzi County, the fiefdom of Master Shangfu.
Such as water flowing northwest to Liangzo County with boiling water.
There are service officers and iron officers.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Qiling County.
In Changguo County, Dehui River flows northwest to Xi'an.
Li County was called Li Zhi County during Wang Mang's reign.
Xi'an County was called Dongning County during Wang Mang's reign.
In Juding County, Carriage Water first receives water from Juding and flows northeast to Langhuai into the sea.
In Guang County, turbid water flows out from Weishan and flows northeast to Guangrao into Juding.
There are Fengshan Temples in Guangrao County, Zhaonan County and Linqu County.
Jiucheng flows out from Huyiye and flows northeast to Lulanzhou into Qanding.
During Wang Mang's reign, he was called Jian Qu.
Beixiang County is a Hou country.
Wang Mang called Yuju County.
Pingguang County is a Hou country.
Taixiang County.
Beihai County was established in the second year of Emperor Jing's reign.
Belongs to the Qingzhou Governor's History Department.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
户十二万七千，口五十九万三千一百五十九。
县二十六：营陵，或曰营丘。
莽曰北海亭。
剧魁，侯国。
莽曰上符。
安丘，莽曰诛郅。
瓡，侯国。
莽曰道德。
淳于，益，莽曰探阳。
平寿，剧，侯国。
都昌，有盐官。
平望，侯国。
莽曰所聚。
平的，侯国。
柳泉，侯国。
莽曰弘睦。
寿光，有盐官。
莽曰翼平亭。
乐望，侯国。
饶，侯国。
斟，故国，禹后。
桑犊，覆甑山，溉水所出，东北至都昌入海。
平城，侯国。
密乡，侯国。
羊石，侯国。
乐都，侯国。
莽曰拔垄。
石乡，侯国。
上乡，侯国。
新成，侯国。
成乡，侯国。
莽曰石乐。
胶阳。
侯国。
东莱郡，高帝置。
属青州。
户十万三千二百九十二，口五十万二千六百九十三。
县十七：掖，莽曰掖通。
腄，有之罘山祠。
居上山，声洋水所出。东北入海。
平度，莽曰利卢。
黄，有莱山松林莱君祠。
莽曰意母。
临朐，有海水祠。
莽曰监朐。
曲成，有参山万里沙祠。
阳丘山，治水所出，南至沂入海。
有盐官。
牟平。莽曰望利。
东牟，有铁官、盐官。
莽曰弘德。
巾弦，有百支莱王祠。
有盐官。
育犁，昌阳，有盐官。
莽曰夙敬亭。
不夜，有成山日祠。
莽曰夙夜。
当利，有盐官。
莽曰东莱亭。
卢乡，阳乐，侯国。
莽曰延乐。
阳石，莽曰识命。
徐乡。
琅邪郡，秦置。
莽曰填夷。
属徐州。
户二十二万八千九百六十，口一百七万九千一百。
有铁官。
县五十一：东武，莽曰祥善。
不其，有太一、仙人祠九所，及明堂。武帝所起。
海曲，有盐官。
赣榆，朱虚，凡山，丹水所出，东北至寿光入海。
translation: 
There are 127,000 households and 593,159 people.
It governs twenty-six counties: Yingling County, some called Yingqiu County.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Beihaiting County.
Jukui County is a Hou country.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shangfu County.
Anqiu County was called Zhuzhi County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Yuxian County is a marquis state.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Daode County.
Chunyu County, Yi County, was called Tanyang County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Pingshou County, Juxian County, is a Hou Kingdom.
In Duchang County, there is Yanguan.
Pingwang County is a Hou country.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Suju County.
Ping's county is a Hou country.
Qiquan County is a Hou country.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Hongmu County.
In Shouguang County, there is Yanguan.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Yipingting County.
Lewang County is a marquis state.
Rao County is a marquis state.
Zhenxian, the original prince state, a descendant of Dayu.
In Sangdu County, irrigation water flows out from Fuzeng Mountain and flows northeast to Duchang County into the sea.
Pingcheng County is a Hou country.
Mixiang County is a Hou country.
Yangshi County is a Hou country.
Ledu County is a marquis state.
During Wang Mang's time, it was called Balong County. Some were used as supports and some were used as branches.
Shixiang County is a Hou country.
One is Zhengxiang County. Shangxiang County is a Hou country.
Xincheng County is a marquis state.
Chengxiang County is a Hou country.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Shile County.
Jiaoyang County.
It is a Hou state.
Donglai County was first established during the reign of Emperor Gao.
Belongs to the Qingzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 103,292 households and 52,693 people.
It has seventeen counties under its jurisdiction: Ye County, which was called Yetong County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Zhuang County, there is Fushan Temple.
Shengyang water flows out from Jushang Mountain and flows northeast into the sea.
Pingdu County was called Lilu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Huang County, there is Songlin Laijun Temple in Laishan.
During Wang Mang's reign, she was called Yi Mu.
In Linqu County, there is a Haihai Temple.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Jianqu County.
In Qucheng County, there is a shrine with thousands of miles of sand in the mountains.
The controlled water flows out from Yangqiu Mountain and flows south to Yi County into the sea.
There is a salt officer.
Muping County was called Wangli County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Dongmou County has Tieguan and Yanguan.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Hongde County.
In Zhixian County, there is a temple for the king of Baizhi Lai.
There is a salt officer.
There is Yanguan in Yuli County and Changyang County.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Sujingting County.
In Buye County, there is a mountain sun shrine.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Suye County.
There is a salt officer in Dangli County.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Laiting County, Cambodia.
Luxiang County and Yangle County are prince states.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Yanle County.
Yangshi County was called Shiming County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Xuxiang County.
Langxie County was established during the Qin Dynasty.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was changed to Fill Yi County.
Belongs to the Xuzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 228,960 households and 1,079,100 people.
There are iron officials.
There are fifty-one counties: Shuwu County, which was called Xiangxi County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Not only in the county, there are Taiyi, nine descendant ancestral halls, and Mingtang, which were built during the reign of Emperor Wu.
In Haiqu County, there is Yanguan.
In Ganyu County and Zhuxu County, Danshui flows out from Fanshan and flows northeast to Shouguang County into the sea.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
东泰山，汶水所出，东至安丘入维。
有三山、五帝祠。
诸，莽曰诸并。
梧成，灵门，有高柘山。
壶山，浯水所出，东北入淮。
姑幕，都尉治。
或曰薄姑。
莽曰季睦。
虚水，侯国。
临原，侯国。
莽曰填夷亭。
琅邪，越王句践尝治此，起馆台。
有四时祠。
祓，侯国。
柜，根艾水东入海。莽曰祓同。
缶并，侯国。
邞，胶水东至平度入海。莽曰纯德。
雩叚，侯国。
黔陬，故介国也。
云，侯国。
计斤，莒子始起此，后徙莒。
有盐官。
稻，侯国。
皋虞，侯国。
莽曰盈庐。
平昌，长广，有莱山莱王祠。
奚养泽在西，秦地图曰剧清池，幽州薮。
有盐官。
横，故山，久台水所出，东南至东武入淮。
莽曰令丘。
东莞，术水南至下邳入泗，过郡三，行七百一十里，青州浸。
魏其，侯国。
莽曰青泉。
昌，有环山祠。
兹乡，侯国。
箕，侯国。《禹贡》濰水北至都昌入海，过郡三，行五百二十里，兖州浸也。
椑，夜头水南至海。
莽曰识命。
高广，侯国。
高乡，侯国。
柔，侯国。
即来，侯国。
莽曰盛睦。
丽，侯国。
武乡，侯国。
莽曰顺理。
伊乡，侯国。
新山，侯国。
高阳，侯国。
昆山，侯国。
参封，侯国。
折泉，侯国。
折泉水北至莫入淮。
博石，侯国。
房山，侯国。
慎乡，侯国。
驷望，侯国。
莽曰泠乡。
安丘，侯国。
莽曰宁乡。
高陵，侯国。
莽曰蒲陆。
临安，侯国。
translation: 
The Wenshui River flows out from Dongtai Mountain and flows eastward to Anqiu County into the Weishui River.
There are three mountains and five emperors' temples.
The counties were called Zhu Bingxian during Wang Mang's reign.
Wucheng County and Lingmen County have Gaopu Mountain.
The Wu River flows out from Hushan and flows into the Huai River towards Shubei.
Gumi County is governed by the Duwei.
Some are called Bogu County.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Jimu County.
Xushui County is a Hou country.
Linyuan County is a Hou country.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Fillyiting County.
Langye County, King Gou Jian of Yue once ruled here and built a pavilion.
There is a temple of four seasons.
Qixian is a marquis state.
In Ke County, the root Ai water flows eastward into the sea. It was called Qutong County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Fu County is a prince state.
In Zheng County, the glue flows eastward to Pingdu County and flows into the sea. It was called Chunde County during Wang Mang's reign.
Yusui County is a prince state.
Qianzou County was the former Jieguo State.
Yun County is a Hou country.
Jijin County, Juzi began to build, and later moved to Juxian.
There is a salt officer.
Daoxian is a Hou country.
Gaoyu County is a marquis state.
When Gongmang was working, it was called Yinglu.
In Pingchang County and Changguang County, there is Laishan Laiwang Temple.
Xi Yangze is in the west. The map of Qin State is called Juqingchi, which is a lake in Youzhou.
There is a salt officer.
In Heng County, the Jiutai River flows out from Gushan and flows southeast to Shuwu County into the Huai River.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Lingqiu County.
From Dongguan County, Shushui flows south to Xiapi County and flows into the Swimming River. It passes through three counties and travels 710 miles. It is the irrigation canal of Qingzhou.
Wei Qixian is a marquis state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Qingquan County.
In Chang County, there is Huanshan Temple.
This township is a prince's country.
Ji County is a prince state. The Weishui River in "Yu Gong" flows north to Qamdo County and flows into the sea. It passes through three counties and travels 520 miles. It is the irrigation canal of Yanzhou.
In Bai County, the water flows southward to the sea at night.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shiming County.
Gaoguang County is a Hou country.
Gaoxiang County is a Hou Kingdom.
Rou County is a Hou country.
Ji Lai County is a marquis state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Shengmu County.
Li County is a marquis state.
Wuxiang County is a marquis state.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shunli County.
Yixiang County is a Hou country.
Xinshan County is a Hou country.
Gaoyang County is a Hou country.
Kunshan County is a prince state.
Shenfeng County is a marquis state.
Zhequan County is a Hou country.
The water from Zhequan flows northward to Mo County and flows into the Huai River.
Boshi County is a marquis state.
Fangshan County is a prince state.
Shenxiang County is a marquis state.
Siwang County is a Hou country.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Lingxiang County.
Anqiu County is a prince state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Ningxiang County.
Gaoling County is a marquis state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Pulu County.
Lin'an County is a marquis state.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
莽曰诚信。
石山。
侯国。
东海郡，高帝置。
莽曰沂平。
属徐州。
户三十五万八千四百一十四，口百五十五万九千三百五十七。
县三十八：郯，故国，少昊后，盈姓。
兰陵，莽曰兰东。
襄贲，莽曰章信。
下邳，葛峄山在西，古文以为峄阳。
有铁官。
莽曰闰俭。
良成，侯国。
莽曰承翰。
平曲，莽曰平端。
戚，朐，秦始皇立石海上以为东门阙。
有铁官。
开阳，故鄅国。
莽曰厌虏。
费，故鲁季氏邑。
都尉治。莽曰顺从。
利成，莽曰流泉。
海曲，莽曰东海亭。
兰祺，侯国。
莽曰溥睦。
缯，故国。
禹后。
莽曰缯治。
南成，侯国。
山乡，侯国。
建乡，侯国。
即丘，莽曰就信。
祝其，《禹贡》羽山在南，鲧所殛。
莽曰犹亭。
临沂，厚丘，莽曰祝其亭。
容丘，侯国。
祠水东南至下邳入泗。
东安，侯国。
莽曰业亭。
合乡，莽曰合聚。
承，莽曰承治。
建阳，侯国。
莽曰建力。
曲阳，莽曰从羊。
司吾，莽曰息吾。
于乡，侯国。
平曲，侯国。
莽曰端平。
都阳，侯国。
阴平，侯国。
郚乡，侯国。
莽曰徐亭。
武阳，侯国。
莽曰弘亭。
新阳，侯国。
莽曰博聚。
建陵，侯国。
莽曰付亭。
昌虑，侯国。
莽曰虑聚。
都平。
侯国。
临淮郡，武帝元狩六年置。
translation: 
It was called Chengxin County during Wang Mang's reign.
Shishan County.
It is a Hou state.
Donghai County was established during the reign of Emperor Gao.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was changed to Yiping County.
Belongs to the Xuzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 358,414 households and 1,559,357 people.
There are thirty-eight counties: Tan County, originally a Hou Kingdom, a descendant of Shaohao, with the surname Ying.
Lanling County was called Landong County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Xiangben County was called Zhangxin County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Xiapi County, Gechan Mountain is in the west of the county. According to ancient written records, it is Yiyang.
There are iron officials.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Runjian County.
Liangcheng County is a marquis state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Chenghan County.
Qianqu County was called Pingduan County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Qixian and Quxian, Qin Shihuang built a stone on the sea as Shumenque.
There are iron officials.
Kaiyang County is the original country of Hao.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Yanlu County.
Feixian County was the original town of the Ji family of the State of Lu.
It was governed by the Duwei and was called Shunbong County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Li County was called Liuquan County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Haiqu County was called Donghaiting County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Lanqi County is a prince state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Pumu County.
Zeng County was originally a Hou State.
Descendants of Dayu.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Zengzhi County.
Nancheng County is a Hou country.
Shanxiang County is a Hou country.
Jianxiang County is a marquis state.
That is Qiu County, which was called Juxin County during Wang Mang's reign.
In Zhuqixian County, Yushan in "Yu Gong" is to the south, where Gun was killed.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Youting County.
Linyi County, Houqiu County, and Zhuqiting County were called Zhuqiting County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Rongqiu County is a Hou country.
The temple water flows southeast to Xiapi and flows into the swimming water.
Shu'an County is a marquis state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Yeting County.
Hexiang County was called Heju County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Cheng County was called Chengzhi County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Jianyang County is a Hou country.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Jianli County.
Quyang County was called Congyang County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Siwu County was called Xiwu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Yuxiang County is a marquis state.
Pingqu County is a Hou country.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Duanping County.
Duyang County is a Hou country.
Yinping County is a Hou country.
Junxiangxian is a marquis state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Xuting County.
Wuyang County is a Hou country.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Hongting County.
Xinyang County is a Hou country.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Boju County.
Jianling County is a marquis state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Futing County.
Changlu County is a prince state.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Luju County.
Duping County.
It is a Hou state.
Linhuai County was established in the sixth year of Yuan Shou by Emperor Wu.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
莽曰淮平。
户二十六万八千二百八十三，口百二十三万七千七百六十四。
县二十九：徐，故国，盈姓。
至春秋时徐子章禹为楚所灭。
莽曰徐调。
取虑，淮浦，游水北入海。
莽曰淮敬。
盱眙，都尉治。
莽曰武匡。
厹犹，莽曰秉义。
僮，莽曰成信。
射阳。莽曰监淮亭。
开阳，赘其，高山，睢陵，莽曰睢陆。
盐渎，有铁官。
淮阴，莽曰嘉信。
淮陵，莽曰淮陆。
下相，莽曰从德。
富陵，莽曰■虏。
东阳，播旌，莽曰著信。
西平，莽曰永聚。
高平，侯国。
莽曰成丘。
开陵，侯国。
莽曰成乡。
昌阳。侯国。
广平，侯国。
莽曰平宁。
兰阳，侯国。
莽曰建节。
襄平，侯国。
莽曰相平。
海陵，有江海会祠。
莽曰亭间。
舆，莽曰美德。
堂邑，有铁官。
乐陵。
侯国。
会稽郡，秦置。
高帝六年为荆国，十二年更名吴。
景帝四年属江都。
属扬州。
户二十二万三千三十八，口百三万二千六百四。
县二十六：吴，故国，周太伯所邑。
具区泽在西，扬州薮，古文以为震泽。
南江在南，东入海，扬州川。
莽曰泰德。
曲阿，故云阳，莽曰风美。
乌伤，莽曰乌孝。
毗陵，季札所居。
江在北，东入海，扬州川。
莽曰毗坛。
馀暨，萧山，潘水所出。东入海。
莽曰馀衍。
阳羡，诸暨，莽曰疏虏。
translation: 
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Huaiping County.
There are 268,283 households and 1,237,764 people.
There are twenty-nine counties under it: Xu County, the original prince state. The surname Ying.
By the Spring and Autumn Period, Xu Zi and Zhang Yu were eliminated by the Chu State.
During the reign of Wang Mang, Xu transferred the county.
Taking Lu County and Huaipu County, the water flows northward into the sea.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Huaijing County.
Xuyi County is governed by the Duwei.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Wukuang County.
Gongyou County was called Bingyi County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Tong County was called Chengxin County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Sheyang County was called Huaiting County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Kaiyang County, Zhiqi County, Gaoshan County, Suiling County, and Suilu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Yandu County, there is an iron official.
Huaiyin County was called Jiaxin County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Huailing County was called Huailu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Xiaxiang County was called Congde County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Fuling County was called Kelu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Shuyang County, Bojing County, and Xin County were called Xin County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Xiping County was called Yongju County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Gaoping County is a Hou country.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Chengqiu County.
Kailing County is a marquis state.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Chengxiang County.
Changyang County is a Hou country.
Guangping County is a Hou Kingdom.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Pingning County.
Lanyang County is a Hou country.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Jianjie County.
Xianghu County is a feudal state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Xiangping County.
In Hailing County, there is Jianghai Temple.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Tingjian County.
Yu County was called Meide County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Tangyi County, there is an iron officer.
Leling County.
It is a Hou state.
Kuaiji County was established during the Qin Dynasty.
In the sixth year of Emperor Gao's reign, it was called Jing Kingdom, and in the twelfth year of Emperor Gao's reign, it was renamed Wu Commandery.
In the fourth year of Emperor Jing's reign, he belonged to Jiangdu.
Belongs to the Yangzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 223,038 households with 1,032,604 people.
There are twenty-six counties under it: Wu County was originally a Hou State and the town of Taibo Zhou.
Juquze is in the west, a lake in Yangzhou, and ancient texts record it as Zhenze.
Nanjiang is in the south and flows eastward into the sea. It is the river of Yangzhou.
It was called Taide County during Wang Mang's reign.
Qu'a County is the original Yunyang County. During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Fengmei County.
Wushang County was called Wuxiao County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Piling County is where Jizha lives.
The Yangtze River is in the north and flows eastward into the sea. It is the river of Yangzhou.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Pitan County.
In Yuji County, Panshui flows out from Xiaoshan and flows eastward into the sea.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Yuyan County.
Yangxian County, Zhuji County, was called Shulu County during the reign of Wang Mang.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
无锡，有历山，春申君岁祠以牛。
莽曰有锡。
山阴，会稽山在南。上有禹冢、禹井，扬州山。
越王勾践本国。
有灵文园。
丹徒，馀姚，娄，有南武城，阖闾所起以候越。
莽曰娄治。
上虞，有仇亭。
柯水东入海。
莽曰会稽。
海盐，故武原乡。
有盐官。
莽曰展武。
剡，莽曰尽忠。
由拳，柴辟，故就李乡，吴、越战地。
大末，穀水东北至钱唐入江。
莽曰末治。
乌程，有欧阳亭。
句章，渠水东入海。
馀杭，莽曰进睦。
鄞，有镇亭，有鮚埼亭。
东南有天门水入海。
有越天门山。
莽曰谨。
钱唐，西部都尉治。
武林山，武林水所出，东入海，行八百三十里，莽曰泉亭。
鄮，莽曰海治。
富春，莽曰诛岁。
冶，回浦。
南部都尉治。
丹扬郡，故鄣郡。
属江都。
武帝元封二年更名丹扬。
属扬州。
户十万七千五百四十一，口四十万五千一百七十。
有铜官。
县十七：宛陵，彭泽聚在西南。
清水西北至芜胡入江。
莽曰无宛。
於，江乘，莽曰相武。
春穀，秣陵，莽曰宣亭。
故鄣，莽曰候望。
句容，泾，丹阳，楚之先熊绎所封，十八世。文王徙郢。
石城，分江水首受江，东至馀姚入海，过郡二，行千二百里。
胡孰，陵阳，桑钦言淮水出东南，北入大江。
芜湖，中江出西南，东至阳羡入海，扬州川。
黝，渐江水出南蛮夷中，东入海。
成帝鸿嘉二年为广德王国。
莽曰愬虏。
溧阳，歙，都尉治。
宣城。
translation: 
In Wuxi County, there is Mount Li, where Lord Chun Shen sacrifices cattle every year.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Youxi County.
In Shanyin County, Kuaiji Mountain is in the south, with Dayu's Tomb and Dayu Well on it, which are the mountain mausoleums of Yangzhou.
The home country of Gou Jian, King of Yue.
There is Lingwen Garden.
In Dantu County, Yuyao County, and Lou County, there is Nanwucheng, which was built to monitor the Yue Kingdom.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Louzhi County.
In Shangyu County, there is Qiuting.
Ke Shui flows eastward into the sea.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Kuaiji County.
Haiyan County is the original Wuyuan Township.
There is a salt officer.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Zhanwu County.
Yan County was called Jinzhong County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Youquan County and Chaipi were the original places where Wu and Yue fought in Li Township.
In Damo County, the valley water flows northeast to Qiantang County and flows into the Yangtze River.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Mozhi County.
In Wucheng County, there is Ouyang Pavilion.
In Juzhang County, the canal water flows eastward into the East China Sea.
Yuhang County was called Jinmu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Yinxian County, there is a town pavilion and a Qingyi Pavilion.
In the southeast, Tianmen Water flows into the sea.
There is Yueyue Tianmen Mountain.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Jin County.
Qiantang County is governed by the Western Captain.
Wulin water flows out from Wulin Mountain and flows eastward into the sea, traveling 830 miles. During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Quanting County.
Deng County was called Haizhi County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Fuchun County was called Zhusui County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Ye County, Huipu County.
It is governed by the southern captain.
Danyang County was originally Zhang County.
Belongs to Jiangdu.
Emperor Wu Yuanfeng. It was renamed Danyang County.
Belongs to the Yangzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 107,541 households with 405,171 persons.
There are bronze officials.
There are seventeen counties under it: Wanling County, Pengze County is concentrated in the southwest.
The clear water flows northwest to Wuhu and flows into the Yangtze River.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Wuwan County.
Yuti County, Jiangcheng County, and Xiangwu County were called Xiangwu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Chungu County, Moling County, and Xuanting County were called Xuanting County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Therefore, Zhang County was called Houwang County during Wang Mang's reign.
Jurong County, Jing County, and Danyang County were the fiefdoms of Xiong Yi, the ancestor of Chu State. After eighteen generations, King Wen moved to Ying.
In Shicheng County, the Fenjiang River first receives water from the Yangtze River and flows eastward to Yuyao County into the sea, passing through two counties and traveling 1,200 miles.
Hushu County, Lingyang County, and Sangqin said that the Huai River flows out to the southeast and flows north into the river.
In Wuhu County, the Zhongjiang River flows out to the southwest and flows eastward to Yangxian County into the sea. It is a river in Yangzhou.
In Tixian County, the Jianjiang River flows out from the southern barbarians and flows eastward into the sea.
In the second year of Emperor Cheng Hongjia's reign, it became the Guangde Kingdom.
During the Mang Dynasty, it was called Shulu County.
Liyang County and She County are governed by Duwei.
Xuancheng County.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
豫章郡，高帝置。
莽曰九江。
属扬州。户六万七千四百六十二，口三十五万一千九百六十五。
县十八：南昌，莽曰宜善。
庐陵，莽曰桓亭。
彭泽，《禹贡》彭蠡泽在西。
鄱阳，武阳乡右十余里有黄金采。
鄱水西入湖汉。
莽曰乡亭。
历陵，傅易山、傅易川在南，古文以为傅浅原。莽曰蒲亭。
馀汗，馀水在北，至鄡阳入湖汉。
莽曰治干。
柴桑，莽曰九江亭。
艾，修水东北至彭泽入湖汉，行六百六十里。
莽曰治翰。
赣，豫章水出西南，北入大江。
新淦，都尉治。
莽曰偶亭。
南城，盱水西北至南昌入湖汉。
建成，蜀水东至南昌入湖汉。
莽曰多聚。
宜春，南水东至新淦入湖汉。莽曰修晓。
海昏，莽曰宜生。
雩都，湖汉水东至彭泽入江，行千九百八十里。
鄡阳，莽曰预章。
南野，彭水东入湖汉。
安平。
侯国。
莽曰安宁。
桂阳郡，高帝置。
莽曰南平。
属荆州。
户二万八千一百一十九，口十五万六千四百八十八。
有金官。
县十一：郴，耒山，耒水所出，西至湘南入湘。
项羽所立义帝都此。
莽曰宣风。
临武，秦水东南至浈阳入汇，行七百里。
莽曰大武。
便，莽曰便屏。
南平，耒阳，春山，舂水所出，北至酃入湖，过郡二，行七百八十里。
莽曰南平亭。
桂阳，汇水南至四会入郁，过郡二，行九百里。
阳山，侯国。
曲江，莽曰除虏。
含洭，浈阳，莽曰基武。
阴山。
侯国。
武陵郡，高帝置。
莽曰建平。
属荆州。
户三万四千一百七十七，口十八万五千七百五十八。
translation: 
Yuzhang County was established during the reign of Emperor Gao.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Jiujiang County.
Belonging to the Yangzhou Governor's Department: there are 67,462 households and 351,965 people.
There are eighteen counties under it: Nanchang County, which was called Yishan County during Wang Mang's reign.
Luling County was called Huanting County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Pengze County, Penglize in "Yu Gong" is to the west.
In Poyang County, there is a place for gold mining in Budoli, west of Wuyang Township.
The Po River flows westward into Huhan.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xiangting County.
Liling County, Fu Yishan, Fu Yi! In the south, the written records of the Zhan Dynasty think it is Fu Qianyuan, and it was called Puting County during Wang Mang's time.
In Yuhan County, Yushui is in the north and flows into Huhan at Langyang.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Zhiqian County.
Chaisang County was called Jiujiang Ting County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Ai County, Xiushui flows northeast to Pengze County and flows into Huhan, a journey of 660 miles.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Zhihan County.
Gan County. Yuzhang water flows out from the southwest and flows into the river northward.
Xingan County is governed by the Duwei.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Outing County.
In Nancheng County, Xu River flows northwest to Nanchang and flows into Huhan.
After the county was built, the Shu River flowed eastward to Nanchang County and flowed into Huhan.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Duoju County.
In Yichun County, the South Water flows eastward to Xingan and flows into Huhan. It was called Xiuxiao County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Haihun County was called Yisheng County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Yudu County, the Huhan River flows eastward to Pengze and flows into the Yangtze River, a journey of 1,980 miles.
Xiaoyang County was called Yuzhang County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Nanbi County, Pengshui flows eastward into Huhan.
Anping County.
It is a Hou state.
It was called Anning County during Wang Mang's reign.
Guiyang County was established during the reign of Emperor Gao.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was changed to Nanping County.
Belongs to the Jingzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 28,119 households and 156,488 people.
There is a gold officer.
There are eleven counties under it: Chen County. Lei water flows out from the mountains and flows southwest to Xiangnan County into the lake.
Emperor Yi established by Xiang Yu established his capital here.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Xuanfeng County.
In Linwu County, Qinshui flows southeast to Ziyang County and flows into Huishui, a journey of 700 miles.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Dawu County.
Bian County was called Bianping County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Nanping County and Leiyang County, Chung water flows out from Chong Mountain and flows north to Ling County into the Great Lake, passing through two counties and traveling 780 miles.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Nanpingting County.
Guiyang County collects water and flows south to Sihui County into Yushui. It passes through two counties and travels 900 miles.
Yangshan County is a Hou country.
Qujiang County was called Chulu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Hancang County, Zhenyang County, and Jiwu County were called Jiwu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Yinshan County.
It is a Hou state.
Wuling County was established during the reign of Emperor Gao.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was changed to Jianping County.
Belongs to the Jingzhou Governor's History Department.
There are 34,177 households with 185,758 people.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
县十三：索，渐水东入沅。
孱陵，莽曰孱陆。
临沅。莽曰监元。
沅陵，莽曰沅陆。
镡成，康谷水南入海。
玉山，潭水所出，东至阿林入郁，过郡二，行七百二十里。
无阳，无水首受故且兰，南入沅，八百九十里。
迁陵，莽曰迁陆。
辰阳，三山谷，辰水所出，南入沅，七百五十里。
莽曰会亭。
酉阳，义陵，鄜梁山，序水所出，西入沅。
莽曰建平。
佷山，零阳，充。
酉原山，酉水所出，南至沅陵入沅，行千二百里。
历山，澧水所出，东至下隽入沅，过郡二，行一千二百里。
零陵郡，武帝元鼎六年置。
莽曰九疑。
属荆州。
户二万一千九十二，口十三万九千三百七十八。
县十：零陵，阳海山，湘水所出，北至酃入江，过郡二，行二千五百三十里。
又有离水，东南至广信入郁林，行九百八十里。
营道，九疑山在南。
莽曰九疑亭。
始安，夫夷，营浦，都梁，侯国。
路山，资水所出，东北至益阳入沅，过郡二，行千八百里。
冷道，莽曰：泠陵。
泉陵。侯国。
莽曰溥闰，洮阳，莽曰洮治。
钟武。
莽曰钟桓。
汉中郡，秦置。
莽曰新成。属益州。
户十万一千五百七十，口三十万六百一十四。
县十二：西城，旬阳，北山，旬水所出，南入沔。
南郑，旱山，池水所出，东北入汉。
褒中，都尉治。
汉阳乡。
房陵，淮山，淮水所出，东至中庐入沔。
又有筑水，东至筑阳亦入沔。
东山，沮水所出，东至郢入江，行七百里。
安阳，鬵谷水出西南，北入汉。
在谷水出北，南入汉。
成固，沔阳，有铁官。
钖，莽曰钖治。
武陵，上庸，长利。
有郧关。
广汉郡，高帝置。
莽曰就都。
属益州。
户十六万七千四百九十九，口六十六万二千二百四十九。
translation: 
There are thirteen counties below: Suo County, the gradual water flows eastward into the Yuan River.
Chiling County was called Chilu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Linyuan County was called Jianyuan County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Yuanling County was called Yuanlu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Duocheng County, Kanggu water flows southward into the sea.
Tanshui flows out from Yushan, flows eastward to Alin County and flows into Yushui, passing through two counties and traveling a hundred and twenty miles.
In Wuyang County, Wushui first receives water from Guqielan and flows southward into Yuanshui River, a journey of 890 miles.
Qianling County was called Qianlu County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Chenyang County, Chenshui flows out from the San Valley and flows southward into the Yuanshui River, a journey of 150 meters!
In the time of Yijian and Qianmang, it was called Huiting County.
In Youyang County and Yiling County, Xushui River originates from Wanliang Mountain and flows westward into Yuanshui River.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Jianping County.
Henshan County, Lingyang County, Chongxian County.
Youyuan Mountain is the birthplace of Youshui River. It flows southward to Yuanling County and flows into Yuanshui River, a journey of 1,200 miles.
Lishan is the birthplace of the Lishui River. It flows eastward to Xiajun and flows into the Yuanshui River. It passes through two counties and travels 1,200 miles.
Lingling County was established in the sixth year of Emperor Wu Yuanding's reign.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was changed to Jiuyi County.
Belongs to the Jingzhou Governor's History Department.
There are twenty-one thousand and ninety-two households, ten: thirty-nine thousand, three hundred and seventy-eight persons.
There are ten counties below: Lingling County, Yanghai Mountain is the birthplace of the Xiang River, which flows northward to Ling County and flows into the Yangtze River, passing through two counties, and the journey is 2,530 miles.
There is also Lishui, heading southeast to Guangxin and flowing into Yulin, a journey of 980 miles.
Yingdao County, Jiuyi Mountain is in the south.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Jiuyinting County.
Shi'an County, Fuyi County, Yingpu County, and Duliang County are the feudal states.
Lushan is the birthplace of Zishui. It flows northeast to Yiyang and flows into Yuanshui. It passes through two counties and has a journey of 1,800 miles.
Lingdao County was called Lingling County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Quanling County is a marquis state.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Purun County. Taoyang County was called Taozhi County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Zhongwu County.
When Wang Mang was in power, his name was Zhong Huanse.
Hanzhong County was established during the Qin Dynasty.
At the time of Wang Mang, it was called Xincheng County and belonged to the Yizhou Governor's Department.
There are 111,570 households with 300,614 people.
It governs twelve counties: Xicheng County and Xunyang County. Beishan is the birthplace of Xunshui River, which flows into Mianshui River in the south.
In Nanzheng County, Chishui originates from Dry Mountain and flows into the Han River to the northeast.
Baozhong County is governed by the Duwei.
There is Hanyang Township.
In Fangling County, the Huai River originates from Huai Mountain and flows eastward to Zhonglu into the Mian River.
There is also Zhushui, which flows eastward to Zhuyang and also flows into Mianshui.
Shushan is the birthplace of Jushui. It flows eastward to Ying and flows into the Yangtze River, a journey of 700 miles.
In Anyang County, the Qiaogu River flows out to the southwest and enters the Han River to the north.
The Gushui flows out from the north and flows into the Hanshui River from the south.
Chenggu County and Mianyang County have iron officials.
Xixian County was called Xizhi County during the reign of Wang Mang.
Wuling County, Shangyong County, Changli County.
Once sleepy.
Guanghan County was established during the reign of Emperor Gao.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was renamed Judu County.
Belongs to the Yizhou Governor's History Department.
There are 667,499 households and 662,249 people.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
有工官。
县十三：梓潼，五妇山，水所出，南入涪，行五百五十里。
莽曰子同。
汁方，莽曰美信。
涪，有孱亭。
莽曰统睦。
雒，章山，雒水所出，南至新都谷入湔。
有工官。
莽曰吾雒。
绵竹，紫岩山，绵水所出，东至新都北入雒。
都尉治。
广汉，莽曰广信。
葭明，郪，新都，甸氐道，白水出徼外，东至葭明入汉。过郡一，行九百五十里。
莽曰致治。
白水，刚氐道，涪水出徼外，南至垫江入汉，过郡二，行千六十九里，阴平道。
北部都尉治。
莽曰摧虏。
蜀郡，泰置。
有小江入，并行千九百八十里。
《禹贡》桓水出蜀山西南，行羌中，入南海。
莽曰导江。
属益州。
户二十六万八千二百七十九，口百二十四万五千九百二十九。
县十五：成都，户七万六千二百五十六，有工官，郫，《禹贡》江沱在西，东入大江。
繁，广都，莽曰就都亭。
临邛，仆千水东至武阳入江，过郡二，行五百一十里。
有铁官、盐官。
莽曰监邛。
青衣，《禹贡》蒙山溪大渡水东南至南安入渽。
江原，寿阝水首受江，南至武阳入江。
莽曰邛原。
严道，邛来山，邛水所出，东入青衣。
有木官。
莽曰严治。
绵虒，玉垒山，湔水所出，东南至江阳入江，过郡三，行千八百九十里。
旄牛，鲜水出徼外，南入若水。
若水亦出徼外，南至大莋入绳，过郡二，行千六百里。
徙，湔氐道，《禹贡》山昬山在西徼外，江水所出，东南至江都入海，过郡七，行二千六百六十里。
汶江，渽水出徼外，南至南安，东入江，过郡三，行三千四十里。
江沱在西南，东入江。
translation: 
There are work officers.
There are thirteen counties below: Zitong County. The Chi River originates from Wufu Mountain and flows southward into the Fu River, a journey of 550 miles.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Zitong County.
Zhifang County was called Meixin County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Fu County, there is a pavilion.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Tongmu County.
In Luo County, the Luo River originates from Zhangshan Mountain and flows south to Xindu Valley into the Jian River.
There are work officers.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Wuluo County.
In Mianzhu County, Mianshui flows out from Ziyan Mountain and flows eastward to Xindu and north into Luoshui River.
The captain governs.
Guanghan County was called Guangxin County during the reign of Wang Mang.
From Jiaming County, Zheng County, Xindu County, and Diandidao County, the White Water flows out of the country and flows eastward to Jiaming County and flows into the Han River. It passes through one county and travels 950 miles.
Wang Ling changed his name to Dian Lao.
From Baishui County to Gangdi County, fans were sent out of the country, southward to the Dianjiang River and flowed into the Han River. They passed through two counties and traveled a thousand and sixty-nine miles. Yinpingdao County.
It is governed by the northern captain.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was renamed Bixiati.
Shu County was established during the Qin Dynasty.
There is a small river flowing in, and it runs parallel for 1,980 miles.
The Huan River in "Yu Gong" originates from the southwest of Shu Mountain, passes through Qiangzhong, and flows into the South China Sea.
When Wang Mang was in power, he was called Daojiang.
Belongs to the Yizhou Governor's History Department.
There are 268,279 households and 1,245,929 people.
There are fifteen counties below: Chengdu County, with 76,256 properties. There are work officers. In Pixian County, the Jiangtuo in "Yu Gong" is in the west and flows into the Yangtze River in the east.
Fan County and Guangdu County were called Huang Chui during the reign of Wang Mang.
Lingongkou County, Fort. Gongcheng went eastward to Aomeng Moliu and Kensi, passing through two counties and traveling 510 miles.
There are iron officials and salt officials.
During Wang Mang's reign, he called his supervisor Su.
In Qingyi County, Dadu Water, a stream on Mengshan Mountain in "Yu Gong", flows southeast to Nan'an County and flows into splashing water.
In Jiangyuan County, Haishui first receives water from the Yangtze River and flows south to Wuyang into the Yangtze River.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Qiongyuan County.
In Yandao County, Qiongshui River originates from Qionglai Mountain and flows eastward into Qingyi.
There are wooden officials.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Yanzhi County.
In Mianyan County, the Jianshui River originates from Yulei Mountain, flows southeast to the Yangtze River, passes through three counties, and travels 1,890 miles.
In Yanniu County, fresh water flows out of the country and flows southward into Ruoshui.
If the water also flows out of the country, it goes south to Dazha County and flows into Shengshui. It passes through two counties and travels 1,600 miles.
Migration County, Jiandi Dao County, Yu Gong "Mountain Mountain" is outside the western border. It is the birthplace of the river. It flows southeast to Jiangdu and flows into the sea, passing through seven counties and traveling 2,660 miles.
From Wenjiang County, the reduced water flows out of the country, south to Nan'an County, and eastward into the Yangtze River, passing through three counties and covering a distance of three thousand and forty miles.
Jiangtuo is in the southwest and flows eastward into the Yangtze River.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
广柔，蚕陵。
莽曰步昌。
犍为郡，武帝建元六年开。
莽曰西顺。
属益州。
户十万九千四百一十九，口四十八万九千四百八十六。
县十二：豦道，莽曰僰治。
江阳，武阳，有铁官，莽曰戢成。
南安，有盐官、铁官。
资中，符，温水南至鄨入水，水亦南至鄨入江。
莽曰符信。
牛鞞，南广，汾关山，符黑水所出，北至豦道入江。
有大涉水，北至符入江，过郡三，行八百四十里。
汉阳，都尉治。
山闟谷，汉水所出，东至入延。
莽曰新通。
存阝马阝，莽曰孱马阝。
朱提，山出银。
堂琅。
越巂郡，武帝元鼎六年开。
莽曰集巂。
属益州。
户六万一千二百八，口四十万八千四百五。
县十五：邛都，南山出铜。
有邛池泽。
遂久，绳水出徼外，东至豦道入江，过郡二，行千四百里。
灵关道，台登，孙水南至会无入若，行七百五十里。
定莋，出盐。
步北泽在南。
都尉治。
会无，东山出碧。
莋秦，大莋，姑复，临池泽在南。
三绛，苏示，尸二江在西北。
阑，卑水，灊街，青蛉。
临池灊在北。
仆水出徼外，东南至来惟入劳，过郡二，行千八百八十里。
有禺同山，有金马、碧鸡。
益州郡，武帝元封二年开。
莽曰就新。属益州。
户八万一千九百四十六，口五十八万四百六十三。
县二十四：滇池，大泽在西，滇池泽在西北。
有黑水祠。
双柏，同劳，铜濑，谈虏山，迷水所出，东至谈稿入温。
连然，有盐官。
俞元，池在南，桥水所出，东至毋单入温，行千九百里。
怀山出铜。
translation: 
Guangrou County, Canling County.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Buchang County.
Qianwei County was established in the sixth year of Emperor Wu's reign.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was changed to Xishun County.
Belongs to the Yizhou Governor's History Department.
There are 109,419 households and 489,486 people.
There are twelve counties under it: Podao County, which was called Fenzhi County during Wang Mang's reign.
There are iron officials in Jiangyang County and Wuyang County. During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Jiancheng County.
Nan'an County has Yanguan and Tieguan.
From Zizhong County and Fu County, Wenshui flows southward to Biejian County and flows into the Prince Consort River. The Prince Consort River also flows southward to Biejian County and flows into the Yangtze River.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Fuxin County.
Niuhuang County, Nanguang County and Fengguan Mountain are the birthplaces of Fuheishui, which flows northward to Fendao County and flows into Changliao.
There is also a large wading river, which flows north to Fu County and flows into the Yangtze River. It passes through three counties and covers a distance of 840 miles.
Hanyang County is governed by the captain.
The Han River originates from Shanhe Valley and flows eastward to Biejian County into Yanshui River.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Xintong County.
Yuyan County was called Chiyan County during the reign of Wang Mang.
In Zhuti County, silver is produced in the mountains.
Tanglang County.
Yue Junjun was established as a new county in the sixth year of Emperor Wu's Yuan Ding reign.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was renamed Jijun County.
Belongs to the Yizhou Governor's History Department.
There are 61,208 households with a population of 48,405.
There are fifteen counties below: Qiongdu County, Nanshan produces copper.
There is Qiongchi Ze.
In Suijiu County, the Shengshui River flows out of the country and flows eastward to Fendao County into the Yangtze River. It passes through two counties and travels 1,400 miles.
Lingguan Dao County, Taideng County, Sun Shui went south to Huiwu County and flowed into Ruoshui, a journey of 750 miles.
Dingzha County produces salt.
Bubeize is in the south.
It is governed by the captain.
There is no county in Hui, but Dongshan produces biqian.
Zhaqin County, Dazha County, Gufu County, and Linchize are in the south.
Sanjiang County, Sushi County, and Lujiang County are in the northwest.
Lan County, Beishui County, Rujie County, Qingxiao County.
Linchigou is in the north.
The Pushui River flows out of the country, goes southeast to Wei County, and flows into the Laoshui River. It passes through two counties and travels 880 miles.
There are Yu Tongshan, golden horses and green roosters.
Yizhou County was established as a county in the second year of Emperor Wu's Yuanfeng reign.
When Wang Mang called it Xinjun, it belonged to the Yizhou Governor's Department.
There are 81,946 households with 580,463 people.
There are twenty-four counties under it: Dianchi County, Daze is in the west, and Dianchi County is in the northwest.
There is Black Water Temple.
In Shuangbai County, Tonglao County, and Tonglai County, Mishui River originates from Tanlu Mountain and flows eastward to Tanlu County where warm water flows.
In Lianran County, there is Yanguan.
Yuyuan County, the pond water is in the south, the birthplace of Qiaoshui, and flows eastward to Wushan County where warm water flows, a journey of 1,900 miles.
Huaishan produces copper.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
收靡，南山腊谷，涂水所出，西北至越巂入绳，过郡二，行千二十里。
穀昌，秦臧，牛兰山，即水所出，南至双柏入仆，行八百二十里。
邪龙，味，昆泽，叶榆，叶榆泽在东。
贪水首受青蛉，南至邪龙入仆，行五百里。
律高，西石空山出锡，东南盢町山出银、铅。
不韦，云南，巂唐，周水首受徼外。
又有类水，西南至不韦，行六百五十里。
弄栋，东农山，毋血水出，北至三绛南入绳，行五百一十里。
比苏，贲古，北采山出锡，西羊人出银、铅，南乌山出锡。
毋棳，桥水首受桥山，东至中留入潭，过郡四，行三千一百二十里。
莽曰有棳。
胜休，河水东至毋棳入桥。
莽曰胜豦。
健伶，来唯。
从阝虫山出铜。
劳水出徼外，东至麋泠入南海，过郡三，行三千五百六十里。
牂柯郡，武帝元鼎六年开。
莽曰同亭。
有柱蒲关。
属益州。
户二万四千二百一十九，口十五万三千三百六十。
县十七：故且兰，沅水东南至益阳入江，过郡二，行二千五百三十里。
镡封，温水东至广郁入郁，过郡二，行五百六十里，不狼山，水所出，东入沅，过郡二，行七百三十里。
漏卧，平夷，同并，谈指，宛温，毋敛，刚水东至潭中入潭。
莽曰有敛，夜郎，豚水东至广郁。都尉治。
莽曰同亭。
毋单，漏江，西随。麋水西受徼外，东至麋泠入尚龙溪，过郡二，行千一百六里。
都梦，壶水东南至麋泠入尚龙溪，过郡二，行千一百六十里。
谈稿，进桑，南部都尉治。
有关。
句町。
文象水东至增食入郁。
又有卢唯水、来细水、伐水。
莽曰从化。
县十一：江州，临江。
莽曰监江。枳，阆中，彭道将池在南，彭道鱼池在西南，垫江，朐忍，容毋水所出，南入江。有橘官、盐官。
安汉，是鱼池在南。莽曰安新。
宕渠，符特山在西南。
氵朁水西南入江。
不曹水出东北徐谷，南入灊。
鱼复，江关，都尉治。
translation: 
In Shoumi County, Tushui originates from Lagu in Nanshan Mountain, flows northwest to Yuesong County, and flows into Shengshui. It passes through two counties and travels 1,020 miles.
Guchang County, Qinzang County, that is, the water originates from Niulan Mountain, flows south to Shuangbai County, and flows into Pushui, a journey of 820 miles.
Xielong County, Wei County, Kunze County, Yeyu County, and Yeyuze are in the east.
Greedy Water first receives water from Qingye, and flows southward to Xielong County into Pushui, a journey of five hundred miles.
In Lugao County, Shikong Mountain to the west produces tin, and Janding Mountain to the southeast produces silver and lead.
Buwei County, Yunnan County, Juntang County, and Zhoushui County were the first to receive water sources from abroad.
There is also Leishui, heading southwest to Buwei County, a journey of 650 miles.
In Nongdong County, the Wuxue River originates from Shunong Mountain and flows north to the south of Sanjiang County into the Shengshui River, a journey of 510 miles.
In Bisu County and Biangu County, the Caishan Mountain in the north produces tin, the Yangshan Mountain in the west produces silver and lead, and the Wushan Mountain in the south produces tin.
In Wudu County, Qiaoshui first receives water from Qiaoshan, flows eastward to Zhongliu County, and flows into Tanshui. It passes through four counties and travels 3100:20 miles.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Youduo County.
In Shengxiu County, the river flows eastward to Wuyi County and flows into Qiaoshui.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Shengjia County.
Jianling County, Laiwei County.
Copper is produced from Yingshan.
The Laoshui River flows out of the country, flows eastward to Quling County, and flows into the South China Sea. It passes through three counties and covers a distance of 1,560 miles.
Yangke County was a newly established county in the sixth year of Emperor Wu's Yuan Ding reign.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was renamed Tongting County.
There are pillars in Puguan.
Belongs to the Yizhou Governor's History Department.
There are 24,219 households with 153,360 people.
It has jurisdiction over seventeen counties: Qielan County, Yuan River flows southeast to Yiyang County and flows into the Yangtze River, flowing through two counties, with a journey of 2,530 miles.
In Tanfeng County, Wenshui flows eastward to Guangyu and flows into Yushui. It passes through two counties and travels 560 miles. In Biel County, the Bi River originates from Bulang Mountain, flows eastward into the Yuan River, passes through two counties, and travels 730 miles.
Luowo County, Pingyi County, Tongbin County, Tanzhi County, Wanwen County, Wulian County, Gangshui flows eastward to Tanzhong County and flows into Tanshui: it was called Youlian County during Wang Mang's time.
Yelang County, Donshui goes eastward to Guangyu County. It is governed by the captain.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Tongting County.
Wushan County, Lujiang County, and Xisui County, the Mi River receives water from outside the country from the west, flows eastward to Miling County and flows into Shanglong River, passing through two counties, covering a distance of 1,106 miles.
From Dumeng County, Hushui flows southeast to Miling County and flows into Shanglong River. It passes through two counties and travels 1,160 miles.
Talk about Guo County, enter Sang County, and be governed by the southern captain.
About the mouth.
Juding County.
Wenxiangshui flows eastward to Zengshi County and flows into Yushui.
There are also Luweishui, Laixishui, and Cutwater.
During the reign of Wang Mang, it was called Conghua County.
Bajun County was established as a county during the Qin Dynasty. Belongs to the Yizhou Governor's History Department.
There are 158,643 households with 708,148 people. It has eleven counties under its jurisdiction: Jiangzhou County, Linjiang County, and during Wang Mang's reign it was called Jianjiang County: Zhi County and Yanzhong County. Pengdao Jiangchi is in the south and Pengdao Yuchi is in the southwest. Dianjiang County and Quren County are the birthplaces of Rongwushui, which flows southward into the Yangtze River: Juguan and Yanguan.
Anmo County has the fish pond in the south: it was called Anxin County during Wang Mang's time.
Danqu County, Wute Mountain is in the southwest.
The dive flows southwest into the Yangtze River.
The Bucao River flows out to Xugu in the northeast and flows into Paishui in the south.
Yufu County, Jiangguan, is governed by the Duwei.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
有橘官。
充国，涪陵。
莽曰巴亭。
translation: 
There is Orange Officer.
Chongguo County, Fuling County.
During Wang Mang's reign, it was called Bating County.


