Chunk 0: 
original: 
魏尚书郎杨伟表曰： 臣览载籍，断考历数，时以纪农，月以纪事，其所由来，遐而尚矣。
乃自少昊，则玄鸟司分，颛顼、帝喾，则重黎司天；唐帝、虞舜，则羲和掌日，三代因之，则世有日官。
日官司历，则颁之诸侯，诸侯受之，则颁于境内。
夏后之世，羲和湎淫，废时乱日，则《书》载《胤徵》。
由此观之，审农时而重人事，历代然之也。
逮至周室既衰，战国横鹜，告朔之羊，废而不绍，登台之礼，灭而不遵，闰分乖次而不识，孟陬失纪而莫悟，大火犹西流，而怪蛰虫之不藏也。
是时也，天子不协时，司历不书日。诸侯不受职，日御不分朔，人事不恤，废弃农时。
translation: 
Wei Shangshulang Yang Wei said in the table: I read ancient books and investigated the role of calendar numbers in judgment. Seasons are used to organize agricultural affairs, and months are used to organize personnel affairs. They have a long history.
During the reign of Shaohao, the days were divided based on phenological judgments such as the return of swallows; during the reigns of Zhuanxu and Emperor Xue, Chongli was in charge of heaven;
The Japanese official is in charge of the calendar and promulgates it to the princes. After the princes obtain it, they will promulgate it within the territory.
During the Xia Dynasty, Xihe was addicted to wine, which caused the calendar to be disordered. The "Book" wrote this incident in the "Yin Zheng" wrapper.
From this point of view, it can be seen that people are aware of the farming season and pay attention to personnel matters, which has been the case in all ages.
Until the decline of the Zhou Dynasty and the outbreak of the Warring States Period, the sheep used for the lunar calendar were discarded and not inherited, the rituals of offering sacrifices to heaven and earth were extinct but not followed, the setting of the leap month was wrong but not aware of it, the arrangement of the first month was not in line with the season but not aware of it, the big Mars was still in the west, but it was strange that the stinging insects were not hidden.
At that time, the emperor did not coordinate the seasons, the officials in charge of the calendar did not write down the good and bad taboos of the next day, the princes did not perform their duties, the Japanese officials did not even calculate the new moon, and they were not considerate of personnel and abandoned the farming season.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
仲尼之拨乱于《春秋》，托褒贬纠正，司历失闰，则讥而书之，登台颁朔，则谓之有礼。
自此以降，暨于秦汉，乃复以孟冬为岁首，闰为后九月，中节乖错，时月纰缪。加时后天，蚀不在朔，累载相袭，久而不革也。
至武帝元封七年，始乃悟其缪焉，于是改正朔，更历数，使大才通人，更造《太初历》，校中朔所差，以正闰分，课中星得度，以考疏密，以建寅之月为正朔，以黄钟之月为历初。
其历斗分太多，后遂疏阔。
至元和二年，复用《四分历》，施而行之，至于今日，考察日蚀，率常在晦，是则斗分太多，故先密后疏而不可用也。
是以臣前以制典余日，推考天路，稽之前典，验之以蚀朔，详而精之，更建密历，则不先不后，古今中天。
以昔在唐帝，协日正时，允厘百工，咸熙庶绩也。
欲使当今国之典礼，凡百制度，皆韬合往古，郁然备足，乃改正朔，更历数，以大吕之月为岁首，以建子之月为历初。
臣以为昔在帝代，则法曰《颛顼》，曩自轩辕，则历曰《黄帝》，暨至汉之孝武，革正朔，更历数，改元曰太初，因名《太初历》。
今改元为景初，宜曰《景初历》。
臣之所建《景初历》，法数则约要，施用则近密，治之则省功，学之则易知。
虽复使研桑心算，隶首运筹，重黎司晷，羲和察景，以考天路，步验日月，究极精微，尽术数之极者，皆未能并臣如此之妙也。
是以累代历数，皆疏而不密，自黄帝以来，常改革不已。
壬辰以来，至景初元年丁已岁，积四千四十六，算上。
此元以天正建子黄钟之月为历初，元首之岁，夜半甲子朔旦冬至。
translation: 
Zhongni tried to correct chaos in the book "Spring and Autumn" and relied on praise and criticism to correct mistakes. The official in charge of the calendar set the leap month improperly, so he recorded it in the book and ridiculed it.
From then on, until the Qin and Han Dynasties, Mengdong was still used as the beginning of the year, and the leap month was the ninth month. The solar terms were disordered, the seasons and months were wrong, the correction values ​​lag behind the actual celestial phenomena, and the solar eclipse did not occur at the new moon. It has been followed for many years and has not changed for a long time.
It was not until the seventh year of Emperor Wu's Yuanfeng reign that he realized the above-mentioned error, so he changed the position of the first month, changed the basic data of the calendar, and ordered talented and knowledgeable people to create the Taichu Calendar. The month of Jianyin is used as the first month, and the month of Huangzhong is used as the beginning of the calendar.
The differences in this calendar were too great, and the errors gradually increased.
In the second year of Chenghe, the "Four Points Calendar" was used again and has been used until now. When observing solar eclipses, they often occur on dark days. This is because there are too many points, so it was first precise and then rough. It is no longer available.
I previously used my spare time in compiling codes to calculate and study the movement of celestial bodies, and to examine previous classics. I verified them with solar eclipses and new moons, and established a more precise calendar.
In the past, during the reign of Emperor Tang, by coordinating time and governing the people with integrity, all kinds of undertakings were prosperous.
In order to make the ceremonies and various systems of today's country consistent with the past and very complete and sufficient, the location of the first month was changed, and the basic data of the calendar was changed. The month of Daru was used as the beginning of the year, and the month of Jianzi was used as the initial month of the calendar.
I think that in the Zhuanxu era, the calendar was called "Zhuanxu", and in the Xuanyuan era, the calendar was called "Huangdi". When Emperor Xiaoyuan of the Han Dynasty reformed Zhengshuo and changed the calendar, the changed Yuan was called Taichu, so the calendar was named "Taichu Calendar".
Now that the Yuan Dynasty has been changed to Jingchu, the calendar should be called "Jingchu Calendar".
The method and data of the "Jingchu Calendar" I formulated are concise and concise, the application is close to precision, the study of it is efficient, and the study of it is easy to understand.
Even if I were to do mental calculations, make plans, control the sundial, observe the sun's shadow and celestial phenomena, calculate and verify the movement of the sun and the moon, and explore the subtleties and subtleties, and reach the limit of my skills, it would not be as exquisite as my calendar.
Therefore, the calendars of the past dynasties are rough and not precise. Since the Yellow Emperor, they have been constantly changing.
From Renchen Yuan Dynasty to Ding Si, the first year of Jingchu Dynasty, the accumulation was 4046 years, counting.
This epoch begins with the Huangzhong month of Tianzheng Jianzi as the beginning of the calendar. In the first year of each epoch, the winter solstice occurs at midnight on Jiazishuo day.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
元法，万一千五十八。
纪法，千八百四十三。
纪月，二万二千七百九十五。
章岁。十九。
章月，二百三十五。
章闰，七。
通数，十三万四千六百三十。
日法，四千五百五十九。
余数，九千六百七十。
周天，六十七万三千一百五十。
纪岁中，十二。
气法，十二。
没分，六万七千三百一十五。
没法，九百六十七。
月周，二万四千六百三十八。
通法，四十七。
会通，七十九万百一十。
朔望合数，六万七千三百一十五。
入交限数，七十二万二千七百九十五。
通周，十二万五千六百二十一。
周日日余，二千五百二十八。
周虚，二千三十一。
斗分，四百五十五。
甲子纪第一
纪首合朔，月在日道里。
交会差率四十一万二千九百一十九。
迟疾差率，十万三千九百四十七。
甲戌纪第二
纪首合朔，月在日道里。
交会差率，五十一万六千五百二十九。
迟疾差率，七万三千七百六十七。
甲申纪第三
translation: 
Yuanfa: Eleven thousand and fifty-eight.
Discipline: one thousand eight hundred and forty-three.
Jiyue: twenty-two thousand seven hundred and ninety-five.
Chapter age: nineteen.
Zhang Yue: Two hundred and thirty-five.
Zhang Run: Seven.
Total number: one hundred and thirty-four thousand six hundred and thirty.
Japan and France: four thousand five hundred and fifty-nine.
Remainder: nine thousand six hundred and seventy.
Zhou Tian: Six hundred and seventy-three thousand one hundred and fifty.
Middle age: twelve.
Qi method: twelve.
No points: sixty-seven thousand three hundred and fifteen.
No way: nine hundred and sixty-seven.
Month and week: twenty-four thousand six hundred and thirty-eight.
General method: forty-seven.
Huitong: seven hundred and ninety thousand, one hundred and ten.
The synodic total is sixty-seven thousand three hundred and fifteen.
Transaction limit: 722,795.
Tongzhou: one hundred and twenty-five thousand six hundred and twenty-one.
Sunday balance: two thousand five hundred and twenty-eight.
Zhou Xu: Two thousand and thirty-one.
Score: four hundred and fifty-five.
The first in the Jiazi period
At the beginning of the Lunar New Year, the moon is in the south of the ecliptic.
Intersection error rate, four hundred and twelve thousand nine hundred and nineteen.
The rate of late illness is one hundred three thousand nine hundred and forty-seven.
The Second Jiaxu Period
At the beginning of the Lunar New Year, the moon is in the south of the ecliptic.
The intersection rate is 516,529.
The rate of late illness is seventy-three thousand seven hundred and sixty-seven.
Jiashen Ji third


Chunk 3: 
original: 
纪首合朔，月在日道里。
交会差率，六十二万一百三十九。
迟疾差率，四万三千五百八十七。
甲午纪第四
纪首合朔，月在日道里。
交会差率，七十二万三千七百四十九。
迟疾差率，一万三千四百七。
甲辰纪第五
纪首合朔，月在日道里。
交会差率，三万七千二百四十九。
迟疾差率，十万八千八百四十八。
甲寅纪第六
纪首合朔，月在日道里。
交会差率，十四万八百五十九。
迟疾差率，七万八千六百六十八。
交会纪差十万三千六百一十。
求其数之所生者，置一纪积月，以通数乘之，会通去之，所去之余，纪差之数也。
以之转加前纪，则得后纪。
加之未满会通者，则纪首之岁天正合朔月在日道里；满去之，则月在日道表。
加表，满在里；加里，满在表。
迟疾纪差三万一百八十。
translation: 
At the beginning of the Lunar New Year, the moon is in the south of the ecliptic.
Intersection difference rate, six hundred and twenty thousand one hundred and thirty-nine.
The rate of late illness is 43,587.
Fourth in the Sino-Japanese War
At the beginning of the Lunar New Year, the moon is in the south of the ecliptic.
Intersection difference rate, 723,749.
The rate of late illness is 13,407.
The fifth of the Jiachen period
At the beginning of the Lunar New Year, the moon is in the south of the ecliptic.
Intersection margin, thirty-seven thousand two hundred and forty-nine.
The rate of late illness is one hundred and eighty-eight thousand eight hundred and forty-eight.
The sixth Jiayin era
At the beginning of the Lunar New Year, the moon is in the south of the ecliptic.
Intersection error rate, one hundred four hundred, eight hundred and fifty-nine.
The rate of late illness is seventy-eight thousand six hundred and sixty-eight.
The rendezvous discrepancy is one hundred three thousand six hundred and ten.
The calculation method of this data is to use the accumulated moon of one period, 22,795, multiplied by the number of 134,630, and continuously subtract the number of 790,110. The number obtained is less than the number of Huitong, which is the intersection difference.
Add the intersection difference rate of the previous period to the intersection difference rate, and the result is the intersection difference rate of the later period.
If the intersection difference rate obtained after adding the intersection difference is still less than that of Huitong, then the moon will be in the south of the ecliptic when the sky is at the same time in the first year of the calendar year; if it is greater than that of Huitong, minus it, the moon will be in the north of the ecliptic.
If it keeps adding up until it is greater than or equal to the conjunction, the moon is in the south of the ecliptic; if it keeps adding up until it is greater than or equal to the conjunction, the moon is in the north of the ecliptic.
The Jiji difference is three lettuce and one hundred and eighty.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
求其数之所生者，置一纪积月，以通数乘之，通周去之，余以减通周，所减之余，纪差之数也。
以之转减前纪，则得后纪。
不足减者，加通周。
求次元纪差率，转减前元甲寅纪差率，余则次元甲子纪差率也。
求次纪，如上法也。
推朔积月术曰：置壬辰元以来，尽所求年，外所求，以纪法除之，所得算外，所入纪第也，余则入纪年数也。
以章月乘之，如章岁而一，为积月，不尽为闰余。
闰余十二以上，其年有闰。
闰月以无中气为正。
推朔术曰：以通数乘积月，为朔积分。
如日法而一，为积日，不尽为小余。
以六十去积日，余为大余。
translation: 
The calculation method of this data is to use the accumulated moon of one period, 22,795, multiplied by the total number of 134,630, and continuously subtract the total number of 125,621. The remaining part that is less than the total number of 95,441 is subtracted by the total number, and the result is the chronic period difference.
Subtract the illness rate from the illness rate in the previous century to get the illness rate in the next era.
If it is not enough to reduce it, add it and then reduce it.
Find the epoch difference rate of the dimension: subtract the epoch difference from the Jiayin era difference rate of the BC Yuan Dynasty, and the result is the Jiazi epoch difference rate of the dimension.
Find the sub-discipline rate in the same way as before.
The method of deducing the accumulated month: subtract one from the accumulated years from Renchen in the Yuan Dynasty to the year you want, divide it by Jifa one thousand eight hundred and forty-three, and calculate the quotient to get the Jifu, and the remainder is the number of Jifa years.
Multiply the two hundred and thirty-five chapter months by the number of years in the calendar, and then divide it by the nineteenth year of the chapter. The resulting calculation is the accumulated months, and the remainder is the leap remainder.
If there are more than 12 leap months, there will be a leap month in that year.
The determination of the leap month shall be based on the month without Zhongqi.
The method of deducing the new moon is: multiply the Tongfu one hundred and thirty-four thousand six hundred and thirty by the accumulated month to get the new moon integral.
Divided by the daily method of 4,559, the resulting business is called accumulation, and the remainder is a small remainder.
The accumulated days are subtracted by sixty continuously, and the remaining part less than sixty is a large surplus.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
大余命以纪，算外，所求年天正十一月朔日也。
求次月，加大余二十九，小余二千四百一十九，小余满日法从大余，命如前，次月朔日也。
小余二千一百四十以上，其月大也。
推弦望，加朔大余七，小余千七百四十四，小分一，小分满二从小余，小余满日法从大余，大余满六十去之，余命以纪，算外，上弦日也。
又加，得望、下弦、后月朔。
其月蚀望者，定小余如在中节者定小余如所近中节间限数、限数以下者，算上为日。
望在中节前后各四日以还者，视限数；望在中节前后各五日以上者，视间限。
推二十四气术曰：置所入纪年，外所求，以余数乘之，满纪法为大余，不尽为小余。
translation: 
Dayu is calculated based on his chronological stem and branch. If not, it is the first day of the eleventh month of the desired year.
Find the day of the next New Moon: On the basis of the previous month, add 29 Days and 2419 Days. If you add 4559 Days and 4559 Days, it will be converted into Dayu. The naming method is the same as before, and the result is the day of the next New Moon.
If Xiaoyu is above 2140, he will be one month old.
Calculating the string and looking at the sun: On the basis of the new day, add the remaining seven, the small remainder is 1,744, and the minor fraction is one. If the minor fraction reaches two, it will turn into the minor remainder. If the minor remainder is full of two, it will turn into the minor remainder. If the minor remainder is full of 4559, it will turn into the greater remainder. If the greater remainder reaches sixty, it will be reduced. The remaining part less than sixty will be counted from the stem and branch where it is located. If it is not counted, it is the first string day.
Using the same method and adding them continuously, you can get the day of the first month, the last quarter, and the first day of the second lunar month in sequence.
If there is a lunar eclipse at the time of looking at it, and if Xiao Yu is in the middle section, then it will be considered to be below the limit or number of the nearest middle Qi or solar term, and then it will be counted to determine the day.
It is expected to be within four days before and after the middle Qi or solar term, depending on the limit. It is expected to be more than five days before or after the middle Qi or solar term, depending on the time limit.
The method of deriving the twenty-four qi and solar terms: subtract one from the year of entry, multiply by the remainder nine thousand six hundred and seventy, divide it by the number one thousand eight hundred and forty-three, the quotient obtained is the big remainder, and the remainder is the small remainder.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
大余满六十去之，余命以纪，算外，天正十一月冬至日也。
求次气，加大余十五，小余四百二，小分十一，小分满气法从小余，小余满纪法从大余，命如前，次气日也。
推闰月术曰：以闰余减章岁，余以岁中乘之，满章闰得一月，余满半法以上，亦得一月。
数从天正十一月起，算外，闰月也。
闰有进退，以无中气御之。
大雪十一月节限数千二百四十二间限千二百四十八
冬至十一月中限数千二百五十四间限千二百四十五
小寒十二月节限数千二百三十五间限千二百二十四
大寒十二月中限数千二百一十三间限千一百九十二
立春正月节限数千一百七十二间限千一百四十七
雨水正月中限数千一百二十二间限千九十三
translation: 
If the remaining part is less than sixty, then reduce it, and the remaining part less than sixty is calculated from the stem and branch of the year. If not calculated, the winter solstice in the eleventh month of Tianzheng is obtained.
To find the secondary qi: On the basis of the previous qi, add the remaining 15, the small 402, and the small 11. If the small 12 is full of qi, it will turn into the small yu, and if the small yu is full, it will turn into the big yu. The naming method is the same as before, and the result is the day of the second qi.
The method to calculate the leap month: subtract the remainder from the nineteenth year of the chapter, multiply by the twelveth year of the year, and multiply the product by the leap seven to get one month; if the remaining part that is less than the leap month is more than 3.5, it will also be one month.
The monthly payment obtained in this way is calculated from the eleventh month of Tianzheng. If not calculated, a leap month will be obtained.
If there is a discrepancy in the leap month setting, the criterion will be whether there is a middle qi or not.
Heavy snow in November, limited to thousands, 242, limited to 1,248
The winter solstice in November is limited to thousands, two hundred and fifty-four, and the limit is one thousand, two hundred and forty-five.
The Xiaohan Festival in December is limited to thousands, 235, and the period is limited to 1,224
The limit in December of the Great Cold is thousands, two hundred and thirteen, and the limit is one thousand, one hundred and ninety-two.
The first month of spring is limited to thousands, one hundred and seventy-two, and the period is limited to one thousand, one hundred and forty-seven.
The limit of rain in the first month is thousands, one hundred and twenty-two, and the limit is thousand and ninety-three.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
惊蛰二月节限数千六十五间限千三十六
春分二月中限数千八间限九百七十九
清明三月节限数九百五十一间限九百二十五
谷雨三月中限数九百间限八百七十九
立夏四月节限数八百五十七间限八百四十
小满四月中限数八百二十三间限八百一十二
芒种五月节限数八百间限七百九十九
夏至五月中限数七百九十八间限八百一
小暑六月节限数八百五间限八百一十五
大暑六月中限数八百二十五间限八百四十二
立秋七月节限数八百五十九间限八百八十三
处暑七月中限数九百七间限九百三十五
白露八月节限数九百六十二间限九百九十二
秋分八月中限数千二十一间限千五十一
寒露九月节限数千八十间即千一百七
霜降九月中限数千一百三十三间限千一百五十七
立冬十月节限数千一百八十一间限千一百九十八
小雪十月中限数千二百一十五间限千二百二十九
translation: 
Jingzhe February Festival is limited to thousands and sixty-five, and the period is limited to thousand and thirty-six
The spring equinox in February is limited to thousands and eight and is limited to nine hundred and seventy-nine.
The limit for the Qingming Festival in March is 951 and the limit is 925.
Grain Rain in March, the limit is 900 and the limit is 879
The Beginning of Summer April Festival has a limit of 857 and a limit of 840
Xiaoman’s April limit is 823 and the limit is 812
The May Festival of Ear Grain has a limit of 800 and a limit of 799
During the summer solstice and in May, the limit is 798 and the limit is 811.
During the Xiaoshu June Festival, the number is limited to 850 and the number is limited to 815.
The limit in June is 825 and the limit is 842
The beginning of autumn, the seventh month, has a limit of 859 and a limit of 883
In the middle of July, the limit is nine hundred and seven and the limit is nine hundred and thirty-five.
The Bailu Festival in August has a limit of 962 and a limit of 992
Autumn Equinox, mid-August, limited to thousands and twenty-one, limited to thousand and fifty-one
The Cold Dew Festival in September is limited to thousands and eighty rooms, which is one thousand one hundred and seventeen
Frost's fall, mid-September, limited to thousands, one hundred and thirty-three, limited to one thousand, one hundred and fifty-seven
The beginning of winter in October is limited to thousands, one hundred and eighty-one, and one room is limited to one thousand, one hundred and ninety-eight.
Xiaoxue is limited to thousands, two hundred and fifteen in October and is limited to one thousand, two hundred and twenty-nine.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
推没灭术曰：因冬至积日有小余者，加积一，以没分乘之，以没法除之，所得为大余，不尽为小余。
大余满六十去之，余命以纪，算外，即去年冬至后日也。
求次没，加大余六十九，小余五百九十二，小余满没法得一，从大余，命如前。
小余尽，为灭也。
推五行用事日：立春、立夏、立秋、立冬者，即木、火、金、水始用事日也。
各减其大余十八，小余四百八十三，小分六，余命以纪，算外，各四立之前，土用事日也。
大余不足减者，加六十；小余不足者，减大余一，加纪法；小分不足减者，减小余一，加气法。
推卦用事日：因冬至大余，六其小余，即《坎卦》用事日也。
加小余万九十一，满元法从大余，即《中孚》用事日也。
求次卦，各加大余六，小余九百六十七。
其四正各因其中日，六其小余。
translation: 
The method of deducting and subtracting: follow the accumulated days of the winter solstice. If there is a small remainder, add one, multiply by 67,315, divide by 967, the resulting quotient will be a large remainder, and the remainder will be a small remainder.
If the remaining part is less than sixty, then reduce it. The remaining part less than sixty is calculated from the root and branch of the year. If not calculated, it is calculated as the day after the last winter solstice.
Ask for times: add the big Yu to sixty-nine, the small Yu to five hundred and ninety-two, the small Yu to the full nine hundred and sixty-seven to get one, add the big Yu, and the naming method is as before.
When the little remainder is gone, it is destroyed.
The five elements are recommended to be used as days: the beginning of spring, the beginning of summer, the beginning of autumn, and the beginning of winter, that is, wood, fire, metal, and water start to be used as days.
On the basis of the above four solar terms, subtract the major remainder eighteen, the minor remainder four hundred and eighty-three, and the minor remainder six, and the remainder is calculated from the root and branch of the year.
If a large remainder is insufficient, subtract sixty; if a small remainder is insufficient, subtract one, and add one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three; if a small remainder is insufficient, subtract one, add twelve.
推卦用事日：沿用冬至大余，小余乘以六，以之确定的时间即《坎卦》用事日。
Add Xiaoyu 1091, and Man Yuanfa 1158 is transformed into Dayu, which is the day of "Zhongfu".
Ask for the next hexagram: Each will add six more for the big one and nine hundred and sixty-seven for the small one.
The four positives are determined by using the large remainder of China and Japan, and the small remainder multiplied by six.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
推日度术曰：以纪法朔积日，满周天去之，余以纪法除之，所得为度，不尽为分。
命度从牛前五起，宿次除之，不满宿，则天正十一月朔夜半日所在度及分也。
求次日，日加一度，分不加，经斗除斗分，分少，退一度。
推月度术曰：以月周乘朔积日，满周天去之，余以纪法除之，所得为度，不尽为分，命如上法，则天正十一月朔夜半月所在度及分也。
求次月，小月加度二十二，分八百六，大月又加一日，度十三，分六百七十九；分满纪法得一度，则并月朔夜半月所在度分及也。
其冬下旬，月在张、心署之。
推合朔度术曰：以章岁乘朔小余，满通法为大分，不尽为小分。
translation: 
The method of calculating the degree of the sun's position is as follows: Multiply 1,843 Jifa by the lunar day, and remove the full 673,150 days. The remainder that is less than 673,150 days is divided by 1,843 Jifa.
The degrees and minutes are calculated from the five degrees before the Ox constellation, and are removed when one is full. When the remaining degrees are not equal to the size of the constellation, this is the degree and minute of the constellation where the sun is located at midnight on the first day of the eleventh month of Tianzheng.
Find the next day: add one degree every day, but do not add points. When passing through the Dou Su, remove the Dou Su points. If the points are too small to be reduced, reduce the degree by one and turn it into points, and then subtract it.
The method of calculating the degree of the moon's position is as follows: Multiply the two days of the month, 14,638, by the lunar day, divide the full lunar day by 673,150, and divide the remaining part that is less than the full lunar day by 1,843. The obtained quotient is the degree, and the remainder is the cent. The naming method is the same as when calculating the sun's zodiac degree, and we can obtain the zodiac degree and minutes of the half moon on the lunar night of the 11th day of the lunar month.
Find the next month: add twenty-two degrees to the small month, and it is divided into eight hundred and six; add one day to the big month, and add thirteen degrees, and it is divided into six hundred and seventy-nine; the full points are converted into degrees of one thousand eight hundred and forty-three, and the final result is the degree and minute of the half-moon on the first day of the next month.
In late winter, the moon marks the days of Zhang Su and Xin Su.
The method of deducing the degree of Shuo's position: Multiply Zhang Sui Nineteen by Shuo Xiaoyu, and the result of forty-seven full Tongfa is converted into a large part, and the remaining part that is not enough for Tongfa is a small part.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
以大分从朔夜半日度分，分满纪法从度，命如前，则天正十一月合朔日月所共合度也。
求次月，加度二十九，大分九百七十七，小分四十二，小分满通法从大分，大分满纪法从度，经斗除其分，则次月合朔日月所共合度也。
推弦望日所在度：加合朔度七，大分七百五，小分十，微分一，微分满二从小分，小分满通法从大分，大分满纪法从度，命如前，则上弦日所在度也。
又加，得望，下弦、后月合也。
推弦望月所在度：加合朔度九十八，大分千二百七十九，小分三十四，数满命如前，即上弦月所在度也。
又加，得望，下弦、后月合也。
translation: 
Taking the Great Equinox plus the mid-night solar degree minute of the new moon, the full rule method is 1,843 into the incoming degree. The starting naming method is as before, and we can get the zodiac degree minutes when the sun and the moon are combined in the eleventh month of Tianzheng.
Find the next month; add twenty-nine degrees to the previous month, the great minute is 977, the minor minute is forty-two, the minor minute is fully divided into forty-seven, and the great minute is fully divided into 1,843 into degrees. When passing through the constellations, remove the constellation points, and the result is the constellation degree score when the sun and moon are combined in the next month.
Calculation of the degree and minute of the sun's position at the time of bending and looking: Add seven degrees to the degree and minute of the sun at the time of the New Moon, seven hundred and five for the great minute, ten for the minor minute, and one for the differential. The full two of the differential are converted into the minor minute, the full of the minor minute is forty-seven, which is converted into the great minute, and the full of the great minute is converted into the degree of one thousand eight hundred and forty-three. The starting naming method is the same as before, and then the degree and minute of the sun's position at the time of waxing can be obtained.
By adding continuously in the same way, you can get the degrees and minutes of the sun's position in the first quarter, last quarter, and later New Moon.
Calculation of the moon's nakshatra degree and minute at the time of inflection and gazing: Add ninety-eight degrees to the moon's degree and minute at the synodic time, add one thousand, two hundred and seventy-nine degrees to the grand minute, thirty-four minor minutes, convert minor to great minute, major to major degrees, and calculate the nakshatra degree and minute in the same way as before, and obtain the nakshatra degree and minute of the moon's position at waxing hour.
By adding continuously in the same way, you can get the degrees and minutes of the moon's zodiac sign in turn, including first quarter, last quarter, and last new moon.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
推日月昏明度术曰：日以纪法，月以月周，乘所近节气夜漏，二百而一，为明分。
日以减纪法，月以减月周，余为昏分。
各以分加夜半，如法为度。
推合朔交会月蚀术曰：置所入纪朔积分，以所入纪下交会差率之数加之，以会通去之，余则所求年天正十一月合朔去交度分也。
以通数加之，满会通去之，余则次月合朔去交度分也。
以朔望合数各加其月合朔去交度分，满会通去之，余则各其月望去交度分也。
朔望去交分，如朔望合数以下，入交限数以上者，朔则交会，望则月蚀。
translation: 
The method of calculating the twilight and brightness points of the sun and the moon: Calculate the sun's twilight and twilight points by calculating one thousand eight hundred and forty-three, and the moon's two days of the month by the lunar calendar number fourteen thousand six hundred and thirty-eight.
The sun is calculated according to the discipline method, and the moon is calculated by subtracting the respective clear equinoxes from the monthly cycle, and the result is the respective twilight equinox.
Add the respective twilight points and dusk points to the respective midnight points, and convert the points into degrees according to the full discipline method, and you can get the celestial degree points where the sun and moon are at dusk and bright time.
The method of deducing the conjunction and lunar eclipse: take the lunar eclipse points of the period in which they are entered, add the intersection difference rate of the period in which they are located, and remove the 790,110 lunar eclipses. The remainder is the de-conjunction points when Tianzheng and the lunar eclipse are conjunct in November of the desired year.
With the addition of the Tong 134,630, the Manhui Tong is removed, and the remainder is the denomination at the conjunction of the new moon in the next month.
The sum of sixty-seven thousand three hundred and fifteen is added to the sum of sixty-seven thousand three hundred and fifteen when the new moon is combined with the new moon, and the de-conjunction points of the full moon are removed.
If the total number of the synodic and lunar phases is less than 67,315, or the total number of the synodic and lunar phases is more than 72, 2,795, and the lunar eclipse meets, it will be a lunar eclipse.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
推合朔交会月蚀月在日道表里术曰：置所入纪朔积分，以所入纪下交会差率之数加之，倍会通去之，余不满会通者，纪首表，天正合朔月在表；纪首里，天正合朔月在里。
满会通去之，表满在里，里满在表。求次月，以通数加之，满会通去之，加里满在表，加表满在里。
先交会后月蚀者，朔在表则望在表，朔在裹则望在里。先月蚀后交会者，看蚀月朔在里则望在表，朔在表则望在里。
交会月蚀如朔望合数以下，则前交后会；如入交限数以上，则前会后交。
其前交后会近于限数者，则豫伺之；前会后交近于限数者，则后伺之。
translation: 
The method of deducing that the moon is in the north and south of the ecliptic when the conjunction and lunar eclipse meet is as follows: take the integral of the lunar cycle in the era, add the intersection difference rate in that era, and remove twice the conjunction. If the remainder is not equal to the conjunction, then the moon is in the north of the ecliptic at the beginning of the epoch, and the moon is also in the ecliptic when the celestial conjunction and lunar eclipse; the moon is in the south of the ecliptic at the beginning of the epoch, and the moon is also in the south of the ecliptic when the celestial conjunction and lunar eclipse occur.
The remaining ones are eliminated if the moon is in the north of the ecliptic at the beginning of the lunar calendar, then the moon is in the south of the ecliptic when the celestial zodiac is in conjunction with the lunar new moon;
Find the following month: Take the Tongfu 134,630 and add the Moon and New Moon to the intersection points, and remove the full moon and Tongfu. If the moon is in the south of the ecliptic, and the moon is in the south of the ecliptic after adding Tongfu, the moon will be in the north of the ecliptic. If it is not in conjunction with the moon, it will still be in the south of the ecliptic. If the conjunction occurs first and then the lunar eclipse occurs, if the moon is north of the ecliptic when you look at it during the conjunction and lunar cycle, the moon will also be on the north of the ecliptic when you look at it.
If you see the lunar eclipse first and then the conjunction, if you see the lunar eclipse and the moon is in the south of the ecliptic when the moon is conjunct, look at the moon in the north of the ecliptic, and when it is conjunct and the moon is in the north of the ecliptic, look at the moon in the south of the ecliptic. If the synodic lunar eclipse is below the synodic sum of 67,315, the synodic eclipse will be in front and behind; if the synodic lunar eclipse is above 722,795, the synodic lunar eclipse will be in front and behind.
In the case of a first-hand meeting and a later meeting, when the number is close to the limit, you should wait in the previous month; in the case of a former meeting and a later meeting, when the number is close to the limit, you should wait in the next month.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
求去交度术曰：其前交后会者，今去交度分如日法而一，所得则却交度分也。
其前会后交者，以去交度分减会通，余如日法而一，所得则前去交度也。
余皆度分也。
去交度十五以上，虽交不蚀也，十以下是蚀，十以上，亏蚀微少，光晷相及而已。
亏之多少，以十五为法。
求日蚀亏起角术曰：其月在外道，先交后会者，亏蚀西南角起；先会后交者，亏蚀东南角起。
其月在内道，先交后会者，亏蚀西北角起；先会后交者，亏蚀东北角起。
亏蚀分多少，如上以十五为法。
会交中者，蚀尽。
月蚀在日之冲，亏角与上反也。
月行迟疾度损益率盈缩积分月行分
一日十四度十四分益二十六盈初二百八十
translation: 
The method of finding the degree of deintersection: If the intersection is in front and behind, divide the degree of deintersection by the day method 4559, and the result is the degree of deintersection after the point of intersection.
If the meeting is in the front and the meeting is in the back, the meeting point is 790,110 minus the de-intersection point, and the remainder is divided by the day method 4559. The result is the intersection point in front of the intersection.
The remainders are all degrees and minutes.
If the degree of intercourse is above fifteen, there will be intercourse but no eclipse will occur. If it is below ten, eclipse will definitely occur. If it is above ten, eclipse will be very small, just light and shadow.
The specific amount of food loss is expressed by using fifteen as the denominator.
Method to find the azimuth angle of solar eclipse and waning: If the moon is in the outer path, the conjunction is first and the solar eclipse is waning from the southwest corner; the conjunction is first and waning, and the solar eclipse is waning from the southeast corner.
If the moon is in the inner path, the conjunction is first and then later, and the solar eclipse starts and wanes from the northwest corner; if the moon is first and the conjunction is behind, the solar eclipse starts and wanes from the northeast corner.
The amount of loss caused by a solar eclipse is expressed by using fifteen as the denominator, just like a lunar eclipse.
When the sun and moon meet in the intersection, they will eat up everything.
During a lunar eclipse, the moon is in a position opposite to the sun, and the azimuth angle of waxing and waning is opposite to that above.
Monthly progress profit and loss rate profit and loss points monthly progress points
One day, fourteen degrees, fourteen points, gain twenty-six, gain two hundred and eighty.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
二日十四度十一分益二十三盈积分二百七十七
三日十四度八分益二十盈积分二百七十四
四日十四度五分益十七盈积分二百七十一
五日十四度一分益十三盈积分二百六十七
六日十三度十四分益七盈积分二百六十一
七日十三度七分损盈积分二百五十四
八日十三度一分损六盈积分二百四十八
九日十二度十六分损十盈积分二百四十四
十日十二度十三分损十三盈积分二百四十一
十一日十二度十一分损十五盈积分二百三十九
十二日十二度八分损十八盈积分二百三十六
十三日十二度五分损二十一盈积分二百三十三
十四日十二度三分损二十三盈积分二百三十一
十五日十二度五分益二十一缩初二百三十三
十六日十二度七分益十九缩积分二百三十五
十七日十二度九分益十七缩积分二百三十七
十八日十二度十二分益十四缩积分二百四十
十九日十二度十五分益十一缩积分二百四十三
二十日十二度十八分益八缩积分二百四十六
二十一日十三度三分益四缩积分二百五十
二十二日十三度七分损缩积分二百五十四
二十三日十三度十二分损五缩积分二百五十九
二十四日十三度十八分损十一缩积分二百六十五
二十五日十四度五分损十七缩积分二百七十一
二十六日十四度十一分损二十三缩积分二百七十七
二十七日十四度十二分损二十四缩积分二百七十八
周日十四度十三分有小分六百二十六分损二十五有小分六百二十六
缩积分二百七十九
有小分六百二十六
translation: 
Two days, fourteen degrees, eleven points, gain twenty-three points, gain points two hundred and seventy-seven.
Three days, fourteen degrees, eight points, gain twenty points, two hundred and seventy-four points
Fourteen degrees on the fourth day, five points, seventeen points, two hundred and seventy-one points
Five days, fourteen degrees, one point, thirteen points, two hundred and sixty-seven points
Six days, thirteen degrees, fourteen points, gain seven points, two hundred and sixty-one points
Seven days, thirteen degrees, seven points, loss and profit points, two hundred and fifty-four
Eight days and thirteen degrees, one point loss, six profit points, 248 points
Nine days, twelve degrees, sixteen points, loss, ten points, profit, two hundred and forty-four
Ten days, twelve degrees, thirteen points, loss, thirteen points, gain, two hundred and forty-one points
Eleven days, twelve degrees, eleven points, loss fifteen, profit points two hundred and thirty-nine
On the twelfth day, twelve degrees and eight points, loss of eighteen points, profit of two hundred and thirty-six points
On the 13th, 12 degrees, 5 points, loss, 21 points, gain, 233 points
On the 14th, twelve degrees, three points, loss, twenty-three points, gain, two hundred and thirty-one points
On the 15th, twelve degrees and five minutes, twenty-one, two hundred and thirty-three
Sixteen days, twelve degrees, seven points, nineteen points, reduced points, two hundred and thirty-five
Seventeenth day, twelve degrees, nine points, seventeen points, reduced integral, two hundred and thirty-seven
On the 18th, twelve degrees, twelve points, fourteen points, reduced points two hundred and forty
Nineteenth day, twelve degrees and fifteen points, plus eleven points, reducing the points to two hundred and forty-three.
On the 20th, twelve degrees, eighteen points, eight points, reduced points, two hundred and forty-six
Twenty-one days, thirteen degrees, three points, four points, two hundred and fifty points
On the 22nd, thirteen degrees and seven points, a loss of two hundred and fifty-four points
Twenty-three days, thirteen degrees, twelve points, five points lost, two hundred and fifty-nine points reduced
Twenty-fourth day, thirteen degrees, eighteen points, loss of eleven points, reduced points by two hundred and sixty-five
On the twenty-fifth day, fourteen degrees and five points, a loss of seventeen points and a reduction of two hundred and seventy-one points.
Twenty-sixth day, fourteen degrees, eleven points, loss of twenty-three points, reduction of points, two hundred and seventy-seven
Twenty-seven days, fourteen degrees, twelve points, loss of twenty-four points, two hundred and seventy-eight points
Sunday fourteen degrees thirteen has a minor score of 626. Loss of 25 has a minor score of 626.
Reduced integral two hundred and seventy-nine
There are six hundred and twenty-six points


Chunk 15: 
original: 
推合朔交会月蚀入迟疾历术曰：置所入纪朔积分，以所入纪下迟疾差率数加之，以通周去之，余满日法得一日，不尽为日余，命日算外，则所求年天正十一月合朔入历日也。
求次月，加一日，日余四千四百五十。
求望，加十四日，日余三千四百八十九。
日余满日法成日，日满二十七去之。
又除余如周日余，日余不足除者，减一日，加周虚。
推合朔交会月蚀定大小余：以入历日余乘所入历损益率，以损益盈缩积分，为定积分。
以章岁减所入历月行分，余以除之，所得以盈减缩加本小余。
加之满日法者，交会加时在后日；减之不足者，交会加时在前日。
月蚀者，随定大小余为日加时。
入历在周日者，以周日日余乘缩积分，为定积分。
以损率乘入历日余，又以周日日余乘之，以周日日度小分并之，以损定积分，余为后定积分。
以章岁减周日月行分，余以周日日余乘之，以周日度小分并之，以除后定积分，所得以加本小余，如上法。
推加时：以十二乘定小余，满日法得一辰，数从子起，算外，则朔望加时所在辰也。
有余不尽者四之，如日法而一为少，二为半，三为太。
又有余者三之，如日法而一为强，半法以上排成之，不满半法废弃之。
以强并少为少强，并半为半强，并太为太强。
translation: 
The method of deducing the combination of the lunar eclipse and the lunar eclipse into the lunar calendar: Take the integral of the lunar eclipse in the desired year, add the lunar eclipse difference in the chronological period, remove the total number of 125,621, and divide the remaining part that is not the total number of lunar eclipses by 4,559 to get the number of days in the calendar.
Find the next month: add one day, and the remainder is four thousand four hundred and fifty.
Ask for help, add fourteen days, and the remaining three stems will be four hundred and eighty-nine.
When the day is full, it means that Dharma 4559 will be transformed into heaven, and the number of days will be reduced to twenty-seven.
Then subtract the surplus of Sunday from the surplus of 2,528 days. If the surplus of days is insufficient, subtract one from the number of days, and the number of days will be strengthened to 2,031.
Calculation of fixed points for the combined lunar eclipse of the new moon: Multiply the surplus of the entered calendar by the corresponding profit and loss rate of the entered calendar to increase or decrease the profit or loss points, and the result is a fixed point.
Subtract the chapter year and nineteen from the month corresponding to the entered calendar day, and divide the difference by the definite integral. If the result is a surplus integral, subtract the Pingshuo minor remainder. If the result is a reduced integral, add the Pingshuo minor remainder, and it will be the definite minor remainder.
After the reduction, if the Xiaoyu is full and the day is 4559, the intersection will be added on the next day; if the Pingshuo Xiaoyu is insufficient to reduce the surplus points, the intersection will be added on the previous day.
For lunar eclipses, the overtime is also determined by the large and small remainders.
If the calendar day falls on a weekday, multiply the reduced integral by the remaining 2528 on the Sunday, and the result will be the definite integral.
Multiply the profit and loss rate by the calendar day surplus, then multiply by the Sunday day surplus of 2528, add the weekday fraction of 626, subtract it with the definite integral, and the remainder is the post-definite integral.
Subtract chapter years and nineteen from the week and month row points, multiply by the week day and day remainder, add the week day fraction, divide it by the final integral, and add the basic remainder to the resulting remainder, and you can get the definite remainder.
The remaining method is the same as above. When pushing and adding time: Multiply twelve by the small remainder, and the full day is four thousand five hundred and fifty-nine to get one hour. The number of hours obtained is calculated from Zi hour. If there is no calculation, it is the hour where the added time of the new moon is.
If there is a remainder, multiply it by four and divide it by four thousand five hundred and fifty-nine. If you get one, it is less, if you get two, it is half, and if you get three, it is too much.
If there is any remainder, multiply it by three and divide it by the daily method of 4559. If it is one, it is strong. If it is more than half of 4559, it is one and it is strong. If it is less than half of 4559, it is discarded.
Combining strong with less will become less strong, combining strong with half will become half strong, and combining strong with too much will become too strong.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
得二强者为少弱，以之并少为半弱，以之并半为太弱，以之并太为一辰弱。
以所在辰命之，则各得其少、太、半及强，弱也。
其月蚀望在中节前后四日以还者，视限数；在中节前后五日以上者，视间限。
定小余如间限、限数以下者，以算上为日。
斗二十六分四百五十五牛八女十二虚十危十七室十六壁九
北方九十八度分四百五十五
奎十六娄十二胃十四昴十一毕十六觜二参九
西方八十度
井三十三鬼四柳十五星七张十八翼十八轸十七
南方百十二度
角十二亢九氐十五房五心五尾十八箕十一
东方七十五度
表略
右中节二十四气，如术求之，得冬至十一月中也。
加之得次月节，加节得其月中。
translation: 
If there are two strong ones, it is called Shao Weak. The combination of Shao Weak and Shao is called Half Weak. The combination of Shao Weak and Half is called Too Weak. The combination of Shao Weak and Tai Chen is called Yichen Weak.
They are named according to the Chen they are in, and each one has the Shao, Tai, Ban, and its strength and weakness of that Chen.
If the lunar eclipse is within four days before or after the middle Qi or solar term, look at the limited number; if it is more than five days before or after the middle Qi or solar term, look at the limited number.
If the small remainder is below the limit or the limit, it will be counted as the day of the lunar eclipse.
Fight twenty-six points, four hundred and fifty-five, cattle, eight women, twelve virtual, ten dangerous, seventeen rooms, sixteen walls, nine
Ninety-eight degrees north four hundred and fifty-five
Kui Sixteen Lou Twelve Stomach Fourteen Pleiades Eleven Bi Sixteen Gou Two Ginseng Nine
Western Eighty Degrees
Thirty-three wells, four willows, fifteen stars, seventeen wings, eighteen wings and seventeen
One hundred and twelve degrees south
Twelve horns, nine horns, fifteen chambers, five hearts, five tails, eighteen baskets, eleven
Seventy-five degrees east
Brief table
There are a total of twenty-four solar terms in total. According to the calculation, we can get the data related to the mid-qi period in November of each winter solstice.
On this basis, the solar terms data of the next month are added, and the solar terms are added to obtain the mid-month energy.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
中星以日所在为正，置所求年二十四气小余，四之，如法得一为少；不尽少，三之，如法为强；所得以减其节气昏明中星各定。
推五星术
五星者，木曰岁星，火曰荧惑星，土曰填星，金曰太白星，水曰辰星。
凡五星之行，有迟有疾，有留有逆。
曩自开辟，清浊始分，则日月五星聚于星纪。
发自星纪，并而行天，迟疾留逆，互相逮及。
星与日会，同宿共度，则谓之合。
从合至合之日，则谓之终。
各一以终之日与一岁之日通分相约，终而率之，岁数岁则谓之合终岁数，岁终则谓之合终合数。
二率既定，则法数生焉。
以章岁乘合数，为合月法。
以纪法乘合数，为日度法。以章月乘岁数，为合月分；如合月法为合月数，合月之余为月余。
translation: 
The determination of the middle star is based on the location of the sun. Multiply the small remainder of the twenty-four solar terms of the desired year by four and divide it by the law of 4559. If you get one, it is less; if it is less than the minimum, multiply by three and divide it by the law. If you subtract the solar terms from the result, each dim star can be determined.
Push the Five Star Technique:
The five major planets are Jupiter, also known as the Year Star, Mars, also known as the Yinghuo Planet, Saturn, also known as the Zhenxing, Venus, also known as the Taibai Star, and Mercury, also known as the Chenxing.
The movement of the five planets may be fast or slow, or may be reversed.
When the day and the earth were opened, and the clear and the turbid had just separated, the sun, the moon, and the five planets gathered together in the star era.
Starting from the star era, they move in the sky, some are fast and some are slow, some are delayed and some are reversed, catching up with each other.
When a planet meets the sun and is in the same celestial body, it is called a conjunction.
From the combination to the next combination, it is called the end.
The time of one year is the same as the time of one year. The numerator is the number of years and the denominator is the number of years. After the last two numbers are determined, other basic data are also available.
Multiply the number of years and years by the total number, and the result is the combined month method.
Multiply the total number of Jifa one thousand eight hundred and forty-three, and the result is the measure method.
The quotient obtained by multiplying two hundred and thirty-five chapter months by the number of years is the total number of months; the quotient obtained by dividing the number by the combined month method is the number of combined months, and the remainder is the number of months.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
以通数乘合月数，如日法而一，为大余。
以六十去大余，余为星合朔大余。
大余之余为朔小余。
以通数乘月余，以合月法乘朔小余，并之，以日法乘合月法除之，所得星合入月日数也。
余以通法约之，为入月日余。
以朔小余减日法，余为朔虚分。
以历斗分乘合数，为星度斗分。
木、火、土各以合数减岁数，余以周天乘之，如日度法而一，所得则行星度数也，余则度余。
金、水以周天乘岁数，如日度法而一，所得则行星度数也，余则度余也。
木：合终岁数，一千二百五十五。
合终合数，一千一百四十九。
合月法，二万一千八百三十一。
日度法，二百一十一万七千六百七。
合月数。
月余，一万一千一百二十二。
translation: 
Multiply the total number of hundreds and thirty-four thousand six hundred and thirty by the number of months and divide it by the number of days of four thousand five hundred and fifty-nine, and the obtained quotient is a surplus.
Sixty are removed from Dayu in a row, and the remaining part less than sixty is the planet conjunct Dayu.
The remainder other than the big remainder is Shuo Xiaoyu.
Multiply the total number by the moon's remainder, and multiply the moon's conjunction by the luo's remainder. Add the two and divide by the product of the day's number 4559 and the conjunction's moon. The quotient obtained is the number of months when the planets are combined.
Divide the remainder by Tongfa forty-seven, and the result is the remainder after the month and day.
Subtract the daily method from Shuo Xiaoyu, and the result is Shuo Xufen.
Multiply Lidoufen four hundred and fifty-five by the total, and the result is Xingdu Doufen.
The sum of Jupiter, Mars, and Saturn is subtracted from their respective years, and the remainder is multiplied by six hundred and seventy-three thousand one hundred and fifty celestial bodies, and divided by the day method. The resulting quotient is the planetary degree, and the remainder is the degree remainder.
For Venus and Mercury, multiply the days of the week by their respective years and divide by the day method. The resulting quotient is the planetary degree, and the remainder is the degree remainder. Jupiter:
Final age: one thousand two hundred and fifty-five.
The final total is: one thousand one hundred and forty-nine.
Conjunction of the moon: twenty-one thousand eight hundred and thirty-one.
Day method: two hundred and one hundred thousand six hundred and seventy-seven.
Combined month number: thirteen.
More than a month: eleven thousand one hundred and twenty-two.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
朔大余，二十三。
朔小余，四千九十三。
入月日，一十五。
日余，一百九十九万五千六百六十四。
朔虚分，四百六十六。
斗分，五十二万二千七百九十五。
行星度，三十三。
度余，一百四十七万二千八百六十九。
火：合终岁数，五千一百五。
合终合数，二千三百八十八。
合月法，四万五千三百七十二。
日度法，四百四十万一千八十四。
合月数，二十六。
月余，二万三。
朔大余，四十七。
朔小余，三千六百二十七。
入月日，一十三。
日余，三百五十八万五千二百三十。
朔虚分，九百三十二。
斗分，一百八万六千五百四十。
行星度，五十。
度余，一百四十一万二千一百五十。
土：合终岁数，三千九百四十三。
合终合数，三千八百九。
合月法，七万二千三百七十一。
日度法，七百一万九千九百八十七。
合月数，一十二。
月余，五万八千一百五十三。
朔大余，五十四。
朔小余，一千六百七十四。
入月日，二十四。
日余，六十七万五千三百六十四。
translation: 
Shuo Dayu: Twenty-three.
Shuo Xiaoyu: Four thousand and ninety-three.
Moon day: fifteen.
More than a month: one million nine hundred and ninety-five thousand six hundred and sixty-four.
Shuoxu points: four hundred and sixty-six.
Score: five hundred and twenty-two thousand, seven hundred and ninety-five.
Planetary Degree: Thirty-three.
Duyu: One hundred, four hundred and seventy-two thousand eight hundred and sixty-nine.
Mars: Conjunction age: 5105.
The final total is: two thousand three hundred and eighty-eight.
Conjunct moon method: forty-five thousand three hundred and seventy-two.
Day method: four hundred and forty-one thousand and eighty-four.
Combined moon application: twenty-six.
Months remaining: twenty thousand and three.
Shuo Dayu: Forty-seven.
Shuo Xiaoyu: Three thousand six hundred and twenty-seven.
Moon day: thirteen.
Riyu: 3,585,230.
Shuoxu points: nine hundred and thirty-two.
Score: one million, eighty-six thousand, five hundred and forty.
Planetary Degree: Fifty.
Duyu: One hundred, four hundred and twelve thousand one hundred and fifty.
Saturn: Year of conjunction: three thousand nine hundred and forty-three.
The final combination: three thousand eight hundred and nine.
Conjunction of the moon: seventy-two thousand three hundred and seventy-one.
Day method: seven hundred and nineteen thousand nine hundred and eighty-seven.
Combined month number: twelve.
More than a month: fifty-eight thousand one hundred and fifty-three.
Shuo Dayu: Fifty-four.
Shuo Xiaoyu: One thousand, six hundred and seventy-four.
Moon day: twenty-four.
Day remaining: six hundred and seventy-five thousand three hundred and sixty-four.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
朔虚分，二千八百八十五。
斗分，一百七十三万三千九十五。
行星度，一十二。
度余，五百九十六万二千二百五十六。
金：合终岁数，一千九百七。
合终合数，二千三百八十五。
合月法，四万五千三百一十五。
日度法，四百三十九万五千五百五十五。
合月数，九。
月余，四万三百一十。
朔大余，二十五。
朔小余，三千五百三十五。
入月日，二十七。
日余，十九万四千九百九十。
朔虚分，一千二十四。
斗分，一百八万五千一百七十五。
行星度，二百九十二。
度余，十九万四千九百九十。
水：合终岁数，一千八百七十。
合终合数，一万一千七百八十九。
合月法，二十二万三千九百九十一。
日度法，二千一百七十二万七千一百二十七。
合月数，一。月余，二十一万五千四百五十九。朔大余，二十九。
朔小余，二千四百一十九。
入月日，二十八。
日余，二千三十四万四千二百六十一。
朔虚分，二千一百四十。
斗分，五百三十六万三千九百九十五。
行星度，五十七。
度余，二千三十四万千三百六十一。
translation: 
Shuo Xufen: Two thousand eight hundred and eighty-five.
Score: one hundred, seven hundred and thirty-three thousand and ninety-five.
Planetary Degree: Twelve.
Du Yu: Five hundred nine hundred and sixty-two thousand two hundred and fifty-six.
Venus: Year of conjunction: one thousand nine hundred and seven.
The final combination: two thousand three hundred and eighty-five.
Conjunct moon method: forty-five thousand three hundred and fifteen.
Day method: four hundred and ninety-five thousand five hundred and fifty-five.
Combined moon application: nine.
More than a month: forty thousand three hundred and ten.
Shuo Dayu: Twenty-five.
Shuo Xiaoyu: Three thousand five hundred and thirty-five.
Moon day: twenty-seven.
Riyu: one hundred ninety-four thousand nine hundred and ninety.
Shuoxufen: one thousand and twenty-four.
Score: 1,085,175.
Planetary degree: two hundred and ninety-two.
Du Yu: One hundred ninety-four thousand nine hundred and ninety.
Mercury: Year of conjunction: one thousand eight hundred and seventy.
The final total is: eleven thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine.
Conjunct moon method: two hundred and twenty-three thousand nine hundred and ninety-one.
Day method: 21,727,120 combined with the number of months: one.
More than a month: two hundred and fifteen thousand, four hundred and fifty-nine. Shuo Dayu: Twenty-nine.
Shuo Xiaoyu: Two stems, four hundred and nineteen.
Moon day: twenty-eight.
Riyu: Two thousand three hundred and forty-four thousand two hundred and sixty-one.
Shuo Xufen: Two thousand one hundred and forty.
Score: 5,363,995.
Planetary degree: fifty-seven.
Du Yu: Two thousand three hundred and forty-four thousand three hundred and sixty-one.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
推五星术曰：置壬辰元以来尽所求年，以合终合数乘之，满合终岁数得一，名积合，不尽名为合余。
以合终合数减合余，得一者星合往年，得二者合前往年，无所得，合其年。
余以减合终合数，为度分。
金、水积合，偶为晨，奇为夕。
推五星合月：以月数、月余各乘积合，余满合月法从月，为积月，不尽为月余。
以纪月除积月，所得算外，所入纪也，余为入纪月。
副以章闰乘之，满章月得一为闰，以减入纪月，余以岁中去之，余为入岁月，命以天正起，算外，星合月也。
其在闰交际，以朔御之。
translation: 
The method of deducing five stars: take the number of years from Renchen Yuan to the desired year, multiply it by the total number, and divide it by the total number of years. The quotient obtained is named the cumulative sum, and the remainder is named the total remainder.
Divide the remainder by the final conjunction. If the quotient is one, the planet was conjunct the Sun in the previous year. If the quotient is two, the planet was conjunct the Sun in the previous year. If the quotient yields no result, the planet was conjunct the Sun in the desired year.
The remainder is subtracted from the final sum and is divided into degrees.
When the sum of Venus and Mercury is an even number, they will be conjunct the Sun in the morning; if their sum is an odd number, they will be conjunct the Sun in the evening.
Determine the month when the five stars are combined: Multiply the number of months and the remainder of the month by the total, and convert the remainder of the month into the full moon, and the final result is the accumulated month, and the part that is less than the combined month is the remainder of the month.
Divide the accumulated months by the 22,795 chronological months, and calculate the quotient, which is the chronological month, and the remainder is the chronological month.
Multiply the leap month by the lunar month and divide it by the 235th lunar month. The result is the number of leap months. Subtract it by the lunar month. If the difference is greater than the eleventh month in the year, remove it. The remaining less than twelve parts are the incoming years. Count from the eleventh month of Tianzheng. If not, it is the month when the planets meet.
If it happens to be a leap month, it will be determined according to the new day.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
推合月朔：以通数乘入纪月，满日法得一，为积日，不尽为小余。
以六十去积日，余为大余，命以所入纪，算外，星合朔日也。
推入月日：以通数乘月余，合月法乘朔小余，并之，通法约之，所得满日度法得一，则星合入月日也，不满日余。
命日以朔，算外，入月日也。
推星合度：以周天乘度分，满日度法得一为度，不尽为余。
命以牛前五度起，算外，星所合度也。
求后全月：以月数加入岁月，以余加月余，余满合月法得一月。
月不满岁中，即在其年；满去之，有闰计焉，余为后年；再满，在后二年。
金、水加晨得夕，加夕得晨也。
求后合朔：以朔大、小余数加合朔月大、小余，其月余上成月者，又加大余二十九，小余二千四百一十九，小余满日法从大余，命如前法。
求后入月日：以入月日、日余加入月日及余，余满日度法得一。
其前合朔小余满其虚分者，去一日；后小余满二千四百一十九以上，去二十九日；不满，去三十日，其余则后合入月日，命以朔。
求后合度，以度数及分，如前合宿次命之。
translation: 
Determining the first day of the lunar month at which the meeting will take place: Multiply the general number by one hundred and thirty-four thousand six hundred and thirty by the lunar month, and divide it by the day method. The resulting quotient is the accumulated day, and the remainder is the small remainder.
Take the accumulated days and subtract 60 continuously, and the remaining part less than 60 is the excess. Calculated from the zodiac stem and branch of the period, the extra calculation is the new moon day when the planets meet.
To calculate the number of days in the moon when the planets are in conjunction: Multiply 134,630 times the number of days in the month and the number of days in conjunction with the moon. Add the two and divide by the day method. The resulting quotient is the number of months in the moon when the planets are in conjunction, and the remainder is the number of days in the moon.
The sun is calculated from the first day of the new moon, except for the day when the planets are in conjunction with each other.
To calculate the celestial degree when the planets will be in conjunction: Multiply the 673,150 degrees in the circumference and divide by the day method. The remainder is the degree when the planets are in conjunction, and the remainder is the degree remainder.
The degree is calculated from the five degrees before Ox, and beyond that, it is the degree of the nakshatra where the planets are converging.
Find the month of the next conjunction: Add the number of months to the number of years at the time of the last conjunction, and add the remainder of the month to the remainder of the month at the time of the last conjunction. If the resulting remainder of the month is greater than the combined month method, then it is converted into the number of months.
If the number of months is less than the middle of the year, then the planets will convene in this year; if the number of months is greater than or equal to the middle of the year, subtract it, and if there is a leap month, it will also be subtracted. If the remainder is less than the middle of the year, then the planets will join one year after the last conjunction; if the remaining number is still greater than or equal to twelve, then the planets will join two years after the last conjunction.
After Venus and Mercury add one conjunction, they change from a morning conjunction to an evening conjunction, and from an evening conjunction to a morning conjunction.
Find the first day of the lunar month when the next meeting will occur: take the day of the new moon and the small day of the new moon, add the dayu and the small day of the next combined month, add the full month, add twenty-nine of the big day, 2419 of the day of the small day, and 4559 parts of the full day of the small day, turn it into the day of the day. The method of calculating and naming is as before.
To find the lunar day when the next conjunction occurs: take the lunar day and remaining day, add the lunar day and remaining day at the next conjunction, and convert it into a day.
If the minor remainder of the last conjunction is greater than or equal to the corresponding imaginary minute, then subtract one day; if the minor remainder of this conjunction is greater than or equal to 2419, subtract 29 days; if it is less than 2419, subtract 30 days, and the remainder is the day of the new moon at the time of this conjunction, starting from the new moon day.
To find the degree and degree of the next meeting, add the degrees and minutes to the degrees and minutes of the last meeting. Calculate from the degree of the last meeting. The result is the degree of the current meeting.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
木：晨与日合，伏，顺，十六日九十九万七千八百三十二分行星二度百七十九万五千二百三十八分，而晨见东方，在日后。
顺，疾，日行五十七分之十一，五十七日行十一度。
顺，迟，日行九分，五十七日行九度而留。
不行二十七日而旋。
逆，日行七分之一，八十四日退十二度而复留。
二十七日复迟，日行九分，五十七日行九度而复顺。
疾，日行十一分，五十七日行十一度，在日前，夕伏西方。
顺，十六日九十九万七千八百三十二分行星二度百七十九万五千二百三十八分，而与日合。
凡一终，三百九十八日百九十九万五千六百六十四分，行星三十三度百四十七万二千八百六十九分。
火：晨与日合，伏，七十二日百七十九万二千六百一十五分行星五十六度百二十四万九千三百四十五分，而晨见东方，在日后。
顺，日行二十三分之十四，百八十四日行百一十二度。
更顺，迟，日行十二分，九十二日行四十八度而留。
不行十一日而旋。
逆，日行六十二分之十七，六十二日退十七度而复留。
十一日复顺，迟，日行十二分，九十二日行四十八度而复疾。
日行十四分，百八十四日行百一十二度，在日前，夕伏西方。
顺，七十二日百七十九万二千六百一十五分行星五十六度百二十四万九千三百四十五分，而与日合。
凡一终，七百八十日三百五十八万五千二百三十分，行星四百一十五度二百四十九万八千六百九十分。
土：晨与日合，伏，十九日三百八十四万七千六百七十五分半行星二度六百四十九万一千一百二十一分半，而晨见东方，在日后。
顺，行百七十二分之十三，八十六日行六度半而留。
不行三十二日半而旋。
逆，日行十七分之一，百二日退六度而复留。
不行三十二日半复顺，日行十三分，八十六日行六度半，在日前，夕伏西方。
顺，十九日三百八十四万七千六百七十五分半行星二度六百四十九万一千一百二十一分半，而与日合。
凡一终，三百七十八日六十七万五千三百六十四分，行星十二度五百九十六万二千二百五十六分。
translation: 
Jupiter: It meets the Sun in the morning, goes direct, and moves forward for 997,832 minutes in 16 days. It travels a total of 2 degrees and 1,795,238 minutes. It then appears in the east in the morning, behind the Sun.
Direct motion, fast, moving 11/57 degrees every day, totaling 11 degrees in fifty-seven days.
Then it moves forward slowly, moving nine degrees every day, and a total of nine degrees in fifty-seven days, staying.
Twenty-seven days without moving and turning.
Retrograde, traveling one-seventh of a degree every day, retrograde a total of 12 degrees in eighty-four days, and then stay again.
It stops for twenty-seven days and then moves slowly, moving nine degrees every day. For fifty-seven days, it moves nine degrees in total and goes straight.
Fast, it moves eleven minutes every day, and moves eleven degrees in total in fifty-seven days. It is in front of the sun and lurks in the west at night.
It goes direct for 16 days and 997,832 minutes, traveling a total of 1,795,238 minutes for two degrees to meet the sun.
In total, there are 398 days and 1,995,664 minutes, running thirty-three degrees and 1,472,869 minutes.
Mars: It joins the Sun in the morning and disappears for seventy-two days, 1,792,615 minutes. It travels 56 degrees, 1,249,345 minutes, and then appears in the east in the morning, behind the Sun.
Direct motion, it moves 14/23 degrees every day, and 112 degrees every 184 days.
Then it moves forward slowly, moving twelve minutes a day, moving forty-eight degrees in ninety-two days and staying.
Eleven days without moving, turning.
Retrograde, moving seventeen/sixty-two degrees every day, retrograde seventeen degrees in sixty-two days, and then stay.
After eleven days, it turns direct and slow, moving twelve minutes a day. In ninety-two days, it moves 48 degrees, and its speed becomes faster.
It moves fourteen minutes a day and 112 degrees in one hundred and eighty-four days, before the sun and hiding in the west at night.
Direct motion, 1,792,615 minutes in seventy-two days, travels 56 degrees 1,249,345 minutes, and meets the sun.
In total, it will last for 780 days and 3,585,230 minutes, running 415 degrees and 2,498,690 minutes.
Saturn: It joins the sun in the morning and disappears. It lasts nineteen days at 3,847,675 and 5 points. It moves through two degrees at 6,491,121 and 5 points. Then it appears in the east in the morning, behind the sun.
In direct motion, it moves 13/172 degrees every day and 6.5 degrees in eighty-six days.
Thirty-two point five days without moving, turning.
Retrograde, traveling one-seventeenth of a degree every day, retrograde six degrees in one hundred and two days, and stay again.
It does not move for thirty-two point five days and turns direct, moving thirteen minutes a day. It moves six point five degrees for eighty-six days, in front of the sun and hiding in the west at night.
Direct motion, nineteen days 3847675.5 points, traveling two degrees 6491121.5 points, meeting the sun.
In total, there are a total of 378 days and 675,364 minutes, running through twelve degrees and 5,962,256 minutes.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
金：晨与日合，伏，六日退四度，而晨见东方，在日后而逆。
迟，日行五分之三，十日退六度。
留，不行七日而旋。
顺，迟，日行四十五分之三十三，四十五日行三十三度而顺。
疾，日行一度九十一分之十四，九十一日行百五度而顺。
益疾，日行一度九十一分之二十一，九十一日行百一十二度，在日后，而晨伏东方。
顺，四十二日十九万四千九百九十分行星五十二度十九万四千九百九十分，而与日合。
一合，二百九十二日十九万四千九百九十分，行星如之。
金：夕与日合，伏，顺，四十二日十九万四千九百九十分行星五十二度十九万四千九百九十分，而夕见西方，在日前。
顺，疾，日行一度九十一分之二十一，九十一日行百一十二度而更顺。
迟，日行一度十四分，九十一日行百五度而顺。
益迟，日行四十五分之三十三，四十五日行三十三度而留。
不行七日而旋。
逆，日行五分之三，十日退六度，在日前，夕伏西方。
逆，六日退四度，而与日合。
凡再合一终，五百八十四日三十八万九千九百八十分，行星如之。
translation: 
Venus: joins the Sun in the morning, volts, goes retrograde, retrogrades four degrees in six days, then appears in the east in the morning, behind the Sun, going retrograde.
Slowly, it moves three-fifths of a degree every day and retreats six degrees in ten days.
Stay, do not move for seven days, and turn.
Direct, slow, moving thirty-three degrees per forty-five days, and thirty-three degrees in forty-five days, direct.
Fast, it moves one and fourteen/91 degrees every day, and moves forward one hundred and five degrees in ninety-one days.
Faster, it travels one and twenty-one-ninety-one degrees per day, and one hundred and twelve degrees in ninety-one days, behind the sun and lurking in the east in the morning.
Direct motion, it travels fifty-two degrees and 194,990 minutes in forty-two days to meet the sun.
One combination, a total of 292 days, 194,990 minutes, running 292 degrees, 194,990 minutes.
Venus: rendezvous with the Sun at night, disappears from view, moves forward, travels 52 degrees and 194,990 minutes in forty-two days, and then appears in the west at night, in front of the Sun.
Direct motion, fast, moving one and twenty-one-ninety-one degrees per day, moving one hundred and twelve degrees in ninety-one days, and then moving forward again.
Slowly, it moves one degree and fourteen minutes every day, moves one hundred and five degrees every ninety-one days, and then goes straight.
Even slower, it runs 33/45 degrees every day and 33/45 degrees in forty-five days.
Seven days without moving, turn.
Retrograde, traveling three-fifths of a degree every day, retrograde six degrees in ten days, ahead of the sun, and lurking in the west at night.
Retrograde, retrograde four degrees in six days, and meet the sun.
A total of two rendezvous, one end, 584 days and 389,980 minutes, running 584 degrees and 389,980 minutes.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
水：晨与日合，伏，十一日退七度，而晨见东方，在日后。
逆，疾，一日退一度而留。
不行一日而旋。
顺，迟，日行八分之七，八日行七度而顺。
疾，日行一度十八分之四，十八日行二十二度，在日后，晨伏东方。
顺，十八日二千三十四万四千二百六十一分行星三十六度二千三十四万四千二百六十一分，而与日合。
凡一合，五十七日二千三十四万四千二百六十一分，行星如之。
水：夕与日合，伏，十八日二千三十四万四千二百六十一分行星三十六度二千三十四万四千二百六十一分，而夕见西方，在日前。
顺，疾，日行一度十八分之四，十八日行二十二度而更顺。
迟，日行八分之七，八日行七度而留。
不行一日而旋。
逆，一日退一度，在日前，夕伏西方。
逆，十一日退七度，而与日合。
凡再合一终，百一十五日千八百九十六万一千三百九十五分，行星如之。五星历步术
以法伏日度余加星合日度余，余满日度法得一从全，命之如前，得星见日及度余也。
以星行分母乘见度分，如日度法得一，分不尽，半法以上亦得一，而日加所行分，分满其母得一度。
逆顺母不同，以当行之母乘故分，如故母而一，当行分也。
留者承前，逆则减之，伏不尽度，除斗分，以行母为率。
分有损益，前后相御。
translation: 
Mercury: joins the Sun in the morning, disappears from view, retrogrades seven degrees in eleven days, appears in the east in the morning, behind the Sun.
Retrograde, fast, retreat once a day and stay.
Don't move for a day, turn.
Direct motion, slow motion, moving seven-eighths of a degree every day, seven degrees in eight days, direct motion.
Fast, it moves one and four-eighteenths of a degree every day, twenty-two degrees in eighteen days, behind the sun, and lurking in the east in the morning.
Direct motion, eighteen days and two thousand three hundred and forty-four thousand two hundred and sixty-one minutes, traveling thirty-six degrees and two thousand three hundred and forty-four thousand two hundred and sixty-one minutes, converging with the sun.
One combination, a total of fifty-seven days and two thousand three hundred and forty-four thousand two hundred and sixty-one minutes, running fifty-seven degrees and two thousand three hundred and forty-four thousand two hundred and sixty-one minutes.
Mercury: It joins the Sun at night and disappears. It travels 36 degrees in eighteen days and 20,344,261 minutes. It appears in the west in the evening, before the Sun.
Direct motion, fast, moving one and four-eighteenths of a degree every day, twenty-two degrees in eighteen days, direct motion.
Slowly, it moves seven-eighths of a degree every day, and stays at seven degrees in eight days.
Don't move for a day, turn.
Retrograde, moving backward one degree a day, in front of the sun, and lurking in the west at night.
Retrograde, moving backward seven degrees in eleven days to meet the Sun.
A total of two rendezvous, one end, one hundred and fifteen days, one thousand eight hundred and ninety-six thousand one thousand three hundred and ninety-five minutes, running one hundred and fifteen degrees, one thousand eight hundred and ninety-six thousand one thousand three hundred and ninety-five minutes. Five Star Calendar Steps:
Add the number of days, degrees and remainders when a given planet is hidden to the time, degree and remainder when the planet is in conjunction. If the remainder is greater than the day degree, it can be converted into the number of days, degrees and the addition. The naming method is the same as before, and the time and degree of the planet's appearance can be obtained.
Multiply the denominator of the planet's daily movement fraction by the degree when the star first appeared. Divide the degree remainder by the daily degree method to get one. If the degree remainder reaches more than half of the daily degree method, it will also be one. Add the fraction of the daily movement, and the fraction is greater than or equal to its corresponding denominator to get one degree.
The denominator used in retrograde motion and direct motion is different. Multiply the current corresponding denominator by the previous running denominator and divide it by the denominator corresponding to the previous running denominator. The result is the running denominator corresponding to the current denominator.
When the planets are stationary, the degree of the constellation remains the same as before, and when it is retrograde, it is reduced. When the planet is in volts, the degree of daily movement is not written. When it passes through the constellation, the degree of the constellation is removed, and the current denominator is used as the ratio.
The running points increase and decrease, and the front and back take care of each other.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
武帝侍中平原刘智，以斗历改宪，推《四分法》，三百年而减一日，以百五十为度法，三十七为斗分。
推甲子为上元，至泰始十年，岁在甲午，九万七千四百一十一岁，上元天正甲子朔夜半冬至，日月五星始于星纪，得元首之端。
饰以浮说，名为《正历》。
当阳侯杜预著《春秋长历》，说云：
日行一度，月行十三度十九分之七有奇，日官当会集此之迟疾，以考成晦朔，以设闰月。
闰月无中气，而北斗邪指两辰之间，所以异于他月。
积此以相通，四时八节无违，乃得成岁，其微密至矣。
得其精微，以合天道，则事叙而不愆。
故《传》曰： 闰以正时，时以作事。
然阴阳之运，随动而差，差而不已，遂与历错。
故仲尼、丘明每于朔闰发文，盖矫正得失，因以宣明历数也。
translation: 
Liu Zhi, a plain man who served as Emperor Wu's servant, modified the calendar with the Dou calendar and advocated the "Four Points Method", subtracting one day from three hundred years, using one hundred and fifty as the measure, and thirty-seven as the Doufen.
It is estimated that Jiazi is the Shangyuan, and the tenth year of Taishi, that is, the Jiawu year, totals 97,411 years. The Shangyuan Tianzheng is at the midnight of Jiazi and the winter solstice, and the sun, moon, and five planets start from the star era and get the beginning of the head of the Shangyuan.
It is called "Zhengli" by using the theory of vanity as an excuse.
Dangyanghou Du Yu wrote "Chunqiu Changli" and said:
The sun moves through one degree, and the moon moves through thirteen and seven-nineteenths of a degree. The officials in charge of the calendar set up leap months based on the speed of the movement of the sun and moon to observe the twilight and new moon.
There is no mid-air in the leap month, and the Big Dipper points diagonally between the two stars, so it is different from the other twelve months.
Based on this continuous calculation, if there are no mistakes in the four seasons and eight seasons, then one can reach adulthood and reach an extremely subtle state.
If you get its subtlety and combine it with the way of heaven, things will be orderly and not chaotic.
Therefore, "Zhuan" says: Leap months are used to correct the time, and the time is used to guide personnel.
However, the movement of yin and yang produces errors as it moves, and the errors continue to accumulate, so the calendar is erroneous.
Therefore, Zhongni and Qiu Ming recorded every new moon and leap month in order to correct the gains and losses of the calendar and clarify the calendar.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
刘子骏造《三正历》以修《春秋》，日蚀有甲乙者三十四，而《三正历》惟得一蚀，比诸家既最疏。
又六千余岁辄益一日，凡岁当累日为次，而故益之，此不可行之甚者。
自古已来，诸论《春秋》者多违谬，或造家术，或用黄帝已来诸历，以推经传朔日，皆不谐合。
日蚀于朔，此乃天验，《经传》又书其朔蚀，可谓得天，而刘贾诸儒说，皆以为月二日或三日，公违圣人明文，其弊在于守一元，不与天消息也。
余感《春秋》之事，尝著《历论》，极言历之通理。
其大指曰： 天行不息，日月星辰各运其舍，皆动物也。
物动则不一，虽行度有大量可得而限，累日为月，累月为岁，以新故相涉，不得不有毫末之差，此自然之理也。
translation: 
Liu Zijun created the "Sanzheng Calendar" and used it to study the "Spring and Autumn". The "Spring and Autumn" contains thirty-four solar eclipses with solar stems and branches, but according to the "Sanzheng Calendar", there is only one. Compared with other calendars, it is the most crude.
Moreover, a day of more than six thousand years should be accumulated every day, and if it is deliberately increased, its unfeasibility reaches the extreme.
Since ancient times, those Li scholars who discussed the "Spring and Autumn Annals" were often absurd. They either used their own calendars or used the calendars of other schools since the Yellow Emperor to calculate the Shuo in the classics, but all of them were inconsistent with the classics.
The solar eclipse occurs on the lunar month, which is in line with the laws of nature. It is also written in the "Jing" and "Zhuan" that the lunar eclipse can be called the gain of heaven. However, the theories of Liu, Mai and others believe that the solar eclipse can occur on the second or third day of the lunar month, which blatantly violates the sage's explicit text. Their shortcoming is that they only identify one Shangyuan and do not make corrections based on the actual celestial phenomena.
I was deeply moved by the above-mentioned things about the Spring and Autumn Calendar, and I once wrote "Calendar Theory" to explain the general principles of the calendar.
The general meaning is: the sky is constantly moving, the sun, moon and planets are moving in the sky, and they are all moving celestial bodies.
The motion of celestial bodies cannot always be consistent, even if their motions are available in large quantities and limited to a certain range. Days accumulate to become months, and months accumulate to become years. The new and the old are related to each other, and there cannot be no slight errors. This is a natural reason.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
故春秋日有频月而蚀者，有旷年不蚀者，理不得一，而算守恆数，故历无不有先后也。
始失于毫毛，而尚未可觉，积而成多，以失弦望晦朔，则不得不改宪以从之。
《书》所谓 钦若昊天，历象日月星辰 ，《易》所谓 治历明时 ，言当顺天以求合，非为合以验天者也。
推此论之，春秋二百余年，其治历变通多矣。
虽数术绝灭，远寻《经传》微旨，大量可知，时之违谬，则《经传》有验。
学者固当曲循《经传》月日、日蚀，以考晦朔，以推时验；而皆不然，各据其学，以推春秋，此无异于度己之迹，而欲削他人之足也。
余为《历论》之后，至咸宁中，善算者李修、卜显，依论体为术，名《乾度历》，表上朝廷。
其术合日行四分数而微增月行，用三百岁改宪之意，二元相推，七十余岁，承以强弱，强弱之差盖少，而适足以远通盈缩。
时尚书及史官，以《乾度》与《泰始历》参校古今记注，《乾度历》殊胜《泰始历》，上胜官历四十五事。
今其术具存。
又并考古今十历以验《春秋》，知《三统》之最疏也。
translation: 
Therefore, in the Spring and Autumn Period, some had solar eclipses for two consecutive months, and some had no solar eclipses for many years. It is logically impossible to unify them. However, the basic data used in calendar calculations remain unchanged, so the results calculated by calendars are different from the actual celestial phenomena.
The initial error is very small, so it is not noticeable. The error accumulates and becomes larger, so that the calculated xian, wang, hui and luo are inconsistent with the actual situation. The calendar has to be modified to make it consistent with the actual celestial phenomena.
This is what "The Book" says about "the clear sky, the calendar resembles the sun, moon and stars", and what "Yi" says about "governing and brightening the time". It is believed that the formulation of the calendar should conform to the actual celestial phenomena to achieve consistency between the two, rather than formulating the calendar first and then verifying whether the actual celestial phenomena is consistent with it.
By inference, during the more than two hundred years of the Spring and Autumn Period, the calendar must have been modified many times to adapt to celestial phenomena.
Although the calendar of the Spring and Autumn Period has been discontinued, if we look for the hidden intentions in the "Jing" and "Zhuan", we can know from a large number of facts that the irregularity of the seasons is evidenced in the "Jing" and "Zhuan".
Scholars should have explored the moon, sun, and solar eclipses recorded in the "Jing" and "Zhuan" to examine the Hui and Shuo and deduce whether they were consistent with the actual time; but they did not do so. They each calculated the spring and autumn moon, sun, and solar eclipses according to their own calendars. Doing so was tantamount to using their own footprints as a standard to scratch the feet of others.
After I wrote the "Calendar", in the Xianning year, two people, Kuibi and Shangti, who were good at calculation, created a calendar called "Qandu Calendar" based on my discussion and submitted it to the court.
Their calendar uses the basic data of the "Quarter Calendar" for the sun's movement, which only increases the speed of the moon's movement. They use three hundred years to modify the calendar, and use binary to calculate the celestial phenomena for more than seventy years. The error is very small, and the description of the movement of celestial bodies can be deduced to distant eras.
The ministers and historians at that time used the "Qiandu Li" and "Taishi Li" to review ancient and modern annotations, and found that the "Qiandu Li" was much better than the "Taishi Li", so they reported forty-five specific examples of its superiority to the official calendar.
Their calendars are still preserved.
At the same time, the Spring and Autumn Annals were calculated and tested using ten ancient and modern calendars. It can be seen that the Santong Calendar is the most rough.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
《春秋》大凡七百七十九日，三百九十三《经》，三百八十六《传》。
其三十七日食。
三无甲乙。
《黄帝》历得四百六十六日，一蚀。
《颛顼历》得五百九日，八蚀。
《夏历》得五百三十六日，十四蚀。
《真夏历》得四百六十六日，一蚀。
《殷历》得五百三日，十三蚀。
《周历》得五百六日，十三蚀。
《真周历》得四百八十五日，一蚀。
《鲁历》得五百二十九日，十三蚀。
《三统历》得四百八十四日，一蚀。
《乾象历》得四百九十五日，七蚀。
《泰始历》得五百一十日，十九蚀。
《乾度历》得五百三十八日，十九蚀。
今《长历》得七百四十六日，三十三蚀。
失三十三日，《经传》误；四日蚀，三无甲乙。
translation: 
A total of 779 Ganzhi days are recorded in "Spring and Autumn", 393 days are in "Jing", and 386 days are in "Zhuan".
Thirty-seven solar eclipses.
There are no daily stems and branches three times.
The "Huangdi Calendar" calculates that four hundred and sixty-six days coincide with a solar eclipse.
"Zhuan Xiang Calendar" calculates that five hundred and nine days coincide with eight solar eclipses.
The "Summer Calendar" calculates that five hundred and thirty-six days coincide with fourteen solar eclipses.
The "True Summer Calendar" calculates that four hundred and sixty-six days coincide with a solar eclipse.
The "Yin Calendar" calculates that the five hundred and three days coincide with the thirteenth solar eclipse.
The "Weekly Calendar" calculates that five hundred and six days coincide with thirteen solar eclipses.
The "True Weekly Calendar" calculates that four hundred and eighty-five days coincide with a solar eclipse.
"Lu Li" calculates that the five hundred and twenty-nine days coincide with thirteen solar eclipses.
The "Santong Calendar" calculates that 484 days coincide with a solar eclipse.
The "Qian Xiang Calendar" calculates that the four hundred and ninety-five days coincide with seven solar eclipses.
The "Tai Shi Calendar" calculates that the 510th day coincides with the 19th solar eclipse.
The "Qiandu Calendar" calculates that the five hundred and thirty-eight days coincide with the nineteen solar eclipses.
The current "Long Calendar" estimates that seven hundred and forty-six and thirty-three solar eclipses coincide.
Thirty-three do not match, the Jing and Zhuan are wrong; the four solar eclipses do not match, and three of them have no stems and branches.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
汉末，宋仲子集七历以考《春秋》，案其夏、周二历术数，皆与《艺文志》所记不同，故更名为《真夏》、《真周历》也。
穆帝永和八年，著作郎琅邪王朔之造《通历》，以甲子为上元，积九万七千年，四千八百八十三为纪法，千二百五为斗分，因其上元为开辟之始。
后秦姚兴时，当孝武太元九年，岁在甲申，天水姜岌造《三纪甲子元历》，其略曰： 治历之道，必审日月之行，然后可以上考天时，下察地化。
一失其本，则四时变移。
故仲尼之作《春秋》，日以继月，月以继时，时以继年，年以首事，明天时者人事之本，是以王者重之。
自皇羲以降，暨于汉魏，各自制历，以求厥中。
考其疏密，惟交会薄蚀可以验之。
然书契所记，惟《春秋》著日蚀之变，自隐公讫于哀公，凡二百四十二年之间，日蚀三十有六，考其晦朔，不知用何历也。
translation: 
At the end of the Han Dynasty, Song Zhongzi collected seven calendars to research the "Spring and Autumn". After research, it was found that the summer and Tuesday calendars were different from those recorded in "Yiwenzhi", so they were renamed "True Summer Calendar" and "True Weekly Calendar".
In the eighth year of Yonghe reign of Emperor Mu, he wrote "Tongli" written by Wang Shuo, a man of Langlangye. Jiazi was regarded as the Shangyuan, with an accumulation of 97,000 years, 4,883 as Jifa, and 1,205 as Douben. The Shangyuan was used as the beginning of development.
During the reign of Yao Xing in the Later Qin Dynasty, in the ninth year of Taiyuan of Xiaowu, that is, the year of Jiashen, Jiang Qi from Tianshui created the "Jiazi Yuanli of the Three Epochs", which roughly said: To study the method of calendar, we must first study the movement of the moon, and then we can examine the heaven and earth.
Once this foundation is lost, the arrangement of the four seasons will be chaotic.
Therefore, Zhongni created "Spring and Autumn", following the month, the month following the time, the time following the year, and the year following the first event. It is clear that the weather is the foundation of human affairs, so emperors of all dynasties attached great importance to the calendar.
From the time of Emperor Xi to the Han and Wei dynasties, each dynasty formulated its own calendar in order to conform to the celestial phenomena.
To examine whether the calendar is rough or precise, we can only use cross-eclipse as a criterion.
However, according to the book, only the Spring and Autumn Annals contain solar eclipses. From Yin Gong to Ai Gong, in a total of 242 years, there were thirty-six solar eclipses. Looking at the Hui and Shuo, we don't know what calendar was used.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
班固以为《春秋》因《鲁历》，《鲁历》不正，故置闰失其序。
鲁以闰余一之岁为蔀首，检《春秋》置闰不与此蔀相符也。
《命历序》曰：孔子为治《春秋》之故，退修殷之故历，使其数可传于后。
如是，《春秋》宜用《殷历》正之。
今考其交会，不与《殷历》相应，以《殷历》考《春秋》，月朔多不及其日，又以检《经》，率多一日，《传》率少一日。
但《公羊》、《经》、《传》异朔，于理可从，而《经》有蚀朔之验，《传》为失之也。
服虔解《传》用太极上元，太极上元乃《三统历》刘歆所造元也，何缘施于《春秋》？
于《春秋》而用《汉历》，于义无乃远乎？
《传》之违失多矣，不惟斯事而已。
襄公二十七年冬十有一月乙亥朔，日有蚀之。
《传》曰： 辰在申，司历过，再失闰也。
考其去交分，交会应在此月，而不为再失闰也。
案歆历于《春秋》日蚀一朔，其余多在二日。因附《五行传》，著朓与侧匿之说云：春秋时诸侯多失其政，故月行恆迟。
歆不以历失天，而为之差说。
日之食朔，此乃天验也，而歆反以历非此，冤天而负时历也。
杜预又以为周衰世乱，学者莫得其真，今之所传七历，皆未必是时王之术也。
translation: 
Ban Gu believed that the "Spring and Autumn Annals" followed the "Lu Li" and the "Lu Li" was incorrect, so the leap month setting was inappropriate.
Lu used the year with leap month as one as the radical, and examined the method of setting leap month in "Spring and Autumn", but it was inconsistent with this radical.
"Preface to the Ming Calendar" says: In order to study the "Spring and Autumn Annals", Confucius specially studied the calendar of the Yin Dynasty so that it could be passed down to later generations.
If this is the case, the "Yin Li" should be used to correct the moon and eclipses in the "Spring and Autumn Period".
The current examination of the "Jiaoshi" in the "Chun Qiu" does not match the "Yin Li". Use the "Yin Li" to examine the "Chun Qiu" and find that most of the New Moon dates are different from those in the "Chun Qiu". When compared with the "Jing", they all have one more day, while the "Zhuan" shows one day less.
However, "Gongyang", "Jing" and "Zhuan" have different lunar days, which makes sense logically. However, there is evidence that the solar eclipse occurs on the new lunar day in "Jing", but "Zhuan" believes that the new lunar day is missing.
Fu Qian used Tai Chi Shangyuan to annotate "Zhuan". Tai Chi Shangyuan was the calendar created by Liu Xin's "Santong Li". How could it be used in "Spring and Autumn"?
Studying "Spring and Autumn" and using "Han Li", isn't it too far from the point of view of theory?
There are many things wrong in "The Biography", not just this one.
There was a solar eclipse on the first day of November in the winter of the 27th year of Duke Xiang.
"The Biography" says: The sun and the moon met in Shen, and the official in charge of the calendar made a mistake and missed the leap twice.
Examining the eclipses of the new moon and the sun, we can see that the eclipses should be in this month, not two missed leaps.
Using Liu Xin's calendar to examine the solar eclipses in the Spring and Autumn Period, only one occurred on the first day of the lunar month, and the rest mostly occurred on the second day of the lunar month. Therefore, Liu Xin appended the "Five Elements Biography" to his calendar and wrote a far-fetched theory: During the Spring and Autumn Period, many princes did not implement virtuous governance, so the moon often moved slowly.
Not only did Liu Xin not think that the solar eclipse did not occur on the first day of the lunar month, it was an error in calendar calculation, but he made an erroneous excuse for it.
It is natural for a solar eclipse to occur on the first day of the lunar month, but Liu Xin instead criticized the actual celestial phenomena based on his own calendar. This was an injustice to heaven by relying on the calendar.
Du Yu also believed that with the decline of Zhou Qu and the unrest in the country, scholars did not obtain the calendar that was actually used at that time. The seven calendars handed down now are not necessarily the calendars actually used by each dynasty.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
今诚以七家之历，以考古今交会，信无其验也，皆由斗分疏之所致也。
《殷历》以四分一为斗分，《三统》以一千五百三十九分之三百八十五为斗分，《乾象》以五百八十九分之一百四十五为斗分，今《景初》以一千八百四十三分之四百五十五为斗分，疏密不同，法数各异。
《殷历》斗分粗，故不施于今。
《乾象》斗分细，故不得通于古。
《景初》斗分虽在粗细之中，而日之所在乃差四度，日月亏已，皆不及其次，假使日在东井而蚀，以月验之，乃在参六度，差违乃尔，安可以考天时人事乎？
今治新历，以二千四百五十一分之六百五为斗分，日在斗十七度，天正之首，上可以考合于《春秋》，下可以取验于今世。
以今新施于春秋之世，日蚀多在朔，春秋之世，下至于今，凡一千余岁，交会弦望故进退于三蚀之间，此法乃可永载用之，岂三百岁斗历改宪者乎？
translation: 
Nowadays, if we use Qianqijia's calendar to examine the ancient and modern intercourse eclipses, we are sure that it is impossible to verify it. This is all due to the roughness of the doufen.
"Yin Li" uses one quarter as dou points, "Santong Li" uses 385/1539 as dou points, "Qianxiang Li" uses 145/589 as dou points, and the current "Jingchu Li" uses 455/1843 as dou points. The density is different, and the methods and basic data are also different.
"Yin Li" is too big, so it cannot be applied now.
"Qianxiang Calendar" Doufen is too small, so it cannot be used in ancient times.
Although the bucket points in "Jingchu Calendar" are between the two, the sun is still four degrees different from the actual position, and the sun and moon are in the opposite position. Even if we sleep in Dongjing and calculate by months, it is six degrees in Rigel. How can it be used to examine the weather and personnel?
The new calendar currently being studied uses 605/2451 as Dou points, and the sun is at the seventeenth degree of Dou Su, which is the head of Tianzheng. The Spring and Autumn Annals can be used as a criterion for the upward test, and the downward test can be used to see whether it is consistent with the current actual celestial phenomena.
Use it to examine the thirty-six solar eclipses in the Spring and Autumn Annals, and twenty-five of them happened to fall on the new moon. There are two solar eclipses on the second day, two solar eclipses on the dark day, and five incorrect solar eclipses, for a total of thirty-three. The rest of the solar eclipse scriptures do not indicate the stems and branches, so there is no way to verify their gains and losses. It is said in Yuanwei that the calendar was revised in three hundred years, and the above-mentioned new calendar was used in the Spring and Autumn Period. Most solar eclipses occurred on the first day of the new moon. From the Spring and Autumn Period to the present, there have been more than a thousand years of intercourse and eclipse, but only three times are considered correct. The new calendar can be used forever. Why does it need to be revised every three hundred years?


Chunk 33: 
original: 
甲子上元以来，至鲁隐公元年已未岁，凡八万二千七百三十六，至晋孝武太元九年甲申岁，凡八万三千八百四十一，算上。
元法，七千三百五十三。
纪法，二千四百五十一。
通数，十七万九千四十四。
日法，六千六十二。
月周，三万二千七百六十六。
气分，万二千八百六十。
元月，九万九百四十五。
纪月，三万三百一十五。
没分，四万四千七百六十一。
没法，六百四十三。
斗分，六百五。
周天，八十九万五千二百二十。
一名纪日。
章月，二百三十五。
章岁，十九。
章闰，七。
岁中，十二。
会数，四十七。
日月八百九十三岁，凡四十七会，分尽。
气中，十二。
甲子纪交差，九千一百五十七。
甲申纪交差，六千三百三十七。
甲辰纪交差，三千五百一十七。
周半，一百二十七。
朔望合数，九百四十一。
会岁，八百九十三。
会月，万一千四十五。
小分，二千一百九十六。
章数，一百二十九。
小分，二千一百八十三。
周闰大分，七万六千二百六十九。
历周，四十四万七千六百一十。
半周天
会分，三万八千一百三十四。
差分，一万一千九百八十六。
会率，一千八百八十二。
小分法，二千二百九。
入交限，一万一百四。
小周，二百五十四。
甲子纪差率，四万九千一百七十八。
甲申纪差率，五万八千二百三十一。
甲辰纪差率，六万七千二百八十四。
通周，十六万七千六十三。
周日日余，三千三百六十二。
周虚，二千七百一。
translation: 
From the beginning of the Yuan Dynasty to the end of the first year of Lu Yin, there were a total of 82,736 years, and to the ninth year of Jiashen in the Taiyuan year of Xiaowu of the Jin Dynasty, a total of 83,841 years were included.
Yuanfa, seven thousand three hundred and fifty-three.
Discipline and Law, two thousand four hundred and fifty-one.
Total number, one hundred and seventy-nine thousand and forty-four.
Japanese law, six thousand sixty-two.
Month and week, thirty-two thousand seven hundred and sixty-six.
Qi points, twelve thousand eight hundred and sixty.
January, ninety thousand, nine hundred and forty-five.
Ji Yue, thirty thousand three hundred and fifteen.
No points, forty-four thousand, seven hundred and sixty-one.
No way, six hundred and forty-three.
Douban, six hundred and five.
Zhou Tian, ​​eight hundred and ninety-five thousand two hundred and twenty.
A commemorative day.
Zhang Yue, two hundred and thirty-five.
Zhang Sui, nineteen.
Zhang leap, seven.
In the middle of the year, twelve.
Can count, forty-seven.
The sun and moon are eight hundred and ninety-three years old, and all forty-seven meetings are divided.
In the air, twelve.
Jiazi Jijiaochao, nine thousand one hundred and fifty-seven.
Jiashen Jijiaochao, six thousand three hundred and thirty-seven.
Jia Chen Ji crosses, three thousand five hundred and seventeen.
Half a week, one hundred and twenty-seven.
The total number of the new moon is nine hundred and forty-one.
Huisui, eight hundred and ninety-three.
Meeting month, eleven thousand and forty-five.
Small points, two thousand one hundred and ninety-six.
Number of chapters: one hundred and twenty-nine.
Score: two thousand one hundred and eighty-three.
Zhou Rundaita: seventy-six thousand two hundred and sixty-nine.
Calendar week: four hundred and forty-seven thousand six hundred and ten.
Half a week.
Club points: thirty-eight thousand one hundred and thirty-four.
Difference: eleven thousand nine hundred and eighty six.
Meeting rate: one thousand eight hundred and eighty-two.
Small division: two thousand two hundred and nine.
Transaction limit: 10,104.
Xiao Zhou: Two hundred and fifty-four.
Jiazi period difference rate, forty-nine thousand one hundred and seventy-eight.
Jiashen discipline rate, fifty-eight thousand two hundred and thirty-one.
Jiachen discipline rate, sixty-seven thousand two hundred and eighty-four.
Tongzhou: One hundred and sixty-seven thousand and sixty-three.
Sunday balance: three thousand three hundred and sixty-two.
Zhou Xu: Two thousand seven hundred and one.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
五星约法，据出见以为正，不系于元本。
然则算步究于元初，约法施于今用，曲求其趣，则各有宜，故作者两设其法也。
岌以月食检日宿度所在，为历术者宗焉。
又著《浑天论》，以步日于黄道，驳前儒之失，并得其中矣。
translation: 
The five-star contract is based on the appearance of the planets as the basis for calculation, and is not tied to the superior element.
However, the advancement must be traced back to the early Yuan Dynasty, and the covenant method can be applied now. To explore its purpose, each has its own advantages, so the author juxtaposes the two methods.
Jiang Qian used lunar eclipses to measure the degree of the sun, which is respected by those who study and study calendars.
He also wrote "Huntian Lun", which calculated the movement of the sun based on the ecliptic and refuted the errors of pre-Confucianism. The discussion was very suitable.


