Chunk 0: 
original: 
夏、殷以上，后妃之制，其文略矣。
《周礼》王者立后，三夫人，九嫔，二十七世妇，八十一女御，以备内职焉。
后正位宫闱，同体天王。
夫人坐论妇礼，九嫔掌教四德，世妇主丧、祭、宾客，女御序于王之燕寝。
颁官分务，各有典司。
女史彤管，记功书过。
居有保阿之训，动有环佩之响。
进贤才以辅佐君子，哀窈窕而不淫其色。
所以能述宣阴化，修成内则，闺房肃雍，险谒不行也。
translation: 
Before the Xia Dynasty and the Yin and Shang Dynasties, written records about the concubine system were very brief.
"The Rites of Zhou" says that the emperor established a queen, three wives, nine concubines, twenty-seven wives, and eighty-one female concubines to fulfill various responsibilities in the inner palace.
The queen is the main body of the palace and has the same status as the emperor in the palace.
The relationship between the wife and the queen is like the relationship between the three princes and the emperor. She specially accompanies the queen to discuss the etiquette system of women's ethics. The ninth concubine is in charge of women's studies and teaches the four virtues of women's virtues, women's speech, women's appearance, and women's merits. Women of the world serve people and are in charge of sacrifices, guests, funerals and other matters. The female emperor arranges the emperor's dining, banqueting, and sleeping arrangements, which changes according to the age of the year.
Official positions are established to distinguish duties, and each person has his own code and scope of action.
The female historian was in charge of the queen's rites, and she used a red pen to record the merits and demerits of the book.
Wherever you live and rest, you must follow your nanny and listen to her teachings and protection. When you step forward or backward, your rings jingle.
Later, he used virtuous women with womanly ethics to assist the emperor, and he loved the ladies without indulging in their beauty.
In this way, the yin virtues and yin rituals of the harem can be stated and promoted, and a perfect set of rules can be established to teach the six palaces and the nine emperors. The boudoir will be solemn and peaceful, and evil flattery and improper recommendation of relatives will not happen.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
故康王晚朝，《关雎》作讽；宣后晏起，姜氏请愆。
及周室东迁，礼序凋缺。诸侯僣纵，轨制无章。
齐桓有如夫人者六人，晋献升戎女为元妃，终于五子作乱，冢嗣遘屯。
爰逮战国，风宪逾薄，适情任欲，颠倒衣裳，以至破国亡身，不可胜数。
斯固轻礼驰防，先色后德者也。
秦并天下，多自骄大，宫备七国，爵列八品。汉兴，因循其号，而妇制莫厘。
高祖帷薄不修，孝文衽席无辩。
translation: 
Therefore, Queen Kang of Zhou did not leave the king because of the rooster's crow. She was greedy for peace and happiness, causing King Kang to miss the morning court meeting. The "Book of Songs·Guan Ju" made an allegorical reference;
By the time the Zhou Dynasty moved its capital to Luoyang, the etiquette and legal system was incomplete and lax, and the princes and kingdoms were becoming more and more indulgent and almost lawless.
Duke Huan of Qi had six wives, and he was extremely favored by his wife; Duke Xian of Jin made Li Ji, the daughter of Li Rong, his legitimate wife.
Duke Huan's six wives gave birth to six sons. Duke Huan died and one son succeeded him. The other five rebelled when they failed to succeed. Duke Xian of Jin was slandered by Li Ji and killed the prince Shensheng, causing disaster to his eldest son. During the Warring States Period, the customs and charters became even more diluted and damaged, lust was rampant, and the clothing system was reversed and chaotic, resulting in the destruction of the country and the death of countless people.
This is entirely the result of despising the ethical system, neglecting to take precautions, and focusing on sex rather than morality.
Qin Shihuang conquered the six kingdoms and unified the world. He was arrogant and arrogant and did whatever he wanted. He imitated the palaces of the six kingdoms and recruited beauties from the seven kingdoms. During the Han Dynasty, according to the name of the Qin Dynasty, the system for women in the harem was not organized and formulated.
Therefore, during the reign of Emperor Gaozu, the ministers were dirty to both men and women, and the curtains were thin and not repaired. Emperor Xiaowen favored Mrs. Shen, and every time he sat with the queen, there was no difference between them.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
然而选纳尚简，饰玩少华。
自武、元之后，世增淫费，至乃掖庭三千，增级十四。
妖幸毁政之符，外姻乱邦之迹，前史载之详矣。
及光武中兴，斫雕为朴，六宫称号，唯皇后、贵人。
贵人金印紫绶，奉不过粟数十斛。
又置美人、宫人、采女三等，并无爵秩，岁时赏赐充给而已。
汉法常因八月筭人，遣中大夫与掖庭丞及相工，于洛阳乡中阅视良家童女，年十三以上，二十已下，姿色端丽，合法相者，载还后宫，择视可否，乃用登御。
所以明慎聘纳，详求淑哲。
translation: 
But at this time, the methods of beauty pageants and admissions were still relatively simple, and there were not many tricks to dress up and have fun.
Since Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty, successive dynasties have increased the cost of prostitution in the harem, so that there are as many as three thousand concubines in Yeting, and their grades have been increased to fourteenth grade.
The fact that coquettish favors undermined the government, and the signs of foreign relatives' monopolization of power and chaos in the country are recorded very clearly in history!
When Emperor Guangwu of the Eastern Han Dynasty revitalized the Han Dynasty, he abandoned the glitz and favored simplicity, Zhou Yi maintained simplicity, suppressed cleverness and hypocrisy, and worked hard to be honest. He reduced the titles of the Sixth Palace to only queens and nobles.
The noble man has a gold seal and a purple ribbon, but his salary is only a few dozen bushels of corn.
There are also three levels of beauties, court ladies, and beauties. They have no titles or official ranks. They only give money and goods as stipends on festivals every year.
The Han Dynasty stipulated that when the population tax was collected in August, the middle-ranking officials, Ye Tingcheng and Xiang Gong were sent to the countryside of Luoyang to review and inspect girls from innocent families. Those girls who were between thirteen and twenty years old, dignified and beautiful, and met the appearance standards stipulated by the palace for selecting concubines and maids, were included in the harem, and only those who could be selected were used by the emperor.
This is to make it clear that we should carefully recruit and accept good women who are not careless and who are careful and careful to pursue the good women who are graceful, intelligent and wise.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
明帝聿遵先旨，宫教颇修，登建嫔后，必先令德，内无出阃之言，权无私溺之授，可谓矫其敝矣。
向使国设外戚之禁，编著《甲令》，改正后妃之制，贻厥方来，岂不休哉！
虽御己有度，而防闲未笃，故孝章以下，渐用色授，恩隆好合，遂忘淄蠹。
自古虽主幼时艰，王家多衅，必委成冢宰，简求忠贤，未有专任妇人，断割重器。
唯秦羋太后始摄政事，故穰侯权重于昭王，家富于嬴国。
汉仍其谬，知患莫改。
东京皇统屡绝，权归女主，外立者四帝，临朝者六后，莫不定策帷帟，委事父兄，贪孩童以久其政，抑明贤以专其威。
任重道悠，利深祸速。身犯雾露于云台之上，家婴缧绁于圄犴之下。
湮灭连踵，倾辀继路。
而赴蹈不息，燋烂为期，终于陵夷大运，沧亡神宝。《诗》、《书》所叹，略同一揆。
故考列行迹，以为《皇后本纪》。
虽成败事异，而同居正号者，并列于篇。
其以私恩追尊，非当时所奉者，则随它事附出。
亲属别事，各依列传。
translation: 
Emperor Ming followed the rules of his ancestors and was very particular about the upbringing of the harem. When appointing concubines and queens, he must first emphasize their good moral character, so that internal conversations are not spread beyond the confines of the boudoir, and power is not given to each other due to personal favors. It can be said to have corrected the evils of the past.
Wouldn't it be great if we had banned relatives from participating in politics long ago, compiled it into the first article of the law, corrected the system of concubines, and passed it down to our descendants forever?
Although Emperor Ming had a size limit for his imperial concubines, he did not do enough to prevent promiscuity and corruption. Therefore, Emperor Zhang and his subordinates gradually gave status and power to their relatives based on pornography. Private love and favor flourished in the lingering relationship, so they forgot about the danger of pollution and corrosion.
Since ancient times, although the emperor was young, the times were difficult, and there were many signs of disaster in the royal family, he must rely on the governor to govern the country, control hundreds of officials, and distribute the affairs of the world to select and find loyal and virtuous talents. He did not trust women exclusively and cut off the fate of the country.
During the reign of King Zhao of Qin, the Queen Mother Mi began to serve as regent and handle state affairs. Therefore, the Queen Mother's younger brother, Ranghou Wei Ran, had more power than King Zhao, and his family wealth was in Qin.
The Han Dynasty followed this wrong practice and did not correct it despite knowing its consequences.
As a result, the royal line of the Eastern Han Dynasty was repeatedly severed, and power fell into the hands of the heroine. The four emperors who cited external sources were Emperor An, Emperor Zhi, Emperor Huan, and Emperor Ling. The empresses who served in charge of the court included Empress Dowager Zhang Di, Empress Dowager Hexi and Deng, Empress Dowager An Siyan, Empress Dowager Shunlie Liang, and Empress Dowager Huan Si Dou. The Empress Dowager, Lingsi, and the Sixth Empress all decided policies and strategies in their boudoirs and entrusted all state affairs to their fathers and brothers. They loved children and young masters so that they could rule for a long time, and suppressed and rejected wise and virtuous talents in order to specialize in government affairs and show their prestige.
They shoulder the great responsibility of the national economy and the people's livelihood, but they act leisurely and contentedly without being in a hurry, which has a serious and far-reaching impact and accelerates the coming of disaster. For example, Empress Dowager Huansi and Dou were ordered to move to Yuntai, Nangong, Luoyang by the imperial minister Cao Jiejiao. She suffered from the disease of fog and dew and lived in seclusion in the empty palace. Her father Dou Wu was executed, her family was arrested and imprisoned, and the three tribes were wiped out.
Like this, annihilations come one after another, and cars overturn one after another.
But there is still an endless stream of people rushing towards him, until he is exhausted. In the end, destiny gradually declined and the throne was lost. The "Book of Songs" and "Book of Books" lament about the same phenomenon.
Therefore, the assessment enumerated the traces of behavior and wrote "The Chronicles of the Queen".
Among them, although the facts of success and failure are different, those who live together with the right number are listed together in the chapter.
The title was added as a personal favor and was not used at the time, so it was written incidentally along with other matters.
As for relatives and other matters, let them all follow their own biographies.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
其余无所见，则系之此纪，以缵西京《外戚》云尔。
光武郭皇后讳圣通，真定槀人也。
为郡著姓。
父昌，让田宅财产数百万与异母弟，国人义之。
仕郡功曹。
娶真定恭王女，号郭主，生后及子况。
昌早卒。
郭主虽王家女，而好礼节俭，有母仪之德。
更始二年春，光武击王郎，至真定，因纳后，有宠。
及即位，以为贵人。
建武元年，生皇子彊。
帝善况小心谨慎，年始十六，拜黄门侍郎。
二年，贵人立为皇后，彊为皇太子，封况绵蛮侯。
以后弟贵重，宾客辐凑。
况恭谦下士，颇得声誉。
十四年，迁城门校尉。
其后，后以宠稍衰，数怀怨怼。
translation: 
Some have nothing to rely on and cannot be written down, such as Jia Guiren and Yu Meiren. They are tied to this record and inherit the style of the Western Han Dynasty's "Hanshu·Biography of Wife's Wife", that's all.
Queen Guangwu Guo's name was Shengtong, and she was from Zhending County.
It is a common surname in the county.
His father, Guo Chang, gave away millions of his land and property to his half-brother. People in the county thought he was very moral.
Guo Chang held the official position of meritorious officer in the county.
He married Liu Pu's daughter, Prince Zhending Gong, named Guo Zhu, and gave birth to his queen Guo Shengtong and his son Guo Kuang.
Guo Chang died early.
Although Lord Guo is a daughter of the Wang family, she is polite, frugal and has the virtues of a mother.
In the spring of the second year of Gengshi, Guangwu attacked Wang Lang and arrived at Zhending, where he was favored by his queen.
When Guangwu ascended the throne, he became a nobleman.
In the first year of Jianwu, the prince Liu Qiang was born.
Guangwu valued Guo Kuang's caution and prudence, so he appointed him as Huangmen's Minister just after he turned sixteen.
In the second year of Jianwu, Guiren was made queen, Liu Qiang was made crown prince, and Guo Kuang was granted the title of Silk Barbarian Marquis.
Because Guo Kuang was the queen's younger brother, he was very important and had many guests.
Guo Kuang is a respectful corporal and has a good reputation.
In the 14th year of Jianwu's reign, he was promoted to the rank of captain of the city gate.
After that, Queen Guo's favor with her gradually declined due to Guangwu, and she often harbored resentment and anger.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
十七年，遂废为中山王太后，进后中子右翊公辅为中山王，以常山郡益中山国。
徙封况大国，为阳安侯。
后从兄竟，以骑都尉从征伐有功，封为新郪侯，官至东海相。
竟弟匡为发干侯，官至太中大夫。
后叔父梁，早终，无子。其婿南阳陈茂，以恩泽封南侯。
二十年，中山王辅复徙封沛王，后为沛太后。
况迁大鸿胪。帝数幸其第，会公卿诸侯亲家饮燕，赏赐金钱缣帛，丰盛莫比，京师号况家为金穴。
二十六年，后母郭主薨，帝亲临丧送葬，百官大会，遣使者迎昌丧柩，与主合葬，追赠昌阳安侯印绶，谥曰思侯，二十八年，后薨，葬于北芒。
帝怜郭氏，诏况子璜尚淯阳公主，除璜为郎。
显宗即位，况与帝舅阴识、阴就并为特进，教授赏赐，恩宠俱渥。
礼待阴、郭，每事必均。
永平二年，况卒，赠赐甚厚，帝亲自临丧，谥曰节侯，子璜嗣。
元和三年，肃宗北巡狩，过真定，会诸郭，朝见上寿，引入倡饮甚欢。
以太牢具上郭主冢，赐粟万斛，钱五十万。
永元初，璜为长乐少府，子举为侍中，兼射声校尉。
及大将军窦宪被诛，举以宪女婿谋逆，故父子俱下狱死，家属徙合浦，宗族为郎吏者，悉免官。
新郪侯竟初为骑将，从征伐有功，拜东海相。永平中卒，子嵩嗣；嵩卒，追坐染楚王英事，国废。
建初二年，章帝绍封嵩子勤为伊亭侯，勤无子，国除。
translation: 
In the 17th year of Jianwu's reign, Queen Guo was deposed as the Queen Mother of Zhongshan. The queen's middle son, You Yigong Liu Fu, became the King of Zhongshan, and Changshan County was added to the Zhongshan Kingdom.
He moved to the great country of Guo Kuang and became the Marquis of Yang'an.
Queen Guo's cousin Guo Jing served as a cavalry captain in the Guangwu expedition and was named Marquis of the New Wife. He was promoted to the Prime Minister of the East China Sea.
Guo Jing's younger brother Guo Kuang was appointed Marquis of Faqian and reached the rank of Taizhong Dafu.
Queen Guo's uncle Guo Liang died young and had no children. His son-in-law Chen Mao of Nanyang was granted the title of Marquis of Nanyang for his kindness.
In the 20th year of Jianwu's reign, King Liu Fu of Zhongshan was granted the title of King of Pei, and Queen Guo became the Queen Mother of Pei.
Guo Kuang was promoted to Dahonglu, and Emperor Guangwu visited his official residence many times. He met with ministers, princes, and relatives to drink and have banquets. He was rewarded with money and silk, which was extremely rich. The capital of Luoyang called Guo Kuang's family the "Golden Cave."
In the twenty-sixth year of Jianwu's reign, Empress Guo's mother, Lord Guo, passed away. Emperor Guangwu personally mourned and buried her. All officials gathered in a large gathering, sent envoys to greet Guo Chang's coffin, and buried her with Lord Guo. He posthumously awarded Guo Chang the title of Marquis of Yang'an, and his posthumous title of Sihou. In the twenty-eighth year of Jianwu's reign, Queen Guo died and was buried in Beimang Mountain, Luoyang.
Emperor Guangwu loved the Guo family and ordered Guo Kuang's son Guo Huang to marry Princess Yuyang and appointed Guo Huang as a Langguan.
When Xianzong came to the throne, Guo Kuang and Xianzong's uncles Yinshi and Yinjiu worked together for special promotion. They were awarded many rewards and personal favors, and they were all very generous.
Treat Queen Yin and Queen Guo with courtesy and treat everything equally.
In the second year of Yongping reign of Emperor Ming Dynasty, Guo Kuang passed away. He received generous rewards and gifts. Emperor Ming Dynasty paid his condolences in person. He was given the posthumous title of Jiehou and his son Guo Huang succeeded him.
In the third year of Emperor Suzong's reign in Yuanhe, Suzong inspected the north. After Zhending, all the states gathered together to see Suzong and congratulate him on his birthday. They invited musicians to play music and the banquet was very joyful.
Pigs, sheep, and cattle were sacrificed to Guo's tomb, and he was rewarded with tens of thousands of grains and five hundred thousand coins.
In the early years of Emperor Yongyuan's reign, Guo Huang was the Shaofu of Changle, and his son Guo Ju was the Attendant, and also the Colonel of Shesheng.
In the fourth year of Emperor Yongyuan's reign, General Dou Xian conspired to commit rebellion and was executed. Guo Ju was imprisoned and died together with his father Guo Huang because Dou Xian's son-in-law was rebellious. His family members were exiled to Hepu for hard labor. Those whose clansmen were Lang officials were all removed from official positions.
The new wife, Marquis Guo Jing, first served as a cavalry captain in the conquest and worshiped the prime minister of the East China Sea. Emperor Ming died in Yongpingzhong, and his son Guo Song was the heir.
In the second year of Jianchu, Emperor Zhang Shao granted Guo Song's son Guo Qin the title of Marquis of Yiting. Guo Qin had no sons and the feudal state was removed.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
发干侯匡，官至太中大夫，建武三十年卒，子勋嗣；勋卒，子骏嗣，永平十三年，亦坐楚王英国，失国。
建初三年，复封骏为观都侯，卒，无子，国除。
郭氏侯者凡三人，皆绝国。
论曰：物之兴衰，情之起伏，理有固然矣。
而崇替去来之甚者，必唯宠惑乎？
当其接床第，承恩色，虽险情赘行，莫不德焉。及至移意爱，析嬿私，虽惠心妍状，愈献丑焉。
爱升，则天下不足容其高；欢队，故九服无所逃其命。
斯诚志士之所沉溺，君人之所抑扬，未或违之者也。
郭后以衰离见贬，恚怨成尤，而犹恩加别馆，增宠党戚。
至乎东海逡巡，去就以礼，使后世不见隆薄进退之隙，不亦光于古乎！
光烈阴皇后讳丽华，南阳新野人。
translation: 
Guo Kuang, Marquis of Faqian, was an official in Taizhong. Emperor Guangwu died in the 30th year of Jianwu, and his son Guo Xun was his heir.
In the third year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Emperor Zhang restored Guo Jun to the title of Marquis of Guandu. After his death, he had no children and the feudal state was removed.
The Guo clan granted the title of Hou Fan to three people: Guo Kuang, Guo Jing, and Guo Kuang, and all of them had no heirs.
Historians commented: The rise and fall of things and the ups and downs of human relationships have their own natural laws.
And the most obvious thing that comes and goes is probably the emperor's favor and seduction by women, right?
When he enjoys the tenderness of the bed, covets the love and beauty of the country, no matter how dangerous the situation or evil deeds, he does not think it is good; when the love changes and the personal relationship is separated, even though he has a beautiful intention and gorgeous appearance, he only feels ugly and disgusting.
When love rises, heaven cannot tolerate its height; when joy falls, even though the world is huge, there is no place where she can escape her life.
This is indeed what people with lofty ideals indulge in and people suppress, and nothing can be violated.
Empress Guo was demoted due to her decline in sex, and she was resentful. However, she was still able to stay in the villa and favor her brothers and families.
As for Guo Jing making his new wife Marquis and the Prime Minister of the East China Sea, he treated her with courtesy when she left, so that future generations would not see any trace of favor or humiliation. Isn't it also glorious in ancient times?
Queen Guanglieyin's name is Lihua, a new savage from Nanyang.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
初，光武适新野，闻后美，心悦之。
后至长安，见执金吾车骑甚盛，因叹曰： 仕宦当作执金吾，娶妻当得阴丽华。 更始元年六月，遂纳后于宛当成里，时年十九。
及光武为司隶校尉，方西之洛阳，令后归新野。
及邓奉起兵，后兄识为之将，后随家属徙淯阴，止于奉舍。
光武即位，令侍中傅俊迎后，与胡阳、宁平主诸宫人俱到洛阳，以后为贵人。
帝以后雅性宽仁，欲崇以尊位，后固辞，以郭氏有子，终不肯当，故遂立郭皇后。
建武四年，从征彭宠，生显宗于元氏。
九年，有盗劫杀后母邓氏及弟，帝甚伤之，乃诏大司空曰： 吾微贱之时，娶于阴氏，因将兵征伐，遂各别离。幸得安全，俱脱虎口。
以贵人有母仪之美，宜立为后，而固辞弗敢当，列于媵妾。
朕嘉其义让，许封诸弟。
translation: 
At first, Emperor Guangwu came to Xinye and heard that Yin Lihua was very beautiful. He was very envious of her and secretly liked her.
When Emperor Guangwu arrived in Chang'an, he saw the magnificent display of Zhijinwu's carriages and horses, so he said with admiration: When you are an official, you must be Zhijinwu, and when you want to marry a wife, you must marry Yin Lihua. In June of the first year of Gengshi, he married Yin Lihua in Dangchengli, Wancheng, when she was nineteen years old.
When Guangwu became the captain of the Sili school and was about to go west to Luohui for education, he asked Yin Lihua to return to her natal family in Xinye.
Deng Feng raised his army, and Yin Lihua's brother Yin Shi became the general of Deng Feng's army. Yin Lihua moved with her family to Puyuyang and lived in Deng Feng's home.
Guangwu ascended the throne as emperor, so he sent his servant Fu Jun to welcome Yin Lihua and the princesses of Huyang and Ningping. All the palace officials arrived in Luoyang and made Yin Lihua a noble lady.
Guangwu thought that Yin Guiren was elegant, generous and benevolent, and wanted to give her the honorary position. Yin Guiren firmly refused, because the Guo family had a son, so she did not dare to take the throne, so she made her Queen Guo.
In the fourth year of Jianwu, Yin Guiren followed Guangwu to conquer Peng Chong and gave birth to Emperor Xianzong Ming in the Yuan family.
In the ninth year of Jianwu, bandits robbed and killed Yin Guiren's mother Deng and his younger brother Yin Jinjin. Guangwu was very sad and ordered Da Sikong to say: When I was a humble man, I married Yin Lihua. Because I led the army to conquer, we were separated. Fortunately, we were safe and escaped from the tiger's mouth.
Originally, Yin Guiren had the beauty of maternal grace and should be made a queen, but she refused to do so and became a concubine.
I greatly appreciated her humility and promised to entrust her brothers with enfeoffments.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
未及爵士，而遭患逢祸，母子同命，愍伤于怀。
《小雅》曰： 将恐将惧，惟予与汝。
将安将乐。汝转弃予。
风人之戒，可不慎乎？
其追爵谥贵人父陆为宣恩哀侯，弟为宣义恭侯，以弟就嗣哀侯后。
及尸柩在堂，使太中大夫拜授印绶，如在国列侯礼。
魂而有灵，嘉其宠荣！
十七年，废皇后郭氏而立贵人。
制诏三公曰： 皇后怀执怨怼，数违教令，不能抚循它子，训长异室。
宫闱之内，若见鹰鹯。
既无《关雎》之德，而有吕、霍之风，岂可托以幼孤，恭承明祀。
今遣大司徒涉、宗正吉持节，其上皇后玺绶。
阴贵人乡里良家，归自微贱。
自我不见，于今三年。
宜奉宗庙，为天下母。
translation: 
But before I could be conferred a title or land, I suffered a disaster. Mother and son were born together, which made me feel pity and pain.
"Xiaoya" says: I will be afraid and will be afraid, but I will give it to you.
It will be safe and happy, you will give it up.
Is it okay to be careless with Feng Ren’s warning?
Now the posthumous title of Yin Guiren's father Yin Lu is the Marquis of Xuan En Ai, his younger brother Yin Yanjin is the Marquis of Xuanyi Gong, and his younger brother Yin Jiu is the heir to the Hou Hou Ai.
With the corpse's coffin in the hall, the Taizhong doctor was asked to pay his respects and give him the seal and ribbon, just like the current etiquette of feudal princes.
Soul and spirit, accept this favor!
In the 17th year of Guangwu's reign, Queen Guo was deposed and Yin Gui was made queen.
The imperial edict was issued to Sangong: "Queen Guo was resentful and violated the decree many times. She could not appease her son, but she taught and taught others to worship others."
Inside the palace, it seemed as if a ferocious eagle or raptor had been discovered.
Without the virtuous and virtuous character of "Guanyong", but with the demeanor of Empress Lu and Empress Huo, how can it be entrusted to a young king, a six-foot orphan, to inherit the sacrifices of the gods in a respectful manner?
Now send the chief situ Daishe and Zongzheng Liu Ji to hold the talisman and present it to the queen's seal and ribbon.
A good girl from Yingui's hometown married me when I was humble.
It’s been exactly three years since we couldn’t see each other!
She should be worshiped in the ancestral temple as the mother of the world.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
主者详案旧典，时上尊号。
异常之事，非国休福，不得上寿称庆。 后在位恭俭，少嗜玩，不喜笑谑。
性仁孝，多矜慈。
七岁失父，虽已数十年，言及未曾不流涕。
帝见，常叹息。
显宗即位，尊后为皇太后。
永平三年冬，帝从太后幸章陵，置酒旧宅，会阴、邓故人诸家子孙，并受赏赐。
七年，崩，在位二十四年，年六十，合葬原陵。
明帝性孝爱，追慕无已。
十七年正月，当谒原陵，夜梦先帝、太后如平生欢。
既寤，悲不能寐，即案历，明旦日吉，遂率百官及故客上陵。
其日，降甘露于陵树，帝令百官采取以荐。
会毕，帝从席前伏御床，视太后镜奁中物，感动悲涕，令易脂泽装具。
translation: 
Those who organize this event must follow the rules and regulations of the previous generation in detail and present the honorary title in a timely manner.
Extraordinary events are not a blessing to the country and cannot be celebrated in longevity. Queen Yin is respectful and frugal in her reign. She rarely likes fun and does not like to joke or laugh.
He has a kind and filial temperament, and is compassionate and compassionate.
My father died when I was seven years old. Even though it has been decades, I still cry and sob every time I talk about it.
When Guangwu saw him, he often sighed with him.
Emperor Xianzong ascended the throne and respected Queen Yin as the empress dowager.
In the winter of the third year of Emperor Yongping's reign in the Ming Dynasty, the Emperor arrived in Zhangling from the Empress Dowager and set up an old wine house. He met the Empress Dowager Yin and the descendants of the Deng family, the Empress Dowager Yin's mother, and received rewards.
In the seventh year of Yongping, Queen Mother Yin passed away. She reigned for twenty-four years at the age of sixty. She was buried in the original mausoleum with Guangwu.
Emperor Ming was filial and loving, and he was full of admiration and admiration.
In the first month of the seventeenth year of Yongping, when I was visiting Yuanling, I dreamed of Guangwu, the Queen Mother, and the usual happy scenes at night.
When I woke up, I was too sad to fall asleep. He checked the almanac and found out that the next day was a good day, so he led hundreds of officials, relatives and friends to pay homage to the original mausoleum.
On this day, nectar fell in the woods of the cemetery. Emperor Ming ordered all officials to collect nectar to worship the original mausoleum.
After the visit, the emperor lay down on the royal bed in front of the banquet and looked at the items in the mirror box used by the Queen Mother for dressing. He was moved to tears and ordered the replacement of rouge, balm and other cosmetics.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
左右皆泣，莫能仰视焉。
明德马皇后讳某，伏波将军援之小女也。
少丧父母。
兄客卿惠敏早夭，母蔺夫人悲伤发疾慌惚。
后时年十岁，干理家事，敕制僮御，内外咨禀，事同成人。
初，诸家莫知者，后闻之，咸叹异焉。
后尝久疾，太夫人令筮之，筮者曰： 此女虽有患状而当大贵，兆不可言也。 后又呼相者使占诸女，见后，大惊曰： 我必为此女称臣。
然贵而少子，若养它子者得力，乃当逾于所生。
初，援征五溪蛮，卒于师，虎贲中郎将梁松、黄门侍郎窦固等因谮之，由是家益失势，又数为权贵所侵侮。
后从兄严不胜忧愤，白太夫人绝窦氏婚，求进女掖庭。
translation: 
Everyone was crying and couldn't look up.
Empress Ma of Mingde, whose name has been lost in history, was the daughter of General Fubo Ma Yuan.
Lose less parents.
His elder brother, Ma Keqing Minhui, died young, and his stepmother, Mrs. Lin, fell ill from grief and was in a trance.
At this time, Queen Ma was ten years old. She took care of the housework, managed and educated the child servants. The child servants asked her for instructions and reports on everything, just like an adult.
At first, everyone didn't know about it, but later they heard about it and were amazed.
Empress Ma had been ill for a long time, and the Dowager asked for a divination. The fortune teller said: Although this woman is ill, she will eventually become a noble person, and the auspicious omens shown in the divination are simply wonderful. Later, he asked the fortune teller to look at the girls. When the fortune teller saw Queen Ma, he was greatly surprised and said, "I must surrender to this girl."
However, she is rich and has few sons. If she can raise other people's sons well, they will be better than her own.
In the past, Empress Ma's father, Ma Yuan, was on an expedition against the Wuxi barbarians and died of illness in the army. Liang Song, the general of Huben, and Dou Gu, the minister of Huangmen, slandered him in front of Emperor Guangwu. As a result, the family lost power and was repeatedly insulted by the powerful.
Queen Ma's cousin Ma Yan was extremely worried and angry. He told the dowager to sever the marriage relationship between the Dou family and asked the daughter to be sent to Yeting.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
乃上书曰： 臣叔父援孤恩不报，而妻子特获恩全，戴仰陛下，为天为父。
人情既得不死，便欲求福。
窃闻太子、诸王妃匹未备，援有三女，大者十五，次者十四，小者十三，仪状发肤，上中以上。
皆孝顺小心，婉静有礼。
愿下相工，简其可否。
如有万一，援不朽于黄泉矣。
又援姑姊妹并为成帝婕妤，葬于延陵。
臣严幸得蒙恩更生，冀因缘先姑，当充后宫。 由是选后入太子宫。
时年十三。
奉承阴后，傍接同列，礼则修备，上下安之。
遂见宠异，常居后堂。
显宗即位，以后为贵人。
时后前母姊女贾氏亦以选入，生肃宗。
帝以后无子，命令养之。
谓曰： 人未必当自生子，但患爱养不至耳。 后于是尽心抚育，劳悴过于所生。
肃宗亦孝性淳笃，恩性天至，母子慈爱，始终无纤介之间。
translation: 
He wrote to the emperor and said: My uncle Ma Yuan has failed to repay his kindness, but my wife has been saved by the kindness. I am grateful to your majesty, and I am a father to heaven.
Since human feelings are immortal, I want to seek happiness.
I heard privately that the prince and the kings' concubines have not been decided yet. My uncle Ma Yuan has three daughters. The eldest is fifteen years old, the second is fourteen, and the younger is thirteen. They have average appearance, hair and skin above average.
They are all filial and careful, Wanluan is quiet and polite.
I hope to send someone to help you decide whether it is possible or not.
If he is chosen, Ma Yuan will be immortal under Jiuquan.
The two sisters, Aunt Ma Yuan, became Emperor Jieyu and were buried in Yanling.
My Majesty, I, Ma Yan, am fortunate enough to be reborn by grace. I hope that due to my relationship with my late aunt, Ma Yuan’s daughter can serve in the harem. Therefore, Queen Ma was selected to enter the crown prince's palace.
He was thirteen years old.
Serving Queen Yin, interacting with the concubines of the same row, the etiquette rules are very thoughtful, and everyone is in peace.
As a result, he gained special favor and often lived in the inner room of the back hall.
Emperor Xianzong ascended the throne and Queen Ma became a noble.
At this time, Jia, the daughter of Queen Ma's ex-mother's sister, was also selected to enter the palace and give birth to Suzong.
Emperor Ming ordered Empress Ma to raise Suzong because she had no children.
And she said to Queen Ma: "You don't have to have your own son, you just have to raise another's son without taking care of him." Empress Ma devoted herself to raising Su Zong, working harder than her own children.
Suzong also had a filial nature, a sincere and sincere nature, a natural kindness, loving mother and son, and there was never any gap as small as a fibrous heart disease.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
后常以皇嗣未广，每怀忧叹，荐达左右，右恐不及。
后宫有进见者，每加慰纳。
若数所宠引，辄增隆遇。
永平三年春，有司奏立长秋宫，帝未有所言。
皇太后曰： 马贵人德冠后宫，即其人也。 遂立为皇后。
先是数日，梦有小飞虫无数赴着身，又入皮肤中而复飞出。
即正位宫闱，愈自谦肃。
身长七尺二寸，方口，美发。
能诵《易》，好读《春秋》、《楚辞》，尤善《周官》、《董仲舒书》。
常衣大练，裙不加缘。
朔望诸姬主朝请，望见后袍衣疏粗，反以为绮縠，就视，乃笑。
后辞曰： 此缯特宜染色，故用之耳。 六宫莫不叹息。
translation: 
Empress Ma was often deeply saddened by the fact that the emperor did not have many heirs, so she would recommend concubines to her to win the emperor's favor, fearing that she would not do enough.
If any of the concubines in the harem are lucky enough, they will receive condolences and rewards.
If you are favored by the emperor many times, you will often get high treatment.
In the spring of the third year of Emperor Yongping's reign, the ministers petitioned for the appointment of a queen, but Emperor Ming said nothing.
The Empress Dowager said: Ma Guiren's virtue is the head of the harem, and he is a suitable candidate to be established as the queen. So she was made queen.
A few days before she was crowned queen, Queen Ma dreamed of countless bugs flying around her body, getting into her skin and flying out again.
Now that she has been established as a queen and is in charge of the palace, she becomes even more humble and respectful.
She is seven feet two inches tall, with a square mouth and beautiful hair.
She can recite the "Book of Changes" and is good at reading "Spring and Autumn" and "Chu Ci", especially "Zhou Rites" and "Dong Zhongshu Shu".
She often wears thick white silk skirts with no hems.
On the first and fifteenth day of the lunar month, the concubines and concubines attended the court meetings in the Spring and Autumn Period. When they saw Queen Ma's robes being sparse and rough, they thought they were fine and wrinkled. When they came closer to take a closer look, they couldn't help but laugh.
Empress Ma told them: "This kind of plain silk is particularly suitable for dyeing, that's why I use it." All the concubines in the Sixth Palace sighed.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
帝尝幸苑囿离宫，后辄以风邪露雾为戒，辞意款备，多见详择。
帝幸濯龙中，并召诸才人，下邳王已下皆在侧，请呼皇后。
帝笑曰： 是家志不好乐，虽来无欢。 是以游娱之事希尝从焉。
十五年，帝案地图，将封皇子，悉半诸国。
后见而言曰： 诸子裁食数县，千制不已俭乎？ 帝曰： 我子岂宜与先帝子等乎？
岁给二千万足矣。 时楚狱连年不断，囚相证引，坐系者甚众。
后虑其多滥，乘间言及，恻然。帝感悟之，夜起仿偟，为思所纳，卒多有所降宥。
时诸将奏事及公卿较议难平者，帝数以试后。
后辄分解趣理，各得其情。
每于侍执之际，辄言及政事，多所毗补，而未尝以家私干。
故宠敬日隆，始终无衰。
及帝崩，肃宗即位，尊后曰皇太后。
诸贵人当徙居南宫，太后感析别之怀，各赐王赤绶，加安车驷马，白越三千端，杂帛二千匹，黄金十斤。
translation: 
Emperor Ming often visited the palace to leave the palace, and Empress Ma often warned her not to be exposed to wind, evil, dew or mist. Her words were sweet and beautiful, and most of them were adopted.
Emperor Ming went to Zhuolong Garden in the Beigong to visit and summoned many concubines and concubines. All the relatives of King Xiapi and below were also around, and he asked Queen Ma to be invited as well.
Emperor Ming smiled and said: She has no interest in entertainment, and she will not be happy even if she comes. Therefore, Empress Ma rarely participated in sightseeing and entertainment matters with Emperor Ming.
In the fifteenth year of Yongping, Emperor Ming looked at the map and planned to enfeoff the princes and reduce the territories of all the feudal states by half.
When Empress Ma saw it, she said: "Aren't you already frugal with the legal system by reducing the number of towns and counties?" Emperor Ming said: How can our son be equal to the son of the late emperor?
A supply of 20 million a year is enough. At this time, due to the rebellion of Chu King Liu Ying, which continued year after year, the prisoners cited each other, and thousands of people were imprisoned.
Empress Ma was worried that the use of criminal law would be excessive, so she took advantage of the opportunity to talk about it tactfully. Emperor Ming was moved and woke up. He got up at night and thought about the words Empress Ma had adopted. Finally, many prisoners were pardoned and pardoned.
At that time, the issues reported by the generals and the examination and evaluation of the ministers were rarely balanced and stable. Emperor Ming used it to test the empress many times.
Empress Ma analyzed and explained many times, and all of them were reasonable and humane.
Empress Ma often talked about political affairs when she was accompanying Emperor Ming to prepare for the situation, which was of great help to him. However, she never asked for official blessings due to family affairs.
Therefore, Emperor Ming's love and respect for her grew stronger and never declined.
When Emperor Ming died, Suzong ascended the throne and honored Queen Ma as the empress dowager.
The nobles should move to Nangong. The empress dowager, feeling the feeling of farewell, rewarded each of them with a red ribbon equal to that enjoyed by the kings, plus carriages and horses, three thousand pieces of white Yue cloth, two thousand pieces of miscellaneous silk, and ten pounds of gold.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
自撰《显宗起居注》，削去兄防参医药事。
帝请曰： 黄门舅旦夕供养且一年，既无褒异，又不录勤劳，无乃过乎！ 太后曰： 吾不欲令后世闻先帝数亲后宫之家，故不著也。
建初元年，帝欲封爵诸舅，太后不听。
明年夏，大旱，言事者以为不封外戚之故，有司因此上奏，宜依旧典。
太后诏曰： 凡言事者皆欲媚朕以要福耳。
昔王氏五侯同日俱封，其时黄雾四塞，不闻澍雨之应。又田蚡、窦婴，宠贵横恣，倾覆之祸，为世所传。
故先帝防慎舅氏，不令在枢机之位。
诸子之封，裁令半楚、淮阳诸国，常谓 我子不当与先帝子等 。今有司奈何欲以马氏比阴氏乎！
translation: 
She wrote "Notes on the Daily Life of Xianzong", excluding her brother Ma Fang from participating in the imperial doctor's diagnosis and supply of medicine to the emperor.
Suzong please report? The Empress Dowager said: "Uncle Huangmen has served his father day and night for a year. He neither praised him outstandingly nor recorded his hard work. It is too embarrassing!" The Empress Dowager said: I don't want future generations to know that the late emperor had been close to the empress's family many times, so I will not record it.
In the first year of Jianchu's reign, Emperor Zhang wanted to ennoble the titles of several uncles, but Empress Dowager Ma did not allow it.
In the summer of the next year, there was a severe drought. People who analyzed this disaster thought that it was because the foreign relatives were not granted the title of marquis, so the people in charge wrote to request that the foreign relatives should be granted the title of marquis according to the old Han Dynasty regulations.
During the reign of Emperor Jing, Queen Wang and her brother Tian Chong were separated and granted the title of Marquis of Wu'an, making them prime minister. They died of illness.
Before his death, he whispered to King Ba Shang of Huainan and was almost executed by the Emperor Wu clan. This is the calamity of being overthrown due to being arrogant and self-willed, which is well known to the world and should be taken as a warning.
Therefore, when the late emperor was still alive, he carefully guarded against his uncle and did not allow him to serve as the prime minister or minister of the imperial court or an important cardinal official.
The princes' fiefdoms were only half of the fiefdoms of Chu and Huaiyang. It is often said that my son should not be equated with the late emperor's son. Why do the people in charge now compare my Ma family to the Yin family?


Chunk 15: 
original: 
吾为天下母，而身服大练，食不求甘，左右但着帛布，无香薰之饰者，欲身率下也。
以为外亲见之，当伤心自敕，但笑言太后素好俭。
前过濯龙门上，见外家问起居者，车如流水，马如游龙，仓头衣绿褠，领袖正白，顾视御者，不及远矣。
故不加谴怒，但绝岁用而已，冀以默愧其心，而犹懈怠，无忧国忘家之虑。
知臣莫若君，况亲属乎？
吾岂可上负先帝之旨，下亏先人之德，重袭西京败亡之祸哉！ 固不许。
帝省诏悲叹，复重请曰： 汉兴，舅氏之封侯，犹皇子之为王也。
太后诚存谦虚，奈何令臣独不加恩三舅乎？
且卫尉年尊，两校尉有大病，如令不讳，使臣长抱刻骨之恨。
宜及吉时，不可稽留。
太后报曰： 吾反复念之，思令两善。
岂徒欲获谦让之名，而使帝受不外施之嫌哉！
昔窦太后欲封王皇后之兄，丞相条侯言受高祖约，无军功，非刘氏不侯。
今马氏无功于国，岂得与阴、郭中兴之后等邪？
常观富贵之家，禄位重叠，犹再实之木，其根必伤。
且人所以愿封侯者，欲上奉祭祀，下求温饱耳。
今祭祀则受四方之珍，衣食则蒙御府余资，斯岂不足，而必当得一县乎？
吾计之孰矣，勿有疑也。
夫至孝之行，安亲为上。今数遭变异，谷价数倍，忧惶昼夜，不安坐卧，而欲先营外封，违慈母之拳拳乎！
translation: 
As the mother of the country, I take Dabai Zhuan and do not seek sweet food. The people around me only wear silk cloth, without rouge, gouache, incense and other embellishments. This is to set an example for the world.
They thought that the foreigners would be sad when they saw this, and restrained themselves. Unexpectedly, they only laughed and said that the Queen Mother always liked frugality.
When I passed by Zhuolongmen, I saw the people living in my house. The cars were like flowing water, the horses were like swimming dragons, and the servants were wearing green sleeves, and the collar and sleeves were pure white. But when I saw the driver for me, I was very different from them.
I didn't criticize or get angry, I just cut off their fees, hoping that they would secretly feel ashamed, but they still slacked off and did not worry about their country and their home.
No one knows his subjects better than the king, let alone their relatives?
Can I disobey the late emperor's will at the top, harm the virtues of my ancestors at the bottom, and repeat the tragedy of Lu Lu, Lu Chan, Dou Ying, Huo Yu and other relatives who were killed and defeated in Xijing? He was determined not to let Emperor Zhang confer titles on his uncles.
Emperor Zhang sighed with sadness after reading the edict from the Empress Dowager, and asked the Empress Dowager again: "When the Han Dynasty rises, the uncle's family is granted the title of marquis, just like a prince is granted the title of king."
The Queen Mother does have the virtue of humility. How can I bear the reputation of being unfavorable to my three uncles?
Besides, my uncle Ma Liao, the guard, is very old, and my uncles Ma Fang and Ma Guang, the two captains of the school, are seriously ill. If anything happens to me, it will make me deeply regret it!
You should take advantage of an auspicious day to ennoble your uncle's family name, and don't delay it.
The Queen Mother replied: I have thought about it repeatedly and want to do both things well.
Do I want to gain a reputation for humility and expose the emperor to the suspicion of not showing favor to his uncle?
In the past, Empress Dowager Dou wanted to make Wang Xin, the brother of Emperor Jing and Queen, but Prime Minister Tiaohou said that as agreed by Emperor Gaozu, without military merit, the son of the Liu family would not be granted the title of Marquis.
Now that I, the Ma family, have done nothing for the country, how can I be the same as the Yin family and the Guo family during the Zhongxing Dynasty?
I often see wealthy families with overlapping positions, like trees bearing second fruit. If the load is too heavy, its roots will be damaged.
Moreover, the fundamental reason why people want to be granted a title of marquis is that they want to have rich items to offer sacrifices to the gods and ancestors of heaven and earth, so that they and their descendants can live a life of food and clothing.
Now the priests of my Ma family enjoy the delicacies from all over the world, and have enough food and clothing with the imperial salary. Isn't this enough, and do they need to be granted a title and a city to eat?
I've thought it over again and again, and I don't have any doubts anymore. ah!
The best act of filial piety is to provide peace of mind to one's relatives. Now we have experienced several mutations, and the price of grain has increased several times. I am worried and frightened day and night, and I am restless. But you want to make a marquis to your relatives first. Doesn't this violate the sincerity of your loving mother?


Chunk 16: 
original: 
吾素刚急，有匈中气，不可不顺也。
若阴阳调和，边境清静，然后行子之志。
吾但当含饴弄孙，不能复关政矣。
时，新平主家御者失火，延及北阁后殿。
太后以为己过，起居不欢。
时当谒原陵，自引守备不慎，惭见陵园，遂不行，初，太夫人葬，起坟微高，太后以为言，兄廖等即时减削。
其外亲有谦素义行者，辄假借温言，赏以财位。
如有纤介，则先见严恪之色，然后加谴。
其美军服不轨法度者，便绝属籍，遣归田里。
广平、巨鹿、乐成王车骑朴素，无金银之饰，帝以白太后，太后即赐钱各五百万。
于是内外从化，被服如一，诸家惶恐，倍于永平时。
乃置织室，蚕于濯龙中，数往观视，以为娱乐。
translation: 
I have always been strong and impatient, and I have a lot of anger in my chest, so I can’t let it go!
If the yin and yang are coordinated in the future and the border defense is fine, then implement your plan.
I only care about my grandchildren and can no longer care about government affairs.
At this time, the coachman of the owner of Xinping caught fire and burned to the back hall of the North Pavilion.
The Queen Mother thought it was her fault and was unhappy in daily life.
At that time, I wanted to visit the original mausoleum. I blamed myself for not being careful in guarding the mausoleum. I was ashamed of the mausoleum, so I did not go. At first, when the Queen Mother was buried, the tomb was raised slightly higher. The Queen Mother put forward suggestions, and the Queen Mother's brother Ma Liao and others immediately made reductions.
If the foreign relatives are modest, simple and righteous, they will give them gentle words and reward them with property to improve their status.
If there is anything wrong with the conduct, first show a strict and cautious expression, and then condemn it.
Those who made their vehicles luxurious, beautiful and deviated from the law would have their clan membership cut off and sent back to the fields.
The carriages and mounts of kings Guangping, Julu and Lecheng were simple and without gold and silver decorations. Emperor Zhang told the Queen Mother, who immediately gave each of them five million yuan.
So the people inside and outside followed suit, and the quilts and quilts were the same on the outside and inside. Every family was cautious and did not dare to be extravagant. Their frugality far exceeded that of the Yongping period of Emperor Ming.
So a weaving room was set up and silkworms were raised in Zhuolong Garden. People went there frequently to watch them for entertainment.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
常与帝旦夕言道政事，乃教授诸小王，论议经书，述叙平生，雍和终日。
四年，天下丰稔，方垂无事，帝遂封三舅廖、防、光为列侯。
并辞让，愿就关内侯。
太后闻之，曰： 圣人设教，各有其方，知人情性莫能齐也。
吾少壮时，但慕竹帛，志不顾命。
今虽已老，而复 戒之在得 ，故日夜惕厉，思自降损。
居不求安，食不念饱。
冀乘此道，不负先帝。
所以化导兄弟，共同斯志，欲令瞑目之日，无所复恨。
何意老志复不从哉？万年之日长恨矣！ 廖等不得已，受封爵而退位归第焉。
太后其年寝疾，不信巫祝小医，数赖绝祷祀。
translation: 
The Queen Mother often discussed political affairs with Emperor Zhang day and night, taught the young kings, commented on scriptures, and recounted her life experiences. Yonghe lived in harmony all day long.
In the fourth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, there was a good harvest in the world and nothing happened in the border areas. Emperor Zhang then made his three uncles, Ma Liao, Ma Fang and Ma Guang, marquises.
They all resigned, and if they wished, they would be granted the title of Marquis within the pass.
Queen Mother Ma heard about it and said: Sages set up education and adopt different methods for different objects, knowing that people's tastes and spirits are not uniform.
When I was young, I only envied the ancients for leaving their names on bamboo and silk books, which would last for thousands of years, without considering the length of my life.
Although I am older now, I still warn myself not to be greedy and stingy, so I am alert to dangers day and night, always trying to suppress myself and reduce losses to avoid mistakes.
Don't ask for too much comfort in your home, and don't ask for too much beauty in your food.
I hope to live along this path and live up to the late emperor's expectations.
It is also used to inspire and induce brothers to hold on to this ambition together, so that when they die, they will have no regrets.
Now you are willing to be knighted. Unexpectedly, my long-cherished wish still cannot be fulfilled by your obedience!
I can only hate Jiuquan forever! Maliao had no choice but to abdicate immediately after accepting the title and returned to his own palace, regardless of political affairs. This year, Queen Mother Ma was seriously ill. She did not believe in witchcraft and prayed for little doctors, and ordered many times not to ask God to pray.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
至六月，崩。
在位二十三年，年四十余。
合葬显节陵。
贾贵人，南阳人。
建武末选入太子宫，中元二年生肃宗，而显宗以为贵人。
帝既为太后所养，专以马氏为外家，故贵人不登极位，贾氏亲族无受宠荣者。
及太后崩，乃策书加贵人王赤绶，安车一驷，永巷宫人二百，御府杂帛二万匹，大司农黄金千斤，钱二千万。
诸史并阙后事，故不知所终。
章德窦皇后讳某，扶风平陵人，大司空融之曾孙也。
祖穆，父勋，坐事死，事在《窦融传》。
勋尚东海恭王彊女沘阳公主，后其长女也。
家既废坏，数呼相工问息耗，见后者皆言当大尊贵，非臣妾容貌。
年六岁能书，亲家皆奇之。
translation: 
By June, he died.
He reigned for twenty-three years and died in his forties.
They were buried together in Xianjie Mausoleum.
Jia Guiren is from Nanyang.
At the end of Guangwu and Jianwu, he was elected to the Taigong Palace. In the second year of Guangwu Zhongyuan, Emperor Suzong Zhang was born. Emperor Xianzong Ming regarded Jia as his noble person.
Since Emperor Zhang was raised by Empress Dowager Ma, he regarded the Ma family as his maternal family. Therefore, the Jia nobles did not ascend to the position of empress, and the Jia family members were not favored.
When Empress Dowager Ma passed away, Emperor Zhang sent a letter to the emperor and added the red ribbon of the noble prince, the prince, to a chariot, two hundred officials and maidservants from the Yongxiang palace, twenty thousand pieces of miscellaneous silk from the imperial palace, and a thousand catties of gold and twenty million yuan from the chief minister.
Various history books do not record Jia Guiren's funeral, so we don't know her final outcome.
Empress Zhang Dedou was born in Pingling, Fufeng, and the great-grandson of the great Sikong Dourong.
Grandfather Dou Mu and father Dou Xun died due to accidents, which are recorded in "The Biography of Dou Rong".
Dou Xun married Princess Pubiyang, the daughter of Liu Qiang, Prince Gong of the East China Sea, and Queen Dou was the eldest daughter of Princess Pubiyang.
After Dou Xun died and his family was in ruins, he called his minister many times to inquire about good and evil news. Everyone who saw Queen Dou said that she must be a noble lady and not an ordinary official's wife or concubine.
Queen Dou was able to read and write at the age of six, which surprised her in-laws and relatives.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
建初二年，后与女弟俱以选例入见长乐宫，进止有序，风容甚盛。
肃宗先闻后有才色，数以讯诸姬傅。
及见，雅以为美，马太后亦异焉，因入掖庭，见于北宫章德殿。
后性敏给，倾心承接，称誉日闻。
明年，遂立为皇后，妹为贵人。
七年，追爵谥后父勋为安成思侯。
后宠幸殊特，专固后宫。
初，宋贵人生皇太子庆，梁贵人生和帝。
后既无子，并疾忌之，数间于帝，渐致疏嫌。
因诬宋贵人挟邪媚道，遂自杀，废庆为清河王，语在《庆传》。
梁贵人者，褒亲愍侯梁竦之女也。
少失母，为伯母舞阴长公主所养。
年十六，亦以建初二年与中姊俱选入掖庭为贵人。
四年，生和帝。
后养为己子。欲专名外家而忌梁氏。
八年，乃作飞书以陷竦，竦坐诛，贵人姊妹以忧卒。
自是宫房惵息，后爱日隆。
及帝崩，和帝即位，尊后为皇太后。皇太后临朝，尊母沘阳公主为长公主，益汤沐邑三千户。
兄宪，弟笃、景，并显贵，擅威权，后遂密谋不轨，永元四年，发觉被诛。
九年，太后崩，未及葬，而梁贵人姊嫕上书陈贵人枉殁之状。
太尉张酺、司徒刘方、司空张奋上奏，依光武黜吕太后故事，贬太后尊号，不宜合葬先帝。
translation: 
In the second year of Emperor Zhang's reign, both Queen Dou and her sister were sent to Changle Palace. They behaved according to the rules and had outstanding demeanor and appearance.
Emperor Zhang heard that Empress Dou was talented and beautiful, so he asked many concubines and mothers about her.
When they met, they thought it was very beautiful. Empress Dowager Ma also thought it was very strange, so she entered the Yeting where the concubines lived and saw her in the Zhangde Hall of the North Palace.
Queen Dou was quick-witted by nature, wholeheartedly entertained, and socialized well, so her good reputation spread day by day.
In March of the third year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, she was established as a queen and her younger sister was a noble.
In the seventh year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, his father Dou Xun, posthumously named Empress Dou, was granted the posthumous title of Marquis of An Chengsi.
Queen Dou was extremely favored and had the exclusive love of the harem.
At first, Song Gui gave birth to the crown prince Liu Qing, and Liang Gui gave birth to the Emperor He.
Queen Dou had no children and was jealous of the nobles of Song and Liang. She often spoke ill of them in front of Emperor Zhang, causing them to be gradually alienated and disliked by Emperor Zhang.
So he further falsely accused the noble people of Song Dynasty of engaging in crooked ways. The noble people of Song Dynasty committed suicide and deposed the crown prince Liu Qing as King of Qinghe. This was recorded in the "Biography of Liu Qing".
Liang Guiren, the daughter of Liang Song, the Marquis of Baoqin and Min.
He lost his mother at a young age and was raised by his aunt Guangwu's daughter Liang Song and his wife Wuyang Princess.
At the age of sixteen, in the second year of Jianwu, he and his middle sister were both elected to Yeting as nobles.
Emperor He was born in the fourth year of Jianwu.
Queen Dou raised her as her own son, and wanted to regard the Dou family as her maternal family and hate the Liang family.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, Empress Dou framed Liang Song with an anonymous letter. Liang Song was found guilty and executed, and Liang Guiren's sisters died of grief and anger.
From then on, the palace held its breath in fear, and Queen Dou's favor grew.
When Emperor Zhang died, Emperor He ascended the throne. Empress Dou was honored as the empress dowager. When the empress dowager came to the court, she honored her mother, Princess Biyang, as the eldest princess, and gained 3,000 households in Tangmuyi.
The elder brother Dou Xian, the younger brothers Dou Du and Dou Jing, all had a distinguished position and specialized in authority, and later they even conspired against each other. In the fourth year of Emperor Yongyuan's reign, he was found to have been executed.
In the ninth year of Yongyuan, Empress Dowager Dou passed away and before she had time to bury her, Liang Guiren's sister Liang wrote a letter stating the reason why Guiren died in vain.
Taiwei Zhang Youfu, Situ Liu Fang, and Sikong Zhang Fen submitted a memorial, following the precedent of Guangwu deposing Empress Dowager Lu, they demoted the title of Empress Dowager Dou and considered it inappropriate to be buried with Emperor Zhang.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
百官亦多上言者。
帝手诏曰： 窦氏虽不遵法度，而太后常自减损。
朕奉事十年，深惟大义，礼，臣子无贬尊上之文。
恩不忍离，义不忍亏。
案前世上官太后亦无降黜，其勿复议。 于是合葬敬陵。
在位十八年。
帝以贵人酷殁，敛葬礼阙，乃改殡于承光宫，上尊谥曰恭怀皇后，追服丧制，百官缟素，与姊大贵人俱葬西陵，仪比敬园。
和帝阴皇后讳某，光烈皇后兄执金吾识之曾孙也。
后少聪慧，善书艺。
永元四年，选入掖庭，以先后近属，故得为贵人。
有殊宠。
八年，遂立为皇后。
自和熹邓后入宫，爱宠稍衰，数有恚恨。
后外祖母邓朱出入宫掖。
translation: 
There are many such reports from officials in both the government and the public.
He Emperor's edict said: Although the Dou family does not abide by the law, the Queen Mother often detracts from it.
I have served for ten years and have deeply considered the great principles. In terms of etiquette, I have no record of belittling Your Majesty.
Those who are kind cannot bear to be separated; those who are benevolent and righteous cannot bear to be mistreated.
In the previous life, the father of the Shangguan Queen Mother rebelled against King Yan and was executed. The Queen Mother was young and Huo Guang's grandson, but she was not deposed. Please stop talking about it. So Emperor Dou and Emperor Zhang were buried together in Jingling.
Reigned for eighteen years.
The emperor Yi Liang died cruelly, and the funeral and burial rituals were simple and lacking, so he was buried in Chengguang Palace. She was posthumously named Queen Gonghuai, and the funeral system was supplemented.
He is the great-grandson of Emperor Yin, the elder brother of Queen Guanglie, who holds the Yin consciousness of Jin Wu.
Queen Yin was very smart when she was young, and was good at calligraphy.
In the fourth year of Emperor Yongyuan's reign, he was elected to Yeting. Because she was the great-niece of Queen Guanglie, she became a noble person.
There is a special favor.
In the eighth year of Yongyuan, she was established as queen.
Since He Xi and Deng Hou entered the palace, Queen Yin's love gradually declined, and she often had feelings of hatred.
Queen Yin's grandmother Deng Zhu went in and out of the palace.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
十四年夏，有言后与朱共挟巫蛊道，事发觉，帝遂使中常侍张慎与尚书陈褒于掖庭狱杂考案之。
朱及二子奉、毅与后弟轶、辅、敞辞语相连及，以为祠祭祝诅，大逆无道。
奉、毅、辅考死狱中。
帝使司徒鲁恭持节赐后策，上玺绶，迁于桐宫，以忧死。
立七年，葬临平亭部。
父特进纲自杀。轶、敞及朱家属徙日南比景县，宗亲外内昆弟皆免官还田里。
永初四年，邓太后诏赦阴氏诸徙者悉归故郡，还其资财五百余万。
和熹邓皇后讳绥，太傅禹之孙也。
父训，护羌校尉；母阴氏，光烈皇后从弟女也。
后年五岁，太傅夫人爱之，自为剪发。
夫人年高目冥，误伤后额，忍痛不言。
translation: 
In the summer of the 14th year of Yongyuan, some people said that Queen Yin and Deng Zhu were using witchcraft to deceive people's hearts. When the matter was discovered, Emperor He asked Zhang Shen, the Chang's Minister, and Chen Bao, the Minister, to question and examine them in Yeting Prison.
As a result, the confessions of Deng Zhu, his two sons Deng Feng and Deng Yi, and Yin Queen's younger brothers Yin Yi, Yin Fu, and Yin Chang were connected with each other, and they believed that the sacrifices were curses and treasonous.
Deng Feng, Deng Yi, and Yin Fu were tortured to death in prison.
Emperor He sent Situ Lugong to hold the policy letter given to Queen Yin, handed over the Queen's seal and ribbon, and moved to Tong Palace. He died of sorrow and anger.
He was established for seven years and was buried in Linping Pavilion.
Queen Yin's father committed suicide in Yin Gang. Yin Yi, Yin Chang and Deng Zhu's family members were exiled to Bijing County, Rinan. All the clan members, including Kun and his brothers, were dismissed from official positions and returned to their hometowns.
In the fourth year of Emperor An's Yongchu reign, Empress Dowager Deng issued an edict to return all the exiled people of the Sheyin family to their home county, and to return more than five million yuan in property.
Deng Sui, Queen of Hexi and Deng, is the granddaughter of Taifu Deng Yu.
His father, Deng Xun, was a military officer protecting the Qiang people; his mother, Yin, was the daughter of Empress Guanglie's cousin.
When Deng Sui was five years old, his wife loved her very much and cut her hair herself.
The lady was old and had poor eyesight, and accidentally injured Deng Sui's forehead. Deng Sui endured the pain and remained silent.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
左右见者怪而问之，后曰： 非不痛也，太夫人哀怜为断发，难伤老人意，故忍之耳。 六岁能《史书》，十二通《诗》、《论语》。
诸兄每读经传，辄下意难问。
志在典籍，不问居家之事。
母常非之，曰： 汝不习女工以供衣服，乃更务学，宁当举博士邪？ 后重违母言，昼修妇业，暮诵经典，家人号曰 诸生 。
父训异之，事无大小，辄与详议。
永元四年，当以选入，会训卒，后昼夜号泣，终三年不食盐菜，憔悴毁容，亲人不识之。
后尝梦扪天，荡荡正青，若有钟乳状，乃仰嗽饮之。
以讯诸占梦，言尧梦攀天而上，汤梦及天而咶之，斯皆圣王之前占，吉不可言。
又相者见后惊曰： 此成汤之法也。 家人窃喜而不敢宣。
后叔父陔言： 常闻活千人者，子孙有封。
兄训为谒者，使修石臼河，岁活数千人。
天道可信，家必蒙福。 初，太傅禹叹曰： 吾将百万之众，未尝妄杀一人，其后世必有兴者。
七年，后复与诸家子俱选入宫。
translation: 
What he saw felt strange and he asked Deng Sui. Deng Sui said: "It's not painful. My wife cut off my hair because she loved me and couldn't bear to hurt the old man's feelings, so I endured it." Deng Sui could read "Historical Records" at the age of six, and mastered "The Book of Songs" and "The Analects of Confucius" at the age of twelve.
Whenever her brothers read the Bible, they often ask questions.
Her interest is in studying poetry and classics, not in household matters.
Her mother often criticizes her, saying: You don't learn how to work as a female worker for clothing, but you are devoted to studying. Do you want to become a doctor? Deng Sui listened to her mother's advice, trained as a female worker during the day, and recited classics at night. Her family called her "Zhu Sheng".
Her father, Deng Xun, thought she was different and would often discuss matters with her in detail, no matter how big or small.
In the fourth year of Emperor Yongyuan's reign, Deng Suiben was elected to the palace. It happened that Deng Xun passed away. Deng Sui cried day and night. She did not eat meat for three years, and her face was haggard. Even her family members no longer recognized her.
Deng Sui once dreamed that she reached out to touch the sky and saw something vast and green, like stalactites. She raised her head to suck and swallow.
People who asked about dream interpretations said that Tang Yao dreamed of climbing up to the sky, and Shang Tang dreamed of licking the sky. These are all omens before the sage king succeeds, and they are very auspicious.
Another fortune teller saw Deng Sui and said in surprise: Her bones are the same as Shang Tang's, very strange and expensive. The family members were secretly happy but did not dare to speak out.
Deng Sui's uncle Deng Ye said: It is usually said that if a thousand people survive, his descendants must be knighted.
My brother Deng Xun served as a pilgrim and commissioned the construction of the Shijiu River. Thousands of people survived every year.
God's law is trustworthy, and your family will definitely receive blessings. In the past, Taifu Deng Yu once said with emotion: I command millions of people and have never killed anyone indiscriminately. Some of my descendants will be prosperous.
In the seventh year of Emperor Yongyuan's reign, Deng Sui was selected into the palace together with the women of various families.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
后长七尺二寸，姿颜姝丽，绝异于众，左右皆惊。
八年冬，入掖庭为贵人，时年十六。
恭肃小心，动有法度。
承事阴后，夙夜战兢。
接抚同列，常克己以下之，虽宫人隶役，皆加恩借。
帝深嘉爱焉。及后有疾，特令后母兄弟入视医药，不限以日数。
后言于帝曰： 宫禁至重，而使外舍久在内省，上令陛下有幸私之讥，下使贱妾获不知足之谤。
上下交损，诚不愿也。 帝曰： 人皆以数入为荣，贵人反以为忧，深自抑损，诚难及也。 每有宴会，诸姬贵人竞自修整，簪珥光采，礻圭裳鲜明，而后独着素，装服无饰。
其衣有与阴后同色者，即时解易。
若并时进见，则不敢正坐离立，行则偻身自卑。
translation: 
She was seven feet two inches tall, very beautiful and outstanding, and everyone was surprised.
In the winter of the eighth year of Yongyuan, he entered Yeting as a nobleman at the age of sixteen.
Be respectful, solemn, careful, and behave in an orderly manner.
Serving Queen Yin is very tiring day and night.
He received consolation from the concubines in the same row, often mortified his body, and even extended favors to the servants of the palace.
Emperor He deeply praised and loved her. Deng Guiren was ill and allowed her mother and brothers to enter the palace to serve in medicine and medicine, and there was no limit to the number of days they could stay in the palace.
Deng Guiren said to Emperor He: "The forbidden area in the palace is very important, and allowing people from outside the family to stay in the forbidden area for a long time will make your majesty ridiculed for favoring selfishness, and will cause me to be slandered as insatiable."
I really don't want to have my upper and lower phases damaged! Emperor He said: Others regard it as an honor to often go to the Forbidden Palace, but you feel worried, deeply self-restrained and would rather suffer a loss. It is really rare and something that others cannot do! Every time there was a banquet, all the concubines and nobles competed to dress up. Their golden hairpins were dazzling, and their silk clothes were bright and dazzling. However, Deng Guiren wore plain clothes alone, unadorned and unpretentious.
Her clothes are the same color as Queen Yin's, so she can immediately change her clothes.
If Queen Yin and Queen Yin came to see Emperor He at the same time, they would not dare to sit upright and leave their seats to stand. When walking, they would also bow their bodies to show their humiliation.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
帝每有所问，常逡巡后对，不敢先阴后言。
帝知后劳心曲体，叹曰： 修德之劳，乃如是乎！ 后阴后渐疏，每当御见，辄辞以疾。
时帝数失皇子，后忧继嗣不广，恒垂涕叹息，数选进才人，以博帝意。
阴后见后德称日盛，不知所为，遂造祝诅，欲以为害。
帝尝寝病危甚，阴后密言： 我得意，不令邓氏复有遗类！ 后闻，乃对左右流涕言曰： 我竭诚尽心以事皇后，竟不为所祐，而当获罪于天。
妇人虽无从死之义，然周公身请武王之命，越姬心誓必死之分，上以报帝之恩，中以解宗族之祸，下不令阴氏有人豕之讥。 即欲饮药，宫人赵玉者固禁之，因诈言属有使来，上疾已愈。
后信以为然，乃止。
明日，帝果廖。
十四年夏，阴后以巫蛊事废，后请救不能得，帝便属意焉。
后愈称疾笃，深自闭绝。
translation: 
Whenever Emperor He asked questions, he often hesitated before answering, and did not dare to speak in front of Queen Yin.
Emperor He understood that Deng Guiren had good intentions but was out of consideration for human feelings, and sighed: Is it so difficult to cultivate one's morality and cultivate one's morality with so much hard work? Later, the emperor became increasingly alienated from Queen Yin. Whenever Deng Guiren was summoned, he often complained that she was ill and did not respond.
At this time, Emperor He lost his prince many times. Deng Guiren was worried that he would have no heirs, so he often wept and sighed, and widely selected talented people in order to respond to the emperor's love and obtain heirs.
Queen Yin saw that Deng Guiren's reputation was increasing day by day. She didn't know what to do, so she made curses and prayed to ghosts and gods to harm Deng Guiren.
When Emperor He was seriously ill, Queen Yin secretly said: "Once I succeed, I will never let anyone from the Deng family stay, and I will definitely eradicate them all." When Deng Guiren heard this, he shed tears and said to his left and right: "I served the queen with all my heart, but unexpectedly I did not receive her blessing, and I will be punished by heaven."
Although the woman had no right to die, King Wu was ill, so Duke Zhou asked for his life as King Wu. King Zhao of Chu was ill, so Yue Ji fulfilled her old vow and committed suicide. I can only die to repay the emperor's favor, to relieve my Deng family from the disaster, and to prevent Queen Yin from suffering the ridicule of turning me into a pig. Deng Guiren immediately wanted to commit suicide by drinking medicine, but Zhao Yu, the palace keeper, resolutely stopped him and lied that a messenger had just arrived, saying that the emperor's illness was cured.
Deng Guiren believed it to be true and gave up the idea of ​​committing suicide.
The next day, Hedi's illness was indeed cured.
In the summer of the fourteenth year of Yongyuan, Queen Yin was deposed for engaging in witchcraft activities. Deng Guiren's request for rescue was unsuccessful, so Emperor He became more interested in Deng Guiren.
Deng Guiren further said that his illness was very serious and he had to live in seclusion to avoid being summoned by the emperor.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
会有司奏建长秋宫，帝曰： 皇后之尊，与朕同体，承宗庙，母天下，岂易哉！
唯邓贵人德冠后庭，乃可当之。 至冬，立为皇后。
辞让者三，然后即位。
手书表谢，深陈德薄，不足以充小君之选。
是时，方国贡献，竞求珍丽之物，自后即位，悉令禁绝，岁时但供纸墨而已。
帝每欲官爵邓氏，后辄哀请谦让，故兄骘终帝世不过虎贲中郎将。
元兴元年，帝崩，长子平原王有疾，而诸皇子夭没，前后十数，后生者辄隐秘养于人间。
殇帝生始百日，后乃迎立之。
尊后为皇太后，太后临朝。
和帝葬后，宫人并归园，太后赐周、冯贵人策曰： 朕与贵人托配后庭，共欢等列，十有余年。
不获福祐，先帝早弃天下，孤心茕茕，靡所瞻仰，夙夜永怀，感怆发中。今当以旧典分归外园，惨结增叹，燕燕之诗，曷能喻焉？
其赐贵人王青盖车，采饰辂，骖马各一驷，黄金三十斤，杂帛三千匹，白越四千端。 又赐冯贵人王赤绶，以未有头上步摇、环佩，加赐各一具。
translation: 
At this time, the steward petitioned for the re-establishment of the empress, and Emperor He said: The empress is of the same status as the emperor, and is equally valuable. She can worship the ancestral temple and the country, and be the mother of the world. It is not easy!
Only Deng Guiren's character is the first in the harem, and he can be worthy of it. In winter, make Deng Gui the queen.
He repeatedly declined and humbled himself, and then ascended to the throne.
He wrote a memorial letter of gratitude by hand, stating deeply that his moral character was meager and that he was not a good candidate for the king's wife.
At this time, the princes from all over the world contributed supplies and competed for precious and gorgeous things. Since Empress Deng came to the throne, they have all banned it. They only need to provide paper and ink every year and season.
Every time Emperor He wanted to ennoble Queen Deng's family, Queen Deng would always be humble and beg not to allow it to proceed. Therefore, Queen Deng's brother Deng Zhi was nothing more than a fierce general in the entire reign of Emperor He.
In the first year of Emperor Yuanxing's reign, Emperor He passed away. His eldest son, King Liu Sheng of Pingyuan, was unable to stand due to chronic illness. However, all the princes died young, numbering ten before and after, and the younger ones were often raised secretly in the human world.
Only a hundred days after Emperor Shang was born, Empress Deng immediately ascended the throne.
Respect Queen Deng as the Queen Mother, and the Queen Mother will come to the court.
After Emperor He was buried, everyone in the palace returned to the garden. Empress Dowager Deng gave Zhou and Feng Guiren a policy letter, saying: Your Excellency and I, entrusted by the Emperor's blessing, will be able to enjoy the joy together in the back courtyard for more than ten years.
There is no more happiness and blessing, but the late emperor has long abandoned the world, is alone, has lost support, is sad day and night, and cannot control himself. Now he should return to the outer garden according to the old rules, and his misery condenses, which only adds to the lament. The poem "Yan Yan" written by Zhuang Jiang of Weiguo before sending back his concubine, weeping and saying goodbye, and sighing after separation is incomparable!
Now I give to the noble Wang Qing a covered chariot, a decorated chariot, a horse each, thirty kilograms of gold, three thousand pieces of miscellaneous silk, and four thousand pieces of white gold. He also gave Feng Guiren Wang a scarlet ribbon. Since he didn't have a headband or a ring on his head, he also gave him one more.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
是时新遭大忧，法禁未设。
宫中亡大珠一箧，太后念，欲考问，必有不辜。
乃亲阅宫人，观察颜色，即时首服。
又和帝幸人吉成，御者共枉吉成以巫蛊事，遂下掖庭考讯，辞证明白。
太后以先帝左右，待之有恩，平日尚无恶言，今反若此，不合人情，更自呼见实核，果御者所为。
莫不叹服，以为圣明。
常以鬼神难征，淫祀无福。
乃诏有司罢诸祠官不合典礼者。
又诏赦除建武以来诸犯妖恶，及马、窦家属所被禁锢者，皆复之为平人。
减大官、导官、尚方、内者服御珍膳靡丽难成之物，自非供陵庙，稻粱米不得导择，朝夕一肉饭而已。
translation: 
At this time, we had just encountered a big crisis, and the laws and prohibitions were not complete.
A box of big pearls in the palace disappeared. Empress Dowager Deng thought that if she were to be tortured, innocent people would be hurt.
So he personally inspected all the palace officials. If you look at your appearance calmly and carefully, the thief will immediately surrender and plead guilty.
He and the emperor's favorite Jicheng, together with the driver, unjustly accused Jicheng of engaging in evil and engaging in witchcraft, so he was tortured and interrogated in Ye court, and his confession and testimony were clear.
However, Empress Dowager Deng believed that Jicheng was always at the side of the late emperor, and she usually treated him with kindness and no bad words. But now it was like this, which was unkind, so she asked the relevant people to verify it. It turned out that it was the driver himself.
Everyone in the palace was impressed and thought that Queen Mother Deng was a wise and wise man.
Empress Dowager Deng often said that it was difficult to trust ghosts and gods, and too many sacrifices were of no benefit.
So he ordered the officials to remove the officials who were not in compliance with the ceremony.
He also issued an edict to pardon those who had committed witchcraft and witchcraft since Emperor Guangwu established his military power, and those in the Ma and Dou family who were imprisoned and would never serve in official positions were exempted from becoming commoners.
Minus the food, rice, swords, curtains and other expensive and difficult-to-find items in charge of the high officials, guide officials, Shang Fang, and internal officials. If it is not for sacrifice in the mausoleum and temple, rice and rice are not allowed to be chosen. A meal of meat in the morning and evening will be enough.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
旧太官汤官经用岁且二万万，太后敕止，日杀省珍费，自是裁数千万。
及郡国所贡，皆减其过半。
悉斥卖上林鹰犬。
其蜀、汉釦器九带佩刀，并不复调。
止画工三十九种。
又御府、尚方、织室锦绣、冰纨、绮縠、金银、珠玉、犀象、玳瑁、雕镂玩弄之物，皆绝不作。
离宫别馆储峙米糒薪炭，悉令省之。
又诏诸园贵人，其宫人有宗室同族若羸老不任使者，令园监实核上名，自御北宫增喜观阅问之，恣其去留，即日免遣者五六百人。
及殇帝崩，太后定策立安帝，犹临朝政。
以连遭大忧，百姓苦役，殇帝康陵方中秘藏，及诸工作，事事减约，十分居一。
诏告司隶校尉、河南尹、南阳太守曰： 每览前代外戚宾客，假借威权，轻薄讠詷，至有浊乱奉公，为人患苦。
咎在执法怠懈，不辄行其罚故也。
translation: 
The old official Tang Guan had to spend 20 million yuan all year round. Empress Dowager Deng ordered this to stop and reduce the daily expenses to save money. Since then, tens of millions have been laid off.
The tribute items paid by the county were reduced by more than half.
All the eagle dogs in Shanglin Garden will be sold.
The gold and silver edge vessels and nine-band sabers supplied by Shu County and Guanghan County will no longer be increased.
Stop the thirty-nine kinds of painters.
In addition, Yufu, Shangfang, and Weavers stopped making brocades, bingwans, qibo, gold, silver, pearls and jade, rhinoceros elephants, Wang Duhao, and Zhou Yan.
All the rice, grain and firewood accumulated in the palace annex will be omitted.
He also ordered the garden supervisors to verify the registered names of the nobles and palace officials who had clan members who were weak, old, and unfit for use, and to personally go to Zengxi Temple in the Beigong to review and inquire. They were allowed to decide whether to stay or go, and five to six hundred people were exempted from dismissal that day.
After Emperor Shang passed away, Empress Dowager Deng decided to establish Emperor An and remain in charge of the government.
Due to the successive deaths of Emperor He and Emperor Shang, the common people suffered from labor, the secret collection of Emperor Shang Kang's mausoleum, and the funeral work were reduced to only one-tenth of the normal amount.
Empress Dowager Deng ordered Si Li Xiaowei, Henan Yin, and Nanyang Prefect to say: It is often seen that the guests of the relatives of the previous generation used the authority of the royal relatives to be frivolous and superficial, and even disrupted the public service and caused trouble to the people.
The problem lies in the laziness and laxity of law enforcement and the failure to promptly implement punishments.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
今车骑将军骘等虽怀敬顺之志，而宗门广大，姻戚不少，宾客奸猾，多干禁宪。
其明加检敕，勿相容护。 自是亲属犯罪，无所假贷。
太后愍阴氏之罪废，赦其徙者归乡，敕还资财五百余万。
永初元年，爵号太夫人为新野君，万户供汤沐邑。
二年夏，京师旱，亲幸洛阳寺录冤狱。
有囚实不杀人而被考自诬，羸困舆见，畏吏不敢言，将去，举头若欲自诉。
太后察视觉之，即呼还问状，具得枉实，即时收洛阳令下狱抵罪。
行未还宫，澍雨大降。
三年秋，太后体不安，左右忧惶，祷请祝辞，愿得代命。
太后闻之，即谴怒，切敕掖庭令以下，但使谢过祈福，不得妄生不祥之言。
translation: 
Although Deng Zhi, the general of chariots and cavalry today, has the ambition to be respectful and obedient, he has a large clan and many relatives by marriage. His guests are cunning and cunning, and most of them violate the prohibition and charter.
They should be clearly inspected and rectified, and they should not be tolerated and sheltered from each other. From then on, there is no excuse for any crime committed by a relative.
Empress Dowager Deng took pity on Empress Minyin and dismissed her because of her crimes. She ordered her relatives who were exiled because of her to return to their hometowns and pardoned her to return more than 5 million yuan in property.
In the first year of Emperor An's Yongchu reign, the Queen Mother Deng was granted the title of Queen Mother Deng's mother-in-law, the Queen Mother, as the Lord of Xinye.
In the summer of the second year of Yongchu, there was a drought in the capital. Empress Dowager Deng personally went to the official residence in Luoyang to review the records to see if there were any cases of unjust imprisonment.
There was a prisoner who actually did not commit murder but was tortured and forced to confess. He was thin and sleepy and was carried to see Empress Dowager Deng. He was afraid of the officials and did not dare to speak. When he was about to leave, he raised his head and wanted to say something.
Empress Dowager Deng noticed it and immediately called him to ask about his situation. After fully understanding all the facts that he had been wronged, she immediately arrested Luoyang and ordered him to be imprisoned to atone for his crime.
Before Empress Dowager Deng returned to the palace from this trip, it started to rain promptly.
In the autumn of the third year of Yongchu's reign, Empress Dowager Deng was not feeling well, and the people around her were worried and frightened. They prayed to the gods and congratulated her sincerely, hoping to take her life on her behalf.
When Empress Dowager Deng heard about it, she immediately reprimanded and became angry, and sincerely ordered Ye Ting to order the following people to only thank the gods and pray for blessings, and not to utter any unlucky words arrogantly.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
旧事，岁终当飨遣卫士，大傩逐疫。
太后以阴阳不和，军旅数兴，诏飨会勿设戏作乐，减逐疫侲子之半，悉罢象橐驼之属。
丰年复故。
太后自入宫掖，从曹大家受经书，兼天文、算数。
昼省王政，夜则诵读，而患其谬误，惧乖典章，乃博选诸儒刘珍等及博士、议郎、四府掾史五十余人，诣东观雠校传记。
事毕奏御，赐葛布各有差。
又诏中官近臣于东观受读经传，以教授宫人，左右习诵，朝夕济济。
及新野君薨，太后自侍疾病，至乎终尽，忧哀毁损，事加于常。
赠以长公主赤绶、东园秘器、玉衣绣衾，又赐布三万匹、钱三千万。
骘等遂固让钱、布不受。
使司空持节护丧事，仪比东海恭王，谥曰敬君。
太后谅闇既终，久旱，太后比三日幸洛阳，录囚徒，理出死罪三十六人，耐罪八十人，其余减罪死右趾已下至司寇。
七年正月，初入太庙，斋七日，赐公卿百僚各有差。
庚戌，谒宗庙，率命妇群妾相礼仪，与皇帝交献亲荐，成礼而还。
translation: 
According to the old practice, at the end of the year, the Lord will reward the repatriated guards with food and wine, and hold a Nuo ceremony to drive away yin and yang to drive away plague ghosts.
Empress Dowager Deng believed that Yin and Yang were in disharmony, and wars broke out one after another. She ordered banquets to be held without drama and entertainment, and held a Nuo to ward off epidemics, minus half the number of Gan Chenzi, and no elephants, camels, etc. were used.
In good years, things will return to their original state.
Since the Queen Mother entered the palace, she followed everyone to study scriptures, astronomy and arithmetic.
During the day, he diligently dealt with the royal affairs, and at night he read poems and books. In order to avoid mistakes and follow the rules and regulations, he cited many Confucian scholars, such as Liu Zhen and others, as well as doctors, Yilang, and more than 50 officials from the four prefectures, gathered in Dongguan to proofread and review the biography.
After the matter was completed, he went to the imperial throne and gave various gifts to Gebu.
He also ordered the officials and ministers to receive scripture readings in Dongguan, and then taught the palace officials to learn how to recite the scriptures, and they gathered together in the morning and evening.
When Empress Dowager Deng's mother, Xin Yejun of the Yin family, passed away, Empress Dowager Deng personally took care of the illness. As for her last breath, she was devastated and sorrowful, which was beyond ordinary circumstances.
He presented the eldest princess with a scarlet ribbon, the secret weapon of Dongyuan, jade clothes and embroidered quilt, as well as 30,000 pieces of cloth and 30 million in money.
Deng Zhi and others resolutely refused to accept money.
Sikong Chijie was assigned to safeguard the funeral, and all the rituals were similar to those of Prince Gong of the East China Sea, and his posthumous title was King Gong of the East China Sea.
The Empress Dowager Deng spent three days in Luoyang in sorrow and silence. She went to Luoyang for three consecutive days to review and record the crimes of the prisoners. Thirty-six of them were found guilty of death, and eighty were punished by shaving their cheeks at the age of two.
In the first month of the seventh year of Emperor Yongchu's reign, Emperor An began to enter the Ancestral Temple, fast for seven days, and give various rewards to officials and officials.
On the twelfth day, I visited the ancestral temple. He led his wife and concubines to help perform the ceremony, and alternately recommended nine offerings to the emperor, which were then returned as gifts.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
因下诏曰： 凡供荐新味，多非其节，或郁养强孰，或穿掘萌牙，味无所至而夭折生长，岂所以顺时育物乎！
传曰： 非其时不食。
自今当奉祠陵庙及给御者，皆须时乃上。 凡所省二十三种。
自太后临朝，水旱十载，四夷外侵，盗贼内起。
每闻人饥，或达旦不寐，而躬自减彻，以救灾厄，故天下复平，岁还丰穰。
元初五年，平望侯刘毅以太后多德政，欲令早有注记，上书安帝曰：
臣闻《易》载羲、农而皇德著，《书》述唐、虞而帝道崇，故虽圣明，必书功于竹帛，流音于管弦。
伏惟皇太后膺大圣之姿，体乾坤之德，齐踪虞妃，比迹任、姒。
孝悌慈仁，允恭节约，杜绝奢盈之源，防抑逸欲之兆。
正位内朝，流化四海。
及元兴、延平之际，国无储副，仰观乾象，参之人誉，援立陛下为天下主，永安汉室，绥静四海。
又遭水潦，东州饥荒。
垂恩元元，冠盖交路，菲薄衣食，躬率群下，损膳解骖，以赡黎苗。
translation: 
The edict said: Most of the recommended new flavors are not suitable for the season. Some are accumulated and cultivated to catalyze maturity, and some are picked and dug in the bud. The flavors are not yet formed and die prematurely and cannot grow. Is this nurturing all things in accordance with the weather?
Some books say: Food that is not mature before the time is harmful to people and should not be offered as offerings.
From now on, ancestral temples, mausoleums, temples, and objects dedicated to the imperial family have to be presented in season. In this way, a total of twenty-three types of food were saved.
Since Empress Dowager Deng came to the court, there have been ten years of floods and droughts, foreign invasions from all sides, and bandits from within.
Whenever the Queen Mother heard that the people were in famine, she would stay up all night, and would personally reduce or remove the living supplies to relieve disasters and hardships. As a result, the world returned to peace and there were good harvests every year.
In the fifth year of the Yuan Dynasty of Emperor An, Liu Yi, the Marquis of Pingwang, wanted to record them as soon as possible because Empress Dowager Deng had done a lot of good things politically, so he wrote to Emperor An:
I heard that the "Book of Changes" records the deeds of Fuxi and Shennong, and the emperor's virtues are outstanding; the "Book of Books" records the deeds of Yao and Yushun of the Tang Dynasty, and the emperor's virtues are noble. Therefore, we must write down our achievements on bamboo and silk, and leave the sound of virtue on the orchestra.
I consider that the Empress Dowager is endowed with the heroic figure of a great sage, embodying the kindness of heaven and earth. She has traced Shun's wife, Ehuang, and Nvying, and her traces are as great as those of Queen Mother Wen and Queen Mother Wu's great concubine.
Filial piety, kindness, respect and thrift, eliminate the sources of luxury and overflow, and prevent the signs of suppressing pleasure and greed.
Located in the inner palace, it is popular all over the world.
When Emperor He was in Yuanxing and Emperor Shang was in Yanping, there was no deputy prince or crown prince in the country. The Queen Mother looked up at the celestial phenomena, and based on the reputation of people, she welcomed His Majesty as the Lord of the World. The Han Dynasty would be in peace forever, and the world would be peaceful.
They were hit by floods again and had to provide relief from famine.
Give grace to the people of Yuanyuan and build roads and roads. Meager food and clothing, set an example for others. Reduce meals and eliminate carriages and horses to support the people.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
恻隐之恩，犹视赤子。
克已引愆，显扬仄陋。
崇晏晏之政，敷在宽之教。
兴灭国，继绝世，录功臣，复宗室。
追还徙人，蠲除禁锢。
政非惠和，不图于心，制非旧典，不访于朝。
弘德洋溢，充塞宇宙；洪泽丰沛，漫衍八方。
华夏乐化，戎狄混并。
丕功著于大汉，硕惠加于生人。
巍巍之业，可闻而不可及；荡荡之勋，可诵而不可名。
古之帝王，左右置史；汉之旧典，世有注记。
夫道有夷崇，治有进退。
若善政不述，细异辄书，是为尧、汤负洪水大旱之责，而无咸熙假天之美；高宗、成王有雉雊迅风之变，而无中兴康宁之功也。
translation: 
Compassion is like protecting an innocent child.
Deny yourself and take the blame, show your humility.
Advocating the policy of peace and giving the teaching of forgiveness.
Those who had eliminated feudal states were resurrected, and those whose lineages were severed were continued, people were recruited, and their clans were restored.
Those who were exiled were pardoned and restored to their native places, and those who were imprisoned were restored to civilian status.
If the administration is not harmonious, no ideological consideration will be given; if the system is not in line with the old norms, there will be no discussion within the court.
Great virtue is overflowing and fills the Liuhe; the flood is abundant and spreads in all directions.
China became harmonious, and Rong and Di merged together.
His great achievements were famous among the Han Dynasty, and his great benefits were brought to the people.
High achievements can be heard but cannot be climbed; frivolous achievements can be sung but not famous.
The ancient emperors set up the left history to record events and the right history to record remarks. In the old system of the Han Dynasty, historical events were recorded in every generation.
There are low and high levels of Tao, and there are advancements and retreats in governance.
If good governance is not recorded, but small disasters and disasters are always written down, this is the responsibility of Tang Yao and Shang Tang for floods and droughts, but not the virtues of prosperity and good fortune in all kinds of achievements; Emperor Gaozong of Yin sacrificed pheasants to Tang Dynasty, and King Cheng doubted the Duke of Zhou and had thunder, lightning and strong winds; but ignored Gaozong's virtues and Yin Zhongxing, and King Cheng changed several punishments.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
上考《诗》、《书》，有虞二妃，周室三母，修行佐德，思不逾阈。
未有内遭家难，外遇灾害，览总大麓，经营天物，功德巍巍若兹者也。
宜令史官著《长乐宫注》、《圣德颂》，以敷宣景耀，勒勋金石，县之日月，摅之罔极，以崇陛下烝烝之孝。
帝从之。
六年，太后诏征和帝弟济北、河间王子男女年五岁以上四十余人，又邓氏近亲子孙三十余人，并为开邸第，教学经书，躬自监试。
尚幼者，使置师保，朝夕入宫，抚循诏导，恩爱甚渥。
乃诏从兄河南尹豹、越骑校尉康等曰：吾所以引纳群子，置之学官者，实以方今承百王之敝，时俗浅薄，巧伪滋生，《五经》衰缺，不有化导，将遂陵迟，故欲褒崇圣道，以匡失俗。
传不云乎： 饱食终日，无所用心，难矣哉！ 今末世贵戚食禄之家，温衣美饭，乘坚驱良，而面墙术学，不识臧否，斯故祸败所从来也。
永平中，四姓小侯皆令入学，所以矫俗厉薄，反之忠孝。
先功既以武功书之竹帛，兼以文德教化子孙，故能束修，不触罗网。
诚令儿曹上述祖考休烈，下念诏书本意，则足矣。
其勉之哉！
translation: 
In the "Book of Songs" and "The Book of Books", Emperor Yushun, Concubine'e, and Nvying were the two concubines. The Zhou family had three mothers, Houji's mother Jiang Nuyuan, Queen Wen's mother Daren, and Queen Mother Wu's sister.
She has never suffered internal or external disasters. She has taken charge of everything, planned and built everything in the world, and has great merits and virtues like the Empress Dowager today.
Historians should be ordered to write "Notes on Changle Palace" and "Ode to Holy Virtue", widely publicize and show off, and hang her honor in gold and stone like the sun and moon for eternity to show His Majesty's sincere filial piety.
Emperor An adopted Liu Yi's suggestion.
In the sixth year of Emperor An's reign, Empress Dowager Deng issued an edict to recruit more than 40 people aged five and above, including the emperor's younger brother King Jibei and Prince Hejian, as well as more than 30 close relatives of Empress Dowager Deng. She opened residences for them, taught scriptures, and personally supervised examinations.
For those who are very young, caretakers are set up to come to the palace morning and evening to nurture, encourage, warn and guide them, and their love is very strong.
So he ordered his cousins ​​Henan Yin Dengbao, Yueqi Colonel Deng Kang and others to say: The reason why I introduced and accepted these children and set up academic officials for education is because now we have inherited all the shortcomings of the past, the fashion is secular and superficial, the cunning and hypocrisy are common, the meaning of the "Five Classics" is declining and lacking, without enlightenment, it will decline day by day, so I want to praise the morality of the saints to save the lost simplicity and secularity.
Didn't Confucius say: If you eat all day long without any intention, and if you are not focused on righteousness, you will end up with no future, and it is very dangerous! In the period of decline, the royal family and nobles enjoy the generous salary of the family, wear and eat well, ride in good cars and drive good horses, but face the wall and study, cannot distinguish between good and evil, gain and loss, and do not know the praise and criticism. This is the origin of all disasters and failures.
During the reign of Emperor Yongping of the Ming Dynasty, Xiaohou, a descendant of the four surnames of Fan, Guo, Yin and Ma, was admitted to the school, which was used to correct the shallow customs and return them to the track of loyalty and filial piety.
My ancestors not only taught martial arts on bamboo and silk, but also taught their descendants with rituals and music, so they were able to discipline themselves and not break the law and get caught in a trap.
It would be very satisfying if our children and grandchildren could inherit the virtues and martial arts of their ancestors and fathers and understand the fundamental meaning of the edict.
Encourage everyone!


Chunk 33: 
original: 
康以太后久临朝政，心怀畏惧，托病不朝。
太后使内人问之。
时宫婢出入，多能有所毁誉，其耆宿者皆称中大人，所使者乃康家先婢，亦自通中大人。
康闻，诟之曰： 汝我家出，尔敢尔鸦！ 婢怒，还说康诈疾而言不逊。
太后遂免康官，遣归国，绝属籍。
永宁二年二月，寝病渐笃，乃乘辇于前殿，见侍中、尚书，因北至太子新所缮宫。
还，大赦天下，赐诸园贵人、王、主、群僚钱、布各有差。
诏曰： 朕以无德，托母天下，而薄祐不天，早离大忧。
延平之际，海内无主，元元厄运，危于累卵。
勤勤苦心，不敢以万乘为乐，上欲不欺天愧先帝，下不违人负宿心，诚在济度百姓，以安刘氏。
自谓感彻天地，当蒙福祚，而丧祸内外，伤痛不绝。
顷以废病沉滞，久不得侍祠，自力上原陵，加咳逆唾血，遂至不解。
translation: 
Deng Kang was very frightened because Empress Dowager Deng had been in court for a long time to listen to politics. He pretended to be sick and refused to go to the palace to pay homage.
Empress Dowager Deng sent her maid to find out the whole story.
At that time, the maids in the palace came in and out, talked a lot about good things and bad things, and had bad reputations. Among them, the older ones who had been in the palace for a long time were called Zhongdaren. Empress Dowager Deng sent a former maid from Deng Kang's family, and she also announced that she was a master of Zhongda.
When Deng Kang found out, he scolded her and said, "You are a maid from our family. Do you dare to do this?" The maidservant was angry and said that Deng Kang lied about his illness and said something rude.
The Empress Dowager Deng removed Deng Kang from his official position, sent him back to the country, and removed his clan status.
In February of the second year of Emperor An's Yongning reign, Empress Dowager Deng became increasingly ill, so she took a chariot to the front hall to see the attendants and ministers, and then went north to the palace recently renovated by the prince.
Return it, grant a general amnesty to the world, and reward the nobles, kings, lords, and officials in various gardens with varying amounts of money and cloth.
The edict said: Because of my lack of virtue, my mother respects the world, but if heaven doesn't care for me, I will be in great trouble.
When Emperor Shang was in peace, there was no owner in the sea, the common people were in doom, and the country was in danger.
I work diligently and painstakingly, not daring to treat the country of thousands of chariots as a child's play. I pray not to deceive Heaven and disgrace the late emperor, and I pray not to violate the will of the people and betray my true intention. I am sincere in helping all sentient beings and stabilizing the world of the Liu family.
I felt that I should completely move the world and receive blessings, but Emperor He, Emperor Shang, and Lord Xinye died one after another, causing internal and external disasters and endless pain.
Recently, he has been seriously entangled with old age and illness, and has been unable to visit the ancestral temple for a long time. He struggled to go to the original mausoleum, and he was coughing and spitting blood, so he couldn't afford it.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
存亡大分，无可奈何。
公卿百官，其勉尽忠恪，以辅朝廷。 三月崩。在位二十年，年四十一。
合葬顺陵。
论曰：对后称制终身，号令自出，术谢前政之良，身阙明辟之义，至使嗣主侧目，敛衽于虚器，直生怀懑，悬书于象魏。
借之仪者，殆其惑哉！
然而建光之后，王柄有归，遂乃名贤戮辱，便孽党进，衰斁之来，兹焉有征。
故知持权引谤，所幸者非己；焦心恤患，自强者唯国。
是以班母一说，阖门辞事；爱侄微愆，髡剔谢罪。
将杜根逢诛，未值其诚乎！
但蹊田之牛，夺之已甚。
translation: 
There is no choice between life and death and the end of life.
All ministers and officials should try their best to be loyal and prudent and assist the court. Empress Dowager Deng died in March, after reigning for twenty years, at the age of forty-one.
Buried in Shunling together with Emperor He.
Historians commented: Empress Dowager Deng exercised the power of the emperor until the end of her life, issuing orders by herself. She refused to adopt the good ideas of Zhou Gong in terms of skills and wisdom, and she lacked the great responsibility to return the throne to the king. To the point where the heir was so angry that he dared not face it, so he tightened his clothes and held the throne empty-handedly. Du Gen and others wrote a letter asking the Queen Mother to return the throne. Out of resentment, they hung up the gate to control the elephant.
Isn't it also close to delusion to follow this example?
However, after the founding of the People's Republic of China, Emperor An was in control, and he actually believed in slandering and humiliating Yang Zhen, Deng Zhi and other virtuous people, so he attracted evildoers and ganged up. There were obvious signs of decline, which was becoming increasingly serious.
Therefore, we know that monopolizing the privileges of the court will easily lead to slander. Fortunately, it is not for ourselves; those who are anxious and pity the sorrows, and those who strive for self-improvement only know that there is a country.
Therefore, the Empress Dowager Deng's brother Deng Zhi requested to resign due to the death of his mother. The Empress Dowager asked Ban Zhao before agreeing and closed the door to resign. The Empress Dowager Deng's nephew Deng Feng was exposed by the legacy, and his father had Deng Fengkun confessed to the world.
Did you kill Dugan because you didn't believe in his sincerity?
This is like a cow trampling on a person's field and the owner of the field taking the cow. The punishment is too severe.


