Summary line 0
Span: 81-119 (score=0.4157)

original:
书奏，防流涕诉帝，诩坐论输左校。
防必欲害之，二日之中，传考四狱。
狱吏劝诩自引，诩曰： 宁伏欧刀以示远近。
宦者孙程、张贤等知诩以忠获罪，乃相率奏乞见。
程曰： 陛下始与臣等造事之时，常疾奸臣，知其倾国。
今者即位而复自为，何以非先帝乎？
司隶校尉虞诩为陛下尽忠，而更被拘系；常侍张防臧罪明正，反构忠良。
今客星守羽林，其占宫中有奸臣。
宜急收防送狱，以塞天变。
下诏出诩，还假印绶。
时，防立在帝后，程乃叱防曰： 奸臣张防，何不下殿！
防不得已，趋就东箱。
程曰： 陛下急收防，无令从阿母求请。
帝问诸尚书，尚书贾朗素与防善，证诩之罪。
帝疑焉，谓程曰： 且出，吾方思之。
于是诩子顗与门生百余人，举幡候中常侍高梵车，叩头流血，诉言枉状。
梵乃入言之，防坐徙边，贾朗等六人或死或黜，即日赦出诩。
程复上书陈诩有大功，语甚切激。帝感悟，复征拜议郎。
数日，迁尚书仆射。
是时，长吏、二千石听百姓嫡罚者输赎，号为 义钱 ，托为贫人储，而守令因以聚敛。
诩上疏曰： 元年以来，贫百姓章言长吏受取百万以上者，匈匈不绝，谪罚吏人至数千万，而三公、剌史少所举奏。
寻永平、章和中，州郡以走卒钱给贷贫人。司空劾案，州及郡县皆坐免黜。
今宜遵前典，蠲除权制。
于是诏书下诩章，切责州郡。
谪罚输赎自此而止。
先是，宁阳主簿诣阙，诉其县令之枉，积六七岁不省。
主簿乃上书曰： 臣为陛下子，陛下为臣父。
臣章百上，终不见省，臣岂可北诣单于以告怨乎？
帝大怒，持章示尚书，尚书遂劾以大逆。
诩驳之曰： 主簿所讼，乃君父之怨；百上不达，是有司之过。
愚蠢之人，不足多诛。
帝纳诩言，答之而已。
诩因谓诸尚书曰： 小人有怨，不远千里，断发刻肌，诣阙告诉，而不为理，岂臣下之义？
君与浊长吏何亲，而与怨人何仇乎？
闻者皆惭。
诩又上言： 台郎显职，仕之通阶。今或一郡七八，或一州无人。宜令均平，以厌天下之望。
及诸奏议，多见从用。
诩好刺举，无所回容，数以此忤权戚，遂九见谴考，三遭刑罚，而刚正之性，终老不屈。永和初，迁尚书令，以公事去官。朝廷思其忠，复征之，会卒。
临终，谓其子恭曰： 吾事君直道，行己无愧，所悔者为朝歌长时杀贼数百人，其中何能不有冤者。自此二十余年，家门不增一口，斯获罪于天也。

translation:
In the memorial, Zhang Fang complained in tears before the emperor, and Yu Xu was convicted and sent to Zuo School to do hard labor.
Zhang Fang insisted on killing him. Within two days, he was summoned four times.
The jailer advised Yu Xu to commit suicide, but Yu Xu said: "I would rather put him to death so that people far and near would know about it."
Eunuchs Sun Cheng, Zhang Xian and others knew that Yu Xu had been convicted on duty, so they successively submitted petitions to the emperor to receive them.
Sun Cheng said: When the emperor began to get along with his ministers, he often hated the treacherous ministers and knew that the treacherous ministers would harm the country.
Now that he is the emperor and he is doing this again, how can he be different from the previous emperor?
Yu Xu, the lieutenant of Sili School, was loyal to you and was arrested. Zhang Fang, Chang's attendant, was found guilty of embezzlement and framed Zhongliang instead.
Now the guest star is guarding Yulin, and there are treacherous ministers in the palace.
Zhang Fang should be arrested and sent to prison as soon as possible to prevent changes in the weather.
An edict was issued to release Yu Xu and return his seal and ribbon.
At this time, Zhang Fang was standing behind the emperor. Sun Cheng angrily scolded Zhang Fang and said: "Treacherous minister Zhang Fang, why don't you go down to the palace?"
Zhang Fang had no choice but to run into the east chamber.
Sun Cheng said: Your Majesty, arrest Zhang Fang quickly and don't let him plead with his mother.
The emperor asked all the ministers. Jia Lang, the minister, had always been on good terms with Zhang Fang, which proved that Yu Xu was guilty.
The emperor was a little suspicious and said to Sun Cheng: "I will go out temporarily, I still have to think about it."
So Yu Xu's son Yu Kai and more than a hundred students, holding flags, waited for Gao Fan's car to come, kowtow and bleed, and complained about Yu Xu's injustice.
Gao Fan then told the emperor that Zhang Fang was exiled to the border area for his crimes, and Jia Lang and other six people were either executed or deposed, and Yu Xu was released that day.
Sun Cheng also wrote a letter saying that Yu Xu had meritorious service and his words were generous. The emperor understood and worshiped Yu Xu as Yilang.
A few days later, he was promoted to a scholar.
At this time, the chief official and the two thousand stones used money to redeem the people who committed crimes, which was called "righteous money". They pretended to be saving for the poor, but the guards used it to embezzle.
Yu Xu Shangshu said: Since the first year of the year, the poor people have publicly exposed the officials who accepted more than one million yuan. There has been endless controversy over this, and tens of millions of officials have been relegated and punished, but the three officials and the governor rarely reported it.
Soon, during the Yongping and Zhanghe reigns, the prefectures and counties used money from pawns to lend money to the poor. Sikong investigated and punished him, and all the prefectures and counties were dismissed for the crime.
It is time to follow the rules and regulations of the past and abolish all expedients.
The edict approved Yu Xu's report. The state and county were severely criticized.
Exile, punishment, loss and redemption were banned from now on.
Previously, the chief clerk of Ningyang went to the court to complain that the county magistrate had violated the law, and ignored it for six or seven years.
The master's book wrote: I am your Majesty's son, and Your Majesty is your father.
I have written hundreds of memorials, but in the end I ignored them. How can I go to the Xiongnu Chanyu to complain?
The emperor was furious and showed the memorial to the minister, who judged him to be a treasonous person.
Yu Xu retorted, saying: The chief secretary reported this to the emperor because his father resented him. It is Yousi's mistake to fail to reach the goal.
Stupid people are not enough to be punished.
The emperor took Yu Xu's advice and gave him a spanking.
Therefore, Yu Xu said to all the ministers: "A villain has a grudge. He traveled thousands of miles, cut off his hair and carved his muscles, and made up his mind to complain to the court. You ignored him. Isn't it in line with the righteousness of the ministers?"
What kinship do you have with those corrupt officials, and what hatred do you have against the haters?
I was so ashamed after hearing this.
Yu Xu said again: "Shang Shulang is an important position, the ladder of officialdom. Now some people have seven or eight people in a county, and some have no people in a state. They should be equalized to meet the expectations of the world."
Many of Yu Xu's memorials were mostly adopted.
This offended his relatives many times. He was reprimanded nine times and punished three times, but his upright character remained unyielding until old age. At the beginning of Yongyuan Dynasty, he was promoted to Shangshu Ling and dismissed due to official business. The imperial court missed his loyalty and recruited him again, but he happened to die.
On his deathbed, he said to Zi Yugong: I serve the court with integrity and selflessness, and I have no regrets in everything I do. What I regret is that as a Chao Ge, I killed hundreds of thieves for a long time. How could I not be unjust? Since then, there has not been a single person in the family for more than 20 years. This is because I have been punished by God!

summary:
Yu Xu, from Wuping in Chen, was known for his integrity. His grandfather, a prison officer, handled cases with compassion. Yu Xu was orphaned young and cared for his grandmother, refusing an official post until after her death. He later served as a doctor. When General Deng Zhi proposed abandoning Liangzhou due to Qiang rebellions, Yu Xu argued against it, stating it would expose the imperial tombs and that Liangzhou's people were a vital defense. He suggested controlling local leaders by giving their sons official posts to prevent rebellion. Deng Zhi, resentful of Yu Xu's opposition, sent him to govern Chaoge, a bandit-ridden area. Yu Xu used deception, recruiting former bandits to ambush others and marking thieves' clothes with silk threads, leading to their dispersal. Promoted to Wudu's prefect, he again used deception against the Qiang, increasing his campfires to feign strength and marching rapidly. He then used a strategy of weak arrows to lure the Qiang into range of his strong crossbows, defeating them. He improved the county by building fortifications, opening waterways for transport, and increasing the population. As Sili Xiaowei, he impeached powerful officials, earning their hatred. He was framed and sentenced to hard labor, but eunuch Sun Cheng defended him, leading to his release and promotion. He later abolished the practice of "righteous money" and argued for fair treatment of petitioners. He remained upright despite nine reprimands and three punishments, dying as Shangshu Ling. On his deathbed, he regretted killing many bandits at Chaoge, believing it brought divine punishment.

================================================================================

Summary line 1
Span: 132-177 (score=0.4840)

original:
陛下仁德宽容，多所不忍，故阉竖弄权，忠臣不进。
诚使张角枭夷，黄巾变服，臣之所忧，甫益深耳。
何者？
夫邪正之人不宜共国，亦犹冰炭不可同器。
彼知正人之功显，而危亡之兆见，皆将巧辞饰说，共长虚伪。夫孝子疑于屡至，市虎成于三夫。
若不详察真伪，忠臣将复有杜邮之戮矣。陛下宜思虞舜四罪之举，速行谗佞放殛之诛，则善人思进，奸凶自息。
臣闻忠臣之事君，犹孝子之事父也。
子之事父，焉得不尽其情？
使臣身备鈇钺之戮，陛下少用其言，国之福也。
书奏，宦者赵忠见而忿恶。
及破张角，燮功多当封，忠诉谮之，灵帝犹识燮言，得不加罪，竟亦不封，以为安定都尉。
以疾免。
后拜议郎。
会西羌反，边章、韩遂作乱陇右，征发天下。
役赋无已。司徒崔烈以为宜弃凉州。
诏会公卿百官，烈坚执先议。
燮厉言曰： 斩司徒，天下乃安。
尚书郎杨赞奏燮廷辱大臣。
帝以问燮。
燮对曰：昔冒顿至逆也，樊哙为上将，愿得十万众横行匈奴中，愤激思奋，未失人臣之节，顾计当从与不耳，季布犹曰 哙可斩也。
今凉州天下要冲，国家籓卫。
高祖初兴，使郦商别定陇右；宗世拓境，列置四郡，议者以为断匈奴右臂。
今牧御失和，使一州叛逆，海内为之骚动，陛下卧不安寝。
烈为宰相，不念为国思所以弭之之策，乃欲割弃一方万里之土，臣窃惑之。
若使左衽之虏得居此地，士劲甲坚，因以为乱，此天下之至虑，社稷之深忧也。
若烈不知之，是极蔽也；知而故言，是不忠也。
帝以燮议。
由是朝廷重其方格，每公卿有缺，为众议所归。
顷之，赵忠为车骑将军，诏忠论讨黄巾之功，执金吾甄举等谓忠曰： 傅南容前在东军，有功不侯，故天下失望。
今将军亲当重任，宜进贤理屈，以副众心。
忠纳其言，遣弟城门校尉延致殷勤。
延谓燮曰： 南容少答我常侍，万户侯不足得也。
燮正色拒之曰： 遇与不遇，命也；有功不论，时也。
傅燮岂求私赏哉！
忠愈怀恨，然惮其名，不敢害。
权贵亦多疾之，是以不得留，出为汉阳太守。
初，郡将范津明知人，举燮孝廉。
及津为汉阳，与燮交代，合符而去，乡邦荣之。
津字文渊，南阳人。
燮善恤人，叛羌怀其恩化，并来降附，乃广开屯田，列置四十余营。
时，刺史耿鄙委任治中程球，球为通奸利，士人怨之。
中平四年，鄙率六郡兵讨金城贼王国、韩遂等。
燮知鄙失众，必败，谏曰：
使君统政日浅，人未知数。
孔子曰： 不教人战，是谓弃之。
今率不习之人，越大陇之阻，将十举十危，而贼闻大军将至，必万人一心。

translation:
The emperor is benevolent and tolerant, but he is merciless in punishing bad people. Therefore, the eunuchs exercise great power, and loyal ministers cannot have any influence.
Zhang Jiao was truly eliminated and the Yellow Turbans surrendered, which made me even more worried.
Why?
Because evil people and upright people cannot be together, just as ice cubes and charcoal cannot be placed together in the same container.
All these illustrate the seriousness of rumors and rumors. If we don't examine the truth of the matter in detail, the incident of loyal ministers committing suicide like Bai Qi can also be seen today.
The emperor should think about Yu Shun's resolute treatment of the four villains, and quickly punish those bad guys who framed the traitors. In this way, the good people will come to the emperor's side, and the traitors will be eliminated.
I have heard that loyal ministers serve their monarch as filial sons serve their parents.
How can a son not serve his father wholeheartedly?
If I am executed by Yu Fuyue for this, it will be a blessing to the country if the emperor can accept a few words from me!
The eunuch Zhao Zhong was extremely angry after reading the book.
When Zhang Jiao was defeated, Fu Xie deserved to be knighted because of his many merits. Zhao Zhong framed him. Emperor Ling still remembered Fu Xie's words, so he was able to avoid the crime and finally appointed him as the captain of Anding.
Dismissed due to illness.
Later he was awarded the title of Yilang.
When the Xiqiang rebelled, Bian Zhang and Han Sui made trouble in Longyou, asking for money and people from the people endlessly.
Situ Cui Lie believed that Liangzhou should be abandoned.
The imperial edict met with hundreds of officials to discuss, but Cui Lie insisted on his opinion.
Fu Xie said sternly: If Situ is killed, the world will be safe.
Shangshu Lang Yang Zan reported that Fu Xie insulted ministers in the court.
Emperor Ling asked Fu Xie about this.
Fu Xie replied: "In the past, Maodun was a great rebel. Fan Kuai was the general. Please lead a hundred thousand people to rampage among the Xiongnu." Ji Bu was extremely angry and wanted to work hard. He did not lose the moral integrity of a minister. It was just a matter of whether his strategy would work or not. Ji Bu also said: "Fan Kuai can be killed."
Now Liangzhou is the center of the world and the country's screen.
When Emperor Gaozu first rose to prominence, he made Qing Shang the captain of Longxi Province, and designated the Northern Territory as his own. Emperor Wu opened up the territory and established the four counties of Wuwei, Jiuquan, Zhangye, and Dunhuang, and cut off the right arm of the Xiongnu.
Now the discord between officials and officials has caused rebellion in one state, causing turmoil in the country and making the emperor restless.
As the prime minister, Cui Lie didn't want to quell the rebellion for the country, but wanted to cede thousands of miles of land. I doubt this idea.
If the barbarians gain this territory, have strong soldiers and sophisticated weapons, and cause rebellion, this will be a great trouble for the world and a deep worry for the country!
If Cui Lie didn't know, it would be a great stupidity; if he knew and said so deliberately, it would be disloyal.
Emperor Ling adopted Fu Xie's opinion.
Because the imperial court highly valued Fu Xie's uprightness, when the minister was vacant, he was expected by everyone.
Soon, Zhao Zhong became the general of chariots and cavalry, and ordered Zhao Zhong to discuss his merits in the crusade against the Yellow Turbans. Zhijinwu Zhenju and others said to Zhao Zhong: Fu Nanrong was in the Eastern Army before. He had merits but was not granted a title. Everyone in the world was disappointed.
Now the general has the important task of advancing the wise and redressing grievances in order to conform to everyone's wishes.
Zhao Zhong accepted his words. He sent his younger brother Chengmen School Captain Zhao Yan to express his yearning.
Zhao Yan said to Fu Xie: "Nan Rong is a little bit polite and I am a regular servant, but Wanhu Hou is not enough for you!"
Fu Xie refused sternly and said: Whether a person succeeds or fails is determined by fate; merit without reward is caused by the times.
Do I, Fu Xie, still want a private reward?
Zhao Zhong was even more resentful, but he was too famous to dare to harm him.
There are also many powerful people who are jealous of him, so they are not allowed to stay in the court and become the governor of Hanyang.
At first, Fan Jin, the general of the county, had the knack of knowing people and promoted Fu Xie as Xiaolian.
Later, Fan Jin was appointed as the prefect of Hanyang. When Fu Xie left, Fan Jin went through the handover procedures with him. After passing the verification, he left. The country and the country were proud of them.
Fan Jin, courtesy name Wenyuan, was from Nanyang.
Fu Xie was good at sympathizing with people, and the rebellious Qiang people were moved by his kindness and enlightenment, and they all surrendered. He cleared the land and cultivated fields and set up more than forty camps to accommodate them.
At this time, the governor Geng Bi appointed Cheng Qiu to be in charge. Cheng Qiu sought personal gain for him and associated with traitors, and the soldiers hated him.
In the fourth year of Zhongping, Geng Bi led soldiers from six counties to conquer the Kingdom of Jincheng, Han Sui and others.
Fu Xie knew that Geng Bi had broken people's trust and must fail.
The admonishment said: The emperor has not been in power for a long time, and the people do not know how to educate him.
Confucius said: To make people fight without first teaching them is to abandon them.
Now he leads untrained men across the dangers of Dalong. There will be ten dangers and ten dangers. When the thieves hear that the army is coming, they will surely unite as one.

summary:
Fu Xie, from Lingzhou, was known for his caution in speech and action. He served as Sima under Huangfu Song against Zhang Jiao's Yellow Turbans. Before the campaign, he warned the emperor that the real threat was internal, from eunuchs like Zhao Zhong, and that evil and good cannot coexist. Despite his merits, Zhao Zhong framed him, but the emperor spared him. Later, when Situ Cui Lie proposed abandoning Liangzhou during a Xiqiang rebellion, Fu Xie vehemently opposed him, arguing that Liangzhou was the empire's shield and that abandoning it would empower the barbarians. The emperor agreed. Fu Xie refused to curry favor with the powerful eunuch Zhao Zhong, even when offered a marquisate. As Hanyang's governor, he pacified the Qiang. He warned Governor Geng Bi against attacking Han Sui with untrained troops, predicting disaster. Geng Bi ignored him and was killed. When Hanyang was besieged, Fu Xie refused to abandon the city despite his son's pleas and the offer of safe passage from grateful Hu cavalry. He chose to die in battle, cursing a defecting official. His posthumous title was Zhuangjiehou.

================================================================================

Summary line 2
Span: 204-258 (score=0.4811)

original:
盖勋字元固，敦煌广至人也。
家世二千石。
初举孝廉，为汉阳长史。
时，武威太守倚恃权势，恣行贪横，从事武都苏正和案致其罪。
凉州刺史梁鹄畏惧贵戚，欲杀正和以免其负，乃访之于勋。
勋素与正和有仇，或劝勋可因此报隙。
勋曰： 不可。
谋事杀良，非忠也；乘人之危，非仁也。
乃谏鹄曰： 夫绁食鹰鸢欲其鸷，鸷而亨之，将何用哉？
鹄从其言。
正和喜于得免，而诣勋求谢。
勋不见，曰： 吾为梁使君谋，不为苏正和也。
怨之如初。
中平元年，北地羌胡与边章等寇乱陇右，刺史左昌因军兴新盗数千万。
勋固谏，昌怒，乃使勋别屯阿阳以拒贼锋，欲因军事罪之，而勋数有战功。
边章等遂攻金城，杀郡守陈懿，勋劝昌救之，不从。
边章等进围昌于冀，昌惧而召勋。
勋初与从事辛曾、孔常俱屯阿阳，及昌檄到，曾等疑不肯赴。
勋怒曰： 昔庄贾后期，穰苴奋剑。
今之从事，岂重于古之监军哉！
曾等惧而从之。
勋即率兵救昌。
到，乃诮让章等，责以背叛之罪。
皆曰： 左使君若早从君言，以兵临我，庶可自改。今罪已重，不得降也。
乃解围而去。
昌坐断盗征，以扶风宋枭代之。
枭患多寇叛，谓勋曰： 凉州寡于学术，故屡致反暴。
今欲多写《孝经》，令家家习之，庶或使人知义。
勋谏曰： 昔太公封齐，崔杼杀君；伯禽侯鲁，庆父篡位。
此二国岂乏学者？
今不急静难之术，遽为非常之事，既足结怨一州，又当取笑朝廷，勋不知其可也。
枭不从，遂奏行之。果被诏书诘责，坐以虚慢征。
时，叛羌围护羌校尉夏育于畜官，勋与州郡合兵救育，至狐，为羌所破。
勋收余众百余人，为鱼丽之陈。
羌精骑夹攻之急，士卒多死。
勋被三创，坚不动，乃指木表曰： 必尸我于此。
句就种羌滇吾素为勋所厚，乃以兵扞众曰： 盖长史贤人，汝曹杀之者为负天。
勋仰骂曰： 死反虏，汝何知，促来杀我！
众相视而惊。
滇吾下马与勋，勋不肯上，遂为贼所执。
羌戎服其义勇，不敢加害，送还汉阳。
后刺史杨雍即表勋领汉阳太守。
时人饥，相渔食，勋调谷禀之，先出家粮以率众，存活者千余人。
后去官，征拜讨虏校尉。
灵帝召见，问： 天下何苦而反乱如此？
勋曰： 幸臣子弟扰之。
时宦者上军校尉蹇硕在坐，帝顾问硕，硕惧，不知所对，而以此恨勋。
帝又谓勋曰： 吾已陈师于平乐观，多出中藏财物以饵士，何如？
勋曰： 臣闻 先王燿德不观兵 。
今寇在远而设近陈，不足昭果毅，秪黩武耳。 帝曰： 善。
恨见君晚，群臣初无是言也。
勋时与宗正刘虞、佐军校尉袁绍同典禁兵。
勋谓虞、绍曰： 吾仍见上，上甚聪明，但拥蔽于左右耳。
若共并力诛嬖幸，然后征拔英俊，以兴汉室，功遂身退，岂不快乎！
虞、绍亦素有谋，因相连结，未及发，而司隶校尉张温举勋为京兆尹。

translation:
◆In the biography of Gai Xun, Gai Xun was named Yuan Gu and was a native of Guangzhi County, Dunhuang County.
From generation to generation, the family is worth two thousand stones.
He was initially elected as Xiaolian and appointed as the chief historian of Hanyang.
At this time, the prefect of Wuwei relied on powerful officials, was corrupt, violent, and had no scruples, and was engaged in Wudu Su Zhenghe's investigation of his crimes.
Liangzhou Governor Liang Hu was afraid of his noble relatives and wanted to kill Su Zhenghe to avoid the guilt of Wuwei Prefect, so he asked Gai Xun for advice.
Gai Xun usually had a grudge against Su Zhenghe, and some people advised Gai Xun to take revenge on him.
Gai Xun said: No.
It is unfaithful to kill a good person because of something; it is unkind to take advantage of others when they are in danger to attack them.
So he admonished Liang Hu and said: "I originally wanted to eat the eagle and the kite because I wanted to get the bird of prey. Now that I have the bird of prey and I cook and kill it, what's the use?"
Liang Hu accepted his words.
Su Zhenghe was happy that he was saved from being killed and ran to Gai Xun to thank him.
Gai Xun refused to receive him and said, "I am offering advice for Liang Shijun, not for Su Zhenghe."
He still hates Su Zhenghe as before.
In the first year of Zhongping, the Qiang Hu and Bian Zhang from the north invaded Longyou, and the governor Zuo Chang cut off tens of millions due to the opportunity of the war.
Gai Xun strongly remonstrated, but Zuo Chang became angry, so he ordered Gai Xun to station in Ayang to resist the bandit's elite troops, hoping to use military force to incriminate him. Gai Xun had many military exploits.
Bian Zhang and others attacked Jincheng and killed the governor Chen Yi. Gai Xun persuaded Zuo Chang to rescue him.
Zuo Chang didn't listen. Bian Zhang and others then surrounded Zuo Chang in Ji. Zuo Chang was afraid and asked Gai Xun to go.
Gai Xun first stationed himself in Ayang with Xin Zeng and Kong Chang. When Zuo Chang's urgent military message arrived, Xin Zeng and Kong Chang hesitated and refused to go.
Gai Xun said angrily: "In the past, Zhuang Jia supervised Sima Rangju's army. Because he did not arrive on time, Rangzhi acted according to military law and killed him.
Is what we are doing now more valuable than overseeing the army in ancient times?
Xin Zeng and others were afraid and had no choice but to listen to Gai Xun.
Gai Xun immediately mobilized his troops to rescue Zuo Chang.
When he arrived in Ji, he accused Bian Zhang and others of treason.
They all said: If Ambassador Zuo had listened to you and led troops to attack me, I would have been able to correct my evil ways. Now my sin is too serious and I cannot surrender!
So he withdrew the siege and left.
Zuo Chang was summoned for the crime of cutting and intercepting, and he was replaced by Fufeng Song Xiao.
Song Xiao suffered from the invasion and rebellion of foreign tribes in the border areas, and told Gai Xun: Liangzhou has repeatedly resisted riots because of its backward culture and lack of scholars.
Now I want to write more "The Classic of Filial Piety" so that every household can learn it. This may help people know etiquette and justice.
Gai Xun remonstrated: In the past, when the Grand Duke was granted the title of Qi, Cui Zhu killed Duke Zhuang of Qi, Bo Qin was granted the title of Lu, and Qing's father attacked and killed Duke Min of Lu.
Are there still a shortage of scholars in these two countries?
Don't rush to find a solution to the problem now. Doing such unrealistic things can not only make a state angry, but also make the court laugh. I don't know this is a good idea.
Song Xiao refused to listen to him and went to the court to implement it. As expected, Gai Xun's words were not followed, so he was criticized by the imperial edict and summoned for being guilty of being conceited.
At this time, the rebel Qiang surrounded Xia Yu, the Qiang guard captain. Gai Xun and the prefectures and counties jointly sent troops to rescue Xia Yu, but were defeated by the Qiang soldiers when they arrived in Hu.
Gai Xun gathered more than a hundred defeated soldiers to form Yuli's formation.
The elite Qiang cavalry attacked from both sides, and many soldiers died.
Gai Xun was injured in three places, but he stood firm, pointed at the wooden sign and said: "Kill me here."
In the sentence, I planted Qiang Dianwu. I had received Gai Xun's kindness on weekdays, so I stopped everyone with weapons and said: Gai Changshi is a wise man. Killing him is called deceiving the sky.
Gai Xun raised his head and cursed: "You are a rebel, what do you know?" Come and kill me!
The soldiers looked at me and I looked at you, shocked.
Dian Wu jumped off his horse and asked Gai Xun to mount his horse. Gai Xun refused and was captured by the bandit soldiers.
Qiang Rong admired Gai Xun's righteousness. He was brave enough to conquer the three armies and did not dare to harm him, so he was sent back to Hanyang.
Later, the governor Yang Yong recommended Gai Xun to concurrently serve as the prefect of Hanyang.
At that time, there was a famine and people were cannibalizing. Gai Xun allocated food to relieve the famine. He first took out his own food to set an example and saved more than a thousand hungry people.
Later, he resigned from the official position and was conscripted as the captain of the school to fight against the captives.
Emperor Ling summoned him and asked: Why is the world so rebellious?
Gai Xun said: It was caused by the eunuch's children.
At this time, Jian Shuo, the eunuch and commander of the military academy, was standing by. Emperor Ling turned back to Jian Shuo. Jian Shuo was afraid and didn't know how to persuade Gai Xun, so he hated Gai Xun.
Emperor Ling said to Gai Xun again: "I have concentrated the troops in Pingtang. How about taking out more of the hidden treasures and giving them to the soldiers?"
Gai Xun said: I heard that the late king Mingde did not show troops.
Now the enemy is far away and arrayed nearby. This is not enough to show the country's courage and determination. It is just a waste of force. Emperor Ling said: Very good.
It's a pity that it's too late to see you. My ministers have never said such things!
At that time, Gai Xun, Zong Zheng, Liu Yu, and Assistant Military Colonel Yuan Shao were in charge of the emperor's security forces.
Gai Xun said to Liu Yu and Yuan Shao: I have seen the emperor many times. The emperor is very smart, but he is just deceived by the left and right.
If everyone worked together to kill the eunuchs, recruit and select handsome talents, revive the Han Dynasty, and retire with great success, wouldn't it be a great thing?
Liu Yu and Yuan Shao had also discussed this matter on weekdays, so they contacted each other. Before they could take action, Sili Colonel Zhang Wen recommended Gai Xun to serve as Jing Zhaoyin.

summary:
Gai Xun, from Dunhuang, was a Xiaolian and Hanyang's chief historian. He refused to take revenge on an enemy, Su Zhenghe, when the governor wanted to kill him to cover for a corrupt prefect, arguing it was wrong to kill a good man. He later remonstrated with Governor Zuo Chang for embezzling funds, but Zuo Chang sent him to a dangerous post. Gai Xun survived and later rescued Zuo Chang from a siege by Bian Zhang. He criticized Governor Song Xiao's plan to teach the *Classic of Filial Piety* to pacify the border, calling it impractical. During a battle against Qiang rebels, he was wounded but refused to flee, cursing his captors. The Qiang, respecting his courage, released him. As a famine relief official, he used his own grain to save over a thousand people. Summoned by Emperor Ling, he blamed eunuchs for the world's chaos. He planned with Liu Yu and Yuan Shao to kill the eunuchs, but was made Jing Zhaoyin instead. There, he prosecuted a corrupt official despite pleas from nobles. After Emperor Ling's death, he wrote to Dong Zhuo, criticizing his deposition of the young emperor. He openly defied Dong Zhuo in court, refusing to bow. He died of illness at 51, refusing Dong Zhuo's funeral gifts.

================================================================================

Summary line 3
Span: 294-337 (score=0.5664)

original:
旻率丹阳太守陈夤击昭，破之。
昭遂复更屯结，大为人患。
旻等进兵。连战三年，破平之，获昭父子，斩首数千级。
迁旻为使匈奴中郎将。
洪年十五，以父功拜童子郎，知名太学。
洪体貌魁梧，有异姿。
举孝廉，补即丘长。
中平末，弃官还家，太守张超请为功曹。
时，董卓弑帝，图危社稷。
洪说超曰： 明府历世受恩，兄弟并据大郡。今王室将危，贼臣虎视，此诚义士效命之秋也。
今郡境尚全，吏人殷富，若动桴鼓，可得二万人。以此诛除国贼，为天下唱义，不亦宜乎！
超然其言，与洪西至陈留，见兄邈计事。
邈先谓超曰： 闻弟为郡，委政臧洪，洪者何如人？
超曰： 臧洪海内奇士，才略智数不比于超矣。
邈即引洪与语，大异之。
乃使诣兗州刺史刘岱、豫州刺史孔亻由，遂皆相善。
邈既先有谋约，会超至，定议，乃与诸牧守大会酸枣。
设坛场，将盟，既而更相辞让，莫敢先登，咸共推洪。
洪乃摄衣升坛，操血而盟曰： 汉室不幸，皇纲失统，贼臣董卓，乘衅纵害，祸加至尊，毒流百姓。
大惧沦丧社稷，剪覆四海。
兗州刺史岱、豫州刺史亻由、陈留太守邈、东郡太守瑁、广陵太守超等，纠合义兵，并赴国难。
凡我同盟，齐心一力，以致臣节，陨首丧元，必无二志。
有渝此盟，俾坠其命，无克遗育。
皇天后土，祖宗明灵，实皆鉴之。
洪辞气慷慨，闻其言者，无不激扬。
自是之后，诸军各怀迟疑，莫适先进，遂使粮储单竭，兵众乖散。
时，讨虏校尉公孙瓚与大司马刘虞有隙，超乃遣洪诣虞，共谋其难。行至河间而值幽、冀交兵，行涂阻绝，因寓于袁绍。
绍见洪，甚奇之，与结友好，以洪领青州刺史。
前刺史焦和好立虚誉，能清谈。
时黄巾群贼处处飙起，而青部殷实，军革尚众。
和欲与诸同盟西赴京师，未及得行。而贼已屠城邑。
和不理戎警，但坐列巫史，萗祷群神。
又恐贼乘冻而过，命多作陷冰丸，以投于河。
众遂溃散，和亦病卒。
洪收抚离叛，百姓复安。
在事二年，袁绍惮其能，徙为东郡太守，都东武阳。
时曹操围张超于雍丘，甚危急。
超谓军吏曰： 今日之事，唯有臧洪必来救我。
或曰： 袁、曹方穆，而洪为绍所用，恐不能败好远来，违福取祸。
超曰： 子源天下义士，终非背本者也，或见制强力，不相及耳。
洪始闻超围，乃徒跣号泣，并勒所领，将赴其难。
自以众弱，以绍请兵，而绍竟不听之，超城遂陷，张氏族灭。
洪由是怨绍，绝不与通。
绍兴兵围之，历年不下，使洪邑人陈琳以书譬洪，示其祸福，责以恩义。

translation:
Zang Min led Chen Wei, the governor of Danyang, to defeat Xu Zhao.
Xu Zhao still gathered his troops to harm the people.
Zang Min and others sent troops to conquer and fought for three years before finally pacifying Xu Zhao, capturing Xu Zhao and his son, and killing thousands of people.
Zang Min was promoted to be the envoy to the Xiongnu Zhonglang General.
In the fifteenth year of Zang Hong's year, because of his father's contribution to the country, he was appointed Dong Zilang, who was famous in the Imperial Academy.
His physical appearance is different from ordinary people.
He was promoted to be filial and honest, and he was appointed as a complement to Lang Qiuchang.
At the end of Zhongping Dynasty, he resigned and returned home. The prefect Zhang Chao asked him to be a meritorious official.
At this time, Dong Zhuo killed the emperor and wanted to seize the Han Dynasty.
Zang Hong said that Zhang Chao said: The prefect has been favored by the imperial court for generations, and his brothers have all served as high counties. Now the royal family is in danger, and thieves and ministers are watching. This is really the time for those who are loyal to the country to serve.
Now that the county is still intact and the people are prosperous, if the war drums sound, we can gather 20,000 people and lead them to kill the national traitors and hold high the flag of righteousness for the world. Wouldn't it be great?
Zhang Chao agreed with his opinion and went to Chenliu with Zang Hongxi to discuss with his brother Zhang Miao.
Zhang Miao first said to Zhang Chao: I heard that you are a prefect and leave government affairs to Zang Hong. What kind of person is Zang Hong?
Zhang Chao said: Zang Hong is a strange man in the country. He is more talented and resourceful than me.
Zhang Miao immediately talked to Zang Hong and greatly appreciated him.
He sent Zang Hong to see Liu Dai, the governor of Yanzhou, and Kong Danyou, the governor of Yuzhou, and they both became close friends with each other.
Zhang Miao originally had an agreement. When Zhang Chao arrived, he made the decision, so he held a meeting with the herdsmen in Suanzao.
They set up a altar and prepared to make an alliance, but they gave in to each other. No one dared to go first, and everyone recommended Zang Hong.
Zang Hong then raised his clothes to the altar, expressed his blood and made an alliance, saying: The Han Dynasty was unlucky, and the rules and regulations of the court were in chaos. The traitor Dong Zhuo took the opportunity to cause harm, and the disaster fell on the emperor and poisoned the people.
The most terrifying thing is that the Han Dynasty fell and the country was ruined.
Liu Dai, the governor of Yanzhou, Kong Qianyou, the governor of Yuzhou, Zhang Miao, the governor of Chenliu, Qiao Mao, the governor of Dongjun, Zhang Chao, the governor of Guangling, etc., gathered volunteers to fight against the national calamity.
All those who are in our alliance will work together to fulfill the loyalty of our ministers and kill their heads as they please without any second thought.
If he violates the oath, he will die and die without any descendants.
The emperor, the queen, the earth, the ancestors and the gods all learn from each other.
Zang Hong's poems were so passionate that everyone who listened to them got excited.
From then on, each army hesitated, and no one dared to go first, resulting in insufficient military supplies and the disintegration of the soldiers.
At this time, Gongsun Zan, the commander-in-chief of the imperial army, had a disagreement with Liu Yu, the commander-in-chief. Zhang Chao sent Zang Hong to find Liu Yu to discuss the plan to defeat the bandits. When they walked to the river, they encountered a war between You and Ji, and the road was blocked, so they went to Yuan Shao's place.
Yuan Shao met Zang Hong and admired his talent. He became friends with Zang Hong and asked Zang Hong to act as the governor of Qingzhou.
The former governor, Jiao He, had a false reputation and was a master of empty words.
At this time, yellow scarf thieves were scurrying everywhere, and the people in Qingzhou were rich and had many troops and equipment.
Jiao He wanted to go to the capital with various allies, but before he left, the Yellow Turban thieves had already arrived, conquered the city and massacred the people.
Jiao He didn't know anything about military affairs, so he just invited the witch Zhu Shi to his house to pray for God's blessing.
He was also afraid that yellow turban thieves would cross the river during the freezing period, so he ordered many ice-trap pills to be made and placed in the river.
His tribe was disbanded and Jiao He also died of illness.
Zang Hong gathered together to comfort the scattered tribes, and the people were at peace.
In the second year of his reign, Yuan Shao was afraid of his incompetence and appointed him as the prefect of Dongjun, with his capital in Dongwuyang.
At this time, Cao Cao surrounded Zhang Chao in Yongqiu, and the situation was very dangerous.
Zhang Chao said to the soldiers: Zang Hong is the only one who will come to save me today.
Some people say: Yuan Shao and Cao Cao are getting along well, and Zang Hong is Yuan Shao's man. I'm afraid Zang Hong will not come far away, and he will bring disaster instead of good fortune.
Zhang Chao said: Ziyuan is a righteous man in the world and will never deviate from his original aspirations. He may be held hostage by force, but there is nothing we can do!
Zang Hong began to hear that Zhang Chao was surrounded, cried barefoot, and prepared his troops to rescue Zhang Chao.
Thinking that his troops were too weak, he asked Yuan Shao for troops, but Yuan Shao refused. Zhang Chao's defense was breached and Zhang Chao's entire clan was killed.
Zang Hong resented Yuan Shao and severed ties with him.
Yuan Shao sent troops to surround Zang Hong, but could not capture it after many years. Yuan Shao sent Zang Hong to write a letter to Zang Hong from Chen Lin, a county resident, explaining the blessings and misfortunes to Zang Hong, and blaming each other with personal kindness and national justice.

summary:
Zang Hong, from Guangling, was made a Dong Zilang due to his father's military merits. After Dong Zhuo killed the emperor, Zang Hong urged Prefect Zhang Chao to raise an army. He helped organize an alliance at Suanzao, where he gave a passionate oath, calling for the destruction of Dong Zhuo. The alliance, however, failed to act decisively. Later, Zang Hong served Yuan Shao as Qingzhou's governor, pacifying the region. When Cao Cao besieged Zhang Chao, Zang Hong begged Yuan Shao for troops to rescue him, but Yuan Shao refused. Zhang Chao was killed. Enraged, Zang Hong broke with Yuan Shao, who then besieged him. Despite a letter from Chen Lin urging surrender, Zang Hong refused, accusing Yuan Shao of betraying allies and killing loyal men. He stated he would rather die for righteousness. During the siege, he shared his last food with his soldiers and even killed his concubine to feed them. The city fell, and Zang Hong was captured. He defiantly cursed Yuan Shao for his treachery and was executed. His subordinate Chen Rong also chose to die with him.

================================================================================

