Summary line 0
Span: 0-27 (score=0.6083)

original:
古者天子建国，诸侯立家，自卿、大夫以至于庶人，各有等差，是以民服事其上，而下无觊觎。
孔子曰： 天下有道，政不在大夫。
百官有司奉法承令，以修所职，失职有诛，侵官有罚。
夫然，故上下相顺，而庶事理焉。
周室既微，礼乐征伐自诸侯出。
桓、文之后，大夫世权，陪臣执命。
陵夷至于战国，合从连衡，力政争强。
由是列国公子，魏有信陵、赵有平原、齐有孟尝、楚有春申，皆借王公之势，竞为游侠，鸡鸣狗盗，无不宾礼。
而赵相虞卿弃国捐君，以周穷交魏齐之厄；信陵无忌窃符矫命，戮将专师，以赴平原之急：皆以取重诸侯，显名天下，扼腕而游谈者，以四豪为称首。
于是背公死党之议成，守职奉上之义废矣。
及至汉兴，禁网疏阔，未之匡改也。
是故代相陈豨从车千乘，而吴濞、淮南皆招宾客以千数。
外戚大臣魏其、武安之属竞逐于京师，布衣游侠剧孟、郭解之徒驰骛于闾阎，权行州域，力折公侯。
众庶荣其名迹，觊而慕之。
虽其陷于刑辟，自与杀身成名，若季路、仇牧，死而不悔也。
故曾子曰： 上失其道，民散久矣。
非明王在上，视之以好恶，齐之以礼法，民曷由知禁而反正乎！
古之正法：五伯，三王之罪人也；而六国，五伯之罪人也。
夫四豪者，又六国之罪人也。
况于郭解之伦，以匹夫之细，窃杀生之权，其罪已不容于诛矣。
观其温良泛爱，振穷周急，谦退不伐，亦皆有绝异之姿。
惜乎不入于道德，苟放纵于末流，杀身亡宗，非不幸也。
自魏其、武安、淮南之后，天子切齿，卫、霍改节。
然郡国豪桀处处各有，京师亲戚冠盖相望，亦古今常道，莫足言者。
唯成帝时，外家王氏宾客为盛，而楼护为帅。
及王莽时，诸公之间陈遵为雄，闾里之侠原涉为魁。
朱家，鲁人，高祖同时也。
鲁人皆以儒教，而朱家用侠闻。

translation:
In ancient times, when the emperor established a country, the princes established their families, and there were certain levels of hierarchy from officials to common people, so that the people could obey their superiors and subordinates would stop having any wrong ideas.
Confucius said: When the world is at peace, the highest political power of the country will not be in the hands of the officials.
All officials can obey the law and perform their duties, those who neglect their duties will be investigated and those who violate the law will be punished.
Only in this way can everything go smoothly and everything is in order.
With the decline of the Zhou royal family, the formulation of ritual and music conquests began to be made by the princes individually.
After Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin, the officials had exclusive power and issued orders to important ministers in the court.
When the situation evolved into the Warring States Period, the princes began to join forces with each other. They abandoned propriety and justice and fought with prestige and force.
As a result, some princes from various countries, such as Lord Xinling of Wei, Lord Pingyuan of Zhao, Lord Mengchang of Qi, and Lord Chunshen of Chu, all relied on the authority of princes and nobles to compete to become knight-errants. Those who croaked, roosters, and dogs were all disrespectful and submitted to them.
The Prime Minister Yu Qing did not hesitate to leave the country and the monarch to save his friend Wei Qi from danger; Wei Wuji, the Lord of Xinling, stole the military talisman, falsely conveyed the monarch's orders, hunted down the generals, and sent out a dedicated army to relieve the Pingyuan Lord of Zhao State from being besieged by the Qin soldiers. They are all famous for their emphasis on relations between princes. Those chivalrous people who hold hands and talk are all led by the "four heroes": Lord Xinling, Lord Pingyuan, Lord Mengchang and Lord Chunshen.
As a result, the agreement to betray the imperial court and form secret alliances with best friends became a reality, and the culture of strictly observing official duties and respecting the monarch began to decline.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, bans and regulations were very loose, so the situation of deportation remained unchanged.
Therefore, the Prime Minister sent thousands of chariots with rare entourage, and King Liu Bi of Wu and King Liu An of Huainan both invited thousands of guests.
The subordinates of the foreign ministers Wei Qihou Dou Ying and Wu'an Hou Tianyi were wandering around in the capital to cause trouble. Meng and Guo Xie, who were civilians, wandered in the lanes and rampaged through the prefectures and counties, and their power overran the princes.
Many ordinary people regard their fame and deeds as a kind of honor, yearning for and admiring them.
Even though they were punished by the criminal law, they did not hesitate to kill themselves to become famous, just like Ji Lu and Qiu Mu, who died without regrets.
Therefore, Zengzi said: If those in high positions do not act according to the rules, the people will have long since abandoned their moral principles.
Without a sage king above him to instruct the good and evil in the world and formulate the country's etiquette, how can the people know the prohibitions and correct themselves!
The ancient orthodox view is that the Five Hegemons are the sinners of the Three Kings; and the Six Kingdoms are the sinners of the Five Hegemons.
From this point of view, these four tycoons should be the sinners of the Six Nations.
What's more, people like Guo Xie, in their low status as civilians, stole the power of life and death. Their crimes are already intolerable in heaven and earth.
However, on the other hand, they are gentle and friendly, helpful, humble and courteous, and they all have extraordinary charm.
It is a pity that those who do not conform to the orthodox moral standards can only be classified as the lowest class of unrefined people. It is only natural that they should be killed and exterminated!
Ever since Wei Qihou Dou Ying, Wu'an Hou Tianfen and Huainan King Liu An, the emperor hated them with bitter hatred. Wei Qing and Huo Qubing used them as negative examples.
However, there are heroes everywhere in the county, and their relatives and friends in the capital echo them both inside and outside. This is also a normal phenomenon in ancient and modern times, and there is nothing to say about it.
It was just that during the reign of Emperor Cheng, the number of guests in the Wang family's home was very popular, and Lou Hu was the commander-in-chief.
When Wang Mang came to power, Chen Zun was the most powerful among the princes, and Yuan She was the leader of the knights in the lanes.
The Zhu family, a native of Lu, lived at the same time as Gaozu.
The people of Lu were famous for their belief in Confucianism, but the Zhu family was famous for their love of knight-errants.

summary:
In ancient times, the emperor established a country with a clear hierarchy from officials to common people, ensuring order and obedience. Confucius noted that when the world is at peace, political power does not rest with officials, who must obey the law and face punishment for neglect or violation. However, with the decline of the Zhou royal family, princes began to control rituals and military campaigns. After Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin, officials gained exclusive power, leading to the Warring States Period, where princes abandoned propriety for force. Figures like Lord Xinling, Lord Pingyuan, Lord Mengchang, and Lord Chunshen relied on noble authority to become knight-errants, attracting followers who valued personal bonds over official duties. This trend continued into the Han Dynasty, where bans were loose, and powerful figures like King Liu Bi of Wu and King Liu An of Huainan hosted thousands of guests. Commoners like Guo Xie gained influence, often resorting to violence and crime, yet were admired for their generosity and charm. Despite their crimes, they were seen as sinners against orthodox moral standards, and the emperor eventually ordered Guo Xie's execution for forming a secret faction and abusing power.

================================================================================

Summary line 1
Span: 48-97 (score=0.5704)

original:
郭解，河内轵人也，温善相人许负外孙也。
解父任侠，孝文时诛死。
解为人静悍，不饮酒。
少时阴贼感概，不快意，所杀甚众。
以躯借友报仇，臧命作奸剽攻，休乃铸钱掘冢，不可胜数。
适有天幸，窘急常得脱，若遇赦。
及解年长，更折节为俭，以德报怨，厚施而薄望。
然其自喜为侠益甚。
既已振人之命，不矜其功，其阴贼著于心本发于睚眦如故云。
而少年慕其行，亦辄为报仇，不使知也。
解姊子负解之势，与人饮，使之釂，非其任，强灌之。
人怒，刺杀解姊子，亡去。
解姊怒曰： 以翁伯时人杀吾子，贼不得！ 弃其尸道旁，弗葬，欲以辱解。
解使人微知贼处。
贼窘自归，具以实告解。
解曰： 公杀之当，吾儿不直。
遂去其贼，罪其姊子，收而葬之。
诸公闻之，皆多解之义，益附焉。
解出，人皆避，有一人独箕踞视之。
解问其姓名，客欲杀之。
解曰： 居邑屋不见敬，是吾德不修也，彼何罪！
乃阴请尉史曰： 是人吾所重，至践更时脱之。
每至直更，数过，吏弗求。
怪之，问其故，解使脱之。
箕踞者乃肉袒谢罪。
少年闻之，愈益慕解之行。
洛阳人有相仇者，邑中贤豪居间以十数，终不听。
客乃见解。
解夜见仇家，仇家曲听。
解谓仇家： 吾闻洛阳诸公在间，多不听。
今子幸而听解，解奈何从它县夺人邑贤大夫权乎！
乃夜去，不使人知，曰： 且毋庸，待我去，令洛阳豪居间乃听。
解为人短小，恭俭，出未尝有骑，不敢乘车入其县庭。
之旁郡国，为人请求事，事可出，出之；不可者，各令厌其意，然后乃敢尝酒食。
诸公以此严重之，争为用。
邑中少年及旁近县豪夜半过门，常十余车，请得解客舍养之。
及徙豪茂陵也，解贫，不中訾。吏恐，不敢不徙。
卫将军为言： 郭解家贫，不中徙。
上曰： 解布衣，权至使将军，此其家不贫！
解徙，诸公送者出千余万。
轵人杨季主子为县掾，隔之，解兄子断杨掾头。
解入关，关中贤豪知与不知，闻声争交欢。
邑人又杀杨季主，季主家上书人又杀阙下。
上闻，乃下吏捕解。
解亡，置其母家室夏阳，身至临晋。
临晋籍少翁素不知解，因出关。
籍少翁已出解，解传太原，所过辄告主人处。
吏逐迹至籍少翁，少翁自杀，口绝。
久之得解，穷治所犯为，而解所杀，皆在赦前。
轵有儒生侍使者坐，客誉郭解，生曰： 解专以奸犯公法，何谓贤？

translation:
Guo Xie was a native of Zhi County, Hanoi County, and the grandson of Xu Fu, a good minister from Wen.
Guo Xie's father was a chivalrous man and was killed during the reign of Emperor Xiaowen.
Guo Xie was a calm and brave person, and did not like drinking.
When he was young, he was vicious and violent. Whenever he was unhappy, he would use force to kill people. Many people were hurt by him.
He was willing to sacrifice his life to avenge himself with blood. He also hid desperadoes and carried out robbery and theft. When he had nothing to do, he minted counterfeit money and dug graves. His misdeeds were countless.
Thanks to God's blessing, he was often relieved in times of crisis, as if he had experienced amnesty.
When Guo Xie grew up, he began to reflect on his mistakes, exercise self-discipline, respond to grudges with kindness, be willing to do good, and be pure of desire.
However, his desire to be a knight became stronger and stronger.
Although he has done some good deeds to save lives without seeking fame, his sinister nature is often shown between his eyebrows and remains the same as before.
Many young men admired his character and always took risks and hurt others for revenge, but Guo Xie himself had no way of knowing these things.
Guo Xie's sister's son relied on Guo Xie's reputation and became very domineering. Once he drank with others and made someone drink all the wine in the palace. The person couldn't bear it, so he forced the person to drink.
The man was furious, assassinated Guo Xie's sister's son and fled.
Guo Xie's sister said: You dared to kill my son while Guo Xie was still alive, but the murderer escaped. So she abandoned the son's body on the roadside without burial, hoping to anger Guo Xie with humiliation.
Guo Xie sent people to find out where the murderer was.
He was desperate, so he came over and told Guo Xie the truth.
Guo Xie said: You are right to kill him, it is my son who is shameful.
So he let the murderer go, and Guo Xie placed the blame on his sister's son, collected his body and buried it.
When everyone heard about this, they all respected Guo Xie's benevolence and righteousness, and more and more people followed him.
One time when Guo Xie went out, everyone avoided him. Only one person sat there with his legs stretched out and looked at him.
Guo Xie asked him his name, and his followers wanted to kill the man.
Guo Xie said: Someone disrespected me in the alley because my moral character was questionable. What crime did he have?
So he secretly told Wei Shi: "This man is someone I respect. Please don't use him when recruiting soldiers who are on duty."
Whenever it was time to change the duty, he went there several times, but the officials in charge did not let him change the duty.
He was very surprised and asked the reason. The official told him that it was Guo Xie who exempted him from duty.
Only those who showed disrespect to Guo Xie bared their chests and apologized to Guo Xie.
When the young people heard this, they all admired Guo Xie's character even more.
Someone in Luoyang had an enemy, and more than ten famous people and wealthy people in the city intervened, but the enemy did not listen to his advice.
Someone came to ask Guo Xie.
Guo Xie went to his enemy's house at night to see him, and the enemy finally succumbed to him.
Guo Xie said to the man: I heard that everyone in Luoyang was trying to mediate, but you didn't listen.
Now I am fortunate to have listened to my Guo Xie's advice, but how can I, Guo Xie, compete for the power of local celebrities as a foreigner!
So he returned home at night without letting anyone else know about it. He said: "It won't count this time. It will be counted when I leave and let the wealthy people from Luoyang come to mediate again."
Guo Xie was short in stature, humble and frugal. He never had a chariot accompanying him when he went out, and he did not dare to ride into the official court of the county.
When you arrive in a neighboring county, if you are asked to find something to do, if you can shirk it, you can shirk it; if you can't shirk it, you must satisfy everyone before you dare to eat and drink from others.
Everyone took this matter seriously and scrambled to use those people.
Young people from towns and wealthy people from neighboring counties came to visit Guo Xie in the middle of the night. More than ten carriages often stopped in front of his door. Most of them came to ask for Guo Xie's adoption.
When it was time to move the wealthy people to Maoling, Guo Xie was poor and his property did not meet the standards for the move. But the officials in charge were too timid to prevent him from moving.
General Wei Qing spoke for him: Guo Xie's family is poor and is not eligible for migration.
The emperor said: Guo Xie is just a commoner, but he can get the general to intercede for him. How can this be considered poverty?
Guo Xie had no choice but to move away. Before his departure, people rushed to see him off, bringing tens of thousands of items to see him off.
The son of Yang Jizhu, a native of Ga County, was appointed as an official in the county. He stopped the people who came to see him off, but the son of Guo Xie's brother actually killed the man named Yang and took his head.
After Guo Xie entered the Pass, the celebrities and wealthy guests in Guanzhong, whether they knew him or not, came to make friends with him.
The local people killed Yang Jizhu again, and Yang Jizhu's family complained and was killed in the palace.
When the emperor heard about this, he sent officials to arrest Guo Xie.
Guo Xie fled upon hearing the news and moved his mother's family to Xia Yang while he went to Linjin.
There was a man named Ji Shaoweng in Linjin who admired his name but had never seen Guo Xie, so he released him privately.
The young man released Guo Xie, and Guo Xie went to Taiyuan. Wherever he went, he often told the host of the incident.
The arrester followed the traces and found the young man, who was so anxious that he committed suicide, thus cutting off all witnesses.
After a long time, Guo Xie was finally arrested and the crimes he committed were comprehensively investigated. However, his murders all occurred before the amnesty and it was difficult to pursue them.
There was a Confucian scholar sitting with the envoy in Zhi County. Most of the people spoke well of Guo Xie, but the Confucian scholar said: Guo Xie specialized in violating public laws with treachery and robbery. How can we say he is a wise man?

summary:
Guo Xie, a native of Zhi County, was the grandson of a good minister. His father was a chivalrous man killed during Emperor Xiaowen's reign. Guo Xie was calm and brave but vicious in his youth, committing murder, robbery, and grave robbing. As he matured, he reflected on his mistakes, practiced self-discipline, and responded to grudges with kindness, though his sinister nature persisted. His sister's son was killed for forcing someone to drink, and Guo Xie, deeming the victim at fault, let the murderer go, earning respect. Another incident involved a man who disrespected Guo Xie; instead of retaliating, Guo Xie secretly exempted him from duty, leading to the man's apology and increased admiration for Guo Xie. In Luoyang, Guo Xie mediated a dispute where local celebrities failed, and he ensured the credit went to them. Despite his humble and frugal lifestyle, Guo Xie's influence grew, and he was eventually forced to move to Maoling due to imperial suspicion. After his move, conflicts arose, leading to murders and his eventual arrest. Although many crimes were pardoned, Guo Xie was executed for treason after a Confucian scholar was assassinated by his followers.

================================================================================

Summary line 2
Span: 102-134 (score=0.5236)

original:
自是之后，侠者极众，而无足数者。
然关中长安樊中子，槐里赵王孙，长陵高公子，西河郭翁中，太原鲁翁孺，临淮皃长卿，东阳陈君孺，虽为侠而恂恂有退让君子之风。
至若北道姚氏，西道诸杜，南道仇景，东道赵佗羽公子，南阳赵调之徒，盗跖而居民间者耳，曷足道哉！
此乃乡者朱家所羞也。萭章字子夏，长安人也。
长安炽盛，街闾各有豪侠，章在城西柳市，号曰 城西萭章子夏 。
为京兆尹门下督，从至殿中，侍中诸侯贵人争欲揖章，莫与京兆尹言者。
章逡循甚惧。
其后京兆不复从也。
与中书令石显相善，亦得显权力，门车常接毂。
至成帝初，石显坐专权擅势免官，徙归故郡。
显资巨万，当去，留床席器物数百万直，欲以与章，章不受。
宾客或问其故，章叹曰： 吾以布衣见哀于石君，石君家破，不能有以安也，而受其财物，此为石氏之祸，萭氏反当以为福邪！
诸公以是服而称之。
河平中，王尊为京兆尹，捕击豪侠，杀章及箭张回、酒市赵君都、贾子光，皆长安名豪，报仇怨养刺客者也。
楼护字君卿，齐人。
父世医也，护少随父为医长安，出入贵戚家。
护诵医经、本草、方术数十万言，长者咸爱重之，共谓曰： 以君卿之材，何不宦学乎？
由是辞其父，学经传，为京兆吏数年，甚得名誉。
是时，王氏方盛，宾客满门，五侯兄弟争名，其客各有所厚，不得左右，唯护尽入其门，咸得其欢心。
结士大夫，无所不倾，其交长者，尤见亲而敬，众以是服。
为人短小精辩，论议常依名节，听之者皆竦。
与谷永俱为五侯上客，长安号曰 谷子云笔札，楼君卿唇舌 ，言其见信用也。
母死，送葬者致车二三千两，闾里歌之曰： 五侯治丧楼君卿。
久之，平阿侯举护方正，为谏大夫，使郡国。
护假贷，多持币帛，过齐，上书求上先人冢，因会宗族故人，各以亲疏与束帛，一日数百金之费。
使还，奏事称意，擢为天水太守。
数岁免，家长安中。
时成都侯商为大司马卫将军，罢朝，欲候护，其主簿谏： 将军至尊，不宜入闾巷。
商不听，遂往至护家。
家狭小，官属立车下，久住移时，天欲雨，主簿谓西曹诸掾曰： 不肯强谏，反雨立闾巷！
商还，或白主簿语，商恨，以他职事去主簿，终身废锢。
后护复以荐为广汉太守。
元始中，王莽为安汉公，专政，莽长子宇与妻兄吕宽谋以血涂莽第门，欲惧莽令归政。

translation:
From then on, there were many knights from various places, but there were none worth mentioning.
But Fan Zhongzi from Chang'an in Guanzhong, Wangsun Fang from Huaili, Gongzi Gao from Changling, Guo Wengzhong from Xihe, Lu Wengru from Taiyuan, Er Changqing from Linhuai, Chen Junru from Shuyang, etc., although they are knights, they all have the courtesy and humility of gentlemen.
As for the Yao family in the North Road, the Du families in the West Road, Qiu Jing in the South Road, Young Master Tuo Yu in Shu Road, Zhao Diao in Nanyang and others, they are all bandits and are mixed among the common people, so why bother!
Even people like the Zhu family would feel humiliated. Wan Zhang, courtesy name Zixia, was from Chang'an.
Chang'an is a very prosperous place, and there are many heroic people in the streets. Wan Zhang lived in Liushi, west of the city, and was known as Wan Zixia in the west of the city.
Later, he became Jing Zhaoyin's secret friend and followed Jing Zhaoyin to the palace. Among the servants, princes and nobles, they were all vying to bow to Wan Zhang, but no one went to talk to Jing Zhaoyin.
Wan Zhang was very embarrassed and frightened.
From then on, Jing Zhaoyin never asked Wan Zhang to accompany him again.
Wan Zhang was very close to Zhongshu Ling Shi Xian, and they also took advantage of Shi Xian's power, so there was always a continuous flow of cars and horses in front of his house.
In the early years of Emperor Cheng's reign, Shi Xian was dismissed from office because of the crime of taking advantage of power and moved back to his hometown.
At that time, Shi Xian's family had a fortune of tens of millions. Before leaving, he left some bed mats and utensils worth several millions and wanted to give them to Wan Zhang, but Wan Zhang did not accept them.
Some guests asked about the reason, and Wan Zhang sighed and said: I am a commoner wearing cloth, and I owe you the pity of Mr. Shi. Now that Mr. Shi has ruined his family and career, I cannot save him, but I still accept his property. Could it be that this misfortune of the Shi family, I, the Wan family, regard it as a blessing?
After hearing this, everyone was convinced and praised his conduct.
During the Heping period, Wang Zun became Jing Zhaoyin and began to capture the heroes. He killed Wan Zhang, Zhang Hui, the archer, Tong Jundu from the wine market, Jia Ziguang and others. They were all famous heroes in Chang'an City, and they were also those who loved private revenge and adopted assassins.
Lou Hu, courtesy name Junqing, was from Qi State.
His father was a doctor handed down from generation to generation. When Lou Hu was a child, he practiced medicine with his father in Chang'an and visited the homes of noble relatives.
Lou Hu recited hundreds of thousands of medical classics, materia medica, and alchemy books. The elders loved and valued him, and they all said to him: With your talent, Lou Junqing, why don't you learn to be an official?
From then on, Lou Hu said goodbye to his father and began to study the classics. He worked as a minor official in the capital for several years and gained a great reputation.
At this time, the Wang family had just become prosperous, and the house was full of guests. The five brothers were competing for fame and fortune, and each of them had his own favorite people to treat the guests. It was difficult for the guests to have both sides. Only Lou Hu was accepted by them all at the same time, and gained the favor of each of them.
When Lou Hu made friends with the scholar-bureaucrats, he revealed everything about himself. When he made friends with the elders, he showed even more kindness and respect. Everyone admired him for this.
Lou Hu is a short man and is eloquent. When he talks, he can often relate honor and integrity, which makes the listeners feel in awe.
He and Gu Yong were both honored guests of the Five Marquises, so there was a rumor in Chang'an City that Gu Ziyun's writings and Lou Junqing's words spoke of their respective talents that were valued by the world.
When Lou Hu's mother died, two or three thousand mourners came, and people in the alleys sang: "Lou Junqing is busy organizing the funeral for the five princes."
After a long time, Ping'ahou recommended Lou Hu as a talented man, appointed as an admonishing official, and sent out as an envoy to the county.
Lou Hu was responsible for supervising the property lent by the government to the poor. He had a lot of coins and silks with him. He passed by Qi State and wrote a letter requesting that the graves of his ancestors be visited. This allowed him to meet his relatives and friends, and he gave some money and silks to each of them according to their closeness. In one day, he distributed gifts worth a hundred gold.
After the envoy returned to the court, Lou Hu reported the situation of the envoy and the emperor was satisfied, so he was promoted to the prefect of Tianshui County.
A few years later, Lou Hu was dismissed from office and lived in Chang'an City.
At that time, the Marquis of Chengdu, Wang Shang, was appointed as the Great Sima Wei General. After going to court once, he wanted to visit Lou Hu. His boss, Bo Guan, persuaded him: General, as a supreme being, it is not appropriate for you to go in and out of lanes.
Wang Shang didn't listen, so he went to Lou Hu's house.
The building guard's residence was very small, and they could only stand under the car. They stopped for a long time. It was going to rain. The chief registrar said to the officials of Xicao: The general did not listen to the advice, and now he has to stand in the alley in the rain!
After Wang Shang returned, he learned these words of the chief registrar and was very disgusted with him. He dismissed him from the post of chief registrar on the grounds of job transfer, and never let him serve as an official again in his life.
Later, Lou Hu was recommended as the prefect of Guanghan County again.
During the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, Wang Mang was appointed Duke of Anhan and specialized in government affairs. Wang Mang's eldest son Guang Guang and his wife's brother Dankuan conspired to smear Wang Cha's house door with blood in an attempt to threaten Wang Mang into handing over the power of government.

summary:
After Guo Xie, many knights emerged but none were notable. Figures like Fan Zhongzi, Wangsun Fang, and others were courteous and humble, while others like the Yao and Du families were bandits. Wan Zhang, a knight from Chang'an, became a secret friend of Jing Zhaoyin but was embarrassed by the attention he received. He later refused gifts from the disgraced Shi Xian, earning praise for his conduct. During the Heping period, Wang Zun captured and killed many heroes, including Wan Zhang. Lou Hu, from Qi State, initially practiced medicine but later studied classics and became a minor official. He gained fame by serving the five Wang brothers simultaneously, known for his eloquence and integrity. After his mother's death, thousands mourned. Lou Hu later served as an envoy, distributing gifts to relatives, and was promoted to prefect of Tianshui. He was dismissed but later reinstated, and during Wang Mang's regency, he captured a fugitive, earning a marquisate. However, he was eventually dismissed again and lived in obscurity, though he maintained his principles by supporting an old friend, Lu Gong, for life.

================================================================================

Summary line 3
Span: 207-246 (score=0.5182)

original:
及王莽败，二人俱客于池阳，竦为贼兵所杀。
更始至长安，大臣荐遵为大司马护军，与归德侯刘飒俱使匈奴。
单于欲胁诎遵，遵陈利害，为言曲直，单于大奇之，遣还。
会更始败，遵留朔方，为贼所败，时醉见杀。
原涉字巨先。
祖父武帝时以豪桀自阳翟徙茂陵。
涉父哀帝时为南阳太守。
天下殷富，大郡二千石列官，赋敛送葬皆千万以上，妻子通共受之，以定产业。
时又少行三年丧者。
及涉父死，让还南阳赙送，行丧冢庐三年，由是显名京师。
礼毕，扶风谒请为议曹，衣冠慕之辐辏。
为大司徒史丹举能治剧，为谷口令，时年二十余。
谷口闻其名，不言而治。
先是，涉季父为茂陵秦氏所杀，涉居谷口半岁所，自劾去官，欲报仇。
谷口豪桀为杀秦氏，亡命岁余，逢赦出。
郡国诸豪及长安、五陵诸为气节者皆归慕之。涉遂倾身与相待，人无贤不肖阗门，在所闾里尽满客。
或讥涉曰： 子本吏二千石之世，结发自修，以行丧推财礼让为名，正复雠取仇，犹不失仁义，何故遂自放纵，为轻侠之徒乎？
涉应曰： 子独不见家人寡妇邪？
始自约敕之时，意乃慕宋伯姬及陈孝妇，不幸一为盗贼所污，遂行淫失，知其非礼，然不能自还。
吾犹此矣！
涉自以为前让南阳赙送，身得其名，而令先人坟墓俭约，非孝也。
乃大治起冢舍，周阁重门。
初，武帝时，京兆尹曹氏葬茂陵，民谓其道为京兆仟，涉慕之，乃买地开道，立表署曰南阳仟，人不肯从，谓之原氏仟。
费用皆仰富人长者，然身衣服车马才具，妻子内困。
专以振施贫穷赴人之急为务。
人尝置酒请涉，涉入里门，客有道涉所知母病避疾在里宅者。涉即往候，叩门。
家哭，涉因入吊，问以丧事。
家无所有，涉曰： 但洁扫除沐浴，待涉。
还至主人，对宾客叹息曰： 人亲卧地不收，涉何心乡此！愿撤去酒食。
宾客争问所当得，涉乃侧席而坐，削牍为疏，具记衣被棺木，下至饭含之物，分付诸客。
诸客奔走市买，至日昳皆会。
涉亲阅视已，谓主人： 愿受赐矣。
既共饮食，涉独不饱，乃载棺物，从宾客往至丧家，为棺敛劳俫毕葬。
其周急待人如此。
后人有毁涉者曰 奸人之雄也 ，丧家子即时刺杀言者。
宾客多犯法，罪过数上闻。
王莽数收系欲杀，辄复赦出之。
涉惧，求为卿府掾史，欲以避客。
文母太后丧时，守复土校尉。
已为中郎，后免官。

translation:
When Wang Mang failed, both of them stayed in Chiyang, and Zhang Song was killed by bandits.
When Emperor Gengshi arrived in Chang'an, the ministers recommended Chen Zun to be the Great Sima Protector of the Army, and he and Liu Sa, the Marquis of Guide, were sent as envoys to the Huns.
The Shanyu of the Xiongnu forced Chen Zun to surrender to the Xiongnu. Chen Zun explained his interests to him and explained the merits. The Shanyu admired him very much.
Let him return to the Han Dynasty. Just when Gengshi was defeated, Chen Zun had to stay in Shuofang. Later, he was defeated by the bandits. Chen Zun was killed by the bandits while he was drunk.
Yuanshe, named Juxian.
His grandfather migrated from Yangdi County to Maoling as a hero during the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
His father served as the prefect of Nanyang County during the reign of Emperor Moai.
At that time, the world was rich, and the governors of major counties who died in office received more than tens of millions of money from others to help with funeral arrangements. If their families received all the money, they could use it to buy property.
At that time, few people could mourn the deceased for three years.
After Yuan She's father died, Yuan She not only returned the funeral money donated by the people of Nanyang County, but also lived in Yazhong Cottage and mourned his father for three years, so he became famous in the capital.
As soon as the funeral ceremony was over, the envoys inviting him to serve as a council member for the county government arrived like a gust of wind, and scholar-bureaucrats who admired him also gathered from all directions.
Because he was recommended by Situ Shidan and said that he had the ability to handle complex affairs, Yuan She became the magistrate of Gu County. He was only in his twenties at that time.
People in Gu County have long heard of Yuan She's reputation, so there is no need for him to issue orders, and the place is already in order.
Earlier, Yuan She's uncle was killed by the Qin family in Maoling. Yuan She stayed in Taniguchi for more than half a year. He was dismissed from office because he tried the case, so he planned to take revenge.
The heroes of Taniguchi killed the Qin family on behalf of Yuan She, and Yuan She fled for more than a year. Only after encountering the amnesty did he reappear.
The heroes of counties and vassal states, as well as the upright righteous men in Chang'an, Wuling and other places all admired him, so Yuan She also treated them wholeheartedly. People with good or bad conduct came to make friends with Yuan She. For a time, the house was full of guests, and even the streets where his home lived were crowded with visitors.
Someone ridiculed Yuan She and said: You are a descendant of the county magistrate. You were able to cultivate yourself when you were young. Later, you became famous for mourning your father for three years and returning your property and being a humble man. Even if you take revenge for revenge, you are still a benevolent and righteous gentleman. Why should you indulge yourself and become such a frivolous and chivalrous person?
Yuan She replied: Have you never seen widows among the people?
When I first restrained myself, I thought of the examples of Song Boji and Chen Xiaofu. Once I encountered misfortune and was raped by thieves, I would become dissolute. Although I knew it was against ethics, I could no longer return to the clean body and white virginity.
That’s how I am!
Yuan She thought that he had gained fame by returning the funeral funds and items sent by the people of Nanyang, but this made his father's grave extremely crude and unfilial.
So he overhauled the tomb. He also built a house next to the tomb and built heavy doors around the attic.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, the Cao family of Jingzhao Yin was buried in Maoling, and the people called his tomb path Jingzhao Qian. Yuan She envied it, so he bought land to open the tomb passage and built a banner, inscribing it as "Nanyang Qian". People refused to follow it, so they called it "Yuanshi Qian".
All these expenses depended on the rich and powerful people to provide for them. However, Yuanshe himself only had the necessary clothing, carriages and horses, and his wife and children at home were still living in poverty.
Yuan She specializes in doing things to relieve the poor and solve people's problems.
Once, someone held a banquet for Yuan She. As soon as Yuan She walked into the inner door, someone among the guests told him that the family whose mother he knew was sick was now living in the inner house due to illness. Yuan She immediately went to visit and knocked on the door.
Hearing the sound of mourning at home, Yuan She went in to express his condolences and asked about the funeral arrangements.
Seeing that there was nothing in his house, he said: Please clean the house, give the deceased a bath, and wait for my return.
Yuan She returned to the host who had arranged the banquet and sighed to the guests: My mother has passed away and is lying on the ground unable to be buried. How can I have the time to enjoy the food and wine?
Please remove the banquet. The guests rushed to ask what they should buy. Yuan She followed the etiquette of mourning the bereaved, sat sideways on the floor, cut the wooden slips and made a shopping list, listing in detail the shrouds, beddings, coffins, and even the burial objects wrapped in the mouth of the deceased, etc., and distributed them to the guests for purchase.
The guests went off to buy things separately, and they didn't all come back to gather again until it was almost west.
After Yuan She inspected it personally, he said to the host: Now you can accept the banquet.
Everyone drank and ate together, but Yuan She was not full, so he loaded the coffin and other items in a car, led the guests to the deceased's home, buried the deceased, and advised the guests to wait until the burial was completed before leaving.
This is how Yuan She rushes into things and treats others with sincerity.
Later, someone slandered Yuan She and said that he was a "hero of traitors." The deceased's son immediately went to assassinate the person who said this.
Many of the guests involved had committed crimes, and the court heard of their crimes many times.
Wang Mang arrested and killed these people several times, but he always pardoned them and released them.
Yuan She was very frightened, so he sought to become a subordinate official in the Qing Mansion, hoping to avoid guests.
At the time of the funeral of Queen Mother Wen's mother, Yuan She temporarily served as the Futu Colonel.
Later he became a lieutenant and was soon dismissed.

summary:
Chen Zun, from Duling County, was known for his indulgence and extravagance, contrasting with his friend Zhang Song's frugality. Despite his reckless behavior, Chen Zun was valued for his talent and became a magistrate. He was later dismissed for misconduct but continued to host lavish parties. During Wang Mang's reign, he served as governor of Henan County but was dismissed again. Chen Zun was known for his eloquence and charm, and his letters were treasured. He died in Shuofang after being captured by bandits. Yuan She, from Maoling, gained fame by returning funeral donations and mourning his father for three years. He became a magistrate but was dismissed after seeking revenge for his uncle's murder. Yuan She was known for his generosity and ability to mobilize people, often helping the poor and organizing funerals. However, he was also involved in violence, killing a man who slandered him. During Wang Mang's reign, Yuan She was appointed as an official but was eventually executed after ordering the assassination of a chief registrar. Since the reigns of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, many heroes emerged in various counties, but their numbers were too many to count.

================================================================================

