Chunk 0: 
original: 
屈原者，名平，楚之同姓也。
为楚怀王左徒。
博闻强识，明於治乱，娴于辞令。
入则与王图议国事，以出号令；出则接遇宾客，应对诸侯。
王甚任之。
上官大夫与之同列，争宠而心害其能。
怀王使屈原造为宪令，屈平属草稿未定。
上官大夫见而欲夺之，屈平不与，因谗之曰： 王使屈平为令，众莫不知，每一令出，平伐其功，以为 非我莫能为 也。
王怒而疏屈平。
屈平疾王听之不聪也，谗谄之蔽明也，邪曲之害公也，方正之不容也，故忧愁幽思而作离骚。
离骚者，犹离忧也。
夫天者，人之始也；父母者，人之本也。
人穷则反本，故劳苦倦极，未尝不呼天也；疾痛惨怛，未尝不呼父母也。
屈平正道直行，竭忠尽智以事其君，谗人间之，可谓穷矣。
信而见疑，忠而被谤，能无怨乎？
屈平之作离骚，盖自怨生也。
国风好色而不淫，小雅怨诽而不乱。若离骚者，可谓兼之矣。
上称帝喾，下道齐桓，中述汤武，以刺世事。
明道德之广崇，治乱之条贯，靡不毕见。
其文约，其辞微，其志絜，其行廉，其称文小而其指极大，举类迩而见义远。
其志絜，故其称物芳。
其行廉，故死而不容。
自疏濯淖汙泥之中，蝉蜕於浊秽，以浮游尘埃之外，不获世之滋垢，皭然泥而不滓者也。
推此志也，虽与日月争光可也。
translation: 
Qu Yuan, named Ping, has the same surname as the Chu king's family.
Served as the left disciple of King Huai of Chu.
Qu Yuan was well-informed, had a strong memory, understood the principles of national stability and turmoil, and was good at rhetoric.
When Qu Yuan was at court, he discussed state affairs with King Huai of Chu in order to issue orders; when outside the court, he received guests and dealt with the affairs of the marquis.
King Huai of Chu trusted him very much.
The official Shangguan had the same position as Qu Yuan. In order to gain the favor of King Huai, he was very jealous of Qu Yuan's talents.
Once, King Huai ordered Qu Yuan to formulate a national law. Qu Yuan had just finished writing the draft but had not yet completed the final revision.
When Shangguan saw it, he wanted to take it for himself, but Qu Yuan refused to give it to him. He spoke ill of Qu Yuan to King Huai of Chu: Your Majesty, you asked Qu Yuan to make a decree. No one at the top or bottom did not know about it. Every time a decree was issued, Qu Yuan boasted of his achievements, saying that no one could make it except me.
King Huai was very angry after hearing this, so he alienated Qu Yuan.
Qu Yuan felt extremely sad that King Huai was unable to distinguish right from wrong, that his vision was blinded by flatterers and unable to distinguish truth from falsehood, that evil harmed justice, and that upright people were not tolerated by the court. Therefore, he wrote "Li Sao" with deep sorrow and deep thought.
The so-called "Li Sao" means encountering sorrow.
God is the origin of man; parents are the foundation of man.
When people are in a difficult situation, they have to remember their roots. Therefore, when the fatigue and hardship are extreme, there is no one who does not call God; when the pain is unbearable, there is no one who does not call for the parents.
Qu Yuan insisted on notarization, acted upright, was loyal to the king, and used his talents to the best of his ability. However, he was provoked by villains, and his situation could be said to be extremely embarrassing.
How can one not feel grief and indignation when one is doubted by the king because one is sincere for the country, and one is slandered by villains because one is loyal to the master?
Qu Yuan wrote "Li Sao" precisely to express this feeling of grief and indignation.
Although "The Book of Songs: Guofeng" contains many works describing the love between men and women, it is not chaotic; although "The Book of Songs: Xiaoya" reveals the people's slander and resentment against the government, it does not advocate open rebellion. Qu Yuan's "Li Sao" can be said to have the advantages of both.
In "Li Sao", Qu Yuan traced the deeds of Emperor Ku upwards, praised Qi Huan's great achievements in modern times, and described the virtues of Shang Tang and Zhou Wu in the middle to criticize current affairs.
It explains the breadth and depth of moral content and the inevitable cause and effect of the rise and fall of ordering chaos. These are all explained in great detail.
Its language is simple and concise, but its content has profound meanings, its emotions are noble, and its conduct is honest. Although its sentences are about small things, its meaning is extremely grand and profound. Although the examples it cites are common examples, the meaning they entrust is extremely far-reaching.
His emotions are noble, so he likes to use vanilla as a metaphor.
His character was upright, so he would not relax his demands on himself even until his death.
Being able to be washed clean in the muddy water is like a cicada being able to be freed from the turbidity and filth. It floats outside the dust and is not stained by the turbidity of the world. It is pure and noble, emerging from the mud without being stained.
Inferring his noble emotions, it is appropriate to compete with the sun and the moon.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
屈平既绌，其後秦欲伐齐，齐与楚从亲，惠王患之，乃令张仪详去秦，厚币委质事楚，曰： 秦甚憎齐，齐与楚从亲，楚诚能绝齐，秦原献商、於之地六百里。
楚怀王贪而信张仪，遂绝齐，使使如秦受地。
张仪诈之曰： 仪与王约六里，不闻六百里。
楚使怒去，归告怀王。
怀王怒，大兴师伐秦。
秦发兵击之，大破楚师於丹、淅，斩首八万，虏楚将屈匄，遂取楚之汉中地。
怀王乃悉发国中兵以深入击秦，战於蓝田。
魏闻之，袭楚至邓。
楚兵惧，自秦归。
而齐竟怒不救楚，楚大困。
明年，秦割汉中地与楚以和。楚王曰： 不原得地，原得张仪而甘心焉。
张仪闻，乃曰： 以一仪而当汉中地，臣请往如楚。
如楚，又因厚币用事者臣靳尚，而设诡辩於怀王之宠姬郑袖。怀王竟听郑袖，复释去张仪。
是时屈平既疏，不复在位，使於齐，顾反，谏怀王曰： 何不杀张仪？
怀王悔，追张仪不及。
其後诸侯共击楚，大破之，杀其将唐眛。
时秦昭王与楚婚，欲与怀王会。怀王欲行，屈平曰： 秦虎狼之国，不可信，不如毋行。
怀王稚子子兰劝王行： 柰何绝秦欢！
怀王卒行。
入武关，秦伏兵绝其後，因留怀王，以求割地。
怀王怒，不听。
亡走赵，赵不内。
复之秦，竟死於秦而归葬。
长子顷襄王立，以其弟子兰为令尹。
楚人既咎子兰以劝怀王入秦而不反也。
屈平既嫉之，虽放流，睠顾楚国，系心怀王，不忘欲反，冀幸君之一悟，俗之一改也。
其存君兴国而欲反覆之，一篇之中三致志焉。
然终无可柰何，故不可以反，卒以此见怀王之终不悟也。
人君无愚智贤不肖，莫不欲求忠以自为，举贤以自佐，然亡国破家相随属，而圣君治国累世而不见者，其所谓忠者不忠，而所谓贤者不贤也。
怀王以不知忠臣之分，故内惑於郑袖，外欺於张仪，疏屈平而信上官大夫、令尹子兰。
兵挫地削，亡其六郡，身客死於秦，为天下笑。
translation: 
Qu Yuan had been demoted. After that, Qin planned to attack Qi, and Qi and Chu joined forces to have a blind date. King Qin Hui was worried about this, so he sent Zhang Yi to pretend to leave Qin and bring rich gifts to serve Chu. He said: Qin hates Qi very much.
King Huai of Chu greedily listened to Zhang Yi's words, broke off diplomatic relations with Qi, and sent envoys to Qin to accept the land.
Zhang Yi deceived the envoy of the Chu State and said: I, Zhang Yi, agreed with King Huai of Chu to be six miles, but I have never heard of six hundred miles.
The Chu envoy left Qin angrily and returned to report to King Huai of Chu.
King Huai of Chu was angry and raised troops to attack Qin.
The Qin State sent troops to attack the Chu army, and defeated the Chu army in the Danshui and Xishui areas. It killed 80,000 Chu soldiers, captured the Chu general Qu, and took advantage of the situation to seize the Hanzhong area of ​​the Chu state.
King Huai of Chu dispatched all the troops from across the country to attack Qin and fought in Lantian.
When Wei heard the news, he sent troops to attack Chu and penetrated as far as Deng Yi.
The Chu army was frightened, so they withdrew from Qin and returned home.
However, the state of Qi finally refused to rescue the state of Chu because of anger, and the state of Chu was in great distress.
The next year, Qin proposed to cede the land in Hanzhong to make peace with Chu, but King Huai of Chu said: I don't want to get the land, I just want Zhang Yi and I will be content.
When Zhang Yi heard this, he said: "I, Zhang Yi, can come to Hanzhong and ask the king to allow me to go to Chu."
After Zhang Yi arrived in Chu State, he gave generous gifts to Jin Shang, the powerful minister of Chu State, and used sweet words to deceive King Huai's concubine Zheng Xiu. King Huai actually listened to Zheng Xiu's words and let Zhang Yi run away again.
At this time, Qu Yuan had been alienated and no longer held important official positions. He had just been sent as an envoy to Qi State. After returning, he admonished King Huai and said: Your Majesty, why don't you kill Zhang Yi?
King Huai felt very regretful and sent people to chase him, but it was too late.
After that, all the vassal states jointly attacked the Chu State, defeated the Chu army, and killed the Chu general Tang Wei.
At that time, King Zhao of Qin was married to Chu and wanted to meet King Huai of Chu. King Huai of Chu wanted to go. Qu Yuan advised him: Qin is a greedy and violent country like tigers and wolves. It cannot be trusted, so it is better not to go.
But King Huai's youngest son Zilan persuaded King Huai to go, saying: "Why do you want to cut off King Qin's good intentions?"
King Huai finally went.
But as soon as he entered Wuguan, the Qin Dynasty's ambush cut off his return and detained King Huai in order to make him agree to cede the land.
King Huai was furious and refused to agree.
He fled to the State of Zhao, but the State of Zhao refused to accept him.
Then he came to the State of Qin and finally died in the State of Qin. His body was transported back to the State of Chu for burial.
King Huai's eldest son, King Qingxiang, succeeded to the throne and appointed his younger brother Zilan as Ling Yin.
Zilan persuaded King Huai to enter Qin and eventually died in Qin. People in Chu blamed Zilan for this.
Qu Yuan also hated Zilan very much for what he did. Although he was exiled, he was still attached to the Kingdom of Chu, missed King Huai, and always thought about returning to the court. He always hoped that the king would suddenly wake up and change his bad customs.
He always remembered the king, revived the country, and reversed the situation, so he expressed this feeling many times in a work.
However, there was nothing he could do, so it was impossible to return to the court. This also shows that King Huai did not wake up in the end.
As a king, no matter he is smart or stupid, talented or not, he hopes to find loyal ministers and wise men to assist him in governing the country. However, the destruction of the country and the destruction of the family continue to happen, but the sage king and the peaceful country have not been seen for many generations. The fundamental reason is that the so-called loyal ministers are not loyal, and the so-called wise men are not wise.
Because King Huai did not know the duties of a loyal minister, he was deceived by Zheng Xiu internally and deceived by Zhang Yi externally. He alienated Qu Yuan and trusted Shangguan officials and Ling Yin Zilan.
As a result, the army was defeated miserably, the country was invaded, and the territory of six counties was lost. He also lived in a foreign country, died in Qin, and was ridiculed by the people of the world.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
此不知人之祸也。
易曰： 井泄不食，为我心恻，可以汲。
王明，并受其福。
王之不明，岂足福哉！
令尹子兰闻之大怒，卒使上官大夫短屈原於顷襄王，顷襄王怒而迁之。
屈原至於江滨，被发行吟泽畔。
颜色憔悴，形容枯槁。
渔父见而问之曰： 子非三闾大夫欤？
何故而至此？
屈原曰： 举世混浊而我独清，众人皆醉而我独醒，是以见放。
渔父曰： 夫圣人者，不凝滞於物而能与世推移。举世混浊，何不随其流而扬其波？
众人皆醉，何不餔其糟而歠其醨？
何故怀瑾握瑜而自令见放为？
屈原曰： 吾闻之，新沐者必弹冠，新浴者必振衣，人又谁能以身之察察，受物之汶汶者乎！
宁赴常流而葬乎江鱼腹中耳，又安能以皓皓之白而蒙世俗之温蠖乎！
乃作怀沙之赋。
其辞曰：陶陶孟夏兮，草木莽莽。
伤怀永哀兮，汩徂南土。
眴兮窈窈，孔静幽墨。
冤结纡轸兮，离愍之长鞠；抚情效志兮，俯诎以自抑。
刓方以为圜兮，常度未替；易初本由兮，君子所鄙。
章画职墨兮，前度未改；内直质重兮，大人所盛。
巧匠不斫兮，孰察其揆正？
玄文幽处兮，矇谓之不章；离娄微睇兮，瞽以为无明。
变白而为黑兮，倒上以为下。
凤皇在笯兮，鸡雉翔舞。
同糅玉石兮，一而相量。
夫党人之鄙妒兮，羌不知吾所臧。
任重载盛兮，陷滞而不济；怀瑾握瑜兮，穷不得余所示。
邑犬群吠兮，吠所怪也；诽骏疑桀兮，固庸态也。
translation: 
This is a disaster caused by ignorant people.
"Book of Changes" says: It is sad that the well has been dredged but no one comes to drink water.
If the king is wise, everyone can be happy.
And King Huai is so ignorant, how can he deserve happiness?
Ling Yin Zilan was furious when he heard the above situation, and finally asked Shangguan officials to speak ill of Qu Yuan to King Qingxiang. King Qingxiang banished Qu Yuan when he was angry.
Qu Yuan came to the riverside, his hair disheveled and walking on the grass in the wilderness, groaning in sorrow and indignation.
His face was haggard and his body was thin.
When a fisherman saw him, he asked: "Aren't you Dr. Sanlu?"
Why come here?
Qu Yuan said: The whole society is dirty but I am the only one who is clean. Everyone is drunk but I am the only one who is sober, so I was exiled.
The fisherman said: For a person who has reached the highest level of moral cultivation, his views on things are not static, but can change with the secular trend. People in the whole society are dirty, why don't you just follow the trend?
Everyone is drunk, why don't you eat some leftovers among them?
Why do you want to maintain your beautiful character and end up being exiled?
Qu Yuan replied: I have heard that people who have just washed their heads must flick off the dust on their hats, and people who have just washed their bodies must shake off the dust on their clothes. Who among the people is willing to let his innocent body be tainted by the dirt of the outside world?
I would rather jump into the long river and be buried in the belly of the fish than let my innocent character be polluted by the world!
Therefore, Qu Yuan wrote the work "Huaisha", in which he wrote:
In the early summer when the sun is strong, the grass and trees are growing lushly.
Sadness always fills my chest, and I hurried to the south.
There was a vast expanse in front of me, so silent that there was no sound.
My mood is gloomy and sad. This sad day is too long. He can reflect with his heart without making any mistakes, and he can restrain himself without fear when he is wronged.
I want to cut square wood into round wood, but the normal method cannot be changed. Forsaking the right path and taking a crooked path will be despised by a gentleman.
Clarify the norms, keep the laws in mind, and never go back on the original intention of the past. He has a loyal character and an upright heart, and is praised by gentlemen.
If a skilled craftsman does not wield an ax to chop, who can tell whether it is up to standard?
If the black pattern is placed in a dark place, a blind person will say that the pattern is not bright; Li Lou can see it very clearly with a glance, but the blind person will say that he is blind.
Things are so confusing, up and down.
The phoenix was put in a cage, but the chickens and pheasants were flying around there.
Beautiful jade and rough stone are mixed together, and some people actually think that the two are not much different.
Those gangsters are despicable and jealous, and have no understanding of my noble sentiments.
There is a long way to go, the load is too much, and we are stuck and unable to move forward. You are blessed with beautiful jade and are of high moral character. Who can you offer it to when you are in a difficult situation?
The dogs in the city were barking randomly, thinking they were seeing something strange and barking. Slandering a handsome man and doubting a hero is the ugly behavior of a villain.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
文质疏内兮，众不知吾之异采；材朴委积兮，莫知余之所有。
重仁袭义兮，谨厚以为丰；重华不可牾兮，孰知余之从容！
古固有不并兮，岂知其故也？
汤禹久远兮，邈不可慕也。
惩违改忿兮，抑心而自彊；离湣而不迁兮，原志之有象。
进路北次兮，日昧昧其将暮；含忧虞哀兮，限之以大故。
乱曰：浩浩沅湘兮，分流汩兮。
脩路幽拂兮，道远忽兮。
曾唫恆悲兮，永叹慨兮。
世既莫吾知兮，人心不可谓兮。
怀情抱质兮，独无匹兮。
伯乐既殁兮，骥将焉程兮？
人生禀命兮，各有所错兮。
定心广志，馀何畏惧兮？
曾伤爰哀，永叹喟兮。
世溷不吾知，心不可谓兮。
知死不可让兮，原勿爱兮。明以告君子兮，吾将以为类兮。
於是怀石遂自汨罗以死。
屈原既死之後，楚有宋玉、唐勒、景差之徒者，皆好辞而以赋见称；然皆祖屈原之从容辞令，终莫敢直谏。
其後楚日以削，数十年竟为秦所灭。
自屈原沈汨罗後百有馀年，汉有贾生，为长沙王太傅，过湘水，投书以吊屈原。
贾生名谊，雒阳人也。
年十八，以能诵诗属书闻於郡中。
吴廷尉为河南守，闻其秀才，召置门下，甚幸爱。
孝文皇帝初立，闻河南守吴公治平为天下第一，故与李斯同邑而常学事焉，乃徵为廷尉。
廷尉乃言贾生年少，颇通诸子百家之书。
文帝召以为博士。
是时贾生年二十馀，最为少。
translation: 
I am rough on the outside but simple on the inside, but no one knows my brilliance. The uncarved material was thrown away, and no one knew the wisdom and virtue I possessed.
I pay attention to the cultivation of benevolence and righteousness, and strengthen it with respect and loyalty. Yu Shun will never be seen again, and who knows that I can calmly persist in my ambition.
It is rare for ancient sages to be born in the same world. Who can understand the reason?
Shang Tang and Xia Yu are so far away from us now. It is so vast and boundless that it is difficult to catch up.
Suppress your grief and anger, suppress your heart and make yourself stronger. I will not change my original intention despite suffering. I just hope that my ambition will become an example for future generations to follow.
I followed the road north again, facing the fading sunlight. Containing melancholy and forcing a happy face, death is not far ahead.
Epilogue: The mighty Yuanjiang and Xiangjiang rivers are constantly flowing and surging with waves.
The road is long and dark, and the future is so unclear.
I keep singing with long-lasting sadness, sighing with emotion to end this life.
No one in the world understands me. Who can listen to my heart?
The sentiment is noble, the quality is beautiful, and the fragrance is pure and unparalleled in the world.
Bole has died a long time ago. Who can identify the Chollima horse as Junliang?
Life is a destiny, and everyone has different arrangements.
With a firm heart and a broad mind, there is nothing else to be afraid of!
Heavy sadness and long sigh, sighing and mourning forever.
The world is turbid and there are few close friends. People's hearts are unpredictable and difficult to guess.
You must die in this world, so don't cherish your own life too much. Tell this clearly to the world, gentlemen, that I will always be a role model for others.
So Qu Yuan threw himself into the Miluo River with stones in his arms and committed suicide.
After Qu Yuan's death, there were Song Yu, Tang Le, Jing Cha and others in the Chu State. They all loved literature and were famous for their good poetry and poetry. But they all only learned the euphemistic and implicit side of Qu Yuan's speech, and in the end no one dared to express his advice as bluntly as Qu Yuan did.
After that, the Chu State became weaker and weaker day by day, and was finally eliminated by the Qin State decades later.
More than a hundred years after Qu Yuan sank into the river and died, there was a man named Jia Sheng in the Han Dynasty who passed by the Xiang River when he was serving as the Prince of Changsha. He wrote a poem and threw it into the river to pay homage to Qu Yuan.
Jia Sheng's name is Jia Yi, and he is from Luoyang.
At the age of eighteen, he became famous locally for reciting poetry and writing articles.
When Wu Tingwei was serving as the governor of Henan County, he heard that Jia Yicai had excellent academic performance, so he summoned him to serve in the Yamen and regarded him very highly.
When Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty first came to the throne, he heard that Wu Gong, the governor of Henan Province, had outstanding political achievements and was ranked first in the country. He was from the same hometown as Li Si and had learned from Li Si, so he recruited him as a court captain.
Wu Tingwei recommended that Jia Yi was young and talented, and could be proficient in the knowledge of hundreds of schools of thought.
In this way, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty recruited Jia Yi to serve as a doctor.
At that time, Jia Yi was more than 20 years old and the youngest among the Ph.D.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
每诏令议下，诸老先生不能言，贾生尽为之对，人人各如其意所欲出。
诸生於是乃以为能，不及也。
孝文帝说之，超迁，一岁中至太中大夫。
贾生以为汉兴至孝文二十馀年，天下和洽，而固当改正朔，易服色，法制度，定官名，兴礼乐，乃悉草具其事仪法，色尚黄，数用五，为官名，悉更秦之法。
孝文帝初即位，谦让未遑也。
诸律令所更定，及列侯悉就国，其说皆自贾生发之。
於是天子议以为贾生任公卿之位。
绛、灌、东阳侯、冯敬之属尽害之，乃短贾生曰： 雒阳之人，年少初学，专欲擅权，纷乱诸事。
於是天子後亦疏之，不用其议，乃以贾生为长沙王太傅。
贾生既辞往行，闻长沙卑湿，自以寿不得长，又以適去，意不自得。
及渡湘水，为赋以吊屈原。其辞曰：共承嘉惠兮，俟罪长沙。
侧闻屈原兮，自沈汨罗。
造讬湘流兮，敬吊先生。
遭世罔极兮，乃陨厥身。
呜呼哀哉，逢时不祥！
鸾凤伏窜兮，鸱枭翱翔。
阘茸尊显兮，谗谀得志；贤圣逆曳兮，方正倒植。
世谓伯夷贪兮，谓盗跖廉；莫邪为顿兮，铅刀为銛。
于嗟嚜嚜兮，生之无故！
斡弃周鼎兮宝康瓠，腾驾罢牛兮骖蹇驴，骥垂两耳兮服盐车。
章甫荐屦兮，渐不可久；嗟苦先生兮，独离此咎！
讯曰：已矣，国其莫我知，独堙郁兮其谁语？
凤漂漂其高遰兮，夫固自缩而远去。
袭九渊之神龙兮，沕深潜以自珍。
translation: 
Every time Emperor Wen ordered the doctors to discuss some issues, the older gentlemen had nothing to say, but Jia Yi could answer them one by one, and everyone felt that they had said what they wanted to say.
Doctors all believed that Jia Sheng's talent was outstanding and unparalleled.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty also liked him very much and promoted him to Taizhong doctor within a year.
Jia Yi believed that it had been more than twenty years since the founding of the Western Han Dynasty and Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty had reached peace in the world. It was the time to correct the calendar, change the colors of clothes, establish systems, determine official names, and revitalize rituals and music. So he drafted various rituals, advocating yellow, following the theory of the five elements, and creating official names, which completely changed the old laws of the Qin Dynasty.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty had just ascended the throne and was too modest to make concessions in time.
However, subsequent changes in various laws and regulations, as well as the fact that princes must go to the fiefdom to take office, were all Jia Yi's ideas.
So Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty discussed with his ministers and wanted to promote Jia Yi to the position of public minister.
However, Jianghou Zhou Bo, Guan Ying, Dongyang Hou, Feng Jing and others were jealous of him, so they slandered Jia Yi and said: This Luoyang man is young and has little knowledge. He only wants to monopolize power and make political affairs a mess.
After that, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty alienated Jia Yi, no longer adopted his opinions, and appointed him as the Grand Tutor of Changsha.
After Jia Yi said goodbye to Emperor Wen, he went to Changsha to take up his post. He heard that Changsha has a low-lying terrain and humid climate. He thought that his life would not be very long, and because he was demoted to this place, he felt very unhappy.
When he was crossing the Xiang River, he wrote a poem to commemorate Qu Yuan. The poem said: I respectfully obeyed the emperor's edict and came to Changsha to take up a post despite being guilty.
I have heard that Qu Yuan died after sinking into the Miluo River.
Today I came to the bank of the Xiangjiang River and asked the water to pay homage to Mr.
Encountering a chaotic society forces you to commit suicide and lose your life. Oh, how sad!
Just in time for those unfortunate times.
Luan and phoenix lurk and hide, but owl and owl fly freely.
Untalented people are noble and distinguished, while flatterers are ambitious and ambitious; sages and sages cannot follow suit, and upright people are relegated to inferior positions.
The world actually calls Boyi greedy, but the thieves are honest; Moye's sword is too blunt, but the lead knife is sharp.
Alas! Sir, you are so unfortunate that you have suffered this misfortune for no reason!
He abandoned the priceless tripod passed down from the Zhou Dynasty and regarded the broken gourd as a rare item. They drove tired old oxen and lame donkeys, but let the horses pull the salt carts with their ears drooped.
How can we live like this for a long time with a good hat used as an insole? Oops, it’s such a shame, Mr. Qu, that you are the only one to suffer this unexpected disaster! Epilogue: Forget it!
Since the Chinese people don’t understand me, who can I talk to about my depression and unhappiness?
The phoenix flies away and flies away, as it should have retired.
Follow the example of the divine dragon and hide in the depths of the abyss, hiding deep to avoid disaster and cherish yourself.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
弥融爚以隐处兮，夫岂从螘与蛭螾？
所贵圣人之神德兮，远浊世而自藏。
使骐骥可得系羁兮，岂云异夫犬羊！
般纷纷其离此尤兮，亦夫子之辜也！
瞝九州而相君兮，何必怀此都也？
凤皇翔于千仞之上兮，览德军而下之；见细德之险兮，摇增翮逝而去之。
彼寻常之汙渎兮，岂能容吞舟之鱼！
横江湖之鳣鲟兮，固将制於蚁蝼。
贾生为长沙王太傅三年，有鸮飞入贾生舍，止于坐隅。
楚人命鸮曰 服 。
贾生既以適居长沙，长沙卑湿，自以为寿不得长，伤悼之，乃为赋以自广。
其辞曰：
单阏之岁兮，四月孟夏，庚子日施兮，服集予舍，止于坐隅，貌甚间暇。异物来集兮，私怪其故，发书占之兮，筴言其度。
曰 野鸟入处兮，主人将去 。
请问于服兮： 予去何之？
吉乎告我，凶言其菑。
淹数之度兮，语予其期。
服乃叹息，举首奋翼，口不能言，请对以意。
万物变化兮，固无休息。
斡流而迁兮，或推而还。
形气转续兮，变化而嬗。
沕穆无穷兮，胡可胜言！
祸兮福所倚，福兮祸所伏；忧喜聚门兮，吉凶同域。
彼吴彊大兮，夫差以败；越栖会稽兮，句践霸世。
斯游遂成兮，卒被五刑；傅说胥靡兮，乃相武丁。
夫祸之与福兮，何异纠纆。
命不可说兮，孰知其极？
水激则旱兮，矢激则远。
万物回薄兮，振荡相转。
云蒸雨降兮，错缪相纷。
大专槃物兮，坱轧无垠。
天不可与虑兮，道不可与谋。
迟数有命兮，恶识其时？
且夫天地为炉兮，造化为工；阴阳为炭兮，万物为铜。
合散消息兮，安有常则；千变万化兮，未始有极。
translation: 
How can we be neighbors with ants, leeches, and earthworms when we are hiding in a hidden place?
The moral character of a saint is the most valuable. He stays away from the troubled world and hides himself.
If a good horse can be tied, how can it be different from dogs and sheep?
The world is in chaos and this disaster has happened, and the gentleman himself is also to blame.
You can choose your prince when you travel across the nine states, why should you be reluctant to leave your hometown?
The phoenix flies thousands of feet and only comes down to rest when it sees a virtuous king. Once you see signs of danger, fly high and fly away.
How can a small, dirty puddle accommodate a large fish that swallows a boat?
The big fish that dominates the world will eventually be controlled by ants.
In Jia Yi's third year as the Prince of Changsha, an owl flew into his residence and landed next to his seat.
The people of Chu called the owl Fu.
Jia Yi originally came to Changsha because he was demoted, and Changsha has a low-lying terrain and a humid climate, so he thought that his life would not be long, and he was sad and sad, so he wrote a poem to comfort himself.
The poem reads:
In the early summer of April of the Dingmao year, when the sun was setting on Gengzi Day, an owl flew into my house. It stopped next to the seat, looking so relaxed and at ease.
A strange bird came into my house, and I secretly wondered why. Open the hexagram book for divination, and it contains the following words: If a wild bird flies into the house, the owner will leave the house.
Please tell me, bird, where will I go when I leave here?
If it is good luck, please tell me; if it is bad luck, please tell me what kind of disaster it is.
Life and death are determined by delay and speed. Please tell me the time limit carefully.
The bird sighed after hearing this, raised its head and flapped its wings in understanding. If you can't speak with your mouth, please use your thoughts to guide yourself.
All things in heaven and earth are constantly changing, and there is no end to them.
Such as vortex rotation, repeated circulation.
The transformation of the appearance and inner energy continues, evolving like a cicada's transformation.
The truth is so profound that words cannot explain it comprehensively.
Blessings are hidden in disasters, and disasters are also hidden in blessings. Worry and joy come together, good fortune and misfortune are in the same realm.
The state of Wu was so powerful back then, but King Wu Fuchai was defeated because of it. The Yue Kingdom was defeated in Kuaiji, and Gou Jian used this to dominate the world.
Li Si traveled to Qin successfully, but finally suffered five punishments. Fu Yue was originally a prisoner, but later became the Prime Minister of Wu Ding.
What is the difference between misfortunes and blessings and the entanglement of ropes?
Destiny cannot be explained in detail. Who can predict its outcome?
The water turns into a torrent with great force, and the arrow can be shot far if it encounters strong force.
All things are cyclical and turbulent, changing each other in motion.
The clouds rise and the rain falls repeatedly, and the changes are complicated and complicated.
The movement of heaven and earth creates all things, so boundless and vast.
The way of heaven is profound and unpredictable, and it is difficult for mortals to think and plan.
Sooner or later, life and death are determined by fate. Who can know when it will come?
What's more, the heaven and the earth are a giant furnace, and nature is the stoker. The movement of yin and yang is the charcoal of a furnace, and everything in the world is made of copper.
Where can there be traces of routines in gathering and dispersing or birth and death? Intricate and varied, with no end in sight.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
忽然为人兮，何足控抟；化为异物兮，又何足患！
小知自私兮，贱彼贵我；通人大观兮，物无不可。
贪夫徇财兮，烈士徇名；夸者死权兮，品庶冯生。
述迫之徒兮，或趋西东；大人不曲兮，亿变齐同。
拘士系俗兮，羖如囚拘；至人遗物兮，独与道俱。
众人或或兮，好恶积意；真人淡漠兮，独与道息。
释知遗形兮，超然自丧；寥廓忽荒兮，与道翱翔。
乘流则逝兮，得坻则止；纵躯委命兮，不私与己。
其生若浮兮，其死若休；澹乎若深渊之静，氾乎若不系之舟。
不以生故自宝兮，养空而浮；德人无累兮，知命不忧。
细故粦兮，何足以疑！
後岁馀，贾生徵见。
孝文帝方受釐，坐宣室。
上因感鬼神事，而问鬼神之本。
贾生因具道所以然之状。
至夜半，文帝前席。既罢，曰： 吾久不见贾生，自以为过之，今不及也。
居顷之，拜贾生为梁怀王太傅。
梁怀王，文帝之少子，爱，而好书，故令贾生傅之。
文帝复封淮南厉王子四人皆为列侯。
贾生谏，以为患之兴自此起矣。
贾生数上疏，言诸侯或连数郡，非古之制，可稍削之。文帝不听。
居数年，怀王骑，堕马而死，无後。
贾生自伤为傅无状，哭泣岁馀，亦死。
贾生之死时年三十三矣。
translation: 
Adulthood is also an accident, not enough to cherish and cherish eternal life. Even if you die and turn into a foreign body, why worry and fear!
People with little wisdom take care of themselves, despise external things and value their own bodies. How magnanimous it is to understand people's enlightenment, and there will be no misfortunes or blessings in life or death.
A greedy husband sacrifices his life for money, a martyr forgets his life and death for his name. Those who like false fame die for power, while ordinary people are afraid of death and greedy for life.
And those who are tempted by fame and fortune, forced by poverty and low status, travel west and east in order to make a living. People with extremely high moral cultivation will not succumb to material desires and treat millions of things equally.
A foolish man is fettered by worldly burdens and is restrained like a prisoner. A person with supreme virtue can abandon the world and exist only with the Great Way.
Everyone in the world is confused and filled with feelings of love and hatred. People with true virtue are indifferent and live alone and in harmony with the great road.
Abandoning wisdom and forgetting oneself, becoming transcendent and unaware of oneself. In that empty and trance state, soar together with the avenue.
Riding on the flowing water, one can travel freely and stop when one encounters a small island. Entrust your body to fate and do not regard it as a private body.
Living is like living in the world, and dying is like a long rest. Inner peace is like a waveless abyss, and floating is like a boat without a mooring line.
Do not focus on your own life because of living, and cultivate your ethereal nature without being rigid. The most virtuous person has no worldly burdens, and he is happy and knows his fate, so there is no need to worry!
Trivial matters are nothing worth worrying about!
More than a year later, Jia Yi was recalled to the capital to meet the emperor.
At that time, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty was sitting in the propaganda room, receiving blessings from God.
Because Emperor Wen was interested in ghosts and gods, he asked Jia Yi about the origin of ghosts and gods.
Jia Yi took the opportunity to explain in detail the various situations that led to the occurrence of ghosts and gods.
By midnight, Emperor Wen was so absorbed in listening that he unconsciously moved towards Jia Yi in his seat. After listening, Emperor Wen sighed: I haven't seen Jia Yi for a long time. I thought I could surpass him, but now it seems I'm still not as good as him.
Soon after, Emperor Wen appointed Jia Yi as the Taifu of King Lianghuai.
King Lianghuai was the youngest son of Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty. He was favored by Emperor Wen and liked to read, so he asked Jia Yi to be his teacher.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty also granted the title of Liehou to the four sons of King Li of Huainan.
Jia Yi advised him, believing that the rise of national disasters would start from here.
Jia Yi appealed to the emperor many times, saying that some princes had too many fiefdoms, even covering several counties, which was inconsistent with the ancient system, and their power should be gradually weakened, but Emperor Wen of Han refused to listen.
A few years later, King Liang Huai fell off his horse and died due to careless riding, leaving no descendants.
Jia Yi believed that he had failed to fulfill his responsibilities as a tutor. He was very sad and cried for more than a year before he died.
He was only thirty-three years old when he died.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
及孝文崩，孝武皇帝立，举贾生之孙二人至郡守，而贾嘉最好学，世其家，与余通书。
至孝昭时，列为九卿。
太史公曰：余读离骚、天问、招魂、哀郢，悲其志。
適长沙，观屈原所自沈渊，未尝不垂涕，想见其为人。
及见贾生吊之，又怪屈原以彼其材，游诸侯，何国不容，而自令若是。
读服乌赋，同死生，轻去就，又爽然自失矣。
translation: 
Later, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty passed away and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty ascended the throne and promoted Jia Yi's two grandsons to serve as county guards. Among them, Jia Jia was the most eager to learn. He inherited Jia Yi's family business and had exchanges of letters with me.
By the time of Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty, he held the post of Jiuqing.
Tai Shigong said: After reading "Li Sao", "Heavenly Questions", "Calling the Soul" and "Ai Ying", I felt very sorry for Qu Yuan's ambition.
When I came to Changsha and visited the place where Qu Yuan drowned himself in the river, I couldn't help but shed tears and miss him as a person.
After reading Jia Sheng's poem in memory of Qu Yuan, I privately blamed Qu Yuan for his talent. If he went to lobby the princes, which country would not tolerate him? And actually put himself in such a situation!
After reading "Ode to the Birds", I realized that life and death were treated equally, and the ups and downs of one's life experience were not taken seriously. I couldn't help but feel at a loss.


