Summary line 0
Span: 0-52 (score=0.4979)

original:
是时既灭两粤，粤人勇之乃言： 粤人俗鬼，而其祠皆见鬼，数有效。
昔东瓯王敬鬼，寿百六十岁。
后世怠嫚，故衰耗。 ；乃命粤巫立粤祝祠，安台无坛，亦祠天神帝百鬼，而以鸡卜。
上信之，粤祠鸡卜自此始用。
公孙卿曰： 仙人可见，上往常遽，以故不见。
今陛下可为馆如缑氏城，置脯枣，神人宜可致。
且仙人好楼居。
于是上令长安则作飞廉、桂馆，甘泉则作益寿、延寿馆，使卿持节设具而候神人。
乃作通天台，置祠具其下，将招来神仙之属。
于是甘泉更置前殿，始广诸宫室。
天子为塞河，兴通天，若有光云，乃下诏： 甘泉房中生芝九茎，赦天下，毋令复作。 其明年，伐朝鲜。
夏，旱。
公孙卿曰： 黄帝时，封则天旱，干封三年。
上乃下诏： 天旱，意干封乎？
其令天下尊祠灵星焉。
明年，上郊雍五畤，通回中道，遂北出萧关，历独鹿，鸣泽，自西河归，幸河东祠后土。
明年冬，上巡南郡，至江陵而东。
登礼灊之天柱山，号曰南岳。
浮江，自浔阳出枞阳，过彭蠡，礼其名山川。
北至琅邪，并海上。
四月，至奉高修封焉。
初，天子封泰山，泰山东北止古时有明堂处，处险不敞。
上欲治明堂奉高旁，未晓其制度。
济南人公玉带上黄帝时明堂图。
明堂中有一殿，四面无壁，以茅盖。通水，水圜宫垣。为复道，上有楼，从西南入，名曰昆仑，天子从之入，以拜祀上帝焉。
于是上令奉高作明堂汶上，如带图。
及是岁修封，则祠泰一、五帝于明堂上如郊礼。毕，燎堂下。
而上又上泰山，自有秘祠其颠。
而泰山下祠五帝，各如其方，黄帝并赤帝所，有司侍祠焉。
山上举火，下悉应之。
还幸甘泉，郊泰畤。
春幸汾阴，祠后土。
明年，幸泰山，以十一月甲子朔旦冬至日祀上帝于明堂，毋修封。
其赞飨曰： 天增援皇帝泰元神策，周而复始。
皇帝敬拜泰一。
东至海上，考入海及方士求神者，莫验，然益遣，几遇之。
乙酉，柏梁灾。
十二月甲午朔，上亲禅高里，祠后土。
临勃海，将以望祀蓬莱之属，几至殊庭焉。
上还，以柏梁灾故，受计甘泉。
公孙卿曰： 黄帝就青灵台，十二日烧，黄帝乃治明庭。
明庭，甘泉也。
方士多言古帝王有都甘泉者。
其后天子又朝诸侯甘泉，甘泉作诸侯邸。
勇之乃曰： 粤俗有火灾，复起屋，必以大，用胜服之。
于是作建章宫，度为千门万户。
前殿度高未央。
其东则凤阙，高二十余丈。
其西则商中，数十里虎圈。
其北治大池，渐台高二十余丈，名曰泰液，池中有蓬莱、方丈、瀛州、壶梁，象海中神山、龟、鱼之属。
其南有玉堂璧门大鸟之属。
立神明台、井干楼，高五十丈，辇道相属焉。
夏，汉改历，以正月为岁首，而色上黄，官更印章以五字，因为太初元年。

translation:
At this time, both Guangdong and Guangdong had been wiped out. The Guangdong people bravely said that the Cantonese customs worship ghosts and gods, and they often see ghosts when they offer sacrifices, which are often effective.
In the past, King Shuou respected ghosts and gods, and his life span was 160 years old.
His descendants neglected ghosts and gods, so their life span was shortened. So they ordered the Cantonese shamans to build a Zhu Temple in Guangdong, set up a platform without an altar, and also offered sacrifices to gods, gods and ghosts, and used chicken bones to perform divination.
The emperor felt this was credible, and the Cantonese temple used the bones of the zodiac for divination from the time of its creation.
Gongsun Qing said: Immortals can be seen, but the emperor was too eager to go, so he could not see them.
Now your majesty can build a pavilion like the one in Fengshi City and display dried meat and dates. You should be able to invite the gods.
And wise people like to live in attics.
So the emperor ordered the Feilian and Gui Pavilions to be built in Chang'an, the Yishou and Longshou Pavilions to be built in Ganquan Palace, and sent Gongsun Qing to arrange sacrifices with talismans to welcome the gods.
Build a platform to reach the sky and display sacrifices below to attract gods and the like.
So Ganquan Palace built the front hall and began to expand the palace rooms.
In summer, there are mushrooms growing in the rooms of Ganquan Palace. The emperor built the Tongtian Tower to block the gap in the Yellow River. Divine light appeared, so the emperor issued an edict to grant amnesty to the world. A year later, he launched a crusade against North Korea.
In summer, there is a major drought.
Gongsun Qing said: When the Yellow Emperor offered sacrifices to the sky, there was a drought, and the soil was sealed for three years.
The emperor then issued an edict: There is a drought. Do you want the soil to be sealed and dry?
Probably to make the world respectfully worship the spiritual star.
Another year later, the emperor worshiped the five pillars of Yongcheng in the suburbs to open up the road back to the middle, so he left Xiaoguan to the north, passed through Dulu and Mingze, returned from Xihe, and went to Hedong to worship Houtu.
In the winter of the second year, the emperor inspected Nanjun, arrived at Jiangling, and then headed eastward.
Ceremonies were held on the underground Tianzhu Mountain, which is known as Nanyue.
Take a boat down the river, leave Xunyang and Songyang, pass by Pengli, and pay homage to the famous mountains and rivers there.
Go north to Langye and go up the coastal road.
In April, a ceremony to worship heaven was held in Fenggao.
At first, when the emperor was worshiping heaven in Mount Tai, there was an ancient Mingtang at the northeast foot of Mount Tai. The terrain was dangerous and not spacious.
The emperor planned to build a bright hall next to Fenggao, but he didn't know the system for building a bright hall.
The Jinan renmin jade belt presents the Mingtang pattern from the time of the Yellow Emperor.
There is a hall in the Mingtang with no walls around. It is built with thatched grass. The hall is connected to the water flow. The water flow surrounds the palace wall. It has an upper and lower passage with a building above it. It enters from the southwest and is called Kunlun. The emperor enters from here to worship God.
So the emperor ordered a Mingtang to be built on the Fenggaowen River, which was exactly the same as the picture presented by Gong Yudai.
The emperor entered from Kunlun Road and began to worship in the Mingtang with the same etiquette as suburban sacrifices. After the ceremony, firewood was burned in the hall for sacrifice.
The emperor climbed Mount Tai again and offered sacrifices on the top of the mountain.
The Five Emperors were worshiped at the foot of Mount Tai. According to their respective positions, the Yellow Emperor and the Red Emperor were together, and relevant officials were waiting for the sacrifices on one side.
When torches are raised on the mountain, fire is also raised below the mountain.
Returning to Ganquan Palace, we worshiped Taizhi in the suburbs.
Come to Fenyin in spring and go up after offering sacrifices.
Another year later, the emperor went to Mount Tai, because on the first winter solstice of the Jiazi lunar month in November, he would offer sacrifices to heaven in the Mingtang and would not build the earth.
There is a praise saying: God has given the emperor Taiyuan divine strategies, and the cycle begins again and again.
The emperor worshiped Taiyi devoutly.
After being sent to the sea, the people who visited the sea and the alchemists who visited the gods were not confirmed, but they still sent more people in the hope of encountering the gods.
In Yiyou, a fire broke out in Bailiang.
On the first day of the Jiawu lunar month in December, the emperor personally went to Gaoli to offer sacrifices to Houtu.
When I come to Bohai, I will visit Penglai and other places, and I hope to go to Shuting.
After the emperor came back, he accepted the accounting records from the county and state at Ganquan Palace because of the fire in Bailiang.
Gongsun Qing said: After Huangdi built Qingling Tower, it was burned down twelve days later, so Huangdi built Mingting Pavilion.
Mingting is Ganquan Palace.
Most alchemists say that ancient emperors built their capitals in Ganquan.
From then on, the emperor received court visits from the princes in Ganquan, and Ganquan served as the official residence of the princes.
Yongzhi then said: "The custom in Guangdong is to rebuild a house when there is a fire. The house built must be bigger than the original one. This is to use large scale to control the fire."
So Jianzhang Palace was built, and thousands of households were planned to be built.
The height of the front hall is expected to be higher than that of Weiyang Palace.
It is bounded by a phoenix tower and is more than twenty feet high.
To the west is Shangzhong, where dozens of miles of tiger enclosures have been built.
There is a large pool built in the north with a gradual platform more than 20 feet high, named Taiye. There are Penglai, Fangzhang, Yingzhou and Huliang built in the pool, like sacred mountains, turtles and fish in the sea.
In the south, there are buildings such as Yutang, Bimen and Big Bird.
The Shenming Terrace and Jinggan Tower were built, fifty feet high, and the chariot roads were connected to each other.
In the summer, the Han Dynasty revised the calendar and used the first month as the beginning of the year. The color was yellow, and the seal engraved with the official name was changed to five characters, stipulating that the current year was the first year of Taichu.

summary:
The evolution of religious and sacrificial practices during the Han Dynasty, focusing on the reigns of Emperors Wu, Zhao, Xuan, Yuan, Cheng, Ai, and Ping, as well as the usurper Wang Mang. The belief in ghosts and gods in Guangdong, where King Shuou’s reverence for them allegedly extended his life to 160 years, while neglect shortened his descendants’ lives. This led to the construction of temples and divination using chicken bones. Emperor Wu, influenced by alchemists like Gongsun Qing, built pavilions and towers in Chang’an and Ganquan Palace to invite immortals, including the Feilian, Gui, Yishou, and Longshou Pavilions, and the Tongtian Tower. He conducted sacrifices, such as those to Taiyi and Houtu, and expanded palace rooms. After a drought, Gongsun Qing cited the Yellow Emperor’s precedent, leading to a decree for worldwide worship of the spiritual star. Emperor Wu performed numerous rituals, including suburban sacrifices at Yongcheng, worship at Mount Tai, and construction of a Mingtang based on a Yellow Emperor-era design. He also built Jianzhang Palace, Taiye Pool with artificial islands, and the Shenming Terrace, all to attract gods. The calendar was revised, and the year was renamed Taichu. Alchemists continued to advise, leading to the construction of five cities and twelve towers. Emperor Wu made five pilgrimages to Mount Tai for sealing ceremonies, and sacrifices were made to various mountains and rivers.

================================================================================

Summary line 1
Span: 78-123 (score=0.5352)

original:
天子犹羁縻不绝，几遇其真。
诸所兴，如薄忌泰一及三一、冥羊、马行、赤星，五。
宽舒之祠官以岁时致礼。
凡六祠，皆大祝领之。
至如八神，诸明年、凡山它名祠，行过则祠，去则已。
方士所兴祠，各自主，其人终则已，祠官不主。
它祠皆如故。
甘泉泰一、汾阴后土，三年亲郊祠，而泰山五年一修封。
武帝凡五修封。
昭帝即位，富于春秋，未尝亲巡祭云。
宣帝即位，由武帝正统兴，故立三年，尊孝武庙为世宗，行所巡狩郡国皆立庙。
告祠世宗庙日，有白鹤集后庭。
以立世宗庙告祠孝昭寝，有雁五色集殿前。
西河筑世宗庙，神光兴于殿旁，有鸟如白鹤，前赤后青。
神光又兴于房中，如烛状。
广川国世宗庙殿上有钟音，门户大开，夜有光，殿上尽明。
上乃下诏赦天下。
时，大将军霍光辅政，上共己正南面，非宗庙之祀不出。
十二年，乃下诏曰： 盖闻天子尊事天地，修祀山川，古今通礼也。
间者，上帝之祠阙而不亲十有余年，朕甚惧焉。
朕亲饬躬齐戒，亲泰祀，为百姓蒙嘉气、获丰年焉。
明年正月，上始幸甘泉，郊见泰畤，数有美祥。
修武帝故事，盛车服，敬齐祠之礼，颇作诗歌。
其三月，幸河东，祠后土，有神爵集，改元为神爵。
制诏太常： 夫江海，百川之大者也，今阙焉无祠。
其令祠官以礼为岁事，以四时祠江海雒水，祈为天下丰年焉。
自是五岳、四渎皆有常礼。
东岳泰山于博，中岳泰室于嵩高，南岳灊山于用腄，西岳华山于华阴，北岳常山于上曲阳，河于临晋，江于江都，淮于平氏，济于临邑界中，皆使者持节侍祠。
唯泰山与河岁五祠，江水四，余皆一祷而三祠云。
时，南郡获白虎，献其皮、牙、爪，上为立祠。
又以方士言，为随侯、剑宝、玉宝璧、周康宝鼎立四祠于未央宫中。
又祠太室山于即墨，三户山于下密，祠天封苑火井于鸿门。
又立岁星、辰星、太白、荧惑、南斗祠于长安城旁。
又祠参山八神于曲城，蓬山石杜、石鼓于临朐，之罘山于腄，成山于不夜，莱山于黄。
成山祠日，莱山祠月。
又祠四时于琅邪，蚩尤于寿良。
京师近县，鄠则有劳谷、五床山、日、月、五帝、仙人、玉女祠；云阳有径路神祠，祭休屠王也。
又立五龙山仙人祠及黄帝、天神帝、原水凡四祠于肤施。
或言益州有金马、碧鸡之神，可醮祭而致，于是谴谏大夫王褒使持节而求之。
大夫刘更生献淮南枕中洪宝、苑秘之方，令尚方铸作。
事不验，更生坐论。
京兆尹张敞上疏谏门： 愿明主时忘车马之好，斥远方士之虚语，游心帝王之术，太平庶几可兴也。
后尚方待诏皆罢。
是时，美阳得鼎，献之。
下有司议，多以为宜荐见宗庙，如元鼎时故事。
张敞好古文字，桉鼎铭勒而上议曰： 臣闻周祖始乎后稷，后稷封于斄，公刘发迹于豳，大王建国于支阝、梁，文、武兴于丰、镐。

translation:
The emperor still lingers here, hoping to meet a true man of God.
Various newly built sacrificial places are like Boji's Taiyi and Sanyi, Ming Yang, Ma Xing and Chi Xing, a total of five places.
Kuanshu's ancestral officials perform sacrifices according to the four seasons of the year.
There are six ancestral halls in total, all of which are managed by Da Zhu.
As for other famous shrines such as the Eight Gods, Gemennian, Fanshan, etc., worship is performed when passing by, and it stops when you leave.
The ancestral halls built by the alchemists are in charge of themselves. When a person dies, sacrifices will stop, and the ancestral officials will not care.
All other temples are the same as before.
The emperor personally offered sacrifices to Taiyi in Ganquan Palace and Houtu in Fenyin once every three years, while Mount Tai was repaired and sealed every five years.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, the seal was repaired five times.
Emperor Zhao was on the throne, but he was still young and had never personally visited the temple to offer sacrifices.
Emperor Xuan was the emperor, and because he was succeeded by Emperor Wu's orthodoxy, three years after he ascended the throne, he honored Xiaowu Temple as Shizong, and built Shizong temples in all the counties he visited.
On the day of the memorial ceremony at Sejong Temple, white cranes gathered in the back courtyard.
When the ancestral temple was built and the tomb of Xiaozhao was dedicated, there were five-colored geese gathering in front of the temple.
When Sejong Temple was being built in Xihe, a divine light appeared beside the temple, and there was a bird like a white crane, with red in front and cyan behind.
The divine light appeared in the room again, like a candlelight.
There are bells ringing in the Sejong Temple in Guangcheon Kingdom, the door is wide open, there is light at night, and the whole temple is bright and bright.
The emperor went down to Shao to grant amnesty to the whole world.
At that time, the general Huo Guang was assisting the government, and the emperor was sitting respectfully on the throne. He could not go out to worship except in the ancestral temple.
In the twelfth year, he issued an edict saying: I have heard that the emperor serves heaven and earth devoutly and sacrifices to mountains and rivers, which is a common ritual in ancient and modern times.
In the past, I had not personally offered sacrifices to the temple of God for more than ten years, and I was very scared.
I decided to take the lead in fasting and offering sacrifices in person to pray for good fortune for the people so that they can have a good harvest.
In the first month of the second year, the emperor went to Ganquan Palace to worship Longqi in the suburbs. Good omens appeared several times.
Following the precedent of the timely period, chariots and uniforms flourished, people respectfully performed the etiquette of fasting and shrines, and wrote many poems.
In March of this year, I went to Jiese in person to offer sacrifices to Houtu. There were a gathering of gods and nobles, so I changed the Yuan Dynasty to Sujue.
An edict was issued to Taichang saying: Kensi and Dahai are the largest of all rivers, and no one is going to worship them now.
The ancestral officials are now ordered to make sacrifices an annual event, offering sacrifices to the Yangtze River, the sea, and the Luoshui River in the four seasons to pray for good harvests for the world.
From then on, the Five Mountains and the Four Mountains were often worshiped.
Mount Shuyue and Taishi were worshiped in Bodi, Zhongyue Taishi was worshiped in Songshan, Nanyue Zhishan was worshiped in Qiandi, Xiyue Huashan was worshiped in Huayin, Beiyue Changshan was worshiped in Shangquyang, the Yellow River was worshiped in Linjin, the Yangtze River was worshiped in Jiangdu, the Huai River was worshiped in Pingshi, and the Jishui was worshiped in Linyi. The envoys held talismans to preside over the sacrifices.
Only Mount Tai and the Yellow River have five temples a year, and the rivers have four temples. The rest pray once and offer sacrifices three times.
At that time, Nanjun captured a white tiger and presented its skin, teeth and claws to the court, and the emperor used them to build a temple.
According to the advice of the alchemists, four ancestral halls were built in Weiyang Palace for Suihou, Jianbao, Yubaobi and Zhoukangbaoding.
They also offered sacrifices to Taishi Mountain in Jimo, to Sanhu Mountain in Xiami, and to Tianfengyuan Huojing in Hongmen.
The Jupiter, Chenxing, Venus, Mars and Nandou Temples were also built next to Chang'an City.
They also worshiped Shenshan and the Eight Gods in Qucheng, worshiped the Shishe Shigu in Pengshan in Linqu, worshiped Zhifu Mountain in Zhuang, worshiped Chengshan in Wuye, and worshiped Laishan in Huang.
They worship the sun in Chengshan and the moon in Laishan.
They also offered sacrifices to the Four Seasons in Langye, and to Chiyou in Shouliang.
In Hubei, a nearby county of the capital, there are Laogu, Wudoshan, Sun and Moon, Five Emperors, Biren, and Jade Girl Temples. There is a Jinglu Shrine in Yunyang, which is used to worship King Xiutu.
In Fushi, four temples were built, including the Ziren Temple in Wulong Mountain and the Huangdi Temple, Tianshen Temple, and Diyuanshui Temple.
Some people said that there were gods of golden horses and jade roosters in Yizhou, which could be summoned by sacrifices, so they sent Wang, the admonishing doctor, to pray to the gods while holding amulets wrapped around them.
Doctor Liu Gengsheng presented the alchemy from the Dabao Secret Garden in the Huainan Pillow to the emperor, and the emperor ordered Fang to cast it.
Things didn't work out, and Liu Gengsheng was sentenced.
Jingzhao Yin Zhang Chang came to the court and remonstrated: I hope that the Ming Dynasty will not worry about the entertainment of chariots and horses at all times, reject the untrue words of faraway alchemists, and concentrate on the emperor's Taoism. The rule of peace will almost be achieved.
Later, Shang Fang and waiting for imperial edict were all revoked.
At this time, someone got a tripod in Meiyang and presented it to the emperor.
The emperor brought the matter to the relevant officials for discussion, and most of them believed that it should be presented to the ancestral temple, just like the situation during the Yuanding period.
Zhang Chang was fond of ancient writing. After examining the inscriptions on the tripod, he reported his opinions to the emperor and said: I heard that the ancestors of the Zhou Dynasty began in Houji, Houji was granted the title of Ya, Gong Liu started his business in Bindi, the king founded the country in the suburbs of Liang, and civil and military forces arose in Fengdi.

summary:
During Emperor Zhao’s reign, he was too young to participate in sacrifices. Emperor Xuan honored Emperor Wu as Shizong, building temples where divine signs like white cranes and five-colored geese appeared. Emperor Xuan personally performed suburban sacrifices at Ganquan and Jiese, changing the era name to Sujue. He ordered annual sacrifices to the Yangtze River, sea, and Luoshui, and regular worship of the Five Mountains and Four Rivers. Alchemists advised building temples for various gods, including Suihou and Zhoukangbaoding. Doctor Liu Gengsheng was punished for failed alchemy. Jingzhao Yin Zhang Chang advised against alchemists, and many were dismissed. A tripod found in Meiyang was debated; Zhang Chang argued it was a Zhou dynasty artifact, not suitable for the ancestral temple. Phoenixes and other auspicious signs led to the construction of Bushou Palace and Phoenix Hall. Emperor Xuan died after a reign marked by frequent sacrifices and omens.

================================================================================

Summary line 2
Span: 147-174 (score=0.4695)

original:
元帝即位，遵旧仪，间岁正月，一幸甘泉郊泰畤，又东至河东祠后土，西至雍祠五畤。
凡五奉泰畤、后土之祠。
亦施恩泽，时所过毋出田租，赐百户牛、酒，或赐爵，赦罪人。
元帝好儒，贡禹、韦玄成、匡衡等相继为公卿。
禹建言汉家宗庙祭祀多不应古礼，上是其言。
后韦玄成为丞相，议罢郡国庙，自太上皇、孝惠诸园寝庙皆罢。
后元帝寝疾，梦神灵谴罢诸庙祠，上遂复焉。
后或罢或复，至哀、平不定。
语在《韦玄成传》。
成帝初即位，丞相衡、御史大夫谭奏言： 帝王之事莫大乎承天之序，承天之序莫重于郊祀，故圣王尽心极虑以建其制。
祭天于南郊，就阳之义也；瘗地于北郊，即阴之象也。
天之于天子也，因其所都而各飨焉。
往者，孝武皇帝居甘泉宫，即于云阳立泰畤，祭于宫南。
今行常幸长安，郊见皇天，反北之泰阴，祠后土，反东之少阳，事与古制殊。
又至云阳，行溪谷中，厄陕且百里，汾阴则渡大川，有风波舟楫之危，皆非圣主所宜数乘，郡、县治道共张，吏民困苦，百官烦费。
劳所保之民，行危险之地，难以奉神灵而祈福祐，殆未合于承天子民之意。
昔者周文、武郊于丰、镐，成王郊于雒邑。
由此观之，天随王者所居而飨之，可见也。
甘泉泰畤、河东后土之祠宜可徙置长安，合于古帝王。
愿与群臣议定。
奏可。
大司马车骑将军许嘉等八人以为：所以从来久远，宜如故。
右将军王商、博士师丹、议郎翟方进等五十人以为：《礼记》曰 燔柴于太坛，祭天也；瘗于大折，祭地也。
兆于南郊，所以定天位也。
祭地于大折，在北郊，就阴位也。
郊外各在圣王所都之南、北。
《书》曰： 越三日丁已，用牲于郊，牛二。
周公加牲，告徙新邑，定郊礼于雒。

translation:
Emperor Yuan ascended the throne and followed the old etiquette. In the first month of every other year, he went to the outskirts of Ganquan Palace to worship Taizhi, then to the east of Hedong to worship Houtu, and to the west to Yongcheng to worship Wuzhi.
A total of five sacrifices were offered to Taishi and Houtu.
They also gave favors. Sometimes they did not have to pay land rent in the places they passed, and they gave cattle and wine to a hundred households, and some gave them titles of nobility. Forgive sinners.
Emperor Yuan liked Confucianism, and Gong Yu, Wei Xuancheng, Kuang Heng and others became ministers one after another.
Gong Yu suggested that most of the sacrifices held in the Mojia ancestral temple were inconsistent with ancient rituals, and the emperor agreed with his opinion.
Later, when Wei Xuan became prime minister, he suggested that the temples of prefectures and states should be abolished, and the sacrifices in the temples of various gardens and dormitories from Emperor Taishang to Emperor Xiaohui should be abolished.
Later, Emperor Yuan fell ill and dreamed that the gods came to condemn him for abolishing various temples, so Emperor Yuan resumed offering sacrifices.
Later, it was abolished and restored, and by the time of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, there was no definite number.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of Wei Xuancheng".
As soon as Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, Prime Minister Kuang Heng and Imperial Censor Zhang Tan reported: "There is no more important matter for an emperor than inheriting the throne from heaven, and nothing is more important than inheriting the throne from heaven than offering sacrifices in the suburbs. Therefore, the holy kings all tried their best to establish the ritual system of offering sacrifices in the suburbs."
Worshiping the sky in the southern suburbs has the meaning of tending to Yang; worshiping the earth in the northern suburbs symbolizes tending to Yin.
To the emperor, heaven means enjoying their respective sacrifices in the place where the emperor has established the capital.
In the past, Emperor Xiaowu lived in Ganquan Palace. When Taiyuan was established in Yunyang, he worshiped in the south of the palace.
Nowadays, when traveling to Chang'an, people often go to Chang'an to offer sacrifices to the emperor. Instead, they go north to the lunar point, and when they offer sacrifices to the earth, they go east to the more yang place. Things are different from the ancient system.
Then we went to Yunyang and walked in the valley. The road was narrow and steep for nearly a hundred miles. When we got to Fenyin, we had to cross a large river. There were dangers of storms and boating. It was not suitable for a wise monarch to do it repeatedly. The counties and counties repaired roads and supplied various utensils. The officials and the people were in hardship, and the officials spent a lot of money.
Making the people you protect work hard, walk in dangerous places, and find it difficult to serve the gods and pray for blessings is probably not in line with the original intention of accepting the destiny of the people and caring for the people.
In the past, King Wen and King Wu of Zhou worshiped in the suburbs of Fenghao, and King Cheng worshiped in the suburbs of Luoyi.
From this point of view, it is obvious that God follows the place where the emperor lives to enjoy the sacrifices.
The sacrifices of Taizhi in Ganquan and Houtu in Hedong should be moved to Chang'an, in line with the ancient emperors.
I hope to discuss it with all the ministers.
His memorial was approved.
Eight people including Xu Jia, the general of the Great Sima Chariot, believed that the ritual had a long history and should be the same as before.
Fifty people including Right General Wang Shang, Doctor Shidan, and Yilang Zhai Fangjin believed that the "Book of Rites" said that burning firewood in the Taitan Temple was a sacrifice to heaven; burying bamboo ropes and animals in Taizhe was a sacrifice to the earth.
The boundary of the altar is in the southern suburbs and is used to determine the heavenly position.
The place of sacrifice in Taizhe is in the northern suburbs, close to the Yin position.
The locations of the suburban sacrifices were on the north and south sides of the capital established by the Holy King.
"Book" says: Three days later, Ding Si said, there were two cows in the suburbs for sacrifice.
Duke Zhou increased the number of sacrifices, reported the move to the new capital, and established suburban rites in Luoyang.

summary:
Emperor Yuan followed old rituals, performing suburban sacrifices every other year, but favored Confucianism. Ministers like Gong Yu and Wei Xuancheng proposed abolishing many temples, but Emperor Yuan reversed this after dreaming of divine condemnation. Emperor Cheng’s reign saw a major reform: Prime Minister Kuang Heng and Imperial Censor Zhang Tan argued that sacrifices should be moved to Chang’an’s northern and southern suburbs, citing ancient practices and the hardships of traveling to Ganquan and Fenyin. After debate, the move was approved, and many temples were abolished. However, after Emperor Cheng had no heirs, the Empress Dowager ordered the restoration of the old temples at Ganquan, Fenyin, and Yongcheng, blaming the move for the lack of descendants. Emperor Cheng later became obsessed with alchemists, but Gu Yong warned against them, citing historical failures. Du Ye also criticized the distant sacrifices. After Emperor Cheng’s death, the Empress Dowager restored the northern and southern suburbs.

================================================================================

Summary line 3
Span: 333-367 (score=0.4967)

original:
《易》有八卦， 乾 、 坤 六子，水火不相逮，雷风不相誖，山泽通气，然后能变化，既成万物也。
臣前奏徙甘泉泰畤、汾阴后土皆复于南、北郊。
谨案《周官》 兆五帝于四郊 ，山川各因其方，今五帝兆居在雍五畤，不合于古。
又日、月、雷、风、山、泽，《易》卦六子之尊气，所谓六宗也。
星、辰、水、火、沟、渎，皆六完之属也。今或未特祀，或无兆居。
谨与太师光、大司徒宫、羲和歆等八十九人议，皆曰：天子父事天，母事地。今称天神曰皇天上帝，泰一兆曰泰畤，而称地祇曰后土，与中央黄灵同，又兆北郊，未有尊称。
宜令地祇称皇地后祇，兆曰广畤。
《易》曰 方以类聚，物以群分 。
分群神以类相从为五部，兆天地之别神：中央帝黄灵后土畤及日庙、北辰、北斗、填星、中宿中宫于长安城之未地兆；东方帝太昊青灵勾芒畤及雷公、风伯庙、岁星、东宿东宫于东郊兆；南方炎帝赤灵祝融畤及荧惑星、南宿南宫于南郊兆；西方帝少皞白灵蓐收畤及太白星、西宿西宫于西郊兆；北方帝颛顼黑灵玄冥畤及月庙、雨师庙、辰星、北宿北宫于北郊兆。
奏可，于是长安旁诸庙兆畤甚盛矣。
莽又言： 帝王建立社稷，百王不易。
社者，土也。
宗庙，王者所居。
稷者，百谷之主，所以奉宗庙，共粢盛，人所食以生活也。
王者莫不尊重亲祭，自为之主，礼如宗庙。
《诗》曰 乃立冢土 。
又曰 以御田祖，以祈甘雨 。
《礼记》曰 唯祭宗庙社稷，为越绋而行事 。
圣汉兴，礼仪稍定，已有官社，未立官稷。
遂于官社后立官稷，以夏禹配食官社，后稷配食官稷。
稷种穀树。
徐州牧岁贡五色土各一斗。
莽篡位二年，兴神仙事，以方士苏乐言，起八风台于宫中。
台成万金，作乐其上，顺风作液汤。
又种五梁禾于殿中，各顺色置其方面，先煮鹤髓、毒冒、犀玉二十余物渍种，计粟斛成一金，言此黄帝谷仙之术也。
以乐为黄门郎，令主之。
莽遂崇鬼神淫祀，至其末年，自天地六宗以下至诸小鬼神，凡千七百所，用三牲鸟兽三千余种。
后不能备，乃以鸡当鹜雁，犬当麋鹿。
数下诏自以当仙，语在其《传》。
赞曰：汉兴之初，庶事草创，唯一叔孙生略定朝廷之仪。
若乃正朔、服色、郊望之事，数世犹未章焉。
至于孝文，始以夏郊，而张仓据水德，公孙臣、贾谊更以为土德，卒不能明。
孝武之世，文章为盛，太初改制，而宽、司马迁等犹从臣、谊之言，服色数度，遂顺黄德。
彼以五德之传，从所不胜，秦在水德，故谓汉据土而克之。
刘向父子以为帝出于《震》，故包羲氏始受木德，其后以母传子，终而复始，自神农、黄帝下历唐、虞三代而汉得火焉。

translation:
There are eight trigrams in "Yi". Among the six sons of "Qian" and "Kun", water and fire are not in conflict with each other, thunder and wind are not in conflict with each other, and the breath of mountains and rivers are connected. Only in this way can changes be carried out and all things can be comprehensively formed.
Not long ago, I reported that Taizhi and Fenyin's back soil in Ganquan Palace had been restored to the northern and southern suburbs.
According to the teachings of "Zhou Guan" to establish the altars of the Five Emperors in the surrounding suburbs, the mountains are located according to their directions. The altars of the Five Emperors are now located at the five sides of Yongcheng, which does not conform to the ancient system.
There are also sun, moon, thunder, wind, mountains and rivers, and the noble spirit of the six sons of the hexagram "Yi" are the so-called six sects.
Stars, water, fire and ditches are all part of the six sects. Now some of them are not specially worshiped, and some have no altars to live in.
The minister carefully discussed with eighty-nine people including Taishi Kong Guang, Da Situ Gong, Xi and Liu Xin. They all said that the emperor served heaven like his father and served the earth like his mother. Now the god of heaven is called Huangtianshangtian, the altar of Taiyi is called Taizhi, and the god of earth is called Houtu, which is the same as Huangling in the center. In addition, the altar built in the northern suburbs has no honorific title.
The earth god should be called Huang Zhui Houzhi, and the altar should be called Guangshi.
"Yi" says that similar things gather together in one place, and different things are separated according to groups.
The gods are divided into five groups according to the same kind and place, and altars are built for gods other than heaven and earth: in the center are Emperor Huang Linghou Tu Shi and Yue Temple, Beichen, Beidou, Saturn, and Zhongsu Zhonggong, and the altar is built in the Weidi of Chang'an City; in the east are Emperor Wu Qingling Goumangzhi and Lei Gong, Fengbo Temple, Jupiter, and Shusu Shu Palace. An altar was built in Shujiao; in the south, there were Emperor Yan's Chiling Zhurongzhi, Mars, and Nansu Nangong, and an altar was built in the southern suburbs; in the west, there were Emperor Shaowu Bai Lingxuanzhi, Jinxing, and Xisu's West Palace, and an altar was built in the western suburbs; in the north, Emperor Zhuanxu's Heiling Xuanmingzhi, Yuemiao, Yushi Temple, Chenxing, and Beisu Beigong built an altar in the northern suburbs.
The petition was approved. As a result, the altars and temples in the temples near Chang'an City were very prosperous.
Wang Mang also said: The emperor established the country, and hundreds of kings did not change it.
She is the god of land.
The ancestral temple is the place where the emperor lives.
Ji is the main god of Baigu. It is used to serve the ancestral temple, provide sacrifices, and eat food to maintain life.
The emperor did not disrespect and value the sacrifices himself, and personally presided over the sacrifices. The etiquette was the same as that of sacrifices in the ancestral temple.
"Poetry" says that a big society was built.
He also said that he would serve Ji God and pray for sweet rain.
"Book of Rites" says that only offering sacrifices to the ancestors and temples is called Yuesui.
The Holy Han Dynasty was established, etiquette was gradually established, there were official societies, but there was no official country yet.
So Guan Ji was established after the official society, and Xia Yu was used to feed the official society, and Hou Ji was used to share the official grain.
Plant cereal trees in the fields.
The Mu Shou of Xuzhou paid a tribute of one dou each of the five colors of soil every year.
In the second year after Wang Mang usurped the throne, the affairs of immortals arose. According to the advice of the alchemist Su Le, the Eight Winds Tower was built in the palace.
It cost ten thousand gold to build the platform. Music was played on it and a liquid soup was built in the direction of the wind.
He also planted five grains of grain in the palace, placing each one in its proper position according to its own color. First, he boiled more than twenty kinds of materials such as crane marrow, tortoise shell, and rhinoceros jade to soak the seeds. One handful of millet was calculated into one gold. This was said to be the method of the Yellow Emperor's Valley Immortal.
He appointed Su Le as Huang Menlang and ordered him to take charge of this matter.
Wang Mang then worshiped ghosts and gods and performed too many sacrifices. By the end of Wang Mang's life, there were a total of 1,700 temples, ranging from the six sects of heaven and earth to the minor ghosts and gods, and more than 3,000 kinds of animals and birds were used.
Later, when they couldn't prepare everything, they used harps as geese and dogs as elk.
Several times, Shao thought that he should become a god, and his words were recorded in his biography.
Zan said: In the early days of the establishment of the Han Dynasty, everything was in the preliminary stage, and only Shu Sunsheng briefly formulated the etiquette of the court.
As for things like Zhengshuo, Fuse, Jiaowang, etc., it has not been clarified after several generations.
By the time of Emperor Xiaowen, people began to hold sacrifices in the summer suburbs. However, Zhang Cang based his practice on Shui De, while Gongsun Chen and Jia Yi thought it should be changed to Tu De, but they could not figure it out in the end.
In the era of Emperor Xiaowu, rituals, music, and laws flourished. At the beginning of the Taichu period, the ritual system was reformed, but Ni Kuan, Sima Qian, and others still followed what Gongsun Chen and Mai Yi said, and the service system followed Huang De.
Based on the principle that the five virtues are transmitted and followed and cannot be defeated, they believe that the Qin Dynasty relied on the virtue of water, so they said that the Han Dynasty defeated it based on the virtue of earth.
Liu Xiang and his son believed that the emperor came from "Zhen", so Bao Xi began to accept Mu De, which was passed from mother to son, and over and over again. From Shennong and Huangdi through the Tang, Yu and Han dynasties, they got Huo De.

summary:
Emperor Ai, ill, revived many temples, but after his death, the Empress Dowager again restored the Ganquan and Fenyin temples. Under Emperor Ping, Wang Mang reported extensively on sacrificial history, arguing for a return to the northern and southern suburbs and proposing a system where heaven and earth were worshiped together with ancestors. He established altars for the Five Emperors and various gods in Chang’an’s suburbs, and later added an official shrine for the god of grain. After usurping the throne, Wang Mang built the Eight Winds Tower and engaged in alchemy, with over 1,700 temples by his death. The text concludes with a commentary on the Han Dynasty’s ritual evolution, noting debates over the five virtues and the influence of alchemists, with Gu Yong’s criticisms deemed correct.

================================================================================

