Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 2, 3, 3, 6, 9]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
宣帝九男，穆张皇后生景帝、文帝、平原王干，伏夫人生汝南文成王亮、琅邪武王伷、清惠亭侯京、扶风武王骏，张夫人生梁王肜，柏夫人生赵王伦。
亮及伦别有传。
平原王榦，字子良。
少以公子魏时封安阳亭侯，稍迁抚军中郎将，进爵平阳乡侯。
五等建，改封定陶伯。
武帝践阼，封平原王，邑万一千三百户，给鼓吹、驸马二匹，加侍中之服。
咸宁初，遣诸王之国，干有笃疾，性理不恆，而颇清虚静退，简于情欲，故特诏留之。
太康末，拜光禄大夫，加侍中，特假金章紫绶，班次三司。
惠帝即位，进左光禄大夫，侍中如故，剑履上殿，入朝不趋。
榦虽王大国，不事其务，有所调补，必以才能。
虽有爵禄，若不在己，秩奉布帛，皆露积腐烂。
阴雨则出犊车而内露车，或问其故，对曰： 露者宜内也。
朝士造之，虽通姓名，必令立车马于门外，或终夕不见。
时有得观，与人物酬接，亦恂恂恭逊，初无阙失。
前后爱妾死，既敛，辄不钉棺，置后空室中，数日一发视，或行淫秽，须其尸坏乃葬之。
赵王伦辅政，以榦为卫将军。
惠帝反正，复为侍中，加太保。
齐王冏之平赵王伦也，宗室朝士皆以牛酒劳冏，榦独怀百钱，见冏乂之，曰： 赵王逆乱，汝能义举，是汝之功，今以百钱贺汝。
虽然，大势难居，不可不慎。
冏既辅政，榦诣之，冏出迎拜。
translation: 
Emperor Xuan had nine sons. Queen Mu Zhang gave birth to Emperor Jing, Emperor Wen, and Sima Wangqian of Pingyuan. Mrs. Fu gave birth to Sima Liang, king of Wencheng in Runan, Sima Nian, king of Langye Wu, Sima Jing, Hou Huiting of Qing Dynasty, and Sima Jun, king of Fufeng Wu. Mrs. Zhang gave birth to Sima Xu, king of Liang, and Sima Lun, king of Zhao, was born to Mrs. Bai.
Sima Liang and Sima Lun have other biographies.
Sima Qian, king of Pingyuan, was named Ziliang.
When he was young, he was granted the title of Marquis of Anyang Ting in the Wei Dynasty as a young master. He gradually moved to the rank of Zhonglang General of the Fu Army and became the Marquis of Pingyang Township.
The fifth-class title was established and the title was changed to Tao Bo.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and made him the King of Pingyuan. He was granted the title of 11,300 households, two horses for preaching and driving, and the clothes of the attendants.
In the early years of Xianning, kings were sent to feudal states. Sima Qian was seriously ill and could not maintain his rationality. He also liked peace and quiet and had little desire to compromise, so he specially wrote a Shao letter to keep him.
In the last years of Taikang, the official worshiped Dr. Guanglu and was appointed as a servant. He was specially given a gold seal and a purple ribbon, and his rank was the same as that of the three divisions.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and was promoted to Dr. Zuo Guanglu. His position as a servant remained the same. He wore a sword and wore shoes when going to the palace. There was no need to walk in small steps when entering the court.
Although Sima Qian was the king of a great feudal state and did not take care of government affairs, if he was transferred or replaced, it would be based on his ability.
Although he has a title and salary, it seems that he does not have it with him. The salary, cloth and silk are all piled up in the open air to rot.
On cloudy and rainy days, the bullock carts are driven out and the carts without curtains are put into the warehouse. Someone asked why, and the answer was: carts without curtains are suitable for storage.
When a court official visited him, even though his name was announced, the visitor's carriage and horses would be parked outside the door, and he might not be seen for a whole day.
I was able to visit him sometimes and socialize with others. He was very respectful and humble, and there were no mistakes at first.
Before and after my concubine died and was buried, the coffin was always left unnailed in an empty room at the back. I opened it every few days to look at it, maybe did some obscene things, and waited until the body rotted before burying it.
King Zhao Sima Lun assisted in the government affairs and appointed Sima Qian as General Wei.
Emperor Hui was deposed and re-established. Sima Qian wrote poems and was appointed Taibao.
When King Sima Tong of Qi pacified King Sima Lun of Zhao, the members of the royal family and the officials in the court all comforted Sima Tong with cow wine. Only Sima Qian had a hundred coins in his pocket. When he saw Sima Tong take it out, he said: King Zhao rebelled and rebelled. It is your credit for your righteous deeds. Now I use a hundred coins to congratulate you.
Even so, it is difficult for you to take advantage of the general trend, so you must be cautious.
After Sima Jian assisted in the government affairs, Sima Qian went to visit him, and Sima Tong came out to greet him.
summary:
Emperor Xuan had nine sons from various consorts. Queen Mu Zhang bore Emperor Jing, Emperor Wen, and Sima Qian (King of Pingyuan). Mrs. Fu gave birth to Sima Liang (King of Wencheng in Runan), Sima Nian (King of Langye Wu), Sima Jing (Marquis of Huiting in Qing Dynasty), and Sima Jun (King of Fufeng Wu). Mrs. Zhang bore Sima Xu (King of Liang), while Mrs. Bai bore Sima Lun (King of Zhao). Sima Qian, King of Pingyuan, was granted the title of Anyang Tinghou in the Wei Dynasty and later became King of Pingyuan under Emperor Wu with 11,300 households. He suffered from severe illness and was allowed to remain in the capital rather than go to his feudal state. He held various official positions including Guanglu大夫 and served as a servant. Although a great feudal lord, he did not care for government affairs. His salary and goods were left to rot in the open air. He was known for eccentric behavior, such as keeping his concubines' coffins unsealed in empty rooms and opening them to look at them periodically. During the rebellion of King Zhao Sima Lun, Sima Qian was appointed as General Wei and later Taibao. When Sima Tong of Qi pacified Sima Lun, Sima Qian congratulated him with a hundred coins. He died in the fifth year of Yongjia at age eighty.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
榦入，踞其床，不命冏坐，语之曰： 汝勿效白女兒， 其意指伦也。
及冏诛，榦哭之恸，谓左右曰： 宗室日衰，唯此兒最可，而复害之，从今殆矣！
东海王越兴义，至洛阳，往视干，干闭门不通。
越驻车良久，干乃使人谢遣，而自于门间窥之。
当时莫能测其意，或谓之有疾，或以为晦迹焉。
永嘉五年薨，时年八十。
会刘聪寇洛，不遑赠谥，有二子，世子广早卒，次子永以太熙中封安德县公，散骑常侍，皆为善士。
遇难，合门堙灭。
琅邪武王伷，字子将，正始初封南安亭侯。
早有才望，起家为宁朔将军，监守鄴城，有绥怀之称。
累迁散骑常侍，进封东武乡侯，拜右将军、监兗州诸军事、兗州刺史。
五等初建，封南皮伯。
转征虏将军、假节，武帝践阼，封东莞郡王，邑万六百户。
始置二卿，特诏诸王自选令长。
伷表让，不许。
入为尚书右仆射、抚军将军，出为镇东大将军、假节、徐州诸军事，代卫瓘镇下邳。
伷镇御有方，得将士死力，吴人惮之。
加开府仪同三司，改封琅邪王，以东莞益其国。
平吴之役，率众数万出涂中，孙皓奉笺送玺绶，诣伷请降，诏曰： 琅邪王伷督率所统，连据涂中，使贼不得相救。
又使琅邪相刘弘等进军逼江，贼震惧，遣使奉伪玺绶。
又使长史王恆率诸军渡江，破贼边守，获督蔡机，斩道降附五六万计，诸葛靓、孙奕皆归命请死，功勋茂著。其封子二人为亭侯，各三千户，赐绢六千匹。
顷之，并督青州诸军事，加侍中之服。
进拜大将军、开府仪同三司。
伷既戚属尊重，加有平吴之功，克己恭俭，无矜满之色，僚吏尽力，百姓怀化。
疾笃，赐床帐、衣服、钱帛、秔梁等物，遣侍中问焉。
translation: 
After Sima Qian entered the house, he squatted on Sima Gang's bed and refused to let Sima Tong sit down. He said to him: "Don't imitate women." This word means Sima Lun.
When Sima Tong was killed, Sima Qian cried very sadly and said to the people around him: "The clan is gradually declining, and only this son is the best. If you kill him, you will be in danger from now on!"
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, acted righteously and arrived in Luoyang to visit Sima Qian, but Sima Qian stayed behind closed doors.
Sima Yue's car stayed for a long time before Sima Qian sent someone to see the guest off, while he peeped through the crack in the door.
At that time, no one could fathom his intentions. Some said he was ill, while others thought he was doing something cryptic.
Yongjia died in the fifth year of his reign at the age of eighty.
It happened that Liu Cong invaded Luoyang and had no time to give him the nickname "Mi". He has two sons. The eldest son, Sima Guang, died young. The second son, Sima Yong, was named the Duke of Ande County in the Taixi year and served as a regular attendant. They are both good people.
In trouble, the whole family will be exterminated.
Sima Dian, the king of Langye Wu, was given the title Zijiang in the early years of his reign and was named Nan'antinghou.
He was talented and famous very early. He initially served as General Ningshuo and guarded Yecheng. He had a reputation for being good at appeasing people and making them obey.
Gradually he was moved to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi. In the Jin Dynasty, he was granted the title of Marquis of Shuwu Township. He was appointed as the Right General, supervised the military affairs of Yanzhou, and was the governor of Yanzhou.
The fifth-class title was established and he was named Nanpi Bo.
He was transferred to the post of General Zhenglu, Jiajie. Emperor Wu ascended the throne and granted him the title of Prince of Dongguan County, granting him a fief of 10,600 households.
When the second ministers were first established, a special edict was issued to let the kings choose their own commanders.
Sima Dian asked for permission, but the emperor refused.
After entering the imperial court, he served as Shangshu Youpushe and Fujun General. He was appointed as General Zhenshu, Jiajie, and Commander-in-Chief of Xuzhou's military affairs. He replaced Wei Cui to guard Xiapi.
Sima Dian defended the enemy well, and the soldiers were willing to die to serve him. The people of Wu were afraid of him.
He was granted the title of Kaifu Yitong and the Third Division, and was granted the title of King Langxie, using Dongguan to expand his feudal kingdom.
In the battle of Pingding County, Sun Hao led tens of thousands of troops from Tusheng. Sun Hao sent a letter and seal to Sima Dian to ask for surrender. Shaoshu says: Sima Bodu, King of Langxie, led the troops under his command to occupy Tuzhong one after another, making it impossible for the enemy to save each other.
He also sent the fallen evil minister Liu Hong and others to march towards the Yangtze River. The enemy was shocked and frightened, and sent an envoy to present the fake seal and ribbon.
Sima Dian then sent Chief Shi Wangheng to lead his troops to cross the Yangtze River, break through the enemy's border defenses, capture Lan Bian, the governor, beheaded and surrendered 50,000 to 60,000 people, and condemned Jiang Dan, Yu Sai and others to surrender and plead guilty. Sima Dian's meritorious service was outstanding, and his two sons were granted the title of Marquis of Ting, each with a title of 3,000 households and 6,000 pieces of silk.
Soon, he also supervised all the military affairs in Qingzhou and added the clothing of the servants.
He was promoted to General, Kaifu Yitong and the Third Division.
Sima Dian not only had a distinguished status because he was a relative of the emperor, but also contributed to the pacification of Wu. He restrained himself from being respectful and indulgent, and did not appear to be complacent about his achievements. His staff did their best, and the people were inspired and attached to him.
When he was seriously ill, he was given bed tents, clothes, money, silk, rice and other items, and his servants were sent to greet him.
summary:
Sima Dian, King of Langye Wu, was talented and famous from an early age. He served as General Ningshuo guarding Yecheng and later as General Zhenshu guarding Xiapi, where he defended well against the Wu people. During the pacification of Wu, Sun Hao surrendered to Sima Dian, who sent troops across the Yangtze River, capturing enemy officials and securing the surrender of 50,000 to 60,000 people. His two sons were made marquises. He died in the fourth year of Taikang at age fifty-seven. His descendants included Sima Rui, who later became Emperor Yuan, and several others who successively held the title of King of Langye.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
太康四年薨，时年五十七。
临终表求葬母太妃陵次，并乞分国封四子，帝许之。
子恭王觐立。
又封次子澹为武陵王，繇为东安王，漼为淮陵王。
觐字思祖，拜冗从仆射。
太熙元年薨，时年三十五。
子睿立，是为元帝。
中兴初，以皇子裒为琅邪王，奉恭王祀。
裒早薨，更以皇子焕为琅邪王。
其日薨，复以皇子昱为琅邪王。
咸和之初，既徙封会稽，成帝又以康帝为琅邪王，康帝即位，封成帝长子哀帝为琅邪王。
哀帝即位，以废帝为琅邪王。
废帝即位，以会稽王摄行琅邪国祀。
简文帝登阼，琅邪王无嗣。
及帝临崩，封少子道子为琅邪王。
道子后为会稽王，更以恭帝为琅邪王。
帝既即位，琅邪国除。
武陵庄王澹字思弘。
初为冗从仆射，后封东武公，邑五千二百户。
转前将军、中护军。
性忌害，无孝友之行。
弟东安王繇有令名，为父母所爱，澹恶之如仇，遂谮繇于汝南王亮，亮素与繇有隙，奏废徙之。
赵王伦作乱，以澹为领军将军。
澹素与河内郭俶、俶弟侃亲善。
酒酣，俶等言张华之冤，澹性酗酒，因并杀之，送首于伦，其酗虐如此。
澹妻郭氏，贾后内妹也。
初恃势，无礼于澹母。
齐王冏辅政，澹母诸葛太妃表澹不孝，乞还繇，由是澹与妻子徙辽东。
其子禧年五岁，不肯随去，曰： 耍当为父求还，无为俱徙。
陈诉历年，太妃薨，繇被害，然后得还。
拜光禄大夫、尚书、太子太傅，改封武陵王。
永嘉末为石勒所害，子哀王喆立。
translation: 
Taikang died in the fourth year of his reign at the age of fifty-seven.
On his deathbed, he petitioned to be buried next to his mother's mausoleum and to divide his kingdom among his four sons. The emperor agreed.
His son, Prince Gong, Sima Su, succeeded to the throne.
He also named his second son, Mo Shan, King of Juni, Sima Yao as King of Dong'an, and Sima Huai as King of Huailing.
Sima Jin's name is Sizu, and he has many officials and servants.
Taixi died in the first year of his reign at the age of thirty-five.
His son Sima Rui succeeded to the throne, also known as Wu Tong.
At the beginning of the restoration of the emperor's empire, the prince Sima Cao was made the king of falling mo and offered sacrifices to Prince Gong.
Sima Pei died early and made his prince Sima Huan the king of Langxie.
He died that day and took the title of Prince Sima Yu as King Langxie.
In the early years of Xianhe, after Sima Yu was transferred to Kuaiji, Emperor Cheng made Emperor Kang the king of Langxie. Emperor Kang ascended the throne and named Emperor Cheng's eldest son Ai Emperor as King Langxie.
Emperor Ai ascended the throne and made the deposed Emperor the king of Langxie.
After the deposed emperor ascended the throne, King Kuaiji acted as the minister of sacrifice for the Langye Kingdom.
Emperor Jianwen ascended the throne, and King Langxie had no successor.
When the emperor was dying, he named his youngest son Daozi King Langxie.
Daozi later became King of Kuaiji, and Emperor Gong was appointed King of Langxie.
After Emperor Gong ascended the throne, Langye Kingdom was abolished.
Sima Dan, the king of Wulingzhuang, was named Sihong.
At first he served as a servant, and later he was granted the title of Duke of Dongwu, with a fief of 5,200 households.
Transferred to the post of former general and central protector.
He is jealous and harmful by nature and has no filial and friendly character.
His younger brother Sima Yao, king of Dong'an, had a good reputation and was loved by his parents. Sima Dan hated him as an enemy, so he spoke ill of Sima Yao to Sima Liang, king of Runan. Sima Liang had always had conflicts with Sima Yao, so he petitioned to abolish him and move him.
King Zhao Sima Lun rebelled and appointed Sima Dan as the leading general.
Sima Dan has always been friendly with Guo Chu in Hanoi and Sima Chu's younger brother.
When the wine was in full swing, He Ye and others talked about the grievances of Tui Gan. Sima Dan was a drunkard by nature, so he killed both of them and gave their heads to Sima Lun. He stopped drinking and went on a violent rampage.
Sima Dan's wife, Su Di, was the queen's sister-in-law.
At first, relying on his family status, he was rude to Sima Dan's mother.
King Sima Tong of Qi was assisting in government affairs. Sima Dan's mother, Princess Zhuge, complained that Sima Dan was unfilial and begged to be let back. Therefore, Sima Dan, his wife and children moved to Liaosai.
His son Sima Xi, who was five years old, refused to go with him, saying: "We should ask to come back for our father, and we should not move together."
After complaining for many years, the concubine passed away, Sima Yao was killed, and then he was able to return to the court.
The official title was Guanglu Dafu, Shangshu, Prince Taifu, and was renamed King Wuling.
In the last years of Yongjia, he was killed by Shi Le, and his son Sima Zhe, King of Ai, succeeded him.
summary:
Sima Dan, King of Wulingzhuang, was jealous and harmful by nature with no filial character. He hated his brother Sima Yao and spoke ill of him to Sima Liang. During Sima Lun's rebellion, Sima Dan served as leading general. He killed two men while drunk and gave their heads to Sima Lun. His mother complained of his unfilial behavior, and he was moved to Liaosai with his family. He was later killed by Shi Le in the late Yongjia period.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
喆字景林，拜散骑常侍，亦为勒所害。
无子，其后元帝立皇子晞为武陵王，以奉澹祀焉。
东安王繇字思玄。
初拜东安公，历散骑黄门侍郎，迁散骑常侍。
美须髯，性刚毅，有威望，博学多才，事亲孝，居丧尽礼。
诛杨骏之际，繇屯云龙门，兼统诸军，以功拜右卫将军，领射声校尉，进封郡王，邑二万户，加侍中，兼典军大将军，领右卫如故。
迁尚书右仆射，加散骑常侍。
是日诛赏三百余人，皆自繇出。
东夷校尉文俶父钦为繇外祖诸葛诞所杀，繇虑俶为舅家之患，是日亦以非罪诛俶。
繇兄澹屡构繇于汝南王亮，亮不纳。
至是以繇专行诛赏，澹因隙谮之，亮惑其说，遂免繇官，以公就第，坐有悖言，废徙带方。
永康初，征繇，复封，拜宗正卿，迁尚书，转左仆射。
惠帝之讨成都王颖，时繇遭母丧在鄴，劝颖解兵而降。
及王师败绩，颖怨繇，乃害之。
后立琅邪王觐子长乐亭侯浑为东安王，以奉繇祀。
寻薨，国除。
淮陵元王漼字思冲。
初封广陵公，食邑二千九百户。
历左将军、散骑常侍。
赵王伦之篡也，三王起义，漼与左卫将军王舆攻杀孙秀，因而废伦。
以功进封淮陵王，入为尚书，加侍中，转宗正、光禄大夫。
薨，子贞王融立。
薨，无子，安帝时立武陵威王孙蕴为淮陵王，以奉元王之祀，位至散骑常侍。
薨，无子，以临川王宝子安之为嗣。
宋受禅，国除。
清惠亭侯京，字子佐，魏末以公子赐爵。
年二十四薨，追赠射声校尉，以文帝子机字太玄为嗣。
泰始元年，封燕王，邑六千六百六十三户。
机之国，咸宁初征为步兵校尉，以渔阳郡益其国，加侍中之服。
拜青州都督、镇东将军、假节，以北平、上谷、广宁郡一万三百三十七户增燕国为二万户。
薨，无子，齐王冏表以子几嗣。
后冏败，国除。
扶风武王骏，字子臧。
幼聪惠，年五六岁能书疏，讽诵经籍，见者奇之。
及长，清贞守道，宗室之中最为俊望，魏景初中，封平阳亭侯。
齐王芳立，骏年八岁，为散骑常侍侍讲焉。
translation: 
Sima Zhe, whose courtesy name was Jinglin, was a regular servant of Sanqi. He was also killed by Shi Le.
He had no son, so Emperor Yuan later appointed his prince Sima Xi as King of Wuling to offer sacrifices to Sima Dan.
Sima Yao, King of Dong'an, had the courtesy name Si Xuan.
At first, he was the Duke of Dong'an, and he successively served as the minister of Huangmen of Sanqi, and then moved to the position of regular servant of Sanqi.
A person with a beautiful beard, resolute temperament, authority, erudition, filial piety in serving relatives, and exhaustive etiquette in mourning.
When Yang Jun was executed, Sima Yao stationed troops in Yunlong and commanded all the troops. Because of his meritorious service, he was worshiped as the General of the Right Guard and the Colonel of Shesheng. He was granted the title of Prince of the County in the Jin Dynasty and was granted the title of 20,000 households. He was also appointed as the Shizhong and the General of the Dian Army. He also served as the General of the Right Guard.
He was moved to the right servant of Shangshu and appointed as the regular servant of Sanqi.
On this day, more than three hundred people were punished and rewarded, and the orders were all issued from Sima Yao.
The father of Shuyi captain Wen Fang, Sai Leng, was killed by Danwudeng's grandfather, Zhu Jiang Dan. Danwu Xun was worried that Sai Tan was a nuisance to his uncle's family, so Zaotian killed Wen because he was not guilty.
Sima Yao's brother Sima Dan repeatedly accused Sima Liang of being accused by King Sima Liang of Runan, but Sima Liang refused to listen.
At this time, because Sima Yao was arbitrary in punishments and rewards, Sima Dan took the opportunity to speak ill of Sima Yao. Sima Liang was deceived by Sizhui's rhetoric, so he dismissed Yao Sheng from his official position and returned to his mansion as a public servant. He was convicted of rebellious remarks and moved to Daifang.
In the early years of Yongkang, Sima Yao was recruited and his title was restored. His official title was Zong Zhengqing, and he was moved to the post of Shangshu and Zuopushe.
When Emperor Hui was attacking Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, Sima Yao was holding a funeral for his mother in Ye, and he persuaded Sima Ying to lay down his weapons and surrender.
When the emperor's army was defeated, Sima Ying resented Sima Yao and killed him.
Later, Sima Hun, the Marquis of Changleting, son of Sima Jin, the king of Langxie, was appointed king of Shu'an to offer sacrifices to Sima Yao.
He died soon after and the feudal state was lifted.
Sima Huai, king of Yuan Dynasty in Huailing, was named Sichong.
At first he was granted the title of Duke of Guangling, with a fief of 2,900 households.
He successively served as general of the left and regular attendant of Sanqi.
When King Sima Lun of Zhao usurped the throne, the three kings rebelled. Sima Guan and Zuowei General Wang Yu attacked and killed Sun Xiu, thus deposing Sima Lun.
Because of his meritorious service, he ascended the throne and became the King of Huai Ling. He entered the court and was appointed as the Minister, and was also appointed as the Minister, and was transferred to Zong Zheng and Guang Lu.
After his death, his son Zhenwang Sima Rong succeeded him.
He died without a son. During the reign of Emperor An, he appointed Sima Yun, the grandson of King Wulingwei, as King of Huailing to offer sacrifices to King Yuan.
He died without a son, Yilin! Wang Sima Bao's son Anzhi succeeded him.
Song accepted the abdication and the feudal state was cancelled.
Sima Jing, the Marquis of Huiting in the Qing Dynasty, was given the title Zizuo as a prince in the late Wei Dynasty.
When he died at the age of twenty-four, he was given posthumously as Captain Shesheng, and was succeeded by Emperor Wen's son Sima Ji, courtesy name Taixuan.
In the first year of Taishi, he was granted the title of King of Yan and granted 6,663 towns.
Sima Ji went to the feudal state. In the early years of Xianning, he was recruited as an infantry captain. He used Yuyang County to expand his feudal state and add clothes to his servants.
The official paid homage to the governor of Qingzhou and the general of Zhenshu. During the holidays, he used 10,337 households in Beiping, Shanggu and Guangmi counties to increase the number of Yan Kingdom to 20,000.
He died without a son, so King Sima Jian of Qi asked his son Sima Ji to succeed him.
Later, Sima Tong failed and the feudal state was cancelled.
Sima Jun, the King of Wu in Fufeng, was given the courtesy name Zizang.
He was clever when he was young, and when he was five or six years old, he could write memorials and recite scriptures, and people who saw him were amazed.
When he grows up, he will be quiet, upright and upright, and he will have the best reputation in the clan. In the middle of Wei Jingchu's reign, he was named Pingyang Tinghou.
King Cao Fang of Qi came to the throne. Sima Jun was eight years old and became a regular attendant of Sanqi.
summary:
Sima Yao, King of Dong'an, was resolute, authoritative, and learned, with filial piety in serving relatives. He was granted 20,000 households and held various positions. He was arbitrary in punishments and rewards, leading to his dismissal and exile to Daifang. He was later restored but killed by Sima Ying after the emperor's army was defeated. Sima Jun, King of Fufeng Wu, was clever from childhood, able to write memorials and recite scriptures at age five or six. He was quiet, upright, and had the best reputation in the clan. He served as General of Zhenxi, guarding Guanzhong, and was skilled at appeasing rulers. He promoted agriculture and shared labor with soldiers. He suppressed Qiang rebellions and received surrenders from various tribes. He was filial to his mother and eager to learn, writing treatises on benevolence and filial piety. When he died, people wept for him and erected monuments.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
公荷籓屏之任，居推毂之重，拜表辄行，有何不可！
而使奸凶滋蔓，祸衅不测，岂维翰王室，镇静方夏之谓乎！
歆将出军，王绥又曰： 昌等小贼，偏裨自足制之，不烦违帝命，亲矢石也！
乃止。
昌至樊城，歆出距之，众溃，为昌所害。
追赠骠骑将军。
无子，以兄子劭为后，永嘉末没于石勒。
梁孝王肜，字子徽，清修恭慎，无他才能，以公子封平乐亭侯。
及五等建，改封开平子。
武帝践阼，封梁王，邑五千三百五十八户。
及之国，迁北中郎将，督鄴城守事。
时诸王自选官属，肜以汝阴上计吏张蕃为中大夫。
蕃素无行，本名雄，妻刘氏解音乐，为曹爽教伎，蕃又往来何晏所，而恣为奸淫。
晏诛，徙河间，乃变名自结于肜。
为有司所奏，诏削一县。
咸宁中，复以陈国、汝南南顿增封为次国。
太康中，代孔洵监豫州军事，加平东将军，镇许昌。
顷之，又以本官代下邳王晃监青徐州军事，进号安东将军。
元康初，转征西将军，代秦王柬都督关中军事，领护西戎校尉。
加侍中，进督梁州。
寻征为卫将军、录尚书事，行太子太保，给千兵百骑。
久之，复为征西大将军，代赵王伦镇关中，都督凉、雍诸军事，置左右长史、司马。
又领西戎校尉，屯好畤，督建威将军周处、振威将军卢播等伐氐贼齐万年于六陌。
肜与处有隙，促令进军而绝其后，播又不救之，故处见害。
朝廷尤之。
寻征拜大将军、尚书令、领军将军、录尚书事。
肜尝大会，谓参军王铨曰： 我从兄为尚书令，不能啖大脔。
大脔故难。
translation: 
The Duke is responsible for the royal family's barrier and is in an important position to assist the court. He can act as soon as he submits the seal. What's wrong with that?
If evil and evil grow and spread, and disasters are difficult to predict, can this be called supporting the royal family to pacify the Central Plains?
Sima Xin was about to send troops, and Wang Sui said again: "Zhang Chang and other small bandits can be subdued by his own generals. There is no need to disobey the emperor's orders and go to the battlefield in person!"
So he withdrew his troops.
When Zhang Chang arrived at Fancheng, Sima Xin sent troops to resist him. The army was defeated and Zhang Chang killed him.
Posthumously awarded the title of General of Hussars.
He had no sons, so his elder brother's son Sima Shao was his heir. Yongjia died in Shile in the last years of his life.
Liang Xiaowang Sima Xu was named Zihui. He practiced Qingjing, was respectful and prudent, and had no other talents. As a young master, he was named Pingletinghou.
When the fifth-class title was established, he was renamed Kaipingzi.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and named him King of Liang, granting him 5,358 households.
When he left the enfeoffed country, he was moved to the position of Beizhonglang General and supervised the defense of Yecheng.
At that time, the kings selected their own officials and subordinates, and Sima Shu selected Zhang Fan, the chief official of Ruyin, as the middle official.
Zhang Fan has never been of good character. His real name is Xiong, and his wife Liu knows music and teaches singing to Cao Shuang. Zhang Fan visited He Yan again and committed adultery as he pleased.
He Yan was killed and moved to Hejian, so he changed his name and took the initiative to befriend Sima Xu.
After being reported by relevant officials, Sima Xu was reduced to one county in Xia Shao.
During the Xianning period, Chen Guo and Runan Nandun were added as vassal states.
During the Taikang period, he replaced Kong Xun in supervising the military affairs of Yuzhou, and was appointed General Pingdong to guard Xu Lu.
Soon, he replaced Sima Huang, King of Xiapi, in his original position as supervising the military affairs of Qingzhou and Xuzhou, and was promoted to General Anton.
In the early years of Yuankang, he was transferred to the general of Zhengxi, replacing the Qin King Sima Sai to supervise the military affairs in Guanzhong, and also served as the captain of the Xirong Guards.
He was appointed as a minister and promoted to supervise Liangzhou.
Soon after, he was appointed as General of the Guard, recorded as a minister, acted as the crown prince's Taibao, and was given the title of one thousand soldiers and one hundred horses.
Much later, he was appointed as the General of the Expedition to the West, replacing King Sima Lun of Zhao to guard Guanzhong. He was also the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Liang and Yong, and appointed the left and right Chang Shi and Sima.
He also served as the captain of the Xirong School, stationed troops in Haozhi, and supervised General Jianwei Qiechu, Zhenwei General Lu Zhong and others in Liumo against the Di enemy bandit Cha Wannian.
There was a conflict between Sima Xu and Dan, who urged him to march and cut off his support. Lu Bo did not save him, so Zhou Chu was killed.
The court accused Sima Xu.
Soon he was recruited as a general, a minister, a leading general, and a minister.
Sima Xu once held a gathering of guests and said to the army workers: My cousin is serving as a minister and cannot swallow his power.
Rights are hard to come by.
summary:
Sima Xu, King of Liang, practiced quietness and was respectful and prudent. He served as General of Zhengxi guarding Guanzhong and later as Grand Administrator and Situ. During Sima Lun's usurpation, he served as prime minister. After his death, there was debate over his posthumous name, with some criticizing him for failing to take a stand during crises. He had no sons, and his title passed through various relatives.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
及长，清和平允，亲贤好施，爱经籍，能属文，善尺牍，为世所楷。
才望出武帝之右，宣帝每器之。
景帝无子，命攸为嗣。
从征王凌，封长乐亭侯。
及景帝崩，攸年十岁，哀动左右，大见称叹。
袭封舞阳侯。
奉景献羊后于别第，事后以孝闻。
复历散骑常侍、步兵校尉，时年十八，绥抚营部，甚有威惠。
五等建，改封安昌侯，迁卫将军。
居文帝丧，哀毁过礼，杖而后起。
左右以稻米干饭杂理中丸进之，攸泣而不受。
太后自往勉喻曰： 若万一加以他疾，将复如何！
宜远虑深计，不可专守一志。
常遣人逼进饮食，司马嵇喜又谏曰： 毁不灭性，圣人之教。
且大王地即密亲，任惟元辅。
匹夫犹惜其命，以为祖宗，况荷天下之大业，辅帝室之重任，而可尽无极之哀，与颜闵争孝！
不可令贤人笑，愚人幸也。
喜躬自进食，攸不得已，为之强饭。
喜退，攸谓左右曰： 嵇司马将令我不忘居丧之节，得存区区之身耳。
武帝践阼，封齐王，时朝廷草创，而攸总统军事，抚宁内外，莫不景附焉。
诏议籓王令自选国内长吏，攸奏议曰； 昔圣王封建万国，以亲诸侯，轨迹相承，莫之能改。
诚以君不世居，则人心偷幸；人无常主，则风俗伪薄。
是以先帝深览经远之统，思复先哲之轨，分土画疆，建爵五等，或以进德，或以酬功。
伏惟陛下应期创业，树建亲戚，听使籓国自除长吏。
而今草创，制度初立，虽庸蜀顺轨，吴犹未宾，宜俟清泰，乃议复古之制。
书比三上，辄报不许。
translation: 
When he grows up, he will be calm, kind and fair, be close to wise people, like charity, like classic books, be able to write articles, be good at letters, and be imitated by the world.
His talent and reputation were greater than those of Emperor Wu, and Emperor Xuan often valued him.
Emperor Jing had no sons, so he made Sima You his heir.
He followed Wang Jun in his campaign and was named the Marquis of Changle Pavilion.
When Emperor Jing died, Sima You was only ten years old. His sorrow moved the people around him and he was praised and praised.
Inherited the title of Wuyang Hou.
After serving Jing Xian Yang in another mansion, he became famous for his filial piety when serving the queen.
He also served as a regular servant of the cavalry and an infantry captain. He was 18 years old at the time. He appeased the subordinates in the military camp and was very majestic and gracious.
The fifth-level title was established, and he was renamed Anchanghou and moved to General Wei.
In mourning for Emperor Wen, he was so disfigured that he could only stand up with a wooden stick.
His subordinates made rice balls into balls for him to eat, but Sima You cried and refused to accept them.
The Queen Mother personally went to enlighten him and said: What should I do if I get other diseases?
You should think long-term and not stick to one idea.
He often sent people to force Sima You to eat, but Sima Jixi remonstrated and said: "Be sad without losing your temper. This is the teaching of a saint."
Moreover, the king is a close relative of the clan and has the important task of assisting in government affairs.
Ordinary people still cherish their lives for the sake of their ancestors, not to mention that you are responsible for the great cause of the world and the important task of assisting the royal family. How can you express your boundless sorrow and compete with Yan Yuan and Min Sun for filial piety!
Don't let wise people laugh at you and fools rejoice.
Ji happy personally served food and drinks, but Sima You had no choice but to eat.
After Ji Xi withdrew, Sima You said to the people around him: "Ji Sima will make me remember the etiquette of mourning and preserve my small body."
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and named Sima You King of Qi. At that time, the imperial court had just been established, and Sima You was in charge of the military affairs. He was responsible for the control of Anning both inside and outside.
Shao Shu discussed how the vassal king asked them to choose the senior officials in the country. Sima You reported: In the past, the sage kings established feudal kingdoms to get close to the princes. The rules were passed down from generation to generation and no one could change them.
The truth is that if the king is not passed down from generation to generation, people will be left to chance; if people do not have stable masters, their customs will be hypocritical and honest.
Therefore, the late emperor deeply studied the orthodoxy that governs all ages, and considered restoring the rules of the ancient sages, dividing land boundaries, and establishing five levels of nobility, either to promote virtue or to reward meritorious officials.
I thought that Your Majesty was following the will of God to establish a great cause, establish feudal relatives, and let the vassal state appoint senior officials on its own.
However, the great cause is now being established and the system has just been established. Although Yongshu is obedient, Wu has not yet surrendered. We should wait until the Qing Dynasty is peaceful before discussing the restoration of the ancient system.
The memorial was sent three times in succession, and they all responded that they disagreed.
summary:
Sima You, King of Qi Xian, was wise from youth, calm, kind, and fond of classical books. He was made heir to Emperor Jing and inherited the title of Wuyang Hou. Under Emperor Wu, he was made King of Qi and managed military affairs. He was known for his filial piety and moral conduct. He advised on agricultural policies and government administration. He was especially favored by Emperor Wen, who nearly made him crown prince. However, due to the machinations of Xun Xu and Feng Shou, Emperor Wu sent him to his feudal state. Sima You became ill from resentment and died at age thirty-six while traveling. His son Sima Tong succeeded him.

