Summary line 0
Span: 0-26 (score=0.7015)

original:
王昌一名郎，赵国邯郸人也。
素为卜相工，明星历，常以为河北有天子气。
时赵缪王子林好奇数，任侠于赵、魏间，多通豪猾，而郎与之亲善。
初，王莽篡位，长安中或自称成帝子子舆者，莽杀之。
郎缘是诈称真子舆，云 母故成帝讴者，尝下殿卒僵，须臾有黄气从上下，半日乃解，遂妊身就馆。赵后欲害之，伪易他人子，以故得全。
子舆年十二，识命者郎中李曼卿，与俱至蜀；十七，到丹阳；二十，还长安；展转中山，来往燕、赵，以须天时 。
林等愈动疑惑，乃与赵国大豪李育、张参等通谋，规共立郎。
会人间传赤眉将度河，林等因此宣言赤眉当至，立刘子舆以观众心，百姓多信之。
更始元年十二月，林等遂率车骑数百，晨入邯郸城，止于王宫，立郎为天子。
林为丞相，李育为大司马，张参为大将军。
分遣将帅，徇下幽、冀。
移檄州郡曰： 制诏部刺史、郡太守：朕，孝成皇帝子子舆者也。
昔遭赵氏之祸，因以王莽篡杀，赖知命者将护朕躬，解形河滨，削迹赵、魏。
王莽窃位，获罪于天，天命佑汉，故使东郡太守翟义、严乡侯刘信，拥兵征讨，出入胡、汉。
普天率土，知朕隐在人间。
南岳诸刘，为其先驱。
朕仰观天文，乃兴于斯，以今月壬辰即位赵宫。
休气熏蒸，应时获雨。
盖闻为国，子之袭父，古今不易。
刘圣公未知朕，故且持帝号。
诸兴义兵，咸以助朕，皆当裂土享祚子孙。
已诏圣公及翟太守，亟与功臣诣行在所。
疑刺史、二千石皆圣公所置，未睹朕之沉滞，或不识去就，强者负力，弱者惶惑。
今元元创痍，已过半矣，朕甚悼焉，故遣使者班下诏书。 郎以百姓思汉，既多言翟义不死，故祚称之，以从人望。
于是赵国以北，辽东以西，皆从风而靡。
明年，光武自蓟得郎檄，南走信都，发兵徇帝县，遂攻柏人，不下。
议者以为守柏人不如定巨鹿，光武乃引兵东北围巨鹿。

translation:
Wang Chang was a prince, a native of Handan, Zhao State.
He was originally a fortune-teller and fortune-teller, and he had some knowledge of astronomy and calculus. He often thought that Hebei had the aura of the Son of Heaven.
At this time, Liu Lin, the son of King Mu of Zhao, loved magic and practiced chivalry between Zhao and Wei. He had many connections with powerful and lawless people, and Wang Chang was friendly with him.
At first, when Wang Mang usurped the throne, there was a man in Chang'an who claimed to be Liu Ziyu, the son of Emperor Cheng, and Wang Mang killed him.
Wang Lang relied on this clue and falsely claimed that he was the true son of the emperor, saying: My mother was a singer who became the emperor. One time when she was going down to the palace, she suddenly collapsed.
When Ziyu was twelve years old, a doctor named Li Manqing took him to Shu. When he was seventeen, he arrived in Danyang. When he was twenty, he returned to Chang'an. He traveled between Zhongshan and Yanzhao, waiting for the arrival of the right time.
Liu Lin and others were even more confused, so they conspired with Li Yu, Zhang Shen and others to plan to support Wang Lang.
It happened that people said that Red Eyebrow was about to cross the Yellow River, so Liu Lin and others declared that Red Eyebrow was coming, and asked Liu Ziyu to see the reaction of the people, and many people believed it.
In December of the first year of Gengshi, Liu Lin and others led hundreds of chariots and riders, entered Handan City early in the morning, stopped at the palace, and made Wang Lang the emperor.
Liu Lin was the Prime Minister, Li Yu was the Grand Sima, and Zhang Shen was the General.
Send generals to capture Youzhou and Jizhou respectively.
Send the proclamation to the prefectures and counties and say: "I order the governors of each prefecture and the prefect of the prefecture: I am Liu Ziyu, the son of Emperor Xiaocheng."
In the past, I was harmed by the Zhao family. After Wang Mang usurped the Han Dynasty, he killed the fake Ziyu. Fortunately, someone who knew the destiny protected me, and I was able to escape from the riverside and disappear between Zhao and Wei.
Wang Mang's theft of the throne offended Heaven, and Heaven blessed us with the Han Dynasty, so we sent Zhai Yi, the governor of Dongjun, and Liu Xin, the Marquis of Yanxiang, to support the attack and go between the Hu people and the Han people.
Everyone in the world, on the shores of the earth, knows that I am hidden in the world.
The Liu brothers in Nanyue are all my pioneers.
I looked up at the astronomical sky and knew that God wanted me to rise here, so I ascended the throne of Zhao Palace on Renchen this month.
The auspicious atmosphere is fumigating, and the rain falls at the right time.
I heard that for a country's leader, the son inherits the throne from his father. This is a legal system that has not changed since ancient times.
Liu Shenggong didn't know I was there, so he temporarily became emperor.
They are all helping me by raising armies for justice, and they should allocate land so that their descendants can enjoy happiness.
I have ordered Duke Sheng and Prefect Zhai to hurry up and come to me with all the heroes.
Some people suspect that the governor and the two thousand stones were set up by the Holy Gong. They did not see my stagnation and suffering, and some did not know where to go. The strong relied on their own strength, and the weak were afraid and confused.
Now the common people are suffering from wounds, and I am afraid that more than half of them are dead or injured. I feel very sad, so I sent an envoy to issue an edict. Wang Lang saw that the people missed the Han Dynasty, and many people said that Zhai Yi was not dead yet, so he told these lies to comply with the popularity of the people.
So the north of Zhao and the west of Liaodong were invincible.
The next year, Guangwu received Wang Lang's letter from Jixian and rushed to Xindu. He sent troops to attack the next county and then turned to attack Bairen, but failed to capture it.
The people who discussed it thought that besieging the Bai people was not as good as pacifying Julu, so Guangwu led his troops to the northeast to besiege Julu.

summary:
Wang Chang, a prince from Handan in Zhao State, was originally a fortune-teller with knowledge of astronomy. He believed Hebei had the aura of a Son of Heaven. Liu Lin, son of King Mu of Zhao, was a chivalrous man with connections to powerful figures, and Wang Chang befriended him. After Wang Mang usurped the throne and killed a man claiming to be Liu Ziyu, son of Emperor Cheng, Wang Lang falsely claimed to be the true son. He fabricated a story about his mother, a singer who became the emperor's consort, and his escape with a doctor. Liu Lin and others, including Li Yu and Zhang Shen, conspired to support Wang Lang. In December of the first year of Gengshi, they entered Handan, made Wang Lang emperor, and appointed Liu Lin as Prime Minister, Li Yu as Grand Sima, and Zhang Shen as General. They sent proclamations to prefectures, declaring Wang Lang as Liu Ziyu and calling for support. Wang Lang's claims gained traction, and much of northern China submitted to him.

================================================================================

Summary line 1
Span: 24-68 (score=0.6316)

original:
于是赵国以北，辽东以西，皆从风而靡。
明年，光武自蓟得郎檄，南走信都，发兵徇帝县，遂攻柏人，不下。
议者以为守柏人不如定巨鹿，光武乃引兵东北围巨鹿。
郎太守王饶据城，数十日连攻不克。
耿纯说曰： 久守王饶，士众疲敝，不如及大兵精锐，进攻邯郸。
若王郎已诛，王饶不战自服矣。 光武善其计，乃留将军邓满守巨鹿，而进军邯郸，屯其郭北门。
郎数出战不利，乃使其谏议大夫杜威持节请降。
威雅称郎实成帝遗体。
光武曰： 设使成帝复生，天下不可得，况诈子舆者乎！ 威请求万户侯。
光武曰： 顾得全身可矣。 威曰： 邯郸虽鄙，并力固守，尚旷日月，终不君臣相率但全身而已。 遂辞而去。
因急攻之，二十余日，郎少傅李立为反间，开门内汉兵，遂拔邯郸。
郎夜亡走，道死，追斩之。
刘永者，梁郡睢阳人，梁孝王八世孙也。
传国至父立。
元始中，立与平帝外家卫氏交通，为王莽所诛。
更始即位，永先诣洛阳，绍封为梁王，都睢阳。永闻更始政乱，遂据国起兵，以弟防为辅国大将军，防弟少公御史大夫，封鲁王。
遂招诸豪杰沛人周建等，并署为将帅，攻下齐阴、山阴、沛、楚、淮阳、汝南，凡得二十八城。
又遣使拜西防贼帅山阳佼彊为横行将军。
是时，东海人董宪起兵据其郡，而张步亦定齐地。
永遣使拜宪翼汉大将军、步辅汉大将军，与共连兵，遂专据东方。
及更始败，永自称天子。
建武二年夏，光武遣虎牙大将军盖延等伐永。
初，陈留人苏茂为更始讨难将军，与朱鲔等守洛阳。
鲔既降汉，茂亦归命，光武因使茂与盖延俱攻永。军中不相能，茂遂反，杀淮阳太守，掠得数县。据广乐而臣于永。
永以茂为大司马、淮阳王。
盖延遂围睢阳，数月，拔之，永将家属走虞。
虞人反，杀其母及妻子，永与麾下数十人奔谯。
苏茂。佼彊、周建合军救永，为盖延所败，茂奔还广乐，彊、建从永走保湖陵。
三年春，永遣使立张步为齐王，董宪为海西王。
于是遣大司马吴汉等围苏茂于广乐，周建率众救茂，茂、建战败，弃城复还湖陵，而睢阳人反城迎永。
吴汉与盖延等合军围之，城中食尽，永与茂、建走酂。
诸将追急，永将庆吾斩永首降，封吾为列侯。
苏茂、周建奔垂惠，共立永子纡为梁王。
佼彊还保西防。
四年秋，遣捕虏将军马武、骑都尉王霸围纡、建于垂惠，苏茂将五校兵救之，纡、建亦出兵与武等战，不克，而建兄子诵反，闭城门拒之。
建、茂、纡等皆走，建于道死，茂奔下邳与董宪合，纡奔佼彊。
五年，遣骠骑大将军杜茂攻佼彊于西防，彊与刘纡奔董宪。
时，平狄将军庞萌反叛，遂袭破盖延，引兵与董宪连和，自号东平王，屯桃乡之北。
庞萌，山阳人。
初亡命在下江兵中。
更始立，以为冀州牧，将兵属尚书令谢躬，共破王郎。
及躬败，萌乃归降，光武即位，以为侍中。
萌为人逊顺，甚见信爱。
帝常称曰： 可以托六尺之孤，寄百里之命者，庞萌是也。 拜为平狄将军，与盖延共击董宪。
时，诏书独下延而不及萌，萌以为延谮己，自疑，遂反。

translation:
So the north of Zhao and the west of Liaodong were invincible.
The next year, Guangwu received Wang Lang's letter from Jixian and rushed to Xindu. He sent troops to attack the next county and then turned to attack Bairen, but failed to capture it.
The people who discussed it thought that besieging the Bai people was not as good as pacifying Julu, so Guangwu led his troops to the northeast to besiege Julu.
Wang Lang's prefect, Wang Rao, defended the city and could not defeat it for dozens of days.
Geng Chun suggested: After besieging Wang Rao for a long time, the soldiers are exhausted, so it is better to attack Handan with a large number of elite soldiers.
If Wang Lang is killed, Wang Rao can surrender without a fight. Guangwu thought this was a good plan, so he left General Deng Man to surround Julu, led his army to attack Handan, and stationed troops at the north gate of the city.
Wang Lang sent troops several times but failed, so he sent his admonishment doctor Duwei to hold the talisman to ask Guangwu to surrender.
Dewey pretended that Wang Lang was actually the biological son of Emperor Cheng.
Guangwu said: Even if the emperor is resurrected, it will not be available to the world, let alone someone who pretends to be Ziyu! Dewey requested that he be granted the title of Marquis of Wanhu.
Guangwu said: As long as we can save his life. Dewey said: Although Handan is a small country, if it tries its best to hold on, it can still hold on for a long time, but it cannot be done to save lives. So he resigned.
Guangwu rushed to attack. After more than 20 days, Wang Lang Shaofu Li Li rebelled and opened the city gate to welcome the Han soldiers, so he attacked Handan.
Wang Lang fled at night and went on a dead end, and was killed by the pursuers.
Liu Yong, a native of Suiyang, Liang County, is the eighth generation grandson of King Xiao of Liang.
It is said that Liu Yong's father, Liu Li, was ennobled.
In the beginning of the Yuan Dynasty, Liu Li had contacts with the Wei family of Emperor Ping's family, and was killed by Wang Mang.
When Gengshi came to the throne, Liu Yong went to Luoyang first, was succeeded as King of Liang, and made his capital Suiyang. Liu Yong heard that Gengshi was in political chaos, so he raised troops based on the feudal city, and appointed his younger brother Liu Fang as the auxiliary general.
So he summoned all the heroes from Pei, Zhou Jian and others, and served as generals at the same time, and captured Jiyin, Shanyang, Pei, Chu, Huaiyang, and Runan, and captured twenty-eight cities in total.
He also sent envoys to worship Shanyang Jiaoqiang, the bandit commander in the west, as General Hengxing.
At this time, Dong Xian, a native of Donghai, raised troops and occupied Donghai County, and Zhang Bu also pacified Qi.
Liu Yong sent envoys to worship Dong Xian as the general of the Yi Han Dynasty, and Zhang Bu as the general of the auxiliary Han Dynasty. They joined forces with them, so they separated the east.
Later, the reform failed, and Liu Yong proclaimed himself emperor.
In the summer of the second year of Jianwu, Guangwu sent Huya General Gai Yan and others to attack Liu Yong.
At first, Su Mao, a native of Chenliu, attacked the general for the purpose of reform and guarded Luoyang with Zhu Tuna and others.
After Zhu Jun surrendered to the Han Dynasty, Su Mao also returned to Guangwu. Guangwu sent Su Mao and Gai Yan to attack Liu Yong together. When there was disharmony among the troops, Su Mao rebelled, killed the governor of Huaiyang, plundered several counties, occupied Guangle and declared himself a vassal to Liu Yong.
Liu Yong took Su Mao as the Grand Sima and King of Huaiyang.
Gai Yan then besieged Suiyang for several months and captured Suiyang. Liu Yong and his family fled Yu County.
The Yu people rebelled and killed Liu Yong's mother, wife and children. Liu Yong and dozens of his men fled to Qiao County.
Su Mao, Jiaoqiang, and Zhou Jian joined forces to rescue Liu Yong, but were defeated by Gai Yan. Su Mao rushed back to Guangle, while Jiaoqiang and Zhou Jian followed Liu Yong to protect Huling.
In the spring of the third year of Jianwu, Liu Yong sent envoys to establish Zhang Bu as King of Qi and Dong Xian as King of Haixi.
Guangwu then sent Grand Sima Wu Han and others to surround Su Mao in Guangle. Zhou Jian led his troops to rescue Su Mao. Sum Mao and Zhou Jian were defeated, abandoned Guangle City and returned to Huling, while the Suiyang people in turn gathered the city to welcome Liu Yong.
Wu Han, Gai Yan and other combined forces surrounded Suiyang and the city ran out of food. Liu Yong, Su Mao and Zhou Jian fled to Zanhuang County.
The generals pursued him urgently. Liu Yong beheaded Qingwu and surrendered. Qingwu was granted the title of lord.
Su Mao and Zhou Jian fled to Chuihui and jointly established Liu Yong's son Liu Yu as King of Liang.
Jiaoqiang fled back to the west to defend himself.
In the autumn of the fourth year of Jianwu, Guangwu sent the captured general Ma Wu and the cavalry captain Wang Ba to surround Liu Yu and Zhou Jian in Chuihui. Su Mao led five soldiers to rescue them. Liu Yu and Zhou Jian also sent troops to fight Ma Wu and others, but they were defeated. However, Zhou Jian's nephew Zhou Song rebelled and closed the city gates to resist.
Su Mao, Zhou Jian, and Liu Yu all fled. Zhou Jian died on the road. Su Mao fled to Xiapi to join Dong Xian, and Liu Yu became the best.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Guangwu sent General Du Mao to attack Jiaoqiang and defend against the west. Jiaoqiang and Liu Yu fled to Dong Xian.
At this time, General Pang Meng of Pingdi rebelled, so he conquered Gaiyan, led his troops to join forces with Dong Xian, named himself King Dongping, and stationed troops in the north of Taoxiang.
Pang Meng is from Shanyang.
At first, he died among the soldiers in Xiajiang.
Gengshi ascended the throne and appointed him as the shepherd of Jizhou, and ordered him to lead the army under the command of Shangshu Ling Xie Gong to defeat Wang Lang.
After Xie Gong failed, Pang Meng surrendered. Guangwu ascended the throne and made him his attendant.
Pang Meng was humble and docile, and was loved by Guangwu.
Guangwu often praised and said: "The person who can entrust an underage orphan with a mission is Pang Meng." He was worshiped as General Pingdi and jointly attacked Dong Xian with Gai Yan.
At this time, the edict was only issued to Gai Yan but not to Pang Meng. Pang Meng thought that Gai Yan had said bad things about him, so he became suspicious and rebelled.

summary:
The next year, Guangwu attacked Wang Lang, besieging Julu and then Handan. Wang Lang sent Du Wei to negotiate, claiming to be the true son of Emperor Cheng, but Guangwu refused. After a 20-day siege, Li Li, Wang Lang's Shaofu, rebelled and opened the city gates. Wang Lang fled but was killed. Liu Yong, an eighth-generation grandson of King Xiao of Liang, was enfeoffed after Gengshi's ascension. He raised troops, captured 28 cities, and allied with Dong Xian and Zhang Bu. After Gengshi's failure, Liu Yong proclaimed himself emperor. Guangwu sent Gai Yan to attack Liu Yong. Su Mao, initially serving Gengshi, surrendered to Guangwu but later rebelled and joined Liu Yong. Gai Yan besieged Suiyang, capturing it, but Liu Yong fled. After several battles, Liu Yong was killed, and his son Liu Yu was briefly established as king before being defeated. Dong Xian and Pang Meng also rebelled but were eventually killed. Zhang Bu, from Langfu, gathered troops and declared himself General Wuwei. He allied with Liu Yong and later killed Fulong, Guangwu's envoy. Guangwu attacked Zhang Bu, who was defeated and surrendered, but later fled and was killed.

================================================================================

Summary line 2
Span: 201-245 (score=0.5014)

original:
夷其宗族。
卢芳字君期，安定三水人入，居左谷中。
王莽时，天下咸思汉德，芳由是诈自称武帝曾孙刘文伯。
曾祖母匈奴谷蠡浑邪王之姊为武帝皇后，生三子。
遭江充之乱，太子诛，皇后坐死，中子次卿亡之长陵，小子回卿逃于左谷。
霍将军立次卿，迎回卿。
回卿不出，因居左谷，生子孙卿，孙卿生文伯。
常以是言诳惑安定间。
王莽末，乃与三水属国羌胡起兵。
更始至长安，征芳为骑都尉，使镇抚安定以西。
更始败，三水豪杰共计议，以芳刘氏子孙，宜承宗庙，乃共立芳为上将军、西平王，使使与西羌、匈奴结和亲。
单于曰： 匈怒本与汉约为兄弟。
后匈奴中衰，呼韩邪单于归汉，汉为发兵拥护，世世称臣。
今汉亦中绝，刘氏来归我，亦当立之，令尊事我。 乃使句林王将数千骑迎芳，芳与兄禽、弟程俱入匈奴。
单于遂立芳为汉帝。
以程为中郎将，将胡骑还入安定。
初，五原人李兴、随昱，朔方人田飒，代郡人石鲔、闵堪，各起兵自称将军。
建武四年，单于遣无楼且渠王入五原塞，与李兴等和亲，告兴欲令芳还汉地为帝。
五年，李兴、闵堪引兵至单于庭迎芳，与俱入塞，都九原县。
掠有五原、朔方、云中、定襄、雁门五郡，并置守令，与胡通兵，侵苦北边。
六年，芳将军贾览将胡骑击杀代郡太守刘兴。
芳后以事诛其五原太守李兴兄弟，而其朔方太守田飒、云中太守桥扈恐惧，叛芳，举郡降，光武令领职如故。
后大司马吴汉、骠骑大将军杜茂数击芳，并不克。
十二年，芳与贾览共攻云中，久不下，其将随昱留守九原，欲胁芳降。
芳知羽翼外附，心膂内离，遂弃辎重，与十余骑亡入匈奴，其众尽归随昱。
昱乃随使者程恂诣阙。拜昱为五原太守，封镌胡侯，昱弟宪武进侯。
十六年，芳复入居高柳，与闵堪兄林使使请降。
乃立芳为代王，堪为代相，林为代太傅，赐缯二万匹，因使和集匈奴。
芳上疏谢曰： 臣芳过托先帝遗体，弃在边陲。社稷遭王莽废绝，以是子孙之忧，所宜共诛，故遂西连羌戎，北怀匈奴。
单于不忘旧德，权立救助，是时兵革并起，往往而在。
臣非敢有所贪觊，期于奉承宗庙，兴立社稷，是以久僣号位，十有余年，罪宜万死。
陛下圣德高明，躬率众贤，海内宾服，惠及殊俗。
以胏附之故，赦臣芳罪，加以仁恩，封为代王，使备北藩。
无以报塞重责，冀必欲和辑匈奴，不敢遗余力，负恩贷。
谨奉天子玉玺，思望阙庭。 诏报芳朝明年正月。
其冬，芳入朝，南及昌平，有诏止，令更朝明岁。
芳自道还，忧恐，乃复背叛，遂反，与闵堪、闵林相攻连月。
匈妈遣数百骑迎芳及妻子出塞。
论曰：传称 盛德必百世祀 ，孔子曰 宽则得众 。夫能得众心，则百世不忘矣。
观更始之际，刘氏之遗恩余烈，英雄岂能抗之哉！
然则知高祖、孝文之宽仁，结于人心深矣。
周人之思邵公，爱其甘棠，又况其子孙哉！
刘氏之再受命，盖以此乎！
若数子者，岂有国之远图哉！
因时扰攘，苟瓷纵而已耳，然犹以附假宗室，能掘强岁月之间。观其智略，固无足以惮汉祖，发其英灵者也。

translation:
Peng Chong's clan was wiped out.
Lu Fang, whose courtesy name was Junqi, was from Sanshui County, Anding County, and lived in Zuoguzhong.
During the reign of Wang Mang, everyone in the world missed Han De, so Lu Fang falsely claimed that she was Liu Wenbo, the great-grandson of Emperor Wu.
It is said that the sister of the great-grandmother Hunxie King of Xiongnu Guli was the Empress of Emperor Wu and gave birth to three sons.
During the Jiang Chong Rebellion, the prince was killed, the queen was convicted and died, the middle son Ciqing fled to Changling, and the boy Huiqing fled to Zuogu.
General Huo made him a second minister and welcomed him back.
Hui Qing could not leave, so he lived in Zuogu and gave birth to a son, Sun Qing, who had a son, Wen Bo.
Lu Fang often used these words to deceive and confuse Anding.
At the end of Wang Mang's reign, he started an army with the Qiang and Hu from the state of Sanshui.
Gengshi arrived in Chang'an and recruited Lu Fang as the cavalry captain to calm him and pacify the west of Anding.
After the failure of Gengshi, the heroes of Sanshui jointly decided that Lu Fang was a descendant of the Liu family and should inherit the ancestral temple. So they jointly appointed Lu Fang as the general and king of Xiping, and sent envoys to make peace with the Western Qiang and Xiongnu.
Shanyu said: The Xiongnu and the Han were originally brothers.
Later, when the Xiongnu weakened, Huhanxie Shanyu surrendered to the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty sent troops to protect him, and the Shanyu became a vassal for all generations.
Now that Han Zuo has been defeated, and the Liu family has returned to me, I should also establish him and let him respect me. So he sent King Julin to lead thousands of horses to meet Lu Fang. Lu Fang, his brother Lu Qin, and his brother Lu Cheng all went to the Xiongnu.
The Chanyu established Lu Fang as Emperor of the Han Dynasty.
With Lu Cheng as the Zhonglang general, he led the Huns cavalry back to Anding.
At first, Li Xing and Sui Yu from Wuyuan, Tian Sa from Shuofang, and Shi Tun and Min Kan from Daijun each raised their own troops and called themselves generals.
In the fourth year of Jianwu, Shanyu sent King Wulou Qiequ to Wuyuan fortress to make peace with Li Xing and others, and told Li Xing that he wanted to make Lu Fang return to the Han Dynasty and become the emperor of the Han Dynasty.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Li Xing and Min Kan led troops to the Shanyu Courtyard to welcome Lu Fang, and they entered the fortress together and made Jiuyuan County their capital.
The five counties of Wuyuan, Shuofang, Yunzhong, Dingxiang and Yanmen were plundered. They all set up prefectures and magistrates, and fought with the Xiongnu. The northern frontier was invaded and suffered.
In the sixth year of Jianwu, Lu Fang's general Jia Lan led Hu Qi to kill Liu Xing, the prefect of Daijun.
Lu Fang later executed the brothers Li Xing, the prefect of Wuyuan, so that Tian Sa, the prefect of Shuofang, and Qiao Hu, the prefect of Yunzhong, were frightened, rebelled against Lu Fang, and surrendered with the whole county. Guangwu ordered them to remain the prefects of the original county as before.
Later, Grand Sima Wu Han and Hussar General Du Mao attacked Lu Fang several times, but failed to conquer it.
In the twelfth year of Jianwu's reign, Lu Fang and Jia Lan jointly attacked Yunzhong, but could not capture it for a long time. Their general Sui Yu stayed in Jiuyuan, hoping to force Lu Fang to surrender.
Lu Fang knew that his subordinates were affiliated with the Han Dynasty and that their confidants were rebelling from within, so he abandoned his baggage and fled to the Xiongnu with more than ten cavalry. All his subordinates joined Sui Yu.
Sui Yu then went to the capital with his envoy Cheng Xun. Emperor Guangwu worshiped Sui Yu as the governor of Wuyuan, granted him the title of Marquis of Hu, and followed his younger brother Sui Xian as the Marquis of Wujin.
In the 16th year of Jianwu's reign, Lu Fang returned to Gaoliu County and sent an envoy to Min Kan's brother Min Lin to request his surrender.
The emperor then appointed Lu Fang as the acting king, Min Kan as the acting prime minister, and Min Lin as the acting Taifu. He gave him 20,000 pieces of silk, so that he could live in peace with the Xiongnu.
Lu Fang Shangshu Xie En said: My minister Lu Fang entrusted me with the late emperor's body, which was abandoned at the border. The Han Dynasty Sheji was abolished by Wang Mang. This is the worry of the descendants of the Liu family. They should rise up and kill the national traitors together. Therefore, I am connected with the Qiang Rong in the west and the Xiongnu in the north.
The Shanyu does not forget his old virtues, and he has the right to appoint me to help him. At that time, there were wars and revolutions everywhere.
I dare not be greedy and covet, but only hope to flatter the ancestral temple and establish the state. Therefore, I have usurped the title of Han Emperor for more than ten years. This is a crime worthy of death.
Your Majesty has great virtues and virtues. He personally leads the virtuous people. He surrenders to you at home and his favor extends to distant places.
For the sake of relatives, forgive my sins, show me kindness, make me acting king, and order me to guard the northern border.
There is no way to repay the heavy responsibility, but I hope that I can live in harmony with the Xiongnu to live up to the divine grace.
I would like to dedicate the emperor's jade seal to worship in the palace. The imperial edict ordered Lu Fang to enter the court in the first month of the next year.
In the winter of this year, Lu Fang entered the court and went south to Changping County. He was issued an edict to stop his journey and ordered him to come back next year.
Lu Fang had no choice but to return where he was. Feeling depressed and frightened, he betrayed him again and fought against Min Kan and Min Lin for months.
The Huns sent hundreds of horses to welcome Lu Fang and his wife out of the fortress.
Lu Fang stayed among the Huns for more than ten years and died of illness. The historian commented: It is said that people with great virtues will last for generations. Confucius said: If you are tolerant, you will win people's hearts. If you can win people's hearts, you will not be forgotten for a hundred generations.
We see that in the era of reform, the Liu family’s legacy remains. Who can resist a hero?
In this way, we can know how deep the kindness of Gaozu and Xiaowen is in people's hearts.
The people of the Zhou Dynasty missed Shaogong because Shaogong once heard about Gantang and did not cut it or cut it down, let alone his descendants.
This is probably why the Liu family was revived.
Do people like Wang, Liu, Zhang, Li, Peng, and Lu have the foresight to serve their country?
They were just taking advantage of the situation and doing random things, but they were able to show off their strength in the name of the fake Liu clan. Judging from their wisdom and strategy, it was not enough to scare the emperor of the Han Dynasty and inspire his heroic spirit!

summary:
Li Xian, from Xuchang, declared himself King of Huainan and later emperor. Guangwu attacked and captured Shu County, leading to Li Xian's death. Peng Chong, from Wan County, served as a county official and later fled to Yuyang. He supported Guangwu but became resentful when his rewards were insufficient. He rebelled, attacked Zhufu, and allied with the Xiongnu. He declared himself King of Yan but was killed by his servants. Lu Fang, from Sanshui, falsely claimed to be Liu Wenbo, a descendant of Emperor Wu. He allied with the Xiongnu and declared himself emperor. He fought with Guangwu's forces but eventually surrendered, though he later rebelled again and died among the Xiongnu. The historian comments that the Liu family's legacy endured due to the deep kindness of Gaozu and Xiaowen, and that the rebels like Wang, Liu, Zhang, Li, Peng, and Lu merely took advantage of the situation without true foresight or strategy.

================================================================================

