Summary uses chunk [0, 2, 4, 9, 13, 16, 27, 32]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝武皇帝，景帝中子也，母曰王美人。年四岁立为胶东王。
七岁为皇太子，母为皇后。
十六岁，后三年正月，景帝崩。
甲子，太子即皇帝位，尊皇太后窦氏曰太皇太后，皇后曰皇太后。
三月，封皇太后同母弟田蚡、胜皆为列侯。
建元元年冬十月，诏丞相、御史、列侯、中二千石、二千石、诸侯相举贤良方正直言极谏之士。
丞相绾奏： 所举贤良，或治申、商、韩非、苏秦、张仪之言，乱国政，请皆罢。
奏可。
春二月，赦天下。赐民爵一级。
年八十复二算，九十复甲卒。
行三铢钱。
夏四月己巳，诏曰： 古之立孝，乡里以齿，朝廷以爵，扶世导民，莫善于德。
然即于乡里先耆艾，奉高年，古之道也。
今天下孝子、顺孙愿自竭尽以承其亲，外迫公事，内乏资财，是以孝心阙焉，朕甚哀之。
民年九十以上，已有受鬻法，为复子若孙，令得身帅妻妾遂其供养之事。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaowu Liu Che was the second son of Emperor Jing. His mother was Wang Meiren, who was made King of Jiaodong when she was four years old.
At the age of seven, he was made crown prince, and his mother was made queen.
At the age of sixteen, in the first month of the third year after Emperor Jing, Emperor Jing died.
On the twenty-seventh day of the first lunar month, the prince succeeded to the throne of the emperor, and the empress dowager Dou was honored as the empress dowager, and the empress was the empress dowager.
In March, the Empress Dowager and her brothers Tian Chongfen and Tian Sheng were made marquises.
In the tenth month of the winter of the first year of Jianyuan, the prime minister, censors, princes, and princes were ordered to recommend virtuous and upright people who can give the most honest advice.
Prime Minister Wei Wan reported: If any of the recommended virtuous people make remarks about Shen Buhai, Shang Yang, Han Fei, Su Qin, or Zhang Yi, which would confuse the state affairs, please stop them.
The emperor agreed.
In the second month of spring, the world will be pardoned and the people will be rewarded with one level of nobility.
Those who are over eighty years old are exempted from taxes for two members of the family, and those who are over ninety years old are exempted from taxes for the whole family.
Issue three baht coins.
On the ninth day of April in the summer of the first year of Jianyuan, an edict was issued saying: According to the ancient rules, age is the most important thing in the countryside, and title is the most important thing in the court. In governing the country and educating the people, virtue must be given a prominent position.
It can be said that respecting the elders and caring for the elderly in the countryside has been a principle since ancient times.
Today, filial sons and grandsons in the world are willing to do their best to support their elders. However, they are forced by external affairs and lack of financial resources internally. Therefore, it seems that filial piety is missing. I deeply sympathize with them.
When people are over ninety years old, the court has a system of making porridge and rice with rice and millet. Now it is added that his sons or grandsons are exempted from corvee service, so that they can lead their wives to fulfill their responsibility of supporting the elderly.

summary:
summary line 0: Emperor Xiaowu Liu Che, the second son of Emperor Jing, was born to Wang Meiren. At age four, he was made King of Jiaodong, and at seven, he became crown prince. At sixteen, in the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, his father died, and Liu Che succeeded the throne. He honored Empress Dowager Dou and his mother as empress dowagers, and granted marquis titles to his maternal uncles. In the first year of Jianyuan, he ordered officials to recommend virtuous and upright individuals, but Prime Minister Wei Wan advised against promoting those who studied Legalist or strategist philosophies, which the emperor approved. He pardoned the world, rewarded the people, exempted taxes for the elderly, and issued three-baht coins. Edicts emphasized respect for elders, exempted families of those over ninety from corvée, and improved sacrifices to rivers and seas. He pardoned first offenders in the Seven Kingdoms Rebellion, reduced palace guards, opened horse-breeding gardens to the poor, and planned to build a Mingtang. He summoned the scholar Lu Shen Gong.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
未至，闽越走，兵还。九月丙子晦，日有蚀之。四年夏，有风赤如血。
六月，旱。秋九月，有星孛于东北。
五年春，罢三铢钱，行半两钱。
置《五经》博士。
夏四月，平原君薨。
五月，大蝗。
秋八月，广川王越、清河王乘皆薨。
六年春二月乙未，辽东高庙灾。
夏四月壬子，高园便殿火。
上素服五日。
五月丁亥，太皇太后崩。
秋八月，有星孛于东方，长竟天。
闽越王郢攻南越。遣大行王恢将兵出豫章、大司农韩安国出会稽击之，未至，越人杀郢降，兵还。
元光元年冬十一月，初令郡国举孝廉各一人。
卫尉李广为骁骑将军屯云中，中尉程不识为车骑将军屯雁门，六月罢。
translation: 
The Fujian and Yue soldiers besieged Dong Ou, and Dong Ou asked the Han court for help. The emperor sent Yan, a senior official, to assist him and mobilize the troops stationed in Kuaiji to float to the sea to rescue Dong Ou. Before the soldiers arrived, Minyue retreated. September 2nd, partial solar eclipse. In the summer of the fourth year, a wind blew up the red dust, which was as red as blood.
In June, there was a severe drought, and in autumn and September, comets appeared in the northeast.
In the spring of the fifth year, three baht coins were abolished and half a liang coin was issued.
Set up Doctor of the Five Classics.
In April of summer, the emperor's grandmother Pingyuan Jun passed away.
In May, a major locust plague occurred.
In the eighth month of autumn, King Liu Yue of Guangchuan and King Liu Cheng of Qinghe both died.
On the third day of February in the sixth year of spring, there was a fire in the Gaozu Temple in Liaodong.
On April 21st in the summer, a fire broke out in the Gaoyuan Bedroom.
The emperor wore plain clothes and blamed himself for five days.
On May 26, the Empress Dowager passed away.
In autumn and August, the comet appears in the east for a long time.
When King Ying of Minyue attacked South Vietnam, the imperial court sent Daxing Wang Hui to lead troops out of Yuzhang, and Da Sinong Han Anguo to lead troops out of Kuaiji to prepare for a counterattack. Before the soldiers arrived, the Yue people killed Ying and surrendered. Wang, Han and others withdrew their troops.
In the winter and November of the first year of Yuanguang, the county began to recommend one person each for Xiao and Lian.
Wei Lieutenant Li Guang stationed troops at Yunzhong as General Chao Cavalry, and Lieutenant Cheng Bushi stationed troops at Yanmen as General Chao Cavalry. They withdrew their troops in June.

summary:
summary line 1: In the second year, officials Zhao Wan and Wang Zang committed suicide for failing to report to the Empress Dowager, and Prime Minister Dou Ying and Taiwei Tian Chong were dismissed. A partial solar eclipse occurred, and a night was as bright as day. Maoling-eup was established. In the third year, the Yellow River flooded, causing famine and cannibalism. Residents moving to Maoling received funds and land. A comet appeared in the northwest. King Liu Ming of Jichuan was deposed for murder. Minyue besieged Dong Ou, but Han forces caused their retreat. In the fourth year, red dust blew, drought struck, and comets appeared. In the fifth year, three-baht coins were abolished, half-liang coins issued, and Doctors of the Five Classics established. The emperor's grandmother died, locusts plagued, and two kings died. In the sixth year, fires at Gaozu Temple and Gaoyuan Bedroom led the emperor to blame himself. The Empress Dowager died, and a comet appeared. Minyue attacked South Vietnam, but the Yue people killed their king and surrendered.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
边境被害，朕甚闵之。
今欲举兵攻之，何如？
大行王恢建议宜击。
夏六月，御史大夫韩安国为护军将军，卫尉李广为骁骑将军，太仆公孙贺为轻车将军，大行王恢为将屯将军，太中大夫李息为材官将军，将三十万众屯马邑谷中，诱致单于，欲袭击之。
单于入塞，觉之，走出。
六月，军罢。
将军王恢坐首谋不进，下狱死。
秋九月，令民大酺五日。
三年春，河水徙，从顿丘东南流入勃海。
夏五月，封高祖功臣五人后为列侯。
河水决濮阳，泛郡十六。发卒十万救决河。起龙渊宫。
四年冬，魏其侯窦婴有罪，弃市。
春三月乙卯，丞相蚡薨。
夏四月，陨霜杀草。
五月，地震。赦天下。
五年春正月，河间王德薨。
夏，发巴、蜀治南夷道。又发卒万人治雁门阻险。
秋七月，大风拔木。
translation: 
I am deeply disturbed by the murders at the border.
Now I want to send troops to attack, what do you think?
Daxing Wang Hui suggested that we should attack.
In the sixth month of the summer, Han Anguo, the imperial censor, was appointed as the guard general, Weiwei Li Guang was the heroic cavalry general, Sun He, the great servant, was the light chariot general, Daxing Wang Hui was the general general, and the great official Li Xi was the caiguan general. They stationed 300,000 people in the valley of Mayi. They wanted to lure Shan Yu into the fortress and launched an attack unexpectedly.
After Shanyu entered the fortress, he immediately exited when he noticed something strange.
In June, withdraw troops.
General Wang Hui committed the crime of "not advancing the plan" and was imprisoned and died.
In the ninth month of autumn, the whole country was ordered to drink alcohol for five days to comfort the farmers.
In the spring of the third year, the Yellow River moved and flowed from the southeast of Dunqiu into the Bohai Sea.
In the fifth month of summer, five of Gaozu's meritorious officials were granted the title of marquis.
The Yellow River burst in Puyang and flooded sixteen counties. One hundred thousand soldiers were mobilized to block the floods for disaster relief, and Longyuan Palace was built.
In the winter of the fourth year, Wei Qihou Dou Ying was found guilty and his head was hung in public.
On the seventeenth day of the third lunar month in the spring, Prime Minister Chong died.
In April of summer, severe frost damaged crops.
In May, there was an earthquake and the world was forgiven.
In the first month of spring of the fifth year, Wang De of Hejian passed away.
In the summer, corvees from Bashu were recruited to build Nanyi Avenue, and tens of thousands of soldiers were mobilized to build Yanmen Pass.
In autumn and July, strong wind uproots trees.

summary:
summary line 2: In the first year of Yuanguang, counties recommended one filial and incorrupt person each. Generals Li Guang and Cheng Bushi withdrew troops. The emperor pardoned the world and restored clans of the Seven Kingdoms. He issued an edict praising ancient rulers and seeking advice, leading to the rise of Dong Zhongshu and Gongsun Hong. In the second year, the emperor worshipped the Five Emperors and discussed attacking the Xiongnu. Generals stationed 300,000 troops at Mayi to lure the Xiongnu Chanyu, but he escaped. General Wang Hui died in prison. In the third year, the Yellow River changed course, and five meritorious officials were made marquises. Flooding in Puyang led to disaster relief. In the fourth year, Dou Ying was executed, Prime Minister Chong died, frost damaged crops, and an earthquake occurred. In the fifth year, King Wang De of Hejian died, roads were built, and Queen Chen was deposed. Talented individuals were recruited. In the sixth year, taxes on merchants' vehicles began. The Xiongnu invaded, and General Wei Qing captured 700 heads, while Gongsun Ao and Li Guang were defeated. The emperor pardoned soldiers for disciplinary violations.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
三月乙亥晦，日有蚀之。
夏，募民徙朔方十万口。
又徙郡国豪杰及訾三百万以上于茂陵。
秋，燕王定国有罪，自杀。
三年春，罢苍海郡。
三月，诏曰： 夫刑罚所以防奸也，内长文所以见爱也。以百姓之未洽于教化，朕嘉与士大夫日新厥业，祗而不解。
其赦天下。
夏，匈奴入代，杀太守；入雁门，杀略千余人。
六月庚午，皇太后崩。
秋，罢西南夷，城朔方城。
令民大酺五日。
四年冬，行幸甘泉。
夏，匈奴入代、定襄、上郡，杀略数千人。
五年春，大旱。
大将军卫青将六将军兵十余万人出朔方、高阙，获首虏万五千级。
夏六月，诏曰： 盖闻导民以礼，风之以乐。今礼坏乐崩，朕甚闵焉。
故详延天下方闻之士，咸荐诸朝。其令礼官劝学，讲议洽闻，举遗举礼，以为天下先。
translation: 
On March 30th, there was a partial solar eclipse.
In the summer, 100,000 people were recruited to migrate to Shuofang County.
They also moved the upper-class people of the county and households with assets of more than three million to Maoling.
In the autumn, King Yan committed suicide because he was guilty of the crime.
In the spring of the third year, the organizational structure of Canghai County was abolished.
In March, an edict was issued saying: Punishment is used to prevent adultery, and respect for virtue is to show the importance of talent. Today's people have not been cultivated in education, and I am happy to work with the scholar-bureaucrats to renew the Han Dynasty's imperial career, and to be respectful and unremitting.
Can forgive the world.
In summer, the Xiongnu invaded Dai and killed the prefect. Invading Yanmen, killing and plundering more than a thousand people.
On the second day of June, the Empress Dowager passed away.
In autumn, the conquest of the southwestern barbarians was exempted and Shuofang City was built.
The people of the country were ordered to drink alcohol for five days to comfort the people.
In the winter of the fourth year, I visited Ganquan.
In the summer, the Huns came to Dai, Dingxiang and Shangjun, killing and plundering thousands of people.
In the spring of the fifth year, a severe drought occurred.
General Wei Qing led six generals and more than 100,000 soldiers to set out at Shuofang and Gaoque, and captured more than 15,000 Xiongnu heads.
In the sixth month of the Xia Dynasty, an edict was issued saying: I once heard that people were taught to use etiquette and cultivated people to enjoy music. Nowadays, etiquette has become corrupted and music has collapsed. I am very sorry.
Therefore, the erudite and virtuous people gathered in Kyoto, and the ceremonial officials gave lectures. They collected and cited erudite texts, cited omitted articles, and promoted or destroyed rites, setting them as an example for the world.

summary:
summary line 3: In the first year of Shuo, the emperor issued edicts promoting virtue and talent, ordering officials to recommend filial and incorrupt individuals. Queen Wei was established. In the first year of Yuanshuo, the Xiongnu invaded, and Wei Qing captured thousands of heads. Dongyi submitted, and Canghai County was established. In the second year, the emperor granted titles to princes' sons. Wei Qing recovered Henan, establishing Shuofang and Wuyuan counties. People were moved to Shuofang and Maoling. In the third year, Canghai County was abolished, and the Xiongnu invaded Dai and Yanmen. The Empress Dowager died. In the fourth year, the emperor visited Ganquan. In the fifth year, drought struck, and Wei Qing captured over 15,000 Xiongnu heads. The emperor promoted education and set up doctoral disciples. In the sixth year, Wei Qing defeated the Xiongnu in the desert, but Zhao Xin surrendered and Su Jian fled. The emperor established martial arts reward officers.

Chunk 13: 
original: 
遣谒者劝有水灾郡种宿麦。举吏民能假贷贫民者以名闻。
减陇西、北地、上郡戍卒半。
发谪吏穿昆明池。
四年冬，有司言关东贫民徙陇西、北地、西河、上郡、会稽凡七十二万五千口，县官衣食振业，用度不足，请收银、锡造白金及皮币以足用。
初算缗钱。春，有星孛于东北。
夏，有长星出于西北。
大将军卫青将四将军出定襄，将军去病出代，各将五万骑。
步兵踵军后数十万人。
青至幕北围单于，斩首万九千级，至阗颜山乃还。
去病与左贤王战，斩获首虏七万余级，封狼居胥山乃还。
两军士死者数万人。
前将军广、后将军食其皆后期。广自杀，食其赎死。
五年春三月甲午，丞相李蔡有罪，自杀。
天下马少，平牡马，匹二十万。
罢半两钱，行五铢钱。
translation: 
Special envoys were sent to persuade flood-stricken counties to plant winter wheat, and a list of officials and people who could be tolerant and caring for the poor was recommended to the court.
Reduce half of the garrison troops in Longxi, Beidi, and Shangjun.
Officials who were punished for their crimes were sent to dig the Kunming Pool to practice water warfare.
In the winter of the fourth year, the official in charge reported that the poor people from Guandong had migrated to Longxi, totaling 725,000 people in Beidi, Xihe, Shangjun, and Kuaiji. The county magistrate wanted to provide food, clothing, and production for them, but the money was insufficient and asked for silver coins to be made into platinum coins and white deer skin coins to meet the national needs.
The system of taxing merchants and handicrafts at a rate of 20 to 40% of the value of their goods was implemented. In spring, a comet appears in the northeast.
In the summer of the fourth year of Yuanshou, a long star appeared in the northwest.
General Wei Qing led four generals out of Dingxiang, and General Huo Qubing came out, each with 50,000 cavalry.
The infantry was followed by the cavalry, followed by hundreds of thousands of people.
Wei Qing went to Mobei to besiege King Shanyu and beheaded 19,000 people. Return to the army in Tianyan Mountain.
Huo Qubing fought against King Zuoxian of the Xiongnu and beheaded more than 70,000 enemies. He carved stones in Langjuxu Mountain to commemorate his achievements and returned.
Tens of thousands of people died in the battle between the two armies.
Former general Li Guang and rear general Shi Qi both failed to arrive at the position as scheduled. Li Guang committed suicide and Shi Qi redeemed himself for the death penalty.
On March 11th in the spring of the fifth year, Prime Minister Li Cai committed suicide.
There are few horses in the world, and the price of a stallion has been raised to 200,000 yuan.
Half a tael of money was scrapped and five baht coins were issued.

summary:
summary line 4: In the first year of Yuanshou, the emperor obtained a white unicorn and wrote a song. Kings of Huainan and Hengshan rebelled and were executed. The crown prince was established. The emperor issued edicts rewarding filial piety and caring for the elderly. Generals Huo Qubing and Gongsun Ao captured thousands of Xiongnu heads. The Xiongnu king Kunxie surrendered, and Wuwei and Jiuquan counties were established. In the third year, a comet appeared, and the emperor pardoned the world. In the fourth year, Wei Qing and Huo Qubing defeated the Xiongnu in Mobei, with heavy casualties. Li Guang committed suicide. In the fifth year, half-liang coins were scrapped, and five-baht coins issued. In the sixth year, the emperor established princes and issued edicts on currency reform. He sent officials to inspect the country and relieve the needy.

Chunk 16: 
original: 
三年冬，徙函谷关于新安。以故关为弘农县。
十一月，令民告缗者以其半与之。
正月戊子，阳陵园火。
夏四月，雨雹，关东郡国十余饥，人相食。
常山王舜薨。子嗣立，有罪，废徙房陵。
四年冬十月，行幸雍，祠五畴。赐民爵一级，女子百户牛、酒。
行自夏阳，东幸汾阴。
十一月甲子，立后土祠于汾阴脽上。
礼毕，行幸荥阳。
还至洛阳，诏曰： 祭地翼州，瞻望河、洛，巡省豫州，观于周室，邈而无祀。
询问耆老，乃得孽子嘉。
其封嘉为周子南君，以奉周祀。
春二月，中山王胜薨。
夏，封方士栾大为乐通侯，位上将军。
六月，得宝鼎后土祠旁。
秋，马生渥洼水中。
作《宝鼎》、《天马》之歌。
立常山宪王子商为泗水王。
五年冬十月，行幸雍，祠五畴。
遂逾陇，登空同，西临祖厉河而还。
十一月辛巳朔旦，冬至。
立泰畤于甘泉。
translation: 
In the winter of the third year, Hangu was moved to Xin'an, and the original address was Hongnong County.
In November, it was ordered that anyone who exposed tax evasion would be rewarded with half of the amount they should pay.
In the spring of the third year of Yuanding, a fire broke out in Yanglingyuan.
In the summer of April, there was hail, and famine broke out in more than a dozen counties in Kanto, and cannibalism occurred.
When Liu Shun, the king of Changshan, passed away, his son Bo Xun succeeded him. He was found guilty and moved to Fangling.
In the winter and tenth month of the fourth year, I visited Yong and offered sacrifices to the Five Emperors. I was rewarded with the rank of baron, a hundred women, cattle, and some wine.
Depart from Xiayang and arrive at Fenyin.
On November 8, Hou Tu Temple was built on the east bank of Fenyin.
After the ceremony, we arrived at Xingyang.
Returning to the capital from Luoyang, he issued an edict: "The Queen's sacrifice will be carried out in Jizhou, and we will look at the Luoshui River of the Yellow River. We will inspect Yuzhou and inspect the old sites of the Zhou Dynasty. The Zhou temple has been closed for worship for a long time."
After asking the local elders, he found Ji Jia, a descendant of the Zhou Dynasty.
Now Jia is granted the title of Zhou Zinanjun to inherit Zhou's sacrifices.
In the second month of spring, Liu Sheng, the king of Zhongshan, passed away.
In the Xia Dynasty, Luan Da, a scholar of alchemy, was appointed Marquis of Letong and became a general.
In June, I got the tripod next to Houtu Temple.
In autumn, it is said that horses are born in Wowa water.
Composed the songs "Baoding" and "Tianma" to celebrate the occasion.
Prince Liu Shang of Changshan was made King of Surabaya.
In the winter of the fifth year and in the tenth month, I was lucky enough to go to Yong to offer sacrifices to the Five Emperors?
Then we crossed Longshan Mountain, ascended Tongshan Mountain in the sky, and returned to the Zuli River in the west.
On the first day of November, the winter solstice, Li Tai?
In Ganquan County.

summary:
summary line 5: In the first year of Yuanding, a tripod was found in the Fen River. In the second year, officials died, and Bailiang Terrace was built. Floods caused starvation. In the third year, the emperor moved Hangu and ordered tax evasion rewards. In the fourth year, he built Hou Tu Temple and granted titles to Zhou descendants. In the fifth year, he sacrificed to the sun and moon, found a tripod, and composed songs. In the sixth year, Nanyue rebelled, and the emperor sent generals to suppress it. The Western Qiang and Xiongnu invaded. In the first year of Yuanfeng, the emperor patrolled the border, shocking the Xiongnu. Dongyue submitted, and people were moved. He climbed Mount Song, built altars, and issued edicts on reforms.

Chunk 27: 
original: 
三年春二月，御史大夫王卿有罪，自杀。
初榷酒酤。
三月，行幸泰山，修封，祀明堂，因受计。
还幸北地，祠常山，瘗玄玉。
夏四月，赦天下。
行所过毋出田租。
秋，匈奴入雁门，太守坐畏愞弃市。
四年春正月，朝诸侯王于甘泉宫。发天下七科谪及勇敢士，遣贰师将军李广利将六万骑、步兵七万人出朔方，因杅将军公孙敖万骑、步兵三万人出雁门，游击将军韩说步兵三万人出五原，强弩都尉路博德步兵万余人与贰师会。
广利与单于战余吾水上连日，敖与左贤王战不利，皆引还。
夏四月，立皇子髆为昌邑王。
秋九月，令死罪入赎钱五十万减死一等。
太始元年春正月，因杅将军敖有罪，要斩。
徙郡、国吏民豪桀于茂陵、云陵。
夏六月，赦天下。
translation: 
In the spring and March of the third year, Wang Qing, the imperial censor, committed suicide.
For the first time, official sales of alcohol were stipulated.
In March, I traveled to Mount Tai and held a solemn sacrifice. The ceremony was held in the Mingtang, which was planned by various places.
When he returned to the court, he traveled to the north, offered sacrifices to Changshan, and buried a piece of black jade.
In April of summer, forgive the world.
Those who pass through will be exempted from land tax for one year.
In autumn, the Xiongnu invaded Yanmen Pass, and the prefect of Yanmen was executed for not advancing in fear of the enemy.
In the first month of the spring of the fourth year, all princes and kings met with Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty at Ganquan Palace, and recruited brave men who had committed various crimes and were willing to redeem themselves. He sent General Li Guangli of the Second Division to lead 60,000 cavalry and 70,000 infantry out of Shuofang. General Muyu Gongsun Ao led 10,000 cavalry and 30,000 infantry out of Yanmen Pass. He sent guerrilla general Han Yuo to lead 30,000 infantry out of Wuyuan. He sent strong crossbow general Duwei Lubode to lead more than 10,000 infantry to join forces with the general of the Second Division.
General Li Guangli fought with the Xiongnu King Shanyu for several days at the Yuwu waterfront. General Gongsun Ao lost the battle with the Xiongnu King Zuoxian and both withdrew their troops and returned to the court.
In the fourth month of summer, Prince Kun was made king of Changyi.
In the ninth month of autumn, it was ordered that the death penalty could be reduced by one degree of death if a ransom of 500,000 yuan was paid.
In the first year of Taishi, General Gongsun Ao was found guilty and had his waist cut in half.
The officials, people and heroes from the prefectures and states were moved to Maoling and Yunyang.
In the sixth month of summer, forgive the sinners in the world.

summary:
summary line 6: In the first year of Taichu, the emperor revised the calendar and built a palace. In the second year, he sacrificed to Houtu. In the third year, he built fortresses. In the fourth year, Li Guangli beheaded the King of Dayuan. In the first year of Tianhan, the Xiongnu returned envoys. In the second year, Li Guangli fought the Xiongnu, but Li Ling surrendered. Witchcraft was investigated. In the third year, the emperor sacrificed at Mount Tai. In the fourth year, he sent generals against the Xiongnu. In the first year of Taishi, Gongsun Ao was executed. In the second year, the emperor obtained a white unicorn and changed gold forms. In the third year, he visited the East China Sea. In the fourth year, he sacrificed at Mount Tai. In the first year of Zhenghe, witchcraft occurred. In the second year, the crown prince fled and committed suicide. In the third year, Li Guangli surrendered to the Xiongnu. In the fourth year, the emperor plowed land and repaired Mount Tai. In the first year of Hou Yuan, he pardoned the world. In the second year, he made Prince Fuling crown prince and died in Wuzha Palace.

Chunk 32: 
original: 
二年春正月，朝诸侯王于甘泉宫，赐宗室。
二月，行幸盩厔五柞宫。
乙丑，立皇子弗陵为皇太子。
丁卯，帝崩于五柞宫，入殡于未央宫前殿。
三月甲申，葬茂陵。
赞曰：汉承百王之弊，高祖拨乱反正，文、景务在养民，至于稽古礼文之事，犹多阙焉。
孝武初立，卓然罢黜百家，表章《六经》。遂畴咨海内，举其俊茂，与之立功。
兴太学，修郊祀，改正朔，定历数，协音律，作诗乐，建封禅，礼百神，绍周后，号令文章，焕焉可述。
后嗣得遵洪业，而有三代之风。
如武帝之雄材大略，不改文、景之恭俭以济斯民，虽《诗》、《书》所称，何有加焉！
translation: 
In the spring of the second year and the first month of the first lunar month, all princes and kings came to the emperor in Ganquan Palace, and the emperor rewarded the clan.
In February, I came to Wuzha Palace in Zhouzhi County.
On February 12, Prince Fuling was made the crown prince.
On the 14th, Emperor Wu died in Wuzha Palace. The funeral was held in the front hall of Weiyang.
On the second day of March, he was buried in Maoling.
Ban Gu commented: The Han Dynasty was founded in a turbulent period when heroes were vying for the throne. Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty brought order to the chaos, and Emperor Wen and Emperor Jing made recuperation and recuperation his top priority. However, there was still a lack of achievements in the cultural affairs of ancient rituals.
In the early days of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, he resolutely dismissed hundreds of schools of thought and advocated Confucianism alone. He also sought advice from others, recommended talented people, and gave them opportunities to make contributions.
He established Imperial College, established suburban sacrifices, corrected Shuo, established calendar numbers, and harmonious rhythms, composed poems and music, established Zen confederations, and worshiped hundreds of gods. After inheriting the Zhou Dynasty, he issued orders and articles that can be described in a new way.
Inheriting the great achievements of his ancestors, he has the style of the emperors of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties.
Even if Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty had such a great talent and strategy, and if he did not change Wen Jing's frugality and put the common people on the throne of Renren, even the emperors praised in "Poems" and "Books" could not surpass him.

summary:
summary line 7: Ban Gu commented: Emperor Wu dismissed hundreds of schools, promoted Confucianism, established Imperial College, and reformed rituals. He inherited ancestral achievements but lacked frugality, which even praised emperors could not surpass.

