Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝武皇帝，景帝中子也，母曰王美人。年四岁立为胶东王。
七岁为皇太子，母为皇后。
十六岁，后三年正月，景帝崩。
甲子，太子即皇帝位，尊皇太后窦氏曰太皇太后，皇后曰皇太后。
三月，封皇太后同母弟田蚡、胜皆为列侯。
建元元年冬十月，诏丞相、御史、列侯、中二千石、二千石、诸侯相举贤良方正直言极谏之士。
丞相绾奏： 所举贤良，或治申、商、韩非、苏秦、张仪之言，乱国政，请皆罢。
奏可。
春二月，赦天下。赐民爵一级。
年八十复二算，九十复甲卒。
行三铢钱。
夏四月己巳，诏曰： 古之立孝，乡里以齿，朝廷以爵，扶世导民，莫善于德。
然即于乡里先耆艾，奉高年，古之道也。
今天下孝子、顺孙愿自竭尽以承其亲，外迫公事，内乏资财，是以孝心阙焉，朕甚哀之。
民年九十以上，已有受鬻法，为复子若孙，令得身帅妻妾遂其供养之事。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaowu Liu Che was the second son of Emperor Jing. His mother was Wang Meiren, who was made King of Jiaodong when she was four years old.
At the age of seven, he was made crown prince, and his mother was made queen.
At the age of sixteen, in the first month of the third year after Emperor Jing, Emperor Jing died.
On the twenty-seventh day of the first lunar month, the prince succeeded to the throne of the emperor, and the empress dowager Dou was honored as the empress dowager, and the empress was the empress dowager.
In March, the Empress Dowager and her brothers Tian Chongfen and Tian Sheng were made marquises.
In the tenth month of the winter of the first year of Jianyuan, the prime minister, censors, princes, and princes were ordered to recommend virtuous and upright people who can give the most honest advice.
Prime Minister Wei Wan reported: If any of the recommended virtuous people make remarks about Shen Buhai, Shang Yang, Han Fei, Su Qin, or Zhang Yi, which would confuse the state affairs, please stop them.
The emperor agreed.
In the second month of spring, the world will be pardoned and the people will be rewarded with one level of nobility.
Those who are over eighty years old are exempted from taxes for two members of the family, and those who are over ninety years old are exempted from taxes for the whole family.
Issue three baht coins.
On the ninth day of April in the summer of the first year of Jianyuan, an edict was issued saying: According to the ancient rules, age is the most important thing in the countryside, and title is the most important thing in the court. In governing the country and educating the people, virtue must be given a prominent position.
It can be said that respecting the elders and caring for the elderly in the countryside has been a principle since ancient times.
Today, filial sons and grandsons in the world are willing to do their best to support their elders. However, they are forced by external affairs and lack of financial resources internally. Therefore, it seems that filial piety is missing. I deeply sympathize with them.
When people are over ninety years old, the court has a system of making porridge and rice with rice and millet. Now it is added that his sons or grandsons are exempted from corvee service, so that they can lead their wives to fulfill their responsibility of supporting the elderly.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
五月，诏曰： 河海润千里。其令祠官修山川之祠，为岁事，曲加礼。
赦吴、楚七国帑输在官者。
秋七月，诏曰： 卫士转置送迎二万人，其省万人。
罢苑马，以赐贫民。
议立明堂。
遣使者安车蒲轮，束帛加璧，征鲁申公。
二年冬十月，御史大夫赵绾坐请毋奏事太皇太后，及郎中令王臧皆下狱，自杀。
丞相婴、太尉蚡免。
春二月丙戌朔，日有蚀之。夏四月戊申，有如日夜出。
初置茂陵邑。
三年春，河水溢于平原，大饥，人相食。
赐徙茂陵者户钱二十万，田二顷。
初作便门桥。
秋七月，有星孛于西北。
济川王明坐杀太傅、中傅废迁防陵。
translation: 
In the fifth month, an edict was issued saying: The rivers and seas moisten thousands of miles, and the ancestral officials can be ordered to build ancestral temples in the mountains and rivers. It is normal to offer sacrifices every year, and the sacrifices should also be improved.
The first offender in the Seven Kingdoms Rebellion was pardoned for his crime of confiscating his wife as a servant of the official family, and was deported.
In the seventh month of Autumn, an edict was issued saying: The palace guards will go to the old place to set up a new one, numbering 20,000, and save 10,000.
The court's horse-breeding gardens were opened to the poor to graze and collect wood.
It was agreed to establish a Mingtang where the emperor declared his political and religious affairs.
An envoy was sent to summon Lu Shen Gong in a safe and comfortable vehicle with cloth and jade.
In the winter of October of the second year, Zhao Wan, the imperial censor, committed the crime of not reporting to the Empress Dowager. He and his doctor ordered Wang Zang to be imprisoned and committed suicide.
Prime Minister Dou Ying and Taiwei Tian Chong were dismissed from their posts.
On the first day of February in spring, there is a partial solar eclipse. On April 24th in summer, the night was like day.
The establishment of Maoling-eup began.
In the spring of the third year, the Yellow River flooded the plains, causing a great famine and causing people to eat each other.
The residents who moved to Maoling were given 200,000 yuan and two hectares of land.
Build the Benmen Bridge across the Weishui River from Chang'an to Maoling.
In autumn and July, a comet appears in the northwest.
King Liu Ming of Jichuan committed the crime of killing Taifu and Zhongfu and was deposed and moved to Fangling.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
未至，闽越走，兵还。九月丙子晦，日有蚀之。四年夏，有风赤如血。
六月，旱。秋九月，有星孛于东北。
五年春，罢三铢钱，行半两钱。
置《五经》博士。
夏四月，平原君薨。
五月，大蝗。
秋八月，广川王越、清河王乘皆薨。
六年春二月乙未，辽东高庙灾。
夏四月壬子，高园便殿火。
上素服五日。
五月丁亥，太皇太后崩。
秋八月，有星孛于东方，长竟天。
闽越王郢攻南越。遣大行王恢将兵出豫章、大司农韩安国出会稽击之，未至，越人杀郢降，兵还。
元光元年冬十一月，初令郡国举孝廉各一人。
卫尉李广为骁骑将军屯云中，中尉程不识为车骑将军屯雁门，六月罢。
translation: 
The Fujian and Yue soldiers besieged Dong Ou, and Dong Ou asked the Han court for help. The emperor sent Yan, a senior official, to assist him and mobilize the troops stationed in Kuaiji to float to the sea to rescue Dong Ou. Before the soldiers arrived, Minyue retreated. September 2nd, partial solar eclipse. In the summer of the fourth year, a wind blew up the red dust, which was as red as blood.
In June, there was a severe drought, and in autumn and September, comets appeared in the northeast.
In the spring of the fifth year, three baht coins were abolished and half a liang coin was issued.
Set up Doctor of the Five Classics.
In April of summer, the emperor's grandmother Pingyuan Jun passed away.
In May, a major locust plague occurred.
In the eighth month of autumn, King Liu Yue of Guangchuan and King Liu Cheng of Qinghe both died.
On the third day of February in the sixth year of spring, there was a fire in the Gaozu Temple in Liaodong.
On April 21st in the summer, a fire broke out in the Gaoyuan Bedroom.
The emperor wore plain clothes and blamed himself for five days.
On May 26, the Empress Dowager passed away.
In autumn and August, the comet appears in the east for a long time.
When King Ying of Minyue attacked South Vietnam, the imperial court sent Daxing Wang Hui to lead troops out of Yuzhang, and Da Sinong Han Anguo to lead troops out of Kuaiji to prepare for a counterattack. Before the soldiers arrived, the Yue people killed Ying and surrendered. Wang, Han and others withdrew their troops.
In the winter and November of the first year of Yuanguang, the county began to recommend one person each for Xiao and Lian.
Wei Lieutenant Li Guang stationed troops at Yunzhong as General Chao Cavalry, and Lieutenant Cheng Bushi stationed troops at Yanmen as General Chao Cavalry. They withdrew their troops in June.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
夏四月，赦天下，赐民长子爵一级。复七国宗室前绝属者。
五月，诏贤良曰： 朕闻昔在唐、虞，画像而民不犯，日月所烛，莫不率俾。
周之成、康，刑错不用，德及鸟兽，教通四海，海外肃慎，北发渠搜，氐羌徠服；星辰不孛，日月不蚀，山陵不崩，川谷不塞；麟、凤在郊薮，河、洛出图书。
呜乎，何施而臻此与！
今朕获奉宗庙，夙兴以求，夜寐以思，若涉渊水，未知所济。
猗与伟与！
何行而可以章先帝之洪业休德，上参尧、舜，下配三王！
朕之不敏，不能远德，此子大夫之所睹闻也，贤良明于古今王事之体，受策察问，咸以书对，著之于篇，朕亲览焉。
于是董仲舒、公孙弘等出焉。
秋七月癸未，日有蚀之。
二年冬十月，行幸雍，祠五畴。
春，诏问公卿曰： 朕饰子女以配单于，金币文绣赂之甚厚，单于待命加曼，侵盗亡已。
translation: 
In the fourth month of summer, he pardoned the world, rewarded the chief minister with the first level of viscount, and restored the clan status of the clans of the seven kingdoms that had been extinguished due to the crime of rebellion by the seven kingdoms.
In May, the imperial edict Xianliang said: I heard that in the old days of Tang and Yu, only sin robes were used to symbolize the five punishments, but the people could not break the law. Everyone obeyed the sun and the moon.
During the reign of King Cheng and King Kang of the Zhou Dynasty, criminal laws were put aside, virtues extended to birds and beasts, and education spread all over the world. When Su Shen from abroad came to the court, the northern canals were searched for service, and the Di and Qiang surrendered; the stars did not comet, the sun and the moon did not eclipse, the mountains did not collapse, and the rivers and valleys were not blocked; unicorns and phoenixes roamed the countryside, and books appeared in the Yellow River and Luoshui.
hehe! Only Pushi Deze can have such a prosperous time!
Today I have the honor to inherit the great authority. I get up early to seek and stay quiet at night to think. If I look at the ocean and sigh, I don't know how to reach the other shore.
Beautiful! How great!
Through those actions, the great cause and virtues of the late emperor were carried forward, and he was worthy of Yao and Shun at the top and the three kings at the bottom.
My nature is dull and my virtue cannot reach far. This is well known to all the doctors. Wise men understand the rise and fall of kings in ancient and modern times, and receive advice and inquiries. Please write them down in writing and compile them into a volume for my reading.
So Dong Zhongshu, Gongsun Hong and others stood out.
On July 30th in autumn, there will be a partial eclipse of the sun.
In the winter and tenth month of the second year, the emperor went to Yongdi to worship the Five Emperors.
In the spring, I issued an edict and asked the ministers: "I once decorated beautiful women to match the Xiongnu Chanyu, and rewarded them generously with gold coins, embroidery, and embroidery. However, after accepting the imperial edict, the Chanyu became arrogant and invaded endlessly."


Chunk 4: 
original: 
边境被害，朕甚闵之。
今欲举兵攻之，何如？
大行王恢建议宜击。
夏六月，御史大夫韩安国为护军将军，卫尉李广为骁骑将军，太仆公孙贺为轻车将军，大行王恢为将屯将军，太中大夫李息为材官将军，将三十万众屯马邑谷中，诱致单于，欲袭击之。
单于入塞，觉之，走出。
六月，军罢。
将军王恢坐首谋不进，下狱死。
秋九月，令民大酺五日。
三年春，河水徙，从顿丘东南流入勃海。
夏五月，封高祖功臣五人后为列侯。
河水决濮阳，泛郡十六。发卒十万救决河。起龙渊宫。
四年冬，魏其侯窦婴有罪，弃市。
春三月乙卯，丞相蚡薨。
夏四月，陨霜杀草。
五月，地震。赦天下。
五年春正月，河间王德薨。
夏，发巴、蜀治南夷道。又发卒万人治雁门阻险。
秋七月，大风拔木。
translation: 
I am deeply disturbed by the murders at the border.
Now I want to send troops to attack, what do you think?
Daxing Wang Hui suggested that we should attack.
In the sixth month of the summer, Han Anguo, the imperial censor, was appointed as the guard general, Weiwei Li Guang was the heroic cavalry general, Sun He, the great servant, was the light chariot general, Daxing Wang Hui was the general general, and the great official Li Xi was the caiguan general. They stationed 300,000 people in the valley of Mayi. They wanted to lure Shan Yu into the fortress and launched an attack unexpectedly.
After Shanyu entered the fortress, he immediately exited when he noticed something strange.
In June, withdraw troops.
General Wang Hui committed the crime of "not advancing the plan" and was imprisoned and died.
In the ninth month of autumn, the whole country was ordered to drink alcohol for five days to comfort the farmers.
In the spring of the third year, the Yellow River moved and flowed from the southeast of Dunqiu into the Bohai Sea.
In the fifth month of summer, five of Gaozu's meritorious officials were granted the title of marquis.
The Yellow River burst in Puyang and flooded sixteen counties. One hundred thousand soldiers were mobilized to block the floods for disaster relief, and Longyuan Palace was built.
In the winter of the fourth year, Wei Qihou Dou Ying was found guilty and his head was hung in public.
On the seventeenth day of the third lunar month in the spring, Prime Minister Chong died.
In April of summer, severe frost damaged crops.
In May, there was an earthquake and the world was forgiven.
In the first month of spring of the fifth year, Wang De of Hejian passed away.
In the summer, corvees from Bashu were recruited to build Nanyi Avenue, and tens of thousands of soldiers were mobilized to build Yanmen Pass.
In autumn and July, strong wind uproots trees.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
乙巳，皇后陈氏废。捕为巫蛊者，皆枭首。
八月，螟。
征吏民有明当世之务、习先圣之术者，县次续食，令与计偕。
六年冬，初算商车。
春，穿漕渠通渭。
匈奴入上谷，杀略吏民。遣车骑将军卫青出上谷，骑将军公孙敖出代，轻车将军公孙贺出云中，骁骑将军李广出雁门。
青至龙城，获首虏七百级。
广、敖失师而还。
诏曰： 夷狄无义，所从来久。间者匈奴数寇边境，故遣将抚师。
古者治兵振旅，因遭虏之方入，将吏新会，上下未辑。代郡将军敖、雁门将军广所任不肖，校尉又背义妄行，弃军而北，少吏犯禁。
translation: 
On July 14, Queen Chen was deposed, and the witches who incited people and disrupted the court were arrested and beheaded.
August, plague of borers.
Among the officials and people, those who understood the affairs of the time and the art of the sages were recruited to Kyoto to take countermeasures, and the towns and counties along the way were provided with food expenses.
Order the envoys from each county to be the leader of their team when they come to Beijing. In the winter of the sixth year, taxes began to be levied on merchants' vehicles and ships.
In spring, a canal for transporting grain was excavated and connected to the Wei River.
The Xiongnu invaded the Shang Valley and plundered the people. The emperor sent the cavalry general Wei Qingbing out of the Shang Valley, the cavalry general Gongsun Aobing to come out, the light cavalry general Gongsun He out of Yunzhong, and the brave cavalry general Li Guang out of Yanmen.
Wei Qing went to Longcheng and captured 700 enemy heads.
Gongsun Ao and Li Guang were defeated due to command errors and returned home.
The emperor issued an edict saying: Yi and Di have been treacherous for a long time. In the past, the Xiongnu invaded the border many times, so generals were sent to command the frontline soldiers to meet the enemy. The ancient military law is to control the army when going out, and to strengthen the brigade when entering.
Due to the sudden invasion of the Xiongnu this time, our army's officers and men had a new meeting, and there was no coordination between the top and bottom. The generals Gongsun Ao who sent the troops out of Daijun, and Li Guang who sent the troops out of Yanmen were of low quality. The captain also acted blindly against orders, so that he abandoned the army and fled, and the petty officials violated the ban.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
用兵之法：不勤不教，将率之过也；教令宣明，不能尽力，士卒之罪也。
将军已下廷尉，使理正之，而又加法于士卒，二者并行，非仁圣之心。
朕闵众庶陷害，欲刷耻改行，复奉正义，厥路亡由。
其赦雁门、代郡军士不循法者。
夏，大旱，蝗。
六月，行幸雍。
秋，匈奴盗边。遣将军韩安国屯渔阳。
元朔元年冬十一月，诏曰： 公卿大夫，所使总方略，壹统类，广教化，美风俗也。
夫本仁祖义，褒德禄贤，劝善刑暴，五帝、三王所由昌也。
朕夙兴夜寐，嘉与宇内之士臻于斯路。
translation: 
It is the fault of the general to not pay attention to strengthening combat readiness and improving morale in the use of troops; it is the fault of the soldiers to fail to fight with all their strength despite repeated orders.
The general has been handed over to the court captain, and the crime is judged according to the law. If the general soldiers are also subject to military law, and the general and the soldiers are punished at the same time, it is not the heart of benevolence and sage.
I sympathize with the ordinary soldiers who have been implicated. If they want to make atonement and kill the enemy and defend the country again, there will be no conditions and opportunities.
Therefore, soldiers in the Yanmen and Daijun armies who committed common disciplinary violations were pardoned.
In summer, there was a severe drought and locust plague.
In June, I visited Yongdi.
In autumn, the Xiongnu plundered the border, and the emperor sent General Han Anguo to station troops in Yuyang.
In the eleventh month of the winter of the first year of Shuo, an edict was issued saying: The mission of the officials is to formulate policies and strategies, unify action measures, promote the court's virtues and policies, and change the social atmosphere.
Based on benevolence and righteousness, we praise virtuous people, use virtuous people, encourage good behavior, and punish lawless behavior. This is the experience that makes the Five Emperors and Three Kings prosper.
I long for it and hope to walk this broad road together with people with lofty ideals from all over the world.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
故旅耆老，复孝敬，选豪俊，讲文学，稽参政事，祈进民心，深诏执事，兴廉举孝，庶几成风，绍休圣绪。
夫十室之邑，必有忠信；三人并行，厥有我师。
今或至阖郡而不荐一人，是化不下究，而积行之君子雍于上闻也。
二千石官长纪纲人伦，将何以佐朕烛幽隐，劝元元，厉蒸庶，崇乡党之训哉？
且进贤受上赏，蔽贤蒙显戮，古之道也。
其与中二千石、礼官、博士议不举者罪。
有司奏议曰： 古者，诸候贡士，壹适谓之好德，再适谓之贤贤，三适谓之有功，乃加九锡；不贡士，壹则黜爵，再则黜地，三而黜，爵、地毕矣。
夫附下罔上者死，附上罔下者刑；与闻国政而无益于民者斥；在上位而不能进贤者退，此所以劝善黜恶也。
今诏书昭先帝圣绪，令二千石举孝廉，所以化元元，移风易俗也。
不举孝，不奉诏，当以不敬论。
不察廉，不胜任也，当免。
translation: 
Therefore, we benefited the elderly, gave preferential treatment to filial brothers, selected heroes, taught literature, and discussed the country's founding plan together, praying to meet the popular expectations. We issued many edicts to the officials in charge, advocated filial piety and integrity, and even made it a common practice to inherit the good legacy of the Five Emperors and Three Kings.
In a city with ten houses, there must be loyalty; if three people walk together, there must be my teacher.
Today, there is not a single virtuous person recommended to the imperial court in the entire county. This is because the imperial court's education has not been thoroughly implemented, and the conduct of gentlemen with filial piety and integrity has been buried.
Erqian Shiguan is in charge of the implementation of imperial edicts and the selection of talents. How can they help me understand the situation, care about the people, inspire the people, and establish a social atmosphere of respecting the elderly and valuing the virtuous?
What's more, it is an ancient principle that those who advance the virtuous will be rewarded and those who hide the virtuous will be punished.
I asked Zhong Erqianshi, the ceremonial officer, and the doctor to discuss what crimes should be punished for county officials who do not promote virtuous people?
The official report said: In ancient times, when princes presented talents to the court, they were praised as virtuous for the first time, wise for the second time, and meritorious for the third time. The court rewarded them loftily. If the princes did not pay tribute to the court, they would be demoted for the first time, land for the second time, and land for the third time.
Those who collude with subordinates and deceive the superiors are put to death; those who flatter those above and deceive the subjects are punished; those who participate in state affairs but fail to benefit the people are expelled; those who are in important positions but cannot recommend talented people are abdicated. These are measures to encourage good and depreciate evil.
Today's edict requires that the tradition of selecting talents be carried forward by the emperors of the past generations, and the governors and magistrates are ordered to recommend filial and honest talents in order to educate the people and change customs.
Those officials who turn a deaf ear to the edict to promote talents should be regarded as disobedient.
Those who cannot cultivate and discover talented people are incompetent for their duties and should be dismissed.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
奏可。
十二月，江都王非薨。
春三月甲子，立皇后卫氏。
诏曰： 朕闻天地不变，不成施化；阴阳不变，物不畅茂。
《易》曰 通其变，使民不倦 。
《诗》云 九变复贯，知言之选 。
朕嘉唐、虞而乐殷、周，据旧以鉴新。
其赦天下，与民更始。
诸逋贷及辞讼在孝景后三年以前，皆勿听治。
秋，匈奴入辽西，杀太守；入渔阳、雁门，败都尉，杀略三千余人。
遣将军卫青出雁门，将军李息出代，获首虏数千级。
东夷薉君南闾等口二十八万人降，为苍海郡。
鲁王馀、长沙王发皆薨。
二年冬，赐淮南王、菑川王几杖，毋朝。
春正月，诏曰： 梁王、城阳王亲慈同生，愿以邑分弟，其许之，诸侯王请与子弟邑者，朕将亲览，使有列位焉。
于是籓国始分，而子弟毕侯矣。
匈奴入上谷、渔阳、杀略吏民千余人。
遣将军卫青、李息出云中，至高阙，遂西至符离，获首虏数千级。收河南地，置朔方、五原郡。
translation: 
This memorial was adopted.
In December, Liu Fei, King of Jiangdu, passed away.
On March 13th in the spring, Queen Wei was established.
The edict was issued: I have heard that if the heaven and earth do not change, transformation will not be possible; if the yin and yang do not change, things will not flourish.
"Yi" says: Only by adapting to the situation can the people's spirit be lifted up.
"Poetry" says: Understand the changes of heaven and earth without losing the way, choose the good and follow it.
I appreciate the Tang, Yu, and Yin and Zhou dynasties, and am willing to learn from historical experiences and lessons.
Now the world is amnesty and the people are reformed.
Some were prosecuted for committing crimes and fleeing in fear of crime or owing official property for a long time. Those who committed the crime three years ago before Emperor Xiaojing were exempted from prosecution.
In the autumn of the first year of Yuanshuo, the Huns invaded western Liaoning and killed the prefect of western Liaoning. They also invaded Yuyang and Yanmen, defeated the captains, and killed and plundered more than 3,000 people.
General Wei Qing was sent out of Yanmen, and General Li Xi was sent to replace him, and he captured thousands of enemy heads.
Nanlu, Huijun of Dongyi, and others led 280,000 subjects to submit to the Han and established Canghai County.
King Liu Yu of Lu and King Liu Fa of Changsha both died.
In the winter of the second year, King Huainan and King Sichuan were given a few sticks to avoid going to court.
In the first month of spring, an edict was issued saying: The king of Liang and the king of Chengyang are my brothers. I would like to grant my second brother a title of food. Please accept it. When the princes and kings ask for a seat for their children, I will personally review the list and ensure that they have the title of prince.
So the original vassal state was divided into some food towns, and all the princes and brothers were granted the title of marquis.
The Xiongnu entered Shanggu and Yuyang, killing and plundering more than a thousand officials and people.
The imperial court sent generals Wei Qing and Li Xi out of Yunzhong to Gaoque, and then to Fuli. They captured thousands of enemy heads, recovered Henan, and established Shuofang and Wuyuan counties.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
三月乙亥晦，日有蚀之。
夏，募民徙朔方十万口。
又徙郡国豪杰及訾三百万以上于茂陵。
秋，燕王定国有罪，自杀。
三年春，罢苍海郡。
三月，诏曰： 夫刑罚所以防奸也，内长文所以见爱也。以百姓之未洽于教化，朕嘉与士大夫日新厥业，祗而不解。
其赦天下。
夏，匈奴入代，杀太守；入雁门，杀略千余人。
六月庚午，皇太后崩。
秋，罢西南夷，城朔方城。
令民大酺五日。
四年冬，行幸甘泉。
夏，匈奴入代、定襄、上郡，杀略数千人。
五年春，大旱。
大将军卫青将六将军兵十余万人出朔方、高阙，获首虏万五千级。
夏六月，诏曰： 盖闻导民以礼，风之以乐。今礼坏乐崩，朕甚闵焉。
故详延天下方闻之士，咸荐诸朝。其令礼官劝学，讲议洽闻，举遗举礼，以为天下先。
translation: 
On March 30th, there was a partial solar eclipse.
In the summer, 100,000 people were recruited to migrate to Shuofang County.
They also moved the upper-class people of the county and households with assets of more than three million to Maoling.
In the autumn, King Yan committed suicide because he was guilty of the crime.
In the spring of the third year, the organizational structure of Canghai County was abolished.
In March, an edict was issued saying: Punishment is used to prevent adultery, and respect for virtue is to show the importance of talent. Today's people have not been cultivated in education, and I am happy to work with the scholar-bureaucrats to renew the Han Dynasty's imperial career, and to be respectful and unremitting.
Can forgive the world.
In summer, the Xiongnu invaded Dai and killed the prefect. Invading Yanmen, killing and plundering more than a thousand people.
On the second day of June, the Empress Dowager passed away.
In autumn, the conquest of the southwestern barbarians was exempted and Shuofang City was built.
The people of the country were ordered to drink alcohol for five days to comfort the people.
In the winter of the fourth year, I visited Ganquan.
In the summer, the Huns came to Dai, Dingxiang and Shangjun, killing and plundering thousands of people.
In the spring of the fifth year, a severe drought occurred.
General Wei Qing led six generals and more than 100,000 soldiers to set out at Shuofang and Gaoque, and captured more than 15,000 Xiongnu heads.
In the sixth month of the Xia Dynasty, an edict was issued saying: I once heard that people were taught to use etiquette and cultivated people to enjoy music. Nowadays, etiquette has become corrupted and music has collapsed. I am very sorry.
Therefore, the erudite and virtuous people gathered in Kyoto, and the ceremonial officials gave lectures. They collected and cited erudite texts, cited omitted articles, and promoted or destroyed rites, setting them as an example for the world.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
太常其议予博士弟子，崇乡党之化，以厉贤材焉。
丞相弘请为博士置弟子员，学者益广。
秋，匈奴入代，杀都尉。
六年春二月，大将军卫青将六将军兵十余万骑出定襄，斩首三千余级。
还，休士马于定襄、云中、雁门。
赦天下。
夏四月，卫青复将六将军绝幕，大克获。
前将军赵信军败，降匈奴。
右将军苏建亡军，独自脱还，赎为庶人。
六月，诏曰： 朕闻五帝不相复礼，三代不同法，所由殊路而建德一也。
盖孔子对定公以徠远，哀公以论臣，景公以节用，非期不同，所急异务也。
今中国一统而北边未安，朕甚悼之。
日者大将军巡朔方，征匈奴，斩首虏万八千级，诸禁锢及有过者，咸蒙厚赏，得免、减罪。
今大将军仍复克获，斩首虏万九千级，受爵赏而欲移卖者，无所流貤。
translation: 
The Taichang official should consider setting up the virtuous people who participated in this academic ceremony as doctoral disciples. This can not only promote education in the countryside, but also reward talents.
Prime Minister Gongsun Hongzou asked the doctor to set up disciples, and more and more people learned etiquette.
In autumn, the Xiongnu came to power and killed the captain.
In the spring and February of that year, General Wei Qing led six generals and more than 100,000 soldiers to ride out of Dingxiang and beheaded more than 3,000 enemies.
After returning to the division, the troops and horses rested and reorganized in Dingxiang, Yunzhong, Yanmen and other places.
Forgive the world.
In April of summer, Wei Qing once again led six generals and soldiers to the desert at the southern border of the Xiongnu and won a complete victory.
Former general Zhao Xin was defeated and surrendered to the Huns.
The right general Su Jian's troops collapsed and he fled back alone to redeem himself as a civilian.
In June, he issued an edict saying: I heard that the five emperors did not follow the old rules of the past, and the three generations did not follow the laws of the previous generation. The historical era in which they lived had changed, but the moral policies they established were consistent.
In the past, Confucius treated Duke Ding of Lu as a person who wanted to please those who were far away, and Duke Ai of Lu, who focused on political governance and saving money. This was not because the requirements were different, but that the specific situation determined the top priority.
Today China is unified but the north is unrest. I miss you very much.
At that time, the general Wei Qing patrolled Shuofang, conquered the Xiongnu, and beheaded 18,000 enemies. Some imprisoned people and those who had committed crimes were rewarded with victory on the front line, and were exempted from crime.
Now the general has once again achieved brilliant results, beheading 19,000 enemies. This time he took the initiative to receive the reward and wanted to sell it. If he does not comply with the order, he will not be allowed to do so.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
其议为令。
有司奏请置武功赏官，以宠战士。
元狩元年冬十月，行幸雍，祠五畴。获白麟，作《白麟之歌》。
十一月，淮南王安、衡山王赐谋反，诛。
党与死者数万人。
十二月，大雨雪，民冻死。
夏四月，赦天下。
丁卯，立皇太子。
赐中二千石爵右庶长，民为父后者一级。
诏曰： 朕闻咎繇对禹，曰在知人，知人则哲，惟帝难之。
盖君者，心也，民犹支体，支体伤则心憯怛。
日者淮南、衡山修文学，流货赂，两国接壤，怵于邪说，而造篡弑，此朕之不德。
《诗》云： 忧心惨惨，念国之为虐。
已赦天下，涤除与之更始。
朕嘉孝弟、力田，哀夫老眊、孤、寡、鳏、独或匮于衣食，甚怜愍焉。
其遣谒者巡行天下，存问致赐。
曰： 皇帝使谒者赐县三老、孝者帛，人五匹；乡三老、弟者、力田帛，人三匹；年九十以上及鳏、寡、孤、独帛，人二匹，絮三斤；八十以上米，人三石。
有冤失职，使者以闻。县、乡即赐，毋赘聚。
translation: 
Regulations can be formulated accordingly.
Officials in charge of martial arts requested the emperor to set up martial arts reward officers to reward warriors.
In the winter and tenth month of the first year of Yuanshou, he went to Yong to offer sacrifices to the Five Emperors. He obtained a white unicorn and wrote "The Song of Bailin".
In November, Liu An, the king of Huainan, and Liu Ci, the king of Hengshan, rebelled and were executed.
Tens of thousands of party members were executed.
In December, there was heavy rain and snow, and civilians froze to death.
In the fourth month of summer, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
On April 21st in summer, the crown prince was established.
He was given a title of two thousand stones, the right concubine's eldest son, and the first rank of title to the person who succeeded his father as the head of the family.
The edict was issued: I heard that Gao Tao's advice to Yu was to know people first. Only those who can know people are sages. Emperor Yao thought it was very difficult to know people.
Generally speaking, the king is the heart, and the people are like the limbs. When a limb is injured, the heart mourns.
In the past, the king of Huainan and the king of Hengshan cultivated literature and exchanged currency. The two countries bordered on each other, which led them to heresy and the desire to usurp. This reflects my immorality.
"Poetry" says: Worrying about misfortune, mourning the disaster in the country.
The world has been forgiven, the remaining poison has been purged, and the old has been discarded to seek the new.
I reward filial piety, brothers and sisters, care for the elderly, orphans and widowers, and have great sympathy for those who lack food and clothing.
Special envoys are now sent to patrol the world to offer condolences and rewards.
The edict said: The emperor sent a special envoy to give five pieces of cloth to each of the three elders and filial sons in the county; two pieces of silk to each of the three village elders, those who loved children, and those who worked in the fields, and three kilograms of cotton wool; and three stones of rice to each person over eighty. If someone is wronged and loses his regular job, the envoy must report it to his superiors for resolution.
Counties and townships should reward people immediately and on the spot, and there is no need to hold formalistic gatherings and delay the reward period.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
五月乙巳晦，日有蚀之。
匈奴入上谷，杀数百人。
春三月戊寅，丞相弘薨。
遣骠骑将军霍去病出陇西，至皋兰，斩首八千余级。
夏，马生余吾水中。
南越献驯象、能言鸟。
将军去病、公孙敖出北地二千余里，过居延，斩首虏三万余级。
匈奴入雁门，杀略数百人。
遣卫尉张骞、郎中令李广皆出右北平。
广杀匈奴三千余人，尽亡其军四千人，独身脱还，及公孙敖、张骞皆后期，当斩，赎为庶人。
江都王建有罪，自杀。
胶东王寄薨。
秋，匈奴昆邪王杀休屠王，并将其众合四万余人来降，置五属国以处之。
以其地为武威、酒泉郡。
三年春，有星孛于东方。
夏五月，赦天下。
立胶东康王少子庆为六安王。
封故相哈萧何曾孙庆为列侯。
秋，匈奴入右北平、定襄，杀略千余人。
translation: 
On May 30th, there was a partial solar eclipse.
The Xiongnu invaded Shanggu and killed hundreds of people.
On the eighth day of the third lunar month in the spring, Prime Minister Gongsun Hong passed away.
He sent General Huo Qu's sick soldiers out of Longxi to Gaolan Mountain and beheaded more than 8,000 enemies.
In summer, the horse was born in Yuwu water.
South Vietnam presented tame elephants and talking birds.
Generals Huo Qubing and Gongsun Ao marched more than 2,000 miles from the north, passed Juyan, and beheaded more than 30,000 enemies.
The Xiongnu entered Yanmen and killed and plundered hundreds of people.
He sent guard Zhang Qian and Lang Zhongling Li Guangdu to lead troops out of Youbeiping.
Li Guang killed more than 3,000 Xiongnu people, but all 4,000 of his own troops were defeated and fled back alone. He, Gongsun Ao and Zhang Qian did not arrive on time and should be executed to make atonement for their sins as common people.
Jiangdu King Liu Jian was guilty and committed suicide.
Liu Ji, King of Jiaodong, passed away.
In autumn, King Kunxie of the Xiongnu killed King Xiutu and led more than 40,000 of his men to surrender and set up five vassal states for resettlement.
Its land is Wuwei and Jiuquan counties.
In the spring of three years, a comet appeared in the east.
In the fifth month of summer, the world is forgiven.
He established Shao Ziqing, King Kang of Jiaodong, as King of Liu'an.
Xiao Qing, the great-grandson of the late Prime Minister Xiao He, was granted the title of Marquis.
In autumn, the Huns invaded Youbeiping and Dingxiang, killing and plundering thousands of people.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
遣谒者劝有水灾郡种宿麦。举吏民能假贷贫民者以名闻。
减陇西、北地、上郡戍卒半。
发谪吏穿昆明池。
四年冬，有司言关东贫民徙陇西、北地、西河、上郡、会稽凡七十二万五千口，县官衣食振业，用度不足，请收银、锡造白金及皮币以足用。
初算缗钱。春，有星孛于东北。
夏，有长星出于西北。
大将军卫青将四将军出定襄，将军去病出代，各将五万骑。
步兵踵军后数十万人。
青至幕北围单于，斩首万九千级，至阗颜山乃还。
去病与左贤王战，斩获首虏七万余级，封狼居胥山乃还。
两军士死者数万人。
前将军广、后将军食其皆后期。广自杀，食其赎死。
五年春三月甲午，丞相李蔡有罪，自杀。
天下马少，平牡马，匹二十万。
罢半两钱，行五铢钱。
translation: 
Special envoys were sent to persuade flood-stricken counties to plant winter wheat, and a list of officials and people who could be tolerant and caring for the poor was recommended to the court.
Reduce half of the garrison troops in Longxi, Beidi, and Shangjun.
Officials who were punished for their crimes were sent to dig the Kunming Pool to practice water warfare.
In the winter of the fourth year, the official in charge reported that the poor people from Guandong had migrated to Longxi, totaling 725,000 people in Beidi, Xihe, Shangjun, and Kuaiji. The county magistrate wanted to provide food, clothing, and production for them, but the money was insufficient and asked for silver coins to be made into platinum coins and white deer skin coins to meet the national needs.
The system of taxing merchants and handicrafts at a rate of 20 to 40% of the value of their goods was implemented. In spring, a comet appears in the northeast.
In the summer of the fourth year of Yuanshou, a long star appeared in the northwest.
General Wei Qing led four generals out of Dingxiang, and General Huo Qubing came out, each with 50,000 cavalry.
The infantry was followed by the cavalry, followed by hundreds of thousands of people.
Wei Qing went to Mobei to besiege King Shanyu and beheaded 19,000 people. Return to the army in Tianyan Mountain.
Huo Qubing fought against King Zuoxian of the Xiongnu and beheaded more than 70,000 enemies. He carved stones in Langjuxu Mountain to commemorate his achievements and returned.
Tens of thousands of people died in the battle between the two armies.
Former general Li Guang and rear general Shi Qi both failed to arrive at the position as scheduled. Li Guang committed suicide and Shi Qi redeemed himself for the death penalty.
On March 11th in the spring of the fifth year, Prime Minister Li Cai committed suicide.
There are few horses in the world, and the price of a stallion has been raised to 200,000 yuan.
Half a tael of money was scrapped and five baht coins were issued.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
徙天下奸猾吏民于边。
六年冬十月，赐丞相以下至吏二千石金，千石以下至乘从者帛，蛮夷锦各有差。
雨水亡冰。
夏四月乙巳，庙立皇子闳为齐王，旦为燕王，胥为广陵王。
初作诰。
六月，诏曰： 日者有司以币轻多奸，农伤而未众，又禁兼并之涂，故改币以约之。
稽诸往古，制宜于今。
废期有月，而山泽之民未谕。
夫仁行而从善，义立则俗易，意奉宪者所以导之未明与？
将百姓所安殊路，而挢虔吏因乘势以侵蒸庶邪？
何纷然其扰也！
今遣博士大等六人分循行天下，存问鳏、寡、废、疾，无以自振业者贷与之。
谕三老、孝弟以为民师，举独行之君子，征诣行在所。
朕嘉贤者，乐知其人。
广宣厥道，士有特招，使者之任也。
translation: 
Migrate the treacherous officials and people from all over the world to live in the frontiers.
In the winter and tenth month of the sixth year, rewards were given to officials ranging from the prime minister to two thousand stones of gold, and to servants ranging from one thousand stones to silk. The barbarians were given various brocades.
There is no snow or ice in winter rainfall.
On the 29th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Prince Hong was established as King of Qi, Dan as King of Yan, and Xu as King of Guangling in the ancestral temple.
He began to write the imperial edicts one by one to ennoble the princes.
In June, an edict was issued saying: In the past, the officials in charge believed that the cheap coins and high prices gave opportunities for evil and evil, and many people abandoned farming and engaged in business. In order to suppress the disparity between the rich and the poor, the currency system was reformed to check evil and mergers.
This is a monetary policy that is suitable for the present and formulated based on historical experience.
The ban on using half a tael of money has been more than a year, but people in remote areas still don't understand the meaning of the notice.
If the government is good, then the government should be good. If the government is popular, the people should follow the rules. However, the current currency system is hindered. Is it because the propaganda and guidance of local officials are not clear enough?
Or is it that the people's understanding is different, allowing those treacherous people who have placed their trust in their lives to take advantage of the opportunity to infringe on the interests of the people?
Why such a fuss!
Now we are sending six people, including a doctorate, to travel around the country, visit widows, widowers and the disabled, and provide relief to those who are unable to find a job for themselves.
The three elders and filial brothers are ordered to serve as teachers of the people, and gentlemen with high moral character are recommended to be recruited to the emperor's residence.
I respect the wise and am happy to know their situation.
It is necessary to widely publicize the principle that people with special talents and special practices can be specially recruited. This is the responsibility of practitioners.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
详问隐处亡位及冤失职、奸猾为害、野荒治苛者，举奏。
郡国有所以为便者，上丞相、御史以闻。
秋九月，大司马骠骑将军去病薨。
元鼎元年夏五月，赦天下，大酺五日。
得鼎汾水上。
济东王彭离有罪，废徙上庸。
二年冬十一月，御史大夫张汤有罪，自杀。
十二月，丞相青翟下狱死。
春，起柏梁台。
三月，大雨雪。
夏，大水，关东饿死者以千数。
秋九月，诏曰： 仁不异远，义不辞难，今京师虽未为丰年，山林、池泽之饶与民共之。
今水潦移于江南，迫隆冬至，朕惧其饥寒不活。
江南之地，火耕水耨，方下巴、蜀之粟致之江陵，遣博士中等分循行，谕告所抵，无令重困。
吏民有振救饥民免其厄者，具举以闻。
translation: 
It is necessary to investigate in detail those who were buried but not appointed, and those who were wronged and lost their regular careers. People and things that are harmful to the people due to treachery, desolate fields and harsh government should be reported to the court.
Any opinions that the county thinks can be convenient for the people should be reported to the prime minister and censor for consideration.
In the ninth month of autumn, General Huo Qubing passed away.
In the summer and fifth month of the first year of Yuanding, he pardoned the whole country and ordered the whole country to drink happily for five days to comfort the people.
Get the tripod above the Fen River.
Peng Li, the king of Jidong, was guilty and moved to Shangyong.
In the winter of November of the second year, Zhang Tang, the imperial censor, committed suicide.
In December, Prime Minister Zhuang Qingzhai was imprisoned and died.
In the spring of the second year of Yuanding, Bailiang Terrace was built.
In March, there was heavy rain and snow.
In summer, there were floods, and thousands of people in Guandong starved to death.
In the ninth month of Autumn, an edict was issued saying: It is benevolence to treat people both far and near as one, and it is righteousness not to be afraid of hardships and dangers. Although it is not a good year for the capital today, the wealth and resources of the mountains, forests, ponds and lakes should be exploited together with the people.
The current flood disaster is moving to the south of the Yangtze River, and the winter is coming. I am worried that the people in the south of the Yangtze River will be hungry and cold.
In the Jiangnan area, fire plowing and water plowing were carried out, and Bashu grain was immediately transferred to Jiangling. Doctors and middlemen were sent to various places to inspect and inform the victims that Shu grain had arrived, so as to relieve their worries.
Any officials or people who have made outstanding achievements in famine relief must report their deeds to the court in detail.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
三年冬，徙函谷关于新安。以故关为弘农县。
十一月，令民告缗者以其半与之。
正月戊子，阳陵园火。
夏四月，雨雹，关东郡国十余饥，人相食。
常山王舜薨。子嗣立，有罪，废徙房陵。
四年冬十月，行幸雍，祠五畴。赐民爵一级，女子百户牛、酒。
行自夏阳，东幸汾阴。
十一月甲子，立后土祠于汾阴脽上。
礼毕，行幸荥阳。
还至洛阳，诏曰： 祭地翼州，瞻望河、洛，巡省豫州，观于周室，邈而无祀。
询问耆老，乃得孽子嘉。
其封嘉为周子南君，以奉周祀。
春二月，中山王胜薨。
夏，封方士栾大为乐通侯，位上将军。
六月，得宝鼎后土祠旁。
秋，马生渥洼水中。
作《宝鼎》、《天马》之歌。
立常山宪王子商为泗水王。
五年冬十月，行幸雍，祠五畴。
遂逾陇，登空同，西临祖厉河而还。
十一月辛巳朔旦，冬至。
立泰畤于甘泉。
translation: 
In the winter of the third year, Hangu was moved to Xin'an, and the original address was Hongnong County.
In November, it was ordered that anyone who exposed tax evasion would be rewarded with half of the amount they should pay.
In the spring of the third year of Yuanding, a fire broke out in Yanglingyuan.
In the summer of April, there was hail, and famine broke out in more than a dozen counties in Kanto, and cannibalism occurred.
When Liu Shun, the king of Changshan, passed away, his son Bo Xun succeeded him. He was found guilty and moved to Fangling.
In the winter and tenth month of the fourth year, I visited Yong and offered sacrifices to the Five Emperors. I was rewarded with the rank of baron, a hundred women, cattle, and some wine.
Depart from Xiayang and arrive at Fenyin.
On November 8, Hou Tu Temple was built on the east bank of Fenyin.
After the ceremony, we arrived at Xingyang.
Returning to the capital from Luoyang, he issued an edict: "The Queen's sacrifice will be carried out in Jizhou, and we will look at the Luoshui River of the Yellow River. We will inspect Yuzhou and inspect the old sites of the Zhou Dynasty. The Zhou temple has been closed for worship for a long time."
After asking the local elders, he found Ji Jia, a descendant of the Zhou Dynasty.
Now Jia is granted the title of Zhou Zinanjun to inherit Zhou's sacrifices.
In the second month of spring, Liu Sheng, the king of Zhongshan, passed away.
In the Xia Dynasty, Luan Da, a scholar of alchemy, was appointed Marquis of Letong and became a general.
In June, I got the tripod next to Houtu Temple.
In autumn, it is said that horses are born in Wowa water.
Composed the songs "Baoding" and "Tianma" to celebrate the occasion.
Prince Liu Shang of Changshan was made King of Surabaya.
In the winter of the fifth year and in the tenth month, I was lucky enough to go to Yong to offer sacrifices to the Five Emperors?
Then we crossed Longshan Mountain, ascended Tongshan Mountain in the sky, and returned to the Zuli River in the west.
On the first day of November, the winter solstice, Li Tai?
In Ganquan County.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
天子亲郊见，朝日夕月。
诏曰： 朕以眇身托于王侯之上，德未能绥民，民或饥寒，故巡祭后土以祈丰年。冀州隹壤乃显文鼎，获荐于庙。
渥洼水出马，朕其御焉。
战战兢兢，惧不克任，思昭天地，内惟自新。
《诗》云： 四牡翼翼，以征不服。
亲省边垂，用事所极。
望见泰一，修天文禅。
辛卯夜，若景光十有二明。《易》曰： 先甲三日，后甲三日。
朕甚念年岁未咸登，饬躬斋戒，丁酉，拜祝于郊。
夏四月，南越王相吕嘉反，杀汉使者及其王、王太后。
赦天下。
丁丑晦，日有蚀之。
秋，蛙、虾蟆斗。
translation: 
The emperor personally offered sacrifices, worshiping the sun to the east in the morning and the moon to the southwest in the evening.
The edict was issued: I used my small body to hide myself above the princes, but my virtue failed to calm the people, and the people were unable to avoid hunger and cold. Therefore, I inspected the Houtu to pray for a good harvest. I found a writing tripod next to the Houtu Temple in Jizhou, and I had to offer it to the ancestral temple.
The Wowa water comes out for my royal use.
We are wary and fearful of not being able to do our job. If we want to show the virtue of heaven and earth, we must constantly reflect on ourselves and update ourselves.
"Poetry" says: Four horses ride together to conquer unyielding territory!
When I patrol the frontiers, I must perform sacrifices wherever I go.
See Taiyi and build an astronomical altar.
On the night of November 11th, if the daylight is very bright, "Yi" says: The first A should make a new start in three days, and the second A should give instructions in three days.
I was very concerned that there would not be a full harvest this year, so I fasted seriously and held a suburban festival on Dingyou on the third day of Houjia to thank God for the light.
In April of summer, Lu Jia, the Prime Minister of Nanyue, rebelled and killed the envoys of the Han Dynasty stationed in South Vietnam, as well as the Nanyue King and the Queen Mother.
Forgive the world.
On April 30th, there was a partial solar eclipse.
In autumn, frogs and toads fight each other.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
遣伏波将军路博德出桂阳，下湟水；楼船将军杨仆出豫章，下浈水；归义越侯严为戈船将军，出零陵，下离水；甲为下濑将军，下苍梧。
皆将罪人，江、淮以南楼船十万人，越驰义侯遗别将巴、蜀罪人，发夜郎兵，下牂柯江，咸会番禺。
九月，列侯坐献黄金酎祭宗庙不如法夺爵者百六人，丞相赵周下狱死。
乐通侯栾大坐诬罔要斩。
西羌众十万人反，与匈奴通使，攻故安，围枹罕。
匈奴入五原，杀太守。
六年冬十月，发陇西、天水、安定骑士及中尉、河南、河内卒十万人，遣将军李息、郎中令徐自为征西羌，平之。
行东，将幸缑氏，至左邑桐乡，闻南越破，以为闻喜县。
春，至汲新中乡，得吕嘉首，以为获嘉县。
translation: 
General Fu Bo, Lu Bode, sent his troops out of Guiyang and down to the Huangshui River. General Yang Pu, the Louchuan general, left Yuzhang and went down to the Huangshui River. He returned to Yi and Yue Marquis Yan became the Yichuan general. He left Lingling and went down to the Huai River. General Jia was sent to Xialase and went down to the Cangwu River. They all led the sinners to go out. To the south of the Yangtze River and Huaihe River, they sent war ships to carry 100,000 people.
The Yihou of Yue Chi bid farewell to the sinners of Bashu and conscripted the Yelang soldiers. Exit? Ke Jiang will meet in Panyu.
In the ninth month, 160 princes were demoted to civilian status for the crime of offering gold as a libation to the ancestral temple. The prime minister, Zhao Zhou, failed to correct his responsibilities and was imprisoned to death.
Luan, the Marquis of Letong, was beheaded for the crime of spreading rumors to deceive the emperor and deceive the emperor.
One hundred thousand people from the Western Qiang rebelled, made friends with the Xiongnu envoys, attacked Gu'an, and besieged four thousand counties in Mubao.
The Xiongnu also invaded Wuyuan and killed the prefect of the Han Dynasty.
In the winter and tenth month of the sixth year, 100,000 cavalrymen from Longxi, Tianshui and Anding, as well as soldiers from Weinian, Henan and Hanoi in Kyoto, were sent out. General Li Xi and Lang Zhongling were sent to Xu Ziwei to conquer and pacify the Western Qiang.
On the eastward tour, he visited Fengshi County and drove to Tongxiang, Zuoyi County. He was delighted when he heard that the South Vietnamese rebels had been defeated, so he changed the name of this place to Wenxi County.
In the spring, I drove to Xinzhong Township in Jixian County and learned that Lu Jia, the rebel prime minister of Yue, had been beheaded, so he changed the name of this place to Huojia County.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
驰义侯遣兵未及下，上便令征西南夷，平之。
遂定越地，以为南海、苍梧、郁林、合浦、交阯、九真、日南、珠厓、儋耳郡。
定西南夷，以为武都、牂柯、越巂、沈黎、文山郡。
秋，东越王馀善反，攻杀汉将、吏。
遣横海将军韩说、中尉王温舒出会稽，楼船将军杨仆出豫章击之。
又遣浮沮将军公孙贺出九原，匈河将军赵破奴出令居，皆二千余里，不见虏而还。
乃分武威、酒泉地置张掖、敦煌郡，徙民以实之。
元封元年冬十月，诏曰： 南越、东瓯咸伏其辜，西蛮、北夷颇未辑睦。朕将巡边垂，择兵振旅，躬秉武节，置十二部将军，亲帅师焉。
行自云阳，北历上郡、西河、五原，出长城，北登单于台，至朔方，临北河。
勒兵十八万骑，旌旗径千余里，威震匈奴。
遣使者告单于曰： 南越王头已县于汉北阙矣。
单于能战，天子自将待边；不能，亟来臣服。何但亡匿幕北寒苦之地为！
匈奴詟焉。
还，祠黄帝于桥山，乃归甘泉。
东越杀王馀善降。
诏曰： 东越险阻反复，为后世患，迁其民于江、淮间。
遂虚其地。
春正，行幸缑氏。
translation: 
The remaining troops of Marquis Chiyi had not yet withdrawn, so the emperor immediately ordered him to move to conquer the southwestern barbarians and pacify the Yue territory.
So the territory was pacified and divided into nine counties: Nanhai, Cangwu, Yulin, Hepu, Jiaozhi, Jiuzhen, Rinan, Zhukui and Dan'er.
After the southwest was razed and settled, was it designated as a military capital? There are five counties: Ke, Yueyuan, Shenli and Wenshan.
In autumn, Yushan, the king of Dongyue, rebelled and attacked and killed the generals of the Han Dynasty.
The imperial court sent General Han Shuo of Henghai and Lieutenant Wang Wenshu out of Kuaiji, and General Yang Pu out of Yuzhang to attack the King of Dongyue.
They also sent Fuju General Gongsun He's troops out of Jiuyuan, and Xionghe General Zhao Ponu's troops out of Huiju. They both went on an expedition of more than 2,000 miles, but returned without seeing any Xiongnu troops.
Therefore, Dunhuang and Zhangye counties were established in Fenwu and Jiuquan areas, and people from the interior were moved to enrich the territory.
In the winter of tenth month of the first year of Yuanfeng, the emperor issued an edict saying: The rebel prime minister of South Vietnam and the rebel king of Dongou have been punished. However, the southern barbarians and northern barbarians have not yet been convinced. I am ready to patrol the border, mobilize troops to revitalize the brigade, personally observe the martial arts festival, and set up twelve generals to act as commander-in-chief.
Starting from Yunyang, passing through Shangjun, Xihe and Wuyuan in the north, exiting the Great Wall, ascending to Shanyu in the north, arriving at Shuofang, facing Beihe River.
He led an army of 180,000 cavalry, and his banners stretched for more than a thousand miles, which shocked the Xiongnu.
He sent an envoy to tell Shan Yu: The head of the rebel king of South Vietnam is hanging in the north palace of the Han Dynasty.
If the Chanyu can engage in battle, the emperor himself will lead the troops in a strong formation and be like a border court; if the Chanyu cannot fight, he should quickly surrender, why should he flee and hide in the cold and miserable area of ​​​​Mobei!
The Huns were in awe.
Returning to the army, he offered sacrifices to the Yellow Emperor at Qiao Mountain, and then returned to Ganquan.
The subjects of Dongyue killed the rebel king Yu Shan and submitted to the Han.
Emperor Wu issued an edict saying: The terrain in East Vietnam is dangerous and the population is numerous, which may cause trouble in the future. The people must be moved to the Jianghuai area to live.
So all the local residents were moved out.
In the first month of spring, I came to Fengshi County.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
诏曰： 朕用事华山，至于中岳， 获駮麃，见夏后启母石。
翌日，亲登嵩高，御史乘属，在庙旁吏卒咸闻呼万岁者三。登礼罔不答。
其令祠官加增太室祠，禁无伐其草木。
以山下户三百为之奉邑，名曰崇高，独给祠，复亡所与。
行，遂东巡海上。
夏四月癸卯，上还，登封泰山，降坐明堂。
诏曰： 朕以眇身承至尊，兢兢焉惟德菲薄，不明于礼乐，故用事八神，遭天地况施，著见景象，屑然如有闻。
震于怪物，欲止不敢，遂登封泰山，至于梁父，然后升禅肃然。
自新，嘉与士大夫更始，其以十月为元封元年。
行所巡至，博、奉高、蛇丘、历城、梁父，民田租逋赋、贷，已除。
translation: 
The edict was issued: I sacrificed sacrifices to Huashan Mountain in the West and Mount Song in the Central Mountains. Did I get a tiger-eating beast and a horse? See the stone transformed by Tushan, the mother of Xia Houqi.
The next morning I climbed Mount Song in person. The imperial censor, his entourage, and the officials at the temple all heard the sound of the mountain mingling and the valley shouting three long lives. How could I not respond to the mountain god's courtesy to me?
The ancestral officials are now ordered to expand the scale of the Taishi Temple and prohibit logging of nearby vegetation.
The three hundred households at the foot of the mountain were designated as the town of Songshan, named Gao Shang. They only provided for the needs of the temple and were exempted from other taxes and servitude.
Continue patrolling, heading east to the Bohai Sea.
On the seventh day of the fourth lunar month in summer, the emperor came down from the top of Mount Tai, set up an altar to worship Mount Tai, and went down to the Mingtang Hall in the northeast.
The edict was issued: "I inherit the position of the Supreme Being with a small body. I am deeply afraid of having little moral character and am ignorant of rituals and music, so I offer sacrifices to the gods and earth from all directions." Fortunately, given the gift of heaven and earth, I saw strange sights in Songshan Mountain, and suddenly heard the voice of "Long Live".
Shocked by this vision, he did not dare to interrupt his sacrificial activities, so he ascended Mount Tai, the first of the five mountains, and offered sacrifices to Mount Liangfu, and then built an altar in Mount Suran.
From now on, I will be inspired to make a new start and make a beautiful start with the scholar-bureaucrats. October can be regarded as the year of Yuanfeng.
All the rents and taxes owed by the people in the places they pass through, such as Bo, Fenggao, Sheqiu, Licheng, Liangfu, etc., will be exempted.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
加年七十以上孤、寡帛，人二匹。
四县无出今年算。
赐天下民爵一级，女子百户牛、酒。
行自泰山，复东巡海上，至碣石。
自辽西历北边九原，归于甘泉。
秋，有星孛于东井，又孛于三台。
齐王闳薨。
春，幸缑氏，遂至东莱。
夏四月，还祠泰山。
至瓠子，临决河，命从臣将军以下皆负薪塞河堤，作《瓠子之歌》。
赦所过徙，赐孤、独、高年米，人四石。
还，作甘泉通天台、长安飞廉馆。
朝鲜王攻杀辽东都尉，乃募天下死罪击朝鲜。
六月，诏曰： 甘泉宫内中产芝，九茎连叶。
上帝博临，不异下房，赐朕弘休。
其赦天下，赐云阳都百户牛、酒。
作《芝房之歌》。
秋，作明堂于泰山下。
translation: 
Give two pieces of cloth to each of the lonely elderly people over seventy years old.
Four counties have not paid this year’s capitation tax.
Grant the world a rank of civil nobility, and give women a certain amount of cattle and wine for every hundred households.
The emperor set off from Mount Tai, then patrolled the sea eastward and arrived at Jieshi County.
From Liaodong, pass through Jiuyuan in the north and return to Ganquan.
In autumn, a comet appeared in the Dongjing star area, and another comet appeared in the Santai star area.
King Min of Qi passed away.
Spring came to Fengshi, and then to Donglai.
In the fourth month of summer, we offer sacrifices to Mount Tai on our way home.
When he arrived at the Huzi Embankment, he inspected the breach of the Yellow River and ordered all his subordinates, including generals and subordinates, to carry straw bags and tree branches on their backs and put them into the damming project, and composed "Song of the Huzi".
He pardoned the criminals in the places he passed by, and rewarded the lonely old people with grain and rice, four stones each.
After returning to the dynasty, he built Ganquan Tongtian Tower and Chang'an Feilian Pavilion.
The king of Korea attacked and killed the Liaodong captain, so he recruited prisoners who had committed capital crimes from all over the world to attack Korea to atone for their crimes.
In June, an edict was issued saying: "Lingzhi and Ruicao are produced in Ganquan Palace, with nine stems and leaves."
The light from heaven shines all over the world, illuminating the hidden world, and bestows upon me great blessings.
Now a general amnesty has been granted to the whole world, and hundreds of households in Yunyang are rewarded with some cattle and wine.
Composed "Song of Zhifang".
In autumn, a bright hall was built at the foot of Mount Tai.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
遣楼船将军杨仆、左将军荀彘将应募罪人击朝鲜。又遣将军郭昌、中郎将卫广发巴、蜀兵平西南夷未服者，以为益州郡。
三年在，作角抵戏，三百里内皆观。
夏，朝鲜斩其王右渠降，以其地为乐浪、临屯、玄菟、真番郡。
楼船将军杨仆坐失亡多免为庶民，左将军荀彘坐争功弃市。
秋七月，胶西王端薨。
武都氐人反，分徙酒泉郡。
四年冬十月，行幸雍，祠五畴。
通回中道，遂北出萧关，历独鹿，鸣泽，自代而还，幸河东。
春三月，祠后土。
诏曰： 朕躬祭后土地祇，见光集于灵坛，一夜三烛。
幸中都宫，殿上见光。
其赦汾阴、夏阳、中都死罪以下，赐三县及杨氏皆无出今年租赋。
夏，大旱，民多曷死。
秋，以匈奴弱，可遂臣服，乃遣使说之。
translation: 
He sent generals Yang Pu and General Xun of the left to lead the conscripts to attack North Korea. He also sent generals Guo Chang and Zhonglang general Wei Guang to lead the Bashu troops to pacify the tribes in the southwestern barbarians that had not yet surrendered, and established Yizhou County here.
In the spring of the third year, everyone from three hundred miles away came to watch the show.
In the Xia Dynasty, the Korean subjects beheaded their king Youqu and surrendered to the Han Dynasty. The Han court designated the areas as Lelang, Lintun, Xuantu and Zhenfan counties.
Yang Pu, the general of the building ship, was guilty of the crime of losing many soldiers and fleeing, and was dismissed from office and became a common people. The general of the left, Xun Zhen, was guilty of the crime of relying on his merits to compete for rewards and was beheaded in public.
In the seventh month of autumn, Wang Duan of Jiaoxi passed away.
The Di people in Wudu rebelled and moved to Jiuquan County.
In the winter and tenth month of the fourth year, the emperor came to Yong to offer sacrifices to the five emperors.
The emperor built a road leading back to the middle. From this road, the emperor left Xiaoguan in the north, passed through Dulu and Mingze, returned to the capital from Dai, and drove east of the river.
In the third month of spring, sacrifices are made to the Queen Earth God.
The edict was issued: After I personally offered sacrifices to the earth, I saw divine light gathering on the spiritual altar, appearing three times in one night.
I am in the Zhongdu Palace, and there is a splendid splendor in the palace.
For this reason, Fenyin, Xiayang, and Zhongdu were pardoned for crimes under death, and the above three counties and Yang County were rewarded not to pay rent this year.
In summer, there was a severe drought, and many people died of heatstroke.
In autumn, he thought that the Huns were weak and could take advantage of the situation to make them submit, so he sent envoys to introduce them.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
单于使来，死京师。
匈奴寇边，遣拔胡将军郭昌屯朔方。
五年冬，行南巡狩，至于盛唐，望祀虞舜于九嶷。登灊天柱山，自寻阳浮江，亲射蛟江中，获之。
舳舻千里，薄枞阳而出，作《盛唐枞阳之歌》。
遂北至琅邪，并海，所过，礼祠其名山大川。
春三月，还至泰山，增封。
甲子，祠高祖于明堂，以配上帝，因朝诸侯王、列侯，受郡国计。
夏四月，诏曰： 朕巡荆、扬、辑江、淮物，会大海气，以合泰山。
上天见象，增修封禅。
其赦天下。所幸县毋出今年租赋，赐鳏、寡、孤、独帛，贫穷者粟。
还幸甘泉，郊泰畴。
大司马大将军青薨。
初置刺史部十三州。
名臣文武欲尽，诏曰： 盖有非常之功，必待非常之人，故马或奔踶而致千里，士或有负俗之累而立功名。
夫泛驾之马，跅驰之士，亦在御之而已。
其令州、郡察吏、民有茂材、异等可为将、相及使绝国者。
六年冬，行幸回中。
translation: 
Chanyu sent an envoy and died of illness in Chang'an.
When the Xiongnu invaded the border fortress, the Han Dynasty sent General Guo Chang to garrison troops in Shuofang.
In the winter of the fifth year, I went on a hunting tour in the south. I went to Shengtang County in Nanjun County to worship Shun at Jiuyi Mountain. I climbed to Tianzhu Mountain and boarded a boat from Xunyang to patrol the river. I personally shot the dragon in the river and got the dragon.
The fleet traveled thousands of miles, departing from Fuyang County to compose "The Song of Fuyang in the Prosperous Tang Dynasty".
Then it goes north to Langyi and to the seaside. Wherever you pass, you will pay homage to the famous local mountains and rivers.
In the third month of spring, he passed through Mount Tai on his way back and sealed Mount Tai.
On March 21st, the emperor of the Han Dynasty was worshiped in Mingtang to be worthy of being honored in heaven. At this time, he summoned all the princes and princes to receive the plans from the prefecture and state.
In the fourth month of summer, an edict was issued: I visited Jing and Yang, offered sacrifices to Jianghuai, and gathered the energy of the sea god to reach Mount Tai.
God showed a spiritual image, and I added the ritual of sealing Zen.
Now I am pardoning the world, and the counties I pass through will not pay any taxes for this year. I will reward the widows and widowers with cloth, and give the poor people food.
So he drove to the sweet spring and worshiped the God of Mount Tai in the suburbs.
The great Sima and the great general Wei Qing passed away.
The Thirteen Prefectures of the Provincial Governor's Department began to be established.
Famous ministers were declining in civil and military affairs, and the emperor issued an edict to recruit talents: Generally, those who want to achieve extraordinary achievements must wait for extraordinary people. Therefore, some horses that are easy to kick can travel a thousand miles in a day, and some people who are ridiculed by the world can achieve great achievements.
Those recalcitrant horses and unruly people can be made to do something as long as they are controlled properly.
Now the states and counties are ordered to examine the talented people among the officials who can be candidates for generals, ministers and envoys to foreign countries.
In the winter of the sixth year, I was lucky enough to patrol back to Zhong.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
春，作首山宫。
三月，行幸河东，祠后土。
诏曰： 朕礼首山，昆田出珍物，化或为黄金。
祭后土，神光三烛。
其赦汾阴殊死以下，赐天下贫民布、帛，人一匹。
益州、昆明反，赦京师亡命令从军，遣拔胡将军郭昌将以击之。
夏，京师民观角抵于上林平乐馆。
秋，大旱，蝗。
太初元年冬十月，行幸泰山。
十一月甲子朔旦，冬至，祀上帝于明堂。
乙酉，柏梁台灾。
十二月，禅高里，祠后土。
东临勃海，望祠蓬莱。
春，还，受计于甘泉。
二月，起建章宫。
夏五月，正历，以正月为岁首。色上黄，数用五，定官名，协音律。
遣因杅将军公孙敖筑塞外受降城。
秋八月，行幸安定。遣贰师将军李广利发天下谪民西征大宛。
蝗从东方飞至敦煌。
translation: 
In spring, make the first mountain palace.
In March, I traveled to the east of the river to offer sacrifices to Houtu.
The edict said: I pay my respects to the first mountain because the Kuntian under the mountain produces treasures, some of which are turned into gold.
After offering sacrifices to the earth, divine light appeared three times.
We now pardon Fenyin County's criminals with capital crimes and below, and reward the poor people all over the world with a piece of cloth.
Revolts broke out in Yizhou and Kunming. The emperor pardoned those who committed crimes in Kyoto and ordered them to join the army, and sent General Guo Chang to lead the army to quell the rebellion.
In the summer, the people of Kyoto watched the Jiaodian opera at Shanglin Pingle Hall.
Autumn brings severe drought and locust plague.
In the tenth month of winter in the first year of Taichu, I traveled to Mount Tai.
On the first day of November, the winter solstice, worship God in the Mingtang.
On November 23, a fire broke out in Bailiang Terrace.
In December, sacrifices are held at Mount Gaoli at the foot of Mount Tai and at the Hou Tu Temple.
It faces the Bohai Sea in the east and looks forward to offering sacrifices to Penglai.
Returning to Kyoto in the spring, he was sent to Ganquan Palace by the governors.
In February, the Zhang Palace was built.
In the fifth month of summer, the calendar was revised, using the first month as the first month of the year, using yellow as the color, using straight characters for seals, unifying official names, and harmonizing music and rhythm.
General Gongsun Ao was sent to build a city outside the fortress to accept the surrender.
In autumn and August, he patrolled Anding County and sent General Li Guangli of the Second Division to recruit the criminals from all over the world who were sent into exile to guard the border and march westward to Dawan.
Locusts flew from the east to Dunhuang.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
二年春正月戊申，丞相庆薨。
三月，行幸河东，祠后土。
令天下大酺五日，膢五日，祠门户，比腊。
夏四月，诏曰： 朕用事介山，祭后土，皆有光应。其赦汾阴、安邑殊死以下。
五月，籍吏民马补车骑马。
秋，蝗。
遣浚稽将军赵破奴二万骑出朔方击匈奴，不还。
冬十二月，御史大夫儿宽卒。
三年春正月，行东巡海上。
夏四月，还，修封泰山，禅石闾。
遣光禄勋徐自为筑五原塞外列城，西北至卢朐，游击将军韩说将兵屯之。
强弩都尉路博德筑居延。
秋，匈奴人定襄、云中，杀略数千人，行坏光禄诸亭、障；又入张掖、酒泉，杀都尉。
四年春，贰师将军广利斩大宛王首，获汗血马来。作《西极天马之歌》。
秋，起明光宫。
冬，行幸回中。
translation: 
In the first month of spring of the second year, Prime Minister Shi Qing passed away.
In March, the emperor traveled to Hedong to worship the Houtu God.
The people were ordered to drink for five days to rejoice, pray for five days, and offer sacrifices in temples, the specifications of which were the same as those of the wax festival.
In the fourth month of summer, an edict was issued saying: I offered sacrifices to Jieshan and prayed for blessings on the land, and the spiritual light induced me to pardon criminals below death row in Fenyin and Anyi.
In May, the officials and people’s horses were registered to supplement the horses for carriage and riding.
Autumn, locust plague.
He sent Junji General Zhao Ponu with 20,000 cavalry out of Shuofang to attack the Xiongnu, and the entire army was wiped out.
In the winter of December, Erkuan, the imperial censor, passed away.
In the first month of spring of the third year, the emperor went eastward to patrol the sea.
In the fourth month of summer, on the way back, he built a seal on Mount Tai and offered sacrifices to Mount Shilu.
Guang Luxun and Xu Ziwei were sent to build a series of fortresses outside the Wuyuan Great Wall, northwest to Luqu Mountain, and guerrilla general Han Shuo led the troops to garrison.
Lu Bode, the captain of Qiannu, built his residence in Yancheng.
In autumn, the Xiongnu invaded Dingxiang and Yunzhong, killing and plundering thousands of people, and destroying the pavilions and barriers built by Guangluxun. They also entered Zhangye and Jiuquan and killed the captains.
In the spring of the fourth year, Li Guangli, the general of the Second Division, beheaded the King of Dayuan and won a horse that had sweated thousands of miles. The imperial court wrote "Song of the West Pole Pegasus" to celebrate.
In autumn, the Guangming Palace rises.
In winter, I will be lucky to return to the center.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
徙弘农都尉治武关，税出入者以给关吏、卒食。
天汉元年春正月，行幸甘泉，郊泰畴。
三月，行幸河东，祠后土。
匈奴归汉使者，使使来献。
夏五月，赦天下。
秋，闭城门大搜。发谪戍屯五原。
二年春，行幸东海。还幸回中。
夏五月，贰师将军三万骑出酒泉，与右贤王战于天山，斩首虏万余级。
又遣因杅将军出西河，骑都尉李陵将步兵五千人出居延北，与单于战，斩首虏万余级。
陵兵败，降匈奴。
秋，止禁巫祠道中者。
大搜。
渠黎六国使使来献。
泰山、琅邪群盗徐勃等阻山攻城，道路不通。遣直指使者暴胜之等衣绣衣、杖斧分部逐捕。刺史、郡守以下皆伏诛。
冬十一月，诏关都尉曰： 今豪杰多远交，依东方群盗。其谨察出入者。
translation: 
The captain who moved to Hongnong set up a tax card at Wuguan to collect entry and exit tariffs to provide the daily needs of customs officials and guards.
In the first month of spring in the first year of Tianhan, the emperor came to Ganquan and offered sacrifices to Mount Tai in the suburbs.
In March, he came to Hedong to offer sacrifices to Hou Tu.
The Huns returned the Han envoys and sent envoys to offer tribute.
In the fifth month of summer, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
In autumn, the city gates were closed to search for those who violated the law and wasted money, and the criminals were assigned to guard the Wuyuan border.
In the spring of the second year, I traveled to the East China Sea and returned to China.
In the fifth month of summer, the General of the Second Division led 30,000 cavalry out of Jiuquan and fought against King Youxian of the Xiongnu in the Tianshan Mountains, beheading more than 10,000 of the enemy.
He also sent General Yin Muyu out of Xihe, and Li Ling, the Cavalry Commander, sent 5,000 infantrymen out of Yanbei to fight Shanyu and beheaded more than 10,000 enemies.
Li Ling was defeated and surrendered to the Huns.
In autumn, people are prohibited from performing rituals on the roads.
Search for witchcraft.
The six countries of Quli in the Western Regions sent envoys to pay tribute.
Taishan and Langfu group bandit Xu Bo and others defended themselves in the mountains and captured the city. The roads were blocked. They sent Zhizhi envoy Suo Sheng and others in robes and armed with axes to pursue them separately. All officials below the governor's level who failed to suppress the bandits were executed.
In the eleventh month of winter, an edict was issued to Captain Guan: "Today, many powerful families and powerful people are friends with each other, and they are affiliated with the bandits from the east. We must strictly investigate people who come in and out of the customs."


Chunk 27: 
original: 
三年春二月，御史大夫王卿有罪，自杀。
初榷酒酤。
三月，行幸泰山，修封，祀明堂，因受计。
还幸北地，祠常山，瘗玄玉。
夏四月，赦天下。
行所过毋出田租。
秋，匈奴入雁门，太守坐畏愞弃市。
四年春正月，朝诸侯王于甘泉宫。发天下七科谪及勇敢士，遣贰师将军李广利将六万骑、步兵七万人出朔方，因杅将军公孙敖万骑、步兵三万人出雁门，游击将军韩说步兵三万人出五原，强弩都尉路博德步兵万余人与贰师会。
广利与单于战余吾水上连日，敖与左贤王战不利，皆引还。
夏四月，立皇子髆为昌邑王。
秋九月，令死罪入赎钱五十万减死一等。
太始元年春正月，因杅将军敖有罪，要斩。
徙郡、国吏民豪桀于茂陵、云陵。
夏六月，赦天下。
translation: 
In the spring and March of the third year, Wang Qing, the imperial censor, committed suicide.
For the first time, official sales of alcohol were stipulated.
In March, I traveled to Mount Tai and held a solemn sacrifice. The ceremony was held in the Mingtang, which was planned by various places.
When he returned to the court, he traveled to the north, offered sacrifices to Changshan, and buried a piece of black jade.
In April of summer, forgive the world.
Those who pass through will be exempted from land tax for one year.
In autumn, the Xiongnu invaded Yanmen Pass, and the prefect of Yanmen was executed for not advancing in fear of the enemy.
In the first month of the spring of the fourth year, all princes and kings met with Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty at Ganquan Palace, and recruited brave men who had committed various crimes and were willing to redeem themselves. He sent General Li Guangli of the Second Division to lead 60,000 cavalry and 70,000 infantry out of Shuofang. General Muyu Gongsun Ao led 10,000 cavalry and 30,000 infantry out of Yanmen Pass. He sent guerrilla general Han Yuo to lead 30,000 infantry out of Wuyuan. He sent strong crossbow general Duwei Lubode to lead more than 10,000 infantry to join forces with the general of the Second Division.
General Li Guangli fought with the Xiongnu King Shanyu for several days at the Yuwu waterfront. General Gongsun Ao lost the battle with the Xiongnu King Zuoxian and both withdrew their troops and returned to the court.
In the fourth month of summer, Prince Kun was made king of Changyi.
In the ninth month of autumn, it was ordered that the death penalty could be reduced by one degree of death if a ransom of 500,000 yuan was paid.
In the first year of Taishi, General Gongsun Ao was found guilty and had his waist cut in half.
The officials, people and heroes from the prefectures and states were moved to Maoling and Yunyang.
In the sixth month of summer, forgive the sinners in the world.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
二年春正月，行幸回中。
三月，诏曰： 有司议曰，往者朕郊见上帝，西登陇首，获白麟以馈宗庙，渥洼水出天马，泰山见黄金，宜改故名。
今更黄金为麟趾褭蹏以协瑞焉。
因以班赐诸侯王。秋，旱。
九月，募死罪人赎钱五十万减死一等。
御史大夫杜周卒。
三年春正月，行幸甘泉宫，飨外国客。
二月，令天下大酺五日。
行幸东海，获赤雁，作《朱雁之歌》。
幸琅邪，礼日成山。
登之罘，浮大海。山称万岁。
冬，赐行所过户五千钱，鳏、寡、孤、独帛，人一匹。
四年春三月，行幸泰山。
壬午，祀高祖于明堂，以配上帝，因受计。
translation: 
In the first month of spring of the second year, the emperor was on tour.
In March, an edict was issued saying: According to the suggestions of relevant officials, I made sacrifices to heaven in the suburbs, climbed Longshou Mountain in the west, and obtained a white unicorn to present to the ancestral temple. Pegasus appeared in the Wowa water, and natural gold appeared in Mount Tai. This should represent auspiciousness and the old method should be changed.
Today, the gold is changed into the shape of a cloud with lin feet and horseshoes to match the auspicious sign.
Therefore, the princes and kings were given the gold of Linzu and horse hoofs in order of rank. Autumn, drought.
In September, those who committed capital crimes could have their death penalty reduced by one degree by paying a ransom of 500,000 yuan.
Du Zhou, the imperial censor, passed away.
In the first month of the spring of the third year, the emperor went to Ganquan Palace and held a banquet to entertain foreign guests.
In February, the whole country was ordered to drink happily for five days.
The emperor visited the East China Sea and got a red goose, which he composed "Song of the Red Goose".
I'm lucky enough to be riding Langyan and worshiping the sun in Chengshan.
Climb Zhifu Mountain and take a boat ride on the sea. There are shouts of "Long Live" in the valleys on the shore.
In winter, every household in the place where the reward passes is 5,000 yuan, and each widow and widower is given a piece of cloth.
In the spring and March of the fourth year, the emperor visited Mount Tai.
On March 25th, Emperor Gaozu was worshiped in the Mingtang in order to be worthy of heaven. It was time to accept the records submitted by the various counties.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
癸未，祀孝景皇帝于明堂。甲申，修封。
丙戌，禅石闾。
夏四月，幸不其，祠神人于交门宫，若有乡坐拜者。作《交门之歌》。
夏五月，还幸建章宫，大置酒，赦天下。
秋七月，赵有蛇从郭外入邑，与邑中蛇群斗孝文庙下，邑中蛇死。
冬十月甲寅晦，日有蚀之。十二月，行幸雍，祠五畴，西至安定、北地。
征和元年春正月，还，行幸建章宫。
三月，赵王彭祖薨。
冬十一月，发三辅骑士大搜上林，闭长安城门索，十一日乃解。
巫蛊起。
二年春正月，丞相贺下狱死。
夏四月，大风发屋、折木。
闰月，诸邑公主、阳石公主皆坐巫蛊死。
夏，行幸甘泉。
translation: 
On the 26th, Emperor Xiaojing was worshiped in Mingtang. On the 27th, Mount Tai was built.
On the 29th, sacrifices were made to Shilu Mountain.
In April of summer, I came to Donglai County and worshiped the God of the Sea at Jiaomen Palace. I could vaguely see the image of the God sitting and worshiping in the temple in the ethereal space. The emperor composed "Song of Jiaomen".
In the fifth month of summer, they all came to Jianzhang Palace and held a banquet to pardon the sinners in the world.
In the seventh month of autumn, snakes from the Zhao area came into the city from outside the city. They fought with the snakes in the city under the temple of Emperor Xiaowen, and the snakes in the city were killed.
On October 30th in winter, there will be a partial solar eclipse. In December, the emperor came to Yongdi to worship the Five Emperors and visited Anding and Beidi in the west.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Zhenghe, the emperor returned to the capital and arrived at Jianzhang Palace.
In March, King Pengzu of Zhao passed away.
In November of winter, the three auxiliary cavalry were mobilized to search Shanglin Garden, and the gates of Chang'an were closed to search for traitors. The ban was lifted on the eleventh day.
Witchcraft happened.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, Prime Minister He was imprisoned and died.
In April in summer, strong winds uproot houses and break trees.
In the leap month of the second year, Princess Zhuyi and Princess Yangshi, the daughters of Queen Wei, were both sentenced to death for being involved in the crime of witchcraft.
In summer, drive to Ganquan.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
秋七月，按道侯韩说、使者江充等掘蛊太子宫。壬午，太子与皇后谋斩充，以节发兵与丞相刘屈氂大战长安，死者数万人。
庚寅，太子亡，皇后自杀。
初置城门屯兵。更节加黄旄。
御史大夫暴胜之、司直田仁坐失纵，胜之自杀，仁要斩。
八月辛亥，太子自杀于湖。
癸亥，地震。
九月，立赵敬肃王子偃为平干王。
匈奴入上谷、五原，杀略吏民。
三年春正月，行幸雍，至安定、北地。
匈奴入五原、酒泉，杀两都尉。
三月，遣贰师将军广利将七万人出五原，御史大夫商丘成二万人出西河，重合侯马通四万骑出酒泉。
成至浚稽山与虏战，多斩首。
通至天山，虏引去，因降车师。
皆引兵还。
广利败，降匈奴。
六月，丞相屈氂下狱要斩，妻枭首。
translation: 
In the seventh month of autumn, according to Dao Hou Han's instructions, envoy Jiang Chong and others unearthed the puppets buried in the ground in the palace of the prince. On July 9, the prince and the queen wanted to kill Jiang Chong when they saw that Jiang Chong had taken advantage of the opportunity to frame him. The prince ordered the deployment of troops to fight with the prime minister Liu Quyou in Chang'an, and tens of thousands of people were killed on both sides.
On July 17, the prince fled and the queen committed suicide.
Soldiers began to be stationed at the capital city gate, and Huang Ya was added to the talisman to distinguish it from the prince's military talisman.
The censor, Dr. Shengzhi, was convicted of neglecting oversight. Shengzhi committed suicide and Tianren was beheaded.
On August 8, the prince committed suicide in Hu County.
August 20, earthquake.
In September, Prince Yan of Zhao Jingsu was made King Qian.
The Xiongnu invaded Shanggu and Wuyuan, killing and plundering local officials and people.
In the first month of the spring of the third year, he came to Yong and arrived in Anding and Beidi.
The Xiongnu invaded Wuyuan and Jiuquan and killed two captains.
In March, Li Guangli, the general of the Second Division, led 70,000 troops out of Wuyuan, Shang Qiucheng, the imperial censor, led 20,000 troops out of Xihe, and Hou Ma Tong led 40,000 cavalry out of Jiuquan.
Shangqiu formed an army and went to Junji Mountain to engage the enemy and beheaded many of them.
Ma Tong's troops reached the Tianshan Mountains, but the Huns retreated and took advantage of the situation to conquer the chariot division.
Generals Shang and Ma both withdrew their troops and returned to the court.
Li Guangli was defeated and surrendered to the Huns.
In June, Prime Minister Liu Quyou was imprisoned and beheaded because his wife was involved in witchcraft.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
秋，蝗。
九月，反者公孙勇、胡倩发觉，皆伏辜。
四年春正月，行幸东莱，临大海。
二月丁酉，陨石于雍，二，声闻四百里。
三月，上耕于巨定。
还幸泰山，修封。
庚寅，祀于明堂。
癸巳，禅石闾。
夏六月，还幸甘泉。
秋八月辛酉晦，日有蚀之。
后元元年春正月，行幸甘泉，郊泰畴，遂幸安定。
昌邑王髆薨。
二月，诏曰： 朕郊见上帝，巡于北边，见群鹤留止，以不罗罔，靡所获献。
荐于泰畴，光景并见。
其赦天下。
夏六月，御史大夫商丘成有罪，自杀。
侍中仆射莽河罗与弟重合侯通谋反，侍中驸马都尉金日磾、奉车都尉霍光、骑都尉上官桀讨之。
秋七月，地震，往往涌泉出。
translation: 
In autumn, there was a locust plague.
In September, Gongsun Yong and Hu Qian were found guilty of treason and were executed.
In the first month of spring of the fourth year, I came to Donglai and looked at the sea.
On the third day of February, a meteorite fell in Yongdi, and its sound was heard four hundred miles away.
In March, the emperor plowed the land in person.
On the way back, he climbed Mount Tai and repaired the seal.
On March 26, a sacrifice was held in Mingtang.
On the 29th, sacrifices were made to Shilu Mountain.
In June of summer, I returned to Ganquan.
On August 30th in autumn, a partial solar eclipse occurred.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Hou Yuan Dynasty, he drove to Ganquan to worship the god of Mount Tai in the suburbs, and then came to Anding.
Wang Kun of Changyi passed away.
In February, an edict was issued saying: I saw a spiritual light from heaven during the festival in the suburbs. When I was patrolling to the north, I saw a group of cranes roosting. At that time, it was not the time for trapping and killing, so I did not go hunting.
When worshiping at Taishan Temple, auras and divine shadows appeared together.
Therefore forgive the sinners in the world.
In June of Xia, Shang Qiucheng, the imperial censor, committed suicide.
The servant Shemang Heluo and his younger brother Hou Matong conspired to rebel. The prince-in-law Jin Rishidan, the commander of the carriage, Huo Guang, the commander of the chariot, and Shangguan Jie, the commander of the cavalry, joined forces to conquer.
In autumn and July, there were earthquakes and magma gushes out from time to time.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
二年春正月，朝诸侯王于甘泉宫，赐宗室。
二月，行幸盩厔五柞宫。
乙丑，立皇子弗陵为皇太子。
丁卯，帝崩于五柞宫，入殡于未央宫前殿。
三月甲申，葬茂陵。
赞曰：汉承百王之弊，高祖拨乱反正，文、景务在养民，至于稽古礼文之事，犹多阙焉。
孝武初立，卓然罢黜百家，表章《六经》。遂畴咨海内，举其俊茂，与之立功。
兴太学，修郊祀，改正朔，定历数，协音律，作诗乐，建封禅，礼百神，绍周后，号令文章，焕焉可述。
后嗣得遵洪业，而有三代之风。
如武帝之雄材大略，不改文、景之恭俭以济斯民，虽《诗》、《书》所称，何有加焉！
translation: 
In the spring of the second year and the first month of the first lunar month, all princes and kings came to the emperor in Ganquan Palace, and the emperor rewarded the clan.
In February, I came to Wuzha Palace in Zhouzhi County.
On February 12, Prince Fuling was made the crown prince.
On the 14th, Emperor Wu died in Wuzha Palace. The funeral was held in the front hall of Weiyang.
On the second day of March, he was buried in Maoling.
Ban Gu commented: The Han Dynasty was founded in a turbulent period when heroes were vying for the throne. Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty brought order to the chaos, and Emperor Wen and Emperor Jing made recuperation and recuperation his top priority. However, there was still a lack of achievements in the cultural affairs of ancient rituals.
In the early days of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, he resolutely dismissed hundreds of schools of thought and advocated Confucianism alone. He also sought advice from others, recommended talented people, and gave them opportunities to make contributions.
He established Imperial College, established suburban sacrifices, corrected Shuo, established calendar numbers, and harmonious rhythms, composed poems and music, established Zen confederations, and worshiped hundreds of gods. After inheriting the Zhou Dynasty, he issued orders and articles that can be described in a new way.
Inheriting the great achievements of his ancestors, he has the style of the emperors of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties.
Even if Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty had such a great talent and strategy, and if he did not change Wen Jing's frugality and put the common people on the throne of Renren, even the emperors praised in "Poems" and "Books" could not surpass him.


