Chunk 0: 
original: 
楚元王交字游，高祖同父少弟也。
好书，多材艺。
少时尝与鲁穆生、白生、申公俱受《诗》于浮丘伯。
伯者，孙卿门人也。
及秦焚书，各别去。
高祖兄弟四人，长兄伯，次仲，伯蚤卒。
高祖既为沛公，景驹自立为楚王。
高祖使仲与审食其留侍太上皇，交与萧、曹等俱从高祖见景驹，遇项梁，共立楚怀王。
因西攻南阳，入武关，与秦战于蓝田。
至霸上，封交为文信君，从入蜀汉，还定三秦，诛项籍。
即帝位，交与卢绾常侍上，出入卧内，传言语诸内事隐谋。
而上从父兄刘贾数别将。
汉六年，既废楚王信，分其地为二国，立贾为荆王，交为楚王，王薛郡、东海、彭城三十六县，先有功也。
后封次兄仲为代王，长子肥为齐王。
初，高祖微时，常避事，时时与宾客过其丘嫂食。
嫂厌叔与客来，阳为羹尽，轑釜，客以故去。
已而视鉴中有羹，繇是怨嫂。
及立齐、代王，而伯子独不得侯。
太上皇以为言，高祖曰： 某非敢忘封之也，为其母不长者。
七年十月，封其子信为羹颉侯。
元王既至楚，以穆生、白生、申公为中大夫。
高后时，浮丘伯在长安，元王遣于郢客与申公俱卒业。
文帝时，闻申公为《诗》最精，以为博士。
元王好《诗》，诸子皆读《诗》，申公始为《诗》传，号《鲁诗》。
元王亦次之《诗》传，号曰《元王诗》，世或有之。
高后时，以元王子郢客为宗正，封上邳侯。
元王立二十三年薨，太子辟非先卒，文帝乃以宗正上邳侯郢客嗣，是为夷王。
申公为博士，失官，随郢客归，复以为中大夫。
立四年薨，子戊嗣。
文帝尊宠元王，子生，爵比皇子。
景帝即位，以亲亲封元王宠子五人：子礼为平陆侯，富为休侯，岁为沈犹侯，执为宛朐侯，调为棘乐侯。
初，元王敬礼申公等，穆生不耆酒，元王每置酒，常为穆生设醴。
及王戊即位，常设，后忘设焉。
translation: 
The five kings of Chu were friends with each other, and they were the younger brothers of the same father.
Likes to read and is versatile.
When I was a child, I studied "Poetry" with Ni Qiuyuan together with Lu Musheng, Bai Sheng, Shen Gong and Fu Qiubo.
Fu Qiu Bo is a disciple of Se Qing.
When they arrived in Taiwan to burn books, they dispersed.
There were four Gaozu brothers, the eldest brother Liu Bo and the second brother Liu Zhong. Uncle Liu died early.
Emperor Gaozu became Duke of Pei, and Jing Ju established himself as King of Chu.
Gaozu asked Liu Zhong and Shen Shiqi to stay and serve the emperor. Liu Jiao, Xiao He, Cao Shen and others went with Gaozu to see Jing Ju. They met Xiang Liang and together they supported King Huai of Chu.
So he attacked Nanyang to the west, entered Wuguan, and started a battle with Qin in Lantian.
When he reached Ba Shang, he made Liu Jiao the king of Wenxin, followed him into the Shu Han Dynasty, returned to the Three Qin Dynasty, and killed Xiang Ji.
After ascending to the throne, Liu Jiao and Lu Wan often served the emperor, coming in and out of the bedroom, and conveying various internal affairs secrets to the outside world.
The emperor's cousin Liu Jia led troops to cooperate with the main force in many battles.
In the sixth year of the Han Dynasty, King Xin of Chu was deposed and his territory was divided into two kingdoms. Liu Jia was made King of Jing and Liu Jiao was King of Chu. They ruled thirty-six counties of Xuejun, Donghai and Pengcheng because of their previous meritorious service.
Later, his second brother Liu Zhong was made acting king, and his eldest son Liu Fei was made king of Qi.
At first, when Emperor Gaozu was humble, he often took refuge and ate at his sister-in-law's house with his guests.
My sister-in-law hated her brother-in-law and guests coming, so she pretended that she had finished the soup and scraped the pot with a spoon, so the guests all left.
Emperor Gaozu then saw that there was soup in the pot, so he resented his sister-in-law.
After the kings of Qi and Dai were established, only Liu Bo's son did not get the title of marquis.
The Supreme Emperor spoke for him, and Gaozu said: I dare not forget to confer him a title because his mother is not kind.
In October of the seventh year, Liu Xin, the son of Uncle Liu, was granted the title of Genjiehou.
When King Yuan arrived in Chu, he appointed Mu Sheng, Bai Sheng, and Shen Gong as middle-level officials.
When he was in high school, Uncle Fuqiu was in Chang'an, and King Yuan sent his son Ying Ke to complete his studies with Duke Shen.
During the reign of Emperor Wen, he heard that Shen Gong was the most proficient in studying "Poetry" and he was appointed a doctor.
King Yuan liked "Poems" and all his sons read "Poems". Duke Shen began to write a biography of "Poems", which was called "Lu Shi".
King Yuan also compiled a biography of "Poems", which is called "Poems of King Yuan". There may still be poems by him in the world.
When he was a queen, he ordered Ying Ke, the son of King Yuan, to be Zongzheng and granted the title of Pihou.
King Yuan died in the twenty-third year of his reign, and Prince Pifei died first. Emperor Wen ordered Zongzheng to ascend the throne to Pihou Yingke, who was the king of Yi.
Duke Shen became a doctor and was relieved of his official duties. He went back with Ying Ke and was appointed as a middle doctor.
After reigning for four years, his son Liu Wu succeeded him.
Emperor Wen favored King Yuan, gave birth to a son, and was given the title of Prince Bi.
Emperor Jing ascended the throne and named five of King Yuan's favored sons in the name of relatives: his son Liu Li was the Marquis of Pinglu, Liu Fu was the Marquis of Xiu, Liu Sui was the Marquis of Shen You, Liu Zhi was the Marquis of Wanqu, and Liu Tiao was the Marquis of Jile.
At first, King Yuan respectfully reiterated his dignity, but Musheng did not like drinking. King Yuan often prepared sweet wine for Musheng every time he served wine.
When Wang Liuwu came to the throne, he often prepared it, but later he forgot to put sweet wine.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
穆生退曰： 可以逝矣！
醴酒不设，王之意怠，不去，焚人将钳我于市。
称疾卧。
申公、白生强起之曰： 独不念先王之德与？
今王一旦失小礼，何足至此！
穆生曰： 《易》称 知几其神乎！
几者动之微，吉凶之先见者也。
君子见几而作，不俟终日 。
先王之所以礼吾三人者，为道之存故也；今而忽之，是忘道也。
忘道之人，胡可与久处！
岂为区区之礼哉？
遂谢病去。
申公、白生独留。
王戊稍淫暴，二十年，为薄太后服私奸，削东海、薛郡，乃与吴通谋。
二人谏，不听，胥靡之，衣之赭衣，使杵臼雅舂于市。
休侯使人谏王，王曰： 季父不吾与，我起，先取季父矣。
休侯惧，乃与母太夫人奔京师。
二十一年春，景帝之三年也，削书到，遂应吴王反。
其相张尚、太傅赵夷吾谏，不听。
遂杀尚、夷吾，起兵会吴西攻梁，破棘壁，至昌邑南，与汉将周亚夫战。
汉绝吴、楚粮道，士饥，吴王走，戊自杀，军遂降汉。
汉已平吴、楚，景帝乃立宗正平陆侯礼为楚王，奉元王后，是为文王。
三年薨，子安王道嗣。
二十二年薨，子襄王注嗣。
十二年薨，子节王纯嗣。
十六年薨，子延寿嗣。
宣帝即位，延寿以为广陵王胥武帝子，天下有变必得立，阴欲附倚辅助之，故为其后母弟赵何齐取广陵王女为妻。
与何齐谋曰： 我与广陵王相结，天下不安，发兵助之，使广陵王立，何齐尚公主，列侯可得也。
因使何齐奉书遗广陵王曰： 愿长耳目，毋后人有天下。
何齐父长年上书告之。
事下有司，考验辞服，延寿自杀。
立三十二年，国除。
translation: 
Musheng went back and said: You can go!
If I don't serve sweet wine, the king will be indifferent. If I don't leave, the people of Chu will pin me down in the market.
Said to be ill and bedridden.
Duke Shen and Bai Sheng forced him to get up and said, "Don't you just think about the kindness of the late king?"
Now if the king loses a small courtesy, how could he end up like this!
Musheng said: "Yi" says that it is probably God who knows the omens!
Omens are subtle signs of action and early manifestations of good or bad luck.
A gentleman takes action when he sees signs and does not wait until the last moment.
The reason why the late king treated the three of us courteously was because the Great Way still exists; to ignore it now is to forget the Way.
How can you stay with someone who has forgotten the Tao?
Is it just a small gift?
So he said he was ill and resigned.
Only Shen Gong and Bai Sheng remained.
Wang Liuwu gradually became promiscuous, and for twenty years, he committed adultery in private during the period of mourning for Empress Dowager Bo. Shuhai and Xuejun were reduced, so they secretly communicated with Wu.
The two people refused to listen to the advice and were punished by Xu Mi. They were made to wear ocher clothes and hold a pestle to pound a mortar in the market.
Xiuhou sent someone to remonstrate with the king. The king said: Ji's father does not agree with me. After I rise, I will capture Ji's father first.
Marquis Xiu was afraid, so he fled to the capital with his mother, the eldest lady.
In the spring of the 21st year, which was the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, as soon as the documents to reduce the fiefdoms arrived, they responded to King Yu's rebellion.
His state minister, Tang Shi, and his tutor, Tong Wu, tried to persuade him but refused to listen.
He then killed Chi Shang and Guo Wu, raised his troops and joined the Xing army to attack westward, captured Kuibi, and went to the south of Dandan to start a battle with Dannuo, the company commander.
Choosing to block the food roads of the county and Chu, the soldiers were hungry, the king fled and committed suicide by vomiting, and the army surrendered.
When the Han pacified Wu and Chu, Emperor Jing established Zong Zhengping, Marquis of Lu and Liu Li as King of Chu, succeeding King Yuan, who was King Wen.
Four years after his death, his son Liu Dao, King An, succeeded him.
In the 22nd year of his death, his son Liu Zhu, King of Xiang, succeeded to the throne.
Fourteen years after his death, Liu Chun, the son of Prince Jie, succeeded to the throne.
Sixteen years after his death, his son Yanshou succeeded him.
When Emperor Xuan came to the throne, Yanshou believed that King Guangling Liu Xu was the son of Emperor Wu and would be supported if the world changed. He secretly wanted to rely on him and help him, so he married the daughter of King Guangling for his queen's brother Zhao Heqi.
He and He Qi planned: I will join forces with King Guangling. If there is unrest in the world, we will send troops to help and let King Guangling ascend the throne. He Qi will marry the princess and get the position of a prince.
So He Qi was sent with a letter to King Guangling saying: I hope you will increase your eyes and ears, so that you can conquer the world and not fall behind others.
He Qi's father has been writing to report him for many years.
The matter was brought to the attention of Yousi, who verified that the confession was true and Yanshou committed suicide.
Thirty-two years after its founding, the feudal state was abolished.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
初，休侯富既奔京师，而王戊反，富等皆坐免侯，削属籍。
后闻其数谏戊，乃更封为红侯。
太夫人与窦太后有亲，惩山东之寇，求留京师，诏许之，富子辟强等四人供养，仕于朝。
太夫人薨，赐茔，葬灵户。
富传国至曾孙，无子，绝。
辟强字少卿，亦好读《诗》能属文。
武帝时，以宗室子随二千石论议，冠诸宗室。
清静少欲，常以书自娱，不肯仕。
昭帝即位，或说大将军霍光曰： 将军不见诸吕之事乎？
处伊尹，周公之位，摄政擅权，而背宗室，不与共职，是以天下不信，卒至于灭亡。
今将军当盛位，帝春秋富，宜纳宗室，又多与大臣共事，反诸吕道，如是则可以免患。
光然之，乃择宗室可用者。
辟强子德待诏丞相府，年三十余，欲用之。或言父见在，亦先帝之所宠也。
遂拜辟强为光禄大夫，守长乐卫尉，时年已八十矣。
徙为宗正，数月卒。
德字路叔，修黄、老术，有智略。
少时数言事，召见甘泉宫，武帝谓之 千里驹 。
昭帝初，为宗正丞，杂治刘泽诏狱。
父为宗正，徙大鸿胪丞，迁太中大夫，后复为宗正，杂案上官氏、盖主事。
德常持《老子》 知足 之计。
妻死，大将军光欲以女妻之，德不敢取，畏盛满也。
盖长公主孙谭遮德自信，德数责以公主起居无状。
侍御史以为光望不受女，承指劾德诽谤诏狱，免为庶人，屏居山田。
光闻而恨之，复白召德守青州刺史。
岁余，复为宗正，与立宣帝，以定策赐爵关内侯。
地节中，以亲亲行谨厚封为阳城侯。
子安民为郎中右曹，宗家以德得官宿卫者二十余人。
德宽厚，好施生，每行京兆尹事，多所平反罪人。
translation: 
At first, Liu Fu, the Marquis of Xiu, fled to the capital. Wang Liu Wu rebelled, and Liu Fu and others were dismissed from their positions and their affiliations were removed.
Later, I heard that he had repeatedly advised Liu Wu, so he changed his title to Honghou.
The Dowager Dowager was related to the Empress Dowager Dou. She was afraid of the Shandong bandits and requested to stay in the capital, which was granted by the imperial edict. Liu Fu's son Piqiang and four other people supported her and served as an official in the court.
When the wife passed away, she was given a cemetery and buried in her spiritual household.
Liu Fu passed the kingdom to his great-grandson, but he had no sons and the kingdom was cut off.
Piqiang's courtesy name is Shaoqing. He is also good at reading "Poetry" and can write articles.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, he followed Erqianshi Discussion as a clan son and was the head of each clan.
He is pure in heart and has few desires. He often entertains himself with writing and refuses to be an official.
When Emperor Zhao ascended the throne, someone persuaded the general Huo Guang: Didn't the general see what happened to Zhu Lu?
In the position of Yi Yin and Zhou Gong, he had exclusive regent power, but he betrayed the clan and did not serve with them, so the world did not trust him, and he eventually perished.
Now that the general is in a high position and the emperor is young, he should make more friends with the clan and work more with the ministers. This is contrary to the way of Zhu Lu, so that disaster can be avoided.
Huo Guang thought it was right, so he chose the available people in the clan.
Pi Qiang's son Liu De was staying in the Prime Minister's Palace for a long time. He was in his thirties and wanted to hire him. Some people said that his father was still there and he was favored by the late emperor.
So he worshiped Bi Qiang as Doctor Guanglu and Guardsman of Kenle. He was already eighty years old at that time.
He was promoted to Zongzheng and died within a few months.
Liu De, named Lu Shu, practiced Huang Lao's skills and had strategies.
When he was young, he discussed political affairs many times and was summoned to Ganquan Palace. Emperor Wu called him Qianliju.
In the early years of Emperor Zhao's reign, he became Zong Zhengcheng and participated in the execution of Liu Ze's imperial edict.
Because his father was Ren Zongzheng, he was changed to Dahonglucheng, and then to Taizhong doctor, and later Zongzheng, and participated in the torture of Shangguan family and Gaizhu.
Liu Dechang held the idea of ​​​​"Laozi" that he would always be content with his content.
After his wife died, General Huo Guang wanted to marry his daughter to him, but Liu De did not dare to marry him for fear of being too prosperous.
Tan, the grandson of Princess Gai, stopped Liu De to complain about the incident. Liu De repeatedly blamed the princess for her inappropriate behavior.
The censor thought that Huo Guang resented Liu De for not accepting his daughter, and guessed that he wanted to impeach Liu De for slandering him and send him to prison, so that he could avoid being a commoner and live in seclusion in the mountains and fields.
Huo Guang was very angry when he heard about it, and reported to the emperor to summon Liu De to guard the Qingzhou governor.
More than a year later, he became Zongzheng again and participated in the establishment of Emperor Xuan. For supporting the establishment of the emperor, he was given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
During the Dijie Festival, he was granted the title of Marquis of Yangcheng due to his close behavior.
His son Anmin became the doctor's assistant, and more than 20 people in the clan became officials and guards because of Liu De.
Liu De was a generous man and was willing to do good deeds. Every time he dealt with Jing Zhaoyin's affairs, he often rehabilitated sinners.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
家产过百万，则以振昆弟宾客食饮，曰： 富，民之怨也。
立十一年，子向坐铸伪黄金，当伏法，德上书讼罪。
会薨，大鸿胪奏德讼子罪，失大臣体，不宜赐谥、置嗣。
制曰： 赐谥缪侯，为置嗣。
传至孙庆忌，复为宗正、太常。
薨，子岑嗣，为诸曹中郎将，列校尉，至太常。
薨，传子，至王莽败，乃绝。
向字子政，本名更生。
年十二，以父德任为辇郎。
既冠，以行修饬擢为谏大夫。
是时，宣帝循武帝故事，招选名儒俊材置左右。
更生以通达能属文辞，与王褒、张子侨等并进对，献赋颂凡数十篇。
上复兴神仙方术之事，而淮南有《枕中鸿宝苑秘书》。
书言神仙使鬼物为金之术，及邹衍重道延命方，世人莫见，而更生父德武帝时治淮南狱得其书。
更生幼而读诵，以为奇，献之，言黄金可成。
上令典尚方铸作事，费甚多，方不验。
上乃下更生吏，吏劾更生铸伪黄金，系当死。
更生兄阳城侯安民上书，入国户半，赎更生罪。
上亦奇其材，得逾冬减死论。
会初立《穀梁春秋》，征更生受《穀梁》，讲论《五经》于石渠。
复拜为郎中给事黄门，迁散骑、谏大夫、给事中。
元帝初即位，太傅萧望之为前将军，少傅周堪为诸吏光禄大夫，皆领尚书事，甚见尊任，更生年少于望之、堪，然二人重之，荐更生宗室忠直，明经有行，擢为散骑、宗正给事中，与侍中金敞拾遗于左右。
四人同心辅政，患苦外戚许、史在位放纵，而中书宦官弘恭、石显弄权。
望之、堪、更生议，欲白罢退之。
未白而语泄，遂为许、史及恭、显所谮诉，堪、更生下狱，及望之皆免官。
translation: 
If his family property exceeds one million, he uses it to support his brothers and provide food and drinks for guests, saying: "Wealth is resented by the people."
In the eleventh year of his reign, his son Liu Xiang should be punished for casting fake gold, and Liu De filed a lawsuit.
When he passed away, Dahonglu wrote to Liu De to defend his son's crime. He was unworthy of a minister and should not be given the title of Mi to establish an heir.
Shao Ling said: Give Mi the title of Muhou and establish heirs for him.
When it was passed down to Sun Qingji, he became Zong Zhengtai Chang again.
After his death, his son Liu Cen succeeded to the throne and became a general of Cao Zhonglang, ranking as a school captain. The official arrival is too often.
After death, it was passed down to his son, but when Wang Mang failed, it was discontinued.
Liu Xiang's courtesy name is Zizheng, and his real name is Gengsheng.
When he was twelve years old, he became a chariot man because of his father Liu De'en.
After the crowning ceremony, he was promoted to a doctor of admonishment due to his behavior.
At this time, Emperor Xuan followed the practice of Emperor Wu in the past and recruited famous Confucian and talented people to equip him.
Since Geng Sheng was proficient and able to connect words, he went to the meeting with Wang Guo, Zhang Ziqiao and others to present dozens of poems and poems.
The emperor began to believe in magical alchemy again, and there was "Secretary of Hongbaoyuan in the Pillow" in Huainan.
The book tells about the method of gods instructing ghosts to cast gold, as well as Zou Yan's method of righteousness and longevity. No one in the world can see it, but the reborn father Liu De got it when he was handling the Huainan case during the reign of Emperor Wu.
Gengsheng had read it since he was a child and thought it was strange. He offered it to him and said it could be made into gold.
The emperor ordered him to take charge of Shang Fang's casting, but it cost a lot and the prescription was not effective.
The emperor handed over the reborn to the officials, who impeached the reborn and cast fake gold and sent him to jail to die.
Reincarnation's elder brother, Hou Anmin of Yangcheng, wrote a letter, willing to pay half of the households in the country to atone for Reincarnation's sin.
The emperor also thought he was a genius and punished him by saying that he would have to spend the winter to reduce his death.
Just when he had just established "Guliang Chunqiu" as an academic official, he was recruited to study "Guliang" and lectured on "Five Classics" in Shiqu.
He was also worshiped as a doctor and given to Shi Huangmen. He was promoted to Sanqi, admonished official and given to Shizhong.
Emperor Yuan had just ascended the throne, Taifu Xiao Wangzhi was appointed as the former general, and Young Fu Zhou Kan was appointed as the official Guanglu official. They were both in charge of the secretarial affairs and were highly respected and trusted. Gengsheng was younger than Wangzhi and Zhou Kan, but they thought highly of him and recommended him as a loyal and upright member of the clan, with good knowledge of scriptures. He was promoted to Sanqi Zongzheng, serving as Shizhong, and served as a left and right picker with Jin Chang, the attendant.
The four people worked together to assist in political affairs, but they suffered from the indulgence of their relatives Xu and Shi during their reign, while the eunuchs Honggong and Shi Xian of Zhongshu exercised power.
Wangzhi, Zhou Kan and Gengsheng discussed it and planned to report to the emperor to remove them.
His words were leaked without a report, and he was falsely accused by Xu, Shi, Honggong, and Shi Xian. Zhou Kan and Gengsheng were sent to prison, and He Wangzhi was dismissed from office.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
语在《望之传》。
其春地震，夏，客星见昴、卷舌间。
上感悟，下诏赐望之爵关内侯，奉朝请。
秋，征堪、向，欲以为谏大夫，恭、显白皆为中郎。
冬，地复震。
时恭、显、许、史子弟侍中诸曹，皆侧目于望之等，更生惧焉，乃使其外亲上变事，言：
窃闻故前将军萧望之等，皆忠正无私，欲致大治，忤于贵戚尚书。
今道路人闻望之等复进，以为且复见毁谗，必曰尝有过之臣不宜复用，是大不然。
臣闻春秋地震，为在位执政太盛也，不为三独夫动，亦已明矣。
且往者高皇帝时，季布有罪，至于夷灭，后赦以为将军，高后、孝文之间卒为名臣。
孝武帝时，皃宽有重罪系，按道侯韩说谏曰： 前吾丘寿王死，陛下至今恨之；今杀宽，后将复大恨矣！
上感其言，遂贳宽，复用之，位至御史大夫，御史大夫未有及宽者也。
又董仲舒坐私为灾异书，主父偃取奏之，下吏，罪至不道，幸蒙不诛，复为太中大夫、胶西相，以老病免归。
汉有所欲兴，常有诏问。
仲舒为世儒宗，定议有益天下。
孝宣皇帝时，夏侯胜坐诽谤系狱三年，免为庶人。
宣帝复用胜，至长信少府、太子太傅，名敢直言，天下美之。
若乃群臣，多此比类，难一二记。
有过之臣，无负国家，有益天下，此四臣者，足以观矣。
前弘恭奏望之等狱决，三月，地大震。
恭移病出，后复视事，天阴雨雪。由是言之，地动殆为恭等。
臣愚以为宜退恭、显以章蔽善之罚，进望之等以通贤者之路。
如此，太平之门开，灾异之原塞矣。
书奏，恭、显疑其更生所为，白请考奸诈。
辞果服，遂逮更生系狱，下太傅韦玄成、谏大夫贡禹，与廷尉杂考。
劾更生前为九卿，坐与望之、堪谋排车骑将军高、许、史氏侍中者，毁离亲戚，欲退去之，而独专权。
为臣不忠，幸不伏诛，复蒙恩征用，不悔前过，而教令人言变事，诬罔不道。
translation: 
The matter is in "The Story of Hope".
That spring there was an earthquake, and in the summer a guest star appeared between Pleiades and Sekitongue.
The emperor realized something and issued an edict to grant Wang the title of Marquis of Guannei at the invitation of the court.
In the autumn, Zhou Kan and Liu Xiang were recruited and wanted to be appointed as admonishing officials. Hong Gong and Shi Xian reported to them and they were both made Zhonglang.
In winter, the ground shook again.
At that time, the disciples of Hong Gong, Shi Xian, Xu and Shi all looked sideways at Wang Zhi and became more afraid, so they asked his foreign relatives to write a letter about the extraordinary situation, saying:
I heard privately about the former general Xiao Wangzhi and others. They are all loyal and selfless, and want to achieve great governance in the world, but they offend the noble minister.
Now when people on the road hear that Wang Zhi and others have become officials again, and think that they will be framed again, they will definitely say that ministers who have made mistakes should not be used again. This is very wrong.
I heard that the earthquake in the Spring and Autumn Period was because the people in power were too powerful, not because of three ordinary men, and I already understood it.
Moreover, during the reign of Emperor Gao, Ji Bu was guilty and had his clan exterminated. Later, he was pardoned and appointed as a general, and finally became a famous official among Empress Gao and Xiaowen.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, Ni Kuan was imprisoned for a serious crime. According to Daohou Han, he remonstrated: "My Majesty, King Qiu Shou, died before, and your Majesty still regrets it; now that you kill Ni Kuan, you will regret it greatly in the future!"
The emperor was moved by his words, so he pardoned Ni Kuan and appointed him to the position of imperial censor. There was no other censor who could compare with Ni Kuan.
Dong Zhongshu also committed a crime due to privately causing disasters and writings. The master's father reported the matter to the officials and handed it over to the officials for trial. The crime was found to be unjust. Fortunately, he was spared from execution. He became a Taizhong doctor and the Prime Minister of Jiaoxi. He was dismissed from his post because of old age and illness.
The Han Dynasty often issued edicts to ask him about the reform of the charter system.
Zhongshu is the world's master of Confucianism, and his participation in the review and discussion is beneficial to the world.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaoxuan, Xia Housheng was imprisoned for three years for slander and was exempted from being a commoner.
Emperor Xuan also appointed Xia Housheng, the official to the Shaofu, Changxin, and the prince and tutor. He was famous for his outspokenness, and the world praised him.
Most of the ministers like this are similar to this, and it is difficult to describe them one by one.
A minister with faults will live up to the country and benefit the world. This is enough to see from these four ministers.
In the past, when Hong Gong submitted a memorial to Wangzhi and other cases for judgment, there was a major earthquake in March.
Hong Gong wrote a letter saying that he was ill and left the official position, and later he took office again. It was cloudy and snowing. From this point of view, the earthquake was probably caused by Hong Gong and others.
Chen Yu believes that Hong Gong and Shi Xian should be reprimanded to show the punishment for covering up their virtues, and Jin should use Wang Zhi and others to lead the path of sages.
In this way, peace will be widened and the source of disasters will be blocked.
After the report was written, Hong Gong and Shi Xian suspected that it was Reincarnation who had committed the crime, so they asked him to torture the treacherous person.
Sure enough, he confessed, so he was arrested and imprisoned. He was handed over to Tai Fu Wei Xuancheng, admonishment official Gong Yu, and the court officers for torture.
When he was the ninth minister before the impeachment and reformation, he was convicted of scheming with Wangzhi and Zhou Kan to exclude the chariot generals Gao, Xu, and Shi's servants. He slandered his relatives and wanted to repel them and monopolize power alone.
He was a disloyal minister, but he was lucky enough not to be killed, and was requisitioned by grace. He did not repent of his past mistakes, but taught others to say extraordinary things, framed and slandered, and was treasonous.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
更生坐免为庶人。
而望之亦坐使子上书自冤前事，恭、显白令诣狱置对。
望之自杀。
天子甚悼恨之，乃擢周堪为光禄勋，堪弟子张猛光禄大夫、给事中，大见信任。
恭、显惮之，数谮毁焉。更生见堪、猛在位，几已得复进，惧其倾危，乃上封事谏曰：
臣前幸得以骨肉备九卿，奉法不谨，乃复蒙恩。
窃见灾异并起，天地失常，征表为国。
欲终不言，念忠臣虽在甽亩，犹不忘君，忄卷々之义也。
况重以骨肉之亲，又加以旧恩未报乎！
欲竭愚诚，又恐越职，然惟二恩未报，忠臣之义，一杼愚意，退就农亩，死无所恨。
臣闻舜命九官，济济相让，和之至也。
众贤和于朝，则万物和于野。
故箫《韶》九成，而凤皇来仪；击石拊石，百兽率舞。
四海之内，靡不和定。
及至周文，开墓西郊，杂遝众贤，罔不肃和，崇推让之风，以销分争之讼。
文王既没，周公思慕，歌咏文王之德，其《诗》曰： 于穆清庙，肃雍显相；济济多士，秉文之德。
当此之时，武王、周公继政，朝臣和于内，万国欢于外，故尽得其欢心，以事其先祖。
其《诗》曰： 有来雍雍，至止肃肃，相维辟公，天子穆穆。
言四方皆以和来也。
诸侯和于下，天应报于上，故《周颂》曰 降福穰穰 ，又曰 饴我釐麰 ，釐麰，大麦也，始自天降。
此皆以和致和，获天助也。
下至幽、厉之际，朝廷不和，转相非怨，诗人疾而忧之曰： 民之无良，相怨一方。
众小在位而从邪议，歙歙相是而背君子，故其《诗》曰 歙歙訿々，亦孔之哀！
谋之其臧，则具是违；谋之不臧，则具是依！
君子独处守正，不桡众枉，勉强以从王事则反见憎毒谗诉，故其《诗》曰： 密勿从事，不敢告劳，无罪无辜，谗口嗷嗷！
translation: 
Reborn as a commoner due to sin.
Wangzhi was also convicted of asking his son to write a letter to redress his grievances. Hong Gong and Shi Xian reported to him that he should go to prison to express his grievances.
Hope to commit suicide.
The emperor felt very remorseful and promoted Zhou Kan to the position of Guanglu Xun. Zhang Meng, Zhou Kan's disciple, became the Guanglu doctor and was trusted by Shizhong.
Hong Gong and Shi Xian were afraid and slandered them several times. Seeing that Zhou Kan and Zhang Meng were in power when they were reincarnated, they hoped that they could be used again. They were afraid that they would overthrow them, so they went to Fengshi to remonstrate:
I was fortunate enough to have a flesh-and-blood relative named Jiu Qing, but I was not cautious in enforcing the law, so I was favored again.
Privately, I saw disasters happening one after another, and the world was out of order, seemingly because of the country.
I wanted not to say it in the end, but I also thought that even if a loyal minister is working at home and farming, he still does not forget the king, which is the righteousness of loyalty.
What’s more, there is also the kinship between flesh and blood, plus the unrequited old kindness!
I wanted to be as honest as possible, but I was afraid of going beyond my duty. However, thinking of the two unpaid kindnesses and the loyalty of my ministers, my foolishness aroused me and I retreated to the farmland. I died without any regrets.
I heard that Shun appointed nine officials, and all the officials gave way to each other, and there was great harmony.
If all the sages are in harmony in the court, then all things will be in harmony in the wilderness.
Therefore, when the flute plays "Shao" nine times, the phoenix flies; when the bell rings and the chime is struck, all the beasts come and dance.
There is no disharmony within the four seas.
When Zhou Wen arrived, the foundation was opened in the western suburbs, and all the sages gathered. There was no one who did not respect harmony, advocated the custom of giving in, and eliminated disputes and lawsuits.
When King Wen passed away, Duke Zhou missed him and praised King Wen's virtues. The "Poetry" said: The beautiful Qing Temple is solemn and harmonious, and famous officials and officials come to participate in the sacrifice; many scholars carry out King Wen's virtues.
At this time, King Wu and Duke Zhou inherited the political affairs, the courtiers were in harmony at home, and all the countries were happy abroad, so they were able to win their favor and serve their ancestors.
"Poetry" says: The guests come in harmony, and when they arrive, they pay homage and offer sacrifices. The princes are connected continuously, and the emperor is dignified and magnificent.
It is said that peace comes from all directions.
The princes are in harmony below, and heaven will retaliate above. Therefore, "Ode to the Zhou Dynasty" says, "Blessings will be many," and it also says, "Give me Lili." Lizi, the wheat, first fell from the sky.
This is all achieved through the use of harmony and the blessing of God.
Later, during the period of You and Li, the court was at odds with each other, and the poet said sadly and worriedly: People do not do good deeds, keep to themselves, and resent each other.
When villains are in power, they obey evil opinions, and competing with each other is a traitor, and betrays the noble man. Therefore, the "Poetry" says: Competing with friends is a traitor, and slandering each other, how sad!
If you plan something good, go against it; if you plan something bad, follow it!
A gentleman sticks to justice alone and does not give in to public criticism. He works hard to do kingly things but is hated and framed. Therefore, the "Poetry" says: He acts diligently and dares not to tell himself about his hard work. He has no sin, but is framed by everyone!


Chunk 6: 
original: 
当是之时，日月薄蚀而无光，其《诗》曰： 朔日辛卯，日有蚀之，亦孔之丑！ 又曰： 彼月而微，此日而微，今此下民，亦孔之哀！ 又曰： 日月鞠凶，不用其行；四国无政，不用其良！
天变见于上，地变动于下，水泉沸腾，山谷易处。
其《诗》曰： 百川沸腾，山冢卒崩，高岸为谷，深谷为陵。
哀今之人，胡憯莫惩！
霜降失节，不以其时，其《诗》曰： 正月繁霜，我心忧伤；民之讹言，亦孔之将！
言民以是为非，甚众大也。
此皆不和，贤不肖易位之所致也。
自此之后，天下大乱，篡杀殃祸并作，厉王奔彘，幽王见杀。至乎平王末年，鲁隐之始即位也，周大夫祭伯乖离不和，出奔于鲁，而《春秋》为讳，不言来奔，伤其祸殃自此始也。
是后尹氏世卿而专恣，诸侯背畔而不朝，周室卑微。
二百四十二年之间，日食三十六，地震五，山陵崩阤二，彗星三见，夜常星不见，夜中星陨如雨一，火灾十四。
长狄入三国，五石陨坠，六皃鸟退飞，多麋，有蜮、蜚，鸲鹆来巢者，皆一见。
李梅冬实。
七月霜降，草木不死。
八月杀菽。
大雨雹。
雨雪雷霆失序相乘。
水、旱、饥、蝝、螽、螟蜂午并起。
当是时，祸乱辄应，弑君三十六，亡国五十二，诸侯奔走，不得保其社稷者，不可胜数也。
周室多祸：晋败其师于贸戎；伐其郊；郑伤桓王；戎执其使；卫侯朔召不住，齐逆命而助朔；五大夫争权，三君更立，莫能正理。
遂至陵夷不能复兴。
由此观之，和气致祥，乖气致异；祥多者其国安，异众者其国危，天地之常经，古今之通义也。
今陛下开三代之业，招文学之士，优游宽容，使得并进。
今贤不肖浑殽，白黑不分，邪正杂糅，忠谗并进。
章交公车，人满北军。
translation: 
At this time, the moon is eclipsed and has no light. "Poetry" says: On the first day of the lunar month and at the end of the lunar month, there is an eclipse, how ugly it is! He also said: The moon is dim, the sun is dim, how sad are these people now?
The changes in the sky appear above, the changes in the earth move below, the springs boil, and the valleys shift.
"Poetry" says: Hundreds of rivers are boiling, mountain tops are cracking, high banks have become low valleys, and deep valleys have become mountains.
How can those who mourn now not be punished!
The frost falls out of control and does not follow the season. "Poetry" says: There is a lot of frost in the first month, and my heart is sad; people's lies are too powerful!
There are many people who say that they mistake right for wrong.
These are all caused by disharmony, the transformation of virtuous and unfaithful people.
From then on, the world was in chaos, usurpation and murder occurred. King Li fled to pig, and King You was killed. In the last years of King Ping, when Lu Ying just ascended the throne, Dr. Zhou broke away from his brother-in-law and ran away to Lu. However, the "Spring and Autumn" evaded taboos for him and did not say that he came to run. This was the beginning of sad disasters.
From then on, the Yin family's ministers had exclusive power and unbridled power for generations. The princes betrayed the Zhou Dynasty and refused to worship, and the Zhou family was humble.
During the two hundred and forty-two years, there were thirty-six solar eclipses, five earthquakes, two mountain collapses, three comets, no stars at night, one night of stars falling like rain, and fourteen fires.
Changdi entered three countries, five meteorites fell, six hawks flew upside down, there were many elk, worms, worms, gulls and swans came to build their nests, all appeared once.
The day is dark and the trees are frozen. Plums and plums bear fruit in winter.
Frost falls in July, but the vegetation does not die.
Beans freeze to death in August.
Heavy hail fell.
Rain, snow, and thunder mingled in no order.
Disasters such as floods, droughts, hunger, crickets, katydids, borers and other disasters occurred one after another.
At this time, disasters appeared correspondingly. Thirty-six kings were killed, fifty-two kingdoms were destroyed, and the princes fled, unable to save the country.
There were many disasters in the Zhou Dynasty: Jin defeated its army at Maorong and attacked its suburbs; Zheng injured King Huan; Rong arrested its envoys; Wei Marquis Shuo was unable to recruit, but Qi violated the king's order to help Shuo; five officials fought for power, and three monarchs took turns to take the throne, and no one could rectify it.
As a result, it declines and cannot be revived.
From this point of view, harmony leads to auspiciousness; misbehavior leads to disasters; a country with more auspiciousness will be peaceful, and a country with many disasters will be in danger. This is the common law of heaven and earth and the universal meaning of ancient and modern times.
Now His Majesty has created the achievements of three generations, recruiting literary people, being tolerant to others, and allowing them to work together.
Nowadays, the virtuous and the unworthy are confused, there is no distinction between black and white, good and evil are mixed, and loyal and slanderous words are used together.
The memorial was handed over to the bus, and the prisoners were filled with Northern troops.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
朝臣舛午，胶戾乖刺，更相谗诉，转相是非。
傅授增加，交书纷纠，前后错缪，毁与浑乱。
所以营感耳目，感移心意，不可胜载。
分曹为党，往往群朋，将同心以陷正臣。
正臣进者，治之表也；正臣陷者，乱之机也。
乘治乱之机，未知孰任，而灾异数见，此臣所以寒心者也。
夫乘权借势之人，子弟鳞集于朝，羽翼阴附者众，辐凑于前，毁与将必用，以终乖离之咎。
是以日月无光，雪霜夏陨，海水沸出，陵谷易处，列星失行，皆怨气之所致也。
夫遵衰周之轨迹，循诗人之所刺，而欲以成太平，致雅颂，犹却行而求及前人也。
初元以来六年矣，案《春秋》六年之中，灾异未有稠如今者也。
夫有《春秋》之异，无孔子之救，犹不能解纷，况甚于《春秋》乎？
原其所以然者，谗邪并进也。
谗邪之所以并进者，由上多疑心，既已用贤人而行善政，如或谮之，则贤人退而善政还。
夫执狐疑之心者，来谗贼之口；持不断之意者，开群枉之门。
义邪进则众贤退，群枉盛则正士消。
故《易》有 否、 泰 。
小人道长，君子道消，君子道消，则政日乱，故为 否 。
否者，闭而乱也。
君子道长，小人道消，小人道消，则政日治，故为 泰 。
泰者，通而治也。
《诗》又云 雨雪麃麃，见晛聿消 ，与《易》同义。
昔者鲧、共工、驩兜与舜、禹杂处尧朝，周公与管、蔡并居周位，当是时，迭进相毁，流言相谤，岂可胜道哉！
帝尧、成王能贤舜、禹、周公而消共工、管、蔡，故以大治，荣华至今。
孔子与季、孟偕仕于鱼，李斯与叔孙俱宦于秦，定公、始皇贤季、孟、李斯而消孔子、叔孙，故以大乱，污辱至今。
translation: 
The courtiers were at odds with each other, contradicted each other, and framed and accused each other.
There were more professors, clerical disputes, mistakes, and a mixture of reputation and reputation.
There are countless things used to confuse the ears and eyes and divert the mind.
Divide into groups and form parties, rely on them everywhere to form a party, and work together to frame upright ministers.
When an upright minister is employed, it is a sign of governance; when an upright minister is framed, it is a sign of chaos.
Taking advantage of this time of chaos, I don't know who to appoint, and disasters occur many times. This is depressing for me.
For those who rely on power, their children are listed in the court like fish scales, and there are many people clinging to them on the left and right. If they gather in front of them, they will definitely be used to criticize and praise them, and in the end, disaster will occur due to their betrayal.
Therefore, the sun and the moon lack light, the frost and snow fall in summer, the sea water boils out, the valleys shift, and the stars move abnormally, all are caused by resentment.
Following the path of the declining Zhou Dynasty, acting according to what the poet ridiculed, but wanting to achieve peace and elegance, making achievements is like walking backward but wanting to be ahead of others.
It has been six years since the early Yuan Dynasty. During the six years of studying the Spring and Autumn Annals, there have not been as many disasters as there are now.
There are disasters in the Spring and Autumn Period, but without Confucius' help, the problem cannot be solved, let alone the Spring and Autumn Period?
The reason why this is so is because the slanderous evil spirits work together.
The reason why slander and evil are used together is because the emperor is suspicious and has appointed wise men to implement good governance. If someone makes false accusations, the wise men will rebuke and good governance will be taken back.
Having a suspicious mind will attract slander and thieves; having an indecisive will will open the door to evil.
When slanderous and evil people advance, they must be repeled by the wise. When the number of evil people increases and the number of upright people decreases, they will be reduced.
So "Yi" has "No" and "Tai".
When the villain's way grows, the gentleman's way decreases, and when the gentleman's way decreases, politics will become increasingly chaotic, so whether it is.
No, it is closed and chaotic.
When the way of a gentleman grows and the way of a villain diminishes, politics will become increasingly stable, so it is Tai.
Tai means understanding and stability.
"Poetry" also said that rain and snow fell one after another, and they were all gone when the sun rose without clouds, which is synonymous with "Yi".
In the past, Gonggong, Jidou, Shun and Yu were in the court of Yao, and the Duke of Zhou, Guan and Cai were serving in the Zhou Dynasty. At this time, people took turns to slander each other, and there was no end to the rumors and slander!
Emperor Yao and King Cheng were able to advance and employ Shun, Yu, and Zhou Gong while excluding Gonggong, Guan, and Cai, so they had great rule and prosperity to this day.
Confucius, Ji and Meng all served as officials in Lu, and Li Si and his uncles and grandsons all served in Qin. Dinggong and Shihuang appointed Ji, Meng, and Li Si to the exclusion of Confucius and his uncles, so they were in chaos and have been humiliated to this day.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
故治乱荣辱之端，在所信任；信任既贤，在于坚固而不移。
《诗》云 我心匪石，不可转也 ，言守善笃也。
《易》曰 涣汗其大号 ，言号令如汗，汗出而不反者也。
今出善令，未能逾时而反，是反汗也；用贤未能三旬而退，是转石也。
《论语》曰： 见不善如探汤。
今二府奏佞谄不当在位，历年而不去。
做出令则如反汗，用贤则如转石，去佞则如拔山，如此望阴阳之调，不亦难乎！
是以群小窥见间隙，缘饰文字，巧言丑诋，流言飞文，哗于民间。
故《诗》云： 忧心悄悄，愠于群小。
小人成群，诚足愠也。
昔孔子与颜渊、子贡更相称誉，不为朋党；禹、稷与皋陶传相汲引，不为比周。
何则？
忠于为国，无邪心也。
故贤人在上位，则引其类而聚之于朝，《易》曰 飞龙在天，大人聚也 ；在下位，则思与其类俱进，《易》曰 拔茅茹以其汇，征吉 。
在上则引其类，在下则推其类，故汤用伊尹，不仁者远，而众贤至，类相致也。
今佞邪与贤臣并在交戟之内，合党共谋，违善依恶，歙歙訿々，数设危险之言，欲以倾移主上。如忽然用之，此天地之所以先戒，灾异之所以重至者也。
自古明圣，未有无诛而治者也，故舜有四放之罚，而孔子有两观之诛，然后圣化可得而行也。
今以陛下明知，诚深思天地之心，迹察两观之诛，览 否 、 泰 之卦，观雨雪之诗，历周、唐之所进以为法，原秦、鲁之所消以为戒，考祥应之福，省灾异之祸，以揆当世之变，放远佞邪之党，坏散险诐之聚，杜闭群枉之门，广开众正之路，决断狐疑，分别犹豫，使是非炳然可知，则百异消灭，而众祥并至，太平之基，万世之利也。
translation: 
Therefore, the beginning of honor and disgrace in ordering chaos lies in the people you trust; since those you trust are already talented people, it lies in their steadfastness.
"Poetry" says that my heart is not a stone and cannot be transferred by others. It means being kind and sincere.
"Yi" says: "I give orders as easily as sweating." It means that giving orders is like sweating. When you sweat, you cannot return.
Now that a good order has been issued and then withdrawn within three months, this is taking back what has been done; if a wise minister is dismissed within thirty years, it is turning a stone.
The Analects of Confucius says: Seeing evil is like testing boiling water.
Now the two palaces are reporting that the person who flatters the sycophants should not be in office, and they will not be rejected after several years.
Therefore, issuing orders is like withdrawing sweat, appointing wise men is like turning stones, and rejecting traitors is like uprooting mountains. Isn't it difficult to hope for the harmony of yin and yang like this?
Therefore, villains peek into the gaps, modify words, use clever words to slander, create rumors, make anonymous documents to slander others, and make noise among the people.
Therefore, the "Poetry" says: I am worried and resentful of the many villains in my heart.
The crowd of villains is indeed hateful.
In the past, Confucius, Yan Yuan and Zigong praised each other and did not form cliques; Yu, Ji and Gaotao recommended each other and did not form cliques for personal gain.
Why?
It's because they are loyal to the country and have no evil intentions.
Therefore, when a sage is in a superior position, he will introduce his kind to gather in the court. "Yi" says, "The flying dragon is in the sky, and the adults gather together."
Those who are above will recommend their kind, and those below will recommend their kind. Therefore, Tang appoints Yi Yin, and the unkind ones stay away, and all the wise people come. This is because they are similar and attract each other.
Now the evil ministers and the virtuous ministers are together in the palace, gathering together to conspire, disobeying good and relying on evil, forming cliques and slanders, and making many scaremongerings, hoping to make the Lord obey his will. If they are accidentally used, it will be the reason why heaven and earth warn in advance and disasters come one after another.
Since ancient times, all wise and sage kings have achieved stability without killing good people. Therefore, Shun had the punishment of banishing the four bad guys, and Confucius had the punishment of killing in two views, and then the holy virtues and education could be implemented.
Now rely on your majesty's wisdom, sincerely ponder the heart of heaven and earth, examine it according to the traces of the killing of two views, look at the hexagrams of "No" and "Tai", examine the poems of rain and snow, choose how Zhou and Tang used talents as a method, think about how Qin and Lu discarded talents as a warning, examine the blessings of good omen, and reflect on disasters Disasters of difference are used to measure the changes of the day. Banish the evil party, break up the dangerous gathering, close the door of the evil group, open the path of righteousness, make decisions and doubts, distinguish hesitations, make right and wrong clear, then you can eliminate many disasters, and all kinds of auspiciousness will come together. This is the foundation of peace and the welfare of all generations.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
臣幸得托肺附，诚见阴阳不调，不敢不通所闻。
窃推《春秋》灾异，以救今事一二，条其所以，不宜宣泄。
臣谨重封昧死上。
恭、显见其书，愈与许、史比而怨更生等。
堪性公方，自见孤立，遂直道而不曲。
是岁夏寒，日青无光，恭、显及许、史皆言堪、猛用事之咎。
上内重堪，又患众口之浸润，无所取信。
时长安令杨兴以材能幸，常称誉堪。
上欲以为助，乃见问兴： 朝臣龂龂不可光禄勋，何邪？
兴者，倾巧士，谓上疑堪，因顺指曰： 堪非独不可于朝廷，自州里亦不可也。
臣见众人闻堪前与刘更生等谋毁骨肉，以为当诛，故臣前言堪不可诛伤，为国养恩也。
上曰： 然此何罪而诛？
今宜奈何？
兴曰： 臣愚以为可赐爵关内侯，食邑三百户，勿令典事。
明主不失师傅之恩，此最策之得者也。
上于是疑。
会城门校尉诸葛丰亦言堪、猛短，上因发怒免丰。
语在其传。
又曰： 丰言堪、猛贞信不立，联闵而不治，又惜其材能未有所效，其左迁堪为河东太守，猛槐里令。
显等专权日甚。
后三岁余，孝宣庙阙灾，其晦，日有蚀之。
于是上召诸前言日变在堪、猛者责问，皆稽首谢。
乃因下诏曰： 河东太守堪，先帝贤之，命而傅联。
资质淑茂，道术通明，论议正直，秉心有常，发愤悃愊，信有忧国之心。
以不能阿尊事贵，孤特寡助，抑厌遂退，卒不克明。
往者众臣见异，不务自修，深惟其故，而反晻昧说天，托咎此人。
联不得已，出而试之，以彰其材。
堪出之后，大变仍臻，众亦嘿然。
堪治未期年，而三老官属有识之士咏颂其美，使者过郡，靡人不称。此固足以彰先帝之知人，而联有以自明也。
俗人乃造端作基，非议诋欺，或引幽隐，非所宜明，意疑以类，欲以陷之，联亦不取也。
联迫于俗，不得专心，乃者天著大异，联甚惧焉。
今堪年衰岁幕，恐不得自信，排于异人，将安究之哉？
其征堪诣行在所。
translation: 
I am fortunate enough to be able to rely on relatives of the emperor. I have indeed seen the imbalance of yin and yang, and I dare not not report what I heard to the emperor.
I privately speculate on the disasters and disasters in the Spring and Autumn Annals to help with current events, and list the reasons in separate sections, which is not suitable for disclosure.
I would like to risk my life and submit it in a sealed seal.
When Hong Gong and Shi Xian saw his petition, they colluded with Xu and Shi and resented him.
Zhou Kan has a fair and upright temperament. Seeing that he is isolated, he will act in accordance with the right path and not go against the grain.
This summer was cold and the sun was blue and dull. Hong Gong, Shi Xian, Xu and Shi all said that Zhou Kan and Zhang Meng were in power wrong.
The emperor thought highly of Zhou, but he was also suffering from the infiltration of public opinion and was at a loss as to what to do.
At that time, Chang'an ordered Yang Xing to be favored because of his talents and often praised Zhou Kan.
The emperor wanted him to help, so he summoned Yang Xingjian and said, "The courtiers are angry and don't tolerate Guang Luxun. Why?"
Yang Xing was a cunning man and thought that the emperor was suspicious of Zhou Kan, so he obeyed the order and said: "Zhou Kan is not only not allowed in the court, but also in the state."
I saw that everyone heard that Zhou Kan had conspired with Liu Gengsheng and others before, and thought he should be killed. Therefore, I said before that Zhou Kan should not be killed because he was doing favors for the country.
The emperor said: But what crime has this committed that warrants execution?
What to do now?
Yang Xing said: I think I can confer the title of Marquis of Guannei with the title of Marquis of Guannei and a settlement of 300 households without letting him take charge of affairs.
It is the most appropriate strategy for Mingzhu not to lose his master's kindness.
The emperor then became suspicious.
When Zhuge Feng, the captain of the city gate school, also spoke ill of Zhou Kan and Zhang Meng, the emperor became angry and dismissed Zhuge Feng from his post.
It's all about his passing.
He also said: Zhuge Feng said that Zhou Kan and Zhang did not behave upright and honest. I did not take pity on them, and it was a pity that their talents could not be put to use. Zhou Kan was demoted to the governor of Hedong and Zhang Meng to the order of Huaili.
The dictatorship of Shi Xian and others was even more powerful.
More than three years later, a fire broke out in Xiaoxuan Temple, and there was a solar eclipse on the last day of this month.
So Zaoshang summoned several people who had said that the sun's change was due to Zhou Kan and Zhang Meng, and they all apologized.
So Xia Shao said: "Zhou Kan, the governor of Hedong, the late emperor respected him and appointed him to be my master."
He has good character, is proficient in Taoism, has integrity in discussion, has perseverance, is sincere and energetic, and truly cares about the country.
Because he cannot flatter the powerful, he is lonely and helpless, his progress and retreat are suppressed, and he ultimately cannot prosper.
In the past, when the ministers saw the disaster, they did not devote themselves to self-cultivation and ponder the cause. Instead, they talked about the natural disaster in a confused way and blamed this person.
I had no choice but to demote him from the court to test him and show his talents.
After Zhou Kan went out, big changes happened again and everyone fell silent.
Zhou Kan had been in power for less than a year, and the three old officials and knowledgeable people praised his virtues. When envoys passed through the county, no one did not praise him. This is enough to show that the late emperor understood talents, and I understand it myself.
The common people then created troubles, criticized and slandered, some of which were tortuous and obscure, and could not be discussed clearly. They also suspected others of the same kind and wanted to harm him, but I did not take any action.
I am forced by the world and cannot concentrate. Previously, there was a disaster in the sky, and I was very frightened.
Now that Zhou Kan is getting old, he may not be able to explain himself. What will he do if he is ostracized by others?
Zhou Kan was summoned to the court.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
拜为光禄大夫，秩中二千石，领尚书事。
猛复为太中大夫给事中。
显干尚书事，尚书五人，皆其党也。
堪希得见，常因显白事，事决显口。
会堪疾瘖，不能言而卒。
显诬谮猛，令自杀于公车。
更生伤之，乃著《疾谗》、《擿要》、《救危》及《世颂》，凡八篇，依兴古事，悼己及同类也。
遂废十余年。
成帝即位，显等伏辜，更生乃复进用，更名向。
向以故九卿召拜为中郎，使领护三辅都水。
数奏封事，迁光禄大夫。
是时，帝元舅阳平侯王凤为大将军，秉政，倚太后，专国权，兄弟七人皆封为列侯。
时数有大异，向以为外戚贵盛，凤兄弟用事之咎。
而上方精于《诗》、《书》，观古文，诏向领校中《五经》秘书。
向见《尚书·洪范》，箕子为武王陈五行阴阳休咎之应。
向乃集合上古以来历春秋六国至秦、汉符瑞灾异之记，推迹行事，连传祸福，著其占验，比类相从，各有条目，凡十一篇，号曰《洪范五行传论》，奏之。
天子心知向忠精，故为凤兄弟起此论也，然终不能夺王氏权。
久之，营起昌陵，数年不成，复还归延陵，制度泰奢。
向上蔬谏曰：
臣闻《易》曰： 安不忘危，存不忘亡，是以身安而国家可保也。
故贤圣之君，博观终始，穷极事情，而是非分明。
王者必通三统，明天命所授者博，非独一姓也。
孔子论《诗》，至于 殷士肤敏，裸将于京 ，喟然叹曰： 大哉天命！
善不可不传于子孙，是以富贵无常；不如是，则王公其何以戒慎，民萌何以劝勉？
盖伤微子之事周，而痛殷之亡也。
虽有尧、舜之圣，不能化丹朱之子；虽有禹、汤之德，不能训未孙之桀、纣。
translation: 
He was worshiped as Doctor Guanglu, with a rank of two thousand stones, and was in charge of the secretarial affairs.
Zhang Meng became Taizhong's doctor again and served Shizhong.
Shi Xian was in charge of Shangshu affairs, and the five Shangshu were all members of his party.
Zhou Kan rarely saw the emperor, and often communicated through Shi Xian, and all matters were decided through Shi Xian's mouth.
Zhou Kan fell ill with mute disease and died after being unable to speak.
Genti framed him so fiercely that he committed suicide on the bus.
Reincarnation was very painful, so he wrote eight chapters in total, including "Slander", "Essays", "Rescue" and "Ode to the World", using ancient metaphors to express condolences for himself and his kind.
So it was abandoned for more than ten years.
When Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, Shi Xian and others confessed their crimes, so he was reincarnated and used it again, changing his name to Xiang.
Liu Xiang summoned him as Zhonglang as his former Jiuqing, and asked him to lead and protect the three auxiliaries in the capital.
He submitted sealed chapters many times and was promoted to Doctor Guanglu.
At this time, the emperor's uncle Wang Feng, Marquis of Yangping, became the general in charge of the government. He relied on the Queen Mother and specialized in state power. All seven brothers were granted the title of marquis.
There were many major disasters at that time, and Liu Xiang believed that it was the fault of his relatives Guisheng and Wang Feng brothers who were in power.
The emperor was carefully studying "Poems" and "Books", reading ancient texts on the blackboard, and ordered Liu Xiang to be the secretary of the "Five Classics" in the school.
In Liu Xiangkun's "Shangshu" and "Hongfan", Jizi stated for King Wu the fulfillment of blessings and misfortunes of the five elements of yin and yang.
Liu Xiang collected the ancient records of Fu Rui's disasters from the Spring and Autumn Kingdom to the Qin and Han Dynasties, deduced what happened, and added explanations of misfortunes and blessings, and wrote out the fulfillment of divination, arranged by category, each with its own entries, a total of eleven articles, titled "Hong Fan's Five Elements Biography", and reported it to the emperor.
The emperor knew in his heart that Liu Xiang was loyal and sincere, and he originally made this comment because of the Wang and Feng brothers, but in the end he could not take away the Wang family's power.
After a long time, Changling was built, but it could not be completed for many years, and it returned to Yanling. The system was luxurious.
Liu Shangshang admonished:
I heard the "Book of Changes" said: When you are safe, you don't forget the danger; when you survive, you don't forget the destruction. Therefore, your own peace and the country can be protected.
Therefore, a virtuous monarch observes the ending and the beginning extensively, understands the truth thoroughly, and makes a clear distinction between right and wrong.
The king must be familiar with the three traditions and understand that the destiny given by destiny is broad and not limited to one surname.
Confucius was talking about "Poems", and the officials who arrived in Yin were so good and agile that they held a ceremony in Zhoujing to drink wine and help the sacrifices. They sighed: How great is the destiny of heaven!
Good deeds must not be passed on to descendants, because wealth and honor are impermanent; if this is not the case, then why should the princes be vigilant and cautious, and why should the people be advised and encouraged?
Probably because he was sad that Wei Zi served the Zhou Dynasty, and deplored Yin's demise.
Even with the sage of Yao and Shun, it could not teach a son like Danzhu; even with the virtue of Yutang, it could not teach Jie and Zhou who were the last descendants.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
自古及今，未有不亡之国也。
昔高皇帝既灭秦，将都雒阳，感寤刘敬之言，自以德不及周，而贤于秦，遂徙都关中，依周之德，因秦之阻。
世之长短，以德为效，故常战粟，不敢讳亡。
孔子所谓 富贵无常 ，盖谓此也。
孝文皇帝居霸陵，北临厕，意凄怆悲怀，顾谓群臣曰： 嗟乎！
以北山石为椁，用纻絮斫陈漆其间，岂可动哉！
张释之进曰： 使其中有可欲，虽锢南山犹有隙；使其中无可欲，虽无石椁，又何慼焉？
夫死者无终极，而国家有废兴，故释之之言，为无穷计也。
孝文寤焉，遂薄葬，不起山坟。
《易》曰： 古之葬者，厚衣之以薪，臧之中野，不封不树。
后世圣人易之以棺椁。
棺椁之作，自黄帝始。
黄帝葬于桥山，尧葬济阴，丘垅皆小，葬具甚微。
舜葬苍梧，二妃不从。
禹葬会稽，不改其列。
殷汤无葬处。
文、武、周公葬于毕，秦穆公葬于雍橐泉宫祈年馆下，樗里子葬于武库，皆无丘陇之处。
此圣帝明王贤君智士远览独虑无穷之计也。
其贤臣孝子亦承命顺意而薄葬之，此诚奉安君父，忠孝之至也。
夫周公，武王弟也，葬兄甚微。
孔子葬母子防，称古墓而不坟，曰： 丘，东西南北之人也，不可不识也。
为四尺坟，遇雨而崩。
弟子修之，以告孔子，孔子流涕曰： 吾闻之，古者不修墓。
盖非之也。
延陵季子适齐而反，其子死，葬于赢、博之间，穿不及泉，敛以时服，封坟掩坎，其高可隐，而号曰： 骨肉归复于土，命也，魂气则无不之也。
夫赢、博去吴千有余里，季子不归葬。
孔子往观曰： 延陵季子于礼合矣。
translation: 
From ancient times to the present, there is no country that is immortal.
In the past, Emperor Gaozu destroyed Qin and established his capital in Luoyang. After understanding Liu Jing's words, he thought that his virtue was not as good as that of Huang, but more virtuous than that of children, so he moved his capital to Laosheng, relying on Gu's virtues and using the dangers of fortress.
The short and long ways of the world are judged by virtue, so they often tremble and dare not avoid death.
This is probably what King Cong meant when he said "wealth is impermanent".
Emperor Xiaowen stood on the Ba Mausoleum, facing the water to the north. He felt sad and miserable. He turned around and said to the ministers: Ah!
Use Beishan stone to make the coffin, cut off the wadding and put it between the utensils, and paint it well. How can you shake it?
Zhang Shizhi said: If there is something worth asking for in the wrapping, even if it is as strong as Nanshan, there will still be cracks to drill through; if there is nothing worth asking for in the wrapping, even if there is no stone coffin, what is the sadness?
Death has no end, but countries rise and fall, so if you explain it, you are planning for the infinite future.
Xiaowen realized that he was buried lightly and did not build a mountain tomb.
"Yi" says: In ancient times, burials were covered with firewood and hidden in the wilderness without making graves or planting trees.
Later generations of saints used coffins instead.
Making coffins began with the Yellow Emperor.
Huangdi was buried in Qiaoshan, and Yao was buried in Jiyin. The tombs were both small and the burial goods were meager.
Shun was buried in Cangwu, and his two concubines had no attendants.
Yu was buried in Kuaiji, and the original order of everything on the ground was not changed.
There is no burial place in Yin Tang.
Dukes Wen, Wu, and Zhou were buried in Bi, Duke Mu of Qin was buried under the Prayer Hall of Yongliquan Palace, and Chuilizi was buried in the arsenal. There are no tombs in either of them.
This is the plan that the Holy Emperor, the Ming King, the Wise Lord, the Wise Lord, and the wise men have thought deeply about and spread to the infinite.
Their virtuous ministers and filial sons also obeyed the orders and were buried sparingly. This was indeed the ultimate expression of loyalty and filial piety in serving their emperor and father.
Duke Zhou was the younger brother of King Wu, and it was very meager to bury his brother.
Confucius buried his mother in Fang, and praised the ancient people who built tombs instead of building tombs. He said: Qiu is a person who travels around in the east, west, north, and south, so he must not leave marks.
A four-foot grave was made, but it collapsed when it rained.
The disciple repaired it and told Confucius. Confucius cried and said: I heard that in ancient times, tombs were not repaired.
Probably to criticize them.
Yanling Jizi returned to Qi State. His son died. He was buried between Ying and Bo. There was no spring water in the ground. He used the clothes he wore at that time to bury him and made a grave to cover the pit. The height could be as high as the elbow. He cried: "The flesh and blood return to the earth. This is fate, and the soul is everywhere."
Ying and Bo were more than a thousand miles away from Wu, and Ji Zi refused to bury him and return home.
Confucius went to see it and said: "What Yanling Jizi did is very polite."


Chunk 12: 
original: 
故仲尼孝子，而延陵慈父，舜、禹忠臣，周公弟弟，其葬君亲骨肉，皆微薄矣；非苟为俭，诚便于体也。
宋桓司马为石椁，仲尼曰 不如速朽。
秦相吕不韦集知略之士而造《春秋》，亦言薄葬之义，皆明于事情者也。
逮至吴王阖闾，违礼厚葬，十有余年，越人发之。
及秦惠文、武、昭、孝文、严襄五王，皆大作丘陇，多其瘗臧，咸尽发掘暴露，甚足悲也。
秦始皇帝葬于骊山之阿，下锢三泉，上崇山坟，其高五十余丈，周回五里有余；石椁为游馆，人膏为灯烛，水银为江海，黄金为凫雁。
珍宝之臧，机械之变，棺椁之丽，宫馆之盛，不可胜原。
又多杀官人，生薶工匠，计以万数。
天下苦其役而反之，骊山之作未成，而周章百万之师至其下矣。
项籍燔其宫室营宇，往者咸见发掘。
其后牧儿亡羊，羊入其凿，牧者持火照求羊，失火烧其臧椁。
自古至今，葬未有盛如始皇者也，数年之间，外被项籍之灾，内离牧竖之祸，岂不哀哉！
是故德弥厚者葬弥薄，知愈深者葬愈微。
无德寡知，其葬愈厚，丘陇弥高，宫庙甚丽，发掘必速。
由是观之，明暗之效，葬之吉凶，昭然可见矣。
周德既衰而奢侈，宣王贤而中兴，更为俭官室，小寝庙。
诗人美之，《斯干》之诗是也，上章道宫室之如制，下章言子孙之众多也。
及鲁严公刻饰宗庙，多筑台囿，后嗣再绝，《春秋》刺焉。
周宣如彼而昌，鲁、秦如此而绝，是则奢俭之得失也。
陛下即位，躬亲节俭，始营初陵，其制约小，天下莫不称贤明。
及徙昌陵，增埤为高，积土为山，发民坟墓，积以万数，营起邑居，期日迫卒，功费大万百余。
死者恨于下，生者愁于上，怨气感动阴阳，因之以饥馑，物故流离以十万数，臣甚惽焉。
以死者为有知，发人之墓，其害多矣；若其无知，又安用大？
translation: 
Therefore, Zhongni was a filial son, Yanling was a loving father, Shun Yu was a loyal minister, and Zhou Gong knew how to be a younger brother. They buried the monarch and their relatives with very little money; they were not frugal, but in line with etiquette.
Sima Huan of the Song Dynasty made a stone coffin, but Zhongni said that it would be better to let it decay as soon as possible.
Lu Buwei, the prime minister of Qin, gathered his wise men to write the Spring and Autumn Annals, which also talked about the principle of thin burial. They were all sensible people.
When he arrived at the King of Wu's house, he was buried without ceremony. More than ten years later, the Yue people dug up his tomb.
By the time of the Qin Dynasty, the five kings Huiwen, Wu, Zhao and Yanxiang had built large tombs and buried many of them, but they were all dug up and their bodies were exposed. It was very sad.
The First Emperor of Qin was buried in the mountain curve of Lishan Mountain. Three springs were cast below, and a mountain tomb was built above. It was more than fifty feet high and more than five miles around. The stone coffin was made into a palace villa, human anointing was made into lamps and candles, mercury was made into rivers and seas, and gold was made into geese.
The treasures buried, the mechanical ingenuity, the magnificence of the coffins, the grandeur of the palaces are endless.
He also killed many palace people and buried tens of thousands of craftsmen alive.
The world was built with the pain of labor. The construction of Lishan Mountain was not completed, and Zhou Zhang's millions of troops had already arrived below.
Xiang Ji burned his palace buildings, and everyone who went there dug out.
Later, the shepherd boy lost his sheep, and the sheep went into the storage room. The shepherd boy held up a fire to look for the sheep, but the coffin caught fire and burned down.
From ancient times to the present, there has been no grander funeral than that of the First Emperor. Within a few years, he suffered the disaster of Xiang Ji externally and the disaster of Mu Shu internally. Isn’t it very sad!
Therefore, the more virtuous people are buried, the more modest their burials are, and the more intelligent people are buried, the simpler their burials are.
Those without moral wisdom will be buried thickly, their tombs will be high, their palaces and temples will be more ornate, and they will be dug up more quickly.
From this point of view, the test of light and darkness, and the good and bad luck of funerals, are clearly visible.
Zhou De had declined and was extravagant, but King Xuan was wise and rejuvenated. He instead saved palace expenses and reduced the size of his temple.
The poet praised him, such as the poem "Si Qian". The first chapter says that the palace follows the system, and the next chapter says that there are many descendants.
When he came to support Yan Gong, he decorated the ancestral temple and built many platforms. His descendants were extinct twice. The Spring and Autumn Annals ridiculed him.
Zhou Xuan prospered like this, while Lu and Qin became extinct like this. This is the gain and loss of luxury and frugality.
陛下即位，亲身从事节俭，开始建第一个陵，形制约小，天下没人不称赞贤明。
When it came to moving to Changling, the low places were filled up, the earth was piled up into mountains, and the tombs of the people were opened, totaling tens of thousands, and cities were built. The time was tight and the cost was hundreds of millions and hundreds of millions.
The dead are holding grudges underground, while the living are grieving on the ground. The resentment has become yin and yang, coupled with famine, there are hundreds of thousands of people dead and in exile. I am very sad.
If the deceased has a spirit, opening someone else's tomb will do a lot of harm; if he has no spirit, then there is no need to enlarge it?


Chunk 13: 
original: 
谋之贤知则不说，以示众庶则苦之；若苟以说愚夫淫侈之人，又何为哉！
陛下仁慈笃美甚厚，聪明疏达盖世，宜弘汉家之德，崇刘氏之美，光昭五帝、三王，而顾与暴秦乱君竞为奢侈，比方丘垅，说愚夫之目，隆一时之观，违贤知之心，亡万世之安，臣窃为陛下羞之。
唯陛下上览明圣黄帝、尧、舜、禹、汤、文、武、周公、仲尼之制，下观贤知穆公、延陵、樗里、张释之之意。
孝文皇帝去坟薄葬，以俭安神，可以为则；秦昭、始皇增山厚臧，以侈生害，足以为戒。
初陵之橅，宜从公卿大臣之议，以息众庶。
书奏，上甚感向言，而不能从其计。
向睹俗弥奢淫，而赵、卫之属起微贱，逾礼制。
向以为王教由内及外，自近者始。
故采取《诗》、《书》所载贤妃贞妇，兴国显家可法则，及孽嬖乱亡者，序次为《列女传》，凡八篇，以戒天子。
及采传记行事，著《新序》、《说苑》凡五十篇奏之。
数上疏言得失，陈法戒。
书数十上，以助观览，补遗阙。
上虽不能尽用，然内嘉其言，常嗟叹之。
时上无继嗣，政由王氏出，灾异浸甚。
向雅奇陈汤智谋，与相亲友，独谓汤曰： 灾异如此，而外家日盛，其渐必危刘氏。
吾幸得同姓末属，累世蒙汉厚恩，身为宗室遗老，历事三主。
上以我先帝旧臣，每进见常加优礼，吾而不言，孰当言者？
向遂上封事极谏曰：
臣闻人君莫不欲安，然而常危；莫不欲存，然而常亡：失御臣之术也。
夫大臣操权柄，持国政，未有不为害者也。
translation: 
Discussing with the wise people makes everyone unhappy, and makes the people complain when they see it; if it is just to please the stupid and indulgent people, why do it?
Your Majesty is very kind and sincere, and extremely intelligent and knowledgeable. He should carry forward the virtues of the Han family, carry forward the good deeds of the Liu family, and glorify the Five Emperors and Three Kings. However, he competes with the monarchs of the Qin Dynasty for luxury, compares with graves, and pleases the eyes of fools. He only pursues temporary beauty, goes against the wishes of wise men, and loses peace for all eternity. I am privately ashamed of your Majesty.
Please observe the system of the sage Huang Di, Yao, Shun, Yu, Tang, Wen, Wu, Zhou Gong, and Zhongni from above, and understand the thoughts of Mu Gong, Yanling, Chuili, and Zhang Shizhi from the bottom.
Emperor Xiaowen cut the tombs thin and buried them lightly, using frugality to calm the gods, which can be followed. Qin Zhao and the First Emperor added mountains and buried them in large sums, which caused worries due to extravagance, which is enough to serve as a warning.
The scale of the original mausoleum should be based on the opinions of the ministers to stabilize the people.
After the book was written, the emperor was very moved by Liu Xiang's words, but he could not act according to his opinions.
Liu Xiang saw that the customs were more extravagant, while the likes of Zhao and Wei were of humble origin and transcended etiquette.
Liu Xiang believed that Wang's teachings started from the outside and from the near.
So he excerpted the virtuous concubines and chaste wives recorded in the "Poems" and "Books", who made the country and family prosperous and could be imitated, as well as those whose pampering led to chaos and destruction, and compiled them into "Biography of Women", a total of eight chapters, to warn the emperor.
He also extracted biographical stories and wrote "New Preface" and "Shuo Yuan", a total of fifty chapters.
He wrote many times to comment on his gains and losses, and to state the Dharma and precepts.
I wrote dozens of times to help with reading and make up for the shortcomings.
Although the emperor could not adopt them all, he often sighed in admiration for his words in his heart.
At that time, the emperor had no heir, and political affairs were controlled by the Wang family. The disaster gradually became serious.
Liu Xiang admired Chen Tang's resourcefulness and had a close relationship with him. He said to him alone: ​​"The disaster has reached this level, and the relatives are getting stronger. If it continues to develop, it will definitely endanger the Liu family."
I have the same surname as the last branch, and I have received indifference in many lifetimes. As an elder of the clan, I have served the emperors of three dynasties.
The emperor thinks that I am an old minister of the late emperor, and treats me with courtesy every time he comes to see me. If I don't say anything, who should?
Liu Xiang then wrote a sealed memorial and strongly remonstrated:
I heard that there are no monarchs who do not want peace, but they are often in danger; there are no monarchs who do not want the country to last forever, but they are often destroyed. This is because they have lost the way to manage their ministers.
When a minister holds power and presides over the affairs of the country, he will always be a disaster.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
昔晋有六卿，齐有田、崔，卫有孙、甯，鲁有季、孟，常掌国事，世执朝柄。终后田氏取齐；六卿分晋；崔杼弑其君光；孙林父、甯殖出其君衎，弑其君剽；季氏八佾舞于庭，三家者以《雍》彻，并专国政，卒逐昭公。
周大夫尹氏管朝事，浊乱王室，子朝、子猛更立，连年乃定。
故经曰 王室乱 ，又曰 君氏杀王子克 ，甚之也。
《春秋》举成败，录祸福，如此类甚众，皆阴盛而阳微，下失臣道之所致也。
故《书》曰： 臣之有作威作福，害于而家，凶于而国。
孔子曰 禄去公室，政逮大夫 ，危亡之兆。
秦昭王舅穰侯及泾阳、叶阳君专国擅势，上假太后之威，三人者权重于昭王，家富于秦国，国甚危殆，赖寤范睢之言，而秦复存。
二世委任赵高，专权自恣，壅蔽大臣，终有阎乐望夷之祸，秦遂以亡。
近事不远，即汉所代也。
汉兴，诸吕无道，擅相尊王。
吕产、吕禄席太后之宠，据将相之位，兼南北军之众，拥梁、赵王之尊，骄盈无厌，欲危刘氏。
赖忠正大臣绛侯、朱虚侯等竭诚尽节以诛灭之，然后刘氏复安。
今王氏一姓乘朱轮华毂者二十三人，青紫貂蝉充盈幄内，鱼鳞左右。
大将军秉事用权，五侯骄奢僣盛，并作威福，击断自恣，行污而寄治，身私而托公，依东宫之尊，假甥舅之亲，以为威重。
尚书、九卿、州牧、郡守皆出其门，管执枢机，朋党比周。
称誉者登进，忤恨者诛伤；游谈者助之说，执政者为之言。
排摈宗室，孤弱公族，其有智能者，尤非毁而不进。
远绝宗室之任，不令得给事朝省，恐其与已分权；数称燕王、盖主以疑上心，避讳吕、霍而弗肯称。
内有管、蔡之萌，外假周公之论，兄弟据重，宗族磐互。
历上古至秦、汉，外戚僣贵未有如王氏者也。
虽周皇甫、秦穰侯、汉武安、吕、霍、上官之属，皆不及也。
translation: 
In the past, Jin had six ministers, Qi had Tian and Cui, Wei had Sun and Ning, and Lu had Ji and Meng. They had always been in charge of state affairs and held power from generation to generation. Later, Tian finally replaced Qi; the six ministers divided Jin; Cui Zhu killed the country Jun Guang; Sun Lin's father and Ning Shi expelled their monarch Yan and killed the monarch; Ji's family performed the dance of Eight Yi in the court, and the three families had a feast with "Yong", monopolizing state affairs together, and finally expelled Zhao Gong.
The Yin family, the official of Zhou Dynasty, took charge of the government affairs, which caused chaos in the royal family. Zichao and Zimeng were established one after another, and it took several years to stabilize.
Therefore, it is said that the royal family is in chaos, and it is also said that the Yin family killed the prince to subdue it. It is really powerful.
"Spring and Autumn" lists successes and failures and records misfortunes and blessings. Many of these are caused by the rise and fall of yin and the decline of yang, and the subordinates have lost their way of serving as ministers.
Therefore, "The Book" says: If ministers act arrogantly, it will be harmful to your family and your country.
Confucius said that when the salary is removed from the official office and the political power is controlled by the officials, it is a sign of danger.
The uncles of King Zhao of Qin, Marquis Zhou, Jingyang and Ye Yang, monopolized the state affairs. With the power of the Queen Mother, the three people were more powerful than King Zhao, and their families were richer than the state of Qin. The country was in danger, but Qin could still survive after understanding Fan Sui's words.
The second generation appointed Zhao Gao, he indulged himself in power and blocked the ministers. Finally, Yan Le looked at the barbarians and the Qin Dynasty was destroyed.
This is a recent thing, and it was replaced not long ago by indifference.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Zhu Lu did not follow the right path and respected each other as king without permission.
Lü Chan and Lü Lu took advantage of the Empress Dowager's favor to occupy the positions of generals, control the soldiers of the Northern and Southern armies, and had the honorary position of kings of Liang and Tang. They were arrogant and unsatisfied and wanted to endanger the Liu family.
Relying on the loyal ministers Jianghou, Zhuxuhou and others, they used all their sincerity to eliminate them, and then the Liu family found peace again.
Now there were twenty-three people of the Wang family riding in the Zhulunmei chariot. The tent was filled with green mink and purple cicadas, sitting in rows on the left and right of the emperor.
The general was in charge of affairs, and the five princes were arrogant and extravagant. They acted arbitrarily and acted arbitrarily. They acted selfishly but relied on the way of public administration. They relied on the dignity of Shu Palace and the family affection of their nephews to achieve a prestigious position.
Shangshu Jiuqing, prefectures, animal husbandry and county guards all came from their sects. They were in charge of secrets and formed cliques for personal gain.
Those who praise them will be promoted, and those who disobey will be killed; those who lobby will explain for them, and those in power will speak for them.
Exclude the clan, isolate and weaken the public clan, and especially those who are intelligent must be slandered and not used.
He prevented the clan members from assuming their responsibilities and did not allow them to serve the court, for fear that they would compete with him for power. He mentioned King Qu and King Gai many times to make the emperor confused, and avoided mentioning Lu and Huo.
There are Guan and Cai's plans in the heart, but outside they are relying on the words of Duke Zhou, brothers are in power, and clans are colluding.
From ancient times to the Qin and Han Dynasties, there were no relatives who were as noble as the Wang family.
Even Zhou Huangfu, Qin Zhouhou, Han Wu'an, Lu, Huo, Shangguan and others can't compare with them.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
物盛必有非常之变先见，为其人微象。
孝昭帝时，冠石立于泰山，仆柳起于上林。
而孝宣帝即位，今王氏先祖坟墓在济南者，其梓柱生枝叶，扶疏上出屋，根垂地中，虽立石起柳，无以过此之明也。
事势不两大，王氏与刘氏亦且不并立，如下有泰山之安，则上有累卵之危。
陛下为人子孙，守持宗庙，而令国祚移于外亲，降为皂隶，纵不为身，奈宗庙何！
妇人内夫家，外父母家，此亦非皇太后之福也。
孝宣皇帝不与舅平昌、乐昌侯权，所以安全之也。
夫时者起福于无形，销患于未然。宜发明诏，吐德音，援近宗室，亲而纳信，黜远外戚，毋授以政，皆罢令就第，以则效先帝之所行，厚安外戚，全其宗族，诚东宫之意，外家之福也。
王氏永存，保其爵禄，刘氏长安，不失社稷，所以褒睦外内之姓，子子孙孙无疆之计也。
如不行此策，田氏复见于今，六卿必起于汉，为后嗣忧，昭昭甚明，不可不深图，不可不蚤虑。
《易》曰： 君不密，则失臣；臣不密，则失身；几事不密，则害成。
唯陛下深留圣思，审固几密，览往事之戒，以折中取信，居万安之实，用保宗庙，久承皇太后，天下幸甚。
书奏，天子召见向，叹息悲伤其意，谓曰： 君且休矣，吾将思之。
以向为中垒校尉。
向为人简易无威仪，廉靖乐道，不交接世俗，专积思于经术，昼诵书传，夜观星宿，或不寐达旦。
元延中，星孛东井，蜀郡岷山崩雍江。
向恶此异，语在《五行志》。
怀不能已，复上奏，其辞曰：臣闻帝舜戒伯禹，毋若丹朱敖；周公戒成王，毋若殷王纣。
《诗》曰： 殷监不远，在夏后之世 ，亦言汤以桀为戒也。
圣帝明王常以败乱自戒，不讳废兴，故臣敢极陈其愚，唯陛下留神察焉。
translation: 
When things flourish, extraordinary changes must appear first, as subtle manifestations of their people.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaozhao, the stone from Guanshan stood on Tongshan, and the fallen willow tree stood up again in Shanglin.
After Chu Xuantong came to the throne, at the tomb of the Wang family's ancestors in Jinan, the catalpa pillars sprouted branches and leaves, stretching upwards beyond the house. The roots are inserted into the ground, and even if the stone stands and the willow stands erected, it cannot be more obvious than this.
The power of things cannot be both great at the same time, and the Wang family and Shengqu are also incompatible. If the one below is as stable as Mount Tai, then the one above is in danger of laying eggs.
As a descendant of your ancestors, your majesty protects the ancestral temple, but you let the throne pass to the hands of a foreign relative and become a slave. Even if it is not for yourself, what will the ancestral temple do!
For a woman to regard her husband's family as her home and her parents' home as her home, this is not the happiness of the empress dowager.
Emperor Xiaoxuan did not give his uncles Pingchang and Lechang the power, just to keep them safe.
A wise person can bring about blessings invisibly and eliminate disasters before they begin. He should issue clear edicts, promote virtue, introduce clan members, be close and trustworthy, alienate relatives, do not give them authority, remove them all and let them return home, imitate the behavior of the previous king, appease relatives generously, and preserve their clan. This is indeed the wish of the East Palace and the blessing of the maternal family.
The Wang family will exist forever, keep their title and fortune, and the Liu family will be stable for a long time without losing the country. This is a great plan to make the inner and outer surnames harmonious and have endless descendants.
If we don't act in this way, the Tian family will meet again today, and the Liuqing will definitely rise in the Han Dynasty and become a worry for future generations. It is so obvious that we have to think deeply and think about it early.
"Yi" said: If the king is not careful, he will lose his ministers; if the ministers are not careful, they will lose their lives; if the secrets are not careful, they will not succeed.
Your Majesty, please think deeply, carefully review military and state affairs, observe the lessons of the past, gain trust through compromise, maintain peace for eternity, maintain the ancestral temple, and serve the Empress Dowager for a long time. The world is very honored.
After the book was written, the emperor summoned Liu Xiang, sighed and said to him: "You can rest for now, I will consider this matter."
Liu Xiang was appointed as the captain of the middle base.
Liu Xiang was a simple man without dignity, honest and quiet, and liked the way of sages. He did not interact with the secular world and devoted himself to the study of classics. He recited books and biographies during the day and observed the stars at night. Sometimes he would not sleep until dawn.
During the Yuan Dynasty, a comet swept over Shujing, and Minshan Mountain in Shu County collapsed and blocked the Yangtze River.
Liu Xiang believed that this kind of vision was not good, and his discussion on it was recorded in "Five Elements Chronicles".
His thoughts were endless, and he wrote again: I heard that Emperor Shun warned Boyu not to be as arrogant as Danzhu; Zhou Gong warned Cheng Wang not to be like King Zhou of Yin.
"Poetry" said that Yin's reference was not far away. In the era of Queen Xia, it also said that Tang took Jie as a warning.
The Holy Emperor and King Ming often used defeats and chaos to warn themselves, and did not shy away from ruining prosperity. Therefore, I dare to state my foolish opinions to the best of my ability. Your Majesty, please pay attention and observe.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
谨案春秋二百四十二年，日蚀三十六，襄公尤数，率三岁五月有奇而壹食。
汉兴讫竟宁，孝景帝尤数，率三岁一月而一食。
臣向前数言日当食，今连三年比食。
自建始以来，二十岁间而八食，率二岁六月而一发，古今罕有。
异有小大希稠，占有舒疾缓急，而圣人所以断疑也。
《易》曰： 观乎天文，以察时变。
昔孔子对鲁哀公，并言夏桀、殷纣暴虐天下，故历失则摄提失方，孟陬无纪，此皆易姓之变也。
秦始皇之末至二世时，日月薄食，山陵沦亡，辰星出于四孟，太白经天而行，无云而雷，枉矢夜光，荧惑袭月，孽火烧宫，野禽戏廷，都门内崩，长人见临洮，石陨于东郡，星孛大角，大角以亡。
观孔子之言，考暴秦之异，天命信可畏也。
及项籍之败，亦孛大角。
汉之入秦，五星聚于东井，得天下之象也。
孝惠时，有雨血，日食于冲，灭光星见之异。
孝昭时，有泰山卧石自立，上林僵柳复起，大星如月西行，众星随之，此为特异。
孝宣兴起之表，天狗夹汉而西，久阴不雨者二十余日，昌邑不终之异也。
皆著于《汉纪》。
观秦、汉之易世，览惠、昭之无后，察昌邑之不终，视孝宣之绍起，天之去就，岂不昭昭然哉！
高宗、成王亦有雊雉拔木之变，能思其故，故高宗有百年之福，成王有复风之报。
神明之应，应若景响，世所同闻也。
臣幸得托末属，诚见陛下宽明之德，冀销大异，而兴高宗、成王之声，以崇刘氏，故豤々数奸死亡之诛。
今日食尤屡，星孛东井，摄提炎及紫官，有识长老莫不震动，此变之大者也。
其事难一二记，故《易》曰 书不尽言，言不尽意 ，是以设卦指爻，而复说义。
《书》曰 亻平来以图 ，天文难以相晓，臣虽图上，犹须口说，然后可知，愿赐清燕之闲，指图陈状。
translation: 
In the 242nd year of the Spring and Autumn Period, there were thirty-six solar eclipses, especially during the reign of Duke Xiang. There was one eclipse in about three years and five months.
From the rise of the Han Dynasty to Jingning, it was particularly frequent during the reign of Emperor Xiaojing, about once every three years and a month.
I have told you many times that there should be a solar eclipse, and now there have been frequent solar eclipses for three consecutive years.
Since the founding of the People's Republic of China, there have been eight eclipses in twenty years, about once every two years and six months, which is rare in ancient and modern times.
Visions vary in size, thickness, and divination, and divination varies in severity. The sage uses this to decide questions.
"Yi" said: Observe astronomy to examine the changes of the times.
In the past, Confucius answered Duke Ai of Lu and mentioned that Xia Jie and Yin Zhou were tyrannical in the world. Therefore, if there were errors in the calendar, the position would be lost, and Meng Zou could not calculate it. These were all changes caused by the change of surnames.
During the last years of Qin Shihuang's second year, the sun and moon eclipse each other, mountains and tombs collapse, stars appear in Meng Yue in the four seasons, Taibai stars move across the sky, and there are thunders without clouds, meteors shine in the night, Yinghuo attacks the moon, fires burn the palace, wild crows play in the court, the capital gate collapses inwards, giants appear in Lintao, meteorites fall in Cambodia, comets sweep over Dajiao, and Dajiao disappears.
Looking at the words of Confucius and examining the vision of the violent Qin Dynasty, the destiny of heaven is indeed terrifying.
When Xiang Ji failed, the comet also swept across Dajiao.
When Han invaded Qin, five stars gathered in Shujing, which was a sign of conquering the world.
During the period of Xiaohui, there was a rain of blood, the sun and the moon were in conflict, the light disappeared, and stars appeared.
During the reign of Xiaozhao, there was a lying stone on Mount Tai standing on its own, the dead willows in the forest grew again, and a big star like the moon moved westward, with many stars following it. This was a huge disaster.
The sign of Xiaoxuan's rise was that the Tengu traveled westward with the Milky Way between them. It was often cloudy without rain for more than 20 days, which was a disaster that would not end well in Changyi.
All are recorded in "Han Ji".
Observing the changes of Qin and Han, Hui and Zhao had no descendants, and Changyi could not die well. Looking at Xiaoxuan's succession, isn't it very obvious that God made a choice?
Emperor Gaozong and King Cheng also had the disaster phenomenon of pheasants uprooting trees, and they could reflect on the cause. Therefore, Emperor Gaozong could have a hundred years of blessings, and King Cheng had the retribution of a wind blowing in the opposite direction.
The retribution of the gods, like shadows and echoes, is universally known.
I have the good fortune to be in the royal branch, and I have truly seen that your majesty has the virtue of generosity and wisdom. I hope to eliminate the great disaster, promote the beautiful voice of Zhisai and Sheng Wang, and come to respect the seal area, so I sincerely committed several capital crimes.
Nowadays, solar eclipses are particularly frequent, comets sweep through the beam well, and the light of the solar eclipse rises to the purple palace. All knowledgeable elders are shocked. This is a big disaster.
It is difficult to write down this matter one by one, so the "Book of Changes" says that "the words cannot be fully expressed in the book, and the meaning cannot be fully expressed in the words", so the hexagrams are set up to point out the line images, and then the meaning is stated.
"Book" says that it is difficult to understand astronomy when people use pictures to explain it. Although I have presented pictures, I still need to speak orally before I can understand. I hope that I can point to the pictures and explain them in my free time.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
上辄入之，然终不能用也。
向每召见，数言： 公族者国之枝叶，枝叶落则本根无所庇荫；方今同姓疏远，母党专政，禄去公室，权在外家，非所以强汉宗、卑私门、保守社稷、安固后嗣也。
向自见得信于上，故常显讼宗室，讥刺王氏及在位大臣，其言多痛切，发于至诚。
上数欲用向为九卿，辄不为王氏居位者及丞相御史所持，故终不迁。居列大夫官前后三十余年，年七十二卒。
卒后十三岁而王氏代汉。
向三子皆好学：长子伋，以《易》教授，官至郡守；中子赐，九卿丞，蚤卒；少子歆，最知名。
歆字子骏，少以通《诗》、《书》能属文召见成帝，待诏宦者署，为黄门郎。
河平中，受诏与父向领校秘书，讲六艺传记，诸子、诗赋、数术、方技，无所不究。
向死后，歆复为中垒校尉。
哀帝初即位，大司马王莽举歆宗室有材行，为侍中太中大夫，迁骑都尉、奉车光禄大夫，贵幸。
复领《五经》，卒父前业。
歆乃集六艺群书，种别为《七略》。
语在《艺文志》。
歆及向始皆治《易》，宣帝时，诏向受《穀梁春秋》，十余年，大明习。
及歆校秘书，见古文《春秋左氏传》，歆大好之。
时丞相史尹咸以能治《左氏》，与歆共校经传。
歆略从咸及丞相翟方进受，质问大义。
初《左氏传》多古字古言，学者传训故而已，及歆治《左氏》，引传文以解经，转相发明，由是章句义理备焉。
歆亦湛靖有谋，父子俱好古，博见强志，过绝于人。
歆以为左丘明好恶与圣人同，亲见夫子，而公羊、穀梁在七十子后，传闻之与亲见之，其详略不同。
歆数以难向，向不能非间也，然犹自持其《穀梁》义。
及歆亲近，欲建立《左氏春秋》及《毛诗》、《逸礼》、《古文尚书》皆列于学官。
哀帝令歆与《五经》博士讲论其义，诸博士或不肯置对，歆因移书太常博士，责让之曰：
昔唐、虞既衰，而三代迭兴，圣帝明王，累起相袭，其道甚著。
周室既微而礼乐不正，道之难全也如此。
是故孔子忧道之不行，历国应聘。
translation: 
The emperor summoned him, but was ultimately unable to appoint him.
Every time Liu Xiang was summoned, he said that the public family is the branches and leaves of the country. When the branches and leaves fall off the trunk and roots, there will be no protection; now the same surname is alienated, the mother party is in dictatorship, Fulu has left the official office, and power is in the hands of outsiders. This is not the way to make the Han clan strong and the private family weak, to preserve the country and stabilize future generations.
Because Liu Xiang could be trusted by the emperor, he often praised the clan and satirized the Wang family and the ministers in office. His language was very painful and out of sincerity.
The emperor wanted to appoint Liu Xiang as the ninth minister many times, but he was not supported by the reigning Wang family and the prime minister's censor, so he was not promoted. He served as a lieutenant for more than thirty years and died at the age of seventy-two.
Thirteen years after his death, Wang replaced Mo.
Liu Xiang's three sons were all eager to learn: the eldest son Liu Ji taught "Yi" and became an official and became a county governor; the second son Liu Ci served as Jiuqing Cheng and died young; the youngest son Liu Xin is the most famous.
Liu Xin, whose courtesy name was Zijun, was summoned as a child because he was proficient in "Poems" and "Books" and could write articles. When he met Emperor Cheng, he worked in the eunuch's office and served as a Huang Menlang.
During the Heping period, he was ordered to take charge of the school's secretaryship with his father Liu Xiang, and studied the biographies of the six arts, including Zhuzi, poetry, mathematics, and technology.
After Liu Xiang's death, Liu Xin became the captain of the middle base again.
When Emperor Ai just came to the throne, the Grand Sima Wang Mang recommended Liu Xin as a talented and virtuous clan member. He was promoted to the Taizhong doctor in the poem, promoted to the captain of the cavalry, and the Guanglu doctor of the chariot. He had a distinguished status and was favored.
He was also responsible for the affairs of the "Five Classics" and completed his father's work.
Liu Xin collected the six arts books and classified them into "Seven Strategies".
"Yiwenzhi" contains it.
Both Liu Xin and Liu Xiang began to study "Yi". During the reign of Emperor Xuan, Liu Xiang was asked to study "Gu Liang Chun Qiu" in Shao. After more than ten years, he became proficient in it.
When he was appointed secretary at Liu Xin School, he saw the ancient text "The Biography of the Zuo Family in the Spring and Autumn Period" and liked it very much.
At that time, Prime Minister Shi Yinxian was able to study "Zuo Shi" and revised the scriptures and biographies together with Liu Xin.
Liu Xin roughly studied with Yin Xian and Prime Minister Zhai Fangjin and inquired about righteousness.
At first, "Zuo Shi Zhuan" was mostly composed of ancient characters and ancient sayings, which scholars passed down and interpreted for exegesis. When Liu Xin studied "Zuo Shi", he quoted the biographies to explain the scriptures and invented each other. From then on, it also had the meaning of chapters and sentences.
Liu Xin was also calm and strategic. Both his father and his son were fond of ancient times. He was knowledgeable and had a strong memory, surpassing others.
Liu Xin believed that Zuo Qiuming's likes and dislikes were the same as those of a saint, who had seen the Master with his own eyes, while Gongyang and Gu Liang, who were seventy years old, heard rumors and saw with their own eyes, the details were slightly different.
Liu Xin attacked Liu Xiang many times, but Liu Xiang could not blame him, but he still adhered to the meaning of "Gu Liang".
When Liu Xin was approached by the emperor, he wanted to make "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu", "Mao Shi", "Yi Li" and "Guwen Shangshu" a scholar.
Emperor Ai asked Liu Xin to discuss his purpose with the doctors of the Five Classics. Some of the doctors refused to debate with Liu Xin. Liu Xin then wrote to Dr. Taichang, reproaching him and saying:
In the past, after the decline of Tang Dynasty and the fall of Yu, three generations of sage emperors and Ming kings succeeded each other and prospered one after another.
The Zhou Dynasty's family declined, rituals and music were not upright, and it was so difficult to preserve the great road.
Therefore, Confucius was worried that the road would not be accessible, so he traveled to various countries to apply for jobs.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
自卫反鲁，然后东正，《雅》、《颂》乃得其所；修《易》，序《书》，制作《春秋》，以纪帝王之道。
及夫子没而微言绝，七十子终而大义乖。重遭战国，弃笾豆之礼，理军旅之陈，孔氏之道抑，而孙、吴之术兴。
陵夷至于暴秦，燔经书，杀儒士，设挟书之法，行是古之罪，道术由是遂灭。
汉兴，去圣帝明王遐远，仲尼之道又绝，法度无所因袭。
时独有一叔孙通略定礼仪，天下唯有《易》卜，未有它书。
至孝惠之世，乃除挟书之律，然公卿大臣绛、灌之属咸介胄武夫，莫以为意。
至孝文皇帝，始使掌故朝错从伏生受《尚书》。
《尚书》初出于屋壁，朽折散绝，今其书见在，明师传读而已。
《诗》始萌牙。
天下众书往往颇出，皆诸子传说，犹广立于学官，为置博士。
在汉朝之儒，唯贾生而已。
至孝武皇帝，然后邹、鲁、梁、赵颇有《诗》、《礼》、《春秋》先师，皆起于建元之间。
当此之时，一人不能独尽其经，或为《雅》或为《颂》，相合而成。
《泰誓》后得，博士集而读之。
故诏书称曰； 礼坏乐崩，书缺简脱，联甚闵焉。
时汉兴已七八十年，离于全经，固已远矣。
及鲁恭王坏孔子宅，欲以为官，而得古文于坏壁之中，《逸礼》有三十九篇，《书》十六篇。
天汉之后，孔安国献之，遭巫蛊仓卒之难，未及施行。
及《春秋》左氏丘明所修，皆古文旧书，多者二十余通，臧于秘府，伏而未发。
孝成皇帝闵学残文缺，稍离其真，乃陈发秘臧，校理旧文，得此三事，以考学官所传，经或脱简，传或间编。
传问民间，则有鲁国桓公、赵国贯公、胶东庸生之遗学与此同，抑而未施。
此乃有识者之所惜闵，士君子之所嗟痛也。往者缀学之士不思废绝之阙，苟因陋就寡，分文析字，烦言碎辞，学者罢老且不能究其一艺。
translation: 
After returning from Wei to Lu, music was corrected, and "Ode to Ya" was given its proper place; "Yi" was published, "Book" was prefaced, and "Spring and Autumn" was written to record the way of the emperor.
When the master died and the subtle words became extinct, the seventy sons died and the righteousness was perverse, and they encountered the disputes in the Warring States period, they abandoned the etiquette of Pengdou and started to travel in military formations. The Kong family's Taoism declined, and Sun Wu's magic flourished.
It gradually declined until the violent Qin Dynasty, when scriptures were burned, Confucian scholars were killed, laws were enacted to ban books, praising ancient people for being punished, and Taoist magic became extinct from then on.
The rise of the Han Dynasty was far away from the Holy Emperor Mingwang, and the Zhongni Dao was extinct, so the laws could not be followed.
At that time, there was only one Shusun Tong who roughly formulated the etiquette. There was only the book of divination "Yi" and no other book in the world.
By the time of Xiaohui, the law on banning books was abolished, but ministers Jiang, Guan and others were all warriors wearing armor and did not take it seriously.
When Emperor Xiaowen arrived, he began to let Chao Cuo, an acquaintance, learn "Shang Shu" from Fu Sheng.
"Shang Shu" was just taken out from the wall of the house and was broken and scattered. The book is still there now. At that time, the master just passed on the interpretation and recited it.
"Poetry" began to sprout.
There are many books in the world, all of which are the interpretations of various scholars. They are also widely established as academic officials and have doctorates for them.
The only Confucian scholar in the Han Dynasty was Jia Yi.
By the time of Emperor Xiaowu, there were senior teachers from Zou, Lu, Liang, and Changchang who explained "Poems", "Li", and "Spring and Autumn", all of whom arose during the Jianyuan period.
At this time, one person cannot exhaust the scriptures alone. Some are proficient in "Ya" and some are proficient in "Song". Only by cooperation can everyone complete the lecture.
"The Oath of Thailand" came out later, and the doctor collected and recited it.
So the edict said: I am very worried about the collapse of rites and the destruction of music and the missing of slips.
At that time, it had been seventy or eighty years since the rise of the Han Dynasty, and it was already far away from all the classics.
When King Lu Gong excavated the old residence of Confucius and wanted to build a palace, he found ancient texts in the broken walls. There are thirty-nine chapters in "Yi Li" and sixteen chapters in "Shu".
After the Tianhan Dynasty, Kong Anguo offered them, but encountered the witchcraft's haste and had no time to execute them.
As for the "Spring and Autumn" edited by Zuo Shiqiu Ming, they are all ancient texts and old books, with as many as more than 20 chapters. They are hidden in a secret house and have not been published.
Emperor Xiaocheng felt sorry for the incomplete academic work, which was very different from the original book, so he published the old collection and revised the old text. Using these three kinds of books, he revised the scriptures passed down by the academic officials. Some of the scriptures were simplified and some were misedited.
After sending orders to the people, it was found that the teachings of Dan Gong of Lu Li, Guan Gong of Zheng Hui, and Yongsheng of Jiaodong were the same, but they were suppressed and not implemented.
This is something that makes the wise pity and the gentlemen sad. In the past, scholars did not consider the incompleteness of books, and made do with what they had. Analyzing words and speaking were cumbersome, and scholars could not master a skill until they were old.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
信口说而背传记，是末师而非往古，至于国家将有大事，若立辟雍、封禅、巡狩之仪，则幽冥而莫知其原。
犹欲保残守缺，挟恐见破之私意，而无从善服义之公心，或怀妒嫉，不考情实，雷同相从，随声是非，抑此三学，以《尚书》为备，谓左氏为不传《春秋》，岂不哀哉！
今圣上德通神明，继统扬业，亦闵文学错乱，学士若兹，虽昭其情，犹依违谦让，乐与士君子同之。
故下明诏，试《左氏》可立不，遣近臣奉指衔命，将以辅弱扶微，与二三君子比意同力，冀得废遗。
今则不然，深闭固距，而不肯试，猥以不诵绝之，欲以杜塞余道，绝灭微学。
夫可与乐成，难与虑始，此乃众庶之所为耳，非所望士君子也。
且此数家之事，皆先帝所亲论，今上所考视，其古文旧书，皆有征验，外内相应，岂苟而已哉！
夫礼失求之于野，古文不犹愈于野乎？
往者博士《书》有欧阳，《春秋》公羊，《易》则施、孟，然孝宣皇帝犹复广立《穀梁春秋》，《梁丘易》，《大小夏侯尚书》，义虽相反，犹并置之。
何则？
与其过而废之也，宁过而立之。
传曰： 文武之道未坠于地，在人；贤者志其大者，不贤者志其小者。
今此数家之言所以兼包大小之义，岂可偏绝哉！
若必专已守残，党同门，妒道真，违明诏，失圣意，以陷于文吏之议，甚为二三君子不取也。
其言甚切，诸儒皆怨恨。
是时，名儒光禄大夫龚胜以歆移书上疏深自罪责，愿乞骸骨罢。
及儒者师丹为大司空，亦大怒，奏歆改乱旧章，非毁先帝所立。
上曰： 歆欲广道术，亦何以为非毁哉！
translation: 
They explain and recite biographies without words, believe in inferior teachers and criticize the past events. As for the important events of the country, such as the ceremony of setting up Yong, sealing Shan, and patrolling hunting, they are confused and don't know what should be done.
We still have to be clingy and conservative, with selfishness that is afraid of being exposed, instead of obeying the public spirit of kindness and righteousness, or being jealous and not thinking about the truth, following the same people, listening to the voices to agree with right and wrong, suppressing these three kinds of knowledge, thinking that "Shangshu" is complete, saying that Zuo did not interpret "Spring and Autumn", isn't it very sad!
Nowadays, the saints are virtuous and connected with the gods. They inherit the throne and inherit the industry. They also regret that the articles are messed up. There are so many scholars. Although they understand the true feelings, they are still hesitant and modest, and they are willing to be like the gentlemen.
Therefore, an edict was issued to debate whether the "Zuo Shi" could be established, and close ministers were sent with orders to help the weak. Together with two or three gentlemen, they worked together in the hope of reestablishing the abandoned scriptures.
This is not the case now. He hides his deep stubbornness and refuses to debate. He simply annihilates it by not reciting it. He wants to block the remaining avenue and extinguish the subtle knowledge.
You can share the results with him, but it is difficult to consider starting a business with him. This is what ordinary people do, not what celebrities and gentlemen do.
Moreover, the late emperor personally talked about the affairs of these families. Now the emperor has examined and found out that those ancient texts and old books have been verified. The internal and external are consistent. Is it possible to just give up?
If etiquette is lost, look for it among the people. Aren’t ancient texts better than the people?
In the past, Dr. Ouyang was included in the "Book", Gongyang was included in the "Chunqiu", and Shi and Meng were included in the "Yi". However, Emperor Xiaoxuan also widely established the "Gu Liang Chunqiu", "Liangqiu Yi", and "Xiahou Shangshu". Although the meanings and purposes are different, they are still set together.
Why?
Rather than abandon it because it is wrong, it is better to establish it because it is wrong.
Explanation of the biography: The way of civility and martial arts does not fall to the ground, but is in the world; a wise person remembers the big aspects, and the unworthy person remembers the small aspects.
Nowadays, the opinions of these families have different meanings. How can they be partial?
If it is necessary to be arbitrary and deferential, to form cliques within the same sect, to be jealous of the true way, to disobey the clear edict, to lose the holy will, and to be overwhelmed by the discussions of civil servants, I very much hope that these two or three gentlemen will not do this.
His words were very profound, and the Confucian scholars were very resentful.
At this time, Gong Sheng, a famous scholar and Guanglu doctor, deeply blamed himself for Liu Xin's letter to the emperor, hoping to ask for the bones to go home.
As for the Confucian scholar Shi Dan, Da Sikong, he was also furious and reported to Liu Xin that he had changed the old rules and slandered the teachings established by the late emperor.
The emperor said: Liu Xin wants to promote Taoism, how can it be regarded as slander?


Chunk 20: 
original: 
歆由是忤执政大臣，为众儒所讪，惧诛，求出补吏，为河内太守。
以宗室不宜典三河，徙守五原，后复转在涿郡，历三郡守。
数年，以病免官，起家复为安定属国都尉。
会哀帝崩，王莽持政，莽少与歆俱为黄门郎，重之，白太后。
太后留歆为右曹太中大夫，迁中垒校尉、羲和、京兆尹，使治明堂辟雍，封红休侯。
典儒林史卜之官，考定律历，著《三统历谱》。
初，歆以建平元年改名秀，字颖叔云。
及王莽篡位，歆为国师，后事皆在《莽传》。
赞曰：仲尼称 材难，不其然与！
自孔子后，缀文之士众矣，唯孟轲、孙况、董仲舒、司马迁、刘向、杨雄，此数公者，皆博物洽闻，通达古今，其言有补于世。
传曰 圣人不出，其间必有命世者焉 ，岂近是乎？
刘氏《洪范论》发明《大传》，著天人之应；《七略》剖判艺文，总百家之绪；《三统历谱》考步日月五星之度，有意其推本之也。
呜虖！
向言山陵之戎，于今察之，哀哉！
指明梓柱以推废兴，昭矣！
岂非直谅多闻，古之益友与！
translation: 
From then on, Liu Xin offended the ministers in power and was slandered by the Confucian scholars. He was afraid of being killed, so he asked to go out of Beijing to serve as an official and become the governor of Hanoi.
Because the clan should not be in charge of Sanhe, he was transferred to Wuyuan Prefecture, and later to Zhuojun, and served as prefecture of three counties in total.
A few years later, he was dismissed from the official position due to illness, and he was appointed as the captain of the stable state.
When Emperor Ai died, Wang Mang took charge. When he was young, Wang Mang and Liu Xin were both Huangmenlang, so they valued him and reported it to the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother left Liu Xin to serve as the Taizhong doctor of Youcao, and he was promoted to the rank of Zhongbao Xiaowei, Xihe, Jingzhaoyin, put him in charge of Mingtang Piyong, and was granted the title of Hongxiuhou.
He was in charge of the scholar's fortune teller, studied music rhythms and calendars, and wrote the "Three Unifications Calendar".
At first, Liu Xin changed his name to Xiu in the first year of Jianping, and his courtesy name was Uncle Ying.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, Liu Xin became the national advisor, and everything that follows is in the "Mang Biography".
Praise: Zhongni lamented that talented people are rare, isn’t it true?
After Confucius, there were many people who wrote books, but only Meng Ke, Sun Kuang, Dong Zhongshu, Sima Qian, Liu Xiang, and Yang Xiong. These gentlemen were all knowledgeable and well-versed in ancient and modern times, and their comments were beneficial to the times.
Legend has it that if a saint does not appear, there must be someone famous in the world.
Isn't it reasonable? Liu's "Hongfan Lun" develops the "Da Zhuan" and shows that heaven and man respond accordingly; "Qi Lue" distinguishes art and literature and figures out the clues of hundreds of schools of thought; "Santong Calendar" determines the divisions of the sun and the moon. The ultimate foundation and profound meaning.
ah!
Liu Xiang's warning about mountains and mausoleums is very sad to see today!
How clear it is to point out the matter of the Catalpa Pillar to infer the failure of prosperity!
Isn’t it true that people with direct faith and more knowledge are what the ancients call beneficial friends?


