Chunk 0: 
original: 
公孙弘，菑川薛人也。
少时为狱吏，有罪，免。
家贫，牧豕海上。
年四十余，乃学《春秋》杂说。
武帝初即位，招贤良文学士，是时，弘年六十，以贤良征为博士。
使匈奴，还报，不合意，上怒，以为不能，弘乃移病免归。
元光五年，复征贤良文学，菑川国复推上弘。
弘谢曰： 前已尝西，用不能罢，愿更选。
国人固推弘，弘至太常。
上策诏诸儒：
translation: 
Gongsun Hong was born in Xue County, Sichuan State.
He worked as a jailer when he was young. Removed from office for committing a crime.
Because his family was poor, he made a living by herding pigs on the beach.
When he was in his forties, he began to study "Spring and Autumn" and miscellaneous treatises of various schools.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty first came to the throne, he recruited virtuous and literary people. At this time, Gongsun Hong was sixty years old and got a doctorate as a virtuous and literary person.
He was sent as an envoy to the Huns and returned to the court to report, which was not in line with the emperor's wishes. Emperor Wu was very angry and thought he was incompetent, so Gongsun Hong wrote a letter claiming to be ill and was dismissed from office and returned to his hometown.
In the fifth year of Yuanguang, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty once again selected virtuous literary people, and Dong Weihui once again recommended Gong Zhucong.
Gong Chuicong declined and said: I went west to Beijing in the past and was dismissed because of my incompetence. I hope to choose someone else.
But the people of the country insisted on recommending him, so Gongsun Hong came to Taichang.
The emperor went down to Shao Shu Ce and asked all the Confucian scholars:


Chunk 1: 
original: 
制曰：盖闻上古至治，画衣冠，异章服，而民不犯；阴阳和，五谷登，六畜蕃，甘露降，风雨时，嘉禾兴，朱草生，山不童，泽不涸；麟凤在郊薮，龟龙游于沼，河洛出图书；父不丧子，兄不哭弟；北发渠搜，南抚交阯，舟车所至，人迹所及，跂行喙息，咸得其宜。
朕甚嘉之，今何道而臻乎此？
子大夫修先圣之术，明君臣之义，讲论洽闻，有声乎当世，敢问子大夫：天人之道，何所本始？
吉凶之效，安所期焉？
禹、汤水旱，厥咎何由？
仁、义、礼、知四者之宜，当安设施？
属统垂业，物鬼变化，天命之符，废兴何如？
天文、地理、人事之纪，子大夫习焉。
translation: 
The bookmaker wrote: I heard that in ancient times, when politics was perfect, the punishment for criminals was to mark their clothes and hats and let them wear special clothes, but the common people did not break the law. At that time, Yin and Yang were in harmony, the grains were abundant, the livestock were multiplying, the dew fell from the sky, the weather was smooth, the rice with full grains grew, the red auspicious grass appeared, the mountains were covered with dense forests and lush grass, and the lakes did not dry up. Unicorns and phoenixes appear in the lakes on the outskirts of the city. Turtles and dragons swim in the ponds, rivers produce pictures, and Luo produces books. A son will not die before his father, nor will a younger brother die before his elder brother. At that time, as far as Qusou in the north and Jiaodu in the south, as long as it was reachable by cars and boats and people could walk, all living beings had their own place.
I admire that era very much. How can we govern the country now to reach this state?
You have studied the laws of the sages, you are well versed in the principles of the superiority and inferiority of kings and ministers, and you are very insightful in your discussions. You are all very famous today. I dare to ask you: What is the most fundamental way of heaven and man?
How to predict good and bad luck?
Floods and droughts occurred during the reign of Yu and Tang. What were their faults?
What methods should be used to perfect and coordinate the four aspects of benevolence, righteousness, propriety, and wisdom?
The succession of the imperial line, the vagaries of life and death, the signs of divine destiny, how did all these rise and fall happen?
The laws of astronomy, geography, and human affairs, flowers are what you study.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
其悉意正议，详具其对，著之于篇，朕将亲览焉，靡有所隐。
弘对曰：
臣闻上古尧、舜之时，不贵爵常而民劝善，不重刑罚而民不犯，躬率以正而遇民信也；末世贵爵厚赏而民不劝，深刑重罚而奸不止，其上不正，遇民不信也。
夫厚赏重刑未足以劝善而禁非，必信而已矣。
是故因能任官，则分职治；去无用之言，则事情得；不作无用之器，即赋敛省；不夺民时，不妨民力，则百姓富；有德者进，无德者退，则朝廷尊；有功者上，无功者下，则群臣逡；罚当罪，则奸邪止；赏当贤，则臣下劝：凡此八者，治民之本也。
translation: 
Please write down what you think is a comprehensive and correct discussion into a detailed article. I will read it personally and don’t hide anything.
Gongsun Hong replied:
I heard that in the ancient times of Yao and Shun, they did not pay much attention to titles and rewards, but the people worked hard to do good; they did not advocate the use of severe punishments, but the people did not break the law easily. This was because Yao and Shun themselves acted righteously and had faith in their treatment of the people. The age of decline. They attach great importance to titles and generous rewards, but the people are not encouraged to do good; they impose severe punishments, but they cannot prevent evil things from happening. This is because the king himself is not upright and has no faith in his treatment of the people.
We must be trustworthy towards the people, otherwise, generous rewards and cruel punishments will not be enough to encourage good deeds and prohibit crime.
Therefore, if palace positions are awarded according to talents, officials will be able to master their own duties and achieve political clarity; if they do not listen to useless discussions, then things can be done; if they do not make useless utensils, they can reduce taxes; if they do not delay farming and do not harm the people's strength, then the people will become rich; if they promote virtuous people, they will be demoted If there are immoral people, then the court will be able to establish prestige; if those who have merit are promoted and those who have no merit are demoted, then officials will not compete for power; if criminals are appropriately punished, then treacherous and evil things will be stopped; if virtuous people are appropriately rewarded, then officials will be encouraged. Summarizing these eight principles is the fundamental strategy for governing the people.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
故民者，业之即不争，理得则不怨，有礼则不暴，爱之则亲上，此有天下之急者也。
故法不远义，则民服而不离；和不远礼，则民亲而不暴。
故法之所罚，义之所去也；和之所赏，礼之所取也。
礼义者，民之所服也，而赏罚顺之，则民不犯禁矣。故画衣冠，异章服，而民不犯者，此道素行也。
臣闻之，气同则从，声比则应。
今人主和德于上，百姓和合于下，故心和则气和，气和则形和，形和则声和，声和则天地之和应矣。
故阴阳和，风雨时，甘露降，五谷登，六畜蕃，嘉禾兴，朱草生，山不童，泽不涸，此和之至也。
故形和则无疾，无疾则不夭，故父不丧子，兄不哭弟。
德配天地，明并日月，则麟凤至，龟龙在郊，河出图，洛出书，远方之君莫不说义，奉币而来朝，此和之极也。
臣闻之，仁者爱也，义者宜也，礼者所履也，智者术之原也。
致利除害，兼爱无私，谓之仁；明是非，立可否，谓之义；进退有度，尊卑有分，谓之礼；擅杀生之柄，通壅塞之涂，权轻重之数，论得失之道，使远近情伪必见于上，谓之术：凡此四者，治之本，道之用也，皆当设施，不可废也。
得其要，则天下安乐，法设而不用；不得其术，则主蔽于上，官乱于下。
此事之情，属统垂业之本也。
translation: 
If the people have their own affairs, they will not fight; if they can each express their own interests, there will be no complaints; if they are treated with courtesy, the people will not be arrogant; if they love the people as sons, the people will trust and be close to the emperor. These are the top priorities of the emperor.
Therefore, if the laws and regulations do not violate the righteousness, the people will be convinced and will not rebel; if the etiquette advocated does not violate the etiquette, the people will be loyal and not arrogant.
Therefore, what is punished by the legal system is also forbidden by justice; what promotes rewards must be advocated by etiquette.
What the people believe in is etiquette and justice. If rewards and punishments comply with etiquette and justice, then the people will not break the law: in ancient times, only symbolic punishments such as painting clothes and wearing different seals prevented the people from breaking the law, because they always followed etiquette and justice at that time.
I heard that people with similar interests can be together, and people with similar voices can be harmonious.
Now the emperor implements virtuous government at the top, and the people are of one mind and virtuous at the bottom. Therefore, if you are of one heart and one mind, your aspirations will be unified, your actions will be unified, and your actions will be coordinated, your speech will be coordinated. If speech is coordinated, then the harmony between heaven and earth will correspond to it.
Yin and yang are in harmony, the weather is smooth, the dew falls from the sky, the grains are abundant, the livestock multiply, the Jiashi rice with full grains grows, the red auspicious grass grows, the mountains and forests are dense, and the lakes are full of water, these are the scenes produced by the harmony.
A well-coordinated body will not get sick, and without illness, it will not die young. A father will not lose his son, and an elder brother will not cry because his younger brother died prematurely.
The benevolence of the Holy King is as high as the sky and as bright as the sun and the moon, so auspicious unicorns and phoenixes appear, and auspicious turtles and dragons appear in the lakes and lakes in the suburbs. Pictures are drawn from the river, and books are published from Luo. Countries far away admire him and send envoys with gifts to surrender and pay homage. This is the pinnacle of the peace agreement.
There is a sense of propriety in advancing and retreating, and there is a distinction between superiority and inferiority, which is called etiquette. Monopolizing the power of life and death, opening blocked roads, weighing priorities, exploring gains and losses, and exposing the true and false things around and far away are called techniques.
The above four articles are the fundamental principles and methods for governing the world. They should all be formulated and implemented and cannot be abandoned.
If you master the key points, the world will be happy and peaceful. Although the criminal law is established, it will not be used because no one breaks the law. If you cannot master these methods, the emperor will be deceived and the officials will cause chaos.
The gains and losses of these things are the basis for inheriting and continuing the achievements of our ancestors.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
臣闻尧遭鸿水，使禹治之，未闻禹之有水也。
若汤之旱，则桀之余烈也。
桀、纣行恶，受天之罚；禹、汤积德，以王天下。
因此观之，天德无私亲，顺之和起，逆之害生。
此天文、地理、人事之纪。
臣弘愚戆，不足以奉大对。
时对者百余人，太常奏弘第居下。
策奏，天子擢弘对为第一。
召见，容貌甚丽，拜为博士，待诏金马门。
弘复上疏曰： 陛下有先圣之位而无先圣之名，有先圣之民而无先圣之吏，是以势同而治异。
先世之吏正，故其民笃；今世之吏邪，故其民薄。
政弊而不行，令倦而不听。
夫使邪吏行弊政，用倦令治薄民，民不可得而化，此治之所以异也。
臣闻周公旦治天下，期年而变，三年而化，五年而定。
translation: 
I heard that there were floods in Yao's time and he sent Yu to control them. I didn't hear that there were floods when Yu was in charge of the world.
As for the drought in the Shang Tang era, it was caused by the remnants of Xia Jie.
Xia Jie and Shang Zhou implemented evil policies and were punished by heaven; Dayu and Shang Tang did good deeds and accumulated virtue, so they became kings of the world.
From this point of view, God does not have personal preferences, likes and dislikes. If you comply with God's virtues, harmony will prosper. If you go against the grain, disasters will happen.
Creation is the law of astronomy, geography, and human affairs.
I am foolish and reckless, and I am not qualified to answer the emperor's policy questions.
At that time, there were more than a hundred people who responded to the imperial edict. When Taichang reported the results of the edict, Gongsun Hong was ranked lower.
After the strategy slip was presented to the emperor, the emperor selected Gongsun Hong's strategy as the first.
Gongsun Hong was summoned to see him. The emperor saw that he was a talented person, so he appointed him as a doctor and waited for the Shao Jin Ma Alliance.
Gongsun Hong once again wrote to Shu and said: Your Majesty has the position of the First Sage but not the reputation of the First Sage, and has the reputation of the First Sage but does not have the officials of the First Sage. Therefore, your Majesty is in the same situation as the First Sage, but the results of his governance are different.
In the past, the officials were honest, so the people were loyal; now, the officials are greedy, so the people are vulgar.
Bad politics will not be implemented, and hateful laws will not be obeyed.
Appointing corrupt officials to implement bad governance and using abhorrent laws to govern vulgar people will make it impossible for the people to be educated, which is why different governance results will occur.
I heard that when Duke Zhou governed the world, changes occurred in one year. In three years, the people were educated, and in five years, the world was at peace.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
唯陛下之所志。
书奏，天子以册书答曰： 问：弘称周公之治，弘之材能自视孰与周公贤？
弘对曰： 愚臣浅薄，安敢比材于周公！
虽然，愚心晓然见治道之可以然也。
去虎豹马牛，禽兽之不可制者也，及其教驯服习之，至可牵持驾服，唯人之从。
臣闻揉曲术者不累日，销金石者不累月，夫人之于利害好恶，岂比禽兽木石之类哉？
期年而变，臣弘尚窃迟之。
上异其言。
时方通西南夷，巴、蜀苦之，诏使弘视焉。
还奏事，盛毁西南夷无所用，上不听。
每朝会议，开陈其端，使人主自择，不肯面折庭争。
于是上察其行慎厚，辩论有余，习文法吏事，缘饰以儒术，上说之，一岁中至左内史。
弘奏事，有所不可，不肯庭辩。
translation: 
This is what His Majesty longs for.
After the memorial was submitted, the emperor replied in a book: Question: Gongsun Hong praised Zhou Gong's rule, so who do you think is more talented than Zhou Gong?
Gongsun Hong replied: My knowledge is shallow, how dare I compare with Duke Zhou!
Even so, I still understand that by practicing governance now, we can reach the state of governance of the sages.
Tigers, leopards, horses and cows are all wild beasts that are difficult to command. Once they are tamed by a trainer, they can be controlled and used to make them obey human orders.
I heard that straight wood can be bent by drying in a few days, and gold and stone can be melted in a few months. How can people's knowledge of interests and dislikes be compared to that of animals, wood and stone?
I think it takes a year to change the country, which is too slow.
The emperor was surprised by his words.
At that time, there had just been contacts with the southwestern barbarians, and the two counties of Bashu and Bashu were suffering from worship work. The emperor issued an edict and sent Gongsun Hong to inspect.
When he reported back to the court, he strongly opposed the transportation of southwestern Yi and believed that it was useless. The emperor did not listen to his opinion.
Whenever there was a political meeting in the court, Gongsun Hong would state his opinions and let the emperor make his own choice, rather than refute or argue face to face in the court.
From this, the emperor saw that his behavior was cautious and honest, he left room for debate, he was familiar with documents, laws and official duties, and he decorated it with Confucianism, so he liked him very much and promoted him to Zuo Neishi within a year.
When Gongsun Hong went to court, he did not argue in court if he thought something was wrong.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
常与主爵都尉汲黯请间，黯先发之，弘推其后，上常说，所言皆听，以此日益亲贵。
尝与公卿约议，至上前，皆背其约以顺上指。
汲黯庭诘弘曰： 齐人多诈而无情，始为与臣等建此议，今皆背之，不忠。
上问弘，弘谢曰： 夫知臣者以臣为忠，不知臣者以臣为不忠。
上然弘言。
左右幸臣每毁弘，上益厚遇之。
弘为人谈笑多闻，常称以为人主病不广大，人臣病不俭节。
养后母孝谨，后母卒，服丧三年。
为内史数年，迁御史大夫。
时又东置苍海，北筑朔方之郡。
弘数谏，以为罢弊中国以奉无用之地，愿罢之。
于是上乃使朱买臣等难弘置朔方之便。
发十策，弘不得一。
弘乃谢曰： 山东鄙人，不知其便若是，愿罢西南夷、苍海，专奉朔方。
上乃许之。
translation: 
He often went to see the emperor one after another with Ji An, the lord captain. Ji An raised questions first, and Gongsun Hong then elaborated. The emperor was often very happy and listened to everything he said. As a result, Gongsun Hong became more and more favored.
He once made an appointment with the minister to make some suggestions, but when he came to the emperor, he completely reneged on the agreement and followed the emperor's intention.
Ji An accused Gongsun Hong in court: Many people in Qi are hypocritical and dishonest. They first made the above suggestions to the ministers, and now completely betrayed the previous agreement. This is disloyal to the king.
The emperor asked Gongsun Hong, and Gongsun Hong apologized and said: Those who know me well think that I am loyal to the king; those who do not know me think that I am unfaithful.
The emperor thought his words made sense.
The emperor's favorites slandered Gongsun Hong, but the emperor treated him more and more favorably.
Gongsun Hong was good at talking and well-informed. He often said that what a monarch fears is not being magnanimous and magnanimous, and what a minister fears is not being frugal.
He served his stepmother respectfully and filially. When his stepmother died, he spent three years in mourning.
After working as a historian for several years, Gongsun Hong was promoted to the imperial censor.
At that time, Canghai County was newly established in the east, and Shuofang County was built in the north.
Gongsun Hong advised him several times, thinking that it was a waste of money and people to manage a useless place, and it was not worth the exhaustion of the Central Plains area, so he hoped to stop it.
The emperor then ordered Zhu Maichen and others to refute Gongsun Hong and demonstrate the necessity of establishing Shuofang County.
Zhu Maichen and others raised ten questions, but Gongsun Hong could not refute any of them.
So he apologized to the emperor and said: I am a vulgar person from Shandong. I don't understand how beneficial it is to establish Shuofang County. I hope to stop moving to Southwest Yi and Canghai County and focus on running Shuofang County.
The emperor then agreed to his request.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
汲黯曰： 弘位在三公，奉禄甚多，然为布被，此诈也。
上问弘，弘谢曰： 有之。
夫九卿与臣善者无过黯，然今日庭诘弘，诚中弘之病。
夫以三公为布被，诚饰诈欲以钓名。
且臣闻管仲相齐，有三归，侈拟于君，桓公以霸，亦上僣于君。
晏婴相景公，食不重肉，妾不衣丝，齐国亦治，亦下比于民。
今臣弘位为御史大夫，为布被，自九卿以下至于小吏无差，诚如黯言。
且无黯，陛下安闻此言？
上以为有让，愈益贤之。
元朔中，代薛泽为丞相。
translation: 
Ji An said: Gongsun Hong is ranked among the three nobles and has a lot of salary, but he uses cloth to make quilts. This is hypocrisy.
The emperor asked Gongsun Hong, and he apologized and said: There is such a thing.
Among the nine ministers, no one has a better friendship with me than Ji An, but today when he questioned me in court, he really hit on my weakness.
As one of the Three Lords, using a cloth quilt is indeed a pretense and deception, in order to gain fame and reputation.
I heard that when Guan Zhong was the prime minister of Qi, he married three women with different surnames. His luxury was comparable to that of a monarch. Duke Huan of Qi relied on his assistance to dominate, but he was against an arrogant king.
Yan Ying served as Qi Jinggong's prime minister. He did not eat two portions of meat and vegetables for one meal, and his concubines did not wear silk clothes. Qi State was also governed very well. He was looking down on the common people.
Now I, Gongsun Hong, serve as the imperial censor. I use cloth quilts to eliminate the distinction between high and low officials from Jiuqing to the junior officials. It's exactly what Ji An said.
Besides, without Ji An, how could your Majesty hear what I said?
The emperor thought he could be polite and respected him more and more.
During the Yuanshuo period, Gongsun Hong replaced Xue Ze as prime minister.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
先是，汉常以列侯为丞相，唯弘无爵，上于是下诏曰： 朕嘉先圣之道，开广门路，宣招四方之士，盖古者任贤而序位，量能以授官，劳大者厥禄厚，德盛者获爵尊，故武功以显重，而文德以行褒。
其以高成之平津乡户六百五十封丞相弘为平津侯。
其后以为故事，至丞相封，自弘始也。
时，上方兴功业，娄举贤良。
弘自见为举首，起徒步，数年至宰相封侯，于是起客馆，开东阁以延贤人，与参谋议。
弘身食一肉，脱粟饭，故人宾客仰衣食，奉禄皆以给之，家无所余。
然其性意忌，外宽内深。
诸常与弘有隙，无近远，虽阳与善，后竟报其过。
杀主父偃，徙董仲舒胶西，皆弘力也。
后淮南、衡山谋反，治党与方急，弘病甚，自以为无功而封侯，居宰相位，宜佐明主填抚国家，使人由臣子之道。
今诸侯有畔逆之计，此大臣奉职不称也。
translation: 
In the original Han Dynasty, princes were generally appointed as prime ministers. Only Gongsun Hong did not have a title. The emperor issued an edict: "I admire the way of governing the country by the sages. I open the door wide and recruit wise men from all over." In ancient times, positions were arranged according to merit, and different palace positions were awarded based on talents. People with great merits received generous salaries, and people with high virtues received prestigious titles. Therefore, those with martial arts were promoted, and those with literary virtues were praised.
We hereby order that 650 households in Pingjin Township, Gaocheng County, be granted to Prime Minister Gongsun Hong and be granted the title of Marquis of Pingjin.
This became the system thereafter. The promotion of officials to prime minister and the title of marquis began with Gongsun Hong.
At that time, when the emperor was making great achievements, he repeatedly selected virtuous people.
Gongsun Hong stood out because he was the first to take countermeasures. He was dressed in white cloth, and a few years later he was promoted to prime minister and was granted the title of marquis. For this reason, he built a guesthouse, opened the gates, invited wise men, and discussed matters with them.
Gongsun Hong himself only ate a meat dish and brown rice for each meal. His relatives, friends and guests all relied on him to provide food and clothing. As a result, he spent all his salary and there was nothing left at home.
But he has a jealous temperament, and is gentle on the outside but deep inside.
Those who have had quarrels with Gongsun Hong, no matter near or far, although he is friendly to them on the surface, they will always seek revenge in the end.
It was Gongsun Hong's idea to kill his father Yan and demote Dong Zhongshu to Jiaoxi.
Later, the King of Huainan and the King of Hengshan rebelled, and when the court was severely investigating their accomplices, Gongsun Hong fell seriously ill. He felt that he had done nothing, so he was granted the title of marquis and held the position of prime minister. He should assist the wise emperor to calm down and pacify the country, so that people would follow the moral principles of a minister.
Now there is rebellion among the princes and kings, which is caused by the incompetence of the ministers.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
恐病死无以塞责，乃上书曰： 臣闻天下通道五，所以行之者三。
君臣、父子、夫妇、长幼、朋友之交，五者天下之通道也；仁、知、勇三者，所以行之也。
故曰 好问近乎知，力行近乎仁，知耻近乎勇，知此三者，知所以自治；知所以自治，然后知所以治人。
未有不能自治而能治人者也。
陛下躬孝弟，监三王，建周道，兼文武，招徕四方之士，任贤序位，量能授官，将以厉百姓劝贤材也。
今臣愚驽，无汗马之劳，陛下过意擢臣弘卒伍之中，封为列侯，致位三公。
臣弘行能不足以称，加有负薪之疾，恐先狗马填沟壑，终无以报德塞责。
愿归侯，乞骸骨，避贤者路。
上报曰： 古者赏有功，褒有德，守成上文，遭遇右武，未有易此者也。
朕夙夜庶几，获承至尊，惧不能宁，惟所与共为治者，君宜知之。
盖君子善善及后世，若兹行，常在朕躬。
君不幸罹霜露之疾，何恙不已，乃上书归侯，乞骸骨，是章朕之不德也。
今事少闲，君其存精神，止念虑，辅助医药以自恃。
translation: 
He was afraid that he would die of illness and would not be able to explain, so he wrote a letter saying: I heard that there are five aspects of the normal way in the world, and there are three ways to practice it.
The five aspects of monarch and minister, father and son, husband and wife, elders and children, and friendship among friends are the common way of the world; benevolence, wisdom, and courage are the three virtues that implement the common way.
Therefore, when in doubt, asking is closer to wisdom, practicing one's own actions is closer to benevolence, and knowing integrity is closer to courage. If you understand these three principles, you will know how to cultivate your character and self-discipline; only then you will know how to govern the people.
There is no one who cannot govern himself but can govern the people.
His Majesty personally practiced filial piety, learned from the three kings, and established political decrees like the Zhou Dynasty. He had the virtues of King Wen and the talent of King Wu. He recruited people from all over, selected talented people to serve, and appointed officials according to their ability. This was a practice that could inspire the people to encourage talented people.
Now that I am ignorant and have no talents, and I have no hard work, Your Majesty attaches too much importance to promoting me from among the soldiers, making me a prince, and reaching the rank of three Dukes.
My moral character and ability are not worthy of such a high official title, and I am ill. I am afraid that I will be buried in a ditch before dogs and horses. In the end, I will not be able to repay the emperor's kindness, nor will I be able to fulfill my duties faithfully.
I want to return the title of marquis, resign and retire, and make way for talented people.
The emperor replied: Since ancient times, we have rewarded those who have meritorious service and commended those who are virtuous. We advocate civil rule when we are successful, and we advocate martial arts in troubled times. This principle has never changed.
I work hard day and night to become a talented person and inherit the throne, but I am worried and cannot rest in peace. I just want to work with all the ministers to govern the world, and you know how to govern the country.
A gentleman praises goodness, and his good deeds will bless future generations. If you act accordingly, I will always think of you.
Unfortunately, you are suffering from a minor illness, why worry about not being cured? I actually submitted a letter of resignation to the Marquis and asked to retire and resign. This shows my immorality.
There are not many things going on in the court now. You can take care of your spirit, don't worry about it, and seek medical advice and take medicine to recover your body.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
因赐告牛、酒、杂帛。
居数月，有瘳，视事。
凡为丞相御史六岁，年八十，终丞相位。
其后李蔡、严青翟、赵周、石庆、公孙贺、刘屈氂继踵为丞相。
自蔡至庆，丞相府客馆丘虚而已，至贺、屈氂时坏以为马厩车库奴婢室矣。
唯庆以惇谨，复终相位，其余尽伏诛云。
弘子度嗣侯，为山阳太守十余岁，诏征巨野令史成诣公车，度留不遣，坐论为城旦。
元始中，修功臣后，下诏曰： 汉兴以来，股肱在位，身行俭约，轻财重义，未有若公孙弘者也。
位在宰相封侯，而为布被脱粟之饭，奉禄以给故人宾客，无有所余，可谓减于制度，而率下笃俗者也，与内厚富而外为诡服以钓虚誉者殊科。
translation: 
Therefore, he was given a vacation, cattle, wine and all kinds of silk and silk.
After a few months, Gongsun Hong recovered from his illness and became a director of the court.
Gongsun Hong served as prime minister and imperial censor for a total of six years. He died in office as prime minister when he was eighty years old.
After him, Li Cai, Yan Qingzhai, Dan Zhou, Shi Qing, Gongsun He, and Liu Quyou became prime ministers one after another.
From the time of Li Cai to the time of Shi Qing, the guest house of the Prime Minister's Mansion was desolate and dilapidated. By the time of Gongsun He and Liu Qusao, the guest house was dilapidated and converted into stables, garages and housing for slaves.
Among these people, only Shi Qing was honest and rigorous. After Gong Sunhong, Shou finally became the prime minister. The rest were all convicted and executed.
Gongsun Hong's son Gongsun Du succeeded the marquis and served as the governor of Shanyang County for more than ten years. The emperor summoned Shi Cheng, the magistrate of Juye County, and asked him to wait for the bus. However, Gongsun Du kept him from going on the road, so he was found guilty and sentenced to four years of hard labor.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, when praising the descendants of heroes, the emperor issued an edict saying: Since the founding of the Han Dynasty, none of the ministers can compare with Gongsun Hong.
He was appointed prime minister and granted the title of marquis, but he covered himself with quilts, ate brown rice, and used his salary to provide for old guests, so that he had nothing left. The food and clothing he enjoys are below the standards stipulated by the system. It can be said that they use themselves as an example to promote simple folk customs, which is completely different from those who hide their wealth but dress frugally on the surface to gain a false reputation.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
夫表德章义，所以率世厉俗，圣王之也。
其赐弘后子孙之次见为適者，爵关内侯，食邑三百户。
卜式，河南人也。
以田畜为事。
有少弟，弟壮，式脱身出，独取畜羊百余，田宅财物尽与弟。
式入山牧，十余年，羊致千余头，买田宅。
而弟尽破其产，式辄复分与弟者数矣。
时汉方事匈奴，式上书，愿输家财半助边。
上使使问式： 欲为官乎？
式曰： 自小牧羊，不习仕宦，不愿也。
使者曰： 家岂有冤，欲言事乎？
式曰： 臣生与人亡所争，邑人贫者贷之，不善者教之，所居，人皆从式，式何故见冤！
使者曰： 苟，子何欲？
式曰： 天子诛匈奴，愚以为贤者宜死节，有财者宜输之，如此而匈奴可灭也。
使者以闻。
上以语丞相弘。
弘曰： 此非人情。
不轨之臣不可以为化而乱法，愿陛下勿许。
translation: 
It is the law of the Holy King to guide by commending virtues and righteous deeds and encourage changes in secular folk customs.
The direct descendants of Gongsun Hong were given the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a settlement of 300 households.
Bu Shi, from Henan.
The occupation is farming and animal husbandry.
He had a younger brother. When he grew up, Bu Shi separated from his family and took over a hundred sheep. He gave all his farm, house and property to his younger brother.
Bu Shi had been tending sheep in the mountains for more than ten years, and there were more than a thousand sheep, so he bought a farm and a house.
But his younger brother went bankrupt, and Bu Shi immediately distributed the property to his younger brother. This happened many times.
At that time, the Han Dynasty was resisting the invasion of the Huns, and Bu Shi wrote a letter willing to donate half of his family wealth to help the border affairs.
The emperor sent a human divination: Do you want to be an official?
Shi said: Shepherding sheep since childhood, I am not familiar with how to be an official and do not want to be an official.
The messenger said: Don’t you have any enemies in your family that you want to tell them about?
Bu Shi said: I was born with no quarrels with others. I lent money to the poor people in the city, taught me good deeds from unkind people, and got along well with others in my residence. How could Bu Shi be wronged?
The messenger said: What do you want to do?
Bu Shi said: When the emperor fights against the Huns, I believe that wise men should die for the sake of the festival, and those with money should contribute money, so that the Huns can be destroyed.
The messenger reported to the court.
The emperor told Prime Minister Gongsun Hong again.
Gongsun Hong said: This is not a normal behavior.
An unruly minister cannot be used as an example to follow. I hope Your Majesty will not agree.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
上不报，数岁乃置式。
式归，复田牧。
岁余，会浑邪等降，县官费众，仓府空，贫民大徙，皆卬给县官，无以尽赡。
式复持钱二十万与河南太守，以给徙民。
河南上富人助贫民者，上识式姓名，曰： 是固前欲输其家半财助边。
乃赐式外繇四百人，式又尽复与官。
是时，富豪皆争匿财，唯式尤欲助费。
上于是以式终长者，乃召拜式为中郎，赐爵左庶长，田十顷，布告天下，尊显以风百姓。
初，式不愿为郎，上曰： 吾有羊在上林中，欲令子牧之。
式既为郎，布衣草蹻而牧羊。
岁余，羊肥息。
上过其羊所，善之。
式曰： 非独羊也，治民亦犹是矣。
以时起居，恶者辄去，毋令败群。
上奇其言，欲试使治民。
拜式缑氏令，缑氏便之；迁成皋令，将漕最。
translation: 
The emperor did not accept Bu Shi's request, and returned to Bu Shi a few years later.
After Bu Shi returned to his hometown, he resumed his sheep herding business.
A year later, King Hunxie and others surrendered to the Han Dynasty. The state expenses were too high, the warehouses were empty, and the poor people were migrating. They all relied on state supplies, but they could not fully provide them.
Bu Shi also gave 200,000 yuan to the governor of Henan to save the refugees.
When Henan reported a list of rich people to help the poor, the emperor recognized Bu Shi and said: He is the one who insists on giving half of his family property to help the poor.
So Bu Shi was given 400 servants, and all of them were returned to the government.
At that time, the rich were all scrambling to hide their property, but Bu Shi especially wanted to help the country with expenses.
The emperor then respected Bu Shi as an elder, summoned Bu Shi to be the middle man, granted him the rank of Zuo Shu Zhang, and ten hectares of farmland, and announced it to the world to show his respect and encourage the people to follow his example.
At first, Bu Shi was unwilling to become a husband. The emperor said, "I have sheep in Shanglin Garden, and I want you to graze them."
After Bu Shi became a Langguan, he still wore commoners and straw sandals to herd sheep.
After more than a year, the sheep became fat and multiplied.
The emperor passed by the sheep herding field and praised him very much.
Bu Shi said: Not only shepherding sheep, but also governing the people.
Live on time, get rid of the bad ones immediately, and don't let them harm others.
The emperor was surprised by his words and wanted him to try to govern the people.
Renbu Shi was appointed as the Feng family order, and the Feng family was in great control; he was moved to the Gao order to be in charge of water transportation, and he was the best in the assessment.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
上以式朴忠，拜为齐王太傅，转为相。
会吕嘉反，式上书曰： 臣闻主愧臣死。
群臣宜尽死节，其驽下者宜出财以佐军，如是则强国不犯之道也。
臣愿与子男及临菑习弩博昌习船者请行死之，以尽臣节。
上贤之，下诏曰： 朕闻报德以德，报怨以直。
今天下不幸有事，郡县诸侯未有奋繇直道者也。
齐相雅行躬耕，随牧畜悉，辄分昆弟，更造，不为利惑。
日者北边有兴，上书助官。
往年西河岁恶，率齐人入粟。
今又首奋，虽未战，可谓义形于内矣。
其赐式爵关内侯，黄金四十斤，田十顷，布告天下，使明知之。
元鼎中，征式代石庆为御史大夫。
式既在位，言郡国不便盐铁而船有算，可罢。
上由是不说式。
明年当封禅，式又不习文章，贬秩为太子太傅，以兒宽代之。
式以寿终。
儿宽，千乘人也。
translation: 
The emperor was honest and honest in his divination style, and he became the Tutor of the King of Qi, and then became the Prime Minister.
When Lu Jia rebelled, Bu Shi wrote: I heard that the Lord was ashamed and I died.
The ministers should be loyal to each other, and the most stupid ones should contribute money to help the army. This is the guarantee that powerful countries will not dare to invade.
I am willing to invite my son and the people who practice crossbows in Lin Miao and those who practice boats in Bochang to fight and die in battle to fulfill my integrity.
The emperor thought he was virtuous, so he went to Shao and said: I have heard that repaying kindness with kindness and repaying evil with straightness.
There are many misfortunes in the world today, and the princes in the counties and counties have no upright people who can rise up and repay grievances directly.
Prime Minister Qi behaved elegantly and uprightly, plowing the land himself, grazing with the animals, helping his younger brother with his assets, and starting the business from scratch, without any profit or confusion.
Not long ago, troops were mobilized on the northern border to attack the Xiongnu, and Bu Shi wrote a letter to provide money to help the officials.
In previous years, there was a famine in Xihe, and Bu Shi led his people to send grain to Xihe.
Now he took the initiative to sign up to join the army. Although he did not fight, it can be said that righteousness is seen in his heart.
I should give Divination to the Marquis of Guannei, forty kilograms of gold and ten hectares of fields, and inform the world so that my intentions will be known.
During the Yuanding period, Bu Shidai Genqing was recruited as the imperial censor.
After Bu Shi took office, he said that the prefecture was inconvenient to use salt and iron but the ships had a tax, which could be abolished.
The emperor therefore disliked Bu Shi.
In the second year, it was time for him to be enfeoffed, but Bu Shi was not good at writing and etiquette, so he was demoted to the crown prince and tutor, and replaced Bu Shi with Ai.
The above will end with longevity.
The child is wide, and the people can ride on thousands.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
治《尚书》，事欧阳生。
以郡国选诣博士，受业孔安国。
贫无资用，尝为弟子都养。
时行赁作，带经而锄，休息辄读诵，其精如此。
以射策为掌故，功次，补廷尉文学卒史。
宽为人温良，有廉知自将，善属文，然懦于武，口弗能发明也。
时张汤为廷尉，廷尉府尽用文史法律之吏，而宽以儒生在其间，见谓不习事，不署曹，除为从史，之北地视畜数年。
还至府，上畜簿，会廷尉时有疑奏，已再见却矣，掾史莫知所为。
宽为言其意，掾史因使宽为奏。
奏成，读之皆服，以白廷尉汤。
汤大惊，召宽与语，乃奇其材，以为掾。
上宽所作奏，即时得可。
异日，汤见上。
问曰： 前奏非俗吏所及，谁为之者？
汤言儿宽。
上曰： 吾固闻之久矣。
汤由是乡学，以宽为奏谳掾，以古法义决疑狱，甚重之。
及汤为御史大夫，以宽为掾，举侍御史。
见上，语经学，上说之，从问《尚书》一篇。
擢为中大夫，迁左内史。
宽既治民，劝农业，缓刑罚，理狱讼，卑体下士，务在于得人心；择用仁厚士，推情与下，不求名声，吏民大信爱之。
translation: 
He studied "Shangshu" and studied under Yu Fouwusheng.
As a doctor selected by the county and the country, he studied in Kongshili.
Because he was poor and had no resources, he was supported by his disciples.
He often rented fields and plowed them, brought scriptures with him to work, and recited them during his breaks. His reading was so profound.
Use Ce Wen as anecdotes, and use merits to make up for the history of Tingwei's literary career.
Kuan is a gentle man, honest and wise, capable of self-defense, good at writing, weak in martial arts, and unable to express himself verbally.
At that time, he was appointed as a Tingwei, and the Tingwei government was full of officials of literature, history and law, but Zhe was among them as a Confucian scholar. He showed that he was not familiar with affairs and could not be a low-level official. He was appointed as a Congshi and went to Jidian to guard livestock for several years.
Returning to the mansion, he submitted the livestock register. When the imperial officer encountered a problem, the memorial had been returned many times, and the officials did not know what to do.
Ni Kuan explained to him how to write it, and the officials asked Ni Kuan to write the memorial.
After the performance was completed, everyone who read it was convinced and told the official Zhang Tang.
Zhang Tang was shocked and called Ni Kuan to talk. He appreciated his talent and appointed him as his assistant.
Submit the memorial written by Ni Kuan and get immediate permission.
The next day, Zhang Tang met with the emperor.
Asked: The last memorial was beyond the reach of ordinary officials. Who wrote it?
Zhang Tang said it was Ni Kuan.
The emperor said: I have heard of him a long time ago.
Zhang Tang yearned for learning from then on, and appointed Ni Kuan as an official to report cases. He used the meaning of ancient law to judge difficult cases, which was very popular.
When he went to Zhangtang, he was appointed as the official censor, Ni Kuan was appointed as a subordinate official, and he was promoted to serve as the censor.
Meet the emperor and talk about Confucian classics. The emperor was delighted and asked about another article in "Shang Shu".
He was promoted to Zhongdafu and moved to Zuo Neishi.
After being leniently appointed to the post of civil administration, he encouraged farming, reduced sentences and punishments, and managed prison litigation. He was courteous to his subordinates and devoted himself to winning the hearts of the people. He chose benevolent people, treated his subordinates favorably, and did not seek reputation. The officials and the people were extremely trustworthy and loved.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
宽表奏开六辅渠，定水令以广溉田。
收租税，时裁阔狭，与民相假贷，以故租多不入。
后有军发，左内史以负租课殿，当免。
民闻当免，皆恐失之，大家牛车，小家担负，输租繦属不绝，课更以最。
上由此愈奇宽。
及议欲放古巡狩封禅之事，诸儒对者五十余人，未能有所定。
先是，司马相如病死，有遗书，颂功德，言符瑞，足以封泰山。
上奇其书，以问宽，宽对曰： 陛下躬发圣德，统楫群元，宗祀天地，荐礼百神，精神所乡，征兆必报，天地并应，符瑞昭明。
其封泰山，禅梁父，昭姓考瑞，帝王之盛节也。
translation: 
Ni Kuanbiao opened six auxiliary canals and issued water control regulations to expand irrigated fields.
Rent taxes are collected according to seasonal harvests and are not collected urgently. They are borrowed from the people, so excessive rents are not put into the treasury.
Later, when military service was called for, Zuo Neishi ranked last due to rent debt and was dismissed from office.
When the people heard that he was about to be dismissed from office, they were afraid of losing Ni Kuan. Everyone drove the oxcart and the small family was responsible for the burden. Rent losses continued one after another, and rent and taxes topped the list.
The emperor was even more amazed at Ni Kuan's talent.
When discussing the matter of imitating ancient hunting patrols and fengdang, there were more than fifty scholars who opposed it, but they could not make up their minds.
When Sima Xiangru died of illness, he left a posthumous note praising his merits and virtues, talking about auspicious signs, and suggesting that he should be granted the title of Mount Tai.
The emperor valued his book and asked Ni Kuan. Ni Kuan said: Your Majesty personally practices holy virtue, unites all people, sacrifices to heaven and earth, and presents gifts to hundreds of gods. The signs pointed by the gods will definitely appear. Heaven and earth will respond at the same time, and the auspicious signs will be revealed.
It is a grand festival for emperors to honor Mount Tai, worship Mount Liangfu, and seek auspiciousness for the surname Zhaoming.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
然享荐之义，不著于经，以为封禅告成，合祛于天地神祗，祗戒精专以接神明。总百官之职，各称事宜而为之节文。
唯圣主所由，制定其当，非君臣之所能列。
令将举大事，优游数年，使群臣得人自尽，终莫能成。
唯天子建中和之极，兼总条贯，金声而玉振之，以顺成天庆，垂万世之基。
上然之，乃自制仪，采儒术以文焉。
既成，将用事，拜宽为御史大夫，从东封泰山，还登明堂。
宽上寿曰： 臣闻三代改制，属象相因。
间者圣统废绝，陛下发愤，合指天地，祖立明堂辟雍，宗祀泰一，六律五声，幽赞圣意，神乐四合，各有方象，以丞嘉祀，为万世则，天下幸甚。
将建大元本瑞，登告岱宗，发祉闿门，以候景至。
癸亥宗祀，日宣重光；上元甲子，肃邕永享。
光辉充塞，天文粲然，见象日昭，报降符应。
臣宽奉觞再拜，上千万岁寿。
制曰： 敬举君之觞。
后太史令司马迁等言： 历纪坏废，汉兴未改正朔，宜可正。
上乃诏宽与迁等共定汉《太初历》。
translation: 
However, the meaning of "enjoyment" is not attached to the scriptures, it is to complete the Zen ceremony, to open and close to the gods of heaven and earth, to respectfully welcome the arrival of the gods, to take charge of the duties of all officials, to perform their duties and to determine their institutional etiquette.
Only the Holy Lord can formulate it properly, which cannot be compared with the officials.
A big event will be held today, but it has been discussed for several years without a decision. The ministers have different opinions and nothing has been accomplished.
Only the emperor establishes the right position of neutrality, takes charge of all things, coordinates governance, and vibrates the sound of virtue like the sound of gold and jade, so as to obey the heaven's praise and establish a foundation that will be passed down through the ages.
The emperor agreed with this view and formulated his own etiquette, using Confucian scholarship to modify it.
The etiquette has been completed, and the ceremony of Zen will be held. Ni Kuan will be worshiped as the censor, and he will be followed to seal Mount Tai and ascend to Mingtang.
Ni Kuan Shangshou said: I heard that during the restructuring of the Three Dynasties, political, religious, and legal phenomena were related to each other.
If the Holy Tradition is not abolished, His Majesty becomes angry and points his fingers to the heaven and the earth. He then builds a bright hall to worship Yong and worships the Taiyi Temple. He uses six rhythms and five tones to deeply praise the holy meaning. Divine music and four colors have their own rituals to undertake the most solemn sacrificial ceremony and leave the law of sacrificing to the heaven and earth for future generations. The world is deeply lucky for this.
Through this ceremony, the auspiciousness of Bailin and Baoding in the Taichu year will be determined. We will climb Mount Tai to report the auspiciousness to the gods, and gain blessings and open the doors to wait for the auspicious scene of the winter solstice.
On the occasion of the sacrifice of Guihai, the sun showed the light of the sun; on the day of the winter solstice of Jiazi in the first year of Taichu, the heaven and earth enjoyed awe and peace forever.
The radiance shines everywhere, the astronomical colors in the sky are dazzling, and a scene called Zhaoming appears, and auspicious omens are sent down to repay the implementation of the virtuous government.
Your Majesty Ni Kuan raises your glass and pays homage again, wishing you a long life.
The emperor wrote a book saying: I raise your cup to you.
Later, Taishi ordered Sima Qian and others to say: The calendar is ruined and has not been corrected since the rise of the Han Dynasty. It should be corrected now.
The emperor then ordered Ni Kuan, Sima Qian and others to jointly establish the Han Taichu Calendar.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
语在《律历志》。
初，梁相褚大通《五经》，为博士，时宽为弟子。
及御史大夫缺，征褚大，大自以为得御史大夫。
至洛阳，闻儿宽为之，褚大笑。
及至，与宽议封禅于上前，大不能及，退而服曰： 上诚知人。
宽为御史大夫，以称意任职，故久无有所匡谏于上，官属易之。
居位九岁，以官卒。
赞曰：公孙弘、卜式、儿宽皆以鸿渐之翼困于燕爵，远迹羊豕之间，非遇其时，焉能致此位乎？
是时，汉兴六十余载，海内艾安，府库充实，而四夷未宾，制度多阙。
上方欲用文武，求之如弗及，始以蒲轮迎枚生，见主父而叹息。
群士慕向，异人并出。
卜式拔于刍牧，弘羊擢于栗竖，卫青奋于奴仆，日磾出于降虏，斯亦曩时版筑饭牛之朋已。
translation: 
See "Lü Li Zhi" for details.
At the beginning, Chu Da, the Prime Minister of Liang State, was proficient in the Five Classics and was a doctor. At that time, Ni Kuan was his disciple.
When there was a vacancy for the imperial censor, Chu Da came to take up the post. Chu Da thought he was qualified to be the censor.
When he arrived in Luoyang, he heard that Ni Kuan had taken office, and Chu laughed.
When he arrived at the court and discussed with Ni Kuan in front of the emperor, Chu was not as good as Ni Kuan, so he stood back and said in admiration: Your Majesty really knows people.
Ni Kuan was the imperial censor. Because he was satisfied with his position, he did not give any advice to the emperor for a long time, and his officials despised him.
He reigned for nine years and died in office.
Zan said: Gongsun Hong, Bu Shi and Ni Kuan all used Hongjian's wings to be trapped in the sparrows, traveling far between sheep and pigs. How could they have reached this point without luck?
At that time, the Han Dynasty had been prosperous for more than sixty years. The country was stable and the treasury was abundant. However, the four sides were not convinced and there were many systems lacking.
The emperor had just started a great civil and military undertaking, but he could not find the talents he asked for, so he started to use a pulsar cart to welcome Mei Cheng, and sighed when he saw his master's father dying.
The people were envious and yearned for it, and strange people and talents appeared at the same time.
Bu Shiba was promoted from herding, Hongyang was promoted from the Jia people, Wei Qing was promoted from the slaves, and Jin Yuechan was promoted from the captives. These are the ancient version of building and selling cattle.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
汉之得人，于兹为盛，儒雅则公孙弘、董仲舒、儿宽，笃行则石建、石庆，质直则汲黯、卜式，推贤则韩安国、郑当时，定令则赵禹、张汤，文章则司马迁、相如，滑稽则东方朔、枚皋，应对则严助、朱买臣，历数则唐都、洛下闳，协律则李延年，运筹则桑弘羊，奉使则张骞、苏武，将率则卫青、霍去病，受遗则霍光、金日磾，其余不可胜纪。
是以兴造功业，制度遗文，后世莫及。
孝宣承统，纂修洪业，亦讲论六艺，招选茂异，而萧望之、梁丘贺、夏侯胜、韦玄成、严彭祖，尹更始以儒术进，刘向，王褒以文章显，将相则张安世、赵充国、魏相、丙吉、于定国、杜延年，治民则黄霸、王成、龚遂、郑弘、召信臣、韩延寿、尹翁归、赵广汉、严延年、张敞之属，皆有功迹见述于世。
参其名臣，亦其次也。
translation: 
Mozhi has its talents flourished here, Confucianism and elegance include Gongsun Hong, Dong Zhongshu, and Ni Kuan, loyalty includes Shi Jian and Shi Qing, simplicity includes Ji An and Bu Shi, recommending sages include Han Anguo and Zheng Shi, enacting laws and regulations include Zhao Yu and Zhang Tang, writing articles include Sima Qian and Sima Xiangru, and humor includes Dongfang Shuo and Meigao, Yan Zhu and Zhu Maichen responded to the emperor's questions, Tang Du and Luoxia Hong were listed, Li Yannian coordinated music, Sang Hongyang was responsible for financial planning, Zhang Qian and Su Wu were sent as envoys, Wei Qing and Huo Qubing were leaders, Huo Guang and Jin Yueyan were sent to protect the young master, and the rest are indescribable.
Therefore, he made great achievements and established the system, which was not as good as that of later generations.
Xiao Xuan inherited the great unification, continued to build the magnificent imperial cause, taught the six arts, and recruited outstanding talents. Xiao Wangzhi, Liang Qiuhe, Xia Housheng, Wei Xuancheng, Yan Pengzu, and Yin Gengshi were promoted through Confucianism. Liu Xiang and Wang Bao became famous with their articles, and their generals and ministers were well-prepared. An Shi, Zhao Chongguo, Wei Xiang, Bingji, Yu Dingguo, Du Yannian, and others who governed the people included Huang Ba, Wang Cheng, Gong Sui, Zheng Hong, Zhao Xinchen, Han Yanshou, Yin Wenggui, Zhao Guangmo, Yan Yannian, and Zhang Chang, all of whom have made great achievements in the world.
Examining his famous ministers, he was second only to the talents of Emperor Wu's era.


