Chunk 0: 
original: 
裴子野，字几原，河东闻喜人，晋太子左率康八世孙。
兄黎，弟楷、绰，并有盛名，所谓 四裴 也。
曾祖松之，宋太中大夫。
祖骃，南中郎外兵参军。
父昭明，通直散骑常侍。
子野生而偏孤，为祖母所养，年九岁，祖母亡，泣血哀恸，家人异之。
少好学，善属文。
起家齐武陵王国左常侍，右军江夏王参军，遭父忧去职。
居丧尽礼，每之墓所，哭泣处草为之枯，有白兔驯扰其侧。
天监初，尚书仆射范云嘉其行，将表奏之，会云卒，不果。
乐安任昉有盛名，为后进所慕，游其门者，昉必相荐达。
子野于昉为从中表，独不至，昉亦恨焉。
久之，除右军安成王参军，俄迁兼廷尉正。
时三官通署狱牒，子野尝不在，同僚辄署其名，奏有不允，子野从坐免职。
或劝言诸有司，可得无咎。
子野笑而答曰： 虽惭柳季之道，岂因讼以受服。
自此免黜久之，终无恨意。
二年，吴平侯萧景为南兗州刺史，引为冠军录事，府迁职解。
时中书范缜与子野未遇，闻其行业而善焉。
会迁国子博士，乃上表让之曰： 伏见前冠军府录事参军河东裴子野，年四十，字几原，幼禀至人之行，长厉国士之风。居丧有礼，毁瘠几灭，免忧之外，蔬水不进。
栖迟下位，身贱名微，而性不憛憛，情无汲汲，是以有识嗟推，州闾叹服。
且家传素业，世习儒史，苑囿经籍，游息文艺。
著《宋略》二十卷，弥纶首尾，勒成一代，属辞比事，有足观者。
且章句洽悉，训故可传。脱置之胶庠，以弘奖后进，庶一夔之辩可寻，三豕之疑无谬矣。
translation: 
Pei Ziye, whose courtesy name was Jiyuan, was a native of Wenxi, Hedong, and the eighth-generation grandson of Pei Kang, Prince Zuo of the Jin Dynasty.
His elder brother Pei Li and his younger brothers Pei Kai and Pei Chuo were all famous and were called the Four Peis.
Great-grandfather Pei Songzhi was a Taizhong doctor in the Song Dynasty.
His grandfather Pei Si was a foreign soldier of Nan Zhonglang and joined the army.
My father Zhaoming is a regular attendant of Tongzhi Sanqi.
His mother died after Ziye was born. He was raised by his grandmother. When he was nine years old, his grandmother passed away. He burst into tears and his family was surprised.
When he was young, he was studious and good at writing articles.
He started his career and entered the court as Zuo Changshi of the Wuling Kingdom of Qi. He joined the army as the King of Jiangxia on the right and resigned due to his father's death.
His behavior during the period of mourning was completely in line with etiquette. Every time he went to the tomb, the grass withered for him when he was crying, and a white rabbit crouched beside him.
In the early years of Tianjian, Shangshu Pushe Fan Yun praised his conduct and was about to report it to the emperor. However, due to Fan Yun's death, the matter was not completed.
Ren Fang, a Le'an native, had a good reputation and was admired by his descendants. Anyone who studied under him would be recommended by Ren Fang.
Ziye is Ren Fang's cousin, but he doesn't go to see him, and Ren Fang resents him.
After a long time, in addition to being granted the title of King Ancheng of the Right Army to join the army, he was immediately moved to the post of concurrently serving as Wei Zheng.
At that time, criminal judgment documents were jointly signed by officials from the three parties. Once when Ziye was absent, his colleagues signed his name. The memorial was not approved, and Ziye was implicated and was dismissed.
Someone advised him to explain the facts to Yusi, and he would be clear of fault.
Ziye smiled and replied: "Although I feel ashamed that I don't have Liu Ji's conduct, I can't get a job by litigating."
He has been deposed for a long time since then and has no hatred at all.
In the second year, Xiao Jing, Marquis of Wu Ping, was appointed as the governor of Southern Yanzhou. He was introduced to serve as the champion. After Xiao Jing was transferred, he was dismissed.
At that time, Zhongshu Fan Zhen had no contact with Ziye, but he praised him when he heard that he had good character and industry achievements.
Fan Zhenqian was appointed as the doctor of Guozi, and he immediately recommended Ziye, saying: I heard that Pei Ziye, the former secretary of the Champion Mansion, joined the army in Hedong. He was forty years old and had a few words. He was endowed with superhuman conduct when he was young. When he grew up, he developed excellent moral integrity. He followed etiquette during mourning. Grief was almost life-threatening. After the mourning period was over, he still had no food.
He was in a lower position, with a humble body and a low reputation, but his temperament was not greedy and he did not deceive his spouse. Therefore, knowledgeable people respected him and people in his hometown admired him.
Moreover, his family knowledge has been passed down from generation to generation, he has studied Confucianism and history, read a lot of books, and devoted himself to research and writing in his daily life and actions.
He is the author of twenty volumes of "Song Lue", which runs through the beginning and end, writing the history of a dynasty and writing articles and records, which are worth watching.
Moreover, the analysis of chapters and sentences is accurate and detailed, and the explanations of words can be handed down from generation to generation. If he is allowed to serve in the school, it will be a great reward for future generations, and the debate on misinformation issues such as Yikui can be found.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
伏惟皇家淳耀，多士盈庭，官人迈乎有妫，棫朴越于姬氏，苟片善宜录，无论厚薄，一介可求，不由等级。
臣历观古今人君，钦贤好善，未有圣朝孜孜若是之至也。
敢缘斯义，轻陈愚瞽，乞以臣斯忝，回授子野。
如此，则贤否之宜，各全其所，讯之物议，谁曰不允。
臣与子野虽未尝衔杯，访之邑里，差非虚谬，不胜慺慺微见，冒昧陈闻。
伏愿陛下哀怜悾款，鉴其愚实，干犯之愆，乞垂赦宥。
有司以资历非次，弗为通。
寻除尚书比部郎，仁威记室参军。
出为诸暨令，在县不行鞭罚，民有争者，示之以理，百姓称悦，合境无讼。
初，子野曾祖松之，宋元嘉中受诏续修何承天《宋史》，未及成而卒，子野常欲继成先业。
及齐永明末，沈约所撰《宋书》既行，子野更删撰为《宋略》二十卷。
其叙事评论多善，约见而叹曰： 吾弗逮也。
兰陵萧琛、北地傅昭、汝南周舍咸称重之。
至是，吏部尚书徐勉言之于高祖，以为著作郎，掌国史及起居注。
顷之，兼中书通事舍人，寻除通直正员郎，著作、舍人如故。
又敕掌中书诏诰。
是时西北徼外有白题及滑国，遣使由岷山道入贡。
此二国历代弗宾，莫知所出。
子野曰： 汉颍阴侯斩胡白题将一人。
服虔《注》云： 白题，胡名也。
又汉定远侯击虏，八滑从之，此其后乎。
时人服其博识。
敕仍使撰《方国使图》，广述怀来之盛，自要服至于海表，凡二十国。
子野与沛国刘显、南阳刘之遴、陈郡殷芸、陈留阮孝绪、吴郡顾协、京兆韦棱，皆博极群书，深相赏好，显尤推重之。
时吴平侯萧劢、范阳张缵，每讨论坟籍，咸折中于子野焉。
普通七年，王师北伐，敕子野为喻魏文，受诏立成，高祖以其事体大，召尚书仆射徐勉、太子詹事周舍、鸿胪卿刘之遴、中书侍郎硃异，集寿光殿以观之，时并叹服。
translation: 
The royal family is glorious, the court is full of wise men, the officials have surpassed the era of Youma, and the number of talented people has surpassed the era of Ji. Even small kindnesses are recorded. No matter how big or small, as long as there is a little bit of use, there is no limit to the level.
I have read all the things that the kings of ancient and modern times respected and liked the virtuous and virtuous, but I have never been as diligent as this dynasty.
I dare to follow the truth and show my foolish opinions, and I beg to be given the position I am unworthy of, and to give it back to Ziye.
In this way, the virtuous and the unworthy will each have their own place, and everyone will be asked for their opinions, and everyone will respect and trust them.
Although the minister and Ziye never drank together, they rarely made any falsehoods when visiting people in the city. They expressed their opinions very respectfully and took the liberty to state what they heard.
May Your Majesty have mercy on my sincere heart, recognize my foolish loyalty and offense, and beg for forgiveness.
Some officials believed that Pei Ziye's qualifications did not meet the qualifications for promotion and he was not approved.
Soon he was awarded the title of Minister Bibu Lang, and joined the army in Renwei Jishi.
When he was appointed as a censure and order, whipping was not carried out when he was in the county. If the people had disputes, he explained the truth to them clearly, and the people praised him, and there were no lawsuits in the whole territory.
At first, Pei Ziye's great-grandfather Pei Song was ordered to continue the "History of the Song Dynasty" compiled by He Chengtian during the Song and Yuan Dynasties. He died before completing it. Ziye often wanted to complete his father's work.
By the end of the Yongming Dynasty of Qi Dynasty, the "Book of Song" written by Shen Yue had been published, and Ziye edited and edited the history of the Song Dynasty into twenty volumes of "Song Lue".
His narrative comments were full of sublime points. Shen Yue read them and praised them, saying: I can't keep up with him.
Xiao Chen from Lanling, Fu Gu from Beidi, and Dantu from Dayi all praised him and valued him.
As a result, the Minister of Civil Affairs, Daedian, recommended him to Shandan and appointed him as a writer, responsible for compiling national history and daily life notes.
Immediately, he was concurrently appointed Zhongshu Tongshi Shiren, and soon he was appointed Tongzhi Zhengyuanlang, and his duties as author and Shiren remained as before.
He was also ordered to be in charge of Zhongshu's imperial edicts.
During the period of the Han Dynasty, there were Baiti and Hua Kingdoms outside the Great Wall in the northwest, and they sent envoys from the Minshan Road to pay tribute.
These two countries have never had envoys to meet with each other in the past dynasties, and they do not know the national conditions.
Ziye said: In the Han Dynasty, Marquis Yingyin beheaded Hu Bai, a general named General.
Fu Qian's "Notes" says: The title is blank, and the name is nonsense.
Also in the Han Dynasty, Marquis Dingyuan attacked prisoners, and Ba Hua followed him. It must be his descendants who are here now.
People at that time admired his broad knowledge.
The imperial order still asked him to compile the "Picture of Envoys from Fang Kingdom", which extensively described the grand occasion of attracting people from outside the Great Wall. From remote areas to overseas, there were a total of twenty countries.
Ziye and Liu Xian from Peiguo, Liu Zhilin from Nanyang, Yin Yun from Chenjun, Ruan Xiaoxu from Chenliu, Gu Xie from Wujun, and Wei Leng from Jingzhao were all well-read and deeply appreciated and loved each other. Liu Hao respected Ziye even more.
At that time, Xiao Kan, the Marquis of Wuping, and Zhang Zuan, a native of Fanyang, asked Ziye to judge whenever they discussed ancient books and had any disputes.
In the seventh year of the ordinary year, Wang Shi went north to conquer Wei and ordered Ziye to draft an edict against Wei. Ziye immediately wrote it after receiving the edict. Because of the heavy weight of the matter, Gaozu summoned Xu Mian, Prince Zhanshi Zhoushe, Hongluqing Liu Zhilin, and Zhongshu Minister Zhu Yi to gather in Shouguang Hall to read the article. Everyone present was amazed.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
高祖目子野而言曰： 其形虽弱，其文甚壮。
俄又敕为书喻魏相元叉，其夜受旨，子野谓可待旦方奏，未之为也。及五鼓，敕催令开斋速上，子野徐起操笔，昧爽便就。
既奏，高祖深嘉焉。
自是凡诸符檄，皆令草创。
子野为文典而速，不尚丽靡之词。其制作多法古，与今文体异，当时或有诋诃者，及其末皆翕然重之。
或问其为文速者，子野答云： 人皆成于手，我独成于心，虽有见否之异，其于刊改一也。
俄迁中书侍郎，余如故。
大通元年，转鸿胪卿，寻领步兵校尉。
子野在禁省十余年，静默自守，未尝有所请谒，外家及中表贫乏，所得俸悉分给之。
无宅，借官地二亩，起茅屋数间。
妻子恒苦饥寒，唯以教诲为本，子侄祗畏，若奉严君。
末年深信释氏，持其教戒，终身饭麦食蔬。
中大通二年，卒官，年六十二。
先是子野自克死期，不过庚戌岁。
是年自省移病，谓同官刘之亨曰： 吾其逝矣。
遗命俭约，务在节制。
高祖悼惜，为之流涕。
诏曰： 鸿胪卿、领步兵校尉、知著作郎、兼中书通事舍人裴子野，文史足用，廉白自居，劬劳通事，多历年所。
奄致丧逝，恻怆空怀。
可赠散骑常侍，赙钱五万，布五十匹，即日举哀。
谥曰贞子。
子野少时，《集注丧服》、《续裴氏家传》各二卷，抄合后汉事四十余卷，又敕撰《众僧传》二十卷，《百官九品》二卷，《附益谥法》一卷，《方国使图》一卷，文集二十卷，并行于世。
又欲撰《齐梁春秋》，始草创，未就而卒。
子謇，官至通直郎。
顾协，字正礼，吴郡吴人也。
晋司空和七世孙。
协幼孤，随母养于外氏。
translation: 
Emperor Gaozu looked at Ziye and said: Although his appearance is weak, his writing is heroic.
Immediately, he was ordered to draft an edict to Wei Xiangyuan. After accepting the edict that night, Ziye thought that it could be submitted tomorrow, so he did not start writing. However, at five o'clock, Shaoshu urged him to hand in the article at Kai Zhaimen. Wang Shu wrote calmly, and it was completed at dawn.
After the performance, the stage manager was very complimentary.
Naturally, he was asked to draft all kinds of talismans.
Ziye's articles were elegant and quick to write, and he did not advocate gorgeous words and sentences. His style mostly imitated the ancients, which was different from today's style. Some people slandered him at the time, but they all respected him later.
When asked about the reason why he wrote quickly, Ziye replied: "People's articles are written by hand, and I wrote them with my heart alone. Although there are differences that I can see and cannot see, the modifications are the same."
Soon he was moved to the post of Vice Minister of Zhongshu, and the other posts remained as before.
In the first year of Datong, he was transferred to Hongluqing, and then concurrently served as the infantry captain.
Ziye served in the palace for more than ten years. He was quiet, clean and self-respecting. He never made any demands. Since his mother's family and father's family were poor, he gave all his salary to them.
There was no residence, so we borrowed two acres of official land and built several thatched houses.
His wife and children often suffered from hunger and cold, but he only focused on teaching. His children and nephews respected him as they served their father.
In his later years, he believed deeply in Buddhism, strictly abided by religious rules, and only ate vegetarian food throughout his life.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he died in office at the age of sixty-two.
First, Ziye himself estimated that his death date would not be past the Gengxu year.
In the year of Zao, he reflected on himself and asked to retire. He said to his colleague Liu Zhiheng: I am going to pass away.
We must be frugal and moderate in dispatching and funeral arrangements.
Emperor Gaozu mourned and shed tears for him.
The edict said: Pei Ziye, Qing Honglu, the captain of the infantry academy, the intellectual scholar, and the general secretary of Zhongshu, has sufficient knowledge of literature and history, is honest and self-respecting, and has worked hard for many years.
Sudden loss makes people sad and missed.
He can be given as a posthumous gift to the regular attendants of Sanqi, 50,000 yuan for the funeral, and 50 pieces of cloth, and he will be buried in the near future.
The nickname is Sadako.
When Ziye was young, he compiled two volumes each of "Collection of Mourning Clothes" and "Continued Biography of the Pei Family", and more than forty volumes of excerpts of events in the Later Han Dynasty. Shaoling also compiled twenty volumes of "Biography of Gan Seng", two volumes of "Hundred Officials and Nine Ranks", one volume of "Fu Yi Mi Fa", one volume of "Pictures of Fang Guo Envoy", and twenty volumes of collected works, all of which have been circulated in the world.
He also wanted to compile "Qi Liang Chun Qiu" and had started drafting it, but he died before it could be completed.
His son Pei Jian was promoted to Tongzhilang.
Gu Xie, whose courtesy name is Zhengli, is from Wu County, Wu County.
The seventh-generation grandson of Gu He, Sikong of the Jin Dynasty.
Gu Xie lost his father when he was young and was raised with his mother in his grandfather's house.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
外从祖宋右光禄张永尝携内外孙侄游虎丘山，协年数岁，永抚之曰： 儿欲何戏？
协对曰： 儿正欲枕石漱流。
永叹息曰： 顾氏兴于此子。
既长，好学，以精力称。
外氏诸张多贤达有识鉴，从内弟率尤推重焉。
起家扬州议曹从事史，兼太学博士。
举秀才，尚书令沈约览其策而叹曰： 江左以来，未有此作。
迁安成王国左常侍，兼廷尉正。
太尉临川王闻其名，召掌书记，仍侍西豊侯正德读。
正德为巴西、梓潼郡，协除所部安都令。未至县，遭母忧。
服阕，出补西阳郡丞。
还除北中郎行参军，复兼廷尉正。
久之，出为庐陵郡丞，未拜。会西豊侯正德为吴郡，除中军参军，领郡五官，迁轻车湘东王参军事，兼记室。
普通六年，正德受诏北讨，引为府录事参军，掌书记。
军还，会有诏举士，湘东王表荐协曰： 臣闻贡玉之士，归之润山；论珠之人，出于枯岸。
是以刍荛之言，择于廊庙者也。
臣府兼记室参军吴郡顾协，行称乡闾，学兼文武，服膺道素，雅量邃远，安贫守静，奉公抗直，傍阙知己，志不自营，年方六十，室无妻子。
臣欲言于官人，申其屈滞，协必苦执贞退，立志难夺，可谓东南之遗宝矣。
伏惟陛下未明求衣，思贤如渴，爰发明诏，各举所知。
臣识非许、郭，虽无知人之鉴，若守固无言，惧贻蔽贤之咎。
昔孔愉表韩绩之才，庾亮荐翟汤之德，臣虽未齿二臣，协实无惭两士。
即召拜通直散骑侍郎，兼中书通事舍人。累迁步兵校尉，守鸿胪卿，员外散骑常侍，卿、舍人并如故。
translation: 
My maternal grandfather Zhang Yong, Youguanglu of the Song Dynasty, once took his nephew and grandson to visit Huqiu Mountain. Gu Xie was only a few years old. Zhang Yong stroked him and said, "What do you want to play?"
Gu Xie replied: My son just wants to live in seclusion in the mountains and forests.
Zhang Yong sighed and said: The prosperity of the Gu family depends on this son.
When he grew up, he was studious and was praised for his ability to concentrate.
There are many wise and knowledgeable people in the Zhang family, and his brother-in-law, Zhang Sui, respects him even more.
He began to serve as an official in Yangzhou, engaged in history, and was also a doctor of Taixue.
As a scholar, Minister Shen Yue saw the policy essay he wrote and praised him: "Since the Eastern Jin Dynasty, there has been no such work."
He was moved to the position of Zuo Changshi of the Ancheng Kingdom, and concurrently the court official.
When the Taiwei King of Linchuan heard of his name, he called him to be the secretary, so he served Xifeng Hou Zhengde to study.
Zhengde was appointed governor of Brazil and Zitong counties, and Gu Xie was appointed magistrate of Andu county. Before arriving at the county, his mother died.
When the period of mourning is over, he goes out to support the magistrate of Xiyang County.
When he came back, he was granted the title of Beizhong Langxing to join the army, and then he was appointed as Tingweizheng.
After a long time, he was appointed as the Prime Minister of Luling County, but he did not receive the title. At this time, Xifeng Hou Zhengde was appointed as the Governor of Wu County. He was granted the title of Gu Xiezhongjun to join the army and lead the county's five officials. He was moved to Qingche Xiangshu King to participate in the military affairs and also record the office.
In the sixth year of ordinary times, Zhengde was ordered to fight in the north, and Gu Xie was recommended to join the army and serve as secretary of the government.
When the army was sent back to the north, there was an edict to recommend talented people. The king of Xiangsai recommended Juqianlong and said: "Those who pay tribute to jade are from Runshan; those who discuss pearls are from Ku'an."
Therefore, the crude opinions are for the court to choose.
Gu Xie, a native of Wu County who joined the army in the imperial palace, was praised by the countryside for his conduct, his knowledge in both civil and military affairs, his sincere belief in simple virtues, his magnanimous and far-reaching magnanimity, his quietness in poverty, and his upright service to the public. Although he had a confidant by the emperor's side, he was determined not to plan for himself. He was already sixty years old and had no wife or children.
The minister wanted to recommend him to the officials and explain that he had been resigned to the position for a long time. Gu Xiebi persisted in his indifference to official fame and fortune, and his determination was difficult to change. It can be said that he was a real move in the southeast region.
I thought that Your Majesty would get up before dawn to manage state affairs. He was thirsty for talents, so I created an edict to let everyone know.
The minister's knowledge is not as good as that of Shao Shao and Yi Zuo. Although he does not know how to judge others, if he remains silent, he is afraid of making mistakes that will bury his talents.
In the past, Kong Yu commended Han Xu's talents and recommended Xi Dang's character. Although I could not compare with the two ministers, my title would not make them ashamed.
That is to say, he was summoned and appointed as the minister of Tongzhi Sanqi, and concurrently as Zhongshu Tongshi Shiren. He was moved to the infantry school captain, guarded by Honglu Qing, and became the regular servant of Sanqi outside. The positions of Qing and Shiren remained the same.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
大同八年，卒，时年七十三。
高祖悼惜之，手诏曰： 员外散骑常侍、鸿胪卿、兼中书通事舍人顾协，廉洁自居，白首不衰，久在省闼，内外称善。
奄然殒丧，恻怛之怀，不能已已。
傍无近亲，弥足哀者。
大殓既毕，即送其丧柩还乡，并营冢椁，并皆资给，悉使周办。
可赠散骑常侍，令便举哀。
谥曰温子。
协少清介有志操。
初为廷尉正，冬服单薄，寺卿蔡法度谓人曰： 我愿解身上襦与顾郎，恐顾郎难衣食者。
竟不敢以遗之。
及为舍人，同官者皆润屋，协在省十六载，器服饮食，不改于常。
有门生始来事协，知其廉洁，不敢厚饷，止送钱二千，协发怒，杖二十，因此事者绝于馈遗。
自丁艰忧，遂终身布衣蔬食。
少时将娉舅息女，未成婚而协母亡，免丧后不复娶。
至六十余，此女犹未他适，协义而迎之。
晚虽判合，卒无胤嗣。
协博极群书，于文字及禽兽草木尤称精详。
撰《异姓苑》五卷，《琐语》十卷，并行于世。
徐摛，字士秀，东海郯人也。
祖凭道，宋海陵太守。
父超之，天监初仕至员外散骑常侍。
摛幼而好学，及长，遍览经史。
属文好为新变，不拘旧体。
起家太学博士，迁左卫司马。
会晋安王纲出戍石头，高祖谓周舍曰： 为我求一人，文学俱长兼有行者，欲令与晋安游处。
舍曰： 臣外弟徐摛，形质陋小，若不胜衣，而堪此选。
高祖曰： 必有仲宣之才，亦不简其容貌。
以摛为侍读。
后王出镇江州，仍补云麾府记室参军，又转平西府中记室。
translation: 
He died in the eighth year of his reign at the age of seventy-three.
Emperor Gaozu mourned and remembered him, and wrote a letter from Shao: "I was a member of the imperial family, a regular servant of Sanqi, a minister of Honglu, and a general secretary of Zhongshu. I was honest and self-respected. I never faded even when I was old. I stayed in the palace for a long time and was praised by people both inside and outside for my good deeds."
Passed away suddenly, sadly missed. Can't stop.
He has no close relatives, which makes people even more sad.
After getting dressed and putting the coffin in, he immediately sent the coffin back to his hometown, built a cemetery coffin and paid for it, and tried his best to get everything done.
You can posthumously give him a casual knight as a permanent attendant, so that he can express his condolences.
Mi's nickname is Wen Zi.
When Gu Xie was young, he was upright, upright and ambitious.
When he first took office as Tingweizheng, his clothes were thin in winter. Ji Fadu, the minister of the temple, said to people: I would like to give the short coat I am wearing to Shou Lang. I am afraid that Shou Lang will not be able to accept the food and clothing given by others.
I didn't dare to give him the short coat.
When he took office, his fellow officials all decorated their houses. Gu Xie stayed in the official office for sixteen years, providing food and clothing and did not change the previous situation.
The disciple came to see Gu Xie for something. Knowing that he was honest, he did not dare to give him a generous gift. He only gave him 2,000 yuan. Gu Xie became angry. He was beaten twenty times with a rod. From then on, anyone who came to him for trouble would never give him a gift.
Since the death of his parents, he has been a vegetarian all his life.
When he was young, he was engaged to his uncle's daughter. Before they got married, Gu Xie's mother died and he did not marry her after the mourning period expired.
When she was more than sixty years old, the girl did not remarry. Gu Xie married her because of her affection.
Although he got married in his later years, he had no children.
Gu Xie is well-read and knows more about writing, animals, and plants.
He compiled five volumes of "Yi Xing Yuan" and ten volumes of "Suo Yu", both of which have been circulated in the world.
Xu Zhai, courtesy name Shixiu, was from Tan, Donghai.
My grandfather Pingdao was the prefect of Hailing in the Song Dynasty.
His father surpassed him. In the early years of Tianjian, he often served as an official on horseback.
Xu Gan was young and eager to learn. When he grew up, he read books on classics and history.
The writing is so new and varied, and doesn't stick to the old style.
He started as a doctor of Taixue and moved to Sima Zuowei.
At this time, King Gang of Jin'an went out to garrison the stone. Emperor Gaozu said to Zhou She: I am looking for a person for me who is good at literature and has good character. I want him to associate with Jin'an and accompany him.
Zhou She said: My cousin Xu Go is humble in appearance and may not be able to wear more clothes, but he is capable of doing this job.
Emperor Gaozu said: If Wang Can had talent, there would be no need to pick on his appearance.
Let Xu Zhi serve as an attendant.
Later, when the King of Jin'an left Zhenjiang Prefecture, he appointed Xu Gao as the Record Office of Yunhui Prefecture to join the army, and then he was transferred to the Record Office of Pingxi Prefecture.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
王移镇京口，复随府转为安北中录事参军，带郯令，以母忧去职。
王为丹阳尹，起摛为秣陵令。
普通四年，王出镇襄阳，摛固求随府西上，迁晋安王谘议参军。
大通初，王总戎北伐，以摛兼宁蛮府长史，参赞戎政，教命军书，多自摛出。
王入为皇太子，转家令，兼掌管记，寻带领直。
摛文体既别，春坊尽学之， 宫体 之号，自斯而起。
高祖闻之怒，召摛加让，及见，应对明敏，辞义可观，高祖意释。
因问《五经》大义，次问历代史及百家杂说，末论释教。
摛商较纵横，应答如响，高祖甚加叹异，更被亲狎，宠遇日隆。
领军硃异不说，谓所亲曰： 徐叟出入两宫，渐来逼我，须早为之所。
遂承间白高祖曰： 摛年老，又爱泉石，意在一郡，以自怡养。
高祖谓摛欲之，乃召摛曰： 新安大好山水，任昉等并经为之，卿为我卧治此郡。
中大通三年，遂出为新安太守。
至郡，为治清静，教民礼义，劝课农桑，期月之中，风俗便改。
秩满，还为中庶子，加戎昭将军。
是时临城公纳夫人王氏，即太宗妃之侄女也。
晋宋已来，初婚三日，妇见舅姑，众宾皆列观，引《春秋》义云 丁丑，夫人姜氏至。
戊寅，公使大夫宗妇觌用币 。
戊寅，丁丑之明日，故礼官据此，皆云宜依旧贯。
太宗以问摛，摛曰： 《仪礼》云 质明赞见妇于舅姑 。
《杂记》又云 妇见舅姑，兄弟姊妹皆立于堂下 。政言妇是外宗，未审娴令，所以停坐三朝，观其七德。
舅延外客，姑率内宾，堂下之仪，以备盛礼。
近代妇于舅姑，本有戚属，不相瞻看。
夫人乃妃侄女，有异他姻，觌见之仪，谓应可略。
translation: 
Wang moved to Jingkou, and Xu Gao followed the government and was transferred to Anbei Zhonglushi to join the army and concurrently served as the magistrate of Tan County. He resigned due to the death of his mother.
The king appointed Danyang Yin, and appointed Xu Gao as the magistrate of Moling County.
In ordinary four years, when the king went out to control Xiangyang, Xu Gao insisted on following the king to the west, and moved to Jin'an to consult with the king to join the army.
In the early years of Datong, General Wang led his army in the Northern Expedition, and appointed Xu as the governor of Ningman Prefecture, as well as as counselor of military affairs and military instructions, most of which were written by Xu Xie.
The king was granted the title of crown prince, and Xu Xie was transferred to the family order and also in charge of the records. Soon he led the army.
Xu Zhi's style was different from the tradition, and everyone in the palace imitated him, and the title of "gong style" came from Qian.
When Emperor Gaozu heard about this, he was furious and summoned Xu Gou to scold him. When he saw him, he was very responsive and polite, and Emperor Gaozu's anger disappeared.
So I asked him about the meaning of the Five Classics, then about the history of the past dynasties and the miscellany of hundreds of schools of thought, and finally about Buddhism.
Xu Zhong made many comments and responses, and Gao Zu was even more amazed, and he became more and more close to him, and his favor increased day by day.
Zhu Yi, the leader of the army, was unhappy and said to those close to him: "Xu Sou is coming in and out of the two palaces and is gradually threatening me. He must be transferred elsewhere as soon as possible."
So he took the opportunity to report to Emperor Gaozu: Xu Gan is old and loves mountains and rivers. He wants to go to a county so that he can rest in peace.
Emperor Gaozu thought that Xu Cai wanted to do this, so he summoned Xu Gao and said, "Xin'an has great mountains and rivers. Ren Fang and others have governed this place before. I am doing nothing to govern this county."
After three years of Zhongdatong, he became the prefect of Xin'an.
After arriving in the county, he managed affairs fairly and quietly, taught the people etiquette and righteousness, and encouraged and supervised farmers and mulberry trees. Within a year, the customs changed.
After his term of office expired, he returned to the court and was appointed as the concubine and general Rongzhao.
At this time, Duke Lincheng married his wife Wang, who was the niece of Concubine Taizong.
Since the Jin and Song dynasties, on the third day of the first marriage, the bride pays homage to her parents-in-law, and all the guests watch. This is according to the records of "Spring and Autumn". Ding Chou and his wife Jiang arrived.
On Wuyin day, Duke Zhuang sent the officials and wives to meet each other and used coins.
Wuyin was Ding Chou's second time, so according to this record, the ceremony officials said that the rule should remain the same.
Taizong asked Xu Gao, and Xu Gao said: "Etiquette" records that the bride paid homage to her parents-in-law at dawn.
"Miscellaneous Notes" also said that when the bride paid homage to her parents-in-law, her brothers and sisters were all standing in the hall. It was precisely because the bride was from a foreign sect and had not yet been examined and ordered, so she stopped attending court to observe her seven virtues.
The father-in-law received the foreign guests, the mother-in-law led the female guests, and a grand ceremony was prepared.
In modern times, brides have a kinship relationship with their parents-in-law and do not look at each other.
The wife is the niece of the concubine and has an alien marriage. The etiquette of visiting her should be omitted.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
太宗从其议。
除太子左卫率。
太清三年，侯景攻陷台城，时太宗居永福省，贼众奔入，举兵上殿，侍卫奔散，莫有存者。
摛独嶷然侍立不动，徐谓景曰： 侯公当以礼见，何得如此。
凶威遂折。
侯景乃拜，由是常惮摛。
太宗嗣位，进授左卫将军，固辞不拜。
太宗后被幽闭，摛不获朝谒，因感气疾而卒，年七十八。
长子陵，最知名。
鲍泉，字润岳，东海人也。
父机，湘东王谘议参军。
泉博涉史传，兼有文笔。
少事元帝，早见擢任。
及元帝承制，累迁至信州刺史。
太清三年，元帝命泉征河东王誉于湘州，泉至长沙，作连城以逼之，誉率众攻泉，泉据栅坚守，誉不能克。
泉因其弊出击之，誉大败，尽俘其众，遂围其城，久未能拔。
世祖乃数泉罪，遣平南将军王僧辩代泉为都督。
僧辩至，泉愕然，顾左右曰： 得王竟陵助我经略，贼不足平矣。
僧辩既入，乃背泉而坐，曰： 鲍郎有罪，令旨使我锁卿，卿勿以故意见期。
因出令示泉，锁之床下。
泉曰： 稽缓王师，甘罪是分，但恐后人更思鲍泉之愦愦耳。
乃为启谢淹迟之罪。
世祖寻复其任，令与僧辩等率舟师东逼邵陵王于郢州。
郢州平，元帝以长子方诸为刺史，泉为长史，行府州事。
侯景密遣将宋子仙、任约率精骑袭之。方诸与泉不恤军政，唯蒲酒自乐，贼骑至，百姓奔告，方诸与泉方双陆，不信，曰： 徐文盛大军在东，贼何由得至？
既而传告者众，始令阖门。贼纵火焚之，莫有抗者，贼骑遂入，城乃陷。
执方诸及泉送之景所。
后景攻王僧辩于巴陵，不克，败还，乃杀泉于江夏，沉其尸于黄鹄矶。
translation: 
Taizong listened to his advice.
Later, he was awarded the title of Prince Zuowei.
In the third year of Taiqing, Hou Jing captured Taicheng and sent Taizong to live in Yongfu Province. The thieves rushed in and raised their troops to the palace. The palace guards fled and no one was willing to stay.
Xu Zhai stood alone and solemnly without moving, and slowly said to Hou Jing: "The Duke of Hou is supposed to bow before you, how can you do this?"
Hou Jing was impressed by his fierceness.
Hou Jing then paid homage to him, and from then on he was often afraid of Xu Gao.
Taizong succeeded to the throne and was awarded the title of General Zuowei, but Xu Gao refused to accept the title.
Later, Taizong was imprisoned, and Xu Zhai could not go to court. He died of a gas disease at the age of seventy-eight.
The eldest son, Xu Ling, is the most famous.
Bao Quan, whose courtesy name is Runyue, is from Donghai.
His father, Bao Ji, was consulted by the king of eastern Hunan to join the army.
Bao Quan was well-read in historical and biographical books and was good at writing both rhymed and non-rhymed articles.
He served Emperor Yuan when he was young and was promoted and appointed very early.
After Emperor Yuan inherited the throne, Lei moved to Xinzhou as governor.
In the third year of Taiqing, Emperor Yuan ordered Bao Quan to go to Xiangzhou to conquer Xiao Yu, the king of Hedong. Bao Quan went to Changsha and deployed neighboring cities to force Xiao Yu. Xiao Yu led his troops to attack Bao Quan. Bao Quan held on to the fence, but Xiao Yu could not conquer it.
Bao Quan took advantage of his fatigue to attack again, and Xiao Yu was defeated. Bao Quan captured many of his soldiers and surrounded the city, but could not capture it for a long time.
The emperor Shizu denounced Bao Quan's crimes and sent Pingnan General Wang Sengbian to replace Bao Quan as governor.
When the monk argued with the army, Bao Quan was very surprised and said to the people around him: "With Wang Jingling's help in my strategy, I can pacify the bandits without any effort."
Monk Bian entered the room, sat with his back to Bao Quan, and said, "Bao Lang is guilty, and I have ordered you to be imprisoned. Please don't have any hope based on the feelings of an old friend."
So he showed Bao Quan the edict and locked him under the bed.
Bao Quan said: "I am willing to plead guilty for delaying the attack of the king's army, but I am afraid that people in the future will think more of Quan's confusion."
So Seng Bian petitioned to forgive Bao Quan for his delay in using the army.
Shizu soon resumed his position and ordered him, Seng Bian and others to lead a fleet of boats from Yingzhou in the east to attack King Shaoling.
After pacifying Yingzhou, Emperor Yuan appointed his eldest son Fang Zhu as governor and Bao Quan as chief historian to handle the affairs of the prefecture.
Hou Jingmi sent generals Song Zixian and Ren Yue to attack Yingzhou with fine cavalry. Fang Zhuyu Bao Quan did not consider military affairs, but only gambled and drunkenly enjoyed himself. When thieves and cavalry arrived, the people rushed to report. Fang Zhuyu Bao Quan was playing games and did not believe it. He said: "Xu Wensheng's army is guarding Shumian, how can the thieves come?"
Then many people were informed, so the city gates were closed. The thieves set fire to the city. No one dared to resist. The thieves' cavalry were able to enter the city and the city fell.
The arrests of Fang Zhu and Bao Quan were sent to Hou Jing's office.
Later, Hou Jing attacked Wang Sengbian in Baling, but failed to capture him. He returned after failure, so he killed Bao Quan in Jiangxia and sunk his body in Huanghuji.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
初，泉之为南讨都督也，其友人梦泉得罪于世祖，觉而告之。
后未旬，果见囚执。
顷之，又梦泉著硃衣而行水上，又告泉曰： 君勿忧，寻得免矣。
因说其梦，泉密记之，俄而复见任，皆如其梦。
泉于《仪礼》尤明，撰《新仪》四十卷，行于世。
陈吏部尚书姚察曰：阮孝绪常言，仲尼论四科，始乎德行，终乎文学。
有行者多尚质朴，有文者少蹈规矩，故卫、石靡余论可传，屈、贾无立德之誉。
若夫宪章游、夏，祖述回、骞，体兼文行，于裴几原见之矣。
translation: 
When Bao Quan went to serve as the governor of Nanchao, his friend dreamed that Bao Quan had offended Shizu and told Bao Quan when he woke up.
Within ten days, Bao Quan was indeed arrested.
Soon, he dreamed of Bao Quan walking on the water wearing a red official uniform, and told Bao Quan: "Don't worry, you will be exempted from guilt soon."
He told the dream to Bao Quan. Bao Quan kept a secret record of the matter and was appointed again soon, and he fulfilled what was said in the dream.
Bao Quan knew "Ritual" best and compiled forty volumes of "Xinyi", which was circulated in the world.
Yao Cha, the official secretary of the Chen Dynasty, said: Ruan Xiaoxu often said: Zhongni discusses four subjects, starting with virtue and ending with literature.
Most virtuous people advocate simplicity, while most literary people do not abide by the rules. Therefore, Wei Wan and Shi Fen have nothing to spread, and Qu Yuan and Jia Yi have no reputation for virtue.
Like following Ziyou and Zixia, imitating Yan Hui and Ziqian, virtue and literature coexist, which can be seen in Pei Jiyuan.


