Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 3, 5, 7, 10]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
南越王尉佗者，真定人也，姓赵氏。
秦时已并天下，略定杨越，置桂林、南海、象郡，以谪徙民，与越杂处十三岁。
佗，秦时用为南海龙川令。
至二世时，南海尉任嚣病且死，召龙川令赵佗语曰： 闻陈胜等作乱，秦为无道，天下苦之，项羽、刘季、陈胜、吴广等州郡各共兴军聚众，虎争天下，中国扰乱，未知所安，豪杰畔秦相立。
南海僻远，吾恐盗兵侵地至此，吾欲兴兵绝新道，自备，待诸侯变，会病甚。
且番禺负山险，阻南海，东西数千里，颇有中国人相辅，此亦一州之主也，可以立国。
郡中长吏无足与言者，故召公告之。
translation: 
The king of Nanyue, Wei Tuo, was from Zhending and his surname was Zhao.
The Qin State annexed the six countries, captured and pacified Yang Yue, established Guilin, Nanhai and Xiangjun, and resettled the people who had committed crimes and migrated to these places, and lived together with the Yue people for thirteen years.
Wei Tuo was appointed as the magistrate of Longchuan County in Nanhai County during the Qin Dynasty.
During the second year of Qin Dynasty, Ren Xiao, the captain of Nanhai County, fell ill and was about to die. He summoned Zhao Tuo, the commander of Longchuan, and said to him: I heard that Chen Sheng and others had launched a rebellion, and that the Qin Dynasty was pursuing cruel and unjust policies, and the people of the world were resentful of this. Xiang Yu, Liu Bang, Chen Sheng, Wu Guang, etc. all gathered people in their respective states and counties at the same time, formed armies, and fought for the world like tigers. The Central Plains region was in turmoil, and it was unknown when peace would be restored. Heroes betrayed the Qin Dynasty and opposed each other.
Nanhai County is remote and remote, and I am afraid that the bandit army will invade the land. When I attack here, I want to mobilize the army to cut off the newly built road to the Central Plains. I have taken precautions in advance and wait for the changes in the princes. It happens that I am seriously ill.
Let’s talk about Panyu. There are dangerous mountains behind us to rely on, and there is the sea as a barrier to the south. It is thousands of miles away from east to west. We have some Central Plains people to assist us. We can also be the lord of a state and establish a country.
There is no one among the governors of Nanhai County who is worthy of me to study these things with him, so I have summoned you to tell you these things.

summary:
summary line 0: The king of Nanyue, Wei Tuo (Zhao Tuo), was from Zhending. During the Qin dynasty, after conquering the six states, the Qin annexed Yang Yue, establishing Guilin, Nanhai, and Xiangjun, and resettled criminals there to live with the Yue people for thirteen years. Zhao Tuo served as the magistrate of Longchuan County in Nanhai. In the second year of the Qin dynasty, Ren Xiao, the captain of Nanhai, fell ill. He summoned Zhao Tuo and explained that with Chen Sheng’s rebellion and the Qin’s cruel policies, the Central Plains were in chaos. He noted that Nanhai was remote and could be defended by mountains and sea, and suggested Zhao Tuo could establish a state. Ren Xiao appointed Zhao Tuo as acting captain. After Ren Xiao’s death, Zhao Tuo cut off roads, gathered troops, killed Qin-appointed officials, and replaced them with his cronies. Following the Qin’s fall, he annexed Guilin and Xiangjun and declared himself King Wu of Nanyue.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
即被佗书，行南海尉事。
嚣死，佗即移檄告横浦、阳山、湟谿关曰： 盗兵且至，急绝道聚兵自守！
因稍以法诛秦所置长吏，以其党为假守。
秦已破灭，佗即击并桂林、象郡，自立为南越武王。
高帝已定天下，为中国劳苦，故释佗弗诛。
汉十一年，遣陆贾因立佗为南越王，与剖符通使，和集百越，毋为南边患害，与长沙接境。
高后时，有司请禁南越关市铁器。
佗曰： 高帝立我，通使物，今高后听谗臣，别异蛮夷，隔绝器物，此必长沙王计也，欲倚中国，击灭南越而并王之，自为功也。
於是佗乃自尊号为南越武帝，发兵攻长沙边邑，败数县而去焉。
高后遣将军隆虑侯灶往击之。
translation: 
Ren Xiao immediately issued an appointment document to Zhao Tuo, asking him to act on behalf of Nanhai County.
After Ren Xiao died, Zhao Tuo sent a message to Hengpu, Yangshan, and Huangxiguan, saying: The bandit army is coming, so we must quickly cut off the road, gather the army, and defend ourselves.
Zhao Tuo took this opportunity to gradually use the law to kill the officials installed by the Qin Dynasty, and use his cronies as acting governors.
After the Qin Dynasty was destroyed, Zhao Tuo attacked and annexed Guilin and Xiangjun, and established himself as King Wu of South Vietnam.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty had already pacified the world. Because the people in the Central Plains were tired and miserable, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty spared Zhao Tuo and did not kill him.
In the eleventh year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, he sent Lu Jia to South Vietnam and ordered Zhao Tuo to inherit his title of King of South Vietnam, make an agreement with him, exchange envoys, and let him coordinate Baiyue so that they can live in harmony and not become a scourge to the south of the Han Dynasty. South Vietnam borders Changsha to the north.
During the post-Gao period, officials from relevant departments requested that South Vietnam be prohibited from purchasing ironware in border markets.
Zhao Tuo said: Emperor Gao made me the king of South Vietnam, and the two sides exchanged envoys and supplies. Now Gao Hou listens to the opinions of the slanderers, treats the barbarians as aliens, and cuts off the source of the artifacts we need. This must be the idea of ​​King Changsha. He wants to follow the Han Dynasty in the Central Plains, eliminate South Vietnam, double as the king of South Vietnam, and establish his own merits.
So Zhao Tuo took advantage of the title and called himself Emperor Wu of Nanyue. He sent troops to attack the border cities of Changsha and defeated several counties before leaving.
Empress Gao sent General Longlu Hou Zhou Zao to attack Zhao Tuo.

summary:
summary line 1: Emperor Gaozu of Han, due to the people’s exhaustion, spared Zhao Tuo. In the eleventh year of Gaozu, he sent Lu Jia to confirm Zhao Tuo as King of Nanyue, with an agreement for envoys and harmony with Baiyue. During Empress Lü’s reign, officials banned ironware trade with Nanyue. Zhao Tuo suspected King Changsha’s influence, declared himself Emperor Wu of Nanyue, and attacked Changsha’s border cities. Empress Lü sent General Zhou Zao to attack, but heat and illness halted the army. After her death, the Han stopped. Zhao Tuo expanded his territory to over 10,000 miles, bribing Minyue, Xiou, and Luoyue, and acted as an emperor.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
陆贾至南越，王甚恐，为书谢，称曰： 蛮夷大长老夫臣佗，前日高后隔异南越，窃疑长沙王谗臣，又遥闻高后尽诛佗宗族，掘烧先人冢，以故自弃，犯长沙边境。
且南方卑湿，蛮夷中间，其东闽越千人众号称王，其西瓯骆裸国亦称王。
老臣妄窃帝号，聊以自娱，岂敢以闻天王哉！
乃顿首谢，原长为籓臣，奉贡职。
於是乃下令国中曰： 吾闻两雄不俱立，两贤不并世。
皇帝，贤天子也。自今以後，去帝制黄屋左纛。
陆贾还报，孝文帝大说。
遂至孝景时，称臣，使人朝请。
然南越其居国窃如故号名，其使天子，称王朝命如诸侯。
至建元四年卒。
佗孙胡为南越王。
translation: 
When Lu Jia arrived in South Vietnam, the South Vietnamese king Zhao was particularly frightened and wrote an apology to the emperor, saying: The barbarian chief husband Chen Tuo used to isolate and discriminate against South Vietnam. I secretly suspected that the king of Changsha was a slanderous minister. I also heard in this distant place that the high queen killed Zhao Tuo's clan and dug and burned the graves of his ancestors. Therefore, he abandoned himself and invaded the border area of ​​​​Changsha.
Moreover, in the low and humid land in the south, among the barbarians, Minyue in the east only had thousands of people, but they called their ruler king; in the west, naked countries like Xiou and Luoyue also had to call themselves kings.
So I arrogantly stole the emperor's title to comfort myself. How dare I report this to the emperor!
Zhao Tuo kowtowed deeply and apologized, saying that he would remain a vassal minister of the Han Dynasty for a long time and abide by his duty to pay tribute to the emperor.
So Zhao Tuo issued an order to the whole country, saying: I heard that two heroes cannot coexist, and two sages cannot live together in the same world.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty was a wise emperor. From now on, I will get rid of the imperial system and will no longer ride in Huangwu Zuohu's car.
Lu Jia returned to Beijing to report the matter, and Emperor Wen of Han was very happy.
Continuing to the era of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, Zhao Tuo professed his vassalage to the Han Dynasty and sent people to Chang'an to meet the emperor in the spring and autumn.
However, in South Vietnam, Zhao Tuo always stole the title of emperor. He only became king when he sent envoys to meet the emperor, and accepted the emperor's orders just like the princes.
In the fourth year of Jianyuan, Zhao Tuo died.
Zhao Tuo's grandson Zhao Hu became the king of South Vietnam.

summary:
summary line 2: In the first year of Emperor Wen of Han, the emperor honored Zhao Tuo’s parents’ tomb and his cousins. He sent Lu Jia to rebuke Zhao Tuo for claiming the emperor title. Zhao Tuo apologized, citing fear of King Changsha and the queen’s actions, and claimed he used the title for self-comfort among barbarians. He pledged vassalage to Han, removed imperial trappings, and continued as a vassal. During Emperor Jing’s era, Zhao Tuo outwardly submitted but secretly kept the emperor title. He died in the fourth year of Jianyuan, succeeded by his grandson Zhao Hu.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
於是胡称病，竟不入见。
後十馀岁，胡实病甚，太子婴齐请归。
胡薨，谥为文王。
婴齐代立，即藏其先武帝玺。
婴齐其入宿卫在长安时，取邯郸樛氏女，生子兴。
及即位，上书请立樛氏女为后，兴为嗣。
汉数使使者风谕婴齐，婴齐尚乐擅杀生自恣，惧入见要用汉法，比内诸侯，固称病，遂不入见。遣子次公入宿卫。
婴齐薨，谥为明王。
太子兴代立，其母为太后。
太后自未为婴齐姬时，尝与霸陵人安国少季通。
及婴齐薨後，元鼎四年，汉使安国少季往谕王、王太后以入朝，比内诸侯；令辩士谏大夫终军等宣其辞，勇士魏臣等辅其缺，卫尉路博德将兵屯桂阳，待使者。
王年少，太后中国人也，尝与安国少季通，其使复私焉。
translation: 
So Zhao Hu used illness as an excuse and did not go to see the Emperor of Han in the end.
More than ten years later, Zhao Huzhen became seriously ill, and Prince Yingqi asked to return to the country.
When Zhao Hu died, he was given the posthumous title of King Wen.
After Ying Qi Dai was established as the King of Nanyue, he hid the seal of Emperor Wu of his ancestor.
When Yingqi went to Chang'an to serve as a guard, he took a daughter from Handan's family as his wife and gave birth to a son named Zhao Xing.
When he ascended the throne and became king, he wrote to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty, requesting that his wife Xi be made the queen and Zhao Xing be the prince.
The Han Dynasty repeatedly sent envoys to tactfully advise Ying Qi to go to the emperor. Ying Qi liked to kill people arbitrarily and was afraid that if he went to the capital to worship the emperor, he would be forced to follow the laws of the mainland and implement the laws of the Han Dynasty. Therefore, he used illness as an excuse to not go to the emperor and only sent his son Cigong to the capital to serve as a guard.
When Yingqi died, he was given the posthumous title of King Ming.
Prince Zhao Xingdai was established as the King of Nanyue, and his mother became the Queen Mother.
When the Queen Mother was not married to Yingqi as her concubine, she had committed adultery with Anguo Shaoji, a native of Baling.
After Yingqi's death, in the fourth year of Yuanding, the Han Dynasty sent Anguo Shaoji to persuade the King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother to go to Beijing to worship the emperor like the princes in the interior. He ordered the debaters to admonish the official Zhongjun and others to publicize this idea, and asked the warrior Wei Chen and others to assist him where they were insufficient. Guard Lu Bode led his troops to garrison in Guiyang, waiting for the envoy.
The King of Nanyue is young, and the Queen Mother is from the Central Plains. She once committed adultery with Anguo Shaoji. This time Anguo Shaoji came to serve as an envoy and committed adultery with her again.

summary:
summary line 3: Zhao Hu faced an attack from Minyue’s King Ying. He requested Han intervention, and Emperor Wu sent troops, leading to Ying’s death. Zhao Hu thanked the emperor but, advised by ministers, avoided visiting the capital, fearing captivity. He died as King Wen. His son Yingqi, who had married a woman from Handan and fathered Zhao Xing, became king. Yingqi hid his grandfather’s emperor seal, refused to visit the capital due to fear of Han laws, and died as King Ming. Zhao Xing succeeded, with his mother as queen mother.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
使者皆注意嘉，势未能诛。
王、王太后亦恐嘉等先事发，乃置酒，介汉使者权，谋诛嘉等。
使者皆东乡，太后南乡，王北乡，相嘉、大臣皆西乡，侍坐饮。
嘉弟为将，将卒居宫外。
酒行，太后谓嘉曰： 南越内属，国之利也，而相君苦不便者，何也？
以激怒使者。
使者狐疑相杖，遂莫敢发。
嘉见耳目非是，即起而出。
太后怒，欲鏦嘉以矛，王止太后。
嘉遂出，分其弟兵就舍，称病，不肯见王及使者。
乃阴与大臣作乱。
王素无意诛嘉，嘉知之，以故数月不发。
太后有淫行，国人不附，欲独诛嘉等，力又不能。
天子闻嘉不听王，王、王太后弱孤不能制，使者怯无决。
translation: 
The envoys paid great attention to Lu Jia's words and deeds, but due to the situation, they did not execute Lu Jia.
The King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother were also afraid that Lu Jia would be the first to attack, so they arranged a banquet and planned to use the power of the Han Dynasty envoys to kill Lu Jia and others.
At the banquet, the envoys all faced east, the Queen Mother faced south, the king faced north, and Prime Minister Lu Jia and the ministers all faced west, sitting and drinking with them.
Lu Jia's younger brother was a general and led his troops to wait outside the palace.
While drinking, the Queen Mother said to Lu Jia: It is in the interests of the country that South Vietnam belongs to the Han Dynasty, but Prime Minister, you complain that this is not good. Why?
The Queen Mother wanted to anger the Han Dynasty envoy.
The envoy hesitated and did not dare to kill Lu Jia.
Lu Jia saw that the people around him were not his cronies, so he stood up and walked out.
The queen mother got angry and wanted to hit Lu Jia with a spear, but the king stopped her.
Lu Jia went out, divided some of his brother's soldiers, and arranged them around his residence. He refused to meet the king and the envoy because of his illness.
Lu Jia secretly prepared to launch a rebellion with his ministers.
The King of Nanyue had no intention of killing Lu Jia. Lu Jia knew this, so he did not launch a rebellion for several months.
The Queen Mother had engaged in promiscuous behavior and no one in the South Vietnam country would join her. She wanted to kill Lu Jia alone, but she was unable to do it.
The Emperor heard that Lu Jia disobeyed the King of Nanyue. The King of Nanyue and the Queen Mother were weak and could not control Lu Jia, and the envoys were timid and incapable of decision-making.

summary:
summary line 4: The queen mother, who had previously committed adultery with Anguo Shaoji, sought to submit to Han. Emperor Wu sent Anguo Shaoji to persuade them. The young king and queen mother agreed to become vassals, but Prime Minister Lu Jia, who had served three kings and held great influence, opposed. He feared losing power and plotted rebellion. At a banquet, the queen mother tried to provoke the Han envoy to kill Lu Jia, but the envoy hesitated. Lu Jia left, gathered troops, and refused to meet the king. The queen mother’s efforts failed.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
吕嘉、建德已夜与其属数百人亡入海，以船西去。
伏波又因问所得降者贵人，以知吕嘉所之，遣人追之。
以其故校尉司马苏弘得建德，封为海常侯；越郎都稽得嘉，封为临蔡侯。
苍梧王赵光者，越王同姓，闻汉兵至，及越揭阳令定自定属汉；越桂林监居翁谕瓯骆属汉：皆得为侯。
戈船、下厉将军兵及驰义侯所发夜郎兵未下，南越已平矣。
遂为九郡。
伏波将军益封。楼船将军兵以陷坚为将梁侯。
自尉佗初王後，五世九十三岁而国亡焉。
太史公曰：尉佗之王，本由任嚣。
遭汉初定，列为诸侯。
隆虑离湿疫，佗得以益骄。
瓯骆相攻，南越动摇。
汉兵临境，婴齐入朝。
其後亡国，徵自樛女；吕嘉小忠，令佗无後。
translation: 
Lu Jia and Zhao Jiande had fled into the sea with hundreds of their subordinates at night and took a boat to the west.
General Fubo took the opportunity to ask the South Vietnamese nobles who had surrendered, and then he knew Lu Jia's whereabouts and sent people to hunt him down.
Su Hong, a former school captain who is now an officer of General Fubo, captured Zhao Jiande and was named Chang Haihou; Nanyue native Lang Guan Duji captured Lu Jia and was named Lincai Marquis.
Zhao Guang, King of Cangwu, had the same surname as the King of Nanyue. Hearing that the Han Dynasty troops had arrived, the Jieyang County magistrate named Ding of Nanyue decided to join the Han Dynasty. Weng, the governor of Guilin County in Nanyue, informed Ou Luo to surrender to the Han Dynasty. They were all sealed.
Before the troops of General Ge Chuan and General Xia Li, as well as the Yelang army so called mobilized by Marquis Chiyi, had arrived, South Vietnam had been pacified.
So the Han Dynasty established nine counties here.
General Fubo increased the number of fiefs, and General Louchuan's army broke through the enemy's strong defense, so he was granted the title of General Lianghou.
After Zhao Tuo first became king, the Kingdom of Nanyue was destroyed for five generations, a total of ninety-three years.
Tai Shigong said: Wei Tuo became the king of Nanyue because of Ren Xiao's promotion and persuasion.
Just as the Han Dynasty was initially stabilized, he was made a prince.
Longluhou led his troops to attack South Vietnam. They encountered a hot and humid climate. Many of the soldiers were infected with diseases and were unable to march, which made Zhao Tuo even more proud.
Due to mutual attacks with Ou Luo, South Vietnam's national power was shaken.
The Han Dynasty's army pressed on the territory, and the South Vietnamese prince Yingqi had to go to Chang'an to serve as a guard.
Later, South Vietnam fell, and the sign was that Yingqi married a daughter of the Hu family. Lu Jia's small loyalty caused Zhao Tuo to cut off the heir to the throne.

summary:
summary line 5: The emperor sent Han Qianqiu with 2,000 troops to South Vietnam. Lu Jia rebelled, killed the king, queen mother, and Han envoys, and installed Zhao Jiande as king. Han Qianqiu’s army was ambushed and destroyed. The emperor then launched a large-scale attack in the fifth year of Yuanding, with generals Lu Bode, Yang Pu, and others leading forces from multiple directions. In the sixth year, Yang Pu’s troops captured Panyu, and Lu Bode’s forces accepted surrenders. Lu Jia and Zhao Jiande fled by sea but were captured. South Vietnam was pacified, and the Han established nine counties. The kingdom lasted five generations for ninety-three years. The historian notes that Zhao Tuo’s rise was due to Ren Xiao, and the kingdom’s fall stemmed from internal conflicts and Lu Jia’s actions.

