Summary line 0
Span: 0-22 (score=0.6265)

original:
陈庆之兰钦陈庆之，字子云，义兴国山人也。
幼而随从高祖。高祖性好棋，每从夜达旦不辍，等辈皆倦寐，惟庆之不寝，闻呼即至，甚见亲赏。
从高祖东下平建鄴，稍为主书，散财聚士，常思效用。
除奉朝请。
普通中，魏徐州刺史元法僧于彭城求入内附，以庆之为武威将军，与胡龙牙、成景俊率诸军应接。
还，除宣猛将军、文德主帅，仍率军二千，送豫章王综入镇徐州。
魏遣安豊王元延明、临淮王元彧率众二万来拒，屯据陟□。
延明先遣其别将丘大千筑垒浔梁，观兵近境。
庆之进薄其垒，一鼓便溃。
后豫章王弃军奔魏，众皆溃散，诸将莫能制止。庆之乃斩关夜退，军士得全。
普通七年，安西将军元树出征寿春，除庆之假节、总知军事。
魏豫州刺史李宪遣其子长钧别筑两城相拒。庆之攻之，宪力屈遂降，庆之入据其城。
转东宫直阁，赐爵关中侯。
大通元年，隶领军曹仲宗伐涡阳。
魏遣征南将军常山王元昭等率马步十五万来援，前军至驼涧，去涡阳四十里。
庆之欲逆战，韦放以贼之前锋必是轻锐，与战若捷，不足为功，如其不利，沮我军势，兵法所谓以逸待劳，不如勿击。
庆之曰： 魏人远来，皆已疲倦，去我既远，必不见疑，及其未集，须挫其气，出其不意，必无不败之理。
且闻虏所据营，林木甚盛，必不夜出。
诸君若疑惑，庆之请独取之。
于是与麾下二百骑奔击，破其前军，魏人震恐。
庆之乃还与诸将连营而进，据涡阳城，与魏军相持。
自春至冬，数十百战，师老气衰，魏之援兵复欲筑垒于军后，仲宗等恐腹背受敌，谋欲退师。
庆之杖节军门曰： 共来至此，涉历一岁，糜费粮仗，其数极多。诸军并无斗心，皆谋退缩，岂是欲立功名，直聚为抄暴耳。

translation:
Chen Qingzhi, whose courtesy name is Ziyun, is from Yixingguoshan. He followed Gaozu since he was young.
Emperor Gaozu loved to play chess. Every time he played chess, he would play chess all the time without stopping. All his peers were tired and went to bed. Only Qingzhi did not sleep, and he would come as soon as he was called. He was highly appreciated by his close followers.
Following Emperor Gaozu, he put down Jianye and later served as chief secretary. He dispersed money to recruit soldiers, and Chang Si played a role.
Granted the imperial invitation.
In the ordinary years, Yuan Faseng, the governor of Xuzhou in Wei Dynasty, requested to be attached to Pengcheng. He was appointed as a powerful general in order to celebrate him, and he, together with Hu Longya and Cheng Jingjun, led other armies to pick him up.
After returning to the army, he was appointed General Xuanmeng and Commander Wende. He still led an army of two thousand and sent Xiao Zong, the king of Yuzhang, to guard Xuzhou.
Wei sent Prince Yanming of Anfeng and Prince Yuan of Linhuai with 20,000 troops to resist and garrisoned at Zhikou.
Yanming first sent another general, Qiu Dagan, to build a fort in Xunliang and show his strength at the border.
Qingzhi advanced on his earthen fortress and was defeated in a single battle.
Later, King Yuzhang abandoned his army and fled to Wei. Everyone was routed and the generals could not stop him, so Qingzhi cut off the bolts and breached the city. He retreated at night and the sergeants were saved.
In the seventh year of the Ordinary Year, General Yuan Shu of Anxi went to Shouchun to confer the holiday of celebration and general military affairs.
Li Xian, the governor of Yuzhou in Wei, sent his son Chang Gou to build two more forts to resist him. Qingzhi attacked him, but Li Xian was exhausted and surrendered, and Qingzhi entered and occupied the city.
He was transferred to Donggong Zhihe and given the title of Marquis of Guanzhong.
In the first year of Datong, the subordinate leader Xuan lived in the fortress and conquered Yan.
Gong sent General Changshan Wang Yuanzhao and others to come to the rescue with 150,000 cavalry and infantry. The front army reached Tuojian, forty miles away from Guoyang.
Qingzhi wanted to fight, but Tong Zhen believed that the thieves' vanguard must be light and agile. If we win the battle, it will not be enough. If the battle is unfavorable, our military strength will be destroyed. The art of war says that we should wait for the work in leisure, rather than not attacking.
Qingzhi said: The Wei people came from afar and are already tired. Since they are far away from our army, they will not be suspected. Before they gather, we must frustrate their energy and take them by surprise. There must be no reason to be invincible.
I also heard that the enemy's camp was heavily wooded and they would not go out at night.
If you have any doubts, please Qingzhi and attack him alone.
So Yu's 200 cavalrymen rushed towards the Wei army and defeated their front army. The Wei people were horrified.
Qingzhi then returned the army and the generals to attack together, occupy Woyang City, and confront the Wei army.
From spring to winter, hundreds of battles were fought. The army was exhausted and morale gradually declined. Wei's reinforcements wanted to build forts behind Qing's army. Zhongzong and others were afraid of being attacked from both sides, so they planned to retreat.
Qingzhi held a banner in front of the army gate and said: "We have been here for a year and have wasted a lot of food and weapons. The armies have no fighting spirit and are planning to retreat. They are not trying to gain fame. They are simply joining the camp for robbery."

summary:
Chen Qingzhi, courtesy name Ziyun, from Yixingguoshan, served Emperor Gaozu from youth. Gaozu loved chess, playing tirelessly; while others tired and slept, Qingzhi remained alert and responsive, earning high regard. He followed Gaozu to pacify Jianye, served as chief secretary, and recruited soldiers with dispersed funds. He was granted an imperial invitation. In the ordinary years, Wei's Xuzhou governor Yuan Faseng sought attachment to Pengcheng. Qingzhi, as a powerful general, led Hu Longya and Cheng Jingjun to escort him. After returning, he became General Xuanmeng and Commander Wende, leading 2,000 troops to guard Xuzhou with Xiao Zong. Wei sent Prince Yanming of Anfeng and Prince Yuan of Linhuai with 20,000 troops to resist at Zhikou. Yanming's general Qiu Dagan built a fort at Xunliang; Qingzhi defeated him in a single battle. Later, King Yuzhang fled to Wei, causing a rout. Qingzhi cut bolts, breached the city, and retreated at night, saving his sergeants.

================================================================================

Summary line 1
Span: 3-30 (score=0.6994)

original:
除奉朝请。
普通中，魏徐州刺史元法僧于彭城求入内附，以庆之为武威将军，与胡龙牙、成景俊率诸军应接。
还，除宣猛将军、文德主帅，仍率军二千，送豫章王综入镇徐州。
魏遣安豊王元延明、临淮王元彧率众二万来拒，屯据陟□。
延明先遣其别将丘大千筑垒浔梁，观兵近境。
庆之进薄其垒，一鼓便溃。
后豫章王弃军奔魏，众皆溃散，诸将莫能制止。庆之乃斩关夜退，军士得全。
普通七年，安西将军元树出征寿春，除庆之假节、总知军事。
魏豫州刺史李宪遣其子长钧别筑两城相拒。庆之攻之，宪力屈遂降，庆之入据其城。
转东宫直阁，赐爵关中侯。
大通元年，隶领军曹仲宗伐涡阳。
魏遣征南将军常山王元昭等率马步十五万来援，前军至驼涧，去涡阳四十里。
庆之欲逆战，韦放以贼之前锋必是轻锐，与战若捷，不足为功，如其不利，沮我军势，兵法所谓以逸待劳，不如勿击。
庆之曰： 魏人远来，皆已疲倦，去我既远，必不见疑，及其未集，须挫其气，出其不意，必无不败之理。
且闻虏所据营，林木甚盛，必不夜出。
诸君若疑惑，庆之请独取之。
于是与麾下二百骑奔击，破其前军，魏人震恐。
庆之乃还与诸将连营而进，据涡阳城，与魏军相持。
自春至冬，数十百战，师老气衰，魏之援兵复欲筑垒于军后，仲宗等恐腹背受敌，谋欲退师。
庆之杖节军门曰： 共来至此，涉历一岁，糜费粮仗，其数极多。诸军并无斗心，皆谋退缩，岂是欲立功名，直聚为抄暴耳。
吾闻置兵死地，乃可求生，须虏大合，然后与战。
审欲班师，庆之别有密敕，今日犯者，便依明诏。
仲宗壮其计，乃从之。
魏人掎角作十三城，庆之衔枚夜出，陷其四垒，涡阳城主王纬乞降。
所余九城，兵甲犹盛，乃陈其俘馘，鼓噪而攻之，遂大奔溃，斩获略尽，涡水咽流，降城中男女三万余口。
诏以涡阳之地置西徐州。
众军乘胜前顿城父。
高祖嘉焉，赐庆之手诏曰： 本非将种，又非豪家，觖望风云，以至于此。

translation:
Granted the imperial invitation.
In the ordinary years, Yuan Faseng, the governor of Xuzhou in Wei Dynasty, requested to be attached to Pengcheng. He was appointed as a powerful general in order to celebrate him, and he, together with Hu Longya and Cheng Jingjun, led other armies to pick him up.
After returning to the army, he was appointed General Xuanmeng and Commander Wende. He still led an army of two thousand and sent Xiao Zong, the king of Yuzhang, to guard Xuzhou.
Wei sent Prince Yanming of Anfeng and Prince Yuan of Linhuai with 20,000 troops to resist and garrisoned at Zhikou.
Yanming first sent another general, Qiu Dagan, to build a fort in Xunliang and show his strength at the border.
Qingzhi advanced on his earthen fortress and was defeated in a single battle.
Later, King Yuzhang abandoned his army and fled to Wei. Everyone was routed and the generals could not stop him, so Qingzhi cut off the bolts and breached the city. He retreated at night and the sergeants were saved.
In the seventh year of the Ordinary Year, General Yuan Shu of Anxi went to Shouchun to confer the holiday of celebration and general military affairs.
Li Xian, the governor of Yuzhou in Wei, sent his son Chang Gou to build two more forts to resist him. Qingzhi attacked him, but Li Xian was exhausted and surrendered, and Qingzhi entered and occupied the city.
He was transferred to Donggong Zhihe and given the title of Marquis of Guanzhong.
In the first year of Datong, the subordinate leader Xuan lived in the fortress and conquered Yan.
Gong sent General Changshan Wang Yuanzhao and others to come to the rescue with 150,000 cavalry and infantry. The front army reached Tuojian, forty miles away from Guoyang.
Qingzhi wanted to fight, but Tong Zhen believed that the thieves' vanguard must be light and agile. If we win the battle, it will not be enough. If the battle is unfavorable, our military strength will be destroyed. The art of war says that we should wait for the work in leisure, rather than not attacking.
Qingzhi said: The Wei people came from afar and are already tired. Since they are far away from our army, they will not be suspected. Before they gather, we must frustrate their energy and take them by surprise. There must be no reason to be invincible.
I also heard that the enemy's camp was heavily wooded and they would not go out at night.
If you have any doubts, please Qingzhi and attack him alone.
So Yu's 200 cavalrymen rushed towards the Wei army and defeated their front army. The Wei people were horrified.
Qingzhi then returned the army and the generals to attack together, occupy Woyang City, and confront the Wei army.
From spring to winter, hundreds of battles were fought. The army was exhausted and morale gradually declined. Wei's reinforcements wanted to build forts behind Qing's army. Zhongzong and others were afraid of being attacked from both sides, so they planned to retreat.
Qingzhi held a banner in front of the army gate and said: "We have been here for a year and have wasted a lot of food and weapons. The armies have no fighting spirit and are planning to retreat. They are not trying to gain fame. They are simply joining the camp for robbery."
I heard that if a soldier is put to death, he can be left to fight for his life. The enemy must gather in a large gathering and then fight with him.
If you really want to be a teacher, you will have a secret order to celebrate. If you violate it now, you will act according to Ming Shao.
Zhongzong admired his strategy and obeyed him.
In order to contain the troops, the Wei people built thirteen fortifications. Qingzhi held the coins horizontally in his mouth. He went out of the city at night and captured four of the enemy's fortifications. Wang Wei, the lord of Woyang City, begged to surrender.
The remaining nine city forts, whose military strength was still strong, displayed the left ears of the captured and slain enemies, beat drums and shouted to attack the enemies. The enemy then collapsed, captured a small amount of them, the vortex was filled, and more than 30,000 men and women in the city were captured.
Shao established West Xuzhou on the land of Guoyang.
Taking advantage of the victory, all the troops moved forward and stationed themselves in Chengfu.
Emperor Gaozu praised him and gave Qingzhi a Shao Shu written by him, saying: He is not a descendant of a general, nor is he a member of a wealthy family. He is dissatisfied with the current situation, which leads to this.

summary:
In the seventh ordinary year, General Yuan Shu of Anxi went to Shouchun. Wei's Yuzhou governor Li Xian sent his son to build forts; Qingzhi attacked, Li Xian surrendered, and Qingzhi occupied the city. He was transferred to Donggong Zhihe and titled Marquis of Guanzhong. In Datong's first year, a subordinate leader fortified and conquered Yan. General Changshan Wang Yuanzhao led 150,000 cavalry and infantry to rescue, reaching Tuojian, 40 miles from Guoyang. Qingzhi wanted to fight, but Tong Zhen advised caution. Qingzhi argued the Wei were tired and unsuspecting; he led 200 cavalry to defeat their front army. The Wei were horrified. Qingzhi then returned, and the generals attacked together, occupying Woyang City. From spring to winter, hundreds of battles ensued. The army grew exhausted, and Wei reinforcements threatened. Zhongzong and others planned retreat, but Qingzhi insisted on fighting, capturing four of thirteen Wei fortifications. Wang Wei of Woyang surrendered. Qingzhi displayed captured ears, beat drums, and attacked, causing the enemy to collapse. Over 30,000 men and women were captured. West Xuzhou was established on Guoyang's land. Emperor Gaozu praised Qingzhi in a personal letter.

================================================================================

Summary line 2
Span: 27-70 (score=0.6474)

original:
所余九城，兵甲犹盛，乃陈其俘馘，鼓噪而攻之，遂大奔溃，斩获略尽，涡水咽流，降城中男女三万余口。
诏以涡阳之地置西徐州。
众军乘胜前顿城父。
高祖嘉焉，赐庆之手诏曰： 本非将种，又非豪家，觖望风云，以至于此。
可深思奇略，善克令终。
开硃门而待宾，扬声名于竹帛，岂非大丈夫哉！
大通初，魏北海王元颢以本朝大乱，自拔来降，求立为魏主。
高祖纳之，以庆之为假节、飚勇将军，送元颢还北。
颢于涣水即魏帝号，授庆之使持节、镇北将军、护军、前军大都督，发自铚县，进拔荥城，遂至睢阳。
魏将丘大千有众七万，分筑九城以相拒。
庆之攻之，自旦至申，陷其三垒，大千乃降。
时魏征东将军济阴王元晖业率羽林庶子二万人来救梁、宋，进屯考城，城四面萦水，守备严固。
庆之命浮水筑垒，攻陷其城，生擒晖业，获租车七千八百辆。
仍趋大梁，望旗归款。
颢进庆之卫将军、徐州刺史、武都公。
仍率众而西。
魏左仆射杨昱、西阿王元庆、抚军将军元显恭率御仗羽林宗子庶子众凡七万，据荥阳拒颢。
兵既精强，城又险固，庆之攻未能拔。
魏将元天穆大军复将至，先遣其骠骑将军尔硃吐没儿领胡骑五千，骑将鲁安领夏州步骑九千，援杨昱；又遣右仆射尔硃世隆、西荆州刺史王罴骑一万，据虎牢。
天穆、吐没儿前后继至，旗鼓相望。
时荥阳未拔，士众皆恐，庆之乃解鞍秣马，宣喻众曰： 吾至此以来，屠城略地，实为不少；君等杀人父兄，略人子女，又为无算。
天穆之众，并是仇雠。
我等才有七千，虏众三十余万，今日之事，义不图存。
吾以虏骑不可争力平原，及未尽至前，须平其城垒，诸君无假狐疑，自贻屠脍。
一鼓悉使登城，壮士东阳宋景休、义兴鱼天愍逾堞而入，遂克之。
俄而魏阵外合，庆之率骑三千背城逆战，大破之，鲁安于阵乞降，元天穆、尔硃吐没儿单骑获免。
收荥阳储实，牛马谷帛不可胜计。
进赴虎牢，尔硃世隆弃城走。
魏主元子攸惧，奔并州。
其临淮王元彧、安豊王元延明率百僚，封府库，备法驾，奉迎颢入洛阳宫，御前殿，改元大赦。
颢以庆之为侍中、车骑大将军、左光禄大夫，增邑万户。
魏大将军上党王元天穆、王老生、李叔仁又率众四万，攻陷大梁，分遣老生、费穆兵二万，据虎牢，刁宣、刁双入梁、宋，庆之随方掩袭，并皆降款。
天穆与十余骑北渡河。
高祖复赐手诏称美焉。
庆之麾下悉著白袍，所向披靡。
先是洛阳童谣曰： 名师大将莫自牢，千兵万马避白袍。
自发铚县至于洛阳，十四旬平三十二城，四十七战，所向无前。
初，元子攸止单骑奔走，宫卫嫔侍无改于常。颢既得志，荒于酒色，乃日夜宴乐，不复视事。与安豊、临淮共立奸计，将背朝恩，绝宾贡之礼；直以时事未安，且资庆之之力用，外同内异，言多忌刻。
庆之心知之，亦密为其计。
乃说颢曰： 今远来至此，未伏尚多，若人知虚实，方更连兵，而安不忘危，须预为其策。
宜启天子，更请精兵；并勒诸州，有南人没此者，悉须部送。
颢欲从之，元延明说颢曰： 陈庆之兵不出数千，已自难制；今增其众，宁肯复为用乎？
权柄一去，动转听人，魏之宗社，于斯而灭。
颢由是致疑，稍成疏贰。

translation:
The remaining nine city forts, whose military strength was still strong, displayed the left ears of the captured and slain enemies, beat drums and shouted to attack the enemies. The enemy then collapsed, captured a small amount of them, the vortex was filled, and more than 30,000 men and women in the city were captured.
Shao established West Xuzhou on the land of Guoyang.
Taking advantage of the victory, all the troops moved forward and stationed themselves in Chengfu.
Emperor Gaozu praised him and gave Qingzhi a Shao Shu written by him, saying: He is not a descendant of a general, nor is he a member of a wealthy family. He is dissatisfied with the current situation, which leads to this.
You can think deeply about the strategy and start well and end well.
Isn't it a true man to open the royal door to receive guests and spread the word of fame in books?
In the early years of Datong, Wang Yuanhao of Wei Beihai took the initiative to get out of trouble and surrendered because of the chaos in his dynasty, and asked to make him the lord of Wei.
Emperor Gaozu accepted him, appointed him Qingzhi Jiejie and Biaoyong General, and sent Yuan Hao back to the north.
Yuan Hao took the title of Emperor of Wei at Huanshui. He was awarded the title of Chijie, the envoy of Qing, general of Zhenbei, guard of the army, and commander of the front army. He set out from Liao County, advanced to Rongcheng, and then arrived in Suiyang.
Wei general Qiu Dagan had 70,000 troops and built nine forts to resist.
Qingzhi attacked him, and from dawn to afternoon, three city fortresses were captured, and Daqian surrendered.
At that time, General Wei Zhengshu, Jiyin Wang Yuanhuiye, led the Royal Guards and 20,000 noble servicemen to rescue Zhe and Si, and stationed in Huaqiu. The city was surrounded by water and was tightly guarded.
Qing ordered him to build a fortress on the water, capture the city, capture Zhuang Tomb alive, and seize 7,800 vehicles for transporting taxes.
Then they headed straight towards Dafun. The enemy looked at the flag and surrendered.
The five titles include the general of the guard of Shengqing, the governor of Lansu, and the arrest of Duke He.
So he led the people to the west.
Wei Zuopu shot Yang Yu, Xi'a Wang Yuanqing, and Fujun general Yuan Xianggong led the emperor's guard, royal family members, and nobles with a total of 70,000 soldiers, and occupied Rongyang to resist Yuan Hao.
The soldiers were strong and the city was dangerous, but Qingzhu failed to capture the city.
Wei general Yuan Tianmu's army was approaching again. He first sent his hussar general Erzhu Tumel to lead 5,000 Hu cavalry, and cavalry general Lu An to lead 9,000 Xiazhou infantry to assist Yang Dan. He also sent his right servant She'er Zhu Shilong and West Jingzhou governor Wang Zhuan's 10,000 cavalry to guard Hulao.
Tianmu and Tumeier arrived one after another, facing each other.
At that time, the stem salt had not been pulled out, and the soldiers were all frightened. Qingzhi took off his saddle and fed the war horses, and announced to everyone: Since I arrived here, I have broken down the city, killed people, and invaded a lot of land. You have killed fathers and brothers, and plundered people's children, which is incalculable.
Everyone in Tianmu is an enemy.
We only have 7,000 people and more than 300,000 captives. What happened today is that we are not seeking survival.
I and the captives cannot compete with each other in strength on the plains. Before he arrives, his fortress must be pacified. Don't be suspicious, sir. This will cause delays in having others slaughtered and cut into pieces.
So they all climbed up the city in one go. The strong men Shuyang Rensaixingti and Zhanzhao Mermaid Tianmin jumped over the low wall of the city and entered, thus conquering the city fortress.
In an instant, the tomb army gathered outside the city. Qingzhi led three thousand cavalry back to the city to fight and defeated the Wei army. Luan begged for surrender in his position. Yuan Yukui and Ji Zhu Tumel were able to escape.
Collecting Rongyang to store physical goods, cattle, horses, grain and silk are countless.
Entering Hulao, Zhu Shichen abandoned the city and fled.
The owner of the tomb, Yuan Ziyou, was very frightened and ran away.
When the silk was prosperous and prosperous, Wu Yanlong led hundreds of officials, closed the place where property and armor were stored, prepared the emperor's carriages and horses, welcomed Wu Ti into the Luoyang Palace, ascended the throne in the front hall, changed the title of the year, and granted amnesty to criminals.
In the Yuan Dynasty, Qingzhi was appointed as a servant, a general of chariots and cavalry, and a doctor of Zuo Guanglu, and the number of households in the city increased by 10,000.
The generals of Wei, Shangdang Wang Yuantianmu, Wang Laosheng, and Kui Huren, led another 40,000 troops to capture Daliang. They assigned 20,000 soldiers from Laosheng and Dengmu to defend the void.
More than ten cavalrymen from Tianmuyu crossed Donghui northward.
Shandan also gave him a Shao calligraphy written by himself, calling it Meiqing.
Qing's subordinates all wore white robes and were invincible.
First, there is a nursery rhyme in Luoyang that says: Famous masters and generals should not think that they are strong. Thousands of troops should avoid white robes.
From Zhixian to Luoyang, it took a total of 140 days to level 32 city fortresses and engage in 47 battles. No one could stop him wherever he went.
At the beginning, Yuan Ziyou was defeated alone, and the usual system of guards, concubines, and poets in the palace remained unchanged. After Yuan Hao succeeded, he indulged in wine and sex, feasted day and night, and no longer took office. Together with King Anfeng and King Linhuai, he planned to betray the favor of the court and refused to pay tribute to the emperor's etiquette. However, because the current situation was not stable, and he had to rely on Qingzhi's ability and role, he was the same on the outside but different on the inside, and his words were jealous and harsh.
Qingzhi knew this and planned it secretly.
Then he said to Yuan Hao: "There are still many people who have not surrendered since they came to this place from afar." If these people know our true and false position, they will increase their numbers and be prepared for danger in times of peace. They need to prepare countermeasures in advance.
We should report to the emperor and ask for elite troops to be sent. We should also force all the states to escort all the people from the south who have invaded this area.
Yuan Hao wanted to obey, but Yuan Yanming said to Yuan Hao: It's difficult for you to control Chen Qingzhi's troops if he doesn't have enough troops. Now that he has increased his number, how can he be willing to use it for you anymore?
Losing authority and obeying others, the ancestral temple and the state of Wei were destroyed.
Yuan Hao became suspicious and gradually alienated and turned away from Qingzhi.

summary:
In early Datong, Wei's Wang Yuanhao surrendered due to internal chaos, seeking to become lord of Wei. Emperor Gaozu appointed Qingzhi as Jiejie and Biaoyong General, sending Yuan Hao north. Yuan Hao declared himself Emperor of Wei at Huanshui. Qingzhi, as Chijie and commander, advanced from Liao County to Suiyang. Wei general Qiu Dagan had 70,000 troops in nine forts; Qingzhi captured three by afternoon, and Daqian surrendered. Wei's Jiyin Wang Yuanhuiye led 20,000 troops to rescue; Qingzhi built a fortress on water, captured the city, and seized 7,800 tax vehicles. Heading to Dafun, enemies surrendered at the sight of his flag. Qingzhi became General of the Guard and Governor of Lansu. He led forces west. Wei's Yang Yu, Xi'a Wang Yuanqing, and Yuan Xianggong led 70,000 troops to hold Rongyang. Qingzhi failed to capture it. Wei general Yuan Tianmu's army approached; Qingzhi, with only 7,000 troops against 300,000 captives, rallied his men, conquered Rongyang, and defeated Tianmu's army. He entered Hulao, and Zhu Shichen fled. Yuan Ziyou fled, and Yuan Hao entered Luoyang Palace, ascending the throne. Qingzhi was appointed servant and general, with increased households. Wei generals led 40,000 troops to capture Daliang; Qingzhi's white-robed subordinates were invincible. A Luoyang nursery rhyme warned: "Thousands of troops should avoid white robes." From Zhixian to Luoyang, in 140 days, Qingzhi leveled 32 fortresses and fought 47 battles, unstoppable.

================================================================================

Summary line 3
Span: 66-105 (score=0.6068)

original:
乃说颢曰： 今远来至此，未伏尚多，若人知虚实，方更连兵，而安不忘危，须预为其策。
宜启天子，更请精兵；并勒诸州，有南人没此者，悉须部送。
颢欲从之，元延明说颢曰： 陈庆之兵不出数千，已自难制；今增其众，宁肯复为用乎？
权柄一去，动转听人，魏之宗社，于斯而灭。
颢由是致疑，稍成疏贰。
虑庆之密启，乃表高祖曰： 河北、河南一时已定，唯尔硃荣尚敢跋扈，臣与庆之自能擒讨。
今州郡新服，正须绥抚，不宜更复加兵，摇动百姓。
高祖遂诏众军皆停界首。
洛下南人不出一万，羌夷十倍，军副马佛念言于庆之曰： 功高不赏，震主身危，二事既有，将军岂得无虑？
自古以来，废昏立明，扶危定难，鲜有得终。
今将军威震中原，声动河塞，屠颢据洛，则千载一时也。
庆之不从。
颢前以庆之为徐州刺史，因固求之镇。
颢心惮之，遂不遣。
乃曰： 主上以洛阳之地全相任委，忽闻舍此朝寄，欲往彭城，谓君遽取富贵，不为国计，手敕频仍，恐成仆责。
庆之不敢复言。
魏天柱将军尔硃荣、右仆射尔硃世隆、大都督元天穆、骠骑将军尔硃吐没儿、荣长史高欢、鲜卑、芮芮，勒众号百万，挟魏主元子攸来攻颢。颢据洛阳六十五日，凡所得城，一时反叛。
庆之渡河守北中郎城，三日中十有一战，伤杀甚众。
荣将退，时有刘助者，善天文，乃谓荣曰： 不出十日，河南大定。
荣乃缚木为筏，济自硖石，与颢战于河桥，颢大败，走至临颍，遇贼被擒，洛阳陷。
庆之马步数千，结阵东反，荣亲自来追，值蒿高山水洪溢，军人死散。
庆之乃落须发为沙门，间行至豫州，豫州人程道雍等潜送出汝阴。
至都，仍以功除右卫将军，封永兴县侯，邑一千五百户。
出为持节、都督缘淮诸军事、奋武将军、北兗州刺史。
会有妖贼沙门僧强自称为帝，土豪蔡伯龙起兵应之。僧强颇知幻术，更相扇惑，众至三万，攻陷北徐州，济阴太守杨起文弃城走，钟离太守单希宝见害，使庆之讨焉。
车驾幸白下，临饯谓庆之曰： 江、淮兵劲，其锋难当，卿可以策制之，不宜决战。
庆之受命而行。
曾未浃辰，斩伯龙、僧强，传其首。
中大通二年，除都督南、北司、西豫、豫四州诸军事、南、北司二州刺史，余并如故。
庆之至镇，遂围悬瓠。
破魏颍州刺史娄起、扬州刺史是云宝于溱水，又破行台孙腾、大都督侯进、豫州刺史尧雄、梁州刺史司马恭于楚城。
罢义阳镇兵，停水陆转运，江湖诸州并得休息。
开田六千顷，二年之后，仓廪充实。
高祖每嘉劳之。
又表省南司州，复安陆郡，置上明郡。
大同二年，魏遣将侯景率众七万寇楚州，刺史桓和陷没，景仍进军淮上，贻庆之书使降。
敕遣湘潭侯退、右卫夏侯夔等赴援，军至黎浆，庆之已击破景。
时大寒雪，景弃辎重走，庆之收之以归。
进号仁威将军。
是岁，豫州饥，庆之开仓赈给，多所全济。

translation:
Then he said to Yuan Hao: "There are still many people who have not surrendered since they came to this place from afar." If these people know our true and false position, they will increase their numbers and be prepared for danger in times of peace. They need to prepare countermeasures in advance.
We should report to the emperor and ask for elite troops to be sent. We should also force all the states to escort all the people from the south who have invaded this area.
Yuan Hao wanted to obey, but Yuan Yanming said to Yuan Hao: It's difficult for you to control Chen Qingzhi's troops if he doesn't have enough troops. Now that he has increased his number, how can he be willing to use it for you anymore?
Losing authority and obeying others, the ancestral temple and the state of Wei were destroyed.
Yuan Hao became suspicious and gradually alienated and turned away from Qingzhi.
He was also worried about Qingzhi's secret report to the emperor, so he first reported to Emperor Gaozu: Hebei and Henan have been pacified for a while, but only Ji Zhurong dares to be domineering, and I and Qingzhi can capture him.
Now the prefecture and county have just surrendered and are in need of appeasement. It is not appropriate to send more troops to work for the people.
Emperor Gaozu then went down to Shao and stationed all his troops at the front edge of the border.
There are less than 10,000 Nan people in Luoxia, and the number of Qiang and barbarians is ten times that of them. The deputy commander of the army, Ma Fo Nian, said to Qingzhi: If there is no reward for great achievements, it will be dangerous for the monarch to be afraid. These two things have already happened. Is the general unconcerned?
Since ancient times, the emperor has been dethroned and the wise king has been established to help the crisis and resolve the difficulties. Very few people have a good death.
Today, the general's power has shaken the Central Plains and moved the rivers. It is a rare opportunity to kill Yuan Hao and defend Luoyang.
Qingzhi didn't listen.
Yuan Hao had appointed Ren Qingzhi as the governor of Xuzhou, so Qingzhi insisted on guarding it.
Yuan Hao was afraid of him, so he didn't send him.
Then he said: Your Majesty has entrusted the whole land of Luoyang to you. Suddenly I heard the decision to leave the imperial court. I want to go to Pengcheng. I will say that you will soon become rich and noble, and you will no longer plan for the country. The edicts are coming one after another. I am afraid it will become my responsibility to keep you.
Qingzhi did not dare to say anything more.
Wei Tianzhu's general Ji Zhufu, his right servant Sheqi Sai Shilong, the chief governor Wu Yulong, the hussar general Ji Zhu Tumu'er, Ji Zhurong's chief ministers Gao Huan, Xianbei and Ruirui, all claiming to have millions, took the Wei lord Yuan Ziyou and attacked Yuan Hao. Yuan Hao held Luoyang for sixty-five days, and all the fortresses he gained rebelled against him.
Qingzhi crossed the Yellow River to defend Beizhonglang City, and fought eleven times in three days, injuring and killing many people.
Ji Zhurong was about to retreat. Liu Ling came to help, and he knew astronomy, so he said to Er Zhurong: "In less than ten days, Hemu will be settled."
Sansai Tomb then tied the wood into a raft, crossed Tongtou from Duidu to each other, and fought with Wuti at Jiongzhong. Genti was defeated and fled to Duoyuan. He was captured by thieves and Luoyang fell.
Qingzhi had thousands of horsemen and infantry, formed a formation and returned eastward. Er Zhurong came to chase him personally. It happened that the Songgao Mountain was flooded and the soldiers died and dispersed.
Qingzhi cut off his hair and shaved his head and became a monk. He traveled to Yuzhou on a small road. Cheng Daoyong from Yuzhou and others secretly sent him out of Ruyin.
When he arrived at the capital, he was awarded the title of General Youwei for his merits and was granted the title of Yongxing County Fortress, with a settlement of 1,500 households.
Later he served as Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of Yuanhuai's military affairs, General Fenwu, and Governor of Northern Yanzhou.
At this time, there was a demon thief monk named Tan Qiang who claimed to be the emperor. The local tycoon's tombs raised soldiers to fight against him. The monk Qiang knew the magic of illusion and even more instigated people's hearts. With 30,000 followers, he captured North Xuzhou. Yang Qiwen, the prefect of Jiyin, abandoned the city and fled. Shan Xishi, the prefect of Zhongzheng, was killed, so he sent Qingzhi to attack him.
The emperor came to Baixia in person to hold a banquet to see him off, and said to Qingzhi: "Jiang's army is strong, and it is difficult to withstand his attack. You can use tactics to subdue him, but it is not appropriate to fight decisively."
Qingzhi followed the order.
In less than twelve days, Bolong and Sengqiang were killed and their heads were displayed to the public.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was granted the title of military governor of the four states of Nansi, Beisi, Xiyu and Henan, and governor of the two states of Nansi and Beisi. The other positions remained as before.
When Qingzhi arrived in the town, he surrounded Jianqu.
In Tu Cheng, he defeated Lou Qi, the governor of Tiye Prefecture, and Xingyunshi, the governor of Tiye. In Chuyue, he defeated Xingtai Huanjiang, Dadu Bajin, Yao Xiong, the governor of Liaozhou, and Sima Gong, the governor of Luan Maggot.
The troops in Shabao Town were removed, water and land transportation were stopped, and the Jianghu states were able to rest and recuperate.
Six thousand hectares of land were opened, and two years later, the warehouses were full.
Zhidan often praised and comforted him.
In addition, Nansi Prefecture was abolished, Anlu County was restored, and Shangming County was established.
In the second year of Datong, Wei sent General Hou Jing and 70,000 troops to invade Chuzhou, and the governor Huanhe was captured. Hou Jing then marched forward and sent a letter to Qingzhi asking him to surrender.
He ordered Xiangtan Hou Tui, right guard Xia Houkui and others to go to reinforcements. When the army reached Lijing, Qingzhi had defeated Hou Jing.
It was cold and snowy at that time, so Hou Jing abandoned the military supplies and fled, but Qingzhi collected them and returned.
The promotion number is General Renwei.
In the year of dispatch, there was a famine in Yuzhou. Qingzhi opened warehouses to provide relief, and many of them had Quanji.

summary:
Yuan Hao indulged in wine and sex, plotting against Qingzhi. Qingzhi planned secretly but was alienated. Yuan Hao refused to send more troops. Qingzhi's deputy warned of danger, suggesting killing Yuan Hao, but Qingzhi refused. Yuan Hao appointed Qingzhi governor of Xuzhou but feared him and didn't send him. Wei's Ji Zhufu and others, claiming millions, attacked Yuan Hao. Qingzhi crossed the Yellow River to defend Beizhonglang City, fighting eleven times in three days. Ji Zhurong nearly retreated but was advised to stay. He crossed the river, defeated Yuan Hao, and Luoyang fell. Qingzhi, with thousands, formed a formation and returned east. Ji Zhurong pursued; Songgao Mountain flooded, scattering his soldiers. Qingzhi shaved his head, became a monk, and traveled to Yuzhou. He was secretly sent to the capital, awarded General Youwei and Yongxing County Fortress. Later, as Chijie and governor of Northern Yanzhou, he defeated the demon thief monk Tan Qiang, killing him in twelve days. In Zhongdatong's second year, he became military governor of four states. He opened 6,000 hectares of land, filling warehouses. In Datong's second year, Wei's Hou Jing invaded Chuzhou; Qingzhi defeated him in snowy conditions. He was promoted to General Renwei. During a famine in Yuzhou, he opened warehouses for relief. He died at fifty-six, posthumously honored. Qingzhi was cautious, wore no silk, disliked music, and comforted his soldiers well.

================================================================================

Summary line 4
Span: 111-158 (score=0.6662)

original:
庆之性祗慎，衣不纨绮，不好丝竹，射不穿札，马非所便，而善抚军士，能得其死力。
长子昭嗣。
第五子昕，字君章。
七岁能骑射。
十二随父入洛，于路遇疾，还京师。
诣鸿胪卿硃异，异访北间形势，昕聚土画地，指麾分别，异甚奇之。
大同四年，为邵陵王常侍、文德主帅、右卫仗主，敕遣助防义阳。
魏豫州刺史尧雄，北间骁将，兄子宝乐，特为敢勇。
庆之围悬瓠，雄来赴其难，宝乐求单骑校战，昕跃马直趣宝乐，雄即散溃，仍陷溱城。
六年，除威远将军、小岘城主，以公事免。
十年，妖贼王勤宗起于巴山郡，以昕为宣猛将军，假节讨焉。
勤宗平，除阴陵戍主、北谯太守，以疾不之官。
又除骠骑外兵，俄为临川太守。
太清二年，侯景围历阳，敕召昕还，昕启云： 采石急须重镇，王质水军轻弱，恐虑不济。
乃板昕为云骑将军，代质，未及下渚，景已渡江，仍遣率所领游防城外，不得入守。
欲奔京口，乃为景所擒。
景见昕殷勤，因留极饮，曰： 我至此得卿，余人无能为也。
令昕收集部曲，将用之，昕誓而不许。
景使其仪同范桃棒严禁之，昕因说桃棒令率所领归降，袭杀王伟、宋子仙为信。
桃棒许之，遂盟约，射启城中，遣昕夜缒而入。
高祖大喜，敕即受降，太宗迟疑累日不决，外事发泄，昕弗之知，犹依期而下。
景邀得之，乃逼昕令更射书城中，云 桃棒且轻将数十人先入。
景欲裹甲随之。
昕既不肯为书，期以必死，遂为景所害，时年三十三。
兰钦，字休明，中昌魏人也。
父子云，天监中，军功官至云麾将军，冀州刺史。
钦幼而果决，篸捷过人。随父北征，授东宫直阁。
大通元年，攻魏萧城，拔之。
仍破彭城别将郊仲，进攻拟山城，破其大都督刘属众二十万。
进攻笼城，获马千余匹。
又破其大将柴集及襄城太守高宣、别将范思念、郑承宗等。
仍攻厥固、张龙、子城，未拔，魏彭城守将杨目遣子孝邕率轻兵来援，钦逆击走之。
又破谯州刺史刘海游，还拔厥固，收其家口。
杨目又遣都督范思念、别将曹龙牙数万众来援，钦与战，于阵斩龙牙，传首京师。
又假钦节，都督衡州三郡兵，讨桂阳、阳山、始兴叛蛮，至即平破之。
封安怀县男，邑五百户。
又破天漆蛮帅晚时得。
会衡州刺史元庆和为桂阳人严容所围，遣使告急，钦往应援，破容罗溪，于是长乐诸洞一时平荡。
又密敕钦向魏兴，经南郑，属魏将托跋胜寇襄阳，仍敕赴援。
除持节、督南梁、南、北秦、沙四州诸军事、光烈将军、平西校尉、梁、南秦二州刺史，增封五百户，进爵为侯。
破通生，擒行台元子礼、大将薛俊、张菩萨，魏梁州刺史元罗遂降，梁、汉底定。
进号智武将军，增封二千户。
俄改授持节、都督衡、桂二州诸军事、衡州刺史。未及述职，魏遣都督董绍、张献攻围南郑，梁州刺史杜怀瑶请救。钦率所领援之，大破绍、献于高桥城，斩首三千余，绍、献奔退，追入斜谷，斩获略尽。
西魏相宇文黑泰致马二千匹，请结邻好。
诏加散骑常侍，进号仁威将军，增封五百户，仍令述职。
经广州，因破俚帅陈文彻兄弟，并擒之。
至衡州，进号平南将军，改封曲江县公，增邑五百户。
在州有惠政，吏民诣阙请立碑颂德，诏许焉。

translation:
Qing is cautious by nature, does not wear silk clothes, does not like music, does not wear decorated hearth armor when participating in shooting ceremonies, and the horse he rides is not agile, but he is good at comforting the soldiers, so they can all do their best.
The eldest son, Chen Zhao, was the heir.
The fifth son, Chen Ting, was given the courtesy name Junzhang.
He can ride and shoot at the age of seven.
At the age of twelve, he followed his father to Luoyang. He fell ill on the road and returned to the capital.
Visiting Hongshan Qing Zhu Yi, Zhu Yi asked about the situation in the north. Chen Xin gathered soil on the ground and drew pictures to show the differences. Zhu Yi was surprised.
In the fourth year of Datong, he was appointed as the Changshi of Shaoling King, the coach of Wende, and the leader of the right guard. He was ordered to send him to Yiyang to assist in the defense.
Yao Xiong, the governor of Yuzhou in Wei. He is a fierce general from the north, brother Baole, who is particularly brave.
Qingzhi surrounded Mo Pad and painted Sheng to rescue the enemy. Xuan Le asked to ride alone to fight. He quickly listened to the prancing horse and went straight to Shi Le. Yao Xiong's army immediately collapsed and captured Qin Tan.
In the sixth year, he was awarded the title of General Weiyuan and Lord of Xiaoxian City, and was dismissed due to official business.
In the tenth year, the demon thief Wang Qinzong raised an army in Bashan County, appointed Chen Xin as General Xuanmeng, and went to conquer during the holidays.
Qinzong was pacified, and Chen Tingyin was appointed as the garrison commander and the prefect of Liizhan, but he did not take office due to illness.
He was also awarded the title of hussar foreign soldier, and soon he was appointed as the prefect of Linchuan.
In the second year of Taiqing, Hou Jing surrounded Liyang and ordered Chen Ting to return. Chen Ting said in a memorial: "The quarrying is urgent and requires heavy troops to guard it. Wang Zhi's naval force is weak, so worries and worries are of no use."
So Chen Ting was appointed as General Yunqi to replace Wang Zhi. Before Chen Ting could reach the waterside, Hou Jing had already crossed the river, so he sent his generals to guard outside the city and not to enter.
He wanted to escape to Jingkou, but was captured by Hou Jing.
Hou Jing saw that Chen Ting was diligent, so he left him to drink as much as he wanted, saying: "I've got you here." No one else can.
Chen Xin was ordered to gather troops and was about to be used, but Suza refused to obey.
The order ordered his Yi Tong Jie Mansui to strictly prohibit fast selling, so Chen Xin persuaded Taobang Ling to lead his troops to surrender, and used the attack and killing of Wang Wei and Song Zixian as a signal.
Taobang agreed, so he formed an alliance, shot the letter into the city, and sent Chen Ting to enter the city with a rope at night.
Emperor Gaozu was overjoyed and ordered to surrender immediately, but Emperor Taizong hesitated a lot. The secret was leaked outside, but Chen Ting didn't know it, so he still went out of the city as scheduled.
Hou Jing intercepted Chen Ting and forced Chen Xin to let him shoot the book into the city again, saying that Taobang would lead dozens of people into the city first.
Hou Jing wanted to follow him into the city with weapons.
Since Chen Xin refused to write a book, he expected to die, so he was killed by Hou Jing at the age of thirty-three.
Lanqin, whose courtesy name was Xiu Ming, was from Zhongchang Wei.
His father, Lan Yun, during the Tianjian period, was a military officer who rose to the rank of General Yunhui and served as the governor of Jizhou.
Lanqin was young, decisive, strong and agile. He followed his father in the northern expedition and was awarded the title of Zhihe of the East Palace.
In the first year of Datong, he attacked Wei Xiao City and captured the city fortress.
Then he defeated Pengcheng's general Jiao Zhong, attacked Xiang Shanhan, and defeated the 200,000 subordinates of Liu, the commander-in-chief.
Attacked the cage city and captured more than a thousand horses.
He also defeated his general Chai Ji, Gao Xuan, the governor of Xiangcheng, and other generals Fan Sinian, Zheng Chengzong and others.
So they attacked Juegu, Zhanglong, and Zicheng, but failed to capture them. Yang Mu, the defender of Wei Pengcheng, sent Zi Cuiyong and his lightly-armed soldiers to come to his aid. Lanqin attacked and drove him away.
He also defeated Liu Haiyou, the governor of Qiaozhou, and came to capture Juegu and arrest his family.
Yang Mu also sent the governor Fan Si Nian and his general Cao Long Ya to help him. They organized the battle of Fu Yu and killed Long Ya in the battle formation and passed the head to the capital.
On the occasion of the Lanqin Festival, the commander-in-chief of the three counties of Hengzhou attacked the barbarians in Guiyang and Yangshan, and Shixing rebellious barbarians were immediately put down.
He was granted the title of male in Anhuai County and was granted the title of 500 households in the city.
He also defeated Duiqi Manshuai and got it later.
At that time, Yuan Qinghe, the governor of Hengzhou, was surrounded by Yan Rong from Guiyang. He sent an envoy to ask for help. Daozhen went to support him and defeated Yongxun in Moxuan, so all the Kuangluan caves were temporarily destroyed.
He also secretly ordered Lan Qin to go to Wei Xing and pass through Nan Yin. When the general Jue Bisheng of Jiu Qiang invaded Sai Ying, he ordered Yan Fu to come to the rescue.
He was granted the title of Lan Qinzhijie, governor of the military affairs of the four states of Nanliang, Southern Qin, Northern Qin, and Sha, general Guanglie, captain of Pingxi, and governor of Liang and Southern Qin.
Later, they captured Tongsheng and captured Xingtai Yuanzili, generals Qu'an and Zhang Bodhisattva. The tomb chisel Cong governor Wumo surrendered, and Luan and Yi were pacified.
He was promoted to General Zhiwu and granted two thousand additional households.
Soon after, he was awarded the title of Chijie, the governor of Heng, the military affairs of Gui Erzhou, and the governor of Hengzhou. Before he could take office, Wei sent the governors Dong Shao and Zhang Xian to attack Zhichi. The governor of Liangzhou, Sibao Mo, asked for rescue and led his troops to rescue them. They defeated Dong Shao and Zhang Xian in Gaoqiao City and beheaded more than three cadres.
Xi Yun Xiang Yu Wen Heitai sent 2,000 horses, please become friendly neighbors.
The imperial edict ordered Jialanqin to serve as a regular attendant, to be promoted to the title of General Renwei, and to increase the title of 500 households, but he was still allowed to serve.
He governed Guangzhou, so he defeated the brothers Chen Wenche, the Li commander, and captured them.
When he arrived in Hengzhou, he was promoted to General Zinan, and was granted the title of Duke of Qujiang County, adding 500 households to the city.
In the state's governance, officials and people went to the palace to request that a monument be erected to praise his virtues, and Xia Shao agreed.

summary:
His son Chen Zhao was heir. Fifth son Chen Ting, courtesy name Junzhang, could ride and shoot at seven. At twelve, he followed his father to Luoyang but fell ill. He impressed Zhu Yi by drawing maps in soil. In Datong's fourth year, he was appointed Changshi and leader of the right guard, sent to Yiyang. He defeated Yao Xiong, a fierce Wei general. In the sixth year, he was titled General Weiyuan and Lord of Xiaoxian. In the tenth year, he pacified the demon thief Wang Qinzong. In Taiqing's second year, Hou Jing surrounded Liyang. Chen Ting advised guarding the quarry but was captured by Hou Jing. Hou Jing tried to use him, but Chen Ting refused. He was killed by Hou Jing at thirty-three. Lanqin, courtesy name Xiu Ming, was from Zhongchang Wei. His father Lan Yun served as governor of Jizhou. Lanqin was decisive and agile, following his father in the northern expedition. In Datong's first year, he attacked Wei Xiao City and defeated various generals. He captured Juegu and defeated Liu Haiyou. He pacified barbarians in Guiyang and Yangshan, was titled male in Anhuai County. He defeated Duiqi Manshuai and rescued Yuan Qinghe. He was granted command of four states, captured Tongsheng, and pacified Luan and Yi. He was promoted to General Zhiwu. Later, as governor of Hengzhou, he defeated Wei's Dong Shao and Zhang Xian. He governed Guangzhou, defeating Chen Wenche. In Hengzhou, he was promoted to General Zinan and Duke of Qujiang County. Officials requested a monument for his virtues. He was recruited as a regular servant but was poisoned by a cook at forty-two. His son Zi Xia Li attacked Hou Jing at Liyang and died. The historian comments that Chen Qingzhi and Lanqin rivaled ancient generals in military strategy. Qingzhi was intelligent and served Zhidan long, earning honors through caution and respect.

================================================================================

