Chunk 0: 
original: 
东方朔字曼倩，平原厌次人也。
武帝初即位，征天下举方正贤良文学材力之士，待以不次之位，四方士多上书言得失，自衒鬻者以千数，其不足采者辄报闻罢。朔初来，上书曰： 臣朔少失父母，长养兄嫂。
年十三学书，三冬文史足用。
十五学击剑。
十六学《诗》、《书》，诵二十二万言。
十九学孙、吴兵法，战阵之具，钲鼓之教，亦诵二十二万言。
凡臣朔固已诵四十四万言。
又常服子路之言。
臣朔年二十二，长九尺三寸，目若悬珠，齿若编贝，勇若孟贲，捷若庆忌，廉若鲍叔，信若尾生。
若此，可以为天子大臣矣。臣朔昧死再拜以闻。
朔文辞不逊，高自称誉，上伟之，令待诏公车，奉禄薄，未得省见。
translation: 
Dongfang Shuo, courtesy name Manqian, was born in Yanci County, Pingyuan County.
Not long after Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he asked the world to recommend scholars with talents such as integrity, virtuousness, and literature, and appointed them with special positions. Scholars from all over the world wrote letters to discuss the gains and losses of national affairs. As soon as Dongfang Shuo arrived in Chang'an, he wrote a letter saying: I, Dongfang Shuo, lost his parents when he was young and was raised by his brother and sister-in-law.
He started studying at the age of thirteen and learned writing and note-taking in three years.
Learned fencing at the age of fifteen.
At the age of sixteen, he studied the Book of Songs and Shangshu and recited 220,000 words.
At the age of nineteen, he studied Sun Wu's Art of War, and recited 220,000 words on battle formations, control of the advance and retreat of troops during battles, etc.
I memorized a total of 440,000 words.
He is also often familiar with Zilu's remarks.
I am twenty-two years old, nine feet three inches tall, my eyes are as bright as hanging pearls, my teeth are as neat and white as strings of shells, I am as brave as Meng Ben, as agile as Qing Ji, as honest as Uncle Bao, and as trustworthy as Weisheng.
A person like this can be a minister of the emperor. My minister Dongfang Shuo risked his life to pay homage to the emperor again.
Dongfang Shuo's letter was not modest, but he praised and promoted himself. However, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty thought that he was a great man and ordered him to stay with Shao in the Gongche Mansion. However, his salary was meager and he could not receive an interview from Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
久之，朔绐驺朱儒，曰： 上以若曹无益于县官，耕田力作固不及人，临众处官不能治民，从军击虏不任兵事，无益于国用，徒索衣食，今欲尽杀若曹。
朱儒大恐，啼泣。
朔教曰： 上即过，叩头请罪。
居有顷，闻上过，朱儒皆号泣顿首。上问： 何为？
对曰： 东方朔言上欲尽诛臣等。
上知朔多端，召问朔： 何恐朱儒为？
对曰： 臣朔生亦言，死亦言。
朱儒长三尺余，奉一囊粟，钱二百四十。
臣朔长九尺余，亦奉一囊粟，钱二百四十。
朱儒饱欲死，臣朔饥欲死。
臣言可用，幸异其礼；不可用，罢之，无令但索长安米。
上大笑，因使待诏金马门，稍得亲近。
translation: 
After a long time, Dongfang Shuo once coaxed the dwarf who guarded the royal horse pen and said: The emperor thinks that you people are of no use to the court. Of course, you cannot keep up with others in farming. You are an official above the people and cannot manage civil affairs. You are not qualified to fight with soldiers when you join the army. You are of no use to the country. You will only waste food and clothing. Now the emperor wants to kill you all.
The dwarfs were very frightened and cried.
Dongfang Shuo instigated them and said: The emperor is about to pass by here, you must kowtow and apologize.
After meeting for a while, they heard that the emperor was passing by, and the dwarfs all knelt on the ground and kowtowed in tears. The emperor asked: Why are you doing this?
The dwarfs replied: Dongfang Shuo said that the emperor wants to kill us all.
The emperor knew that Dongfang Shuohuahua had a lot of intestines, so he summoned Dongfang Shuo and asked him: Why did you threaten those dwarfs?
Dongfang Shuo replied: My minister Dongfang Shuo will say it even when he is alive, and he will say it even after he is dead.
The dwarf is more than three feet tall and his salary is two hundred and forty yuan for a bag of millet.
The minister Dongfang Shuo is more than nine feet tall, and his salary is a bag of millet, worth two hundred and forty yuan.
The dwarf was starving to death, and his minister Dongfang Shuo was starving to death.
If my words can be accepted, I hope you will change your etiquette towards me; if not, please let me go home and don't let me eat rice from Chang'an in vain.
Emperor Wu laughed when he heard this, so he asked Dongfang Shuo to wait for Shao Jin Mamen, and gradually gained the emperor's closeness.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
上尝使诸数家射覆，置守宫盂下，射之，皆不能中。朔自赞曰： 臣尝受《易》，请射之。
乃别蓍布卦而对曰： 臣以为龙又无角，谓之为蛇又有足，跂跂脉脉善缘壁，是非守宫即蜥蜴。
上曰： 善。
赐帛十匹。
复使射他物，连中，辄赐帛。
时，有幸倡郭舍人，滑稽不穷，常侍左右，曰： 朔狂，幸中耳，非至数也。
臣愿令朔复射，朔中之，臣榜百，不能中，臣赐帛。
乃覆树上寄生，令朔射之。朔曰： 是寠薮也。
舍人曰： 果知朔不能中也。
朔曰： 生肉为脍，干肉为脯；著树为寄生，盆下为寠薮。
上令倡监榜舍人，舍人不胜痛，呼謈。
朔笑之曰： 咄！口无毛，声謷謷，尻益高。
舍人恚曰： 朔擅诋欺天子从官，当弃市。
上问朔： 何故诋之？
对曰： 臣非敢诋之，乃与为隐耳。 上曰： 隐云何？
朔曰： 夫口无毛者，狗窦也；声謷謷者，鸟哺鷇也；尻益高者，鹤俯啄也。
舍人不服，因曰： 臣愿复问朔隐语，不知，亦当榜。
即妄为谐语曰： 令壶龃，老柏涂，伊优亚，狋吽牙。
何谓也？
朔曰： 令者，命也。
壶者，所以盛也。
龃者，齿不正也。
老者，人所敬也。
柏者，鬼之廷也。
涂者，渐洳径也。
伊优亚者，辞未定也。
狋吽牙者，两犬争也。
舍人所问，朔应声辄对，变诈锋出，莫能穷者，左右大惊。
上以朔为常侍郎，遂得爱幸。
translation: 
Emperor Wu once asked some magicians who were good at divination to cover the gecko under a basin and asked them to guess what it was, but they couldn't guess it. Dongfang Shuo introduced himself and said: I once studied "Yi", please allow me to guess what it is.
So he arranged the yarrow into various hexagrams and replied: I think it is a dragon without horns, but I think it is a snake with legs, its limbs are connected by pulses, and it is good at climbing walls. This thing is either a gecko or a lizard.
The emperor said: You guessed it right.
Give him ten pieces of silk.
He was also asked to guess other things, and he guessed correctly every time. He was given silk every time.
At that time, there was a favored actor Guo Sheren in the palace. He was very funny and often accompanied Emperor Wu. He said: Dongfang Shuo is too crazy. It was just a lucky guess. There is no real magic.
I hope to let Dongfang Shuo guess again. If he guesses correctly, he will give me a hundred lashes; if he guesses incorrectly, he will give me silk.
So he put the parasitic thing growing on the tree under the pot and asked Dongfang Shuo to guess what it was. Dongfang Shuo said: It is Baosou.
Guo Sheren said: I really know that Dongfang Shuo will not guess correctly.
Dongfang Shuo said: Raw meat is called 荍, dried meat is called preserved meat, attached to a tree is called parasite, and covered under a basin is called dou sau.
The emperor ordered Chang Jian to whip Guo Sheren. Guo Sheren was in unbearable pain and howled loudly.
Dongfang Shuo laughed at him and said: Hey, there is no hair on his mouth, he is screaming, and his butt is getting higher and higher.
Guo Sheren said angrily: Dongfang Shuo dared to slander and insult the emperor's attendants. He should be sentenced to death for abandoning the market.
The emperor asked Dongfang Shuo: Why did you slander and insult him?
Dongfang Shuo replied: I dare not slander or insult him, I just told him a riddle. The emperor asked: What riddle are you talking about?
Dongfang Shuo said: The hairless mouth is a dog hole; the cry is the cry of a mother bird when feeding her chicks; the buttocks are getting higher and higher, which is the look of a crane lowering its head to peck at food.
Guo Sheren was not convinced and said, "I hope to ask Dongfang Shuo a riddle as well. If he doesn't know it, he should also be whipped."
He immediately made up a riddle with homophonic sounds and said: Ling Huhan, Lao Botu, Yiyouya, Biaopanya.
What is said?
Dongfang Shuo said: Ling is an order.
Pots are used to hold things.
It means the teeth are not straight.
Lao is an old man that everyone respects.
Bai is the palace of ghosts.
Painting is a road that is soaked.
Iyoya's words were slurred.
Biaopanya is a fight between two dogs.
Dongfang Shuo answered Guo She's riddles in the world, with many clever and clever changes. No riddle could stump him, and everyone present was very surprised.
The emperor appointed Dongfang Shuo as the Chang Shilang, and he gained the favor and favor of Emperor Wu.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
久之，伏日，诏赐从官肉。
大官丞日晏下来，朔独拔剑割肉，谓其同官曰： 伏日当蚤归，请受赐。
即怀肉去。
大官奏之。
朔入，上曰： 昨赐肉，不待诏，以剑割肉而去之，何也？
朔免冠谢。
上曰： 先生起，自责也！
朔再拜曰： 朔来！
朔来！
受赐不待诏，何无礼也！
拔剑割肉，一何壮也！
割之不多，又何廉也！
归遗细君，又何仁也！
上笑曰： 使先生自责，乃反自誉！
复赐酒一石，肉百斤，归遗细君。
初，建元三年，微行始出，北至池阳，西至黄山，南猎长杨，东游宜春。
微行常用饮酎已。
translation: 
After a long time, on a doggy day, Emperor Wu ordered that meat be rewarded to the attendant officials.
The high official did not come to divide the meat until nightfall, so Dongfang Shuo drew his sword and cut the meat alone, saying to his colleagues: "I should go home early in the dog days of summer. Please allow me to accept the emperor's reward."
Then he wrapped the meat in his arms and left.
Daguancheng reported this matter to the emperor.
When Dongfang Shuo entered the palace, Emperor Wu said: Yesterday, you gave me meat, but you cut the meat with your sword and left without waiting for the order to be issued. Why is this?
Dongfang Shuo took off his hat and knelt down to apologize.
The emperor said: Sir, stand up and blame yourself.
Dongfang Shuo paid his respects again and said: Dongfang Shuo!
Dongfang Shuo!
How rude to accept a reward without waiting for the order to be issued!
Drawing a sword to cut flesh, how heroic!
Not much meat is cut, but how honest it is!
How kind it is to go home and give meat to your wife to eat!
The emperor smiled and said: Mr. Jean blames himself, but he actually praises himself!
He also gave him a stone of wine and a hundred catties of meat and asked him to go home and give them to his wife.
At the beginning, in the third year of Jianyuan, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty began to travel incognito, traveling to Chiyang Palace in the north, Huangshan Palace in the west, Changyang Palace in the south, and Yichun Palace in the east.
Traveling in private is often done every year when the new wine is brewed and drank in the ancestral temple.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
八九月中，与侍中常侍武骑及待诏陇西北地良家子能骑射者期诸殿门，故有 期门 之号自此始。
微行以夜漏下十刻乃出，常称平阳侯。
旦明，入山下驰射鹿豕狐兔，手格熊罴，驰骛禾稼稻粳之地。民皆号呼骂詈，相聚会，自言鄠杜令。
令往，欲谒平阳侯，诸骑欲击鞭之。
令大怒。使吏呵止，猎者数骑见留，乃示以乘舆物，久之乃得去。
时夜出夕还，后赍五日粮，会朝长信官，上大欢乐之。
是后，南山下乃知微行数出也，然尚迫于太后，未敢远出。
丞相御史知指，乃使右辅都尉徼循长杨以东，右内史发小民共待会所。
后乃私置更衣，从宣曲以南十二所，中休更衣，投宿诸宫，长杨、五柞、倍阳、宣曲尤幸。
于是上以为道远劳苦，又为百姓所患，乃使太中大夫吾丘寿王与待诏能用算者二人，举籍阿城以南，盩厔以东，宜春以西，提封顷亩，乃其贾直，欲除以为上林苑，属之南山。
又诏中尉、左右内史表属县草田，欲以偿鄠杜之民。
吾丘寿王奏事，上大说称善。
时朔在傍，进谏曰：
translation: 
In August and September, the emperor agreed to wait at the gate of the palace with his attendants, regular attendants, and martial cavalry, as well as the good men from Longxi County and Beidi County in Shaoguan who were good at riding and shooting. Therefore, the title of "Qimen" came from this time.
When Emperor Wu traveled incognito, he would wait ten quarters at night before setting off, often pretending to be Cao Shou, Marquis of Pingyang.
At dawn the next day, when they arrived at the foot of Zhongnan Mountain, they shot deer, pigs, foxes and rabbits, or struck bears with their bare hands, running through the rice fields. The farmers shouted and cursed loudly, gathered together, and complained to the magistrates of Yuxian and Duxian counties.
The county magistrate went to the hunting place and asked to see Pingyang Hou. The attendants on horseback wanted to whip the magistrate.
The county magistrate was furious, and his subordinates scolded and stopped him. Several horsemen who were hunting were detained, so they took out the emperor's royal belongings and struggled for a long time before they were able to leave.
At the beginning, the emperor left the palace late at night and returned the next evening. Later, he carried food for five days. He did not return to the capital until the fifth day when it was time to go to Changxin Palace to see the Queen Mother.
Emperor Wu liked this kind of hunting in disguise very much. After that, the people at the foot of Zhongnan Mountain learned that the emperor often went hunting incognito, but Emperor Wu was still under pressure from the Queen Mother and did not dare to travel far.
The Prime Minister and Censor knew the emperor's intentions, so he sent Lieutenant You Fu to patrol east of Changyang Palace, and ordered You Neishi to recruit civilians and go to the place where the emperor hunted to wait for orders.
Later, dressing rooms were privately set up for the emperor, and palace staff were also assigned. A total of twelve dressing rooms were set up from the south of Xuanqu Palace for the emperor to rest and change during the day, and to stay in various palaces at night. Emperor Wu often visited Changyang, Wuzha, Beiyang, Xuanqu and other palaces.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty thought that the journey was long and hard and hated by the people, so he sent King Wuqiu Shou, the Taizhong doctor, and two people who knew arithmetic to collect the area south of Acheng, Yanliyishu, and west of Yichun Palace. The total number of acres of farmland and the converted value of the farmland were compiled into a book. He planned to build Shanglin Garden here to connect it with Zhongnan Mountain.
Emperor Wu also ordered the lieutenants and internal historians to set aside wasteland belonging to the county, hoping to compensate the farmers in Guo and Du counties.
King Wuqiu Shou reported what he had done to the emperor. The emperor was overjoyed and praised him for a job well done.
At that time Dongfang Shuo was nearby and admonished the emperor:


Chunk 5: 
original: 
臣闻谦逊静悫，天表之应，应之以福；骄溢靡丽，天表之应，应之以异。
今陛下累郎台，恐其不高也；弋猎之处，恐其不广也。
如天不为变，则三辅之地尽可以为苑，何必盩厔、鄠、杜乎！
奢侈越制，天为之变，上林虽小，臣尚以为大也。
夫南山，天下之阻也，南有江、淮，北有河、渭，其地从汧、陇以东，商、雒以西，厥壤肥饶。
汉兴，去三河之地，止霸、产以西，都泾、渭之南，此所谓天下陆海之地，秦之所以虏西戎兼山东者也。
其山出玉石，金、银、铜、铁，豫章、檀、柘，异类之物，不可胜原，此百工所取给，万民所卬足也。
translation: 
I heard that if a man is humble, quiet, and prudent, heaven will show retribution and repay him with blessings; if a man is arrogant and extravagant, heaven will also show retribution and repay him with disasters.
Now that your majesty is building a terrace and gallery, you are worried that it will not be high enough; your hunting area will not be wide enough.
If heaven does not bring disaster, then the three auxiliary areas can be used as His Majesty's gardens. Why limit it to Gaixia, E, Du and other places?
Luxury went beyond etiquette, and heaven brought disasters. Although Shanglin Garden was small, I thought it was too big.
Zhongnan Mountain is a dangerous place in the world, with the Yangtze River and Huaihe River to the south, and the Yellow River and Weishui River to the north. This place stretches from Yanshui and Longshan to the west of Shang and Luo counties. The land is fertile and the products are rich.
When the Han Dynasty was established, he left Sanhe and lived west of Ba River and Tong River. His capital was Chang'an, south of Jing River and Wei River. This area is called Tianxia Mountain! The land of land and sea is a land with abundant products. The reason why Qin was able to surrender to Xirong and annex the six kingdoms of Shandong was because it occupied this land.
This mountain produces jade, gold, silver, copper, iron and other minerals, as well as Yuzhang, sandalwood, eucalyptus and other precious woods. It is a strange and strange thing, and its origin cannot be explored. This mountain contains the raw materials for hundreds of industries, and it is a treasure land on which all peoples depend for prosperity.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
又有粳稻、梨、栗、桑、麻、竹箭之饶，土宜姜芋，水多蛙鱼，贫者得以人给家足，无饥寒之忧。
故酆、镐之间号为土膏，其贾亩一金。
今规以为苑，绝陂池水泽之利，而取民膏腴之地，上乏国家之用，下夺农桑之业，弃成功，就败事，损耗五谷，是其不可一也。
且盛荆棘之林，而长养麋鹿，广狐兔之苑，大虎狼之虚，又坏人冢墓，发人室庐，令幼弱怀土而思，耆老泣涕而悲，是其不可二也。
斥而营之，垣而囿之，骑驰东西，车骛南北，又有深沟大渠，夫一日之乐不足以危无堤之舆，是其不可三也。
故务苑囿之大，不恤农时，非所以强国富人也。
translation: 
It is also rich in japonica rice, pears, chestnuts, mulberries, hemp, and bamboo shoots. The soil is suitable for growing ginger and taro, and the water is rich in frogs and fish. The poor people rely on these to have enough food and clothing, and do not have to worry about hunger or cold.
Therefore, the land between Feng and Dy is known as fertile soil, and the price of this land is one pound of gold per mu.
Now it is classified as a garden, cutting off the benefits of Pichi water and swamp, and occupying the fertile land of farmers, starving the country of finances, and depriving the people of the farming and mulberry industry that they rely on to make a living. Abandoning success will lead to failure and reduce food income. This is the first reason why Shanglin Garden cannot be built.
Moreover, it makes the thorn jungle dense and prosperous to support the growth of elk, expands the garden where foxes and rabbits live, expands the mounds where tigers and wolves roam, destroys people's tombs and cemeteries, demolishes people's homes and houses, makes the young and weak homesick, and the elderly weep and mourn. This is the second reason why forest gardens cannot be built.
Expanding the land for construction, building walls for gardens, riding horses to the east and west, driving cars to the north and south, and having deep ditches and canals, a day of hunting in the fields will not endanger the emperor's infinite wealth. This is the third reason why Shanglin Garden cannot be built.
Therefore, ensuring that the garden is vast and not caring about the farming season is not a way to strengthen the country and enrich the people.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
夫殷作九市之宫而诸侯畔，灵王起章华之台而楚民散，秦兴阿房之殿而天下乱。
粪土愚臣，忘生触死，逆盛意，犯隆指，罪当万死，不胜大愿，愿陈《泰阶六符》，以观天变，不可不省。
是日因奏《泰阶》之事，上乃拜朔为太中大夫给事中，赐黄金百斤。
然遂起上林苑，如寿王所奏云。
久之，隆虑公主子昭平君尚帝女夷安公主，隆虑主病困，以金千斤、钱千万为昭平君豫赎死罪，上许之。
隆虑主卒，昭平君日骄，醉杀主傅，狱系内宫。
以公主子，廷尉上请请论。左右人人为言： 前又入赎，陛下许之。
上曰： 吾弟老有是一子，死以属我。 于是为之垂涕叹息良久，曰： 法令者，先帝所造也，用弟故而诬先帝之法，吾何面目入高庙乎！
translation: 
King Zhou of Yin built the Palace of Nine Municipalities, so the princes rebelled; King Ling of Chu built Zhanghua Terrace, so the people of Chu were dispersed; Emperor Qin Shihuang built Afang Palace, so the world was in chaos.
Ignorant ministers who are as filthy as dirt, forgetting their lives and violating the death penalty, disobeying the emperor's great wishes and grand edicts, deserve to be punished by death, but they can't fulfill their great wishes. I hope Chen will read the "Tai Jie Six Talisman Sutra" and use it to observe the changes in the celestial phenomena. This must be observed.
On this day, because of the "Taijie Six Talisman Sutra", Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty made Dongfang Shuo the Taizhong doctor and rewarded Shizhong with one hundred catties of gold.
However, Emperor Wu still built Shanglin Garden according to the plan submitted by King Wuqiu Shou.
After a long time, Princess Longlu's son Zhaopingjun married Princess Yi'an, the daughter of Emperor Wu of the Yahan Dynasty. When Princess Longli was critically ill, she offered a thousand catties of gold and ten million yuan to redeem Lord Zhaoping from his death penalty in advance, and Emperor Wu agreed to her request.
After the death of Princess Longli, Lord Zhaoping became increasingly arrogant. He got drunk and killed Princess Yi'an's nanny. He was arrested and imprisoned in the inner palace.
Because he was the son of Princess Longlu, Tingwei asked the emperor for instructions to convict Zhaoping Jun. The ministers on the left and right interceded for Zhaoping Jun: Princess Longlu paid a large sum of money to atone for his death penalty before, and your Majesty approved Princess Longlu's request.
Emperor Wu said: My sister only had such a son in her old age, and she entrusted him to me before she died. So she shed tears and sighed about Lord Zhaoping. After a long time, he said: The law was made by the late emperor. If I violate the law of the late emperor out of sympathy for my sister, how can I have the dignity to enter the temple of Emperor Gao!


Chunk 8: 
original: 
又下负万民。
乃可其奏，哀不能自止，左右尽悲。
朔前上寿，曰： 臣闻圣王为政，赏不避仇雠，诛不择骨肉。
《书》曰： 不偏不党，王道荡荡。 此二者，五帝所重，三王所难也。
陛下行之，是以四海之内元元之民各得其所，天下幸甚！
臣朔奉觞，昧死再拜上万岁寿。
上乃起，入省中，夕时召让朔，曰： 传曰 时然后言，人不厌其言 。今先生上寿，时乎？
朔免冠顿首曰： 臣闻乐太盛则阳溢，哀太盛则阴损，阴阳变则心气动，心气动则精神散，精神散而邪气及。
销忧者莫若酒，臣朔所以上寿者，明陛下正而不阿，因以止哀也。
愚不知忌讳，当死。
translation: 
Besides, I feel sorry for the people.
So he approved Tingwei's petition to convict Zhaohujun. Emperor Wu couldn't stop mourning, and everyone around him was very sad.
However, Shu Fangshuo stepped forward to wish Emperor Wu a happy birthday and said: I heard that a wise king is in power and does not avoid his enemies in giving rewards and does not choose whether he is his or her own flesh and blood.
"Shangshu" says: Don't show favoritism and don't be partial, and the king's way is open and unobstructed. These two are highly respected by the five emperors, and even the three kings find it difficult to achieve.
Your Majesty has done this, so all the people in the four seas can find their own place, and the world is very lucky!
The minister Dongfang Shuo raised his glass and made a toast, risking his life to bow again and wish the emperor long live.
Emperor Wu actually stood up and went back to the palace. In the evening, he summoned Dongfang Shuo and scolded him: "The ancient book says that you should speak only when it is time to speak. Others are not tired of his words. Is it time for you to wish me a birthday today?"
Dongfang Shuo took off his hat and kowtowed and said: I have heard that excessive happiness will lead to excessive yang energy, excessive sadness will lead to loss of yin energy, and variations in yin and yang will cause restless heart energy. Restless heart energy will lead to mental disorder, and mental disorder will allow evil spirits to take advantage of the weakness.
Nothing can relieve worries like wine. The reason why my minister Dongfang Shuo wishes His Majesty a birthday is to show that His Majesty is upright and upright, so I use wine to soothe His Majesty's sorrow.
I am ignorant and don’t know taboos, so I deserve to die.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
先是，朔尝醉入殿中，小遗殿上，劾不敬。有诏免为庶人，待诏宦者署。因此对复为中郎，赐帛百匹。
初，帝姑馆陶公主号窦太主，堂邑侯陈午尚之。
午死，主寡居，年五十余矣，近幸董偃。
始偃与母以卖珠为事，偃年十三，随母出入主家。
左右言其姣好，主召见，曰； 吾为母养之。
因留第中，教书计相马御射，颇读传记。
至年十八而冠，出则执辔，入则侍内。
为人温柔爱人，以主故，诸公接之，名称城中，号曰董君。
主因推令散财交士，令中府曰： 董君所发，一日金满百斤，钱满百万，帛满千匹，乃白之。
安陵爰叔者，爰盎兄子也，与偃善，谓偃曰： 足下私侍汉主，挟不测之罪，将欲安处乎？
偃惧曰： 忧之久矣，不知所以。
translation: 
Prior to this, Dongfang Shuo had entered the palace drunk and urinated in the palace, and was impeached for the crime of disrespect. Emperor Wu issued an edict to demote him to a commoner and wait for the eunuch in the eunuch's office. Because of this conversation with the emperor, he was appointed as Zhonglang and given a hundred pieces of silk.
At the beginning, Princess Guantao, the aunt of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, was known as Mrs. Dou, and Chen Wu, the Marquis of Tangyi, married her.
After Chen Wu's death, the Grand Master became a widow. He was over fifty years old, but he was close to and favored a young man named Dong Yan.
At first, Dong Yan and his mother made a living by selling pearls. Dong Yan was thirteen years old at the time and often accompanied his mother to the home of Taizu Dou.
Empress Dowager Dou's attendants all praised Dong Yan's handsomeness. Empress Dowager Dou summoned Dong Yan's mother and son and said to Dong Yan's mother, "I will raise this child for you."
So he stayed in the mansion and taught him writing, arithmetic, horsemanship, driving, archery and other skills, and also let him read some biographical books.
When Dong Yan reached the age of eighteen, he was crowned. He would drive the master when he went out, and he would serve him when the master returned home.
Dong Yan has a gentle and loving temperament. Because Taishu Bao doted on him, many princes welcomed him, and he became famous in Chang'an City, known as Dong Jun.
Grand Master Bao took the opportunity to recommend him and asked him to spread his wealth and make friends with scholars. He ordered the Zhongfu official in charge of the gold and silk in the palace to say: Dong Jun will report to me only when the gold and silk he spent in a day exceeds one hundred catties, the money reaches one million, and the silk exceeds one thousand pieces.
Uncle Yuan, a native of Anling County, was the son of Yuan Ang's brother and was close to Dong Yan. He said to Dong Yan: You serve Taizu Dou privately and are hiding unpredictable disasters. How do you want to find peace with yourself?
Dong Yan said fearfully: I have been worried about this for a long time, and I don't know how to get rid of it.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
爰叔曰： 顾城庙远无宿宫，又有萩竹籍田，足下何不白主献长门园？
此上所欲也。
如是，上知计出于足下也，则安枕而卧，长无惨怛之忧。
久之不然，上且请之，于足下何如？
偃顿首曰： 敬奉教。
入言之主，主立奏书献之。
上大说，更名窦大主园为长门宫。
主大喜，使偃以黄金百斤为爰叔寿。
叔因是为董君画求见上之策，令主称疾不朝。
上往临疾，问所欲，主辞谢曰： 妾幸蒙陛下厚恩，先帝遗德，奉朝请之礼，备臣妾之仪，列为公主，赏赐邑入，隆天重地，死无以塞责。
translation: 
Uncle Yuan said: The Gucheng Temple is far away from Chang'an and there is no palace for the emperor to live. It is surrounded by bamboo and catalpa trees for the emperor to play, and it also has the emperor's home fields. The emperor wants to patrol the crops in person. Why don't you tell the emperor to dedicate Changmen Garden to the emperor?
It was exactly where the emperor wanted it to be.
In this way, the emperor knows that the idea was yours, and you can sleep peacefully without fear or sorrow.
If you don't do this for a long time, the emperor will ask for Changmen Garden. What will happen to you?
Dong Yan thanked me and said: I appreciate your teachings.
Therefore, Dong Yan went into the palace to report this plan to the Grand Master, and Grand Master Dou immediately wrote a letter dedicating Changmen Garden to Emperor Wu.
The emperor was overjoyed and renamed Baotaizhu's Changmen Garden to Changmen Palace.
The Grand Master was also very happy and asked Dong Yan to send a hundred catties of gold to Uncle Yuan to celebrate his birthday.
Therefore, Uncle Yuan planned a way for Dong Yan to seek an audience with the emperor, and asked Taishu Bao to pretend to be ill and unable to meet the emperor.
Emperor Wu personally went to Taizu Dou's mansion to check on his condition and asked Taizu what he wanted. Taizu declined and said: "I am fortunate to have received your majesty's kindness and the kindness of the late emperor. I am able to participate in the court ceremony, perform the courtesy of a monarch and a minister, and be listed as a princess. I will be rewarded with a fief for income and rent. My kindness is so great that even death cannot make up for the guilt in my heart."


Chunk 11: 
original: 
一日卒有不胜洒扫之职，先狗马填沟壑，窃有所恨，不胜大愿，愿陛下时忘万事，养精游神，从中掖庭回舆，枉路临妾山林，得献觞上寿，娱乐左右。
如是而死，何恨之有！ 上曰： 主何忧？
幸得愈。
恐群臣从官多，大为主费。
上还，有顷，主疾愈，起谒，上以钱千万从主饮。
后数日，上临山林，主自执宰敝膝，道入登阶就坐。
坐未定，上曰： 愿谒主人翁。
主乃下殿，去簪珥，徒跣顿首谢曰： 妾无状，负陛下，身当伏诛。
陛下不致之法，顿首死罪。
有诏谢。
主簪履起，之东厢自引董君。
translation: 
If one day I am suddenly unable to fulfill my duties in serving the Emperor, and I have to fill the gap first, I feel regretful privately that I cannot fulfill my wish to repay His Majesty. I hope that Your Majesty can sometimes forget about government affairs, recuperate his spirit, and walk a few more steps to visit my mansion when returning from the courtyard, so that I can offer wine to His Majesty on his birthday and be by your side to make you happy.
If you can do this, even if you are dead, what regrets will there be! The emperor said: What is your Majesty worried about?
Hope you recover soon.
I'm worried that there will be too many ministers and attendants accompanying you, which will cost you too much.
After Emperor Wu finished speaking, he returned to the palace. Soon, the Taishu recovered from his illness and went to court to see the emperor. The Emperor spent 10 million yuan to buy a banquet and drink with the Taishu.
A few days later, Emperor Wu came to the Grand Master's mansion. The Grand Master put on a cook's apron and personally led Emperor Wu into the mansion. He climbed up the steps and invited Emperor Wu to sit down in the hall.
Before he could sit down, Emperor Wu said: I hope to meet the protagonist.
The Grand Master hurriedly went down to the palace, took off the hairpin and earrings, kowtowed with bare feet and apologized, saying: "I have no face to see others, I have failed Your Majesty, and I have committed a capital crime."
Your Majesty will not accuse me of any crime, but I will kowtow to plead guilty.
Emperor Wu issued an edict to absolve the Grand Master of his crime.
The Grand Master put on the hairpin and shoes, stood up, and went to the Shuxiang Room to lead Dong Yan out.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
董君绿帻傅韝，随主前，伏殿下。
主乃赞： 馆陶公主胞人臣偃昧死再拜谒。
因叩头谢，上为之起。
有诏赐衣冠上。
偃起，走就衣冠。
主自奉食进觞。
当是时，董君见尊不名，称为 主人翁 ，饮大欢乐。
主乃请赐将军、列侯、从官金钱杂缯各有数。于是董君贵宠，天下莫不闻。
郡国狗马蹴鞠剑客辐凑董氏。
常从游戏北宫，驰逐平乐，观鸡鞠之会，角狗马之足，上大欢乐之。
于是上为窦太主置酒宣室，使谒者引内董君。
是时，朔陛戟殿下，辟戟而前曰： 董偃有斩罪三，安得入乎？
上曰： 何谓也？
朔曰： 偃以人臣私侍公主，其罪一也。
translation: 
Dong Yan, wearing the green scarf used by servants to wrap their heads and sleeves, followed the Grand Master to the front of the palace and fell prostrate to the ground.
The Grand Master then introduced: Dong Yan, the cook of Princess Guantao, risked his life to pay homage to the Emperor.
Dong Yan took the opportunity to kowtow and plead guilty, and the emperor asked him to get up.
The imperial edict gave him clothes and hats to allow him to go to the palace.
Dong Yan got up, went to change clothes and sit down.
The Grand Master personally presented food and toasts to Emperor Wu.
At this time, although Dong Yan was respected but without a title, he was called the "master". The king and his ministers drank happily and were extremely happy.
The Grand Master then presented a large amount of gold, money, and various colored silks, and asked Emperor Wu to give them to the generals, princes, and attendant officials. From then on, Dong Yan became more prominent and favored, and everyone in the world knew about him.
Dog racing, horse racing, football, and swordsmen from various counties gathered around Dong Yan.
Dong Yan often followed Emperor Wu to play games in Beigong, go to Shanglin Garden to enjoy horse racing and hunting, and watch cockfighting, football, dog racing, horse racing and other games. The emperor liked these entertainments very much.
So the emperor held a banquet in the Xuan room to entertain Mrs. Dou, and sent an audience to introduce Dong Yan into the palace.
At this time, Dongfang Shuo was guarding under the palace steps with his halberd. He put down his halberd and stepped forward and said to Emperor Wu: "Dong Yan has committed three crimes that deserve to be beheaded. How can he be allowed to enter the palace?"
The emperor said: What is the crime?
Dongfang Shuo said: As a subject of the emperor, Dong Yan served the princess privately. This was the first crime.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
败男女之化，而乱婚姻之礼，伤王制，其罪二也。
陛下富于春秋，方积思于《六经》，留神于王事，驰骛于唐、虞，折节于三代，偃不遵经劝学，反以靡丽为右，奢侈为务，尽狗马之乐，极耳目之欲，行邪枉之道，径淫辟之路，是乃国家之大贼，人主之大蜮。
偃为淫首，其罪三也。
昔伯姬燔而诸侯惮，奈何乎陛下？
上默然不应良久，曰： 吾业以设饮，后而自改。
朔曰： 不可。
夫宣室者，先帝之正处也，非法度之政不得入焉。
故淫乱之渐，其变为篡，是以竖貂为淫而易牙作患，庆父死而鲁国全，管、蔡诛而周室安。
上曰： 善。
有诏止，更置酒北宫，引董君从东司马门。
东司马门更名东交门。
赐朔黄金三十斤。
董君之宠由是日衰，至年三十而终。
后数岁，窦太主卒，与董君会葬于霸陵。
translation: 
Corrupting the moral etiquette between men and women, disrupting the marriage ceremony, and destroying the court system are the second crimes.
Your Majesty is in the prime of life and is now devoted to studying the Six Classics, paying attention to state affairs, following the prosperous times of Tang and Yu, and admiring the virtuous monarchs of Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties. Dong Yan did not follow the advice and study of the classics. Instead, he admired extravagant beauty, pursued luxury, indulged in sensual pleasures, and walked the path of evil and lewdness. This man was a great thief of the country and a ghost who deceived the emperor.
Dong Yan was the culprit of sexual immorality, and this was his third crime.
Once upon a time, Song Gongji encountered a fire and was burned to death because she abided by etiquette and waited for her nanny. She was respected by the princes. What should she do? His Majesty.
Emperor Wu remained silent for a long time and then said: I have already arranged a banquet and will correct it later.
Dongfang Shuo said: No.
The Xuanshi was the main palace of the late emperor, and political affairs other than those where laws were negotiated could not be entered.
Because fornication would gradually turn into a catastrophe of usurpation, Shu Diao behaved promiscuously in the Spring and Autumn Period and colluded with Yi Ya to cause chaos. Only after the death of Qing's father did the state of Lu survive, and only after Guan Shu and Cai Shu were executed did the Western Zhou royal family enjoy peace.
Emperor Wu said: OK.
An edict was issued to stop holding banquets in the Xuanshi room, and banquets were held in the Beigong instead, and Dong Yan was led into the palace from Shusimamen.
For this reason, Shusimamen was renamed Cambodian Jiaomen.
Reward Dongfang Shuo with thirty kilograms of gold.
董偃的尊宠从此曰衰，活到三十岁就死了。
A few years later, Taizu Dou also died and was buried with Dong Yan in Ba Ling.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
是后，公主贵人多逾礼制，自董偃始。
时，天下侈靡趋末，百姓多离农亩。
上从容问朔： 吾欲化民，岂有道乎？
朔对曰： 尧、舜、禹、汤、文、武、成、康上古之事，经历数千载，尚难言也，臣不敢陈。
愿近述孝文皇帝之时，当世耆老皆闻见之。
贵为天子，富有四海，身衣弋纟弟，足履革舄，以韦带剑，莞蒲为席，兵木无刃，衣缊无文，集上书囊以为殿帷；以道德为丽，以仁义为准。
于是天下望风成俗，昭然化之。
translation: 
From then on, many princesses and nobles went beyond etiquette and rules, starting with Dong Yan.
At that time, the world advocated luxury and beauty, and rushed to engage in industry and commerce.
Farmers are leaving their fields. Emperor Wu casually asked Dongfang Shuo during a casual chat: I want to educate the people. Is there any way?
Dongfang Shuo replied: The ancient events of Yao, Shun, Yu, Tang, King Wen, King Wu, King Cheng, and King Kang have gone through almost thousands of years. It is difficult to explain clearly, and I dare not state it.
I would like to talk about what happened during the reign of Emperor Xiaowen in modern times. This is something that all the elders alive today know.
Emperor Wen was the emperor and was rich all over the world, but he wore black coarse cloth clothes, shoes made of rawhide, a sword hung on a cowhide without ornaments, and a straw mat made of cotton cattail. His weapons looked like wooden ones without sharp edges, his winter clothes had no literary talent, and his wrappers were made of random catkins. The green cloth bags containing memorials were collected and sewn into palace curtains. Emperor Wen regarded noble morality as beauty and benevolence and righteousness as the criterion.
As a result, everyone in the world looked up to his style, formed honest customs, and clearly enlightened the people.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
今陛下以城中为小，图起建章，左凤阙，右神明，号称千门万户；木土衣绮绣，狗马被缋罽；宫人簪玳瑁，垂珠玑；设戏车，教驰逐，饰文采，丛珍怪；撞万石之钟，击雷霆之鼓，作俳优，舞郑女。
上为淫侈如此，而欲使民独不奢侈失农，事之难者也。
陛下诚能用臣朔之计，推甲乙之帐燔之于四通之衢，却走马示不复用，则尧、舜之隆宜可与比治矣。《易》曰： 正其本，万事理；失之毫厘，差以千里。
愿陛下留意察之。
朔虽诙笑，然时观察颜色，直言切谏，上常用之。
自公卿在位，朔皆敖弄，无所为屈。
上以朔口谐辞给，好作问之。
尝问朔曰： 先生视朕何如主也？
朔对曰： 自唐、虞之隆，成、康之际，未足以谕当世。
臣伏观陛下功德，陈五帝之上，在三王之右。
translation: 
Now His Majesty feels that the space in Chang'an City is small, so he built the Jianzhang Palace outside the city. There is a Phoenix Tower on the left and a Divine Terrace on the right. It is said to be home to thousands of households. The earthworks in the palace are wrapped in brocade silk, and the dogs and horses are covered with colorful blankets. The heads of the palace people are hairpins. Turtles, wearing pearls; setting up toy carts, advocating the joy of hunting, pursuing the brilliance of decoration, and collecting rare and rare objects; ringing a huge bell weighing ten thousand stones, beating a drum that sounds like thunder, advocating excellence in entertainment, and Zheng Nu dancing.
The emperor is so extravagant and extravagant, but he wants the people not to be extravagant and not abandon farming and doing business. This is something difficult to achieve.
If your majesty can really take the advice of your minister Dongfang Shuo, take down many gorgeous curtains, burn them on the streets connected in all directions, and abandon those good galloping horses to show that they will no longer be ridden, then only the heyday of Yao and Shun can rival your majesty's achievements. "The Book of Changes" says: Only by correcting the origin of things can everything be in order; if you miss the smallest detail, the difference will be thousands of miles.
I hope your Majesty will pay attention to the above matters.
Although Dongfang Shuo was humorous and funny, he always observed the emperor's face and spoke out when appropriate. Emperor Wu often adopted his opinions.
From the ministers to the ministers in office, Dongfang Shuo dared to despise and ridicule, and there was no one he was willing to submit to.
Because Dongfang Shuo was witty and quick-tongued, the emperor liked to ask Dongfang Shuo questions deliberately.
Emperor Wu once asked Dongfang Shuo: Sir, what kind of monarch do you think I am?
Dongfang Shuo replied: From the prosperous times of Tang and Yu to the eras of King Cheng and King Kang of Zhou, it can be compared to the current world.
I think your majesty’s merits and virtues can be ranked above those of the Five Emperors and Three Kings.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
非若此而已，诚得天下贤士，公卿在位咸得其人矣。
譬若以周、邵为丞相，孔丘为御史大夫，太公为将军，毕公高拾遗于后，弁严子为卫尉，皋陶为大理，后稷为司农，伊尹为少府，子赣使外国，颜、闵为博士，子夏为太常，益为右扶风，季路为执金吾，契为鸿胪，龙逢为宗正，伯夷为京兆，管仲为冯翊，鲁般为将作，仲山甫为光禄，申伯为太仆，延陵季子为水衡，百里奚为典属国，柳下惠为大长秋，史鱼为司直，蘧伯玉为太傅，孔父为詹事，孙叔敖为诸侯相，子产为郡守，王庆忌为期门，夏育为鼎官，羿为旄头，宋万为式道侯。
上乃大笑。
是时，朝廷多贤材，上复问朔： 方今公孙丞相，皃大夫、董仲舒、夏侯始昌、司马相如、吾丘寿王、主父偃、朱买臣、严助、汲黯、胶仓、终军、严安、徐乐、司马迁之伦，皆辩知闳达，溢于文辞，先生自视，何与比哉？
translation: 
Not only that, as expected, the wise men in the world were truly obtained, and the ministers and officials in office all had qualified candidates.
For example, Zhou Gongdan and Shao Gongshi were the prime ministers, Confucius was the censor, Jiang Taigong was the general, Bi Gonggao was the Taishi, Bian Yanyu was the Weiwei, Gaotao was Dali, Houji was Simong, and Yi Yin was In the Shaofu, Zigong was sent as an envoy to foreign countries, Yan Hui and Min Ziqian were doctors, Zixia was Taichang, Yi was Youfufeng, Zilu was Zhijinwu, Qi was Dahonglu, Guanlongfeng was Zongzheng, Boyi was Jingzhaoyin, Guan Zhong was Zuo Feng Yi, Lu Ban was the general and great craftsman, Zhong Shanfu was the official of Guanglu, Shen Bo was the imperial servant, Yanling Jizi was the captain of Shuiheng, Baili Xi was the Dianguo, Liu Xiahui was the Da Changqiu, and Shi Yu was the The prime minister was Sizhi, Zang Boyu was the Taifu, Confucius was the Minister of Zhan, Sun Shuao was the Prime Minister of the princes, Zi Chan was the county governor, Wang Qingji was a minister, Xia Yu was a Dingguan, Yi was a Taoist minister, and Song Wan was a Shi Daohou.
Emperor Wu burst out laughing after hearing this.
At this time, there were a large number of capable people in the court, and the emperor asked Dongfang Shuo: Today, Prime Minister Gongsun Hong, Doctor Ni Kuan, Dong Zhongshu, Xiahou Shichang, Sima Xiangru, King Wuqiu Shou, Zhufu Yan, Zhu Maichen, Yan Zhu, Ji An, Jiaocang, Zhongjun, Yan An, Xu Le, Sima Qian, etc. are all eloquent, intelligent and eloquent. Sir, see for yourself, how can you compare with them?


Chunk 17: 
original: 
朔对曰： 臣观其臿齿牙，树颊胲，吐唇吻，擢项颐，结股脚，连脽尻，遗蛇其迹，行步偊旅，臣朔虽不肖，尚兼此数子者。
朔之进对澹辞，皆此类也。
武帝既招英俊，程其器能，用之如不及。
时方外事胡、越，内兴制度，国家多事，自公孙弘以下至司马迁，皆奉使方外，或为郡国守相至公卿，而朔尝至太中大夫，后常为郎，与枚皋、郭舍人俱在左右，诙啁而已。
久之，朔上书陈农战强国之计，因自讼独不得大官，欲求试用。
其言专商鞅、韩非之语也，指意放荡，颇复诙谐，辞数万言，终不见用。
朔因著论，设客难己，用位卑以自慰谕。
其辞曰：
客难东方朔曰： 苏秦、张仪一当万乘之主，而都卿相之位，泽及后世。
今子大夫修先王之术，慕圣人之义，讽诵《诗》、《书》、百家之言，不可胜数，著于竹帛，唇腐齿落，服膺而不释，好学乐道之效，明白甚矣；自以智能海内无双，则可谓博闻辩智矣。
translation: 
Dongfang Shuo replied: "I see that they have shovel teeth, tree bark gills, turned lips, long necks, knotted feet, even trousers, a meandering and sloping walk, and a bent body. Although Dongfang Shuo is not very good, he still has the advantages of these people."
Dongfang Shuo's speeches and responses are all like this.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty had recruited outstanding men and women, weighed their talents, and was afraid of making mistakes when appointing them.
At that time, the foreign economic strategy was to ensure peace and stability, and the internal system was being established. The country was troubled. From the prime minister, Gong Huanhong, to the Siwuqian capital, they were ordered to go abroad, and some served as county governors, princes, ministers, and even ministers. Hui Zuosu was once an official and became a doctor in Taizhong, and later he often served as a minister. He, Meigao and Guo Sheren were all around Emperor Wu, and they were just humorous and mocking attendants.
After a long time, Dongfang Shuo wrote to Chen Zuonong about his plan to strengthen the country through war. He took the opportunity to say that he had never been a high official and wanted to ask the emperor for a trial.
His memorial only used the remarks of Shang Yang and Han Fei. It was debauched and humorous. It contained tens of thousands of words, but was not reused in the end.
Dongfang Shuo then wrote a book and argued that if a guest accused him, he would use his low status to comfort and relieve himself with good words.
That article said:
Someone asked Dongfang Shuo: As soon as Su Qin and Zhang Yi met the monarch with ten thousand chariots, they became ministers, and their favor was passed down to future generations.
Now, sir, you practice the Taoism of the ancient emperors, admire the morality of the saints, recite and recite the "Poetry", "Books" and the books of hundreds of schools of thought, write books and treatises on bamboo slips and white silk.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
然悉力尽忠以事圣帝，旷日持久，官不过侍郎，位不过执戟，意者尚有遗行邪？
同胞之徒无所容居，其故何也？
东方先生喟然长息，仰而应之曰： 是固非子之所能备也。
彼一时也，此一时也，岂可同哉？
夫苏秦、张仪之时，周室大坏，诸侯不朝，力政争权，相禽以兵，并为十二国，未有雌雄，得士者强，失士者亡，故谈说行焉。
身处尊位，珍宝充内，外有廪仓，泽及后世，子孙长享。
今则不然。
圣帝流德，天下震慑，诸侯宾服，连四海之外以为带，安于覆盂，动犹运之掌，贤不肖何以异哉？
translation: 
However, for a long time, the emperor who tried his best to serve the sage with all his loyalty could no longer hold an official position like a minister, or hold a halberd in his position. It must be that his moral character still has shortcomings, right?
His official position is low, his salary is small, he cannot take care of others, and he has no place even for his brothers. What is the reason?
Mr. Dongfang sighed, raised his head and answered him: "This reason is not completely understandable to you."
Su Qin and Zhang Yi lived in the same era, and now they are in another era. How can they be the same?
In the era of Su Qin and Zhang Yi, the Zhou Dynasty was weak and the princes did not meet the emperor. They fought hard to fight for power and gain. They captured each other by force and merged into twelve vassal states, regardless of male or female. Those who gained scholars became stronger and those who lost them perished. Therefore, talking and lobbying became popular all over the world.
The lobbyist occupies a high position, has treasures inside his home, and has a granary outside. His blessings will be passed on to future generations, and his descendants will enjoy them for a long time.
This is not the case today.
The virtues of the sage emperor spread everywhere, the world was in awe, the princes paid tribute and surrendered, and the four seas were unified, wrapped around like a belt, more stable than a basin turned over and buckled.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
遵天之道，顺地之理，物无不得其所；故绥之则安，动之则苦；尊之则为将，卑之则为虏；抗之则在青云之上，抑之则在深泉之下；用之则为虎，不用则为鼠；虽欲尽节效情，安知前后？
夫天地之大，士民之众，竭精谈说，并进辐凑者不可胜数，悉力募之，困于衣食，或失门户。
使苏秦、张仪与仆并生于今之世，曾不得掌故，安敢望常侍郎乎？
故曰时异事异。
虽然，安可以不务修身乎哉！
《诗》云： 鼓钟于宫，声闻于外。
鹤鸣于九皋，声闻于天。
苟能修身，何患不荣！
太公体行仁义，七十有二乃设用于文、武，得信厥说，封于齐，七百岁而不绝。
此士所以日夜孳孳，敏行而不敢怠也。
辟若鹡鸰，飞且鸣矣。
translation: 
The success and failure of actions are like running in the palm of your hand. What is the difference between virtuous and unvirtuous? Today's imperial court follows the development laws of heaven and earth, and everything is in its proper place; therefore, if you protect it, you will be peaceful, if you punish it, you will be miserable, if you respect it, you will be a general, and if you despise it, you will be a prisoner. If you promote it, you will be above the blue clouds, if you suppress it, it will be under the deep spring;
The world is vast, and there are many scholars. They try their best to lobby, and those who move forward are like the spokes of a wheel gathered on the axle. There are too many to count. They try their best to yearn for the emperor's kindness, but they are trapped in food and clothing and cannot find a way out.
If Su Qin, Zhang Yi and I lived together in today's society, even if we wanted to be a small official like a storyteller, we wouldn't be able to do it. How could we dare to hope to be a minister?
So times have changed, and practices must change accordingly.
Even so, how can we not devote ourselves to self-cultivation?
The Book of Songs says: If you ring a bell indoors, the sound will be heard outdoors.
The crane cries on Fukasawa Island, and the cry reaches the sky.
If you can cultivate your body and mind, you won't be honored!
Jiang Taigong personally practiced benevolence and righteousness, and at the age of seventy-two, he served King Wen of Zhou and King Wu of Zhou again, so that he could implement his suggestions. He was granted the title of Qi, which lasted for seven hundred years without interruption.
The example of Jiang Taigong inspired later scholars to study hard at night and work hard without slacking off.
Just like the flying owl and the crow.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
传曰： 天不为人之恶寒而辍其冬，地不为人之恶险而辍其广，君子不为小人之匈匈而易其行。
天有常度，地有常形，君子有常行；君子道其常，小人计其功。
《诗》云： 礼义之不愆，何恤人之言？
故曰： 水至清则无鱼，人至察则无徒。冕而前旒，所以蔽明；黈纩充耳，所以塞聪。 明有所不见，聪有所不闻，举大德，赦小过，无求备于一人之义也。
枉而直之，使自得之；优而柔之，使自求之；揆而度之，使自索之。
盖圣人教化如此，欲自得之；自得之，则敏且广矣。
今世之处士，魁然无徒，廓然独居，上观许由，下察接舆，计同范蠡，忠合子胥，天下和平，与义相扶，寡耦少徒，固其宜也，子何疑于我哉？
translation: 
Ancient books say: The sky does not stop wintering because people are afraid of the cold, the earth does not stop being vast because people hate the steepness, and a gentleman does not change his behavior just because villains make noisy objections.
Heaven and earth have certain laws of movement, a gentleman has lasting virtue; a gentleman has a legitimate path, and a villain cares about his own selfish interests.
The Book of Songs says: There is nothing wrong with etiquette and justice, so why are you afraid of people's comments?
Therefore, it is said: If the water is too clear, fish will not be able to survive; if others are too strict, there will be no partners; hang a hook in front of the crown to cover the eyes; use yellow silk cotton to plug the ears to reduce hearing; bright eyes will have invisible things; smart ears will also have unheard sounds; reward great virtues, forgive small faults, and do not demand that a person's benevolence and righteousness are perfect.
The crooked should be made straight, but he should be allowed to get it by himself; he should be made wide and relaxed, but he should be allowed to seek it by himself; he should be made to be reasonable, but he should be allowed to explore by himself.
This is probably the teaching of the saints, you have to get it by yourself through exploration and seeking. If you search for it and get it, you will be wise and magnanimous.
The hermits in the world today are lonely without friends, living alone in emptiness. Looking at the hermit Xu You from the top, and the hermit Jie Yu from the Spring and Autumn Period from the bottom, they are the same as Fan Li and loyal to Zixu. When the world is at peace, it is natural to have no choice but to lead with righteousness and show nothing, to be alone and to have few friends.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
若夫燕之用乐毅，秦之任李斯，郦食其之下齐，说行如流，曲从如环，所欲必得，功若丘山，海内定，国家安，是遇其时也，子又何怪之邪？
语曰 以管窥天，以蠡测海，以莛撞钟 ，岂能通其条贯，考其文理，发其音声哉！
繇是观之，譬犹鼱鼠句之袭狗，孤豚之咋虎，至则靡耳，何功之有？
今以下愚而非处士，虽欲勿困，固不得已，此适足以明其不知权变而终或于大道也。
又设非有先生之论，其辞曰：
非有先生仕于吴，进不称往古以厉主意，退不能扬君美以显其功，默然无言者三年矣。
吴王怪而问之，曰： 寡人获先人之功，寄于众贤之上，夙兴夜寐，未尝敢怠也。
translation: 
Why do you have any doubts about my personal character? As for the appointment of Yue Yi in the State of Yan, and the appointment of Li Si and Li Shiqi in the State of Qin to persuade King Tian Guang of Qi to return to the Han Dynasty, they captured more than 70 cities in Qi without a fight. Their lobbying was as smooth as running water, and they persuaded others to give up their own opinions and listen to the lobbyists. They rotated freely like a ring. They will surely get what they want. Their achievements will be as high as mountains, the sea will be peaceful, and the country will be peaceful. This is the opportunity for them to display their talents. Why are you surprised!
As the saying goes: Use a bamboo tube to see the sky, a ladle to measure the sea, and a straw stalk to ring the bell. How can you understand the stars, study the sea, and make sounds by doing this?
From this point of view, if a gopher attacks a dog or a piglet bites a tiger, it will only be eaten. So what is the use?
Now it is impossible for a stupid person like you to blame me without embarrassment. This is enough to explain why those who do not know how to adapt to changes do not understand the truth after all.
Also assuming that there is no discussion from Mr. Wang, the article says:
Unless there is a gentleman who serves as an official in the state of Wu, he cannot praise the distant ancient times to encourage the king's will, or praise the king's virtues to show his achievements. He has been silent for three years.
King Wu felt very strange and asked him: "I have inherited the achievements of my ancestors and placed myself on the wise men. I get up early and go to bed late. I never dare to slack off."


Chunk 22: 
original: 
今先生率然高举，远集吴地，将以辅治寡人，诚窃嘉之，体不安席，食不甘味，目不视靡曼之色，耳不听钟鼓之音，虚心定志欲闻流议者三年于兹矣。
今先生进无以辅治，退不扬主誉，窃不为先生取之也。
盖怀能而不见，是不忠也；见而不行，主不明也。
意者寡人殆不明乎？
非有先生伏而唯唯。
吴王曰： 可以谈矣，寡人将竦意而览焉。
先生曰： 於戏！
可乎哉？
可乎哉？
谈何容易！
夫谈有悖于目、拂于耳、谬于心而便于身者；或有说于目、顺于耳、快于心而毁于行者。非有明王圣主，孰能听之？
吴王曰： 何为其然也？ 中人已上可以语上也。
先生试言，寡人将听焉。
translation: 
Sir, you are full of energy and fly high, and you have come to the country of Wu as soon as possible. You will help everyone with what you have learned in your life. I sincerely praise you in private. For the past three years, I have been restless, unable to eat well, my eyes have not been able to see the beautiful colors, my ears have not listened to the sound of bells and drums, and I have been humbly determined to listen to the master's great talks. I have been looking forward to it until now.
Nowadays, my husband cannot advance to assist the governance of Wu State, and my retreat cannot praise the reputation of the monarch. I privately think that my husband should not adopt such an attitude.
To have talents but not contribute them is to be unfaithful; to contribute talents but not be able to implement them is to be an unsage ruler.
You probably think I'm unsage, right?
Mr. Feiyou fell on the ground and respectfully responded with a "weiwei" sound.
King Wu said: "It's enough to say it. I will look forward to watching and listening."
Mr. Feiyou said: Woohoo!
Is it ok?
Is it ok?
Easier said than done!
Some of my words are unpleasant to the eyes, offensive to the ears, and uncomfortable to the heart, but are beneficial to the body; others are pleasing to the eyes, pleasant to the ears, pleasing to the heart, but damaging to virtue. Without the Holy Lord, the King of Ming, who can listen?
King Wu said: Why do you say this? Confucius said that people above the average level can talk to him about profound principles.
Sir, please tell me. I will listen to you carefully.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
先生对曰： 昔者关龙逢深谏于桀，而王子比干直言于纣，此二臣者，皆极虑尽忠，闵王泽不下流，而万民骚动，故直言其失，切谏其邪者，将以为君之荣，除主之祸也。
今则不然，反以为诽谤君之行，无人臣之礼，果纷然伤于身，蒙不辜之名，戮及先人，为天下笑，故曰谈何容易！
是以辅弼之臣瓦解，而邪谄之人并进，遂及蜚廉、恶来革等，二人皆诈伪，巧言利口以进其身，阴奉雕瑑刻镂之好以纳其心。
务快耳目之欲，以苟容为度。
遂往不戒，身没被戮，宗庙崩弛，国家为虚，放戮圣贤，亲近谗夫。
《诗》不云乎？ 谗人罔极，交乱四国 ，此之谓也。
故卑身贱体，说色微辞，愉愉呴呴，终无益于主上之治，则志士仁人不忍为也。
将俨然作矜严之色，深言直谏，上以拂主之邪，下以损百姓之害，则忤于邪主之心，历于衰世之法。
translation: 
Mr. Feiyou replied: In the past, Guan Longfeng strongly admonished Xia Jie, and Prince Bigan spoke frankly to Shang Zhou. These two ministers tried their best to serve them. They were worried that Jun Qian's virtues would not spread to the lower levels and cause unrest among the people. Therefore, they directly pointed out the faults of Chen Xia Jie and Shang Zhou and tried their best to persuade them to correct their evil words and deeds, hoping to bring glory to the king and eliminate their troubles.
This is not the case now. On the contrary, it is considered that outspoken advice is an act of slandering the king and lacks the etiquette of a minister. Sure enough, those who spoke out and advised were injured one after another and were accused of innocence. The killings actually implicated their ancestors and were ridiculed by the world. So it was easier said than done!
Therefore, the loyal and upright auxiliary ministers collapsed one after another, while the treacherous and flattering villains were all reused, and finally developed to be comparable to the evil and sycophantic ministers Feilian, Elaige and so on during the reign of King Zhou of Shang Dynasty. Both of them were treacherous and hypocritical men. They climbed to high positions with their clever words and eloquent words, and secretly dedicated their skills in carving to defraud the king's trust.
Committed to satisfying the pleasure desires of the eyes and ears, and living in the world in a humble way as a rule of life.
As a result, the king slipped down the path of evil without taking precautions. He was killed, the ancestral temple collapsed, and the country was in ruins. This was all the result of the exile and killing of sage ministers and the close proximity of slanderous villains.
Doesn’t it say so in the Book of Songs? There is no limit to the harm of slander, which has led to war between the four countries and China. This is what we are talking about.
Therefore, being groveling, having a pleasant appearance, and being soft-spoken is ultimately not conducive to the Lord’s governance, and it is also something that people with lofty ideals and benevolence do not want to do.
He has a dignified look, is reserved and solemn, speaks out and outspoken, assists the monarch in correcting evil, and reduces the disasters of the people below. He will disobey the evil monarch's thoughts and withstand the harsh punishments of the declining era.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
故养寿命之士莫肯进也，遂居深山之间，积土为室，编蓬为户，弹琴其中，以咏先王之风，亦可以乐而忘死矣。
是以伯夷、叔齐避周，饿于首阳之下，后世称其仁。
如是，邪主之行固足畏也，故曰谈何容易！
于是吴王惧然易容，捐荐去几，危坐而听。
先生曰： 接舆避世，箕子被发阳狂，此二人者，皆避浊世以全其身者也。
使遇明王圣主，得清燕之闲，宽和之色，发愤毕诚，图画安危，揆度得失，上以安主体，下以便万民，则五帝、三王之道可几而见也。
故伊尹蒙耻辱、负鼎俎、和五味以干汤，太公钓于渭之阳以见文王。
心合意同，谋无不成，计无不从，诚得其君也。
深念远虑，引义以正其身，推恩以广其下，本仁祖义，褒有德，禄贤能，诛恶乱，总远方，一统类，美风俗，此帝王所由昌也。
上不变天性，下不夺人伦，则天地和洽，远方怀之，故号圣王。臣子之职既加矣，于是裂地定封，爵为公侯，传国子孙，名显后世，民到于今称之，以遇汤与文王也。
太公、伊尹以如此，龙逢、比干独如彼，岂不哀哉！
translation: 
Therefore, those who want to prolong life and preserve life are not willing to give advice, so they live in the deep mountains, building houses with earth, and weaving doors with straw. They sit in wraps, play the harp, and sing the songs of the saint kings of the past, so that they can be happy and forget about death.
So Boyi and Shuqi escaped from King Wu of Zhou and starved to death at the foot of Shouyang Mountain. Later generations praised them as benevolent people.
Like the appearance, the evil monarch's behavior is already scary enough, so it's easier said than done!
Therefore, the King of Wu was frightened and changed his expression. He ordered his people to remove the recommendation seats and several cases, and sat down to listen.
Mr. Fei You said: During the Spring and Autumn Period, the hermits of the Chu State pretended to be crazy to avoid the world, and during the Shang Dynasty, Jizi wore his hair and pretended to be crazy. Both of them avoided troubled times to save their lives.
If they meet the Holy Master of the Ming Dynasty and have quiet and peaceful leisure, and use kind and gentle words, so that they can express their anger, devote all their loyalty, plan the safety of the country, and weigh the gains and losses of political affairs, which can stabilize the body of the monarch and facilitate the people, then the way of the Five Emperors and Three Kings can almost be seen.
Therefore, Yi Yin was willing to suffer humiliation and carried the cooking tripod and Zu to blend the five flavors in order to meet Shang Tang. Jiang Taigong fished on the shore of the Weishui River to meet King Wen of Zhou.
The king and his ministers are of the same mind, all their plans are successful, and all their plans are followed. It is truly a wise minister who has met a wise king.
Foresight, guidance of righteousness to correct one's own body and mind, extension of kindness to recruit subordinates, benevolence as the foundation, starting with righteousness, praising the virtuous, rewarding the virtuous, eradicating evil and chaos, gathering foreign races from far away, unifying the same kind in China, and beautifying customs, this is the only way for an emperor to prosper.
If nature is not changed above and human relations are not abandoned below, then the world will be harmonious and harmonious, and people from far away will come to join them. Therefore, King Tang and King Wen of Zhou are called holy kings, and their ministers' official positions are constantly promoted, so the land is divided and enfeoffed, and they are titled as princes.
The endings of Jiang Taigong and Yi Yin are so glorious, but the endings of Long Feng and Bigan are so tragic, isn't it sad!


Chunk 25: 
original: 
故曰谈何容易！
于是吴王穆然，俯而深惟，仰而泣下交颐，曰： 嗟乎！
余国之不亡也，绵绵连连，殆哉，世之不绝也！
于是正明堂之朝，齐君臣之位，举贤材，布德惠，施仁义，赏有功；躬节俭，减后宫之费，损车马之用；放郑声，远佞人，省庖厨，去侈靡；卑宫馆，坏苑囿，填池堑，以予贫民无产业者；开内藏，振贫穷，存耆老，恤孤独；薄赋敛，省刑辟。
行此三年，海内晏然，天下大洽，阴阳和调，万物咸得其宜；国无灾害之变，民无饥寒之色，家给人民，畜积有余，囹圄空虚；凤凰来集，麒麟在郊，甘露既降，朱草萌牙；远方异俗之人乡风慕义，各奉其职而来朝贺。
故治乱之道，存亡之端，若此易见，而君人者莫肯为也，臣愚窃以为过。
translation: 
So it’s easier said than done!
So King Wu remained silent, bowed his head and thought quietly. He raised his head, tears streaming down his chin, and said sadly: Oh!
My country will not perish, it will continue forever, it is dangerous, and the lineage will not be cut off!
So the King of Wu organized the court meetings in the Mingtang, arranged the positions among the monarchs and ministers, recommended talents, spread virtues, spread benevolence and righteousness, and rewarded meritorious soldiers; he personally practiced frugality, reduced the expenses of the harem and the cost of carriages and horses; and abandoned the beautiful ladies. The Zheng Guo music, stay away from flattery and flattering villains, reduce the number of kitchens, abandon luxury and licentiousness; shrink the palace, destroy the gardens, fill up the ponds and ditches, and distribute them to the poor who have no property for farming; open the inner palace treasury to relieve the poor. Condolences to the elderly and help those who are lonely; reduce taxes and regulations, and reduce penalties.
After these measures were implemented for three years, the sea was safe and peaceful, the world was harmonious, the yin and yang were harmonious, and everything was in its proper place; the country was not affected by disasters, the people were not hungry or cold, the family had enough food, there was more than enough storage, and the prison was empty; the phoenix flew, the unicorn appeared, the dew fell, and the vermilion sprouted; people with different customs from far away yearned for the customs of the Central Plains, admired the etiquette of the inland, and came to congratulate each other with their tributes.
Therefore, the principles of peace and chaos, and the clues to survival or destruction, are as obvious as this, but the king is unwilling to do it, and the minister privately and foolishly thinks that this is wrong.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
故《诗》云： 王国克生，惟周之桢，济济多士，文王以宁。
此之谓也。
朔之文辞，此二篇最善。
其余《封泰山》、《责和氏璧》及《皇太子生禖》、《屏风》、《殿上柏柱》、《平乐观赋猎》，八言、七言上下，《从公孙弘借车》，凡刘向所录朔书具是矣。
世所传他事皆非也。
赞曰：刘向言少时数问长老贤人通于事及朔时者，皆曰朔口谐倡辩，不能持论，喜为庸人诵说，故令后世多传闻者。
而杨雄亦以为朔言不纯师，行不纯德，其流风遗书蔑如也。
然朔名过实者，以其诙达多端，不名一行，应谐似优，不穷似智，正谏似直，秽德似隐。
translation: 
Therefore, the "Book of Songs" says: Zhou State can produce many wise men, who are all good pillars of the country. If there are many talented people under one roof, King Wen will be at peace and the country will be prosperous.
That's what I'm talking about.
Among Dongfang Shuo's literary works, "Replying to Guests" and "On Mr. Feiyou" are the best.
Others include "Feng Taishan", "Responsibility for He's Bi", "The Crown Prince's Plum Blossoms", "Screen", "cypress pillars in the palace", "Poetry and Optimism about Hunting", eight-character and seven-character poems, each with two chapters, and "Borrowing a Car from Gongsun Hong", all of which are Dongfang Shuo's books recorded by Liu Xiang.
Other things rumored about Dongfang Shuo in society are all false.
Zanri: Liu Xiang said that when he was young, he visited many wise old people who knew stories and people who were contemporaries of Dongfang Shuo. They all said that Dongfang Shuo was witty and eloquent, could not stick to his own opinions, and liked to chat with ordinary people, so many people in later generations heard about him.
However, Yang Xiong believed that Dongfang Shuo's words were not a pure teacher, his actions were not pure virtues, and his words were meaningless, and there was nothing worthy of praise.
Dongfang Shuo is over-named because he is humorous, insightful, witty and changeable. There is no one behavior that is famous. He should be humorous and close to advocating excellence, being endless like wisdom, being honest and admonishing, and being filthy.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
非夷、齐而是柳下惠，戒其子以上容： 首阳为拙，柱下为工；饱食安步，以仕易农；依隐玩世，诡及不逢 。
其滑稽之雄乎！
朔之诙谐，逢占射覆，其事浮浅，行于众庶，童儿牧竖莫不眩耀。
而后世好事者因取奇言怪语附着之朔，故详录焉。
translation: 
He criticized Boyi and Shuqi but affirmed Liu Xiahui, and warned his sons to avoid harm: Boyi and Shuqi did not eat Zhou millet and starved to death in Shouyang Mountain, which was clumsy; I served as the pillar of the Zhou Dynasty and lived without trouble for the rest of my life, which was skillful workmanship; after eating, I took a walk and exchanged my official salary for the stuff produced by farmers; I stayed in the court for a lifetime, and behaved against the times without encountering disaster.
Dongfang Shuo is the hero of comedy!
Dongfang Shuo's humor is manifested in rebellious ridicule, shooting, etc. These things are superficial and spread among the people, and children and herding children all show off.
Later generations of meddlesome people attached some strange words to Se Zuosu, so they collected Dongfang Shuo's words in detail.


