Summary uses chunk [0, 2, 3, 9, 17]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
东方朔字曼倩，平原厌次人也。
武帝初即位，征天下举方正贤良文学材力之士，待以不次之位，四方士多上书言得失，自衒鬻者以千数，其不足采者辄报闻罢。朔初来，上书曰： 臣朔少失父母，长养兄嫂。
年十三学书，三冬文史足用。
十五学击剑。
十六学《诗》、《书》，诵二十二万言。
十九学孙、吴兵法，战阵之具，钲鼓之教，亦诵二十二万言。
凡臣朔固已诵四十四万言。
又常服子路之言。
臣朔年二十二，长九尺三寸，目若悬珠，齿若编贝，勇若孟贲，捷若庆忌，廉若鲍叔，信若尾生。
若此，可以为天子大臣矣。臣朔昧死再拜以闻。
朔文辞不逊，高自称誉，上伟之，令待诏公车，奉禄薄，未得省见。
translation: 
Dongfang Shuo, courtesy name Manqian, was born in Yanci County, Pingyuan County.
Not long after Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he asked the world to recommend scholars with talents such as integrity, virtuousness, and literature, and appointed them with special positions. Scholars from all over the world wrote letters to discuss the gains and losses of national affairs. As soon as Dongfang Shuo arrived in Chang'an, he wrote a letter saying: I, Dongfang Shuo, lost his parents when he was young and was raised by his brother and sister-in-law.
He started studying at the age of thirteen and learned writing and note-taking in three years.
Learned fencing at the age of fifteen.
At the age of sixteen, he studied the Book of Songs and Shangshu and recited 220,000 words.
At the age of nineteen, he studied Sun Wu's Art of War, and recited 220,000 words on battle formations, control of the advance and retreat of troops during battles, etc.
I memorized a total of 440,000 words.
He is also often familiar with Zilu's remarks.
I am twenty-two years old, nine feet three inches tall, my eyes are as bright as hanging pearls, my teeth are as neat and white as strings of shells, I am as brave as Meng Ben, as agile as Qing Ji, as honest as Uncle Bao, and as trustworthy as Weisheng.
A person like this can be a minister of the emperor. My minister Dongfang Shuo risked his life to pay homage to the emperor again.
Dongfang Shuo's letter was not modest, but he praised and promoted himself. However, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty thought that he was a great man and ordered him to stay with Shao in the Gongche Mansion. However, his salary was meager and he could not receive an interview from Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.

summary:
summary line 0: Dongfang Shuo, courtesy name Manqian, was born in Yanci County, Pingyuan County. After Emperor Wu of Han ascended the throne, he sought scholars of integrity and literature. Dongfang Shuo wrote a letter to the emperor, boasting of his abilities: he studied writing at thirteen, fencing at fifteen, and by sixteen had memorized 220,000 words of the *Book of Songs* and *Shangshu*. At nineteen, he memorized another 220,000 words of Sun Wu's *Art of War*. He described himself as tall, brave, agile, honest, and trustworthy, claiming he could serve as a minister. Emperor Wu, impressed by his audacity, ordered him to stay at the Gongche Mansion, though his salary was meager and he received no audience.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
上尝使诸数家射覆，置守宫盂下，射之，皆不能中。朔自赞曰： 臣尝受《易》，请射之。
乃别蓍布卦而对曰： 臣以为龙又无角，谓之为蛇又有足，跂跂脉脉善缘壁，是非守宫即蜥蜴。
上曰： 善。
赐帛十匹。
复使射他物，连中，辄赐帛。
时，有幸倡郭舍人，滑稽不穷，常侍左右，曰： 朔狂，幸中耳，非至数也。
臣愿令朔复射，朔中之，臣榜百，不能中，臣赐帛。
乃覆树上寄生，令朔射之。朔曰： 是寠薮也。
舍人曰： 果知朔不能中也。
朔曰： 生肉为脍，干肉为脯；著树为寄生，盆下为寠薮。
上令倡监榜舍人，舍人不胜痛，呼謈。
朔笑之曰： 咄！口无毛，声謷謷，尻益高。
舍人恚曰： 朔擅诋欺天子从官，当弃市。
上问朔： 何故诋之？
对曰： 臣非敢诋之，乃与为隐耳。 上曰： 隐云何？
朔曰： 夫口无毛者，狗窦也；声謷謷者，鸟哺鷇也；尻益高者，鹤俯啄也。
舍人不服，因曰： 臣愿复问朔隐语，不知，亦当榜。
即妄为谐语曰： 令壶龃，老柏涂，伊优亚，狋吽牙。
何谓也？
朔曰： 令者，命也。
壶者，所以盛也。
龃者，齿不正也。
老者，人所敬也。
柏者，鬼之廷也。
涂者，渐洳径也。
伊优亚者，辞未定也。
狋吽牙者，两犬争也。
舍人所问，朔应声辄对，变诈锋出，莫能穷者，左右大惊。
上以朔为常侍郎，遂得爱幸。
translation: 
Emperor Wu once asked some magicians who were good at divination to cover the gecko under a basin and asked them to guess what it was, but they couldn't guess it. Dongfang Shuo introduced himself and said: I once studied "Yi", please allow me to guess what it is.
So he arranged the yarrow into various hexagrams and replied: I think it is a dragon without horns, but I think it is a snake with legs, its limbs are connected by pulses, and it is good at climbing walls. This thing is either a gecko or a lizard.
The emperor said: You guessed it right.
Give him ten pieces of silk.
He was also asked to guess other things, and he guessed correctly every time. He was given silk every time.
At that time, there was a favored actor Guo Sheren in the palace. He was very funny and often accompanied Emperor Wu. He said: Dongfang Shuo is too crazy. It was just a lucky guess. There is no real magic.
I hope to let Dongfang Shuo guess again. If he guesses correctly, he will give me a hundred lashes; if he guesses incorrectly, he will give me silk.
So he put the parasitic thing growing on the tree under the pot and asked Dongfang Shuo to guess what it was. Dongfang Shuo said: It is Baosou.
Guo Sheren said: I really know that Dongfang Shuo will not guess correctly.
Dongfang Shuo said: Raw meat is called 荍, dried meat is called preserved meat, attached to a tree is called parasite, and covered under a basin is called dou sau.
The emperor ordered Chang Jian to whip Guo Sheren. Guo Sheren was in unbearable pain and howled loudly.
Dongfang Shuo laughed at him and said: Hey, there is no hair on his mouth, he is screaming, and his butt is getting higher and higher.
Guo Sheren said angrily: Dongfang Shuo dared to slander and insult the emperor's attendants. He should be sentenced to death for abandoning the market.
The emperor asked Dongfang Shuo: Why did you slander and insult him?
Dongfang Shuo replied: I dare not slander or insult him, I just told him a riddle. The emperor asked: What riddle are you talking about?
Dongfang Shuo said: The hairless mouth is a dog hole; the cry is the cry of a mother bird when feeding her chicks; the buttocks are getting higher and higher, which is the look of a crane lowering its head to peck at food.
Guo Sheren was not convinced and said, "I hope to ask Dongfang Shuo a riddle as well. If he doesn't know it, he should also be whipped."
He immediately made up a riddle with homophonic sounds and said: Ling Huhan, Lao Botu, Yiyouya, Biaopanya.
What is said?
Dongfang Shuo said: Ling is an order.
Pots are used to hold things.
It means the teeth are not straight.
Lao is an old man that everyone respects.
Bai is the palace of ghosts.
Painting is a road that is soaked.
Iyoya's words were slurred.
Biaopanya is a fight between two dogs.
Dongfang Shuo answered Guo She's riddles in the world, with many clever and clever changes. No riddle could stump him, and everyone present was very surprised.
The emperor appointed Dongfang Shuo as the Chang Shilang, and he gained the favor and favor of Emperor Wu.

summary:
summary line 1: Dongfang Shuo once tricked the dwarfs guarding the royal horse pen, claiming the emperor planned to kill them for being useless. When the dwarfs tearfully begged the emperor, he summoned Dongfang Shuo, who argued that the dwarfs were short and received the same salary as him, a tall man, leading to unfairness. Emperor Wu laughed and promoted him to a closer position. Later, Dongfang Shuo correctly guessed a gecko under a basin using the *I Ching*, earning silk rewards. When a courtier challenged him, he guessed a parasitic growth on a tree, proving his skill. He also cleverly deflected accusations of slander with riddles, impressing the emperor, who appointed him Chang Shilang.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
久之，伏日，诏赐从官肉。
大官丞日晏下来，朔独拔剑割肉，谓其同官曰： 伏日当蚤归，请受赐。
即怀肉去。
大官奏之。
朔入，上曰： 昨赐肉，不待诏，以剑割肉而去之，何也？
朔免冠谢。
上曰： 先生起，自责也！
朔再拜曰： 朔来！
朔来！
受赐不待诏，何无礼也！
拔剑割肉，一何壮也！
割之不多，又何廉也！
归遗细君，又何仁也！
上笑曰： 使先生自责，乃反自誉！
复赐酒一石，肉百斤，归遗细君。
初，建元三年，微行始出，北至池阳，西至黄山，南猎长杨，东游宜春。
微行常用饮酎已。
translation: 
After a long time, on a doggy day, Emperor Wu ordered that meat be rewarded to the attendant officials.
The high official did not come to divide the meat until nightfall, so Dongfang Shuo drew his sword and cut the meat alone, saying to his colleagues: "I should go home early in the dog days of summer. Please allow me to accept the emperor's reward."
Then he wrapped the meat in his arms and left.
Daguancheng reported this matter to the emperor.
When Dongfang Shuo entered the palace, Emperor Wu said: Yesterday, you gave me meat, but you cut the meat with your sword and left without waiting for the order to be issued. Why is this?
Dongfang Shuo took off his hat and knelt down to apologize.
The emperor said: Sir, stand up and blame yourself.
Dongfang Shuo paid his respects again and said: Dongfang Shuo!
Dongfang Shuo!
How rude to accept a reward without waiting for the order to be issued!
Drawing a sword to cut flesh, how heroic!
Not much meat is cut, but how honest it is!
How kind it is to go home and give meat to your wife to eat!
The emperor smiled and said: Mr. Jean blames himself, but he actually praises himself!
He also gave him a stone of wine and a hundred catties of meat and asked him to go home and give them to his wife.
At the beginning, in the third year of Jianyuan, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty began to travel incognito, traveling to Chiyang Palace in the north, Huangshan Palace in the west, Changyang Palace in the south, and Yichun Palace in the east.
Traveling in private is often done every year when the new wine is brewed and drank in the ancestral temple.

summary:
summary line 2: On a dog day, Dongfang Shuo cut meat from the emperor's reward without waiting for orders, taking it home. When questioned, he humorously blamed himself, praising his own actions, which amused Emperor Wu, who rewarded him with wine and meat. Emperor Wu often hunted incognito, causing distress to farmers. He planned to build Shanglin Garden, but Dongfang Shuo admonished him, citing three reasons: it would ruin fertile land, destroy homes and tombs, and waste resources. He warned against luxury, referencing historical examples like King Zhou of Yin and Qin Shihuang. Despite this, Emperor Wu built the garden but promoted Dongfang Shuo to Taizhong doctor.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
先是，朔尝醉入殿中，小遗殿上，劾不敬。有诏免为庶人，待诏宦者署。因此对复为中郎，赐帛百匹。
初，帝姑馆陶公主号窦太主，堂邑侯陈午尚之。
午死，主寡居，年五十余矣，近幸董偃。
始偃与母以卖珠为事，偃年十三，随母出入主家。
左右言其姣好，主召见，曰； 吾为母养之。
因留第中，教书计相马御射，颇读传记。
至年十八而冠，出则执辔，入则侍内。
为人温柔爱人，以主故，诸公接之，名称城中，号曰董君。
主因推令散财交士，令中府曰： 董君所发，一日金满百斤，钱满百万，帛满千匹，乃白之。
安陵爰叔者，爰盎兄子也，与偃善，谓偃曰： 足下私侍汉主，挟不测之罪，将欲安处乎？
偃惧曰： 忧之久矣，不知所以。
translation: 
Prior to this, Dongfang Shuo had entered the palace drunk and urinated in the palace, and was impeached for the crime of disrespect. Emperor Wu issued an edict to demote him to a commoner and wait for the eunuch in the eunuch's office. Because of this conversation with the emperor, he was appointed as Zhonglang and given a hundred pieces of silk.
At the beginning, Princess Guantao, the aunt of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, was known as Mrs. Dou, and Chen Wu, the Marquis of Tangyi, married her.
After Chen Wu's death, the Grand Master became a widow. He was over fifty years old, but he was close to and favored a young man named Dong Yan.
At first, Dong Yan and his mother made a living by selling pearls. Dong Yan was thirteen years old at the time and often accompanied his mother to the home of Taizu Dou.
Empress Dowager Dou's attendants all praised Dong Yan's handsomeness. Empress Dowager Dou summoned Dong Yan's mother and son and said to Dong Yan's mother, "I will raise this child for you."
So he stayed in the mansion and taught him writing, arithmetic, horsemanship, driving, archery and other skills, and also let him read some biographical books.
When Dong Yan reached the age of eighteen, he was crowned. He would drive the master when he went out, and he would serve him when the master returned home.
Dong Yan has a gentle and loving temperament. Because Taishu Bao doted on him, many princes welcomed him, and he became famous in Chang'an City, known as Dong Jun.
Grand Master Bao took the opportunity to recommend him and asked him to spread his wealth and make friends with scholars. He ordered the Zhongfu official in charge of the gold and silk in the palace to say: Dong Jun will report to me only when the gold and silk he spent in a day exceeds one hundred catties, the money reaches one million, and the silk exceeds one thousand pieces.
Uncle Yuan, a native of Anling County, was the son of Yuan Ang's brother and was close to Dong Yan. He said to Dong Yan: You serve Taizu Dou privately and are hiding unpredictable disasters. How do you want to find peace with yourself?
Dong Yan said fearfully: I have been worried about this for a long time, and I don't know how to get rid of it.

summary:
summary line 3: When Lord Zhaoping, son of Princess Longlu, killed a nanny and faced execution, Emperor Wu mourned but upheld the law. Dongfang Shuo congratulated him, praising his impartiality. The emperor initially scolded him but later accepted his explanation that wine could relieve sorrow. Dongfang Shuo was demoted for urinating in the palace but reinstated after this exchange. He also advised against allowing Dong Yan, a favorite of Princess Guantao, into the palace, citing three crimes. Emperor Wu heeded his advice, and Dong Yan's influence waned.

Chunk 17: 
original: 
朔对曰： 臣观其臿齿牙，树颊胲，吐唇吻，擢项颐，结股脚，连脽尻，遗蛇其迹，行步偊旅，臣朔虽不肖，尚兼此数子者。
朔之进对澹辞，皆此类也。
武帝既招英俊，程其器能，用之如不及。
时方外事胡、越，内兴制度，国家多事，自公孙弘以下至司马迁，皆奉使方外，或为郡国守相至公卿，而朔尝至太中大夫，后常为郎，与枚皋、郭舍人俱在左右，诙啁而已。
久之，朔上书陈农战强国之计，因自讼独不得大官，欲求试用。
其言专商鞅、韩非之语也，指意放荡，颇复诙谐，辞数万言，终不见用。
朔因著论，设客难己，用位卑以自慰谕。
其辞曰：
客难东方朔曰： 苏秦、张仪一当万乘之主，而都卿相之位，泽及后世。
今子大夫修先王之术，慕圣人之义，讽诵《诗》、《书》、百家之言，不可胜数，著于竹帛，唇腐齿落，服膺而不释，好学乐道之效，明白甚矣；自以智能海内无双，则可谓博闻辩智矣。
translation: 
Dongfang Shuo replied: "I see that they have shovel teeth, tree bark gills, turned lips, long necks, knotted feet, even trousers, a meandering and sloping walk, and a bent body. Although Dongfang Shuo is not very good, he still has the advantages of these people."
Dongfang Shuo's speeches and responses are all like this.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty had recruited outstanding men and women, weighed their talents, and was afraid of making mistakes when appointing them.
At that time, the foreign economic strategy was to ensure peace and stability, and the internal system was being established. The country was troubled. From the prime minister, Gong Huanhong, to the Siwuqian capital, they were ordered to go abroad, and some served as county governors, princes, ministers, and even ministers. Hui Zuosu was once an official and became a doctor in Taizhong, and later he often served as a minister. He, Meigao and Guo Sheren were all around Emperor Wu, and they were just humorous and mocking attendants.
After a long time, Dongfang Shuo wrote to Chen Zuonong about his plan to strengthen the country through war. He took the opportunity to say that he had never been a high official and wanted to ask the emperor for a trial.
His memorial only used the remarks of Shang Yang and Han Fei. It was debauched and humorous. It contained tens of thousands of words, but was not reused in the end.
Dongfang Shuo then wrote a book and argued that if a guest accused him, he would use his low status to comfort and relieve himself with good words.
That article said:
Someone asked Dongfang Shuo: As soon as Su Qin and Zhang Yi met the monarch with ten thousand chariots, they became ministers, and their favor was passed down to future generations.
Now, sir, you practice the Taoism of the ancient emperors, admire the morality of the saints, recite and recite the "Poetry", "Books" and the books of hundreds of schools of thought, write books and treatises on bamboo slips and white silk.

summary:
summary line 4: Dongfang Shuo urged Emperor Wu to emulate Emperor Wen's frugality to reform society, criticizing the current extravagance. When asked to compare himself to other scholars, he humorously belittled them. He wrote "Replying to Guests" and "On Mr. Feiyou," defending his low status and arguing that times had changed. In "On Mr. Feiyou," he discussed the dangers of outspoken advice and the importance of wise rulers. His works were recorded by Liu Xiang, though many rumors about him were false. Historians note his wit and humor, comparing him to a comedic figure, but his advice was often insightful.

