Chunk 0: 
original: 
田单者，齐诸田疏属也。
湣王时，单为临菑市掾，不见知。
及燕使乐毅伐破齐，齐湣王出奔，已而保莒城。
燕师长驱平齐，而田单走安平，令其宗人尽断其车轴末而傅铁笼。
已而燕军攻安平，城坏，齐人走，争涂，以轊折车败，为燕所虏，唯田单宗人以铁笼故得脱，东保即墨。
燕既尽降齐城，唯独莒、即墨不下。
燕军闻齐王在莒，并兵攻之。
淖齿既杀湣王於莒，因坚守，距燕军，数年不下。
燕引兵东围即墨，即墨大夫出与战，败死。
城中相与推田单，曰： 安平之战，田单宗人以铁笼得全，习兵。
立以为将军，以即墨距燕。
顷之，燕昭王卒，惠王立，与乐毅有隙。
田单闻之，乃纵反间於燕，宣言曰： 齐王已死，城之不拔者二耳。
乐毅畏诛而不敢归，以伐齐为名，实欲连兵南面而王齐。
齐人未附，故且缓攻即墨以待其事。
齐人所惧，唯恐他将之来，即墨残矣。
燕王以为然，使骑劫代乐毅。
乐毅因归赵，燕人士卒忿。
而田单乃令城中人食必祭其先祖於庭，飞鸟悉翔舞城中下食。
燕人怪之。
田单因宣言曰： 神来下教我。
translation: 
Tian Dan is the distant descendant of the Tian family in Qi State.
During the reign of King Qi Min, Tian Dan served as a minor official in charge of the municipal administration in Linyi City, the capital, and was not reused by the King of Qi.
Later, Yan State sent general Le Yi to attack Qi State, and King Qi Min was forced to flee from the capital, and soon retreated to Jucheng.
When the Yan army marched in to conquer Qi, Tian Dan also left the capital and fled to Anping. He asked his people to saw off all the protruding parts of the axles at both ends and wrap them in iron sheets.
Soon, the Yan army besieged Anping again, and the city was breached. The Qi people scrambled to escape. Many people were captured by the Yan army because their axles were broken. Only Tian Dan and his clansmen were able to escape because they wrapped the axle with iron hoops and retreated eastward to Jimo.
At this time, the Yan army had surrendered all the cities of Qi, and only two cities, Ju and Jimo, had not yet been conquered.
When the Yan army heard that King Qi Min was in Jucheng, they gathered their troops and attacked Jucheng with all their strength.
Minister Nao Chi killed King Qi Min in Jucheng and defended the city against the Yan army. The Yan army did not break the city for several years.
As a last resort, General Yan could only lead his troops eastward and besiege Jimo. The officials guarding the city of Jimo went out to fight with the Yan army, but were defeated and killed.
The soldiers and civilians in Jimo City elected Tian Dan as their leader, saying: In the battle of Anping, Tian Dan and his fellow tribesmen were able to escape safely because they wrapped the axles with iron hoops, which shows that he knows the art of war.
Therefore, everyone supported Tian Dan as general, defended Jimo, and resisted the Yan army.
Not long after, King Yan Zhao died and King Yan Hui came to the throne. There was a rift between him and Le Yi.
After Tian Dan heard the news, he sent people to Yan State to implement countermeasures and threatened: King Qi Min has been killed, and there are only two Qi State cities that have not been conquered.
Le Yi did not dare to return home because he was afraid of being killed by the king. In the name of attacking Qi, he actually wanted to join forces with Qi's troops and become king of Qi.
The people of Qi have not yet surrendered, so they are stalling for time and delaying the attack on Jimo in order to wait for the time to mature before claiming the throne.
What the people of Qi are worried about is that they are afraid that Yan will send other generals. In that case, Mo City will definitely be destroyed.
King Yan Hui thought these words were correct and sent his general Qi Jie to replace Le Yi.
As a result, Le Yi fled to Zhao State, and the Yan officers and soldiers were very angry about this.
Tian Dan also ordered the soldiers and civilians in the city to offer sacrifices to their ancestors in the courtyard before eating, causing many birds to fly around the city as they competed for the sacrificial food.
Yan Jun outside the city felt strange when he saw it.
Tian Dan threatened again: "This is a god descending from the sky to guide us in defeating the enemy and winning."


Chunk 1: 
original: 
乃令城中人曰： 当有神人为我师。
有一卒曰： 臣可以为师乎？
因反走。
田单乃起，引还，东乡坐，师事之。
卒曰： 臣欺君，诚无能也。 田单曰： 子勿言也！
因师之。
每出约束，必称神师。
乃宣言曰： 吾唯惧燕军之劓所得齐卒，置之前行，与我战，即墨败矣。
燕人闻之，如其言。
城中人见齐诸降者尽劓，皆怒，坚守，唯恐见得。
单又纵反间曰： 吾惧燕人掘吾城外冢墓，僇先人，可为寒心。
燕军尽掘垄墓，烧死人。
即墨人从城上望见，皆涕泣，俱欲出战，怒自十倍。
田单知士卒之可用，乃身操版插，与士卒分功，妻妾编於行伍之间，尽散饮食飨士。
translation: 
And the people in the city said: There must be a man of god who will be my military advisor.
A soldier said: Can I be your military advisor?
After saying that, he walked away.
Tian Dan stood up quickly, pulled him over, asked him to sit on the upper seat facing east, and served him with the etiquette of serving a teacher.
The soldier said: I lied to you, I actually have no skills. Tian Dan said: Stop talking.
Then he became his teacher.
Every time you give an order, you must say it is the master's idea.
He also threatened: What I fear most is that the Yan army will cut off the noses of the captured Qi soldiers, put them at the front of the team, and then fight with us, then Jimo will definitely be conquered.
When Yan Jun heard this, he acted accordingly.
When the people in the city saw that many surrendered soldiers from Qi had their noses cut off, everyone was filled with indignation and defended even more firmly, fearing that they would be caught by the enemy.
Tian Dan sent someone to counterattack and said: "I am very afraid that the Yan people dug up our ancestral graves outside the city and insulted our ancestors. This is really chilling."
After the Yan army heard about it, they dug up all the graves of the Qi people and burned the dead bodies.
When the people of Jimo saw this scene from the city, they all cried bitterly and asked to go out of the city to fight. They were very angry.
Tian Dan knew that now was the best time to go to war, so he personally took the plywood and shovel, and built fortifications with the soldiers. He also included his wife and concubines in the team, and took out all the food to reward the soldiers.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
令甲卒皆伏，使老弱女子乘城，遣使约降於燕，燕军皆呼万岁。
田单又收民金，得千溢，令即墨富豪遗燕将，曰： 即墨即降，原无虏掠吾族家妻妾，令安堵。
燕将大喜，许之。
燕军由此益懈。
田单乃收城中得千馀牛，为绛缯衣，画以五彩龙文，束兵刃於其角，而灌脂束苇於尾，烧其端。
凿城数十穴，夜纵牛，壮士五千人随其後。
牛尾热，怒而奔燕军，燕军夜大惊。
牛尾炬火光明炫燿，燕军视之皆龙文，所触尽死伤。
五千人因衔枚击之，而城中鼓譟从之，老弱皆击铜器为声，声动天地。
燕军大骇，败走。
齐人遂夷杀其将骑劫。
燕军扰乱奔走，齐人追亡逐北，所过城邑皆畔燕而归田单，兵日益多，乘胜，燕日败亡，卒至河上，而齐七十馀城皆复为齐。
translation: 
He ordered the well-equipped elite troops not to ambush, and allowed the old, weak, remnant soldiers and women to defend at the top of the city. He also sent envoys to the Yan army's camp to agree on the surrender with the Yan army. After learning the news, the Yan army soldiers all shouted long live.
Tian Dan collected gold from the people and got a thousand yi in total, and asked the rich and powerful people in Jimo City to go and give it to General Yan, requesting: Jimo is about to surrender. I hope that after you enter the city, you will not kidnap our wives and concubines, so that they can be safe.
The general of the Yan army was very happy and agreed to him.
The Yan army became more relaxed as a result.
Tian Dan collected more than a thousand cows from the city, covered them with bright red silk quilts with colorful dragon patterns painted on them, tied sharp knives to the horns, tied grease-soaked reeds to the cows' tails, and lit the reeds on the cows' tails.
He also dug dozens of caves into the city wall, drove the cattle out of the caves at night, and sent five thousand strong soldiers to follow the fire cattle.
Because their tails were burned, the fire oxen went straight to the Yan army's camp in a rage. All of this happened suddenly at night, causing the Yan army to panic.
The torches on the tails of the oxen illuminated the night as brightly as day. Yan Jun saw that their bodies were covered with dragon patterns, and those who touched them were either dead or injured.
Five thousand warriors attacked silently with coins in their mouths, while the people in Mo City took the opportunity to beat drums and shout, following closely behind. Even the old and weak women and children held bronze utensils and beat the sound loudly, which combined with the shouts outside the city to form an earth-shattering sound.
The Yan army was frightened and fled in defeat.
The people of Qi killed Yan's general Qi Jie in the rebellion.
The Yan army was in chaos and fled for their lives. The Qi army pursued the fleeing enemy troops closely. The towns they passed through betrayed the Yan army and surrendered to Tian Dan. Tian Dan's troops also increased day by day, taking advantage of the military power of victory to pursue them all the way. The Yan army fled in panic, its combat effectiveness weakening day by day, and retreated to the edge of the Yellow River. More than 70 cities that had originally been lost to Qi were recovered by Qi.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
乃迎襄王於莒，入临菑而听政。
襄王封田单，号曰安平君。
太史公曰：兵以正合，以奇胜。
善之者，出奇无穷。
奇正还相生，如环之无端。
夫始如处女，適人开户；後如脱兔，適不及距：其田单之谓邪！
初，淖齿之杀湣王也，莒人求湣王子法章，得之太史嬓之家，为人灌园。
嬓女怜而善遇之。
後法章私以情告女，女遂与通。
及莒人共立法章为齐王，以莒距燕，而太史氏女遂为后，所谓 君王后 也。
燕之初入齐，闻画邑人王蠋贤，令军中曰 环画邑三十里无入 ，以王蠋之故。
已而使人谓蠋曰： 齐人多高子之义，吾以子为将，封子万家。
translation: 
So Tian Dan went to Jucheng to greet King Xiang of Qi, and King Xiang returned to the capital Linzi to handle government affairs.
King Xiang of Qi granted him the title of Land Dan and the title of Lord Anping.
Tai Shigong said: When fighting with troops, we should not only engage in head-on confrontation, but also use surprise troops to attack and win.
People who are good at using troops can always use surprise and variety to create endless changes.
The combination of head-on confrontation and surprise victory is as unpredictable as a circle with no beginning and end.
At the beginning of the war, you should be as calm and weak as a virgin, luring the enemy to open the door wide and be unprepared; then when the time comes, be as fast and agile as an escaped rabbit, leaving the enemy with no time to defend. This is exactly how Tian Dan uses his troops!
At the beginning, when Naochi killed King Qi Min, the people of Jucheng were looking for King Qi Min's son Fazhang, and found him at Tai Shiyan's home. He was plowing and watering the fields for others.
Tai Shi's daughter liked him and was very kind to him.
Later, Fazhang told her his situation, and she had an affair with Fazhang.
When the people of Jucheng jointly supported Fa Zhang as the king of Qi and used Jucheng to fight against the Yan army, Taishi Yan's daughter was made the queen. This is what people call the "queen queen".
When the Yan army first invaded the Qi State, they heard that Wang Yu, a native of Huayi, was a talented man, so he ordered the army to say: No entry is allowed within thirty miles around Huayi. This is because of Wang Li.
Soon, the Yan State sent someone to say to Wang Zhu: "Many people in the Qi State praise your noble character. We will appoint you as a general and grant you 10,000 households of food."


Chunk 4: 
original: 
蠋固谢。
燕人曰： 子不听，吾引三军而屠画邑。
王蠋曰： 忠臣不事二君，贞女不更二夫。
齐王不听吾谏，故退而耕於野。
国既破亡，吾不能存；今又劫之以兵为君将，是助桀为暴也。
与其生而无义，固不如烹！
遂经其颈於树枝，自奋绝脰而死。
齐亡大夫闻之，曰： 王蠋，布衣也，义不北面於燕，况在位食禄者乎！
乃相聚如莒，求诸子，立为襄王。
translation: 
Wang Yi firmly refused and refused to accept.
The people of Yan said: If you are unwilling to accept it, we will lead the army and slaughter the city!
Wang Pei said: A loyal minister cannot serve two monarchs, and a loyal woman will not remarry a second husband.
The King of Qi did not listen to my advice, so I lived in seclusion and farmed in the countryside.
Now the state of Qi has been destroyed, and I cannot revive it. Now you are using force to kidnap me to be your general. If I agree, it will mean that I am helping King Jie to commit violence.
Rather than live and do this unjust thing, it would be better to be cooked to death!
Then he hung his neck on a branch, struggled hard, broke his neck and died.
When the fleeing officials of Qi heard about this, they said: "Wang Zhu is just a commoner. He can still stick to his moral integrity and refuse to surrender to the Yan people, let alone us serving officials who enjoy state salaries!"
So they gathered together and rushed to Jucheng to seek the son of King Qi Min and support him as King Qi Xiang.


