Chunk 0: 
original: 
《虞书》曰 乃同律度量衡 ，所以齐远近，立民信也。
自伏羲画八卦，由数起，至黄帝、尧、舜而大备。
三代稽古，法度章焉。
周衰官失，孔子陈后王之法，曰： 谨权量，审法度，修废官，举逸民，四方之政行矣。
汉兴，北平侯张苍首律历事，孝武帝时乐官考正。
至元始中，王莽秉政，欲耀名誉，征天下通知钟律者百余人，使羲和刘歆等典领条奏，言之最详。
故删其伪辞，取正义著于篇。
一曰备数，二曰和声，三曰审度，四曰嘉量，五曰权衡。
参五以变，错综其数，稽之于古今，效之于气物，和之于心耳，考之于经传，咸得其实，靡不协同。
数者，一、十、百、千、万也，所以算数事物，顺性命之理也。
《书》曰： 先其算命。
本起于黄钟之数，始于一而三之，三三积之，历十二辰之数，十有七万七千一百四十七，而五数备矣。
其算法用竹，径一分，长六寸，二百七十一枚而成六觚，为一握。
径象乾律黄钟之一，而长象坤吕林钟之长。
其数以《易》大衍之数五十，其用四十九，成阳六爻，得周流六虚之象也。
夫推历生律制器，规圜矩方，权重衡平，准绳嘉量，探赜索隐，钩深至远，莫不用焉。
度长短者不失毫厘，量多少者不失圭撮，权轻重者不失黍累。
纪于一，协于十，长于百，大于千，衍千万，其法在算术。
宣于天下，小学是则。
职在太史，羲和掌之。
声者，宫、商、角、徵、羽也。
所以作乐者，谐八音，荡涤人之邪意，全其正性，移风易俗也。
translation: 
"Yu Shu" said that the laws, measures, measures and weights were unified. This was to make the near and far consistent so that the people would have trust.
From Fuxi's Eight Diagrams, the numbers started from there, and by the time of Huangdi, Yao and Shun, they were complete.
During the Three Dynasties, after studying ancient affairs, the system of weights and measures became clearer.
The decline of the Zhou Dynasty was out of control, and Confucius stated the principles that future emperors should abide by, saying: Be careful with the weight and the dendrobium, treat the zhang and the ruler with caution, reorganize the dismissed officials, and recommend talents, then the politics of the world will be feasible.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Zhang Cang, the Marquis of Beiping, was the first to determine the laws and calendar, and the Leguan of the Emperor Xiaowu made further corrections.
During the Yuanshi period, Wang Mang took control of the government and wanted to gain fame, so he recruited more than 100 people from all over the world who were familiar with the rules of the bell. He asked Xi, Liu Xin and others to preside over the leadership and report in detail.
So delete the inaccurate words, choose the correct meanings, and write them into chapters.
The first is called perfect numbers, the second is called harmonious music, the third is called specific length standards, the fourth is called standard measuring instruments, and the fifth is called tools for weighing objects.
Or three or five, combine them, make changes, examine ancient and modern times, verify objects, coordinate hearing, and check scriptures, all are confirmed, and there is no inconsistency.
Numbers are one, ten, one hundred, one thousand, and ten thousand. They are used to calculate and count things and comply with the rules of human life.
"Shangshu" says: First, arithmetic must be established to name all things.
The law originally produced by Huang Zhong was multiplied by three from the beginning, and then multiplied by three. After multiplying the numbers twelve times, we got 170,000,147, that is, one multiplied by three to the eleventh power, and the numbers of the five elements were all ready.
Its calculation method is to use bamboo, one minute in diameter, six inches long, and use 271 pieces to form a hexagon, which is the number of one hand.
The diameter is like one-tenth of the yellow bell in the twelve rhythms and six yangs, and the length is like the length of the forest bells in the six yin.
Its number is based on the Dayan number five and ten in the "Book of Changes", and its number is forty-nine, which becomes the Yang Liu Yao, thus forming the phenomenon of the six Yao cycles becoming popular.
Deducing calendars, generating laws, making utensils, using compasses to draw circles, using moments to draw squares, weighing objects, measuring quantities, peering into the depths, searching for subtleties, sketching and depicting things that are profound and far-reaching, there are all things that cannot be counted.
The length can be measured within a millimeter, the capacity can be measured within a millimeter, and the weight can be measured within a millimeter.
If the number exceeds one, the sum exceeds ten, the length exceeds one hundred, the size exceeds one thousand, and the calculation exceeds ten thousand, calculation all depends on the method of calculation.
Disclosure to the world is the principle of primary school.
The responsibility lies with Taishi, and Xihe is in charge of Lu.
Sound is Gong, Shang, Jiao, Zheng, and Yu.
Making music is used to tune the eight tones, purify people's improper thoughts, complete their upright nature, and change the atmosphere and customs.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
八音：土曰埙，匏曰笙，皮曰鼓，竹曰管，丝曰弦，石曰磬，金曰钟，木曰祝。
五声和，八音谐，而乐成。
商之为言章也，物成孰可章度也。
角，触也，物触地而出，戴芒角也。
宫，中也，居中央，暢四方，唱始施生，为四声纲也。
徵，祉也，物盛大而繁祉也。
羽，宇也，物聚臧，宇覆之地。
夫声者，中于宫，触于角，祉于徵，章于商，宇于羽，故四声为宫纪也。
协之五行，则角为木，五常为仁，五事为貌。
商为金，为义，为言；徵为火，为礼，为视；羽为水，为智，为听；宫为土，为信，为思。
以君、臣、民、事、物言之，则宫为君，商为臣，角为民，徵为事，羽为物。
唱和有象，故言君臣位事之体也。
五声为本，生于黄种之律。
九寸为宫，或损或益，以定商、角、徵、羽。
九六相生，阴阳之应也。
律十有二，阳六为律，阴六为吕。
律以统气类物，一曰黄钟，二曰太族，三曰姑洗，四曰蕤宾，五曰夷则，六曰亡射。
吕以旅阳宣气，一曰林钟，二曰南吕，三曰应钟，四曰大吕，五曰夹钟，六曰中吕。
有三统之义焉。
其传曰，黄帝之所作也。
黄帝使泠纶自大夏之西，昆仑之阴，取竹之解谷，生其窍厚均者，断两节间而吹之，以为黄钟之宫。
制十二筒以听凤之鸣，其雄鸣为六，雌鸣亦六，比黄钟之宫，而皆可以生之，是为律本。
至治之世，天地之气合以生风；天地之风气正，十二律定。
黄钟：黄者，中之色，君之服也；钟者，种也。
天之中数五，五为声，声上宫，五声莫大焉。
地之中数六，六为律，律有形有色，色上黄，五色莫盛焉。
translation: 
The eight kinds of musical instruments include: those made of earth are called xun, those made of gourds are called sheng, those made of leather are called drums, those made of bamboo are called pipes, those made of silk are called strings, those made of stone are called chimes, those made of metal are called bells, and those made of wood are called blessings.
The five tones are in harmony, the eight tones are in harmony, and the music is complete.
The quotient is the most pronounced in sound and can be clearly measured when the substance matures.
The horns are the horns, which are the pointed leaves grown from the seedlings when the plants break through the ground.
The palace is the middle, located in the center, with smooth flow in all directions. It is the first to start and is the decisive part among the four tones.
Symbols are blessings, and the grandness of objects brings blessings.
Yu is the word, and objects are gathered and hidden under the universe.
The sound, with the palace as the center, slowly starts from the horn, gradually becomes stronger when it reaches Zheng, becomes more significant when it reaches Shang, and expands to the entire universe when it reaches Yu, so the four tones become the fifth tones.
Using the five elements to coordinate, then the horn is wood, the five constants are benevolence, and the five things are appearance.
Shang is gold, righteousness, and speech; Zheng is fire, etiquette, and vision; Yu is water, wisdom, and hearing; palace is earth, faith, and thinking.
If we talk about the king, ministers, people, things, and things, then the palace is the king, the merchant is the minister, the horn is the people, the levy is the thing, and the feather is the thing.
One sings and the other harmonizes, echoing each other, so using the status of the monarch and his ministers to discuss is the ontology of things.
The foundation of the five tones comes from the rhythm of Huang Zhong.
Jiucun is used as the palace tune, either increasing or decreasing, to determine Shang, Jiao, Zheng, and Yu.
The intricate alternation of nine and six is ​​the result of the mutual echo of yin and yang.
There are twelve laws, among which six Yang is the law and six Yin is the Lu.
The law is used to control the breath and imitate things. One is called Huangzhong, the second is called Taiyun, the third is called Guxi, the fourth is called Ruibin, the fifth is called Yibei, and the sixth is called Wushe.
Lu is used to concentrate the heavenly sun to emit breath. One is called Lin Zhong, the second is called Nan Lu, the third is called Ying Zhong, the fourth is called Da Lu, the fifth is called Jia Zhong and the sixth is called Zhong Lu.
It has the meaning of three unifications.
According to legend, it was made by the Yellow Emperor.
Huangdi sent Ling Lun to the west from Daxia to the north of Kunlun Mountain. He cut down the bamboo growing in Jiegu, and took the bamboos with uniform thickness inside and outside the holes. He cut off the middle parts of the two sections and used them for blowing, which became the rhythm of Huang Zhong.
Twelve bamboo tubes are made to listen to the call of the phoenix. The male calls six times and the female calls six times. According to the rhythm of the yellow bell, the up and down can complement each other, so it is the foundation of the rhythm.
In an era when the world was extremely peaceful, the combination of the weather and the earth's atmosphere produced wind; when the atmosphere of the heaven and earth was correct, the twelve laws were established.
Yellow bell: Yellow is the middle color, the monarch's clothing; bell is the species.
The middle number of the sky is five, and five is the number of sound. There is no louder sound among the five sounds in the palace.
The middle number of the earth is six. Six is ​​the sound of the rhythm. The rhythm is tangible and colorful. The color advocates yellow. Among the five colors, there is no more gorgeous color than it.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
故阳气施种于黄泉，孳萌万物，为六气元也。
以黄色名元气律者，著宫声也。
宫以九唱六，变动不居，周流六虚。
始于子，在十一月。
大吕：吕，旅也，言阴大，旅助黄钟宣气而牙物也。
位于丑，在十二月。
太族：族，奏也，言阳气大，奏地而达物也。
位于寅，在正月，夹钟：言阴夹助太族宣四方之气而出种物也。
位于卯，在二月。
姑洗：洗，洁也，言阳气洗物辜浩之也。
位于辰，在三月。
中吕：言微阴始起未成，著于其中旅助姑洗宣气齐物也。
位于巳，在四月。
蕤宾：蕤，继也；宾，导也，言阳始导阴气使继养物也。
位于午，在五月。
林钟：林，君也，言阴气受任，助蕤宾君主种物使长大茂盛也。
位于未，在六月。
夷则：则，法也，言阳气正法度，而使阴气夷当伤之物也。
位于申，在七月。
南吕：南，任也，言阴气旅助夷则任成万物也。
位于酉，在八月。
亡射：射，厌也，言阳气究物，而使阴气毕剥落之，终而复始，亡厌已也。
位于戌，在九月。
应钟：言阴气应亡谢，该臧万物而杂阳阂种也。
位于亥，在十月。
三统者，天施，地化，人事之纪也。
十一月， 乾 之初九，阳气伏于地下，始著为一，万物萌动，钟于太阴，故黄钟为天统，律长九寸。
九者，所以究极中和，为万物元也。
《易》曰： 立天之道，曰阴与阳。
六月， 坤 之初六，阴气受任于太阳，继养化柔，万物生长，茂之于未，令种刚强大，故林钟为地统，律长六寸。
六者，所以含阳之施，茂之于六合之内，令刚柔有体也 立地之道，曰柔与刚。
translation: 
Therefore, Yang Qi is injected deep into the ground, causing all things to sprout and grow, becoming the first of the six Qi.
Using yellow to name the head of the Qi Rhythm is to highlight the palace sound.
The palace uses nine to sing six harmonies, which are constantly changing and flowing.
Starting from the sub-position, in November.
Da Lu: Lu means Lu, which means that the Yin Qi is very strong, which together help Huang Zhong to clear the air flow and make all things sprout.
The palace is in the ugly position, in December.
Tai Cun: Cun means playing, which means that the Yang Qi is so strong that it affects the materials on the ground.
The palace is located in the Yin position, in the first month. Jia Zhong means that the Yin Qi on both sides of the body helps the Taifu to spread the air currents in all directions and make the materials planted in the ground grow.
The palace is located in Mao position, in February and February.
Gu Xi: Washing means cleansing, which means that the yang energy washing the substance will definitely make it clean.
The palace is in the Chen position, in March.
Zhonglu means that the very small yin energy has not yet formed at the beginning. Putting it on the wrapper helps to cleanse, vent, and adjust the air flow to regulate the substances.
The palace is in Si position, in April.
Ruibin: Rui means Ji, Bin means guide, which means that Yang Qi begins to guide Yin Qi so that it can continue to benefit all things.
The palace is in the noon position, in May.
Lin Zhong: Lin means king, which means that the yin energy accepts the task and helps Ruibin rule the sown things so that they grow luxuriantly.
The palace is in Wei position, in June.
Yi Ze: Ze is the law, which means that Yang Qi is used to correct the laws and Yin Qi is used to damage those substances that should be harmed.
The palace is located in Shen Wei, in July.
Nanlu; Nan means Ren, which means that Yin Qi is used to help and damage all things that are born.
The palace is in the unitary position, in August.
Wuji: Shooting means disgust, which means that the Yang Qi exhausts the matter and causes the Yin Qi to peel it off. After it is finished, it starts again, without satisfaction and exhaustion.
The palace is located in Xu position, in September.
Yingzhong means that the Yin energy echoes Wuji, hiding everything, and the Yin energy is mixed with the Yang energy to block the sown matter.
The palace is in Hai position, in October.
The Three Unifications are the records of what God has done, what the earth has created, and what has been done in the world.
November is the ninth day of the hexagram "Qian". At this time, Yang Qi is lurking under the ground and appears as one body at the beginning. All things begin to sprout and grow. The seeds are planted in places where Yin Qi is extremely strong. Therefore, the yellow bell is the orthodoxy of heaven, and the length of the law is nine inches.
Nine is used to investigate and neutralize, and is the head of all things.
"Book of Changes" says: The laws that establish heaven are Yin and Yang.
June is the sixth day of the hexagram "Kun". Yin Qi is nurtured from the place where Yang Qi is extremely strong, and is used to continue to cultivate all things so that they can begin to sprout, allowing all things to grow, become lush in the Wei position, and make the seeds strong and strong. Therefore, Lin Zhong is the orthodoxy of the earth, and the law is six inches long.
Sixth, because it contains the emanation of yang energy, it prevails in the four directions of heaven and earth, making hardness and softness have their own bodies. The laws that establish the earth are hardness and softness.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
乾 知太始， 坤 作成物。
正月， 乾 之九三，万物棣通，族出于寅，人奉而成之，仁以养之，义以行之，令事物各得其理。
寅，木也，为仁；其声，商也，为义。
故太族为人统，律长八寸，象八卦，宓戏氏之所以顺天地，通神明，类万物之情也。 立人之道，日仁与义。
在天成象，在地成形。
后以裁成天地之道，辅相天地之宜，以左右民。
此三律之谓矣，是为三统。
其于三正也，黄钟，子，为天正；林钟，未之冲丑，为地正；太族，寅，为人正。
三正正始，是以地正适其始纽于阳东北丑位。
《易》曰 东北丧朋，乃终有庆 ，答应之道也。
及黄钟为宫，则太族、姑洗、林钟、南吕皆以正声应，无有忽微，不复与它律为役者，同心一统之义也。
非黄钟而它律，虽当其月自宫者，则其和应之律有空积忽微，不得其正。
此黄钟至尊，亡与并也。
《易》曰： 参天两地而倚数。
天之数始于一，终于二十有五。
其义纪之以三，故置一得三又二十五分之六，凡二十五置，终天之数，得八十一，以天地五位之合终于十者乘之，为八百一十分，应历一统千五百三十九岁之章数，黄钟之实也。
繇此之义，起十二律之周径。
地之数始于二，终于三十。
其义纪之以两，故置一得二，凡三十置，终地之数，得六十，以地中数六乘之，为三百六十分，当期之日，林钟之实。
人者，继天顺地，序气成物，统八卦，调八风，理八政，正八节，谐八音，舞八佾，监八方，被八荒，以终天地之功，故八八六十四。
translation: 
The "Qian" hexagram can know the original, and the "Kun" hexagram can generate all things.
In the first month of the first month, in the ninth and third lines of the "Qian" hexagram, all things begin to ventilate and gather together to grow in the Yin time. Human beings hold it and shape it, raise it with benevolence and treat it with morality, so that things can each obtain their own laws of development.
The Yin position belongs to wood, which is the benevolence in the Wuchang; its sound is Shangdiao, which is the righteousness in the Wuchang.
Therefore, Taizu is the orthodoxy of human beings. The law is eight inches long, just like the Bagua. Fuxi used it to straighten out the heaven and earth, to understand the gods, and to deduce the conditions of all things. The principles of being a human being are benevolence and righteousness.
Celestial phenomena are formed in the sky, and physical forms are formed on the earth.
The king uses it to summarize and form the laws of heaven and earth, and use the reasonable laws of heaven and earth to regulate the people.
This is for the three laws, this is the three unifications.
The five tones are in the middle of the three, Huang Zhong is in the Zi position, which is Tianzheng, Lin Zhong is in Wei position, and the opposite is Chou position, which is Earth Zheng, and Taixu is in Yin position, which is Renzheng.
Sanzheng is used to correct the beginning, and the land is used to adapt to its ugly position of starting from Yangdongbei.
"Book of Changes" says that if the Northeast loses its kind, it will eventually be blessed. This is the law of yes and yes.
If Huang Zhong is the palace sound, then Taigu, Guxi, Lin Zhong, and Nanlu will all use the correct tone to correspond. There is nothing superfluous and will no longer be used by other rhythmic sounds. This is the moral principle of working together.
If you don't use the yellow bell but use other temperament, even if it is a palace tune based on the month it is in, the corresponding temperament will be different, and its correct pitch cannot be obtained.
This is why Huang Zhong is so high up there that there is nothing parallel to it.
The book "Book of Changes" says: The odd numbers of the sky and the even numbers of the earth form numbers.
The number of days starts with one and their sum is twenty-five.
Its meaning is to count with three, so if you put one, you get three, and there are six-twenty-fifths. Put twenty-five in total, which is the number of the end of the world, and you get eighty-one. Multiply the last number of the five digits of heaven and earth by ten, and you get eight hundred and ten, which confirms that the calendar has a chapter number of one thousand five hundred and thirty-nine years. This is the cumulative number of Huang Zhong.
With this meaning, the diameter of the twelve laws is formed.
The numbers of earth begin with two and their sum is thirty.
Its meaning is to count by two, so if you put one, you get two. Put three or four in total, which is the number of the final land, and you get sixty. Use the central number six of the land to multiply sixty, and you get 360, which is exactly the number of days in a year. This is Lin Zhong's accumulated number.
Man inherits the will of heaven and obeys the will of the earth, regulates Qi to form things, directs the eight trigrams, mobilizes the eight winds, governs the eight political affairs, corrects the eight knots, harmonizes the eight tones, dances the eight hundred, monitors the eight directions, travels the eight wilderness, and uses it to complete all the achievements of the heaven and the earth, so eight times eight equals sixty-four.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
其义极天地之变，以天地五位之合终于十者乘之，为六百四十分，以应六十四卦，大族之实也。
《书》曰： 天功人其代之。
天兼地，人则天，故以五位之合乘焉， 唯天为大，唯尧则之 之象也。
地以中数乘者，阴道理内，在中馈之象也。
三统相通，故黄钟、林钟、太族律长皆全寸而亡余分也。
天之中数五，地之中数六，而二者为合。
六为虚，五为声，周流于六虚。
虚者，爻律夫阴阳，登降运行，列为十二，而律吕和矣。
太极元气，函三为一。
极，中也。
元，始也。
行于十二辰，始动于子。
参之于丑，得三。
又参之于寅，得九。
又参之于卯，得二十七。
又参之于辰，得八十一。
又参之于巳，得二百四十三。
又参之于午，得七百二十九。
又参之于未，得二千一百八十七。
又参之于申，得六千五百六十一。
又参之于酉，得万九千六百八十三。
又参之于戌，得五万九千四十九。
又参之于亥，得十七万七千一百四十七。
此阴阳合德，气钟于子，化生万物者也。
故孳萌于子，纽牙于丑，引达于寅，冒茆于卯，振美于辰，已盛于巳，咢布于午，昧暧于未，申坚于申，留孰于酉，毕入于戌，该阂于亥。
出甲于甲，奋轧于乙，明炳于丙，大盛于丁，丰茂于戊，理纪于己，敛更于庚，悉新于辛，怀任于壬，陈揆于癸。
故阴阳之施化，万物之终始，既类旅于律吕，又经历于日辰，而变化之情可见矣。
玉衡杓建，天之纲也；日月初躔，星之纪也。
纲纪之交，以原始造设，合乐用焉。
律吕唱和，以育生成化，歌奏用焉。
指顾取象，然后阴阳万物靡不条鬯该成。
translation: 
Its meaning includes all the changes in heaven and earth. Multiply the last tens of the five digits of heaven and earth by sixty-four to get six hundred and forty points, which corresponds to the sixty-four hexagrams. This is the accumulated number of Taiku.
"Shangshu" says: The merits of heaven are taken over by humans.
Heaven has both earth and heaven, so heaven is the standard, so we multiply them by the sum of the five digits of the sky. Only heaven is the largest, so Yao followed the laws of heaven.
The reason why the earth is multiplied by the center number is because the law of Yin Qi is to preside over the interior, just like in the middle lock position.
The three lines are interconnected, so Huang Zhong, Lin Zhong, and Tai Ku have all reached the level of law, without any extra points.
The middle number of the heaven number is five, and the middle number of the earth number is six, both of which are combined.
The sixth is the Yao position, and the fifth is the sound position, which flows continuously in the four directions of heaven and earth.
Xu, Yao positions and laws have yin and yang, and they move up and down, a total of twelve, so that the laws and Lu are in harmony with each other.
In the original chaotic energy, heaven, earth and man are mixed into one.
Extreme means Zhongzheng.
Yuan means beginning.
It starts at the midnight hour and runs in the twelve hours.
When you are ugly, use the number of three multipliers to get three.
In the Yin hour, multiply three by the number of the Chou hour, and you get nine.
At Mao hour, multiply three by the number of Yin hour, and you get twenty-seven.
In Chen hour, multiply three by the number of Mao hour, and you get eighty-one.
At Si Shi, multiply the number of Chen hours by three, and you get two hundred and forty-three.
At noon, multiply the number of Si hours by three, and you get seven hundred and twenty-nine.
At the last hour, multiply the number of noon hours by three, and you get two thousand one hundred and eighty-seven.
At the time of application, multiply the number by three times the number at the time of application, and you get six thousand five hundred and sixty-one.
And in Youshi, multiply the number of Shenshi by three, and you get 19,683.
In Xu Shi, he multiplied the number of You Shi by three, and got fifty-nine thousand and forty-nine.
In the Hai hour, we multiplied the number of Xu hours by three, and we got one hundred and seventy-seven thousand one hundred and forty-seven.
This is because the yin and yang are in harmony, and the qi is spread in the child and used to generate all things.
Therefore, it is nourished in the Zi hour, sprouts in the Chou hour, grows slowly in the Yin hour, emerges from the ground in the Mao hour, strives to grow upward in the Chen hour, becomes strong in the Si hour, is full of flowers in the noon hour, begins to have flavor in the Wei hour, maintains its own shape in the Shen hour, harvests the mature ones in the You hour, harvests all in the Xu hour, and collects them all in the Hai hour.
In A, the carapace comes out, in B, it rolls out, in C, it is obvious, in D, it is strong and strong, in Wu, it is abundant and dense, in Wu, it has a visible form, in Geng, it converges and changes, in Xin, it is a new harvest, in Ren, it is pregnant, and in Gui, it is measured.
Therefore, the execution and transformation of yin and yang, and the end and beginning of all things, not only proceed according to the laws and regulations, but also pass through Ya, Yue and Chen. Such changes can be seen.
The direction of the Beidou Yuheng and the handle of the ladle is the key point of the sky; the position where the sun and the moon begin to move is the order of the stars.
Gang and Ji cooperate with each other to form the original state, which is used to match the music.
Lu Lu, one chant and one harmony, was born and evolved through nurturing, and is used for singing and playing.
The handle of the bucket indicates that the stars are accurate, and then all things Yin and Yang are smooth and complete.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
故以成之数忖该之积如法为一寸，则黄钟之长也。
参分损一，下生林钟。
参分林钟益一，上生太族。
参分太族损一，下生南吕。
参分南吕益一，上生姑洗。
参分姑洗损一，下生应钟。
参分应钟益一，上生蕤宾。
参分蕤宾损一，下生大吕。
参分大吕益一，上生夷则。
参分夷则损一，下生夹钟。
参分夹钟益一，上生亡射。
参分亡射损一，下生中吕。
阴阳相生，自黄钟始而左旋，八八为伍。
其法皆用铜。
职在大乐，太常掌之。
度者，分、寸、尺、丈、引也，所以度长短也。
本起黄钟之长。
以子谷秬黍中者，一黍之广，度之九十分，黄钟之长。
一为一分，十分为寸，十寸为尺，十尺为丈，十丈为引，而五度审矣。
其法用铜，高一寸，广二寸，长一丈，而分、寸、尺、丈存焉。
用竹为引，高一分，广六分，长十丈，其方法矩，高广之数，阴阳之象也。
分者，自三微而成著，可分别也。
寸者，忖也。
尺者，蒦也。
丈者，张也。
引者，信也。
夫度者，别于分，忖于寸，蒦尺，张于丈，信于引。
引者，信天下也。
职在内官，廷尉掌之。
量者，龠、合、升、斗、斛也，所以量多少也。
本起于黄钟之龠，用度数审其容，以子谷秬黍中者千有二百实其龠，以井水准其概。
合龠为合，十合为升，十升为斗，十斗为斛，而五量嘉矣。
其法用铜，方尺而圜其外，旁有庣焉。
其上为斛，其下为斗。
左耳为升，右耳为合龠。
translation: 
Therefore, divide the established number by the product number. According to the rule, one inch is the length of the yellow bell.
Divide the length of Huang Zhong into three equal parts and subtract one of them, which is the length of Lin Zhong.
Divide Lin Zhong's length into three equal parts and add one more, which is the length of Tai Ku.
Divide Taifu into three equal parts and subtract one of them, which is the length of Nanlu.
Divide Nanluping into three and add one more, which is the length of Guxi.
Divide Guxi into three equal parts and subtract one of them, which is the length of the bell.
Divide Ying Zhong into three equal parts and add the length of one of them to get the length of Ruibin.
Divide Ruibin into three equal parts and subtract one of them, which is the length of Da Lu.
Divide Da Luping into three parts and increase the length of one of them, which is the length of Yize.
Divide Yize into three equal parts and subtract one of them, which is the length of the bell.
Divide the bell into three equal parts and increase the length of one of them, which is the length of Wuji.
Divide Wushe into three equal parts and subtract the length of one of them, which is the length of Zhonglu.
Yin and Yang complement each other, starting from the yellow bell and forming a pair.
These rules must be embodied in copper instruments.
Its responsibility lies with Dalueguan, who is in charge of Taichang.
Degrees include minutes, inches, feet, feet, and yin, which are used to measure length.
Originally originated from the length of the yellow bell.
Measured by the medium size of millet and black millet, the width of one millet is ninety cents, which is exactly the length of Huang Zhong.
A unit is one minute, ten inches is one inch, ten inches is one foot, ten feet is one foot, and ten feet is one foot. In this way, the five units of measuring length are clear.
The method of making it is to cast it from copper. The height is one inch, the width is two inches, and the length is one foot. In this way, the minutes, inches, feet, and feet are all preserved.
It is made of bamboo, one point high, six points wide, and ten feet long. Its square shape is made according to the rules. The numbers of the height and width are the specific embodiment of yin and yang.
Dividing means grouping many extremely small things together to make them more noticeable, and can be used to distinguish things.
Cun means thinking, which can be inferred and considered.
Chi is a vine, used to standardize length.
Zhang means Zhang, which means to measure.
To lead means to believe and to extend.
Therefore, degrees are distinguished by minutes, measured by inches, standardized by rulers, measured by feet, and extended by rulers.
To lead means to stretch infinitely.
The responsibilities are among the internal officials, and are in charge of the Tingwei.
The tools for measuring volume include 頠, 合, liter, dou, and 斛, which are used to measure quantity.
Originally originated from the bamboo tube of Huang Zhong, the number of length is used to determine how much it can hold. One thousand two hundred medium-sized millet and black millet are used to fill the bamboo tube, and well water is used to make it smooth.
The quantity of one yellow bell bamboo tube is one unit, ten units is one liter, ten liters is one bucket, and ten buckets is one dendrobium. In this way, the five measuring instruments are complete.
The production method is to cast it with copper, and then use a square ruler to make the outside into a circle, with the remaining part on the side.
The top is used for dendrobium, and the bottom is used for fighting.
The left ear is Sheng, and the right ear is Hehe He.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
其状似爵，以縻爵禄。
上三下二，参天两地，圜而函方，左一右二，阴阳之象也。
其圜象规，其重二钧，备气物之数，合万有一千五百二十。
声中黄钟，始于黄钟而反覆焉，君制器之象也。
龠者，黄钟律之实也，跃微动气而生物也。
合者，合龠之量也。
升者，登合之量也。
斗者，聚升之量也。
斛者，角斗平多少之量也。
夫量者，跃于龠，合于合，登于升，聚于斗，角于斛也。
职在太仓，大司农掌之。
衡权者：衡，平也；权，重也，衡所以任权而均物平轻重也。
其道如底，以见准之正，绳之直，左旋见规。
右折见矩，其在天也，佐助旋机，斟酌建指，以齐七政，故曰玉衡。
《论语》云： 立则见其参于前也，在车则见其倚于衡也。 又曰： 齐之以礼。
此衡在前居南方之义也。
权者，铢、两、斤、钧、石也，所以称物平施，知轻重也。
本起于黄钟之重，一龠容千二百黍，重十二铢，两之为两。
二十四铢为两。十六两为斤。
三十斤为钧。
四钧为石。
忖为十八，《易》十有八变之象也。
五权之制，以义立之，以物钧之，其余小大之差，以轻重为宜。
圜而环之，令之肉倍好者，周旋无端，终而复始，无穷已也。
铢者，物繇忽微始，至于成著，可殊异也。
两者，两黄钟律之重也。
二十四铢而成两者，二十四气之象也。
斤者，明也，三百八十四铢，《易》二篇之爻，阴阳变动之象也。
十六两成斤者，四时乘四方之象也。
钧者，均也，阳施其气，阴化其物，皆得其成就平均也。
权与物均，重万一千五百二十铢，当万物之象也。
四百八十两者，六旬行八节之象也。
三十斤成钧者，一月之象也。
石者，大也，权之大者也。
始于铢，两于两，明于斤，均于钧，终于石，物终石大也。
translation: 
It is shaped like a knight's vessel and is used to distribute titles and salaries.
There are three on the top and two on the bottom. The sky is an odd number and the earth is an even number. There are squares in the circle, one on the left and two on the right. This is the specific expression of yin and yang.
Its circle is like a compass, weighing two pieces, and possessing the numbers of the atmosphere and all things, totaling eleven thousand five hundred and twenty.
The sound is consistent with the yellow bell. Starting from the length of the yellow bell, it repeatedly loses and gains one-third. This is the monarch's method of making utensils.
The 龠 is the long volume of the yellow bell. The slight beat and the air flow create all things.
He is the quantity added together.
A liter is a higher capacity than a unit.
A bucket is the capacity to hold liters together.
Dendrobium is the capacity of a bucket filled with horns.
The measuring instrument starts from the horn, goes to the conjunction to meet, to rises to rise, to the bucket to meet, and uses the horn to measure the dendrobium.
Its responsibilities are in Taicang and are in charge of Da Sinong.
Weighing weight means doing things right, and Quan means adding weight. Use a scale and hammer to evenly distribute the material to make it balanced.
Its method is like sharpening a stone to make it flat. It is used to express the straightness of the sight and the straightness of the rope. Turning to the left is a rule, and turning to the right is a moment.
It is in the sky, used to assist the Xuanji Star of the Big Dipper, to determine the direction of the handle of the Dipper, and to coordinate the sun, moon, five stars and seven political affairs, so it is called Yuheng.
The Analects of Confucius says: When you are standing, you see it sitting in front of you; when you are in the car, you see it leaning on the crossbar on the shaft of the car.
He also said: Use rituals to discipline them. This means that Heng is in front and in the south.
The units for weighing objects include baht, liang, catty, jun, and stone. They are rulers used to weigh the balance of objects and find out their weight.
Originally originated from the weight of the yellow bell. A yellow bell bamboo tube holds 1,200 grains of millet and weighs twelve baht. Twice the twelve baht is one tael.
There are twenty-four baht per tael. Sixteen taels is one pound.
Thirty pounds is one hook.
Four Jun are one stone.
There are estimated to be eighteen bells, symbolizing the eighteen changing situations in the Book of Changes.
The establishment of the five-power system is established by definitions and measured by objects. It is more appropriate to use weight to distinguish the remaining differences in size.
The hammer is in the shape of a ring, and there are many small holes in its shape to allow it to change indefinitely. When it reaches the end, it starts over again, and the cycle is endless.
Baht means that the object starts from being very small and gradually grows more obvious, which can be used to distinguish between different objects.
Two means twice as heavy as the Huang Zhong Luguan.
One liang is formed from twenty-four baht, which is the expression of the twenty-four solar terms.
Jin means significant, with a total of three hundred and eighty-four baht. It is the number of lines in the second chapter of "Zhouyi" and is the expression of the changes of yin and yang.
Sixteen taels form a pound, which means multiplying the four seasons by the four directions.
Hook means average. When Yang Qi is cast and Yin Qi transforms all things, average results can be obtained.
If the weight of the scale and the object are equal, the weight will be 11,520 baht, which is exactly the representation of all things.
Four hundred and eighty taels is a symbol of the eight festivals in the sixty-year cycle.
Thirty kilograms form a jun, which represents a month.
Shi means big and is the unit with the largest weight.
Starting from baht, twice the baht is two, then it is more obvious when it reaches kilogram, it is more average when it reaches jun, it is the heaviest unit when it reaches stone, and the weight unit of an object is the heaviest unit when it reaches stone.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
四钧为石者，四时之象也。
重百二十斤者，十二月之象也。
终于十二辰而复于子，黄钟之象也。
千九百二十两者，阴阳之数也。
三百八十四爻，五行之象也。
四万六千八十铢者，万一千五百二十物历四时之象也。
而岁功成就，五权谨矣。
权与物钧而生衡，衡运生规，规圜生矩，矩方生绳，绳直生准，准正则平衡而钧权矣。
是为五则。
规者，所以规圜器械，令得其类也。
矩者，矩方器械，令不失其形也。
规矩相须，阴阳位序，圜方乃成。
准者，所以揆平取正也。绳者，上下端直，经纬四通也。
准绳连体，衡权合德，百工繇焉，以定法式，辅弼执玉，以冀天子。
《诗》云： 尹氏大师，秉国之钧，四方是维，天子是毘，俾民不迷。
咸有五象，其义一也。
以阴阳言之，大阴者，北方。
北，伏也，阳气伏于下，于时为冬。
冬，终也，物终臧，乃可称。
水润下。
知者谋，谋者重，故为权也。大阳者，南方。
南，任也，阳气任养物，于时为夏。
夏，假也，物假大，乃宣平。
火炎上。
礼者齐，齐者平，故为衡也。少阴者，西方。
西，迁也，阴气迁落物，于时为秋。
秋也，物敛，乃成孰。
金从革，改更也。
义者成，成者方，故为矩也。少阳者，东方。
东，动也，阳气动物，于时为春。
春，蠢也，物蠢生，乃动运。
木曲直。
仁者生，生者圜，故为规也。
中央者，阴阳之内，四方之中，经纬通达，乃能端直，于时为四季。
土稼啬蕃息。
信者诚，诚者直，故为绳也。
五则揆物，有轻重、圜方、平直、阴阳之义，四方、四时之体，五常、五行之象。
厥法有品，各顺其方而应其行。
translation: 
The four stones forming one stone represent the four seasons of the year.
It weighs one hundred and twenty kilograms, indicating that there are twelve months in a year.
It stops at the twelfth hour and starts at the twelfth hour, which is exactly the expression of the weight of the yellow bell.
One thousand nine hundred and twenty taels is the number of yin and yang.
Three hundred and eighty-four lines represent the five elements.
Forty-six thousand and eighty baht is the expression of eleven thousand five hundred and twenty things passing through four seasons.
In this way, the merits of the first year of life are achieved, and the five-power system becomes strict.
When the weight and the object are flat, a state of equilibrium is formed. When the scale rod moves, it forms a compass. A circle drawn with the compass forms a rectangle. When the square is square, it forms a rope. When the rope is straight, it forms a Ding. If it is aligned, the scale rod will be straight and the scale weight will be balanced.
These are the five principles.
A compass is an instrument used to draw circles so that they resemble each other.
Moments are tools for drawing squares so that they cannot be deformed.
Rules and moments cooperate with each other, the positions of yin and yang are orderly, and circles and squares are formed.
Accuracy is used to measure straightness and make objects straight. The rope is straight up and down, with smooth warp and latitude.
Accuracy and rope are connected together, and weight and power are in harmony. All kinds of craftsmen must use it to determine the laws, just like the chief minister holding a jade scepter to assist the emperor.
"The Book of Songs" says: The Yin family was appointed as the Grand Master, taking charge of the power of the country, maintaining the four directions, assisting the emperor, and keeping the people from confusion.
There are five images, and they all have the same meaning.
Using the metaphor of yin and yang, then Taiyin is the north.
North means "volt", the Yang energy is dormant underground, and it is winter seasonally.
Winter means the end. All things hide all day long, so they can be weighed.
Water moistens low-lying materials.
The wise are good at strategizing, and those who are strategist are important, so they create power. The sun is in the south.
South is fertility, Yang Qi nourishes all things, and it is summer seasonally.
Xia is fake. If the object is big, just flatten it.
The fire roasted the top.
Those who know etiquette can regulate things, and those who regulate things can be fair, so balance is created. Shaoyin is in the west.
To the west is to move, and the Yin Qi causes all things to wither. Seasonally it is already autumn.
Autumn means retribution. When everything converges, it means it is mature.
The characteristic of gold is transformation, change and starting over.
People who have a sense of justice are successful, and successful people are upright, so they create justice. Shaoyang is in the east.
East means movement. Yang Qi makes all things sprout. In terms of season, it is spring.
Spring means stupidity, everything is ready to move and begins to move.
The wood changes from curved to straight.
People who are benevolent can survive, and people who can survive are more tactful, so rules are made.
In the center, within the yin and yang, and in the four directions, the longitude and latitude are smooth, so that it can be upright and straight. This is in the four seasons of the year.
Crops can grow in the soil.
A pious person has a sincere heart, and a sincere person is upright, so he made the rope.
The five principles are used to measure objects, which have the meanings of lightness, weight, roundness, squareness, flatness, straightness, yin and yang, and the similarities of the four seasons, the five constants and the five elements.
There are different types of laws, each running in its own direction.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
职在大行，鸿胪掌之。
《书》曰： 予欲闻六律、五声、八音、七始咏，以出内五言，女听。
予者，帝舜也。
言以律吕和五声，施之八音，合之成乐。
七者，天地四时人之始也。
顺以歌咏五常之言，听之则顺乎天地，序乎四时，应人伦，本阴阳，原情性，风之以德，感之以乐，莫不同乎一。
唯圣人为能同天下之意，故帝舜欲闻之也。
今广延群儒，博谋讲道，修明旧典，同律，审度，嘉量，平衡，均权，正准，直绳，立于五则，备数和声，以利兆民，贞天下于一，同海内之归。
凡律、度、量、衡用铜者，各自名也，所以同天下，齐风俗也。
铜为物之至精，不为燥湿、寒暑变其节，不为风雨、暴露改其形，介然有常，有似于士君子之行，是以用铜也。
用竹为引者，事之宜也。
历数之起上矣。
传述颛顼命南正重司天，火正黎司地，其后三苗乱德，二官咸废，而闰余乖次，孟陬殄灭，摄提失方。
尧复育重、黎之后，使纂其业，故《书》曰： 乃命羲、和，钦若昊天，历象日月星辰，敬授民时。
岁三百有六旬有六日，以闰月定四时成岁，允厘百官，众功皆美。
其后以授舜曰： 咨尔舜，天之历数在尔躬。
舜亦以命禹。
至周武王访箕子，箕子言大法九章，而五纪明历法。
故自殷、周，皆创业改制，咸正历纪，服色从之，顺其时气，以应天道。
三代既没，五伯之末，史官丧纪，畴人子弟分散，或在夷狄，故其所记，有《黄帝》、《颛顼》、《夏》、《殷》、《周》及《鲁历》。
translation: 
The responsibility lies with Dahang and Honglu is in charge.
"Shangshu" said: I want to know the six rhythms, five tones, eight tones, and seven beginnings of the song, which is used to announce the five words to the world. You can also listen to it.
The person I am here is Emperor Shun.
To make a sentence, it means to use the lulu to coordinate the five tones and play them on eight musical instruments, thus synthesizing them into music.
Seven refers to the beginning of heaven, earth, four seasons, and humans.
Pair them with the tunes of the Five Constant Principles, and when you hear them, you can follow the heaven and earth, abide by the laws of the four seasons, conform to human relations, keep Yin and Yang, and follow human temperament. It is the same principle to influence with virtue and move with music.
Only wise people can agree with the people in the world, so Emperor Shun wanted to know.
Now we have widely recruited many Confucian scholars, and after detailed discussions, we will clarify the principles, revise the old system, unify the law system, detail the system, perfect the quantity system, the equal balance system, the equal power system, the correct standard system, the straight rope system, based on the five laws, so that thousands of numbers can be in harmony, and thousands of sounds can be harmonious, so as to benefit the people of the world, make everyone in the world embark on the same righteous path, and return to the same destination at home and abroad.
All musical instruments, measuring instruments, measuring instruments, and weighing instruments are all made of copper, which are homophonic for copper, and are used to unify the world and regulate customs.
Copper is the essence of all things. It does not change its nature due to dryness, dampness, cold, or heat. It does not change its shape due to wind, rain, sun and night dew. It is single-minded and unchanging, and has the character of a scholar and gentleman, so copper is used.
Bamboo is used as a guide because it is more convenient to make.
The rise of calendar reckoning is very old.
Legend has it that Zhuanxu appointed Nan Zhengzhong to be in charge of astronomy and Huo Zhengli to be in charge of geography. Later, Sanmiao became morally corrupt and both officials were deposed. As a result, the remaining days of the year were confused, the first month disappeared, and Jupiter was in the wrong position.
Emperor Yao re-raised the descendants of officials Chong and Li and allowed them to inherit the ancestral business, so the "Book of Secretaries" says: So he appointed Xi and He to respect and obey God, observe and calculate the movements of the sun, moon and stars, and let the people know the seasons.
There are three hundred and sixty-six months in a year. Leap months are used to adjust the four solar terms, forming the year of the year. They are used to manage hundreds of officials, and all kinds of achievements are very beautiful.
Later, he gave it to Shun and said: Shun, from now on the calendar of celestial bodies belongs to you.
Shun also said this to Yu.
When King Wu of Zhou Dynasty asked Jizi, Jizi told the nine categories of "Hongfan", among which the five periods explained the calendar.
Therefore, starting from the Yin and Zhou dynasties, they changed the system when establishing the throne, determined the calculation of the calendar, used corresponding colors of clothing, followed the seasonal solar terms, and catered to the laws of nature.
After the decline of the three generations, the historians after the Five Hegemons lost their records, and the Yusun who knew the calendar for generations were scattered, and some people went to Yi and Di. Therefore, what they recorded include the "Huangdi Calendar", "Zhuanxu Calendar", "Xia Li", "Shang Calendar", "Zhou Calendar" and "Lu Li".


Chunk 9: 
original: 
战国扰攘，秦兼天下，未皇暇也，亦颇推五胜，而自以获水德，乃以十月为正，色上黑。
汉兴，方纲纪大基，庶事草创，袭秦正朔。
以北平侯张苍言，用《颛顼历》，比于六历，疏阔中最为微近。
然正朔服色，未睹其真，而朔晦月见，弦望满亏，多非是。
至武帝元封七年，汉兴百二岁矣，大中大夫公孙卿、壶遂、太史令司马迁等言 历纪坏废，宜改正朔 。
是时御史大夫宽明经术，上乃诏宽曰： 与博士共议，今宜何以为正朔？
服色何上？
宽与博士赐等议，皆曰： 帝王必改正朔，易服色，所以明受命于天也。
创业变改，制不相复，推传序文，则今夏时也。
臣等闻学褊陋，不能明。
陛下躬圣发愤，昭配天地，臣愚以为三统之制，后圣复前圣者，二代在前也。
今二代之统绝而不序矣，唯陛下发圣德，宣考天地四时之极，则顺阴阳以定大明之制，为万世则。
于是乃诏御史曰： 乃者有司言历未定，广延宣问，以考星度，未能雠也。
盖闻古者黄帝合而不死，名察发敛，定清浊，起五部，建气物分数。
然则上矣。
书缺乐弛，朕甚难之。
依违以惟，未能修明。
其以七年为元年。
遂诏卿、遂、迁与侍郎尊、大典星射姓等议造《汉历》。
乃定东西，立晷仪，下漏刻，以追二十八宿相距于四方，举终以定朔晦分至，躔离弦望。
translation: 
During the Warring States Period, the world was in chaos. After the Qin Dynasty annexed the world, it was too late to change the calendar, but it also respected the five elements' mutual victory. In vain, thinking that it had obtained the virtue of water, it regarded October as the first month. Advocate the color black.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, the calendar of the Qin Dynasty was inherited as soon as the country's rules and regulations were established and everything was in its infancy.
He also adopted the suggestion of Zhang Cang, Marquis of Beiping, and used the "Zhuanxu Calendar". Compared with the other five calendars, it was the closest among the differences.
However, the calendar's calculation of the new moon and the colors of the clothes that should be honored have not yet obtained accurate methods. Moreover, the appearance of the moon at the new moon and dusk, as well as the moon's quarter, full and waning, are often different from the real situation.
By the seventh year of Emperor Wu's Yuanfeng reign, the Han Dynasty had been established for 102 years. Gongsun Qing, Hu Sui, Taishi Ling Sima Qian and others said that the calendar could no longer be used and should be corrected.
At this time, the imperial censor Ni Kuan knew the classics, so the emperor ordered Ni Kuan to say: "Go and discuss with the doctors how to calculate the new moon now?"
What colors should be advocated for clothing?
Ni Kuan discussed with Dr. Ci and others, and they all said: The emperor must change the calendar and the color of his clothing to show that he is receiving orders from heaven.
The system needs to be changed after the establishment, and there is no duplication. From the inference of historical documents, then Xia Zheng should be used now.
The knowledge of the ministers and others is narrow and shallow, and they cannot understand the principles of affairs.
Your Majesty has a holy virtue that matches heaven and earth. Your Majesty and others believe that in the systems of Xia, Shang and Zhou, future generations will repeat the previous generation because the second generation precedes them.
Now the system of the second generation has been extinct and has no records. I hope that Your Majesty will be virtuous, extensively examine the limits of the four seasons of heaven and earth, and adjust the yin and yang to determine the calendar, which will serve as the law for all generations.
So he issued an edict and ordered the censor to say: Not long ago, the competent department said that the calendar was not determined, and asked to summon more people to inquire about countermeasures to calculate the star degree of the calendar, but this matter has not been completed yet.
It is said that in ancient times, the Yellow Emperor could be in harmony with nature and not die. He could examine the progress and retreat based on the names, determine the clarity and turbidity of the rhythm, deduce the five elements, and establish the calculation of solar terms, all things, and the calendar.
But these are all very early days.
Nowadays there is a shortage of books and music is abandoned, and I feel very embarrassed about this matter.
After thinking about it, I still can't figure it out.
The seventh year of Yuanfeng was regarded as the first year of Taichu.
So he ordered Gongsun Qing, Hu Sui, and Sima Qian to discuss the creation of the "Han Calendar" with Shilang Zun, Dadian Xingshe, and others.
Begin to determine the direction, install a photometric instrument to determine the time, and place a timing clepsydra underneath to measure the distances of the twenty-eight constellations in the four directions, and finally determine the position and direction of the moon according to the Shuohui Calendar of the spring, autumnal equinox, winter, and summer solstice.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
乃以前历上元泰初四千六百一十七岁，至于元封七年，复得阏逢摄提格之岁，中冬十一月甲子朔旦冬至，日月在建星，太岁在子，已得太初本星度新正。
姓等奏不能为算，愿募治历者，更造密度，各自增减，以造《汉太初历》。
乃选治历邓平及长乐司马可、酒泉候宜君、侍郎尊及与民间治历者，凡二十余人，方士唐都、巴郡落下闳与焉。
都分天部，而闳运算转历。
其法以律起历，曰： 律容一龠，积八十一寸，则一日之分也。
与长相终。
律长九寸，百七十一分而终复。三复而得甲子。
夫律阴阳九六，爻象所从出也。
故黄钟纪元气之谓律。
律，法也，莫不取法焉。
与邓平所治同。
于是皆观新星度、日月行，更以算推，如闳、平法。
法，一月之日二十九日八十一分日之四十三。
先藉半日，名曰阳历；不藉，名曰阴历。
所谓阳历者，先朔月生；阴历者，朔而后月乃生。
平曰： 阳历朔皆先旦月生，以朝诸侯王群臣便。
乃诏迁用邓平所造八十一分律历，罢废尤疏远者十七家，复使校历律昏明。
宦者淳于陵渠复覆《太初历》晦、朔、弦、望，皆最密，日月如合璧，五星如连珠。
陵渠奏状，遂用邓平历，以平为太史丞。
后二十七年，元凤三年，太史令张寿王上书言： 历者天地之大纪，上帝所为。
传黄帝《调律历》，汉元年以来用之。
今阴阳不调，宜更历之过也。
诏下主历使者鲜于妄人诘问，寿王不服。
妄人请与治历大司农中丞麻光等二十余人杂候日、月、晦、朔、弦、望、八节、二十四气，钧校诸历用状。
奏可。
translation: 
According to the previous calendar, in the 4617th year of Taichu in the Yuan Dynasty, the year of Jiayin reappeared in the seventh year of Yuanfeng. The winter solstice was at dawn on the first day of Jiazi in mid-winter. The sun and moon were at the place where the stars were built. Tai Sui means that the correct value of the Taichu star degree has been obtained.
She Xing and others reported that they did not know how to calculate, and hoped to recruit people who studied calendars to create more accurate calculation methods, and each added or subtracted them to produce the "Taichu Calendar" of the Han Dynasty.
So Deng Ping, who studied the calendar, Sima Ke from Changle, Hou Yijun and Shi Langzun from Jiuquan, and some people who studied the calendar among the people were selected. There were more than 20 people in total. The alchemist Tang Du and Luo Xiahong from Bajun also participated.
The Tang Dynasty divided the distribution of stars in the sky and calculated the calendar numbers by Luo Xia Hong.
His method is to determine the algebra based on the degree of the law, saying: The capacity of the law is one centimeter, and the product is eighty-one inches, which is exactly the fraction of a day.
Always look the same as the law.
The length of the law is nine inches, and it starts over again at one hundred and seventy-one minutes. After three repetitions, it becomes Jiazi.
The yin and yang numbers in the law are nine and six, which evolved from the Yao Xiang.
Therefore, using Huang Zhong to regulate vitality is called law.
Law, that is, law, there is nothing that does not take law as law.
The research results are exactly the same as Deng Ping's.
So everyone came to observe the new star degree and the movement of the moon, and recalculated, and the results were the same as those of Luo Xia Hong and Deng Hu.
The rule is that there are 43/81 days in January.
If you borrow half a day first, it's called the solar calendar; if you don't borrow it, it's called the lunar calendar.
The so-called solar calendar means that the moon can be seen before the new moon; the so-called lunar calendar means that the moon can be seen after the new moon.
Deng Ping said: Using the solar calendar, the moon can be seen on the first day of the new moon, so that the princes, kings and ministers can meet in court more conveniently.
The emperor then ordered Sima Qian to use the eighty-one-point legal calendar created by Deng Ping, abolish the seventeen ones that were very different, and ordered to continue to check whether there were any inaccuracies in the legal calendar.
The eunuch Chunyu Lingqu re-calculated the Hui, Shuo, Xian and Wang of the "Taichu Calendar", which were all more accurate than other calendars. The sun and the moon were like a jade, and the five stars were connected together like beads.
Chunyu Lingqu reported the situation to the emperor, and the emperor used Dengping's calendar and appointed him as Taishi Cheng.
Twenty-seven years later, in the third year of Yuanfeng, Taishi ordered King Zhang Shou to write to the emperor: The calendar is a major event of heaven and earth, and it is done by heaven.
The Yellow Emperor's "Tiaolu Calendar" was handed down from generation to generation and was used after the establishment of the Han Dynasty.
The current imbalance of yin and yang is caused by the switch to the Taichu Calendar.
The emperor ordered Xian Yuhuan, the envoy in charge of the calendar work, to question him, but King Zhang Shou refused to accept it.
Xian Yuliang asked to watch the twilight, new moon, twilight, twilight, eight and twenty-four solar terms of the sun and moon together with Ma Guang, the great minister and Nong Zhongcheng who studied the calendar, to verify the situation of each calendar.
His request was granted.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
诏与丞相、御史、大将军、右将军史各一人杂候上林清台，课诸历疏密，凡十一家。
以元凤三年十一月朔旦冬至，尽五年十二月，各有第。
寿王课疏远。
案汉元年不用黄帝《调历》，寿王非汉历，朔天道，非所宜言，大不敬。
有诏勿劾。
复候，尽六年。
《太初历》第一。即墨徐万且、长安徐禹治《太初历》亦第一。
寿王及待诏李信治黄帝《调历》，课皆疏阔，又言黄帝至元凤三年六千余岁。
丞相属宝、长安单安国、安陵杯育治《终始》，言黄帝以来三千六百二十九岁，不与寿王合。
寿王又移《帝王录》，舜、禹年岁不合人年。
寿王言化益为天子代禹，骊山女亦为天子，在殷、周间，皆不合经术。
寿王历乃太史官《殷历》也。
寿王猥曰安得五家历，又妄盲《太初历》亏四分日之三，去小余七百五分，以故阴阳不调，谓之乱世。
劾寿王吏八百石，古之大夫，服儒衣，诵不详之辞，作袄言欲乱制度，不道。
奏可。
寿王候课，比三年下，终不服。
再劾死，更赦勿劾，遂不更言，诽谤益甚，竟以下吏。
故历本之验在于天，自汉历初起，尽元凤六年，三十六岁，而是非坚定。
至孝成世，刘向总六历，列是非，作《五纪论》。
向子歆究其微眇，作《三统历》及《谱》以说《春秋》，推法密要，故述焉。
夫历《春秋》者，天时也，列人事而因以天时。
传曰： 民受天地之中以生，所谓命也。
是故有礼谊动作威仪之则以定命也，能者养以之福，不能者败以取祸。
故列十二公二百四十二年之事，以阴阳之中制其礼。
translation: 
The emperor ordered the prime minister, the censor, the general, and the right general Shi to observe the celestial phenomena at Shanglin Qingtai to verify the roughness and precision of various calendars. There were eleven in total.
Starting from the winter solstice on the first day of November in the third year of Yuanfeng and ending in December of the fifth year, the eleven calendars have their own order of density.
Tests have proven that King Zhang Shou's calendar is very different.
In fact, after the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Huangdi's "Tiaotun Calendar" was not used. He criticized the Han Dynasty's calendar and deviated from the law of heaven. This was not what he should have said, and he committed a crime of great disrespect.
The emperor ordered that he not be held accountable.
It took Yuanfeng six full years to observe again.
The result is that the "Taichu Calendar" ranks first. Jimo Xu Wanqi and Chang'an Xu Yu also studied the "Taichu Calendar" and concluded that it is the first.
Huangdi's "Tiaotun Calendar" studied by Zhang Shou Wang and Daishao Li Xin has a large experimental error. It is also said that the three years from Huangdi to Yuanfeng lasted more than 6,000 years.
The prime minister commissioned Shi, Chang'an Shan Anguo, and Anling Wuyu to study "The End" and said that there had been 3,629 years since the Yellow Emperor, and they were at odds with King Zhang Shou.
King Zhang Shou then moved to "Emperor Records", where the ages of Shun and Yu were not consistent with human age.
King Zhang Shou said that Boyi replaced Yu as the emperor, and Lishan Nu was also the emperor during the Yin and Zhou dynasties. These are not consistent with classics.
The calendar of King Zhang Shou is the "Yin Li" written by Tai Shiguan.
King Zhang Shou distortedly claimed where he could get the calendars of the five families, and absurdly said that the "Taichu Calendar" was off by three-quarters of a day, excluding the remaining 705 points. Therefore, the yin and yang were not in harmony, and it was called troubled times.
Someone impeached and demoted King Zhang Shou to eight hundred stones. Ancient officials wore Confucian clothes, said unlucky words, created weird heresies to disrupt the country's system, and committed the crime of treason.
The emperor approved the impeachment.
King Zhang Shou observed the test and found that he was inferior for three consecutive years, but he was still dissatisfied.
He was also impeached for a capital crime and was pardoned. King Zhang Shou stopped talking, but more people said bad things about him, and he was eventually handed over to a judge for trial.
Therefore, the verification of the calendar lies in the sky. From the beginning of the calendar of the Han Dynasty to the sixth year of Yuanfeng, after thirty-six years, right and wrong were determined.
By the time of Emperor Xiaocheng, Liu Xiang compiled six calendars, listed the correct and incorrect ones, and wrote the "Five Chronicles".
Liu Xiang's son Liu Wei explored the subtleties and wrote the "Santong Li" and "Pu" to explain the "Spring and Autumn". The accuracy of the calculations is accurate, so I will talk about it here.
The chronology of the book "Spring and Autumn" is carried out according to the heavenly hours, and personnel and events are arranged according to the heavenly hours.
Legend: People breathe the harmonious air of heaven and earth and have life. Creation is the so-called destiny.
Therefore, the laws of etiquette, righteousness, movement, behavior, and appearance and behavior determine destiny. Those who are able to cultivate them will gain happiness, while those who cannot cultivate them will corrupt them and bring disaster.
Therefore, we listed the twelve public events for two hundred and forty-two years, and used the neutralizing energy of yin and yang to formulate rituals.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
故春为阳中，万物以生；秋为阴中，万物以成。
是以事举其中，礼取其和，历数以闰正天地之中，以作事厚生，皆所以定命也。
《易》金、火相革之卦曰 汤、武革命，顺乎天而应乎人 ，又曰 治历明时 ，所以和人道也。
周道既衰，幽王既丧，天子不能班朔，鲁历不正，以闰余一之岁为蔀首。
故《春秋》刺 十一月乙亥朔，日有食之 。
于是辰在申，而司历以为在建戌，史书建亥。
哀十二年，亦以建申流火之月为建亥，而怪蛰虫之不伏也。
自文公闰月不告朔，至此百有余年，莫能正历数。
故子贡欲去其饩羊，孔子爱其礼，而著其法于《春秋》。《经》曰： 冬十月朔，日有食之。 《传》曰： 不书日，官失之也。
天子有日官，诸侯有日御，日官居卿以底日，礼也。
日御不失日以授百官于朝。 言告朔也。
元典历始曰元。
《传》曰： 元，善之长也。
共养三德为善。
又曰： 元，体之长也。
合三体而为之原，故曰元。
于春三月，每月书王，元之三统也。
三统合于一元，故因元一而九三之以为法，十一三之以为实。
实如法得一。
黄钟初九，律之首，阳之变也。
因而六之，以九为法，得林钟初六，吕之首，阴之变也。
皆参天两地之法也。
上生六而倍之，下生六而损之，皆以九为法。
九六，阴阳、夫妇、子母之道也。
律娶妻而吕生子，天地之情也。
六律六吕，而十二辰立矣。
五声清浊，而十日行矣。《传》曰 天六地五 ，数之常也。
天有六气，降生五味。
translation: 
Therefore, spring is the neutralizing energy of yang energy, so that all things can grow; autumn is the neutralizing energy of yin energy, so that all things can mature.
Therefore, things are listed in the central part, rituals select harmonious parts, calendars use leap months to coordinate the heaven and earth, and are used to guide people's various activities to make life abundant. These are all used to determine destiny.
The hexagrams of the "Book of Changes" in which gold and fire change each other say that Tang and Wu implemented changes to respond to the destiny and conform to the destiny and human affairs. It also said that studying the calendar can clarify the changes in the weather and is used to correspond to human nature.
The royal power of the Zhou Dynasty declined. After the death of King Zhou You, the emperor could not promulgate a calendar. The calendar of the state of Lu was incorrect. It started with one leap in the year.
Therefore, the book "Spring and Autumn" sarcastically states that on the first day of November, the sun will eclipse again.
So the handle of the battle was pointed at Zaishen, but the people in charge of the calendar thought it was Jianxu, and the history books recorded it as Jianhai.
In the twelfth year of Ai Gong, the month when the Jianshen Mars was located in the western sky at dusk was also designated as Jianhai, but it was strange that hibernating animals did not hibernate.
It has been more than a hundred years since Duke Wen did not announce the new moon in the leap month, and the calendar cannot be corrected.
Therefore, Zigong decided not to send the sheep prepared to announce Shuo. Confucius insisted on performing this etiquette and wrote this method in the Spring and Autumn Annals. "Spring and Autumn" says: On the first day of October in winter, there was another solar eclipse. "Zuo Zhuan" said: If there is no diary, the official made a mistake.
The emperor has a sun official, and the princes have a sun emperor. The sun official sits in the position of minister to observe and worship the sun. This is etiquette.
Yue Yu did not lose the record of the date so that he could inform all the officials at the court.
This is what Xuan Shuo said. Conventionally, the beginning of the calendar is called the element.
Legend: Yuan is the best among kind people.
Providing support for the three qualities is called goodness.
He also said: Yuan is the longest among the genres.
The three genres of "Wind", "Ya" and "Song" are collectively called Yuan.
In the three months of spring, each month records the first month of Spring, the second month of Spring, the third month of Spring, etc., which are the three traditions of the Yuan Dynasty.
The three elements are unified into one element, so the element one multiplied by the ninth power of three is used to form the normal number, and the eleventh power of three is used as the real number.
A real number is equal to one.
The ninth day of the lunar month of Huang Zhong is the first of the rules, the change of Yang.
Multiply by six and divide by nine, you get Lin Zhongchu Liu, the first of Lu, the change of Yin.
These are the methods of towering over two places.
If the number is six, it will be doubled, and if it is six, it will be halved. Nine is used as the divisor.
Nine and six are the laws of yin and yang, husband and wife, children and mother.
It is the natural state of heaven and earth for Lu to marry a wife and Lu to have children.
Six laws and six lu, twelve chen are formed.
There are clear and turbid sounds among the five tones, thus forming ten days. "Zuo Zhuan" says that there are six heavens and five earths, which are the constants of numbers.
There are six qi in the sky, and when they descend, they form five flavors.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
夫五六者，天地之中合，而民所受以生也。
故日有六甲，辰有五子，十一而天地之道毕，言终而复始。
太极中央元气，故为黄钟，其实一龠，以其长自乘，故八十一为日法，所以生权衡、度量，礼乐之所繇出也。
《经》元，一以统始，《易》太极之首也。
春秋二以目岁，《易》两仪之中也。
于春每月书王，《易》三极之统也。
于四时虽亡事必书时月，《易》四象之节也。
时月以建分、至、启、闭之分，《易》八卦之位也。
象事成败，《易》吉凶之效也。
朝聘会盟，《易》大业之本也。
故《易》与《春秋》，天人之道也。
《传》曰： 龟，象也。
筮，数也，物生而后有象，象而后有滋，滋而后有数。
是故元始有象一也，春秋二也，三统三也，四时四也，合而为十，成五体。
以五乘十，大衍之数也，而道据其一，其余四十九，所当用也，故蓍以为数。
以象两两之，又以象三三之，又以象四四之，又归奇象闰十九，及所据一加之，因以再扐两之，是为月法之实。如日法得一，则一月之日数也，而三辰之会交矣，是以能生吉凶。
故《易》曰： 天一地二，天三地四，天五地六，天七地八，天九地十。
天数五，地数五，五位相得而各有合。
天数二十有五，地数三十，凡天地之数五十有五，此所以成变化而行鬼神也。
并终数为十九，《易》穷则变，故为闰法。
参天九，两地十，是为会数。
参天数二十五，两地数三十，是为朔、望之会。
以会数乘之，则周天朔旦冬至，是为会月。
九会而复元，黄钟初九之数也。
经于四时，虽亡事必书时月。
translation: 
Five and six are the harmonious numbers of heaven and earth, and people rely on them to survive.
Therefore, it is said that there are six armors in the sun, and five sons in the morning, which add up to eleven. All the laws of heaven and earth are wrapped up here, and they begin again and again.
The central vitality of Tai Chi is therefore a yellow bell. Its volume is one ridge, and its length is used to multiply itself. Therefore, eighty-one is used as the number of the day, thus producing weight, balance, measure, and measure, and ritual and music are also produced from this.
The beginning of unity through the only origin of all things is the first of Tai Chi in the "Book of Changes".
The two seasons of Spring and Autumn represent a year and are the middle of the two seasons in the Book of Changes.
Recording the Spring King's first month and so on every month in spring is the three-pole system of "Book of Changes".
Even if there are no events at the four o'clock, remembering the season and the month are the four qualities of the "Book of Changes".
The months are divided into Dou Jian, and the solar terms are divided into Beginning of Spring, Beginning of Summer, Beginning of Autumn, and Beginning of Winter, which are the eight trigrams in the Book of Changes.
Imitating the success or failure of things is the verification of good and bad fortune in the "Book of Changes".
The princes meeting the emperor and the overlord on a regular basis is the foundation of the great cause of the "Book of Changes".
Therefore, "Book of Changes" and "Spring and Autumn" are the laws of heaven and man.
"Zuo Zhuan" says: Turtle is the image.
Zhen means number. All things have an image after they are born, they multiply after they have an image, and they are numbered after they multiply.
Therefore, there is only one original time number, two for Spring and Autumn, three for Three Systems, and four for Four Seasons. Together they are ten, forming five bodies.
Multiply five by ten to get the number of Dayan. Dao accounts for one of them, leaving forty-nine, which is usable, so he took it as a number.
Take forty nine two, multiply that by three, multiply that by four, add nineteen, and add one. The sum is then multiplied by two to create the real number of the moon method. As the saying goes, one is the number of days in a month. In this way, the trajectories of heaven, earth and human beings will intersect, thus producing good and bad luck.
Therefore, the Book of Changes says: Heaven is one and earth is two, heaven is three and earth is four, heaven is five and earth is six, heaven is seven and earth is eight, heaven is nine and earth is ten.
There are five heaven numbers, five earth numbers, and the sum of the five numbers each has a sum.
The sum of the number of heaven and earth is twenty-five, the sum of the number of earth and sky is thirty, and the sum of the number of sky and earth is fifty-five. They form the basis for the changes of hexagrams and yarns, so that the divination can be as effective as ghosts and gods.
The sum of the final numbers of heaven and earth is nineteen. The rule of "Zhouyi" is that it will change after exhaustion, so it is a leap method.
Three times the number nine in the sky, plus twice the number ten in the earth, is the number.
Three times the sum of the number of the sky, twenty-five, and twice the sum of the number of the earth, thirty, are the numbers of the synodic meeting.
Multiply the synodic intersection number by the synodic number to get the number of synodic months.
The ninth lunar month is the first month again, which is the ninth day of the lunar month.
After the four seasons, even if there are no events, we should record the times and months.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
时所以记启、闭也，月所以纪分、至也。
启、闭者，节也。
分、至者，中也。
节不必在其月，故时中必在正数之月。
故《传》曰： 先王之正时也，履端于始，举正于中，归余于终。
履端于始，序则不愆；举正于中，民则不惑；归余于终，事则不誖。
此圣王之重闰也。
以五位乘会数，而朔旦冬至，是为章月。
四分月法，以其一乘章月，是为中法。
参闰法为周至，以乘月法，以减中法而约之，则七扐之数，为一月之闰法，其余七分。
此中朔相求之术也。
朔不得中，是谓闰月，言阴阳虽交，不得中不生。
故日法乘闰法，是为统岁。
三统，是为元岁。
元岁之闰，阴阳灾，三弦闰法。
《易》九厄曰：初入元，百六，阳九；次三百七十四，阳九；次四百八十，阳九；次七百二十，阴七；次七百二十，阳七；次六百，阴五；次六百，阳五；次四百八十，阴三；次四百八十，阳三。
凡四千六百一十七岁，与一元终。
经岁四千五百六十，灾岁五十七。
是以《春秋》曰： 举正于中。
又曰： 闰月不告朔，非礼也。
闰以正时，时以作事，事以厚生，生民之道于是乎在矣。
不告闰朔，弃时正也，何以为民？
故善僖 五年春王正月辛亥朔，日南至，公既视朔，遂登观台以望，而书，礼也。
凡分、至、启、闭，必书云物，为备故也。
至昭二十年二月己丑，日南至，失闰，至在非其月。
梓慎望氛气而弗正，不履端于始也。
故传不曰冬至，而曰日南至。
极于牵牛之初，日中之时景最长，以此知其南至也。
translation: 
The hour is used to record the solar terms such as the beginning of spring, the beginning of summer, the beginning of autumn, and the beginning of winter. The month is used to record the solar terms such as the spring equinox, the autumnal equinox, the winter solstice, and the summer solstice.
The beginning of spring and the beginning of summer are solar terms.
The spring equinox, autumnal equinox, summer solstice, winter solstice, etc. are the middle qi.
Solar terms do not have to have a fixed correspondence with a certain month, while Zhongqi must have a fixed correspondence with a certain month.
Therefore, "Zuo Zhuan" says: The timing of the former kings started from the beginning, with the middle Qi coming to the first month, leaving the remaining days behind.
If you start from the beginning, there will be no mistakes in the order; if you use the middle energy to come to the first month, the people will not be confused; if you leave the remaining days behind, things will not be confused.
This shows that sage kings attach great importance to leaps.
Multiplying five digits by the number will form the Shuodan winter solstice, which will create the Zhang month.
Divide the moon method into four parts and use one of them to multiply the moon to create the middle method.
Multiply the leap method by three to get Zhou Zhi, multiply the month method by Zhou Zhi, subtract the middle method, and then reduce it by the general method, then it will be an odd zero number of seven, which is the leap method number of a month, and the remainder is seven points.
Creation is the way to seek Zhongshuo.
A month without Zhong Qi is called a leap month, which means that even if Yin and Yang intersect, there will be no growth without Zhong Qi.
Therefore, it is said that the law multiplies the leap law, which is to unify the years.
Multiply the number of years by three to get the number of years in Yuan.
There are floods and droughts in the leap years of the first year, which are fifty-seven times using the three-fold leap method.
"Book of Changes" Jiu E said: From the beginning into the first year, there were nine droughts in one hundred and six years; in another three hundred and seventy-four years, there were nine floods; in another four hundred and eighty years, there were nine droughts; in another seven hundred and twenty years, there were floods Seven times; in another 720 years, there were seven droughts; in another 600 years, there were five floods; in another 600 years, there were five droughts; in another 480 years, there were three floods; in another 480 years, there were three droughts.
There are four thousand six hundred and seventeen years, ending with one dollar.
Four thousand five hundred and sixty years passed, and there were fifty-seven years of disaster.
Therefore, the "Spring and Autumn Annals" says: "Lift the middle energy to come to the first month."
He also said: It is not in line with etiquette not to announce the new day in a leap month.
Leap is used to make the seasons correct, and time is used to produce and work. Only when things are done can all things grow and flourish, so the method of raising people has been developed.
Not promulgating the leap day means abandoning the right time, so how can we govern the people?
Therefore, in the fifth year of the Spring King's first month in the first month of the fifth year, Xinhai was the first day of the new moon. During the winter solstice, Duke Xi went to see the new moon, so he went up to the viewing platform to watch, and then wrote it down. This is a ritual.
At the vernal equinox, autumnal equinox, winter solstice, summer solstice, as well as the beginning of spring, the beginning of summer, the beginning of autumn, and the beginning of winter, you must record the changes in celestial phenomena and clouds for backup purposes.
In February of the 20th year of Duke Zhao, Ji Chou came to the winter solstice. There was one leap month missing, so the winter solstice was in the wrong month.
When Zi Shen saw the clouds, he also discovered that the month was wrong because he did not start from the beginning.
Therefore, "Zuo Zhuan" does not talk about the winter solstice, but talks about the south solstice of the sun.
When the sun is in the first degree of Altair, the sun's shadow is longest at noon. From this, we can know that the sun is solstice in the south.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
斗纲之端连贯营室，织女之纪指牵牛之初，以纪日月，故曰星纪。
五星起其初，日月起其中，凡十二次。
日至其初为节，至其中斗建下为十二辰。
视其建而知其次。
故曰： 制礼上物，不过十二，天之大数也 。
《经》曰 春，王正月 ，《传》曰：周正月 火出，于夏为三月，商为四月，周为五月。
夏数得天 ，得四时之正也。
三代各据一统，明三统常合，而迭为首，登降三统之首，周还五行之道也。
故三五相包而生。
天统之正，始施于子半，日萌色赤。
地统受之于丑初，日肇化而黄，至丑半，日牙化而白。
人统受之于寅初，日孽成而黑，至寅半，日生成而青。
天施复于子，地化自丑毕于辰，人生自寅成于申。
故历数三统，天以甲子，地以甲辰，人以甲申。孟、仲、季迭用事为统首。
三微之统既著，而五行自青始，其序亦如之。
五行与三统相错。
传曰 天有三辰，地有五行 ，然则三统五星可知也。
《易》曰： 参五以变，错综其数。
通其变，遂成天下之文；极其数，遂定天下之象。
太极运三辰五星于上，而元气转三统五行于下。其于人，皇极统三德五事。
故三辰之合于三统也，日合于天统，月合于地统，斗合于人统。
五星之合于五行，水合于辰星，火合于荧惑，金合于太白，木合于岁星，土合于镇星。三辰五星而相经纬也。
天以一生水，地以二生火，天以三生木，地以四生金，天以五生土。
translation: 
The handle of the Big Dipper is connected to the camp, and the sky area of ​​Wunusu points to the first degree of Altair. It is used to record the sun and the moon, so it is called the Star Ji.
The five stars move from the beginning, and the sun and the moon move from the middle, a total of twelve times.
When the sun moves to its beginning, it is the beginning of the solar terms. When it moves to the middle Dou Jian, it is the beginning of the middle period. The following are the twelve celestial periods.
When you see the bucket handle, you can tell how quickly it operates.
Therefore, it is said: According to the etiquette, the number of items offered is no more than twelve, which is the largest number in the week.
"Spring and Autumn" records that it was the first month of King Chun, and "Zuo Zhuan" explained that it was the first month of the Zhou Dynasty. The appearance of the big Mars occurred in March in the Xia Dynasty, April in the Shang Dynasty, and May in the Zhou Dynasty.
The lunar calendar coincides with astronomical phenomena. The arrangement of the seasons is correct.
Each of the three generations occupies one of the three unities of heaven, earth, and man. It is clear that the three unities of heaven, earth, and man often overlap, so they take turns to be the first of the year. The year of ascending and descending the three systems is based on the five elements.
Therefore, the numbers three and five are compatible with each other.
Tiantong begins in Zi, and the sun begins to appear red.
The Earth System occurred at the beginning of Chou, when the sun gave off yellow light, and when it reached Chou, the sun gave off weak light and turned white.
Human reunification occurs at the beginning of Yin, when the sun begins to appear black, and when it reaches Yin, the sun gradually brightens into blue light.
Heaven plays its role in Zi, all things on earth start from Chou and end in Chen, and human merit starts from Yin and becomes Shen.
Therefore, in the three unifications of the calendar, Jiazi is the first day of heaven, Jiachen is the first day of earth, and Jiashen is the first day of human unification. The first, second, and third days take turns to be the first.
The three lines have been formed, so the five elements start from cyan, and the order is the same.
The five elements and the numbers of the three systems are intertwined and corresponding.
"Zuo Zhuan" explains that there are three stars in the sky and five elements in the earth, so we can know the rules of the three unifications and the movement of the five stars.
"Book of Changes" says: The changes in the numbers three and five are intricate and summarize all numbers.
If you know its changing laws, you can become a great theorist in the world. If you fully understand its scope, you will be able to judge the changes in the world.
The Tai Chi in the sky moves through the three chen and the five stars in the sky; the vital energy in the earth moves through the three lines and the five elements are in the earth. As for people, the imperial power governs the three virtues and five things in the world.
Therefore, the three Chens coincide with the Three Tongs, the Heavenly Tong, the Moon with the Earth Tong, and the Fighting with the Human Tong.
The five stars are in conjunction with the five elements, water should be in conjunction with Chen Xing, fire should be in conjunction with Ying Huo, metal should be in conjunction with Tai Bai, wood should be in conjunction with the Year Star, earth should be in conjunction with the Zhen Xing, and the three Chen and five stars will move together vertically and horizontally.
The sky uses one water to generate water, the earth uses two to generate fire, the sky uses three to generate wood, the earth uses four to generate gold, and the sky uses five to generate earth.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
五胜相乘，以生小周，以乘 乾 、 坤 之策，而成大周。
阴阳比类，交错相成，故九六之变登隆于六体。
三微而成著，三著而成象，二象十有八变而成卦，四营而成易，为七十二，参三统两四时相乘之数也。
参之则得 乾 之策，两之则得 坤 之策。
以阳九九之，为六百四十八；以阴六六之，为四百三十二，凡一千八十，阴阳各一卦之微算策也。
八之，为八千六百四十，而八卦小成。
引而信之，又八之，为六万九千一百二十，天地再之，为十三万八千二百四十，然后大成。
五星会终，触类而长之，以乘章岁，为二百六十二万六千五百六十，而与日月会。三会为七百八十七万九千六百八十，而与三统会。
三统二千三百六十三万九千四十，而复于太极上元。
九章岁而六之为法，太极上元为实，实如法得一，阴阴各万一千五百二十，当万物气体之数，天下之能事毕矣。
translation: 
The numbers of the five elements that are mutually incompatible are multiplied together to generate the number of the small week, which is used to multiply the number of Qian and Kun to form the number of the big week.
Yin and yang are arranged correspondingly and interlaced to complement each other, so the transformation of yin and yang hexagrams comes from the six lines.
The number that starts with three is zhu , three is multiplied by zhu to get Xiang , two is multiplied by Xiang to get eighteen variables and becomes Gua , and then multiplied by four is Yi , which is seventy-two, which is the number obtained by multiplying three times three and twice four.
Three times the number of Yi can obtain the number of strategies for the Qian hexagram, and twice the number of Yi can obtain the number of strategies for the Kun hexagram.
Multiplying it by the nine numbers of Yang, we get 648, multiplying it by the six numbers of Yin, we get four hundred and thirty-two, and adding the two together we get the number of one thousand and eighty, which is the starting strategy number for the combination of each hexagram of Yin and Yang.
Multiplied by eight it is eight thousand six hundred and forty, this number is the number of Bagua Xiaocheng.
Based on this calculation, multiplied by eight is sixty-nine thousand one hundred and twenty, and heaven and earth are two. Multiplied again, we get one hundred and thirty-eight thousand two hundred and forty, and then the number of great achievements is achieved.
The number of Dacheng is the number of years in which the movement of the five stars can all finally converge. If we extend it like this and multiply it by the age of the chapter, we get 2,626,560. This is the number of years in which the movement of the five stars, the lunar equinox and the lunar eclipse can all finally converge. The three conjunctions are 7,879,680 years. At this time, the movement of the sun, the moon, the eclipse and the movement of the five stars can all converge. This is the meeting of the three unifications.
The meeting of three times and three unifications lasted for 3,639,040 years, and then returned to the initial point where the moon, the moon, and the five stars began to move.
The number obtained by multiplying the number of nine years by six is ​​divided by the number of years that the moon and the five stars meet and end at one time. The number is divided into two, and the yin and yang are 11,520 each. It should be the number of Qi of all things. If we observe the world based on this, we can calculate the laws of all things.


