Chunk 0: 
original: 
张耳，大梁人也，少时及魏公子毋忌为客。
尝亡命游外黄，外黄富人女甚美，庸奴其夫，亡邸父客。
父客谓曰： 必欲求贤夫，从张耳。
女听，为请决，嫁之。
女家厚奉给耳，耳以故致千里客，宦为外黄令。
陈馀，亦大梁人，好儒术。
游赵苦陉，富人公乘氏以其女妻之。
馀年少，父事耳，相与为刎颈交。
高祖为布衣时，尝从耳游。
秦灭魏，购求耳千金，馀五百金。
两人变名姓，俱之陈，为里监门。
吏尝以过笞馀，馀欲起，耳摄使受笞。
吏去，耳数之曰： 始吾与公言何如？
今见小辱而欲死一吏乎？
馀谢罪。
陈涉起蕲至陈，耳、馀上谒涉。
涉及左右生平数闻耳、馀贤，见，大喜。
陈豪桀说涉曰： 将军被坚执锐，帅士卒以诛暴秦，复立楚社稷，功德宜为王。
陈涉问两人，两人对曰： 将军瞋目张胆，出万死不顾之计，为天下除残。
今始至陈而王之，视天下私。
愿将军毋王，急引兵而西，遣人立六国后，自为树党。
如此，野无交兵，诛暴秦，据咸阳以令诸侯，则帝业成矣。
今独王陈，恐天下解也。
涉不听，遂立为王。
耳、馀复说陈王曰： 大王兴梁、楚，务在入关，未及收河北也。
臣尝游赵，知其豪桀，愿请奇兵略赵地。
translation: 
Zhang Er, a native of Daliang. When he was young, he was a diner of Wei Gongzi Wuji.
Later, he lost his household registration and became anonymous and wandered to the outside world. There was a daughter of a wealthy family in Waihuang who was very beautiful and looked down upon her husband, so she secretly escaped to the home of one of her father's former guests.
Her father's guest said: "You must marry a good husband, so marry Zhang Er."
So, she followed this advice, severed her relationship with her ex-husband, and married Zhang Er.
This woman's family gave Zhang Er a lot of money, which enabled him to make friends with many guests and become the magistrate of Waihuang County.
Chen Yu was from Daliang and loved Confucianism.
He visited Kuxing in Zhao State several times, where the wealthy Gongcheng family married his daughter to him.
Chen Yu was young, so he regarded Zhang Er as his father, and the two formed a life-and-death friendship.
When Emperor Gaozu was still a commoner, he had a relationship with Zhang Er.
After Qin destroyed Wei, it offered a reward of one thousand gold for the capture of Zhang Er and five hundred gold for the capture of Chen Yu.
So the two changed their surnames and came to Chendi together to serve as lowly gatekeepers.
One time, a minor official thought Chen Yu had made a mistake and beat him with a whip. Chen Yu was not convinced and wanted to resist, but Zhang Er secretly stepped on Chen Yu's feet to make him endure the beating.
When the clerk left, Zhang Er scolded Chen Yu and said, "What did I tell you back then?"
Now after receiving a little insult, you want to fight with a petty official?
Chen Yu admitted his mistake.
Chen She revolted in Qixian County and invaded Chen Di. Zhang Er and Chen Yu reported their names and asked to see Chen She.
Chen She and his cronies Hu Su had heard many times that Zhang Er and Chen Yu were capable, and were very happy to see them.
The heroes of Chen County advised Chen She: General, you are wearing strong armor and holding a sharp sword. You led the army to attack the violent Qin Dynasty and rebuilt the country of Chu. Your merits are immeasurable and you should be made the king of Chu.
Chen She asked Zhang and Chen what they thought of this, and they replied: General, you are brave and brave, putting your own life and death aside to eliminate harm for the people of the world.
Now he has just arrived in Chen and proclaimed himself king, revealing his selfishness in front of the world.
I hope that the general will not become the king, and quickly lead the troops to the west, and send people to establish descendants of the six countries and establish party members for himself.
In this way, the violent Qin can be eliminated without fighting, you can occupy Xianyang and issue orders to the princes everywhere, and the great cause of proclaiming emperor can be completed.
If he were to become the king in Chen County now, I am afraid that people in the world would become disloyal.
Chen She refused to listen, so he set up his own business.
Zhang Er and Chen Yu further advised King Chen: Your Majesty launched an uprising from Liang and Chu in order to invade Guanzhong and had no time to capture Hebei.
We have been to the State of Zhao before and are very familiar with the heroes of the State of Zhao. Please let us lead a team to capture the territory of the State of Zhao by surprise.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
于是陈王许之，以所善陈人武臣为将军，耳、馀为左右校尉，与卒三千人，从白马渡河。
至诸县，说其豪桀曰： 秦为乱政虐刑，残灭天下，北为长城之役，南有五领之戍，外内骚动，百姓罢敝，头会箕敛，以供军费，财匮力尽，重以苛法，使天下父子不相聊。
今陈王奋臂赤天下倡始，莫不向应，家自为怒，各报其怨，县杀其令丞，郡杀其守尉。
今以张大楚，王陈，使吴广、周文将卒百万西击秦，于此时而不成封侯之业者，非人豪也。
夫因天下之力而攻无道之君，报父兄之怨而成割地之业，此一时也。
豪桀皆然其言。
乃行收兵，得数万人，号武信君。
下赵十余城，余皆城守莫肯下。
乃引兵东北击范阳。
范阳人蒯通说其令徐公降武信君，又说武信君以侯印封范阳令。
语在《通传》。
赵地闻之，不战下者三十余城。
至邯郸，耳、馀闻周章军入关，至戏却；又闻诸将为陈王徇地，多以谗毁得罪诛。
怨陈王不以为将军而以为校尉，乃说武臣曰： 陈王非必立六国后。
今将军下赵数十城，独介居河北，不王无以填之。
且陈王听谗，还报，恐不得脱于祸。
愿将军毋失时。
武臣乃听，遂立为赵王。
以馀为大将军，耳为丞相。
使人报陈王，陈王大怒，欲尽族武臣等家，而发兵击赵。
相国房君谏曰： 秦未亡，今又诛武臣等家，此生一秦也。
不如因而贺之，使急引兵西击秦。
translation: 
King Chen agreed to their request, and sent the military ministers from Chen whom he admired as generals, with Zhang Er and Chen Yu as captains. He led three thousand soldiers, crossed the Yellow River at Baimajin, and came to the counties in Hebei. He said to the heroes in Naguo: The Qin State imposed tyranny and torture and harmed the people of the world. There were corvees building the Great Wall in the north, and soldiers conquering the Five Ridges in the south. There was turmoil inside and outside, and the people were exhausted.
Excessive levies were collected for military expenses, and the people were depleted of money. Coupled with the harsh criminal laws, fathers and sons in the world could not protect each other.
Now King Chen holds high the banner of righteousness and advocates for the world, and the people all respond. Every family got angry and vented their resentment. The magistrates and county magistrates of each county were killed, and the county guards and county lieutenants were killed in each county.
Now the Chu regime was established, he proclaimed himself king in Chen County, and sent Wu Guang and Zhou Wen to lead a million-strong army to the west to attack Qin. Under such circumstances, those who cannot achieve the feat of becoming a lord are not heroes in the world.
Now is a good opportunity to use the power of the people of the world to attack those unrighteous monarchs, to avenge my father and brother, and to complete the feat of owning land and dominating one country.
The heroes all thought this was correct.
So he expanded his army while marching and added tens of thousands more soldiers. The military minister named himself Lord Wu Xin.
They captured more than a dozen cities in the land, and the rest defended the cities and refused to surrender.
So he led his army to attack Fan Yang in the northeast direction.
Kuai Tong, a native of Fanyang, persuaded the county magistrate Xu Gong to surrender to Lord Wu Xin, and also persuaded Lord Wu Xin to make the magistrate of Fanyang a marquis.
The incident is recorded in "The Biography of Kuai Tong".
When Zhao heard about this, more than thirty cities surrendered without fighting.
When they came to Handan, Zhang Er and Chen Yu heard that Zhou Zhang's army had entered the pass and was defeated when they attacked the theater. They also heard that the generals from all walks of life attacked the city and captured the territory for King Chen, but they were killed because someone else made a speech in front of King Chen.
In addition, Zhang Er and Chen Yu complained that King Chen did not appoint them as generals, but made them captains, so they proposed to the military officials: King Chen may not necessarily appoint the descendants of the Six Kingdoms as kings.
Now that the general has captured dozens of cities across the land and is stationed alone in Hebei, he may not be able to rule unless he becomes king.
Moreover, the King of Chen believed the slander and ordered you to return to Chen. I am afraid you will not be able to escape disaster.
I hope the general will not miss this opportunity.
Wu Chen accepted this suggestion and declared himself King of Zhao.
Chen Yu was appointed as the general and Zhang Er as the prime minister.
Wu Chen sent someone to report to King Chen. King Chen was furious and wanted to kill Wu Chen and his family, and then send troops to attack.
King Chen's prime minister, Lord Fang, remonstrated and said: "Qin has not yet been eliminated, and now we are killing the families of military officials and others. This is tantamount to establishing another enemy like Qin."
It is better to take advantage of the situation and send people to congratulate them, so that the military officials can immediately lead the army to the west to attack Qin.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
陈王从其计，徙系武臣等家宫中，封耳子敖为成都君。使使者贺赵，趣兵西入关。
耳馀说武臣曰： 王王赵，非楚意，特以计贺王。
楚已灭秦，必加兵于赵。
愿王毋西兵，北徇燕、代，南收河内以自广。
赵南据大河，北有燕、代，楚虽胜秦，必不敢制赵。
赵王以为然，因不西兵，而使韩广略燕，李良略常山，张黡略上党。
韩广至燕，燕人因立广为燕王。
赵王乃与耳、馀北略地燕界。
赵王间出，为燕军所得。
燕囚之，欲与分地。
使者往，燕辄杀之，以固求地。
耳、馀患之。
有厮养卒谢其舍曰： 吾为二公说燕，与赵王载归。
舍中人皆笑曰： 使者往十辈皆死，若何以能得王？
乃走燕壁。燕将见之，问曰： 知臣何欲？
燕将曰： 若欲得王耳。
曰： 君知张耳、除馀何如人也？
燕将曰： 贤人也。
曰： 其志何欲？
燕将曰： 欲得其王耳。
赵卒笑曰： 君未知两人所欲也。
夫武臣、张耳、陈馀，杖马箠下赵数十城，亦各欲南面而王。
夫臣之与主，岂可同日道哉！
顾其势初定，且以长少先立武臣，以持赵心。
今赵地已服，两人亦欲分赵而王，时未可耳。
今君囚赵王，念此两人名为求王，实欲燕杀之，此两人分赵而王。
夫以一赵尚易燕，况以两贤王左提右挈，而责杀王，灭燕易矣。
燕以为然，乃归赵王。
养卒为御而归。
李良已定常山，还报赵王，赵王复使良略太原。
至石邑，秦兵塞井陉，未能前。
translation: 
King Chen followed his strategy and placed only the military officials and other family members under house arrest in the palace. He named Zhang Er's son Zhang Ao the king of Chengdu, sent envoys to congratulate Zhao, and urged the Zhao army to march westward and enter the pass.
Zhang Er and Chen Yu advised the military officials: Your Majesty, you are proclaimed king of Zhao State not because of Chu's wish, but because of expediency, you came to congratulate the king.
As long as Chu State destroys Qin, it will definitely send troops to attack.
I hope that King Tang will not send troops to the west, but will capture Yan and Dai in the north, and Hanoi in the south to expand his country's territory.
If Zhao was guarded by the Yellow River in the south and Yan and Dai were in the north, even if Chu defeated Qin, he would not dare to send troops to capture it.
King Zhao thought this was correct. Instead of sending troops westward, he sent Han Guang to attack Yan, Li Liang to attack Changshan, and Zhang Wei to attack Shangdang.
Han Guang entered Yan, and the people of Yan supported him as king of Yan.
King Zhao, Zhang Er, and Chen Yu led their troops to station at the border of Yan, preparing to attack Yan.
King Tang went out once and was captured by the Yan army.
The generals of the State of Yan imprisoned King Zhao as a hostage and demanded that the State of Zhao cede the land to Yan before returning it to King Zhao.
The envoys sent by Zhao were all killed by Yan, who insisted on letting Zhao cede territory.
Zhang Er and Chen Yu were worried about this.
A servant in the army said to his roommate: I am going on a mission for the second Duke to convince Yan that he can come back with King Zhao.
His roommates all laughed at him and said, "The envoys you sent were killed every time. How could you save King Tong?"
He came to the camp of the Yan army and was received by the general of the Yan army. The servant asked the Yan general: "Do you know what I want to do?"
Yan Jiang replied: I want to get your King Zhao back.
Question: Do you know what kind of people Zhang Er and Chen Yu are?
General Yan said: A worthy person.
Asked again: Do you know what their purpose is?
Yan Jiang replied: I want to save their king Tang.
Zhao's servant smiled and said, "You don't know what they really think."
At that time, Wu Chen, Zhang Er, and Chen Yu captured dozens of cities in the country without using any troops. All three of them wanted to ascend the throne of the king.
How can the status of a monarch and a minister be compared?
Considering that the general situation had just stabilized, he first established the military minister as king based on his age to stabilize the people of Zhao.
Now that the country is stable, the two of them also want to divide the country and become kings on their own, but the opportunity is not yet ripe.
Now you imprison King Tread. On the surface, the two of them want to save King Tread, but in fact they hope that Yan will kill King Zhao so that they can divide the land of Zhao and become king.
With the strength of Zhao State, it can easily defeat Yan State, let alone two wise kings united. If you attack the State of Yan on the charge of killing King Tiao, the State of Yan will soon be destroyed.
General Yan thought his words were reasonable, so he returned King Zhao.
The servant himself drove back with King Zhao.
After Li Liang captured Changshan, he came back and reported to King T'ao, who ordered Li Liang to capture Taiyuan.
Li Liang led his troops to Shiyi, but it was difficult to advance because Qin was heavily guarded at Jingxing.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
秦将诈称二世使使遗良书，不封，曰： 良尝事我，得显幸，诚能反赵为秦，赦良罪，贵良。
良得书，疑不信。
之邯郸益请兵。
未至，道逢赵王姊，从百余骑。
良望见，以为王，伏谒道旁。
王姊醉，不知其将，使骑谢良。
良素贵，起，惭其从官。
从官有一人曰： 天下叛秦，能者先立。
且赵王素出将军下，今女儿乃不为将军下车，请追杀之。
良以得秦书，欲反赵，未决，因此怒，遣人追杀王姊，遂袭邯郸。
邯郸不知，意杀武臣。
赵人多为耳、馀耳目者，故得脱出，收兵得数万人。
客有说耳、馀曰： 两君羁旅，而欲附赵，难可独立；立赵后，辅以谊，可就功。
乃求得赵歇，立为赵王，居信都。
李良进兵击馀，馀败良。
良走归章邯。
章邯引兵至邯郸，皆徙其民河内，夷其城郭。
耳与赵王歇走入臣鹿城，王离围之。
馀北收常山兵，得数万人，军巨鹿北。
章邯军巨鹿南棘原，筑甬道属河，饷王离。
王离兵食多，急攻巨鹿。巨鹿城中食尽，耳数使人召馀，馀自度兵少，不能敌秦，不敢前。
数月，耳大怒，怨馀，使张黡、陈释往让馀曰： 始吾与公为刎颈交，今王与耳旦暮死，而公拥兵数万，不肯相救，胡不赴秦俱死？
且什有一二相全。
馀曰： 所以不俱死，欲为赵王、张君报秦。
今俱死，如以肉喂虎，何益？
translation: 
The leader of the Qin army lied that Qin II sent an envoy to Li Liang to send an unsealed letter. The letter said: Li Liang once followed me, and I use him very much. If Li Liang can rebel against Zhao and submit to Qin, he will be forgiven of Li Liang's sins and given a high official and generous salary.
Li Liang was also very suspicious when he saw the letter. Don't believe it.
So he returned to Handan, preparing to ask for military support.
On the way, I met Wang Tong's sister, followed by more than a hundred people.
Li Liang saw it from a distance and thought it was King Zhao, so he knelt down by the road.
King Zhao's sister was drunk and did not know that he was a general, so she sent a knight to thank Li Liang.
Li Liang has always had a high status. After he got up, he felt that he had lost face in front of his subordinates.
One of the followers said: "Everyone in the world is against Qin. Whoever has the ability will be the first to become king."
Besides, the status of King Tang has always been lower than that of the general. Now that their girl dares not to get out of the car and salute the general when she sees him, please let us chase her and kill her!
Because Li Liang received Qin's letter, he had the idea of ​​​​anti-Zhao but was hesitant. After hearing this, he was furious and immediately sent people to hunt down King Zhao's sister, and led the army to attack Handan.
Handan was completely unprepared, and Li Liangjing killed the military minister.
Many people in Tongguo informed Zhang Er and Chen Yu, so they were able to escape. They packed up the remaining Tong army and gathered tens of thousands of troops.
A guest advised Zhang Er and Chen Yu: "You two are from a foreign land. It is difficult to get the people of Zhao to join you." It would be better to establish the descendants of King Zhao of the Six Kingdoms as kings and complete the great cause of restoration in the name of assisting him.
So he found Zhao's descendant Dan Xie, made him the king of Dan, and lived in Xindu.
Li Liang raised his troops to attack Chen Yu, but was defeated by Chen Yu.
Li Liang fled to Qin general Zhang Han.
Zhang Han led his army to Handan, moved the people in Nabu to Hanoi, and razed the city of Handan to the ground.
Zhang Er and Wang Danxie fled to Julu City together and were surrounded by Wang Li.
Chen Yu gathered Changshan's army in the north, added tens of thousands of people, and stationed himself north of Julu.
Zhang Han was stationed at Jiyuan, south of Julu, and built a channel on the river to transport military supplies for Wang Li.
Wang Li's army had sufficient food and immediately attacked Julu. However, Julu City ran out of food. Zhang Er repeatedly sent people to ask Chen Yu to send troops to relieve the siege. Chen Yu believed that his troops were too small to compete with the Qin soldiers and did not dare to send troops.
After being besieged for several months, Zhang Er was furious and resentful of Chen Yu. He sent Zhang Dao and Chen Shi to rebuke Chen Yu and said: "You and I were life-and-death friends at first, but now the lives of King Zhao and I are at stake. You have tens of thousands of troops, but you refuse to save us. Why don't you rush to the Qin army and die with us?"
Maybe there is still a glimmer of hope for survival.
Chen Yu said: I don’t want to die together, but I want to avenge King Zhao and Jun Zhang.
If everyone goes to die now, it is equivalent to sending meat into the tiger's mouth. What good will it do?


Chunk 4: 
original: 
张黡、陈释曰： 事已急，要以俱死立信，安知后虑！
馀曰： 吾顾以无益。
乃使五千人令张黡、陈释先尝秦军，至皆没。
当是时，燕、齐、楚闻赵急，皆来救。
张敖亦北收代，得万余人来，皆壁馀旁。
项羽兵数绝章邯甬道，王离军乏食。
项羽悉引兵渡河，破章邯军。
诸侯军乃敢击秦军，遂虏王离。
于是赵王歇、张耳得出巨鹿，与馀相见，责让馀，问： 张黡、陈释所在？
馀曰： 黡、释以必死责臣，臣使将五千人先尝秦军，皆没。
耳不信，以为杀之，数问馀。
馀怒曰： 不意君之望臣深也！
岂以臣重去将哉？
乃脱解印绶与耳，耳不敢受。
馀起如厕，客有说耳曰： 天予不取，反受其咎。
今陈将军与君印绶，不受，反天不祥。
急取之！
耳乃佩其印，收其麾下。
馀还，亦望耳不让，趋出。
耳遂收其兵。
馀独与麾下数百人之河上泽中渔猎。
由此有隙。
赵王歇复居信都。
耳从项羽入关。
项羽立诸侯，耳雅游，多为人所称。
项羽素亦闻耳贤，乃分赵立耳为常山王，治信都。信都更名襄国。
馀客多说项羽： 陈馀、张耳一体有功于赵。
羽以馀不从入关，闻其在南皮，即以南皮旁三县封之。而徙赵王歇王代。
耳之国，馀愈怒曰： 耳与馀功等也，今耳王，馀独侯！
及齐王田荣叛楚，馀乃使夏说说田荣曰： 项羽为天下宰不平，尽王诸将善地，徙故王王恶地，今赵王乃居代！
愿王假臣兵，请以南皮为扞蔽。
田荣欲树党，乃遣兵从馀。
馀悉三县兵，袭常山王耳。
耳败走，曰： 汉王与我有故，而项王强，立我，我欲之楚。
translation: 
Zhang Yan and Chen Shi said: The situation is urgent now. We can only keep our word through life and death. How can we care about what will happen in the future?
Chen Yu said: It doesn't matter if I die, but what's the benefit?
So they sent 5,000 men, led by Zhang Dao and Chen Shi, to attack the Qin army, but the entire army was destroyed.
During the rest of the time, Yan, Qi, and Chu heard that King Zhao was in danger and all came to help him.
Zhang Ao also regained the land of Dai in the north, recruited more than 10,000 people, and set up camp near Chen Yu's army.
Xiang Yu's army blocked Zhang Han's passage many times, causing Wang Li's army to lack food and grass.
Xiang Yu's entire army crossed the river and defeated Zhang Han's army.
Only then did the armies of various princes dare to attack the Qin army and captured Wang Li.
Zhang Er and Tan Xie were rescued from Julu. As soon as Zhang Er met Chen Yu, he blamed Chen Yu and asked where Zhang Yan and Chen Shi were.
Chen Yu said: Zhang Yan and Chen Shi asked me to fight to the death with the Qin army. I asked them to lead five thousand people to attack the Qin army to try, but the entire army was destroyed.
Zhang Er didn't believe it, thinking that Chen Yu had killed the two men, and questioned Chen Yu many times.
Chen Yu said angrily: I didn't expect your resentment towards me to be so deep!
Do you think I can't bear to part with this title of general?
So he took off the seal and asked to return it to Zhang Er, but Zhang Er refused to accept it.
When Chen Yu went to the toilet, a guest advised Zhang Er: "If you hear God's gift but refuse to accept it, there will be no good consequences."
Now Chen Yu is giving you the seal and ribbon. If you don't accept it, it will be unlucky to go against God's will.
Hurry up and accept it!
Zhang Er then wore Chen Yu's seal and ribbon and recruited Chen Yu's subordinates.
When Chen Yu came back and saw this situation, he complained that Zhang Er refused to give in, and left angrily.
Zhang Er then took over Chen Yu's army.
Chen Yu and hundreds of his followers went to the lakes and swamps along the Yellow River to engage in hunting and fishing.
From then on, there was resentment between Zhang Er and Chen Yu.
Zhao Xie, the king of Zhao, returned to Xindu.
Zhang Er followed Xiang Yu into the pass.
When Xiang Yu divided the princes, Zhang Er made many friends and many people praised him.
Xiang Yu often heard that Zhang Er was a virtuous person, so he separated a land from the Zhao Kingdom, made Zhang Er the King of Changshan, and established the capital of Xindu, which was renamed Xiangguo.
Chen Yu's old guests all told Xiang Yu: "Chen Yu and Zhang Er have also made great contributions to the state of Zhao."
Xiang Yu thought that Chen Yu did not follow him into the Pass, and when he heard that he was now in Nanpi, he conferred three counties near Nanpi on Chen Yu, and changed the title of Tang Wang Tang Xie to Dai Wang, and moved the capital to Dai County.
When Zhang Er returned to his kingdom, Chen Yu became even more angry and said: "Zhang Er and I have equal merits. Now he has been made a king, and I have been made a marquis."
When Tian Rong of the Qi State betrayed the Chu State, Chen Yu sent an envoy Xia Shuo to persuade Tian Rong: Xiang Yu is the ruler of the world, but it is unfair. He gave good lands to other kings and generals, but moved King Tread to a bad place. King Tread still lives in Dai County!
I hope you can lend me some troops and would like to use Nanpi as a vassal screen.
Tian Rongzheng wanted to establish party members, so he sent troops to Chen Yu.
Chen Yu recruited soldiers from three counties to attack Zhang Er, the king of Changshan.
Zhang Er was defeated and fled, saying: The King of Han and I have friendship, but Xiang Yu's power is strong, and I am entrusted by King Xiang, so I plan to go to Chu.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
甘公曰： 汉王之入关，五星聚东井。
东井者，秦分地。先至必王。
楚虽强，后必属汉。
耳走汉。
汉亦还定三秦，方围章邯废丘。
耳谒汉王，汉王厚遇之。
馀已败耳，皆收赵地，迎赵王于代，复为赵王，赵王德馀，立以为代王。
馀为赵王弱，国初定，留傅赵王，而使夏说以相国守代。
汉二年，东击楚，使告赵，欲与俱。
馀曰： 汉杀张耳乃从。
于是汉求人类耳者，斩其头遗馀，馀乃遣兵助汉。
汉败于彭城西，馀亦闻耳诈死，即背汉。
汉遣耳与韩信击破赵井陉，斩馀泜水上，追杀赵王歇襄国。
四年夏，立耳为赵王。
五年秋，耳薨，谥曰景王。
子敖嗣立为王，尚高祖长女鲁元公主，为王后。
七年，高祖从平城过赵，赵王旦暮自上食，体甚卑，有子婿礼。
高祖箕踞骂詈，甚慢之。
赵相贯高、赵午年六十余，故耳客也，怒曰： 吾王孱王也！
说敖曰： 天下豪桀并起，能者先立，今王事皇帝甚恭，皇帝遇王无礼，请为王杀之。
敖啮其指出血，曰： 君何言之误！
且先王亡国，赖皇帝得复国，德流子孙，秋毫皆帝力也。
愿君无复出口。
贯高等十余人相谓曰： 吾等非也。
吾王长者，不背德。
且吾等义不辱，今帝辱我王，故欲杀之，何乃污王为？
事成归王，事败独身坐耳。
八年，上从东垣过。
贯高等乃壁人柏人，要之置厕。
translation: 
Duke Gan said: When the king of Han entered the pass, the five stars in the sky gathered in the east well.
Shujing is a divided territory of Qin, and whoever arrives first will become hegemonic.
Although Chu is now powerful, the world still belongs to Han in the end.
So Zhang Er fled to Han Dynasty.
The king of Han led his troops to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties and surrounded Zhang Han in Feiqiu.
Zhang Er paid homage to the King of Han, who treated him very favorably.
Chen Yu defeated Zhang Er, regained all the land, and brought the king back from Dai County, where he was still the king. King Zhao was grateful to Chen Yu and named him acting king.
Chen Yu thought that the King of Zhao was weak and the country was in the early stages of peace, so he stayed to assist the King of Zhao, and sent the Prime Minister Guo Xia to garrison Dai.
In the second year of the Han Dynasty, King Shujin of Han attacked the state of Chu. He sent someone to inform Zhao, asking him to send troops to attack Chu together.
Chen Yu said: I will send troops only if the Han kills Zhang Er.
So the king of Han found a man who looked like Zhang Er, killed him, and gave his head to Chen Yu, who then sent troops to aid Mo.
As a result, the Han army was defeated by the Chu army west of Pengcheng. Chen Yu heard about Zhang Er's fake death and betrayed Mo.
Han sent Zhang Er and Han Xin to capture Zhao's Jingxing, killed Chen Yu at the bank of the Sang River, and pursued him to Xiangguo and killed the king of Zhao, Dan Xie.
In the summer of the fourth year, Mo made Zhang Er the king of Tong.
In the autumn of the fifth year, Zhang Er died, and the Han Dynasty named him Mi King Jing.
His son Zhang Ao inherited the throne and married Princess Lu Yuan, the eldest daughter of Emperor Gaozu, as his queen.
In the seventh year of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Gaozu came to Zhao from Pingcheng. King Tong personally served him with food and drinks in the morning and evening, with a very humble attitude and the courtesy of a son-in-law.
But Gaozu sat there and shouted and scolded him loudly, looking down on him very much.
The prime minister, Guan Gao and Zhao Wu, was over sixty years old. He was a former disciple of Zhang Er. He said angrily: Our king is really a cowardly king!
He advised Zhang Ao: "There are many heroes in the world, and the talented ones should be the first to be kings." Now you are very respectful to Gaozu, but Gaozu is rude to you. Please let us kill him for you.
After hearing this, King Zhao bit his finger and it bled, and said, "How could you say such a thing!"
My father lost his country, but it was Gaozu who helped him to restore his country, and De Ze was passed down to future generations. All this is the power of the emperor.
I hope you won't say such things again.
Guan Gao and more than a dozen people discussed among themselves and said: We were wrong.
Our king is a loyal elder who refuses to betray his obligations.
But we can't stand insults. Now Gaozu insults our King Zhao, so he wants to kill him. What does this have to do with our king?
If things succeed, let's vent our anger for the king; if things fail, then we should bear the blame ourselves.
In the eighth year of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Gaozu passed through Shuyuan and visited the country.
Guan Gao sent people to hide in the wall of Bairen County Hall, preparing to wait for an opportunity to kill Hu Zu.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
上过欲宿，心动，问曰： 县名为何？ 曰： 柏人。
柏人者，迫于人！
不宿，去。
九年，贯高怨家知其谋，告之。
于是上逮捕赵王诸反者。
赵午等十余人皆争自刭，贯高独怒骂曰： 谁令公等为之！
今王实无谋，而并捕王；公等死，谁当白王不反者？
乃槛车与王诣长安。
高对狱曰： 独吾属为之，王不知也。
吏榜笞数千，刺，身无完者，终不复言。
吕后数言张王以鲁元故，不宜有此。
上怒曰： 使张敖据天下，岂少乃女乎！
廷尉以贯高辞闻，上曰： 壮士！
谁知者，以私问之。
中大夫泄公曰： 臣素知之，此固赵国立名义不侵为然诺者也。
上使泄公持节问之箯舆前。
卬视泄公，劳苦如平生欢。
与语，问： 张王果有谋不？
高曰： 人情岂不各爱其父母妻子哉？
今吾三族皆以论死，岂以王易吾亲哉！
顾为王实不反，独吾等为之。
具道本根所以、王不知状。
于是泄公具以报上，上乃赦赵王。
上贤高能自立然诺，使泄公赦之，告曰： 张王已出，上多足下，故赦足下。
高曰： 所以不死，白张王不反耳。
今王已出，吾责塞矣。
且人臣有篡弑之名，岂有面目复事上哉！
乃仰绝亢而死。
敖已出，尚鲁元公主如故，封为宣平侯。
于是上贤张王诸客，皆以为诸侯相、郡守。
语在《田叔传》。
及孝惠、高后、文、景时，张王客子孙皆为二千石。
初，孝惠时，齐悼惠王献城阳郡，尊鲁元公主为太后。
高后元年，鲁元太后薨。
后六年，宣平侯敖薨。
translation: 
When Emperor Gaozu arrived in Bairen and wanted to stay overnight, he suddenly felt something moved and asked: "What county is this?" Answer: Bairen County.
Zhitan said: The Bai people are forced by others.
So he left without staying overnight.
In the ninth year of Han Dynasty, Guan Gao's enemies learned of their plan and reported him.
So Gaozu arrested King Zhao and other people who were trying to rebel.
A dozen people including Chang Wu rushed to commit suicide by cutting their necks. Only Zhishang cursed angrily: Who told you to do this?
Now Yusi has not rebelled, but he has been arrested together. If you are dead, who will prove that King Zhao did not rebel?
Together with King Zhao, they were taken to Ken'an in a sealed prison car.
Guan Gao said to the jailer: "This is what we people did. King Zhao doesn't know."
The jailer beat him thousands of times with whips and stung him with red-hot iron. Guan Gao was covered with wounds, but he didn't say a word.
Empress Lu said several times that King Zhao was the husband of Princess Lu Yuan and would not rebel.
Emperor Gaozu said angrily: If Zhang Ao ruled the world, would he care about your daughter?
Tingwei reported Guan Gao's confession to Emperor Gaozu, and Emperor Gaozu said: "What a strong man!"
Anyone who is familiar with him can ask him privately.
Zhongdafu Xiegong said: I know him well. He is a person in Zhao who pays attention to honor and integrity and never breaks his promise.
Emperor Gaozu asked Xie Gongzhijie to ask in front of his chair.
Guangao raised his head and looked at Xie Gong, chatting happily as usual.
During the conversation, Duke Xie asked King Zhao if it was true that he had not rebelled.
Guan Gao said: How can a human being not love his parents, wife and children?
Now that all three members of my family are going to be executed for this, will I use my relatives to protect King Tang?
It is indeed because King Tang did not rebel, it was just what we did.
He told the whole story in detail and the situation that King Tong didn't know about at all.
So Duke Xie told Gaozu what Guan Gao said, and Gaozu pardoned King Zhao.
Emperor Gaozu appreciated Guangao's ability and courage to act and keep his word, so he asked Duke Xie to tell Guangao: "Zhang Ao has been released. The emperor appreciates you very much, so he pardons you."
Guan Gao said: The reason why I will not die is to prove that King Tang did not rebel.
Now that King Tong has been released, my responsibility has been fulfilled.
But as a minister with a reputation for usurpation, how could he still have the dignity to serve the emperor?
So he cut his neck and committed suicide.
After Zhang Fang was released from prison, he still respected Princess Lu Yuan as before, and was named Marquis of Xuanping by Emperor Gaozu.
At that time, Emperor Gaozu appreciated the guests of the king very much. They were either appointed as prime ministers of the princes or as county guards.
It is recorded in "The Biography of Uncle Tian".
By the time of Xiaohui, Gaohou, Emperor Wen, and Emperor Jing, the descendants of King Zhao's guests had become officials worth two thousand shi.
At the beginning, during the reign of Emperor Xiaohui, King Hui of Qi dedicated Chengyang County to Princess Lu Yuan and honored her as the Queen Mother.
In the first year of the reign of Emperor Gao, Empress Dowager Lu Yuan passed away.
Six years later, Zhang Ao, the Marquis of Xuanping, also passed away.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
吕太后立敖子偃为鲁王，以母为太后故也。
又怜其年少孤弱，乃封敖前妇子二人；寿为乐昌侯，侈为信都侯。
高后崩，大臣诛诸吕，废鲁王及二侯。
孝文即位，复封故鲁王偃为南宫侯。
薨，子生嗣。
武帝时，生有罪免，国除。
元光中，复封偃孙广国为睢陵侯。
薨，子昌嗣。
太初中，昌坐不敬免，国除。
孝平元始二年，继绝世，封敖玄孙庆忌为宣平侯，食千户。
赞曰：张耳、陈馀，世所称贤，其宾客厮役皆天下俊桀，所居国无不取卿相者。
然耳、馀始居约时，相然信死，岂顾问哉！
及据国争权，卒相灭亡，何乡者慕用之诚，后相背之盭也！
势利之交，古人羞之，盖谓是矣。
translation: 
Empress Dowager Lu appointed Zhang Ao's son Zhang Yan as King of Lu because his mother was the Queen Mother of Qi.
Empress Lu sympathized with Zhang Yan's young age and frailty, so she granted Zhang Ao's two sons from his first marriage the title of Marquis of Lechang and Zhang Chi as Marquis of Xindu.
After Empress Gao died, the ministers killed many of Empress Lu's people. The king of Lu and the second prince were deposed.
After Emperor Xiaowen ascended the throne, he granted the title of Marquis of Nangong to the original Lu King Zhang Yan.
After Zhang Yan's death, his son Zhang Sheng succeeded to the throne.
By the time of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Zhang Sheng was removed from his title for being convicted, and the feudal state was abolished.
During the Yuanguang period, Zhang Guangguo, Zhang Yan's grandson, was granted the title of Marquis of Suiling.
After his death, his son Zhang Chang succeeded to the throne.
During the Taichu period, Zhang Chang was dismissed from his title for committing the crime of disrespect, and his feudal state was abolished.
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty of Xiaoping, in order to promote prosperity, Zhang Qingji, the great-great-grandson of Zhang Ao, was granted the title of Marquis of Xuanping, with thousands of households in the city.
Praising said: Zhang Er and Chen Yu are recognized as sages by the world. Their guests and servants are all heroes in the world. No matter which country they are in, they all have the status of minister.
But Zhang Er and Chen Yu trusted each other when they were poor and humble at first, and they were close friends of life and death. Is there anything to doubt?
When they had high positions and competed for power, they finally killed each other. Why were they so admiring and trusting in the past, but now they betray each other?
The ancients were ashamed of being a snobbish friend. This is probably what they are talking about.


