Chunk 0: 
original: 
六年春正月丙辰，改舂陵乡为章陵县。世世复徭役，比丰、沛，无有所豫。
辛酉，诏曰： 往岁水、旱、蝗虫为灾，谷价腾跃，人用困乏。
朕惟百姓无以自赡，恻然愍之。
其命郡国有谷者，给禀高年、鳏、寡、孤、独及笃癃、无家属贫不能自存者，如《律》。
二千石勉加循抚，无令失职。
扬武将军马成等拔舒，获李宪。
二月，大司马吴汉拔朐，获董宪、庞萌，山东悉平。诸将还京师，置酒赏赐。
三月，公孙述遣将任满寇南郡。
夏四月丙子，幸长安，始谒高庙，遂有事十一陵。
遣虎牙大将军盖延等七将军从陇道伐公孙述。
五月己未，至自长安。
隗嚣反，盖延等因与嚣战于陇阺，诸将败绩。
辛丑，诏曰： 惟天水、陇西、安定、北地吏人为隗嚣所诖误者，又三辅遭难赤眉，有犯法不道者，自殊死以下，皆赦除之。
六月辛卯，诏曰： 夫张官置吏，所以为人也。今百姓遭难，户口耗少，而县官吏职所置尚繁，其令司隶、州牧各实所部，省减吏员。
县国不足置长吏可并合者，上大司徒、大司空二府。 于是条奏并省四百余县，吏职减损，十置其一。
代郡太守刘兴击卢芳将贾览于高柳，战殁。
初，乐浪人王调据郡不服。
秋，遣乐浪太守王遵击之，郡吏杀调降。
遣前将军李通率二将军，与公孙述将战于西城，破之。
夏，蝗。
秋九月庚子，赦乐浪谋反大逆殊死已下。
丙寅晦，日有食之。
冬十月丁丑，诏曰： 吾德薄不明，寇贼为害，强弱相陵，元元失所。
translation: 
On the 16th day of the first lunar month in the sixth year of spring, Chongling Township was renamed Zhangling County, and the corvee was exempted from generation to generation. According to the old practices in Fengyi and Pei County, the hometown of Emperor Gaozu, the people of Zhangling County no longer worried about the possibility of corvée in the future.
On the 21st, an edict was issued saying: Floods, droughts, and locust plagues in previous years caused grain prices to skyrocket and the people suffered.
I feel very sad when I see the people unable to feed themselves.
The counties and states that still have food reserves are ordered to provide relief to the elderly, widowers, widows, orphans, the old and childless, those who are seriously ill and needy, as well as those who are homeless and unable to support themselves. Everything must comply with the provisions of the Han Code.
The county governor should work hard to appease the people and not neglect his duties.
General Yangwu Ma Cheng and others captured Shu County and captured Li Xian.
In February, Grand Sima Wu Han captured Qu County, captured Dong Xian and Pang Meng, and pacified everything east of the Taihang Mountains. The generals returned to the capital, where they were given banquets and rewards.
In March, Gongsun Shu sent general Ren Man to invade Nanjun.
On the eighth day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Emperor Guangwu arrived in Chang'an and began to pay homage to the Gaomiao Temple and worship the Eleven Tombs.
He sent General Huya General Gai Yan and other seven generals from Longdao to attack Gongsun Shu.
On May 21, Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang from Chang'an.
Kuai Xiao rebelled, and Gai Yan fought with Kuai Xiao in Longnandi, and Gai Yan and others were severely defeated.
Xin Chou, Emperor Guangwu issued an edict: Officials in Tianshui, Longxi, Anding, and Beidi who were implicated in Kaixiao's deception, as well as those who violated the law and did not follow the right path when the third assistant was in trouble with Chimei, will be exempted from punishment if they are sentenced to less than beheading.
On June 24, the edict stated: The state sets up officials, large and small, solely for the sake of the people. Now that the people are suffering and the household registration has been reduced, the state still has many officials. It orders the lieutenant and the governors of each state to verify the ministries under their jurisdiction and reduce the number of officials.
Those counties that are not enough for unit chiefs and can be merged will be reported to the two offices of Da Situ and Da Sikong. So Captain Si Su and the Mu Shou of each state petitioned to merge and reduce the number of more than 400 counties and cut officials, leaving only one-tenth of the previous number.
In June, Liu Xing, the prefect of Daijun, attacked Lu Fang's general Jia Lan in Gaoliu, and Liu Xing died in the battle.
In the past, Wang Tiao, a Lelang man, occupied the county and refused to accept it.
In the autumn of this year, Wang Zun, the prefect of Lelang, was sent to attack. The county officials killed Wang Tiao and surrendered.
He sent former general Li Tong and two generals to fight with general Gongsun Shu in Xicheng and defeated him.
Summer, locust plague.
On the fourth day of the ninth lunar month in autumn, those who commit crimes against Lelang will be exempted from punishment unless they are guilty of treason.
On the 30th, dusk, solar eclipse.
On the 11th day of the tenth month in winter, the edict said: I have weak virtues and lack of wisdom. Bandits have harmed me, raped and bullied the weak, and the common people have been displaced.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
《诗》云： 日月告凶，不用其行。
永念厥咎，内疚于心。
其敕公卿举贤良、方正各一人；百僚并上封事，无有隐讳；有司修职，务遵法度。
十一月丁卯，诏王莽时吏人没人为奴婢不应旧法者，皆免为庶人。
十二月壬辰，大司空宋弘免。
癸巳，诏曰： 顷者师旅未解，用度不足，故行什一之税。今军士屯田，粮储差积。
其令郡国收见田租三十税一，如旧制。
隗嚣遣将行巡寇扶风，征西大将军冯异拒破之。
是岁，初罢郡国都慰官。
又诏曰： 世以厚葬为德，薄终为鄙，至于富者奢僣，贫者单财，法令不能禁，礼义不能止，仓卒乃知其咎。其布告天下，令知忠臣、孝子、慈兄、悌弟薄葬送终之义。
二月辛巳，罢护漕都尉官。
三月丁酉，诏曰： 今国有众军，并多精勇，宜且罢轻车、骑士、材官、楼船士及军假吏，令还复民伍。
公孙述立隗嚣为朔宁王。
癸亥晦，日有食之，避正殿，寝兵，不听事五日。
诏曰： 吾德薄致灾，谪见日月，战栗恐惧，夫何言哉！
今方念愆，庶消厥咎。
其令有司各修职任，奉遵法度，惠兹元元。
百僚各上封事，无有所讳。
其上书者，不得言圣。
translation: 
"The Book of Songs" says: There are ominous signs in the sun and moon, which are signs of failure.
I often think about my mistakes and feel sad inside.
The ministers are now ordered to recommend a virtuous person and an upright person, and all officials must submit a sealed report. Do not hide any concerns; officials must abide by the legal system when performing their duties.
On Ding Mao in the eleventh month, Wang Mang issued an edict that all officials and people who were not slaves and who were not in compliance with the old law should be exempted from becoming commoners.
On December 27, the Grand Sikong Song Hong was dismissed from his post.
On the 28th, Emperor Guangwu issued an edict saying: In the past, due to the constant wars and the high cost of the army, a tax of one out of ten was implemented. Now the army has implemented farming and has a small amount of grain reserves.
Now the counties and counties are ordered to restore the old system of thirty taxes and one tax.
In December, Kaixiao sent generals to patrol Fufeng. General Feng Yi resisted and defeated him.
This year, officials in the prefectures and counties began to be dismissed.
He began to send lieutenants into his own kingdom. The Xiongnu sent envoys to offer gifts, and Emperor Guangwu sent Zhonglang General to return the visit. On the second day of the first lunar month in the seventh year of spring, Emperor Guangwu issued an edict to the central government officials, three assistants, counties, and states to release prisoners in custody. Except for capital crimes, all prisoners were exempted from investigation and prosecution. Those serving hard labor were exempted from punishment and became civilians. Those who had been sentenced to more than two years and escaped, their names were recorded for investigation. He also issued an edict saying: People in the world regard generous burials as a virtue and despise those practices of frugal funerals. As a result, the rich are excessively extravagant and the poor exhaust their property. Laws cannot prohibit it and etiquette cannot restrict it. Only in troubled times do we realize the harm of generous burial. I am announcing this to the world, hoping that everyone will understand that being a loyal minister, a filial son, a kind brother, and a wise brother, and giving a low burial to the deceased is a wise and moral act.
On February 17, the captain of the canal guard was dismissed.
On the fourth day of March, Emperor Guangwu issued an edict stating: Now that the country has a large number of troops, most of which are elite, the light chariots, knights, craftsmen, ship officers and temporarily added officers in the army should be reduced, and they should be allowed to return to their hometowns and serve the people.
Gongsun Shu established Kaixiao as King Shuoning.
On the 30th, dusk, solar eclipse. Emperor Guangwu avoided the main hall, did not engage in fighting, and ignored state affairs for five days.
The edict was issued: My poor moral conduct has led to disasters. Heaven's condemnation appears in the sun and moon. I am trembling and fearful. What can I say?
Now I should reflect on my mistakes and hope to eliminate them.
Officials must fulfill their duties faithfully, abide by disciplines and laws, and benefit the people.
All the officials should go to the meeting in a sealed manner and do not keep secrets.
Those who submit this letter should not say that I am a sage.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
夏四月壬午，诏曰： 比阴阳错谬，日月薄食。百姓有过，在予一人，大赦天下。
公、卿、司隶、州牧举贤良、方正各一人，遣诣公车，朕将览试焉。
五月戊戌，前将军李通为大司空。
甲寅，诏吏人遭饥乱及为青、徐贼所略为奴婢下妻，欲去留者，恣听之。
敢拘制不还，以卖人法从事。
是夏，连雨水。
汉忠将军王常为横野大将军。
八月丁亥，封前河间王邵为河间王。
隗嚣寇安定，征西大将军冯异、征虏将军祭遵击却之。
冬，卢芳所置朔方太守田飒、云中太守乔扈各举郡降。
是岁，省长水、射声二校尉官。
八年春正月，中郎将来歙袭略阳，杀隗嚣守将而据其城。
夏四月，司隶校尉傅抗下狱死。
隗嚣攻来歙，不能下。
闰月，帝自征嚣，河西大将军窦融率五郡太守与车驾会高平。
陇右溃，隗嚣奔西城，遗大司马吴汉、征南大将军岑彭围之；进幸上邽，不降，命虎牙大将军盖延、建威大将军耿弇攻之。
颍川盗贼寇没属县，河东守守兵亦叛，京师骚动。
秋，大水。
八月，帝自上邽晨夜东驰。
九月乙卯，车驾还宫。
庚申，帝自征颍川盗贼，皆降。
安丘侯张步叛归琅邪，琅邪太守陈俊讨获之。
戊寅，至自颍川。
冬十月丙午，幸怀。
十一月乙丑，至自怀。
公孙述遣兵救隗器，吴汉、盖延等还军长安。
天水、陇西复反归嚣。
十二月，高句丽王遣使奉贡。
是岁大水。
九年春正月，隗器病死，其将王元、周宗复立嚣子纯为王。
徙雁门吏人于太原。
三月辛亥，初置青巾左校尉官。
公孙述遣将田戎、任满据荆门。
夏六月丙戌，幸缑氏，登轘辕。
translation: 
On April 19th in the summer, Emperor Guangwu issued an edict saying: Recently, the yin and yang have been reversed, and the sun and the moon are approaching and eclipsing each other. If the people have any mistakes, blame it on me alone, and grant amnesty to the world.
The Duke, Qing, Sili, and Zhou Mu recommend each one of them to be a virtuous person and a person who is upright. Come to the bus door and I will meet them and take the exam.
On the sixth day of May, former general Li Tong became the Grand Sikong.
On the 22nd, the officials were ordered to go or stay, according to their own wishes, if they suffered from famine, war, or were robbed by Qingzhou and Xuzhou thieves as slaves and wives.
Those who dare to detain and refuse to release them will be charged with human trafficking.
This summer, it rained continuously.
Wang Chang, the loyal general of the Han Dynasty, was appointed as the general of Hengye.
On August 26, Liu Shao, the former King of Hejian, was granted the title of King of Hejian.
Wei Xiao invaded An Ding, and General Feng Yi and General Ji Zun of Zhengxi drove him back.
In winter, Lu Fang appointed Tian Sa, the prefect of Shuofang, and Qiao Hu, the prefect of Yunzhong, to lead the entire county to surrender.
This year, the lieutenants of Changshui and Shesheng schools were omitted.
In the first month of the spring of the eighth year, Zhonglang attacked Lueyang from behind, killed the guard general Weixiao and occupied the city.
In April of summer, Sili school captain Fu Kang died in prison.
Wei Xiao came to attack She, but failed to capture it.
In the leap month, Emperor Guangwu personally marched against Kaixiao. Hexi General Dou Rong led the prefects of five counties to meet Emperor Guangwu in Gaoping.
Wei Xiao was defeated at Longyou and fled to the west city. Emperor Guangwu sent Grand Sima Wu Han and General Zhengnan Cen Peng to surround Xicheng. When Emperor Guangwu arrived at Shangguiquan, Kaixiao refused to surrender, so he sent General Huya Gai Yan and General Jianwei Geng to attack him.
Yingchuan bandits invaded and captured the counties under Yingchuan. The governor of Hedong and the guards also rebelled, causing shock and commotion in Kyoto.
In autumn, there are floods.
In August, Emperor Guangwu drove east from Shangguang day and night.
On the first day of September, I returned to Luoyang.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, Emperor Guangwu personally conquered the Yingchuan thieves and surrendered.
Anqiu Marquis Zhang Bu rebelled and returned to Langfu. Chen Jun, the governor of Langfu, attacked Zhang Bu and captured him alive.
On the 24th, Emperor Guangwu returned to Beijing from Yingchuan.
On the twenty-second day of the tenth month in winter, Emperor Guangwu arrived in Huai County.
On November 12, he returned to Beijing from Huai County.
Gongsun Shu sent troops to rescue Wei Xiao, and Wu Han, Gai Yan and others led the army back to Chang'an.
Tianshui and Longxi rebelled and joined Kuaixiao.
In December, the King of Goguryeo sent an envoy to pay tribute.
This year, there was a flood.
In the first month of the spring of the ninth year, Wei Xiao died of illness. His subordinates Wang Yuan and Zhou Zong made Wei Xiao's son Kai Chun king.
Moved Yanmen officials and people to Taiyuan.
On the first day of March, the Qingjin Left School Lieutenant began to be appointed.
Gongsun Shu sent generals Tian Rong and Ren Man to occupy Jingmen.
On the sixth day of the sixth lunar month in the summer, Emperor Guangwu went to Fengshi and climbed Mount Fuyuan.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
遣大司马吴汉率四将军击卢芳将贾览于高柳，战不利。
秋八月，遣中郎将来歙监征西大将军冯异等五将军讨隗纯于天水。
骠骑大将军杜茂与贾览战于繁畤，茂军败绩。
是岁，省关都尉，复置护羌校尉官。
十年春正月，大司马吴汉率捕虏将军王霸等五将军击贾览于高柳，匈奴遣骑救览，诸将与战，却之。
修理长安高庙。
夏，征西大将军冯异破公孙述将赵匡于天水，斩之。
征西大将军冯异薨。
秋八月己亥，幸长安，祠高庙，遂有事十一陵。
戊戌，进幸氵幵。隗嚣将高峻降。
冬十月，中郎将来歙等大破隗纯于落门，其将王元奔蜀，纯与周宗降，陇右平。
先零羌寇金城、陇西，来歙率诸将击羌于五溪，大破之。
庚寅，车驾还宫。
是岁，省定襄郡，徙其民于西河。
泗水王歙薨。淄川王终薨。
十一年春二月己卯，诏曰： 天地之性人为贵。
其杀奴婢，不得减罪。
三月己酉，幸南阳；还，幸章陵，祠园陵。
城阳王祉薨。
庚午，车驾还宫。
闰月，征南大将军岑彭率三将军与公孙述将田戎、任满战于荆门，大破之，获任满。
威虏将军冯骏围田戎于江州，岑彭遂率舟师伐公孙述，平巴郡。
夏四月丁卯，省大司徒司直官。
先零羌寇临洮。
六月，中郎将来歙率扬武将军马成破公孙述将王元、环安于下辩。
安遣间人刺杀中郎将来歙。
帝自将征公孙述。
秋七月，次长安。
八月，岑彭破公孙述将侯丹于黄石。
辅威将军臧宫与公孙述将延岑战于沈水，大破之。
王元降。
至自长安。
癸亥，诏曰： 敢灸灼奴婢，论如律，免所灸灼者为庶人。
冬十月壬午，诏除奴婢射伤人弃市律。
公孙述遣间人刺杀征南大将军岑彭。
马成平武都，因陇西太守马援击破先零羌，徙致天水、陇西、扶风。
十二月，大司马吴汉率舟师伐公孙述。
是岁，省朔方牧，并并州。
初断州牧自还奏事。
十二年春正月，大司马吴汉与公孙述将史兴战于武阳，斩之。
三月癸酉，诏陇、蜀民被略为奴婢自讼者，及狱官未报，一切免为庶人。
夏，甘露降南行唐。
六月，黄龙见东阿。
秋七月，威虏将军冯骏拔江州，获田戎。
九月，吴汉大破公孙述将谢丰于广都，斩之。
辅威将军臧宫拔涪城，斩公孙恢。
大司空李通罢。
冬十一月戊寅，吴汉、臧宫与公孙述战于成都，大破之。
述被创，夜死。
辛巳，吴汉屠成都，夷述宗族及延岑等。
十二月辛卯，扬武将军马成行大司空事。
是岁，九真徼外蛮夷张游率种人内属，封为归汉里君。
省金城郡属陇西。
参狼羌寇武都，陇西太守马援讨降之。
诏边吏力不足战则守，追虏料敌不拘以逗留法。
横野大将军王常薨。遣骠骑大将军杜茂将众郡施刑屯北边，筑亭候，修烽燧。
十三年春正月庚申，大司徒侯霸薨。
戊子，诏曰： 往年已敕郡国，异味不得有所献御，今犹未止，非徒有豫养导择之劳，至乃烦扰道上，疲费过所。
其令太官勿复受。
明敕下以远方口实所以荐宗庙，自如旧制。
二月，遣捕虏将军马武屯滹沱河以备匈奴。
卢芳自五原亡入匈奴。
丙辰，诏曰： 长沙王兴、真定王得、河间王邵、中山王茂，皆袭爵为王，不应经义。
translation: 
He sent Grand Sima Wu Han to lead four generals to attack Lu Fang's general Jia Lan in Gaoliu, but the battle was unfavorable.
In the eighth month of autumn, Zhonglang was sent to supervise General Feng Yi and other five generals in Tianshui's crusade against Wei Chun.
The hussar general Du Mao fought with Jia Lan in Fanri, and Du Mao was defeated.
In this year, the Guandu Lieutenant was abolished and the Qiang School Lieutenant was restored.
In the first month of the spring of the tenth year, Grand Sima Wu Han led the captured general Wang Ba and other five generals to attack Jia Lan in Gaoliu. The Huns sent cavalry to rescue Jia Lan, and the generals fought with them and drove them back.
Repair the high temple in Chang'an.
In the summer, Feng Yi, the general who conquered the west, defeated Gongsun Shu's general Zhao Kuang in Tianshui and killed him.
General Feng Yi died.
On the twenty-fifth day of the eighth month in autumn, Emperor Guangwu went to Chang'an to worship at the Gaomiao Temple and the Eleven Tombs.
In the Wuxu period, Emperor Guangwu marched to the county, and Weixiao general Gao Jun surrendered.
In the tenth month of winter, Zhonglang came to She and others to defeat Wei Chun at Luomen. Wei Chun fled Wang Yuan to Shu. Wei Chun and Zhou Zong surrendered, and Longyou was pacified.
First, the Qiang bandits harassed Jincheng and Longxi. Later, Lai She led his generals to attack the Qiang people in Wuxi and defeated the Qiang people.
On the 17th, Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang.
This year, Dingxiang County was abolished and the people moved to Xihe.
King Liu She of Sishui and King Liu of Zichuan died.
On the eighth day of the second lunar month in the spring of the eleventh year, an edict was issued saying: Human beings are the most precious spiritual being between heaven and earth.
Even if the person killed was a slave or a maid, the crime of murder would not be mitigated.
On the ninth day of the third lunar month, Emperor Guangwu went to Nanyang; on his way back to Luoyang, he passed by Zhangling and paid homage to the tomb in the garden.
Liu Zhi, King of Chengyang, passed away.
On the 30th, Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang.
In the third month of the leap month, Cen Peng, the general who conquered the south, led three generals to fight Gongsun Shu's generals Tian Rong and Ren Man at Jingmen. They defeated him and captured Ren Man alive.
Weilu general Feng Jun besieged Tian Rong in Jiangzhou. Cen Peng led the navy to attack Gongsun Shu and pacified Bajun.
On April 28th of the summer, Great Situ was dismissed as the direct official.
First there were no Qiang bandits plundering Lintao.
In the sixth month, Zhonglang came to She and led Yangwu general Ma Cheng to defeat Gongsun Shu generals Wang Yuan and Huan'an in Xiabian.
Huan'an sent spies to assassinate Zhonglang and later She.
Emperor Guangwu personally conquered Gongsun Shu.
In the seventh month of autumn, he was stationed in Chang'an.
In August, Cen Peng defeated Gongsun Shu's general Hou Dan at Huangshitan.
General Zang Gong of Auxiliary Wei fought against Gongsun Shu's general Yancen in Shenshui, and Yancen was defeated.
Wang Yuan surrendered.
Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang from Chang'an.
On August 26, the edict stated: Anyone who dares to burn slaves or maids will be punished according to the law, and the burned slaves will be exempted from civilian status.
In the tenth month of winter, at Renwu, an edict was issued to abolish the law that required slaves and maids to be executed in public if they shot someone.
Gongsun Shu sent spies to assassinate Cen Peng, the general who conquered the south.
Ma Cheng pacified Wudu. Taking advantage of the Longxi prefect Ma Yuan's defeat of the Xianling Qiang, he moved the people of Wudu to Tianshui, Longxi, and Fufeng.
In December, Grand Sima Wu Han led the navy to attack Gongsun Shu.
In this year, Shuofang Mu was eliminated and merged with the state.
The system of state pastors going to Beijing to report on government affairs at the end of the year began to be stopped.
In the first month of the spring of the twelfth year, Grand Sima Wu Han fought with Gongsun Shu's general Shi Xing in Wuyang and killed Shi Xing.
On the ninth day of the third month, it was decreed that the people of Long and Shu who were robbed to be slaves and maidservants and then went to the government to sue, as well as those who had not been judged by the judicial officials, were exempted from becoming civilians.
In summer, timely rain falls in Nanxingtang.
In June, a yellow dragon appears in Dongyang.
In the seventh month of autumn, Weilu general Feng Jun captured Jiangzhou and captured Tian Rong.
In September, Wu Han defeated Gongsun Shu's general Xie Feng in Guangdu and killed him.
General Zang Gong of Auxiliary Wei captured Fucheng and killed Gongsun Hui.
Grand Sikong Li Tong was dismissed from office.
On November 18th in winter, Wu Han and Zang Gong fought with Gongsun Shu in Chengdu and defeated Gongsun Shu.
Gongsun Shu was seriously injured and died that night.
On the 21st, Wu Han massacred Chengdu and executed all Gongsun Shu's relatives and Yancen.
On the first day of the twelfth lunar month, General Yangwu Ma Cheng took over the duties of the Great Sikong.
In this year, Zhang You, a barbarian from outside Jiuzhen Realm, led his tribesmen to surrender and was named the Lord of Guihanli.
Jincheng County was removed and belonged to Longxi.
The Shenlang Qiang invaded Wudu, and Ma Yuan, the governor of Longxi, attacked them and forced them to surrender.
The imperial edict ordered the border fortress officers and soldiers to defend if they were unable to attack due to lack of strength. The distance of pursuing the enemy could be determined according to the situation, and would not be punished by the "stay law".
General Wang Chang of Hengye passed away, and he sent General Du Mao of the Hussars to lead the unshackled prisoners in ocher clothes from all counties to garrison in the north, build lookouts and build beacon towers.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the spring of the thirteenth year, the great Situ Houba passed away.
On the 29th, Emperor Guangwu issued an edict saying: In previous years, I ordered the counties not to contribute exotic delicacies, but this has not stopped yet. Not only is there the labor of raising and selecting them in advance, but there is also the trouble of transportation and transportation.
Adds to the effort and expense of the areas being transported. The eunuch who was in charge of the royal meal stopped accepting it.
I once ordered that food from distant places be used to recommend food to ancestral temples, and the original system is still followed.
In February, the captive general Ma Wu was sent to garrison Hutuo River to guard against the Xiongnu.
Lu Fang rebelled against the Huns from Wuyuan.
On the 27th, Emperor Guangwu issued an edict saying: King Liu Xing of Changsha, King Liu De of Zhending, King Liu Shao of Hejian, and King Liu Mao of Zhongshan all assumed the title of king, but their bloodlines are distant, so it is against the classical principles to be kings.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
其以兴为临湘侯，得为真定侯，邵为乐成侯，茂为单父侯。 其宗室及绝国封侯者凡一百三十七人。
丁巳，降赵王良为赵公，太原王章为齐公，鲁王兴为鲁公。
庚午，以殷绍嘉公孔安为宋公，周承休公姬武为卫公。
省并西京十三国：广平属巨鹿，真定属常山，河间属信都，城阳属琅邪，泗水属广陵，淄川属高密，胶东属北海，六安属庐江，广阳属上谷。
三月辛未，沛郡太守韩歆为大司徒。
丙子，行大司空马成罢。
夏四月，大司马吴汉自蜀还京师，于是大飨将士，班劳策勋。
功臣增邑更封，凡三百六十五人。
其外戚恩泽封者四十五人。
罢左右将军官。
建威大将军耿弇罢。
益州传送公孙述瞽师、郊庙乐器、葆车、舆辇，于是法物始备。
时，兵革既息，天下少事，文书调役，务从简寡，至乃十存一焉。
甲寅，冀州牧窦融为大司空。
五月，匈奴寇河东。
秋七月，广汉徼外白马羌豪率种人内属。
九月，日南徼外蛮夷献白雉、白兔。
冬十二月甲寅，诏益州民自八年以来被略为奴婢者，皆一切免为庶人；或依托为人下妻，欲去者，恣听之；敢拘留者，比青、徐二州以略人法从事。
复置金城郡。
十四年春正月，起南宫前殿。
匈奴遣使奉献，使中郎将报命。
夏四月辛巳，封孔子后志为褒成侯。
越巂人任贵自称太守，遣使奉计。
秋九月，平城人贾丹杀卢芳将尹由来降。
是岁，会稽大疫。
莎车国、鄯善国遣使奉献。
十二月癸卯，诏益、凉二州奴婢，自八年以来自讼在所官，一切免为庶人，卖者无还直。
十五年春正月辛丑，大司徒韩歆免，自杀。
丁未，有星孛于昴。
translation: 
Liu Xing was renamed Linxiang Marquis, Liu De was Zhending Marquis, Liu Shao was Lecheng Marquis, and Liu Mao was Shanfu Marquis. There are a total of 137 people from the clan and those who interrupted the succession and were ennobled as marquises.
On the 28th, King Liu Liang of Zhao was made Duke of Zhao, King Liu Zhang of Taiyuan was made Duke of Qi, and King Liu Xing of Lu was made Duke of Lu.
On March 11, Kong An, Duke Jia of Yin Shao, was granted the title of Duke of Song, and Duke Chengxiu of Zhou Ji Wu was granted the title of Duke of Wei.
The nine feudal states in the Western Han Dynasty were omitted and merged: Guangping merged with Julu, Zhending merged with Changshan, Hejian merged with Xindu, Chengyang merged with Langfu, Sishui merged with Guangling, Zichuan merged with Gaomi, Jiaodong merged with Beihai, Liu'an merged with Lujiang, and Guangyang merged with Shanggu.
On March 12, Han Xin, the governor of Peijun, was appointed as the chief situ.
On March 17, acting chief minister Kong Ma Cheng was dismissed from office.
In April of summer, Grand Sima Wu Han returned to the capital from Shu, so he held a big banquet to reward the officers and soldiers, announced everyone's merits and recorded them in a book.
The number of meritorious officials increased and their titles were renewed, totaling 365 people.
Forty-five people were honored by their relatives.
Get rid of the left and right generals.
Jianwei General Geng Yan was dismissed from office.
Yizhou sent Gongsun Shu Gushi, suburban temple musical instruments, carriages, and chariots from one place to another. Only then did the utensils for various ceremonies in the palace begin to be completed.
By this time the war had ended, and there was peace and few things going on in the world. Official documents were required to levy and send out servants, so they had to be simply reduced, so that the number was only one-tenth of what it was before.
On the 26th, he appointed Mu Dou of Jizhou as Da Sikong.
In May, the Xiongnu invaded Hedong.
In the seventh month of autumn, outside the Great Wall of Guanghan, the Baima Qianghao led his tribesmen to surrender.
In September, the barbarians outside the Great Wall of Japan presented white pheasants and white rabbits.
On the 30th day of the twelfth lunar month in winter, the edict was issued to the residents of Yizhou who had been robbed as slaves and maidservants in the past eight years since Gongsun Shu's death, and were to be restored to civilian status. Those who rely on others to become concubines and want to leave should be allowed to do so of their own free will; those who dare to stay and are difficult to detain will be punished by the Population Robbery Law according to the methods of Qing and Xu Prefectures.
Restore setting Jincheng County.
In the spring and first month of the fourteenth year, the front hall of the Nangong was built.
The Huns sent envoys to pay tribute, and Emperor Guangwu sent General Liu Xiang to pay a return visit to the Huns.
On April 29th in the summer, Kong Zhi, a descendant of Confucius, was granted the title of Bongchenghou.
Rengui, a native of Yuexi, claimed to be the governor and sent an envoy to bring hundreds of names.
In autumn and September, Jia Dan, a native of Pingcheng, killed Lu Fang's general Yin You and surrendered.
This year, the Kuaiji plague spread widely.
Shache Kingdom and Shanshan Kingdom sent envoys to pay tribute.
On the 12th day of the twelfth month of the lunar month, the imperial edict ordered slaves from Yi and Liang prefectures to be restored to civilian status without having to repay their worth.
In the fifteenth year of the year, on the 23rd of the first lunar month of spring, Great Situ Han Xin was dismissed from office and committed suicide.
On the 29th, a comet appeared in the Pleiades.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
汝南太守欧阳歙为大司徒。
建义大将军朱祐罢。
丁未，有星孛于营室。
二月，徙雁门、代郡、上谷三郡民，置常山关、居庸关以东。
初，巴蜀既平，大司马吴汉上书请封皇子，不许，重奏连岁。
三月，乃诏群臣议。
大司空融、固始侯通、胶东侯复、高密侯禹、太常登等奏议曰： 古者封建诸侯，以藩屏京师。
周封八百，同姓诸姬并为建国，夹辅王室，尊事天子，享国永长，为后世法。
故《诗》云： 大启尔宇，为周室辅。
高祖圣德，光有天下，亦务亲亲，封立兄弟诸子，不违旧章。陛下德横天地，兴复宗统，褒德赏勋，亲睦九族，功臣宗室，咸蒙封爵，多受广地，或连属县。
今皇子赖天，能胜衣趋拜，陛下恭谦克让，抑而未议，群臣百姓，莫不失望。
宜因盛夏吉时，定号位，以广藩辅，明亲亲，尊宗庙，重社稷，应古合旧，厌塞众心。
臣请大司空上舆地图，太常择吉日，具礼仪。 制曰： 可。
夏四月戊申，以太牢告祠宗庙。
丁巳，使大司空融告庙，封皇子辅为右翊公，英为楚公，阳为东海公，康为济南公，苍为东平公，延为淮阳公，荆为山阳公，衡为临淮公，焉为左翊公，京为琅邪公。
癸丑，追谥兄伯升为齐武公，兄仲为鲁哀公。
六月庚午，复置屯骑、长水、射声三校尉官，改青巾左校尉为越骑校尉。
诏下州郡检核垦田顷亩及户口年纪，又考实二千石长吏阿枉不平者。
冬十一月甲戌，大司徒欧阳歙下狱死。
十二月庚午，关内侯戴涉为大司徒。
卢芳自匈奴入居高柳。
是岁，骠骑大将军杜茂免。
虎牙大将军盖延薨。
十六年春二月，交阯女子微侧反，略有城邑。
translation: 
He appointed Ouyang She, the governor of Runan, as the chief situ.
Jianyi General Zhu You was dismissed from office.
On the 29th, a comet appeared in the camp.
In February, the residents of Yanmen, Daijun and Shanggu counties were relocated to the east of Changshan Pass and Juyong Pass.
At the beginning, Bashu had been pacified, and the Grand Sima Wu Han wrote a letter asking for the title of prince. Emperor Guangwu refused, so Wu Han continued to write letters on this matter for several years.
In March, Emperor Guangwu ordered officials to discuss.
The Great Sikong Dou Rong, the First Marquis of the Kingdom Li Tong, the Marquis of Jiaodong Jia Fu, the Marquis of Gaomi Deng Yu, Taichang Deng and others wrote letters saying: In ancient times, princes were enfeoffed and feudal states were established to serve as a barrier for the capital.
In the Zhou Dynasty, there were 800 feudal princes. Anyone with the surname Ji established a princely state, assisted the royal family around them, and served the emperor respectfully. As a result, the country's destiny was long-lasting and set an example for future generations.
所以《诗经》上说 ：大大地开放经营你所管辖的地方，作为我周家天下的辅佐。
The great ancestor was wise and had great influence over the world. He also valued the relationship between relatives and conferred titles on brothers and disciples without violating the laws of the past. The emperor's virtues filled the world and revitalized the ancestral traditions. He commended the virtuous and rewarded those with meritorious service. He was in harmony with the nine tribes and the meritorious clans were all granted titles. Most of them received large tracts of land, and some even connected several counties.
Now that the prince has grown up with the blessing of God, he can wear clothes and bow to him, but the emperor has been humble and restrained from granting him a title. The officials and the people are very disappointed.
We should take advantage of this good time in midsummer to determine the title of the prince, so as to expand the vassal auxiliary, show the righteousness of relatives, respect the ancestral temple and the country, comply with the ancient system and satisfy everyone's wishes.
We ask Da Sikong to present the map, Tai Chang chooses a good day and prepares the ceremony.
Emperor Guangwu ordered: "Okay." On the second day of April in summer, cattle, sheep and pigs are sacrificed to ancestors. On the eleventh day, the chief minister Kong Dourong was sent to inform the ancestral temple.
The princes were granted the titles of Prince Liu Fu as Duke of You Yi, Liu Ying as Duke of Chu, Liu Yang as Duke of Donghai, Liu Kang as Duke of Jinan, Liu Cang as Duke of Dongping, Liu Yan as Duke of Huaiyang, Liu Jing as Duke of Shanyang, and Liu Heng as Duke of Linhuai. Liu Yan was the Duke of Zuo Yigong, and Liu Jing was the Duke of Langfu.
Guichou, posthumously promoted his elder brother to Duke Wu of Qi, and his elder brother Liu Zhong to the title of Duke Ai of Lu.
On June 25, the three lieutenants of Tunqi, Changshui and Shesheng were restored; the captain of Qingjin Zuo was changed to the lieutenant of Yueqi.
An order was issued to order the prefectures and counties to inspect and verify the acres of cultivated land and the age and number of household registrations. He also examined two thousand officials who acted in a way that violated the law or acted unfairly.
On the first day of the eleventh month in winter, the great Situ Ouyang She was imprisoned and died in prison.
On December 27, Daishe, the Marquis of Guannei, was appointed as Chief Situ.
Lu Fang came to Gaoliu from the Xiongnu.
This year, General Du Mao was dismissed from his post.
Huya General Gai Yan passed away.
In the spring and February of the 16th year, the women of Jiaochangzhi rebelled and occupied some towns.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
三月辛丑晦，日有蚀之。
秋九月，河南尹张伋及诸郡守十余人，坐度田不实，皆下狱死。
郡国大姓及兵长、群盗处处并起，攻劫在所，害杀长吏。
郡县追讨，到则解散，去复屯结。
青、徐、幽、冀四州尤甚。
冬十月，遣使者下郡国，听群盗自相纠擿，五人共斩一人者，除其罪。
吏虽逗留回避故纵者，皆勿问，听以禽讨为效。
其牧守令长坐界内盗贼而不收捕者，又以畏忄耎捐城委守者，皆不以为负，但取获贼多少为殿最，唯蔽匿者乃罪之。
于是更相追捕，贼并解散。
徙其魁帅于它郡，赋田受禀，使安生业。
自是牛马放牧，邑门不闭。
卢芳遣使乞降，十二月甲辰，封芳为代王。
初，王莽乱后，货币杂用布、帛、金、粟。是岁，始行五铢钱。
十七年春正月，赵公良薨。
二月乙未晦，日有食之。
夏四月乙卯，南巡狩，皇太子及右翊公辅、楚公英、东海公阳、济南公康、东平公苍从，幸颍川，进幸叶、章陵。
五月乙卯，车驾还宫。
六月癸巳，临淮公衡薨。
秋七月，妖巫李广等群起据皖城，遣虎贲中郎将马援、骠骑将军段志讨之。
九月，破皖城，斩李广等。
冬十月辛巳，废皇后郭氏为中山太后，立贵人阴氏为皇后。
进右翊公辅为中山王，食常山郡。
其余九国公，皆即旧封进爵为王。
甲申，幸章陵。
修园庙，祠旧宅，观田庐，置酒作乐，赏赐。
时，宗室诸母因酣悦，相与语曰： 文叔少时谨信，与人不款曲，唯直柔耳。
今乃能如此！ 帝闻之，大笑曰： 吾理天下，亦欲以柔道行之。 乃悉为舂陵宗室起祠堂。
translation: 
March 30th, dusk, solar eclipse.
In the ninth month of autumn, Yin Zhangji and more than ten people from various counties in Henan Province were imprisoned and died for committing fraud when measuring their fields.
The generals, soldiers, and thieves of the county were causing chaos everywhere, looting the government offices and killing officials.
When the troops from the prefectures and counties went to attack, the soldiers dispersed, and after the soldiers left, they gathered together again.
The four states of Qing, Xu, You, and Ji are even more powerful.
In the tenth month of winter, envoys were sent to each county to deliver an edict: Let the gangsters report each other. If five people join forces to kill one person, they will be exempted from the crime of murder.
In the past, officials evaded or indulged, and they did not hold them accountable. They only looked at the results of their final arrests and expeditions.
If the pastoral commander is guilty of failing to collect and capture the bandits within the territory, or if he is afraid of weakness and gives up the territory he is guarding, he will not be considered guilty of dereliction of duty, but will only consider how many bandits are eliminated in the end. Only those who hide thieves will be punished.
So they cooperated to hunt each other, and the group of thieves disintegrated.
They also moved their leaders to other counties, gave them arable land, and provided them with grain to support their old age, so that they could live and work in peace and contentment.
From then on, cattle and horses grazed without guarding, and city gates did not need to be closed.
Lu Fang sent an envoy to ask for surrender. On the first day of December, Lu Fang was granted the title of acting king.
At first, after Wang Mang's rebellion, cloth, silk, gold, and millet were used as currency. This year, five baht coins began to be used.
In the first month of the spring of the seventeenth year, Zhao Gongliang passed away.
On February 29th, it was dark, and there was a solar eclipse.
In the fourth month of summer, Emperor Guangwu visited the south. The crown prince, Youyi Gong Liu Fu, Chu Gong Liu Ying, Donghai Gong Liu Yang, Jinan Gong Liu Kang, and Donghai Gong Liu Cang accompanied him to Yingchuan, then to Ye County and Zhangling.
On May 21st, I returned to Luoyang.
On June 29th, Duke Liu Heng of Linhuai passed away.
In the seventh month of autumn, Li Guang and others who were practicing witchcraft and sorcery gathered in Wancheng and occupied Wancheng. Emperor Guangwu sent Huben Zhonglang General Ma Yuan and Hussar General Duan Zhi to attack them.
In September, Wancheng was captured and Li Guang and others were killed.
On the 19th day of the tenth month in winter, Queen Guo was deposed as the Empress Dowager of Zhongshan, and the noble Yin was made empress.
He promoted Youyi Gong Liu Fu to the title of King of Zhongshan, and made Changshan County his seat.
The other nine princes were promoted to kings based on their original fiefdoms.
On the 22nd, Emperor Guangwu arrived at Zhangling.
Repair gardens and ancestral temples, offer sacrifices to old houses, inspect fields and houses, buy wine and have fun, and reward money and goods.
At this time, many mothers in the clan were talking to each other while they were drinking happily: Uncle Wen was cautious and honest when he was young, and he did not know how to deal with people attentively. He was always loyal and gentle, but today he became the emperor!
After hearing this, Guangwu laughed and said: When I govern the world, I will also use judo to implement government and education. Therefore, ancestral halls were built for the Chongling clan.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
有五凤凰见于颍川之郏县。
十二月，至自章陵。
是岁，莎车国遣使贡献。
十八年春二月，蜀郡守将史歆叛，遣大司马吴汉率二将军讨之，围成都。
甲寅，西巡狩，幸长安。
三月壬午，祠高庙，遂有事十一陵。
历冯翊界，进幸蒲坂，祠后土。
夏四月癸酉，车驾还宫。
甲戌，诏曰： 今边郡盗谷五十斛，罪至于死，开残吏妄杀之路，其蠲除此法，同之内郡。
遣伏波将军马援率楼船将军段志等击交阯贼微侧等。
甲申，幸河内。
戊子，至自河内。
五月，旱。
卢芳复亡入匈奴。
秋七月，吴汉拔成都，斩史歆等。
壬戌，赦益州所部殊死已下。
冬十月庚辰，幸宜城。还，祠章陵。
十二月乙丑，车驾还宫。
是岁，罢州牧，置刺史。
十九年春正月庚子，追遵孝宣皇帝曰中宗。
始祠昭帝、元帝于太庙，成帝、哀帝、平帝于长安，舂陵节侯以下四世于章陵。
妖巫单臣、傅镇等反，据原武，遣太中大夫臧宫围之。
夏四月，拔原武，斩臣、镇等。
伏波将军马援破交阯，斩微侧等。因击破九真贼都阳等，降之。
闰月戊申，进赵、齐、鲁三国公爵为王。
六月戊申，诏曰： 《春秋》之义，立子以贵。
东海王阳，皇后之子，宜承大统。
皇太子彊，崇执谦退，愿备藩国。
父子之情，重久违之。
其以彊为东海王，立阳为皇太子，改名庄。
秋九月，南巡狩。
壬申，幸南阳，进幸汝南南顿县舍，置酒会，赐吏人，复南顿田租岁。
translation: 
At this time, five phoenixes appeared in Jiaxian County, Yingchuan.
In December, Guangwu returned from Zhangling to Luoyang.
This year, the Kingdom of Yarkand sent envoys to pay tribute.
In the spring and February of the 18th year, Shi Xin, the guard general of Shu County, rebelled and sent the Grand Sima Wu Han to lead two generals to attack and surround Chengdu.
In Jiayin, Emperor Guangwu went west to inspect and arrived in Chang'an.
On Renwu in the third month, we visited the Gaomiao Temple and offered sacrifices to the Eleven Tombs.
Passing through Feng Yi's territory, we marched to Puban and offered sacrifices at Houtu Temple.
On the eighth day of April in the summer, Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang.
On the 15th, the edict stated: Anyone who steals fifty dendrobium rice from border counties will now be sentenced to death, setting a precedent for cruel officials to kill indiscriminately. This harsh law should be abolished and the criminalization standards should be the same as those in mainland counties.
Send Fubo General Ma Yuan and Louchuan General Duan Zhi and others to attack, and hand over the location to the bandit levy and others.
On the 25th, Emperor Guangwu arrived in Hanoi.
On the 29th, we returned to Luoyang from Hanoi.
In May, there was a drought.
Lu Fang fled to the Huns again.
In the seventh month of autumn, Wu Han captured Chengdu and killed Shi Xin and others.
In Renxu, criminals who rebelled against Yizhou were exempted from crime except those who had to be executed.
On the twenty-fourth day of the tenth month in winter, Emperor Guangwu went to Yicheng and when he returned to Luoyang, he offered sacrifices to Zhang Ling.
On December 10, Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang.
In this year, he was dismissed from the state as a pastor and appointed as a governor.
On the fifteenth day of the first lunar month in the spring of the nineteenth year, Emperor Xiaoxuan was honored as Zhongzong.
It began to enshrine Emperor Zhao and Emperor Yuan in the Taimiao; Emperor Cheng, Emperor Ai, and Emperor Ping in Chang'an; and the following four generations of Chung Ling Jiehou were in Zhangling.
Shan Chen, Fu Zhen and others who were practicing witchcraft rebelled, occupied Yuanwu, and sent Taizhong doctor Zang Gong to encircle and suppress them.
In the fourth month of summer, they captured Yuanwu, killed Shanchen, Fu Zhen and others.
General Fubo Ma Yuan captured Jiaozhi, killed Zheng Side and others, and took the opportunity to defeat Jiuzhen thief Du Yang and others, making them surrender.
On the 25th of leap April, he was promoted to Duke of Zhao, Qi and Lu.
On June 26, the edict stated: According to the principles of the Spring and Autumn Annals, the criterion for establishing a prince is noble birth.
Liu Yang, King of the East China Sea, the son of the Queen, should inherit the throne.
The crown prince Liu Qiang respected and humbled himself and was willing to become the king of the vassal states.
The relationship between father and son makes it difficult for me to go against his wishes for a long time.
Now Liu Qiang is the king of East China Sea, Liu Yang is made the crown prince, and his name is changed to Zhuang.
In the ninth month of autumn, Emperor Guangwu visited the south.
On the 21st, he went to Nanyang and then to the residence of Nanton County in Runan County. He held a banquet to reward the officials and exempted him from the land rent in Nanton County for one year.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
父老前叩头言： 皇考居此日久，陛下识知寺舍，每来辄加厚恩，愿赐复十年。 帝曰： 天下重器，常恐不任，日复一日，安敢远期十岁乎？ 吏人又言： 陛下实惜之，何言谦也？ 帝大笑，复增一岁。
进幸淮阳、梁、沛。
西南夷寇益州郡，遣武威将军刘尚讨之。
越巂太守任贵谋叛，十二月，刘尚袭贵，诛之。
是岁，复置函谷关都尉。
修西京宫室。
二十年春二月戊子，车驾还宫。
夏四月庚辰，大司徒戴涉下狱死。
大司空窦融免。
五月辛亥，大司马吴汉薨。
匈奴寇上党、天水，遂至扶风。
六月庚寅，广汉太守蔡茂为大司徒，太仆朱浮为大司空。
壬辰，左中郎将刘隆为骠骑将军，行大司马事。
乙未，徙中山王辅为沛王。
秋，东夷韩国人率众诣乐浪内附。
冬十月，东巡狩。甲午，幸鲁，进幸东海、楚、沛国。
十二月，匈奴寇天水。
壬寅，车驾还宫。
是岁，省五原郡，徙其吏人置河东。复济阳县徭役六岁。
二十一年春正月，武威将军刘尚破益州夷，平之。
夏四月，安定属国胡叛，屯聚青山，遣将兵长史陈讨平之。
秋，鲜卑寇辽东，辽东太守祭肜大破之。
冬十月，遣伏波将军马援出塞击乌桓，不克。
匈奴寇上谷、中山。
其冬，鄯善王、车师王等十六国皆遣子入侍奉献，愿请都护。
帝以中国初定，未遑外事，乃还其侍子，厚加赏赐。
二十二年春闰月丙戌，幸长安，祠高庙，遂有事十一陵。
二月己巳，至自长安。
夏五月乙未晦，日有食之。
秋七月，司隶校尉苏邺下狱死。
translation: 
The elders came forward and kowtowed and said, "The emperor's father has lived here for a long time. The emperor is familiar with the government buildings here. Every time he comes, he is rewarded a lot." Please waive farm rent in Nanton County for ten years. The emperor said: The responsibility of governing the world is heavy. I often worry that I will not be able to do it. I am afraid that something will go wrong day by day. How dare I expect it to last ten years? The officials and the people also said: The emperor is actually reluctant to reduce or reduce the amount, why do he speak so humbly? Emperor Guangwu laughed and added another year to the rent-free period.
Emperor Guangwu marched to Huaiyang, Liang, Pei and other places.
The southwestern barbarians invaded Yizhou County, and Emperor Guangwu sent General Liu Shang to attack them.
Ren Gui, the governor of Yuexun, rebelled. In December, Liu Shang attacked Ren Gui and killed him.
This year, the establishment of the Hangu Pass Commandery was restored.
Repair the palace in Chang'an.
On the tenth day of the second lunar month in the spring of the 20th year, Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang.
On the third day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Situ Dai was involved in a crime and was imprisoned to death.
Dou Rong, the chief minister, was dismissed from office.
On the fourth day of May, Grand Sima Wu Han passed away.
The Huns invaded Shangdang, Tianshui, and even Fufeng.
On June 14, Cai Mao, the prefect of Guanghan, was appointed as the Grand Situ, and Zhu Fu, the imperial servant, was appointed as the Grand Sikong.
On the 18th, Zuo Zhonglang appointed Liu Long as the General of Hussars and took charge of the affairs of the Grand Sima.
On the 21st, Liu Fu, the king of Zhongshan, was transferred to be the king of Pei.
In autumn, Dongyi Koreans led the people to Lelang and surrendered to the mainland.
In the tenth month of winter, Emperor Guangwu inspected the east. On the 20th, he arrived in Lu and marched to the countries of Donghai, Chu and Pei.
In December, the Xiongnu invaded Tianshui.
On the 28th, Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang.
In this year, Wuyuan County was abolished, the officials and people were relocated to Hedong, and Jiyang County was exempted from corvee service for six years.
In the first month of the spring of the twenty-first year, General Liu Shang of Wuwei defeated the Yizhou Yi people and the place was pacified.
In April of summer, Hu rebelled in the Anding state and gathered in Qingshan. Emperor Guangwu sent General Shi Chen Yunjin to attack and quell the rebellion.
In the autumn, Xianbei invaded Liaodong, and the prefect of Liaodong sacrificed to the moon and defeated Xianbei.
In the tenth month of winter, he sent General Fubo Ma Yuan to the north of the Great Wall to attack Wuhuan, but failed to win.
The Xiongnu invaded Shanggu and Zhongshan.
In the winter of this year, King Shanshan, King Cheshi and other sixteen kingdoms all sent their sons to serve in the palace and contributed gifts. Please set up a guardian to protect them.
Emperor Guangwu considered that the country had just been pacified and had no time to care about external affairs, so he returned the sons they sent to serve and rewarded them with many gifts.
On the 19th day of the first month in the spring of the 22nd year, Emperor Guangwu went to Chang'an to worship the Gaomiao and the Eleven Tombs.
In February, I returned to Luoyang from Chang'an.
On May 30th in summer, it was dark and there was a solar eclipse.
In the seventh month of autumn, Su Ye, the captain of Sili School, was imprisoned and died.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
九月戊辰，地震裂。
制诏曰： 日者地震，南阳尤甚。
夫地者，任物至重，静而不动者也。
而今震裂，咎在君上。
鬼神不顺无德，灾殃将及吏人，朕甚惧焉。
其令南阳勿输今年田租刍稿。
遣谒者案行，其死罪系囚在戊辰以前，减死罪一等；徒皆弛解钳，衣丝絮。赐郡中居人压死者棺钱，人三千。
其口赋逋税而庐宅尤破坏者，勿收责。
吏人死亡，或在坏垣毁屋之下，而家羸弱不能收拾者，其以见钱谷取佣，为寻求之。
冬十月壬子，大司空朱浮免。
癸丑，光禄勋杜林为大司空。
是岁，齐王章薨。
青州蝗。
匈奴薁鞬日逐王比遣使诣渔阳请和亲，使中郎将李茂报命。
乌桓击破匈奴，匈奴北徒，幕南地空。诏罢诸边郡亭侯吏卒。
二十三年春正月，南郡蛮叛，遣武将军刘尚讨破之，徒其种人于江夏。
夏五月丁卯，大司徒蔡茂薨。
秋八月丙戌，大司空杜林薨。
九月辛未，陈留太守玉况为大司徒。
冬十月丙申，太仆张纯为大司空。
高句丽率种人诣乐浪内属。
十二月，武陵蛮叛，寇掠郡县，遣刘尚讨之，战于沅水，尚军败殁。
是岁，匈奴薁鞬日逐王比率部曲遣使诣西河内附。
二十四年春正月乙亥，大赦天下。
匈奴薁鞬日逐王比遣使款五原塞，求扞御北虏。
秋七月，武陵蛮寇临沅，遣谒者李嵩、中山太守马成讨蛮，不克，于是伏波将军马援率四将军讨之。
诏有司申明旧制阿附蕃王法。
冬十月，匈奴薁鞬日逐王比自立为南单于，于是分为南、北匈奴。
二十五年春正月，辽东徼外貊人寇右北平、渔阳、上谷、太原，辽东太守祭肜招降之。
translation: 
On the fifth day of September, there was an earthquake.
An edict was issued saying: The recent earthquake in Nanyang was particularly severe.
Originally the earth carried a heavy load and was calm and unshakable.
Now it is shaking and splitting, and the blame lies with the king.
The ghosts and gods are dissatisfied with the immoral behavior, and disasters will befall the officials and the people. I am very afraid.
Nanyang is now ordered not to pay land rent or firewood this year.
Visitors were sent to conduct inspections. Prisoners sentenced to death before the fifth day of September were exempted from death and their sentences reduced to one degree. Those sentenced to prison were released from shackles and could wear silk clothes. Those in the county who were crushed to death were given three thousand yuan for the coffin.
If you owe land tax, population tax, or if your residence is particularly damaged, do not collect the debt.
Officials and civilians died, and some were trapped under the ruined walls and houses. Those whose families were too poor to pay for burials used cash and grain to hire people to search for the deceased and take care of the funeral arrangements.
On October 18th, the great Sikong Zhufu was dismissed.
On the 19th, Guang Luxun and Du Lin were appointed as Grand Sikong.
This year, King Liu Zhang of Qi passed away.
Qingzhou was plagued by locusts.
The Xiongnu emperor Zhao Dan was chasing Wang Bi and sent people to Yuyang to ask for peace. Emperor Guangwu sent Li Mao, the lieutenant general, to return the visit.
Wuhuan defeated the Xiongnu, and the Xiongnu moved northward. The southern part of the desert was deserted, and an edict was issued to remove the officers and soldiers from the outposts in the border counties.
In the first month of the spring of the twenty-third year, the Nanjun barbarians rebelled and sent General Liu Shang to defeat them and move the people of this tribe to Jiangxia.
On the eighth day of the fifth lunar month in the summer, Grand Situ Cai Mao passed away.
In the eighth month of autumn, Bingxu, the great Sikong Dulin passed away.
On September 13th, Yu Kuang, the prefect of Chenliu, was appointed as the Grand Situ.
On the ninth day of the tenth lunar month in winter, Zhang Chun, the imperial servant, was appointed as the Grand Sikong.
Goguryeo led his tribe to join Lelang.
In December, the Wuling barbarians rebelled, plundered counties and counties, and sent Liu Shang to attack them. They fought in Yuanshui, and Liu Shang's entire army died in the battle.
In this year, the Xiongnu leader Zhao Gan Ri Zhu Wangbi led his subordinates and sent an envoy to Xihe Nei.
On the 19th day of the first lunar month in the spring of the 24th year, a general amnesty was given to all criminals in the world.
The Xiongnu's leader, Rizhu Wangbi, sent people to Wuyuan Fortress to express friendship and request that the Han family defend the northern tribes.
In the seventh month of autumn, Wuling barbarians invaded Linyuan. They sent Li Song, the envoy, and Ma Cheng, the prefect of Zhongshan, to attack them. However, they failed to win, so General Fubo Ma Yuan led four generals to attack them.
Some departments were ordered to clarify the previously formulated laws that stipulated that the princes and kings of Afu should be severely punished.
In the tenth month of winter, the Xiongnu conquered King Bi and proclaimed himself the Southern Chanyu, so the Xiongnu were divided into southern and northern parts.
In the first month of the spring of the twenty-fifth year, the Qi people from outside Liaodong invaded Beiping, Yuyang, Shanggu, and Taiyuan. The prefect of Liaodong sacrificed and surrendered to them.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
乌桓大人来朝。
南单于遣使诣厥贡献，奉蕃称臣；又遣其左贤王击破北匈奴，却地千余里。
三月，南单于遗子入侍。
戊申晦，日有食之。
伏波将军马援等破武陵蛮于临沅。
冬十月，叛蛮悉降。
夫馀王遣使奉献。
是岁，乌桓大人率众内属，诣厥朝贡。
二十六年春正月，诏有司增百官奉。其千石已上，减于西京旧制；六百石已下，增于旧秩。
初作寿陵。
将作大匠窦融上言： 园陵广袤，无虑所用。 帝曰： 古者帝王之葬，皆陶人瓦器，木车茅马，使后世之人不知其处。
太宗识终始之义，景帝能述遵孝道，遭天下反覆，而霸陵独完受其福，岂不美哉！
令所制地不过二三顷，无为山陵，陂池裁令流水而已。
遣中郎将段郴授南单于玺绶，令入居云中，始置使匈奴中郎将，将兵卫护之。
南单于遣子入侍，奉奏诣厥。
于是云中、五原、朔方、北地、定襄、雁门、上谷、代八郡民归于本土。
遣谒者分将施刑补理城郭。
发遣边民在中国者，布还诸县，皆赐以装钱，转输给食。
二十七年夏四月戊午，大司徒玉况薨。
五月丁丑，诏曰： 昔契作司徒，禹作司空，皆无 大 名，其令二府去 大 。 又改大司马为太尉。
骠骑大将军行大司马刘隆即日罢，以太仆赵熹为太尉，大司农冯勤为司徒。
益州郡徼外蛮夷率种人内属。
北匈奴遣使诣武威乞和亲。
冬，鲁王兴、齐王石始就国。
二十八年春正月己巳，徙鲁王兴为北海王，以鲁国益东海。
赐东海王彊虎贲、旄头、钟虡之乐。
夏六月丁卯，沛太后郭氏薨，因诏郡县捕王侯宾客，坐死者数千人。
秋八月戊寅，东海王彊、沛王辅、楚王英、济南王康、淮阳王延始就国。
translation: 
Commander Wuhuan Qu came to pay homage.
The Shanyu of the South sent envoys to the capital to pay tribute and pay tribute as a vassal state. He also sent his King Xian of Zuo to defeat the Northern Xiongnu and expand the territory for more than a thousand miles.
In March, Nan Shanyu sent his son to serve Emperor Guangwu.
On the 28th, it was dark, and there was a solar eclipse.
General Fubo Ma Yuan and others defeated the Wuling barbarians in Linyuan.
In the tenth month of winter, the rebel generals surrendered their capital.
King Fuyu sent envoys to pay tribute.
In this year, Wuhuan Qushuai led the people to surrender and went to the court to contribute gifts.
In the first month of the spring of the twenty-sixth year, the relevant departments were ordered to increase the salary of hundreds of officials. Those above one thousand shi would be less than the old standard in the Western Han Dynasty, and those below 600 shi would be increased than the old standard in the Western Han Dynasty.
Construction of Shouling began.
The great craftsman Dou Rong wrote a letter explaining the area occupied by the mausoleum and all the necessary utensils. Guangwu said: In ancient times, emperors were buried with pottery, earthenware vessels, wooden carts and thatched horses, so that future generations would not know their location.
Taizong understood the righteousness of life and death, Emperor Jing could abide by filial piety, and despite all the chaos in the world, Ba Ling remained intact. Isn't it a good thing?
The land planned now is only two or three hectares, and there are no mountains or hills. The Pichi can only be used to disperse water.
Emperor Guangwu sent Zhonglang General Duan Chen to grant the seal to Nandan Yu, allowing him to live in Yunzhong County in the interior. He began to set up the Xiongnu Zhonglang General to lead troops to protect the Southern Xiongnu.
Nan Danyu sent his son to the court to serve Guangwu and submitted a memorial.
So the people of the eight counties of Yunzhong, Wuyuan, Shuofang, Beidi, Dingxiang, Yanmen, Shanggu and Dai returned to their hometown.
Send emissaries to repair and tidy up the city respectively for those who have been released from prison.
The border residents who were dispatched and repatriated to the mainland were sent back to their respective counties of origin. They were all given transportation fees and supplies were transported by vehicles.
On April 21, summer 27, Great Situ Yukuang passed away.
On May 11th, Emperor Guangwu issued an edict saying: In the past, the title of "Situ" and "Sikong of Yu" did not have the character "". Now I order the two governments to remove the character "".
He also changed the rank of Grand Sima to Taiwei, and General Hussar acted as Grand Sima. Liu Long was dismissed from his post on that day, and his servant Zhao Xian was appointed as Taiwei, and the Grand Secretary Nong Feng Qin was appointed as Situ.
The tribes led by barbarians outside Yizhou County belong to it.
The Northern Huns sent envoys to Wuwei to request peace.
In winter, King Liu Xing of Lu and King Liu Shi of Qi entered the fiefdom.
On the first month of the spring of the twenty-eighth year, Liu Xing, the king of Lu, was transferred to the throne of Beihai, and the land of Lu was added to the East China Sea.
Reward Liu Qiang, King of the East China Sea, with the joy of tigers, heads, and bells.
On the seventh day of the sixth lunar month in Xia, Queen Mother Pei Guo passed away. Gengshi's son Liu Li used the help of Peixian King Liu Fu to kill Liu Penzi's brother Liu Gong. Emperor Guangwu ordered the counties to capture the princes' guests, resulting in thousands of deaths.
On August 19 in autumn, King Liu Qiang of Donghai, King Liu Fu of Pei, King Liu Ying of Chu, King Liu Kang of Jinan, and King Liu Yan of Huaiyang began to enter the fiefdom.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
冬十月癸酉，诏死罪系囚皆一切募下蚕室，其女子宫。
北匈奴遣使贡献，乞和亲。
二十九年春二月丁巳朔，日有食之。
遣使者举冤狱，出系囚。
庚申，赐天下男子爵，人二级；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃、贫不能自存者粟，人五斛。
夏四月乙丑，诏令天下系囚自殊死已下及徒各减本罪一等，其余赎罪输作各有差。
三十年春正月，鲜卑大人内属，朝贺。
二月，东巡狩。甲子，幸鲁，进幸济南。
闰月癸丑，车驾还宫。
有星孛于紫宫。
夏四月戊子，徙左翊王焉为中山王。
五月，大水。
赐天下男子爵，人二级；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃、贫不能自存者粟，人五斛。
秋七月丁酉。幸鲁国。
复济阳县是年徭役。
冬十一月丁酉，至自鲁。
三十一年夏五月，大水。
戊辰，赐天下男子爵，人二级；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃、贫不能自存者粟，人六斛。
癸酉晦，日有食之。
是夏，蝗。
秋九月甲辰，诏令死罪系囚皆一切募下蚕室，其女子宫。
是岁，陈留雨谷，形如稗实。
北匈奴遣使奉献。
中元元年春正月，东海王彊、沛王辅、楚王英、济南王康、淮阳王延、赵王盱皆来朝。
丁卯，东巡狩。
二月己卯，幸鲁，进幸太山。
北海王兴、齐王石朝于东岳。
辛卯，柴望岱宗，登封太山；甲午，禅于梁父。
三月戊辰，司空张纯薨。
夏四月癸酉，车驾还宫。
己卯，大赦天下。
复嬴、博、梁父、奉高，勿出今年田租刍稿。改年为中元。
行幸长安。
戊子，祀长陵。
五月乙丑，至自长安。
六月辛卯，太仆冯鲂为司空。
乙未，司徒冯勤薨。
是夏，京师醴泉涌出，饮之者固疾皆愈，惟眇、蹇者不瘳。
又有赤草生于水崖。
郡国频上甘露。
群臣奏言： 地祇灵应而朱草萌生。
孝宣帝每有嘉瑞，辄以改元、神爵、五凤、甘露、黄龙，列为年纪，盖以感致神祇，表彰德信。
translation: 
On the 15th day of the tenth month in winter, all prisoners sentenced to death were ordered to be summoned to the silkworm room to be tortured by rotting, and women were tortured by castration.
The Northern Huns sent envoys to pay tribute and beg for peace.
In the spring and February of the 29th year, there was a solar eclipse.
Emperor Guangwu sent people to redress the injustice and release the prisoners.
Geng Shen rewarded all the men in the world with a second-level title; those who were widowed, widowed, orphaned, alone, terminally ill, or too poor to survive were given five dendrobiums of millet.
On the tenth day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, an order was issued for all prisoners in the country to have their sentences below beheading reduced by one level for their original crime, and for the remaining atonements, they were ordered to do hard labor in varying degrees.
In the first month of the spring of the 30th year, Xianbei Qushuai returned to the mainland and paid tribute.
In February, Emperor Guangwu inspected the east. On the 13th, he arrived in Lu and marched to Jinan.
On the leap month of Guichou, Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang.
A comet appears in the Purple Palace.
On the ninth day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Liu Yan, king of Zuoyi, was appointed king of Zhongshan.
In May, the water rose.
The men in the world will be rewarded with a second-level title; those who are widowed, widowed, lonely, alone, terminally ill, or too poor to survive will be given five dendrobiums of millet.
In the seventh month of Autumn and Dingyou, Emperor Guangwu came to the State of Lu.
Jiyang County is exempted from corvee this year.
In the eleventh month of winter, I returned to Luoyang from Lu.
In the summer of the 31st May, the water rose.
On the 25th, all men in the world will be rewarded with a second-level title; those who are widowed, widowed, orphaned, alone, terminally ill, or too poor to survive will be given six bushels of grain.
On the 30th, it is dark, and a solar eclipse occurs.
This summer, there was a locust plague.
On the third day of the ninth lunar month in autumn, the imperial edict ordered that all prisoners sentenced to death were summoned to the jam room to be tortured by corruption, and women were tortured by castration.
This year, millet fell from the sky in Chenliu, shaped like tares.
The Northern Huns sent envoys to pay tribute.
In the first month of spring in the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, King Liu Qiang of East China Sea, King Liu Fu of Pei, King Liu Ying of Chu, King Liu Kang of Jinan, King Liu Yan of Huaiyang, and King Liu Xu of Zhao all came to Beijing to pay homage.
On the 28th, Emperor Guangwu made an eastward inspection tour.
On the tenth day of the second lunar month, Emperor Guangwu arrived in Lu and marched to Mount Tai.
Liu Xing, the king of Beihai, and Liu You, the king of Qi, paid homage to the emperor in Dongyue.
On the 22nd, they burned firewood to worship Daizong and climbed Mount Tai to worship heaven. On the 25th, they worshiped earth at Mount Liangfu.
On March 30, Sikong Zhang Chun passed away.
On the fifth day of April in the summer, Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang.
On the eleventh day, a general amnesty was given to the whole world.
Ying, Bo, Liang Fu, and Feng Gao are exempted from renting firewood for this year. The year name was changed to Zhongyuan.
Emperor Guangwu arrived in Chang'an.
On the 20th, sacrifices were made to Changling.
On May 28, the emperor returned to Luoyang from Chang'an.
On June 24, Feng Li, the imperial servant, was appointed Sikong.
On the 28th, Situ Fengqin passed away.
This summer, sweet spring water gushed out in the capital, and all the old and sick people who drank it were cured except the blind and lame.
There are also red grass growing on the cliffs beside the water.
The county has reported timely rain many times.
The ministers reported that the earth god had a spirit and the red grass sprouted.
Whenever an auspicious phenomenon appeared, Emperor Xiaoxuan would change the era according to the auspiciousness. Shenjue, Five Phoenixes, Manna, and Huanglong were listed as the year names. He probably used them to thank the gods and commend his virtue and integrity.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
是以化致升平，称为中兴。
今天下清宁，灵物仍降。
陛下情存损挹，推而不居，岂可使祥符显庆，没而无闻？
宜令太史撰集，以传来世。 帝不纳。
常自谦无德，每郡国所上，辄抑而不当，故史官罕得记焉。
秋，郡国三蝗。
冬十月辛未，司隶校尉东莱李为司徒。
甲申，使司空告祠高庙曰： 高皇帝与群臣约，非刘氏不王。
吕太后贼害三赵，专王吕氏，赖社稷之灵，禄、产伏诛，天命几坠，危朝更安。
吕太后不宜配食高庙，同祧至尊。
薄太后母德慈仁，孝文皇帝贤明临国，子孙赖福，延祚至今。
其上薄太后尊号曰高皇后，配食地祇。
迁吕太后庙主于园，四时上祭。
十一月甲子晦，日有食之。
是岁，初起明堂、灵台、辟雍，及北郊兆域。
宣布图谶于天下。
复济阳、南顿是年徭役。
参狼羌寇武都，败郡兵，陇西太守刘盱遣军救之，及武都郡兵讨叛羌，皆破之。
二年春正月辛未，初立北郊，祀后土。
东夷倭奴国王遣使奉献。
二月戊戌，帝崩于南宫前殿，年六十二。
遗诏曰： 朕无益百姓，皆如孝文皇帝制度，务从约省。
刺史、二千石长吏皆无离城郭，无遣吏及因邮奏。
初，帝在兵间久，厌武事，且知天下疲耗，思乐息肩。
自陇、蜀平后，非儆急，未尝复言军旅。
皇太子尝问攻战之事，帝曰： 昔卫灵公问陈，孔子不对，此非尔所及。 每旦视朝，日仄乃罢。
数引公卿、郎、将讲论经理，夜分乃寐。
translation: 
That’s why education spreads and the world becomes peaceful. It's called ZTE.
Now the world is at peace, and spiritual things are descending one after another.
The emperor's humble concession and rejection could drown out the auspiciousness of the auspicious talisman.
Taishi should be ordered to write and collect it so that it can be passed down to future generations. Emperor Guangwu did not accept it.
He was always self-effacing and immoral, and every time he reported good luck to the county, he suppressed it and did not publicize it, so historians rarely recorded it.
In autumn, there were three locust plagues in the county.
On the sixth day of the tenth lunar month in winter, Li Yunjin, a native of Donglai, was appointed as Situ.
On the 19th, he sent Sikong to offer sacrifices to Gaomiao and said: Emperor Gao has made an appointment with his ministers, and no one other than a descendant of the Liu family can be king.
Empress Dowager Lu brutally killed King Liu You of Zhao You, King Liu Hui of Zhao Gong, and King Liu Ruyi of Zhao Yin, and appointed Lu's son as king. Thanks to the response of heaven and earth, Lu Lu and Lu Chan were punished. The destiny is not lost, and the court is in danger.
Empress Dowager Lu should not be worthy of enjoying the high temple and sharing the supreme dignity.
Empress Dowager Bo's mother was kind and kind, Emperor Xiaowen governed the country wisely, and his descendants were blessed, and the lifeline of the country continues to this day.
She should be given the title of Empress Dowager Bo and Queen Gao, and she should be given the title of Empress Dowager Gao.
The empress dowager god's main tablet was moved to the tomb of Tomb Territory Garden, where sacrifices were made at all times.
It will be dark on November 29th, and there will be a solar eclipse.
In this year, the construction of Mingtang, Lingtai, Piyong, and Zhaoyu in the northern suburbs began.
Announce the prophecy to the world.
Jiyang and Nandun were exempted from corvee service this year.
The Shenlang Qiang invaded Wudu and defeated the county soldiers. Liu Xu, the governor of Longxi, sent troops to rescue them. The Wudu Jun soldiers attacked the rebel Qiang and defeated them all.
On the eighth day of the first lunar month in the spring of the second year, the northern suburbs altar was erected to offer sacrifices to Houtu.
The Dongyi Japanese Nu King sent envoys to pay tribute.
On the fifth day of February, Emperor Guangwu passed away in the front hall of the Nangong Palace at the age of sixty-two.
The edict said: I am of no use to the people. My future affairs will be in accordance with Emperor Xiaowen's system, and I must be frugal.
The governor and the two thousand chief officials were not allowed to leave the city where they were, and they were not allowed to send officials or send letters of condolence via post.
In the past, Emperor Guangwu had been in the military for a long time and was tired of fighting. He was well aware that the country was exhausted and wasted, and he wanted to take off his burdens and relax.
Since the pacification of Long and Shu, there has been little talk about the use of troops unless the situation is urgent.
The crown prince once asked about the war, and Guangwu said: In the past, Duke Ling of Wei asked Confucius about military matters, but Confucius did not answer. This is not what you want to study. Every morning when I go to work, the shadow of the sun stops setting.
He summoned ministers, ministers, and generals many times to discuss the principles of the scriptures, and did not go to bed until midnight.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
皇太子见帝勤劳不怠，承间谏曰： 陛下有禹、汤之明，而失黄、老养性之福，愿颐爱精神，优游自宁。 帝曰： 我自乐此，不为疲也。 虽身济大业，兢兢如不及，故能明慎政体，总揽权纲，量时度力，举无过事。
退功臣而进文吏，戢弓矢而散马牛，虽道未方古，斯亦止戈之武焉。
论曰：皇考南顿君初为济阳令，以建平元年十二月甲子夜生光武于县舍，有赤光照室中。
钦异焉，使卜者王长占之。
长辟左右曰： 此兆吉不可言。 是岁县界有嘉禾生，一茎九穗，因名光武曰秀。
明年，方士有夏贺良者，上言哀帝，云汉家历运中衰，当再受命。
于是改号为太初元年，称 陈圣刘太平皇帝 ，以厌胜之。
及王莽篡位，忌恶刘氏，以钱文有金刀，故改为货泉。
或以货泉字文为 白水真人 。
后望气者苏伯阿为王莽使至南阳，遥望见舂陵郭，唶曰： 气佳哉！
郁郁葱葱然。 及始起兵还舂陵，远望舍南，火光赫然属天，有顷不见。
初，道士西门君惠、李守等亦云刘秀当为天子。
其王者受命，信有符乎？
不然，何以能乘时龙而御天哉！
translation: 
Seeing the emperor's hard work, the crown prince took advantage of the opportunity to admonish him: "Your Majesty has the wisdom of Yu and Tang, but does not have the blessings of Huang and Lao to cultivate their souls. I hope you can maintain your love and be leisurely and contented." Guangwu said: I am willing to do this and do not feel tired. Although Emperor Guangwu accomplished great things, he was cautious and fearful of making mistakes. Therefore, he could be clear and prudent in political affairs, grasp the power and principles, judge the time and efforts, and make no mistakes.
Retire the meritorious military ministers and appoint civil servants, collect weapons, and release horses to Nanshan. Although the way of governing the country cannot be compared with that of the ancient sages, after all, it is still about fighting with force and emphasizing civilized governance!
Historians commented: Emperor Guangwu's father, Nandun Jun Liu Qin, began to serve as the order of Jiyang. On the sixth night of the twelfth lunar month in the first year of Jianping, Guangwu was born in the county house, and there was a red light in the room.
Liu Qin was very strange. He asked the divination person Wang Chang to predict good and bad luck.
Wang Chang avoided the people on his left and right and said, "The results of the divination are very auspicious and wonderful." This year, beautiful seedlings grew in the county, with nine ears per stem, so Guangwu was named Xiu.
The next year, the alchemist Xia Heliang wrote to Emperor Ai, saying that the Han family's national destiny had declined midway and that it should be reinstated.
So the name was changed to the first year of Taichu, and he was called "Emperor Chen Sheng and Liu Taiping", hoping to suppress the bad luck.
After Wang Mang usurped the throne, he hated the Liu family. Because the money had a gold knife on it, he changed the currency to currency.
Some people say that the word currency is like Baishui Zhenren.
Later, Suba, who had hoped that the clouds would predict good or bad luck, sent Wang Mang's envoy to Nanyang. He saw Chongling City from a distance and exclaimed: "The clouds are so beautiful and lush!"
When Guangwu just set off his troops and returned to Chongling, looking to the south of the residence, the fire was so bright that it disappeared for a long time.
In the past, Taoist priests Ximen Junhui, Li Shou and others also said that Liu Xiu would definitely become the emperor.
Maybe it's a sign of auspiciousness that the king has received his destiny, right?
Otherwise, how could we ride on a dragon and dominate the world in good time?


