Chunk 0: 
original: 
永嘉之乱，海内分崩，伶官乐器，皆没于刘、石。
江左初立宗庙，尚书下太常祭祀所用乐名。
太常贺循答云： 魏氏增损汉乐，以为一代之礼，未审大晋乐名所以为异。
遭离丧乱，旧典不存。
然此诸乐皆和之以钟律，文之以五声，咏之于歌辞，陈之于舞列。
宫悬在庭，琴瑟在堂，八音迭奏，雅乐并作，登歌下管，各有常咏，周人之旧也。
自汉氏以来，依仿此礼，自造新诗而已。
旧京荒废，今既散亡，音韵曲折，又无识者，则于今难以意言。
于时以无雅乐器及伶人，省太乐并鼓吹令。
是后颇得登歌，食举之乐，犹有未备。
太宁末，明帝又访阮孚等增益之。
咸和中，成帝乃复置太乐官，鸠集遗逸，而尚未有金石也。
庾亮为荆州，与谢尚修复雅乐，未具而亮薨。
庾翼、桓温专事军旅，乐器在库，遂至朽坏焉。
translation: 
The Yongjia Rebellion caused the country to fall apart, and all the Lingguan and musical instruments were destroyed by the rebellions of Liu Yuan and Shi Le.
When the ancestral temple was first established in Jiangdong, Shangshu ordered Taichang to submit the names of the music used for sacrifices.
Taichang He Xun replied: Wei added, deleted, and revised Han music, thus becoming the ritual music of the generation, but I don’t know why the name of Jin music is different from before.
After this disaster, the old scriptures no longer exist.
However, all these music can be harmonized with the rhythm of bells, expressed in text with five tones, added with lyrics for singing, and presented in the court with accompanying dance.
The palace is hung in front of the hall, the harp and harp are placed in the hall, the eight-tone musical instruments are played one after another, the sound of elegant music is ensembled, and the singing and singing are performed on the lower level. Each has its own music that is often chanted. These are all in line with the old system of the Zhou people.
Since the Mo Dynasty, I have just composed new words based on this music.
The old capital was deserted, and the music has long since been lost. The music has twists and turns, and no one can recognize it, so it is difficult to say clearly now.
At that time, due to the lack of elegant music instruments and actors, there was no Taiyue and drumming order.
Later, I collected a lot of songs about climbing, but the joy of eating and drinking is not complete yet.
In the last years of Taining, Emperor Ming ordered Ruan Fu and others to supplement it.
During the Xianhe period, Emperor Cheng reinstated the Taiyue Official to collect lost music, but it still lacked the music of gold and stone.
When Yu Liang was in charge of Jingzhou, he arranged elegant music with Xie Shang, but Yu Liang died before it was completed.
Yu Yi and Huan Wen were engaged in war, and their musical instruments were left idle in the storehouse, causing all of them to rot in the storehouse.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
及慕容亻隽平冉闵，兵戈之际，而鄴下乐人亦颇有来者。
永和十一年，谢尚镇寿阳，于是采拾乐人，以备太乐，并制石磬，雅乐始颇具。
面王猛平鄴，慕容氏所得乐声又入关右。
太元中，破苻坚，又获其乐工杨蜀等，闲习旧乐，于是四厢金石始备焉。
乃使曹毗、王珣等增造宗庙歌诗，然郊祀遂不设乐。
今列其词于后云。歌宣帝曹毗
于赫高祖，德协灵符。
应运拨乱，厘整天衢。
勋格宇宙，化动八区。
肃以典刑，陶以玄珠。
神石吐瑞，灵芝自敷。
肇基天命，道均唐虞。
歌景帝曹毗
景皇承运，纂隆洪绪。
皇罗重抗，天晖再举。
蠢矣二寇，扰我扬楚。
乃整元戎，以膏齐斧。
亹亹神算，赫赫王旅。
鲸鲵既平，功冠帝宇。
歌文帝曹毗
太祖齐圣，王猷诞融。
仁教四塞，天基累崇。
皇室多难，严清紫宫。
translation: 
When Murong Jun pacified Ran Min and the two sides were fighting, many of his followers came to seek refuge.
In the eleventh year of Yonghe's reign, Xie Shang guarded Shouyang, so he searched for music masters to serve as Taiyue Mansion, and made stone chimes, so that Yayue was slightly complete.
However, the music gained by Wang Mengzi Ye and Murong family flowed into Guanxi.
During the Taiyuan period, Fu Jian was defeated, and his musicians Yang Shu and others were captured. They became proficient in old music, and the four-chamber gold and stone music began to be complete.
So Cao Pi, Wang Shi and others were ordered to write more lyrics for the ancestral temple, but there was no longer any music for sacrifices in the surrounding suburbs.
Now I will list his words later. Song of Emperor Xuan: Cao Pi
Oh, my great ancestor, the Holy Virtue, Harmony and Spiritual Talisman.
Follow the fortunes of the times to bring order to the troubled times, and rectify the dynasty and stabilize the capital.
His achievements shook the world, and his education moved the eight districts.
Regular punishment is used to clean up the discipline, and Xuanzhu is used to teach the Dao.
The sacred stone emits auspiciousness, and the Ganoderma lucidum has its own knowledge.
Create a foundation in response to destiny, benevolent and virtuous, Qi Tang and Yu.
Emperor Ge Jing: Cao Pi
Emperor Jing inherited his fortune and continued his career to build up the emperor's foundation.
The imperial outline is revived, and the sky is lifted high again.
The two stupid thieves disturbed me and made me proud of Chu.
Put down the chaos, organize the troops and chariots, and kill the enemy with axes.
He uses his troops like divine calculations, and his military exploits inspire the king's brigade.
Now that the evil rebellion has been overthrown, his meritorious deeds are crowned in the sky.
Emperor Gewen: Cao Pi
Taizu Zhuang Jingsheng Ming, Wang Yuanyuan bright.
The benevolent religion was spread throughout the four vassals, and the emperor's foundation became more and more respected.
The fate of the royal family is in many difficulties, and Yan Wei clarifies the purple palace.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
威厉秋霜，惠过春风。
平蜀夷楚，以文以戎。
奄有参墟，声流无穷。
歌武帝曹毗
于穆武皇，允龚钦明。
应期登禅，龙飞紫庭。
百揆时序，听断以情。
殊域既宾，伪吴亦平。
晨流甘露，宵映朗星。
野有击壤，路垂颂声。
歌元帝曹毗
运屯百六，天罗解贯。
元皇勃兴，网笼江汉。
仰齐七政，俯平祸乱。
化若风行，泽犹雨散。
沦光更曜，金辉复焕。
德冠千载，蔚有余粲。
歌明帝曹毗
明明肃祖，阐弘帝祚。
英风夙发，清晖载路。
奸逆纵忒，罔式皇度。
躬振硃旗，遂豁天步。
宏猷允塞，高罗云布。
品物咸宁，洪基永固。
歌成帝曹毗
translation: 
The majesty is stronger than the autumn frost, and the grace is stronger than the spring breeze.
To pacify Shu and Chu, the latitude and longitude were divided into letters and armies.
There are three ruins of great merit, and their reputation is endless.
Emperor Gewu: Cao Pi
Mu Mu, I am Emperor Wu, and succeed Zu Qinming.
When he was due to ascend the throne, Long Fei was in the purple court.
Keep everything in order, listen to lawsuits and judge with emotion.
The foreign guests are both convinced, and the fake Wu is also wiped out.
The morning light flows with nectar, and the night snack reflects the bright stars.
There are songs of attacking the soil in the wild, and the sound of praising virtue is hanging on the road.
Emperor Ge Yuan: Cao Pi
Times are so difficult, and Skynet is trying to solve them.
The Prime Minister revitalized the imperial court, and the imperial palace fell.
When you look up, you can bring order to the seven political affairs; when you look down, you can calm down disasters and chaos.
Education spreads like the wind, and benefits spread like rain.
The blue waves are more radiant, and the golden glow is renewed.
The saintly virtue has been crowned for thousands of years, and the literary talent is still brilliant.
Emperor Ming of Song Dynasty: Cao Pi
He is wise and discerns Lu Dan, and he promotes the emperor's plans.
The handsome and heroic appearance comes early, and the clear and glorious journey is carried on.
The treacherous traitor rebels against my ministers and ignores our emperor's laws.
I bowed down and waved the red flag, and suddenly the sky was enlightened.
The great cause is abundant, and the sky is like clouds.
All things will be at peace, and Hong Ji will be forever solidified from now on.
Song to become emperor: Cao Pi


Chunk 3: 
original: 
于休显宗，道泽玄播。
式宣德音，暢物以和。
迈德蹈仁，匪礼不过。
敷以纯风，濯以清波。
连理映阜，鸣凤栖柯。
同规放勋，义盖山河。
歌康帝曹毗
康皇穆穆，仰嗣洪德。
为而不宰，雅音四塞。
闲邪以诚，镇物以默。
威静区宇，道宣邦国。
歌穆帝曹毗孝宗夙哲，休音久臧。
如彼晨离，耀景扶桑。
垂训华幄，流润八荒。
幽赞玄妙，爰该典章。
西平僭蜀，北静旧疆。
高猷远暢，朝有遗芳。
歌哀帝曹毗于穆哀皇，圣心虚远。
雅好玄古，大庭是践。
道尚无为，治存易简。
化若风行，时犹草偃。
虽曰登遐，徽音弥阐。
translation: 
Wow, it's so beautiful. I'm stuck in the topic. The Tao is as deep as the lake and spreads far away.
The laws and regulations are harmonious and the sound of virtue is proclaimed, and all things are prosperous and harmonious.
Be respectful and strive to be benevolent, and do not do anything inappropriate.
Establishing virtue is like spreading pure wind, and practicing benevolence is like turbid clear waves.
Lianli Renmu reflects the earth, and auspicious birds sing and phoenixes perch in the trees.
The teachings spread throughout the world to obey Emperor Yao, and the benevolence and righteousness spread throughout the mountains and rivers.
Song of Emperor Kang: Cao Pi
Mu Mu, I am Emperor Kang, and I look up to his heir, Hong De.
If you have something to do but don't kill it, your elegant sound will be spread all over the world.
To guard against evil, one must be sincere, and to control things with silence.
In the majestic and quiet room, Tao announces the state.
Emperor Gemu: Cao Pi Xiaozong was wise and wise, and his reputation was well-known.
Virtue is like that morning, when the sun shines on the hibiscus trees.
The training is in the Chinese tent and flows to all directions.
The profoundness praises the mystery, and the profoundness complies with the laws and regulations.
To the west is Puppet Shu, and to the north is Jingjiang.
The high aspirations reach far and wide, and the fragrance is sent from generation to generation.
Song Ai Tong: Cao Pi is great, I mourn the emperor, the most holy heart is far away.
If you are elegant and fond of ancient times, if you are practical, you will control agriculture.
Morality has not yet been done, and governance is easy and simple.
If education becomes popular, the people will follow like grass.
Although the emperor has died, his virtue is still more prominent.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
愔愔《云》《韶》，尽美尽善。
歌简文帝王珣
皇矣简文，于昭于天。
灵明若神，周淡如川。
冲应其来，实与其迁。
亹亹心化，日用不言。
易而有亲，简而可传。
观流弥远，求本逾玄。
歌孝武帝王珣天监有晋，钦哉烈宗。
同规文考，玄默允恭。
威而不猛，约而能通。
神钲一震，九域来同。
道积淮海，雅颂自东。
气陶醇露，化协时雍。
四时祠祀曹毗
肃肃清庙，巍巍圣功。
万国来宾，礼仪有容。
钟鼓振，金石熙。
宣兆祚，武开基。
神斯乐兮！
理管弦，有来斯和。
说功德，吐清歌。
神斯乐兮！
洋洋玄化，润被九壤。
民无不悦，道无不往。
礼有仪，乐有式。
translation: 
"Yun" and "Shao" are calm and sentimental, praising virtues and goodness.
Song Jian Emperor Wen: The king died
Emperor Jian Wendi, his light shines in the sky.
Lingming is like divine help, calm is like a great abyss.
The emptiness and tranquility should come as they come, and the reality will move with them.
Thoughts are flowing smoothly, but daily needs are never spoken.
The heart is easy but there is a kinship, the action is simple but it can be passed down.
The view of Liubu is far away, and the pursuit of solid foundation becomes more mysterious.
Song Xiaowu Emperor: The king died in heaven to supervise our Jin Dynasty, Qinzai Mu Mu Lie Zong.
The saints and virtues are all in the same literary examination, and they speak deeply and look respectfully.
It is powerful but not violent, and it is simple and harmonious.
The sound of the divine fire shook the sea, and everyone in the nine regions came to echo it.
The holy way accumulates in the Huaihai Sea, and the sound of elegant songs is restrained.
The charm is like pure dew, and the education is as harmonious as the wind.
Temple of the Four Seasons: Cao Pi
The temples of the ancestors are solemn and the sacred works are towering.
When the princes from all over the world come to court, they behave in an appropriate manner.
The sound of bells and drums, the sound of gold and stone.
Emperor Xuan Zhaozuo, Emperor Wu established the foundation.
The gods rejoice!
Manage my orchestra and make peace whenever you come.
Describe the merits and virtues, and sing clear songs.
The gods rejoice!
The joy of ocean metamorphosis, benevolence and virtue reaches all the earth.
There is no dissatisfaction among the people, and there is no lack of political support.
The etiquette is regular and the music is played in style.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
咏九功，永无极。
神斯乐兮！
汉时有《短箫铙歌》之乐，其曲有《硃鹭》、《思悲翁》、《艾如张》、《上之回》、《雍离》、《战城南》、《巫山高》、《上陵》、《将进酒》、《君马黄》、《芳树》、《有所思》、《雉子班》、《圣人出》、《上邪》、《临高台》、《远如期》、《石留》、《务成》、《玄云》、《黄爵行》《钓竿》等曲，列于鼓吹，多序战阵之事。
改《艾如张》为《获吕布》，言曹公东围临淮，擒吕布也。
改《上之回》为《克官渡》，言曹公与袁绍战，破之于官渡也。
改《雍离》为《旧邦》，言曹公胜袁绍于官渡，还谯收藏死亡士卒也。
改《战城南》为《定武功》，言曹公初破鄴，武功之定始乎此也。
改《巫山高》为《屠柳城》，言曹公越北塞，历白檀，破三郡乌桓于柳城也。
translation: 
Chant the Nine Gongs and enjoy the infinite forever.
The gods rejoice!
In the Han Dynasty, there was the music of "Short Xiao and Chong Song", whose songs include "Ibis", "Sibei Weng", "Ai Ru Zhang", "Back to Shang", "Yongli", "War in the South", "Wushan Gao", "Shangling", "Jiang Jinjiu", "Junma Huang", "Fangshu" , "Thinking", "Pheasant Class", "The Saint Comes Out", "Zhuangxie", "Lingaotai", "Far as Expected", "Shiliu", "Wucheng", "Xuanyun", "Huang Juexing", "Diaogan" and other songs are listed in the drum music, mostly describing the battle formation.
In the Wei Dynasty and Han Dynasty, the names of the twelve songs were changed, and Miao Xi composed the lyrics to describe the merits and virtues of Wei Dynasty Mo. Change "Ibis" to "Chu Zhiping" and describe the Wei Dynasty. Change "Si Bei Weng" to "Zhan Rongyang", describing Cao Gong. "Ai Ru Zhang" was changed to "Capture Lu Bu", which tells the story of Cao Gong's eastward siege of Linhuai and the capture of Lu Bu.
Change "Shangzhihui" to "Conquering Guandu", describing the battle between Cao Gong and Yuan Shao, and defeating Yuan Shao in Guandu.
"Yongli" was changed to "Jiubang", which tells that Duke Cao defeated Yuan Shao in Guandu and returned to Qiao to collect the dead soldiers.
"War in the South of the City" was changed to "Dingwu Gong", which tells that Cao Gong first defeated Ye, and martial arts began to be determined here.
"Wushan Gao" was changed to "Slaughter of Liucheng", which tells that Duke Cao crossed the northern frontier, passed through Baitan, and defeated Wuhuan from three counties in Liucheng.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
改《上陵》为《平南荆》，言曹公平荆州也。
改《将进酒》为《平关中》，言曹公征马超，定关中也。
改《有所思》为《应帝期》，言文帝以圣德受命，应运期也。
改《芳树》为《邕熙》，言魏氏临其国，君臣邕穆，庶绩咸熙也。
改《上邪》为《太和》，言明帝继体承统，太和改元，德泽流布也。
其余并同旧名。
是时吴亦使韦昭制十二曲名，以述功德受命。
改《硃鹭》为《炎精缺》，言汉室衰，孙坚奋迅猛志，念在匡救，王迹始乎此也。
改《思悲翁》为《汉之季》，言坚悼汉之微，痛董卓之乱，兴兵奋击，功盖海内也。
改《艾如张》为《摅武师》，言权卒父之业而征伐也。
改《上之回》为《乌林》，言魏武既破荆州，顺流东下，欲来争锋，权命将周瑜逆击之于乌林而破走也。
改《雍离》为《秋风》，言权悦以使人，人忘其死也。
改《战城南》为《克皖城》，言魏武志图并兼，而权亲征，破之于皖也。
改《巫山高》为《关背德》，言蜀将关羽背弃吴德，权引师浮江而擒之也。
改《上陵曲》为通荆州，言权与蜀交好齐盟，中有关羽自失之愆，终复初好也。
改《将进酒》为《章洪德》，言权章其大德，而远方来附也。
改《有所思》为《顺历数》，言权顺箓图之符，而建大号也。
translation: 
Changing "Shangling" to "Pingnan Jing" tells the story of Cao Ping's decision to conquer Jingzhou.
Change "Jian Jin Jiu" to "Ping Guanzhong", which tells the story of Duke Cao's campaign against Ma Chao and the pacification of Guanzhong.
Change "You Si" to "Ying Di Qi", which states that Emperor Wen proclaimed himself emperor with his holy virtues and responded to the fate of heaven.
"Fangshu" was changed to "Yongxi", which tells that the Wei family ruled the country, the emperor and his ministers were in harmony, and many political achievements were remarkable.
Changing "Shangxie" to "Taihe" states that Emperor Ming inherited the system and inherited the tradition, changed the Yuan Dynasty to Taihe, and spread virtue.
The rest have the same old name.
At this time, Cheng also ordered Wei Zhao to compose the names of twelve songs to describe his merits and virtues.
Changing "Ibis" to "Yan Jing Que", it tells the story of the decline of Moshi, Sun Jian's rapid ambition, and his intention to save the country. This is where the king's career begins.
Changing "Si Bei Weng" to "The Season of the Han Dynasty", it tells the story of Sun Jian mourning the decline of Momo, hating the chaos of Jianhuang, raising troops to attack, and making great achievements in the world.
"Ai Ru Zhang" was changed to "慅Martial Master", which tells the story of Sun Tat completing his father's business and going on a conquest.
Changing "Shangzhihui" to "Wulin", it tells the story that after Wei Wu conquered Jingzhou, he went eastward along the river and wanted to fight. Sun Quan ordered his general Zhou Yu to attack him in Wulin and defeated him, causing him to flee.
Changing "Yongli" to "Autumn Wind", it tells the story of Sun Quan employing people and making them happy, making them forget their death.
Change "War in the South of the City" to "Conquer Wancheng", stating that Wei Wu was determined to annex, but Sun Quan personally conquered and defeated Cao's army in Wancheng.
"Wushan Gao" was changed to "Guan Beide", which tells the story of Shu general Guan Yu who betrayed Wu's kindness, and Sun Quan sent troops to float across the river to capture Guan Yu.
"Shangling Song" was changed to "Tong Jingzhou", which tells the story of Sun Quan and Shu making good friends and forming an alliance. During this period, although Guan Yu committed his own sins, he finally restored the original good relationship.
Change "Jian Jin Jiu" to "Zhang Hong De", which tells that Sun Quan showed his great virtue and people from far away came to join him.
Changing "Yousi" to "Shunli Shu", it states that Sun Quan built the large hall in compliance with Pu Lu Fu's orders.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
改《芳树》为《承天命》，言其时主圣德践位，道化至盛也。
改《上邪曲》为《玄化》，言其时主修文武，则天而行，仁泽流洽，天下喜乐也。
其余亦用旧名不改。
及武帝受禅，乃令傅玄制为二十二篇，亦述以功德代魏。
改《硃鹭》为《灵之祥》，言宣帝之佐魏，犹虞舜之事尧，既有石瑞之徵，又能用武以诛孟达之逆命也。
改《思悲翁》为《宣受命》，言宣帝御诸葛亮，养威重，运神兵，亮震怖而死也。
改《艾如张》为《征辽东》，言宣帝陵大海之表，讨灭公孙氏而枭其首也。
改《上之回》为《宣辅政》，言宣帝圣道深远，拨乱反正，网罗文武之才，以定二仪之序也。
改《雍离》为《时运多难》，言宣帝致讨吴方，有征无战也。
改《战城南》为《景龙飞》，言景帝克明威教，赏顺夷逆，隆无疆，崇洪基也。
translation: 
Changing "Fangshu" to "Inheriting the Mandate of Heaven", it states that the monarch of Wu Kingdom at that time ascended the throne with holy virtues, and education was prevalent.
Changing "Shangxie Qu" to "Xuanhua", it states that at that time he majored in literature and martial arts, followed the heavens, benevolence spread and harmonious, and the world was happy.
The rest will still use their old names.
When Emperor Wu was ordered to ascend the throne, he ordered Fu Xuan to compose twenty-two poems, describing the merits of Jin in replacing Wei.
Changing "Ibis" to "Ling Zhixiang", it is said that Emperor Xuan assisted Wei, just like Yu and Shun served Yao. It not only had auspicious omens, but also used force to kill the disobedient Meng Da.
"Si Bei Weng" was changed to "Xuan Shou Ming", which tells the story of Emperor Xuan resisting Zhuge Liang, accumulating prestige, and transporting magical troops. Zhuge Liang died of fear.
"Ai Ru Zhang" was changed to "Conquering Liaodong", which tells the story of Emperor Xuan crossing the sea to destroy the Gongsun family and take its leader.
The "Shangzhihui" was changed to "Xuan Fu Zheng", which stated that Emperor Xuan had profound virtues, brought order to chaos, and established the order of heaven and earth by attracting civil and military talents.
"Yongli" was changed to "The Times Are Troubled", which tells the story of Emperor Xuan's expedition against the State of Wu, and whether there was an expedition or not.
Changing "Zhan Cheng Nan" to "Jing Long Fei", it tells the story that Emperor Jing showed his majesty, rewarded the good and the bad, prospered without borders, and made the emperor's foundation even taller.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
改《巫山高》为《平玉衡》，言景帝一万国之殊风，齐四海之乖心，礼贤养士，而纂洪业也。
改《上陵》为《文皇统百揆》，言文帝始统百揆，用人有序，以敷太平之化也。
改《将进酒》为《因时运》，言因时运变，圣谋潜施，解长蛇之交，离群桀之党，以武济文，以迈其德也。
改《有所思》为《惟庸蜀》，言文帝既平万乘之蜀，封建万国，复五等之爵也。
改《芳树》为《天序》，言圣皇应历受禅，弘济大化，用人各尽其才也。
改《上邪》为《大晋承运期》，言圣皇应箓受图，化象神明也。
改《君马黄》为《金灵运》，言圣皇践阼，致敬宗庙，而孝道行于天下也。
改《雉子班》为《于穆我皇》，言圣皇受禅，德合神明也。
改《圣人出》为《仲春振旅》，言大晋申文武之教，畋猎以时也。
改《临高台》为《夏苗田》，言大晋畋狩顺时，为苗除害也。
改《远如期》为《仲秋狝田》，言大晋虽有文德，不废武事，顺时以杀伐也。
改《石留》为《顺天道》，言仲冬大阅，用武修文，大晋之德配天也。
改《务成》为《唐尧》，言圣皇陟帝位，德化光四表也。
《玄云》依旧名，言圣皇用人，各尽其材也。
改《黄爵行》为《伯益》，言赤乌衔书，有周以兴，今圣皇受命，神雀来也。
《钓竿》依旧名，言圣皇德配尧舜，又有吕望之佐，济大功，致太平也。
其辞并列之于后云。灵之祥
灵之祥，石瑞章。
旌金德，出西方。
天降命，授宣皇。
应期运，时龙骧。
继大舜，佐陶唐。
赞武文，建帝纲。
孟氏叛，据南疆。
translation: 
Changing "Wushan Gao" to "Ping Yuheng", it tells the story of Emperor Jing unifying the different customs of all countries, unifying the estranged hearts of the world, respecting the virtuous and raising scholars, and inheriting the great legacy.
"Shangling" was changed to "Wenhuang Tongbaikui", which states that Emperor Wen first unified all political affairs, employed people in an orderly manner, and imparted the teaching of peace.
Change "Jian Jin Jiu" to "Because of Fortune", which states that according to the changes in fortune, he secretly implemented a sage plan to get rid of the long snake and disperse the group of rebels, use martial arts to support literature, and encourage people to practice their virtues.
"Yousi" was changed to "Weiyong Shu", which states that after Emperor Wen pacified Wancheng Shu, he enfeoffed the princes of all countries and restored the fifth-level titles.
"Fangshu" was changed to "Tianxu", which stated that the Holy Emperor should ascend to the throne according to the circumstances, greatly benefit the world's living beings, and employ people to make full use of their talents.
The "Shangxie" was changed to "The Carrying Period of the Jin Dynasty", which stated that the Holy Emperor should be accepted and taught, and his teachings should be like gods.
"Jun Ma Huang" was changed to "Jin Ling Yun", which tells that the Holy Emperor came to the throne and offered sacrifices to the ancestral temple, so that filial piety was practiced throughout the world.
Change "Pheasant Class" to "Yu Mu Wohuang", which states that the Holy Emperor received Zen and his virtues were in line with the gods.
The "Sage Comes Out" was changed to "Zhongchun Zhenlu", which tells the story of the Jin Dynasty's promotion of civil and military teachings and hunting in time.
"Lingaotai" was changed to "Xia Miao Tian", which tells the story of the Jin Dynasty's hunting and hunting in accordance with the season to eliminate damage to the seedlings.
Changing "Yuan Ru Schedule" to "Hedgefield in Mid-Autumn", it states that although the Jin Dynasty was civilized and virtuous, it did not abandon military affairs and carried out killings in accordance with the times.
"Shi Liu" was changed to "Shun Tian Dao", which tells the story of a military parade in mid-winter, using martial arts to cultivate literature, and selling great virtues to match the sky.
"Wucheng" was changed to "Tang Yao", which tells the story of the Holy Emperor ascending to the throne and his moral education enlightening the world.
"Xuanyun" still has the same name, describing how the Holy Emperor employs people and makes full use of their talents.
Changing "Huang Jue Xing" to "Bo Yi", it tells the story of Chiwu holding the book, the rise of the Zhou Dynasty, the Holy Emperor receiving the destiny, and the divine bird flying here.
"Diaogan" still has the same name, describing the virtues of the sage emperors who matched Yao and Shun, and how they were assisted by talented people like Lu Wang, who achieved great achievements and achieved peace.
Their words are listed below. "Ling Zhixiang"
The gods are auspicious and the stones are auspicious.
Jingyang Jinde comes from the West.
Heaven has given me the great destiny to grant me the title of Emperor Xuan.
In response to the fate of troubled times, he became a dragon of a generation.
Shengde succeeded Shun, just as Shun assisted Tao Tang.
Assisted Wei Wu and Wei Wen to establish the imperial code of dynasty.
The Meng family rebelled against orders and occupied our southern territory.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
追有扈，乱五常。
吴寇叛，蜀虏强。
交誓盟，连遐荒。
宣赫怒，奋鹰扬。
震乾威，曜电光。陵九天，陷石城。
枭逆命，拯有生。
万国安，四海宁。
宣受命
宣受命，应天机，风云时动神龙飞。
御葛亮，镇雍梁。
边境安，夷夏康。
务节事，勤定倾。
揽英雄，保持盈。
深穆穆，赫明明。
冲而泰，天之经。
养威重，运神兵。
亮乃震毙，天下安宁。
征辽东
征辽东，敌失据，威灵迈日域。公孙既授首，群逆破胆，咸震怖。
朔北响应，海表景附。
武功赫赫，德云布。
宣辅政
宣皇辅政，圣烈深。
拨乱反正，顺天心。
网罗文武才，慎厥所生。
translation: 
Following the ancient rules will confuse the five constant principles of human relations.
In the east, bandits and bandits were causing chaos, and the bandits in Youbao were rampant.
Make good friends and form alliances with each other, connecting the distant wilderness of the east and west.
Emperor Xuan was furious and soared like an eagle.
It was as powerful as thunder, as fast as lightning, soaring up to the sky and sinking into the stone city.
Defy the leader and save the common people.
All nations are at peace and the world is peaceful.
"Declaration of Order"
Emperor Xuan received a great order and followed the destiny. The wind and clouds change from time to time, and the dragon finally flies into the sky.
Resist Zhuge Liang and guard Yongliang.
The border will be stabilized, and the Yixia will be happy and healthy again.
Concentrate on your affairs and be in control, and be diligent and steady.
Recruit heroes, and the cause of conservatism is accomplished.
The majesty is profound and the light is bright.
Modesty leads to peace, this is the scripture of heaven.
Accumulate prestige on weekdays, and transport magic weapons at the right time.
If you are frightened and killed, the world will be at peace.
"Conquest of Liaodong"
During the expedition to Liaodong, the enemy troops lost their positions. His prestige is like that of a god in the east, and Gongsun Ni is ordered to be the leader. The group of Ni is frightened to the point of fear, and is frightened by the power and salt.
Shuobei rises in response, and the sea surface is like a shadow.
His martial arts are brilliant and his virtues are like clouds.
"Xuan Fu Zheng"
Although Emperor Xuan assisted in the administration, he was a virtuous and profound saint.
To bring order out of chaos, and to obey the will of the people.
Gang Luo was a talented man in both literature and military, and respected his parents.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
所生贤，遗教施。
安上治民，化风移。
肇创帝基，洪业垂。
于铄明明，时赫戏。
功济万世，定二仪。
定二仪，云行雨施，海外风驰。
时运多难
时运多难，道教痡。
天地变化，有盈虚。
蠢尔吴蛮，武视江湖。
我皇赫斯，致天诛。
有征无战，弭其图。
天威横被，廓东隅。
景龙飞
景龙飞，御天威。
聪鉴玄察，动与神明协机。
从之者显，逆之者灭夷。
文教敷，武功巍。
普被四海，万邦望风，莫不来绥。
圣德潜断，先天弗违。
弗违祥，享世永长。
猛以致宽，道化光。
赫明明，祚隆无疆。
帝绩惟期，有命既集，崇此洪基。
translation: 
The parents are talented and virtuous, and they rely on them to teach them.
Set it up to govern the people and educate the world.
The merit lies in creating the foundation of the emperor, and the great achievements will last forever.
The brilliance shines brightly and shines brightly all the time.
His merits can benefit all generations, and his deeds are enough to determine the heaven and earth.
The sky and the earth are fixed, the clouds move and the rain spreads to Bude, and it spreads far overseas like the wind.
"Tough Times"
Times are difficult and the teachings are obstructed.
There are many changes in the sky and the earth, there are excesses and deficiencies.
The stupid Wu Man is looking at me in the world.
My emperor was furious and ordered to be punished by heaven.
If there is conquest but no war, the chaos will be suppressed and destroyed.
The power of God spreads things and clears my corners.
"Jinglong Fei"
Jinglong ascends to control the power of heaven.
Intelligent insight into subtle details, moving the gods to connect the opportunities.
Those who follow it will become prosperous, and those who go against it will destroy the barbarians.
The etiquette and music education are laid out, and the martial arts are outstanding and majestic.
Wen De spreads all over the world, and all nations follow him, and all countries follow him.
Holy virtue is in line with God's will, and it is innate and cannot be violated by God.
If it is violated, it will be auspicious, enjoy the world and last forever.
The mightiness leads to generosity, the creation is great and light.
My emperor is illustrious, and his foundation is prosperous without borders.
There is a time limit for the emperor's career to be revealed. God's destiny has been gathered, and the emperor's foundation is respected.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
平玉衡
平玉衡，纠奸回。
万国殊风，四海乖。
礼贤养士，羁御英雄，思心齐。
纂戎洪业，崇皇阶。
品物咸亨，圣敬日跻。
聪鉴尽下情，明明综天机。
文皇统百揆
文皇统百揆，继天理万方。
武将镇四隅，英佐盈朝堂，谋言协秋兰，清风发其芳。
洪泽所渐润，砾石为珪璋。
大道侔五帝，盛德逾三王。
咸光大，上参天与地，至化无内外。
无内外，六合并康乂。
并康乂，遘兹嘉会。
在昔羲与农，大晋德斯迈。
镇征及诸州，为籓卫。
功济四海，洪烈流万世。
因时运
因时运，圣策施。
长蛇交解，群桀离。
势穷奔吴，兽骑厉。
translation: 
"Ping Yuheng"
Ji Tong balances the jade balance, Qi Zheng corrects the traitors and rebels.
All countries have different customs, and the four seas are full of contradictions.
He is benevolent, courteous and virtuous, and the sage controls the heroes. All people have the same thoughts.
Then he expanded Hongye and became the Chonghuang rank.
All the people enjoy peace, and the sages respect the rising sun.
Smart, wise and aware of the situation, careful observation of subtle secrets.
"Wen Huang Tong Bai Kui"
Emperor Wen’s administration was in charge of Bai Kui, and his successor Tian Ying was responsible for fortune-telling in all directions.
Military generals guard the four corners with mighty power, and wise ministers assist the court. Jiamou criticized Qiulan, and the government was clear and fragrant.
Rainwater gradually gathers into floods, and gravel is polished into Guizhang.
The great road governs the five emperors of Qi, and the great virtues spread to the three emperors.
Xianguang is great, the light is towering to the sky and the earth is the same, and the education is universal, both inside and outside.
There is no inside or outside, heaven, earth, and heaven are unified and peaceful.
And there was peace and order, and the civil and military affairs of the Manchu Dynasty met with great gatherings.
In the past, there were Fuxi and Shennong, and the great Jin Dynasty had great virtues and surpassed them.
Guard the conquests and the states, and the states become vassal guards.
His great achievements have benefited the whole world, and his glory will last forever.
"Because of Fortune"
Due to changes in fortunes, divine plans were revealed.
Strengthen the friendship between long snakes, and bravely separate from the group of Jie's party.
When the situation was poor, he rushed to Wu, and he used his horses and troops to fight.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
惟武进，审大计。
时迈其德，清一世。
惟庸蜀
惟庸蜀，僭号天一隅。
刘备逆帝命，禅亮承其余。
拥众数十万，窥隙乘我虚。
驿骑进羽檄，天下不遑居。
姜维屡寇边，陇上为荒芜。
文皇愍斯民，历世受罪辜。
外谟籓屏臣，内谟众士夫。
爪牙应指受，腹心献良图。
良图协成文，大兴百万军。
雷鼓震地起，猛势陵浮云。
逋虏畏天诛，面缚造垒门。
万里同风教，逆命称妾臣。
光建五等，纪纲天人。天序
天序，应历受禅，承灵祜。
御群龙，勒螭武。
弘济大化，英隽作辅。
translation: 
Only military force can advance, and the official will review the plan.
Encourage your virtues at all times, and enjoy a clear and bright life for the rest of your life.
"Weiyong Shu"
Shu, a mediocre country in ancient times, arrogantly proclaimed itself emperor in a corner of the sky.
Liu Bei was unruly and defied destiny, and Liu was afraid that Zhuge would take over the rest.
There are hundreds of thousands of troops on one side, watching for gaps to take advantage of our weakness.
The post horses are flying like feathers, and the people of the world are restless.
Jiang Wei repeatedly invaded our borders, and all the fields in Longshang were deserted.
Emperor Wen was compassionate and sympathetic to the people, and he endured many wars and suffered injustice.
The vassal guards and ministers planned outside and offered advice to the scholars inside.
The imperial guards and minions should accept it, and the close relatives and ministers should offer a good garden.
Jiamou's good plans and alliances were written down, and Emperor Wen raised a million troops.
The sound of thunder and drums shook the ground, as powerful as a tiger soaring over the floating clouds.
The Shu captives fled and were afraid of heaven's punishment, so they were captured at the camp gate without any help.
Wanli Qingkong shares the same wind religion, and the defiant owl Jie Xian becomes a minister.
The Marquis of Guangjian was divided into five levels, and the rules and regulations were in accordance with heaven and man. "The Order of Heaven"
Heaven is in order, and according to Heaven's orders, he ascends to the throne and receives blessings from his spirit.
The supreme master controls the dragons, and the power of heaven restrains the chaotic chi.
Promote the education of all living beings, and recruit talents to assist.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
明明统万机，赫赫镇四方，咎繇稷契之畴，协兰芳。
礼王臣，覆兆民。
化之如天与地，谁敢爱其身？
大晋承运期
大晋承运期，德隆圣皇。
时清晏，白日垂光。
应箓图，陟帝位，继天正玉衡。
化行象神明，至哉道隆虞与唐。元首敷洪化，百僚股肱并忠良。
时太康，隆隆赫赫，福祚盈无疆。
金灵运
金灵运，天符发。
圣徵见，参日月。
惟我皇，体神圣。
受魏禅，应天命。
皇之兴，灵有徵。
登大麓，御万乘。
皇之辅，若阚武。
爪牙奋，莫之御。
皇之佐，赞清化。
百事理，万邦贺。
神祗应，嘉瑞章。
恭享礼，荐先皇。
translation: 
He has a clear understanding of everything and controls everything, and his majestic appearance controls all directions. The virtuous ministers are all members of Gao Tao Ji Qi, and they assist Lan Fang in the Political Consultative Conference.
The holy virtues are courteous to the king and his ministers, and the benevolence brings good fortune to the people.
Education is spread like heaven and earth, who dares to forget his virtue and love himself?
"Dajin Shipping Period"
During the period of the Great Jin Dynasty, our emperor, the Holy Ming Delong, lived.
The sky is clear and cloudless at four o'clock, and the sky is clear and empty, and the sky is clear and clear.
Ying Pu was admitted and ascended to the throne, followed by the destiny of Zheng Yuheng.
The teachings and dissemination are like gods. The most important thing is Long Yu and Tang Dynasty. The head of state is Bu Honghua, and all the officials are loyal and good.
In the four seasons, Taikang is prosperous and prosperous, and God’s blessings are boundless.
"Golden Spirit"
The auspicious golden spirit brings auspiciousness, and the heavenly talisman brings auspiciousness.
In response to the order, the holy sign will be revealed, and the light will reach the sun and the moon.
But I, the Great Jin Emperor, was born with a sacred body.
Yingli accepted Wei Chan and inherited the great destiny.
Our emperor's business is prosperous, and the gods are showing signs.
Ji Zun ascended the throne and ordered to control thousands of vehicles.
My emperor's assistant ministers are all as powerful as tigers.
The minions advance together, and no one can resist.
My emperor's assistant, Xiangzan, plans to transform the Qing Dynasty.
If you manage everything day and night, all nations will praise you.
The gods of Chengtian responded and were ordered to receive the Jiarui chapter.
Respectfully enjoy the courtesy and offer sacrifices to the late emperor.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
乐时奏，磬管锵。
鼓殷殷，钟锽锽。
奠樽俎，实玉觞。
神歆飨，咸悦康。
宴孙子，祐无疆。
大孝蒸蒸，德教被万方。
于穆我皇
于穆我皇，盛德圣且明。
受禅君世，光济群生。
普天率土，莫不来庭。
颙颙六合内，望风仰泰清。
万国雍雍，兴颂声。
大化洽，地平而天成。
七政齐，玉衡惟平。
峨峨佐命，济济群英。
夙夜乾乾，万机是经。
虽治兴，匪荒宁。
谦道乐，冲不盈。
天地合德，日月同荣。
赫赫煌煌，曜幽冥。
三光克从，于显天，垂景星。
龙凤臻，甘露宵零。
肃神祗，祗上灵。
万物欣戴，自天效其成。
仲春振旅
translation: 
雅乐时时奏，磬管鸣锵锵。
The drums are beautiful and the bells are prosperous.
I sincerely pay homage to you, and the jade cup is full of worthy wine.
God comes to enjoy the feast, beauty comes and Xianyue is healthy.
May you bless your descendants and bless you forever.
Great filial piety flourishes, and moral education spreads everywhere.
"Yu Mu Wo Huang"
Hezai Mumu, my emperor, has great virtues and is holy and clear.
The Zen Lord came to the world, and his kindness and virtue helped all living beings.
The whole world leads the earth, and everyone comes to the court.
All the people in the world look up to each other and look up to Tai Qing.
All nations are in harmony with each other, singing and singing.
Yin and Yang are harmonious and harmonious, and heaven and earth are peaceful and peaceful.
During the Qingming Dynasty, Qi Qi was in charge of the seven political affairs, but during the Qing Dynasty, he was responsible for holding the Yuheng.
The assistant ministers are solemn and proud, and the court is filled with heroes.
Working day and night without stopping, managing all things day by day is this sutra.
Although there is peace and prosperity in the country, the world is not at peace.
The way of humility is bright, and the way of humility is humility but not fullness.
The great virtues unite the heaven and the earth, and the sun and the moon shine together.
His achievements are illustrious and glorious, shining brightly on the gods of the underworld.
The three rays of light in the sky are restrained, appearing in the sky, and the country with the Tao hangs down the scenery star.
The divine dragon and the phoenix arrive, and the nectar falls in the night.
Respect the gods solemnly and look up to the gods solemnly.
All things are in joy, and they work together during the day.
"Mid-Spring Journey"


Chunk 15: 
original: 
仲春振旅，大致人，武教于时日新。
师执提，工执鼓。坐作从，节有序。
盛矣允文允武！
搜田表祃，申法誓。
遂围禁，献社祭。
允以时，明国制。
文武并用，礼之经。
列车如战，大教明，古今谁能去兵？
大晋继天，济群生。
夏苗田
夏苗田，运将徂。
军国异容，文武殊。
乃命群吏，撰车徒，辩其号名，赞契书。
王军启八门，行同上帝居。
时路建大麾，云旗翳紫虚。
百官象其事，疾则疾，徐则徐。
回衡旋轸，罢阵弊车。
献禽享祀，蒸蒸配有虞。
惟大晋，德参两仪，化云敷。
仲秋狝田
translation: 
In the middle of spring, the army was revitalized and the martial arts was renewed day by day.
The commander-in-chief holds the drum, and the musicians hold the drum. They sit up and listen to the sound of the drum, rhythmically and orderly.
The practice of literature and martial arts is prosperous!
In spring hunting, the master went out to offer sacrifices, affirmed the laws and regulations, and swore an oath to the master.
It is forbidden to hunt together and sacrifice to the god of Houtu.
Hunting is based on time and the system of the country is clear.
The use of both civil and military forces is a common ritual.
The soldiers and chariots are like fighting, and the teachings are strict. Who can fight in ancient and modern times?
The Great Jin Dynasty will follow the destiny and help all living beings.
"Summer Miao Field"
Hunting in the seedling fields in summer, the weather is about to get hotter.
The military affairs and state affairs are different, but the culture, education and martial arts are different.
Then he ordered the officials to select the chariots and infantry, identify their names, and write a deed on them.
The soldiers of the royal army opened the eight gates, and my emperor patrolled like a god.
A large flag is set up on the road, and the big flag is like a cloud covering the sky.
All officials perform their duties competently, and they will be slow when they should be sick, and slow when they should be slow.
The chariots and horses turned around, and the chariots were exhausted and the army was tired.
It is dangerous to sacrifice birds to enjoy the food, and the hot steam will make you enjoy it.
But I, the Great Jin Dynasty, have virtues that match heaven and earth, and education that spreads like clouds.
"Mid-Autumn Midfield"


Chunk 16: 
original: 
仲秋狝田，金德常纲。
凉风清且厉，凝露结为霜。
白藏司辰，金隼时鹰扬。
鹰扬犹尚父，顺天以杀伐，春秋时序。
雷霆震威曜，进退由钲鼓。
致禽祀祊，羽毛之用充军府。
赫赫大晋德，芬烈陵三五。
敷化以文，虽安不废武。
光宅四海，永享天之祜。
顺天道
顺天道，握神契，三时示，讲武事。
冬大阅，鸣镯振鼓铎，旌旗象虹霓。
文制其中，武不穷武。
动军誓众，礼成而义举。
三驱以崇仁，进止不失其序。
兵卒练，将如阚武。
惟阚武，气陵青云。
解围三面，杀不殄群。
偃旌麾，班六军。
献享蒸，修典文。
translation: 
Walking in the hedgehog fields in mid-autumn, Ying Jinde thought of Chang Gang.
The autumn wind is clear and cool, and the dew turns into frost.
At the first dawn of autumn, the hawks soar in the clear sky.
The eagle flies like a noble father, killing and attacking in accordance with the sky, and the spring and autumn are in sequence.
Like thunder shaking the power of our army, soldiers advance and retreat listening to drums.
Birds and beasts were given to worship the emperor's spirit, and feathers were used to serve as military palaces.
The virtues of the illustrious Jin Dynasty are beyond three or five.
If education is transformed by literature, the country will not lose its force even though it is peaceful.
Brightness shines all over the world, and you will enjoy the blessings of heaven forever.
"Shun Tian Dao"
Follow the way of heaven and master the divine contract. The three seasons of spring, summer and autumn have been revealed, and martial arts will not harm the farming season.
In winter, big carts and carriages are marching, bangles are ringing, drums are vibrating, and flags are like rainbows.
Cultivation of literature and internal control, emphasizing martial arts but not resorting to force.
When moving an army, one must first swear an oath to fight, and then proceed with righteousness after the etiquette has been fulfilled.
Drive away the beasts again and again to uphold benevolence, and proceed and stop in an orderly manner without losing order.
The soldiers are well trained and the generals are as powerful as tigers.
But the tiger is so heroic that it reaches the sky.
Lift the siege on three sides and kill them without reducing their numbers.
When the army was exhausted, they raised their voices and raised their flags. After hunting, they returned to the Sixth Army of the Division.
Winter sacrifices are made to feed the gods, and rituals and music are used to cultivate literature.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
嘉大晋，德配天。
禄报功，爵俟贤。
飨燕乐，受兹百禄，寿万年。
唐尧
唐尧谘务成，谦谦德其兴。
积渐终光大，履霜致坚冰。
神明道自成，河海犹可凝。
舜禹统百揆，元凯以次升。
禅让应大历，睿圣世相承。
我皇陟帝位，平衡正准绳。
德化飞四表，祥气见其徵。
兴王坐俟旦，亡主恬自矜。
致远由近始，覆篑成山陵。
披图案先籍，有其证灵液。玄云
玄云起丘山，祥气万里会。
龙飞何蜿蜿，凤翔何翙翙。
昔在唐虞朝，时见青云际。
今亲游万国，流兴溢天外。
translation: 
I am a beautiful and kind person in Jin Dynasty, and my virtue is worthy of heaven and earth.
Fortune and wealth await reward for merit, and knighthood awaits talent.
Enjoy this peace and happiness, receive this hundred blessings, and enjoy longevity and happiness for thousands of years.
"Tang Yao"
When Yao of the Tang Dynasty consulted King Wusheng, he was humble and humble.
The accumulation of small things will eventually lead to greatness; only when you walk on frost will you know how to become solid ice.
The ways of gods follow nature, and the water of rivers and seas can still condense.
Shun Yu was the president of Bai Kui, and his meritorious service was promoted to Yuan Kai.
Being bowed to Zen, he obeyed the celestial calendar, and his wise sages were passed down from generation to generation.
I, the Emperor, have ascended the throne and will always hold the line of balance and rightness.
Dehua spreads all over the world, and the auspicious auspiciousness appears.
The directors of King Xing sit and wait for the day to come, while the deceased Lord is peaceful and self-respecting.
The desire to reach far begins from the near, and the power of overturning springs reaches the mountains and mausoleums.
After examining the historical records of the people in the past, there is evidence of their spiritual rain. "Xuanyun"
Xuan Yun warms up the hills and mountains, and the auspiciousness lingers thousands of miles away.
The shape of a flying dragon is so meandering, and the sound of a flying phoenix is ​​so graceful.
In the past, there were dynasties of Tang, Yao, Yu and Shun, and they appeared in the blue clouds from time to time.
Today, I have traveled to all countries, and my brilliance has spread across the sky.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
鹤鸣在后园，清音随风迈。
成汤隆显命，伊挚来如飞。
周文猎渭滨，遂载吕望归。
符合如影响，先天天不违。
辍耕综地纲，解褐衿天维。
元功配二王，芬馨世所稀。
我皇叙群才，洪烈何巍巍。
桓桓征四表，济济理万机。
神化感无方，髦才盈帝畿。
丕显惟昧旦，日新孔所谘。
茂哉明圣德，日月同光辉。
伯益
伯益佐舜禹，职掌山与川。
德侔十六相，思心入无间。
智理周万物，下知众鸟言。
黄雀应清化，翔习何翩翩。
和鸣栖庭树，徘徊云日间。
夏桀为无道，密网施山河。
酷祝振纤网，当柰黄雀何。
殷汤崇天德，去其三面罗。
translation: 
The phoenix and the crane are chirping in the back garden, and the clear and melodious sound is met by the wind.
Chengtang is prosperous and Delong shows his destiny, and wise ministers come like flying.
Moreover, Xuantian was hunting Ju Chengbin, met Lu Wang, and returned home.
The harmony between the monarch and his ministers is like influence, which is innate and does not violate the laws of nature.
Stop plowing to form the link between the earth and the sky.
The two kings of Emperor Zuoxing's industry and prime minister, whose virtues are rare in the world.
Our emperor is benevolent and virtuous, and he has gathered talented people, and his career is so great and majestic.
The mighty Huan Huan conquers the four forms, and he is solemn and dignified.
Enlightenment is like a god with no bounds, and wise ministers and talented people fill the emperor's territory.
When Pixian was thinking about the dawn, he said that he was in a new position.
Luxurious and prosperous, holy virtues are revealed, virtues are as bright as the sun and the moon.
"Bo Yi"
Boyi assisted Shun and Yu, and was in charge of mountains, forests, and rivers.
His virtues are all in his sixteenth aspect, which makes people think about him without interruption.
Wisdom knows all things, and wisdom knows the words of all birds.
The oriole should be pure and virtuous, so it can fly gracefully.
The harmonious singing is perched on the top of the tree in the garden, flying high and wandering in the clouds and daylight.
Xia Jie was cruel and immoral, and a dense network was set up in the mountains and rivers.
Cruel wishes for history to close the net, but the weak oriole will do nothing.
Yin Tang is kind and upholds heavenly virtues, and its three sides of compassion are gone.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
逍遥群飞来，鸣声乃复和。
硃雀作南宿，凤皇统羽群。
赤乌衔书至，天命瑞周文。
神雀今来游，为我受命君。
嘉祥致天和，膏泽隆青云。
兰风发芳气，盖世同其芬。
钓竿
钓竿何冉冉，甘饵芳且鲜。
临川运思心，微纶沈九泉。
太公宝此术，乃在《灵秘》篇。
机变随物移，精妙贯未然。
游鱼惊著钓，潜龙飞戾天。
戾天安所至？
抚翼翔太清。
太清一何异，两仪出浑成。
玉衡正三辰，造化赋群形。
退愿辅圣君，与神合其灵。
我君弘远略，天人不足并。
天人初并时，昧昧何芒芒。
日月有徵兆，文象兴二皇。
translation: 
The flying birds come and go in groups, and their whines are as peaceful as before.
The redbirds fly in the south palace, and the phoenix leads the flock of feathers.
Chi Wu flew with the book in his hand, indicating that Zhou Wen's destiny was auspicious.
Today the divine bird is flying here to swim, flying to be my appointed king.
Good omens and auspiciousness bring peace to the sky, and virtues bring blessings to all people.
The wind of orchid and hibiscus is fragrant, and the whole world shares its fragrance.
"fishing rod"
The fishing rod is so soft, the bait is sweet, fragrant and fresh.
Fishing in Linchuan transports the mind, and the thin fishing line is tied and sunk in Jiuquan.
Weibin Taigong treasured this technique, which is in the chapter "Ling Mi".
Move from the object to adapt to changes, and use your heart to understand the situation before it happens.
The swimming fish scatter in fright and touch the fishing hook, while the hidden dragon finally flies into the sky.
Where does the dragon fly in the sky?
The wings beat and the wind soared too clearly.
What's the difference between Taiqing and Yi? The two instruments begin to separate into Huncheng.
Xuanji jade is at the right three-star mark, and the heaven and earth are endowed with various shapes.
Xun Rang is willing to assist the Holy King, advance and retreat in harmony with the spirit of God.
I, the king of the Jin Dynasty, have a great and far-reaching strategy, and heaven and man are not enough to be named together.
When the celestial phenomena and human affairs first merged, there was so much chaos and confusion.
There are signs in human affairs, the sun and the moon, and the laws of heaven and literature bring prosperity to the two emperors.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
蚩尤乱生灵，黄帝用兵征万方。
逮夏禹而德衰，三代不及虞与唐。
我皇盛德配尧舜，受禅即阼享天祥。
率土蒙祐，靡不肃，庶事康。
庶事康，穆穆明明。
荷百禄，保无极，永太平。
鼙舞，未详所起，然汉代已施于燕享矣。
傅毅、张衡所赋，皆其事也。
旧曲有五篇，一、《关东有贤女》，二、《章和二年中》，三、《乐久长》，四、《四方皇》，五、《殿前生桂树》，其辞并亡。
曹植《鼙舞诗序》云： 故汉灵帝西园鼓吹有李坚者，能鼙舞，遭世荒乱，坚播越关西，随将军段煨。
先帝闻其旧伎，下书召坚。
坚年逾七十，中间废而不为，又古曲甚多谬误，异代之文，未必相袭，故依前曲作新歌五篇。
及泰始中，又制其辞焉。
其舞故常二八，桓玄将僭位，尚书殿中郎袁明子启增满八佾。
泰始中歌辞今列之后云。
鼙舞歌诗五篇
洪业篇当魏曲《明明魏皇帝》，古曲《关东有贤女》。
宣文创洪业，盛德在泰始。
圣皇应灵符，受命君四海。
万国何所乐？
translation: 
Chi You massacred all living beings, and Huang Di used his troops to conquer thousands of people.
When Xia Yu's saintliness declined, the three generations were not as good as Yu and Tang.
Our emperor is a great virtuous companion to Yao and Shun. He ascended the throne by Zen and enjoyed the auspiciousness of heaven.
The shore of the land is blessed by God, everyone is solemn, and everyone is in good health.
All is well, Mu Mu is obviously our emperor.
Inherit Bailu, protect boundless borders, and live in peace and prosperity forever.
I don’t know when it started, but it has been used for feasting and enjoying rituals.
Only the poems written by Qian and Tuiman have mentioned this matter.
There are five old songs in total, 1. "There is a Wise Woman in Guandong", 2. "In the Second Year of Zhanghe", 3. "The Music Will Last for a Long Time", 4. "Emperor from Four Directions", and 5. "The Osmanthus Tree Grows in Front of the Palace", all of which have been lost.
Cao Zhi's "Preface to the Poems on the Chao Dance" says: In the past, there was a famous Li Jian in the Western Garden of Emperor Mo Ling who was good at playing music and could dance the Chao dance. However, when the world was in chaos, Li Jian went into exile in Guanxi and followed the general Duan Xuan.
The late emperor heard that he had old skills and sent a letter to summon Li Jian.
Li Jian is over seventy years old, and has been neglected for a long time. In addition, there are many errors in the ancient songs, and the texts of different generations may not be the same. Therefore, he wrote five new songs based on the previous songs.
At the beginning of Taishi, he made another speech.
In the past, the dance was performed with two yi, but when Huan Xuan wanted to usurp the throne, Yuan Mingzi, the minister of the Shangshu Palace, played the Ming Dynasty and the emperor increased the number to eight yi.
The poems from Taishi are now listed below.
Five poems about the dance:
"Hong Ye Pian" is equivalent to the Wei song "Ming Ming Emperor Wei" and the ancient song "There is a Wise Woman in Guandong".
Xuanwen made great achievements with great difficulty, and the great virtues of the Jin Dynasty began in Tai.
The illustrious Holy Emperor should bear the talisman, and should be ordered by heaven to rule the world.
What joy can all beings in all nations enjoy?


Chunk 21: 
original: 
上有明天子。
唐尧禅帝位，虞舜惟恭己。
恭己正南面，道化与时移。
大赦荡萌渐，文教被黄支。
象天则地，体无为。
聪明配日月，神圣参两仪。
虽有三凶类，静言无所施。
象天则地，体无为。
稷契并佐命，伊吕升王臣。
兰芷登朝肆，下无失宿人。
声发响自应，表立景来附。
哮阚顺羁制，潜龙升天路。
备物立成器，变通极其数。
百事以时叙，万机有常度。
训之以克让，纳之以忠恕。
群下仰清风，海外同欢慕。
象天则地，化云布。
昔日贵雕饰，今尚俭与素。
昔日多纤介，今去情与故。
象天则地，化云布。
济济大朝士，夙夜综万机。
万机无废理，明明降训谘。
臣譬列星景，君配朝日辉。
事业并通济，功烈何巍巍。
translation: 
This is because there is a Son of Tomorrow.
When Yao of the Tang Dynasty reached the throne of Dechan, Yu and Shun were respectful but respectful to themselves.
Gongji finally sat facing south, and his virtue and morality transformed into public opinion.
The amnesty began to purge virtues, and culture and education spread far and wide to Huangzhi.
Like the sky, the earth is governed by doing nothing.
Smart and discerning, one can observe the sun and the moon, and sages and gods can observe both rituals.
Although there are three evil types that are contrary to fate, there is nothing you can do about them if you are still and think about them.
Like the sky, the earth is governed by doing nothing.
Hou Ji and Qi both served as ministers, and Yi Yin Lu hoped to be promoted to a royal minister.
Orchids and herbs are listed in the dynasty, and no one is missing in the world at night.
The voice of the Holy Lord echoes and responds, and the shadow of the pole comes and follows.
The roaring tiger obeys the restraint, and the hidden dragon has its own way to ascend to heaven.
The things you prepare can be used immediately, and you can be very flexible in your actions.
Everything is done in a timely manner, and even though everything changes, there is stability.
The officials train him to show restraint and give in, and the officials accept him to show loyalty and forgiveness.
Everyone in the group looks up to the breeze and admires it from all over the world.
Like the sky, the earth is like the clouds of enlightenment.
In the past, emperors were expensive in carvings and ornaments, but today the holy emperors are frugal.
In the past, there were many entanglements, but today there are no mercy allusions.
Like the sky, the earth is like the clouds of enlightenment.
There are many scholars in Kyoto, working hard day and night to manage everything.
There is no waste in everything, and you can clearly understand the details and give advice.
The ministers are like stars, and the sage is like the sun.
All great undertakings are unified, and the merits are so high and majestic.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
五帝继三皇，三皇世所归。
圣德应期运，天天地不能违。
仰之弥已高，犹天不可阶。
将复御龙氏，凤皇在庭栖。
天命篇当魏曲《太和有圣帝》，古曲《章和二年中》。
圣祖受天命，应期辅魏皇。
入则综万机，出则征四方。
朝廷无遗理，方表宁且康。
道隆舜臣尧，积德逾太王。
孟度阻穷险，造乱天一隅。
神兵出不意，奉命致天诛。
赦善罚有罪，元恶宗为虚。
威风震劲蜀，武烈慑强吴。
诸葛不知命，肆逆乱天常。
拥徒十余万，数来寇边疆。
我皇迈神武，执钺镇雍凉。
亮乃畏天威，未战先仆僵。
translation: 
The Five Emperors succeeded the Three Emperors with virtue, and the Three Emperors were the descendants of the Saints with virtue.
The Holy Deeds should be in accordance with the destiny, and the destiny of heaven and earth cannot be violated.
The higher you look up, the taller it becomes. It is as high as the sky and cannot be scaled.
When he wants to restore the Yulong family, the phoenix sings harmoniously in the courtyard.
"The Destiny Pian" is equivalent to the tomb song "Taihe Has the Holy Emperor" and the ancient song "In the Second Year of Zhanghe".
The Holy Ancestor Xuanhuang was appointed by Heaven, and Chengtian should assist Emperor Wei as scheduled.
When you enter, you will comprehensively manage all political affairs, and when you leave, you will conquer all directions.
Everything in the imperial court is in good order, and everything in the area is peaceful and healthy.
Daolong was like Shun and Yao, his benevolence and virtue surpassed that of the king.
Meng Du relied on danger to stop the king's master, and rebelled against his orders and caused chaos in a corner of the sky.
The divine soldiers unexpectedly descended from heaven, and were ordered to punish the rebels and cause them to be punished by heaven.
Forgiveness does not punish guilt, and the culprit's clan becomes empty.
The majesty shocked Shu in the west, and the fierce force overcame Wu in the east.
Zhuge didn't know the destiny of heaven, so he wreaked havoc and rebelled against the destiny.
We have more than 100,000 troops on one side, and they frequently invade our borders.
My emperor is so powerful that he holds a cymbal to guard Yongliang.
Zhuge is afraid of my heavenly power, and is afraid that he will freeze before he fights.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
盈虚自然运，时变故多艰。
东征陵海表，万里克朝鲜。
受遗齐七政，曹爽又滔天。
群凶受诛殛，百禄咸来臻。
黄华应福始，王凌为祸先。
景皇篇当魏曲《魏历长》，古曲《乐久长》。
景皇帝，聪明命世生，盛德参天地。
帝王道大，创基既已难，继世亦未易。
外则夏侯玄，内则张与李，三凶构逆，乱帝纪。
顺天行诛，穷其奸宄。
边将御其渐，潜谋不得起。
罪人咸伏辜，威风振万里。
平衡综万机，万机无不理。
召陵桓不君，内外何纷纷。
众小便成群，蒙昧恣心，治乱不分。
睿圣独断，济武常以文。
顺天惟废立，扫霓披浮云。
云霓既已辟，清和未几间，羽檄首尾至，变起东南籓。
俭钦为长蛇，外则凭吴蛮。
万国纷骚扰，戚戚天下惧不安。
translation: 
Gains and losses are natural luck, and things are changing and difficult.
Cambodia conquered Liaodong Linghai and killed the rebel Gongsun Yuan.
The Emperor of Wei ordered Qi Qizheng, and Cao Shuang's power became overwhelming again.
The group of villains who rebelled against their fate were finally punished, and God sent Bai Luxian to come.
When chrysanthemums have yellow flowers, they bring good fortune; when Wang Jun makes trouble, they bring disaster first.
"Jinghuang Pian" is equivalent to the long history of Wei music, and the music of ancient music is long-lasting.
The Holy Ancestor Jing Emperor was famous for his wisdom and his sage and benevolence.
The path of an emperor is indeed grand. It is difficult to establish a foundation, but it is also not easy to carry it forward.
At that time, there was Xia Houxuan outside, and there were rebel ministers Zhang and Li inside. The three evils were the same internally and externally, and they disrupted our emperor's order.
My emperor will obey the will of heaven and carry out an attack to eliminate the three evil traitors.
The border guards will guard against the growing tail, and they will not be able to afford evil intentions.
A guilty person is guilty of his crime, and his majesty spreads thousands of miles.
Always maintain balance, there are all opportunities, and all opportunities are ignored.
If Zhaoling loses its way, the emperor will not be the king, and there will be internal and external troubles.
The crowds of urinals formed a group, and the ignorant monarch showed off his will, and did not distinguish what it means to control chaos.
My emperor, Rui Sage, makes decisions alone, and to support military affairs, we still need scriptures.
Comply with the destiny of the people, and clear away the rainbow and floating clouds.
The clouds were gone and the sky was open, and the Qingming Festival was not long. The feathers came one after another, and trouble broke out in the Southeast Domain.
Jian Qin is a snake that grows in reverse, and he who has external support is Wu Man.
The nations are in turmoil and chaos, and the world is in fear and unrest.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
神武御六军，我皇执钺征。
俭钦起寿春，前锋据项城。
出其不意，并纵奇兵。
奇兵诚难御，庙胜实难支。
两军不期遇，敌退计无施。
豹骑惟武进，大战沙阳陂。
钦乃亡魂走，奔虏若云披。
天因赦有罪，东土放鲸鲵。
大晋篇当魏曲《天生蒸民》，古曲《四方皇》。
赫赫大晋，于穆文王。
荡荡巍巍，道迈陶唐。
世称三皇五帝，及今重其光。
九德克明，文既显，武又彰。
思弘六合，兼济万方。
内举元凯，朝政以纲。
外简武臣，时惟鹰扬。
靡顺不怀，逆命斯亡。
仁配春日，威逾秋霜。
济济多士，同兹兰芳。
唐虞至治，四凶滔天。
致讨俭钦，罔不肃虔。
化感海内，海外来宾。
献其声乐，并称妾臣。
translation: 
Mighty as a god, he controls the six armies. My emperor personally wields the ax and iron to conquer.
The Jianqin rebellion broke out in Shouchun, and the vanguard had already reached Xiangcheng.
The divine soldiers descended from the sky unexpectedly, and our emperor’s divine weapons commanded extraordinary forces.
The strange soldiers are as difficult to control as the gods, and the temple is difficult to win in reality.
The two armies encountered an unexpected encounter, and the enemy retreated without any plan.
Like a leopard, its chariot and its cavalry advance forward fiercely, fighting the enemy at Shayang Pi.
He ran away in despair, and the prisoners fled like clouds.
Heaven's grace forgives the guilty, but restrains the earth element and acts like a whale salamander.
"Da Jin Pian" is comparable to the Wei song "Tian Sheng Ming Min" and the ancient song "Sifang Huang".
The illustrious Jin Dynasty, the holy King Wen.
The virtues are soaring and majestic, and their path transcends the Tao and Tang dynasties.
Known to the world as the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors, their glory is restored today.
Practice nine virtues. Tao's literary skills are both clear and his military strategy is outstanding.
The blessings are great in the world and benefit all living beings.
The internal minister Yuan Kai is elected, and the government is clear and orderly.
Outside, military ministers are selected, and sometimes they are mighty and eagle-like.
Those who follow the destiny will be safe, and those who disobey will inevitably perish.
Kindness and virtue are equal to the spring sun, and majesty is better than the autumn frost.
The imperial court was busy with toasts, and the flowers of grass and orchids were fragrant.
During the reign of Yao, Yu and Shun in the Tang Dynasty, there were still four terrible evils.
When conquering thrifty thieves, everyone must be respectful and pious.
The enlightenment has touched the hearts of the people at home and abroad.
He further contributed his vocal music, and everyone bowed to him.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
西蜀猾夏，僭号方域。
命将致讨，委国稽服。
吴人放命，冯海阻江。
飞书告喻，响应来同。
先王建万国，九服为籓卫。
亡秦坏诸侯，序祚不二世。
历代不能复，忽逾五百岁。
我皇迈圣德，应期创典制。
分土五等，籓国正封界。
莘莘文武佐，千秋遘嘉会。
洪泽溢区内，仁风翔海外。
明君篇当魏曲《为君既不易》，古曲《殿前生桂树》。
明君御四海，听鉴尽物情。
顾望有谴罚，谒忠身必荣。
兰芷出荒野，万里升紫庭。
茨草秽堂阶，扫截不得生。
能否莫相蒙，百官正其名。
恭己慎有为，有为无不成。
translation: 
Western Shu disturbed our country and arrogated the title of emperor of Fangyu.
He ordered the general to lead his troops to conquer, abandon the country, and surrender.
The people of Wu rebelled against their orders and relied on the sea to block the river.
My emperor sent a letter to tell me, and the people of Wu responded and came to surrender.
The former kings divided the feudal kingdoms into ten thousand kingdoms, and the nine lands became vassals and guards.
Qinxing prefectures and counties broke the feudal system, and the first emperor succeeded Zuobu II.
He was unable to return to the feudal lords in the past dynasties, and suddenly he was over 500 years old.
Our emperor strives to practice holy virtues, and establishes the system of ennobling marquises in due course.
The land was divided into five ranks, and the boundaries of the vassal states were sealed.
With numerous civil and military officials assisting in great political affairs, this is the first time in a thousand years that we will encounter this grand event.
Grace is like a flood flowing over the area, benevolence is like a gentle breeze flying overseas.
"Ming Jun Pian" is comparable to the Wei song "It's Not Easy to Be a King" and the ancient song "The Osmanthus Tree Grows in Front of the Palace".
The Holy Emperor and his Mingjun govern the world, and he obeys warnings and takes care of all things.
There will be condemnation if you linger and watch, but you will be honored if you exhaust your wisdom and loyalty.
Orchid originates from the wilderness and rises to the purple court thousands of miles away.
The thorns and thorns are filthy on the front steps of the hall. If they are swept away, no growth will occur.
There is no misunderstanding between what is possible and what is not, and the duties of the Hundred Palaces are justified.
Be solemn and respectful to yourself, be careful about what you have done, and everything you have done will be accomplished.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
暗君不自信，群下执异端。
正直罗浸润，奸臣夺其权。
虽欲尽忠诚，结舌不敢言。
结舌亦何惮，尽忠为身患。
清流岂不洁，飞尘浊其源。
岐路令人迷，未远胜不还。
忠臣立君朝，正色不顾身。
邪正不并存，譬若胡与秦。
胡秦有合时，邪正各异津。
忠臣遇明君，乾乾惟日新。
群目统在纲，众星共北辰。
设令遭暗主，斥退为凡人。
虽薄供时用，白茅犹为珍。
冰霜昼夜结，兰桂摧为薪。
邪臣多端变，用心何委曲。
便辟顺情指，动随君所欲。
偷安乐目前，不问清与浊。
积伪罔时主，养交以持禄。
言行恆相违，难餍甚谿谷。
昧死射乾没，觉露则灭族。
translation: 
The dark king is fatuous and unconfident, and his subordinates all practice heresy.
Upright people are slandered, and treacherous people seize their power.
Although Jingchen wanted to be loyal, he was speechless and dared not speak.
There is nothing to be afraid of when you are speechless and speechless, and you are still loyal to yourself.
Isn't it impure for a clear and clear stream to be polluted by flying dust for no reason?
Traveling on the wrong road can lead to confusion, but the wrong road is not far away.
A loyal minister fearlessly establishes his dynasty with an upright look on his face, regardless of his own safety.
Treachery, evil and uprightness do not coexist, just like the Hulu and the Qin Dynasty.
When Hu and Qin were still in harmony, treachery, evil and uprightness had their own differences.
Today, a loyal minister meets a wise king, and his work will never stop.
Although the outline is closely integrated in the outline, it is like the stars constituting the North Star.
Suppose the loyal ministers are attacked by the secret master and are dismissed as mortals for no reason.
Although Cordyceps is thin for seasonal use, Imperata is still a treasure in the wilderness.
The rain and dew condense into frost day and night, and the orchids and osmanthus trees are destroyed into firewood.
Evil ministers are fickle and have many tricks, so what's wrong with their intentions?
Flattery means being submissive to one's feelings, and one will always do as one pleases.
Just keep an eye on peace and happiness, regardless of whether politics is clean or dirty.
Accumulating hypocrisy and deceiving the current leader, forming cliques for personal gain to maintain salary.
Words and deeds are inconsistent and inconsistent, and greed is a valley.
If you are lucky enough to make a profit, if the incident is revealed, your family will be exterminated.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
拂舞，出自江左。
旧云吴舞，检其歌，非吴辞也。
亦陈于殿庭。
杨泓序云： 自到江南见《白符舞》，或言《白凫鸠舞》，云有此来数十年矣。
察其辞旨，乃是吴人患孙皓虐政，思属晋也。
今列之于后云。
拂舞歌诗五篇
白鸠篇
翩翩白鸠，再飞再鸣。
怀我君德，来集君庭。
白雀呈瑞，素羽明鲜。
翔庭舞翼，以应仁乾。
皎皎鸣鸠，或丹或黄。
乐我君惠，振羽来翔。
东壁余光，鱼在江湖。
惠而不费，敬我微躯。
策我良驷，习我驱驰。
与君周旋，乐道忘饥。
我心虚静，我志沾濡。
弹琴鼓瑟，聊以自娱。
陵云登台，浮游太清。
攀龙附凤，自望身轻。
济济篇
暢暢飞舞气流芳，追念三五大绮黄。
translation: 
Whisk dance, from silk bundles.
The old name is Chengwu. Check its songs and poems, not the county poems.
It is also displayed in the palace.
The preface to the sculpture says: I have seen the "White Fu Dance", or "White Bright Dove Dance" since I came to southern Liaoning. It is said that this dance has been around for decades.
Looking at the purpose of his words, it is to say that the star people are suffering from the tyranny of the wall, and their thoughts belong to Zhi.
Now I will list his words below.
Five Fuwu Songs and Poems:
"White Dove"
The graceful white dove is flying and singing.
Embracing my king's virtue, I flew here to gather in your court.
The white bird looks auspicious, but its plain feathers are so bright.
I dance my wings and soar in the king's court, in response to my benevolent king.
The doves are singing brightly, and they may be light red or yellow.
I am delighted with your kindness, and my feathers fly thousands of miles away.
There is a lingering light on the wall, and the fish enjoy the light in the rivers and lakes.
I show you favors without any expense, and I respect you with my small body.
Drive my good horse, practice my galloping.
I would like to follow you around, enjoy your virtue and forget my hunger.
My heart is empty and quiet, and I am willing to be touched by you.
Play my harp, drums and harp, just to entertain myself for the time being.
When the clouds come and go, I will go on stage. I would like to float in Taiqing.
Clinging to the dragon and clinging to the phoenix, I wish my body would be light.
"Ji Ji Chapter"
Flying and dancing freely, the air flow is fragrant, and I remember the four bright yellow flowers.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
去失有，时可行，去来时同此未央。
时冉冉，近桑榆，但当饮酒为欢娱。
衰老逝，有何期，多忧耿耿内怀思，深池旷，鱼独希，愿得黄浦众所依。
恩感人，世无比，悲歌且舞无极已。
独禄篇
独独禄禄，水深泥浊。
泥浊尚可，水深杀我。
雍雍双雁，游戏田畔。
我欲射雁，念子孤散。
翩翩浮萍，得风摇轻。
我心何合，与之同并。
空床低帏，谁知无人。
夜衣锦绣，谁别伪真。
刀鸣鞘中，倚床无施。
父冤不报，欲活何为。
猛兽班班，游戏山间。
兽欲啮人，不避豪贤。
碣石篇
东临碣石，以观沧海。
水何淡淡，山岛竦峙。
树木丛生，百草丰茂。
秋风萧瑟，洪波涌起。
日月之行，若出其中。
星汉灿烂，若出其里。
translation: 
Get rid of the gains and losses, it will be feasible when it comes, but it will be the same when it goes away.
Time flies, and the years are approaching, but drinking is a joy.
As time passes by, how long will it last? I will be filled with worries and longings. The deep pool is vast, and the swimming fish are rare. I hope everyone in Huangpu can rely on it.
His kindness is touching and unparalleled, his tragic songs and dances are timeless.
"Dulu Chapter"
The water is deep and the mud is dirty.
The mud is still okay, but the deep water will kill me.
Yongyong and Le Shuangyan are playing games by my field.
I want to bend my bow and shoot geese, but I miss my son who has lost his relatives and is alone.
The duckweeds on the water are gently swaying in the wind.
Whoever I want to be with is the same as that duckweed.
The curtains were hung on the empty bed, but no one knew there was anyone inside.
Wearing embroidered clothes at night will help you identify the fake ones.
The sword is not flat and cries in the scabbard, but the body is leaning on the bed and there is nothing to do.
What do you want to do in this world if you can't avenge your own father?
The beasts can be seen everywhere, and the game is in the mountains.
Wild beasts want to eat people, regardless of the virtuous or the virtuous.
"Jieshi Chapter"
Shuzheng came to Jieshi and was able to view the sea.
How vast and light the sea is, how majestic the mountains and islands are.
The island is covered with trees and lush grass.
The autumn wind is bleak, the trees are shaking down, and the sea is raging.
The movement of the sun and moon in the sky is reflected in it.
The stars in the river are shining brightly, seemingly out of its surroundings.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
幸甚至哉，歌以咏志。
《观沧海》
孟冬十月，北风徘徊。
天气肃清，繁霜霏霏。
鹍鸡晨鸣，雁过南飞。
鸷鸟潜藏，熊罴窟栖。
耨鑮停置，农收积场。
逆旅整设，以通贾商。
幸甚至哉，歌以咏志。
《冬十月》
乡土不同，河朔隆塞。
流澌浮漂，舟船行难。
锥不之地，丰籁深奥。
水竭不流，冰坚可蹈。
士隐者贫，勇侠轻非。
心常叹怨，戚戚多悲。
幸甚至哉，歌以咏志。
《土不同》
神龟虽寿，犹有竟时。
腾蛇乘雾，终为土灰。
骥老伏枥，志在千里。
烈士暮年，壮心不已。
盈缩之期，不但在天。
养怡之福，可得永年。
幸甚至哉，歌以咏志。
《龟虽寿》
translation: 
Fortunately, I even wrote a song to express my ambition.
"Viewing the Sea"
It was the tenth month of Mengdong, and the north wind was blowing slowly.
The weather is solemn and refreshing, with heavy frost and heavy frost.
The gulls and chickens chirped in the morning, and the wild geese soared southward.
Frightened birds and raptors lurk, and bears have already taken shelter in their caves.
Farm tools such as hoes and hoes are idle, and crops are accumulated in the field.
The guest house has been renovated to provide accommodation for visiting merchants.
Fortunately, I even wrote a song to express my ambition.
"Winter October"
Different regions and localities, the river is cold in the middle of winter.
Drift ice floated on the river, making it difficult for boats to pass.
The cold weather does not penetrate the ground, and the north wind roars.
Water freezes but does not flow, and ice is hard enough to walk on.
The hermits among scholars are mostly poor, while the brave and righteous men are ill and ill.
My heart often sighs and complains, and my relatives are filled with sorrow.
Fortunately, I even wrote a song to express my ambition.
"Different Soils"
Although the turtle lives a long life, it will eventually die.
The soaring snake rides on the clouds and mist, and eventually turns into ashes.
The old man crouched on the horse's pole, aiming to gallop thousands of miles.
Although the martyrs are in their old age, their ambitions are endless.
Periods of ups and downs, misfortunes and blessings, do not all depend on God.
The blessings of cultivating one's nature and enjoying one's emotions can be obtained and enjoyed forever.
Fortunately, I even wrote a song to express my ambition.
"The Turtle Lives Longevity"


Chunk 30: 
original: 
淮南王篇
淮南王，自言尊，百尺高楼与天连。
后园凿井银作床，金瓶素绠汲寒浆。
汲寒浆，饮少年，少年窈窕何能贤。
扬声悲歌音绝天。
我欲渡河河无梁，愿作双黄鹄，还故乡。
还故乡，入故里，徘徊故乡，若身不已。
繁舞奇歌无不泰，徘徊桑梓游天外。
鼓角横吹曲。
鼓，案《周礼》 以鼓鼓军事 。
角，说者云，蚩尤氏帅魑魅与黄帝战于涿鹿，帝乃始命吹角为龙鸣以御之。
其后魏武北征乌丸，越沙漠而军士思归，于是减为中鸣，而尤更悲矣。
胡角者，本以应胡笳之声，后渐用之横吹，有双角，即胡乐也。
张博望入西域，传其法于西京，惟得《摩诃兜勒》一曲。
李延年因胡曲更造新声二十八解，乘舆以为武乐。
translation: 
"The King of Huainan"
The King of Huainan, he respected himself and built a hundred-foot-high building connected to the sky.
In the back garden, a well was dug with silver as a frame, and a gold vase with a plain rope was used to collect cold slurry.
Drinking cold liquid, drinking young people, young people will be slim, talented and virtuous.
Raise your voice and sing songs of sorrow that are astonishing to the heavens.
I want to cross the river without a bridge, and I would like to be a pair of yellow swans to accompany you back to your hometown.
Return to my hometown, return to my hometown, and linger in my hometown.
The dances and strange songs in my hometown are all peaceful, so why don’t I just travel to my hometown and travel to other places?
Drum and horn horizontal blowing music.
The so-called drum refers to the "Zhou Rites" saying that "drums are used to promote military affairs."
The so-called horn, it is said that Chi You led the devils and puppets to fight in the field of Shi Gong. The emperor ordered the horn to be blown to make the sound of dragon roaring to ward off Chi.
After that, Fudie went to the north for three days and crossed the desert. The soldiers wanted to return, so the sound was reduced to Zhongming, and its sound became even more sad.
The so-called Hu Jiao originally corresponded to the sound of Hu Jia. Later, it was gradually used for horizontal blowing. It has double horns, which is also Hu Le.
Zhang Bowang went to the Western Regions and passed on his playing skills to Xijing. He only got one piece, "Maha Doule".
Li Yannian composed a new song with twenty-eight chapters based on Hu music, and the emperor used it as martial music.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
后汉以给边将，和帝时，万人将军得用之。
魏晋以来，二十八解不复具存，用者有《黄鹄》、《陇头》、《出关》、《入关》、《出塞》、《入塞》、《折杨柳》、《黄覃子》、《赤之杨》、《望行人》十曲。
案魏晋之世，有孙氏善弘旧曲，宋识善击节唱和，陈左善清歌，列和善吹笛，郝索善弹筝，硃生善琵琶，尤发新声。
故傅玄著书曰： 人若钦所闻而忽所见，不亦惑乎？
设此六人生于上世，越今古而无俪，何但夔牙同契哉！
案此说，则自兹以后，皆孙硃等之遗则也。
相和，汉旧歌也，丝竹更相和，执节者歌。
本一部，魏明帝分为二，更递夜宿。
本十七曲，硃生、宋职、列和等复合之为十三曲。
但歌，四曲，出自汉世。
无弦节，作伎最先唱，一人唱，三人和。
魏武帝尤好之。
translation: 
During the period of Houmo, this music was used by the border generals. During the period of Emperor He, it was used by generals who had jurisdiction over thousands of people.
Since the Wei and Jin Dynasties, the twenty-eight chapters are no longer complete, and only ten songs are used: "Huang Hu", "Longtou", "Out of the Pass", "Entering the Pass", "Out of the Fortress", "Entering the Fortress", "Folding Willows", "Huang Tanzi", "Red Yang" and "Wang Xingren".
Examining the Wei and Jin Dynasties, there are Sun who is good at quoting old songs, Song Shi who is good at beating verses and singing harmonies, Chen Zuo who is good at clear singing, Lie He who is good at playing the flute, Hao Su who is good at playing the zither, Zhu Sheng who is good at playing the pipa, and is especially good at making new sounds.
That’s why Fu Xuan wrote: If people only pay attention to what they hear and ignore what they see, wouldn’t they also feel confused?
Assuming that these six people were born in the last world, transcending the present and the past and have no one to rival them, why would only Kui Ya be the same!
According to Fu Xuan, from then on, it was Sun Zhu and others' orders.
The Song of Harmony is an old song from the Mo Dynasty. Silk and bamboo are overlapping to harmonize each other, and those who are responsible sing.
Originally it was one part, but Emperor Wei Ming divided it into two parts and took turns staying at night.
Originally composed of seventeen tunes, Zhu Sheng, Song Shi, Lie He and others combined some of the tunes to form thirteen tunes.
There are four Danges from the Han Dynasty.
There is no string accompaniment, the lead singer sings first, one person sings, and the three join in harmony.
Emperor Wu of Wei was particularly fond of this.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
时有宋容华者，清彻好声，善唱此曲，当时之特妙。
自晋以来不复传，遂绝。
凡乐章古辞，今之存者，并汉世街陌谣讴，《江南可采莲》、《乌生十五子》、《白头吟》之属也。
吴歌杂曲并出江南，东晋以来，稍有增广。
《子夜歌》者，女子名子夜，造此声。
孝武太元中，琅邪王轲之家有鬼歌《子夜》，则子夜是此时以前人也。
《凤将雏歌》者，旧曲也。
应璩《百一诗》云 言是《凤将雏》 ，然则其来久矣。
《前溪歌》者，车骑将军沈充所制。
《阿子》及《欢闻歌》者，穆帝升平初，歌毕辄呼 阿子，汝闻不？
语在《五行志》。
后人衍其声，以为此二曲。
《团扇歌》者，中书令王珉与嫂婢有情，爱好甚笃，嫂捶挞婢过苦，婢素善歌，而珉好捉白团扇，故制此歌。
《懊憹歌》者，隆安初俗闻讹谣之曲，语在《五行志》。
translation: 
At that time, there was a man named Song Ronghua who had a clear voice and loved to sing. He was good at singing this song and was the most outstanding singer at that time.
Since the Jin Dynasty, it has not been passed down again, so it is extinct.
All the ancient lyrics of the music that have been preserved to this day, together with the street songs of the Han Dynasty, are such as "You Can Pick Lotus in the South of the Yangtze River", "Fifteen Sons of Wu Sheng", and "Baitou Yin".
Wu songs and miscellaneous songs all come from the south of the Yangtze River, and have been slightly expanded since the beginning of the Jin Dynasty.
"Midnight Song", according to legend, a woman named Ziye composed this song.
During the fifth year of Xiaowu's reign, a ghost sang "Song of Midnight" in the house of the fallen king Sudan, which shows that Ziye was a person from before this time.
"Phoenix General's Young Song" is an old song.
There is a sentence in "One Hundred and One Poems" that is called "Phoenix General's Young Bird". This saying has been around for a long time.
"Qianxi Song" was composed by General Chai Qi.
As for "A Zi" and "Song of Fear of Hearing", in Nie Tong's early years, he would often call out "A Zi" at the end of the song, did you hear it?
This statement is in "Five Elements Chronicles".
Later generations interpreted his voice and composed these two songs.
Speaking of "Song of the Tuan Fan", it was originally written by Zhongshu Ling that Wang Bao had a relationship with his sister-in-law's maid, and they loved each other very deeply. The sister-in-law beat the maid and it was very painful. The maid was good at singing, and Wang Min was good at holding a white round fan, so he composed this song.
"The Song of Chao Nong" is a folk ballad in the early years, and it is written in "Five Elements Chronicles".


Chunk 33: 
original: 
《长史变》者，司徒左长史王廞临败所制。
凡此诸曲，始皆徒歌，即而被之管弦。
又有因丝竹金石，造歌以被之，魏世三调歌辞之类是也。
《杯柈舞》，案太康中天下为《晋世宁舞》，务手以接杯柈反覆之。
此则汉世惟有柈舞，而晋加之以杯，反覆之也。
《公莫舞》，今之《巾舞》也。
相传云项庄剑舞，项伯以袖隔之，使不得害汉高祖，且语项庄云 公莫 ！
古人相呼曰公，言公莫害汉王也。
今之用巾盖像项伯衣袖之遗式。
然案《琴操》有《公莫渡河曲》，然则其声所从来已久，俗云项伯，非也。
《白纟宁舞》，案舞辞有巾袍之言。
纟宁本吴地所出，宜是吴舞也。
晋《俳歌》又云： 皎皎白绪，节节为双。
吴音呼绪为纟宁，疑白纟宁即白绪也。《铎舞歌》一篇，《幡舞歌》一篇，《鼓舞伎》六曲，并陈于元会。
后汉正旦，天子临德阳殿受朝贺，舍利从西方来，戏于殿前，激水化成比目鱼，跳跃嗽水，作雾翳日。
毕，又化成龙，长八九丈，出水游戏，炫耀日光。
以两大丝绳系两柱头，相去数丈，两倡女对舞，行于绳上，相逢切肩而不倾。
魏晋讫江左，犹有《夏育扛鼎》、《巨象行乳》、《神龟抃舞》、《背负灵岳》、《桂树白雪》、《画地成川》之乐。
成帝咸康七年，尚书蔡谟奏： 八年正会仪注，惟作鼓吹钟鼓，其余伎乐尽不作。
侍中张澄、给事黄门侍郎陈逵驳，以为 王者观时设教，至于吉凶殊断，不易之道也。
translation: 
"Chang Shi Bian" was written by Situ Zuo, Chang Shi Wang Yi, when he was defeated.
All the above songs were sung a cappella at the beginning, and orchestral accompaniment was added later.
Some of them are based on the music of silk, bamboo, metal and stone, and the lyrics are filled in the music. This is how Wei Shi's three-tone lyrics came about.
Cup Loop Dance, during Kao Saichen's reign, the whole world performed the "Jin Shining Dance", which was performed repeatedly by holding cups and plates with hands.
This dance only had a pan dance in the lotus world, but in the Jin Dynasty a cup was added, and the hands were repeatedly used to catch the cup and plate.
"Gong Mo Wu" is today's scarf dance.
According to legend, Xiang Zhuang was dancing with his sword. Xiang Bo blocked Xiang Zhuang's sword with his sleeve so that he could not harm Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty. He also said to him, "Gong Mo!"
The ancients called each other "gong", which meant that "gong" should not harm the king of Han.
Today, the scarf is used to cover Xiang Bo's sleeves to symbolize the way he wears his sleeves.
However, according to "Qin Cao" there is "Gong Mo Crossing the River Song", which shows that his song has a long history. It is wrong to say that he is Xiang Bo.
Bai Yu Wu, Cha Wu Ci has the words "turban and robe".
Yu originally came from Yudi, so it should be Yuwu.
Zhi "Hai Ge" also said: The white thread is bright and white, and each section is double.
The pronunciation of the pronunciation is that Xu is Yu, and Bai Chu may be Bai Xu. One piece of Duo Dance Song, one piece of Flag Dance Song, and six pieces of "Drum Dance" were presented together at the New Year's Day gathering.
On the New Year's Day of the Later Han Dynasty, the emperor came to Deyang Hall to receive congratulations from his ministers. Relics came from the west and were played in front of the hall. They stirred up the water and turned into flounder. They jumped to absorb the water and squirted the water into mist to block the sun.
Then, it transformed into a dragon, eight or nine feet long, played in the water, and was dazzling in the sunlight.
Two large silk ropes were tied to the tops of the two pillars, several feet apart. The two women danced opposite each other, walking on the silk ropes. They passed each other but did not fall.
Since the Wei and Jin Dynasties ended in Jiangzuo, there are still the joys of "Xia Yu Carrying the Cauldron", "The Giant Elephant Breastfeeding", "The Divine Turtle Dancing", "Carrying the Spiritual Mountain", "The Osmanthus Tree and the White Snow", and "The Painted Land Is a Sichuan".
In the seventh year of Emperor Cheng's reign in Xiankang, Shangshu Cai Mo wrote: In the eighth year of the New Year's Day, only the music of bells, drums and drums was played, and all other musical instruments were not played.
Zhang Cheng, the minister in charge, and Chen Kui, the minister in charge of the Huangmen Gate, refuted it, saying that the king sets his teachings according to the times, and that the judgment of good or bad is unchanging.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
今四方观礼，陵有傧吊之位，庭奏宫悬之乐，二礼兼用，哀乐不分，体国经制，莫大于此 。
诏曰： 今既以天下体大，礼从权宜，三正之飨，宜尽用吉礼也。
至娱耳目之乐，所不忍闻，故阙之耳。
事之大者，不过上寿酒，称万岁，已许其大，不足复阙钟鼓鼓吹也。
澄、逵又启： 今大礼虽降，事吉于朝。
然傧吊显于园陵，则未灭有哀；礼服定于典文，义无尽吉。
是以咸宁之会，有撤乐之典，实先朝稽古宪章，垂式万世者也。
诏曰： 若元日大飨，万国朝宗，庭废钟鼓之奏，遂阙起居之节，朝无磬制之音，宾无蹈履之度，其于事义，不亦阙乎！
惟可量轻重，以制事中。
translation: 
Nowadays, people from all over the world come to watch the ceremony. The cemetery has a place to pay homage to the ancestors. The court plays rites and music and the palace hangs them. Both rites are used. There is no distinction between mourning and music. There is nothing greater than this in building a country and establishing a system.
Emperor Shao said: Now that the world is the greatest, the etiquette should be based on expediency. The three correct sacrifices should all use sacrificial rituals.
As for the pleasure of entertaining the eyes and ears, it is unbearable to listen to it, so it is okay to lack it.
If the matter is of great importance, it can only be celebrated with longevity wine and long live. Since it is recognized that the matter is of great importance, there is no shortage of bells and drums to promote it.
Zhang Cheng and Chen Kui also reported: Although the ceremony is over, things are auspicious for the court.
However, if the hanging is displayed in the garden or mausoleum, it is not extinguished as mourning; the formal dress is determined in the classics, but its meaning is not entirely auspicious.
Therefore, the Xianning court meeting had a ceremony for withdrawing music, which was actually a ceremony for the previous dynasties to evaluate the ancient laws and regulations and set a model for all generations.
The emperor issued an edict: If the ceremony of offering sacrifices is held on New Year's Day, and the princes of all nations meet the emperor, and the music of bells and drums is abandoned in the court, the etiquette of entering and exiting daily life will be missing, and the sound of stone chimes will not be heard in the court, and the steps of the guests will lose control. Isn't it also lacking in the righteousness of the matter?
Only by weighing the importance of things can we do it just right.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
散骑侍郎顾臻表曰： 臣闻圣王制乐，赞扬政道，养以仁义，防其淫佚，上享宗庙，下训黎元，体五行之正音，协八风以陶物。
宫声正方而好义，角声坚齐而率礼，弦歌钟鼓金石之作备矣。
故通神至化，有率舞之感，移风易俗，致和乐之极。
末世之伎，设礼外之观，逆行连倒，头足入筥之属，皮肤外剥，肝心内摧，敦彼行苇，犹谓勿践，矧伊生灵，而不侧怆。
加四海朝觐，言观帝庭，耳聆《雅》《颂》之声，目睹威仪之序，足以蹋天，头以履地，反天地之至顺，伤彝伦之大方。
今夷狄对岸，外御为急，兵食七升，忘身赴难，过泰之戏，日廪五斗。
translation: 
Gu Zhen, the minister of Sanqi, reported: I heard that the holy king formulated the ritual and music system to praise the righteous way, teach the people to be benevolent and righteous, and prevent them from laziness and adultery. It can be used to worship in the ancestral temple, and to teach the people below. It contains the correct music of the five elements, and harmonizes with the winds of all directions to cultivate the material sentiments.
The sound of the palace is upright and righteous, the sound of the trumpet is firm and neat and ritual, and the music of strings, songs, bells, drums, gold and stone is complete.
Therefore, it can be deeply rooted in people's hearts and exert a subtle influence on people, making people feel like dancing according to rituals, and can change customs to achieve a state of extreme harmony and happiness.
The singing and dancing acrobatics of the last days often include performances that are not in line with etiquette, such as running in reverse and falling over one after another, putting the head and feet into a bamboo basket, etc., which peels off the skin on the outside and destroys the liver and heart on the inside.
Besides, the princes from all over the world came to see the Emperor, saying that they wanted to see the Imperial Court, listen to the sounds of "Ya" and "Song", and witness the order of majestic ceremonies, but they saw that they stepped on the sky with their feet and walked on the earth with their heads, contrary to the order of heaven and earth, which was harmful to human ethics.
Nowadays, Yi and Di are facing each other across the river. They are most desperate to defend themselves from powerful enemies. They have seven liters of food for their troops, but they forget to die in order to fight for the national calamity. However, when encountering a serious disaster, they are given five fights a day.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
方扫神州，经略中甸，若此之事，不可示远。
宜下太常，纂备雅乐，箫《韶》九成，惟新于盛运，功德颂声，永著于来叶，此乃所以 燕及皇天，克昌厥后 者也。
诸伎而伤人者，皆宜除之。
流简俭之德，迈康哉之咏，清风既行，下应如草，此之谓也。
愚管之诚，惟垂采察！
于是除《高絙》、《紫鹿》、《跂行》、《鳖食》及《齐王卷衣》、《笮兒》等乐，又减其廪。
其后复《高絙》、《紫鹿》焉。
translation: 
Now we are sweeping through China and planning for the Central Plains. Things like this cannot be shown to the world.
In response to the order of Taichang, he compiled 90% of the elegant music, such as Xiao "Shao", to restore the national destiny in the prosperous age, sing the praises of virtues, and forever prosper in future generations. This is a major event for Yan Ji Huangtian and Kechang later.
All singing and dancing acrobatics that hurt others should be abolished.
This is what is said in the chant that promotes the virtue of frugality and encourages the peace and prosperity of the country and the people. As the breeze moves, it should be like grass.
Foolish ministers are sincere in their opinions, but they only hope to be discerned and adopted.
So the music such as "Gaoyuan", "Purple Deer", "Limbs Walking", "Tongshi", "Qi Wang Rolling Clothes", "Zie'er" and other music were abolished, and his food was reduced.
Later, "Gao Huan" and "Purple Deer" were restored.


