Chunk 0: 
original: 
高诩包咸魏应伏恭任末景鸾薛汉杜抚召驯杨仁赵晔卫宏董钧丁恭周泽钟兴甄宇楼望程曾张玄李育何休服虔颍容谢该许慎蔡玄
《前书》鲁人申公受《诗》于浮丘伯，为作诂训，是为《鲁诗》；齐人辕固生亦传《诗》，是为《齐诗》；燕人韩婴亦传《诗》，是为《韩诗》；三家皆立博士。赵人毛苌传《诗》，是为《毛诗》，未得立。高诩字季回，平原般人也。
曾祖父嘉，以《鲁诗》授元帝，仕至上谷太守。
父容，少传嘉学，哀、平间为光禄大夫。
诩以父任为郎中，世传《鲁诗》。
以信行清操知名。
王莽篡位，父子称盲，逃，不仕莽世。
光武即位，大司空宋弘荐诩，征为郎，除符离长。
去官，后征为博士。
建武十一年，拜大司农。
在朝以方正称。
十三年，卒官，赐钱及冢田。
包咸字子良，会稽曲阿人也。
少为诸生，受业长安，师事博士右师细君，习《鲁诗》、《论语》。
王莽末，去归乡里，于东海界为赤眉贼所得，遂见拘执。
translation: 
In the "First Book", Duke Shen of Lu received poems from Fuqiu Bo and wrote exegesis, which is called "Shi of Lu"; the "Shi" explained by Yuan Gusheng of Qi is called "Shi of Qi"; the "Poetry" explained by Han Ying of Yan is called "Shi of Han"; all three schools have Ph.D. The "Poetry" explained by Mao Chang from Zhao is called "Mao Shi", and he did not establish a doctorate.
◆The biography of Gao Xu, named Ji Hui, was from Pingyuan County.
Great-grandfather Gao Jia taught the Yuan Emperor with "Lu Shi" and became the prefect of Shanggu.
Gao Xu's father, Gao Rong, taught Gao Jiaxue when he was young, and became Guanglu doctor during the reigns of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping.
Because of his father's relationship, Gao Xu served as a doctor and taught "Lu Shi" from generation to generation.
He is famous for his honest words and deeds.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, the father and son pretended to be blind and ran away, refusing to serve as Wang Mang's officials.
When Guangwu came to the throne, the Grand Sikong Song Hong recommended him to be a high-ranking official, he was appointed as a Lang, and he was granted the title of Fu Lichang.
After resigning from the official position, he was recruited as a doctor.
In the eleventh year of Jianwu's reign, he was awarded the title of Grand Secretary of Agriculture.
He was famous in the imperial court for his official residence.
In the thirteenth year, he died in office and was given money and a cemetery plot.
◆Bao Xian's biography, Bao Xian's courtesy name is Ziliang, and he was born in Qu'a, Kuaiji.
When he was young, he was a Zhusheng and studied in Chang'an. He studied "Lu Shi" and "The Analects of Confucius" with his doctorate from Xijun as his teacher.
In the last years of his life, Wang Mang returned to his hometown and was arrested by red-browed thieves in the East China Sea.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
十余日，咸晨夜诵经自若，贼异而遣之。
因住东海，立精舍讲授。
光武即位，乃归乡里。
太守黄谠署户曹史，欲召咸入授其子。
咸曰： 礼有来学，而无往教。
谠遂遣子师之。举孝廉，除郎中。
建武中，入授皇太子《论语》，又为其章句。
拜谏议大夫、侍中、右中郎将。
永平五年，迁大鸿胪。
每进见，锡以几杖，入屏不趋，赞事不名。
经传有疑，辄遣小黄门就舍即问。
显宗以咸有师傅恩，而素清苦，常特赏赐珍玩束帛，奉禄增于诸卿，咸皆散与诸生之贫者。
病笃、帝亲辇驾临视。
八年，年七十二，卒于官。
子福，拜郎中，亦以《论语》入授和帝。
魏应字君伯，任城人也。
少好学。
translation: 
For more than ten days, Bao Xian could chant sutras in the morning and evening freely. The red-browed thieves were surprised and sent him away.
So he lived in the East China Sea and built a monastery to teach.
After Guangwu ascended the throne, he returned to his hometown.
Huang Fan, the prefect, was appointed as the governor of the household, and wanted to find Bao Xian to teach his son.
Bao Xian said: Etiquette can be learned, not taught.
Huang Fan sent his son to ask him for advice, and he became his teacher. For filial piety and honesty, he was awarded the title of doctor.
During the Jianwu period, he entered the imperial court to teach the crown prince to study the Analects of Confucius, and also wrote chapters and sentences of the Analects of Confucius.
He was awarded the title of admonishment to the senior official, Shizhong, and Youzhonglang general.
In the fifth year of Yongping, he was promoted to Dahonglu.
Every time he came to see the emperor, the emperor would give him a few sticks.
If there is any doubt in the scriptures, Xiao Huangmen is often sent to his home to ask.
Xianzong believed that Bao Xian had the kindness of a teacher and lived a poor life. He often rewarded Bao Xian with rare silks and silks, and his salary was more than that of other ministers. Bao Xian was given to the poorest among the living.
When he was seriously ill, Xianzong went to see him in person.
Eight years later, at the age of seventy-two, he died in office.
His son Bao Fu was awarded the title of doctor, and he also used "The Analects of Confucius" to teach and teach in the imperial court.
◆In the biography of Wei Ying, Wei Ying was named Jun Bo and was a native of Rencheng.
It is easy to learn when you are young.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
建武初，诣博士受业，习《鲁诗》。
闭门诵习，不交僚党，京师称之。
后归为郡吏，举明经，除济阴王文学。
以疾免官，教授山泽中，徒众常数百人。
永平初，为博士，再迁侍中。
十三年，迁大鸿胪。
十八年，拜光禄大夫。
建初四年，拜五官中郎将，诏入授千乘王伉。
应经明行修，弟子自远方至，著录数千人。
肃宗甚重之，数进见，论难于前，特受赏赐。
时会京师诸儒于白虎观，讲论《五经》同异，使应专掌难问，侍中淳于恭奏之，帝亲临称制，如石渠故事。
明年，出为上党太守，征拜骑都尉，卒于官。
伏恭字叔齐，琅邪东武人，司徒湛之兄子也。
translation: 
In the early years of Jianwu, he went to study for a doctoral degree and studied "Lu Shi".
He studied behind closed doors and made no friends, and everyone in the capital praised him.
Later he returned home and became a county official. He taught Ming scriptures and taught literature to King Yin.
He was dismissed from his official post due to illness and became a professor in Shan Zezhong, often with hundreds of students and disciples.
In the early years of Yongping, he became a doctor and was promoted to minister.
In the thirteenth year, he was promoted to Dahonglu.
In the eighteenth year, he was awarded Doctor Guanglu.
In the fourth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, he was awarded the title of "Five-Guan Zhonglang General".
Wei Ying was proficient in Confucian classics and had a pure moral character. He had thousands of disciples who came from far away to learn from him.
Suzong valued him very much, visited him many times, discussed problems in front of the emperor, and received special rewards.
At this time, the Confucian scholars of the capital were gathered at Baihu Temple to discuss the similarities and differences of the Five Classics, and Wei Ying was asked to explain the difficulties. Chun Yugong, the servant, reported to the emperor. The emperor personally attended the meeting to preside over it, just like the old thing in Shiqu.
In the second year, Wei Ying was appointed as the governor of Shangdang and was awarded the title of cavalry captain. He died in office.
◆The biography of Fu Gong, Fu Gong's courtesy name Shuqi, was a native of Dongwu, Langfu, and the son of Situ Fuzhan's younger brother.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
湛弟黯，字稚文，以明《齐诗》，改定章句，作《解说》九篇，位至光禄勋，无子，以恭为后。
恭性孝，事所继母甚谨，少传黯学，以任为郎。
建武四年，除剧令。
视事十三年，以惠政公廉闻。
青州举为尤异，太常试经第一，拜博士，迁常山太守。
郭修学校，教授不辍，由是北州多为伏氏学。
永平二年，代梁松为太仆。
四年，帝临辟雍，于行礼中拜恭为司空，儒者以为荣。
初，父黯章句繁多，恭乃省减浮辞，定为二十万言。
在位九年，以病乞骸骨罢，诏赐千石奉以终其身。
十五年，行幸琅邪，引遇如三公仪。
建初二年冬，肃宗行飨礼，以恭为三老。
年九十，元和元年卒，赐葬显节陵下。
子寿，官至东郡太守。
translation: 
Fu Zhan's younger brother Fu An, whose courtesy name was Zhiwen, changed the chapters and sentences in order to clarify "Qi Shi" and wrote nine chapters of "Explanation". He rose to the rank of Guang Luxun. Fu Zhan had no sons, so he took Fu Gong as his queen.
Fu Gong has a filial nature and treats his stepmother with great respect. When he was young, he passed on the Fu An School and was appointed as a man.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, he was awarded the title of county magistrate.
He served for thirteen years and became famous for his political integrity and fairness.
Qingzhou selected him as a special scholar. He ranked first in Taichang's classics examination, was awarded a doctorate, and was promoted to the prefect of Changshan.
He built schools and taught more than one disciple, so Beizhou was mostly Fu's school.
In the second year of Yongping, he replaced Liang Song as the imperial servant.
In the fourth year, the emperor personally went to Piyong and during the ceremony, he conferred Fugong the title of Sikong. Confucian scholars considered it an honor.
At first, Fugong's father Fu An's chapter was too complicated, so Fugong deleted the redundant words and the final version was 200,000 words.
After reigning for nine years, he asked to go home due to illness and was granted a salary of thousands of dollars to last his life.
In the fifteenth year, the emperor came to Langfu and introduced Fugong, which was like a ceremony to meet the three princes.
In the winter of the second year of Jianchu, Suzong held a feast and called Fugong the third elder.
In the 90th year of his reign, he passed away in the first year of Yuanhe and was buried under the Xianjie Mausoleum.
His son Fushou was promoted to the prefect of Dongjun.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
任末字叔本，蜀郡繁人也。
少习《齐诗》，游京师，教授十余年。
友人董奉德于洛阳病亡，末乃躬推鹿车，载奉德丧致其墓所，由是知名。
为郡功曹，辞以病免。
后奔师丧，于道物故。
临命，敕兄子造曰： 必致我尸于师门，使死而有知，魂灵不惭；如其无知，得土而已。
造从之。
景鸾字汉伯，广汉梓潼人也。
少随师学经，涉七州之地。
能理《齐诗》、《施氏易》、兼受《河》、《洛》图纬，作《易说》及《诗解》，文句兼取《河》、《洛》，以类相从，名为《交集》。
又撰《礼内外记》，号曰《礼略》。又抄风角杂书，列其占验，作《兴道》一篇。
及作《月令章句》。
凡所著述五十余万言。
数上书陈救灾变之术。
州郡辟命不就，以寿终。
薛汉字公子，淮阳人也。
translation: 
◆In the biography of Ren Mo, his courtesy name is Shuben. He was a native of Fan County, Shu County.
When he was young, he studied "Qi Shi", traveled to the capital, and taught his disciples for more than ten years.
When his friend Dong Fengde died of illness in Luoyang, Ren Mo personally pushed the deer cart to carry Dong Fengde's funeral to the cemetery, which made him famous.
He was a meritorious officer of the county and resigned due to illness.
Later, Ben died on the road at the funeral of his teacher.
When he was about to die, he told his brother's son Ren Zao: "My body must be sent to the teacher. If I am still conscious after death, my soul will not feel ashamed; if I am not conscious, I have to leave it alone."
Ren Zao listened to him.
◆Jing Luan's biography, Jing Luan's courtesy name is Han Bo, and he was born in Zitong, Guanghan.
When he was young, he studied scriptures with his teacher and traveled all over the seven states.
He was able to attack "Qi Shi" and "Shi Shi Yi", and also absorbed the pictures and latitudes of "Heluo", and wrote "Yi Shuo" and "Poetry Interpretation". He also wrote "The Internal and External Notes on Rites", which is called "The Rite Brief".
He also copied Fengjiao's miscellaneous books, listed the predictions, and wrote an article "Xingdao".
And wrote "Moon Order Chapters and Sentences".
His writings total more than 500,000 words.
He wrote many letters describing extraordinary disaster relief techniques.
The prefectures and counties were not established. End with life.
◆Xue Hanzhuan, Xue Hanzi Gongzi, a native of Huaiyang.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
世习《韩诗》，父子以章句著名。
汉少传父业，尤善说灾异谶纬，教授常数百人。
建武初，为博士，受诏校定图谶。
当世言《诗》者，推汉为长。
永平中，为千乘太守，政有异迹。
后坐楚事辞相连，下狱死。
弟子犍为杜抚、会稽澹台敬伯、钜鹿韩伯高最知名。
杜抚字叔和，犍为武阳人也。
少有高才。
受业于薛汉，定《韩诗章句》。
后归乡里教授。
沈静乐道，举动必以礼。
弟子千余人。后为骠骑将军东平王苍所辟，及苍就国，掾史悉补王官属，未满岁，皆自劾归。
时，抚为大夫，不忍去，苍闻，赐车马财物遣之。
辟太尉府。
建初中，为公车令，数月卒官。
其所作《诗题约义通》，学者传之，曰《杜君法》云。
translation: 
They have been studying "Han Shi" for generations, and both father and son are famous for their interpretation of the chapters and sentences of the scriptures.
When Xue Han was young, he passed on his father's studies and was particularly good at predicting disasters and prophecies. He often taught hundreds of students.
In the early years of Jianwu, he became a doctor and was ordered to compile the prophecies.
Among those who talked about "Poetry" in the world, Xue Han was ranked first.
In Yongpingzhong, he was the prefect of Qiancheng and had particularly good political achievements.
Later, he was convicted of the Chu incident and was imprisoned to death.
The most famous disciples were Jianwei Du Fu, Tantai Jingbo in Kuaiji, and Han Bogao in Julu.
◆In the biography of Du Fu, Du Fu was named Shuhe, and Qian was a native of Wuyang.
Very talented when he was young.
Learned from Xue Han and settled on "Korean Poetry Chapters".
Later he returned to his hometown to teach students.
Shen Yi is quiet, takes Tao as his pleasure, and every move is based on etiquette.
There were more than a thousand disciples, and they were later conquered by the hussar general Wang Cang of Dongping. When Cang came to the country, all the officials of the imperial family were recruited to supplement the royal family. Within a year, they all went back.
Du Fu was a doctor at that time and couldn't bear to leave. Cang heard about it and sent him off with carriages, horses and property.
Established Taiwei Mansion.
He built a junior high school and served as a bus commander. He only lasted a few months and died in office.
His "Poem Titles and Meanings" is passed down and recited by scholars, and is called "Du Junfa".


Chunk 6: 
original: 
召驯字伯春，九江寿春人也。
曾祖信臣，元帝时为少府。
父建武中为卷令，俶傥不拘小节。
驯小习《韩诗》，博通书传，以志义闻，乡里号之曰 德行恂恂召伯春 。
累仕州郡，辟司徒府。
建初元年，稍迁骑都尉，侍讲肃宗。
拜左中郎将，入授诸王。
帝嘉其义学，恩宠甚崇。出拜陈留太守，赐刀剑钱物。
元和二年，入为河南尹。
章和二年，代任隗为光禄勋，卒于官，赐冢茔陪园陵。
孙休，位至青州刺史。
杨仁字文义，巴郡阆中人也。
建武中，诣师学习《韩诗》，数年归，静居教授。
仕郡为功曹，举孝廉，除郎。
太常上仁经中博士，仁自以年未五十，不应旧科，上府让选。
显宗特诏补北宫卫士令，引见，问当世政迹。
仁对以宽和任贤，抑黜骄戚为先。
又上便宜十二事，皆当世急务。
帝嘉之，赐以缣钱。
及帝崩，时诸马贵盛，各争欲入宫，仁被甲持戟，严勒门卫，莫敢轻进者。
肃宗既立，诸马共谮仁刻峻，帝知其忠，愈善之，拜什邡令。
宽惠为政，劝课掾史弟子，悉令就学。
其有通明经术者，显之右署，或贡之朝，由是义学大兴。
垦田千余顷。
translation: 
◆Zhao Xunzhuan, whose courtesy name is Bochun, was born in Shouchun, Jiujiang.
Great-grandfather summoned his ministers to serve as Shaofu during the reign of Emperor Yuan.
His father, Jianwu Zhong, was a county magistrate, and he was dissolute and unruly.
Zhao Xun studied "Han Shi" when he was young. He had extensive knowledge of classics and biographies, and was famous for his ambition and righteousness. The villagers say: Virtue and virtue call for Bochun.
He went out to serve in various prefectures and counties many times and recruited Situ Mansion.
In the first year of Jianchu's reign, he was promoted to Captain of Cavalry and served as Suzong's minister.
He was awarded the title of General Zuo Zhonglang and taught the princes in the dynasty.
The emperor commended him and showed great favor to him. He was awarded the title of Grand Administrator Chenliu and was given swords, money and supplies.
In the second year of Yuanhe, he became Yin of Henan.
In the second year of Zhanghe, he was appointed as Kuaizuo Guangluxun. He died in office and was given a tomb to accompany the garden mausoleum.
His grandson was called Zhaoxiu, and he became the governor of Qingzhou.
◆The biography of Yang Ren, whose courtesy name is Wenyi, was from Langzhong, Bajun.
In Jianwu Middle School, he studied "Han Shi" as a teacher. After a few years, he returned home and taught his students quietly.
Serve as a county meritorious official, promote filial piety and integrity, and grant titles to men.
Taichang was appointed to Yang Ren as a doctor. Yang Ren himself believed that he was under fifty and should not continue his studies, so he went to the government to be elected.
Xianzong issued a special edict to supplement the Beigong Guards Order. The emperor introduced him and asked about the current political situation.
Yang Ren replied that he should be lenient in government, appoint wise men, and suppress arrogant relatives first.
There are also twelve things that are beneficial to the country, which are all urgent tasks of the world.
Xianzong commended him and gave him money.
After the death of Xianzong, all the noble families were vying to enter the palace. Yang Ren wore armor and held a halberd, and strictly guarded the door. No one dared to enter casually.
When Suzong came to the throne, all the Ma clans jointly accused Yang Ren of being cruel and cruel. The emperor knew about Yang Renzhong and liked him even more, and he was promoted to Fang.
Tolerance is the rule of government, and students are encouraged to teach and study history, so that they can all enter the school.
Among them, those who were proficient in classics were commended to their superiors, and some contributed to the court, which led to a great development of righteous learning.
More than a thousand hectares of farmland were cultivated.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
行兄丧去官。
后辟司徒桓虞府。
掾有宋章者，贪奢不法，仁终不与交言同席，时人畏其节。
后为阆中令，卒于官。
赵晔字长君，会稽山阴人也。
少尝为县吏，奉檄迎督邮，晔耻于斯役，遂弃车马去。
到犍为资中，诣杜抚受《韩诗》，究竟其术。
积二十年，绝问不还，家为发丧制服。
抚卒乃归。
州召补从事，不就。
卒于家。
卫宏字敬仲，东海人也。
少与河南郑兴俱好古学。
初，九江谢曼卿善《毛诗》，乃为其训。
宏从曼卿受学，因作《毛诗序》，善得《风雅》之旨，于今传于世。
后从大司空杜林更受《古文尚书》，为作《训旨》。
时济南徐巡师事宏，后从林受学，亦以儒显，由是古学大兴。
光武以为议郎。
translation: 
He resigned from office because of his brother's funeral.
Later, Situ Huanyu Mansion was established.
There was Song Zhang, who was corrupt and illegal, but Yang Ren never spoke to him and sat at the same table. People at that time respected his integrity.
Later he became the Langzhong Order. Die in office.
◆Zhao Ye's biography, Zhao Ye's courtesy name is Changjun, a native of Shanyin in Kuaiji.
When he was young, he worked as a county official and was ordered to greet the postal supervisor. Zhao Ye thought it was shameful to do such a servant job, so he abandoned his carriage and left.
He went to Zizhong County, Qianwei, and went to Du Fu to study "Han Shi" and study it in depth.
After twenty years, he cut off contact with his family and refused to go back. His family held a funeral for him.
He returned after Du Fu's death.
The state called him to replenish his job, but he didn't do it.
There is a way to do it.
Die at home. ◆Biography of Wei Hong, courtesy name Jingzhong, a native of Donghai.
When he was young, he and Zheng Xing of Henan were both fond of ancient studies.
At first, Xie Manqing from Jiujiang was good at speaking "Mao's Poems" and provided exegesis for "Mao's Poems".
Wei Hong learned from Xie Manqing and wrote "Preface to Mao's Poems", which is very elegant and is still popular in society today.
Later, he received the "Guwen Shangshu" from the great Sikong Dulin and wrote the "Xunzhi" for the "Guwen Shangshu".
At this time, Xu Xun of Jinan worshiped Wei Hong as his teacher, and later studied with Du Lin. He was also famous for Confucianism, and ancient learning flourished.
Guangwu was appointed as Yilang.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
宏作《汉旧仪》四篇，以载西京杂事；又著赋、颂、诔七首，皆传于世。
中兴后，郑众、贾逵传《毛诗》，后马融作《毛诗传》，郑玄作《毛诗笺》。
《前书》鲁高堂生，汉兴传《礼》十七篇。
后瑕丘萧奋以授同郡后苍，苍授梁人戴德及德兄子圣、沛人庆普。
于是德为《大戴礼》，圣为《小戴礼》，普为《庆氏礼》，三家皆立博士。
孔安国所献《礼》古经五十六篇及《周官经》六篇，前世传其书，未有名家。
中兴已后，亦有《大》、《小戴》博士，虽相传不绝，然未有显于儒林者。
建武中，曹充习庆氏学，传其子褒，遂撰《汉礼》，事在《褒传》。
董钧字文伯，犍为资中人也。
习《庆氏礼》。
事大鸿胪王临。
元始中，举明经，迁禀牺令。病去官。
建武中，举孝廉，辟司徒府。
钧博通古今，数言政事。
translation: 
Wei Hong wrote four chapters of "Old Rites of the Han Dynasty", recording miscellaneous events in Xijing; he also wrote seven poems, odes and poems, all of which have been handed down to the world.
After the ZTE, Zheng Zhong and Jia Kui wrote "Mao's Poems", and later Ma Rong wrote "Mao's Poems" and Zheng Xuan wrote "Mao's Poems".
"Qianshu" contains seventeen chapters of "Li", a biography of Lu Gaotang's life in Han Dynasty.
Later, Xiao Fenyong from Xiaqiu was granted the title of Hou Cang, who was from the same county, and Hou Cang was granted the title of Dai Sheng, the son of Dai De and De's elder brother, who was from Liang, and Qingpu, who was from Pei.
So those who were grateful were called "Da Dai Li", those who were Dai Sheng were called "Xiao Dai Li", and those who were Qing Pu were called "Qing Shi Li". All three families established doctors.
Kong Anguo presented fifty-six chapters of the ancient "Li" and six chapters of the "Zhou Guan Jing". His books were handed down from previous generations, and there were no famous writers.
After the ZTE, there were also "Da Dai" and "Xiao Dai" doctors. Although they were passed down from generation to generation, none of them became famous among the scholars.
During the Jianwu period, Cao Chong studied the Qing clan and passed it on to his son Cao Bao, who wrote "Han Rites" and the events are recorded in the "Qingyan Biography".
◆In the biography of Dong Jun, Dong Jun was named Wenbo and was a native of Zizhong County, Qianwei County.
Learn "Qingshi Rites".
His teacher was Da Honglu, Wang Lin.
In the middle of the Yuan Dynasty, he raised the Ming Sutra, promoted the animal sacrifice order, and resigned due to illness.
In Jianwu, he promoted filial piety and integrity and established Situ's mansion.
Dong Jun was well versed in ancient and modern knowledge and wrote many times about the pros and cons of political affairs.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
永平初，为博士。
时草创五郊祭祀，及宗庙礼乐，威仪章服，辄令钧参议，多见从用，当世称为通儒。
累迁五官中郎将，常教授门生百余人。
后坐事左转骑都尉。年七十余，卒于家。
中兴，郑众传《周官经》，后马融作《周官传》，授郑玄，玄作《周官注》。
玄本习《小戴礼》，后以古经校之，取其义长者，故为郑氏学。
玄又注小戴所传《礼记》四十九篇，通为《三礼》焉。
《前书》齐胡母子都传《公羊春秋》，授东平赢公，赢公授东海孟卿，孟卿授鲁人眭孟，眭孟授东海严彭祖、鲁人颜安乐。
彭祖为《春秋》严氏学，安乐为《春秋》颜氏学，又瑕丘江公传《穀梁春秋》，三家皆立博士。
梁太傅贾谊为《春秋左氏传训诂》，授赵人贯公。
丁恭字子然，山阳东缗人也。
习《公羊严氏春秋》。
恭学义精明，教授常数百人，州郡请召不应。
建武初，为谏议大夫、博士，封关内侯。
translation: 
At the beginning of Yongping, he was a doctor.
At this time, the five suburbs sacrifices and ancestral temple rituals and music were being created, as well as the majestic etiquette and uniforms. Dong Jun was often called to consult, and many of them were adopted. He was called Tongru at that time.
He has been promoted to general of the five sense organs, and often teaches more than a hundred students.
Later, he was demoted to the rank of Cavalry Commander due to some circumstances. He died at home when he was more than seventy years old.
During the Zhongxing Dynasty, Zheng Zhong wrote the "Zhou Guan Jing", and later Ma Rong wrote the "Zhou Guan Zhuan", which was awarded to Zheng Xuan, and Zheng Xuan wrote the "Zhou Guan Annotation".
Zheng Xuan originally studied "Xiao Dai Li", but later used ancient scriptures to proofread it and adopted the best meanings in the ancient scriptures, so it was called Zheng's study.
Zheng Xuan also annotated forty-nine chapters of the "Book of Rites" passed down by Xiao Dai, which together are called "Three Rites".
According to the "Previous Book", both mother and son of Qi and Hu conferred the title of "Gongyang Chunqiu" to Duke Ying of Dongping, Duke Meng of Donghai was granted the title, Mengqing was granted the title Suimeng of Lu, and Suimeng was granted the title of Yan Pengzu of Donghai and Yan Anle of Lu.
Peng Zu studied under the Yan family of "Chun Qiu", Anle studied under the Yan family of "Chun Qiu", and Xia Qiu Jianggong passed down the "Gu Liang Chun Qiu". All three schools have Ph.D.
Jia Yi, Taifu of Liang Dynasty, compiled the "Exegesis of Zuo's Biography in the Spring and Autumn Period" and awarded it to Zhao Ren Guan Gong.
◆Ding Gong's biography, Ding Gong's courtesy name is Ziran, and he was born in Dongmin, Shanyang.
Study "Gongyang Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals".
Ding Gong was a shrewd scholar. He often taught hundreds of students and was often called upon by the prefectures and counties.
In the early days of Jianwu, he served as an admonition to the officials and doctors, and was granted the title of Marquis within the Pass.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
十一年，迁少府。
诸生自远方至者，著录数千人，当世称为大儒。
太常楼望、侍中承宫、长水校尉樊矹等皆受业于恭。
二十年，拜侍中祭酒、骑都尉，与侍中刘昆俱在光武左右，每事谘访焉。
卒于官。
周泽字稺都，北海安丘人也。
少习《公羊严氏春秋》，隐居教授，门徒常数百人。
建武末，辟大司马府，署议曹祭酒。
数月，征试博士。
中元元年，迁黾池令。
奉公克己，矜恤孤羸，吏人归爱之。
永平五年，迁右中郎将。
十年，拜太常。
泽果敢直言，数有据争。
后北地太守廖信坐贪秽下狱，没入财产，显宗以信臧物班诸廉吏，唯泽及光禄勋孙堪、大司农常冲特蒙赐焉。
是时京师翕然，在位者咸自勉励。
堪字子稺，河南缑氏人也。
translation: 
In the eleventh year, he was promoted to Shaofu.
His disciples came from far away, and there were thousands of them on the list, and they were called great Confucians in the world.
Taichang Louwang, Shizhong Chenggong, Changshui School Captain Fan Gui, etc. were all students of Ding Gong.
In the 20th year, he was awarded the title of Jijiu Lieutenant and Cavalry Captain among his servants. He and Liu Kun, his servant, were all around Guangwu and asked them about everything.
Died in office.
◆Zhou Zechuan, whose courtesy name is Guidu, was born in Anqiu, Beihai.
When he was young, he studied "Gongyang Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals" and taught in seclusion. He often had hundreds of students.
In the last years of Jianwu's reign, he summoned the Grand Sima Mansion and asked Cao to sacrifice wine.
It had only been a few months since we were recruiting for Ph.D.
In the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, he was promoted to the Lingchi Order.
He was loyal to the public and self-denial, and pitied the lonely, old and weak. He was loved by both officials and the people.
In the fifth year of Yongping, he was promoted to General Youzhonglang.
Ten years, the teaching is too often.
Zhou Ze spoke out boldly and argued with the court many times based on his reasoning.
Later, Liao Xin, the governor of the North, was imprisoned for corruption and his property was confiscated. Emperor Xianzong gave Liao Xin's stolen goods to honest officials. Only Zhou Ze, Guang Luxun Sun Kan, and Da Sinong Changchong received special rewards.
At this time, the capital was peaceful and those in power encouraged each other.
Sun Kan, courtesy name Zigui, was from the Feng family in Henan.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
明经学，有志操，清白贞正，爱士大夫，然一毫未尝取于人，以节介气勇自行。
王莽末，兵革并起，宗族老弱在营保间，堪常力战陷敌，无所回避，数被创刃，宗族赖之，郡中咸服其义勇。
建武中，仕郡县。
公正廉洁，奉禄不及妻子，皆以供宾客。
及为长吏，所在有迹，为吏人所敬仰。
喜分明去就。
尝为县令，谒府，趋步迟缓，门亭长谴堪御吏，堪便解印绶去，不之官。
后复仕为左冯翊，坐遇下促急，司隶校尉举奏免官。
数月，征为侍御史，再迁尚书令。
永平十一年，拜光禄勋。
堪清廉，果于从政，数有直言，多见纳用。
十八年，以病乞身，为侍中骑都尉，卒于官。堪行类于泽，故京师号曰 二稺 。
translation: 
He is well versed in classics, has ambitions, is honest and upright, and loves scholar-bureaucrats, but he has never taken away a single hair from others, and he prides himself on being honest and upright.
In the last years of Wang Mang, the world was in chaos, and the clan was old and weak on the battlefield. Sun Kan once fought hard and fell into the enemy's position. He didn't care and was injured in many places. It was only through him that the clan was saved from disaster. Everyone in the county admired his bravery for justice.
In Jianwu, he became an official in counties and counties.
He is fair and honest, and his salary and salary are not given to his family, but are provided to his guests.
Later, he served as a long-time official. He achieved good results wherever he went and was respected by officials and the people.
It's clear when you go there, it's not careless at all.
He once served as a county magistrate. When he visited the prefect, he walked slowly. The head of the pavilion reprimanded Sun Kan's imperial officials, so Sun Kan took off his seal and ribbon and left without going to the government.
Later, he served as Zuo Fengyi again. Because he was impatient with his subordinates, the Sili school captain dismissed him from his post.
A few months later, he was promoted to the imperial censor, and then promoted to minister.
In the eleventh year of Yongping, he was awarded Guang Luxun.
Sun Kan was honest and courageous in politics. He spoke out often and adopted many opinions.
In the 18th year, he asked to retire due to illness and was appointed as a lieutenant in charge of cavalry. During his tenure, Sun Kan's actions were similar to Zhou Ze's, so the capital's title was Ergui.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
十二年，以泽行司徒事，如真。
泽性简，忽威仪，颇失宰相之望。
数月，复为太常。
清洁循行，尽敬宗庙。
常卧疾斋宫，其妻哀泽老病，窥问所苦。泽大怒，以妻干犯斋禁，遂收送诏狱谢罪。
当世疑其脆激。
时人为之语曰： 生世不谐，作太常妻，一岁三百六十日，三百五十九日斋。
十八年，拜侍中骑都尉。
后数为三老五更。
建初中致仕，卒于家。
钟兴字次文，汝南汝阳人也。
少从少府丁恭受《严氏春秋》。
恭荐兴学行高明，光武召见，问以经义，应对甚明。
帝善之，拜郎中，稍迁左中郎将。
诏令定《春秋》章句，去其复重，以授皇太子。
又使宗室诸侯从兴受章句。
封关内侯。
translation: 
In the twelfth year of Yongping, Zhou Ze was appointed as Situ's deputy, which was equivalent to actual teaching.
Zhou Ze has a simple temperament, does not value dignity and formality, and is not expected to be a prime minister.
Only a few months is too common.
Be honest in government, follow the rules, and respect the ancestral temple.
Often lying in the sick palace, his wife took pity on his old illness and went in to ask him what was wrong with him. Zhou Ze was furious and thought his wife had violated the fasting ban, so he arrested her and sent her to prison to plead guilty.
The world suspected that he pretended to be active.
At that time, I made up a sentence that said: If you are born in a disharmonious life, as a Taichang wife, you must fast for three hundred and sixty days a year and fast for three hundred and fifty-nine days.
In the 18th year of Yongping's reign, he was awarded the title of Captain of Cavalry in Shizhong.
Later, he changed the name of "three old and five" many times.
Jian retired from junior high school and died at home.
◆Zhong Xingzhuan, Zhong Xingzi Wen, a native of Ruyang County, Runan County.
When he was young, he studied "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals" from Shaofu Ding Gong.
Ding Gong recommended that Zhong Xing was good in knowledge and conduct. Guangwu summoned him and asked him about the classics and principles, and his answer was very clear.
Guangwu commended him and awarded him the title of Langzhong, and he was promoted to Zuozhonglangjiang.
The imperial edict was issued to determine the chapters and sentences of the Spring and Autumn Annals, delete duplications, and use them to teach the crown prince.
He also asked the princes of the clan to learn chapters and verses from Zhong Xing.
Seal the customs within the territory.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
兴自以无功，不敢受爵。
帝曰： 生教训太子及诸王侯，非大功邪？
兴曰： 臣师于恭。
于是复封恭，而兴遂固辞不受爵，卒于官。
甄宇字长文，北海安丘人也。
清净少欲。
习《严氏春秋》，教授常数百人。
建武中，为州从事，征拜博士，稍迁太子少傅，卒于官。
传业子普，普传子承。承尤笃学，未尝视家事，讲授常数百人。
诸儒以承三世传业，莫不归服之。
建初中，举孝廉，卒于梁相。
子孙传学不绝。
楼望字次子，陈留雍丘人也。
少习《严氏春秋》。
操节清白，有称乡闾。
建武中，赵节王栩闻其高名，遣使赍玉帛请以为师，望不受。
后仕郡功曹。
永平初，为侍中、越骑校尉，入讲省内。
translation: 
Zhong Xing himself believed that he had no merit and did not dare to be knighted.
The emperor said: "Master taught the prince and the princes a lesson. Isn't this a great achievement?"
Zhong Xing said: My teacher is Ding Gong.
So Ding Gong was granted the title again, but Zhong Xing still resolutely resigned and refused to be knighted. Died in office.
◆The biography of Zhen Yu, a long essay with the character Zhen Yu, was born in Anqiu, Beihai.
Be quiet and self-sufficient, not seeking fame or fortune.
Studying "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals", there are often hundreds of students and professors.
During the Jianwu period, he worked for the prefectures and counties, was recruited and awarded doctors, and was promoted to Prince Shaofu. He died in office.
Zhen Yu passed on his legacy to his son Zhen Pu, who passed it on to his son Zhen Cheng. Cheng was very fond of learning and did not care about housework. He often taught hundreds of apprentices.
Because Zhen inherited the inheritance from three generations, all the Confucian scholars obeyed him.
He built the junior high school and promoted filial piety and integrity. He died when Liang Xiang was appointed.
The descendants continue to pass on their knowledge.
◆Lou Wangzhuan, the second son of Lou Wang, was born in Yongqiu County, Chenliu County.
When he was young, he studied "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals".
He has a clean conduct and is well-known in the village.
In Jianwu, King Xu of Zhaojie heard about his high reputation and sent an envoy to offer him jade and silk to ask him to be his teacher, but Lou Wang refused.
Later he became an official in the county.
In the early years of Yongping, he served as Shizhong and Yueqi Xiaowei, and gave lectures in the palace.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
十六年，迁大司农。
十八年，代周泽为太常。
建初五年，坐事左转太中大夫，后为左中郎将。
教授不倦，世称儒宗，诸生著录九千余人。
年八十，永元十二年，卒于官，门生会葬者数千人，儒家以为荣。
程曾字秀升，豫章南昌人也。
受业长安，习《严氏春秋》，积十余年，还家讲授。会稽顾奉等数百人常居门下。
著书百余篇，皆《五经》通难，又作《孟子章句》。
建初三年，举孝廉，迁海西令，卒于官。
张玄字君夏，河内河阳人也。
少习《颜氏春秋》，兼通数家法。
建武初，举明经，补弘农文学，迁陈仓县丞。
清净无欲，专心经书，方其讲问，乃不食终日。
及有难者，辄为张数家之说，令择从所安，诸儒皆伏其多通，著录千余人。
translation: 
In the 16th year of Yongping's reign, he was promoted to chief minister of agriculture.
In the eighteenth year, Dai Zhouze did too much.
In the fifth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, he was demoted to the rank of Taizhong doctor due to circumstances, and later became Zuo Zhonglang general.
He was tireless in teaching students and was known as the leader of Confucianism in the world, with more than 9,000 students.
In the 80th year of Yongyuan's twelfth year, he died in office. Thousands of students came to pay his respects to him. Confucians considered it an honor.
◆Cheng Zengchuan, courtesy name Xiusheng, was born in Nanchang, Yuzhang.
He studied in Chang'an and studied "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals" for more than ten years. Later he returned home to teach. Hundreds of people including Gu Feng of Kuaiji were his students.
He wrote more than 100 books, all of which are general explanations of the Five Classics, and also "Mencius Chapters".
In the third year of Jianchu's reign, he was promoted to Xiaolian and promoted to Haixi Ling. He died in office.
◆The biography of Zhang Xuan, whose courtesy name is Jun Xia, was born in Heyang, Hanoi.
When he was young, he studied "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals" and mastered several techniques.
In the early days of Jianwu, he cited Ming classics, supplemented Hongnong's literature, and was promoted to Chencang County Cheng.
He was pure and inactive, concentrating on studying the scriptures. When he was teaching, he often did not eat all day long.
When someone discusses a problem with him, he often puts forward the theories of various schools so that he can choose the one he thinks is appropriate. All Confucian scholars admired his erudition, and he had more than a thousand students.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
玄初为县丞，尝以职事对府，不知官曹处，吏白门下责之。
时，右扶风琅邪徐业，亦大儒也，闻玄诸生，试引见之，与语，大惊曰： 今日相遭，真解矇矣！
遂请上堂，难问极日。
后玄去官，举孝廉，除为郎。
会《颜氏》博士缺，玄试策第一，拜为博士。
居数月，诸生上言玄廉说《严氏》、《冥氏》，不宜专为《颜氏》博士。
光武且令还署，未及迁而卒。
李育字元春，扶风漆人也。
少习《公羊春秋》。
沉思专精，博览书传，知名太学，深为同郡班固所重。
固奏记荐育于骠骑将军东平王苍，由是京师贵戚争往交之。
州郡请召，育到，辄辞病去。
常避地教授，门徒数百。
颇涉猎古学。
translation: 
When Zhang Xuanxian was the county magistrate, he once went to the government for work. He didn't know where the officials were, so the officials told his subordinates to reprimand him.
At that time, You Fufeng Langyan Xu Ye was also a great Confucian. Hearing that Zhang Xuan was a living being, he summoned him to try and talk to him. He was shocked and said: "When we meet today, I really understand my ignorance!"
Because he was invited to the court, he debated all day.
Later, Zhang Xuan resigned from the official position, was promoted to be filial and honest, and was awarded the title of Lang.
At that time, there was a shortage of doctors in "Yanshi". Zhang Xuan won the first place in the examination and was awarded the doctorate.
After a few months, all the students came to tell Zhang Xuan that he also talked about "Yan Family" and "Ming Family" and should not specialize in "Yan Family" as a doctor.
Guangwu asked him to return to his post temporarily and die without being promoted.
◆The biography of Li Yu, whose courtesy name was Yuanchun, was from Qixian County, Fufeng County.
I studied "Gongyang Chunqiu" when I was young.
Thoughtful and focused, well-read. He was very famous in Taixue and was highly appreciated by Ban Gu, a fellow county man.
Ban Gu recommended Li Yu to the hussar general Dongping Wang Cang, and all the dignitaries in the capital were vying to make friends with him.
The prefectures and counties asked for summons. After Li Yu arrived, he often resigned due to illness.
He was once a professor in Shendi, and had hundreds of students and disciples.
Also studied ancient science.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
尝读《左氏传》，虽乐文采，然谓不得圣人深意，以为前世陈元、范升之徒更相非折，而多引图谶，不据理体，于是作《难左氏义》四十一事。
建初元年，卫尉马廖举育方正，为议郎。
后拜博士。
四年，诏与诸儒论《五经》于白虎观，育以《公羊》义难贾逵，往返皆有理证，最为通儒。
再迁尚书令。
及马氏废，育坐为所举免归。
岁余复征，再迁侍中，卒于官。
何休字邵公，任城樊人也。
父豹，少府。
休为人质朴讷口，而雅有心思，精研《六经》，世儒无及者。
以列卿子诏拜郎中，非其好也，辞疾而去。
不仕州郡。进退必以礼。
太傅陈蕃辟之，与参政事。
蕃败，休坐废锢，乃作《春秋公羊解诂》，覃思不窥门，十有七年。
translation: 
I once read "Zuo Shi Zhuan". Although I thought the literary style of "Zuo Shi Zhuan" was good, I thought it was not in line with the profound meaning of the saint. In the previous life, Chen Yuan, Fan Sheng and others had many criticisms. They quoted prophecies from illustrations and did not follow the logic, so they wrote forty-one chapters of "Nan Zuo Shi Yi".
In the first year of Jianchu's reign, Weiwei Ma Liao promoted Li Yufangzheng to the post of Yilang.
Later he was awarded a doctorate.
In the fourth year, Li Yu was ordered to discuss the "Five Classics" with other Confucian scholars at Baihu Temple. Li Yu used the meaning of "Gongyang" to argue with Jia Kui.
Then he was promoted to Shangshu Order.
When Ma was deposed, Li Yu was dismissed from office and returned home because he was promoted by Ma Liao.
After more than a year, he conquered again, was promoted to a servant, and died in office.
◆He Xiu's biography, He Xiu's courtesy name is Shaogong, and he was a native of Fan County, Rencheng County.
His father served as Shaofu.
He Xiu was a simple man and stammered in speech, but he had profound thoughts and studied the Six Classics intensively. No Confucian scholar at that time could catch up with him.
Because he was the son of a minister, he was not liked by the doctor, so he left in a hurry.
If you are not an official in a state or county, everything you say and do must be in line with etiquette.
Grand Tutor Chen Fan recruited him to participate in political affairs.
Chen Fan failed, so he was convicted and deposed, and he was prohibited from serving as an official. So he wrote "Spring and Autumn Gongyang Exegesis", meditated deeply, and did not leave the house for seventeen years.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
又注训《孝经》、《论语》、风角七分，皆经纬典谟，不与守文同说。
又以《春秋》驳汉事六百余条，妙得《公羊》本意。
休善历算，与其师博士羊弼，追述李育意以难二传，作《公羊墨守》、《左氏膏肓》、《穀梁废疾》。
党禁解，又辟司徒。
群公表休道术深明，宜侍帷幄，单臣不悦之，乃拜议郎，屡陈忠言。再迁谏议大夫，年五十四，光和五年卒。
服虔字子慎，初名重，又名祇，后改为虔，河南荥阳人也。
少以清苦建志，入太学受业。
有雅才，善著文论，作《春秋左氏传解》，行之至今。
又以《左传》驳何休之所驳汉事六十条。
举孝廉，稍迁，中平末，拜九江太守。
免，遭乱行客，病卒。
所著赋、碑、诔、书记、《连珠》、《九愤》，凡十余篇。
translation: 
There are also annotations and textual researches on "The Classic of Filial Piety", "The Analects of Confucius", and "Feng Jiao Qi Fen", which are all full of references and do not stick to words.
He also used "Spring and Autumn" to refute more than 600 articles about Han Dynasty affairs, which wonderfully captured the original meaning of "Gongyang".
He Xiu was also good at calculus, and together with his teacher, Dr. Yang Bi, he supplemented Li Yu's thoughts and wrote "Gongyang Mo Shou", "Zuo Shi's Late Death", and "Gu Liang Failed Disease".
The party ban was lifted and Situ was recruited.
The princes of the group expressed that He Xiu had profound Taoism and should participate in the war and make suggestions. The flattering ministers were not happy with him, so he was appointed as an advisor. He made many loyal suggestions and was promoted to an admonishment official. He died in the fifth year of Guanghe at the age of fifty-four.
◆Fu Qianzhuan, Fu Qian's courtesy name is Zishen. His first name was Zhong, also known as Zhi, and later changed to Qian. He was from Rongyang, Henan.
When he was young, he worked hard and determined to study in Imperial College.
He was talented and good at writing articles. He wrote "The Chun Qiu Zuo Shi Zhuan Jie", which is popular up to now.
He also used "Zuo Zhuan" to refute the sixty articles on Han affairs refuted by He Xiu.
Due to his filial piety and integrity, he was promoted slightly, and in the last years of Zhongping, he was awarded the title of Governor of Jiujiang.
After he was dismissed from office, he was involved in chaos and died of illness on the road.
He has written more than ten articles in total, including fu, stele, edict, secretary, "Lianzhu" and "Nine Indignations".


Chunk 18: 
original: 
颍容字子严，陈国长平人也。
博学多通，善《春秋左氏》，师傅太尉杨赐。
郡举孝廉，州辟，公车征，皆不就。
初平中，避乱荆州，聚徒千余人。
刘表以为武陵太守，不肯起。
著《春秋左氏条例》五万余言，建安中卒。
谢该字文仪，南阳章陵人也。
善明《春秋左氏》，为世名儒，门徒数百千人。
建安中，河东人乐详条《左氏》疑滞数十事以问，该皆为通解之，名为《谢氏释》，行于世。
仕为公车司马令，以父母老，托病去官。
欲归乡里，会荆州道断，不得去。
少府孔融上书荐之曰：臣闻高祖创业，韩、彭之将征讨暴乱，陆贾、叔孙通进说《诗》、《书》。
光武中兴，吴、耿佐命，范升、卫宏修述旧业，故能文武并用，成长久之计。
translation: 
◆The biography of Yingrong, whose courtesy name is Ziyan, was born in Changping County, Chen State.
He was erudite and proficient in the biography of Zuo Shi in the Spring and Autumn Period. He worshiped Taiwei Yang Ci as his teacher.
The county promoted him as Xiaolian, the state recruited him, and he was recruited by public transport, but he was not accepted.
In Chupingzhong, he avoided chaos in Jingzhou and gathered more than a thousand disciples.
Liu Biao was appointed as the prefect of Wuling but refused to go.
He wrote more than 50,000 words of "The Regulations of the Zuo Family in the Spring and Autumn Period" and died in Jian'an.
◆Xie Gaizhuan, Xie Gaizhiwenyi, was from Zhangling, Nanyang.
He was familiar with "Chun Qiu Zuo Shi" and was a famous Confucian scholar at that time with hundreds of disciples.
During the Jian'an period, people from Hedong were happy to write detailed notes on "Zuo's" and asked Xie Gai about dozens of difficult things. Gai gave him explanations one by one, which was called "Xie's Interpretation" and became popular in society.
He was employed as a carriage commander, but because his parents were old, he resigned due to illness.
I wanted to return to my hometown, but the road in Jingzhou was blocked, so I couldn't go.
Kong Rong, the Shaofu, wrote a letter recommending him: I heard that Emperor Gaozu created great achievements, Han Xin and Peng Yue conquered riots, and Lu Jia and Shusun Tongjin wrote the "Book of Poems".
Guangwu Zhongxing, Wu and Geng assisted, Fan Sheng and Wei Hong talked about the old business of poetry and calligraphy, so they were able to use both civil and military forces, which became a long-term peace and stability plan.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
陛下圣德钦明，同符二祖，劳谦厄运，三年乃讙。
今尚父鹰扬，方叔翰飞，王师电鸷，群凶破殄，始有橐弓卧鼓之次，宜得名儒，典综礼纪。
今该实卓然比迹前列，间以父母老疾，弃官欲归，道路险塞，无自由致。
猥使良才抱朴而逃，逾越山河，沉沦荆楚，所谓往而不反者也。
后日当更馈乐以钓由余，克像以求傅说，岂不烦哉？
臣愚以为可推录所在，召该令还。
楚人止孙卿之去国，汉朝追匡衡于平原，尊儒贵学，惜失贤也。
书奏，诏即征还，拜议郎。
以寿终。建武中，郑兴、陈元传《春秋左氏》学。
时尚书令韩歆上疏，欲为《左氏》立博士，范升与歆争之未决，陈元上书讼《左氏》，遂以魏郡李封为《左氏》博士。
后群儒蔽固者数廷争之。
及封卒，光武重违众议，而因不复补。
许慎字叔重，汝南召陵人也。
性淳笃，少博学经籍，马融常推敬之，时人为之语曰： 《五经》无双许叔重。
为郡功曹，举孝廉，再迁除洨长。
translation: 
The emperor's holy virtue is pure and clear, just like the second ancestor. He has suffered from misfortune but has been happy for three years.
Today, my father's eagle is flying, Uncle Fang's Han is flying, and Master Wang's electric bird of prey has been destroyed. The world is at peace and there is no need for conquest. Instead, we should visit famous scholars to take charge of etiquette and discipline.
I think that Xie Gai, the former chariot commander, has the good temperament of Zeng Shen and Shi Yu, as well as the literature of Bu Gao and Yan Yan. He is well-versed in books, and has read all the ancient and modern classics. He can handle problems with ease, has no doubts, has a clean character, has extraordinary ethics, and loves the ancient roads.
There are few who can match him, near or far. Now Xie Gai wanted to resign and go home because his parents were old and sick, but the road was difficult and he couldn't return home. He made the talented people flee with Pu Pu, crossed the mountains and rivers, and fell into Jingchu, never to return.
From now on, it would be troublesome to give away female musicians to lure Yu Yu, and to engrave statues to ask for help from Fu, wouldn't it be troublesome?
I thought I wanted to find where Xie Gei was and call him back.
The Chu State prevented Sun Qing from leaving the country, and the Han Dynasty pursued Kuang Heng in the plains, respecting Confucianism and learning, for fear of losing talented people!
In the book, he was ordered to be summoned and returned, and he was awarded the title of Yilang. He died of old age.
In Jianwu Zhong, Zheng Xing and Chen Yuan studied Chunqiu Zuoshi.
At that time, Han Xin was ordered by the Ministry of Finance to write a letter to establish a doctor for "Zuo Shi". Fan Sheng and Han Xin could not decide, so Chen Yuan wrote a letter praising "Zuo Shi" and named Li Feng of Wei County as a doctor of "Zuo Shi".
Later, those shallow and stubborn people among the Confucian scholars argued many times in the court.
After Li Feng's death, Guangwu finally violated everyone's opinions and stopped filling the doctorate.
◆The biography of Xu Shen, named Shuzhong, was from Zhaoling, Runan County.
He has a simple and honest personality. When he was young, he studied scriptures extensively. Ma Rong often praised and respected him. People at that time praised him and said: Xu Shuzhong's research on the Five Classics is unparalleled in the world.
He served as a meritorious officer in the county and was promoted to Xiaolian. He was promoted again and appointed as the county magistrate of Lujiao.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
卒于家。
初，慎以《五经》传说臧否不同，于是撰为《五经异义》，又作《说文解字》十四篇，皆传于世。
蔡玄字叔陵，汝南南顿人也。
学通《五经》，门徒堂千人，其著录者万六千人。
征辟并不就。
顺帝特诏征拜议郎，讲论《五经》异同，甚合帝意。
迁侍中，出为弘农太守，卒官。
论曰：自光武中年以后，干戈稍戢，专事经学，自是其风世笃焉。
其服儒衣，称先王，游庠序，聚横塾者，盖布之于邦域矣。
若乃经生所处，不远万里之路，精庐暂建，赢粮动有千百，其耆名高义开门受徒者，编牒不下万人，皆专相传祖，莫或讹杂。
至有分争王庭，树朋私里，繁其章条，穿求崖穴，以合一家之说。
故杨雄曰： 今之学者，非独为之华藻，又从而绣其鞶帨。
translation: 
Die at home.
First, Xu Shen believed that there were good and bad interpretations of the Five Classics, so he wrote "The Different Meanings of the Five Classics" and 14 chapters of "Shuowen Jiezi", both of which have been handed down to the world.
◆Cai Xuan's biography, Cai Xuan's courtesy name Shuling, was from Nanton, Runan County.
Having learned the Five Classics well, there are often more than a thousand disciples, and there are 16,000 registered disciples.
Even conquest and expansion are not enough.
During the reign of Emperor Shun, he specially ordered Yilang to discuss the similarities and differences of the Five Classics, which was in line with Emperor Shun's wishes.
When he was promoted to minister, he became the prefect of Hongnong and died in office.
Historians commented: After Guangwu became middle-aged, he used fewer troops and focused on Confucian classics. From then on, the social atmosphere gradually became simpler.
Those who wear Confucian clothes, talk about the morals of the previous kings, travel around the countryside, and gather in private lecture houses all over the country.
As for the place where the doctor is located, there are people who have traveled thousands of miles to carry food and live in exquisite houses, often in the thousands. Those famous scholars who have opened their doors to teach disciples have no less than ten thousand students on the list. They are all professional professors and there are no errors or impure heresies.
Some even argue in the court, form cliques in private, formulate complicated regulations, and visit hermits in caves to formulate a family's doctrine.
That’s why Yang Xiong said: Today’s scholars are not only eloquent, but also a little frustrated.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
夫书理无二，义归有宗，而硕学之徒，莫之或徙，故通人鄙其固焉，又雄所谓 譊々之学，各习其师 也。
且观成名高第，终能远至者，盖亦寡焉，而迂滞若是矣。
然所谈者仁义，所传者圣法也。
故人识君臣父子之纲，家知违邪归正之路。
自桓、灵之间，君道秕僻，朝纲日陵，国隙屡启，自中智以下，靡不审其崩离；而权强之臣，息其窥盗之谋，豪俊之夫，屈于鄙生之议者，人诵先王言也，下畏逆顺势也。
至如张温、皇甫嵩之徒，功定天下之半，声驰四海之表，俯仰顾眄，则天业可移，犹鞠躬昏主之下，狼狈折札之命，散成兵，就绳约，而无悔心，暨乎剥桡自极，人神数尽，然后群英乘其运，世德终其祚。
迹衰敝之所由致，而能多历年所者，斯岂非学之效乎？
故先师垂典文，褒励学者之功，笃矣切矣。
不循《春秋》，至乃比于杀逆，其将有意乎！
translation: 
Originally, there was only one principle of books, which meant unity. People who are well-educated cannot change, so ordinary people despised them for being stubborn, and Yang Xiong said that all the noisy knowledge was learned from teachers.
And to become famous, not many people really come from far away. It's so ignorant and unintelligible.
But what they talk about is benevolence and righteousness, and what they teach is the method of saints.
Therefore, everyone knows the outline of king, minister, father and son, and every family knows the way to return from evil to righteousness.
During the reigns of Emperors Huan and Ling, the monarch's education was corrupted, the discipline of the court was weakening day by day, the country was in constant chaos, and no one with average intelligence or above knew that the country was falling apart and it was difficult to maintain it. But the powerful ministers who hold the power have no conspiracy to usurp the throne, and the heroes and nobles succumb to the opinions of the despicable people. This is because everyone recites the words of the late king, and the subordinates are afraid of rebellion and obey the situation.
As for disciples like Zhang Wen and Huangfu Song, they have made great contributions to half of the world, and their prestige spreads far and wide. They look up and look forward to their great achievements, but they still devote themselves to the faint master. When Han Zuo died, the gods and men were all gone, and then the heroes of the world rose up together, and Cao Pi succeeded to the throne.
Isn't it the merit of Confucianism to find out the reasons for the decline but still delay it for such a long time?
Therefore, it is not accidental that the merits of scholars are commended in the classics of ancient teachers. Its significance is extremely far-reaching.
Disobeying the Spring and Autumn Annals is a crime of murder and death. What an important thought this is.


