Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 0, 11, 13, 18]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
史臣曰：昔者乘云效驾，卷领垂衣，则黄帝皁衣纁裳，放勋彤车白马，叶三微之序，舍寅丑之建，玄戈玉刃，作会相晖。
若乃参旗分景，帝车含曜，又所以营卫南宫，增华北极。
《月令》季夏之月， 命妇官染彩 ，赪丹班次，各有品章矣。
高旗有日月之象，式视有威仪之选，衣兼鞙珮，衡载鸣和，是以闲邪屏弃，不可入也。
若乃正名百物，补缉四维，疏怀山之水，静倾天之害，功尤彰者饰弥焕，德愈盛者服弥尊，莫不质良，用成其美。
《书》曰： 明试以功，车服以庸。
《礼记》曰： 鸾车，有虞氏之路也。
钩车，夏后氏之路也。
大路，殷路也。
乘路，周路也。
而韨火山龙，以通其意。
前史以为，圣人见鸟兽容貌，草木英华，始创衣冠，而玄黄殊采；见秋蓬孤转，杓觿旁建，乃作舆轮，而方圆异则。
遇物成象，触类兴端。周因于殷，其来已旧。
成王之会，坛垂阴羽，五方之盛，有八十物者焉。
宗马鸟旌，奚往不格，殷公、曹叔，此焉低首。
《周礼》，巾车氏建大赤以朝，大白以戎。
雅制弘多，式遵遗范，宾入异宪，师行殊则，是以有严有翼，用光其武，钩膺鞗革，乃暢其文。
六服之冕，五时之路，王之常制，各有等差。
逮礼业雕讹，人情驰爽，诸侯征伐，宪度沦亡，一紫乱于齐饰，长缨混于邹玩。
translation: 
Shi Chen said: Since ancient times, there have been gods riding on vehicles made of clouds while servants tested the vehicles for their masters. There have also been incidents of ancestors wearing roll-neck clothes or grown-up clothes. Therefore, the Yellow Emperor had a black top and light red lower clothes, and Fang Xun had a vermilion chariot and white horses. They were in harmony with the calendar of the Three Zhengs, and the calendar of Jian Yin and Jian Chou was set, and the Xuan Ge Jade Blade complemented each other.
As for the flags sharing the brilliance of the sun, moon and stars, the imperial chariot shone brightly and was used to protect the Nangong and add glory to the North Pole.
The "Moon Order" mentions that in the third month of summer, women officials are ordered to dye colored satin, with different shades of red and red, each with certain standards.
The high-flying flag has the image of the sun and the moon, attracting everyone's attention and possessing supreme majesty. The clothes are adorned with jade ornaments, and the bells on the scales of the carriage ring. Therefore, all evil thoughts are abandoned and are not affected.
As for rectifying the names of all things, revising laws and regulations, eliminating catastrophic disasters such as floods and mountains, and solving disasters like the collapse of the sky and the earth, the clothes of people with particularly outstanding achievements will be more glorious, and the clothes of people with great virtues will be more noble. They are all made of fine quality and are used to fulfill their beautiful virtues.
"Shangshu" says: Judge fairly based on merit, and reward meritorious officials with carriages, horses and clothing.
"Book of Rites" says: Luan chariot is the chariot owned by the Yu family.
The hook cart is Xia Hou's carriage.
Dajiao is the seat of the emperor of the Yin Dynasty.
Chengge is the vehicle used by the emperors of the Zhou Dynasty.
The patterns on the clothes such as the volcano, dragon, etc. are used to express the same meaning.
History books of the previous generation believe that the saints saw the appearance of birds and animals, and the flowers of grass and trees, so they created clothes and hats, with different colors such as black and yellow; they saw the basil blown by the wind in autumn and the appearance of the scales of the Big Dipper, so they created carriage wheels with different square and round shapes.
The formation of a new image when encountering a certain object, and the creation of creative ideas when touching a certain thing have a long history from the Zhou Dynasty to the Yin Dynasty.
In King Sheng's alliance, the altar was decorated with light black crane feathers, and five parties gathered together, with a total of eighty items.
Zong Ma and Bird Banner imitate natural things everywhere. Duke Yin and Uncle Cao bowed their heads here.
According to the "Book of Rites of Zhou", Jinche's tree Dachi was used for court meetings, and the Dabai tree was used for military affairs.
There are many elegant systems, all of which follow the models left by the previous generations. There are different rules for welcoming guests, and there are related systems for leaving the army. Therefore, they are both solemn and prioritized. They use it to promote their career. They are decorated with stripes and patterns as much as possible.
Crowns in different places, chariots and horses at different times, each have different regulations in the king's regular system.
When the etiquette system declined and became disordered, human relations were not restrained, the princes conquered each other, and the laws declined and disappeared, a kind of purple confused the clothes of Qi State, and a kind of long tassel made Zou State indistinguishable.

summary:
summary line 0: A detailed historical account of chariots, clothing, and ceremonial regalia from ancient times through the Jin Dynasty, emphasizing their symbolic and functional roles in governance, ritual, and social hierarchy. Since antiquity, gods and ancestors used specific vehicles and attire, such as the Yellow Emperor’s black top and light red lower clothes, and Fang Xun’s vermilion chariot with white horses, aligning with calendrical systems. The "Moon Order" describes women dyeing satin in regulated shades, while flags bearing sun and moon images and jade-adorned garments were meant to inspire awe and suppress evil. The text cites classical texts like "Shangshu" and "Book of Rites" to justify rewarding merit with chariots and clothing, and notes that saints derived designs from nature, such as birds and plants, for garments and wheels.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
孔子曰： 君子其学也博，其服也乡。
若乃豪杰不经，庶人干典，彯鹬冠于郑伯之门，蹑珠履于春申之第。
及秦皇并国，揽其余轨，丰貂东至，獬豸南来，又有玄旗皁旒之制，旄头罕车之饰，写九王之廷于咸阳北坂，车舆之彩，各树其文，所谓秦人大备，而陈战国之后车者也。
及凝脂布网，经书咸烬，削灭三代，以金根为帝轸，除弃六冕，以袀玄为祭服。
高祖入关，既因秦制。
世宗挺英雄之略，总文景之资，扬霓拂翳，皮轩记鼓，横汾河而祠后土，登甘泉而祭昊天，奉常献仪，谓之大驾，车千乘而骑万匹。
至于成帝，以幸姬赵飞燕置属车间豹尾中，又杨雄所谓彏天狼之威弧，张曜日之灵旄，骈罗列布，雾集云合者也。
于后王氏擅朝，武车常轫，赤眉之乱，文物无遗。
建武十三年，吴汉平蜀，始送葆车舆辇，充庭之饰，渐以周备。
明帝采《周官》、《礼记》，更服衮章，天子冠通天而佩玉玺。
魏明以黼黻之美，有疑于僭，于是随章傧略，而捐者半焉。
高堂隆奏曰： 改正朔、殊徽号者，帝王所以神明其政，变民耳目也。
帝从其议，改青龙五年为景初元年，服色尚黄，从地正也。
世祖武皇帝接天人之贶，开典午之基，受终之礼，皆如唐虞故事。
晋氏金行，而服色尚赤，岂有司失其传欤！
玉、金、象、革、木等路，是为五路，并天子之法车，皆硃班漆轮，画为虡文。
三十幅，法月之数；重毂，贰辖，以赤油，广八寸，长三尺，注地，系两轴头，谓之飞軨。
translation: 
Confucius said: A gentleman's knowledge should be extensive, and his clothing should be consistent with his status.
As for the powerful people who did not abide by the laws, the common people violated the laws and regulations, wore snipe crowns to show off in front of Uncle Zheng's gate, and wore beads and shoes in and out of Zhou Shigan's mansion.
Until the Tongsi Emperor annexed various countries, inherited their practices, collected fertile mink from the east and Xie Zhi from the south, made Xuanqi Zaoqi, decorated the carriages, and imitated the palaces of the princes of various countries in Beiban, Xianyang.
When the French net is denser than grease and all the scriptures are burned to ashes, the influence of the three cuts is eliminated, the golden root chariot is used as the emperor's chariot, the six crowns are discarded, and Gou Xuan is used as the sacrificial robe.
After Emperor Gaozu entered the customs, he followed the system of Taiwan.
Emperor Shizong had great talents and great plans, and inherited the achievements of Emperor Wen and Emperor Jing. The neon banners fluttered on the canopy, and Pi Xuan advanced to the sound of drums. He crossed the Fen River to go to the temple to offer sacrifices to his ancestors, climbed to the sweet spring to offer sacrifices to Haotian, and often offered rituals and regulations, which were called great drives. He had thousands of vehicles and thousands of horses.
When he arrived at the Sheng Emperor, he let his favored concubine Zhao Feiyan sit in the leopard-tailed chariot in his chariot. As Yang Xiong said, he stretched out his majestic flag bow like a wolf, and stretched out his dazzling souls like the sun. They walked in pairs, like mist and clouds.
Since then, the Wang family has taken sole control of the government, and wars have continued. Especially after the Chimei Rebellion, all cultural relics were destroyed.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, when Wu Han pacified Shu, Bao chariots and chariots were sent to enrich the court's various ceremonial decorations and gradually complete them.
Emperor Ming formulated the costumes according to "Zhou Guan" and "Book of Rites", and the emperor wore a crown and a jade seal.
Emperor Wei Ming thought that the rich and beautiful fur was akin to transgression, so he reduced it according to the decoration and removed half of it.
Gao Tanglong said: The reason for changing Zhengshuo and using different emblems is because the emperor wanted to make his political power consistent with the gods and change the people's impression.
The emperor listened to his advice and changed the fifth year of Qinglong to the first year of Jingchu. The color of clothes was yellow, which was the correct color for obedience.
Emperor Shi Zuwu inherited the gift from heaven and man, established the foundation of the Sima family, and performed the etiquette of accepting the abdication of the throne, completely imitating the practices of Tang Yao and Yu Shun.
The Jin family belongs to the gold industry, but the color of their clothing is red. Could it be that the relevant departments do not understand the rules passed down from ancient times!
Jade, gold, elephant, leather, wood and other chariots are called "five chariots". They are all the emperor's ceremonial chariots. They are all painted with vermilion painted wheels and painted with deer heads and dragon bodies.
Thirty spokes, imitating the number of days in a month; two hubs with double jurisdiction. A red oilcloth eight inches wide and three feet long is tied to both ends of the axle and dragged straight to the ground, which is called "Feiou".

summary:
summary line 1: The narrative traces the evolution of these systems through dynasties. During the Zhou and Yin periods, creative designs emerged, but later, as ritual order declined, princes violated norms, leading to confusion like purple garments in Qi and long tassels in Zou. Confucius advocated for clothing matching status. The Qin Dynasty unified practices, collecting furs and decorating chariots, but burned texts and simplified regalia. Emperor Gaozu followed Qin systems, while Emperor Shizong expanded ceremonies with grand processions. However, later rulers like Emperor Sheng favored concubines, and the Wang family’s dominance led to war and destruction of artifacts. After the Chimei Rebellion, Emperor Ming restored costumes based on "Zhou Guan" and "Book of Rites," and Emperor Wei Ming reduced lavish furs. Gao Tanglong advised changing Zhengshuo to align with gods, leading to yellow as the dominant color in the Jingchu era.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
史臣曰：昔者乘云效驾，卷领垂衣，则黄帝皁衣纁裳，放勋彤车白马，叶三微之序，舍寅丑之建，玄戈玉刃，作会相晖。
若乃参旗分景，帝车含曜，又所以营卫南宫，增华北极。
《月令》季夏之月， 命妇官染彩 ，赪丹班次，各有品章矣。
高旗有日月之象，式视有威仪之选，衣兼鞙珮，衡载鸣和，是以闲邪屏弃，不可入也。
若乃正名百物，补缉四维，疏怀山之水，静倾天之害，功尤彰者饰弥焕，德愈盛者服弥尊，莫不质良，用成其美。
《书》曰： 明试以功，车服以庸。
《礼记》曰： 鸾车，有虞氏之路也。
钩车，夏后氏之路也。
大路，殷路也。
乘路，周路也。
而韨火山龙，以通其意。
前史以为，圣人见鸟兽容貌，草木英华，始创衣冠，而玄黄殊采；见秋蓬孤转，杓觿旁建，乃作舆轮，而方圆异则。
遇物成象，触类兴端。周因于殷，其来已旧。
成王之会，坛垂阴羽，五方之盛，有八十物者焉。
宗马鸟旌，奚往不格，殷公、曹叔，此焉低首。
《周礼》，巾车氏建大赤以朝，大白以戎。
雅制弘多，式遵遗范，宾入异宪，师行殊则，是以有严有翼，用光其武，钩膺鞗革，乃暢其文。
六服之冕，五时之路，王之常制，各有等差。
逮礼业雕讹，人情驰爽，诸侯征伐，宪度沦亡，一紫乱于齐饰，长缨混于邹玩。
translation: 
Shi Chen said: Since ancient times, there have been gods riding on vehicles made of clouds while servants tested the vehicles for their masters. There have also been incidents of ancestors wearing roll-neck clothes or grown-up clothes. Therefore, the Yellow Emperor had a black top and light red lower clothes, and Fang Xun had a vermilion chariot and white horses. They were in harmony with the calendar of the Three Zhengs, and the calendar of Jian Yin and Jian Chou was set, and the Xuan Ge Jade Blade complemented each other.
As for the flags sharing the brilliance of the sun, moon and stars, the imperial chariot shone brightly and was used to protect the Nangong and add glory to the North Pole.
The "Moon Order" mentions that in the third month of summer, women officials are ordered to dye colored satin, with different shades of red and red, each with certain standards.
The high-flying flag has the image of the sun and the moon, attracting everyone's attention and possessing supreme majesty. The clothes are adorned with jade ornaments, and the bells on the scales of the carriage ring. Therefore, all evil thoughts are abandoned and are not affected.
As for rectifying the names of all things, revising laws and regulations, eliminating catastrophic disasters such as floods and mountains, and solving disasters like the collapse of the sky and the earth, the clothes of people with particularly outstanding achievements will be more glorious, and the clothes of people with great virtues will be more noble. They are all made of fine quality and are used to fulfill their beautiful virtues.
"Shangshu" says: Judge fairly based on merit, and reward meritorious officials with carriages, horses and clothing.
"Book of Rites" says: Luan chariot is the chariot owned by the Yu family.
The hook cart is Xia Hou's carriage.
Dajiao is the seat of the emperor of the Yin Dynasty.
Chengge is the vehicle used by the emperors of the Zhou Dynasty.
The patterns on the clothes such as the volcano, dragon, etc. are used to express the same meaning.
History books of the previous generation believe that the saints saw the appearance of birds and animals, and the flowers of grass and trees, so they created clothes and hats, with different colors such as black and yellow; they saw the basil blown by the wind in autumn and the appearance of the scales of the Big Dipper, so they created carriage wheels with different square and round shapes.
The formation of a new image when encountering a certain object, and the creation of creative ideas when touching a certain thing have a long history from the Zhou Dynasty to the Yin Dynasty.
In King Sheng's alliance, the altar was decorated with light black crane feathers, and five parties gathered together, with a total of eighty items.
Zong Ma and Bird Banner imitate natural things everywhere. Duke Yin and Uncle Cao bowed their heads here.
According to the "Book of Rites of Zhou", Jinche's tree Dachi was used for court meetings, and the Dabai tree was used for military affairs.
There are many elegant systems, all of which follow the models left by the previous generations. There are different rules for welcoming guests, and there are related systems for leaving the army. Therefore, they are both solemn and prioritized. They use it to promote their career. They are decorated with stripes and patterns as much as possible.
Crowns in different places, chariots and horses at different times, each have different regulations in the king's regular system.
When the etiquette system declined and became disordered, human relations were not restrained, the princes conquered each other, and the laws declined and disappeared, a kind of purple confused the clothes of Qi State, and a kind of long tassel made Zou State indistinguishable.

summary:
summary line 2: The text details specific chariot types, such as the "five chariots" (jade, gold, elephant, leather, wood), each with distinct decorations and uses. The jade chariot, most noble, featured a Taichang flag with twelve strands for sky worship. The golden chariot had nine strands for guests, the elephant chariot was plain red for court, the leather chariot was for military campaigns, and the wood chariot for hunting. Chariots were drawn by horses with elaborate trappings, including gold ornaments, bells, and jade fittings. The emperor’s ceremonial procession included various vehicles like the Sinan chariot (a compass guide), drum cart (measuring distance), and sheep cart, each with specific functions. The text also describes the Five Oxen Flag, plowing cart, and hunting cart, noting changes in color and flags under different rulers, such as Wei Jingchu’s shift to yellow and white.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
其庙见小驾，则乘紫罽軿车，云虡画辀，黄金涂五采，驾三。
非法驾则皇太后乘辇，皇后乘画轮车。
皇后先蚕，乘油画云母安车，驾六騩马；騩，浅黑色。
油画两辕安车，驾五騩马，为副。
又，金薄石山軿、紫绛罽軿车，皆驾三騩马，为副。
女旄头十二人，持棨戟二人，共载安车，俪驾。
女尚辇十二人，乘辎车，俪驾。
女长御八人，乘安车，俪驾。
三夫人油軿车，驾两马，左騑。
其贵人驾节画辀。
三夫人助蚕，乘青交路，安车，驾三，皆以紫绛罽軿车。
九嫔世妇乘軿车，驾三。
长公主赤罽軿车，驾两马。
公主、王太妃、王妃，皆油軿车，驾两马，右騑。
公主油画安车，驾三，青交路，以紫绛罽軿车驾三为副，王太妃、三夫人亦如之。
公主助蚕，乘油画安车，驾三。
公主有先置者，乘青交路安车，驾三。
诸王妃、公太夫人、夫人、县乡君、诸郡公侯特进夫人助蚕，乘皁交路安车，驾三。
诸侯监国世子之世妇、侍中常侍尚书中书监令卿校世妇、命妇助蚕，乘皁交路安车，俪驾。
郡县公侯、中二千石、二千石夫人会朝及蚕，各乘其夫之安车，皆右騑，皁交路，皁帷裳。
自非公会则不得乘轺车，止乘漆布辎軿，铜五采而已。
王妃、特进夫人、封郡君，安车，驾三，皁交路。
封县乡君油軿车，驾两马，右騑。
自过江之后，旧章多缺。
元帝践极，始造大路、戎路各一，皆即古金根之制也，无复充庭之仪。
至于郊祀大事，则权饰余车以周用。
六师亲征则用戎路，去其盖而乘之，属车但五乘而已。
加绿油幢，硃丝路，饰青交路，黄金涂五采，其轮毂犹素，两箱无金锦之饰。
其一车又是轺车，旧仪，天子所乘驾六，是时无复六马之乘，五路皆驾四而已，同用黑，是为玄牡。
无复五时车，有事则权以马车代之，建旗其上。
其后但以五色木牛象五时车，竖旗于牛背，行则使人舆之。
牛之义，盖取其负重致远安而稳也。
旗常缠而不舒旆，所谓德车结旌者也。
translation: 
If it is a young driver who meets in the temple, he will ride a purple kitchen plow cart with cloud patterns and deer-headed dragon patterns painted on the axle, painted with gold, and drive three horses.
If it is not the Dharma chariot, then the Empress Dowager rides the chariot, and the Empress rides the wheel cart.
The Queen worshiped the Silkworm God, riding on a mica chariot painted with oil paint and driving six horses; Xiao, light black.
The chariot is mounted with two shafts and painted with oil paint, and is driven by five Wei horses as auxiliary chariots.
In addition, there are Jin Boshi mountain plowing and Zijiang kitchen plowing carts, both of which drive three galloping horses as auxiliary carts.
Twelve women holding daggers and two holding honorary halberds rode together on the chariot, forming two rows.
Twelve women rode in the chariot, forming two rows.
Eight women, long chariots, formed two rows in safe chariots.
The third lady rode an oil plow cart and drove two horses, with a left Philip.
If you are a noble person, you can draw a scroll.
When the three ladies were assisting in worshiping the Silkworm God, they took a green road, installed a carriage, and drove three horses, all using purple kitchen plow carts.
The wife of the ninth concubine rides on a plow cart and drives three horses.
The eldest princess used a red kitchen plow cart and two horses.
The princess, the princess, and the princess all use oil carts and drive two horses, with a stallion on the right.
The princess used an oil-painted carriage with three horses and a green road, and a purple kitchen plow cart with three horses as a secondary carriage. The same was true for the princess and the third lady.
The princess assisted in the silkworm sacrifice ceremony, riding in an oil-painted carriage and driving three horses.
The princess, who was in the lead, took a carriage on Qingjiao Road and drove three horses.
The princesses, concubines, wives, county and township monarchs, and the wives of the princes and marquises of each county assisted in the silkworm sacrifice ceremony. They took a Zaojiao road and installed a carriage and drove three horses.
The wives of the crown princes of the feudal lords and governors of the country, the wives of the ministers, the ministers, the secretary, the secretary, the supervisor, the ministers, and the school, etc., assisted in the silkworm sacrifice ceremony. They took the Zaojiao road and installed the carriage, divided into two rows.
The princes of counties and counties, the wives of Zhong Erqianshi and Erqianshi attended court and participated in silkworm sacrifices. They each rode in their husbands' carriages, with right-hand horses, soap-colored roads and soap-colored curtains.
If it is not for official gatherings, you cannot take the court carriage, and you can only ride on the oilcloth plowing carriage and use copper and five kinds of materials.
The princess, Mrs. Tejin, the Duke of Feng County, etc., drove three horses in an carriage and crossed the road in white color.
The king of Feng County and Township used an oil plow cart and drove two horses, one of which was a right-hand horse.
Since the Liao Dynasty, most of the old regulations have been lost.
After Yuantong came to the throne, one car each for the main road and the military road was built. They were all of the specifications of the ancient golden root chariots, and there was no longer the grand occasion of filling the court.
Whenever there are important events such as suburban sacrifices, other cars are temporarily decorated for use.
When he led the Sixth Army on an expedition, he used the military road and took off its car cover to ride on it. There were only five cars for his entourage.
The car has green oil pillars, vermilion silk, decorated with cyan roads, and is painted with gold. The wheels of the car are still plain color, and the carriages on both sides are not decorated with gold and brocade.
One of the cars was heading towards the car again. In the old days, the emperor's chariot had six horses. At this time, there were no six-horse chariots. The five chariots all had only four horses. They also used black horses and were called Xuanmu.
There are no longer five-hour carriages. When necessary, they are replaced by horse-drawn carriages and flags are planted on them.
From now on, only five-color wooden oxen were used to symbolize the five o'clock carts, flags were erected on the backs of the oxen, and people were sent to load them in carts when traveling.
The reason for using oxen is that they can carry heavy loads for long distances and are stable.
The flag is often entangled and not allowed to fly, which is the so-called German car knot flag.

summary:
summary line 3: The account continues with the emperor’s travel sequence, listing dozens of vehicles and officials in a strict order, from the elephant chariot and drummers to the golden root chariot and imperial guards. This procession included multiple ranks of officials, cavalry, and ceremonial items like flags, halberds, and drums. The text notes that after the Liao Dynasty, many old regulations were lost, and by the Yuantong era, only a few chariots remained, with temporary decorations for sacrifices. The compass and other chariots were rediscovered later, such as Liu Yu finding the Sinan chariot in the 13th year of Yixi. The crown prince’s chariot and the empress dowager’s golden root chariot are also described, with specific rules for women’s vehicles, such as the queen’s mica chariot for silkworm worship.

Chunk 13: 
original: 
魏明帝以公卿衮衣黼黻之饰，疑于至尊，多所减损，始制天子服刺绣文，公卿服织成文。
及晋受命，遵而无改。
天子郊祀天地明堂宗庙，元会临轩，黑介帻，通天冠，平冕。
冕，皁表，硃绿里，广七寸，长二尺二寸，加于通天冠上，前圆后方，垂白玉珠，十有二旒，以硃组为缨，无緌。
佩白玉，垂珠黄大旒，绶黄赤缥绀四采。
衣皁上，绛下，前三幅，后四幅，衣画而裳绣，为日、月、星辰、山、龙、华虫、藻、火、粉米、黼、黻之象，凡十二章。
素带广四寸，硃里，以硃绿裨饰其侧。
中衣以绛缘其领袖。
赤皮为韨，绛袴袜，赤舄。
未加元服者，空顶介帻。
其释奠先圣，则皁纱袍，绛缘中衣，绛袴袜，黑舄，其临轩，亦衮冕也。
其朝服，通天冠高九寸，金博山颜，黑介帻，绛纱袍，皁缘中衣。
其拜陵，黑介帻，单衣。
其杂服，有青赤黄白缃黑色，介帻，五色纱袍，五梁进贤冠，远游冠，平上帻武冠。
其素服，白单衣。
后汉以来，天子之冕，前后旒用真白玉珠。
魏明帝好妇人之饰，改以珊瑚珠。
晋初仍旧不改。
及过江，服章多阙，而冕饰以翡翠珊瑚杂珠。
侍中顾和奏： 旧礼，冕十二旒，用白玉珠。
今美玉难得，不能备，可用白璇珠。
从之。
通天冠，本秦制。
高九寸，正竖，顶少斜却，乃直下，铁为卷梁，前有展筒，冠前加金博山述，乘舆所常服也。
translation: 
Emperor Wei Ming believed that the splendid attire of the ministers was similar to that of the supreme emperor, so he made a lot of derogations and began to stipulate that the clothes of the emperor should use embroidery patterns, and the clothes of the ministers should use woven patterns.
When the Jin Dynasty was established by destiny, it was still used without any change.
When the emperor worships the Tiandi Mingtang ancestral temple in the suburbs, or holds court meetings on New Year's Day or receives ministers in front of the palace, he wears a black frame, a crown that reaches the sky, and a flat crown.
The shape of the crown is soap-colored in appearance, wrapped in vermilion green, seven inches wide and one foot two inches long. It is worn on the crown of heaven, with the front round and the back, with white jade beads hanging down. There are twelve tassels in total, and the tassels are made of red silk ribbons. They are not short.
Wearing white jade, a large yellow pearl hangs down, and the ribbon is in four colors: yellow and red.
The upper garment is soap color and the lower garment is crimson color. There are three paintings on the front and four on the back. The upper garment has painted patterns while the lower garment has embroidered patterns, including moon, stars, mountains, dragons, Chinese insects, algae, fire, pink rice, embroidery, embroidery, etc., totaling twelve chapters.
The plain is four inches wide, wrapped in vermilion, and decorated with vermilion green trim on both sides.
The middle coat is decorated with crimson collar and sleeve edges.
Use red leather to make the urinary tract, crimson pantyhose, and red poncho.
When not wearing a crown, just wear a frame.
If it is the ancestor of Shi Dian, he should wear a soap-colored gauze robe, a middle coat with a crimson edge, crimson pantyhose, and a black jacket. If you are meeting your subordinates in front of the palace, you will also wear a Gongmian.
If it is a court dress, use a nine-inch tall crown, decorated with Jinbo Mountain on the forehead, a black frame, a crimson gauze robe, and a middle coat with a soap-colored edge.
If you are visiting the mausoleum, wear a black frame and single clothes.
If it is a miscellaneous dress, there are green, red, yellow, white, black and other colors, with an intermediate frame, a five-color gauze robe, a Wuliang Jinxian crown, a distant travel crown, and a flat upper frame martial crown.
If you are wearing plain clothes, wear a white clam hat and unlined upper garments.
Since the Later Han Dynasty, the emperor's crown has been made of white jade beads.
Emperor Wei Ming liked women's decorations and used coral beads instead.
In the early days of Jin Dynasty, the old rules were followed without any change.
After crossing the river, many clothing systems were no longer in place. As for the crown, it was decorated with jade and coral beads of various colors.
Gu He, the attendant, reported: In the old ritual system, the crown had twelve strands and white jade beads.
Nowadays, beautiful jade is very rare. If you can’t have all of them, you can use white xuanzhu.
Followed his advice.
The Tongtian Crown was originally a system of the Qin Dynasty.
Nine inches high, the front is upright, the top is slightly inclined backward, and then straight down. It is made of iron and rolled beams. There is an exhibition tube in front. The front of the crown is decorated with a mountain shape and kingfisher feathers. The emperor often wears this kind of crown.

summary:
summary line 4: The second half focuses on clothing and headwear. The emperor’s ceremonial attire included a black frame crown with white jade beads, twelve tassels, and a robe with twelve chapters (e.g., sun, moon, dragons). Different occasions required specific garments, such as a soap-colored robe for ancestral sacrifices or a crimson robe for court. Crowns varied by rank: the Tongtian Crown for the emperor, Pingmian for princes, and Jinxian Crown for scholars, with beams indicating status (e.g., three beams for princes, one beam for low officials). Other crowns like the Wu Guan (martial), Alpine Crown (for envoys), and Dharma Crown (for law officials) had distinct shapes and origins, often linked to historical figures or legends. The text also describes caps, scarves, and hats, noting that the clam (a type of headgear) evolved from ancient practices and was used by all classes.

Chunk 18: 
original: 
徐爰曰： 俗说本未有岐，荀文若巾之行，触树枝成岐，谓之为善，因而弗改。
今通以为庆吊服。
巾，以葛为之，形如而横著之，古尊卑共服也。
故汉末妖贼以黄为巾，世谓黄巾贼。
帽名犹冠也，义取于蒙覆其首，其本纚也。
古者冠无帻，冠下有纚，以缯为之。
后世施帻于冠，因或裁缨为帽。
自乘舆宴居，下至庶人无爵者皆服之。
成帝咸和九年，制听尚书八座丞郎、门下三省侍官乘车，白低帏，出入掖门。
又，二宫直官著乌纱。
然则往往士人宴居皆著矣。
而江左时野人已著帽，人士亦往往而然，但其顶圆耳，后乃高其屋云。
汉制，自天子至于百官，无不佩剑，其后惟朝带剑。
晋世始代之以木，贵者犹用玉首，贱者亦用蚌、金银、玳瑁为雕饰。
乘舆六玺，秦制也。
曰 皇帝行玺 、 皇帝之玺 、 皇帝信玺 、 天子行玺 、 天子之玺 、 天子信玺 ，汉遵秦不改。
又有秦始皇蓝田玉玺，螭兽纽，在六玺之外，文曰 受天之命，皇帝寿昌 。
汉高祖佩之，后世名曰传国玺，与斩白蛇剑俱为乘舆所宝。
斩白蛇剑至惠帝时武库火烧之，遂亡。
及怀帝没胡，传国玺没于刘聪，后又没于石勒。
及石季龙死，胡乱，穆帝世乃还江南。
革带，古之鞶带也，谓之鞶革，文武众官牧守丞令下及驺寺皆服之。
其有囊绶，则以缀于革带，其戎服则以皮络带代之。
八坐尚书荷紫，以生紫为袷囊，缀之服外，加于左肩。
昔周公负成王，制此服衣，至今以为朝服。
或云汉世用盛奏事，负之以行，未详也。
translation: 
Xu Yuan said: It is said that the clam originally had no forks. Xun Wenruo walked with it and encountered branches and formed forks. He thought it was good and continued to use it without any change.
Nowadays, it is used as a kind of clothing for celebrations and condolences.
The scarf is made of kudzu, shaped like a clam and worn horizontally. In ancient times, it was worn by everyone regardless of superiority or inferiority.
Therefore, the demon thieves in Momo wear yellow scarves, and the world calls them yellow scarf thieves.
The name "cap" is equivalent to a crown, which means a cap covering the head. It was originally a cable.
When the ancients wore the crown, there was no frame. There was a rope under the crown, which was made of Zeng.
Later generations wore crowns with frames, so some people cut them into hats.
From the emperor's banquet to the common people without titles, they all wore it.
In the ninth year of Emperor Cheng's Xianhe reign, it was stipulated that eight ministers and ministers from the three provinces under his command were allowed to wear white clams and low curtains when traveling in and out of Yemen.
In addition, Dai Wushaqia, the official of the Second Palace.
However, scholars often wore clams when having banquets.
However, people in mountain villages during the Shu and Jin Dynasties already knew how to wear hats, and ordinary people often wore them that way, except that the top of the hat was round, and later it was raised to form a house.
In Modai's system, from the emperor to the officials, no one did not wear a sword. From then on, they only wore swords when going to court.
Only in the Jin Dynasty did wooden swords begin to be used instead. People with high status also used jade to decorate sword hilts, while those with low status also used crickets, gold, silver, and tortoiseshell as carvings.
The emperor has six seals, which was the system of the Qin Dynasty.
They are the Emperor's Seal, the Emperor's Seal, the Emperor's Letter, the Emperor's Seal, the Emperor's Seal, and the Emperor's Letter. Mo Dai followed the Qin Dynasty without any change.
In addition, there is the Lantian Jade Seal of Qin Shihuang. The button is in the shape of a Chi animal. Outside the six seals, the seal text is "Accepting the order of heaven, the emperor will be Shouchang".
Mo Gaozu wore it, and later generations called it the Imperial Seal. Together with the sword that killed the white snake, it was treasured by the emperor.
When the sword that killed the White Snake reached Emperor Huiwen, it was lost because the arsenal was on fire.
When Emperor Huai was captured by the Hu people, the imperial seal was handed over to Liu Cong, and later to Hu Shao.
He did not return to the south of the Yangtze River until after the death of Hu Xiewei and the civil strife among the Hu people.
The leather belt is the belt in ancient times, called Qingge. All civil and military officials, including Mu Shou Cheng, used it when they came to Ou Temple.
If there is a pouch to hold the seal ribbon, put it on the leather belt. If it is a military uniform, use a leather belt instead.
The eight-seat minister carries a purple bag, which is made of raw purple and is embellished on the outside of the court clothes and carried on his left shoulder.
Once upon a time, the Duke of Zhou became a king on his back and began to make this kind of clothing, which is still used as a court uniform today.
Some people say that in the Han Dynasty, it was used to carry documents for memorial, and it was easy to carry on the back, but it is not clear exactly how.

summary:
summary line 5: The text concludes with accessories and women’s attire. Swords were once universal but later limited to court, with wooden swords replacing metal. The emperor’s six seals, including the legendary Imperial Seal, were passed down, though the sword of the white snake was lost. Belts, pouches, and wats (tablets) were used for official duties, with specific colors and materials for ranks. Women’s clothing, such as the queen’s soap-colored top for temple visits or cyan for weddings, included elaborate headdresses with golden flowers, jade ornaments, and step decorations. Noble ladies and concubines had graded seals, ribbons, and jade, with specific attire for silkworm ceremonies. The text emphasizes that these systems were meant to reflect virtue and status, but many were lost or simplified over time, especially after the Eastern Jin Dynasty.

