Chunk 0: 
original: 
史臣曰：昔者乘云效驾，卷领垂衣，则黄帝皁衣纁裳，放勋彤车白马，叶三微之序，舍寅丑之建，玄戈玉刃，作会相晖。
若乃参旗分景，帝车含曜，又所以营卫南宫，增华北极。
《月令》季夏之月， 命妇官染彩 ，赪丹班次，各有品章矣。
高旗有日月之象，式视有威仪之选，衣兼鞙珮，衡载鸣和，是以闲邪屏弃，不可入也。
若乃正名百物，补缉四维，疏怀山之水，静倾天之害，功尤彰者饰弥焕，德愈盛者服弥尊，莫不质良，用成其美。
《书》曰： 明试以功，车服以庸。
《礼记》曰： 鸾车，有虞氏之路也。
钩车，夏后氏之路也。
大路，殷路也。
乘路，周路也。
而韨火山龙，以通其意。
前史以为，圣人见鸟兽容貌，草木英华，始创衣冠，而玄黄殊采；见秋蓬孤转，杓觿旁建，乃作舆轮，而方圆异则。
遇物成象，触类兴端。周因于殷，其来已旧。
成王之会，坛垂阴羽，五方之盛，有八十物者焉。
宗马鸟旌，奚往不格，殷公、曹叔，此焉低首。
《周礼》，巾车氏建大赤以朝，大白以戎。
雅制弘多，式遵遗范，宾入异宪，师行殊则，是以有严有翼，用光其武，钩膺鞗革，乃暢其文。
六服之冕，五时之路，王之常制，各有等差。
逮礼业雕讹，人情驰爽，诸侯征伐，宪度沦亡，一紫乱于齐饰，长缨混于邹玩。
translation: 
Shi Chen said: Since ancient times, there have been gods riding on vehicles made of clouds while servants tested the vehicles for their masters. There have also been incidents of ancestors wearing roll-neck clothes or grown-up clothes. Therefore, the Yellow Emperor had a black top and light red lower clothes, and Fang Xun had a vermilion chariot and white horses. They were in harmony with the calendar of the Three Zhengs, and the calendar of Jian Yin and Jian Chou was set, and the Xuan Ge Jade Blade complemented each other.
As for the flags sharing the brilliance of the sun, moon and stars, the imperial chariot shone brightly and was used to protect the Nangong and add glory to the North Pole.
The "Moon Order" mentions that in the third month of summer, women officials are ordered to dye colored satin, with different shades of red and red, each with certain standards.
The high-flying flag has the image of the sun and the moon, attracting everyone's attention and possessing supreme majesty. The clothes are adorned with jade ornaments, and the bells on the scales of the carriage ring. Therefore, all evil thoughts are abandoned and are not affected.
As for rectifying the names of all things, revising laws and regulations, eliminating catastrophic disasters such as floods and mountains, and solving disasters like the collapse of the sky and the earth, the clothes of people with particularly outstanding achievements will be more glorious, and the clothes of people with great virtues will be more noble. They are all made of fine quality and are used to fulfill their beautiful virtues.
"Shangshu" says: Judge fairly based on merit, and reward meritorious officials with carriages, horses and clothing.
"Book of Rites" says: Luan chariot is the chariot owned by the Yu family.
The hook cart is Xia Hou's carriage.
Dajiao is the seat of the emperor of the Yin Dynasty.
Chengge is the vehicle used by the emperors of the Zhou Dynasty.
The patterns on the clothes such as the volcano, dragon, etc. are used to express the same meaning.
History books of the previous generation believe that the saints saw the appearance of birds and animals, and the flowers of grass and trees, so they created clothes and hats, with different colors such as black and yellow; they saw the basil blown by the wind in autumn and the appearance of the scales of the Big Dipper, so they created carriage wheels with different square and round shapes.
The formation of a new image when encountering a certain object, and the creation of creative ideas when touching a certain thing have a long history from the Zhou Dynasty to the Yin Dynasty.
In King Sheng's alliance, the altar was decorated with light black crane feathers, and five parties gathered together, with a total of eighty items.
Zong Ma and Bird Banner imitate natural things everywhere. Duke Yin and Uncle Cao bowed their heads here.
According to the "Book of Rites of Zhou", Jinche's tree Dachi was used for court meetings, and the Dabai tree was used for military affairs.
There are many elegant systems, all of which follow the models left by the previous generations. There are different rules for welcoming guests, and there are related systems for leaving the army. Therefore, they are both solemn and prioritized. They use it to promote their career. They are decorated with stripes and patterns as much as possible.
Crowns in different places, chariots and horses at different times, each have different regulations in the king's regular system.
When the etiquette system declined and became disordered, human relations were not restrained, the princes conquered each other, and the laws declined and disappeared, a kind of purple confused the clothes of Qi State, and a kind of long tassel made Zou State indistinguishable.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
孔子曰： 君子其学也博，其服也乡。
若乃豪杰不经，庶人干典，彯鹬冠于郑伯之门，蹑珠履于春申之第。
及秦皇并国，揽其余轨，丰貂东至，獬豸南来，又有玄旗皁旒之制，旄头罕车之饰，写九王之廷于咸阳北坂，车舆之彩，各树其文，所谓秦人大备，而陈战国之后车者也。
及凝脂布网，经书咸烬，削灭三代，以金根为帝轸，除弃六冕，以袀玄为祭服。
高祖入关，既因秦制。
世宗挺英雄之略，总文景之资，扬霓拂翳，皮轩记鼓，横汾河而祠后土，登甘泉而祭昊天，奉常献仪，谓之大驾，车千乘而骑万匹。
至于成帝，以幸姬赵飞燕置属车间豹尾中，又杨雄所谓彏天狼之威弧，张曜日之灵旄，骈罗列布，雾集云合者也。
于后王氏擅朝，武车常轫，赤眉之乱，文物无遗。
建武十三年，吴汉平蜀，始送葆车舆辇，充庭之饰，渐以周备。
明帝采《周官》、《礼记》，更服衮章，天子冠通天而佩玉玺。
魏明以黼黻之美，有疑于僭，于是随章傧略，而捐者半焉。
高堂隆奏曰： 改正朔、殊徽号者，帝王所以神明其政，变民耳目也。
帝从其议，改青龙五年为景初元年，服色尚黄，从地正也。
世祖武皇帝接天人之贶，开典午之基，受终之礼，皆如唐虞故事。
晋氏金行，而服色尚赤，岂有司失其传欤！
玉、金、象、革、木等路，是为五路，并天子之法车，皆硃班漆轮，画为虡文。
三十幅，法月之数；重毂，贰辖，以赤油，广八寸，长三尺，注地，系两轴头，谓之飞軨。
translation: 
Confucius said: A gentleman's knowledge should be extensive, and his clothing should be consistent with his status.
As for the powerful people who did not abide by the laws, the common people violated the laws and regulations, wore snipe crowns to show off in front of Uncle Zheng's gate, and wore beads and shoes in and out of Zhou Shigan's mansion.
Until the Tongsi Emperor annexed various countries, inherited their practices, collected fertile mink from the east and Xie Zhi from the south, made Xuanqi Zaoqi, decorated the carriages, and imitated the palaces of the princes of various countries in Beiban, Xianyang.
When the French net is denser than grease and all the scriptures are burned to ashes, the influence of the three cuts is eliminated, the golden root chariot is used as the emperor's chariot, the six crowns are discarded, and Gou Xuan is used as the sacrificial robe.
After Emperor Gaozu entered the customs, he followed the system of Taiwan.
Emperor Shizong had great talents and great plans, and inherited the achievements of Emperor Wen and Emperor Jing. The neon banners fluttered on the canopy, and Pi Xuan advanced to the sound of drums. He crossed the Fen River to go to the temple to offer sacrifices to his ancestors, climbed to the sweet spring to offer sacrifices to Haotian, and often offered rituals and regulations, which were called great drives. He had thousands of vehicles and thousands of horses.
When he arrived at the Sheng Emperor, he let his favored concubine Zhao Feiyan sit in the leopard-tailed chariot in his chariot. As Yang Xiong said, he stretched out his majestic flag bow like a wolf, and stretched out his dazzling souls like the sun. They walked in pairs, like mist and clouds.
Since then, the Wang family has taken sole control of the government, and wars have continued. Especially after the Chimei Rebellion, all cultural relics were destroyed.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, when Wu Han pacified Shu, Bao chariots and chariots were sent to enrich the court's various ceremonial decorations and gradually complete them.
Emperor Ming formulated the costumes according to "Zhou Guan" and "Book of Rites", and the emperor wore a crown and a jade seal.
Emperor Wei Ming thought that the rich and beautiful fur was akin to transgression, so he reduced it according to the decoration and removed half of it.
Gao Tanglong said: The reason for changing Zhengshuo and using different emblems is because the emperor wanted to make his political power consistent with the gods and change the people's impression.
The emperor listened to his advice and changed the fifth year of Qinglong to the first year of Jingchu. The color of clothes was yellow, which was the correct color for obedience.
Emperor Shi Zuwu inherited the gift from heaven and man, established the foundation of the Sima family, and performed the etiquette of accepting the abdication of the throne, completely imitating the practices of Tang Yao and Yu Shun.
The Jin family belongs to the gold industry, but the color of their clothing is red. Could it be that the relevant departments do not understand the rules passed down from ancient times!
Jade, gold, elephant, leather, wood and other chariots are called "five chariots". They are all the emperor's ceremonial chariots. They are all painted with vermilion painted wheels and painted with deer heads and dragon bodies.
Thirty spokes, imitating the number of days in a month; two hubs with double jurisdiction. A red oilcloth eight inches wide and three feet long is tied to both ends of the axle and dragged straight to the ground, which is called "Feiou".


Chunk 2: 
original: 
金薄缪龙绕之为舆倚较，较重，为文兽伏轼，龙首衔轭，左右吉阳筩，鸾雀立衡，虡文画辕及轓。
青盖，黄为里，谓之黄屋。
金华施末，二十八以象宿。
两箱之后，皆玳瑁为鹍翅，加以金银雕饰，故世人亦谓之金鹍车。
斜注旂旗于车之左，又加棨戟于车之右，皆橐而施之。棨戟韬以黻绣，上为亚字，系大蛙蟆幡。
轭长丈余。
于戟之杪，以牦牛尾，大如斗，置左騑马轭上，是为左纛。
辕皆曲向上，取《礼纬》 山车垂句 之义，言不揉而能自曲。
玉、金、象三路，各以其物饰车，因以为名。
革者漆革，木者漆木。
其制，玉路最尊，建太常，十有二旒，九仞委地，画日月升龙，以祀天。
金路建大旂，九旒，以会万国之宾，亦以赐上公及王子母弟。
象路建大赤，通赤无画，所以视朝，亦以赐诸侯。
革路建大白，以即戎兵事，亦以赐四镇诸侯。
木路建大麾，以田猎，其麾色黑，亦以赐籓国。
玉路驾六黑马，余四路皆驾四马，马并以黄金为文髦，插以翟尾。
象镳而镂锡，锡在马面，所谓当颅者也。
金而方釳，金谓以金为文。
釳以铁为之，其大三寸，中央两头高，如山形，贯中以翟尾而结著之也。
繁缨赤罽易茸，金就十有二。
繁缨，马饰缨，在马膺前，如索裙。
五路皆有锡鸾之饰，和铃之响，钩膺玉瓖，钩膺，即繁缨也。
瓖，马带玦名也。
龙辀华轙，辀，车辕也，头为龙象。
轙，谓车衡上环受鸾者也。
硃幩。
幩，饰也，人君以硃缠镳扇汗，以为饰也。
translation: 
The carriage is decorated with gold foil coiled dragon patterns on both sides of the carriage. The carriage is double. The carriage is in the shape of a crouching tiger with colorful decorations. A carved dragon head is used to hold the yoke. There are auspicious Yang tubes on the left and right. Gold is made of a luan bird standing on the scale. The shafts and streamers are decorated with deer heads and dragon patterns.
The green car hood and yellow wrapper are called yellow houses.
The end of the stick on the car hood is decorated with gold flowers, and there are twenty-eight sticks to symbolize the twenty-eight constellations.
On the back of the two boxes, there are gull wings made of tortoise shell, with gold and silver carvings, so the world also calls them "golden gull cars".
On the left side of the car is a navel flag, and on the right side of the car is a firewood halberd, both covered with covers. The sleeve of the honor halberd is made of embroidery, with the word "亚" on it, and is tied with a big frog streamer.
The yoke is more than ten feet long.
The top of the halberd is decorated with a yak tail, which is as big as a bucket. It is placed on the yoke of the Phi horse on the left side. This is the left halberd.
The shafts of the chariot are all curved upward, which refers to the meaning of "mountain chariot vertical sentence" in "Liwei", which means that it can bend naturally without processing.
The three types of chariots, jade, gold and elephant, each use their related materials to decorate the chariot, hence the name.
Leather refers to painted leather, and wood refers to painted wood.
In terms of shape, Yuzhi is the most noble. It is built with the Taichang flag, which has twelve strands, is nine feet long and is dragged to the ground. It is painted with the sun, moon and rising dragon, which is used to worship the sky.
The golden lattice tree is a large flag with nine strands, which is used to meet guests from all over the world, and is also used to give gifts to the prince and his younger brother.
The elephant tree is Da Chi, which is completely red without any pattern. It is used to listen to government affairs in court and also to give gifts to princes.
The Gege tree is Dabai, which is used to participate in military activities such as campaigns, and is also used to give to the princes of the four towns.
The tree is dominated by a large deer, which is used for hunting. The color of this deer is black, and it is also used to give to vassal states.
The jade chariot rides six black horses, and the remaining four squares all ride four horses. All the horses are elegantly made of gold and have tails.
The ivory chaps and carved chaps are placed on the horse's face, also called dangpo.
The square iron hen with gold wheat pattern, the golden thumb finger is decorated with gold worry.
It is made of moths, three inches in size, high in the middle and at both ends, like a mountain shape, connected from the middle and tied together with Zhai tail.
A velvety red woolen blanket with twelve turns of gold ornaments.
Fanying, decorating the horse's tassel, is on the horse's chest, like a rope skirt.
The five grids are decorated with tin, luan and other decorations, as well as bells and other ringing instruments, hooks and jade pots, and the hooks are Fanying.
瓖, the name of the jade calamity on the horse belt.
Dragon axle and Chinese sacrifice, axle, chariot shaft. The head of the head is made like a dragon.
Gong refers to the ring on which the luan is hung on the scale.
Zhu is angry.
As a decoration, Renjun wrapped a vermilion silk around a bighead carp and fanned it as a decoration.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
法驾行则五路各有所主，不惧出；临轩大会则陈乘舆车辇旌鼓于其殿庭。
车，坐乘者谓之安车，倚乘者谓之立车，亦谓之高车。
案《周礼》，惟王后有安车也，王亦无之。
自汉以来制乘舆，乃有之。
有青立车、青安车、赤立车、赤安车、黄立车、黄安车、白立车、白安车、黑立车、黑安车，合十乘，名为五时车，俗谓之五帝车。
天子所御则驾六，其余并驾四。
建旂十二，各如车色。
立车则正竖其旂，安车则邪注。
驾马，马亦各随五时之色，白马则硃其尾，左右騑骖，金镂锡，黄屋左纛，如金根之制，行则从后。
五牛旗，平吴后所造，以五牛建旗，车设五牛，青赤在左，黄在中，白黑在右。
竖旗于牛背，行则使人舆之。
牛之为义，盖取其负重致远而安稳也。
旗常缠不舒，所谓德车结旌也。
天子亲戎则舒，谓武车绥旌也。
金根车，驾四马，不建旗帜，其上如画轮车，下犹金根之饰。
耕根车，驾四马，建赤旂，十有二旒，天子亲耕所乘者也。
一名芝车，一名三盖车。置耒耜于轼上。
魏景初元年，改正朔，易服色，色尚黄，牲用白，戎事乘黑首白马，建大赤之旂，朝会则建大白，行殷之时也。
泰始二年，有司奏： 宜如有虞遵唐故事，皆用前代正朔服色，其金根、耕根车，并以建赤旗。
帝从之。
辇，案自汉以来为人君之乘，魏晋御小出即乘之。
戎车，驾四马，天子亲戎所乘者也。
translation: 
When the Dharma driver travels, the five jurisdictions have their own uses and do not drive out together. During the Linxuan meeting, the chariots, chariots, flags, drums, etc. are displayed in the courtyard in front of the palace.
Cars, those who ride on them while sitting are called An cars, and those who ride on them while standing are called Li cars, also called high cars.
According to the "Book of Rites of Zhou", only the queen, not even the king, has a chariot.
It was only after the Han Dynasty that chariots were made for emperors.
There are cyan standing cars, cyan standing cars, red standing cars, red standing cars, yellow standing cars, yellow standing cars, white standing cars, white standing cars, black standing cars, and black standing cars. There are ten cars in total. They are called five-hour cars, and the common saying is called the Five Emperors' cars.
The emperor rode with six horses, and the rest with four horses.
Twelve flags are placed, each with the same color as the car.
When setting up a chariot, place the flags upright, and when installing the chariot, place them diagonally.
The coat color of the horses driving the horses should also be consistent with the color of the five seasons. If white horses are used, their manes and tails will be painted vermilion. The Phi horses on the left and right sides wear gold headdresses with engraved patterns, and use yellow houses and left bows to imitate the practice of gold-rooted chariots. They are allowed to follow them when traveling.
The Five Oxen Flag was made after the Wudi was pacified. Five oxen were used to place the flag. Five oxen were placed on the cart, with cyan and red on the left, yellow in the middle, and white and black on the right.
Flags were put up on the backs of the cattle and people were sent to carry them in carts when traveling.
The reason for using oxen is that they can carry heavy loads for long distances and are stable.
The flags on the vehicle are usually rolled up and unstretched, which means that the so-called virtuous people bundle up the flags on their vehicles.
When the emperor personally marches on the battlefield, it is stretched out, which means that the carriages of the so-called martial virtues are loosened and the flags are loosened.
The golden root chariot is driven by four horses without flags. Its upper part is like a day wheel chariot, and the lower part is still decorated with golden roots.
The plowing cart was driven by four horses and carried a red flag. It had twelve thorns. It was the cart that the emperor rode when he was plowing.
It is also called Zhi chariot, and it is also called three-cover chariot. The grass is placed on the chariot.
In the first year of Wei Jingchu, Zhengshuo was changed, the color of clothing was changed, yellow was respected, animals were white, black-headed white horses were used when there were military operations, red flags were placed, and white flags were placed during court meetings, and the system of Yin Dynasty was implemented.
In the second year of Taishi's reign, a minister reported: Just as You Yu followed the old affairs of Tang Yao, they should all use the Zhengshuo uniform of the previous generation, and all gold-rooted carts and plowing-root carts should have red flags.
The emperor obeyed.
The chariot has been used by emperors since the Han Dynasty. In the Wei and Jin Dynasties, the emperor used it when he was out of town.
A military chariot, driven by four horses, was the chariot used by the emperor during his personal conquests.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
载金鼓、羽旗、幢翳，置弩于轼上，其建矛麾悉斜注。
猎车，驾四马，天子校猎所乘也。
重辋漫轮，缪龙绕之。
一名阘戟车，一名蹋猪车。
魏文帝改名蹋兽车。
《记》云 国君不乘奇车 ，奇车亦猎车也。
古天子猎则乘木辂，后人代以猎车也。
游车，九乘，驾四，先驱之乘是也。
云罕车，驾四。
皮轩车，驾四，以兽皮为轩。
鸾旗车，驾四，先辂所载也。
鸾旗者，谓析羽旄而编之，列系幢傍也。
建华车，驾四，凡二乘，行则分居左右。
轻车，驾二，古之战车也。
前后二十乘，分居左右。
舆轮洞硃，不巾不盖，建矛戟麾幢，置弩于轼上。
大驾法驾出，射声校尉、司马、吏士、战士载，以次属车。
司南车，一名指南车，驾四马，其下制如楼，三级；四角金龙衔羽葆；刻木为仙人，衣羽衣，立车上，车虽回运而手常南指。
大驾出行，为先启之乘。
记里鼓车，驾四，形制如司南，其中有木人执棰向鼓，行一里则打一棰。
羊车，一名辇车，其上如轺，伏兔箱，漆画轮轭。
武帝时，护军羊琇辄乘羊车，司隶刘毅纠劾其罪。
画轮车，驾牛，以彩漆画轮毂，故名曰画轮车。
上起四夹杖，左右开四望，绿油幢，硃丝络，青交路，其上形制事事如辇，其下犹如犊车耳。
古之贵者不乘牛车，汉武帝推恩之末，诸侯寡弱，贫者至乘牛车，其后稍见贵之。
自灵献以来，天子至士遂以为常乘，至尊出朝堂举哀乘之。
属车，一曰副车，一曰贰车，一曰左车。
汉因秦制，大驾属车八十一乘，行则中央左右分为行。
法驾属车三十六乘。
最后车悬豹尾，豹尾以前比之省中。
属车皆皁盖硃里云。
御衣车、御书车、御轺车、御药车，皆驾牛。
阳遂四望繐窗皁轮小形车，驾牛。
translation: 
It is loaded with golden drums, feather flags, and banners, and a crossbow is placed on the chariot. The spears and minions are inserted diagonally.
The hunting carriage was driven by four horses and was used by the emperor when hunting.
The wheels have double rims and are decorated with coiled dragons.
It is also called the Khotan Ji chariot and the Ta pig chariot.
Emperor Wen of Wei changed its name to Ta beast chariot.
"Records" says that the king does not ride in strange cars, and strange cars are also hunting cars.
In ancient times, the emperor would ride in a wooden chariot when he went hunting. Later, people used hunting carts instead.
There are nine traveling carriages, each with four horses, and are used as pioneer carriages.
Yunhan's chariot is harnessed to four horses.
A leather carriage with four horses, decorated with animal skins.
Luanqi chariot, with four horses, is a chariot for the leader.
Luan flags are made of feathers and are arranged in rows and tied to the side of the building.
There are two Jianhua carts with four horses, and they are arranged on the left and right sides respectively when traveling.
A light chariot with two horses is an ancient chariot.
There are twenty vehicles at the front and rear, arranged on the left and right sides.
The wheels of the carriage are painted vermilion, no coverings are needed, spears and halberds are inserted into the pillars, and crossbows are set on the carriages.
When the Grand Chariot and the Legal Chariot are traveling, the commander, commander, officials, and soldiers will ride on it, and the positions of the chariots will be arranged according to rank.
Sinan chariot is a guide chariot with four horses. Its lower part is shaped like a statue, with three floors; its four corners are decorated with golden dragons holding feathers in their mouths; they are carved out of wood and are made of immortals, wearing feathered clothes and standing on the chariot. No matter how the chariot turns, the hand always points to the south.
When traveling by car, be the first car to leave.
In the record, the drum cart has four horses and is shaped like a Sinan cart. There is a wooden man on top holding a mallet and facing the drum, hitting one mallet every mile.
The sheep cart is also called a chariot cart. The upper part is shaped like a chariot, with a rabbit underneath and painted wheels and yokes.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, the guarding sheep lured him into riding a sheep cart, and the official Liu Yi corrected him for his crime.
A wheel cart is driven by an ox, and patterns are painted on the wheel hubs with colored paint, so it is called a wheel cart.
There are four clamping staffs built on top, with green buildings, red silk ropes and green roads on the left and right sides. The upper part is the same as the chariot, and the lower part is still in the style of a calf cart.
In ancient times, nobles did not ride in bullock carts. In the later period of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty's favor, the princes were so weak that they were so poor that they rode in bullock carts. Later, they gradually became more valued.
After the Emperor Ling dedicates himself to the throne, the emperor and even the scholars used it as a daily carriage, and the supreme emperor rode it when he went out of the court to mourn.
It is a car, also called the auxiliary car, the second car, and the left car.
The Han Dynasty inherited the system of the Qin Dynasty, and the number of chariots in the chariot was eighty-one. When traveling, they were arranged in the center and left and right.
There are thirty-six chariots belonging to Fa Chai.
The last chariot has a leopard's tail hanging on it, and the guard of honor in front of the leopard-tailed chariot is similar to that in the palace.
It is said that the cars are all black with vermilion hoods.
The royal clothing chariot, the royal book chariot, the imperial Tao chariot, and the royal medicine chariot are all driven by oxen.
Yang Sui looked around at the small cart with soap wheels wrapped around the windows and driven by oxen.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
象车，汉卤簿最在前。
武帝太康中平吴后，南越献驯象，诏作大车驾之，以载黄门鼓吹数十人，使越人骑之。
元正大会，驾象入庭。
中朝大驾卤簿
先象车，鼓吹一部，十三人，中道。
次静室令，驾一，中道。
式道候二人，驾一，分左右也。
次洛阳尉二人，骑，分左右。
次洛阳亭长九人，赤车，驾一，分三道，各吹正二人引。
次洛阳令，皁车，驾一，中道。
次河南中部掾，中道。
河桥掾在左，功曹史在右，并驾一。
次河南尹，驾驷，戟吏六人。
次河南主簿，驾一，中道。
次河南主记，驾一，中道。
次司隶部河南从事，中道。
都部从事居左，别驾从事居右，并驾一。
次司隶校尉，驾三，戟吏八人。
次司隶主簿，驾一，中道。
次司隶主记，驾一，中道。
次廷尉明法掾，中道。
五官掾居左，功曹史居右，并驾一。
次廷尉卿，驾驷，戟吏六人。
次廷尉主簿、主记，并驾一，在左。
太仆引从如廷尉，在中。
宗正引从如廷尉，在右。
次太常，驾驷，中道，戟吏六人。
太常外部掾居左，五官掾、功曹吏居右，并驾一。
次光禄引从，中道。
太常主簿、主记居左，卫尉引从居右，并驾一。
次太尉外督令史，驾一，中道。
次西东贼仓户等曹属，并驾一，引从。
次太尉，驾驷，中道。
太尉主簿、舍人各一人，祭酒二人，并驾一，在左。
次司徒引从，驾驷，中道。
次司空引从，驾驷，中道。
translation: 
The elephant car ranks first in the order of driving Lianyu cars.
After the county was pacified in the middle period of Gengai Zhuchen, Zhikun offered tamed elephants and ordered carts to be made and harnessed to them. They were used to carry dozens of agitators in Huangmen, and they were allowed to ride on them.
During the New Year's meeting, an elephant is driven into the hall.
The sequence of vehicles used for traveling during the Sino-Korean period.
First there is the elephant chariot, with a group of 13 drummers in the middle of the road.
The second is the quiet room order, which is driven by a horse in the middle of the road.
Two people are waiting on the road, and they are driven by a horse, divided into left and right sides.
Followed by two Luoyang captains, riding horses, divided into left and right sides.
Followed by nine people from Luoyang Pavilion, a red car driven by a horse, divided into three roads, each with two blowers as the leader.
Next is Luoyang Ling, a soap-colored car driven by a horse, in the middle of the road.
Next is Central Henan Province, in the middle of the road.
He Qiao Peng is on the left, Gong Cao Shi is on the right, and they all use a horse to drive.
Next is Henan Yin, who drives a horse with four horses and six officers holding halberds.
Next is the chief secretary of Henan, driving a horse in the middle of the road.
Followed by the chief recorder of Henan, driving a horse in the middle of the road.
Next is the Division of Henan, which is engaged in the middle of the road.
Dubu is on the left side and Biejia is on the right. Both are driven by a horse.
Next is Sili Xiaowei, who drives with three horses and has eight officers holding halberds.
Next is Sili, the chief secretary, driving a horse in the middle of the road.
Next is Sili Zhuji, driving a horse in the middle of the road.
Next is Ting Wei Ming Fa Chu, in the middle of the road.
The five sense organs are on the left and the meritorious officials are on the right. Both are driven by a horse.
Next is Ting Weiqing, who drives with four horses and six officers holding halberds.
Followed by Tingwei's chief bookkeeper and chief clerk, both driving a horse, on the left side.
The leader and followers of the imperial servant are the same as those of the court captain, in the middle.
Zongzheng's leader and entourage are the same as Tingwei's, on the right.
Next is Taichang, who drives with four horses and six officers holding halberds in the middle of the road.
Taichang's external governor is on the left, Wugong's governor and Gongcao Shi are on the right, and they are all driven by a horse.
Followed by Guang Luqing's leader and followers, in the middle of the road.
Taichang's chief bookkeeper and secretary are on the left, and the guard's leader and followers are on the right, all driven by a horse.
Next was Taiwei's foreign governor, Shi, driving a horse in the middle of the road.
Followed by Xishu thieves, Cang, Hu and other Cao subordinates, all driving with one horse, leading or following.
Next came the Taiwei, driving with four horses in the middle of the road.
There is one person each for the Taiwei's chief clerk, one person for the house, and two people for the sacrificial wine. They all use a horse to drive the car, on the left side.
Next came Situ's leader and followers, driving with four horses in the middle of the road.
Next came Sikong's leader and followers, driving with four horses in the middle of the road.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
三公骑令史戟各八人，鼓吹各一部，七人。
次中护军，中道，驾驷。
卤簿左右各二行，戟楯在外，弓矢在内，鼓吹一部，七人。
次步兵校尉在左，长水校尉在右，并驾一。
各卤簿左右二行，戟楯在外，刀楯在内，鼓吹各一部，七人。
次射声校尉在左，翊军校尉在右，并驾一。
各卤簿左右各二行，戟楯在外，刀楯在内，鼓吹各一部，七人。
次骁骑将军在左，游击将军在右，并驾一。
皆卤簿左右引各二行，戟楯在外，刀楯在内，鼓吹各一部，七人。
骑队，五在左，五在右，队各五十匹，命中督二人分领左右。
各有戟吏二人，麾幢独揭，鼓在队前。
次左将军在左，前将军在右，并驾一。
皆卤簿左右各二行，戟楯盾在外，刀楯在内，鼓吹各一部，七人。
次黄门麾骑，中道。
次黄门前部鼓吹，左右各一部，十三人，驾驷。
八校尉佐仗，左右各四行，外大戟楯，次九尺楯，次弓矢，次弩，并熊渠、佽飞督领之。
次司南车，驾驷，中道。
护驾御史，骑，夹左右。
次谒者仆射，驾驷，中道。
次御史中丞，驾一，中道。
次武贲中郎将，骑，中道。
次九游车，中道，武刚车夹左右，并驾驷。
次云罕车，驾驷，中道。
次阘戟车，驾驷，中道，长戟邪偃向后。
次皮轩车，驾驷，中道。
次鸾旗车，中道，建华车分左右，并驾驷。
次护驾尚书郎三人，都官郎中道，驾部在左，中兵在右，并骑。
又有护驾尚书一人，骑，督摄前后无常。
translation: 
Sangong's riding orders, Shiji, and halberds each have eight people, and each group of drummers has seven people.
Next came the Central Guards, driving in the middle of the road with four horses.
There are two rows of honor guards on the left and right. Those holding halberds are on the outside, and those holding bows and arrows are on the inside. There are seven groups of drummers.
Next are the infantry colonel on the left and the Changshui colonel on the right, both driving with one horse.
There are two lines of honor guards on the left and right, with those holding halberds and eaves on the outside and those holding swords and eaves on the inside. Each group consists of seven people for the drummers.
Secondly, Colonel Shesheng is on the left and Colonel Yi is on the right, both driving with one horse.
There are two rows of honor guards on the left and right, with those holding halberds on the outside and those holding swords on the inside. Each group has a group of seven people.
Next is the cavalry general on the left and the guerrilla general on the right, both driven by a horse.
There are two lines of honor guards on the left and right as the forerunners. Those holding halberds are on the outside, and those holding swords are on the inside. Each group has a group of seven drummers.
There are five cavalry teams on the left and five teams on the right. Each team has fifty horses. Two lieutenants are ordered to command the left and right teams respectively.
There are two officials holding halberds each, holding a big flag alone, and the drummer walks in front of the team.
Next, the general on the left is on the left, and the general on the right is on the right, both driving with one horse.
There are two lines of honor guards on the left and right, with those holding halberds on the outside and those holding swords on the inside. Each has a group of advocates. Seven people.
Next is the Huangmen Cavalry, in the middle of the road.
Next is the front part of the Yellow Gate, with a group of thirteen people on the left and right, driven by four horses.
The Eighth School Lieutenant's assistants had four lines on each side. The outer ones held halberds, followed by nine-foot guards, followed by bows and arrows, and then crossbows. They were all led by Xiong Qu and Huo Fei.
Next is the Sinan chariot, driven by four horses, in the middle of the road.
The escort censor, riding a horse, was sandwiched between the left and right sides.
Next is the visitor Pushe, driving with four horses in the middle of the road.
Next is Yushi Zhongcheng, driving a horse in the middle of the road.
Next is General Wu Ben, riding a horse in the middle of the road.
Next is the Jiuyou chariot. In the middle of the road, the Wugang chariot is sandwiched on the left and right sides, both driven by four horses.
Next is the Yunhan chariot, driven by four horses, in the middle of the road.
Next is the Khotan halberd chariot, which is driven by four horses. In the middle of the road, the halberd is tilted to the rear.
Next is the Pixuan cart, driven by four horses, in the middle of the road.
Followed by Luanqi chariots, in the middle of the road, Jianhua chariots are arranged on the left and right sides, both driven by four horses.
Followed by three escorts, the Shang Shulang, the Du Guanlang is in the middle of the road, the driving department is on the left, and the middle soldiers are on the right, all on horseback.
There is also a chariot minister, who rides a horse and manages the front and rear teams without a fixed position.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
次相风，中道。
次司马督，在前，中道。
左右各司马史三人引仗，左右各六行，外大戟楯二行。次九尺楯，次刀楯。次弓矢，次弩。
次五时车，左右有遮列骑。
次典兵中郎，中道，督摄前却无常。
左殿中御史，右殿中监，并骑。
次高盖，中道，左罼，右罕。
次御史，中道，左右节郎各四人。
次华盖，中道。
次殿中司马，中道。
殿中都尉在左，殿中校尉在右，左右各四行。细楯一行在弩内，又殿中司马一行，殿中都尉一行，殿中校尉一行。
次扌罡鼓，中道。
次金根车，驾六马，中道。
太仆卿御，大将军参乘。
左右又各增三行，为九行。
司马史九人，引大戟楯二行，九尺楯一行，刀楯一行，由基一行，细弩一行，迹禽一行，椎斧一行，力人刀楯一行。
连细楯，殿中司马，殿中都尉，殿中校尉，为左右各十二行。
金根车建青旂十二。左将军骑在左，右将军骑在右，殿中将军持凿脑斧夹车，车后衣书主职步从，六行，合左右三十二行。
次曲华盖，中道。
侍中、散骑常侍、黄门侍郎并骑，分左右。
次黄钺车，驾一，在左，御麾骑在右。
次相风，中道。
次中书监骑左，秘书监骑右。
次殿中御史骑左，殿中监骑右。
次五牛旗，赤青在左，黄在中，白黑在右。
次大辇，中道。
太官令丞在左，太医令丞在右。
次金根车，驾驷，不建旗。
次青立车，次青安车，次赤立车，次赤安车，次黄立车，次黄安车，次白立车，次白安车，次黑立车，次黑安车，合十乘，并驾驷。
建旗十二，如车色。
立车正竖旗，安东邪拖之。
translation: 
Next is Xiangfeng, in the middle of the road.
Next is Sima Du, in front, in the middle of the road.
There are three Sima Shi on each side to guide the ceremonial guard. There are six rows on each side. On the outside are two rows holding halberds, followed by those holding nine-foot halberds, followed by those holding swords and swords, followed by those holding bows and arrows, and thirdly those holding crossbows.
Next is the five o'clock chariot, with Zhelieqi on the left and right sides.
Next is the Dianbing Zhonglang, who is in the middle of the road and manages the front and rear teams without a fixed position.
On the left is the censor of the palace, and on the right is the eunuch of the palace, both on horseback.
Next is Gaogai, in the middle of the road, with Shan on the left and Han on the right.
Next is the censor. In the middle of the road, there are four Jielang on the left and right.
Next is the canopy, in the middle of the road.
Next is the Sima of the palace, in the middle of the road.
The captain in the palace is on the left side, and the colonel in the palace is on the right. There are four rows on the left and right. The row holding the fine line is on the inside of the crossbow.
Next is the pinch drum, in the middle of the road.
Next is the golden root cart, driven by six horses, in the middle of the road.
The imperial servant drove the carriage, and the general served as a passenger.
Three more lines are added to the left and right sides, making it nine lines.
Nine Sima Shi led two lines of halberds, one line of nine-foot arrows, one line of swords, one line of bases, one line of fine crossbows, one line of trace birds, one line of vertebrae axes, and one line of strong men's swords.
Including Xixun, the Sima in the palace, the captain in the palace, and the colonel in the palace, there are twelve rows on the left and right.
Twelve cyan flags are mounted on the golden root car. The general of the left army is riding on the left side, and the general of the right army is riding on the right side. The general in the palace is holding a chisel and ax next to the car. Behind the car are the chief of clothes and books, six rows, and a total of thirty-two rows on the left and right.
Next is Quhua Gai, in the middle of the road.
The Shizhong, Sanqi Changshi, and Huangmen Shilang all rode horses and were divided into left and right.
Next is the yellow iron chariot, which is driven by a horse, on the left side, and the royal horse rides on the right side.
Next is Xiangfeng, in the middle of the road.
Next are the Secretary Supervisor on horseback on the left and the Secretary Supervisor on horseback on the right.
Next, the censor in the palace rides on the left, and the eunuch in the palace rides on the right.
Next is the Five Ox Flag, red and cyan on the left, yellow in the middle, white and black on the right.
Next is the large chariot, in the middle of the road.
The eunuch Ling Cheng is on the left, and the eunuch Ling Cheng is on the right.
The second is the golden root car, which is driven by four horses and does not display a flag.
Next is the Qingli chariot, followed by the Qing'an chariot, followed by the Chili chariot, followed by the Chi'an chariot, followed by the Huangli chariot, followed by the Huangan chariot, followed by the Baili chariot, followed by the Bai'an chariot, followed by the Heili chariot, followed by the Hei'an chariot, a total of ten chariots, all driven by four horses.
Place twelve flags, the same color as the car.
The flag is placed vertically when the vehicle is set upright, and the flag is placed diagonally when the vehicle is installed.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
次蹋猪车，驾驷，中道，无旗。
次耕根车，驾驷，中道，赤旗十二，熊渠督左，佽飞督右。
次御轺车，次御四望车，次御衣车，次御书车，次御药车，并驾牛，中道。
次尚书令在左，尚书仆射在右，又尚书郎六人，分次左右，并驾。
又治书侍御史二人，分左右，又侍御史二人，分次左右，又兰台令史分次左右，并骑。
次豹尾车，驾一。
自豹尾车后而卤簿尽矣。
但以神弩二十张夹道，至后部鼓吹。其五张神弩置一将，左右各二将。
次轻车二十乘，左右分驾。
次流苏马六十匹。
次金钺车，驾三，中道。
左右护驾尚书郎并令史，并骑，各一人。
次金钲车，驾三，中道。
左右护驾侍御史并令史等，并骑，各一人。
次黄门后部鼓吹，左右各十三人。
次戟鼓车，驾牛，二乘，分左右。
次左大鸿胪外部掾，右五官掾、功曹史，并驾。
次大鸿胪，驾驷，钺吏六人。
次大司农引从，中道，左大鸿胪主簿、主记，右少府引从。
次三卿，并骑，吏四人，铃下二人，执马鞭辟车六人，执方扇羽林十人，硃衣。
次领军将军，中道。
卤簿左右各二行，九尺楯在外，弓矢在内，鼓吹如护军。
次后军将军在左，右将军在右，各卤簿鼓吹如左军、前军。
次越骑校尉在左，屯骑校尉在右，各卤簿鼓吹如步兵、射声。
次领护骁骑、游军校尉，皆骑，吏四人，乘马夹道，都督兵曹各一人，乘马在中。
骑将军四人，骑校、鞉角、金鼓、铃下、信幡、军校并驾一。
功曹吏、主簿并骑从。
散扇幢麾各一骑，鼓吹一部，七骑。
次领护军，加大车斧，五官掾骑从。
次骑十队，队各五十匹。
将一人，持幢一人，鞉一人，并骑在前，督战伯长各一人，并骑在后，羽林骑督、幽州突骑督分领之。
郎簿十队，队各五十人。
绛袍将一人，骑、鞉各一人，在前，督战伯长各一人，步，在后。
骑皆持槊。
次大戟一队，九尺楯一队，刀楯一队，弓一队，弩一队，队各五十人。
黑袴褶将一人，骑校、鞉角各一人，步，在前，督战伯长各一人，步，在后。
金颜督将并领之。
translation: 
Next is the Tashu cart, driven by four horses, in the middle of the road, without flags.
Next is the plowing cart, driven by four horses. In the middle of the road, there are twelve red flags. Xiong Qu is supervising on the left and Fang Fei is supervising on the right.
Next is the imperial chariot, followed by the imperial carriage, followed by the imperial clothing chariot, followed by the imperial chariot, followed by the imperial medicine chariot, all driven by oxen, in the middle of the road.
Next, Zu Shangshu Ling is on the left, Shangshu Pushe is on the right, and six other Shangshu Lang are lined up on the left and right sides, all riding in the car.
There are also two people who govern the book and serve as censors, one on the left and one on the left. There are two people who serve on the censor, one on the left and one on the left. There are also the Lantai Lingshi on the left and right, both on horseback.
The second is the leopard-tailed chariot, which is driven by a horse.
The procession of carriages and horses driving back from the leopard-tailed carriage is over.
Just use twenty divine crossbows to march along the road until the rear is blown. There is one general for every five divine crossbows, and there are two generals on the left and right.
Next came twenty light vehicles, arranged on the left and right.
Next came sixty fringed horses.
Next is the golden cymbal chariot, driven by three horses, in the middle of the road.
On the left and right, there are two escorts, Shangshu Lang and Ling Shi, both on horseback, one person each.
Next is the golden button chariot, driven by three horses, in the middle of the road.
The escorts on the left and right, such as the Censor and the Lingshi, were all on horseback, one person each.
Followed by the advocates from the back of Huangmen, there are thirteen people on the left and right.
Next is the halberd and drum cart, driven by oxen, two cars, divided into left and right.
Secondly, on the left is Dahonglu's external troop, and on the right is Wuganpu and Gongcao Shi, all riding in the car.
Next is Da Honglu, who drives a horse with four horses and six officials to hold the moth.
Next is Da Sinong's forerunner and entourage. In the middle of the road, on the left are Da Honglu's chief bookkeeper and chief clerk, and on the right are the Shaofu's forerunner and entourage.
Next are the three ministers, all on horseback, four officials, two under the bell, six holding whips to drive chariots, and ten holding square fans and feathers in the forest, all dressed in red.
Next is the leading general, in the middle of the road.
There are two rows of ceremonial guards on the left and right. The one holding the nine-foot eaves is on the outside, and the one holding the bow and arrow is on the inside. The formation of the drum is the same as that of the guard.
Secondly, the rear general is on the left and the right general is on the right. Their respective ceremonial guards are the same as those of the left army and the front army.
Secondly, the Yue Cavalry Colonel is on the left, and the Tun Cavalry Colonel is on the right. Their respective ceremonial guards and shouts are the same as those of the infantry and shooting.
Next were the leading guard Xiaoqi and the guerrilla captain, both on horseback. Four officials rode along the road, and one captain each rode in the middle.
Four cavalry generals, the Riding School, Taojiao, Jingu, Lingxia, Xinban, and Military School all drive with one horse.
The meritorious officials and chief clerks all followed on horseback.
Umbrella Fan and Zhuanghui each have one horse, and one group of drummers has seven horses.
Next is to lead the guard army, increase the chariot and axe, and follow them on horseback with facial features.
Next are ten teams of cavalry, each with fifty horses.
One general, one holding the banner, and one managing the boots, all rode in front. The war supervisor and the chief each rode behind, and they were led by the Yulin Cavalry Governor and the Youzhou Tuqi Governor respectively.
There are ten teams of Langbu personnel, each with fifty people.
There is one general in crimson robes, one each on horseback and one shaver, in front, and one each on foot, the war supervisor and the commander.
The cavalry all held their guard.
Next are a team holding spurs, a team holding nine-foot arrows, a team holding swords, a team holding bows, and a team holding crossbows. Each team has fifty people.
There is one general wearing black trousers, one each from the riding school and one from the boot camp, walking in front, and one each from the war supervisor and the captain, walking behind.
They were led by General Jin Yan.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
皇太子安车，驾三，左右騑。
硃班轮，倚兽较，伏鹿轼。
九旒，画降龙。
青盖，金华蚤二十八枚。
黑虡文画轓，文辀，黄金涂五采。
亦谓之鸾路。非法驾则乘画轮车，上开四望，绿油幢，硃丝绳络，两箱里饰以金锦，黄金涂五采。
其副车三乘，形制如所乘，但不画轮耳。
王青盖车，皇孙绿盖车，并驾三，左右騑。
云母车，以云母饰犊车。
臣下不得乘，以赐王公耳。
皁轮车，驾四牛，形制犹如犊车，但皁漆轮毂，上加青油幢，硃丝绳络。
诸王三公有勋德者特加之。
位至公或四望、三望、夹望车。
油幢车，驾牛，形制如皁轮，但不漆毂耳。
王公大臣有勋德者特给之。
通幰车，驾牛，犹如今犊车制，但举其幰通覆车上也。
诸王三公并乘之。
诸公给朝车驾四、安车黑耳驾三各一乘，皁轮犊车各一乘。
自祭酒掾属以下及令史，皆皁零，辟朝服。
其武官公又别给大车。
特进及车骑将军骠骑将军以下诸大将军不开府非持节都督者，给安车黑耳驾二，轺车施耳后户一乘。
三公、九卿、中二千石、二千石、河南尹、谒者仆射、郊庙明堂法出，皆大车立乘，驾驷。
前后导从大车驾二，右騑。
他出乘安车。
其去位致仕告老，赐安车驷马。
郡县公侯，安车驾二，右騑。
皆硃班轮，倚鹿较，伏熊轼，黑辎，皁缯盖。
translation: 
The prince's chariot was driven by three horses, with two horses on the left and right.
The wheels are decorated with vermilion paint, the handles are decorated with the shape of a leaning tiger, and the shape of the car is decorated with the image of a lying deer.
The flag has nine lines, with the image of a descending dragon painted on it.
The green car cover is decorated with twenty-eight golden flowers.
The chariot is painted with black robber inscriptions, the axle is decorated with inscriptions, and the five ends are all painted with gold. Also called Luanjia.
If you are not qualified to drive, you can ride on a wheel cart, which is open and looks around, with green pillars and red silk ropes. The inner sides of the carriage are decorated with gold brocade, and the five ends are all painted with gold.
There are three auxiliary cars in total. The shape is the same as that of the prince's car, except that the wheels are not painted.
The king used a chariot with a green hood, and the emperor's grandson used a chariot with a green hood. Both were driven by three horses, with two horses on each side.
Mica cart, a calf cart decorated with mica.
Officials cannot ride on it, but it is used to reward princes.
The soap wheel cart is driven by four oxen. It is similar in shape to a calf cart, except that the wheels and hubs are painted soap color, with green oil pillars and red silk ropes on them.
Only those kings and three princes with meritorious deeds will be specially awarded.
The most important positions are the four-view, three-view, and two-view cars.
The oil-driven carts were driven by oxen, and their shape was the same as that of soap-wheel carts, except that the wheels were not painted.
Only those princes, princes, and ministers who have meritorious deeds are specially awarded.
Tongyi carts were driven by oxen, similar to the current calf cart shape, except that the Tongyi carts were completely covered on the roof.
All the kings and three princes rode on it.
I will give you a ride each for the Shangchao chariot driven by four horses, for each of the Heer'an chariot driven by three horses, and for each of the Zao wheel chariots.
Officials at all levels, from the Jijiu Bo to the Lingshi, all wear soap-colored chariots with decorations on the edges.
As for the military attache, he was given another cart.
Among the generals below Tejin, the General of Chariots and Generals of Cavalry, and the General of Hussars, who did not open their offices and were not governors, they gave Heer, who drove two horses, a chariot, and Shi Er, who opened the door behind him, took a ride.
When Sangong, Jiuqing, Zhong Erqian Shi, Er Qian Shi, Henan Yin, Ye Zhe Pushe, Jingzhe Pushe, Suburban Temple Mingtang, etc. went out formally, they all used large carts to stand up and drive with four horses.
Leading and following behind was a cart with two horses, including a right horse.
In other cases, take Ancar when traveling.
If you leave your job and retire, you will be given a car with four horses.
The princes of counties and counties use two-horse drivers to set up their chariots, and they have a right-winged horse.
The wheels are all painted with vermilion spots, the side of the carriage is decorated with the image of a deer, the carriage is decorated with the image of a bear, the carriage is black, and the hood is made of soap.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
公旗旂八旒，侯七旒，卿五旒，皆画降龙。
中二千石、二千石，皆皁盖，硃两轓，铜五采，驾二。
中二千石以上，右騑。
千石、六百石，硃左轓。
车轓长六尺，下屈广八寸，上业广尺二寸，九丈，十二初，后谦一寸，若月初生，示不敢自满也。
王公之世子摄命理国者，安车，驾三，旗旂七旒，其封侯之世子五旒。
太康四年，制： 依汉故事，给九卿朝车驾四及安车各一乘。
八年，诏： 诸尚书军校加侍中常侍者，皆给传事乘轺车，给剑，得入殿省中，与侍臣升降相随。
大使车，立乘，驾四，赤帷裳，驺骑导从。
旧公卿二千石郊庙上陵从驾，乘大使车，他出乘安车也。
小使车，不立乘，驾四，轻车之流也。
兰舆皆硃，赤毂，赤屏泥，白盖，赤帷裳，从驺骑四十人。
又别有小使车，赤毂皁盖，追捕考案有所执取者之所乘也。
凡诸使车皆硃班轮，赤衡轭。
追锋车，去小平盖，加通幰，如轺车，驾二。
追锋之名，盖取其迅速也，施于戎阵之间，是为传乘。
轺车，古之时军车也。
一马曰轺车，二马曰轺传。
汉世贵辎軿而贱轺车，魏晋重轺车而贱辎軿。
三品将军以上、尚书令轺车黑耳有后户，仆射但有后户无耳，并皁轮。
尚书及四品将军则无后户，漆毂轮。
其中书监令如仆射，侍中、黄门、散骑，初拜及谒陵庙，亦得乘之。
皇太后、皇后法驾，乘重翟羽盖金根车，驾青辂，青帷裳，云虡画辕，黄金涂五采，盖爪施金华，驾三，左右騑。
translation: 
The Duke's banner has eight lines, the Marquis's seven lines, and the Qing's five lines, all of which are painted with descending dragons.
The middle two thousand stones, two thousand stones, are made of soap chariot cover, two red flags, five bronze ornaments, and two horses.
There are more than two thousand stones in the middle, and there is a horse on the right.
Dry stone, six hundred stones, vermilion radiating from the left.
The chariot is six feet long, the short tail below is eight inches wide, and the karma board above is one foot two inches wide, nine feet long. It is at the beginning of the twelfth year. The back is shrunk by one inch, like the newborn moon, which means that it does not dare to be complacent.
The prince's prince takes charge of the kingdom, installs a chariot, drives three horses, and carries a flag with seven strands. If the prince is a prince, he uses five strands.
In the fourth year of Taikang, the system was: According to the old rules of the Han Dynasty, Jiuqing was given four horses to drive the Chao chariot and one An chariot each.
In the eighth year, an edict was issued: The ministers, military schools, and regular attendants among the attendants were all given chariots and swords to serve as messengers. They were allowed to enter the palace and ministers and follow the emperor together with the attendants.
The ambassador's carriage is driven by four horses, red curtains, and a pounding horse as a leader and follower.
Erqian Shi, the former Duke of the Imperial Palace, accompanied the emperor when he went to the mausoleum in a suburban temple, riding in an ambassador's car, and at other times traveling in an An'an car.
The small envoy's carriage does not ride directly, but drives four horses. It is a light carriage or something like that.
The orchid carriage is decorated with vermilion paint, red chariot hubs, red mud screen, white chariot cover, red curtains, and forty cavalry attendants.
There are also minivans with red hubs and white hoods, which are used when being detained and escorted during pursuit investigations.
All chariots have red painted wheels, red scales and yoke.
Chasing the front chariot, except for the small and flat hood, plus the overall building, looks like a chariot with two horses.
The name "Chai Feng" comes from its speed, and it is used as a communication vehicle between military camps.
Zhen cha, an ancient military vehicle.
The one with one horse is called Tao Che, and the one with two horses is called Wang Chuan.
The Chui Dynasty valued the drafting and farming but not the carriages. The Wei Dynasty valued the drafting and farming but not the drafting and farming.
The chariots of generals of the third rank and above, ministers and ministers, etc. have black ears and have rear openings, while servants have only rear openings and no ears. They are all soap-colored wheels.
Shangshu and fourth-rank generals do not have rear doors and painted hubs and wheels.
If you are a member of the Zhongshu Supervisory Order, such as Pushe, Shizhong, Huangmen, or Sanqi, you can also ride on them during the first visit and the visit to the mausoleum temple.
The empress dowager and the queen's royal chariot ride on a gold-rooted chariot with a heavy Zhai feather chariot cover, green silk ropes and cyan curtains. The chariot shafts are painted with cloud patterns and deer-headed dragon patterns. They are painted with gold. The claws of the chariot cover are decorated with gold flowers. They drive three horses and there are Phi horses on the left and right.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
其庙见小驾，则乘紫罽軿车，云虡画辀，黄金涂五采，驾三。
非法驾则皇太后乘辇，皇后乘画轮车。
皇后先蚕，乘油画云母安车，驾六騩马；騩，浅黑色。
油画两辕安车，驾五騩马，为副。
又，金薄石山軿、紫绛罽軿车，皆驾三騩马，为副。
女旄头十二人，持棨戟二人，共载安车，俪驾。
女尚辇十二人，乘辎车，俪驾。
女长御八人，乘安车，俪驾。
三夫人油軿车，驾两马，左騑。
其贵人驾节画辀。
三夫人助蚕，乘青交路，安车，驾三，皆以紫绛罽軿车。
九嫔世妇乘軿车，驾三。
长公主赤罽軿车，驾两马。
公主、王太妃、王妃，皆油軿车，驾两马，右騑。
公主油画安车，驾三，青交路，以紫绛罽軿车驾三为副，王太妃、三夫人亦如之。
公主助蚕，乘油画安车，驾三。
公主有先置者，乘青交路安车，驾三。
诸王妃、公太夫人、夫人、县乡君、诸郡公侯特进夫人助蚕，乘皁交路安车，驾三。
诸侯监国世子之世妇、侍中常侍尚书中书监令卿校世妇、命妇助蚕，乘皁交路安车，俪驾。
郡县公侯、中二千石、二千石夫人会朝及蚕，各乘其夫之安车，皆右騑，皁交路，皁帷裳。
自非公会则不得乘轺车，止乘漆布辎軿，铜五采而已。
王妃、特进夫人、封郡君，安车，驾三，皁交路。
封县乡君油軿车，驾两马，右騑。
自过江之后，旧章多缺。
元帝践极，始造大路、戎路各一，皆即古金根之制也，无复充庭之仪。
至于郊祀大事，则权饰余车以周用。
六师亲征则用戎路，去其盖而乘之，属车但五乘而已。
加绿油幢，硃丝路，饰青交路，黄金涂五采，其轮毂犹素，两箱无金锦之饰。
其一车又是轺车，旧仪，天子所乘驾六，是时无复六马之乘，五路皆驾四而已，同用黑，是为玄牡。
无复五时车，有事则权以马车代之，建旗其上。
其后但以五色木牛象五时车，竖旗于牛背，行则使人舆之。
牛之义，盖取其负重致远安而稳也。
旗常缠而不舒旆，所谓德车结旌者也。
translation: 
If it is a young driver who meets in the temple, he will ride a purple kitchen plow cart with cloud patterns and deer-headed dragon patterns painted on the axle, painted with gold, and drive three horses.
If it is not the Dharma chariot, then the Empress Dowager rides the chariot, and the Empress rides the wheel cart.
The Queen worshiped the Silkworm God, riding on a mica chariot painted with oil paint and driving six horses; Xiao, light black.
The chariot is mounted with two shafts and painted with oil paint, and is driven by five Wei horses as auxiliary chariots.
In addition, there are Jin Boshi mountain plowing and Zijiang kitchen plowing carts, both of which drive three galloping horses as auxiliary carts.
Twelve women holding daggers and two holding honorary halberds rode together on the chariot, forming two rows.
Twelve women rode in the chariot, forming two rows.
Eight women, long chariots, formed two rows in safe chariots.
The third lady rode an oil plow cart and drove two horses, with a left Philip.
If you are a noble person, you can draw a scroll.
When the three ladies were assisting in worshiping the Silkworm God, they took a green road, installed a carriage, and drove three horses, all using purple kitchen plow carts.
The wife of the ninth concubine rides on a plow cart and drives three horses.
The eldest princess used a red kitchen plow cart and two horses.
The princess, the princess, and the princess all use oil carts and drive two horses, with a stallion on the right.
The princess used an oil-painted carriage with three horses and a green road, and a purple kitchen plow cart with three horses as a secondary carriage. The same was true for the princess and the third lady.
The princess assisted in the silkworm sacrifice ceremony, riding in an oil-painted carriage and driving three horses.
The princess, who was in the lead, took a carriage on Qingjiao Road and drove three horses.
The princesses, concubines, wives, county and township monarchs, and the wives of the princes and marquises of each county assisted in the silkworm sacrifice ceremony. They took a Zaojiao road and installed a carriage and drove three horses.
The wives of the crown princes of the feudal lords and governors of the country, the wives of the ministers, the ministers, the secretary, the secretary, the supervisor, the ministers, and the school, etc., assisted in the silkworm sacrifice ceremony. They took the Zaojiao road and installed the carriage, divided into two rows.
The princes of counties and counties, the wives of Zhong Erqianshi and Erqianshi attended court and participated in silkworm sacrifices. They each rode in their husbands' carriages, with right-hand horses, soap-colored roads and soap-colored curtains.
If it is not for official gatherings, you cannot take the court carriage, and you can only ride on the oilcloth plowing carriage and use copper and five kinds of materials.
The princess, Mrs. Tejin, the Duke of Feng County, etc., drove three horses in an carriage and crossed the road in white color.
The king of Feng County and Township used an oil plow cart and drove two horses, one of which was a right-hand horse.
Since the Liao Dynasty, most of the old regulations have been lost.
After Yuantong came to the throne, one car each for the main road and the military road was built. They were all of the specifications of the ancient golden root chariots, and there was no longer the grand occasion of filling the court.
Whenever there are important events such as suburban sacrifices, other cars are temporarily decorated for use.
When he led the Sixth Army on an expedition, he used the military road and took off its car cover to ride on it. There were only five cars for his entourage.
The car has green oil pillars, vermilion silk, decorated with cyan roads, and is painted with gold. The wheels of the car are still plain color, and the carriages on both sides are not decorated with gold and brocade.
One of the cars was heading towards the car again. In the old days, the emperor's chariot had six horses. At this time, there were no six-horse chariots. The five chariots all had only four horses. They also used black horses and were called Xuanmu.
There are no longer five-hour carriages. When necessary, they are replaced by horse-drawn carriages and flags are planted on them.
From now on, only five-color wooden oxen were used to symbolize the five o'clock carts, flags were erected on the backs of the oxen, and people were sent to load them in carts when traveling.
The reason for using oxen is that they can carry heavy loads for long distances and are stable.
The flag is often entangled and not allowed to fly, which is the so-called German car knot flag.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
惟天子亲戎，五旗舒旆，所谓武车绥旌者也。
指南车，过江亡失，及义熙五年，刘裕屠广固，始复获焉，乃使工人张纲补缉周用。
十三年，裕定关中，又获司南、记里诸车，制度始备。
其辇，过江亦亡制度，太元中谢安率意造焉，及破苻坚于淮上，获京都旧辇，形制无差，大小如一，时人服其精记。
义熙五年，刘裕执慕容超，获金钲辇、豹尾，旧式犹存。
元帝太兴三年，皇太子释奠。
制曰： 今草创，未有高车，可乘安车也。
太元中，东宫建，乘路有青赤旂，致疑。
徐邈议，太子既不备五路，赤旂宜省。
汉制，太子鸾路皆以安车为名。
自晋过江，礼仪疏舛，王公以下，车服卑杂，惟有东宫礼秩崇异，上次辰极，下纳侯王。
而安帝为皇太子乘石山安车，制如金路，义不经见，事无所出。
中宫初建及祀先蚕，皆用法驾，太仆妻御，大将军妻参乘，侍中妻陪乘，丹阳尹建康令及公卿之妻奉引，各乘其夫车服，多以宫人权领其职。
《周礼》，弁师掌六冕，司服掌六服。
自后王之制爰及庶人，各有等差。
及秦变古制，郊祭之服皆以袀玄，旧法扫地尽矣。
汉承秦弊，西京二百余年犹未能有所制立。
及中兴后，明帝乃始采《周官》、《礼记》、《尚书》及诸儒记说，还备衮冕之服。
天子车乘冠服从欧阳氏说，公卿以下从大小夏侯氏说，始制天子、三公、九卿、特进之服，侍祠天地明堂，皆冠旒冕，兼五冕之制，一服而已。
天子备十二章，三公诸侯用山龙九章，九卿以下用华虫七章，皆具五采。
translation: 
Only the emperor personally went out to fight, with all five flags unfurled, which is what is called Wu Che Sui Jing.
The compass was lost when crossing the river. It was not until the fifth year of Yixi that Liu Yu slaughtered Guanggu City and found it again. So he sent worker Zhang Gang to repair it and prepare it for later use.
In the 13th year, Liu Yu pacified Guanzhong and obtained Sinan chariots, Jili chariots, etc., and the chariots began to be fully equipped.
Speaking of the chariot, there was none after crossing the river. During the Taiyuan period, Xie An tried every means to make it. When he defeated Fu Jian on the Huaihe River and captured Kyoto, the old chariot had no difference in shape and specifications and was exactly the same size. At that time, people admired the accuracy of Xie An's memory.
In the fifth year of Yixi, Liu Yu captured Murong Chao and seized the golden chariot and leopard-tailed chariot. The old style was still preserved.
In the third year of Taixing reign of Emperor Yuan, the crown prince held a memorial ceremony for his release.
Zhi said: Now is the early stage, there are no high-speed vehicles, you can take Anqi.
In the middle of Zuoyuan Dynasty, the East Palace was built, and there were cyan and red flags in the road cars, which aroused doubts.
Xu Miao believed that since the prince did not use the five jurisdictions, the red flag should be omitted.
In the desert system, the prince's Luan Road is named after Anche.
Since the Eastern Jin Dynasty, the etiquette has been chaotic. Below the prince, the carriage and uniforms are simple and inconsistent. Only the etiquette of the palace is consistent with his status, below the emperor and above the princes.
When Emperor An was the crown prince, he rode a Shishan An chariot, which was shaped like Jin Ju. It makes no sense and has no precedent.
When the palace was just built and when the silkworms were sacrificed, they all used Dharma chariots. The servant's wife drove the chariot, the general's wife participated in the chariot, the servant's wife accompanied the chariot, and the wives of Yin and Xu Ling and the ministers served as guides. Each took their husband's chariot, and most of them used the palace authority and performed their duties on their behalf.
According to "Zhou Rites", Bianshi is in charge of the six crowns and Sifu is in charge of the six clothes.
From the emperor's uniform to the common people, each has its own level.
When Tong Fa changed the ancient system, all the costumes for suburban festivals were made of Gouxuan, and the old legal system was completely wiped out.
The Mo Dynasty inherited the bad system of the Qin Dynasty, and during the Yousai period for more than 200 years, no system could be formulated.
After the Zhongxing Dynasty, Emperor Gang began to adopt the records and opinions of "Zhou Guan", "Book of Rites", "Shang Shu" and various Confucian scholars, and restored Gun's crown clothing system.
The emperor's chariot-riding crown and uniform system adopted Ouyang's theory, and the chariot-riding crown and uniform system for officials and ministers below adopted the theory of Xia Houdi. They began to formulate the costumes of the emperor, three princes, nine ministers, and Tejin.
The emperor uses all twelve chapters, the three princes and princes use nine chapters such as mountain dragons, and the nine ministers and below use seven chapters such as Hua Chong, all of which have five colors.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
魏明帝以公卿衮衣黼黻之饰，疑于至尊，多所减损，始制天子服刺绣文，公卿服织成文。
及晋受命，遵而无改。
天子郊祀天地明堂宗庙，元会临轩，黑介帻，通天冠，平冕。
冕，皁表，硃绿里，广七寸，长二尺二寸，加于通天冠上，前圆后方，垂白玉珠，十有二旒，以硃组为缨，无緌。
佩白玉，垂珠黄大旒，绶黄赤缥绀四采。
衣皁上，绛下，前三幅，后四幅，衣画而裳绣，为日、月、星辰、山、龙、华虫、藻、火、粉米、黼、黻之象，凡十二章。
素带广四寸，硃里，以硃绿裨饰其侧。
中衣以绛缘其领袖。
赤皮为韨，绛袴袜，赤舄。
未加元服者，空顶介帻。
其释奠先圣，则皁纱袍，绛缘中衣，绛袴袜，黑舄，其临轩，亦衮冕也。
其朝服，通天冠高九寸，金博山颜，黑介帻，绛纱袍，皁缘中衣。
其拜陵，黑介帻，单衣。
其杂服，有青赤黄白缃黑色，介帻，五色纱袍，五梁进贤冠，远游冠，平上帻武冠。
其素服，白单衣。
后汉以来，天子之冕，前后旒用真白玉珠。
魏明帝好妇人之饰，改以珊瑚珠。
晋初仍旧不改。
及过江，服章多阙，而冕饰以翡翠珊瑚杂珠。
侍中顾和奏： 旧礼，冕十二旒，用白玉珠。
今美玉难得，不能备，可用白璇珠。
从之。
通天冠，本秦制。
高九寸，正竖，顶少斜却，乃直下，铁为卷梁，前有展筒，冠前加金博山述，乘舆所常服也。
translation: 
Emperor Wei Ming believed that the splendid attire of the ministers was similar to that of the supreme emperor, so he made a lot of derogations and began to stipulate that the clothes of the emperor should use embroidery patterns, and the clothes of the ministers should use woven patterns.
When the Jin Dynasty was established by destiny, it was still used without any change.
When the emperor worships the Tiandi Mingtang ancestral temple in the suburbs, or holds court meetings on New Year's Day or receives ministers in front of the palace, he wears a black frame, a crown that reaches the sky, and a flat crown.
The shape of the crown is soap-colored in appearance, wrapped in vermilion green, seven inches wide and one foot two inches long. It is worn on the crown of heaven, with the front round and the back, with white jade beads hanging down. There are twelve tassels in total, and the tassels are made of red silk ribbons. They are not short.
Wearing white jade, a large yellow pearl hangs down, and the ribbon is in four colors: yellow and red.
The upper garment is soap color and the lower garment is crimson color. There are three paintings on the front and four on the back. The upper garment has painted patterns while the lower garment has embroidered patterns, including moon, stars, mountains, dragons, Chinese insects, algae, fire, pink rice, embroidery, embroidery, etc., totaling twelve chapters.
The plain is four inches wide, wrapped in vermilion, and decorated with vermilion green trim on both sides.
The middle coat is decorated with crimson collar and sleeve edges.
Use red leather to make the urinary tract, crimson pantyhose, and red poncho.
When not wearing a crown, just wear a frame.
If it is the ancestor of Shi Dian, he should wear a soap-colored gauze robe, a middle coat with a crimson edge, crimson pantyhose, and a black jacket. If you are meeting your subordinates in front of the palace, you will also wear a Gongmian.
If it is a court dress, use a nine-inch tall crown, decorated with Jinbo Mountain on the forehead, a black frame, a crimson gauze robe, and a middle coat with a soap-colored edge.
If you are visiting the mausoleum, wear a black frame and single clothes.
If it is a miscellaneous dress, there are green, red, yellow, white, black and other colors, with an intermediate frame, a five-color gauze robe, a Wuliang Jinxian crown, a distant travel crown, and a flat upper frame martial crown.
If you are wearing plain clothes, wear a white clam hat and unlined upper garments.
Since the Later Han Dynasty, the emperor's crown has been made of white jade beads.
Emperor Wei Ming liked women's decorations and used coral beads instead.
In the early days of Jin Dynasty, the old rules were followed without any change.
After crossing the river, many clothing systems were no longer in place. As for the crown, it was decorated with jade and coral beads of various colors.
Gu He, the attendant, reported: In the old ritual system, the crown had twelve strands and white jade beads.
Nowadays, beautiful jade is very rare. If you can’t have all of them, you can use white xuanzhu.
Followed his advice.
The Tongtian Crown was originally a system of the Qin Dynasty.
Nine inches high, the front is upright, the top is slightly inclined backward, and then straight down. It is made of iron and rolled beams. There is an exhibition tube in front. The front of the crown is decorated with a mountain shape and kingfisher feathers. The emperor often wears this kind of crown.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
平冕，王公、卿助祭于郊庙服之。
王公八旒，卿七旒。
以组为缨，色如其绶。
王公衣山龙以下九章，卿衣华虫以下七章。
远游冠，傅玄云秦冠也。
似通天而前无山述，有展筒横于冠前。
皇太子及王者后、帝之兄弟、帝之子封郡王者服之。
诸王加官者自服其官之冠服，惟太子及王者后常冠焉。
太子则以翠羽为緌，缀以白珠，其余但青丝而已。
缁布冠，蔡邕云即委貌冠也。
太古冠布，齐则缁之。
缁布冠，始冠之冠也。
其制有四形，一似武冠，又一似进贤，其一上方其下如帻颜，其一刺上而方下。
行乡射礼则公卿委貌冠，以皁绢为之。
形如覆杯，与皮弁同制，长七寸，高四寸。
衣黑而裳素，其中衣以皁缘领袖。
其执事之人皮弁，以鹿皮为之。
进贤冠，古缁布遗象也，斯盖文儒者之服。
前高七寸，后高三寸，长八寸，有五梁、三梁、二梁、一梁。
人主元服，始加缁布，则冠五梁进贤。
三公及封郡公、县公、郡侯、县侯、乡亭侯，则冠三梁。
卿、大夫、八座，尚书，关中内侯、二千石及千石以上，则冠两梁。
中书郎、秘书丞郎、著作郎、尚书丞郎、太子洗马舍人、六百石以下至于令史、门郎、小史、并冠一梁。
汉建初中，太官令冠两梁，亲省御膳为重也。
博士两梁，崇儒也。
宗室刘氏亦得两梁冠，示加服也。
武冠，一名武弁，一名大冠，一名繁冠，一名建冠，一名笼冠，即古之惠文冠。
或曰赵惠文王所造，因以为名。
亦云，惠者蟪也，其冠文轻细如蝉翼，故名惠文。
translation: 
Pingmian is used by princes and ministers to assist sacrifices in suburban temples.
The prince's eight charms, the prince's seven charms.
Use a ribbon to make a tassel, the same color as the ribbon.
The prince's clothes are decorated with nine chapters below the Mountain Dragon, and the clothes of the prince are decorated with seven chapters below the Hua Chong.
Yuanyuan Guan, Fu Xuan said it was Qin Guan.
It is similar to the Tongtian Crown, but there is no mountain-shaped decoration and kingfisher feathers on the front. There is a spreading tube across the front of the crown.
It is used by the crown prince, the king's heir, the emperor's brother, and the emperor's son who are ennobled as county princes.
Those who have been promoted by each king wear their official uniforms. Only the prince and the king's heir often wear this kind of crown.
The prince used green feathers to make the dwarf and decorated it with white beads, while the others only used green silk.
Cai Yong said that the 缁cloth crown is the official crown.
At first, ordinary cloth was used, and Qi people dyed it black.
Zhenbu crown is the crown when there was first crown.
It has four shapes, one is like a military crown; another is like a crown for advancement; one has an upper part and a lower part like a frame; one has a pointed upper part and a lower part.
When performing the shooting ceremony in the countryside, the minister will wear a crown made of soap-colored silk.
It is shaped like a buckled cup, the same style as Pi Bian, seven inches long and four inches high.
The top is black and the lower part is plain. The middle part is decorated with soap color on the collar and the edges of the sleeves.
If you are a person in charge, you will wear a leather bean made of deerskin.
The Jinxian crown evolved from the ancient silk cloth crown and was generally worn by literati and Confucian scholars.
The front is seven inches high, the back is three inches high, and the length is eight inches. There are five-beam, three-beam, two-beam, and one-beam.
The master's Yuanfu only has a silk cloth, and he wears the Jinxian crown from Wuliang.
The three princes, as well as the enfeoffed county princes, county princes, county princes, county princes, and township pavilion princes, wear the three beams.
The ministers, officials, eight ministers, the marquises of Guanzhong and Guannei, those with two thousand stones, and those with more than one thousand stones, wear two beams.
Zhongshu Lang, Secretary Chenglang, Zuoshu Lang, Shangshu Chenglang, Prince Ximasheren, Lingshi, Mengshi and Xiaoshi with a price of less than 600 stones all wear a beam.
In the early years of the Han Dynasty, the Taiguan ordered Dai Liangliang to be responsible for the royal meal because it was very important.
Doctors wear Liangliang because they respect Confucian scholars.
The Liu family of the clan can also wear a crown with two beams, which means special clothing treatment.
Wu Guan, also known as Wu Bian, also known as Da Guan, also known as Fan Guan, also known as Jian Guan, also known as Cage Guan, is the ancient Hui Wen Guan.
Legend has it that it was invented by King Zhao Huiwen, so it was used as the name of the crown.
There is another saying that Hui is Li. This kind of crown is light and the patterns are as thin as cicada wings, so it is called Hui Wen.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
或云，齐人见千岁涸泽之神，名曰庆忌，冠大冠，乘小车，好疾驰，因象其冠而服焉。
汉幸臣闳孺为侍中，皆服大冠。
天子元服亦先加大冠，左右侍臣及诸将军武官通服之。
侍中、常侍则加金珰，附蝉为饰，插以貂毛，黄金为竿，侍中插左，常侍插右。
胡广曰： 昔赵武灵王为胡服，以金貂饰首。
秦灭赵，以其君冠赐侍臣。
应劭《汉官》云： 说者以为金取刚强，百炼不耗。
蝉居高饮清，口在掖下。
貂内劲悍而外柔缛。
又以蝉取清高饮露而不食，貂则紫蔚柔润而毛采不彰灼，金则贵其宝莹，于义亦有所取。
或以为北土多寒，胡人常以貂皮温额，后世效此，遂以附冠。
汉貂用赤黑色，王莽用黄貂，各附服色所尚也。
高山冠，一名侧注，高九寸，铁为卷梁，制似通天。
顶直竖，不斜却，无山述展筒。
高山者，《诗》云 高山仰止 ，取其矜庄宾远者也。
中外官、谒者、谒者仆射所服。
胡广曰： 高山，齐王冠也。
傅曰 桓公好高冠大带 。
秦灭齐，以其君冠赐谒者近臣。
应劭曰： 高山，今法冠也，秦行人使官亦服之。
而《汉官仪》云 乘舆冠高山之冠，飞翮之缨 ，然则天子亦有时服焉。
《傅子》曰： 魏明帝以其制似通天、远游，故改令卑下。
法冠，一名柱后，或谓之獬豸冠。
高五寸，以縰为展筒。
铁为柱卷，取其不曲挠也。
侍御史、廷尉正监平，凡执法官皆服之。
或谓獬豸神羊，能触邪佞。
《异物志》云： 北荒之中，有兽名獬豸，一角，性别曲直。
见人斗，触不直者。
闻人争，咋不正者。
translation: 
It is also said that people investigating the land saw a god named Qingji in a swamp that had dried up for thousands of years. He wore a big crown, rode a small car, and liked to run quickly, so he imitated his crown and wore it.
The lucky ministers, daughters and children of the Mo Dynasty served as servants, and they all wore big crowns.
The emperor also wore a large crown as his hat, and all the courtiers on the left and right, as well as the generals and military attachés wore it.
The ones worn by the middle and regular servants are decorated with gold coins, decorated with cicadas, ermine hairs, and gold poles. The ones worn by the middle servants are on the left and the regular servants are on the right.
Hu Guang said: Once upon a time, King Wu Ling wore Hu clothes and decorated his hat with gold mink.
The state of Qin reduced the state of Zhao and gave the crown of the king of Zhao to his courtiers.
Ying Shao's "Han Palace" said: Commentators believe that gold symbolizes strength, which can be refined without loss.
Cicadas live high up and drink dew, but their mouths are hidden under their armpits.
Minks are strong on the inside but soft and delicate on the outside.
Some people think that cicadas use it to drink dew and not eat anything else, minks use it to be purple and soft but the coat color is not dazzling and clear, and gold values ​​​​it because it is precious and crystal clear, which is logically acceptable.
Some people think that there is a lot of cold in the north, and the Hu people often use mink fur to warm their foreheads. Later generations of people imitated this and used it to attach to their crowns.
The Han Dynasty used red and black mink, and Wang Mang used yellow mink, each matching the color of the clothes he admired.
Alpine crown, also known as side note, is nine inches high, made of rolled iron beams, and looks like a sky-reaching crown.
The top is upright, not tilted backward, and there are no decorations such as mountain display tubes.
The reason why it is called a high mountain is because it is said in the Book of Songs that "the high mountain looks up to the sky" because of its reserve and solemnity, which makes people from afar come and surrender.
Chinese and foreign officials, visitors, and servants of visitors wear it.
Hu Guang said: High mountains are the crown of Qi.
"The Biography" says: Duke Huan liked high crowns and large belts.
The state of Qin destroyed the state of Qi and gave the crown of the king of Qi to Ye Zhe and other nearby officials.
Ying Shao said: The high mountain is the current crown, and Qin's diplomatic envoys also wear it.
However, "Han Gong Yi" says that the emperor wears a high mountain crown and uses flying feathers as a tassel, which means that the emperor sometimes wears this kind of crown.
"Fu Zi" said: Emperor Wei Ming ordered it to be changed into a simpler one because its shape was similar to the Tongtian Crown and the Yuanyou Crown.
The Dharma Crown is also called the Queen of Pillars, and some people call it the Haezhi Crown.
Five inches high, use the vertical axis as a display tube.
Use iron to make the pillars and scrolls, taking advantage of its unbendable nature.
Shi Yushi, Ting Wei, Zheng Jianping, and all law enforcement officials wear it.
Some people say that Haechi is a divine sheep, able to identify and resist evil people.
"Foreign Object Chronicles" says: In the northern wilderness, there is a beast called the Haechi. It has one horn and can distinguish right from wrong.
When you see people fighting, use your horns to butt the unreasonable party.
When you hear someone arguing, yell at the incorrect party.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
楚王尝获此兽，因象其形以制衣冠。
胡广曰： 《春秋左氏传》晋侯观于军府，见钟仪，曰 南冠而絷者谁也 ？
南冠即楚冠。
秦灭楚，以其冠服赐执法臣也。
长冠，一名齐冠。
高七寸，广三寸，漆纚为之，制如版，以竹为里。
汉高祖微时，以竹皮为此冠，其世因谓刘氏冠。
后除竹用漆纚。
司马彪曰： 长冠盖楚制。
人间或谓之鹊尾冠，非也。
救日蚀则服长冠，而祠宗庙诸祀冠之。
此高祖所造，后世以为祭服，尊敬之至也。
建华冠，以铁为柱卷，贯大铜珠九枚，古用杂木珠，原宪所冠华冠是也。
又《春秋左氏传》郑子臧好聚鹬冠，谓建华是也。
祀天地、五郊、明堂，舞人服之。
汉《育命舞》乐人所服。
方山冠，其制似进贤。
郑展曰： 方山冠，以五采縠为之。
汉《大予》、《八佾》、《五行》乐人所服，冠衣各如其行方之色而舞焉。
巧士冠，前高七寸，要后相通，直竖。
此冠不常用，汉氏惟郊天，黄门从官四人冠之；在卤簿中，夹乘舆车前，以备宦者四星。
或云，扫除从官所服。
却非冠，高五寸，制似长冠。
宫殿门吏仆射冠之。
负赤幡，青翅燕尾，诸仆射幡皆如之。
却敌冠，前高四寸，通长四寸，后高三寸，制似进贤。
凡当殿门卫士服之。
樊哙冠，广九寸，高七寸，前后出各四寸，制似平冕。
昔楚汉会于鸿门，项籍图危高祖，樊哙常持铁楯，闻急，乃裂裳苞楯，戴以为冠，排入羽营，因数羽罪，汉王乘间得出。
后人壮其意，乃制冠象焉。
凡殿门司马卫士服之。
术氏冠，前圆，吴制，差池四重。
赵武灵王好服之。
或曰，楚庄王复仇冠是也。
鹖冠，加双鹖尾，竖插两边。
translation: 
The king of Chu once obtained this beast, so he imitated its appearance and made clothes.
Hu Guang said: "The Biography of the Zuo Family in the Spring and Autumn Period" records that the Marquis of Jin inspected the military mansion, saw Zhong Yi, and asked who was the person who was tied up wearing a Nanguan?
Nan Guan is Chu Guan.
The Qin State destroyed the Chu State and gave the Chu State's crown and uniform to its ministers who were enforcing the law.
Long crown, also called Qi crown.
It is seven inches high and three inches wide. It is made of lacquered rope gauze, shaped like an image board, and wrapped with bamboo.
Before Mo Gaozu became famous, he used bamboo skin to make this kind of crown. Therefore, it was called Liu's crown in the Han Dynasty.
Later, paint-coated rope gauze was used instead of bamboo.
Sima Biao said: The long crown was invented by the state of Chu.
Some people call it a magpie-tail crown, which is wrong.
The long crown is worn when rescuing food, and is also worn when performing various sacrifices such as the ancestral temple.
This was made by Emperor Gaozu and later generations used it as sacrificial robes and were highly respected.
To build a crown, iron pillars and rolls were used, and nine large copper beads were put on them. In ancient times, mixed wooden beads were used. This was the crown worn by Yuan Xian.
In addition, "The Biography of the Zuo Family in the Spring and Autumn Period" records that Zang Zang of the State of Zheng liked to gather snipe crowns, which refers to Jianhua Crown.
Dancers wear it when offering sacrifices to the heaven and earth, the five suburbs and the bright hall.
The musician of Modai's "Yu Ming Dance" wears it.
Fangshan crown, its style is like Jinxian crown.
Deng Zhan said: The square mountain crown is made of colorful hubs.
Musicians of the "Dayu", "Bayi" and "Five Elements" in the Han Dynasty wore it. The colors of their crowns and clothes were determined according to the colors of the five elements in which they were located, and then they danced while wearing them.
The Qiaoshi crown is seven inches high in front, connected to the waist and back, and stands upright.
This kind of crown is not often worn. In the Mo Dynasty, it was only worn by four Huangmen officials when worshiping heaven in the suburbs. In the honor guard queue when traveling, it was sandwiched in front of the emperor's car to indicate that he had the four stars of an eunuch.
Some say it was worn by officials such as sweepers.
But it is not a crown, it is five inches high and shaped like a long crown.
The palace servants shot and wore it.
There are red flags behind the crown and green hat wings and swallowtail-shaped decorations. The flags shot by each servant are like this.
But the enemy's crown is four inches high in front, four inches long in its entirety, and three inches high in the back. It is shaped like a Jinxian crown.
All the guards on duty at the palace gate wear it.
Fan Shaguan is nine inches wide, seven inches high, and extends four inches at the front and back. It is shaped like a flat crown.
In the past, when Chu and Han met at Hongmen, Xiang Ji plotted to kill Zhisu. Fan Chui usually carried an iron string. When he heard that the situation was urgent, he tore his clothes and wrapped Zhi, wore the book as a crown, broke into Xiang Yu's camp, and then accused Xiang Yu of his crimes. The king of Han found an opportunity to escape from there.
Later generations thought that Fan Sha was ambitious and brave, so they made crowns to imitate him.
All the palace guards and Sima guards wear it.
Shu's crown is round in front, made in the state of Wu, and has four uneven layers.
King Wuling likes to wear it.
Some people say that this is the revenge crown of King Zhuang of Chu.
A cuckoo crown, plus a pair of babbler tails, inserted vertically on both sides.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
鹖，鸟名也，形类鹞而微黑，性果勇，其斗到死乃止。
上党贡之，赵武灵王以表显壮士。
至秦汉，犹施之武人。
皮弁，以鹿皮浅毛黄白色者为之。
《礼》 王皮弁，会五采玉綦，象邸玉笄 ，谓之合皮为弁。
其缝中名曰会，以采玉硃为綦。
綦，结也。天子五采，诸侯三采。邸，冠下抵也，象骨为之，音帝也。天子则缝十二，公侯伯七，子男五，孤四，卿大夫三。
韦弁，制似皮弁，顶上尖，韎草染之，色如浅绛。
爵弁，一名广冕。
高八寸，长尺二寸，如爵形，前小后大。
增其上似爵头色。
有收持笄，所谓夏收殷哻者也。
祠天地、五郊、明堂，《云翘舞》乐人服之。
帻者，古贱人不冠者之服也。
汉元帝额有壮发，始引帻服之。
王莽顶秃，又加其屋也。
《汉注》曰，冠进贤者宜长耳，今介帻也。
冠惠文者宜短耳，今平上帻也。
始时各随所宜，遂因冠为别。
介帻服文吏，平上帻服武官也。童子帻无屋者，示不成人也。
又有纳言帻，帻后收又一重，方三寸。
又有赤帻，骑吏、武吏、乘舆鼓吹所服。
救日蚀，文武官皆免冠著帻，对朝服，示武威也。
汉仪，立秋日猎，服缃帻。
及江左，哀帝从博士曹弘之等议，立秋御读令，改用素白。
案汉末王公名士多委王服，以幅巾为雅，是以袁绍、崔钧之徒，虽为将帅，皆著缣巾。
魏武以天下凶荒，资财乏匮，拟古皮弁，裁缣帛以为，合乎简易随时之义，以色别其贵贱，本施军饰，非为国容也。
translation: 
Babbler is a black name. It looks like a gull and is slightly black. It has a bold and brave character. Once they fight, they will not stop until they die.
Shangdang brought this kind of thing as tribute, and King Wuling used it to commend the heroes.
In the Qin and Han Dynasties, it was still used among soldiers.
Pi Bian is made of light yellowish-white deerskin.
"Li" says that the king wore a leather Bian, painted it with five colors and used jade as a Zan, and ivory as a jade hairpin, which is called a combination of leather and hairpins.
The seam in the middle is called Hui, made of colorful jade beads. Jing, Zan, means knot.
The emperor uses five colors, and the princes use three colors. Di, the butt of the lower part of the crown, is made of elephant bone, Yin Emperor. There are twelve seams for the emperor, nine seams for the prince, seven seams for Hou Bo, five seams for son-in-law, four seams for Gu Qing, and three seams for doctor Qing.
Wei Bian is shaped like Pi Bian with a pointed top. It is dyed with hay and has a color similar to light crimson.
Bird Bian, also called Guangmian.
It is eight inches high and one foot two inches long. It is shaped like a bird, smaller in front and larger in back.
The color of the silk thread used on it is similar to that of a sparrow's head.
The hair is tied up and then hairpins are inserted to create the so-called humiliating crown of the Xia Dynasty.
When the temple offers sacrifices to the heaven and earth, the five suburbs and the bright hall, the musicians who perform "Yunqiao Dance" wear it.
Anger was worn by people with low status in ancient times who did not wear a crown.
The five children of the Han Dynasty had thick hair on their foreheads, so they began to use frames to make them docile.
Wang Cha was bald, so he grew taller and looked like a house.
"Han Notes" says that when wearing the Jinxian crown, a frame with long ears should be used, but now it is used with a frame.
When wearing a Hui Wen crown, a frame with short ears should be used, but now a flat upper frame is used.
At first, everyone followed suit, so there were differences according to different crowns.
The civil servant Dai Jie framed it, and the military attaché Dai Ping framed it. The child's frame has no house to show that he has not yet become an adult.
In addition, there is a Nayan gauze, the frame is one layer behind the gauze, three inches square.
There are also red frames, which are used by cavalry officials, military officials, and riding officials to promote propaganda.
When rescuing food, civil and military officials would remove their crowns and wear frames and court uniforms to show their power.
The etiquette of falling babies, hunting in the early autumn, Dai Xiang is angry.
During the period of embezzlement, Zhitong followed the advice of Dr. Xuan Zhisi and others, and on the day of the Beginning of Autumn, he used plain white clams instead.
Most of the princes and celebrities in the late Han Dynasty did not wear royal clothes, but wore scarves as a fashionable thing. Therefore, Yuan Shao, Cui Gou and others, although they were generals, all wore scarves.
Due to the famine in the world and the lack of money and property, Emperor Wu of Wei imitated the ancient skin bean and cut silk into clams. It was in line with the principle of simplicity and adaptability to the current situation. The use of color to distinguish high and low was originally used for military clothing, not as a national clothing standard.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
徐爰曰： 俗说本未有岐，荀文若巾之行，触树枝成岐，谓之为善，因而弗改。
今通以为庆吊服。
巾，以葛为之，形如而横著之，古尊卑共服也。
故汉末妖贼以黄为巾，世谓黄巾贼。
帽名犹冠也，义取于蒙覆其首，其本纚也。
古者冠无帻，冠下有纚，以缯为之。
后世施帻于冠，因或裁缨为帽。
自乘舆宴居，下至庶人无爵者皆服之。
成帝咸和九年，制听尚书八座丞郎、门下三省侍官乘车，白低帏，出入掖门。
又，二宫直官著乌纱。
然则往往士人宴居皆著矣。
而江左时野人已著帽，人士亦往往而然，但其顶圆耳，后乃高其屋云。
汉制，自天子至于百官，无不佩剑，其后惟朝带剑。
晋世始代之以木，贵者犹用玉首，贱者亦用蚌、金银、玳瑁为雕饰。
乘舆六玺，秦制也。
曰 皇帝行玺 、 皇帝之玺 、 皇帝信玺 、 天子行玺 、 天子之玺 、 天子信玺 ，汉遵秦不改。
又有秦始皇蓝田玉玺，螭兽纽，在六玺之外，文曰 受天之命，皇帝寿昌 。
汉高祖佩之，后世名曰传国玺，与斩白蛇剑俱为乘舆所宝。
斩白蛇剑至惠帝时武库火烧之，遂亡。
及怀帝没胡，传国玺没于刘聪，后又没于石勒。
及石季龙死，胡乱，穆帝世乃还江南。
革带，古之鞶带也，谓之鞶革，文武众官牧守丞令下及驺寺皆服之。
其有囊绶，则以缀于革带，其戎服则以皮络带代之。
八坐尚书荷紫，以生紫为袷囊，缀之服外，加于左肩。
昔周公负成王，制此服衣，至今以为朝服。
或云汉世用盛奏事，负之以行，未详也。
translation: 
Xu Yuan said: It is said that the clam originally had no forks. Xun Wenruo walked with it and encountered branches and formed forks. He thought it was good and continued to use it without any change.
Nowadays, it is used as a kind of clothing for celebrations and condolences.
The scarf is made of kudzu, shaped like a clam and worn horizontally. In ancient times, it was worn by everyone regardless of superiority or inferiority.
Therefore, the demon thieves in Momo wear yellow scarves, and the world calls them yellow scarf thieves.
The name "cap" is equivalent to a crown, which means a cap covering the head. It was originally a cable.
When the ancients wore the crown, there was no frame. There was a rope under the crown, which was made of Zeng.
Later generations wore crowns with frames, so some people cut them into hats.
From the emperor's banquet to the common people without titles, they all wore it.
In the ninth year of Emperor Cheng's Xianhe reign, it was stipulated that eight ministers and ministers from the three provinces under his command were allowed to wear white clams and low curtains when traveling in and out of Yemen.
In addition, Dai Wushaqia, the official of the Second Palace.
However, scholars often wore clams when having banquets.
However, people in mountain villages during the Shu and Jin Dynasties already knew how to wear hats, and ordinary people often wore them that way, except that the top of the hat was round, and later it was raised to form a house.
In Modai's system, from the emperor to the officials, no one did not wear a sword. From then on, they only wore swords when going to court.
Only in the Jin Dynasty did wooden swords begin to be used instead. People with high status also used jade to decorate sword hilts, while those with low status also used crickets, gold, silver, and tortoiseshell as carvings.
The emperor has six seals, which was the system of the Qin Dynasty.
They are the Emperor's Seal, the Emperor's Seal, the Emperor's Letter, the Emperor's Seal, the Emperor's Seal, and the Emperor's Letter. Mo Dai followed the Qin Dynasty without any change.
In addition, there is the Lantian Jade Seal of Qin Shihuang. The button is in the shape of a Chi animal. Outside the six seals, the seal text is "Accepting the order of heaven, the emperor will be Shouchang".
Mo Gaozu wore it, and later generations called it the Imperial Seal. Together with the sword that killed the white snake, it was treasured by the emperor.
When the sword that killed the White Snake reached Emperor Huiwen, it was lost because the arsenal was on fire.
When Emperor Huai was captured by the Hu people, the imperial seal was handed over to Liu Cong, and later to Hu Shao.
He did not return to the south of the Yangtze River until after the death of Hu Xiewei and the civil strife among the Hu people.
The leather belt is the belt in ancient times, called Qingge. All civil and military officials, including Mu Shou Cheng, used it when they came to Ou Temple.
If there is a pouch to hold the seal ribbon, put it on the leather belt. If it is a military uniform, use a leather belt instead.
The eight-seat minister carries a purple bag, which is made of raw purple and is embellished on the outside of the court clothes and carried on his left shoulder.
Once upon a time, the Duke of Zhou became a king on his back and began to make this kind of clothing, which is still used as a court uniform today.
Some people say that in the Han Dynasty, it was used to carry documents for memorial, and it was easy to carry on the back, but it is not clear exactly how.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
车前五百者，卿行旅从，五百人为一旅。
汉氏一统，故去其人，留其名也。
袴褶之制，未详所起，近世凡车驾亲戎、中外戒严服之。
服无定色，冠黑帽，缀紫摽，摽以缯为之，长四寸，广一寸，腰有络带以代鞶。
中官紫摽，外官绛摽。
又有纂严戎服而不缀摽，行留文武悉同。
其畋猎巡幸，则惟从官戎服带鞶革，文官不下缨，武官脱冠。
汉制，一岁五郊，天子与执事者所服各如方色，百官不执事者服常服绛衣以从。
魏秘书监秦静曰： 汉氏承秦，改六冕之制，但玄冠绛衣而已。
魏已来名为五时朝服，又有四时朝服，又有朝服。
自皇太子以下随官受给。
百官虽服五时朝服，据今止给四时朝服，阙秋服。
三年一易。
诸假印绶而官不给鞶囊者，得自具作，其但假印不假绶者，不得佩绶鞶，古制也。
汉世著鞶囊者，侧在腰间，或谓之傍囊，或谓之绶囊，然则以紫囊盛绶也。
或盛或散，各有其时。
笏，古者贵贱皆执笏，其有事则搢之于腰带，所谓搢绅之士者，搢笏而垂绅带也。
绅垂长三尺。
笏者，有事则书之，故常簪笔，今之白笔是其遗象。
三台五省二品文官簪之，王、公、侯、伯、子、男、卿尹及武官不簪，加内侍位者乃簪之。
手版即古笏矣。
尚书令、仆射、尚书手版头复有白笔，以紫皮裹之，名曰笏。
皇太子金玺龟钮，硃黄绶，四采：赤、黄、缥、绀。
给五时朝服、远游冠，介帻、翠緌。
佩瑜玉，垂组。
translation: 
The so-called five hundred people in front of the car means that you are accompanied by a brigade when traveling. Five hundred people are a brigade.
Modai unified the world, so he no longer used those people, but left this name.
The origin of the system of trousers pleats is not clear yet. In modern times, they were usually worn by imperial commanders during military campaigns and during martial law inside and outside.
There is no prescribed color for the clothing. He wears a black hat and is decorated with a purple turban. The turban is made of bamboo poles, four inches long and one inch wide. There is a belt around the waist to replace the qing.
The middle officer is decorated with a purple bow, and the outer officer is decorated with a purple bow.
In addition, there are military uniforms without markings during martial law, and it is the same for civil and military officials traveling around the country.
If it is a hunting inspection, only the accompanying officials will wear military uniforms and leather jackets, while the civilian officials will not take off their tassels and the military attachés will take off their hats.
According to the system of the Han Dynasty, there were five suburban sacrifices in a year. The emperor and the officials in charge wore clothes according to the colors of the five directions. Officials who were not in charge, such as Baiguan, wore ordinary clothes and entourage in crimson clothes.
Qin Jing, Secretary Supervisor of Wei, said: The Han family inherited the Qin Dynasty, changed the system of six crowns, and only used Xuanguan and Jiangyi.
Since the Wei Dynasty, it has been called the five-season court dress, the four-season dress, and the court dress.
Awarded based on official position from the crown prince on down.
Although all officials should wear the five-season court dress, based on the current situation, it seems that they are only given the four-season dress and lack the autumn dress.
Replace every three years.
Anyone who acts as an agent but does not have enough official position to get a purse can prepare it himself. If he only uses a seal but not a ribbon, he cannot wear the ribbon. Qing is an ancient system.
In the Han Dynasty, those who wore a zhao bag were worn on the side of their waists. They were also called side bags and ribbon bags, which means they used a purple bag to hold the ribbon.
Sometimes I pretend to be, sometimes I don't, and I have encountered each other before.
Wat. In ancient times, everyone regardless of high or low held a Wat. If something happened, they would put it on their belts. The so-called gentry men meant that they would wear a Wat and hang down their belts.
The hanging part of the belt is three feet long.
Wat is used to write down things on it, so the pen is often used to make hairpins. Today's white pen evolved from this.
Second-rank civil servants in Santai and Five Provinces use hairpins. Kings, dukes, marquises, uncles, sons, men, ministers and military officers do not use hairpins. Only those with the status of chamberlain use hairpins.
Shouban is the ancient wat.
The heads of Shangshu Ling, Pushe and Shangshu also have white pens wrapped in purple leather, which are called wats.
The golden seal used by the crown prince has a turtle-shaped button, a red and yellow ribbon, and four colors: red, yellow, ethereal, and cyanotic.
He was given court clothes at five o'clock, a crown for traveling far away, a medium frame, and green dwarfs.
What she wears is jade, which hangs down.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
硃衣绛纱襮，皁缘白纱，其中衣白曲领。
带剑，火珠素首。
革带，玉钩燮兽头鞶囊。
其大小会、祠宗庙、朔望、五日还朝皆朝服，常还上宫则硃服，预上宫正会则于殿下脱剑舄。
又有三梁进贤冠。
其侍祀则平冕九旒，衮衣九章，白纱绛缘中单，绛缯韠，采画织成衮带，金辟邪首，紫绿二色带，采画广领、曲领各一，赤舄绛袜。
若讲，则著介帻单衣。释奠，则远游冠，玄朝服，绛缘中单，绛袴袜，玄舄。
若未加元服，则中舍人执冕从，介帻单衣玄服。
诸王金玺龟钮，纁硃绶，四采：硃、黄、缥、绀。
五时朝服，远游冠介帻，亦有三梁进贤冠。
硃衣绛纱襮皁缘，中衣表素。
革带，黑舄，佩山玄玉，垂组，大带。
若加余官，则服其加官之服也。
皇后谒庙，其服皁上皁下，亲蚕则青上缥下，皆深衣制，隐领，袖缘以绦。
首饰则假髻，步摇，俗谓之珠松是也，簪珥。
步摇以黄金为山题，贯白珠为支相缪。
八爵九华，熊、兽、赤罴、天鹿、辟邪、南山丰大特六兽，诸爵兽皆以翡翠为毛羽，金题白珠榼，绕以翡翠为华。
元康六年，诏曰： 魏以来皇后蚕服皆以文绣，非古义也。
今宜纯服青，以为永制。
贵人、夫人、贵嫔，是为三夫人，皆金章紫绶，章文曰贵人、夫人、贵嫔之章。
佩于阗玉。
淑妃、淑媛、淑仪、修华、修容、修仪、婕妤、容华、充华，是为九嫔，银印青绶，佩采瓄玉。
translation: 
The vermillion top has a crimson gauze collar, soap-colored edges and white gauze, and the middle coat has a white curved collar.
Wearing a sword, the hilt is wrapped in plain material and decorated with fire beads.
Use leather belts, jade hooks and animal heads to hold the bags.
Court attire is worn at large and small court gatherings, at ancestral temples, at Shuo Riwang, and at Wuhuan dynasty. When returning to the upper palace, they usually wear red robes. When attending formal gatherings in the upper palace, they undress their swords and take off their harness at the foot of the palace steps.
There is also the Jinxian Crown of Sanliang.
If you are a priest, you should wear a flat crown with nine hairpins, a robe decorated with nine chapters, a middle singlet of white gauze with a crimson edge, a dart made of crimson silk, a gon belt woven with colorful paintings, a head shape made of gold to ward off evil spirits, purple and green belts, a pair of wide collars and curved collars with colorful paintings, and red and crimson socks.
If it is a lecture, wear a frame and single clothes; if it is a memorial ceremony, wear a traveling crown, black court clothes, a middle single with a crimson edge, crimson trousers and socks, and a black jacket.
If there is no such thing as Dai Yuanfu, Zhongshe will hold the crown and follow him, while Dai Jiejian will wear a single Xuanfu.
The golden seals used by each king have a turtle-shaped button, a red ribbon, and four colors: vermilion, yellow, 缶, and pincer.
In the court dress of the Five Periods, some wore Yuanyou crown and Jie frame, and some wore Sanliang Jinxian crown.
The vermilion garment has nude crimson gauze and soap-colored edges, and the middle garment fabric is plain color.
The belt is made of leather and black, and it is worn with mountain xuan jade. It has a hanging group and a large belt.
If you have other official titles, wear the clothes of his official title.
When the queen visits the ancestral temple, she wears a soap-colored top and soap-colored lower skirt. When performing the wedding ceremony, she wears a cyan top and a pale lower skirt. They are all in the style of dark clothes, with hidden collars and sleeve edges decorated with tape.
The headdress is a fake bun and a step, which is called Zhusong in the common saying, and hairpins and earrings.
For Bu Yao, gold should be used as the mountain title, and white beads should be used as the branches to surround it.
There are eight nobles and nine flowers, six beasts: bear, tiger, Chizhao, Tianlu, ward off evil spirits, and Nanshan Fengda. All kinds of birds and beasts are made of jade for their hair and feathers. The gold inscription is made of white beads, and the flowers are made of jade.
In the sixth year of Yuankang, Shao Shu said: Since the Wei Dynasty, the silkworm clothing of queens has been embroidered, which does not conform to the ancient meaning.
Now it has been changed to cyan pure server as a permanent system.
Nobleman, Madam, and Noble Concubine. These are the three ladies. They all wear gold seals and purple ribbons. The inscriptions are called the Seal of Nobleman, Madam, and Noble Concubine.
Wear jade produced in Yusai.
Shufei, Shuyuan, Shuyi, Xiuhua, Xiurong, Xiuyi, Jieyu, Ronghua, and Chonghua are the nine concubines, with green ribbons printed with silver and colorful jade.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
贵人、贵嫔、夫人助蚕，服纯缥为上与下，皆深衣制。
太平髻，七钅奠蔽髻，黑玳瑁，又加簪珥。
九嫔及公主、夫人五钅奠，世妇三钅奠。
助蚕之义，自古而然矣。
皇太子妃金玺龟钮，纁硃绶，佩瑜玉。
诸王太妃、妃、诸长公主、公主、封君金印紫绶，佩山玄玉。
长公主、公主见会，太平髻，七钅奠蔽髻。
其长公主得有步摇，皆有簪珥，衣服同制。
自公主、封君以上皆带绶，以彩组为绲带，各如其绶色，金辟邪首为带玦。
郡公侯县公侯太夫人，夫人银印青绶，佩水苍玉，其特加乃金紫。
公特进侯卿校世妇、中二千石二千石夫人绀缯帼，黄金龙首衔白珠，鱼须擿长一尺为簪珥。
入庙佐祭者皁绢上下。助蚕者缥绢上下，皆深衣制缘。
自二千石夫人以上至皇后，皆以蚕衣为朝服。
translation: 
The nobles, concubines, and wives assisted in the silkworm ceremony, and the tops and bottoms they wore were pure sheer color, and they were all in the style of dark clothes.
The bun is covered with seven golden flowers, black tortoiseshell, and hairpins and earrings.
The ninth concubine, the princess, and the madam use five golden flowers, and the married woman uses three golden flowers.
The principle of helping silkworms has been like this since ancient times.
The Crown Princess wears a gold seal with a turtle-shaped button, a red ribbon, and jade.
The royal concubines, princesses, eldest princesses, princesses, and lords all wore purple ribbons printed with gold and wore mountain xuan jade.
When the eldest princess or princess goes to court or attends a meeting, she wears a bun and covers her hair with seven golden flowers.
If she is the eldest princess, she can have steps, hairpins and earrings, and the clothes should be of the same style.
From the princess to the lord and above, everyone wears a ribbon. The ribbon is made of colored silk, which is consistent with the color of the ribbon, and the head of a gold evil-proofing animal is used as the ribbon block.
The wives and concubines of county princes or county princes wear green ribbons with silver seals and beryl. If they have special titles, they wear purple ribbons with gold seals.
The wife of Duke Hete who entered Hou Qing's school, the wife of Erqianshi and Erqianshi, wore a cyan-colored silk gauze, with a golden dragon head holding white pearls, and fish whiskers gathered up to one foot long to make a hairpin.
Those who enter the ancestral temple to assist in sacrifices wear upper and lower garments made of soap-colored silk, and those who assist in worshiping the Silkworm God wear upper and lower garments made of ethereal silk. They are all in the style and trimmings of dark garments.
From Mrs. Erqianshi to the queen, the clothes worn when worshiping the Silkworm God were used as court clothes when going to court.


