Chunk 0: 
original: 
西域以孝武时始通，本三十六国，其后稍分至五十余，皆在匈奴之西，乌孙之南。
南北有大山，中央有河，东西六千余里，南北千余里。
东则接汉，厄以玉门、阳关，西则限以葱岭。
其南山，东出金城，与汉南山属焉。
其河有两原：一出葱岭出，一出于阗。
于阗在南山下，其河北流，与葱岭河合，东注蒲昌海。
蒲昌海，一名盐泽者也，去玉门、阳关三百余里，广袤三四百里。
其水亭居，冬夏不增减，皆以为潜行地下，南出于积石，为中国河云。
自玉门、阳关出西域有两道：从鄯善傍南山北，波河西行至莎车，为南道，南道西逾葱岭则出大月氏、安息。
自车师前王廷随北山，波河西行至疏勒，为北道，北道西逾葱岭则出大宛、康居、奄蔡焉。
translation: 
The Western Regions began to communicate with the Central Plains from the time of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty. There were originally thirty-six countries in that area. Later, it was gradually divided into more than fifty kingdoms, all of which were located to the west of the Xiongnu and south of the Wusun.
The Western Region has large mountains in the north and south, and a river in the center. It is more than 6,000 miles wide from east to west and more than 1,000 miles long from north to south.
It is connected to the Han Dynasty in the east, with Yumen Pass and Yang Pass as dangerous fortresses, and Congling as the boundary in the west.
Its Nanshan Mountain starts from Jincheng County and is connected to the Nanshan Mountain of the Han Dynasty.
Its river has two sources: one originates from Congling Mountain and the other originates from Khotan.
Khotan is at the foot of Nanshan Mountain. The river flows north, merges with the Congling River, and then flows eastward into the Puchang Sea.
Puchanghai, also known as Yanze, is more than 300 miles away from Yumenguan and Yangguan. The length and width of the lake are about 300 miles.
The lake water is stable and does not increase or decrease in winter and summer. The lake water flows underground and emerges from Jishi Mountain to the south, which is the Huanghui in the Central Plains.
There are two roads from Yumenguan and Yangguan to the Western Regions. From Shanshan, follow the north side of Nanshan and go west along the Tarim River to Yarkand, which is the south road; the south road goes west across Congling to reach Dayuezhi and Anxi.
From Cheshiqian Wangting, follow the south side of Beishan and go west along the Tarim River to Shule, which is the north road: the north road goes west across Congling to reach Dawan, Kangju, and Yancai.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
西域诸国大率土著，有城郭田畜，与匈奴、乌孙异俗，故皆役属匈奴。
匈奴西边日逐王置僮仆都尉，使领西域，常居焉耆、危须、尉黎间，赋税诸国，取富给焉。
自周衰，戎狄错居泾渭之北。
及秦始皇攘却戎狄，筑长城，界中国，然西不过临洮。
汉兴至于孝武，事征四夷，广威德，而张骞始开西域之迹。
其后骠骑将军击破匈奴右地，降浑邪、休屠王，遂空其地，始筑令居以西，初置酒泉郡，后稍发徙民充实之，分置武威、张掖、敦煌，列四郡，据两关焉。
自贰师将军伐大宛之后，西域震惧，多遣使来贡献。汉使西域者益得职。
于是自敦煌西至盐泽，往往起亭，而轮台、渠犁皆有田卒数百人，置使者校尉领护，以给使外国者。
至宣帝时，遣卫司马使护鄯善以西数国。
及破姑师，未尽殄，分以为车师前后王及山北六国。
时汉独护南道，未能尽并北道也。然匈奴不自安矣。
其后日逐王畔单于，将众来降，护鄯善以西使者郑吉迎之。
既至汉，封日逐王为归德侯，吉为安远侯。
translation: 
Most of the countries in the Western Regions lived a settled life, with cities, fields, and livestock. They were different from the customs of the Xiongnu and Wusun. They were all enslaved and subordinate to the Xiongnu in the past.
King Yue Zhu in the western Xiongnu set up a boy servant captain to manage the western regions. He was often stationed in Yanqi, Weixu, Weili and other places, collecting taxes from various countries, and he was very wealthy.
Since the decline of the Zhou Dynasty, the Rong, Di and other ethnic groups have lived together in the north of the Jingshui and Weishui rivers.
When Qin Shihuang arrived, he drove away the Rong and Di and built the Great Wall as the border of the Central Plains countries, but the west of Qin did not exceed Lintao County.
From the establishment of the Western Han Dynasty to the time of Emperor Wu, he managed the surrounding ethnic areas and promoted mighty virtue, so Zhang Qian began to open the road to the Western Regions.
Later, Husband General Huo Qubing defeated the Xiongnu in the right area, and King Hunxie and Xiutu surrendered. There were no Xiongnu in the right area. The Han Dynasty began to build beacons to the west of Lingju and began to establish Jiuquan County. Later, the people were recruited to live here, and Wuwei, Zhangye, and Dunhuang were established in four counties, and they guarded Yumen and Yangguan Pass.
Since Li Guangli, the general of the Second Division, attacked Dayuan, all countries in the Western Regions were frightened. Most countries sent envoys to Chang'an to pay tribute. The Han Dynasty's envoys to the Western Regions were increasingly rewarded and promoted.
So from the west of Dunhuang to Yanze, pavilions and barriers were built everywhere. Hundreds of field soldiers were stationed in Luntai and Quli. Envoys and captains were set up to supervise the field affairs and provide livelihood for the Han Dynasty's envoys to foreign countries.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, Wei Sima was assigned to oversee several countries west of Shanshan.
When it came time to defeat Gu Shi, he did not eliminate them all, but divided them into the former king of Cheshi, the queen of Cheshi, and the six kingdoms of Shanbei.
At that time, the Han Dynasty only supervised the southern route and did not annex all the northern routes, but the Huns were already feeling very uneasy.
Later, King Rizhu betrayed Chanyu and led his troops to surrender to the Han Dynasty. Zheng Ji, the envoy of the Han Dynasty who protected Shanshan from the west, met King Rizhu.
In the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty named Zhu Wang as the Marquis of Guide and Zheng Ji as the Marquis of Anyuan.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
是岁，神爵二年也。
乃因使吉并护北道，故号曰都护。
都护之起，自吉置矣。
僮仆都尉由此罢，匈奴益弱，不得近西域。
于是徙屯田，田于北胥鞬，披莎车之地，屯田校尉始属都护。
都护督察乌孙、康居诸外国，动静有变以闻。
可安辑，安辑之；可击，击之。
都护治乌垒城，去阳关二千七百三十八里，与渠犁田官相近，土地肥饶，于西域为中，故都护治焉。
至元帝时，复置戊己校尉，屯田车师前王庭。
是时，匈奴东蒲类王兹力支将人众千七百余人降都护，都护分车师后王之西为乌贪訾离地以处之。
自宣、元后，单于称藩臣，西域服从。其土地山川、王侯户数、道里远近，翔实矣。
出阳关，自近者始，曰婼羌。
婼羌国王号去胡来王。
去阳关千八百里，去长安六千三百里，辟在西南，不当孔道。
translation: 
This year is the third year of Shenjue.
The Han Dynasty sent Zheng Ji to protect the North Road, so it was called "Duhu".
The establishment of the Protectorate began with Zheng Ji.
The Xiongnu's child servant captain originally stationed in the Western Regions has since been dismissed. The Xiongnu has become even weaker and cannot approach the Western Regions.
So the Han Dynasty moved the people to farm in Beixu Tar, dividing the land of Shache. From then on, the military commander of the farm began to belong to the military guard.
The Protectorate monitors the situation in Wusun, Kangju and other foreign countries, and reports to the emperor immediately if there is any movement.
Soothe those who can be soothed; strike those who need to be struck.
The Protector is stationed in Wulei City, which is 2,738 miles away from Yangguan. It is close to the field officers of Quli. The land is fertile and in the center of the Western Region, so the Protector is stationed here.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan Dynasty, Wuji Xiaowei was appointed to man the fields in front of the officials.
At this time, Wang Zilizhi of Baotui Dongpu led more than 1,700 people to surrender to the guardian. The guardian divided the land to the west of the queen of the Che Division for Wu Tan Zi Li's country, and arranged for the branch to live there.
Since the Xuancha and Wutong period, Li Sculpture Chanyu Xianghui has been called a vassal, and Youhan has also obeyed Hemu. The land, mountains, rivers, princes, household registrations, and distances of roads in Youqiu have all been recorded in detail.
Going west out of Yangguan, starting from the nearest, is Laoqiang.
The name of the king of Waqiang is the King of Quhu Lai.
It is 1,800 miles from Yangguan and 6,300 miles from Chang'an. It is in a remote place in the southwest and is not on the main road.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
户四百五十，口千七百五十，胜兵者五百人。
西与且末接。
随畜逐不草，不田作，仰鄯善、且末谷。
山有铁，自作兵，后有弓、矛、服刀、剑、甲。
西北至鄯善，乃当道云。
鄯善国，本名楼兰，王治扞泥城，去阳关千六百里，去长安六千一百里。
户千五百七十，口万四千一百，胜兵二千九百十二人。
辅国侯、却胡侯、鄯善都尉、击车师都尉、左右且渠、击车师君各一人，译长二人。
西北去都护治所千七百八十五里，至墨山国千三百六十五里，西北至车师千八百九十里。
地沙卤，少田，寄田仰谷旁国。
国出玉，多葭苇、柽柳、胡桐、白草。
民随率牧逐水草，有驴马，多橐它。
能作兵，与婼羌同。
初，武帝咸张骞之言，甘心欲通大宛诸国，使者相望于道，一岁中多至十余辈。
translation: 
There are 450 households, 1,750 people, and 500 troops.
The west is connected with Qiemo.
They live with their livestock chasing water and grass, do not farm, and rely on Shanshan, which does not provide food.
The mountains produce iron, and they make their own weapons, including bows, spears, knives, swords, and armor.
Northwest to Shanshan, Shanshan is on the main road.
The Shanshan Kingdom, formerly known as Loulan, was governed by the king of Shanni City, which stretched 1,600 miles from Yangguan to the east and 6,100 miles from Chang'an.
There are 1,570 households, a population of 14,100, and an army of 2,912.
There are Fu Guohou, Quehuhou, Shanshan Duwei, Chauchushi Duwei, Zuo Qiequ, You Qiequ, Chache Shijun, one each, and two translators.
The northwest is 1,785 miles from Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Region Protectorate, the northwest is 1,365 miles from Shanguo, and the northwest is 1,890 miles from Cheshi.
The place is rich in sand and saltwater and has few fields, so we plant fields and buy grain in nearby countries.
It produces jade, many reeds, willow, tung trees, and white grass.
The people lived with their livestock chasing water and grass, and they gave birth to donkeys, horses, and many camels.
Can make weapons, the same as wax Qiang.
At first, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was moved by Zhang Qian's words and was very willing to communicate with other countries in Dawan. The envoys he sent could see each other on the road. There were so many envoys that there could be more than ten batches a year.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
楼兰、姑师当道，苦之，攻劫汉使王恢等，又数为匈奴耳目，令其兵遮汉使。
汉使多言其国有城邑，兵弱易击。
于是武帝遣从票侯赵破奴将属国骑及郡兵数万击姑师。
王恢数为楼兰所苦，上令恢佐破奴将兵。
破奴与轻骑七百人先至，虏楼兰王遂破姑师，因暴兵威以动乌孙、大宛之属。
还，封破奴为浞野侯，恢为浩侯。
于是汉列亭障至玉门矣。
楼兰既降服贡献，匈奴闻，发兵击之。
于是楼兰遣一子质匈奴，一子质汉。
后贰师军击大宛，匈奴欲遮之，贰师兵盛不敢当，即遣骑因楼兰候汉使后过者，欲绝勿通。
时汉军正任文将兵屯玉门关，为贰师后距，捕得生口，知状以闻。
上诏文便道引兵捕楼兰王。
translation: 
Lou Lan and Gu Shi were located on the main road. Feeling the hard work of supplying the envoys, they attacked and robbed the Han envoy Wang Hui and others. They also acted as eyes and ears for the Huns several times, allowing the Huns to intercept the Han envoys.
Most of the envoys from the Han Dynasty said that there were cities in Gushi and Loulan, and their troops were weak and easy to attack.
So Emperor Mowu sent Zhao Ponu, the Marquis of Piao, to lead tens of thousands of Han ethnic minority cavalry and desert soldiers from the county to attack Gushi.
Wang Hui was attacked by Loulan several times, so Emperor Wu ordered him to help Zaponu lead his troops.
Wang Hui and his 700 Qing cavalrymen went to Loulan first and captured the King of Loulan. Then he defeated Gu Shi and showed off his military power to shake up Wusun, Dawan and others.
They returned to Chang'an, and Emperor Wu made Zhao Ponu the Marquis of Zhuoye and Wang Hui the Marquis of Hao.
So the Han Dynasty built pavilions and barriers westward to Yumen Pass.
Loulan had surrendered to the Han Dynasty and paid tribute. When the Xiongnu learned about it, they sent troops to attack.
So King Loulan sent one of his sons to the Huns as a hostage, and another son to the Han Dynasty as a hostage.
Later, General Ershi attacked Dawan, and the Xiongnu wanted to intercept the Han army. However, the Han army was so powerful that the Xiongnu did not dare to resist, so they sent knights to borrow Loulan's help to wait for the Han envoys who were walking behind, and stopped them from passing.
At that time, Ren Wen of the Han army led his troops to garrison at Yumen Pass and served as the rear guard of the general of the Second Division. He captured prisoners and reported the situation to Emperor Wu.
Emperor Wu ordered Ren Wen to lead troops from Xiaolu to arrest King Loulan.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
将指阙，簿责王，对曰： 小国在大国间，不两属无以自安。
愿徙国入居汉地。
上直其言，遣归国，亦因使候司匈奴。
匈奴自是不甚亲信楼兰。
征和元年，楼兰王死，国人来请质子在汉者，欲立之。
质子常坐汉法，下蚕室宫刑，故不遣。
报曰： 侍子，天子爱之，不能遣。
其更立其次当立者。
楼兰更立王，汉复责其质子，亦遣一子质匈奴。
后王又死，匈奴先闻之，遣质子归，得立为王。
汉遣使诏新王，令入朝，天子将加厚赏。
楼兰王后妻，故继母也，谓王曰： 先王遣两子质汉皆不还，奈何欲往朝乎？
王用其计，谢使曰： 新立，国未定，愿待后年入见天子。
然楼兰国最在东垂，近汉，当白龙堆，乏水草，常主发导，负水儋粮，送迎汉使，又数为吏卒所寇，惩艾不便与汉通。
后复为匈奴后间，数遮杀汉使。
translation: 
King Loulan was taken to the Han Palace and questioned one by one according to the book. King Loulan said: A small country is sandwiched between big countries. If it does not adopt the approach of two subordinates, it will not be able to secure itself.
I hope that my country will be moved to the territory of the Han Dynasty.
Emperor Wu thought his words were straightforward, so he sent him back to his country and also asked Loulan to spy on the Xiongnu's movements.
From then on, the Huns did not trust Loulan very much.
In the first year of Zhenghe, King Loulan died. The people of Loulan came to invite the hostage in the Han Dynasty to return to their country and make him king.
The hostage often violated Han law and was sent to the silkworm room and executed by castration, so he could not be sent back.
He replied to Loulan: "The servant is very popular with the emperor, so I cannot send him back to his country."
You can establish a person who should be established.
Loulan established a new king, and the Han Dynasty asked King Loulan to send a proton, and King Loulan also sent a proton to the Xiongnu.
Later, King Loulan died again. The Huns knew this and sent a proton back to make him king.
The Han sent an envoy to order the new King of Loulan to go to Chang'an to see Emperor Wu, saying that Emperor Wu would give him a generous reward.
King Loulan's stepmother, who was his original stepmother, told him: The late king sent two protons to the Han Dynasty, but they did not come back. Why do you still go to see the emperor?
King Loulan used her trick and declined to the envoy Mo, saying: I have just been established as king, the country is not stable, and I hope to wait until the year after tomorrow to become emperor.
However, the Loulan Kingdom was at the border of the Western Region, close to the Han Dynasty, right at the White Dragon Pile, with little water and grass. It often sent guides for desert envoys, carried water and food, and sent Han envoys to greet them. It was robbed many times by the officials of the Han Dynasty. Their lesson was that there was no benefit in communicating with the Han Dynasty.
Later, the Huns counterattacked and intercepted and killed Han envoys several times.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
其弟尉屠耆降汉，具言状。
元凤四年，大将军霍光白遣平乐监傅介子往刺其王。
介子轻将勇敢士，赍金币，扬言以赐外国为名。
既至楼兰，诈其王欲赐之，王喜，与介子饮，醉，将其王屏语，壮士二人从后刺杀之，贵人左右皆散走。
介子告谕以： 王负汉罪，天子遣我诛王，当更立王弟尉屠耆在汉者。
汉兵方至，毋敢动，自令灭国矣！
介子遂斩王尝归首，驰传诣阙，悬首北阙下。
封介子为义阳侯。
乃立尉屠耆为王，更名其国为鄯善，为刻印章，赐以宫女为夫人，备车骑辎重，丞相将军率百官送至横门外，祖而遣之。
王自请天子曰： 身在汉久，今归，单弱，而前王有子在，恐为所杀。
国中有伊循城，其地肥美，愿汉遣一将屯田积谷，令臣得依其威重。
于是汉遣司马一人、吏士四十人，田伊循以填抚之。
其后更置都尉。
伊循官置始此矣。
鄯善当汉道冲，西通且末七百二十里。
自且末以往皆种五谷，土地草木，畜产作兵，略与汉同，有异乃记云。
translation: 
Later, Wei Tuqi, the younger brother of King Loulan, surrendered to the Han Dynasty and told the relevant situation.
In the fourth year of Yuanfeng, after reporting to Emperor Zhao, the general Huo Guang sent Pingyue supervisor Fu Jiezi to assassinate King Loulan.
Fu Jiezi led the warriors lightly equipped with gold coins and silk, threatening to give them to foreign countries.
When he arrived at Loulan, he lied to the King of Loulan and said that he would give it to him. The king was very happy and drank with Fu Jiezi. When he was drunk, Fu Jiezi talked with the king alone. Two strong men assassinated the king from behind, and the nobles and relatives of Loulan all ran away.
Fu Jiezi declared: King Loulan has failed the Han Dynasty, and the emperor has sent me to kill him. He should make Wei Tuqi, the king's younger brother in the Han Dynasty, king.
The Han soldiers are about to arrive, don't move, otherwise, you will be destroyed!
Fu Jiezi cut off the head of King Loulan Changgui and sent it to the Chang'an court in a post carriage, where he hung his head under the North Tower.
The Han Dynasty granted Fu Jiezi the title of Marquis of Yiyang.
He established Wei Tu Qi as the King of Loulan and changed the name of the country to Shanshan. The court carved a seal for him and gave him a palace maid as his wife. He was equipped with chariots and riding supplies. The prime minister led hundreds of officials to send him outside Hengmen. After worshiping the road god, he was sent back to his country.
King Shanshan personally petitioned Emperor Wu: I have been in the Han Dynasty for a long time. When I go back today, I am weak. The former king has a son who is still alive, and I am afraid he will kill him.
There is a city called Yixun in the country with fertile land. I hope that the Han Dynasty will send a general to farm and accumulate grain there so that I can have something to rely on.
So the Han Dynasty sent one Sima and forty officials to garrison Yixun to intimidate and pacify them.
Later, he was changed to captain.
This was the beginning of the establishment of officials in Yixun.
Shanshan was at the strategic point of the Han Dynasty's road to the Western Regions. From the west to Qiemo, it is 720 miles.
From Qiemo to the west, grains were grown, and the land, vegetation, livestock, and weapons were similar to those of the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
且末国，王治且末城，去长安六千八百二十里。
户二百三十，口千六百一十，胜兵三百二十人。
辅国侯、左右将、译长各一人。
西北至都护治所二千二百五十八里，北接尉犁，南至小宛可三日行。
有蒲陶诸果。
西通精绝二千里。
小宛国，王治扜零城，去长安七千二百一十里。
户百五十，口千五十，胜兵二百人。
辅国侯、左右都尉各一人。
西北至都护治所二千五百五十八里，东与婼羌接，辟南不当道。
精绝国，王治精绝城，去长安八千八百二十里。
户四百八十，口三千三百六十，胜兵五百人。
精绝都尉、左右将、译长各一人。
北至都护治所二千七百二十三里南至戎卢国四日行，地厄狭，西通扜弥四百六十里。
戎卢国，王治卑品城，去长安八千三百里。
户二百四十，口千六百一十，胜兵三百人。
translation: 
If there are any differences, record them. In Qiemo Kingdom, the king ruled Qiemo City, which was six thousand eight hundred and twenty miles east to Chang'an.
There are 230 households, a population of 1,610, and an army of 320.
There is one auxiliary prince, one general on the left and one general on the right, and one chief translator.
It is 2,250 miles from the northwest to Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Region Protectorate, to the north is Yuli, and to the south it takes three days to reach Xiaowan.
Produces grapes and other fruits.
Two thousand miles to Jingjue in the west.
In the country of Xiaowan, the king drove Xueyue to a distance of 7,210 miles from Kenbi.
There are one hundred and fifty households, a population of one thousand and fifty, and an army of two hundred.
There is one auxiliary prince and one captain each on the left and right.
It is 2,558 miles from the northwest to the Yousu Protectorate Office. It is connected with Numi, southward and not on the main road.
In the country of Jingjue, the king governed the city of Jingjue and extended it to Chang'an for eight thousand eight hundred and twenty miles.
There are 480 households, a population of 3,360, and an army of 500.
There is a Jingjue captain, a left and right general, and a chief translator.
It is 2,723 miles from Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Region Governor, in the north, and it takes four days to go to Ronglu State in the south. The terrain is dangerous and narrow, and it is 460 miles from Shanmi in the west.
In the Ronglu Kingdom, the king ruled over Yue, stretching 8,300 miles east to Danbi.
There are 240 households, 1,610 people, and 300 troops.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
东北至都护治所二千八百五十八里，东与小宛、南与婼羌、西与渠勒接，辟南不当道。
扜弥国，王治扜弥城，去长安九千二百八十里。
户三千三百四十，口二万四十，胜兵三千五百四十人。
辅国侯、左右将、左右都尉、左右骑君各一人，译长二人。
东北至都护治所三千五百五十三里，南与渠勒、东北与龟兹、西北与姑墨接，西通于阗三百九十里。
今名宁弥。
渠勒国，王治鞬都城，去长安九千九百五十里。
户三百一十，口二千一百七十，胜兵三百人。
东北至都护治所三千八百五十二里，东与戎卢、西与婼羌、北与扜弥接。
于阗国，王治西城，去长安九千六百七十里。
户三千三百，口万九千三百，胜兵二千四百人。
辅国侯、左右将、左右骑君、东西城长、译长各一人。
东北至都护治所三千九百四十七里，南与婼羌接，北与姑墨接。
于阗之西，水皆西流，注西海；其东，水东流，注盐泽，河原出焉。
translation: 
Shu: Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Regions Governor, is 2,858 miles away. It is connected to Xiaowan in the east, Waqiang in the south, and Qule in the west. It is to the south and is not on the main road.
In the country of Shanmi, the king ruled the city of Shanmi, which was nine thousand two hundred and eighty miles east of Chang'an.
There are 3,340 households, 20,40 people, and 3,540 troops.
There are one auxiliary prince, one left and right general, one left and right captain, one left and right knight, and two translators.
It extends 3,553 miles to Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Regions Governor, in the northeast, connects with Qule in the south, Qiuci in the northeast, Gumo in the northwest, and reaches Khotan in the west for 390 miles.
My current name is Ning Mi.
In the Qule Kingdom, the king governed Yanyue and was sent to Kensai for 9950 miles.
There are 310 households, a population of 2170, and an army of 300 people.
From the northeast to the Yousu Protectorate Office, we have to cultivate more than 3,852 miles during the day, connecting Shu with Dong Yun, west with Nushuang, and north with Ganyou.
In the Kingdom of Khotan, the king ruled the west city, which was nine thousand six hundred and seventy miles east to Chang'an.
There are 3,300 households, a population of 19,300, and an army of 2,400.
There is one auxiliary prince, left and right generals, left and right cavalry monarchs, east and west city chiefs, and translator chief.
It stretches 3,947 miles from the northeast to Wulei City, the administrative center of the Western Regions. It is connected with Waqiang in the south and Gumo in the north.
To the west of Khotan, the river water flows westward and pours into the West Sea; to the east of Khotan, the river water flows eastward and pours into the salt marsh, where the Yellow River originates.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
多玉石。
西通皮山三百八十里。
皮山国，王治皮山城，去长安万五十里。
户五百，口三千五百，胜兵五百人。
左右将、左右都尉、骑君、译长各一人。
东北至都护治所四千二百九十二里，西南至乌秅国千三百四十里，南与天笃接，北至姑墨千四百五十里，西南当罽宾、乌弋山离道，西北通莎车三百八十里。
乌秅国，王治乌秅城，去长安九千九百五十里。
户四百九十，口二千七百三十三，胜兵七百四十人。
东北至都护治所四千八百九十二里，北与子合、蒲犁，西与难兜接。
山居，田石间。
有白草。
累石为室。民接手饮。
出小步马，有驴无牛。
其西则有县度，去阳关五千八百八十八里，去都护治所五千二十里。
县度者，石山也，溪谷不通，以绳索相引而度云。
西夜国，王号子合王，治呼犍谷，去长安万二百五十里。
户三百五十，口四千，胜兵千人。
东北到都护治所五千四十六里，东与皮山、西南与乌秅、北与莎车、西与蒲犁接。
translation: 
This bundle is prolific in jade.
Three hundred and eighty miles to Pishan in the west.
In Pishan Kingdom, the king governs Pishan City, which is 1050 miles east of Chang'an.
The property is 500, the population is 3500, and the army is 500.
There is one left and right general, one left and right captain, one knight and one chief translator.
It is 4,292 miles from Wulei City, the capital of the Western Regions, to the northeast, 1,340 miles to Wutuo Kingdom to the southwest, connected with Tiandu in the south, 1,450 miles to Gumo in the north, on the passage to Jubin and Wuyi Mountain in the southwest, and 380 miles to Yarkand in the northwest.
In Wushuo Kingdom, the king governed Wutuo City and extended it to Chang'an for nine thousand nine hundred and fifty miles.
There are 490 households, a population of 2,733, and an army of 740.
It stretches 4,892 miles from the northeast to Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Region Protectorate, and is connected to Zihe and Puli in the north and Nandou in the west.
People live in mountainous areas, and fields are scattered among rocks.
There is white grass growing.
They build houses with stones and draw water from mountain streams for drinking.
There are ponies that are good at walking, there are donkeys, and there are no oxen.
There are counties to the west, extending as far as Yangguan for 5,888 miles, and to the northeast as far as Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Regions Governor, for 5,020 miles.
The county is a rocky mountain with large valleys that are impassable, so people have to use rope suspension bridges to evacuate.
In the Xiye Kingdom, the king named himself the king, and governed the Hujian Valley, extending 10,250 miles east to Chang'an.
There are 350 households, a population of 4,000, and an army of 1,000 people.
It is 5,046 miles from Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Region Governor, in the northeast, and is connected with Pishan Mountain, Wutuo in the southwest, Yarkand in the north, and Puli in the west.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
蒲犁及依耐、无雷国皆西夜类也。
西夜与胡异，其种类羌氐行国，随畜逐水草往来。
而子合土地出玉石。
蒲犁国，王治蒲犁谷，去长安九千五百五十里。
户六百五十，口五千，胜兵二千人。
东北至都护治所五千三百九十六里，东至莎车五百四十里，北至疏勒五百五十里，南与西夜子合接，西至无雷五百四十里。
侯、都尉各一人。
寄田莎车。
种俗与子合同。
依耐国，王治去长安万一百五十里。
户一百二十五，口六百七十，胜兵三百五十人。
东北至都护治所二千七百三十里，至莎车五百四十里，至无雷五百四十里，北至疏勒六百五十里，南与子合接，俗相与同。
少谷，寄田疏勒、莎车。
无雷国，王治无雷城，去长安九千九百五十里。
户千，口七千，胜兵三千人。
东北至都护治所二千四百六十五里，南至蒲犁五百四十里，南与乌秅、北与捐毒、西与大月氏接。
衣服类乌孙，俗与子合同。
难兜国，王治去长安万一百五十里。
户五千，口三万一千，胜兵八千人。
东北至都护治所二千八百五十里，南至无雷三百四十里，西南至罽宾三百三十里，南与婼羌、北与休循、西与大月氏接。
translation: 
Pu Li, Yi Nai, and Wu Lei Kingdom all belong to the same race as Xiye Kingdom.
The Xiye people are different from the Hu people. They are similar to the Qiang, Di and other nomadic peoples. They live with their livestock and follow water and grass.
Zihe produces jade.
In the Puli Kingdom, the king governs the Puli Valley, which extends 9,550 miles east to Chang'an.
There are 650 households, a population of 5,000, and an army of 2,000.
It stretches 5,396 miles to Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Region Governor, in the northeast, 540 miles to Shache, 550 miles to Shule in the north, connects with Xiye and Zihe in the south, and reaches Wulei in the west for 540 miles.
There is one marquis and one captain each.
Plowing fields in Yarkand.
The ethnic customs are the same as those of Zihe State.
In the country of Yinai, the king governed the city of Yinai and extended it to Chang'an for 10,150 miles.
There are 125 households, a population of 670, and an army of 350.
The northeast is 2,730 miles from Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Regions Governor, 540 miles from Shache, 540 miles from Wulei, 650 miles from Shule in the north, and is adjacent to Zihe State in the south. The customs are also the same.
There was very little food, so I plowed the fields in Shule and Yarkand.
In the country without thunder, the king governed Lu Yue and sent it to the countryside for nine thousand nine hundred and fifty miles.
There are 1,000 households, 7,000 people, and 3,000 troops.
It is 2,465 miles to Wukenxu, the headquarters of Youqiu Governor, in the northeast, 540 miles to Zhasheng in the south, and to the south! Mystery, north and Dantong, west and left Qieyi are connected.
Clothes and! Crocodile people are similar, and their customs are the same as those of Wanghe people.
Nandou country, the king's seat is 10,150 miles east of Chang'an.
There are 5,000 households, 31,000 people, and 8,000 troops.
It stretches 2,850 miles from the Western Region Protectorate Office, 340 miles from Wulei in the west, 330 miles from Chubin in the southwest, and is connected with Waqiang in the south, Xiuxun in the north, and Dayuezhi in the west.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
种五谷、蒲陶诸果。有金、银、铜、铁，作兵与诸国同，属罽宾。
罽宾国，王治循鲜城，去长安万二千二百里。
不属都护。
户口胜兵多，大国也。
东北至都护治所六千八百四十里，东至乌秅国二千二百五十里，东北至难兜国九日行，西北与大月氏、西南与乌弋山离接。
昔匈奴破大月氏，大月氏西君大夏，而塞王南君罽宾。
塞种分散，往往为数国。
自疏勒以西北，休循、捐毒之属，皆故塞种也。
罽宾地平，温和，有目宿、杂草、奇木、檀、槐、梓、竹、漆。
种五谷、蒲陶诸果，粪治园田。
地下湿，生稻，冬食生菜。
其民巧，雕文刻镂，治宫室，织罽，刺文绣，好酒食。
有金、银、铜、锡，以为器。
市列。
以金银为钱，文为骑马，幕为人面。
出封牛、水牛、象、大狗、沐猴、孔爵、珠玑、珊瑚、虏魄、璧流离。
它畜与诸国同。
translation: 
It grows grains, grapes, etc., and produces silver, copper, and iron. Its weapons are the same as those of nearby countries, and it belongs to the Kitchen Guest Kingdom.
In the state of Jibin, the king governed Xunxian City, which was 12,200 miles east to Chang'an.
It does not belong to the Western Region Protector.
It is a big country with many household registrations and troops.
It is 6,840 miles from Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Region Governor, in the northeast, 2,250 miles from Wutuo State in the east, and a nine-day journey to Dou State in the southeast. It is connected with Da Yuezhi in the northwest and Wuyi Mountain in the southwest.
In the past, the Xiongnu defeated the Dayue clan, and the Dayue clan moved west to Daxia to reestablish their rule. The monarch of Daxia, King Sai, moved south to Chubin to establish his country.
The Cypriots dispersed and established several countries.
From Shule to the northwest, Xiuxun, Donation, etc. are all descendants of the former Sai people.
Jibin has a broad and flat terrain, a mild climate, alfalfa, and weeds and exotic trees including sandalwood, locust tree, catalpa, bamboo, and lacquer.
Grow grains, grapes and other fruits, and fertilize the fields with manure.
The terrain is low and humid, so we grow rice and eat lettuce in winter.
Its people are exquisite, good at carving utensils, building palaces, weaving woolen fabrics, weaving embroidery, and like to cook.
Gold, silver, copper, and tin are produced and used as utensils.
There is a market.
Coins are made of gold and silver, with horseback riding patterns on the front and human faces on the back.
It produces cows, buffaloes, elephants, large dogs, macaques, peacocks, pearls, corals, amber and biliang.
Other livestock are the same as those in nearby countries.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
自武帝始通罽宾，自以绝远，汉兵不能至，其王乌头劳数剽杀汉使。
乌头劳死，子代立，遣使奉献。
汉使关都尉文忠送其使。
王复欲害忠，忠觉之，乃与容屈王子阴末赴共合谋，攻罽宾，杀其王，立阴末赴为罽宾王，授印绶。
后军候赵德使罽宾，与阴末赴相失，阴末赴锁琅当德，杀副已下七十余人，遣使者上书谢。
孝元帝以绝域不录，放其使者于县度，绝而不通。
成帝时，复遣使献谢罪，汉欲遣使者报送其使，杜钦说大将军王凤曰： 前罽宾王阴末赴本汉所立，后卒畔逆。
translation: 
The Han Dynasty began to communicate with touch guests only after Emperor Mowu. At that time, the guests of the Bureau thought that they were far away from the election and that the troops could not come. Wu Toulao, the king of Wuxuan, robbed and killed the Han Dynasty envoys several times.
After Wu Toulao died, his son inherited the throne and sent envoys to deliver gifts to the Han emperor.
The Han Dynasty sent Guandu Wei Wenzhong to escort the envoys back to the country.
King Shan Bin wanted to kill Wen Zhong again, but Wen Zhong noticed it and conspired with Yin Mofu, the prince of Rongqu, to kill King Ban Bin, make Yin Mo Fu King Erbin, and grant the seal and ribbon.
Later, Zhao De, the military commander, went to serve as an envoy to the kitchen guest, but his relationship with Yin Mofu was not good. Yin Mofu arrested Zhao De, killed more than 70 people including the deputy envoy, and sent an envoy to write a confession to the Han emperor.
Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty thought that the guest in the kitchen was too far away and would not accept the envoy. He prevented the envoy from staying in the county and did not allow him to go to Chang'an.
When the Han Dynasty became emperor, Bi Bin sent an envoy to Chang'an to present gifts to the Han emperor and confess his guilt. The Han Dynasty wanted to send an envoy to return the favor and send back Bi Bin's envoy. Du Qin suggested to General Wang Feng: "The former cook Bin Wang Yin Mofu was originally established by the Han Dynasty, but later betrayed the Han Dynasty."


Chunk 13: 
original: 
夫德莫大于有国子民，罪莫大于执杀使者，所以不报恩，不惧诛者，自知绝远，兵不至也。
有求则卑辞，无欲则娇嫚，终不可怀服。
凡中国所以通厚蛮夷，惬快其求者，为壤比而为寇也。
今县度之厄，非罽宾所能越也。
其乡慕，不足以安西域，虽不附，不能危城郭。
前亲逆节，恶暴西城，故绝而不通；今悔过来，而无亲属贵人，奉献者皆行贾贱人，欲通货市买，以献为名，故烦使者送至县度，恐失实见欺。
凡遣使送客者，欲为防护寇害也。
起皮山南，更不属汉之国四五，斥候士百余人，五分夜击刀斗自守，尚时为所侵盗。
translation: 
The virtues of the people of the country are not greater than that of the people of the country, and the sins are not greater than that of killing envoys. The reason why King Cook Bin did not repay his kindness to the Han Dynasty and was not afraid of execution was because he knew that the Han Dynasty was very far away from them and Han soldiers could not come.
If they want something from the Han Dynasty, they will talk down and talk nicely. If they don't want something from the Han Dynasty, they will be arrogant and arrogant. They will never be interested in the Han Dynasty.
In general, the reason why the Central Plains dynasty treated the barbarian tribes favorably and met their demands was because they were connected to the land of the Central Plains dynasty and were easily plundered by bandits.
Today's county is a dangerous place that cannot be crossed by Wei Bin.
Zhou Bin's admiration for the Han Dynasty was not enough to help the Han Dynasty stabilize the Western Regions; even if he did not attach himself to the Han Dynasty, he would not be able to harm the Western Regions.
In the past, the king personally rebelled against the Han Dynasty, and his crimes were exposed in the Western Regions, so the court cut off contact with him; today he regretted it and sent envoys here. Among the people who came were not the king's relatives and nobles, but some merchants and lowly people who wanted to do business in the name of presenting gifts to the emperor. Therefore, our imperial court sent envoys to escort them back to the county, fearing that they would be deceived in vain.
Generally, the Central Plains dynasties sent envoys to see off their guests in order to prevent the guests from being harmed by bandits.
From the south of Pishan Mountain. There are four or five countries that do not belong to the Han Dynasty. There were more than 100 guardsmen, divided into five groups to keep vigil, but they were often invaded and robbed.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
驴畜负粮，须诸国禀食，得以自赡。
国或贫小不能食，或桀黠不肯给，拥强汉之节，馁山谷之间，乞匄无所得，离一二旬则人畜弃捐旷野而不反。
又历大头痛、小头痛之山，赤土、身热之阪，令人身热无色，头痛呕吐，驴畜尽然。
又有三池、盘石阪，道狭者尺六七寸，长者径三十里。
临峥嵘不测之深，行者骑步相持，绳索相引，二千余里乃到县度。
畜队，未半坑谷尽靡碎；人堕，势不得相收视。
险阻危害，不可胜言。
圣王分九州，制五服，务盛内，不求外。
今遣使者承至尊之命，送蛮夷之贾，劳吏士之众，涉危难之路，罢弊所恃以事无用，非久长计也。
使者业已受节，可至皮山而还。
于是凤白从钦言。
罽宾实利赏赐贾市，其使数年而一至云。
translation: 
The donkeys and horses transporting grain also need food from the countries along the way.
If a small and poor country cannot provide food, or is stubborn and refuses to provide food, the envoy will starve in the valley even though he holds the powerful talisman of the Han Dynasty. He will get nothing if he begs. In one or twenty days, both humans and animals will die in the wilderness and will not be able to return to Chang'an.
We also have to pass through Datou Mountain and Xiaotou Mountain, as well as the red soil and the hot slopes. These places will make people's bodies feel hot, and they will lose color, suffer from headaches and vomit, and this will happen to donkeys, horses and livestock.
There are also three ponds and Panshiban. The narrow part of the road is only one foot, six or seven inches, and the length is thirty miles.
The mountains are dangerous and the valleys are deep. Travelers, those on horseback and those on foot, supported each other and were connected with ropes to guide them. In this way, they walked more than 2,000 miles to the county.
Animals that fell into the valley were shattered before they hit the bottom; people who fell into the valley couldn't even recover their bodies.
These dangers and hazards are too numerous to mention.
The Holy King divided the world into Kyushu and formulated the Five Services. His main purpose was to prosper the interior and not to seek outside.
Today's envoys are ordered by the emperor to escort the barbarian merchants, toil the officials and soldiers, and to trudge on the dangerous road. The Central Plains are exhausted, and what they do is useless. This is not a strategy for long-term peace and stability.
Now that the envoy has accepted the emperor's dispatch, he can send it to Pishan and come back.
Wang Feng reported to the Queen Mother and accepted Du Qin's suggestion.
The kitchen guests were indeed greedy for the Han emperor's rewards and business, so they sent a group of envoys every few years.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
乌弋山离国，王去长安万二千二百里。
不属都护。
户口胜兵，大国也。
东北至都护治所六十日行，东与罽宾、北与扑挑、西与犁靬、条支接。
行可百余日，乃至条支。
国临西海，暑湿，田稻。
有大鸟，卵如瓮。
人众甚多，往往有小君长，安息役属之，以为外国。
善眩。
安息长老传闻条支有弱水、西王母，亦未尝见也。
自条支乘水西行，可百余日，近日所入云。
乌戈地暑热莽平，其草木、畜产、五谷、果菜、食饮、宫室、市列、钱货、兵器、金珠之属皆与罽宾同，而有桃拔、师子、犀子。
俗重妄杀。
其钱独文为人头，幕为骑马。
以金银饰杖。
绝远，汉使希至。
自玉门、阳关出南道，历鄯善而南行，至乌弋山离，南道极矣。
转北而东得安息。
安息国，王治番兜城，去长安万一千六百里。
translation: 
Wuyi Mountain leaves the country and reaches Kensai 12,200 miles east.
Does not belong to the Youqiu Protector.
Judging from the households and the army, it is a big country.
It takes sixty days to travel from the northeast to the Youqiu Capital Protectorate. It connects the Shu and the Bin, the north and the Tatsu, and the west and the whole bridge and the building.
It takes more than a hundred days to travel west from Wuyi Mountain to Tiaozhi.
Tiaozhi is close to the West Sea to the west and has a hot and humid climate, so rice is grown.
There are camel crows, and the eggs are the same as urns and pots.
The population was large, divided into many small chiefs, all belonging to Parthia and foreign.
Good at magic.
The old man who rested in peace said that there was Ruoshui and Queen Mother of the West in Tiaozhi, but he had never seen them.
Taking a boat from Tiaozhi to the west, it takes more than a hundred days to reach the place where the sun sets.
Wuyi is hot and hot, with flat terrain and lush vegetation. Plants, livestock, grains, fruits and vegetables, food and drink, palaces, markets, currency, weapons, gold beads, etc. are all the same as the kitchen guests, as well as peach trees, lions, and rhinos.
Customs prohibit indiscriminate killing.
The coin has a portrait on the front and a horseback riding pattern on the back.
Decorate the staff with gold and silver.
It was very far away from the Han Dynasty, and Han envoys rarely came here.
Baiyumenguan and Yangguan follow the South Road, pass through Shanshan and go south to Wuyi Mountain, which is the end of the South Road.
Turn north and east to reach rest.
In the Anxi Kingdom, the king ruled the city of Fandou, which was 11,600 miles away from Chang'an.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
不属都护。
北与康居、东与乌弋山离、西与条支接。
土地风气，物类所有，民俗与乌弋、罽宾同。
亦以银为钱，文独为王面，幕为夫人面。
王死辄更铸钱。
有大马爵。
其属小大数百城，地方数千里，最大国也。
临妫水，商贾车船行旁国。
书草，旁行为书记。
武帝始遣使至安息，王令将将二万骑迎于东界。
东界去王都数千里，行比至，过数十城，人民相属。
因发使随汉使者来观汉地，以大鸟卵及犁靬眩人献于汉，天子大说。安息东则大月氏。
大月氏国，治监氏城，去长安万一千六百里。
不属都护。
户十万，口四十万，胜兵十万人。
东至都护治所四千七百四十里，西至安息四十九日行，南与罽宾接。
土地风气，物类所有，民俗钱货，与安息同。
出一封橐驼。
translation: 
It does not belong to the Western Region Protector.
It is connected to Kangju in the north, Shu and Wuyishanli, and Tiaozhi in the west.
The land, climate, products, and folk customs are the same as those of Wuyi and Weibin.
Silver coins are also used, with the king's head on the front and the lady's head on the back.
After the king's death, money was minted.
There are ostriches.
The king has hundreds of cities, large and small, and a territory of thousands of miles. It is a very big country.
Near Yanshui, merchants and merchants used cars and ships to trade with nearby countries.
Written on leather paper, the text is written horizontally.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty began to send envoys to Parthia. At that time, the king ordered a general to lead 20,000 cavalry to the eastern border to greet them.
The eastern border is thousands of miles away from the capital. The general has to pass through dozens of cities to reach Shujie, and many people follow him.
When the Han envoys returned home, the Parthian Kingdom also sent envoys to accompany the Han envoys to visit the Han region. They also presented camel black eggs and Lixuan magicians to the Han emperor. The emperor was very happy. To the east of Parthia is Dayuezhi.
In Dayuezhi Kingdom, the city of Jianshi was governed and extended to Chang'an for 11,600 miles.
It does not belong to the Western Region Protector.
There are 100,000 households, 400,000 people, and 100,000 troops.
It is 4,740 miles from Wulei City, where the governor of the Western Regions is located, to Xi'an in the west, a journey of forty-nine days, and to Shanbin in the south.
The land, climate, products, folk customs, and coins are the same as those of Parthia.
A camel gives birth to a single peak.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
大月氏本行国也，随畜移徙，与匈奴同俗。
控弦十余万，故强轻匈奴。
本居敦煌、祁连间，至昌顿单于攻破月氏，而老上单于杀月氏，以其头为饮器，月氏乃远去，过大宛，西击大夏而臣之，都妫水北为王庭。
其余小众不能去者，保南山羌，号小月氏。
大夏本无大君长，城邑往往置小长，民弱畏战，故月氏徙来，皆臣畜之，共禀汉使者。
有五翕侯：一曰休密翕侯，治和墨城，去都护二千八百四十一里，去阳关七千八百二里；二曰双靡翕侯，治双靡城，去都护三千七百四十一里，去阳关七千七百八十二里；三曰贵霜翕侯，治护澡城，去都护五千九百四十里，去阳关七千九百八十二里，四曰肸顿翕侯，治薄茅城，去都护五千九百六十二里，去阳关八千二百二里；五曰离附翕侯，治高附城，去都护六千四十一里，去阳关九千二百八十三里。
凡五翕侯，皆属大月氏。
康居国，王冬治乐越匿地。
到卑阗城。
translation: 
The Dayuezhi were originally a nomadic country and moved with their livestock, which was the same custom as the Xiongnu.
There were more than 100,000 warriors who could shoot arrows, so they thought they were powerful and despised the Huns.
Originally lived between Dunhuang and Qilian Mountains. When the Xiongnu came to Maodun Chanyu, they defeated the Yuezhi. Maodun's son Laoshang Chanyu also killed the Yuezhi king and used the king's head to make a bowl. The Yuezhi people were forced to flee westward, crossed Dawan, and then attacked the west and surrendered to Daxia, establishing their capital north of Mashui.
A small number of Yuezhi people did not leave and relied on the Nanshan Qiang people, called Xiao Yuezhi.
The Daxia people originally had no unified king, and each city established its own small chief. The people were weak and afraid of fighting. Therefore, when the Yuezhi people moved in, they all surrendered, and both Da Yuezhi and Daxia were under the control of the Han Dynasty.
Daxia is divided into five tribes, each with its own marquis: the first is Xiumi Linghou, who governs Hemo City, and is sent to Wulei City, where the Western Regions Dufu is located, for 2,841 miles, and to Yangguan, which is 7,802 miles away; the second is Shuangmi Linghou, who governs Shuangmi City, and is sent to the Duhu Office for 3,741 miles and to Yangguan, which is 7,782 miles away; the third is Guishuang Linghou, who is responsible for protecting baths. The city is bound to the Duhu Zhizhi for 5,940 miles, and to Yangguan Qiding and 982 miles; the fourth is Gandun Linghou, who governs Bomao City, the east is 5,962 miles to the Guanhu Zhizhi, and the Yangguan 8,202 miles; the fifth is Gaofu Linghou, who governs Gaofu City, and is bound to the Duhu Zhiqi Qi for 1,041 miles, and to Yangguan 9,283 miles.
There are a total of Linghous in Qiu, all of whom belong to Dayue clan.
In the country of Kangju, the king took pleasure in the winter and went into hiding.
Arrive at the city of Bhotan.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
去长安万二千三百里。
不属都护。
至越匿地马行七日，至王夏所居蕃内九千一百四里。
户十二万，口六十万，胜兵十二万人。
东至都护治所五千五百五十里。
与大月氏同俗。
东羁事匈奴。
宣帝时，匈奴乖乱，五单于并争，汉拥立呼韩邪单于，而郅支单于怨望，杀汉使者，西阻康居。
其后都护甘延寿、副校尉陈汤发戊己校尉西域诸国兵至康居，诛灭郅支单于，语在《甘延寿、陈汤传》。
是岁，元帝建昭三年也。
至成帝时，康居遣子侍汉，贡献，然自以绝远，独骄嫚，不肯与诸国相望。
都护郭舜数上言： 本匈奴盛时，非以兼有乌孙、康居故也；及其称臣妾，非以失二国也。
translation: 
It was raked 12,300 miles to Chang'an.
It does not belong to the Western Region Protector.
It takes seven days to ride on horseback to reach the land of Linni, and it is 9104 miles to Fannei, where the king lives in summer.
There are 120,000 households, 600,000 people, and 120,000 soldiers.
From the east to Wulei City, where the Western Region Protectorate is located, it is 5,550 miles.
The custom is the same as that of Da Yueshi.
The east side was restrained by the Xiongnu.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty, the Xiongnu were in civil strife, and the five Chanyus fought against each other. In the Han Dynasty, Yong established Huhanxie Danzi, and the Zhizhi Chanyu was dissatisfied with Xuan, and killed Xuan's envoy Yin, confronting Xuan with the dangers of Chen day.
Later, the commander-in-chief of Xiyu, Ju Yanci, and the deputy principal Wei Su were appointed governor. Dang sent Wuji Xiaowei and soldiers from the Youyue kingdoms to hide in the dust, and killed Zhizhi Shanyu. This incident is recorded in "The Biography of Gan Yanshou" and "The Biography of Chen Tang".
This year is the third year of Hutong Jianzhao.
When he became emperor, King Kangju sent his prince to Chang'an to serve the emperor and contribute gifts. However, Bai thought that his country was far away from the Han, so he was arrogant and arrogant, and refused to treat the Han like other countries.
Guo Shun, the governor of the Western Regions, wrote to the emperor several times, saying: When the Xiongnu was strong, it was not because they had Wusun and Kangju; later the Xiongnu became vassal to Mo, nor was it because they lost Wusun and Kangju.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
汉虽皆受其质子，然三国内相输遗，交通如故，亦相候司，见便则发；合不能相亲信，离不能相臣役。
以今言之，结配乌孙竟未有益，反为中国生事。
然乌孙既结在前，今与匈奴俱称臣，义不可距。
而康居骄黠，讫不肯拜使者。
都护吏至其国，坐之乌孙诸使下，王及贵人先饮食已，乃饮啖都护吏，故为无所省以夸旁国。
以此度之，何故遣子入侍？
其欲贾市为好，辞之诈也。
匈奴百蛮大国，今事汉其备，闻康居不拜，且使单于有自下之意，宜归其侍子，绝勿复使，以章汉家不通无礼之国。
敦煌、酒泉小郡及南道八国，给使者往来人、马、驴、橐驼食，皆苦之。
空罢耗所过，送迎骄黠绝远之国，非至计也。
汉为其新通，重致远人。终羁縻而未绝。
translation: 
Although the Han Dynasty accepted the hostages of these three countries, these three countries still communicated with each other behind the scenes, and when they saw opportunities, they started to cause trouble. These three kingdoms will not be very close together, nor can they surrender to each other if they are apart.
Taking today's situation as an example: there is no benefit to our alliance with Wusun. On the contrary, it will cause trouble for our government.
However, Wusun has united with us before, and today together with the Xiongnu, they have submitted to our court. From a moral point of view, they cannot refuse.
But Kang Ju was arrogant and unruly, and actually refused to worship the envoys of the Han Dynasty.
The Duhu sent officials to their country, and they competed to let our officials sit under the envoys from Wusun and other countries. After the king and the nobles had finished eating, they only let the officials of the Duhu eat, deliberately ignoring the Han envoys to show off to other countries.
Inferring from these things, why did they send princes to serve the emperor?
They just want to do business, and all the good things they say are lies.
The Xiongnu is a big country among hundreds of barbarians, and their courtesy to the Han is very considerate today.
When they heard that Kang Ju did not pay homage to the Mo envoy, Shan Zi felt that serving the Han was too low. Kang Ju's servants should be allowed to go back and no longer communicate with Kang Ju. This can show that our Han Dynasty will not associate with countries that are rude and righteous. Dunhuang, the small counties of Jiuquan, and the eight southern countries were in great difficulty in providing food and drink for the envoys, horses, donkeys, and camels.
This is an area that has been passed by, and it is not a wise strategy to send foreigners who are arrogant and far away.
However, the imperial court used the reason that Kang Ju had just arrived as envoy and advocated the principle of attracting people from far away, so it adopted the policy of restraint and did not sever ties with Kang Ju.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
其康居西北可二千里，有奄蔡国。
控弦者十余万人。
与康居同俗。
临大泽，无崖，盖北海云。
康居有小王五：一曰苏■王，治苏■城，去都护五千七百七十六里，去阳关八千二十五里；二曰附墨王，治附墨城，去都护五千七百六十七里，去阳关八千二十五里；三曰窳匿王，治窳匿城，去都护五千二百六十六里，去阳关七千五百二十五里；四曰罽王，治罽城，去都护六千二百九十六里，去阳关八千五百五十五里；五曰奥鞬王，治奥鞬城，去都护六千九百六里，去阳关八千三百五十五里。
凡五王，属康居。
大宛国，王治贵山城，去长安万二千五百五十里。
户六万，口三十万，胜兵六万人。
副王、辅国王各一人。
东至都护治所四千三十一里，北至康居卑阗城千五百一十里，西南至大月氏六百九十里。
北与康居、南与大月氏接，土地风气物类民俗与大月氏、安息同。
大宛左右以蒲陶为酒，富人藏酒至万余石，久者至数十岁不败。
俗耆酒，马耆目宿。
translation: 
About two thousand miles northwest from Kangju, there is the state of Yancai.
There are more than 100,000 warriors who can shoot arrows.
The same custom as Kangju.
It is close to a big lake. If there is no lakeside, it is the North Sea.
There were five small kings in Kangju: one was King Su Su, who governed Su Xingcheng, and was sent to Wulei City, the capital of the Western Regions, for 5,776 miles, and Lieyang Pass for 8,025 miles; the second was King Fumo, who governed Fumo City, and was 5,767 miles east to the Governor's Office, and 8,025 miles to Yangguan; It is 5,266 miles to the Duhu Administrative Office, and 7,500 to Yangguan: twenty-five miles; the fourth is King Qu, who governs Shancheng, and is sent to the Duhu Administrative Office for 6,296 miles, and which is 8,555 miles to Yangguan; the fifth is King Aotar, who governs Aotar City, and is sent to the Duhu Administrative Office for 6,906 miles, and is sent to Yangguan for 8,355 miles.
There are five kings in total, all of whom belong to Kangju.
In the Kingdom of Dayuan, the king governed Guishan City and extended it to Chang'an for 12,550 miles.
There are 60,000 households, a population of 300,000, and an army of 60,000.
There is one deputy king and one assistant king.
It stretches 4,031 miles to Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Regions Governor, in the east, 1,510 miles to Kangju Beitian City in the north, and 690 miles to Dayuezhi in the southwest.
It is connected to Kangju in the north and Dayuezhi in the south. Its land, climate, products and folk customs are the same as those of Dayuezhi and Anxi.
The people of Dawan all use grapes to make wine. Rich families have wine that can store more than 10,000 dan, and the wine will last for decades.
People like to drink wine, and horses like to eat alfalfa.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
宛别邑七十余城，多善马。
马汗血，言其先天马子也。
张骞始为武帝言之，上遣使者持千金及金马，以请宛善马。
宛王以汉绝远，大兵不能至，爱其宝马不肯与。
汉使妄言，宛遂攻杀汉使，取其财物。
于是天子遣贰师将军李广利将兵前后十余万人伐宛，连四年。
宛人斩其王毋寡首，献马三千匹，汉军乃还，语在《张骞传》。
贰师既斩宛王，更立贵人素遇汉善者名昧蔡为宛王。
后岁余，宛贵人以为 昧蔡谄，使我国遇屠 ，相与共杀昧蔡，立毋寡弟蝉封为王，遣子入侍，质于汉，汉因使使赂赐镇抚之。
又发使十余辈，抵宛西诸国求奇物，因风谕以伐宛之威。
宛王蝉封与汉约，岁献天马二匹。
汉使采蒲陶、目宿种归。
天子以天马多，又外国使来众，益种蒲陶、目宿离宫馆旁，极望焉。
translation: 
There are more than seventy cities in Wanyu, and there are many good horses.
The horse's sweat is red, and it is said that the ancestor of this horse is the son of Tianma.
Zhang Qian then reported the situation in Dayuan to Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent an envoy with a thousand pieces of gold and gold horses to Dayuan to ask for good horses.
King Wan thought that the Han Dynasty was too far away and Han soldiers could not reach Dayuan. He loved his BMW and refused to give it to the Han Dynasty.
The envoy from Mo insulted King Wan, so Dawan attacked and killed the envoy from Han and seized the property of the envoy from Mo.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent General Li Guang of the Second Division to lead more than 100,000 troops to attack Dawan, and the attack continued for four years.
The Dawan people beheaded King Wuwi of Wan and sacrificed 3,000 horses before the Han army retreated. This incident is recorded in "The Biography of Zhang Qian".
The general of the Second Division beheaded Queen Wan, and appointed a pro-Han pro-Han among the Liwan nobles named Mecai as King Wan.
A year later, the Wan nobles believed that Mocai was ingratiating with the Han Dynasty and had caused Dayuan to be massacred, so they killed Mocai together and appointed his younger brother Chan as king. They sent the prince to Chang'an as a hostage. The Han Dynasty also sent envoys to reward and appease King Wan and others.
The Han Dynasty also sent more than ten groups of envoys to various countries west of Dayuan to search for rare property and show off the military power of the expedition against Dayuan.
Wan Wang Chanfeng made an appointment with the Han Dynasty and dedicated two Pegasus horses to the Han Dynasty every year.
The desert envoy collected some grape and alfalfa seeds and brought them back to Chang'an.
Because the emperor had many horses and envoys from foreign countries, he expanded the planting of grapes and alfalfa next to the palace annex, so that it could be seen as far as the eye could see.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
自宛以西至安息国，虽颇异言，然大同，自相晓知也。
其人皆深目，多须髯。
善贾市，争分铢。
贵女子，女子所言，丈夫乃决正。
其地无丝漆，不知铸铁器。
及汉使亡卒降，教铸作它兵器。
得汉黄白金，辄以为器，不用为币。
自乌孙以西至安息，近匈奴。
匈奴尝困月氏，故匈奴使持单于一信到国，国传送食，不敢留苦。
及至汉使，非出币物不得食，不市畜不得骑，所以然者，以远汉，而汉多财物，故必市乃得所欲。
及呼韩邪单于朝汉，后咸尊汉矣。
桃槐国，王去长安万一千八十里。
户七百，口五千，胜兵千人。
休循国，王治鸟飞谷，在葱岭西，去长安万二百一十里。
户三百五十八，口千三十，胜兵四百八十人。
translation: 
From Dawan to the west to Parthia, the residents along the way have different languages, but they are similar and they can understand each other's meaning.
The people in this bundle all have deep-set eyes and long beards.
He is good at doing business and will fight for every detail.
A noble woman; a man will do what a woman says.
This is wrapped in silk and lacquer, but I don't know if it's cast iron.
Later, the Han sent the escaped soldiers to live in the local area and taught these people how to forge iron tools and weapons.
They obtained gold and silver from the Han Dynasty, which were used as utensils and not as coins.
From Wusun, go west to Parthia, close to the Xiongnu.
The Xiongnu once created hardships for the Yuezhi, so as long as the Xiongnu sent someone with a letter from Shanyu, the Yuezhi would quickly deliver food, not daring to neglect and fear hardship.
But for the Han envoys who came, if they didn't give them property, they wouldn't be given food, and if they didn't buy livestock, they wouldn't have horses to ride on. So, just because the Han Dynasty was far away and had a lot of property, they couldn't get what they wanted without buying it.
After Hu Hanxie Chanyu submitted to the Han Dynasty, these countries all respected the Han Dynasty.
In the Peach Blossom Kingdom, the king traveled ten thousand and eighty miles to Chang'an.
It has a property of 700, a population of 5,000, and an army of 1,000.
In the Xiuxun Kingdom, the king ruled the Bird Flying Valley, west of Congling, and bound it to Chang'an for 10,210 miles.
There are 358 households, a population of 1,030, and an army of 480 people.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
东至都护治所三千一百二十一里，至捐毒衍敦谷二百六十里，西北至大宛国九百二十里，西至大月氏千六百一十里。
民俗衣服类乌孙，因畜随水草，本故塞种也。
捐毒国，王治衍敦谷，去长安九千八百六十里。
户三百八十，口千一百，胜兵五百人。
东至都护治所二千八百六十一里。
至疏勒。
南与葱岭属，无人民。
西上葱领，则休循也。
西北至大宛千三十里，北与乌孙接。
衣服类乌孙，随水草，依葱领，本塞种也。
莎车国，王治莎车城，去长安九千九百五十里。
户二千三百三十九，口万六千三百七十三，胜兵三千四十九人。
辅国侯、左右将、左右骑君、备西夜君各一人，都尉二人，译长四人。
东北至都护治所四千七百四十六里，西至疏勒五百六十里，西南至蒲犁七百四十里。
有铁山，出青玉。
宣帝时，乌孙公主小子万年，莎车王爱之。
莎车王无子，死，死时万年在汉。
translation: 
It extends 3,121 miles to Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Regions Governor, 260 miles to Yandu Valley, 920 miles to the northwest of Dayuan Kingdom, and 1,610 miles to Dayuezhi in the west.
The folk clothes are similar to those of Wusun, who live with livestock chasing water and grass. They are also descendants of Sai people.
The king ruled the Yandun Valley in the country of Zhendu, nine thousand eight hundred and sixty miles east to Chang'an.
There are 380 households, a population of 1,100, and an army of 500.
It was 2,861 miles away from Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Regions Protectorate.
To Shule.
The south is connected to Congling and has no residents.
Going west to Congling is Xiuxun.
It reaches Dawan for one thousand and thirty miles in the northwest and borders Wusun in the north.
The clothes are similar to those of Wusun. They live with livestock, water and grass, and cling to the green mountains. They are also descendants of Sai people.
In the Shache Kingdom, the king governed the city of Shache and extended it to Chang'an for nine thousand nine hundred and fifty miles.
There are 2,339 households, a population of 16,373, and an army of 3,049.
There are auxiliary princes. There is one general on the right, one knight on the left and right, and one king on the west night, two captains, and four chief translators.
It is 4,746 miles from Wulei City, the administrative center of the Western Regions, to the northeast, 560 miles to Shule in the west, and 140 miles to Pulishi in the southwest.
There are iron mines producing green jade.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty, Princess Wusun’s youngest son Wannian was deeply affected by Shakespeare! The king's love.
King Shache had no children. When he died, Wan Nian was in Chang'an of the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
莎车国人计欲自托于汉，又欲得乌孙心，即上书请万年为莎车王。
汉许之，遣使者奚充国送万年。
万年初立，暴恶，国人不说。
莎车王弟呼屠徵杀万年，并杀汉使者，自立为王，约诸国背汉。
会卫候冯奉世使送大宛客，即以便宜发诸国兵击杀之，更立它昆弟子为莎车王。
还，拜奉世为光禄大夫。
是岁，元康元年也。
疏勒国，王治疏勒城，去长安九千三百五十里。
户千五百一十，口万八千六百四十七，胜兵二千人。
疏勒侯、击胡侯、辅国侯、都尉、左右将、左右骑君、左右译长各一人。
东至都护治所二千二百一十里，南至莎车五百六十里。
有市列，西当大月氏、大宛、康居道也。
尉头国，王治尉头谷，去长安八千六百五十里。
户三百，口二千三百，胜兵八百人。
左右都尉各一人，左右骑君各一人。
东至都护治所千四百一十一里，南与疏勒接，山道不通，西至捐毒千三百一十四里，径道马行二日。
田畜随水草，衣服类乌孙。
translation: 
The people of the Shache Kingdom wanted to rely on the Han Dynasty and wanted to gain the favor of the Wusun Kingdom, so they wrote to Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty and asked Wan Nian to be the king of Shache.
Emperor Xuan agreed and sent an envoy Xi Chongguo to send Wannian to Yarkand.
When Wan Niangang became king, he was very tyrannical and the people of Shache disliked him very much.
Hu Tuzheng, the brother of the late King of Shache, killed Wannian and the envoys of the Han Dynasty, proclaimed himself king, and united with nearby countries to rebel against the Han Dynasty.
It happened that Feng Fengshi, the guard of the Han Dynasty, was sending guests from Dawan as an envoy, so he sent soldiers from nearby countries to kill Hutuzheng in the name of the Han Dynasty, and appointed Hutuzheng's nephew as King of Shache.
Feng Fengshi returned to Chang'an, and Emperor Xuan named him Doctor Guanglu.
The first year of creation was the first year of Yuankang.
In Shule Kingdom, the king governed the city of Shule Kingdom until dawn, which lasted nine thousand three hundred and fifty miles.
There are 1,510 households, a population of 18,647, and an army of 2,000.
There is one person each for Shulehou, Shihuhou, Fuguohou, Duwei, left and right generals, left and right cavalry commanders, and left and right interpreters.
It is 2,210 miles from Wulei City, the headquarters of the Western Regions Governor, and 560 miles from Shache to the south.
There is a market, and the west side is on the passage to Dayuezhi, Dayuan and Kangju.
In the Weitou Kingdom, the king governs Weitou Valley, which extends 8,650 miles east to Chang'an.
There are 300 households, 2,300 people, and 800 troops.
There is one captain each on the left and right, and one knight each on the left and right.
It is 1,411 miles from Shu to the Western Region Protectorate Office, and connects to Shule in the south. The mountain road is impassable. It is 1,314 miles from Giandu in the west. It can be reached in two days by horseback riding on the trail.
They farm and raise livestock and live in pursuit of water and grass. Their clothes are similar to those of Wusun.


