Chunk 0: 
original: 
固以为唐虞三代，《诗》、《书》所及，世有典籍，故虽尧，舜之盛，必有典谟之篇，然后扬名于后世，冠德于百王，故曰： 巍巍乎其有成功，焕乎其有文章也！
汉绍尧运，以建帝业，至于六世，史臣乃追述功德，私作本纪，编于百王之末，厕于秦、项之列。
太初以后，阙而不录，故探纂前记，辍辑所闻，以述《汉书》，起元高祖，终于孝平、王莽之诛，十有二世，二百三十年，综其行事，旁贯《五经》，上下洽通，为春秋考纪、表、志、传，凡百篇。
其叙曰：
皇矣汉祖，纂尧之绪，实天生德，聪明神武。
秦人不纲，罔漏于楚，爰兹发迹，断蛇奋旅。
神母告符，朱旗乃举，粤蹈秦郊，婴来稽首。
革命创制，三章是纪，应天顺民，五星同晷。
项氏畔换，黜我巴、汉，西土宅心，战士愤怒。
乘畔而运，席卷三秦，割据河山，保此怀民。
股肱萧、曹，社稷是经，爪牙信、布、腹心良、平、龚行天罚，赫赫明明。
述《高纪》第一。
孝惠短世，高世称制，罔顾天显，吕宗以败。述《惠纪》第二，《高后纪》第三。
太宗穆穆，允恭玄默，化民以躬，帅下以德，农不供贡，罪不收孥，宫不新馆，陵不崇墓。
我德如风，民应如草，国富刑清，登我汉道。
述《文纪》第四。
孝景莅政，诸侯方命，克伐七国，王室以定。
匪怠匪荒，务在农桑，著于甲令，民用宁康。
translation: 
Ban Gu believes that the Tang, Yao, Yu, Shun, Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, as well as the "Book of Songs" and "Shangshu" are related to the classics handed down in the world. Therefore, even in the ancient Yao and Shun period, there must be "Yao Canon". Only by writing chapters such as "Gao Tao Mo" can the reputation be spread to later generations, and the saintly virtue can be crowned above a hundred kings. Therefore, how great it is that they have achieved great success, and how brilliant they have formulated splendid regulations and systems!
The Han Dynasty inherited the national destiny of Tang Yao and established an imperial empire. In the era of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, the historian Sima Qian recalled the merits of the previous life and privately wrote the Chronicle of the Emperor, ranking the Han Dynasty after the Hundred Kings, in the same row as the Qin Dynasty and Xiang Yu.
Events after the Taichu reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty were not recorded, so I explored the biographies of my predecessors, compiled the materials I could hear, and wrote the "Book of Han". It started from the time of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty and ended with the murders of Xiaoping and Wang Mang, covering a total of twelve generations and 230 years.
The purpose of writing "Deshu" is as follows:
The great Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty inherited Yao's achievements. He was indeed born with virtue, intelligence and martial nature.
Qin violated the rules and regulations of governing the country, Chen Sheng's uprising against Qin failed, and Gaozu became prosperous from then on, killing snakes and raising troops.
The goddess informed him of the sign of destiny, so she raised the red flag and arrived at the outskirts of the capital of Qin. Ziying kowtowed to surrender.
The old system was abolished and a new system was established. Three chapters were established to govern the army and the people. The five stars of metal, wood, water, fire and earth gathered together in the same scene.
The Xiang family betrayed the covenant with Emperor Yi and demoted the great ancestor to Ba and Han. The people in the west returned to the desert, and the soldiers were filled with indignation at Xiang Yu's breach of the covenant.
Taking advantage of Xiang Yu's return to the east, he sent troops to sweep across the Three Qin Dynasties, seize Guanzhong and pacify the people.
Xiao He and Cao Shen were the assistant ministers, and the country was stabilized. Han Xin and Yingbu were the generals, and Zhang Liang and Chen Ping were the confidants. They respectfully carried out the destiny to punish the evil, created illustrious achievements, and shined the glory for future generations.
So he took the first place in writing "The Chronicles of Emperor Gaozu".
Emperor Xiaohui's reign was not long, and Empress Lu took charge of political affairs without caring about the destiny of the emperor. As a result, the Lu family was destroyed. So he wrote the second "Huidi Ji" and the third "Gaohou Ji".
Taizong was dignified in appearance, honest, respectful and modest. He used himself as an example to educate the people and controlled his ministers with kindness. No tribute will be paid for farming, no sinners will be slaves, no new palaces will be built, and no high tombs will be built in the mausoleum.
The virtue of the monarch is like the blowing wind, and the response of the people is like weeds blowing in the wind. The country is prosperous and strong, and there are few criminals, which makes the Han family prosperous.
So he wrote the fourth chapter of "The Chronicles of Emperor Wen".
After Emperor Xiaojing succeeded to the throne, the princes disobeyed the monarch's orders, but Emperor Jing put down the chaos in the Seven Kingdoms, and the royal family was able to stabilize.
Not slacking off or neglecting government affairs, paying attention to farming and raising silkworms, and promulgating this in important orders, the people can live in peace.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
述《景纪》第五。
世宗晔晔，思弘祖业，畴咨熙载，髦俊并作。
厥作伊何？
百蛮是攘，恢我疆宇，外博四荒。
武功既抗，亦迪斯文，宪章六学，统一圣真。
封禅郊祀，登秩百神；协律改正，飨兹永年。
述《武纪》第六。
孝昭幼冲，冢宰惟忠。
燕、盖诪张，实睿实聪，罪人斯得，邦家和同。
述《昭纪》第七。
中宗明明，夤用刑名，时举傅纳，听断惟精，柔远能迩，燀耀威灵，龙荒幕朔，莫不来庭。
丕显祖烈，尚于有成。
述《宣纪》第八。
孝元翼翼，高明柔克，宾礼故老，优繇亮直。
外割禁囿，内损御服，离宫不卫，山陵不邑。
阉尹之疵，秽我明德。
述《元纪》第九。
孝成煌煌，临朝有光，威仪之盛，如圭如璋。
壶闱恣赵，朝政在王，炎炎燎火，亦允不阳。述《成纪》第十。
孝哀彬彬，克揽威神，雕落洪支，底剭鼎臣。婉娈董公，惟亮天功，《大过》之困，实桡实凶。
述《哀纪》第十一。
孝平不造，新都作宰，不周不伊，丧我四海。
述《平纪》第十二。
汉初受命，诸侯并政，制自项氏，十有八姓。
述《异姓诸侯王表》第一。
太祖元勋，启立辅臣，支庶藩屏，侯王并尊。述《诸侯王表》第二。
侯王之祉，祚及宗子，公族蕃滋，支叶硕茂。
translation: 
So he wrote the fifth chapter of "Chronicles of Emperor Jing".
Emperor Wu was extremely talented and wanted to carry forward his ancestral heritage, select wise men who could build up the country, and employ outstanding heroes.
What are they used for?
Fight back the intrusions of various ethnic groups, expand the territory of the Han family, and open up barren areas.
It not only strengthens martial arts, but also enhances literary affairs, imitating the six classics of "Poetry", "Book", "Li", "Yi", "Yue", and "Spring and Autumn". Everything is based on the original intention of the sage.
Offering sacrifices in the suburbs of Zen, offering sacrifices to hundreds of gods; harmonizing music and changing the calendar so that generations can enjoy it.
So he wrote the sixth chapter of "Wudi Ji".
Emperor Xiaozhao ascended the throne at a young age, relying solely on the loyalty of his assistant ministers.
King Yan and Princess Gai deceived Emperor Zhao, but Emperor Zhao was smart and wise, so that the sinners were punished as they deserved, and the country was stabilized.
So he wrote the seventh chapter of "Chronicles of Emperor Zhao".
Emperor Xuan was wise and discerning, applied the theory of criminal names prudently, selected wise men in a timely manner, adopted good advice, and paid attention to accuracy in hearing and deciding cases. Comfort the people far away, be kind to the officials and people around you, and shine brightly. Showing his majesty and wisdom, all tribes from the remote deserts of Longcheng of the Xiongnu came to the court to see him.
It showed its ancestral heritage and achieved near-perfect success.
So he wrote the eighth "Xuan Di Ji".
Emperor Xiaoyuan treated people with respect and respect, had a wise attitude and was gentle and virtuous. He was able to treat old ministers of the previous dynasty with hospitality, and he was tolerant to ministers who were upright and straightforward.
The royal gardens and gardens were reduced outside the palace, the royal clothing and food were saved inside the palace, there were no guards outside the palace, and there were no villages or towns in the mausoleum area.
However, the shortcomings of reusing eunuchs tarnished his wise virtue.
So he wrote the ninth chapter of "Yuan Emperor Chronicle".
Emperor Cheng had a bright mind. When he went to court, he was full of energy and his appearance was as majestic as jade.
Sister Feiyan was extremely favored in the inner palace, and the power of the government was entrusted to Wang Feng and other relatives' families. In this way, even if the emperor became like a blazing fire, he would become dim and dull. So he wrote the tenth chapter of "Chronicles of the Emperor".
Emperor Xiaoai was a man of gentle character and able to monopolize power. He deposed the domineering Wang family, punished the powerful ministers Zhu Bo and Wang Jia, and appointed the beautiful Dong Gong as an important minister. He expected him to save the crisis and help the Han family remain undefeated. The hexagram "Da Guo" pointed out the predicament, indicating that if a small talent is used as a pillar, he will inevitably encounter dangers.
So he wrote the eleventh chapter of "Ai Di Ji".
Emperor Xiaoping could not succeed in his imperial career. Wang Mang, the new capital lord, was appointed prime minister. He did not have the same loyalty as Zhou Gong and Yi Yin, which ruined the Han family.
So he wrote the twelfth chapter of "Ping Di Ji".
When the Han Dynasty was first established, the princes were allowed to govern their own affairs. This system was founded by Xiang Yu, and there were a total of eighteen princes.
He ranked first in writing "List of Princes and Kings with Different Surnames".
The founding fathers of the country during the reign of Taizu, the appointed auxiliary ministers, the relatives of the Liu family's side branches, the guardians and barriers of the Han family, were named kings, and all obtained high positions. Second in writing "List of Princes and Kings".
The blessings of the princes are extended to their descendants, and their kin are multiplied and their branches and leaves are luxuriant.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
述《王子侯表》第三。
受命之初，赞功剖符，奕世弘业，爵土乃昭。
述《高惠高后孝文功臣侯表》第四。
景征吴、楚，武兴师旅，后昆承平，亦犹有绍。
述《景武昭宣元成哀功臣侯表》第五。
亡德不报，爰存二代，宰相外戚，昭韪见戒。
述《外戚恩泽侯表》第六。
汉迪于秦，有革有因，觕举僚职，并列其人。
述《百官公卿表》第七。
篇章博举，通于上下。略差名号，九品之叙。
述《古今人表》第八。
元元本本，数始于一，产气黄钟，造计秒忽。
八音七始，五声六律，度量权衡，历算逌出，官失学微，六家分乖，一彼一此，庶研其几。
述《律历志》第一。
上天下泽，春雷奋作，先王观象，爰制礼乐。
厥后崩坏，郑、卫荒淫，风流民化，湎湎纷纷。
略存大纲，以统旧文。
述《礼乐志》第二。
雷电皆至，天威震耀，五刑之作，是则是效，威实辅德，刑亦助教。
季世不详，背本争末，吴、孙狙诈，申、商酷烈，汉章九法，太宗改作，轻重之差，世有定籍。
述《刑法志》第三。
厥初生民，食货惟先。
割制庐井，定尔土田，什一供贡，下富上尊。
商以足用，茂迁有无，货自龟贝，至此五铢。
扬榷古今，监世盈虚。
述《食货志》第四。
translation: 
The third in writing "Princes and Marquises".
When Emperor Gaozu first came to the throne, he rewarded his auxiliary ministers and distributed reward certificates, so that his great achievements could be passed down from generation to generation, and his titles and fiefs would be famous for generations to come.
Wrote the fourth "Biao of the Meritorious Officials and Marquises of Empress Gao Hui and Gao Wen".
Emperor Jing conquered the rebellion of the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu, and Emperor Wu mobilized troops. Although the world was peaceful in later generations, some were rewarded with titles and fiefs for their merits.
The fifth author of the "Biao of Jingwu Zhaoxuan Yuan Chengai Meritorious Officials".
All ministers who were kind to the Han Dynasty were rewarded, and even the descendants of the Shang and Zhou dynasties were rewarded. The prime ministers and relatives of the Han Dynasty who had meritorious service were commended to promote right and wrong.
Wrote the sixth "Biao of Enze and Marquis of Foreign Relatives".
The Han Dynasty succeeded the Qin Dynasty, and there were changes in the system but also rules. Official positions were roughly listed, and the names of those who held them were pointed out.
He wrote the seventh list of "Hundred Officials and Officials".
All the names of people recorded in books and records have been collected extensively, covering ancient and modern times, roughly divided into names and arranged in order.
Wrote the eighth book of "Ancient and Modern Human Lists".
The origin of all things begins with their quantity. The Qi generated by the Huang Zhong Luguan and the smallest units of measurement, seconds and suddens, are no exception.
The seven tones of the eight tones, the six tones of the five tones, the measurement and weighing, and the data calculated by the calendar all reveal the number one. The government lost its standards and academics gradually declined.
So he wrote the first "Lü Li Zhi".
The upper part imitates the celestial phenomena, the lower part takes the shape of the Dharma pool, and the spring thunder shakes are all natural phenomena observed by the late kings, and the rituals and music were formulated accordingly.
Later, the rituals and music were destroyed, and the music of the Zheng and Wei Dynasties was popular. The royal family's morals were corrupted, and the common people imitated it and became a custom. It became popular everywhere, and the world was in chaos.
Preserve the outline of rituals and music to organize old texts.
So he wrote the second book of "Book of Rites and Music".
Thunder and lightning came together, and God showed his majesty and wrath. He created the five punishments to imitate this majesty. Majesty assists kindness, and punishment also assists in enlightenment.
At the end of the Spring and Autumn Period, the principles of trial and punishment were unclear, deviating from the fundamentals of moral education, and rushing to use punishment as an auxiliary means. Wu Qi and Sun Tzu were cunning, and Shen Buhai and Shang Yang used torture. The Han Dynasty had nine chapters of law, and Emperor Taizong abolished corporal punishment. The difference between severity and severity has been established in all dynasties.
Writing "Criminal Law Chronicles" third.
The original people put food and goods first.
Separate the houses and well fields in the fields, determine the people's land, pay one-tenth of the tribute, the people will be rich, and the king will be noble.
The merchants' enjoyment was satisfied, and what was available was exchanged. The currency started from turtles and shells to the current five-baht coin.
List agriculture, commerce and handicrafts in ancient and modern times, and examine the experiences and lessons of prosperity and poverty in the past.
So he wrote the fourth volume of "Food and Goods Chronicles".


Chunk 3: 
original: 
昔在上圣，昭事百神。类帝禋宗，望秩山川，明德惟馨，永世丰年。
季末淫祀，营信巫史，大夫胪岱，侯伯僣畤，放诞之徒，缘间而起。
瞻前顾后，正其终始。述《郊祀志》第五。
炫炫上天，县象著明，日月周辉，星辰垂精。
百官立法，宫室混成，降应王政，景以烛形。
三季之后，厥事放纷，举其占应，览故考新。
述《天文志》第六。
《河图》命庖，《洛书》赐禹，八卦成列，九畴逌叙。
世代实宝，光演文、武，《春秋》之占，咎征是举。
告往知来，王事之表。
述《五行志》第七。
《坤》作地势，高下九则，自昔黄、唐，经略万国，燮定东西，疆理南北。
三代损益，降及秦、汉，革铲五等，制立郡县。
略表山川，彰其剖判。
述《地理志》第八。
夏乘四载，百川是导。
唯河为艰，灾及后代。
商竭周移，秦决南涯，自兹歫汉，北亡八支。
文陻枣野，武作《瓠歌》，成有平年，后遂滂沱。
爰及沟渠，利我国家。
述《沟洫志》第九。
虙羲画卦，书契后作，虞夏商周，孔纂其业，纂《书》删《诗》，缀《礼》正《乐》，彖系大《易》，因史立法。
六学既登，遭世罔弘，群言纷乱，诸子相腾。
translation: 
In the past, during the Shangsheng era, people worshiped hundreds of gods, offered sacrifices to heaven and earth, and looked to the gods of mountains and rivers. Their virtues spread to distant places and achieved long-lasting harvests.
In the declining years, sacrifices were carried out indiscriminately, and people who believed in witchcraft and deceit were gullible. Officials also began to travel to Mount Tai to offer sacrifices. Hou Bo jumped over the rank to offer sacrifices to the Five Emperors Temple. Arrogant people took advantage of the opportunity.
Examine ancient and modern times and accurately record the beginning and end of sacrificial activities. The fifth time he wrote "Jiu Si Zhi Zhi".
In the sky that shines with light, various conspicuous stars hang. The sun and moon are shining brightly, and the stars are hung with the light of essence.
Among them, the officials have their own rules and regulations, and the palaces are also intertwined, and they follow the king's administration like a shadow.
After the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, things became complicated and complicated. Examples of divination fulfillment were cited, and old things were observed to explore new things.
Wrote the sixth Astronomical Chronicle.
God gave the "River Map" to Fuxi and the "Luoshu" to Dayu. The eight trigrams were arranged in order, and the nine rules of governing the country were recorded.
It has been regarded as a treasure from generation to generation, and its brilliance shines on King Wen and King Wu. According to the fortune-telling in "Spring and Autumn", bad omens have been cited.
Tell the past to predict the future, and the king's affairs will be clear.
So he wrote the seventh chapter of "Five Elements Chronicles".
The hexagram "Kun" indicates the terrain, which is divided into nine levels of good and bad. In the past, Huangdi and Tang Yao governed many countries, harmonizing the east and west, and comprehensively managing the north and south.
There were increases and decreases in the three dynasties. In the Qin and Han dynasties, they were reduced to five levels and the system of prefectures and counties was established.
Briefly describe the mountain and river situation and indicate the geographical divisions.
So he wrote the eighth "Geographical Notes".
Xia Yu took four kinds of transportation to go to various places to divert hundreds of rivers.
Only the Yellow River is the most difficult to manage, and disasters will affect future generations.
The Yellow River dried up in the Shang Dynasty, changed its course in the Zhou Dynasty, and the Qin State broke through the south bank of the river. From then on to the Han Dynasty, the eight tributaries of the Yellow River in the north disappeared.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty blocked the river in Suanzao County, and Emperor Wu wrote "Song of the Gourd" at the breach of the Yellow River. When he became emperor, the Yellow River was in peace, but soon there was a flood.
When the ditches are repaired, the river water will benefit the country and enrich the people.
So he wrote the ninth chapter of "Gou Xi Zhi".
Liu Xi painted the Eight Diagrams, which later gave rise to writing. The Yu, Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties prospered one after another. Confucius compiled their achievements, compiled the Book of Songs and deleted the Book of Songs, edited the Zhou Rites, revised the Music Book and the Book of Changes, wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals based on the Lu History, and established a code of conduct for the emperors.
After the completion of the six kinds of classics, it was unable to be promoted in troubled times. Hundreds of schools of thought had different opinions and various schools of thought emerged.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
秦人是灭，汉修其缺，刘向司籍，九流以别。
爰著目录，略序洪烈。述《艺文志》第十。
上嫚下暴，惟盗是伐，胜、广熛起，梁、籍扇烈。
赫赫炎炎，遂焚咸阳，宰割诸夏，命立侯王，诛婴放怀，诈虐以亡。
述《陈胜项籍传》第一。
张、陈之交，斿如父子，携手遁秦，拊翼俱起。
据国争权，还为豺虎，耳谋甘公，作汉藩辅。
述《张耳陈馀传》第二。
三枿之起，本根既朽，枯杨生华，曷惟其旧！
横虽雄材，伏于海隝，沐浴尸乡，北面奉首，旅人慕殉，义过《黄鸟》。
述《魏豹田儋韩信传》第三。
信惟饿隶，布实黥徒，越亦狗盗，芮尹江湖。
云起龙襄，化为侯王，割有齐、楚，跨制淮、梁。
绾自同闬，镇我北疆，德薄位尊，非胙惟殃。
吴克忠信，胤嗣乃长。
述《韩彭英卢吴传》第四。
贾廑从旅，为镇淮、楚。
泽王琅邪，权激诸吕。
濞之受吴，疆土逾矩，虽戒东南，终用齐斧。
述《荆燕吴传》第五。
太上四子：伯兮早夭，仲氏王代，斿宅于楚。
戊实淫，平陆乃绍。
其在于京，奕世宗正，劬劳王室，用侯阳成。
子政博学，三世成名，述《楚元王传》第六。
季氏之诎，辱身毁节，信于上将，议臣震栗。
translation: 
Emperor Qin burned hundreds of schools of thought, and the Han Dynasty repaired this flaw. Liu Xiang took charge of the classics and distinguished nine major schools.
So he compiled a catalog of books, summarizing the origins of hundreds of schools, and achieved great success. The tenth article was written in "Yiwenzhi".
The monarch is arrogant and unreasonable, and uses violence against the people, which can only force the people to rise up. The rise of Chen Sheng and Wu Guang is like fierce fire and wind, and the rise of Xiang Liang and Xiang Ji is like flying flames.
The momentum was as great as a prairie fire, so Xiang Yu set fire to Xianyang, dominated the Central Plains, issued orders to confer kings and marquises, killed his children and deposed the king, and perished due to fraud and tyranny.
Wrote the first chapter of "The Biography of Chen Sheng Xiang Ji".
The friendship between Zhang Er and Chen Yu was like father and son, joining hands to escape the violent Qin Dynasty and fly together.
After gaining power, they fought for power in the country, but instead devoured each other like tigers and wolves. Zhang Er followed Gan Gong's advice and returned to the Han Dynasty to become an assistant minister to the vassal king.
He was second in writing "The Biography of Zhang Er and Chen Yu".
The remnants of the three branches were resurrected, and the soil was already rotten, and the withered poplars were blooming, but it didn't take long!
Although Tian Heng was a talented man, he was on an isolated island in the sea. He returned and traveled to the corpse village. He committed suicide by taking a bath and had his head offered as a sign of submission. His followers admired him so much that he died beside Tian Heng's tomb. His loyalty is even greater than that of Duke Mu of Qin in "The Yellow Bird".
He wrote the third biography of Wei Baotian and Han Xin.
Han Xin was a hungry man, Ying Bu was a tattooed prisoner, Peng Yue was also a thief, and Wu Rui was just the county magistrate in charge of the Jiang and Hu areas.
At the turn of events, the four of them became princes and captured the areas of Qi and Chu, as well as Huainan and Liang.
Lu Wan, who was from the same hometown as Gaozu, guarded the northern frontier for Moshi. His moral character was shallow but his status was high, and he had no luck or disaster.
Wu Rui was able to remain loyal and honest, and future generations were able to inherit his position for a long time.
Wrote the fourth biography of Han Pengying and Lu Wu.
Jia Ji joined the army and guarded the Huai and Chu areas for the Han Dynasty.
Liu Ze was granted the title of King of Langya, and obtained the throne by persuading Empress Lu to make Zhu Lu king.
Liu Bi was granted the title of King of Wu, and his fiefdom exceeded the system regulations. Although he guarded the southeast and was warned not to rebel, he was eventually punished with swords and axes.
He wrote the fifth biography of Jing Yan and Wu.
Liu Taigong, the father of Gaozu, had four sons: the eldest son died young, the second son was named king of Dai Kingdom, and Liu Bo was named King of Chu Yuan.
Liu Wuhuang was licentious and charming, but Pingluhou Liu Li could still inherit his father's legacy.
He served in the capital, was an official of Zongzheng for generations, worked hard for the royal family, and was named Marquis of Yangcheng by his descendant Liu Def.
Liu Xiang was erudite and became famous through three generations of Yuan, Cheng and Ai. The sixth in writing "The Biography of King Chu Yuan".
Ji's injustice ruined his reputation, and his statement of the general's fault shocked the ministers.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
栾公哭梁，田叔殉赵，见危授命，谊动明主，布历燕、齐，叔亦相鲁，民思其政，或金或社。
述《季布栾布田叔传》第七。
高祖八子，二帝六王。
三赵不辜，淮厉自亡，燕灵绝嗣，齐悼特昌。
掩有东土，自岱徂海，支庶分王，前后九子。
六国诛毙，適齐亡祀。
城阳、济北，后承我国。
赳赳景王，匡汉社稷。
述《高五王传》第八。
猗与元勋，包汉举信，镇守关中，足食成军，营都立宫，定制修文。
平阳玄默，继而弗革，民用作歌，化我淳德，汉之宗臣，是谓相国。
述《萧何曹参传》第九。
留侯袭秦，作汉腹心，图折武关，解厄鸿门。
推齐销印，驱至越、信；招宾四老，惟宁嗣君。
陈公扰攘，归汉乃安，毙范亡项，走狄擒韩，六奇既设，我罔艰难。
安国廷争，致仕杜门。
绛侯矫矫，诛吕尊文。
亚夫守节，吴、楚有勋。
述《张陈王周传》第十。
舞阳鼓刀，滕公厩驺，颍阴商贩，曲周庸夫，攀龙附凤，并乘天衢。
述《樊郦滕灌傅靳周传》第十一。
北平志古，司秦柱下，定汉章程，律度之绪。
建平质直，犯上干色；广阿之廑，食厥旧德。
故安执节，责通请错，蹇蹇帝臣，匪躬之故。
translation: 
Le Bu was not afraid of death and went to mourn Peng Yue who was killed. Uncle Tian was willing to accompany the king to be buried. His character showed up in the crisis, and his friendship moved the wise monarch. Lebu served as officials in Yan and Qi successively, and Uncle Tian also served as prime minister of Lu. The people were grateful for their political achievements. Some people sent money to Uncle Tian after his death, and some built a sacrificial shrine when Uncle Tian was alive.
The seventh author of "The Biography of Uncle Butian Jibu Le".
Emperor Gaozu had eight sons, two of whom were emperors and six who were kings.
The three kings of Zhao were killed without charge, King Li of Huainan destroyed himself, King Ling of Yan had no successor, and only King Qi Duhui prospered.
He fed on the land of the east, from Mount Tai to the sea, and his descendants' tribes were divided into kings, with a total of nine sons before and after him.
Six of them were destroyed, and the main king of Qi had no one to succeed him.
King Chengyang and King Jibei later inherited the territory.
The mighty King Jing helped the Han Dynasty achieve great success.
Wrote the eighth "Biography of the High Five Kings".
Yi and Yuan Xun occupied Hanzhong and recommended Han Xin, guarded Guanzhong, provided food and soldiers, and built Kyoto and a palace.
Develop a legal system. Marquis Pingyang stayed quiet and did nothing, inheriting the old system without changing it. The people praised him and cultivated simple moral character. The most respected minister in the Han Dynasty was the Prime Minister.
He wrote the ninth biography of Xiao He and Cao Shen.
Zhang Liang, the remaining marquis, attacked Qin Shihuang and later became the king of Han: his confidant. He offered his plan to outwit Wuguan and relieve the danger of Hongmen.
He persuaded the King of Han to recognize Han Xin as the King of Qi, and suggested destroying the seal used to confer the title of king. He used a trick to dispatch Peng Yue and Han Xin to participate in the Battle of Gaixia as scheduled. He also offered advice to Empress Lu to recruit the four elders of Shangshan and stabilized the status of the crown prince.
Chen Ping was busy and settled down after returning to the Han Dynasty. He used the alienation plan to kill Fan Zeng and defeated Xiang Yu. He used the clever plan to make the Xiongnu withdraw the soldiers and horses surrounding Pingcheng. The pseudo-youyunmeng plan caused Han Xin to be captured. Six extraordinary plans saved the Han Dynasty from disaster.
An Guohou Wang Ling dared to face the court's objections and remonstrated with Lu to become the king. In the end, he had to resign and return to his hometown to thank guests behind closed doors.
Zhou Bo, the Marquis of Jiang, was brave enough to kill Zhu Lu and welcome Emperor Wen.
Zhou Yafu adhered to his integrity and made great achievements in quelling the rebellion of the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu.
He wrote the tenth biography of Zhang, Chen and Wang Zhou.
Fan Sha, the Marquis of Wuyang, made a career out of butchering dogs, Duke Teng drove horses and raised horses, Marquis Yingyin sold silk and silk, Marquis Li of Quzhou was a mediocre person, following Gaozu and attached to Empress Lu, they were all granted the title of marquis and entered the heavenly road.
He wrote the tenth biography of Fan Li, Tengguan and Fu Jinzhou.
Fan Lu, the Marquis of Beiping, recorded ancient events, served as the pillar of the Qin Dynasty, compiled the calendar system of the Han Dynasty, and adjusted the music and rhythm.
Marquis Jianping had an upright temperament and dared to offend the emperor's dignity and did not act according to the emperor's face; Marquis Guang'a Ren Ao worked diligently and was rewarded with a fief for his great kindness in saving Empress Lu.
Therefore, the Marquis of An was honest and upright, reproached Deng Tong for being negligent and rude, and requested that Chao Cuo be killed. The minister who had suffered many disasters was not for his own personal gain.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
述《张周赵任申屠传》第十二。
食其监门，长揖汉王，画袭陈留，进收敖仓，寒隘杜津，王基以张。
贾作行人，百越来宾，从容风议，博我以文。
敬繇役夫，迁京定都，内强关中，外和匈奴。
叔孙奉常，与时抑扬，税介免胄，礼义是创。
或哲或谋，观国之光，述《郦陆朱娄叔孙传》第十三。
淮南僣狂，二子受殃。
安辩而邪，赐顽以荒，敢行称乱，窘世荐亡。
述《淮南衡山济北传》第十四。
蒯通一说，三雄是败，覆郦骄韩，田横颠沛。
被之拘系，乃成患害。
充、躬罔极，交乱弘大。
述《蒯伍江息夫传》第十五。
万石温温，幼寤圣君，宜尔子孙，夭夭伸伸，庆社于齐，不言动民。
卫、直、周、张，淑慎其身。
述《万石卫直周张传》第十六。
孝文三王，代孝二梁，怀折亡嗣，孝乃尊光。
内为母弟，外扞吴、楚，怙宠矜功，僣欲失所，思心既霿，牛祸告妖。
帝庸亲亲，厥国五分，德不堪宠，四支不传。
述《文三王传》第十七。
贾生娇娇，弱冠登朝。
遭文睿圣，屡抗其疏，暴秦之戒，三代是据。
建设藩屏，以强守圉，吴、楚合从，赖谊之虑。
述《贾谊传》第十八。
子丝慷慨，激辞纳说，揽辔正席，显陈成败。
translation: 
The twelfth chapter of "The Biography of Zhang Zhou's Journey to Ren Shentu" was written.
Li Shiqi was appointed as the official of the prison gate in the countryside. When he first met the King of Han, Liu Bang did not treat him politely, so he bowed to him without bowing. He offered suggestions to seize Chenliu, advance to Aocang, occupy the fortress and control the crossing, thus laying the foundation of the emperor.
Lu Mai served as an envoy and brought the Baiyue people to come to the Han Dynasty to become ministers. He calmly offered advice and persuaded the great ancestor to show his literary talent.
Liu Jing was a laborer who proposed to move the capital to Chang'an in order to consolidate Guanzhong internally and make peace with the Xiongnu externally.
Shusun Tong was appointed as Fengchang, and he was able to converge weapons and create etiquette according to the trend of the times.
All wise and resourceful people should be appointed to serve in the government. The thirteenth edition of "The Biography of Li Lu, Zhu Lou and Uncle Sun".
The King of Huainan overstepped his authority arrogantly, and as a result his two sons suffered disaster.
Liu An was skillful in his words and sycophantic in his actions, Liu Ci was stupid and absurd, and dared to cause chaos. As a result, his father and son were frequently defeated.
The fourteenth chapter of "The Biography of Hengshan and Jibei in Huainan" was written.
Kuai Tong said a word, and the three heroes were defeated at the same time, causing Wong Shi to be cooked and killed, inciting Han Xin to rebel against the desert, and sending Tian Heng into exile.
Wu surrendered and was arrested for treason. Instead, he was killed, causing harm to his parents.
Jiang Chong and Xifu Gong slandered endlessly and disrupted the great cause of the Han family.
The fifteenth day of writing "The Biography of Kuai Wujiang Xifu".
Wan Shijun was gentle and respectful, and he moved the great ancestor when he was young. His descendants were happy, harmonious and comfortable, and Shi Qing was in harmony. He did not give orders but the people would take action.
Wei Wan, Zhi Buyi, Zhou Ren, and Zhang Xi are kind and cautious in their words and deeds.
Wrote the sixteenth biography of Wan Shiweizhi and Zhou Zhang.
Emperor Xiaowen's three sons were named kings, namely King Dai Xiao, King Xiao of Liang, and King Huai of Liang. King Huai fell from his horse and died without an heir. King Xiao of Liang was deeply loved.
At home, King Xiao was the younger brother of Emperor Jing. He fought against the Wu and Chu rebels externally. He relied on his favor to show off his achievements. His desire for power and enjoyment exceeded his duty. His thoughts were confused. The birth of a monster foreshadowed disaster.
Emperor Wen implemented the principle of keeping close relatives and divided the Liang Kingdom into five small feudal states. Among them, there was no kindness to speak of, and the four branches were never passed down.
Wrote the 17th "Biography of Three Kings Wen".
Jia Sheng had outstanding literary talent and entered the court at the age of twenty.
Emperor Wen, who met the sage Ming, wrote many times to explain the lessons of the downfall of the Qin Dynasty and the reasons for the prosperity of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties.
They built fences to protect the central government in order to strengthen the defense of the country. Wu and Chu united the seven kingdoms to rebel, and they mostly relied on friendship to make plans.
The eighteenth chapter of "The Biography of Jia Yi" was written.
Zisi made impassioned speeches, eagerly offered suggestions, held the bridle to stop Emperor Wen from flying through the mountains, stopped the emperor and his concubine from sitting at the same table with Concubine Ji, and explained the truth about success or failure.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
错之琐材，智小谋大，祸如发机，先寇受害。
述《爰盎朝错传》第十九。
释之典刑，国宪以平。
冯公矫魏，增主之明。
长孺刚直，义形于色，下折淮南，上正元服。
庄之推贤，于兹为德。
述《张冯汲郑传》第二十。
荣如辱如，有机有枢，自下摩上，惟德之隅。赖依忠正，君子采诸。
述《贾邹枚路传》第二十一。
魏其翩翩，好节慕声，灌夫矜勇，武安骄盈，凶德相挻，祸败用成。
安国壮趾，王恢兵首，彼若天命，此近人咎。
述《窦田灌韩传》第二十二。
景十三王，承文之庆。
鲁恭馆室，江都訬轻；赵敬险诐，中山淫醟；长沙寂漠，广川亡声；胶东不亮，常山骄盈。
四国绝祀，河间贤明，礼乐是修，为汉宗英。
述《景十三王传》第二十三。
李广恂恂，实获士，控弦贯石，威动北邻，躬战七十，遂死于军。
敢怨卫青，见讨去病。
陵不引决，忝世灭姓。
苏武信节，不诎王命。
述《李广苏建传》第二十四。
长平桓桓，上将之元，薄伐猃允，恢我朔边，戎车七征，冲輣闲闲，合围单于，北登阗颜。
票骑冠军，猋勇纷纭，长驱六举，电击雷震，饮马翰海，封狼居山，西规大河，列郡祁连。
述《卫青霍去病传》第二十五。
抑抑仲舒，再相诸侯，身修国治，致仕县车，下帷覃思，论道属书，谠言访对，为世纯儒。
述《董仲舒传》第二十六。
文艳用寡，子虚乌有，寓言淫丽，托风终始，见识博物，有可观采，蔚为辞宗，赋颂之首。
translation: 
Chao Cuo had a subtle talent, a small intellect but a big plan. Disasters came as quickly as crossbow arrows, and he suffered disasters before the Wu and Chu rebels.
The 19th "The Biography of Yuan Anchao Cuo" was written.
Zhang Shizhi was in charge of punishment and prison, and the national law was maintained.
Feng Tang argued and commented on Wei Shang's merits, which increased the monarch's wisdom.
Ji An was upright and upright, and his righteous heart was evident on the outside. The king of Huainan below was afraid that he would remonstrate with him if he rebelled, and the emperor Wu above did not dare to meet Ji An if he was not neatly dressed.
Zheng Zhuang recommended virtuous ministers and contributed to Moshi.
The 20th chapter of "The Biography of Zhang Feng Jizheng" was written.
The glory or shame lies in mastering the cardinals and motivating the monarch for free. Only those with good conduct can do it. Rely on loyalty, integrity, and upright people to practice.
Wrote the 21st chapter of "The Biography of Jia Zou Meilu".
The Marquis of Wei was complacent, advocating integrity and liking reputation, Guan Fu boasted of his bravery, and the Marquis of Wu'an was arrogant and unruly, and their vicious natures led to disaster and disaster.
Han Anguo suffered a foot injury, and Wang Hui made the first decision to send troops. The former seemed to be caused by destiny, but the latter was almost caused by human fault.
Wrote the 22nd "Biography of Dou Tian Guan Han".
The son of Emperor Jing was named the Thirteenth King and inherited the blessings from Emperor Wen.
King Lu Gong likes to build palaces and buildings, King Jiangdu is agile and strong; King Zhao Jing is eccentric and arrogant, King Zhongshan often drinks too much; King Changsha is taciturn, King Guangchuan is silent; King Jiaodong is ignorant, and King Changshan is full of arrogance.
There were no heirs in the four kingdoms. He Wen Wang Xianming, revising rituals and music, was a talent highly respected by the Han family.
Wrote the 22nd Biography of the Thirteen Kings of Jing.
Li Guangqian was cautious and won the hearts of soldiers. His arrows could penetrate rocks, which shocked the neighboring Huns in the north. After more than seventy battles, he finally died in the army.
Li Gan resented Wei Qing and died under Huo Qubing's arrow.
Li Ling was unable to commit suicide after his defeat, which humiliated the Li family.
Su Wu showed his integrity and lived up to the king's order.
Writing "The Biography of Li Guangsu Jian" twenty-fourth.
Wei Qing, the Marquis of Changping, was extremely powerful and could be called the leader of the generals. He crusaded against the Huns and expanded the northern territory of the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty's army marched northward seven times. The marching team was calm and measured, surrounded Shanyu, and climbed north to Tianyan Mountain.
The hussar general was the bravest of the entire army, as fierce as a storm, and attacked the Huns with six long drives, like thunder and lightning. The horses arrived at Hanhai, and the soldiers climbed to Langju Mountain, peered westward towards the river, and established counties all the way to the Qilian Mountains.
Writing the twenty-fifth biography of Wei Qing and Huo Qubing.
Dong Zhongshu was rigorous in his studies. He served as prime minister twice and cultivated his body and mind to govern the country.
Writing the twenty-sixth biography of Dong Zhongshu.
The article is gorgeous but rarely practical, with fictitious gifts and gorgeous allegorical words. The whole article is full of satirical admonitions to the emperor and princes. The article is well-informed and has a broad knowledge of all things. The literary talent is quite impressive. The richness of the rhetoric can be regarded as a master of a generation, and the poems and odes can also be regarded as the first of a generation.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
述《司马相如传》第二十七。
平津斤斤，晚跻金门，既登爵位，禄赐颐贤，布衾疏食，用俭饬身。
卜式耕牧，以求其志，忠寤明君，乃爵乃试。
皃生亶，束发修学，偕列名臣，从政辅治。
述《公孙弘卜式皃宽传》第二十八。
张汤遂达，用事任职，媚兹一人，日旰忘令，既成宠禄，亦罗咎慝。
安世温良，塞渊其德，子孙遵业，全祚保国。
述《张汤传》第二十九。
杜周治文，唯上浅深，用取世资，幸而免身。
延年宽和，列于名臣。
钦用材谋，有异厥伦。述《杜周传》第三十。
博望杖节，收功大夏；贰师秉钺，身畔胡社。
致死为福，每生作祸。
述《张骞李广利传》第三十一。
乌呼史迁，薰胥以刑！
幽而发愤，乃思乃精，错综群言，古今是经，勒成一家，大略孔明。
述《司马迁传》第三十二。
孝武六子，昭、齐亡嗣。
燕刺谋逆，广陵祝诅。
昌邑短命，昏贺失据，戾园不幸，宣承天序。
述《武五子传》第三十三。
六世耽耽，其欲浟々，方武方作，是庸四克。
助、偃、淮南，数子之德，不忠其身，善谋于国。
述《严朱吾丘主父徐严终王贾传》第三十四。
东方赡辞，诙谐倡优，讥苑扞偃，正谏举邮，怀肉污殿，弛张沉浮。述《东方朔传》第三十五。
葛绎内宠，屈氂王子。
千秋时发，宜春旧仕。
translation: 
Writing the twenty-seventh biography of Sima Xiangru.
Gongsun Hong, the Marquis of Pingjin, was aware of everything and entered Kinmen in his later years. After receiving the title of nobility, he used his private salary to support worthy people, wore common clothes and ate rough food, and restrained himself through frugality.
Bu Shi cultivates and herds, pursues his ambitions, is loyal to the wise king, and is awarded titles and official positions.
Ni Sheng was diligent, tied up his hair in a bun, studied and cultivated knowledge, was listed as a famous minister, and participated in assisting the government.
Wrote the twenty-eighth biography of Gongsun Hongbu Shi Ni Kuan.
Zhang Tang has a sensible temperament, works as an official, and is deeply favored by the emperor. He always works without sleep or food. Although he has become a favored official, he will be accused of crimes.
Zhang Anshi was kind-hearted by nature and had profound virtues. His descendants would inherit his achievements and protect the country.
The twenty-ninth chapter of "The Biography of Zhang Tang" was written.
Du Zhou administered prisons and enforced the law only in accordance with the emperor's will, and was used by generations to come. Fortunately, he was spared from disaster.
His son Du Yannian was generous and gentle, and ranked among the famous ministers.
His grandson Du Qin was farsighted and outstanding. The 30th chapter of "The Biography of Du Zhou" was written.
Zhang Qian, the Marquis of Bowang, was ordered to go on an envoy and was credited with being the envoy to Daxia. The general of the Second Division led his troops on an expedition and was captured and killed by the Huns for blood sacrifice.
Those who are not afraid of death will survive and be granted the title of marquis; those who are greedy for life and afraid of death will surrender to the enemy, which will eventually lead to death.
The thirty-first chapter of "The Biography of Zhang Qian and Li Guangli" was written.
ah!
The historian Sima Qian was not guilty but was implicated and was tortured. He worked hard to write history in confinement. He thought deeply, synthesized the opinions of hundreds of schools of thought, and connected ancient and modern historical events. His writings became a family statement with a clear purpose.
So he wrote the thirty-second biography of Sima Qian.
Emperor Xiaowu had six sons, Emperor Zhao and King Qi had no heirs.
King Yanla rebelled and was killed, and King Guangling committed curse and committed suicide.
King Changyi was short-lived, and his son Liu He lost the opportunity to inherit the throne. Prince Ruo met with misfortune, and Emperor Xuan succeeded to the throne.
The thirty-third chapter of "Biography of the Five Sons of Wu" was written.
Emperor Wu was a man of great prestige in the world and had a deep desire for quick success. He used both civil and military skills to open up the world.
Yan Zhu, Zhu Fuyan, and Huainan King Liu An, according to their respective characters, could not love themselves, but they were good at making suggestions for the country.
The thirty-fourth chapter of "The Biography of Xu Yanzhong, the Master of Yanzhuwuqiu" was written.
Dongfang Shuo was good at words, making fun of songs, dances, and plays. He satirized and stopped his father Yan's proposal to expand Shanglin Garden. He directly rebuked the emperor's mistakes. He cut himself off and put the meat in his arms. He urinated in the palace after being drunk and lay down. His behavior was indulgent and informal. Writing the thirty-fifth "Biography of Dongfang Shuo".
Ge Yihou was favored by the harem, and Liu Quyou was the son of Prince Jing of Zhongshan.
The chariot rises at the right time, and the Marquis of Yichun is an old minister of Moshi.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
敞、义依霍，庶几云已。
弘惟政事，万年容己。
咸睡厥诲，熟为不子？
述《公孙刘田杨王蔡陈郑传》第三十六。
王孙裸葬，建乃斩将。
云廷讦禹，福逾刺凤，是谓狂狷，敞近其衷。
述《杨胡朱梅云传》第三十七。
博陆堂堂，受遗武皇，拥毓孝昭，末命导扬。
曹家不造，立帝废王，权定社稷，配忠阿衡。
怀禄耽宠，渐化不详，阴妻之逆，至子而亡。
秺侯狄孥，虔恭忠信，奕世载德，贝也于子孙。
述《霍光金日磾传》第三十八。
兵家之策，惟在不战。
营平皤皤，立功立论，以不济可，上谕其信。
武贤父子，虎臣之俊。
述《赵充国辛庆忌传》第三十九。
义阳楼兰，长罗昆弥，安远日逐，义成郅支。
陈汤诞节，救在三哲；会宗勤事，疆外之桀。
述《傅常郑甘陈段传》第四十。
不疑肤敏，应变当理，辞霍不婚，逡遁致仕。
疏克有终，散金娱老。
定国之祚，于其仁考。
广德、当、宣，近于知耻。
述《隽疏于薜平彭传》第四十一。
四皓遁秦，古之逸民，不营不拔，严平、郑真。
吉因于贺，涅而不缁；禹既黄发，以德来仕。
舍惟正身，胜死善道；郭钦、蒋诩，近遁之好。
述《王贡两龚鲍传》第四十二。
translation: 
Yang Chang and Cai Yi obeyed Huo Guang's will, and they were almost all people who were not beneficial to the country.
Zheng Hong only worked on political affairs, while Chen Wannian took care of himself to protect his position.
Chen Xian fell asleep while listening to his father's teachings. Who is the unworthy son?
The thirty-sixth chapter of "The Biography of Gongsun Liu Tian Yang Wang Cai Chen Zheng" was written.
Yang Wangsun was buried naked, and Hu Jian killed the supervisor first according to the law.
Zhu Yun reprimanded Prime Minister Zhang Yu in court, Mei Fu wrote a letter to ridicule General Wang Feng, which can be described as aggressive, while Yun Chang was close to compromise.
Wrote the thirty-seventh biography of Yang Hu and Zhu Meiyun.
Marquis Bolu was a dignified person, and he was ordered by Emperor Wu to assist Emperor Xiaozhao, and Emperor Wu's order was promoted.
When he met a new master, he could not be promoted. He welcomed Emperor Xuan and abolished the king of Changyi, and stabilized the Liu family. He can be called a minister of the country.
Being favored by a generous salary, he gradually changed and concealed his wife's treachery, and his children suffered the disaster of annihilation of their clan and family.
Zhuhou Jinyueyan is the son of King Xiutu of the Xiongnu tribe. He is respectful and loyal, and his virtues will be recorded forever and passed on to future generations.
Wrote the thirty-eighth biography of Huo Guangjin.
The best strategy for a military strategist is to make people surrender without fighting.
The white-haired Marquis of Yingping made great achievements and used the strategy of farming to replace Emperor Xuan's order to go out to conquer the Qiang people, thus gaining the emperor's trust.
Xin Wuxian and his son are known as tiger ministers.
Writing the thirty-ninth biography of Zhao Chongguo and Xin Qingji.
Marquis Yiyang killed King Loulan, Marquis Changluo supported King Kunmi, Marquis Anyuan welcomed King Zhu and surrendered to the Han Dynasty, and Marquis Yicheng killed Zhizhi Shanyu.
Chen Tang was unruly and unruly, but the emperor punished him and Liu Xiang and three other people rescued him. Duan Huizong was diligent in royal affairs and was a hero who was sent to the Western Regions.
The fortieth chapter of "The Biography of Fu Chang, Zheng Gan and Chen Duan" was written.
Jun Buyi was beautiful, smart, able to adapt to situations, and was good at distinguishing between true and false. He refused Huo Guang's proposal to marry her as a daughter, and retired from officialdom.
Shu Guang died a good death and spent his old age happily with his old friends by donating his money.
Yu Dingguo's blessing lies in his kind father.
Xue Guangde, Pingdang, and Peng Xuan were unsatisfied with their positions and were close to knowing their shame.
Wrote the 41st chapter of "The Biography of Jun Shu Yu Xue Ping and Peng".
Sihao of Shangshan escaped from the tyranny of the Qin Dynasty. He was a reclusive person in ancient times. His noble status and wealth could not interfere with his ambitions, and his power could not bend his body. He could be compared with the strict gentleman and Zheng Zhen.
Wang Ji was implicated by Liu He, the king of Changyi, but he emerged from the filth untainted; Gong Yu was old and was able to become an official because of his honest character.
Gong She did not want to hold office and wanted to cultivate himself. Gong Sheng resigned and returned to his hometown and had a good death. Guo Qin and Jiang Xiang almost escaped from the world and had a happy ending.
Wrote the 42nd Biography of Wang Gong and Gong Bao.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
扶阳济济，闻《诗》闻《礼》。
玄成退让，仍世作相。
汉之宗庙，叔孙是谟，革自孝元，诸儒变度。
国之诞章，博载其路。
述《韦贤传》第四十三。
高平师师，惟辟作威，图黜凶害，天子是毗。
博阳不伐，含弘光大，天诱其衷，庆流苗裔。
述《魏相丙吉传》第四十四。
占往知来，幽赞神明，苟非其人，道不虚行。
学微术昧，或见仿佛，疑殆匪阙，违众迕世，浅为尤海，深作敦害。
述《眭两夏侯京翼李传》第四十五。
广汉尹京，克聪克明；延寿作翊，既和且平。
矜能讦上，俱陷极刑。
翁归承风，帝扬厥声。
敞亦平平，文雅自赞；尊实赳赳，邦家之彦；章死非罪，士民所叹。
述《赵尹韩张两王传》第四十六。
宽饶正色，国之司直。
丰繄好刚，辅亦慕直。
皆陷狂狷，不典不式。
崇执言责，隆持官守。
宝曲定陵，并有立志。
述《盖诸葛刘郑毋将孙何传》第四十七。
长倩懙々，觌霍不举，遇宣乃拔，傅元作辅，不图不虑，见踬石、许。
述《萧望之传》第四十八。
子明光光，发迹西疆，列于御侮，厥子亦良。
述《冯奉世传》第四十九。
宣之四子，淮阳聪敏，舅氏蘧蒢，几陷大理。
楚孝恶疾，东平失轨，中山凶短，母归戎里。
元之二王，孙后大宗，昭而不穆，大命更登。
translation: 
The Marquis of Fuyang was solemn and respectful, and he knew a lot about "Poetry" and "Li".
His son Xuancheng did not take the title of his father, but was re-elected as prime minister.
The customization of the ancestral temple of the Han Dynasty was the result of Shusun Tong's plan. The reform began with Emperor Xiaoyuan, and various Confucian scholars changed the system.
This transformation has been extensively documented in important national documents.
Wrote the 42nd Biography of Wei Xian.
Marquis Gaoping has a way of identifying and assisting ministers. Only a ruler can wield authority and plan to eliminate evil, and a minister's job is only to assist.
Marquis Boyang never boasted about his achievements, he was broad-minded and bright-hearted, and was born with a peaceful nature, which was good for Qingze and his descendants.
Wrote the 44th Biography of Wei Xiang Bingji.
Verify the past and predict the future, even with the help of gods. If it is not a divination by a wise person, the gods will not be revealed.
The knowledge is shallow and the Taoism is not refined. Some people only see the general outline of things, do not know how to listen and doubt, and act contrary to the people and the world. Those who are superficial still regret their mistakes, and those who are deeply involved will suffer disaster.
The forty-fifth time he wrote "The Biography of Hou Jingyi and Li of Sui Liangxia".
Zhao Guanghan was appointed as Jing Zhaoyin, who was smart and discerning; Han Yanshou was appointed as Zuo Fengyi, who was peaceful in his affairs.
However, both of them boasted about their achievements and exposed the emperor's shortcomings, and were punished with death.
Yin Wenggui succeeded You Fufeng, and the emperor commended his achievements.
Zhang Chang was also good at governing, and he used elegance to help his governing skills; the king was respected for his martial arts and bravery, and he was a beautiful man in the country; Wang Zhang died for a crime, and the soldiers and the people sighed for it.
Compose the forty-sixth biography of the two kings Zhao, Yin, Han and Zhang.
Gai Kuanrao is solemn and solemn, and he is the upright official of the country who corrects lawbreakers.
Zhuge Feng only liked to be upright, and Liu Fu admired his direct advice.
Both are too rampant to be exemplary.
Zheng Chong adhered to the official position of admonishing with direct words, while Wu Jianglong maintained the official position of admonishing.
Sun Bao defeated the Marquis of Dingling, why did he decide to kill the slaves in his service?
Compose the forty-seventh biography of Zhuge, Liu, Zheng, Wu, and Sun He.
Xiao Changqian walked leisurely and comfortably, but was not recommended when he met Huo Guang. Only when he met Emperor Xuan did he be reused and became Emperor Yuan's mentor. However, because he did not think long-term, he was plotted and framed by powerful ministers Shi Xian and Xu Zhang.
Wrote the 48th "Biography of Xiao Wang".
Feng Zi was obviously powerful. He went on missions to the Western Regions and made great achievements. He was ranked among the heroes who resisted foreign aggression. Most of his sons were highly regarded and famous in the world.
Wrote the 49th "Biography of Feng Fengshi".
Among the four sons of Emperor Xuan, Liu Qin, the king of Huaiyang, was clever and clever. His uncle was a sycophant, which almost caused the king of Huaiyang to fall into a serious crime.
King Xiao of Chu was seriously ill, King Dongping violated the law, King Zhongshan was short-lived, and his mother returned to her hometown of Rongli.
Two of the sons of Emperor Yuan were crowned kings, and their grandchildren were succeeded by Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping. However, there was a father but no son, and the throne changed.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
述《宣元六王传》第五十。
乐安袖袖，古之文学，民具尔瞻，困于二司。
安昌货殖，朱云作娸。
博山忄享慎，受莽之疚。
述《匡张孔马传》第五十一。
乐昌笃实，不桡不诎，遘闵既多，是用废黜。
武阳殷勤，辅导副君，既忠且谋，飨兹旧勋。高武守王，因用济身。
述《王商史丹傅喜传》第五十二。
高阳文法，扬乡武略，政事之材，道德惟薄，位过厥任，鲜终其禄。
博之翰音，鼓妖先作。
述《薜宣朱博传》第五十三。
高陵修儒，任刑养威，用合时宜，器周世资。
义得其勇，如虎如貔，进不跬步，宗为鲸鲵。
述《翟方进传》第五十四。
统微政缺，灾眚屡发。
永陈厥咎，戒在三七。
邺指丁、傅，略窥占术。
述《谷永杜邺传》第五十五。
哀、平之恤，丁、傅、莽、贤。
武、嘉戚之，乃丧厥身。
高乐废黜，咸列贞臣。
述《何武王嘉师丹传》第五十六。
渊哉若人！实好斯文。
初拟相如，献赋黄门，辍而覃思，草《法》纂《玄》，斟酌《六经》，放《易》象《论》，潜于篇籍，以章厥身。
述《扬雄传》第五十七。
犷犷亡秦，灭我圣文，汉存其业，六学析分。
是综是理，是纲是纪，师徒弥散，著其终始，述《儒林传》第五十八。
谁毁谁誉，誉其有试。
translation: 
He wrote the fiftieth chapter of "The Biography of the Six Kings of Xuanyuan".
The Marquis of Le'an was rich in economics and had profound attainments in ancient Chinese classics. He was respected for his position and admired by the people. However, he was immoral during his reign and was impeached by Sili school captains Wang Zun and Wang Jun.
The Marquis of Anchang purchased more property, and Zhu Yun made a fool of himself in the court.
Bo Shanhou was kind and cautious, but his reputation was damaged because of his submission to Wang Mang.
Wrote Chapter 51 of "The Biography of Kuang Zhang and Kong Ma".
The Marquis of Lechang was loyal and honest, never surrendered or flinched, and was framed many times, so he was demoted and not reused.
The Marquis of Wuyang served the public diligently, tutored the prince, was loyal and resourceful, and advised Cheng Jing to succeed the emperor. He was rewarded with titles and towns for his contribution to the founding of the country.
Marquis Gao Wu kept his integrity, so he was able to avoid disaster. Wrote the fifty-second biography of Wang Shang Shi Dan Fu Xi.
Xue Xuan, the Marquis of Gaoyang, was familiar with the law, and Zhu Bo, the Marquis of Yangxiang, was full of martial arts and had the ability to handle government affairs. However, his moral character was shallow, his position was too high, he was incompetent, and he could not start well and finish well.
Zhu Bo's voice was loud and clear when he paid his respects, and the ominous drum sounded first.
Wrote the fifty-third chapter of "The Biography of Xue Xuan and Zhu Bo".
Zhai Fang, Marquis of Gaoling, studied Confucianism and used punishment to increase his authority. The Confucianism and punishment used were both appropriate for the time and his talents could be used by future generations.
Zhai Yi was brave by nature, like a tiger, and marched with his head held high. After the failure of the army, Wang Mang destroyed the Zhai family and exposed his clan members as harmful fish.
Wrote the fifty-fourth biography of Zhai Fangjin.
The Liu family lineage declined, the government was in ruins, and phenomena that foreshadowed disasters such as solar and lunar eclipses occurred many times.
Gu Yong stated the responsibility for the disaster and pointed out that we should be alert on the 210th anniversary of the founding of Han Dynasty.
Du Ye accused the two empress dowagers Ding and Fu of knowing a little about divination.
Writing the fifty-fifth "Biography of Gu Yong Du Ye".
Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping were worried about Ding and Empress Dowager Fu, as well as Wang Mang and Dong Xian.
He Wu and Wang Jia were so sad about it that they both lost their lives.
Gao Lehou Shidan resigned from office, and the three of them were listed as loyal ministers.
Compiled the fifty-sixth chapter of "The Biography of King He Wu Jiashi Dan".
How profound is the knowledge of this school! Rich in ritual, music and literary talent.
At first, he compared himself to Sima Xiangru and submitted poems to the government. Then he pondered deeply, drafted the "Dharma Statement" and wrote the "Tai Xuan Jing", referred to the "Six Classics", imitated the "Book of Changes", imitated the "Analects of Confucius", and concentrated on studying articles, thus becoming famous in the world.
Wrote the fifty-seventh biography of Yang Xiong.
Cruelty and tyranny led to the destruction of Qin and the destruction of the classics of saints. The Han Dynasty preserved the great achievements of saints and classified the Six Classics into different categories.
Analyze and study, clarify the program and disciplines, divide teachers and students into sects, and describe the development and changes. Wrote the fifty-eighth chapter of "The Scholars".
Who is blamed, who is praised, and if there is praise, it can be tried.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
泯泯群黎，化成良吏。
淑人君子，时同功异。
没世遗爱，民有余思。述《遁吏传》第五十九。
上替下陵，奸轨不胜，猛政横作，刑罚用兴。
曾是强圉，掊克为雄，报虐以威，殃亦凶终。述《酷吏传》第六十。
四民食力，罔有兼业，大不淫侈，细不匮乏，盖均无贫，遵王之法。
靡法靡度，民肆其诈，逼上并下，荒殖其货。
侯服玉食，败俗伤化。述《货殖传》第六十一。
开国承家，有法有制，家不臧甲，国不专杀。
矧乃齐民，作威作惠，如台不匡，礼法是谓！
述《游侠传》第六十二。
彼何人斯，窃此富贵！
营损高明，作戒后世。
述《佞幸传》第六十三。
于惟帝典，戎夷猾夏！周宣攘之，亦列《风》、《雅》。
宗幽既昏，淫于褒女，戎败我骊，遂亡酆鄗。
大汉初定，匈奴强盛，围我平城，寇侵边境。
至于孝武，爰赫斯怒，王师雷起，霆击朔野。
宣承其末，乃施洪德，震我威灵，五世来服。
王莽窃命，是倾是覆，备其变理，为世典式。
述《匈奴传》第六十四。
西南外夷，种别域殊。
南越尉佗，自王番禺。
攸攸外寓，闽越、东瓯。
爰洎朝鲜，燕之外区。
汉兴柔远，与尔剖符。
皆恃其岨，乍臣乍骄，孝武行师，诛灭海隅。
述《西南夷两越朝鲜传》第六十五。
西戎即序，夏后是表。
translation: 
Ignorant people are educated by good officials and become customary.
Good gentlemen have different achievements in the same era.
After his death, his kindness was still left in the world, causing the people to miss him infinitely. Wrote the fifty-ninth biography of Xunli.
The imperial court was in decline and slack, lower-level officials dominated, crimes were numerous, tyranny was rampant, and punishments were abused.
The way to oppress kind-hearted people, gather power for officials, and repay evil officials who abuse the people is to use force to kill them, so that the officials who harm the people will also end up in danger. Wrote the sixtieth chapter of "Biography of Cruel Officials".
Scholars, farmers, industrialists, and merchants earn their own living and do not engage in other industries. Large proprietors are not extravagant, and small proprietors are not poor. This is because the administration is balanced, poverty is not caused, and they can abide by the laws of the country.
If there are no laws and regulations, the people will cheat wantonly, force the superiors to invade the inferiors, and operate as much as they want.
The more he wears the clothes that a prince should wear, eats precious food, and violates morals. Wrote the 61st chapter of "Huo Zhi Zhuan".
Establish a country and establish a legal system. Do not hide weapons in your home, and do not kill indiscriminately in your country.
What's more, if the country doesn't care about the common people, doing things like power and blessing, and giving out favors and favors, how can we talk about etiquette and laws?
Wrote the sixty-second chapter of "The Legend of Knights".
Who are they to steal such wealth?
Harming noble and wise ministers is used to warn future generations.
Compiled the sixty-third chapter of "The Biography of Ning Xing".
"Shang Shu Shun Dian" warned that the Rong and Yi invaded China; King Xuan of Zhou repelled them, and their deeds were recorded in the "Book of Songs".
King You was mediocre and favored Si. The Rong people took the opportunity to kill King You at the foot of Mount Li, and then captured Fengjing and Hajing, thus destroying the Western Zhou Dynasty.
When the Han Dynasty was first established, the Xiongnu became powerful and besieged Gaozu in the city and invaded the borders.
When Emperor Wu arrived, he was furious. The king's army rose up like lightning and marched towards the northern Xiongnu.
Emperor Xuan inherited the rest of his power and repeatedly showed great kindness and virtue, showing the prowess and brilliance of the Han Dynasty. From Emperor Xuan to Emperor Ping, the Huns all came to surrender.
Wang Mang stole the imperial power and ruined the friendly relations between Hu and Han. He recorded the reasons for the incident and set a standard for future generations.
Wrote the sixty-fourth biography of the Xiongnu.
The Yi people in the remote southwest have different races and are unique to their regions.
Wei Tuo of the Nanyue tribe established himself as king in Panyu.
In the far southeast, there live the Minyue and Dongou tribes.
And to areas other than Korea and Yan.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, it pacified remote areas and formed alliances with distant ethnic groups to divide territories.
The various tribes faced high mountains and dangerous roads, and sometimes they were professing vassals, and sometimes they were arrogant and rebellious. Emperor Wu sent troops to conquer and annihilate the rebellious tribes in Haijiao.
The sixty-fifth chapter of "The Biography of Southwestern Barbarians and Two Vietnams and Korea" was written.
Even if the Xirong nation has order, it was the result of Xia Yu's teachings.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
周穆观兵，荒服不旅。
汉武劳神，图远甚勤。
王师驒々，致诛大宛。
姼々公主，乃女乌孙，使命乃通，条支之濒。
昭、宣承业，都护是立，总督城郭，三十有六，修奉朝贡，各以其职。
述《西域传》第六十六。
诡矣祸福，刑于外戚，高后首命，吕宗颠覆。
薄姬坠魏，宗文产德。
窦后违意，考盘于代。
王氏仄微，世武作嗣。
子夫既兴，扇而不终。
钩弋忧伤，孝昭以登。
上官幼尊，类祃厥宗。
史娣、王悼，身遇不祥，及宣飨国，二族后光。
恭哀产元，夭而不遂。
邛成乘序，履尊三世。
飞燕之妖，祸成厥妹。
丁、傅僣恣，自求凶害。
中山无辜，乃丧冯、卫。
惠张、景薄，武陈、宣霍，成许、哀傅，平王之作，事虽歆羡，非天所度。
怨咎若兹，如何不恪！
进《外戚传》第六十七。
元后娠母，月精见表。
遭成之逸，政自诸舅。
阳平作威，诛加卿宰。
成都煌煌，假我明光。
曲阳歊歊，亦朱其堂。
新都亢极，作乱以亡。
述《元后传》第六十八。
咨尔贼臣，篡汉滔天，行骄夏癸，虐烈商辛。
伪稽黄、虞，缪称典文，众怨神怒，恶复诛臻。
translation: 
King Mu of the Zhou Dynasty sent troops to the western frontier to conquer the tribes that could not report to the court.
Emperor Wu worked hard and was eager to conquer remote peoples.
The army sent by the emperor marched a long distance, and the men and horses were exhausted. They arrived in Dawan and killed their leader.
The beautiful princess married Wusun, and the mission went smoothly, and the envoys arrived at Tiaozhi coast.
Emperor Zhao and Emperor Xuan inherited the cause of their predecessors and established the Protectorate Office to oversee thirty-six cities in the Western Region. All countries came to repair and pay tribute, and each performed their duties.
Compiled the sixty-sixth chapter of Biography of the Western Regions.
Blessings and misfortunes always come together, and a typical example is that of relatives. Empress Gao was appointed queen for the first time, and the Lu family was destroyed.
Bo Ji fell into the Wei Kingdom and was favored by Emperor Wen.
Empress Dou failed to fulfill her wish when she returned to her hometown, so she became happy to represent the country and gave birth to Emperor Jing.
The Wang family rose to the rank of queen from the rank of wife, and her son Emperor Wu succeeded to the throne.
Although Wei Zifu has been favored, his favor cannot last forever.
Gou Yi's son was established as the prince but died in sorrow. Emperor Zhao died of maternal love and ascended to the throne.
Empress Shangguan gained the throne at a young age, but her family was exterminated for treason.
Shi Liangdi and Wang Dao were killed. By the time of Emperor Xuan, the two clans were granted titles and would be honored in later generations.
Congratulations to Queen Xu for giving birth to Emperor Yuan, but she was poisoned by Huo and her wish failed.
Queen Qiong Chengxu ascended the throne and experienced three generations of Emperor Xuan, Emperor Yuan and Emperor Cheng.
The beauty of the flying lady is charming, but the disaster comes from her sister.
The Second Empress Dowager Fu overstepped her authority and became tyrannical, bringing disaster upon herself.
King Xiao of Zhongshan was not guilty, but he lost the two queen mothers Feng and Wei.
Empress Hui Emperor Zhang, Empress Jing Emperor Bo, Emperor Wu Empress Chen, Emperor Xuan Empress Huo, Emperor Cheng Empress Xu, Empress Ai Fu, and Empress Ping Emperor. Although their rise was wonderful, it was not the will of God.
Complaining about right and wrong just backfires, how can it not be awesome!
Wrote the 60th dagger of "The Biography of Wai Qi".
When Empress Yuan was pregnant with her, her mother dreamed of moonlight entering her arms.
When Emperor Cheng was greedy for pleasure, all government affairs were controlled by his uncle's family.
Marquis Yang Hu was domineering and prosperous, and even killed ministers.
The Marquis of Chengdu was full of selfish desires and competed to borrow the Mingguang Palace of the Han family.
Marquis Quyang was very energetic, and he went beyond etiquette in decorating his house, even painting the steps with vermilion lacquer.
The new prince was so arrogant that he eventually destroyed himself by causing rebellion.
Wrote the sixty-eighth biography of Emperor Yuan.
The thief Wang Mang committed a heinous crime by usurping the throne of the Han Dynasty. He acted as arrogantly and indulgently as Xia Jie, and his tyranny was no different from that of Shang Zhou.
Pretending to restore the ancient system of the time of Huangdi and Shun, falsely calling it a classic article aroused people's resentment and made heaven angry. Those who commit heinous crimes must be punished.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
百王之极，究其奸昏。
述《叙传》第七十。
translation: 
Among the hundreds of kings, there is incomparable evil. Examine his evil deeds and darkness.
The seventieth chapter of the "Shu Zhuan" was written.


