Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 3]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
申屠刚鲍永子昱郅恽子寿申屠刚字巨卿，扶风茂陵人也。七世祖嘉，文帝时为丞相。刚质性方直，常慕史、汲黯之为人。
仕郡功曹。
平帝时，王莽专政，朝多猜忌，遂隔绝帝外家冯、卫二族，不得交宦，刚常疾之。
及举贤良方正，因对策曰：
臣闻王事失则神祇怨怨，奸邪乱正，故阴阳谬错，此天所以谴告王者，欲令失道之君，旷然觉悟，怀邪之臣，惧然自刻者也。今朝廷不考功校德，而虚纳毁誉，数下诏书，张设重法，抑断诽谤，禁割论议，罪之重者，乃至腰斩。
伤忠臣之情，挫直士之锐，殆乖建进善之旌，县敢谏之鼓，辟四门之路，明四目之义也。
臣闻成王幼少，周公摄政，听言不贤，均权市宠，无旧无新，唯仁是亲，动顺天地，举措不失。
然近则召公不悦，远则四国流言。
夫子母之性，天道至亲。
今圣主幼少，始免襁褓，即位以来，至亲分离，外戚杜隔，恩不得通。
且汉家之制，虽任英贤，犹援姻戚。亲疏相错，杜塞间隙，诚所以安宗庙，重社稷也。
今冯、卫无罪，久废不录，或处穷僻，不若民庶，诚非慈爱忠孝承上之意。
夫为人后者，自有正义，至尊至卑，其势不嫌，是以人无贤愚，莫不为怨，奸臣贼子，以之为便，不讳之变，诚难其虑。
今之保傅，非古之周公。
周公至圣，犹尚有累，何况事失其衷，不合天心者哉！
昔周公先遣伯禽守封于鲁，以义寒恩，宠不加后，故配天郊祀，三十余世。
霍光秉政，辅翼少主，修善进士，名为忠直，而尊崇其宗党，摧抑外戚，结贵据权，至坚至固，终没之后，受祸灭门。
方今师傅皆以伊、周之位，据贤保之任，以此思化，则功何不至？
translation: 
◆The legend of Shentu Gang is that Shentu Gang was named Juqing and was a native of Maoling, Fufeng County. The seventh generation ancestor Shen Tujia was the prime minister during the reign of Emperor Wen. Shentu was upright and upright, and often envied the conduct of Chief Shi Yu and Ji An.
He became an official of the county meritorious service.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, Wang Mang was in dictatorship, and there were many suspicions in the court. Wang Mang isolated the Feng clan of Emperor Ping's grandmother from the mother Wei clan, and was not allowed to go to Beijing to interact and serve as an official. Shentu Gang always resented this.
Later, when he was praised as a virtuous and upright man, he wrote a countermeasure, saying: If I hear that the government is wrong, the gods of heaven and earth will be angry, and the treacherous and evil will cause trouble, so the yin and yang are wrong.
This is why God condemns and warns the emperor, hoping to teach the unjust monarch to suddenly wake up and make those ministers with evil intentions fear and correct themselves. Nowadays, the imperial court does not examine merits or compare virtues, but instead accepts false slander or praise. It has issued several edicts and set up strict laws to suppress slander and prohibit discussion. Those who commit serious crimes may even be cut in half.
This dampens the friendship of loyal ministers and dampens the spirit of loyal and upright people. It is contrary to the purpose of establishing banners to offer good words, hanging bells and drums for daring to give advice, opening up channels for words from all directions, and clearly observing the four directions so that the feelings of subordinates can be conveyed to superiors.
I heard that when King Cheng was young, the Duke of Zhou acted as regent. He listened to the opinions of others, treated the virtuous and corporal, shared rights and interests equally, spread favor widely, regardless of old or new, treated everyone with kindness, love and closeness, acted in accordance with heaven and earth, and did not violate the rules.
However, if you are close, Duke Zhao is unhappy, and if you are far, there are rumors about Cai, Shang, and the four kingdoms.
The relationship between mother and child is a close relative in heaven.
Your Majesty is young now, only nine years old. Since he came to the throne, his close relatives have been separated, his relatives are separated from each other, and his kindness is not as good as that of his uncle's family.
Moreover, although the Han Dynasty system employed heroes and virtuous men, it was still necessary to use in-laws. In this way, kinship and distance were intertwined, and gaps could be closed. This was a method used to install ancestral temples and restructure the country.
Now the Feng and Wei clans are innocent and have been deposed for a long time without being hired, or they are far away in remote and remote areas and are not as good as the common people. This is not the intention of loving, loyal and filial servants to the emperor.
Those who are human beings will naturally have justice. No matter whether they are the most noble or the most humble, their power will not disapprove of each other. Therefore, people are not wise and foolish, and everyone will resent them. Traitors and traitors can act very conveniently, and it is difficult to predict changes that are not hidden.
The guardian who tutors the sons of the emperor today is not the Duke of Zhou in ancient times.
The Duke of Zhou is the most holy person, yet he is still involved, let alone some things that are out of his original intention and inconsistent with Heaven's will?
In the past, the Duke of Zhou first sent Bo Qin to the state of Lu to maintain the title, in order to sever the relationship between father and son, and to cut off the favor with loyalty, so that his respect and favor would not be extended to future generations. Therefore, Lu thought that Duke Zhou was a descendant of the great sage, and worshiped him in the suburbs, just like the emperor's gift, for more than thirty generations.
Huo Guang was responsible for the affairs of the government, assisted the young Emperor Zhao, cultivated good government, and promoted talents. On the surface, he was very loyal. However, he relied on his clan, suppressed his relatives, and made friends with powerful people to monopolize the government. After Huo Guang's death, his son rebelled against the Huo family and was exterminated.
Today's masters all use the power of Yi Yin and Zhou Gong to hold the great responsibility of being virtuous and protecting the country, and they use this to think about education. So what can't they achieve?
summary:
Shentu Gang, a native of Maoling, was an upright man who resented Wang Mang's isolation of Emperor Ping's maternal relatives. When recommended as a virtuous and upright man, he submitted a countermeasure criticizing the court for suppressing dissent and separating close relatives, arguing this violated the principles of good governance. He cited the examples of the Duke of Zhou and Huo Guang, warning that those with great power are often unsafe. He urged the emperor to welcome his grandmother and recall the Feng and Wei clans. Wang Mang had him dismissed from office. After Wang Mang usurped the throne, Shentu Gang fled. Later, when Wei Xiao considered betraying Han, Shentu Gang advised him to remain loyal to Emperor Guangwu, but Wei Xiao refused. In the seventh year of Jianwu, Shentu Gang was summoned. He again wrote to Wei Xiao, warning that isolation and refusal of advice lead to ruin, but Wei Xiao did not accept. Shentu Gang was appointed imperial censor and then ministerial order. He once stopped Emperor Guangwu from traveling by placing his head on the wheel. He repeatedly advised against the emperor's harsh treatment of officials and urged the appointment of virtuous guardians for the crown prince, but was not heeded. He was eventually released as the Pingyin Order, later recalled as Taizhong doctor, and died at home after resigning due to illness.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
鲍永字君长，上党屯留人也。
父宣，哀帝时任司隶校尉，为王莽所杀。
永少有志操，习欧阳《尚书》。
事后母至孝，妻尝于母前叱狗，而永即去之。
初为郡功曹。
莽以宣不附己，欲不其子孙。
都尉路平承望风旨，规欲害永。
太守苟谏拥护，召以为吏，常置府中，永因数为谏陈兴复汉室，剪灭篡逆之策。
谏每戒永曰： 君长几事不密，祸倚人门。
永感其言。
及谏卒，自送丧归扶风，路平遂收永弟升。
太守赵兴到，闻乃叹曰： 我受汉茅土，不能立节，而鲍宣死之，岂可害其子也！
敕县出升，复署永功曹。
时，有矫称侍中止传舍者，兴欲谒之。
永疑其诈，谏不听而出，兴遂驾往，永乃拔佩刀截马当匈，乃止，后数日，莽诏书果下捕矫称者，永由是知名。举秀才，不应。
更始二年征，再迁尚书仆射，行大将军事，持节将兵，安集河东、并州、朔部，得自置偏裨，辄行军法。
永至河东，因击青犊，大破之，更始封为中阳侯。
永虽为将率，而车服敝素，为道路所识。
时赤眉害更始，三辅道绝。
光武即位，遣谏议大夫储大伯，持节征永诣行在所。
永疑不从，乃收系大伯，遣使驰至长安。
既知更始已亡，乃发丧，出大伯等，封上将军列侯印绶，悉罢兵，但幅巾与诸将及同心客百余人诣河内。
帝见永，问曰： 卿众所在？
永离席叩头曰： 臣事更始，不能令全，诚惭以其众幸富贵，故悉罢之。
帝曰： 卿言大！
而意不悦。
时攻怀未拔，帝谓永曰： 我攻怀三日而兵不下，关东畏服御，可且将故人自往城下譬之。
即拜永谏议大夫。
至怀，乃说更始河内太守，于是开城而降。
帝大喜，赐永洛阳商里宅，固辞不受。
时，董宪裨将屯兵于鲁，侵害百姓，乃拜永为鲁郡太守。
永到，击讨，大破之，降者数千人。
唯别帅彭丰、虞休、皮常等各千余人，称 将军 ，不胀下。
顷之，孔子阙里无故荆棘自除，从讲堂至于里门。
永异之，谓府丞及鲁令曰： 方今危急而阙里自开，斯岂夫子欲令太守行礼，助吾诛无道邪？
乃会人众，修乡射之礼，请丰等共会观视，欲因此禽之。
丰等亦欲图永，乃持牛酒劳飨，而潜挟兵器。
永觉之，手格杀丰等，禽破党与。
帝嘉其略，封为关内侯，迁杨州牧。
时南土尚多寇暴，永以吏人痍伤之后，乃缓其衔辔，示诛强横而镇抚其余，百姓安之。
会遭母忧，去官，悉以财产与孤弟子。
建武十一年，征为司隶校尉。
帝叔父赵王良尊戚贵重，永以事劾良大不敬，由是朝廷肃然，莫不戒慎。
乃辟扶风鲍恢为都官从事，恢亦抗直不避强御。
帝常曰： 贵戚且宜敛手，以避二鲍。
其见惮如此。
永行县到霸陵，路经更始墓，引车入陌，从事谏止之。
永曰： 亲北面事人，宁有过墓不拜！虽以获罪，司隶所不避也。
translation: 
◆Bao Yongzhuan Bao Yong, courtesy name Junchang, was a native of Tunliu, Shangdang County.
His father, Bao Xuan, was the captain of Sili School at the time of Emperor Ai and was killed by Wang Mang.
When Bao Yong was young, he was ambitious and studied Ouyang's "Shang Shu".
He was very filial to his stepmother. His wife once scolded the dog in front of his stepmother, so Bao Yong divorced his wife immediately.
At first he was a county meritorious official.
Wang Mang thought that Bao Xuan would not join him and wanted to kill his descendants.
Duwei Luping followed Wang Mang's wishes and formulated a plan to kill Bao Yong.
The prefect Gou Jian protected him, called him an official, and allowed him to live in the mansion permanently. Therefore, Bao Yong repeatedly stated the strategy of reviving the Han Dynasty and cutting off the treason for Gou Jian.
Gou Jian repeatedly warned Bao Yong: If the ruler reveals the secret, the whole family will be killed.
Bao Yong was grateful for his persuasion.
After Gou Jian passed away, Bao Yong returned to Fufeng Luping to attend his funeral, so Bao Yong's younger brother Bao Sheng was put on trial.
When the new governor Zhao Xing arrived, he sighed after hearing these things: I accepted the grant from the Han Dynasty and could not establish a festival. Bao Xuan was killed, how could I frame his son?
The county magistrate was ordered to release Bao Sheng and restore Bao Yong to his position of meritorious service.
At that time, there was a person pretending to be Shizhong living in Chuanshe, and Zhao Xing wanted to pay him a visit.
Bao Yong suspected that he was lying and stopped Zhao Xing, but Zhao Xing refused to listen.
Zhao Xing drove there, and Bao Yong drew his sword and cut the horse in the chest before the carriage stopped. A few days later, Wang Mang issued an edict to search for those who pretended to be servants, and Bao Yong became famous. It is inappropriate to recommend him as a scholar. In the second year of Gengshi's reign, Bao Yong was recruited, and then moved to the post of Shangshu Pushe, acting as the general's military affairs. He commanded the troops with Fu Jie, and assembled the Hedong, Bingzhou, and Shuo tribes, and authorized him to appoint partial generals and exercise military law.
Bao Yong went to Hedong, led an army to attack Qingdu, and defeated him. He was granted the title of Marquis of Zhongyang.
Although Bao Yong was a general, his carriage and clothing were simple, and people on the road called him Bao Shangshu's soldiers and horses.
At this time, Chimei killed Gengshi, and the road to Sanfu was blocked.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he sent Uncle Chu, an official to advise him, and summoned Bao Yong to pay homage to him at his residence.
Bao Yongyou was suspicious of disobedience, so he imprisoned Uncle Chu and sent another envoy to Chang'an to inquire.
When he knew for sure that Gengshi was dead, he declared mourning, released Uncle Chu and others, and was awarded the title of general, Liehou Yinshou. He dismissed all the troops and arrived in Hanoi with the generals and more than a hundred fellow travelers without their heads.
The emperor saw Bao Yong and asked: "Where are your subordinates?"
Bao Yong left his seat and kowtowed and said: "I serve Gengshi, but I can't protect his safety. I am really ashamed to use my subordinates to invite wealth and honor, so they are all dismissed."
The emperor said: You are talking nonsense!
And feel unhappy inside.
At that time, Huai County could not be captured. The emperor said to Bao Yong: I have been attacking Huai County for three days but cannot capture it. Guandong fears and respects you. As an old friend, I can go to the city in person to inform him.
Then he worshiped Bao Yong as the admonishing doctor.
When Bao Yong arrived in Huai, he persuaded the governor of Gengshi Hanoi and surrendered to the city.
The emperor was overjoyed and rewarded Bao Yong with a residence in Shangshangli, Luoyang, but Bao Yong refused.
At this time, General Dong Xianpi stationed troops in Lu and invaded the people, so he worshiped Bao Yong as the governor of Lu County.
Bao Yong arrived, attacked and defeated them, and thousands of people surrendered.
But the other commanders, Peng Feng, Yu Xiu, and Pi Chang, each with more than a thousand men, claimed to be "generals" and refused to surrender.
Soon, the thorns in Confucius's palace were cleared for no reason, from the lecture hall to the inner gate.
Bao Yong felt strange and said to Fu Cheng and Lu Ling: "Now that the crisis is critical, the gate opens. Is this because Confucius wants me, the prefect, to salute and help me punish the unjust?"
So everyone gathered together to practice the ritual of local shooting. Please invite Peng Feng and others to watch and prepare to capture Peng Feng and others.
Peng Feng and others also wanted to murder Bao Yong, so they prepared cattle and wine for the feast, and secretly carried weapons.
Bao Yong found out and killed Peng Feng and others with his own hands, and captured his gang members.
The emperor praised his strategy, made him a Marquis of Guannei, and moved him to Yangzhou as a Mu.
At this time, there were still a lot of violent bandits in the southern land. After the officials and the people were injured, Bao Yong relaxed the law to control the movement of people. He issued notices only to punish the violent ones, and calmed and appeased the people who threatened them, so the people settled down.
When his mother passed away, he resigned and distributed all his property to his disciples.
In the 11th year of Jianwu's reign, he was appointed as Sili Xiaowei.
The emperor's uncle, King Liu Liang of Zhao, was a respected relative. Bao Yong's impeachment of Liu Liang was considered disrespectful, so the court was in awe of him and everyone was vigilant and cautious.
So Fufeng Bao Hui was recruited to serve as an official in the capital, but Hui resisted and did not avoid violence.
Emperor Chang said: Noble relatives should restrain themselves to avoid the second wave.
It's so terrifying.
Bao Yongxing County went to Baling, passing Gengshi Tomb, and drove to the Northeast Cemetery to persuade him not to go.
Bao Yong said: I once went to the north to serve Gengshi. How could I not not worship the tomb? Even though I was guilty of this, I did not avoid it.
summary:
Bao Yong, a native of Tunliu, was the son of Bao Xuan, who was killed by Wang Mang. He was filial, once divorcing his wife for scolding a dog in front of his stepmother. Wang Mang sought to kill Bao Yong, but the prefect Gou Jian protected him. Bao Yong advised Gou Jian on reviving the Han. After Gou Jian's death, Bao Yong's brother was arrested, but the new prefect Zhao Xing released him. Bao Yong later exposed an impostor. During Gengshi's reign, he became a general and defeated Qingdu. After Gengshi's death, he submitted to Guangwu, dismissing his troops out of shame for serving Gengshi. He persuaded the governor of Huai County to surrender. As governor of Lu County, he killed the rebel generals Peng Feng and others. He later served as Yangzhou Mu, relaxing laws to pacify the people. As Sili Xiaowei, he impeached the emperor's uncle, King Liu Liang of Zhao, for disrespect, causing the court to be in awe. He wept at Gengshi's tomb, which initially displeased the emperor but was defended by a minister. He was later demoted for speaking out and then served as Yanzhou Mu until his death. The historian commented that Bao Yong's loyalty to his old master allowed him to serve a new one, and that upright words are difficult for people to understand. Zhi Yun, a native of Runan, was a scholar who, during Wang Mang's reign, observed astronomical signs and predicted the Han would be restored. He advised a local official to follow this destiny but refused a minor post, citing historical precedents. He then wrote to Wang Mang, urging him to return the throne to the Liu family, citing heavenly warnings. Wang Mang imprisoned him, but he was released. Later, he served under General Fu Jun, advising him to stop looting tombs and mistreating corpses, which the general did. Zhi Yun resigned, ashamed of gaining office through military merit. He avenged his friend Dong Zizhang by killing his enemy and then turned himself in, but the magistrate refused to imprison him. He later served as a meritorious officer under Prefect Ouyang She. At a feast, he publicly denounced another official, Yao Yan, as corrupt, causing the prefect shame. After a period of conflict, Zhi Yun left the prefect's service. He later became a marquis and gatekeeper, once refusing to let Emperor Guangwu enter the city at night. He remonstrated with the emperor about hunting and later advised the crown prince after Empress Guo was deposed. He served as governor of Changsha, where he praised a filial son, and later as magistrate of Mang County before retiring to teach. He wrote eight books and died of illness.

