Chunk 0: 
original: 
韦粲江子一弟子四子五张嵊沈浚柳敬礼韦粲，字长蒨，车骑将军睿之孙，北徐州刺史放之子也。
有父风，好学仗气，身长八尺，容貌甚伟。
初为云麾晋安王行参军，俄署法曹，迁外兵参军，兼中兵。
时颍川庾仲容、吴郡张率，前辈知名，与粲同府，并忘年交好。
及王迁镇雍州，随转记室，兼中兵如故。
王立为皇太子，粲迁步兵校尉，入为东宫领直，丁父忧去职。
寻起为招远将军，复为领直。
服阕，袭爵永昌县侯，除安西湘东王谘议，累迁太子仆、左卫率，领直并如故。
粲以旧恩，任寄绸密，虽居职屡徙，常留宿卫，颇擅威名，诞倨，不为时辈所平。
右卫硃异尝于酒席厉色谓粲曰： 卿何得已作领军面向人！
中大同十一年，迁通直散骑常侍，未拜，出为持节、督衡州诸军事、安远将军、衡州刺史。
皇太子出饯新亭，执粲手曰： 与卿不为久别。
太清元年，粲至州。无几，便表解职。
二年，征为散骑常侍。
粲还至庐陵，闻侯景作逆，便简阅部下，得精卒五千，马百匹，倍道赴援。
translation: 
Wei Can, whose courtesy name is Changxi, is the grandson of Wei Rui, the cavalry general, and the son of Wei Gan, the governor of Northern Xuzhou.
Wei Can has the demeanor of his father, loves to learn, is willful, eight feet tall, and tall.
He first became an official and served as the king of Jin'an in Yunhui and joined the army. Soon he acted as Fa Cao and moved to join the army as a foreign soldier and concurrently as a Chinese soldier.
At that time, Ying! Yu Zhongrong and Wu Jun Zhang Shu were both well-known figures in the past. They were colleagues with Wei Can and had become close friends with each other.
The king of Jin'an moved to be the governor of Yongzhou, and Wei Can also followed the palace and was transferred to the record office, but his position as a military soldier remained unchanged.
King Jin'an was established as the crown prince, and Wei Can was moved to the rank of infantry captain. He entered the court and served as the leader of the East Palace. He resigned when his father died.
Soon he was reinstated as General Zhaoyuan. The army was appointed as the leader.
After the mourning period expired, he inherited the title of Marquis of Yongchang County and was appointed as a consultant to the king of Anxi and Xiangdong. He was repeatedly promoted to the prince's servant, led by Zuowei, and his position as leader remained unchanged.
Because Wei Can had an old friendship with the crown prince, he was often appointed to positions close to him. Although his position changed many times, he often stayed in the palace and served as a guard, which was quite prestigious. Moreover, Wei Can had an unruly and arrogant personality, so the celebrities at the time felt deeply unfair.
The right guard general Zhu Yi once said to Wei Can in a stern voice during a banquet: How can you put on the face of a leader and face others!
In the 11th year of Datong in Central China, Wei Can was moved to serve as a regular servant of Tongzhi Sanqi. Before he took office, he left the capital to serve as the governor, supervising the military affairs of Hengzhou, general Anyuan, and governor of Hengzhou.
The Crown Prince came out of the palace and was farewelling the boy. He took Wei Can's hand and said, "You and I won't be apart for a long time."
In the first year of Taiqing, not long after Wei Can arrived in Hengzhou, he petitioned to be dismissed.
In the second year, the imperial court recruited Wei Can as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
Wei Can returned to the capital and walked to Luling. When he heard about Hou Jing's rebellion, he selected 5,000 elite soldiers and 100 horses from his subordinates, and rushed to the capital day and night to rescue him.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
至豫章，奉命报云 贼已出横江 ，粲即就内史刘孝仪共谋之。
孝仪曰： 必期如此，当有别敕。岂可轻信单使，妄相惊动，或恐不然。
时孝仪置酒，粲怒，以杯抵地曰： 贼已渡江，便逼宫阙，水陆俱断，何暇有报；假令无敕，岂得自安？
韦粲今日何情饮酒！
即驰马出，部分将发，会江州刺史当阳公大心遣使要粲，粲乃驰往见大心曰： 上游蕃镇，江州去京最近，殿下情计，实宜在前；但中流任重，当须应接，不可阙镇。
今直且张声势，移镇湓城，遣偏将赐随，于事便足。
大心然之，遣中兵柳昕帅兵二千人随粲。
粲悉留家累于江州，以轻舸就路。
至南州，粲外弟司州刺史柳仲礼亦帅步骑万余人至横江，粲即送粮仗赡给之，并散私金帛以赏其战士。
先是，安北将军鄱阳王范亦自合肥遣西豫州刺史裴之高与其长子嗣，帅江西之众赴京师，屯于张公洲，待上流诸军至。
是时，之高遣船渡仲礼，与合军进屯王游苑。
粲建议推仲礼为大都督，报下流众军。
裴之高自以年位耻居其下，乃云： 柳节下是州将，何须我复鞭板？
translation: 
When they arrived in Yuzhang, a messenger reported: The rebels have arrived at Hengjiang. Wei Can immediately went to the internal historian Liu Xiaoyi to discuss countermeasures.
Liu Xiaoyi said: If this is really the case, there should be another order. How can one send an envoy credulously and act in panic? Maybe this is not the case.
At that time, Liu Xiaoyi was giving a banquet to entertain Wei Can. Wei Can became angry, threw the cup on the ground and said: The rebels have crossed the river and are about to invade the capital. All water and land routes have been cut off. Where will there be messengers to return the favor? If the order is not issued, can you feel at ease?
How can I, Wei Can, think about drinking now?
After saying that, he immediately rode out and deployed his troops to prepare for departure. Just as Xiao Daxin, the governor of Dangyang in Jiangzhou, sent an envoy to invite Wei Can, Wei Can rode to see Xiao Daxin and said: Among the vassal towns in the upper reaches of the Yangtze River, only Jiang maggot is the closest to the capital. Considering the situation of His Highness, it is really necessary to go to the rescue first; but the position in the middle reaches is important, and your task of garrisoning Jiangzhou is important. Others also need your support to rescue the capital. Wei Guo cannot be left unattended.
Now you just need to bluff, move troops to guard Huancheng, and then send a general to follow me, and the affair will be done.
Xiao Zuozhi thought he was right, so he sent Liu Xin, a middle soldier, to lead two thousand soldiers to follow Wei Can.
Wei Can left all his family members behind and set off in a light boat.
When they arrived in Nanzhou, Wei Can's cousin Liu Zhongli, the governor of Sizhou, also led more than 10,000 infantry and cavalry to Hengjiang. Wei Can immediately sent him food and weapons, and distributed his personal money and cloth to reward Liu Zhongli's soldiers.
Prior to this, Anbei general Poyang Wang Xiaofan also sent Pei Zhigao, the governor of Western Yuzhou, and his eldest son Pei Si from Hefei to lead the Jiangxi troops to the capital and stationed at Zhang Gongzhou, waiting for the arrival of reinforcements from upstream.
When he was dispatched, Pei Zhigao sent a boat to pick up Liu Zhongli's army from the Liao Dynasty, and joined him to garrison in Wangyouyuan.
Wei Can proposed that Liu Zhongli should be elected as the commander-in-chief and inform the armies downstream.
But Pei Zhigao thought that he was older and more respected than Liu Zhongli, so he said: "Liu Jiexia is already the governor of a state, why should I appoint him?"


Chunk 2: 
original: 
累日不决。
粲乃抗言于众曰： 今者同赴国难，义在除贼，所以推柳司州者，政以久捍边疆，先为侯景所惮；且士马精锐，无出其前。
若论位次，柳在粲下；语其年齿，亦少于粲，直以社稷之计，不得复论。
今日形势，贵在将和；若人心不同，大事去矣。
裴公朝之旧齿，年德已隆，岂应复挟私情，以沮大计。
粲请为诸君解释之。
乃单舸至之高营，切让之曰： 前诸将之议，豫州意所未同，即二宫危逼，猾寇滔天，臣子当戮力同心，岂可自相矛盾！
豫州必欲立异，锋镝便有所归。
之高垂泣曰： 吾荷国恩荣，自应帅先士卒，顾恨衰老，不能效命，企望柳使君共平凶逆，谓众议已从，无俟老夫耳。
若必有疑，当剖心相示。
于是诸将定议，仲礼方得进军。
translation: 
So we discussed all day long and could not make a decision.
Wei Can angrily said to the generals: Now we are going to the national crisis together with the purpose of wiping out the rebels. The reason I propose to recommend Liu Sizhou is because he has been guarding the border for a long time. Hou Jing has long been afraid of him. Moreover, Liu Sizhou has strong soldiers and horses, and no one can surpass him.
In terms of official position, he is below me, and in terms of age, he is younger than me. This is just because considering the fate of the country, we can no longer care about these things.
In the current situation, the most important thing is the harmony between the generals; if people's hearts are not in harmony, the country's affairs will be over.
Duke Pei is a well-respected veteran of the imperial court, and he is highly respected. How could he sabotage the rescue plan out of selfish motives?
Please allow me to remove this obstacle for you.
So Wei Can took a small boat to Pei Zhigao's military camp and sternly rebuked Pei Zhigao, saying: A few days ago, the generals recommended Liu Sizhou as the governor.
If you must have two minds, I will only fight you with a sword.
Pei Zhigao cried and said: I have been favored by the country, so I should naturally take the lead. I just hate that I am old and weak and cannot serve the country. I hope to work with Liu Shixing to eradicate the traitors. I think everyone's ideas have been implemented and there is no need to wait for me to make a decision.
If you must suspect that I have other ideas, I can show you my heart.
So the generals jointly made a decision, and Liu Zhongli was able to lead the troops.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
次新亭，贼列阵于中兴寺，相持至晚，各解归。
是夜，仲礼入粲营，部分众军，旦日将战，诸将各有据守，令粲顿青塘。
青塘当石头中路，粲虑栅垒未立，贼必争之，颇以为惮，谓仲礼曰： 下官才非御侮，直欲以身殉国。节下善量其宜，不可致有亏丧。
仲礼曰： 青塘立栅，迫近淮渚，欲以粮储船乘尽就泊之，此是大事，非兄不可。
若疑兵少，当更差军相助。
乃使直阁将军刘叔胤师助粲，帅所部水陆俱进。
时值昏雾，军人迷失道，比及青塘，夜已过半，垒栅至晓未合。
景登禅灵寺门阁，望粲营未立，便率锐卒来攻。
军副王长茂劝据栅待之，粲不从，令军主郑逸逆击之，命刘叔胤以水军截其后。
叔胤畏懦不敢进，逸遂败。
贼乘胜入营，左右牵粲避贼，粲不动，犹叱子弟力战，兵死略尽，遂见害，时年五十四。
粲子尼及三弟助、警、构、从弟昂皆战死，亲戚死者数百人。
贼传粲首阙下，以示城内，太宗闻之流涕曰： 社稷所寄，惟在韦公，如何不幸，先死行阵。
诏赠护军将军。
世祖平侯景，追谥曰忠贞，并追赠助、警、构及尼皆中书郎，昂员外散骑常侍。
粲长子臧，字君理。
translation: 
Shan Shan led his troops and was stationed in Xinting, while the rebels set up a battle formation at Zhongxing Temple. The two sides held a stalemate until night, and each of them withdrew their troops and returned to their camp.
On the night of Qiantian, Liu Zhongli came to the military camp of Huangsai to deploy his troops and prepare for the next day's battle. The generals each guarded one side. Liu Zhongli ordered Wei Can to garrison Qingtang.
Wei Can faced the middle of the Qingtang. Wei Can considered that the fence and fortress had not been built yet, and the rebels would definitely come to fight for it, so he was quite worried. He said to Liu Zhongli: I don't have the ability to resist foreign enemies, I just want to die for my country. I hope you will use your talents appropriately and avoid any losses due to improper employment.
Liu Zhongli said: "I am building a camp fence in Yishan, close to the entrance. I want all the grain storage vehicles and ships to dock there." This is a big deal, and it must be borne by you, brother.
If you are worried about the lack of troops, I can send more troops to help you.
So he sent General Liu Shuyin of Zhihe to lead his army to help Wei Ken. They led their troops to march together by land and water.
At that time, there was a heavy fog, and the soldiers lost their way. When they arrived at Qingtang, it was already past midnight, and the camp fence was not completed until dawn.
Hou Jing climbed to the attic of Chanling Temple and saw from a distance that the fence of Wei Can's fortress was not completed, so he led his elite troops to attack.
Army deputy Wang Changmao advised to hold on to the camp and wait for the enemy. Wei Can did not listen to his advice and ordered the army commander Zheng Yi to attack the enemy. He also ordered Liu Shuyin to use the navy to cut off the enemy's retreat.
Liu Shuyin was too timid and afraid to lead his troops forward, so Zheng Yi was defeated.
The rebels took advantage of the victory and rushed into the military camp. People around Wei Can pulled him away, but he remained motionless and loudly ordered his children to fight desperately. Almost all the soldiers were killed, and Wei Can was also killed. He was fifty-four years old at the time.
Wei Can's son Wei Ni and Wei Can's three younger brothers Wei Zhu, Wei Jing, Wei Gou, and cousin Wei Ang were all killed in the battle. Hundreds of his relatives died in the battle.
The rebels took Wei Can's head to the palace gate and showed it to the people in the palace. When Taizong learned about it, he cried and said: The safety of the country depends on Wei Gong. Why is it so unfortunate that he died in the battle first?
So Xia Shao gave Wei Can the posthumous title of general guarding the army.
After the emperor put down Hou Jing's rebellion, he posthumously awarded Wei Canmi the title of loyalty, Wei Zhu, Wei Jing, Wei Gou and Wei Ni as Zhongshu Lang, and Wei Ang as a member of the Foreign Sanqi Changshi.
Wei Zang, the eldest son of Wei Can, was given the courtesy name Junli.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
历官尚书三公郎、太子洗马、东宫领直。
侯景至，帅兵屯西华门。
城陷，奔江州，收旧部曲，据豫章，为其部下所害。
江子一，字元贞，济阳考城人，晋散骑常侍统之七世孙也。
父法成，天监中奉朝请。
子一少好学，有志操，以家贫阙养，因蔬食终身。
起家王国侍郎、朝请。
启求观书秘阁，高祖许之，有敕直华林省。
其姑夫右卫将军硃异，权要当朝，休下之日，宾客辐凑，子一未尝造门，其高洁如此。
稍迁尚书仪曹郎，出为遂昌、曲阿令，皆著美绩。
除通直散骑侍郎，出为戎昭将军、南津校尉。
弟子四，历尚书金部郎。大同初，迁右丞。
兄弟性并刚烈。
translation: 
Wei Zang once served as the Third Duke of Shangshu, the prince washed horses, and the palace leader.
When Hou Jing was besieging the capital, he led his troops to garrison Xihua Gate.
After the fall of Beijing, he fled to Jiangzhou, gathered his old troops, and guarded Yuzhang. He was later killed by his subordinates.
Jiangzi, whose name is Yuanzhen, was born in Kaocheng, Jiyang. He is the seventh generation descendant of Jiang Tong, a regular servant of Sanqi during the Jin Dynasty.
His father, Jiang Facheng, was appointed to the imperial court during the Tianjian period.
When Jiangzi was young, he loved to study, was ambitious and moral, but because his family was poor and his parents did not provide enough support, he became a vegetarian all his life.
He first took up an official position as the minister of the kingdom and was invited by the court.
He petitioned to go to the secret pavilion to read. Emperor Gaozu agreed and ordered Jiang Ziyi to be on duty in Hualin Province.
Jiang Ziyi's uncle, Youwei General Sai Yu, was a powerful figure in the dynasty. Whenever he went home on vacation, his house would be crowded with guests, but Jiang Ziyi never came to visit him. His conduct was so noble.
Later, Jiang Ziyi gradually moved to the post of Minister Caolang, and went to Beijing to serve as the magistrate of Suichang and Qu'a counties, all of which achieved good political performances.
Jiang Ziyi was appointed as the Minister of Tongzhi Sanqi. He left Beijing and served as General Rongzhao and Colonel Nanjin.
Jiang Ziyi's younger brother Jiang Zisi once served as Shangshu Jinbulang. In the early years of his reign, he moved to Youcheng.
Both brothers have strong personalities.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
子四自右丞上封事，极言得失，高祖甚善之，诏尚书详择施行焉。
左民郎沈炯、少府丞顾玙尝奏事不允，高祖厉色呵责之；子四乃趋前代炯等对，言甚激切，高祖怒呼缚之，子四据地不受，高祖怒亦止，乃释之。犹坐免职。
及侯景反，攻陷历阳，自横江将渡，子一帅舟师千余人，于下流欲邀之，其副董桃生家在江北，因与其党散走。
子一乃退还南洲，复收余众，步道赴京师。
贼亦寻至，子一启太宗曰： 贼围未合，犹可出荡，若营栅一固，无所用武。
请与其弟子四、子五帅所领百余人，开承明门挑贼。
许之。子一乃身先士卒，抽戈独进，群贼夹攻之，从者莫敢继。子四、子五见事急，相引赴贼，并见害。
translation: 
Jiang Wangpan, as You Cheng, presented the seal to the court and spoke freely about the court's gains and losses. Gaozu appreciated it very much and ordered the minister to carefully examine it and choose the good ones for implementation.
Zuo Minlang Shen Jiong and Shaofu Cheng Gu Qi once scolded them sternly because of improper performance. Jiang Zisi quickly stepped forward to answer for Shen Jiong and Gu Qi. His words were very fierce and forthright. Gaozu angrily called for people to tie him up. Jiang Zisi fell on the ground and refused to be bound. Gaozu's anger subsided and he asked people to let him go. However, he was still convicted and dismissed.
Hou Jing rebelled, captured Liyang, and was about to cross the Hengjiang River. Jiang Ziyi led more than a thousand naval troops to intercept Hou Jing downstream. His deputy general Dong Taosheng, who lived in the north of the Yangtze River, fled with his accomplices.
So as soon as Jiang Zi retreated to Nanzhou, he gathered the remaining troops and hurried to the capital on foot from the alley.
The rebels soon arrived in the capital. Jiang Ziyi reported to Taizong: The rebels' encirclement has not been closed yet. We can try to break out. If we wait for them to build all the fortresses, then we will have no use.
Jiang Ziyi requested that he and his brothers Jiang Zisi and Jiang Ziwu lead more than a hundred soldiers to open the Chengming Gate and challenge the rebels. The rebels agreed.
Jiang Zi took the lead and rushed into the enemy camp alone with his sword. The rebels attacked him, and the people behind him did not dare to rush in. Seeing that the situation was critical, Jiang Zisi and Jiang Ziwu followed them and rushed into the enemy camp. All three of them were killed.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
诏曰： 故戎昭将军、通直散骑侍郎、南津校尉江子一，前尚书右丞江子四，东宫直殿主帅子五，祸故有闻，良以矜恻，死事加等，抑惟旧章。
可赠子一给事黄门侍郎，子四中书侍郎，子五散骑侍郎。
侯景平，世祖又追赠子一侍中，谥义子；子四黄门侍郎，谥毅子；子五中书侍郎，谥烈子。
子一续《黄图》及班固 九品 ，并辞赋文笔数十篇，行于世。
张嵊，字四山，镇北将军稷之子也。
少方雅，有志操，能清言。
父临青州，为土民所害，嵊感家祸，终身蔬食布衣，手不执刀刃。
州举秀才。
起家秘书郎，累迁太子舍人、洗马、司徒左西掾、中书郎。
出为永阳内史，还除中军宣城王司马、散骑常侍。
又出为镇南湘东王长史、寻阳太守。
中大同元年，征为太府卿，俄迁吴兴太守。
太清二年，侯景围京城，嵊遣弟伊率郡兵数千人赴援。
translation: 
The emperor wrote to Shao Shu: The former general Rong Zhao, the minister of Tongzhi Sanqi, the Nanjin school captain Jiang Ziyi, the former minister Youcheng Jiang Zisi, and the commander-in-chief of the East Palace Zhidian Jiang Ziwu. I am deeply saddened by the news of their death. According to the original regulations, the awards and memorials for their sacrifices should be given a higher level.
Jiang Shang can be given posthumously as the Minister of Huangmen, Jiang Zisi as the Minister of Zhongshu, and Jiang Ziwu as the Minister of Sanqi.
After the Hou Jing Rebellion was settled, Shidan posthumously gave Jiang Ziyi the title of Shizhong and Mi's adopted son; Jiang Zisi's posthumous title of Huangmen Shilang and Mi's title Yizi; Jiang Ziwu's posthumous title of Zhongshu Shilang and Mi Mi's title Liezi.
Jiang Ziyi once continued to write "Huang Tu" and "Guang Jiupin", as well as dozens of poems, poems, rhymes and prose, all of which have been circulated in the world.
Zhang Sheng, named Sishan, was the son of Zhang Ji, the general of Zhenbei.
When Zhang Sheng was young, he behaved upright and elegantly, had ambition and integrity, and was able to talk about mysteries.
When his father was governing Qingzhou, he was killed by the local people. Zhang Zhu was so sad about the disaster at home that he ate vegetarian food and wore common clothes all his life, without holding a knife in his hand.
The state promoted him as a scholar.
Zhang Sheng first became an official and served as Secretary Lang. He was repeatedly promoted to Prince Sheren, Xima, Situ Zuoxi, and Zhongshu Lang.
He left the capital and served as the internal history of Yongyang. After returning to the capital, he was appointed as the Sima of Xuancheng King of the Chinese Army and the regular attendant of Sanqi.
Later, he went to the capital to serve as the chief historian of Zhennan Yersai and the prefect of Xunyang.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he was recruited and appointed as Taifu Qing, and soon moved to Wuxing Taishou.
In the second year of Taiqing, Hou Jing besieged the capital. Zhang Sheng sent his younger brother Zhang Yi to lead thousands of troops from the county to rescue him.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
三年，宫城陷，御史中丞沈浚违难东归。嵊往见而谓曰： 贼臣凭陵，社稷危耻，正是人臣效命之秋。今欲收集兵力，保据贵乡。
若天道无灵，忠节不展，虽复及死，诚亦无恨。
浚曰： 鄙郡虽小，仗义拒逆，谁敢不从！
固劝嵊举义。
于是收集士卒，缮筑城垒。
时邵陵王东奔至钱唐，闻之，遣板授嵊征东将军，加秩中二千石。
嵊曰： 朝廷危迫，天子蒙尘，今日何情，复受荣号。
留板而已。
贼行台刘神茂攻破义兴，遣使说嵊曰： 若早降附，当还以郡相处，复加爵赏。
嵊命斩其使，仍遣军主王雄等帅兵于鳢渎逆击之，破神茂，神茂退走。
translation: 
In the third year of the Taiqing Dynasty, the palace city was captured. Shen Jun, the censor Zhongcheng, fled eastward and returned to his hometown. Zhang Sheng went to see him and said: Now the rebels are bullying the lord, and the country is in danger and the king is humiliated. This is the time for the ministers to serve loyally. Now I want to gather troops to defend your hometown of Wuxing.
If God does not bless me and my wish to be loyal and loyal cannot come true, I will have no regrets even if I die because of it.
Xuanjun replied: Although our Wuxing County is small, you resist the rebels with justice. Who dares not to obey!
Xuan Peng firmly encouraged Ji Yan to organize volunteers to resist the rebels.
So Ji Crocodile gathered his soldiers and built a city wall and fortress.
At that time, King Shaoling fled eastward to Bilu. When he heard about the Japanese incident, he ordered Zhang Yan to be appointed General Zhengshu in the name of the royal family and was given the official street of Jiuqing.
Zhang Sheng said: The imperial court is in a critical situation and the emperor has suffered humiliation. How do I feel about accepting the title of Wei Guangrong now?
He just left the document conferring an officialship from the royal palace.
The traitor Liu Shenmao from Xingtai captured Yixing. He sent envoys to persuade Zhang Sheng, saying: If you surrender early, you will still be made the county guard, and you will be given official rewards.
Zhang Sheng ordered the envoy to be beheaded, and then sent the army leader Wang Xiong and others to lead his troops to meet Shen Mao at Yudu and defeated him. Shen Mao fled.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
侯景闻神茂败，乃遣其中军侯子鉴帅精兵二万人，助神茂以击嵊。嵊遣军主范智朗出郡西拒战，为神茂所败，退归。
贼骑乘胜焚栅，栅内众军皆土崩。
嵊乃释戎服，坐于听事，贼临之以刃，终不为屈。
乃执嵊以送景，景刑之于都市，子弟同遇害者十余人，时年六十二。
贼平，世祖追赠侍中、中卫将军、开府仪同三司。
谥曰忠贞子。
沈浚，字叔源，吴兴武康人。
祖宪，齐散骑常侍，齐史有传。
浚少博学，有才干，历山阴、吴、建康令，并有能名。
入为中书郎、尚书左丞。
侯景逼京城，迁御史中丞。
是时外援并至，侯景表请求和，诏许之。
既盟，景知城内疾疫，复怀奸计，迟疑不去。
数日，皇太子令浚诣景所，景曰： 即已向热，非复行时。
translation: 
Hou Jing heard that Shenmao had been defeated, so he sent his central army officer Hou Zijian to lead 20,000 elite troops to help Shenmao attack Zhang Sheng. Zhang Sheng sent his army leader Fan Zhilang to the west of the county to resist, but was defeated by Shenmao and then retreated.
The rebel cavalry took advantage of the victory and burned the camp fence, and the defenders inside the fence collapsed.
Zhang Sheng took off his military uniform and sat in the hall. The rebels threatened him with a knife, but he still refused to give in.
So the rebels tied him up and sent him to Hou Jing. Hou Jing killed him in the capital market, and more than ten of his disciples were killed together with him. Zhang Sheng was sixty-two years old when he died.
After Hou Jing's rebellion was settled, Shizu posthumously awarded him the titles of Shizhong, Zhongwei General, and Kaifu Yitong.
He was given the nickname Zhongzhenzi.
Shen Jun, courtesy name Shuyuan, was born in Wukang, Wuxing.
His grandfather Shen Xian was a regular servant of Sanqi during the Qi Dynasty. There is a biography of Shen Xian in the history of Qi.
Shen Jun was erudite and talented when he was young. He served successively as the magistrate of Shanyin, Wu, and Jiankang counties, and had a reputation for being able to handle affairs.
He went to Beijing and served as Zhongshu Lang and Shangshu Zuocheng.
When Hou Jing besieged the capital, he moved to the post of censor Zhongcheng.
At that time, reinforcements from all walks of life arrived near the capital, and Hou Jing petitioned to conclude an alliance, and the emperor agreed.
After the covenant was made, Qiang learned that a plague had broken out in the city, so he had treacherous intentions and delayed leaving.
Several days later, the Crown Prince ordered Shen Jun to go to Hou Jing's military camp. Hou Jing said: The weather is getting hotter. It's not the time to march. How can I leave with 100,000 troops?


Chunk 9: 
original: 
十万之众，何由可去，还欲立效朝廷，君可见为申闻。 浚曰： 将军此论，意在得城。
城内兵粮，尚支百日。将军储积内尽，国家援军外集，十万之众，将何所资？
而反设此言，欲胁朝廷邪？
景横刃于膝，真目叱之。
浚正色责景曰： 明公亲是人臣，举兵向阙，圣主申恩赦过，已共结盟，口血未干，而有翻背。
沈浚六十之年，且天子之使，死生有命，岂畏逆臣之刀乎！
不顾而出。
景曰： 是真司直也。
然密衔之。
及破张嵊，乃求浚以害之。
柳敬礼，开府仪同三司庆远之孙。
父津，太子詹事。
敬礼与兄仲礼，皆少以勇烈知名。
起家著作佐郎，稍迁扶风太守。
translation: 
I still want to serve the imperial court. You can apply for me. Shen Jun replied: The general's real intention in saying these words is to seize the palace city.
The troops and food in the city can still last for a hundred days. Your food reserves have been exhausted. The court's reinforcements are gathering outside. What will you use to feed one hundred thousand soldiers?
When you say these words, do you want to threaten the court?
Hou Jing put the knife across his knees and scolded Shen Jun with his eyes wide open.
Shen Jun sternly condemned Hou Jing and said: You are a minister of the imperial court, but you launched a mutiny and besieged the capital. The wise monarch has given grace to forgive your sins, and we have also concluded a covenant together. Now that the blood of the covenant has not been dried, you will regret it.
I am already sixty years old, and I am the envoy of the Emperor. I am determined to live or die by my fate. Am I afraid of the blade of a traitor like you?
After saying that, he went out without looking back.
Hou Jing said: This man is truly Sizhi who is loyal to the country!
Yet I still harbor a grudge against him.
After breaking through Zhang Sheng's camp, Hou Jing searched for Shen Jun and killed him.
Liu Jingli is the grandson of Liu Qingyuan, the third minister of Kaifu Yitong.
His father Liu Jin was appointed Prince Zhan Shi.
Liu Jingli and his elder brother Liu Zhongli were famous for their loyalty and bravery when they were young.
Liu Jingli was recruited from his family to serve as Zuo Lang, and gradually he was promoted to the governor of Fufeng.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
侯景渡江，敬礼率马步三千赴援。至都，据青溪埭，与景频战，恒先登陷陈，甚著威名。
台城没，敬礼与仲礼俱见于景，景遣仲礼经略上流，留敬礼为质，以为护军。
景饯仲礼于后渚，敬礼密谓仲礼曰： 景今来会，敬礼抱之，兄拔佩刀，便可斫杀，敬礼死亦无所恨。
仲礼壮其言，许之。
及酒数行，敬礼目仲礼，仲礼见备卫严，不敢动，计遂不果。
会景征晋熙，敬礼与南康王会理共谋袭其城，克期将发，建安侯萧贲知而告之，遂遇害。
史臣曰：若夫义重于生，前典垂诰，斯盖先哲之所贵也。
故孟子称：生者我所欲，义亦我所欲，二事必不可兼得，宁舍生而取义。
至如张嵊二三子之徒，捐躯殉节，赴死如归，英风劲气，笼罩今古，君子知梁代之有忠臣焉。
translation: 
When Hou Jing was crossing the river, Liu Jingli led 3,000 cavalry and infantry to rescue him. When he arrived near the capital, he defended Qingxidai and fought with Hou Jing many times. He often took the lead in charging into the city and gained far-reaching prestige.
After the palace city was captured, both Liu Jingli and Liu Zhongli went to see Hou Jing. Hou Jing sent Liu Zhongli to govern the upper reaches of the river, leaving Liu Jingli as a hostage and appointing him as a guard.
Hou Jing held a banquet for Liu Zhongli in Houzhu to see him off. Liu Jingli secretly said to Liu Zhongli: Hou Jing came to the banquet today. I hugged him tightly, so you pulled out your sword and killed him. I will die without regrets.
Liu Zhongli thought his words were very heroic and agreed to his request.
After drinking for a few rounds, Liu Jingli signaled Liu Zhongli with his eyes. Liu Zhongli saw that the surroundings were heavily guarded and did not dare to take action, so his plan failed.
Later, when Hou Jing was conquering King Xi of Jin Dynasty, Liu Jingli and Nankang King Xiao Huili discussed sending troops to attack the city where Hou Jing was guarding. They had agreed on a date to prepare for the uprising. Jian'an Marquis Xiao Bi knew about it and reported them, so Liu Jingli was killed.
Shi Chen said: Morality is more important than life, which is the admonition left by the ancient books. This is also the character valued by the sages.
Therefore, King Gen said, life is what I want to get, and justice is also what I want to get. If I cannot get both at the same time, I would rather sacrifice my life for righteousness.
People like Ji Cricket sacrificed their lives for their country and returned home even if they died. Their heroic spirit and unyielding integrity shine through the ages. People should know that there were loyal ministers in the Liang Dynasty!


