Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 2, 4, 9, 12]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
周后稷，名弃。
其母有邰氏女，曰姜原。
姜原为帝喾元妃。
姜原出野，见巨人迹，心忻然说，欲践之，践之而身动如孕者。
居期而生子，以为不祥，弃之隘巷，马牛过者皆辟不践；徙置之林中，適会山林多人，迁之；而弃渠中冰上，飞鸟以其翼覆荐之。
姜原以为神，遂收养长之。
初欲弃之，因名曰弃。
弃为兒时，屹如巨人之志。
其游戏，好种树麻、菽，麻、菽美。
及为成人，遂好耕农，相地之宜，宜穀者稼穑焉，民皆法则之。
帝尧闻之，举弃为农师，天下得其利，有功。
帝舜曰： 弃，黎民始饥，尔后稷播时百穀。
封弃於邰，号曰后稷，别姓姬氏。
后稷之兴，在陶唐、虞、夏之际，皆有令德。
后稷卒，子不窋立。
不窋末年，夏后氏政衰，去稷不务，不窋以失其官而饹戎狄之间。
不窋卒，子鞠立。
鞠卒，子公刘立。
公刘虽在戎狄之间，复脩后稷之业，务耕种，行地宜，自漆、沮度渭，取材用，行者有资，居者有畜积，民赖其庆。
百姓怀之，多徙而保归焉。
周道之兴自此始，故诗人歌乐思其德。
公刘卒，子庆节立，国於豳。
庆节卒，子皇仆立。
皇仆卒，子差弗立。
差弗卒，子毁隃立。
毁隃卒，子公非立。
公非卒，子高圉立。
高圉卒，子亚圉立。
亚圉卒，子公叔祖类立。
公叔祖类卒，子古公亶父立。
古公亶父复脩后稷、公刘之业，积德行义，国人皆戴之。
translation: 
Hou Ji, the ancestor of the Zhou Dynasty, was named Qi.
His mother was a woman of Tai family named Jiang Yuan.
Jiang Yuan was the emperor's concubine.
Jiang Yuan went out to the countryside and saw a giant footprint. He was so happy that he wanted to step on it. When he stepped on it, he felt his body vibrating as if he was pregnant.
When they were ten months old, they gave birth to a son. Jiang Yuan thought that the child was unlucky, so he threw him into a narrow alley, but horses and cows passed by him and avoided stepping on him, so he threw him in the woods. There were many people in the woods, so he moved to another place.
Jiang Yuan thought this was so magical, so he took him back and raised him as a human being.
Since I wanted to throw him away at first, I named him Abandoned.
When Qi was a child, he had the lofty ambitions of a great man.
When he was playing games, he liked to plant hemp and beans, and the hemp and beans he planted grew very luxuriantly.
When he grew up, he liked farming. He could observe the characteristics of the land and choose suitable grains to plant. The people followed his example.
When Emperor Yao heard about these things, he appointed Qi as a farmer to teach people how to grow crops. People all over the world benefited from this, and he made great contributions.
Emperor Shun said: "Sir, the people were suffering from hunger, thanks to you being the Houji to sow all kinds of grains."
Therefore, the enfeoffment was abandoned in Tai, known as Houji, and Ji was the surname.
Hou Ji is famous because during the Tao, Tang, Yu, and Xia generations, this family was very virtuous.
After Hou Ji died, his son Buchu succeeded to the throne.
In Buchu's later years, the Xia Hou family's state affairs declined, and they gave up the official post of Houji and no longer paid attention to agriculture. Buchu fled to the Rongdi area because he lost his official position.
After Bucheng died, his son Ju succeeded to the throne.
After Ju's death, his son Gong Liu succeeded to the throne.
Although Gong Liu was in the Rong and Di, he resumed the business of repairing Houji's foundation, engaged in farming, and planted crops according to the cultivation characteristics of the land. He crossed the Wei River from Qishui and Ju Rivers, felled and obtained timber for use, so that those who went out had travel expenses, those at home had savings, and the people's lives improved thanks to him.
The people were grateful and loved him, and many moved to join him.
The great prosperity of Zhou Dynasty's statecraft started from here, so poets composed poems and music to praise and commemorate his kindness.
After Gong Liu died, his son Qingjie succeeded to the throne and established the capital in Bin.
After Qingjie's death, his son Huangpu succeeded to the throne.
After the death of the imperial servant, his son Chafu succeeded to the throne.
After Chafu's death, his son Ruihe succeeded to the throne.
After the death of Ruihe, his son Gongfei succeeded to the throne.
After Gong Fei's death, his son Gao Yu succeeded to the throne.
After Gao Yu's death, his son Ya Yu succeeded to the throne.
After Yayu's death, his son Gongshu Zulei succeeded to the throne.
After the death of Gongshu Zulei, his son Gu Gongdanfu succeeded to the throne.
Gu Gongdanfu re-established the foundations of Houji and Gongliu, accumulated virtues, and spread benevolence and righteousness. The people in the capital all supported him.
summary:
Hou Ji, ancestor of the Zhou Dynasty, was named Qi. His mother Jiang Yuan, a concubine of the emperor, became pregnant after stepping on a giant footprint. She bore a son but tried to abandon him multiple times. Miraculously, animals protected him, so she raised him and named him "Abandoned." As a child, Qi showed great ambition, excelling at planting crops. When he grew up, he became skilled at farming, observing land characteristics to choose suitable grains. Emperor Yao appointed him as a farmer to teach agriculture, and Emperor Shun enfeoffed him in Tai, calling him Hou Ji, with Ji as his surname. After Hou Ji died, his son Buchu succeeded. During Buchu's later years, the Xia dynasty declined and abandoned agriculture. Buchu fled to the Rongdi region. His descendant Gong Liu revived Hou Ji's agricultural practices, crossing rivers to obtain timber, improving people's lives. Many people moved to join him, marking the beginning of Zhou's prosperity. Gong Liu's descendant Gu Gongdanfu further accumulated virtues and benevolence. When Rongdi tribes attacked, seeking land and people, Gu Gong refused to fight, saying he could not bear sacrificing people for his own sake. He moved with his relatives to the foot of Qishan Mountain, where many people followed him. He built cities, established towns, and created five official positions.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
薰育戎狄攻之，欲得财物，予之。
已复攻，欲得地与民。
民皆怒，欲战。
古公曰： 有民立君，将以利之。
今戎狄所为攻战，以吾地与民。
民之在我，与其在彼，何异。
民欲以我故战，杀人父子而君之，予不忍为。
乃与私属遂去豳，度漆、沮，逾梁山，止於岐下。
豳人举国扶老携弱，尽复归古公於岐下。
及他旁国闻古公仁，亦多归之。
於是古公乃贬戎狄之俗，而营筑城郭室屋，而邑别居之。
作五官有司。民皆歌乐之，颂其德。
古公有长子曰太伯，次曰虞仲。
太姜生少子季历，季历娶太任，皆贤妇人，生昌，有圣瑞。
古公曰： 我世当有兴者，其在昌乎？
长子太伯、虞仲知古公欲立季历以传昌，乃二人亡如荆蛮，文身断发，以让季历。
古公卒，季历立，是为公季。
公季脩古公遗道，笃於行义，诸侯顺之。
公季卒，子昌立，是为西伯。
西伯曰文王，遵后稷、公刘之业，则古公、公季之法，笃仁，敬老，慈少。
礼下贤者，日中不暇食以待士，士以此多归之。
伯夷、叔齐在孤竹，闻西伯善养老，盍往归之。
太颠、闳夭、散宜生、鬻子、辛甲大夫之徒皆往归之。
崇侯虎谮西伯於殷纣曰： 西伯积善累德，诸侯皆向之，将不利於帝。
帝纣乃囚西伯於羑里。
闳夭之徒患之。乃求有莘氏美女，骊戎之文马，有熊九驷，他奇怪物，因殷嬖臣费仲而献之纣。
纣大说，曰： 此一物足以释西伯，况其多乎！
乃赦西伯，赐之弓矢斧钺，使西伯得征伐。
曰： 谮西伯者，崇侯虎也。
西伯乃献洛西之地，以请纣去砲格之刑。
纣许之。
西伯阴行善，诸侯皆来决平。
於是虞、芮之人有狱不能决，乃如周。
入界，耕者皆让畔，民俗皆让长。
虞、芮之人未见西伯，皆惭，相谓曰： 吾所争，周人所耻，何往为，祇取辱耳。
遂还，俱让而去。
诸侯闻之，曰 西伯盖受命之君 。
明年，伐犬戎。
明年，伐密须。
translation: 
Xunyu and other Rongdi tribes came to attack them and wanted to plunder their property, so Gu Gong and Danfu gave it to them.
Soon after, the Rongdi tribe came to attack again, wanting to get the land and people.
The people were very angry and wanted to go out and fight.
Gu Gong said: The people support the monarch because they want him to seek benefits for everyone.
Now Rong and Di are coming to invade, with the purpose of wanting my land and people.
What difference does it make if the people follow me or follow them?
The people went to war because of me and relied on fathers, sons and brothers who sacrificed the people to be the monarch. I really couldn't bear to do this.
So Gu Gongdanfu and his relatives left Bin, crossed Qishui and Jushui, crossed Liangshan, and settled at the foot of Qishan.
And all the people in Bindi brought their old and young to the foot of Qishan Mountain, and all returned to Gu Gong's side.
Nearby countries heard that the ancient Duke was benevolent, and many people came to follow him.
So Gu Gong abandoned the customs of Rong and Di, built cities and houses, and set up towns for the people to settle down.
Five official offices were established: Situ, Sima, Sikong, Sushi, and Sikou. The people composed poems and music to praise him and praise his kindness.
The eldest son of Duke Gu was called Taibo, and the second son was called Yu Zhong.
Taijiang gave birth to a younger son, Ji Li, who married Tairen. Both Taijiang and Tairen were virtuous wives. Tairen gave birth to a prosperous son, which was a sign of sagehood.
Gu Gong said: My descendants will achieve great things, probably Chang, right?
The eldest son Taibo and Yu Zhong knew that Gu Gong wanted to establish Ji Li so that he could pass on to Chang in the future, so they fled to Jingman, got tattoos on their bodies, cut their hair short, and gave way to Ji Li.
After the death of Gu Gong, Ji Li succeeded to the throne and became Gong Ji.
Gong Ji practiced the way of governing the country left by the ancient Duke and resolutely implemented benevolence and righteousness, and the princes all obeyed him.
After Gong Ji died, his son Chang succeeded to the throne and became Xibo.
Xibo was called King Wen. He inherited the cause of Hou Ji and Gong Liu, followed the laws of Gu Gong and Gong Ji, practiced benevolence and righteousness, respected the elderly, and was kind to the young.
He treated the wise men with courtesy. In order to receive the wise men, he sometimes did not bother to eat at noon, so the scholars all attached themselves to him.
Boyi and Shuqi were in Guzhu country. They heard that Xibo was very respectful and took care of the elderly, so they went together to join Xibo.
Tai Dian, Hong Yao, San Yisheng, Huan Zi, Xin Jia and other officials also went to submit to him.
Chonghou Hu spoke ill of Xibo in front of King Zhou of Yin: Xibo has accumulated virtues and done good deeds, and all the princes have submitted to him, which will be detrimental to you.
So Yin Zhou imprisoned Xibo in Youli.
Hong Yao and others were very worried about Xi Bo, and tried their best to find beauties from the Xin family, colorful horses from the Lirong region, nine carriages from the Xiong Kingdom, and various other rare treasures, and presented them to King Zhou through Fei Zhongjin, a favored minister of the Yin Shang Dynasty.
King Zhou was very happy and said: "Anything in this is enough for me to free Xibo, not to mention there are so many other good things!"
So he pardoned Count Xi and gave him bows, arrows, axes and axes, giving him the right to conquer the neighboring princes.
King Zhou told Xibo: The person who framed Xibo was Chonghou Hu.
After Xibo returned home, he offered the land west of Luoshui and asked Zhou to abolish the criminal law of Paoluo.
Zhou agreed to him.
Xibo secretly did good deeds, and the princes came to ask him to judge right and wrong.
At that time, people from Yu and Rui had lawsuits that could not be adjudicated, so they went to Zhou.
They entered the realm of Zhou and saw that those who farmed fields gave way to each other, and the people regarded humility as a virtue.
Before the people of Yu and Rui saw Xibo, they felt ashamed and said to each other: "What we are fighting for is what the people of Zhou are ashamed of. Why are we going to do it? We are just bringing shame on ourselves."
So they returned and left with humility to each other.
When the princes heard about it, they all said: Xibo must be a monarch who has received orders from heaven.
In the second year, Xibo conquered Quanrong.
The next year, Mi Xu was conquered.
summary:
Gu Gong's eldest son Taibo and second son Yu Zhong fled to Jingman, giving way to their younger brother Ji Li, whose son Chang (King Wen) would achieve greatness. King Wen inherited the legacy of Hou Ji and Gong Liu, practicing benevolence, respecting elders, and treating wise men with courtesy. Many scholars and officials submitted to him. Chonghou Hu slandered him to King Zhou of Yin, who imprisoned him in Youli. Officials presented rare treasures to King Zhou, who freed King Wen and gave him the right to conquer neighboring princes. King Wen secretly did good deeds, and when people from Yu and Rui came to him with disputes, they saw the humility of Zhou's people and felt ashamed, resolving their conflicts peacefully.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
明年，败耆国。
殷之祖伊闻之，惧，以告帝纣。
纣曰： 不有天命乎？
是何能为！
明年，伐邘。
明年，伐崇侯虎。
而作丰邑，自岐下而徙都丰。
明年，西伯崩，太子发立，是为武王。
西伯盖即位五十年。
其囚羑里，盖益易之八卦为六十四卦。
诗人道西伯，盖受命之年称王而断虞芮之讼。
後十年而崩，谥为文王。
改法度，制正朔矣。
追尊古公为太王，公季为王季：盖王瑞自太王兴。
武王即位，太公望为师，周公旦为辅，召公、毕公之徒左右王，师脩文王绪业。
九年，武王上祭于毕。东观兵，至于盟津。
为文王木主，载以车，中军。
武王自称太子发，言奉文王以伐，不敢自专。
乃告司马、司徒、司空、诸节： 齐栗，信哉！
予无知，以先祖有德臣，小子受先功，毕立赏罚，以定其功。
遂兴师。
师尚父号曰： 总尔众庶，与尔舟楫，後至者斩。
武王渡河，中流，白鱼跃入王舟中，武王俯取以祭。
既渡，有火自上复于下，至于王屋，流为乌，其色赤，其声魄云。
是时，诸侯不期而会盟津者八百诸侯。
诸侯皆曰： 纣可伐矣。
武王曰： 女未知天命，未可也。
乃还师归。
居二年，闻纣昏乱暴虐滋甚，杀王子比干，囚箕子。
太师疵、少师彊抱其乐器而饹周。
於是武王遍告诸侯曰： 殷有重罪，不可以不毕伐。
乃遵文王，遂率戎车三百乘，虎贲三千人，甲士四万五千人，以东伐纣。
十一年十二月戊午，师毕渡盟津，诸侯咸会。
曰： 孳孳无怠！
translation: 
The next year, he defeated Qi.
When Zuyi of the Yin Dynasty heard about it, he was very frightened and reported the situation to King Zhou.
King Zhou said: Isn't it destiny to help me?
What can he do!
The next year, Xibo conquered Xin.
The next year, he conquered Chonghou Hu.
Fengyi was built and the capital was moved from Qixia to Feng.
The next year, Uncle Xi died, and Prince Fa ascended the throne, becoming King Wu.
Siebo reigned for about fifty years.
When he was imprisoned in Youli, he probably increased the eight hexagrams in "Yi" to sixty-four.
Judging from the praise of Count Xi by the author of "Poetry", it was probably in that year that Count Xi was appointed king and adjudicated the lawsuits between Yu and Rui.
He died ten years later, and his posthumous title was King Wen.
He once changed the legal system of Yin and formulated the calendar.
Zeng Zhui respected Gu Gong as the Taiwang, and Gongji as the Wangji: It probably means that the auspicious sign of the emperor began from the time of the Taiwang.
When King Wu came to the throne, Taigong Wang was appointed as Grand Master, Duke Zhou became assistant prime minister, and Duke Zhao and Duke Bi assisted King Wu and followed King Wen's legacy.
In the ninth year of King Wu's appointment, King Wu first offered sacrifices to King Wen in Bi, and then went to the east to hold a military parade and arrived at Mengjin.
Let King Wen's wooden master be carried on a cart and placed in the central army's tent.
King Wu claimed to be Prince Fa, indicating that he was conquering in the name of King Wen and did not dare to act arbitrarily.
He declared to Sima, Situ, Sikong and other officials who were ordered by the king to hold the talisman festival: Be careful and do what you say!
I am an ignorant person, but because my ancestors were virtuous, I inherited their achievements. Various reward and punishment systems have now been established to ensure that the achievements of ancestors are completed.
So he sent troops.
Master Shi Shangfu ordered: Gather your men and take advantage of the oars. Anyone who is late will be killed.
King Wu crossed the Yellow River, and when the boat reached the middle of the river, a white fish jumped into King Wu's boat. King Wu leaned over and picked it up for sacrifice.
After crossing the river, a ball of fire fell from the sky and landed on King Wu's roof. It solidified into the shape of a crow, was red in color, and made a soulful cry.
At that time, eight hundred princes came to Mengjin to form an alliance.
The princes all said: Zhou can be defeated.
King Wu said: You don't understand the destiny of heaven, not yet.
So he led the army back.
Two years later, I heard that Zhou was more chaotic and violent than before, so he killed Prince Bigan and imprisoned Jizi.
Tai Shizhen and Shao Shiqiang took their musical instruments and fled to the state of Zhou.
At this time, King Wu announced to all the princes: King Yin has committed serious crimes and must work together to defeat him!
So he followed King Wen's decree and led 300 chariots, 3,000 warriors, and 45,000 armored warriors to march eastward to defeat Zhou.
On the Wuwu day of the twelfth month of the eleventh year, all the troops crossed Mengjin, and all the princes came to join them.
King Wu said: "You must be diligent and don't slack off!"
summary:
King Wen conquered several states and moved the capital to Feng. After his death, his son King Wu ascended. In the ninth year of his reign, King Wu marched eastward to Mengjin, where eight hundred princes formed an alliance. Two years later, hearing of Yin Zhou's increasing tyranny, King Wu led 300 chariots, 3,000 warriors, and 45,000 armored soldiers eastward. At Muye, he swore an oath condemning King Zhou for listening to women, abandoning ancestors, and oppressing the people. Although King Zhou's army numbered 700,000, they had no will to fight and turned their weapons against him. King Zhou fled to the Deer Platform and burned himself to death. King Wu shot arrows at his corpse and beheaded him.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
武王至商国，商国百姓咸待於郊。
於是武王使群臣告语商百姓曰： 上天降休！
商人皆再拜稽首，武王亦答拜。
遂入，至纣死所。
武王自射之，三发而后下车，以轻剑击之，以黄钺斩纣头，县大白之旗。
已而至纣之嬖妾二女，二女皆经自杀。
武王又射三发，击以剑，斩以玄钺，县其头小白之旗。
武王已乃出复军。
其明日，除道，脩社及商纣宫。
及期，百夫荷罕旗以先驱。
武王弟叔振铎奉陈常车，周公旦把大钺，毕公把小钺，以夹武王。
散宜生、太颠、闳夭皆执剑以卫武王。
既入，立于社南大卒之左，右毕从。
毛叔郑奉明水，卫康叔封布兹，召公奭赞采，师尚父牵牲。
尹佚筴祝曰： 殷之末孙季纣，殄废先王明德，侮蔑神祇不祀，昏暴商邑百姓，其章显闻于天皇上帝。
於是武王再拜稽首，曰： 膺更大命，革殷，受天明命。
武王又再拜稽首，乃出。
封商纣子禄父殷之馀民。
武王为殷初定未集，乃使其弟管叔鲜、蔡叔度相禄父治殷。
已而命召公释箕子之囚。
命毕公释百姓之囚，表商容之闾。
命南宫括散鹿台之财，发钜桥之粟，以振贫弱萌隶。
命南宫括、史佚展九鼎保玉。
命闳夭封比干之墓。
命宗祝享祠于军。
乃罢兵西归。
行狩，记政事，作武成。
封诸侯，班赐宗彝，作分殷之器物。
武王追思先圣王，乃襃封神农之後於焦，黄帝之後於祝，帝尧之後於蓟，帝舜之後於陈，大禹之後於杞。
於是封功臣谋士，而师尚父为首封。
封尚父於营丘，曰齐。
封其弟周公旦於曲阜，曰鲁。
封召公奭於燕。
封弟叔鲜於管，弟叔度於蔡。
馀各以次受封。
武王徵九牧之君，登豳之阜，以望商邑。
translation: 
When King Wu came to the capital of Shang, the people in the city were waiting to welcome him on the outskirts of the city.
So King Wu sent his ministers to tell the people of Shang: God will bless everyone!
The people of Shangdu all kowtowed to King Wu and thanked him, and King Wu also bowed and thanked him respectfully.
So King Wu entered the city and found the place where Zhou burned himself.
King Wu personally fired arrows at Zhou's corpse, shot three arrows and then stepped off the chariot. He stabbed Zhou's corpse with a light Lu sword, chopped off Zhou's head with a yellow axe, and hung it on the big white flag.
Then he went to Zhou's two concubines and found that both of them had hanged themselves.
King Wu shot three more arrows at them, stabbed them with his sword, chopped off their heads with a black axe, and hung their heads on small white flags.
After doing all this, King Wu left the city and returned to the army.
The next day, King Wu ordered people to clear the roads and repair the temples and palaces of Shang Zhou.
On the appointed day, a hundred soldiers walked in front carrying Han flags with streamers.
King Wu's younger brother Shu Zhenduobu escorted the chariot and lined up to drive the chariot. Zhou Gongdan held a big ax and Bi Gong held a small ax, standing on both sides of King Wu.
San Yisheng, Tai Dian, and Hong Yao all held swords to guard King Wu.
King Wu entered the city and stood to the left of the general in the south of the temple. The ministers on the left and right followed him.
Mao Shuzheng held the dew collected on the moonlit night in his hands, Wei Kangshufeng spread out the straw mat, Zhao Gongxi helped to get the colorful silk, and Shi Shangfu led the sacrificial animal.
Yin Yi read aloud the sacrificial inscription on the bamboo slips and said: The last descendant of Yin, Ji Zhou, abandoned the virtues of the previous king, despised the gods, refused to perform sacrifices, and treated the people in the mall with confusion and cruelty. These things were clearly shown before the Emperor of Heaven.
So King Wu paid homage to the chief inspector again and said: I accept the destiny of God to eradicate the bad government of the Yin Dynasty and accept the bright destiny from heaven.
King Wu paid homage to Jishou again before leaving the city.
King Wu granted the remaining people of Yin to Lu Fu, the son of Shang Zhou.
King Wu sent his younger brothers Guan Shuxian and Cai Shudu to assist Lu's father in governing Yin because the world had just settled down and was not yet peaceful and harmonious.
Then he ordered Duke Zhao to release Jizi from prison.
Bi Gong was ordered to release the imprisoned people from prison and commend the people in Shangronglu Lane.
Nangong Kuo was ordered to distribute the money gathered in Lutai and the food in Juqiao to help the poor savages and untouchables.
Nangong Kuo and Shi Yi were ordered to remove the Jiuding and Baoyu belonging to the Yin people.
Hongyao was ordered to build soil and repair Bigan's tomb.
Zongzhu was ordered to offer sacrifices to the fallen soldiers in the army.
Then withdrew troops back to the west.
Along the way, King Wu visited various vassal states, recorded political affairs, and wrote the "Wucheng" chapter, announcing the achievement of Wu's victory over Yin.
He divided the feudal princes and rewarded them with the sacrificial vessels of the Yin ancestral temple. He wrote the chapter "Dividing the Vessels of Yin" to record his orders and the vessels obtained by the feudal princes.
King Wu recalled the ancient saint kings, so he honored the descendants of Shennong in Jiao, the descendants of Yellow Emperor in Zhu, the descendants of Emperor Yao in Ji, the descendants of Emperor Shun in Chen, and the descendants of Dayu in Qi.
Then he was awarded the title of hero and counselor, and Master Shangfu was the first one to be awarded the title.
King Wu granted his father the title of Qi in Yingqiu.
His younger brother Tong Gongdan was granted the title of Qufu, and his country was named Lu.
He was granted the title of Duke Zhao and died in Yan.
His younger brother Shu Xian was granted the title of Guan, and his younger brother was granted the title of Du in Cai.
Others were also sealed in turn.
King Wu summoned the chief officials of Jiuzhou, climbed to the high ground of Bin, and looked at the capital of Shang in the distance.
summary:
After conquering Yin, King Wu released prisoners, distributed wealth to the poor, repaired Bigan's tomb, and divided feudal territories. He honored descendants of ancient sage kings and granted lands to his brothers and officials. King Wu could not sleep at night, worrying about stabilizing the kingdom. He planned to build Zhou city in Luoyi. Two years after defeating Yin, King Wu fell ill and died. His young son King Cheng ascended, with Duke Zhou acting as regent. Guan Shu and Cai Shu rebelled with Wu Geng, but Duke Zhou suppressed the rebellion, killed Wu Geng and Guan Shu, and exiled Cai Shu.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
夫利，百物之所生也，天地之所载也，而有专之，其害多矣。天地百物皆将取焉，何可专也？
所怒甚多，不备大难。
以是教王，王其能久乎？
夫王人者，将导利而布之上下者也。
使神人百物无不得极，犹日怵惕惧怨之来也。
故颂曰 思文后稷，克配彼天，立我蒸民，莫匪尔极 。大雅曰 陈锡载周 。
是不布利而惧难乎，故能载周以至于今。
今王学专利，其可乎？
匹夫专利，犹谓之盗，王而行之，其归鲜矣。
荣公若用，周必败也。
厉王不听，卒以荣公为卿士，用事。
王行暴虐侈傲，国人谤王。
召公谏曰： 民不堪命矣。
王怒，得卫巫，使监谤者，以告则杀之。
其谤鲜矣，诸侯不朝。
三十四年，王益严，国人莫敢言，道路以目。厉王喜，告召公曰： 吾能弭谤矣，乃不敢言。
召公曰： 是鄣之也。
防民之口，甚於防水。
水壅而溃，伤人必多，民亦如之。
是故为水者决之使导，为民者宣之使言。
故天子听政，使公卿至於列士献诗，瞽献曲，史献书，师箴，瞍赋，矇诵，百工谏，庶人传语，近臣尽规，亲戚补察，瞽史教诲，耆艾脩之，而后王斟酌焉，是以事行而不悖。
民之有口也，犹土之有山川也，财用於是乎出：犹其有原隰衍沃也，衣食於是乎生。
口之宣言也，善败於是乎兴。
行善而备败，所以产财用衣食者也。
夫民虑之於心而宣之於口，成而行之。
若壅其口，其与能几何？ 王不听。
於是国莫敢出言，三年，乃相与畔，袭厉王。
translation: 
Property is the product of all things in the world. If you want to monopolize it, it will do too many harms. Everything in heaven and earth is for everyone to take, how can it be monopolized?
He offended many people, but did not prepare for disaster.
If you use these to teach the king, will the king be able to maintain peace and stability for a long time?
A person who calls himself a king should develop financial resources and extend his benefits everywhere.
Although God, man, and all things are given their proper place, they are still on tenterhooks every day, fearing to cause dissatisfaction.
Therefore, "Ode" says: "Remembering the ancestor Hou Ji, who can be as virtuous as heaven and stabilize my numerous people, is not inconsistent with its principles." "Daya" says: Give generously and become my Zhou state.
Isn’t this just giving away money and benefit while fearing disaster? Therefore, it can become my Zhou Dynasty and continues to this day.
Now what Wang is studying is to monopolize financial profits. How can this be allowed?
If an ordinary person monopolizes wealth and profits, it can be called "stealing". If a king does this, there will be very few people willing to join him.
If Duke Rongyi was reused, the Zhou Dynasty would definitely decline.
King Li refused to listen, and finally appointed Rongyi Gong as a minister and asked him to preside over national affairs.
King Li was tyrannical, extravagant and arrogant, and the people of the country openly discussed his faults.
Duke Zhao remonstrated: The people can no longer stand your decree.
King Li was furious and found a sorcerer who was defending the country and sent him to monitor those who criticized the king.
Anyone reported to have committed this crime will be killed. In this way, the criticism was reduced, and the princes no longer came to see him.
In the thirty-fourth year, King Li became even more strict. No one in the country dared to speak anymore, and they could only exchange glances when meeting on the road. King Li was very proud and told Duke Zhao: I can quell people's criticism so that they dare not even speak.
Duke Zhao said: "This is because you have blocked their mouths."
Blocking people's mouths is more dangerous than blocking water.
If the water is blocked, the embankments will burst and flood, which will definitely hurt a lot of people, including the people.
Therefore, those who manage water must channelize the water, and those who manage the people must let them speak freely.
Therefore, in order to understand the situation, the emperor asked everyone from the ministers to the nobles to contribute poems, blind musicians to present music, historians to present books, masters to give instructions, blind people without eyes to narrate, blind people with eyes to recite, and all craftsmen to Let the common people talk in the streets, let the ministers admonish, let the relatives correct mistakes, let the blind musicians and historians teach, let the old people admonish, and then let the emperor consider it, so that political affairs can be carried out without violating reason.
The people have mouths, just like the land has mountains and rivers, which are the source of wealth, and just like the land has plains and fertile fields, which are the source of food and clothing.
Let people speak freely, and good and bad things can be reflected.
Doing good deeds and guarding against bad deeds is the true source of wealth, food and clothing.
The people consider it in their hearts and speak it out with their mouths, and then do it after the matter is decided.
How can it last long if their mouths are blocked? The king refused to listen.
Therefore, no one in the country dared to speak. Three years later, they rebelled and attacked King Li.
summary:
King Cheng and King Kang's reigns saw peace for over forty years without using punishments. The Zhou royal family declined during King Zhao's reign. King Mu, who ascended at age fifty, restored order but foolishly attacked the Quanrong, causing distant states to stop paying tribute. King Li was greedy and tyrannical, suppressing criticism by killing those who spoke out. Duke Zhao warned him that blocking people's mouths was more dangerous than blocking water, but King Li refused to listen. After three years, the people rebelled and King Li fled. The country was governed by two dukes during the Republic period.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
石父为人佞巧善谀好利，王用之。
又废申后，去太子也。
申侯怒，与缯、西夷犬戎攻幽王。
幽王举烽火徵兵，兵莫至。
遂杀幽王骊山下，虏襃姒，尽取周赂而去。
於是诸侯乃即申侯而共立故幽王太子宜臼，是为平王，以奉周祀。
平王立，东迁于雒邑，辟戎寇。
平王之时，周室衰微，诸侯彊并弱，齐、楚、秦、晋始大，政由方伯。
四十九年，鲁隐公即位。
五十一年，平王崩，太子洩父蚤死，立其子林，是为桓王。
桓王，平王孙也。
桓王三年，郑庄公朝，桓王不礼。
五年，郑怨，与鲁易许田。
许田，天子之用事太山田也。
八年，鲁杀隐公，立桓公。
十三年，伐郑，郑射伤桓王，桓王去归。
二十三年，桓王崩，子庄王佗立。
庄王四年，周公黑肩欲杀庄王而立王子克。
辛伯告王，王杀周公。王子克饹燕。
十五年，庄王崩，子釐王胡齐立。
釐王三年，齐桓公始霸。
五年，釐王崩，子惠王阆立。
惠王二年。初，庄王嬖姬姚，生子穨，穨有宠。
及惠王即位，夺其大臣园以为囿，故大夫边伯等五人作乱，谋召燕、卫师，伐惠王。
惠王饹温，已居郑之栎。
立釐王弟穨为王。
乐及遍舞，郑、虢君怒。
四年，郑与虢君伐杀王穨，复入惠王。
惠王十年，赐齐桓公为伯。
二十五年，惠王崩，子襄王郑立。
襄王母蚤死，後母曰惠后。
惠后生叔带，有宠於惠王，襄王畏之。
三年，叔带与戎、翟谋伐襄王，襄王欲诛叔带，叔带饹齐。
齐桓公使管仲平戎于周，使隰朋平戎于晋。
translation: 
Guo Shi's father was a eloquent man who liked flattery and was greedy for wealth, but King You put him in high regard.
In addition, he deposed Empress Shen and removed the prince.
Marquis Shen was very angry and joined forces with Zhen and Quan Rong, who belonged to Xiyi, to attack King You.
King You raised beacon fire to recruit the armies of the princes, but none of them came.
Marquis Shen killed King You at the foot of Mount Li, captured Bao Si, and took away all Zhou's treasures before leaving.
At that time, all the princes came to Shenhou to jointly establish Yijiu, the prince of the former Youwang, as Pingwang, in order to maintain the Zhou Dynasty's sacrificial tradition.
King Ping ascended the throne and moved the capital east to Luoyi to avoid the invaders.
During the reign of King Ping, the Zhou royal family declined, and powerful states annexed weak ones. Qi, Chu, Qin, and Jin began to become powerful, and political orders often came from the hegemonic monarch.
In the forty-ninth year, Duke Yin of Lu came to the throne.
In the fifty-first year, King Ping passed away, and the prince's father died early, so he made his son Lin the king, who was King Huan.
King Huan is the grandson of King Ping.
In the third year of King Huan's reign, Duke Zhuang of Zheng came to court, but King Huan did not give him any courtesy.
In the fifth year, Zheng sent Wan to exchange Xu Tian with Lu.
Xutian is the land used by the emperor to worship Mount Tai.
In the eighth year, the state of Lu killed Duke Yin and established Duke Huan.
In the thirteenth year, when Zheng was attacked, Zheng shot and wounded King Huan, and King Huan fled back.
In the twenty-third year, King Huan died and his son, King Zhuang Tuo, ascended the throne.
In the fourth year of King Zhuang's reign, Duke Zhou Heijian wanted to kill King Zhuang and support Prince Ke.
Xin Bo reported the news to King Zhuang, who killed Duke Zhou, and Prince Ke fled to Yan.
In the fifteenth year, King Zhuang died, and his son King Li, Hu Qi, came to the throne.
In the third year of King Li's reign, Duke Huan of Qi began to dominate.
In the fifth year, King Li died and his son, King Hui Lang, came to the throne.
In the second year of King Hui's reign, King Zhuang's favorite concubine, Yao Shi, gave birth to a son named Dai, who was favored by him.
When King Hui came to the throne, King Hui seized the gardens of his ministers and used them as his own hunting grounds. Therefore, Bian Bo, the official, and five other people made a rebellion and planned to summon the troops of Yan and Wei to attack King Hui.
King Hui fled to Wen, and soon lived in Yue, Zheng State.
They made King Li's younger brother Dai king.
A full set of dance music was played. The kings of Zheng and Guo were very angry.
Four years later, the kings of Zheng and Guo came to attack, killed Wang Dai, and re-elected King Hui.
In the tenth year of King Hui's reign, he granted Duke Huan of Qi the title of uncle.
In the twenty-fifth year, King Hui passed away, and his son King Xiang Zheng ascended the throne.
King Xiang's mother has passed away long ago. The stepmother is Empress Hui.
Empress Hui gave birth to her uncle, who was favored by King Hui, but King Xiang did not trust him.
In the third year, Shudai negotiated with Rong and Zhai to attack King Xiang. King Xiang wanted to kill Shudai, so Shudai fled to Qi.
Duke Huan of Qi sent Guan Zhong to persuade Rong to make peace with Zhou, and Xi Peng to persuade Rong to make peace with Jin.
summary:
King Xuan restored Zhou's prestige, but King You foolishly lit beacon fires to amuse his concubine Bao Si, causing the princes to lose trust. He deposed his queen and prince, provoking Marquis Shen to join with Quanrong to attack and kill King You. King Ping moved the capital east to Luoyi. The Zhou royal family declined as powerful states like Qi, Chu, Qin, and Jin grew strong. Over subsequent generations, Zhou kings lost authority, with political orders coming from hegemonic monarchs. Eventually, Qin conquered the Western Zhou, obtaining the sacred nine tripods. Seven years later, Qin destroyed the Eastern Zhou, ending the Zhou Dynasty's sacrificial traditions.

