Chunk 0: 
original: 
◎安帝恭帝安皇帝讳德宗，字德宗，孝武帝长子也。太元十二年八月辛巳，立为皇太子。二十一年九月庚申，孝武帝崩。
辛酉，太子即皇帝位，大赦。
癸亥，以司徒、会稽王道子为太傅，摄政。
冬十月甲申，葬孝武皇帝于隆平陵。
大雪。
隆安元年春正月己亥朔，帝加元服，改元，增文武位一等。
太傅、会稽王道子稽首归政。
以尚书左仆射王珣为尚书令，领军将军王国宝为尚书左仆射。
二月，吕光将秃发乌孤自称大都督、大单于，国号南凉。
击光将窦苟于金昌，大破之。
甲寅，尊皇太后李氏为太皇太后。
戊午，立皇后王氏。
三月，吕光子纂为乞伏乾归所败。
光建康太守段业自号凉州牧。
慕容宝败魏师于蓟。
夏四月甲戌，兖州刺史王恭，豫州刺史庾楷举兵，以讨尚书左仆射王国宝、建威将军王绪为名。
甲申，杀国宝及绪以悦于恭，恭乃罢兵。
戊子，大赦。
translation: 
Emperor An's name was Dezong and his courtesy name was Dezong. He was the eldest son of Emperor Xiaowu. In August of the twelfth year of Taiyuan, Xin Si was established as the crown prince. In September of the 21st year of Gengshen, Emperor Xiaowu passed away.
Xin You, the crown prince becomes the emperor and offers amnesty to the whole world.
In Guihai, Situ and Prince Daozi of Kuaiji were appointed as Taifus to act as agents of the government.
In Jiashen, the tenth month of winter, Emperor Xiaowu was buried in Longping Mausoleum.
It's snowing heavily.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Long'an, the emperor was crowned, his reign title was changed, and a first-class official rank was added to the civil and military officials.
Taifu and King Daozi of Kuaiji returned to power.
Appoint Shangshu Zuopushe Wang Xie as Shangshu Ling, and the leading general Wang Guobao as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In February, Lu Guang's general Wu Gu called himself the Great Governor and the Great Chanyu, and his country was named Nanliang.
In Jinchang, he attacked Lu Guang's general Dou Gou and defeated his army.
In the third month of Jiayin, the Empress Dowager Li was honored as the Empress Dowager.
On Wuwu day, Wang was made queen.
Lu Guang's son Lu Zuan was defeated by Qifu Qiangui.
Lu Guang's subordinate Duan Ye, the prefect of Jiankang, named himself Liangzhou Mu.
Murong Shi Ji defeated the Wei army.
In the fourth month of the summer, Jiaxu, Wang Gong, the governor of Yanzhou, and Yu Kai, the governor of Yuzhou, raised troops in the name of attacking Shangshu Zuopushe Wang Guobao and Jianwei general Wang Xu.
Jiashen killed the national treasure and Wang Xulai to please Wang Gong, and Wang Gong stopped his troops.
Wuzi, amnesty to the world.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
五月，前司徒长史王廞以吴郡反，王恭讨平之。
慕容宝将慕容详僭即皇帝位于中山，宝奔黄龙。
秋八月，吕光为其仆射杨轨、散骑常侍郭黁所攻，光子纂击走之。
九月，慕容宝将慕容麟斩慕容详于中山，因僭即皇帝位。
冬十月，慕容麟为魏师所败。
二年春三月，龙舟二灾。
夏五月，兰汗弑慕容宝而自称大将军、昌黎王。
秋七月，慕容宝子盛斩兰汗，僭称长乐王，摄天子位。
兖州刺史王恭、豫州刺史庾楷、荆州刺史殷仲堪、广州刺史桓玄、南蛮校尉杨佺期等举兵反。
八月，江州刺史王愉奔于临川。
丙子，宁朔将军邓启方及慕容德将慕容法战于管城，王师败绩。
丙戌，慕容盛僭即皇帝位于黄龙。
桓玄大败王师于白石。
九月辛卯，加太傅、会稽王道子黄钺。
遣征虏将军会稽王世子元显、前将军王珣、右将军谢琰讨桓玄等。
己亥，破庾楷于牛渚。
丙午，会稽王道子屯中堂，元显守石头。
己酉，前将军王珣守北郊，右将军谢琰备宣阳门。
辅国将军刘牢之次新亭，使子敬宣击败恭，恭奔曲阿长塘湖，湖尉收送京师，斩之。
于是遣太常殷茂喻仲堪及玄，玄等走于寻阳。
冬十月，新野言驺虞见。
translation: 
In May, former Situ Chief Shi Wangchang rebelled in Wu County, but Wang Gong conquered him and put him down.
Murong Shi's general Murong Xiang ascended the throne as the pseudo-emperor in Zhongshan, and Murong Bao fled to Huanglong.
In the eighth month of autumn, Lu Guang was attacked by his servant She Yang Gui and his Sanqi Changshi Guo Mo. Lu Guang's son Lu Zuan defeated them.
In September, Murong Shi's general Murong Lin beheaded Murong Xiang in Zhongshan, and then ascended the throne as the pseudo-emperor.
In October of winter, Murong Lin was defeated by the Wei army.
In the spring and March of the second year, the dragon boat caught fire twice.
In the fifth month of summer, Lan Khan killed Murong Shi and proclaimed himself the general and the king of Changli.
In the seventh month of autumn, Murong Bao's son Murong Sheng beheaded Lan Khan and assumed the title of King of Changle, taking over the throne of emperor.
Wang Gong, the governor of Yanzhou, Yu Kai, the governor of Yuzhou, Yin Zhongkan, the governor of Jingzhou, Huan Xuan, the governor of Guangzhou, and Yang Quanqi, the Nanman captain, rebelled.
In August, Wang Yu, the governor of Jiangzhou, fled and arrived.
In Bingzi, Ning Shuo's general Deng Qifang fought with Murong De's general Murong Fa in Guancheng, and Wang's division was defeated.
In Bingxu, Murong Sheng usurped the throne in Huanglong and called himself emperor.
Huan Xuan defeated Wang Shi in Baishi.
On Xinmao in the ninth month, Huang Tie, the Taifu and Prince Daozi of Kuaiji, was added.
He sent the conquest general Yuan Xian, the eldest son of King Kuaiji, the former general Wang Shi, and the right general Xie Yan to attack Huan Xuan and others.
Jihai defeated Yu Kai at Niuzhu.
On Bingwu, King Daozi of Kuaiji stationed troops in the middle hall, and Yuan Xian guarded the stone.
In Jiyou, the former general Wang died defending the northern suburbs, and the right general Xie Yan guarded Xuanyang Gate.
Liu Laozhi, the general of the auxiliary state, was stationed in Xinting and sent his son Jingxuan to defeat Wang Gong. Wang Gong fled to Changtang Lake in Qu'a. The lake captain arrested him and sent him to the capital, where he was beheaded.
So he sent Taichang Yin Maoxiao to inform Zhongkan and Huanxuan, and Huanxuan waited in Xunyang.
In October of winter, there were reports of the appearance of righteous beasts in Xinye.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
丙子，大赦。
壬午，仲堪等盟于寻阳，推桓玄为盟主。
十一月，以琅邪王德文为卫将军、开府仪同三司，领军将军王雅为尚书左仆射。
十二月己丑，魏王珪即尊位，年号天兴。
京兆人韦华帅襄阳流人叛，降于姚兴。
己酉，前新安太守杜炯反于京口，会稽王世子元显讨斩之。
秃发乌孤自称武威王。
三年春正月辛酉，封宗室蕴为淮陵王。
二月甲辰，河间王国镇薨。
林邑范胡达陷日南、九真，遂寇交阯，太守杜瑗讨破之。
段业自称凉王。
仇池公杨盛遣使称藩，献方物。
三月己卯，追尊所生陈夫人为德皇太后。
夏四月乙未，加尚书令王珣卫将军，以会稽王世子元显为扬州刺史。
六月戊子，以琅邪王德文为司徒。
慕容德陷青州，害龙骧将军辟闾浑，遂僭即皇帝位于广固。
秋八月，秃发乌孤死，其弟利鹿孤嗣伪位。
冬十月，姚兴陷洛阳，执河南太守辛恭靖。
十一月甲寅，妖贼孙恩陷会稽，内史王凝之死之，吴国内史桓谦、临海太守新蔡王崇、义兴太守魏隐并委官而遁，吴兴太守谢邈、永嘉太守司马逸皆遇害。
遣卫将军谢琰、辅国将军刘牢之逆击，走之。
十二月，桓玄袭江陵，荆州刺史殷仲堪、南蛮校尉杨佺期并遇害。
吕光立其太子绍为天王，自号太上皇。
是日，光死，吕纂弑绍而自立。
是岁，荆州大水，平地三丈。
四年春正月乙亥，大赦。
translation: 
Bingzi, amnesty to the world.
In Renwu, Zhongkan and others formed an alliance in Xunyang and elected Huan Xuan as the leader of the alliance.
In November, King Dewen of Langxie was appointed as the general of Wei and the third division of Kaifu Yitong, and the leading general Wang Ya was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In the twelfth month of the lunar month, Ji Chou, King Tuoba Gui of Wei ascended the throne and was named Tianxing.
Wei Hua, a native of Jingzhao, led the refugees in Xiangyang to rebel and surrendered to Yao Xing.
In Jiyou, the former Xin'an prefect Du Jiong was in Beijing: he rebelled, and Yuan Xian, the prince of Kuaiji, attacked and beheaded him.
The bald Wugu calls himself King Wuwei.
On the Xinyou day of the first month of the third year of spring, Sima Yun of the clan was granted the title of King of Huailing.
On the first day of February, Hejian Kingdom passed away.
Fanhuda of Linyi captured Rinan and Jiuzhen, and then invaded Jiaotou. The prefect Du Yuan defeated him in a crusade.
Duan Ye calls himself King of Liang.
Qiu Chi Gong Yang Sheng sent an envoy to express his willingness to offer local products to the vassal.
On March 9th, he honored his biological mother, Mrs. Chen, as the Empress Dowager De.
At the end of April in Xia, he was granted the title of Shangshu Ling Wang to die as General of the Guard, and Yuan Xian, the prince of Kuaiji, was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou.
In the sixth month of Wuzi, King Dewen of Langxie was appointed Situ.
Ji Jiade captured Qingzhou and killed General Long Xiang Pi Jianhun, so he assumed the throne of emperor in Guanggu.
In the eighth month of autumn, Bald-haired Wugu died, and his younger brother Lilugu succeeded to the pseudo-throne.
In the tenth month of winter, Yao Xing captured Luoyang and captured Xin Gongjing, the governor of Henan.
In the 11th month of Jiayin, the demon thief Sun En captured Kuaiji. Wang Ning, the internal historian, was killed. Huanqian, the internal historian of Wu, Sima Chong, the king of Xincai, the prefect of Linhai, and Wei Yin, the prefect of Yixing, all abandoned their offices and fled. Xie Miao, the prefect of Chengyuan, and Sima Yi, the prefect of Chengtai, were all killed.
General Wei Xie Yan and General Liu Laozhi were sent to attack him and beat him away.
In December, Danshi attacked and Xingye governor Bulili and Nanman captain Yang Quanqi were killed together.
Lu Guang made his crown prince Lu Shao the king of heaven and called himself the Supreme Emperor.
On the same day, Lu Guang died, and Lu Zuan killed Lu Shao and then became independent.
One year later, there was a flood in Jingzhou, and the water in the flat land was three feet deep.
In the spring of the fourth year of the first lunar month of Yihai, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
二月己丑，有星孛于奎娄，进至紫微。
三月，彗星见于太微。
夏四月，地震。
孙恩寇浃口。
五月丙寅，散骑常侍、卫将军、东亭侯王珣卒。
己卯，会稽内史谢琰为孙恩所败，死之。
恩转寇临海。
六月庚辰朔，日有蚀之。
旱。
辅国司马刘裕破恩于南山。
恩将卢循陷广陵，死者三千馀人。
以琅邪王师何澄为尚书左仆射。
秋七月壬子，太皇太后李氏崩。
丁卯，大赦。
是月，姚兴伐乞伏乾归，降之。
八月丁亥，尚书右仆射王雅卒。
壬寅，葬文太后于修平陵。
九月癸丑，地震。
冬十一月，宁朔将军高雅之及孙恩战于馀姚，王师败绩。
以扬州刺史元显为后将军、开府仪同三司、都督扬豫徐兖青幽冀并荆江司雍梁益交广十六州诸军事，前将军刘牢之为镇北将军，封元显子彦璋为东海王。
十二月戊寅，有星孛于天市。
translation: 
In February, a comet appeared between Kuisu and Lousu, entering the Ziwei constellation.
In March, the comet appeared too faint.
Summer April, earthquake.
Sun En invaded this day.
In the fifth month of the fifth month, Bingyin, the regular servants of Sanqi, the generals of the guards, and the prince of Shutinghou died.
In Ji Mao, He Ji Nei Shi Yao Tuo was defeated by Jian Mo and died in battle.
Sun En turned to invade Linhai.
The first day of the Gengchen lunar month in June. There is a solar eclipse.
drought.
Liu Yu, Sima of the auxiliary state, defeated Sun En in Nanshan.
Sun En's general Lu Xun captured Guangling, killing more than 3,000 people.
Tan Kuan, the master of King Langxie, was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In the seventh month of Autumn, the Empress Dowager Kui passed away.
Ding Mao, amnesty to the world.
That month, Yao Xing attacked Beggars Yue Ni and made him surrender.
In the eighth month of Dinghai, Shangshu's right servant Wang Ya died.
Renyin buried Empress Dowager Wen in Xiuping Mausoleum.
September Guichou, earthquake.
In November of winter, General Ningshuo Gao Yazhi fought against Jianmo in Yuyao, and the Wang division was defeated.
Yuan Xian, the governor of Yangzhou, was appointed as the rear general, the third division of Kaifu Yitong, the governor of Yangyu, Xu Yanqingyouji, and the military commander of the sixteen states of Baosi, Yuluan Yikuilu. Former general Liu Laozhi was appointed as the general of Zhenbei, and Tong Jian, the son of Douti, was appointed as the king of Sai Nie.
On December Wuyin, a comet appeared in the Tianshixing area.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
是岁，河右诸郡奉凉武昭王李玄盛为秦凉二州牧、凉公，年号庚子。
五年春二月丙子，孙恩复寇浃口。吕超弑吕纂，以其兄隆僭即伪位。
三月甲寅，众星西流，历太微。
夏五月，孙恩寇沪渎吴国，内史袁山松死之。
沮渠蒙逊杀段业，自号大都督、北凉州牧。
六月甲戌，孙恩至丹徒。
乙亥，内外戒严，百官入居于省。
冠军将军高素、右卫将军张崇之守石头，辅国将军刘袭栅断淮口，丹杨尹司马恢之戍南岸，冠军将军桓谦、辅国将军司马允之、游击将军毛邃备白石，左卫将军王嘏、领军将军孔安国屯中皇堂。
征豫州刺史、谯王尚之卫京师。
宁朔将军高雅之击孙恩于广陵之郁洲，为贼所执。
秋七月，段玑弑慕容盛，盛叔父熙尽诛段氏，因僭称尊号。
九月，吕隆降于姚兴。
冬十月，姚兴帅师侵魏，大败而旋。
是岁，饑，禁酒。
元兴元年春正月庚午朔，大赦，改元。
translation: 
After one year of dispatch, he returned to the right counties and consecrated King Li Xuansheng of Wuzhao of Liang as the shepherd of the two prefectures of Taiji and the Duke of Liang, with the title of Gengzi.
In the spring of the fifth year, Sun En invaded the country again. Lu Chao killed Lu Zuan and made his brother Lu Long the false emperor.
In March Jiayin, many stars fell to the west and passed through the Taiwei Star Yuan.
In the fifth month of summer, Sun En invaded Hudu, and Wu Domestic Shi Yuan Shansong died in battle.
Juqu Mengxun killed Duan Ye and called himself the Grand Governor and the Mu of Northern Liang Prefecture.
In the sixth month of Jiaxu, Sun En arrived at Dantu.
In Yihai, martial law was imposed both internally and externally, and hundreds of officials lived in the Taiwan Provincial Government Office.
The champion general Gao Su and the right guard general Zhang Chongzhi guarded Shitou. The auxiliary general Liu Xi used a wooden fence to block Huaikou.
The governor of Yuzhou and King Qiao Shangzhi were recruited to defend the capital.
Ning Shuo's general Gao Yazhi attacked Sun En at Yuzhou in Guangling and was captured.
In the seventh month of autumn, Duan Ji killed Murong Sheng. Murong Sheng's uncle Murong Xi killed everyone in the Duan family and then claimed to be emperor.
In September, Lu Long surrendered to Yao Xing.
In the tenth month of winter, Yao Xing led his army to invade Wei and returned with a great defeat.
In the first year of the lunar month, there was a famine and it was forbidden to make wine.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Wuxing, there was a general amnesty and the reign name was changed.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
以后将军元显为骠骑大将军、征讨大都督，镇北将军刘牢之为元显前锋，前将军、谯王尚之为后部，以讨桓玄。
二月丙午，帝戎服饯元显于西池。
丁巳，遣兼侍中、齐王柔之以驺虞幡宣告荆、江二州。
丁卯，桓玄败王师于姑孰，谯王尚之、齐王柔之并死之。
以右将军吴隐之为都督交广二州诸军事、广州刺史。
三月己巳，刘牢之叛降于桓玄。
辛未，王师败绩于新亭，骠骑大将军、会稽王世子元显，东海王彦璋，冠军将军毛泰，游击将军毛邃并遇害。
壬申，桓玄自为侍中、丞相、录尚书事，以桓谦为尚书仆射，迁太傅、会稽王道子于安城。
玄俄又自称太尉、扬州牧，总百揆，以琅邪王德文为太宰。
临海太守辛景击孙恩，斩之。
是月，秃发利鹿孤死，弟傉檀嗣伪位。
秋七月乙亥，新蔡王崇为其奴所害。
八月庚子，尚书下舍灾。
冬十月，冀州刺史刘轨叛奔于慕容德。
translation: 
He appointed the rear general Yuan Xian as the hussar general and the governor of the expedition, appointed the Zhenbei general Liu Laozhi as the vanguard of Yuan Xian, and the former general Qiao Wang Shangzhi as the rear to attack Huan Xuan.
On Bingwu in February, the emperor dressed in military uniform and paid a farewell visit to Yuan Xian in Xichi.
Ding Si sent King Rouzhi of Qi, who was also serving as a minister, to use Yu banners to inform Jing and Jiang states.
In Ding Mao, Huan Xuan defeated Wang Shi in Gushu, and King Qiao Shangzhi and King Qi Rouzhi died together.
Wu Yinzhi, the right general, was appointed as the commander-in-chief and handed over to the military affairs of the two states of Guangzhou and the governor of Guangzhou.
In March, Liu Laozhi betrayed and surrendered to Huan Xuan.
At Xinwei, the king's army was defeated in Xinting. General Hussar, Prince Yuanxian of Kuaiji, Wang Yanzhang of Shuhai, champion general Mao Tai, and guerrilla general Mao Sui were killed together.
In Renshen, Huanxuan appointed himself as a servant, prime minister, and recorded the affairs of the minister. He appointed Huan Qian as the minister's servant, and moved the Taifu and King Daozi of Kuaiji to Ancheng.
Huanxuan soon called himself Taiwei, Yangzhou Mu, and Prime Minister of political affairs, and made Langxie Wang Dewen the Grand Prime Minister.
Gui Liang, the corrupt prefect, attacked Zhu Mo and killed him.
That month, Tu'elu died alone, and his younger brother Tu'an succeeded to the throne.
In the seventh month of Autumn and Yihai, Sima Chong, the king of Xincai, was killed by his servants.
In the eighth month of Gengzi, a fire broke out in Shangshu's private residence.
In the tenth month of winter, Liu Gui, the governor of Jizhou, rebelled and fled to Jichashan.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
十二月庚申，会稽王道子为桓玄所害。
曲赦广陵、彭城大逆以下。
二年春二月辛丑，建威将军刘裕破徐道覆于东阳。
乙卯，桓玄自称大将军。
丁巳，冀州刺史孙无终为桓玄所害。
夏四月癸巳朔，日有蚀之。
秋八月，玄又自号相国、楚王。
九月，南阳太守庾仄起义兵，为玄所败。
冬十一月壬午，玄迁帝于永安宫。
癸未，移太庙神主于琅邪国。
十二月壬辰，玄篡位，以帝为平固王。
辛亥，帝蒙尘于寻阳。
三年春二月，帝在寻阳。
庚寅夜，涛水入石头，漂杀人户。
乙卯，建武将军刘裕帅沛国刘毅、东海何无忌等举义兵。
丙辰，斩桓玄所署徐州刺史桓修于京口，青州刺史桓弘于广陵。丁巳，义师济江。
三月戊午，刘裕斩玄将吴甫之于江乘，斩皇甫敷于罗落。
己未，玄众溃而逃。
translation: 
In the 12th month of Gengshen, King Dao of Kuaiji was killed by Danxuan.
Special amnesty will be given to criminals in Guangling and Pengcheng who have committed crimes of treason and below.
In the spring and February of the second year of Xinchou, Jianwei general Liu Yu defeated Xu Daofu in Shuyang.
In Yimao, Huan Xuan called himself a general.
Ding Si, Sun Wu, the governor of Jizhou, was killed by Huan Xuan.
On the first day of the fourth lunar month in summer, there is a solar eclipse.
In the eighth month of autumn, Huan Xuan called himself Prime Minister and King of Chu.
September. Yu Ping, the prefect of Nanyang, raised an army but was defeated by Huan Xuan.
In Renwu, the eleventh month of winter, Huan Xuan moved the emperor to Yong'an Palace.
Guiwei moved the ancestral tablets wrapped in the Ancestral Temple to Langye Kingdom.
On Renchen in the twelfth month, Huan Xuan usurped the throne of emperor and made Zhou Yi the king of Pinggu.
In Xinhai, the emperor was imprisoned in Xunyang.
In the spring and February of the third year, Emperor An was in Xunyang.
On the night of Gengyin, the river poured into Huti, washing away property and drowning people.
On Yimao, Jianwu general Liu Yu led Liu Yi from Pei, He Wuji from Shuhai and others to raise troops.
In Bingchen, Dankai, the governor of Biezhu appointed by Danbao in Saidan, was killed, and Dancong, the governor of Yiye appointed by Danbao in Luzuo. At Dingsi, the rebel army crossed Kendou.
On Wuwu in the third month, Liu Yu took advantage of the situation and killed Huan Xuan's general Wu Fuzhi in Jiang, and killed Huang Zhisu in Shen.
Before long, Danxuan's tribe collapsed and fled.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
庚申，刘裕置留台，具百官。
壬戌，桓玄司徒王谧推刘裕行镇军将军、徐州刺史、都督扬徐兖豫青冀幽并八州诸军事、假节。
刘裕以谧领扬州刺史、录尚书事。
辛酉，刘裕诛尚书左仆射王愉、愉子荆州刺史绥、司州刺史温详。
辛未，桓玄逼帝西上。
丙戌，密诏以幽逼于玄，万机虚旷，令武陵王遵依旧典，承制总百官行事，加侍中，余如故。
并大赦谋反大逆已下，惟桓玄一祖之后不宥。
夏四月己丑，大将军、武陵王遵称制，总万机。
庚寅，帝至江陵。
庚戌，辅国将军何无忌、振武将军刘道规及桓玄将庾稚、何澹之战于湓口，大破之。
玄复逼帝东下。
五月癸酉，冠军将军刘毅及桓玄战于峥嵘洲，又破之。
己卯，帝复幸江陵。
辛巳，荆州别驾王康产、南郡太守王腾之奉帝居于南郡。
壬午，督护冯迁斩桓玄于貊盘洲。
乘舆反正于江陵。
甲申，诏曰 奸凶篡逆，自古有之。
朕不能式遏杜渐，以致播越。
赖镇军将军裕英略奋发，忠勇绝世，冠军将军毅等诚心宿著，协同嘉谋。
义声既振，士庶效节，社稷载安，四海齐庆。
其大赦，凡诸畏逼事屈逆命者，一无所问 戊寅，奉神主入于太庙。
闰月己丑，桓玄故将扬武将军桓振陷江陵，刘毅、何无忌退守寻阳，帝复蒙尘于贼营。
六月，益州刺史毛璩讨伪梁州刺史桓希，斩之。
translation: 
Gengshen and Liu Yu established Liutai and appointed hundreds of officials.
In Renxu, Huanxuan's Situ Wangxi recommended Suqi to be temporarily the general of the Zhenjun army, the governor of Tuye, and the governor of Dangtuman.
Wang Gan was appointed concurrently as governor of Zhimaggot and secretary of green affairs.
In Xinyou, he killed Shangshu Zuopushe Wang Yu in Suai, Wang Yu's son Wang Sui, the governor of Jingzhou, and Tuijin, the governor of Sizhou.
At the end of the Xin Dynasty, the Yuanshi kidnapped the boy and walked west.
Bingxu secretly told Shao that state affairs could not be handled because he was imprisoned and forced by Huanxuan. The King of Wuling, Sima Zun, was ordered to follow the old regulations and uphold the emperor's will to lead all officials to handle political affairs, and to increase the number of servants. The other official positions remained as before.
In addition, except for those who committed treason and treason, only members of the Yushi clan could not be forgiven.
In April of the Xia Dynasty, Sima Zun, the general and king of Wuling, exercised the power of the emperor and became the prime minister of the government.
Gengyin, Baotong arrived at Liaolu.
In Gengxu, General He Wuji, the auxiliary general, and Liu Daodan, the Zhenwu general, fought at Yudan and Yuanbaobu generals Li Zheng and He Shizhi, and severely defeated their armies.
Huan Xuan took Emperor An away and took him hostage.
In the fifth month of Guiyou, the champion general Liu Yi and Huan Xuan fought in Zhengrongzhou and defeated the enemy.
On Ji Mao, the emperor came to Jiangling again.
At Xinsi, Wang Kangchan, the king of Biejia in Jingzhou, and Wang Shengzhi, the prefect of Bedeng, served the emperor and lived in Zhixian.
In Renwu, the governor Feng Qian beheaded Huan Xuan in Qianpanzhou.
The emperor returned to the capital from Jiangling.
Jiashen issued an edict saying: Traitors and murderous people usurp the throne and seek rebellion. This has happened since ancient times.
I couldn't stop them, so I went into exile.
Relying on the town army general Liu Yu to display his talents and strategies, with unparalleled loyalty and bravery, as well as the champion general Liu Yi and other loyal ministers and famous generals, we can work together to formulate good strategies.
After the reputation of the volunteers spread, scholars and common people came to pledge their allegiance, and the country was stabilized, and people from all over the world celebrated together.
A general amnesty is hereby granted, and all those who serve and submit to the rebels due to coercion will not be held accountable. Wuyin returned the ancestral tablets to the Ancestral Temple.
On the leap month of Jichou, Panjiu's general Yangwu captured Yandu, Liuqian and Baocu; he retreated to Manbao, where Zhutong was kidnapped again and taken to the bandit camp.
In June, the governor Wang Bi attacked the fake Luanye governor Zou Hua and beheaded him.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
秋七月戊申，永安皇后何氏崩。
八月癸酉，祔葬穆帝章皇后于永平陵。
九月，前给事中刁骋、秘书丞王迈之谋反，伏诛。
冬十月，卢循寇广州，刺史吴隐之为循所败。执始兴相阮腆之而还。
慕容德死，兄子超嗣伪位。
义熙元年春正月，帝在江陵。
南阳太守鲁宗之起义兵，袭破襄阳。
己丑，刘毅次于马头。
桓振以帝屯于江津。
辛卯，宗之破振将温楷于柞溪，进次纪南，为振所败。
振武将军刘道规击桓谦，走之。
乘舆反正，帝与琅邪王幸道规舟。
戊戌，诏曰 朕以寡德，夙纂洪绪。
不能缉熙遐迩，式遏奸宄。
逆臣桓玄乘衅肆乱，乃诬罔天人，篡据极位。
朕躬播越，沦胥荒裔，宣皇之基，眇焉以坠。
赖镇军将军裕忠武英断，诚冠终古。
translation: 
In the seventh month of autumn in Wushen, Queen He of Yong'an passed away.
In the eighth month of Guiyou, Queen Dietongtong was buried together in Chengduo.
In September, Wang Yan, the former secretary and secretary of Danbi, rebelled and was executed.
In the tenth month of winter, Lu Zhong invaded Lu Cong, and the governor Chengluzhi was defeated by Lu Zhong. He captured the leader of the doctor, Duoxing, and left.
Fucha Shan died, and his elder brother's son Murong Chao succeeded to the false throne.
In the first month of spring of the first year of the year, Xuantong was in the world of mortals.
A prefect formed a fortress and mobilized righteous soldiers to attack and break the fortress house.
Ji Chou, Xing Qian entered Mo Nuo.
Danzuo took Saitong to station in Sida.
In Xinmao, the leader of the fortress defeated Danzhong's general Wen Ji in Lioxuan. He advanced and stationed his troops in Jingzhi, but was defeated by Dan Tu.
General Zhenwu attacked Dansui and drove him away.
Sai Tong came back and returned to Dao Nie's boat with the Fallen Witch King.
In the year of Wuxu, an edict was issued saying: Because of my lack of benevolence, I inherited the great inheritance prematurely.
It cannot bring stability and peace to all directions, far and near, and subdue the rebellion of good people.
The rebellious minister Frog took the opportunity to cause chaos, deceiving God and the people, and usurping the emperor's position.
I was exiled and reduced to a remote place, and the foundation of Emperor Xuan fell into decline.
Fortunately, Liu Yu, the general of the town army, was loyal, brave, wise and decisive, and his loyalty was unparalleled in ancient and modern times.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
运谋机始，贞贤协其契。抆泪誓众，义士感其心。
故霜戈一挥。巨猾奔迸，三率棱威，大憝授首。
而孽振猖狂，嗣凶荆郢。
幸天祚社稷，义旗载捷，狡徒沮溃，朕获反正。
斯实宗庙之灵，勤王之勋。
岂朕一人，独享伊祜，思与亿兆，幸兹更始。
其大赦，改元，唯玄振一祖及同党不在原例。
赐百官爵二级，鳏寡孤独谷人五斛，大酺五日 二月丁巳，留台备乘舆法驾，迎帝于江陵。
弘农太守戴宁之、建威主簿徐惠子等谋反，伏诛。
平西参军谯纵害平西将军、益州刺史毛璩，以蜀叛。
三月，桓振复袭江陵，荆州刺史司马休之奔于襄阳。
建威将军刘怀肃讨振，斩之。
帝至自江陵。
乙未，百官诣阙请罪。
translation: 
When planning and timing, loyal and virtuous people worked together with him; when he led the crowd to swear an oath with anger and tears, the loyal warriors were moved by his loyalty.
Therefore, with a single blow of the sword, the cunning and cunning people will run away, the general's majesty will be unstoppable, and the most evil person will be punished.
However, the remnant Huan Zhen is still rampant and continues to show off his evil deeds.
Fortunately, God has blessed the country, the rebels have been victorious one after another, the ferocious evil party has been defeated in despair, and I have been able to return.
It is the protection of the ancestors and the merits of the diligent king.
How can I enjoy that blessing alone? I want to celebrate the rebirth of the national destiny with billions of people.
A general amnesty is hereby granted and the reign name is changed. Only Huanxuan and Huanzhen's tribe and associates are not included in the amnesty.
The hundred officials were given the rank of second grade, the widows and widowers were given five dendrobium grains each, and the banquet was held for five days. On Dingsi in February, he stayed in Taiwan, prepared his carriages and horses, and went to Jiangling to welcome the emperor back.
Dai Ningzhi, the governor of Hongnong, Xu Huizi, the chief secretary of Jianwei, and others plotted a rebellion and were executed.
Pingxi joined the army and Qiao Zong killed General Pingxi and Yizhou governor Mao Chu, and led the Shu region to rebel.
In March, Huan Zhen attacked Jiangling again, and Sima Xiuzhi, the governor of Jingzhou, fled to Xiangyang.
General Jianwei Liu Huaisu attacked Huan Zhen and beheaded him.
The emperor arrived in the capital from Jiangling.
At the end of the day, hundreds of officials came to the palace gate to plead guilty.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
诏曰 此非诸卿之过，其还率职 戊戌，举章皇后哀三日，临于西堂。
刘裕及何无忌等抗表逊位，不许。
庚子，以琅邪王德文为大司马，武陵王遵为太保，加镇军将军刘裕为侍中、车骑将军、都督中外诸军事。
甲辰，诏曰 自顷国难之后，人物凋残，常所供奉，犹不改旧，岂所以视人如伤，禹汤归过之诫哉。
可筹量减省 夏四月，刘裕旋镇京口。
戊辰，饯于东堂。
五月癸未，禁绢扇及摴蒲。
游击将军、章武王秀，益州刺史司马轨之谋反，伏诛。
桓玄故将桓亮、苻宏、刁预寇湘州，守将击走之。
秋八月甲子，封临川王子修之为会稽王。
冬十一月，乞伏乾归伐仇池，仇池公杨盛大破之。
是岁，凉武昭王玄盛遣使奉表称藩。
二年春正月，益州刺史司马荣期击谯纵将谯子明于白帝，破之。
translation: 
Xia Shao said: This is not your fault, you should go back and perform your duties. In the year of Wuxu, we mourned for Empress Zhang for three days and held her funeral in the West Hall.
Liu Yu, He Wuji and others petitioned for permission to give up their seats, but were not granted permission.
Gengzi appointed King Dewen of Langye as Grand Sima, King Sima Zun of Wuling as Taibao, and appointed General Liu Yu of the Zhenjun as Shizhong, General of Chariots and Cavalry, and Commander-in-Chief of all Chinese and foreign military affairs.
Jiachen, issued an edict: Since the national disaster occurred not long ago, the population and property have been greatly reduced, but the daily supply has not changed the old regulations. Is it not the ancients' warning to care for the people like wounds, or to attribute the fault to oneself like Yu Tang?
Reductions and savings can be considered. In April of summer, Liu Yu returned to guard Jingkou.
Wuchen, farewell in the east hall.
During the fifth month of Guiwei, the manufacture of silk fans and gambling games are prohibited.
Sima Xiu, the guerrilla general and King of Zhangwu, and Sima Gui, the governor of Yizhou, rebelled and were executed.
Huan Xuan's old generals Huan Liang, Fu Hong, and Diao Yu invaded Xiangzhou, and the defenders beat them away.
In the eighth month of autumn, Jiazi, Xiu, the son of King Lin, was granted the title of King of Kuaiji.
In the eleventh month of winter, Qifu Gan returned to attack Qiuchi, but Yang Shengda, the Duke of Qiuchi, defeated them.
This year, King Xuan Sheng of Liangwu Zhao sent an envoy to express his willingness to declare himself a vassal state.
In the spring and first month of the second year, Sima Rongqi, the governor of Yizhou, attacked Qiao Zong's general Qiao Ziming in Baidi and defeated him.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
夏五月，封高密王子法莲为高阳王。
秋七月，梁州刺史杨孜敬有罪，伏诛。
冬十月，论匡复之功，封车骑将军刘裕为豫章郡公，抚军将军刘毅南平郡公，右将军何无忌安成郡公，自馀封赏各有差。
乙亥，以左将军孔安国为尚书左仆射。
十二月，盗杀零陵太守阮野。
三年春二月己酉，车骑将军刘裕来朝。
诛东阳太守殷仲文、南蛮校尉殷叔文、晋陵太守殷道叔、永嘉太守骆球。
己丑，大赦，除酒禁。
夏五月，大水。
六月，姚兴将赫连勃勃僭称天王于朔方，国号夏。
秋七月戊戌朔，日有蚀之。
汝南王遵之有罪，伏诛。
八月，遣冠军将军刘敬宣持节监征蜀诸军事。
冬十一月，赫连勃勃大败秃发傉檀，傉檀奔于南山。
是岁，高云、冯跋杀慕容熙，云僭即帝位。
translation: 
In the fifth month of summer, Falian, the son of King Gaomi, was granted the title of King Gaoyang.
In the seventh month of autumn, Yang Zijing, the governor of Liangzhou, committed a crime and was executed.
In the tenth month of winter, based on Kuang Fu's merits, Liu Yu, the general of chariots and cavalry, was granted the title of Duke of Yuzhang, General Liu Yi of the Fu army was granted the title of Duke of Nanchuo, and General He Wuji of the right was granted the title of Duke of Ancheng.
In Yihai, Kong Anguo, the general of the left, was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In December, thieves killed Ruan Ye, the prefect of Lingling.
In the spring and February of the third year, Liu Yu, the general of chariots and cavalry, came to see him.
Killed Yin Zhongwen, the prefect of Dongyang, Yin Shuwen, the prefect of Nanluan, Yin Daoshu, the prefect of Jinling, and Luo Qiu, the prefect of Yongjia.
If you are ugly, you will be granted amnesty and the ban on making wine will be lifted.
In May of summer, there was a big flood.
In June, Yao Xing's general Helian Bobo proclaimed himself the King of Heaven in Shuofang, and his country was named Xia.
There is a solar eclipse on the first day of the Lunar New Year in the seventh month of autumn.
King Zunzhi of Runan committed a crime and was executed.
In August, the champion general Liu Jingyi was dispatched to supervise various military affairs in the conquest of Shu.
In the eleventh month of winter, Helian Bobo defeated Bald Shetan, who fled to Nanshan.
A year later, Gao Yun and Feng Ba killed Murong Xi, and Gao Yun ascended the throne as emperor.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
四年春正月甲辰，以琅邪王德文领司徒，车骑将军刘裕为扬州刺史、录尚书事。
庚申，侍中、太保、武陵王遵薨。
夏四月，散骑常侍、尚书左仆射孔安国卒。
甲午，加吏部尚书孟昶尚书左仆射。
冬十一月癸丑，雷。
梁州刺史杨思平有罪，弃市。
辛卯，大风拔树。是月，秃发傉檀僭即凉王位。
十二月，陈留王曹灵诞薨。
五年春正月辛卯，大赦。
庚戌，以抚军将军刘毅为卫将军、开府仪同三司，加辅国将军何无忌镇南将军。
戊戌，寻阳地震。
二月，慕容超将慕容兴宗寇宿豫，阳平太守刘千载、南阳太守赵元并为贼所执。
三月己亥，大雪，平地数尺。
车骑将军刘裕帅师伐慕容超。
夏六月丙寅，震于太庙。
刘裕大破慕容超于临朐。
translation: 
In the spring of the fourth year, on the first month of the first lunar month, King Dewen of Langxie was appointed concurrently as Situ, and General Liu Yu was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou and the official secretary of Yangzhou.
Gengshen, Shizhong, Taibao, and Wuling King Sima Zun died.
In the fourth month of summer, Sanqi Changshi and Shangshu Zuopushe passed away in Anguo.
In the Jiawu period, Meng Chang, the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, was granted the title of Minister Zuopushe.
On the Xinmao day of November in winter, strong wind uprooted the trees. Guichou, there is thunder.
Yang Siping, the governor of Liangzhou, committed a crime and was executed and his body was left on the street.
That month, Bald Hair hired Tan to usurp the throne of Liang.
In December, Cao Ling, king of Chenliu, passed away.
In the spring of the fifth year of the first lunar month of Xin Mao, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In Gengxu, Liu Yi, the general of the Fu army, was appointed as the general of Wei and the third division of Kaifu Yitong. He Wuji, the general of the auxiliary state, was also appointed as the general of Zhennan.
In 1898, an earthquake occurred in Xunyang.
In February, Murong Chao's general Murong Xingzong invaded Suyu. Liu Qianzai, the governor of Yangping, and Zhao Yuan, the governor of Nanyang, were both captured by the thieves.
In March, it snowed heavily, and the snow was several feet deep on the flat ground.
Chariot general Liu Yu led the army to attack Murong Chao.
In the sixth month of summer, Bingyin, the Imperial Ancestral Temple was struck by lightning.
Liu Zheng defeated Murong Chao in Linqu.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
秋七月，姚兴将乞伏乾归僭称西秦王于苑川。
九月戊辰，离班弑高云，云将冯跋攻班，杀之。
跋僭即王位，仍号燕。
冬十月，魏清河王绍弑其主珪。
六年春二月丁亥，刘裕攻慕容超，克之，齐地悉平。
是月，广州刺史卢循反，寇江州。
三月，秃发傉檀及沮渠蒙逊战于穷泉，傉檀败绩。
壬申，镇南将军、江州刺史何无忌及循战于豫章，王师败绩，无忌死之。
夏四月，青州刺史诸葛长民、兖州刺史刘藩、并州刺史刘道怜乃入卫京师。
五月丙子，大风，拔木。
戊子，卫将刘毅及卢循战于桑落洲，王师败绩。
尚书左仆射孟昶惧，自杀。
己未，大赦。
乙丑，循至淮口，内外戒严。
translation: 
In the seventh month of Autumn, Yao Xing's tribe led the Qi Fu Gang Crocodile to claim the title of King of Western Qin in Yuanchuan.
On Wuchen in the ninth month, Liban killed Gao Yun. Gao Yun's general Feng Ba attacked Liban and killed him.
Feng Ba ascended the throne, still known as Yan.
In the tenth month of winter, Tuoba Shao, king of Qinghe in Wei, killed his lord Tuoba Gui.
In the sixth year of spring Dinghai, Liu Yu attacked Murong Chao and defeated him, and the barbarian land was completely pacified.
That month, Lu Xun, the governor of Lu industry, rebelled and invaded the silk industry.
In March, Tufa invaded and invaded and fought against Juqu Mengxun in Seki, and Coupan Tan was defeated.
In Renshen, He Wuji, the general of Zhennan and the governor of Jiangzhou, fought with Lu Xun in Yuzhang. The king's army was defeated and Wuji died in the battle.
In April of summer, Zhuge Changmin, the governor of Qingzhou, Liu Fan, the governor of Yanzhou, and Liu Daolian, the governor of Bingzhou, came to defend the capital.
On the third day of May, strong winds blew and the trees were uprooted.
In Wuzi, Wei general Liu Yi fought with Lu Xun at Sangluozhou, and Wang's division was defeated.
Shangshu Zuopu shot Meng Chang out of fear and committed suicide.
Ji Wei, amnesty.
Yichou and Lu Xun arrived at Huaikou, and martial law was imposed inside and outside the capital.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
大司马、琅邪王德文都督宫城诸军事，次中皇堂，太尉刘裕次石头，梁王珍之屯南掖门，冠军将军刘敬宣屯北郊，辅国将军孟怀玉屯南岸，建武将军王仲德屯越城，广武将军刘怀默屯建阳门，淮口筑柤浦、药园、廷尉三垒以距之。
丙寅，震太庙鸱尾。
秋七月庚申，卢循遁走。
甲子，使辅国将军王仲德、广川太守刘钟、河间内史蒯恩等帅众追之。
是月，卢循寇荆州，刺史刘道规、雍州刺史鲁宗之等败之。
又破徐道覆于华容，贼复走寻阳。
八月，姚兴将桓谦寇江陵，刘道规败之。
冬十一月，蜀贼谯纵陷巴东，守将温祚、时延祖死之。
十二月壬辰，刘裕破卢循于豫章。
七年春二月壬午，右将军刘藩斩徐道覆于始兴，传首京师。
夏四月，卢循走交州，刺史杜慧度斩之。
秋七月丁卯，以荆州刺史刘道规为征西大将军、开府仪同三司。
冬十月，沮渠蒙逊伐凉，凉武昭王玄盛与战，败之。
八年春二月丙子，以吴兴太守孔靖为尚书右仆射。
三月甲寅，山阴地陷四尺，有声如雷。
夏五月，乞伏公府弑乞伏乾归，乾归子炽盘诛公府，僭即伪位。
六月，以平北将军鲁宗之为镇北将军。
秋七月甲午，武陵王季度薨。
庚子，征西大将军刘道规卒。
八月，皇后王氏崩。
辛亥，高密王纯之薨。
九月癸酉，葬僖皇后于休平陵。
己卯，太尉刘裕害右将军兖州刺史刘藩、尚书左仆射谢混。
庚辰，裕矫诏曰 刘毅苞藏祸心，构逆南夏，藩、混助乱，志肆奸宄。
translation: 
Da Sima and Langye King Dewen commanded all the military forces in the palace and were stationed in Zhonghuangtang; Taiwei Liu Yu was stationed in Shitou, Liang Wangzhenzhi stationed troops in Nanyemen, and champion general Liu Jingxuan stationed troops in the northern suburbs to assist the generals. Meng Huaiyu of the army stationed troops on the south bank, General Wang Zhongde of Jianwu stationed troops in Yuecheng, and General Liu Huaimo of Guangwu stationed troops on Jianyangmen. Three forts, namely Zupu, Yaoyuan and Tingwei, were built at Huaikou to resist the enemy.
In Bingyin, the decorative building on the roof of the Imperial Ancestral Temple was struck by lightning.
In the seventh month of autumn, Gengshen and Lu Xun fled.
Jiazi, let the auxiliary general Wang Zhongde, Guang Taishou Liu Zhong, Hejian Neishi Kuai En and others lead their troops to pursue.
That month, Lu Xun invaded Jingzhou, and the governor Liu Daogui, the governor of Yongzhou Lu Zongzhi and others defeated him.
Xu Daofu was defeated in Huarong again, and the thieves fled to Xunyang again.
In August, Yao Xing's general Huan Qian invaded Jiangling, and Liu Daogui defeated him.
In the eleventh month of winter, Qiao Zong, a traitor from Shu, captured Ba Shu, and the defenders Wen Zuo and Shi Yanzu were killed in the battle.
In December of Renchen, Liu Yu defeated Lu Xun in Yuzhang.
In the spring and February of the seventh year, at Renwu, the right general Liu Fan beheaded Xu Daofu in Shixing and sent his head to the capital.
In April of summer, Lu Xun fled to Jiaozhou, where the governor Du Huidu killed him.
In the seventh month of autumn, Ding Mao, Liu Daogui, the governor of Jingzhou, was appointed as the general of the expedition to the west and the third division of Kaifu Yitong.
In the tenth month of winter, Juqu Mengxun attacked Liang. King Xuansheng of Liang Wuzhao fought with him and defeated him.
In the spring and February of the eighth year, Bingzi appointed Kong Jing, the prefect of Wuxing, as Shangshu Youpushe.
In the third month of Jiayin, the ground in Shanyin sank four feet, and there was a sound like thunder.
In the fifth month of summer, Qifu Gongfu killed Qifu Qiangui. Qiangui's son Chipan killed Qifu Gongfu and ascended the throne of the puppet emperor.
In June, Pingbei General Lu Zongzhi was appointed as Zhenbei General.
In the seventh month of autumn, during the Jiawu period, King Wuling died.
Gengzi, Liu Daogui, the general who conquered the West, passed away.
In August, Queen Wang passed away.
In 1911, Wang Chunzhi of Gaomi died.
In the ninth month of Guiyou, Queen Xi was buried in Xiuhu Mausoleum.
In Ji Mao, Taiwei Liu Yu killed Liu Fan, the governor of Yanzhou, the general on the right, and Xie Hun, the minister Zuopu shot.
In Gengchen, Liu Yu falsely sent an edict saying: Liu Yi harbored evil intentions and conspired to rebel in Southern Xia. Liu Fan and Xie Hun assisted in the rebellion and wanted to break the law and cause chaos.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
赖宁辅玄鉴，抚机挫锐，凶党即戮，社稷乂安。
夫好生之德，所因者本，肆眚覃仁，实资玄泽。
况事兴大憝，祸自元凶。
其大赦天下，唯刘毅不在其例。
普增文武位一等。
孝顺忠义，隐滞遗逸，必令闻达 己丑，刘裕帅师讨毅。
裕参军王镇恶陷江陵城，毅自杀。
冬十一月，沮渠蒙逊僭号河西王。
十二月，以西陵太守朱龄石为建威将军、益州刺史，帅师伐蜀。
分荆州十郡置湘州。
是岁，庐陵、南康地四震。
九年春三月丙寅，刘裕害前将军诸葛长民及其弟辅国大将军黎民、从弟宁朔将军秀之。
戊寅，加刘裕镇西将军、豫州刺史。
林邑范胡达寇九真，交州刺史杜慧度斩之。
夏四月壬戌，罢临沂、湖熟皇后脂泽田四十顷，以赐贫人，弛湖池之禁。
translation: 
The ministers who rely on the peace and stability of the country can see clearly, calm down the crisis and defeat the sharp, the stubborn rebel party is eradicated, and the country is peaceful.
The virtue of cherishing living beings makes those who receive kindness grateful and submissive, and pardoning the guilty and extending kindness to others is conducive to the implementation of the emperor's favor.
Moreover, the incident was caused by a big evil person, and the disaster came from several culprits.
A general amnesty is hereby granted to the whole world, but Liu Yi is not included in the amnesty.
Civil and military officials are generally promoted one level.
Anyone who is filial and loyal and lives in seclusion must report it to his superiors. Ji Chou, Liu Yu led the army to attack Liu Yi.
Wang Zhenye, who joined Liu Yu's army, captured Jiangling City, and Liu Yi committed suicide.
In the eleventh month of winter, Juqu Mengxun assumed the title of King of Hexi.
In December, Zhu Lingshi, the governor of Xiling, was appointed as General Jianwei and governor of Yizhou, and led the army to attack Shu.
Ten counties were separated from Jingzhou to establish Xiangzhou.
This year, four earthquakes occurred in Luling and Nankang.
In the spring and March of the ninth year of Bingyin, Liu Yu killed former general Zhuge Changmin, his younger brother Li Min, the general of the state, and his cousin general Ning Shuo Xiuzhi.
In Wuyin, Liu Yu was awarded the title of General Zhenxi and Governor of Yuzhou.
Fan Huda from Linyi invaded Jiuzhen, and Du Huidu, the governor of Jiaozhou, killed him.
In the fourth month of the summer, Renxu, the Queen's forty hectares of Zhize fields in Linyi and Hushu were cancelled, and were used to give to the poor, and the ban on the management of lakes and ponds was relaxed.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
封镇北将军鲁宗之为南阳郡公。
秋七月，朱龄石克成都，斩谯纵，益州平。
九月，封刘裕次子义真为桂阳公。
冬十二月，安平王球之薨。
是岁，高句丽、倭国及西南夷铜头大师并献方物。
十年春三月戊寅，地震。
夏六月，乞伏炽盘帅师伐秃发傉檀，灭之。
秋七月，淮北大风，坏庐舍。
九月丁巳朔，日有蚀之。
林邑遣使来献方物。
是岁，城东府。
十一年春正月，荆州刺史司马休之、雍州刺史鲁宗之并举兵贰于刘裕，裕帅师讨之。
三月辛巳，淮陵王蕴薨。
壬午，刘裕及休之战于江津，休之败，奔襄阳。
夏四月乙卯，青、冀二州刺史刘敬宣为其参军司马道赐所害。
五月甲申，彗星二见。
甲午，休之、宗之出奔于姚泓。
translation: 
Lu Zongzhi, the general in the north of the town, was made Duke of Nanyang.
In the seventh month of autumn, Zhu Lingshi conquered Chengdu, killed Qiao Zong, and Yizhou was pacified.
In September, Liu Yu's second son Yizhen was granted the title of Duke of Guiyang.
In December of winter, Wang Qiu of Anping passed away.
This year, Tongtou masters from Goguryeo, Japan, and Southwest Yi all came to offer local specialties.
In the spring and March of the tenth year, there was an earthquake.
In the sixth month of summer, Qifu Chipan led an army to attack Bald-haired Tan and destroyed him.
In autumn and July, a strong wind in Huaibei destroyed the huts and houses.
On the first day of September, Dingsi, there is a solar eclipse.
Lin Yiguo sent envoys to offer local specialties.
This year, the city wall of Shufu was built.
In the first month of the spring of the eleventh year, Sima Xiuzhi, the governor of Jingzhou, and Lu Zong, the governor of Yongzhou, rebelled against Shaqiang. Liu Zong led the army to attack them.
Geng Wu, amnesty. Ding Chou appointed Xie Yu, Minister of Civil Affairs, as Minister Zuopushe. In the third month of Xinsi, Sima Yun, the king of Huailing, passed away.
In Renwu, Liu Yu fought with Xiuzhi in Jiangjin, but Xiuzhi was defeated and fled to Xiangyang.
In the fourth month of summer, Liu Jingxuan, the governor of Qingzhou and Jizhou, was killed by Sima Daoci, who joined the army.
In May Jiashen, comets appeared twice.
On Jiawu, Xiuzhi and Zongzhi fled to Yao Hong.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
论平蜀功，封刘裕子义隆彭城公，朱龄石丰城公。
己酉，霍山崩，出铜钟六枚。
秋七月丙戌，京师大水，坏太庙。
辛亥晦，日有蚀之。
八月丁未，尚书左仆射谢裕卒，以尚书右仆射刘穆之为尚书左仆射。
九月己亥，大赦。
十二年春正月，姚泓使其将鲁轨寇襄阳，雍州刺史赵伦之击走之。
二月，加刘裕中外大都督。
夏六月，赫连勃勃攻姚泓秦州，陷之。
己酉，新除尚书令、都乡亭侯刘柳卒。
秋八月，刘裕及琅邪王德文帅众伐姚泓。
丙午，大赦。
冬十月丙寅，姚泓将姚光以洛阳降。
己丑，遣兼司空、高密王恢之修谒五陵。
十三年春正月甲戌朔，日有蚀之。
二月，凉武昭王李玄盛薨，世子士业嗣位为凉州牧、凉公。
三月，龙骧将军王镇恶大破姚泓将姚绍于潼关。
translation: 
Based on their contribution to the pacification of Shu, Liu Yu's son Yilong was granted the title of Duke of Pengcheng, and Zhu Lingshi was granted the title of Duke of Fengcheng.
In Jiyou, a landslide occurred in Huoshan Mountain, and six bronze bells were unearthed.
In the autumn and seventh month of Bingxu, the capital was hit by a flood and the Ancestral Temple was flooded.
On the dark day of Xinhai, there will be a solar eclipse.
At the end of August, Shangshu Zuopushe Xie Yu died, and Shangshu Youpushe Liu Muzhi was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe.
Jihai Amnesty in September
In the first month of the spring of the twelfth year, Yao Hong sent his general Lu Gui to invade Xiangyang, but Zhao Lunzhi, the governor of Yongzhou, beat him away.
At the end of February, Yao Xing died, and his son Yao Hong succeeded to the throne. This month, Liu Yu was awarded the title of Grand Governor of China and foreign countries.
In the sixth month of summer, Helian Bobo attacked Yao Hong's Qinzhou and captured it.
In Jiyou, Liu Liu, the newly appointed Shangshu Ling and the Marquis of Duxiang Pavilion, passed away.
In the eighth month of autumn, Liu Yu and Langxie Wang Dewen led their troops to attack Yao Hong.
Bingwu, amnesty.
On Bingyin in the tenth month of winter, Yao Hong's general Yao Guang led Luoyang City to surrender.
己丑，派遣兼司空、高密王恢之修缮拜谒五陵。
On the first day of the first lunar month of the thirteenth year, there was a solar eclipse.
In February, King Li Xuansheng of Wuzhao of Liang passed away, and his son Shiye succeeded him as Muzhou Mu and Duke of Liang.
In March, Longxiang's general Wang Zhen'e defeated Yao Hong's general Yao Shao at Tongguan.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
夏，刘裕败魏将鹅青于河曲，斩青裨将阿薄干。
是月，凉公李士业大败沮渠蒙逊于鲜支涧。五月，刘裕克潼关。
丁亥，会稽王修之薨。
六月癸亥，林邑献驯象、白鹦鹉。
秋七月，刘裕克长安，执姚泓，收其彝器，归诸京师。
南海贼徐道期陷广州，始兴相刘谦之讨平之。
冬十一月辛未，左仆射、前将军刘穆之卒。
十四年春正月辛巳，大赦。
青州刺史沈田子害龙骧将军王镇恶于长安。
夏六月，刘裕为相国，进封宋公。
冬十月，以凉公士业为镇西将军，封酒泉公。
十一月，赫连勃勃大败王师于青泥北。
雍州刺史朱龄石焚长安宫殿，奔于潼关。
寻又大溃，龄石死之。
十二月戊寅，帝崩于东堂，时年三十七。
葬休平陵。
帝不惠，自少及长，口不能言，虽寒暑之变，无以辩也。
凡所动止，皆非己出。
故桓玄之篡，因此获全。
translation: 
In the summer, Liu Yu defeated Wei's general E Qing in Hequ and killed E Qing's general A Bogan.
In the same month, Liang Gong Kuisei defeated Juqu Mengxun in Xianzhijian. In May, the plastic tunnel conquered Tongguan.
On Dinghai, King Xiuzhi of Kuaiji passed away.
In the sixth month of Guihai, Lin Yiguo presented tame elephants and white parrots.
In autumn and July, Liu Yu captured Chang'an, captured Yao Hong, confiscated his Yi weapons, and sent them back to the capital.
Xu Daoqi, a bandit from the South China Sea, captured Guangzhou, and Liu Qian, the Prime Minister of Shixing, suppressed him with a crusade.
In the eleventh month of winter, Zuo Pushe and former general Liu Muzhi passed away.
In the spring of the fourteenth year of the first lunar month of Xinsi, there was a general amnesty.
Shen Tianzi, the governor of Qingzhou, killed General Long Xiang and Wang Zhene in Chang'an.
In June of Xia, Liu Yu was appointed prime minister and promoted to the title of Duke of Song Dynasty.
In the tenth month of winter, Liang Gongshiye was appointed General of Zhenxi and granted the title of Jiuquan Gong.
In November, Helian Bobo defeated Wang's army north of Qingni.
Zhu Lingshi, the governor of Yongzhou, burned the palace in Chang'an and fled to Tongguan.
Soon there was another great defeat, and Ling Shi died as a result.
In December Wuyin, Emperor An died in Shutang at the age of thirty-seven.
Buried in Xiuping Mausoleum.
Emperor An was not smart. He could not speak since he was a child. He did not know how to distinguish between winter and summer, cold and heat.
He cannot take care of himself in any activities of daily living.
Therefore, Huan Xuan was not killed when he usurped the throne.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
初谶云 昌明之后有二帝 ，刘裕将为禅代，故密使王韶之缢帝而立恭帝，以应二帝云。
恭帝讳德文，字德文，安帝母弟也。
初封琅邪王，历中军将军、散骑常侍、卫将军、开府仪同三司，加侍中，领司徒、录尚书六条事。
元兴初，迁车骑大将军。
桓玄执政，进位太宰，加衮冕之服，绿綟绶。
玄篡位，以帝为石阳县公，与安帝俱居寻阳。
及玄败，随至江陵。
玄死，桓振奄至，跃马奋戈，直至阶下，瞋目谓安帝曰 臣门户何负国家，而屠灭若是 帝乃下床谓振曰 此岂我兄弟意邪 振乃下马致拜。
振平，复为琅邪王，又领徐州刺史，寻拜大司马，领司徒，加殊礼。
义熙五年，置左右长史、司马、从事中郎四人，加羽葆鼓吹。
十二年，诏曰 大司马明德懋亲，太尉道勋光大，并徽序彝伦，燮和二气，髦俊引领，思佐鼎饪。
translation: 
There was a prophecy that there would be two emperors after the Ming Dynasty. Liu Yu wanted Sima to abdicate the throne and proclaim himself emperor, so he secretly sent Wang Shaozhi to hang Emperor An and establish Emperor Gong in order to fulfill the prophecy of the two emperors.
Emperor Gong's name was Dewen and his courtesy name was Dewen. He was the half-brother of Emperor An.
At first, he was granted the title of King Langxie, and he successively served as General of the Central Army, Changshi of Sanqi, General of Wei, and Kaifu Yitong. He was also granted the title of Shizhong, and concurrently served as Situ and Lu Shangshu.
At the beginning of the Yuan Dynasty, he was promoted to the general of chariots and cavalry.
After Huanxuan came to power, he was promoted to Dazai, and was awarded the ceremonial dress of Gongyi, crown, and green ribbon.
After Huanxuan usurped the throne, he appointed the emperor as the Duke of Shiyang County and lived in Xunyang with Emperor An.
When Huan Xuan was defeated, he followed the defeated army to Jiangling.
After Huan Xuan died, Huan Zhen suddenly arrived, leaping on his horse and waving his arms, until he reached the steps and said to Emperor An with eyes wide open: "How could the Chen family be so sorry to the country that they were massacred like this?" The emperor then stepped down from the bed and said to Huan Zhen: "Is this what our brothers meant?" So Huan Zhen dismounted his horse and saluted.
After pacifying Huan Zhen, he became King Langxie again. He also served as the governor of Xuzhou, and soon became the Grand Sima and Situ, with special courtesy.
In the fifth year of Yixi's reign, a total of four subordinate officials including Chang Shi, Sima and Zhonglang were appointed, and they were awarded Yu Bao and Zhang Bu.
In the twelfth year, the edict said: The great Sima Zhaoxian's virtues made the royal family more prosperous, and the Taiwei's moral achievements were glorious. All of them made human ethics beautiful and orderly, and harmoniously blended the yin and yang. The talented people led and admired them and wanted to assist him in managing the affairs of the country.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
而雅尚冲挹，四门弗辟，诚合大雅谦虚之道，实违急贤赞世之务。
昔蒲轮载徵，异人并出，东平开府，奇士向臻，济济之盛，朕有钦焉。
可敕二府，依旧辟召，必将明敡俊乂，嗣轨前贤矣 于是始辟召掾属。
时太尉裕都督中外诸军，诏曰 大司马地隆任重，亲贤莫贰。
虽府受节度，可身无致敬 刘裕之北征也，帝上疏，请帅所莅，启行戎路，修敬山陵。
朝廷从之，乃与裕俱发。
及有司以即戎不得奉辞陵庙，帝复上疏曰 臣推毂阃外，将革寒暑，不获展情埏遂，私心罔极。
伏愿天慈，特垂听许，使臣微诚粗申，即路无恨 许之。
及姚泓灭，归于京都。
translation: 
However, he was usually good-looking, humble and self-restrained, and kept the door open. This was in line with the principles of elegance and humility, but actually went against his eagerness to seek virtuous people and help the world.
In the past, the recruited wise men were carried on wheels wrapped in cattails, and extraordinary talents continued to appear. When Shuping opened the mansion, there were many talents, which I long for in my heart.
You can order the two governments to recruit virtuous people according to the old rules, and you will definitely select virtuous talents and follow the example of their predecessors. So he began to select officials under his subordinates.
At that time, Taiwei Liu Yu was in charge of all the Chinese and foreign armies. There was an edict saying: "Da Sima's status is high and he has great responsibilities. He has no second thoughts about his relatives."
Although his officialdom was controlled by the imperial court, he himself did not have to abide by the rules to show respect. When Liu Yu was on the northern expedition, the emperor sent an edict to Emperor An, requesting him to take over his troops and visit the tombs of his ancestors before embarking on the expedition.
The imperial court listened to his opinion and set off with Liu Yu.
When the relevant departments proposed that participants in military affairs were not allowed to visit the mausoleum temple, the emperor once again wrote to Shu: "I will leave the capital with the army for a long time. I will not be able to express my feelings in front of the tombs of my ancestors, and I will have endless regrets in my heart."
I hope to be merciful and grant this request, so that the envoy's sincerity can be expressed, and there will be no regrets on the journey.
approved him. After Yao Hong was eliminated, he returned to Kyoto.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
十四年十二月戊寅，安帝崩。
刘裕矫称遗诏曰 唯我有晋，诞膺明命，业隆九有，光宅四海。
朕以不德，属当多难，幸赖宰辅，拯厥颠覆。
仍恃保祐，克黜祸乱，遂冕旒辰极，混一六合。
方凭阿衡，惟新洪业，而遘疾大渐，将遂弗兴。
仰惟祖宗灵命，亲贤是荷。
咨尔大司马、琅邪王，体自先皇，明德光懋，属惟储贰，众望攸集。
其君临晋邦，奉系宗祀，允执其中，燮和天下。
阐扬末诰，无废我高祖之景命 是日，即帝位，大赦。
元熙元年春正月壬辰朔，改元。
以山陵未厝，不朝会。
立皇后褚氏。甲午，征刘裕还朝。
戊戌，有星孛于太微西藩。
庚申，葬安皇帝于休平陵。
帝受朝，悬而不乐。
以骠骑将军刘道怜为司空。
秋八月，刘裕移镇寿阳。
translation: 
In December of the 14th year of Wuyin, Emperor An passed away.
Liu Yu falsely claimed the imperial edict and said: Only we, the Jin Dynasty, comply with the glorious destiny, lead the nine states with achievements, and protect the whole world with glory.
Because of my lack of virtue, I was in trouble. Fortunately, I relied on the assistant minister to save the country from overthrow.
Still relying on his protection and protection, he defeated and eliminated the chaos, so the court was stable and unified the world.
Just when he was about to rely on his assistant minister to renew and develop a great cause, he fell seriously ill and it seemed difficult to recover.
Rely on the instructions of the ancestors and gods, and entrust important tasks to those who are close to the wise.
Da Sima and King Langxie are the flesh and blood of the late emperor, with outstanding virtues. You are the heir apparent, and you are the one everyone expects.
I hope you will come to the Jin Kingdom, inherit the mission, govern the country carefully, and integrate the people of the world.
Implement my final warning and do not corrupt the great mission of our great ancestor. Send one day, ascend the throne of the emperor, and grant amnesty.
On the first day of the first month of spring in the first year of Yuanxi, the year name was changed.
Since Emperor An had not been buried yet, there was no court meeting.
Make Chu the queen. In the Sino-Japanese War, Liu Yu was summoned to return to the court.
On the 18th day of the 18th century, a comet appeared in the west of Taiwei Star Wall.
Gengshen buried Emperor An in Xiuping Mausoleum.
The emperor accepted worship and suspended instruments but did not play music.
Appointed hussar general Liu Daolian as Sikong.
In autumn and August, Liu Yu moved to Shouyang to guard.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
以刘怀慎为前将军、北徐州刺史，镇彭城。
九月，刘裕自解扬州。
冬十月乙酉，裕以其子桂阳公义真为扬州刺史。
十一月丁亥朔，日有蚀之。
十二月辛卯，裕加殊礼。
己卯，太史奏，黑龙四见于东方。
二年夏六月壬戌，刘裕至于京师。
傅亮承裕密旨，讽帝禅位，草诏，请帝书之。
帝欣然谓左右曰 晋氏久已失之，今复何恨 乃书赤纸为诏。
甲子，遂逊于琅邪第。
刘裕以帝为零陵王，居于秣陵，行晋正朔，车旗服色一如其旧，有其文而不备其礼。
帝自是之后，深虑祸机，褚后常在帝侧，饮食所资，皆出褚后，故宋人莫得伺其隙，宋永初二年九月丁丑，裕使后兄叔度请后，有间，兵人逾垣而入，弑帝于内房。
时年三十六。
谥恭皇帝，葬冲平陵。
translation: 
Liu Huaishen was appointed as the former general and governor of Northern Xuzhou to guard Pengcheng.
In September, Liu Yu voluntarily dismissed his post as governor of Yangzhou.
In Yiyou, the tenth month of winter, Liu Yu appointed his son Guiyang Gongyizhen as the governor of Yangzhou.
On the first day of November, Dinghai, there is a solar eclipse.
On Xinmao in December, Liu Yu was granted special treatment.
Ji Mao, according to Taishi, the black dragon appeared in the east four times.
In the summer and June of the second year of Renxu, Liu Yu arrived in the capital.
Following Liu Yu's secret instructions, Fu Liang persuaded Emperor Gong to abdicate, drafted the Shao Book, and asked Emperor Gong to write it.
Emperor Gong happily said to the people around him: The Jin family has lost the world a long time ago, so what are the regrets now?
So he wrote the edict on red paper. Jiazi, abdicated to the palace of King Langxie.
Liu Yu made Emperor Gong the king of Lingling and lived in Moling. According to the chronology of the Jin Dynasty, the colors of his vehicles, flags and clothing were all the same as before, but in reality it was no longer in name only.
From then on, Emperor Gong was worried about the coming disaster. Empress Chu was often by his side, and all the food and drink items were in his hands, so the people of Song Dynasty could not find an opportunity to attack. In September of the second year of Song Yongchu's reign, Liu Yu sent the queen's brother Shudu to invite the queen. After a while, the soldiers entered over the wall and killed Emperor Gong in the inner room.
He was thirty-six years old.
Mi was named Emperor Gong and was buried in Chongping Mausoleum.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
帝幼时性颇忍急，及在藩国，曾令善射者射马为戏。
既而有人云 马者国姓，而自杀之，不祥之甚 帝亦悟，甚悔之。
其后复深信浮屠道，铸货千万，造丈六金像，亲于瓦官寺迎之，步从十许里。
安帝既不惠，帝每侍左右，消息温凉寝食之节，以恭谨闻，时人称焉。
始，元帝以丁丑岁称晋王，置宗庙，使郭璞筮之，云 享二百年 。
自丁丑至禅代之岁，年在庚申，为一百四岁。
然丁丑始系西晋，庚申终入宋年，所馀惟一百有二岁耳。
璞盖以百二之期促，故婉而倒之为二百也。
史臣曰：安帝即位之辰，钟无妄之日，道子、元显并倾朝政，主昏臣乱，未有如斯不亡者也。
虽有手握戎麾，心存旧国，回首无良，忽焉萧散。
于是桓玄乘衅，势逾飙指，六师咸泯，只马徂迁。
是以宋高非典午之臣，孙恩岂金行之寇。
若乃世遇颠覆，则恭皇斯甚。
於越之民，讵熏丹穴，会稽之侣，宁叹入臣。
去皇屋而归来，洒丹书而不恨。
translation: 
When the emperor was young, he was cruel and impetuous. Later, when he was a feudal country, he once let those who were good at archery shoot horses as a game.
Soon someone said: "Ma is the surname of the country, but it would be unlucky to kill the horse yourself." Emperor Gong also woke up and regretted what he had done.
From then on, he believed deeply in Buddhism. He cast tens of thousands of coins together and made a bronze statue one foot six feet high. He went to Waguan Temple to welcome him in person and followed him on foot for more than ten miles.
Emperor An was an idiot, and Emperor Gong often served him, taking care of his daily life and food. He was famous for his courtesy, and people at that time praised him.
At the beginning, when Emperor Yuan was proclaimed King of Jin in the year of Ding Chou and established the ancestral temple, he asked Guo Pu to hold the zodiac, saying that he would enjoy it for two hundred years.
The year from Ding Chou to the Zen Dynasty was the year of Gengshen, which was exactly one hundred and four years.
But Ding Chou began to have the Western Jin Dynasty, and Geng Shen became the Song Dynasty, and there were only one hundred and two years left in between.
Guo Pu probably said that one hundred and two years was too short, so he euphemistically said it was two hundred years.
Shi Chen said: The period when Emperor An came to the throne was a period of intense war and chaos. Daozi and Yuan were in power, the monarch was mediocre and his ministers violated the law. How could the country not be destroyed in this way?
Even if they had soldiers and horses in their hands and thought of their homeland and court in their hearts, they would suddenly disperse because they could not see the virtuous people when they looked around.
So Huanxuan took advantage of this opportunity, and the momentum surpassed that of the violent wind, and all six armies were wiped out, and the emperor went into exile.
Therefore, Zhitan of Song Dynasty was not a minister of the Sima clan, but Semo was an enemy of Zhushi.
As for the overthrow of the dynasty, Emperor Fu Gong would be the most unfortunate.
How could the people in Shimai go to the Yandan Cave? How could the people at the foot of Kuaiji Mountain lament that they were other people's subjects?
He left the palace and returned to his old home, writing edicts on red paper without regrets.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
夫五运攸革，三微数尽，犹高秋彫候，理之自然。
观其摇落，人有为之流涟者也。
赞曰：安承流湎，大盗斯张。
恭乃寓命，他人是纲。
犹存周赧，始立怀王。
虚尊假号，异术同亡。
translation: 
The alternation of the five fortunes between heaven and earth, and the end of the three positive years, are like the withering away of all things in late autumn, which is a natural principle.
Some people will cry when they see Jin already falling to pieces.
Zan said: Emperor An inherited the unruly national destiny, and the thieves took advantage of the situation and became rampant.
Emperor Gong was temporarily ordered to do so, and the matter was decided by others.
Just like retaining King Nan of Zhou, but replacing him with King Huai of Chu.
False honors and titles, different methods but the same destruction.


