Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 6, 19, 22, 23]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
◎安帝恭帝安皇帝讳德宗，字德宗，孝武帝长子也。太元十二年八月辛巳，立为皇太子。二十一年九月庚申，孝武帝崩。
辛酉，太子即皇帝位，大赦。
癸亥，以司徒、会稽王道子为太傅，摄政。
冬十月甲申，葬孝武皇帝于隆平陵。
大雪。
隆安元年春正月己亥朔，帝加元服，改元，增文武位一等。
太傅、会稽王道子稽首归政。
以尚书左仆射王珣为尚书令，领军将军王国宝为尚书左仆射。
二月，吕光将秃发乌孤自称大都督、大单于，国号南凉。
击光将窦苟于金昌，大破之。
甲寅，尊皇太后李氏为太皇太后。
戊午，立皇后王氏。
三月，吕光子纂为乞伏乾归所败。
光建康太守段业自号凉州牧。
慕容宝败魏师于蓟。
夏四月甲戌，兖州刺史王恭，豫州刺史庾楷举兵，以讨尚书左仆射王国宝、建威将军王绪为名。
甲申，杀国宝及绪以悦于恭，恭乃罢兵。
戊子，大赦。
translation: 
Emperor An's name was Dezong and his courtesy name was Dezong. He was the eldest son of Emperor Xiaowu. In August of the twelfth year of Taiyuan, Xin Si was established as the crown prince. In September of the 21st year of Gengshen, Emperor Xiaowu passed away.
Xin You, the crown prince becomes the emperor and offers amnesty to the whole world.
In Guihai, Situ and Prince Daozi of Kuaiji were appointed as Taifus to act as agents of the government.
In Jiashen, the tenth month of winter, Emperor Xiaowu was buried in Longping Mausoleum.
It's snowing heavily.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Long'an, the emperor was crowned, his reign title was changed, and a first-class official rank was added to the civil and military officials.
Taifu and King Daozi of Kuaiji returned to power.
Appoint Shangshu Zuopushe Wang Xie as Shangshu Ling, and the leading general Wang Guobao as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In February, Lu Guang's general Wu Gu called himself the Great Governor and the Great Chanyu, and his country was named Nanliang.
In Jinchang, he attacked Lu Guang's general Dou Gou and defeated his army.
In the third month of Jiayin, the Empress Dowager Li was honored as the Empress Dowager.
On Wuwu day, Wang was made queen.
Lu Guang's son Lu Zuan was defeated by Qifu Qiangui.
Lu Guang's subordinate Duan Ye, the prefect of Jiankang, named himself Liangzhou Mu.
Murong Shi Ji defeated the Wei army.
In the fourth month of the summer, Jiaxu, Wang Gong, the governor of Yanzhou, and Yu Kai, the governor of Yuzhou, raised troops in the name of attacking Shangshu Zuopushe Wang Guobao and Jianwei general Wang Xu.
Jiashen killed the national treasure and Wang Xulai to please Wang Gong, and Wang Gong stopped his troops.
Wuzi, amnesty to the world.

summary:
summary line 0: Emperor An, named Dezong, was the eldest son of Emperor Xiaowu. He was established as crown prince in 387 and ascended the throne in 396 after his father's death, granting amnesty to the empire. He appointed Prince Daozi of Kuaiji as regent. During his reign, numerous rebellions and military conflicts occurred across the realm. Various warlords declared themselves rulers, including Wu Gu who founded Southern Liang, and Duan Ye who proclaimed himself Liangzhou Mu. Wang Gong and Yu Kai raised troops against officials Wang Guobao and Wang Xu, leading to their executions to appease the rebels.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
五月，前司徒长史王廞以吴郡反，王恭讨平之。
慕容宝将慕容详僭即皇帝位于中山，宝奔黄龙。
秋八月，吕光为其仆射杨轨、散骑常侍郭黁所攻，光子纂击走之。
九月，慕容宝将慕容麟斩慕容详于中山，因僭即皇帝位。
冬十月，慕容麟为魏师所败。
二年春三月，龙舟二灾。
夏五月，兰汗弑慕容宝而自称大将军、昌黎王。
秋七月，慕容宝子盛斩兰汗，僭称长乐王，摄天子位。
兖州刺史王恭、豫州刺史庾楷、荆州刺史殷仲堪、广州刺史桓玄、南蛮校尉杨佺期等举兵反。
八月，江州刺史王愉奔于临川。
丙子，宁朔将军邓启方及慕容德将慕容法战于管城，王师败绩。
丙戌，慕容盛僭即皇帝位于黄龙。
桓玄大败王师于白石。
九月辛卯，加太傅、会稽王道子黄钺。
遣征虏将军会稽王世子元显、前将军王珣、右将军谢琰讨桓玄等。
己亥，破庾楷于牛渚。
丙午，会稽王道子屯中堂，元显守石头。
己酉，前将军王珣守北郊，右将军谢琰备宣阳门。
辅国将军刘牢之次新亭，使子敬宣击败恭，恭奔曲阿长塘湖，湖尉收送京师，斩之。
于是遣太常殷茂喻仲堪及玄，玄等走于寻阳。
冬十月，新野言驺虞见。
translation: 
In May, former Situ Chief Shi Wangchang rebelled in Wu County, but Wang Gong conquered him and put him down.
Murong Shi's general Murong Xiang ascended the throne as the pseudo-emperor in Zhongshan, and Murong Bao fled to Huanglong.
In the eighth month of autumn, Lu Guang was attacked by his servant She Yang Gui and his Sanqi Changshi Guo Mo. Lu Guang's son Lu Zuan defeated them.
In September, Murong Shi's general Murong Lin beheaded Murong Xiang in Zhongshan, and then ascended the throne as the pseudo-emperor.
In October of winter, Murong Lin was defeated by the Wei army.
In the spring and March of the second year, the dragon boat caught fire twice.
In the fifth month of summer, Lan Khan killed Murong Shi and proclaimed himself the general and the king of Changli.
In the seventh month of autumn, Murong Bao's son Murong Sheng beheaded Lan Khan and assumed the title of King of Changle, taking over the throne of emperor.
Wang Gong, the governor of Yanzhou, Yu Kai, the governor of Yuzhou, Yin Zhongkan, the governor of Jingzhou, Huan Xuan, the governor of Guangzhou, and Yang Quanqi, the Nanman captain, rebelled.
In August, Wang Yu, the governor of Jiangzhou, fled and arrived.
In Bingzi, Ning Shuo's general Deng Qifang fought with Murong De's general Murong Fa in Guancheng, and Wang's division was defeated.
In Bingxu, Murong Sheng usurped the throne in Huanglong and called himself emperor.
Huan Xuan defeated Wang Shi in Baishi.
On Xinmao in the ninth month, Huang Tie, the Taifu and Prince Daozi of Kuaiji, was added.
He sent the conquest general Yuan Xian, the eldest son of King Kuaiji, the former general Wang Shi, and the right general Xie Yan to attack Huan Xuan and others.
Jihai defeated Yu Kai at Niuzhu.
On Bingwu, King Daozi of Kuaiji stationed troops in the middle hall, and Yuan Xian guarded the stone.
In Jiyou, the former general Wang died defending the northern suburbs, and the right general Xie Yan guarded Xuanyang Gate.
Liu Laozhi, the general of the auxiliary state, was stationed in Xinting and sent his son Jingxuan to defeat Wang Gong. Wang Gong fled to Changtang Lake in Qu'a. The lake captain arrested him and sent him to the capital, where he was beheaded.
So he sent Taichang Yin Maoxiao to inform Zhongkan and Huanxuan, and Huanxuan waited in Xunyang.
In October of winter, there were reports of the appearance of righteous beasts in Xinye.

summary:
summary line 1: The following years saw continued turmoil. Murong Xiang and Murong Lin successively claimed imperial titles. Wang Gong, Yu Kai, Yin Zhongkan, Huan Xuan, and Yang Quanqi rebelled. Huan Xuan defeated imperial forces at Baishi. The court sent Yuan Xian, Wang Shi, and Xie Yan to attack Huan Xuan and others. Liu Laozhi's son defeated Wang Gong, who was captured and beheaded. Huan Xuan became alliance leader. Tuoba Gui of Wei ascended the throne as Tianxing. Sun En, a demon thief, captured Kuaiji, killing several officials. The court sent Xie Yan and Liu Laozhi to repel him.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
十二月庚申，会稽王道子为桓玄所害。
曲赦广陵、彭城大逆以下。
二年春二月辛丑，建威将军刘裕破徐道覆于东阳。
乙卯，桓玄自称大将军。
丁巳，冀州刺史孙无终为桓玄所害。
夏四月癸巳朔，日有蚀之。
秋八月，玄又自号相国、楚王。
九月，南阳太守庾仄起义兵，为玄所败。
冬十一月壬午，玄迁帝于永安宫。
癸未，移太庙神主于琅邪国。
十二月壬辰，玄篡位，以帝为平固王。
辛亥，帝蒙尘于寻阳。
三年春二月，帝在寻阳。
庚寅夜，涛水入石头，漂杀人户。
乙卯，建武将军刘裕帅沛国刘毅、东海何无忌等举义兵。
丙辰，斩桓玄所署徐州刺史桓修于京口，青州刺史桓弘于广陵。丁巳，义师济江。
三月戊午，刘裕斩玄将吴甫之于江乘，斩皇甫敷于罗落。
己未，玄众溃而逃。
translation: 
In the 12th month of Gengshen, King Dao of Kuaiji was killed by Danxuan.
Special amnesty will be given to criminals in Guangling and Pengcheng who have committed crimes of treason and below.
In the spring and February of the second year of Xinchou, Jianwei general Liu Yu defeated Xu Daofu in Shuyang.
In Yimao, Huan Xuan called himself a general.
Ding Si, Sun Wu, the governor of Jizhou, was killed by Huan Xuan.
On the first day of the fourth lunar month in summer, there is a solar eclipse.
In the eighth month of autumn, Huan Xuan called himself Prime Minister and King of Chu.
September. Yu Ping, the prefect of Nanyang, raised an army but was defeated by Huan Xuan.
In Renwu, the eleventh month of winter, Huan Xuan moved the emperor to Yong'an Palace.
Guiwei moved the ancestral tablets wrapped in the Ancestral Temple to Langye Kingdom.
On Renchen in the twelfth month, Huan Xuan usurped the throne of emperor and made Zhou Yi the king of Pinggu.
In Xinhai, the emperor was imprisoned in Xunyang.
In the spring and February of the third year, Emperor An was in Xunyang.
On the night of Gengyin, the river poured into Huti, washing away property and drowning people.
On Yimao, Jianwu general Liu Yu led Liu Yi from Pei, He Wuji from Shuhai and others to raise troops.
In Bingchen, Dankai, the governor of Biezhu appointed by Danbao in Saidan, was killed, and Dancong, the governor of Yiye appointed by Danbao in Luzuo. At Dingsi, the rebel army crossed Kendou.
On Wuwu in the third month, Liu Yu took advantage of the situation and killed Huan Xuan's general Wu Fuzhi in Jiang, and killed Huang Zhisu in Shen.
Before long, Danxuan's tribe collapsed and fled.

summary:
summary line 2: In 402, Huan Xuan defeated the imperial army at Gushu. Liu Laozhi betrayed and surrendered to Huan Xuan. The imperial army was defeated at Xinting, with Prince Yuanxian of Kuaiji and others killed. Huan Xuan appointed himself to various high positions and moved Prince Daozi to Ancheng. In 403, Huan Xuan usurped the throne, making the emperor a prisoner in Xunyang. In 404, Liu Yu raised troops against Huan Xuan, defeating his forces. Huan Xuan fled with Emperor An but was eventually beheaded. The emperor returned to the capital.

Chunk 19: 
original: 
初谶云 昌明之后有二帝 ，刘裕将为禅代，故密使王韶之缢帝而立恭帝，以应二帝云。
恭帝讳德文，字德文，安帝母弟也。
初封琅邪王，历中军将军、散骑常侍、卫将军、开府仪同三司，加侍中，领司徒、录尚书六条事。
元兴初，迁车骑大将军。
桓玄执政，进位太宰，加衮冕之服，绿綟绶。
玄篡位，以帝为石阳县公，与安帝俱居寻阳。
及玄败，随至江陵。
玄死，桓振奄至，跃马奋戈，直至阶下，瞋目谓安帝曰 臣门户何负国家，而屠灭若是 帝乃下床谓振曰 此岂我兄弟意邪 振乃下马致拜。
振平，复为琅邪王，又领徐州刺史，寻拜大司马，领司徒，加殊礼。
义熙五年，置左右长史、司马、从事中郎四人，加羽葆鼓吹。
十二年，诏曰 大司马明德懋亲，太尉道勋光大，并徽序彝伦，燮和二气，髦俊引领，思佐鼎饪。
translation: 
There was a prophecy that there would be two emperors after the Ming Dynasty. Liu Yu wanted Sima to abdicate the throne and proclaim himself emperor, so he secretly sent Wang Shaozhi to hang Emperor An and establish Emperor Gong in order to fulfill the prophecy of the two emperors.
Emperor Gong's name was Dewen and his courtesy name was Dewen. He was the half-brother of Emperor An.
At first, he was granted the title of King Langxie, and he successively served as General of the Central Army, Changshi of Sanqi, General of Wei, and Kaifu Yitong. He was also granted the title of Shizhong, and concurrently served as Situ and Lu Shangshu.
At the beginning of the Yuan Dynasty, he was promoted to the general of chariots and cavalry.
After Huanxuan came to power, he was promoted to Dazai, and was awarded the ceremonial dress of Gongyi, crown, and green ribbon.
After Huanxuan usurped the throne, he appointed the emperor as the Duke of Shiyang County and lived in Xunyang with Emperor An.
When Huan Xuan was defeated, he followed the defeated army to Jiangling.
After Huan Xuan died, Huan Zhen suddenly arrived, leaping on his horse and waving his arms, until he reached the steps and said to Emperor An with eyes wide open: "How could the Chen family be so sorry to the country that they were massacred like this?" The emperor then stepped down from the bed and said to Huan Zhen: "Is this what our brothers meant?" So Huan Zhen dismounted his horse and saluted.
After pacifying Huan Zhen, he became King Langxie again. He also served as the governor of Xuzhou, and soon became the Grand Sima and Situ, with special courtesy.
In the fifth year of Yixi's reign, a total of four subordinate officials including Chang Shi, Sima and Zhonglang were appointed, and they were awarded Yu Bao and Zhang Bu.
In the twelfth year, the edict said: The great Sima Zhaoxian's virtues made the royal family more prosperous, and the Taiwei's moral achievements were glorious. All of them made human ethics beautiful and orderly, and harmoniously blended the yin and yang. The talented people led and admired them and wanted to assist him in managing the affairs of the country.

summary:
summary line 3: Emperor An was described as unintelligent, unable to speak from childhood, incapable of distinguishing seasons or caring for himself. This explains why Huan Xuan did not kill him during the usurpation. A prophecy stated there would be two emperors after the Ming Dynasty. Liu Yu, wanting to claim the throne, secretly had Emperor An strangled in 418 at age thirty-seven, establishing Emperor Gong to fulfill the prophecy.

Chunk 22: 
original: 
以刘怀慎为前将军、北徐州刺史，镇彭城。
九月，刘裕自解扬州。
冬十月乙酉，裕以其子桂阳公义真为扬州刺史。
十一月丁亥朔，日有蚀之。
十二月辛卯，裕加殊礼。
己卯，太史奏，黑龙四见于东方。
二年夏六月壬戌，刘裕至于京师。
傅亮承裕密旨，讽帝禅位，草诏，请帝书之。
帝欣然谓左右曰 晋氏久已失之，今复何恨 乃书赤纸为诏。
甲子，遂逊于琅邪第。
刘裕以帝为零陵王，居于秣陵，行晋正朔，车旗服色一如其旧，有其文而不备其礼。
帝自是之后，深虑祸机，褚后常在帝侧，饮食所资，皆出褚后，故宋人莫得伺其隙，宋永初二年九月丁丑，裕使后兄叔度请后，有间，兵人逾垣而入，弑帝于内房。
时年三十六。
谥恭皇帝，葬冲平陵。
translation: 
Liu Huaishen was appointed as the former general and governor of Northern Xuzhou to guard Pengcheng.
In September, Liu Yu voluntarily dismissed his post as governor of Yangzhou.
In Yiyou, the tenth month of winter, Liu Yu appointed his son Guiyang Gongyizhen as the governor of Yangzhou.
On the first day of November, Dinghai, there is a solar eclipse.
On Xinmao in December, Liu Yu was granted special treatment.
Ji Mao, according to Taishi, the black dragon appeared in the east four times.
In the summer and June of the second year of Renxu, Liu Yu arrived in the capital.
Following Liu Yu's secret instructions, Fu Liang persuaded Emperor Gong to abdicate, drafted the Shao Book, and asked Emperor Gong to write it.
Emperor Gong happily said to the people around him: The Jin family has lost the world a long time ago, so what are the regrets now?
So he wrote the edict on red paper. Jiazi, abdicated to the palace of King Langxie.
Liu Yu made Emperor Gong the king of Lingling and lived in Moling. According to the chronology of the Jin Dynasty, the colors of his vehicles, flags and clothing were all the same as before, but in reality it was no longer in name only.
From then on, Emperor Gong was worried about the coming disaster. Empress Chu was often by his side, and all the food and drink items were in his hands, so the people of Song Dynasty could not find an opportunity to attack. In September of the second year of Song Yongchu's reign, Liu Yu sent the queen's brother Shudu to invite the queen. After a while, the soldiers entered over the wall and killed Emperor Gong in the inner room.
He was thirty-six years old.
Mi was named Emperor Gong and was buried in Chongping Mausoleum.

summary:
summary line 4: Emperor Gong, named Dewen, was Emperor An's half-brother. He had been enfeoffed as King of Langxie and held various positions including General of the Central Army and Grand Sima. After Huan Xuan's defeat, he returned to his former position. In 419, following Emperor An's death, Liu Yu issued a false edict proclaiming Emperor Gong's succession. In 420, following Liu Yu's instructions, Fu Liang persuaded Emperor Gong to abdicate. The emperor willingly complied, stating the Jin family had long lost the empire. He wrote the abdication edict on red paper. Liu Yu made him King of Lingling. In 422, Liu Yu sent soldiers who killed Emperor Gong in his inner chamber at age thirty-six.

Chunk 23: 
original: 
帝幼时性颇忍急，及在藩国，曾令善射者射马为戏。
既而有人云 马者国姓，而自杀之，不祥之甚 帝亦悟，甚悔之。
其后复深信浮屠道，铸货千万，造丈六金像，亲于瓦官寺迎之，步从十许里。
安帝既不惠，帝每侍左右，消息温凉寝食之节，以恭谨闻，时人称焉。
始，元帝以丁丑岁称晋王，置宗庙，使郭璞筮之，云 享二百年 。
自丁丑至禅代之岁，年在庚申，为一百四岁。
然丁丑始系西晋，庚申终入宋年，所馀惟一百有二岁耳。
璞盖以百二之期促，故婉而倒之为二百也。
史臣曰：安帝即位之辰，钟无妄之日，道子、元显并倾朝政，主昏臣乱，未有如斯不亡者也。
虽有手握戎麾，心存旧国，回首无良，忽焉萧散。
于是桓玄乘衅，势逾飙指，六师咸泯，只马徂迁。
是以宋高非典午之臣，孙恩岂金行之寇。
若乃世遇颠覆，则恭皇斯甚。
於越之民，讵熏丹穴，会稽之侣，宁叹入臣。
去皇屋而归来，洒丹书而不恨。
translation: 
When the emperor was young, he was cruel and impetuous. Later, when he was a feudal country, he once let those who were good at archery shoot horses as a game.
Soon someone said: "Ma is the surname of the country, but it would be unlucky to kill the horse yourself." Emperor Gong also woke up and regretted what he had done.
From then on, he believed deeply in Buddhism. He cast tens of thousands of coins together and made a bronze statue one foot six feet high. He went to Waguan Temple to welcome him in person and followed him on foot for more than ten miles.
Emperor An was an idiot, and Emperor Gong often served him, taking care of his daily life and food. He was famous for his courtesy, and people at that time praised him.
At the beginning, when Emperor Yuan was proclaimed King of Jin in the year of Ding Chou and established the ancestral temple, he asked Guo Pu to hold the zodiac, saying that he would enjoy it for two hundred years.
The year from Ding Chou to the Zen Dynasty was the year of Gengshen, which was exactly one hundred and four years.
But Ding Chou began to have the Western Jin Dynasty, and Geng Shen became the Song Dynasty, and there were only one hundred and two years left in between.
Guo Pu probably said that one hundred and two years was too short, so he euphemistically said it was two hundred years.
Shi Chen said: The period when Emperor An came to the throne was a period of intense war and chaos. Daozi and Yuan were in power, the monarch was mediocre and his ministers violated the law. How could the country not be destroyed in this way?
Even if they had soldiers and horses in their hands and thought of their homeland and court in their hearts, they would suddenly disperse because they could not see the virtuous people when they looked around.
So Huanxuan took advantage of this opportunity, and the momentum surpassed that of the violent wind, and all six armies were wiped out, and the emperor went into exile.
Therefore, Zhitan of Song Dynasty was not a minister of the Sima clan, but Semo was an enemy of Zhushi.
As for the overthrow of the dynasty, Emperor Fu Gong would be the most unfortunate.
How could the people in Shimai go to the Yandan Cave? How could the people at the foot of Kuaiji Mountain lament that they were other people's subjects?
He left the palace and returned to his old home, writing edicts on red paper without regrets.

summary:
summary line 5: As a youth, Emperor Gong had been cruel and impetuous, once shooting horses for sport until someone noted that "Ma" (horse) was the imperial surname, making such killing unlucky. He then regretted his actions and became a devout Buddhist, casting a bronze statue and personally escorting it to Waguan Temple. He was known for his courtesy in serving his brother Emperor An, caring for his daily needs.

