Chunk 0: 
original: 
张骞，汉中人也，建元中为郎。
时，匈奴降者言匈奴破月氏王，以其头为饮器，月氏遁而怨匈奴，无与共击之。
汉方欲事灭胡，闻此言，欲通使，道必更匈奴中，乃募能使者。
骞以郎应募，使月氏，与堂邑氏奴甘父俱出陇西。
径匈奴，匈奴得之，传诣单于。
单于曰： 月氏在吾北，汉何以得往使？
吾欲使越，汉肯听我乎？
留骞十余岁，予妻，有子，然骞持汉节不失。
居匈奴西，骞因与其属亡乡月氏，西走数十日，至大宛。
大宛闻汉之饶财，欲通不得，见骞，喜，问欲何之。
骞曰： 为汉使月氏而为匈奴所闭道，今亡，唯王使人道送我。诚得至，反汉，汉之赂遗王财物不可胜言。
大宛以为然，遣骞，为发译道，抵康居。
康居传致大月氏。
大月氏王已为胡所杀，立其夫人为王。
既臣大夏而君之，地肥饶，少寇，志安乐。
又自以远远汉，殊无报胡之心。骞从月氏至大夏，竟不能得月氏要领。
留岁余，还，并南山，欲从羌中归，复为匈奴所得。
留岁余，单于死，国内乱，骞与胡妻及堂邑父俱亡归汉。
拜骞太中大夫，堂邑父为奉使君。
骞为人强力，宽大信人，蛮夷爱之。
堂邑父胡人，善射，穷急射禽兽给食。
初，骞行时百余人，去十三岁，唯二人得还。
translation: 
Zhang Qian was from Hanzhong. During the Jianyuan period, he was appointed as Lang Guan.
People who surrendered to the Xiongnu at that time said that the Xiongnu defeated the Yuezhi King and used the Yuezhi King's head as a drinking vessel. The Yuezhi fled and resented the Huns because they had no one to fight with them.
The Han Dynasty was planning to engage in a war to eliminate the Xiongnu. When they heard this, they wanted to send people as envoys to the Yuezhi. However, the Xiongnu Kingdom was the only way to go, so they recruited people who could go as envoys.
Zhang Qian was recruited as an envoy to Yuezhi as a Langguan. He left Longxi with Gan Fu, Tangyi's servant.
Passing by the Huns, he was intercepted by the Huns and sent to the Shanyu in a conveyor.
Shanyu said: The Yueshi are to the north of me. How can the Han Dynasty people send envoys there?
If I want to send someone as an envoy to South Vietnam, will the Han Dynasty let our people pass by?
Zhang Qian was detained for more than ten years. He married him and gave birth to a son. However, Zhang Qian still insisted on the Han Dynasty and still maintained his status as an envoy.
Because he lived in the western part of the Huns, Zhang Qian took the opportunity to lead his subordinates to flee towards the Yueshi. After running west for dozens of days, we arrived in Dawan.
Dawan heard that the Han Dynasty was rich in wealth and wanted to have contacts with the Han Dynasty but could not find the opportunity. He was very happy to see Zhang Qian and asked him where he was going.
Zhang Qian said: We were sent as an envoy to the Yuezhi on behalf of the Han Dynasty, but the Huns blocked the road and refused to allow passage. Now we are fleeing to your country. I hope that the king can send someone to lead the way and send us there. If we can reach the Yuezhi, after we return to the Han Dynasty, the property that the Han Dynasty will give to the king will be indescribable.
Dawan thought it was okay, so he sent them there and sent translators and guides for them.
They were sent to Kangju, who sent them to Dayuezhi in a conveyor.
At this time, the original King of Dayuezhi had been killed by the Xiongnu, and his wife was made king.
Da Yuezhi had made Daxia surrender and ruled over it.
The land there was fertile, the produce was abundant, there was no intrusion, and they felt relaxed and happy. They considered themselves far away from the Han Dynasty and did not want to get close to the Han Dynasty. They had no intention of revenge against the Huns. From Yuezhi to Daxia, Zhang Qian never received a clear statement from the Yuezhi King.
After staying for more than a year, I had to return. Along the Nanshan Mountains, I wanted to return to the Han Dynasty from the place where the Qiang people lived, but I was intercepted by the Xiongnu again.
After being detained for more than a year, it happened that the Chanyu died and the Xiongnu country was in chaos. Zhang Qian fled back to the Han Dynasty with his Hun wife and Tangyi Ganfu.
The imperial court granted him the official position of Taizhong Taifu, and Tangyi Ganfu also became the envoy.
Zhang Qian is strong and perseverant, magnanimous and sincere in his treatment of others. He is liked by ethnic minorities.
Tangyi's father was a Huns who was good at archery. When he was extremely poor, he shot animals for food.
At the beginning, there were more than a hundred people when Zhang Qian traveled. After thirteen years, only he and Tang Yi's father came back.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
骞身所至者，大宛、大月氏、大夏、康居，而传闻其旁大国五六，具为天子言其地形所有，语皆在《西域传》。
骞曰： 臣在大夏时，见邛竹杖、蜀布，问： 安得此？ 大夏国人曰： 吾贾人往市之身毒国。
身毒国在大夏东南可数千里。
其俗土著，与大夏同，而卑湿暑热。
其民乘象以战。其国临大水焉。 以骞度之，大夏去汉万二千里，居西南。
今身毒又居大夏东南数千里，有蜀物，此其去蜀不远矣。
今使大夏，从羌中，险，羌人恶之；少北，则为匈奴所得；从蜀，宜径，又无寇。
天子既闻大宛及大夏、安息之属皆大国，多奇物，土著，颇与中国同俗，而兵弱，贵汉财物；其北则大月氏、康居之属，兵强，可以赂遗设利朝也。
诚得而以义属之，则广地万里，重九译，致殊俗，威德遍于四海。
天子欣欣以骞言为然。
乃令因蜀犍为发间使，四道并出：出駹，出莋，出徙、邛，出僰，皆各行一二千里。
其北方闭氐、莋，南方闭巂、昆明。
昆明之属无君长，善寇盗，辄杀略汉使，终莫得通。
然闻其西可千余里，有乘象国，名滇越，而蜀贾间出物者或至焉，于是汉以求大夏道始通滇国。
初，汉欲通西南夷，费多，罢之。
及骞言可以通大夏，乃复事西南夷。
骞以校尉从大将军击匈奴，知水草处，军得以不乏，乃封骞为博望侯。
translation: 
Zhang Qian had personally visited places such as Dayuan, Dayuezhi, Daxia, Kangju and other countries. He heard that there were five or six big countries next to these countries. He told Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty one by one about the topography and products of these countries. The contents mentioned are all contained in "The Biography of the Western Regions".
Zhang Qian said: When I was in Daxia, I saw bamboo sticks from Qiong and fine cloth produced in Shu County. I asked them where they got them. The people of Daxia said: Our merchants bought them from the country of Shendu.
Shendu Country is located in the southeast of Daxia, about thousands of miles away.
The custom of Nahuo is to live a settled life, which is the same as that of Daxia, but the terrain is low-lying, humid, and the climate is hot.
People there rode elephants to fight, and the country was bordered by floods. According to my guess, Daxia was about 12,000 miles away from the Han Dynasty and to the southwest of the Han Dynasty.
Now Shendu is thousands of miles southeast of Daxia, and there are products from Shu County. It seems that Shendu is not far from Shu.
It is very dangerous for the envoy to Daxia to pass through the Qiang area. The Qiang people hate the Han Dynasty. If you go a little north, you will be captured by the Huns. If you go from Shu County, it will be a convenient road and there will be no intrusion.
Emperor Mowu heard that Dayuan, Daxia, Parthia and other countries were big countries with many strange products and lived a settled life, which was the same as the customs of the Han Dynasty. However, the military strength is very weak and they value the property of the Han Dynasty. To the north are the Dayuezhi, Kangju and other countries, which have strong military strength. They can be lured to come to see the Emperor of Han by giving them property and benefits.
If we can really do this and use moral power to make them join the Han Dynasty, then the Han Dynasty can expand its territory by more than 10,000 miles. People from some ethnic groups who come to the court will have to go through multiple translations to understand the language. Some ethnic minorities with strange customs will also come to join the Han Dynasty. The prestige and virtue of the Han Dynasty will spread all over the world.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was very happy and thought Zhang Qian's words made sense.
So he ordered envoys to be sent to explore the road through Shu County and Jianwei County, and they set off in four groups at the same time. Starting from Ranchi all the way, starting from Jedudu all the way, starting from Yiheqiong all the way, and starting from Fen all the way, each has a distance of one or two thousand miles.
However, the northern passage was blocked by the clans and Jeduyi, and the southern passage was blocked by Ling and Kunming.
Kunming and other ethnic minorities have no rulers and are good at plundering and stealing. Every time they killed passing Han envoys and took away their property, this road finally failed to open.
However, I heard that about a thousand miles west of Kunming, there is Chengxiang Kingdom, named Dianyue. Some businessmen from Shu County who privately trade goods have been there. So the Han Dynasty began to communicate with the Dian Kingdom in search of the road to Daxia.
At first, the Han Dynasty wanted to communicate with the southwestern barbarians, but stopped this work because it was too expensive.
When Zhang Qian said that it was possible to reach Daxia via the Southwest Yi, the Han Dynasty began to open up the route to the Southwest Yi.
Zhang Qian followed the general Wei Qing to attack the Huns as a captain. Because he knew where the water and grass were distributed, the army could not lack supplies, so he made Zhang Qian the Marquis of Bowang.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
是岁，元朔六年也。
后二年，骞为卫尉，与李广俱出右北平击匈奴。
匈奴围李将军，军失亡多，而骞后期当斩，赎为庶人。
是岁，骠骑将军破匈奴西边，杀数万人，至祁连山。
其秋，浑邪王率众降汉，而金城、河西并南山至盐泽，空无匈奴。
匈奴时有候者到，而希矣。
后二年，汉击走单于于幕北。
天子数问骞大夏之属。
骞既失侯，因曰： 臣居匈奴中，闻乌孙王号昆莫。
昆莫父难兜靡本与大月氏俱在祁连、敦煌间，小国也。
大月氏攻杀难兜靡，夺其地，人民亡走匈奴。
子昆莫新生，傅父布就翕侯抱亡置草中，为求食，还，见狼乳之，又乌衔肉翔其旁，以为神，遂持归匈奴，单于爱养之。
及壮，以其父民众与昆莫，使将兵，数有功。
时，月氏已为匈奴所破，西击塞王。
塞王南走远徙，月氏居其地。
昆莫既健，自请单于报父怨，遂西攻破大月氏。
大月氏复西走，徙大夏地。
昆莫略其众，因留居，兵稍强，会单于死，不肯复朝事匈奴。
匈奴遣兵击之，不胜，益以为神而远之。
今单于新困于汉，而昆莫地空。
蛮夷恋故地，又贪汉物，诚以此时厚赂乌孙，招以东居故地，汉遣公主为夫人，结昆弟，其势宜听，则是断匈奴右臂也。
既连乌孙，自其西大夏之属皆可招来而为外臣。
translation: 
This year is the sixth year of Yuanshuo, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
Two years later, Zhang Qian, as a guard, set out from Youbeiping with General Li Guang to fight against the Huns.
General Li was surrounded by the Xiongnu, and the Han army suffered heavy casualties. However, Zhang Qian arrived later than the agreed time and was punished by beheading according to military law. He used his property to redeem himself as a civilian.
This year, Husband General Huo Qubing defeated the Xiongnu in the west, killing tens of thousands as far as the Qilian Mountains.
In autumn, King Hunxie of the Xiongnu led his tribe to surrender to the Han Dynasty. As a result, the area from Jincheng, Hexi Corridor, along the Qilian Mountains to Yanze was empty of Xiongnu.
During the Xiongnu period, some scouts might come, but they were very few.
Two years later, the Han Dynasty defeated the Xiongnu Chanyu and rushed to Mobei.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty asked Zhang Qian many times about the situation in Daxia and other countries.
At this time, Zhang Qian had lost the title of Hou, so he replied: When I lived in the Xiongnu, I heard that King Wusun was named Kunmo.
Kunmo's father, Nan Doumi, originally lived in the Qilian Mountains and Dunhuang area with Da Yuezhi, which was a small country.
Dayuezhi attacked and killed Nandoumi and seized his land. The Wusun people fled to the Huns.
Nan Douli's son Kunmo was just born at that time. Fu's father Buju Linghou carried him and fled. On the way, he put him in the grass and went to find food for him. When he came back, he saw a wolf feeding him and a crow hovering next to him with meat in his mouth. He thought Kunmo was a god, so he embraced Kunmo and joined the Huns. The Chanyu liked him and raised him.
After Kunmo grew up, Shanyu returned his father's people to him and asked him to lead troops in war. Kunmo repeatedly made military exploits.
At that time, the Yuezhi had been defeated by the Xiongnu and attacked the king of Sai westward.
The King of Sai moved to distant places during his southern tour, and the Yuezhi people lived in the King of Sai's territory.
After Kunmo's strength grew, he personally asked Shan Yu for permission to avenge his father, and then went west to defeat the Dayue clan.
The Dayuezhi people fled west again and moved to the place where the Daxia people lived.
Kunmo plundered their people and stayed in the land of the Da Yueshi people. His army gradually became stronger, and just when the Xiongnu Chanyu died, he refused to enter the court to serve the Xiongnu again.
The Xiongnu sent troops to attack him but could not defeat him. They even thought Kunmo was a god and stayed away from him.
Now Shan Yu had just been defeated by the Han Dynasty and was in a difficult situation, and Kunmo's original place was uninhabited.
The ethnic minorities are attached to their homeland and are greedy for the property of the Han Dynasty. If we send more property to Wusun at this time to attract them to come to Shubian to live on their original land, and the Han Dynasty sends a princess to King Wusun as his wife, and the two parties form a brotherly relationship, based on the above analysis of the situation, Wusun will definitely listen to our suggestions, then it will be equivalent to cutting off the right arm of the Xiongnu.
By uniting with Wusun, Daxia and other countries west of Wusun can be recruited as your foreign ministers.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
天子以为然，拜骞为中郎将，将三百人，马各二匹，牛、羊以万数，赍金币帛直数千巨万，多持节副使，道可便遣之旁国。
骞既至乌孙，致赐谕指，未能得其决。
语在《西域传》。骞即分遣副使使大宛、康居、月氏、大夏。
乌孙发译道送骞，与乌孙使数十人，马数十匹。报谢，因令窥汉，知其广大。
骞还，拜为大行。
岁余，骞卒。
后岁余，其所遣副使通大夏之属者皆颇与其人俱来，于是西北国始通于汉矣。
然骞凿空，诸后使往者皆称博望侯，以为质于外国，外国由是信之。
其后，乌孙竟与汉结婚。
初，天子发书《易》，曰 神马当从西北来 。
得乌孙马好，名曰： 天马 。
及得宛汗血马，益壮，更名乌孙马曰 西极马 ，宛马曰 天马 云。
而汉始筑令居以西，初置酒泉郡，以通西北国。
因《益》发使抵安息、奄蔡、犛靬、条支、身毒国。
而天子好宛马，使者相望于道，一辈大者数百，少者百余人，所赍操，大放博望侯时。
其后益习而衰少焉。
汉率一岁中使者多者十余，少者五六辈，远者八九岁，近者数岁而反。
是时，汉既灭越，蜀所通西南夷皆震，请吏。
置牂柯、越巂、益州、沈黎、文山郡，欲地接以前通大夏。
乃遣使岁十余辈，出此初郡，皆复闭昆明，为所杀，夺币物。
于是汉发兵击昆明，斩首数万。
translation: 
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty believed that Zhang Qian was right, and awarded Zhang Qian the official position of Lieutenant General. He led 300 people, each with two horses, driving tens of thousands of cattle and sheep, carrying gold and gifts worth tens of millions, and many deputy envoys accompanying him on a mission to Wusun.
If the road is convenient, he will send deputy envoy Chijie to the country next to Wusun.
After Zhang Qian arrived at Wusun, he gave Emperor Wu's gifts to King Wusun and conveyed Emperor Wu's wishes, but failed to obtain a clear statement from King Wusun. The specific content is recorded in "The Biography of the Western Regions". Zhang Qian then sent deputy envoys to Dayuan, Kangju, Yuezhi and Daxia respectively.
King Wusun sent an interpreter and guide to escort Zhang Qian. Wusun envoys of dozens of people and dozens of horses followed Zhang Qian back to the Han Dynasty to thank Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty. They took the opportunity to let them inspect the situation of the Han Dynasty and understand the vastness of the Han Dynasty.
Zhang Qian returned to the Han Dynasty and was awarded a senior official.
More than a year later, Zhang Qian passed away.
More than a year later, most of the deputy envoys he sent to Tongdaxia and other countries returned to the Han Dynasty together with the envoys from these countries, and the northwest countries began to communicate with the Han Dynasty.
However, because Zhang Qian opened the way to the Western Regions, those who later went to the Western Regions as envoys followed Zhang Qian's example and were called Bowang Hou, in order to win the trust of foreign countries, and foreigners trusted them.
After that, King Wusun finally married Princess Xuan.
At the beginning, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty opened the Book of Changes for divination and said: The divine horse will come from the northwest.
He thought it was good to get the Wusun horse, so he named it Tianma.
When they got the Dawan Khan-blooded horse again, it was fatter and stronger than the Wusun horse, so they renamed the Wusun horse "Xijima" and the Dawan horse "Tianma".
In addition, the Han Dynasty began to build fortresses from Lingju to the west and established Jiuquan County to facilitate access to various countries in the Western Regions.
The Han Dynasty then sent additional envoys to Anxi, Yancai, Yaxuan, Tiaozhi, and Shendu countries.
Emperor Mowu liked Dayuan horses, and the envoys sent to the Western Regions met each other on the road. There were a large group of hundreds of people and a small group of more than a hundred people. The things they carried completely imitated the grand occasion of Zhang Qian, the Marquis of Bowang.
Later, as they became more familiar with the situation in the Western Regions, the number of envoys in each batch became smaller and smaller.
During the Han Dynasty, there were probably more than ten batches of envoys a year, and as few as five or six batches. They could travel back and forth as far away as eighty or nine years, and in recent years.
At this time, the Han Dynasty had destroyed South Vietnam, and the southwestern barbarians connected with Shu County were shocked. They asked the Han Dynasty to establish a rule there and send officials to govern it.
The Han Dynasty established the counties of Yangke, Yueling, Yizhou, Shenli, and Wenshan in the southwestern Yi. They wanted to use the method of setting up counties in the southwestern Yi to connect the land boundaries and lead to Daxia.
Therefore, the Han Dynasty sent more than ten batches of envoys every year from these newly established counties, but they were once again blocked by the Kunming barbarians. The envoys were killed and the gifts were robbed.
So the Han Dynasty sent troops to attack Kunming and beheaded tens of thousands.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
后复遣使，竟不得通。
语在《西南夷传》。
自骞开外国道以尊贵，其吏士争上书言外国奇怪利害，求使。
天子为其绝远，非人所乐，听其言，予节，募吏民无问所从来，为具备人众遣之，以广其道。
来还不能无侵盗币物，及使失指，天子为其习之，辄复按致重罪，以激怒令赎，复求使。
使端无穷，而轻犯法。
其吏卒亦辄复盛推外国所有，言大者予节，言小者为副，故妄言无行之徒皆争相效。
其使皆私县官赍物，欲贱市以私其利。
外国亦厌汉使人人有言轻重，度汉兵远，不能至，而禁其食物，以苦汉使。
汉使乏绝，责怨，至相攻击。
楼兰、姑师小国，当空道，攻劫汉使王恢等尤甚。而匈奴奇兵又时时遮击之。
使者争言外国利害，皆有城邑，兵弱易击。
于是天子遣从票侯破奴将属国骑及郡兵数万以击胡，胡皆去。
明年，击破姑师，虏楼兰王。
酒泉列亭障至玉门矣。
而大宛诸国发使随汉使来，观汉广大，以大鸟卵及犛靬眩人献于汉，天子大说。
而汉使穷河源，其山多玉石，采来，天子案古图书，名河所出山曰昆仑云。
translation: 
Later, envoys were sent, but they were unable to pass.
Details are contained in "The Biography of Southwest Yi".
Since Zhang Qian opened the road to the Western Regions and gained a distinguished status, those officials have been vying to write letters discussing the strangeness of foreign products and the interests of the envoys, requesting envoys.
Because the Western Regions were remote and far away, not everyone was willing to go there, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty accepted their words and gave them the talisman to go as envoys. He recruited officials and common people regardless of the identity and qualifications of the applicants. He prepared entourages for these people and sent them on their missions, thereby expanding the source of personnel for envoys to the Western Regions.
When these people came back, they would inevitably have plundered and stolen property, and they would have violated the will of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty when performing their missions. Because they were familiar with the situation in the Western Regions, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty would often examine them and punish them with serious crimes, so as to inspire them to work hard to atone for their sins and request to be sent to the Western Regions again.
There are endless reasons for sending envoys to the Western Regions, and they despise breaking the law.
Those officials often praised foreign products. Those who exaggerated to a greater extent were given talisman and were designated as chief envoys, and those who exaggerated to a lesser extent were designated as deputy envoys. Therefore, those who talk nonsense and those who have no good conduct are eager to imitate him.
Most of the envoys kept the gifts given by the emperor to the countries in the Western Regions for themselves, hoping to sell them at a lower price to make a profit.
Foreigners were also disgusted by the Han envoys who spoke untruthfully. They estimated that the Han army would not be able to reach the Han envoys because of the distance, so they cut off the food supply of the Han envoys, leaving them in a difficult situation.
The Han envoys lived in poverty, condemned and complained, and even attacked each other.
Small countries such as Loulan and Gushi were located on strategic transportation routes, and they were particularly powerful in attacking and plundering Han envoys such as Wang Hui, and the Xiongnu troops intercepted Han envoys from time to time.
The envoys argued that conquering these countries would be beneficial to the Han Dynasty, and not conquering them would be harmful to the Han Dynasty. These countries had cities, and their armies were weak and easy to attack.
So Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty sent Zhao Ponu, the Marquis of Piao, to lead tens of thousands of cavalry and troops from various counties in the Western Regions to attack the Xiongnu. All the Xiongnu soldiers fled.
The next year, Zhao Ponu defeated Gu Shi and captured King Loulan.
In the Han Dynasty, border posts were set up from Jiuquan County to Yumen Pass.
The Dawan countries sent envoys to follow the Han envoys to the Han Dynasty. Seeing the vastness of the Han Dynasty, they presented ostrich eggs and Yak Xuan magicians to the Han Dynasty. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was very happy.
The Han envoys exhausted the source of the Yellow River. There were many jade in the mountains there, and the Han envoys collected them and transported them back to the Han Dynasty. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty studied ancient maps and books and named the mountain where the Yellow River originates from Kunlun Mountain.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
是时，上方数巡狩海上，乃悉从外国客，大都多人则过之，散财帛赏赐，厚具饶给之，以览视汉富厚焉。
大角氐，出奇戏诸怪物，多聚观者，行赏赐，酒池肉林，令外国客遍观名各仓库府臧之积，欲以见汉广大，倾骇之。
及加其眩者之工，而角氐奇戏岁增变，其益兴，自此始。
而外国使更来更去。
大宛以西皆自恃远，尚骄恣，未可诎以礼羁縻而使也。
汉使往既多，其少从率进孰于天子，言大宛有善马在贰师城，匿不肯示汉使。
天子既好宛马，闻之甘心，使壮士车令等待千金及金马以请宛王贰师城善马。
宛国饶汉物，相与谋曰： 汉去我远，而盐水中数有败，出其北有胡寇，出其南乏水草，又且往往而绝邑，乏食者多。
汉使数百人为辈来，常乏食，死者过半，是安能致大军乎？
且贰师马，宛宝马也。
遂不肯予汉使。
汉使怒，妄言，椎金马而去。
宛中贵人怒曰： 汉使至轻我！
遣汉使去，令其东边郁成王遮攻，杀汉使，取其财物。
天子大怒。
诸尝使宛姚定汉等言： 宛兵弱，诚以汉兵不过三千人，强弩射之，即破宛矣。
天子以尝使浞野侯攻楼兰，以七百骑先至，虏其王，以定汉等言为然，而欲侯宠姬李氏，乃以李广利为将军，伐宛。
骞孙猛，字子游，有俊才，元帝时为光禄大夫，使匈奴，给事中，为石显所谮。自杀。
李广利，女弟李夫人有宠于上，产昌邑哀王。
translation: 
At this time, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty happened to visit the beach many times, and he was surrounded by foreign guests. They would pass through large cities or places with a large number of people, distribute property, cloth, and reward them, and prepare generous gifts for them to show the financial strength of the Han Dynasty.
They performed novelties such as big horns and strange plays, which attracted many onlookers and rewarded them generously. The foreign guests were allowed to see the accumulations in various warehouses of the Han Dynasty, hoping to show the vastness of the Han Dynasty and make them admire and be surprised by the power of the Han Dynasty.
As for increasing the skills of illusionists and increasing the number of tricks and tricks every year, their further rise began in the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
Moreover, foreign envoys continued to come and go in an endless stream.
The countries west of Dawan all considered themselves far away from the Han Dynasty and were still proud and indulgent. The Han Dynasty failed to make them surrender, so it maintained contact with them through courtesy exchanges and sent envoys to these countries.
There were many envoys from the Han Dynasty to the Western Regions. Those young envoys often used false words to encourage Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, saying that there were good horses in Ershi City in Dawan and they hid them so that the Han envoys would not see them.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty liked the Wan horse. After hearing about it, he wanted to get it. He sent his warriors and chariots to ask the King of Dayuan to give Ershi City a good horse with a thousand pieces of gold and a golden horse.
Dawan had a lot of property from the Han Dynasty. They discussed with each other: The Han Dynasty is far away from us, and people who pass through the salt marsh area often die. Passing from the north is harassed by the Xiongnu, and there is a lack of water and grass from the south. In addition, there are no cities along the way, and there is often a lack of food.
The Han sent a group of hundreds of people to come, and they often lacked food. More than half died. How could a large army be sent in such a situation?
Besides, the Ershima is Dawan’s BMW.
Finally, he refused to be envoyed to the Han Dynasty.
The envoy of the Han Dynasty was furious, cursed and ran away with broken vertebrae of the golden horse.
The nobles of Dayuan said angrily: The Han envoys despise us too much!
He ordered the Han envoys to leave Dayuan, and asked King Yu Cheng of Shubian to intercept them, kill the Han envoys and seize their belongings.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was furious.
Yao Dinghan and others who had been on an envoy to Dayuan said: Dayuan's soldiers are weak. If nearly three thousand Han troops are used to shoot at them with strong bows and powerful crossbows, they can be defeated.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty had sent Zhao Ponu, the Marquis of Zhao Ye, to attack Loulan, and arrived at Loulan with 700 cavalry first and captured the King of Loulan. Therefore, he thought that what Yao Dinghan and others said was reasonable, and wanted to make the brother of his favorite concubine, Mrs. Li, a marquis, so he appointed Li Guangli as his general to attack Dayuan.
Zhang Qian's grandson Zhang Meng, also known as Ziyou, was quite intelligent. During the Yuan Dynasty, he was the official of Guanglu. He served as an envoy to the Huns and was promoted to Shizhong. He was framed by Shi Xian and committed suicide.
Li Guangli's sister, Mrs. Li, was favored by the emperor and gave birth to King Ai of Changyi.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
太初元年，以广利为贰师将军，发属国六千骑及郡国恶少年数万人以往，期至贰师城取善马，故号 贰师将军 。
故浩侯王恢使道军。
既西过盐水，当道小国各坚城守，不肯给食，攻之不能下。
下者得食，不下者数日则去。
比至郁成，士财有数千，皆饥罢。
攻郁成城，郁成距之，所杀伤甚众。
贰师将军与左右计： 至郁成尚不能举，况至其王都乎？
引而还。
往来二岁，至敦煌，士不过什一二。
使使上书言： 道远，多乏食，且士卒不患战而患饥。
人少，不足以拔宛。
愿且罢兵，益发而复往。
天子闻之，大怒，使使遮玉门关，曰： 军有敢入，斩之。
贰师恐，因留屯敦煌。
其夏，汉亡浞野之兵二万余于匈奴，公卿议者皆愿罢宛军，专力攻胡。
天子业出兵诛宛，宛小国而不能下，则大夏之属渐轻汉，而宛善马绝不来，乌孙、轮台易苦汉使，为外国笑。
乃案言伐宛尤不便者邓光等。
赦囚徒扞寇盗，发恶少年及边骑，岁余而出敦煌六万人，负私从者不与。
牛十万，马三万匹，驴、橐驼以万数赍粮，兵弩甚设。
天下骚动，转相奉伐宛，五十余校尉。
宛城中无井，汲城外流水，于是遣水工徙其城下水空以穴其城。
translation: 
In the first year of Taichu, Guangli was appointed as the general of the Second Division. He led six thousand cavalry from the vassal state and tens of thousands of young men with bad conduct from the county. He used these troops to attack Dawan. He expected to capture good horses from the city of the Second Division, so he was called "General of the Second Division".
Wang Hui, the former Haohou, led the army and served as a guide.
The troops of the General of the Second Division had already encountered Yanyan to the west. The small countries along the route were in panic and tightly defended their castles. They did not supply the Han army with food and could not be defeated.
Those who can be captured will have food to eat, and those who cannot be captured will have to leave in a few days.
By the time they reached Yucheng, there were only a few thousand soldiers left, and they were all hungry and tired.
They attacked Yucheng City and were defeated, with many casualties.
The general of the Second Division discussed with his left and right: We can't capture it until Yucheng, let alone the capital of King Dawan?
Just retreat with the troops.
It took two years of traveling back and forth. When we returned to Dunhuang, only one-tenth of the soldiers were left.
He sent an envoy to write a memorial to the emperor saying: The journey is long and there is a shortage of food. The soldiers were not afraid of war, but of starvation.
With few troops, Wan cannot be captured.
I hope to withdraw the troops temporarily and send more troops before going back.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty heard what had been reported, he became furious and sent envoys to guard Yumen Pass, saying that if any soldier dared to enter the pass, he would be killed immediately!
General Li Guangli of the Second Division was afraid and stayed in Dunhuang.
In the summer of that year, the Han Dynasty fought against the Xiongnu, and the soldiers of the Hou Po Nu were killed by more than 20,000 people. After discussion, senior officials of the Han Dynasty hoped to call back the troops that attacked Dawan and focus on dealing with the Xiongnu.
However, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty believed that since he had sent troops to attack Dayuan, if a small country like Dayuan could not defeat it, countries like Daxia would gradually look down on the Han Dynasty, and the good horses from Dayuan would be stopped from coming to the Han Dynasty. Countries such as Wusun and Luntai would also make it difficult for the Han Dynasty's envoys, and they would laugh at foreign countries.
So Deng Guang and others were punished for discussing that the attack on Dawan was particularly inappropriate.
The prisoner soldiers were pardoned, and the young men with bad conduct and the cavalry on the border were sent to the army. After more than a year, 60,000 troops were sent from Dunhuang, not counting those who personally brought food and followed the troops to fight.
This team contains 100,000 cattle, 30,000 horses, and tens of thousands of donkeys and camels.
They brought plenty of food and were well equipped with weapons, bows and arrows. The whole country was in turmoil, and supplies were supplied one after another for the expedition to Dawan. A total of more than fifty officers of the army went out for the expedition.
There were no wells in the capital of Dawan, so water had to be brought in from outside the city. So the Mo army sent water control craftsmen to divert the water from the city to prevent it from flowing under the city. Instead, they diverted the water into holes and attacked the city with water.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
益发戍甲卒十八万酒泉、张掖北，置居延、休屠以卫酒泉。
而发天下七科適，及载糒给贰师，转车人徒相连属至敦煌。
而拜习马者二人为执驱马校尉，备破宛择取其善马云。
于是贰师后复行，兵多，所至小国莫不迎，出食给军。
至轮台，轮台不下，攻数日，屠之。
自此而西，平行至宛城，兵到者三万。
宛兵迎击汉兵，汉兵射败之，宛兵走入保其城。
贰师欲攻郁成城，恐留行而令宛益生诈，乃先至宛，决其水原，移之，则宛固已忧困。
围其城，攻之四十余日。
其外城坏，虏宛贵人勇将煎靡。
今杀王而出善马，汉兵宜解；即不，乃力战而死，未晚也。
宛贵人皆以为然，共杀王。
持其头，遣人使贰师，约曰： 汉无攻我，我尽出善马，恣所取，而给汉军食。
即不听我，我尽杀善马，康居之救又且至。
至，我居内，康居居外，与汉军战。
孰计之，何从？
是时，康居候视汉兵尚盛，不敢进。
贰师闻宛城中新得汉人知穿井，而其内食尚多。
计以为来诛首恶者毋寡，毋寡头已至，如此不许，则坚守，而康居候汉兵罢来救宛，破汉军必矣。
军吏皆以为然，许宛之约。
宛乃出其马，令汉自择之，而多出食食汉军。
汉军取其善马数十匹，中马以下牝牡三千余匹，而立宛贵人之故时遇汉善者名昧蔡为宛王，与盟而罢兵，终不得入中城，罢而引归。
translation: 
The Han Dynasty also sent an additional 180,000 soldiers to garrison north of Jiuquan and Zhangye, and established two new counties, Juyan and Xiutu, to protect Jiuquan.
And the Qikeshi of the world were sent out, and dry food was carried to supply the generals of the second division, and people were driven to Dunhuang in an endless stream.
Two people who knew how to look at horses were appointed as horse captains, preparing to select good horses after Dawan was conquered.
At this time, the general of the Second Division went out for the second time. The team was huge. Every small country along the way welcomed him and provided food to support the army.
When they arrived at Luntai, they refused to surrender. They fought for several days and bloodbathed them.
From then on, he marched westward and arrived at the capital of Dawan. Thirty thousand desert soldiers arrived.
The Wan army fought against the Han army, but the Han army defeated them. The Wan army fled to the castle and relied on the city walls to defend it.
The troops of the General of the Second Division originally wanted to advance and attack Yucheng City first, but they were afraid that the army would be delayed and the Dawan people would resort to deception, so they attacked Dawan City first, cut off their water sources, and changed their flow. Even if Dawan held on, they would be very worried and embarrassed.
He surrounded the city of Dawan and attacked it for more than forty days.
Their senior officials discussed with each other: The reason why the Han Dynasty came to attack Dawan was because our king Wuwu hid his good horse and killed the Han Dynasty envoy.
If the king is killed and his horse is taken out, the siege of the desert army will be relieved; even if it is not solved, it is not too late to fight and die.
The senior officials of Dayuan all believed that this was the right thing to do, and they jointly killed King Wuwi of Wan.
Its outer city was destroyed, and the Dawan noble general Jian Mi was captured. The Dawan people were greatly shocked and fled to defend the central city. They discussed with each other: The reason why the Han came to attack Wan was because the king was widowed. He took his head and sent someone to see the general of the second division and made an appointment: "The Han army will not attack us. We will take out all the good horses for you to choose and provide you with food."
If you don't obey, we will kill all the good horses, and Kang Ju's reinforcements will arrive soon.
As soon as we arrived, our Wan soldiers were inside the city, and Kang Ju's reinforcements were outside the city, fighting together with the Han army.
The Han army should think carefully about what to do?
At this time, Detective Kang Ju was spying on the desert soldiers, but the Han soldiers were still very strong and did not dare to attack.
General Ershi heard that Han people had recently been found in Dawan City, and they knew how to draw water from wells, and there was plenty of food in the city.
Considering that the reason why we are here is to kill the culprit, King Wuwu of Wan, and Wuwu's head has already arrived, and this does not allow us to break the siege, then they will hold on, and Kang Ju will wait until the Han army is tired to come to the rescue of Dayuan, then defeating the Han army is inevitable.
The officers all thought it was right and accepted Dawan's promise.
The Dawan people released their good horses and let the Han soldiers choose among themselves. They also provided a lot of grain to feed the Han soldiers.
The Han army selected dozens of good horses, including more than three thousand stallions and mares of medium and below average. Among the senior officials of Liduan, Meicai, who had been friendly to the Han people in the past, was appointed as the king of Dawan. They made an alliance with him and then withdrew the troops. Finally, they were not allowed to enter the inner city of Dawan, so they ended the war and withdrew their troops.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
初，贰师起孰煌西，为人多，道上国不能食，分为数军，从南北道。
校尉王申生、故鸿胪壶充国等千余人别至郁成，城守不肯给食。
申生去大军二百里，负而轻之，攻郁成急。
郁成窥知申生军少，晨用三千人攻杀申生等，数人脱亡，走贰师。
贰师令搜粟都尉上官桀往攻破郁成，郁成降。其王亡走康居，桀追至康居。
康居闻汉已破宛，出郁成王与桀，桀令四骑士缚守诣大将军。
四人相谓 郁成，汉所毒，今生将，卒失大事。
欲杀，莫適先击。
上邽骑士赵弟拔剑击斩郁成王。
桀等遂追及大将军。
初，贰师后行，天子使使告乌孙大发兵击宛。
乌孙发二千骑往，持两端，不肯前。
贰师将军之东，诸所过小国闻宛破，皆使其子弟从入贡献，见天子，因为质焉。
军还，入玉门者万余人，马千余匹。
后行，非乏食，战死不甚多，而将吏贪，不爱卒，侵牟之，以此物故者众。
天子为万里征伐，不录其过，乃下诏曰： 匈奴为害久矣，今虽徙幕北，与旁国谋共要绝大月氏使，遮杀中郎将江、故雁门守攘。
危须以西及大宛皆合约杀期门车令、中郎将朝及身毒国使，隔东西道。
贰师将军广利征讨厥罪，伐胜大宛。
赖天之灵，从溯河山，涉流沙，通西海，山雪不积，士大夫径度，获王首虏，珍怪之物毕陈于阙。
其封广利为海西侯，食邑八千户。
又封斩郁成王者赵弟为新畤侯；军正赵始成功最多，为光禄大夫；上官桀敢深入，为少府；李哆有计谋，为上党太守。
军官吏为九卿者三人，诸侯相、郡守、二千石百余人，千石以下千余人。
奋行者官过其望，以適过行者皆黜其劳。
士卒赐直四万钱。
伐宛再反，凡四岁而得罢焉。
后十一岁，征和三年，贰师复将七万骑出五原，击匈奴，度郅居水。
兵败，降匈奴，为单于所杀。
translation: 
When the general of the Second Division sent troops to Dunhuang to march westward, he thought that because of the large number of people, the countries along the route would not be able to supply food, so he divided into several teams and advanced from the north and south.
Wang Shensheng, the school captain, and Hu Chongguo, the former Dahonglu, led a team of more than a thousand people to Yucheng. Yucheng held fast to the castle and refused to provide them with food.
Wang Shensheng's army was two hundred miles away from General Ershi's main force. He relied on the large army but despised the opponent and rushed to attack Yucheng.
Yu Chengren learned through spying that Wang Shensheng's troops were small, so he launched an attack with 3,000 troops one morning and killed Wang Shensheng and others. The army was defeated. Only a few people escaped and ran to the general of the Second Division.
The general of the Second Division ordered Lieutenant Sou Su to go to Gong Jie to attack Yu Cheng. Yu Cheng surrendered. King Yu Cheng fled to Kang Ju State, and Shangguan Jie pursued him to Kang Ju State.
When the people of Kangju heard that the Han army had defeated Dayuan, they handed over King Yu Cheng to Shangguan Jie. Shangguan Jie sent four knights to tie him up, guard him and escort him to the general Li Guangli.
The four people discussed with each other and said: King Yu Cheng is hated by the Han Dynasty. If he is sent alive, he is afraid that an accident will happen suddenly and the event will be delayed.
If you want to kill, no one dares to make the first move.
Shangzou's knight, Tandei, drew his sword and struck, beheading King Yu Cheng.
Shangguan Jie and others caught up with the general's large army of the Second Division.
At the beginning, General Li Guangli of the Second Division sent troops for the last time, and the emperor sent an envoy to notify the Wusun Kingdom, asking it to send troops to join forces with the Mo army to attack Wan.
Wusun sent two thousand cavalry to wait and see, not daring to step forward.
The troops of the General of the Second Division returned eastward in triumph. The small countries they passed through heard that Dawan had been conquered, and they all sent their sons to follow the Han army to pay tribute and meet the emperor as hostages.
The army returned, and more than 10,000 people entered Yumen Pass, with more than 1,000 horses.
During the last march of the Second Division General, the army was not short of food and the sacrifices could not be counted as many, but the generals were greedy for money and most of them did not care for the soldiers and embezzled the military pay, so many died.
Because the emperor traveled thousands of miles to conquer Dayuan, he did not blame them for their mistakes, so he issued an edict saying: The Huns have been causing harm for a long time. Although they have now moved to Mobei, they conspired with other countries to intercept the envoys of the Dayue clan, intercepted and killed Zhonglang Jiang and the former Yanmen prefect.
To the west of the Wei Xu Kingdom and Dawan, there were contracts to kill Qi Men Che Ling, Zhong Lang General, and Shen Du Kingdom envoys, cutting off the east-west road.
General Guangli of the Second Division conquered Dawan and defeated Dawan.
The spirit of Lai Tian traveled from the Suhe Mountain, waded through the quicksand, and led to the Western Sea. There was no accumulation of snow. The scholar-bureaucrats passed through directly and won the king's head. All the rare and strange things were displayed in the courtyard.
Li Guangli was granted the title of Marquis of Haixi, with a settlement of 8,000 households.
Zhao Di, who killed King Yu Cheng, was also granted the title of Marquis of the New Time; the most successful military leader was the Guanglu doctor; Shangguan Jie who dared to go deep was the Shaofu; Li Duo, who had a plan, was the governor of Shangdang.
Among the officers, there are three people who have been awarded the title of Jiuqing. There are more than 100 princes, ministers, county guards, and officials with the rank of 2,000 stone. There are more than 1,000 officials with the rank of 1,000 stone and below.
Voluntary participants were rewarded with more titles than they wished for, and those who were punished for crimes and joined the army were exempted from crime but not credited.
The rewards received by the soldiers were worth approximately 40,000 coins.
The two attacks on Dawan took a total of four years to end.
Eleven years later, and three years after the conquest, the general of the Second Division led 70,000 cavalry out of Wuyuan, attacked the Xiongnu, and crossed the Zhiju River.
He was defeated, surrendered to the Huns, and was killed by the Chanyu.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
语在《匈奴传》。
赞曰： 《禹本纪》言河出昆仑，昆仑高二千五百里余，日月所相避隐为光明也。
自张骞使大夏之后，穷河原，恶睹所谓昆仑者乎？
故言九州山川，《尚书》近之矣。
至《禹本纪》、《山经》所有，放哉！
translation: 
See the "Biography of the Huns".
Zan said: "The Chronicles of Yu" records that the Yellow River originates from the Kunlun Mountains. The Kunlun Mountains are more than 2,500 miles high. The light on the mountains is obtained by the alternation of the sun and the moon.
After Zhang Qian went to Daxia as an envoy, he walked to the end of the Yellow River and didn't see the Kunlun Mountains?
Therefore, when it comes to the mountains and rivers of Kyushu, "Shang Shu" is more credible.
As for the records in "Yu Benji" and "Shan Jing", they have no basis and are not credible!


