Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 6]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
张骞，汉中人也，建元中为郎。
时，匈奴降者言匈奴破月氏王，以其头为饮器，月氏遁而怨匈奴，无与共击之。
汉方欲事灭胡，闻此言，欲通使，道必更匈奴中，乃募能使者。
骞以郎应募，使月氏，与堂邑氏奴甘父俱出陇西。
径匈奴，匈奴得之，传诣单于。
单于曰： 月氏在吾北，汉何以得往使？
吾欲使越，汉肯听我乎？
留骞十余岁，予妻，有子，然骞持汉节不失。
居匈奴西，骞因与其属亡乡月氏，西走数十日，至大宛。
大宛闻汉之饶财，欲通不得，见骞，喜，问欲何之。
骞曰： 为汉使月氏而为匈奴所闭道，今亡，唯王使人道送我。诚得至，反汉，汉之赂遗王财物不可胜言。
大宛以为然，遣骞，为发译道，抵康居。
康居传致大月氏。
大月氏王已为胡所杀，立其夫人为王。
既臣大夏而君之，地肥饶，少寇，志安乐。
又自以远远汉，殊无报胡之心。骞从月氏至大夏，竟不能得月氏要领。
留岁余，还，并南山，欲从羌中归，复为匈奴所得。
留岁余，单于死，国内乱，骞与胡妻及堂邑父俱亡归汉。
拜骞太中大夫，堂邑父为奉使君。
骞为人强力，宽大信人，蛮夷爱之。
堂邑父胡人，善射，穷急射禽兽给食。
初，骞行时百余人，去十三岁，唯二人得还。
translation: 
Zhang Qian was from Hanzhong. During the Jianyuan period, he was appointed as Lang Guan.
People who surrendered to the Xiongnu at that time said that the Xiongnu defeated the Yuezhi King and used the Yuezhi King's head as a drinking vessel. The Yuezhi fled and resented the Huns because they had no one to fight with them.
The Han Dynasty was planning to engage in a war to eliminate the Xiongnu. When they heard this, they wanted to send people as envoys to the Yuezhi. However, the Xiongnu Kingdom was the only way to go, so they recruited people who could go as envoys.
Zhang Qian was recruited as an envoy to Yuezhi as a Langguan. He left Longxi with Gan Fu, Tangyi's servant.
Passing by the Huns, he was intercepted by the Huns and sent to the Shanyu in a conveyor.
Shanyu said: The Yueshi are to the north of me. How can the Han Dynasty people send envoys there?
If I want to send someone as an envoy to South Vietnam, will the Han Dynasty let our people pass by?
Zhang Qian was detained for more than ten years. He married him and gave birth to a son. However, Zhang Qian still insisted on the Han Dynasty and still maintained his status as an envoy.
Because he lived in the western part of the Huns, Zhang Qian took the opportunity to lead his subordinates to flee towards the Yueshi. After running west for dozens of days, we arrived in Dawan.
Dawan heard that the Han Dynasty was rich in wealth and wanted to have contacts with the Han Dynasty but could not find the opportunity. He was very happy to see Zhang Qian and asked him where he was going.
Zhang Qian said: We were sent as an envoy to the Yuezhi on behalf of the Han Dynasty, but the Huns blocked the road and refused to allow passage. Now we are fleeing to your country. I hope that the king can send someone to lead the way and send us there. If we can reach the Yuezhi, after we return to the Han Dynasty, the property that the Han Dynasty will give to the king will be indescribable.
Dawan thought it was okay, so he sent them there and sent translators and guides for them.
They were sent to Kangju, who sent them to Dayuezhi in a conveyor.
At this time, the original King of Dayuezhi had been killed by the Xiongnu, and his wife was made king.
Da Yuezhi had made Daxia surrender and ruled over it.
The land there was fertile, the produce was abundant, there was no intrusion, and they felt relaxed and happy. They considered themselves far away from the Han Dynasty and did not want to get close to the Han Dynasty. They had no intention of revenge against the Huns. From Yuezhi to Daxia, Zhang Qian never received a clear statement from the Yuezhi King.
After staying for more than a year, I had to return. Along the Nanshan Mountains, I wanted to return to the Han Dynasty from the place where the Qiang people lived, but I was intercepted by the Xiongnu again.
After being detained for more than a year, it happened that the Chanyu died and the Xiongnu country was in chaos. Zhang Qian fled back to the Han Dynasty with his Hun wife and Tangyi Ganfu.
The imperial court granted him the official position of Taizhong Taifu, and Tangyi Ganfu also became the envoy.
Zhang Qian is strong and perseverant, magnanimous and sincere in his treatment of others. He is liked by ethnic minorities.
Tangyi's father was a Huns who was good at archery. When he was extremely poor, he shot animals for food.
At the beginning, there were more than a hundred people when Zhang Qian traveled. After thirteen years, only he and Tang Yi's father came back.
summary:
Zhang Qian, a native of Hanzhong, was appointed as Lang Guan during the Jianyuan period. Hearing from surrendered Xiongnu that the Yuezhi had been defeated by the Xiongnu and sought allies for revenge, the Han Dynasty, planning to attack the Xiongnu, recruited envoys to the Yuezhi. Zhang Qian was recruited and departed with Gan Fu, a servant from Tangyi. Captured by the Xiongnu, he was detained for over ten years, married, and had a son, but he retained his Han envoy status. Escaping westward, he reached Dawan, which aided him due to interest in Han wealth. He was sent via Kangju to Dayuezhi, but the Yuezhi, now settled in fertile Daxia, had no desire for revenge. After over a year without a clear response, Zhang Qian returned but was recaptured by the Xiongnu. He escaped after a year during Xiongnu turmoil, returning to Han with his wife and Gan Fu. He was appointed Taizhong Taifu.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
骞身所至者，大宛、大月氏、大夏、康居，而传闻其旁大国五六，具为天子言其地形所有，语皆在《西域传》。
骞曰： 臣在大夏时，见邛竹杖、蜀布，问： 安得此？ 大夏国人曰： 吾贾人往市之身毒国。
身毒国在大夏东南可数千里。
其俗土著，与大夏同，而卑湿暑热。
其民乘象以战。其国临大水焉。 以骞度之，大夏去汉万二千里，居西南。
今身毒又居大夏东南数千里，有蜀物，此其去蜀不远矣。
今使大夏，从羌中，险，羌人恶之；少北，则为匈奴所得；从蜀，宜径，又无寇。
天子既闻大宛及大夏、安息之属皆大国，多奇物，土著，颇与中国同俗，而兵弱，贵汉财物；其北则大月氏、康居之属，兵强，可以赂遗设利朝也。
诚得而以义属之，则广地万里，重九译，致殊俗，威德遍于四海。
天子欣欣以骞言为然。
乃令因蜀犍为发间使，四道并出：出駹，出莋，出徙、邛，出僰，皆各行一二千里。
其北方闭氐、莋，南方闭巂、昆明。
昆明之属无君长，善寇盗，辄杀略汉使，终莫得通。
然闻其西可千余里，有乘象国，名滇越，而蜀贾间出物者或至焉，于是汉以求大夏道始通滇国。
初，汉欲通西南夷，费多，罢之。
及骞言可以通大夏，乃复事西南夷。
骞以校尉从大将军击匈奴，知水草处，军得以不乏，乃封骞为博望侯。
translation: 
Zhang Qian had personally visited places such as Dayuan, Dayuezhi, Daxia, Kangju and other countries. He heard that there were five or six big countries next to these countries. He told Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty one by one about the topography and products of these countries. The contents mentioned are all contained in "The Biography of the Western Regions".
Zhang Qian said: When I was in Daxia, I saw bamboo sticks from Qiong and fine cloth produced in Shu County. I asked them where they got them. The people of Daxia said: Our merchants bought them from the country of Shendu.
Shendu Country is located in the southeast of Daxia, about thousands of miles away.
The custom of Nahuo is to live a settled life, which is the same as that of Daxia, but the terrain is low-lying, humid, and the climate is hot.
People there rode elephants to fight, and the country was bordered by floods. According to my guess, Daxia was about 12,000 miles away from the Han Dynasty and to the southwest of the Han Dynasty.
Now Shendu is thousands of miles southeast of Daxia, and there are products from Shu County. It seems that Shendu is not far from Shu.
It is very dangerous for the envoy to Daxia to pass through the Qiang area. The Qiang people hate the Han Dynasty. If you go a little north, you will be captured by the Huns. If you go from Shu County, it will be a convenient road and there will be no intrusion.
Emperor Mowu heard that Dayuan, Daxia, Parthia and other countries were big countries with many strange products and lived a settled life, which was the same as the customs of the Han Dynasty. However, the military strength is very weak and they value the property of the Han Dynasty. To the north are the Dayuezhi, Kangju and other countries, which have strong military strength. They can be lured to come to see the Emperor of Han by giving them property and benefits.
If we can really do this and use moral power to make them join the Han Dynasty, then the Han Dynasty can expand its territory by more than 10,000 miles. People from some ethnic groups who come to the court will have to go through multiple translations to understand the language. Some ethnic minorities with strange customs will also come to join the Han Dynasty. The prestige and virtue of the Han Dynasty will spread all over the world.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was very happy and thought Zhang Qian's words made sense.
So he ordered envoys to be sent to explore the road through Shu County and Jianwei County, and they set off in four groups at the same time. Starting from Ranchi all the way, starting from Jedudu all the way, starting from Yiheqiong all the way, and starting from Fen all the way, each has a distance of one or two thousand miles.
However, the northern passage was blocked by the clans and Jeduyi, and the southern passage was blocked by Ling and Kunming.
Kunming and other ethnic minorities have no rulers and are good at plundering and stealing. Every time they killed passing Han envoys and took away their property, this road finally failed to open.
However, I heard that about a thousand miles west of Kunming, there is Chengxiang Kingdom, named Dianyue. Some businessmen from Shu County who privately trade goods have been there. So the Han Dynasty began to communicate with the Dian Kingdom in search of the road to Daxia.
At first, the Han Dynasty wanted to communicate with the southwestern barbarians, but stopped this work because it was too expensive.
When Zhang Qian said that it was possible to reach Daxia via the Southwest Yi, the Han Dynasty began to open up the route to the Southwest Yi.
Zhang Qian followed the general Wei Qing to attack the Huns as a captain. Because he knew where the water and grass were distributed, the army could not lack supplies, so he made Zhang Qian the Marquis of Bowang.
summary:
Zhang Qian, known for his perseverance and sincerity, visited Dawan, Dayuezhi, Daxia, and Kangju. He reported to Emperor Wu that Daxia had Shu products, suggesting Shendu was near Shu. He proposed a route via Shu to Daxia, avoiding dangerous Qiang and Xiongnu territories. Emperor Wu, intrigued by the wealth of western states, sent envoys to explore Shu routes, but they were blocked by local tribes. Zhang Qian later joined General Wei Qing against the Xiongnu, becoming Marquis of Bowang. After a failed campaign with Li Guang, he was reduced to commoner status. Following Han victories over the Xiongnu, Zhang Qian advised allying with Wusun to weaken the Xiongnu and recruit western states. Emperor Wu agreed, sending Zhang Qian with gifts to Wusun. Though Wusun did not commit, Zhang Qian sent deputies to other states. Wusun later sent envoys to Han, and Zhang Qian died over a year after returning.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
太初元年，以广利为贰师将军，发属国六千骑及郡国恶少年数万人以往，期至贰师城取善马，故号 贰师将军 。
故浩侯王恢使道军。
既西过盐水，当道小国各坚城守，不肯给食，攻之不能下。
下者得食，不下者数日则去。
比至郁成，士财有数千，皆饥罢。
攻郁成城，郁成距之，所杀伤甚众。
贰师将军与左右计： 至郁成尚不能举，况至其王都乎？
引而还。
往来二岁，至敦煌，士不过什一二。
使使上书言： 道远，多乏食，且士卒不患战而患饥。
人少，不足以拔宛。
愿且罢兵，益发而复往。
天子闻之，大怒，使使遮玉门关，曰： 军有敢入，斩之。
贰师恐，因留屯敦煌。
其夏，汉亡浞野之兵二万余于匈奴，公卿议者皆愿罢宛军，专力攻胡。
天子业出兵诛宛，宛小国而不能下，则大夏之属渐轻汉，而宛善马绝不来，乌孙、轮台易苦汉使，为外国笑。
乃案言伐宛尤不便者邓光等。
赦囚徒扞寇盗，发恶少年及边骑，岁余而出敦煌六万人，负私从者不与。
牛十万，马三万匹，驴、橐驼以万数赍粮，兵弩甚设。
天下骚动，转相奉伐宛，五十余校尉。
宛城中无井，汲城外流水，于是遣水工徙其城下水空以穴其城。
translation: 
In the first year of Taichu, Guangli was appointed as the general of the Second Division. He led six thousand cavalry from the vassal state and tens of thousands of young men with bad conduct from the county. He used these troops to attack Dawan. He expected to capture good horses from the city of the Second Division, so he was called "General of the Second Division".
Wang Hui, the former Haohou, led the army and served as a guide.
The troops of the General of the Second Division had already encountered Yanyan to the west. The small countries along the route were in panic and tightly defended their castles. They did not supply the Han army with food and could not be defeated.
Those who can be captured will have food to eat, and those who cannot be captured will have to leave in a few days.
By the time they reached Yucheng, there were only a few thousand soldiers left, and they were all hungry and tired.
They attacked Yucheng City and were defeated, with many casualties.
The general of the Second Division discussed with his left and right: We can't capture it until Yucheng, let alone the capital of King Dawan?
Just retreat with the troops.
It took two years of traveling back and forth. When we returned to Dunhuang, only one-tenth of the soldiers were left.
He sent an envoy to write a memorial to the emperor saying: The journey is long and there is a shortage of food. The soldiers were not afraid of war, but of starvation.
With few troops, Wan cannot be captured.
I hope to withdraw the troops temporarily and send more troops before going back.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty heard what had been reported, he became furious and sent envoys to guard Yumen Pass, saying that if any soldier dared to enter the pass, he would be killed immediately!
General Li Guangli of the Second Division was afraid and stayed in Dunhuang.
In the summer of that year, the Han Dynasty fought against the Xiongnu, and the soldiers of the Hou Po Nu were killed by more than 20,000 people. After discussion, senior officials of the Han Dynasty hoped to call back the troops that attacked Dawan and focus on dealing with the Xiongnu.
However, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty believed that since he had sent troops to attack Dayuan, if a small country like Dayuan could not defeat it, countries like Daxia would gradually look down on the Han Dynasty, and the good horses from Dayuan would be stopped from coming to the Han Dynasty. Countries such as Wusun and Luntai would also make it difficult for the Han Dynasty's envoys, and they would laugh at foreign countries.
So Deng Guang and others were punished for discussing that the attack on Dawan was particularly inappropriate.
The prisoner soldiers were pardoned, and the young men with bad conduct and the cavalry on the border were sent to the army. After more than a year, 60,000 troops were sent from Dunhuang, not counting those who personally brought food and followed the troops to fight.
This team contains 100,000 cattle, 30,000 horses, and tens of thousands of donkeys and camels.
They brought plenty of food and were well equipped with weapons, bows and arrows. The whole country was in turmoil, and supplies were supplied one after another for the expedition to Dawan. A total of more than fifty officers of the army went out for the expedition.
There were no wells in the capital of Dawan, so water had to be brought in from outside the city. So the Mo army sent water control craftsmen to divert the water from the city to prevent it from flowing under the city. Instead, they diverted the water into holes and attacked the city with water.
summary:
After Zhang Qian's missions, Han envoys frequently traveled to the Western Regions, often exaggerating to gain favor. Emperor Wu, seeking Dawan horses, sent Li Guangli as General of Ershi to attack Dawan. The first campaign failed due to food shortages, and Li Guangli was ordered to halt at Dunhuang. Despite opposition, Emperor Wu launched a massive second campaign with 60,000 troops, 100,000 cattle, and 30,000 horses. After a 40-day siege, Dawan nobles killed their king and offered horses, ending the war. Li Guangli was made Marquis of Haixi. The campaigns opened routes to the Western Regions, with Han establishing Jiuquan County and building fortresses. Envoys continued, but conflicts arose with small states like Loulan and Gushi, leading to Han military actions. The Han Dynasty's influence expanded, though some states remained distant. The text concludes with a note on the reliability of ancient texts regarding the Yellow River's source.

