Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 3, 7, 11, 14]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
王商字子威，涿郡蠡吾人也，徙杜陵。
商公武、武兄无故，皆以宣帝舅封。
无故为平昌侯，武为乐昌侯。
语在《外戚传》。
商少为太子中庶子，以肃敬敦厚称。
父薨，商嗣为侯，推财以分异母诸弟，身无所受，居丧哀戚。
于是大臣荐商行可以厉群臣，义足以厚风俗，宜备近臣。
繇是擢为诸曹、侍中、中郎将。
元帝时，至右将军、光禄大夫。
是时，定陶共王爱幸，几代太子。
商为外戚重臣辅政，拥佑太子，颇有力焉。
元帝崩，成帝即位，甚敬重商，徙为左将军。
而帝元舅大司马大将军王凤颛权，行多骄僣。
商论议不能平凤，凤知之，亦疏商。
建始三年秋，京师民无故相惊，言大水至，百姓奔走相蹂躏、老弱号呼，长安中大乱。
translation: 
Wang Shang, named Ziwei, was originally from Liwu County, Zhuo County, and later moved to Duling.
Wang Shang's father, Wang Wu, and Wang Wu's brother were all granted the title for no reason because they were relatives of Emperor Xuan.
For no reason, he was granted the title of Marquis of Pingchang, and Wang Wu was granted the title of Marquis of Lechang.
These words are recorded in "The Biography of Wai Qi".
Wang Shang Shi Danfu Xi said that when Wang Shang was young, he was the concubine of the crown prince and was praised for his serious, respectful and loyal character.
After his father's death, Wang Shang succeeded his father as the Marquis of Lechang. He transferred his property and distributed it to his half-brothers. He left nothing behind, and he mourned during the mourning period.
So the minister recommended that the king's business can encourage the ministers, his benevolence and righteousness can make the customs honest, and he should be used as a close minister.
As a result, Wang Shang was promoted to the rank of lieutenant general among all the Cao officials.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, he was promoted to General You and Doctor Guanglu.
At that time, King Dingtao was favored and almost replaced the prince.
As a relative and important minister, Wang Shang assisted the government and supported the prince, which played a great role.
After the death of Emperor Yuan, Emperor Cheng came to the throne. He respected Wang Shang very much and was appointed General Zuo.
When Emperor Cheng became emperor, his uncle Sima General Wang Feng took over all the power and acted too proudly.
Wang Shang could not treat Wang Feng fairly when discussing courtiers. Wang Feng knew about this and alienated Wang Shang.
In the autumn of the third year after the founding of the People's Republic of China, the people of Kyoto panicked for no reason. There were rumors that a flood was coming.

summary:
summary line 0: Wang Shang, styled Ziwei, originally from Liwu County in Zhuo Commandery, later moved to Duling. His father Wang Wu and uncle were granted marquisates as relatives of Emperor Xuan, with Wang Wu becoming Marquis of Lechang. Wang Shang succeeded his father, distributed his inheritance to half-brothers, and was praised for his seriousness and loyalty. He rose to become General of the Left and Guanglu大夫 during Emperor Yuan's reign, supporting the crown prince against the favored King Dingtao.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
天子亲御前殿，召公卿议。
大将军凤以为太后与上及后宫可御船，令吏民上长安城以避水。
群臣皆从凤议。
左将军商独曰： 自古无道之国，水犹不冒城郭。
今政治和平，世无兵革，上下相安，何因当有大水一日暴至？
此必讹言也，不宜令上城，重惊百姓。
上乃止。
有顷，长安中稍定，问之，果讹言。
上于是美壮商之固守，数称其议。
而凤大惭，自恨失言。
明年，商代匡衡为丞相，益封千户，天子甚尊任之。
为人多质有威重，长八尺余，身体鸿大，容貌甚过绝人。
河平四年，单于来朝，引见白虎殿。
丞相商坐未央廷中，单于前，拜谒商。
商起，离席与言，单于仰视商貌，大畏之，迁延却退。
天子闻而叹曰： 此真汉相矣！
translation: 
The emperor personally came to the front hall and summoned the ministers to discuss the matter.
General Wang Feng thought that the Queen Mother, the Emperor, and the concubines in the harem could take a boat, allowing officials and people to board the Chang'an city wall to avoid the flood.
All ministers obeyed Wang Feng's advice.
Only General Wang Shang of the Left said: Since ancient times, floods have never flooded the cities of countries without moral governance.
Now the political situation is stable, there have been no wars for generations, and the monarchs and ministers are in peace. Why would a flood suddenly appear in one day?
This must be Mi's words, and the people should not be allowed to go to the city wall to make the people even more panicked.
The emperor gave up because of this.
Soon, the city of Chang'an gradually settled down. After verification, it turned out to be true.
The emperor then greatly praised Wang Shang's insistence on staying behind and repeatedly praised his ideas.
Wang Feng was greatly ashamed and regretted his mistake in speaking.
The next year, Wang Shang replaced Kuang Heng as prime minister, and granted a title to a thousand households in the city. The emperor respected and trusted him very much.
Wang Shang was a simple man with a majestic appearance. He was more than eight feet tall, had a burly build, and had a majestic appearance. He was extraordinary.
In the fourth year of Heping's reign, Chanyu came to worship and was led to the White Tiger Hall to see him.
Prime Minister Wang Shang was sitting in the court of Weiyang Palace. Chanyu came forward to pay homage to Wang Shang.
Wang Shang stood up and left his seat to talk to him. Shan Yu looked up and saw Wang Shang's face. He was very frightened and walked out tremblingly.
When the emperor heard about it, he exclaimed: "You are worthy of being the prime minister of the Han Dynasty!"

summary:
summary line 1: Under Emperor Cheng, Wang Shang served as General of the Left. When false rumors of a flood caused panic in the capital, General Wang Feng proposed evacuating to the city walls. Wang Shang argued that floods had never breached a virtuous capital, and the panic would worsen. The emperor agreed, and calm was restored. Wang Shang replaced Kuang Heng as Chancellor, earning the emperor's trust. During a visit by the Xiongnu Chanyu, Wang Shang's imposing stature so frightened the Chanyu that he trembled, prompting the emperor to praise him as a worthy Chancellor.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
下朝者左将军丹等问匡，对曰： 窃见丞相商作威作福，从外制中，取必于上，性残贼不仁，遣票轻吏微求人罪，欲以立威，天下患苦之。
前频阳耿定上书言商与父傅通，及女弟淫乱，奴杀其私夫，疑商教使。
章下有司，商私怨怼。
商子俊欲上书告商，俊妻左将军丹女，持其书以示丹，丹恶其父子乘迕，为女求去。
商不尽忠纳善以辅至德，知圣主崇孝，远别不亲，后庭之事皆爱命皇太后，太后前闻商有女，欲以备后宫，商言有固疾，后有耿定事，更诡道因李贵人家内女，执左道以乱政，诬罔悖大臣节，故应是而日蚀。
《周书》曰： 以左道事君者诛。 《易》曰： 日中见昧，则折其右肱。
往者丞相周勃再建大功，及孝文时纤介怨恨，而日为之蚀，于是退勃使就国，卒无怵惕忧。
今商无尺寸之功，而有三世之宠，身位三公，宗族为列侯、吏二千石、侍中诸曹，给事禁门内，连昏诸侯王，权宠至盛。
translation: 
After leaving the court, Zuo General Shi Dan and others asked Zhang Kuang. Zhang Kuang replied: I think Prime Minister Wang Shang is acting arrogantly and citing external forces to control the court. He must achieve what he wants. He is cruel and vicious, has no mercy, punishes crimes quickly, despises officials, privately seeks out the faults of others, and wants to use it to build up his prestige. People in the world regard him as a pain and disaster.
Geng Ding, a native of Pinyang, had previously written a memorial to expose Wang Shang's affair with his father's maid, as well as his sister's adultery. The slave killed her adulterer, suspecting Wang Shang's instigation.
The memorial was handed over to the Secretary for processing, and Wang Shang was privately dissatisfied.
Wang Shang's son Wang Jun wanted to file a memorial against Wang Shang. Wang Jun's wife was the daughter of Zuo General Shi Dan, so he took Wang Jun's memorial to Shi Dan. Shi Dan was disgusted with the conflict between the father and son and asked for a divorce for his daughter.
Wang Shang did not exhaust his loyalty and offered good advice to assist the virtuous monarch. He knew that the wise emperor respected filial piety, stayed away from women, and obeyed the empress dowager in matters concerning the harem. The empress dowager had heard that Wang Shang had a daughter and wanted to include her in the harem. Wang Shang claimed that his daughter had a disease that could not be cured for a long time. Later, Geng Ding wrote a letter, and violated the right rules and used Li Gui's family to introduce his daughter. Wang Shang practiced evil ways to disrupt the government, deceived people with false statements, and violated the ethics of ministers, so a solar eclipse occurred.
"Book of Zhou" says: Those who serve the monarch with evil ways should be killed. "Book of Changes" says: When the sun is obscured and darkened at noon, the right arm of the minister should be cut off.
In the past, the prime minister Zhou Bo had made great achievements twice, but when Emperor Xiaowen came, he had a slight resentment, which made the sun suffer. So Emperor Xiaowen dismissed Zhou Bo and let him return to his fiefdom. Finally, he no longer had any worries.
Now Wang Shang has no small achievements, but he has been favored by three generations of monarchs. He is ranked among the three princes, and his relatives are named princes. He is appointed as an official with two thousand stones, serving in the palace, serving in the palace, and marrying the princes and kings. His power, honor, and prosperity have reached its peak.

summary:
summary line 2: Wang Shang clashed with Wang Feng over the punishment of Yang Wei, a corrupt official. Wang Feng urged leniency, but Wang Shang insisted on dismissal, deepening Wang Feng's resentment. Wang Feng secretly sought Wang Shang's faults and exposed a family scandal: Wang Shang had initially refused to send his ill daughter to the harem at the Empress Dowager's request, but later used a favored concubine's influence to do so after being threatened. A solar eclipse occurred, and Zhang Kuang blamed Wang Shang for moral failings, citing his alleged adultery, murder, and deceit. Despite Wang Feng's demands for execution, the emperor spared Wang Shang, stripping him of his title. Wang Shang died three days later from vomiting blood.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
史丹字君仲，鲁国人也，徙杜陵。
祖父恭有女弟，武帝时为卫太子良娣，产悼皇考。
皇考者，孝宣帝父也。
宣帝微时依倚史氏。
语在《史良娣传》。
及宣帝即尊位，恭已死，三子，高、曾、玄。
曾、玄皆以外属旧恩封：曾为将陵侯，玄平台侯。
高侍中，贵幸，以发举反者大司马霍禹功封乐陵侯。
宣帝疾病，拜高为大司马、车骑将军，领尚书事。
帝崩，太子袭尊号，是为孝元帝。
高辅政五年，乞骸骨，赐安车驷马、黄金，罢就第。
薨，谥曰安侯。
自元帝为太子时，丹以父高任为中庶子，侍从十余年。
元帝即位，为驸马都尉侍中，出常骖乘，甚有宠。
上以丹旧臣，皇考外属，亲信之，诏丹护太子家。
是时，傅昭仪子定陶共王有材艺，子母俱爱幸，而太子颇有酒色之失，母王皇后无宠。
建昭之后，元帝被疾，不亲政事，留好音乐。
translation: 
Shi Dan, whose courtesy name was Junzhong, was originally from Lu and later moved to Duling.
Grandfather Shi Gong had a sister who was the concubine of Prince Wei during the reign of Emperor Wu, and gave birth to Emperor Mourning Kao.
Huang Kao was the father of Emperor Xuan.
When Emperor Xuan was poor and humble, he relied on the Shi family.
These words are recorded in "The Biography of Shi Liangdi".
By the time Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, Shi Gong was already dead and had three sons, Shi Gao, Shi Zeng, and Shi Xuan.
Both Shi Zeng and Shi Xuan were granted the title because they were relatives from their maternal family and had the kindness of their ancestors. Shi Zeng was granted the title of General Linghou, and Shi Xuan was granted the title of Platform Marquis.
Shi Gao served as a minister and was honored and favored. He was named the Marquis of Leling for his role in exposing the rebel commander Huo Yu.
Emperor Xuan was seriously ill and appointed Shi Gao as the Grand Sima Cavalry General and concurrently as the Minister.
When Emperor Xuan died, the prince inherited the title of emperor, creating Emperor Xiaoyuan.
Shi Gao assisted the government for five years. He asked to retire because of his old age. He was given a chariot drawn by four horses and brass, and was dismissed from his post and returned home.
After his death, he was honored as Anhou.
When Emperor Yuan became the crown prince, Shi Dan was appointed as the concubine because of his father Shi Gao, and he followed him for more than ten years.
After Emperor Yuan ascended the throne, Shi Dan was appointed Prince Consort Duwei's Attendant. The Emperor often rode on the right side of the carriage when traveling, and was very favored.
Because Shi Dan was a former minister and a relative of his late father's family, the emperor trusted him closely and ordered Shi Dan to protect the prince's family.
At that time, Fu Zhaoyi's son, King Dingtao, was talented, and both mother and son were favored. However, the prince had some faults in drinking and sex, and his mother, the Queen, was not favored.
During the Jianzhao period, Emperor Yuan fell ill and could not personally manage the affairs of the court. He was just greedy for music.

summary:
summary line 3: Shi Dan, styled Junzhong, from Lu, later moved to Duling. His grandfather's sister was a concubine of Prince Wei, mother of Emperor Xuan's father. Shi Dan served as a crown prince's attendant for over a decade. When Emperor Yuan fell ill and favored King Dingtao over the prince, Shi Dan wept before the emperor, arguing the prince was established and respected. The emperor relented, securing the prince's succession. After Emperor Cheng's accession, Shi Dan became General of the Left and Marquis of Wuyang. He was outwardly suave but cautious, trusted by the emperor. He lived extravagantly with many concubines and servants, serving as general for sixteen years before retiring due to illness and dying shortly after.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
为将军前后十六年，永始中病乞骸骨，上赐策曰： 左将军寝病不衰，愿归治疾，朕愍以官职之事久留将军，使躬不瘳。
使光禄勋赐将军黄金五十斤，安车驷马，其上将军印绶。
宜专精神，务近医药，以辅不衰。
丹归第数月薨，谥曰顷侯。
有子男女二十人，九男皆以丹任并为侍中、诸曹，亲近在左右。
史氏凡四人侯，至卿、大夫、二千石者十余人，皆讫王莽乃绝，唯将陵侯曾无子，绝于身云。
傅喜字稚游，河内温人也，哀帝祖母定陶傅太后从父弟。
少好学问，有志行。
哀帝立为太子，成帝选喜为太子庶子。
哀帝初即位，以喜为卫尉，迁右将军。
是时，王莽为大司马，乞骸骨，避帝外家。
translation: 
He served as a general for a total of sixteen years. During the Yongshi period, he became seriously ill and asked to retire. The emperor gave him a policy letter saying: General Zuo is getting seriously ill and is not declining. He hopes to return home to cure his illness. I feel sorry for him. He has kept the general for a long time with his official duties, so that his body has not recovered.
He sent Guang Luxun to give the general fifty kilograms of brass, a carriage drawn by four horses, and handed over the general's seal.
You should concentrate your energy and mind, and be sure to get close to the doctor and take medicine to support your body and prevent it from failing.
Shi Dan died a few months after returning home and was named the Marquis of Qing.
He had twenty sons and daughters. Because of Shi Dan's trust, all nine sons became ministers and ministers, close to the emperor and often at his side.
There were a total of four people in the Shi family who were granted the title of marquis, and there were more than ten people who had the salary of 2,000 dan as official or minister. They were all extinct until the period of Wang Mang. Only Shi Zeng, the Marquis of Jiangling, had no heirs and was exterminated by himself.
Fu Xi, courtesy name Zhiyou, was a native of Wenxian County, Hanoi. He was the cousin of Empress Dowager Dingtao, the grandmother of Emperor Ai.
When he was young, he liked to learn and inquire, and he had ambition and integrity.
Emperor Ai was established as the crown prince, and Emperor Cheng selected Fu Xi as the crown prince's concubine.
As soon as Emperor Ai ascended the throne, he appointed Fu happy as a guard and promoted to general on the right.
At that time, Wang Mang was serving as Chief Sima, so he asked to resign and took refuge in the emperor's uncle's house.

summary:
summary line 4: Fu Xi, styled Zhiyou, from Wen County, was cousin to Emperor Ai's grandmother. He served as a crown prince's attendant and later as General of the Right. When Wang Mang resigned, Fu Xi declined power, citing illness. Empress Dowager Fu wanted to claim equal status with Emperor Cheng's mother, but Fu Xi, with Kong Guang and Shi Dan, opposed this. The emperor dismissed Shi Dan and then Fu Xi, accusing him of failing to correct errors and fostering treachery. Fu Xi was sent to his fiefdom, later recalled by Wang Mang, but died of old age. His son inherited the title, which ended after Wang Mang's fall.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
传不云乎？ 岁寒然后知松伯之后凋也 。
其还喜长安，以故高安侯莫府赐喜，位特进，奉朝请。
喜虽外见褒赏，孤立忧惧，后复遣就国，以寿终。
莽赐谥曰贞侯。
子嗣，莽败乃绝。
赞曰：自宜、元、成、哀外戚兴者，许、史、三王、丁、傅之家，皆重侯累将，穷贵极富，见其位矣，未见其人也。
阳平之王多有材能，好事慕名，其势尤盛，旷贵最久。
然至于莽，亦以覆国。
王商有刚毅节，废黜以忧死，非其罪也。史丹父子相继，高以重厚，位至三公。
丹之辅道副主，掩恶扬美，傅会善意，虽宿儒达士无以加焉。
translation: 
Isn’t it said in ancient books? When the weather is cold, we know that the pines and cypresses will wither.
Let Fu happy return to Chang'an, give Fu happy the former residence of Gao'an Marquis, occupy the special position, and participate in court meetings in the name of being invited by the court.
Although Fu happy was praised and rewarded on the surface, he was lonely, helpless and frightened. He was later sent back to his fiefdom and died of old age.
Wang Mang gave him the title of Zhenhou.
His son inherited the title, which was cut off after Wang Mang's defeat.
Praise said: Since Emperor Xuan, Emperor Yuan, Emperor Cheng, and Emperor Ai, the families of relatives have become particularly powerful, including the Xu family, the Shi family, the three Wang families, the Ding family, and the Fu family. They all have several people in the family, many generals, and are extremely wealthy. Only their prominent status is seen, but no outstanding talents are found in them.
The Yangping Wang family has some talent, likes to be busy, and loves fame. His power is especially strong, and he has been in high positions for the longest time even though he is not qualified.
However, by the time of Wang Mang, it was also destroyed.
Wang Shang was deposed because of his upright and firm moral integrity. He died of worry through no fault of his. Shi Dan and his son succeeded each other. Shi Gao was listed as one of the three princes because of his solemnity and loyalty.
Shi Dan assisted and guided the prince, covering up the bad things, praising the good things, and understanding the good intentions. Even the mature Confucians and wise scholars could not surpass him.

summary:
summary line 5: The commentary notes that from Emperor Xuan to Emperor Ai, powerful families like the Xu, Shi, Wang, Ding, and Fu clans held high positions but lacked talent. Wang Shang was deposed for his integrity, dying blameless. Shi Dan's loyalty secured the crown prince's position, earning rewards. Fu Xi's steadfastness was recognized, but during the transition between Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, fortune and misfortune shifted rapidly.

