Chunk 0: 
original: 
柳惔，字文通，河东解人也。父世隆，齐司空。
惔年十七，齐武帝为中军，命为参军，转主簿。
齐初，入为尚书三公郎，累迁太子中舍人，巴东王子响友。
子响为荆州，惔随之镇。
子响昵近小人，惔知将为祸，称疾还京。
及难作，惔以先归得免。
历中书侍郎，中护军长史。
出为新安太守，居郡，以无政绩，免归。
久之，为右军谘议参军事。
建武末，为西戎校尉、梁、南秦二州刺史。
及高祖起兵，惔举汉中应义。
和帝即位，以为侍中，领前军将军。
高祖践阼，征为护军将军，未拜，仍迁太子詹事，加散骑常侍。论功封曲江县侯，邑千户。
高祖因宴为诗以贻惔曰： 尔实冠群后，惟余实念功。
又尝侍座，高祖曰： 徐元瑜违命岭南，《周书》罪不相及，朕已宥其诸子，何如？
惔对曰： 罚不及嗣，赏延于世，今复见之圣朝。
时以为知言。
寻迁尚书右仆射。
天监四年，大举北伐，临川王宏都督众军，以惔为副。
军还，复为仆射。
以久疾，转金紫光禄大夫，加散骑常侍，给亲信二十人。
未拜，出为使持节、安南将军、湘州刺史。
translation: 
Liu Xun, courtesy name Wentong, was born in Jie County, Hedong. His father Shilong was Sikong in the Qi Dynasty.
When Liu Xun was seventeen years old, Emperor Wu of Qi was still a member of the Central Army, so he was appointed to join the army and transferred to the position of chief registrar.
In the early years of the Qi Dynasty, he was appointed Sangonglang of Shangshu, moved to Prince Zhongsheren, and became a friend of Prince Xiang of Badong.
When Zixiang was in charge of Jingzhou, Liu Xun followed him there.
Zi Xiang likes to get close to villains, but Liu Xun knew that this would be a disaster, so he returned to Beijing claiming to be ill.
When the disaster struck, Liu Xun was spared because he returned to Beijing first.
He successively served as the Minister of Zhongshu and the Commander of the Zhonghu Army.
He served as the prefect of Xin'an and lived in the county. He was dismissed and returned home on the grounds that he had no political achievements.
After a period of time, Ren Weijun proposed to join the military.
In the last years of Jianwu, he served as the captain of Xirong and the governor of Liang, Nan and Qin states.
When Emperor Gaozu raised his troops to rebel, Liu Xun led the Hanzhong troops to respond.
Emperor He ascended the throne and appointed him as a servant and a general in charge of the front army.
When Emperor Gaozu was the emperor, he was appointed as a general to protect the army. Before he was appointed, he was still moved to the position of Prince Zhan Shi.
Emperor Gaozu composed a poem and presented it to Liu Xun at the banquet. The poem goes: After you are crowned among the others at the banquet, I am the only one who really thinks about meritorious deeds.
I once chatted with Gaozu again, and Gaozu said: Xu Yuanyu disobeyed orders in Cennan, and the "Book of Zhou" is not related to the crime. I have pardoned his disciples, how about it?
Liu Xun replied: "The punishment will not be imposed on his descendants, and the rewards will be extended to future generations. Today I see the Holy Dynasty again."
At that time people called it wisdom.
Soon he was transferred to the right servant of Shangshu.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, a large-scale Northern Expedition was launched. Liang Hong, the king of Linchuan, supervised the army, with Liu Xun as his deputy.
After the army returned, they still served as servants.
Due to a long illness, he was transferred to the post of Dr. Jin Ziguanglu, with additional Sanqi regular attendants and twenty close followers.
Before becoming an official, he served as envoy Chijie, General Annan, and governor of Xiangzhou.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
六年十月，卒于州，时年四十六。
高祖为素服举哀。
赠侍中、抚军将军，给鼓吹一部。谥曰穆。
惔著《仁政传》及诸诗赋，粗有辞义。
子照嗣。
惔第四弟憕，亦有美誉，历侍中、镇西长史。
天监十二年，卒，赠宁远将军、豫州刺史。
忱字文若，惔第五弟也。
年数岁，父世隆及母阎氏时寝疾，忱不解带经年。
及居丧，以毁闻。
起家为司徒行参军，累迁太子中舍人，西中郎主簿，功曹史。
齐东昏遣巴西太守刘山阳由荆袭高祖，西中郎长史萧颖胄计未有定，召忱及其所亲席阐文等夜入议之。
忱曰： 朝廷狂悖，为恶日滋。
顷闻京师长者，莫不重足累息；今幸在远，得假日自安。
雍州之事，且藉以相毙耳。
独不见萧令君乎？以精兵数千，破崔氏十万众，竟为群邪所陷，祸酷相寻。
translation: 
He died in office in October of the sixth year at the age of forty-six.
Emperor Gaozu wore plain clothes and expressed his condolences.
He was given as a gift to Shizhong and the general of the Fu army, and was given a piece of propaganda, with the posthumous title Mu.
Liu Xun is the author of "The Biography of Renzheng" and many poems and poems, which are rough and meaningful.
His son Liu Zhao succeeded him.
Liu Xun's fourth younger brother, Liu Xin, also had a good reputation and served successively as Shizhong and Zhenxi Chief.
He died in the twelfth year of Tianjian and was given to General Ningyuan and the governor of Yuzhou.
Liu Chen, also known as Wenruo, is Liu Xun's fifth younger brother.
When he was only a few years old, his father Liu Shilong and his mother Yan were often bedridden, and Liu Chen went to bed without undressing for several years.
During the period of mourning and filial piety, people are known for being excessively sad.
When he started his career, he served as Situ Xing and joined the army. He was later moved to the position of Prince Zhongsheren.
Qi Donghunhou sent Liu Shanyang, the governor of Brazil, to attack Emperor Gaozu from Jingzhou. Shi Xiao Yingzhou, the chief of the Xizhong army, could not think of any good strategies. At night, he called Liu Chen and his confidant Xi Shanwen to discuss countermeasures.
Liu Chen said: The current emperor is fatuous and rebellious, doing more and more evil every day.
Not long ago I heard that all the ministers in the capital were so frightened that they dared not even speak out; now, fortunately, we are far away from the court and are temporarily safe.
The imperial court ordered us to attack Yongzhou, but it was just a way for both sides to kill each other.
Didn't you see Xiao Lingjun's fate? He defeated Cui's army of 100,000 with thousands of elite soldiers. However, he was framed by those evil villains, which caused disaster to him.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
前事之不忘，后事之师也。
若使彼凶心已逞，岂知使君不系踵而及？
且雍州士锐粮多，萧使君雄姿冠世，必非山阳所能拟；若破山阳，荆州复受失律之责。
进退无可，且深虑之。
阐文亦深劝同高祖。
颖胄乃诱斩山阳，以忱为宁朔将军。
和帝即位，为尚书吏部郎，进号辅国将军、南平太守。
寻迁侍中、冠军将军，太守如故。
转吏部尚书，不拜。
郢州平，颖胄议迁都夏口，忱复固谏，以为巴硖未宾，不宜轻舍根本，摇动民志。
颖胄不从。
俄而巴东兵至硖口，迁都之议乃息。
论者以为见机。
高祖践阼，以忱为五兵尚书，领骁骑将军。
论建义功，封州陵伯，邑七百户。
天监二年，出为安西长史、冠军将军、南郡太守。
translation: 
Never forget the past and be the teacher of the future.
If the conspiracy of those villains succeeds, how do you know that you will not follow in their footsteps?
Besides, Yongzhou has a lot of soldiers, and Xiao Shijun is majestic. Liu Shanyang will definitely not be his opponent; if he defeats Liu Shanyang, we in Jingzhou will also be blamed for not executing the imperial order.
It's a real dilemma, so it should be seriously considered.
Shanwen also tried his best to persuade Tizhou to accompany Gaozu in raising troops to start a rebellion.
Yingzhou lured Liu Shanyang to death and appointed Liu Chen as General Ningshuo.
When Emperor Qi He came to the throne, Liu Chen was promoted to Shangshu Libu Lang, and he was promoted to General of the Assistant State and Prefect of Nanping.
Soon he was moved to the position of Shizhong and Champion General, and he remained as the prefect.
He was transferred to the Ministry of Personnel and did not accept the official position.
After Yingzhou was captured, Yingzhou prepared to move the capital to Xia, but Liu Chen insisted on admonishing him. He believed that Ba and Shaanxi had not surrendered yet, and they should not give up their base areas easily to shake the people's hearts.
Yingzhou didn't listen.
Soon Ba Shu's enemy troops attacked Kip Kou, and the plan to move the capital was cancelled.
Everyone said he was prescient.
When Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, he appointed Liu Chen as the Minister of the Five Arms and the leading general of the heroic cavalry.
Because of his meritorious service in the founding of the country, he was granted the title of Prefecture Lingbo and was granted the title of 700 households.
In the second year of Tianjian, he became the chief historian of Anxi, the champion general, and the governor of Nanjun.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
六年，征为员外散骑常侍、太子右卫率。
未发，迁持节、督湘州诸军事、辅国将军、湘州刺史。
八年，坐辄放从军丁免。
俄入为秘书监，迁散骑常侍，转祠部尚书，未拜遇疾，诏改授给事中、光禄大夫，疾笃不拜。
十年，卒于家，时年四十一。
追赠中书令，谥曰穆。
子范嗣。
席阐文，安定临泾人也。
少孤贫，涉猎书史。
齐初，为雍州刺史萧赤斧中兵参军，由是与其子颖胄善。
复历西中郎中兵参军，领城局。
高祖之将起义也，阐文深劝之，颖胄同焉，仍遣田祖恭私报高祖，并献银装刀，高祖报以金如意。
和帝称尊号，为给事黄门侍郎，寻迁卫尉卿。
颖胄暴卒，州府骚扰，阐文以和帝幼弱，中流任重，时始兴王憺留镇雍部，用与西朝群臣迎王总州事，故赖以宁辑。
高祖受禅，除都官尚书、辅国将军。
封山阳伯，邑七百户。
出为东阳太守，又改封湘西，户邑如故。
视事二年，以清白著称，卒于官。
诏赙钱三万，布五十匹。
translation: 
In the sixth year, he was recruited as a regular attendant of the foreign scattered cavalry and led by the prince's right guard.
Before setting off, he moved to Chijie, supervised the military affairs of Xiangzhou, assisted the generals of the country, and was the governor of Xiangzhou.
In eight years, he was dismissed from his post for arbitrarily indulging a sergeant.
Soon after, he was appointed as Secretary Supervisor, moved as a regular attendant, and became the Minister of the Temple Department. He fell ill before he could take the official position. The imperial court issued an edict and appointed him as the official of Guanglu and Guanglu. Because his illness worsened, he did not take the official position.
Ten years later, he died at home at the age of forty-one.
As a posthumous gift to Zhongshu Ling, Mi became Mu.
His son Liu Fan inherited the title.
Xi Chanwen was born in Linjing County, Anding County.
He lost his parents when he was young and lived in poverty. He loved reading books since he was a child. At the beginning of Qi.
Xiao Chiaxu, who served as the governor of Yongzhou, joined the army, so he was very friendly with his son Xiao Yingzhou.
He also served successively as a doctor in Xizhong and joined the army and led the city bureau.
Emperor Gaozu raised an army to resist Marquis Shuhun, and Shanwen tried his best to persuade him. Xiao Yingzhou agreed to respond to Emperor Gaozu and join the rebellion. He also sent Tian Zugong to report to Emperor Gaozu secretly, and contributed a silver sword. Emperor Gaozu gave him gold Ruyi in return.
Emperor Qi He ascended the throne and appointed him as the minister of Huangmen, and soon moved to Weiqing.
Yingzhou died suddenly, and the state government was in turmoil. Shanwen thought that Emperor He was young and the tasks in the middle reaches of the Yangtze River were arduous. At that time, Xiao Qi, the king of Shixing, was staying in Yongzhou, so he and the civil and military officials from Jiangling in the Western Dynasty welcomed Xiao Qi to take charge of the affairs of Jingzhou Mansion, so the people were able to stabilize.
Emperor Gaozu accepted Zen and ascended the throne, and Shanwen was appointed as the official minister of the capital and the general of the auxiliary country.
He was granted the title of Shanyang Bo and was granted the title of Shanyang Bo, with a settlement of 700 households.
He was appointed as the prefect of Shuyang, and was granted a new title in Xiangxi, but his residence remained the same.
He served as an official for two years and was known for his innocence. He died while serving as an official.
Emperor Gaozu issued an edict to donate 30,000 yuan and 50 pieces of cloth to help with funeral arrangements.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
谥曰威。
韦睿，字怀文，京兆杜陵人也。
自汉丞相贤以后，世为三辅著姓。祖玄，避吏隐于长安南山。
宋武帝入关，以太尉掾征，不至。
伯父祖征，宋末为光禄勋。
父祖归，宁远长史。
睿事继母以孝闻。
睿兄纂、阐，并早知名。
纂、睿皆好学，阐有清操。
祖征累为郡守，每携睿之职，视之如子。
时睿内兄王憕、姨弟杜恽，并有乡里盛名。
祖征谓睿曰： 汝自谓何如憕、恽？
睿谦不敢对。
祖征曰： 汝文章或小减，学识当过之；然而干国家，成功业，皆莫汝逮也。
外兄杜幼文为梁州刺史，要睿俱行。
梁土富饶，往者多以贿败；睿时虽幼，独用廉闻。
宋永光初，袁抃为雍州刺史，见而异之，引为主簿。
translation: 
Mi's name is power.
Wei Rui, courtesy name Huaiwen, was born in Duling, Jingzhao.
Since becoming prime minister, he has assisted the three surnames. Grandfather Wei Xuan did not want to be an official and lived in seclusion in Nanshan, Chang'an.
When Emperor Wu of the Song Dynasty was on the throne, he once offered a conquest for the Taiwei, but was rejected.
Uncle Wei Zuzheng was Guang Luxun in the late Song Dynasty.
His father, Wei Zugui, became the chief historian of Ningyuan.
Wei Rui was very filial to his stepmother, so he was praised by the villagers.
The elder brothers Wei Rui and Wei Chan were famous earlier.
Wei Zuan and Wei Rui were very studious, and Wei Cao was pure.
Wei Zuzheng was the county governor and often took Wei Rui to handle official business, treating him as his son.
At that time, Wei Rui's wife, brother-in-law, Wang Cheng, and aunt-in-law, Du Yun, were both well-known in the countryside.
Wei Zuzheng said to Wei Rui: Compared with Cheng and Yun, what do you think?
Wei Rui was too humble to answer.
Zu Zheng said: Your articles may be inferior to theirs, but your knowledge should surpass them, and in terms of participating in national affairs and making contributions to the country, they are not as good as you.
My cousin Du Youwen was the governor of Liangzhou and asked Wei Rui to go with him.
Liangzhou was very prosperous at that time, and most of the people who served as officials there were dismissed for being greedy for money. Although Wei Rui was very young, he was known for his integrity.
In the early years of Song Yongguang, Yuan Yun was appointed as the governor of Yongzhou. When he saw Wei Rui, he felt that he was extraordinary and took him as the chief official.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
抃到州，与邓琬起兵，睿求出为义成郡，故免抃之祸。
后为晋平王左常侍，迁司空桂阳王行参军，随齐司空柳世隆守郢城，拒荆州刺史沈攸之。
攸之平，迁前军中兵参军。
久之，为广德令。
累迁齐兴太守、本州别驾、长水校尉、右军将军。
齐末多故，不欲远乡里，求为上庸太守，加建威将军。
俄而太尉陈显达、护军将军崔慧景频逼京师，民心遑骇，未有所定，西土人谋之于睿。
睿曰： 陈虽旧将，非命世才；崔颇更事，懦而不武。其取赤族也，宜哉！
天下真人，殆兴于吾州矣。
乃遣其二子，自结于高祖。
义兵檄至，睿率郡人伐竹为筏，倍道来赴，有众二千，马二百匹。
translation: 
After Yuan Zhuan arrived in Yongzhou, he and Deng Wan rebelled against the imperial court. Wei Rui requested in advance to serve in Yicheng County, thus avoiding Yuan Yun's disaster.
Later, he served as the Zuo Changshi of King Ping of Jin Dynasty, moved to Sikong Guiyang to join the army, and followed Qi Sikong Liu Shilong to defend Yingcheng and resist the attack of Shen Youzhi, the governor of Jingzhou.
After the Youzhi rebellion was put down, he moved to the former army to join the army.
Much later, he was appointed magistrate of Guangde County.
He moved to Qixing prefect, Benzhou Biejia, Changshui captain, and general of the right army.
In the last years of the Qi Dynasty, the situation was in turmoil. Wei Rui did not want to stay away from his hometown, so he asked to be appointed as Shangyong Prefect and become a general in Wei.
Soon the Taiwei Chen Haoda and the guard general Cui Huijing rebelled against the imperial court and frequently invaded Jiankang, the capital. Everyone was frightened and at a loss.
People from Shu asked Wei San about the current situation, and Wei Shu said: Although Chen Xianda is a veteran, he is not a talented person in governing the world; Cui Huijing knows some things, but is cowardly and lacks courage. They should end up with a reduced clan.
The people who will bring peace to the world will probably come from our state.
So, he sent his two sons to take the initiative to make friends with Gaozu.
When Emperor Gaozu's call for an army came out, Wei San led his county soldiers to cut down bamboos and make bamboo rafts. They traveled day and night to join in, bringing a total of more than 2,000 people and 200 horses.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
高祖见睿甚悦，拊几曰： 他日见君之面，今日见君之心，吾事就矣。
义师克郢、鲁，平加湖，睿多建谋策，皆见纳用。
大军发郢，谋留守将，高祖难其人；久之，顾睿曰： 弃骐骥而不乘，焉遑遑而更索？
即日以为冠军将军、江夏太守，行郢府事。初，郢城之拒守也，男女口垂十万，闭垒经年，疾疫死者十七八，皆积尸于床下，而生者寝处其上，每屋辄盈满。
睿料简隐恤，咸为营理，于是死者得埋藏，生者反居业，百姓赖之。
梁台建，征为大理。
高祖即位，迁廷尉，封都梁子，邑三百户。
天监二年，改封永昌，户邑如先。
东宫建，迁太子右卫率，出为辅国将军、豫州刺史、领历阳太守。
translation: 
Emperor Gaozu was very happy to see Wei San who had come to seek refuge. He took pictures of a few cases and said, "I saw you before, but today I see your sincerity. My great mission will definitely succeed."
The rebel army conquered Ying and Lu and pacified Jiahu. Wei Guan proposed many strategies, all of which were adopted by Gaozu.
The Eastern Expedition army was about to set off from Yingcheng. When discussing the candidates for the generals who would stay in Yingcheng, Gaozu found it difficult to determine. After a long time, he turned back to Wei San and said: Give up a good horse without riding it. Where to look for it in such a hurry?
On that day, he was appointed as the champion general and the prefect of Jiangxia to handle the affairs of Ying Prefecture. When Ying City was defended, there were nearly 100,000 scholars, men and women, and the city gates were closed for nearly a year. The plague was prevalent in the city, and seven or eight out of ten people contracted the disease and died. The corpses were piled under the bed, and the living people slept on the bed. Every house was filled with corpses.
Wei Fu personally counted and inspected and comforted those who were still alive. They all cook for him so that the dead can be buried and the living can return to their hometowns to live and work in peace and contentment, so the people all depend on him.
After the establishment of the Liang Dynasty, Wei Fan was conquered as Dali.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, he moved to the rank of Tingwei and was enfeoffed as the capital of Liangzi, with a settlement of 300 households.
In the second year of Tianjian, the title was changed to Yongchang, and the city was as before.
The prince is established. He moved to the right guard of the crown prince and became the general of the auxiliary state, the governor of Yuzhou, and the governor of Liyang.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
三年，魏遣众来寇，率州兵击走之。
四年，王师北伐，诏睿都督众军。
睿遣长史王超宗、梁郡太守冯道根攻魏小岘城，未能拔。
睿巡行围栅，魏城中忽出数百人陈于门外，睿欲击之，诸将皆曰： 向本轻来，未有战备，徐还授甲，乃可进耳。
睿曰： 不然。
魏城中二千余人，闭门坚守，足以自保，无故出人于外，必其骁勇者也，若能挫之，其城自拔。
众犹迟疑，睿指其节曰； 朝廷授此，非以为饰，韦睿之法，不可犯也。
乃进兵。
士皆殊死战，魏军果败走，因急攻之，中宿而城拔。
遂进讨合肥。
先是，右军司马胡略等至合肥，久未能下，睿按行山川，曰： 吾闻 汾水可以灌平阳，绛水可以灌安邑 ，即此是也。
translation: 
Three years later, the Northern Wei army invaded the border area, and Wei San led the state troops to repel the enemy troops.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, the king's army made a northern expedition and ordered Wei San to lead the army.
Wei Jiang sent Chief Shi Wangchaozong and Liangjun Governor Feng Daogen to attack Xiaoxian City in the Northern Wei Dynasty, but failed to capture it.
When Wei San was patrolling the position, hundreds of enemy soldiers suddenly rushed out of Wei City and set up a formation outside the city gate. Wei He wanted to attack them. All the generals said: "We came here lightly armed and were not well prepared for battle. We should go back and give the soldiers armor first, and then we can attack."
Wei San said: No.
There are more than 2,000 enemy defenders in Wei City. If they defend behind closed doors, they can protect themselves. Now they rush out of the city for no reason. They must be their elite warriors. If they can be defeated, the enemy city will be defeated without attacking.
The generals still hesitated to comply. Wei Shu pointed to the talisman and said: "The imperial court gave me this thing, not for decoration. I, Wei Min, must not disobey my military orders."
So he marched to attack.
The soldiers fought desperately, but the Soviet army was defeated and fled, so they launched a fierce attack on Xiaoxian City and captured Xiaoxian City in the middle of the night.
Then, he marched against Hedan.
It turned out that Sima Chaolue and others from the right army attacked Hefei, but could not take it for a long time. Wei He inspected the local mountains and terrain. Said: I heard that water can be used to water Mangyang and seam rice can be used to water Anken. This is the terrain of Zaobao.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
乃堰肥水，亲自表率，顷之，堰成水通，舟舰继至。
魏初分筑东西小城夹合肥，睿先攻二城。
既而魏援将扬灵胤帅军五万奄至，众惧不敌，请表益兵。
睿笑曰： 贼已至城下，方复求军，临难铸兵，岂及马腹？
且吾求济师，彼亦征众，犹如吴益巴丘，蜀增白帝耳。 师克在和不在众 ，古之义也。
因与战，破之，军人少安。
初，肥水堰立，使军主王怀静筑城于岸守之，魏攻陷怀静城，千余人皆没。
魏人乘胜至睿堤下，其势甚盛，军监潘灵祐劝睿退还巢湖，诸将又请走保三叉。
睿怒曰： 宁有此邪！将军死绥，有前无却。
translation: 
So it was decided to build a weir to stop Danmi, and relatives set an example. Soon, the weir and dam were built, the waterway was connected, and boats came one after another.
In the Northern Wei Dynasty, Shu and west small towns were built to protect the golden gallbladder. Tong He captured these two small towns first.
Not long after, Northern Wei reinforcements general Yang Lingyin suddenly arrived with fifty thousand troops. Everyone was afraid of losing to the Wei army and asked the court to send more reinforcements.
Wei Shu smiled and said: "The enemy has already reached the city, and we just ask for more troops. It's like we just forge weapons when we are in danger. How can we not have time?"
Moreover, when I asked for more troops, the other side also increased their troops, just like the state of Wu raised the height of Baqiu. The Shu Kingdom is as tall as the White Emperor. The most important thing in using military force is to win by surprise, not in large numbers. This has been the truth since ancient times.
So he fought with Yang Lingyin and defeated him, which calmed the morale of the army a little.
At first, after Wei San built the Feishui Weir, he sent his military leader Wang Huaijing to build a castle on the bank to protect the weir. The Northern Wei army captured Huaijing City and more than a thousand people were sunk.
Taking advantage of the victory, the Wei soldiers attacked Wei San's embankment. The force was very fierce. Pan Lingyou, the military supervisor, persuaded Wei San to retreat to Chao Lake, and the generals requested to retreat to protect Sancha.
Wei San was furious and said: "How can there be such a reason to lead the army to fight to the end, only to advance and not to retreat?"


Chunk 9: 
original: 
因令取伞扇麾幢，树之堤下，示无动志。
睿素羸，每战未尝骑马，以板舆自载，督厉众军。
魏兵来凿堤，睿亲与争之，魏军少却，因筑垒于堤以自固。
睿起斗舰，高与合肥城等，四面临之。
魏人计穷，相与悲哭。
睿攻具既成，堰水又满，魏救兵无所用。
魏守将杜元伦登城督战，中弩死，城遂溃。
俘获万余级，牛马万数，绢满十间屋，悉充军赏。
睿每昼接客旅，夜算军书，三更起张灯达曙，抚循其众，常如不及，故投募之士争归之。
所至顿舍修立，馆宇籓篱墙壁，皆应准绳。
合肥既平，高祖诏众军进次东陵。
东陵去魏甓城二十里，将会战，有诏班师。
去贼既近，惧为所蹑，睿悉遣辎重居前，身乘小舆殿后，魏人服睿威名，望之不敢逼，全军而还。
translation: 
He ordered people to fetch umbrellas, fans and military flags, and set them up at the foot of the embankment to express his unwavering determination.
Wei San had always been weak and could not ride a horse to command every battle. Instead, he would ride on a board to supervise and encourage the soldiers.
The Wei army came to attack the embankment. Wei San personally commanded his troops to fight with the Wei army. As soon as the Wei army retreated, they immediately built a fort on the embankment to hold on.
Wei San built a battleship, the height of which was equal to the Hefei city wall, to besiege Hefei city from all sides.
The people of Wei had no choice but to cry.
Wei San had prepared siege equipment, and the water in the weir was full of water, but the reinforcements from the Northern Wei Dynasty were of no use.
Wei guard general Du Yuanlun personally went to the city to supervise the battle, but was shot by a crossbow and died. The army collapsed and the city fell.
The Liang army captured more than 10,000 Wei soldiers, tens of thousands of cattle and horses, and enough silk to fill ten rooms, all of which were used as military rewards.
Wei San often received visitors during the day and studied military books at night. He would get up at midnight and light up the lamp to read until dawn, comforting the soldiers. He was always meticulous and always feared that he would fail, so the people who were recruited rushed to join him.
The specifications and standards of the places where he lived and the walls of his houses and buildings were in compliance with regulations.
After the city of Hefei was pacified, Emperor Gaozu ordered all troops to march to Shuling.
Shuling is twenty miles away from Zongcheng in the Northern Wei Dynasty. The two armies are about to fight, and an order is sent to let the troops return.
The enemy army was already very close, and the generals were worried that the Northern Wei army would pursue them later. Wei San arranged for all the baggage to be carried forward, and he rode a small car to the rear. The Northern Wei army was intimidated by Wei Ji's reputation and watched the Liang army retreat without daring to approach. The Liang army all returned safely.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
至是迁豫州于合肥。
五年，魏中山王元英寇北徐州，围刺史昌义之于钟离，众号百万，连城四十余。
高祖遣征北将军曹景宗，都督众军二十万以拒之。
次邵阳洲，筑垒相守，高祖诏睿率豫州之众会焉。
睿自合肥迳道由阴陵大泽行，值涧谷，辄飞桥以济。
师人畏魏军盛，多劝睿缓行。
睿曰： 钟离今凿穴而处，负户而汲，车驰卒奔，犹恐其后，而况缓乎！魏人已堕吾腹中，卿曹勿忧也。
旬日而至邵阳。
初，高祖敕景宗曰： 韦睿，卿之乡望，宜善敬之。
景宗见睿，礼甚谨。
高祖闻之，曰： 二将和，师必济矣。
睿于景宗营前二十里，夜掘长堑，树鹿角，截洲为城，比晓而营立。
translation: 
Therefore, the Liang Dynasty moved the Yuzhou administrative office to Hefei.
In the fifth year, the tomb of King Wei Shishan invaded Jiutuye and besieged the governor Kenzhan in the fort. Pan's army numbered one million and built more than 40 castles.
Chandan sent the Northern Conqueror General Xuan Jisai to lead an army of 200,000 to rescue.
Xuan Jisai led his army to temporarily stationed at Yingkenbisui, built a fort, and waited and defended. Emperor Gaozu ordered Wei Shu to lead the Yuzhou army to join him.
Huanghe took a straight road from Jindan and passed through Luolu Daze. When encountering mountain streams and gorges, a flying bridge was erected to allow the army to pass.
Everyone was afraid that Jipan's army would be strong, so they all persuaded Tong He to slow down his march.
But Tong He said: Zhong Zhengcheng is now digging holes to live, and is in an extremely critical situation. Even if our chariots and horses are speeding, and our soldiers are running, we may not be able to make it in time, let alone slowing down. The people of the Northern Wei Dynasty are already under my control, so don't worry.
The army arrived at Dancheng in ten days.
At the beginning, Shandan warned Jian Moji: Huang He is a famous person in your hometown, and you should respect him well.
When Liang Sai met the emperor, he was very respectful.
After Emperor Gaozu learned about it, he said: If the two generals reconcile, the army will definitely win.
Twenty miles in front of Cao Jingzong's camp, Tong He dug a long ditch overnight, erected antlers in it, intercepted Shaoyangzhou, and built a fortress. By daybreak, the military camp was completed.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
元英大惊，以杖击地曰： 是何神也！
明旦，英自率众来战，睿乘素木舆，执白角如意麾军，一日数合，英甚惮其强。
魏军又夜来攻城，飞矢雨集，睿子黯请下城以避箭，睿不许。
军中惊，睿于城上厉声呵之，乃定。
魏人先于邵阳洲两岸为两桥，树栅数百步，跨淮通道。
睿装大舰，使梁郡太守冯道根、庐江太守裴邃、秦郡太守李文钊等为水军。
值淮水暴长，睿即遣之，斗舰竞发，皆临敌垒。以小船载草，灌之以膏，从而焚其桥。
风怒火盛，烟尘晦冥，敢死之士，拔栅斫桥，水又漂疾，倏忽之间，桥栅尽坏。
而道根等皆身自搏战，军人奋勇，呼声动天地，无不一当百，魏人大溃。
元英见桥绝，脱身遁去。
魏军趋水死者十余万，斩首亦如之。
其余释甲稽颡，乞为囚奴，犹数十万。
所获军实牛马，不可胜纪。
translation: 
Yuan Ying was shocked when he saw it. He knocked the ground with his staff and said, "What kind of god is this?"
The next morning, Yuan Ying personally led his troops to fight. Tong He rode in an unpainted wooden cart and commanded the army Ruyi with a white horn in his hand. They fought several rounds in one day. Yuan Ying was deeply afraid of the power of the army.
Youji's army attacked the city again at Yexiang. The arrows were as dense as rain. Tong He's son Wei Die asked to go down the city wall to avoid the arrows, but Tong He refused.
The whole army was in panic. Wei San shouted loudly on the city wall, and then the morale of the army calmed down.
Before the war began, the tomb soldiers built two bridges on both sides of the fortress and erected a hundred-step-wide fence across the Huaihe River to connect the two sides.
Wei San equipped himself with tall ships and sent Feng Daogen, the prefect of Liang County, Zhan Sui, the prefect of Lujiang County, and Li Wenzhao, the prefect of Taixing County, as naval troops.
When the Huaihe River surged, Tong He immediately ordered them to attack. Ships of all sizes rushed towards the Wei army, sailed to the enemy's camp, carried firewood in small boats, poured anointing oil on them, and set fire to the enemy's bridges.
The wind was strong and the fire was strong, and the smoke and dust covered the sky and the sun. The brave soldiers pulled out the enemy's fences, cut off the bridges, and the water flow was extremely fast. Suddenly, the bridges and fences were destroyed.
Feng Daogen and others all fought in person. The officers and soldiers all fought bravely to take the lead, one against a hundred. The shouts of killing shook the heaven and the earth, and the Wei army was defeated.
Seeing that the bridge was broken, Wu Jie got away and ran away.
The soldiers of the Wei army rushed into the water and fled. As a result, more than 100,000 people drowned and as many were beheaded.
The rest abandoned their armor and knelt down, kowtowed, and begged to be taken as slaves. There were hundreds of thousands of them.
Liang Jun captured countless military equipment, grain, cattle and horses, etc.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
睿遣报昌义之，义之且悲且喜，不暇答语，但叫曰： 更生！更生！
高祖遣中书郎周舍劳于淮上，睿积所获于军门，舍观之，谓睿曰： 君此获复与熊耳山等。
以功增封七百户，进爵为侯，征通直散骑常侍、右卫将军。
七年，迁左卫将军，俄为安西长史、南郡太守，秩中二千石。
会司州刺史马仙琕北伐还军，为魏人所蹑，三关扰动，诏睿督众军援焉。
睿至安陆，增筑城二丈余，更开大堑，起高楼，众颇讥其示弱。睿曰： 不然，为将当有怯时，不可专勇。
是时元英复追仙琕，将复邵阳之耻，闻睿至，乃退。帝亦诏罢军。
明年，迁信武将军、江州刺史。
九年，征员外散骑常侍、右卫将军，累迁左卫将军、太子詹事，寻加通直散骑常侍。
十三年，迁智武将军、丹阳尹，以公事免。
顷之，起为中护军。
十四年，出为平北将军、宁蛮校尉、雍州刺史。
初，睿起兵乡中，客阴俊光泣止睿，睿还为州，俊光道候睿，睿笑谓之曰： 若从公言，乞食于路矣。
translation: 
Wei Chai sent someone to report to Chang Yi. Chang Yi was filled with joy and sorrow, and was so excited that he couldn't speak. He just shouted: "Be reborn! Be reborn!"
Emperor Gaozu sent his chief minister Zhou She to the Huaihe River to express condolences to the entire army. Wei San piled up the captured supplies in front of the army gate. After Zhou She looked at them, he said to Wei San: "General, the loot you captured this time is as high as Xiong'er Mountain."
According to meritorious deeds, Wei San was granted 700 additional households in the city, promoted to the title of Marquis, and recruited as a regular servant of Tongzhi Sanqi and a right-guard general.
In the seventh year of Tianjian, Wei Shu moved to the left guard general, and soon served as the chief historian of Anxi and the prefect of Nanjun, with a rank of two thousand stones.
It happened that Ma Xianbei, the governor of Sizhou, was returning from the Northern Expedition and was chased by the Wei army, which caused the garrison of Sanguan to become uneasy. Luan Zhidan Shao ordered Tong Zhao to lead his troops to rescue Xingxianbiao.
As soon as Huanghe arrived in Anlu, he built the city wall, raised it to more than two feet, dug a large trench, and built tall buildings. Everyone laughed at Wei Fu. This showed his cowardice. Wei San said: No, when a general should be timid, he cannot show off his bravery for a moment.
When Yuan Ying was dispatched, he was anxious for Ma Xian to escape, wanting to avenge the shame of being trapped. When he heard that the emperor was coming, he withdrew, and Emperor Wu also issued an edict to stop the troops.
In the second year, he moved to General Wu and the governor of Liaozhou.
In the ninth year, he recruited foreign Sanqi regular attendants and right-guard generals. He was repeatedly moved to Zuowei general and Prince Zhanshi, and soon became Tongzhi Sanqi regular attendant.
In the thirteenth year, the official position was moved to General Zhiwu and Danyang Yin. He was dismissed due to official business.
Soon, he was appointed as the Central Guard Army.
Fourteen years after leaving prison, Jihe was promoted to General Pingbei, Colonel Ningman, and Governor of Yuzhou.
At first, when Wei San was raising an army in the countryside, his disciples were embarrassed and cried to dissuade Tong He. Huang He returned home to serve as a state official, and was waiting on the roadside to greet him. Tong He smiled and said to him: If I had listened to you, I would have to beg for a living today.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
饷耕牛十头。
睿于故旧，无所遗惜，士大夫年七十以上，多与假板县令，乡里甚怀之。
十五年，拜表致仕，优诏不许。
十七年，征散骑常侍、护军将军，寻给鼓吹一部，入直殿省。
居朝廷，恂恂未尝忤视，高祖甚礼敬之。性慈爱，抚孤兄子过于己子，历官所得禄赐，皆散之亲故，家无余财。
后为护军，居家无事，慕万石、陆贾之为人，因画之于壁以自玩。
时虽老，暇日犹课诸儿以学。
第三子棱，尤明经史，世称其洽闻，睿每坐棱使说书，其所发擿，棱犹弗之逮也。
高祖方锐意释氏，天下咸从风而化；睿自以信受素薄，位居大臣，不欲与俗俯仰，所行略如他日。
translation: 
Give him ten oxen.
Lei He treated his old friends and never left anyone out of grudges. Scholar-officials over seventy years old were often appointed as false county magistrates, and all the villagers turned to him.
In the fifteenth year of Tianjian's reign, he went to the court and requested to resign. However, Emperor Gaozu issued a commendation from Shao and did not allow him to resign.
In the court, Wei Qiu was extremely docile and respectful, and never dared to look up at the emperor. Gaozu was also very respectful to him.
Tong Su had a kind and kind temperament, and raised his elder brother's orphan more thoughtfully than his own son. All the salary and rewards he received from his previous official positions were from Genzhi's wealthy family. Dun hides away. Scattered among relatives and friends, there are no extra belongings in the house.
Later, he served as a guard for the army and had nothing to do at home. He admired Wan Shi and Lu Mai as people, so he painted their portraits on the soil to admire them for himself.
Although he was already old at that time, he still personally taught several of his sons in his free days.
The third son, Wei Ling, was especially proficient in classics and history. People at the time thought he was knowledgeable and knowledgeable. Wei San was often present and Wei Leng asked him to explain the scriptures. The content he explained was often more insightful than Wei Leng's.
At that time, Emperor Gaozu was concentrating on believing in Buddhism, and the people of the world followed suit; Wei San had always been relatively weak in faith, and he was an official and a minister, so he was unwilling to be influenced by the world, and his behavior was the same as in the past.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
普通元年夏，迁侍中、车骑将军，以疾未拜。
八月，卒于家，时年七十九。
遗令薄葬，敛以时服。
高祖即日临哭甚恸。
赐钱十万，布二百匹，东园秘器，朝服一具，衣一袭，丧事取给于官，遣中书舍人监护。
赠侍中、车骑将军、开府仪同三司。
谥曰严。
初，邵阳之役，昌义之甚德睿，请曹景宗与睿会，因设钱二十万官赌之，景宗掷得雉，睿徐掷得卢，遽取一子反之，曰 异事 ，遂作塞。
景宗时与群帅争先启之捷，睿独居后，其不尚胜，率多如是，世尤以此贤之。
子放、正、棱、黯，放别有传。
正字敬直，起家南康王行参军，稍迁中书侍郎，出为襄阳太守。
translation: 
In the summer of the first year of Liang Pongtong's reign. Wei San moved to serve as a servant and general of chariots and cavalry. Due to illness, he did not pay homage to the official position.
In August, he died at home at the age of seventy-nine.
The will requested that he be buried lightly and encased in ordinary clothes.
Emperor Gaozu came to express his condolences in person today and wept bitterly.
He was given 100,000 yuan in money, 200 pieces of cloth to store the secret utensils in the garden, and a court robe. The funeral expenses were paid by the government, and people from the Zhongshu House were assigned to supervise the execution.
Posthumously presented to the three divisions: Shizhong, Chariot and Cavalry General, and Kaifu Yitong.
Mi's name is Yan.
At the beginning of the Battle of Shaoyang, Chang Yizhi was very grateful to Wei San and invited Cao Jingzong and Wei San to gather together and set up 200,000 yuan to gamble with the government officials. Jingzong threw a pheasant, and Wei San slowly hit a pheasant. He immediately took one and turned it over, saying: "What a strange thing." So it became a plug.
At that time, Cao Jingzong competed with other generals to win first, and Wei Shu came second. He did not like to boast about his victories, which was the case in most cases. The world especially praised him for this.
Wei San's sons include Wei Fang, Wei Zheng, Wei Ling, and Wei An. Wei Fang has another biography.
Wei Zheng, whose courtesy name was Jingzhi, started his career as King Xing of Nankang and joined the army. Soon he was moved to the position of minister of Zhongshu and became the governor of Xiangyang.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
初，正与东海王僧孺友善，及僧孺为尚书吏部郎，参掌大选，宾友故人莫不倾意，正独澹然。
及僧孺摈废之后，正复笃素分，有逾曩日，论者称焉。
历官至给事黄门侍郎。
棱字威直，性恬素，以书史为业，博物强记，当世之士，咸就质疑。
起家安成王府行参军，稍迁治书侍御史，太子仆，光禄卿。
著《汉书续训》三卷。
黯字务直，性强正，少习经史，有文词。
起家太子舍人，稍迁太仆卿，南豫州刺史，太府卿。
侯景济江，黯屯六门，寻改为都督城西面诸军事。
时景于城外起东西二土山，城内亦作以应之，太宗亲自负土，哀太子以下躬执畚锸。
黯守西土山，昼夜苦战，以功授轻车将军，加持节。
translation: 
In the past, Wei Zheng was very friendly with King Shuhai, Seng Ru. When Seng Ru was a minister and participated in the imperial election, all the guests and friends fawned over him, but Wei Zheng took it indifferently.
After Seng Ru was expelled and dismissed from office, Wei Zheng deepened his friendship with him, even more than before, and people praised his behavior.
He held various official positions until he served as the Minister of Huangmen.
Wei Leng was an upright person with a calm and simple temperament. He served as a historian who recorded events. He was knowledgeable and well-informed. Scholars at the time asked him to answer difficult questions.
Wei Leng started his career in Prince Ancheng's palace and joined the army. Soon he was moved to serve as the official secretary and censor, the prince's servant, and Guanglu Qing.
He is the author of three volumes of "Xu Xun of Hanshu".
Wei An was a man of straightforward writing and upright character. He studied classics and history in his youth and was quite talented in literature.
He started as a prince and gave up his family, and soon moved to the position of Taifuqing, governor of Southern Yuzhou, and Taifuqing.
Hou Jing crossed the Yangtze River, and Wei An stationed troops in six gates. Soon he was appointed as the military commander in Xigang, the governor city.
At that time, Hou Jing built two earth mountains on the east and west outside the city, and two earth mountains were built inside the city to compete with them. Taizong personally carried the earth, and all the officials from Prince Ai on down personally picked up dustpans, shovels, and shovels to participate in building the earth.
Wei An was responsible for defending Tushan in the west of the city. He fought hard day and night. For his merits in resisting the enemy, he was awarded the title of "General of Light Chariots" and "Blessing Festival".


Chunk 16: 
original: 
卒于城内，赠散骑常侍、左卫将军。
睿族弟爱。
爱字孝友，沈静有器局。
高祖父广，晋后军将军、北平太守。
曾祖轨，以孝武太元之初，南迁襄阳，为本州别驾，散骑侍郎。
祖公循，宋义阳太守。
父义正，早卒。
爱少而偏孤，事母以孝闻。
性清介，不妄交游，而笃志好学，每虚室独坐，游心坟素，而埃尘满席，寂若无人。
年十二，尝游京师，值天子出游南苑，邑里喧哗，老幼争观，爱独端坐读书，手不释卷，宗族见者，莫不异焉。
及长，博学有文才，尤善《周易》及《春秋左氏》义。
袁抃为雍州刺史，辟为主簿。
遭母忧，庐于墓侧，负土起坟。
高祖临雍州，闻之，亲往临吊。
translation: 
When he died in the city, he was given posthumously as a regular attendant of Sanqi and a general of left guard.
Wei Ai, younger brother of Wei San clan.
Wei Ai, whose nickname is Xiaoyou, is calm and thoughtful.
His great-great-grandfather Wei Guang was a general in the rear army of the Jin Dynasty and the prefect of Beiping.
Great-grandfather Wei Gui moved south to Xiangyang in the early Taiyuan years of Emperor Guiwu's reign in the east, where he served as the minister of the local cavalry and scattered cavalry.
His grandfather, Wei Gongxun, served as the prefect of Yiyang in Song Dynasty.
His father, Wei Yizheng, passed away at an early age.
Wei Ai lost his father when he was young. He served his mother very filially and became famous for this.
Wei Aiqing was an upright and upright man who did not want to socialize and was dedicated to learning. He always sat alone in a shabby room, studying ancient books. The tables and chairs in the room were covered with dust and it was as quiet as if there was no one there.
When I was twelve years old, I visited the capital and happened to catch up with the emperor's trip to Nanyuan. The streets and alleys were bustling with people, old and young, vying to see him. Only Wei Ai was still sitting upright reading without letting go of the book. The tribesmen were surprised to see him like this.
When he grew up, he was erudite and talented in literature, especially proficient in the principles of Zhouyi and Chunqiu Zuoshi.
When Yuan Zhuan was the governor of Yongzhou, he recruited him to be the chief register.
When his mother passed away, he built a hut next to the tomb to live in and carried the soil to build the tomb himself.
Emperor Gaozu went to Yongzhou and after hearing about this incident, he went to express his condolences in person.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
服阕，引为中兵参军。
义师之起也，以爱为壮武将军、冠军南平王司马，带襄阳令。
时京邑未定，雍州空虚，魏兴太守颜僧都等据郡反，州内惊扰，百姓携贰。
爱沉敏有谋，素为州里信伏，乃推心抚御，晓示逆顺；兼率募乡里，得千余人，与僧都等战于始平郡南，大破之，百姓乃安。
萧颖胄之死也，和帝征兵襄阳，爱从始兴王憺赴焉。
先是，巴东太守萧璝、巴东太守鲁休烈举兵来逼荆州，及憺至，令爱书谕之，璝即日请降。
中兴二年，从和帝东下。
translation: 
After three years of mourning, he was drafted into the army.
When Emperor Gaozu's rebel army just started, he appointed Wei Ai as a strong general, champion Nanping Wang Sima, and led Xiangyang County Magistrate.
At that time, the capital had not yet been pacified, and Yongzhou's military equipment was empty. Yan Sengdu, the prefect of Wei Xing, and others occupied the prefectures and counties to resist the rebels. The people in the state were panicked and had two minds.
Wei Ai was calm, alert and strategic. He had always been convinced by the army and the people of the state. He confided in his heart to appease the people and analyzed the changes in the situation between the enemy and ourselves. He also recruited warriors from the countryside and got more than a thousand people. He launched a fierce battle with the rebels such as Sengdu and others in the southern part of Shiping County. He defeated the enemy and the people were able to settle down.
After Xiao Yingzhou's death, Emperor Qi He recruited soldiers in Xiangyang, and Wei Ai followed Xiao Dan, the king of Shixing, to apply for the army.
Before the war, Xiao Suo, the governor of Badong, and Lu Xiulie, the governor of Brazil, invaded Jingzhou. After Xiao Qi arrived, he ordered Wei Ai to write a letter to Xiao Suo, and Xiao Suo immediately asked for surrender.
In the second year of the reign of Emperor Zhongxing of Qi Dynasty, he followed Emperor He and sent him to Xia along the Yangtze River.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
高祖受禅，进号辅国将军，仍为骁骑将军，寻除宁蜀太守，与益州刺史邓元起西上袭刘季连，行至公安，道病卒，赠卫尉卿。
子乾向，官至骁骑将军，征北长史，汝阴、钟离二郡太守。
陈吏部尚书姚察曰：昔窦融以河右归汉，终为盛族；柳惔举南郑响从，而家声弗霣，时哉！忱之谋画，亦用有成，智矣。
韦睿起上庸以附义，其地比惔则薄，及合肥、邵阳之役，其功甚盛，推而弗有，君子哉！
translation: 
After Emperor Gaozu was enthroned by Zen, Wei Aijin was given the title of General of the Auxiliary State, and he was still a general of Qiaoqi. Soon he was appointed as the prefect of Ningshu. Together with Deng Yuanqi, the governor of Yizhou, he went west to attack Liu Jilian. When they marched to Gong'an, Wei Ai died of illness on the way, leaving Wei Wei Qing.
His son Wei Qianxiang was promoted to General Xiaoqi, and served as the governor of Changshi and Ruyin and Zhongli counties in the north.
Yao Cha, the Minister of Chen's Ministry of Civil Affairs, said: In the past, Dou Rong moved the land on the right side of the river to submit to the Han Dynasty, and eventually became a wealthy family; Liu Hui led Nanzheng to respond to Gaozu's righteous deeds, and the reputation of his family for generations has not been ruined, all because it was in line with the trend of the times. Liu Chen's plans were also very effective, which is a reflection of his wisdom.
Wei San led the mediocre troops to join Gaozu. His place was smaller than Liu Hui's, but after the battles of Hefei and Shaoyang, his achievements were even more remarkable, but he did not take any credit or be arrogant. What a gentleman!


