Chunk 0: 
original: 
张晧子纲王龚子畅种暠子岱子拂挮子劭陈球
张晧字叔明，犍为武阳人也。六世祖良，高帝时为太子少傅，封留侯。告少游学京师，永元中，归仕州郡，辟大将军邓骘府，五迁尚书仆射，职事八年，出为彭城相。
永宁元年，征拜廷尉。
晧虽非法家，而留心刑断，数与尚书辩正疑狱，多以详当见从。
时安帝废皇太子为济阴王，晧与太常桓焉、太仆来历廷争之，不能得。
事已具《来历传》。
退而上疏曰： 昔贼臣江充，造构谗逆，至令戾园兴兵，终及祸难。
后壶关三老一言，上乃觉悟，虽追前失，悔之何逮！
今皇太子春秋方始十岁，未见保傅九德之义，宜简贤辅，就成圣质。
书奏不省。
及顺帝即位，拜晧司空，在事多所荐达，天下称其推士。
时清河赵腾上言灾变，讥刺朝政，章下有司，收腾系考，所引党辈八十余人，皆以诽谤当伏重法。
晧上疏谏曰： 臣闻尧舜立敢谏之鼓，三王树诽谤之木，《春秋》采善书恶，圣主不罪刍荛。
腾等虽干上犯法，所言本欲尽忠正谏。
如当诛戮，天下杜口，塞谏争之源，非所以昭德示后也。
帝乃悟，减腾死罪一等，余皆司寇。
四年，以阴阳不和策免。
阳嘉元年，复为廷尉。
其年卒官，时年八十三。
遣使者吊祭，赐葬地于河南县。
子纲。
纲字文纪。少明经学。
虽为公子，而厉布衣之节。
举孝廉不就，司徒辟高第为侍御史。
时顺帝委纵宦官，有识危心。
translation: 
◆Zhang Hao's biography, Zhang Hao's courtesy name was Shuming, and he was a native of Wuyang, Qianwei County. Zhang Liang, the sixth generation ancestor, was the prince's young master during the reign of Emperor Gao and was granted the title of Liuhou.
When Zhang Hao was young, he traveled to the capital to study. In Yongyuanzhong, he returned to the prefecture and served as an official. He established the mansion of General Deng Zhi. He was promoted to Shangshu Pushe five times and served for eight years before becoming the prime minister of Pengcheng.
In the first year of Yongning, he was promoted to Tingwei.
Although Zhang Hao was not a Legalist, he paid attention to punishment and imprisonment, and often argued with ministers to correct doubts and doubts. Most of his opinions were adopted after careful consideration.
At this time, Emperor An deposed the crown prince as King of Jiyin, and Zhang Hao argued with Taichang Huanyan and Taipu about the origins of the throne in the court, but to no avail.
The matter has been recorded in the Biography of Origin.
Zhang Hao withdrew from the imperial court and wrote: "In the past, Jiang Chong, a traitor, made slanderous rumors and rebels, causing the military garden to raise troops, and finally disaster occurred."
Later, Linghu Mao, the third elder of Huguan, wrote a letter saying that the prince had been wronged, and Emperor Wu realized that although he could catch up on his previous mistakes, regretting it would be of no use!
Now that the crown prince is only ten years old, he still does not know the meaning of the nine virtues of the nanny master. He should choose virtuous people to assist him so that he can become the emperor.
The book was submitted but was not accepted.
Emperor Shun ascended the throne and appointed Zhang Hao as Sikong. He promoted many talents in office and the world called him a pusher.
At this time, Zhao Teng of Qinghe wrote a letter about the disaster, ridiculed the government, reported to those in charge, and arrested Zhao Teng and others for questioning. More than 80 party members were involved, all of whom should be severely punished for slandering the imperial court.
Zhang Hao's admonishment was: I heard that Yao and Shun set up drums for remonstrance, and three kings set up slander trees. The Spring and Autumn Annals collect good things and write about bad things, and the wise emperor does not inflict crimes on the common people in the grass.
Although Zhao Teng and others violated the law and violated the law, he spoke out of loyalty and integrity.
If he should be killed, the mouths of the people in the world would be blocked, and the source of remonstrances and disputes would be blocked. This is not a way to promote morality and set an example for future generations.
The emperor came to his senses and reduced Zhao Teng's death sentence to one degree, and the others were sentenced to two years of imprisonment.
Four years later, he was removed from office due to disagreement between yin and yang.
In the first year of Yangjia, he was promoted to Tingwei again.
He died in office this year at the age of eighty-three.
The imperial court sent envoys to offer condolences and gave him a burial place in Henan County.
Son Zhang Gang.
◆Zhang Gang's biography, Zhang Gang's courtesy name was Wen Ji, and he was proficient in Confucian classics when he was young.
Although he is a young master, he strictly enforces the integrity of common people.
If he was not praised for his filial piety and honesty, Situ, because of his excellent performance, appointed Gaodi as the imperial censor.
At this time, Emperor Shun indulged the eunuchs, which chilled the hearts of knowledgeable people.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
纲常感激，慨然叹曰： 秽恶满朝，不能奋身出命埽国家之难，虽生，吾不愿也。
退而上书曰：《诗》曰： 不愆不忘，率由旧章。
寻大汉初隆，及中兴之世，文、明二帝，德化尤盛。
观其礼为，易循易见，但恭俭守节，约身尚德而已。
中官常侍不过两人，近幸赏赐裁满数金，惜费重人，故家给人足。
夷狄闻中国优富，任信道德，所以奸谋自消而和气感应。
而皆者以来，不遵旧典，无功小人皆有官爵，富之骄之而复害之，非爱人重器，承天顺道者也。
伏愿陛下少留圣思，割损左右，以奉天心。
书奏不省。
汉安元年，选遣八使徇行风俗，皆耆儒知名，多历显位，唯纲年少，官次最微。
余人受命之部，而纲独埋其车轮于洛阳都亭，曰： 豺狼当路，安问狐狸！
遂奏曰： 大将军冀，河南尹不疑，蒙外戚之援，荷国厚恩，以刍荛之资，居阿衡之任，不能敷扬五教，翼赞日月，而专为封豕长蛇，肆其食叨，甘心好货，纵恣无底，多树谄谀，以害忠良。
诚天威所不赦，大辟所宜加也。
谨条其无君之心十五事，斯皆臣子所切齿者也。
书御，京师震竦。
时，冀妹为皇后，内宠方盛，诸梁姻族满朝，帝虽知纲言直，终不忍用。
时，广陵贼张婴等众数万人，杀刺史、二千石，寇乱扬、徐间，积十余年，朝廷不能讨。
冀乃讽尚书，以纲为广陵太守，因欲以事中之。
前遣郡守，率多求兵马，纲独请单车之职。
既到，乃将吏卒十余人，径造婴垒，以慰安之，求得与长老相见，申示国恩。
婴初大惊，既见纲诚信，乃出拜谒。
纲延置上坐，问所疾苦。
translation: 
Zhang Gang was excited and sighed with emotion: "The dynasty is full of filth and filth. I cannot step forward to eliminate the country's danger. Even though I am alive, I don't want to!"
So he wrote: "The Book of Songs" says: Don't make mistakes and don't forget, follow the old chapter.
It is said that Cheng Wang Lingde is just following the old regulations. The Han Dynasty was initially prosperous, and during the Zhongxing era, Emperor Wen and Emperor Ming had more prosperous moral education.
Looking at the governance measures at that time, it is obvious that it is not difficult to follow them, but it is just about promoting frugality, adhering to economy, and cultivating one's morality.
A middle official can only serve two people, and the people who serve on the left and right are rewarded with only a few gold coins. He cherishes expenses and respects people, so every family is rich.
Everyone has food and clothing. Yi Di knows that China is prosperous and strong, and upholds trust and morality, so treacherous plots are naturally eliminated and harmony is induced.
But recently, those who do not abide by the old rules and have no merit have been given official titles, making them rich, making them arrogant, and then punishing them. This is not loving people and valuing talents, flattering destiny, and obeying the great road.
Please give your Majesty some holy thought and organize your affairs in order to serve God's will.
The book was sent, but the emperor did not accept it.
In the first year of Han'an, eight envoys were selected to inspect social customs. They were all well-known old Confucian scholars with high status. Only Zhang Gang is young and has the lowest rank.
The rest of the people accepted the order and set off, but Zhang Gang buried his wheel alone in Duting, Luoyang, saying: "The jackals are in charge, why ask the fox!"
The report said: General Liang Ji, Henan Yin Bujie, cited by his relatives, enjoys the country's kindness, is a talent of the common people, and has the responsibility of tutoring the emperor and conducting state affairs. He cannot promote the five religions and support the emperor. He specializes in being a big pig and a snake. He is the chief culprit. He is greedy and cruel, devoted to good things, and indulges in unbridled and unbridled people. He cultivates a group of sycophants and frames Zhongliang.
This is something that cannot be pardoned by the emperor's authority and should be punished with death.
I would like to mention fifteen things about their unruly attitude, all of which are hated by the ministers.
The book came in and the capital was shocked.
At this time, Liang Ji's sister was the queen and was favored by the emperor. Zhu Liang's relatives were all over the court. Although the emperor knew that Zhang Gang was telling the truth, he finally couldn't bear to accept it.
At this time, Guangling thief Zhang Ying and tens of thousands of people killed the governor and two thousand stones, invaded and disturbed Yang and Xu Jian, and for more than ten years, the imperial court was unable to attack them.
Liang Ji then hinted to the minister to appoint Zhang Gang as the prefect of Guangling, hoping to attack and frame him.
In the past, the county guards sent there usually asked the court for more troops and horses, so Zhang Gang sent a bicycle alone to take office.
After arriving, he took only a dozen officials and soldiers to Zhang Ying's position, comforted them, and asked to meet their leader to explain the country's kindness to them.
Zhang Ying was surprised at first and saw Zhang Gang's sincerity, so he came out to pay Zhang Gang a visit.
Zhang Gang was invited to take a seat. Zhang Gang asked Zhang Ying what difficulties he had.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
乃譬之曰：前后二千石多肆贪暴，故致公等怀愤相聚。
二千石信有罪矣，然为之者又非义也。
今主上仁圣，欲以文德服叛，故遣太守，思以爵禄相荣，不愿以刑罚相加，今诚转祸为福之时也。
若闻义不服，天子赫然震怒，荆、扬、兗、豫大兵云合，岂不危乎？
若不料强弱，非明也；充善取恶，非智也；去顺效逆，非忠也；身绝血嗣，非孝也；背正从邪，非直也；见义不为，非勇也；六者成败之几，利害所从，公其深计之。
婴闻，泣下，曰： 荒裔愚人，不能自通朝廷，不堪侵枉，遂复相聚偷生，若鱼游釜中，喘息须臾间耳。
今闻明府之言，乃婴等更生之辰也。
既陷不义，实恐投兵之日，不免孥戮。
纲约之以天地，誓之以日月，婴深感悟，乃辞还营。
明日，将所部万余人与妻子面缚归降。
纲乃单车入婴垒，大会，置酒为乐，散遣部众，任从所之；亲为卜居宅，相田畴；子弟欲为吏者，皆引召之。
人情悦服，南州晏然。
朝廷论功当封，梁冀遏绝，乃止。
天子嘉美，征欲擢用纲，而婴等上书乞留，乃许之。
纲在郡一年，年四十六卒。
百姓老幼相携，诣府赴哀者不可胜数。
纲自被疾，吏人咸为祠祀祈福，皆言 千秋万岁，何时复见此君 。
张婴等五百余人制服行丧，送到犍为，负土成坟。
诏曰： 故广陵太守张纲，大臣之苗，剖符统务，正身导下，班宣德信，降集剧贼张婴万人，息干戈之役，济蒸庶之困，未升显爵，不幸早卒。
婴等缞杖，若丧考妣，朕甚愍焉！
拜纲子续为郎中，赐钱百万。
translation: 
Xiao Yu Zhang Ying said: In the past, most of the two thousand stones were corrupt and cruel, so that the public officials gathered together with anger.
Erqianshi is truly guilty! However, it is also unjust for you to do so.
Now the emperor is kind and wise, and wants to use virtue to quell the rebellion, so he sent me. I think if you can take it as an honor to receive the country's title and salary, I will not be willing to impose punishment on you. Now is really your time to turn misfortune into blessing!
If you know what you should do, but still disobey the court, the emperor will be furious, and soldiers from Jing, Yang, Yan, and Yu will gather. Isn't it dangerous?
If you do not measure the strong and the weak, this is ignorance; if you abandon the good and adopt the evil, this is unwise; if you disobey and follow the example of rebellion, this is disloyal; if you die without heirs, this is unfilial; if you follow evil anyway, this is not straight; if you do not do what is right, this is not courageous. These six points are the key to success or failure. The interests and benefits are interdependent. You can think about it deeply.
After hearing this, Zhang Ying burst into tears and said: "Ignorant people in the remote areas cannot communicate with the court and cannot bear the oppression and bullying of the officials. As a last resort, everyone gathers together and ekes out an ignoble existence, just like a fish swimming in a cauldron, just taking a breather for a while."
Now, after listening to the prefect’s words, it’s time for me, Zhang Ying, to be reborn.
However, since he has fallen into injustice, he is afraid that he will be arrested and killed on the day of surrender.
Zhang Gang made a promise that he would not change forever, and he swore by the light of the sun and moon. Zhang Ying was deeply moved, so he resigned from Zhang Gang and returned to camp.
The next day, more than 10,000 people surrendered face to face with their wives.
Zhang Gangyu rode a bicycle into Zhang Ying's camp, held a meeting, drank and had fun, dismissed the troops, and let everyone go wherever he wanted. He personally found houses for the dismissed personnel and inspected the fields. His sons who wanted to be officials were summoned and summoned.
The favor is pleasing to the eye, and Nanzhou is safe and sound.
The imperial court decided to confer Zhang Gang on merit, but Liang Ji stopped him and refused to do so.
Emperor Jiamei wanted to recruit and promote Zhang Gang. Zhang Ying and others wrote a letter requesting that Zhang Gang be allowed to stay in Guangling, and the court approved their request.
Zhang Gang stayed in the county for one year and died at the age of forty-six.
The common people supported the old and young, and countless people came to the county government to mourn.
Since Zhang Gang fell ill, the officials have prayed for him and said, "Long live Qianqiu, when will I see you again?"
Zhang Ying and more than 500 people dressed in mourning clothes went all the way to Jianwei, where they carried earth and built the tomb.
The imperial court issued an edict saying: Zhang Gang, the late prefect of Guangling, a descendant of the minister, was ordered by the emperor to manage affairs, set an example, induced subordinates, promulgated and publicized the country's moral credit, and made the great thief Zhang Ying lead more than 10,000 people to surrender, eliminating the disaster of war and relieving the hardship of the people. Unfortunately, he died early without being promoted to a high position.
Zhang Ying and others were dressed in mourning clothes and holding mourning sticks, as if their parents had died.
I was very sad about his death. Zhang Gang's son Zhang Xu was made a doctor and given millions of dollars.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
王龚字伯宗，山阳高平人也。
世为豪族。
初举孝廉，稍迁青州刺史，劾奏贪浊二千石数人，安旁嘉之，征拜尚书。
建光元年，擢为司隶校尉，明年迁汝南太守。
政崇温和，好才爱士，引进郡人黄宪、陈蕃等。
宪虽不屈，蕃遂就吏。
蕃性气高明，初到，龚不即召见之。
乃留记谢病去。
龚怒，使除其录。
功曹袁阆请见，言曰： 闻之传曰 人臣不见察于君，不敢立于朝 ，蕃既以贤见引，不宜退以非礼。
龚改容谢曰： 是吾过也。
乃复厚遇待之。
由是后进知名之士莫不归心焉。
阆字奉高。数辞公府之命，不修异操，而致名当时。
永建元年，征袭为太仆，转太常。
四年，迁司空，以地震策免。
永和元年，拜太尉。
在位恭慎，自非公事，不通州郡书记。
其所辟命，皆海内长者。
龚深疾宦官专权，志在匡正，乃上书极言其状，请加放斥。
诸黄门恐惧。各使宾客诬奏龚罪，顺帝命亟自实。
前掾李固时为大将军梁商从事中郎，乃奏记于商曰：今旦闻下太尉王公敕令自实，未审其事深浅何如。
王公束厉节，敦乐艺文，不求苟得，不为苟行，但以坚贞之操，违俗失众，横为谗佞所构毁，众人闻知，莫不叹栗。
夫三公尊重，承天象极，未有诣理诉冤之义。
纤微感概，辄引分决，是以旧典不有大罪，不至重问。
王公沈静内明，不可加以非理。
卒有他变，则朝廷获害贤之名，群臣无救护之节矣。
昔绛侯得罪，袁盎解其过，魏尚获戾，冯唐诉其冤，时君善之，列在书传。
今将军内倚至尊，外典国柄，言重信著，指捴无违，宜加表救，济王公之艰难。
语曰： 善人在患，饥不及餐。
然则立德者以幽陋好遗，显登者以贵涂易引。
故晨门有抱关之夫，柱下无朱文之轸也。
暢字叔茂。
少以清实为称，无所交党。
初举孝廉，辞病不就。
大将军梁商特辟举茂才，四迁尚书令，出为齐相。
征拜司隶校尉，转渔阳太守。
所在以严明为称。
坐事免官。
是时，政事多归尚书，桓帝特诏三公，令高选庸能。太尉陈蕃荐暢清方公正，有不可犯之色，由是复为尚书。
寻拜南阳太守。
translation: 
◆The biography of Wang Gong, whose courtesy name is Bo Zong, was from Gaoping County, Shanyang County.
It has been a wealthy family for generations.
He was initially elected as Xiaolian and moved to the governor of Qingzhou. He impeached several people for embezzlement of two thousand dan. Emperor An commended him and conscripted him into Shangshu.
In the first year of Jianguang, he was promoted to Sili Xiaowei, and in the second year he was promoted to Runan prefect.
In order to advocate moderate politics and love talents, he introduced county people Huang Xian, Chen Fan and others.
Although Huang Xian refused to give in, Chen Fan became an official.
Chen Fan was a man of good temperament. When he first arrived at the house, Wang Gong did not summon him immediately.
So I left a note and went back saying I was sick.
Wang Gong was angry and wanted to remove Chen Fan's name.
The meritorious Cao Yuan Lang asked to see Wang Gong and said: I heard that there is a saying in "Zhuan": If a minister is not understood by the king, he will not dare to stand in the court. Since Chen Fan was introduced as a wise person, he should not be dismissed as inappropriate.
Wang Gong changed his color and said: It's my fault!
So he treated him politely.
Therefore, the late and famous people all admired Wang Gong.
Yuan Lang, whose courtesy name was Fenggao, resigned from the government service several times and did not seek any special conduct, but he enjoyed great fame at the time.
In the first year of Yongjian's reign, Wang Gong was recruited as his servant and transferred to Taichang.
In the fourth year, he was promoted to Sikong, but was dismissed due to the earthquake.
In the first year of Yonghe, he was appointed Taiwei.
He is serious and prudent when in office. It is not official business, and he does not communicate with the state or county by letters.
Those he appointed were all respected elders in the country.
Wang Gong was deeply concerned about the monopoly of eunuchs and was determined to save the situation. So he wrote a letter to express the harm caused by the eunuchs and asked the emperor to banish them.
The eunuch was so frightened that the guests submitted a petition to falsely accuse Wang Gong of being guilty. Emperor Shun ordered Wang Gong to confess his guilt as soon as possible.
Li Gu, the former minister, was working as a lieutenant for the general Liang Shang at this time, so he wrote to Liang Shang and said: Today I heard that the emperor ordered the prince to admit his guilt. I don't know the extent of the matter.
The prince cultivates himself, maintains strict moral integrity, loves art and literature, does not ask for things he does not deserve, and does not do things he does not do. In vain, because of his chastity and disobedience to the world, he was dissatisfied by some people, and was brutally slandered and framed. When everyone heard this, everyone sighed and trembled.
The three princes have high responsibilities, support the emperor, and are like three platforms. They have no reason to complain to the judge.
With a little bit of energy, just deal with it casually. Therefore, the old laws and regulations stipulate that unless there is a serious crime, there is no need to interrogate.
The prince is calm and intelligent, so he cannot be treated irrationally.
If something unexpected happens suddenly, then the court will have a reputation of being harmful to the virtuous, and all the ministers will lose their responsibility to save it!
In the past, Jianghou Zhou Bo was offended, and Yuan An appealed for him and was acquitted; Wei Shang was found guilty, and Feng Tang appealed for him. Emperor Wen at that time thought that they had done a good job, and this matter was recorded in the biography.
Now the general relies on the emperor in the court and controls the power of the country outside. His prestige is clear, his words are respected, and no one dares to disobey his command. He should come to the rescue and save the prince from difficulties.
As the saying goes: A good man is in trouble and waits for food when he is hungry.
This is the time. Liang Shang immediately told the emperor and the matter was resolved.
Wang Gong reigned for five years. Due to old age and illness, he asked to go home and died at home.
The son's name is Wang Chang. ◆Wang Changzhuan, Wang Chang's courtesy name is Shumao.
When he was young, he was praised for his honesty and integrity. Rarely socializes with people.
In the beginning, he was filial and honest, and he didn't respond to illness.
General Liang Shang was appointed as Maocai, moved to Shangshuling, and then sent as Prime Minister of Qi.
He was conscripted into Sili Xiaowei and transferred to Yuyang Prefect.
Wherever he went, he was praised for his seriousness and shrewdness.
He was convicted and dismissed from office.
At this time, most of the affairs of the imperial court were assigned to the minister. Emperor Huan specifically issued an order to the three Dukes to elect people with merit and ability as minister. Taiwei Chen Fan recommended Wang Chang, saying that he was honest, fair, and inviolable, so he was appointed minister again.
Soon, he was appointed as the governor of Nanyang.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
前后二千石逼惧帝乡贵戚，多不称职。
暢深疾之，下车奋厉威猛，其豪党有衅秽者，莫不纠发。会赦，事得散。
暢追恨之，更为设法，诸受臧二千万以上不自首实者，尽入财物；若其隐伏，使吏发屋伐树，堙井夷灶，豪右大震。
功曹张敞奏记谏曰：五教在宽，著之经典。
汤去三面，八方归仁。
武王入殷，先去砲格之刑。
高祖鉴秦，唯定三章之法。
孝文皇帝感一缇萦，蠲除肉刑。
卓茂、文翁、召父之徒，皆疾恶严刻，务崇温厚。
仁贤之政，流闻后世。
夫明哲之君，网漏吞舟之鱼，然后三光明于上，人物悦于下。
言之若迂，其效甚近。
发屋伐树。将为严烈，虽欲惩恶，难以闻远。
以明府上智之才，日月之曜，敷仁惠之政，则海内改观，实有折枝之易，而无挟山之难。
郡为旧都侯甸之国，园庙出于章陵，三后生自新野，士女沾教化，黔首仰风流，自中兴以来，功臣将相，继世而隆。
愚以为恳恳用刑，不如行恩；孳孳求奸，未若礼贤。
舜举皋陶，不仁者远。
随会为政，晋盗奔秦。
虞、芮入境，让心自生。
化人在德，不在用刑。
暢深纳敞谏，更崇宽政，慎刑简罚，教化遂行。
郡中豪族多以奢靡相尚，暢常布衣皮褥，车马羸败，以矫其敞。
同郡刘表时年十七，从暢受学。
进谏曰： 夫奢不僭上，俭不逼下，循道行礼，贵处可否之间。
translation: 
The two thousand stones before him were all afraid of the noble relatives of the Imperial Township, and most of them were incompetent.
Wang Chang hated them deeply, and as soon as he took office, he showed his power. Those who were guilty among them were investigated and exposed one by one. When the imperial court granted amnesty, the matter was resolved.
Wang Chang's old grudges were still lingering, and he established another regulation. If each person who received more than 20 million stolen goods refused to surrender and admit it, all his property would be confiscated. If there was any concealment, officials would be sent to demolish houses, cut down trees, fill in wells and flatten stoves. Some evil forces were greatly shocked.
Zhang Chang, a meritorious scholar, wrote a letter to remonstrate: "The Five Religions are broad and have been written in the classics."
Shang Tang said that when the net is removed from three sides, all directions will submit to his benevolence.
When King Wu entered the Yin Dynasty, he first got rid of Zhou's punishment of cannon burning.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty saw the harsh governance of the Qin Dynasty and only made three chapters of the agreement.
Emperor Xiaowen was moved by Tiying's letter to redeem his father and removed the corporal punishment.
Zhuo Mao, Wen Weng, and Zhao Fu's disciples all hate evil as much as their enemies, but their masters are gentle and kind.
The political voice of benevolence and virtuousness will be passed down to future generations.
Those wise and sage monarchs have a sparse legal network and do not seek strictness. Then the three lights of the sun, moon and stars shine above, and the figures below are delighted.
These words may seem pedantic, but their effect is immediate.
Demolishing houses and cutting down trees is a preparation for harsh and violent measures. Although it is intended to punish bad people and bad deeds, I am afraid that it will have a bad impact on people in distant places.
You have the wisdom and talent, you are as bright as the sun and the moon, and you implement benevolent politics to change the old views in the country. It is as easy as breaking a branch, but it is not as difficult as carrying Mount Tai to cross the North Sea.
Queen Guanglie, Queen Yin and Queen Deng are all new barbarians. Men and women bathed in enlightenment, and the people admired the lingering charm of the style. Since the ZTE, heroes, generals and ministers have prospered from generation to generation.
I think it is better to be kind than to use punishment eagerly, and to be polite and virtuous in seeking adultery diligently.
Shun recommended Gao Tao, and bad people would not dare to be around.
Jin ordered the central army to be appointed as Taifu, and the thieves from Jin State fled to Qin State.
Yu and Rui couldn't solve the problem in prison, so they went to see King Wen. When they arrived in Zhou Dynasty, they saw that the people cultivating the fields gave way to the fields, and the young people gave way to the older ones.
Yu and Rui felt very ashamed and said that what we were fighting for was a shame to the Zhou people.
So they didn't go to see King Wen and gave in to each other. It can be seen that the key to reforming people is morality and not punishment. Wang Chang fully accepted Zhang Chang's advice and implemented lenient governance instead, using torture carefully and administering punishment simply. Enlightenment is great.
Most of the large bureaucratic families in Nanyang County boasted of extravagance and waste. Wang Chang usually wore cloth and leather mattresses, and lost horses and chariots to correct this bad habit.
Liu Biao from the same county was seventeen years old and studied with Wang Chang.
Wang Chang advised: "Don't be too extravagant when it comes to extravagance, do what you do when you're thrifty, don't be forced to do it, and behave according to the Tao. The most important thing is to be within the realm of what's possible and what's appropriate."


Chunk 5: 
original: 
蘧伯玉耻独为君子。
府君不希孔圣之明训，而慕夷，齐之末操，无乃皎然自贵于世乎？
暢曰： 昔公仪休在鲁，拔园葵，去织妇；孙叔敖相楚，其子被裘刈薪。
夫以约失之鲜矣。
闻伯夷之风者，贪夫廉，懦夫有立志。
虽以不德，敢慕遣烈。
后征为长乐卫尉。
建宁元年，迁司空，数月，以水灾策免。
明年，卒于家。
子谦，为大将军何进长史。
谦子粲，以文才知名。
种暠字景伯，河南洛阳人，仲山甫之后也。
父为定陶令，有财三千万。
父卒，暠悉以赈恤宗族及邑里之贫者。
其有进趣名利，皆不与交通。
始为县门下史。
时河南尹田歆外甥王谌，名知人。
歆谓之曰： 今当举六孝廉，多得贵戚书命，不宜相违，欲自用一名士以报国家，尔助我求之。
明日，谌送客于大阳郭，遥见暠，异之。还白歆曰： 为尹得孝廉矣，近洛阳门下史也。
歆笑曰： 当得山泽隐滞，乃洛阳吏邪？
谌曰： 山泽不必有异士，异士不必在山泽。
歆即召暠于庭，辩诘职事。
暠辞对有序，歆甚知之，召署主簿，遂举孝谦，辟太尉府，举高第。
顺帝末，为侍御使。
时，所遣八使光禄大夫杜乔、周举等，多所纠奏，而大将军梁冀及诸宦官互为请救，事皆被寝遏。
暠自以职主刺举，志案奸违，乃复劾诸为八使所举蜀郡太守刘宣等罪恶章露，宜伏欧刀。
又奏请敕四府条举近臣父兄及知亲为刺史、二千石尤残秽不胜任者，免遭案罪。
帝乃从之。
translation: 
It is shameful for Zang Boyu to think that he is a gentleman alone.
You do not pay attention to the clear teachings of the sage Confucius, but you envy Shuyi Boqi's trivial ethics. Don’t you want to value yourself in the world with your purity?
Wang Chang said: In the past, when Gong Yixiu was the prime minister of Lu, he uprooted the sunflowers in the garden and divorced his weaver wife; Sun Shu Ao was prime minister of Chu, and his son was killed by Qiu.
Few people fail by saving.
After listening to Boyi's noble character, corrupt people will become honest, and cowardly people will be determined to improve themselves.
Although I have no virtue, I admire the achievements of the ancients.
Later he was appointed as Changle Guardsman.
In the first year of Jianning, he was promoted to Sikong. Only a few months later, he was dismissed due to floods.
The next year, he died at home.
His son Wang Qian was the general and he Jin had a long history.
Wang Can, Wang Qian's son, is famous for his literary talent.
◆Zhong Hao's biography, Zhong Hao's courtesy name was Jing Bo, and he was a native of Luoyang County, Henan County. Descendants of Zhongshanfu.
His father was the magistrate of Dingtao County and had a fortune of thirty million.
After his father died, Zhong Hao used all the money to help the poor in his clan and county.
Those who strive for fame and wealth, Zhong Hao will not associate with them.
Started to work as a county clerk.
At that time, Wang Chen, the nephew of Yin Tianxin in Henan Province, had a good understanding of people.
Tian Xin said to Wang Chen: Now I have to recommend six filial and honest people. I have received many letters from relatives of high-ranking officials and nobles. I cannot go against their orders. I want to use one of my own to serve the country. Please help me find them.
The next day, Wang Chen sent guests to Dayangguo. He saw Zhong Hao from a distance and thought he was not a mortal. He went back and told Tian Xin, "I have found a Xiaolian for you, who is a member of the Luoyang family."
Tian Xin laughed and said: "The person who should be prayed for to live in seclusion in Shanze and not be an official turns out to be a Luoyang official!"
Wang Chen said: There may not necessarily be strangers in the mountains and rivers, and strangers may not necessarily be in the mountains and rivers.
Tian Xin immediately summoned Zhong Hao in the court and asked him about his duties.
Zhong Hao spoke in an orderly manner, and Tian Xin understood what he said very well, so he called him to act as the chief registrar. Therefore, he promoted filial piety and integrity, and was summoned to the Taiwei Mansion, where he was promoted to a high rank for his outstanding performance.
In the last years of Emperor Shun's reign, he served as the censor.
Many of the eight envoys dispatched at that time, such as Du Qiao and Zhou Ju, the Guanglu officials, were impeached. General Liang Ji and other eunuchs asked each other for help and interceded, and the matter was shelved and stopped.
Zhong Hao believed that his duty was to expose and report, and he was determined to investigate and punish traitors, so he impeached Liu Xuan, the governor of Shu County, and others who were reported by the eight envoys. Their crimes were obvious and they should be sentenced to death.
He also petitioned the four prefectures to order the fathers, brothers, relatives and friends of the four governors who were particularly cruel, despicable and incompetent to be dismissed from office and punished.
The emperor accepted his opinion.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
擢暠监太子于承光宫。
中常侍高梵从中单驾出迎太子，时太傅仁乔等疑不欲从，惶惑不知所为。
暠乃手剑当车，曰： 太子国之储副，人命所系。
今常侍来无诏信，何以知非奸邪？
今日有死而已。
梵辞屈，不敢对，驰命奏之。诏报，太子乃得去。
乔退而叹息，愧暠临事不惑。
帝亦嘉其持重，称善者良久。
出为益州刺史。
暠素慷慨，好立功立事。
在职三年，宣恩远夷，开晓殊俗，岷山杂落皆怀服汉德。
其白狼、槃木、唐、邛、诸国，自前刺史朱辅卒后遂绝；暠至，乃复举种向化。
时永昌太守冶铸黄金为文蛇，以献梁冀，暠纠发逮捕，驰传上言，而二府畏懦，不敢案之，冀由是衔怒于暠。
会巴郡人服直聚党数百人，自称 天王 ，暠与太守应承讨捕，不克，吏人多被伤害。
冀因此陷之，传逮暠、承。
太尉李固上疏救曰： 臣伏闻讨捕所伤，本非暠、承之意，实由县吏惧法畏罪，迫逐深苦，致此不详。
比盗贼群起，处处未绝。
暠、承以首举大奸，而相随受罪，臣恐沮伤州县纠发之意，更共饰匿，莫复尽心。
梁太后省奏，乃赦暠、承罪，免官而已。
后凉州羌动，以暠为凉州刺史，甚得百姓欢心。
被征当迁，吏人诣阙请留之，太后叹曰： 未闻刺史得人心若是。
乃许之。
暠复留一年，迁汉阳太守，戎夷男女送至汉阳界，暠与相揖谢，千里不得乘车。
及到郡，化行羌胡，禁止侵掠。
迁使匈奴中郎将。
时，辽东乌桓反叛，复转辽东太守，乌桓望风率服，迎拜于界上。
translation: 
Prince Zhong Hao was selected as Chengguang official.
Gao Fan, the regular attendant, came out of a bicycle to meet the prince. At that time, the prince Du Qiao and others did not want to comply, were hesitant and were so frightened that they did not know what to do.
Zhong Hao held his sword as a chariot and said: The prince is the heir to the country's throne and is related to the life and death of the people.
Now that Chang Shilai has not trusted his orders, how can he know that he is not a traitor?
There is only death today.
Gao Fan had nothing to say and did not dare to answer. He drove up to report to the emperor and ordered the prince to go.
Du Qiao stepped back and sighed, feeling very ashamed of Zhong Hao's prompt decision.
The emperor also praised Zhong Hao for his prudent and correct behavior, and praised him for a long time.
He became the governor of Yizhou from the imperial court.
Zhong Hao is always high-spirited and likes to make meritorious deeds.
After three years in office, he promoted the country's benevolence as far as foreign countries, making it known to places with different customs. The mixed tribes in Minshan all admired the virtues of the Han Dynasty.
Bailang, Mu, Tang, Qiong, and other countries had severed ties with the Han Dynasty since the death of the former governor Zhu Fu; when Zhong Hao took office, they all became naturalized.
At that time, the prefect of Yongchang smelted gold into snakes and presented them to Liang Ji. Zhong Hao exposed and arrested the prefect of Yongchang and reported it to the court as quickly as possible. The second government was afraid of trouble and was cowardly and did not dare to investigate. Liang Ji hated Zhong Hao for this.
Just then, the Bajun people gathered hundreds of party members and claimed to be the King of Heaven. Zhong Hao and the prefect agreed to arrest them, but they failed and many officials were injured.
Liang Ji used this to frame them and announced the arrest of Zhong Hao and Ying Ying.
Taiwei Li Gushang Shujiu said: I heard that the reason why this capture was so harmful was not the fault of Zhong Hao or the promised responsibility. It was actually because the county officials were afraid of breaking the law and being punished, so they forced them to drive away, and the people suffered deeply, leading to this bad result.
There has been an increase in thieves recently, everywhere.
Zhong Hao and Ying Cheng were the first to report the treachery and were immediately punished. I am afraid that this will dampen the enthusiasm of the states and counties to report and impeach. In the future, they will cover up each other and no longer serve the country wholeheartedly.
The Empress Dowager Liang read the memorial, pardoned Zhong Hao and Ying Cheng, and only relieved them of their official duties.
Later, there was turmoil among the Qiang people in Liangzhou, and Zhong Hao was appointed governor of Liangzhou, which was very popular among the people.
Zhong Hao was recruited and promoted, and officials went to the court to retain Zhong Hao as the governor of Liangzhou. The Queen Mother sighed and said: "I have never heard that the governor can win people's hearts like this."
So the request of the Liangzhou officials was approved.
Zhong Hao stayed for another year and was promoted to the prefect of Hanyang. The Rong and Yi men and women were sent to the territory of Hanyang. Zhong Hao bowed to them and thanked them, walking thousands of miles without a car.
Zhong Hao went to Hanyang County and taught Qiang and Hu people, but they themselves prohibited intrusion and plundering property.
He was promoted to the rank of Zhonglang General who was envoy to the Xiongnu.
At this time, Wuhuan of Liaodong rebelled and was transferred to the post of governor of Liaodong. Wuhuan observed the limelight and led his subordinates to surrender, and greeted Zhong Hao on the border.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
坐事免归。
后司隶校尉举暠贤良方正，不应。
征拜议郎，迁南郡太守，入为尚书。会匈奴寇并、凉二州，桓帝擢暠为度辽将军。
暠到营所，先宣恩信，诱降诸胡，其有不服，然后加讨。
羌虏先时有生见获质于郡县者，悉遣还之。
诚心怀抚，信赏分明，由是羌胡、龟兹、莎车、乌孙等皆来顺服。
乃去烽燧，除候望，边方晏然无警。
入为大司农。
延熹四年，迁司徒。
推达名臣桥玄、皇甫规等，为称职相。
在位三年，年六十一薨。
并、凉边人咸为发哀。
匈奴闻暠卒，举国伤惜。
单于每入朝贺，望见坟墓，辄哭泣祭祀。
二子：岱、拂。
岱字公祖。好学养志。
举孝廉、茂才，辟公府，皆不就。
公车特征，病卒。
初，岱与李固子燮同征议郎，燮闻岱卒，痛惜甚，乃上书求加礼于岱。
曰： 臣闻仁义兴则道德昌，道德昌则政化明，政化明而万姓宁。
伏见故处士种岱，淳和达理，耽悦《诗》、《书》，富贵不能回其虑，万物不能扰其心。
禀命不永，奄然殂殒。
若不槃桓难进，等辈皆已公卿矣。
昔先贤既没，有加赠之典，《周礼》盛德，有铭诔之文，而岱生无印绶之荣，卒无官谥之号。
虽未建忠效用，而为圣恩所拔，遐迩具瞻，宜有异赏。
朝廷竟不能从。
拂字颖伯。
初为司隶从事，拜宛令。
时，南阳郡吏好因休沐，游戏市里，为百姓所患。
拂出逢之，必下车公谒，以愧其心，自是莫敢出者。
政有能名，累迁光禄大夫。
初平元年，代荀爽为司空。
明年，以地震策免，复为太常。
translation: 
He was convicted and discharged from office and returned home.
From now on, the commander of the Sili School will recommend Zhong Hao as a virtuous and upright person, but he should not do so.
He was recruited and awarded Yilang, promoted to the prefect of Nanjun, and transferred to Shangshu. When the Huns invaded Bingzhou and Liangzhou, Emperor Huan selected Zhong Hao as the general to conquer Liao.
When Zhong Hao arrived at the camp, he first announced that he would talk about kindness and loyalty, and then he would launch a conquest as a last resort to lure the barbarians to surrender.
Qiang captives who had been imprisoned alive in counties in the past were all sent back.
Sincerely comfort, trust and reward are clear. Therefore, Qianghu, Qiuci, Yarkand, Wusun and other countries came to submit.
Zhong Hao then removed the beacon tower and the waiting facilities, and the border was safe.
He was transferred to the imperial court as the chief minister of agriculture.
In the fourth year of Yanxi's reign, he was promoted to Situ.
The famous ministers Qiao Xuan and Huangfu Gui were recommended as competent prime ministers.
He reigned for three years and died at the age of sixty-one.
The border residents of Bingzhou and Liangzhou all mourned.
When the Xiongnu heard that Zhong Hao had passed away, the whole country was sad.
Every time Chanyu came to pay homage, he would see Zhonghao's grave and weep and offer sacrifices.
The second son: Zhongdai, Zhongfu.
◆In the biography of Zhongdai, Zhongdai was named Gongzu, who was fond of learning and raising his ambitions.
The promotion of filial piety, integrity and talents, and the appointment of Zhao Gongfu were not accepted.
Bus characteristics, illness and death.
At first, Zhong Dai and Li Gu's son Li Xie were recruited as Yilang at the same time. When Li Xie heard that Zhong Dai had died, he was very sad and wrote a letter asking for additional gifts to Zhong Dai.
Said: I heard that benevolence and righteousness flourish, morality flourishes, morality flourishes, politics becomes bright, politics becomes bright, and the people are at peace.
Zhongdai, a virgin who passed away, was simple and easy-going, knowledgeable about affairs, and enjoyed poetry and calligraphy throughout his life. Wealth and honor could not bend his ambition, and all things could not disturb his heart.
His life was short-lived and he died suddenly.
If it weren't for lingering around, they would already be ministers in this generation.
In the past, when a virtuous man died, there would be a ceremony to add gifts. The "Book of Rites of Zhou" says that when a virtuous person dies, there will be an inscription. Zhongdai will not have the honor of being an official in life, and will not have the title of official posthumous title after death.
Although he has not been loyal to the country and has not done anything good, he was selected by the emperor and is known to people far and near that he should receive a special reward.
The court actually did not do this.
◆Zhongfu Chuan, whose name is Yingbo.
He began to work for Sili and was appointed magistrate of Wan County.
At that time, Nanyang County officials liked to play in the market during menstruation, causing harm to the people.
When Zhong Fu went out and met them, he would definitely get out of the car to meet them and make them feel ashamed. From then on, I didn’t dare to come out.
He had a good reputation for being capable in politics and was promoted to Guanglu doctor.
In the first year of Chuping, he replaced Xun Shuang as Sikong.
The next year, he was dismissed from office due to the earthquake and returned to Taichang.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
李、郭之乱。长安城溃，百官多避兵冲，拂挥剑而出曰： 为国大臣，不能止戈除暴，致使凶贼兵刃向宫，去欲何之！
遂战而死。子劭。
劭字申甫。
少知名。
中平末，为谏议大夫。
大将军何进将诛宦官，召并州牧董卓，至渑池，而进意更狐疑，遣劭宣诏止之。
卓不受，遂前至河南。
劭迎劳之，因譬令还军。
卓疑有变，使其军士以兵胁劭。
劭怒，称诏大呼叱之，军士皆披，遂前质责卓。卓辞屈，乃还军夕阳亭。
及进败，献帝即位，拜劭为侍中。
卓既擅权，而恶劭强力，遂左转议郎，出为益、凉二州刺史。
会父拂战死，竟不之职。服终，征为少府、大鸿胪，皆辞不受。
曰： 昔我先父以身徇国，吾为臣子，不能除残复怨，何面目朝觐明主哉！
遂与马腾、韩遂及左中郎刘范、谏议大夫马宇共攻李、郭，以报其仇。
与战于长平观下，军败，劭等皆死。
腾遂还凉州。
陈球字伯真，下邳淮浦人也。
历世著名。
父，广汉太守。
球少涉儒学，善律令。
阳嘉中，举孝廉，稍迁繁阳令。
时魏郡太守讽县求纳货贿，球不与之，太守怒而挝督邮，欲令逐球。
督邮不肯，曰： 魏郡十五城，独繁阳有异政，今受命逐之，将致议于天下矣。
太守乃止。
复辟公府，举高第，拜侍御史。
是时，桂阳黠贼李研等群聚寇抄，陆梁荆部，州郡懦弱，不能禁，太尉杨秉表球为零陵太守。
球到，设方略，期月间，贼虏消散。
而州兵朱盖等反，与桂阳贼胡兰数万人转攻零陵。
零陵下湿，编木为城，不可守备，郡中惶恐。
掾史白遣家避难，球怒曰： 太守分国虎符，受任一邦，岂顾妻孥而沮国威重乎？
translation: 
Li Chu and Guo Si rebelled, and the city of Chang'an was destroyed. Many officials fled to avoid the attack of the soldiers. Zhong Fu came out with his sword and said: As a minister of the country, you can't stop the chaos and eliminate violence. Let the thieves rush into the palace and run wherever they want!
So he fought to the death, and his son Zhong Shao.
◆Zhong Shao Zhuan, Zhong Shao is named Shenfu.
Famous at a young age.
In the last years of Zhongping, he served as an admonishing official.
大将军何进准备诛杀宦官，召并州牧董卓，董卓到渑池，何进狐疑，拿不定主意了。
Zhong Shao was sent to issue an edict to prevent Dong Zhuo from entering the capital. Dong Zhuo refused and advanced to Henan.
Zhong Shao went to greet them and comfort them, and persuaded Dong Zhuo to withdraw.
Dong Zhuo suspected that something was going on, so his sergeants threatened Zang Shao with a gun.
Zhong Shao became angry, claimed that there was an edict, and shouted loudly, causing the soldiers to disperse. Zhong Shao stepped forward to question and blame Dong Zhuo, but Dong Zhuo had nothing to say in response, so he had to retreat to Sunset Pavilion.
When He Jin failed, Emperor Xian ascended the throne and made Shao a doctor.
Dong Zhuo had monopolized power and was a powerful villain. He was demoted to Yilang and made governor of Yizhou and Liangzhou.
When his father died in battle and he was unable to take up his post, the period of mourning expired and he was recruited as a Shaofu or Dahonglu, but neither of them accepted it.
He said: My late father died for the country, and as a minister, I cannot drive away the cruelty and avenge the resentment in my heart. How can I show my face to the Lord!
So together with Ma Teng, Han Sui, Zuo Zhonglang Liu Fan, and admonishment official Ma Yu, they attacked Li Chu and Guo Si to avenge their hatred.
He fought with Guo Si at Changping Temple, but failed. Zhong Shao and others died in the battle.
Ma Teng went back to Liangzhou.
◆Chen Qiu Chuan, also known as Chen Qiu, also known as Bo Zhen, was a native of Huaipu County, Xiapi County.
It has been famous throughout the ages.
His father, Chen Yi, was the governor of Guanghan.
When Chen Qiu was young, he read Confucianism extensively and was familiar with laws and regulations.
In the middle period of Yangjia, Xiaolian was promoted and Fanyang Order was promoted.
At that time, the prefect of Wei County hinted that the county would send bribes, but Chen Qiu refused. The prefect became angry and whipped the postal supervisor, hoping to expel Chen Qiu.
The governor refused and said: "In the fifteen cities of Wei County, Du Fanyang has good political performance. Now if I want to expel Chen Qiu, it will arouse discussion among the people in the world."
The governor didn't dare to do this.
Later, he was promoted to a high official in the imperial palace because of his outstanding performance, and was granted the title of Imperial Censor.
At this time, the most cunning bandit in Guiyang, Li Yan, and others gathered to invade and loot the Jing tribe. The prefectures and counties were cowardly and could not stop them. Taiwei Yang Bing recommended Chen Qiu as the prefect of Lingling.
Chen Qiu went to the county to study the methods and strategies of the conquest. In just one month, some of Li Yan and other bandits were eliminated, and some fled.
However, the state soldiers Zhu Gai and others rebelled and joined forces with the Guiyang thief Hu Lan and tens of thousands of people to attack Lingling.
The ground in Lingling was damp, and the city was made of woven wood. It could not be defended or defended, and the people in the county were panicked.
The governor told Chen Qiu that he wanted to send his family members to seek refuge. Chen Qiu got angry and said: "The prefect has taken the tiger talisman of the country and is responsible for governing the country. How can he only care about his wife and son and undermine the authority of the country?"


Chunk 9: 
original: 
复言者斩！
乃悉内吏人老弱，与共城守，弦大木为弓，羽矛为矢，引机发之，远射千余步，多所杀伤。
贼复激流灌城，球辄于内因地势反决水淹贼。相拒十余日，不能下。
会中郎将度尚将救兵至，球募士卒，与尚共破斩朱盖等。
赐钱五十万，拜子一人为郎。
迁魏郡太守。
征拜将作大匠，作桓帝陵园，所省巨万以上。
迁南阳太守，以纠举豪古，为势家所谤，征诣廷尉抵罪。会赦，归家。
征拜廷尉。
熹平元年，窦太后崩。
太后本迁南宫云台，宦者积怨窦氏，遂以衣车载后尸，置城南市舍数日。
中常侍曹节、王甫欲用贵人礼殡，帝曰： 太后亲立朕躬，统承大业。
《诗》云： 无德不报，无言不酬。
岂宜以贵人终乎？
于是发丧成礼。
及将葬，节等复欲别葬太后，而以冯贵人配礻付。
诏公卿大会朝堂，令中常侍赵忠监议。
太尉李咸时病，乃扶舆而起，捣椒自随，谓妻子曰： 若皇太后不得配食桓帝，吾不生还矣。
既议，坐者数百人，各瞻望中官，良久莫肯先言。赵忠曰： 议当时定。
怪公卿以下各相顾望。
球曰： 皇太后以盛德良家，母临天下，宜配先帝，是无所疑。
忠笑而言曰： 陈廷尉宜便操笔。
球即下议曰： 皇太后自在椒房，有聪明母仪之德。
遭时不造，援立圣明，承继宗庙，功烈至重。
先帝晏驾，因遇大狱，迁居空宫，不幸早世，家虽获罪，事非太后。
今若别葬，诚先天下之望。
且冯贵人冢墓被发，骸骨暴露，与贼并尸，魂灵污染，且无功于国，何宜上配至尊？
translation: 
Besides, behead!
So he gathered all the officials, old and weak, to defend the city together. They used big wood as a string as a bow and feathered spears as arrows. They used a trigger to fire. They could shoot more than a thousand steps away and killed many bandits.
The thieves diverted water to flood the city. Chen Qiu used the terrain in the city to flood the city and drown the thieves. The stalemate lasted for more than ten days, but the thieves could not capture it.
When Zhonglang arrived with reinforcements from Du Shang, Chen Qiu recruited soldiers and together with Du Shang defeated Zhu Gai and beheaded him.
He was given 500,000 yuan and one of Chen Qiu's sons was given the title of Lang.
Promoted to the prefect of Wei County.
Recruiting generals as great craftsmen to build Emperor Huan's mausoleum, saving more than tens of thousands.
He was promoted to the Grand Administrator of Nanyang. He was slandered by a powerful family because of picketing and reporting on powerful bullies. He was summoned to serve as a court official to discuss his crime. He was pardoned and returned home.
He was recruited and appointed as a Tingwei.
In the first year of Xiping, Empress Dowager Dou passed away.
The empress dowager originally moved to Yuntai, Nangong. The eunuchs deeply resented the Dou family and carried the empress dowager's body in a clothes cart and placed it in a cellar in the south of the city for several days.
The ministers Cao Jie and Wang Fu wanted to attend the funeral according to the rites of nobles, but the emperor said: The queen mother has personally appointed me as emperor to inherit the great cause.
"The Book of Songs" says: No virtue will not be repaid, no words will not be repaid.
That is to say, there is no virtue not to repay, and no words not to answer. Can the Queen Mother attend the funeral?
So the funeral was carried out according to the ceremony.
When it was time for the burial, Cao Jie and others wanted to bury the Queen Mother separately and paid for it with Guiren Feng.
The ministers were ordered to convene in the temple, and the minister Zhao Zhong was ordered to supervise the discussion.
Taiwei Li Xian was ill at this time. He stood up from the sedan chair, picked up some longevity peppers, and said to his wife: If the Empress Dowager is not allowed to eat with Emperor Huan, I will not be born again.
When the discussion started, the hundreds of people sitting here all looked at the eunuch. For a long time, no one dared to speak first. Zhao Zhong said: It will be decided at that time.
I blame Gongqing for the following: You look at me, I look at you, but don't say anything.
Chen Qiu said: The empress dowager is virtuous, comes from a good family, and her mother is in the world. There is no doubt that the late emperor should be buried.
Zhao Zhong smiled and said: Chen Tingwei, please take a pen and write down your reasons.
Chen Qiu wrote down his reasons: The Empress Dowager is at ease in her room, she is both smart and maternal.
When he was killed and lost his place, he was elected as the emperor and inherited the ancestral temple, which made the greatest contribution.
When the late emperor passed away, he was imprisoned in Daxing Prison and moved to the empty palace. Unfortunately, he died early. Although the family was convicted, it was not the Queen Mother's business.
Now if the Queen Mother is buried separately, she will lose the hearts of the people in the world.
Moreover, Feng Guiren's tomb was excavated, his bones were exposed, and he was buried with the thieves. His soul was also polluted, and he had no service to the country. How could he be worthy of being worthy of the Supreme Being?


Chunk 10: 
original: 
忠省球议，作色俯仰，蚩球曰： 陈廷尉建此议甚健！
球曰： 陈、窦既冤，皇太后无故幽闭，臣常痛心，天下愤叹。
今日言之，退而受罪，宿昔之愿。
公卿以下，皆从球议。
李咸始不敢先发，见球辞正，然后大言曰： 臣本谓宜尔，诚与臣意合。
会者皆为之愧。
曹节、王甫复争，以为梁后家犯恶逆，虽葬懿陵，武帝黜废卫后，而以李夫人配食。
今窦氏罪深，岂得合葬先帝乎？
李咸乃诣阙上疏曰： 臣伏惟章德窦后虐害恭怀，安思阎后家犯恶逆，而和帝无异葬之议，顺朝无贬降之文。
至于卫后，孝武皇帝身所废弃，不可以为比。
今长乐太后尊号在身，亲尝称制，坤育天下，且授立圣明，光隆皇祚。
太后以陛下为子，陛下岂得不以太后为母？
子无黜母，臣无贬君，宜合葬宣陵，一如旧制。
帝省奏，谓曹节等曰： 窦氏虽为不道，而太后有德于朕，不宜降黜。
节等无复言，于是议者乃定。
咸字元贞，汝南人。
累经洲郡，以廉干知名，在朝清忠，权幸惮之。
六年，迁球司空，以地震免。
拜光禄大夫，复为廷尉、太常。
光和元年，迁太尉，数月，以日食免。复拜光禄大夫。
明年，为永乐少府，乃潜与司徒河间刘郃谋诛宦官。
初，郃兄侍中，与大将军窦武同谋俱死，故郃与球相结。
事未及发，球复以书劝郃曰： 公出自宗室，位登台鼎，天下瞻望，社稷镇卫，岂得雷同容容无违而已？
今曹节等放纵为害，而久在左右，又公兄侍中受害节等，永乐太后所亲知也。
今可表徙卫尉阳球为司隶校尉，以次收节等诛之。
政出圣主，天下太平，可翘足而待也。
translation: 
After Zhao Zhong saw Chen Qiu's reasons, he changed his color and sneered at Chen Qiu, saying: "Chen Tingwei suggested this, you are very knowledgeable!"
Chen Qiu said: Since Chen Fan and Dou Wu were unjustly convicted, and the Empress Dowager was imprisoned for no reason, I am often saddened, and everyone in the world is indignant and sighing for this.
I have said this today, and if you are accused of being blamed after the meeting, this has been my wish for a long time.
Everyone below the minister agreed with Chen Qiu's opinion.
Li Xian didn't dare to speak at first, but listened to Chen Qiu's righteous words, and then said loudly: I said it should be like this, and what Chen Qiu said was exactly what I wanted.
Everyone present was ashamed of him.
Cao Jie and Wang Fu argued again, believing that the Empress Liang's family had committed a crime and should not be buried in Yiling. Emperor Wu deposed the Empress Wei and used Mrs. Li as a food ration.
Now that the Dou family has committed a serious crime, can they bury the late emperor together?
Li Xian then went to the court and said, "I believe that Empress Zhang De Dou abused and tortured Gong Huai, and An Si and Yan Hou's family committed crimes, but he and the emperor had no intention of being buried together, and there was no word about demotion in Shun Temple."
As for the Queen of Wei, it cannot be compared with the one abandoned by Emperor Xiaowu.
Now she holds the title of Empress Dowager Changle, and she once came to the court to exercise authority, exercise the power of the emperor, educate the world, and install the current emperor to the throne.
The Queen Mother regards the Emperor as her son, can the Emperor not recognize the Queen Mother as his mother?
A son cannot depose his mother, and ministers cannot demote the emperor. They should be buried together in Xuanling, fully abiding by the old system.
The emperor read the memorial and said to Cao Jie and others: Although the surnamed Dou is immoral, the Queen Mother has virtues for me and should not be demoted.
Cao Jie said nothing more, so the discussion was settled.
Li Xian, courtesy name Yuan Zhen, was from Runan.
From state to county, it rises step by step. He is famous for his integrity and ability; he is loyal to the court, and generally the powerful and flattering people are afraid of him.
In the sixth year, Chen Qiu was promoted to Sikong, but was dismissed due to an earthquake.
He was awarded Doctor Guanglu and then Tingwei and Taichang.
In the first year of Guanghe, he was promoted to Taiwei. After a few months, he was dismissed due to a solar eclipse and was awarded the title of Guanglu doctor.
In the second year, he was appointed as the Shaofu of Yongle, so he secretly planned with Situ Hejian and Liu to kill the eunuchs.
At first, Liu's elder brother, the minister Liu Zhen, conspired with the general Dou Wu to kill the eunuchs, but they were both killed by the eunuchs, so Liu and Chen Qiu formed a conspiracy.
Before the matter got started, Chen Qiu wrote another letter to persuade Liu: "The Duke is a descendant of the clan, and he is the third Duke. He is respected by people all over the world. Can the vassal guard of the country just go along with it and tolerate it without any objection?"
Now Cao Jie and others are doing wanton harm and have always been by your side, and your brother Shizhong was harmed by Cao Jie and others. This is known to the Empress Dowager Yongle.
Now we can transfer Wei Yangqiu from Wei to Sili Xiaowei, and capture and kill Cao Jie and others in turn.
In this way, the emperor will take charge personally and the world will be at peace soon.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
又，尚书刘纳以正直忤宦官，出为步兵校尉，亦深劝于郃。
郃曰： 凶竖多耳目，恐事未会，先受其祸。
纳曰： 公为国栋梁，倾危不持，焉用彼相邪？
郃许诺，亦结谋阳球。
球小妻，程璜之女，璜用事宫中，所谓程大人也。
节等颇得闻知，乃重赂于璜，且胁之。
璜惧迫，以球谋告节，节因共白帝曰： 郃等常与籓国交通，有恶意。
数称永乐声势，受取狼籍。
步兵校尉刘纳及永乐少府陈球、卫尉阳球交通书疏，谋议不轨。
帝大怒，策免郃，郃与球及刘纳、阳球皆下狱死。
球时年六十二。
子瑀，吴郡太守；瑀弟琮，汝阴太守；弟子珪，沛相；珪子登，广陵太守：并知名。
translation: 
In addition, Shangshu Liu Na offended the eunuchs because of his integrity and was transferred to the rank of infantry captain. He also urged Liu.
Liu said: The vicious eunuchs have many eyes and ears, and they are afraid that things will be harmed before things are ready.
Liu Na said: You are the pillar of the country. The country is tilting and is about to collapse. If you don't support it, what's the point of using you?
Liu agreed and conspired with Yang Qiu.
Chen Qiu's younger wife is Cheng Huang's daughter. Cheng Huang works in the palace, and the palace calls her Master Cheng.
Cao Jie and others knew a little bit about Liu and others' plans, so they bribed Cheng Huang with a lot of money and threatened him.
Cheng Huang was forced and frightened, so he told Cao Jie about Chen Qiu's plan. Cao Jie told the emperor the whole situation and said: Liu et al. often interacted with the vassal country and had bad ideas.
She praised the power of Queen Mother Yongle many times and accepted a lot of bribes.
Infantry Colonel Liu Na and Yongle Shaofu Chen Qiu and Wei Wei Yangqiu exchanged letters and plotted against each other.
The emperor was furious and removed Liu Situ from his post. Liu, Chen Qiu, Liu Na and Yang Qiu all died in prison.
Chen Qiu was sixty-two years old.
His son Chen Wangyu was the prefect of Wu County; Chen Wangyu's younger brother Chen Cong was the prefect of Ruyin; his younger brother's son Chen Wanggui was the prime minister of Pei; Chen Wanggui's son Chen Deng was the prefect of Guangling.


