Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 3, 4, 5, 8, 10]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
张晧子纲王龚子畅种暠子岱子拂挮子劭陈球
张晧字叔明，犍为武阳人也。六世祖良，高帝时为太子少傅，封留侯。告少游学京师，永元中，归仕州郡，辟大将军邓骘府，五迁尚书仆射，职事八年，出为彭城相。
永宁元年，征拜廷尉。
晧虽非法家，而留心刑断，数与尚书辩正疑狱，多以详当见从。
时安帝废皇太子为济阴王，晧与太常桓焉、太仆来历廷争之，不能得。
事已具《来历传》。
退而上疏曰： 昔贼臣江充，造构谗逆，至令戾园兴兵，终及祸难。
后壶关三老一言，上乃觉悟，虽追前失，悔之何逮！
今皇太子春秋方始十岁，未见保傅九德之义，宜简贤辅，就成圣质。
书奏不省。
及顺帝即位，拜晧司空，在事多所荐达，天下称其推士。
时清河赵腾上言灾变，讥刺朝政，章下有司，收腾系考，所引党辈八十余人，皆以诽谤当伏重法。
晧上疏谏曰： 臣闻尧舜立敢谏之鼓，三王树诽谤之木，《春秋》采善书恶，圣主不罪刍荛。
腾等虽干上犯法，所言本欲尽忠正谏。
如当诛戮，天下杜口，塞谏争之源，非所以昭德示后也。
帝乃悟，减腾死罪一等，余皆司寇。
四年，以阴阳不和策免。
阳嘉元年，复为廷尉。
其年卒官，时年八十三。
遣使者吊祭，赐葬地于河南县。
子纲。
纲字文纪。少明经学。
虽为公子，而厉布衣之节。
举孝廉不就，司徒辟高第为侍御史。
时顺帝委纵宦官，有识危心。
translation: 
◆Zhang Hao's biography, Zhang Hao's courtesy name was Shuming, and he was a native of Wuyang, Qianwei County. Zhang Liang, the sixth generation ancestor, was the prince's young master during the reign of Emperor Gao and was granted the title of Liuhou.
When Zhang Hao was young, he traveled to the capital to study. In Yongyuanzhong, he returned to the prefecture and served as an official. He established the mansion of General Deng Zhi. He was promoted to Shangshu Pushe five times and served for eight years before becoming the prime minister of Pengcheng.
In the first year of Yongning, he was promoted to Tingwei.
Although Zhang Hao was not a Legalist, he paid attention to punishment and imprisonment, and often argued with ministers to correct doubts and doubts. Most of his opinions were adopted after careful consideration.
At this time, Emperor An deposed the crown prince as King of Jiyin, and Zhang Hao argued with Taichang Huanyan and Taipu about the origins of the throne in the court, but to no avail.
The matter has been recorded in the Biography of Origin.
Zhang Hao withdrew from the imperial court and wrote: "In the past, Jiang Chong, a traitor, made slanderous rumors and rebels, causing the military garden to raise troops, and finally disaster occurred."
Later, Linghu Mao, the third elder of Huguan, wrote a letter saying that the prince had been wronged, and Emperor Wu realized that although he could catch up on his previous mistakes, regretting it would be of no use!
Now that the crown prince is only ten years old, he still does not know the meaning of the nine virtues of the nanny master. He should choose virtuous people to assist him so that he can become the emperor.
The book was submitted but was not accepted.
Emperor Shun ascended the throne and appointed Zhang Hao as Sikong. He promoted many talents in office and the world called him a pusher.
At this time, Zhao Teng of Qinghe wrote a letter about the disaster, ridiculed the government, reported to those in charge, and arrested Zhao Teng and others for questioning. More than 80 party members were involved, all of whom should be severely punished for slandering the imperial court.
Zhang Hao's admonishment was: I heard that Yao and Shun set up drums for remonstrance, and three kings set up slander trees. The Spring and Autumn Annals collect good things and write about bad things, and the wise emperor does not inflict crimes on the common people in the grass.
Although Zhao Teng and others violated the law and violated the law, he spoke out of loyalty and integrity.
If he should be killed, the mouths of the people in the world would be blocked, and the source of remonstrances and disputes would be blocked. This is not a way to promote morality and set an example for future generations.
The emperor came to his senses and reduced Zhao Teng's death sentence to one degree, and the others were sentenced to two years of imprisonment.
Four years later, he was removed from office due to disagreement between yin and yang.
In the first year of Yangjia, he was promoted to Tingwei again.
He died in office this year at the age of eighty-three.
The imperial court sent envoys to offer condolences and gave him a burial place in Henan County.
Son Zhang Gang.
◆Zhang Gang's biography, Zhang Gang's courtesy name was Wen Ji, and he was proficient in Confucian classics when he was young.
Although he is a young master, he strictly enforces the integrity of common people.
If he was not praised for his filial piety and honesty, Situ, because of his excellent performance, appointed Gaodi as the imperial censor.
At this time, Emperor Shun indulged the eunuchs, which chilled the hearts of knowledgeable people.
summary:
Zhang Hao, courtesy name Shuming, was from Wuyang, Qianwei County. His sixth-generation ancestor Zhang Liang served as prince's young master under Emperor Gao and was granted the title of Liuhou. Zhang Hao studied in the capital as a youth, later served as an official, and was promoted five times to Shangshu Pushe before becoming prime minister of Pengcheng. In Yongning's first year, he became Tingwei. Though not a Legalist, he emphasized proper punishment and often debated with ministers to correct doubts. When Emperor An deposed the crown prince, Zhang Hao argued unsuccessfully with officials. He later submitted a memorial citing historical examples of wrongful accusations and urging the selection of virtuous advisors for the young prince, but his advice was rejected. Under Emperor Shun, Zhang Hao became Sikong and promoted many talents. When Zhao Teng and others were arrested for criticizing the government, Zhang Hao admonished the emperor, citing ancient practices of accepting remonstrance, and persuaded him to reduce their sentences. He was removed from office due to natural disasters, reinstated as Tingwei in Yangjia's first year, and died in office at age eighty-three.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
纲常感激，慨然叹曰： 秽恶满朝，不能奋身出命埽国家之难，虽生，吾不愿也。
退而上书曰：《诗》曰： 不愆不忘，率由旧章。
寻大汉初隆，及中兴之世，文、明二帝，德化尤盛。
观其礼为，易循易见，但恭俭守节，约身尚德而已。
中官常侍不过两人，近幸赏赐裁满数金，惜费重人，故家给人足。
夷狄闻中国优富，任信道德，所以奸谋自消而和气感应。
而皆者以来，不遵旧典，无功小人皆有官爵，富之骄之而复害之，非爱人重器，承天顺道者也。
伏愿陛下少留圣思，割损左右，以奉天心。
书奏不省。
汉安元年，选遣八使徇行风俗，皆耆儒知名，多历显位，唯纲年少，官次最微。
余人受命之部，而纲独埋其车轮于洛阳都亭，曰： 豺狼当路，安问狐狸！
遂奏曰： 大将军冀，河南尹不疑，蒙外戚之援，荷国厚恩，以刍荛之资，居阿衡之任，不能敷扬五教，翼赞日月，而专为封豕长蛇，肆其食叨，甘心好货，纵恣无底，多树谄谀，以害忠良。
诚天威所不赦，大辟所宜加也。
谨条其无君之心十五事，斯皆臣子所切齿者也。
书御，京师震竦。
时，冀妹为皇后，内宠方盛，诸梁姻族满朝，帝虽知纲言直，终不忍用。
时，广陵贼张婴等众数万人，杀刺史、二千石，寇乱扬、徐间，积十余年，朝廷不能讨。
冀乃讽尚书，以纲为广陵太守，因欲以事中之。
前遣郡守，率多求兵马，纲独请单车之职。
既到，乃将吏卒十余人，径造婴垒，以慰安之，求得与长老相见，申示国恩。
婴初大惊，既见纲诚信，乃出拜谒。
纲延置上坐，问所疾苦。
translation: 
Zhang Gang was excited and sighed with emotion: "The dynasty is full of filth and filth. I cannot step forward to eliminate the country's danger. Even though I am alive, I don't want to!"
So he wrote: "The Book of Songs" says: Don't make mistakes and don't forget, follow the old chapter.
It is said that Cheng Wang Lingde is just following the old regulations. The Han Dynasty was initially prosperous, and during the Zhongxing era, Emperor Wen and Emperor Ming had more prosperous moral education.
Looking at the governance measures at that time, it is obvious that it is not difficult to follow them, but it is just about promoting frugality, adhering to economy, and cultivating one's morality.
A middle official can only serve two people, and the people who serve on the left and right are rewarded with only a few gold coins. He cherishes expenses and respects people, so every family is rich.
Everyone has food and clothing. Yi Di knows that China is prosperous and strong, and upholds trust and morality, so treacherous plots are naturally eliminated and harmony is induced.
But recently, those who do not abide by the old rules and have no merit have been given official titles, making them rich, making them arrogant, and then punishing them. This is not loving people and valuing talents, flattering destiny, and obeying the great road.
Please give your Majesty some holy thought and organize your affairs in order to serve God's will.
The book was sent, but the emperor did not accept it.
In the first year of Han'an, eight envoys were selected to inspect social customs. They were all well-known old Confucian scholars with high status. Only Zhang Gang is young and has the lowest rank.
The rest of the people accepted the order and set off, but Zhang Gang buried his wheel alone in Duting, Luoyang, saying: "The jackals are in charge, why ask the fox!"
The report said: General Liang Ji, Henan Yin Bujie, cited by his relatives, enjoys the country's kindness, is a talent of the common people, and has the responsibility of tutoring the emperor and conducting state affairs. He cannot promote the five religions and support the emperor. He specializes in being a big pig and a snake. He is the chief culprit. He is greedy and cruel, devoted to good things, and indulges in unbridled and unbridled people. He cultivates a group of sycophants and frames Zhongliang.
This is something that cannot be pardoned by the emperor's authority and should be punished with death.
I would like to mention fifteen things about their unruly attitude, all of which are hated by the ministers.
The book came in and the capital was shocked.
At this time, Liang Ji's sister was the queen and was favored by the emperor. Zhu Liang's relatives were all over the court. Although the emperor knew that Zhang Gang was telling the truth, he finally couldn't bear to accept it.
At this time, Guangling thief Zhang Ying and tens of thousands of people killed the governor and two thousand stones, invaded and disturbed Yang and Xu Jian, and for more than ten years, the imperial court was unable to attack them.
Liang Ji then hinted to the minister to appoint Zhang Gang as the prefect of Guangling, hoping to attack and frame him.
In the past, the county guards sent there usually asked the court for more troops and horses, so Zhang Gang sent a bicycle alone to take office.
After arriving, he took only a dozen officials and soldiers to Zhang Ying's position, comforted them, and asked to meet their leader to explain the country's kindness to them.
Zhang Ying was surprised at first and saw Zhang Gang's sincerity, so he came out to pay Zhang Gang a visit.
Zhang Gang was invited to take a seat. Zhang Gang asked Zhang Ying what difficulties he had.
summary:
Zhang Hao's son Zhang Gang, courtesy name Wen Ji, was proficient in Confucian classics and strictly maintained integrity. He became imperial censor under Emperor Shun. Distressed by the emperor's indulgence of eunuchs, Zhang Gang submitted a memorial contrasting the frugal governance of earlier Han emperors with current corruption, urging reform. The emperor did not accept it. In Han'an's first year, when eight envoys were selected to inspect customs, Zhang Gang alone buried his carriage wheel in Luoyang, declaring he would investigate the powerful rather than minor officials. He submitted a report condemning General Liang Ji and his relatives for corruption and tyranny. Though the emperor knew Zhang Gang was truthful, he did not act due to Liang Ji's influence. Liang Ji then appointed Zhang Gang as prefect of Guangling, hoping the bandit troubles there would destroy him. Zhang Gang went alone with few officials to meet the bandit leader Zhang Ying, persuading him to surrender through sincere discussion of loyalty and consequences. Over ten thousand people surrendered. Zhang Gang died at forty-six, with the people mourning deeply and Zhang Ying leading over five hundred in mourning attire to build his tomb.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
王龚字伯宗，山阳高平人也。
世为豪族。
初举孝廉，稍迁青州刺史，劾奏贪浊二千石数人，安旁嘉之，征拜尚书。
建光元年，擢为司隶校尉，明年迁汝南太守。
政崇温和，好才爱士，引进郡人黄宪、陈蕃等。
宪虽不屈，蕃遂就吏。
蕃性气高明，初到，龚不即召见之。
乃留记谢病去。
龚怒，使除其录。
功曹袁阆请见，言曰： 闻之传曰 人臣不见察于君，不敢立于朝 ，蕃既以贤见引，不宜退以非礼。
龚改容谢曰： 是吾过也。
乃复厚遇待之。
由是后进知名之士莫不归心焉。
阆字奉高。数辞公府之命，不修异操，而致名当时。
永建元年，征袭为太仆，转太常。
四年，迁司空，以地震策免。
永和元年，拜太尉。
在位恭慎，自非公事，不通州郡书记。
其所辟命，皆海内长者。
龚深疾宦官专权，志在匡正，乃上书极言其状，请加放斥。
诸黄门恐惧。各使宾客诬奏龚罪，顺帝命亟自实。
前掾李固时为大将军梁商从事中郎，乃奏记于商曰：今旦闻下太尉王公敕令自实，未审其事深浅何如。
王公束厉节，敦乐艺文，不求苟得，不为苟行，但以坚贞之操，违俗失众，横为谗佞所构毁，众人闻知，莫不叹栗。
夫三公尊重，承天象极，未有诣理诉冤之义。
纤微感概，辄引分决，是以旧典不有大罪，不至重问。
王公沈静内明，不可加以非理。
卒有他变，则朝廷获害贤之名，群臣无救护之节矣。
昔绛侯得罪，袁盎解其过，魏尚获戾，冯唐诉其冤，时君善之，列在书传。
今将军内倚至尊，外典国柄，言重信著，指捴无违，宜加表救，济王公之艰难。
语曰： 善人在患，饥不及餐。
然则立德者以幽陋好遗，显登者以贵涂易引。
故晨门有抱关之夫，柱下无朱文之轸也。
暢字叔茂。
少以清实为称，无所交党。
初举孝廉，辞病不就。
大将军梁商特辟举茂才，四迁尚书令，出为齐相。
征拜司隶校尉，转渔阳太守。
所在以严明为称。
坐事免官。
是时，政事多归尚书，桓帝特诏三公，令高选庸能。太尉陈蕃荐暢清方公正，有不可犯之色，由是复为尚书。
寻拜南阳太守。
translation: 
◆The biography of Wang Gong, whose courtesy name is Bo Zong, was from Gaoping County, Shanyang County.
It has been a wealthy family for generations.
He was initially elected as Xiaolian and moved to the governor of Qingzhou. He impeached several people for embezzlement of two thousand dan. Emperor An commended him and conscripted him into Shangshu.
In the first year of Jianguang, he was promoted to Sili Xiaowei, and in the second year he was promoted to Runan prefect.
In order to advocate moderate politics and love talents, he introduced county people Huang Xian, Chen Fan and others.
Although Huang Xian refused to give in, Chen Fan became an official.
Chen Fan was a man of good temperament. When he first arrived at the house, Wang Gong did not summon him immediately.
So I left a note and went back saying I was sick.
Wang Gong was angry and wanted to remove Chen Fan's name.
The meritorious Cao Yuan Lang asked to see Wang Gong and said: I heard that there is a saying in "Zhuan": If a minister is not understood by the king, he will not dare to stand in the court. Since Chen Fan was introduced as a wise person, he should not be dismissed as inappropriate.
Wang Gong changed his color and said: It's my fault!
So he treated him politely.
Therefore, the late and famous people all admired Wang Gong.
Yuan Lang, whose courtesy name was Fenggao, resigned from the government service several times and did not seek any special conduct, but he enjoyed great fame at the time.
In the first year of Yongjian's reign, Wang Gong was recruited as his servant and transferred to Taichang.
In the fourth year, he was promoted to Sikong, but was dismissed due to the earthquake.
In the first year of Yonghe, he was appointed Taiwei.
He is serious and prudent when in office. It is not official business, and he does not communicate with the state or county by letters.
Those he appointed were all respected elders in the country.
Wang Gong was deeply concerned about the monopoly of eunuchs and was determined to save the situation. So he wrote a letter to express the harm caused by the eunuchs and asked the emperor to banish them.
The eunuch was so frightened that the guests submitted a petition to falsely accuse Wang Gong of being guilty. Emperor Shun ordered Wang Gong to confess his guilt as soon as possible.
Li Gu, the former minister, was working as a lieutenant for the general Liang Shang at this time, so he wrote to Liang Shang and said: Today I heard that the emperor ordered the prince to admit his guilt. I don't know the extent of the matter.
The prince cultivates himself, maintains strict moral integrity, loves art and literature, does not ask for things he does not deserve, and does not do things he does not do. In vain, because of his chastity and disobedience to the world, he was dissatisfied by some people, and was brutally slandered and framed. When everyone heard this, everyone sighed and trembled.
The three princes have high responsibilities, support the emperor, and are like three platforms. They have no reason to complain to the judge.
With a little bit of energy, just deal with it casually. Therefore, the old laws and regulations stipulate that unless there is a serious crime, there is no need to interrogate.
The prince is calm and intelligent, so he cannot be treated irrationally.
If something unexpected happens suddenly, then the court will have a reputation of being harmful to the virtuous, and all the ministers will lose their responsibility to save it!
In the past, Jianghou Zhou Bo was offended, and Yuan An appealed for him and was acquitted; Wei Shang was found guilty, and Feng Tang appealed for him. Emperor Wen at that time thought that they had done a good job, and this matter was recorded in the biography.
Now the general relies on the emperor in the court and controls the power of the country outside. His prestige is clear, his words are respected, and no one dares to disobey his command. He should come to the rescue and save the prince from difficulties.
As the saying goes: A good man is in trouble and waits for food when he is hungry.
This is the time. Liang Shang immediately told the emperor and the matter was resolved.
Wang Gong reigned for five years. Due to old age and illness, he asked to go home and died at home.
The son's name is Wang Chang. ◆Wang Changzhuan, Wang Chang's courtesy name is Shumao.
When he was young, he was praised for his honesty and integrity. Rarely socializes with people.
In the beginning, he was filial and honest, and he didn't respond to illness.
General Liang Shang was appointed as Maocai, moved to Shangshuling, and then sent as Prime Minister of Qi.
He was conscripted into Sili Xiaowei and transferred to Yuyang Prefect.
Wherever he went, he was praised for his seriousness and shrewdness.
He was convicted and dismissed from office.
At this time, most of the affairs of the imperial court were assigned to the minister. Emperor Huan specifically issued an order to the three Dukes to elect people with merit and ability as minister. Taiwei Chen Fan recommended Wang Chang, saying that he was honest, fair, and inviolable, so he was appointed minister again.
Soon, he was appointed as the governor of Nanyang.
summary:
Wang Gong, courtesy name Bo Zong, was from Gaoping County, Shanyang. He served as Qingzhou governor, impeaching corrupt officials, and was promoted to Shangshu. He became Runan prefect, where he promoted moderate governance and introduced talented individuals like Huang Xian and Chen Fan. When Chen Fan left a note claiming illness after not being immediately received, Wang Gong initially wanted to dismiss him but was persuaded otherwise by meritorious official Yuan Lang. Wang Gong later became Taiwei, maintaining strict propriety and appointing respected elders. Concerned about eunuch power, he submitted a memorial requesting their banishment. Eunuchs retaliated by falsely accusing him, and Emperor Shun ordered him to confess. Li Gu wrote to General Liang Shang urging intervention, citing historical precedents, and the matter was resolved. Wang Gong served five years before retiring due to age and illness, dying at home.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
前后二千石逼惧帝乡贵戚，多不称职。
暢深疾之，下车奋厉威猛，其豪党有衅秽者，莫不纠发。会赦，事得散。
暢追恨之，更为设法，诸受臧二千万以上不自首实者，尽入财物；若其隐伏，使吏发屋伐树，堙井夷灶，豪右大震。
功曹张敞奏记谏曰：五教在宽，著之经典。
汤去三面，八方归仁。
武王入殷，先去砲格之刑。
高祖鉴秦，唯定三章之法。
孝文皇帝感一缇萦，蠲除肉刑。
卓茂、文翁、召父之徒，皆疾恶严刻，务崇温厚。
仁贤之政，流闻后世。
夫明哲之君，网漏吞舟之鱼，然后三光明于上，人物悦于下。
言之若迂，其效甚近。
发屋伐树。将为严烈，虽欲惩恶，难以闻远。
以明府上智之才，日月之曜，敷仁惠之政，则海内改观，实有折枝之易，而无挟山之难。
郡为旧都侯甸之国，园庙出于章陵，三后生自新野，士女沾教化，黔首仰风流，自中兴以来，功臣将相，继世而隆。
愚以为恳恳用刑，不如行恩；孳孳求奸，未若礼贤。
舜举皋陶，不仁者远。
随会为政，晋盗奔秦。
虞、芮入境，让心自生。
化人在德，不在用刑。
暢深纳敞谏，更崇宽政，慎刑简罚，教化遂行。
郡中豪族多以奢靡相尚，暢常布衣皮褥，车马羸败，以矫其敞。
同郡刘表时年十七，从暢受学。
进谏曰： 夫奢不僭上，俭不逼下，循道行礼，贵处可否之间。
translation: 
The two thousand stones before him were all afraid of the noble relatives of the Imperial Township, and most of them were incompetent.
Wang Chang hated them deeply, and as soon as he took office, he showed his power. Those who were guilty among them were investigated and exposed one by one. When the imperial court granted amnesty, the matter was resolved.
Wang Chang's old grudges were still lingering, and he established another regulation. If each person who received more than 20 million stolen goods refused to surrender and admit it, all his property would be confiscated. If there was any concealment, officials would be sent to demolish houses, cut down trees, fill in wells and flatten stoves. Some evil forces were greatly shocked.
Zhang Chang, a meritorious scholar, wrote a letter to remonstrate: "The Five Religions are broad and have been written in the classics."
Shang Tang said that when the net is removed from three sides, all directions will submit to his benevolence.
When King Wu entered the Yin Dynasty, he first got rid of Zhou's punishment of cannon burning.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty saw the harsh governance of the Qin Dynasty and only made three chapters of the agreement.
Emperor Xiaowen was moved by Tiying's letter to redeem his father and removed the corporal punishment.
Zhuo Mao, Wen Weng, and Zhao Fu's disciples all hate evil as much as their enemies, but their masters are gentle and kind.
The political voice of benevolence and virtuousness will be passed down to future generations.
Those wise and sage monarchs have a sparse legal network and do not seek strictness. Then the three lights of the sun, moon and stars shine above, and the figures below are delighted.
These words may seem pedantic, but their effect is immediate.
Demolishing houses and cutting down trees is a preparation for harsh and violent measures. Although it is intended to punish bad people and bad deeds, I am afraid that it will have a bad impact on people in distant places.
You have the wisdom and talent, you are as bright as the sun and the moon, and you implement benevolent politics to change the old views in the country. It is as easy as breaking a branch, but it is not as difficult as carrying Mount Tai to cross the North Sea.
Queen Guanglie, Queen Yin and Queen Deng are all new barbarians. Men and women bathed in enlightenment, and the people admired the lingering charm of the style. Since the ZTE, heroes, generals and ministers have prospered from generation to generation.
I think it is better to be kind than to use punishment eagerly, and to be polite and virtuous in seeking adultery diligently.
Shun recommended Gao Tao, and bad people would not dare to be around.
Jin ordered the central army to be appointed as Taifu, and the thieves from Jin State fled to Qin State.
Yu and Rui couldn't solve the problem in prison, so they went to see King Wen. When they arrived in Zhou Dynasty, they saw that the people cultivating the fields gave way to the fields, and the young people gave way to the older ones.
Yu and Rui felt very ashamed and said that what we were fighting for was a shame to the Zhou people.
So they didn't go to see King Wen and gave in to each other. It can be seen that the key to reforming people is morality and not punishment. Wang Chang fully accepted Zhang Chang's advice and implemented lenient governance instead, using torture carefully and administering punishment simply. Enlightenment is great.
Most of the large bureaucratic families in Nanyang County boasted of extravagance and waste. Wang Chang usually wore cloth and leather mattresses, and lost horses and chariots to correct this bad habit.
Liu Biao from the same county was seventeen years old and studied with Wang Chang.
Wang Chang advised: "Don't be too extravagant when it comes to extravagance, do what you do when you're thrifty, don't be forced to do it, and behave according to the Tao. The most important thing is to be within the realm of what's possible and what's appropriate."
summary:
Wang Gong's son Wang Chang, courtesy name Shumao, was known for honesty. He served in various positions including Yuyang prefect, where he was praised for seriousness and shrewdness. After being dismissed, he was recommended by Taiwei Chen Fan and became minister, then Nanyang governor. He harshly punished corrupt officials, demolishing houses and cutting down trees of those who concealed stolen goods. Meritorious official Zhang Chang advised leniency, citing historical examples of benevolent governance. Wang Chang accepted this advice and implemented lenient governance. He personally practiced frugality to correct extravagant habits. When advising young Liu Biao, Wang Chang emphasized moderation and cited historical examples of integrity. He later became Sikong but was dismissed due to floods, dying at home the following year.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
蘧伯玉耻独为君子。
府君不希孔圣之明训，而慕夷，齐之末操，无乃皎然自贵于世乎？
暢曰： 昔公仪休在鲁，拔园葵，去织妇；孙叔敖相楚，其子被裘刈薪。
夫以约失之鲜矣。
闻伯夷之风者，贪夫廉，懦夫有立志。
虽以不德，敢慕遣烈。
后征为长乐卫尉。
建宁元年，迁司空，数月，以水灾策免。
明年，卒于家。
子谦，为大将军何进长史。
谦子粲，以文才知名。
种暠字景伯，河南洛阳人，仲山甫之后也。
父为定陶令，有财三千万。
父卒，暠悉以赈恤宗族及邑里之贫者。
其有进趣名利，皆不与交通。
始为县门下史。
时河南尹田歆外甥王谌，名知人。
歆谓之曰： 今当举六孝廉，多得贵戚书命，不宜相违，欲自用一名士以报国家，尔助我求之。
明日，谌送客于大阳郭，遥见暠，异之。还白歆曰： 为尹得孝廉矣，近洛阳门下史也。
歆笑曰： 当得山泽隐滞，乃洛阳吏邪？
谌曰： 山泽不必有异士，异士不必在山泽。
歆即召暠于庭，辩诘职事。
暠辞对有序，歆甚知之，召署主簿，遂举孝谦，辟太尉府，举高第。
顺帝末，为侍御使。
时，所遣八使光禄大夫杜乔、周举等，多所纠奏，而大将军梁冀及诸宦官互为请救，事皆被寝遏。
暠自以职主刺举，志案奸违，乃复劾诸为八使所举蜀郡太守刘宣等罪恶章露，宜伏欧刀。
又奏请敕四府条举近臣父兄及知亲为刺史、二千石尤残秽不胜任者，免遭案罪。
帝乃从之。
translation: 
It is shameful for Zang Boyu to think that he is a gentleman alone.
You do not pay attention to the clear teachings of the sage Confucius, but you envy Shuyi Boqi's trivial ethics. Don’t you want to value yourself in the world with your purity?
Wang Chang said: In the past, when Gong Yixiu was the prime minister of Lu, he uprooted the sunflowers in the garden and divorced his weaver wife; Sun Shu Ao was prime minister of Chu, and his son was killed by Qiu.
Few people fail by saving.
After listening to Boyi's noble character, corrupt people will become honest, and cowardly people will be determined to improve themselves.
Although I have no virtue, I admire the achievements of the ancients.
Later he was appointed as Changle Guardsman.
In the first year of Jianning, he was promoted to Sikong. Only a few months later, he was dismissed due to floods.
The next year, he died at home.
His son Wang Qian was the general and he Jin had a long history.
Wang Can, Wang Qian's son, is famous for his literary talent.
◆Zhong Hao's biography, Zhong Hao's courtesy name was Jing Bo, and he was a native of Luoyang County, Henan County. Descendants of Zhongshanfu.
His father was the magistrate of Dingtao County and had a fortune of thirty million.
After his father died, Zhong Hao used all the money to help the poor in his clan and county.
Those who strive for fame and wealth, Zhong Hao will not associate with them.
Started to work as a county clerk.
At that time, Wang Chen, the nephew of Yin Tianxin in Henan Province, had a good understanding of people.
Tian Xin said to Wang Chen: Now I have to recommend six filial and honest people. I have received many letters from relatives of high-ranking officials and nobles. I cannot go against their orders. I want to use one of my own to serve the country. Please help me find them.
The next day, Wang Chen sent guests to Dayangguo. He saw Zhong Hao from a distance and thought he was not a mortal. He went back and told Tian Xin, "I have found a Xiaolian for you, who is a member of the Luoyang family."
Tian Xin laughed and said: "The person who should be prayed for to live in seclusion in Shanze and not be an official turns out to be a Luoyang official!"
Wang Chen said: There may not necessarily be strangers in the mountains and rivers, and strangers may not necessarily be in the mountains and rivers.
Tian Xin immediately summoned Zhong Hao in the court and asked him about his duties.
Zhong Hao spoke in an orderly manner, and Tian Xin understood what he said very well, so he called him to act as the chief registrar. Therefore, he promoted filial piety and integrity, and was summoned to the Taiwei Mansion, where he was promoted to a high rank for his outstanding performance.
In the last years of Emperor Shun's reign, he served as the censor.
Many of the eight envoys dispatched at that time, such as Du Qiao and Zhou Ju, the Guanglu officials, were impeached. General Liang Ji and other eunuchs asked each other for help and interceded, and the matter was shelved and stopped.
Zhong Hao believed that his duty was to expose and report, and he was determined to investigate and punish traitors, so he impeached Liu Xuan, the governor of Shu County, and others who were reported by the eight envoys. Their crimes were obvious and they should be sentenced to death.
He also petitioned the four prefectures to order the fathers, brothers, relatives and friends of the four governors who were particularly cruel, despicable and incompetent to be dismissed from office and punished.
The emperor accepted his opinion.
summary:
Zhong Hao, courtesy name Jing Bo, was from Luoyang County. After his father died, he used his inheritance to help the poor. He was recommended as filial and incorrupt by Wang Chen, who recognized his potential. Zhong Hao served as censor under Emperor Shun, impeaching corrupt officials recommended by Liang Ji. When eunuch Gao Fan came to meet the crown prince, Zhong Hao prevented him from entering without proper authorization, earning imperial praise. As Yizhou governor, he extended Han influence to foreign tribes. He exposed a prefect who presented gold snakes to Liang Ji, earning Liang Ji's enmity. After being framed by Liang Ji, he was pardoned due to Li Gu's intervention. He later served as Liangzhou governor, winning great popularity, and as Hanyang prefect, where he taught Qiang and Hu people. As general against the Xiongnu, he secured border peace through sincere persuasion. He became Situ in Yanxi's fourth year, recommending capable ministers, and died at sixty-one, mourned by border residents and even the Xiongnu.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
李、郭之乱。长安城溃，百官多避兵冲，拂挥剑而出曰： 为国大臣，不能止戈除暴，致使凶贼兵刃向宫，去欲何之！
遂战而死。子劭。
劭字申甫。
少知名。
中平末，为谏议大夫。
大将军何进将诛宦官，召并州牧董卓，至渑池，而进意更狐疑，遣劭宣诏止之。
卓不受，遂前至河南。
劭迎劳之，因譬令还军。
卓疑有变，使其军士以兵胁劭。
劭怒，称诏大呼叱之，军士皆披，遂前质责卓。卓辞屈，乃还军夕阳亭。
及进败，献帝即位，拜劭为侍中。
卓既擅权，而恶劭强力，遂左转议郎，出为益、凉二州刺史。
会父拂战死，竟不之职。服终，征为少府、大鸿胪，皆辞不受。
曰： 昔我先父以身徇国，吾为臣子，不能除残复怨，何面目朝觐明主哉！
遂与马腾、韩遂及左中郎刘范、谏议大夫马宇共攻李、郭，以报其仇。
与战于长平观下，军败，劭等皆死。
腾遂还凉州。
陈球字伯真，下邳淮浦人也。
历世著名。
父，广汉太守。
球少涉儒学，善律令。
阳嘉中，举孝廉，稍迁繁阳令。
时魏郡太守讽县求纳货贿，球不与之，太守怒而挝督邮，欲令逐球。
督邮不肯，曰： 魏郡十五城，独繁阳有异政，今受命逐之，将致议于天下矣。
太守乃止。
复辟公府，举高第，拜侍御史。
是时，桂阳黠贼李研等群聚寇抄，陆梁荆部，州郡懦弱，不能禁，太尉杨秉表球为零陵太守。
球到，设方略，期月间，贼虏消散。
而州兵朱盖等反，与桂阳贼胡兰数万人转攻零陵。
零陵下湿，编木为城，不可守备，郡中惶恐。
掾史白遣家避难，球怒曰： 太守分国虎符，受任一邦，岂顾妻孥而沮国威重乎？
translation: 
Li Chu and Guo Si rebelled, and the city of Chang'an was destroyed. Many officials fled to avoid the attack of the soldiers. Zhong Fu came out with his sword and said: As a minister of the country, you can't stop the chaos and eliminate violence. Let the thieves rush into the palace and run wherever they want!
So he fought to the death, and his son Zhong Shao.
◆Zhong Shao Zhuan, Zhong Shao is named Shenfu.
Famous at a young age.
In the last years of Zhongping, he served as an admonishing official.
大将军何进准备诛杀宦官，召并州牧董卓，董卓到渑池，何进狐疑，拿不定主意了。
Zhong Shao was sent to issue an edict to prevent Dong Zhuo from entering the capital. Dong Zhuo refused and advanced to Henan.
Zhong Shao went to greet them and comfort them, and persuaded Dong Zhuo to withdraw.
Dong Zhuo suspected that something was going on, so his sergeants threatened Zang Shao with a gun.
Zhong Shao became angry, claimed that there was an edict, and shouted loudly, causing the soldiers to disperse. Zhong Shao stepped forward to question and blame Dong Zhuo, but Dong Zhuo had nothing to say in response, so he had to retreat to Sunset Pavilion.
When He Jin failed, Emperor Xian ascended the throne and made Shao a doctor.
Dong Zhuo had monopolized power and was a powerful villain. He was demoted to Yilang and made governor of Yizhou and Liangzhou.
When his father died in battle and he was unable to take up his post, the period of mourning expired and he was recruited as a Shaofu or Dahonglu, but neither of them accepted it.
He said: My late father died for the country, and as a minister, I cannot drive away the cruelty and avenge the resentment in my heart. How can I show my face to the Lord!
So together with Ma Teng, Han Sui, Zuo Zhonglang Liu Fan, and admonishment official Ma Yu, they attacked Li Chu and Guo Si to avenge their hatred.
He fought with Guo Si at Changping Temple, but failed. Zhong Shao and others died in the battle.
Ma Teng went back to Liangzhou.
◆Chen Qiu Chuan, also known as Chen Qiu, also known as Bo Zhen, was a native of Huaipu County, Xiapi County.
It has been famous throughout the ages.
His father, Chen Yi, was the governor of Guanghan.
When Chen Qiu was young, he read Confucianism extensively and was familiar with laws and regulations.
In the middle period of Yangjia, Xiaolian was promoted and Fanyang Order was promoted.
At that time, the prefect of Wei County hinted that the county would send bribes, but Chen Qiu refused. The prefect became angry and whipped the postal supervisor, hoping to expel Chen Qiu.
The governor refused and said: "In the fifteen cities of Wei County, Du Fanyang has good political performance. Now if I want to expel Chen Qiu, it will arouse discussion among the people in the world."
The governor didn't dare to do this.
Later, he was promoted to a high official in the imperial palace because of his outstanding performance, and was granted the title of Imperial Censor.
At this time, the most cunning bandit in Guiyang, Li Yan, and others gathered to invade and loot the Jing tribe. The prefectures and counties were cowardly and could not stop them. Taiwei Yang Bing recommended Chen Qiu as the prefect of Lingling.
Chen Qiu went to the county to study the methods and strategies of the conquest. In just one month, some of Li Yan and other bandits were eliminated, and some fled.
However, the state soldiers Zhu Gai and others rebelled and joined forces with the Guiyang thief Hu Lan and tens of thousands of people to attack Lingling.
The ground in Lingling was damp, and the city was made of woven wood. It could not be defended or defended, and the people in the county were panicked.
The governor told Chen Qiu that he wanted to send his family members to seek refuge. Chen Qiu got angry and said: "The prefect has taken the tiger talisman of the country and is responsible for governing the country. How can he only care about his wife and son and undermine the authority of the country?"
summary:
Zhong Hao's son Zhong Dai, courtesy name Gongzu, loved learning but refused official appointments, dying of illness. His brother Zhong Fu, courtesy name Yingbo, served as Wan County magistrate, where he shamed corrupt officials into reform. He became Sikong but was dismissed due to earthquakes. When Li Chu and Guo Si rebelled, Zhong Fu fought to the death in the palace, dying alongside his son Zhong Shao. Zhong Shao, courtesy name Shenfu, served as an admonishing official. He confronted Dong Zhuo, forcing him to retreat. After Dong Zhuo seized power, Zhong Shao refused high office, declaring he could not face the emperor while his father's murderers remained unpunished. He joined Ma Teng and others to attack Li Chu and Guo Si but died in battle.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
忠省球议，作色俯仰，蚩球曰： 陈廷尉建此议甚健！
球曰： 陈、窦既冤，皇太后无故幽闭，臣常痛心，天下愤叹。
今日言之，退而受罪，宿昔之愿。
公卿以下，皆从球议。
李咸始不敢先发，见球辞正，然后大言曰： 臣本谓宜尔，诚与臣意合。
会者皆为之愧。
曹节、王甫复争，以为梁后家犯恶逆，虽葬懿陵，武帝黜废卫后，而以李夫人配食。
今窦氏罪深，岂得合葬先帝乎？
李咸乃诣阙上疏曰： 臣伏惟章德窦后虐害恭怀，安思阎后家犯恶逆，而和帝无异葬之议，顺朝无贬降之文。
至于卫后，孝武皇帝身所废弃，不可以为比。
今长乐太后尊号在身，亲尝称制，坤育天下，且授立圣明，光隆皇祚。
太后以陛下为子，陛下岂得不以太后为母？
子无黜母，臣无贬君，宜合葬宣陵，一如旧制。
帝省奏，谓曹节等曰： 窦氏虽为不道，而太后有德于朕，不宜降黜。
节等无复言，于是议者乃定。
咸字元贞，汝南人。
累经洲郡，以廉干知名，在朝清忠，权幸惮之。
六年，迁球司空，以地震免。
拜光禄大夫，复为廷尉、太常。
光和元年，迁太尉，数月，以日食免。复拜光禄大夫。
明年，为永乐少府，乃潜与司徒河间刘郃谋诛宦官。
初，郃兄侍中，与大将军窦武同谋俱死，故郃与球相结。
事未及发，球复以书劝郃曰： 公出自宗室，位登台鼎，天下瞻望，社稷镇卫，岂得雷同容容无违而已？
今曹节等放纵为害，而久在左右，又公兄侍中受害节等，永乐太后所亲知也。
今可表徙卫尉阳球为司隶校尉，以次收节等诛之。
政出圣主，天下太平，可翘足而待也。
translation: 
After Zhao Zhong saw Chen Qiu's reasons, he changed his color and sneered at Chen Qiu, saying: "Chen Tingwei suggested this, you are very knowledgeable!"
Chen Qiu said: Since Chen Fan and Dou Wu were unjustly convicted, and the Empress Dowager was imprisoned for no reason, I am often saddened, and everyone in the world is indignant and sighing for this.
I have said this today, and if you are accused of being blamed after the meeting, this has been my wish for a long time.
Everyone below the minister agreed with Chen Qiu's opinion.
Li Xian didn't dare to speak at first, but listened to Chen Qiu's righteous words, and then said loudly: I said it should be like this, and what Chen Qiu said was exactly what I wanted.
Everyone present was ashamed of him.
Cao Jie and Wang Fu argued again, believing that the Empress Liang's family had committed a crime and should not be buried in Yiling. Emperor Wu deposed the Empress Wei and used Mrs. Li as a food ration.
Now that the Dou family has committed a serious crime, can they bury the late emperor together?
Li Xian then went to the court and said, "I believe that Empress Zhang De Dou abused and tortured Gong Huai, and An Si and Yan Hou's family committed crimes, but he and the emperor had no intention of being buried together, and there was no word about demotion in Shun Temple."
As for the Queen of Wei, it cannot be compared with the one abandoned by Emperor Xiaowu.
Now she holds the title of Empress Dowager Changle, and she once came to the court to exercise authority, exercise the power of the emperor, educate the world, and install the current emperor to the throne.
The Queen Mother regards the Emperor as her son, can the Emperor not recognize the Queen Mother as his mother?
A son cannot depose his mother, and ministers cannot demote the emperor. They should be buried together in Xuanling, fully abiding by the old system.
The emperor read the memorial and said to Cao Jie and others: Although the surnamed Dou is immoral, the Queen Mother has virtues for me and should not be demoted.
Cao Jie said nothing more, so the discussion was settled.
Li Xian, courtesy name Yuan Zhen, was from Runan.
From state to county, it rises step by step. He is famous for his integrity and ability; he is loyal to the court, and generally the powerful and flattering people are afraid of him.
In the sixth year, Chen Qiu was promoted to Sikong, but was dismissed due to an earthquake.
He was awarded Doctor Guanglu and then Tingwei and Taichang.
In the first year of Guanghe, he was promoted to Taiwei. After a few months, he was dismissed due to a solar eclipse and was awarded the title of Guanglu doctor.
In the second year, he was appointed as the Shaofu of Yongle, so he secretly planned with Situ Hejian and Liu to kill the eunuchs.
At first, Liu's elder brother, the minister Liu Zhen, conspired with the general Dou Wu to kill the eunuchs, but they were both killed by the eunuchs, so Liu and Chen Qiu formed a conspiracy.
Before the matter got started, Chen Qiu wrote another letter to persuade Liu: "The Duke is a descendant of the clan, and he is the third Duke. He is respected by people all over the world. Can the vassal guard of the country just go along with it and tolerate it without any objection?"
Now Cao Jie and others are doing wanton harm and have always been by your side, and your brother Shizhong was harmed by Cao Jie and others. This is known to the Empress Dowager Yongle.
Now we can transfer Wei Yangqiu from Wei to Sili Xiaowei, and capture and kill Cao Jie and others in turn.
In this way, the emperor will take charge personally and the world will be at peace soon.
summary:
Chen Qiu, courtesy name Bo Zhen, was from Huaipu County, Xiapi. He was learned in Confucianism and law. As Fanyang magistrate, he refused to send bribes to the Wei prefect, who could not dismiss him due to his good reputation. As Lingling prefect, he defeated bandits and suppressed a rebellion, using innovative defensive tactics. He later became Nanyang governor but was slandered by powerful families and returned home. As Tingwei, he argued successfully for Empress Dowager Dou to be buried with Emperor Huan, despite opposition from eunuchs Cao Jie and Wang Fu. He later became Sikong but was dismissed due to earthquakes. He secretly plotted with Liu to kill eunuchs, but his wife's relative Cheng Huang betrayed them to Cao Jie. The emperor imprisoned Chen Qiu, who died in prison at sixty-two.

