Chunk 0: 
original: 
肃宗孝章皇帝讳炟，显宗第五子也。
母贾贵人。永平三年，立为皇太子。
少宽容，好儒术，显宗器重之。
十八年八月壬子，即皇帝位，年十九。尊皇后曰皇太后。
壬戌，葬孝明皇帝于显节陵。
冬十月丁未，大赦天下。
赐民爵，人二级，为父后及孝悌、力田人三级，脱无名数及流人欲占者人一级，爵过公乘得移与子若同产子；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃、贫不能自存者粟，人三斛。
诏曰： 朕以眇身，托于王侯之上，统理万机，惧失厥中，兢兢业业，未知所济。
深惟守文之主，必建师傅之官。
《诗》不云乎： 不愆不忘，率由旧章。
行太尉事节乡侯憙，三世在位，为国元老；司空融，典职六年，勤劳不怠。
其以憙为太傅，融为太尉，并录尚书事。三事大夫，莫肯夙夜 ，《小雅》之所伤也。
予违汝弼，汝无面从 ，股肱之正义也。
translation: 
Emperor Suzong Xiaozhang was named Huodan and was the fifth son of Xianzong.
His mother, Jia Guiren, was established as the crown prince in the third year of Yongping.
He was young and tolerant, loved Confucianism, and was highly valued by Xianzong.
On the sixth day of August in the eighteenth year of Yongping, he became emperor. At the age of nineteen, he honored the queen as the empress dowager.
On the 16th, Emperor Xiaoming was buried in Xianjie Mausoleum.
On the second day of October in winter, there is a general amnesty.
The title of nobility is awarded to men in the world, with a second level for each person, a third level for each person who is a father, a filial brother, and Li Tian, ​​and a first level for each person who has no household registration in exile and wants to return. The title can be transferred to his son or brother's son if he has passed the public title. Those who are widowed, widowed, lonely, alone, terminally ill, or too poor to live will be given three husks of dendrobium millet each.
The edict said: I am small and weak in virtue. I am above the princes and in charge of everything. I am afraid of being biased and making mistakes. I am conscientious in my work and do not know how to do it well.
I know very well that a monarch who abides by the law must build an official like a master.
Isn’t it said in the Book of Songs? When he became a king, he did not make any mistakes or violate any laws, because he followed the old rules and regulations of Zhou Gong.
Zhao, the Marquis of Jiexiang, who acted as the agent for the Taiwei, had served as an official for three dynasties and was a veteran of the country; Sikong Mourong, who had been in office for six years, was diligent and diligent.
Now Zhao is appointed as Taifu, Mou Rong is appointed as Taiwei, and he is also in charge of the secretarial affairs. Doctor Sangong was unconscious at dawn and dusk. Xiaoya thought it was wrong.
When the king makes mistakes, his subordinates should correct them and not be submissive. The principle stated in "Shang Shu Yi Ji" is the legitimate principle of the country.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
群后百僚，勉思厥职，各贡忠诚，以辅不逮。
申敕四方，称朕意焉。
十一月戊戌，蜀郡太守第五伦为司空。
诏征西将军耿秉屯酒泉。遣酒泉太守段彭救戊己校尉耿恭。
甲辰晦，日有食之。
于是避正殿，寝兵，不听事五日。
诏有司各上封事。
十二月癸巳，有司奏言： 孝明皇帝圣德淳茂，劬劳日昊，身御浣衣，食无兼珍。
泽臻四表，远人慕化，僬侥、儋耳，款塞自至。
克伐鬼方，开道西域，威灵广被，无思不服。
以烝庶为忧，不以天下为乐。
备三雍之教，躬养老之礼。
作登歌，正予乐，博贯六艺，不舍昼夜。聪明渊塞，著在图谶。
至德所感，通于神明。
功烈光于四海，仁风行于千载。
而深执谦谦，自称不德，无起寝庙，扫地而祭，除日祀之法，省送终之礼。遂藏主于光烈皇后更衣别室。
天下闻之，莫不凄怆。
陛下至孝烝烝，奉顺圣德。
臣愚以为更衣在中门之外，处所殊别，宜尊庙曰显宗，其四时禘袷，于光武之堂，间祀悉还更衣，共进《武德》之舞，如孝文皇帝袷祭高庙故事。 制曰： 可。
translation: 
All ministers and officials should do their jobs well and support me with their loyalty.
Now I understand that I am sending orders to all directions, hoping to fulfill my wishes.
On November 24, Wu Lun, the prefect of Shu County, was appointed Sikong.
General Geng Bing was ordered to garrison Jiuquan, and Duan Peng, the prefect of Jiuquan, was ordered to rescue Geng Gong, the captain of Wuji School.
On the 30th, dusk, solar eclipse.
So Emperor Zhang avoided the main hall, stopped fighting, and did not go to court for five days.
Officials from various ministries were ordered to write a seal on the government's affairs and make criticisms and suggestions.
On December 20, the relevant departments reported: Emperor Xiaoming had a simple and noble virtue, worked hard all day long, wore dirty clothes, and had no taste for food.
His kindness spread to all directions, and people from far away admired his righteousness and enlightenment. Xuan fluke, Dan Er, Tonghao returns.
He defeated the ghosts and developed the Western Regions, and his reputation spread far and wide, and no one was dissatisfied.
Worry about the lives of the common people and do not take pleasure in ruling the world.
Complete the teachings of Sanyong and practice the ritual of caring for the elderly.
He sings in the hall, dances and plays eight hundred people, is proficient in the six arts, does not rest day and night, and is wise and far-reaching, as shown in the prophecy.
The sense of supreme virtue is connected with the gods.
His great achievements have illuminated the world, and his benevolence has been passed down for thousands of years.
But he was always modest, claiming to be immoral, not being able to sleep in the temple, sweeping the floor to offer sacrifices, exempting himself from the system of daily sacrifices, omitting the etiquette of farewell, and hiding the spiritual tablets of the gods in Queen Guanglie's dressing room.
When people all over the world heard about it, they were all devastated.
The emperor is extremely filial, honest and honest, and he practices holy virtues.
The ministers and others thought that changing clothes was outside the middle gate, in a special place. The name of the temple should be Xianzong, and the main sacrifices at four o'clock will be held in the Guangwu Temple Hall. Normally, after hearing the sacrifices, they will go back to the side hall to hold them, and perform the "Wude" dance together, just like Emperor Xiaowen held sacrifices in the Gaomiao Temple. Emperor Zhang’s instructions: Yes.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
是岁，年疫。京师及三州大旱，诏勿收兖、豫、徐州田租、刍稿，其以见谷赈给贫人。
建初元年春正月，诏三州郡国： 方春东作，恐人稍受禀，往来烦剧，或妨耕农。
其各实核尤贫者，计所贷并与之。
流人欲归本者，郡县其实禀，令足还到，听过止官亭，无雇舍宿。
长吏亲躬，无使贫弱遗脱，小吏豪右得容奸妄。
诏书既下，勿得稽留，刺史明加督察尤无状者。
丙寅，诏曰： 比年牛多疾疫，垦田减少，谷价颇贵，人以流亡。
方春东作，宜及时务。
二千石勉劝农桑，弘致劳来。
群公庶尹，各推精诚，专急人事。
罪非殊死，须立秋案验。
translation: 
In this year, cattle plague broke out, and there was a severe drought in the capital and three prefectures. The order was not to collect land rent and firewood in Yan, Henan, and Xuzhou, and to use existing grains to help the poor.
In the first month of spring in the first year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, an order was issued to the three prefectures and counties: Now is the time for spring plowing, and I am afraid that a little food and poor people will be troubled, and it will hinder farming.
Those who are particularly poor should be individually identified and loans should be given to them together.
If wandering people want to return to their hometown, the county or county must provide them with sufficient food rations to enable them to return to their hometown, and let them stay in the official pavilion of the post station without paying for the inn.
The senior officials should personally check the matter, so as not to let the poor and weak people slip through the cracks and allow the powerful and small officials to cheat.
Now that the edict is issued, do not delay. The governor Mingjia will supervise those who have committed particularly serious crimes.
On the 23rd, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: In recent years, there have been many cattle diseases, cultivated land has decreased, grain prices have been very high, and the population has been exiled.
It is spring plowing now, so we should seize the farming season in time.
Two thousand stones should be used to encourage people to engage in mulberry farming and make everyone diligent in farming.
The ministers and officials must treat each other with sincerity and devote themselves to the affairs of the common people.
Except for those who insist on beheading, the prisoners will not be tried until the beginning of autumn.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
有司明慎选举，进柔良，退贪猾，顺时令，理冤狱。 五教在宽 ，帝《典》所美；恺悌君子，《大雅》所叹。
布告天下，使明知朕意。
酒泉太守段彭讨击车师，大破之。罢戊己校尉官。
二月，武陵澧中蛮叛。
三月甲寅，山阳、东平地震。
己巳，诏曰： 朕以无德，奉承大业，夙夜栗栗，不敢荒宁。
而灾异仍见，与政相应。
朕既不明，涉道日寡；又选举乖实，俗吏伤人，官职耗乱，刑罚不中，可不忧与！
昔仲弓季氏之家臣，子游武城之小宰，孔子犹诲以贤才，问以得人。
明政无大小，以得人为本。
夫乡举里选，必累功劳。今刺史、守相不明真伪，茂才、孝廉岁以百数，既非能显，而当授之政事，甚无谓也。
每寻前世举人贡士，或起甽亩，不系阀阅。
敷奏以言，则文章可采；明试以功，则政有异迹。文质彬彬，朕甚嘉之。
其令太傅、三公、中二千石、二千石、郡国守相，举贤良方正、能直言极谏之士各一人。
夏五月辛酉，初举孝廉、郎中宽博有谋，任典城者，以补长、相。
translation: 
Relevant departments must carefully select and recommend personnel, recruit gentle people, reject greedy and cunning people, comply with the times, and clean up unjust prisons. The foundation of the Five Religions is tolerance, which is praised by "Shang Shu Shun Dian"; parents' officialdom is to be easy-going, which is praised by "Shi Da Ya Dong Zuo".
Announce to the world so that the world can understand my thoughts.
Duan Peng, the prefect of Jiuquan, attacked Che Division and defeated Che Division's army. Then go to Wuji School as a lieutenant.
In February, the barbarians in Wuling and Lizhong rebelled.
On March 12, Shanyang and Dongping earthquakes occurred.
On the 27th, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: I inherited the emperor's legacy because of my lack of virtue. I am restless day and night, and I dare not live in peace.
And disasters continue to appear, corresponding to government affairs.
I am not wise in the first place. I have only been involved in the road for a short time. The people I recommend are not worthy of their names. The common officials harm the people. The official position is in disorder. The punishment is inappropriate. How can I not worry?
In the past, Zhong Gong was a retainer of the Ji family, and Zi You was a small prime minister of Wucheng. Confucius even taught that talented people should be promoted and asked if they could find capable people.
Qingming's political affairs, no matter how big or small, are based on getting people to govern.
Recommendations for rural elections require a lot of hard work. Nowadays, the governor and the prime minister do not know whether they are genuine or not. Maocai and Xiaolian recommend hundreds of people a year. They are not very capable people, and it is really boring to teach them political affairs.
Whenever I think about the recommenders in past lives, some of them started out in the fields and did not pay attention to their family background.
If they are asked to write letters to discuss affairs, most of what they say can be adopted; if they are tried in their posts, they will see unusual political achievements. Gentle and polite, I appreciate it very much.
Now the Taifu, Sangong, Zhong Erqianshi, Erqianshi, and the Prime Minister of the county are ordered to recommend one person each who is virtuous, upright, and able to speak out and criticize.
On the 20th day of the fifth lunar month in the summer, we began to recommend Xiaolian. Among the doctors, those who were generous, knowledgeable, and strategic enough to preside over government affairs were used to supplement the county magistrates and prime ministers.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
秋七月辛亥，诏以上林池篽田赋与贫人。
八月庚寅，有星孛于天市。
九月，永昌哀牢夷叛。
冬十月，武陵郡兵讨叛蛮，破降之。
十一月，阜陵王延谋反，贬为阜陵侯。
二年春三月辛丑，诏曰： 比年阴阳不调，饥馑屡臻。
深惟先帝忧人之本，诏书曰： 不伤财，不害人 ，诚欲元元去末归本。
而今贵戚近亲，奢纵无度，嫁娶送终，尤为僣侈。
有司废典，莫肯举察。《春秋》之义，以贵理贱。
今自三公，并宜明纠非法，宣振威风。
朕在弱冠，未知稼穑之艰难，区区管窥，岂能照一隅哉！
其科条制度所宜施行，在事者备为之禁，先京师而后诸夏。
甲辰，罢伊吾庐屯兵。
永昌、越巂、益州三郡民、夷讨哀牢，破平之。
夏四月戊子，诏还坐楚、淮阳事徙者四百余家，令归本郡。
translation: 
On the 11th day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, the imperial edict was issued to give the land enclosed in Shanglin Garden to the poor.
On August 20, a comet appeared in Tianshixing.
In September, Yongchang Ailao Yi rebelled.
In the tenth month of winter, soldiers from Wuling County attacked the rebels, defeated them, and forced them to surrender.
In November, Fuling King Liu Yan rebelled and was demoted to Fuling Marquis.
On the fifth day of March in the second year, the edict said: In recent years, Yin and Yang have not been harmonious, and famines have occurred one after another.
Thinking deeply about the fundamental reason why the late emperor was worried about the common people is what the edict said: No harm to wealth, no harm to the people. He sincerely hopes that the common people will return to their roots and engage in farming.
But now the nobles and close relatives are arrogant and extravagant, marrying and dying, and doing things beyond their status and financial resources.
Officials violated laws and disciplines. No one dared to report it. The meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is to value the noble and the humble.
From now on, we will clearly correct illegal behaviors and promote dignity.
When I was young, I didn't know how difficult it was to farm. Can a mere fool at first sight illuminate a person?
Everyone must abide by all the rules and regulations that should be implemented, first in the capital and then in the local area.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, we went to Yiwulu to station troops.
The people and barbarians of the three counties of Yongchang, Yuexun, and Yizhou attacked Ailao, defeated Ailao, and the place was pacified.
On the 22nd day of April in the summer, more than 400 families who had moved due to the rebellion of Chu King Liu Ying and Huaiyang King Liu Yan were ordered to return to their own county.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
癸巳，诏齐相省冰纨、方空縠、吹纶絮。
六月，烧当羌叛，金城太守郝崇讨之，败绩，羌遂寇汉阳。
秋八月，遣行车骑将军马防讨平之。
十二月戊寅，有星孛于紫宫。
三年春正月己酉，宗祀明堂。
礼毕，登灵台，望云物。
大赦天下。
三月癸巳，立贵人窦氏为皇后。
赐爵，人二级、三老、孝悌、力田人三级，民无名数及流民欲占者人一级；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃、贫不能自存者粟，人五斛。
夏四月己巳，罢常山呼沲石臼河漕。
行车骑将军马防破烧当羌于临洮。
闰月，西域假司马班超击姑墨，大破之。冬十二月丁酉，以马防为车骑将军。武陵溇中蛮叛。
是岁，零陵献芝草。
四年春二月庚寅，太尉牟融薨。
夏四月戊子，立皇子庆为皇太子。
赐爵，人二级，三老、孝悌、力田人三级，民无名数及流人欲自占者人一级；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃、贫不能自存者粟，人五斛。
己丑，徙巨鹿王恭为江陵王，汝南王畅为梁王，常山王昞为淮阳王。
辛卯，封皇子伉为千乘王，全为平春王。
五月丙辰，车骑将军马防罢。
甲戌，司徒鲍昱为太尉，南阳太守桓虞为司徒。
六月癸丑，皇太后马氏崩。
秋七月壬戌，葬明德皇后。
冬，牛大疫。
translation: 
On the 27th, he ordered Prime Minister Qi to omit Bingwan, Fang Konggu, and Chui Lunxu from serving as officials.
In June, the Shaodang Qiang rebelled. Hao Chong, the prefect of Jincheng, went to attack them, but was severely defeated. The Qiang invaded Hanyang.
In autumn and August, the acting chariot and cavalry general Ma Fang was sent to attack and put down the rebellion.
On December 16, the comet appeared in the constellation Purple Palace.
On the seventeenth day of the first lunar month in the third year of spring, we worshiped our ancestors in the Mingtang.
After the ceremony, go up to the spiritual platform and look at the clouds.
Amnesty to the world.
On the second day of March, the noble Dou family was made queen.
Reward the men in the world with a second-level title, three elders, filial brothers, and Litian each with a third-level title, and each person without household registration and refugees who want to return to their homeland will be given a first-level title. Those who are widowed, widowed, orphaned, alone, terminally ill, or poor and unable to survive will be given five dendrobium grains each.
On the ninth day of April in summer, construction of Changshan, Huchi, and Shijiu river canals was stopped.
The acting chariot general Ma Fang defeated the Shaodang Qiang in Lintao.
In the leap month, the fake Sima Banchao in Xicheng defeated Gumo. On the 11th day of the twelfth month in winter, Ma Fang was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry. The barbarians in the middle of Wuling rebelled.
This year, Lingling offered Zhicao.
On the fifth day of February in the fourth year, Taiwei Mou Rong passed away.
On the fourth day of April in the summer, Prince Liu Qing was made the crown prince.
Reward every man in the world with a second rank, three elders, filial brothers, and Litian each with a third rank, and every unregistered citizen and homeless person who wants to return home will be given a first rank. Those who are widowed, widowed, orphaned, alone, terminally ill, or poor and unable to survive will each receive five husks of dendrobium millet.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Liu Gong, the king of Julu, was transferred to be the king of Jiangling, Liu Chang, the king of Runan, was the king of Liang, and Liu Ribing, the king of Changshan, was transferred to the king of Huaiyang.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, the prince Liu and his wife were named Qiancheng King, and Liu Quan was named Pingchun King.
On the second day of May, he was dismissed from the post of general of horse defense, chariot and cavalry.
On the 20th, Situ Bao Yu was appointed as Taiwei, and Nanyang Governor Huan Yu was appointed as Situ.
On June 30, Empress Dowager Ma passed away.
On the ninth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, Empress Mingde was buried.
In winter, widespread diseases occurred among cattle.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
十一月壬戌，诏曰： 盖三代导人，教学为本。
汉承暴秦，褒显儒术，建立《五经》，为置博士。
其后学者精进，虽曰承师，亦别名家。
孝宣皇帝以为去圣久远，学不厌博，故遂立《大、小夏侯尚书》，后又立《京氏易》。
至建武中，复置《颜氏、严氏春秋》，《大、小戴礼》博士。
此皆所以扶进微学，尊广道艺也。
中元元年诏书，《五经》章句烦多，议欲减省。
至永平元年，长水校尉儵奏言，先帝大业，当以时施行。
欲使诸儒共正经义，颇令学者得以自助。
孔子曰： 学之不讲，是吾忧也。
又曰： 博学而笃志，切问而近思，仁在其中矣。
於戏，其勉之哉！ 于是下太常，将、大夫、博士、议郎、郎官及诸生、诸儒会白虎观，讲议《五经》同异，使五官中郎将魏应承制问，侍中淳于恭奏，帝亲称制临决，如孝宣甘露石渠故事，作《白虎议奏》。
translation: 
On November 11, Emperor Zhang issued an edict stating: The three generations have enlightened and guided the people, and teaching is the basis.
The Han Dynasty succeeded the Qin Dynasty, praised Confucianism, established the Five Classics, and established doctors.
Since then, scholars have made great progress. Although they inherited the teacher's studies, they did not belong to the same family.
Emperor Xiaoxuan believed that he was far away from the saints and never tired of learning, so he established the "Da and Xiao Xia Hou Shangshu" and later the "Jingshi Yi".
When it came to Jianwu Middle School, there were also doctors named Yanshi Chunqiu, Yanshi Chunqiu, Dadaili and Xiaodaili.
This is all to support micro-learning and respect new and open Taoism.
In the imperial edict of the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, there were many chapters and sentences in the "Five Classics", and I wanted to agree to reduce them.
In the first year of Yongping, Fan Xiu, the captain of Changshui School, wrote that the great cause of the late emperor should be implemented in a timely manner.
It is necessary for all Confucian scholars to correctly understand the meaning of the scriptures, which will greatly help scholars improve.
Confucius said: Not paying attention to academics is what worries me the most.
He also said: If you study extensively and are determined to act with determination, delve deeply into issues you don’t understand, and think over and over about things you already understand, then benevolence is within. well!
Let’s all work hard! So from Taichang down, generals, officials, doctors, Yilang, Langguan and other Confucian scholars gathered in Baihu Temple to discuss the similarities and differences of the Five Classics. The five officials were ordered to make Wei Yingcheng ask questions, and Chunyu Gong, the minister, made a report. The emperor personally called the emperor to make a final decision, just like the precedent of Emperor Xiaoxuan's Ganlu 2nd year and Ganlu, where Confucian scholars at Shiqutai lectured on the Five Classics and wrote "Baihu Tong".


Chunk 7: 
original: 
是岁，甘露降泉陵、洮阳二县。
五年春二月庚辰朔，日有食之。
诏曰： 朕新离供养，愆咎众著，上天降异，大变随之。《诗》不云乎： 亦孔之丑。
又久旱伤麦，忧心惨切。
公卿已下，其举直言极谏、能指朕过失者各一人，遣诣公车，将亲览问焉。
其以岩穴为先，勿取浮华。
甲申，诏曰： 《春秋》书 无麦苗 ，重之也。
去秋雨泽不适，今时复旱，如炎如焚。凶年无时，而为备未至。
朕之不德，上累三光，震栗忉忉，痛心疾首。
前代圣君，博思咨诹，虽降灾咎，辄有开匮反风之应。
令予小子，徒惨惨而已。
其令二千石理冤狱，录轻系；祷五岳四渎，及名山能兴云致雨者，冀蒙不崇朝遍雨天下之报。
务加肃敬焉。
translation: 
This year, there were timely rains in Quanling and Taoyang counties.
In the spring of the fifth year, on the first day of the second lunar month, there was a solar eclipse.
Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: I have just suffered from the death of the Queen Mother. Misfortunes and misfortunes are gathering, visions appear in the sky, and huge changes are coming. Isn't it said in "The Book of Songs·Xiaoya"? Solar eclipses are very bad.
Coupled with the prolonged drought that has damaged the wheat, I am extremely worried.
It is recommended that each of the ministers and below recommend one person who can boldly criticize and point out my faults and send them to the bus door. I will personally interview and inquire.
Recommended people should be those from remote places in caves, and don't be frivolous and unreliable.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Emperor Zhang issued an edict: "Spring and Autumn" records: There are no wheat seedlings, which means that people's food is the most important thing.
The rains were uneven last autumn, and this year there was another drought, burning like fire. The famine years followed, and no preparations were made.
Because of my bad virtue, I made the three lights of the sun, moon, and stars angry, and I was shocked and heartbroken.
The sages and kings of the previous generation had far-reaching thoughts and advice, and although they averted disasters and disasters, they also acted like kings who opened the golden chamber to turn the wind and raise crops, thus avoiding disasters.
What about me now? It's just miserable.
Now I order two thousand stones to redress the injustice and release the prisoners who have committed minor crimes. I pray to the five mountains and four mountains, as well as the famous mountains that can stir up clouds and cause rain, hoping to get a good reward that will not cause happy rain all over the morning.
Everyone must be pious and solemn!


Chunk 8: 
original: 
三月甲寅，诏曰： 孔子曰： 刑罚不中，则人无所措手足。
今吏多不良，擅行喜怒，或案不以罪，迫胁无辜，致令自杀者，一岁且多于断狱，甚非为人父母之意也。
有司其议纠举之。
荆、豫诸郡兵讨破武陵溇中叛蛮。
夏五月辛亥，诏曰： 朕思迟直士，侧席异闻。其先至者，各以发愤吐懑，略闻子大夫之志矣，皆欲置于左右，顾问省纳。
建武诏书又曰，尧试臣以职，不直以言语笔札。
今外官多旷，并可以补任。 戊辰，太傅赵憙薨。
冬，始行月令迎气乐。
是岁，零陵献芝草。
有八黄龙见于泉陵。
西域假司马班超击疏勒，破之。
六年春二月辛卯，琅邪王京薨。
夏五月辛酉，赵王盱薨。
六月丙辰，太尉鲍昱薨。
辛未晦，日有食之。
translation: 
On the fifth day of March, Emperor Zhang issued an edict: Confucius said: If the punishment is not appropriate, the people will not know what to do.
At present, there are many bad officials, who act arbitrarily and domineeringly according to their own moods, handle cases without basing their crimes on charges, threaten to persecute innocent people, and more often than not commit suicide and are sentenced to death within a year. This is not at all what the king of parents is meant to do.
Relevant departments should take notice and make corrections.
The soldiers from Jing and Henan counties attacked and defeated the rebel barbarians in Wuling and Yuzhong.
On May 27th of the Xia Dynasty, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: I hope to get upright scholar-officials and respectfully listen to their opinions. Those who arrive first will express their anger and complain, and I will have a general understanding of their aspirations. I want to place them on my left and right as advisors to understand and adopt their opinions.
The edict from the Jianwu period also stated that when Yao tried his ministers on their posts, they were not only based on those who could speak and write.
At present, many official positions in other places are vacant and can be filled by them. In Wuchen, Taifu Zhao Xi passed away.
In winter, start to implement the moon order to welcome Qi music.
This year, Lingling contributed Zhicao.
Eight yellow dragons appeared in Quanling.
Xiling pretended to be Sima Banchao and defeated Shule.
In the spring of the sixth year of the first lunar month of Xinmao, Liu Jing, the king of Langyi, passed away.
On the 19th day of the fifth lunar month, King Liu Xu of Zhao passed away.
On June 15, Taiwei Bao Yu passed away.
On the 30th, dusk, solar eclipse.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
秋七月癸巳，以大司农邓彪为太尉。
七年春正月，沛王辅、济南王康、东平王苍、中山王焉、东海王政、琅邪王宇来朝。
夏六月甲寅，废皇太子庆为清河王，立皇子肇为皇太子。
己未，徙广平王羡为西平王。
秋八月，饮酎高庙，禘祭光武皇帝、孝明皇帝。
甲辰，诏曰： 《书》云： 祖考来假 ，明哲之祀。
予末小子，质又菲薄，仰惟先帝烝烝之情，前修禘祭，以尽孝敬。
朕得识昭穆之序，寄远祖之思。
今年大礼复举，加以先帝之坐，悲伤感怀。
乐以迎来，哀以送往，虽祭亡如在，而空虚不知所裁，庶或飨之。
岂亡克慎肃雍之臣，辟公之相，皆助朕之依依。
今赐公钱四十万，卿半之，及百官执事各有差。
九月甲戌，幸偃师，东涉卷津，至河内。下诏曰： 车驾行秋稼，观收获，因涉郡界。
translation: 
On the 22nd day of the seventh month in the autumn, Deng Biao, the chief minister, was appointed Taiwei.
In the first month of the spring of the seventh year, King Liu Fu of Pei, King Liu Kang of Jinan, King Liu Cang of Dongping, King Liu Yan of Zhongshan, King Liu Zheng of Donghai, and King Liu Yu of Langyi came to Beijing to pay homage.
On June 18th in the summer, the crown prince Liu Qing was deposed as the king of Qinghe, and the prince Liu Zhao was made the crown prince.
On the 23rd, King Liu Xian of Guangping was transferred to King Xiping.
In autumn and August, people drink wine and worship Emperor Guangwu and Emperor Xiaoming.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Emperor Zhang issued an edict: "Shangshu" said: "Zukao Laige" is a tribute to Mingzhi, which can bring about the arrival of the god of Zukao.
I am insignificant and have a meager temperament. I rely on the late emperor's sincerity and kindness, so I come to hold the Emperor's Sacrifice to express my filial piety.
I was able to understand the order of father and son Zhaomu, and express my memory for my distant ancestors.
This year the ceremony was held again, and a new seat of the late emperor was added, which was even more sad.
We welcome you with joy and send you away with sorrow. Although we are offering sacrifices to the deceased, we feel empty and uncertain. We only hope to enjoy this festival.
Is there no way to be cautious about Su Yong’s ministers? All the officials and princes came to assist in the sacrifice, which made me yearn for it endlessly.
Now the reward is 400,000 yuan in public money, 200,000 yuan in ministers, and 100 officials and deacons respectively.
On the tenth day of the ninth lunar month, Emperor Zhang arrived in Yanshi, crossed to Juanjin in the east, and arrived in Hanoi. He issued an edict: "I came out to see the autumn harvest and learned that the years were good and poor, so I set foot in the county boundary."


Chunk 10: 
original: 
皆精骑轻行，无它辎重。
不得辄修道桥，远离城郭，遣使逢迎，刺探起居，出入前后，以为烦扰。
动务省约，但患不能脱粟瓢饮耳。所过欲令贫弱有利，无违诏书。 遂览淇园。
己酉，进幸邺，劳飨魏郡守令已下，至于三老、门阑、走卒，赐钱各有差。
劳赐常山、赵国吏人，复元氏租赋三岁。
辛卯，车驾还宫。
诏天下系囚减死一等，勿笞，诣边戍；妻子自随，占著所在；父母同产欲相从者，恣听之；有不到者，皆以乏军兴论。
及犯殊死，一切募下蚕室；其女子宫。
系囚鬼薪、白粲已上，皆减本罪各一等，输司寇作。
亡命赎：死罪入缣二十匹，右趾至髡钳城旦舂十匹，完城旦至司寇三匹，吏人有罪未发觉，诏书到自告者，半入赎。
translation: 
They all ride lightly and don't have much luggage.
Do not repair roads and bridges, do not stay away from the city, send officials and people to cater to them, serve them daily, cheer in front and support them in front of them, and increase the nuisance.
All actions must be frugal. I just hope that I can take off the millet and drink from the gourd. Wherever I pass, I will benefit the poor and the weak. Don't go against what I say in this edict. So we visited Qi Garden.
On the 21st, we marched to Ye County. As for the consolation and rewards given by the governor of Wei County, the three elders, gatekeepers, and soldiers were all given varying amounts of money.
He gave condolences to the officials and people of Changshan and Zhao, and exempted the Yuan family from rent and taxes for three years.
On the 27th, Emperor Zhang returned to Luoyang.
The emperor ordered the prisoners to be punished with a reduced death penalty. Don't be beaten and sent to the border to guard the border; wives and children will voluntarily go with them and register with the local household registration. Parents, brothers and sisters who want to go with them should not be restricted; those who refuse to go will be punished as delaying the collection and allocation of military supplies.
Those who committed the crime of beheading were all punished by rotting in the Jamsil room, and women were punished by castration.
Those who were imprisoned by Guixin and Baican for more than three years' imprisonment would have their original crime reduced to one level and be punished with hard labor on the border.
The atonement of death: twenty pieces of steel are required for the crime of death, and ten pieces of steel are made from the time when the right foot is cut off to the city of Kunqi, and three pieces of steel are made from the day after the city is completed to the Sikou. The officials and the people are not aware of their guilt, and those who surrender after the edict is issued will receive half of the atonement.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
冬十月癸丑，西巡狩，幸长安。
丙辰，祠高庙，遂有事十一陵。
遣使者祠太上皇于历年，以中牢祠萧何、霍光。
进幸槐里。
岐山得铜器，形似酒樽，献之。
又获白鹿。
帝曰： 上无明天子，下无贤方伯。人之无良，想怨一方。
斯器亦曷为来哉？ 又幸长平，御池阳宫，东至高陵，造舟于泾而还。
每所到幸，辄会郡县吏人，劳赐作乐。
十一月，诏劳赐河东守、令、掾以下。
十二月丁亥，车驾还宫。
是岁，京师及郡国螟。
八年春正月壬辰，东平王苍薨。
三月辛卯，葬东平宪王，赐銮辂、龙旂。
夏六月，北匈奴大人率众款塞降。
translation: 
On the 19th day of the tenth month in winter, Emperor Zhang visited the west and arrived at Chang'an.
On the 22nd, I visited the high temple and offered sacrifices to the Eleven Tombs.
Envoys were sent to offer sacrifices to the Supreme Emperor in Ten Thousand Years, and pigs and sheep were sacrificed to Xiao He and Huo Guang.
The emperor arrived at Huaili.
Qishan obtained a bronze vessel in the shape of a wine vessel and dedicated it to the emperor.
Got another white deer.
Emperor Zhang said: There is no wise emperor above, and no virtuous local governor below. If a person does not do any good deeds, everyone will blame each other.
What are these noble artifacts used for? Arrive at Chenping again, visit Chiyang Palace, go to Gaoling in the east, connect the boat to a pontoon bridge, and return across the Jing River.
Everywhere he went, he would gather officials and people from counties and counties to give him gifts and have fun.
In November, the imperial edict issued a consolation reward to the governors, commanders, and cadres of Hedong.
In December of Dinghai, Emperor Zhang returned to Luoyang.
This year, the capital and prefectures were plagued by locusts.
On the twenty-ninth day of the first month of the eighth year of spring, Liu Cang, king of Dongping, passed away.
On March 29th, King Dongping Xian was buried and given a royal chariot and a dragon flag.
In June of Xia, the leader of the Northern Huns led his troops to surrender.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
冬十二月甲午，东巡狩，幸陈留、梁国、淮阳、颍阳。
戊申，车驾还宫。诏曰： 《五经》剖判，去圣弥远，章句遗辞，乖疑难正，恐先师微言将遂废绝，非所以重稽古，求道真也。
其令群儒选高才生，受学《左氏》、《穀梁春秋》、《古文尚书》、《毛诗》，以扶微学，广异义焉。
夏四月己卯，分东平国，封宪王苍子尚为任城王。
六月辛酉，沛王辅薨。
秋七月丁未，诏曰： 《律》云 惊者唯得榜、苔、立 。
又《令丙》，箠长短有数。
translation: 
On February 18, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: The king's eight policies are based on food. Therefore, in ancient times, we attached great importance to farming, devoted ourselves to farming, saved money sparingly, and prepared for famine years, so we would not go hungry even if we were in bad years.
Since the plague broke out in Luzhong, the grain production has been decreasing year after year. This is indeed because the officials have no sense of responsibility. The governor and Erqianshi do not worry about the people's food. The prefectures and counties are now ordered to recruit those who have no land and want to move to rich areas, and all will do so on their own initiative. When he arrives at the location, he will be given public land, hire servants, lend him grain, and lend him farm tools. He will not collect rent for five years and will not collect population tax for three years. If you want to return to your place of origin in the future, there is no prohibition. Emperor Zhang's edict said: "The analysis of the Five Classics is far from that of the saints. The chapters, sentences and words left behind are difficult to correct due to mistakes and difficulties. I am afraid that the great righteousness of the former teacher will be wasted and extinct. This does not pay attention to the examination of ancient teachings and the exploration of the true truth between heaven and earth."
Confucian scholars are now ordered to select talented students to teach "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu", "Gu Liang Chun Qiu", "Guwen Shangshu", and "Mao Shi" to rescue declining academics and promote novel principles.
This year, the capital and prefectures were plagued by locusts. In the first year of Yuanhe, Liu Yan, the king of Zhongshan, came to court, and the barbarians from outside the Rinan border offered rhinos and white pheasants. On the fifteenth day of the intercalary month, Liu Chang, the king of Jiyin, passed away. On the 24th of April in the summer, the Dongping Kingdom was divided, and Liu Cangzi and Liu Shang were granted the title of King of Rencheng.
On the seventh day of June, King Pei Liu Fu passed away.
On the 23rd day of the seventh lunar month in the autumn, Emperor Zhang issued an edict: "The Law" stipulates that the only way to ask questions is to strike, whip, or stand.
Also, "Ling Bing" stipulates that those who hit people have certain merits.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
自往者大狱已来，掠考多酷，钻钻之属，惨苦无极。
念其痛毒，怵然动心。
《书》曰 鞭作官刑 ，岂云若此？
宜及秋冬理狱，明为其禁。
八月甲子，太尉邓彪罢，大司农郑弘为太尉。
癸酉，诏曰： 朕道化不德，吏政失和，元元未谕，抵罪于下。
寇贼争心不息，边野邑屋不修。
永惟庶事，思稽厥衷，与凡百君子，共弘斯道。
中心悠悠，将何以寄？
其改建初九年为元和元年。
郡国中都官系囚减死一等，勿笞，诣边县；妻子自随，占著在所。
其犯殊死，一切募下蚕室；其女子宫。系囚鬼薪、白粲以上，皆减本罪一等，输司寇作。
亡命者赎，各有差。 丁酉，南巡狩，诏所经道上，郡县无得设储跱。
translation: 
Since the beginning of the Kao Prison, Lu Kao has been brutally tortured, including drilling, chiseling, and sawing, which is extremely cruel.
Thinking about its pain and poison makes me frightened and frightened.
"Shangshu" says that whipping is used as a punishment for judgment. Is this true?
Torture should be clearly prohibited when cases are tried in the fall and winter.
On August 11, the Taiwei Deng Biao was dismissed from his post and the chief minister Zheng Hong was appointed as the Taiwei.
On the 20th, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: My governance and education are not good enough, my officials are in disharmony, and my people are ignorant. I will pay for my sins.
The bandits are constantly fighting, and the villages in the countryside are not repaired.
I have thought about many things for a long time, hoping to examine their correct laws and promote them together with other gentlemen.
I have a long heart, what will I use to put it in?
Today, the ninth year of the Lunar New Year is changed to the first year of Yuanhe.
If the prisoner of the county is punished by one degree of death penalty, he will not be beaten, and he will be sent to the border county. If his wife voluntarily goes with him, he will be registered in the local household.
Anyone who commits the crime of beheading will be sent to the silkworm room to be tortured, and women to be castrated. Those who are detained as ghosts and above are Baican and above, will have their crimes reduced to one level, and will be sent to the frontiers to do hard labor.
Those who are on the run will atone for their sins with money and materials according to the severity of their crimes. Ding You, Emperor Zhang inspected the south, and issued an edict that no prefectures or counties should prepare in advance on the roads they passed.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
命司空自将徒支柱桥梁。
有遣使奉迎，探知起居，二千石当坐。
其赐鳏、寡、孤、独、不能自存者粟，人五斛。
九月乙未，东平王忠薨。
辛丑，幸章陵，祠旧宅园庙，见宗室故人，赏赐各有差。
冬十月己未，进幸江陵，诏庐江太守祠南岳，又诏长沙、零陵太守祠长沙定王、舂陵节侯、郁林府君。
还，幸宛。
十一月己丑，车驾还宫，赐从者各有差。
十二月壬子，诏曰： 《书》云： 父不慈，子不祗，兄不友，弟不恭，不相及也。
往者妖言大狱，所及广远，一人犯罪，禁至三属，莫得垂缨仕宦王朝。
如有贤才而没齿无用，朕甚怜之，非所谓与之更始也。
诸以前妖恶禁锢者，一皆蠲除之，以明弃咎之路，但不得在宿卫而已。
二年春正月乙酉，诏曰： 《令》云 人有产子者复，勿算三岁 。
今诸怀妊者，赐胎养谷人三斛，复其夫，勿算一岁，著以为令。 又诏三公曰： 方春生养，万物莩甲，宜助萌阳，以育时物。
translation: 
Order Sikong to bring his own staff to support the bridge.
Someone was sent to welcome him and visit his daily life, and he was punished with two thousand stones.
As a reward, five dendrobium chestnuts will be given to those who are widowed, widowed, alone, and have difficulty in living.
On September 12, Liu Zhong, King of Dongping, passed away.
On the 18th, Emperor Zhang went to Zhangling to offer sacrifices to the old Zhaiyuan Temple, meet with the old clan members, and receive various rewards.
On the seventh day of the tenth lunar month in winter, we marched to Jiangling and ordered the prefect of Lujiang to offer sacrifices to Nanyue in the temple. He also ordered the prefects of Changsha and Lingling to offer sacrifices to King Ding of Changsha, Marquis of Chungling Festival, and Lord Yulinfu.
Arrive at Wan when turning around.
On the seventh day of November, I returned to Luoyang. Reward the accompanying persons respectively.
On the first day of the twelfth lunar month, Emperor Zhang issued an edict: "Shangshu" says: If a father is not kind and his son is disrespectful, if an elder brother is not friendly and a younger brother is disrespectful, this means they are not close to each other!
In the past, the evil speech prison had a wide range of implications. If one person committed a crime, his father, mother, and wife would be punished, and he would not be able to be an official or serve in the dynasty.
Even if there are talents, they will not be ignored. I feel very sorry for them. This is not giving people a chance to get back on their feet.
Now, all those who were previously imprisoned due to evil will be lifted and given a way out, but they are not allowed to stay on night duty in the palace or serve as guards.
On the fifth day of the first lunar month in the spring of the second year, Emperor Zhang issued an edict: The "Order" stipulates that people who have children will be exempted from land tax and will be exempted from head tax for three years.
Those who are pregnant now will be rewarded with three dendrobium bushes per person who raised the fetus, and the husband will be exempted from taxes and poll tax for one year. This is clearly stipulated. He also ordered Sangong to say: "Spring is the time for fertility. When the seeds of all things germinate, we should help the sun to sprout so that they can develop at the right time."


Chunk 15: 
original: 
其令有司，罪非殊死，且勿案验，及吏人条书相告，不得听受，冀以息事宁人，敬奉天气。
立秋如故。
夫俗吏矫饰外貌，似是而非，揆之人事则悦耳，论之阴阳则伤化，朕甚餍之，甚苦之。
安静之吏，悃逼无华，日计不足，月计有余。
如襄城令刘方，吏人同声谓之不烦，虽未有它异，斯亦殆近之矣。
间敕二千石各尚宽明，而今富奸行赂于下，贪吏枉法于上，使有罪不论而无过被刑，甚大逆也。
夫以苛为察，以刻为明，以轻为德，以重为威，四者或兴，则下有怨心。
吾诏书数下，冠盖接道，而吏不加理，人或失职，其咎安在？
勉思旧令，称朕意焉。
二月甲寅，始用《四分历》。
诏曰： 今山川鬼神应典礼者，尚未咸秩。
translation: 
Now that I have an official, I will not put the case to trial unless the crime is beheading, and I will not accept the complaints from the officials and the people. I hope that the matter will be put to rest and people can enjoy the good times.
It will be handled as usual after the beginning of autumn.
The vulgar officials are deliberately superficial, specious, and it sounds pretty good based on human affairs. In terms of the yin and yang of heaven and earth, it harms nature. I am disgusted and very distressed.
A law-abiding official who is sincere and unpretentious. You can't tell him that he is good for a while, but he will become outstanding as time goes by.
For example, when Xiangcheng ordered Liu Fang, the officials and the people unanimously said that he was not afraid of trouble. Although there was nothing special about him, he had almost reached this level.
In the past, everyone was ordered to be lenient and lenient for two thousand stones, but now the treacherous rich bribe the people below, and the corrupt officials pervert the law. Let the guilty go unpunished and be punished without any fault, which is the greatest perverse behavior.
Taking harshness as a sign of discernment, taking harshness as a sign of understanding, taking lightness as a virtue, and taking heaviness as a prestige. If these four things may flourish, there will be resentment underneath.
I issued the edict several times, and officials came and went, but the administration was not better, and some even neglected their duties. Where did this disaster come from?
I hope that the old laws will be implemented well to suit my wishes.
On the fourth day of February, the four-element calendar began to be used.
Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: Today there is no order in the mountains and rivers where ghosts and gods should be sacrificed.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
其议增修群祀，以祈丰年。 丙辰，东巡狩。
己未，凤皇集肥城。
乙丑，帝耕于定陶。
诏曰： 三老，尊年也。孝悌，淑行也。
力田，勤劳也。
国家甚休之。
其赐帛人一匹，勉率农功。 使使者祠唐尧于成阳灵台。
辛未，幸太山，柴告岱宗。
有黄鹄三十从西南来，经祠坛上，东北过于宫屋，翱翔升降。
进幸奉高。
壬申，宗祀五帝于汶上明堂。
癸酉，告祠二祖、四宗，大会外内群臣。
丙子，诏曰： 朕巡狩岱宗，柴望山川，告祀明堂，以章先勋。
其二王之后，先圣之胤，东后蕃卫，伯父伯兄，仲叔季弟，幼子童孙，百僚从臣，宗室众子，要荒四裔，沙漠之北，葱领之西，冒耏之类，跋涉悬度，陵践阻绝，骏奔郊畤，咸来助祭。
祖宗功德，延及朕躬。
予一人空虚多疚，纂承尊明，盥洗享荐，惭愧祗栗。
translation: 
Now it is agreed to increase various sacrifices to pray for a good harvest. On the sixth day of the lunar month, Emperor Zhang made an inspection tour eastward.
On the ninth day of the Lunar New Year, Phoenix gathered in Feicheng.
On the 15th, Emperor Zhang plowed in Dingtao.
The edict said: The three elders are old, filial and virtuous.
Work hard in the fields and work hard.
The country revered them.
Now each of them is given a piece of silk to encourage their agricultural achievements. An envoy was sent to Chengyang Lingtai to worship Emperor Yao.
On the 21st, Emperor Zhang went to Mount Tai to burn firewood and pray to Daizong.
There were thirty yellow swans flying from the southwest, passing over the altar, and flying over the palace room on their way to the northeast, soaring up and down.
March to Fenggao.
On the 22nd, the Five Emperors were worshiped at Wenshang Mingtang.
On the 23rd, we held sacrifices to the second ancestor and the fourth sect of the temple, and gathered all the ministers inside and outside the temple.
On the 26th, the edict said: I inspected Daizong, burned firewood, looked at the mountains and rivers, and worshiped in the ancestral hall to highlight the achievements of the late emperor.
The descendants of the two kings and the sage Confucius, the Fan guards of the Eastern monarchs, the uncles and brothers of the princes with the same surname, the descendants of hundreds of officials, the sons of the clan, the four descendants of the wilderness, the people from the north of the desert, the west of the green hills, the people of the Western Regions, who have traveled through the mountains, experienced hardships and dangers, and galloped into the suburbs, all came to assist in the sacrifice.
The merits of my ancestors have been passed down to me.
I am empty and full of guilt. I inherit the honor and wash the sacrifices that the gods enjoy. I feel ashamed and fearful.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
《诗》不云乎： 君子如祉，乱庶遄已。
历数既从，灵耀著明，亦欲与士大夫同心自新。
其大赦天下。
诸犯罪不当得赦者，皆除之。
复博、奉高、嬴，无出今年田租、刍稿。 戊寅，进幸济南。
三月己丑，进幸鲁，祠东海恭王陵。
庚寅，祠孔子于阙里，及七十二弟子，赐褒成侯及诸孔男女帛。
壬辰，进幸东平，祠宪王陵。
甲午，遣使者祠定陶太后、恭王陵。
乙未，幸东阿，北登太行山，至天井关。
夏四月乙巳，客星入紫宫。
乙卯，车驾还宫。
庚辰，假于祖祢，告祠高庙。
五月戊申，诏曰： 乃者凤皇、黄龙、鸾鸟比集七郡，或一郡再见，及白乌、神雀、甘露屡臻。
祖宗旧事，或班恩施。
translation: 
Doesn't it say in "Book of Songs Xiaoya" that good fortune and virtuous people are rewarded, and turmoil can be quickly stopped?
The four-part calendar has been implemented, and the sun and moon are clearly visible. I also want to renew my virtues with the scholar-bureaucrats.
Amnesty to the world.
All crimes that do not deserve forgiveness will be forgiven.
Exemption from gambling, high-paying, and winning taxes, and no rent for this year's land or grass. On the 28th, the emperor arrived in Jinan.
On the tenth day of the third month, the emperor entered Lu and offered sacrifices to the tomb of Prince Gong in the East China Sea.
On the eleventh day, sacrifices were made to Confucius and his seventy-two disciples in the palace. Reward Chenghou and the men and women of the Confucius family with cloth and silk.
On the 13th, the emperor went to Dongping to pay homage to King Xian's tomb.
On the 15th, envoys were sent to pay homage to the tombs of Queen Mother Lingtao and Prince Gong.
On the 16th, the emperor arrived at Dong'a, climbed Taihang Mountain to the north, and reached Tianjing Pass.
In April Yisi of summer, a guest star entered the purple palace constellation.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, Emperor Zhang returned to Luoyang.
On the eleventh day, I went to the ancestral temple to worship Emperor Gao.
On May 30th, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: Recently, phoenixes, yellow dragons, and luan birds have gathered in seven counties. In some counties, they have appeared a second time, and white crows, divine sparrows, and nectar have repeatedly descended.
Some of the old rules of our ancestors are to enact favors.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
其赐天下吏爵，人三级；高年、鳏、寡、孤、独帛，人一匹。
《经》曰： 无侮鳏寡，惠此茕独。
加赐河南女子百户牛、酒，令天下大酺五日。
赐公卿已下钱、帛各有差；及洛阳人当酺者布，户一匹，城外三户共一匹。
赐博士员弟子见在太学者布，人三匹。
令郡国上明经者，口十万以上五人，不满十万三人。
改庐江为六安国，江陵复为南郡。
徙江陵王恭为六安王。
秋七月庚子，诏曰： 《春秋》于春每月书 王 者，重三正，慎三微也。
律十二月立春，不以报囚。
《月令》冬至之后，有顺阳助生之文，而无鞠狱断刑之政。
朕咨访儒雅，稽之典籍，以为王者生杀，宜顺时气。
其定律，无以十一月、十二月报囚。
translation: 
Today, the officials in the world are given three levels of nobility. Each of the elderly, widowed, widowed, lonely, and alone will be given a piece of silk.
The scriptures say: Do not bully the widowers and the lonely, but let them receive favor.
Now I will give a hundred women from Henan a cow and ten stones of wine, so that the whole world can drink and have fun for five days.
The rewards given to ministers and ministers vary in money and silk. People in Luoyang should be given cloth by Youfu, one piece for each household, and one piece for three households outside the city.
Doctoral disciples are now given three pieces of cloth by the Imperial College.
The people who order the counties to report the Ming Sutra include five people with a population of more than 100,000 and three people with a population of less than 100,000.
Lujiang was changed to Liu'an Kingdom, and Jiangling was restored to Nanjun.
Liu Gong, the king of Jiangling, was transferred to the throne of Liu'an.
On the 23rd day of the seventh month in autumn, the edict said: "Spring and Autumn" is written to the king every month in the spring, which emphasizes the three righteousnesses - the righteousness of the day, the righteousness of the earth, and the righteousness of people, and is cautious about the three subtleties - the beginning of the three righteousnesses, all things are subtle.
At the beginning of spring in December, the law is determined and no one is imprisoned.
After the winter solstice, there is a record in the "Moon Order" about Shunyang to help children, but there is no practice of interrogating prisoners and sentencing them.
I asked Gao Ming for advice and studied ancient books, and they all said that when a person decides whether to live or die, he should obey the seasons.
It is now stipulated that criminals will not be tried in November and December.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
九月壬辰，诏： 凤皇、黄龙所见亭部，无出二年租赋。
加赐男子爵，人二级；先见者帛二十匹，近者三匹，太守三十匹，令、长十五匹，丞、尉半之。
《诗》云： 虽无德与汝，式歌且舞。
它如赐爵故事。
丙申，征济南王康、中山王焉会烝祭。
冬十一月壬辰，日南至，初闭关梁。
三年春正月乙酉，诏曰： 盖君人者，视民如父母，有憯怛之忧，有忠和之教，匍匐之救。
其婴儿无父母亲属，及有子不能养食者，禀给如《律》。 丙申，北巡狩，济南王康、中山王焉、西平王羡、六发王恭、乐成王党、淮阳王昞、任城王尚、沛王定皆从。
辛丑，帝耕于怀。
二月壬寅，告常山、魏郡、清河、巨鹿、平原、东平郡太守、相曰： 朕惟巡狩之制，以宣声教，考同遐迩，解释怨结也。
今 四国无政，不用其良 ，驾言出游，欲亲知其剧易。
translation: 
On September 16th, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: Places where Phoenix and Huanglong appear will be exempted from paying rent for two years.
The men were given additional titles of two degrees each; twenty pieces of silk were given to the seer, three pieces to the nearest, thirty pieces to the prefect, fifteen pieces to the county magistrate and magistrate, and half to the prime ministers and lieutenants.
"The Book of Songs" says: Although there is no great virtue with you, it is still good to have some entertainment with singing and dancing.
Others are just like the precedent of conferring titles.
On the 20th, King Liu Kang of Jinan and King Liu Yan of Zhongshan were summoned to participate in the sacrifice.
November 17, the winter solstice, is the first day of seclusion in Guanliang, and business travel is not possible.
On the 11th day of the first lunar month in the third year of spring, Emperor Zhang issued an edict: As a king of a country, he should treat the common people like his parents, worry about them, teach them wisdom, benevolence, righteousness, loyalty, and harmony, and help them if they have funeral difficulties.
If the baby has no parents or relatives, or if there are children who cannot be fed, food will be provided according to the law. On the 22nd, Emperor Zhang visited the north, and King Liu Kang of Jinan, King Liu Yan of Zhongshan, King Liu Xian of Xiping, King Liu Gong of Lu'an, King Liu Dang of Lecheng, King Liu Ribing of Huaiyang, King Liu Shang of Rencheng, and King Liu Ding of Pei all followed him.
On the 27th, Emperor Zhang plowed in Huai County.
In the second month, Renyin said to the prefects of Changshan, Wei, Qinghe, Julu, and Dongping counties: I think that the system of inspections is used to promote enlightenment, inspect far and near, and explain grievances.
Today's political affairs in the four parties are not good because there are no people with both ability and political integrity. The emperor's inspection is to understand for himself the difficulties and ease.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
前祠园陵，遂望祀华、霍，东祡贷宗，为人祈福。
今将礼常山，遂徂北土，历魏郡，经平原，升践堤防，询访耆老，咸曰 往者汴门未作，深者成渊，浅则泥涂 。
追惟先帝勤人之德，厎绩远图，复禹弘业，圣亦滂流，至于海表。
不克堂构，朕甚惭焉。
《月令》，孟春善相丘陵土地所宜。
今肥田尚多，未有垦辟。
其悉以赋贫民，给与粮种，务尽地力，勿令游手。
所过县邑，听半入今年田租，以劝农夫之劳。
乙丑，敕侍御史、司空曰： 方春，所过无得有所伐杀。
车可以引避，引避之；騑马可辍解，辍解之。
《诗》云： 敦彼行苇，牛羊勿践履。
《礼》，人君伐一草木不时，谓之不孝。
俗知顺人，莫知顺天。
其明称朕意。
translation: 
In the past, people would offer sacrifices to the garden tombs, look up to Mount Huashan, and climb to the east of Daizong to burn firewood to offer sacrifices to heaven and pray for people.
Now I am going to pay my respects to Changshan, and then go to the north, pass through Wei County, pass through the plains, climb embankments, and interview the elders. They all said: In the past, the Bian Canal was not repaired, and the deep parts became a source of water, and the shallow parts became a muddy pond.
Recalling the late emperor's virtue of being diligent in human affairs, he set a long-term plan to restore Xia Yu's great cause of flood control, and his holy deeds spread overseas.
I feel very ashamed that I cannot inherit this great cause.
The "Moon Order" says that Meng Chun should be good at identifying crops suitable for planting on hilly land.
There are still many fertile fields today, but they have not been cultivated.
They should all be given to the poor and provided with grain and seeds. The land's potential must be maximized and people should not be allowed to idle around.
In the counties he passed through, he paid only half of the annual land rent as a reward for the farmers' hard work.
On the 21st, Emperor Zhang ordered his censors, Shi and Sikong, to say: It is spring now, and no one is allowed to cut down or kill anyone wherever they go.
If the car can be detoured to avoid it, then detour it; if the horse is not a horse and it can be stopped, then stop it.
The Book of Songs says: Cattle and sheep should not trample on the lush reeds by the roadside.
"Book of Rites" says: If a ruler cuts down every plant and tree at the wrong time, it is said to be unfilial.
Most people know how to follow human feelings, but not how to follow God's will.
I hope everyone understands and agrees with me.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
戊辰，进幸中山，遣使者祠北岳。出长城。
癸酉，还幸元氏，祠光武、显宗于县舍正堂；明日又祠显宗于姓生堂，皆奏乐。
三月丙子，诏高邑令祠光武于即位坛。
赐从行者各有差。夏四月丙寅，太尉郑弘免，大司农宋田为太尉。五月丙子，司空第五伦罢，太仆袁安为司空。
秋八月乙丑，幸安邑，观盐池。
九月，至自安邑。
冬十月，北海王基薨。
烧当羌叛，寇陇西。
是岁，西域长史班超击斩疏勒王。
章和元年春三月，护羌校尉傅育追击叛羌，战殁。
夏四月丙子，令郡国中都官系囚减死一等，诣金城戍。
六月戊辰，司徒桓虞免。
癸卯，司空袁安为司徒，光禄勋任隗为司空。
秋七月癸卯，齐王晃有罪，贬为芜湖侯。
壬子，淮阳王昞薨。
鲜卑击破北单于，斩之。
烧当羌寇金城，护羌校尉刘盱讨之，斩其渠帅。
translation: 
On the 24th, Emperor Zhang entered Zhongshan and sent envoys to worship Beiyue outside the Great Wall.
On the 29th, he returned to Yuanshi and worshiped Guangwu and Xianzong in the main hall of the county house. On the next day, he worshiped Xianzong in Shishengtang and played music.
On the third day of March, Gaoyi was ordered to offer sacrifices to Guangwu at the altar.
On the 23rd of April in the summer, Taiwei Zheng Hong was dismissed from his post and was appointed Da Si Nong Song You as Taiwei. On the third day of the fifth lunar month, Sikong Wu Lun resigned and appointed his servant Yuan An as Sikong.
On the 24th of August in autumn, Emperor Zhang went to Anyi to inspect the salt pond.
In September, he returned to Beijing from Anyi.
In the tenth month of winter, Liu Ji, the king of Beihai, passed away.
The Shaodang Qiang rebelled and invaded Longxi.
In this year, Banchao, the governor of the Western Regions, killed King Shule.
In the spring and March of the first year of Zhanghe, the Qiang-protecting captain Fu Yu pursued the rebel Qiang and was killed in battle.
On the ninth day of the fourth lunar month in the Xia Dynasty, the commander-in-chief of the county was ordered to reduce the death penalty of the prisoners by one level and send them to Jincheng for garrison.
On the second day of June, Situ Huanyu was dismissed from office.
In Guimao, Sikong Yuan An was appointed as Situ, and Guang Luxun appointed Wei as Sikong.
On the eighth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, King Liu Huang of Qi was found guilty and demoted to the title of Marquis of Wuhu.
On the 17th, King Liu Ribing of Huaiyang passed away.
Xianbei killed Bei Shanyu.
When the Shaodang Qiang invaded Jincheng, Liu Xu, the guard of the Qiang, attacked them and beheaded their leader.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
壬戌，诏曰： 朕闻明君之德，启迪鸿化，缉熙康乂，光照六幽，讫惟人面，靡不率俾，仁风翔于海表，威霆行乎鬼区。
然后敬恭明祀，膺五福之庆，获来仪之贶。
朕以不德，受祖宗弘烈。
乃者凤皇仍集，麒麟并臻，甘露宵降，嘉谷滋生，芝草之类，岁月不绝。朕夙夜祗畏上天，无以彰于先功。
今改元和四年为章和元年。
《秋令》： 是月养衰老，授几杖，行糜粥饮食。
其赐高年二人共布帛各一匹，以为醴酪。
死罪囚犯法在丙子赦前而后捕系者，皆减死，勿笞，诣金城戍。
八月癸酉，南巡狩。
壬午，遣使者祠昭灵后于小黄园。甲申，征任城王尚会睢阳。
戊子，幸梁。
己丑，遣使祠沛高原庙，丰枌榆社。
乙未，幸沛，祠献王陵，征会东海王政。
乙未晦，日有食之。
translation: 
On the 27th, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: I know that the virtue of a wise ruler lies in promoting education, harmony and stability, illuminating the universe and reaching everyone.
Then worship in the temple, enjoy the auspicious celebration of the five blessings, and receive the blessings of the phoenix.
With my humble virtues, I have inherited the great legacy of my ancestors.
Recently, phoenixes have gathered frequently, unicorns have arrived, rain has fallen at night, and valleys have grown thickly, with orchids and auspicious grasses growing in abundance year after year. I am in awe of God day and night, and have no regard for the merits of the late king.
Today, the fourth year of Yuanhe is changed to the first year of Zhanghe.
In autumn, I ordered the month to support the elderly, gave them a few sticks, and allowed them to eat rotten porridge.
Give the two seniors a piece of cloth each and fold sweets and milk into them.
Prisoners who committed capital crimes and were arrested before being pardoned on April 9th ​​will have their death penalty reduced and will not be flogged but will be sent to Jincheng for garrison.
On the eighth day of August, Emperor Zhang visited the south.
On the 17th, an envoy was sent to worship Zhaolinghou in Xiaohuang Garden. On the 19th, Liu Shang, the king of Rencheng, was summoned to meet with Suiyang.
On the 23rd, the emperor arrived in Liang.
On the 24th, envoys were sent to pay homage to Pei Gaoyuan Temple and Fengmu Fenyu Society.
On the 30th, the emperor came to Pei, offered sacrifices to the king's tomb, and summoned Liu Zheng, king of the East China Sea.
On the 30th, dusk, solar eclipse.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
九月庚子，幸彭城，东海王政、沛王定、任城王尚皆从。
辛亥，幸寿春。
壬子，诏郡国中都官系囚减死罪一等，诣金城戍；犯殊死者，一切募下蚕室；其女子宫；系囚鬼薪、白粲已上，减罪一等，输司寇作。
亡命者赎：死罪缣二十匹，右趾至髡钳城旦舂七匹，完城旦至司寇三匹；吏民犯罪未发觉，诏书到自告者，半入赎。
复封阜陵侯延为阜陵王。
己未，幸汝阴。
冬十月丙子，车驾还宫。
北匈奴屋兰储等率众降。
是岁，西域长史班超击莎车，大破之。
月氏国遣使献扶拔、师子。
二年春正月，济南王康、阜陵王延、中山王焉来朝。
二月壬辰，帝崩于章德前殿，年三十三。
遗诏无起寝庙，一如先帝法制。
translation: 
On the fifth day of September, the emperor arrived at Pengcheng, accompanied by Liu Zheng, King of Donghai, Liu Ding, King of Pei, and Liu Shang, King of Rencheng.
On the 16th, the emperor arrived in Shouchun.
On the 17th, the imperial edict ordered all the officials in the prefecture and state to reduce the death penalty to one level and send them to Jincheng for garrison; men who were guilty of beheading were to be sentenced to corruption and women to uterine punishment. Those who were imprisoned as ghosts and above were given a reduced sentence of one level, and were sent to the border areas to guard the border and work as hard labor.
The fugitive criminals will atone for their sins: twenty pieces of capital punishment will be tied, and seven pieces will be pounded by cutting off the right foot when they reach Kunxiang City, and three pieces will be pounded by Sikou once they finish the city; if the officials and the people commit crimes without being discovered, and the edict arrives and they surrender, half of them will be redeemed.
Then he named the Marquis of Fuling as the King of Fuling.
On the twenty-fourth, the emperor arrived in Ruyin.
On the twelfth day of the tenth month in winter, the emperor returned to Luoyang.
The Northern Xiongnu Wulan Chu and others led their troops to surrender.
This year, Shi Banchao, the commander of the Western Regions, attacked Shache and severely defeated him.
The Yuezhi Kingdom sent envoys to offer hornless lins and lions.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, Liu Kang, the king of Jinan, Liu Yan, the king of Fuling, and Liu Yan, the king of Zhongshan, came to Beijing to pay homage.
On February 30, the emperor passed away in the front hall of Zhangde at the age of thirty-three.
Those who cannot afford to sleep in temples according to the imperial edict will follow the system of the late emperor.


