Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 5, 3, 5, 5, 7, 12]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
世祖光武皇帝讳秀，字文叔，南阳蔡阳人，高祖九世之孙也，出自景帝生长沙定王发。
发生舂陵节侯买，买生郁林太守外，外生巨鹿都尉回，回生南顿令钦，钦生光武。
光武年九岁而孤，养于叔父良。
身长七尺三寸，美须眉，大口，隆准，日角。
性勤于稼穑，而兄伯升好侠养士，常非笑光武事田业，比之高祖兄仲。
王莽天凤中，乃之长安，受《尚书》，略通大义。
莽末，天下连岁灾蝗，寇盗锋起。
地皇三年，南阳荒饥，诸家宾客多为小盗。
光武避吏新野，因卖谷于宛。
宛人李通等以图谶说光武云： 刘氏复起，李氏为辅。 光武初不敢当，然独念兄伯升素结轻客，必举大事，且王莽败亡已兆，天下方乱，遂与定谋，于是乃市兵弩。
十月，与李通从弟轶等起于宛，时年二十八。
十一月，有星孛于张。
光武遂将宾客还舂陵。
时伯升已会众起兵。
初，诸家子弟恐惧，皆亡逃自匿，曰 伯升杀我 。
及见光武绛衣大冠，皆惊曰 谨厚者亦复为之 ，乃稍自安。
伯升于是招新市、平林兵，与其帅王凤、陈牧西击长聚。
光武初骑牛，杀新野尉乃得马。
进屠唐子乡，又杀湖阳尉。
军中分财物不均，众恚恨，欲反攻诸刘。
光武敛宗人所得物，悉以与之，众乃悦。
进拔棘阳，与王莽前队大夫甄阜、属正梁丘赐战于小长安，汉军大败，还保棘阳。
更始元年正月甲子朔，汉军复与甄阜、梁丘赐战于沘水西，大破之。斩阜、赐。
伯升又破王莽纳言将军严尤、秩宗将军陈茂于淯阳，进围宛城。
二月辛巳，立刘圣公为天子，以伯升为大司徒，光武为太常偏将军。
translation: 
The founder of the Eastern Han Dynasty, Emperor Guangwu Liu Xiu, whose courtesy name was Uncle Wen, was born in Caiyang, Nanyang. He was the ninth-generation grandson of Liu Bang, the great ancestor of the Han Dynasty. It comes from Liu Fa, the king of Shading who was born under Emperor Jing.
Liu gave birth to Liu Mai, the Marquis of Chung Ling Festival, Liu Mai gave birth to Liu Wai, the governor of Yulin, Liu Hui, the captain of Julu, was born to Liu Wai, Liu Qin was born to Liu Qin, the Nandun order, and Liu Qin was born to Guangwu.
Guangwu lost his father at the age of nine and was raised by his uncle Liu Liang.
He is seven feet three inches tall, has thick eyebrows, a wide mouth, a protruding nose, and a full forehead.
He is industrious by nature and enjoys farming. His elder brother Bo Sheng was fond of chivalry and raising people. He often ridiculed Guang Wu for only working in the fields and compared him with Liu Bang's second brother Liu Zhong.
It was not until the reign of Wang Mang and Tianfeng that Guangwu came to Chang'an to study "Shang Shu" as a disciple and roughly understand the gist of the book.
In Wang Mang's last years, there were successive locust plagues in the country, and bandits and bandits were raging.
In the third year of Emperor Di Huang's reign, there was a serious famine in Nanyang, and most of the family's guests went out to rob and steal.
In order to avoid the government, Guangwu fled to Xinye County and transported the harvested grain to Wancheng to sell.
Li Tong and others from Wan used prophecies and talismans to tell Guangwu: The Liu family has risen again, and the Li family will be the assistant. Guangwu didn't dare to act rashly at first, but then he thought that his brother Bo Sheng would do great things by making friends with diners. Moreover, Wang Mang's regime showed signs of decline and destruction, and the world was in turmoil, so he planned with the Li family and decided to raise an army, so he began to purchase various weapons.
In October, he and Li Tong's cousin Li Yi and others raised troops in Wancheng. He was 28 years old at the time.
In November, the comet appeared in Zhangsu in the south.
Guangwu then led his retainers back to Chongling.
At this time, Bo Sheng had gathered the people to raise troops.
At first, the children of each family were very frightened. They ran and hid, saying: "Bosheng wants to kill us!"
When they saw Guangwu in crimson robes and crowns, they were all surprised and said: "Uncle Wen, who is cautious and kind, has also raised an army!"
Only then did everyone settle down. Bo Sheng then recruited troops from Xinshi and Pinglin, and together with his leaders Wang Feng and Chen Mu, went west to attack Changju.
Guangwu first rode the bull, and then he was able to ride the horse after killing Xin Yewei.
He entered Tu Tangzi Township and killed the Huyang county captain.
The wealth obtained by the army was unevenly distributed, and everyone was angry. The soldiers wanted to counterattack the Liu family.
Guangwu then collected all the property from his clan and gave it all to the soldiers. Only then did everyone feel satisfied.
He then attacked and captured Jiyang, and fought with Wang Mang's former commander Zhen Fu and Zhengliangqiu in Xiaochang'an. As a result, the Han army was defeated and had to retreat to Jiyang.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Gengshi, the Han army fought against Zhenfu and Liangqiuci in the west of Xianshui River. They defeated the enemy and killed Zhenfu and Liangqiuci.
Bo Sheng defeated Wang Mang's general Yan You and Zhizong's general Chen Mao in Huoyang, and then besieged Wancheng.
On the first day of February, Liu Xuan was proclaimed emperor. Liu Xuan appointed Bo Sheng as the Great Situ and Guang Wu as the Taichang Commander.
summary:
Emperor Guangwu Liu Xiu, courtesy name Uncle Wen, was born in Caiyang, Nanyang, as the ninth-generation grandson of Liu Bang. He lost his father at age nine and was raised by his uncle Liu Liang. Described as tall with distinctive features, he was industrious and enjoyed farming, unlike his elder brother Bo Sheng who favored chivalry. During Wang Mang's reign, Liu Xiu studied the "Shang Shu" in Chang'an. When locust plagues and famine struck, Liu Xiu fled to Xinye County to avoid government persecution. After receiving prophecies about the Liu family's revival, he initially hesitated but eventually planned with the Li family to raise an army. In October, at age 28, he raised troops in Wancheng. When local families saw the cautious Liu Xiu had joined the uprising, they stopped hiding. After initial victories and defeats, the Han army captured several cities.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
会上谷大守耿况、渔阳太守彭宠各遣其将吴汉、寇恂等将突骑来助击王郎，更始亦遣尚书仆射谢躬讨郎，光武因大飨士卒，遂东围巨鹿。
王郎守将王饶坚守，月余不下。
郎遣将倪宏、刘奉率数万人救钜鹿，光武逆战于南䜌，斩首数千级。
四月，进围邯郸，连战破之。
五月甲辰，拔其城，诛王郎。
收文书，得吏人与郎交关谤毁者数千章。
光武不省，会诸将军烧之，曰： 令反侧子自安。
更始遣侍御史持节立光武为萧王，悉令罢兵诣行在所。
光武辞以河北未平，不就征。
自是始贰于更始。
是时，长安政乱，四方背叛。
梁王刘永擅命睢阳，公孙述称王巴蜀，李宪自立为淮南王，秦丰自号楚黎王，张步起琅邪，董宪起东海，延岑起汉中，田戎起夷陵，并置将帅，侵略郡县。
又别号诸贼铜马、大肜、高湖、重连、铁胫、大抢、尤来、上江、青犊、五校、檀乡、五幡、五楼、富平、获索等，各领部曲，众合数百万人，所在寇掠。
光武将击之，先遣吴汉北发十郡兵。
幽州牧苗曾不从，汉遂斩曾而发其众。
秋，光武击铜马于鄡，吴汉将突骑来会清阳。
贼数挑战，光武坚营自守；有出卤掠者，辄击取之，绝其粮道。
积月余日，贼食尽，夜遁去，追至馆陶，大破之。
受降未尽，而高湖、重连从东南来，与铜马余众合，光武复与大战于蒲阳，悉破降之，封其渠帅为列侯。
降者犹不自安，光武知其意，敕令各归营勒兵，乃自乘轻骑按行部陈。
降者更相语曰： 萧王推赤心置人腹中，安得不投死乎！ 由是皆服。
悉将降人分配诸将，众遂数十万，故关西号光武为 铜马帝 。
赤眉别帅与大肜、青犊十余万众在射犬，光武进击，大破之，众皆散走。
使吴汉、岑彭袭杀谢躬于邺。
青犊、赤眉贼人函谷关，攻更始。
光武乃遣邓禹率六裨将引兵而西，以更始、赤眉之乱。
时，更始使大司马朱鲔、舞阴王李轶等屯洛阳，光武亦令冯异守孟津以拒之。
建武元年春正月，平陵人方望立前孺子刘婴为天子，更始遣丞相李松击斩之。
光武北击尤来、大抢、五幡于元氏，追至右北平，连破之。
又战于顺水北，乘胜轻进，反为所败。
贼追急，短兵接，光武自投高岸，遇突骑王丰，下马授光武，光武抚其肩而上，顾笑谓耿弇曰： 几为虏嗤。 弇频射却贼，得免。
士卒死者数千人，散兵归保范阳。
军中不见光武，或云已殁，诸将不知所为。
吴汉曰： 卿曹努力！王兄子在南阳，何忧无主？ 众恐惧，数日乃定。
贼虽战胜，而素慑大威，客主不相知，夜遂引去。
大军复进至安交，与战，破之，斩首三千余级。
贼人渔阳，乃遣吴汉率耿弇、陈俊、马武等十二将军追战于潞东，及平谷，大破灭之。
朱鲔遣讨难将军苏茂攻温，冯异、寇恂与战，大破之，斩其将贾彊。
于是诸将议上尊号。
translation: 
At this time, it happened that Geng Kuang, the governor of Shanggu, and Peng Chong, the governor of Yuyang, respectively sent generals such as Wu Han and Kou Xun to lead elite cavalry to assist in attacking Wang Lang. Emperor Gengshi also sent Shangshu servant She Xie Gong to attack Wang Lang. Guangwu rewarded the soldiers well, and then marched eastward and surrounded Julu City.
Wang Lang's general Wang Rao defended the city, and Guangwu failed to capture it for more than a month.
Wang Lang also sent Ni Hong and Liu Feng to lead tens of thousands of troops to rescue Julu. Guangwu went to Nanxian to attack them head-on, killing thousands of enemy troops.
In April, he marched again and besieged Handan, winning consecutive battles.
On the day of Jiachen in the fifth month, Handan was captured and Wang Lang was killed.
The documents were seized and it was discovered that the Han military officials had colluded with Wang Lang to slander Guangwu's letter, which was called Qianzhang.
Without even looking at it, Guangwu summoned the generals to burn them, saying: "Let those who are tossing and turning calm down."
Emperor Gengshi sent his censor, Shi Zhifujie, to make Guangwu the King of Xiao, asking him to cease the war and return to the seat of Emperor Gengshi.
Guangwu declined, saying that Hebei had not yet been pacified and would not accept the order.
From then on, Guangwu began to have second thoughts about Emperor Gengshi.
At that time, the political situation in Chang'an was in chaos, and all parties rebelled against Gengshi Emperor.
Liu Yong, the king of Liang, acted exclusively in Suiyang County, Gongsun Shu proclaimed himself king in Bashu, Li Xian established himself as the king of Huainan, Qin Feng claimed to be the king of Chuli, Zhang Bu raised troops in Langxie, Dong Xian raised troops in Donghai, Yancen raised troops in Hanzhong, and Tian Rong raised troops in Yiling. They all appointed generals and invaded various counties.
There were also bandits from various places with nicknames such as Tongma, Daxi, Gaohu, Chonglian, Tieshan, Dajiao, Youlai, Shangjiang, Qingdu, Wuxiao, Tanxiang, Wufan, Wulou, Fuping, Huosuo, etc. Each led his troops, totaling millions of people, to plunder in their respective counties.
Guangwu was preparing to attack these thieves, so he first sent Wu Han to recruit soldiers and horses from ten counties to march north.
When Miao Zeng, the governor of Youzhou, refused to obey, Wu Han killed him and mobilized his troops.
In autumn, Guangwu attacked the Bronze Horse Army in the county. Wu Han led the elite cavalry to Qingyang County to join Guangwu.
The Bronze Horse Army repeatedly challenged them, but Guangwu stood firm in the barracks and refused to fight back. Once someone from the Bronze Horse Army went out to rob property, Guangwu sent people to intercept them and cut off the Bronze Horse Army's food and grass channels.
After more than a month of this, the Bronze Horse Army ran out of food and fled in the middle of the night. Guangwu led his army to pursue them to Guantao County and defeated the Bronze Horse Army.
Before all the Bronze Horse Army surrendered, Gaohu and Chonglian came from the southeast to join the remaining Bronze Horse Army. Guangwu then fought fiercely with them in Puyang, defeated the enemy forces across the board and made them surrender, and named their generals as marquises.
The surrendered generals still felt uneasy. Guangwu knew their doubts and asked them to return to their respective armies to manage the soldiers, and then he leisurely rode on horseback to inspect each battalion.
The surrendered people talked among themselves and said: King Xiao confides in us, how can we not retaliate with death? From then on they were all convinced.
Guangwu distributed all the surrendered troops to the generals, and his troops expanded to hundreds of thousands. The people in Kansai therefore called Guangwu the "Bronze Horse Emperor".
The generals of other branches of the Red Eyebrow Army and more than 100,000 horses from Daxu and Qingdu gathered at Shedog. Guangwu led his troops to attack and defeated the Red Eyebrow Army. All the troops fled.
Guangwu sent Wu Han and Cen Peng to attack Yecheng and killed Xie Gong.
Qingdu and Chimei troops entered Hangu Pass and attacked Emperor Gengshi.
Guangwu then sent Deng Yu to lead his six lieutenants to march westward to take advantage of the war between Emperor Gengshi and Chimei.
At this time, Emperor Gengshi sent Grand Sima Zhu Tuna, Wuyin King Li Yi and others to garrison in Luoyang. Guangwu also ordered Feng Yi to defend Mengjin against them.
In the first month of the spring of the first year of Jianwu, Fang Wang, a native of Pingling, made Liu Ying, a young boy of the former Han Dynasty, the emperor. Gengshi sent Prime Minister Li Song to attack him and kill Liu Ying.
Guangwu attacked Youlai, Daqiang, and Wuban Yuyuan in the north, and pursued them to Youbeiping, winning successive victories.
They also fought in the north along the river, taking advantage of the victory to easily advance, but were defeated.
The thieves followed closely, and Guangwu jumped to the high bank, where he met Wang Feng, a sudden rider. Wang Feng dismounted and gave his horse to Guangwu. Guangwu pressed Wang Feng's shoulders and mounted, turned around and smiled at Geng Yan and said: "I almost made the bandits laugh!"
Geng Yan shot repeatedly to drive back the enemy and avoid suffering. Thousands of soldiers died, and the remaining troops retreated to Fan Yang.
The troops could not see Guangwu. Some people said that Guangwu was dead, and the generals did not know what to do.
Wu Han said: "Everyone, please work hard. Brother Xiao Wang's son is in Nanyang. Why worry about having no owner!" Everyone was in panic and fear, and it took several days to calm down.
Although the thieves won the battle, they were always afraid of the glory of military power and did not understand each other's situation, so they led their troops away at night.
Guangwu marched to Anci again, fought with the enemy, defeated the enemy, and killed more than 3,000 people.
When the enemy retreated into Yuyang, Guangwu sent Wu Han commander Geng Yan, Chen Jun, Ma Wu and other twelve generals to pursue the enemy east of Lucheng and as far as Pinggu, where they destroyed Youlai and other tribes.
Zhu Tun sent the general Su Mao to attack Wencheng. Feng Yi and Kou Xun fought against him, defeated Su Mao's army and killed Su Mao's general Jia Qiang.
So the generals began to discuss the matter of Guangwu proclaiming himself emperor.
summary:
Wang Mang sent Grand Situ Wang Xun and Grand Sikong Wang Yi with a massive army. Liu Xiu advised unity against the enemy, though generals initially resisted. With only 8,000-9,000 troops in Kunyang, Liu Xiu organized defenses and gathered reinforcements. Wang Mang's forces surrounded Kunyang with overwhelming numbers, using siege towers and tunnels. Despite the enemy's strength, Liu Xiu led a daring counterattack with 3,000 elite troops, breaking the enemy formation and killing Wang Xun. A storm aided the Han forces, causing panic and massive casualties among Wang Mang's army. When Wang Lang proclaimed himself emperor in Handan, Liu Xiu faced numerous hardships, including food shortages and dangerous river crossings. After gathering forces, he captured Handan and killed Wang Lang. He burned documents revealing officials' collaboration with Wang Lang, saying this would calm those who were anxious. As chaos spread across the empire, Liu Xiu pacified various rebel groups including the Bronze Horse Army. He won over surrendered troops by personally inspecting their camps, earning their loyalty. His forces grew to hundreds of thousands.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
光武因复徇下颍阳。
会伯升为更始所害，光武自父城驰诣宛谢。
司徒官属迎吊光武，光武难交私语，深引过而已。
未尝自伐昆阳之功，又不敢为伯升服丧，饮食言笑如平常。
更始以是惭，拜光武为破虏大将军，封武信侯。
九月庚戌，三辅豪杰共诛王莽，传首诣宛。
更始将北都洛阳，以光武行司隶校尉，使前整修宫府。
于是置僚属，作文移，从事司察，一如旧章。
时三辅吏士东迎更始，见诸将过，皆冠帻，而服妇人衣，诸于绣镼，莫不笑之，或有畏而走者。
及见司隶僚属，皆欢喜不自胜。
老吏或垂涕曰： 不图今日复见汉官威仪！ 由是识者皆属心焉。
及更始至洛阳，乃遣光武以破虏将军行大司马事。
十月，持节北度河，镇慰州郡。
所到部县，辄见二千石、长吏、三老、官属，下至佐史，考察黜陟，如州牧行部事。
辄平遣囚徒，除王莽苛政，复汉官名。吏人喜悦，争持牛、酒迎劳。
进至邯郸，故赵缪王子林说光武曰： 赤眉今在河东，但决水灌之，百万之众可使为鱼。 光武不答，去之真定。
林于是乃诈以卜者王郎为成帝子子舆，十二月，立郎为天子，都邯郸，遂遣使者降下郡国。
二年正月，光武以王郎新盛，乃北徇蓟。
王郎移檄购光武十万户，而故广阳王子刘接起兵蓟中以应郎，城内扰乱，转相惊恐，言邯郸使者方到，二千石以下皆出迎。
translation: 
Guangwu took advantage of the situation and captured Yingyang County.
At this time, Liu Boxheng was killed by Liu Xuan, the Gengshi Emperor. Guangwu immediately rushed from his father city to Wancheng to apologize.
The officials of the Situ Mansion all came to express their condolences to Guangwu. Guangwu was not in a position to discuss anything with them in private, but he only blamed himself deeply.
He never boasted about his achievements in the Battle of Kunyang, nor did he dare to mourn for Bo Sheng. He ate, talked and laughed as naturally as usual.
Emperor Gengshi felt guilty about this, so he worshiped Guangwu as the general of Polu and named him Marquis of Wuxin.
On the third day of September, the three auxiliary heroes of Chang'an worked together to kill Wang Mang and sent his head to Wancheng.
Emperor Gengshi was about to go north to make his capital Luoyang, so he asked Guangwu to act as Sili Xiaowei and asked him to go to Luoyang first to repair the palace and government offices.
Guangwu then set up subordinate officials to draft official documents to conduct historical inspections and illegal affairs, and everything was handled according to the old system of the Han Dynasty.
At this time, the three auxiliary officials went east to welcome Emperor Gengshi. When they saw the generals passing by, they all wore civilian headscarves, women's clothes, large tie-ups and embroidered half-armor, and everyone laughed at them.
Some even run away in fear of disaster because of the ominous things they are convinced of. When they saw Guangwu's staff, they were all overjoyed.
Some old officials shed tears and said: "I didn't expect to see the majesty and grace of my Han officials again today!" From then on, all knowledgeable people turned to Guangwu.
When Gengshi arrived in Luoyang, he appointed Guangwu as General Polu to act as Grand Sima.
In October, Guangwu took the talisman and crossed the Yellow River to the north to calm the officials and people of the prefecture and county.
When arriving at a county, he would meet with the county governor, chief officials, three elders, officials, and officials, down to the assistant historian, to inspect promotion matters, just like a state herdsman inspecting the county to handle affairs.
He vindicated wrongful cases, released prisoners, got rid of Wang Mang's harsh rule, and restored the official title of the Han Dynasty. The officials and the people were happy, and they rushed to greet them with cattle and wine.
When they arrived at Handan, Liu Lin, the son of the late King Mu of Zhao, offered advice to Guangwu: The Red Eyebrow Army is now in the east of the river. As long as the Yellow River is opened to flood them, the Red Eyebrow Army of millions will become fish and shrimps in an instant. Guangwu didn't answer and left Handan for Zhending.
Zhao Lin asked Wang Lang, who was engaged in divination, to pretend to be Liu Ziyu, the son of the emperor. In December, he proclaimed Wang Lang the emperor, made Handan his capital, and sent envoys to persuade the counties to surrender.
In the first month of the second year of Gengshi, Guangwu went north to inspect Jidi because of Wang Lang's new rise.
Wang Lang issued a proclamation, promising to kill those who captured Guangwu and grant him the title of 100,000 households. Liu Jie, the son of the late King Liu Jia of Guangyang, raised an army in Jizhong to support the king. The city of Jicheng was disrupted and the people were frightened. It was also said that an envoy from Handan had just arrived, and officials with a weight of less than two thousand stones went out to welcome him.
summary:
After Bo Sheng was killed by Emperor Gengshi, Liu Xiu rushed to apologize without boasting of his achievements. Emperor Gengshi appointed him General Polu and Marquis of Wuxin. When sent to Luoyang, Liu Xiu restored Han dynasty administrative practices, winning popular support. He crossed the Yellow River to pacify northern regions, releasing prisoners and abolishing Wang Mang's harsh policies.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
今上无天子，海内淆乱，符瑞之应，昭然著闻，宜答天神，以塞群望。 光武于是命有司设坛场于鄗南千秋亭五成陌。
六月己未，即皇帝位。
燔燎告天，禋于六宗，望于群神。
其祝文曰： 皇天上帝，后土神祇，眷顾降命，属秀黎元，为人父母，秀不敢当。
群下百辟，不谋同辞，咸曰： 王莽篡位，秀发愤兴兵，破王寻、王邑于昆阳，诛王郎、铜马于河北，平定天下，海内蒙恩。
上当天地之心，下为元元所归。
谶记曰： 刘秀发兵捕不道，卯金修德为天子。
秀犹固辞，至于再，至于三。
群下佥曰： 皇天大命，不可稽留。
敢不敬承。 于是建元为建武，大赦天下，改鄗为高邑。
是月，赤眉立刘盆子为天子。
甲子，前将军邓禹击更始定国公王匡于安邑，大破之，斩其将刘均。
秋七月辛未，拜前将军邓禹为大司徒。
丁丑，以野王令王梁为大司空。
壬午，以大将军吴汉为大司马，偏将军景丹为骠骑大将军，大将军耿弇为建威大将军，偏将军盖延为虎牙大将军，偏将军朱祐为建义大将军，中坚将军杜茂为大将军。
时，宗室刘茂自号 厌新将军 ，率众降，封为中山王。
己亥，幸怀。遣耿弇率强弩将军陈俊军五社津，备荥阳以东。
使吴汉率朱祐及廷尉岑彭、执金吾贾复、扬化将军坚镡等十一将军围朱鲔于洛阳。
八月壬子，祭社稷。
癸丑，祠高祖、太宗、世宗于怀宫。
进幸河阳。更始廪丘王田立降。
九月，赤眉入长安，更始奔高陵。
辛未，诏曰： 更始破败，弃城逃走，妻子裸袒，流冗道路。
朕甚愍之。今封更始为淮阳王。吏人敢有贼害者，罪同大逆。
甲申，以前密令卓茂为太傅。
辛卯，朱鲔举城降。
冬十月癸丑，车驾入洛阳，幸南宫却非殿，遂定都焉。
translation: 
Now that there is no emperor above and chaos in the sea, Fu Rui's fulfillment must be clearly repaid to the gods in heaven to satisfy everyone's wishes. Guangwu then ordered the officials to build an altar for worshiping heaven in the Qianqiu Pavilion in the south of Haocheng.
On June 22, Guangwu ascended the throne as emperor.
Burn firewood to offer sacrifices to heaven, to the six sects of water, fire, thunder, wind, mountains and rivers, and to the gods of mountains, forests, rivers and valleys.
Zhu Wen said: The God of the Emperor and the God of the Later Earth care about the world and send talismans to entrust the common people to Liu Xiu to be the parents of the people. I, Liu Xiu, really do not dare to take this responsibility.
All the officials under his command unanimously said: Wang Mang usurped the throne, Liu Xiu got angry and raised an army, destroyed Wang Xun and Wang Yi in Kunyang; killed Wang Lang and Bronze Horse in Hebei, pacified the world, and received favor all over the world.
Above it is the heart of heaven and earth, below it is the heart-warming support of the people.
The prophecy says: Liu Xiu sent troops to capture the unruly people, and the Liu family who cultivated virtue with gold and gold became the emperor.
I still refused firmly, again and again, even three times.
All the subordinates said: The emperor's great destiny cannot be delayed.
How dare Liu Xiu not respect the destiny of heaven? So the reign name was established as Jianwu, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and Gaohuang County was changed to Gaoyi.
In the same month, Red Eyebrow made Liu Penzi the emperor.
On the 27th, former general Deng Yu attacked Prince Kuang of Gengshi Dingguo in Anyi, defeated Wang Kuang's army and killed his general Liu Jun.
On the fifth day of the seventh lunar month in Autumn, Deng Yu, the former general, was appointed Grand Situ.
On the 11th, Wang Liang, the wild king, was appointed as the chief minister.
On the 16th, the general Wu Han was appointed as the Grand Sima, the partial general Jing Dan was appointed as the general of Hussar, the general Geng Yan was appointed as the general of Jianwei, the partial general Gai Yan was appointed as the general of Huya, the partial general Zhu You was appointed as the general of Jianyi, and the backbone general Du Mao was appointed as the general.
At this time, Liu Mao, a relative of the royal family, proclaimed himself "General Wei Xin", led his troops to surrender, and was named King of Zhongshan.
On the third day of August, Guangwu arrived in Huai County and sent Geng Yan and Chen Jun, the strong crossbow general, to station in Wushejin and guard the east of Xingyang.
Wu Han was sent to lead Zhu You, Tingwei Cenpeng, Zhijinwu Jiafu, Yanghua general Jiandan and other eleven generals to besiege Zhu Tuna in Luoyang.
On August 16th, sacrifice to Sheji.
On August 17, sacrifices were made to Emperor Gaozu, Emperor Taizong and Emperor Shizong in Huai Palace.
Guangwu marched to Heyang, and Gengshi Linqiu King Tianli surrendered.
In September, the Red Eyebrow Army entered Chang'an and Gengshi fled to Gaoling.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, Guangwu issued an edict saying: Gengshi was ruined, they abandoned the city and fled, their wives, families and children were naked and scattered on the road. I pity them very much.
Now Gengshi has been granted the title of King of Huaiyin. Any officials or civilians who dare to kill him will be punished with treason.
On the 19th, when he was appointed Emperor Ping, Gao Mi ordered Zhuomao to be the Taifu.
On the 26th, Zhu Kun led the entire city of Luoyang to surrender.
On the eighteenth day of the tenth month in winter, Guangwu entered Luoyang. Fortunately, Nangong was not the palace, so he made Luoyang his capital.
summary:
After repeated requests from his generals, Liu Xiu ascended the throne on June 22, establishing the Jianwu reign period. He granted amnesty, appointed officials, and made Luoyang his capital. He enfeoffed meritorious officials as princes, warning them to remain cautious and respectful.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
彭宠为其苍头所杀，渔阳平。
大司马吴汉率建威大将军耿弇击富平、获索贼于平原，大破降之。
夏遣耿弇率二将军讨张步。
三月癸未，徙广阳王良为赵王，始就国。
平狄将军庞萌反，杀楚郡太守孙萌而东附董宪。
遣征南大将军岑彭率二将军伐田戎于津乡，大破之。
夏四月，旱，蝗。
河西大将军窦融始遣使贡献。
五月丙子，诏曰： 久旱伤麦，秋种未下，朕甚忧之。
将残吏未胜，狱多冤结，元元愁恨，感动天气乎？
其令中都官、三辅、郡、国出系囚，罪非犯殊死一切勿案，见徒免为庶人。
务进柔良，退贪酷，各正厥事焉。
六月，建义大将军朱祐拔黎丘，获秦丰；而庞荫、苏茂围桃城。
帝时幸蒙，因自将征之。
先理兵任城，乃进救桃城，大破萌等。
秋七月丁丑，幸沛，祠高原庙。
诏修复西京园陵。
进幸湖陵，征董宪。又幸蕃，遂攻董宪于昌虑，大破之。
八月己酉，进幸郯，留吴汉攻刘纡、董宪等，车驾转徇彭城、下邳。
吴汉拔郯，获刘纡；汉进围董宪、庞萌于朐。
冬十月，还，幸鲁，使大司空祠孔子。
耿弇等与张步战于临淄，大破之。
帝幸临淄，进幸剧。
张步斩苏茂以降，齐地平。
初起太学。
车驾还宫，幸太学，赐博士弟子各有差。
十一月壬寅，大司徒状湛免，尚书令侯霸为大司徒。
十二月，卢苏自称天子于九原。
西州大将军隗嚣遣子恂入侍。
交阯牧邓让率七郡太守遣使奉贡。
诏复济阳二年徭役。
是岁，野谷渐少，田亩益广焉。
translation: 
Peng Chong was killed by his slaves, and Yuyang was pacified.
Grand Sima Wu Han led Jianwei General Geng Yan to attack Fuping in the plains, captured the bandits, defeated the bandits and forced them to surrender.
He also sent Geng Yan to lead two generals to attack Zhang Bu.
On the eighth day of March, King Liu Liang of Guangyang was transferred to King Zhao, and Liu Liang began to enter the feudal state.
General Pang Meng of Pingdi rebelled, killed Sun Meng, the prefect of Chu County, and attached himself to Dong Xian in the east.
Cen Peng, the general who conquered the south, led two generals to attack Tian Rong in Jin Township and defeated Tian Rong.
In April of summer, there was drought and locust plague.
Dou Rong, the general of Hexi Province, began to send people to pay tribute.
On the second day of the fifth lunar month, Emperor Guangwu issued an edict saying: "The long-lasting drought has damaged wheat, and no autumn sowing has been done. I am very worried."
Could it be that the cruel officials are incompetent, there are many unjust cases in prison, and the people are miserable and resentful, which has offended the gods?
We now order Zhongdu officials, third assistants, and prefectures to release prisoners in custody. Except for those who must be executed, they will be exempted from investigation and punishment, and their imprisonment will be exempted from civilians.
Be sure to hire gentle people, remove greedy and cruel people, and keep all departments in order.
In June, General Zhu You of Jianyi captured Liqiu and captured Qin Feng alive; Pang Meng and Su Mao besieged Taocheng.
At this time, Emperor Guangwu happened to arrive in Meng County, so he personally led troops to conquer Pang Meng and Su Mao.
First reorganize the army in Rencheng, then rescue Taocheng, and defeat Pang Meng and others.
On the fourth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, Emperor Guangwu went to Peixian County to offer sacrifices to Gaodi Temple.
An imperial edict was issued to restore the imperial tombs in Chang'an.
He marched to Huling and conquered Dong Xian, and then to Fan County and attacked Dong Xian in Changli and won a great victory.
On the sixth day of August, Emperor Guangwu marched to Tan County, leaving Wu Han behind to attack Liu Yu, Dong Xian and others. Emperor Guangwu then inspected Pengcheng and Xiapi.
Wu Han captured Tan County and captured Liu Yu; Wu Han then marched to Qu County and besieged Dong Xian and Pang Meng.
In the tenth month of winter, Emperor Guangwu passed by Lu on his way back to Luoyang. The great Sikong was sent to worship Confucius.
Geng Yan and others fought with Zhang Bu in Linzi and defeated Zhang Bu.
Emperor Guangwu arrived in Linzi and marched to Ju County.
Zhang Bu killed Su Mao and surrendered, and Qi was pacified.
Taixue was established.
Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang, inspected the Imperial Academy, and rewarded his Ph.D. disciples respectively.
On the first day of November, Grand Situ Fu Zhan was dismissed from his post and appointed Shangshu Ling Hou Ba as Grand Situ.
In December, Lu Fang proclaimed himself emperor in Jiuyuan.
General Kai Xiao of Xizhou sent his son Kai Xun to the palace to guard Emperor Guangwu.
Jiaozhi Mu Dengrang led the prefects of the seven counties to send people to Beijing to pay tribute.
The imperial edict exempted Jiyang County from corvee service for two years.
This year, the number of wild grains gradually decreased and more and more fields were cultivated.
summary:
The Red Eyebrow Army captured Chang'an and looted Guanzhong. Liu Xiu personally led campaigns against various rebels, defeating the Red Eyebrows and recovering the imperial seal. He continued military campaigns against Liu Yong, Dong Xian, and others while implementing administrative reforms, including releasing prisoners during drought and restoring Han dynasty institutions. He established the Imperial Academy and promoted agriculture as wild grains gradually decreased and cultivated fields increased.

