Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 2]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
蒙恬者，其先齐人也。
恬大父蒙骜，自齐事秦昭王，官至上卿。
秦庄襄王元年，蒙骜为秦将，伐韩，取成皋、荥阳，作置三川郡。
二年，蒙骜攻赵，取三十七城。
始皇三年，蒙骜攻韩，取十三城。
五年，蒙骜攻魏，取二十城，作置东郡。
始皇七年，蒙骜卒。
骜子曰武，武子曰恬。
恬尝书狱典文学。
始皇二十三年，蒙武为秦裨将军，与王翦攻楚，大破之，杀项燕。
二十四年，蒙武攻楚，虏楚王。
蒙恬弟毅。
始皇二十六年，蒙恬因家世得为秦将，攻齐，大破之，拜为内史。
秦已并天下，乃使蒙恬将三十万众北逐戎狄，收河南。
筑长城，因地形，用制险塞，起临洮，至辽东，延袤万馀里。
於是渡河，据阳山，逶蛇而北。
暴师於外十馀年，居上郡。
是时蒙恬威振匈奴。
始皇甚尊宠蒙氏，信任贤之。
而亲近蒙毅，位至上卿，出则参乘，入则御前。
恬任外事而毅常为内谋，名为忠信，故虽诸将相莫敢与之争焉。
赵高者，诸赵疏远属也。
赵高昆弟数人，皆生隐宫，其母被刑僇，世世卑贱。
秦王闻高彊力，通於狱法，举以为中车府令。
高既私事公子胡亥，喻之决狱。
高有大罪，秦王令蒙毅法治之。
毅不敢阿法，当高罪死，除其宦籍。
帝以高之敦於事也，赦之，复其官爵。
始皇欲游天下，道九原，直抵甘泉，乃使蒙恬通道，自九原抵甘泉，巉山堙谷，千八百里。
translation: 
Meng Tian, ​​his ancestor was from Qi State.
Meng Tian's grandfather, Meng Ao, came to Qin from Qi to serve King Qin Zhao, and became a high official.
In the first year of King Zhuangxiang of Qin, Meng Ao served as the general of the Qin State, attacked South Korea, occupied Chenggao and Xingyang, and established Sanchuan County.
In the second year of King Zhuang Xiang's reign, Meng Ao attacked Zhao and captured thirty-seven cities.
In the third year of Qin Shihuang's reign, Meng Ao attacked South Korea and captured thirteen cities.
In the fifth year of the First Emperor's reign, Meng Ao attacked Wei, captured twenty cities, and established Dongjun.
In the seventh year of the First Emperor's reign, Meng Ao passed away.
Meng Ao's son was named Meng Wu, and Meng Wu's son was named Meng Tian.
Meng Tian once worked in prison litigation records and was responsible for managing relevant documents and prison litigation files.
In the 23rd year of the First Emperor of Qin, Meng Wu served as a general of the Qin State. He and Wang Jian attacked the Chu State, defeated the Chu army and killed Xiang Yan.
In the twenty-fourth year of the First Emperor's reign, Meng Wu attacked Chu State again and captured the King of Chu.
Meng Tian's younger brother is called Meng Yi.
In the twenty-sixth year of the First Emperor of Qin, Meng Tian became a general of the Qin State because of his background. He led his troops to attack the Qi State and defeated the Qi army. He was given the official position of internal history.
After the Qin State annexed the world, it sent Meng Tian to lead a huge army of 300,000 people to drive away the Rong and Di to the north and recover the land south of the Yellow River.
The Great Wall was built, taking advantage of the geographical situation, and setting up fortresses, stretching from Lintao in the west to Liaodong in the east, stretching for more than 10,000 miles.
So he crossed the Yellow River, occupied Yangshan Mountain, and extended zigzag to the north.
In the scorching sun, frost, wind and rain, I have been stationed in Shangjun for more than ten years.
At this time, Meng Tian's reputation shocked the Xiongnu.
Qin Shihuang particularly respected and admired the Meng family, trusting and appreciating their talents.
Therefore, he became close to Meng Yi and became the highest official. When he went out, he would ride in the same carriage with the First Emperor, and when he returned to the court, he would serve the king.
Meng Tian was responsible for military responsibilities outside the country, while Meng Yi often made suggestions in the court and was known as a loyal minister. Therefore, even other generals did not dare to compete with them for favor.
Zhao Gao is an estranged relative of King Zhao's family.
The Zhao Gao brothers were all castrated at birth and became eunuchs. His mother was also punished for breaking the law, so her status was low for generations.
When the King of Qin heard that Zhao Gao was very capable and proficient in criminal and prison laws, he promoted him to the post of Zhongche Mansion Order.
Zhao Gao then served his son Hu Hai privately and taught him how to decide lawsuits.
Zhao Gao committed a serious crime, and King Qin asked Meng Yi to punish him in accordance with the law.
Meng Yi did not dare to bend the law. According to the law, he should be sentenced to death and deprived of his official status.
The First Emperor pardoned Zhao Gao because of his diligence and hard work. His original official position was restored.
The First Emperor planned to tour the world, passing through Jiuyuan County and going directly to Ganquan Palace. He sent Meng Tian to open a road for him, from Jiuyuan to Ganquan, opening up the mountains and filling in the deep valleys, a total length of 1,800 miles.

summary:
summary line 0: Meng Tian, a Qin general, hailed from Qi through his grandfather Meng Ao, who served Qin under King Zhao and later as a general under King Zhuangxiang and the First Emperor, conquering territories in Han, Zhao, and Wei before his death in 7 BCE. Meng Tian’s father, Meng Wu, also a general, defeated Chu alongside Wang Jian. Meng Tian began as a legal clerk, became a general in 26 BCE, and led 300,000 troops to expel northern nomads, reclaim land south of the Yellow River, and construct the Great Wall from Lintao to Liaodong. He garrisoned Shangjun for over a decade, intimidating the Xiongnu. His brother Meng Yi served as a trusted advisor to the First Emperor.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
道未就。
始皇三十七年冬，行出游会稽，并海上，北走琅邪。
道病，使蒙毅还祷山川，未反。
始皇至沙丘崩，祕之，群臣莫知。
是时丞相李斯、公子胡亥、中车府令赵高常从。
高雅得幸於胡亥，欲立之，又怨蒙毅法治之而不为己也。
因有贼心，乃与丞相李斯、公子胡亥阴谋，立胡亥为太子。
太子已立，遣使者以罪赐公子扶苏、蒙恬死。
扶苏已死，蒙恬疑而复请之。
使者以蒙恬属吏，更置。
胡亥以李斯舍人为护军。
使者还报，胡亥已闻扶苏死，即欲释蒙恬。
赵高恐蒙氏复贵而用事，怨之。
毅还至，赵高因为胡亥忠计，欲以灭蒙氏，乃言曰： 臣闻先帝欲举贤立太子久矣，而毅谏曰 不可 。
若知贤而俞弗立，则是不忠而惑主也。
以臣愚意，不若诛之， 胡亥听而系蒙毅於代。
前已囚蒙恬於阳周。
丧至咸阳，已葬，太子立为二世皇帝，而赵高亲近，日夜毁恶蒙氏，求其罪过，举劾之。
子婴进谏曰： 臣闻故赵王迁杀其良臣李牧而用颜聚，燕王喜阴用荆轲之谋而倍秦之约，齐王建杀其故世忠臣而用后胜之议。
此三君者，皆各以变古者失其国而殃及其身。
今蒙氏，秦之大臣谋士也，而主欲一旦弃去之，臣窃以为不可。臣闻轻虑者不可以治国，独智者不可以存君。
诛杀忠臣而立无节行之人，是内使群臣不相信而外使斗士之意离也，臣窃以为不可。
胡亥不听。
而遣御史曲宫乘传之代，令蒙毅曰： 先主欲立太子而卿难之。今丞相以卿为不忠，罪及其宗。朕不忍，乃赐卿死，亦甚幸矣。
translation: 
However, the passage was not completed.
In the winter of the thirty-seventh year of the First Emperor's reign, the royal chariot went out on a tour of Kuaiji, leaning on the sea, heading north to Langye.
He got seriously ill halfway through, so Meng Yi turned back to pray to the gods of mountains and rivers.
Before Meng Yi could return, the First Emperor walked to the sand dunes and died. The news of the death of the First Emperor was blocked, and none of the civil and military officials knew about it.
At this time, Prime Minister Li Si, Prince Hu Hai, and Zhao Gao, the magistrate of CRRC, often served Qin Shihuang.
Zhao Gao usually received Hu Hai's favor and planned to appoint Hu Hai to inherit the throne. However, he resented Meng Yi for punishing him according to the law instead of protecting him, so he wanted to kill him.
He secretly planned with Prime Minister Li Si and Prince Hu Hai to make Hu Hai the crown prince.
After the crown prince was established, he sent envoys to fabricate charges and prepare the death penalty for Prince Fusu and Meng Tian.
After Fusu committed suicide, Mengtian became suspicious and asked for an appeal.
The envoy handed Meng Tian over to the officials in charge, and sent someone else to take over his duties.
Hu Hai used Li Si's retainers as military guards.
When the envoy came back to report, Hu Hai had heard the news of Fusu's death and immediately planned to release Meng Tian.
Zhao Gao was afraid that the Meng family would become powerful again and resented them.
Meng Yi returned after praying to the gods of the mountains and rivers. Zhao Gao took the opportunity to express his loyalty to Hu Hai and wanted to eradicate the Meng brothers, so he said to Hu Hai: I heard that the late emperor selected talents and made you the crown prince a long time ago, but Meng Yi tried to dissuade him and said: No.
If he knows that you are wise and capable and delays your registration for a long time, then he is being unfaithful and deceiving the late Emperor.
In my ignorant opinion, it is better to kill him. Hu Hai obeyed Zhao Gao's words and imprisoned Meng Yi in Daijun.
Before that, Meng Tian had been imprisoned in Yang Zhou.
After Qin Shihuang's hearse returned to Xianyang and was buried, the prince ascended the throne and became the second emperor. Zhao Gao gained the most favor and slandered the Meng family day and night, collecting their crimes, reporting and impeaching them.
Ziying advised: I heard that in the past, King Zhao Qian killed his wise minister Li Mu and appointed Yan Ju, King Yan secretly adopted Jing Ke's strategy and betrayed Qin's alliance, and King Jian of Qi killed his loyal ministers from the previous generation and adopted the strategy of later victory.
These three kings each lost their country and brought great disaster to themselves because of changing the old rules.
Now the Meng brothers are ministers and counselors of the Qin State, and the monarch intends to abandon them all at once. I think it is not allowed. I have heard that people who think about problems hastily cannot govern the country, and people who are arbitrary and self-righteous cannot protect the monarch.
Killing loyal ministers and appointing those without moral integrity will make the ministers unable to trust each other internally and weaken the fighting spirit of the soldiers externally. I think it is not allowed.
Hu Hai couldn't listen to Ziying's advice.
However, he sent Yushi Qugong to take a post to Dai County and ordered Meng Yi to say: "First of all, you wanted to appoint a prince, but you blocked it. Now the prime minister thinks that you are disloyal and your crime has implicated your family. I can't bear it, so I will grant you suicide. You are very lucky."

summary:
summary line 1: Zhao Gao, a eunuch of Zhao royal descent, rose to favor due to legal expertise, teaching Prince Hu Hai. When Zhao Gao committed a serious crime, Meng Yi sentenced him to death, but the First Emperor pardoned him. During the First Emperor’s fatal illness in 37 BCE, Meng Yi was sent to pray; after the emperor’s death, Zhao Gao conspired with Li Si and Hu Hai to install Hu Hai as crown prince, fabricating charges against Fusu and Meng Tian. Fusu committed suicide; Meng Tian was imprisoned. Zhao Gao, fearing the Meng family’s resurgence, falsely accused Meng Yi of opposing Hu Hai’s appointment, leading to his imprisonment in Dai. After Hu Hai became the Second Emperor, Zhao Gao slandered the Mengs daily. Ziying advised against killing them, warning of past disasters from killing loyal ministers, but Hu Hai ignored him.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
卿其图之！
毅对曰： 以臣不能得先主之意，则臣少宦，顺幸没世。可谓知意矣。
以臣不知太子之能，则太子独从，周旋天下，去诸公子绝远，臣无所疑矣。
夫先主之举用太子，数年之积也，臣乃何言之敢谏，何虑之敢谋！
非敢饰辞以避死也，为羞累先主之名，原大夫为虑焉，使臣得死情实。
且夫顺成全者，道之所贵也；刑杀者，道之所卒也。
昔者秦穆公杀三良而死，罪百里奚而非其罪也，故立号曰 缪 。
昭襄王杀武安君白起。楚平王杀伍奢。
吴王夫差杀伍子胥。
此四君者，皆为大失，而天下非之，以其君为不明，以是籍於诸侯。
故曰 用道治者不杀无罪，而罚不加於无辜 。
唯大夫留心！
使者知胡亥之意，不听蒙毅之言，遂杀之。
二世又遣使者之阳周，令蒙恬曰： 君之过多矣，而卿弟毅有大罪，法及内史。
恬曰： 自吾先人，及至子孙，积功信於秦三世矣。
今臣将兵三十馀万，身虽囚系，其势足以倍畔，然自知必死而守义者，不敢辱先人之教，以不忘先主也。
昔周成王初立，未离襁褓，周公旦负王以朝，卒定天下。
及成王有病甚殆，公旦自揃其爪以沈於河，曰： 王未有识，是旦执事。有罪殃，旦受其不祥。
乃书而藏之记府，可谓信矣。
及王能治国，有贼臣言： 周公旦欲为乱久矣，王若不备，必有大事。
王乃大怒，周公旦走而奔於楚。
成王观於记府，得周公旦沈书，乃流涕曰： 孰谓周公旦欲为乱乎！
杀言之者而反周公旦。
故周书曰 必参而伍之 。
今恬之宗，世无二心，而事卒如此，是必孽臣逆乱，内陵之道也。
夫成王失而复振则卒昌；桀杀关龙逢，纣杀王子比干而不悔，身死则国亡。
臣故曰过可振而谏可觉也。察於参伍，上圣之法也。
凡臣之言，非以求免於咎也，将以谏而死，原陛下为万民思从道也。
使者曰： 臣受诏行法於将军，不敢以将军言闻於上也。
蒙恬喟然太息曰： 我何罪於天，无过而死乎？
良久，徐曰： 恬罪固当死矣。
translation: 
Think about it again and again!
Meng Yi replied: If you think that I cannot win the favor of the late Lord, then by serving as an official and a eunuch when I was young, I was able to gain favor until the late Lord passed away. It can be said that I was able to comply with the will of the late Lord.
If you think that I don't understand the prince's talents, then only the prince can accompany the late lord and travel around the world. Compared with other princes, there is a huge difference. I have no doubts.
The First Master's appointment of the prince was a result of many years of careful consideration. What else can I dare to say and what strategies can I dare to devise?
This is not an excuse for me to avoid the death penalty. I am just afraid that I will be implicated and dishonor the reputation of my late lord. I hope the doctor will seriously consider this and let me die as a result of the crime I deserve.
Moreover, the fulfillment of laws and regulations is what morality advocates; severe punishment and killing are not tolerated by morality.
In the past, Duke Mu of Qin killed Sanliang of the Che family and buried him, and sentenced Baili Xi to an undeserved crime. Therefore, he was given the title of "Miao" after his death.
King Zhaoxiang killed Bai Qi, Lord Wu'an, and King Ping of Chu killed Wu She.
King Wu Fu Chai killed Wu Zixu.
These four kings all made serious mistakes and were criticized by people all over the world, thinking that their kings were unwise. Therefore, he had a bad reputation among the princely states.
Therefore, it is said: Those who govern the country with morality will not kill innocent subjects, and punishment will not be imposed on innocent people.
I hope the doctor will seriously consider it!
The envoy knew Hu Hai's intention and refused to listen to Meng Yi's complaint, so he killed him.
The second emperor sent an envoy to Yang Zhou again and ordered Meng Tian to say: "You have committed too many sins, and your brother Meng Yi has committed a serious crime and will implicate you according to the law."
Meng Tian said: From my ancestors to their descendants, it has been three generations since I accumulated great achievements and established prestige for the Qin State.
Now I lead more than 300,000 troops. Even though I am imprisoned, I am powerful enough to rebel. However, I knew that I would definitely die, but I persisted in my integrity. I did not dare to insult the teachings of my ancestors, and I did not dare to forget the grace of my late lord.
Once upon a time, King Cheng of Zhou had just ascended the throne and could not completely break away from the child's sling and cloth bag. Duke Ji Dan of Zhou carried King Cheng on his back to accept the audience of the ministers, and finally brought peace to the world.
When King Cheng's condition became serious and dangerous, Gongdan cut off his own nails and sank them into the Yellow River, praying and saying: "The king is young and ignorant. This is because I am in power. If there is any fault or disaster, I should bear the punishment."
Just write down these prayers and store them in the archives. This can be said to be very honest.
When King Cheng was able to govern the country in person, some treacherous ministers spread rumors: Duke Zhou had been planning to cause rebellion for a long time. If the king was not on guard, something big would happen.
When King Cheng heard this, he became furious and Duke Zhou fled to Chu.
King Cheng went to the archives to review the files and found Zhou Gongdan's prayer book. He shed tears and said: Who said Zhou Gongdan wanted to cause chaos!
Kill the minister who spread the rumors and caused trouble, and invite Duke Zhou to return.
Therefore, the "Book of Zhou" says: We must inquire from multiple parties and review repeatedly.
Now our Meng clan has had no two minds from generation to generation, but things ended up like this. This must be because the ministers who planned the rebellion rebelled and deceived the emperor.
King Zhou Cheng made mistakes but was able to correct his mistakes and finally made the Zhou Dynasty prosperous; Xia Jie killed Guan Longfeng, and Shang Zhou killed Prince Bigan without regrets, and finally died.
Therefore, I say that if you make mistakes, you can correct them and cheer up. If you listen to others' advice, you can be aware of them and be vigilant. These are the principles for a sage king to govern his country.
In general, the words I say are not to evade responsibility, but to die with loyal advice. I hope that Your Majesty will thoughtfully find the correct path to follow for the people of Li.
The envoy said: I accepted the order to impose punishment on the general, but I dare not report the general's words to the emperor.
Meng Tian sighed heavily and said: What crime have I committed against God that I should be executed for no fault of my own?
After a long time, he slowly said: My sin should have been punished by death.

summary:
summary line 2: Meng Yi was ordered to commit suicide; he defended his loyalty and criticized unjust executions, citing historical examples, but was killed. Meng Tian, ordered to die, declared his innocence and loyalty, recounting the Duke of Zhou’s story to urge the emperor to reconsider. The envoy refused to relay his words. Meng Tian lamented his sin of cutting earth’s veins while building the Great Wall and poisoned himself. Sima Qian criticized Meng Tian for failing to counsel the First Emperor to aid the people after conquests, instead building the Great Wall, which led to his and his brother’s deaths.

