Summary uses chunk [0, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
伏湛字惠公，琅邪东武人也。
九世祖胜，字子贱，所谓济南伏生者也。
湛高祖父孺，武帝时，客授东武，因家焉。
父理，为当世名儒，以《诗》授成帝，为高密太傅，别自名学。
湛性孝友，少传父业，教授数百人。
成帝时，以父任为博士弟子。
五迁，至王莽时为绣衣执法，使督大奸，迁后队属正。
更始立，以为平原太守。
时仓卒兵起，天下惊扰，而湛独晏然，教授不废。
谓妻子曰： 夫一谷不登，国君彻膳；今民皆饥，奈何独饱？
乃共食粗粝，悉分奉禄以赈乡里，来客者百余家。
时门下督素有气力，谋欲为湛起兵，湛恶其惑众，即收斩之，徇首城郭，以示百姓，于是吏人信向，郡向以安。
平原一境，湛所全也。
光武即位，知湛名儒旧臣，欲信干任内职，征拜尚书，使典定旧制。
时，大司徒邓禹西征关中，帝以湛才任宰相，拜为司直，行大司徒事。
车驾每出征伐，常留镇守，总摄群司。
建武三年，遂代邓禹为大司徒，封阳都侯。
时，彭宠反于渔阳，帝欲自征之，湛上疏谏曰： 臣闻文王受命而征伐五国，必先询之同姓，然后谋于群臣，加占蓍龟，以定行事，故谋则成，卜则吉，战则胜。
其《诗》曰： 帝谓文王，询尔仇方，同尔弟兄，以尔钩援，与尔临冲，以伐崇庸。
崇国城守，先退后伐，所以重人命，俟时而动，故参分天下而有其二。
陛下承大乱之极，受命而帝，兴明祖宗，出入四年，而灭檀乡，制五校，降铜马，破赤眉，诛邓奉之属，不为无功。
今京师空匮，资用不足，未能服近而先事边外；且渔阳之地，逼接北狄，黠虏困迫，必求其助。
translation: 
◆It is said in Fu Zhan's biography that Fu Zhan was named Hui Gong and was a native of Dongwu, King of Lang.
The ninth generation ancestor Fu Sheng, whose courtesy name was Zi Jian, was the so-called Jinan Fu Sheng.
Fu Zhan's great-great-grandfather Fu Ru was a visiting professor at Dongwu during the reign of Emperor Wu, so he made Dongwu his home.
His father, Fuli, was a famous Confucian in the world. He became an emperor by teaching "Poems" and was a tutor in Gaomi. He became a famous scholar in his own family.
Fu Zhan respected his parents and loved his brothers. He taught his father's business from an early age and taught hundreds of people.
When he became emperor, he accepted his father as his doctorate disciple.
He was transferred to the official position five times. When he arrived at Wang Mang, he was enforcing the law in Xiu Yi, which made the inspector a traitor.
Gengshi was established, and Fu Zhan was appointed as the prefect of Pingyuan.
At that time, there was a hasty war, and the world was in panic, but Fu Zhan was very quiet and continued to teach.
He said to his wife and children: If the harvest is not harvested in the new year, the king should withdraw from the banquet. Now the people are starving, how can they be fed alone?
So they ate coarse grains together and used the income from their salaries to provide relief to the village. There were more than a hundred visitors.
At that time, the governor was very powerful and planned to raise troops for Fu Zhan. Fu Zhan hated him for confusing people, so he was about to behead him and hang his head on the city wall to show the people. As a result, the officials and the people were convinced and admired him, and the county was stable.
A county in Pingyuan was preserved by Fu Zhan.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he knew that Fu Zhan was a well-known Confucian old official, so he wanted to make him take charge of the internal affairs, worship the minister, and let him review the old laws and regulations.
At that time, Deng Yu, the Great Situ, was on an expedition to the west of Guanzhong. The emperor appointed Fu Zhancai as Prime Minister and worshiped him as Sizhi, performing the duties of the Great Situ.
Whenever Guangwu went on an expedition, he was often left to guard the capital and take photos of all the divisions.
In the third year of Jianwu's reign, he succeeded Deng Yu as the Great Situ and was granted the title of Marquis of Yangdu.
At that time, Peng Chong rebelled against Yuyang, and Guangwu wanted to conquer it himself. Fu Zhan advised him: "I heard that King Wen was ordered to conquer the five countries. I must first consult the opinions of the people with the same surname, and then seek advice from the officials, and then seize the turtle to decide what to do. Therefore, planning will succeed, divination will be auspicious, and war will win."
His "Poetry" said: God said to King Wen: It is necessary to obtain the support of friendly countries, to unite brothers and friendly countries, to prepare siege ladders, to prepare approaching chariots and rushing chariots, in order to attack the vicious Chongguo.
The city of Chongguo was fortified and did not fall for thirty days. It retreated to repair the government and resumed the attack. Therefore, it valued human life and moved when the time came. Therefore, it was able to divide the world into two parts.
Your Majesty inherited the great chaos and was appointed emperor to revive the great ancestors. He spent four years in and out of town, destroyed Tan Township, controlled five schools, surrendered bronze horses, defeated red eyebrows, and killed Deng Feng's subordinates. It was not for nothing.
Nowadays, the capital is short of space and resources, so it is unable to conquer those close to home and conquers the outside world first. Moreover, in the land of Yuyang, approaching Beidi, Peng Chong is in dire straits and must seek help from him.

summary:
summary line 0: Fu Zhan, also known as Hui Gong, was a native of Dongwu. He was a descendant of the scholar Fu Sheng. Fu Zhan was a filial and learned man who taught his father's teachings to hundreds of students. During the chaos of the Gengshi era, he served as the Prefect of Pingyuan, where he remained calm, ate coarse grains, and used his salary to relieve the starving people. He beheaded a powerful governor who planned to raise troops, which stabilized the county. When Guangwu came to the throne, Fu Zhan was appointed to high office, eventually becoming the Grand Situ and Marquis of Yangdu. He advised the emperor against personally conquering the rebel Peng Chong, arguing that the emperor should first secure the central territories. The emperor heeded his advice. A thief named Xu Yiqing, who could not be defeated by officers, surrendered specifically to Fu Zhan. Fu Zhan was later dismissed from his post for a minor fault. He was later recommended for reinstatement but died of heatstroke before he could take office.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
髫发厉志，白首不衰。
实足以先后王室，名足以光示远人。
古者选擢诸侯以为公卿，是故四方回首，仰望京师。
柱石之臣，宜居辅弼，出入禁门，补缺拾遗。
臣诗愚戆，不足以知宰相之才，窃怀区区，敢不自竭。
臣前为侍御史，上封事，言湛公廉爱下，好恶分明，累世儒学，素持名信，经明行修，通达国政，尤宜近侍，纳言左右，旧制九州五尚书，令一郡二人，可以湛代。
其后步遂杀之，时人莫不怜哀焉。
五年，张步平，车驾幸北海，诏隆中弟咸收隆丧，赐给棺敛，太中大夫护送丧事，诏告琅邪作冢，以子瑗为郎中。
侯霸字君房，河南密人也。
族父渊，以宦者有才辩，任职元帝时，佐右显等领中书，号曰大常侍。
成帝时，任霸为太子舍人。
霸矜严有威容，家累千金，不事产业。
笃志好学，师事九江太守房元，治《谷梁春秋》，为元都讲。
王莽初，王威司命陈崇举霸德行，迁随宰。
县界旷远，滨带江湖，而亡命者多为寇盗。
霸到，即案诛豪猾，分捕山贼，县中清静。
再迁为执法刺奸，纠案势位者，无所疑惮。
后为淮平大尹，政理有能名。
及王莽之败，霸保固自守，卒全一郡。
更始元年，遣使征霸，百姓老弱相携号哭，遮使者车，或当道而卧。
皆曰： 愿乞侯君复留期年。
民至乃戒乳妇勿得举子，侯君当去，必不能合。
使者虑霸就征，临淮必乱，不敢授玺书，具以状闻。
会更始败，道路不通。
translation: 
From the time when a child makes a determination, to the time when his head turns gray, his determination will never fade.
His actions are enough to guide the royal family, and his reputation is enough to enlighten people from afar.
In ancient times, princes were selected as ministers, so everyone looked back and looked up at the capital.
The ministers of the pillars should occupy the position of assistant ministers and go in and out of the palace to remedy deficiencies and correct mistakes.
My minister Du Shi is too stupid to know the talent of the prime minister. I only have a small talent and dare not to do my best to be loyal.
In front of the minister, I served as the censor, and presented a sealed memorial, saying that Fu Zhan was fair, upright, caring for his subordinates, had clear likes and dislikes, had studied Confucianism for generations, had a good reputation, was knowledgeable in classics, cultivated virtues, and had a good understanding of national affairs. In particular, he should be a close minister and receive advice from his left and right. According to the old system, nine states would elect a total of five people to serve as ministers. According to the order, there are two people in a county, and Fu Zhan can replace one person.
This attracted considerable criticism from the deacons. However, the minister Du Shi was deeply favored and said that as long as it was beneficial to the country, he would have no regrets even if he died, so he once again overstepped his duties and risked the memorial.
In the summer of the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he was summoned to return to the court, and the minister was ordered to choose a date to confer an official position. Before he could take office, he died of heat stroke due to the summons and banquet. He was given a coffin, the emperor went to express his condolences in person, and sent envoys to attend the funeral and build the tomb.
◆Hou Ba's biography: Hou Ba's courtesy name Junfang was from Mi County, Henan County.
Hou Yuan, the father of the clan, was a talented official and served in the Yuan Dynasty. He assisted Shi Xian and others to become Zhongshu, and was called the Great Changshi.
When he became emperor, he appointed Hou Ba to sacrifice his life for the prince.
Hou Ba is reserved, serious and majestic. His family has a lot of money and he is not engaged in property.
Dedicated and eager to learn, he took Fang Yuan, the prefect of Jiujiang, as his teacher. He wrote the "Guliang Spring and Autumn Annals" and taught it for Fang Yuan.
At the beginning of Wang Mang's reign, Chen Chong, the commander of Wuwei, recommended Hou Ba Dexing and moved to the county magistrate.
The county borders are far away, with rivers and lakes on the coast, and most of the desperadoes are bandits.
When Hou Ba arrived, he immediately opened a case to kill the powerful and cunning people, and arrested the bandits separately. The county was quiet and peaceful.
Then he moved to law enforcement, assassinated rapes, reported and exposed powerful people, without any suspicion or fear.
Later he became Dayin of Huaiping, and he was known for his ability in political governance.
When Wang Mang failed, Hou Ba defended himself and made the whole county safe.
In the first year of Gengshi, envoys were sent to summon Hou Ba. The common people, old and weak, cried and blocked the envoys' vehicles, or lay down in the road.
They all said: I would like to beg to stay in office for another year.
The people even warned young women not to have children. If Hou Jun left, it would be difficult to save the children in the future.
The envoy was afraid that Hou Ba would leave due to the conquest, which would lead to chaos in Linhuai, so he did not dare to grant the seal to Hou Ba, so he wrote a memorial to report the situation to the court.
It happened that the reform failed and the road was blocked.

summary:
summary line 1: Hou Ba, courtesy name Junfang, was from Mi County. He was a serious and dedicated student of the "Guliang Spring and Autumn Annals." As a county magistrate, he killed powerful criminals and arrested bandits, bringing peace to the region. As the Grand Administrator of Huaipei, he was known for his capable governance. When Wang Mang failed, he defended the county. The people begged for him to stay when he was summoned by Gengshi. Under Guangwu, he became a minister and established many good governance laws. He succeeded Fu Zhan as Grand Situ. He was known for being clear-minded and selfless. After his death, the emperor posthumously named him Marquis Ai of Zixiang, and the people of Linhuai built a temple for him.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
建武四年，光武征霸与车驾会寿春，拜尚书令。
时无故典，朝廷又少旧臣，霸明习故事，收录遗文，条奏前世善政法度有益于时者，皆施行之。
每春下宽大之诏，奉四时之令，皆霸所建也。
明年，代伏湛为大司徒，封关内侯。
在位明察守正，奉公不回。
十三年，霸薨，帝深伤惜之，亲自临吊。
下诏曰： 惟霸积善清洁。视事九年。汉家旧制，丞相拜曰，封为列侯。
朕以军师暴露，功臣未封，缘忠臣之义，不欲相逾，未及爵命，奄然而终。
呜呼哀哉！
昱卒，子建嗣。
建卒，子昌嗣。
宋弘字仲子，京兆长安人也。
父尚，成帝时至少府。哀帝立，以不附董贤，违忤抵罪。
弘少而温顺，哀、平间作侍中，王莽时为共工。
赤眉入长安，遣使征弘，逼迫不得已，行至渭桥，自投于水，家人救得出，因佯死获免。
光武即位，征拜太中大夫。
建武二年，代王梁为大司空，封栒邑侯。
所得租奉分赡九族，家无资产，以清行致称。
徙封宣平侯。
帝尝问弘通博之士，弘乃荐沛国醒谭才学洽闻，几能及杨雄、刘向父子。
于是召谭拜议郎、给事中。
帝每宴，辄令鼓琴，好其繁声。
弘闻之不悦，悔于荐举，伺谭内出，正朝服坐府上，遣吏召之。
谭至，不与席而让之曰： 吾所以荐子者，欲令辅国家以道德也，而今数进郑声以乱《雅》、《颂》，非忠正者也。
能自改邪？
将令相举以法乎？
谭顿首辞谢，良久乃遣之。
translation: 
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, Guangwu summoned Hou Ba to meet him in Shouchun and worshiped him as Shangshu Ling.
There were no historical classics at that time, and there were few old ministers in the court. Hou Baming studied the affairs of the previous court, collected the posthumous documents, and wrote down the good governance laws of the previous life that were beneficial to the time, and they were all implemented.
The lenient edicts issued every spring and the political orders of the four seasons were all established by Hou Ba.
In the second year, he was appointed Grand Situ on behalf of Fu Zhan and was granted the title of Marquis of Guan Nei.
When in office, he is clear-minded, upright, and selfless.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Hou Ba passed away. Emperor Guangwu was deeply saddened and paid his respects in person.
The edict said: Hou Ba has accumulated good deeds and has been in charge of the court for nine years. According to the old system of the Han Dynasty, on the day when he was granted the title of Prime Minister, he was also granted the title of Lieutenant Commander.
I have been exposed to the outside world all year round due to my military service, and my meritorious service has not yet been rewarded. I do not want to exceed the obligation of loyalty, but before I could be awarded a title, Hou Ba passed away.
Alas!
So he named Hou Ba the posthumous title of Aihou of Zixiang, with a settlement of 2,600 households. Zihou Yu succeeded to the throne.
Linhuai officials and people jointly built a temple for him and offered sacrifices at all times.
◆Song Hong's biography: Song Hong's courtesy name was Zhongzi, and he was a native of Chang'an, Jingzhao.
His father, Shang Shang, had the lowest official rank when he became emperor. When Emperor Ai was established, he disobeyed Dong Xian and was punished because he did not attach himself to Dong Xian.
Song Hong was young and docile. He served as an attendant during the reign of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, and served as Gonggong during the reign of Wang Mang.
Chimei entered Chang'an and sent envoys to recruit Song Hong. He had no choice but to commit suicide. When he reached Weiqiao, he threw himself into the water. His family rescued him and he was spared by pretending to be dead.
Guangwu ascended the throne and was worshiped as Taizhong doctor.
In the second year of Jianwu, Wang Liang was granted the title of Grand Sikong and was granted the title of Marquis of Yi.
The rent earned is divided among the nine clans. The family has no assets and is known for its honesty.
He was granted the title of Marquis of Xuanping.
The emperor once asked Song Hong who was the most knowledgeable scholar, so Song Hong recommended Huan Tan of Pei State, who was rich in knowledge and knowledge, almost comparable to Yang Xiong and Liu Xiang and his son.
So he called Huan Tan to worship him as Yilang and gave him the title of Shizhong.
The emperor ordered him to play drums and harps every time he held a banquet, and he loved the sound of the music.
Song Hong was unhappy when he heard that he regretted recommending him. When Huan Tan came out, Song Hong sat in his house wearing neat court clothes and sent someone to summon Huan Tan.
When Huan Tan arrived, he criticized him before he could sit down and said: "The reason why I recommend you is that you can help the country with morality. Now you have interfered with Zheng Sheng several times to mess with "Ya" and "Song". This is not a sign of loyalty."
Can you correct it yourself?
Or should we use Dharma to uplift others?
Huan Tan thanked him and waited for a long time before letting him go.

summary:
summary line 2: Song Hong, courtesy name Zhongzi, was from Chang'an. He served under several emperors and Wang Mang. When Chimei entered Chang'an, he attempted suicide by drowning to avoid serving them but was rescued. Under Guangwu, he became Grand Sikong and was known for his honesty, distributing his rent among his clan. He once recommended Huan Tan to the emperor, but later criticized Huan Tan for playing secular music at court banquets, which Song Hong felt was inappropriate. When the emperor tried to arrange a marriage between Song Hong and his widowed sister, Princess Huyang, Song Hong refused, stating that a friend from humble times should not be forgotten, and a wife from poverty should not be cast aside. He was later dismissed from his post.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
会天下扰乱，茂素与窦融善，因避难归之。融欲以为张掖太守，固辞不就；每所饷给，计口取足而已。
后与融俱征，复拜议郎，再迁广汉太守，有政绩称。
时阴氏宾客在郡界多犯吏禁，茂辄纠案，无所回避。
会洛阳令董宣举纠湖阳公主，帝始怒收宣，既而赦之。
茂喜宣刚正，欲令朝廷禁制贵戚，乃上书曰： 臣闻兴化致教，必由进善；康国宁人，莫大理恶。
陛下圣德系兴，再隆大命，即位以来，四海晏然。
诚宜夙兴夜寐，虽休勿休。
然顷者贵戚椒房之家，数因恩势，干犯吏禁，杀人不死，伤人不论。
臣恐绳墨弃而不用，斧斤废而不举。
近湖阳公主奴杀人西市，而与主共舆，出入宫省，逋罪积日，冤魂不报。
洛阳令董宣，直道不顾，干主讨奸。
陛下不先澄审，召欲加。
当宣受怒之初，京师侧耳；及其蒙宥，天下试目。
今者，外戚憍逸，宾客放滥，宜敕有司案理奸罪，使执平之吏永申其用，以厌远近不缉之情。
光武纳之。
建武二十年，代戴涉为司徒，在职清俭匪懈。
在官三年卒，诏书慜惜，赐车一乘，钱四十万。
冯勤字伟伯，魏郡繁阳人也。
曾祖父扬，宣帝时为弘农太守。
有八子，皆为二千石，赵魏间荣之，号曰 万石君 焉。
兄弟形皆伟壮，唯勤祖父偃，长不满七尺，常自耻短陋，恐子孙之似也，乃为子伉娶长妻。
伉生勤，长八尺三寸。
八岁善计。
初为太守铫期功曹，有高能称。
期常从光武征伐，政事一以委勤。
translation: 
When the world was in turmoil, Cai Mao had always been friendly with Dou Rong, so he took refuge with Dou Rong. Dou Rong wanted to make him the prefect of Zhangye, but Cai Mao refused to take office. He only took enough rations every time he was paid.
Later, he and Dou Rong were both recruited, and then paid homage to Yilang, and then moved to Guanghan as governor, with good political achievements.
At that time, guests of the Yin family often violated official bans in the county. Cai Mao did not avoid any dispute cases.
It happened that Luoyang ordered Dong Xuan to correct Princess Huyang. The emperor became angry and arrested Dong Xuan, but later pardoned her.
Cai Mao liked Dong Xuan's uprightness and wanted the court to prohibit and restrict the illegal behavior of his relatives, so he wrote a letter saying: "When I hear that people are enlightened and want to teach, they must start with doing good; for people in Kang Guoning, the most important thing is to deal with evil people."
His Majesty's virtue has flourished, and he has once again inherited his great mission. Since he came to the throne, he has been prosperous all over the world.
You should get up early and go to bed late, and don't rest when you should.
However, recently, the family of nobles, concubines, and concubines have relied on their favors many times to violate official regulations, killing people without the death penalty, and injuring others without punishment.
I am afraid that laws and regulations will be abandoned and punishments will not be used.
Recently, the slave of the Princess of Huyang killed someone in the Western Market, and he rode in a carriage with the princess, going in and out of the palace, and escaped for many days without being punished.
Luoyang ordered Dong Xuan to handle the case according to the right way, regardless of the powerful, and to attack the murderer of the princess.
Your Majesty did not investigate first, but wanted to flog him more.
When Dong Xuan was angry with His Majesty, the capital paid close attention to him; when Your Majesty pardoned him, everyone in the world watched.
Nowadays, the foreign relatives are arrogant and have too many guests. We should order someone to handle the crime of adultery so that the just officials can always gain credibility and restrain illegal activities near and far.
Guangwu accepted it.
In the 20th year of Jianwu's reign, he replaced Dai She as Situ. He was honest, frugal and uncompromising in his duties.
He died in his post in the twenty-third year at the age of seventy-two. He was given a coffin in Dongyuan, and the funeral money was generous.
◆Feng Qin's biography: Feng Qin was named Wei Bo and was a native of Fanyang, Wei County.
Great-grandfather Feng Yang was the prefect of Hongnong during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
He had eight sons, each with two thousand stones. Zhao and Wei were very proud of him and called him Lord Wanshi.
All the brothers were strong, but Feng Qin's grandfather, Feng Yan, was less than seven feet tall. He was often ashamed of his short stature, fearing that his descendants would also be short, so he married his son Feng and his wife to a tall wife.
Feng Qin, the son of Feng and his wife, was eight feet three inches tall.
You can do arithmetic at the age of eight.
At first, he was the governor of Yaoqi, a meritorious officer, and had the title of capable person.
Yaoqi often went on expeditions from Guangwu, and entrusted all political affairs to Feng Qin.

summary:
summary line 3: Cai Mao, courtesy name Zili, was from Hanoi. He was a renowned Confucian who refused to serve under Wang Mang. He took refuge with Dou Rong. Under Guangwu, he became the Grand Administrator of Guanghan. He wrote a memorial criticizing the illegal behavior of imperial relatives and praising the uprightness of Luoyang's magistrate, Dong Xuan. He later became Situ and was known for his honesty and frugality. He died in office.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
勤同县冯巡等举兵应光武，谋未成而为豪右焦廉等所反，勤乃率将老母、兄弟及宗亲归期，期悉以为腹心，荐于光武。
初未被用，后乃除为郎中，给事尚书。
以图议军粮，在事精勤，遂见亲识。
每引进，帝辄顾谓左右曰： 佳乎吏也！
由是使典诸侯封事。
勤差量功次轻重，国土远近，地势丰薄，不相逾越，莫不厌服焉。
自是封爵之制，非勤不定。
帝益以为能，尚书众事，皆令总录之。
司徒侯霸荐前梁令阎杨。
杨素有讥议，帝常嫌之，既见霸奏，疑其有奸，大怒，赐霸玺书曰： 崇山、幽都何可偶，黄钺一下无处所。
欲以身试法邪？将杀身以成仁邪？
使勤奉策至司徒府。
勤还，陈霸本意，申释事理，帝意稍解，拜勤尚书仆射。
职事十五年，以勤劳赐爵关内侯。
迁尚书令，拜大司农，三岁迁司徒。
先是，三公多见罪退，帝贤勤，欲令以善自终，乃因宴见从容戒之曰： 朱浮上不忠于君，下陵轹同列，竟以中伤至今，死生吉凶未可知，岂不惜哉！
人臣放逐受诛，虽复追加赏赐赙祭，不足以偿不訾之身。
忠臣孝子，览照前世，以为镜诫。
能尽忠于国，事君无二，则爵赏光乎当世，功名列于不朽，可不勉哉！
勤愈恭约尽忠，号称任职。
勤母年八十，每会见，诏敕勿拜，令御者扶上殿，顾谓诸王主曰： 使勤贵宠者，此母也。
卯延光中为侍中，薨，子留嗣。
赵憙字伯阳，南阳宛人也。
少有节操。
从兄为人所杀，无子，憙年十五，常思报之。
translation: 
Feng Qin and the county people Feng Xun and others raised troops to respond to Guangwu, but the plan failed and was opposed by the powerful right Jiao Lian and others. Feng Qin then led his mother, brothers and clan relatives to join Yaoqi. Yaoqi regarded them as confidants and recommended them to Guangwu.
He was not appointed at first, but later he was appointed as a doctor and served as a minister.
He was able to negotiate military supplies and was shrewd and diligent in doing things, so he was valued by Guangwu's cronies.
Every time he was introduced, the emperor always said to his left and right: "What a good official!"
As a result, Feng Qin was asked to examine the Jin feudal issues of the princes.
Feng Qin weighed the importance of merit, the distance of the country, the richness of the terrain, and made the reward consistent with the merit without exceeding it, which convinced everyone.
From then on, the system of nobility had to be reviewed and approved by Feng Qin.
The emperor thought that he was capable and ordered him to record all the affairs of the minister.
Situ Houba recommended Yan Yang, the former Liang commander.
Yan Yang was always ridiculed, and the emperor disliked him very much. When he saw Hou Ba's memorial, he suspected him of treachery. He was furious and sent a seal to Hou Ba, saying: "Do you think there is any place in Chongshan or Youdu that I can settle down?" Huang Yue suddenly had no place to go.
Do you want to test the law with your own body, or do you want to kill yourself to achieve benevolence?
He sent Feng Qin to Situ's mansion with the policy letter.
Feng Qin came back, stated Hou Ba's original intention, and explained the reasons for it. The emperor was a little more lenient and worshiped Feng Qin as the minister.
After serving for fifteen years, he was awarded the title of Marquis of Guannei for his hard work.
He moved to Shangshu Ling and became a minister of agricultural affairs. Three years later, he moved to Situ.
First, many of the three princes resigned because of their crimes. The emperor regarded Feng Qin as a virtuous person and wanted him to start well and end well. So he calmly warned him during the banquet and said: "Zhu Fu was not loyal to the emperor above and bullied his colleagues below. He actually slandered him until now. It is unknown whether he will live or die. Isn't it a pity!"
The ministers were exiled and punished, and although they were given additional rewards and sacrifices, they were still not enough to repay the immeasurable body.
Loyal ministers and filial sons look at their past lives as a warning.
If you can be loyal to the country and serve the emperor without any second thoughts, then the honors and honors will be glorious in this world, and the fame will be immortal. Shouldn't you encourage it?
Feng Qin became more respectful and conscientious in serving the country with loyalty, and was known as his official.
Feng Qin's mother was eighty years old. Every time she met, he ordered her not to bow. She ordered her attendants to help her go to the palace and face the kings and princesses and say: "It is this old mother who favors Feng Qin."
He is so respected. When he passed away in the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, the emperor mourned him and sent envoys to express his condolences. He also gave him a coffin in Dongyuan, which was a generous gift.
◆Zhao Xi's biography: Zhao Xi's courtesy name is Boyang, and he was a native of Wan, Nanyang County.
There is integrity when you are young.
His cousin was killed and he had no children. Zhao Xi was only fifteen years old and often wanted to take revenge.

summary:
summary line 4: Feng Qin, courtesy name Wei Bo, was from Fanyang. He was tall and capable with arithmetic. He served as a meritorious officer under Yaoqi and was recommended to Guangwu. He was valued for his skill in negotiating military supplies and was put in charge of examining the fiefs of the princes, a system he established. He later became Situ. The emperor warned him to be a loyal minister, using the example of Zhu Fu. Feng Qin served with respect and conscientiousness. His mother was honored by the emperor. He died in office.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
乃挟兵结客，后遂往复仇。
而仇家皆疾病，无相距者。
憙以因疾报杀，非仁者心，且释之而去。
顾谓仇曰： 尔曹若健，远相避也。
仇皆卧自搏。
后病愈，悉自缚诣憙，憙不与相见，后竟杀之。
更始即位，舞阴大姓李氏拥城不下，更始遣柱天将军李宝降之，不肯，云： 闻宛之赵氏有孤孙憙，信义著名，愿得降之。
更始乃征憙。憙年未二十，既引见，更始笑曰： 茧栗犊，岂能负重致远乎？
即除为郎中，行偏将军事，使诣舞阴，而李氏遂降。
憙因进入颍川，击诸不下者，历汝南界，还宛。
更始大悦，谓憙曰： 卿名家驹，努力勉之。
会王莽遣王寻、王邑将兵出关，更始乃拜憙为五威偏将军，使助诸将拒寻、邑于昆阳。
光武破寻、邑，憙被创，有战劳，还拜中郎将，封勇功侯。
更始败，憙为赤眉兵所围，迫急，乃逾屋亡走，与所友善韩仲伯等数十人，携小弱，越山阻，径出武关。
仲伯以妇色美，虑有强暴者，而已受其害，欲弃之于道。
憙责怒不听，因以泥涂伯仲妇面，载以鹿车，身自推之。
每道逢贼，或欲逼略，憙辄言其病状，以此得免。
既入丹水，遇更始亲属，皆裸跣涂炭，饥困不能前。
憙见之悲感，所装缣制资粮，悉以与之，将护归乡里。
时，邓奉反于南阳，憙素与奉善，数遗书切责之，而谗者因方憙与奉合谋，帝以为疑。
及奉败，帝得憙书，乃惊曰： 赵憙真长者也。
即征憙，引见，赐鞍马，待诏公车。
translation: 
So he practiced weapons, entertained guests, and later went out for revenge.
The enemies were all sick and no one could resist.
Zhao Xi thought that killing someone in revenge for illness was not the behavior of a benevolent person, so he let him go for the time being.
Turn back and say to your enemies: If you recover from your illness, you should stay away from me.
The enemies all lay down and kowtowed to apologize.
After they recovered from their illness, they all came to see Zhao Xi. Zhao Xi refused to meet them and later killed them.
Gengshi came to the throne, and the Li family of Wucheng held the city and refused to surrender. Gengshi sent General Li Bao of Zhutian to recruit him to surrender, but Li refused and said: I heard that the Zhao family of Wan has an orphan grandson Zhao Xi who is famous for his faith and is willing to surrender to him.
Gengshi recruited Zhao Xi, who was less than twenty years old. After the introduction, Gengshi smiled and said: "You are still a child, how can you carry a heavy burden and carry a long distance?"
He was appointed as a doctor and acted as a military general. He was asked to go to Wuyin, and Li surrendered to him.
Therefore, Zhao Xi entered Yingchuan, attacked those who refused to surrender, reached the border of Runan, and returned to Wan.
Gengshi was overjoyed and said to Zhao Xi: "You are really a great talent, please work hard and encourage me."
It happened that Wang Mang sent Wang Xun and Wang Yi to lead their troops out of the pass. Gengshi worshiped Zhao Xi as the five powerful partial generals and asked him to assist the generals in resisting Wang Xun and Wang Yi in Kunyang.
Guangwu defeated Wang Xun and Wang Yi, Zhao Xi was wounded, and had meritorious service. After returning, he was worshiped as Zhonglang General and a Marquis for bravery.
The reform failed, and Zhao Xi was besieged by the red-browed soldiers, so he climbed up the house and escaped. He and his friend Han Zhongbo and dozens of others, carrying children and the infirm, climbed the mountain to overcome obstacles and left Wuguan.
Han Zhongbo thought that his wife was beautiful, but he was worried that someone would rape her and he would be harmed, so he wanted to abandon his wife on the road.
Zhao Xi was angry and refused to listen, so he smeared mud on Han Zhongbo's wife's face, put her on a cart, and pushed the cart with his own body.
Whenever she met a thief or wanted to persecute her, Zhao Xi would tell her that she was seriously ill and thus be spared.
When they arrived in Danshui County, they met Gengshi's family members. They were all naked, covered in mud, hungry and trapped, and could no longer move forward.
When Zhao Xi saw this, he was filled with sorrow and gave them all the clothes, silk and supplies he had packed, and escorted them back to their hometown.
At this time, Deng Feng was working in Nanyang. Zhao Xi was always friendly with Deng Feng and wrote to him several times to accuse him. However, the rumor maker falsely accused Zhao Xi of conspiring with Deng Feng, which the emperor used as suspicion.
When Deng Feng failed, the emperor searched for the letter written by Zhao Xi to Deng Feng, and was shocked and said: Zhao Xi is really an elder.
That is to say, he summoned Zhao Xi, received him, gave him a saddle and horse, and waited for the imperial edict to be placed in the public carriage.

summary:
summary line 5: Zhao Xi, courtesy name Boyang, was from Wan. As a youth, he sought revenge for his cousin but delayed the act until his enemies recovered from illness. He was recruited by Gengshi to persuade the Li family of Wucheng to surrender. He fought at Kunyang and was wounded. After Gengshi's failure, he helped friends and Gengshi's family escape, protecting them from bandits. He was falsely accused of conspiracy but was cleared by the emperor. He served as a county magistrate and governor, suppressing bandits and punishing the powerful. He was known for his mercy, moving surrendered bandits to other counties. He became Taiwei and managed frontier affairs, ordering immigrants to return to their original lands. He presided over the funeral of Emperor Guangwu and established proper court etiquette for the princes. He died at age eighty-four.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
中元元年，从封泰山。
及帝崩，憙受遗诏，典丧礼。
是时，籓王皆在京师，自王莽篡乱，旧典不存，皇太子与东海王等杂止同席，宪章无序。
憙乃正色，横剑殿阶，扶下诸王，以明尊卑。
时，籓国官属出入宫省，与百僚无别，憙乃表奏谒者将护，分止它县，诸王并令就邸，唯朝晡入临。
整礼仪，严门卫，内外肃然。
永平元年，封节乡侯。
三年春，坐考中山相薛脩事不实免。
其冬，代窦融为卫尉。
八年，代虞延行太尉事，居府如真。
后遭母忧，上疏乞身行丧礼，显宗不许，遣使者为释服，赏赐恩宠甚渥。
憙内典宿卫，外干宰职，正身立朝，未尝懈惰。
及帝崩，复典丧事，再奉大行，礼事修举。
肃宗即位，进为太傅，录尚书事。
擢诸子为郎吏者七人。长子代，给事黄门。
子直嗣，官至步兵校尉。
直卒，子淑嗣，无子，国除。
牟融字子优，北海安丘人也。
少博学，以《大夏侯尚书》教授，门徒数百人，名称州里。
以司徒茂才为丰令，视事三年，县无狱讼，为州郡最。
司徒范迁荐融忠正公方，经行纯备，宜在本朝，并上其理状。
永平五年，入代鲍昱为司隶校尉，多所举正，百僚敬惮之。
八年，代包咸为大鸿胪。
十一年，代鲑阳鸿为大司农。
是时，显宗方勤万机，公卿数朝会，每辄延谋政事，判折狱讼。
融经明才高，善论议，朝廷皆服其能；帝数嗟叹，以为才堪宰相。
明年，代伏恭为司空，举动方重，甚得大臣节。
肃宗即位，以融先朝名臣，代赵憙为太尉，与憙参录尚书事。
建初四年薨，车驾亲临其丧。
时融长子麟归乡里，帝以其余子幼弱，敕太尉掾史教其威仪进止，赠赗恩宠笃密焉。
又赐冢茔地于显节陵下，除麟为郎。
translation: 
In the first year of Zhongyuan, he followed Feng Chan Taishan.
Later, when the emperor died, Zhao Xi accepted the imperial edict and presided over the funeral.
At that time, all the vassal kings were in the capital. Since Wang Mang usurped the throne, the old rules and regulations no longer existed. The Crown Prince and the King of Donghai sat at the same table, and the charter was out of order.
Zhao Xi then looked upright, raised his sword across the palace steps, and helped the kings down to show their superiority and inferiority.
At that time, the officials of the vassal state came in and out of the palace and provinces, and they were no different from the other officials. Zhao Xi reported that he was escorted by his close servants and separated into other counties. The kings returned to their respective residences and only came in the morning and evening.
Clean the etiquette, strictly guard the door, and be solemn inside and outside.
In the first year of Yongping, he was granted the title of Marquis of the Countryside.
In the spring of three years, he was dismissed from office because he found out the truth about Zhongshan Prime Minister Xue.
In the winter of this year, Dai Dou Rong became a guard.
In the eighth year, he took over the affairs of the Taiwei on behalf of Yu Yan and lived in the mansion as if it were true.
Later, when his mother died, Shangshu requested to go home for the funeral, but Xianzong refused. He sent an envoy to take off his mourning clothes and rewarded him with great favors.
Zhao Xun presided over the imperial guards internally and held the position of prime minister externally.
When the emperor passed away, he presided over the funeral and performed the ceremony again, and the ceremony was complete.
Suzong ascended the throne, became Taifu, and took charge of the affairs of the Shangshu.
Among the seven people who promoted his sons to be officials, the eldest son Zhao Dai served in Huangmen.
In the fifth year of Jianchu's reign, Zhao Xi fell ill, and the emperor came to visit him in person.
After he died of illness, the emperor personally went to pay his respects. He was eighty-four years old, and his posthumous title was Zhenghou.
◆The biography of Mou Rong Mou Rong, courtesy name Ziyou, was from Anqiu, Beihai County.
He was very knowledgeable when he was young, and became a professor of Daxia Hou Shangshu. He had hundreds of disciples named Zhouli.
With Situ Maocai as the magistrate of Feng County, he served for three years. There were no jail cases in the county, which was the best among the prefectures and counties.
Situ Fanqian recommended Mou Rong to be loyal, upright, and pure in behavior, and he should be in this dynasty, and reported his governance situation.
In the fifth year of Yongping, Bao Yu was appointed as Sili Xiaowei. He took many measures to correct the situation and was respected by all officials.
In the eighth year, Bao Xian was appointed as Dahonglu.
In the eleventh year, Dai Shayanghong was appointed as the chief agricultural officer.
At this time, Xianzong was working hard, and the ministers had several court meetings a day, and every time they planned political affairs with Yan, they were sentenced to prison and lawsuits.
Mou Rong was well versed in classics and had great talent, and he was good at discussion. The court admired his talent. The emperor sighed many times, thinking that Mou Rong had the talent of a prime minister.
In the second year, Dai Fugong became Sikong. His actions were upright and prudent, and he was highly respected as a minister.
When Suzong came to the throne, Mou Rong was a famous official in the previous dynasty. He replaced Zhao Xi as the Taiwei, and participated in the affairs of the general minister with Zhao Xi.
He died in the fourth year of his reign, and the emperor personally attended his funeral.
At that time, Mou Rong's eldest son Mou Lin returned to the countryside. The emperor thought that the other sons were young and weak, so he ordered the Taiwei to teach the emperor to teach him how to proceed with dignity and etiquette, and bestowed lavish favors on him.
He also gave a cemetery under the Xianjie Mausoleum and appointed Mou Lin as his minister.

summary:
summary line 6: Mou Rong, courtesy name Ziyou, was from Beihai. He was a professor of the "Great Xia Hou Shangshu." As a county magistrate, he had no jail cases. He served in various high offices, including Sili Xiaowei, Dahonglu, and Chief Agricultural Officer. He was well-versed in classics and had great talent for discussion. He became Taiwei under Emperor Suzong and died in office.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
韦彪字孟达，扶风平陵人也。
高祖贤，宣帝时为丞相。
祖赏，哀帝时为大司马。
彪孝行纯至，父母卒，哀毁三年，不出庐寝。
服竟，赢瘠骨立异形，医疗数年乃起。
好学洽闻，雅称儒宗。
建武末，举孝廉，除郎中，以病免，复归教授。
安贫乐道，恬于进趣，三辅诸儒莫不慕仰之。
显宗闻彪名，永平六年，召拜谒者，赐以车马衣服，三迁魏郡太守。
肃宗即位，以病免。
征为左中郎将、长乐卫尉，数陈政术，每归宽厚。
比上疏乞骸骨，拜为奉车都尉，秩中二千石，赏赐恩宠，俟于亲戚。
建初七年，车驾西巡府，以彪行太常从，数召入，问以三辅旧事，礼仪风俗。
彪因建言： 今西巡旧都，宜追录高祖、中宗功臣、褒显先勋，纪其子孙。
帝纳之。
行至长安，乃制诏京兆尹、右扶风求萧何、霍光后。
时光无苗裔，唯封何末孙熊为酂侯。
建初二年已封曹参后曹湛为平阳侯，故不复及焉。
乃厚赐彪钱珍羞食物，使归平陵上冢。
还，拜大鸿胪。
是时，陈事者多言郡国贡举率非功次，故守职益懈而吏事浸疏，咎在州郡。
有诏下公卿朝臣议。
彪上议曰： 伏惟明诏，忧劳百姓，垂恩选举，务得其人。
夫国以简贤为务，贤以孝行为首。
孔子曰： 事亲孝故忠可移于君，是以求忠臣必于孝子之门。
夫人才行少能相兼，是以孟公绰优于赵、魏老，不可以为滕、薛大夫。
忠孝之人，持心近厚；锻炼之吏，持心近薄。
三代之所以直道而行者，在其所以磨之故也。
translation: 
◆Biography of Wei Biao Wei Biao, courtesy name Mengda, was from Pingling, Fufeng.
The great ancestor Wei Xian was the prime minister during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
Zu Wei rewarded him, and he was the Grand Sima during the reign of Emperor Ai.
Wei Biao was a filial and upright person. When his parents died, he mourned for three years and guarded the tomb without leaving the house.
After taking the medicine, I became skinny and skinny, and my appearance also changed. It took several years for medical treatment to begin.
He was fond of learning and knowledgeable, and was elegantly called Confucian.
At the end of Jianwu's reign, he promoted filial piety and honesty, eliminated doctors, avoided retirement due to illness, and returned to teaching.
He lives in poverty and loves Taoism, but is indifferent to progress. All the Confucian scholars in the three auxiliaries admire him.
Xianzong heard about Wei Biao's reputation. In the sixth year of Yongping, he called him to pay homage to him, gave him carriages, horses and clothes, and moved him to be the prefect of Wei County.
Suzong ascended the throne and was relieved of his duties as prefect due to illness.
He was appointed as Zuo Zhonglang General and Changle Weiwei. He studied political skills and returned to the government every time.
He went to Shu several times to ask for his resignation, and he was appointed Captain of Fengche, with a rank of two thousand stones, and was rewarded with favors equal to those of his relatives.
In the seventh year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the emperor went on a hunting tour to the west. Wei Biao replaced Taichang Cong. He was summoned several times to ask about the old affairs, etiquette and customs of the three assistants.
Wei Biao therefore suggested: When inspecting the old capital in the west today, the heroes of Gaozu and Zhongzong should be traced, the heroes of Rongxian the first emperor should be praised, and their descendants should be recorded.
The emperor accepts.
When he arrived in Chang'an, he ordered Jing Zhaoyin and You Fufeng to seek the descendants of Xiao He and Huo Guang.
At that time, Huo Guang had no descendants, so he only named Xiao Xiong, a descendant of Xiao He, the Marquis of Zan.
In the second year of Jianchu, Cao Zhan, a descendant of Cao Shen, was granted the title of Marquis of Pingyang, so he no longer granted the title of descendant of Cao Shen.
So he gave Wei Biao money and delicacies and asked him to go back to Pingling to sweep the tomb and go to the tomb.
After returning, he worshiped him as Da Honglu.
At this time, many people who wrote letters said that most of the tributes from counties and counties were not in the order of merit, so that the duties were increasingly slack and the officials were neglected. The fault lies with the states and counties.
The emperor issued an edict and ordered the ministers to discuss the matter.
Wei Biao submitted a proposal and said: Your Majesty has issued an edict to care about the people, and you will be gracious to elect them to ensure that they are selected.
The country's top priority is to select talented people, and talented people should first act with filial piety.
Confucius said: If you are filial to relatives, your loyalty can be transferred to the king, so loyal ministers must be in the door of filial sons.
People rarely have both talent and behavior. Therefore, Meng Gongchuo is better than Zhao and Wei Lao, so he cannot be the doctor of Teng and Xue. Because Teng and Xue have small and complicated political affairs, they cannot bear it.
A person who is loyal and filial has a heart that is close to being generous; a person who has been trained and mature has a heart that is close to being mean.
The reason why the three generations have been able to follow a straight path is that the wise men in ancient times have been tempered and selected.

summary:
summary line 7: Wei Biao, courtesy name Mengda, was from Pingling. He was a descendant of the prime minister Wei Xian. He was known for his filial piety, mourning his parents for three years. He was a learned Confucian who lived in poverty. He was summoned by Emperor Xianzong and became the Prefect of Wei County. He later served as Da Honglu. He submitted a memorial arguing that the selection of officials should prioritize filial piety and conduct over talent. He also advised the emperor to reduce harsh punishments and select officials with experience as state governors. He was known for his frugality and charity, leaving his family with no money. He wrote a twelve-chapter work titled "Wei Qingzi."

