Chunk 0: 
original: 
五礼之别，三曰宾，盖朝宗、觐遇、会同之制是也。
自周以下，其礼弥繁。
自秦灭学之后，旧典残缺。汉兴，始使叔孙通制礼，参用先代之仪，然亦往往改异焉。汉仪有正会礼，正旦，夜漏未尽七刻，钟鸣受贺，公侯以下执贽夹庭，二千石以上升殿称万岁，然后作乐宴飨。
魏武帝都鄴，正会文昌殿，用汉仪，又设百华灯。
晋氏受命，武帝更定元会仪，《咸宁注》是也。
傅玄《元会赋》曰： 考夏后之遗训，综殷周之典艺，采秦汉之旧仪，定元正之嘉会。
此则兼采众代可知矣。
《咸宁注》： 先正一日，有司各宿设。
夜漏未尽十刻，群臣集到，庭燎起火。
translation: 
Among the five types of etiquette, the third type refers to the etiquette for guests, including meetings with emperors and gatherings of princes. Since the Zhou Dynasty, the etiquette system for sending people has become more and more complicated.
Since the Qin Dynasty burned books and harassed Confucian scholars, the laws and regulations of the past dynasties were incomplete.
With the rise of the Han Dynasty, Shusun Tong began to be sent to formulate etiquette, referring to the etiquette of the previous generations, but there were often changes. There is a formal ceremony in Modai etiquette. On the first day of the first lunar month, at less than seven quarters of the night, the bell rang to accept gifts. Dukes and princes stood on both sides of the court with gifts. Officials with a salary of more than two thousand dan went to the palace to shout long live, and then played music and feasted.
When Emperor Wu of Wei established his capital in Ye, he held a formal ceremony in Wenchang Hall, using the etiquette of the Han Dynasty, and set up hundreds of lanterns.
The Jin Dynasty accepted the mandate of heaven, and Emperor Wu revised the etiquette of the first lunar month of the first lunar month. This is what the "Xianning Notes" talks about.
Fu Xuan's "Yuan Hui Li" said: After examining the dispatch training of the Xia Dynasty, integrating the regulations of the Yin, Shang and Zhou dynasties, and adopting the old rituals of the Qin and Han Dynasties, we formulated the etiquette for the first lunar month of the first lunar month.
This shows how eclectic it is.
"Xianning Note": On the day before the first day of the first lunar month, the relevant officials should keep their duties.
Less than ten minutes into the night, all the officials gathered and the torches in the courtyard were lit.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
上贺，起，谒报，又贺皇后。
还，从云龙东中华门入，诣东阁下，便坐。
漏未尽七刻，百官及受贽郎官以下至计吏皆入立其次，其陛卫者如临轩仪。
漏未尽五刻，谒者、仆射、大鸿胪各各奏群臣就位定。
漏尽，侍中奏外办。
皇帝出，钟鼓作，百官皆拜伏。
太常导皇帝升御坐，钟鼓止，百官起。
大鸿胪跪奏 请朝贺 。
掌礼郎赞 皇帝延王登 。
大鸿胪跪赞 籓王臣某等奉白璧各一，再拜贺 。
太常报 王悉登 。
谒者引上殿，当御坐。
皇帝兴，王再拜。
皇帝坐，复再拜。
跪置璧御坐前，复再拜。
成礼讫，谒者引下殿，还故位。
掌礼郎赞 皇帝延太尉等 。
于是公、特进、匈奴南单于、金紫将军当大鸿胪西，中二千石、二千石、千石、六百石当大行令西，皆北面伏。
鸿胪跪赞 太尉、中二千石等奉璧、皮、帛、羔、雁、雉，再拜贺 。
太常赞 皇帝延公等登 。
掌礼引公至金紫将军上殿。
皇帝兴，皆再拜。
皇帝坐，又再拜。
跪置璧皮帛御坐前，复再拜。
translation: 
He went to court to congratulate, stood up, reported, and congratulated the queen.
After retreating, enter through the Yunlong Shuzhonghua Gate and sit in the wing in front of the Cambodian Gate.
At less than seven quarters of the night, all the officials, including the Langguan who received the gift, including the officials in charge of documents, stood in order, and the guards on the steps were like a ceremony for the emperor to arrive in front of the palace.
The timer was less than five quarters, and officials such as Ye Zhe, Pu She, and Da Honglu reported to the ministers that they were in their places.
The timer ran out, and the waiter announced that everything was ready outside.
The emperor came out, bells and drums played music, and officials at all levels knelt down to worship.
Taichang led the emperor to ascend the throne, the bells and drums stopped, and officials at all levels stood up.
Da Honglu knelt down to report and ask for congratulations.
The master of ceremonies sang praises to the emperor and invited him to the palace.
Da Honglu knelt down and sang praises. The vassal king's ministers presented a piece of white jade to each other and paid two obeisances to congratulate him.
Taichang informed Wangdu to go to the palace.
The visitor led them to the hall and sat down facing the emperor.
The emperor stood and the king bowed twice.
The emperor sat down and bowed twice again.
Kneeling, he placed the jade in front of the throne and bowed twice again.
After the ceremony, the audience led them down the hall and back to their original seats.
The chief minister sang praises and the emperor invited the Taiwei and others.
So Gong, Tejin, Xiongnu Nanchanyu, and General Jinzi faced the west of Dahonglu, and the officials with two thousand stones, two thousand stones, thousand stones, and six hundred stones faced the west of Daxingling, and they all knelt down facing north.
Honglu sang praises, and Taiwei, Zhongerqianshi and others presented jade, fur, silk, lambs, wild geese, and wild ducks, and paid two obeisances to congratulate him.
Taichang sang praises to the emperor and invited the Duke and others to come to the palace.
The Master of Ceremonies guided the Duke to General Jinzi and went to the palace.
The emperor stood and all the ministers knelt down twice.
The emperor sat down and the ministers bowed twice more.
Kneeling, he placed the jade, fur and silk in front of the emperor's throne and bowed twice again.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
成礼讫，谒者引下殿，还故位。
公置璧成礼时，大行令并赞殿下，中二千石以下同。
成礼讫，以贽授贽郎，郎以璧帛付谒者，羔、雁、雉付太官。
太乐令跪请奏雅乐，乐以次作。
乘黄令乃出车，皇帝罢入，百官皆坐。
昼漏上水六刻，诸蛮夷胡客以次入，皆再拜讫，坐。
御入后三刻又出，钟鼓作。
谒者、仆射跪奏 请群臣上 。
谒者引王公二千石上殿，千石、六百石停本位。
谒者引王诣樽酌寿酒，跪授侍中，侍中跪置御坐前。王还。
王自酌置位前。谒者跪奏 籓王臣某等奉觞，再拜上千万岁寿 。
四厢乐作，百官再拜。
已饮，又再拜。
谒者引王等还本位。
translation: 
After the ceremony is completed, the visitors are guided down the hall and back to their original seats.
When the duke presents the jade to complete the ceremony, he will sing praises to His Highness at the same time. The etiquette is the same for those who have received two thousand stones or less.
After completing the ceremony, gifts were given to Zhi Lang. Zhi Lang handed over jade and silk to the visitor, and lambs, wild geese, and wild geese to the eunuch.
Tai Leling knelt down and begged to play elegant music, and the music was played in order.
Cheng Huang ordered a chariot to be sent out. The emperor got into the chariot tiredly and all the ministers were seated.
At six quarters during the day, guests from all ethnic groups enter in order, and after bowing twice, they sit down.
Three-quarters of an hour after the car drove in, it came out again, with bells and drums playing music.
The visitors and servants knelt to present the memorial and invited the ministers to come to the hall.
The visitor guided the prince to the palace with two thousand stones, but the thousand stones and the six hundred stones stayed in place.
The visitor guided the king to the wine vessel, poured out the longevity wine, and handed it to the attendant on his knees. The waiter knelt down and placed the wine in front of the emperor's seat, and the king withdrew.
The king poured the wine himself and placed it in front of his throne. The visitor knelt down and reported that someone from the vassal king's subordinates raised a glass and wished the emperor a long life.
Music was played from all directions, and the ministers paid two more obeisances.
After drinking, pray twice more.
The visitor guided the king and others back to their original positions.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
陛下者传就席，群臣皆跪诺。
侍中、中书令、尚书令各于殿上上寿酒。
登歌乐升，太官又行御酒。
御酒升阶，太官令跪授侍郎，侍郎跪进御坐前。
乃行百官酒。
太乐令跪奏 奏登歌 ，三终乃降。
太官令跪请具御饭，到阶，群臣皆起。
太官令持羹跪授司徒，持饭跪授大司农，尚食持案并授持节，持节跪进御坐前。
群臣就席。
太乐令跪奏 奏食举乐 。
太官行百官饭案遍。
食毕，太乐令跪奏 请进乐 。
乐以次作。
鼓吹令又前跪奏 请以次进众妓 。
乃召诸郡计吏前，受敕戒于阶下。
宴乐毕，谒者一人跪奏 请罢退 。
钟鼓作，群臣北面再拜，出。
translation: 
The people at the steps of the palace were announced to be seated, and all the ministers knelt to agree.
Shizhong, Zhongshu Ling and Shangshu Ling respectively served longevity wine in the hall.
The ceremonial music was played, and the eunuch ordered the ministers to drink wine.
The royal wine was brought to the steps, and the eunuch ordered him to kneel down and give it to the waiter, who then kneeled and brought it to the throne.
So he distributed wine to all officials.
Tai Le ordered him to kneel down and play the "Song of Deng", and then he retired after playing three times.
The eunuch ordered to kneel down and ask for the royal meal to be prepared. When the meal was delivered to the steps, all the officials stood up.
Taiguan Ling knelt down with a spoon and handed it to Situ, and knelt down with rice and handed it to Da Sinong. Shang Shi took the case and handed it to Chijie, who knelt and placed it in front of the throne.
The ministers sat down.
Tai Le ordered him to kneel down and play the "Shiju Music".
In the Tai Palace, the dining table for hundreds of officials was filled with food.
After eating, Tai Le ordered me to kneel down and play, "Please come in."
The pieces are played in sequence.
The advocating order came forward and knelt down to play, please recommend everyone's talents in order.
So the officials in charge of registers in each county were summoned to the front to accept the emperor's order at the foot of the stairs.
After the banquet and music were over, a visitor knelt down and played, "Please leave the court and rest."
The bells and drums played, and the ministers faced north and knelt down twice before leaving the palace.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
然则，夜漏未尽七刻谓之晨贺。昼漏上三刻更出，百官奉寿酒，谓之昼会。
别置女乐三十人于黄帐外，奏房中之歌。
江左多虞，不复晨贺。
夜漏未尽十刻，开宣阳门，至平旦始开殿门，昼漏上五刻，皇帝乃出受贺。
皇太子出会者，则在三恪下王公上。
正旦元会，设白兽樽于殿庭，樽盖上施白兽，若有能献直言者，则发此樽饮酒。
案礼，白兽樽乃杜举之遗式也，为白兽盖，是后代所为，示忌惮也。
魏制，籓王不得朝觐。
魏明帝时，有朝者皆由特恩，不得以为常。
及泰始中，有司奏： 诸侯之国，其王公以下入朝者，四方各为二番，三岁而周，周则更始。
若临时有故，却在明年。
明年来朝之后，更满三岁乃复朝，不得违本数。
translation: 
Then when the timer reaches less than seven quarters at night, it is called morning congratulations, and when the timer reaches three quarters during the day, it is called a day meeting when hundreds of officials serve longevity wine.
In addition, thirty female musicians were arranged to play Chinese music outside the yellow tent.
The Yangtze River is unsettled, and there are no more morning greetings.
When the timer reaches less than ten quarters at night, the Xuanyang Gate is opened, and the palace door is not opened until early in the morning. When the timer reaches five quarters during the day, the emperor does not come out to accept congratulations.
The people the Crown Prince came out to meet included people who were descendants of the previous three dynasties and were named princes and nobles above the prince level.
During the New Year's Day gathering, a wine vessel called a white tiger bottle was set up in the palace lobby, with a white tiger painted on the cover. If someone could speak out and give advice, he would open the bottle and drink.
According to the etiquette, the white tiger bottle is left over from the ritual of toasting after the banquet. The white tiger cover is made into a white tiger bottle and is a matter for future generations, which expresses fearlessness.
Under the system of the Wei Dynasty, kings of vassal states could not meet the emperor.
During the reign of Emperor Wei Ming, those who came to court had special permission and could not be regarded as routine.
During the Taishi period, the relevant officials reported: From all the princes and countries, those who came to the palace to pay homage to the princes and below were to go to the east, west, north, and south twice for a round. Three years later, there was one round, and after one week, it started again.
If something happens temporarily, the meeting will be continued in the second year.
After the second court meeting, you can only come to the DPRK again after three years, and you cannot violate the regulations on the number of court visits.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
朝礼皆亲执璧，如旧朝之制。
不朝之岁，各遣卿奉聘。
奏可。
江左王侯不之国，其有受任居外，则同方伯刺史二千石之礼，亦无朝聘之制，故此礼遂废。
汉以高帝十月定秦，且为岁首。
至武帝，虽改用夏正，然每月朔朝，至于十月朔，犹常飨会。
其仪，夜漏未尽七刻，受贺及贽。公侯璧，中二千石、二千石羔，千石、六百石雁，四百石以下雉。
三公奉璧上殿御坐前，北面。
太常赞曰 皇帝为君兴 。
三公伏。
皇帝坐，乃前进璧。
百官皆贺，二千石以上上殿称万岁，举觞，御食，司徒奉羹，大司农奉饭，奏食举之乐。
百官受赐，宴飨，大作乐，如元正之仪。
魏晋则冬至日受方国及百僚称贺，因小会。
其仪亚于献岁之旦。
translation: 
The etiquette for court meetings is to hold the jade in person, just like the old court system.
In the years when they are not in court, they each send their ministers to visit and pay their respects.
The emperor is ready to play.
The princes east of the Yangtze River did not go to their own country. Some of them accepted appointments and lived in other places. Just like the etiquette of two thousand stones for the chief of a prince or the governor, there was no system for paying court and greetings, so this etiquette was invalid.
In the Han Dynasty, because Emperor Gao pacified the Qin Dynasty in October, we tentatively set October as the beginning of the year.
When Emperor Wu arrived, although the first month of the Xia Dynasty was adopted as the beginning of the year, there were still banquets on the first day of every month, and on the first day of October, there were still banquets.
The etiquette of the banquet is that within seven quarters of the night, congratulations and gifts are received. The princes present jade, two thousand stones for lambs, two thousand stones for geese, and four hundred stones or less for wild geese.
The third prince went up to the palace with the jade in his hands and went to the throne, facing north.
Taichang announced that the emperor stood up for the three princes.
The third prince fell to his knees.
The emperor sat down and stepped forward to offer the jade.
All the officials congratulated him, and more than two thousand stones went to the palace to shout long live and raise their glasses. When the meal is served, the apprentice holds the soup, and the big farmer holds the rice, and plays music to serve the meal.
The officials accepted the rewards, the banquet began, and music was played loudly, just like the ceremony on the first day of the first lunar month.
Wei and Jin received congratulations from the four princes and officials at all levels on the winter solstice, and held small court gatherings.
The scale of court etiquette is second only to New Year's Day.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
古者帝王莫不巡狩。
魏文帝值天下三分，方隅多事，皇舆亟动，役无宁岁，盖应时之务，非旧章也。
明帝凡三东巡狩，所过存问高年，恤疾苦，或赐谷帛，有古巡幸之风焉。
齐王正始元年，巡洛阳县，赐高年力田各有差。
及武帝泰始四年，诏刺史二千石长吏曰： 古之王者，以岁时巡狩方岳，其次则二伯述职，不然则行人顺省。
故虽幽遐侧微，心无壅隔，下情上通，上指远谕，至于鳏寡，罔不得所，用垂风遗烈，休声犹存。
朕在位累载，如临深川，夙兴夕惕，明发不寝，坐而待旦，思四方水旱灾眚，为之怛然。
勤躬约己，欲令事事当宜。
translation: 
In ancient times, there were no emperors who did not patrol the territory.
During the reign of Emperor Wei Wen, the world was divided into three parts, and border wars were frequent. The emperor's chariots were frequently dispatched, and no year was peaceful. They were probably dealing with immediate events, and were not based on the laws of the previous dynasties.
Emperor Ming visited the east three times in total. He visited the old people and provided relief to the poor in the places he passed. Sometimes he gave grain and silk as rewards, just like the ancient emperors during their inspection tours.
In the first year of his reign, Man Gong visited Luoyang County and gave different rewards to the elderly and local farm officials.
In the fourth year of Emperor Wu's reign, he issued an edict to the two thousand chief officials of the governor, saying: In ancient times, emperors inspected the mountains in all directions every year, and then the leaders of the two princes in the east and west reported their duties, or else they sent envoys to inspect.
Therefore, even the remote and subtle things are not kept in the dark. The situation below is grasped by the above, and the will of the above is known from afar. The men and women who have become widowed have all found their destination. Therefore, the customs and achievements passed down, and the good reputation have been preserved to this day.
I have been on the throne for several years, and I feel like I am standing in front of a deep valley. I get up early, be greedy for darkness, and be wary of fear. I can't fall asleep at dawn. I sit and wait for dawn, worrying about natural and man-made disasters in all directions, and I feel sad about it.
Self-encouragement, self-discipline, and hope that everything will be done properly.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
常恐众吏用情，诚心未著，万机兼猥，虑有不周，政刑失谬，而弗获备览。
百姓有过，在予一人。
惟岁之不易，未遑卜征巡省之事，下之未乂，其何以恤之。
今使使持节侍中副给事黄门侍郎衔命四出，周行天下，亲见刺史二千石长吏，申谕朕心，访求得失损益诸宜，观省政教，问人间患苦。
周典有之曰： 其万姓之利害为一书，其礼俗政事刑禁之逆顺为一书，其暴乱作慝犯令为一书，其札丧凶荒厄贫为一书，其康乐和亲安平为一书，每国辨异之，以返命于王。 旧章前训，今率由之。
还具条奏，俾朕昭然鉴于幽远，若亲行焉。
大夫君子，其各悉乃心，敬乃事，嘉言令图，苦言至戒，与使者尽之，无所隐讳。
方将虑心以俟，其勉哉勖之，称朕意焉。
新礼，巡狩方岳，柴望告设壝宫如礼。
translation: 
I often worry that officials are emotional and unable to show sincerity, state affairs are complicated and insufficiently considered, and there are political and legal errors, but I cannot see them all.
The people are at fault, and the responsibility lies with me.
It's just that the years are hard, and there is no time to take care of inspections. The people are not stable, so how can we sympathize with them?
Now I am sending an envoy, the deputy minister Huangmen, to accept the mission and set out in all directions, traveling all over the world, personally meeting with the governor's two thousand officials, clarifying my mind, visiting and searching for the pros and cons of things, investigating political enlightenment, and asking about the sufferings of the world.
The classics of the Zhou Dynasty say: A book is written about the benefits and harms to the people; a book is written about the people's etiquette, political affairs, and whether punishments and prohibitions are reasonable; a book is written about riots, evil, and violations of laws; a book is written about epidemics, deaths, famines, and poverty; a book about health, happiness, harmony, and peace is written.
I also prepared articles and memorials, so that I could draw from ancient times as clearly as if I were doing it myself.
Great men and gentlemen, each do your best, concentrate on your affairs, good strategies and plans, harsh words and warnings, all tell the messenger, do not hide anything.
I am humbly waiting for your opinions, please work hard to satisfy my wishes.
The new etiquette, including patrolling the mountains in all directions, burning firewood to offer sacrifices to heaven, looking at mountains and rivers, and reporting on the establishment of palaces, are all the same as those in the past.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
诸侯之觐者，宾及执贽皆如朝仪，而不建旗。
挚虞以为： 觐礼，诸侯觐天子，各建其旗。
旗章所以殊爵命，示等威。
《诗》称 君子至止，言观其旗 。
宜定新礼，建旗如旧礼。
诏可其议。
然终晋代，其礼不行。
封禅之说，经典无闻。
礼有因天事天，因地事地，因名山升中于天，而凤皇降，龟龙格。
天子所以巡狩，至于方岳，燔柴祭天，以告其成功，事似而非也。
谶纬诸说皆云，王者封泰山，禅梁甫，易姓纪号。
秦汉行其典，前史各陈其制矣。
魏文帝黄初中，护军蒋济奏曰： 夫帝王大礼，巡狩为先；昭祖扬祢，封禅为首。
translation: 
When the princes met with the emperor, the guests and gift recipients were treated as if they were at court, without flags.
Zhiyu believes: In the etiquette of court meetings, when princes meet the emperor, they each set up their own flags.
The round shape of the flag is used to distinguish the title and show the majesty of the rank.
The Book of Songs says: When a gentleman arrives, he observes his flag.
A new liturgy should be instituted and flags set up as in the ancient liturgy.
The emperor wrote a letter to Shao agreeing with him.
However, this etiquette was not implemented until the end of the Jin Dynasty.
Feng Hui's statement cannot be found in the classics.
In the ritual system, there are sacrifices to heaven for the things in the sky, and sacrifices to the earth for the things on the earth. Because the sacrifice to the sky on famous mountains is successful, the phoenix descends and the turtle and dragon arrive.
The emperor patrolled the territory, went to famous mountains in all directions, burned firewood to worship heaven, and reported success in business. The things were similar but different.
The prophecies and other theories that predict good and bad fortunes all say that the emperor worshiped heaven at Mount Tai, worshiped earth at Liangfu, and changed the dynasty and country title.
Qin and Mo implemented the Yi ceremony, and the history books of the previous dynasties each described the ceremony system.
During the Taihe period of Emperor Wei Ming, Jiang Ji, the guardian of the army, reported: Among the emperor's grand ceremonies, going out for patrols was ranked first; the ceremony of announcing ancestors and gods and offering sacrifices to heaven and earth was ranked first.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
是以自古革命受符，未有不蹈梁父，登泰山，刊无竟之名，纪天人之际者也。
故司马相如谓有文以来，七十二君，或顺所繇于前，谨遗教于后。
太史公曰，主上有圣明而不宣布，有司之过也。
然则元功懿德，不刊梁山之石，无以显帝王之功，示兆庶不朽之观也。
语曰， 当君而叹尧舜之美，譬犹人子对厥所生而誉他人之父 。
今大魏承百王之弊乱，拯流遁之艰厄，接千载之衰绪，继百代之废业。
始自武文，至于圣躬，所以参成天地之道，纲维人神之化。
上天报应，嘉瑞显祥，以比往古，无所取喻。
至于历世迄今，未废大礼。
虽志在扫尽残盗，荡涤余秽，未遑斯事。
translation: 
Therefore, since ancient times, when dynasties changed and people accepted the destiny, there was no one who did not go to Liangfu, no one who did not climb Mount Tai, no one who did not write down his name that will be passed down forever, and no one who did not fail to record the moment when heaven and man meet.
Therefore, Sima Xiangru said that since the beginning of written records, some of the seventy-two generations of kings have followed the laws of the previous generations, and some have left teachings for future generations.
Tai Shigong said that it was the fault of the officials that the emperor had sage ideas but did not announce them.
So if the beautiful virtues of the original creation are not inscribed on the stones of Liangshan, it will not be able to show the emperor's achievements and show the immortal scenery to all the people.
The proverb says that praising the virtues of Yao and Shun in front of the king is like a son praising someone else's father in front of his biological father.
Today, the Wei Dynasty inherited the shortcomings and chaos of the feudal feudal regimes, saved the country from the hardships of exile, inherited the decline of the past millennium, and continued the neglected cause of a hundred generations.
Starting from Emperor Wu and Emperor Wen, and ending with the Emperor himself, we have therefore referred to the achievement of morality and justice in heaven and earth and the upholding of the enlightenment of the gods.
God's retribution presents an auspicious scene. Compared with ancient times, there is no similar example.
As for how many generations have passed until now, no big ceremony has been held.
Perhaps it can be deduced that his ambition is to wipe out the remaining thieves and clean up the remaining filth, and he has no energy to take care of this matter.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
若尔，三苗屈强于江海，大舜当废东巡之仪；徐夷跳梁于淮泗，周成当止岱岳之礼。
且去岁破吴虏于江汉，今兹屠蜀贼于陇右，其震荡内溃，在不复淹，无累于封禅之事也。
此仪久废，非仓卒所定。
宜下公卿，广撰其礼，卜年考时，昭告上帝，以副天下之望。
臣待罪军旅，不胜大愿，冒死以闻。
诏曰： 闻蒋济斯言，使吾汗出流足。
自开辟以来，封禅者七十余君耳。
故太史公曰，虽有受命之君，而功有不洽，是以中间旷远者千有馀年，近者数百载，其仪阙不可得记。
吾何德之修，敢庶兹乎！
济岂谓世无管仲，以吾有桓公登泰山之志乎！
吾不欺天也。
济之所言，华则华矣，非助我者也。
公卿侍中尚书常侍省之而已，勿复有所议，亦不须答诏也。
天子虽距济议，而实使高堂隆草封禅之仪，以天下未一，不欲便行大礼，会隆卒，不复行之。
translation: 
If that is the case, if Sanmiao is disobedient by the Yangtze River, Shun should abolish the ritual of patrolling. If Xu Yi is tyrannical in Huaisi, King Sheng of Zhou should abolish the ritual of patrolling Daiyue.
Besides, last year's defeat of Wu at the Han River in the Zujiang River, and this year's defeat of the Shu army in Longxi, the shock and defeat to the enemy was incomparable, and it would not affect Feng Chan's affairs.
This etiquette has been abandoned for a long time and cannot be determined in a short time.
It should be left to the minister to write out this etiquette in a comprehensive way, and to predict the year and moment through divination, so that it can be announced to heaven so that the people of the world can be satisfied.
I was serving in the military and could not fulfill this big wish, so I risked my life to express my thoughts.
The edict said: Hearing Jiang Ji's words made me sweat down to my feet.
Since the beginning of the world, more than seventy monarchs have been granted the title of Zen.
Therefore, Tai Shigong said that although there are kings who accept the destiny of heaven, their achievements cannot be spread everywhere, so they have been neglected for more than a thousand years in the middle and hundreds of years in the recent ones. This etiquette defect has not been recorded.
What virtue do I have to dare to do this?
Does it mean that there is no such thing in the world, but I have the ambition to climb Tongshan Mountain!
I dare not deceive God.
What Jiang Ji said is beautiful, but it doesn't help me.
It is enough for the Minister of Public Affairs, Chang Shu, to read it. There is no need to discuss the matter any more, and there is no need to reply to this edict.
Although the emperor rejected Jiang Ji's memorial, he actually sent Zhitanglong to draft the etiquette of the sealing ceremony. Since the world was not unified, he did not want to hold a grand ceremony soon. When Gao Tanglong died, the matter was dropped.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
及武帝平吴，混一区宇，太康元年九月庚寅，尚书令卫瓘、尚书左仆射山涛、右仆射魏舒、尚书刘寔、司空张华等奏曰： 臣闻肇自生灵，则有后辟，年载之数，莫之能纪。
立德济世，挥扬仁风，以登封泰山者七十有四家，其谥号可知者十有四焉。
沈沦寂寞，曾无遗声者，不可胜记。
大晋之德，始自重黎，实佐颛顼，至于夏商，世序天地。
其在于周，不失其绪。
金德将升，世济明圣，外平蜀汉，海内归心，武功之盛，实由文德。
至于陛下，受命践阼，弘建大业，群生仰流。
惟独江湖沅湘之表，凶桀负固，历代不宾。
神谋独断，命将出讨，兵威暂加，数旬荡定。
羁其鲸鲵，赦其罪逆，云覆雨施，八方来同，声教所被，达于四极。
虽黄轩遐征，大禹远略，周之奕世，何以尚今！
translation: 
When Emperor Wu pacified Wu and unified the country, in the ninth month of the first year of Taikang, Shangshu ordered Wei Xuan, Shangshu Zuopushe Shantao, Shangshu Youpushe Wei Shu, Shangshu Liu Sai, Sikong Zhanghua and others to report: We heard that since the beginning of mankind, there have been princes, but the number of years cannot be recorded.
To establish virtue, save the world, and promote benevolence and righteousness, there are seventy-four families who have climbed Mount Tai for this purpose, and there are fourteen people who know their names.
Their names and deeds were lost, and there were too many to remember without leaving any reputation.
The virtues of the Jin Dynasty began with Chong Li, who assisted Zhuan Xu, and by the Xia and Shang Dynasties, a system of inheritance from generation to generation was established in heaven and earth.
In the Zhou Dynasty, there was no stopping building meritorious deeds.
Jin's virtue increased, and the people in the world helped the Mingsheng, and the Shu Han was pacified externally. Within the four seas, people's hearts turned to Jin, and military victory actually relied on virtue.
When he arrived at your majesty, he was appointed by fate to receive the throne and expand his great cause. The people admired and followed him.
Only along the Yangtze River, Dongting Lake, Yuan River, and Xiang River, there are thugs who have relied on natural dangers and have been disobedient for generations.
His Majesty's miraculous strategic judgment ordered the army to go out for a crusade. As soon as the army showed its power, it was wiped out and pacified in dozens of days.
Binding evil people and pardoning their transgressions, clouds flowing, rain spreading, gathering around us from all directions, the influence of reputation and education reaches all parts of the world.
Even Huang Xuan's conquests, Yu the Great's far-reaching strategies, and the prosperity of the Zhou Dynasty could not exceed today's!


Chunk 12: 
original: 
若夫玄石素文，底号前载，象以数表，言以事告，虽古《河图洛书》之徵，不是过也。
宜宣大典，礼中岳，封泰山，禅梁父，发德号，明至尊，享天休，笃黎庶，勒千载之表，播流后之声，俾百世之下，莫不兴起。
斯帝王之盛业，天人之至望也。
诏曰： 今逋寇虽殄，外则障塞有警，内则百姓未宁，此盛德之事，所未议也。
瓘等又奏曰： 今东渐于海，西被流沙，大漠之阴，日南北户，莫不通属，芒芒禹迹，今实过之。
天人之道已周，巍巍之功已著，宜修礼地祗，登封泰山，致诚上帝，以答人神之愿也。
乞如前奏。
诏曰： 今阴阳未和，刑政未当，百姓未得其所，岂可以勒功告成邪！
诏不许。
瓘等又奏曰： 臣闻处帝王之位者，必有历运之期，天命之应；济兆庶之功者，必有盛德之容，告成之典。
translation: 
As for the writings on stone tablets that promote the way of saints, they are famous for their records in previous generations. They use numbers to represent objects and events to illustrate speeches. Even the ancient Hetu Luoshu does not show any signs beyond this.
We should hold grand ceremonies, salute at Zhongyue, sacrifice to heaven and earth at Mount Tai and Liangfu, issue orders to promote virtue, clarify the most noble position, enjoy blessings from heaven, treat the people sincerely, carve a mark for thousands of years, and spread a reputation that will be passed down to future generations, so that no one will not be inspired by it for a hundred generations.
This is the grand cause of the emperor and the greatest wish of God and man.
The edict said: Although the fleeing enemy invaders have been eliminated, there is still an alarm for the external blockage, and the people inside are still uneasy. There should be no discussion about the deeds of great virtue.
Wei Cui and others reported again: "Now it reaches the sea and the desert in the west. In the north of the desert, there is no one in the north and south who does not come to submit. The vast territory of Dayu's time has indeed been passed."
The moral relationship between heaven and man has been completed, and Weiwei's achievements have been established. It is time to formulate etiquette for the earth gods, climb Mount Tai to offer sacrifices, and express sincerity to heaven in order to repay the desire to enter the gods.
Begging to act according to the previous memorial.
The edict said: Nowadays, yin and yang have not been reconciled, criminal laws and government decrees are not yet appropriate, and the people have not yet returned to their destination, how can they write down their own deeds and report success!
The edict does not allow it.
Wei Cui and others reported again: We have heard that those who are in the position of emperors must have the spirit of heaven and must adapt to the destiny; those who have made achievements in helping the people must have a grand and virtuous appearance, and have a ceremony to report success to heaven.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
无不可诬，有不敢让，自古道也。
而明诏谦冲，屡辞其礼，虽盛德攸在，推而未居。
夫三公职典天地，实掌人物，国之大事，取议于此。
故汉氏封禅，非是官也，不在其事。
臣等前奏，盖陈祖考之功，天命又应，陛下之德，合同四海，迹古考今，宜修此礼。
至于克定岁月，须五府上议，然后奏闻。
诏曰： 虽荡清江表，皆临事者之劳，何足以告成。
方望群后思隆大化，以宁区夏，百姓获乂，与之休息。
斯朕日夜之望，无所复下诸府矣。
瓘等又奏： 臣闻唐虞三代济世弘功之君，莫不仰承天休，俯协人志，登介丘，履梁父，未有辞焉者，盖不可让也。
translation: 
You can't cheat if you don't have merit, and you can't be humble if you have merit. This has been the truth since ancient times.
However, the edict showed humility and repeatedly declined the ceremony of conferring Zen status. Although there was virtue, he declined without taking credit.
The duty of the Three Gongs is to be in charge of heaven and earth. In fact, they are in charge of people and national affairs, and draw opinions from them.
Therefore, in the Han Dynasty, if someone was granted the title of Zen, he would not be responsible for this matter unless he had this official position.
Our previous memorials mainly stated the achievements of our ancestors, and in compliance with the destiny of heaven, His Majesty's virtues gathered together from all over the world. We speculated that the ancient times and the present should be revised, and this etiquette should be revised.
As for the determination of the year and month, it must be discussed by the Taiwei, Taifu, Situ, Sikong, General, etc., and then reported.
The edict stated: Although the south of the Yangtze River was pacified by the raids, the credit was due to those involved and was not enough to report success to heaven.
It is hoped that the princes of all countries will consider Guangda Enlightenment to stabilize the Central Plains, so that the people can gain peace and allow them to rest and recuperate.
This is my wish from morning to night, and I have nothing else to answer for you.
Wei Cui and others reported again: We have heard that the kings of the three dynasties of Tang and Yu who made great achievements in saving the world, all of them obeyed the will of heaven, coordinated the will of the people below, climbed mountains, went to Liangfu, and did not refuse to do things, probably they cannot refuse.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
今陛下勋高百王，德无与二，茂绩宏规，巍巍之业，固非臣等所能究论。
而圣旨劳谦，屡自抑损，时至弗应，推美不居，阙皇代之上仪，塞灵祗之款望，何以使大晋之典谟，同风于三五？
臣等诚不敢奉诏，请如前奏施行。
诏曰： 方当共思弘道，以康庶绩，且俟他年，无所复纷纭也。
王公有司又奏： 自古圣明，光宅四海，封禅名山，著于史籍，作者七十四君矣。
舜禹之有天下也，巡狩四岳，躬行其道。
《易》著观俗省方，《礼》有升中于天，《诗》颂陟其高山，皆载在方策。
文王为西伯以服事殷，周公以鲁籓列于诸侯，或享于岐山，或有事泰山，徒以圣德，犹得为其事。
自是以来，功薄而僭其义者，不可胜数。号谥不泯，以至于今。
translation: 
Nowadays, His Majesty’s meritorious service exceeds that of a hundred kings, and his virtue is unmatched. His magnificent achievements and outstanding career are certainly not something that we can clearly comment on.
However, the imperial edict was too modest, repeatedly self-deprecating, not responding when the time came, and giving up good names without taking credit, which caused major ceremonial deficiencies in the dynasty and blocked the ardent hopes of the gods, making the laws of the Jin Dynasty different from those of the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors.
We really dare not follow the edict. Please implement it according to the previous memorial.
The edict said: Now is the time to jointly consider the promotion of great righteousness and improve various achievements. Let’s wait until later. I have nothing to reply to the various claims.
The princes and relevant officials reported again: Since ancient times, the sage emperors have spread their glory all over the world. They have worshiped heaven and earth at famous mountains. There are seventy-four kings recorded in historical records.
After Shun Yu gained control of the world, he patrolled the mountains in all directions and personally implemented their moral principles.
The "Book of Changes" records the investigation of customs in the four directions, the "Li" records climbing famous mountains to report success to heaven, and the "Book of Songs" praises mountain climbing for sacrifices. All are recorded in historical policies.
King Wen of Zhou worked for Yin as the Western Bodhisattva. Duke Zhou only owned one Lu among the vassal states. They either offered sacrifices to heaven at Qishan Mountain or enshrined Zen in Tongshan. By virtue of virtue alone, they could do so.
Since then, there have been countless people who did not have enough merit but went beyond the etiquette to become Zen. Their names have not been lost and have been passed down to this day.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
况高祖宣皇帝肇开王业，海外有截；世宗景皇帝济以大功，辑宁区夏；太祖文皇帝受命造晋，荡定蜀汉；陛下应期龙兴，混一六合，泽被群生，威震无外。
昔汉氏失统，吴蜀鼎峙，兵兴以来，近将百年，地险俗殊，人望绝塞。
今不羁之寇，二代而平，非聪明神武，先天弗违，孰能巍巍其有成功若兹者欤！
臣等幸以千载得遭运会，亲服大化，目睹太平，至公至美，谁与为让。
请告太常，具礼仪复上。 诏曰： 所议诚列代之盛事也，然方今未可以尔。 便报绝之。
哀帝即位，欲尊崇章皇太妃。
桓温议宜称太夫人。
translation: 
What's more, Emperor Gaozu Xuan created the imperial career and unified the overseas; Emperor Shizong Jing assisted the great achievements and brought peace to China; Emperor Taizu Wen accepted the destiny and founded the Jin Dynasty, wiped out and pacified the Shu Han; His Majesty responded to the way of heaven and raised a new dynasty, unified the world and the four corners of the world, spread his blessings to the people, and was powerful in all directions.
In the past, the Han Dynasty lost its laws and regulations and was at odds with the three kingdoms of Wu and Shu. Since the war began, it has been nearly a hundred years. The terrain has been difficult and the customs have been different, and the people's wishes have been cut off.
Nowadays, the unfettered enemy invaders have been pacified in two generations. If they are not clever and brave, and follow the original intention of God, who can achieve such great achievements!
We are fortunate enough to have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, to personally experience this great change, to witness peace, justice and beauty to the extreme. Who should we pass it on to?
We should follow the instructions sent by the previous dynasties and imitate the ancient times. We should carve stones on Mount Tai to record our achievements, climb mountains to report successes to heaven, promote the system of rituals and music, correct the regulations of sacrificial places, make our name famous for generations, and honor our ancestors. Therefore, I risk my life to report this endless wish to the emperor. Please tell Taichang and prepare the etiquette. The emperor also issued an edict saying: What is discussed is indeed a grand event of the past dynasties, but it cannot be implemented at present. This matter will not be mentioned again.
Emperor Ai came to the throne and wanted to respect Princess Zhang.
Huan Wen thought that she should be called Tai Madam.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
尚书仆射江议曰： 虞舜体仁孝之性，尽事亲之礼，贵为天王，富有四海，而瞽叟无立锥之地，一级之爵。
蒸蒸之心，昊天罔极，宁当忍父卑贱，不以徽号显之，岂不以子无爵父之道，理穷义屈，靡所厝情者哉！
《春秋经》曰 纪季姜归于京师 ，《传》曰 父母之于子，虽为天王后，犹曰吾季姜 ，言子尊不加父母也。
或以为子尊不加父母，则武王何以追王太王、王季、文王乎？
周之三王，德配天地，王迹之兴，自此始也。
是以武王仰寻前绪，遂奉天命，追崇祖考，明不以子尊加父母也。
案《礼》 幼不诔长，贱不诔贵 ，幼贱犹不得表彰长贵，况敢锡之以荣命邪！
汉祖感家令之言而尊太公，荀悦以为孝莫大于严父，而以子贵加之父母，家令之言过矣。
爰逮孝章，不上贾贵人以尊号，而厚其金宝币帛，非子道之不至也，盖圣典不可逾也。
translation: 
Shangshu Pushe Jiangbu commented: Yu Shun pursued the nature of benevolence and filial piety and devoted himself to the etiquette of serving his relatives. As a result, he obtained the noble status of the King of Heaven and became rich all over the world. But Gusou had no place to establish himself and no title.
A heart of filial piety fills the sky. She would rather endure her father's low status than use a badge to make him prominent. Isn't it because there is no reason for a son to knight his father, which makes no sense in terms of logic and cannot express his family affection?
"Spring and Autumn Classic" says that Ji Jijiang married into the capital, and "Biography" says that for parents, even though their daughter is the Queen of Heaven, she still calls her "Ji Jijiang". This means that the dignity of the daughter will not affect the parents.
Some people think that if the dignity of children does not affect their parents, then why did King Wu give additional titles to King Tai, Wang Ji, and King Wen?
The virtues of the three kings of the Zhou Dynasty matched those of heaven and earth, and the rise of the emperor's deeds began from that time.
Therefore, King Wu admired and pursued the achievements of previous generations, so according to the destiny, he added a king's title to respect his ancestors, indicating that it was not because of the son's honor that it affected the parents.
According to "Li", the young cannot give eulogies to praise the elders, the lowly ones cannot make eulogies to praise the noble ones, and the young and lowly people cannot commend the older and noble ones, so how dare they give them honorary titles!
Mozu revered the Grand Duke because he understood the words in the family motto. Xun Yue believed that there was no greater filial piety than respecting the father, so he applied the son's noble status to his parents. The words in the family motto were wrong.
As for the filial piety chapter, you don't need to buy a noble person with a distinguished title, but give more gold, silver, coins, silk and silk. It's not that a son fails to fulfill his filial piety, it's because the saint's code cannot be exceeded.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
当春秋时，庶子承国，其母得为夫人。
不审直子命母邪，故当告于宗祧以先君之命命之邪？
窃见诏书，当临轩拜授贵人为皇太妃。
今称皇帝策命命贵人，斯则子爵母也。
贵人北面拜受，斯则母臣子也。
天尊地卑，名位定矣，母贵子贱，人伦序矣。
虽欲加崇贵人，而实卑之；虽显明国典，而实废之。
且人主举动，史必书之。
如当载之方策，以示后世，无乃不顺乎！
窃谓应告显宗之庙，称贵人仁淑之至，宜加殊礼，以酬鞠育之惠。
奉先灵之命，事不在己。
妃后虽是配君之名，然自后以下有夫人九嫔，无称妃焉。
桓公谓宜进号太夫人，非不允也。
如以夫人为少，可言皇太夫人。
皇，君也，君太夫人于名礼顺矣。
translation: 
In the Spring and Autumn Period, when a concubine inherited the throne, his mother could be called Madam.
Is it possible that we should not be cautious when conferring titles on mothers because of our sons? Should we report to the ancestors of the ancestral temple and grant titles based on the orders of the previous monarchs?
I think the edict should go to court and confer the honorable lady as the Crown Princess.
Nowadays, when the emperor orders nobles to be conferred titles, it means that the son is conferring titles on his mother.
If a nobleman faces north and kneels before receiving a title, it means that the mother has become her son's minister.
Heaven is superior and earth is inferior, this is stipulated by fame and position, mother is noble and son is humble, this is the order of human relations.
Although it is intended to make the noble status higher, it actually makes her lower; although the national code is clarified, it is actually abolished.
Moreover, every move of the king must be recorded by the historian.
If the recorded policies and strategies were shown to future generations, it would probably not go well!
I think it should be reported to the temple of Sutra, saying that noble people are extremely benevolent and virtuous, and should use special etiquette to repay the kindness of upbringing.
According to the order of the ancestor's spirit, the matter does not depend on oneself.
Although the concubine and empress are the names of the monarch's spouses, there are wives and nine concubines starting from the empress, and none of them are called concubines.
It is not unfair for Duke Huan to say that the title should be promoted to Tai Fu.
If you think the title of Madam is not enough, you can call her the Crown Princess.
Huang means the king, and the king and his wife both make sense in terms of name and etiquette.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
帝特下诏拜皇太妃。
三月丙辰，使兼太保王恬授玺绶仪服，一如太后。
又诏曰： 朝臣不为太妃敬，为合礼不？
太常江逌议： 位号不极，不应尽敬。
孝武追崇会稽郑太妃为简文太后，诏问 当开墓不 。
王珣答： 据三祖追赠及中宗敬后，并不开墓位，更为茔域制度耳。
褚太后临朝时，议褚裒进见之典。
蔡谟、王彪之并以： 虞舜、汉高祖犹执子道，况后乎！
王者父无拜礼。
尚书八座议以为： 纯子则王道缺，纯臣则孝道亏。
谓公庭如臣，私觌则严父为允。
汉魏故事，皇太子称臣。
新礼以太子既以子为名，而又称臣，臣子兼称，于义不通，除太子称臣之制。
挚虞以为： 《孝经》 资于事父以事君 ，义兼臣子，则不嫌称臣，宜定新礼皇太子称臣如旧。
诏从之。
translation: 
The emperor specially sent a letter to Shao to worship the imperial concubine.
On Bingchen in March, Wang Tian, ​​the eunuch and Taibao, was awarded the jade seal ribbon and ceremonial clothes, which were exactly the same as those of the Queen Mother.
He also issued an edict saying: The court minister did not show respect to the concubine. Is this in line with etiquette?
Taichang Jiang Di commented: If the status and title are not the highest, the greatest respect should not be paid.
Emperor Xiaowu posthumously awarded Concubine Zheng of Kuaiji the title of Empress Dowager Jianwen to show his respect, and issued an edict asking whether a tomb should be established.
Wang Shi replied: According to the three generations of ancestors who followed Zhongzong Jing, no tombs were opened, so we just need to change the cemetery system.
When the Empress Dowager Chu was managing the affairs of the court, she discussed the etiquette when entering the palace.
Ji Wang and Wang Biao both thought: Lu Ling, Huan Zi still followed the way of being a son, let alone the Queen Mother!
There is no etiquette for visiting the emperor's father.
The discussion of the eight officials including Shangshu held that: To strictly follow the rules of being a child is detrimental to kingship, and to completely follow the rules of monarchs and ministers is detrimental to filial piety.
In the court, you are like a king and a minister, and when you meet in private, you are respectful to your father. This is fair.
The precedent in Han and Wei is that the crown prince declares his vassalage to the emperor.
Xinli believes that since the prince is named after the son and is also called a minister, it is unreasonable to have two titles: minister and son, so the system of the prince calling himself a minister should be abolished.
Zhiyu believes: "The Classic of Filial Piety" states that to serve the king as one would serve one's father, it is both a minister and a son, so there is nothing wrong with calling him a minister. New etiquette should be formulated, and the crown prince should call his ministers as before.
Shaoshu complied.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
太宁三年三月戊辰，明帝立皇子衍为皇太子。
癸巳，诏曰： 礼无生而贵者，故帝元子方之于士。
而汉魏以来，尊崇储贰，使官属称臣，朝臣咸拜，此甚无谓。
吾昔在东宫，未及启革。
今衍幼冲之年，便臣先达，将令日习所见，谓之自然，此岂可以教之邪！
主者其下公卿内外通议，使必允礼中。
尚书令卞壸议以为： 《周礼》王后太子不会，明礼同于君，皆所以重储贰，异正嫡。
苟奉之如君，不得不拜矣。
太子若存谦冲，故宜答拜。
臣以为皇太子之立，郊告天地，正位储宫，岂得同之皇子揖让而已。
谓宜稽则汉魏，阖朝同拜。
从之。
太元中，尚书符问王公已下见皇太子仪及所衣服。
侍中领国子博士车胤议： 朝臣宜硃衣褠帻，拜敬，太子答拜。
案经传不见其文，故太傅羊祜笺庆太子，称叩头死罪，此则拜之证也。
又太宁三年诏议其典，尚书卞壸谓宜稽则汉魏，阖朝同拜。
其硃衣冠冕，惟施之天朝，宜褠帻而已。
朝议多同。
太元十二年，议二王后与太子先后。
translation: 
In Wuchen, March of the third year of Taining, Emperor Ming made Prince Sima Yan the crown prince.
Guisi, Shaoshu says: According to the rites, no one is born noble, so the emperor's eldest son is equal to a scholar.
However, since the Han and Wei Dynasties, the crown prince has been respected, officials have been called ministers to him, and court ministers have paid homage to him. This is very unfounded.
I used to be in Shugong and didn't have time to reform.
Now that Sima Yan is young, ministers who are good at flattering have come to him first and will make him get used to what he sees day by day and think that it is all natural. Is this something that can educate him?
The person in charge discussed it with the ministers and officials inside and outside, so that the matter must comply with etiquette.
Shangshu Ling Bian Yi commented that: "The Rites of Zhou" states that the queen and the prince do not meet the emperor, which shows that the etiquette system is the same as that of the monarch, both to respect the crown prince and to distinguish the eldest son of the royal family from others.
For now, I have to serve the prince like a king and have to bow to him.
If the prince is humble, he should pay his respects.
I think the establishment of the crown prince, the sacrifices and reports to heaven and earth, and the rightful position as crown prince, how can it be equivalent to meeting the prince as guest and host?
The rules of Mo and Wei should be preserved and the whole dynasty should worship together.
followed his advice.
During the Taiyuan period, Shangshu Fushu issued an official document inquiring about the etiquette and clothing worn by princes and princes when meeting the crown prince.
Che Yin, the official in charge of the Imperial Palace, discussed and said: The ministers of the imperial court should wear red robes and turbans and bow before the prince.
There is no such record in the scriptures. The former Taifu Yang Hu wrote a letter to congratulate the prince and said that kowtowing was a capital crime. This was evidence of kneeling and worshiping.
In addition, in the third year of Taining, an edict was issued to discuss this etiquette. Shangshu ordered Bian Yi to say that the rules of Han and Wei should be retained and the whole dynasty should worship together.
Wearing red clothes and crowns is only suitable for those in the imperial dynasty, so wearing a headscarf is enough.
Most of the discussions at the court were the same.
In the twelfth year of Taiyuan, there was a discussion about the status of the descendants of the two kings and the status of the prince.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
博士庾弘之及尚书参议，并以为： 陈留，国之上宾。
皇太子虽国之储贰，犹在臣位，陈留王坐应在太子上。
陈留王劢表称疾病积年，求放罢，诏礼官博士议之。
博士曹耽云： 劢为祭主而无执祭之期，宜与穆子、孟挚事同。
王彪之云： 二王之后，不宜轻致废立。
记传未见有已为君而疾病退罢者，当知古无此礼。
孟絷、穆子是方应为君，非陈留之比。
咸康四年，成帝临轩，遣使拜太傅、太尉、司空。
《仪注》，太乐宿悬于殿庭。
门下奏，非祭祀宴飨，则无设乐之制。
太常蔡谟议曰： 凡敬其事则备其礼，礼备则制有乐。
乐者，所以敬事而明义，非为耳目之娱，故冠亦用之，不惟宴飨。
宴飨之有乐，亦所以敬宾也。
故郤至使楚，楚子飨之，郤至辞曰： 不忘先君之好，贶之以大礼，重之以备乐。
translation: 
Doctor Yu Hongzhi and Shangshu participated in the discussion and both believed that Chen Liu was an honored guest of the country.
Although the crown prince is the crown prince of the country, he is still in the position of minister. King Chenliu should be ranked above the crown prince.
Sima Qin, the king of Chenliu, said that he had been ill for many years and asked to be dismissed. He ordered Dr. Li Guan to discuss the matter.
Doctor Cao Dan said: Sima Kan, as the master of sacrifices, did not preside over the date of the sacrifices, which should be the same as that of Mu Zi and Meng Ji.
Wang Biaozhi said: The descendants of the two kings should not be deposed easily.
There is no record in the biographies of anyone who had already become a king and retired due to illness. This shows that there was no such ritual system in ancient times.
Meng Ji and Mu Zi were about to become kings, which was different from the situation of King Chenliu.
In the fourth year of Xiankang's reign, Emperor Cheng went to the palace and sent envoys to pay homage to Taifu, Taiwei and Sikong.
"Notes on the Instrument", Tai Le is guarding the musical instrument in the palace.
Playing music in the courtyard is not a sacrificial banquet, so there is no system for setting up music.
Taichang Cai Mo commented: If things are done respectfully, the etiquette will be complete, and if the etiquette is complete, there will be a music system.
Music is used to show respect for things and to demonstrate principles, not for sensory pleasure. Therefore, music is also used in crown ceremonies, not just banquets.
There is music at the banquet, which is also used to show respect to the guests.
Therefore, Yu Zhi went to Chu as an envoy, and Chu Zi held a banquet in honor of him. Yu Zhi declined and said: "I will not forget the friendship of my previous monarchs, and gave me great etiquette and a full set of music. Judging from his words, we can know that there was music at the banquet."


Chunk 21: 
original: 
寻斯辞也，则宴乐之意可知矣。公侯大臣，人君所重，故御坐为起，在舆为下，言称伯舅。
《传》曰 国卿，君之贰也 ，是以命使之日，御亲临轩，百僚陪列，此即敬事之意也。
古者，天王飨下国之使，及命将帅，遣使臣，皆有乐。
故《诗序》曰： 皇皇者华，君遣使臣也。
又曰： 《采薇》以遣之，《出车》以劳还，《杕杜》以勤归。
皆作乐而歌之。今命大使，拜辅相，比于下国之臣，轻重殊矣。
轻诚有之，重亦宜然。
故谓临轩遣使，宜有金石之乐。
议奏从焉。
汉魏故事，王公群妾见于夫人，夫人不答拜。
新礼以为礼无不答，更制妃公侯夫人答妾拜。
挚虞以为： 礼，妾事女君如妇之事姑，妾服女君期，女君不报，则敬与妇同而又加贱也。
translation: 
Dukes and ministers are people who are highly valued by the king, so they stand up for them on the throne, get off the chariot for them, and call them uncle when speaking.
"The Biography" says that the minister of state is the deputy of the monarch, so he appoints the son of the envoy. The emperor came to the palace in person, and hundreds of officials accompanied him in the procession, which meant that he was respectful to the matter.
In ancient times, music was used when the king of heaven hosted banquets to entertain envoys from vassal states, appointed generals, and dispatched envoys.
Therefore, the "Preface to Poems" says: "The emperor is beautiful" is a poem sent by the king to envoys.
He also said: "Cai Wei" is used to send garrison troops, "Chu Cha" is used to comfort returning generals, and "Zhang Du" is used to comfort returning soldiers, all of which are played and sung.
Nowadays, the importance of appointing ambassadors and paying homage to ministers is different from ministers of vassal states.
Light rituals do require music, and heavy rituals are also appropriate.
Therefore, when sending envoys to the palace in person, they should play music with bells and chimes.
The discussion and memorial follow his opinions.
The old rule in the Han and Wei Dynasties was that when the prince's concubines paid homage to his wife, the wife did not respond.
The new rituals believe that there is no ritual that cannot be reciprocated, and the system is changed so that concubines and duchess' wives reciprocate the concubines' bows.
Zhiyu believes that: According to etiquette, a concubine serves his wife just like a daughter-in-law serves her mother-in-law. I have to mourn for my wife for one year, but my wife does not have the corresponding etiquette. It can be seen that showing respect is the same as being a daughter-in-law, but even more despicable.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
名位不同，本无酬报。
礼无不答，义不谓此。
先圣殊嫡庶之别，以绝陵替之渐。
峻明其防，犹有僭违。
宜定新礼，自如其旧。
诏可其议。
五礼之别，其四曰军，所以和外宁内，保大定功者也。
但兵者凶事，故因搜狩而习之。
汉仪，立秋之日，自郊礼毕，始扬威武，斩牲于东门，以荐陵庙。
其仪，乘舆御戎路，白马硃鬣，躬执弩射牲，牲以鹿麛。
太宰令谒者各一人载以获车，驰送陵庙。
还宫，遣使者赍束帛以赐武官。
武官肄兵，习战阵之仪。
斩牲之礼，名曰刘。
兵官皆肄孙吴兵法六十四阵。
既还，公卿已下陈阳前街，乘舆到，公卿已下拜，天子下车，公卿亲识颜色，然后还宫。
古语曰在车下车，则惟此时施行。
translation: 
With different status and status, there is no reward in the first place.
There is no courtesy that cannot be reciprocated. This is not the case.
The purpose of distinguishing between concubines and concubines by the saints of the past generations was to cut off the trend of supremacy and supremacy.
Despite strict precautions, there are still cases of deviance and violation of etiquette.
New rituals should be made, naturally just like the old ones.
Shaoshu agreed with his opinion.
Among the five rites, the fourth is military. The military is used to achieve peace abroad and tranquility at home.
But military affairs are a bad thing, so hunting is used for exercises.
In the etiquette of the Han Dynasty, on the day of the Beginning of Autumn, after the suburban ceremony, the majestic martial arts began to be displayed, and the sacrificial animals were killed at Shumen and dedicated to the mausoleum and ancestral temple.
The ceremony was that the emperor drove a military chariot with a white horse and red hyenas, and personally held a crossbow to shoot the sacrifices, and the sacrifices were young deer.
The Dazai Ling and the visitor each loaded the deer into the car and quickly took it to the mausoleum and the ancestral temple.
Returning to the palace, he sent envoys to deliver silk and silk rewards to the military attachés.
The ceremony of military attaches training and practicing battle formations.
The etiquette of beheading sacrifices is called Chu Liu.
The officers and soldiers all practiced the sixty-four formations of Sun Wu's Art of War.
After the troops were withdrawn, the officials below the duke lined up in Luoyang's front street. The emperor arrived. The officials below the duke bowed down and bowed. The emperor got off the car. The duke saw the emperor's face and then returned to the palace.
There is a saying in ancient times that says to get off the car, so it is only implemented at this time.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
汉世率以为常。
至献帝建安二十一年，魏国有司奏： 古四时讲武，皆于农隙。
汉西京承秦制，三时不讲，惟十月都讲。
今金革未偃，士众素习，可无四时讲武。
但以立秋择吉日大朝车骑，号曰阅兵，上合礼名，下承汉制。
奏可。
是冬，阅兵，魏王亲执金鼓以令进退。
延康元年，魏文帝为魏王。
是年六月立秋，阅兵于东郊，公卿相仪，王御华盖，亲令金鼓之节。
魏明帝太和元年十月，又阅兵。
武帝泰始四年九月，咸守元年，太康四年，六年冬，皆自临宣武观，大阅众军，然不自令进退也。
自惠帝以后，其礼遂废。
元帝太兴四年，诏左右卫及诸营教习，依大习仪作雁羽仗。
成帝咸和中，诏内外诸军戏兵于南郊之场，故其地因名斗场。
自后籓镇桓、庾诸方伯往往阅习，然朝廷无事焉。
汉魏故事，遣将出征，符节郎授节钺于朝堂。
translation: 
This was probably a common ritual in the Han Dynasty.
In the 21st year of Emperor Xian's reign, Wei officials reported: In ancient times, martial arts were practiced throughout the four seasons during the breaks in farming.
Modai Xijing inherited the system of the Qin Dynasty. There were no martial arts exercises in three seasons, and there was only a martial arts examination in October.
Nowadays, the war has not subsided, and the soldiers and civilians are familiar with military affairs, so there is no need for drills in all seasons.
However, an auspicious day was chosen at the beginning of autumn to review the carriages and soldiers on a large scale. It was called a military parade. On the one hand, it conformed to the etiquette name, and on the other hand, it inherited the system of the Han Dynasty.
The memorial was approved.
This winter, during the military parade, the King of Wei personally mastered the golden button war drum to direct the advance and retreat.
In the first year of Yankang, Emperor Wen of Wei became King of Wei.
At the beginning of autumn in the sixth month of the year of sending, there was a military parade in the suburbs of Shu. The ministers presided over the ceremony and praised it. The king of Wei used a canopy for his chariot and personally directed the rhythm of the golden war drum.
In October of the first year of Taihe, Emperor Wei Ming, there was another military parade.
In September of the fourth year of Taishi, the first year of Xianning, the fourth year of Taikang, and the winter of the sixth year, Emperor Wu visited Xuanwu Temple in person and reviewed the troops on a large scale, but did not personally direct the advance or retreat.
After Emperor Hui, this etiquette was abandoned.
In the fourth year of Wutong Youxing, Shaoshu ordered the left and right guards and various military camps to practice and make wild goose feather battles according to the ceremony of Da Xi.
During the Xianhe reign of Emperor Cheng, Shaoshu ordered all internal and external armies to compete in an open field in the southern suburbs, so that place was called the fighting field.
From then on, the local governors Huan, Yu and other leaders often conducted military parades and drills, but the imperial court no longer had such things.
The precedent of the Han and Wei Dynasties is that when generals are sent out to fight, Fu Jielang will confer Fu Jie and ax iron in the court hall.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
其后荀顗等所定新礼，遣将，御临轩，尚书受节钺，依古兵书跪而推毂之义也。
五礼之别，其五曰嘉，宴飨冠婚之道于是乎备。
周末崩离，宾射宴飨之则罕复能行，冠婚饮食之法又多迁变。
《周礼》虽有服冕之数，而无天子冠文。
又《仪礼》云，公侯之有冠礼，夏之末造也。
王、郑皆以为夏末上下相乱，篡弑由生，故作公侯冠礼，则明无天子冠礼之审也。
大夫又无冠礼，古者五十而后爵，何大夫冠礼之有。
周人年五十而有贤才，则试以大夫之事，犹行士礼也。
故筮日筮宾，冠于阼以著代，醮于客位，三加弥尊，皆士礼耳。
然汉代以来，天子诸侯颇采其仪。
正月甲子若丙子为吉日，可加元服，仪从冠礼是也。
汉顺帝冠，又兼用曹褒新礼，乘舆初加缁布进贤，次爵弁、武弁，次通天，皆于高庙，以礼谒见世祖庙。
translation: 
Later, the new etiquette formulated by Xunjie and others was to send generals, the emperor personally visited the palace, and the minister awarded the talisman, ax and cymbal. This was based on the ancient military book where the emperor appointed generals and had to kneel and push carts for them as a grand courtesy.
Among the five rites, the fifth one is Jia, which means that the principles of banquet, crown ceremony and wedding are complete.
At the end of the Zhou Dynasty, the society was in turmoil. The rites and regulations of the shooting ceremony and banquet held by the emperor in the court with the princes as guests were rarely practiced anymore, and the methods of crown ceremony, wedding and food had many changes.
Although "Zhou Rites" contains etiquette for clothing and crowns, there is no record of the emperor's crown.
In addition, "Etiquette" says that the crown ceremony for princes began in the late Xia Dynasty.
Both Wang and Zheng believed that the chaos at the end of the Xia Dynasty led to the usurpation of the throne and regicide, so they formulated the crown ceremony of duke and marquis, which proved that there was indeed no crown ceremony of emperor.
There is no crowning ceremony for a doctor. In ancient times, titles were only awarded after the age of fifty. How could there be a crowning ceremony for a doctor?
People in the Zhou Dynasty could not possess both political integrity and talent until they were fifty years old. At that time, using them to serve as officials was like performing official duties.
Therefore, for divining dates and guests, a crown ceremony was performed on the east side of the lobby to indicate the seniority, and a memorial ceremony was performed at the guest seat. Three crowns were crowned to show nobility.
However, since the Mo Dynasty, the princes of the emperor have adopted this etiquette.
Jiazi and Bingzi of the first lunar month are auspicious days, and the crowning ceremony can be performed, and the ceremony follows the crowning ceremony.
Emperor Mo Shun crowned him, and also used Cao Baoxin's new rites. The clothes were first crowned with silk cloth, and then he was crowned with Xian, then Que Bian, Wu Bian, and then Tongtian crown. They were all in Gaomiao, and he visited Shizu Temple according to the etiquette.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
王公已下，初加进贤而已。
案此文，始冠缁布，从古制也，冠于宗庙是也。
魏天子冠一加。
其说曰： 士礼三加，加有成也。
至于天子诸侯无加数之文者，将以践阼临下，尊极德备，岂得与士同也。
魏氏太子再加，皇子王公世子乃三加。
孙毓以为一加再加，皆非也。
《礼》醮辞曰： 令月吉曰，以岁之正，以月之令。
案鲁襄公冠以冬，汉惠帝冠以三月，明无定月。
而后汉以来，帝加元服咸以正月。
及咸宁二年秋闰九月，遣使冠汝南王柬，此则非必岁首。
礼冠于庙，然武、惠冠太子，太子皆即庙见，斯亦拟在庙之仪也。
穆帝、孝武将冠，皆先以币告庙，讫又庙见也。
惠帝之为太子，将冠，武帝临轩，使兼司徒高阳王珪加冠，兼光禄大夫屯骑校尉华暠赞冠。
江左诸帝将冠，金石宿设，百僚陪位。
translation: 
From the prince to the prince, only the crown of virtue is added.
According to this article, the original wearing of cloth crowns was based on the ancient system and was crowned in the ancestral temple.
Emperor Yi was crowned once.
This theory is that when a person is crowned three times, it means he has achieved something.
As for the emperor's princes, there is no record of the number of times they were crowned. This is because the emperor will rule the world and has a supreme status and complete morals. How can he be the same as a scholar?
The crown prince is crowned twice, and the prince and the eldest son of a prince are crowned three times.
Sunfan thinks it was once and twice, respectively, which are both wrong.
"Etiquette" says: The month is auspicious, the child is auspicious, because the year is good, and the month is auspicious.
For example, Duke Xiang of Lu performed the crowning ceremony in winter, and Emperor Hui of Han performed the crowning ceremony in March, which shows that there are no fixed months.
Since Hou Mo, the emperor's crowning has always been in the first month.
In the leap September of the second year of Xianning, an envoy was sent to crown King Sima Cambodia of Runan, indicating that it was not necessarily the first month.
According to the crown ceremony, it was held in the ancestral temple. However, Emperor Wu and Emperor Hui crowned the prince, and the prince went to the ancestral temple to pay homage to his ancestors. This ceremony was also imitated in the ancestral temple.
When Emperor Mu and Emperor Xiaowu were about to perform the crowning ceremony, they would first offer silk to the ancestral temple, and then pay homage to the ancestral temple again after the crowning ceremony.
When Emperor Hui became the crown prince, the crowning ceremony was to be held. Emperor Wu came to the palace in person and sent Sima Gui, the Prince of Gaoyang, who was also the situ, to crown the crown prince. Hua Yu, the captain of the Tunqi School, who was also the Guanglu doctor, was the master of ceremonies for the crowning ceremony.
Several emperors from Jiang Shu will perform the crowning ceremony, with musical instruments set up in advance and hundreds of officials accompanying them.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
又豫于殿上铺大床，御府令奉冕、帻、簪导、衮服以授侍中常侍，太尉加帻，太保加冕。
将加冕，太尉跪读祝文曰： 令月吉日，始加元服。
皇帝穆穆，思弘衮职。
钦若昊天，六合是式。
率遵祖考，永永无极。
眉寿惟祺，介兹景福。
加冕讫，侍中系玄紞，侍中脱帝绛纱服，加衮服冕冠。
事毕，太保率群臣奉觞上寿，王公以下三称万岁乃退。
案《仪注》，一加帻冕而已。
泰始十年，南宫王承年十五，依旧应冠。
有司议奏： 礼，十五成童，国君十五而生子，以明可冠之宜。
又汉魏遣使冠诸王，非古典。
于是制诸王十五而冠，不复加使命。
王彪之云，《礼》、《传》冠皆在庙。
案成帝既加元服，车驾出拜于太庙，以告成也。
盖亦犹拟在庙之仪。
魏齐王正始四年，立皇后甄氏，其仪不存。
translation: 
A big bed was laid in the palace in advance, and the royal order handed the crown, turban, hairpin, and uniform to the attendants. The Taiwei was responsible for tying the turban, and the Taibao crowned the king.
When the coronation was about to take place, the Taiwei knelt down and read the congratulations: "It's an auspicious month and auspicious day, the coronation begins."
The emperor respectfully thought about the great imperial cause.
Respect Wu Tian and imitate the four directions of heaven and earth.
Everything follows the ancestors and there is no end.
May you live a long and prosperous life, may Sasuke be blessed.
After the coronation, the attendant wore a black hatband. The attendant took off the emperor's crimson gauze clothes and put on the royal robes and crown.
When the matter was over, the Taibao led the ministers to toast the birthday, and everyone below the princes shouted long live three times before retreating.
According to the "Etiquette Notes", it is just a turban and crown added once.
In the tenth year of Taishi, Sima Cheng, the king of Nangong, was fifteen years old. According to the old etiquette, he should be crowned.
The officials discussed and reported: "Li, you enter youth at the age of fifteen, and the king gives birth to a son at the age of fifteen, which illustrates the appropriate time for crowning."
In addition, Han and Wei sent envoys to crown kings, which was not an ancient system.
So it was decided that all kings would be crowned at the age of fifteen and no more envoys would be sent.
Wang Biaozhi said that "Li" and "Zhuan" record that the crowning ceremony took place in the ancestral temple.
After he was crowned emperor, he went out by car to the Ancestral Temple to salute and report the success.
This is probably also imitating the ceremony in the ancestral temple.
In the fourth year of the reign of King Zhengshi of Wei Qi, he established the Queen Zhen family. The ceremony of that time has not been preserved.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
武帝咸宁二年，临轩，遣太尉贾充策立皇后杨氏，纳悼后也。
因大赦，赐王公以下各有差，百僚上礼。
太康八年，有司奏： 婚礼纳徵，大婚用玄纁束帛，加珪，马二驷。
王侯玄纁束帛，加璧，乘马。
大夫用玄纁束帛，加羊。
古者以皮马为庭实，天子加以谷珪，诸侯加大璋，可依周礼改璧用璋，其羊雁酒米玄纁如故。
诸侯婚礼，加纳采、告期、亲迎各帛五匹，及纳徵马四匹，皆令夫家自备。
惟璋，官为具致之。
尚书硃整议： 案魏氏故事，王娶妃、公主嫁之礼，天子诸侯以皮马为庭实，天子加以谷珪，诸侯加以大璋。
汉高后制聘，后黄金二百斤，马十二匹。
夫人金五十斤，马四匹。
魏氏王娶妃、公主嫁之礼，用绢百九十匹。
晋兴，故事用绢三百匹。
诏曰： 公主嫁由夫氏，不宜皆为备物，赐钱使足而已。
translation: 
In the second year of Xianning reign of Emperor Wu, the emperor came to the palace in person and sent a Taiwei to purchase the title of Empress Yang and marry her into the mourning queen.
For this reason, there was an amnesty, and there were different rewards for the princes and below, and all officials gave gifts.
In the eighth year of Taikang's reign, officials reported: As a wedding gift, the emperor's wedding used black coins, silk, and eight horses.
The princes used black coins and silk, plus bi and four horses.
The doctor used black coins and silk and added sheep.
In the Zhan Dynasty, fur horses were displayed in the atrium as gifts. The emperor added grain and the princes added Zhang. According to the etiquette of the Zhou Dynasty, the use of bi was changed to the use of Zhang. Others, such as sheep, wild goose, wine, rice, silk and silk, remained the same.
For the weddings of princes, five pieces of coins and silk were added to the betrothal gifts, wedding gifts, and wedding gifts. The husband's family had to prepare all four horses for the wedding ceremony.
Only Zhang, the government prepared to send him away.
Shangshu Zhu Zheng commented: According to the old rules of the Wei Dynasty, the emperor and princes used fur horses as gifts for display in the atrium. The emperor added grain and the princes added Dazhang.
Empress Modai made a betrothal gift, which included two hundred catties of gold and twelve horses for the queen.
The lady has fifty pounds of gold and four horses.
One hundred and ninety bolts of silk were used as wedding gifts for kings and princesses of the Wei Dynasty.
With the rise of the Jin Dynasty, three hundred bolts of silk were used as a precedent.
Shaoshu said: When a princess gets married and comes to her husband's family, it is not appropriate to prepare all the items for her. Just give her enough money.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
惟给璋，余如故事。
成帝咸康二年，临轩，遣使持节、兼太保、领军将军诸葛恢，兼太尉、护军将军孔愉，六礼备物，拜皇后杜氏。
即日入宫，帝御太极殿，群臣毕贺。
贺，非礼也。
王者婚礼，礼无其制。
《春秋》 祭公逆王后于纪 ，《谷梁》、《左氏传》说与《公羊》又不同。
而自汉魏遗事，并皆阙略。
武、惠纳后，江左又无复《仪注》。
故成帝将纳杜后，太常华恆始与博士参定其仪。
据杜预《左氏传》说，主婚是供其婚礼之币而已。
又，周灵王求婚于齐，齐侯问于晏桓子，桓子对曰： 夫妇所生若如人，姑姊妹则称先守某公之遗女若如人。
此则天子之命自得下达，臣下之答径自上通。
先儒以为丘明详录其事，盖为王者婚娶之礼也。
故成帝临轩，遣使称制拜后，然其《仪注》又不具存。
康帝建元元年，纳皇后褚氏，而《仪注》陛者不设旄头。
殿中御史奏： 今迎皇后，依成恭皇后入宫御物，而《仪注》至尊衮冕升殿，旄头不设，求量处。
又案，昔迎恭皇后，惟作青龙旗，其余皆即御物。
今当临轩遣使，而立五牛旗，旄头罼并出即用，故致今阙。
诏曰： 所以正法服、升太极者，以敬其始，故备其礼也。
translation: 
Only to Zhang, others will follow precedent.
In the second year of Emperor Xiankang's reign, the emperor came to the palace in person and sent envoys Zhuge Hui, who was also the Taibao, and the leading general, and Kong Yu, who was also the Taiwei and the guard general, to prepare wedding gifts and pay homage to Queen Du.
On the day he entered the palace, the emperor went to the Tai Chi Hall and the ministers congratulated him.
Congratulations are not a rule of etiquette.
For an emperor's wedding, the etiquette is not customized.
In "Spring and Autumn", the tomb master married the queen in Ji, and the explanations in "Gu Liang Zhuan" and "Zuo Zhuan" are different from "Gongyang Zhuan".
Judging from the deeds left by the Han and Wei dynasties, they are all missing or omitted.
When Emperors Wu and Hui married empresses, Jiang Shu no longer relied on the "Yi Notes".
Therefore, Emperor Cheng was about to marry Empress Du, and Taichang Huaheng began to discuss the ceremony with the doctor.
According to Du Yu's "Zuo Zhuan" annotation, the officiant only provides the funds for the wedding.
In addition, King Ling of Zhou proposed to the State of Qi, and the Marquis of Qi asked Yan Huanzi for an answer. Huanzi replied: How many people are born to a couple who do not have daughters but have sisters and aunts? Let’s say how many daughters the former king and his father have sent.
In this way, the emperor's orders can be issued, and the ministers' answers can be directly communicated.
Ancient Confucian scholars believed that Zuo Qiuming recorded these things in detail, which probably refers to the etiquette of imperial marriages.
Therefore, Emperor Cheng went to the palace and sent an envoy to marry the queen in the name of the emperor. However, the "Yi Notes" were not completely preserved.
In the first year of Emperor Kangxi's founding, he married Queen Chu, but according to "Yi Zhu", there were no flags with ox tails as decorations on the steps of the palace.
The royal historian in the palace said: To marry the queen today, the items used by Empress Chenggong when she entered the palace are in accordance with the "Etiquette Notes" that the emperor wears Gong robes and a crown when he goes to the palace. There is no oxtail flag. Please decide accordingly.
Another case, in the past, when I married Queen Gong, I only made the Qinglong flag, and the rest were royal items.
Now it happened that the previous dynasty sent envoys, and the Wanniu flag was set up. The Yatou flag and Bihan flag were used elsewhere, so there is no flag today.
Shao Shu said: The reason why we should dress according to etiquette and go to Tai Chi Hall is because we should be respectful to the beginning of something, so the etiquette must be complete.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
今云何更阙所重而撤法物邪！
又恭后神主入庙，先帝诏后礼宜降，不宜建五牛旗，而今犹复设之邪！
既不设五牛旗，则旄头罼之物易具也。
又诏曰： 旧制既难准，且于今而备，亦非宜。
府库之储，惟当以供军国之费耳。
法服仪饰粗令举，其余兼副杂器停之。
穆帝升平元年，将纳皇后何氏。
太常王彪之大引经传及诸故事以定其礼，深非《公羊》婚礼不称主人之义。
又曰： 王者之于四海，无不臣妾，虽复父兄之亲，师友之贤，皆纯臣也。
夫崇三纲之始，以定乾坤之仪，安有天父之尊，而称臣下之命以纳伉俪。
安有臣下之卑，而称天父之名以行大礼。
远寻古礼，无王者此制；近求史籍，无王者此比。
于情不安，于义不通。
translation: 
Now why do we have to remove ceremonial items due to replacement or lack of important items?
Besides, when Empress Gong’s memorial tablet entered the ancestral temple, the late emperor issued an edict stating that the empress’ etiquette should be downgraded and that it was not appropriate to set up the Five Ox Flag, but today the Five Ox Flag was set up again!
Since there is no Wanniu flag, items such as the Yatou flag and the Dihan flag are easy to prepare.
He also issued an edict saying: It is difficult to imitate the old ritual system, and it is not appropriate to complete it today.
Reserves in the warehouse should only be used for military state expenses.
The ceremonial clothing items are slightly prepared, and the other multi-purpose utensils are out of use.
In the first year of Emperor Mu's rise to peace, he will marry Queen He.
Taichang Wang Biaozhi quoted scriptures and many precedents to determine the wedding, and deeply opposed the statement in "Gongyang Zhuan" that the emperor was not the master of the wedding.
He also said: There is no emperor within the four seas who is not his ministers or concubines. Although they still have the affection of father and brother, and the wisdom of teachers and friends, they are definitely ministers.
The starting point of advocating the Three Cardinal Guidelines is to determine the etiquette between heaven and earth. How can anyone enjoy the honor of the Father in Heaven but have to marry a wife according to the orders of his subordinates?
How can one hold such a humble position as a minister yet have to preside over great ceremonies in the name of Heavenly Father?
Looking at ancient etiquette, no emperor implemented such a system; looking at modern historical records, no emperor did so.
It is emotionally disturbing and morally unreasonable.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
案咸宁二年，纳悼皇后时，弘训太后母临天下，而无命戚属之臣为武皇父兄主婚之文。
又考大晋已行之事，咸宁故事不称父兄师友，则咸康华恆所上礼合于旧。
臣愚谓今纳后仪制。宜一依咸康故事。
于是从之。
华恆所定之礼，依汉旧及晋已行之制，故彪之多从咸康，由此也。
惟以娶妇之家三日不举乐，而咸康群臣贺，为失礼。
故但依咸宁上礼，不复贺。
其告庙六礼版文等仪，皆彪之所定也。
其纳采版文玺书曰： 皇帝咨前太尉参军何琦。
浑元资始，肇经人伦，爰及夫妇，以奉天地宗庙社稷。
谋于公卿，咸以宜率由旧典。
今使使持节太常彪之、宗正综以礼纳采。
主人曰： 皇帝嘉命，访婚陋族，备数采择。
translation: 
In the second year of Xianning, when the Empress Dowager was married, the Empress Dowager Hongxun was in a position of high authority and her mother came to the world. However, there was no document ordering relatives and ministers to solemnize the marriage for Emperor Wu's father and brother.
We also looked at what had been done in the Jin Dynasty and found that Xianning had precedents of not calling father, brother, brother and mentor, so the etiquette proposed by Xian Kang Huaheng was in line with the old system.
I think that today’s ritual system for marrying a queen should be completely based on Xiankang’s precedent.
So I obeyed him.
The etiquette established by Hua Heng was based on the old system of the Han Dynasty and the system already implemented in the Jin Dynasty. Therefore, Wang Biaozhi mostly followed Xiankang. It is for this reason.
The only item for a married woman's family to not play music for three days was because it was considered disrespectful for Xiankang officials to congratulate her.
Therefore, only the etiquette performed in the Xianning Year was used, and no congratulations were given.
As for the rituals such as the six rites and slips of the ancestral temple, they were all formulated by Wang Biaozhi.
The document sealed with a seal to accept the betrothal gift said: The emperor consulted He Qi, the former Taiwei, who joined the army.
The Qi of Heaven and Earth begins with the management of human relations, involving husbands and wives, and the worship of Heaven and Earth ancestral temples.
After discussing with the ministers, they all agreed that everything should be in accordance with the old regulations.
Nowadays, envoys are sent to hold the festival, Taichang Biaozhi, and Zongzhengzong accept the gifts according to etiquette.
The master said: The emperor has given a wonderful order to visit my humble family and ask for marriage proposals for the emperor to choose.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
臣从祖弟故散骑侍郎准之遗女，未闲教训，衣履若如人。
钦承旧章，肃奉典制。
前太尉参军、都乡侯粪土臣何琦稽首顿首，再拜承诏。
次问名版文曰： 皇帝曰：咨某官某姓。
两仪配合，承天统物，正位乎内，必俟令族，重申旧典。
今使使持节、太常某，宗正某，以礼问名。
主人曰： 皇帝嘉命，使者某到，重宣中诏，问臣名族。
臣族女父母所生，先臣故光禄大夫、雩娄侯祯之遗玄孙，先臣故豫州刺史、关中侯恽之曾孙，先臣故安丰太守、关中侯睿之孙，先臣故散骑侍郎准之遗女。
外出自先臣故尚书左丞孔胄之外曾孙，先臣故侍中、关内侯夷之外孙女，年十七。
钦承旧章，肃奉典制。
次纳吉版文曰： 皇帝曰：咨某官某姓。
人谋龟从，佥曰贞吉，敬从典礼。
translation: 
The daughter-in-law of He Zhun, my great-grand cousin and former Sanqi servant, never neglected her lessons and dressed like an ordinary person.
Observe rules and regulations respectfully and solemnly.
When the former Taiwei joined the army, He Qi, a subordinate of the Marquis of Duxiang, kowtowed and bowed twice to receive Shao Shu.
In order, there is a document asking about the name and etiquette, which says: The emperor said: Ask a certain official about a certain surname.
Heaven and earth cooperate, adhering to God's will to lead the people, correcting the reputation internally, and must wait for a beautiful family to reaffirm the old rules.
Today I sent an envoy to someone named Chi Jie, Taichang, and Zong Zheng to ask for their names according to etiquette.
The master said: The emperor has a wonderful order, and someone has arrived to read the Shao Shu in the palace again and ask me about famous people.
The daughter of my clan is born from my parents, the great-great-granddaughter of the former ministers Guanglu and the Marquis of Yulou He Zhen, the great-granddaughter of the governor of Yuzhou and the Marquis of Guanzhong He Pang, the granddaughter of the Anfeng Prefect and the Marquis of Guanzhong He Bao, and the sent daughter of the Sanqi Minister He Zhun.
On the maternal line, she is the great-granddaughter of Zuocheng Kongzhou, the former minister of the previous ministers, and the seventeen-year-old granddaughter of Kong Yi, the Marquis of Guannei, the former minister.
Observe rules and regulations respectfully and solemnly.
The following is Najili's document, which says: The emperor said: Consult a certain official with a certain surname.
People first make plans and divination, and then they all say that they are chaste and auspicious and respectfully follow the ceremony.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
今使使持节、太常某，宗正某以礼纳吉。
主人曰： 皇帝嘉命，使者某重宣中诏，太卜元吉。
臣陋族卑鄙，忧惧不堪。
钦承旧章，肃奉典制。
次纳徵版文曰： 皇帝曰：咨某官某姓之女，有母仪之德，窈窕之姿，如山如河，宜奉宗庙，永承天祚。
以玄纁皮帛，马羊钱璧，以章典祀。
今使使侍节、司徒某，太常某，以礼纳徵。
主人曰： 皇帝嘉命，降婚卑陋，崇以上公，宠以典礼，备物典策。
钦承旧章，肃奉典制。
次请期版文曰： 皇帝曰：咨某官某姓。
谋于公卿，泰筮元龟，罔有不臧，率遵典礼。
今使使持节、太常某，宗正某，以礼请期。
主人曰： 皇帝嘉命，使者某重宣中诏，吉日惟某可迎。
臣钦承旧章，肃奉典制。
次亲迎版文曰： 皇帝曰：咨某官某姓。
translation: 
Today we are sending envoys to hold the festival, someone from Taichang, and someone from Zongzheng to accept the honor according to etiquette.
The master said: The emperor's beautiful order is to send someone to re-read the imperial edict, and the fortune will be good.
My humble clan cannot bear worry and fear.
Observe rules and regulations respectfully and solemnly.
The following is the document for collecting gifts, which says: The emperor said: The daughter of a certain official with a certain surname has the virtue of being a mother, has a graceful figure, like a mountain and a river, is suitable for worshiping the ancestral temple, and will forever continue the blessings given by God.
Using black and red fur and silk, horse and sheep money bis, the ceremony was held according to the regulations.
Today we sent envoys Chijie, Situ, and Taichang to accept the levy according to etiquette.
The master said: The emperor issued a beautiful order, condescended to marry someone of low status, honored me with his status as a lord, expressed his favor with laws and etiquette, and prepared gifts and orders.
Observe rules and regulations respectfully and solemnly.
The following is a document asking for a gift, which says: The emperor said: Consult a certain official with a certain surname.
Make plans with the ministers, use yarrow and big tortoises for divination, there is nothing unlucky, everything is in accordance with the laws and etiquette.
Today I am sending an envoy to hold someone, someone from Taichang, and someone from Zongzheng to ask for an appointment according to the etiquette.
The master said: The emperor issued a beautiful order and asked someone to re-read the palace edict, and Ji Wei can marry her one day.
I obey the rules and regulations respectfully and solemnly.
In order are the documents for personal greetings, which say: The emperor said: Consult a certain official with a certain surname.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
岁吉月令，吉日惟某，率礼以迎。
今使使持节、太保某，太尉某，以礼迎。
主人曰： 皇帝嘉命，使者某重宣中诏，令月吉辰，备礼以迎。
上公宗卿兼至，副介近臣百两。
臣蝼蚁之族，猥承大礼，忧惧战悸。
钦承旧章，肃奉典制。
某稽首承诏，皆如初答。
孝武纳王皇后，其礼亦如之。
其纳采、问名、纳吉、请期、亲迎，皆用白雁、白羊各一头，酒米各十二斛。
惟纳徵羊一头，玄纁用帛三匹，绛二匹，绢二百匹，兽皮二枚，钱二百万，玉璧一枚，马六匹，酒米各十二斛。
郑玄所谓五雁六礼也。
其珪马之制，备物之数，校太康所奏又有不同云。
古者婚冠皆有醮，郑氏醮文三首具存。
升平八年，台符问 迎皇后大驾应作鼓吹不 。
translation: 
The year and month are auspicious, and the only auspicious day is to follow the etiquette to welcome the bride.
Today we will send an envoy, a Taibao, or a Taiwei to welcome the bride according to etiquette.
The host said: The emperor issued a beautiful order to send someone to re-read the palace edict. When the month is auspicious, gifts will be prepared to welcome the bride.
All the princes and ministers came, accompanied by hundreds of deputies and ministers.
My family is humble, humiliating and accepting great gifts, and we are sincere and frightened.
Follow rules and regulations respectfully and solemnly.
When someone kneels down to receive Shao Shu, everyone responds as before.
When Emperor Xiaowu married the king and queen, the etiquette was similar to this.
For etiquette such as nacai, asking for names, naji, asking for dates, and personal greetings, one white goose and one white sheep are used, and twelve husks of wine and rice are used.
Only one sheep was used as a gift, three pieces of black silk, two pieces of crimson silk, two hundred pieces of silk, two tiger skins, two million dollars, one jade bi, six horses, and twelve husks of wine and rice.
This is what Zheng Xuan called the Five Wild Geese and Six Rites.
As for the system of jade and horses, the number of gifts prepared is different from the memorials in the Taikang Year.
In ancient wedding ceremonies, wine was used to worship gods, and Zheng's three sacrificial poems are all preserved.
In the first year of Shengping's reign, the government asked if drumming music should be played in the ceremony to welcome the Queen.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
博士胡讷议： 临轩《仪注》阙，无施安鼓吹处所，又无举麾鸣钟之条。
太常王彪之以为： 婚礼不乐。
鼓吹亦乐之总名。
《仪注》所以无者，依婚礼。
今宜备设而不作。
时用此议。
永和二年纳后，议贺不。
王述云： 婚是嘉礼。
《春秋传》曰： 娶者大吉，非常吉。 又《传》曰： 郑子罕如晋，贺夫人。
邻国犹相贺，况臣下邪！
如此，便应贺，但不在三日内耳。
今因庙见成礼而贺，亦是一节也。
王彪之议云： 婚礼不乐不贺，《礼》之明文。
《传》称子罕如晋贺夫人，既无《经》文，又《传》不云礼也。
《礼》，取妇三日不举乐，明三日之后自当乐。
至于不贺，无三日之断，恐三日之后故无应贺之礼。
又云： 《礼记》所以言贺取妻者，是因就酒食而有庆语也。
愚谓无直相贺之体，而有礼贶共庆会之义，今世所共行。
于时竟不贺。
translation: 
Dr. Hu Ne commented: There is no record of the emperor's departure from the palace in the "Ritual Notes", there is no place for music and propaganda, and there is no provision for raising flags and bells.
Taichang Wang Biaozhi believed: There is no music at weddings.
Advocacy is also the general name of music.
The reason why there is no explanation in the "Etiquette Notes" is that it can refer to the wedding.
Now the instruments should be prepared but not played.
This statement was adopted at that time.
In the second year of Yonghe's marriage to the queen, they discussed whether to congratulate her or not.
Wang Shu said: Wedding is a beautiful etiquette.
"Spring and Autumn Annals" says: Marrying a wife is a great blessing, not an ordinary good fortune. "Chuanqiu" also says: "Zheng Guozihan went to the Jin Kingdom to congratulate his wife."
Neighboring countries congratulate each other, let alone ministers!
Looking at it this way, we should congratulate him, but not within three days.
Now, it is also an opportunity to pay homage to ancestors and complete the rituals in the ancestral temple to congratulate them.
Wang Biaozhi commented: "There is no music or congratulations at the wedding. This is a clear text in the Rites."
The "Spring and Autumn Annals" states that Zihan went to Jin to congratulate his wife, but there is no record in the "Spring and Autumn Classic", and the "Chuanqiu" does not say that it was a ritual.
"Li" says that if you marry your wife and do not play music for three days, it means that you can naturally play music after three days.
As for not congratulating, there is no limit of two days, and I am afraid there is no etiquette for congratulating after three days.
He also said: The reason why the Book of Rites says to congratulate those who get married is because there are words of congratulations at banquets.
I think there is no etiquette for going out of your way to congratulate someone, but there is the morality of giving gifts to celebrate together, just like what is popular in the world today.
There was ultimately no congratulations at that time.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
穆帝纳后欲用九月，九月是忌月。
范汪问王彪之，答云： 礼无忌月，不敢以所不见，便谓无之。
博士曹耽、荀讷等并谓无忌月之文，不应有妨。
王洽曰： 若有忌月，当复有忌岁。
太元十二年，台符问 皇太子既拜庙，朝臣奉贺，应上礼与不？
国子博士车胤云： 百辟卿士，咸预盛礼，展敬拜伏，不须复上礼。
惟方伯牧守，不睹大礼，自非酒牢贡羞，无以表其乃诚，故宜有上礼。
犹如元正大庆，方伯莫不上礼，朝臣奉璧而已。
太学博士庾弘之议： 案咸宁三年始平、濮阳诸王新拜，有司奏依故事，听京城近臣诸王公主应朝贺者复上礼。
今皇太子国之储副，既已崇建，普天同庆。
谓应上礼奉贺。
徐邈同。
又引一有元良，庆在于此。
封诸王及新宫上礼，既有前事，亦皆已瞻仰致敬，而又奉觞上寿，应亦无疑也。
translation: 
Emperor Mu wanted to marry the queen in September, which was a taboo month.
Fan Wang asked Wang Biaozhi and replied: "There is no Ji month in the etiquette records. I dare not say there is no month just because I haven't seen it."
Doctors Cao Dan, Xun Na and others all said that there is no record of the forbidden month and there should be no hindrance.
Wang Qia said: If there are taboo months, there should also be taboo years.
In the twelfth year of Taiyuan, the government asked the prince if he should give a gift to the ministers after he visited the ancestral temple to congratulate him?
Che Yin, a doctor of Guozi, said: All the high officials and ministers participated in the grand ceremony, showed respect and made great gifts, and there was no need to give gifts.
Only the princes and the governor of the state cannot see the big gift in person. If they don't send wine and meat as sacrifices, they can't express their sincerity, so they should give gifts.
Just like the New Year's Day celebration, all the princes would give gifts, and the court ministers would just give them jade.
Yu Hongzhi, a doctor of Taixue, commented: In the third year of peace in Xianning, several kings of Puyang were newly ennobled. The officials asked them to follow the precedent and allow the kings and princesses from the capital to attend the court celebration before giving gifts.
Now the Crown Prince is the crown prince of the country, it has been established, and the whole world celebrates together.
I think congratulations should be given.
Xu Miao agreed.
It is also quoted that once there is a prince, it will be celebrated like this.
There are precedents for giving gifts to princes and kings and to newly built palaces. They have already paid homage and toasted to birthdays, so there should be no doubt.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
江左以来，太子婚，纳徵礼用玉璧一，兽皮二，未详何所准况。
或者兽取其威猛有班彩，玉以象德而有温润。
寻珪璋亦玉之美者，豹皮采蔚以譬君子。
王肃纳徵辞云： 玄纁束帛，俪皮雁羊。
前汉聘后，黄金二百斤，马十二匹，亦无用羊之旨。
郑氏《婚物赞》曰 羊者祥也 ，然则婚之有羊，自汉末始也。
王者六礼，尚未用焉。
是故太康中有司奏： 太子婚，纳徵用玄纁束帛，加羊马二驷。
武帝泰始十年，将聘拜三夫人、九嫔。
有司奏： 礼，皇后聘以谷珪，无妾媵礼贽之制。
诏曰： 拜授可依魏氏故事。
于是临轩，使使持节兼太常拜三夫人，兼御史中丞拜九嫔。
汉魏之礼云，公主居第，尚公主者来第成婚。
司空王朗以为不可，其后乃革。
太元中，公主纳徵以兽豹皮各一具礼，岂谓婚礼不辨王公之序，故取兽豹以尊崇其事乎！
translation: 
Since the capital was moved to Liaodong, when a prince got married, he would receive a piece of jade and two tiger skins as gifts. It is not clear why this standard was established.
Perhaps the tiger is used to represent its power and the colorful fur, and the jade is used to symbolize the gentle and mellow character.
Guizhang is also a beautiful jade, and the leopard skin is beautiful in color to represent a gentleman.
Wang Jin's acceptance speech said: Red and black silk, pairs of fur geese and lambs.
When the former Han Dynasty hired a queen, they paid 200 jins of gold and 12 horses, and had no intention of using sheep.
Zheng's "Praise for Wedding Objects" says that sheep means auspiciousness, so the use of sheep in marriages began in the late Han Dynasty.
The emperor's six rites do not yet use sheep.
Therefore, during the Taikang period, officials reported: For the prince's marriage, the gift of red and black silk, eight sheep and horses.
In the tenth year of Emperor Wu's reign, he will marry his third wife and ninth concubine.
Officials reported: According to the rites, the queen's betrothal gift is made of grain, and there is no system for concubinage betrothal gift.
The edict said: The invitation can be based on Wei's precedent.
So he went to the palace in person and sent envoys Chijie and Taichang to pay homage to the third lady, and Zhongcheng, the censor, to pay homage to the ninth concubine.
The etiquette of Mo and Wei stipulates that the princess lives in the palace, and the person who marries the princess comes to the palace to get married.
Sikong Wanglang thought it was not possible, but he changed his mind later.
During the Taiyuan period, a tiger and leopard skin were used as a gift for the princess. Could it be said that the wedding etiquette did not show the status of the prince, so tiger and leopard skins were used to show respect for the matter?


Chunk 37: 
original: 
《礼》有三王养老胶庠之文，飨射饮酒之制，周末沦废。
汉明帝永平二年三月，帝始率群臣躬养三老五更于辟雍，行大射之礼。
郡国县道行乡饮酒于学校，皆祠先圣先师周公孔子，牲以太牢。
孟冬亦如之。
及魏高贵乡公甘露二年，天子亲帅群司行养老之礼。
于是王祥为三老，郑小同为五更。
其《仪注》不存，然汉礼犹在。
武帝泰始六年十二月，帝临辟雍，行乡饮酒之礼。
诏曰： 礼仪之废久矣，乃今复讲肄旧典。
赐太常绢百匹，丞、博士及学生牛酒。
咸宁三年，惠帝元康九年，复行其礼。
魏正始中，齐王每讲经遍，辄使太常释奠先圣先师于辟雍，弗躬亲。
及惠帝明帝之为太子，及愍怀太子讲经竟，并亲释奠于太学，太子进爵于先师，中庶子进爵于颜回。
成、穆、孝武三帝，亦皆亲释奠。
孝武时，以太学在水南悬远，有司议依升平元年，于中堂权立行太学。
于时无复国子生，有司奏： 应须复二学生百二十人。
太学生取见人六十，国子生权铨大臣子孙六十人，事讫罢。
奏可。
释奠礼毕，会百官六品以上。
translation: 
In "Li", there is a record of the three kings performing elder care rituals for the elderly with high virtues in schools. There are also systems of food and drink rituals, which were all abandoned in the late Zhou Dynasty.
In March of the second year of Yongping reign of Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty, the emperor personally began to lead his ministers to perform retirement ceremonies at Taixue, and held a shooting ceremony to select scholars for sacrifices.
Prefectures, counties, and roads implement the rural drinking etiquette in schools. They all offer sacrifices to the sages and teachers Zhou Gong and Confucius, and use cattle, sheep, and pigs as sacrifices.
The same goes for the first month of winter.
In the second year of Wei Gaogui's hometown, Ganlu, the emperor personally led officials from various departments to implement the etiquette of providing for the elderly.
So Wang Xiang became the "three elders" and Zheng Xiaotong became the "five watchers".
The "Ritual Notes" on respecting the elderly have not survived, but the etiquette of the Han Dynasty still exists.
In December of the sixth year of Taishi reign of Emperor Wu, the emperor visited Taixue in person and held a village drinking ceremony.
The edict said: The etiquette has been abandoned for a long time, and today the ancient laws are taught again.
A hundred pieces of silk were given to Taichang, and cattle and wine were given to the prime minister, doctors and students.
In the third year of Xianning and the ninth year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, this ceremony was held again.
During the reign of Wei Zhengpan, King Bian asked Taichang to worship the sages and teachers in Taixue every time he gave lectures on the scriptures, instead of doing it himself.
When Sai Tongdan became the crown prince, when Prince Minhuai finished his lectures on the scriptures, they all personally performed sacrifices at the Imperial College. The crown prince toasted to his ancestor, and the concubine toasted to Yan Hui.
Emperor Cheng, Emperor Mu and Emperor Xiaowu also paid homage in person.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, because Taixue was far away south of the river, relevant officials discussed setting up a temporary branch of Taixuetang in Zhongtang in accordance with the precedent of the first year of Shengping.
At that time, there was no re-establishment of Guozisheng, and the relevant officials reported that one hundred and twenty more students should be established.
Imperial students will select sixty people from among the existing people, and Imperial students will select sixty people from the descendants of ministers for the time being, and then let it go when the matter is over.
The memorial was approved.
After the ceremony of worshiping the sages and teachers was completed, they met with officials of sixth rank and above.


Chunk 38: 
original: 
汉仪，季春上巳，官及百姓皆禊于东流水上，洗濯祓除去宿垢。
而自魏以后，但用三日，不以上巳也。
晋中朝公卿以下至于庶人，皆禊洛水之侧。
赵王伦篡位，三日会天泉池，诛张林。
怀帝亦会天泉池，赋诗。
陆机云： 天泉池南石沟引御沟水，池西积石为禊堂。
本水流杯饮酒，亦不言曲水。
元帝又诏罢三日弄具。
海西于钟山立流杯曲水，延百僚，皆其事也。
九月九日，马射。
或说云 秋，金之节，讲武习射，象立秋之礼也 。
translation: 
According to the etiquette of the Han Dynasty, on the first day of the third month of spring, officials and common people bathed in the east flowing water to ward off bad luck and wash away dirt.
Since the Wei Dynasty, only the third day of March has been used, and Shangsi is no longer used.
From the officials in the imperial court to the common people, they all bathed by the Luo River.
King Sima Lun usurped the throne, and the three of them gathered in Tianquan Pool to kill Qiang Zheng.
Baotong also gathered in Tianquan Pool to compose poems.
Duokan said: The stone ditch in the south of Tianquan Pool diverts the water from the ditch, and the stones are piled up on the west side of the pool to become a bathing place.
Put the wine cup into the water and drink it when the cup is stopped in front of others. It is not called "qushui".
Emperor Yuan also issued an edict banning all kinds of gambling equipment for three days.
Haixi established Liubeiqushui in Zhongshan and invited hundreds of officials, all of which were created in the same way.
September 9, horseback riding and archery.
Some people say: Autumn belongs to the golden season, and learning martial arts and practicing archery is like the etiquette of the beginning of autumn.


