Chunk 0: 
original: 
微子开者，殷帝乙之首子而帝纣之庶兄也。
纣既立，不明，淫乱于政，微子数谏，纣不听。
及祖伊以周西伯昌之修德，灭国，惧祸至，以告纣。
纣曰： 我生不有命在天乎？
是何能为！
于是微子度纣终不可谏，欲死之，及去，未能自决，乃问于太师、少师曰： 殷不有治政，不治四方。
我祖遂陈于上，纣沉湎于酒，妇人是用，乱败汤德于下。
殷既小大好草窃奸宄，卿士师师非度，皆有罪辜，乃无维获，小民乃并兴，相为敌雠。
今殷其典丧！
若涉水无津涯。
殷遂丧，越至于今。
曰： 太师，少师，我其发出往？
吾家保于丧？今女无故告予，颠跻，如之何其？ 太师若曰： 王子，天笃下菑亡殷国，乃毋畏畏，不用老长。
今殷民乃陋淫神祇之祀。
今诚得治国，国治身死不恨。
为死，终不得治，不如去。
遂亡。
translation: 
Wei Zikai was the eldest son of Emperor Yi of the Yin Dynasty and the half-brother of King Zhou.
After Shang Zhou came to the throne, his rule was dark, he did not care about the affairs of the country, he was licentious and extravagant, and his followers repeatedly came to the throne, but King Zhou did not listen.
When Zuyi destroyed Xu due to Zhou Xibochang's virtuous governance, Weizi was worried that disaster would befall the Yin Dynasty, so he repeatedly advised King Zhou.
But King Zhou said: Wasn't it my destiny to be in Gastrodia when I was born?
Who can do anything to me?
Wei Zi then expected that King Zhou would not listen to his advice until his death, and planned to die or leave King Zhou. But he could not make a decision, so he went to ask the Taishi and Shaoshi, saying: The Yin Dynasty no longer has clear politics and cannot govern the four directions well.
Our ancestors created great achievements in the previous life, but King Zhou indulges in wine and banquets today, only obeying the words of women, disrupting and corrupting King Tang's good governance.
Everyone in the Yin Dynasty, big and small, was keen on thefts and rebellions in the grasslands. The ministers also imitated each other and violated laws and disciplines. Almost all of them were guilty, so their honors and titles could not continue. Since the imperial court was in chaos, the people began to rise up in all directions and became enemies of each other, and the world lost harmony.
Now, the Yin Dynasty has lost its national code, just like crossing a river by boat and not being able to find a ferry.
The demise of the Yin Dynasty is just around the corner.
Wei Zi continued: Master, Master, where will I go?
Can our Yin Dynasty be saved? You have no intention of warning me. What should I do if I fall into injustice?
The Grand Master followed suit and said: Prince, the Emperor of Heaven has brought disaster and destroyed the Yin Dynasty, but King Zhou is not afraid of the punishment of Heaven, nor does he listen to the advice of his elders.
Now, the subjects of the Yin Dynasty actually violated and falsely accused the gods of their will.
Now, if the Yin Dynasty can really be saved and the country is well managed, even if he dies, there will be no resentment left.
I'm afraid that even if you die for the country, the country still can't be governed, so it's better to go far away.
So Wei Zi left the Yin Dynasty.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
箕子者，纣亲戚也。
纣始为象箸，箕子叹曰： 彼为象箸，必为玉杯；为杯，则必思远方珍怪之物而御之矣。
舆马宫室之渐自此始，不可振也。
纣为淫泆，箕子谏，不听。
人或曰： 可以去矣。
箕子曰： 为人臣谏不听而去，是彰君之恶而自说于民，吾不忍为也。
乃被发详狂而为奴。
遂隐而鼓琴以自悲，故传之曰《箕子操》。
王子比干者，亦纣之亲戚也。见箕子谏不听而为奴，则曰： 君有过而不以死争，则百姓何辜！
乃直言谏纣。
纣怒曰： 吾闻圣人之心有七窍，信有诸乎？
乃遂杀王子比干，刳视其心。
微子曰： 父子有骨肉，而臣主以义属。
故父有过，子三谏不听，则随而号之；人臣三谏不听，则其义可以去矣。
于是太师、少师乃劝微子去，遂行。
周武王伐纣克殷，微子乃持其祭器造于军门，肉袒面缚，左牵羊，右把茅，膝行而前以告。
于是武王乃释微子，复其位如故。
武王封纣子武庚禄父以续殷祀，使管叔、蔡叔傅相之。
武王既克殷，访问箕子。
武王曰： 於乎！
translation: 
Jizi is a relative of King Zhou.
When King Zhou first made ivory chopsticks, Jizi lamented: If he makes ivory chopsticks now, he will definitely make jade cups in the future; if he makes jade cups, he will definitely want to take possession of rare treasures from far away.
The luxury of carriages, horses and palaces will definitely start from here, and the country will definitely not be able to revitalize.
Because of King Zhou's excessive sexual behavior, Jizi came to remonstrate with him, but King Zhou still refused to listen.
Someone said: You can leave now.
Jizi said: When a minister remonstrates with the monarch, the monarch ignores him and then leaves him. This is to publicize the monarch's evil deeds and to flatter the people by grandstanding. I cannot bear to do this.
So Jizi disheveled his hair, pretended to be crazy and became a slave.
He lived in seclusion and masturbated by playing the piano, so people praised his song as "Ji Zi Cao".
Prince Bigan was also a relative of King Zhou. When he saw that Jizi was admonishing, but the monarch did not listen and became a slave, he said: "The monarch has sins, and if he cannot persuade him directly with death, the people will suffer, and what crime do the people have?"
So, he bluntly remonstrated with King Zhou.
King Zhou was furious and said: I heard that the saint's heart has seven orifices. Is this true?
So King Zhou killed Bigan and dug out his heart to verify.
Wei Zi said: Father and son are connected by flesh and blood, while ministers and ministers are connected by morality.
Therefore, if a father is at fault and his son refuses to listen to his advice over and over again, he should cry accordingly; if a minister refuses to listen to his advice after repeated advice, then morally speaking, the minister can leave the king.
So, the Grand Master and the Young Master advised Wei Zi to leave, and Wei Zi left.
King Wu of Zhou attacked King Zhou and defeated the Yin Dynasty. Weizi came to King Wu's military gate with his sacrificial weapon in hand. He exposed his right arm and tied his hands behind his back. He had someone on the left holding the sheep and someone on the right holding a straw. He knelt on the ground and went forward to beg King Wu.
So King Wu released Wei Zi and restored his original title.
King Wu made Wu Geng, the son of Shang Zhou, his father and asked him to inherit the sacrifices of the Yin Dynasty. He also sent Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai to assist him.
After King Wu destroyed the Yin Dynasty, he went to visit Jizi.
King Wu said: Alas!


Chunk 2: 
original: 
维天阴定下民，相和其居，我不知其常伦所序。
箕子对曰： 在昔鲧堙鸿水，汩陈其五行，帝乃震怒，不从鸿范九等，常伦所斁。
鲧则殛死，禹乃嗣兴。
天乃锡禹鸿范九等，常伦所序。
初一曰五行；二曰五事；三曰八政；四曰五纪；五曰皇极；六曰三德；七曰稽疑；八曰庶征；九曰向用五福，畏用六极。
五行：一曰水，二曰火，三曰木，四曰金，五曰土。
水曰润下，火曰炎上，木曰曲直，金曰从革，土曰稼穑。
润下作咸，炎上作苦，曲直作酸，从革作辛，稼穑作甘。
五事：一曰貌，二曰言，三曰视，四曰听，五曰思。
貌曰恭，言曰从，视曰明，听曰聪，思曰睿。
translation: 
God silently stabilizes the people so that they can live and work in peace and contentment, but I don't know the common order of God's order for the people.
Jizi replied: Once upon a time, Gun blocked the flood and disturbed the laws of the Five Elements of Heaven, so God was angry and did not give him the nine great laws of heaven to govern the country.
Gun was killed, and Yu succeeded him.
God then gave Yu Tianda nine kinds of great laws, and the ethical laws were thus ordered.
Of these nine great laws, one is called the Five Elements, the second is called the Five Matters, the third is called the Eight Political Rules, the fourth is called the Five Disciplines, the fifth is called Emperor Ji, the sixth is called Three Virtues, the seventh is called suspicion, the eighth is called Concubine Zheng, the ninth is called Appointment and Five Blessings, and people are afraid of using the Six Extremes.
The five elements are: water, fire, wood, metal, and earth.
The natural tendency of water is to moisten all things and flow down. The natural tendency of fire is to rise due to strong heat. Wood can be bent and straightened. Gold can be melted and deformed. Earth can be cultivated and harvested.
The brine produced by moistening the next thing has a salty taste; the burning object produced by rising fire has a bitter taste; the wood becomes straight and sour; the melted and deformed gold pins have a pungent taste; and the harvesting of hundreds of grains from the land has a sweet taste.
Five things: first, appearance, second, speech, third, observation, fourth, listening, and fifth, thinking.
The appearance should be solemn and respectful, the speech should be convincing, the observation should be discerning, the listening should distinguish right from wrong, and the thinking should be clear and thorough.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
恭作肃，从作治，明作智，聪作谋，睿作圣。
八政：一曰食，二曰货，三曰祀，四曰司空，五曰司徒，六曰司寇，七曰宾，八曰师。
五纪：一曰岁，二曰月，三曰日，四曰星辰，五曰历数。
皇极：皇建其有极，敛时五福，用傅锡其庶民，维时其庶民于女极，锡女保极。
凡厥庶民，毋有淫朋，人毋有比德，维皇作极。
凡厥庶民，有猷有为有守，女则念之。
不协于极，不离于咎，皇则受之。
而安而色，曰 予所好德 ，女则锡之福。
时人斯其维皇之极。
毋侮鳏寡而畏高明。
人之有能有为，使羞其行，而国其昌。
凡厥正人，既富方榖。
女不能使有好于而家，时人斯其辜。
于其毋好，女虽锡之福，其作女用咎。
translation: 
If your appearance is respectful, the people will be serious; if your words are convincing, the country will be able to govern; if you can observe clearly, you will not be deceived; if you listen to wisdom, your subjects will follow their plans; if you think clearly, things will be successful.
Eight political affairs: the first is food, the second is financial loans, the third is sacrifice, the fourth is construction, the fifth is enlightenment, the sixth is elimination of evil, the seventh is praise, and the eighth is military.
Five Epochs: The first is the year, the second is the month, the third is the day, the fourth is the stars, and the fifth is the calendar.
Supreme principles: The monarch should establish supreme principles, collect the five blessings, and give them to his subjects. The subjects will support the principles established by the emperor, and the emperor can also require his subjects to abide by these principles.
No subject is allowed to form parties for personal gain. If people do not form private parties, they will regard the principles established by the emperor as supreme.
All subjects must think for the Emperor, do things for the Emperor, and must abide by the principles set by the Emperor.
You have to think about it this way. Although the actions of your subjects are sometimes inconsistent with your principles, as long as they do not reach the level of crime, the emperor will tolerate them.
If someone humbly says: I like your principles, you will give him happiness.
In this way, people will fully adhere to your principles.
Do not mistreat those who are helpless, but fear the noble and distinguished.
You should be good at using people who have the ability and achievements, and the country will prosper.
Those who are appointed should be given titles and salaries.
If you cannot make officials contribute to the country, these people will turn to crime.
Even if you grant happiness to those who do not like the principles you have established, it will do no good to your country.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
毋偏毋颇，遵王之义。
毋有作好，遵王之道。
毋有作恶，遵王之路。
毋偏毋党，王道荡荡。
毋党毋偏，王道平平。
毋反毋侧，王道正直。
会其有极，归其有极。
曰王极之傅言，是夷是训，于帝其顺。凡厥庶民，极之傅言，是顺是行，以近天子之光。曰天子作民父母，以为天下王。
三德：一曰正直，二曰刚克，三曰柔克。
平康正直，强不友刚克，内友柔克，沉渐刚克，高明柔克。
维辟作福，维辟作威，维辟玉食。臣无有作福作威玉食。
臣有作福作威玉食，其害于而家，凶于而国，人用侧颇辟，民用僭忒。
translation: 
You should not be biased or unfair, and should act according to the laws of the former king.
Don't have personal likes and dislikes, just follow the path of the previous kings.
You should not do evil, but follow the right path of the late king.
Don't be partial or make cronies, then the path of the Holy King will be broad.
Without cliques or partiality, the path of the Holy King will be clear and discernible.
Don't violate the king's way and don't offend the principles. The path of the Holy King will be upright.
You must gather those who act according to principles, and then your subjects will all return to your principles.
Therefore, the supreme principles announced by the Emperor should always be observed, and even the Emperor’s teachings must be in line with the will of God. All subjects should regard the laws proclaimed by the Emperor as supreme. If they act in accordance with this principle, they will be close to the Emperor. Therefore, the emperor should be the king of the people in the world just as he is the parent of the people.
The three virtues are: first, correcting one's merits, second, being strong enough to win, and third, being soft, being able to win.
If you want to make the world peaceful, you must correct people's integrity. To deal with those who are tough and unfriendly, use a hard attitude to defeat them;
Only the monarch can bestow titles and rewards, only the monarch can preside over punishments, and only the monarch can enjoy delicious food. Ministers have no right to confer titles or salaries, to preside over punishments, or to enjoy delicious food.
If your ministers can confer titles and salaries, preside over punishments, and enjoy delicious food, they will bring harm to your royal family and disaster to your country. As a result, people will behave unnaturally, and the common people will cause chaos.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
稽疑：择创建卜筮人。
乃命卜筮，曰雨，曰济，曰涕，曰雾，曰克，曰贞，曰悔，凡七。
卜五，占之用二，衍貣。
立时人为卜筮，三人占则从二人之言。
女则有大疑，谋及女心，谋及卿士，谋及庶人，谋及卜筮。
女则从，龟从，筮从，卿士从，庶民从，是之谓大同，而身其康强，而子孙其逢吉。
女则从，龟从，筮从，卿士逆，庶民逆，吉。
卿士从，龟从，筮从，女则逆，庶民逆，吉。
庶民从，龟从，筮从，女则逆，卿士逆，吉。
女则从，龟从，筮逆，卿士逆，庶民逆，作内吉，作外凶。
龟筮共违于人，用静吉，用作凶。
translation: 
The way to solve the problem is to choose people who are good at divination and let them use tortoise shell or yarrow to divine.
They were ordered to perform divination. Some of the divination signs were like rain, some were like the beginning of sunshine after rain, some were like continuous clouds, some were like mist, and some were intertwined. Some were clear and some were obscure. There were seven types of hexagrams.
The first five uses tortoise shells for divination, and the latter two use yarrow to deduce and study complex and changeable hexagrams.
Let these divination people be used. If there are three divination people, then the words of two people will be trusted.
If you encounter a major problem, you should first think it over on your own, then discuss it with your ministers, discuss it with the people, and finally use divination to make a decision.
If you yourself agree, the tortoise agrees, the fortune tellers agree, the ministers agree, and the people agree, this is called Datong. Then you will be healthy and strong, and your descendants will have good fortune.
If you agree with yourself, if the turtle divination agrees, if the fortune teller agrees, if the ministers disagree, and if the common people disagree, then this is good luck.
The ministers agree, the turtle divination agrees, the divination agrees, but you disagree, the ministers disagree, this is also auspicious.
The people agree, the tortoise agrees, the fortune teller agrees, but you don't agree, and the ministers don't agree, this is still auspicious.
If you agree, the tortoise agrees, the fortune teller disagrees, the ministers disagree, and the people disagree, doing things within the country will be auspicious, and doing things abroad will be dangerous.
Turtle divination and grass divination are contrary to people's opinions. If you stay still, you will be lucky, but if you take action, you will be in danger.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
庶征：曰雨，曰阳，曰奥，曰寒，曰风，曰时。
五者来备，各以其序，庶草繁庑。
一极备，凶。
一极亡，凶。
曰休征：曰肃，时雨若；曰治，时旸若；曰知，时奥若；曰谋，时寒若；曰圣，时风若。
曰咎征：曰狂，常雨若；曰僭，常旸若；曰舒，常奥若；曰急，常寒若；曰雾，常风若。王眚维岁，卿士维月，师尹维日。
岁月日时毋易，百谷用成，治用明，畯民用章，家用平康。
日月岁时既易，百谷用不成，治用昏不明，畯民用微，家用不宁。庶民维星，星有好风，星有好雨。
日月之行，有冬有夏。
月之从星，则以风雨。
五福：一曰寿，二曰富，三曰康宁，四曰攸好德，五曰考终命。
六极：一曰凶短折，二曰疾，三曰忧，四曰贫，五曰恶，六曰弱。
translation: 
Various signs: whether it is rain, sunshine, warmth, cold, or wind, these five natural phenomena should occur on time.
If all five natural phenomena are present and appear according to certain rules, crops will flourish.
If too much of one phenomenon occurs, the harvest will fail.
If a phenomenon is lacking, the harvest will also fail.
Regarding good omens: if the emperor is humble, it will rain on time; if the emperor is clear in government affairs, the sun will be abundant; if the emperor is wise, warmth will come on time; if the emperor is foresighted, cold will come on time; if the emperor is wise, the wind will blow on time.
There are all kinds of evil signs: if the emperor is arrogant, there will be too much rain; if the emperor is presumptuous, the sky will be dry; if the emperor is greedy for pleasure, the weather will be too hot; if the emperor is violent and impatient, the sky will be too cold; if the emperor is dim and unclear, the wind will blow continuously; if the emperor makes mistakes in his decision-making, it will affect the whole year; if the emperor's management is wrong, it will affect the whole month; if the officials are wrong in doing things, it will affect the whole day.
If there are no abnormalities in the year, month, and day, all kinds of crops will grow luxuriantly, politics will be clear, worthy people will be promoted, and the country will be safe and stable.
On the contrary, if there are abnormalities in the year, month, and day, the crops will not grow well, the politics will be gloomy, the capable people will be suppressed, and the country will be in turmoil. The people are like stars, and some stars like wind and some like rain.
The sun and the moon move according to rules, resulting in winter and summer.
If the moon obeys the stars, it will be windy sometimes and rainy sometimes.
Five blessings: first, longevity, second, wealth, third, peace, fourth, virtue, and fifth, a good death.
Six disasters: one is premature death, the other is illness, the third is sadness, the fourth is poverty, the fifth is ugliness, and the sixth is cowardice.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
于是武王乃封箕子于朝鲜而不臣也。
其后箕子朝周，过故殷虚，感宫室毁坏，生禾黍，箕子伤之，欲哭则不可，欲泣为其近妇人，乃作《麦秀之诗》以歌咏之。其诗曰： 麦秀渐渐兮，禾黍油油。
彼狡僮兮，不与我好兮！
所谓狡童者，纣也。
殷民闻之，皆为流涕。
武王崩，成王少，周公旦代行政当国。
管、蔡疑之，乃与武庚作乱，欲袭成王、周公。
周公既承成王命诛武庚，杀管叔，放蔡叔，乃命微子开代殷后，奉其先祀，作《微子之命》以申之，国于宋。
微子故能仁贤，乃代武庚，故殷之余民甚戴爱之。
微子开卒，立其弟衍，是为微仲。
微仲卒，子宋公稽立。
宋公稽卒，子丁公申立。
丁公申卒，子愍公共立。
愍公共卒，弟炀公熙立。
translation: 
After hearing Jizi's statement, King Wu granted North Korea to Jizi and no longer regarded him as a subject.
Later, Jizi paid homage to the King of Zhou and passed by his old capital Yinxu. He was saddened by the ruins of the palace and the overgrown crops. Jizi was very sad and wanted to cry loudly, but he couldn't. He wanted to cry quietly, but he also felt that he was close to a woman's character, so he recited "Mai Xiu" in response to the scene. The poem said: The wheat awns are sharp and the grass seedlings are green.
That boy is not friendly to me!
The so-called boy is King Zhou.
When the people of Yin saw this poem, they all cried for it.
After King Wu died and King Cheng was still young, Zhou Gongdan took charge of the state power as an acting administrator.
Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai suspected Zhou Gongdan, so they started a rebellion with Wu Geng and wanted to attack King Cheng and Duke Zhou.
Zhou Gong borrowed the order from King Cheng to kill Wu Geng and Guan Shu, and banished Cai Shu. He also asked Wei Zikai to take charge of Yin in Wu Geng's place to continue the sacrifice of Yin's ancestors. He also warned him with the "Wei Zi's Order" and sealed Wei Zi in the Song Dynasty.
Weizi was originally benevolent, righteous and capable. After replacing Wu Geng, the people in the old land of the Yin Dynasty loved him very much.
After Wei Zikai died, he made his younger brother Yan the king of the country. This is Wei Zhong.
After Weizhong's death, his son Song Gongji came to the throne.
After the death of Song Gongji, his son Ding Gongshen came to the throne.
After the death of Ding Gongshen, his son Min Gong came to the throne.
After Min Gong died, his younger brother Yang Gongxi came to the throne.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
炀公即位，愍公子鲋祀弑炀公而自立，曰 我当立 ，是为厉公。
厉公卒，子厘公举立。
厘公十七年，周厉王出奔彘。
二十八年，厘公卒，子惠公覵立。
惠公四年，周宣王即位。
三十年，惠公卒，子哀公立。
哀公元年卒，子戴公立。
戴公二十九年，周幽王为犬戎所杀，秦始列为诸侯。
三十四年，戴公卒，子武公司空立。
武公生女为鲁惠公夫人，生鲁桓公。
十八年，武公卒，子宣公力立。
宣公有太子与夷。
十九年，宣公病，让其弟和，曰： 父死子继，兄死弟及，天下通义也，我其立和。
和亦三让而受之。
宣公卒，弟和立，是为穆公。
translation: 
After Duke Yang ascended the throne, Min Gong's son Yusi killed Duke Yang and seized the throne, and announced: "I should ascend the throne." This is Duke Li.
After Li Gong died, his son Li Gongju came to the throne.
In the seventeenth year of Ligong's reign, King Li of Zhou fled to pig.
In the twenty-eighth year, after Duke Li died, his son Hui Gong came to the throne.
In the fourth year of Duke Hui, King Xuan of Zhou came to the throne.
In the thirtieth year, Duke Hui passed away and Duke Ai came to the throne.
Ai Gong died in the first year, and his son Dai Gong came to the throne.
In the twenty-ninth year of Dai Gong, King You of Zhou was killed by Quan Rong, and Qin began to be classified as a vassal state.
In the thirty-fourth year, Duke Dai died, and his son Wu Gong came to the throne empty.
Duke Wu gave birth to a daughter, who later became the wife of Duke Hui of Lu and gave birth to Duke Huan of Lu.
In the eighteenth year, Duke Wu died and his son Xuan Gongli came to the throne.
Xuan Gong's prince's name is Yi.
In the 19th year, Duke Xuan fell ill and gave up the throne to his younger brother He, saying: "When the father dies, the son succeeds to the throne; when the elder brother dies, the younger brother succeeds to the throne. This is the universal morality in the world." I want to establish He as the king of the country.
He gave in many times before finally accepting.
After the death of Duke Xuan, his younger brother He ascended the throne and became Duke Mu.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
穆公九年，病，召大司马孔父谓曰： 先君宣公舍太子与夷而立我，我不敢忘。
我死，必立与夷也。
孔父曰： 群臣皆愿立公子冯。
穆公曰： 毋立冯，吾不可以负宣公。
于是穆公使冯出居于郑。
八月庚辰，穆公卒，兄宣公子与夷立，是为殇公。
君子闻之，曰： 宋宣公可谓知人矣，立其弟以成义，然卒其子复享之。
殇公元年，卫公子州吁弑其君完自立，欲得诸侯，使告于宋曰： 冯在郑，必为乱，可与我伐之。
宋许之，与伐郑，至东门而还。
二年，郑伐宋，以报东门之役。
其后诸侯数来侵伐。
九年，大司马孔父嘉妻好，出，道遇太宰华督，督说，目而观之。
督利孔父妻，乃使人宣言国中曰： 殇公即位十年耳，而十一战，民苦不堪，皆孔父为之，我且杀孔父以宁民。
是岁，鲁弑其君隐公。
十年，华督攻杀孔父，取其妻。
殇公怒，遂弑殇公，而迎穆公子冯于郑而立之，是为庄公。
庄公元年，华督为相。
九年，执郑之祭仲，要以立突为郑君。
祭仲许，竟立突。
十九年，庄公卒，子愍公捷立。
愍公七年，齐桓公即位。
translation: 
In the ninth year, Duke Mu fell seriously ill. He summoned Grand Sima Kongfu and said, "The late king, Duke Xuan, abandoned the crown prince and the barbarians and passed the throne to me. I will never forget it."
After I die, I must support Yu Yi as the king.
Father Confucius said: All the ministers want to establish Prince Feng.
Duke Mu said: "Don't support Feng. I can't let Duke Xuan down."
So Duke Mu ordered his son Feng to go and live in the state of Zheng.
On Gengchen Day in August, Duke Mu died, and his brother Xuangong's son Yi succeeded him as Duke Shang.
When the gentlemen heard about this, they said: Song Xuan Gong knew people well and fulfilled his morality by passing the throne to his younger brother. However, in the end it was his son who got the throne.
In the first year of Shang Dynasty, Duke Zhouxu of Wei killed his own king Wan and established himself as king. Wanting to get the support of the princes, he sent someone to tell the king of Song: "Young Master Feng is in Zheng, and he will be a trouble in the future. You can work with me to attack him."
The king of Song State agreed, and he and Wei State jointly attacked Zheng State. The army returned after reaching the east gate of Zheng State.
The next year, Zheng Guo attacked the Song State and avenged the hatred of the Dongmen soldiers.
After that, the princes came to invade the Song Dynasty many times.
One day in the ninth year, the beautiful wife of the Grand Sima Kong Fujia went out and met Dazai Hua Du on the road. Hua Du took a fancy to Zhongjia's wife and looked at her intently.
Governor Hua coveted Confucius' father's wife, so he made people threaten him in the Song Dynasty: "In the ten years since Duke Shang came to the throne, he has fought eleven major battles, and the people have suffered terribly. This is all the fault of Confucius. I will kill Confucius to stabilize the people."
In this year, the people of Lu killed their own king Yin Gong.
Ten years later, Governor Hua killed Kong's father and took away his wife.
Duke Shang was very angry, so Governor Hua killed Duke Shang, and brought Feng Mu's son back from Zheng and made him king. This is Duke Zhuang.
In the first year of Zhuang Gong, Governor Hua became prime minister.
In the ninth year, he arrested Zheng Zhong's Ji Zhong and threatened him to become the king of Zheng.
Ji Zhong agreed and finally made Tu Tu the king.
In the 19th year, Duke Zhuang passed away and his son Min Gongjie came to the throne.
In the seventh year of Duke Min, Duke Huan of Qi came to the throne.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
九年，宋水，鲁使臧文仲往吊水。愍公自罪曰： 寡人以不能事鬼神，政不修，故水。
臧文仲善此言。
此言乃公子子鱼教愍公也。
十年夏，宋伐鲁，战于乘丘，鲁生虏宋南宫万。
宋人请万，万归宋。
十一年秋，愍公与南宫万猎，因博争行，愍公怒，辱之，曰： 始吾敬若；今若，鲁虏也。
万有力，病此言，遂以局杀愍公于蒙泽。
大夫仇牧闻之，以兵造公门。
万搏牧，牧齿着门阖死。
因杀太宰华督，乃更立公子游为君。
诸公子奔萧，公子御说奔亳。
万弟南宫牛将兵围亳。
冬，萧及宋之诸公子共击杀南宫牛，弑宋新君游而立愍公弟御说，是为桓公。
宋万奔陈。
宋人请以赂陈。
陈人使妇人饮之醇酒，以革裹之，归宋。
宋人醢万也。
translation: 
In the ninth year of the Song Dynasty, a flood occurred in the Song Dynasty. The Lu State sent Zang Wenzhong to express condolences to the Song Dynasty. Duke Min blamed himself and said: Because I did not serve the ghosts and gods well and the politics were unclear, the flood occurred.
Zang Wenzhong thinks this is right.
These words were actually taught by Master Ziyu to Duke Min.
In the summer of ten years, the Song State attacked the Lu State and fought in Chengqiu. The Lu State captured Nangong Wan of the Song State alive.
The people of the Song Dynasty asked the State of Lu to release Wan, and Nangong Wan returned to the State of Song.
In the autumn of the eleventh year, Min Gong and Nangong Wan were playing games while they were hunting. Nangong Wan argued with Min Gong. Min Gong was very angry and insulted Nangong Wan, saying: "I respected you at first, but now you are just a prisoner of Lu."
Nangong Wan was brave and powerful and hated Duke Min for saying this, so he grabbed the chessboard and killed Duke Min in Mengze.
When the doctor Qiu Mu heard about this, he came to the public gate with weapons.
Nangong Wan attacked Qiu Mu, but Qiu Mu hit his teeth on the door leaf and died.
Nangong Wanyou killed Dazai Huadu and supported Gongzi You as the king.
The young masters all fled to Xiaoyi, and the prince Yu said that they should run away to Bo.
Nangong Wan's younger brother Nangong Niu led the army to surround Bo.
In the winter, Dr. Xiao Yi and the princes who had fled from the Song Dynasty jointly killed Nangong Niu and killed the newly appointed king, Gongzi You. They replaced him with Min Gong's younger brother Yu said that this was Huan Gong.
Nangong Wan fled to Chen State.
Song State sent people to bribe Chen State.
Chen Guoren cleverly used a beauty trap to make Nangong Wan drunk with alcohol, wrapped him in leather and sent him back to the Song Dynasty.
The people of the Song Dynasty punished Nangong Wan with a grave.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
桓公二年，诸侯伐宋，至郊而去。
三年，齐桓公始霸。
二十三年，迎卫公子燬于齐，立之，是为卫文公。
文公女弟为桓公夫人。
秦穆公即位。
三十年，桓公病，太子兹甫让其庶兄目夷为嗣。
桓公义太子意，竟不听。
三十一年春，桓公卒，太子兹甫立，是为襄公。
以其庶兄目夷为相。
未葬，而齐桓公会诸侯于葵丘，襄公往会。
襄公七年，宋地霣星如雨，与雨偕下；六鶂退蜚，风疾也。
八年，齐桓公卒，宋欲为盟会。
十二年春，宋襄公为鹿上之盟，以求诸侯于楚，楚人许之。
公子目夷谏曰： 小国争盟，祸也。
不听。
秋，诸侯会宋公盟于盂。
translation: 
In the second year of Duke Huan, the princes attacked the Song Dynasty and withdrew their troops when they reached the outskirts of the Song capital.
In three years, Duke Huan of Qi began to dominate.
In the twenty-third year, the people of Wei State welcomed back Wei Gongzi Rui from Qi State and made him their king, who was called Wei Wen Gong.
Duke Wen of Wei's sister was Duke Huan's wife.
This year, Duke Mu of Qin succeeded to the throne.
Thirty years ago, Duke Huan of Song Dynasty was critically ill, and Prince Zifu asked his concubine brother Mu Yi to inherit the throne.
Although Song Huan Gong believed that the prince's idea was very moral, he did not agree in the end.
In the spring of the thirty-first year, Duke Huan of the Song Dynasty passed away, and Prince Zifu succeeded him as Duke Xiang.
Duke Xiang made his concubine brother Mu Yi the prime minister.
Before Duke Huan was buried, Duke Huan of Qi met with the princes of various countries in Kuiqiu. Duke Xiang had no choice but to go to Kuiqiu to attend the meeting.
In the seventh year of Duke Xiang, meteorites fell like rain in Song Dynasty. They fell together with the rain, and the six birds flew backward because the wind was too strong.
In the eighth year, Duke Huan of Qi passed away, and Duke Xianggang of Song wanted to form an alliance with the princes.
In the spring of the twelfth year, Song Xianggong wanted to convene the princes for an alliance at Lushang. Song Xianggong asked the Chu State to come forward to invite other princes to come, and the Chu State agreed to his request.
Prince Mu Yi came to remonstrate with Duke Xiang of the Song Dynasty, saying: If a small country competes to be the leader of an alliance, it will lead to disaster.
Duke Xiang couldn't listen to Mu Yi's advice.
In autumn, all the princes gathered with Song Gong in Yu to form an alliance.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
目夷曰： 祸其在此乎？
君欲已甚，何以堪之！
于是楚执宋襄公以伐宋。
冬，会于亳，以释宋公。
子鱼曰： 祸犹未也。
十三年夏，宋伐郑。
子鱼曰： 祸在此矣。
秋，楚伐宋以救郑。
襄公将战，子鱼谏曰： 天之弃商久矣，不可。
冬，十一月，襄公与楚成王战于泓。
楚人未济，目夷曰： 彼众我寡，及其未济击之。
公不听。
已济未陈，又曰： 可击。
公曰： 待其已陈。
陈成，宋人击之。
宋师大败，襄公伤股。
国人皆怨公。
公曰： 君子不困人于厄，不鼓不成列。
子鱼曰： 兵以胜为功，何常言与！
必如公言，即奴事之耳，又何战为？
translation: 
Muyi said: Will disaster happen here?
The king's desires are too much. How can a big country stand him?
Sure enough, Chu State arrested Song Xianggong and sent troops to attack Song State.
In winter, the princes met again at Haodi, and the Chu State released Song Xianggong.
Ziyu said: The disaster is not over yet.
In the summer of the thirteenth year, Song State attacked Zheng State.
Ziyu said: The disaster is here.
In autumn, Chu State attacked Song State in order to rescue Zheng State.
Song Xianggong is going to war. Ziyu came to remonstrate and said: God has abandoned Shang for a long time, so we must not fight again.
In winter, in November, Duke Xianggang of the Song Dynasty fought against King Cheng of Chu in Hongshui.
Before the Chu army had finished crossing the river, Mu Yi persuaded them: "The enemy is outnumbered and we are outnumbered, so we must attack them while they are crossing the river."
Duke Xiang did not listen to Mu Yi's opinion.
When the Chu army finished crossing the river and had not yet formed a formation, Mu Yi suggested again: It's time to attack.
But Duke Xiang said: Wait until they are ready to fight before fighting.
The Chu army was ready before the Song army went into battle.
As a result, the Song army was defeated and Xianggong was injured in his thigh.
Everyone in the Song Dynasty hated Duke Xiang.
Duke Xiang defended himself and said: A gentleman cannot take advantage of others' danger and cannot attack an army that is not in good formation.
Ziyu said: Winning the war is credit, what's the use of talking about empty truths!
If you really do what Duke Xiang said, then you can just become a slave for the Chu State. Why bother to fight with the Chu State?


Chunk 13: 
original: 
楚成王已救郑，郑享之；去而取郑二姬以归。
叔瞻曰： 成王无礼，其不没乎？
为礼卒于无别，有以知其不遂霸也。
是年，晋公子重耳过宋，襄公以伤于楚，欲得晋援，厚礼重耳以马二十乘。
十四年夏，襄公病伤于泓而竟卒，子成公王臣立。
成公元年，晋文公即位。
三年，倍楚盟亲晋，以有德于文公也。
四年，楚成王伐宋，宋告急于晋。
五年，晋文公救宋，楚兵去。
九年，晋文公卒。
十一年，楚太子商臣弑其父成王代立。
十六年，秦穆公卒。
十七年，成公卒。
成公弟御杀太子及大司马公孙固而自立为君。
宋人共杀君御而立成公少子杵臼，是为昭公。
昭公四年，宋败长翟缘斯于长丘。
七年，楚庄王即位。
九年，昭公无道，国人不附。
昭公弟鲍革贤而下士。
translation: 
King Cheng of Chu rescued Zheng Guo, who warmly entertained him. When King Cheng left, he married Zheng Jun's two daughters and returned to Chu.
Shu Zhan said: King Cheng of Chu does not understand etiquette, how can he die in peace?
There is no difference between internal and external etiquette. From here, we know that he will never achieve hegemony.
This year, Jin Gongzi Chong'er passed by the Song Dynasty. Because he was injured by the Chu Kingdom, Xianggong wanted to get help from the Jin Kingdom, so he gave Chong'er a generous gift and gave him eighty horses.
In the summer of the fourteenth year, Duke Xiang finally died of his leg injury during the Battle of Hongshui, and his son Chenggong Wangchen came to the throne.
In the first year of Chengdu, Duke Wen of Jin came to the throne.
Three years ago, the Song State broke its alliance with the Chu State and moved closer to the Jin State, because Song Xianggong had been kind to Jin Wengong.
In the fourth year, King Cheng of Chu attacked the Song Dynasty, and the Song Dynasty asked Jin for help.
In the fifth year of Jin Dynasty, Duke Wen of Jin came to the rescue of Song State, and the Chu army withdrew.
In the ninth year, Duke Wen of Jin passed away.
In the eleventh year, Prince Shang Chen of Chu killed his father and became king and ascended the throne.
In the sixteenth year, Duke Mu of Qin passed away.
In the seventeenth year, Duke Cheng died.
Chenggong's younger brother Yu killed the prince and Grand Sima Gongsun Gu, and established himself as king.
The people of Song Dynasty killed the king Yu and supported Chujiu, the youngest son of Duke Cheng. This was Duke Zhao.
In the fourth year of Zhaogong, the Song Dynasty defeated Changzhai Yuansi in Changqiu.
In the seventh year, King Zhuang of Chu came to the throne.
In the ninth year, Duke Zhao was ignorant and immoral, and the people did not rely on him.
Duke Zhao's younger brother Bao Ge was very virtuous and courteous to the corporal.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
先，襄公夫人欲通于公子鲍，不可，乃助之施于国，因大夫华元为右师。
昭公出猎，夫人王姬使卫伯攻杀昭公杵臼。弟鲍革立，是为文公。
文公元年，晋率诸侯伐宋，责以弑君。
闻文公定立，乃去。
二年，昭公子因文公母弟须与武、缪、戴、庄、桓之族为乱，文公尽诛之，出武、缪之族。
四年春，楚命郑伐宋。
宋使华元将，郑败宋，囚华元。
华元之将战，杀羊以食士，其御羊羹不及，故怨，驰入郑军，故宋师败，得囚华元。
宋以兵车百乘文马四百匹赎华元。
未尽入，华元亡归宋。
十四年，楚庄王围郑。
郑伯降楚，楚复释之。
十六年，楚使过宋，宋有前仇，执楚使。
九月，楚庄王围宋。
十七年，楚以围宋五月不解，宋城中急，无食，华元乃夜私见楚将子反。
子反告庄王。
王问： 城中何如？
translation: 
Once upon a time, Mrs. Xianggong wanted to have an affair with her son Bao, but failed, so she helped Bao do favors to the people. With the help of doctor Hua Yuan, he was elected as the right master.
When Zhaogong went hunting, his wife Wang Ji asked Wei Bo to kill Zhaogong Chujiu. Zhaogong's younger brother Bao Ge came to the throne. This was Duke Wen.
In the first year of Emperor Wen's reign, the Jin State led its princes to attack the Song State and condemned the Song State for killing its king Chujiu.
But when he heard that Duke Wen had been appointed king, he withdrew his troops.
In the second year, Zhao Gong's son launched a rebellion with the support of Wen Gong's half-brother Xu and the descendants of Wu Gong, Mu Gong, Dai Gong, Zhuang Gong and Huan Gong. Wen Gong killed them and expelled the descendants of Wu Gong and Mu Gong from Chu.
In the spring of the fourth year, Chu State asked Zheng State to attack Song State.
Song State sent Hua Yuan as its commander-in-chief. Zheng State defeated Song State and imprisoned Hua Yuan.
Hua Yuan killed a sheep to reward the soldiers before fighting the Zheng army. The man who drove him was very resentful because he did not eat the yokan, so he drove his car to the Zheng army. Therefore, the Song army failed and Hua Yuan was imprisoned.
The State of Song used 100 chariots and 400 horses with beautiful coats to redeem Hua Yuan.
Before these things were completely delivered to Chu State, Hua Yuan fled back.
In the fourteenth year, King Zhuang of Chu besieged the state of Zheng.
Zheng Bo surrendered to the Chu State, and the Chu State rescued the siege.
In the 16th year, an envoy from the Chu State passed by the Song State. The Song State arrested the Chu State envoy because of old grudges.
In September, King Zhuang of Chu surrounded the capital of Song.
In the seventeenth year, the Chu State besieged the capital of Song Dynasty for five months. The city was in dire straits and there was no food to eat, so Hua Yuan secretly met with the Chu generals one night to rebel.
Zifan told King Zhuang.
King Zhuang asked: How is it in the city?


Chunk 15: 
original: 
曰： 析骨而炊，易子而食。
庄王曰： 诚哉言！
我军亦有二日粮。
以信故，遂罢兵去。
二十二年，文公卒，子共公瑕立。
始厚葬。
君子讥华元不臣矣。
共公十年，华元善楚将子重，又善晋将栾书，两盟晋楚。
十三年，共公卒。
华元为右师，鱼石为左师。
司马唐山攻杀太子肥，欲杀华元，华元奔晋，鱼石止之，至河乃还，诛唐山。
乃立共公少子成，是为平公。
平公三年，楚共王拔宋之彭城，以封宋左师鱼石。
四年，诸侯共诛鱼石，而归彭城于宋。
三十五年，楚公子围弑其君自立，为灵王。
四十四年，平公卒，子元公佐立。
元公三年，楚公子弃疾弑灵王，自立为平王。
八年，宋火。
十年，元公毋信，诈杀诸公子。
大夫华、向氏作乱。
楚平王太子建来奔，见诸华氏相攻乱，建去如郑。
十五年，元公为鲁昭公避季氏居外，为之求入鲁，行道卒，子景公头曼立。
景公十六年，鲁阳虎来奔，已复去。
二十五年，孔子过宋，宋司马桓魋恶之，欲杀孔子，孔子微服去。
三十年，曹倍宋，又倍晋，宋伐曹，晋不救，遂灭曹有之。
三十六年，齐田常弑简公。
三十七年，楚惠王灭陈。荧惑守心。
translation: 
Zifan replied: The people in the city split human bones to make firewood and exchanged their young sons for food.
King Zhuang said: This is true!
We only have enough food to feed the army for two days.
The State of Chu withdrew its troops because of its loyalty.
In the twenty-second year, Duke Wen passed away, and his son Gong Gongxia was made king.
The Song Dynasty implemented rich burials for the first time.
The gentleman laughed at Hua Yuan for not fulfilling his duties as a minister.
In the tenth year of his reign, Hua Yuan had a good relationship with the Chu general Zizhong, and also had a close relationship with the Jin general Luan Shu, so he formed allies with both Jin and Chu.
In the thirteenth year, the public passed away.
Hua Yuan became the right master, and Yu Shi became the left master.
Sima Tangshan killed Prince Fei, and then planned to kill Hua Yuan. Hua Yuan wanted to flee to Jin, but was stopped by Yushi on the way. When he reached the Yellow River, he turned back and killed Sima Tangshan.
So, he supported the young son of Gong Gong, who became Ping Gong.
In the third year of Ping Gong's reign, the King of the Communist Party of Chu captured Pengcheng of the Song Dynasty and granted Pengcheng to Yushi, Zuo Shi of the Song Dynasty.
In four years, the princes united to kill Yushi and returned Pengcheng to the Song Dynasty.
In the thirty-fifth year, the prince of Chu besieged the king who killed him and ascended the throne. This was King Ling of Chu.
In the forty-fourth year, Duke Ping died, and his son Yuan Gongzuo came to the throne.
In the third year of Duke Yuan, Chu Gongzi abandoned his illness and killed the king and ascended the throne, becoming King Ping.
In eight years, a fire broke out in Song Dynasty.
In the past ten years, Duke Yuan was dishonest and used deceptive means to kill all the princes.
The officials Hua and Xiang raised armies one after another to cause chaos.
Prince Jian of King Ping of Chu fled to the State of Song. Seeing Hua and others attacking each other, he left the State of Song and ran to the State of Zheng.
In the fifteenth year, because Lu Zhaogong was living abroad to avoid the Ji family, Yuan Gong prayed for Lu Zhaogong to return to Lu. As a result, he died on the way, and his son Jinggong Touman came to the throne.
In the 16th year of Jinggong, Yang Hu of the state of Lu fled to the state of Song, and soon left again.
In the twenty-fifth year, Confucius passed by the Song Dynasty. Sima Huanxi of the Song Dynasty hated Confucius and wanted to kill him. Confucius put on civilian clothes and escaped from the Song Dynasty.
Thirty years later, Cao State broke its alliance with Song State and then broke its alliance with Jin State. Song State then attacked Cao State, but Jin State did not come to rescue, so Song State destroyed Cao State and occupied Cao State's territory.
In the thirty-sixth year, Qi State official Tian Chang killed the monarch Jian Gong.
In the thirty-seventh year, King Hui of Chu lost the Kingdom of Chen, and Mars invaded the Antares star region.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
心，宋之分野也，景公忧之。
司星子韦曰： 可移于相。
景公曰： 相，吾之股肱。
曰： 可移于民。
景公曰： 君者待民。
曰： 可移于岁。
景公曰： 岁饥民困，吾谁为君！
子韦曰： 天高听卑君有君人之言三，荧惑宜有动。
于是候之，果徙三度。
六十四年，景公卒。
宋公子特攻杀太子而自立，是为昭公。
昭公者，元公之曾庶孙也。
昭公父公孙纠，纠父公子褍秦，褍秦即元公少子也。
景公杀昭公父纠，故昭公怨杀太子而自立。
昭公四十七年卒，子悼公购由立。
悼公八年卒，子休公田立。
休公田二十三年卒，子辟公辟兵立。
辟公三年卒，子剔成立。
translation: 
Xinsu District is the territory of the Song Dynasty, and Jinggong is very worried about it.
Ziwei, who is in charge of the stars, said: The disaster can be transferred to the prime minister.
Jinggong said: "No, the Prime Minister is like my brothers and feet."
Ziwei added: "It can be passed on to the people."
Jinggong said: "No, the king relies on the people."
Ziwei said again: It can be transferred to annual achievements.
Jinggong said: "Not to mention, the harvest will fail and the people will be poor. Whose king should I be then?"
Ziwei said: Although the sky is high, you can still hear the subtle sounds of the lower world. You have said the three words that a king should say, and the Mars should have moved.
So I observed Mars carefully and found that Mars indeed moved three degrees.
In the sixty-fourth year, Jinggong passed away.
Song Gongzi killed the prince and ascended the throne. This was Zhao Gong.
Duke Zhao is the great-grandson of Duke Yuan.
Zhao Gong's father was Gongsun Jiu, Jiu's father was Gongzi Chu Qin, and Chu Qin was the youngest son of Duke Yuan.
Duke Jinggong killed Duke Zhao's father, Gongsun Jiu, so Duke Zhao resented the prince, so he killed him and took the throne himself.
Duke Zhao died in his forty-seventh year, and his son mourned him and made you the king.
After reigning for eight years, Duke Du passed away, and his son Xiu Gongtian came to the throne.
Xiu Gongtian died in the 23rd year of his reign, and his son came to the throne.
Pi Gong died after three years in office, and his son Ticheng came to the throne.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
剔成四十一年，剔成弟偃攻袭剔成，剔成败奔齐，偃自立为宋君。
君偃十一年，自立为王。
东败齐，取五城；南败楚，取地三百里；西败魏军，乃与齐、魏为敌国。
盛血以韦囊，县而射之，命曰 射天 。
淫于酒、妇人。
群臣谏者辄射之。
于是诸侯皆曰 桀宋 。 宋其复为纣所为，不可不诛 。
告齐伐宋。
王偃立四十七年，齐愍王与魏、楚伐宋，杀王偃，遂灭宋而三分其地。
太史公曰：孔子称 微子去之，箕子为之奴，比干谏而死，殷有三仁焉 。
《春秋》讥宋之乱自宣公废太子而立弟，国以不宁者十世。
襄公之时，修行仁义，欲为盟主。
其大夫正考父美之，故追道契、汤、高宗，殷所以兴，作《商颂》。
襄公既败于泓，而君子或以为多，伤中国阙礼义，褒之也，宋襄之有礼让也。
translation: 
During the forty-one year of Ticheng's reign, Ticheng's younger brother Yan attacked Ticheng. Ticheng failed and fled to Qi, where Yan established himself as the king of Song.
In the eleventh year, Yan himself was crowned king.
He defeated the State of Qi to the east and captured five cities; he defeated the State of Chu to the south and occupied more than 300 miles of Chu land; he defeated the State of Wei to the west and became enemies with Qi and Wei.
Jun Yan used a cowhide bag to hold the blood, hung it up and shot it with arrows, which was called "shooting the sky".
Jun Yan indulged in wine and sex all day long.
All ministers who gave advice and advice were shot to death by him with arrows.
So the princes all called him Jie Song. Song Junyan followed in the footsteps of King Zhou and did whatever he wanted, so he had to kill him.
The princes asked Qi to attack Song.
When King Yan of the Song Dynasty came to the throne forty-seven years, King Min of Qi joined forces with Wei and Chu to attack the Song State, killed Yan, destroyed the Song State, and divided the Song State's territory.
Tai Shigong said: Confucius said: Weizi left, Jizi became a slave, Bigan was killed when he came to remonstrate, and there were three benevolent people in the Yin Dynasty.
"Spring and Autumn" ridiculed that the turmoil in the Song Dynasty began when Duke Xuan deposed the prince and allowed his younger brother to take the throne. The country was unstable for ten generations.
When Duke Xiang was in power, he practiced benevolence and righteousness and wanted to be the leader of the alliance.
In order to praise him, his doctor Zheng Kaofu traced the reasons for the prosperity of the Yin Dynasty in the Qi, Tang and Gaozong periods and wrote "Ode to Shang".
Song Xianggong was defeated at Hongshui, but some gentlemen still thought he was worthy of praise. This was because the gentlemen lamented that the countries in the Central Plains region lacked etiquette at that time, so they commended him because Song Xianggong had a spirit of courtesy.


