Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝灵皇帝讳宏，肃宗玄孙也。
曾祖河间孝王开，祖淑，父苌。
世封解渎亭侯，帝袭侯爵。
母董夫人。
桓帝崩，无子，皇太后与父城门校尉窦武定策禁中，使守光禄大夫刘儵持节，将左右羽林至河间奉迎。
建宁元年春正月壬午，城门校尉窦武为大将军。
己亥，帝到夏门亭，使窦武持节，以王青盖车迎入殿中。
庚子，即皇帝位，年十二。
改元建宁。
以前太尉陈蕃为太傅，与窦武及司徒胡广参录尚书事。
使护羌校尉段颎讨先零羌。
二月辛酉，葬孝桓皇帝于宣陵，庙曰威宗。
庚午，谒高庙。
辛未，谒世祖庙。
大赦天下。
赐民爵及帛各有差。
段颎大破先零羌于逢义山。
闰月甲午，追尊皇祖为孝元皇，夫人夏氏为孝元皇后，考为孝仁皇，夫人董氏为慎园贵人。
夏四月戊辰，大尉周景薨。
司空宣酆免，长乐卫尉王畅为司空。
五月丁未朔，日有食之。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaoling, Liu Hong, was the great-great-grandson of Emperor Suzong.
His great-grandfather Liu Kai, the Xiaowang of Hejian, his grandfather Liu Shu, and his father Liu Chang.
Both his grandfather and father sealed the title of Marquis of Duting, and Liu Hong attacked the Marquis.
Mother, Mrs. Dong.
After the death of Emperor Huan, who had no children, the Empress Dowager Dou and her father, Chengmen school captain Dou Wudingce, sent the acting Guanglu doctor Liu Xian to hold the talisman and lead the left and right Yulin troops to Hejian to meet Liu Hong.
On the third day of the first spring of the first year of Jianning, Dou Wu, the captain of the city gate school, was appointed as the general.
On the 20th, Liu Hong came to Xiamen Pavilion in Luoyang, sent Dou Wu to hold the talisman festival, and used Wang Qingqing's chariot to welcome him into the palace.
On the 21st, he became emperor and was twelve years old.
Changed to Jianning.
Chen Fan, the former Taiwei, was appointed Taifu, and together with Dou Wu and Situ Huguang, he participated in the affairs of the general secretary.
Duan Yu, the captain who protects the Qiang, is sent to attack the Xianling Qiang.
On February 13th, Emperor Xiaohuan was buried in Xuanling, with the temple name Weizong.
On the 22nd, I paid a visit to the Gao Temple.
On the 23rd, I paid a visit to Shizu Temple.
Amnesty to the world.
The titles and silks given to the people varied.
Duan Jiong defeated the Xianling Qiang at Fengyi Mountain.
On the first day of the third month of the leap month, the imperial ancestor was named Emperor Xiaoyuan, his wife Xia was named Queen Xiaoyuan, his father was named Emperor Xiaoren, and his wife Dong was the noble lady of Shenyuan.
On the Wuchen day of April in the summer, Taiwei Zhou Jing passed away.
Sikong Xuanbang was dismissed from his post and appointed Changle Weiwei as Sikong.
On the first day of May, a solar eclipse occurs.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
诏公卿以下各上封事，及郡国守、相举有道之士各一人；又故刺史、二千石清高有遗惠、为众所归者，皆诣公车。
太中大夫刘矩为太尉。
六月，京师雨水。
秋七月，破羌将军段颎复破先零羌于泾阳。
八月，司空王畅免，宗正刘宠为司空。
九月辛亥，中常侍曹节矫诏诛太傅陈蕃、大将军窦武及尚书令尹勋、侍中刘瑜、屯骑校尉冯述，皆夷其族。
皇太后迁于南宫。
司徒胡广为太傅，隶尚书事。
司空刘宠为司徒，大鸿胪许栩为司空。
冬十月甲辰晦，日有食之。令天下系囚罪未决入缣赎，各有差。
十一月，太尉刘矩免，太仆沛国闻人袭为太尉。
十二月，鲜卑及濊貊寇幽、并二州。
二年春正月丁丑，大赦天下。
三月乙巳，尊慎园董贵人为孝仁皇后。
夏四月癸巳，大风，雨雹。
诏公卿以下各上封事。
五月，大尉闻人袭罢，司空许栩免。
六月，司徒刘宠为太尉，太常许训为司徒，太仆长沙刘嚣为司空。
translation: 
The ministers and ministers below were ordered to write secretly to make criticisms and suggestions on the state affairs, to report and expose, and to recommend one person to the governor of the county and the country. The former governor, Erqianshi Qinggao, who had left a legacy and was supported by the masses, all came to the bus door.
Liu Ju, the Taizhong doctor, was appointed Taiwei.
In June, it rains a lot in the capital.
In the autumn of July, General Duan Yin of Po Qiang defeated the Xianling Qiang again in Jingyang.
In August, Sikong Wang Chang was dismissed, and Zongzheng and Liu Chong were appointed as Sikong.
On the seventh day of the ninth lunar month, the official Cao Jie falsely claimed that the emperor had issued an order to kill Tai Fu Chen Fan, General Dou Wu, Shangshu Ling Yin Xun, Shi Zhong Liu Yu, and Tunqi Colonel Feng Shu. Their families were all killed.
The Empress Dowager moved to Nangong.
Situ Hu Guang was appointed as Taifu and in charge of the affairs of the Shangshu.
He appointed Sikong Liu Chong as Situ, and appointed Dahongxu Xu as Sikong.
Winter October 30th, solar eclipse. Order the prisoners in the world who have not yet been sentenced to make atonement for their sins. The number of punishments varies.
In November, Taiwei Liu Ju was dismissed from his post and appointed Pei Guo Wenren Raid as Taiwei.
In December, the Xianbei and Haoqi bandits raided You and merged with the two states.
In the spring of the second year, on the first month of the first lunar month, Ding Chou held a general amnesty for the whole world.
On the third day of March, Gui Dong of Zun Shen Garden was appointed Queen Xiaoren.
On April 22nd in the summer, strong winds blew and hail fell.
The ministers and ministers below were ordered to secretly submit criticisms and suggestions on state affairs, and report and expose them.
In May, the Taiwei heard about the attack and left, and Sikong Xu Xu was dismissed from his post.
In June, he appointed Situ Liu Chong as Taiwei, Taichang Xu Xun as Situ, and Taiwen Changsha Liu Xiao as Sikong.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
秋七月，破羌将军段颎大破先零羌于射虎塞外谷。
东羌悉平。九月，江夏蛮叛，州郡讨平之。
丹阳山越贼围太守陈夤，夤击破之。
冬十月丁亥，中常侍侯览讽有司奏前司空虞放、太仆杜密、长乐少府李膺、司隶校尉朱宇、颍川太守巴肃、沛相荀昱、河内太守魏朗、山阳太守翟超皆为钩党，下狱，死者百余人，妻子徙边，诸附从者锢及五属。
制诏州郡大举钩党，于是天下豪桀及儒学行义者，一切结为党人。
戊戌晦，日有食之。
十一月，太尉刘宠免，太仆郭禧为太尉。
鲜卑寇并州。
是岁，长乐太仆曹节为车骑将军，百余日罢。
三年春正月，河内人妇食夫，河南人夫食妇。
三月丙寅晦，日有食之。
夏四月，太尉郭禧罢，太中大夫闻人袭为太尉。
秋七月，司空刘嚣罢。
八月，大鸿胪桥玄为司空。
九月，执金吾董宠下狱死。
冬，济南贼起，攻东平陵。
郁林乌浒民相率内属。
四年春正月甲子，帝加元服，大赦天下。
translation: 
In the seventh month of the autumn, general Duan Yin of Po Qiang defeated the Xianling Qiang in the valley outside Shehu Fortress, and the Eastern Qiang were all pacified.
In September, the barbarians in Jiangxia rebelled, and the prefectures and counties subsided.
Danyangshan Yue thieves surrounded the prefect Chen Wei, but Chen Wei defeated them.
On October 19th in winter, Hou Lan, the minister of the Central Committee, ordered the stewards to participate in the performance of the former Sikong Yufang, the imperial servant Du Mi, the Changle Shaofu Li Ying, the Sili school captain Zhu Yu, the Yingchuan prefect Ba Su, the Pei prime minister Xun Yu, and the Hanoi prefect Wei. Lang and Zhai Chao, the prefect of Shanyang, were all members of the gang who led each other. They were arrested and imprisoned, and more than a hundred people died. Their wives were sent to remote areas. Anyone with incidental affiliations and relatives within five servers were imprisoned.
The emperor ordered the prefectures and counties to report and expose party members on a large scale, so all the heroes of the world and those who practiced Confucianism and righteousness were entangled into party members.
On the 30th, there was a solar eclipse.
In November, Taiwei Liu Chong was dismissed and his servant Guo Xi was appointed as Taiwei.
The Xianbei bandits plundered and merged the state.
This year, Cao Jie, the imperial servant of Changle, was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry, and he left in more than a hundred days.
In the first month of spring of the third year, a wife ate her husband in Hanoi, and a husband ate his wife in Henan.
On March 30th, there was a solar eclipse.
In April of summer, Taiwei Guo Xi was dismissed and appointed as Taiwei when the Taizhong doctor heard of the attack.
In autumn and July, Sikong Liu Xiao was dismissed.
In August, Dahongluqiaoxuan was appointed Sikong.
In September, Jinwu Dong Chong died in prison.
In winter, bandits appeared in Jinan and attacked Dongpingling.
The people of Yulin and Wuhu returned to the mainland together with each other.
On the third day of the first lunar month in the fourth year of spring, the emperor crowned the emperor and granted amnesty to the whole world.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
赐公卿以下各有差，唯党人不赦。
二月癸卯，地震，海水溢，河水清。
三月辛酉朔，日有食之。
太尉闻人袭免，太仆李咸为太尉。
诏公卿至六百石各上封事。
大疫，使中谒者巡行致医药。
司徒许训免，司空桥玄为司徒。
夏四月，太常来艳为司空。
五月，河东地裂，雨雹，山水暴出。
秋七月，司空来艳免。
癸丑，立贵人宋氏为皇后。
司徒桥玄免。
太常宗俱为司空，前司空许栩为司徒。
冬，鲜卑寇并州。
熹平元年春三月壬戌，太傅胡广薨。
夏五月己巳，大赦天下，改元熹平。
长乐太仆侯览有罪，自杀。
六月，京师雨水。
癸巳，皇太后窦氏崩。
秋七月甲寅，葬桓思皇后。
宦官讽司隶校尉段颎捕系太学诸生千余人。
冬十月，渤海王悝被诬谋反，丁亥，悝及妻子皆自杀。
translation: 
There are no differences between the ministers and the ministers. Only party members will not be forgiven.
On February 13, an earthquake occurred, the sea water overflowed, and the water of the Yellow River was clear.
On Xinyoushuo day in March, there was a solar eclipse.
When the Taiwei heard about the attack, he was dismissed from his post and appointed his servant Li Xian as the Taiwei.
The ministers were ordered to secretly submit letters to each of the six hundred stones, make criticisms and suggestions, and report and expose.
A serious epidemic caused the visitors to patrol and deliver medicine.
Situ Xu was exempted from training and appointed Sikong Qiaoxuan as Situ.
In the summer of April, Mrs. Ren came to visit Sikong.
In May, the ground cracked in the east of the river, hail fell, and the mountains and rivers burst out.
In July of autumn, Sikong Laiyan was dismissed from his post.
Guichou made the noble Song family the queen.
Situ Qiaoxuan was dismissed.
Taichang Zongji was appointed Sikong, and Xu Xu, the former Sikong, was appointed Situ.
In winter, Xianbei bandits plundered Bingzhou.
On the eighth day of the third spring of the first year of Xiping, Taifu Hu Guang passed away.
On May 16th in the summer, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country and changed to Yuan Xiping.
Hou Lan, the servant of Changle, was guilty and committed suicide.
In June, it rains a lot in the capital.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Empress Dowager Dou passed away.
On the second day of July in autumn, Queen Huansi was buried.
The eunuch ordered Duan Yu, the captain of the Sili school, to arrest more than a thousand people from the Imperial Academy.
In the winter of October, King Liu Kui of Bohai was falsely accused of treason. On the sixth day of the lunar month, Liu Kui and his wife committed suicide.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
十一月，会稽人许生自称 越王 ，寇郡县，遣杨州刺史臧旻、丹阳太守陈夤讨破之。
十二月，司徒许栩罢，大鸿胪袁隗为司徒。
鲜卑寇并州。
是岁，甘陵王恢薨。
二年春正月，大疫，使使者巡行致医药。
丁丑，司空宗俱薨。
二月壬午，大赦天下。
以光禄勋杨赐为司空。
三月，太尉李咸免。
夏五月，以司隶校尉段颎为太尉。
沛相师迁坐诬罔国王，下狱死。
六月，北海地震。
东莱、北海海水溢。
秋七月，司空杨赐免，太常颍川唐珍为司空。
冬十二月，日南徼外国重译贡献。
太尉段颎罢。
鲜卑寇幽、并二州。
癸酉晦，日有食之。三年春正月，夫馀国遣使贡献。
二月己巳，大赦天下。
太常陈耽为太尉。
三月，中山王畅薨，无子，国除。
夏六月，封河间王利子康为济南王，奉孝仁皇祀。
秋，洛水溢。
translation: 
In November, Xu Sheng from Kuaiji claimed to be the "King of Yue" and harassed the counties. He sent Zang Min, the governor of Yangzhou, and Chen Yin, the governor of Danyang, to attack and defeat them.
In December, Situ Xu Xu was dismissed and Da Honglu and Yuan Wei were appointed as Situ.
The Xianbei bandits plundered and merged the state.
In this year, Liu Hui, the king of Ganling, passed away.
In the first month of spring of the second year, there was a serious epidemic, and envoys were sent to inspect and deliver medicine.
On the 27th, Sikong Zongju passed away.
On the third day of February, there is a general amnesty.
Ren Guangluxun Yang Ci was appointed Sikong.
In March, Taiwei Li Xian was dismissed from his post.
In May of summer, Duan Yu, the captain of the Sili school, was appointed as the Taiwei.
Prime Minister Pei Shiqian was imprisoned for being falsely accused of deceiving the king.
In June, there was an earthquake in the North Sea.
Dongnai and Beihai overflowed with sea water.
In the seventh month of autumn, Sikong Yang was dismissed and appointed Taichang Yingchuan Tangzhen as Sikong.
In the winter of December, foreigners in the south of Japan came to translate languages ​​and make gifts.
Taiwei Duan was dismissed.
The Xianbei bandits plundered You and merged with the two states.
On the 29th, there was a solar eclipse. In the first month of the spring of the third year, Fuyu State sent envoys to present gifts.
On February 26th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
He appointed Taichang and Chen Dan as Taiwei.
In March, Liu Chang, the king of Zhongshan, passed away without any children, and the feudal state was abolished.
In June of summer, Liu Kang, the king of Hejian, was granted the title of King of Jinan and was enshrined in the Xiaorenhuang Temple.
In autumn, Luoshui overflows.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
冬十月癸丑，令天下系囚罪未决，入缣赎。
十一月，杨州刺史臧旻率丹阳太守陈寅，大破许生于会稽，斩之。
任城王博薨。
十二月，鲜卑寇北地，北地太守夏育追击破之。
鲜卑又寇并州。
司空唐珍罢，永乐少府许训为司空。
四年春三月，诏诸儒正《五经》文字，刻石立于太学门外。
封河间王建子佗为任城王。
夏四月，郡国七大水。
五月丁卯，大赦天下。
延陵园灾，遣使者持节告祠延陵。
鲜卑寇幽州。
六月，弘农、三辅螟。
遣守宫令之盐监，穿渠为民兴利。
令郡国遇灾者，减田租之半；其伤害十四以上，勿收责。
冬十月丁巳，令天下系囚罪未决，入缣赎。
拜冲帝母虞美人为宪园贵人，质帝母陈夫人为勃海孝王妃。
改平准为中准，使宦者为令，列于内署。
自是诸署悉以阉人为丞、令。
五年夏四月癸亥，大赦天下。
益州郡夷叛，太守李颙讨平之。
复崇高山名为嵩高山。
translation: 
On the fourteenth day of the tenth month in winter, it was ordered that all prisoners in custody who had not been sentenced should be punished by imprisonment.
In November, Zang Min, the governor of Yangzhou, led Chen Wei, the prefect of Danyang, to defeat Xu Sheng in Kuaiji and killed him.
Liu Bo, the king of Rencheng, passed away.
In December, the Xianbei bandits raided the north, and Xia Yu, the governor of the north, pursued and defeated them.
Xianbei invaders plundered Bingzhou again.
Sikong Tangzhen left and appointed Xu Xun, the young master of Yongle, as Sikong.
In the spring and March of the fourth year, he ordered the Confucians to correct the text of the Five Classics, carve it into a stone tablet and set it up outside the gate of Taixue.
Liu Tuo, the son of Liu Jian, the king of Hejian, was granted the title of King of Rencheng.
In the summer of April, there were floods in seven places in the county.
On the first day of May, there is a general amnesty.
There was a fire in Yanling Garden, and an envoy was sent to report the incident to Yanling Temple.
The Xianbei bandits plundered Youzhou.
In June, Hongnong and Sanfu were plagued by borers.
Send palace guards to the salt prison to run through the canals for the benefit of the people.
If the county suffers a disaster, half of the land rent will be reduced; if more than four-tenths of the damage is caused, the money owed will not be collected.
On October 23rd in winter, it was ordered that all prisoners in the country who had not been sentenced should be punished.
He worshiped Emperor Chong's mother, Yu Mei, as the noble lady of Xianyuan, and worshiped Emperor Zhi's mother, Mrs. Chen, as Princess Xiao of Bohai.
Change Pingzhun to Zhongzhun, entrust eunuchs to make orders, and list them in the internal affairs department.
Since then, all offices have eunuchs as prime ministers and ministers.
In the summer of the fifth year and in the fourth month of Guihai, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
The Yi people in Yizhou County rebelled, and the prefect Li Yong suppressed their rebellion.
The lofty mountain was restored and named Songgao Mountain.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
大雩。
使侍御史行诏狱亭部，理冤枉，原轻系，休囚徒。
五月，太尉陈耽罢，司空许训为太尉。
闰月，永昌太守曹鸾坐讼党人，弃市。
诏党人门生、故吏、父兄、子弟在位者，皆免官禁锢。
六月壬戌，太常南阳刘逸为司空。
秋七月，太尉许训罢，光禄勋刘宽为太尉。
冬十月壬午，御殿后槐树自拔倒竖。
司徒袁隗罢。
十一月丙戌，光禄大夫杨赐为司徒。
十二月，甘陵王定薨。
试太学生年六十以上百余人，除郎中、太子舍人至王家郎、郡国文学吏。
是岁，鲜卑寇幽州。
沛国言黄龙见谯。
六年春正月辛丑，大赦天下。
二月，南宫平城门及武库东垣屋自坏。
夏四月，大旱，七州蝗。
鲜卑寇三边。
市贾民为宣陵孝子者数十人，皆除太子舍人。
秋七月，司空刘逸免，卫尉陈球为司空。
translation: 
The Ozu Festival is held to pray for rain.
The imperial censor was sent to inspect the prisons where prisoners were detained under the imperial edict, and the pavilion guards who were in charge of catching thieves, clearing up unjust cases, pardoning prisoners who had committed misdemeanors and pardoning them according to their circumstances, and allowing prisoners who were doing hard labor to rest.
In May, Taiwei Chen Dan resigned and was appointed Sikong Xu Xun as Taiwei.
In the fifth month of the leap year, Cao Luan, the prefect of Yongchang, was killed in Huaili prison because he appealed for the party members.
The edict ordered that all disciples of Party members, former officials, fathers, brothers and children in office should be dismissed and never hired.
On the third day of June, Liu Yi, Taichang Nanyang, was appointed Sikong.
In the seventh month of autumn, Taiwei Xu Xun resigned and appointed Guang Luxun and Liu Kuan as Taiwei.
On October 24th in winter, the locust tree behind the palace uprooted itself and stood upright.
Situ Yuan Kai left.
In November Bingxu, Guanglu doctor Yang was granted the title of Situ.
In December, King Liu Ding of Ganling passed away.
More than 100 students who were over 60 years old in the exam were appointed as doctors, princes, princes, princes, princes, princes, princes, princes, princes, and county literary officials.
This year, the Xianbei bandits raided Youzhou.
Peiguo reported that Huanglong appeared in Qiao.
On the fifteenth day of the first month of the sixth year of spring, a general amnesty was held.
In February, the Nangong Pingcheng Gate and the Dongyuan House of the Arsenal were naturally destroyed.
In April, a major drought occurred and locust plagues occurred in seven states.
The Xianbei bandits raided the east, west and north sides.
Dozens of Jiamin in the city were filial sons of Xuanling, and all of them were appointed as Prince Sheren.
In the seventh month of autumn, Sikong Liu Yi was dismissed and appointed Wei Wei Chen Qiu as Sikong.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
八月，遣破鲜卑中郎将田晏出云中，使匈奴中郎将臧旻与南单于出雁门，护乌桓校尉夏育出高柳，并伐鲜卑，晏等大败。
冬十月癸丑朔，日有食之。太尉刘宽免。
帝临辟雍。
辛丑，京师地震。
辛亥，令天下系囚罪未决，入缣赎。
十一月，司空陈球免。
十二月甲寅，太常河南孟〈有彧〉为太尉。
庚辰，司徒杨赐免。
太常陈耽为司空。
鲜卑寇辽西。
永安太仆王旻下狱死。
光和元年春正月，合浦、交阯乌浒蛮叛，招引九真、日南民攻没郡县。
太尉孟〈有彧〉罢。
二月辛亥朔，日有食之。癸丑，光禄勋陈国袁滂为司徒。己未，地震。
始置鸿都门学生。
三月辛丑，大赦天下，改元光和。
太常常山张颢为太尉。
夏四月丙辰，地震。
侍中寺雌鸡化为雄。
司空陈耽免，太常来艳为司空。
五月壬午，有白衣人入德阳殿门，亡去不获。
六月丁丑，有黑气堕所御温德殿庭中。
秋七月壬子，青虹见御坐玉堂后殿庭中。
八月，有星孛于天市。
translation: 
In August, the Xianbei Zhonglang general Tian Yan was sent to Yunzhong, the Xiongnu Zhonglang general Zang Min and Nan Shanyu were sent to Yanmen, and the Wuhuan captain Xia Yu sent troops to Gaoliu to attack Xianbei. Tian Yan and others were defeated.
On the first day of October in winter, there is a solar eclipse. Taiwei Liu Kuan was dismissed from his post.
The emperor came to Piyong.
Xinchou, there was an earthquake in the capital.
Xinhai decreed that prisoners in custody in the world whose crimes have not yet been judged can be put into prison to atone for their sins.
In November, Sikong Chenqiu was dismissed from office.
On the third day of the twelfth lunar month, Meng Youyu of Taichang Henan Province was appointed Taiwei.
On the 29th, Situ Yangci was dismissed from office.
Ren Taichang and Chen Dan were appointed Sikong.
Xianbei bandits raided western Liaoning.
Wang Min, the servant of Yong'an Palace, was imprisoned and died.
In the first month of spring in the first year of Guanghe, Hepu and Jiaochang stopped the Wuhu barbarian rebellion, and attracted Jiuzhen and Rinan people to attack the counties.
Taiwei Meng (Youyu) was dismissed.
On the first day of February, there is a solar eclipse. On the third day of junior high school, he appointed Guang Luxun, Chen Guo and Yuan Pang as Situ. On the ninth day of the lunar month, an earthquake occurred.
Start setting up Hongdumen students.
On Xinchou Day in March, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the name was changed to Guanghe.
He appointed Zhang Hao from Taichang Mountain as Taiwei.
On the seventh day of April in summer, there was an earthquake.
The female chicken of Shizhong Temple turned into a rooster.
Sikong Chen Dan was dismissed from his post and Taichang Laiyan was appointed as Sikong.
On the third day of May, a man in white entered the gate of Deyang Palace and escaped without being captured.
On June 29, black energy fell into the Wende Palace Courtyard where the emperor lived.
In autumn, in the seventh month of Renzi, a green rainbow appeared in the courtyard behind the jade hall where the emperor sat.
The August comet appears in the sky star.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
九月，太尉张颢罢，太常陈球为太尉。司空来艳薨。
冬十月，屯骑校尉袁逢为司空。
皇后宋氏废，后父执金吾酆下狱死。
丙子晦，日有食之。
十一月，太尉陈球免。
十二月丁巳，光禄大夫桥玄为太尉。
是岁，鲜卑寇酒泉。
京师马生人。
初开西邸卖官，自关内侯、虎贲、羽林，入钱各有差。
私令左右卖公卿，公千万，卿五百万。
二年春，大疫，使常侍、中谒者巡行致医药。
三月，司徒袁滂免，大鸿胪刘郃为司徒。
乙丑，太尉桥玄罢，太中大夫段颎为太尉。
京兆地震。
司空袁逢罢，太常张济为司空。
夏四月甲戌朔，日有食之。辛巳，中常侍王甫及太尉段颎并下狱死。
丁酉，大赦天下，诸党人禁锢小功以下皆除之。
东平王端薨。
五月，卫尉刘宽为太尉。
秋七月，使匈奴中郎将张脩有罪，下狱死。
冬十月甲申，司徒刘郃、永乐少府陈球、卫尉阳球、步兵校尉刘纳谋诛宦者，事泄，皆下狱死。
巴郡板楯蛮叛，遣御史中丞萧瑗督益州刺史讨之，不克。
十二月，光禄勋杨赐为司徒。
鲜卑寇幽、并二州。
是岁，河间王利薨。
洛阳女子生儿，两头四臂。
translation: 
In September, Taiwei Zhang Hao resigned and Taichang Chen Qiu was appointed as Taiwei. Sikong Laiyan died.
In October of winter, Yuan Feng, the commander of the garrison cavalry school, became Sikong.
The Queen Song family was deposed, and the Queen's father was imprisoned by Jinwu Song Bang to death.
On the 30th, there was a solar eclipse.
In November, Taiwei Chen Qiu was dismissed.
On December 12, Qiao Xuan, the doctor of Guanglu, was appointed as Taiwei.
This year, Xianbei invaded Jiuquan.
In the capital, demons and horses give birth to people.
For the first time, the West Residence was opened to sell officials, and the money varied from Guannaihou, Huben, and Yulin.
Privately, he or she was ordered to sell the princes and princes for tens of millions and the princes and princes for five million.
In the spring of the second year, a great epidemic prevailed, so the regular attendants and visiting officials went on inspection tours and sent doctors and medicines.
In March, Situ Yuan Pang was dismissed and Dahonglu and Liu He were appointed Situ.
On the 22nd, Taiwei Qiaoxuan resigned and appointed Duan Yu, the senior official of Taizhong, as Taiwei.
An earthquake occurred in Beijing.
Sikong Yuan Feng was dismissed and Taichang Zhang Ji was appointed as Sikong.
On the first day of April in summer, there is a solar eclipse. On the eighth day of the lunar month, Wang Fu, the regular attendant, and Duan Zhen, the Taiwei, were both imprisoned to death.
On the 24th, there was a general amnesty for the whole country, and all party members who were implicated, including children and younger, were released from imprisonment.
Liu Duan, King of Dongping, passed away.
In May, Weiwei Liu Kuan was appointed Taiwei.
In the seventh month of autumn, Zhang Xiu, the commander-in-chief of the Huns, was convicted and died in prison after being imprisoned.
On October 14, winter, Situ Liu He, Yongle Shaofu Chen Qiu, Wei Wei Yangqiu, and Infantry Colonel Liu Na plotted to kill the eunuchs. The incident was leaked and they were all imprisoned.
Banxunman in Bajun rebelled, and Xiao Yuan, the censor Zhongcheng, was sent to urge the governor of Yizhou to attack, but he failed to win.
In December, he was appointed Situ by Guang Luxun and Yang Ci.
The Xianbei bandits plundered You and merged with two states.
In this year, Liu Li, the king of Hejian, passed away.
A woman in Luoyang gave birth to a son with two heads and four arms.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
三年春正月癸酉，大赦天下。
二月，公府驻驾庑自坏。
三月，梁王元薨。
夏四月，江夏蛮叛。
六月，诏公卿举能通《古文尚书》、《毛诗》、《左氏》、《穀梁春秋》各一人，悉除议郎。
秋，表是地震，涌水出。
八月，令系囚罪未决，入缣赎，各有差。
冬闰月，有星孛于狼、弧。
鲜卑寇幽、并二州。
十二月己巳，立贵人何氏为皇后。
是岁，作毕圭、灵昆苑。
四年春正月，初置騄骥厩丞，领受郡国调马。
豪右辜榷，马一匹至二百万。
二月，郡国上芝英草。
夏四月庚子，大赦天下。
交阯刺史朱俊讨交阯、合浦乌浒蛮，破之。
六月庚辰，雨雹。
秋七月，河南言凤皇见新城，群鸟随之；赐新城令及三老、力田帛，各有差。
九月庚寅朔，日有食之。太尉刘宽免，卫尉许〈有彧〉为太尉。
闰月辛酉，北宫东掖庭永巷署灾。
司徒杨赐罢。
冬十月，太常陈耽为司徒。
鲜卑寇幽、并二州。
是岁，帝作列肆于后宫，使诸采女贩卖，更相盗窃争斗。
translation: 
In the spring of the third year of the first lunar month, Guiyou, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In February, the parking lot of Sangong Mansion collapsed on its own.
In March, Liang Wang Liu Yuan passed away.
In April of summer, the barbarians in Jiangxia rebelled.
In the sixth month, the imperial edict recommended one person who was proficient in "Guwen Shangshu", "Mao Shi", "Zuo Shi", and "Gu Liang Chun Qiu" to be appointed as Yilang.
In autumn, there are earthquakes and gushing water.
In August, prisoners in custody whose crimes have not yet been judged can be punished by serving various punishments.
In the leap month of winter, comets appear on the two stars Wolf and Arc.
The Xianbei bandits harassed You and merged with two states.
On the fifth day of the twelfth lunar month, the noble He family was made queen.
This year, Sibigui Garden and Lingkun Garden were built.
In the spring of the fourth year and the first month of the first lunar month, horse-recording stables were set up to receive horses from the prefecture and state.
The powerful families have a monopoly, and the price of a horse is as high as two million.
In February, Zhiyingcao grows in the county.
In the fourth month of summer, Gengzi gave a general amnesty to the whole world.
Zhu Jun, the governor of Jiaozhi, attacked the Wuhu barbarians in Jiaozhi and Hepu and defeated them.
On June 19, there was hail.
In autumn and July, Henan reported that a phoenix appeared in the new city, followed by a flock of birds; the new city order and the three elders and Litian cloth were rewarded in varying amounts.
On the first day of September, there is a solar eclipse. Taiwei Liu Kuan was dismissed from his post, and Weiwei Xu Youyu was appointed as Taiwei.
On the second day of the leap September, a fire broke out in the Yongxiang Office in East Yeting, Beigong.
Situ Yangci left.
In the tenth month of winter, Taichang and Chen Dan were appointed as Situ.
Xianbei bandits plundered You and merged two states.
This year, the emperor built a series of shops in the inner palace where the concubines lived, allowing many colorful girls to do business. They stole from each other, fought and fought.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
帝著商估服，饮宴为乐。
又于西园弄狗，著进贤冠，带绶。
又驾四驴，帝躬自操辔，驱驰周旋，京师转相放效。
五年春正月辛未，大赦天下。
二月，大疫。
三月，司徒陈耽免。
夏四月，旱。
太常袁隗为司徒。
五月庚申，永乐宫署灾。
秋七月，有星孛于太微。
巴郡板楯蛮诣太守曹谦降。
癸酉，令系囚罪未决，入缣赎。
八月，起四百尺观于阿亭道。
冬十月，太尉许〈有彧〉罢，太常杨赐为太尉。
校猎上林苑，历函谷关，遂巡狩于广成苑。
十二月，还，幸太学。
六年春正月，日南徼外国重译贡献。
二月，复长陵县，比丰、沛。
三月辛未，大赦天下。
夏，大旱。
秋，金城河水溢。
五原山岸崩。
始置圃囿署，以宦者为令。
冬，东海、东莱、琅邪井中冰厚尺余。
大有年。
translation: 
The emperor wore the clothes of a businessman and held banquets, drinking and having fun.
He also played with dogs in the West Garden and made the dogs wear the crowns and ribbons used by civil servants.
He also harnessed the chariot to four donkeys, and the emperor personally drove and pulled the bridles. They galloped around, and the capitals followed suit.
On the fourteenth day of the first month of the fifth year of spring, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In February, a major epidemic occurred.
In March, Situ Chendan was dismissed from office.
In the summer of April, drought occurs.
He appointed Taichang Yuan Wei as Situ.
On the fifth day of May, Yongle Palace suffered a disaster.
In autumn in July, the comet appears in the Taiwei Star.
The Banxun barbarians of Bajun surrendered to the prefect Cao Qian.
Guiyou ordered that prisoners in custody who have not yet been sentenced can be put into prison to atone for their sins.
In August, he stood four hundred feet up and observed Ating Road.
In the tenth month of winter, Taiwei Xu "Youyu" was dismissed from his post, and Taichang Yang Ci was appointed as Taiwei.
The emperor surrounded and hunted Shanglin Garden, visited Guguan, and patrolled Guangcheng Garden.
In December, he returned to Beijing and inspected the Imperial College.
In the spring and first month of the sixth year, translators from foreign countries on the southern border of Japan came to know the language and contributed gifts.
In February, Changling County was restored and it was as abundant as abundant.
On March 21st, there was a general amnesty.
In summer, severe drought occurs.
In autumn, the Jincheng River overflows.
The Wuyuan mountain bank collapsed.
A nursery and confinement office was set up, with eunuchs as orders.
In winter, the ice in Donghai, Donglai and Langfu wells is more than a foot thick.
This year is a year of great harvest.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
中平元年春二月，巨鹿人张角自称 黄天 ，其部帅有三十六方，皆著黄巾，同日反叛。
安平、甘陵人各执其王以应之。
三月戊申，以河南尹何进为大将军，将兵屯都亭。
置八关都尉官。壬子，大赦天下党人，还诸徙者，唯张角不赦。
诏公卿出马、弩，举列将子孙及吏民有明战阵之略者，诣公车。
遣北中郎将卢植讨张角，左中郎将皇甫嵩、右中郎将朱俊讨颍川黄巾。
庚子，南阳黄巾张曼成攻杀郡守褚贡。
夏四月，太尉杨赐免，太仆弘农邓盛为太尉。
司空张济罢，大司农张温为司空。
朱俊为黄巾波才所败。
侍中向栩、张钧坐言宦者，下狱死。
汝南黄巾败太守赵谦于邵陵。
广阳黄巾杀幽州刺史郭勋及太守刘卫。
五月，皇甫嵩、朱俊复与波才等战于长社，大破之。
六月，南阳太守秦颉击张曼成，斩之。
交阯屯兵执刺史及合浦太守来达，自称 柱天将军 ，遣交阯刺史贾琮讨平之。
皇甫嵩、朱俊大破汝南黄巾于西华。
诏嵩讨东郡，朱俊讨南阳。
卢植破黄巾，围张角于广宗。
宦官诬奏植，抵罪。
遣中郎将董卓攻张角，不克。
洛阳女子生儿，两头共身。
秋七月，巴郡妖巫张脩反，寇郡县。
河南尹徐灌下狱死。
八月，皇甫嵩与黄巾战于仓亭，获其帅。
乙巳，诏皇甫嵩北讨张角。
九月，安平王续有罪诛，国除。
冬十月，皇甫嵩与黄巾贼战于广宗，获张角弟梁。
角先死，乃戮其尸。
以皇甫嵩为左车骑将军。
十一月，皇甫嵩又破黄巾于下曲阳，斩张角弟宝。
湟中义从胡北宫伯玉与先零羌叛，以金城人边章、韩遂为军帅，攻杀护羌校尉伶征、金城太守陈懿。
癸巳，朱俊拔宛城，斩黄巾别帅孙夏。
诏减太官珍羞，御食一肉；厩马非郊祭之用，悉出给军。
十二月己巳，大赦天下，改元中平。
是岁，下邳王意薨，无子，国除。
translation: 
In the spring and February of the first year of Zhongping, Zhang Jiao from Julu called himself "Huang Tian". Thirty-six commanders under his command, all wearing yellow scarves, rebelled on the same day.
The people of Anping and Ganling each took their kings Liu Xu and Liu Zhong hostage and rose up to respond.
On the third day of March, he appointed Henan Yin Hejin as the general and led his troops to garrison in the capital pavilion.
Set up the eight passes of Hangu, Guangcheng, Yique, Dugu, Longyuan, Xuanmen, Xiaopingjin and Mengjin. On the seventh day of the lunar month, all party members in the world were pardoned, and all those who had been exiled were recalled to their hometowns. Only Zhang Jiao was not pardoned.
The ministers were ordered to present their horses, bows and crossbows, and the descendants of the generals, officials and people who were shrewd in war strategies were recommended to come to the carriage door.
Send Bei Zhonglang's general Lu Zhi to attack Zhang Jiao, Zuo Zhonglang's general Huangfu Song, and You Zhonglang's general Zhu Jun to attack the Yingchuan Yellow Turbans.
Gengzi, Nanyang Yellow Turban Zhang Mancheng attacked and killed the governor Chu Gong.
In April of summer, Taiwei Yang Ci was dismissed from his post and his servant Hongnong Deng Sheng was appointed as Taiwei.
Sikong Zhang Ji resigned and was appointed as Sikong Zhang Wen.
Zhu Jun was defeated by Huang Jinbo.
Attendants Xiang Xu and Zhang Jun were imprisoned for gossiping about eunuchs.
The Runan Yellow Turbans defeated the prefect Zhao Qian in Shaoling.
The Yellow Turbans in Guangyang killed Guo Xun, the governor of Youzhou, and Liu Wei, the prefect.
In May, Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun fought against Bo Cai again in Changshe and defeated Bo Cai.
In June, Qin Jie, the governor of Nanyang, attacked Zhang Mancheng and killed him.
The troops stationed in Jiaozhi captured the governor and the prefect of Hepu and came to Da. They called themselves General Zhutian and sent Jia Cong, the governor of Jiaozhi, to attack and put down their rebellion.
Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun defeated the Runan Yellow Turbans in Xihua.
Huangfu Song was ordered to attack Dongjun, and Zhu Jun was ordered to attack Nanyang.
Lu Zhi broke the yellow scarf and surrounded Guangzong.
The eunuch falsely accused Lu Zhi of committing the crime.
He sent General Dong Zhuo to attack Zhangjiao, but failed to capture it.
There is a girl's son in Luoyang, and they live together.
In the seventh month of autumn, the witch Zhang Xiu of Ba County rebelled and raided the county.
Yinxu of Henan Province died in prison.
In August, Huangfu Song fought with the Yellow Turban in Cangting and captured its commander Bu Ji.
On the third day of the lunar month, Huangfu Songbei was ordered to attack Zhang Jiao.
In September, Anping King Liu Xu was found guilty and executed, and the feudal state was revoked.
In October of winter, Huangfu Song fought with Zhang Jiao in Guangzong and captured Zhang Jiao's younger brother Zhang Liang.
Zhang Jiao died first, and his body was killed in a coffin.
Huangfu Song was appointed as Zuo Chaqi General.
In November, Huangfu Song defeated the Yellow Turban again in Xiaquyang and killed Zhang Jiao's younger brother Zhang Bao.
Huang Zhongyi rebelled from Hu Beigong Boyu and the Xianling Qiang. He appointed Bian Zhang and Han Sui from Jincheng as military commanders and attacked and killed Ling Zheng, the captain of the Qiang School, and Chen Yi, the prefect of Jincheng.
On the 22nd, Zhu Jun captured Wancheng and beheaded Sun Xia, the commander-in-chief of the Yellow Turban.
The edict ordered the officials to reduce the number of expensive dishes and eat only meat; the stable horses were not used for suburban sacrifices, but were all used as military horses.
On December 29th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Zhongping.
In this year, Liu Yi, the king of Xiapi, passed away without any children, and the feudal state was revoked.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
郡国生异草，备龙蛇鸟兽之形。
二年春正月，大疫。
琅邪王据薨。
二月己酉，南宫大灾，火半月乃灭。
癸亥，广阳门外屋自坏。
税天下田，亩十钱。
黑山贼张牛角等十余辈并起，所在寇钞。
司徒袁隗免。
三月，廷尉崔烈为司徒。
北宫伯玉等寇三辅，遣左车骑将军皇甫嵩讨之，不克。
夏四月庚戌，大风，雨雹。
五月，太尉邓盛罢，太仆河内张延为太尉。
秋七月，三辅螟。
左车骑将军皇甫嵩免。
八月，以司空张温为车骑将军，讨北宫伯玉。
九月，特进杨赐为司空。
冬十月庚寅，司空杨赐薨，光禄大夫许相为司空。
前司徒陈耽、谏议大夫刘陶坐直言，下狱死。
十一月，张温破北宫伯玉于美阳，因遣荡寇将军周慎追击之，围榆中；又遣中郎将董卓讨先零羌。慎、卓并不克。
鲜卑寇幽、并二州。
是岁，造万金堂于西园。
洛阳民生儿，两头四臂。
translation: 
Strange grass grows in the county, taking the form of dragons, snakes, birds and beasts.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, the epidemic spread.
Langya King Liu Ju passed away.
On the tenth day of February, there was a big fire in Nangong. It took half a month to put out the fire.
On the 24th, the outer house of Guangyang Gate collapsed on its own.
In addition to regular taxes, taxes were levied based on the number of acres of land. Ten coins per mu were used to build palaces.
Black Mountain bandit Zhang Niujiao and more than a dozen other people got up together, harassed everywhere and looted property.
Situ Yuan Wei was dismissed.
In March, Tingwei Cui Lie was appointed Situ.
Beigong Boyu and other bandits plundered Sanfu and sent General Huangfu Song of the Left Chariot to attack them, but failed to win.
On April 12th in the summer, there was strong wind and hail.
In the fifth month, Taiwei Deng Sheng resigned and appointed Zhang Yan, Taiwei Hanoi, as Taiwei.
In autumn and July, three auxiliary borer plagues occur.
Huangfu Song, the left chariot general, was dismissed from his post.
In August, he appointed Sikong Zhang Wen as the general of chariots and cavalry to attack Beigong Boyu.
In September, Yang was given the title of Sikong.
In the winter of October, Gengyin, Sikong Yangci passed away, and Xu Xiang, the official of Guanglu, was appointed as Sikong.
Former Situ Chen Dan and admonishment doctor Liu Tao were imprisoned for speaking out.
In November, Zhang Wen defeated Beigong Boyu in Meiyang, and sent the gangster general Zhou Shen to pursue and surround Yuzhong. He also sent Zhonglang general Dong Zhuo to attack the Xianling Qiang. Neither Zhou Shen nor Dong Zhuo won.
The Xianbei bandits plundered You and merged with two states.
This year, Wanjin Hall was built in the West Garden.
The people of Luoyang are born with two heads and four arms.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
三年春二月，江夏兵赵慈反，杀南阳太守秦颉。
庚戌，大赦天下。
大尉张延罢。
车骑将军张温为太尉，中常侍赵忠为车骑将军。
复修玉堂殿，铸铜人四，黄钟四，及天禄、虾蟆，又铸四出文钱。
五月壬辰晦，日有食之。六月，荆州刺史王敏讨赵慈，斩之。
车骑将军赵忠罢。
秋八月，怀陵上有雀万数，悲鸣，因斗相杀。
冬十月，武陵蛮叛，寇郡界，郡兵讨破之。
前太尉张延为宦人所谮，下狱死。
十二月，鲜卑寇幽、并二州。
四年春正月己卯，大赦天下。
二月，荥阳贼杀中牟令。
己亥，南宫内殿罘罳自坏。
三月，河南尹何苗讨荥阳贼，破之，拜苗为车骑将军。
夏四月，凉州刺史耿鄙讨金城贼韩遂，鄙兵大败，遂寇汉阳，汉阳太守傅燮战没。
扶风人马腾、汉阳人王国并叛，寇三辅。
太尉张温免，司徒崔烈为太尉。
五月，司空许相为司徒，光禄勋沛国丁宫为司空。
六月，洛阳民生男，两头共身。
渔阳人张纯与同郡张举举兵叛，攻杀右北平太守刘政、辽东太守杨终、护乌桓校尉公綦稠等。
举自称天子，寇幽、冀二州。
秋九月丁酉，令天下系囚罪未决，入缣赎。
冬十月，零陵人观鹄自称 平天将军 ，寇桂阳，长沙太守孙坚击斩之。
translation: 
In the spring and February of the third year, Zhao Ci, a soldier from Jiangxia, rebelled and killed Qin Jie, the prefect of Nanyang.
On the 16th, a general amnesty was given to the whole world.
Taiwei Zhang Yan left.
Zhang Wen, the chariot general, was appointed as Taiwei, and Zhao Zhong, the regular servant, was appointed as chariot general.
The Jade Hall was restored, four bronze figures, four yellow bells, Tianlu beasts, shrimps, etc. were cast, and four coins were cast.
May 30th, solar eclipse. In June, Wang Min, the governor of Jingzhou, attacked Zhao Ci and killed him.
Chariot and Cavalry General Zhao Zhong leaves.
In autumn and August, there are tens of thousands of birds on Emperor Chong's Huailing Mausoleum, gathering together to scream and peck and kill each other.
In the winter of October, the Wuling barbarians rebelled and raided the county boundaries. The county soldiers attacked and defeated them.
Former Taiwei Zhang Yan was framed by eunuchs and imprisoned to death.
In December, the Xianbei bandits raided You and merged with two states.
On the twenty-first day of the first month of the fourth year of spring, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In February, Xingyang thieves killed Zhong Mou Ling.
On the 11th, the inner hall of the Nangong and the Ququ Pavilion were destroyed by themselves.
In March, Yin Hemiao of Henan attacked the Xingyang bandits and defeated them. He Miao was awarded the title of General of Chariots and Cavalry.
In April of summer, Liangzhou governor Geng Bi attacked the Jincheng bandit Han Sui, and Geng Bi's army was defeated. Han Sui invaded Hanyang and Fu Xie, the prefect of Hanyang, died in the battle.
The Fufeng people Ma Teng and the Hanyang people rebelled at the same time, and the bandits plundered the three auxiliaries.
Taiwei Zhang Wen was dismissed from his post and appointed Situ Cui Lie as Taiwei.
In May, he appointed Sikong Xuxiang as Situ, and Guanglu Xunpei Guoding Palace as Sikong.
In June, Luoyang Minsheng male, both ends share the same body.
Zhang Chun from Yuyang and Zhang Ju from the same county rebelled and attacked and killed Liu Zheng, the governor of Beiping, Yang Zhong, the governor of Liaodong, Gong Qichou, the governor of Wuhuan School, and others.
Zhang Ju claimed to be the emperor and raided Youzhou and Jizhou.
On September 13th in the autumn, it is ordered that all prisoners in custody who have not yet been sentenced can be put into prison to atone for their sins.
In the tenth month of winter, Guan Hu, a native of Lingling, called himself "General Pingtian" and raided Guiyang. Sun Jian, the governor of Changsha, attacked and killed him.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
十一月，太尉崔烈罢，大司农曹嵩为太尉。
十二月，休屠各胡叛。
是岁，卖关内侯，假金印紫绶，传世，入钱五百万。
五年春正月，休屠各胡寇西河，杀郡守邢纪。
丁酉，大赦天下。
二月，有星孛于紫宫。
黄巾余贼郭太等起于西河白波谷，寇太原、河东。
三月，休屠各胡攻杀并州刺史张懿，遂与南匈奴左部胡合，杀其单于。
夏四月，汝南葛陂黄巾攻没郡县。
太尉曹嵩罢。
五月，永乐少府樊陵为太尉。
六月丙寅，大风。
太尉樊陵罢。
益州黄巾马相攻杀刺史郗俭，自称天子，又寇巴郡，杀郡守赵部，益州从事贾龙击相，斩之。
郡国七大水。
秋七月，射声校尉马日磾为太尉。
八月，初置西园八校尉。
司徒许相罢，司空丁宫为司徒。
光禄勋南阳刘弘为司空。
卫尉董重为票骑将军。
九月，南单于叛，与白波贼寇河东。
translation: 
In November, Cui Lie, the Taiwei, resigned and appointed Cao Song, the chief minister, as the Taiwei.
In December, Xiutu Gehu rebelled.
This year, the Marquis of Guan Nei was sold and given a gold seal and purple ribbon, which could be passed down to descendants for generations, and he paid five million.
In the first month of the spring of the fifth year, Xiu massacred all the barbarian bandits and raided Xihe, killing the county governor Xing Ji.
On the 15th, a general amnesty was given to the whole world.
The February Comet appears in the constellation Purple House.
The remaining Yellow Turban bandits Guo Tai and others started in the Baibo Valley of the Xihe River and raided Taiyuan and Hedong.
In March, Xiutu Gehu attacked and killed Zhang Yi, the governor of Bingzhou, and joined forces with the Hu people from the left of the Southern Xiongnu to kill the Chanyu of the Southern Xiongnu.
In April of summer, the Yellow Turbans of Runan Gepi captured the counties.
Taiwei Cao Song goes away.
In May, he appointed Fan Ling, the Shaofu of Yongle, as Taiwei.
June 16, strong wind.
Taiwei Fan Ling leaves.
The Yellow Turban Ma Prime Minister of Yizhou attacked and killed hope Jianjian, the governor, claiming to be the emperor. He also plundered Bajun and killed the county governor Zhao Bu. Jia Long, the governor of Yizhou, attacked Ma Prime Minister and killed him.
Floods occurred in seven places in the county.
In the autumn of July, Ma Rishidan, the captain of Shesheng School, was appointed as Taiwei.
In August, eight captains were set up in Xiyuan: the upper army, the middle army, the lower army, the dian army, the left army, the right army, the assistant army left, and the assistant army right.
Situ Xu resigned and appointed Sikong Dinggong as Situ.
Ren Guang Luxun Nanyang Liu Hong was appointed Sikong.
He appointed Weiwei Dong Chong as General of Hussars.
In September, Nan Shanyu rebelled and raided Hedong with Baibo bandits.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
遣中郎将孟益率骑都尉公孙瓒讨渔阳贼张纯等。
冬十月，青、徐黄巾复起，寇郡县。
甲子，帝自称 无上将军 ，燿兵于平乐观。
十一月，凉州贼王国围陈仓，右将军皇甫嵩救之。
遣下军校尉鲍鸿讨葛陂黄巾。
巴郡板楯蛮叛，遣上军别部司马赵瑾讨平之。
公孙瓒与张纯战于石门，大破之。
是岁，改刺史，新置牧。
六年春二月，左将军皇甫嵩大破王国于陈仓。
三月，幽州牧刘虞购斩渔阳贼张纯。
下军校尉鲍鸿下狱死。
夏四月丙午朔，日有食之。太尉马日磾免，幽州牧刘虞为太尉。
丙辰，帝崩于南宫嘉德殿，年三十四。
戊午，皇子辩即皇帝位，年十七。
尊皇后曰皇太后，太后临朝。
大赦天下，改元为光熹。
封皇弟协为渤海王。
后将军袁隗为太傅，与大将军何进参录尚书事。
上军校尉蹇硕下狱死。
五月辛巳，票骑将军董重下狱死。
六月辛亥，孝仁皇后董氏崩。
辛酉，葬孝灵皇帝于文陵。
雨水。
translation: 
He sent Zhonglang General Meng Yi to lead the cavalry captain Gongsun Zan to attack the Yuyang bandit Zhang Chun and others.
In October of winter, the Yellow Turbans rose again in Qingzhou and Xuzhou and raided counties.
On the 16th, the emperor proclaimed himself "Supreme General" and reviewed the army in Pingtang.
In November, the Liangzhou bandit kingdom surrounded Chencang, and the right general Huangfu Song went to help.
He sent military captain Bao Hong to attack the Yellow Turbans in Gebei.
The Banchen barbarians in Bajun rebelled, and Sima Zhao Jin of the Shanxi Army was sent to attack them and quell the rebellion.
Gongsun Zan fought with Zhang Chun at Shimen, and Zhang Chun was defeated.
This year, the governor was changed and a new pastor was established.
In the spring and February of the sixth year, the left general Huangfu Song defeated the kingdom in Chencang.
In February, Liu Yu, the shepherd of Youzhou, offered a reward for killing the Yuyang bandit Zhang Chun.
Bao Hong, the lieutenant of the military academy, died in prison.
On the first day of April in summer, there is a solar eclipse. Taiwei Ma Rishidan was dismissed from his post and Liu Yu, the shepherd of Youzhou, was appointed as Taiwei.
On the eleventh day, the emperor passed away in the Jiade Hall of Nangong. Year thirty-four.
On the 13th, Prince Bian became emperor at the age of seventeen.
Respect the queen as the empress dowager, and the empress dowager is in court.
He granted amnesty to the world and changed his name to Guangxi.
The emperor's younger brother Liu Xie was granted the title of King of Bohai.
Later, General Yuan Wei was appointed as Taifu, and he and General He Jin participated in the affairs of the general secretary.
Jian Shuo, the captain of the military academy, died in prison.
On the sixth day of the fifth lunar month, Dong Chong, the hussar general, died in prison.
On the seventh day of June, Empress Xiaoren Dong passed away.
On the 17th, Emperor Xiaoling was buried in Wenling.
Lots of rain.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
秋七月，甘陵王忠薨。
庚寅，孝仁皇后归葬河间慎陵。
徙渤海王协为陈留王。
司徒丁宫罢。
八月戊辰，中常侍张让、段珪杀大将军何进，于是虎贲中郎将袁术烧东西宫，攻诸宦者。
庚午，张让、段珪等劫少帝及陈留王幸北宫德阳殿。
何进部曲将吴匡与车骑将军何苗战于朱雀阙下，苗败，斩之。
辛末，司隶校尉袁绍勒后收伪司隶校尉樊陵、河南尹许相及诸阉人，无少长皆斩之。
让、珪等复劫少帝、陈留王走小平津。
尚书卢植追让、珪等，斩数人，其余投河而死。
帝与陈留王协夜步逐荧光行数里，得民家露车，共乘之。
辛未，还宫。
大赦天下，改光熹为昭宁。
并州牧董卓杀执金吾丁原。
司空刘弘免，董卓自为司空。
九月甲戌，董卓废帝为弘农王。
自六月雨，至于是月。
translation: 
In the seventh month of autumn, Liu Zhong, the king of Ganling, passed away.
On the 16th, Queen Xiaoren was buried in Shenling Mausoleum in Hejian.
Liu Xie, the king of Bohai, was transferred to King Chenliu.
Let's go to Situ Ding Palace.
On August 25, Zhang Rang, Duan Wanggui and others killed the general He Jin, so Huben Zhonglang sent Yuan Shu to burn the East and West palaces and attack the eunuchs.
On the 27th, Zhang Rang, Duan Wanggui and others kidnapped the young emperor and Chenliu King Liu Xie to the Deyang Hall of the North Palace.
He Jin's troops fought Wu Kuang and the cavalry general He Miao under the Zhuque Tower. He Miao defeated and beheaded Wu Kuang.
On the 28th, Sili Colonel Yuan Shao led the army to arrest the puppet Sili Colonel Fan Ling, Henan Yin Xuxiang and many eunuchs, and killed them all regardless of their junior or senior status.
Zhang Rang, Duan Wanggui and others kidnapped the young emperor and Chenliu King Liu Xie to Xiaopingjin.
Shangshu Lu Zhi chased Zhang Rang, Duan Wanggui and others, beheading several of them, while the rest threw themselves into the Yellow River and drowned.
The emperor and Chenliu Wang Liu Xie walked for several miles in the dark, following the weak fluorescent light. They got into an open carriage without a scarf and curtains, which was used by ordinary people to carry things, and they rode together.
On the 28th, the emperor returned to the palace.
He granted amnesty to the world and changed Guangxi to Zhaoning.
Dong Zhuo, the governor of Bingzhou, killed Jinwu Dingyuan.
Liu Hong was dismissed as Sikong, and Dong Zhuo became Sikong.
On the first day of September, Dong Zhuo deposed the emperor as King Hongnong.
It rained since June until this month.


