Chunk 0: 
original: 
铫期字次况，颍川郏人也。
长八尺二寸，容貌绝异，矜严有威。
父猛，为桂阳太守，卒，期服丧三年，乡里称之。
光武略地颍川，闻期志义，召署贼曹掾，从徇蓟。
时，王郎檄书到蓟，蓟中起兵应郎。
光武趋驾出，百姓聚观，喧呼满道，遮路不得行，期骑马奋戟，瞋目大呼左右曰 跸 ，众皆披靡。
及至城门，门已闭，攻之得出。
行至信都，以期为裨将，与傅宽、吕晏俱属邓禹。
徇傍县，又发房子兵。禹以期为能，独拜偏将军，授兵二千人，宽、晏各数百人。
还言其状，光武甚善之。
使期别徇真定宋子，攻拔乐阳、槁、肥累。
从击王郎将皃宏、刘奉于巨鹿下，期先登陷陈，手杀五十余人，被创中额，摄帻复战，遂大破之。
王郎灭，拜期虎牙大将军。
乃因间说光武曰： 河北之地，界接边塞，人习兵战，号为精勇。
translation: 
Yao Qi, whose courtesy name is Ci Kuang, was born in Jiaxian County, Yingchuan County.
He is eight feet two inches long, has a very strange appearance, is solemn and majestic.
His father, Yao Meng, was the governor of Guiyang. After his death, Yao spent three years in mourning for him, and everyone in the village praised him.
Guangwu raided Yingchuan. Hearing that Yao Qi was very ambitious, he summoned the thief Cao Yu to follow him and attack Ji.
At that time Wang Lang sent a message to Ji, and Ji Zhong raised troops to respond to Wang Lang.
Guangwu's chariots drove out, and the people gathered to watch. The roads were crowded with noise and chariots could not pass. Yaoqi rode on horseback and raised his halberd, glaring angrily and shouting "guards" to the left and right, and the spectators retreated one after another.
When they arrived at the city gate, the gate was closed, so they broke through the city gate and left.
When he arrived at Xindu, he took Zhao Qi as his assistant general. He, Fu Kuan and Lu Yan all belonged to Deng Yu.
After attacking a nearby county, he also sent out soldiers. Deng Yu thought that Yao Qi was capable, so he paid homage to the partial generals alone and awarded him 2,000 soldiers, including several hundred soldiers each to Fu Kuan and Lu Yan.
After returning, he reported the situation to Guangwu, who was very complimentary.
He sent Yaoqi to attack Zhending Songzi and captured the counties of Leyang, Gaohe and Fei.
Following Deng Yu, he attacked Wang Lang's generals Erhong and Liu Feng under a huge deer. Yaoqi took the lead and captured the enemy's formation. He killed more than fifty people with his own hands and was wounded in the forehead. He tied the wound with a turban and fought again, thus defeating the enemy.
After Wang Lang was killed, he worshiped Yao Qi as General Huya.
So he took the opportunity and said to Guangwu: "In the land of Hebei, which borders the border fortress, people practice military warfare and are known as elite and brave people."


Chunk 1: 
original: 
今更始失政，大统危殆，海内无所归往。
明公据河山之固，拥精锐之众，以顺万人思汉之心，则天下谁敢不从？ 光武笑曰： 卿欲遂前跸邪？ 时，铜马数十万众入清阳、博平，期与诸将迎击之，连战不利，期乃更背水而战，所杀伤甚多。
会光武救至，遂大破之，追至馆陶，皆降之。
从击青犊、赤眉于射犬，贼袭期辎重，期还击之，手杀伤数十人，身被三创，而战方力，遂破走之。
光武即位，封安成侯，食邑五千户。
时，檀乡、五楼贼入繁阳、内黄，又魏郡大姓数反复，而更始将卓京谋欲相率反邺城。帝以期为魏郡太守，行大将军事。
期发郡兵击卓京，破之，斩首六百余级。
京亡入山，追斩其将校数十人，获京妻子。
进击繁阳、内黄，复斩数百级，群界清平。
督盗贼李熊，邺中之豪，而熊弟陆谋欲反城迎檀乡。
或以告期，期不应，告者三四，期乃召问熊。
熊叩头首服，愿与老母俱就死。
translation: 
Now that the reform has failed, the unification of the Han Dynasty is in crisis, and there is no way to return to the country.
The Ming Dynasty took control of the mountains and rivers of Hebei, supported the elite people, and obeyed the hearts of thousands of people who longed for the Han Dynasty. Who in the world would dare not to obey? Guangwu smiled and said: Do you want to call the police like before? At that time, hundreds of thousands of bronze horses entered Qingyang and Boping. Yaoqi and his generals attacked them. The battle was unfavorable. Yaoqi fought against the water even more, killing many enemies.
It happened that Guangwu's reinforcements arrived, so they defeated the enemy and chased them to Guantao, where all the bronze horses surrendered.
Following Ji Qing Du and Chi Mei Yu She Dog, the bandits attacked Yao Qi's baggage. Yao Qi fought back, killing dozens of people with his own hands and being wounded in three places on his body. However, he continued to fight hard, defeated the enemy and drove them away.
Guangwu ascended the throne and was granted the title of Marquis of Ancheng, with a settlement of 5,000 households.
At that time, Tanxiang and Wulou thieves entered Fanyang, Neihuang, and the Wei capital several times, and Gengshi general Zhuo Jing was planning to lead a rebellion in Yecheng. The emperor appointed Yaoqi as the prefect of Wei County to perform the affairs of the general.
Yao Qi sent county soldiers to attack Zhuo Jing, defeated him, and beheaded more than 600 people.
Zhuo Jing rushed to the mountains, and Yao Qi chased and killed dozens of his generals and captured Zhuo Jing's wife and children.
They also attacked Fanyang and Neihuang, and beheaded hundreds of people, and the county boundaries were peaceful.
The thief Li Xiong is a strong man in Ye. Li Xiong's younger brother Li Lu wants to plot a rebellion in the city to welcome Tanxiang.
Some people reported to Yaoqi, but Yaoqi did not respond. They complained three or four times, and Yaoqi summoned Li Xiong for questioning.
Li Xiong kowtowed and surrendered, willing to die with his mother.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
期曰： 为吏傥不若为贼乐者，可归与老母往就陆也。 使吏送出城。
熊行求得陆，将诣邺城西门。
陆不胜愧感，自杀以谢期。
期嗟叹，以礼葬之，而还熊故职。
于是郡中服其威信。
建武五年，行幸魏郡，以期为太中大夫。
从还洛阳，又拜卫尉。
期重于信义，自为将，有所降下，未尝虏掠。
及在朝廷，忧国爱主，其有不得于心，必犯颜谏诤。
帝尝轻与期门近出，期顿首车前曰： 臣闻古今之戒，变生不意，诚不愿陛下微行数出。 帝为之回舆而还。
十年卒，帝亲临襚敛，赠以卫尉、安成侯印绶，谥曰忠侯。
子丹嗣。
复封丹弟统为建平侯。
后徒封丹葛陵侯。
丹卒，子舒嗣。
舒卒，子羽嗣。
羽卒，子蔡嗣。
王霸字元伯，颍川颍阳人也。
世好文法，父为郡决曹掾，霸亦少为狱吏。
常慷慨不乐吏职，其父奇之，遣西学长安。
translation: 
Yao Qi said: If being an official is not as happy as being a thief, you can go back to Li Lu's place with your mother. Send officials to escort him out of the city.
Li Xiong left to see Li Lu and was about to arrive at the west gate of Yecheng.
Li Lu was so ashamed and grateful that he committed suicide to thank Yaoqi.
Yaoqi sighed, buried him with ceremony, and restored Li Xiong to his original position.
So everyone in Weijun was convinced of his authority.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Guangwu traveled to Wei County and appointed Yaoqi as Taizhong doctor.
He followed Guangwu back to Luoyang and paid homage to the Weiwei.
Yaoqi is more important than faith. Since he became a general, he often sent troops to the city, but he never captured the people.
Serving in the imperial court, caring about the country and loving the Lord, and if there is anything that has to be remonstrated, it must be a crime to remonstrate.
The emperor once made light of himself to go in and out of Qi's gate. Yao Qi kowtowed in front of his chariot and said: I have heard the warnings of ancient and modern times, things often happen unexpectedly, and I really don't want your Majesty to reveal them in detail. The emperor returned the car for him.
In the tenth year of Jianwu's death, the emperor came in person to present the deceased with clothes, as well as the seals and ribbons of Weiwei and Anchenghou, and was given the posthumous title of Zhonghou.
Zi Yaodan succeeded to the throne.
He also granted the title of Marquis of Jianping to his brother Yaotong.
Later, Yao Dan was granted the title of Marquis of Ge Ling.
Yao Dan passed away, and his son Yao Shu succeeded him.
Yaoshu passed away and was succeeded by his son Yaoyu.
Yao Yu passed away and was succeeded by his son Yao Cai Si.
Wang Ba, whose courtesy name was Yuan Bo, was from Yingyang, Yingchuan.
He has been fond of the legal system for generations. His father was a county magistrate, and Ba himself was a jailer when he was young.
He often lamented that he was not happy with his official position. His father felt strange and sent him west to Chang'an to study.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
汉兵起，光武过颍阳，霸率宾客上谒，曰： 将军兴义兵，窃不自知量，贪慕威德，愿充行伍。 光武曰： 梦想贤士，共成功业，岂有二哉！ 遂从击破王寻、王邑于昆阳，还休乡里。
及光武为司隶校尉，道过颍阳，霸请其父，愿从。
父曰： 吾老矣，不任军旅，汝往，勉之！ 霸从至洛阳。
及光武为大司马，以霸为功曹令史，从度河北。
宾客从霸者数十人，稍稍引去。
光武谓霸曰： 颍川从我者皆逝，而子独留。
努力！
疾风知劲草。
及王郎起，光武在蓟，郎移檄购光武。
光武令霸至市中募人，将以击郎。
市人皆大笑，举手邪揄之，霸惭懅而还。
光武即南驰至下曲阳。
传闻王郎兵在后，从者皆恐。
及至虖沱河，候吏还白河水流澌，无船，不可济。
官属大惧。
光武令霸往视之。
霸恐惊众，欲且前，阻水，还即跪曰： 冰坚可度。 官属皆喜。
光武笑曰： 候吏果妄语也。 遂前。
比至河，河冰亦合，乃令霸护度，未毕数骑而冰解。
translation: 
When the Han soldiers rose up and Guangwu passed through Yingyang, Wang Ba led his guests to meet him and said: "The general is raising righteous soldiers. I don't know what I think. I am greedy for the general's power and virtue, and I am willing to join the army." Guangwu said: I dream of wise men to achieve success together, how can it be different! So Cong Guangwu defeated Wang Xun and Wang Yi in Kunyang, and then rested in the countryside.
When Guangwu became the captain of Sili school and passed through Yingyang, Wang Ba asked his father for instructions, hoping to follow Guangwu.
His father said: I am old and not qualified for military service. You go and do your best! Wang Ba and Guangwu went to Luoyang.
When Guangwu became the Grand Sima, he took Wang Ba as his meritorious officer and ordered him to cross Hebei.
The guests followed Wang Ba's dozens of people and gradually left.
Guangwu said to Wang Ba: All the people who followed me in Yingchuan have left, but you are left alone.
effort!
The strong wind knows the strong grass.
When Wang Lang raised his troops, Guangwu was at Ji. Wang Lang sent a letter offering a reward for Guangwu's capture.
Guangwu ordered Wang Ba to go to the city to recruit people and prepare to attack Wang Lang.
The people in the city laughed and raised their hands to tease and ridicule. The king was ashamed and cowardly and returned.
Guangwu immediately galloped south to Xiaquyang.
It was rumored that Wang Lang's soldiers were behind him, and everyone who followed him was afraid.
When we arrived at the Hutuo River, the reconnaissance officials came back and reported that the river was filled with ice and could not be crossed without a boat.
The officials were greatly frightened when they heard this.
Guangwu ordered Wang Ba to go and have a look.
Wang Ba probably frightened everyone and wanted to cross the river, but was blocked by the water. When he came back, he falsely claimed that the ice was strong and could be crossed. The officials and their families were all happy.
Guangwu smiled and said, "The detective officials are indeed lying."
So move forward. When they arrived at the river, the ice had closed up, so they ordered Wang Ba to protect them across the river. There were still a few riders left to cross the river, but the ice thawed.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
光武谓霸曰： 安吾众得济免者，卿之力也。 霸谢曰： 此明公至德，神灵之祐，虽武王白鱼之应，无以加此。 光武谓官属曰： 王霸权以济事，殆天瑞也。 以为军正，爵关内侯。
既至信都，发兵攻拔邯郸。
霸追斩王郎，得其玺绶。封王乡侯。
从平河北，常与臧宫、傅俊共营，霸独善抚士卒，死者脱衣以敛之，伤者躬亲以养之。
光武即位，以霸晓兵爱士，可独任，拜为偏将军，并将臧宫、傅俊兵，而以宫、俊为骑都尉。
建武二年，更封富波侯。
四年秋，帝幸谯，使霸与捕虏将军马武东讨周建于垂惠。
苏茂将五校兵四千余人救建，而先遣精骑遮击马武军粮，武往救之。
建从城中出兵夹击武，武恃霸之援，战不甚力，为茂、建所败。
武军奔过霸营，大呼求救。
霸曰： 贼兵盛，出必两败，努力而已。 乃闭营坚壁。
军吏皆争之。
translation: 
Guangwu said to Wang Ba: "It's your credit that stabilized the troops and enabled the army to cross the river safely." Wang Ba thanked him and said: This is the supreme virtue of Ming Gong and the protection of the gods. Even if it is the induction of Wu Wang Baiyu, it cannot compare with it. Guangwu said to his officials: "It is a blessing from heaven that Wang Ba defrauded others because of his power." With Wang Ba as military commander, he was given the title of Marquis of Guan Nei.
After arriving at Xindu, he sent troops to attack Handan.
Wang Ba chased Wang Lang, got Wang Lang's seal and ribbon, and was named Wangxianghou.
Following the pacification of Hebei, he often camped with Zang Gong and Fu Jun. Wang Ba alone was good at comforting the soldiers. When the soldiers died, they took off their own clothes to bury them, and when they were injured, he personally healed their wounds.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he believed that the king knew military affairs, loved the soldiers, and could serve alone, so he was worshiped as a partial general and led the troops of Zang Gong and Chen Jun, while Zang Gong and Chen Jun were appointed as cavalry captains.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, Wang Ba was granted the title Fubohou.
In the autumn of the fourth year of Jianwu, Guangwu drove Qiao, and Wang Ba and the captured general Ma Wudong discussed Zhou Jianyu Chuihui.
Su Mao led more than 4,000 soldiers from five schools to rescue Zhou Jian, and first sent elite cavalry to cover Ma Wu's supplies, and Ma Wu went to rescue him.
Zhou Jian sent troops from the city to attack Ma Wu. Ma Wu relied on Wang Ba's assistance and did not make much effort in the battle. He was defeated by Su Mao and Zhou Jian.
Ma Wujun ran through Wangba's camp and shouted for help.
Wang Ba said: The thieves are strong, and they will lose both sides in battle. Just work hard. So he closed the camp gate and stood firm.
All the soldiers rushed to fight.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
霸曰： 茂兵精锐，其众又多，吾吏士心恐，而捕虏与吾相恃，两军不一，此败道也。
今闭营固守，示不相援，贼必乘胜轻进；捕虏无救，其战自倍。
如此，茂众疲劳，吾承其弊，乃可克也。 茂、建果悉出攻武。合战良久，霸军中壮士路润等数十人断发请战。
霸知士心锐，乃开营后，出精骑袭其背。
茂、建前后受敌，惊乱败走，霸、武各归营。
贼复聚众挑战，霸坚卧不出，方飨士作倡乐。
茂雨射营中，中霸前酒樽，霸安坐不动。
军吏皆曰： 茂前日已破，今易击也。 霸曰： 不然。
苏茂客兵远来，粮食不足，故数挑战，以侥一切之胜。
今闭营休士，所谓不战而屈人之兵，善之善者也。 茂、建既不得战，乃引还营。
其夜，建兄子诵反，闭城拒之，茂、建遁去，诵以城降。
五年春，帝使太中大夫持节拜霸为讨虏将军。
六年，屯田新安。
translation: 
Wang Ba said: "Su Mao's soldiers are elite and numerous. Our officers and soldiers are afraid. However, the captive general and our army rely on each other. The two armies are inconsistent. This is a path to failure."
Now that the camp is closed and the enemy is not willing to come to rescue, the traitors will surely take advantage of the victory and advance easily. The captor general will fight harder when he sees that there is no rescue.
In this way, when the troops of Sumao and Mao are tired, we can defeat them by attacking their fatigue. Sure enough, Su Mao and Zhou Jian concentrated their forces to attack Ma Wu, and the battle lasted for a long time. Dozens of people including Lu Run, a strong man in Wang Ba's army, cut off their hair to invite the battle.
Wang Ba knew that his soldiers were eager, so he opened the back door of the camp and sent out his elite cavalry to attack behind them.
Su Mao and Zhou Jian were attacked successively and fled in panic. Wang Ba and Ma Wu each returned to their camps.
The thieves gathered again to challenge him, but Wang Ba was unable to get out of the wall and was enjoying a song and dance party with his soldiers.
Su Mao fired arrows like raindrops into the camp, hitting the wine bottle in front of Wang Ba. Wang Ba sat still.
The soldiers all said: Sumao was defeated the day before yesterday, but now it is easy to defeat him.
Wang Ba said: Otherwise, Su Mao's soldiers came from far away and there was insufficient food, so he challenged him several times in order to win by chance.
I am closing the camp and resting my soldiers. As the saying goes, it is to conquer the enemy without fighting. This is the best tactic. Su Mao and Zhou Jian were unable to fight, so they led their troops back to camp.
That night, Zhou Jian's nephew Zhou Songzao closed the city gates and resisted. Su Mao and Zhou Jian fled, and Zhou Song surrendered to the king.
In the spring of the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, the emperor sent Taizhong, a senior official, to hold a talisman to worship Wang Ba as a general against captives.
In the sixth year of Jianwu, Xin'an was established.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
八年，屯田函谷关。击荥阳、中牟盗贼，皆平之。
九年，霸与吴汉及横野大将军王常、建义大将军朱祐、破奸将军侯进等五万余人，击卢芳将贾览、闵堪于高柳。
匈奴遣骑助芳，汉军遇雨，战不利。
吴汉还洛阳，令朱祐屯常山，王常屯涿郡，侯进屯渔阳。
玺书拜霸上谷太守，领屯兵如故，捕击胡虏，无拘郡界。
明年，霸复与吴汉等四将军六万人出高柳击贾览，诏霸与渔阳太守陈将兵为诸军锋。
匈奴左南将军将数千骑救览，霸等连战于平城下，破之，追出塞，斩首数百级。
霸及诸将还入雁门，与骠骑大将军杜茂会攻卢芳将尹由于崞、繁畤，不克。
十三年，增邑户，更封向侯。
是时，卢芳与匈奴、乌恒连兵，寇盗尤数，缘边愁苦。
诏霸将弛刑徒六千余人，与杜茂治飞狐道，堆石布土，筑起亭障，自代至平城三百余里。
凡与匈奴、乌桓大小数十百战，颇识边事，数上书言宜与匈奴结和亲，又陈委输可从温水漕，以省陆转输之劳，事皆施行。
后南单于、乌桓降服，北边无事。
霸在上谷二十余岁。
三十年，定封淮陵侯。
永平二年，以病免，后数月卒。
子符嗣，徙封轪侯。
符卒，子度嗣。
度尚显宗女浚仪长公主，为黄门郎。
度卒，子歆嗣。
祭遵字弟孙，颍川颍阳人也。
translation: 
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, he stationed at Hangu Pass and defeated the bandits in Xingyang and Zhongmou.
In the ninth year of Jianwu, more than 50,000 people including Wang Ba, Wu Han, Hengye general Wang Chang, Jianyi general Zhu You, and traitor-breaking general Hou Jin attacked Lu Fang generals Jia Lan and Min Kan at Gaoliu.
The Xiongnu sent cavalry to assist Lu Fang, but the Han army encountered rain and the battle was at a disadvantage.
Wu Han returned to Luoyang and ordered Zhu You to garrison Changshan, Wang Chang to garrison Zhuojun, and Hou Jin to garrison Yuyang.
Xishu worshiped Wang Ba as the prefect of Shanggu, and led the troops as in the past, hunting barbarians without being restricted by county boundaries.
The next year, Wang Ba and Wu Han and other four generals sent out 60,000 men to Gaoliu to attack Jia Lan. Wang Ba and Yuyang Governor Chen Yujin were ordered to lead the army as the vanguard.
General Zuonan of the Xiongnu led thousands of cavalry to rescue Jia Lan. Wang Ba and others fought with him at the foot of Pingcheng, defeated the enemy troops, pursued him out of the fortress, and beheaded hundreds of people.
Wang Ba and other generals returned to Yanmen and joined forces with General Du Mao to attack Lu Fang General Yin Yuguo County and Fan County, but failed to win.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, the number of households in the city was increased, and Wang Ba was granted the title of Xianghou.
At this time, Lu Fang, together with the Xiongnu and Wuhuan soldiers, invaded and plundered more frequently, making the borderland miserable.
Wang Ba was ordered to lead more than 6,000 prisoners who were freed from their shackles, and he and Du Mao managed Feigu Road, piled stones and earth, built pavilions and barriers, and traveled more than 300 miles to Pingcheng.
Wang Ba fought hundreds of battles with the Xiongnu and Wuhuan, large and small, and was well versed in border defense affairs. He wrote several times that it was advisable to make peace with the Xiongnu, and also suggested that transportation could be carried out by warm water canal to save the labor of land transportation. These were all accepted.
Later Nan Danyu and Wuhuan surrendered. The north side is quiet and uneventful.
Wang Ba has been in Shanggu for more than 20 years.
In the 30th year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Huailing.
In the second year of Yongping. He was dismissed due to illness and died a few months later.
Ziwang Fu succeeded to the throne and was granted the title of Yihou.
When Wang Fu died, his son Wangdu succeeded him.
Wang Du married Princess Junyi, the daughter of the prominent clan, and became Huangmenlang.
Wang Du died, and his son Wang Xin succeeded to the throne.
Ji Zun's younger brother Sun was a native of Yingyang, Yingchuan.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
少好经书。
家富给，而遵恭俭，恶衣服。
丧母，负土起坟。
尝为部吏所侵，结客杀之。
初，县中以其柔也，既而皆惮焉。
及光武破王寻等，还过颍阳，遵以县吏数进见，光武爱其容仪，署为门下史。
从征河北，为军市令。
舍中儿犯法，遵格杀之。
光武怒，命收遵。
时，主簿陈副谏曰： 明公常欲众军整齐，今遵奉法不避，是教令所行也。 光武乃贳之，以为刺奸将军。
谓诸将曰： 当备祭遵！
吾舍中儿犯法尚杀之，必不私诸卿也。 寻拜为偏将军，从平河北，以功封列侯。
建武二年春，拜征虏将军，定封颍阳侯。
与骠骑大将军景丹、建义大将军朱祐、汉忠将军王常、骑都尉王梁、臧宫等入箕关，南击弘农、厌新、柏华蛮中贼。
弩中遵口，洞出流血，众见遵伤，稍引退，遵呼叱止之，士卒战皆自倍，遂大破之。
translation: 
When I was young, I loved scriptures.
The family is wealthy, but Ji Zun is respectful, frugal and doesn't like to wear fancy clothes.
After her mother died, she carried the earth to her grave.
Once bullied by government officials, Ji Zun befriended guests and killed the government officials.
At first, the county thought he was weak, but later became afraid of him.
Guangwu defeated Wang Xun and others and returned to Yingyang. Ji Zun visited him several times as a county official. Guangwu liked his appearance and made him a subordinate for a while.
From Hebei, he was ordered to serve as a military commander.
The son in the house broke the law, so Ji Zun killed him.
Guangwu was angry and ordered Ji Zun to be arrested.
At this time, the chief registrar, Deputy Chen, advised him: "Ming Gong always wants the army to be in order. Now he can obey the law and not avoid the power. This is what is needed to educate the law." Guangwu pardoned him and made him an assassin and traitor general.
To the generals: Be more careful with Ji Zun!
He will still kill my son if he breaks the law, and he will never show any favoritism to you. Soon after, he paid homage to the partial general, followed him to pacify Hebei, and was granted the title of lord for his merits.
In the spring of the second year of Jianwu's reign, he was appointed General of the Conquering Capture Army and granted the title of Marquis of Yingyang.
He entered Jiguan with the hussar general Jing Dan, the Jianyi general Zhu You, the Han loyal general Wang Chang, the cavalry captain Wang Liang, Zang Gong and others, and attacked the Hongnong, Yanxin and Baihua barbarians in the south.
Ji Zun was hit by a crossbow arrow and his wound was bleeding. When everyone saw that Ji Zun was injured, they gradually retreated. Ji Zun kept shouting and scolding, and the soldiers fought harder and harder, thus defeating the enemy.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
时，新城蛮中山贼张满，屯结险隘为人害，诏遵攻之。遵绝其粮道，满数挑战，遵坚壁不出。
而厌新、柏华余贼复与满合，遂攻得霍阳聚，遵乃分兵击破降之。
明年春，张满饥困，城拔，生获之。
初，满蔡祀天地，自云当王，既执，叹曰： 谶文误我！ 乃斩之，夷其妻子。
遵引兵南击邓奉弟终于杜衍，破之。
时，涿郡太守张丰执使者举兵反，自称无上大将军，与彭宠连兵。
四年，遵与朱祐及建威大将军耿弇、骁骑将军刘喜俱击之。
遵兵先至，急攻丰，丰功曹孟厷执丰降。
初，丰好方术，有道士言丰当为天子，以五彩囊裹石系丰肘，云石中有玉玺。
丰信之，遂反。
既执当斩，犹曰： 肘石有玉玺。 遵为椎破之，丰乃知被诈，仰天叹曰： 当死无所恨！ 诸将皆引还，遵受诏留屯良乡拒彭宠。
因遣护军傅玄袭击宠将李豪于潞，大破之，斩首千余级。
相拒岁余，数挫其锋，党与多降者。
及宠死，遵进定其地。
六年春，诏遵与建威大将军耿弇、虎牙大将军盖延、汉忠将军王常、捕虏将军马武、骁骑将军刘歆、武威将军刘尚等从天水伐公孙述。
translation: 
At that time, Zhang Man, a bandit among the Xincheng barbarians, gathered soldiers in dangerous places to harm the people. He ordered Ji Zun to attack, but Ji Zun cut off Zhang Man's food route. Zhang Man challenged him several times, but Ji Zun held on to the barrier and could not leave.
The remnants of Yanxin and Baihua reunited with Zhang Man and captured Huoyangju. Ji Zun then divided his troops to defeat them and force him to surrender.
In the spring of the third year of Jianwu, Zhang Man was hungry and sleepy. Ji Zun attacked his city and captured Zhang Man alive.
At first, Zhang Man offered sacrifices to heaven and earth, saying that he should be the king. When he was caught, he sighed: The prophecy was wrong to me! So he, his wife, and his children were beheaded.
Ji Zun led his troops south to attack Deng Feng's brother, Du Yan, and finally defeated him.
At this time, Zhang Feng, the governor of Zhuo County, caught the envoy and raised his troops to rebel. He claimed to be the supreme general and joined forces with Peng Chong.
In the fourth year of Jianwu, Ji Zun, Zhu You, Jianwei General Geng Yan, and Xiaoqi General Liu happy jointly attacked Zhang Feng.
Ji Zun's soldiers arrived first and attacked Zhang Feng in a hurry. Zhang Feng's hero Cao Meng captured Zhang Feng and surrendered.
At first, Zhang Feng was fond of alchemy. A Taoist priest said that Zhang Feng was regarded as the emperor. He wrapped a stone in a colorful bag and tied it to Zhang Feng's elbow, saying that there was a jade seal in the stone.
Zhang Feng believed it and rebelled.
After being caught and beheaded, he also said: There is a jade seal on his elbow. Ji Zun broke his stone vertebrae, and Zhang Feng realized that he had been deceived by the Taoist priest. He looked up to the sky and sighed: "I will die without regrets!" All the generals were led back, and Ji Zun was ordered to stay in Liangxiang to resist Peng Chong.
Therefore, he sent the guard Fu Xuan to attack Peng Chong's general Li Hao and Yu Lu, and defeated his army, beheading more than a thousand people.
They resisted each other for more than a year and were defeated several times. Many of Peng Chong's followers surrendered.
When Peng Chong died, Ji Zun marched to pacify his territory.
In the spring of the sixth year of Jianwu, he ordered Ji Zun and Jianwei General Geng Yan, Huya General Gai Yan, Han Zhong General Wang Chang, Capture General Ma Wu, Xiaoqi General Liu Xin, Wuwei General Liu Shang and others to attack Gongsun Shu from Tianshui.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
师次长安，时车驾亦至，而隗嚣不欲汉兵上陇，辞说解故。
帝召诸将议，皆曰： 可且延嚣日月之期，益封其将帅，以消散之。 遵曰： 嚣挟奸久矣。
今若按甲引时，则使其诈谋益深，而蜀警增备，固不如遂进。 帝从之，乃遣遵为前行。
隗嚣使其将王元拒陇坻，遵进击，破之，追至新关。
及诸将到，与嚣战，并败，引退下陇。
乃诏遵军汧、耿弇军漆，征西大将军冯异军栒邑，大司马吴汉等还屯长安。
自是后，遵数挫隗嚣。
事已见《冯异传》。
八年秋，复从车驾上陇。
及嚣破，帝东归过汧，幸遵营，劳飨士卒，作黄门武乐，良夜乃罢。
时，遵有疾，诏赐重茵，覆以御盖。
复令进屯陇下。
及公孙述遣兵救嚣，吴汉、耿弇等悉奔还，遵独留不却。
九年春，卒于军。
遵为人廉约小心，克己奉公，赏赐辄尽与士卒，家无私财，身衣韦裤，布被，夫人裳不加缘，帝以是重焉。
translation: 
The army stopped in Chang'an, and Guangwu's chariots also arrived, but Kaixiao did not want the Han soldiers to go to Long, so he excused himself.
Guangwu summoned the generals to discuss. They all say: You can temporarily delay the period of the sun and the moon of Wei Xiao, and add titles to his generals to promote their dispersion and disintegration. Ji Zun said: Kui Xiao has been plotting for a long time.
If he stands still and procrastinates for a while now, it will prompt him to deepen his deception and make Gongsun Shu increase his security, so it is better to march directly. Guangwu obeyed and sent Ji Zun as the vanguard.
Kaixiao sent his general Wang Yuan to stay at Longdi, and Ji Zun attacked, defeated Wang Yuan's army, and pursued him to Xinguan.
When the generals arrived, they fought with Kai Xiao but failed, so they retreated to Long.
Guangwu ordered Ji Zun to garrison troops in Qi, ordered Geng Yan to garrison troops in Qi, ordered General Feng Yi to garrison troops in the city, and ordered Grand Sima Wu Han and others to return to Chang'an.
Since then, Ji Zun has defeated Kuai Xiao several times.
See "Feng Yi Zhuan" for details.
In the autumn of the eighth year of Jianwu, he went up to Long from Guangwu.
When Kuai Xiao was destroyed, Guang Wu returned eastward and passed through Qian. He went to the Ji Zun military camp, comforted and fed the soldiers, and performed Huangmen martial arts, which stopped late at night.
At this time, Ji Zun was ill and was given a thick mattress to sit on, which was covered with the emperor's royal canopy.
Then let him march to Longxia.
When Gongsun Shu sent troops to rescue Wei Xiao, Wu Han, Geng Yan and others all fled back, except for Ji Zun who remained.
In the spring of the ninth year of Jianwu, he died in the army.
Ji Zun was an honest, conscientious, careful, self-denial, and dedicated to the public service. He always gave all the rewards he received to his soldiers. He had no private property at home. He wore a Wei belt, a quilt, and a quilt, and his wife's clothes were not colorful. Therefore, the emperor valued him.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
及卒，愍悼之尤甚。
遵丧至河南县，诏遣百官先会丧所，车驾素服临之，望哭哀恸。
还幸城门，过其车骑，涕泣不能已。
丧礼成，复亲祠以太牢，如宣帝临霍光故事。
诏大长秋、谒者、河南尹护丧事，大司农给费。
博士范升上疏，追称遵曰： 臣闻先王崇政，尊美屏恶。
昔高祖大圣，深见远虑，班爵割地，与下分功，著录勋臣，颂其德美。
生则庞以殊礼，奏事不名，入门不趋。
死则畴其爵邑，世无绝嗣，丹书铁券，传于无穷。
斯诚大汉厚下安人长久之德，所以累世十八，历载数百，废而复兴，绝而复续者也。
陛下以至德受命，先明汉道，褒序辅佐，封赏功臣，同符祖宗。
征虏将军颍阳侯遵，不幸早薨。
陛下仁恩，为之感伤，远迎河南，恻怛之恸，形于圣躬，丧事用度，仰给县官，重赐妻子，不可胜数。
送死有以加生，厚亡有以过存，矫俗厉化，卓如日月。
古者臣疾君视，臣卒君吊，德之厚者也。
陵迟以来久矣。
及至陛下，复兴斯礼，群下感动，莫不自励。
translation: 
After his death, sympathy and mourning were especially intense.
When the coffin arrived in Henan County, the emperor sent hundreds of officials to gather at the funeral site. Guangwu came in white mourning clothes and looked at the coffin in mourning.
When I walked back through the city gate and saw the funeral car, I couldn't help crying.
After the funeral ceremony was completed, he personally offered sacrifices with Tailao ceremony, just like Emperor Xuan performed Huo Guang's funeral.
Da Changqiu, Yezhe, and Henan Yin were ordered to carry out funeral arrangements, and Da Si Nong was responsible for the expenses.
Dr. Fan Shengshangshu, who was posthumously named Ji Zun, said: I heard about the noble virtues of the late king, respected the good, and rejected the ugly.
In the past, the great sage, the Great Ancestor, had far-sightedness, divided up nobility and territory, and divided the merits with his subordinates. He recorded the deeds of the heroes in books and praised their virtues.
During the lifetime, special etiquette is used to show favor. There is no need to sign up for events, and there is no need to leave in a hurry when entering the house.
After his death, he was granted a title so that he would have no heirs, and a deed was given to him to enjoy privileges from generation to generation, so that his favor would be passed on to eternity.
This is a long-lasting kindness bestowed by our great Han Dynasty to the descendants of heroes, so it has affected more than ten generations and lasted for more than two hundred years. It was abolished and revived, and it was extinct and continued.
Your Majesty is entrusted with the task of being extremely virtuous, promoting the ways of the ancestors, commending assistants in turn, and rewarding meritorious ministers, in line with the laws of the ancestors.
The marquis of Yingyang, Ji Zun, the conquering general, unfortunately died young.
Your Majesty is so kind and grieved that he welcomes you from afar to Henan. Sorrow and mourning are expressed in holy bows, funeral expenses are donated by the state, and wives and children are given to them in countless ways.
It is given to the deceased to benefit the living, and to provide kindness to the deceased to comfort relatives, to correct the world, to encourage education, and to be as high as the sun and the moon.
In ancient times, when a minister was ill, the king came to visit him, and when a minister died, the king came to mourn him. This was a profound virtue.
But this kind of gentlemanly virtue has been destroyed for a long time.
His Majesty restored this kind of etiquette, and all his ministers were moved by it, and they all encouraged themselves.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
臣窃见遵修行积善，竭忠于国，北平渔阳，西拒陇、蜀，先登坻上，深取略阳。
众兵既退，独守冲难。
制御士心，不越法度。
所在吏人，不知有军。
清名闻于海内，廉白著于当世。
所得赏赐，辄尽与吏士，身无奇衣，家无私财。
同产兄午以遵无子，娶妾送之，遵乃使人逆而不受，自以身任于国，不敢图生虑继嗣之计。
临死遗诫牛车载丧，薄葬洛阳。
问以家事，终无所言。
任重道远，死而后已。
遵为将军，取士皆用儒术，对酒设乐，必雅歌投壶。
又建为孔子立后，奏置《五经》大夫。
虽在军旅，不忘俎豆，可谓好礼悦乐，守死善道者也。
礼，生有爵，死有谥，爵以殊尊卑，谥以明善恶。
臣愚以为宜因遵薨，论叙众功，详案《谥法》，以礼成之。
显章国家笃古之制，为后嗣法。 帝乃下升章以示公卿。
translation: 
The minister privately saw that Ji Zun had accumulated good deeds and was loyal to the country. He went north to pacify Yuyang, and went west to resist Long and Shu. He ascended Longdi first and captured Lueyang deeply.
All the soldiers and horses retreated, but he remained alone.
He can control and control the soldiers so that they do not exceed the law.
The officials and people where his army was located were unaware of its existence.
The reputation of purity spreads throughout the country, and the reputation of honesty and innocence is known throughout the world.
He often distributed all the rewards he received to officials. He wore no expensive clothes and had no private property at home.
The brother of the same mother, Ji Wu, thought that he had no children, so he took a concubine for him and gave it to him. Ji Zun refused to accept it, thinking that he was in charge of state affairs, and did not dare to covet life and consider the private affairs of his heirs.
Before he died, he also ordered in his will to carry his coffin in an oxcart and bury him sparingly in Luoyang.
I asked him about his family affairs, but he always said nothing.
There is a long way to go, and death is the end of it.
When Ji Zun is a general, he uses Confucianism to select talents. When drinking and playing, he must sing elegant poems and throw pots.
After he built a temple for Confucius, he appointed a doctor of the Five Classics.
Although he is in the military, he does not forget to perform sacrifices. He can be said to be a person who obeys etiquette, enjoys rituals and music, and adheres to the good way.
Ritual, you have a title when you are alive, and you should be given a posthumous title after death. The title is used to distinguish between superior and inferior, and the posthumous title is used to understand good and evil.
I think that after Ji Zun's death, he should discuss his many achievements, follow the posthumous law in detail, and complete it with ancient rituals.
To show that the country abides by ancient rules and regulations and establishes heirs for future generations. The emperor then showed Fan Sheng's memorial to the minister.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
至葬，车驾复临，赠以将军、侯印绶，朱轮容车，介士军陈送葬，谥曰成侯。
既葬，车驾复临其坟，存见夫人室家。
其后会朝，帝每叹曰： 安得忧国奉公之臣如祭征虏者乎！ 遵之见思若此。
无子，国除。
兄午，官至酒泉太守。
translation: 
After the burial, the emperor's chariot driver came again in person, presented the seals and ribbons of the generals and marquises, and carried them in a cart with red painted wheels. The warriors lined up in a military formation for the funeral, and he was given the posthumous title of Marquis Cheng.
After the burial was completed, Guangwu visited his grave again and properly placed his wife's family.
Later, during the court meeting, the emperor often sighed: How can we get ministers like Ji Zun who care about the country and serve the public? Ji Zunzhi sees and thinks about Guangwu so deeply.
Without children, the feudal state was abolished.
My brother offered sacrifices at noon, and he was promoted to the prefect of Jiuquan.


