Chunk 0: 
original: 
宣帝九男，穆张皇后生景帝、文帝、平原王干，伏夫人生汝南文成王亮、琅邪武王伷、清惠亭侯京、扶风武王骏，张夫人生梁王肜，柏夫人生赵王伦。
亮及伦别有传。
平原王榦，字子良。
少以公子魏时封安阳亭侯，稍迁抚军中郎将，进爵平阳乡侯。
五等建，改封定陶伯。
武帝践阼，封平原王，邑万一千三百户，给鼓吹、驸马二匹，加侍中之服。
咸宁初，遣诸王之国，干有笃疾，性理不恆，而颇清虚静退，简于情欲，故特诏留之。
太康末，拜光禄大夫，加侍中，特假金章紫绶，班次三司。
惠帝即位，进左光禄大夫，侍中如故，剑履上殿，入朝不趋。
榦虽王大国，不事其务，有所调补，必以才能。
虽有爵禄，若不在己，秩奉布帛，皆露积腐烂。
translation: 
Emperor Xuan had nine sons. Queen Mu Zhang gave birth to Emperor Jing, Emperor Wen, and Sima Wangqian of Pingyuan. Mrs. Fu gave birth to Sima Liang, king of Wencheng in Runan, Sima Nian, king of Langye Wu, Sima Jing, Hou Huiting of Qing Dynasty, and Sima Jun, king of Fufeng Wu. Mrs. Zhang gave birth to Sima Xu, king of Liang, and Sima Lun, king of Zhao, was born to Mrs. Bai.
Sima Liang and Sima Lun have other biographies.
Sima Qian, king of Pingyuan, was named Ziliang.
When he was young, he was granted the title of Marquis of Anyang Ting in the Wei Dynasty as a young master. He gradually moved to the rank of Zhonglang General of the Fu Army and became the Marquis of Pingyang Township.
The fifth-class title was established and the title was changed to Tao Bo.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and made him the King of Pingyuan. He was granted the title of 11,300 households, two horses for preaching and driving, and the clothes of the attendants.
In the early years of Xianning, kings were sent to feudal states. Sima Qian was seriously ill and could not maintain his rationality. He also liked peace and quiet and had little desire to compromise, so he specially wrote a Shao letter to keep him.
In the last years of Taikang, the official worshiped Dr. Guanglu and was appointed as a servant. He was specially given a gold seal and a purple ribbon, and his rank was the same as that of the three divisions.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and was promoted to Dr. Zuo Guanglu. His position as a servant remained the same. He wore a sword and wore shoes when going to the palace. There was no need to walk in small steps when entering the court.
Although Sima Qian was the king of a great feudal state and did not take care of government affairs, if he was transferred or replaced, it would be based on his ability.
Although he has a title and salary, it seems that he does not have it with him. The salary, cloth and silk are all piled up in the open air to rot.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
阴雨则出犊车而内露车，或问其故，对曰： 露者宜内也。
朝士造之，虽通姓名，必令立车马于门外，或终夕不见。
时有得观，与人物酬接，亦恂恂恭逊，初无阙失。
前后爱妾死，既敛，辄不钉棺，置后空室中，数日一发视，或行淫秽，须其尸坏乃葬之。
赵王伦辅政，以榦为卫将军。
惠帝反正，复为侍中，加太保。
齐王冏之平赵王伦也，宗室朝士皆以牛酒劳冏，榦独怀百钱，见冏乂之，曰： 赵王逆乱，汝能义举，是汝之功，今以百钱贺汝。
虽然，大势难居，不可不慎。
冏既辅政，榦诣之，冏出迎拜。
榦入，踞其床，不命冏坐，语之曰： 汝勿效白女兒， 其意指伦也。
translation: 
On cloudy and rainy days, the bullock carts are driven out and the carts without curtains are put into the warehouse. Someone asked why, and the answer was: carts without curtains are suitable for storage.
When a court official visited him, even though his name was announced, the visitor's carriage and horses would be parked outside the door, and he might not be seen for a whole day.
I was able to visit him sometimes and socialize with others. He was very respectful and humble, and there were no mistakes at first.
Before and after my concubine died and was buried, the coffin was always left unnailed in an empty room at the back. I opened it every few days to look at it, maybe did some obscene things, and waited until the body rotted before burying it.
King Zhao Sima Lun assisted in the government affairs and appointed Sima Qian as General Wei.
Emperor Hui was deposed and re-established. Sima Qian wrote poems and was appointed Taibao.
When King Sima Tong of Qi pacified King Sima Lun of Zhao, the members of the royal family and the officials in the court all comforted Sima Tong with cow wine. Only Sima Qian had a hundred coins in his pocket. When he saw Sima Tong take it out, he said: King Zhao rebelled and rebelled. It is your credit for your righteous deeds. Now I use a hundred coins to congratulate you.
Even so, it is difficult for you to take advantage of the general trend, so you must be cautious.
After Sima Jian assisted in the government affairs, Sima Qian went to visit him, and Sima Tong came out to greet him.
After Sima Qian entered the house, he squatted on Sima Gang's bed and refused to let Sima Tong sit down. He said to him: "Don't imitate women." This word means Sima Lun.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
及冏诛，榦哭之恸，谓左右曰： 宗室日衰，唯此兒最可，而复害之，从今殆矣！
东海王越兴义，至洛阳，往视干，干闭门不通。
越驻车良久，干乃使人谢遣，而自于门间窥之。
当时莫能测其意，或谓之有疾，或以为晦迹焉。
永嘉五年薨，时年八十。
会刘聪寇洛，不遑赠谥，有二子，世子广早卒，次子永以太熙中封安德县公，散骑常侍，皆为善士。
遇难，合门堙灭。
琅邪武王伷，字子将，正始初封南安亭侯。
早有才望，起家为宁朔将军，监守鄴城，有绥怀之称。
累迁散骑常侍，进封东武乡侯，拜右将军、监兗州诸军事、兗州刺史。
五等初建，封南皮伯。
translation: 
When Sima Tong was killed, Sima Qian cried very sadly and said to the people around him: "The clan is gradually declining, and only this son is the best. If you kill him, you will be in danger from now on!"
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, acted righteously and arrived in Luoyang to visit Sima Qian, but Sima Qian stayed behind closed doors.
Sima Yue's car stayed for a long time before Sima Qian sent someone to see the guest off, while he peeped through the crack in the door.
At that time, no one could fathom his intentions. Some said he was ill, while others thought he was doing something cryptic.
Yongjia died in the fifth year of his reign at the age of eighty.
It happened that Liu Cong invaded Luoyang and had no time to give him the nickname "Mi". He has two sons. The eldest son, Sima Guang, died young. The second son, Sima Yong, was named the Duke of Ande County in the Taixi year and served as a regular attendant. They are both good people.
In trouble, the whole family will be exterminated.
Sima Dian, the king of Langye Wu, was given the title Zijiang in the early years of his reign and was named Nan'antinghou.
He was talented and famous very early. He initially served as General Ningshuo and guarded Yecheng. He had a reputation for being good at appeasing people and making them obey.
Gradually he was moved to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi. In the Jin Dynasty, he was granted the title of Marquis of Shuwu Township. He was appointed as the Right General, supervised the military affairs of Yanzhou, and was the governor of Yanzhou.
The fifth-class title was established and he was named Nanpi Bo.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
转征虏将军、假节，武帝践阼，封东莞郡王，邑万六百户。
始置二卿，特诏诸王自选令长。
伷表让，不许。
入为尚书右仆射、抚军将军，出为镇东大将军、假节、徐州诸军事，代卫瓘镇下邳。
伷镇御有方，得将士死力，吴人惮之。
加开府仪同三司，改封琅邪王，以东莞益其国。
平吴之役，率众数万出涂中，孙皓奉笺送玺绶，诣伷请降，诏曰： 琅邪王伷督率所统，连据涂中，使贼不得相救。
又使琅邪相刘弘等进军逼江，贼震惧，遣使奉伪玺绶。
又使长史王恆率诸军渡江，破贼边守，获督蔡机，斩道降附五六万计，诸葛靓、孙奕皆归命请死，功勋茂著。其封子二人为亭侯，各三千户，赐绢六千匹。
顷之，并督青州诸军事，加侍中之服。
进拜大将军、开府仪同三司。
伷既戚属尊重，加有平吴之功，克己恭俭，无矜满之色，僚吏尽力，百姓怀化。
疾笃，赐床帐、衣服、钱帛、秔梁等物，遣侍中问焉。
translation: 
He was transferred to the post of General Zhenglu, Jiajie. Emperor Wu ascended the throne and granted him the title of Prince of Dongguan County, granting him a fief of 10,600 households.
When the second ministers were first established, a special edict was issued to let the kings choose their own commanders.
Sima Dian asked for permission, but the emperor refused.
After entering the imperial court, he served as Shangshu Youpushe and Fujun General. He was appointed as General Zhenshu, Jiajie, and Commander-in-Chief of Xuzhou's military affairs. He replaced Wei Cui to guard Xiapi.
Sima Dian defended the enemy well, and the soldiers were willing to die to serve him. The people of Wu were afraid of him.
He was granted the title of Kaifu Yitong and the Third Division, and was granted the title of King Langxie, using Dongguan to expand his feudal kingdom.
In the battle of Pingding County, Sun Hao led tens of thousands of troops from Tusheng. Sun Hao sent a letter and seal to Sima Dian to ask for surrender. Shaoshu says: Sima Bodu, King of Langxie, led the troops under his command to occupy Tuzhong one after another, making it impossible for the enemy to save each other.
He also sent the fallen evil minister Liu Hong and others to march towards the Yangtze River. The enemy was shocked and frightened, and sent an envoy to present the fake seal and ribbon.
Sima Dian then sent Chief Shi Wangheng to lead his troops to cross the Yangtze River, break through the enemy's border defenses, capture Lan Bian, the governor, beheaded and surrendered 50,000 to 60,000 people, and condemned Jiang Dan, Yu Sai and others to surrender and plead guilty. Sima Dian's meritorious service was outstanding, and his two sons were granted the title of Marquis of Ting, each with a title of 3,000 households and 6,000 pieces of silk.
Soon, he also supervised all the military affairs in Qingzhou and added the clothing of the servants.
He was promoted to General, Kaifu Yitong and the Third Division.
Sima Dian not only had a distinguished status because he was a relative of the emperor, but also contributed to the pacification of Wu. He restrained himself from being respectful and indulgent, and did not appear to be complacent about his achievements. His staff did their best, and the people were inspired and attached to him.
When he was seriously ill, he was given bed tents, clothes, money, silk, rice and other items, and his servants were sent to greet him.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
太康四年薨，时年五十七。
临终表求葬母太妃陵次，并乞分国封四子，帝许之。
子恭王觐立。
又封次子澹为武陵王，繇为东安王，漼为淮陵王。
觐字思祖，拜冗从仆射。
太熙元年薨，时年三十五。
子睿立，是为元帝。
中兴初，以皇子裒为琅邪王，奉恭王祀。
裒早薨，更以皇子焕为琅邪王。
其日薨，复以皇子昱为琅邪王。
咸和之初，既徙封会稽，成帝又以康帝为琅邪王，康帝即位，封成帝长子哀帝为琅邪王。
哀帝即位，以废帝为琅邪王。
废帝即位，以会稽王摄行琅邪国祀。
简文帝登阼，琅邪王无嗣。
及帝临崩，封少子道子为琅邪王。
道子后为会稽王，更以恭帝为琅邪王。
帝既即位，琅邪国除。
武陵庄王澹字思弘。
初为冗从仆射，后封东武公，邑五千二百户。
translation: 
Taikang died in the fourth year of his reign at the age of fifty-seven.
On his deathbed, he petitioned to be buried next to his mother's mausoleum and to divide his kingdom among his four sons. The emperor agreed.
His son, Prince Gong, Sima Su, succeeded to the throne.
He also named his second son, Mo Shan, King of Juni, Sima Yao as King of Dong'an, and Sima Huai as King of Huailing.
Sima Jin's name is Sizu, and he has many officials and servants.
Taixi died in the first year of his reign at the age of thirty-five.
His son Sima Rui succeeded to the throne, also known as Wu Tong.
At the beginning of the restoration of the emperor's empire, the prince Sima Cao was made the king of falling mo and offered sacrifices to Prince Gong.
Sima Pei died early and made his prince Sima Huan the king of Langxie.
He died that day and took the title of Prince Sima Yu as King Langxie.
In the early years of Xianhe, after Sima Yu was transferred to Kuaiji, Emperor Cheng made Emperor Kang the king of Langxie. Emperor Kang ascended the throne and named Emperor Cheng's eldest son Ai Emperor as King Langxie.
Emperor Ai ascended the throne and made the deposed Emperor the king of Langxie.
After the deposed emperor ascended the throne, King Kuaiji acted as the minister of sacrifice for the Langye Kingdom.
Emperor Jianwen ascended the throne, and King Langxie had no successor.
When the emperor was dying, he named his youngest son Daozi King Langxie.
Daozi later became King of Kuaiji, and Emperor Gong was appointed King of Langxie.
After Emperor Gong ascended the throne, Langye Kingdom was abolished.
Sima Dan, the king of Wulingzhuang, was named Sihong.
At first he served as a servant, and later he was granted the title of Duke of Dongwu, with a fief of 5,200 households.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
转前将军、中护军。
性忌害，无孝友之行。
弟东安王繇有令名，为父母所爱，澹恶之如仇，遂谮繇于汝南王亮，亮素与繇有隙，奏废徙之。
赵王伦作乱，以澹为领军将军。
澹素与河内郭俶、俶弟侃亲善。
酒酣，俶等言张华之冤，澹性酗酒，因并杀之，送首于伦，其酗虐如此。
澹妻郭氏，贾后内妹也。
初恃势，无礼于澹母。
齐王冏辅政，澹母诸葛太妃表澹不孝，乞还繇，由是澹与妻子徙辽东。
其子禧年五岁，不肯随去，曰： 耍当为父求还，无为俱徙。
陈诉历年，太妃薨，繇被害，然后得还。
拜光禄大夫、尚书、太子太傅，改封武陵王。
永嘉末为石勒所害，子哀王喆立。
translation: 
Transferred to the post of former general and central protector.
He is jealous and harmful by nature and has no filial and friendly character.
His younger brother Sima Yao, king of Dong'an, had a good reputation and was loved by his parents. Sima Dan hated him as an enemy, so he spoke ill of Sima Yao to Sima Liang, king of Runan. Sima Liang had always had conflicts with Sima Yao, so he petitioned to abolish him and move him.
King Zhao Sima Lun rebelled and appointed Sima Dan as the leading general.
Sima Dan has always been friendly with Guo Chu in Hanoi and Sima Chu's younger brother.
When the wine was in full swing, He Ye and others talked about the grievances of Tui Gan. Sima Dan was a drunkard by nature, so he killed both of them and gave their heads to Sima Lun. He stopped drinking and went on a violent rampage.
Sima Dan's wife, Su Di, was the queen's sister-in-law.
At first, relying on his family status, he was rude to Sima Dan's mother.
King Sima Tong of Qi was assisting in government affairs. Sima Dan's mother, Princess Zhuge, complained that Sima Dan was unfilial and begged to be let back. Therefore, Sima Dan, his wife and children moved to Liaosai.
His son Sima Xi, who was five years old, refused to go with him, saying: "We should ask to come back for our father, and we should not move together."
After complaining for many years, the concubine passed away, Sima Yao was killed, and then he was able to return to the court.
The official title was Guanglu Dafu, Shangshu, Prince Taifu, and was renamed King Wuling.
In the last years of Yongjia, he was killed by Shi Le, and his son Sima Zhe, King of Ai, succeeded him.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
喆字景林，拜散骑常侍，亦为勒所害。
无子，其后元帝立皇子晞为武陵王，以奉澹祀焉。
东安王繇字思玄。
初拜东安公，历散骑黄门侍郎，迁散骑常侍。
美须髯，性刚毅，有威望，博学多才，事亲孝，居丧尽礼。
诛杨骏之际，繇屯云龙门，兼统诸军，以功拜右卫将军，领射声校尉，进封郡王，邑二万户，加侍中，兼典军大将军，领右卫如故。
迁尚书右仆射，加散骑常侍。
是日诛赏三百余人，皆自繇出。
东夷校尉文俶父钦为繇外祖诸葛诞所杀，繇虑俶为舅家之患，是日亦以非罪诛俶。
繇兄澹屡构繇于汝南王亮，亮不纳。
至是以繇专行诛赏，澹因隙谮之，亮惑其说，遂免繇官，以公就第，坐有悖言，废徙带方。
永康初，征繇，复封，拜宗正卿，迁尚书，转左仆射。
惠帝之讨成都王颖，时繇遭母丧在鄴，劝颖解兵而降。
及王师败绩，颖怨繇，乃害之。
后立琅邪王觐子长乐亭侯浑为东安王，以奉繇祀。
translation: 
Sima Zhe, whose courtesy name was Jinglin, was a regular servant of Sanqi. He was also killed by Shi Le.
He had no son, so Emperor Yuan later appointed his prince Sima Xi as King of Wuling to offer sacrifices to Sima Dan.
Sima Yao, King of Dong'an, had the courtesy name Si Xuan.
At first, he was the Duke of Dong'an, and he successively served as the minister of Huangmen of Sanqi, and then moved to the position of regular servant of Sanqi.
A person with a beautiful beard, resolute temperament, authority, erudition, filial piety in serving relatives, and exhaustive etiquette in mourning.
When Yang Jun was executed, Sima Yao stationed troops in Yunlong and commanded all the troops. Because of his meritorious service, he was worshiped as the General of the Right Guard and the Colonel of Shesheng. He was granted the title of Prince of the County in the Jin Dynasty and was granted the title of 20,000 households. He was also appointed as the Shizhong and the General of the Dian Army. He also served as the General of the Right Guard.
He was moved to the right servant of Shangshu and appointed as the regular servant of Sanqi.
On this day, more than three hundred people were punished and rewarded, and the orders were all issued from Sima Yao.
The father of Shuyi captain Wen Fang, Sai Leng, was killed by Danwudeng's grandfather, Zhu Jiang Dan. Danwu Xun was worried that Sai Tan was a nuisance to his uncle's family, so Zaotian killed Wen because he was not guilty.
Sima Yao's brother Sima Dan repeatedly accused Sima Liang of being accused by King Sima Liang of Runan, but Sima Liang refused to listen.
At this time, because Sima Yao was arbitrary in punishments and rewards, Sima Dan took the opportunity to speak ill of Sima Yao. Sima Liang was deceived by Sizhui's rhetoric, so he dismissed Yao Sheng from his official position and returned to his mansion as a public servant. He was convicted of rebellious remarks and moved to Daifang.
In the early years of Yongkang, Sima Yao was recruited and his title was restored. His official title was Zong Zhengqing, and he was moved to the post of Shangshu and Zuopushe.
When Emperor Hui was attacking Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, Sima Yao was holding a funeral for his mother in Ye, and he persuaded Sima Ying to lay down his weapons and surrender.
When the emperor's army was defeated, Sima Ying resented Sima Yao and killed him.
Later, Sima Hun, the Marquis of Changleting, son of Sima Jin, the king of Langxie, was appointed king of Shu'an to offer sacrifices to Sima Yao.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
寻薨，国除。
淮陵元王漼字思冲。
初封广陵公，食邑二千九百户。
历左将军、散骑常侍。
赵王伦之篡也，三王起义，漼与左卫将军王舆攻杀孙秀，因而废伦。
以功进封淮陵王，入为尚书，加侍中，转宗正、光禄大夫。
薨，子贞王融立。
薨，无子，安帝时立武陵威王孙蕴为淮陵王，以奉元王之祀，位至散骑常侍。
薨，无子，以临川王宝子安之为嗣。
宋受禅，国除。
清惠亭侯京，字子佐，魏末以公子赐爵。
年二十四薨，追赠射声校尉，以文帝子机字太玄为嗣。
泰始元年，封燕王，邑六千六百六十三户。
机之国，咸宁初征为步兵校尉，以渔阳郡益其国，加侍中之服。
拜青州都督、镇东将军、假节，以北平、上谷、广宁郡一万三百三十七户增燕国为二万户。
薨，无子，齐王冏表以子几嗣。
后冏败，国除。
扶风武王骏，字子臧。
幼聪惠，年五六岁能书疏，讽诵经籍，见者奇之。
translation: 
He died soon after and the feudal state was lifted.
Sima Huai, king of Yuan Dynasty in Huailing, was named Sichong.
At first he was granted the title of Duke of Guangling, with a fief of 2,900 households.
He successively served as general of the left and regular attendant of Sanqi.
When King Sima Lun of Zhao usurped the throne, the three kings rebelled. Sima Guan and Zuowei General Wang Yu attacked and killed Sun Xiu, thus deposing Sima Lun.
Because of his meritorious service, he ascended the throne and became the King of Huai Ling. He entered the court and was appointed as the Minister, and was also appointed as the Minister, and was transferred to Zong Zheng and Guang Lu.
After his death, his son Zhenwang Sima Rong succeeded him.
He died without a son. During the reign of Emperor An, he appointed Sima Yun, the grandson of King Wulingwei, as King of Huailing to offer sacrifices to King Yuan.
He died without a son, Yilin! Wang Sima Bao's son Anzhi succeeded him.
Song accepted the abdication and the feudal state was cancelled.
Sima Jing, the Marquis of Huiting in the Qing Dynasty, was given the title Zizuo as a prince in the late Wei Dynasty.
When he died at the age of twenty-four, he was given posthumously as Captain Shesheng, and was succeeded by Emperor Wen's son Sima Ji, courtesy name Taixuan.
In the first year of Taishi, he was granted the title of King of Yan and granted 6,663 towns.
Sima Ji went to the feudal state. In the early years of Xianning, he was recruited as an infantry captain. He used Yuyang County to expand his feudal state and add clothes to his servants.
The official paid homage to the governor of Qingzhou and the general of Zhenshu. During the holidays, he used 10,337 households in Beiping, Shanggu and Guangmi counties to increase the number of Yan Kingdom to 20,000.
He died without a son, so King Sima Jian of Qi asked his son Sima Ji to succeed him.
Later, Sima Tong failed and the feudal state was cancelled.
Sima Jun, the King of Wu in Fufeng, was given the courtesy name Zizang.
He was clever when he was young, and when he was five or six years old, he could write memorials and recite scriptures, and people who saw him were amazed.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
及长，清贞守道，宗室之中最为俊望，魏景初中，封平阳亭侯。
齐王芳立，骏年八岁，为散骑常侍侍讲焉。
寻迁步兵、屯骑校尉，常侍如故。
进爵乡侯，出为平南将军、假节、都督淮北诸军事，改封平寿侯，转安东将军。
咸熙初，徙封东牟侯，转安东大将军，镇许昌。
武帝践阼，进封汝阴王，邑万户，都督豫州诸军事。
吴将丁奉寇芍陂，骏督诸军距退之。
迁使持节、都督扬州诸军事，代石苞镇寿春。
寻复都督豫州，还镇许昌。
迁镇西大将军、使持节、都督雍凉等州诸军事，代汝南王亮镇关中，加衮冕侍中之服。
骏善扶御，有威恩，劝督农桑，与士卒分役，已及僚佐并将帅兵士等人限田十亩，具以表闻。
translation: 
When he grows up, he will be quiet, upright and upright, and he will have the best reputation in the clan. In the middle of Wei Jingchu's reign, he was named Pingyang Tinghou.
King Cao Fang of Qi came to the throne. Sima Jun was eight years old and became a regular attendant of Sanqi.
Soon he was transferred to the rank of captain of infantry and garrison cavalry, but his position of permanent attendant remained the same.
He was promoted to the title of Marquis of Xiang, and served as General Pingnan, Jiajie, and Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Huaibei. He was renamed Pingshouhou and transferred to General Anshu.
In the early years of Xianxi's reign, he was granted the title of Dongmouhou and transferred to General Andong to guard Xuchang.
After Emperor Wu ascended the throne, the Jin Dynasty granted him the title of King of Ruyin, granting him a fief of 10,000 households and commanding the military affairs of Yuzhou.
General Ding Feng of the State of Wu invaded Shaopi, and Sima Jun led the army to resist and repel the enemy.
He was moved to the post of envoy Chijie and governor of Yangzhou's military affairs, and guarded Shouchun in place of Shi Bao.
Soon he was in charge of Yuzhou and returned to guard Xuchang.
He was moved to the post of General of Zhenxi, Envoy Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of Yongliang and other state military affairs. He replaced Sima Liang, King of Runan, to guard Guanzhong. He was also awarded the attire of Gunmian Shizhong.
Sima Jun was good at appeasing the rulers and had majesty and kindness. He advised and supervised agriculture and mulberry planting, and shared labor with the soldiers. He, his staff, assistants, generals and soldiers were limited to farming ten acres, and they all reported to the table.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
诏遣普下州县，使各务农事。
咸宁初，羌虏树机能等叛，遣众讨之，斩三千余级。
进位征西大将军。开府辟召，仪同三司，持节、都督如故。
又诏骏遣七千人代凉州守兵。
树机能、侯弹勃等欲先劫佃兵，骏命平虏护军文俶督凉、秦、雍诸军各进屯以威之。
机能乃遣所领二十部弹勃面缚军门，各遣入质子。
安定、北地、金城诸胡吉轲罗、侯金多及北虏热冏等二十万口又来降。
其年入朝，徙封扶风王，以氐户在国界者增封，给羽葆、鼓吹。
太康初，进拜骠骑将军，开府、持节、都督如故。
骏有孝行，母伏太妃随兄亮在官，骏常涕泣思慕，若闻有疾，辄忧惧不食，或时委官定省。
translation: 
Shaoshu's orders spread to all states and counties, allowing people to engage in farming.
In the early years of Xianning, Shu Jigeng and others of the Qiang tribe rebelled. Sima Jun sent many people to attack them and killed more than 3,000 people.
After ascending to the throne, he became the General of the Conquest of the West. The Ministry of Construction recruited auxiliary officials and appointed them as the third division of Yitong. The positions of Chijie and Governor remained the same.
Shao also ordered Sima Jun to send 7,000 men to replace the Liangzhou garrison.
Shu Jingneng, Hou Tanbo and others wanted to plunder the tenant soldiers first, but Sima Jun ordered the Pinglu Guards Wen to imitate the armies of Du Liang, Qin and Yong to march and garrison troops to deter them.
Ji Feng then sent the twenty troops under his command and Danbo, who tied him behind his back, to the military gate, and each sent his own son as a hostage.
Another 200,000 people including Ji Keluo, Hou Jinduo and Beilu Re from the Anding, Beidi and Jincheng areas came to surrender.
In the first year of the Han Dynasty, Sima Jun entered the dynasty and changed his title to King Fufeng. He used people whose households were within the boundaries of the feudal state to increase the number of households in his feudal town and gave it to Yu Bao and Guan.
In the early years of Taikang, Jin was granted the title of General of Hussars, and the positions of Kaifu, Chijie, and Governor remained.
Sima Jun had a filial character. His mother, Concubine Fu, followed his brother Sima Liang in the official position. Sima Jun often cried and missed her. If he heard that his mother was sick, he would worry about not being able to eat. Sometimes he would put down his official position to visit her and pay her respects.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
少好学，能著论，与荀顗论仁孝先后，文有可称。
及齐王攸出镇，骏表谏恳切，以帝不从，遂发病薨。
追赠大司马，加侍中、假黄钺。
西土闻其薨也，泣者盈路，百姓为之树碑，长老见碑无不下拜，其遗爱如此。
有子十人，暢、歆最知名。
暢字玄舒。
改封顺阳王，拜给事中、屯骑校尉、游击将军。
永嘉末，刘聪入洛，不知所终。
新野庄王歆字弘舒。
武王薨后，兄暢推恩请分国封歆。
太康中，诏封新野县公，邑千八百户，仪比县王。
歆虽少贵，而谨身履道。
母臧太妃薨，居丧过礼，以孝闻。
拜散骑常侍。
赵王伦篡位，以为南中郎将。
translation: 
He was eager to learn when he was young, and was able to write books and treatises. He discussed the sequence of benevolence and filial piety with Xun Zhi, and his articles were commendable.
When Sima You, King of Qi, left the capital to go to his own kingdom, Sima Jun came forward to persuade the emperor sincerely, but because the emperor refused, he fell ill and died.
As a posthumous gift to the Grand Sima, he was given the title of Shizhong and Fake Huangtie.
When people in the west heard that he was dead, people all over the road cried for him, and the people erected monuments for him. When the elders saw the monument, they all bowed down. This is the love he left behind.
He has ten sons, Sima Chang and Sima Xin are the most famous.
Sima Changzi came to visit.
He was renamed King of Shunyang, and his official title was given to Shizhong, Tunqi Xiaowei, and guerrilla general.
In the last years of Chengtai's reign, the plastic pendant entered the Pirates, and I don't know what happened to Sima Chang.
Sima Xin, the king of Xinye Village, was named Hongshu.
After King Wu died, his elder brother Sima Chang extended his favor and requested to divide the country and grant it to Sima Xin.
During the Taikang period, Sima Xin was granted the title of Duke of Xinye County in Xiashao, granting 1,800 households, and the etiquette was the same as that of the county king.
Although Sima Xin was young and rich, he was able to fulfill his moral principles carefully.
When his mother, Concubine Zang, passed away, she went beyond etiquette in mourning and was famous for her filial piety.
The official worships Sanqi as a regular attendant.
King Zhao Sima Lun usurped the throne and made Sima Xin the general of Nanzhonglang.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
齐王冏举义兵，移檄天下，歆未知所从。
嬖人王绥曰： 赵亲而强，齐疏而弱，公宜从赵。
参军孙洵大言于众曰： 赵王凶逆，天下当共讨之，大义灭亲，古之明典。
歆从之。
乃使洵诣冏，冏迎执其手曰： 使我得成大节者，新野公也。
冏入洛，歆躬贯甲胄，率所领导冏。
以勋进封新野郡王，邑二万户。
迁使持节、都督荆州诸军事、镇南大将军、开府仪同三司。
歆将之镇，与冏同乘谒陵，因说冏曰： 成都至亲，同建大勋，今宜留之与辅政。
若不能尔，当夺其兵权。
冏不从。
俄而冏败，歆惧，自结于成都王颖。
歆为政严刻，蛮夷并怨。
及张昌作乱于江夏，歆表请讨之。
时长沙王乂执政，与成都王颖有隙，疑歆与颖连谋，不听歆出兵，昌众日盛。
时孙洵为从事中郎，谓歆曰： 古人有言，一日纵敌，数世之患。
公荷籓屏之任，居推毂之重，拜表辄行，有何不可！
而使奸凶滋蔓，祸衅不测，岂维翰王室，镇静方夏之谓乎！
歆将出军，王绥又曰： 昌等小贼，偏裨自足制之，不烦违帝命，亲矢石也！
乃止。
translation: 
King Sima Tong of Qi mobilized rebels and sent messages throughout the world, but Sima Xin didn't know who to listen to.
The favored Wang Sui said: King Zhao is close and powerful, while King Qi is distant and weak, so I should follow King Zhao.
Sun Xun, who joined the army, said loudly to everyone: King Zhao is cruel and rebellious, and the whole world should work together to defeat him. It is the law of the ancient sages to destroy relatives for justice.
Sima Xin obeyed him.
So he sent Sun Xun to see Sima Tong. Sima Jian went up to him and took his hand and said, "The person who enables me to achieve great integrity is Xinye Gong."
When Sima Jian entered Luoyang, Sima Xin personally wore armor and led his men to serve as Sima Jian's guide.
Because of his meritorious service, he was granted the title of Prince of Xinye County and granted the title of 20,000 households.
He was moved to the post of envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Jingzhou, general Zhennan, and Kaifu Yitong.
Sima Xin was about to go to his post and drove with Sima Tong to visit the mausoleum. He took the opportunity to persuade Sima Tong: "The King of Chengdu is a close relative and has made great achievements together. Now he should be retained to assist in the government."
If that doesn't work, he should be deprived of his military power.
Sima Tong refused to obey.
Soon after Sima Jian failed, Sima Xin was frightened and took the initiative to befriend Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu.
Sima Xin's governance was harsh and harsh, and the barbarians complained.
When Zhang Chang caused rebellion in Jiangxia, Sima Xin petitioned to punish him.
At that time, Changsha King Sima Yi was in power and had conflicts with Chengdu King Sima Ying. He suspected that Sima Xin was conspiring with Sima Ying and prevented Sima Xin from sending troops. Zhang Chang's troops became stronger day by day.
At that time, Sun Xun was appointed as a lieutenant and said to Sima Xin: The ancients said that one day of appeasing an adulterer can cause trouble for several generations.
The Duke is responsible for the royal family's barrier and is in an important position to assist the court. He can act as soon as he submits the seal. What's wrong with that?
If evil and evil grow and spread, and disasters are difficult to predict, can this be called supporting the royal family to pacify the Central Plains?
Sima Xin was about to send troops, and Wang Sui said again: "Zhang Chang and other small bandits can be subdued by his own generals. There is no need to disobey the emperor's orders and go to the battlefield in person!"
So he withdrew his troops.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
昌至樊城，歆出距之，众溃，为昌所害。
追赠骠骑将军。
无子，以兄子劭为后，永嘉末没于石勒。
梁孝王肜，字子徽，清修恭慎，无他才能，以公子封平乐亭侯。
及五等建，改封开平子。
武帝践阼，封梁王，邑五千三百五十八户。
及之国，迁北中郎将，督鄴城守事。
时诸王自选官属，肜以汝阴上计吏张蕃为中大夫。
蕃素无行，本名雄，妻刘氏解音乐，为曹爽教伎，蕃又往来何晏所，而恣为奸淫。
晏诛，徙河间，乃变名自结于肜。
为有司所奏，诏削一县。
咸宁中，复以陈国、汝南南顿增封为次国。
太康中，代孔洵监豫州军事，加平东将军，镇许昌。
顷之，又以本官代下邳王晃监青徐州军事，进号安东将军。
元康初，转征西将军，代秦王柬都督关中军事，领护西戎校尉。
加侍中，进督梁州。
寻征为卫将军、录尚书事，行太子太保，给千兵百骑。
久之，复为征西大将军，代赵王伦镇关中，都督凉、雍诸军事，置左右长史、司马。
又领西戎校尉，屯好畤，督建威将军周处、振威将军卢播等伐氐贼齐万年于六陌。
肜与处有隙，促令进军而绝其后，播又不救之，故处见害。
朝廷尤之。
寻征拜大将军、尚书令、领军将军、录尚书事。
translation: 
When Zhang Chang arrived at Fancheng, Sima Xin sent troops to resist him. The army was defeated and Zhang Chang killed him.
Posthumously awarded the title of General of Hussars.
He had no sons, so his elder brother's son Sima Shao was his heir. Yongjia died in Shile in the last years of his life.
Liang Xiaowang Sima Xu was named Zihui. He practiced Qingjing, was respectful and prudent, and had no other talents. As a young master, he was named Pingletinghou.
When the fifth-class title was established, he was renamed Kaipingzi.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and named him King of Liang, granting him 5,358 households.
When he left the enfeoffed country, he was moved to the position of Beizhonglang General and supervised the defense of Yecheng.
At that time, the kings selected their own officials and subordinates, and Sima Shu selected Zhang Fan, the chief official of Ruyin, as the middle official.
Zhang Fan has never been of good character. His real name is Xiong, and his wife Liu knows music and teaches singing to Cao Shuang. Zhang Fan visited He Yan again and committed adultery as he pleased.
He Yan was killed and moved to Hejian, so he changed his name and took the initiative to befriend Sima Xu.
After being reported by relevant officials, Sima Xu was reduced to one county in Xia Shao.
During the Xianning period, Chen Guo and Runan Nandun were added as vassal states.
During the Taikang period, he replaced Kong Xun in supervising the military affairs of Yuzhou, and was appointed General Pingdong to guard Xu Lu.
Soon, he replaced Sima Huang, King of Xiapi, in his original position as supervising the military affairs of Qingzhou and Xuzhou, and was promoted to General Anton.
In the early years of Yuankang, he was transferred to the general of Zhengxi, replacing the Qin King Sima Sai to supervise the military affairs in Guanzhong, and also served as the captain of the Xirong Guards.
He was appointed as a minister and promoted to supervise Liangzhou.
Soon after, he was appointed as General of the Guard, recorded as a minister, acted as the crown prince's Taibao, and was given the title of one thousand soldiers and one hundred horses.
Much later, he was appointed as the General of the Expedition to the West, replacing King Sima Lun of Zhao to guard Guanzhong. He was also the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Liang and Yong, and appointed the left and right Chang Shi and Sima.
He also served as the captain of the Xirong School, stationed troops in Haozhi, and supervised General Jianwei Qiechu, Zhenwei General Lu Zhong and others in Liumo against the Di enemy bandit Cha Wannian.
There was a conflict between Sima Xu and Dan, who urged him to march and cut off his support. Lu Bo did not save him, so Zhou Chu was killed.
The court accused Sima Xu.
Soon he was recruited as a general, a minister, a leading general, and a minister.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
肜尝大会，谓参军王铨曰： 我从兄为尚书令，不能啖大脔。
大脔故难。
铨曰： 公在此独嚼，尚难矣。
肜曰： 长史大脔为谁？
曰： 卢播是也。
肜曰： 是家吏，隐之耳。
铨曰： 天下咸是家吏，便恐王法不可复行。
肜又曰： 我在长安，作何等不善！
因指单衣补幰以为清。
铨答曰： 朝野望公举荐贤才，使不仁者远。
而位居公辅，以衣补幰，以此为清，无足称也。
肜有惭色。
永康初，共赵王伦废贾后，诏以肜为太宰、守尚书令，增封二万户。
赵王伦辅政，有星变，占曰 不利上相。
孙秀惧伦受灾，乃省司徒为丞相，以授肜，猥加崇进，欲以应之。
或曰： 肜无权，不益也。
肜固让不受。
及伦篡位，以肜为阿衡，给武贲百人，轩悬之乐十人。
translation: 
Sima Xu once held a gathering of guests and said to the army workers: My cousin is serving as a minister and cannot swallow his power.
Rights are hard to come by.
Wang She said: "It is difficult for the Duke to monopolize power here."
Sima Xu said: Who is the most powerful in the long history?
He replied: It's Lu Bo.
Sima Xu said: "That's a retainer, don't mention him."
Wang Quan said: "Everyone in the world is a retainer. I'm afraid the king's law can no longer be implemented."
Sima Xu said again: I am in Chang'an, what can I do wrong?
So he pointed at his single clothes and recalled that he was honest.
Wang Quan replied: Inside and outside the imperial court, the public is expected to recommend talented people to keep the unkind people away from the imperial court.
And you are the Third Duke and Assistant Prime Minister. Because you are single-clothed, you regard this as incorruptible and not worthy of praise.
Sima Xu looked ashamed.
In the early years of Yongkang, after deposing Jia together with King Sima Lun, the imperial edict appointed Sima Xu as Dazai, keeper of the Shangshu Order, and increased the number of 20,000 households in the fiefdom.
King Sima Lun of Zhao was assisting in government affairs. There were changes in the astrology, and the divination results were unfavorable for the prime minister.
Sun Xiu was afraid that Sima Lun would suffer disaster, so he reduced Situ to the position of prime minister and gave this position to Sima Xu, and promoted him in an attempt to reconcile the stars.
Some people say: Sima Xu has no power and no benefits.
Sima Wei firmly refused and refused to accept.
When Sima Lun usurped the throne, he appointed Sima Xu to take charge of the government, and gave him a hundred warriors and Xuan Xuan's band of ten.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
伦灭，诏以肜为太宰，领司徒，又代高密王泰为宗师。
永康二年薨，丧葬依汝南文成王亮故事。
博士陈留蔡克议谥曰： 肜位为宰相，责深任重，属尊亲近，且为宗师，朝所仰望，下所具瞻。
而临大节，无不可夺之志；当危事，不能舍生取义；愍怀之废，不闻一言之谏；淮南之难，不能因势辅义；赵王伦篡逆，不能引身去朝。
宋有荡氏之乱，华元自以不能居官，曰 君臣之训，我所司也。
公室卑而不正，吾罪大矣！
夫以区区之宋，犹有不素餐之臣，而况帝王之朝，而有苟容之相，此而不贬，法将何施！
谨案《谥法》 不勤成名曰灵 ，肜见义不为，不可谓勤，宜谥曰灵。
translation: 
After Sima Lun was destroyed, the imperial edict appointed Sima Xu as the Grand Administrator and Situ, and he replaced Sima Tai, King of Gaomi, as the Grand Master.
Yongning died in the second year of his life, and his funeral was in accordance with the precedent of Sima Liang, King Wencheng of Runan.
Doctor Chen Liuren Cai Ke commented on Mi Hao and said: Sima Shu's official position is that of prime minister, with great responsibilities, his kinship is noble and close, and he is also a master. He is respected by the court and looked up to by the people.
However, in the face of major festivals, there is no unchangeable ambition; in the face of dangerous things, one cannot give up his life to pursue justice; when Prince Huai was deposed, he did not hear a word of advice from him; when the King of Huainan was in trouble, he could not take advantage of the situation to support justice; King Sima Lun of Zhao usurped the throne and rebelled, and could not leave the court.
There was turmoil in the Song Dynasty due to the Dang clan. Hua Yuanbai believed that he could not hold an official position and said: I am in charge of the rules of the monarch and his ministers.
My official position is low and I cannot correct it. What a big sin I have committed!
In the small Song Dynasty, there were still ministers who were not rewarded for their merits. What's more, in the emperor's court, there is a prime minister who lives in poverty. If it is not derogatory, how can the rule of law be implemented?
"The Hanging Method" If he was not diligent in his duties, he would be named Ling. If Sima Shu did not do what was right when he saw it, he could not be said to be diligent, so he should be given the nickname "Ling".


Chunk 15: 
original: 
梁国常侍孙霖及肜亲党称枉，台乃下符曰： 贾氏专权，赵王伦篡逆，皆力制朝野，肜势不得去，而责其不能引身去朝，义何所据？
克重议曰： 肜为宗臣，而国乱不能匡，主颠不能扶，非所以为相。
故《春秋》讥华元乐举，谓之不臣。
且贾氏之酷烈，不甚于吕后，而王陵犹得杜门；赵王伦之无道，不甚于殷纣，而微子犹得去之。
近者太尉陈准，异姓之人，加弟徽有射钩之隙，亦得托疾辞位，不涉伪朝。
何至于肜亲伦之兄，而独不得去乎？
赵盾入谏不从，出亡不远，犹不免于责，况肜不能去位，北面事伪主乎？
宜如前议，加其贬责，以广为臣之节，明事君之道。
于是朝廷从克议。
肜故吏复追诉不已，故改焉。
translation: 
Liang Guochang's attendant Sun Lin and Sima Xu's cronies claimed that they were wronged, and the government issued an official document saying: Jia's dictatorial power, and King Sima Lun's usurpation and rebellion, both used force to control the inside and outside of the court. Sima Xu could not leave under that situation, and what is the basis for accusing him of being unable to leave the court?
Cai Ke discussed it again and said: Sima Xu is a minister of the clan, but the country is in turmoil and cannot be rectified. The monarch cannot be supported when he is overthrown. This is not how a prime minister should be.
Therefore, "Spring and Autumn" ridiculed Huayuan Leju, saying that they were not like ministers.
Besides, Mai's cruelty and violence were no more severe than those of Empress Lu, but Wang Ling was still able to stay behind closed doors; King Sima Lun of Zhao's cruelty was no more serious than that of King Zhou of Yin, but Wei Zi was still able to leave.
In modern times, there is Taiwei Chen Zhun, a man with a foreign surname. Because his brother Chen Huiyou had betrayed King Sima Lun and had an old grudge, he was able to claim to be ill and not join the puppet court.
What's more, Sima Xu is Sima Lun's biological brother, but he can't leave?
Zhao Dun's advice to the court was not heeded, and he fled but did not go far. He was not immune from the guilt. What's more, Sima Xu could not resign his official position and face the north to serve the false monarch.
He should be derogated and criticized according to the previous discussion to promote the integrity of ministers and clarify the principles of serving the king.
So the court followed Cai Ke's argument.
Sima Xu's former subordinates continued to pursue complaints, so he changed his nickname.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
无子，以武陵王澹子禧为后，是为怀王，拜征虏将军，与澹俱没于石勒。
元帝时，以西阳王羕子悝为肜嗣，早薨，是为殇王。
至是怀王子翘自石氏归国得立，是为声王，官至散骑常侍。
薨，无子，诏以武陵威王子逢为翘嗣，历永安太仆，与父晞俱废徙新安。
薨，太元中复国，子和立。
薨，子珍之立。
桓玄篡位，国臣孔璞奉珍之奔于寿阳，义熙初乃归，累迁左卫将军、太常卿。
刘裕伐姚泓，请为谘议参军，为裕所害。国除。
文帝九男，文明王皇后生武帝、齐献王攸、城阳哀王兆、辽东悼惠王定国、广汉殇王广德，其乐安平王鉴、燕王机、皇子永祚、乐平王延祚不知母氏。
燕王机继清惠亭侯，别有传。
永祚早亡，无传。
齐献王攸，字大猷，少而岐嶷。
translation: 
Sima Xu had no sons, so he was succeeded by Sima Xi, the son of Sima Dan, King of Wuling, who was also King Huai. The official worshiped the general Zhenglu, and both died in Shile with Sima Dan.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, Sima Kui, the son of Sima Su, King of Xiyang, was the descendant of Sima Xu. He died early and became the Shang King.
At this time, Dan Moqiao, the son of King Tan, returned from the mutual pressure and succeeded to the throne. He was also King Sheng, and his official position was to serve as a regular attendant.
He died without a son. The imperial edict ordered Sima Lian, the son of King Wulingwei, to succeed Si Qusu, who successively served as the prime minister's servant. He and his father Dan Quzhong were deposed and moved to Xin'an.
After his death, the feudal state was restored during the Taiyuan period, and his son Sima Su succeeded to the throne.
After death, he was succeeded by his son Zhen.
Huanxuan usurped the throne, and Kong Pu, the minister of the feudal state, fled to Shouyang. He returned in the early years of Yixi and gradually moved to the post of General Zuowei and Taichang Qing.
Liu Yu crusades against Yao Xun, please! Rei joins the army as a consultant. He is killed by the plastic pass, and the feudal state is cancelled.
Emperor Wen had nine sons, including Emperor Wenming, Wang You of Qi Xian, Wang Zhao of Chengyang Ai, Wang Dingguo of Liaohui, and Guangde of Guanghan. Wang Jian of Anping, Ji of Yan, Prince Yongzuo, and Yanzuo of Leping didn't know who their mothers were.
There is another legend about King Yan's successor Qing Huitingbao.
Yong Zuo died early and did not pass on.
The king of Qi Xian, Sima You, was named Dayou. Be wise at a young age.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
及长，清和平允，亲贤好施，爱经籍，能属文，善尺牍，为世所楷。
才望出武帝之右，宣帝每器之。
景帝无子，命攸为嗣。
从征王凌，封长乐亭侯。
及景帝崩，攸年十岁，哀动左右，大见称叹。
袭封舞阳侯。
奉景献羊后于别第，事后以孝闻。
复历散骑常侍、步兵校尉，时年十八，绥抚营部，甚有威惠。
五等建，改封安昌侯，迁卫将军。
居文帝丧，哀毁过礼，杖而后起。
左右以稻米干饭杂理中丸进之，攸泣而不受。
太后自往勉喻曰： 若万一加以他疾，将复如何！
宜远虑深计，不可专守一志。
常遣人逼进饮食，司马嵇喜又谏曰： 毁不灭性，圣人之教。
且大王地即密亲，任惟元辅。
translation: 
When he grows up, he will be calm, kind and fair, be close to wise people, like charity, like classic books, be able to write articles, be good at letters, and be imitated by the world.
His talent and reputation were greater than those of Emperor Wu, and Emperor Xuan often valued him.
Emperor Jing had no sons, so he made Sima You his heir.
He followed Wang Jun in his campaign and was named the Marquis of Changle Pavilion.
When Emperor Jing died, Sima You was only ten years old. His sorrow moved the people around him and he was praised and praised.
Inherited the title of Wuyang Hou.
After serving Jing Xian Yang in another mansion, he became famous for his filial piety when serving the queen.
He also served as a regular servant of the cavalry and an infantry captain. He was 18 years old at the time. He appeased the subordinates in the military camp and was very majestic and gracious.
The fifth-level title was established, and he was renamed Anchanghou and moved to General Wei.
In mourning for Emperor Wen, he was so disfigured that he could only stand up with a wooden stick.
His subordinates made rice balls into balls for him to eat, but Sima You cried and refused to accept them.
The Queen Mother personally went to enlighten him and said: What should I do if I get other diseases?
You should think long-term and not stick to one idea.
He often sent people to force Sima You to eat, but Sima Jixi remonstrated and said: "Be sad without losing your temper. This is the teaching of a saint."
Moreover, the king is a close relative of the clan and has the important task of assisting in government affairs.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
匹夫犹惜其命，以为祖宗，况荷天下之大业，辅帝室之重任，而可尽无极之哀，与颜闵争孝！
不可令贤人笑，愚人幸也。
喜躬自进食，攸不得已，为之强饭。
喜退，攸谓左右曰： 嵇司马将令我不忘居丧之节，得存区区之身耳。
武帝践阼，封齐王，时朝廷草创，而攸总统军事，抚宁内外，莫不景附焉。
诏议籓王令自选国内长吏，攸奏议曰； 昔圣王封建万国，以亲诸侯，轨迹相承，莫之能改。
诚以君不世居，则人心偷幸；人无常主，则风俗伪薄。
是以先帝深览经远之统，思复先哲之轨，分土画疆，建爵五等，或以进德，或以酬功。
伏惟陛下应期创业，树建亲戚，听使籓国自除长吏。
而今草创，制度初立，虽庸蜀顺轨，吴犹未宾，宜俟清泰，乃议复古之制。
translation: 
Ordinary people still cherish their lives for the sake of their ancestors, not to mention that you are responsible for the great cause of the world and the important task of assisting the royal family. How can you express your boundless sorrow and compete with Yan Yuan and Min Sun for filial piety!
Don't let wise people laugh at you and fools rejoice.
Ji happy personally served food and drinks, but Sima You had no choice but to eat.
After Ji Xi withdrew, Sima You said to the people around him: "Ji Sima will make me remember the etiquette of mourning and preserve my small body."
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and named Sima You King of Qi. At that time, the imperial court had just been established, and Sima You was in charge of the military affairs. He was responsible for the control of Anning both inside and outside.
Shao Shu discussed how the vassal king asked them to choose the senior officials in the country. Sima You reported: In the past, the sage kings established feudal kingdoms to get close to the princes. The rules were passed down from generation to generation and no one could change them.
The truth is that if the king is not passed down from generation to generation, people will be left to chance; if people do not have stable masters, their customs will be hypocritical and honest.
Therefore, the late emperor deeply studied the orthodoxy that governs all ages, and considered restoring the rules of the ancient sages, dividing land boundaries, and establishing five levels of nobility, either to promote virtue or to reward meritorious officials.
I thought that Your Majesty was following the will of God to establish a great cause, establish feudal relatives, and let the vassal state appoint senior officials on its own.
However, the great cause is now being established and the system has just been established. Although Yongshu is obedient, Wu has not yet surrendered. We should wait until the Qing Dynasty is peaceful before discussing the restoration of the ancient system.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
书比三上，辄报不许。
其后国相上长吏缺，典书令请求差选。
攸下令曰： 忝受恩礼，不称惟忧。
至于官人叙才，皆朝廷之事，非国所宜裁也。
其令自上请之。
时王家人衣食皆出御府，攸表租秩足以自供，求绝之。
前后十余上，帝又不许。
攸虽未之国，文武官属，下至士卒，分租赋以给之，疾病死丧赐与之。
而时有水旱，国内百姓则加振贷，须丰年乃责，十减其二，国内赖之。
迁骠骑将军，开府辟召，礼同三司。
降身虚己，待物以信。
常叹公府不案吏，然以董御戎政，复有威克之宜，乃下教曰： 夫先王驭世，明罚敕法，鞭扑作教，以正逋慢。
translation: 
The memorial was sent three times in succession, and they all responded that they disagreed.
After this, the Prime Minister reported that there was a shortage of high-ranking officials, and Dian Shuling requested that they be dispatched and recommended.
Sima You issued an order: "I am unworthy of the favor and courtesy, and I am worried about my incompetence."
As for the appointment of officials and the discussion of talents, it is a matter for the imperial court and not a matter for the feudal state to decide.
I command to ask for this.
At that time, the royal family was provided with food and clothing by the royal family. Sima You said in court that the rent and salary were sufficient to support himself, and requested that no more supplies be provided.
I went to the table more than ten times before and after, but the emperor did not allow it.
Although Sima You did not go to his own feudal country, he distributed rents, taxes, and salaries to civil and military officials, down to the soldiers, and gave them gifts in case of illness, death, and funeral.
Sometimes droughts and floods occur, and the people in the country are provided with loans and relief, and they are not recovered until a good harvest year. The amount is at least two-tenths, and the country relies on him.
He was moved to the post of general of hussars, and a government office was set up to recruit auxiliary officials. The etiquette was like that of the third division.
Lower your status to make yourself humble and treat others with integrity.
He often lamented that the government did not examine officials, but only by using inspectors to control the military and government would there be appropriate majestic restraint, so he issued an edict saying: The previous emperors ruled the country, clarified punishments and rectified the laws, and used whipping as a teaching method to correct delays and neglect.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
且唐虞之朝，犹须督责。
前欲撰次其事，使粗有常。
惧烦简之宜，未审其要，故令刘、程二君详定。
然思惟之，郑铸刑书，叔向不韪；范宣议制，仲尼讥之。
令皆如旧，无所增损。
其常节度所不及者，随事处决。
诸吏各竭乃心，思同在公古人之节。
如有所阙，以赖股肱匡救之规，庶以免负。
于是内外祗肃。
时骠骑当罢营兵，兵士数千人恋攸恩德，不肯去，遮京兆主言之，帝乃还攸兵。
攸每朝政大议，悉心陈之。
诏以比年饥馑，议所节省，攸奏议曰： 臣闻先王之教，莫不先正其本。
务农重本，国之大纲。
当今方隅清穆，武夫释甲，广分休假，以就农业。
然守相不能勤心恤公，以尽地利。
translation: 
Moreover, in the Tang and Yu dynasties, there were still inspections and demands.
Previously I wanted to discuss how to create something to roughly fix the inspection law.
He was also worried about whether it was appropriate in the traditional and simplified versions and failed to review its key points, so he ordered Liu and Cheng to examine it in detail.
However, I also thought that when Zheng Guo cast a punishment book, Shu Xiang denied it; when Fan Xuan discussed the system, Quan Xing ridiculed him.
The order is completely in accordance with the old scriptures, without any addition or derogation.
Those that are not covered by ordinary rules shall be determined based on the circumstances of the matter.
It is the ethics of the ancients that all officials should do their best and concentrate on official matters.
If there are any deficiencies, it is up to the imperial ministers to correct the regulations on rescue, and they can almost avoid responsibility.
So the inside and outside were respectful and tidy.
At that time, the position of hussar should be eliminated from the camp. Thousands of soldiers were attached to Sima You's kindness and refused to leave. They stopped the officials in Jingzhao and complained, so the emperor returned Sima You's camp.
Whenever Sima You participated in discussions about government affairs, he would state them in detail.
Shaoshu thought that there had been famine for many years and discussed how to save money. Sima You reported: I have heard that the teachings of the previous emperors never failed to correct the fundamentals.
Paying attention to the fundamentals of agriculture is the outline of the country.
Now that there is peace in all directions, the warriors take off their armor and take vacations to engage in agriculture.
However, local officials cannot make the best use of the geographical advantages by being considerate of official duties.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
昔汉宣叹曰： 与朕理天下者，惟良二千石乎！
勤加赏罚，黜陟幽明，于时翕然，用多名守。
计今地有余羡，而不农者众，加附业之人复有虚假，通天下谋之，则饥者必不少矣。
今宜严敕州郡，检诸虚诈害农之事，督实南亩，上下同奉所务。
则天下之谷可复古政，岂患于暂一水旱，便忧饥馁哉！
考绩黜陟，毕使严明，畏威怀惠，莫不自厉。
又都邑之内，游食滋多，巧伎末业，服饰奢丽，富人兼美，犹有魏之遗弊，染化日浅，靡财害谷，动复万计。
宜申明旧法，必禁绝之。
使去奢即俭，不夺农时，毕力稼穑，以实仓廪。
则荣辱礼节，由之而生，兴化反本，于兹为盛。
translation: 
In the past, Emperor Moxuan sighed and said: The only people who rule the world with me are good prefects!
Timely rewards and punishments were imposed, and weak officials were dismissed and virtuous ministers were promoted. At that time, it was very stable, and most of the people appointed were famous prefects.
Considering that there is a surplus of land and there are many people who do not work in agriculture, and there are some falsehoods among those who have joined agriculture, if we consider the whole country, there must be many people who are hungry.
Now we should sternly order the prefectures and counties to check the hypocrisy and fraud that harms agriculture, urge the replenishment of farmland, and pay attention to what they are doing together.
In this way, the grains in the world can be restored to the level of ancient times. Should we still worry about famine because of temporary floods and droughts?
When assessing political performance and deciding on dismissal or promotion, the requirements must be strict, and everyone should be afraid of authority and grateful, and everyone should work hard on their own.
In addition, in the city, more and more people have food to eat without farming. With the help of craftsmanship and other industries, the clothes are luxurious and gorgeous, and the rich are even more luxurious. There are still the shortcomings left by Wei Qian. They did not receive education for a long time and waste money and food, often counting in the tens of thousands.
It should be stated that past laws must prohibit this phenomenon.
Make people give up luxury and change to frugality, do not encroach on the farming season, and work hard to cultivate and harvest to fill the warehouse.
This etiquette of honor and disgrace was born from then on, and education was brought back to the basics, and it prospered from then on.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
转镇军大将军，加侍中，羽葆、鼓吹，行太子少傅。
数年，授太子太傅，献箴于太子曰： 伊昔上皇，建国立君，仰观天文，俯察地理，创业恢道，以安人承祀，祚延统重，故援立太子。
尊以弘道，固以贰己，储德既立，邦有所恃。
夫亲仁者功成，迩佞者国倾，故保相之材，必择贤明。
昔在周成，旦奭作傅，外以明德自辅，内以亲亲立固，德以义济，亲则自然。
嬴废公族，其崩如山；刘建子弟，汉祚永傅。
楚以无极作乱，宋以伊戾兴难。
张禹佞给，卒危强汉。
辅弼不忠，祸及乃躬；匪徒乃躬，乃丧乃邦。
无曰父子不间，昔有江充；无曰至亲匪贰，或容潘崇。
谀言乱真，谮润离亲，骊姬之谗。晋侯疑申。
固亲以道，勿固以恩；修身以敬，勿托以尊。
自损者有余，自益者弥昏。
庶事不可以不恤，大本不可以不敦。
见亡戒危，睹安思存。
translation: 
He was transferred to the general of the Zhenjun Army, and was also appointed as a servant. He used Yu Bao, advocate, and acted as the prince's young master.
A few years later, he was appointed as the prince's tutor. He advised the prince: In the past, the ancient emperors established the country and established the throne. They looked up at the astronomy and looked down at the geography. They established great causes and promoted morality to stabilize the people and inherit the sacrifices. Fu Zuo continued the Taoism and passed down the tradition, so he established the prince.
Use your great moral principles to make him noble, and use your status as deputy to make his position stable. Once the prince's virtue is established, the country will have support.
Those princes who were kind and benevolent succeeded in their achievements, while those who were close to treacherous princes overthrew their country. Therefore, the candidate to protect the prime minister must be a wise man.
In the past, during the reign of King Cheng of the Zhou Dynasty, Dan Shi served as a Fu. He relied on his virtue to support himself externally, and sought stability internally by being kind to his family. His virtue relied on righteousness to achieve success, and he did not force himself on kindness.
The Ying family abandoned the clan, and its collapse was like a landslide; the Liu family's feudal descendants, the imperial legacy of the Han Dynasty will be passed down for a long time.
Chu was in trouble because of Wuji, and Song was in trouble because of Yili.
Zhang Yu was a eloquent speaker, which ultimately endangered the powerful Han Dynasty.
If the person you assist is disloyal, disaster will befall your body; not only your body, but also your country will be destroyed.
Don't say that there will be no estrangement between father and son. There was a precedent of Jiang Chong in the past; don't say that there is no love between close relatives. There may be people like Pan Chong.
Flattery can confuse the truth, false accusation can alienate relatives, and Li Ji's slander made the Marquis of Jin doubt Shen Sheng.
To strengthen family ties, we need to rely on Tao, not kindness; to cultivate ourselves, we need to rely on respect, not on dignity.
People who depreciate themselves have room for success, while people who are self-satisfied are even more stupid.
We must be considerate in all kinds of matters, and we must be kind in fundamental matters.
When you see destruction, you should be alert to danger; when you see stability, you should think of survival.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
冢子司义，敢告在阍。
世以为工。
咸宁二年，代贾充为司空，侍中、太傅如故。
初，攸特为文帝所宠爱，每见攸，辄抚床呼其小字曰 此桃符座也 ，几为太子者数矣。
及帝寝疾，虑攸不安，为武帝叙汉淮南王、魏陈思故事而泣。
临崩，执攸手以授帝。
先是太后有疾，既瘳，帝与攸奉觞上寿，攸以太后前疾危笃，因歔欷流涕，帝有愧焉。
攸尝侍帝疾，恆有忧戚之容，时人以此称叹之。
及太后临崩，亦流涕谓帝曰： 桃符性急，而汝为兄不慈，我若遂不起，恐必不能相容。
以是属汝，勿忘我言。
及帝晚年，诸子并弱，而太子不令，朝臣内外，皆属意于攸。
中书监荀勖、侍中冯紞皆谄谀自进，攸素疾之。
translation: 
The eldest son presides over morality, I ventured to tell the gatekeeper.
The world thinks that the proverbs are well written.
In the second year of Xianning, he replaced Mai as Sikong, but his positions of Shizhong and Taifu remained the same.
At first, Sima You was especially favored by Emperor Wen. Every time he saw Sima You, he patted the bed and called him by his nickname, saying "This is the seat of Taofu". There were many times when he was almost made the prince.
When the emperor was ill, he was worried that Sima You would be uneasy and cried as Emperor Wu recounted the story of King Huainan and King Chensi of Wei in the Han Dynasty.
Before he died, he took Sima You's hand and entrusted him to Emperor Wu.
The Queen Mother was ill before, and after she recovered, the Emperor and Sima You held wine glasses to celebrate her birthday. Sima You shed tears in front of the Queen Mother because of her previous critical illness, and the Emperor felt ashamed.
Sima You once served the emperor when he was ill. He always had a sad face, and people at that time praised him for it.
When the Queen Mother was dying, she also shed tears and said to the emperor: Taofu is impatient, and you are unkind as an elder brother. If I become ill and cannot bear it, I am afraid you will not be able to get along.
Therefore, I ask you not to forget my words.
In the emperor's later years, his sons were all cowardly and the prince was unworthy. People inside and outside the court wanted to appoint Sima You.
Xun Xu, the eunuch of the Central Secretary, and Feng Shou, the attendant, both flattered and worked for themselves, but Sima You had always hated them.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
勖等以朝望在攸，恐其为嗣，祸必及己，乃从容言于帝曰： 陛下万岁之后，太子不得立也。
帝曰： 何故？
勖曰： 百僚内外皆归心于齐王，太子焉得立乎！
陛下试诏齐王之国，必举朝以为不可，则臣言有征矣。
紞又言曰： 陛下遣诸侯之国，成五等之制者，宜先从亲始。
亲莫若齐王。
帝既信勖言，又纳紞说，太康三年乃下诏曰： 古者九命作伯，或入毗朝政，或出御方岳。
周之吕望，五侯九伯，实得征之，侍中、司空、齐王攸，明德清暢，忠允笃诚。
以母弟之亲，受台辅之任，佐命立勋，劬劳王室，宜登显位，以称具瞻。
其以为大司马、都督青州诸军事，侍中如故，假节，将本营千人，亲骑帐下司马大车皆如旧，增鼓吹一部，官骑满二十人，置骑司马五人。
余主者详案旧制施行。
攸不悦，主簿丁颐曰： 昔太公封齐，犹表东海；桓公九合，以长五伯。
况殿下诞德钦明，恢弼大籓，穆然东轸，莫不得所。
何必绛阙，乃弘帝载！
攸曰： 吾无匡时之用，卿言何多。
translation: 
Because the court's expectations were on Sima You, Xun Xu and others were afraid that his successor would bring disaster to them, so they calmly said to the emperor: "Long live your majesty, the prince cannot be established as emperor."
The emperor said: Why?
Xun Xu said: All the officials inside and outside are devoted to King Qi, how can the prince succeed to the throne?
Your Majesty tried to issue orders to conquer the country, but the Manchu people must not agree. Then my words will be proved.
Feng Shou also said: Your Majesty sends princes to feudal countries to complete the system of five-level titles, which should start with relatives.
There is no closer relative than the King of Qi.
After the emperor believed Xun Xu's words, he also accepted Feng Shou's opinion. In the third year of Taikang, he wrote in Shao Shu: In ancient times, officials and nobles were Zuobo with nine lives, who either entered the court to assist in government affairs, or went out of the capital to rule the four directions.
Lu Wang of the Zhou Dynasty could conquer all the five princes and nine uncles. Shi Zhong, Sikong, and Qi Wang Sima You are peaceful and prosperous in virtue, loyal and fair.
As the younger brother of the same mother, he shouldered the important responsibilities of the three princes, assisted Tianming in establishing meritorious deeds, and worked hard for the royal family, so he should be promoted to a prominent official position.
to meet everyone's expectations. He was appointed as Grand Sima and Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Qingzhou. His position as a servant remained unchanged. On holidays, he commanded thousands of soldiers in his camp. His personal cavalry and chariots remained the same. He also added an advocating department, twenty official cavalrymen, and five cavalrymen.
The rest will be carried out by the person in charge according to the old system.
Sima You was not happy, and the chief secretary Ding Yi said: In the past, the Grand Duke was granted the title of Qi, and he was still prominent in Shuhai; Duke Huan of Qi combined nine princes, and he was the strongest among the five hegemons.
What's more, His Highness has great virtues and respects the saints. He assists the great feudal states and purges them eastward, so that everyone can find his own place.
Why can we only expand our empire by being in the imperial court?
Sima You said: I don't have the ability to correct current affairs, why do you have so many words?


Chunk 25: 
original: 
明年，策攸曰： 於戏！
惟命不于常，天既迁有魏之祚。
我有晋既受顺天明命，光建群后，越造王国于东土，锡兹青社，用籓翼我邦家。
茂哉无怠，以永保宗庙。
又诏下太常，议崇锡之物，以济南郡益齐国。
又以攸子寔为北海王。
于是备物典策，设轩悬之乐、六佾之舞，黄钺朝车乘舆之副从焉。
攸知勖、紞构己，愤怨发疾，乞守先后陵，不许。
帝遣御医诊视，诸医希旨，皆言无疾。
疾转笃，犹催上道。
攸自强入辞，素持容仪，疾虽困，尚自整厉，举止如常，帝益疑无疾。
辞出信宿，欧血而薨，时年三十六。
帝哭之恸，冯紞侍侧曰： 齐王名过其实，而天下归之。
今自薨陨，社稷之福也，陛下何哀之过！
帝收泪而止。
诏丧礼依安平王孚故事，庙设轩悬之乐，配飨太庙。
translation: 
The next year, he wrote a letter to Sima You: Ah!
The destiny of heaven is not always there, and heaven has already moved Wei's imperial empire.
We, the Jin Dynasty, have accepted and obeyed the orders of God, honored the kings, established kingdoms in the east, and granted them the land in the east to defend and assist our country.
Never neglect your beauty, always protect the ancestral temple.
He also issued an edict to Taichang, discussing how to respect and reward the items and use Jinan County to benefit the Qi State.
He also appointed Sima You's son Sima Ku as King of Beihai.
So he prepared the rituals, set up a high-pitched band, and a six-hundred-strong music and dance procession, and the yellow iron Chariot chariot and the deputy chariot followed.
When Sima You knew that Xun Xu and Feng Shou had framed him, he became angry and resentful and fell ill. He begged to stay at the successive tombs, but was not allowed to do so.
The emperor sent imperial doctors to diagnose and treat him. Those doctors responded to the emperor's wishes and said he was fine.
When his illness became serious, he was still urged to go on the road.
Sima You reluctantly entered the court to bid farewell. He always maintained his appearance and appearance. Although he was seriously ill, he kept himself tidy and behaved as usual. The emperor even doubted that he was not sick.
After traveling and staying for two nights, he vomited blood and died. He was thirty-six years old at the time.
The emperor cried bitterly, and Feng You stood by and said: "King Qi's reputation exceeds his reality, and the hearts of the world are towards him."
Now that your death is a blessing to the country, why should Your Majesty be overly sad!
The emperor no longer shed tears and cried.
An imperial edict was issued to follow the precedent set by Anping King Sima Fu for funeral ceremonies, with a Xuanxuan band set up around the temple and sacrifices to be held at the Imperial Ancestral Temple.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
子冏立，别有传。
攸以礼自拘，鲜有过事。
就人借书，必手刊其谬，然后反之。
加以至性过人，有触其讳者，辄泫然流涕。
虽武帝亦敬惮之，每引之同处，必择言而后发。
三子：蕤、赞、寔。
蕤字景回，出继辽东王定国。
太康初，徙封东莱王。
元康中，历步兵、屯骑校尉。
蕤性强暴，使酒，数陵侮弟冏，冏以兄故容之。
冏起义兵，赵王伦收蕤及弟北海王寔系廷尉，当诛。
伦太子中庶子祖纳上疏谏曰： 罪不相反，恶止其身，此先哲之弘谟，百王之达制也。
是故鲧既殛死，禹乃嗣兴；二叔诛放，而邢卫无责。
逮乎战国，及至秦汉，明恕之道寝，猜嫌之情用，乃立质任以御众，设从罪以发奸，其所由来，盖三代之弊法耳。
蕤、寔，献王之子，明德之胤，宜蒙特宥，以全穆亲之典。
会孙秀死，蕤等悉得免。
translation: 
His son Sima Tong succeeded to the throne, and there is another biography.
Sima You restrained himself with etiquette and rarely made any mistakes.
When you borrow a book from someone else, you must correct the errors in the book with your own hands before returning the book.
In addition, his kind-hearted temperament is beyond ordinary people. If anything violates his taboo, he will burst into tears.
Even Emperor Wu was in awe of him. Whenever he was asked to be with him, he must think of his words carefully before speaking.
Three sons: Sima Rui, Sima Zan, and Sima Shi.
Sima Rui, whose courtesy name was Jinghui, was adopted by King Dingguo of Liaodong.
In the early years of Taikang, he was renamed King of Donglai.
During the Yuankang period, he successively served as infantry and garrison captain.
Sima Rui had a violent personality, drank and was willful, and repeatedly bullied and insulted his younger brother Sima Jian. Dan Modan tolerated him because he was his elder brother.
Sima Tong mobilized rebels, and Sima Lun captured Sima Rui and his younger brother Sima Fu, King of Beihai, and handed them over to the imperial officer for execution.
Sima Jian's concubine, Dan Youshangshu, advised: "The crime does not involve others, and the evil is limited to himself. This is the grand strategy of the ancient philosophers and the system adopted by emperors for centuries."
Therefore, Gun was killed, and Yu's successors prospered; Da Zhao was killed, Ji Zhao was exiled, and the barbarians were not responsible.
The path of enlightenment and forgiveness ceases, suspicion and suspicion prevail, so hostages are used to control others, and liaisons are established to detect evildoers. The source of these methods is probably three generations of harmful laws.
Sima Rui and Sima Shi are the sons of King Xian. They are descendants of virtuous people and should receive special leniency to fulfill the code of harmony between relatives.
When Sun Xiu died, Sima Rui and others were spared.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
冏拥众入洛，蕤于路迎之。
冏不即见，须符付前顿。
蕤恚曰： 吾坐尔殆死，曾无友于之情！
及冏辅政，诏以蕤为散骑常侍，加大将军，领后军、侍中、特进，增邑满二万户。
又从冏求开府，冏曰： 武帝子吴、豫章尚未开府，宜且须后。
蕤以是益怨，密表冏专权，与左卫将军王舆谋共废冏。
事觉，免为庶人。
寻诏曰： 大司马以经识明断，高谋远略，猥率同盟，安复社稷。
自书契所载，周召之美未足比勋，故授公上宰。
东莱王蕤潜怀怨妒，包藏祸心，与王舆密谋，图欲谮害。
收舆之日，蕤与青衣共载，微服奔走，经宿乃还。
奸凶赫然，妖惑外内。
translation: 
Sima Rui led his troops to greet him, and Sima Rui met him by the roadside.
Sima Jiong did not see him immediately. He wanted to wait for the troops to settle down before delivering the military symbols.
Sima Rui said resentfully: I almost died because of your involvement, why don't I have any feelings of family and friends?
When Sima Jiong assisted the government, he issued an edict to appoint Sima Rui as the regular servant of the scattered cavalry, and as a general, as well as the rear army, servant, and special advance. He added 20,000 households in the fiefdom.
Sima Rui asked Sima Tong to open a government office again. Si Wudan said: Genduo's sons, King Cheng and Liao Tonggong, have not yet opened a government office. They should wait until later.
Sima Rui became even more resentful because of this, and secretly stated that Sima Tong was in power, and together with Zuowei General, Gong Gong and Yu planned to abolish Dan District Dan.
The matter was exposed and he was exempted from being a commoner.
Soon Xia Shao said: Da Sima has broad knowledge and clear judgment, and has quick strategies. He leads the alliance to stabilize and restore the country.
Since the beginning of written records, Dan Gong and Chou Gong were not as wise as his merits, so they were awarded the position of prime minister.
Sima Rui, the king of Shulai, was secretly jealous and harbored evil intentions. He conspired with Wang Yu and wanted to frame him with false accusations.
On the day when Wang Yu was arrested, Si Wugan and his servants were in the same car, wearing casual clothes, and traveled for Wang Yu and stayed overnight before returning home.
The treachery and danger are obvious, confusing both inside and outside.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
又前表冏所言深重，虽管蔡失道，牙庆乱宗，不复过也。
《春秋》之典，大义灭亲，其徙蕤上庸。
后封微阳侯。
永宁初，上庸内史陈锺承冏旨害蕤。
死，诏诛锺，复蕤封，改葬以王礼。
赞字景期，继广汉殇王广德后。
年六岁，太康元年薨，谥冲王。
寔字景深，初为长乐亭侯。
攸以赞薨，又以寔继广汉殇王后，改封北海王。
永宁初为平东将军、假节，加散骑常侍，代齐王冏镇许昌。
寻进安南将军，都督豫州军事，增邑满二万户。
未发，留为侍中、上军将军，给千兵百骑。
城阳哀王兆，字千秋，年十岁而夭。
武帝践阼，诏曰： 亡弟千秋，少聪慧，有夙成之质，不幸早亡，先帝先后特所哀愍。
translation: 
In addition, Sima Rui's previous impeachment speech against Sima Gang was profound. Even if Guan Cai betrayed morality and Ya Qing caused chaos in the clan, it could not surpass Sima Rui's words.
According to the "Spring and Autumn Annals", Sima Rui was moved to Shangyong.
Later, Sima Rui was granted the title of Marquis of Weiyang.
In the early years of Yongning, Chen Zhong, the internal history of Shangyong, killed Sima Rui on Sima Tong's order.
After Sima Tong died, he issued an edict to kill Chen Zhong, restored Sima Rui's fiefdom, and reburied him according to royal rites.
Sima Zan, named Jingqi, was adopted by the descendants of Guangde, the martyred king of Guanghan.
He died when he was six years old. It was the first year of Taikang, and his nickname was King Chong.
Sima Shi, whose courtesy name is Jingshen, was originally the Marquis of Changle Pavilion.
Because Sima Zan died, Sima You asked Sima Sai to adopt him as his heir to King Guangmo Shang, and he was renamed King of Beihai.
In the early years of Yongning, he was appointed as General Pingshu and Jiejie, and as a regular servant of Sanqi, guarding Xuchang in place of King Sima Jian of Qi.
Soon after he was promoted to General Annan and Commander-in-Chief of Yuzhou Military Affairs, he added 20,000 additional fiefs.
Before setting off, he was left as a servant and general of the army, and was given a thousand soldiers and hundreds of horses.
Sima Zhao, the Ai Wang of Chengyang, died at the age of ten.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and wrote to Shao: My dead brother Qianqiu was young and intelligent, with a precocious temperament. Unfortunately, the late emperor passed away early, and the late emperor was particularly sad.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
先后欲绍立其后，而竟未遂，每追遗意，情怀感伤。
其以皇子景度为千秋后，虽非典礼，亦近世之所行，且以述先后本旨也。
于是追加兆封谥。
景度以泰始六年薨，复以第五子宪继哀王后。
薨，复以第六子祗为东海王，继哀王后。
薨，咸宁初又封第十三子遐为清河王，以继兆后。
辽东悼惠王定国，年三岁薨。
咸宁初追加封谥，齐王攸以长子蕤为嗣。
蕤薨，子遵嗣。
广汉殇王广德，年二岁薨。
咸宁初追加封谥，齐王攸以第五子赞绍封。
薨，攸更以第二子寔嗣广德。乐安平王鉴，字大明，初封临泗亭侯。
武帝践阼，封乐安王。
帝为鉴及燕王机高选师友，下诏曰： 乐安王鉴、燕王机并以长大，宜得辅导师友，取明经儒学，有行义节俭，使足严惮。
昔韩起与田苏游而好善，宜必得其人。
泰始中，拜越骑校尉。
咸宁初，以齐之梁邹益封，因之国，服侍中之服。
元康初，征为散骑常侍、上军大将军，领射声校尉。
寻迁使持节、都督豫州军事、安南将军，代清河王遐镇许昌，以疾不行。
七年薨，子殇王籍立。
薨，无子，齐王冏以子冰绍鉴后。
以济阴万一千二百一十九户改为广阳国，立冰为广阳王。
冏败，废。
乐平王延祚，字大思，少有笃疾，不任封爵。
太康初，诏曰： 弟祚早孤无识，情所哀愍。
translation: 
He wanted to continue his descendants one after another, but in the end he failed. Every time he thinks about his wish, he feels sad.
Although it does not conform to the rules and regulations, it is also common in modern times to establish the prince Jingdu as the descendant of Qianqiu. Moreover, it is to follow the original intention of succession.
So Sima Zhao was granted the title of Mi.
Jingdu died in the sixth year of Taishi, and his fifth son Sima Xian succeeded him.
After his death, his sixth son Sima Zhi was made King of East China Sea and the descendant of King Ai.
After his death, in the early years of Xianning, he named his thirteenth son Sima Ya the King of Qinghe and became the descendant of Sima Zhao.
King Hui of Liaodong Dingguo died at the age of three.
In the early years of Xianning, the title of Mi was added, and King Sima You of Qi made his eldest son Sima Rui the heir.
Sima Rui passed away and was succeeded by his son Sima Zun.
Guangde, the war king of Guanghan, died when he was two years old.
In the early years of Xianning, the title of Mi was added, and King Sima You of Qi let his fifth son Sima Zan inherit the title.
After his death, he gave birth to his second son as direct heir. Sima Jian, King of Ping in Le'an, was named Ming Dynasty and was initially named Linsi Tinghou.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and named him King Le'an.
The emperor carefully selected teachers and friends for Sima Jian and King Yan Sima Ji, and issued an edict saying: Sima Jian, King of Le'an, and Sima Ji, King of Yan, have grown up. They should have teachers and friends to guide them. They should choose people who are proficient in classic Confucianism and have good conduct, thrift and frugality, so that they can respect them.
In the past, Han Qi had a good relationship with Tian Su and was good at doing good deeds. He should definitely get a competent person.
During the Taishi period, the official worshiped the Yue Cavalry School Lieutenant.
In the early years of Xianning, Liang Zou of Qi State was used to expand the fiefdom, so he went to the feudal state and wore the clothes of a servant.
In the early years of Yuankang, he was recruited as a regular servant of Sanqi, a general of the upper army, and a captain of Shesheng.
Soon he was appointed as envoy Chijie, military governor of Yuzhou, and general Annan. He replaced Sima Ya, the king of Qinghe, to guard Xuchang. However, he could not make the trip due to illness.
He died in the seventh year and was succeeded by his son Sima Ji, the Shang King.
He died without a son, so King Sima Jian of Qi made his son Sima Bing the descendant of Sima Jian.
The 11,219 households in Jiyin were changed to Guangyang Kingdom, and Sima Bing was made King of Guangyang.
Sima Jian failed and King Guangyang was deposed.
King Yanzuo of Leping was named Dasi. He was seriously ill when he was young and was not qualified for the title of nobility.
In the early years of Taikang, the edict said: My younger brother Sima Yanzuo lost his father in his early years and was still young and ignorant, which makes people sad and sympathetic.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
幼得笃疾，日冀其差，今遂废痼，无复后望，意甚伤之。
其封为乐平王，使有名号，以慰吾心。
寻薨，无子。
史臣曰：平原性理不恆，世莫之测。
及其处乱离之际，属交争之秋，而能远害全身，享兹介福，其愚不可及已！
琅邪武功既暢，饰之以温恭，扶风文教克宣，加之以孝行，抑宗室之可称者也。
齐王以两献之亲，弘二南之化，道光雅俗，望重台衡，百辟具瞻，万方属意。
既而地疑致逼，文雅见疵，紞勖陈蔓草之邪谋，武皇深翼子之滞爱。
遂乃褫龙章于衮职，徙侯服于下籓，未及戒涂，终于愤恚，惜哉！
translation: 
I was seriously ill when I was a child, and I looked forward to getting better every day. Now I am disabled, with no hope of recovery, and I feel very sad.
Call him King Leping to give him a name to comfort my heart.
He died soon without any sons.
Shi Chen said: King Pingyuan is emotionally and rationally unstable, and no one in the world can guess him.
It is said that he was in an era of turmoil and separation, and lived in a period of war and struggle, but he was able to stay away from disasters, preserve himself, and enjoy great blessings. His ignorance was unmatched by others!
King Langxie is good at martial arts, gentle and respectful, King Fufeng is outstanding in literary talent and education, and is filial, so he may be a commendable person in the clan.
As a descendant of Emperor Wen and Emperor Jing, the King of Qi carried forward the teachings of "Zhou Nan" and "Zhao Nan". His morality enlightened the refined and popular, and his reputation was great among the prime ministers and assistants.
Later, due to his high status, he was persecuted by doubts, and his elegant literary talent was criticized for his faults. Feng Shou and Xun Xu came up with treacherous strategies like creeping grass. Emperor Wu deeply maintained his incomprehensible love for his son.
So he deprived the King of Qi of his power in the court and moved to a feudal country thousands of miles away. He died of resentment before he could prepare for the journey. What a pity!


Chunk 31: 
original: 
若使天假之年而除其害，奉缀衣之命，膺负图之托，光辅嗣君，允厘邦政，求诸冥兆，或废兴之有期，徵之人事，庶胜残之可及，何八王之敢力争，五胡之能竞逐哉！
《诗》云 人之云亡，邦国殄瘁， 攸实有之； 谗人罔极，交乱四国， 其荀冯之谓也。
赞曰：文宣孙子，或贤或鄙。
扶风遗爱，琅邪克己。
澹谄凶魁，肜参衅始。
干虽静退，性乖恆理。
彼美齐献，卓尔不群。
自家刑国，纬武经文。
木摧于秀，兰烧以薰。
translation: 
If God granted him a long life and got rid of his political enemies, and he was ordered to be a trusted minister, accept the great trust of governing the country, and assist the succeeding emperor, and he was indeed able to manage the country's politics, then judging from the signs in the underworld, maybe there will be a period of decline and prosperity, and judging from the events in the world, the possible victory or defeat can be deduced. How can the eight kings dare to fight, how can the five barbarians compete!
"Poetry" says that without virtuous people, a country will decline. Sima You can really confirm what the Japanese say; traitorous ministers can never stop badmouthing people and disturb all directions. He is probably talking about people like Xun Xu and Feng Tongtong.
Praising: Some of the descendants of Emperor Wen and Emperor Xuan are wise and some are despicable.
King Fufeng left behind his love, and King Langxie restrained himself.
Sima Dan was the most flattering and cruel, and Sima Shu participated in public revenge.
Although Sima Qian made concessions, his temperament and rationality were unstable.
The beautiful King Qi Xian is outstanding.
Governing the country by oneself, being both civil and military.
Trees were cut down for their height and orchids were burned for their incense.


