Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 3, 3, 7, 14, 3, 20, 3, 26, 29]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
王莽字巨君，孝元皇后之弟子也。
元后父及兄弟皆以元、成世封侯，居位辅政，家凡九侯、五大司马，语在《元后传》。
唯莽父曼蚤死，不侯。
莽群兄弟皆将军五侯子，乘时侈靡，以舆马声色佚游相高，莽独孤贫，因折节为恭俭。
受《礼经》，师事沛郡陈参，勤身博学，被服如儒生。
事母及寡嫂，养孤兄子，行甚敕备。
又外交英俊，内事诸父，曲有礼意。
阳朔中，世父大将军凤病，莽侍疾，亲尝药，乱首垢面，不解衣带连月。
凤且死，以托太后及帝，拜为黄门郎，迁射声校尉。
久之，叔父成都侯商上书，愿分户邑以封莽，及长乐少府戴崇、侍中金涉、胡骑校尉箕闳、上谷都尉阳并、中郎陈汤，皆当世名士，咸为莽言，上由是贤莽。
永始元年，封莽为新都侯，国南阳新野之都乡，千五百户。
迁骑都尉、光禄大夫、侍中。宿卫谨敕，爵位益尊，节操愈谦。
散舆马衣裘，振施宾客，家无所余。
收赡名士，交结将相、卿、大夫甚众。
故在位更推荐之，游者为之谈说，虚誉隆洽，倾其诸父矣。
敢为激发之行，处之不惭恧。
莽兄永为诸曹，蚤死，有子光，莽使学博士门下。
莽休沐出，振车骑，奉羊酒，劳遗其师，恩施下竟同学。
诸生纵观，长老叹息。
光年小于莽子宇，莽使同日内妇，宾客满堂。
须臾，一人言太夫人苦某痛，当饮某药，比客罢者数起焉。
translation: 
Wang Mang, also known as Jujun, is the nephew of Queen Xiaoyuan.
Empress Yuan's father and brothers all became marquises during the reigns of Emperor Yuan and Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty, held important positions, and assisted in government affairs. There were nine people in the family who were granted the title of marquis and five chief ministers. These words are recorded in the "Biography of the Empress of the Yuan Dynasty".
Only Wang Mang's father, Wang Man, died earlier and was not granted a title.
Wang Mang's uncles and brothers were all the sons of generals and marquises. They took advantage of the time when their fathers were powerful and lived a luxurious and lavish life. They showed off and compared each other with tall carriages and horses, talented singers and concubines, beautiful concubines, and novel games. Wang Mang was the only one who was lonely and poor, so he treated others with humility and lived a simple life.
He worshiped Chen Shen, a native of Pei County, as his teacher, studied "Etiquette" and "Zhou Rites", worked diligently and extensively, and dressed like an ordinary scholar.
He served his mother and widowed sister-in-law, raised his fatherless nephew, and behaved with great caution.
In addition, he made friends with outstanding talents outside and served his uncles and uncles in the family with tact, thoughtfulness and courtesy.
During the Yangshuo period, his uncle, the general Wang Feng, fell ill. Wang Mang served him and took the medicine himself. He did not comb his hair or wash his face, resulting in unkempt appearance. He went to bed without taking off his clothes for several months.
When Wang Feng was dying, she entrusted Wang Mang to the Queen Mother and Emperor Cheng. He was appointed Huang Menlang and was later promoted to Shesheng Xiaowei.
After a long time, his uncle Chengdu Marquis Wang Shang wrote to the emperor, expressing his willingness to allocate his own households to Wang Mang. Others, such as Changle Shaofu Dai Chong, Shi Zhong Jin She, Hu Qi Xiao Lieutenant Ji Hong, Shanggu Du Wei Yang Bing and Zhonglang Chen Tang, were all very famous people at the time. They all spoke for Wang Mang. From then on, the emperor considered Wang Mang to be a wise man.
In the first year of Yongshi, Emperor Cheng granted Wang Mang the title of Marquis of Xindu. The Marquis was built in the capital of Xinye County, Nanyang County, with 1,500 households.
Later he was promoted to the rank of Cavalry Captain and Guanglu Doctor, and he served as a guard in the palace. He was cautious and considerate. As his official position became higher and higher, his attitude became more and more humble.
He distributed carriages, horses, and light warm clothing, and gave alms to the guests, so that there was no extra clothing in the house.
He accepted and supported famous people and made friends with many generals, prime ministers, and officials.
Therefore, people in important positions recommended him more, and celebrities in the society advocated for him. His reputation spread throughout the government and the public, surpassing his uncles.
He dares to behave in a pretentious manner without feeling ashamed.
Wang Mang's brother Wang Yong, who had served in various Cao Cao positions, had died long ago. He had a son named Wang Guang, and Wang Mang asked him to study under a doctor.
When Wang Mang was on vacation, he drove his chariot and horses, brought sheep and wine, and went to comfort his teacher. He even gave gifts to his classmates.
It attracted many scholars to watch and the old people admired it.
Wang Guang was younger than Wang Mang's son Wang Yu, so Wang Mang asked them to get married on the same day. The hall was filled with congratulatory guests.
After a while, one person said that his mother had some kind of illness and what medicine she should take. By the time the guests left, he had already gotten up several times.
summary:
Wang Mang, also known as Jujun, was the nephew of Empress Xiaoyuan. During the reigns of Emperors Yuan and Cheng of the Han Dynasty, Empress Yuan's father and brothers all became marquises, held important positions, and assisted in government affairs. Nine family members were granted the title of marquis, and five served as chief ministers. Only Wang Mang's father, Wang Man, died early and was not granted a title. Wang Mang's uncles and brothers, as sons of generals and marquises, lived luxurious lives, but Wang Mang, being lonely and poor, treated others with humility and lived simply. He studied "Etiquette" and "Zhou Rites" under Chen Shen, dressed like an ordinary scholar, served his mother and widowed sister-in-law, raised his fatherless nephew, and behaved with caution. He made friends with outstanding talents and served his uncles with tact and courtesy. During the Yangshuo period, his uncle Wang Feng fell ill, and Wang Mang served him diligently, not combing his hair or washing his face for months. When Wang Feng was dying, he entrusted Wang Mang to the Queen Mother and Emperor Cheng, leading to Wang Mang's appointment as Huang Menlang and later promotion to Shesheng Xiaowei. Over time, his uncle Chengdu Marquis Wang Shang and other notable figures spoke highly of Wang Mang, leading Emperor Cheng to consider him a wise man. In the first year of Yongshi, Wang Mang was granted the title of Marquis of Xindu with 1,500 households. He was later promoted to Cavalry Captain and Guanglu Doctor, serving as a guard in the palace. As his official position rose, his attitude became more humble. He distributed his wealth to guests, leaving no extra clothing in his house, and supported famous people, making friends with many officials. His reputation spread throughout the government and public, surpassing his uncles. Wang Mang's brother Wang Yong had died, leaving a son named Wang Guang, whom Wang Mang had study under a doctor. During his vacations, Wang Mang visited his teacher with gifts and gave presents to classmates, attracting admiration from scholars and elders. Wang Guang married on the same day as Wang Mang's son Wang Yu, with a hall full of congratulatory guests. Wang Mang once secretly bought a maidservant, claiming he bought her for General Zhu Ziyuan because she could bear many sons, and gave her away that day, hiding his true feelings to pursue fame.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
尝私买侍婢，昆弟或颇闻知，莽因曰： 后将军朱子元无子，莽闻此儿种宜子，为买之。
即日以婢奉子元。
其匿情求名如此。
是时，太后姊子淳于长以材能为九卿，先进在莽右。
莽阴求其罪过，因大司马曲阳侯根白之，长伏诛，莽以获忠直，语在《长传》。
根因乞骸骨，荐莽自代，上遂擢为大司马。
是岁，绥和元年也，年三十八矣。
莽既拔出同列，继四父而辅政，欲令名誉过前人，遂克已不倦，聘诸贤良以为掾史，赏赐邑钱悉以享士，愈为俭约。
母病，公卿列侯遣夫人问疾，莽妻迎之，衣不曳地，布蔽膝。
见之者以为僮使，问知其夫人，皆惊。
辅政岁余，成帝崩，哀帝即位，尊皇太后为太皇太后。
太后诏莽就第，避帝外家。
莽上疏乞骸骨，哀帝遣尚书令诏莽曰： 先帝委政于君而弃群臣，朕得奉宗庙，诚嘉与君同心合意。
今君移病求退，以著朕之不能奉顺先帝之意，朕甚悲伤焉。
已诏尚书待君奏事。
又遣丞相孔光、大司空何武、左将军师丹、卫尉傅喜白太后曰： 皇帝闻太后诏，甚悲。
大司马即不起，皇帝即不敢听政。
太后复令莽视事。
时哀帝祖母定陶傅太后、母丁姬在，高昌侯董宏上书言： 《春秋》之义，母以子贵，丁姬宜上尊号。
莽与师丹共劾宏误朝不道，语在《丹传》。
后日，未央宫置酒，内者令为傅太后张幄坐于太皇太后坐旁。
translation: 
He once secretly bought a maidservant, and word gradually spread among his brothers. Wang Mang said: "The later general Zhu Ziyuan has no sons. I heard that this woman can have many sons, so I bought her for him."
The maidservant was given to Zhu Ziyuan that day.
Wang Mang went to such an extent to hide his true feelings and pursue fame.
At this time, Chun Yuchang, the son of the Queen Mother's sister, was ranked among the nine ministers because of his talents. He was an official before Wang Mang and his reputation and status were above Wang Mang.
Wang Mang secretly collected his crimes, and reported his situation to Emperor Cheng through the Grand Sima Quyanghou Wanggen. Chunyu Chang was killed by the law, and Wang Mang gained a reputation for loyalty and integrity. These words are recorded in the "Chun Yu Chang Biography".
Wang Gen therefore requested to retire and recommended Wang Mang to replace him. The emperor then promoted Wang Mang to be the Grand Sima.
This year is the first year of Suihe, and Wang Mang is thirty-eight years old.
Since Wang Mang had surpassed his peers and assisted the emperor after his four uncles, he planned to make his reputation better than that of his predecessors, so he set strict demands on himself and worked tirelessly. He hired many virtuous people to serve as subordinate officials, and all the rewards from the emperor and the income from fiefdoms were used to entertain the scholars. He himself became more frugal and frugal.
His mother was ill, and the princes, ministers and princes sent their wives to inquire about her condition. Wang Mang's wife went out to greet her, but she did not have a floor-length gown, and her sarong only reached her knees.
Those who saw her thought she was a slave, but when they asked, they found out that she was Wang Mang's wife, and they were all surprised.
Wang Mang assisted the government for more than a year. Emperor Mo Cheng died and Emperor Ai of the Han Dynasty succeeded to the throne. He honored the Empress Dowager as the Empress Dowager.
The Queen Mother ordered Wang Mang to resign and go home, giving up power to Emperor Ai's maternal family.
Wang Mang then submitted a memorial and asked to resign. Emperor Ai sent his minister Shao to order Wang Mang to say: The late emperor entrusted the government to you and abandoned his subordinates. I can take over the country and I really hope to be of the same mind as you.
Now that you have written a letter saying that you are ill and requesting resignation, it seems that I cannot obey the late emperor's will. I am very sad about this.
The minister has been ordered to wait for you to come to court to report.
He also sent Prime Minister Kong Guang, Grand Sikong Hewu, General Zuo Shidan, and Weiwei Fu happy to report to the Queen Mother: The emperor was very sad when he heard the Queen Mother's edict.
If Da Sima did not become an official, the emperor would not dare to handle government affairs.
The Queen Mother also appointed Wang Mang as director.
At this time, Emperor Ai's grandmother, the Empress Dowager Dingtao, and her mother, Liao Ji, were still alive. Dong Hong, the Marquis of Gaochang, wrote a letter saying: According to the meaning of "Spring and Autumn", mothers are more valuable than their children, so Ding Ji should be given the honorific title.
Wang Mang and Shi Dan jointly impeached and exposed Dong Hong for misleading the court and violating principles. These words were recorded in "The Biography of Shi Dan".
Later, a banquet was held in Weiyang Palace, and the insider ordered a curtain to be set up for Empress Dowager Fu to sit next to the Empress Dowager.
summary:
Wang Mang secretly collected crimes of Chun Yuchang, the son of the Queen Mother's sister, and reported him to Emperor Cheng through Grand Sima Wanggen. Chunyu Chang was executed, and Wang Mang gained a reputation for loyalty. Wang Gen then recommended Wang Mang to replace him, and Emperor Cheng promoted Wang Mang to Grand Sima at age thirty-eight. Wang Mang set strict demands on himself, hired virtuous people as subordinates, and used his rewards and fiefdom income to entertain scholars, living frugally. His wife, when greeting guests, wore a sarong that only reached her knees, surprising those who mistook her for a slave. After Emperor Cheng died and Emperor Ai succeeded, the Queen Mother ordered Wang Mang to resign, but Emperor Ai refused his resignation and reappointed him. Wang Mang later clashed with Empress Dowager Fu, leading to his resignation again. He was rewarded with gold and chariots and returned to his palace. Many officials praised him, and the emperor treated him with favor, sending special envoys to serve him at home.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
太后拜莽为大司马，与议立嗣。
安阳侯王舜，莽之从弟，其人修饬，太后所信爱也，莽白以舜为车骑将军，使迎中山王奉成帝后，是为孝平皇帝。
帝年九岁，太后临朝称制，委政于莽。
莽白赵氏前害皇子，傅氏骄僣，遂废孝成赵皇后、孝哀傅皇后，皆令自杀，语在《外戚传》。
莽以大司徒孔光名儒，相三主，太后所敬，天下信之，于是盛尊事光，引光女婿甄邯为侍中奉车都尉。
诸哀帝外戚及大臣居位素所不说者，莽皆傅致其罪，为请奏，令邯持与光。
光素畏慎，不敢不上之，莽白太后，辄可其奏。
于是前将军何武、后将军公孙禄坐互相举免，丁、傅及董贤亲属皆免官爵，徙远方。
红阳侯立，太后亲弟，虽不居位，莽以诸父内敬惮之，畏立从容言太后，令已不得肆意，乃复令光奏立旧恶： 前知定陵侯淳于长犯大逆罪，多受其赂，为言误朝；后白以官婢杨寄私子为皇子，众言曰吕氏、少帝复出，纷纷为天下所疑，难以示来世，成襁褓之功。
请遣立就国。
太后不听。
莽曰： 今汉家衰，比世无嗣，太后独代幼主统政，诚可畏惧，力用公正先天下，尚恐不从，今以私恩逆大臣议如此，群下倾邪，乱从此起！
宜可且遣就国，安后复征召之。
太后不得已，遣立就国。
莽之所以胁持上下，皆此类也。
于是附顺者拔擢，忤恨者诛灭。
王舜、王邑为腹心，甄丰、甄邯主击断，平晏领机事，刘歆典文章，孙建为爪牙。
丰子寻、歆子棻、涿郡崔发、南阳陈崇皆以材能幸于莽。
莽色厉而言方，欲有所为，微见风采，党与承其指意而显奏之，莽稽首涕泣，固推让焉，上以惑太后，下用示信于众庶。
始，风益州令塞处蛮夷献白雉，元始元年正月，莽白太后下诏，以白雉荐宗庙。
群臣因奏言太后： 委任大司马莽定策定宗庙。
故大司马霍光有安宗庙之功，益封三万户，畴其爵邑，比萧相国。
莽宜如光故事。
太后问公卿曰： 诚以大司马有大功当著之邪？
translation: 
The Queen Mother appointed Wang Mang as Grand Sima and discussed with him the selection of a successor to the throne.
Wang Shun, the Marquis of Anyang, was Wang Mang's cousin. He was cautious and trusted by the Queen Mother. Wang Mang proposed that Wang Shun be the chariot general and asked him to greet the King of Zhongshan to succeed him as emperor, creating Emperor Xiaoping.
When Emperor Ping was just nine years old, the Queen Mother came to the court to act as an agent in government affairs and entrusted the government affairs to Wang Mang.
Tu Mang pointed out that the Tang family had killed the prince in the past, and the Fu family was proud and arrogant, so he deposed Empress Xiaocheng Tang and Empress Xiaoai Fu and ordered them to commit suicide. These words are recorded in "The Biography of the Wife".
Because the great Situ Kong Guang was a famous Confucian scholar, Wang Mang had assisted three emperors, namely Cheng Emperor, Ai Emperor and Heping Emperor. He was respected by the Empress Dowager and trusted by the people of the country, so he treated Kong Guang with great respect and recommended Kong Guang's son-in-law Zhen Han to serve as a servant and captain of the car.
For all the relatives of Emperor Ai and the ministers in important positions whom he disliked, Wang Mang wrote a memorial asking for instructions and asked Zhen Han to bring them to Jie Guang.
Kong Guang has always been fearful and cautious, and he dared not fail to report the matter. Wang Mang reported to the Queen Mother again, and the Queen Mother agreed to these memorials.
So the former general He Wu and the latter general Gongsun Lu were dismissed from their posts because they recommended each other to be appointed as Grand Sima. The relatives of Ding, Fu and Dong Xian were all removed from their official positions and titles and were exiled to distant places.
Wang Li, the Marquis of Hongyang, was the younger brother of the Queen Mother. Although he was not an official, Wang Mang respected him in his heart because he was his uncle. He was afraid that Wang Li would enlighten the Queen Mother when he was free so that he would not be able to do whatever he wanted. He also asked Kong Guang to report Wang Li's past crimes to the Queen Mother: Wang Li knew that Dingling Marquis Chunyu was a long-time criminal. After committing the crime of treason, he also accepted a large amount of bribes from him, interceded for him, and misled the court; later, he reported that the illegitimate son of the official slave Yang Ji was used as the prince. Everyone said that Empress Lu and the young emperor were resurrected. There were different opinions, making the world suspicious. This made it difficult to show future generations and complete the task of protecting the young master.
Please let Wang Li return to his feudal kingdom.
The Queen Mother did not follow his advice.
Wang Mang said: Now that the Han Dynasty is in decline and there are no heirs for several generations, it is really terrible for you, Queen Mother, to take charge of the government on your own instead of your young master. You try hard to set an example for the world with a fair attitude, but you may not obey me. If you don't listen to my opinion out of personal love, then the officials will have evil thoughts, and disaster will happen!
He should be sent back to the feudal country for the time being, and then transferred back after the country's affairs have stabilized a bit.
The Queen Mother had no choice but to let Wang Li return to his country.
These were all the methods Wang Mang used to coerce and blackmail the Queen Mother and her ministers.
In this way, those who relied on and obeyed him were promoted, and those who opposed and resented him were killed.
Wang Shun and Wang Yi became his confidants, Zhen Feng and Zhen Han were in charge of pickets, impeachments, and trials, Ping Yan was in charge of confidential military and political affairs, Liu Xin was in charge of rituals, music, and regulations, and Sun Jian became his right-hand assistant.
Zhen Feng's son Zhen Xun, Liu Xin's son Liu Cai, Cui Fa from Zhuojun, and Chen Chong from Nanyang were all favored by Wang Mang because of their talents.
Wang Mang looked stern and spoke seriously. If he wanted to do something, he only needed to give a slight hint with his expression and face, and the party members would clearly report his intention to the superiors. Wang Mang would kowtow and cry and resolutely refuse to give in. This was used to confuse the Queen Mother, and to show integrity to the common people.
At first, Wang Mang politely signaled to the Yizhou Order to let the barbarians outside the Great Wall donate white-feathered pheasants. In the first month of the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, Wang Mang reported to the Queen Mother and issued an edict to use white-feathered pheasants as offerings to the ancestral temple.
The ministers then reported to the Queen Mother: The Queen Mother appointed Grand Sima Wang Mang to make the decision to support the new emperor, thus bringing stability to the court.
The previous great Sima Huo Guang was credited with stabilizing the country and adding 30,000 households in the fiefdoms. It was also stipulated that after his death, his descendants would inherit the title and the number of fiefdoms would be equal to his, just like that of Xiao Xiangguo.
Wang Mang should be awarded the title according to Huo Guang's example.
The Queen Mother asked the princes and ministers: Is it really because Da Sima has made great contributions that he should be praised?
summary:
After three years in his feudal state, hundreds of officials petitioned for Wang Mang's recall. In the first year of Yuanshou, a solar eclipse occurred, and virtuous men praised Wang Mang's merits, leading the emperor to recall him. When Wang Mang returned to the capital, Emperor Ai died without a son, and the Queen Mother summoned Wang Mang to take control. Wang Mang reported that Da Sima Gao'an Hou Dong Xian was too young and not suitable, so his seal was confiscated, and Dong Xian committed suicide. The Queen Mother appointed Wang Mang as Grand Sima, and they selected the King of Zhongshan to succeed as Emperor Xiaoping. When Emperor Ping was nine, the Queen Mother acted as regent and entrusted government affairs to Wang Mang. Wang Mang deposed Empress Xiaocheng Tang and Empress Xiaoai Fu, ordering them to commit suicide. He treated Grand Situ Kong Guang with respect and used him to report on officials he disliked, leading to their dismissal or exile. Wang Mang also forced his uncle Wang Li to return to his feudal country, using coercion and blackmail to control the Queen Mother and her ministers. Wang Mang promoted those who obeyed him and killed those who opposed him. He used false humility to confuse the Queen Mother and the public. When the Yizhou Order offered white-feathered pheasants, Wang Mang reported it to the Queen Mother, and the ministers recommended he be granted the title of Anmo Gong with increased fiefdoms. Wang Mang refused multiple times, but the Queen Mother eventually granted him the title. He accepted the titles of Taifu and An Mogong but resigned from the increased fiefdom and hereditary rewards. He suggested rewarding other officials and implementing benevolent policies. After winning public favor, Wang Mang wanted to be dictatorial and hinted to officials to write memorials saying the Queen Mother should not interfere in trivial matters. The Queen Mother issued an edict allowing Wang Mang to evaluate and decide on official matters, giving him power equal to the emperor. Wang Mang refused the rewards, but the Queen Mother insisted. He eventually accepted the titles and rewards, including the prime minister's seal. Wang Mang proposed building a Mingtang, a national imperial college, and other structures, recruiting scholars from across the country. The ministers reported that Wang Mang's merits were evident, and the construction was completed quickly. The Queen Mother agreed to reward Wang Mang with nine kinds of utensils. In the fifth year of the Yuan Dynasty, many princes and officials petitioned for Wang Mang's rewards. Wang Mang wrote a letter declining, but the Queen Mother insisted. The ministers reported that Wang Mang's merits were like those of Yi Yin and the Duke of Zhou, and they requested the reward of nine tins. The Queen Mother approved, and Wang Mang received various honors and items, including a green apron, formal dress, a jade-inlaid saber, chariots, and military equipment. He was also given a red painted door and steps inside the eaves, with guards and officials appointed to assist him. A white stone with vermilion words reading "Announcement of Prince Mang of Anhan to be the emperor" was discovered. Wang Mang asked the princes to report this to the Queen Mother, who initially refused but eventually agreed to let Wang Mang act as regent. The ministers reported that Wang Mang should ascend the throne and exercise imperial power, following the example of the Duke of Zhou. The Queen Mother issued an edict allowing Wang Mang to serve as regent and act as the emperor. Wang Mang then sat on the throne, wore the emperor's clothes, and accepted the worship of the ministers. The next year, the name was changed to Jushe. In the first year of Jushe, Wang Mang worshiped the gods and held ceremonies. Liu Ying was made the crown prince, known as Ruzi. Wang Shun, Zhen Feng, and Zhen Han were appointed as officials. In April, Liu Chong, Marquis of Anzhong, attacked Wancheng but failed. Wang Mang pardoned those who surrendered. Liu Jia wrote a memorial praising Wang Mang and suggesting severe punishment for Liu Chong. Wang Mang was pleased and granted Liu Jia a fiefdom. The ministers reported that Wang Mang's power should be increased to conquer the world. The Queen Mother ordered Wang Mang to call himself the "fake emperor" when seeing her. In December, the ministers petitioned to increase Wang Mang's official offices and household staff. The memorial was approved.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
惟哀省察！
莽又令太后下诏曰： 盖闻母后之义，思不出乎门阈。
国不蒙佑，皇帝年在襁褓，未任亲政，战战兢兢，惧于宗庙之不安。
国家之大纲，微朕孰当统之？
是以孔子见南子，周公居摄，盖权时也。
勤身极思，忧劳未绥，故国奢则视之以俭，矫枉者过其正，而朕不身帅，将谓天下何！
夙夜梦想，五谷丰熟，百姓家给，比皇帝加元服，委政而授焉。
今诚未皇于轻靡而备味，庶几与百僚有成，其勖之哉！
每有水旱，莽辄素食，左右以白。
太后遣使者诏莽曰： 闻公菜食，忧民深矣。
今秋幸熟，公勤于职，以时食肉，爱身为国。
莽念中国已平，唯四夷未有异，乃遣使者赍黄金、币、帛，重赂匈奴单于，使上书言： 闻中国讥二名，故名囊知牙斯今更名知，慕从圣制。
又遣王昭君女须卜居次入待。
所以诳耀媚事太后，下至旁侧长御，方故万端。
莽既尊重，欲以女配帝为皇后，以固其权，奏言： 皇帝即位三年，长秋宫未建，液廷媵未充。
乃者，国家之难，本从亡嗣，配取不正。
请考论《五经》，定取礼，正十二女之义，以广继嗣。
博采二王后及周公、孔子世列侯在长安者適子女。
事下有司，上众女名，王氏女多在选中者。
莽恐其与已女争，即上言： 身亡德，子材下，不宜与众女并采。
太后以为至诚，乃下诏曰： 王氏女，朕之外家，其勿采。
translation: 
I hope you will be compassionate and considerate!
Wang Mang also asked the Queen Mother to write a letter to Shao, saying: I heard that the Queen Mother's rule is that ideological activities should not exceed the boundaries of the palace.
The country has not been blessed by God, and the emperor is still young and cannot govern himself. I am frightened and cautious, fearing that the country will not be peaceful.
Without me, who would be in charge of the country's supreme power?
Therefore, Confucius met Nanzi and Duke Zhou took charge of the government, which was based on the needs of the situation at that time.
I have exhausted my body, exhausted my mind, worried and toiled, and have no peace of mind. Therefore, when the world advocates luxury, I use frugal style to show the world that correcting deviations often requires more than the limit. If I don't take the lead personally, what will the people of the world do?
I dream about a good harvest day and night, so that every household of the common people can have enough food and clothing. When the emperor comes of age, I will hand over the government to him.
Now I really don’t have time to enjoy soft clothes and delicious food. I hope to achieve something with the officials, so I should encourage you!
Whenever there was a flood or drought, Wang Mang would only eat vegetables and his attendants would report the situation to the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother sent an envoy to Wang Mang and said: I heard that you only eat vegetables. You are too worried about the suffering of the people.
Fortunately, the harvest this year is abundant. As you are so diligent and dedicated, you should eat some meat on time. Please take good care of your body for the sake of the country.
Wang Mang considered that the Central Plains had been stabilized and that only the Yi tribes in the four directions had not changed much, so he sent an envoy with gold and property, generous gifts to the Xiongnu Chanyu, and asked him to write a letter saying: I heard that the Central Plains ridiculed double names. My original name was Nangzhi Yasi, but now I changed my name to Zhi to express my admiration and compliance with the system of the Central Plains.
Wang Zhaojun's daughter was also sent to serve the Queen Mother.
In order to deceive, confuse and flatter the Queen Mother, as well as the eunuchs and maids around her, Wang Mang's methods were so varied.
After Wang Mang became a powerful emperor, he wanted to give his daughter to Emperor Ping as a queen in order to consolidate his power, so he wrote to the emperor: "It has been three years since the emperor ascended the throne, but he has not yet established a queen, and he has not provided enough concubines."
In the past, the country's crises were caused by the lack of heirs and improper marriages.
Please examine and apply the theory of the Five Classics to formulate the principles of marriage etiquette and correct twelve daughters, in order to give birth to more heirs.
The descendants of the Shang and Zhou royal families and the descendants of the principal wives of the princes in Chang'an during the Zhou Gong and Confucius eras were widely selected and betrothed to their children.
This matter was handed over to the officials in charge and a list of many women was submitted. Many daughters of the Wang family were on the candidate list.
Wang Mang was afraid that they would compete with his own daughters, so he wrote a memorial saying: "I have no virtue myself, and my daughter's appearance is inferior. It is not suitable to be selected at the same time as other women."
The Queen Mother thought that he was sincere, so she wrote to Shao Shu: "The daughters of the Wang family are my natal family, so don't choose them."
summary:
Wang Mang used false reputations to please the Queen Mother, donating money and land to help the poor. He led ministers in reporting auspicious omens and asked the Queen Mother to conserve her energy. During floods or droughts, Wang Mang only ate vegetables, and the Queen Mother urged him to eat meat for his health. Wang Mang sent envoys to the Xiongnu Chanyu, who changed his name to comply with Chinese customs. Wang Mang also gave his daughter to Emperor Ping as queen to consolidate his power, despite initial refusal. The ministers insisted, and Wang Mang's daughter became queen. Wang Mang declined increased betrothal gifts and distributed them to poor families. Chen Chong, a Grand Situ Sizhi, wrote a memorial praising Wang Mang's virtues and merits, comparing him to the Duke of Zhou and recommending he be granted the title of prime minister. The Queen Mother showed the memorial to the ministers, and they discussed it.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
于是遣甄丰奉玺绶，即拜帝母卫姬为中山孝王后，赐帝舅卫宝、宝弟玄爵关内侯，皆留中山，不得至京师。
莽子宇，非莽隔绝卫氏，恐帝长大后见怨。
宇即私遣人与宝等通书，教令帝母上书求入。
语在《卫后传》。
莽不听。
宇与师吴章及妇兄吕宽议其故，章以为莽不可谏，而好鬼神，可为变怪以惊惧之，章因推类说令归政于卫氏。
宇即使宽夜持血酒莽第门，吏发觉之，莽执宇送狱，饮药死。
宇妻焉怀子，系狱，须产子已，杀之。
莽奏言： 宇为吕宽等所诖误，流言惑众，与管、蔡同罪，臣不敢隐，其诛。
甄邯等白太后下诏曰： 夫唐尧有丹朱，周文王有管、蔡，此皆上圣亡奈下愚子何，以其性不可移也。
公居周公之位，辅成王之主，而行管、蔡之诛，不以亲亲害尊尊，朕甚嘉之。
昔周公诛四国之后，大化乃成，至于刑错。
公其专意翼国，期于致平。
莽因是诛灭卫氏，穷治吕宽之狱，连引郡国豪桀素非议已者，内及敬武公主、梁王立、红阳侯立、平阿侯仁，使者迫守，皆自杀。
死者以百数，海内震焉。
大司马护军褒奏言： 安汉公遭子宇陷于管、蔡之辜，子受至重，为帝室故不敢顾私。
惟宇遭罪，喟然愤发作书八篇，以戒子孙。
宜班郡国，令学官以教授。
事下群公，请令天下吏能诵公戒者，以著官簿，比《孝经》。
四年春，郊祀高祖以配天，宗祀孝文皇帝以配上帝。
四月丁未，莽女立为皇后，大赦天下。
遣大司徒司直陈崇等八人分行天下，览观风俗。
translation: 
So Zhen Feng was sent to hold the seal and confer the title of Empress Xiao of Zhongshan on Emperor Ping's mother Wei Ji on the spot. He also granted Emperor Ping's uncle Wei Shi and Wei Bao's brother Wei Xuanguan the title of Neihou, so that they could stay in Zhongshan and not be allowed to come to Chang'an.
Wang Mang's son, Wang Yu, blamed Wang Mang for separating the Wei family from the royal family, fearing that Emperor Ping would be resentful when he grew up.
Wang Yu secretly sent a message to Wei Bao and others, asking Emperor Ping's mother to write a letter requesting to come to the capital.
These words are recorded in "The Biography of Queen Wei."
Wang Mang refused.
Wang Yu discussed this matter with his teacher Wu Zhang and brother-in-law Lu Kuan. Wu Zhang believed that Wang Mang would not listen to the persuasion, but he believed in ghosts and gods and could cause disasters to frighten him. Wu Zhang then took the opportunity to deduce and persuade him to hand over power to the Wei family.
Wang Yu asked Lu Ye to smear Wang Mang's mansion with blood. When the gatekeepers discovered what had happened, Wang Mang arrested Wang Yu and threw him into prison, where he drank poison and died.
Wang Yu's wife Lu Yan was pregnant and was imprisoned. He waited until she gave birth to a child before killing her.
Wang Mang reported: Wang Yu was implicated by Lu Kuan and others, went astray, spread rumors to confuse everyone, and committed the same crime as Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai. I dare not hide it, so he should be punished.
Zhen Han and others reported to the Queen Mother and issued an edict: Tang Yao had a son Danzhu, and King Wen of Zhou had sons Guan Shu and Cai Shu. These are all examples of people with high virtues, talents and wisdom having no choice but to deal with the stupidest sons, because their nature is hard to change.
You are in the position of Duke of Zhou, assisting young masters like King Cheng, and punishing Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai just like Duke Zhou did to Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai. You do not hinder respect for the court because of your love for your son. I appreciate your actions very much.
In the past, Duke Zhou punished the descendants of the three prisons and the four kingdoms of Huai and Yi, completing a profound enlightenment to the point where no one committed a crime and the punishment was shelved.
You should concentrate on assisting the government and hope to achieve peace.
Wang Mang took advantage of this opportunity to kill the Wei family, thoroughly investigated Lu Kuan's case, and implicated various counties and feudal states. He always criticized those with outstanding talents. The court involved Princess Jingwu, Liang Wang Liu Li, Hongyang Hou Wangli, and Ahou Wangren. He sent envoys to persecute them, but they all committed suicide.
Hundreds of people died, and the world was shocked.
Chen Zuo, named Bao, the great Sima Hujun, said: When Duke Anhan met his son Wang Yu and committed crimes like Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai, although he loved his son deeply, he did not dare to take into account personal affairs for the benefit of the royal family.
Considering Wang Yu's crime, he wrote eight articles with emotion to warn his descendants.
These articles should be distributed throughout the country and ordered to be used by academic officials to teach students.
The matter was handed down to the ministers. They requested that all officials in the country who could recite An Mo Gong's admonitions to his descendants should be recorded in the official archives and treat An Han Gong's text as the "Book of Filial Piety".
In the spring of the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, people worshiped heaven in the suburbs, and at the same time offered sacrifices to Emperor Gaozu, and worshiped heaven in the ancestral temple, and at the same time offered sacrifices to Emperor Xiaowen.
On the last day of April, Wang Mang's daughter was made queen and a general amnesty was announced.
Eight people including Da Situ Sizhi, Chen Chong and others were dispatched to various parts of the country to inspect social customs.
summary:
Wang Mang's son Wang Yu, fearing Emperor Ping's resentment, conspired with his teacher Wu Zhang and brother-in-law Lu Kuan to smear Wang Mang's mansion with blood to frighten him. Wang Mang arrested Wang Yu, who drank poison and died. Wang Mang killed Wang Yu's wife after she gave birth and used the incident to kill the Wei family and others, implicating many counties and feudal states. Hundreds of people died, shocking the world. Chen Zuo, the Grand Sima Hujun, praised Wang Mang for punishing his son like the Duke of Zhou. The ministers requested that Wang Mang's admonitions be distributed and treated like the "Book of Filial Piety." In the spring of the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, people worshiped heaven and offered sacrifices to Emperor Gaozu and Emperor Xiaowen. Wang Mang's daughter was made queen, and a general amnesty was announced. Eight officials were dispatched to inspect social customs. Taibao Wang Shun and others reported that Wang Mang's merits should be rewarded like Yi Yin and the Duke of Zhou. The ministers requested that Wang Mang be given the title of prime minister, ranking above the three dukes, with various honors and rewards.

Chunk 20: 
original: 
麟凤龟龙，众祥之瑞，七百有余。
遂制礼作乐，有绥靖宗庙社稷之大勋。
普天之下，惟公是赖，官在宰衡，位为上公。
今加九命之锡，其以助祭，共文武之职，乃遂及厥祖。於戏，岂不休哉！
于是莽稽首再拜，受绿韨衮冕衣赏，玚琫玚珌，句履，鸾路乘马，龙旂九旒，皮弁素积，戎路乘马，彤弓矢，卢弓矢，左建朱钺，右建金戚，甲胄一具，秬鬯二卣，圭瓒二，九命青玉珪二，朱户纳陛。
署宗官、祝官、卜官、史官，虎贲三百人，家令丞各一人，宗、祝、卜、史官皆置啬夫，佐官汉公。
在中府外第，虎贲为门卫，当出入者傅籍。
自四辅、三公有事府第，皆用传。
以楚王邸为安汉公第，大缮治，通周卫。
祖祢庙及寝皆为朱户纳陛。
陈崇又奏： 安汉公祠祖祢，出城门，城门校尉宜将骑士从。
入有门卫，出有骑士，所以重国也。
奏可。
其秋，莽以皇后有子孙瑞，通子午道。
子午道从杜陵直绝南山，径汉中。
风俗使者八人还，言天下风俗齐同，诈为郡国造歌谣，颂功德，凡三万言。
莽奏定著令。
又奏为市无二贾，官无狱讼，邑无盗贼，野无饥民，道不拾遗，男女异路之制，犯者象刑。
刘歆、陈崇等十二人皆以治明堂，宣教化，封为列侯。
莽既致太平，北化匈奴，东致海外，南怀黄支，唯西方未有加。
乃遣中郎将平宪等多持金币诱塞外羌，使献地，愿内属。
translation: 
Kirin, phoenix, turtle, yellow dragon and many other auspicious omens appeared more than 700 times.
Therefore, he formulated ritual systems, created music and teachings, and made great contributions to the stability of the country.
All the hopes of the whole world are pinned on you. You are the prime minister, and your title is the same as that of the Grand Duke.
The reward given to Jiuxi now should be used to participate in sacrifices and appoint hundreds of civil and military officials. The honor you have received will finally bring glory to your ancestors. Wow, isn't it beautiful?
So Wang Mang kowtowed again and accepted the green apron, formal dress, top hat and daily clothes, the jade-inlaid saber, the boots with different heads, the chariot with bells and four horses, the dragon flag with nine bunches of tape as decoration, the leather military crown and white war robe, and the military chariot. There are four war horses, a red bow and a black bow and arrow. There is a red ax and iron on the left side of the palace gate and a golden ax and iron on the right. There is a collar for each armor, two coins of fragrant wine, two jade spoons, and two nine-life sapphire gui that symbolizes the highest-ranking officials. It is allowed to install a red painted door and build steps inside the eaves.
There were set up Zongguan, Zhuguan, Buguan, and Shiguan, with 300 Huben officials. There was one family magistrate and family minister each. Zongguan, Zhu, Buguan, Shiguan and other officials were all appointed to assist Anhan Gong.
In government offices and private residences, tiger warriors served as doormen, and those who wanted to enter and exit had to be registered.
Starting from Si Fu and San Gong, if you want to enter the official office or house for something, you must use the command talisman.
The official residence of the King of Chu in Beijing was used as the residence of Duke Anhan, and it was greatly repaired and renovated to make it accessible to the surrounding guards.
Both ancestral sacrificial temples and dormitory temples can install red painted doors and create steps within the eaves.
Su Chong reported again: When Duke Anhan went out from the city gate to offer sacrifices to his ancestors, the captain of the city gate should send knights to follow him.
When you enter the city, you are protected by guards, and when you leave the city, you are followed by knights. This is to respect the country.
The memorial was approved.
In the autumn of this year, Wang Mang dug the Ziwu Road because his daughter, Queen Wang, had an auspicious sign of giving birth.
The Ziwu Road starts from Duling, crosses Zhongnan Mountain, and reaches Hanzhong.
Eight custom envoys came back and said that the customs of the world were uniform. They forged folk songs and folk songs of each county and feudal state to praise virtues, a total of 30,000 words.
Wang Mang reported it to the public and clearly recorded it in the documents.
He also reported that everything in the market has a second price, there are no lawsuits in the government, there are no thieves in the city, there are no hungry people in the suburbs, people do not pick up people on the road, and the system of men and women not walking together is implemented, and violators only receive symbolic punishment.
Twelve people including Liu Xin and Chen Chong were all granted the title of marquis for building Mingtang and promoting enlightenment.
Wang Mang has achieved peace, the north has influenced the Xiongnu, the east has attracted overseas countries, and the south has embraced the Huangzhi, but only the west has not been affected.
He sent Zhonglang, General Hu Xian and others to bring many gold and silver treasures to attract the Qiang people outside the Great Wall, and asked them to donate their land and express their willingness to belong to the Han Dynasty.
summary:
In the autumn, Wang Mang dug the Ziwu Road due to an auspicious sign from his daughter, Queen Wang. Eight custom envoys returned, reporting that the customs of the world were uniform and forging folk songs praising virtues. Wang Mang reported this and recorded it in documents. He also reported that there were no lawsuits, thieves, or hungry people, and the system of men and women not walking together was implemented. Twelve people, including Liu Xin and Chen Chong, were granted the title of marquis for building the Mingtang. Wang Mang sent envoys to attract the Qiang people, who offered their land to become subjects. Wang Mang proposed establishing Xihai County and revising state names and boundaries. The memorial was approved, and fifty additional laws were added, with violators exiled to Xihai County. The people became resentful. Liu Qing, Marquis of Quanling, wrote a letter suggesting Wang Mang act as regent like the Duke of Zhou. The ministers agreed. When Emperor Ping fell ill, Wang Mang prayed for his safety and offered to sacrifice his own life. Emperor Ping died, and Wang Mang recruited scholars to participate in the decision to mourn for three years. He selected Liu Ying, a two-year-old great-great-grandson of Emperor Xuan, as the successor.

Chunk 26: 
original: 
安汉公庐为摄省，府为摄殿，第为摄宫。
奏可。
莽白太后下诏曰： 故太师光虽前薨，功效已列。
太保舜、大司空丰、轻车将军邯、步兵将军建皆为诱进单于筹策，又典灵台、明堂、辟雍、四郊，定制度，开子午道，与宰衡同心说德，合意并力，功德茂著。
封舜了匡为同心侯，林为说德侯，光孙寿为合意侯，丰孙匡为并力侯。
益邯、建各三千户。
是岁，西羌庞恬、傅幡等怨莽夺其地作西海郡，反攻西海太守程永，永奔走。
莽诛永，遣护羌校尉窦况击之。
二年春，窦况等击破西羌。
五月，更造货：错刀，一直五千；契刀，一直五百；大钱，一直五十，与五铢钱并行。
民多盗铸者。
禁列侯以下不得挟黄金，输御府受直，然卒不与直。
九月，东郡太守翟义都试，勒车骑，因发奔命，立严乡侯刘信为天子，移檄郡国，言 莽毒杀平帝，摄天子位，欲绝汉室，今共行天罚诛莽 。
郡国疑惑，众十余万。
莽惶惧不能食，昼夜抱孺子告祷郊庙，放《大诰》作策，遣谏大夫桓谭等班于天下，谕以摄位当反政孺子之意。
遣王邑、孙建等八将军击义，分屯诸关，守厄塞。
槐里男子赵明、霍鸿等起兵，以和翟义，相与谋曰： 诸将精兵悉东，京师空，可攻长安。
众稍多，至且十万人，莽恐，遣将军王奇、王级将兵拒之。
以太保甄邯为大将军，受钺高庙，领天下兵，左杖节，右把钺，屯城外。
王舜、甄丰昼夜循行殿中。
十二月，王邑等破翟义于圉。
translation: 
The official office of Lord Anhan was called the Regency, the official office was the Regent Palace, and the residence was the Regent Palace.
The memorial was approved.
Wang Mang reported to the Empress Dowager Ming and issued an edict saying: Although the former Grand Master Kong Guang has passed away, his achievements have been arranged.
Taibao Wang Shun, Grand Sikong Zhenfeng, Qingchao General Zhen Han, and Infantry General Sun Jian all made suggestions for the recruitment of Chanyu. They also presided over the construction of a spiritual platform for observing the sky, a Mingtang for grand ceremonies, a central imperial school, and altars in the suburbs. They established systems and opened the Ziwu Road. They worked together with the Prime Minister and made outstanding contributions.
Wang Kuang, the son of Wang Shun, was granted the title of Tongxinhou, Wang Lin was granted the title of Shuodehou, Kongguang's grandson Jieshou was granted the title of Heyihou, and Zhenfeng's grandson Zhenkuang was granted the title of Binglihou.
Zhen Han and Sun Jian were given additional 3,000 households each.
This year, Pang Tian, ​​Fu Fan and others of the Xiqiang people resented Wang Mang for taking away their land as Xihai County, so they counterattacked Cheng Yong, the prefect of Xihai County, and Cheng Yong fled.
Wang Mang killed Cheng Yong and sent the captain to protect the Qiang to attack the Western Qiang.
In the spring of the second year, Dou Kuang and others defeated the Xiqiang.
In May, new currencies were minted: Wrong knives, each worth 5,000 yen; deed knives, worth 500 yen each; large coins, worth 50 yen each, and circulated at the same time as the five baht coins.
There are many people in the private sector who mint currency privately.
Therefore, a ban was issued on people from the princes down to the princes to not carry gold privately. Those who handed it over to the imperial palace could get the same price, but those who handed over the gold never got the coins of the same price.
In September, Zhai Yi, the prefect of Dongjun, took advantage of the day of the general test of knights. He assembled chariots and cavalry, mobilized emergency troops, and elected Liu Xin, Marquis of Yanxiang, as emperor. He sent a message to all counties and feudal states, accusing Wang Mang of poisoning Emperor Ping to death. He acted as emperor and wanted to cut off the Han Dynasty. Now I am ordered by heaven to attack Wang Mang.
The counties and feudal states were shaken, and Zhai Yi's army numbered more than 100,000.
Wang Mang was so frightened that he couldn't eat. He carried the boy to the suburbs and prayed at the ancestral temple day and night, imitating the "Book of Zhou". "Da Gao" wrote a policy book and sent Huan Tan and others to admonish the emperor to announce his intention to act as the emperor and return the power to Ruzi in the future.
Eight generals including Wang Yi and Sun Jian were sent to attack Zhai Yi and stationed at various passes to guard dangerous places.
Tang Ming, Huo Hong and others from Huaili County raised troops to respond to Zhai Yi and conspired with each other: "The generals and elite troops have been sent away, and the capital is empty. We can attack Chang'an."
The army gradually increased and grew to nearly 100,000 people. Wang Mang was afraid and sent generals Wang Qi and Wang Ji to lead their troops to resist them.
He appointed Taibao Zhen Han as the general, awarded him an ax and iron in Gaodi Temple, and led the army of the whole country, holding a knot in his left hand and an ax and cymbal in his right hand, stationed outside the city of Chang'an.
Wang Shun and Zhen Feng patrolled the palace day and night.
In December, Wang Yi and other generals defeated Zhai Yi in Yu County.
summary:
In the spring of the second year, new currencies were minted, and a ban was issued on carrying gold privately. In September, Zhai Yi, the prefect of Dongjun, raised troops and elected Liu Xin as emperor, accusing Wang Mang of poisoning Emperor Ping. Wang Mang was frightened and sent eight generals to attack Zhai Yi. Tang Ming and Huo Hong also raised troops to respond, growing to nearly 100,000 people. Wang Mang sent generals to resist them and appointed Zhen Han as the general. In December, Wang Yi and other generals defeated Zhai Yi. Chen Chong wrote a memorial praising Wang Mang's wisdom. Wang Mang was very happy. In the spring of three years, an earthquake occurred, and Wang Mang announced a general amnesty. Wang Yi and others defeated Ming Dynasty and Huo Hong. Wang Mang held a banquet to reward the generals and wrote a memorial suggesting that the Zhou system be followed for titles and fiefs. The memorial was approved, and several hundred people were granted titles. The ministers reported that Wang Mang's sons should be promoted to the title of Duke. The Queen Mother agreed, and Wang An and Wang Lin were made dukes. Wang Guang was granted the title of Yan Gonghou. Wang Mang then planned to ascend to the true throne.

Chunk 29: 
original: 
司威陈崇奏，衍功侯光私报执金吾窦况，令杀人，况为收系，致其法。
莽大怒，切责光。
光母曰： 女自视孰与长孙、中孙？
遂母子自杀，及况皆死。
初，莽以事母、养嫂、抚兄子为名，及后悖虐，复以示公义焉。
令光子嘉嗣爵为侯。
莽下书曰： 遏密之义，讫于季冬，正月郊祀，八音当奏。
王公卿士，乐凡几等？
五声八音，条各云何？
其与所部儒生各尽精思，悉陈其义。
是岁，广饶侯刘京，车骑将军千人扈云、太保属臧鸿奏符命。
京言齐郡新井，云言巴郡石牛，鸿言扶风雍石，莽皆迎受。
十一月甲子，莽上奏太后曰：
陛下至圣，遭家不造，遇汉十二世三七之厄，承天威命，诏臣莽居摄，受孺子之托，任天下之寄。
臣莽兢兢业业，惧于不称。
宗室广饶侯刘京上书言： 七月中，齐郡临淄县昌兴亭长辛当一暮数梦，曰： 吾，天公使也。
天公使我告亭长曰： 摄皇帝当为真。
即不信我，此亭中当有新井。
亭长晨起视亭中，诚有新井，入地且百尺。 十一月壬子，直建冬至，巴郡石牛，戊午，雍石文，皆到于未央宫之前殿。
臣与太保安阳侯舜等视，天风起，尘冥，风止，得铜符帛图于右前，文曰：天告帝符，献者封侯。
承天命，用神令。
骑都尉崔发等视说。
及前孝哀皇帝建平二年六月甲子下诏书，更为太初元将元年，案其本事，甘忠可、夏贺良谶书臧兰台。
translation: 
Siwei Chen Chong reported that Yan Gong Hou Wang Guang privately told Zhi Jinwu Shi Ji and taught him to kill for him. Shi Ji arrested the man and sentenced him to death and beheading.
Wang Mang was furious and scolded Wang Guang severely.
Wang Guang's mother said: Which one do you think is closer to Wang Yu or Wang Huozhong?
The mother and son committed suicide as a result, and even the real person died.
At first, Wang Mang gained a good reputation by serving his mother, supporting his widowed sister-in-law, and raising his nephew. Later, when he became arrogant and cruel, he used this to show his fairness and selflessness.
Let Wang Guang's son Wang Jia inherit the title and become Ding Yangonghou.
Wang Mang wrote a letter saying: The rule prohibiting playing music will end at the end of the twelfth lunar month of this year, and all musical instruments can be played during the first lunar month of next year to offer sacrifices to heaven and earth.
What are the grades of music used by princes, kings, princes, ministers, and scholar-bureaucrats?
Five tones and eight tones, what is each one?
You and the Confucian scholars you belong to should try your best to think about them and state their meaning in detail.
In this year, Liu Jing, the Marquis of Guangrao, Hu Yun, the general of chariots and cavalry, and Zang Hong, the Taibao officer, reported their orders.
Liu Jing said that a new well suddenly appeared in Qi County, Hu Yun said that a stone cow was found in Ba County, and Zang Hong said that an immortal stone was found in Yong County, Fufeng. Wang Mang readily accepted it.
On Jiazi Day in November, Wang Mang wrote a memorial to the Queen Mother:
Your Majesty is the most sage and wise. When the royal family was in adversity, faced with the dangerous fate of the 12th generation of the Han Dynasty for 210 years, and accepting the majestic order of heaven, he ordered Wang Mang to serve as regent, act on behalf of the emperor, accept the commission of Fu Ruzi, and shoulder the great hope of the world.
The minister Wang Mang works hard, fearing that he will be incompetent.
Liu Jing, Marquis of Guangrao in the royal family, wrote to him: In mid-July, Xin Dang, the head of Changxing Pavilion in Linzi County, Qi County, had several dreams one night. He dreamed that someone said to him: I am the messenger of the Emperor of Heaven.
The Emperor of Heaven sent me to tell the pavilion chief: The acting emperor should become the real emperor.
If you don't believe me, a new well will appear in this pavilion.
The director of the pavilion got up in the morning and looked at the pavilion. There was indeed a new well, which was nearly a hundred feet underground. On Renzi day in November, when Jianchen met the winter solstice, the stone oxen from Bajun, Wuwu day, and Yong's stone inscriptions were all sent to the front hall of Weiyang Palace.
I went to watch with Tai Baoyang Marquis Wang Shun and others. Suddenly there was a strong wind in the sky, dust was flying, and the sky was dark. When the wind stopped, I saw a copper talisman letter and pictures and characters written on silk in front of the two stones. The content was: God notified the emperor of the talisman's fate, and the person who presented it could be made a marquis.
Accept destiny and carry out divine orders.
Cavalry Captain Cui Fa and others read the full text and explained its meaning.
In the past, Emperor Xiaoai issued an edict on Jiazi in June of the second year of Jianping, changing it to the first year of Taichu Yuanjiang. To examine the process of Emperor Xiaoai's change to Yuan Dynasty, Gan Zhongke and Xia Heliang's mysterious prophecies and omens were hidden in Lantai.
summary:
In September, Wang Mang's mother died. Instead of expressing grief, Wang Mang asked the Queen Mother to discuss his mourning clothes. The doctors and Confucian scholars said that the regent should not wear mourning clothes for his biological mother. Wang Mang implemented their suggestion. Chen Chong reported that Wang Guang had privately told Zhi Jinwu Shi Ji to kill for him. Wang Mang was furious, and Wang Guang and his mother committed suicide. Wang Mang wrote a letter about the prohibition of playing music and asked about the grades of music. In this year, Liu Jing, Hu Yun, and Zang Hong reported auspicious omens. Wang Mang readily accepted them. On Jiazi day in November, Wang Mang wrote a memorial to the Queen Mother, citing various omens and requesting to be called the "false emperor" and to change the calendar. The memorial was approved. The common people learned of his belief in the talisman, and the ministers discussed it widely. Aizhang, a native of Zitong County, made a copper cabinet with inscriptions claiming Wang Mang was the true emperor. Wang Mang went to the Gaodi Temple to receive the copper cabinet, wore the crown, and ascended the throne as the True Dragon Emperor. He declared a new country, changed the calendar, and set the colors of carriages, horses, and clothing to yellow.

