Chunk 0: 
original: 
王莽字巨君，孝元皇后之弟子也。
元后父及兄弟皆以元、成世封侯，居位辅政，家凡九侯、五大司马，语在《元后传》。
唯莽父曼蚤死，不侯。
莽群兄弟皆将军五侯子，乘时侈靡，以舆马声色佚游相高，莽独孤贫，因折节为恭俭。
受《礼经》，师事沛郡陈参，勤身博学，被服如儒生。
事母及寡嫂，养孤兄子，行甚敕备。
又外交英俊，内事诸父，曲有礼意。
阳朔中，世父大将军凤病，莽侍疾，亲尝药，乱首垢面，不解衣带连月。
凤且死，以托太后及帝，拜为黄门郎，迁射声校尉。
久之，叔父成都侯商上书，愿分户邑以封莽，及长乐少府戴崇、侍中金涉、胡骑校尉箕闳、上谷都尉阳并、中郎陈汤，皆当世名士，咸为莽言，上由是贤莽。
永始元年，封莽为新都侯，国南阳新野之都乡，千五百户。
迁骑都尉、光禄大夫、侍中。宿卫谨敕，爵位益尊，节操愈谦。
散舆马衣裘，振施宾客，家无所余。
收赡名士，交结将相、卿、大夫甚众。
故在位更推荐之，游者为之谈说，虚誉隆洽，倾其诸父矣。
敢为激发之行，处之不惭恧。
莽兄永为诸曹，蚤死，有子光，莽使学博士门下。
莽休沐出，振车骑，奉羊酒，劳遗其师，恩施下竟同学。
诸生纵观，长老叹息。
光年小于莽子宇，莽使同日内妇，宾客满堂。
须臾，一人言太夫人苦某痛，当饮某药，比客罢者数起焉。
translation: 
Wang Mang, also known as Jujun, is the nephew of Queen Xiaoyuan.
Empress Yuan's father and brothers all became marquises during the reigns of Emperor Yuan and Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty, held important positions, and assisted in government affairs. There were nine people in the family who were granted the title of marquis and five chief ministers. These words are recorded in the "Biography of the Empress of the Yuan Dynasty".
Only Wang Mang's father, Wang Man, died earlier and was not granted a title.
Wang Mang's uncles and brothers were all the sons of generals and marquises. They took advantage of the time when their fathers were powerful and lived a luxurious and lavish life. They showed off and compared each other with tall carriages and horses, talented singers and concubines, beautiful concubines, and novel games. Wang Mang was the only one who was lonely and poor, so he treated others with humility and lived a simple life.
He worshiped Chen Shen, a native of Pei County, as his teacher, studied "Etiquette" and "Zhou Rites", worked diligently and extensively, and dressed like an ordinary scholar.
He served his mother and widowed sister-in-law, raised his fatherless nephew, and behaved with great caution.
In addition, he made friends with outstanding talents outside and served his uncles and uncles in the family with tact, thoughtfulness and courtesy.
During the Yangshuo period, his uncle, the general Wang Feng, fell ill. Wang Mang served him and took the medicine himself. He did not comb his hair or wash his face, resulting in unkempt appearance. He went to bed without taking off his clothes for several months.
When Wang Feng was dying, she entrusted Wang Mang to the Queen Mother and Emperor Cheng. He was appointed Huang Menlang and was later promoted to Shesheng Xiaowei.
After a long time, his uncle Chengdu Marquis Wang Shang wrote to the emperor, expressing his willingness to allocate his own households to Wang Mang. Others, such as Changle Shaofu Dai Chong, Shi Zhong Jin She, Hu Qi Xiao Lieutenant Ji Hong, Shanggu Du Wei Yang Bing and Zhonglang Chen Tang, were all very famous people at the time. They all spoke for Wang Mang. From then on, the emperor considered Wang Mang to be a wise man.
In the first year of Yongshi, Emperor Cheng granted Wang Mang the title of Marquis of Xindu. The Marquis was built in the capital of Xinye County, Nanyang County, with 1,500 households.
Later he was promoted to the rank of Cavalry Captain and Guanglu Doctor, and he served as a guard in the palace. He was cautious and considerate. As his official position became higher and higher, his attitude became more and more humble.
He distributed carriages, horses, and light warm clothing, and gave alms to the guests, so that there was no extra clothing in the house.
He accepted and supported famous people and made friends with many generals, prime ministers, and officials.
Therefore, people in important positions recommended him more, and celebrities in the society advocated for him. His reputation spread throughout the government and the public, surpassing his uncles.
He dares to behave in a pretentious manner without feeling ashamed.
Wang Mang's brother Wang Yong, who had served in various Cao Cao positions, had died long ago. He had a son named Wang Guang, and Wang Mang asked him to study under a doctor.
When Wang Mang was on vacation, he drove his chariot and horses, brought sheep and wine, and went to comfort his teacher. He even gave gifts to his classmates.
It attracted many scholars to watch and the old people admired it.
Wang Guang was younger than Wang Mang's son Wang Yu, so Wang Mang asked them to get married on the same day. The hall was filled with congratulatory guests.
After a while, one person said that his mother had some kind of illness and what medicine she should take. By the time the guests left, he had already gotten up several times.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
尝私买侍婢，昆弟或颇闻知，莽因曰： 后将军朱子元无子，莽闻此儿种宜子，为买之。
即日以婢奉子元。
其匿情求名如此。
是时，太后姊子淳于长以材能为九卿，先进在莽右。
莽阴求其罪过，因大司马曲阳侯根白之，长伏诛，莽以获忠直，语在《长传》。
根因乞骸骨，荐莽自代，上遂擢为大司马。
是岁，绥和元年也，年三十八矣。
莽既拔出同列，继四父而辅政，欲令名誉过前人，遂克已不倦，聘诸贤良以为掾史，赏赐邑钱悉以享士，愈为俭约。
母病，公卿列侯遣夫人问疾，莽妻迎之，衣不曳地，布蔽膝。
见之者以为僮使，问知其夫人，皆惊。
辅政岁余，成帝崩，哀帝即位，尊皇太后为太皇太后。
太后诏莽就第，避帝外家。
莽上疏乞骸骨，哀帝遣尚书令诏莽曰： 先帝委政于君而弃群臣，朕得奉宗庙，诚嘉与君同心合意。
今君移病求退，以著朕之不能奉顺先帝之意，朕甚悲伤焉。
已诏尚书待君奏事。
又遣丞相孔光、大司空何武、左将军师丹、卫尉傅喜白太后曰： 皇帝闻太后诏，甚悲。
大司马即不起，皇帝即不敢听政。
太后复令莽视事。
时哀帝祖母定陶傅太后、母丁姬在，高昌侯董宏上书言： 《春秋》之义，母以子贵，丁姬宜上尊号。
莽与师丹共劾宏误朝不道，语在《丹传》。
后日，未央宫置酒，内者令为傅太后张幄坐于太皇太后坐旁。
translation: 
He once secretly bought a maidservant, and word gradually spread among his brothers. Wang Mang said: "The later general Zhu Ziyuan has no sons. I heard that this woman can have many sons, so I bought her for him."
The maidservant was given to Zhu Ziyuan that day.
Wang Mang went to such an extent to hide his true feelings and pursue fame.
At this time, Chun Yuchang, the son of the Queen Mother's sister, was ranked among the nine ministers because of his talents. He was an official before Wang Mang and his reputation and status were above Wang Mang.
Wang Mang secretly collected his crimes, and reported his situation to Emperor Cheng through the Grand Sima Quyanghou Wanggen. Chunyu Chang was killed by the law, and Wang Mang gained a reputation for loyalty and integrity. These words are recorded in the "Chun Yu Chang Biography".
Wang Gen therefore requested to retire and recommended Wang Mang to replace him. The emperor then promoted Wang Mang to be the Grand Sima.
This year is the first year of Suihe, and Wang Mang is thirty-eight years old.
Since Wang Mang had surpassed his peers and assisted the emperor after his four uncles, he planned to make his reputation better than that of his predecessors, so he set strict demands on himself and worked tirelessly. He hired many virtuous people to serve as subordinate officials, and all the rewards from the emperor and the income from fiefdoms were used to entertain the scholars. He himself became more frugal and frugal.
His mother was ill, and the princes, ministers and princes sent their wives to inquire about her condition. Wang Mang's wife went out to greet her, but she did not have a floor-length gown, and her sarong only reached her knees.
Those who saw her thought she was a slave, but when they asked, they found out that she was Wang Mang's wife, and they were all surprised.
Wang Mang assisted the government for more than a year. Emperor Mo Cheng died and Emperor Ai of the Han Dynasty succeeded to the throne. He honored the Empress Dowager as the Empress Dowager.
The Queen Mother ordered Wang Mang to resign and go home, giving up power to Emperor Ai's maternal family.
Wang Mang then submitted a memorial and asked to resign. Emperor Ai sent his minister Shao to order Wang Mang to say: The late emperor entrusted the government to you and abandoned his subordinates. I can take over the country and I really hope to be of the same mind as you.
Now that you have written a letter saying that you are ill and requesting resignation, it seems that I cannot obey the late emperor's will. I am very sad about this.
The minister has been ordered to wait for you to come to court to report.
He also sent Prime Minister Kong Guang, Grand Sikong Hewu, General Zuo Shidan, and Weiwei Fu happy to report to the Queen Mother: The emperor was very sad when he heard the Queen Mother's edict.
If Da Sima did not become an official, the emperor would not dare to handle government affairs.
The Queen Mother also appointed Wang Mang as director.
At this time, Emperor Ai's grandmother, the Empress Dowager Dingtao, and her mother, Liao Ji, were still alive. Dong Hong, the Marquis of Gaochang, wrote a letter saying: According to the meaning of "Spring and Autumn", mothers are more valuable than their children, so Ding Ji should be given the honorific title.
Wang Mang and Shi Dan jointly impeached and exposed Dong Hong for misleading the court and violating principles. These words were recorded in "The Biography of Shi Dan".
Later, a banquet was held in Weiyang Palace, and the insider ordered a curtain to be set up for Empress Dowager Fu to sit next to the Empress Dowager.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
莽案行，责内者令曰： 定陶太后藩妾，何以得与至尊并！
彻去，更设坐，傅太后闻之，大怒，不肯会，重怨恚莽。
莽复乞骸骨，哀帝赐莽黄金五百斤，安车驷马，罢就第。
公卿大夫多称之者，上乃加恩宠，置使家，中黄门十日一赐餐。
下诏曰： 新都侯莽忧劳国家，执义坚固，朕庶几与为治。
太皇太后诏莽就第，朕甚闵焉。
其以黄邮聚户三百五十益封莽，位特进，给事中，朝朔望见礼如三公。车驾乘绿车从。
后二岁，傅太后、丁姬皆称尊号，丞相朱博奏： 莽前不广尊尊之义，抑贬尊号，亏损孝道，当伏显戮，幸蒙赦令，不宜有爵土，请免为庶人。
上曰： 以莽与太皇太后有属，勿免，遣就国。
莽杜门自守，其中子获杀奴，莽切责获，令自杀。
在国三岁，吏上书冤讼莽者以百数。
元寿元年，日食，贤良周护、宋崇等对策深颂莽功德，上于是征莽。
始莽就国，南阳太守以莽贵重，选门下掾宛孔休守新都相。
休谒见莽，莽尽礼自纳，休亦闻其名，与相答。
后莽疾，休侯之，莽缘恩意，进其玉具宝剑，欲以为好。
休不肯受，莽因曰： 诚见君面有瘢，美玉可以灭瘢，欲献其瑑耳。
即解其瑑，休复辞让。莽曰： 君嫌其贾邪？
遂椎碎之，自裹以进休，休乃受。
及莽征去，欲见休，休称疾不见。
莽还京师岁余，哀帝崩，无子，而傅太后、丁太后皆先薨，太皇太后即日驾之未央宫收取玺绶，遣使者驰召莽。
诏尚书，诸发兵符节，百官奏事，中黄门、期门兵皆属莽。
莽白： 大司马高安侯董贤年少，不合众心，收印绶。
贤即日自杀。
太后诏公卿举可大司马者，大司徒孔光、大司空彭宣举莽，前将军何武、后将军公孙禄互相举。
translation: 
When Wang Mang saw her during his inspection, he scolded his concubine and said: "The Empress Dowager of Dingtao is the empress dowager of the vassal king and the concubine of Emperor Yuan. How can she be ranked with the most noble person!"
The curtains were removed and seats were installed. When Empress Dowager Fu heard about this, she was very angry and refused to attend the banquet. She was extremely resentful of Wang Mang.
Wang Mang asked to resign again, and Emperor Ai rewarded Wang Mang with five hundred catties of gold, a chariot and four horses, and he was relieved of his duties and returned to his palace.
Many princes, ministers and officials praised him, and the emperor gave him preferential treatment and love. He arranged for special envoys to serve him at home, and asked the eunuchs in the palace to reward him with food and drink every ten days.
Xia Shaoshu said: Wang Mang, the lord of Xindu, worries about the country and always acts according to the rules. I can almost achieve peace with him.
The Empress Dowager Shao ordered Wang Mang to return to his residence. I regret this very much.
The three hundred and fifty households that Huang You gathered should be sealed to Wang Mang, and he should be given the official title of "Special Advancement". Whenever he attends court meetings on the first and fifteenth day of the lunar month, the emperor will receive him with the same etiquette as when he receives the three princes. When the emperor travels, he will follow him in a green car.
Two years later, Empress Dowager Fu and Ding Ji both had honorable titles. Prime Minister Zhu Bo wrote a letter saying: Wang Mang was unwilling to promote the principle of respecting elders and suppressed and lowered the honorable title of the Empress Dowager, which was detrimental to filial piety and should be punished. Fortunately, he was pardoned and should not have a title or land. Please remove me and demote me to civilian status.
The emperor said: Because Wang Mang is related to the Empress Dowager, he will not be exempted from his title and fief, and orders him to return to his country.
Wang Mang thanked guests behind closed doors and kept to himself. His second son Wang Huo killed his slave. Wang Mang severely blamed Wang Huo and asked him to commit suicide.
After staying in the feudal state for three years, hundreds of officials wrote to redress Wang Mang's grievances.
In the first year of Yuanshou, there was a solar eclipse. The virtuous Zhou Hu, Song Chong and others praised Wang Mang's meritorious deeds when answering the emperor's questions, so the emperor recalled Wang Mang.
When Wang Mang returned to the feudal state, the Nanyang Prefect, because of Wang Mang's high and important status, selected Kong Xiu, a native of Wan County, an official of the Prefect's Yamen, to temporarily serve as the Prime Minister of the new capital.
Kong Xiu went to see Wang Mang, and Wang Mang took the initiative to make friends with him through all manners. Kong Xiu also knew his reputation and interacted with him.
Later, when Wang Mang fell ill, Kong Xiu greeted him. Wang Mang repaid Kong Xiu's deep friendship and gave him his own sword inlaid with jade, intending to establish a friendly relationship with him.
Kong Xiu refused to accept it, so Wang Mang said, "I did see scars on your face. Beautiful jade can be used to remove the scars. I just want to give you this sword nose."
Then he took off the sword nose, but Kong Xiu refused again. Wang Mang said: Do you think its price is too high?
So he smashed the sword's nose with vertebrae, wrapped it up and gave it to Kong Xiu, and Kong Xiu accepted it.
When Wang Mang was summoned to the court and about to leave, he wanted to see Kong Xiu, but Kong Xiu excused himself from meeting because he was ill.
Wang Mang returned to the capital Chang'an for more than a year. Emperor Ai passed away without a son, and both Empress Dowager Fu and Empress Dowager Ding died before Emperor Ai. The Empress Dowager went to Weiyang Palace to collect the seal ribbon and sent an envoy on Pegasus to summon Wang Mang.
Order the minister, all the official documents of the imperial court to send troops, all civil and military officials to report the affairs of the court to the emperor, and the eunuchs in the inner palace and the emperor's personal soldiers are all under Wang Mang's command.
Wang Mang reported: "Da Sima Gao'an Hou Dong Xian is too young and does not meet everyone's wishes, so his seal will be confiscated."
Dong Xian committed suicide that day.
The Empress Dowager Shao ordered the princes and ministers to recommend people suitable to succeed Da Sima. Da Situ Kongguang and Da Sikong Pengxuan recommended Wang Mang, and former general He Wu and latter general Gongsun Lu recommended each other.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
太后拜莽为大司马，与议立嗣。
安阳侯王舜，莽之从弟，其人修饬，太后所信爱也，莽白以舜为车骑将军，使迎中山王奉成帝后，是为孝平皇帝。
帝年九岁，太后临朝称制，委政于莽。
莽白赵氏前害皇子，傅氏骄僣，遂废孝成赵皇后、孝哀傅皇后，皆令自杀，语在《外戚传》。
莽以大司徒孔光名儒，相三主，太后所敬，天下信之，于是盛尊事光，引光女婿甄邯为侍中奉车都尉。
诸哀帝外戚及大臣居位素所不说者，莽皆傅致其罪，为请奏，令邯持与光。
光素畏慎，不敢不上之，莽白太后，辄可其奏。
于是前将军何武、后将军公孙禄坐互相举免，丁、傅及董贤亲属皆免官爵，徙远方。
红阳侯立，太后亲弟，虽不居位，莽以诸父内敬惮之，畏立从容言太后，令已不得肆意，乃复令光奏立旧恶： 前知定陵侯淳于长犯大逆罪，多受其赂，为言误朝；后白以官婢杨寄私子为皇子，众言曰吕氏、少帝复出，纷纷为天下所疑，难以示来世，成襁褓之功。
请遣立就国。
太后不听。
莽曰： 今汉家衰，比世无嗣，太后独代幼主统政，诚可畏惧，力用公正先天下，尚恐不从，今以私恩逆大臣议如此，群下倾邪，乱从此起！
宜可且遣就国，安后复征召之。
太后不得已，遣立就国。
莽之所以胁持上下，皆此类也。
于是附顺者拔擢，忤恨者诛灭。
王舜、王邑为腹心，甄丰、甄邯主击断，平晏领机事，刘歆典文章，孙建为爪牙。
丰子寻、歆子棻、涿郡崔发、南阳陈崇皆以材能幸于莽。
莽色厉而言方，欲有所为，微见风采，党与承其指意而显奏之，莽稽首涕泣，固推让焉，上以惑太后，下用示信于众庶。
始，风益州令塞处蛮夷献白雉，元始元年正月，莽白太后下诏，以白雉荐宗庙。
群臣因奏言太后： 委任大司马莽定策定宗庙。
故大司马霍光有安宗庙之功，益封三万户，畴其爵邑，比萧相国。
莽宜如光故事。
太后问公卿曰： 诚以大司马有大功当著之邪？
translation: 
The Queen Mother appointed Wang Mang as Grand Sima and discussed with him the selection of a successor to the throne.
Wang Shun, the Marquis of Anyang, was Wang Mang's cousin. He was cautious and trusted by the Queen Mother. Wang Mang proposed that Wang Shun be the chariot general and asked him to greet the King of Zhongshan to succeed him as emperor, creating Emperor Xiaoping.
When Emperor Ping was just nine years old, the Queen Mother came to the court to act as an agent in government affairs and entrusted the government affairs to Wang Mang.
Tu Mang pointed out that the Tang family had killed the prince in the past, and the Fu family was proud and arrogant, so he deposed Empress Xiaocheng Tang and Empress Xiaoai Fu and ordered them to commit suicide. These words are recorded in "The Biography of the Wife".
Because the great Situ Kong Guang was a famous Confucian scholar, Wang Mang had assisted three emperors, namely Cheng Emperor, Ai Emperor and Heping Emperor. He was respected by the Empress Dowager and trusted by the people of the country, so he treated Kong Guang with great respect and recommended Kong Guang's son-in-law Zhen Han to serve as a servant and captain of the car.
For all the relatives of Emperor Ai and the ministers in important positions whom he disliked, Wang Mang wrote a memorial asking for instructions and asked Zhen Han to bring them to Jie Guang.
Kong Guang has always been fearful and cautious, and he dared not fail to report the matter. Wang Mang reported to the Queen Mother again, and the Queen Mother agreed to these memorials.
So the former general He Wu and the latter general Gongsun Lu were dismissed from their posts because they recommended each other to be appointed as Grand Sima. The relatives of Ding, Fu and Dong Xian were all removed from their official positions and titles and were exiled to distant places.
Wang Li, the Marquis of Hongyang, was the younger brother of the Queen Mother. Although he was not an official, Wang Mang respected him in his heart because he was his uncle. He was afraid that Wang Li would enlighten the Queen Mother when he was free so that he would not be able to do whatever he wanted. He also asked Kong Guang to report Wang Li's past crimes to the Queen Mother: Wang Li knew that Dingling Marquis Chunyu was a long-time criminal. After committing the crime of treason, he also accepted a large amount of bribes from him, interceded for him, and misled the court; later, he reported that the illegitimate son of the official slave Yang Ji was used as the prince. Everyone said that Empress Lu and the young emperor were resurrected. There were different opinions, making the world suspicious. This made it difficult to show future generations and complete the task of protecting the young master.
Please let Wang Li return to his feudal kingdom.
The Queen Mother did not follow his advice.
Wang Mang said: Now that the Han Dynasty is in decline and there are no heirs for several generations, it is really terrible for you, Queen Mother, to take charge of the government on your own instead of your young master. You try hard to set an example for the world with a fair attitude, but you may not obey me. If you don't listen to my opinion out of personal love, then the officials will have evil thoughts, and disaster will happen!
He should be sent back to the feudal country for the time being, and then transferred back after the country's affairs have stabilized a bit.
The Queen Mother had no choice but to let Wang Li return to his country.
These were all the methods Wang Mang used to coerce and blackmail the Queen Mother and her ministers.
In this way, those who relied on and obeyed him were promoted, and those who opposed and resented him were killed.
Wang Shun and Wang Yi became his confidants, Zhen Feng and Zhen Han were in charge of pickets, impeachments, and trials, Ping Yan was in charge of confidential military and political affairs, Liu Xin was in charge of rituals, music, and regulations, and Sun Jian became his right-hand assistant.
Zhen Feng's son Zhen Xun, Liu Xin's son Liu Cai, Cui Fa from Zhuojun, and Chen Chong from Nanyang were all favored by Wang Mang because of their talents.
Wang Mang looked stern and spoke seriously. If he wanted to do something, he only needed to give a slight hint with his expression and face, and the party members would clearly report his intention to the superiors. Wang Mang would kowtow and cry and resolutely refuse to give in. This was used to confuse the Queen Mother, and to show integrity to the common people.
At first, Wang Mang politely signaled to the Yizhou Order to let the barbarians outside the Great Wall donate white-feathered pheasants. In the first month of the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, Wang Mang reported to the Queen Mother and issued an edict to use white-feathered pheasants as offerings to the ancestral temple.
The ministers then reported to the Queen Mother: The Queen Mother appointed Grand Sima Wang Mang to make the decision to support the new emperor, thus bringing stability to the court.
The previous great Sima Huo Guang was credited with stabilizing the country and adding 30,000 households in the fiefdoms. It was also stipulated that after his death, his descendants would inherit the title and the number of fiefdoms would be equal to his, just like that of Xiao Xiangguo.
Wang Mang should be awarded the title according to Huo Guang's example.
The Queen Mother asked the princes and ministers: Is it really because Da Sima has made great contributions that he should be praised?


Chunk 4: 
original: 
将以骨肉故欲异之也？
于是群臣乃盛陈： 莽功德致周成白雉之瑞，千载同符。
圣王之法，臣有大功则生有美号，故周公及身在而托号于周。
莽有定国安汉家之大功，宜赐号曰安汉公，益户，畴爵邑，上应古制，下准行事，以顺天心。
太后诏尚书具其事。
莽上书言： 臣与孔光、王舜、甄丰、甄邯共定策，今愿独条光等功赏，寝置臣莽，勿随辈列。
甄邯白太后下诏曰：  无偏无党，王道荡荡。
属有亲者，义不得阿。
君有安宗庙之功，不可以骨肉故蔽隐不扬。
君其勿辞。
莽复上书让。
太后诏谒者引莽待殿东箱，莽称疾不肯入。
太后使尚书令恂诏之曰： 君以选故而辞以疾，君任重，不可阙，以时亟起。
莽遂固辞。
太后复使长信太仆闳承制召莽，莽固称疾。
左右白太后，宜勿夺莽意，但条孔光等，莽乃肯起。
太后下诏曰： 太傅博山侯光宿卫四世，世为傅相，忠考仁笃，行义显著，建议定策，益封万户，以光为太师，与四辅之政。
车骑将军安阳侯舜积累仁孝，使迎中山王，折冲万里，功德茂著，益封万户，以舜为太保。
translation: 
Or is he different because he is my closest relative?
So the ministers vigorously stated: Wang Mang's meritorious deeds brought about the same auspicious omen as the Duke of Zhou assisted King Cheng of Zhou in obtaining the white pheasant. They were separated by thousands of years, but the fortunes were the same.
The law of a sage emperor is that if a minister has made great achievements, he can get a good title during his lifetime, so the Duke of Zhou can use the title of Zhou as his title when he is still alive.
Wang Mang had great merits in stabilizing the country and stabilizing the Han Dynasty. He should be granted the title Anmo Gong, increase the number of households, and stipulate that after his death, his descendants would be granted the same title as him when they inherit the title. This is far in line with the example of Zhou Gong when Zhou became king, and more recent is like the precedent of Huo Guang. Wang Mang should be given equal rewards in order to comply with the will of God.
The Queen Mother ordered the minister to prepare for this matter.
Wang Mang wrote a letter saying: I, Kong Guang, Wang Shun, Zhen Feng, and Zhen Han have jointly agreed on the plan to establish a new emperor. Now I hope to only list the merits and rewards of Kong Guang and others, and leave aside Wang Mang, and do not compare with them.
Zhen Han reported to the Empress Dowager in her letter to Shao, saying: "There is no partiality or favouritism. The righteous path followed by the late king is broad and flat."
There should be no partiality towards people who are related to each other.
You have contributed to the peace and stability of the country, and you cannot withhold praise just because you are a close relative.
I hope you won't refuse.
Wang Mang wrote another resignation letter.
The Queen Mother ordered the visitor to guide Wang Mang to the side room of the main hall to wait, but Wang Mang refused to go to the hall because of illness.
The Queen Mother asked the minister to order Yao Xun to order him: "You are declining because the court wants to commend you for your merits and rewards. You have a heavy responsibility and have to go. You should go to the court as soon as possible to receive the title."
Wang Mang refused firmly.
The Queen Mother also asked Wang Hong, a servant of Changxin, to summon Wang Mang with the imperial edict, but Wang Mang still insisted on not going out because of his illness.
The ministers on the left and right reported to the Queen Mother not to go against Wang Mang's wishes, but only to list the merits and rewards of Kong Guang and others, so that Wang Mang would be willing to go to the court to govern.
The Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: Taifu Boshanhou Kongguang stayed and guarded the emperors of the four dynasties. He had served as Taifu and Prime Minister for several generations. He was loyal and filial, benevolent and righteous, and his behavior was in line with the standards. He was famous throughout the world. He proposed to make a decision to support the new emperor, increase the fiefdom by 10,000 households, and appointed Kong Guang as the Grand Master to participate in the decision-making of the four assistants.
The Chariot and Cavalry General Anyang Marquis Wang Shun had a long history of benevolence, righteousness, loyalty and filial piety. He was sent to welcome the King of Zhongshan and repel the enemy troops. He traveled thousands of miles and made outstanding achievements in morality. He added 10,000 households to the fiefdom and appointed Wang Shun as the Taibao.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
左将军光禄勋丰宿卫三世，忠信仁笃，使迎中山王，辅导共养，以安宗庙，封丰为广阳侯，食邑五千户，以丰为少傅。
皆授四辅之职，畴其爵邑，各赐第一区。
侍中奉车都尉邯宿卫勤劳，建议定策，封邯为承阳侯，食邑二千四百户。
四人既受赏，莽尚未起，群臣复上言： 莽虽克让，朝所宜章，以时加赏，明重元功，无使百僚元元失望。
太后乃下诏曰： 大司马新都侯莽三世为三公，典周公之职，建万世策，功德为忠臣宗，化流海内，远人慕义，越裳氏重译献白雉。
其以召陵，新息二县户二万八千益封莽，复其后嗣，畴其爵邑，封功如萧相国。
以莽为太傅，干四辅之事，号曰安汉公。
以故萧相国甲第为安汉公第，定著于令，传之无穷。
于是莽为惶恐，不得已而起受策。
策曰： 汉危无嗣，而公定之；四辅之职，三公之任，而公干之；群僚众位，而公宰之；功德茂著，宗庙以安，盖白雉之瑞，周成象焉。
故赐嘉号曰安汉公，辅翼于帝，期于致平，毋违朕意。
莽受太傅安汉公号，让还益封畴爵邑事，云愿须百姓家给，然后加赏。
群公复争，太后诏曰： 公自期百姓家给，是以听之。
其令公奉、舍人赏赐皆倍故。
百姓家给人足，大司徒、大司空以闻。
莽复让不受，而建言宜立诸侯王后及高祖以来功臣子孙，大者封侯，或赐爵关内侯食邑，然后及诸在位，各有第序。
translation: 
The general of the left, Guang Luxun, Zhen Feng, served and guarded the emperors of three dynasties. He was loyal, honest, and benevolent. He sent him to welcome the King of Zhongshan, assist in persuading him, and stabilize the country. Zhen Feng was granted the title of Marquis of Guangyang, with a settlement of 5,000 households, and Zhen Feng was appointed as the young master.
All three were granted the position of fourth assistant, and their descendants could inherit their titles and fiefs in the same way, and each of them was rewarded with a mansion.
Zhen Han, the captain of the chariot captain, worked hard as a guard and worked hard. He proposed to support the new emperor and granted Zhen Han the title of Marquis of Chengyang, with a settlement of 2,000 and 400 households.
Four people had already received awards, and Wang Mang had not yet come to the court to manage the affairs of the country. The courtiers reported again: Although Wang Mang was self-denial and modest, the court should still commend him and increase the awards in a timely manner to show that the court valued the minister who made the most contribution and not to disappoint the civil and military officials and the common people.
The Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: Wang Mang, the lord of the new capital of Sima, served as the three princes of the three dynasties, inherited the responsibilities of Zhou Gong, and formulated strategies to ensure long-term peace and stability for future generations. His merits and virtues were admired by loyal ministers, and his teachings spread throughout the country. People in distant lands also admired his righteousness, so the Yue Shang family came to offer white pheasants.
Twenty-eight thousand households in Zhaoling and Xinxi counties should be granted to Wang Mang, exempting his descendants from taxes and corvee, stipulating that his descendants can inherit his title and fiefdom unchanged, and the rewards should be in accordance with Xiao Xiangguo's rules.
Wang Mang was appointed as Taifu, in charge of the affairs of the Fourth Assistant, and his title was Anhan Gong.
Take the former luxurious residence of Xiao Xiangguo as the residence of Duke Anhan, and put these into writing to spread them to infinity.
So Wang Mang looked frightened and had no choice but to go to court and accept the order.
The policy book reads: The Han Dynasty is in crisis and there is no successor to the throne. It is you who have stabilized the court; you have assumed the duties of the four assistants and the three public officials; you have controlled the civil and military officials: you have outstanding merits and deeds, and the country has been stabilized because of you. It seems that the auspicious sign of the white pheasant you invited is the scene of Duke Zhou assisting King Cheng of Zhou.
Therefore, I give you the beautiful title of An Mo Gong, assist the emperor, hope to bring peace to the world, and do not violate my will.
Wang Mang accepted the titles of Taifu and An Mogong, and resigned from the increased fiefdom and the rewards that stipulated hereditary titles and fiefdoms for his descendants. He said that he was willing to wait until the common people had enough food and clothing before accepting such rewards.
The ministers argued again, and the Queen Mother went down to Shao and said: Duke Anhan himself proposed that every family with the same surname should be self-sufficient for a period of time, so she listened to his opinion.
His salary, private staff, and rewards should be doubled.
When the people had enough food and clothing, Da Situ and Da Sikong reported it.
Wang Mang declined again and did not accept it, but suggested that the princes, their descendants, and the descendants of the heroes since Emperor Gaozu should be established as princes with great achievements, or given the title of marquis in Guan Nei and the fiefdom of collecting taxes. All the princes and ministers in office should be rewarded according to their grades.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
上尊宗庙，增加礼乐；下惠士民鳏寡，恩泽之政无所不施。
语在《平纪》。
莽既说众庶，又欲专断，知太后厌政，乃风公卿奏言： 往者，吏以功次迁至二千石，及州部所举茂材异等吏，率多不称，宜皆见安汉公。
又太后不宜亲省小事。
令太后下诏曰： 皇帝幼年，朕且统政，比加元服。
今众事烦碎，朕春秋高，精气不堪，殆非所以安躬体而育养皇帝者也。
故选忠贤，立四辅，群下劝职，永以康宁。
孔子曰： 巍巍乎，舜、禹之有天下而不与焉！
自今以来，惟封爵乃以闻。他事，安汉公、四辅平决。
州牧、二千石及茂材吏初除奏事者，辄引入至近署对安汉公，考故官，问新职，以知其称否。
于是莽人人延问，致密恩意，厚加赠送，其不合指，显奏免之，权与人主侔矣。
莽欲以虚名说太后，白言： 新承前孝哀丁、傅奢侈之后，百姓未赡者多，太后宜且衣缯练，颇损膳，以视天下。
莽因上书，愿出钱百万，献田三十顷，付大司农助给贫民。
于是公卿皆慕效焉。
莽师群臣奏言： 陛下春秋尊，久衣重练，减御膳，诚非所以辅精气，育皇帝，安宗庙也。
臣莽数叩头省户下，白争未见许。
今幸赖陛下德泽，间者风雨时，甘露降，神芝生，蓂荚、朱草、嘉禾、休征同时并至。
臣莽等不胜大愿，愿陛下爱精休神，阔略思虑，遵帝王之常服，复太官之法膳，使臣子各得尽欢心，备共养。
translation: 
On the one hand, they respected their ancestors and increased the etiquette and band size during ancestor worship; on the other hand, they extended favors to scholars, commoners, widowers and other helpless old people, and all policies of benevolence and good deeds were implemented.
These words are recorded in "Hu Di Ben Ji".
After Wang Mang won the favor of the public, he wanted to be dictatorial. Knowing that the Queen Mother disliked government affairs, he hinted to the princes and ministers to write a memorial saying: In the past, officials who were promoted to two thousand stones based on merit, and officials who were recommended by the state department as outstanding scholars, were mostly incompetent. They should all come to see Duke Anhan and accept the assessment.
Furthermore, it is not appropriate for the Queen Mother to personally interfere with trivial matters.
Let the Queen Mother issue an edict saying: The emperor is still young, and I will be in charge of the government for the time being until the emperor comes of age and is crowned.
Nowadays, many government affairs are complicated and trivial. I am old and unable to handle them mentally and physically. This is probably not the way to maintain my body and educate and train the emperor.
Therefore, we must choose loyal and capable people and establish four assistants to ensure that all officials are loyal to their duties and maintain the stability and peace of the country forever.
Confucius said: How great it is that when Yu Shun and Xia Yu governed the world, they appointed virtuous ministers to achieve their success without personally participating in their affairs!
From now on, only the matter of knighthood can be reported, and other matters will be evaluated and decided by Anhan Gong and Sifu.
When officials of the state shepherd, 2,000-stone rank, and scholar-born officials were required to report matters when they were first appointed to their posts, they were brought to the public office near the palace to report to Duke Anhan, inspect their original official duties, and inquire about their newly appointed positions to know whether they were qualified for the job.
So Wang Mang interviewed and questioned these officials one by one, tried his best to express his care and love, and gave many gifts. If he didn't like them, he would clearly petition to be removed from his official position. His power would soon be equal to that of the emperor.
Wang Mang planned to use false reputations to please the Queen Mother, and said in a memorial that after the Ding family and the Fu family were extravagant and wasteful during the reign of Emperor Xin Chengxiao, the people would not be able to keep warm and full. The Queen Mother should temporarily wear silk fabrics without patterns and slightly reduce the delicacies of mountains and seas to show the world.
Immediately afterwards, Wang Mang wrote another letter, willing to spend one million dollars and donate thirty hectares of land to Da Sinong to help the poor people.
So the princes and ministers all followed his example.
Wang Mang led the ministers to report: Your Majesty is old and has been wearing rough silk for a long time. Reducing dishes is indeed not a way to maintain physical and mental health, educate the emperor, and stabilize the country.
Wang Mang, the minister, went to the palace to kowtow to the provincial department many times and tried his best to report, but was not allowed.
Now relying on Your Majesty's kindness, the weather has been favorable recently, nectar has fallen from the sky, Ganoderma lucidum has appeared, and yellow pods, red grass, golden harvests and auspicious omens have arrived together.
The greatest wish of your Majesty, Wang Mang, and others is that your Majesty will conserve your energy, recuperate your mind, broaden your mind, reduce your thoughts, wear the royal clothes, and restore the emperor's usual meals prescribed by the eunuchs, so that your ministers can show their love to you and offer you the items of support.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
惟哀省察！
莽又令太后下诏曰： 盖闻母后之义，思不出乎门阈。
国不蒙佑，皇帝年在襁褓，未任亲政，战战兢兢，惧于宗庙之不安。
国家之大纲，微朕孰当统之？
是以孔子见南子，周公居摄，盖权时也。
勤身极思，忧劳未绥，故国奢则视之以俭，矫枉者过其正，而朕不身帅，将谓天下何！
夙夜梦想，五谷丰熟，百姓家给，比皇帝加元服，委政而授焉。
今诚未皇于轻靡而备味，庶几与百僚有成，其勖之哉！
每有水旱，莽辄素食，左右以白。
太后遣使者诏莽曰： 闻公菜食，忧民深矣。
今秋幸熟，公勤于职，以时食肉，爱身为国。
莽念中国已平，唯四夷未有异，乃遣使者赍黄金、币、帛，重赂匈奴单于，使上书言： 闻中国讥二名，故名囊知牙斯今更名知，慕从圣制。
又遣王昭君女须卜居次入待。
所以诳耀媚事太后，下至旁侧长御，方故万端。
莽既尊重，欲以女配帝为皇后，以固其权，奏言： 皇帝即位三年，长秋宫未建，液廷媵未充。
乃者，国家之难，本从亡嗣，配取不正。
请考论《五经》，定取礼，正十二女之义，以广继嗣。
博采二王后及周公、孔子世列侯在长安者適子女。
事下有司，上众女名，王氏女多在选中者。
莽恐其与已女争，即上言： 身亡德，子材下，不宜与众女并采。
太后以为至诚，乃下诏曰： 王氏女，朕之外家，其勿采。
translation: 
I hope you will be compassionate and considerate!
Wang Mang also asked the Queen Mother to write a letter to Shao, saying: I heard that the Queen Mother's rule is that ideological activities should not exceed the boundaries of the palace.
The country has not been blessed by God, and the emperor is still young and cannot govern himself. I am frightened and cautious, fearing that the country will not be peaceful.
Without me, who would be in charge of the country's supreme power?
Therefore, Confucius met Nanzi and Duke Zhou took charge of the government, which was based on the needs of the situation at that time.
I have exhausted my body, exhausted my mind, worried and toiled, and have no peace of mind. Therefore, when the world advocates luxury, I use frugal style to show the world that correcting deviations often requires more than the limit. If I don't take the lead personally, what will the people of the world do?
I dream about a good harvest day and night, so that every household of the common people can have enough food and clothing. When the emperor comes of age, I will hand over the government to him.
Now I really don’t have time to enjoy soft clothes and delicious food. I hope to achieve something with the officials, so I should encourage you!
Whenever there was a flood or drought, Wang Mang would only eat vegetables and his attendants would report the situation to the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother sent an envoy to Wang Mang and said: I heard that you only eat vegetables. You are too worried about the suffering of the people.
Fortunately, the harvest this year is abundant. As you are so diligent and dedicated, you should eat some meat on time. Please take good care of your body for the sake of the country.
Wang Mang considered that the Central Plains had been stabilized and that only the Yi tribes in the four directions had not changed much, so he sent an envoy with gold and property, generous gifts to the Xiongnu Chanyu, and asked him to write a letter saying: I heard that the Central Plains ridiculed double names. My original name was Nangzhi Yasi, but now I changed my name to Zhi to express my admiration and compliance with the system of the Central Plains.
Wang Zhaojun's daughter was also sent to serve the Queen Mother.
In order to deceive, confuse and flatter the Queen Mother, as well as the eunuchs and maids around her, Wang Mang's methods were so varied.
After Wang Mang became a powerful emperor, he wanted to give his daughter to Emperor Ping as a queen in order to consolidate his power, so he wrote to the emperor: "It has been three years since the emperor ascended the throne, but he has not yet established a queen, and he has not provided enough concubines."
In the past, the country's crises were caused by the lack of heirs and improper marriages.
Please examine and apply the theory of the Five Classics to formulate the principles of marriage etiquette and correct twelve daughters, in order to give birth to more heirs.
The descendants of the Shang and Zhou royal families and the descendants of the principal wives of the princes in Chang'an during the Zhou Gong and Confucius eras were widely selected and betrothed to their children.
This matter was handed over to the officials in charge and a list of many women was submitted. Many daughters of the Wang family were on the candidate list.
Wang Mang was afraid that they would compete with his own daughters, so he wrote a memorial saying: "I have no virtue myself, and my daughter's appearance is inferior. It is not suitable to be selected at the same time as other women."
The Queen Mother thought that he was sincere, so she wrote to Shao Shu: "The daughters of the Wang family are my natal family, so don't choose them."


Chunk 8: 
original: 
庶民、诸生、郎吏以上守阙上书者日千余人，公卿大夫或诣廷中，或伏省户下，咸言： 明诏圣德巍巍如彼，安汉公盛勋堂堂若此，今当立后，独奈何废公女？
天下安所归命！愿得公女为天下母。
莽遣长安以下分部晓止公卿及诸生，而上书者愈甚。
太后不得已，听公卿采莽女。
莽复自白： 宜博选众女。
公卿争曰： 不宜采诸女以贰正统。 莽白： 愿见女。
太后遣长乐少府、宗正、尚书令纳采见女，还奏言： 公女渐渍德化，有窈窕之容，宜承天序，奉祭祀。
有诏遣大司徒、大司空策告宗庙，杂加卜筮，皆曰： 兆遇金水王相，封遇父母得位，所谓 康强 之占， 逢吉 之符也。
信乡侯佟上言： 《春秋》，天子将娶于纪，则褒纪子称侯，安汉公国未称古制。
事下有司，皆曰： 古者天子封后父百里，尊而不臣，以重宗庙，孝之至也。
佟言应礼，可许。
请以新野田二万五千六百顷益封莽，满百里。
莽谢曰： 臣莽子女诚不足以配至尊，复听众议，益封臣莽。
伏自惟念，得托肺腑，获爵士，如使子女诚能奉称圣德，臣莽国邑足以共朝贡，不须复加益地之宠。愿归所益。
太后许之。
有司奏： 故事，聘皇后黄金二万斤，为钱二万万。
莽深辞让，受四千万，而以其三千三百万予十一媵家。
群臣复言： 今皇后受骋，逾群妾亡几。
有诏，复益二千三百万，合为三千万。
莽复以其千万分予九族贫者。
translation: 
More than a thousand people, including common people, Confucian scholars, and magistrates and above, waited in front of the palace gate to submit letters every day. Some princes, ministers, and officials came to the court, and some knelt in front of the provincial departments. They all said: The holy virtues shown in the edict are so noble, and the great achievements of Duke Anhan are so obvious. Now when it comes to choosing a queen, why should we exclude Duke Anhan's daughter?
Where are the people of the country going? We hope that Duke Anhan’s daughter will be the mother of the country.
Wang Mang sent subordinate officials below the rank of chief historian to issue instructions in batches to dissuade the princes, ministers and Confucian scholars, but more people wrote letters to request.
The Queen Mother had no choice but to let the princes and ministers choose Wang Mang's daughter.
Wang Mang himself said: We should choose widely among many women.
The princes and ministers argued that it was inappropriate to choose a queen among all the women, which would disturb the orthodoxy. The position of queen belonged to An Mogong's daughter. Wang Mang said: He is willing to let his daughter come out to meet him.
The Queen Mother sent Changle Palace's Shaofu, Zong Zheng, and Shangshu Ling to deliver betrothal gifts and make a blind date. They came back and reported: An Mo Gong's daughter has been educated in morality and conduct for a long time. She has a beautiful appearance and can continue the royal family and take over the priesthood.
In addition, Xia Shao sent Da Situ and Da Sikong to the ancestral temple to pray and use various methods to divine and predict good and bad fortunes. They all said: The omen meets the golden and prosperous water element, because gold generates water, and the hexagram means Tai hexagram, which indicates that the parents will be in the throne. This is the so-called "happiness and strength" omen, and a symbol of good luck for the descendants.
Tong Shangzou of Xinsi Nengxing: According to the "Spring and Autumn Annals", the emperor was about to marry the queen from Niu State, so he promoted the monarch of Wei State from viscount to marquis. The feudal state of An Yigong did not conform to the ancient system.
The matter was brought to the officials in charge for discussion, and they all said: In ancient times, the emperor rewarded the queen's father with a land of one hundred miles each, respecting him instead of treating him as a minister, thereby showing that he valued the ancestral temple. This is the highest filial piety.
Liu Tong's words are in line with etiquette and can be approved.
Please grant Wang Mang 25,600 hectares of land in Xinye County, making up the land by 100 li in length and width.
Wang Ling declined and said: "My daughter, Wang Ling, is really not worthy of the most noble monarch. Now I have listened to everyone's opinions and granted land to me."
I thought to myself that if I could be listed as a close relative of the emperor and obtain a title and land, if my daughter could really match the character of the emperor, the taxes from my fiefdom would be enough to pay tribute to the emperor, and there would be no need to add more fiefdoms. I am willing to return the increased fiefdom.
The Queen Mother agreed to him.
The official in charge reported that according to custom, the betrothal gift for hiring a queen is twenty thousand catties of gold and twenty million in silver.
Wang Mang repeatedly declined and accepted 40 million, but gave 33 million of it to 11 families who would accompany their daughters in marriage.
The ministers also said: Now the betrothal gift accepted by the queen is not much more than that of the concubines.
The Queen Mother also issued an order to increase the betrothal gift by another 23 million, making the total amount 30 million.
Wang Ling distributed 10 million of it to poor families among the nine tribes.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
陈崇时为大司徒司直，与张敞孙竦相善。
竦者博通士，为崇草奏，称莽功德，崇奏之，曰：
窃见安汉公自初束脩，值世俗隆奢丽之时，蒙两宫厚骨肉之宠，被诸父赫赫之光，财饶势足，亡所牾意，然而折节行仁，克心履礼，拂世矫俗，确然特立；恶衣恶食，陋车驽马，妃匹无二，闺门之内，孝友之德，众莫不闻；清静乐道，温良下士，惠于故旧，笃于师友。
孔子曰： 未若贫而乐，富而好礼 ，公之谓矣。
及为侍中，故定陵侯淳于长有大逆罪，公不敢私，建白诛讨。
周公诛管、蔡，季子鸩叔牙，公之谓矣。
是以孝成皇帝命公大司马，委以国统。
孝哀即位，高昌侯董宏希指求美，造作二统，公手劾之，以定大纲。
建白定陶太后不宜在乘舆幄坐，以明国体。
《诗》曰 柔亦不茹，刚亦不吐，不侮鳏寡，不畏强圉 ，公之谓矣。
深执谦退，推诚让位。
定陶太后欲立僣号，惮彼面剌幄坐之义，佞惑之雄，朱博之畴，惩此长、宏手劾之事，上下一心，谗贼交乱，诡辟制度，遂成篡号，斥逐仁贤，诛残戚属，而公被胥、原之诉，远去就国，朝政崩坏，纲纪废驰，危亡之祸，不隧如发。
《诗》云 人之云亡，邦国殄顇， 公之谓矣。
translation: 
Chen Chong was appointed as the Grand Situ Sizhi at this time and had a friendly relationship with Zhang Chang's grandson Zhang Chang.
Zhang Song was an erudite scholar. He drafted a memorial for Chen Chong, praising Wang Mang's merits. Chen Chong submitted the memorial and wrote:
I saw that Duke Anhan had been favored by Emperor Cheng and the Empress Dowager in favor of luxury since he became an official. He was favored by his uncles and honored by his uncles. His family was rich and powerful. No one could go against his will. However, he was able to lower his status and promote benevolence. He restrains his selfish desires, abides by etiquette, goes against the world's customs, corrects customs, and is resolute in his own way; he wears coarse clothes, eats poor food, rides in a simple car, drives with a bad horse, has no second spouse, and within the family, he respects his elders and is friendly to his peers. Everyone knows that he is indifferent to fame and wealth, takes pleasure in observing the Tao, is gentle and kind, treats scholars humbly, shows kindness and care to old friends, and is very loyal to teachers and friends.
Confucius once said, "It is better to be poor and happy, or to be rich and love etiquette." This praise was given to An Mogong.
When he became a servant, Chunyu Chang, the original Marquis of Dingling, committed a crime of treason and immorality. Duke Anhan did not dare to favor his personal relatives, so he reported and recommended that he be punished.
Duke Zhou had Uncle Guan killed and Uncle Cai exiled. Ji Zi poisoned Uncle Ya with poisonous wine. Duke An Mo was such a person.
Therefore, Emperor Xiaocheng appointed Duke Anhan as Grand Sima and entrusted him with the power of the country.
When Emperor Xiaoai ascended the throne, Gaochang Hou Dong Hong catered to the emperor's wishes and pursued fame. He wanted Ding Ji to be the empress dowager, creating a two-throne system. Anhan Gong personally impeached him, thus confirming the court policy.
It was suggested that the Queen Mother of Dingtao should not sit in the Queen Mother's curtain, thus confirming the general hierarchy of the imperial court.
"The Book of Songs" says: "Don't take advantage of the soft, don't be afraid of the hard, don't bully the widowers, don't be afraid of tough opponents, the one who praises him is Anhan Gong."
With an attitude of humility, he sincerely offered the position of Da Sima.
The Empress Dowager of Dingtao wanted to establish a title beyond her status, and was afraid that he would accuse her face to face that she should not sit under the Empress Dowager's curtain, so she used sweet words to confuse and deceive Zhu Bo and others. They were wary of the past incident of Chun Yuchang and Dong Hong being impeached by him. He plotted tricks, disobeyed and destroyed the system, thus achieving the title of stealing; he excluded and expelled benevolent men and wise men, and killed and injured royal relatives. As a result, Duke Anhan was slandered like Wu Zixu and Qu Yuan.
The Book of Songs says that if a wise man runs away and cannot be retained, the country will suffer. The one who praises him is Anhan Gong.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
当此之时，官亡储主，董贤据重，加以傅氏有女之援，皆自知得罪天下，结仇中山，则必同忧，断金相翼，借假遗诏，频用赏诛，先除所惮，急引所附，遂诬往冤，更惩远属，事势张见，其不难矣！
赖公方入，即时退贤，及其党亲。
当此之时，公远独见之明，奋亡前之威，盱衡厉色，振扬武怒，乘其未坚，厌其未发，震起机动，敌人摧折，虽有贲、育不及持剌，虽有樗里不及回知，虽有鬼谷不及造次，是故董贤丧其魂魄，遂自绞杀。
人不还踵，日不移晷，霍然四除，更为宁朝。
非陛下莫引立公，非公莫克此祸。
《诗》云 惟师尚父，时惟鹰扬，亮彼武王， 孔子曰 敏则有功， 公之谓矣。
于是公乃白内故泗水相丰、斄令邯，与大司徒光、车骑将军舜建定社稷，奉节东迎，皆以功德受封益土，为国名臣。
《书》曰 知人则哲 ，公之谓也。
公卿咸叹公德，同盛公勋，皆以周公为比，宜赐号安汉公，益封二县，公皆不受。
传曰申包胥不受存楚之报，晏平仲不受辅齐之封，孔子曰 能以礼让为国乎何有 ，公之谓也。
将为皇帝定立妃后，有司上名，公女为首，公深辞让，迫不得已然后受诏。
父子之亲天性自然，欲其荣贵甚于为身，皇后之尊侔于天子，当时之会千载希有，然而公惟国家之统，揖大福之恩，事事谦退，动而固辞。
《书》曰 舜让于德不嗣， 公之谓矣。
自公受策，以至于今，亹亹翼翼，日新其德，增修雅素以命下国，逡俭隆约以矫世俗，割财损家以帅群下，弥躬执乎以逮公卿，教子尊学以隆国化。
translation: 
At this time, there was no heir to the throne in the palace, Dong Xian usurped important positions, and the Fu family had the support of their daughter. They all knew that they had offended the people of the world and had enmity with the King of Zhongshan, so they would definitely share the same worries and work together to help each other. With the help of false entrustment, he frequently used the power of rewards and punishments. He first eliminated the people he was afraid of, quickly activated those who relied on them, then framed his former enemies, and then recruited estranged relatives in the royal family. The development of things was clear, and this was not difficult to do.
Thanks to Anhan Gong who immediately entered the court and promptly drove away Dong Xian, his followers and cronies.
It was at this time that Duke Anhan used his unique wisdom to display his unstoppable power. He raised his eyebrows, showed a stern look, and mobilized his fierce momentum. While they were not yet stable, he suppressed them before they could move. Like the sound of thunder and the triggering of a crossbow, the enemy was defeated. Even warriors such as Meng Ben and Xia Yu had no time to stab with a spear. Even though they were known as the wise men, they were defeated. Chuilizi didn't expect it, and even if there was Guiguzi, he couldn't deal with it in time, so Dong Xian was so devastated that he hanged himself.
Before people could turn their heels or move their figures, the world was at peace and the court was at peace.
If it weren't for His Majesty, no one would be able to activate Duke Anhan, and if it weren't for Duke Anhan, no one would be able to stop this disaster.
The Book of Songs says that only Lu Wang, Grand Master’s cousin, Wu Yi flew like an eagle at that time and assisted King Wu to destroy the Shang Dynasty. Confucius said that only by responding quickly can success be achieved. This was praised by Anhan Gong.
So Anhan Gong suggested that Zhen Feng, the former prime minister of Sishui, Zhen Han, the magistrate of Youxian County, together with the great Situ Kongguang and the chariot general Wang Shun, discuss the country's plans and go east to welcome the new emperor with the imperial talisman. They all accepted the title based on their merits and virtues, increased their fiefdoms, and became famous ministers of the country.
"The Book of Books" says that being able to identify talents is wisdom, and the person who praised this was Anhan Gong.
The princes and ministers all praised Duke Anhan's virtues and praised Duke Han's achievements together. They all compared him with Duke Zhou and should be rewarded with the title of Duke Anhan and the increase of the fiefdom of two counties, but Duke Anhan did not accept it.
Ancient books say that Shen Baoxu did not accept the reward for preserving Chu Li, and Lei Mangjian did not accept the reward for assisting Duke Ji of Qi. Confucius said that if you can govern the country with courtesy and humility, what difficulties will there be? The one who praised An Mo Gong.
When the emperor was about to select a concubine, the competent authority sent a list, and An Mo Gong's daughter was listed first. An Mo Gong repeatedly declined and had no choice but to accept the edict.
The affection between a father and his children is an innate human trait and occurs naturally. He wants his children to enjoy the glory and wealth more urgently than he does himself. The Queen's status is equal to that of the Emperor. The opportunity was once in a lifetime, but Duke Anhan thought of the country's great authority and refused to accept Dafu's favor. He gave in to everything humbly and resolutely refused at every turn.
The Book of Books says that when Emperor Shun abdicated his throne to Yu the Great, he thought that his virtues were too shallow to carry on Emperor Yao's legacy, so the one he praised was Duke Anhan.
From the time An Mo Gong accepted the order until now, he has been diligent, respectful and morally improving every day; he further improved his ordinary conduct and used it to order the princes to enfeoff the country; he maintained frugality and advocated economy to correct the social atmosphere; he gave away money and reduced his family property to set an example for the ministers; he upheld justice and spread it to the princes and ministers; he taught his children to value learning and used it to revitalize the country's education.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
僮奴衣布，马不秣谷，食饮之用，不过凡庶。
《诗》云 温温恭人，如集于木 ，孔子曰：食无求饱，居无求安， 公之谓矣。
克身自约，籴食逮给，物物卬市，日阕亡储。
又上书归孝哀皇帝所益封邑，入钱献田，殚尽旧业，为众倡始。
于是小大乡和，承风从化，外则王公列侯，内则帷幄侍御，翕然同时，各竭所有，或入金钱，或献田亩，以振贫穷，收赡不足者。
昔令尹子文朝不及夕，鲁公仪子不菇园葵，公之谓矣。
开门延士，下及白屋，娄省朝政，综管众治，亲见牧守以下，考迹雅素，审知白黑。
《诗》云 夙夜匪解，以事一人 ，《易》曰 终日乾乾，夕惕若厉 ，公之谓矣。
比三世为三公，再奉送大行，秉冢宰职，填安国家，四海辐凑，靡不得所。
《书》曰： 纳于大麓，列风雷雨不迷 ，公之谓矣。
此皆上世之所鲜，禹、稷之所难，而公包其终始，一以贯之，可谓备矣！
是以三年之间，化行如神，嘉瑞叠累，岂非陛下知人之效，得贤之致哉！
故非独君之受命也，臣之生亦不虚矣。
是以伯禹锡玄圭，周公受郊祀，盖以达天之使，不敢擅天之功也。
揆公德行，为天下纪；观公功勋，为万世基。
基成而赏不配，纪立而褒不副，诚非所以厚国家，顺天心也。
translation: 
His servants wore linen clothes, his horses were fed without grain, and the cost of food and drink was no more than that of ordinary people.
The Book of Songs says that a gentle and respectful person is like a bird perched on a tree. Confucius said that people who eat do not seek to be full and live without seeking comfort. The one who praised Anhan was Duke Anhan.
Restrain and restrain yourself, buy food sporadically, only enough for consumption, rely on the market to supply all kinds of items, use them up on the same day, and never save up.
He also wrote a memorial to return the fiefdoms increased by Emperor Xiaoai, paid money, donated land, exhausted the original family property, and acted as the initiator.
So all walks of life responded one after another, accepted the influence, and followed suit. The princes and princes outside, and the palace guards and attendants who were wrapped in bread, all coordinated, and everyone did their best, some paid money, some donated fields, helped the poor, and adopted people who lacked food and clothing.
Once upon a time, Ziwen, the magistrate of the Chu State, destroyed his house in vain to relieve the Chu State's crisis, so he could not take care of breakfast but dinner. The prime minister of Lu State, Gong Yizi, refused to eat the sunflower seeds wrapped in his own garden, so as not to take away the benefits of the gardeners. An Mo Gong was such a person.
Open doors to receive educated people, down to ordinary people living in thatched huts, constantly streamline the military and streamline administration, comprehensively manage many government affairs, personally meet with officials below the prefectural pastor and county magistrate, assess and verify their usual moral conduct, and carefully identify good and evil deeds.
"The Book of Songs" says: "Serve the emperor day and night without hesitation." The "Book of Changes" says: "Continue to strive for self-improvement all day long, but still be frightened at night to prevent disaster. Duke Anhan is such a person."
He served as the third official for three consecutive generations, buried the Daxing Zao Emperor twice, took charge of government affairs, and stabilized the country. The government and the public gathered together, like spokes on the axle, and each had his own place.
"The Book of Books" says that he was placed in the position of governing all opportunities, and he would not be confused even if he encountered political storms, thunder and lightning. This praise was given to Anhan Gong.
The above-mentioned things are rare in previous generations and difficult to achieve by Xia Yu and Hou Ji. However, Anhan Gong started well and ended well, and this spirit runs throughout, which can be called perfect!
Therefore, in the past three years, education has been popular like gods, and auspicious signs have been layered upon layers. Isn't this the result of His Majesty's ability to recognize the effectiveness of talents and obtain the assistance of virtuous people?
Therefore, chasing not only shows that the monarch has accepted the destiny, but also shows that the life of the virtuous minister has not been wasted.
Therefore, Dayu was rewarded with black jade, the ritual vessel used in the ceremony, and Zhou Gong enjoyed the courtesy of Yajiao Sacrifice. This was a gift from heaven to talented people to assist the king. The king should express his talents and not dare to be greedy for heaven's merits.
Observing Anhan Gong's morality and conduct can serve as a model for the world; observing Anhan Gong's meritorious deeds can lay the foundation for future generations.
The achievements are not commensurate with the rewards; the examples are set but the praises are inconsistent. This is indeed not the way to value the country's compliance with God's will.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
高皇帝褒赏元功，相国萧何邑户既倍，又蒙殊礼，奏事不名，入殿不趋，封其亲属十有余人。
乐善无厌，班赏亡遴，苟有一策，即必爵之，是故公孙戎位在充郎，选繇旄头，一明樊哙，封二千户。
孝文皇帝褒赏绛侯，益封万户，赐黄金五千斤。
孝武皇帝恤录军功，裂三万户以封卫青，青子三人，或在襁褓，皆为通侯。
孝宣皇帝显著霍光，增户命畴，封者三人，延及兄孙。
夫绛侯即因汉藩之固，杖朱虚之鲠，依诸将之递，据相扶之势，其事虽丑，要不能遂。
霍光即席常任之重，乘大胜之威，未尝遭时不行，陷假离朝，朝之执事，亡非同类，割断历久，统政旷世，虽曰有功，所因亦易，然犹有计策不审过征之累。
及至青、戎，摽末之功，一言之劳，然犹皆蒙丘山之赏。
课功绛、霍，造之与因也；比于青、戎，地之与天也。
而公又有宰治之效，乃当上与伯禹、周公等盛齐隆，兼其褒赏，岂特与若云者同日而论哉？
然曾不得蒙青等之厚，臣诚惑之！
臣闻功亡原者赏不限，德亡首者褒不检。
是故成王之于周公也，度百里之限，越九锡之检，开七百里之宇，兼商、奄之民，赐以附庸殷民六族，大路大旂，封父之繁弱，夏后之璜，祝宗卜史，备物典策，官司彝器，白牡之牲，郊望之礼。
王曰： 叔父，建尔元子。
子父俱延拜而受之。
translation: 
Emperor Gao praised and rewarded the minister who had made the first contribution. The number of households in Xiao He's fiefdom had doubled, and he received special courtesy. He did not need to sign up to perform tasks, and did not need to walk quickly when he entered the palace. He rewarded more than ten of his relatives.
He likes to do good to others, is never satisfied, and is never stingy in awarding rewards. If you offer a good strategy, you will definitely be rewarded with a title. Therefore, Gongsun Rong, who is a Langguan, is selected from the charging knights. Once Fan Sha is persuaded to abandon the secret and turn to the light, he will be rewarded with two thousand households.
Emperor Xiaowen praised Jianghou Zhou Bo, granted ten thousand households fiefs, and rewarded him with five thousand catties of gold.
Emperor Xiaowu subsidized the meritorious soldiers and divided 30,000 households to reward Wei Qing. Wei Qing's three sons, some of whom were still in their infancy, were all made marquises.
Emperor Xiaoxuan prominently commended Huo Guang, increased the number of households and stipulated that his descendants should inherit his title intact. Three people were awarded the title, which was extended to his nephews and grandnephews.
Jianghou relied on the solid barriers of various vassals outside the Han Dynasty, relied on the uprightness of Zhu Xuhou and Liu Zhang internally, relied on the unity of the generals, and relied on the situation of mutual support. Therefore, although Lu's party members planned to cause rebellion and had sinister intentions, they always failed to succeed.
Huo Guang relied on holding important positions for a long time and taking advantage of the power of repeated victories. He never encountered unfavorable opportunities and was framed and dismissed from office. All the officials in charge of the various departments of the court were his comrades. They had held power for a long time and controlled the government for several generations. Although they had merit, they were obtained smoothly. However, there was still the disaster of poor planning and the wrong appointment of the king of Changyi.
As for Wei Qing and Gongsun Rong, it was just a matter of swordsmanship and a single sentence, but they still received high rewards.
Examining the merits of An Mo Gong, Jianghou and Huo Guang is the difference between creating the current situation and utilizing the current situation. Comparing An Han Gong with Wei Qing and Gongsun Rong, there is a world of difference.
And An Mogong has the ability to govern the country, so he should be respected as much as Dayu and Zhou Gong, and receive the same praise and rewards as them. How can he be compared with Jianghou, Huo Guang, Wei Qing, Gongsun Rong, etc.?
However, he failed to receive the generous reward that Wei Qing and others received. I was really puzzled!
I heard that there are no restrictions on rewards for unprecedented great achievements, and there are no restrictions on praise for the highest virtues.
Therefore, King Cheng of Zhou went beyond the boundaries of hundreds of miles vertically and horizontally and beyond the scope of Jiuxi, opened up the territory of the feudal state with a radius of 700 miles, merged the people of Shang and Yan, and gave him the Tiao, Xu, Xiao, Suo, Changshao, and Weishao clans of the Yin Dynasty as small vassal states. He will be rewarded with a large chariot and a large flag, a big bow from his father, and a jade emperor from the Xia Dynasty. He will be given the four officials of Taizhu, Taizong, Taibu, and Taishi. He will be rewarded with intact utensils and documents recording the laws and regulations. He will also be given hundreds of officials and sacrificial vessels. White male animals can be used for sacrifices, and rituals such as suburban sacrifices and watch sacrifices can be held.
King Cheng of Zhou said: Uncle, give your eldest son a kingdom and a land.
So Zhou Gong and his son both bowed down and accepted the reward.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
可谓不检亡原者矣。
非特止此，六子皆封。
《诗》曰： 亡言不雠，亡德不报。
报当知之，不如非报也。
近观行事，高祖之约非刘氏不王，然而番君得王长沙，下诏称忠，定著于令，明有大信不拘于制也。
春秋晋悼公用魏绛之策，诸夏服从。
郑伯献乐，悼公于是以半赐之。
绛深辞让，晋侯曰： 微子，寡人不能济河。
夫赏，国之典，不可废也。
子其受之。
魏绛于是有金石之乐，《春秋》善之，取其臣竭忠以辞功，君知臣以遂赏也。
今陛下既知公有周公功德，不行成王之褒赏，遂听公之固辞，不顾《春秋》之明义，则民臣何称，万世何述？
诚非所以为国也。
臣愚以为宜恢公国，令如周公，建立公子，令如伯禽，所赐之品，亦皆如之。
诸子之封，皆如六子。
即群下较然输忠，黎庶昭然感德。
臣诚输忠，民诚感德，则于王事何有？
唯陛下深惟祖宗之重，敬畏上天之戒，仪形虞、周之盛，敕尽伯禽之赐，无遴周公之报，令天法有设，后世有祖，天下幸甚！
太后以视群公，群公方议其事，会吕宽事起。
初，莽欲擅权，白太后： 前哀帝立，背恩义，自贵外家丁、傅，挠乱国家，几危社稷。
今帝以幼年复奉大宗，为成帝后，宜明一统之义，以戒前事，为后代法。
translation: 
This can be said to be a reward that is not limited to unprecedented achievements.
Not only these, the other six sons were also rewarded.
"The Book of Songs" says: No kind words are not accepted, no virtue is not unrewarded.
Rewards should be commensurate with the merits; anything that is not commensurate is not a reward.
Observing what has been done in modern times, Emperor Gaozu and the generals agreed that no one with a surname other than Liu would not be granted the title of king. However, Fanjun Wu Rui was granted the title of King of Changsha, and sent a letter to Shao to praise his loyalty, which was clearly recorded in the laws and regulations. This was to show that people with credibility could not be restricted by the system.
During the Spring and Autumn Period, Duke Ao of Jin adopted Wei Jiang's strategy, and all the vassal states in China submitted to him.
Uncle Zheng presented the musical instrument, and Duke Ao of Jin rewarded Wei Jiang with half of it.
Wei Jiang declined many times, but Jin Aogong said: Without you, my power cannot cross the Yellow River.
Rewards are a national system and cannot be abandoned.
You should accept it.
Wei Jiang then had musical instruments such as bells and chimes. The "Spring and Autumn Annals" praised this incident and believed that it was desirable for ministers to be loyal and refuse rewards, and for a monarch to recognize virtuous ministers and insist on rewarding them.
Now, since Your Majesty is well aware that Duke Anhan has the same merits as Duke Zhou, but does not praise and reward Duke Zhou as King Cheng of Zhou did, and instead listens to Duke Anhan's firm refusal and does not consider the principles of the Spring and Autumn Annals, then what will the people and ministers praise him, and what will future generations record?
Dismissal is indeed not the way to govern a country.
The foolish minister thought that the feudal kingdom of Anhan Gong should be expanded to make him the same as Zhou Gong, and the eldest son of Anhan Gong should be granted a feudal kingdom and established as a king, making him the same as Boqin. The gifts given to him were also like those of Duke Zhou.
The other sons of Duke Anhan should receive the same rewards as the six sons of Duke Zhou.
Then the officials will be obviously encouraged and loyal, and the people will be obviously enlightened and grateful.
If the ministers are really loyal to the court and the people are really grateful, then what else will be difficult for the government?
I hope that Your Majesty will be deeply grateful for the great trust of your ancestors, respectfully obey the warnings of heaven, imitate the generosity of Emperor Shun and King Cheng of Zhou, and fully give rewards like a bird, and not begrudge rewards like those given to the Duke of Zhou, so that the country's legal system can be improved and future generations will follow it. This is the great blessing of the world!
The Queen Mother showed the memorial to the ministers. The ministers were discussing the Japanese incident, and it happened that the Lu Kuan incident happened.
At the beginning, Wang Mang wanted to monopolize power and reported to the Queen Mother: In the past, after Emperor Ai ascended the throne, he violated his kindness and morality and honored his relatives, the Ding family and the Fu family without authorization, which disrupted the country and almost endangered the country.
Now that Emperor Ping has inherited his eldest ancestry at a young age and becomes a descendant of the Cheng Emperor, he should clearly understand the significance of unifying the country, use the events of the previous generation as a warning, and set an example for future generations.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
于是遣甄丰奉玺绶，即拜帝母卫姬为中山孝王后，赐帝舅卫宝、宝弟玄爵关内侯，皆留中山，不得至京师。
莽子宇，非莽隔绝卫氏，恐帝长大后见怨。
宇即私遣人与宝等通书，教令帝母上书求入。
语在《卫后传》。
莽不听。
宇与师吴章及妇兄吕宽议其故，章以为莽不可谏，而好鬼神，可为变怪以惊惧之，章因推类说令归政于卫氏。
宇即使宽夜持血酒莽第门，吏发觉之，莽执宇送狱，饮药死。
宇妻焉怀子，系狱，须产子已，杀之。
莽奏言： 宇为吕宽等所诖误，流言惑众，与管、蔡同罪，臣不敢隐，其诛。
甄邯等白太后下诏曰： 夫唐尧有丹朱，周文王有管、蔡，此皆上圣亡奈下愚子何，以其性不可移也。
公居周公之位，辅成王之主，而行管、蔡之诛，不以亲亲害尊尊，朕甚嘉之。
昔周公诛四国之后，大化乃成，至于刑错。
公其专意翼国，期于致平。
莽因是诛灭卫氏，穷治吕宽之狱，连引郡国豪桀素非议已者，内及敬武公主、梁王立、红阳侯立、平阿侯仁，使者迫守，皆自杀。
死者以百数，海内震焉。
大司马护军褒奏言： 安汉公遭子宇陷于管、蔡之辜，子受至重，为帝室故不敢顾私。
惟宇遭罪，喟然愤发作书八篇，以戒子孙。
宜班郡国，令学官以教授。
事下群公，请令天下吏能诵公戒者，以著官簿，比《孝经》。
四年春，郊祀高祖以配天，宗祀孝文皇帝以配上帝。
四月丁未，莽女立为皇后，大赦天下。
遣大司徒司直陈崇等八人分行天下，览观风俗。
translation: 
So Zhen Feng was sent to hold the seal and confer the title of Empress Xiao of Zhongshan on Emperor Ping's mother Wei Ji on the spot. He also granted Emperor Ping's uncle Wei Shi and Wei Bao's brother Wei Xuanguan the title of Neihou, so that they could stay in Zhongshan and not be allowed to come to Chang'an.
Wang Mang's son, Wang Yu, blamed Wang Mang for separating the Wei family from the royal family, fearing that Emperor Ping would be resentful when he grew up.
Wang Yu secretly sent a message to Wei Bao and others, asking Emperor Ping's mother to write a letter requesting to come to the capital.
These words are recorded in "The Biography of Queen Wei."
Wang Mang refused.
Wang Yu discussed this matter with his teacher Wu Zhang and brother-in-law Lu Kuan. Wu Zhang believed that Wang Mang would not listen to the persuasion, but he believed in ghosts and gods and could cause disasters to frighten him. Wu Zhang then took the opportunity to deduce and persuade him to hand over power to the Wei family.
Wang Yu asked Lu Ye to smear Wang Mang's mansion with blood. When the gatekeepers discovered what had happened, Wang Mang arrested Wang Yu and threw him into prison, where he drank poison and died.
Wang Yu's wife Lu Yan was pregnant and was imprisoned. He waited until she gave birth to a child before killing her.
Wang Mang reported: Wang Yu was implicated by Lu Kuan and others, went astray, spread rumors to confuse everyone, and committed the same crime as Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai. I dare not hide it, so he should be punished.
Zhen Han and others reported to the Queen Mother and issued an edict: Tang Yao had a son Danzhu, and King Wen of Zhou had sons Guan Shu and Cai Shu. These are all examples of people with high virtues, talents and wisdom having no choice but to deal with the stupidest sons, because their nature is hard to change.
You are in the position of Duke of Zhou, assisting young masters like King Cheng, and punishing Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai just like Duke Zhou did to Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai. You do not hinder respect for the court because of your love for your son. I appreciate your actions very much.
In the past, Duke Zhou punished the descendants of the three prisons and the four kingdoms of Huai and Yi, completing a profound enlightenment to the point where no one committed a crime and the punishment was shelved.
You should concentrate on assisting the government and hope to achieve peace.
Wang Mang took advantage of this opportunity to kill the Wei family, thoroughly investigated Lu Kuan's case, and implicated various counties and feudal states. He always criticized those with outstanding talents. The court involved Princess Jingwu, Liang Wang Liu Li, Hongyang Hou Wangli, and Ahou Wangren. He sent envoys to persecute them, but they all committed suicide.
Hundreds of people died, and the world was shocked.
Chen Zuo, named Bao, the great Sima Hujun, said: When Duke Anhan met his son Wang Yu and committed crimes like Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai, although he loved his son deeply, he did not dare to take into account personal affairs for the benefit of the royal family.
Considering Wang Yu's crime, he wrote eight articles with emotion to warn his descendants.
These articles should be distributed throughout the country and ordered to be used by academic officials to teach students.
The matter was handed down to the ministers. They requested that all officials in the country who could recite An Mo Gong's admonitions to his descendants should be recorded in the official archives and treat An Han Gong's text as the "Book of Filial Piety".
In the spring of the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, people worshiped heaven in the suburbs, and at the same time offered sacrifices to Emperor Gaozu, and worshiped heaven in the ancestral temple, and at the same time offered sacrifices to Emperor Xiaowen.
On the last day of April, Wang Mang's daughter was made queen and a general amnesty was announced.
Eight people including Da Situ Sizhi, Chen Chong and others were dispatched to various parts of the country to inspect social customs.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
太保舜等奏言： 《春秋》列功德之义，太上有立德，其次有立功，其次有立言，唯至德大贤然后能之。
其在人臣，则生有大赏，终为宗臣，殷之伊尹，周之周公是也。
及民上书者八千余人，咸曰： 伊尹为阿衡，周公为太宰，周公享七子之封，有过上公之赏。
宜如陈崇言。
章下有司，有司请 还前所益二县及黄邮聚、新野田，采伊尹、周公称号，加公为宰衡，位上公。
掾史秩六百石。
三公言事，称 敢言之 。
群吏毋得与公同名。
出众期门二十人，羽林三十人，前后大车十乘。
赐公太夫人号曰功显君，食邑二千户，黄金印赤韨。
封公子男二人，安为褒新侯，临为赏都侯。
加后聘三千七百万，合为一万万，以明大礼 。
太后临前殿，亲封拜。
安汉公拜前，二子拜后，如周公故事。
莽稽首辞让，出奏封事，愿独受母号，还安、临印韨及号位户邑。
事下太师光等，皆曰： 赏未足以直功，谦约退让，公之常节，终不可听。
莽求见固让。
太后下诏曰： 公每见，叩头流涕固辞，今移病，固当听其让，令视事邪？
将当遂行其赏，遣归就第也？
光等曰： 安、临亲受印韨，策号通天，其义昭昭。
黄邮、召陵、新野之田为入尤多，皆止于公，公欲自损以成国化，宜可听许。
治平之化当以时成，宰衡之官不可世及。
纳征钱，乃以尊皇后，非为公也。
功显君户，止身不传。
褒新、赏都两国合三千户，甚少矣。
忠臣之节，亦宜自屈，而信主上之义。
translation: 
Taibao Wang Shun and others reported: "Spring and Autumn" lists the great meanings of merit. The highest is to establish virtue, the second is to establish merit, and the third is to write books and establish theories. Only the most noble sages can do these.
For those who are ministers, they receive the greatest reward during their lifetime and become ministers admired by people after their death. Yi Yin of the Yin Shang Dynasty and Duke Zhou of the Zhou Dynasty are such people.
At that time, more than eight thousand people submitted letters, saying: "Yi Yin is the Aheng, and Zhou Gong is the Dazai. The Duke of Zhou enjoys the title of seven sons, and has received rewards that exceed those of the Grand Duke."
We should do what Chen Chong said.
The memorial was sent to the officials in charge, who requested that the two previously enfeoffed counties, as well as the fields in Huangyouju and Xinye counties be returned, and the titles of Yiyin and Duke of Zhou be used, and the title of prime minister was given to Duke Anhan, ranking above the three Dukes.
The salary of an official is six hundred stones.
When Sangong wrote to Heng, he would like to start by saying "I would venture to say".
Officials are not allowed to have the same name as Duke Anmo.
When going out, he was accompanied by twenty Qimen soldiers, thirty Yulin cavalry, and ten carts at the front and rear.
His mother was granted the title of Gongxianjun, and was awarded a fiefdom of 2,000 households. He also wore a gold seal and a red ribbon.
He gave his two sons, Wang An as Xiangxin Marquis and Wang Lin as Shangdu Marquis.
The queen's betrothal gift was increased by 37 million, making it 100 million to show the solemnity of the etiquette.
The Queen Mother came to the front hall and conferred the title in person.
安汉公在前拜谢，两个儿子在后拜谢，如同周公的旧例。
Wang Mang kowtowed and refused, and after leaving the palace, he presented the matter of granting the title, saying that he would only accept the title given to his mother, but would return the seals and titles and lands of Wang An and Wang Lin.
The matter was reported to Grand Master Kong Guang and others, who all said: "Rewards are not enough for merit. Humility, frugality, and retreat from courtesy are the consistent virtues of Duke Anhan, and we must not rely on each other."
Wang Mang asked to see the Queen Mother and firmly refused the reward.
The Queen Mother issued an edict saying: Every time Duke Anhan comes to court, he resolutely refuses with kowtows and tears. Now that he is writing a letter claiming to be ill, should he accept his refusal and let him handle political affairs?
Or should we execute the reward given to him and let him return to his mansion?
Kong Guang and others said: Wang An and Wang Lin personally accepted the seal, and the title and title of Ce were announced to heaven. This fact is clear.
The income from the fields in Huangyouju, Zhaoling County, and Xinye County is more, which is only related to Anhan Gong. He intends to exercise self-restraint to promote the country's civility, which should be agreed.
The stability of the world and political clarity should be achieved, and the titles of the prime minister should not be hereditary.
The increased betrothal money was to show respect for the queen, not for Duke An Mo.
Gongxianjun's food and estates are limited to the extent that he himself cannot inherit them.
There are three thousand households in Baoxin and Shangdu, which is a very small number.
The conduct of loyal ministers should also be self-restraint, in order to demonstrate the principle of trust in the monarch's rewards and punishments.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
宜遣大司徙、大司空持节承制，诏公亟入视事。
诏尚书勿复受公之让奏。
奏可。
莽乃起视事，上书言： 臣以元寿二年六月戊午仓卒之夜，以新都侯引入未央宫；瘐申拜为大司马，充三公位；元始元年正月丙辰拜为太傅，赐号安汉公，备四辅官；今年四月甲子复拜为宰衡，位上公。
臣莽伏自惟，爵为新都侯，号为安汉公，官为宰衡、太傅、大司马，爵贵、号尊、官重，一身蒙大宠者五，诚非鄙臣所能堪。
据元始三年，天下岁已复，官属宜皆置。
《穀梁传》曰： 天子之宰，通于四海。 臣愚以为，宰衡官以正百僚平海内为职，而无印信，名实不副。
臣莽无兼官之材，今圣朝既过误而用之，臣请御史刻宰衡印章曰 宰衡太傅大司马印 ，成，授臣莽，上太傅与大司马之印。
太后诏曰： 可。
韨如相国，朕亲临授焉。
莽乃复以所益纳征钱千万，遗与长乐长御奉共养者。
太保舜奏言： 天下闻公不受干乘之土，辞万金之币，散财施予千万数，莫不乡化。
蜀郡男子路建等辍讼惭怍而退，虽文王却虞、芮何以加！
宜报告天下。
奏可。
宰衡出，从大车前后各十乘，直事尚书郎、待御史、谒者、中黄门、期门羽林。
宰衡常持节，所止，谒者代持之。
宰衡掾史秩六百石，三公称 敢言之 。
是岁，莽奏起明堂、辟雍、灵台，为学者筑舍万区，作市、常满仓，制度甚盛。
立《乐经》，益博士员，经各五人。
translation: 
Da Situ and Da Sikong should be sent to hold talismans and make books, and Shao ordered An Mo Gong to enter the government as soon as possible.
Order the minister not to accept any more resignation memorials from him.
The memorials of Kong Guang and others were recognized.
Wang Mang then came out to deal with political affairs and wrote a letter saying: On the night when an incident occurred on Wuwu Day in June of the second year of Yuanshou, I was introduced to the Weiyang Palace as the new capital lord; Geng Shen was appointed as the Grand Sima, and he took up the position of the three Dukes; on Bingchen of the first month of the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, he was appointed as the Taifu, and I was awarded the title of Duke Anmo, occupying the official position of the Fourth Assistant; in April of this year, Jiazi was appointed as the Prime Minister, occupying the position of the Grand Duke.
I think about it for myself. The title is Marquis of Xindu, the title is Duke Anmo, and the official titles are Prime Minister, Taifu and Grand Sima. The title is noble, the title is prestigious, and the official position is important. One person has received five great honors. It is really beyond my ability.
According to the survey in the third year of the Yuan Dynasty, the harvest across the country has returned to normal, and all officials should be restored.
"Gu Liang Zhuan" says: The emperor's ministers have power throughout the country. I believe that the prime minister should take it as his own responsibility to correct all officials and govern the world, but he has no seal of approval and his name does not live up to his reality.
I don't have the talent to hold multiple positions at the same time. Now that the imperial court has made a mistake in appointing me, I asked the censor to engrave the seal of the Prime Minister, which is called the seal of the Prime Minister, Taifu and Da Sima.
The Queen Mother issued an edict saying: "Yes."
The lace of the engraved seal can be imitated by the seal button of the Prime Minister. I personally came to the court to confer it to An Mo Gong.
Wang Mang then gave the increased betrothal gift of 10 million to the eunuchs and maids serving the Queen Mother in Changle Palace.
Taibao Wang Shun reported: "The people heard that Duke Anhan refused to accept the land of Qiancheng Hou Kingdom, refused the betrothal silver of 10,000 catties of gold, and distributed his property to tens of millions of others. Everyone expressed their admiration."
After hearing this, Lu Jian, a man from Shu County, and others stopped fighting the lawsuit and backed down in shame. Even if King Wen of Zhou influenced the kings of Yu and Rui to stop the land dispute and give in, it was nothing more than this.
The incident should be announced to the world.
The memorial was approved.
When the prime minister went out, he was followed by ten carts in front and behind, accompanied by Shangshu Lang who was on duty as director, Shi Yushi, Ye Zhe, Zhonghuangmen, Qimen guards and Yulin army.
The prime minister often holds the talisman in his hand, and his visitors will take it to him wherever he stays.
The salary of the prime minister's subordinates is 600 shi. When the third prince reported to the prime minister, he said "presumptuously".
This year, Wang Mang proposed to build a Mingtang, a national imperial college, a royal observatory, more than 10,000 dormitories for students, a market, and a Changmancang. The scale was spectacular.
The "Yue Jing" course was opened in Taixue, and the number of PhDs was increased. Each type of scripture was taught by five people.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
征天下通一艺教授十一人以上，及有逸《礼》、古《书》、《毛诗》、《周官》、《尔雅》、天文、图谶、钟律、月令、兵法、《史篇》文字，通知其意者，皆诣公车。
网罗天下异能之士，至者前后千数，皆令记说廷中，将令正乖廖，一异说云。
群臣奏言： 昔周公奉继体之嗣，据上公之尊，然犹七年制度乃定。
夫明堂、辟雍，堕废千载莫能兴，今安汉公起于第家，辅翼陛下，四年于兹，功德烂然。
公以八月载生魄庚子奉使，朝用书临赋营筑，越若翊辛丑，诸生、庶民大和会，十万众并集，平作二旬，大功毕成。
唐、虞发举，成周造业，诚亡以加。
宰衡位宜在诸侯王上，赐以束帛加璧，大国乘车、安车各一，骊马二驷。
诏曰： 可。
其议九锡之法。
冬，大风吹长安城东门屋瓦且尽。
五年正月，袷祭明堂，诸侯王二十八人，列侯百二十人，宗室子九百余人，征助祭。
礼毕，封孝宣曾孙信第三十六人为列侯，余皆益户赐爵，金、帛之赏各有数。
是时，吏民以莽不受新野田而上书者前后四十八万七千五百七十二人，及诸侯、王公、列侯、宗室见者皆叩头言，宜亟加赏于安汉公。
于是莽上书曰： 臣以外属，越次备位，未能奉称。
伏念圣德纯茂。承天当古，制礼以治民，作乐以移风，四海奔走，百蛮并臻，辞去之日，莫不陨涕，非有款诚，岂可虚致？
自诸侯王已下至于吏民，咸知臣莽上与陛下有葭莩之故，又得典职，每归功列德者，辄以臣莽为余言。
臣见诸侯面言事于前者，未尝不流汗而渐愧也。
translation: 
Eleven professors from across the country who were proficient in one Confucian study were recruited, as well as those who had collected the lost "Li Jing", ancient texts "Shang Shu", "Mao Shi", "Zhou Guan", "Erya", astronomy, prophecies, music, moon order calendars, art of war, and "Shi Zhou Pian" texts, and who were familiar with their meanings, all went to Gongche Yamen.
Recruiting students with special talents from all over the world, thousands of people came, and asked them to record their opinions in the court, intending to use them to correct absurdities and unify various different opinions.
The ministers reported: When the Duke of Zhou assisted the young master who succeeded to the throne and became the king, he occupied the noble status of the Duke, but it still took seven years to finalize the legal system.
The Mingtang Hall and the National Imperial College have been destroyed and abandoned for thousands of years, and no one has been able to build or rebuild them. Now Anhan Gong comes from an ordinary noble family and assists His Majesty in governing. It has only been four years, and his merits are already very obvious.
On August 16, Gengzi accepted the mission from the imperial court and personally arranged the construction project with the book allocating the merits. The next day, Xin Chou said, Confucian scholars and common people gathered together. One hundred thousand people gathered together, and the construction work was completed normally for twenty days.
Even if Tang Yao and Yu Shun carried out construction, and Zhou Gong built Zhou City, it was nothing more than this.
The prime minister's status should be higher than that of the princes and kings, and he should be rewarded with five horses of silk and jade, as well as one chariot and one chariot, and eight pure black horses, just like the kings of great countries.
The Queen Mother went down to Shao and said, "Okay."
The plan for granting nine kinds of utensils should be discussed.
That winter, strong winds tore off almost all the roof tiles on the east gate of Chang'an City.
In the first month of the fifth year of the Yuan Dynasty, twenty-eight princes and kings, one hundred and twenty princes, and more than nine hundred royal children were recruited to accompany the emperor in worshiping the gods.
At the end of the ceremony, thirty-six people including Liu Xin, the great-grandson of Emperor Xiaoxuan, were conferred as marquises. The others were granted additional fiefdoms and households, and were given titles of nobility. The rewards of money and silk were different.
At this time, 487,572 officials and people wrote petitions because Wang Mang refused to accept the land in Xinye County, as well as princes, princes, princes and royal family members who were summoned. They all kowtowed and said that the reward should be increased to Duke Anhan as soon as possible.
It was Wang Mang who wrote a letter saying: As a foreign relative, I am occupying an official position beyond my rank and am not qualified for my position.
I prostrate myself in memory of Your Majesty's holiness and simplicity. He complied with the will of God and complied with ancient precepts. He formulated etiquette and laws to govern the people, created music and teachings to change customs. When the world came to court, all the barbarians came to join the court. On the day of farewell and departure, no one did not shed tears.
If it doesn't come from the heart, can it be caused by empty words? From the princes and kings down to the officials and common people, they all know that the minister Wang Mang is related to His Majesty and holds an important position. Every time he praises his virtues, he always mentions the minister Wang Mang.
I always feel ashamed when I see princes mentioning these things in front of you.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
虽性愚鄙，至诚自知，德薄位尊，力少任大，夙夜悼栗，常恐污辱圣朝。
今天下治平，风俗齐风，百蛮率服，毕陛下圣德所自躬亲，太师光、太保舜等辅政佐治，群卿大夫莫不忠良，故能以五年之间至致此焉。
臣莽实无奇策异谋。
奉承太后圣诏，宣之于下，不能得什一；受群贤之筹画，而上以闻，不得能什伍。
当被无益之辜，所以敢且保首领须臾者，诚上休陛下余光，而下依群公之故也。
陛下不忍众言，辄下其章于议者。
臣莽前欲立奏止，恐其遂不肯止。
今大礼已行，助祭者毕辞，不胜至愿，愿诸章下议者皆寝勿上，使臣莽得尽力毕制礼作乐事。
事成，以传示天下，与海内平之。
即有所间非，则臣莽当被诖上误朝之罪。如无他谴，得全命赐骸骨归家，避贤者路，是臣之私愿也。
惟陛下哀怜财幸！
甄邯等白太后，诏曰： 可。
惟公功德光于天下，是以诸侯、王公、列侯、宗室、诸生、吏民翕然同辞，连守阙庭，故下其章。
诸侯、宗室辞去之日，复见前重陈，虽晓喻罢遣，犹不肯去。
告以孟夏将行厥赏，莫不欢悦，称万岁而退。
今公每见，辄流涕叩头言愿不受赏，赏即加不敢当位。
方制作未定，事须公而决，故且听公。
制作毕成，群公以闻。
究于前议，其九锡礼仪亟奏。
于是公卿大夫、博士、议郎、列侯张纯等九百二人皆曰： 圣帝明王招贤劝能，德盛者位高，功大者赏厚。
故宗臣有九命上公之尊，则有九锡登等之宠。
今九族亲睦，百姓既章，万国和协，黎民时雍，圣瑞毕溱，太平已洽。
帝者之盛莫隆于唐、虞，而陛下任之；忠臣茂功莫著于伊、周，而宰衡配之。
translation: 
Although I am dull and mean by nature, I am self-aware. I have little virtue but high official position, little ability but great responsibility. I am afraid and tremble day and night, and I am always worried about tarnishing the court.
Now the world is peaceful and the customs are uniform. Therefore, the foreigners have surrendered. This is all due to your majesty's sage and virtue. Taishi Kong Guang, Taibao Wang Shun and others assist the government and governance. All the ministers and officials are loyal ministers and good officials, so they can achieve such political achievements in five years.
The minister Wang Mang does not have any wonderful strategies or special strategies.
Just adhering to the empress dowager's imperial edict and conveying it downwards, still cannot understand one tenth; accepting the planning and planning of all the wise ministers, and reporting upwards, still cannot summarize five tenths.
I should bear the blame for my incompetence in doing things, but the reason why I can temporarily save my life is actually because I have received the protection of His Majesty from above and the support from the ministers below.
His Majesty was impatient with the numerous memorials and always handed them over to the officials who discussed the matter.
My minister, Wang Mang, had planned to write to you immediately to ask you to stop it, but he was worried that they would never stop.
Now that the ceremony has been held and everyone who participated in the ceremony has left, my greatest wish is that the memorials handed over to me for discussion will be stopped and not reported, so that I, Wang Mang, can do his best to complete the business of making rituals and music.
After the mission is completed, it will be made known to the whole country, so that people in the world can comment.
If there is any criticism, then the minister Wang Mang should bear the serious crime of involving the emperor and causing trouble for the court; if there is no other blame, his life can be saved, and the prospective minister can retire and go home to make way for virtuous people. This is my personal wish.
I hope your majesty will have sympathy and mercy!
After Zhen Han and others reported to Yu Li, they issued an edict saying: "It's okay."
It was just that An Mogong's merits illuminated the whole country, so the princes, kings, three princes and nine ministers, princes, royal family, Confucian scholars, officials and common people all agreed and waited in front of the palace continuously, so they handed over their memorials.
On the day when the princes and royal family left, they once again went to the palace gate and made a solemn memorial in front of the palace. Although they had been clearly informed of the disbandment, they still refused to leave.
Later, they were told that this reward would be implemented in early summer. Everyone was happy and left shouting long live.
Now every time Anhangong comes to see him, he always sheds tears and kowtows, saying that he hopes no rewards will be given. If rewards are given, he will not dare to hold his current position.
The work of making rituals and music is not over yet, everything needs to be decided by Duke Anhan, so I will listen to his opinion for the time being.
When the ceremony and music were completed, the ministers reported the situation.
Do an in-depth study of previous discussions. Report the ceremony of awarding nine tins as soon as possible.
So the 902 people including the ministers, doctors, Yilang, Fupinghou Zhang Chun, etc. all said: The sage emperor recruits wise men and rewards talented people. Those with high virtue will have high power and position, and those with great merit will be rewarded more.
Therefore, ministers with high moral character and high prestige can obtain the lofty status of ninth-level princes and enjoy nine kinds of honors with rewards exceeding ordinary levels.
Now the royal family and relatives are friendly and harmonious, the officials and ministers have clearly established it, the surrounding countries are friendly and harmonious, the people are kind and harmonious, auspicious omens are everywhere, and the scene of peace has widely appeared.
The emperor's great achievements are not more outstanding than those of Tang Yao and Yu Ai, and your majesty is qualified; the achievements of loyal ministers are not more outstanding than those of Yi Yin and Zhou Gong, and the prime minister is worthy of them.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
所谓异时而兴，如合符者也。
谨以《六艺》通义，经文所见，《周官》、《礼记》宜于今者，为九命之锡。臣请命锡。
奏可。
策曰：
惟元始五年五月庚寅，太皇太后临于前殿，延登，亲诏之曰：公进，虚听朕言。
前公宿卫孝成皇帝十有六年，纳策尽忠，白诛故定陵侯淳于长，以弥乱发奸，登大司马，职在内辅。
孝哀皇帝即位，骄妾窥欲，奸臣萌动，公手劾高昌侯董宏，改正故定陶共王母之僣坐。
自是之后，朝臣论议，靡不据经。
以病辞位，归于第家，为贼臣所陷。
就国之后，孝哀皇帝觉寤，复还公长安，临病加剧，犹不忘公，复特进位。
是夜仓卒，国无储主，奸臣充朝，危殆甚矣。
朕惟定国之计莫宜于公，引纳于朝，即日罢退高安侯董贤，转漏之间，忠策辄建，纲纪咸张。
绶和、元寿，再遭大行，万事皆举，祸乱不作。
辅朕五年，人伦之本正，天地之位定。
钦承神祇，经纬四时，复千载之废，矫百世之失，天下和会，大众方辑。
《诗》之灵台，《书》之作雒，镐京之制，商邑之度，于今复兴。
昭章先帝之元功，明著祖宗之令德，推显严父配天之义，修立郊禘宗祀之礼，以光大孝。
是以四海雍雍，万国慕义，蛮夷殊俗，不召自至，渐化端冕，奉珍助祭。
寻旧本道，遵术重古，动而有成，事得厥中。
至德要道，通于神明，祖考嘉享。
光耀显章，天符仍臻，元气大同。
translation: 
Creation means that although people cannot be at the same time, their achievements are in line with each other.
We would like to use the "Six Arts" applicable to the general principles. What is recorded in the scriptures, "Zhou Guan" and "Book of Rites" are still applicable to today's situation, and we have drawn up a plan to reward Jiuxi. We request your Majesty to order the implementation of this reward.
The memorial was approved.
The policy book said:
On Gengyin Day in May of the fifth year of the Yuan Dynasty, the Empress Dowager came to the front hall in person, invited Anhan Gong to come to the hall, and personally ordered him: "Come here and listen to me patiently."
In the past, you served and defended Emperor Xiaocheng for sixteen years. You made suggestions and showed great loyalty. You suggested severely punishing Chun Yuchang, the original Marquis of Dingling. You stopped the chaos and exposed the evil. You were promoted to Grand Sima, and your duty was to assist the Emperor in the court.
The filial emperor ascended the throne, the arrogant concubines tried to steal the title of the empress dowager, and the treacherous ministers tried to create chaos. It was you who personally impeached Dong Hong, the Marquis of Gaochang, for his crime, and corrected the original appointment of Queen Tao Gong's mother to go beyond her official position.
From then on, the ministers of the imperial court discussed and discussed political affairs in accordance with the classics.
Later, you resigned from the post of Grand Sima due to illness and returned to your mansion, where you were framed by a traitor.
After returning to the feudal country, Emperor Xiaoai came to his senses and recalled you to Chang'an. When his condition worsened, he still did not forget you and restored you to the position of Tejin.
A sudden change occurred that night. The country had no heir to the throne and the court was filled with treacherous ministers. The situation was very critical.
I thought there was no one more suitable than you for the great plan of stabilizing the country, so I called you into the court. On the same day, I dismissed Dong Xian, the Marquis of Gao'an. In a short time, the policy of loyalty to the court was formulated and the country's laws and regulations were implemented.
During the Suihe and Yuanshou years, the emperor died twice, and many things were properly handled and no disasters occurred.
After assisting me for five years, the foundation of human relations has been corrected, and the position of heaven and earth has been determined.
They worshiped the heaven and earth respectfully, carried out government and agricultural affairs according to the weather, and governed in an orderly manner; the system that had been abandoned for thousands of years was restored, and the mistakes of a hundred generations were corrected. The country was peaceful and the people were harmonious.
The "Book of Songs" records that King Wen of Zhou built a spiritual platform in Fengjing, and the "Book of Books" records that Duke Zhou built Luoyi. The system of Haojing and the laws of Shangyi have been revived now.
Promote the great achievements of the late emperor, publicize the virtues of the ancestors, promote the principle of respecting the ancestors and enjoying heaven, and properly establish the etiquette of suburban sacrifice, chair sacrifice and ancestral sacrifice to promote filial piety.
Therefore, many countries aspire to the harmony of the world, and those barbarian peoples come without being summoned, receive education, change their clothes, present treasures, and participate in sacrificial ceremonies.
If we seek ancient laws and regulations, follow the righteous ways of saints, follow Confucianism, and pay attention to ancient traditions, everything will be effective and everything will be just right.
With the righteousness and virtue of loyalty to the emperor and filial piety, one can communicate with the gods, and the ancestors can be well worshiped.
The brilliance shines brightly and brilliantly, and God's destiny comes many times. The people of the country are in high spirits and enjoy peace.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
麟凤龟龙，众祥之瑞，七百有余。
遂制礼作乐，有绥靖宗庙社稷之大勋。
普天之下，惟公是赖，官在宰衡，位为上公。
今加九命之锡，其以助祭，共文武之职，乃遂及厥祖。於戏，岂不休哉！
于是莽稽首再拜，受绿韨衮冕衣赏，玚琫玚珌，句履，鸾路乘马，龙旂九旒，皮弁素积，戎路乘马，彤弓矢，卢弓矢，左建朱钺，右建金戚，甲胄一具，秬鬯二卣，圭瓒二，九命青玉珪二，朱户纳陛。
署宗官、祝官、卜官、史官，虎贲三百人，家令丞各一人，宗、祝、卜、史官皆置啬夫，佐官汉公。
在中府外第，虎贲为门卫，当出入者傅籍。
自四辅、三公有事府第，皆用传。
以楚王邸为安汉公第，大缮治，通周卫。
祖祢庙及寝皆为朱户纳陛。
陈崇又奏： 安汉公祠祖祢，出城门，城门校尉宜将骑士从。
入有门卫，出有骑士，所以重国也。
奏可。
其秋，莽以皇后有子孙瑞，通子午道。
子午道从杜陵直绝南山，径汉中。
风俗使者八人还，言天下风俗齐同，诈为郡国造歌谣，颂功德，凡三万言。
莽奏定著令。
又奏为市无二贾，官无狱讼，邑无盗贼，野无饥民，道不拾遗，男女异路之制，犯者象刑。
刘歆、陈崇等十二人皆以治明堂，宣教化，封为列侯。
莽既致太平，北化匈奴，东致海外，南怀黄支，唯西方未有加。
乃遣中郎将平宪等多持金币诱塞外羌，使献地，愿内属。
translation: 
Kirin, phoenix, turtle, yellow dragon and many other auspicious omens appeared more than 700 times.
Therefore, he formulated ritual systems, created music and teachings, and made great contributions to the stability of the country.
All the hopes of the whole world are pinned on you. You are the prime minister, and your title is the same as that of the Grand Duke.
The reward given to Jiuxi now should be used to participate in sacrifices and appoint hundreds of civil and military officials. The honor you have received will finally bring glory to your ancestors. Wow, isn't it beautiful?
So Wang Mang kowtowed again and accepted the green apron, formal dress, top hat and daily clothes, the jade-inlaid saber, the boots with different heads, the chariot with bells and four horses, the dragon flag with nine bunches of tape as decoration, the leather military crown and white war robe, and the military chariot. There are four war horses, a red bow and a black bow and arrow. There is a red ax and iron on the left side of the palace gate and a golden ax and iron on the right. There is a collar for each armor, two coins of fragrant wine, two jade spoons, and two nine-life sapphire gui that symbolizes the highest-ranking officials. It is allowed to install a red painted door and build steps inside the eaves.
There were set up Zongguan, Zhuguan, Buguan, and Shiguan, with 300 Huben officials. There was one family magistrate and family minister each. Zongguan, Zhu, Buguan, Shiguan and other officials were all appointed to assist Anhan Gong.
In government offices and private residences, tiger warriors served as doormen, and those who wanted to enter and exit had to be registered.
Starting from Si Fu and San Gong, if you want to enter the official office or house for something, you must use the command talisman.
The official residence of the King of Chu in Beijing was used as the residence of Duke Anhan, and it was greatly repaired and renovated to make it accessible to the surrounding guards.
Both ancestral sacrificial temples and dormitory temples can install red painted doors and create steps within the eaves.
Su Chong reported again: When Duke Anhan went out from the city gate to offer sacrifices to his ancestors, the captain of the city gate should send knights to follow him.
When you enter the city, you are protected by guards, and when you leave the city, you are followed by knights. This is to respect the country.
The memorial was approved.
In the autumn of this year, Wang Mang dug the Ziwu Road because his daughter, Queen Wang, had an auspicious sign of giving birth.
The Ziwu Road starts from Duling, crosses Zhongnan Mountain, and reaches Hanzhong.
Eight custom envoys came back and said that the customs of the world were uniform. They forged folk songs and folk songs of each county and feudal state to praise virtues, a total of 30,000 words.
Wang Mang reported it to the public and clearly recorded it in the documents.
He also reported that everything in the market has a second price, there are no lawsuits in the government, there are no thieves in the city, there are no hungry people in the suburbs, people do not pick up people on the road, and the system of men and women not walking together is implemented, and violators only receive symbolic punishment.
Twelve people including Liu Xin and Chen Chong were all granted the title of marquis for building Mingtang and promoting enlightenment.
Wang Mang has achieved peace, the north has influenced the Xiongnu, the east has attracted overseas countries, and the south has embraced the Huangzhi, but only the west has not been affected.
He sent Zhonglang, General Hu Xian and others to bring many gold and silver treasures to attract the Qiang people outside the Great Wall, and asked them to donate their land and express their willingness to belong to the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
宪等奏言： 羌豪良愿等种，人口可万二千人，愿为内臣，献鲜水海、允谷盐池，平地美草皆予汉民，自居险阻处为藩蔽。
问良愿降意，对曰： 太皇太后圣明，安汉公至仁，天下太平，五谷成熟，或禾长丈余，或一粟三米，或不种自生，或茧不蚕自成，甘露从天下，醴泉自地出，凤皇来仪，神爵降集。
从四岁以来，羌人无所疾苦，故思乐内属。 宜以时处业，置属国领护。
事下莽，莽复奏曰： 太后秉统数年，恩泽洋溢，和气四塞，绝域殊俗，靡不慕义。
越裳氏重译献白雉，黄支自三万里贡生犀，东夷王度大海奉国珍，匈奴单于顺制作，去二名，今西域良愿等复举地为臣妾，昔唐尧横被四表，亦亡以加之。
今谨案已有东海、南海、北海郡，未有西海郡，请受良愿等所献地为西海郡。
臣又闻圣王序天文，定地理，因山川民俗以制州界。
汉家地广二帝、三王，凡十三州，州名及界多不应经。
《尧典》十有二州，后定为九州。
汉家廓地辽远，州牧行部，远者三万余里，不可为九。
谨以经义正十二州名分界，以应正始。
奏可。
又增法五十条，犯者徙之西海。
徙者以千万数，民始怨矣。
泉陵侯刘庆上书言： 周成王幼少，称孺子，周公居摄。
今帝富于春秋，宜令安汉公行天子事，如周公。
郡臣皆曰： 宜如庆言。
冬，荧惑入月中。
translation: 
Ping Xian and others reported: Liangyuan, the leader of the Qiang people, and other tribes, with a population of about 12,000, are willing to become subjects of our country. They will offer the fresh water sea and Yungu salt pond, flat land and beautiful grassland to the Han people, and they will live in a dangerous and blocked place to serve as a barrier for our country.
Asked about Liangyuan's intentions, he replied: The Empress Dowager was wise and the Duke of Anhan was benevolent and righteous. The world was peaceful and the grains were plentiful. Some seedlings grew to more than ten feet long, and some had three ears of grain on one stalk. Some even grew crops without sowing seeds. Some cocoons could be woven by silkworms. Dew fell from the sky, sweet springs gushed from the ground, phoenixes flew over because of yearning, and divine sparrows landed to rest.
Since four years ago, the Qiang people had no pain, so they hoped and were happy to belong to the Han Dynasty. They should arrange their production in time and set up subordinate commanders to protect them.
The matter was handed over to Wang Mang, who responded and said: In the past few years since the Queen Mother has been in charge of state affairs, her favor has spread widely, and peace has filled the four directions. People from far away places and with different customs all yearn for virtue and justice.
The Yue Shang clan presented white pheasants through many translations, Huang Zhi brought live rhinoceros as tribute from 30,000 miles away, King Shuyi crossed the sea to present the national treasure, the Xiongnu Chanyu obeyed our country's system and removed his double name, and now the good wishes of the Western Regions have offered their land to become our country's vassals. In the past, Tang Yao's prestige spread far and wide, but it was nothing more than this.
Now after careful investigation, our country already has Dingdonghai, Nanhai and Beihai counties, but there is no Xihai County. Please accept the land donated by Liangyuan and others as Xihai County.
The minister also heard that the kings of the Ming Dynasty sequenced astronomy and planned geography according to the mountains and rivers. State boundaries are determined by circumstances and customs.
The territory of the Han Dynasty was broader than that of Emperors Yao and Shun of the Tang Dynasty and the kings of Xia, Shang and Zhou Dynasties. There were a total of twelve states, and many of the state names and state boundaries did not conform to the records in the scriptures.
"Yao Dian" said that there were twelve states, which were later designated as Jiuzhou.
The Han Dynasty expanded its territory to extremely far places, and the state pastors regularly inspected the areas under their jurisdiction. The farthest one was more than 30,000 miles away, and it could not be divided into just nine states.
Please use the principles stipulated in the scriptures to revise the names and state boundaries of the twelve states so as to comply with etiquette and law.
The memorial was approved.
Fifty additional laws and regulations were added, and those who violated the rules were exiled to Xihai County.
Tens of millions of people were exiled, and the people became resentful.
Liu Qing, Marquis of Quanling, wrote a letter saying: When King Zhou Cheng was a boy, he was called Ruzi, and the Duke of Zhou acted as an agent in the government.
The current emperor is still young, so Duke Anhan should be allowed to act on behalf of the emperor, just like Duke Zhou did back then.
All the ministers said: We should do what Liu Qing said.
In winter, Mars passes the far side of the moon.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
平帝疾，莽作策，请命于泰畤，戴璧秉圭，愿以身代。
藏策金滕，置于前殿，敕诸公勿敢言。
十二月，平帝崩，大赦天下。
莽征明礼者宗伯凤等与定天下吏六百石以上皆服丧三年。
奏尊孝成庙曰统宗，孝平庙曰元宗。
时元帝世绝，而宣帝曾孙有见王五人，列侯广戚侯显等四十八人，莽恶其长大，曰： 兄弟不得相为后。
乃选玄孙中最幼广戚侯子婴，年二岁，托以为卜相最吉。
是月，前辉光谢嚣奏武功长孟通浚井得白石，上圆下方，有丹书著石，文曰： 告安汉公莽为皇帝。
符命之起，自此始矣。
莽命群公以白太后，太后曰： 此诬罔天下，不可施行！
太保舜谓太后： 事已如此，无可奈何，沮之力不能止。
又莽非敢有它，但欲称摄以重其权，填服天下耳。
太后听许。
舜等即共令太后下诏曰： 盖闻天生众民，不能相治，为之立君以统理之。
君年幼稚，必有寄托而居摄焉，然后能奉天施而成地化，群生茂育。
《书》不云乎？ 天工，人其代之。
朕以孝平皇帝幼年，且统国政，几加元服，委政而属之。
今短命而崩，呜呼哀哉！
已使有司征孝宣皇帝玄孙二十三人，差度宜者，以嗣孝平皇帝之后。
玄孙年在襁褓，不得至德君子，孰能安之？
安汉公莽辅政三世，比遭际会，安光汉室，遂同殊风，至于制作，与周公异世同符。
今前辉光嚣、武功长通上言丹石之符，朕深思厥意，云 为皇帝 者，乃摄行皇帝之事也。
translation: 
When Emperor Ping fell ill, Wang Mang wrote a policy letter. When he arrived in Thailand, he prayed for Emperor Ping's safety and life. He wore a jade bi and held a jade gui, and was willing to sacrifice his own life in place of Emperor Ping.
He kept the plan in a safe and placed it in the front hall, and warned the ministers not to tell it.
In December, Emperor Ping passed away and announced a general amnesty.
Wang Mang recruited Zong Bofeng and others who were well versed in etiquette to participate in the decision to make all officials in the country with more than 600 shi mourn for three years.
Reported to the Queen Mother, the temple of Emperor Xiaocheng was honored as Tongzong, and the Temple of Emperor Ping was called Yuanzong.
At this time, all the descendants of Emperor Yuan were dead, but among the great-grandsons of Emperor Xuan, the five who are now kings, the Marquis of Guangqi, Liu Xian, and forty-eight people are still alive. Wang Mang felt that they had grown up and were difficult to control, so he said: Brothers of the same generation cannot inherit the throne.
So they chose Liu Ying, the youngest of the great-great-grandsons, son of Marquis Guangqi, who was only two years old, on the pretext that he was the most auspicious for fortune-telling and fortune-telling.
This month, Qianhui Guang Xie Xiao reported to Meng Tong, the magistrate of Wugong County, who dredged the well and dug out a white stone with a round upper part and a square lower part. There were vermilion words on it, which read: "Announcement of Prince Mang of Anhan to be the emperor".
The mysterious fortune-telling began from then on.
Wang Mang asked the princes to report this matter to the Queen Mother. The Queen Mother said: This is to deceive the people of the world and cannot be followed.
Taibao Wang Shun said to the Queen Mother: The matter has reached this point. There is no other way. If we want to stop him, there is nothing we can do.
Furthermore, Wang Mang did not dare to have any ambitions. He just wanted to strengthen his power and conquer the world in the name of acting as the emperor.
The Queen Mother agreed after hearing this.
Wang Shun and others jointly asked the Queen Mother to issue an edict: I heard that God made it impossible for all living beings to govern each other, so he set up a monarch to rule and manage them.
If the monarch is young, someone must be entrusted to serve as regent, and then he can receive God's charity and complete the education of the human world so that all living beings can grow up healthily.
Isn’t it said in the Book of Books? People should act in the functions of God.
When Emperor Xiaoping was young, I temporarily took charge of the government and hoped that when he grew up, I would hand over the political power to him.
Now he passed away in a short life, so sad!
The officials in charge have been ordered to recruit twenty-three great-great-grandsons of Emperor Xiaoxuan and select suitable people to succeed Emperor Xiaoping.
The great-great-grandson is still in his infancy. If there is no gentleman of the highest moral character, who can protect him?
An Mogong has been assisting the government for three generations, and has been appreciated by the emperor many times. He has stabilized the country, expanded the imperial foundation of the Han Dynasty, unified the country, and developed into a good situation of making rituals and music. Although the era is different from that of Zhou Gong, he accepts the same talisman.
Now, former Hui Guang Xie and Wugong County Magistrate Meng Tong have reported Baishi's talisman in the alchemy book. I have carefully thought about its meaning. When I say that I am an emperor, I mean to act on behalf of the emperor.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
夫有法成易，非圣人者亡法。
其令安汉公居摄践祚，如周公故事，以武功县为安汉公采地，名曰汉光邑。
具礼仪奏。
于是群臣奏言： 太后圣德昭然，深见天意，诏令安汉公居摄。
臣闻周成王幼少，周道未成，成王不能共事天地，修文、武之烈。
周公权而居摄，则周道成，王室安；不居摄，则恐周队失天命。
《书》曰： 我嗣事子孙，大不克共上下，遏失前人光，在家不知命不易。
天应棐谌，乃亡队命。 说曰：周公服天子之冕，南面而朝群臣，发号施令，常称王命。
召公贤人，不知圣人之意，故不说也。
《礼·明堂记》曰 周公朝诸侯于明堂，天子负斧依南面而立。
谓 周公践天子位，六年朝诸侯，制礼作乐，而天下大服 也。
召公不说。
时武王崩，■粗未除。
由是言之，周公始摄则居天了之位，非乃六年而践阼也。
《书》逸《嘉禾篇》曰： 周公奉鬯立于阼阶，延登，赞曰：假王莅政，勤和天下。 此周公摄政，赞者所称。
成王加元服，周公则致政。
《书》曰： 朕复子明辟 ，周公常称王命，专行不报，故言我复子明君也。
臣请安汉公居摄践祚，服天子韨冕，背斧依于户牖之间，南面朝群臣，听政事。
车服出入警跸，民臣称臣妾，皆如天子之制。
郊祀天地，宗祀明堂，共祀宗庙，享祭群神，赞曰 假皇帝 ，民臣谓之 摄皇帝 ，自称曰 予 。
平决朝事，常以皇帝之诏称 制 、以奉顺皇天之心，辅翼汉室，保安孝平皇帝之幼嗣，遂寄托之义，隆治平之化。
其朝见太皇太后、帝皇后，皆复臣节。
自施政教于其宫家国采，如诸侯礼仪故事。臣昧死请。 太后诏曰： 可。
明年，改元曰 居摄 。
居摄元年正月，莽祀上帝于南郊，迎春于东郊，行大射礼于明堂，养三老五更，成礼而去。
置柱下五史，秩如御史，听政事，侍旁记疏言行。
三月己丑，立宣帝玄孙婴为皇太子，号曰孺子。
以王舜为太傅左辅，甄丰为太阿右拂，甄邯为太保后承。
又置四少，秩皆二千石。
四月，安众侯刘崇与相张绍谋曰： 安汉公莽专制朝政，必危刘氏。
translation: 
It is easy to succeed with the legal system. If you are not a saint, you cannot establish and improve the legal system.
Duke Anhan should be allowed to ascend the throne and exercise imperial power. Following the example of Duke Zhou, Wugong County should be made the fief of Duke Anhan and named Han Guangyi.
As for what ceremonies are needed, the relevant officials must report them.
So the ministers reported: The empress dowager's holy virtue has been revealed to the whole country. She has deeply understood the will of heaven and ordered Anhan Gong to serve as regent and exercise imperial power on behalf of the emperor.
The ministers heard that King Zhou Cheng was young and the way of governing the country of the Zhou Dynasty was not up to standard. King Zhou Cheng could not serve the heaven and earth respectfully and inherit and develop the careers of King Wen and Wu of Zhou.
The Duke of Zhou weighed the situation at that time and became the regent, so that the Zhou Dynasty's governance was established and the royal family was safe; if he had not been the regent, the Zhou Dynasty would have violated the will of God.
"Shu Jing" said: Our descendants who inherit the cause cannot serve the heaven and earth respectfully, and they are cut off from the glorious path of the ancestors. The retainers of the high officials do not know how difficult it is to accept the destiny.
Heaven should help those who are honest and honest, so they will not lose their destiny. The article explaining the meaning of the classics says: Duke Zhou wears the dragon crown of the emperor, sits north to south, accepts the views of his ministers, issues orders, and often calls his intentions the orders of the king of Zhou.
Zhao Gong was a wise man and did not understand the saint's intention, so he was unhappy.
"Book of Rites." "Mingtang Ji" says: Zhou Gong met with the princes in the Mingtang. Like the emperor, he stood facing south with his back against the axe-shaped screen.
It is said that Duke Zhou stood in the position of the emperor. After six years, he met with the princes, formulated etiquette, composed music and teachings, and thus convinced the people of the world.
Duke Zhao was unhappy.
At that time, King Wu had just passed away, and the mourning clothes had not been lifted.
From a certain point of view, the Duke of Zhou has occupied the position of emperor since he became regent, and it was not six years later that he ascended the throne and took office.
The lost "Jiahe Pian" in "Shu Jing" says: Duke Zhou stood on the steps in front of the hall holding fragrant wine to welcome the ministers who ascended to the palace. He said in praise: Acting as the king and prime minister, he tried his best to make all aspects of the country's relations harmonious. This was what the master of ceremonies praised when Duke Zhou acted as the king.
After King Cheng of Zhou came of age, Duke Zhou returned the power.
"Shu Jing" says: I return the power of Mingjun to you. Duke Zhou often calls his own intention the sacred mandate of King Zhou, and handles government affairs independently without asking for instructions and reports. Therefore, I return the power of Mingjun to you.
We ask Duke Anhan to sit on the throne, perform his duties on behalf of the emperor, wear the emperor's clothes and a dragon crown on his head, lean against the axe-shaped screen placed between the doors and windows, face the south, accept the worship of the ministers, and handle government affairs.
The roads he passes through must be guarded and cleared, and all passers-by are prohibited. The common people and ministers will treat him as their slaves, and all must follow the etiquette of the emperor.
He worshiped heaven and earth in the suburbs of Beijing, worshiped his ancestors in the royal hall, worshiped his ancestors in the ancestral temple, and worshiped various gods. He called Anhan Gong a false emperor in praise, and the common people and ministers called him "Emperor", while he called himself "Yu".
To deal with court affairs fairly, the emperor's edict was often used, which was called "making books". With the painstaking efforts of adhering to and complying with God, assisting the Han Dynasty royal family, safeguarding the safety of Emperor Xiaoping's young heirs, fulfilling the righteousness of being entrusted to serve as regent, and allowing the education of governing the country to be prosperous.
But when he met with the Empress Dowager and the Dutiful Empress, he had to restore the etiquette of a courtier.
He can independently carry out political education in his own official office, residence, feudal state, and acquired land, and conduct it in accordance with the rituals of the princes. We plead at the risk of death. The Queen Mother issued an edict saying: "Yes."
The next year, the name was changed to Jushe.
In the first month of the first year of Jushe, Wang Mang went to the southern suburbs of Chang'an to worship the gods, and to the eastern suburbs to welcome the coming of spring. He held a grand shooting ceremony in the Mingtang, entertained the three elders and the fifth watch, and went back after the ceremony.
Set up five historians under the pillar, with the same salary as the censor, so that they can observe Gong Mang's handling of government affairs and stand on both sides to record his words and deeds.
On the day of Jichou in March, Liu Ying, the great-great-grandson of Emperor Xuan, was made the crown prince, known as Ruzi.
Wang Shun was appointed as Taifu Zuofu, Zhen Feng as Tai'a Youfu, and Zhen Han as Taibao successor.
Four junior official positions were also established, with salaries of two thousand dan each.
In April, Anzhong Hou Liu Chong discussed with his prime minister Zhang Shao: Anhan Duke Mang's dictatorship in court affairs will definitely endanger the royal family surnamed Liu.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
天下非之者，乃莫敢先举，此宗室耻也。
吾帅宗族为先，海内必和。
绍等从者百余人，遂进攻宛，不得入而败。
绍者，张竦之从兄也。
竦与崇族父刘嘉诣阙自归，莽赦弗罪。
竦因为嘉作奏曰：
建平、元寿之间，大统几绝，宗室几弃。
赖蒙陛下圣德，扶服振救，遮扞匡卫，国命复延，宗室明目。
临明统政，发号施令，动以宗室为始，登用九族为先。
并录支亲，建立王侯，南面之孤，计以百数。
收复绝属，存亡续废，得比肩首，复为人者，嫔然成行，所以藩汉国，辅汉宗也。
建辟雍，立明堂，班天法，流圣化，朝群后，昭文德，宗室诸侯，咸益土地。
天下喁喁，引领而叹，颂声洋洋，满耳而入。
国家所以服此美，膺此名，飨此福，受此荣者，岂非太皇太后日昃之思，陛下夕惕之念哉！
何谓？
乱则统其理，危则致其安，祸则引其福，绝则继其统，幼则代其任，晨夜屑屑，寒暑勤勤，无时休息，孳孳不已者，凡以为天，厚刘氏也。
臣无愚智，民无男女，皆谕至意。
而安众侯崇乃独怀悖惑之心，操畔逆之虑，兴兵动众，欲危宗庙，恶不忍闻，罪不容诛，诚臣子之仇，宗室之雠，国家之贼，天下之害也。
是故亲属震落而告其罪，民人溃畔而弃其兵，进不跬步，退伏其殃。
百岁之母，孩提之子，同时断斩，悬头竿杪，珠珥在耳，首饰犹存，为计若此，岂不悖哉！
臣闻古者畔逆之国，既以诛讨，则猪其宫室以为污池，纳垢浊焉，名曰凶虚，虽生菜茹，而人不食。
translation: 
Of those who opposed him in the world, no one dared to act first. This was a shame to the royal family.
If I lead my fellow tribesmen to take action first, the whole country will definitely respond.
Zhang Shao and others followed him with more than a hundred people, so they attacked Wancheng, but failed before they could enter.
Zhang Shao is Zhang Song's cousin.
Zhang Song and Liu Chong's distant uncle Liu Jia went to the palace to surrender to face the crime. Wang Ling pardoned them without imposing any additional charges.
Qiangsu wrote a memorial for Wangxi and said:
During the Jianping and Yuanshou years, the imperial line was almost interrupted and the royal family was almost abandoned.
Thanks to His Majesty's sage virtues, hard work, maintenance and support, the country's destiny has been restored, and the royal family has seen new hope.
When he was the prime minister of government affairs and issued orders, starting from the royal family, the nine ethnic groups were first considered when hiring people.
They also appointed and rewarded the relatives of the side branches, established kingdoms and vassal states, and those who faced the south and proclaimed themselves kings and lords were counted in hundreds.
They restored the extinct feudal states, allowed the perished ones to exist, and allowed the abandoned ones to continue, so they were able to gain equal status and become dignitaries again. Many of them lined up in rows. This was all to maintain the Han Dynasty and assist the Han royal family.
Build the Imperial Academy, set up a hall for holding ceremonies, promulgate the laws of heaven, spread the teachings of saints, let princes from all over the country come to worship, show the holy virtues of culture and rule, and increase the fiefdoms of the royal princes.
The whole world looks up to him, stretching his neck to look into the distance and praising him, and those who praise him block his way and sing his songs, which ring in his ears.
The reason why the country can gain such a good reputation, enjoy such great blessings, and win such glory is not the Empress Dowager’s thoughts every night, and His Majesty’s thoughts day and night!
Why do you say this?
When there is chaos, he straightens the government to make it peaceful; when there is danger, it makes it peaceful; when there is disaster, it brings happiness; when the imperial line is interrupted, he appoints a new emperor to succeed him; when he encounters the young master, he takes responsibility for him; he is busy from morning to night, diligently from winter to summer, has no time to rest, and works tirelessly, all for the sake of the people of the world and for the respect of the Liu family.
Our ministers, both smart and stupid, and the common people, both men and women, are all aware of your good intentions.
However, Liu Chong, the Marquis of Anzhong, carried out treasonous plans alone, mobilized troops, and planned to harm the emperor and the country. His evil deeds were unbearable, and his crimes were so great that even killing him could not atone for his crimes. He was indeed the enemy of his ministers, the enemy of the royal family, a thief of the country, and a scourge to the world.
Therefore, his relatives were shocked and accused him of his crimes. The people were defeated and betrayed and abandoned his weapons. He did not advance half a step before he retreated and suffered disaster.
Isn’t it ridiculous to think that a centenary-year-old mother and a baby who had just learned to laugh would be beheaded at the same time, and their heads would be hung at the end of bamboo poles, with pearl earrings still hanging on their ears, and gold, silver, and jewelry still on their bodies?
I heard that in ancient times, after rebellious feudal states were conquered and severely punished, their palaces were dug up and turned into swamps to accumulate sewage. They were called ferocious ruins. Even if vegetables grew there, people would not eat them.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
四墙其社，覆上栈下，示不得通。
辨社诸侯，出门见之，著以为戒。
方今天下闻崇之反也，咸欲骞衣手剑而叱之。
其先至者，则拂其颈，冲其匈，刃其躯，切其肌；后至者，欲拔其门，仆其墙，夷其屋，焚其器，应声涤地，则时成创。
而宗室尤甚，言必切齿焉。
何则？
以其背畔恩义，而不知重德之所在也。
宗室所居或远，嘉幸得先闻，不胜愤愤之愿，愿为宗室倡始，父子兄弟负笼荷锸，驰之南阳，猪崇宫室，令如古制。
及崇社宜如毫社，以赐诸侯，用永监戒。
愿下四辅公卿大夫议，以明好恶，视四方。
于是莽大说。
公卿曰： 皆宜如嘉言。
莽白太后下诏曰： 惟嘉父子兄弟，虽与崇有属，不敢阿私，或见萌牙，相率告之，及其祸成，同共雠之，应合古制，忠孝著焉。
其以杜衍户千封嘉为师礼侯，嘉子七人皆赐爵关内侯。
后又封竦为淑德侯。
长安为之语曰： 欲求封，过张伯松；力战斗，不如巧为奏。
莽又封南阳吏民有功者百余人，污池刘崇室宅。后谋反者，皆污池云。
群臣复白： 刘崇等谋逆者，以莽权轻也。
宜尊重以填海内。
五月甲辰，太后诏莽朝见太后称 假皇帝。
冬十月丙辰朔，日有食之。
十二月，群臣奏请： 益安汉公宫及家吏，置率更令，庙、厩、厨长丞，中庶子，虎贲以下百余人，又置卫士三百人。
translation: 
Build walls around its earth-sacrifice shrine, cover the top with bamboo mats, and shield the bottom so as to block the yin and yang qi.
Inform all the princes about the treatment of the Anzhonghou vassal shrine, and ask them to copy one in their respective vassals and see it when going out, as a reference.
When the people of the world heard the news of Liu Chong's rebellion, they all planned to raise their clothes and hold their swords to scold him.
Those who arrive first will chop off his neck, stab his chest, split his body, and cut his muscles; those who arrive later will want to smash his door, knock down his walls, bulldoze his house, burn his utensils, and respond to the situation, which immediately becomes a trauma.
The royal family especially hated him and would gnash their teeth when talking about him.
What's the point?
They think that he has betrayed kindness and morality, and do not understand how profound Deze came to be.
Some of the places where the royal family lived were far apart. Fortunately, Liu Jia was the first to hear about it. He was filled with endless anger and was willing to set an example for the royal family. Carrying bamboo baskets and shovels, his father and son rushed to Nanyang to dig up Liu Chong's palace and turn it into a cesspool, in line with the ancient punishment for rebels.
He also demolished the shrine where Liu Chong worshiped the land, making it like the Boshe that had subjugated the country, and rewarded the sacrificial vessels in his shrine to the kings and princes, which will be used as a reference forever.
I hope to submit my opinions to the Fourth Assistant and the ministers for discussion, so as to express the likes and dislikes of my dynasty and make it known to the world.
So Wang Mang was very happy.
Sangong and Jiuqing said: Everyone should do what Liu Jia said.
Wang Mang reported to the Empress Dowager Ming and issued an edict saying: Although Liu Jia's father, son and brothers were related to Liu Chong, they did not dare to be partial. Some saw that a rebellion was about to break out and reported him one after another. When the rebellion was formed, they all treated him as an enemy. This was in line with the ancient system, and the idea of ​​loyalty and filial piety was very clearly demonstrated.
One thousand households in Duyan County should be granted the title of Marshal Lihou to Liu Jia, and all seven sons of Liu Jia should be given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
Later, Zhang Song was granted the title of Marquis of Shude.
Chang'an people made this incident into a saying: If you want to get a title, go to Zhang Bosong; if you fight desperately, it is better to play cleverly.
Wang Mang also awarded more than 100 meritorious officials and common people in Nanyang County, and destroyed Liu Chong's palace and residence, turning it into a cesspool.
From now on, anyone who plots to destroy his palace will dig up his palace and turn it into a cesspool. The ministers also reported: The reason why Liu Chong and others rebelled is because Wang Mang's power is still too weak.
His power and position should be increased so that he can conquer the world.
On the day of Jiachen in the fifth month, the Queen Mother ordered Wang Mang to call himself the "fake emperor" when he saw her.
On the first day of October in winter, a solar eclipse occurred.
In December, the ministers submitted a petition requesting: Increase Anhan Gong's official offices and household staff, and set the order to increase the number of temple chiefs, temple chiefs, stable chiefs, stable chiefs, kitchen chiefs, kitchen chiefs, middle concubines, and more than 100 Huben warriors, and 300 guards.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
安汉公庐为摄省，府为摄殿，第为摄宫。
奏可。
莽白太后下诏曰： 故太师光虽前薨，功效已列。
太保舜、大司空丰、轻车将军邯、步兵将军建皆为诱进单于筹策，又典灵台、明堂、辟雍、四郊，定制度，开子午道，与宰衡同心说德，合意并力，功德茂著。
封舜了匡为同心侯，林为说德侯，光孙寿为合意侯，丰孙匡为并力侯。
益邯、建各三千户。
是岁，西羌庞恬、傅幡等怨莽夺其地作西海郡，反攻西海太守程永，永奔走。
莽诛永，遣护羌校尉窦况击之。
二年春，窦况等击破西羌。
五月，更造货：错刀，一直五千；契刀，一直五百；大钱，一直五十，与五铢钱并行。
民多盗铸者。
禁列侯以下不得挟黄金，输御府受直，然卒不与直。
九月，东郡太守翟义都试，勒车骑，因发奔命，立严乡侯刘信为天子，移檄郡国，言 莽毒杀平帝，摄天子位，欲绝汉室，今共行天罚诛莽 。
郡国疑惑，众十余万。
莽惶惧不能食，昼夜抱孺子告祷郊庙，放《大诰》作策，遣谏大夫桓谭等班于天下，谕以摄位当反政孺子之意。
遣王邑、孙建等八将军击义，分屯诸关，守厄塞。
槐里男子赵明、霍鸿等起兵，以和翟义，相与谋曰： 诸将精兵悉东，京师空，可攻长安。
众稍多，至且十万人，莽恐，遣将军王奇、王级将兵拒之。
以太保甄邯为大将军，受钺高庙，领天下兵，左杖节，右把钺，屯城外。
王舜、甄丰昼夜循行殿中。
十二月，王邑等破翟义于圉。
translation: 
The official office of Lord Anhan was called the Regency, the official office was the Regent Palace, and the residence was the Regent Palace.
The memorial was approved.
Wang Mang reported to the Empress Dowager Ming and issued an edict saying: Although the former Grand Master Kong Guang has passed away, his achievements have been arranged.
Taibao Wang Shun, Grand Sikong Zhenfeng, Qingchao General Zhen Han, and Infantry General Sun Jian all made suggestions for the recruitment of Chanyu. They also presided over the construction of a spiritual platform for observing the sky, a Mingtang for grand ceremonies, a central imperial school, and altars in the suburbs. They established systems and opened the Ziwu Road. They worked together with the Prime Minister and made outstanding contributions.
Wang Kuang, the son of Wang Shun, was granted the title of Tongxinhou, Wang Lin was granted the title of Shuodehou, Kongguang's grandson Jieshou was granted the title of Heyihou, and Zhenfeng's grandson Zhenkuang was granted the title of Binglihou.
Zhen Han and Sun Jian were given additional 3,000 households each.
This year, Pang Tian, ​​Fu Fan and others of the Xiqiang people resented Wang Mang for taking away their land as Xihai County, so they counterattacked Cheng Yong, the prefect of Xihai County, and Cheng Yong fled.
Wang Mang killed Cheng Yong and sent the captain to protect the Qiang to attack the Western Qiang.
In the spring of the second year, Dou Kuang and others defeated the Xiqiang.
In May, new currencies were minted: Wrong knives, each worth 5,000 yen; deed knives, worth 500 yen each; large coins, worth 50 yen each, and circulated at the same time as the five baht coins.
There are many people in the private sector who mint currency privately.
Therefore, a ban was issued on people from the princes down to the princes to not carry gold privately. Those who handed it over to the imperial palace could get the same price, but those who handed over the gold never got the coins of the same price.
In September, Zhai Yi, the prefect of Dongjun, took advantage of the day of the general test of knights. He assembled chariots and cavalry, mobilized emergency troops, and elected Liu Xin, Marquis of Yanxiang, as emperor. He sent a message to all counties and feudal states, accusing Wang Mang of poisoning Emperor Ping to death. He acted as emperor and wanted to cut off the Han Dynasty. Now I am ordered by heaven to attack Wang Mang.
The counties and feudal states were shaken, and Zhai Yi's army numbered more than 100,000.
Wang Mang was so frightened that he couldn't eat. He carried the boy to the suburbs and prayed at the ancestral temple day and night, imitating the "Book of Zhou". "Da Gao" wrote a policy book and sent Huan Tan and others to admonish the emperor to announce his intention to act as the emperor and return the power to Ruzi in the future.
Eight generals including Wang Yi and Sun Jian were sent to attack Zhai Yi and stationed at various passes to guard dangerous places.
Tang Ming, Huo Hong and others from Huaili County raised troops to respond to Zhai Yi and conspired with each other: "The generals and elite troops have been sent away, and the capital is empty. We can attack Chang'an."
The army gradually increased and grew to nearly 100,000 people. Wang Mang was afraid and sent generals Wang Qi and Wang Ji to lead their troops to resist them.
He appointed Taibao Zhen Han as the general, awarded him an ax and iron in Gaodi Temple, and led the army of the whole country, holding a knot in his left hand and an ax and cymbal in his right hand, stationed outside the city of Chang'an.
Wang Shun and Zhen Feng patrolled the palace day and night.
In December, Wang Yi and other generals defeated Zhai Yi in Yu County.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
司威陈崇使监军上书言： 陛下奉天洪范，心合宝龟，膺受元命，豫知成败，咸应兆占，是谓配天。
配天之主，虑则移气，言则动物，施则成化。
臣崇伏读诏书下日，窃计其时，圣思始发，而反虏仍破；诏文始书，反虏大败；制书始下，反虏毕斩，众将未及齐其锋芒，臣崇未及尽共愚虑，而事已决矣。
莽大说。
三年春，地震。
大赦天下。
王邑等还京师，西与王级等合击明、鸿，皆破灭，语在《翟义传》。
莽大置酒未央宫白虎殿，劳赐将帅，诏陈崇治校军功，第其高下。
莽乃上奏曰： 明圣之世，国多贤人，故唐、虞之时，可比屋而封，至功成事就，则加赏焉。
至于夏后涂山之会，执玉帛者万国，诸侯执玉，附庸执帛。
周武王孟津之上，尚有八百诸侯。
周公居摄，郊祀后稷以配天，宗祀文王于明堂以配上帝，是以四海之内各以其职来祭，盖诸侯千八百矣。
《礼记·王制》千七百余国，是以孔子著《孝经》曰： 不敢遗小国之臣，而况于公、侯、伯、子、男乎？
故得万国之欢心以事其先王。
此天子之孝也。
秦为亡道，残灭诸侯以为郡县，欲擅天下之利，故二世而亡。
高皇帝受命除残，考功施赏，建国数百，后稍衰微，其余仅存。
太皇太后躬统大纲，广封功德以劝善，兴灭继绝以永世，是以大化流通，旦暮且成。
遭羌寇害西海郡，反虏流言东郡，逆贼惑众西土，忠臣孝子莫不奋怒，所征殄灭，尽备厥辜，天下咸宁。
translation: 
Siwei Chen Chong was sent to supervise the army, and he wrote a memorial saying: Your Majesty adheres to the great law of heaven, his heart is in harmony with the treasure turtle, he accepts the destiny of heaven, predicts success or failure, and all his unpredictable strategies are successful, and his creation is worthy of being worthy of heaven.
A ruler who is wise enough to match the God of Heaven can change people's mental state, make all things move by speaking, and change the social atmosphere by doing things.
Chen Chong, the minister, fell down and read the date of the Shao Shu, secretly calculating the development of the situation. As soon as His Majesty's thoughts sprouted, the rebels were constantly frustrated; as soon as he started writing the Shao Shu, the rebels failed completely; as soon as the book was issued, all the rebels were killed. The generals had no time to show their sharpness in unison, and the minister Chen Chong had no time to offer all his foolish opinions, but the outcome of the incident was already known.
Wang Mang was very happy.
In the spring of three years, an earthquake occurred.
Wang Mang announced a general amnesty for the whole country.
Wang Yi and others returned to Chang'an, the capital, and joined forces with Wang Jie and others to the west to attack Ming Dynasty and Huo Hong, and defeated and eliminated them all. These words are recorded in the "Biography of Zhai Yi".
Wang Mang held a banquet in the White Tiger Hall of Weiyang Palace to reward the generals. Shao ordered Chen Chong to review the military merits and distinguish their high and low grades.
Wang Mang then wrote a memorial saying: In the era of sages, wise men emerged in large numbers in the country, so during the reigns of Tang Yao and Yu Shun, rewards could be given from door to door. When achievements and major events were completed, rewards would be given according to merit.
As for the legend, Xia Yu held a gathering of princes at Tushan, and all the nations were present bringing gifts such as jade and silk. The princes held jade and the subordinate countries held silk.
King Wu of Zhou gathered the princes at Mengjin, and 800 princes participated.
The Duke of Zhou was the regent, and he held sacrifices in the suburbs so that Houji could enjoy the heaven, and held religious sacrifices in the Mingtang so that King Wen could enjoy the gods. Therefore, local officials came to participate in the ceremony with their tributes, and there were about 1,800 princes. "Book of Rites."
There are more than 1,700 countries recorded in the "Kingdom System", so Confucius said in the "Book of Filial Piety": You don't dare to leave out the ministers of a small country, let alone the Duke Bo Zinan?
Therefore, he can win the favor of all nations to sacrifice to his ancestors.
This is the filial piety of the emperor.
The Qin Dynasty was tyrannical and immoral. It eliminated the princes and established counties and counties in order to enjoy the benefits of the world. Therefore, the country perished in only two generations.
Emperor Gaozu accepted the destiny, eliminated the remnants of thieves, assessed merits, implemented rewards, and established hundreds of vassal states. Later, they gradually declined, and only a few were left.
The Empress Dowager personally presided over major political policies, widely awarded people with meritorious deeds and virtues, encouraged people to accumulate virtues and do good deeds, revived the destroyed vassal states, and continued the clans that had been cut off from descendants.
When the Qiang bandits harmed Xihai County, the rebels spread rumors to confuse the people in Shu County, and the rebels confused the people in the western land, all loyal ministers and filial sons were angry. Wherever the army went, all were wiped out, and everyone fully confessed their crimes, and the world was at peace.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
今制礼作乐，实考周爵五等，地四等，有明文；殷爵三等，有其说，无其文。
孔子曰： 周监于二代，郁郁乎文哉！
吾从周。 臣请诸将帅当受爵邑者爵五等，地四等。
奏可。
于是封者高为侯、伯，次为子、男，当赐爵关内侯者更名曰附城，凡数百人。
击西海者以 羌 为号，槐里以 武 为号，翟义以 虏 为号。
群臣复奏言： 太后修功录德，远者千载，近者当世，或以文封，或以武爵，深浅大小，靡不毕举。
今摄皇帝背依践祚，宜异于宰国之时，制作虽未毕已，宜进二子爵皆为公。
《春秋》 善善及子孙 ， 贤者之后，宜有土地 。
成王广封周公庶子六人，皆有茅土。
及汉家名相大将萧、霍之属，咸及支庶。
兄子光，可先封为列侯；诸孙，制度毕已，大司徒、大司空上名，如前诏书。
太后诏曰： 进摄皇帝子褒新侯安为新举公，赏都侯临为褒新公，封光为衍功侯。
是时，莽还归新都国，群臣复白以封莽孙宗为新都侯。
莽既灭翟义，自谓威德日盛，获天人助，遂谋即真之事矣。
九月，莽母功显君死，意不在哀，令太后诏议其服。
少阿、羲和刘歆与博士诸儒七十八人皆曰： 居摄之义，所以统立天功，兴崇帝道，成就法度，安辑海内也。
昔殷成汤既没，而太子蚤夭，其子太甲幼少不明，伊尹放诸桐宫而居摄，以兴殷道。
周武王既没，周道未成，成王幼少，周公屏成王而居摄，以成周道。
是以殷有翼翼之化，周有刑错之功。
今太皇太后比遭家之不造，委任安汉公宰尹群僚，衡平天下。
遭孺子幼少，未能共上下，皇天降瑞，出丹石之符，是以太皇太后则天明命，诏安汉公居摄践祚，将以成圣汉之业，与唐、虞三代比隆也。
摄皇帝遂开秘府，会群儒，制礼作乐，卒定庶官，茂成天功。
圣心周悉，卓尔独见，发得周礼，以明因监，则天稽古，而损益焉，犹仲尼之闻《韶》，日月之不可阶，非圣哲之至，孰能若兹！
纲幻咸张，成在一匮，此其所以保佑圣汉，安靖元元之效也。
今功显君薨，《礼》： 庶子为后，为其母緦。
传曰： 与尊者为体，不敢服其私亲也。摄皇帝以圣德承皇天之命，受太后之诏居摄践祚，奉汉大宗之后，上有天地社稷之重，下有元元万机之忧，不得顾其私亲。
故太皇太后建厥元孙，俾侯新都，为哀侯后。
明摄皇帝与尊者为体，承宗庙之祭，奉共养太皇太后，不得服其私亲也。
《周礼》曰 王为诸侯緦縗 ， 弁而加环绖 ，同姓则麻，异姓则葛。
摄皇帝当为功显君緦縗，弁而加麻环绖，如天子吊诸侯服，以应圣制。
莽遂行焉，凡一吊再会，而令新都侯宗为主，服丧三年云。
translation: 
Nowadays, the etiquette system is established, music and music are created, and we objectively examine the Zhou Dynasty. There are five levels of nobility and four levels of fiefdom, which are clearly recorded in written records. There are three levels of nobility in the Yin Dynasty. There are explanations in the legends, but there is no text in the scriptures.
Confucius said: The system of the Zhou Dynasty was established based on the systems of the Xia and Shang dynasties. How rich and beautiful it is!
I support the Zhou system, and I request that all generals should obtain titles and fiefs. The titles should be divided into five levels, and the fiefs should be divided into four levels.
The memorial was approved.
Therefore, the highest ranking people were marquis and earl, followed by viscount and baron. Those who should be granted the title of Marquis of Guannei should be given the title of Fucheng. There were several hundred people in total.
Those who attack Xihai County are called Qiang, those who attack Huaili County are called Wu, and those who attack Zhai Yi are called Lu.
The ministers reported again: The Queen Mother praised meritorious people and recorded virtuous people, dating back thousands of years and as recently as the current dynasty. Some people were awarded awards because of their literary virtues, and some people were awarded titles because of their martial arts. Regardless of their seniority and merit, there was no one who was not exempt from awards.
Now that Duke Anhan is the acting emperor with his back on the ax-shaped screen and ascends the throne as regent, it should be different from when he was the prime minister. Although the ceremony and music have not been completely completed, his two sons should be promoted to the title of Duke.
"Spring and Autumn" says that loving a good person extends to his descendants, and the descendants of a virtuous person should enjoy the land.
King Cheng of Zhou granted the six concubines of Duke Zhou with fiefdoms.
There are also the famous Han Dynasty prime minister Xiao He, the famous general Huo Guang and others, all of whom are en and their relatives.
For his nephew Wang Guang, he can be granted the title of marquis first; his grandsons can wait until all the rituals and music are completed, and Da Situ and Da Sikong will report their names and handle them according to the previous edict.
The Empress Dowager went down to Shao and said: The newly promoted emperor's son, Wang An, will be the new Duke. Wang Lin, the Marquis of the Capital, will be the new Duke. Wang Guang will be granted the title of Yan Gonghou.
At this time, Wang Mang returned the new capital, and the ministers reported and requested that Wang Mang's grandson Wang Zong be granted the title of new capital lord.
Wang Mang had already eliminated Zhai Yi, and thought that his prestige and virtue were growing day by day, and that he had received the help of God's will and people's will, so he began to plan to ascend to the true throne.
In September, Wang Mang's mother Gong Xianjun passed away. Instead of expressing his grief, Wang Mang asked the Queen Mother to order relevant departments to discuss the issue of his mourning clothes.
Doctors Shao'a, Xi, Liu Xinhe, and seventy-eight Confucian scholars all said: The regent should lead the people of the world to complete the mission of God, carry forward the emperor's cause, establish and improve laws and regulations, and stabilize the situation of the country.
Once upon a time, after the death of Chengtang of the Yin Shang Dynasty, and the prince had long since died, his son Taijia was young and immature and ignorant. Yi Yin exiled him to Tong Palace and became regent to revitalize the national highway of the Yin Shang Dynasty.
After the death of King Wu of Zhou, the orthodoxy of the Zhou Dynasty had not yet been established. King Cheng of Zhou was young, so the Duke of Zhou became the king and served as regent to complete the orthodoxy of the Zhou Dynasty.
Therefore, the Yin Shang Dynasty had a neat and solemn education, while the Zhou Dynasty had the merits of no punishment and empty prisons.
Now the Empress Dowager is encountering adversities in the royal family one after another, and appoints Duke Anhan to supervise all officials and govern the world fairly.
When the child was young and could not serve the heaven and earth respectfully, the sky sent down an auspicious omen, and the talisman of the white stone appeared. Therefore, the Empress Dowager followed the law of heaven and the will of heaven, and ordered An Mogong to serve as regent and act as the emperor. He will be relied on to complete the great achievements of the Han Dynasty, comparable to Tang Yao, Yu Shun, Xia, Shang, and Zhou.
The emperor then opened his secret palace, summoned Confucian scholars, made rituals and music, and finally formulated a system of hundreds of officials and ministers, successfully completing the mission of heaven.
With his keen mind, careful observation, and outstanding unique insights, he discovered the etiquette system of the Zhou Dynasty, and thus clarified the basis for inheritance and reference. He studied the ancient system according to the laws of heaven, and made deletions and additions, just like Zhongni appreciating "Shao Le".
The general outline and essentials have been established, and success is imminent. This is the effect of supporting the Han Dynasty and stabilizing the people.
Now that Gong Xianjun has passed away, the "Rituals" says that the concubine has become the heir and keeps the hemp cloth for his biological mother.
It is said that after becoming one with his father and aunt, he no longer dared to defend his biological mother. The acting emperor relied on the virtues of the saints, adhered to the will of the emperor, accepted the Queen Mother's Shaoling to serve as regent, exercised the imperial power on behalf of the emperor, inherited the direct line of the Han Dynasty, and shouldered the important task of serving the world and governing the country.
Therefore, the Empress Dowager made his eldest grandson the new capital lord and the heir of Aihou.
This means that the emperor of the modern era has become one with the distinguished clan members of the Han Dynasty. He must respectfully preside over the ancestral temple rituals, worship and support the empress dowager, and cannot wear mourning clothes for his biological mother.
"The Rites of Zhou" says: The king wears gill-coat clothes for the princes, and adds a filial piety belt around the dragon crown. The princes with the same surname use hemp belt, and the princes with different surnames use Ge belt.
The acting emperor should wear gills and robes for the emperor who has made great achievements, and add a filial piety belt made of linen around the crown and hat, just like the mourning clothes used by the emperor to mourn the princes, in order to comply with the system of the holy king.
So Wang Mang implemented the above method, a total of one hanging and two sessions of funeral process, and let Wang Zong, the new capital prince, decide the funeral person and wear mourning clothes for three years.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
司威陈崇奏，衍功侯光私报执金吾窦况，令杀人，况为收系，致其法。
莽大怒，切责光。
光母曰： 女自视孰与长孙、中孙？
遂母子自杀，及况皆死。
初，莽以事母、养嫂、抚兄子为名，及后悖虐，复以示公义焉。
令光子嘉嗣爵为侯。
莽下书曰： 遏密之义，讫于季冬，正月郊祀，八音当奏。
王公卿士，乐凡几等？
五声八音，条各云何？
其与所部儒生各尽精思，悉陈其义。
是岁，广饶侯刘京，车骑将军千人扈云、太保属臧鸿奏符命。
京言齐郡新井，云言巴郡石牛，鸿言扶风雍石，莽皆迎受。
十一月甲子，莽上奏太后曰：
陛下至圣，遭家不造，遇汉十二世三七之厄，承天威命，诏臣莽居摄，受孺子之托，任天下之寄。
臣莽兢兢业业，惧于不称。
宗室广饶侯刘京上书言： 七月中，齐郡临淄县昌兴亭长辛当一暮数梦，曰： 吾，天公使也。
天公使我告亭长曰： 摄皇帝当为真。
即不信我，此亭中当有新井。
亭长晨起视亭中，诚有新井，入地且百尺。 十一月壬子，直建冬至，巴郡石牛，戊午，雍石文，皆到于未央宫之前殿。
臣与太保安阳侯舜等视，天风起，尘冥，风止，得铜符帛图于右前，文曰：天告帝符，献者封侯。
承天命，用神令。
骑都尉崔发等视说。
及前孝哀皇帝建平二年六月甲子下诏书，更为太初元将元年，案其本事，甘忠可、夏贺良谶书臧兰台。
translation: 
Siwei Chen Chong reported that Yan Gong Hou Wang Guang privately told Zhi Jinwu Shi Ji and taught him to kill for him. Shi Ji arrested the man and sentenced him to death and beheading.
Wang Mang was furious and scolded Wang Guang severely.
Wang Guang's mother said: Which one do you think is closer to Wang Yu or Wang Huozhong?
The mother and son committed suicide as a result, and even the real person died.
At first, Wang Mang gained a good reputation by serving his mother, supporting his widowed sister-in-law, and raising his nephew. Later, when he became arrogant and cruel, he used this to show his fairness and selflessness.
Let Wang Guang's son Wang Jia inherit the title and become Ding Yangonghou.
Wang Mang wrote a letter saying: The rule prohibiting playing music will end at the end of the twelfth lunar month of this year, and all musical instruments can be played during the first lunar month of next year to offer sacrifices to heaven and earth.
What are the grades of music used by princes, kings, princes, ministers, and scholar-bureaucrats?
Five tones and eight tones, what is each one?
You and the Confucian scholars you belong to should try your best to think about them and state their meaning in detail.
In this year, Liu Jing, the Marquis of Guangrao, Hu Yun, the general of chariots and cavalry, and Zang Hong, the Taibao officer, reported their orders.
Liu Jing said that a new well suddenly appeared in Qi County, Hu Yun said that a stone cow was found in Ba County, and Zang Hong said that an immortal stone was found in Yong County, Fufeng. Wang Mang readily accepted it.
On Jiazi Day in November, Wang Mang wrote a memorial to the Queen Mother:
Your Majesty is the most sage and wise. When the royal family was in adversity, faced with the dangerous fate of the 12th generation of the Han Dynasty for 210 years, and accepting the majestic order of heaven, he ordered Wang Mang to serve as regent, act on behalf of the emperor, accept the commission of Fu Ruzi, and shoulder the great hope of the world.
The minister Wang Mang works hard, fearing that he will be incompetent.
Liu Jing, Marquis of Guangrao in the royal family, wrote to him: In mid-July, Xin Dang, the head of Changxing Pavilion in Linzi County, Qi County, had several dreams one night. He dreamed that someone said to him: I am the messenger of the Emperor of Heaven.
The Emperor of Heaven sent me to tell the pavilion chief: The acting emperor should become the real emperor.
If you don't believe me, a new well will appear in this pavilion.
The director of the pavilion got up in the morning and looked at the pavilion. There was indeed a new well, which was nearly a hundred feet underground. On Renzi day in November, when Jianchen met the winter solstice, the stone oxen from Bajun, Wuwu day, and Yong's stone inscriptions were all sent to the front hall of Weiyang Palace.
I went to watch with Tai Baoyang Marquis Wang Shun and others. Suddenly there was a strong wind in the sky, dust was flying, and the sky was dark. When the wind stopped, I saw a copper talisman letter and pictures and characters written on silk in front of the two stones. The content was: God notified the emperor of the talisman's fate, and the person who presented it could be made a marquis.
Accept destiny and carry out divine orders.
Cavalry Captain Cui Fa and others read the full text and explained its meaning.
In the past, Emperor Xiaoai issued an edict on Jiazi in June of the second year of Jianping, changing it to the first year of Taichu Yuanjiang. To examine the process of Emperor Xiaoai's change to Yuan Dynasty, Gan Zhongke and Xia Heliang's mysterious prophecies and omens were hidden in Lantai.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
臣莽以为元将元年者，大将居摄改元之文也。于今信矣。
《尚书·康诰》 王若曰： 孟侯，朕其弟，小子封。
此周公居摄称王之文也。
《春秋》隐公不言即位，摄也。
此二经周公、孔子所定，盖为后法。
孔子曰： 畏天命，畏大人，畏圣人之言。
臣莽敢不承用！
臣请共事神祇宗庙，奏言太皇太后、孝平皇后，皆称假皇帝。
其号令天下，天下奏言事，毋言 摄 。
以居摄三年为初始元年，漏刻以百二十为度，用应天命。
臣莽夙夜养育隆就孺子，令与周之成王比德，宣明太皇太后威德于万方，期于富而教之。
孺子加元服，复子明辟，如周公故事。
奏可。
众庶知其奉符命，指意群臣博议别奏，以视即真之渐矣。
期门郎张充等六人谋共劫莽，立楚王。
发觉，诛死。
梓潼人哀章，学问长安，素无行，好为大言。
见莽居摄，即作铜匮，为两检，置其一曰 天帝行玺金匮图 ，其一署曰 赤帝行玺某传予黄帝金策书 。
某者，高皇帝名也。
书言王莽为真天子，皇太后如天命。
图书皆书莽大臣八兴，又取令名王兴、王盛，章因自窜姓名，凡为十一人，皆署官爵，为辅佐。
章闻齐井、石牛事下，即日皆时，衣黄衣，持匮至高庙，以付仆射。
仆射以闻。
戊辰，莽至高庙拜受金匮神嬗。
御王冠，谒太后，还坐未央宫前殿，下书曰： 予以不德，托于皇初祖考黄帝之后，皇始祖考虞帝之苗裔，而太皇太后之末属。
translation: 
Wang Mang, the minister, believed that the meaning of the first year of the Yuan Dynasty was a sign that the general would take over as regent and change the Yuan Dynasty, and it has come true today.
"Shang Shu. "Kang Gao" records that Wang Zhougong said this: The leader of the princes is my younger brother, Ji Feng.
This is a record of Zhou Gong being called king when he was the regent.
"Spring and Autumn" describes that Duke Yin of Lu did not say that he was the king of the country, because he was acting for Lord Lu.
These two scriptures were compiled by Zhou Gong and Liaozi, and were imitated by later generations.
Confucius said: We are afraid of destiny, afraid of people with high status, and afraid of the words of saints.
How dare your minister, Wang Mang, not uphold and implement it!
I request that when I serve the gods and ancestral temples respectfully and report to the Empress Dowager and Empress Xiaoping, I will call myself the false emperor.
However, when issuing orders to the whole country, presenting reports to the people of the world, or discussing political affairs, they are not said to be "agents."
Taking the third year of residence as the first year, the timing was changed to 120 degrees to comply with the destiny.
The minister Wang Mang must train and educate the children day and night so that they can be comparable to King Cheng of Zhou. He will spread the reputation and virtues of the Empress Dowager to all directions, hoping that they will be rich and educated.
After the child reaches adulthood and is crowned, the emperor's power is returned to him, just like Zhou Gong did back then.
The memorial was approved.
When the common people learned that he believed in the talisman, they signaled the ministers to discuss it widely and reported to the Queen Mother respectively. This showed the development trend of ascending to the true throne.
Qi Meng Zhang Chong and other six people planned to kidnap Wang Mang and make King Chu the emperor.
If discovered, he will be executed.
Aizhang, a native of Zitong County, studied in Chang'an. He always had bad conduct and liked to brag.
When he saw that Wang Mang had assumed the power of the emperor, he made a copper cabinet and wrote two inscriptions on the seal. One of them said "Picture of the Golden Chamber with the Seal of the Emperor of Heaven", and the other said "The Seal of the Red Emperor passed to the Yellow Emperor's Golden Policy Book".
The so-called "someone" is the name of Liu Bang, the founder of the Han Dynasty.
The document said that Wang Mang was the true emperor and the empress dowager should act according to the will of heaven.
The pictures and books show that Wang Mang's eight ministers were named Wang Xing and Wang Sheng. Aizhang then adapted and fabricated the names himself, making a total of eleven people. They were all signed with official titles and titles, and they were ministers who assisted the country in its affairs.
When Aizhang heard about the news about Xijing in Qijun and Shiniu in Bajun, at dusk that day, he wore yellow clothes and carried a copper cabinet to Gaodi Temple and handed it to Pushe.
Pu She reported the matter.
On Wuchen Day, Wang Mang went to the Gaodi Temple to receive the copper cabinet that was destined to hold the throne.
Wearing the crown, he paid homage to the Queen Mother, came back and sat in the front hall of Weiyang Palace. He wrote in a letter to Shao Shu: I have a shallow moral character, but I am fortunate to be a descendant of Emperor Kao Huang, the first ancestor of the emperor, a descendant of Emperor Kao Yu, the first ancestor of the emperor, and a minor relative of the Empress Dowager.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
皇天上帝隆显大佑，成命统序，符契图文，金匮策书，神明诏告，属予以天下兆民。
赤帝汉氏高皇帝之灵，承天命，传国金策之书，予甚祇畏，敢不钦受！
以戊辰直定，御王冠，即真天子位，定有天下之号曰 新 。
其改正朔，易服色，变牺牲，殊徽帜，异器制。
以十二月朔癸酉为建国元年正月之朔，以鸡鸣为时。
服色配德上黄，牺牲应正用白，使节之旄幡皆纯黄，其署曰 新使王威节 ，以承皇天上帝威命也。
translation: 
The Emperor and Heaven have given me great grace and blessings, and the established destiny has allowed me to inherit the throne. The talismans, books and texts, as well as the policy books in the copper cabinet, are all instructions from the gods, entrusting me with the fate of millions of people in the world.
Thanks to the spirit of the Red Emperor and the Gao Emperor of the Han Dynasty, and adhering to the destiny of God, I am afraid of giving up the throne to Jin Ce Shu. I am in awe and dare not to accept it respectfully!
On Wuchen day, when Dingchen comes, I put on the crown, ascend the throne of the True Dragon Emperor, and declare the new country.
The first day of the first lunar month should be changed, the colors of carriages, horses and clothing should be changed, the coat color of animals used for sacrifice should be changed, signs such as flags should be changed, and the shapes of utensils should be redesigned.
The first day of December this year is regarded as the first day of the first lunar month of the founding of the People's Republic of China, and the day starts with the rooster's crow.
The color of carriages, horses, and clothing is yellow. The animals used for sacrifices and the first month of the year should be white. The yak tails used for decoration on the envoys are all pure yellow, with the words "New Envoys and Five Powers Festival" written on them to show the majesty of the emperor.


