Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 2, 2, 5, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 9]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
郑兴字少赣，河南开封人也。
少学《公羊春秋》。晚善《左氏传》，遂积精深思，通达其旨，同学者皆师之。
天凤中，将门人从刘歆讲正大义，歆美兴才，使撰条例、章句、传诂，及校《三统历》。
更始立，以司直李松行丞相事，先入长安，松以兴为长史，令还奉迎迁都。
更始诸将皆山东人，咸劝留洛阳。
兴说更始曰： 陛下起自荆楚，权政未施，一朝建号，而山西雄桀争诛王莽，开关郊迎者，何也？
此天下同苦王氏虐政，而思高祖之旧德也。
今久不抚之，臣恐百姓离心，盗贼复起矣。
《春秋》书 齐小白入齐 ，不称侯，未朝庙故也。
今议者欲先定赤眉而后入关，是不识其本而争其末，恐国家之守转在函谷，虽卧洛阳，庸得安枕乎？
更始曰： 朕西决矣。
拜兴为谏议大夫，使安集关西及朔方、凉、益三州，还拜凉州刺史。
会天水有反者，攻杀郡守，兴坐免。
时赤眉入关，东道不通，兴乃西归隗嚣，嚣虚心礼请，而兴耻为之屈，称疾不起。
嚣矜己自饰，常以为西伯复作，乃与诸将议自立为王。
兴闻而说嚣曰： 《春秋传》云： 口不道忠信之言为嚣，耳不听五声之和为聋。
间者诸将集会，无乃不道忠信之言；大将军之听，无乃阿而不察乎？
昔文王承积德之绪，加之以睿圣，三分天下，尚服事殷。及武王即位，八百诸侯不谋同会，皆曰 纣可伐矣 ，武王以未知天命，还兵待时。
高祖征伐累年，犹以沛公行师。
今令德虽明，世无宗周之祚，威略虽振，未有高祖之功，而欲举未可之事，昭速祸患，无乃不可乎？
translation: 
◆Zheng Xingzhuan, Zheng Xing, courtesy name Shaogan, was born in Kaifeng, Henan.
He studied "Gongyang Chunqiu" when he was young, and "Zuo Shi Zhuan" in his later years. He accumulated knowledge, thought deeply, and understood the gist of the book. All his classmates regarded Zheng as their teacher.
During the Tianfeng period, he led his students to teach Liu Xin the meaning of "Zuo Shi Zhuan". Liu Xin praised Zheng Xing's talent and asked Zheng Xing to write regulations, chapters, exegesis, and correct "Santong Li".
When Gengshi came to the throne, he appointed Si Zhi Li Song as acting prime minister and entered Chang'an first. Li Song appointed Zheng Xing as chief historian and sent him back to pick up the emperor and move the capital.
Some of the generals in Gengshi were from Shandong, and they all advised him to stay in Luoyang.
Zheng Xing advised the emperor: Your Majesty raised troops from Jingchu, and the government had not yet been implemented. Once the country was established, the heroes of Shanxi were vying to kill Wang Mang, and opened the door to welcome Your Majesty in the suburbs. What was the purpose?
This is because the people of the world were suffering from Wang Mang's tyranny and missed the old virtues of Han Emperor Gaozu.
If you don't appease the people for a long time now, I'm afraid that the people will be alienated and thieves will rise again.
"Spring and Autumn" records that Duke Huan of Qi ascended the throne as "Qi Xiaobai enters Qi", but is not called Qi Hou because he has not yet gone to the temple to worship his ancestors.
Those who are discussing now want to pacify Chimei first and then enter the pass. They do not know the root and fight for the ends. I am afraid that the country's guards will be transferred to Hangu Pass. Even if they sleep in Luoyang, how can they be content with pillow mats?
Emperor Gengshi said: I have made up my mind to go west.
He worshiped Zheng Xing as an admonishment official and sent him to gather in Guanxi, Shuofang, Liangzhou and Yizhou. After returning, he worshiped him as the governor of Liangzhou.
It happened that someone rebelled in Tianshui and attacked and killed the county guard. Zheng Xing was dismissed from his post.
At that time, Chimei entered the pass and the road to the east was blocked, so Zheng Xing went west to join Kaixiao. Weixiao humbly invited Zheng with courtesy, but Zheng Xing felt aggrieved and said he could not afford to be ill.
Wei Xiao boasted about himself and often compared himself to King Wen of Zhou, so he discussed with the generals and established himself as king.
When Zheng Xing heard about it, he dissuaded Wei Xiao and said: "Spring and Autumn" legend: It is called deafness if the mouth does not speak the words of loyalty, and the ear does not hear the sum of the five tones.
In recent gatherings of generals, could it be that they did not speak words of loyalty? If the general obeyed, could it be that he lacked detailed inspection?
In the past, King Wen of Zhou inherited the moral legacy of his ancestors, coupled with his own intelligence, he was able to serve the Yin Shang Dynasty even if he was two-thirds of the world. When King Wu came to the throne, eight hundred princes unexpectedly gathered in Mengjin, and they all said that Shang Zhou was ready to attack. King Wu of Zhou believed that destiny was still unknown, so he returned to his army and waited for the right time.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty had been campaigning for many years, and he also marched in the name of Pei Gong.
Now, although your virtue is clear, it does not have the blessings of the Zhou Dynasty. Although Weiluo is very prosperous, it does not have the merits of the Han Emperor. If you want to launch unachievable undertakings, you will accelerate disaster. I'm afraid you can't do it!
summary:
Zheng Xing, courtesy name Shaogan, was born in Kaifeng, Henan. He studied "Gongyang Chunqiu" in his youth and later "Zuo Shi Zhuan," becoming so knowledgeable that his classmates regarded him as their teacher. During the Tianfeng period, he taught Liu Xin the meaning of "Zuo Shi Zhuan." When Gengshi ascended the throne, Zheng Xing served as chief historian and advised the emperor to move west to Chang'an rather than stay in Luoyang, arguing that the people missed Han virtues and that delaying would cause alienation and rebellion. Gengshi appointed him as an admonishment official and later governor of Liangzhou.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
惟将军察之。
嚣竟不称王。
后遂广置职位，以自尊高。
兴复止嚣曰： 夫中郎将、太中大夫、使持节官皆王者之器，非人臣所当制也。
孔子曰： 惟器与名，不可以假人。
不可以假人者，亦不可以假于人也。
无益于实，有损于名，非尊上之意也。
嚣病之而止。
及嚣遣子恂入侍，将行，兴因恂求归葬父母，嚣不听而徙兴舍，益其秩礼。
兴入见嚣曰： 前遭赤眉之乱，以将军僚旧，故敢归身明德。
幸蒙覆载之恩，复得全其性命。
兴闻事亲之道，生事之以礼，死葬之以礼，祭之以礼，奉以周旋，弗敢失坠。
今为父母未葬，请乞骸骨，若以增秩徙舍，中更停留，是以亲为饵，无礼甚矣，将军焉用之！
嚣曰： 嚣将不足留故邪？
兴曰： 将军据七郡之地，拥羌胡之众，以戴本朝，德莫厚焉，威莫重焉。
居则为专命之使，入必为鼎足之臣。
兴，从俗者也，不敢深居屏处，因将军求进，不患不达，因将军求入，何患不亲，此兴之计不逆将军者也。
兴业为父母请，不可以已，愿留妻子独归葬，将军又何猜焉？
嚣曰： 幸甚。
促为辨装，遂令与妻子俱东。
时建武六年也。
侍御史杜林先与兴同寓陇右，乃荐之曰： 窃见河南郑兴，执义坚固，敦悦《诗》、《书》，好古博物，见疑不惑，有公孙侨、观射父之德，宜侍帷幄，典职机密。
昔张仲在周，燕冀宣王，而诗人悦喜。
惟陛下留听少察，以助万分。
乃征为太中大夫。
明年三月晦，日食。
兴因上疏曰：《春秋》以天反时为灾，地反物为妖，人反德为乱，乱则妖灾生。
往年以来，谪咎连见，意者执事颇有阙焉。
translation: 
I hope the general will consider this carefully.
Wei Xiao finally did not claim the throne.
Later, official positions were widely set up to enhance their prestige.
Zheng Xing stopped Wei Xiao again and said: "Those generals, ministers, and envoys are all the king's chariot uniforms, not what a minister should have."
Confucius said: Only the vessel and the name can be lent to others.
You cannot lend things to others, and you cannot borrow things from others.
It is not beneficial to practice, it is harmful to reputation, and it does not respect the emperor's intention.
Wei Xiao felt embarrassed and stopped.
When Wei Xiao called his son Wei Xun to serve as a servant and was about to leave, Zheng Xing asked Wei Xun to go home and bury his parents. Wei Xiao refused and moved to Zheng Xing's house to increase his official rank and etiquette.
Zheng Xingjin met with Kui Xiao and said: "I suffered from the Red Eyebrow Rebellion in the past, and because of my old relationship with the generals, I took the liberty to ask to go home to Mingde."
Fortunately, thanks to the great grace of heaven and earth, his life was saved.
I heard the principle of serving relatives is to support parents with etiquette when they are alive, bury them with etiquette after their parents die, and pay homage to them with etiquette. Observe these etiquettes and dare not violate them in the slightest.
Now, because my parents have not yet been buried, I am requesting to retire and return to my hometown. If I increase my official rank and move the house, there will be a lot of delay in the process. This is using my parents as bait, which is too rude. How could the general do this?
Wei Xiao said: Am I not worthy of retaining my old friend?
Zheng Xing said: The general occupies the land of seven counties and has Qiang and Hu people to support this dynasty. There is no more virtue and no more power.
When he is stationed, he is a dedicated ambassador, and when he enters the court, he is a powerful minister.
I, a secular person, do not dare to stay in the depths, seek advancement through the general, and do not worry about not achieving my goal; I entrust the general to seek entry into the court, and do not worry about not receiving the favor personally. This is why I do not go against the general's plan!
I have asked on behalf of my parents not to stop like this. I would like to keep my wife and bury me alone. Why should the general be suspicious?
Wei Xiao said: This is great.
So he urged him to pack his luggage and asked him to go eastward with his wife.
This happened in the sixth year of Jianwu.
Du Lin, the imperial censor, lived with Zheng Xing in Longyou. Du Lin recommended Zheng Xing: I saw that Zheng Xing of Henan Province adheres to justice, likes poetry and books, is knowledgeable, has a firm mind, and has the virtues of Gongsun Qiao and Guan She's father. He should stay with the emperor and master the secrets of the country.
Once upon a time, Zhang Zhong assisted King Zhou Xuan in the Zhou Dynasty, and the poet was very happy.
I hope your Majesty will pay close attention and share your efforts with you.
So Zheng Xing was recruited as Taizhong doctor.
There was a solar eclipse on March 30th of the following year.
Zheng Xing then went to Shudao and said: "Spring and Autumn" believes that when the sky rebels against the time, disasters will occur, when the earth rebels against things, it will become demons, when people rebel against virtue, it will be chaos, and chaos will lead to demon disasters.
Since the past few years, strange phenomena have appeared one after another, and it is assumed that there is a flaw in the service.
summary:
After being dismissed following a rebellion in Tianshui, Zheng Xing joined Wei Xiao. When Wei Xiao considered declaring himself king, Zheng Xing dissuaded him by citing historical examples of King Wen of Zhou and Emperor Gaozu of Han, warning that such ambition would bring disaster. He also advised against establishing excessive official positions. When Wei Xiao refused to let Zheng Xing return home to bury his parents, Zheng Xing argued that using his parents as leverage was improper, and Wei Xiao eventually relented.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
案《春秋》 昭公十七年夏六月甲戌朔，日有食之 。
传曰： 日过分而未至，三辰有灾，于是百官降物，君不举，避移时，乐奏鼓，祝用币，史用辞。
今孟夏，纯乾用事，阴气未作，其灾尤重。
夫国无善政，则谪见日月，变咎之来，不可不慎，其要在因人之心，择人处位也。
尧知鲧不可用而用之者，是屈己之明，因人之心也。
齐桓反政而相管仲，晋文归国而任郤者，是不私其私，择人处位也。
今公卿大夫多举渔阳太守郭亻及可大司空者，而不以时定，道路流言，咸曰 朝廷欲用功臣 ，功臣用则人位谬矣。
愿陛下上师唐、虞，下览齐、晋，以成屈己从众之德，以济群臣让善之功。
夫日月交会，数应在朔，而顷年日食，每多在晦。
先时而合，皆月行疾也。
日君象而月臣象，君亢急则臣下促迫，故行疾也。
今年正月繁霜，自尔以来，率多寒日，此亦急咎之罚。
天子贤圣之君，犹慈父之于孝子也。丁宁申戒，欲其反政，故灾变仍见，此乃国之福也。
今陛下高明而群臣惶促，宜留思柔克之政，垂意《洪范》之法，博采广谋，纳群下之策。书奏，多有所纳。
帝尝问兴郊祀事，曰： 吾欲以谶断之，何如？
兴对曰： 臣不为谶。
帝怒曰： 卿之不为谶，非之邪？
兴惶恐曰： 臣于书有所未学，而无所非也。
帝意乃解。
兴数言政事，依经守义，文章温雅，然以不善谶故不能任。
九年，使监征南、积弩营于津乡，会征南将军岑彭为刺客所杀，兴领其营，遂与大司马吴汉俱击公孙述。
述死，诏兴留屯成都。
顷之，侍御史举奏兴奉使私买奴婢，坐左转莲勺令。
是时丧乱之余，郡县残荒，兴方欲筑城郭，修礼教以化之，会以事免。
兴好古学，尤明《左氏》、《周官》，长于历数，自杜林、桓谭、卫宏之属，莫不斟酌焉。
世言《左氏》者多祖于兴，而贾逵自传其父业，故有郑、贾之学。
及顺帝立，安世已卒，追赐钱、帛，除子亮为郎。众曾孙公业，自有传。范升字辩卿，代郡人也。
少孤，依外家居。
九岁通《论语》、《孝经》，及长，习《梁丘易》、《老子》，教授后生。
王莽大司空王邑辟升为议曹史。
时莽频发兵役，征赋繁兴，升乃奏记邑曰： 升闻子以人不间于其父母为孝，臣以下不非其君上为忠。
今众人咸称朝圣，皆曰公明。
translation: 
According to "Spring and Autumn", there was a solar eclipse on the first day of the first month of Jiashu in the summer of June of the seventeenth year of Lu Zhaogong.
Ancient books say: If the sun goes too far but does not arrive, there will be disasters in the sun, moon and stars. Therefore, all the officials will wear plain clothes, the king will not feast, and will avoid sleeping during the solar eclipse. When the solar eclipse is over, the musicians will play drums, the temple will give coins to the community, and the historian will use words to blame himself.
Now is the time of Mengxia, which is purely for practical purposes. The Yin Qi has not yet occurred, and the disaster will be more serious.
If the country does not have good governance, God's will will be expressed in the sun and moon. When trouble comes, one must be cautious. The key is to choose the right officials based on people's hearts.
In ancient times, Emperor Yao used Gun because he knew he was useless.
Duke Huan of Qi ignored old grudges and appointed Guan Zhong, and Duke Wen of Jin returned to Jin and appointed Gu Tan to seek peace. This was all about choosing people and positions regardless of personal grudges.
Nowadays, many ministers and officials recommend Guo Qianji, the governor of Yuyang, to be the great Sikong, but His Majesty did not make a decision in time. There are many rumors on the road, saying that "the imperial court wants to use meritorious officials", but the meritorious officials are used in the wrong position.
I hope that your majesty will learn from Tang and Yu, and follow the practices of Qi and Jin, so as to achieve the virtue of surrendering to oneself and obeying the crowd, and to promote the good deeds of all ministers.
The conjunction of the sun and the moon is supposed to occur on the first day of each month, but in recent years the solar eclipse usually occurs on the 30th day of the month.
When they come together first and now, the moon moves a little faster.
The sun is a symbol of the king and the moon is a symbol of the ministers. The monarch is anxious and the ministers are anxious, so they move quickly.
There was heavy frost in the first month of this year, and since then it has been mostly cold days. This is also the punishment for quick blame.
God treats a virtuous and sage king as a loving father treats a filial son. Ding Ning warned him and wanted him to reflect on political affairs, so disaster occurred, which was a blessing to the country.
Now that your majesty is wise and your ministers are anxious, you should think more about the policy of soft control, pay attention to the method of "Hong Fan", and listen to opinions widely. Most of the memorials were adopted.
The emperor once asked Zheng Xing about the suburban sacrifice and said: I want to use prophecies to determine it, how about it?
Zheng Xing replied: "I don't understand prophecy."
The emperor said angrily: "If you don't make a prophecy, can you say that the prophecy is wrong?"
Zheng Xing said in fear: "I have never studied prophecies, so I don't think it's wrong."
The emperor's intention was relieved.
Zheng Xing spoke on political affairs many times, followed the scriptures and observed the righteousness, and his articles were gentle and elegant. However, because he did not know how to use prophecies, he could not be reused.
In the ninth year, the emperor sent Zheng Xing to supervise the expedition to the south and Ji Nu camp in Jinxiang. It happened that Cen Peng, the general in charge of the southern expedition, was killed by an assassin. Zheng Xing led his battalion and went with Grand Sima Wu Han to attack Gongsun Shu.
After Gongsun Shu died, the emperor issued an edict to let Zheng Xing stay in Chengdu.
Soon, the imperial censor reported that Zheng Xing was envoys to buy slaves privately, so he was demoted to the position of Lotus Spoon Order.
At this time, after the mourning and chaos, the counties and counties were dilapidated and desolate. Zheng Xing was trying to build a city and cultivate ethics to educate the people, but he was later dismissed from his post due to some circumstances.
Zheng Xing was good at ancient studies, especially the "Zuo Shi" and "Zhou Guan". He was good at calendar calculation. He considered Du Lin, Huan Tan, Wei Hong and others to obtain their will.
Most people who talk about Zuo Shi in the world have Zheng Xing as their ancestor. And Jia Kui autobiographed his father's business, so there is a saying that Zheng and Jia studied it.
After Zheng Xing left Lianshao, he stopped serving as an official. Once he was a guest in the village of Nang. The three princes invited him several times but refused to come out. He died at home. ◆Fan Shengzhuan, Fan Sheng, Yu Bianqing, was from Daijun.
His father died when he was young and he relied on his mother-in-law to make a living.
When he was nine years old, he read "The Analects of Confucius" and "The Classic of Filial Piety". When he was older, he studied "Liangqiu Yi" and "Laozi" and taught the younger generations to learn.
Wang Mang's chief minister, Wang Yi, promoted Fan Sheng to serve as the governor of Cao.
At that time, Wang Mang continued to recruit troops and imposed heavy taxes. Fan Sheng then expressed his opinion to Wang Yi and said: "I heard that if a son does not criticize his parents, it is considered filial, and if a minister does not criticize his superior, it is considered loyal."
Now everyone calls it a pilgrimage, and everyone says that the emperor is fair.
summary:
In the sixth year of Jianwu, Du Lin recommended Zheng Xing to the emperor, praising his knowledge and virtue. Zheng Xing was recruited as Taizhong doctor. After a solar eclipse, he submitted a memorial discussing celestial omens and advising the emperor to select officials based on merit rather than personal grudges. The emperor once asked Zheng Xing about using prophecies for suburban sacrifices, but Zheng Xing admitted he did not understand prophecies, which limited his advancement. In the ninth year, he was sent to supervise military campaigns and later demoted for privately purchasing slaves. He died at home after retiring from official service. Fan Sheng, courtesy name Bianqing, was from Daijun. Orphaned young, he studied "Liangqiu Yi" and "Laozi." During Wang Mang's reign, he criticized the heavy taxes and military conscription, warning that the policies would lead to rebellion. His advice was ignored, and he later joined the Han forces.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
永平中，为聊城令，坐事免，卒于家。
陈元字长孙，苍梧广信人也。
父钦，习《左氏春秋》，事黎阳贾护，与刘歆同时而别自名家。
王莽从钦受《左氏》学，以钦为难将军。
元少传父业，为之训诂，锐精覃思，至不与乡里通。
以父任为郎。
建武初，元与桓谭、杜林、郑兴俱为学者所宗。
时议欲立《左氏传》博士，范升奏以为《左氏》浅末，不宜立。
元闻之，乃诣阙上疏曰：陛下拨乱反正，文武并用，深愍经艺谬杂，真伪错乱，每临朝日，辄延群臣讲论圣道。
知丘明至贤，亲受孔子，而《公羊》、《穀梁》传闻于后世，故诏立《左氏》，博询可否，示不专已，尽之群下也。
今论者沉溺所习，玩守旧闻，固执虚言传受之辞，以非亲见实事之道。
《左氏》孤学少与，遂为异家之所复冒。
夫至音不合众听，故伯牙绝弦；至宝不同众好，故卞和泣血。
仲尼圣德，而不容于世，况于竹帛余文，其为雷同者所排，固其宜也。
非陛下至明，孰能察之！臣元窃见博士范升等所议奏《左氏春秋》不可立，及太史公违戾凡四十五事。
案升等所言，前后相违，皆断小文，黩微辞，以年数小差，掇为巨谬，遗脱纤微，指为大尤。抉瑕衅，掩其弘美，所谓 小辩破言，小言破道 者也。
升等又曰： 先帝不以《左氏》为经，故不置博士，后主所宜因袭。
臣愚以为若先帝所行而后主必行者，则盘庚不当迁于殷，周公不当营洛邑，陛下不当都山东也。
往者，孝武皇帝好《公羊》，卫太子好《穀梁》，有诏诏太子受《公羊》，不得受《梁》，孝宣皇帝在人间时，闻卫太子好《穀梁》，于是独学之。
及即位，为石渠论而《穀梁氏》兴，至今与《公羊》并存。
translation: 
During the Yongping period, he served as the Liaocheng Order. He was dismissed from his post due to some circumstances and died at home.
◆Chen Yuanzhuan, the eldest grandson of Chen Yuan, was born in Guangxin, Cangwu.
His father, Chen Qin, studied "Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals" and served under Liyang Jiahu. He formed his own family at the same time as Liu Xin.
Wang Mang once learned "Zuo Shi" from Chen Qin and named Chen Qin General Qinnan.
When Chen Yuan was young, he passed down his father's studies and made annotations for "Zuo Shi". He concentrated on thinking and did not even interact with the countryside.
He is a man because of his father's position.
In the early years of Jianwu, Chen Yuan, Huan Tan, Du Lin, and Zheng Xing were all considered authentic by scholars at that time.
At that time, some people proposed to establish a doctor of "Zuo Shi Zhuan". Fan Sheng submitted that "Zuo Shi" should not be established since the "Zuo Shi" was shallow.
After hearing this, Chen Yuan went to court to write a memorial: "Your Majesty uses both civil and military forces to correct chaos. He is deeply aware that the classics and art are full of errors and mistakes, and it is difficult to distinguish the true from the false. Every time he comes to court, he often invites his ministers to discuss the holy way."
Knowing that Zuo Qiuming was a very virtuous man and had been personally educated by Confucius, and that "Gongyang" and "Guliang" were rumored to later generations, he issued an edict to establish "Zuo's Family" and widely solicited opinions, saying that he would not use his own opinions and would do whatever he wanted.
Nowadays, commentators are addicted to the knowledge they have learned, clinging to old news, and stubbornly insisting on false words and deeds, thinking that this is not the way to see the reality with one's own eyes.
"Zuo Shi" studied alone and seldom communicated with others, so he was overshadowed by other people.
The best music is not suitable for everyone's hearing, so the strings are cut off; the best gems are not recognized by everyone, so Bian He weeps.
The virtues of Confucius as a sage cannot be found in this world. What's more, it's natural for a piece of writing to be rejected by those who are similar to it!
Unless His Majesty is so wise, who would be able to detect it. I have seen Dr. Fan Sheng's opinion in Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals that he should not establish a doctor, and he listed with him a total of forty-five incidents of Tai Shigong's treason.
According to Sheng et al., any inconsistency is caused by cutting off small pieces of text and making nitpicks. A slight discrepancy in age is regarded as a major mistake. The omission of some small sections is considered a major flaw. It is nitpicking and fault-finding that covers up the beauty. This is exactly what the saying goes: "small arguments break the truth, small words break the truth".
Fan Sheng and others also said: The former emperor did not regard the Zuo family as his classics, so he did not appoint a doctor. It would be appropriate for the later emperor to follow suit.
Chen Yu thought that if the former emperor had done what he had done and the later emperor had to follow it, then Pan Geng should not move to Yindu, Duke Zhou should not camp in Luoyang, and Your Majesty should not make the capital in Shandong.
In the past, Emperor Xiaowu liked "Gongyang" and Prince Wei liked "Guliang". There was an edict telling the prince to accept "Gongyang" but not "Gongliang". When Emperor Xiaoxuan was still alive, he heard that Prince Wei was good at Gu Liang, so he studied it alone.
After he ascended the throne, he discussed the "Five Classics" in Shiqu and the "Guliang" study emerged, which coexists with the "Gongyang" study to this day.
summary:
In the second year of Jianwu, Emperor Guangwu appointed him as a doctor. Fan Sheng declined, recommending two older scholars instead, but the emperor refused. He debated against establishing "Zuo Shi Chunqiu" as an official study, arguing it lacked proper lineage and that establishing it would open the door to other heretical texts. He presented fourteen discrepancies in "Zuo Shi" and thirty-one instances where it contradicted the "Five Classics." Later imprisoned after accusations by his divorced wife, he was released and returned home. He served as Liaocheng Order during Yongping but was dismissed and died at home. Chen Yuan, eldest grandson of his family, was born in Guangxin, Cangwu. He inherited his father Chen Qin's study of "Zuo Shi Chunqiu" and made annotations for it. During the early Jianwu period, he was considered an authentic scholar alongside Huan Tan, Du Lin, and Zheng Xing.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
此先帝后帝各有所立，不必其相因也。
孔子曰，纯，俭，吾从众；至于拜下，则违之。
夫明者独见，不惑于朱紫，听者独闻，不谬于清浊，故离朱不为巧眩移目，师旷不为新声易耳。
方今干戈少弭，戎事略，留思圣艺，眷顾儒雅，采孔子拜下之义，卒渊圣独见之旨，分明白黑，建立《左氏》，解释先圣之积结，洮汰学者之累惑，使基业垂于万世，后进无复狐疑，则天下幸甚。臣元愚鄙，尝传师言。
如得以褐衣召见，俯伏庭下，诵孔氏之正道，理丘明之宿冤；若辞不合经，事不稽古，退就重诛，虽死之日，生之年也。
书奏，下其议，范升复与元相辩难，凡十余上。
帝卒立《左氏》学，太常选博士四人，元为第一。
帝以元新忿争，乃用其次司隶从事李封，于是诸儒以《左氏》之立，论议哗，自公卿以下，数廷争之。
会封病卒，《左氏》复废。
元以才高著名，辟司空李通府。
时，大司农江冯上言，宜令司隶校尉督察三公。
事下三府。
元上疏曰：臣闻师臣者帝，宾臣者霸。
故武王以太公为师，齐桓以夷吾为仲父。
孔子曰： 百官总己听于冢宰。
近则高帝优相国之礼，太宗假宰辅之权。及亡新王莽，遭汉中衰，专操国柄，以偷天下，况已自喻，不信群臣。
夺公辅之任，损宰相之威，以刺举为明，徼讦为直。
至乃陪仆告其君长，子弟变其父兄，罔密法峻，大臣无所措手足。
然不能禁董忠之谋，身为世戮。
故人君患在自骄，不患骄臣；失在自任，不在任人。
是以文王有日昊之劳，周公执吐握之恭，不闻其崇刺举，务督察也。
方今四方尚扰，天下未一，百姓观听，咸张耳目。
陛下宜修文武之圣典，袭祖宗之遗德，劳心下士，屈节待贤，诚不宜使有司察公辅之名。
帝从之，宣下其议。
translation: 
This means that the first emperor and the later emperor each had their own establishment, and there was no need to imitate each other.
Confucius said: Being pure and thrifty, I follow the crowd; as for bowing down, I violate it.
People with clear eyes have unique views and are not fooled by reds and purples; those who are good at listening have unique hearing and are not confused by purity and turbidity. Therefore, those who are away from the red will not be dazzled by clever tricks and their ears will not be changed by new sounds.
Now the fighting has stopped, the war has stopped, pay attention to the scriptures and sages, consider the study of elegance, adopt the meaning of Confucius's obedience, and the purpose of the Yuan sage's unique opinion, distinguish the clear from the black, establish the "Zuo family" school, explain the accumulated connections of the sages, eliminate the confusion of scholars, make the foundation last to all generations, and no longer be suspicious of the latecomers, then the world will be blessed. Chen Yuan is ignorant and once learned from the teacher.
If you can be summoned in coarse cloth, lie down in the court, recite Confucius's righteous way, and explain Qiu Ming's grievances; if your words are not in line with the scriptures, and your actions are not in line with the ancients, and you can retire and accept severe punishment, even if you die, it is still alive.
After the book was handed over and the emperor's instructions were handed over for discussion, Fan Sheng and Chen Yuan debated again, a total of ten times.
The emperor finally established the "Zuo Family" study, and Taichang selected four doctors, Chen Yuan was the first.
The emperor thought that Chen Yuangang had participated in the debate, so he used him as the secretary to record Li Feng's work. As a result, the Confucian scholars discussed it a lot because of the establishment of "Zuo Shi". There were several debates in the court from the public minister down.
When Li Feng died of illness, the "Zuo Shi" theory was abandoned again.
Chen Yuan was famous for his talent and was promoted to Sikong Litong Mansion.
At that time, the chief minister, Nong Jiang and Feng Shangyan, should be called Sili Xiaowei to supervise Sangong.
The matter was reported to the three governments.
Chen Yuanshang Shudao said: I heard that those who treat ministers as teachers can become emperors, and those who treat ministers as guests can dominate.
Therefore, King Wu made Taigong his master, and Duke Huan of Qi made Guan Yiwu his father-in-law.
Confucius said: All officials listen to the chief minister.
In modern times, Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty treated the prime minister preferentially. Taizong rescued Deng Tong from the prime minister and called him "false power." When Wang Mang usurped the throne, the Han Dynasty declined. He only controlled the country and stole the world. He only relied on his own will and did not trust the officials.
To seize the position of public assistant and undermine the power of the prime minister, to expose others is to make it clear, to attack others' shortcomings is to be straightforward.
Even the servants accuse the ruler, the children disobey their fathers and brothers, the network is secretive and the law is strict, and the ministers are at a loss what to do.
However, Dong Zhong could not stop his rebellion and was killed.
Therefore, a ruler's trouble lies in his own pride, not in his arrogant ministers; his failure lies in his own responsibility, not in trusting others.
Therefore, King Wen had to work hard for Rihao to eat, and Duke Zhou had to hold his hair with his hair. I have not heard of any methods of advocating whistleblowing and strengthening inspections.
At present, there is still no peace in the four directions, and the world is not unified enough. The people are waiting and watching, with their eyes and ears wide open.
Your Majesty should cultivate the holy scriptures of civil and military affairs, inherit the virtues left by the ancestors, work hard for the corporal, and treat the virtuous with humility, but he should not be known as a supervisor, supervisor, and assistant to the public.
The emperor obeyed and sent his advice.
summary:
When Fan Sheng opposed establishing "Zuo Shi" as a doctoral study, Chen Yuan submitted a memorial arguing that "Zuo Shi" was personally taught by Confucius to Zuo Qiuming, unlike "Gongyang" and "Guliang." He refuted Fan Sheng's criticisms as nitpicking and argued that later emperors need not follow predecessors' decisions. After ten debates, the emperor established "Zuo Shi" studies, and Chen Yuan became the first of four doctors. However, when Li Feng died, the study was abandoned again. Chen Yuan later served as Sikong Litong's assistant and advised against establishing a supervisory office over the three highest officials, arguing it would undermine trust. He died at home due to old age.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
李通罢，元后复辟司徒欧阳歙府，数陈当世便事、郊庙之礼，帝不能用。
以病去，年老，卒于家。
子坚卿，有文章。贾逵字景伯，扶风平陵人也。
九世祖谊，文帝时为梁王太傅。
曾祖父光，为常山太守，宣帝时以吏二千石自洛阳徙焉。
父徽，从刘歆受《左氏春秋》，兼习《国语》、《周官》，又受《古文尚书》于涂恽，学《毛诗》于谢曼卿，作《左氏条例》二十一篇。
逵悉传父业，弱冠能诵《左氏传》及《五经》本文，以《大夏侯尚书》教授，虽为古学，兼通五家《穀梁》之说。
自为兒童，常在太学，不通人间事。
身长八尺二寸，诸儒为之语曰： 问事不休贾长头。
性恺悌，多智思，俶傥有大节。
尤明《左氏传》、《国语》，为之《解诂》五十一篇，永平中，上疏献之。
显宗重其书，写藏秘馆。
时，有神雀集宫殿宫府，冠羽有五采色，帝异之，以问临邑侯刘复，复不能对，荐逵博物多识，帝乃召见逵，问之。对曰： 昔武王终父之业，鸑鷟在岐，宣帝威怀戎狄，神雀仍集，此胡降之征也。
帝敕兰台给笔札，使用《神雀颂》，拜为郎，与班固并校秘书，应对左右。
肃宗立，降意儒术，特好《古文尚书》、《左氏传》。
建初元年，诏逵入讲北宫白虎观、南宫云台。
帝善逵说，使发出《左氏传》大义长于二传者。
逵于是具条奏之曰：臣谨出《左氏》三十七事尤著明者，斯皆君臣之正义，父子之纪纲。
其余同《公羊》者什有七八，或文简小异，无害大体。
translation: 
After Li Tong was dismissed from office, Chen Yuan was promoted to Situ Ouyang She's Mansion. He stated several times the affairs of the world and the rituals of suburban temples, which the emperor could not adopt.
He left his job due to illness, died at home due to old age.
◆Jia Kui's biography, Jia Kui, courtesy name Jingbo, was born in Pingling, Fufeng.
Jia Yi, the ninth ancestor, was the teacher of King Liang during the reign of Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty.
Great-grandfather Jia Guang served as the prefect of Changshan. During the reign of Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty, he moved from Luoyang with an official of two thousand stones.
His father, Jia Hui, studied Zuo Shi Chun Qiu from Liu Xin, Guoyu and Zhou Guan, ancient Chinese Shangshu from Tu Yun, Mao Shi from Xie Manqing, and wrote twenty-one articles of Zuo Shi Regulations.
Jia Kui completely inherited his father's studies. At the age of twenty, he was able to read "Zuo Shi Zhuan" and "Five Classics". He taught his disciples using "Da Xia Hou Shangshu". Although it was ancient learning, he also understood the five schools of "Gu Liang" theory.
Since he was a child, he has always studied in Taiyuan and has no understanding of outside affairs.
Jia Kui was eight feet and two inches tall. Some Confucian scholars made fun of him and said: Jia Kui is always asking questions.
It means that Jia Kui is very tall, but he doesn't know much about the outside world and likes to ask questions about this and that.
He has a cheerful, easy-going personality, is very smart, likes to think, is different and very generous. He especially studied "Zuo Shi Zhuan" and "Guoyu", and wrote fifty-one chapters of "Exegesis" of these two books. During the Yongping period, he dedicated the book to the emperor.
Xianzong attached great importance to it and ordered a copy of it to be hidden in the secret hall.
At that time, a divine bird flew to the palace and the government office with colorful feathers on its head. The emperor felt strange and asked Linyi Marquis Liu Fu what the reason was. Liu Fu couldn't answer, so he recommended Jia Kui, saying that he was very knowledgeable. The emperor then summoned Jia Kui and asked him what the reason was. Jia Kui replied: In the past, King Wu of Zhou Dynasty completed his father's inheritance, the phoenix appeared in Qishan, Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty had high prestige, the Rong and Di surrendered, and the divine sparrow also appeared one after another. This was a sign that the Hu people would surrender.
The emperor ordered the historian of Lantai to take out his notes and ask Jia Kui to write an "Ode to the Divine Bird". He also worshiped Jia Kui as his minister and served as school secretary together with Ban Gu, staying with the emperor for consultation.
Suzong ascended the throne and respected Confucian scholarship, especially "Gu Wenshang Shu" and "Zuo Shi Zhuan".
In the first year of Jianchu, he was ordered to give lectures at Baihu Temple in Beigong and Yuntai in Nangong.
The emperor appreciated Jia Kui's lecture and asked him to give full play to the great meaning of "Zuo Shi Zhuan", which was better than Gongyang and Gu Liang's second biography.
Jia Kui then reported it point by point: I would like to select thirty particularly famous places in the "Zuo Shi Zhuan", all of which promote the justice of the king as the minister and the father as the son.
The remaining seventy-eight tenths are the same as "Gongyang Zhuan". Some of the texts are simple and have minor differences, which do not affect the overall content.
summary:
Jia Kui, courtesy name Jingbo, was born in Pingling, Fufeng. He inherited his father Jia Hui's studies, mastering "Zuo Shi Zhuan," "Guoyu," "Zhou Guan," and ancient texts. At twenty, he could read "Zuo Shi Zhuan" and the "Five Classics." He wrote fifty-one chapters of exegesis on "Zuo Shi Zhuan" and "Guoyu," which Emperor Xianzong valued and stored in the secret hall.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
至于祭仲、纪季、伍子胥、叔术之属，《左氏》义深于君父，《公羊》多任于权变，其相殊绝，固以甚远，而冤抑积久，莫肯分明。臣以永平中上言《左氏》与图谶合者，先帝不遗刍荛，省纳臣言，写其传诂，藏之秘书。
建平中，侍中刘歆欲立《左氏》，不先暴论大义，而轻移太常，恃其义长，诋挫诸儒，诸儒内怀不服，相与排之。
孝哀皇帝重逆众心，故出歆为河内太守。
从是攻击《左氏》，遂为重仇。
至光武皇帝，奋独见之明，兴立《左氏》、《穀梁》，会二家先师不晓图谶，故令中道而废。
凡所以存先王之道者，要在安上理民也。
今《左氏》崇君父，卑臣子，强干弱枝，劝善戒善，至明至切，至直至顺。
且三代异物，损益随时，故先帝博观异家，各有所采。
《易》有施、孟，复立梁丘，《尚书》欧阳，复有大小夏侯，今三传之异亦犹是也。
又《五经》家皆无以证图谶明刘氏为尧后者，而《左氏》独有明文。
《五经》家皆言颛顼代黄帝，而尧不得为火德。
《左氏》以为少昊代黄帝，即图谶所谓帝宣也。
如令尧不得为火，则汉不得为赤。其所发明，补益实多。陛下通天然之明，建大圣之本，改元正历，垂万世则，是以麟凤百数，嘉瑞杂。犹朝夕恪勤，游情《六艺》，研机综微，靡不审核。
若复留意废学，以广圣见，庶几无所遗失矣。
书奏，帝嘉之，赐布五百匹，衣一袭，令逵自选《公羊》严、颜诸生高才者二十人，教以《左氏》，与简纸经传各一通。
逵母常有疾，帝欲加赐，以校书例多，特以钱二十万，使颍阳侯马防与之。
谓防曰： 贾逵母病，此子无人事于外，屡空则从孤竹之子于首阳山矣。
逵数为帝言《古文尚书》与经传《尔雅》诂训相应，诏令撰《欧阳》、《大小夏侯尚书古文》同异。
逵集为三卷，帝善之。
复令撰《齐》、《鲁》、《韩诗》与《毛氏》异同。
translation: 
As for Ji Zhong, Ji Ji, Wu Zixu, Shu Shu and others, "Zuo Shi" profoundly displays the righteousness of the monarch and his ministers, while "Gongyang" mostly believes that it is through power and change. This is definitely a difference, but injustice has been suppressed for too long and it is impossible to distinguish right from wrong. During the Yongping period, I once wrote a letter about some places in the "Zuo Shi Zhuan" that were consistent with the prophecies. The late emperor did not abandon Chu Cui's words and adopted my words. I wrote a detailed explanation and hid it in the secretariat.
During the Jianping period, Liu Xin, the servant, wanted to establish "Zuo Shi Zhuan", but he did not show his righteousness first, and easily handed it over to Taichang. He thought that he had enough reasons to defeat the Confucian scholars, but the Confucian scholars were dissatisfied and united to resist.
The emperor was filial to the emperor and catered to the public sentiment, so Liu Xin became the governor of Hanoi.
From then on, everyone attacked "Zuo Shi" and became the target of public criticism.
When Emperor Guangwu arrived, he had a unique insight and established two schools, Zuo Shi and Gu Liang. It happened that the ancestors of the two families were not familiar with the study of prophecy, so they gave up halfway.
I believe that the key to preserving the teachings of the previous kings is to educate the people.
Now "Zuo Shi" praises the way of the king and father and despises the ministers. This is to strengthen the weak branches and encourage the itchy to refrain from evil. The principle is very clear and precise, and it is straightforward and logical.
Moreover, during the three dynasties, different things were added or subtracted at any time. The late emperor extensively observed various theories and adopted the strengths of each school.
For example, the "Book of Changes" has the Shi and Meng families, and the Liangqiu family is established; the "Book of Changes" has the Ouyang family, and there are the big and small Xiahou. Now the three biographies are different, and this is also the reason.
In addition, none of the Five Classics can use prophecies to prove that the Liu family is a descendant of Emperor Yao, but the "Zuo Family" alone has clear text that can explain it.
"Five Classics" all say that Zhuanxu replaced Huangdi, and Yao could not be the fire virtue.
However, "Zuo Shi" believed that Shaohao replaced Huangdi, which was the emperor's announcement mentioned in the prophecy.
If Yao could not be fire, then Han could not be red. The insights he invented can very well add some truth. Your Majesty has natural wisdom, established the foundation of the Great Sage, changed the year name, revised the calendar, and set an example for all generations. Therefore, Linfeng reported hundreds of times, and good omens appeared many times. Your Majesty still worked hard morning and night, studying the "Six Arts", and reviewed and verified every detail.
If you pay attention to some abandoned knowledge and expand your knowledge, nothing will be lost.
When the book was presented, the emperor commended him very much. He rewarded Jia Kui with five hundred pieces of cloth and a set of clothes. He ordered Jia Kui to select twenty talented people from Yan and Yan Zhusheng of the "Gongyang" school.
Jia Kui's mother was often ill, and the emperor wanted to give her some extra money. Because there were so many books in the school, he specially took 200,000 yuan and sent Yingyang Hou Ma Fang to deliver it.
He said to Ma Fang: Jia Kui's mother is ill and he has little contact with the outside world. No matter how poor he is, he will become a hungry ghost like Boyi and Shuqi in Shouyang Mountain.
Jia Kui told the emperor many times that the "Old Texts" echoed the exegesis of the classic "Erya". The emperor issued an edict ordering him to write "Ouyang and the Great and Small Xiahou Shangshu's Ancient Texts Are Similar and Differences".
Jia Kui concentrated on writing three volumes, which the Emperor thought was very good.
He was also asked to write "Similarities and Differences between Qi, Lu and Han Poems and "Mao Shi"", and "Zhou Guan's Explanation of the Past".
summary:
When a divine bird appeared, Jia Kui explained it as an omen of Hu people's surrender. Emperor Suzong appreciated his lectures and asked him to demonstrate how "Zuo Shi Zhuan" surpassed "Gongyang" and "Guliang." Jia Kui presented thirty examples promoting proper君臣 relations and argued that "Zuo Shi" alone contained texts proving the Liu family descended from Emperor Yao. The emperor rewarded him generously and ordered talented students to study the Four Classics, which became popular worldwide. Jia Kui wrote over a million words of exegesis and various literary works. He died at seventy-two, and the court appointed his sons as officials.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
并作《周官解故》。迁逵为卫士令。
八年，乃诏诸儒各选高才生，受《左氏》、《穀梁春秋》、《古文尚书》、《毛诗》，由是四经遂行于世。
皆拜逵所选弟子及门生为千乘王国郎，朝夕受业黄门署，学者皆欣欣羡慕焉。
和帝即位，永元三年，以逵为左中郎将。
八年，复为侍中，领骑都尉。内备帷幄，兼领秘书近署，甚见信用。
逵所著经传义诂及论难百余万言，又作诗、颂、诔、书、连珠、酒令凡九篇，学者宗之，后世称为通儒。
桓谭以不善谶流亡，郑兴以逊辞仅免，贾逵能附会文致，最差贵显。
世主以此论学，悲矣哉！张霸字伯饶，蜀郡成都人也。
年数岁而知孝让，虽出入饮食，自然合礼，乡人号为 张曾子 。
七岁通《春秋》，复欲进余经，父母曰： 汝小未能也 ，霸曰 我饶为之 ，故字曰 饶 焉。
后就长水校尉樊受《严氏公羊春秋》，遂博览《五经》。
诸生孙林、刘固、段著等慕之，各市宅其傍，以就学焉。
举孝廉光禄主事，稍迁，永元中为会稽太守，表用郡人处士顾奉、公孙松等。
奉后为颍川太守，松为司隶校尉，并有名称。
其余有业行者，皆见擢用。
郡中争厉志节，习经者以千数，道路但闻诵声
初，霸以樊删《严氏春秋》犹多繁辞，乃减定为二十万言，更名《张氏学》。
霸始到越，贼未解，郡界不宁，乃移书开购，明用信赏，贼遂束手归附，不烦士卒之力。
童谣曰： 弃我戟，捐我矛，盗贼尽，吏皆休。
视事三年，谓掾史曰： 太守起自孤生，致位郡守。
盖日中则移，月满则亏。
老氏有言： 知足不辱。
遂上病。
后征，四迁为侍中。
时皇后兄虎贲中郎将邓骘，当朝贵盛，闻霸名行，欲与为交，霸逡巡不答，众人笑其不识时务。
translation: 
Jia Kui was promoted to the position of guard.
In the eighth year, he issued an order to all the Confucian scholars to select talented students to study "Zuo Shi", "Gu Liang Chun Qiu", "Guwen Shangshu" and "Mao Shi". From then on, the Four Classics became popular in the world.
The disciples and disciples selected by Jia Kui were all granted the title of Qiancheng Kingdom Lang. They studied in the Huangmen Department morning and night, and scholars were envious of them.
Emperor He ascended the throne, and in the third year of Yongyuan, he appointed Jia Kui as Zuo Zhonglang General.
In the eighth year, he also served as a servant, led the cavalry captain and prepared curtains and curtains, and was also in charge of the secretary's office. He was very trusted.
Jia Kui wrote more than a million words of exegesis, exegesis and discussion of classics and difficulties. He also wrote nine articles in total including poems, admonitions, books, lianzhu and wine orders. Scholars admired him very much, and later generations called him Tongru.
However, he did not pay much attention to details, which was somewhat ridiculed by contemporary people, so he did not become a high official. He died in the thirteenth year of Yongyuan at the age of seventy-two.
The imperial court took pity on him and appointed his two sons as prince sheren. ◆The biography of Zhang Ba, named Bo Rao, was from Chengdu, Shu County.
He knew filial piety and humility at a very young age. Even when he was eating or drinking, he was naturally in line with etiquette. The villagers called him Zhang Zengzi.
He was proficient in "Spring and Autumn" when he was seven years old, and wanted to study other classics. His parents said that you are too young to learn so much. Zhang Ba said that I did it for him, so he named him Rao.
Later, he studied "Yanshi Gongyang Chunqiu" with Fan Min, the captain of Changshui School, and then read the "Five Classics" extensively.
At that time, young people Sun Lin, Liu Gu, Duan Zhu and others envied him, so they all bought a house next to Zhang Ba's house to live in so that they could learn from Zhang Ba.
Zhang Ba was elected as the chief minister of Xiaolian, Guangluxun, and was soon promoted. During the Yongyuan period, he became the prefect of Kuaiji. He also appointed Gu Feng, Gongsun Song, and others from the county.
Gu Feng later became the prefect of Yingchuan, and Gongsun Song became the captain of Sili, both of whom were famous.
Others with professional expertise were promoted and hired.
Since then, people in the county have been scrambling to sharpen their moral integrity. Thousands of people are studying the scriptures, and the sound of reciting can be heard on the roads.
At first, Zhang Ba thought that Fan Min had deleted and edited "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals" and there were many complicated words, so he reduced it to 200,000 words and changed its name to "Zhang's Studies".
Zhang Ba began to go to Vietnam, but the thieves had not been eliminated and the county was uneasy, so Zhang Ba issued an official document offering a reward. If he used it faithfully, the thieves would surrender without bothering the soldiers.
The nursery rhyme goes: Abandon me Drogo, donate my spear, all thieves will be gone, all officials will be put to rest.
In the third year of his service, Zhang told the official: "The prefect was born as an orphan and became a county governor."
Generally, when the sun is in the middle, it will be tilted, and when the moon is full, there will be losses.
Lao Tzu has a saying: Contentment is not humiliating.
So I asked for sick leave.
Later he was requisitioned and promoted four times to the rank of Attendant.
At this time, the queen's brother, Tiger Guard General Deng Zhi, was a high official in the dynasty. Hearing about Zhang Ba's reputation, he wanted to make friends with him. Zhang Ba hesitated and did not answer, and everyone laughed at him for not knowing current affairs.
summary:
Zhang Ba, courtesy name Bo Rao, was from Chengdu, Shu County. Known for filial piety and humility from childhood, he was called Zhang Zengzi by villagers. He studied "Yanshi Gongyang Chunqiu" and extensively read the "Five Classics." During Yongyuan, he became prefect of Kuaiji, where he promoted talented individuals and encouraged moral cultivation, leading thousands to study scriptures. Zhang Ba simplified Fan Min's edition of "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals" to 200,000 words, calling it "Zhang's Studies." He pacified thieves through rewards without military force. After three years, he requested sick leave, citing the principle that fullness leads to decline. Later promoted to Attendant, he declined friendship with the powerful Deng Zhi. He died at seventy, instructing his sons to bury him simply where he died rather than transport his body home. His disciples posthumously titled him Xianwen.

