Summary uses chunk [0, 2, 5, 5]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
伍子胥者，楚人也，名员。
员父曰伍奢。员兄曰伍尚。
其先曰伍举，以直谏事楚庄王，有显，故其後世有名於楚。
楚平王有太子名曰建，使伍奢为太傅，费无忌为少傅。
无忌不忠於太子建。
平王使无忌为太子取妇於秦，秦女好，无忌驰归报平王曰： 秦女绝美，王可自取，而更为太子取妇。
平王遂自取秦女而绝爱幸之，生子轸。更为太子取妇。
无忌既以秦女自媚於平王，因去太子而事平王。
恐一旦平王卒而太子立，杀己，乃因谗太子建。
建母，蔡女也，无宠於平王。
平王稍益疏建，使建守城父，备边兵。
顷之，无忌又日夜言太子短於王曰： 太子以秦女之故，不能无怨望，原王少自备也。
自太子居城父，将兵，外交诸侯，且欲入为乱矣。
平王乃召其太傅伍奢考问之。
伍奢知无忌谗太子於平王，因曰： 王独柰何以谗贼小臣疏骨肉之亲乎？
无忌曰： 王今不制，其事成矣。王且见禽。
於是平王怒，囚伍奢，而使城父司马奋扬往杀太子。
行未至，奋扬使人先告太子： 太子急去，不然将诛。
太子建亡奔宋。
无忌言於平王曰： 伍奢有二子，皆贤，不诛且为楚忧。
可以其父质而召之，不然且为楚患。
王使使谓伍奢曰： 能致汝二子则生，不能则死。
伍奢曰： 尚为人仁，呼必来。员为人刚戾忍卼，能成大事，彼见来之并禽，其势必不来。
王不听，使人召二子曰： 来，吾生汝父；不来，今杀奢也。
伍尚欲往，员曰： 楚之召我兄弟，非欲以生我父也，恐有脱者後生患，故以父为质，诈召二子。
二子到，则父子俱死。
何益父之死？
往而令雠不得报耳。
translation: 
Wu Zixu, a native of Chu State, was a famous official.
Wu Yuan's father is Wu She, and Wu Yuan's brother is Wu Shang.
His ancestor was named Wu Ju, who gained prominence because he served King Zhuang of Chu with his upright and outspoken advice, so his descendants were very famous in Chu State.
King Chu Ping's crown prince was named Jian. King Chu Ping appointed Wu She as his Tai Fu and Fei Wuji as his Young Fu.
Fei Wuji was not loyal to Prince Jian.
King Ping sent Wuji to Qin to marry the prince. Because the Qin girl was beautiful, Wuji hurried back and reported to King Ping: "That woman is a peerless beauty. The king can marry her himself and give the prince another wife."
King Ping married the daughter of Qin himself, doted on her extremely, gave birth to a son named Zhen, and married Prince Jian.
After Fei Wuji used Qin's beauties to flatter King Ping of Chu, he took the opportunity to leave the prince and serve King Ping.
He was also worried that one day King Ping would die and Prince Jian would kill him if he succeeded to the throne, so he tried his best to slander Prince Jian.
Prince Jian's mother was from the state of Cai and was not favored by King Ping of Chu.
King Ping also became more and more alienated from Prince Jian, and sent Prince Jian to garrison the city father and defend the border.
Soon, Fei Wuji spoke ill of Prince Jian in front of King Ping day and night. He said: The prince will not be without resentment because of Qin Nu. I hope the king will be more defensive.
Since the prince has been stationed in the city, commanding the army and communicating with the princes, he is preparing to enter the capital to cause trouble.
King Ping of Chu summoned his tutor Wu She back for interrogation.
Wu She knew that Fei Wuji had said bad things about the prince in front of King Ping, so he said: How can the king alienate his close relatives just by bad words about a villain who is trying to stir up trouble?
Fei Wuji said: If the king doesn’t stop it now, their conspiracy will succeed and the king will be arrested!
So King Ping became angry and imprisoned Wu She. At the same time, he ordered Sima Fenyang, the father of the city, to kill Prince Jian.
Before they arrived, Fenyang sent someone to tell the prince in advance: The prince should leave quickly, otherwise he will be killed.
So Prince Jian fled to the Song Dynasty.
Fei Wuji said to King Ping: Wu She has two sons, both of whom are virtuous. If they are not killed, they will become a disaster to the Chu State.
You can use his father as a hostage to summon them, otherwise it will become a future trouble for the Chu State.
King Ping sent an envoy to Wu She and said: If you can call your two sons, they will live. If you don't call, you will be killed.
Wu She said: Wu Shang is a generous and kind man. If you call him, he will definitely come; Wu is a rebellious person who endures humiliation and heavy burdens and can achieve great things. He knows that if he comes and is captured, he will definitely not come.
King Ping refused to listen and sent for Wu She's two sons, saying: "Come, I will save your father's life; if you don't come, I will kill Wu She now."
Wu Shang planned to go, but the military officer said: The King of Chu summoned us brothers, but he did not intend to let our father live. He was worried that we would escape and cause trouble in the future, so he used our father as a hostage to deceive us.
As soon as we arrive, we will be executed together with our father.
What good can come from my father's death?
If we go, we will not be able to take revenge.
summary:
Wu Zixu, a native of Chu, was a famous official whose father Wu She and brother Wu Shang were killed by King Ping of Chu due to the slander of Fei Wuji. Fei Wuji, originally the young tutor of Prince Jian, manipulated King Ping into marrying the prince's intended bride from Qin, then slandered Prince Jian, leading to his exile. Wu She was imprisoned, and his sons were summoned under threat of death. Wu Shang chose to go and die with his father, while Wu Zixu escaped, vowing revenge. He fled to Song, then Zheng, and eventually to Wu after Prince Jian was killed in Zheng. Wu Zixu arrived in Wu, where he befriended Prince Guang and recommended Zhuanzhu to assassinate King Liao, allowing Prince Guang to become King Helu of Wu.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
公子光谓吴王曰： 彼伍胥父兄为戮於楚，而劝王伐楚者，欲以自报其雠耳。
伐楚未可破也。
伍胥知公子光有内志，欲杀王而自立，未可说以外事，乃进专诸於公子光，退而与太子建之子胜耕於野。
五年而楚平王卒。
初，平王所夺太子建秦女生子轸，及平王卒，轸竟立为後，是为昭王。
吴王僚因楚丧，使二公子将兵往袭楚。
楚发兵绝吴兵之後，不得归。
吴国内空，而公子光乃令专诸袭刺吴王僚而自立，是为吴王阖庐。
阖庐既立，得志，乃召伍员以为行人，而与谋国事。
楚诛其大臣郤宛、伯州犁，伯州犁之孙伯嚭亡奔吴，吴亦以嚭为大夫。
前王僚所遣二公子将兵伐楚者，道绝不得归。後闻阖庐弑王僚自立，遂以其兵降楚，楚封之於舒。
阖庐立三年，乃兴师与伍胥、伯嚭伐楚，拔舒，遂禽故吴反二将军。
因欲至郢，将军孙武曰： 民劳，未可，且待之。
乃归。
四年，吴伐楚，取六与灊。
五年，伐越，败之。
六年，楚昭王使公子囊瓦将兵伐吴。
吴使伍员迎击，大破楚军於豫章，取楚之居巢。
九年，吴王阖庐谓子胥、孙武曰： 始子言郢未可入，今果何如？
二子对曰： 楚将囊瓦贪，而唐、蔡皆怨之。
王必欲大伐之，必先得唐、蔡乃可。
阖庐听之，悉兴师与唐、蔡伐楚，与楚夹汉水而陈。
吴王之弟夫概将兵请从，王不听，遂以其属五千人击楚将子常。子常败走，奔郑。
於是吴乘胜而前，五战，遂至郢。
己卯，楚昭王出奔。
庚辰，吴王入郢。
昭王出亡，入云梦；盗击王，王走郧。
郧公弟怀曰： 平王杀我父，我杀其子，不亦可乎！
郧公恐其弟杀王，与王奔随。
吴兵围随，谓随人曰： 周之子孙在汉川者，楚尽灭之。
随人欲杀王，王子綦匿王，己自为王以当之。
随人卜与王於吴，不吉，乃谢吴不与王。
始伍员与申包胥为交，员之亡也，谓包胥曰： 我必覆楚。
包胥曰： 我必存之。
及吴兵入郢，伍子胥求昭王。既不得，乃掘楚平王墓，出其尸，鞭之三百，然後已。
申包胥亡於山中，使人谓子胥曰： 子之报雠，其以甚乎！
translation: 
Prince Guang said to the King of Wu: Wu Zixu's father and brother were killed by the Chu State, and I persuaded the king to attack the Chu State in order to avenge his personal revenge.
Attacking Chu may not necessarily defeat it.
Wu Zixu knew that Gongzi Guang had domestic ambitions and wanted to kill King Liao of Wu and establish himself as king. In this case, he could not persuade him with external military actions, so he recommended Zhuanzhu to Gongzi Guang, while he left the court and went to the countryside to farm with Prince Jian's son Sheng.
Five years later, King Ping of Chu died.
At the beginning, the beauty of Qin State that King Ping took from Prince Jian gave birth to a son named Zhen. When King Ping died, Zhen succeeded King Ping to the throne. This was King Zhao.
King Liao of Wu took advantage of Chu's funeral and sent Zhu Yong and Gai Yu to lead troops to attack Chu.
The Chu State sent troops to cut off the Wu army's retreat, preventing the Wu army from returning home.
The Kingdom of Wu was empty, so Prince Guang ordered Zhuan Zhu to assassinate King Liao of Wu and proclaimed himself king. This was the King's House of Wu.
After Helu became independent, and his wish came true, he recalled his military officers, worshiped him as a pedestrian, and discussed national affairs with him.
Chu State killed its ministers Pei Wan and Bozhou Li. Bo Zhouli's grandson Bo Pei fled to Wu State, and Wu State also appointed Bo Pei as a high official.
Previously, the two princes sent by King Liao of Wu to attack the Chu State were cut off and could not return home. Later, when they heard that Helu had killed King Liao of Wu and proclaimed himself king, he led his army and surrendered to the State of Chu. The State of Chu granted Shu land to them.
In the third year after Helu proclaimed himself king, he mobilized his army, Wu Zixu, and Bo Pei to attack Chu State, occupied Shudi, and captured the two generals who had betrayed Wu State.
So Helu wanted to take advantage of the victory and march into the capital of Ying. General Sun Wu said: "The people are very tired and cannot continue. Let's wait for the opportunity."
He withdrew his troops and returned home.
In the fourth year of Helu, the state of Wu attacked the state of Chu and captured the six lands and the land of Hao.
In the fifth year of Helu, the State of Wu attacked the State of Yue and defeated it.
In the sixth year of Helu, King Zhao of Chu sent his son Nang Wa to lead an army to attack Wu.
The state of Wu sent Wu Zixu to fight, defeated the army of the state of Chu in Yuzhang, and captured the Chu state's Juchao.
In the ninth year of Helu, King Helu of Wu said to Zixu and Sun Wu: At first you said that Ying was not to be invaded. What is the situation now?
Zixu and Sun Wu replied: General Nang Wa of Chu is greedy for money, and both Tang and Cai resent him.
If the king must attack Chu on a large scale, he must first get help from Tang and Cai.
Helu listened to their advice and dispatched all the troops to attack Chu together with Tang and Cai, and faced off with the Chu army on both sides of the Han River.
King Wu's younger brother Fu Gai led the army and asked to accompany him on the expedition. King Wu refused, so Fu Gai used five thousand of his men to attack Chu general Zichang. Zichang was defeated and fled, heading straight to Zheng.
So the Wu army took advantage of the victory and advanced, and after five battles, they reached the capital of Ying.
On Ji Mao day, King Zhao of Chu fled.
The next day, King Wu entered the capital of Ying.
After King Zhao of Chu fled, he came to Yunmeng. Here King Zhao was attacked by bandits and fled to Yundi.
Dou Huai, the younger brother of Duke Yun Douxin, said: "King Ping killed our father. Isn't it also okay for us to kill his son?"
Duke Yun was worried that his brother would kill King Zhao, so he fled to other places with King Zhao.
Wu soldiers surrounded everywhere and said to the people everywhere: The descendants of the Zhou Dynasty in the Han River Basin were all wiped out by the Chu State.
When the others wanted to kill King Zhao, Wang Ziqi hid him and pretended to be King Zhao to frustrate them.
The hexagrams showed that it would be unlucky to hand over King Zhao to the Wu army, so he declined the offer and did not hand over King Zhao.
At first, Wu Zixu and Shen Baoxu were close friends. When Wu Zixu escaped, he said to Baoxu: I must overthrow the state of Chu.
Bao Xu said: I must save Chu State.
When Wu soldiers invaded the capital of Ying, Wu Zixu searched for King Zhao but could not find him, so he dug up King Ping's grave, dragged out his body, and whipped him three hundred times before stopping.
Shen Baoxu fled to the mountains and sent people to say to Wu Zixu: "You are going too far to take revenge like this!"
summary:
Under Helu, Wu Zixu became a key advisor, leading campaigns against Chu. In 506 BCE, Wu, with allies Tang and Cai, defeated Chu at the Battle of Boju, capturing the capital Ying. King Zhao of Chu fled. Wu Zixu, unable to find King Zhao, exhumed King Ping's corpse and whipped it 300 times in revenge. Shen Baoxu, a friend of Wu Zixu, sought aid from Qin, crying for seven days until Qin agreed to help. Qin forces defeated Wu, and internal strife forced Helu to return to Wu. Wu Zixu and Sun Wu's strategies made Wu dominant over Chu, Qi, Jin, and Yue.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
乃使使赐伍子胥属镂之剑，曰： 子以此死。
伍子胥仰天叹曰： 嗟乎！
谗臣嚭为乱矣，王乃反诛我。
我令若父霸。
自若未立时，诸公子争立，我以死争之於先王，几不得立。
若既得立，欲分吴国予我，我顾不敢望也。然今若听谀臣言以杀长者。
乃告其舍人曰： 必树吾墓上以梓，令可以为器；而抉吾眼县吴东门之上，以观越寇之入灭吴也。
乃自刭死。吴王闻之大怒，乃取子胥尸盛以鸱夷革，浮之江中。
吴人怜之，为立祠於江上，因命曰胥山。
吴王既诛伍子胥，遂伐齐。
齐鲍氏杀其君悼公而立阳生。
吴王欲讨其贼，不胜而去。
其後二年，吴王召鲁卫之君会之橐皋。
其明年，因北大会诸侯於黄池，以令周室。
越王勾践袭杀吴太子，破吴兵。
吴王闻之，乃归，使使厚币与越平。
後九年，越王勾践遂灭吴，杀王夫差；而诛太宰嚭，以不忠於其君，而外受重赂，与己比周也。
伍子胥初所与俱亡故楚太子建之子胜者，在於吴。
吴王夫差之时，楚惠王欲召胜归楚。
叶公谏曰： 胜好勇而阴求死士，殆有私乎！
惠王不听。遂召胜，使居楚之边邑鄢，号为白公。
白公归楚三年而吴诛子胥。
白公胜既归楚，怨郑之杀其父，乃阴养死士求报郑。
归楚五年，请伐郑，楚令尹子西许之。
兵未发而晋伐郑，郑请救於楚。楚使子西往救，与盟而还。
白公胜怒曰： 非郑之仇，乃子西也。
胜自砺剑，人问曰： 何以为？
胜曰： 欲以杀子西。
子西闻之，笑曰： 胜如卵耳，何能为也。
其後四岁，白公胜与石乞袭杀楚令尹子西、司马子綦於朝。
translation: 
He sent an envoy to give Wu Zixu the engraved sword and said: "You use this sword to commit suicide."
Wu Zixu looked up at the sky and sighed: Alas!
I slandered the villain Bo Pei and wanted to cause trouble, but the king came to kill me.
I made your father king.
Before you were confirmed as the heir to the throne, the princes were vying to be crown prince. I fought to the death in front of the late king and could hardly get the crown prince's position.
After you became the crown prince, you also promised to give me a portion of the Kingdom of Wu, but I have no hope that you will repay me. But now you actually listened to the bad words of a flattering villain and killed your elders.
So he told his close followers: You must plant a catalpa tree on my tomb so that it can grow up and make a coffin. Goug out my eyeballs and hang them on the east gate of Wu's capital to watch how the Yue invaders enter the capital and destroy Wu.
So he committed suicide and died. When the king of Wu heard this, he was furious, so he put Wu Zixu's body in a leather bag and floated it in the river.
The people of Wu State sympathized with him and built an ancestral hall for him by the river. Therefore, they named this place Xushan.
After King Wu killed Wu Zixu, he attacked Qi.
The Bao family of Qi killed their king, Duke Ai, and assisted Yang Sheng as king.
King Wu planned to attack the Bao family, but he withdrew his troops before winning.
Two years later, King Wu summoned the kings of Lu and Wei to meet at Lugao for an alliance.
The next year, he headed north and gathered the princes in Huangchi to give orders to the Emperor of Zhou.
At this time, King Gou Jian of Yue attacked the state of Wu, killed the prince of the state of Wu, and defeated the army of the state of Wu.
When King Wu heard the news, he returned to his country and sent envoys to negotiate peace with Yue with rich and valuable gifts.
Nine years later, King Gou Jian of Yue finally destroyed the state of Wu, killed King Wu Fu Chai, and killed Dazai Pei because he was disloyal to his king, accepted valuable bribes from foreign countries, and secretly became close to the state of Yue.
The son of Prince Jian of Chu, who had fled with Wu Zixu, lived in the state of Wu.
When King Wu Fu Chai was in power, King Hui of Chu wanted to summon Sheng back to Chu.
Ye Gongju advised: Sheng loves bravery and secretly seeks out warriors who dare to die. He may have selfish motives!
King Hui didn't listen to his advice, so he finally called Sheng back and let him live in Yan, the border town of Chu. Known as Bai Gong.
Three years after Duke Bai returned to Chu, King Wu killed Wu Zixu.
Not long after Duke Bai returned to Chu State, he resented Zheng Guo for killing his father, so he secretly recruited warriors who dared to die to avenge Zheng Guo.
After returning to Chu State for five years, he asked the King of Chu to attack Zheng State. Yin Zixi, the order of Chu State, agreed to his request.
However, Jin had already sent troops to attack Zheng before it sent troops. Zheng sent people to Chu to ask for rescue. King Chu sent Zixi to rescue Zheng and made an alliance with Zheng before returning.
Bai Gongsheng was angry and said: My enemy is not Zheng Guo, my enemy is Zixi!
Bai Gongsheng sharpened the sword himself. Someone asked him: What do you use it for?
Bai Gongsheng replied: "I want to use it to kill Zixi."
When Zixi heard about this, he smiled and said: "Bai Gongsheng is like a bird's egg, what can he do!"
Four years later, Bai Gongsheng and Shi Qi suddenly assassinated Ling Yin Zixi and Sima Ziqi in the court.
summary:
After Helu's death, his son King Fucha of Wu succeeded. Wu Zixu warned against sparing King Goujian of Yue after a victory, but Fucha, influenced by the corrupt official Bo Pi, accepted Yue's surrender. Wu Zixu repeatedly advised against attacking Qi, urging the elimination of Yue first, but was ignored. Fucha sent Wu Zixu as an envoy to Qi, where he entrusted his son to the Bao family, foreseeing Wu's doom. Bo Pi slandered Wu Zixu, leading Fucha to order his suicide. Wu Zixu, before dying, asked for his eyes to be hung on the eastern gate to watch Yue's invasion. Fucha, enraged, had his body placed in a leather bag and thrown into the river. The people of Wu built a shrine for him. Years later, Yue destroyed Wu, fulfilling Wu Zixu's prophecy. Prince Jian's son, Bai Gong Sheng, returned to Chu but later rebelled, killing officials Zixi and Ziqi, and kidnapping King Hui. Ye Gong suppressed the rebellion, and Bai Gong Sheng committed suicide. Sima Qian commented on Wu Zixu's endurance and revenge, contrasting his fate with Bai Gong Sheng's failed rebellion.

