Chunk 0: 
original: 
伍子胥者，楚人也，名员。
员父曰伍奢。员兄曰伍尚。
其先曰伍举，以直谏事楚庄王，有显，故其後世有名於楚。
楚平王有太子名曰建，使伍奢为太傅，费无忌为少傅。
无忌不忠於太子建。
平王使无忌为太子取妇於秦，秦女好，无忌驰归报平王曰： 秦女绝美，王可自取，而更为太子取妇。
平王遂自取秦女而绝爱幸之，生子轸。更为太子取妇。
无忌既以秦女自媚於平王，因去太子而事平王。
恐一旦平王卒而太子立，杀己，乃因谗太子建。
建母，蔡女也，无宠於平王。
平王稍益疏建，使建守城父，备边兵。
顷之，无忌又日夜言太子短於王曰： 太子以秦女之故，不能无怨望，原王少自备也。
自太子居城父，将兵，外交诸侯，且欲入为乱矣。
平王乃召其太傅伍奢考问之。
伍奢知无忌谗太子於平王，因曰： 王独柰何以谗贼小臣疏骨肉之亲乎？
无忌曰： 王今不制，其事成矣。王且见禽。
於是平王怒，囚伍奢，而使城父司马奋扬往杀太子。
行未至，奋扬使人先告太子： 太子急去，不然将诛。
太子建亡奔宋。
无忌言於平王曰： 伍奢有二子，皆贤，不诛且为楚忧。
可以其父质而召之，不然且为楚患。
王使使谓伍奢曰： 能致汝二子则生，不能则死。
伍奢曰： 尚为人仁，呼必来。员为人刚戾忍卼，能成大事，彼见来之并禽，其势必不来。
王不听，使人召二子曰： 来，吾生汝父；不来，今杀奢也。
伍尚欲往，员曰： 楚之召我兄弟，非欲以生我父也，恐有脱者後生患，故以父为质，诈召二子。
二子到，则父子俱死。
何益父之死？
往而令雠不得报耳。
translation: 
Wu Zixu, a native of Chu State, was a famous official.
Wu Yuan's father is Wu She, and Wu Yuan's brother is Wu Shang.
His ancestor was named Wu Ju, who gained prominence because he served King Zhuang of Chu with his upright and outspoken advice, so his descendants were very famous in Chu State.
King Chu Ping's crown prince was named Jian. King Chu Ping appointed Wu She as his Tai Fu and Fei Wuji as his Young Fu.
Fei Wuji was not loyal to Prince Jian.
King Ping sent Wuji to Qin to marry the prince. Because the Qin girl was beautiful, Wuji hurried back and reported to King Ping: "That woman is a peerless beauty. The king can marry her himself and give the prince another wife."
King Ping married the daughter of Qin himself, doted on her extremely, gave birth to a son named Zhen, and married Prince Jian.
After Fei Wuji used Qin's beauties to flatter King Ping of Chu, he took the opportunity to leave the prince and serve King Ping.
He was also worried that one day King Ping would die and Prince Jian would kill him if he succeeded to the throne, so he tried his best to slander Prince Jian.
Prince Jian's mother was from the state of Cai and was not favored by King Ping of Chu.
King Ping also became more and more alienated from Prince Jian, and sent Prince Jian to garrison the city father and defend the border.
Soon, Fei Wuji spoke ill of Prince Jian in front of King Ping day and night. He said: The prince will not be without resentment because of Qin Nu. I hope the king will be more defensive.
Since the prince has been stationed in the city, commanding the army and communicating with the princes, he is preparing to enter the capital to cause trouble.
King Ping of Chu summoned his tutor Wu She back for interrogation.
Wu She knew that Fei Wuji had said bad things about the prince in front of King Ping, so he said: How can the king alienate his close relatives just by bad words about a villain who is trying to stir up trouble?
Fei Wuji said: If the king doesn’t stop it now, their conspiracy will succeed and the king will be arrested!
So King Ping became angry and imprisoned Wu She. At the same time, he ordered Sima Fenyang, the father of the city, to kill Prince Jian.
Before they arrived, Fenyang sent someone to tell the prince in advance: The prince should leave quickly, otherwise he will be killed.
So Prince Jian fled to the Song Dynasty.
Fei Wuji said to King Ping: Wu She has two sons, both of whom are virtuous. If they are not killed, they will become a disaster to the Chu State.
You can use his father as a hostage to summon them, otherwise it will become a future trouble for the Chu State.
King Ping sent an envoy to Wu She and said: If you can call your two sons, they will live. If you don't call, you will be killed.
Wu She said: Wu Shang is a generous and kind man. If you call him, he will definitely come; Wu is a rebellious person who endures humiliation and heavy burdens and can achieve great things. He knows that if he comes and is captured, he will definitely not come.
King Ping refused to listen and sent for Wu She's two sons, saying: "Come, I will save your father's life; if you don't come, I will kill Wu She now."
Wu Shang planned to go, but the military officer said: The King of Chu summoned us brothers, but he did not intend to let our father live. He was worried that we would escape and cause trouble in the future, so he used our father as a hostage to deceive us.
As soon as we arrive, we will be executed together with our father.
What good can come from my father's death?
If we go, we will not be able to take revenge.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
不如奔他国，借力以雪父之耻，俱灭，无为也。
伍尚曰： 我知往终不能全父命。
然恨父召我以求生而不往，後不能雪耻，终为天下笑耳。
谓员： 可去矣！汝能报杀父之雠，我将归死。
尚既就执，使者捕伍胥。伍胥贯弓执矢乡使者，使者不敢进，伍胥遂亡。
闻太子建之在宋，往从之。
奢闻子胥之亡也，曰： 楚国君臣且苦兵矣。
伍尚至楚，楚并杀奢与尚也。
伍胥既至宋，宋有华氏之乱，乃与太子建俱奔於郑。
郑人甚善之。
太子建又適晋，晋顷公曰： 太子既善郑，郑信太子。太子能为我内应，而我攻其外，灭郑必矣。灭郑而封太子。
太子乃还郑。
事未会，会自私欲杀其从者，从者知其谋，乃告之於郑。
郑定公与子产诛杀太子建。
建有子名胜。
伍胥惧，乃与胜俱奔吴。
到昭关，昭关欲执之。伍胥遂与胜独身步走，几不得脱。
追者在後。
至江，江上有一渔父乘船，知伍胥之急，乃渡伍胥。
伍胥既渡，解其剑曰： 此剑直百金，以与父。
父曰： 楚国之法，得伍胥者赐粟五万石，爵执珪，岂徒百金剑邪！
不受。
伍胥未至吴而疾，止中道，乞食。
至於吴，吴王僚方用事，公子光为将。
伍胥乃因公子光以求见吴王。
久之，楚平王以其边邑锺离与吴边邑卑梁氏俱蚕，两女子争桑相攻，乃大怒，至於两国举兵相伐。
吴使公子光伐楚，拔其锺离、居巢而归。
伍子胥说吴王僚曰： 楚可破也。原复遣公子光。
translation: 
It is better to escape to other countries and use the power of other countries to wash away the shame of my father. There is no point in dying together.
Wu Shang said: I know that I will not be able to save my father's life in the end.
But I only regret that my father called us to survive. If we don’t go, we will not be able to wash away the shame in the future, and we will eventually be ridiculed by everyone in the world.
He said to the soldier: You can escape, you can avenge your father's murder, and I will die there.
After Wu Shang was arrested, the envoy wanted to arrest Wu Zixu again. Wu Zixu drew his bow full and aimed his arrow at the envoy. The envoy did not dare to come forward, so Wu Zixu ran away.
He heard that the prince was in Song Dynasty, so he went to follow him.
When Wu She heard that Zixu had escaped, he said: "The kings and ministers of Chu will suffer from the war."
When Wu Shang came to the capital of Chu, King Chu Ping killed Wu Shang and Wu She together.
After Wu Zixu arrived in the Song Dynasty, he happened to encounter a rebellion by the Hua clan in the Song Dynasty, so he fled to the Zheng Kingdom with Prince Jian.
The kings and ministers of Zheng were very friendly to them.
Prince Jian went to the State of Jin again. Jin Qinggong said: Since the relationship between the Crown Prince and the State of Zheng is friendly, it means that the State of Zheng trusts the Crown Prince. If the Crown Prince can provide us with internal support, if we attack from the outside, we will definitely destroy the State of Zheng. After destroying the State of Zheng, we will entrust it to the Crown Prince.
So the prince returned to Zheng.
The time was not yet ripe for the incident, and the prince was planning to kill a person who followed him because of personal matters. This person knew his plan and told Zheng Guo about it.
Zheng Dinggong and Zichan killed Prince Jian.
Prince Jian had a son named Sheng.
After the incident, Wu Zixu was frightened, so he fled to Wu with Sheng.
When they arrived at Zhaoguan, the officers and soldiers of Zhaoguan wanted to arrest them, so Wu Zixu and Sheng each escaped on foot alone, and almost couldn't escape.
The pursuers are behind.
Wu Zixu fled to the river. There was a fisherman riding a boat on the river. Knowing that Wu Zixu was in danger, he crossed Wu Zixu across the river.
After Wu Zixu crossed the river, he took off the sword he carried with him and said, "This sword is worth a hundred gold. I will give it to you, old man."
The fisherman said: According to the law of Chu, whoever catches Wu Zixu will be rewarded with 50,000 dan of grain and the title of Zhigui. Is it a sword worth only a hundred gold?
Refuse to accept it.
Before Wu Zixu could escape to the capital of Wu State, he fell ill and had to stop on the way to beg for food.
When he arrived at the capital of Wu, King Liao of Wu had just come into power and Prince Guang was the general.
Wu Zixu asked to see the King of Wu through Gongzi Guang's relationship.
After a long time, King Ping of Chu got so angry because Zhongli, a border town of Chu State, and Beiliang, a border town of Wu State, both raised silkworms, and the women from the two places fought each other over picking mulberry leaves, so that the two countries launched armies to attack each other.
The state of Wu sent Prince Guang to attack the state of Chu, and after conquering Zhongli and Juchao of Chu state, they returned.
Wu Zixu persuaded King Liao of Wu: Chu State can be conquered, and he hopes to send his son to attack Chu State again.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
公子光谓吴王曰： 彼伍胥父兄为戮於楚，而劝王伐楚者，欲以自报其雠耳。
伐楚未可破也。
伍胥知公子光有内志，欲杀王而自立，未可说以外事，乃进专诸於公子光，退而与太子建之子胜耕於野。
五年而楚平王卒。
初，平王所夺太子建秦女生子轸，及平王卒，轸竟立为後，是为昭王。
吴王僚因楚丧，使二公子将兵往袭楚。
楚发兵绝吴兵之後，不得归。
吴国内空，而公子光乃令专诸袭刺吴王僚而自立，是为吴王阖庐。
阖庐既立，得志，乃召伍员以为行人，而与谋国事。
楚诛其大臣郤宛、伯州犁，伯州犁之孙伯嚭亡奔吴，吴亦以嚭为大夫。
前王僚所遣二公子将兵伐楚者，道绝不得归。後闻阖庐弑王僚自立，遂以其兵降楚，楚封之於舒。
阖庐立三年，乃兴师与伍胥、伯嚭伐楚，拔舒，遂禽故吴反二将军。
因欲至郢，将军孙武曰： 民劳，未可，且待之。
乃归。
四年，吴伐楚，取六与灊。
五年，伐越，败之。
六年，楚昭王使公子囊瓦将兵伐吴。
吴使伍员迎击，大破楚军於豫章，取楚之居巢。
九年，吴王阖庐谓子胥、孙武曰： 始子言郢未可入，今果何如？
二子对曰： 楚将囊瓦贪，而唐、蔡皆怨之。
王必欲大伐之，必先得唐、蔡乃可。
阖庐听之，悉兴师与唐、蔡伐楚，与楚夹汉水而陈。
吴王之弟夫概将兵请从，王不听，遂以其属五千人击楚将子常。子常败走，奔郑。
於是吴乘胜而前，五战，遂至郢。
己卯，楚昭王出奔。
庚辰，吴王入郢。
昭王出亡，入云梦；盗击王，王走郧。
郧公弟怀曰： 平王杀我父，我杀其子，不亦可乎！
郧公恐其弟杀王，与王奔随。
吴兵围随，谓随人曰： 周之子孙在汉川者，楚尽灭之。
随人欲杀王，王子綦匿王，己自为王以当之。
随人卜与王於吴，不吉，乃谢吴不与王。
始伍员与申包胥为交，员之亡也，谓包胥曰： 我必覆楚。
包胥曰： 我必存之。
及吴兵入郢，伍子胥求昭王。既不得，乃掘楚平王墓，出其尸，鞭之三百，然後已。
申包胥亡於山中，使人谓子胥曰： 子之报雠，其以甚乎！
translation: 
Prince Guang said to the King of Wu: Wu Zixu's father and brother were killed by the Chu State, and I persuaded the king to attack the Chu State in order to avenge his personal revenge.
Attacking Chu may not necessarily defeat it.
Wu Zixu knew that Gongzi Guang had domestic ambitions and wanted to kill King Liao of Wu and establish himself as king. In this case, he could not persuade him with external military actions, so he recommended Zhuanzhu to Gongzi Guang, while he left the court and went to the countryside to farm with Prince Jian's son Sheng.
Five years later, King Ping of Chu died.
At the beginning, the beauty of Qin State that King Ping took from Prince Jian gave birth to a son named Zhen. When King Ping died, Zhen succeeded King Ping to the throne. This was King Zhao.
King Liao of Wu took advantage of Chu's funeral and sent Zhu Yong and Gai Yu to lead troops to attack Chu.
The Chu State sent troops to cut off the Wu army's retreat, preventing the Wu army from returning home.
The Kingdom of Wu was empty, so Prince Guang ordered Zhuan Zhu to assassinate King Liao of Wu and proclaimed himself king. This was the King's House of Wu.
After Helu became independent, and his wish came true, he recalled his military officers, worshiped him as a pedestrian, and discussed national affairs with him.
Chu State killed its ministers Pei Wan and Bozhou Li. Bo Zhouli's grandson Bo Pei fled to Wu State, and Wu State also appointed Bo Pei as a high official.
Previously, the two princes sent by King Liao of Wu to attack the Chu State were cut off and could not return home. Later, when they heard that Helu had killed King Liao of Wu and proclaimed himself king, he led his army and surrendered to the State of Chu. The State of Chu granted Shu land to them.
In the third year after Helu proclaimed himself king, he mobilized his army, Wu Zixu, and Bo Pei to attack Chu State, occupied Shudi, and captured the two generals who had betrayed Wu State.
So Helu wanted to take advantage of the victory and march into the capital of Ying. General Sun Wu said: "The people are very tired and cannot continue. Let's wait for the opportunity."
He withdrew his troops and returned home.
In the fourth year of Helu, the state of Wu attacked the state of Chu and captured the six lands and the land of Hao.
In the fifth year of Helu, the State of Wu attacked the State of Yue and defeated it.
In the sixth year of Helu, King Zhao of Chu sent his son Nang Wa to lead an army to attack Wu.
The state of Wu sent Wu Zixu to fight, defeated the army of the state of Chu in Yuzhang, and captured the Chu state's Juchao.
In the ninth year of Helu, King Helu of Wu said to Zixu and Sun Wu: At first you said that Ying was not to be invaded. What is the situation now?
Zixu and Sun Wu replied: General Nang Wa of Chu is greedy for money, and both Tang and Cai resent him.
If the king must attack Chu on a large scale, he must first get help from Tang and Cai.
Helu listened to their advice and dispatched all the troops to attack Chu together with Tang and Cai, and faced off with the Chu army on both sides of the Han River.
King Wu's younger brother Fu Gai led the army and asked to accompany him on the expedition. King Wu refused, so Fu Gai used five thousand of his men to attack Chu general Zichang. Zichang was defeated and fled, heading straight to Zheng.
So the Wu army took advantage of the victory and advanced, and after five battles, they reached the capital of Ying.
On Ji Mao day, King Zhao of Chu fled.
The next day, King Wu entered the capital of Ying.
After King Zhao of Chu fled, he came to Yunmeng. Here King Zhao was attacked by bandits and fled to Yundi.
Dou Huai, the younger brother of Duke Yun Douxin, said: "King Ping killed our father. Isn't it also okay for us to kill his son?"
Duke Yun was worried that his brother would kill King Zhao, so he fled to other places with King Zhao.
Wu soldiers surrounded everywhere and said to the people everywhere: The descendants of the Zhou Dynasty in the Han River Basin were all wiped out by the Chu State.
When the others wanted to kill King Zhao, Wang Ziqi hid him and pretended to be King Zhao to frustrate them.
The hexagrams showed that it would be unlucky to hand over King Zhao to the Wu army, so he declined the offer and did not hand over King Zhao.
At first, Wu Zixu and Shen Baoxu were close friends. When Wu Zixu escaped, he said to Baoxu: I must overthrow the state of Chu.
Bao Xu said: I must save Chu State.
When Wu soldiers invaded the capital of Ying, Wu Zixu searched for King Zhao but could not find him, so he dug up King Ping's grave, dragged out his body, and whipped him three hundred times before stopping.
Shen Baoxu fled to the mountains and sent people to say to Wu Zixu: "You are going too far to take revenge like this!"


Chunk 3: 
original: 
吾闻之，人众者胜天，天定亦能破人。
今子故平王之臣，亲北面而事之，今至於僇死人，此岂其无天道之极乎！
伍子胥曰： 为我谢申包胥曰，吾日暮途远，吾故倒行而逆施之。
於是申包胥走秦告急，求救於秦。秦不许。
包胥立於秦廷，昼夜哭，七日七夜不绝其声。
秦哀公怜之，曰： 楚虽无道，有臣若是，可无存乎！
乃遣车五百乘救楚击吴。
六月，败吴兵於稷。
会吴王久留楚求昭王，而阖庐弟夫概乃亡归，自立为王。
阖庐闻之，乃释楚而归，击其弟夫概。
夫概败走，遂奔楚。
楚昭王见吴有内乱，乃复入郢。封夫概於堂谿，为堂谿氏。
楚复与吴战，败吴，吴王乃归。
後二岁，阖庐使太子夫差将兵伐楚，取番。
楚惧吴复大来，乃去郢，徙於鄀。
当是时，吴以伍子胥、孙武之谋，西破彊楚，北威齐晋，南服越人。
其後四年，孔子相鲁。
後五年，伐越。
越王勾践迎击，败吴於姑苏，伤阖庐指，军卻。
阖庐病创将死，谓太子夫差曰： 尔忘勾践杀尔父乎？
夫差对曰： 不敢忘。
是夕，阖庐死。
夫差既立为王，以伯嚭为太宰，习战射。
二年後伐越，败越於夫湫。越王勾践乃以馀兵五千人栖於会稽之上，使大夫种厚币遗吴太宰嚭以请和，求委国为臣妾。吴王将许之。
伍子胥谏曰： 越王为人能辛苦。今王不灭，後必悔之。
吴王不听，用太宰嚭计，与越平。
其後五年，而吴王闻齐景公死而大臣争宠，新君弱，乃兴师北伐齐。
translation: 
I have heard: Although many people can conquer Heaven, God's anger can also destroy people.
You were originally a minister of King Ping, and you personally served him as a minister, but now you have gone so far as to insult a dead man. Isn't this the height of cruelty?
Wu Zixu said to the visitor: "Tell Shen Baoxu for me: I am old and have reached the end of my life." Because I am eager for revenge, I will act against the will and reason.
So Shen Baoxu went to Qin to report the critical situation and asked Qin for help, but Qin refused.
Shen Baoxu stood in the Qin court and cried day and night without interruption for seven days and seven nights.
Duke Ai of Qin sympathized with him and said: Although the King of Chu is an unprincipled and ignorant king, how can he not preserve the Chu Kingdom with such ministers?
So he sent 500 chariots to save Chu and attack Wu.
In June, he defeated Wu's army in Jidi.
Just when King Wu stayed in Chu for a long time to look for King Chu Zhao, Helu's younger brother Fugai fled back to the country and proclaimed himself king.
When Helu heard the news, he abandoned Chu and rushed back to attack his brother Fugai.
Fugai was defeated and fled to the state of Chu.
King Zhao of Chu saw that there was an internal turmoil in the state of Wu, so he fought back to the capital of Ying and granted Tangxi to Fugai, calling him the Tangxi clan.
The Chu State fought against the Wu Army again and defeated the Wu Army. The King of Wu returned to his country.
Two years later, Helu sent Prince Fucha to lead an army to attack Chu and seize the territory.
The Chu State was afraid of another large-scale attack by Wu's army, so it left Ying City and moved its capital to Pouyi.
At this time, Wu State used the strategies of Wu Zixu and Sun Wu to defeat the powerful Chu State in the west, suppressed Qi and Jin in the north, and surrendered Yue in the south.
Four years after Fu Chai attacked Chu and took over, Confucius became the Prime Minister of the State of Lu.
Five more years later, the Wu army attacked Yue.
King Gou Jian of Yue led his troops to fight, and defeated the Wu army in Gusu. He injured King Wu's toe in Helu, and the Wu army withdrew.
The wound in Helu worsened and became serious. When he was about to die, he said to Prince Fucha: Will you forget that Goujian killed your father?
Fu Chai replied: I dare not forget.
That night, Helu died.
After Fu Chai succeeded to the throne as King of Wu, he appointed Bo Pi as Grand Administrator to train soldiers.
Two years later, he attacked the Yue State and defeated the Yue army at Fuqiu. King Gou Lu of Yue took the remaining defeated generals to live on Kuaiji Mountain. He sent the official Wen Zhong to present Dazai Pei with heavy gifts and asked for peace. He entrusted the state power to the Wu State and was willing to be the slave of the Wu State.
King Wu was about to agree to Yue's request, but Wu Zixu advised him: King Gou Jian of Yue is a hard-working man. If you don't annihilate him now, you will definitely regret it in the future.
The King of Wu did not listen to Wu Zixu's advice, but adopted Dazai Pi's strategy to negotiate peace with Yue.
In the fifth year after negotiating peace with Yue, King Wu heard that Qi Jinggong had died, ministers were vying for power, and the new king was weak, so he sent his army to attack Qi in the north.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
伍子胥谏曰： 勾践食不重味，吊死问疾，且欲有所用之也。
此人不死，必为吴患。
今吴之有越，犹人之有腹心疾也。
而王不先越而乃务齐，不亦谬乎！
吴王不听，伐齐，大败齐师於艾陵，遂威邹鲁之君以归。
益疏子胥之谋。
其後四年，吴王将北伐齐，越王勾践用子贡之谋，乃率其众以助吴，而重宝以献遗太宰嚭。
太宰嚭既数受越赂，其爱信越殊甚，日夜为言於吴王。
吴王信用嚭之计。
伍子胥谏曰： 夫越，腹心之病，今信其浮辞诈伪而贪齐。
破齐，譬犹石田，无所用之。
且盘庚之诰曰： 有颠越不恭，劓殄灭之，俾无遗育，无使易种于兹邑。
此商之所以兴。
原王释齐而先越；若不然，後将悔之无及。
而吴王不听，使子胥於齐。
子胥临行，谓其子曰： 吾数谏王，王不用，吾今见吴之亡矣。汝与吴俱亡，无益也。
乃属其子於齐鲍牧，而还报吴。
吴太宰嚭既与子胥有隙，因谗曰： 子胥为人刚暴，少恩，猜贼，其怨望恐为深祸也。
前日王欲伐齐，子胥以为不可，王卒伐之而有大功。子胥耻其计谋不用，乃反怨望。
而今王又复伐齐，子胥专愎彊谏，沮毁用事，徒幸吴之败以自胜其计谋耳。
今王自行，悉国中武力以伐齐，而子胥谏不用，因辍谢，详病不行。
王不可不备，此起祸不难。
且嚭使人微伺之，其使於齐也，乃属其子於齐之鲍氏。
夫为人臣，内不得意，外倚诸侯，自以为先王之谋臣，今不见用，常鞅鞅怨望。
原王早图之。
吴王曰： 微子之言，吾亦疑之。
translation: 
Wu Zixu advised: Gou Jian does not eat two kinds of meat dishes in one meal. He mourns the dead and condolences the sick, and plans to make a difference.
If this man doesn't die, he will definitely be a disaster for the state of Wu.
Now that the state of Wu has the state of Yue by its side, it is like suffering from a heart disease.
Isn't it ridiculous for the king to devote himself to attacking Qi without first eradicating Yue?
The king of Wu did not listen to Wu Zixu's advice and attacked Qi. The Qi army was severely defeated in Ailing, so he overawed the kings of Zou and Lu and returned home.
From then on, Wu Zixu followed Wu Zixu's strategies less and less.
In the next four years, Wu Wangbei planned to go north to attack Qi. King Gou Jian of Yue adopted Zigong's strategy and led his troops to help Wu fight and presented precious treasures to Dazai Pei.
Dazai Pei accepted bribes from Yue many times. He liked and trusted the King of Yue more and more, and spoke good words for the King of Yue in front of the King of Wu day and night.
The King of Wu always believed and adopted Dazai Pei's strategies.
Wu Zixu advised the King of Wu: "The Yue State is a serious concern. Now I believe in the exaggerated, cunning and deceitful words, and I want to take credit for attacking Qi State."
Even if Qi was conquered, it would only occupy a stone field, which was of no use at all.
Moreover, "Pangeng's Edict" says: Those who violate etiquette and disrespect the king's orders must be completely exterminated so that they cannot carry on the family lineage. Don't let them influence the good people in this city.
This is why the Shang Dynasty flourished.
I hope the king will give up Qi and attack Yue first; if not, it will be too late to regret now.
The King of Wu did not listen to Wu Zixu's advice and sent him as an envoy to Qi.
Before Zixu left, he said to his son: I have repeatedly warned the king, but the king did not listen. I have now seen the end of the Kingdom of Wu. It would be meaningless for you and the Kingdom of Wu to be destroyed.
He entrusted his son to Bao Mu of Qi State and returned to Wu State to report to the King of Wu.
The Grand Prime Minister of Wu State, Pi, had a quarrel with Wu Zixu for a long time, so he took the opportunity to speak ill of Wu Zixu in front of the King of Wu: Wu Zixu is a tough and vicious man, without friendship, jealous and vicious, and his resentment may lead to serious disasters.
The last time the king wanted to attack Qi, Wu Zixu thought it was impossible. The king finally sent troops and won a major victory. Zixu felt ashamed that his strategy was not adopted, but he felt resentful.
Now the king is about to attack Qi again, but Wu Zixu is too arbitrary and stubborn to stop him, corrupting and slandering the king's cause. He only hopes that Wu's defeat will prove his clever strategy.
Now the king personally went on an expedition and mobilized all the armed forces of the country to attack Qi. However, Wu Zixu's advice was not accepted, so he stopped going to court and pretended to be ill and did not go with the king.
Your Majesty, you must be on guard, as this can easily lead to disaster.
Moreover, I sent people to investigate secretly. When he was on a mission to Qi, he entrusted his son to the Bao family of Qi.
As a minister, he is not satisfied at home, and relies on the princes outside. He thinks that he is the adviser of the former king. Now he is not trusted, and he is often depressed and resentful.
I hope your Majesty will find a solution to this matter as soon as possible.
King Wu said: Without your words, I would have doubted him.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
乃使使赐伍子胥属镂之剑，曰： 子以此死。
伍子胥仰天叹曰： 嗟乎！
谗臣嚭为乱矣，王乃反诛我。
我令若父霸。
自若未立时，诸公子争立，我以死争之於先王，几不得立。
若既得立，欲分吴国予我，我顾不敢望也。然今若听谀臣言以杀长者。
乃告其舍人曰： 必树吾墓上以梓，令可以为器；而抉吾眼县吴东门之上，以观越寇之入灭吴也。
乃自刭死。吴王闻之大怒，乃取子胥尸盛以鸱夷革，浮之江中。
吴人怜之，为立祠於江上，因命曰胥山。
吴王既诛伍子胥，遂伐齐。
齐鲍氏杀其君悼公而立阳生。
吴王欲讨其贼，不胜而去。
其後二年，吴王召鲁卫之君会之橐皋。
其明年，因北大会诸侯於黄池，以令周室。
越王勾践袭杀吴太子，破吴兵。
吴王闻之，乃归，使使厚币与越平。
後九年，越王勾践遂灭吴，杀王夫差；而诛太宰嚭，以不忠於其君，而外受重赂，与己比周也。
伍子胥初所与俱亡故楚太子建之子胜者，在於吴。
吴王夫差之时，楚惠王欲召胜归楚。
叶公谏曰： 胜好勇而阴求死士，殆有私乎！
惠王不听。遂召胜，使居楚之边邑鄢，号为白公。
白公归楚三年而吴诛子胥。
白公胜既归楚，怨郑之杀其父，乃阴养死士求报郑。
归楚五年，请伐郑，楚令尹子西许之。
兵未发而晋伐郑，郑请救於楚。楚使子西往救，与盟而还。
白公胜怒曰： 非郑之仇，乃子西也。
胜自砺剑，人问曰： 何以为？
胜曰： 欲以杀子西。
子西闻之，笑曰： 胜如卵耳，何能为也。
其後四岁，白公胜与石乞袭杀楚令尹子西、司马子綦於朝。
translation: 
He sent an envoy to give Wu Zixu the engraved sword and said: "You use this sword to commit suicide."
Wu Zixu looked up at the sky and sighed: Alas!
I slandered the villain Bo Pei and wanted to cause trouble, but the king came to kill me.
I made your father king.
Before you were confirmed as the heir to the throne, the princes were vying to be crown prince. I fought to the death in front of the late king and could hardly get the crown prince's position.
After you became the crown prince, you also promised to give me a portion of the Kingdom of Wu, but I have no hope that you will repay me. But now you actually listened to the bad words of a flattering villain and killed your elders.
So he told his close followers: You must plant a catalpa tree on my tomb so that it can grow up and make a coffin. Goug out my eyeballs and hang them on the east gate of Wu's capital to watch how the Yue invaders enter the capital and destroy Wu.
So he committed suicide and died. When the king of Wu heard this, he was furious, so he put Wu Zixu's body in a leather bag and floated it in the river.
The people of Wu State sympathized with him and built an ancestral hall for him by the river. Therefore, they named this place Xushan.
After King Wu killed Wu Zixu, he attacked Qi.
The Bao family of Qi killed their king, Duke Ai, and assisted Yang Sheng as king.
King Wu planned to attack the Bao family, but he withdrew his troops before winning.
Two years later, King Wu summoned the kings of Lu and Wei to meet at Lugao for an alliance.
The next year, he headed north and gathered the princes in Huangchi to give orders to the Emperor of Zhou.
At this time, King Gou Jian of Yue attacked the state of Wu, killed the prince of the state of Wu, and defeated the army of the state of Wu.
When King Wu heard the news, he returned to his country and sent envoys to negotiate peace with Yue with rich and valuable gifts.
Nine years later, King Gou Jian of Yue finally destroyed the state of Wu, killed King Wu Fu Chai, and killed Dazai Pei because he was disloyal to his king, accepted valuable bribes from foreign countries, and secretly became close to the state of Yue.
The son of Prince Jian of Chu, who had fled with Wu Zixu, lived in the state of Wu.
When King Wu Fu Chai was in power, King Hui of Chu wanted to summon Sheng back to Chu.
Ye Gongju advised: Sheng loves bravery and secretly seeks out warriors who dare to die. He may have selfish motives!
King Hui didn't listen to his advice, so he finally called Sheng back and let him live in Yan, the border town of Chu. Known as Bai Gong.
Three years after Duke Bai returned to Chu, King Wu killed Wu Zixu.
Not long after Duke Bai returned to Chu State, he resented Zheng Guo for killing his father, so he secretly recruited warriors who dared to die to avenge Zheng Guo.
After returning to Chu State for five years, he asked the King of Chu to attack Zheng State. Yin Zixi, the order of Chu State, agreed to his request.
However, Jin had already sent troops to attack Zheng before it sent troops. Zheng sent people to Chu to ask for rescue. King Chu sent Zixi to rescue Zheng and made an alliance with Zheng before returning.
Bai Gongsheng was angry and said: My enemy is not Zheng Guo, my enemy is Zixi!
Bai Gongsheng sharpened the sword himself. Someone asked him: What do you use it for?
Bai Gongsheng replied: "I want to use it to kill Zixi."
When Zixi heard about this, he smiled and said: "Bai Gongsheng is like a bird's egg, what can he do!"
Four years later, Bai Gongsheng and Shi Qi suddenly assassinated Ling Yin Zixi and Sima Ziqi in the court.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
石乞曰： 不杀王，不可。
乃劫王如高府。
石乞从者屈固负楚惠王亡走昭夫人之宫。
叶公闻白公为乱，率其国人攻白公。
白公之徒败，亡走山中，自杀。
而虏石乞，而问白公尸处，不言将亨。
石乞曰： 事成为卿，不成而亨，固其职也。
终不肯告其尸处。
遂亨石乞，而求惠王复立之。
太史公曰：怨毒之於人甚矣哉！
王者尚不能行之於臣下，况同列乎！
向令伍子胥从奢俱死，何异蝼蚁。
弃小义，雪大耻，名垂於後世，悲夫！
方子胥窘於江上，道乞食，志岂尝须臾忘郢邪？
故隐忍就功名，非烈丈夫孰能致此哉？
白公如不自立为君者，其功谋亦不可胜道者哉！
translation: 
Shi Qi said: "I can't do it without killing King Hui of Chu."
So, King Hui of Chu was kidnapped and taken to Gaofu.
Shi Qi's follower Qu Gu fled to the palace where Mrs. Zhao lived, carrying King Hui of Chu on his back.
When Ye Gong heard that Bai Gongsheng was in trouble, he led his people to attack Bai Gongsheng.
Bai Gongsheng and his group were defeated, and Bai Gongsheng fled to the mountains and committed suicide.
Shi Qi was captured and asked where Bai Gongsheng's body was. If he didn't tell him, he would be boiled to death.
Shi Qi said: If things succeed, you will be the prime minister; if they fail, you will be boiled to death. This is the duty you should fulfill.
In the end, he refused to tell where Bai Gongsheng's body was.
So, Shi Qi was boiled to death. Find King Hui of Chu and make him king.
Tai Shigong said: Resentment is too powerful for human beings!
The king cannot have enmity with his ministers, let alone those with the same status!
If Wu Zixu died with his father Wu She, what would be the difference between him and an ant?
Give up small righteousness, wash away the big shame, and let your reputation be passed down to future generations. How sad!
When Wu Zixu was in distress by the river and begging along the road, did his mind forget the hatred of Yingdu for a moment?
Therefore, who can achieve such a level without being a man of upright character and temperament who can exercise restraint and patience to achieve fame!
If Duke Bai had not established himself as king, his achievements and strategies would probably be endless!


