Summary uses chunk [0, 5, 10]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
黥布者，六人也，姓英氏。秦时为布衣。
少年，有客相之曰： 当刑而王。
及壮，坐法黥。
布欣然笑曰； 人相我当刑而王，几是乎？
人有闻者，共俳笑之。
布已论输丽山，丽山之徒数十万人，布皆与其徒长豪桀交通，乃率其曹偶，亡之江中为群盗。
陈胜之起也，布乃见番君，与其众叛秦，聚兵数千人。
番君以其女妻之。
章邯之灭陈胜，破吕臣军，布乃引兵北击秦左右校，破之清波，引兵而东。
闻项梁定江东会稽，涉江而西。陈婴以项氏世为楚将，乃以兵属项梁，渡淮南，英布、蒲将军亦以兵属项梁。
项梁涉淮而西，击景驹、秦嘉等，布常冠军。
项梁至薛，闻陈王定死，乃立楚怀王。
项梁号为武信君，英布为当阳君。
translation: 
Qingbu is from Liuxian County and his surname is Ying. During the Qin Dynasty, he was a common man.
When he was a child, a guest showed him a fortune and said: After being tortured, I will be king.
When he reached his prime, he broke the law and was sentenced to tattoo.
Tingbu smiled happily and said: Someone showed me a picture and said that I should be king after being tortured. Now, this is probably the situation, right?
Everyone who heard him say this laughed at him.
Not long after his conviction, Yingbu was sent to Lishan for hard labor. There were hundreds of thousands of prisoners in Lishan.
When Chen Sheng rebelled, Ying Bu went to see Wu Rui, the magistrate of Fan County, and rebelled against the Qin Dynasty with his men, gathering a team of several thousand people.
Magistrate Fan even married his daughter to him.
After Zhang Han eliminated Chen Sheng and defeated Lu Chen's army, Yingbu led his troops north to attack Qin's left and right schools, defeated them at Qingbo, and then led his troops to advance eastward.
Yingbu heard that Xiang Liang had pacified Kuaiji in the east of the Yangtze River and crossed the Yangtze River to march west. Chen Ying led his army to Xiang Liang because Xiang had been the general of the Chu State for generations, and crossed the Huai River southward. Generals Yingbu and Pu also led their troops to join Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang led his troops across the Huaihe River and marched westward. In the battles against Jingju, Qin Jia and others, Qingbu was brave and good at fighting and was always ranked first among the troops.
Xiang Liang arrived in Xuedi and heard that King Chen was indeed dead, so he supported King Huai of Chu.
Xiang Liang was called Wu Xinjun, and Yingbu was called Dangyang Lord.

summary:
summary line 0: Yingbu, a commoner from Liuxian County with the surname Ying, was predicted in his youth to become a king after being tortured. After being sentenced to tattooing for breaking the law, he laughed at the prophecy's fulfillment. Sent to hard labor at Lishan, he later rebelled against the Qin Dynasty with Wu Rui, the magistrate of Fan County, gathering thousands of troops. Yingbu joined Xiang Liang, proving himself brave in battle, and was titled Dangyang Lord. After Xiang Liang's death, he served under Xiang Ji (Xiang Yu), leading attacks that defeated the Qin army and forced Zhang Han's surrender. Yingbu buried over 200,000 Qin soldiers alive and helped Xiang Yu enter Xianyang. He was named King of Jiujiang and later killed the Righteous Emperor on Xiang Yu's orders.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
布曰： 如使者教，因起兵而击之耳。
於是杀使者，因起兵而攻楚。
楚使项声、龙且攻淮南，项王留而攻下邑。
数月，龙且击淮南，破布军。
布欲引兵走汉，恐楚王杀之，故间行与何俱归汉。
淮南王至，上方踞床洗，召布入见，布大怒，悔来，欲自杀。
出就舍，帐御饮食从官如汉王居，布又大喜过望。
於是乃使人入九江。
楚已使项伯收九江兵，尽杀布妻子。
布使者颇得故人幸臣，将众数千人归汉。
汉益分布兵而与俱北，收兵至成皋。
四年七月，立布为淮南王，与击项籍。
汉五年，布使人入九江，得数县。
六年，布与刘贾入九江，诱大司马周殷，周殷反楚，遂举九江兵与汉击楚，破之垓下。
translation: 
Yingbu said: Just follow your instructions and send troops to attack Chu.
So he killed the envoy and sent troops to attack Chu.
Chu State then sent Xiang Sheng and Long Qie to attack Huainan, while King Xiang stayed to attack Xiayi.
The war lasted for several months, and Long Qie defeated Yingbu's army in the battle of Huainan.
Yingbu wanted to lead his troops to retreat to Han, but he was afraid that Chu's army would intercept and kill him, so he and Suihe fled back to Han through a hidden trail.
When King Huainan arrived, the King of Han was sitting on the bed washing his feet, so he asked Yingbu to see him. When Yingbu saw this, he was so angry that he regretted coming and wanted to commit suicide.
When he exited and came to the hotel prepared for him, Yingbu was overjoyed again when he saw that the curtains, utensils, food, and attendant officials were as luxurious as those of the King of Han.
So he sent people to Jiujiang.
At this time, the King of Chu had sent Xiang Bo to recruit Jiujiang's troops and killed Yingbu's wife and children.
The people sent by Yingbu found Yingbu's friends and close subordinates, and took thousands of people to defect to the king of Han.
The king of Han gave Yingbu more troops and went north with him to recruit troops at Chenggao.
In July of the fourth year of Han Dynasty, the king of Han granted Yingbu the title of King of Huainan, and together with him he attacked Xiang Ji.
In the fifth year of the Han Dynasty, Yingbu sent people into Jiujiang and captured several counties.
In the sixth year of the Han Dynasty, Yingbu and Liu Jia entered Jiujiang and lured the great Sima Zhou Yin to surrender. After Zhou Yin rebelled against the Chu State, he mobilized the Jiujiang army and the Han army to jointly attack the Chu State and defeated the Chu army in Gaixia.

summary:
summary line 1: During the Chu-Han conflict, Yingbu feigned illness to avoid aiding Xiang Yu, who grew resentful. The Han king, valuing Yingbu's talents, sent Sui He to persuade him to defect. Sui He argued that Chu was weak and unjust, while Han was strong, promising Yingbu land and titles. Yingbu agreed, killed the Chu envoy, and attacked Chu. After being defeated by Long Qie, he fled to Han with Sui He. Initially angered by the Han king's casual reception, he was pleased by the luxurious treatment. The Han king granted him the title King of Huainan, and Yingbu helped defeat Xiang Yu at Gaixia.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
楚发兵与战徐、僮间，为三军，欲以相救为奇。
或说楚将曰： 布善用兵，民素畏之。
且兵法，诸侯战其地为散地。
今别为三，彼败吾一军，馀皆走，安能相救！
不听。
布果破其一军，其二军散走。
遂西，与上兵遇蕲西，会甀。
布兵精甚，上乃壁庸城，望布军置陈如项籍军，上恶之。
与布相望见，遥谓布曰： 何苦而反？
布曰： 欲为帝耳。
上怒骂之，遂大战。
布军败走，渡淮，数止战，不利，与百馀人走江南。
布故与番君婚，以故长沙哀王使人绐布，伪与亡，诱走越，故信而随之番阳。番阳人杀布兹乡民田舍，遂灭黥布。
立皇子长为淮南王，封贲赫为期思侯，诸将率多以功封者。
太史公曰：英布者，其先岂春秋所见楚灭英、六，皋陶之後哉？
translation: 
The state of Chu mobilized its troops to fight Yingbu between Xu and Tong. The state of Chu divided its troops into three groups and tried to adopt a strange strategy of mutual rescue.
Someone advised the Chu general: Yingbu is good at using troops to fight, and the people have always been afraid of him.
Moreover, the Art of War says: When princes fight the enemy in their own territory, once the soldiers are in danger, they will flee.
Now the troops are divided into three groups. As long as they defeat one of our troops, the rest will run away. How can they rescue each other?
The Chu general did not listen to the advice.
Sure enough, Yingbo defeated one of the armies, and the other two armies fled in all directions.
Yingbu's army advanced westward and met the emperor's army at Huizhen, west of Qixian County.
Yingbu's army was very elite, so the emperor hid in the fortress of Yongcheng and could not get out. When he saw that Yingbu's formation was just like Xiang Ji's army, the emperor was very disgusted with him.
Seeing Yingbu from a distance, he said to Yingbu from a distance: Why bother to rebel?
Yingbu said: I want to be the emperor!
The emperor was furious and scolded him, and then the two armies fought.
Yingbu's army was defeated and fled, crossing the Huaihe River. They stopped and fought several times, but all failed, so they had to flee to the south of the Yangtze River with more than a hundred people.
Yingbu was originally married to the magistrate of Fan County. Therefore, King Ai of Changsha sent someone to trick Yingbu into fleeing to South Vietnam. Yingbu believed him and followed him to Fanyang. The Fanyang people killed Yingbu in the houses of the people in Zixiang and finally destroyed Yingbu.
The emperor appointed Prince Liu Chang as the King of Huainan, and granted Benhe the title of Marquis of Si. Most of the generals were rewarded for their military exploits.
Tai Shigong said: Yingbu, are his ancestors the descendants of the British and Six Kingdoms Gaotao who were destroyed by the Chu Kingdom as recorded in the "Spring and Autumn"?

summary:
summary line 2: After peace, Yingbu grew fearful upon seeing the execution of Han Xin and Peng Yue. His favored concubine's praise of a doctor's neighbor, Ben He, led to suspicion of adultery. Ben He fled to Chang'an and reported Yingbu's rebellion. Despite initial disbelief, Yingbu killed Ben He's family and rebelled. The emperor consulted Xue Gong, who predicted Yingbu would choose a poor strategy—attacking Wu and Chu but fleeing to Changsha. Yingbu indeed attacked Jing and Chu, defeating them, but was routed by the emperor's army at Huizhen. He fled south with a hundred men, was tricked by King Ai of Changsha, and killed by Fanyang people. The emperor made Prince Liu Chang King of Huainan. The historian notes Yingbu's rise from tattooing to kingship, his role in massacres, and his downfall due to jealousy over a concubine.

