Chunk 0: 
original: 
山涛，字巨源，河内怀人也。
父曜，宛句令。
涛早孤，居贫，少有器量，介然不群。
性好《庄》《老》，每隐身自晦。
与嵇康、吕安善，后遇阮籍，便为竹林之交，著忘言之契。康后坐事，临诛，谓子绍曰： 巨源在，汝不孤矣。
涛年四十，始为郡主簿、功曹、上计掾。
举孝廉，州辟部河南从事。
与石鉴共宿，涛夜起蹴鉴曰： 今为何等时而眠邪！
知太傅卧何意？
鉴曰： 宰相三不朝，与尺一令归第，卿何虑也！
涛曰： 咄！石生无事马蹄间邪！
投传而去。
未二年，果有曹爽之事，遂隐身不交世务。
与宣穆后有中表亲，是以见景帝。
帝曰： 吕望欲仕邪？
命司隶举秀才，除郎中。
转骠骑将军王昶从事中郎。
久之，拜赵国相，迁尚书吏部郎。
文帝与涛书曰： 足下在事清明，雅操迈时。
念多所乏，今致钱二十万、谷二百斛。
魏帝尝赐景帝春服，帝以赐涛。
又以母老，并赐藜杖一枚。
晚与尚书和逌交，又与钟会、裴秀并申款昵。
以二人居势争权，涛平心处中，各得其所，而俱无恨焉。
迁大将军从事中郎。
钟会作乱于蜀，而文帝将西征。
时魏氏诸王公并在鄴，帝谓涛曰： 西偏吾自了之，后事深以委卿。
以本官行军司马，给亲兵五百人，镇鄴。
咸熙初，封新沓子。
转相国左长史，典统别营。
时帝以涛乡闾宿望，命太子拜之。
帝以齐王攸继景帝后，素又重攸，尝问裴秀曰： 大将军开建未遂，吾但承奉后事耳。
故立攸，将归功于兄，何如？
秀以为不可，又以问涛。
涛对曰： 废长立少，违礼不祥。
translation: 
Shantao is named Juyuan, and Hanoi embraces people.
Father Shan Yao is Wanjuling.
Shantao lost his father in his early years and his family was poor. When he was young, he was thoughtful and unique.
He likes "Zhuangzi" and "Laozi" and often hides himself without showing his talents.
He had friendship with Ji Kang and Lu An, and later met Ruan Ji, and established a friendship in the bamboo forest and became the Seven Sages of the Bamboo Forest. They had a tacit understanding of understanding each other without having to speak. Ji Kang was later convicted. Before his execution, he said to his son Ji Shao: With Juyuan here, you are no longer an orphan.
Shan Tao was forty years old, and he was initially appointed as the princess's administrator, meritorious officer, and chief planner.
He was elected Xiaolian, and the state called him to serve in the Ministry of Henan.
Living with Shi Jian, Shan Tao wrapped himself up at night and pushed Shi Jian awake and said: "When are you still sleeping now?"
Do you know what Tai Tu meant by calling him sick?
Shi Jian said: "The prime minister failed to come to court three times, so I issued an edict to let him go home. What are you worried about?"
Shan Tao said: Alas, Mr. Shi will not be in danger during the war!
He threw down the talisman and left.
Within two years, Cao Shuang changed his mind and he became invisible and no longer participated in world affairs.
After Yu Xuanmu was a middle cousin, he met Emperor Jing.
Emperor Jing said: "Does Lu Wang want to be an official?"
He was ordered to recommend him as a scholar and a doctor.
He was transferred to General Wang Chang and served as a lieutenant.
After a long time, he paid homage to Zhao Guoxiang. He was promoted to minister of official affairs.
Emperor Wen wrote to Shan Tao: You are honest and smart in doing things, and your elegant conduct is beyond the world.
Considering your shortage of various supplies, I will send you 200,000 yuan of money and 200 dendrobium of grain today.
Emperor Wei once gave spring clothes to Emperor Jing, who in turn gave them to Shan Tao.
And because his mother was old, she also gave him a quinoa staff.
In his later years, he interacted with Shangshu Hekui and treated Zhong Hui and Pei Xiu sincerely and intimately.
Since they were high-ranking officials and competed for power, Shantao lived peacefully among them, each getting what he wanted without any regrets.
He was promoted to general and became a lieutenant.
The bell box is causing chaos in Shu, and Sai Tong will march westward.
At that time, all the princes of the Wei family were in Ye, and Emperor Wen said to Shan Tao: I will handle the affairs in the west by myself, and I will entrust you with everything in the rear.
I appointed my officer as an agent for the marching Sima, and assigned 500 personal soldiers to guard Ye.
In the early years of Xianxi's reign, he was named Xin Da Zi.
He was transferred to the post of Prime Minister Zuo Changshi and took charge of other camps.
At that time, the emperor ordered the prince to pay homage to Shan Tao because he was famous in the countryside.
The emperor succeeded King Jing with Sima You, King of Qi, and he always thought highly of Sima You. He once asked Pei Xiu: "The general failed to achieve his great cause, so I only inherited what he did after his death."
Therefore, the appointment of Sima You will be attributed to his brother, is that okay?
Pei Zhou thought it was impossible and asked Shan Tao about this matter.
Shan Tao replied: It is against etiquette and ominous to abolish the elder and establish the younger.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
国之安危，恆必由之。
太子位于是乃定。
太子亲拜谢涛。
及武帝受禅，以涛守大鸿胪，护送陈留王诣鄴。
泰始初，加奉车都尉，进爵新沓伯。
及羊祜执政，时人欲危裴秀，涛正色保持之。
由是失权臣意，出为冀州刺史，加宁远将军。
冀州俗薄，无相推毂。
涛甄拔隐屈，搜访贤才，旌命三十余人，皆显名当时。
人怀慕尚，风俗颇革。
转北中郎将，督鄴城守事。
入为侍中，迁尚书。
以母老辞职，诏曰： 君虽乃心在于色养，然职有上下，旦夕不废医药，且当割情，以隆在公。
涛心求退，表疏数十上，久乃见听。
除议郎，帝以涛清俭无以供养，特给日契，加赐床帐茵褥。
礼秩崇重，时莫为比。
后除太常卿，以疾不就。
会遭母丧，归乡里。
涛年逾耳顺，居丧过礼，负土成坟，手植松柏。
诏曰： 吾所共致化者，官人之职是也。
方今风欲陵迟，人心进动，宜崇明好恶，镇以退让。
山太常虽尚居谅闇，情在难夺，方今务殷，何得遂其志邪！
其以涛为吏部尚书。
涛辞以丧病，章表恳切。
会元皇后崩，遂扶兴还洛。
逼迫诏命，自力就职。
前后选举，周遍内外，而并得其才。
咸宁初，转太子少傅，加散骑常侍；除尚书仆射，加侍中，领吏部。
固辞以老疾，上表陈情。
章表数十上，久不摄职，为左丞白褒所奏。
帝曰： 涛以病自闻，但不听之耳。
使涛坐执铨衡则可，何必上下邪！
不得有所问。 涛不自安，表谢曰： 古之王道，正直而已。
陛下不可以一老臣为加曲私，臣亦何必屡陈日月。
乞如所表，以章典刑。
translation: 
The safety of the country often arises from this.
The candidate for the crown prince was then determined.
The prince personally thanked Shan Tao.
After Emperor Wu accepted the concession, he asked Shantao to guard Dahonglu and escort King Chenliu to Ye.
In the early years of Taishi, he was awarded the title of Captain of Fengche and was promoted to the title of Xin Da Po.
When Yang Hu was in power, people at that time wanted to exclude Tomb Chui, but Shan Tao protected him sternly.
Therefore, against the wishes of his powerful ministers, he left the capital to serve as the governor of Jizhou and became the general of Ningyuan.
The customs in Jizhou are despicable and they do not recommend each other.
He screened and selected hermits and aggrieved people on the mountainside, searched for and visited talented people, and commended and recruited more than 30 people. He was famous at that time.
People began to respect the worthy, and customs changed.
He was transferred to Beizhonglang General to supervise the defense of Yecheng.
After entering the dynasty, he was appointed as a minister and later as a minister.
Because his mother resigned in old age, Shao Shu said: Although you put your mind on filial piety, your duties are divided into upper and lower positions, and you have to take care of yourself sooner or later. You should let go of family ties so that the spirit of serving the public can flourish.
Shan Tao wholeheartedly requested to resign and submitted it dozens of times. It took a long time for his resignation to be accepted.
He was awarded the title of Yilang. Because the mountainside was honest and frugal and it was difficult to provide for him, the emperor specially gave him a certificate of daily supply and a bed, tent and mattress.
The courtesy salary was high and heavy, and no one could compare with it at that time.
Later, he was appointed Taichang Qing, but he did not go to his post because of illness.
My mother passed away and I returned to my hometown.
Xiying was over sixty years old and went beyond the formal mourning standards. She carried earth on her back to build a grave and planted pines and cypresses with her own hands.
Shao Shu said: The person who completes the education together with me is the official position of ruling everyone.
Nowadays, customs are declining and people's hearts are in turmoil. We should declare our likes and dislikes. How can we suppress ourselves by giving in?
Although Shan Taichang is still in mourning and it is difficult to violate human feelings, but there are many things going on now, how can he fulfill his wish?
Shanmai was appointed Shangshu of the Ministry of Personnel.
Shan Tao declined on the grounds of mourning and illness, and expressed his sincerity.
After the death of Queen Yuan, she returned to Luoyang by car.
Because of Shao Ling's persecution, he took office.
Officials were selected one after another, both inside and outside the court, and talented people were appointed.
In the early years of Xianning, he was transferred to the position of Shaofu of the Crown Prince, and was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi.
He refused firmly on the grounds of old age and illness, and stated his condition in the table above.
I have been listed dozens of times, but I have not been in office for a long time, and I was impeached by Zuo Cheng Bai.
The emperor said: Shan Tao said that he was sick, but I didn't listen to him.
Just let Shan Tao sit and be in charge of the official selection. Why care about the superiors and subordinates? Don't ask for guilt.
Shantao felt uneasy, so he apologized and said: In ancient times, the king's way was about integrity.
Your Majesty cannot be partial because of an old minister, so why should I feel like facing the sun and the moon again and again?
Please follow the above table to clarify the laws and regulations.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
帝再手诏曰： 白褒奏君甚妄，所以不即推，直不喜凶赫耳。
君之明度，岂当介意邪！
便当摄职，令断章表也。
涛志必欲退，因发从弟妇丧，辄还外舍。
诏曰： 山仆射近日暂出，遂以微苦未还，岂吾侧席之意。
其遣丞掾奉诏谕旨，若体力故未平康者，便以舆车舆还寺舍。
涛辞不获已，乃起视事。
涛再居选职十有余年，每一官缺，辄启拟数人，诏旨有所向，然后显奏，随帝意所欲为先。
故帝之所用，或非举首，众情不察，以涛轻重任意。
或谮之于帝，故帝手诏戒涛曰： 夫用人惟才，不遗疏远单贱，天下便化矣。
而涛行之自若，一年之后众情乃寝。
涛所奏甄拔人物，各为题目，时称《山公启事》。
涛中立于朝，晚值后党专权，不欲任杨氏，多有讽谏，帝虽悟而不能改。
后以年衰疾笃，上疏告退曰： 臣年垂八十，救命旦夕，若有毫末之益，岂遗力于圣时，迫以老耄，不复任事。
今四海休息，天下思化，从而静之，百姓自正。
但当崇风尚教以敦之耳，陛下亦复何事。
臣耳目聋瞑，不能自励。
君臣父子，其间无文，是以直陈愚情，乞听所请。
乃免冠徒跣，上还印绶。
君不深识往心而以小疾求退，岂所望于君邪！
朕犹侧席，未得垂拱，君亦何得高尚其事乎！当崇至公，勿复为虚饰之烦。
涛苦表请退，诏又不许。
尚书令卫瓘奏： 涛以微苦，久不视职。
手诏频烦，犹未顺旨。
参议以为无专节之尚，违在公之义。
若实沈笃，亦不宜居位。
可免涛官。
中诏瓘曰： 涛以德素为朝之望，而常深退让，至于恳切。
故比有诏，欲必夺其志，以匡辅不逮。
translation: 
The emperor issued an edict again: "It is ridiculous for Bai Bao to impeach you. The reason why I did not immediately investigate him was because I did not want to let the unlucky things be publicized."
How can you care about this with your big heart!
He should take office so that the memorial will never appear again.
Shantao resolutely gave in and returned to his home while he was mourning his cousin's wife.
The edict said: Shanpuse went on a temporary trip recently, and then he was unable to come back because of a slight illness. This is not my way of treating a wise minister.
Send the prime minister Feng Shao to read out the decree. If his physical strength has not recovered, he will be taken back to his official residence in a car.
Shan Tao couldn't refuse and began to take office.
Shan Tao once again held the post of selecting officials for more than ten years. Every time there was a vacancy in an official position, a few people were drafted, the intention was stated in the imperial edict, and then the report was publicly reported, and the order of appointment was decided according to the emperor's wishes.
Therefore, some of the people appointed by the emperor were not those who were recommended first. Everyone was unclear and believed that Shan Tao chose people arbitrarily.
Someone came to the emperor and said bad things about him, so the emperor warned Shan Tao: Use people only according to their talents, and do not alienate the poor and lowly, and the world will be peaceful.
But Shantao still did that, and it took a year for everyone's complaints to subside.
Shan Tao wrote memorials for the screening and selection, each with its own title, which was called "Monkey Announcement" at the time.
Shan Tao was an official in the government and held an important position. In his later years, he encountered the dictatorship of the Hou Party and did not want to appoint Yang. Shan Tao advised him many times. Although the emperor understood it, he could not change it.
Later, due to old age and serious illness, Shangshu resigned and said: I am nearly eighty years old and I am trying to save my life every day. If I had a little energy, how could I not contribute in this era of sage? Forced by old age, he no longer holds office.
Now the world is resting and recuperating, and the world is yearning for enlightenment to make them peaceful, and the people will naturally return to the right path.
As long as you encourage them by advocating customs and education, there is nothing else for your Majesty to do.
I am deaf, blind, and unable to encourage myself.
Lord, minister, father and son, there is no need to hide, so I state my thoughts and beg to obey my request.
So he took off his official uniform and handed over his seal and ribbon.
The edict said: There are many things in the world, and Chengli has just been pacified and Pepsi has been founded. We should work together to promote education.
You don't remember the past and asked to retire due to a minor illness. Is this what I expected?
Shantao petitioned to retire, but the edict did not allow it.
Shangshu ordered Qian Tuo to report: Shan Tao has been out of office for a long time due to a minor illness.
The emperor repeatedly attacked, but still refused to obey.
I think this is a lack of moral integrity and violates the principle of serving justice wholeheartedly.
If you are really seriously ill, you should not be in a high position.
Shan Tao can be removed from his official position.
Xia Shao wrote to Man Dui: Shan Tao's virtue has always been valued by the imperial court, and he often made concessions deeply and sincerely.
Therefore, there were successive edicts to change his mind and assist the court.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
主者既不思明诏旨，而反深加诋案。亏崇贤之风，以重吾不德，何以示远近邪！
涛不得已，又起视事。
太康初，迁右仆射，加光禄大夫，侍中、掌选如故。
涛以老疾固辞，手诏曰： 君以道德为世模表，况自先帝识君远意。
吾将倚君以穆风俗，何乃欲舍远朝政，独高其志耶！吾之至怀故不足以喻乎，何来言至恳切也。
且当以时自力，深副至望。
君不降志，朕不安席。
涛又上表固让，不许。
吴平之后，帝诏天下罢军役，示海内大安，州郡悉去兵，大郡置武吏百人，小郡五十人。
帝尝讲武于宣武场，涛时有疾，诏乘步辇从。
因与卢钦论用兵之本，以为不宜去州郡武备，其论甚精。
于时咸以涛不学孙、吴，而暗与之合。
帝称之曰： 天下名言也。
而不能用。
及永宁之后，屡有变难，寇贼猋起，郡国皆以无备不能制，天下遂以大乱，如涛言焉。
后拜司徒，涛复固让。
诏曰： 郡年耆德茂，朝之硕老，是以授君台辅之位。而远崇克让，至于反覆，良用于邑。
君当终始朝政，翼辅朕躬。
涛又表曰： 臣事天朝三十余年，卒无毫厘以崇大化。
陛下私臣无已，猥授三司。
臣闻德薄位高，力少任重，上有折足之凶，下有庙门之咎，愿陛下垂累世之恩，乞臣骸骨。
诏曰： 君翼赞朝政，保乂皇家，匡佐之勋，朕所倚赖。
司徒之职，实掌帮教，故用敬授，以答群望。
岂宜冲让以自抑损邪！
已敕断章表，使者乃卧加章绶。
涛曰： 垂没之人，岂可污官府乎！
舆疾归家。
translation: 
The person in charge did not understand the purpose of Shaoshu, but instead slandered me deeply, damaging the culture of respecting sages and worsening my reputation for being unvirtuous. How can I set an example to far and near!
Shan Tao had no choice but to take up the post of director again.
In the early years of Taikang, he was promoted to Youpuse and became a Guanglu doctor, but his positions of serving in the palace and in charge of the election remained the same.
Shan Tao resolutely refused because of his old age and illness. The emperor said to Shao: "You have become a role model for the world with your morality. Moreover, I have admired your lofty ambitions since the late emperor."
I will rely on you to make customs clear. Why do you want to stay away from the government and just make your own ambitions noble? Isn't my sincerity enough to make you understand? Why do you still refuse?
We should work hard in time to meet expectations.
If you don't take back your refusal, I can't sleep peacefully.
Shantao went to the table again and firmly declined, refusing to allow it.
After Wu was pacified, the emperor issued an edict to stop military service to show peace in the world. All prefectures and counties withdrew their troops. One hundred military officials were appointed in large counties and fifty in small counties.
The emperor once gave a martial arts lecture at the Xuanwu Field. Shan Tao was ill at the time, so he sent a letter to Shao to let him follow him in a sedan chair.
So he discussed the use of troops with Lu Qin and believed that the armaments of prefectures and counties should not be withdrawn. His remarks were very accurate.
At that time, it was believed that Shanliao did not follow the example of strong tyrants and ridges, but secretly cooperated with them.
The emperor praised him and said: This is a famous saying in the world.
However it was not accepted.
After the death of the Prime Minister, there were many wars and bandits. The counties and counties were unable to resist because they were unarmed, and the world was in chaos, just as Shan Tao said.
Later, when he was appointed Situ, Liangzhan resolutely declined.
The edict said: You have high moral character and high prestige, and you are a famous elder in the court. Therefore, you were granted the high position of prime minister, but you gave in too much and repeated it many times. It is really sad.
You should always serve the government and assist me.
Shan Tao went on to say: I have served this dynasty for more than thirty years, but in the end I failed to make the slightest contribution to the advancement of education.
His Majesty favored me infinitely and granted me the position of the Third Division.
I have heard that a person with poor moral character and a high official but little ability to shoulder heavy responsibilities is in danger of ruining state affairs due to his incompetence and bringing disaster to his family. May your Majesty grant me generations of grace, and beg me to retire and return to my hometown.
The edict said: I rely on your merits in assisting the government, stabilizing the royal family, and supporting the emperor.
The position of Situ is actually in charge of national education, so I respectfully grant it to you to meet everyone's expectations.
How can you suppress and degrade yourself by giving in?
After ordering him no longer to submit memorials, he sent someone to add a seal and ribbon to Shan Tao's bed.
Shan Tao said: How can a dying person defile the government?
Riding home sick.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
以太康四年薨，时年七十九，诏赐东园秘器、朝服一具、衣一袭、钱五十万、布百匹，以供丧事，策赠司徒，蜜印紫绶，侍中貂蝉，新沓伯蜜印青硃绶，祭以太牢，谥曰康。
将葬，赐钱四十万、布百匹。
左长史范晷等上言： 涛旧第屋十间，子孙不相容。
帝为之立室。
初，涛布衣家贫，谓妻韩氏曰： 忍饥寒，我后当作三公，但不知卿堪公夫人不耳！
及居荣贵，贞慎俭约，虽爵同千乘，而无嫔媵。
禄赐俸秩，散之亲故。
初，陈郡袁毅尝为鬲令，贪浊而赂遗公卿，以求虚誉，亦遗涛丝百斤，涛不欲异于时，受而藏于阁上。
后毅事露，槛车送廷尉，凡所以赂，皆见推检。
涛乃取丝付吏，积年尘埃，印封如初。
涛饮酒至八斗方醉，帝欲试之，乃以酒八斗饮涛，而密益其酒，涛极本量而止。
有五子：该、淳、允、谟、简。
该字伯伦，嗣父爵，仕至并州刺史、太子左率，赠长水校尉。
该子玮字彦祖，翊军校尉。
次子世回，吏部郎、散骑常侍。
淳字子玄，不仕，允字叔真，奉车都尉，并少尪病，形甚短小，而聪敏过人。
武帝闻而欲见之，涛不敢辞，以问于允。
允自以尪陋，不肯行。
涛以为胜己，乃表曰： 臣二子尪病，宜绝人事，不敢受诏。
谟字季长，明惠有才智，官至司空掾。
简字季伦。
性温雅，有父风，年二十余，涛不之知也。
简叹曰： 吾年几三十，而不为家公所知！
后与谯国嵇绍、氵市郡刘谟、弘农杨准齐名。
初为太子舍人，累迁太子庶子、黄门郎，出为青州刺史。
translation: 
He died in the fourth year of Taikang at the age of seventy-nine. Xia Shao gave him a noble coffin, a set of court robes, a set of clothes, 500,000 yuan in money, and a hundred bolts of cloth for funeral purposes. He was forced to serve as a Situ through a policy letter, and was given a purple ribbon with a honey seal to serve as Diao Chan.
When he was about to be buried, he was given 400,000 pieces of money and a hundred pieces of cloth.
Zuo Changshi Fan Di and others said to the emperor: Shantao's old house has ten rooms, and his descendants cannot live in it.
The emperor built houses for it.
At first, Shantao was a commoner and his family was poor. He said to his wife Han Di: "Bear the hunger and cold. I will be the third father-in-law in the future. I wonder if you can be the father-in-law's wife!"
After becoming prosperous and wealthy, he was loyal, prudent and frugal. Although his title was like that of a prince, he did not take concubines.
Salaries and rewards were distributed to relatives and friends.
At first, Yuan Yi, a native of Chen County, served as a minister. He corrupted and bribed officials to gain fame. He also gave Shan Tao a hundred catties of silk. Shan Tao did not want to be different from others at that time, so he accepted the silk and kept it in the attic.
Later, Yuan Yi's affairs were exposed and he was put into a carriage and handed over to Tingwei. Anyone who accepted a bribe would be held accountable.
Shan Tao took out the silk and gave it to the officials. After years of dust accumulation, the seal was not opened.
Shan Tao drank until he was drunk until he was drunk. The emperor wanted to test him, so he prepared eight measures of wine for him to drink, and secretly added more wine for him. Shan Tao drank to his limit and stopped drinking.
He has five sons: Shan Gai, Shan Chun, Shan Yun, Shan Mo, and Shan Jian.
Shan Gai, whose courtesy name was Bolun, inherited his father's title. He became governor of Bingzhou and crown prince Zuo Li, and was posthumously awarded the title of Captain of Changshui.
Shan Gai's son Shan Zhang was named Yanzu and served as a lieutenant in the Yi Army.
The second son returned to Shanshi and served as a official official and a regular attendant on Sanqi.
Shan Chun, whose courtesy name was Zixuan, was not an official, while Shan Yun, whose courtesy name was Shuzhen, was appointed as the captain of Fengche. Both of them had a hunchback and were short in stature, but they were extremely intelligent.
After Emperor Wu heard about it, he wanted to see them. Shan Tao did not dare to refuse, so he went to ask Shan Yun.
Shan Yun thought he was short with a hunchback and refused to go.
Shan Tao thought that they were better than him, so he wrote: My two sons are weak and sick, do not interact with others, and dare not accept orders.
Shan Mo, whose courtesy name is Ji Chang, is intelligent and talented, and his official position reaches the rank of Sikong Tu.
Shan Jian's courtesy name is Ji Lun.
He has a gentle temperament and a fatherly demeanor. He is in his twenties and Shantao doesn't understand him.
The mountain slip sighed and said: I am almost thirty years old and my father does not understand me!
Later, he became famous with Ji Shao from Qiao, Liu Mo from Peijun, and Yang Zhun from Hongnong.
At first, he was appointed as Prince Sheren, and was promoted several times to Prince Concubine, Huang Menlang, and the governor of Qingzhou.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
征拜侍中，顷之，转尚书。
历镇军将军、荆州刺史，领南蛮校尉，不行，复拜尚书。
光熙初，转吏部尚书。
永嘉初，出为雍州刺史、镇西将军。
征为尚书左仆射，领吏部。
简欲令朝臣各举所知，以广得才之路。
上疏曰： 臣以为自古兴替，实在官人；苟得其才，则无物不理。
《书》言： 知人则哲，惟帝难之。
唐、虞之盛，元恺登庸；周室之隆，济济多士。
秦、汉已来，风雅渐丧。
至于后汉，女君临朝，尊官大位，出于阿保，斯乱之始也。
是以郭泰、许劭之伦，明清议于草野；陈蕃、李固之徒，守忠节于朝廷。
然后君臣名节，古今遗典，可得而言。
自初平之元，讫于建安之末，三十年中，万姓流散，死亡略尽，斯乱之极也。
世祖武皇帝应天顺人，受禅于魏，泰始之初，躬亲万机，佐命之臣，咸皆率职。
时黄门侍郎王恂、庾纯始于太极东堂听政，评尚书奏事，多论刑狱，不论选举。
臣以为不先所难，而辨其所易。
陛下初临万国，人思尽诚，每于听政之日，命公卿大臣先议选举，各言所见后进俊才、乡邑尤异、才堪任用者，皆以名奏，主者随缺先叙。
是爵人于朝，与众共之之义也。
朝廷从之。
永嘉三年，出为征南将军、都督荆、湘、交、广四州诸军事、假节，镇襄阳。
于时四方寇乱，天下分崩，王威不振，朝野危惧。
简优游卒岁，唯酒是耽。
诸习氏，荆土豪族，有佳园池，简每出嬉游，多之池上，置酒辄醉，名之曰高阳池。
时有童兒歌曰： 山公出何许，往至高阳池。
日夕倒载归，酩酊无所知。
时时能骑马，倒著白接。
举鞭问葛疆：何如并州兒？ 疆家在并州，简爱将也。
寻加督宁、益军事。
translation: 
He was called into the court as a servant, and soon he was transferred to the position of minister.
He successively served as the general of the Zhenjun, the governor of Jingzhou, and the captain of the Southern Barbarians. Before taking up his post, he was also appointed as the minister.
In the early years of Guangxi's reign, he was transferred to the position of Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
In the early years of Yongjia, he served as the governor of Yongzhou and the general of Zhenxi.
He was called into the imperial court and served as Zuopushe, the minister of state, and also in charge of the official department.
The mountain slips want the ministers of the court to recommend people they know, so as to recruit talents.
Shangshu said: I believe that the rise and fall of ancient times lies in the employment of people; if you get the right talents, you can govern the country well.
"Shangshu" says that knowing people well and assigning them well will be difficult for the emperor.
The prosperity of Tang and Yu was due to good assistant ministers; the prosperity of Zhou Dynasty was due to the abundant talents.
Since the Qin and Han Dynasties, enlightenment has gradually declined.
In the Later Han Dynasty, the heroine came to the court, and the noble official position came from the lucky ministers on the left and right. This was the beginning of chaos.
Therefore, people like Guo Tai and Xu Shao spoke highly among the people; people like Chen Fan and Li Gu maintained loyalty and integrity in the court.
In this way, the names of monarchs and ministers, and the regulations left over from ancient times to the present, can be passed down.
From the beginning of the first millennium to the end of Jian'an. In the past thirty years, the people have been scattered and died, and the war has reached its extreme.
Emperor Shi Zuwu complied with destiny and accepted Wei's abdication. In the early years of Taishi, he managed everything, assisted ministers, and was able to perform his duties.
At that time, Wang Xun and Yu Chun, the Huangmen ministers, began to listen to politics in Taiji Shutang and comment on the ministers' reports. They usually discussed criminal law and not elections.
I think it's about figuring out the easy things without first figuring out the hard things.
Your Majesty has just begun to govern the country, and people are as loyal as possible. Whenever he is in charge of the government, he orders the ministers to discuss the election first, and each of them tells the talents of the younger generation, the outstanding people in the township, and the talented people who can be appointed.
This is a method of conferring official positions to people and deciding upon them together.
The court obeyed him.
In the third year of Yongjia's reign, he served as the general of the southern expedition and the governor of Jingxiang, Jiaozhou, Guangzhou, and other military affairs, and guarded Xiangyang during the holidays.
At that time, there was chaos in all directions, the world was divided, the monarch's power was weakened, and there was fear both inside and outside the court.
Shan Jian is leisurely and contented all year round and indulges in drinking.
The Xi family, a wealthy family in Jingdi, had a beautiful garden pool. Whenever Shan Jian went out for entertainment, most of the time he would go to the pool and get drunk, so he named the pool Gaoyang Pool.
At that time, a children's song said: Where did the monkey go? He went to Gaoyang Pool.
It was dark and I lay down and returned home, drunk and unaware.
Sometimes he can ride a horse and wear a white turban upside down.
He raised his whip and asked Ge Jiang: "How can he compare with Bingzhou?" Ge Jiang's family is in Bingzhou, and he is the general whom Shan Jian likes.
Soon he added Du Ning and benefited the military.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
时刘聪入寇，京师危逼。
简遣督护王万率师赴难，次于涅阳，为宛城贼王如所破，遂婴城自守。
及洛阳陷没，简又为贼严嶷所逼，乃迁于夏口。
招纳流亡，江、汉归附。
时华轶以江州作难，或劝简讨之。
简曰： 与彦夏旧友，为之惆怅。
简岂利人之机，以为功伐乎！
其笃厚如此。
时乐府伶人避难，多奔沔汉，宴会之日，僚佐或劝奏之。
简曰： 社稷倾覆，不能匡救，有晋之罪人也，何作乐之有！
因流涕慷慨，坐者咸愧焉。
年六十卒，追赠征南大将军、仪同三司。
子遐。
遐字彦林，为余姚令。
时江左初基，法禁宽弛，豪族多挟藏户口，以为私附。
遐绳以峻法，到县八旬，出口万余。
县人虞喜以藏户当弃市，遐欲绳喜。
诸豪强莫不切齿于遐，言于执事，以喜有高节，不宜屈辱。
又以遐辄造县舍，遂陷其罪。
遐与会稽内史何充笺： 乞留百日，穷翦捕逃，退而就罪，无恨也。
充申理，不能得。
竟坐免官。
后为东阳太守，为政严猛。
康帝诏曰： 东阳顷来竟囚，每多入重。
岂郡多罪人，将捶楚所求，莫能自固邪！
遐处之自若，郡境肃然。
卒于官。
史臣曰：若夫居官以洁其务，欲以启天下之方，事亲以终其身，将以劝天下之俗，非山公之具美，其孰能与于此者哉！
自东京丧乱，吏曹湮灭，西园有三公之钱，蒲陶有一州之任，贪饕方驾，寺署斯满。
时移三代，世历九王，拜谢私庭，此焉成俗。
若乃余风稍殄，理或可言。
委以铨综，则群情自抑；通乎鱼水，则专用生疑。
translation: 
At that time, Liu Cong invaded and the capital was threatened.
Shan Jian sent the governor Wang Wan to lead the army to rescue, and stationed troops in Nieyang. He was defeated by Wang Ru, the enemy of Wancheng, so he defended the city and defended himself.
After the fall of Luoyang, Shan Jian was forced by his enemy Yan Yi, so he moved to Xiakou.
Recruit the exiles, and the Jianghan people will join.
At that time, Hua Yi was causing trouble in Jiangzhou, and someone advised Shan Jian to attack him.
The mountain slip said: I am an old friend with Yanxia, ​​and I feel sad for him.
How can a mountain slip attack a friend and gain credit for himself?
Such is his honesty.
At that time, Yuefu artists took refuge, and most of them went to Mianmo. During the banquet, some of their subordinates persuaded them to play music.
The mountain slips say: The country is overthrown and cannot be corrected and rescued. It is a sinner of Jin. How can it be fun!
This caused tears and sighs, and everyone present felt ashamed.
When he died at the age of sixty, he was given a posthumous gift to General Zhengnan and the Third Division of Yitong.
Son Shanya.
Shanya's courtesy name was Yanlin, and he was appointed as the governor of Yuyao.
At that time, Jiang Zuo had just established his foundation, and the laws and prohibitions were loose. Most of the wealthy families hid their households and worked as private servants.
Shan Xia used strict laws to restrain them. After eighty days in the county, he found more than 10,000 hidden households.
Yu Xi, a county resident, should be sentenced for abandoning his body in the city. Shan Xia wants to bring Yu Xi to justice.
All the powerful people gnashed their teeth at Shan Xia and told the people in charge that Yu Xi had noble moral integrity and should not be humiliated.
And because Ye Xia built the county government office without authorization, he was framed on various charges.
Shan Ya wrote to He Chong, the internal historian of Kuaiji, saying: Please keep me for a hundred days to completely eliminate the fugitives, and then leave office to avenge the crime. There will be no regrets.
He Chong tried to explain his reasoning, but failed.
Shan Xia was finally dismissed from office.
Later he served as the governor of Dongyang and was strict in his administration.
Emperor Kangxi wrote in Shao Shu: Dongyun is full of prisoners these days, often guilty of serious crimes.
Could it be that the county has so many criminals that it cannot defend itself without punishment?
Shanya treated him calmly, and the county was under strict control.
Died in office.
Shi Chen said: If we say that we should be honest and honest, we want to open up the world's customs; if we can serve our relatives from beginning to end, we will encourage the world's customs. If the monkey does not achieve the best of both worlds, who can do it!
Since the war in Tokyo, the officials fled, Xiyuan had the money of the Three Dukes, Putao had the responsibility of a state, greed was rampant, and the government offices were overcrowded again.
Time passed to three generations, and after generations experienced nine kings, it became a custom to pay homage to officials and thank them in private courts.
If the remaining ethos is slightly extinguished, it may be worth talking about in principle.
If you have the power to conduct assessments and elections, public sentiment will be suppressed; if you maintain a good relationship with others, your authority will be doubted.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
将矫前失，归诸后正，惠绝臣名，恩驰天口，世称《山公启事》者，岂斯之谓欤！
若卢子家之前代，何足算也。
王戎，字濬冲，琅邪临沂人也。
祖雄，幽州刺史。
父浑，凉州刺史、贞陵亭侯。
戎幼而颖悟，神彩秀彻。
视日不眩，裴楷见而目之曰： 戎眼灿灿，如岩下电。
年六七岁，于宣武场观戏，猛兽在槛中虓吼震地，众皆奔走，戎独立不动，神色自若。
魏明帝于阁上见而奇之。
又尝与群兒嬉于道侧，见李树多实，等辈兢趣之，戎独不往。
或问其故，其曰： 树在道边而多子，必苦李也。
取之信然。
阮籍与浑为友。
戎年十五，随浑在郎舍。
戎少籍二十岁，而籍与之交。
籍每适浑，俄顷辄去，过视戎，良久然后出。
谓浑曰： 濬冲清赏，非卿伦也。共卿言，不如共阿戎谈。
及浑卒于凉州，故吏赙赠数百万，戎辞而不受，由是显名。
为人短小，任率不修威仪，善发谈端，赏其要会。
朝贤尝上巳礻契洛，或问王济曰： 昨游有何言谈？
济曰： 张华善说《史》《汉》；裴頠论前言往行，衮衮可听；王戎谈子房、季札之间，超然玄著。
其为识鉴者所赏如此。
戎尝与阮籍饮，时兗州刺史刘昶字公荣在坐，籍以酒少，酌不及昶，昶无恨色。
戎异之，他日问籍曰： 彼何如人也？
答曰： 胜公荣，不可不与饮；若减公荣，则不敢不共饮；惟公荣可不与饮。
戎每与籍为竹林之游，戎尝后至。
籍曰： 俗物已复来败人意。
戎笑曰： 卿辈意亦复易败耳！
钟会伐蜀，过与戎别，问计将安出。
戎曰： 道家有言， 为而不恃 ，非成功难，保之难也。
及会败，议者以为知言。
translation: 
The purpose of correcting previous mistakes is so that in the future, virtuous ministers will not be given honors, but those who are eloquent will be favored. Is this what the people in the world who praise "Monkey's Announcement" say?
What do the previous generations like Lu Zi's family mean?
Wang Rong, courtesy name Junchong, was born in Linyi, Langxie.
His grandfather, Wang Xiong, was the governor of Youye.
His father, Wang Hun, was the governor of Liangzhou and the Marquis of Zhenlingting.
Wang Rong is young, smart and full of energy.
Looking at the sun doesn't make your eyes tired. When Pei found out, he looked at him and said: There is light in Wang Rong's eyes, like the lightning under the cliff.
When I was six or seven years old, I was watching a play in the Xuanwu Field. The beast roared in the fence and shook the ground. Everyone was frightened and ran away. Wang Rong stood there alone, motionless and calm.
Emperor Wei Ming was amazed when he saw it.
Another time, a group of children were playing by the roadside and saw many fruits on the plum tree. Everyone was vying to pick them, but Wang Rong refused to go.
Some people have other reasons. Wang Rong said: If the tree on the roadside is full of fruits, it must be bitter plum.
It is indeed bitter after picking it.
Ruan and Hun are friends.
When Wang Rong was fifteen years old, he followed his father Wang Hun in Langshe.
Wang Rong was twenty years younger than Ruan Ji, and Ruan Ji befriended him.
Every time Ruan Ji went to Wang Hun's place, he would leave after a while to see Wang Rong, and it would take him a long time to come out.
Ruan Ji said to Wang Hun: Junchong is clean and noble, and cannot be compared with you. It is better to talk to A Rong than to talk to you.
When Wang Hun died in Liangzhou, officials from his old friendship offered him millions of dollars, but Wang Rong refused to accept them, and his reputation spread far and wide.
He is short in stature, straightforward and does not value dignity. He is good at asking questions and talking clearly, and he can get the essentials of talking clearly.
The virtuous ministers of the court once visited Luo for a banquet on the last day of Shangsi. Someone asked Wang Ji, "What did you say during your trip yesterday?"
Wang Ji said: Zhang Hua is good at talking about "Historical Records" and "Moshu"; Pei Dun talks about the past words and deeds, which is eloquent; Wang Rong talks about the ovary and Ji Zha, which is transcendent and mysterious.
This is how Wang Rong was appreciated by people of insight.
Wang Rong once drank with Yi Xun. At that time, the tomb of Tong Cong, the governor of the imperial court, was present. Ruan Ji did not pour wine for Liu Chang because he had little wine. Liu Chang did not show regret.
Wang Rong felt strange and asked Ruan Ji one day: "What kind of person is he?"
He replied: Those who are better than Gong Rong cannot but drink with him; if they are not as good as Gong Rong, they dare not but drink with him; only Gong Rong can not drink with him.
Wang Wei often went on a tour of the bamboo forest with Ken Tong, and Wang Rong arrived later.
The doctor's signature said: The common people have come to spoil my mood again.
Wang Rong smiled and said: Your mood is spoiled too easily!
Zhong Hui was attacking Shu and said goodbye to Wang Rong when passing by. What was his plan?
Wang Rong said: There is a saying in Taoism: If you do something without taking credit, it is not difficult to make merit, but it is difficult to keep it.
When the Zhonghui failed, those who discussed it thought it was an insightful statement.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
袭父爵，辟相国掾，历吏部黄门郎、散骑常侍、河东太守、荆州刺史，坐遣吏修园宅，应免官，诏以赎论。
迁豫州刺史，加建威将军，受诏伐吴。
戎遣参军罗尚、刘乔领前锋，进攻武昌，吴将杨雍、孙述、江夏太守刘朗各率众诣戎降。
戎督大军临江，吴牙门将孟泰以蕲春、邾二县降。
吴平，进爵安丰侯，增邑六千户，赐绢六千匹。
戎渡江，绥慰新附，宣扬威惠。
吴光禄勋石伟方直，不容皓朝，称疾归家。
戎嘉其清节，表荐之。
诏拜伟为议郎，以二千石禄终其身。
荆土悦服。
征为侍中。
南郡太守刘肇赂戎筒中细布五十端，为司隶所纠，以知而未纳，故得不坐，然议者尤之。
帝谓朝臣曰： 戎之为行，岂怀私苟得，正当不欲为异耳！
帝虽以是言释之，然为清慎者所鄙，由是损名。
戎在职虽无殊能，而庶绩修理。
后迁光禄勋、吏部尚书，以母忧去职。
性至孝，不拘礼制，饮酒食肉，或观弈棋，而容貌毁悴，杖然后起。
裴頠往吊之，谓人曰： 若使一恸能伤人，濬冲不免灭性之讥也。
时和峤亦居父丧，以礼法自持，量米而食，哀毁不逾于戎。
帝谓刘毅曰： 和峤毁顿过礼，使人忧之。
毅曰： 峤虽寝苫食粥，乃生孝耳。
至于王戎，所谓死孝，陛下当先忧之。
戎先有吐疾，居丧增甚。
帝遣医疗之，并赐药物，又断宾客。
杨骏执政，拜太子太傅。
骏诛之后，东安公繇专断刑赏，威震外内。
戎诫繇曰： 大事之后，宜深远之。
繇不从，果得罪。
转中书令，加光禄大夫，给恩信五十人。
迁尚书左仆射，领吏部。
戎始为甲午制，凡选举皆先治百姓，然后授用。
司隶傅咸奏戎，曰： 《书》称 三载考绩，三考黜陟幽明 。
今内外群官，居职未期而戎奏还，既未定其优劣，且送故迎新，相望道路，巧诈由生，伤农害政。
戎不仰依尧舜典谟，而驱动浮华，亏败风俗，非徒无益，乃有大损。
宜免戎官，以敦风俗。
戎与贾、郭通亲，竟得不坐。
寻转司徒。
以王政将圮，苟媚取容，属愍怀太子之废，竟无一言匡谏。
裴頠，戎之婿也，頠诛，戎坐免官。
齐王冏起义，孙秀禄戎于城内，赵王伦子欲取戎为军司。
博士王繇曰： 濬冲谲诈多端，安肯为少年用？
translation: 
Inheriting his father's title, he was requisitioned as Prime Minister, and served successively as Huang Menlang of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, Changshi of Sanqi, Governor of Hedong, and Governor of Jingzhou. He committed the crime of sending people to repair the garden and house, so he should be removed from the official position. Shaoshu ordered that he be punished as atonement.
He was appointed governor of Yuzhou, added as general Jianwei, and accepted the imperial edict to attack Wu.
Wang Rong sent Luo Shang and Liu Qiao to join the army as vanguards to attack Wuchang. Wu generals Yang Yong and Sun Shu, and Jiangxia governor Liu Lang each led their troops to Wang Rong and surrendered.
Wang Rong commanded the army to Linjiang, and Wu Ya gate general Meng Tai led Qichun and Zhu counties to surrender.
Wu was pacified, and he was promoted to the title of Marquis of Anfeng County. He was given an additional 6,000 households and 6,000 bolts of silk.
Wang Rong crossed the river to appease the newly surrendered people, showing kindness and power at the same time.
Xingguang Luxun was both great and upright, and could not be tolerated by the wall, so he went home because of illness.
Wang Rong commended him for his integrity and recommended him to the imperial court.
The imperial edict appointed Huwei as Yilang, giving him a lifelong salary of two thousand dan.
The people of Jing land were happy and surrendered.
He summoned Wang Rong as his attendant.
Liu Zhao, the governor of Nanjun, bribed Wang Rong with fifty pieces of fine cloth in a tube. He was impeached by Sili. Since he knew about it but did not accept it, he did not accuse him. However, the people who discussed it accused him.
The emperor said to the courtiers: Could it be that Wang Rong's behavior was selfish and greedy? It was just that he was unwilling to do something different from others!
Although the emperor explained it in this way, he was despised by honest people, and Wang Rong's reputation was damaged.
Although Wang Rong did not have any special talents in his tenure, he was able to govern well.
Later he was promoted to Guang Luxun and Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, but resigned due to his mother's death.
Born in Lu, he was extremely filial and did not adhere to etiquette. He would drink wine, eat meat, or watch people playing chess. However, he looked haggard and could only stand up with a wooden stick.
Pei Dun went to express condolences and said to people: If grief hurts the body, Junchong will inevitably be criticized for mourning and destroying one's nature.
At that time, He Wei was also in mourning for his father. He restrained himself with etiquette and ate a limited amount of food, but his grief did not exceed that of Wang Rong.
The emperor said to Liu Yi: He Wei's sorrow exceeds the etiquette, which makes people worry about him.
Liu Yi said: Although He Wei sleeps on a straw mat and eats porridge, he is just a filial piety.
As for Wang Rong, that is the so-called death filial piety. Your Majesty should worry about Wang Rong first.
Wang Rong had vomiting before, and his vomiting became more severe when he was in mourning.
The emperor sent a doctor to treat his illness, gave him medicine, and stopped visiting guests.
Yang Jun came to power and appointed Wang Rong as the crown prince and tutor.
After Yang Jun was executed, Ma Yao from Shu'an Company decided to reward and punish him, which shocked the court inside and outside.
Wang Rong warned Sima Yao: After a major event, you should make long-term considerations.
Sima Yao disobeyed and was convicted.
Wang Rong was transferred to the post of Zhongshu Ling, and was given the title of Dr. Guanglu, and fifty close followers.
He was promoted to Minister Zuopushe and was also in charge of the Ministry of Personnel.
When Wang Rong began to implement the Sino-Japanese War of 1898-1994, officials were elected to govern the people first and then appointed.
Si Li Fu Xian wrote a memorial to accuse Wang Rong, saying: "Shang Shu" says that political performance will be inspected in three years, and the promotion of the wise and the foolish will be determined by three inspections.
Nowadays, when officials inside and outside the imperial court have been in office for less than a year, Wang Rong invites them to return to the imperial court. He does not determine their merits and demerits, but also sends old officials to welcome new ones.
Wang Rong did not follow the laws of Yao and Shun, but promoted glitz and immorality, which not only had no benefit, but also caused great harm.
Wang Rong should be removed from his official position in order to uphold customs.
Wang Rong was related by marriage to Jia and Guo, and was not convicted.
Soon he was transferred to Situ.
Because the rule was about to collapse, he kept flattering to please the emperor. He was worried that the prince would be deposed, but never said a word to correct him.
Pei Zhen was Wang Rong's son-in-law. Pei Dun was killed and Wang Rong was dismissed from office.
King Sima Tong of Qi rebelled, and Sun Xiu imprisoned Wang Rong in the city. King Sima Lun of Zhao's son wanted to be the military commander of Wang Rong.
Dr. Wang Yao said: Junchong is so cunning and deceitful, how can he be willing to serve young people?


Chunk 9: 
original: 
乃止。
惠帝反宫，以戎为尚书令。
既而河间王颙遣使就说成都王颖，将诛齐王冏。
檄书至，冏谓戎曰： 孙秀作逆，天子幽逼。
孤纠合义兵，扫除元恶，臣子之节，信著神明。
二王听谗，造构大难，当赖忠谋，以和不协。
卿其善为我筹之。
戎曰： 公首举义众，匡定大业，开辟以来，未始有也。
然论功报尝，不及有劳，朝野失望，人怀贰志。
今二王带甲百万，其锋不可当，若以王就第，不失故爵。
委权崇让，此求安之计也。
冏谋臣葛怒曰： 汉魏以来，王公就第，宁有得保妻子乎！
议者可斩。
于是百官震悚，戎伪药发堕厕，得不及祸。
戎以晋室方乱，慕蘧伯玉之为人，与时舒卷，无蹇谔之节。
自经典选，未尝进寒素，退虚名，但与时浮沈，户调门选而已。
寻拜司徒，虽位总鼎司，而委事僚采。
间乘小马，从便门而出游，见者不知其三公也。
故吏多至大官，道路相遇辄避之。
性好兴利，广收八方园田水碓，周遍天下。
积实聚钱，不知纪极，每自执牙筹，昼夜算计，恆若不足。
而又俭啬，不自奉养，天下人谓之膏肓之疾。
女适裴頠，贷钱数万，久而未还。
女后归宁，戎色不悦，女遽还直，然后乃欢。
从子将婚，戎遣其一单衣，婚讫而更责取。
家有好李，常出货之，恐人得种，恆钻其核。
以此获讥于世。
其后从帝北伐，王师败绩于荡阴，戎复诣鄴，随帝还洛阳。
车驾之西迁也，戎出奔于郏。
在危难之间，亲接锋刃，谈笑自若，未尝有惧容。
时召亲宾，欢娱永日。
永兴二年，薨于郏县，时年七十二，谥曰元。
translation: 
I gave up the idea.
Emperor Hui returned to the palace. Appoint Wang Rong as Shangshu Ling.
After that, Sima Yi, the king of Hejian, sent people to Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, to lobby for an attack on Sima Gang, the king of Qi.
When the crusade documents arrived, Sima Wang said to Wang Rong: Sun Xiu made a rebellion and the emperor was placed under house arrest.
I gathered righteous soldiers and eliminated the evildoers, and the integrity of my subjects was revealed to the gods.
The two kings listened to the slander and caused great trouble. I should rely on my loyal ministers and good counsel to reconcile the conflict.
Please plan this carefully for me.
Wang Rong said: "The Duke is the first to uphold righteousness and correct the great cause of stability. This has never happened since the founding of the country."
However, rewards based on merit were not extended to those who had merit, and people inside and outside the court were disappointed and had second thoughts.
Now the two kings lead millions of troops and are unstoppable. If they return home as kings, they will not lose their previous titles.
Handing over power and advocating humility is a way to achieve stability.
Ge Qi, Sima Tong's adviser, got angry and said: Since the Han and Wei dynasties, when the princes returned home, how could any of them be able to keep their wives and children?
Anyone who makes such comments can be killed.
So all the officials were frightened. Wang Rong pretended to be drugged and fell into the toilet, so he was not killed.
Because the Jin Dynasty was in the middle of a war, Wang Rong envied Zang Boyu's character. He followed the situation and had no integrity.
Since he was in charge of the election, he has never appointed ordinary people with humble family backgrounds, nor demoted officials with false reputations. Instead, he has followed the current situation and promoted and promoted officials.
Soon he was appointed Situ. Although his official position was extremely high, he left political affairs to his colleagues.
Sometimes he rides a pony and goes out through the public gate. People who see him don't know that he is San Gong.
Many of his former subordinates became high-ranking officials, and they avoided Wang Rong when they met him on the road.
He likes to make money by nature, and he collects gardens and water-powered mills from all over the world.
He accumulates money and material and is greedy, often holding chips and calculating day and night, but never feels that it is enough.
He is also stingy and does not care about his own health. People all over the world say that he is seriously ill and blind.
His daughter married Pei Dun and borrowed tens of thousands of dollars from Wang Rong, but has not paid it back for a long time.
When his daughter came home later, Wang Rong looked unhappy. His daughter hurriedly paid back the money, and then Wang Rong smiled.
When his nephew was about to get married, Wang Rong gave him a piece of clothing and asked for it back after the wedding was over.
I have good plums at home and often sell them. I am afraid that others will get the seeds and break the cores.
Therefore he is laughed at in the world.
Later, he followed the emperor in the Northern Expedition. The royal army was defeated in Dangyin. Wang Rong went to Ye again and returned to Luoyang with the emperor.
When the emperor moved westward, Wang Rong rushed to Jia.
In times of crisis, he fought in person, talked and laughed freely, and never looked afraid.
He often invites relatives, friends and guests to have fun all day long.
In the second year of Yongxing, he died in Jiaxian County at the age of seventy-two. Mi was named Yuan.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
戎有人伦鉴识，尝目山涛如璞玉浑金，人皆钦其宝，莫知名其器；王衍神姿高彻，如瑶林琼树，自然是风尘表物。
谓裴頠拙于用长，荀勖工于用短，陈道宁纟畟纟畟如束长竿。
族弟敦有高名，戎恶之。
敦每候戎，辄托疾不见。
敦后果为逆乱。
其鉴尝先见如此。
尝经黄公酒垆下过，顾谓后车客曰： 吾昔与嵇叔夜、阮嗣宗酣暢于此，竹林之游亦预其末。
自嵇、阮云亡，吾便为时之所羁绁。
今日视之虽近，邈若山河！
初，孙秀为琅邪郡吏，求品于乡议。
戎从弟衍将不许，戎劝品之。
及秀得志，朝士有宿怨者皆被诛，而戎、衍获济焉。
子万，有美名。
少而大肥，戎令食穅，而肥愈甚。
年十九卒。
有庶子兴，戎所不齿。
以从弟阳平太守愔子为嗣。
衍字夷甫，神情明秀，风姿详雅。
总角尝造山涛，涛嗟叹良久，既去，目而送之曰： 何物老妪，生宁馨兒！
然误天下苍生者，未必非此人也。
父乂，为平北将军，常有公事，使行人列上，不时报。
衍年十四，时在京师，造仆射羊祜，申陈事状，辞甚清辩。
祜名德贵重，而衍幼年无屈下之色，众咸异之。
杨骏欲以女妻焉，衍耻之，遂阳狂自免。
武帝闻其名，问戎曰： 夷甫当世谁比？
戎曰： 未见其比，当从古人中求之。
泰始八年，诏举奇才可以安边者，衍初好论从横之术，故尚书卢钦举为辽东太守。
不就，于是口不论世事，唯雅咏玄虚而已。
尝因宴集，为族人所怒，举累掷其面。
衍初无言，引王导共载而去。
然心不能平，在车中揽镜自照，谓导曰： 尔看吾目光乃在牛背上矣。
父卒于北平，送故甚厚，为亲识之所借贷，因以舍之。
数年之间，家资罄尽，出就洛城西田园而居焉。后为太子舍人，还尚书郎。
translation: 
Wang Rong was good at identifying talents. He once regarded Shan Tao as uncarved jade and uncut gold. People respected him for his preciousness, but they didn't know how to describe his talent. Wang Yan's charm and appearance were elegant and pure, like a beautiful Yao Lin tree, so he was naturally a figure outside the world.
It is said that Pei Fan was not good at utilizing his strengths, while Xun Xu was good at making up for his shortcomings, and Chen Daoning was as tall and straight as a long pole.
His younger brother Wang Dun was famous, but Wang Rong hated him.
Every time Wang Dun waited to see Wang Rong, Wang Rong would excuse himself because he was ill.
Wang Dun later turned out to be rebellious and rebellious.
Wang Rong's discernment and foresight are like this.
I once passed Huang Gong's wine stove and turned around and said to the guests in the car behind me: I used to have a drink here with Ji Shuye and Ruan Sizong, and I also participated in the bamboo forest tour.
Ever since Ji and Ruan passed away, I have been bound by current events.
Today I see all this so close to my eyes, but it seems so far away!
At the beginning, Sun Xiu was appointed as an official in Langye County and asked the township officials to make comments.
Wang Rong's cousin Wang Yan planned not to agree, but Wang Rong persuaded him to criticize Sun Xiu.
After Sun Xiu succeeded, all the officials in the court who had a grudge against him were killed, but Wang Rong and Wang Yan benefited from Sun Xiu.
His son Wang Wan has a good reputation.
He was young and obese. Wang Rong made him eat chaff and he became even more obese.
Died at the age of nineteen.
There was a concubine named Wang Xing, and Wang Rong looked down upon him.
Let the son of his cousin Wang Qing, the prefect of Yangping, succeed him.
Wang Yan, whose courtesy name is Yifu, has a clear and beautiful expression, tranquility and elegance.
When I was a child, I visited Shan Tao. Shan Tao sighed for a long time. Wang Yan left. Shan Tao looked at him and said: What an old woman, she gave birth to such a son!
The person who delays the people of the world may not be this person.
His father, Wang Yi, was a general in Qianbei Province. He often had official matters and sent people to list them and report them from time to time.
Wang Yan was fourteen years old. He was in the capital at that time. He went to the servant She Yangkun to explain the matter. His words were very clear and eloquent.
Yang Hu had a reputation for being very virtuous, but although Wang Yan was young, he did not appear to be aggrieved by others. Everyone was surprised.
Yang Jun wanted to marry his daughter to him, but Wang Yan was ashamed of this and pretended to be crazy to avoid the matter.
Emperor Wu heard about his reputation and asked Wang Rong: Who can Yifu be compared with in this world?
Wang Rong said: If you don't see anyone who can compare with him, you should look for it from the ancients.
In the eighth year of Taishi, Xia Shao asked him to recommend people with talents who could stabilize the border. Wang Jie initially liked to talk about Zongheng, so Lu Lian, the minister, recommended him as the governor of Liaosai.
I didn't go to my post, so I didn't talk about worldly affairs. I just wrote poems and talked about it.
Once, because of a banquet, the tribesmen were angry and threw a wooden plate into his face.
Wang Yan didn't say anything at first and asked Wang Zun to get in the car and leave.
However, I felt dissatisfied. I picked up the mirror in the car and looked at myself, and said to Director Wang: You are looking at me on the back of the cow.
His father died in Peiping, and he gave many gifts at his funeral. His relatives and friends borrowed money from him and gave it to them.
Within a few years, his family property was exhausted and he went to live in the countryside west of Luocheng. Later, he was appointed Prince Sheren and promoted to Shangshu Lang.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
出补元城令，终日清谈，而县务亦理。
入为中庶子、黄门侍郎。
魏正始中，何晏、王弼等祖述《老》《庄》，立论以为： 天地万物皆以无为本。
无也者，开物成务，无往不存者也。
阴阳恃以化生，万物恃以成形，贤者恃以成德，不肖恃以免身。
故无之为用，无爵而贵矣。
衍甚重之。
惟裴頠以为非，著论以讥之，而衍处之自若。
衍既有盛才美貌，明悟若神，常自比子贡。
兼声名藉甚，倾动当世。妙善玄言，唯谈《老》《庄》为事。
每捉玉柄麈尾，与手同色。
义理有所不安，随即改更，世号 口中雌黄。
朝野翕然，谓之 一世龙门 矣。
累居显职，后进之士，莫不景慕放效。
选举登朝，皆以为称首。
矜高浮诞，遂成风俗焉。
衍尝丧幼子，山简吊之。
衍悲不自胜，简曰： 孩抱中物，何至于此！
衍曰： 圣人忘情，最下不及于情。
然则情之所钟，正在我辈。
简服其言，更为之恸。
衍妻郭氏，贾后之亲，藉中宫之势，刚愎贪戾，聚敛无厌，好干预人事，衍患之而不能禁。
时有乡人幽州刺史李阳，京师大侠也，郭氏素惮也。
衍谓郭曰： 非但我言卿不可，李阳亦谓不可。
郭氏为之小损。
衍疾郭之贪鄙，故口未尝言钱。
郭欲试之，令婢以钱绕床，使不得行。
衍晨起见钱，谓婢曰： 举阿堵物却！
其措意如此。
后历北军中候、中领军、尚书令。
女为愍怀太子妃，太子为贾后所诬，衍惧祸，自表离婚。
贾后既废，有司奏衍，曰： 衍与司徒梁王肜书，写呈皇太子手与妃及衍书，陈见诬见状。
肜等伏读，辞旨恳恻。
衍备位大臣，应以议责也。
translation: 
He left the capital to serve as the magistrate of Yuancheng and talked all day long, but the government affairs in the county were also handled.
He was summoned to serve as the concubine of the middle school and the minister of Huangmen.
During the Zhengshi period of Wei, He Yan, Wang Bi and others began to discuss "Lao" and "Zhuang", arguing that: Everything in the world is based on nothingness.
The so-called nothingness is to understand the principles of all things and succeed, and it exists everywhere.
Yin and Yang rely on it to change and produce, all things are formed by it, virtuous people rely on it to achieve virtue, and unworthy people rely on it to avoid difficulties.
Therefore, the role of nothing is valuable without the title.
Wang Yan attaches great importance to Lu Yi's remarks.
Pei Ti thought it was wrong and wrote a theoretical criticism, but Wang Yan treated the criticism as if nothing happened.
Wang Qian was not only talented and beautiful, but also as smart as a god. He often compared himself with Wang Gong.
Coupled with his extremely high reputation, he was extremely influential at the time. He is good at talking about mysteries, and takes "Lao" and "Zhuang" as topics.
He often holds a jade handle to brush his hair, which is the same color as his hand.
If there is anything inappropriate in the moral principles, they should be changed immediately. This is known in the world as "orpiment in the mouth".
People inside and outside the imperial court unanimously said that he was the "I Longmen".
Those who hold prominent official positions successively and later become officials are all admired and imitated.
He is the leader in every election and government.
Arrogance, vanity and eccentricity have become a custom.
Wang Yanzeng's youngest son died and he went to express his condolences.
Yuqian couldn't control his sadness, and Shan Ge said: Why is the baby in my arms so sad!
Wang Yan said: The sage forgets his feelings, and the lowest is inferior to his feelings.
And what I love most is people like me.
Shan Jian admired his words and felt even more sad.
Wang Yan's wife, Guo, was a relative of Empress Jia. Due to her influence in the inner palace, she was headstrong, greedy, greedy and unsatisfied, and liked to interfere in human affairs. Wang Yan was worried but could not stop her.
At that time, there was Li Yang, the governor of Youzhou, a fellow countryman, who was a hero in the capital. The Guo family had always been afraid of him.
Wang Yan said to Guo: Not only did I say you were wrong, but Li Yang also said it was wrong.
Guo restrained himself slightly for this.
Wang Yan hated Guo's greed and despicability, so he never mentioned money.
Guo wanted to test him and asked her maid to wrap money around the bed so that Wang Yan could not move.
When Wang Yan got up in the morning and saw the money, he said to his maid: "Take these things and go down!"
That's what he meant.
Later, he successively served as the Northern Army's Lieutenant Commander, Lieutenant Commander, and Shangshu Ling.
His daughter was a concubine who was jealous of the prince. The prince was framed after being bribed. Wang Yan was afraid of causing disaster, so he petitioned for a divorce.
After Empress Jia was deposed, relevant officials impeached Wang Yan, saying: Wang Yan wrote a letter to Sima Shu, King of Situ Liang, and forwarded a personal letter from the crown prince to his concubine and Wang Yan, stating the situation of being framed.
Sima Xu and others read the letter, and the content was sincere and sincere.
Wang Yan holds the position of minister and should be self-disciplined according to principles and principles.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
太子被诬得罪，衍不能守死善道，即求离婚。
得太子手书，隐蔽不出。
志在苟免，无忠蹇之操。
宜加显责，以厉臣节。
可禁锢终身。
从之。衍素轻赵王伦之为人。
及伦篡位，衍阳狂斫婢以自免。
及伦诛，拜河南尹，转尚书，又为中书令。
时齐王乂有匡复之功，而专权自恣，公卿皆为之拜，衍独长揖焉。
以病去官。
成都王颖以衍为中军师，累迁尚书仆射，领吏部，后拜尚书令、司空、司徒。
衍虽居宰辅之重，不以经国为念，而思自全之计。
说东海王越曰： 中国已乱，当赖方伯，宜得文武兼资以任之。
乃以弟澄为荆州，族弟敦为青州。
因谓澄、敦曰： 荆州有江、汉之固，青州有负海之险，卿二人在外，而吾留此，足以为三窟矣。
识者鄙之。
及石勒、王弥寇京师，以衍都督征讨诸军事、持节、假黄钺以距之。
衍使前将军曹武、左卫将军王景等击贼，退之，获其辎重。
迁太尉，尚书令如故。
封武陵侯，辞封不受。
时洛阳危逼，多欲迁都以避其难，而衍独卖车牛以安众心。
越之讨苟晞也，衍以太尉为太傅军司。
及越薨，众共推为元帅。
衍以贼寇锋起，惧不敢当。
辞曰： 吾少无宦情，随牒推移，遂至于此。
今日之事，安可以非才处之。
俄而举军为石勒所破，勒呼王公，与之相见，问衍以晋故。
衍为陈祸败之由，云计不在己。
勒甚悦之，与语移日。
衍自说少不豫事，欲求自免，因劝勒称尊号。
勒怒曰： 君名盖四海，身居重任，少壮登朝，至于白首，何得言不豫世事邪！
破坏天下，正是君罪。
translation: 
The prince was framed and convicted. Wang Yan could not stick to his good ways to death, but asked for a divorce.
I got the prince's personal letter, but I hid it and didn't show it.
There is no loyalty and moral integrity in just taking things easy.
Severe punishments should be imposed to encourage moral integrity among ministers.
Can be imprisoned for life. obey.
Wang Yan has always despised Wang Sima Lun's character.
After Sima Lun usurped the throne, Wang Yan pretended to be crazy and killed his slaves to avoid disaster.
After Sima Lun was executed, Wang Yangguan paid homage to Henan Yin, and was transferred to Shangshu and then Zhongshu Ling.
At that time, Sima Tong, the king of Qi, had contributed to the restoration of the royal family, so he took charge of his own affairs. All the ministers paid homage to him, but Wang Yan only bowed to him.
Resigned from official position due to illness.
Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, appointed Wang Yan as the military advisor of the Central Military Commission. He was promoted many times to serve as a minister, servant, and also in charge of the staff. Later, he became a minister, Sikong, and Situ.
Although Wang Yan occupies an important position among the three princes, he does not regard governing the country as a major matter, but thinks about self-preservation.
He advised Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, to say: The Central Plains is already in chaos. We should rely on local governors and select people with both civil and military skills as local governors.
He appointed his younger brother Wang Cheng as the governor of Jingzhou, and his younger brother Wang Dun as the governor of Qingzhou.
He said to Wang Cheng and Wang Dun: Jingzhou has the dangers of Jianghan and Qingzhou has the dangers of the sea. You two are outside and I stay here, which is enough to be regarded as a cunning rabbit's three burrows.
People of knowledge despised Wang Yan.
Shi Le and Wang Mi invaded the capital, and appointed Wang Yan as the commander-in-chief to conquer the military, hold the knot, and fake yellow locks to meet the enemy.
Wang Yan sent former general Xuan Wu, left guard general Gong Ji and others to meet the enemy, beat them back and seize their baggage.
After being promoted to Taiwei, the position of Shangshu Ling remains the same.
He was granted the title Marquis of Wuling, but refused to accept the title.
At that time, Luoyang was in crisis, and most people wanted to move the capital to seek refuge, but Wang Yan was the only one who sold his chariots and oxen to calm everyone's minds.
When Sima Yue was crusading against Gou Xi, Wang Yan served as the Taifu Army Chief as a Taiwei.
When Sima Yue died, everyone elected Wang Yan as marshal.
Wang Yan was too frightened to take responsibility because bandits were rising everywhere.
He declined and said: When I was young, I had no desire to be an official. With the selection and replacement of officials, I reached the official position I have today.
How can we use people without talents to fill today's affairs?
Soon the whole army was defeated by Shi Le. Shi Le called the prince to meet him and asked Wang Yan about the old events of Jin.
Wang Yan explained the reason for his failure and said that the plan was not his.
Shi Le liked Wang Yan very much and talked with him all day.
Wang Yan claimed that he would not participate in state affairs and wanted to avoid disaster, so he persuaded Shi Le to proclaim himself emperor.
Shi Le said angrily: "You are well-known far and wide and hold important responsibilities. When you were young, you became an official in the court until your hair turned white. How can you say that you did not participate in state affairs?"
Destroying the world is your crime.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
使左右扶出。
谓其党孔苌曰： 吾行天下多矣，未尝见如此人，当可活不？
苌曰： 彼晋之三公，必不为我尽力，又何足贵乎！
勒曰： 要不可加以锋刃也。
使人夜排墙填杀之。
衍将死，顾而言曰： 呜呼！
吾曹虽不如古人，向若不祖尚浮虚，戮力以匡天下，犹可不至今日。
时年五十六。
衍俊秀有令望，希心玄远，未尝语利。
王敦过江，常称之曰： 夷甫处众中，如珠玉在瓦石间。
顾恺之作画赞，亦称衍岩岩清峙，壁立千仞。
其为人所尚如此。
子玄，字眉子，少慕简旷，亦有俊才，与卫玠齐名。
荀籓用为陈留太守，屯尉氏。
玄素名家，有豪气，荒弊之时，人情不附，将赴祖逖，为盗所害焉。
澄字平子。
生而警悟，虽未能言，见人举动，便识其意。
衍妻郭性贪鄙，欲令婢路上担粪。
澄年十四，谏郭以为不可。
郭大怒，谓澄曰： 昔夫人临终，以小郎属新妇，不以新妇属小郎。
因捉其衣裾，将杖之。
澄争得脱，逾窗而走。
衍有重名于世，时人许以人伦之鉴。
尤重澄及王敦、庾敳，尝为天下人士目曰： 阿平第一，子嵩第二，处仲第三。
澄尝谓衍曰： 兄形似道，而神锋太俊。
衍曰： 诚不如卿落落穆穆然也。
澄由是显名。
有经澄所题目者，衍不复有言，辄云 已经平子矣 。
少历显位，累迁成都王颖从事中郎。
颖嬖竖孟玖谮杀陆机兄弟，天下切齿。
澄发玖私奸，劝颖杀玖，颖乃诛之，士庶莫不称善。
及颖败，东海王越请为司空长史。
以迎大驾勋，封南乡侯。
迁建威将军、雍州刺史，不之职。
translation: 
Ask the people on the left and right to help him out.
Shi Le said to his comrade Kong Chang: I have traveled all over the world and have never seen such a person. Should I spare his life?
Kong Chang said: He is the third prince of Jin. He will definitely not do his best for us, so what can he do for us?
Shi Le said: But you cannot kill him with a knife.
Someone was sent to knock down the wall at night and crush him to death.
When Wang Yan was about to die, he turned around and said: Alas!
Although I am not as good as the ancients, if I had not advocated vanity and devoted myself to saving the world, I might not be where I am today.
He was fifty-six years old.
Wang Yan is handsome and has a good reputation. He pursues mystery and far-reaching and has never talked about profit.
When Wang Dun crossed the river, he often praised him and said: Yifu is among the people, just like pearls and jade among the tiles and stones.
Gu Kaizhi praised the painting and also praised Wang Yan for being tall and tall, standing on the cliff of ten thousand feet.
That's how he was admired.
His son Wang Xuan, also known as Meizi, pursued broad-mindedness when he was young. He also had outstanding talents and had the same reputation as Wei Jie.
Xun Fan appointed him as the prefect of Chenliu and stationed him at Weishi.
Wang Xuan was a famous and heroic man. During the period of chaos, he did not rely on favors. When he was about to defect to Zu Ti, he was killed by bandits.
Wang Cheng's courtesy name is Pingzi.
He was alert and intelligent when he was young. Although he could not speak, he knew what others meant when he saw their actions.
Wang Yan's wife Guo was greedy by nature and wanted her maid to carry dung on the road.
Wang Cheng was fourteen years old at the time and advised Guo not to do that.
Mrs. Guo was furious and said to Wang Cheng: In the past, before my wife died, she entrusted you to me instead of entrusting me to you.
So he grabbed him by the skirt of his clothes and wanted to beat him with a stick.
Wang Cheng broke free and jumped out of the window to escape.
Wang Yan was famous in the world. People at that time compared him to a mirror to judge people's character.
Wang Yan especially valued Wang Cheng, Wang Dun, and Yu Ao. He once commented for the world: A Ping is the first, Zi Song is the second, and Chu Zhong is the third.
Wang Cheng once said to Wang Yan: My brother looks like a Taoist, but his appearance is superhuman.
Wang Yan said: It is true that I am not as free and gentle as you.
Wang Cheng became famous as a result.
For those who had been criticized by Wang Cheng, Wang Yan stopped expressing his opinions and said that they had passed through Pingzi.
He successively held important official positions at a young age, and was gradually promoted to the post of Zhonglang of King Sima Ying of Chengdu.
Sima Ying's favored minister Meng Jiu falsely accused and killed the Lu Ji brothers, and everyone in the world was angry.
Wang Cheng exposed Meng Jiu's secret and persuaded Sima Ying to kill Meng Jiu. Sima Ying then killed Meng Jiu, and the officials and the people applauded.
When Sima Ying failed, Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, asked him to serve as Sikong Changshi.
Because of his meritorious service in welcoming the emperor, he was granted the title of Marquis of Nanxiang.
He was transferred to General Jianwei and Governor of Yongzhou, but did not take office.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
时王敦、谢鲲、庾敳、阮修皆为衍所亲善，号为四友，而亦与澄狎，又有光逸、胡毋辅之等亦豫焉。
酣宴纵诞，穷欢极娱。
惠帝末，衍白越以澄为荆州刺史、持节、都督，领南蛮校尉，敦为青州。
衍因问以方略，敦曰： 当临事制变，不可豫论。
澄辞义锋出，算略无方，一坐嗟服。
澄将之镇，送者倾朝。
澄见树上鹊巢，便脱衣上树，探而弄之，神气萧然，傍若无人。
刘琨谓澄曰： 卿形虽散朗，而内实动侠，以此处世，难得其死。
澄默然不答。
澄既至镇，日夜纵酒，不亲庶事，虽寇戎急务，亦不以在怀。
擢顺阳人郭舒于寒悴之中，以为别驾，委以州府。
时京师危逼，澄率众军，将赴国难，而飘风折其节柱。
会王如寇襄阳，澄前锋至宜城，遣使诣山简，为如党严嶷所获。
嶷伪使人从襄阳来而问之曰： 襄阳拔未？
答云： 昨旦破城，已获山简。
乃阴缓澄使，令得亡去。
澄闻襄阳陷，以为信然，散众而还。
既而耻之，托粮运不赡，委罪长史蒋俊而斩之，竟不能进。
巴蜀流人散在荆、湘者，与土人忿争，遂杀县令，屯聚乐乡。
澄使成都内史王机讨之。
贼请降，澄伪许之，既而袭之于宠洲，以其妻子为赏，沈八千余人于江中。
于是益、梁流人四五万家一时俱反，推杜弢为主，南破零桂，东掠武昌，败王机于巴陵。
澄亦无忧惧之意，但与机日夜纵酒，投壶博戏，数十局俱起。
杀富人李才，取其家资以赐郭舒。
南平太守应詹骤谏，不纳。
于是上下离心，内外怨叛。
澄望实虽损，犹傲然自得。
后出军击杜弢，次于作塘。
山简参军王冲叛于豫州，自称荆州刺史。
澄惧，使杜蕤守江陵。
translation: 
At that time, Wang Dun, Xie Wan, Yu Gu, and Ruan Xiu were all friends of Wang Yan and were known as the Four Friends. They also played with Wang Cheng, and Guang Yi, Hu Wufuzhi and others also participated.
Drinking and having fun.
In the last years of Emperor Hui's reign, Wang Yan told Sima Yue to appoint Wang Cheng as the governor, Chijie, and governor of Jingzhou, as well as the Nanman school captain, and Wang Dun was appointed the governor of Qingzhou.
Wang Yan then asked Wang Dun about how to govern the country. Wang Dun said: Countermeasures should be formulated on a case-by-case basis and should not be determined in advance.
Wang Cheng's words were sharp and his strategies were so surprising that everyone present was impressed.
Wang Cheng was about to take up his post, and people from all over the court saw him off.
When Wang Cheng saw the magpie's nest on the tree, he took off his clothes and went up to the tree to play with the young birds, with a leisurely expression as if no one else was around.
Liu Kun said to Wang Cheng: Although you look free and easy, in your heart you are righteous and want to make a difference. If you live like this, it is rare for you to die in peace.
Wang Cheng remained silent.
After Wang Cheng arrived at his post, he indulged in drinking day and night and did not take care of government affairs. Even important military matters were not taken to heart.
He promoted Guo Shu, a poor Shunyang native, and appointed him as a charioteer, entrusting him with state affairs.
At that time, the capital was in crisis, and Wang Cheng led his troops to fight against the national calamity, but a gust of wind broke the pillars.
Just as Wang Ru was attacking Xiangyang, Wang Cheng's vanguard arrived in Yicheng and sent people to the mountain slips, but was captured by Wang Ru's associate Yan Yi.
Yan Ni pretended to send someone from Xiangyang to ask him: Has Xiangyang been captured?
He replied: Yesterday morning we captured the city and captured the mountain slips.
So he deliberately relaxed the supervision of Wang Cheng's envoy to allow him to escape.
When Wang Cheng heard that Xiangyang had fallen, he thought it was true, dismissed his troops and returned.
Later, they were ashamed of not being able to rescue Xiangyang, and on the grounds that the food delivery was not timely, they put the crime on Chang Shi Jiang Jun and killed him. After all, they could not move forward.
The people from Bashu who were exiled in Jingxiang had grudges and fights with the local people, killed the county magistrate, and gathered in Lexiang.
Wang Cheng sent Wang Ji, the internal historian of Chengdu, to attack them.
The thieves asked for surrender, but Wang Cheng pretended to agree. Then he attacked them in Chongzhou, rewarded them with their wives and children, and sank more than 8,000 people into the river.
So the 40,000 to 50,000 families who were in exile in Yiliang rebelled for a while, elected Du Shi as their leader, conquered Linggui in the south, raided Wuchang in the east, and defeated Wang Ji in Baling.
Wang Cheng was not worried yet, and he and Wang Ji drank and played pot throwing games day and night, and gave up together after dozens of games.
He killed the rich man Li Cai and gave his property to Guo Shu.
The prefect of Nanping responded to Zhan's repeated advice but refused to accept it.
So the top and bottom are eccentric, complaining and rebelling internally and externally.
Wang Cheng's prestige was damaged, but he was still arrogant and complacent.
Later, troops were sent to attack Du Mu and stationed in the pond.
Wang Chong, who joined the army on the mountain slips, rebelled in Yuzhou and claimed to be the governor of Yuzhou.
Wang Cheng was frightened and sent Du Rui to guard Jiangling.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
澄迁于孱陵，寻奔沓中。
郭舒谏曰： 使君临州，虽无异政，未失众心。
今西收华容向义之兵，足以擒此小丑，奈何自弃。
澄不能从。
初，澄命武陵诸郡同讨杜弢，天门太守扈瑰次于益阳。
武陵内史武察为其郡夷所害，瑰以孤军引还。
澄怒，以杜曾代瑰。
夷袁遂，瑰故吏也，托为瑰报仇，遂举兵逐曾，自称平晋将军。
澄使司马毌丘邈讨之，为遂所败。
会元帝征澄为军谘祭酒，于是赴召。
时王敦为江州，镇豫章，澄过诣敦。
澄夙有盛名，出于敦右，士庶莫不倾慕之。
兼勇力绝人，素为敦所惮，澄犹以旧意侮敦。
敦益忿怒，请澄入宿，阴欲杀之。
而澄左右有二十绝人，持铁马鞭为卫，澄手尝捉玉枕以自防，故敦未之得发。
后敦赐澄左右酒，皆醉，借玉枕观之。
因下床而谓澄曰： 何与杜弢通信？
澄曰： 事自可验。
敦欲入内，澄手引敦衣，至于绝带。
乃登于梁，因骂敦曰： 行事如此，殃将及焉。
敦令力士路戎搤杀之，时年四十四，载尸还其家。
刘琨闻澄之死，叹曰： 澄自取之。
及敦平，澄故吏佐著作郎桓稚上表理澄，请加赠谥。
诏复澄本官，谥曰宪。
长子詹，早卒。
次子徽，右军司马。
郭舒，字稚行。
幼请其母从师，岁余便归，粗识大义。
乡人少府范晷、宗人武陵太守郭景，咸称舒当为后来之秀，终成国器。
始为领军校尉，坐擅放司马彪，系廷尉，世多义之。
刺史夏侯含辟为西曹，转主簿。
含坐事，舒自系理含，事得释。
刺史宗岱命为治中，丧母去职。
刘弘牧荆州，引为治中。
弘卒，舒率将士推弘子璠为主，讨逆贼郭劢。灭之，保全一州。
王澄闻其名，引为别驾。
澄终日酣饮，不以众务在意，舒常切谏之。
及天下大乱，又劝澄修德养威，保完州境。
澄以为乱自京都起，非复一州所能匡御，虽不能从，然重其忠亮。
荆土士人宗庾廞尝因酒忤澄，澄怒，叱左右棒廞。
舒厉色谓左右曰： 使君过醉，汝辈何敢妄动！
澄恚曰： 别驾狂邪，诳言我醉！
因遣掐其鼻，灸其眉头，舒跪而受之。
澄意少释，而廞遂得免。
澄之奔败也，以舒领南郡。
澄又欲将舒东下，舒曰： 舒为万里纪纲，不能匡正，令使君奔亡，不忍渡江。
乃留屯沌口，采稆湖泽以自给。
乡人盗食舒牛，事觉，来谢。
舒曰： 卿饥，所以食牛耳，余肉可共啖之。
世以此服其弘量。
舒少与杜曾厚，曾尝召之，不往，曾衔之。
至是，澄又转舒为顺阳太守，曾密遣兵袭舒，遁逃得免。
王敦召为参军，转从事中郎。
襄阳都督周访卒，敦遣舒监襄阳军。
甘卓至，乃还。朝廷征舒为右丞，敦留不遣。
敦谋为逆，舒谏不从，使守武昌。
荆州别驾宗澹忌舒才能，数谮之于王暠。
暠疑舒与甘卓同谋，密以白敦，敦不受。
高官督护缪坦尝请武昌城西地为营，太守乐凯言于敦曰： 百姓久买此地，种菜自赡，不宜夺之。
敦大怒曰： 王处仲不来江湖，当有武昌地不，而人云是我地邪！
凯惧，不敢言。
舒曰： 公听舒一言。
敦曰： 平子以卿病狂，故掐鼻灸眉头，旧疢复发邪！
舒曰： 古之狂也直，周昌、汲黯、硃云不狂也。
昔尧立诽谤之木，舜置敢谏之鼓，然后事无枉纵。
translation: 
Wang Cheng moved to Xiaoling and soon ran to Tazhong.
Guo Shu advised and said: Although you have no special political achievements in Zhoubao, you have not lost the support of the people.
If receiving Huarong's uprising army to the west is enough to catch the clown, why give up on yourself?
Wang Cheng didn't listen.
At the beginning, Wang Cheng ordered several counties in Wuling to attack Du Mu together, and Hu Quan, the prefect of Tianmen, was in Yiyang.
Wucha, the commander of Wuling Neishi, was killed by the barbarians in the county, and Hu Quan led his lone army to retreat.
Wang Cheng was angry and asked Du Zeng to replace Hu Quan.
Yuan Sui, a foreigner, was Hu Quan's former official. In the name of Hu Quan's revenge, he raised troops to drive out Du Zeng and called himself General Ping Jin.
Wang Cheng sent Sima Mu Qiu Miao to attack him, but Yuan Sui defeated him.
Then Emperor Yuan summoned Wang Cheng to serve as a military counselor and drinker, so he took up the post.
At that time, Wang Dun was working in Jiangzhou and guarding Yuzhang. Wang Cheng went to visit Wang Dun.
Wang Cheng has always been famous, and his reputation is higher than that of Wang Dun. All officials and people admire him.
Coupled with his superhuman courage, Wang Dun was always afraid of him, and Wang Cheng still insulted Wang Dun as before.
Wang Dun became even more angry and asked Wang Cheng to stay overnight, secretly wanting to kill him.
There were twenty people guarding Wang Cheng with iron riding whips. Wang Cheng often held a jade pillow to defend himself, so Wang Dun was unable to take action.
Later, Wang Dun rewarded Wang Cheng's men with wine, and they all became drunk, so they borrowed jade pillows to watch.
He got out of bed and said to Wang Cheng: Why are you communicating with Du Sou?
Wang Cheng said: Things can be clarified.
When Wang Dun was about to go in, Wang Cheng grabbed Wang Dun's clothes and broke his belt.
Wang Cheng climbed up to the rafter and scolded Wang Dun, saying: If you do this, disaster will come.
Wang Dun ordered the warrior Lu Rong to capture and kill Wang Cheng, who was forty-four years old at the time, and took the body home in a cart.
When Liu Kun heard about Wang Cheng's death, he sighed and said: Wang Cheng asked for it.
After Wang Dun was pacified, Wang Cheng's old official assistant, Lang Huanzhi, came to discuss Wang Cheng and asked for the title of Mi.
The edict restored Wang Cheng's original official position and gave him the title Xian.
The eldest son Wang Zhan died early.
The second son Wang Hui was appointed Sima of the Right Army.
Guo Shu's courtesy name is Zhixing.
When he was young, he asked his mother to study as a teacher. He came back more than a year later and learned some knowledge.
Fellow Shaofu Fan Zhou and fellow tribesman Gen Xuanyi, the prefect of Xuanyi, both praised Zhengqian for becoming a hero and a pillar of the country when he grew up.
When he first served as the leading military captain, he committed the crime of letting Sima Biao go without authorization and handed him over to Tingwei for punishment. Most people thought Guo Shu was a righteous man.
The governor Xiahou Han appointed him as Xicao and transferred him to the position of chief secretary.
Xiahouhan committed a crime, so Guo Shu tied himself up to defend Xiahouhan, and the matter was explained.
The governor Zongdai appointed him as Zhizhong, but he resigned due to the death of his mother.
Liu Hong was in charge of Jingzhou and called him to rule the country.
When Liu Chui died, he led the soldiers to elect Xi Tun, the son of Xi District, as their leader, and attacked the traitor Guo Kan, annihilating him and preserving the state.
Wang Cheng knew the reputation of Zheng Crab and called him to be his guest.
Wang Cheng drank heavily all day long and did not take government affairs to heart. Guo Shuchang earnestly advised him.
When the world was in chaos, he advised Wang Cheng to strengthen his self-cultivation, establish prestige, and protect the state.
Wang Cheng believed that the rebellion was caused by Kyoto and could not be rectified and resisted by a single state. Although he could not obey Guo Shu, he valued his loyalty.
Zongchang, a local scholar in Jingzhou, once offended Wang Huan for drinking. Wang Cheng became angry and ordered Sai Ao to be beaten with sticks.
Qingdeng said to his left and right officials with a stern expression: "The governor drank too much, how dare you people to act rashly!"
Wang Cheng got angry and said, "Don't be too crazy. You're talking nonsense. I'm drunk!"
So people pinched his nose and burned his brow, and Guo Que knelt down and endured it.
Wang Cheng's anger gradually subsided, and Sai Ao was finally saved from disaster.
When Wang Cheng failed and fled, he appointed Guo Shu to also take charge of Nanjun.
Wang Cheng also wanted Guo Shu to withdraw eastward. Guo Shu said: "I have ruled thousands of miles away, but I cannot correct the troubled times and make the governor flee. I can't bear to cross the river."
So he stayed behind in Chaosi and collected stalks in the lake to support himself.
A country man ate a cow that was made of plastic. The incident was discovered, and the cow thief came to apologize.
Sushu said: You are hungry, so you eat the cow, and you can eat the remaining meat together.
The world therefore admired Guo Shu's magnanimity.
Guo Shu had a close friendship with Du Zeng when he was young. Du Zeng once recruited Guo Shu, but when Guo Shu refused to go, Du Zeng resented him.
When he arrived in Japan, Wang Cheng appointed Guo Shu as the prefect of Shunyang. Du Zeng secretly sent troops to attack Guo Shu, but Guo Shu escaped and avoided disaster.
Wang Dun called him to join the army and was transferred to Zhonglang.
Zhou Fang, the governor of Xiangyang, died, and Wang Dun sent Guo Shu to supervise the Xiangyang army.
Gan Zhuo arrived and then left. The court conscripted Guo Shu as the right prime minister, but Wang Dun kept him and refused to let him go.
Wang Dun rebelled, but Guo Shu refused to listen and sent Guo Shu to guard Wuchang.
Jingzhou Biejia Zongdan was jealous of Guo Shu's talent and spoke ill of Guo Shu in front of Wang Yu many times.
Wang Yu suspected that Guo Shu was conspiring with Gan Zhuo and secretly told Wang Dun, but Wang Dun didn't believe it.
Miao Tan, a high-ranking official and supervisor, once requested land to the west of Wuchang City to set up a camp. Prefect Le Kai said to Wang Dun: The people have bought this land for a long time to grow vegetables to support themselves, so it is not appropriate to take it away.
Wang Dun was furious and said: If I, Wang Chuzhong, had not come to Jianghu, would there be Wuchang? People say that Wuchang is my land!
Lucky was afraid and dared not speak.
Guo Shu said: Please listen to my words.
Wang Dun said: Pingzi pinched your nose and burned your brow because you were crazy. You must have relapsed!
Guo Shu said: In ancient times, madness was uprightness. Zhou Chang, Ji An, and Zhu Yun were not mad.
In the past, Yao set up the tree of slander, and Shun set up the drum of remonstrance, so that things would not go astray in the future.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
公为胜尧、舜邪？
乃逆折舒，使不得言。何与古人相远！
敦曰： 卿欲何言？
舒曰： 缪坦可谓小人，疑误视听，夺人私地，以强陵弱。
晏子称：君曰其可，臣献其否，以成其可。
是以舒等不敢不言。
敦即使还地，众咸壮之。
敦重舒公亮，给赐转丰，数诣其家。
表为梁州刺史。
病卒。
乐广，字彦辅，南阳淯阳人也。
父方，参魏征西将军夏侯玄军事。
广时年八岁，玄常见广在路，因呼与语，还谓方曰： 向见广神姿郎彻，当为名士。
卿家虽贫，可令专学，必能兴卿门户也。
方早卒。广孤贫，侨居山阳，寒素为业，人无知者。
性冲约，有远识，寡嗜欲，与物无竞。
尤善谈论，每以约言析理，以厌人之心，其所不知，默如也。
裴楷尝引广共谈，自夕申旦，雅相钦挹，叹曰： 我所不如也。
王戎为荆州刺史，闻广为夏侯玄所尝，乃举为秀才。
楷又荐广于贾充，遂辟太尉掾，转太子舍人。
尚书令卫瓘，朝之耆旧，逮与魏正始中诸名士谈论，见广而奇之，曰： 自昔诸贤既没，常恐微言将绝，而今乃复闻斯言于君矣。
命诸子造焉，曰： 此人之水镜，见之莹然，若披云雾而睹青天也。
王衍自言： 与人语甚简至，及见广，便觉己之烦。
其为识者所叹美如此。
出补元城令，迁中书侍郎，转太子中庶子，累迁侍中、河南尹。
广善清言而不长于笔，将让尹，请潘岳为表。
岳曰： 当得君意。
广乃作二百句语，述己之志。
岳因取次比，便成名笔。
时人咸云： 若广不假岳之笔，岳不取广之旨，无以成斯美也。
translation: 
Do your actions surpass those of Yao and Shun?
How can you stop me and prevent me from speaking? Why is it so different from the ancients!
Wang Dun said: What do you want to say?
Said: It can be said that he is a villain, disturbing the public, taking away other people's land, and bullying the weak.
Yanzi said: The king said it was possible, the minister said no, and then it became feasible.
So I dare not not say it.
The king's tomb then sent people to return the land, and people praised him.
Wang Dun valued Guo Shu's uprightness and rewarded him generously. He visited Guo Shu's home several times.
The above table appointed him as the governor of Liangzhou.
Death from illness.
Yueguang's courtesy name was Yanfu, a native of Qingyang, Nanyang.
His father, Le Fang, took part in the military affairs of Xia Guixuan, the general who conquered the West.
Le Guang was eight years old at the time. Xia Houxuan once saw Le Guang on the road, so he called him over to talk to him. When he came back, he said to Le Fang: If you see Le Guang looking cheerful and clear, you will become a famous person.
Although your family is poor, if you can let him concentrate on his studies, your family will definitely be revitalized.
Le Fang died early, and Le Guang lost his father and became poor. He lived in Shanyang, worked hard and studied hard, and no one knew about him.
Indifferent temperament, far-sighted, little desire, and aloof from the world.
He is especially good at talking. He often uses simple words to explain the truth and convince people. He stays silent about things he doesn't understand.
Pei Kai once invited Le Guang to talk together. From night to dawn, they admired each other and were humble, and sighed: I am not as good as him.
Wang Rong was appointed governor of Jingzhou. Hearing that Le Guang was praised by Xia Houxuan, he recommended him as a scholar.
Pei Kai recommended Yue Guang to Mai Chong, so he was conscripted into the post of Taiwei and transferred to the position of Prince Sheren.
Shangshu Ling Wei Cui, an elder in the court, had a chat with some celebrities during the reign of Wei Zhengshi, and was amazed to see Yue Guang. He said: Since the death of sages in the past, we have often worried that profound speeches will become extinct, and today I heard such speeches from you.
He ordered his son to come to ask for advice, saying: "His judgment is clear and clear. When you see him, your mind will be bright and your eyes will be bright, just like seeing the blue sky after clearing the clouds and mist."
Wang Yan himself said: I talk very briefly to others, but when I met Le Guang, I realized that I talked too much.
This is how Le Guang is praised by knowledgeable people.
After leaving the court, he was appointed as the magistrate of Yuancheng, promoted to the title of minister of Zhongshu, transferred to the title of prince's concubine, and gradually promoted to minister of ministers and Henan Yin.
Yue Guang is good at talking but not good at writing. He will resign from Henan Yin and ask Pan Yue to make a statement.
Pan Yue said: You should tell me what you mean.
Le Guang said 200 sentences about his aspirations.
Pan Yue then wrote famous articles according to the sequence.
People at that time said: If Le Guang did not rely on Pan Yue's pen, and Pan Yue did not follow Le Guang's wishes, he would not be able to accomplish anything good.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
尝有亲客，久阔不复来，广问其故，答曰： 前在坐，蒙赐酒，方欲饮，见杯中有蛇，意甚恶之，既饮而疾。
于时河南听事壁上有角，漆画作蛇，广意杯中蛇即角影也。
复置酒于前处，谓客曰： 酒中复有所见不？
答曰： 所见如初。
广乃告其所以，客豁然意解，沈疴顿愈。
卫玠总角时，尝问广梦，广云是想。
玠曰： 神形所不接而梦，岂是想邪！
广曰： 因也。
玠思之经月不得，遂以成疾。
广闻故，命驾为剖析之，玠病即愈。
广叹曰： 此贤胸中当必无膏肓之疾！
广所在为政，无当时功誉，然每去职，遗爱为人所思。
凡所论人，必先称其所长，则所短不言而自见矣。
人有过，先尽弘恕，然后善恶自彰矣。
广与王衍俱宅心事外，名重于时。
故天下言风流者，谓王、乐为称首焉。
少与弘农杨准相善。
准之二子曰乔曰髦，皆知名于世。
准使先诣裴頠，頠性弘方，爱乔有高韵。
谓准曰： 乔当及卿，髦少减也。
又使诣广，广性清淳，爱髦有神检。
谓准曰： 乔自及卿，然髦亦清出。
准笑曰： 我二兒之优劣，乃裴、乐之优劣也。
论者以为乔虽有高韵，而神检不足，乐为得之矣。
是时王澄、胡毋辅之等，皆亦任放为达，或至裸体者。
广闻而笑曰： 名教内自有乐地，何必乃尔！
其居才爱物，动有理中，皆此类也。
值世道多虞，朝章紊乱，清己中立，任诚保素而已。
时人莫有见其际焉。
先是河南官舍多妖怪，前尹多不敢处正寝，广居之不疑。
尝外户自闭，左右皆惊，广独自若。
顾见墙有孔，使人掘墙，得狸而杀之，其怪亦绝。
translation: 
There once was a guest who had not come for a long time. Le Guang asked the reason and replied: When I was here before, I was given wine, and I was about to drink it. When he saw a snake in the cup, he was disgusted and became ill after drinking it.
At that time, there were horns on the walls of the Henan government office, and the lacquer paintings looked like snakes. Le Guang thought that the snake in the cup was the shadow of the horns.
Then he placed the wine in the previous place and said to the guests: Is there anything else you have seen in the wine?
The answer is: Same as what I saw before.
Le Guang then told the guest the reason. The guest understood immediately and his old problem was cured immediately.
When Wei Jie was underage, he once asked Yue Guang what a dream was, and Yue Guang said it was just a dream.
Wei Jie said: When the spirit breaks away from the body and dreams, is it just fantasy?
Le Guang said: This is the reason.
Wei Bin thought about it for a month and still didn't understand, so he got sick.
When Le Guang heard about the cause of the disease, he drove to Wei Jie for an analysis, and Wei Jie's illness was cured.
Beast Eyes praised and said: There must be no disease in this wise man’s chest that is difficult to cure!
Le Guang did not receive credit and praise in the places where he was engaged in politics. However, every time he left, the love he left behind was missed by people.
Whenever you comment on others, you must first praise their strengths, and it will be clear without mentioning their shortcomings.
When people make mistakes, try to forgive them first, and then you will understand what is good and what is evil.
Yue Guangyu and Wang Yan both put their minds aside from worldly affairs and were very famous at that time.
Therefore, when people in the world talk about romantic figures, they think Wang Ya and Yue Guang should be the leaders.
When he was young, he was friendly with Hongnong Yang Zhun.
Yang Zhun's two sons are named Yang Qiao and Yang Mao, and they are well-known in the world.
Yang Zhun asked his son to visit Pei Yuan first. Pei Dun had a generous and upright character and loved Yang Qiao with his grace.
Say to Yang Zhun: Yang Qiao will catch up with you, Yang Mao will be a little behind.
They were also asked to visit Yue Guang, who had a pure and honest personality and loved Yang Zong's charm.
Say to Yang Zhun: Yang Qiao can catch up with you, but Yang Mao can also be quiet and detached.
Yang Zhun smiled and said: The strengths and weaknesses of my two sons are exactly the strengths and weaknesses of Pei and Le.
Critics believe that although Yang Qiao has a superhuman demeanor, he lacks charm and Yue Guang is just a good expositor.
At that time, Wang Cheng, Hu Wufuzhi and others also regarded laissez-faire as understanding, and some even went naked.
After hearing this, Le Guang smiled and said: There is something joyful about famous religions, why bother like this!
He cherishes talents and behaves in a manner consistent with etiquette and law, all in this type of situation.
At a time when the world is unstable and the court's laws are in chaos, I insist on being neutral and honest.
At that time, it was difficult for people to know his heart.
Before that, there were many monsters in the official residences of Henan. Most of the former Henan Yins did not dare to live in the main house, but Le Guang was not afraid to live there.
Once the door outside closed by itself, everyone on the left and right were frightened, but only Le Guang remained calm.
When he saw a hole in the wall, he sent people to dig out the wall, catch the fox and kill it, and the strange things disappeared.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
愍怀太子之废也，诏故臣不得辞送，众官不胜愤叹，皆冒禁拜辞。
司隶校尉满奋敕河南中部收缚拜者送狱，广即便解遣。
众人代广危惧。
孙琰说贾谧曰： 前以太子罪恶，有斯废黜，其臣不惧严诏，冒罪而送。
今若系之，是彰太子之善，不如释去。
谧然其言，广故得不坐。
迁吏部尚书左仆射，后东安王繇当为仆射，转广为右仆射，领吏部，代王戎为尚书令，始戎荐广，而终践其位，时人美之。
成都王颖，广之婿也，及与长沙王乂遘难，而广既处朝望，群小谗谤之。
乂以问广，广神色不变，徐答曰： 广岂以五男易一女。
乂犹以为疑，广竟以忧卒。
荀籓闻广之不免也，为之流涕。
三子：凯、肇、谟。
凯字弘绪，大司马齐王掾，参骠骑军事。
肇字弘茂，太傅东海王掾。
洛阳陷，兄弟相携南渡江。
谟字弘范，征虏将军、吴郡内史。
史臣曰：汉相清静，见机于旷务；周史清虚，不嫌于尸禄。
岂台揆之任，有异于常班者欤！
濬冲善发谈端，夷甫仰希方外，登槐庭之显列，顾漆圆而高视。
彼既凭虚，朝章已乱。
戎则取容于世，旁委货财；衍则自保其身，宁论宗稷？
及三方构乱，六戎藉手，犬羊之侣，锋镝如云。
夷甫区区焉，佞彼凶渠，以求容贷，颓墙之陨，犹有礼也。
平子肆情傲物，对镜难堪，终失厥生，自贻伊败。
且夫衣服表容，珪璋范德，声移宫羽，采照山华，布武有章，立言成训。
澄之箕踞，不已甚矣。
若乃解衵登枝，裸形扪鹊，以此为达，谓之高致，轻薄是效，风流讵及。
道睽将圣，事乖跰指，操情独往，自夭其生者焉。
昔晏婴哭庄公之尸，乐令解愍怀之客，岂闻伯夷之风欤，懦夫能立志者也。
赞曰：晋家求士，乃构仙台，陵云切汉，山叟知材。
濬冲居鼎，谈优务劣。
translation: 
When Prince Minhuai was deposed, the old officials were ordered not to say goodbye. The officials were very angry and even braved the ban to say goodbye.
Sili Colonel Man Fen ordered the people who were seeing them off in central Henan to be captured and sent to prison, but Yue Guang let them go.
Everyone was worried about Le Guang.
Sun Yan advised Jia Mi: "In the past, the prince was deposed because of his sins. His ministers were not afraid of severe prohibitions and took the risk to see him off."
If arresting them would only promote the prince's interests, it would be better to let them go.
Mai Mi thought he was right, and Yue Guang was not convicted.
He was promoted to Zuopushe, the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel. Later, Sima Yao, King of Shu'an, was supposed to be the Pushe. He was appointed as Youpushe to Yue Guang, leading the Ministry of Personnel, and acting as the Shangshuling on behalf of Wang Rong. At first Wang Rong recommended Yue Guang, but eventually he took his place. People at the time praised Yue Guang.
Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, was Le Guang's son-in-law. When Sima Yi, the king of Changsha, launched an attack, Le Guang was already in an important position in the court, and some villains slandered him.
Sima Yi asked Le Guang about this matter. Le Guang's expression remained unchanged and he slowly replied: "How can I exchange five men for one woman?"
Sima Yi still had doubts, and Le Guang eventually died of worry.
When Xun Fan heard that Yue Guang had not been able to escape the disaster, he shed tears for him.
He has three sons: Le Kai, Le Zhao and Le Chen.
Le Kai, whose courtesy name was Hongxu, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the King of Qi, and participated in the Hussar Army.
Yue Zhao, whose courtesy name was Hongmao, was appointed as Taifu Shuhaiwangju.
Luoyang fell, and the brothers crossed the Yangtze River south together.
Lemo's courtesy name was Hongfan, and he served as General Zhenglu and Internal Secretary of Wu County.
Shi Chen said: The Han prime minister was quiet and governed by doing nothing; the Zhou prime minister was pure and empty, receiving salary and not doing political affairs.
Is the appointment of the three prime ministers different from that of ordinary officials?
Junchong is good at talking, Yifu advocates Taoism, ascends to the prominent position of Sangong, learns from Laozi and Zhuangzhuang and is lofty.
They believe in nothingness and chaos.
Wang Rong pleases others to seek shelter and accumulate wealth; Wang Yan protects himself, how can he still take care of the country?
There was a war between the three parties, foreign tribes intervened, Qiang and Di people and horses, and weapons like clouds.
A villain who flatters and flatters evil people in order to seek tolerance. Pushing a wall and crushing him to death is considered a courtesy.
Pingzi indulged in arrogance and could not bear the good reputation, so he finally lost his life and committed suicide.
Clothes decorate the appearance, Guizhang standardizes morals, the voice and rhyme conform to rituals and music, the spirit reflects the beauty of the mountains, the martial arts are justified, and the words are established as training.
Wang Cheng's arrogance is too much.
If you take off your clothes and climb trees, catch magpies naked, and take this as a way of understanding and think it is an elegant taste, then frivolous people will follow suit and violate morals.
His moral corruption was so extreme that he did strange things one after another. He went alone and ruined his life.
In the past, Yan Ying lay down and cried bitterly for Duke Zhuang, but now he is ordering to release his mournful followers. It must be because of Boyi's influence. Weak people can also be determined.
It is said in praise: The Jin Dynasty visited wise men and hermits, built a fairy platform, so high that it reached the sky, and the mountain emperor knew the talents.
Wang Jun is in a high position and likes to talk rather than be pragmatic.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
夷甫两顾，退求三穴。
神乱当年，忠乖曩列。
平子陵侮，多于用拙。
乐令披云，高天澄彻。
translation: 
The head is a rat at both ends, and the cunning rabbit has three burrows.
Disturbing the current world and being disloyal to others.
King Mang insults the wise and often uses villains.
The blue sky clears away the clouds and mist, and the blue sky is clear.


