Summary uses chunk [1, 6, 12]

Chunk 1: 
original: 
婿随妻还家，妻家无尊卑，旦旦拜之，而不拜其父母。
为妻家仆役，一二年间，妻家乃厚遣送女，居处财物一皆为办。
其俗妻后母，报寡嫂，死则归其故夫。
计谋从用妇人，唯斗战之事乃自决之。
父子男女，相对踞蹲。
以髡头为轻便。
妇人至嫁时乃养发，分为髻，著句决，饰以金碧，犹中国有步摇。
妇人能刺韦作文绣，织氀曷毛。
男子能作弓矢鞍勒，锻金铁为兵器。
其土地宜及东墙。
东墙似蓬草，实如子，至十月而熟。
见鸟兽孕乳，以别四节。
俗贵兵死，敛尸以棺，有哭泣之哀，至葬则歌舞相送。
translation: 
When a son-in-law follows his wife back to his parents' home, he pays homage to the people in his wife's family every day, regardless of his superiority or inferiority, but does not pay homage to his wife's parents.
After working as a servant in his wife's house for a year or two, his wife's house gave them many things to send their daughter away, and all daily necessities and belongings were prepared for them.
The custom of the Wuhuan people is to marry their stepmother and have an affair with their widowed sister-in-law. However, after their death, the stepmother and sister-in-law are buried together with their original husbands.
In terms of strategy, they listen to women's opinions, and only make their own decisions when fighting.
Father and son, men and women sit face to face.
They think it is easy to shave off their hair.
Women only grow their hair when they get married, and it is separated and coiled on both sides of the head. The headdress is made of Jujue, which is decorated with gold and jade, just like the Gebuyao in the Central Plains.
Women could embroider leather and weave woolen fabrics.
Men can make bows and arrows, saddles and harnesses, and smelt copper and iron to make weapons.
The boring land is suitable for planting Biaozi and Aunt.
The bunches are like fluffy grass, and the fruits are like rice. They will mature in ten months.
When the Wuhuan people saw the flying black beasts being pregnant and giving birth, they used this to distinguish the four seasons.
Wuhuan's custom is to respect death in battle. They use coffins to collect corpses and have mourning and crying rituals, but when they are buried, they send them off with singing and dancing.

summary:
summary line 0: The Wuhuan originated from the Donghu tribe. After the Xiongnu leader Maodun defeated Donghu in the early Han Dynasty, the survivors took refuge in Wuhuan Mountain and adopted the name as their tribal title. They were skilled horsemen and archers, primarily hunting birds and animals, and practiced nomadic pastoralism without fixed residences. Their felt tents faced east, and they subsisted on meat, cheese, and clothing made from animal hairs. They valued youth over the elderly, had fierce tempers, and would kill fathers and brothers in anger but never mothers, as mothers had their own tribes for revenge. Leaders were chosen based on bravery and strength, not heredity, with towns forming tribes under small leaders. They used carved wood as talismans for commands, lacked writing, and had no fixed surnames, adopting the names of strong leaders instead. Marriage involved abducting women, cohabiting for months, then paying betrothal gifts in livestock. Sons-in-law served their wives' families for one to two years before receiving dowries. They practiced levirate marriage, burying stepmothers and sisters-in-law with their original husbands. Women’s opinions were heeded in strategy, but men decided in battle. They shaved their heads, with women growing hair only after marriage, and wore headdresses decorated with gold and jade. Women embroidered leather and wove wool; men made bows, arrows, saddles, and smelted copper and iron for weapons. They cultivated crops like Biaozi and Aunt, which matured in ten months, and used the pregnancy of black beasts to distinguish seasons. They honored death in battle, used coffins, and conducted mourning rituals with singing and dancing, burning a fat dog with a colored rope along with the deceased’s possessions to guide the soul to Chishan, akin to the Central Plains’ Mount Tai. They sacrificed cattle and sheep to gods, ghosts, heaven, earth, and ancestors, burning the offerings completely. Disobedience to the leader was punishable by death; feuds could be settled with livestock. Wuhuan was located southwest of Dingling and northeast of Wusun, with many vipers.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
秋，雁门乌桓率众王无何，与鲜卑大人丘伦等，及南匈奴骨都侯，合七千骑寇五原，与太守战于九原高渠谷。汉兵大败，杀郡长吏。
乃遣车骑将军何熙、度辽将军梁等击，大破之。
无何乞降，鲜卑走还塞外。
是后乌桓稍复亲附，拜其大人戎朱为亲汉都尉。
顺帝阳嘉四年冬，乌桓寇云中，遮截道上商贾车牛千余两，度辽将军耿晔率二千余人追击，不利，又战于沙南，斩首五百级。
乌桓遂围晔于兰池城，于是发积射士二千人，度辽营千人，配上郡屯，以讨乌桓，乌桓乃退。
永和五年，乌桓大人阿坚、羌渠等与南匈奴左部句龙吾斯反畔，中郎将张耽击破斩之，余众悉降。
桓帝永寿中，朔方乌桓与休著屠各并畔，中郎将张奂击平之。
延熹九年夏，乌桓复与鲜卑及南匈奴寇缘边九郡，俱反，张奂讨之，皆出塞去。
灵帝初，乌桓大人上谷有难楼者，众九千余落，辽西有丘力居者，众五千余落，皆自称王；又辽东苏仆延，众千余落，自称峭王；右北平乌延，众人百余落，自称汗鲁王；并勇健而多计策。
中平四年，前中山太守张纯畔，入丘力居众中，自号弥天安定王，遂为诸郡乌桓元帅，寇掠青、徐、幽、冀四州。
translation: 
In the autumn of this year, Wuhuan of Yanmen led the king Wuhe, together with the Xianbei leader Qiulun and others, and the Guduhou of the Southern Xiongnu, with more than 7,000 cavalry, they invaded Wuyuan and fought with the Wuyuan prefect at Gaoqu Valley in Jiuyuan. The Han army was defeated and the county officials were killed.
The imperial court then sent the cavalry general He Xi, the Liao general Liang Dong and others to attack Wuhe, and they were defeated.
There was no need to beg for surrender, and the Xianbei people fled back beyond the frontier fortress.
From then on, the Wuhuan people gradually became closer to the Han, and the imperial court granted the Wuhuan tribal leader Rong Zhumo the title of pro-Han captaincy.
In the winter of the fourth year of Emperor Shun's reign in Yangjia, Wuhuan invaded Yunzhong and intercepted more than a thousand ox-carts of merchants on the road. Geng Ye, the general of Liao Dynasty, led more than 2,000 people to pursue the Wuhuan people. The battle was unfavorable, and they fought again in Shanan, killing 500 people.
The Wuhuan people then surrounded Geng Ye in Lanchi City. The imperial court then mobilized 2,000 trace-seeking soldiers and 1,000 soldiers from the Duliao camp to cooperate with the garrison in Shangjun to conquer Wuhuan, and the Wuhuan people retreated.
In the fifth year of Yonghe, Wuhuan's tribal leaders Ajian, Qiangqu and others and Julongwusi from the left of the southern Xiongnu rebelled. Zhang Dan, the central general, defeated and killed them, and the rest all surrendered.
During the Yongshou period of Emperor Huan, the Wuhuan people in Shuofang rebelled with Xiuzhu Tuge. Zhonglang attacked Zhang Huan and pacified the enemy.
In the summer of the ninth year of Yanxi, Wuhuan, together with Xianbei and the Southern Xiongnu, invaded nine counties along the border. They rebelled at the same time. Zhang Huan conquered the enemy, and they all left the border fortress.
In the early years of Emperor Ling, there was a tribal leader named Nanlou in Shanggu, who had more than 9,000 tribes of tribes, and there was a leader named Qiu Liju in western Liaoning, with more than 5,000 tribes of tribes, and they all called themselves kings. In addition, Su Puyan in Liaodong had more than a thousand tribes and called himself King Qiao; Wuyan in Youbeiping had more than 800 tribes and called himself King Hanlu: they were both brave and strong and had many strategies.
In the fourth year of Chongchuo, the governor of Protozoa Mountain rebelled. He joined Qiu Liju's tribe and proclaimed himself King Mitian Anding. He then became the marshal of the Wuhuan people in each county and invaded and plundered the four prefectures of Qingzhou, Xuzhou, Youzhou and Jizhou.

summary:
summary line 1: After Maodun’s defeat, Wuhuan remained weak, often submitting to the Xiongnu and paying annual tribute. Emperor Wu moved them outside the five counties of Shanggu, Yuyang, Youbeiping, Liaoxi, and Liaodong to spy on the Xiongnu. Their leaders paid homage to the emperor annually, and Wuhuan captains were established to supervise them. During Emperor Zhao’s reign, Wuhuan grew stronger, desecrated a Xiongnu chanyu’s tomb, and was attacked by the Xiongnu. General Huo Guang sent Fan Mingyou to intercept, but the Xiongnu had retreated; Fan then attacked Wuhuan, killing over 6,000. Under Emperor Xuan, Wuhuan gradually surrendered and guarded the border. When Wang Mang usurped the throne, he conscripted Wuhuan troops, holding their families hostage, leading to rebellion and hatred. The Xiongnu lured Wuhuan leaders to join them. In the early Guangwu period, Wuhuan and Xiongnu jointly invaded, devastating border counties. In the 21st year of Jianwu, Ma Yuan attacked Wuhuan but achieved little. In the 22nd year, Wuhuan defeated the weakened Xiongnu, and the emperor bribed them with money and cloth. In the 25th year, Hao Dan and 922 others paid tribute, and the emperor appointed 81 Wuhuan leaders as princes and commanders, settling them in border counties to scout for the Han. Later, Wuhuan captains were re-established to supervise them. From Emperor Ming to Emperor He, Wuhuan guarded the frontier peacefully. During Emperor An’s reign, Wuhuan invaded Daijun and Shanggu, and later Yanmen Wuhuan joined Xianbei and Southern Xiongnu in attacking Wuyuan, defeating the Han. The court sent He Xi and Liang Dong to defeat them, and Wuhuan gradually became closer to the Han. Under Emperor Shun, Wuhuan invaded Yunzhong, but Geng Ye repelled them. In the 5th year of Yonghe, Wuhuan leaders rebelled but were defeated by Zhang Dan. During Emperor Huan’s Yongshou period, Wuhuan in Shuofang rebelled but were pacified by Zhang Huan. In the 9th year of Yanxi, Wuhuan, Xianbei, and Southern Xiongnu invaded nine counties, but Zhang Huan drove them out. Under Emperor Ling, leaders like Nanlou and Qiu Liju claimed kingship. In the 4th year of Zhongping, Zhang Chun rebelled, joined Qiu Liju, and invaded four provinces. Liu Yu pacified the north. During Emperor Xian’s Chuping period, Tadun succeeded Qiu Liju and controlled three counties. Yuan Shao granted Tadun and others Chanyu seals. Later, Yan Rou killed the Wuhuan captain and replaced him. When Yuan Shang failed, he fled to Tadun. Cao Cao conquered Wuhuan in the 12th year of Jian’an, killed Tadun, captured 200,000, and moved the remaining people to the Central Plains.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
鲜卑既累杀郡守，胆意转盛，控弦数万骑。
延光元年冬，复寇雁门、定襄，遂攻太原，掠杀百姓。
二年冬，其至鞬自将万余骑入东领候，分为数道，攻南匈奴于曼柏，薁鞬日逐王战死，杀千余人。
三年秋，复寇高柳，击破南匈奴，杀渐将王。
顺帝永建元年秋，鲜卑其至鞬寇代郡，太守李超战死。
明年春，中郎将张国遣从事将南单于兵步骑万余人出塞，击破之，获其资重二千余种。
时，辽东鲜卑六千余骑亦寇辽东玄菟，乌桓校尉耿晔发缘边诸郡兵及乌桓率众王出塞击之，斩首数百级，大获其生口、牛、马、什物，鲜卑乃率种众三万人诣辽东乞降。
三年，四年，鲜卑频寇渔阳、朔方。
六年秋，耿晔遣司马将胡兵数千人，出塞击破之。
冬，渔阳太守又遣乌桓兵击之，斩首八百级，获牛、马、生口。
乌桓豪人扶漱官勇健，每与鲜卑战，辄陷敌，诏赐号 率众君 。
阳嘉元年冬，耿晔遣乌桓亲汉都尉戎朱率众王侯咄归等，出塞抄击鲜卑，大斩获而还，赐咄归等已下为率众王、侯、长，赐彩缯各有差。
鲜卑后寇辽东属国，于是耿晔乃移屯辽东无虑城拒之。
二年春，匈奴中郎将赵稠遣从事将南匈奴骨都侯夫沈等，出塞击鲜卑，破之，斩获甚众，诏赐夫沈金印紫绶及缣彩各有差。
秋，鲜卑穿塞入马城，代郡太守击之，不能克。
后其至鞬死，鲜卑抄盗差稀。
桓帝时，鲜卑檀石槐者，其父投鹿侯，初从匈奴军三年，其妻在家生子。
translation: 
Since Yuli killed the governor many times, his courage and determination became stronger, and he had tens of thousands of cavalry capable of fighting.
In the winter of the first year of Yanguang, Xianbei invaded Yanmen and Dingxiang, and then attacked Taiyuan, looting and killing people.
In the winter of the second year, he went to Tartar and personally led more than 10,000 cavalry into the border post of the Eastern Territory. The troops were divided into several groups and attacked the Southern Xiongnu in Manbai. During the battle, the king died in the battle, and more than 1,000 people were killed.
In the autumn of the third year, he went to Tartar and invaded Gaoliu, defeated the Southern Xiongnu and killed King Jianjiang.
In the autumn of the first year of Yongjian reign of Emperor Shun, Xianbei Qizhi Tartar invaded Dai County, and the prefect Li Chao died in the battle.
In the spring of the next year, Zhonglang sent Zhang Guo to lead Nan Shanyu's more than 10,000 infantry and cavalry out of the frontier, defeated them to the Tartars, and obtained more than 2,000 kinds of baggage from them.
At that time, more than 6,000 cavalrymen from Xianbei in Liaodong also invaded Liaodong and Xuantu. Wuhuan captain Geng Ye mobilized troops from the border counties and Wuhuan led the kings out of the border fortress to attack Xianbei, killing hundreds of people and obtaining a large number of people, cattle, horses and various utensils. The Xianbei leader then led 30,000 troops to Liaodong to beg for surrender.
In the third and fourth years of Yongjian, the Xianbei people invaded Yuyang and Shuofang many times.
In the autumn of the sixth year, Geng Ye sent Sima to lead thousands of Hu soldiers to the frontier fortress and defeated the Xianbei people.
In winter, the governor of Yuyang sent Wuhuan troops to attack Xianbei, killing 800 people and gaining cattle, horses and people.
Wuhuan's hero Fu Shuguan was brave and strong. Every time he fought against Xianbei, he always went deep into the enemy's formation. The emperor issued an edict and gave him the title of "leading all the kings".
In the winter of the first year of Yangjia, Geng Ye sent Wuhuan's close desert captain Rong Zhumo and Duogui and other princes to go out to the frontier to outflank and attack Xianbei. He killed many enemies and got a lot of things back. The imperial court gave Du Gui and others below the rank of leader of the kings, marquises, and chiefs, and rewarded them with different amounts of colorful silk and silk.
Xianbei later invaded the vassal state of Liaodong, so Geng Ye moved the garrison to Wulu City in Liaodong to resist Xianbei.
In the spring of the second year, the Xiongnu Zhonglang general Zhao Chou led Fu Shen, the Marquis of the Bone Capital of the Southern Huns, and others to go out to the frontier to attack Xianbei. They defeated the Xianbei people and killed many Xianbei people. They obtained a lot of things. The emperor issued an edict and gave Fu Shen a golden seal, purple ribbon and various amounts of silk fabrics.
In autumn, the Xianbei people crossed the border fortress and entered Macheng. The Daijun governor attacked the Xianbei people, but failed to win.
Later, he died, and the Xianbei people's raids and invasions gradually decreased.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, there was a man named Tan Shihuai in Xianbei. His father was Touluhou. He served in the Xiongnu army for three years, and his wife gave birth to a child at home.

summary:
summary line 2: Xianbei, also a Donghu branch, relied on Xianbei Mountain. Their customs were similar to Wuhuan, but they shaved their heads for marriage and gathered by the Raole River in spring. Their region had unique animals like wild horses and horned oxen, whose horns were used for bows. Mink and mole furs were valuable. In the early Han, Xianbei was defeated by Maodun and fled to Liaodong, with no contact with the Han. In the early Jianwu period, they invaded the north. In the 21st year, Ji Xu defeated them, and they later exchanged envoys with Han. Ji Xu bribed them to attack the Northern Xiongnu, and they received rewards. During the Ming and Zhang reigns, they guarded the border peacefully. Under Emperor He, Dou Xian defeated the Xiongnu, and Xianbei occupied their territory, absorbing 100,000 Xiongnu remnants and growing strong. They invaded Liaodong, Youbeiping, and Yuyang, with mixed results. During Emperor An’s Yongchu period, Yan Liyang paid tribute, and the court built facilities for trade and hostages. Xianbei alternately surrendered and rebelled, clashing with Xiongnu and Wuhuan. In the 2nd year of Yuanchu, they surrounded Wulu County but gained nothing. In the 4th year, Lianxiu invaded, but Wuhuan leader Yu Zhiju defeated him. In the 5th year, 10,000 Xianbei cavalry invaded Daijun, burning government offices. The court mobilized troops to guard Shanggu. In the 6th year, Deng Zun defeated Xianbei. In the 1st year of Yongning, Wulun and Qizhi Tar surrendered. In the 1st year of Jianguang, Qizhi Tar rebelled, invaded Juyong, and killed the prefect. Geng Kui relieved the siege. Qizhi Tar grew stronger, invading Yanmen, Dingxiang, and Taiyuan. In the 2nd year of Yanguang, he invaded the east, killing over 1,000. In the 3rd year, he invaded Gaoliu. Under Emperor Shun, Qizhi Tar invaded Dai County, killing the prefect. Zhang Guo defeated him in the 2nd year of Yongjian. Xianbei from Liaodong invaded but were repelled by Geng Ye. In the 3rd and 4th years, they invaded Yuyang and Shuofang. In the 6th year, Geng Ye defeated them. In the 1st year of Yangjia, Geng Ye sent Rong Zhumo to attack Xianbei successfully. Xianbei later invaded Liaodong, and Geng Ye moved to Wulu City. In the 2nd year, Zhao Chou defeated Xianbei. Under Emperor Huan, Tanshihuai emerged. His father Touluhou doubted his birth, but his wife claimed a miraculous conception. Tanshihuai grew brave and resourceful, recovering stolen cattle and becoming leader. He established a royal court by the Geqiu River, subdued tribes, and expanded territory from Dingling to Wusun, covering 14,000 miles east-west. In the 2nd year of Yongshou, he invaded Yunzhong. In the 1st year of Yanxi, Zhang Huan killed 200 Xianbei. In the 2nd year, they invaded Yanmen. In the 6th year, they invaded Liaodong. In the 9th year, tens of thousands invaded nine counties, but Zhang Huan drove them out. The court tried to make Tanshihuai king, but he refused and intensified raids. He divided Xianbei into three parts: east, middle, and west. Under Emperor Ling, Xianbei invaded the three provinces of Youzhou, Bingzhou, and Liangzhou annually. In the 3rd year of Xiping, Xia Zhi defeated them. In the 5th year, they invaded Youzhou. In the 6th year, they invaded three borders. Xia Yu proposed a winter-spring campaign, but the court disagreed. Tian Yan sought to lead an expedition, but Cai Yong advised against it, citing past failures and current poverty. The court ignored him, sending Xia Yu, Tian Yan, and Zang Man with 10,000 cavalry each. Tanshihuai’s forces defeated them, killing 70-80% of the troops. The generals were imprisoned. In the 1st year of Guanghe, Xianbei invaded Jiuquan. Tanshihuai, facing food shortages, attacked the Japanese eastward, capturing over 1,000 to fish. He died at 45, succeeded by his son Helian, who was less capable and lost half his people. Helian was killed by a Han archer. His son Qianman was young, and his nephew Kuixi succeeded. Later, Qianman competed with Kuixi, dividing the tribe. Budugen succeeded after Kuixi’s death. From Tanshihuai, leadership became hereditary. The text concludes that Wuhuan and Xianbei caused continuous border troubles, with no effective strategies to control them.

