Chunk 0: 
original: 
桓谭冯衍
桓谭字君山，沛国相人也。
父成帝时为太乐令。
谭以父任为郎，因好音律，善鼓琴。
博学多通，遍习《五经》，皆诂训大义，不为章句。
能文章，尤好古学，数从刘歆、杨雄辩析疑异。性嗜倡乐，简易不修威仪，而憙非毁俗儒，由是多见排抵。
哀、平间，位不过郎。
傅皇后父孔乡侯晏深善于谭。
是时，高安侯董贤宠幸，女弟为昭仪，皇后日已疏，晏嘿嘿不得意。
谭进说曰： 昔武帝欲立卫子夫，阴求陈皇后之过，而陈后终废，子夫竟立。
今董贤至爱而女弟尤幸，殆将有子夫之变，可不忧哉！
晏惊动，曰： 然，为之奈何？
谭曰： 刑罚不能加无罪，邪枉不能胜正人。
夫士以才智要君，女以媚道求主。
皇后年少，希更艰难，或驱使医巫，外求方技，此不可不番。
又君侯以后父尊重而多通宾客，必借以重势，贻致讥议。
不如谢遣门徒，务执廉悫，此修己正家避祸之道也。
晏曰： 善 。
遂罢遣常客，入白皇后，如谭所戒。
后贤果风太医令真钦，使求傅氏罪过，遂逮后弟侍中喜，诏狱无所得，乃解，故傅氏终全于哀帝之时。
及董贤为大司马，闻谭名，欲与之交。
谭先奏书于贤，说以辅国保身之术，贤不能用，遂不与通。
当王莽居摄篡弑之际，天下之士，莫不竟褒称德美，作符命以求容媚，谭独自守，默然无言。
莽时为掌乐大夫，更始立，召拜太中大夫。
世祖即位，征待诏，上书言事失旨，不用。
后大司空宋弘荐谭，拜议郎给事中，因上疏陈时政所宜，曰：臣闻国之废兴，在于政事；政事得失，由乎辅佐。
translation: 
◆The Legend of Huan Tan
Huan Tan, whose courtesy name is Junshan, was born in Xiangxian County, Peiguo County.
His father was Tai Leling when he became emperor.
Huan Tan was appointed as a minister due to his father's relationship, so he loved music and was good at drums and harp.
He is very knowledgeable, has read all the Five Classics, and can explain the great meanings of ancient books. Distinguish sentences without leaving chapters.
He wrote good articles, and especially loved ancient learning. He repeatedly analyzed difficult and different meanings through debates between Liu Xin and Yang Xiong. He also loved miscellaneous dramas. He was a simple man and did not put on official airs. He liked to slander secular Confucian scholars, so he was often ostracized and attacked.
During the reigns of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, his status was only that of a man.
Queen Fu's father, Fu Yan, the Marquis of Kongxiang, thought highly of Huan Tan.
At that time, Gao'an Hou Dong Xian was favored by the emperor, and his sister was named Zhaoyi. The emperor became increasingly alienated from Empress Fu, and Fu Yan was silently dissatisfied.
Huan Tan said to Fu Yan: In the past, Emperor Wu wanted to appoint Wei Zifu, and secretly collected Empress Chen's faults. Empress Chen was finally deposed, and Wei Zifu was actually appointed.
Now Dong Xian is favored and his sister is especially favored. There may be another change of "Wei Zihu". Don't you worry?
Fu Yan was alarmed and said: Yes, what should we do?
Huan Tan said: Punishment cannot be imposed on innocent people, and evil spirits cannot defeat righteous people in vain.
A scholar serves his master with his intelligence, and a woman seeks his master with a charming way.
The queen is young and has not experienced many hardships. There are people who are driving witch doctors inside, seeking magic skills outside, and practicing evil ways. We must be on guard against these.
Moreover, because the king is respected as the father of the queen, he communicates with the guests. The guests will definitely use this to enhance their power, which will attract people's ridicule.
Why don't you thank the guests and send the disciples away? You must be humble and cautious. This is the way to cultivate yourself and your family to avoid disaster.
Fu Yan said: OK.
So he dismissed the guests and went to the palace to tell the queen, just as Huan Tan said.
Later, Dong Xian indeed hinted to the imperial physician Ling Zhenqin to collect the Fu family's crimes and arrest Fu Xi, Empress Fu's younger brother. During the interrogation, no evidence of guilt was found, and the case was eliminated, so the Fu family was finally saved during the reign of Emperor Ai.
Later, Dong Xian became the Grand Sima. Hearing about Huan Tan's reputation, he wanted to make friends with him.
Huan Tan first wrote to Dong Xian, saying that Dong Xian could not use the method of assisting the country and protecting himself, so Huan Tan would not have any contact with him.
When Wang Mang was regent and usurped Emperor Ping, the intellectuals at that time all praised Wang Mang. Or they described auspicious signs to create public opinion to please Wang Mang, but Huan Tan kept his innocence and remained silent.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he was the official in charge of music. After Gengshili, he became the official of Taizhong.
When Shizu ascended the throne, he was summoned to wait for the imperial edict. Huan Tan wrote a letter and said something that was inconsistent with Shizu's will, so he did not adopt it.
Later, Song Hong, the Grand Sikong, recommended Huan Tan and paid homage to Yilang, so he wrote a letter stating the matters that should be paid attention to in political affairs at that time, saying: I heard that the failure of a country depends on political affairs; and the gains and losses of political affairs depend on whether the assistants are recruited.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
辅佐贤明，则俊士充朝，而理合世务；辅佐不明，则论失时宜，而举多过事。
夫有国之君，俱欲兴化建善，然而政道未理者，其所谓贤者异也。
昔楚庄王问孙叔敖曰： 寡人未得所以为国是也。
叔敖曰： 国之有是，众所恶也，恐王不能定也。
王曰： 不定独在君，亦在臣乎？
对曰： 居骄士，曰士非我无从富贵；士骄君，曰君非士无从安存。
人君或至失国而不悟，士或至饥寒而不进。
君臣不合，则国是无从定矣。
庄王曰： 善。
愿相国与诸大夫共定国是也。
盖善政者，视俗而施教，察失而立防，威德更兴，文武迭用，然后政调于时，而躁人可定。
昔董仲舒言 理国譬若琴瑟，其不调者则解而更张 。
夫更张难行，而拂众者亡，是故贾谊以才逐，而朝错以智死。
世虽有殊能而终莫敢谈者，惧于前事也。
且设法禁者，非能尽塞天下之奸，皆合众人之所欲也，大抵取便国利事多者，则可矣。
夫张官置吏，以理万人，县赏设罚，以别善恶，恶人诛伤，则善人蒙福矣。
今人相杀伤，虽已伏法，而私结怨仇，子孙相报，后忿深前，至于灭户殄业，而俗称豪健，故虽有怯弱，犹勉而行之，此为听人自理而无复法禁者也。
今宜申明旧令，若已伏官诛而私相伤杀者，虽一身逃亡，皆徙家属于边，其相伤者，加常二等，不得雇山赎罪。
如此，则仇怨自解，盗贼息矣。
夫理国之道，举本业而抑末利，是以先帝禁人二业，锢商贾不得宦为吏，此所以抑并兼长廉耻也。
translation: 
If the auxiliary is wise, the court will be filled with virtuous people, and the governance will be consistent with world affairs; if the auxiliary is unclear, and the things discussed are inappropriate, the actions will be more error-prone.
As the monarch of the country, everyone wants to promote education and establish good governance. However, political affairs cannot be managed well because the wise men have different opinions.
In the past, King Zhuang of Chu asked Sun Shuao, "I don't know how to handle state affairs well."
Shu Ao said: "Everyone hates the inability to decide the affairs of the country. I'm afraid the king cannot decide."
The King of Chu said: It cannot be determined that it is just the monarch, but also the ministers.
Shu Ao said: The monarch is proud of his ministers, saying that the ministers can't be rich without me; the minister is proud of the monarch, saying that the monarch can't live without his ministers.
Some monarchs have lost their country but still don't realize it, and some ministers have no food and clothing but can't even join the court.
If the ruler and his ministers are not in harmony, national affairs cannot be decided.
King Zhuang said: OK.
I hope that the prime minister and all the officials will jointly decide on national affairs.
Those who are impatient in handling political affairs teach according to customs, try to prevent mistakes wherever they are found, use both power and virtue, and use civil and military affairs in a mixed manner. Then the political affairs are adjusted to suit the time, while those who are impatient can make them stable.
Dong Zhongshu once said: Governing a country is like a harp and a harp. If it cannot be adjusted, it should be changed.
It is difficult to change the course, and disobeying everyone's requirements will lead to death. Therefore, Jia Yi was expelled because of his talent, and Chao Cuo died because of his wisdom.
The reason why people with special talents in the world dare not speak is because they are afraid of making the same mistakes as their predecessors.
Moreover, the establishment of laws and prohibitions cannot completely block the evildoers in the world. They are all in line with the wishes of everyone. Generally speaking, they can be adopted to facilitate the country and benefit many things.
Set up officials to govern the people, offer rewards and punishments to distinguish between good and evil, evil people will be punished and bruised, and good people will be happy.
Nowadays, people kill each other, and although they have been punished, they have developed grudges in private, and their descendants still want to take revenge. Later, the hatred is deeper than before, and even the whole family is killed and the property is destroyed. However, the customs still call him a heroic and strong man, so although some timid people still reluctantly learn from them, this is to let people take care of themselves and there is no legal prohibition.
The old order should now be reiterated. If someone has been executed by the government and kills someone privately, even though he has escaped, his family members should be moved to the border area. Those who hurt someone will be given a second-class rank, and they are not allowed to hire people to go to the mountains to cut trees to atone for their sins.
In this way, the grudges will be resolved and the thieves will be put to rest.
The principle of governing a country is to strengthen the original industry and suppress the unfinished business. Therefore, the late emperor banned people from engaging in secondary industries and banned merchants from serving as officials. This is the method of suppressing the unfinished business and cultivating integrity.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
今富商大贾，多放钱货，中家子弟，为之保役，趋走与臣仆等勤，收税与封君比入，是以众人慕效，不耕而食，至乃多通侈靡，以淫耳目。
今可令诸商贾自相纠告，若非身力所得，皆以臧界告者。
如此，则专役一已，不敢以货与人，事寡力弱，必归功田亩。
田亩修，则谷入多而地力尽矣。
又见法令决事，轻重不齐，或一事殊法，同罪异论，奸吏得因缘为市，所欲活则出生议，所欲陷则与死比，是为刑开二门也。
今可令通义理明习法律者，校定科比，一其法度，班下郡国，蠲除故条。
如此，天下知方，而狱无怨滥矣。
书奏，不省。
是时，帝方信谶，多以决定嫌疑。
又酬赏少薄，天下不时安定。
谭复上疏曰：臣前献瞽言，未蒙诏报，不胜愤懑，冒死得陈。
愚夫策谋，有益于政道者，以合人心而得事理也。
凡人情忽于见事而贵于异闻，观先王之所记述，咸以仁义正道为本，非有奇怪虚诞之事。
盖天道性命，圣人所难言也。
自子贡以下，不得而闻，况后世浅儒，能通之乎！
今诸巧慧小才伎数之人，增益图书，矫称谶记，以欺惑贪邪，诖误人主，焉可不抑远之哉！
臣谭伏闻陛下穷折方士黄白之术，甚为明矣；而乃欲听纳谶记，又何误也！
其事虽有时合，譬犹卜数只偶之类。
陛下宜垂明听，发圣意，屏群小之曲说，述《五经》之正义，略雷同之俗语，详通人之雅谋。
又臣闻安平则尊道术之士，有难则贵介胄之臣。
今圣朝兴复祖统，为人臣主，而四方盗贼未尽归伏者，此权谋未得也。
translation: 
Nowadays, most wealthy merchants and magnates engage in usury, and the children of middle-class families work as guarantors for them, working as hard as ministers, and the interest they receive is as much as the nobles in the fief. Therefore, everyone admires and imitates each other, abandons farming and doing business, and eats without farming, so that they are extravagant and wasteful, and enjoy themselves to the fullest.
Now merchants can be ordered to report each other, and if the income is not their own labor, they will confiscate it and use it to reward those who have done meritorious service.
In this way, you will only rely on your own labor and dare not hire others. If you have few people and weak strength, you will definitely give up business and return to farming.
When acres of land are cultivated, food income increases and soil fertility is fully utilized.
We also see that laws are now used to decide things, with different severity, or several laws for one thing, and the crime is the same but the punishment is different. This gives the traitors an opportunity to use the evidence of life if they want to live, and use the death penalty to compare if they want to die. This opens two doors for the criminal law.
Now we can gather a group of people who are familiar with the law in general theory to analyze and compare the legal provisions one by one, unify the laws, promulgate them to the states, and abolish all the old provisions.
In this way, everyone in the world will know the policy of the imperial court, and there will be no indiscriminate resentment in prisons.
The book was sent up, but was not accepted.
At this time, the emperor was superstitious about prophecies and used them to determine suspicions.
Moreover, the rewards are few and thin, and the world is sometimes unstable.
Huan Tan wrote again and said: I was angry when I didn't get anything in return when I submitted my letter last time, so now I risk my life to do it again.
An ordinary person's suggestions are beneficial to politics because they are in line with people's hearts and serve as the basis for affairs.
Human nature often ignores the matter itself and regards various rumors as precious. The records of the former kings are all based on benevolence and righteousness and following the right path, and there is nothing strange and absurd.
Probably even the saints find it difficult to explain the laws of heaven and life.
No one understands it from Zigong on down, let alone some shallow vulgar scholars in later generations. Can they understand it?
Nowadays, some clever and talented people create all kinds of books, pretending to be prophecies, and use them to deceive the greedy people and mislead the people. Why don't you resist it and abandon it?
I heard that your Majesty severely punished the alchemists for their magic in gold and silver. How wise this is! But to actually want to hear prophecies, what a mistake this is!
Although the prophecies sometimes coincide with each other, it is the same as the divination that sometimes tells the truth.
Your Majesty should pay attention to listening clearly, carry forward your own will, reject the distorted heresies of villains, clarify the justice of the Five Classics, get rid of those common sayings that follow what others say, and carefully observe the opinions of people who are knowledgeable in matters.
I also heard that when the country is in peace, people will respect Taoists, and when the country is in trouble, they will respect the generals.
Now the Holy Dynasty has restored the legal system of its ancestors and is a monarch who is subject to others. The reason why the thieves from all directions have not been completely surrendered is because they have not obtained good power plans.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
臣谭伏观陛下用兵，诸所降下，既无重赏以相恩诱，或至虏掠夺其财物，是以兵长渠率，各生孤疑，党辈连结，岁月不解。
古人有言曰： 天下皆知取之为取，而莫知与之为取。
陛下诚能轻爵重赏，与士共之，则何招而不至，何说而不释，何向而不开，何征而不克！
如此，则能以狭为广，以迟为速，亡者复存，失者复得矣。
帝省奏，愈不悦。
其后，有诏会议灵台所处，帝谓谭曰： 吾欲以谶决之，何如？
谭默然良久，曰： 臣不读谶。
帝问其故，谭复极言谶之非经。
帝大怒曰： 桓谭非圣无法，将下斩之！
谭叩头流血，良久乃得解。
出为六安郡丞，意忽忽不乐，道病卒，时年七十余。
初，谭著书言当世行事二十九篇，号曰《新论》，上书献之，世祖善焉。
《琴道》一篇未成，肃宗使班固续成之。
所著赋、诔、书、奏，凡二十六篇。
元和中，肃宗行东巡狩，至沛，使使者祠谭冢，乡里以为荣。
冯衍字敬通，京兆杜陵人也。
祖野王，元帝时为大鸿胪。
衍幼有奇才，年九岁，能诵《诗》，至二十而博通群书。
王莽时，诸公多荐举之者，衍辞不肯仕。
时，天下兵起，莽遣更始将军廉丹讨伐山东。
丹辟衍为掾，与俱至定陶。
莽追诏丹曰： 仓廪尽矣，府库空矣，可以怒矣，可以战矣。
将军受国重任，不捐身于中野，无以报恩塞责。
丹惶恐，夜召衍，以书示之。
衍因说丹曰： 衍闻顺而成者，道之所大也；逆而功者，权之所贵也。
是故期于有成，不问所由；论于大体，不守小节。
昔逢丑父伏轼而使其君取饮，称于诸侯；郑祭仲立突而出忽，终得复位，美于《春秋》。
translation: 
I, Huan Tan, have observed your Majesty's use of troops, and found that for those who surrendered, there were no heavy rewards to induce kindness, and some even plundered their property. Therefore, the generals, large and small, were suspicious and colluded with each other, and could not solve the problem after many years.
The ancients said: Everyone in the world knows that taking is taking, but they don’t know that giving is also taking.
If Your Majesty can be more considerate than the official title but more important than the reward, and share it with the soldiers, then who will be unable to recruit, and who will not be able to explain it? Where does it point and where does it not open? Conquer the enemy, which enemy cannot be conquered!
In this way, narrowness can be used as broadness, delay can be used as speed, death can be reborn, and loss can be gained again.
The emperor was even more unhappy after reading the memorial.
Later, there was an edict to convene ministers to discuss the location of the spiritual platform. The emperor said to Huan Tan: I want to use prophecies to decide, how about it?
Huan Tan was silent for a long time and said: I don't read prophecies.
The emperor asked the reason, and Huan Tan once again argued that the prophecy was grotesque and unreasonable.
The emperor was furious and said: "Huan Tan is not a saint, so he should be taken down and beheaded."
Huan Tan kowtowed and the bleeding lasted for a long time.
Transferred to Liu'an County Cheng. Huan Tan was in a bad mood and died of illness on the road. He was over seventy years old.
At first, Huan Tan wrote twenty-nine articles on how to deal with the current situation, named it "New Treatise", and presented it to the imperial court, which was praised by his ancestors.
One chapter of "Qin Dao" was not completed, so Suzong ordered Ban Gu to continue completing it.
He wrote a total of twenty-six poems, admonitions, books and memorials.
During the Yuan Dynasty, Suzong went on a hunting tour to the east. When he arrived at Pei, he sent envoys to pay homage to Huan Tan's tomb, which made the village proud.
◆Feng Yan's biography: Feng Yan, courtesy name Jingtong, was from Duling, Jingzhao.
The ancestor Feng Yewang was Dahonglu during the Yuan Dynasty.
Feng Yan was a genius when he was young. He was able to recite "Poetry" at the age of nine. By the time he was twenty, he was well versed in many books.
During Wang Mang's reign, many people recommended him to be an official, but Feng Yan declined.
At this time, the army was rising, and Wang Mang sent Gengshi General Lian Dan to attack Shandong.
Lian Dan recruited Feng Yanshou as an official and went to Dingtao with him.
Wang Mang issued an edict to Lian Dan, saying: "The food in the warehouse has been exhausted, and the money in the treasury is empty. It's time to get angry and fight."
A general has a heavy responsibility for his country, and he cannot repay his kindness without sacrificing his life in the wilderness.
Lian Dan was frightened and summoned Feng Yan at night to read him the edict.
Feng Yan then said to Lian Dan: I heard that those who follow the right path are the greatest; those who go against the right path but can succeed, this should be taken seriously when weighing.
Therefore, if you hope to achieve success, don't ask about the reasons; if the principles are consistent with the general principles, don't stick to the details.
In the past, Feng Chou's father asked the Marquis of Qi to pretend to be a charioteer and go to Huaquan to drink, thus saving the Marquis of Qi from disaster, and was praised by the princes. Zheng Zhong's Ji Zhong succumbed to the intimidation of the Song Dynasty and made the prince Hu finally return to his throne, which was praised in the "Spring and Autumn Annals".


Chunk 4: 
original: 
盖以死易生，以存易亡，君子之道也。
诡于众意，宁国存身，贤智之虑也。
故《易》曰 穷则变，变则通，通则久，是以自天祐之，吉，无不利 。
若夫知其不可而必行之，破军残众，无补于主，身死之日，负义于时，智者不为，勇者不行。
且衍闻之，得时无怠。
张良以五世相韩，椎秦始皇博浪之中，勇冠乎贲、育，名高乎太山。
将军之先，为汉信臣。
新室之兴，英俊不附。
今海内溃乱，人怀汉德，甚于诗人思召公也，爱其甘棠，而况子孙乎？
人所歌舞，天必从之。
方今为将军计，莫若屯据大郡，镇抚吏士，砥厉其节，百里之内，牛酒日赐，纳雄桀之士，询忠智之谋，要将来之心，待从横之变，兴社稷之利，除万人之害，则福禄流于无穷，功烈著于不灭。
何与军覆于中原，身膏于草野，功败名丧，耻及先祖哉？
圣人转祸而为福，智士因败而为功，愿明公深计而无与俗同。
丹不能从。
进及睢阳，复说丹曰： 盖闻明者见于无形，智者虑于未萌，况其昭晢者乎？
凡患生于所忽，祸发于细微，败不可悔，时不可失。
公孙鞅曰： 有高人之行，负非于世；有独见之虑，见赘于人。
故信庸庸之论，破金石之策，袭当世之操，失高明之德。
夫决者智之君也。疑者事之役也。
时不重至，公勿再计。
丹不听，遂进及无盐，与赤眉战死。
衍乃亡命河东。
translation: 
It is the way of a gentleman to sacrifice death to live, to survive to perish.
It is a wise consideration of a sage to use secrets when it is difficult to go against the public opinion in order to ensure the peace of the country and protect oneself.
Therefore, the "Book of Changes" says: If you are poor, seek change; if you change, you will be successful; if you are successful, you will be long-lasting. Therefore, you will get blessings from heaven, good luck, and no disadvantages.
If you insist on doing it despite knowing that it is not feasible, your army will be destroyed and your troops will be crippled, and you will be of no use to the Lord. If you die, you will have betrayed your responsibilities at that time. This is something that a wise man cannot do and a brave man cannot do it.
And I heard, don’t slack off when you get the chance.
Zhang Liang became the prime minister of Korea for the fifth time, and Qin destroyed Han. Zhang Liang hired dead soldiers to attack Qin Shihuang with spines on the Bolang Sands. His courage surpassed that of Meng Ben and Xia Yu, and his reputation was higher than Mount Tai.
The ancestors of the generals were loyal ministers of the Han Dynasty.
The new kingdom founded by Wang Mang was not wanted by Yingjun.
Now that the country is in turmoil, people miss the kindness of the Han Dynasty even more than the poet misses Duke Zhao. In the past, Uncle Zhao rested under the Gantang tree, and future generations loved his Gantang tree. How much more so since you are a descendant of Han officials?
Whatever man wants, God will follow it.
Now for the general's advice, it is best to garrison troops in large counties, control the officials, hone their moral integrity, and reward them with cattle and wine every day within a hundred miles, so as to recruit heroes and heroes, consult loyal and wise strategies, restrain their future wishes, wait for changes in the situation, revitalize the interests of the country, and eradicate the harm of thousands of people. Then blessings will spread endlessly, and great achievements will be immortal.
How does this compare to the destruction of the army in the Central Plains, the use of one's own flesh and blood as fertilizer for weeds, the ruin of one's success and the disgrace to one's ancestors?
The sage turns misfortunes into blessings, and the wise men turn failures into success. I hope that the wise will consider it deeply and not be like the common people.
Lian Dan didn't listen.
Entering Suiyang, Feng Yan said to Lian Dan again: I heard that people who understand can see things before they are formed, and smart people can think about problems before they sprout, let alone things that are clearly out there.
All disasters arise from neglect. Disasters occur in subtle and hidden places. If you fail, it will be too late to regret it. The opportunity cannot be lost.
Gongsun Yang said: Those whose behavior is higher than that of ordinary people always have a bad reputation; those who have unique insights are always doubted and disliked by others.
Therefore, believing in mediocre arguments will destroy a firm strategy, and following contemporary ethics will lose noble virtues.
Decision-making is the master of wisdom, and doubt is not worth it.
This opportunity will never come again, so don't hesitate any longer.
Lian Dan refused to listen, so he marched into Wuyan, fought with Chimei and died.
Feng Yan fled for his life in Hedong.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
更始二年，遣尚书仆射鲍永行大将军事，安集北方。衍因以计说永曰：衍闻明君不恶切悫之言，以测幽冥之论；忠臣不顾争引之患，以达万机之变。
是故君臣两兴，功名兼立，铭勒金石，令问不忘。
今衍幸逢宽明之日，将值危言之时，岂敢拱默避罪，而不竭其诚哉！
伏念天上离王莽之害久矣。
始自东郡之师，继以西海之役，巴、蜀没于南夷，缘边破于北狄，远征万里，暴兵累年，祸拏未解，兵连不息，刑法弥深，赋敛愈重。
众强之党，横击于外，百僚之臣，贪残于内，元元无聊，饥寒并臻，父子流亡，夫妇离散，庐落丘墟，田畴芜秽，疾疫大兴，灾异蜂起。
于是江湖之上，海岱之滨，风腾波涌，更相骀藉，四垂之人，肝脑涂地，死亡之数，不啻太半，殃咎之毒，痛入骨髓，匹夫僮妇，咸怀怨怒。
皇帝以圣德灵威，龙兴凤举，率宛、叶之众，将散乱之兵，血昆阳，长驱武关，破百万之陈，摧九虎之军，雷震四海，席卷天下，攘除祸乱，诛灭无道，一期之间，海内大定。
继高祖之休烈，修文武之绝业，社稷复存，炎精更辉，德冠往初，功无与二。
天下自以去亡新，就圣汉，当蒙其福而赖其愿。
树恩布德，易以周洽，其犹顺惊风而飞鸿毛也。
然而诸将虏掠，逆伦绝理，杀人父子，妻人妇女，燔其室屋，略其财产，饥者毛食，寒者裸跣，冤结失望，无所归命。
今大将军以明淑之德，秉大使之权，统三军之政，存抚并州之人，惠爱之诚，加乎百姓，高世之声，闻乎群士，故其延颈企踵而望者，非特一人也。
且大将军之事，岂得珪璧其行，束修其心而已哉？
将定国家之大业，成天地之元功也。
昔周宣中兴之主，齐桓霸强之君耳，犹有申伯、召虎、夷吾、吉甫攘其蝥贼，安其疆宇。
况乎万里之汉，明帝复兴，而大将军为之梁栋，此诚不可以忽也。
translation: 
In the second year of Gengshi's reign, he sent Minister Bao Yong to act as the general's military force and settled in the north. Feng Yan offered advice to Bao Yong and said: I heard that Ming Jun does not hate practical words to speculate on far-reaching remarks; loyal ministers ignore the consequences of arguments to achieve changes in complicated government affairs.
Therefore, both the monarch and his ministers prospered, their reputations were established, their reputations were engraved on gold and stone, and their good reputations were left to future generations.
Now that I, Feng Yan, have the good fortune to meet Kuan Ming, it is the time to speak out and remonstrate. How dare I stay silent to avoid sin and not be sincere!
I have been thinking about the disaster caused by Wang Mang for a long time.
At first, Zhai Yi raised troops in Dongjun, then there was the battle of the West Sea. In Ba and Shu, there were wars in Ba and Shu, where the southwestern barbarians attacked Yizhou and killed Dayin. In the northwest frontier, there was the Beidi invasion of Yunzhong, killing people and plundering. Wang Mang sent troops on expeditions thousands of miles away, exposing his soldiers for months and months. Disasters continued, wars continued, criminal laws became more cruel, and taxation became more severe.
Many violent party members were tyrannical outside, and officials and ministers were greedy and cruel inside. The common people were helpless, hungry and cold, fathers and sons were exiled, couples were separated, villages were turned into ruins, fields were deserted, diseases and disasters were widespread.
So on the rivers and lakes, on the shores of Haidai, there were turbulent waves, and they disturbed each other. People from all directions were devastated, and more than half of them died. The poison of the disaster was painful to the bone, and every man and every woman was filled with resentment in their hearts.
With the power of the most holy virtues and gods, the emperor led the troops of Wan and Ye, commanded the scattered soldiers, entered Kunyang in bloodshed, and then drove straight into Wuguan, defeated a million enemies, destroyed Wang Mang's nine tiger army, shocked the world, swept the world, swept away the chaos, and punished the unjust. Within a year, the whole country was settled.
Inheriting the great cause of the Emperor Gaozu, he restored the imperial legacy that had been interrupted by the Han Dynasty and the Han Dynasty. The country was restored and the Han Dynasty became more glorious. His kindness was greater than that of the past, and his merits cannot be added.
Since the world has left Wang Mang and followed the Holy Han, it should receive his blessings and rely on his wishes.
It is as easy as flying feathers in the strong wind to establish love and charity, and to make this kind of kindness deeply rooted in people's hearts.
However, now the generals are plundering, violating ethics, killing fathers and sons, taking women as wives, burning other people's houses, plundering other people's property, leaving the hungry without food, the cold with bare feet, the hatred and hatred cannot be resolved, and the despair has no fate.
Today, with his virtuous and kind-hearted virtues, and the authority of an ambassador, the general is in charge of the political affairs of the three armies, rescues the people of the state, and has a sincere love for the people. He has a noble reputation and is heard by the people like thunder. Therefore, he cranes his neck and stands on tiptoes in hope. It is not just one person.
Moreover, how can the general's career be like that of Wang Guibi, who only seeks to restrain himself and cultivate his moral integrity?
He will establish the great cause of the country and become the hero of heaven and earth.
In the past, King Xuan of Zhou was just the leader of the ZTE, and Duke Huan of Qi was just a powerful king. But they also had heroes like Shen Bo, Zhao Hu, Guan Zhong, and Ji Fu to fight against thieves from outside and secure territory from inside.
What's more, in the Han Dynasty, which was thousands of miles away, Emperor Ming was revived, and the general assumed the important task of being the pillar of the country. This really cannot be ignored.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
且衍闻之，兵久则力屈，人悉则变生。
今邯郸之贼未灭，真定之际复扰，而大将军所部不过百里，守城不休，战军不息，兵革云翔，百姓震骇，奈何自怠，不为深忧？
夫并州之地，东带名关，北逼强胡，年谷独孰，人庶多资，斯四战之地，攻守之场也。
如其不虞，何以待之？
故曰 德不素积，人不为用。
备不豫具，难以应卒 。
今生人之命，县于将军，将军所杖，必须良才，宜改易非任，更选贤能。
夫十室之邑，必有忠信。
审得其人，以承大将军之明，虽则山泽之人，无不感德，思乐为用矣。
然后简精锐之卒，发屯守之士，三军既整，甲兵已具，相其土地之饶，观其水泉之利，制屯田之术，习战射之教，则威风远暢，人安其业矣。
若镇太原，抚上党，收百姓之欢心，树名贤之良佐，天下无变，则足以显声誉，一朝有事，则可以建大功。
惟大将军开日月之明，发深渊之虑，监《六经》之论，观孙、吴之策，省群议之是非，详众士之白黑，以超《周南》之迹，垂《甘棠》之风，令夫功烈施于千载，富贵传于无穷。
伊、望之策，何以加兹！
永既素重衍，为且受使得自置偏裨，乃以衍为立汉将军，领狼孟长，屯太原，与上党太守田邑等缮甲养士，扞卫并土。
及世祖即位，遣宗正刘延攻天井关，与田邑连战十余合，延不得进。
邑迎母弟妻子，为延所获。
后邑闻更始败，乃遣使诣洛阳献璧马，即拜为上党太守。
因遣使者招永、衍，永、衍等疑不肯降，而忿邑背前约，衍乃遗邑书曰：盖闻晋文出奔而子犯宣其忠，赵武逢难而程婴明其贤，二子之义当矣。
translation: 
Moreover, I have heard that if a soldier is used for a long time, his strength will be exhausted, and when people make mistakes, accidents will happen.
Now that the thieves in Handan have not been wiped out, and the Zhending border has been disturbed again, and the troops commanded by the general can only govern a hundred miles, the city is constantly guarded, wars are endless, the troops are in trouble, and the people are disturbed. Why are you slacking off and not making further considerations?
Bingzhou is a place close to the fortress Mingguan in the east and Qianghu in the north. The grain harvest is abundant every year and the people are rich and wealthy. This is a place where wars are fought on all sides and a place for attack and defense.
If a problem occurs, how to deal with it?
Therefore, if kindness is not accumulated from ordinary times, people will not use it.
If you are not prepared on a daily basis, it will be difficult to cope with unexpected events.
Now the lives of the people depend on the generals, and the generals must rely on good talents. Those who are incompetent should be replaced, and more talented people should be selected.
A city with ten houses must have loyal people.
If such people are found through inspection, they will be able to accept the direct use of the general. Even though they are from the mountains and wilds, they will not be unworthy of virtue and will be happy to serve the general.
Then select elite soldiers and soldiers who work hard to garrison. Now that the three armies have been organized and armored soldiers are available, look for where the land is rich and where the water springs are convenient. Wherever you can cultivate the art of farming and practice the training of warfare and archery, you will be majestic and peaceful, and people will settle down.
If you guard Taiyuan, pacify the Shangdang, win the favor of the people, and establish a virtuous and good assistant, then you can show your reputation when there is no trouble in the world, and you can achieve great success if there is trouble.
I hope that the general will enlighten the sun and the moon, make far-reaching considerations, learn from the arguments of the "Six Classics", observe the strategies of Sun Wu and Wu Qi, examine the rights and wrongs of public opinions, and distinguish the right and wrong of all scholars in detail, so as to surpass the relics of "Zhou Nan", spread the legacy of "Gantang", let the meritorious deeds be used for thousands of years, and the wealth and honor will be passed on endlessly.
Yi Yin and Lu Wang's good strategy, how can there be any better than this!
Bao Yong had always valued Feng Yan, and he could appoint his own general when he accepted the mission, so he appointed Feng Yan as the general of the Han Dynasty, led the magistrate of Langmeng County, stationed troops in Taiyuan, and repaired armor and maintained soldiers with Tianyi, the Shangdang governor, to defend the land of Bingzhou.
After Shizu ascended the throne, he sent his clan member Liu Yan to attack Tianjing Pass. They fought with Tianyi for more than ten consecutive battles, but Liu Yan could not advance.
Tianyi welcomed his mother's brother's wife and was captured by Liu Yan.
Later, when Tianyi heard that Gengshi had failed, he sent envoys to Luoyang to present jewels and horses, and he was worshiped as the governor of Shangdang.
So he sent envoys to recruit Bao Yong and Feng Yan to surrender. Bao Yong and Feng Yan were suspicious and refused to surrender. They were angry that Tian Yi had betrayed the previous agreement. Feng Yan wrote to Tian Yi and said: I heard that Duke Wen of Jin fled and Hu Yan expressed his loyalty. Zhao Wu was in trouble but Cheng Ying showed his virtue. The loyalty of the two of them is very appropriate.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
今三王背畔，赤眉危国，天下蚁动，社稷颠陨，是忠臣立功之日，志士驰马之秋也。
伯玉擢选剖符，专宰大郡。
夫上党之地，有四塞之固，东带三关，西为国蔽，奈何举之以资强敌，开天下之匈，假仇雠之刃？岂不哀哉！
衍闻之，委质为臣，无有二心；挈瓶之智，守不假器。
是以晏婴临盟，拟以曲戟，不易其辞；谢息守郕，胁以晋、鲁，不丧其邑。
由是言之，内无钩颈之祸，外无桃莱之利，而被畔人之声，蒙降城之耻，窃为左右羞之。
且邾庶其窃邑畔君，以要大利，曰贱而必书；莒牟夷以土地求食，而名不灭。
是以大丈夫动则思礼，行则思义，未有背此而身名能全者也。
为伯玉深计，莫若与鲍尚书同情戮力，显忠贞之节，立超世之功。
如以尊亲系累之故，能捐位投命，归之尚书，大义既全，敌人纾怨，上不损剖符之责，下足救老幼之命，申眉高谈，无愧天下。
若乃贪上党之权，惜全邦之实，衍恐伯玉必怀周赵之忧，上党复有前年之祸。
昔晏平仲纳延陵之诲，终免栾高之难；孙林父违穆子之戒，故陷终身之恶。
以为伯玉闻此至言，必若刺心，自非婴城而坚守，则策马而不顾也。
圣人转祸而为福，智士因败以成胜，愿自强于时，无与俗同。
邑报书曰：仆虽驽怯，亦欲为人者也，岂苟贪生而畏死哉！
曲戟在颈，不易其心，诚仆志也。
间者，老母诸弟见执于军，而邑安然不顾者，岂非重其节乎？
若使人居天地，寿如金石，要长生而避死地可也。
今百龄之期，未有能至，老壮之间，相去几何。
translation: 
Now the three kings have betrayed, the red eyebrows are endangering the country, the world is in turmoil, and the country is overthrown and destroyed. This is the day when loyal ministers perform meritorious service and the time when patriots gallop forward.
You, Boyu, were promoted to be the governors of the great counties.
Shangdang is a place with strong fortresses on all four sides, three passes in the east, and a shield of the country in the west. Why is it not sad to hand over your hands to a powerful enemy, start the world's disputes, and use the enemy's sword to kill people?
I have heard that people who bend their knees to be a minister have no second thoughts; even though they are only smart enough to draw water, they can still keep the utensil and not lend it to others.
Therefore, Yan Ying was kidnapped to attend Cui Zhu's alliance. Cui Zhu threatened him with a halberd and sword, but Yan Ying refused to change his tune and obeyed.
From this point of view, there are no internal disasters, no external benefits, but I am known as a traitor and suffer the shame of surrendering to the city. I am really ashamed of myself.
Moreover, Dr. Zhu, a concubine, stole the land and rebelled against the emperor in order to seek great profits. "Zuo Zhuan" considered it to be despicable and must be written down; Dr. Mou Yi of Ju used the land to seek food, but his reputation will never be destroyed.
Therefore, when a man acts, he thinks of propriety, and when he acts, he thinks of justice. If he does not violate this, his reputation can be preserved.
To make an in-depth design for you Boyu, it is best to work together with Bao Shangshu to show your loyalty and make extraordinary achievements.
If you can abandon your official position and surrender to the minister because of the reason that your respected relatives are imprisoned, your righteousness will be fulfilled, and your enemies will be able to forgive their grievances. You will not compromise the responsibility of cutting the talisman, save the lives of the young and old, raise your eyebrows and speak loudly, and you will be worthy of the world.
If it is for the sake of coveting the power of the governor of Shangdang and cherishing the world's property, I am afraid that Boyu will suffer the same fate as King Zhao, and Shangdang will have the same disaster as before.
In the past, Yan Pingzhong accepted the advice of Prince Zha of Wu State and returned the political power and fiefdom of Yanling through Chen Huanzi, thus avoiding the chaos launched by the Luan family and the Gao family; but Geng Lin's father violated the advice of his uncle and grandson Muzi and fell into lifelong evil.
I think Boyu must have heard these wise words deeply in his heart. Naturally, he would either circle the city and hold on, or ride his horse and ignore it.
The sage turns misfortune into blessing, and the wise man turns defeat into victory. May you be stronger than the people of your time, and do not conform to the customs.
Tianyi wrote back and said: Although my servant is dull and timid, he still wants to be a good man. Could he be someone who is greedy for life and afraid of death?
The curved halberd on the neck does not change the mind. This is my ambition.
In the past, my mother and brothers were detained in the army, but I ignored them. Isn't this a matter of integrity?
Suppose a person lives between heaven and earth and values ​​life as precious as gold and stone. If he wants to live forever and avoid falling into death, it is enough.
Nowadays, no one can reach the age of 100. How big is the distance between old and middle-aged people?


Chunk 8: 
original: 
诚使故朝尚在，忠义可立，虽老亲受戮，妻兒横分，邑之愿也。
间者，上党黠贼，大众围城，义兵两辈，入据井陉。
邑亲溃敌围，拒击宗正，自试智勇，非不能当。
诚知故朝为兵所害，新帝司徒已定三辅，陇西、北地从风响应。
其事昭昭，日月经天，河海带地，不足以比。
死生有命，富贵在天。
天下存亡，诚云命也。
邑虽没身，能如命何？
夫人道之本，有恩有义，义有所宜，恩有所施。
君臣大义，母子至恩。
今故主已亡，义其谁为；老母拘执，恩所当留。
而厉以贪权，诱以策马，抑其利心，必其不顾，何其愚乎！
邑年三十，历位卿士，性少嗜欲，情厌事为。
况今位尊身危，财多命殆，鄙人知之，何疑君子？
君长、敬通揭节垂组，自相署立。盖仲由使门人为臣，孔子讥其欺天。
君长据位两州，加以一郡，而河东畔国，兵不入彘，上党见围，不窥大谷，宗正临境，莫之能援。
兵威屈辱，国权日损，三王背畔，赤眉害主，未见兼行倍道之赴，若墨翟累茧救宋，申包胥重胝存楚，卫女驰归唁兄之志。
主亡一岁，莫知定所，虚冀妄言，苟肆鄙塞。
未能事生，安能事死？
未知为臣，焉知为主？
岂厌为臣子，思为君父乎！
欲摇太山而荡北海，事败身危，要思邑言。
衍不从。
或讹言更始随赤眉在北，永、衍信之，故屯兵界休，方移书上党，云皇帝在雍，以惑百姓。
translation: 
If the Gengshi regime still exists and loyalty can be established, Tianyi will be willing to do so even if his mother is killed and his wife and children are quartered.
Recently, the cunning thieves of Shangdang surrounded the city in large numbers, and two generations of rebel soldiers entered Jingxing.
I, Tianyi, personally defeated the enemy siege and fought against Zongzheng Liu Yan. I estimate that from the perspective of intellectual ability, I am not unable to resist.
However, I know that Gengshi has died in the war, the new emperor Situ Dengyu has put down the three assistants, and Longxi and the north have responded.
The facts are very clear, even the sun, the moon, the sky, the rivers and the sea are not enough to compare.
Life and death have destiny, wealth and honor are in heaven.
The survival of the world can truly be said to be predestined.
Even if I, Tianyi, die, can I change this fate?
From the fundamental point of view of human nature, there is kindness and righteousness, righteousness is suitable, and kindness is given.
The monarch and his ministers are righteous, and the mother and son are the most kind.
Now that the old master is dead, who can he fulfill his justice for? The old mother has been detained, so in terms of repaying her kindness, she should stay.
But you severely accused me of being greedy for power and tempted me to ride my horse anyway, thinking that as long as I restrained my self-interest, I would ride my horse regardless. How stupid is this!
I, Tianyi, am already thirty years old and have been a minister. Personally speaking, I have few hobbies and desires, and I hate being meddlesome and reckless.
What's more, now that my position is high and my body is at risk, my wealth and life are at risk. I know it very well, so why do I need others to wonder?
Bao Yong and you Feng Yan, holding the talisman seal and ribbon, established themselves as officials. In the past, Zhong You made his disciples ministers, but Confucius ridiculed their deceit and deceived heaven.
Bao Yong controlled two states and one county, but Gengshi was defeated. The countries in Hedong rebelled, and Bao Yong launched a campaign. The cunning thieves besieged Shangdang, but Bao Yong did not send troops to rescue him. Liu Yan was approaching, and Bao Yong could not help.
The military power was humiliated, the authority of the country was weakened day by day, the three kings were betrayed, and the red eyebrows harmed the reform. Bao Yong was not seen as a diligent king who did double duty, like Mo Zhai who had thick calluses on his hands and feet to save the Song Dynasty, Shen Baoxu endured hardships but still wanted to survive in Chu, and the guard daughter Mrs. Xu Mugong wanted to return to mourn her brother's loyalty.
Gengshi has been dead for a year, and he still doesn't know where he is. He is dreaming and talking nonsense, and he is living in peace and despise.
If you can't serve a servant, how can you serve a dead person?
If you don’t know how to be a minister, how can you know how to be a master?
Could it be that he is tired of being a minister and wants to be a king and father?
If you want to shake Mount Tai and swing across the North Sea, you will not succeed and your body will be in danger. I hope you will think carefully about my words.
Feng Yan refused.
Some people spread rumors that Gengshi was following Chimei in the north. Bao Yong and Feng Yan believed it, so they stationed troops in Jiexiu. They were about to send a letter to the party, saying that the emperor was in Yong, in order to confuse the people.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
永遣弟升及子媚张舒诱降涅城，舒家在上党，邑悉系之。
又书劝永降，永不答，自是与邑有隙。
邑字伯玉，冯翊人也，后为渔阳太守。
永、衍审知更始已殁，乃共罢兵，幅巾降于河内。
帝怨衍等不时至，永以立功得赎罪，遂任用之，而衍独见黜。
永谓衍曰： 昔高祖赏季布之罪，诛丁固之功。
今遭明主，亦何忧哉！
衍曰： 记有之，人有挑其邻人之妻者，挑其长者，长者詈之，挑其少者，少者报之，后其夫死而取其长者。
或谓之曰： 夫非骂尔者邪？
曰： 在人欲其报我，在我欲其骂人也。
夫天命难知，人道易守，守道之臣，何患死亡？
顷之，帝以衍为曲阳令，诛斩剧贼郭胜等，降五千余人，论功当封，以谗毁，故赏不行。
建武六年日食，衍上书陈八事：其一曰显文德，二曰褒武烈，三曰修旧功，四曰招俊杰，五曰明好恶，六曰简法令，七曰差秩禄，八曰抚边境。
书奏，帝将召见。
初，衍为狼孟长，以罪摧陷大姓令狐略。是时，略为司空长史，谗之于尚书令王护、尚书周生丰曰： 衍所以求见者，欲毁君也。
护等惧之，即共排间，衍遂不得入。
后卫尉阴兴、新阳侯阴就以外戚贵显，深敬重衍，衍遂与之交结，是由为诸王所聘请，寻为司隶从事。
帝惩西京外戚宾客，故皆以法绳之，大者抵死徙，其余至贬黜。
衍由此得罪，尝自诣狱，有诏赦不问。
西归故郡，闭门自保，不也复与亲故通。
translation: 
Bao Yong sent his younger brother Bao Sheng and son-in-law Zhang Shu to lure him back to Niecheng County. Zhang Shu's family was in Shangdang, and his family was imprisoned in Tianyi.
He also wrote a letter to persuade Bao Yong to surrender, but Bao Yong never responded. From then on, Bao Yong and Tianyi had a grudge.
Tianyi, named Boyu, was born in Feng Yi, and later served as the prefect of Yuyang.
Bao Yong and Feng Yan knew for sure that Gengshi was dead, so they jointly stopped their troops and surrendered to Hanoi without any hats.
The emperor complained that Feng Yan was unwilling to surrender. Bao Yong was able to atone for his sins by performing meritorious service, so he was appointed, while Feng Yan was dismissed.
Bao Yong said to Feng Yan: In the past, Emperor Gaozu pardoned Ji Bu's sins and killed Ding Gu, who had contributed to him.
Now that I have met the Ming Lord, what else do I have to worry about?
Feng Yan said: I remember "Warring States Policy" tells about a man who teased his neighbor's wife and teased his eldest wife. The eldest wife cursed him and teased his younger wife, and the younger wife agreed. Later, when his neighbor died, he married his eldest wife.
Someone asked him: Didn’t the eldest wife scold you?
One person said: When I'm at someone else's house, I want her to agree to my flirting, but when I'm at my house, I want her to scold the person who teases and seduces her.
Destiny is hard to know, but the way of humanity is easy to follow. Are ministers who keep the way still afraid of death?
Soon, the emperor appointed Feng Yan as the Quyang Order, killed the big thief Guo Sheng and others, and surrendered more than 5,000 of them. They were awarded officials and titles based on merit. However, they were slandered and slandered, so the rewards were not implemented.
There was a solar eclipse in the sixth year of Jianwu, and Feng Yan wrote a petition asking for eight things: first, to show literary virtue, second, to praise military heroes, third, to repair old merits, fourth, to recruit heroes, fifth, to clarify likes and dislikes, sixth, to simplify laws, seventh, to improve rank and salary, and eighth, to care for borders.
After the book was written, Emperor Guangwu prepared to summon him.
At first, when Feng Yan was the magistrate of Langmeng County, he punished Linghu Luo for his crimes. At this time, Linghu Luo became the chief minister of Sikong, and said to Shangshu Ling Wang Hu and Shangshu Zhou Shengfeng: Feng Yan asked for help because he wanted to slander you.
Wang Hu and others were afraid, so they united to exclude Feng Yan. Therefore, Feng Yan could not be received by Guangwu.
Later, Weiwei Yinxing and Xinyang Houyin became rich and distinguished because of their relatives, and they deeply respected Feng Yan. Feng Yan made friends with them and was hired by the kings. Soon he became a minister.
Later, Guangwu punished his relatives and guests in Xijing, and most of them were brought to justice. The most serious ones were even put to death and relocated, while the rest were demoted.
Feng Yan was offended by this. He went to prison to plead guilty, but was pardoned by an imperial edict.
Feng Yan then returned to his hometown in the west and closed the door to protect himself. He did not dare to interact with his relatives and old friends again.


