Chunk 0: 
original: 
高祖三王高祖八男：丁贵嫔生昭明太子统，太宗简文皇帝，庐陵威王续；阮修容生世祖孝元皇帝；吴淑媛生豫章王综；董淑仪生南康简王绩；丁充华生邵陵携王纶；葛修容生武陵王纪。
综及纪别有传。
南康简王绩，字世谨，高祖第四子。
天监八年，封南康郡王，邑二千户。
出为轻车将军，领石头戍军事。
十年，迁使持节、都督南徐州诸军事、南徐州刺史，进号仁威将军。
绩时年七岁，主者有受货，洗改解书，长史王僧孺弗之觉，绩见而辄诘之，便即时首服，众咸叹其聪警。
十六年，征为宣毅将军、领石头戍军事。
十七年，出为使持节、都督南、北兗、徐、青、冀五州诸军事、南兗州刺史，在州著称。
寻有诏征还，民曹嘉乐等三百七十人诣阙上表，称绩尤异一十五条，乞留州任，优诏许之，进号北中郎将。
普通四年，征为侍中、云麾将军，领石头戍军事。
五年，出为使持节、都督江州诸军事、江州刺史。
丁董淑仪忧，居丧过礼，高祖手诏勉之，使摄州任，固求解职，乃征授安右将军、领石头戍军事，寻加护军。
羸瘠弗堪视事。
大通三年，因感病薨于任，时年二十五。
赠侍中、中军将军、开府仪同三司，给鼓吹一部。
谥曰简。
绩寡玩好，少嗜欲，居无仆妾，躬事约俭，所有租秩，悉寄天府。
及薨后，府有南康国无名钱数千万。
子会理嗣，字长才。
少聪慧，好文史。
年十一而孤，特为高祖所爱，衣服礼秩与正王不殊。
年十五，拜轻车将军、湘州刺史，又领石头戍军事。
迁侍中，兼领军将军。
寻除宣惠将军、丹阳尹，置佐史。
出为使持节、都督南、北兗、北徐、青、冀、东徐、谯七州诸军事、平北将军、南兗州刺史。
太清元年，督众军北讨，至彭城，为魏师所败，退归本镇。
translation: 
Emperor Gaozu had eight sons: Ding Guibin gave birth to Prince Zhaoming, Emperor Taizong Jianwen, King Wei of Luling Xu, Ruan Xiurong gave birth to Shizu Xiaoyuan Huangtong, Wu Shuyuan gave birth to Wang Zong of Yuzhang, Dong Shuyi gave birth to Wang Ji of Nankang Jian, Ding Chonghua gave birth to Shaoling and Wang Lun, and Ge Xiurong gave birth to King Ji of Wuling.
There are other legends about Jiao Zhong and Lu Qi.
Xiao Ji, the king of Nankang Jian, whose courtesy name was Shijin, was the fourth son of Emperor Gaozu.
In the eighth year of Tianjian's reign, he was granted the title of King of Nankang County and was granted the title of 2,000 households.
He served as General of Light Vehicles and led the military garrison with stones.
In the tenth year, he was moved to the post of envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of all military affairs in South Xuzhou, governor of South Xuzhou, and was promoted to General Renwei.
Xiao Ji was only seven years old at the time. When the person in charge was receiving the goods, he changed the letter he sent. Wang Sengru, the chief historian, did not notice it. When Xiao Ji saw it, he immediately blamed him. The person in charge surrendered himself and pleaded guilty. Everyone praised him for being smart and alert.
In the 16th year, he was appointed General Xuanyi and led the Shitou garrison.
In the seventeenth year, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the five states of Nan Yan, Bei Yan, Xu, Qing, and Ji. He was also the governor of Nan Yanzhou and became famous in the state.
Not long after, Shao ordered the army to return to the capital. Cao Jiale, a commoner, and 370 other people went to the court to express their gratitude to Xiao Ji for his outstanding political achievements.
In ordinary four years, he was recruited as Shizhong and Yunhui General, leading the stone garrison army.
In the fifth year, he served as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Jiangzhou, and governor of Jiangzhou.
When his mother Dong Shuyi passed away, mourning was strictly in accordance with etiquette. Gaozu Shou Shao persuaded him to act as the governor of Jiangzhou. He insisted on being relieved of his post, so he was conscripted into General An You and led the Shitou garrison. Soon he was added to the guard army.
A weak person cannot manage government affairs.
In the third year of Datong, he died in office due to illness at the age of twenty-five.
As a posthumous gift to the Shizhong, the General of the Central Army, and the three divisions of Kaifu Yitong, I gave him a piece of propaganda.
Mi's name is Jian.
Xiao Ji had few pleasures and hobbies, and few hobbies and desires. He had no servants or concubines at home. He handled matters personally, was simple and frugal, and sent all his land, taxes, and salaries to the court's warehouse.
After his death, there were tens of millions of unnamed money from Nankang in the warehouse.
The son will be responsible for the title of heir, and the word is long and talented.
Young and intelligent, he likes literature and history.
His father died when he was only eleven years old, and he was loved by his great ancestor. His clothes and ceremonial salary were no different from those of King Zheng.
At the age of fifteen, he became a general of light chariots and governor of Xiangzhou, and also led the stone garrison army.
He was moved to serve as a minister and also as a leading general.
Soon, in addition to General Xuanhui and Danyang Yin, he was appointed an assistant historian.
He served as an envoy to control the military affairs of the seven states of Nanyan, Beiyan, Beixu, Yi, Ji, Saitu, and Long. He was also the general of Pingbei and the governor of Yimanzhou.
In the first year of the Taiqing Dynasty, the governor led the army to attack the north and reached Pengcheng. He was defeated by the Wei army and retreated to Yanzhou in the south.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
二年，侯景围京邑，会理治严将入援，会北徐州刺史封山侯正表将应其兄正德，外托赴援，实谋袭广陵，会理击破之。
方得进路，台城陷，侯景遣前临江太守董绍先以高祖手敕召会理，其僚佐咸劝距之。会理曰： 诸君心事，与我不同，天子年尊，受制贼虏，今有手敕召我入朝，臣子之心，岂得违背。
且远处江北，功业难成，不若身赴京都，图之肘腋。
吾计决矣。
遂席卷而行，以城输绍先。
至京，景以为侍中、司空、兼中书令。
虽在寇手，每思匡复，与西乡侯劝等潜布腹心，要结壮士。
时范阳祖皓斩绍先，据广陵城起义，期以会理为内应。
皓败，辞相连及，景矫诏免会理官，犹以白衣领尚书令。
是冬，景往晋熙，景师虚弱，会理复与柳敬礼谋之。
敬礼曰： 举大事必有所资，今无寸兵，安可以动？
会理曰： 湖熟有吾旧兵三千余人，昨来相知，克期响集，听吾日定，便至京师。
计贼守兵不过千人耳，若大兵外攻，吾等内应，直取王伟，事必有成。
纵景后归，无能为也。
敬礼曰 善 ，因赞成之。
于时百姓厌贼，咸思用命，自丹阳至于京口，靡不同之。
后事不果，与弟祁阳侯通理并遇害。
通理字仲宣，位太子洗马，封祁阳侯。
通理弟乂理，字季英，会理第六弟也。
生十旬而简王薨，至三岁而能言，见内人分散，涕泣相送，乂理问其故，或曰： 此简王宫人，丧毕去尔。
乂理便号泣，悲不自胜，诸宫人见之，莫不伤感，为之停者三人焉。
服阕后，见高祖，又悲泣不自胜。
高祖为之流涕，谓左右曰： 此儿大必为奇士。
translation: 
In the second year, Hou Jing besieged the capital, and Hui was organizing his gear and preparing to send in reinforcements. At this time, Hou Zhengbiao, the governor of Northern Xuzhou, Fengshan, was about to join forces with his brother Zhenglong and made excuses to come to the rescue. He actually wanted to attack Lu Duo, but He Xi defeated him and was able to advance.
When Taicheng fell, Hou Jing sent Dong Niuxian, the former prefect of Linjiang, to summon Heli by directing his hand. His subordinates all advised him to refuse the call. Huili said: "Your thoughts are different from mine. The emperor's life is noble and controlled by thieves. Now that I have been summoned to the court by hand, how can I violate my heart?"
Moreover, far away from Jiangbei, it is difficult to achieve achievements. It is better to go to Kyoto and make plans for the emperor.
My plan has been decided.
So he set out with all the armaments and handed over Nan Yanzhou to Yu Shaoxian.
When he arrived in Beijing, Hou Jing appointed him as Shizhong, Sikong, and Zhongshuling.
Although he served under the bandits, he always wanted to recover. Together with Hou Quan of Xixiang and others, he secretly deployed his cronies and invited warriors.
During the Han Dynasty, Tong Kuangbi, a native of Fanyang, beheaded Niu Xian and occupied Lubao Ball to revolt, hoping that He Yi would be an internal response.
Zu Hao failed and confessed his resignation to Huili. Hou Jing falsely claimed that the imperial edict had removed him from the position of Huili, but he still received the Shangshu order as a commoner.
In winter, when Jing went to Jinxi, the troops in the capital were weak, so Helifu and Liu Jingli planned to raise an army.
He saluted and said: To hold a major event, you must have the resources to support it. How can we act now that we have no troops?
Heli said: There are more than 3,000 old soldiers of mine in Hushu. Yesterday someone came to tell me that they would gather accordingly. When they heard that the date for my army was set, they went to the capital.
It is estimated that the thieves' garrison is no more than a thousand people. If the soldiers attack outside, we should cooperate inside and take Wang Wei directly. Everything will be successful.
Even if Hou Jing returns later, he will not be able to accomplish anything.
He saluted and said "yes", so he agreed to raise troops.
At this time, the people were disgusted with thieves and wanted to obey orders. From Danyang to Jingkou, no one disagreed.
Later, the matter failed, and he tried to reconcile with his younger brother Qiyanghou and was killed.
Tongli's courtesy name was Zhongxuan, his position was Prince Xima, and he was granted the title of Marquis of Qiyang.
Tongli's younger brother Yili, courtesy name Jiying, was Huili's sixth younger brother.
One hundred days after he was born, King Jian died. At the age of three, he had an idea. When he saw his wife dispersed and left, they bid farewell to each other with tears. Yili asked about the reason. Someone said: These are the people in King Jian's palace who left after the funeral.
Giri cried, unable to control himself with grief. When the people in the palace saw it, they all felt sad because there were three people left like this.
After the period of mourning was over, when he saw Gaozu, he cried again and could not control himself.
Emperor Gaozu burst into tears because of this, and said to the people around him: "This son will definitely become a wonderful man when he grows up."


Chunk 2: 
original: 
大同八年，封安乐县侯，邑五百户。
乂理性慷慨，慕立功名，每读书见忠臣烈士，未尝不废卷叹曰： 一生之内，当无愧古人。
博览多识，有文才，尝祭孔文举墓，并为立碑，制文甚美。
太清中，侯景内寇，乂理聚宾客数百，轻装赴南兗州，随兄会理入援，恒亲当矢石，为士卒先。
及城陷，又随会理还广陵，因入齐为质，乞师。
行二日，会侯景遣董绍先据广陵，遂追会理，因为所获。
绍先防之甚严，不得与兄弟相见，乃伪请先还京，得入辞母，谓其姊安固公主曰： 事既如此，岂可合家受毙。
兄若至，愿为言之，善为计自勉，勿赐以为念也。
家国阽危，虽死非恨，前途亦思立效，但未知天命何如耳！
至京师，以魏降人元贞立节忠正，可以托孤，乃以玉柄扇赠之。
贞怪其故，不受。
乂理曰： 后当见忆，幸勿推辞。
会祖皓起兵，乂理奔长芦，收军得千余人。
其左右有应贼者，因间劫会理，其众遂骇散，为景所害，时年二十一。
元贞始悟其前言，往收葬焉。
庐陵威王续，字世，高祖第五子，天监八年，封庐陵郡王，邑二千户。
十年，拜轻车将军、南彭城琅邪太守。
十三年，转会稽太守。
十六年，为都督江州诸军事、云麾将军、江州刺史。
普通元年，征为宣毅将军，领石头戍军事。
续少英果，膂力绝人，驰射游猎，应发命中。
高祖常叹曰： 此我之任城也。
尝与临贺王正德及胡贵通、赵伯超等驰射于高祖前，续冠于诸人，高祖大悦。
translation: 
In the eighth year of Datong, he was granted the title of Marquis of Anle County, with a settlement of 500 households.
Cong Ling had a generous temperament and longed for fame. Whenever he read about the deeds of loyal ministers and martyrs, he would never stop closing the book and exclaiming: "These people's lives will not feel ashamed in front of the ancients."
He was well-read and talented in literature. He once worshiped Kong Wenju's tomb and erected a stele for him. The inscription on the stele was extremely beautiful.
During the Taiqing period, Hou Jingnei invaded the capital. Yili gathered hundreds of guests and rushed to Nanyanzhou with light equipment. He joined his brother Huili to aid the court. He often resisted the arrows personally and was always in front of the soldiers in charge.
After the city fell, he followed Heli back to Luchang, wanting to take him as a hostage and begging for help.
On the second day of the journey, Hou Jing sent Dong Shao to occupy Guangling first, and then hunted down Huili, and Congli was captured.
Niu was very well guarded, and he could not see his brothers, so he occasionally asked to return to the capital first so that he could say goodbye to his mother. He said to his sister, Princess Angu: "Now that things have come to this, how can we let the whole family be killed."
If my brother comes back, I hope you can tell him on my behalf, let him think of a plan and work hard to do it, and stop missing me.
My family and country are in danger, so I don’t feel resentful if I sacrifice my life for it. I also want to contribute to the country in the future, but I don’t know what my destiny will be.
When he arrived in the capital, he thought that Yuan Zhen, a native of the Liang Dynasty who had surrendered to Wei, was loyal and upright, and valued honor and integrity. He could let him collect his body after his death, so he gave him a fan with a jade handle.
Yuan Zhen felt strange about the gift, so he did not accept it.
Giri said: I will understand later, I hope you won’t refuse.
At this time, Zu Hao raised troops, and Yili also rushed to Changlu, recruiting more than a thousand troops.
There was a traitor beside Yili who took the opportunity to kidnap him. The soldiers he had gathered dispersed in fright, and he was killed by Hou Jing at the age of twenty-one.
Only then did Yuan Zhen realize his previous intentions and went to collect his body and bury him.
King Wei of Luling was named Shixin and was the fifth son of Emperor Gaozu. In the eighth year of Tianjian's reign, he was granted the title of King of Luling County and was granted the title of 2,000 households in the town.
In the tenth year, he was awarded the title of General Qingche and Governor Langxie of Nanpeng City.
In the thirteenth year, he was transferred to the post of governor of Kuaiji.
In the 16th year, he served as the governor of Liaoye's military affairs, general Yunhui, and governor of Jiangzhou.
In the first year of Pongyang, General Xuanyi was recruited to lead the stone garrison army.
When Xiao Xu was young, he acted bravely and decisively, with superhuman physical strength. He could shoot arrows on horseback and go hunting with perfect accuracy.
Emperor Gaozu often praised and said: This is my family's Rencheng.
Zeng Yu came to congratulate Wang Zhengde, Hu Guitong, Tang Bochao and others on horseback and shoot arrows in front of Gaozu. Xiao Xu ranked first, Gaozu was very happy.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
三年，为使持节、都督雍、梁、秦、沙四州诸军事、西中郎将、雍州刺史。
七年，加宣毅将军。
中大通二年，又为使持节、都督雍、梁、秦、沙四州诸军事、平北将军、宁蛮校尉、雍州刺史，给鼓吹一部。
续多聚马仗，畜养骁雄，金帛内盈，仓廪外实。
四年，迁安北将军。
大同元年，为使持节、都督江州诸军事、安南将军、江州刺史。
三年，征为护军将军、领石头戍军事。
五年，为骠骑将军、开府仪同三司。
又出为使持节、都督荆、郢、司、雍、南、北秦、梁、巴、华九州诸军事、荆州刺史。
中大同二年，薨于州，时年四十四。
赠司空、散骑常侍、骠骑大将军，鼓吹一部，谥曰威。
长子安嗣。
邵陵携王纶，字世调，高祖第六子也。
少聪颖，博学善属文，尤工尺牍。
天监十三年，封邵陵郡王，邑二千户。
出为宁远将军、琅邪、彭城二郡太守，迁轻车将军、会稽太守。
十八年，征为信威将军。
普通元年，领石头戍军事，寻为江州刺史。
五年，以西中郎将权摄南兗州，坐事免官夺爵。
七年，拜侍中。
大通元年，复封爵，寻加信威将军，置佐史。
中大通元年，为丹阳尹。
四年，为侍中、宣惠将军、扬州刺史。
以侵渔细民，少府丞何智通以事启闻，纶知之，令客戴子高于都巷刺杀之。
智通子诉于阙下，高祖令围纶第，捕子高，纶匿之，竟不出。
坐免为庶人。
顷之，复封爵。
大同元年，为侍中、云麾将军。
七年，出为使持节、都督郢、定、霍、司四州诸军事、平西将军、郢州刺史，迁为安前将军、丹阳尹。
中大同元年，出为镇东将军、南徐州刺史。
太清二年，进位中卫将军、开府仪同三司。
侯景构逆，加征讨大都督，率众讨景。
translation: 
In the third year, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Yong, Liang, Qin and Shazhou, general of Xizhonglang, and governor of Yizhou.
In the seventh year, he was appointed General Xuanyi.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Yong, Liang, Qin and Shazhou, general of Pingbei, captain of Ningman, governor of Yongzhou, and advocated for the first department.
Xiao Xu collected many weapons, raised fine horses, filled the interior with money and goods, and filled the warehouse outside with food.
Four years later, he was transferred to General Anbei.
In the first year of Datong, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Jiangzhou, general Annan, and governor of Jiangzhou.
Three years later, he was recruited as the general of the army guard and the leader of the military seal.
In the fifth year, he served as General of Hussars and the Third Division of Kaifu Yitong.
He also served as an envoy to control the military affairs of Jingzhou, Ying, Si, Yong, Southern Qin, Northern Qin, Liang, Ba, and Hua Jiuzhou, and was the governor of Jingzhou.
In the second year of Zhongda Tong, he died in Yuzhou at the age of forty-four.
As a posthumous gift to Sikong, the regular servant of Sanqi, and the general of hussar, they were promoted to one department, and the Mi trumpet was regarded as awe-inspiring.
The eldest son Xiao An succeeded.
Shaoling, with the courtesy name Shidiao, Wang Xiaolun, was the sixth son of Emperor Gaozu.
He was very smart when he was young, had outstanding talents, was erudite, wrote beautiful articles, and was better at writing letters.
In the thirteenth year of Tianjian's reign, he was granted the title of Prince of Shaoling County and was granted the title of 2,000 households in the town.
He served as general of Ningyuan and prefect of Langye and Pengcheng counties, and moved to general of Qingche and prefect of Kuaiji.
In the eighteenth year, General Ren Xinwei was recruited.
In the first year of Pongyang, he led the Shitou garrison army and soon became the governor of Hongzhou.
In the fifth year, Yixi Zhonglang will act as the governor of southern Yanzhou. If he is found guilty, he will be dismissed from his official position and his title will be removed.
Seven years. Pay homage to Shizhong.
In the first year of Datong, the title of nobility was restored, and soon he was appointed General Xinwei and appointed subordinate officials.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he was appointed Danyang Yin.
In four years, he served as Shizhong, General Xuanhui, and Governor of Yangzhou.
Because he had embezzled civilian property, the Shaofu Prime Minister He Zhitong reported the matter. Xiao Lun found out about it and ordered his retainer Dai Zigao to assassinate him in the alley of the capital.
Zhitong's son complained to the emperor about this, and Emperor Gaozu ordered people to surround Xiao Lun's house and arrest Dai Zichan. Xiao Jian hid him but couldn't catch him.
Corun was dismissed from his post and became a civilian because of this incident.
Soon, the title was restored.
In the first year of Datong, he was appointed as Shizhong and General Yunhui.
In the seventh year, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Ying, Xuan, Huo and Genzhou, general of Pingxi, governor of Yingzhou, and moved to general Anqian and Danyang Yin.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he served as the general who suppressed Cambodia and the governor of southern Xuzhou.
In the second year of Taiqing, he was promoted to General of Zhongwei and the Third Division of Kaifu Yitong.
Baoliang launched a rebellion, appointed Gai Qiang to conquer the governor, and led all the troops to attack and punish him.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
将发，高祖诫曰： 侯景小竖，颇习行阵，未可以一战即殄，当以岁月图之。
纶次钟离，景已度采石。
纶乃昼夜兼道，游军入赴。
济江中流，风起，人马溺者十一二。
遂率宁远将军西豊公大春、新淦公大成等，步骑三万，发自京口。
将军赵伯超曰： 若从黄城大道，必与贼遇，不如径路直指钟山，出其不意。
纶从之。
众军奄至，贼徒大骇，分为三道攻纶，纶与战，大破之，斩首千余级。
翌日，贼又来攻，相持日晚，贼稍引却，南安侯骏以数十骑驰之。
贼回拒骏，骏部乱。贼因逼大军，军遂溃。
纶至钟山，众裁千人，贼围之，战又败，乃奔还京口。
三年春，纶复与东扬州刺史大连等入援，至于骠骑洲。
进位司空。
台城陷，奔禹穴。
大宝元年，纶至郢州，刺史南平王恪让州于纶，纶不受，乃上纶为假黄钺、都督中外诸军事。
纶于是置百官，改厅事为正阳殿。
数有灾怪，纶甚恶之。
时元帝围河东王誉于长沙既久，内外断绝，纶闻其急，欲往救之，为军粮不继，遂止。
乃与世祖书曰：
伏以先朝圣德，孝治天下，九亲雍睦，四表无怨，诚为国政，实亦家风。
唯余与尔，同奉神训，宜敦旨喻，共承无改。
且道之斯美，以和为贵，况天时地利，不及人和，岂可手足肱支，自相屠害。
日者闻誉专情失训，以幼陵长，湘、峡之内，遂至交锋。
方等身遇乱兵，毙于行阵，殒于吴局。
方此非冤，闻问号怛，惟增摧愤，念以兼悼，当何可称。
吾在州所居遥隔，虽知其状，未喻所然。
及届此籓，备加觌访，咸云誉应接多替，兵粮闭壅；弟教亦不悛，故兴师以伐。
誉未识大体，意断所行，虽存急难，岂知窃思。
translation: 
Before setting off, Emperor Gaozu told him: "This villain Mi is very familiar with the formations of war. It is impossible to eliminate him in just one battle. We should consider the long term."
When Xiao Lun arrived at Zhongli, Hou Jing had already passed the quarrying site.
Xiao Lun then marched day and night, without setting up fixed defensive positions, and led mobile troops to catch up.
When a strong wind blew from the Yangtze River to the center of the river, one or two tenths of the people and horses were drowned.
So he led Ningyuan generals Xifeng Gong Dachun, Xingan Gong Dacheng and others, and led 30,000 infantry and cavalry to set out from Beijing.
General Tsai Bochao said: If you take Dong Yue Road, you will definitely encounter thieves. It is better to take a small road straight to Zhongshan to catch them by surprise.
Lu Cang obeyed.
The soldiers suddenly appeared. The thieves were frightened and divided into three groups to attack Xiao Lun's army. Xiao Lun's army fought and defeated him, killing more than a thousand people.
The next day, the bandit army came to attack again. The two armies were in a stalemate until dusk. The bandit army retreated slightly, and Nan'an Hou Gaimin led dozens of cavalry in pursuit.
The traitors attacked Xiao Jun, and Xiao Shu's troops were in chaos. As a result, the traitors approached the army and the army was defeated.
When Lu lost to Zhongye, his army only had more than a thousand men. The thieves besieged him again. Xiao Lun was defeated again and fled back to Jingkou.
In the spring of the third year, Xiao Lun and Shu Yangzhou governor Dalian and others went to aid the imperial court and arrived at Piusizhou.
Advance to Sikong.
Taicheng fell and fled to Yu's cave.
In the first year of Dashi, Xiao Lun arrived in Yingzhou. Xiao Ke, the governor of Nanping, wanted to cede Yingzhou to Xiao Lun. Xiao Lun refused, so he recommended Xiao Lun to Xiao Lun and appointed him as the commander-in-chief of the Chinese and foreign military forces.
Xiao Lun then set up a hundred palaces and changed the hall to Zhengyang Palace.
Xiao Lun was disgusted by the many disasters and strange things that happened.
At that time, Emperor Yuan had been besieging Xiao Yu, the king of Hedong, in Changsha for a long time, and internal and external communication was cut off. Xiao Lun heard that Xiao Yu's situation was urgent and wanted to rescue him, but he stopped because of insufficient military rations.
So he wrote to Shizu saying:
With the holy virtues of the previous emperors, he governed the world with filial piety, and all relatives lived in harmony. People from all over the world have no resentment. This is how the country should be governed and how our family tradition should be.
Only you and I listen to the emperor's teachings. We should encourage each other to abide by the edict and promise not to repent.
Moreover, at the highest level of Tao, harmony is valued, and possession of the right time and place is not as important as human relations. Are your brothers killing each other?
In the past, I heard that Xiao Yu acted arbitrarily, violated the teachings, and bullied his elders with his juniors. A war broke out in the Xiangjiang and Xiajiang rivers.
When Fang and others participated in the battle and encountered rebels, they were killed in the battle formation and lost their lives in Wu. It was not unjust at this time.
The voices were wailing and crying, which added to the grief and indignation, and they remembered sadly and said what good things could be said.
I am in Yingzhou, which is far away from here. Although I know what happened, I don't know why it happened.
When I came here, I consulted with various parties, and they all said that Xiao Yu should take over many positions and not send troops and food. You educated him and he would not correct himself, so you raised an army to attack him.
Xiao Yu didn't understand the general situation and made arbitrary decisions. Even if there was an emergency, he would not know how to think about it.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
不能礼争，复以兵来。
萧墙兴变，体亲成敌，一朝至此，能不鸣呼。
既有书问，云雨传流，噂沓其间，委悉无因详究。
方今社稷危耻，创巨痛深，人非禽虫，在知君父。
即日大敌犹强，天仇未雪，余尔昆季，在外三人，如不匡难，安用臣子。
唯应剖心尝胆，泣血枕戈，感誓苍穹，凭灵宗祀，昼谋夕计，共思匡复。
至于其余小忿，或宜宽贷。
诚复子憾须臾，将奈国冤未逞。
正当轻重相推，小大易夺，遣无益之情，割下流之悼，弘豁以理，通识勉之。
今已丧钟山，复诛犹子，将非扬汤止沸，吞冰疗寒。
若以誉之无道，近远同疾，弟复效尤，攸非独罪。
幸宽于众议，忍以事宁。
如使外寇未除，家祸仍构，料今访古，未或弗亡。
夫征战之理，义在克胜；至于骨肉之战，愈胜愈酷，捷则非功，败则有丧，劳兵损义，亏失多矣。
侯景之军所以未窥江外者，正为籓屏盘固，宗镇强密。
若自相鱼肉，是代景行师。景便不劳兵力，坐致成效，丑徒闻此，何快如之！
又庄铁小竖作乱，久挟观宁、怀安二侯，以为名号，当阳有事克掣，殊废备境。第闻征伐，复致分兵，便是自于瓜州至于湘、雍，莫非战地，悉以劳师。
侯景卒承虚藉衅，浮江豕突，岂不表裹成虞，首尾难救？
可为寒心，其事已切。
弟若苦陷洞庭，兵戈不戢，雍州疑迫，何以自安？
必引进魏军，以求形援。
侯景事等内痈，西秦外同瘤肿。
直置关中，已为咽气，况复贪狼难测，势必侵吞。
弟若不安，家国去矣。
translation: 
If you can't compete with him for courtesy, you send troops.
There are internal changes, and brothers become enemies. Once this happens, how can one not feel sad.
There have been books and inquiries, favors have been passed down, and discussions have been mixed, and everyone knows that there is no way to go into detail.
Today's country is in danger and humiliation, and the pain is profound. What makes people different from birds and insects is that they know how to serve their king and father.
The enemy has been very strong these days, and the enemy has not yet avenged it. I, you, my brother, and three of us are out there. If we don’t save the country from danger, where else can we be needed?
We should only meet each other sincerely, weep blood on the pillow, swear to the sky, rely on the gods and ancestors, plan day and night, and think about recovery together.
As for the rest of the minor grudges, perhaps they should be forgiven.
If you continue to hate for a moment, you will not be able to do anything about the unjust injustice of the country.
It is time to change the importance of things, re-determine the size of things, get rid of useless emotions, let go of the grief of losing your son, and be magnanimous and open-minded with reason and common sense.
Now that Zhongshan has been lost and his son has been killed, there is no need to do things like pouring soup to stop boiling or swallowing ice to cure cold.
If everyone hates Xiao Yu because of his immorality, and you imitate them, it will not be his fault alone.
I hope that the public will be lenient to him and that patience will calm the conflicts.
If the foreign invaders are not eliminated and domestic troubles still occur, looking at the present and the past, no country will survive.
The principle of war is to win the battle; as for the war between flesh and blood, the more victorious it is, the more cruel it becomes. Victory is not merit, and failure is mourning. Toiling the army and damaging morality is a huge loss.
The reason why Hou Jing's army did not dare to peek into the south of the Yangtze River was precisely because the fence was entrenched and the brothers of the same clan were closely guarded.
If we fight against each other, we will send troops for Hou Jing. Hou Jing will not have to use his troops and reap the results. The ugly man will be very satisfied when he hears this.
Another villain, Zhuang Tie, created a rebellion and held the Marquis of Guanning and Huai'an hostage for a long time. Under their banner, when there was a war, he drew troops from the side and extremely abolished the border defense forces. When he heard that troops were to be sent out for conquest, he dispersed his troops and turned everything from Guazhou to Xiang and Yong into battlefields, causing all the troops to be exhausted.
Hou Jing finally accepted the false provocation and crossed the river on a rampage. Wouldn't it have created a situation where he was surrounded by worries and it was difficult to rescue him from the beginning to the end?
It's chilling, the matter is already very urgent.
If my brother resolutely captures Dongting and does not stop the war, Xiao Cha in Yongzhou will also suspect that you want to invade him. How will he feel at ease?
Wei's army must be brought in for assistance.
Hou Jing's incident was like a malignant abscess growing inside himself, and the reinforcements from the Western Wei Dynasty were like tumors growing outside his body.
The soldiers of the Western Wei Dynasty were stationed in Guanzhong, and their throats were blocked by him. What's more, their greedy hearts are unpredictable and they are bound to invade inwards.
If my brother feels uneasy and attacks Dongting, his family and country will be destroyed.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
吾非有深鉴，独能弘理，正是采藉风谣，博参物论，咸以为疑，皆欲解体故耳。
自我国五十许年，恩格玄穹，德弥赤县，虽有逆难，未乱邕熙。
溥天率土，忠臣愤慨，比屋罹祸，忠义奋发，无不抱甲负戈，冲冠裂眦，咸欲事刂刃于侯景腹中，所须兵主唱耳。
今人皆乐死，赴者如流。
弟英略振远，雄伯当代，唯德唯艺，资文资武，拯溺济难，朝野咸属，一匡九合，非弟而谁？
岂得自违物望，致招群！
其间患难，具如所陈。
斯理皎然，无劳请箸；验之以实，宁须确引。
吾所以间关险道，出自东川，政谓上游诸籓，必连师狎至，庶以残命，预在行间；及到九江，安北兄遂溯流更上，全由饩馈悬断，卒食半菽，阻以菜色，无因进取。
侯景方延假息，复缓诛刑，信增号愤，启处无地。
计潇湘谷粟，犹当红委，若阻弟严兵，唯事交切，至于运转，恐无暇发遣。
即日万心慊望，唯在民天，若遂等西河，时事殆矣！
必希令弟豁照兹途，解汨川之围，存社稷之计，使其运输粮储，应赡军旅，庶协力一举，指日宁泰。
宗庙重安，天下清复，推弟之功，岂非幸甚。
吾才懦兵寡，安能为役，所寄令弟，庶得申情，朝闻夕死，万殒何恨。
聊陈闻见，幸无怪焉。
临纸号迷，诸失次绪。
世祖复书，陈河东有罪，不可解围之状。
纶省书流涕曰： 天下之事，一至于斯！
左右闻之，莫不掩泣。
于是大修器甲，将讨侯景。
元帝闻其强盛，乃遣王僧辩帅舟师一万以逼纶，纶将刘龙武等降僧辩，纶军溃，遂与子踬等十余人轻舟走武昌。
translation: 
I don't have deep insights, I just can spread the truth. I just collected rumors, extensively listened to people's comments, and found them suspicious. These are the strategies to disintegrate.
Over the past fifty years since the founding of our country, we have been grateful to heaven and have spread virtue throughout the country. Although adversities have occurred, they have not destroyed the country's peaceful and prosperous era.
In the territory of the whole world, loyal ministers are angry, and neighbors are in trouble. Everyone is loyal and loyal, carrying armor and weapons on their backs. They are furious, their eyes are split with anger, and they all want to insert their swords into Hou Jing's belly. All they need is the advice of the commander.
Now people are willing to die, and the number of people participating is like water.
My brilliant strategy shocked the distant world and dominated the contemporary world. Your virtues and arts, your literature and martial arts can save lives and help people in trouble. The government and the public belong to you. The princes of the Nine Harmonies can rule the world. Who but my brother can do that?
How can you go against public expectations and incur complaints and slander from everyone!
The difficult situations are all as I have described.
This truth is very clear and needs no elaboration. The tests are all true and no need to be precise.
The reason why I crossed the dangerous road of Jianguan and came out from Saichuan was to tell the kings in the upper reaches of Kenjiang that they must unite in close relations to send troops and spend the remaining years of my life in the army. When I reached Jiujiang, Brother Anbei should go upstream because the army's food supplies would be cut off. Most of the food for the soldiers was vegetables, and they looked hungry, so they could no longer make progress.
Hou Jing took the opportunity to rest and recuperate, and his death sentence was suspended. His anger increased and he wanted to live without a place.
The grain and millet of Shuiyou should be abundantly stored. If I stop my brother Chen Bing, but the matter is urgent, as for the operation, I may not have time to distribute it.
What I sincerely hope for these days is that there will be enough food. If we wait for the transfer from Youzhou, the current situation will be dangerous.
I must hope that my worthy brother will quickly follow this approach to lift the siege and save the country, so that he can transport grain stores and supply the army. As long as we work together, the world will be peaceful and peaceful.
The ancestral temple is restored and the world is restored. Isn't it very lucky to recommend my brother for his contribution?
How can I do these things because I have so little talent? All of this depends on my virtuous brother. If I can express my feelings, I will die in the morning and die in the evening. What resentment will there be in dying ten thousand times?
Let me state my experience and hope that I will not be blamed.
When I wrote the letter, I was confused and lost order in many places.
Shizu replied and stated that the King of Hedong was guilty and the reason why the siege could not be lifted.
Lun read the letter and cried and said: Things in the world have turned out to be like this!
Everyone on the left and right didn't cry when they heard it.
So Lushu overhauled his weapons and sent out troops to conquer Zhuqiang.
Wutong heard that his army was strong, so he sent Wang Sengbian and ten thousand boatmen to attack Lu Lun. Xiao Lun, Liu Longwu and others surrendered to Wang Sengbian. Xiao Lun's army was defeated, so he fled to Wuchang by boat with his son Xiao Zhi and more than ten people.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
时纶长史韦质、司马姜律先在于外，闻纶败，驰往迎之。于是复收散卒，屯于齐昌郡，将引魏军共攻南阳。
侯景将任约闻之，使铁骑二百袭纶，纶无备，又败走定州。
定州刺史田龙祖迎纶，纶以龙祖荆镇所任，惧为所执，复归齐昌。
行至汝南，西魏所署汝南城主李素者，纶之故吏，闻纶败，开城纳之。
纶乃修浚城池，收集士卒，将攻竟陵。
西魏安州刺史马岫闻之，报于西魏，西魏遣大将军杨忠、仪同侯几通率众赴焉。二年二月，忠等至于汝南，纶婴城自守。
会天寒大雪，忠等攻不能克，死者甚众。
后李素中流矢卒，城乃陷。
忠等执纶，纶不为屈，遂害之。投于江岸，经日颜色不变，鸟兽莫敢近焉。
时年三十三。
百姓怜之，为立祠庙，后世祖追谥曰携。
长子坚，字长白。
大同元年，以例封汝南侯，邑五百户。
亦善草隶，性颇庸短。
侯景围城，坚屯太阳门，终日蒲饮，不抚军政。
吏士有功，未尝申理，疫疠所加，亦不存恤，士咸愤怨。
太清三年三月，坚书佐董勋华、白昙朗等以绳引贼登楼，城遂陷，坚遇害。
弟确，字仲正。
少骁勇，有文才。
大同二年，封为正阶侯，邑五百户，后徙封永安。
常在第中习骑射，学兵法，时人皆以为狂。
左右或以进谏，确曰： 听吾为国家破贼，使汝知之。
除秘书丞，太子中舍人。
钟山之役，确苦战，所向披靡，群虏惮之。
确每临阵对敌，意气详赡。带甲据鞍，自朝及夕，驰骤往反，不以为劳，诸将服其壮勇。
及侯景乞盟，确在外，虑为后患，启求召确入城。
translation: 
At that time, Xiao Lun's chief ministers, Wei Zhi and Sima Jianglu, were outside. When they heard that Xiao Lun was defeated, they drove their horses to meet him. Xiao Lun then gathered some scattered troops and stationed them in Qichang County, intending to introduce the Wei army to attack Nanyang together.
Hou Jing's general Ren Yue heard about this and sent two hundred cavalry to attack Lu Qiang. Dong Jian was unprepared and was defeated and fled to Xuanzhou.
Tian Longzu, the governor of Shizhou, welcomed Lu Qiang. Lu Qiang was afraid of being captured because Lungdan was in charge of Plastic Chew, so he returned to Qichang.
Traveling to Runan, Kuese, the lord of this mu city appointed by the Western Wei Dynasty, was an old subordinate who was defeated in a single defeat. Hearing that Lu Jian was defeated, he opened the city to accept him.
They built the city and gathered soldiers to attack Jingling.
Ma Xiu, the governor of Anzhou in the Western Wei Dynasty, heard about this and reported it to Xi Gong. Yousu sent generals Danggu and Yitongbaozhantong to come with their troops. Qianggu and others arrived at Dazhi, and Gai Yao personally surrounded the city and defended it.
It was cold and snowy at the time of dispatch, and Yang Zhong and others failed to attack the city, and many people died.
Later, Li Su was killed by an arrow and the city fell.
Zha Locust and others captured Lu Shou, but Dong Jian refused to yield to them, so he was killed and his body was thrown to the river bank. Xiao Lun's expression remained unchanged for many days, and no birds or animals dared to approach him.
He was thirty-three years old.
The people sympathized with him and built a temple for him. Later, Shizu gave him the title of Mi.
The eldest son Xiao Jian, named Changbai.
In the first year of Datong, he was granted the title of Marquis of Runan as usual, with a settlement of 500 households.
He is also good at cursive script and official script, and his temperament is very lazy and superficial.
Hou Jing besieged the city, and Xiao Jian was stationed at the Sun Gate. He ended up gambling and drinking, and did not care about military affairs.
Officials did not report their meritorious services, and when they contracted the plague, they were not cared for by the military and government. The soldiers were very angry.
In March of the third year of Taiqing, Xiao Jian's assistants Dong Xunhua, Bai Tanlang and others used ropes to lure thieves to the building. The city fell immediately and Xiao Jian was killed.
His younger brother Xiao Que, also named Zhongzheng.
When he was young, he was brave and talented.
In the second year of Datong, he was granted the title of Zhengzhihou, with a settlement of 500 households. Later, he was granted the title of Chengxubao.
He often practiced riding and shooting at home and learned the art of war. People at the time thought he was arrogant.
Someone on the left and right warned him bluntly. Xiao Que said: "Wait until I break thieves for the country and let you know me."
He was awarded the title of Secretary Cheng, and he was born in the prince's family.
In the battle at Zhongshan, Lu Bie fought hard and was invincible. All the captives were afraid of him.
Whenever Lu Qian faced the enemy in battle, he would be full of energy, put on armor and mount a horse, galloping back and forth from morning to night, not realizing the hard work. The generals admired his bravery.
When Qiang begged for an alliance, Lu Bing was outside. Bao Jing was afraid that Xiao Que would become a trouble in the future, so he asked to summon Xiao Que into the city.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
诏乃召确为南中郎将、广州刺史，增封二千户。
确知此盟多贰，城必沦没，因欲南奔。携王闻之，逼确使入，确犹不肯。
携王流涕谓曰： 汝欲反邪！
时台使周石珍在坐，确谓石珍曰： 侯景虽云欲去，而不解长围，以意而推，其事可见。
今召我入，未见其益也。
石珍曰： 敕旨如此，侯岂得辞？
确执意犹坚，携王大怒，谓赵伯超曰： 谯州，卿为我斩之，当赉首赴阙。
伯超挥刃眄确曰： 我识君耳，刀岂识君？
确于是流涕而出，遂入城。
及景背盟复围城，城陷，确排闼入，启高祖曰： 城已陷矣。
高祖曰： 犹可一战不？
对曰： 不可。
臣向者亲格战，势不能禁，自缒下城，仅得至此。
高祖叹曰： 自我得之，自我失之，亦复何恨。
乃使确为慰劳文。
确既出见景，景爱其膂力，恒令在左右。
后从景行，见天上飞鸢，群虏争射不中，确射之，应弦而落。
贼徒忿嫉，咸劝除之。
先是携王遣人密导确，确谓使者曰： 侯景轻佻，可一夫力致，确不惜死，正欲手刃之；但未得其便耳。
卿还启家王，愿勿以为念也。
事未遂而为贼所害。
史臣曰：自周、汉广树籓屏，固本深根；高祖之封建，将遵古制也。
南康、庐陵并以宗室之贵，据磐石之重，绩以孝著，续以勇闻。
纶聪警有才学，性险躁，屡以罪黜，及太清之乱，忠孝独存，斯可嘉矣。
translation: 
So Xiao Que was appointed as the general of Nanzhong Lang and the governor of Guangzhou under the Shaoshu Order, and he was granted the title of 2,000 additional households.
Xiao Que knew that this alliance was suspicious and the city would be destroyed. He wanted to go to the south. He led the king to find out and forced Xiao Que to enter the city.
Xiao Que still refused, and King Xie said to him in tears: "You want to rebel?"
At that time, the Taiwan envoy Zhou Shizhen was present. Xiao Que said to Shizhen: Although Hou Jing wanted to withdraw his troops, he did not lift the long siege. By inference, the alliance was very clear.
I don't see any benefit in calling me into the city now.
Shi Zhen said: "The edict is like this, how can you refuse it?"
Xiao Que insisted on his decision and was furious with the king. He said to Cao Bochao: "Qiaozhou, please behead him for me and carry his head to the palace."
Bo Chao waved his sword and looked at Xiao Que sideways and said: I know you, but does the sword know you?
Xiao Que came out with tears in his eyes and entered the city.
When Hou Jing betrayed the alliance and besieged the city again, the city fell. Xiao Que pushed open the palace gate and entered, reporting to Emperor Gaozu: The city has fallen.
Emperor Gaozu said: Can we still fight to the death?
The answer is: It’s impossible.
I have always fought in person, and the existing power cannot stop it. I can only go down the rope and go down to the city. This is the only way.
Emperor Gaozu sighed and said: The country was gained from me and lost from me, so there is nothing to regret.
So Xiao Que was asked to write a letter of condolences.
Xiao Que went out of the city to meet Hou Jing. Hou Jing loved his physical strength and often asked him to stay by his side.
Once when he was traveling with Hou Jing, he saw an eagle in the sky. The captives tried to shoot it but failed. Xiao Que shot an arrow, but the arrow fell off the eagle.
The thieves were angry and jealous of him, and they all advised Hou Jing to get rid of him.
First, he and the king sent a secret messenger to guide Xiao Que. Xiao Que said to the envoy: Hou Jing is very frivolous and one person can deal with him. Xiao Que is not afraid of death and wanted to kill him with his own hands, but he has not got the chance yet.
Qing also told the king of his family not to worry about this matter.
He was killed by thieves when he failed to get the job done.
Shi Chen said: Since the Zhou and Han dynasties, many princes and kings have been granted the title of protector of the imperial court, and they have consolidated their roots. Emperor Gaozu wanted to follow the ancient system when he enfeoffed princes.
The King of Nankang and the King of Luling occupies a rock-like position because of their noble positions in the clan. Xiao Ji is famous for his filial piety, and Xiao Xu is famous for his courage.
Police officer Xiao Luncong was talented and learned, but had a sinister and impetuous temperament. He was dismissed from his post many times due to convictions. During the war in the Taiqing Dynasty, their loyalty and filial piety survived, which is worthy of commendation.


