Chunk 0: 
original: 
秦之先，帝颛顼之苗裔孙曰女脩。
女脩织，玄鸟陨卵，女脩吞之，生子大业。
大业取少典之子，曰女华。
女华生大费，与禹平水土。
已成，帝锡玄圭。
禹受曰： 非予能成，亦大费为辅。
帝舜曰： 咨尔费，赞禹功，其赐尔皂游。
尔后嗣将大出。
乃妻之姚姓之玉女。
大费拜受，佐舜调驯鸟兽，鸟兽多驯服，是为柏翳。
舜赐姓嬴氏。
大费生子二人：一曰大廉，实鸟俗氏；二曰若木，实费氏。
其玄孙曰费昌，子孙或在中国，或在夷狄。
费昌当夏桀之时，去夏归商，为汤御，以败桀于鸣条。
大廉玄孙曰孟戏、中衍，鸟身人言。
帝太戊闻而卜之使御，吉，遂致使御而妻之。
translation: 
The ancestor of Qin was the granddaughter of a descendant of Emperor Zhuanxu, named Nuxiu.
While the nun was weaving, a swallow dropped an egg. The nun swallowed it and gave birth to a son.
Daye married a daughter of the Shaodian tribe, named Nuhua.
Nuhua gave birth to Dafei, who assisted Xia Yu in managing the soil and water.
After the flood control was successful, Emperor Shun gave Yu a black jade gui in recognition of his contribution.
Yu accepted the reward and said: "I can't control the floods alone, and it's also because I have a lot of money to serve as an assistant." Emperor Shun said: Ah!
Dafei, you helped Yu successfully control the flood! I will give you a black flag pendant.
Your descendants will prosper.
Therefore, the beautiful woman named Yao was given to him as his wife.
Da Fei worshiped and accepted the reward, and helped Shun tame birds and beasts. Many birds and beasts were tamed, and this person was Bai Yi.
Shun gave him the surname Ying.
Da Fei had two sons: one was named Dalian, the ancestor of the Niaosu family; the other was named Ruomu, the ancestor of the Fei family.
Ruomu's great-great-grandson was called Fei Chang. Some of his descendants lived in the Central Plains and some in Yidi.
When Fei Changsheng was Xia Jie, he left Xia and went to Shang. He drove for Shang Tang and defeated Xia Jie at Mingtiao.
Dalian's great-great-grandsons were named Meng Xi and Zhong Yan. Zhong Yan looked like a bird and could speak human language.
When Emperor Taiwu heard about it, he asked someone to divine it, and the result was that he would be lucky to drive the car for him, so he invited him to drive the car and marry him a wife.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
自太戊以下，中衍之后，遂世有功，以佐殷国，故嬴姓多显，遂为诸侯。
其玄孙曰中潏，在西戎，保西垂。
生蜚廉。
蜚廉生恶来。
恶来有力，蜚廉善走，父子俱以材力事殷纣。
周武王之伐纣，并杀恶来。
是时蜚廉为纣石北方，还，无所报，为坛霍太山而报，得石棺，铭曰 帝令处父不与殷乱，赐尔石棺以华氏 。
死，遂葬于霍太山。
蜚廉复有子曰季胜。
季胜生孟增。
孟增幸于周成王，是为宅皋狼。
皋狼生衡父，衡父生造父。
造父以善御幸于周缪王，得骥、温骊、骅骝、騄耳之驷，西巡狩，乐而忘归。
徐偃王作乱，造父为缪王御，长驱归周，一日千里以救乱。
缪王以赵城封造父，造父族由此为赵氏。
自蜚廉生季胜已下五世至造父，别居赵。
赵衰其后也。
恶来革者，蜚廉子也，蚤死。
有子曰女防。
女防生旁皋，旁皋生太几，太几生大骆，大骆生非子。
以造父之宠，皆蒙赵城，姓赵氏。
非子居犬丘，好马及畜，善养息之。
犬丘人言之周孝王，孝王召使主马于汧渭之闲，马大蕃息。
孝王欲以为大骆适嗣。
translation: 
Since Taiwu, the descendants of Zhongyan have served the Yin State for generations, so many of the Ying surnames have become famous in the world and have become princes.
Zhong Yan's great-great-grandson was named Zhong Yan, who lived in the Xirong area and defended Xicui.
Feilian was born in Zhongyi.
Feilian was born evil.
When evil comes, he has great strength, but Fei is honest and good at running. Father and son both serve King Zhou of Yin with their bravery.
King Wu of Zhou defeated Zhou and killed the evil ones together.
Feilian went to the north as an envoy to Zhou. When he came back, because Zhou was dead and there was no place to report, he built an altar in Huotai Mountain to report to King Zhou. During the sacrifice, he received a stone coffin with an inscription that said: The angel Chufu survived the rebellion of the Yin Dynasty and gave you the stone coffin to glorify the clan.
After Feilian died, he was buried in Huo Taishan.
Feilian also had a son named Ji Sheng.
Ji Sheng gave birth to Meng Zeng.
Meng Zeng was favored by King Zhou Cheng and was entrusted to Gaolang.
Meng Zeng gave birth to Father Heng. Hengfu gave birth to Zaofu.
Zaofu was favored by King Mu of Zhou because he was good at driving. King Mu of Zhou obtained horses named Chiji, Pirates, Hualiu, Luo'er, etc., and drove them to the west for inspections. He was so happy that he never returned.
When King Xu Yan rebelled, Zaofu drove King Mu for a long time, traveling thousands of miles in a day, and rushed back to Zhou to put down the rebellion.
King Mu granted the city of Zhao to Zaofu, and the Zaofu family was called the Zhao family from then on.
From the fifth generation of Ji Shengzhuan, the birth of Feilian, he came to Zaofu and began to live in Zhaocheng separately.
Zhao Shuai is his descendant.
Erelaige was Feilian's son and died young.
He has a son named Nvfang.
Nüfang gave birth to Pang Gao, Pang Gao gave birth to Tai Ji, Tai Ji gave birth to Da Luo, and Da Luo gave birth to Feizi.
They were all favored by Zaofu and lived in Zhaocheng with the surname Zhao.
Feizi lived in Quanqiu. He loved horses and other livestock and was good at raising and breeding them.
The people in Quanqiu told King Xiao of Zhou about this, and King Xiao summoned Feizi and asked him to manage the horses between the Mihe and Weihe rivers.
Horses were bred in large numbers. King Xiao wanted Feizi to be Daluo's heir.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
申侯之女为大骆妻，生子成为适。
申侯乃言孝王曰： 昔我先郦山之女，为戎胥轩妻，生中潏，以亲故归周，保西垂，西垂以其故和睦。
今我复与大骆妻，生适子成。
申骆重婚，西戎皆服，所以为王。
王其图之。
于是孝王曰： 昔伯翳为舜主畜，畜多息，故有土，赐姓嬴。
今其后世亦为朕息马，朕其分土为附庸。
邑之秦，使复续嬴氏祀，号曰秦嬴。
亦不废申侯之女子为骆适者，以和西戎。
秦嬴生秦侯。
秦侯立十年，卒。
生公伯。
公伯立三年，卒。
生秦仲。
秦仲立三年，周厉王无道，诸侯或叛之。
西戎反王室，灭犬丘大骆之族。
周宣王即位，乃以秦仲为大夫，诛西戎。
西戎杀秦仲。
translation: 
Marquis Shen's daughter was Da Luo's wife. She gave birth to a son, Cheng, who became his heir.
Marquis Shen said to King Xiao: "In the past, my ancestor was the daughter of Lishan. She became the wife of Xuxuan, the great-grandson of Zhongyan of the Xirong tribe, and gave birth to Zhongyi. Because she was in love with the Zhou Dynasty, she joined the Zhou Dynasty and guarded the western border. Therefore, the western border was harmonious and peaceful."
Now I will marry my daughter to Da Luo and give birth to an heir.
The Marquis of Shen and Da Luo marry again, and all the Xirong tribe submits. Only in this way can you be crowned king.
I hope you will consider it.
Then King Xiao said: In the past, Boyi was in charge of livestock for Emperor Shun, and his livestock multiplied a lot, so he was granted a land grant and given the surname Ying.
Now his descendants are also taming and breeding horses for me, and I will also give them land as a vassal state.
He was given the land of Qin as a fief, and asked him to take over the sacrifices of the Ying family, known as Qin Ying.
But he did not abolish the son born from the daughter of Marquis Shen as the heir of Daluo, so as to reconcile with Xirong.
Qin Ying gave birth to Qin Hou.
The Marquis of Qin died after ten years in office.
The Marquis of Qin gave birth to an uncle.
The uncle died after three years in office.
The uncle gave birth to Qin Zhong.
In the third year of Qin Zhong's reign, King Li of Zhou was immoral, and some princes rebelled.
Xirong also rebelled against the royal family and destroyed the Daluo clan who lived in Quanqiu.
After King Xuan of Zhou ascended the throne, he appointed Qin Zhong as a doctor to attack Xirong.
Xirong killed Qin Zhong.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
秦仲立二十三年，死于戎。
有子五人，其长者曰庄公。
周宣王乃召庄公昆弟五人，与兵七千人，使伐西戎，破之。
于是复予秦仲后，及其先大骆地犬丘并有之，为西垂大夫。
庄公居其故西犬丘，生子三人，其长男世父。
世父曰： 戎杀我大父仲，我非杀戎王则不敢入邑。
遂将击戎，让其弟襄公。
襄公为太子。
庄公立四十四年，卒，太子襄公代立。
襄公元年，以女弟缪嬴为丰王妻。
襄公二年，戎围犬丘，世父击之，为戎人所虏。
岁余，复归世父。
七年春，周幽王用褒姒废太子，立褒姒子为适，数欺诸侯，诸侯叛之。
西戎犬戎与申侯伐周，杀幽王郦山下。
而秦襄公将兵救周，战甚力，有功。
周避犬戎难，东徙雒邑，襄公以兵送周平王。
平王封襄公为诸侯，赐之岐以西之地。
曰： 戎无道，侵夺我岐、丰之地，秦能攻逐戎，即有其地。
与誓，封爵之。
襄公于是始国，与诸侯通使聘享之礼，乃用骝驹、黄牛、羝羊各三，祠上帝西畤。
十二年，伐戎而至岐，卒。
生文公。
文公元年，居西垂宫。
translation: 
Twenty-three years after Qin Zhong ascended the throne as Houwang, he died in the hands of Xirong.
Qin Zhong had five sons, the eldest son was named Zhuang Gong.
King Xuan of Zhou summoned the five Zhuang Gong brothers and gave them 7,000 soldiers. He ordered them to attack Xirong and defeated Xirong.
King Xuan of Zhou then rewarded Qin Zhong's descendants again, including the fiefdom of their ancestor Daluo, Quanqiu, and appointed them as officials of Xicui.
Zhuang Gong lived in Quanqiu, Xixi, Daluo's hometown. He had three sons. The eldest son was called Shifu.
Shifu said: Xirong killed my grandfather Qin Zhong. I will never enter the city until I kill the king of Rong.
So he led his troops to attack Xirong and gave up the position of heir to his younger brother Xiang Gong.
Therefore, Duke Xiang was established as the crown prince.
Duke Zhuang died in his forty-fourth year, and Prince Xiang Gong came to the throne.
In the first year of Xiang AD, Duke Xiang married his sister Miao Ying to King Feng as his wife.
In the second year of Duke Xiang, the Xirong besieged Quanqiu. Shifu fought against him and was finally captured by the Rong.
After more than a year, the Rong people released Shifu again.
In the spring of the seventh year, King You of Zhou appointed Bao Si as his queen, deposed him as the crown prince, and instead appointed Bao Si's son as the crown prince. He broke trust with the princes many times, so the princes rebelled.
Quan Rong of Xirong and Shen Hou attacked the Zhou Dynasty together and killed King You at the foot of Mount Li.
Qin Xianggong led his troops to rescue the Zhou Dynasty, fought effectively and achieved military exploits.
In order to avoid the harassment of dog soldiers, King Ping of Zhou moved the capital eastward to Luoyi. Duke Xiang led troops to escort King Ping of Zhou.
King Ping of Zhou made Duke Xiang a prince and gave him the land west of Qishan.
King Ping said: Xirong is unjust and has invaded our lands in Qishan and Fengshui. If Qin can drive Xirong away, the land of Xirong will belong to Qin.
King Ping made an oath with him, granted him a fiefdom, and awarded him a title.
Only then did Duke Xiang make Qin a vassal state, exchange envoys with other vassal states, and send gifts of invitation and greetings to each other. They also used three black-maned and naked ponies, three oxen, and three rams to sacrifice to the Emperor of Heaven in the Western Border.
In the twelfth year, Duke Xiang attacked Xirong and reached Qi, where he died.
Born Wen Gong.
In the first year of Wen Gong, Wen Gong lived in Xicui Palace.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
三年，文公以兵七百人东猎。
四年，至汧渭之会。
曰： 昔周邑我先秦嬴于此，后卒获为诸侯。
乃卜居之，占曰吉，即营邑之。
十年，初为鄜畤，用三牢。
十三年，初有史以纪事，民多化者。
十六年，文公以兵伐戎，戎败走。
于是文公遂收周余民有之，地至岐，岐以东献之周。
十九年，得陈宝。
二十年，法初有三族之罪。
二十七年，伐南山大梓，丰大特。
四十八年，文公太子卒，赐谥为竫公。
竫公之长子为太子，是文公孙也。
五十年，文公卒，葬西山。
竫公子立，是为宁公。
宁公二年，公徙居平阳。
遣兵伐荡社。
三年，与亳战，亳王奔戎，遂灭荡社。
translation: 
In the third year, Duke Wen led 700 troops to hunt in the east.
Four years later, we reached the intersection of Lishui River and Weishui River.
Duke Wen said: In the past, the Zhou Dynasty granted this place to my ancestor Qin Ying as a fief, and later we finally became princes.
So he settled in this place, divined it as auspicious, and built a city here.
In the tenth year, the construction of the altar for worshiping heaven and earth began, and sacrifices were held with three types of livestock: cattle, sheep, and pigs.
In the thirteenth year, historians were set up to record important events, and most of the people were educated.
In the 16th year, Duke Wen led his troops to attack Xirong, but Xirong was defeated and fled.
Duke Wen brought the Zhou people who had stayed there under his rule, expanded his territory to Qi, and dedicated the land east of Qi to Zhou.
In the 19th year, I got a strange stone named Chen Bao.
In the 20th year, the punishment of exterminating the three clans was established.
In the twenty-seventh year, the big catalpa tree on Nanshan was cut down, and the catalpa tree god turned into a bull and fled into Fengshui.
In the forty-eighth year, Duke Wen's prince passed away and was given the posthumous title of Duke Zhu.
The eldest son of Duke Zhu was established as the prince, that is, the grandson of Duke Wen.
In the fiftieth year, Duke Wen died and was buried in Xishan.
Duke Yan's son came to the throne, and he was Duke Ning.
In the second year of Duke Ning's reign, Duke Ning moved his capital to Pingyang.
Send troops to conquer Dangshe.
In the third year, he fought with a Bo tribe from Xirong. King Bo fled to Rong territory and destroyed Dangshe.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
四年，鲁公子翚弑其君隐公。
十二年，伐荡氏，取之。
宁公生十岁立，立十二年卒，葬西山。
生子三人，长男武公为太子。武公弟德公，同母鲁姬子，生出子。
宁公卒，大庶长弗忌、威垒、三父废太子而立出子为君。
出子六年，三父等复共令人贼杀出子。
出子生五岁立，立六年卒。
三父等乃复立故太子武公。
武公元年，伐彭戏氏，至于华山下，居平阳封宫。
三年，诛三父等而夷三族，以其杀出子也。
郑高渠眯杀其君昭公。
十年，伐邽、冀戎，初县之。十一年，初县杜、郑。
灭小虢。
十三年，齐人管至父、连称等杀其君襄公而立公孙无知。
晋灭霍、魏、耿。
齐雍廪杀无知、管至父等而立齐桓公。
齐、晋为强国。
十九年，晋曲沃始为晋侯。
齐桓公伯于鄄。
二十年，武公卒，葬雍平阳。
初以人从死，从死者六十六人。
有子一人，名曰白，白不立，封平阳。
立其弟德公。
德公元年，初居雍城大郑宫。
以牺三百牢祠鄜畤。
卜居雍。后子孙饮马于河。
translation: 
In the fourth year, Prince Hui of Lu killed his king Yin Gong.
In the twelfth year, Ning Gong attacked the Dang family and captured it.
Duke Ning ascended the throne at the age of ten. He died after reigning for twelve years and was buried in Xishan.
He gave birth to three sons: the eldest son Wu Gong was the prince; Wu Gong's younger brother De Gong was the same mother as Wu Gong; Ning Gong's concubine Lu Jizi gave birth to a son.
After Ning Gong passed away, the concubine chief Fuji, Wei Lei and the third father deposed the prince and made his son the king.
Six years after the birth of the son, the three fathers and others teamed up to send people to murder the son.
Izuku ascended the throne when he was five years old and was killed in his sixth year of reign.
Therefore, the three fathers and others established the former prince Wu Gong as their king.
In the first year of Emperor Wu, he conquered the Pengxi clan and reached the foot of Mount Hua. Duke Wu lived in Feng Palace, Pingyang.
In three years, the three fathers and others were executed and their three clans were destroyed because they killed the son.
Gao Qumi of Zheng State killed his king, Duke Zhao.
In the tenth year, the Rong people who attacked the Yi and Jirong areas began to set up counties there.
In the eleventh year, counties were established in Du and Zheng, and Xiaoguo was destroyed.
In the thirteenth year, the people of Qi, Guan Zhifu, Lian Cheng and others, killed their king, Duke Xiang, and made Gongsun Wuwu their king.
The Jin State destroyed the three kingdoms of Huo, Wei, and Geng.
Yonglin of Qi State killed Wuzhi, Guan Zhifu and others, and supported Duke Huan of Qi.
Qi and Jin became powerful states.
In the 19th year of the Jin Dynasty, Quwo Wugong of the Jin Dynasty destroyed the Jinhou Min and became the Jinhou.
Duke Huan of Qi dominated Juan.
Twenty years later, Duke Wu of Qin passed away and was buried in Pingyang, Yongyi.
They began to bury alive people with them, and there were 66 people buried with them.
Duke Wu had a son named Bai. Bai failed to ascend the throne and was sealed in Pingyang.
He appointed Duke Wu's younger brother De Gong as king.
In the first year of Emperor De's reign, he began to live in Dazheng Palace in Yongcheng.
Three hundred oxen, sheep and pigs were sacrificed to heaven and earth on the rim of the mountain.
The divination results indicate that future generations will expand their territory eastward and drink horses from the Yellow River.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
梁伯、芮伯来朝。
二年，初伏，以狗御蛊。
德公生三十三岁而立，立二年卒。
生子三人：长子宣公，中子成公，少子穆公。
长子宣公立。
宣公元年，卫、燕伐周，出惠王，立王子穨。
三年，郑伯、虢叔杀子穨而入惠王。
四年，作密畤。
与晋战河阳，胜之。
十二年，宣公卒。
生子九人，莫立，立其弟成公。
成公元年，梁伯、芮伯来朝。
齐桓公伐山戎，次于孤竹。
成公立四年卒。
子七人，莫立，立其弟缪公。
缪公任好元年，自将伐茅津，胜之。
四年，迎妇于晋，晋太子申生姊也。
其岁，齐桓公伐楚，至邵陵。
五年，晋献公灭虞、虢，虏虞君与其大夫百里傒，以璧马赂于虞故也。
translation: 
Uncle Liang and Uncle Rui came to see him.
In the second year, it was stipulated that dogs should be killed during the dog days to ward off heat and poisonous evil spirits.
Duke De did not ascend the throne until he was thirty-three years old, and died after reigning for two years.
He gave birth to three sons: the eldest son Xuangong, the second son Chenggong, and the youngest son Mu Gong.
The eldest son Xuan Gong succeeded to the throne.
In the first year of Xuan Gong, the Wei State Yan State attacked the Zhou royal family, drove King Hui out of the court, and established Prince Ran as emperor.
In the third year, Uncle Zheng and Uncle Guo killed Prince Ran and sent King Hui back to the court.
In four years, the secret border was built.
He fought with Jin in Heyang and won.
In the twelfth year, Duke Xuan died.
He gave birth to nine sons, but none of them succeeded to the throne, so he made his younger brother Chenggong the king.
In the first year of his reign, Liang Bo and Rui Bo came to see him.
Duke Huan of Qi conquered Shanrong and stationed his troops in Guzhu.
Chenggong died four years after his reign.
He had seven sons, but none of them succeeded to the throne, so he appointed his younger brother Mu Gong as king.
In the first year of Duke Mu's tenure, Duke Mu personally led an army to attack Maojin and achieved victory.
Four years later, he married a daughter-in-law from Jin State, who was the sister of Prince Shen Sheng of Jin Dynasty.
In this year, Duke Heng of Qi attacked Chu and reached Shaoling.
In the fifth year, Duke Xian of Jin destroyed Yu and Guo and captured the king of Yu and his official Baili Xi. This was the result of bribing the Yu State with jade walls produced by Chuiji and horses produced by Beiqu.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
既虏百里傒，以为秦缪公夫人媵于秦。
百里傒亡秦走宛，楚鄙人执之。
缪公闻百里傒贤，欲重赎之，恐楚人不与，乃使人谓楚曰： 吾媵臣百里傒在焉，请以五羖羊皮赎之。 。
楚人遂许与之。
当是时，百里傒年已七十余。
缪公释其囚，与语国事。
谢曰： 臣亡国之臣，何足问！
缪公曰： 虞君不用子，故亡，非子罪也。
固问，语三日，缪公大说，授之国政，号曰五羖大夫。
百里傒让曰： 臣不及臣友蹇叔，蹇叔贤而世莫知。
臣常游困于齐而乞食铚人，蹇叔收臣。
臣因而欲事齐君无知，蹇叔止臣，臣得脱齐难，遂之周。
周王子穨好牛，臣以养牛干之。及穨欲用臣，蹇叔止臣，臣去，得不诛。
事虞君，蹇叔止臣。
臣知虞君不用臣，臣诚私利禄爵，且留。
再用其言，得脱，一不用，及虞君难：是以知其贤。
translation: 
After capturing Baili Xi, he used him to marry Duke Mu of Qin to the State of Qin.
Baili Xi fled from Qin to Wan and was captured by residents on the border of Chu State.
Duke Mu heard that Baili Xi was a virtuous man and wanted to redeem him with a large sum of money, but he was afraid that the Chu people would not give him the money, so he sent someone to say to the Chu State: Our dowry slave Baili Xi is now in your country. Please redeem him with five black sheepskins.
The people of Chu agreed to hand over Baili Xi to Qin.
At this time, Bailixi was already over seventy years old.
Duke Mu released him and discussed state affairs with him.
Bailixi declined and said: I am a minister of a subjugated country, so there is nothing worth asking.
Duke Mu said: Mr. Yu's country perished precisely because he did not listen to your advice. This is not your fault.
After asking him for advice again and again, and after talking for three days, Duke Miao was overjoyed and entrusted him with state affairs, and he was known as Doctor Wuxi.
Bailixi Qianrang said: I am not as good as my friend Jian Shu. Uncle Jian is a virtuous man that the world does not know.
Once upon a time, I was an official in Qi and fell into a difficult situation. I had to beg for food from the people of Zhi. Thanks to Uncle Jian, I was taken in.
Therefore, I wanted to work under Qi Jun Wuwu, but Uncle Jian dissuaded me, so I was spared the civil strife in Qi, and then arrived in Zhou Dynasty.
Prince Zhou liked cows, so I raised cows to seek an official position. When he was about to appoint me, Uncle Jian dissuaded me, so I left to avoid being killed.
When I started working under Mr. Yu, Uncle Jian tried to dissuade me.
Although I knew that Mr. Yu would not reuse him, but in my heart I was greedy for the title and salary, so I stayed for the time being.
Twice I listened to his advice and escaped, but once I didn't listen, I encountered the danger of King Yu's country being destroyed. This shows his virtuousness.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
于是缪公使人厚币迎蹇叔，以为上大夫。
秋，缪公自将伐晋，战于河曲。
晋骊姬作乱，太子申生死新城，重耳、夷吾出奔。
九年，齐桓公会诸侯于葵丘。
晋献公卒。
立骊姬子奚齐，其臣里克杀奚齐。
荀息立卓子，克又杀卓子及荀息。
夷吾使人请秦，求入晋。
于是缪公许之，使百里傒将兵送夷吾。
夷吾谓曰： 诚得立，请割晋之河西八城与秦。
及至，已立，而使丕郑谢秦，背约不与河西城，而杀里克。
丕郑闻之，恐，因与缪公谋曰： 晋人不欲夷吾，实欲重耳。
今背秦约而杀里克，皆吕甥、郄芮之计也。
愿君以利急召吕、郄，吕、郄至，则更入重耳便。
缪公许之，使人与丕郑归，召吕、郄。
吕、郄等疑丕郑有间，乃言夷吾杀丕郑。
丕郑子丕豹奔秦，说缪公曰： 晋君无道，百姓不亲，可伐也。
缪公曰： 百姓苟不便，何故能诛其大臣？
能诛其大臣，此其调也。
不听，而阴用豹。
十二年，齐管仲、隰朋死。
translation: 
So Duke Mu sent someone to invite Uncle Jian with valuable gifts and made him a senior official.
In autumn, Duke Mu personally led his troops to attack Jin and fought with the Jin army in Hequ.
Li Ji of Jin State rebelled, Prince Shen Sheng died in Xincheng, and Chong'er and Yi Wu fled abroad.
In the ninth year, Duke Huan of Qi and the princes met in Caiqiu to form an alliance.
Duke Xian of Jin died.
Xi Qi, the son of Li Ji, was made king. Xi Qi's minister, Rick, killed Xi Qi.
Xun Xi made Zhuo Zi his king, and Rick killed Zhuo Zi and Xun Xi.
Yiwu sent people to request Qin, hoping to return to Jin.
Duke Mu agreed and sent Baili Xi to lead his troops to escort Yi Wu.
Yi Wu said to the people of Qin: If I can ascend the throne, I will cede the eight cities in Hexi of Jin to Qin.
But when he returned to China and took the throne, he sent Pizheng to reject Qin, broke his oath and refused to deliver the eight cities in Hexi, and killed Rick.
When Pizheng heard that he was afraid, he discussed with Duke Mu and said: The people of Jin do not support Yi Wu, but actually support Chong'er.
Now Yiwu has violated the oath he made with Qin and killed Rick. It was all the idea of ​​Lu's nephew and Qerui.
I hope you can quickly summon Lu and Que with heavy profits. With Lu and Que here, it will be easier to replace Chong'er when he returns home and takes the throne.
Duke Mu agreed and sent people to follow Pi Zheng back to the country to summon Lu and Que.
Lu, Que and others suspected that Pi Zheng had a conspiracy, so they told Yi Wu to kill Pi Zheng.
Pi Zheng's son Pi Bao fled to Qin and advised Duke Mu: "The king of Jin is unruly and the people are not loyal to him, so we can attack him."
Duke Mu said: If the people think it is inappropriate, how can they execute their ministers?
Being able to execute his ministers shows that their relationship is harmonious.
He was not adopted, but Pi Bao was reused secretly.
In the twelfth year, Guan Zhong and Xi Peng of Qi State died.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
晋旱，来请粟。
丕豹说缪公勿与，因其饥而伐之。
缪公问公孙支，支曰： 饥穰更事耳，不可不与。
问百里傒，傒曰： 夷吾得罪于君，其百姓何罪？
于是用百里傒、公孙支言，卒与之粟。
以船漕车转，自雍相望至绛。
十四年，秦饥，请粟于晋。晋君谋之群臣。
虢射曰： 因其饥伐之，可有大功。
晋君从之。
十五年，兴兵将攻秦。
缪公发兵，使丕豹将，自往击之。
九月壬戌，与晋惠公夷吾合战于韩地。
晋君弃其军，与秦争利，还而马騺。
缪公与麾下驰追之，不能得晋君，反为晋军所围。
晋击缪公，缪公伤。
于是岐下食善马者三百人驰冒晋军，晋军解围，遂脱缪公而反生得晋君。
初，缪公亡善马，岐下野人共得而食之者三百余人，吏逐得，欲法之。
缪公曰： 君子不以畜产害人。
吾闻食善马肉不饮酒，伤人。
translation: 
There was a severe drought in Jin State, so people were sent to Qin State to ask for food assistance.
Pi Bao persuaded Duke Mu not to give it, and asked Duke Mu to take advantage of Jin's famine to attack it.
Duke Mu went to ask Gongsun Zhi, and Gongsun Zhi said: "Famine and harvest occur alternately, so we must give it."
He asked Baili Xi again, and Baili Xi said: "Yiwu has offended you, what are the crimes of his people?"
Duke Mu accepted the opinions of Baili Xi and Gongsun Zhi, and finally gave grain to Jin.
Food was transported to the Jin State by ship by waterway and by car by land, starting from Yongdu and continuing to Jiangcheng.
In the fourteenth year of the Qin Dynasty, there was a famine in the State of Qin, so it asked the State of Jin to borrow grain.
Guo She said: Taking advantage of the famine in Qin to attack it, we can achieve great success.
Jin Jun adopted his opinion.
In the fifteenth year, Jin State will raise its troops to attack Qin State.
Duke Mu sent troops and asked Pi Bao to lead the army and go to meet him personally.
On the ninth day of Renxu, he fought with Yiwu, Duke Hui of Jin, in Han.
Jin Jun abandoned his troops and rushed forward alone to compete with the Qin army for property. When he came back, the horse he was driving got stuck in the deep mud.
Duke Mu and his men rode in pursuit, but failed to catch Jin Jun. Instead, they were surrounded by the Jin army.
The Jin army attacked Duke Mu, who was wounded.
At this time, more than 300 countrymen who had stolen Miao Gong's good horse at the foot of Qishan Mountain drove their horses into the Jin army regardless of the danger. The Jin army's siege was broken away, not only allowing Miao Gong to escape, but also captured the Jin Jun alive.
At first, Duke Mu lost a fine horse, and more than three hundred country people at the foot of Qishan Mountain caught it and ate it. The officials caught them and wanted to punish them.
Duke Mu said: A gentleman cannot harm people because of livestock.
I heard that eating good horse meat will hurt people if you don't drink it.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
乃皆赐酒而赦之。
三百人者闻秦击晋，皆求从，从而见缪公窘，亦皆推锋争死，以报食马之德。
于是缪公虏晋君以归，令于国，齐宿，吾将以晋君祠上帝。
周天子闻之，曰 晋我同姓 ，为请晋君。
夷吾姊亦为缪公夫人，夫人闻之，乃衰绖跣，曰： 妾兄弟不能相救，以辱君命。
缪公曰： 我得晋君以为功，今天子为请，夫人是忧。
乃与晋君盟，许归之，更舍上舍，而馈之七牢。
十一月，归晋君夷吾，夷吾献其河西地，使太子圉为质于秦。
秦妻子圉以宗女。
是时秦地东至河。
十八年，齐桓公卒。
二十年，秦灭梁、芮。
二十二年，晋公子圉闻晋君病，曰： 梁，我母家也，而秦灭之。
translation: 
So he gave them wine to drink and forgave them.
These three hundred people heard that Qin was going to attack Jin, and they all asked to go with them. During the battle, they found that Duke Mu was surrounded by enemies. They all raised their weapons and fought to the death to repay the kindness of being forgiven for eating horse meat.
Duke Mu captured Jin Jun and returned. He ordered the people in the country to fast, and I will use Jin Jun to sacrifice to the Emperor of Heaven.
The Emperor of Zhou heard about this and said, "Jin is my surname" and asked for the pardon of Lord Jin.
Yiwu's sister is Duke Mu's wife. When the lady heard about it, she also put on mourning clothes and went barefoot, and said to Duke Mu, "I can't even save my own brother, which is a disgrace to your order."
Duke Mu said: I regarded the capture of Jinjun as a major event worthy of celebration. Unexpectedly, now the emperor is interceding for him, and his wife is also sad about it.
He made an oath with the Lord of Jin and agreed to let him go back. He changed to a high-end guest house for him to live in, and gave him a banquet with the standards of a seventh prison.
In the eleventh month, Yiwu, the king of Jin, was sent back to his country. Yiwu offered Jin's land west of Hexi and asked the prince to take it to Qin as a pledge.
Qin married his eldest daughter to Ziyu.
At that time, Qin's territory reached the Yellow River in the east.
In the eighteenth year, Duke Huan of Qi passed away.
In twenty years, Qin destroyed Liang and Rui.
In the twenty-second year, Jin Gongzi Yu heard that Jin Jun was ill and said: Liang was my mother's hometown, but Qin destroyed it.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
我兄弟多，即君百岁后，秦必留我，而晋轻，亦更立他子。
子圉乃亡归晋。
二十三年，晋惠公卒，子圉立为君。
秦怨圉亡去，乃迎晋公子重耳于楚，而妻以故子圉妻。
重耳初谢，后乃受。
缪公益礼厚遇之。
二十四年春，秦使人告晋大臣，欲入重耳。
晋许之，于是使人送重耳。
二月，重耳立为晋君，是为文公。
文公使人杀子圉。
子圉是为怀公。
其秋，周襄王弟带以翟伐王，王出居郑。
二十五年，周王使人告难于晋、秦。
秦缪公将兵助晋文公入襄王，杀王弟带。
二十八年，晋文公败楚于城濮。
三十年，缪公助晋文公围郑。
郑使人言缪公曰： 亡郑厚晋，于晋而得矣，而秦未有利。
晋之强，秦之忧也。
缪公乃罢兵归。晋亦罢。
三十二年冬，晋文公卒。
郑人有卖郑于秦曰： 我主其城门，郑可袭也。
缪公问蹇叔、百里傒，对曰： 径数国千里而袭人，希有得利者。
且人卖郑，庸知我国人不有以我情告郑者乎？
不可。
缪公曰： 子不知也，吾已决矣。
遂发兵，使百里傒子孟明视，蹇叔子西乞术及白乙丙将兵。
translation: 
I have many brothers. Once Jin Jun dies, Qin will definitely detain me. Jin will look down on me and will appoint someone else.
Ziyu therefore fled back to Jin.
In the twenty-third year, Duke Hui of Jin died, and Ziyu became the king.
The king of Qin was very angry at Yu's escape, so he welcomed Jin Gongzi Chong'er from Chu State and married Zi Yu's wife to Chong'er.
Chong'er refused, but later accepted.
Duke Mu treated Chong'er even more politely and favorably.
In the spring of the twenty-fourth year, Qin sent people to tell the ministers of Jin that they would send Chong'er back to his country.
The State of Jin agreed and sent troops to escort Chong'er back to the country.
In February, Chong'er was established as King Wen of Jin.
Duke Wen sent people to kill Ziyu.
Ziyu is Duke Huai.
In the autumn of that year, Wang Zi, the younger brother of King Zhou Xiang, colluded with the Zhai people to attack King Zhou Xiang. King Zhou Xiang escaped and lived in the state of Zheng.
In the twenty-fifth year, King Xiang of Zhou sent people to inform Jin and Qin of the disaster.
Duke Mu of Qin led his troops to help Duke Wen of Jin escort King Xiang of Zhou back to the court, and killed King Xiang's younger brother Dai.
In the twenty-eighth year, Duke Wen of Jin defeated the Chu army in Chengpu.
Thirty years later, Duke Mu helped Duke Wen of Jin to besiege Zheng.
Zheng sent someone to tell Duke Mu: "The destruction of Zheng is a preferential treatment to Jin. It is certainly good for Jin, but it may not be good for Qin."
The power of Jin is exactly what Qin is worried about.
Duke Mu then dismissed his troops and returned, and Jin also dismissed his troops.
In the winter of the 32nd year, Duke Wen of Jin died.
Someone in the State of Zheng betrayed the State of Zheng to the State of Qin and said: I am in charge of the gates of the State of Zheng and can come and attack the State of Zheng.
Duke Mu asked Uncle Jian and Baili Xi for their opinions, and they replied: "When you pass through the borders of several countries and attack others thousands of miles away, you rarely take advantage."
Besides, since someone betrayed Zheng Guo, how do we know that people in our country did not tell Zheng Guo the truth about us?
We cannot attack Zheng.
Duke Mu said: You don't know, I have already decided.
Then he sent troops, Meng Mingshi, son of Bailixi, Xiqishu, son of Uncle Jian, and Bai Yibing.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
行日，百里傒、蹇叔二人哭之。
缪公闻，怒曰： 孤发兵而子沮哭吾军，何也？
二老曰： 臣非敢沮君军。
军行，臣子与往；臣老，迟还恐不相见，故哭耳。
二老退，谓其子曰： 汝军即败，必于肴阨矣。
三十三年春，秦兵遂东，更晋地，过周北门。
周王孙满曰： 秦师无礼，不败何待！
兵至滑，郑贩卖贾人弦高，持十二牛将卖之周，见秦兵，恐死虏，因献其牛，曰： 闻大国将诛郑，郑君谨修守御备，使臣以牛十二劳军士。
秦三将军相谓曰： 将袭郑，郑今已觉之，往无及已。
灭滑。
滑，晋之边邑也。
当是时，晋文公丧尚未葬。
太子襄公怒曰： 秦侮我孤，因丧破我滑。
translation: 
On the day the army set out, Baili Xi and Uncle Jian cried loudly in front of the army.
Duke Mu heard about it and said angrily: I sent troops to set off, but you stopped the army and cried, destroying the morale of the army. Why is this?
The two old men said: I dare not stop the army.
The army is leaving, and our two sons who are in the army will also be leaving. Now that we are older, if they come back late, I'm afraid they won't be able to see each other, so I cry.
The two old men returned and said to their sons: If your army fails, it must be at a dangerous point in Mt.
In the spring of the thirty-third year, the Qin army finally marched eastward, passing through the land of Jin and passing by the north gate of Zhou's capital.
Sun Man, the king of Zhou, said: The Qin army is rude, how can it be undefeated!
When the army arrived at Hua, a merchant from Zheng State, Xian Gao, was bringing twelve cows to sell in the Zhou Dynasty. When he encountered the Qin army, he was afraid of being killed or captured, so he offered his cows and said: "I heard that the great country is going to conquer our country, Zheng State. Zheng Junzheng respectfully strengthened the defense and sent me to use these twelve cows to reward the soldiers."
The three generals of the Qin State discussed with each other: We are going to attack the State of Zheng. Now that the State of Zheng has known about it, we cannot attack.
Then the slip was eliminated.
Hua is a border town of Jin State.
At this time, Duke Wen of Jin passed away and had not yet been buried.
Prince Xianggong was furious and said, Qin deceived me into losing my father, and even attacked my Huayi while I was mourning.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
遂墨衰绖，发兵遮秦兵于肴，击之，大破秦军，无一人得脱者。
虏秦三将以归。
文公夫人，秦女也，为秦三囚将请曰： 缪公之怨此三人入于骨髓，愿令此三人归，令我君得自快烹之。
晋君许之，归秦三将。
三将至，缪公素服郊迎，向三人哭曰： 孤以不用百里傒、蹇叔言以辱三子，三子何罪乎？
子其悉心雪耻，毋怠。
遂复三人官秩如故，愈益厚之。
三十四年，楚太子商臣弑其父成王代立。
缪公于是复使孟明视等将兵伐晋，战于彭衙。
秦不利，引兵归。
戎王使由余于秦。
由余，其先晋人也，亡入戎，能晋言。
闻缪公贤，故使由余观秦。
秦缪公示以宫室、积聚。
由余曰： 使鬼为之，则劳神矣。
translation: 
So he put on black mourning clothes, sent troops to intercept the Qin army at Miao Mountain, attacked and defeated them, and no one escaped.
He captured Qin's three generals and returned.
Mrs. Duke Wen of Jin, a woman from the State of Qin, interceded for the three imprisoned generals and said: Duke Mu hates these three people very much and hopes to release these three people so that our king of Qin can cook them himself.
The king of Jin agreed to her and let the three generals of Qin go back.
When the three generals returned to Qin, Duke Mu put on fierce clothes and went to the suburbs to welcome them. He cried loudly to the three of them and said, "It's because I didn't listen to Baili Xi and Uncle Jian that the three of them were wronged. What's their crime?"
You must find ways to avenge the injustice and do not slack off.
So the three people were restored to their official positions as before, and their treatment was better.
In the thirty-fourth year, the prince of Chu, Shang Chen, killed his father and became the king.
Duke Mu also sent Meng Mingshi and others to lead troops to attack Jin, and fought with the Jin army at Peng Ya.
Qin was unfavorable and withdrew his troops and returned.
The King of Rong sent You Yu as an envoy to the State of Qin.
Yu Yu's ancestors were from the Jin State and fled to Rongdi. He can also speak the dialect of the Jin State.
When King Rong heard that Duke Mu was wise, he sent Yu Yu to observe the state of Qin.
Duke Mu of Qin showed off his palace and accumulated treasures to him.
Youyu said: If the palace savings are built by ghosts and gods, then the ghosts and gods will be tired; if they are built by the common people, then the common people will suffer.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
使人为之，亦苦民矣。 缪公怪之，问曰： 中国以诗书礼乐法度为政，然尚时乱，今戎夷无此，何以为治，不亦难乎？
由余笑曰： 此乃中国所以乱也。
夫自上圣黄帝作为礼乐法度，身以先之，仅以小治。
及其后世，日以骄淫。
阻法度之威，以责督于下，下罢极则以仁义怨望于上，上下交争怨而相篡弑，至于灭宗，皆以此类也。
夫戎夷不然。
上含淳德以遇其下，下怀忠信以事其上，一国之政犹一身之治，不知所以治，此真圣人之治也。
于是缪公退而问内史廖曰： 孤闻邻国有圣人，敌国之忧也。
今由余贤，寡人之害，将奈之何？
内史廖曰： 戎王处辟匿，未闻中国之声。
translation: 
Duke Mu thought his words were strange and asked: Countries in the Central Plains rely on poetry, rituals, music, and laws to handle government affairs, and troubles occur from time to time. Now that the Rong people do not have these, how can they govern the country? Isn't it difficult?
Yu Yu smiled and said: These are the root causes of the troubles in the Central Plains countries.
Since ancient times, the sage Huangdi created the rituals and music laws and personally took the lead in implementing them, which only achieved a small degree of peace.
to future generations. The monarch becomes more arrogant and extravagant day by day.
Relying on the majesty of the legal system to demand and supervise the people, when the people feel tired, they will resent their emperor and demand the implementation of benevolence and righteousness. The top and bottom resent each other, usurp the massacre, and even exterminate the family, all because of this kind of reason.
But the Rong tribe is not like this.
When the superior treats the subjects below with sincerity and kindness, and the subjects serve the emperor with loyalty, the political affairs of the entire country are just like a person controlling his own body, without knowing any methods of governance. This is the true way for a saint to govern the country.
After Duke Mu retired from the court, he asked Liao, the internal history king, saying: I heard that there are saints in neighboring countries, which will be a worry for the opposing country.
Now that Yu has talent, this is my disaster, what should I do?
Wang Liao, the internal historian, said: King Rong is located in a remote place and has never heard the music of the Central Plains.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
君试遗其女乐，以夺其志；为由余请，以疏其间；留而莫遣，以失其期。
戎王怪之，必疑由余。
君臣有间，乃可虏也。
且戎王好乐，必怠于政。 缪公曰： 善。
因与由余曲席而坐，传器而食，问其地形与其兵势尽察，而后令内史廖以女乐二八遗戎王。
戎王受而说之，终年不还。
于是秦乃归由余。
由余数谏不听，缪公又数使人间要由余，由余遂去降秦。
缪公以客礼礼之，问伐戎之形。
三十六年，缪公复益厚孟明等，使将兵伐晋，渡河焚船，大败晋人，取王官及鄗，以报肴之役。
晋人皆城守不敢出。
translation: 
You might as well try giving him a kabuki girl to change his mind. He also asked for credit for You Yu in order to alienate the relationship between their monarch and his ministers; at the same time, he kept You Yu and refused to let him go back, in order to delay the date of his return to the country.
The king of Rong will definitely feel strange and suspect Yu Yu.
If there is a barrier between their ruler and his ministers, they can capture him.
Besides, if the Rong king likes music, he must not have the mind to deal with state affairs. Duke Mu said: OK.
So Duke Mu and Youyu sat around the banquet, passing cups and cups to each other, eating and drinking together, and asked Youyu about the terrain and military strength of the Rong territory. They understood the situation clearly, and then ordered Liao, the king of internal history, to give sixteen singing girls to the king of Rong.
King Rong accepted it and was very fond of it, and he was immersed in it all year round.
At this time, Qin State allowed You Yu to return to the country.
Yu Yu repeatedly remonstrated with King Rong, but King Rong refused to listen. Duke Mu repeatedly sent people to secretly invite You Yu, and Yu Yu left King Rong and surrendered to Qin.
Duke Mu treated him like a guest and respected him very much. He asked him under what circumstances he should attack the Rong people.
In the thirty-sixth year, Duke Mu treated Meng Ming and others even more favorably and sent them to lead an army to attack Jin. When they crossed the Yellow River, they even burned their boats. They finally defeated the Jin people and occupied Wangguan and Chao as revenge for the Battle of Confucius.
The people of Jin stayed in the city and did not dare to come out.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
于是缪公乃自茅津渡河，封肴中尸，为发丧，哭之三日。
乃誓于军曰： 嗟士卒！
听无哗，余誓告汝。
古之人谋黄髪番番，则无所过。
以申思不用蹇叔、百里傒之谋，故作此誓，令后世以记余过。
君子闻之，皆为垂涕，曰： 嗟乎！
秦缪公之与人周也，卒得孟明之庆。
三十七年，秦用由余谋伐戎王，益国十二，开地千里，遂霸西戎。
天子使召公过贺缪公以金鼓。
三十九年，缪公卒，葬雍。
从死者百七十七人，秦之良臣子舆氏三人名曰奄息、仲行、针虎，亦在从死之中。
秦人哀之，为作歌黄鸟之诗。
君子曰： 秦缪公广地益国，东服强晋，西霸戎夷，然不为诸侯盟主，亦宜哉。
死而弃民，收其良臣而从死。
translation: 
So Duke Mu crossed the river from Maojin, buried the corpses in Mt. Confucius, and mourned for them for three days.
Duke Mu issued an oath to the entire army and said: Hey, soldiers!
Listen, don't make any noise, I swear to you.
I want to tell you that the ancients listened humbly to the opinions of the elderly, so they made no mistakes.
Duke Mu once again reflected on his fault for not following Uncle Jian and Baili Xi's plan, so he made this oath to let future generations remember his fault.
When the gentlemen heard about this, they all shed tears and said: Ah!
Duke Mu of Qin was so considerate to others that he was finally blessed with the victory of Meng Ming and others.
In the thirty-seventh year, Qin adopted Youyu's strategy to attack the Rong king, annexed twelve countries, opened up thousands of miles of land, and finally dominated Xirong.
The emperor sent Duke Zhao to give Duke Mu a golden drum to express his congratulations.
In the thirty-ninth year, Duke Mu died and was buried in Yong.
A total of 177 people were buried with him. Three virtuous ministers of Qin, belonging to the Ziyu family, named Yanxi, Zhongxing, and Zhenhu, were also among the martyrs.
The people of Qin mourned and wrote the poem "Yellow Bird" for him.
The gentleman said: Duke Mu of Qin expanded his territory and united the country, defeated the powerful Jin in the east, and dominated the Rong and Yi in the west. However, it is appropriate that he should not be the leader of the princes and allies.
After death, he did not cherish his subjects, but even took his virtuous ministers to be buried with him.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
且先王崩，尚犹遗德垂法，况夺之善人良臣百姓所哀者乎？是以知秦不能复东征也。
缪公子四十人，其太子嵤代立，是为康公。
康公元年。
往岁缪公之卒，晋襄公亦卒；襄公之弟名雍，秦出也，在秦。
晋赵盾欲立之，使随会来迎雍，秦以兵送至令狐。
晋立襄公子而反击秦师，秦师败，随会来奔。
二年，秦伐晋，取武城，报令狐之役。
四年，晋伐秦，取少梁。
六年，秦伐晋，取羁马。
战于河曲，大败晋军。
晋人患随会在秦为乱，乃使魏雠馀详反，合谋会，诈而得会，会遂归晋。
康公立十二年卒，子共公立。
共公二年，晋赵穿弑其君灵公。
三年，楚庄王强，北兵至雒，问周鼎。
共公立五年卒，子桓公立。
translation: 
After the death of the late king, it is necessary to leave behind good morals and institutions, let alone good people and virtuous ministers who win the sympathy of the people? This shows that Qin could not conquer the east.
Duke Mu had forty sons, and his crown prince named him as Duke Kang.
The first year of Kanggong.
The previous year, when Duke Mu passed away, Duke Xianggong of Jin also died; Duke Xianggang of Jin's younger brother was named Yong, who was born to a daughter of Qin and lived in Qin.
Zhao Dun, the Qing of Jin, wanted to make him king and sent a retinue to pick him up. The Qin State sent troops to escort Yong to Linghu.
However, the Jin State had already established the son of Duke Xiang, but he came to attack the Qin Army. The Qin Army was defeated and fled to the Qin State.
In the second year, Qin attacked Jin and occupied Wucheng to retaliate for the Battle of Linghu.
In the fourth year, Jin conquered Qin and occupied Shaoliang.
In the sixth year, Qin attacked Jin and occupied Jima.
The two armies fought at Hequ and defeated the Jin army.
The people of Jin were worried that Sui Hui would bring war to Jin State in the Qin State, so they sent Wei Yuyu to pretend to be a rebel, conspired with Sui Hui, and obtained Sui Hui through deception, so Sui Hui returned to Jin State.
Duke Kang died in the twelfth year of his reign, and his son Gong Gong came to the throne.
In the second year of Gong Gong's reign, Zhao Chuan of Jin State killed his king Ling Gong.
In the third year, Duke Zhuang of Chu became powerful and sent troops north to attack Luoshui to question the importance of Zhou Ding.
Duke Gong died in the fifth year of his reign, and his son Duke Huan came to the throne.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
桓公三年，晋败我一将。
十年，楚庄王服郑，北败晋兵于河上。
当是之时，楚霸，为会盟合诸侯。二十四年，晋厉公初立，与秦桓公夹河而盟。
归而秦倍盟，与翟合谋击晋。
二十六年，晋率诸侯伐秦，秦军败走，追至泾而还。
桓公立二十七年卒，子景公立。
景公四年，晋栾书弑其君厉公。
十五年，救郑，败晋兵于栎。
是时晋悼公为盟主。
十八年，晋悼公强，数会诸侯，率以伐秦，败秦军。
秦军走，晋兵追之，遂渡泾，至棫林而还。
二十七年，景公如晋，与平公盟，已而背之。
三十六年，楚公子围弑其君而自立，是为灵王。
景公母弟后子针有宠，景公母弟富，或谮之，恐诛，乃奔晋，车重千乘。
晋平公曰： 后子富如此，何以自亡？
对曰： 秦公无道，畏诛，欲待其后世乃归。
三十九年，楚灵王强，会诸侯于申，为盟主，杀齐庆封。
景公立四十年卒，子哀公立。
后子复来归秦。
translation: 
In the third year of Duke Huan, the Jin army defeated our army and captured a general.
In ten years, King Zhuang of Chu conquered Zheng and went north to defeat the Jin army at the Yellow River.
At that time, Chu was the hegemon and presided over the alliance among the princes. In the twenty-fourth year, Duke Li of Jin came to the throne and made an alliance with Duke Huan of Qin across the Yellow River.
After returning, Qin broke the treaty and teamed up with the Zhai people to plan an attack on Jin.
In the twenty-sixth year, Jin led the princes to attack Qin. The Qin army was defeated and fled. The Jin army pursued them all the way to Jingshui River before returning.
Duke Huan died in the twenty-seventh year of his reign, and his son Duke Jin came to the throne.
In the fourth year of Jinggong's reign, Luan Shu of Jin killed his monarch, Duke Li.
In the fifteenth year, the Qin army rescued the state of Zheng and defeated the Jin army in Liyi.
At this time, Duke Ao of Jin became the leader of the alliance.
In the 18th year, Duke Dao of Jin became stronger. He called the princes to make alliances many times and led them to attack Qin and defeated the Qin army.
The Qin army was defeated and fled, and the Jin soldiers pursued them. They crossed the Jing River and pursued them to Chulin before returning.
In the twenty-seventh year, Qin Jinggong arrived in Jin and made an alliance with Jin Pinggong, but soon betrayed the alliance.
In the thirty-sixth year, the prince of Chu surrounded and killed his monarch and proclaimed himself king. This was King Ling of Chu.
Qin Jinggong's half-brother, Houzi Zhen, was favored and wealthy. Some people said bad things about him and framed him. He was afraid of being killed, so he fled to Jin State, taking thousands of heavy carriages with him.
Duke Ping of Jin said: You are so rich, why do you want to flee?
Hou Zizhen replied: "Qinjun is unjust, and I am afraid of being killed." He wanted to wait until his heir took the throne before going back.
In the thirty-ninth year, King Ling of Chu became stronger, made an alliance with the princes in Shendi, became the leader of the alliance, and killed Qingfeng of Qi.
Jinggong died in his fortyth year and was succeeded by his son Aigong.
Hou Zizhen returned to Qin.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
哀公八年，楚公子弃疾弑灵王而自立，是为平王。
十一年，楚平王来求秦女为太子建妻。
至国，女好而自娶之。
十五年，楚平王欲诛建，建亡；伍子胥奔吴。
晋公室卑而六卿强，欲内相攻，是以久秦晋不相攻。
三十一年，吴王阖闾与伍子胥伐楚，楚王亡奔随，吴遂入郢。
楚大夫申包胥来告急，七日不食，日夜哭泣。
于是秦乃发五百乘救楚，败吴师。
吴师归，楚昭王乃得复入郢。
哀公立三十六年卒。
太子夷公，夷公蚤死，不得立，立夷公子，是为惠公。
惠公元年，孔子行鲁相事。
五年，晋卿中行、范氏反晋，晋使智氏、赵简子攻之，范、中行氏亡奔齐。
惠公立十年卒，子悼公立。
悼公二年，齐臣田乞弑其君孺子，立其兄阳生，是为悼公。
六年，吴败齐师。
齐人弑悼公，立其子简公。
九年，晋定公与吴王夫差盟，争长于黄池，卒先吴。
吴强，陵中国。
十二年，齐田常弑简公，立其弟平公，常相之。
十三年，楚灭陈。
秦悼公立十四年卒，子厉共公立。
孔子以悼公十二年卒。
translation: 
In the eighth year of Duke Ai, Prince Chu abandoned his illness and killed King Ling and established himself as King Ping.
Ten years later, King Ping of Chu sent someone to ask for a woman from Qin to be Prince Jian's wife.
When he came back to his country to marry, he saw a beautiful girl from Qin and married her himself.
In the fifteenth year, King Ping of Chu wanted to execute Prince Jian, and Prince Jian fled: Wu Zixu fled to the state of Wu.
With the decline of the Jin government and the strength of the Six Ministers, the main consideration was internal mergers, so for a long time Qin and Jin no longer attacked each other.
In the 31st year, King Helu of Wu and Wu Zixu attacked Chu. King Chu fled to Sui; Wu took advantage of the situation to attack Ying.
Shen Baoxu, a doctor from the state of Chu, came to ask for help. He didn't eat for seven days and cried day and night.
In this way, the state of Qin sent 500 military chariots to rescue the state of Chu and defeated the Wu army.
The Wu army withdrew, and King Chu Zhao returned to Ying.
Duke Ai died in the thirty-sixth year of his reign.
The prince was Duke of Yi. However, Duke Yi died early and failed to ascend the throne. Therefore, the son of Duke Yi was made king, and he was Duke Hui.
In the first year of Hui Gong, Confucius acted as the minister of the state of Lu.
In the fifth year, the Zhongxing and Fan clans of Jin Qing rebelled against the Jin state. The Jin king sent Zhi clan and Zhao Jianzi to attack them, and the Fan and Zhongxing clans fled to the Qi state.
Duke Hui passed away after ten years of reign, and his son Duke Du succeeded to the throne.
In the second year of the Duke's reign, Tian Qi, the minister of Qi, killed Ruzi, the king of his country, and made his elder brother Yangsheng the king, who was the Duke of mourning.
In six years, Wu defeated the Qi army.
The people of Qi killed Duke Mourning and made his son Duke Jian their king.
In the ninth year, Jin Dinggong and Wu Wang Fucha met in Huangchi to form an alliance. They had a dispute over the order, and Wu finally became the leader.
The state of Wu became powerful and invaded all the countries in the Central Plains.
In the twelfth year, Tian Chang of Qi State killed Duke Jian and made Duke Jian's younger brother Ping Gong king, with Tian Chang as his prime minister.
In the thirteenth year, Chu defeated Chen.
Duke Dao of Qin died in the fourteenth year of his reign, and his son Gonggong Li came to the throne.
Confucius died in the twelfth year of his reign.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
厉共公二年，蜀人来赂。
十六年，堑河旁。
以兵二万伐大荔，取其王城。
二十一年，初县频阳。
晋取武成。
二十四年，晋乱，杀智伯，分其国与赵、韩、魏。
二十五年，智开与邑人来奔。
三十三年，伐义渠，虏其王。
三十四年，日食。
厉共公卒，子躁公立。
躁公二年，南郑反。
十三年，义渠来伐，至渭南。
十四年，躁公卒，立其弟怀公。
怀公四年，庶长晁与大臣围怀公，怀公自杀。
怀公太子曰昭子，蚤死，大臣乃立太子昭子之子，是为灵公。
灵公，怀公孙也。
灵公六年，晋城少梁，秦击之。
十三年，城籍姑。
灵公卒，子献公不得立，立灵公季父悼子，是为简公。
简公，昭子之弟而怀公子也。
简公六年，令吏初带剑。
堑洛。城重泉。
translation: 
In the second year of Li Gonggong's reign, people from Shu came to donate their property.
In the 16th year, trenches were dug beside the Yellow River.
He sent 20,000 troops to attack the Dali Kingdom and captured the city of Dali King.
In the 21st year, a county began to be established in Pinyang.
Jin occupied Wucheng.
In the twenty-fourth year, there was civil strife in Jin, Zhibo was killed, and his territory was divided among the three kingdoms of Zhao, Han, and Wei.
In the twenty-fifth year, Zhikai and the people in Zhishi's fiefdom fled to Qin.
In the thirty-third year, he attacked Yiqu and captured the king of Yiqu.
In the thirty-fourth year, a solar eclipse occurred.
Duke Li died and his son Duke Cao ascended the throne.
In the second year of Cao Gong's reign, Nan Zheng rebelled.
In the thirteenth year, Yiqu came to attack Qin and arrived in Weinan.
In the fourteenth year, Duke Cao died and his younger brother, Duke Huai, succeeded him.
In the fourth year of Duke Huai's reign, the concubine Chao and his ministers besieged Duke Huai, who committed suicide.
The prince Huai Gong's name was Zhaozi. He died early, so the ministers made Zhaozi's son king, who was Duke Ling.
Duke Ling is the grandson of Duke Huai.
In the sixth year of Linggong, the Jin State built a city in Shaoliang, and the Qin army attacked the Jin State.
In the thirteenth year, the Qin State built a city in Jigu.
When Duke Linggong died, his son Xiangong failed to succeed him, so the uncle of Duke Linggong was appointed to mourn his son. This was Duke Jian.
Duke Jian is the younger brother of Zhaozi and the son of Duke Huai.
In the sixth year of Duke Jian's reign, he issued an order to allow lower-level officials to carry swords.
The embankments of Luoshui were cut and built, and the walls of Chongquan City were built.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
十六年卒，子惠公立。
惠公十二年，子出子生。
十三年，伐蜀，取南郑。
惠公卒，出子立。
出子二年，庶长改迎灵公之子献公于河西而立之。
杀出子及其母，沈之渊旁。
秦以往者数易君，君臣乖乱，故晋复强，夺秦河西地。
献公元年，止从死。
二年，城栎阳。
四年正月庚寅，孝公生。
十一年，周太史儋见献公曰： 周故与秦国合而别，别五百岁复合，合十七岁而霸王出。
十六年，桃冬花。
十八年，雨金栎阳。
二十一年，与晋战于石门，斩首六万，天子贺以黼黻。
二十三年，与魏晋战少梁，虏其将公孙痤。
二十四年，献公卒，子孝公立，年已二十一岁矣。
translation: 
After his death in the sixteenth year, his son Hui Gong came to the throne.
In the twelfth year of Duke Hui's reign, his son Chuzi was born.
In the thirteenth year, he attacked Shu and occupied Nanzheng.
Duke Hui died and his son came to the throne.
In the second year after the birth of his son, the concubine Zhang Jun took Duke Linggong's son Xiangong back from Hexi and established him as the king.
Kill the son and his mother and sink them into the abyss.
In the past period, the state of Qin frequently changed its monarchs, and the status of monarchs and ministers was reversed. Therefore, the state of Jin became stronger again and took away Qin's land west of the Yellow River.
In the first year of Xian AD, burials with people were abolished.
In the second year, the city wall of Yueyang City was built.
In the first month of the fourth year, Gengyin, Duke Xiao was born.
In the eleventh year, Zhou Taishi Danjin met with Duke Xiang and said: Zhou used to be one with Qin, but later they separated. After five hundred years of separation, they will merge again. In seventeen years together, there will be an overlord.
In the sixteenth year, the peach trees bloomed in winter.
In the eighteenth year, it rained gold in the oak sun.
In the 21st year, he fought with Jin at Shimen and beheaded 60,000 people. The emperor gave Fu Fu as a congratulation.
In the twenty-third year, he fought with the state of Wei in Shaoliang and captured Wei general Gongsun Cuo.
In the twenty-fourth year, Duke Xian died, and his son, Duke Xiao, came to the throne at the age of twenty-one.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
孝公元年，河山以东强国六，与齐威、楚宣、魏惠、燕悼、韩哀、赵成侯并。
淮泗之间小国十余。
楚、魏与秦接界。
魏筑长城，自郑滨洛以北，有上郡。
楚自汉中，南有巴、黔中。
周室微，诸侯力政，争相并。
秦僻在雍州，不与中国诸侯之会盟，夷翟遇之。
孝公于是布惠，振孤寡，招战士，明功赏。
下令国中曰： 昔我缪公自岐雍之间，修德行武，东平晋乱，以河为界，西霸戎翟，广地千里，天子致伯，诸侯毕贺，为后世开业，甚光美。
会往者厉、躁、简公、出子之不宁，国家内忧，未遑外事，三晋攻夺我先君河西地，诸侯卑秦、丑莫大焉。
献公即位，镇抚边境，徙治栎阳，且欲东伐，复缪公之故地，修缪公之政令。
translation: 
In the first year of Xiaogong, there were six powerful states east of the Yellow River and Mount Wei. Qin Xiaogong was also known as King Wei of Qi, King Xuan of Chu, King Hui of Wei, King Yan Du, Han Aihou, and Zhao Chenghou.
There are more than ten small countries between Huai River and Surabaya River.
Chu, Wei and Qin bordered.
Wei built the Great Wall and went north from Zheng along the Luoshui River to occupy the land of Shangjun.
Chu occupied Bajun and Qianzhong County from Hanzhong to the south.
The Zhou royal family declined, and the vassal states conquered and merged with each other by force.
Qin is located in Yongzhou, a remote area. He does not participate in the alliances between the Central Plains countries and is regarded as a barbarian.
The Duke of Filial Piety then extended his favors widely, provided relief to orphans and widows, recruited soldiers, and rewarded people based on their merits.
He ordered the king to say: In the past, our ancestor Mu Gong rose up between Qi and Yong. He focused on literature, virtue and martial arts. To the east, he quelled civil strife in Jin and demarcated the border with Jin by the Yellow River. To the west, he dominated Rongzhai and expanded the area to thousands of miles. The emperor named him Fang Bo, and the princes came to congratulate him. He started a business for future generations. It was a great honor.
Unfortunately, it happened to be an unstable period during the reigns of Duke Li, Duke Cao, Duke Jian, and Chuzi. The country was worried about domestic affairs and could not care about foreign affairs. The three Jin Dynasties took the opportunity to capture the land of our ancestors in Hexi. The princes all despised the Qin State. There is no greater shame than this.
Duke Xian ascended the throne, pacified the border, moved the capital to Yueyang, and planned to send troops to march eastward, regain Duke Mu's old territory, and reorganize Duke Mu's political orders.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
寡人思念先君之意，常痛于心。
宾客群臣有能出奇计强秦者，吾且尊官，与之分土。
于是乃出兵东围陕城，西斩戎之獂王。
卫鞅闻是令下，西入秦，因景监求见孝公。
二年，天子致胙。
三年，卫鞅说孝公变法修刑，内务耕稼，外劝战死之赏罚，孝公善之。
甘龙、杜挚等弗然，相与争之。
卒用鞅法，百姓苦之；居三年，百姓便之。
乃拜鞅为左庶长。
其事在商君语中。
七年，与魏惠王会杜平。
八年，与魏战元里，有功。
十年，卫鞅为大良造，将兵围魏安邑，降之。
十二年，作为咸阳，筑冀阙，秦徙都之。
并诸小乡聚，集为大县，县一令，四十一县。
为田开阡陌。东地渡洛。
十四年，初为赋。
translation: 
I feel sad every time I think of your late king's wishes.
If any of the guests and ministers can come up with clever ideas to make Qin strong, I will make them high officials and give them land.
Then he sent troops to surround Shaanxi City in the east and kill King Xian of the Rong tribe in the west.
When Wei Yang heard that this order had been issued, he came to Qin from the west and asked to see Duke Xiao through the introduction of Jingjian.
In the second year, the emperor rewarded King Qin with sacrificial meat.
In the third year, Wei Yang persuaded Duke Xiao to implement reforms, formulate punishments, promote agriculture internally, strictly enforce rewards and punishments externally, and encourage soldiers to fight hard and fight to the death. Duke Xiao expressed his appreciation.
But Qianlong, Du Zhi and others disagreed and started arguing with him.
In the end, Wei Yang's new method was adopted. The people felt it was very hard, but after three years, they got used to it.
So he made Wei Yang the chief of Zuo Shu.
These things are introduced in "The Biography of Shang Jun".
In the seventh year, he met with King Hui of Wei at Du Ping.
In the eighth year, he fought with Wei in Yuanli and won.
In the tenth year, Wei Yang was granted the title of Daliang Zao, and he led his troops to surround Anyi in Wei State, and Anyi surrendered.
In the twelfth year, the city of Xianyang was built, Jique was built, and the Qin Dynasty moved its capital to Xianyang.
The small villages were merged into large counties, and each county was appointed with a county magistrate, for a total of 41 counties.
Plan the acres of land, set up fences, and expand the territory to the east of Luoshui.
In the fourteenth year, taxes began to be collected.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
十九年，天子致伯。
二十年，诸侯毕贺。
秦使公子少官率师会诸侯逢泽，朝天子。
二十一年，齐败魏马陵。
二十二年，卫鞅击魏，虏魏公子昂。
封鞅为列侯，号商君。
二十四年，与晋战雁门，虏其将魏错。
孝公卒，子惠文君立。
是岁，诛卫鞅。
鞅之初为秦施法，法不行，太子犯禁。
鞅曰： 法之不行，自于贵戚。君必欲行法，先于太子。
太子不可黥，黥其傅师。
于是法大用，秦人治。
及孝公卒，太子立，宗室多怨鞅，鞅亡，因以为反，而卒车裂以徇秦国。
惠文君元年，楚、韩、赵、蜀人来朝。
二年，天子贺。
三年，王冠。
四年，天子致文武胙。
齐、魏为王。
translation: 
In the 19th year, the emperor granted King Qin the title of uncle.
Twenty years later, all the princes came to congratulate him.
Qin sent his son, a young official, to lead his troops to make an alliance with the marquis at Fengze, and to meet the emperor.
In the 21st year, Qi defeated the Wei army in Maling.
In the 22nd year, Wei Yang attacked Wei and captured Wei Gongzi Yan.
Wei Yang was enfeoffed as a lord, known as "Shang Jun".
In the twenty-fourth year, he fought with Jin at Yanmen and captured the enemy general Wei Cuo.
When Duke Xiao died, his son Hui Wenjun came to the throne.
此年，处死卫鞅。
Wei Yang had just implemented a new law in the Qin State, but the new law could not be implemented. First of all, the prince violated the law.
Wei Yang said to Duke Xiao: The new law cannot be implemented. The resistance first comes from the nobles. If you are determined to implement the new law, you must start with the prince.
The prince should not inflict ink punishment, but his masters should be inflicted with tattoo punishment.
In this way, the new law was successfully implemented and the people of Qin were well governed.
When Duke Xiao died and the prince ascended the throne, many clan ministers resented Wei Yang. Wei Yang fled and was accused of rebellion. Finally, he broke his chariot and showed it to the public in Qin.
In the first year of Hui Wenjun's reign, Chu, Han, Zhao, Shu and other countries came to pay homage to him.
In the second year, the emperor congratulated Qin.
In the third year, Hui Wenjun held the crown ceremony.
In the fourth year, the emperor rewarded the king with sacrificial meat for King Wen and King Wu.
The kings of Qi and Wei called each other king.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
五年，阴晋人犀首为大良造。
六年，魏纳阴晋，阴晋更名宁秦。
七年，公子昂与魏战，虏其将龙贾，斩首八万。
八年，魏纳河西地。
九年，渡河，取汾阴、皮氏。
与魏王会应。
围焦，降之。
十年，张仪相秦。
魏纳上郡十五县。
十一年，县义渠。
归魏焦、曲沃。
义渠君为臣。
更名少梁曰夏阳。
十二年，初腊。
十三年四月戊午，魏君为王，韩亦为王。
使张仪伐取陕，出其人与魏。
十四年，更为元年。
二年，张仪与齐、楚大臣会啮桑。
三年，韩、魏太子来朝。张仪相魏。
五年，王游至北河。
七年，乐池相秦。
韩、赵、魏、燕、齐帅匈奴共攻秦。
秦使庶长疾与战修鱼，虏其将申差，败赵公子渴、韩太子奂，斩首八万二千。
八年，张仪复相秦。
九年，司马错伐蜀，灭之。
translation: 
In the fifth year, Xishou, a native of Yinjin, was granted the title of Daliang Zao.
In the sixth year, Wei ceded Yin Jin to Qin, and Yin Jin was renamed Ning Qin.
In the seventh year, Prince Yan fought with the Wei army, captured Wei general Long Jia, and beheaded 80,000 people.
In the eighth year, Wei ceded the land west of Hexi.
In the ninth year, he crossed the Yellow River eastward and occupied Fenyin and Pishi.
Meet with King Wei in Ying.
Surround the scorched area and force it to surrender.
Ten years later, Zhang Yi went to Qin to serve as prime minister.
Wei ceded fifteen counties to Shangjun.
In the eleventh year, a county was established in Yiqu.
Return Jiao and Quwo to Wei.
Lord Yiqu became a minister.
Shaoliang was renamed Xia Yang.
In the twelfth year, the wax festival began.
In the fourth month of the thirteenth year, Wei Jun was crowned king, and Han Jun was also crowned king.
He sent Zhang Yi to capture Shaanxi and expel its residents to Wei.
In the fourteenth year, the name was changed to the first year.
In the second year, Zhang Yi and the ministers of Qi and Chu met with Yu Zhisang.
Three years later, the princes of South Korea and Wei came to court, and Zhang Yi went to Wei to serve as prime minister.
In the fifth year, Wang patrolled as far as Beihe.
In the seventh year, Lechi went to Qin to serve as prime minister.
South Korea, Zhao, Wei, Yan, and Qi led the Huns to attack Qin together.
Qin's concubine Chang Liji fought with Xiuyu and captured his general Shen Chai. He defeated Zhao Gongzi Ke and Han Taizi Huan, and beheaded 82,000 people.
Eight years later, Zhang Yi came to Qin again to serve as prime minister.
In the ninth year, Sima mistakenly attacked Shu and destroyed it.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
伐取赵中都、西阳。
十年，韩太子苍来质。
伐取韩石章。
伐败赵将泥。
伐取义渠二十五城。
十一年，樗里疾攻魏焦，降之。
败韩岸门，斩首万，其将犀首走。
公子通封于蜀。
燕君让其臣子之。
十二年，王与梁王会临晋。
庶长疾攻赵，虏赵将庄。
张仪相楚。
十三年，庶长章击楚于丹阳，虏其将屈丐，斩首八万；又攻楚汉中，取地六百里，置汉中郡。
楚围雍氏，秦使庶长疾助韩而东攻齐，到满助魏攻燕。
十四年，伐楚，取召陵。
丹、犁臣，蜀相壮杀蜀侯来降。
惠王卒，子武王立。
韩、魏、齐、楚、越皆宾从。
武王元年，与魏襄王会临晋。
诛蜀相壮。
张仪、魏章皆东出之魏。
伐义渠、丹、犁。
二年，初置丞相，樗里疾、甘茂为左右丞相。
张仪死于魏。
三年，与韩襄王会临晋外。
南公揭卒，樗里疾相韩。
武王谓甘茂曰： 寡人欲容车通三川，窥周室，死不恨矣。
其秋，使甘茂、庶长封伐宜阳。
四年，拔宜阳，斩首六万。
涉河，城武遂。
魏太子来朝。
武王有力好戏，力士任鄙、乌获、孟说皆至大官。
王与孟说举鼎，绝膑。
translation: 
Capture Zhao's Zhongdu and Xiyang.
Ten years later, Prince Cang of Han entered Qin as a hostage.
Capture Han's Shizhang.
Defeat Zhao Jiangni.
Capture twenty-five cities in Yiqu.
In the eleventh year, Chuiliji attacked Wei's Jiaodi and forced it to surrender.
Defeated the Korean army at Anmen and beheaded 10,000 people. Han general Xishou escaped.
Gongzitong was granted the title of Shu.
Yan Jun gave way to his minister Zi Zhi.
In the twelfth year, the king and the king of Liang met in Linjin.
The concubine Zhang Qili quickly attacked the Zhao State and captured the Zhao general Zhao Zhuang.
Zhang Yi went to Chu State to serve as prime minister.
In the thirteenth year, the concubine Wei Zhang defeated the Chu army in Danyang, captured the Chu general Qu Gai, and beheaded 80,000 people. He also attacked Chu's Hanzhong County, occupied 600 miles of land, and established Hanzhong County.
Chu surrounded the Yong family, and Qin sent the concubine Chuiliji to help Han Dong attack Qi, and went to Manchu to help Wei attack Yan.
In the fourteenth year, he attacked Chu and captured Zhaoling.
Dan and Li became ministers, and Prime Minister Zhuang of Shu killed the princes of Shu and came to surrender.
King Hui died and his son King Wu came to the throne.
Han, Wei, Qi, Chu, and Yue all submitted.
In the first year of King Wu, he met with King Xiang of Wei in Linjin.
Xiang Zhuang of Shu was executed.
Zhang Yi and Wei Zhang both went east to the State of Wei.
Cut Yiqu, Dan, and plow.
In the second year, prime ministers were appointed, and Chuiliji and Gan Mao were appointed prime ministers of the left and right respectively.
Zhang Yi died in Wei.
Three years later, he met with King Xiang of Han outside Linjin.
Nangong was exposed to death, and Chuiliji went to South Korea to become the prime minister.
King Wu said to Gan Mao: I want to open a driveway directly to Sanchuan, so that I can see the Zhou family. Even if I die, I will have no regrets.
In the autumn of that year, he sent Gan Mao and Shu Changfeng to attack Yiyang.
In four years, he captured Yiyang and beheaded 60,000 people.
Cross the Yellow River and build the wall of Wusui City.
Prince Wei came to see him.
King Wu was powerful and liked competitions. The warriors Ren Bi, Wu Huo and Meng Shuo all became high officials.
King Wu competed with Meng Shuo to lift a tripod and broke his knee.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
八月，武王死。
族孟说。
武王取魏女为后，无子。
立异母弟，是为昭襄王。
昭襄母楚人，姓芈氏，号宣太后。
武王死时，昭襄王为质于燕，燕人送归，得立。
昭襄王元年，严君疾为相。
甘茂出之魏。
二年，彗星见。
庶长壮与大臣、诸侯、公子为逆，皆诛，及惠文后皆不得良死。
悼武王后出归魏。
三年，王冠。
与楚王会黄棘，与楚上庸。
四年，取蒲阪。
彗星见。
五年，魏王来朝应亭，复与魏蒲阪。
六年，蜀侯煇反，司马错定蜀。
庶长奂伐楚，斩首二万。
泾阳君质于齐。
日食，昼晦。
七年，拔新城。
樗里子卒。
八年，使将军芈戎攻楚，取新市。
齐使章子，魏使公孙喜，韩使暴鸢共攻楚方城，取唐眛。
赵破中山，其君亡，竟死齐。
魏公子劲、韩公子长为诸侯。
translation: 
In August, King Wu died.
Qin destroyed the Meng Shuo clan.
King Wu married a Wei woman as his queen, but he had no sons.
He established King Wu's half-brother as king, who was King Zhaoxiang.
King Zhaoxiang's mother was from Chu, with the surname Mi, and was known as the Queen Mother Xuan.
When King Wu died, King Zhaoxiang was a hostage in Yan. The Yan people sent him back to his country and he was able to ascend the throne.
In the first year of King Zhaoxiang's reign, Lord Yan Chuili became prime minister.
Gan Mao left for Wei.
Two years later, a comet appeared.
The concubine Changzhuang conspired with the ministers, princes, and princes to usurp the throne, and they were all executed. Empress Huiwen also did not die well.
Queen Wu Wu ran away and returned to Wei.
Three years later, the King of Qin held a crown ceremony.
He met with the King of Chu in Huang Chi and returned the land of Shangyong to Chu.
In four years, Pusaka was captured.
A comet appears.
In the fifth year, the king of Wei came to Yingting to pay homage and returned Puban to Wei.
In the sixth year, Hou Hui of Shu rebelled, and Sima Cuo put down the rebellion in Shu.
The concubine Huan attacked Chu and beheaded 20,000 people.
Lord Jingyang came to Qi as a hostage.
Solar eclipse, day and night.
In seven years, the new city was captured.
He died of illness in Qili.
In the eighth year, he sent general Mi Rong to attack Chu and occupy the new city.
Qi sent Zhang Zi, Wei sent Gongsun happy, and Han sent Bao Yuan to attack Chu's Fangcheng and captured Tang Juan.
Zhao conquered Zhongshan, and his king fled, eventually dying in Qi.
Wei Gongzi Jin and Han Gongzi Chang were granted the title of princes.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
九年，孟尝君薛文来相秦。
奂攻楚，取八城，杀其将景快。
十年，楚怀王入朝秦，秦留之。
薛文以金受免。
楼缓为丞相。
十一年，齐、韩、魏、赵、宋、中山五国共攻秦，至盐氏而还。
秦与韩、魏河北及封陵以和。
彗星见。
楚怀王走之赵，赵不受，还之秦，即死，归葬。
十二年，楼缓免，穰侯魏冉为相。
予楚粟五万石。
十三年，向寿伐韩，取武始。
左更白起攻新城。
五大夫礼出亡奔魏。
任鄙为汉中守。
十四年，左更白起攻韩、魏于伊阙，斩首二十四万，虏公孙喜，拔五城。
十五年，大良造白起攻魏，取垣，复予之。
攻楚，取宛。
十六年，左更错取轵及邓。
冉免，封公子市宛，公子悝邓，魏冉陶，为诸侯。
十七年，城阳君入朝，及东周君来朝。
秦以垣为蒲阪、皮氏。
translation: 
In the ninth year, Xue Wen, Lord Mengchang, went to Qin to serve as prime minister.
Huan attacked Chu, captured eight cities, and killed Chu general Jing Kuai.
Ten years later, King Huai of Chu came to see Qin, but Qin detained him.
Xue Wen was dismissed as prime minister because of his financial support.
Lou Xuan was appointed prime minister.
In the eleventh year, Qi, Han, Wei, Zhao, Song, Zhongshan and other five countries attacked Qin together and returned to Yanshi.
Qin gave Hebei and Fengling to Han and Wei for peace.
A comet appears.
King Huai of Chu fled to the State of Zhao, but the State of Zhao did not accept him and sent him back to the State of Qin. He died soon after and his body was returned to the State of Chu for burial.
In the twelfth year, Lou Huan was dismissed as prime minister, and Ranghou Wei Ran was appointed prime minister.
Qin gave Chu 50,000 shi of grain.
In the thirteenth year, Xiang Shou attacked South Korea and occupied Wu Shi.
Zuo Gengbai started to attack Xincheng.
Lu Li, the fifth official, fled to Wei.
Ren Bi was appointed as the governor of Hanzhong County.
In the fourteenth year, Zuo Gengbai attacked the armies of Han and Wei in Yique, beheaded 240,000 people, captured Gongsun happy, and captured five cities.
In the fifteenth year, Daliang Zaobai attacked Wei, occupied the wall, and then returned it to Wei.
Attack the Chu State and occupy Wan Di.
In the 16th year, Sima Cuo from Zuo Geng occupied Zhi and Deng.
Wei Ran was dismissed as prime minister. The prince was entrusted with the city of Wan, the prince was entrusted to Deng, and Wei Ran was entrusted to Tao, making them princes.
In the seventeenth year, the Lord of Chengyang came to see him, and at the same time the Lord of Dongzhou also came to see him.
Qin exchanged Yuan for Puban and Pishi.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
王之宜阳。
十八年，错攻垣、河雍，决桥取之。
十九年，王为西帝，齐为东帝，皆复去之。
吕礼来自归。
齐破宋，宋王在魏，死温。
任鄙卒。
二十年，王之汉中，又之上郡、北河。
二十一年，错攻魏河内。
魏献安邑，秦出其人，募徙河东赐爵，赦罪人迁之。
泾阳君封宛。
二十二年，蒙武伐齐。
河东为九县。
与楚王会宛。
与赵王会中阳。
二十三年，尉斯离与三晋、燕伐齐，破之济西。
王与魏王会宜阳，与韩王会新城。
二十四年，与楚王会鄢，又会穰。
秦取魏安城，至大梁，燕、赵救之，秦军去。
魏冉免相。
二十五年，拔赵二城。
与韩王会新城，与魏王会新明邑。
二十六年，赦罪人迁之穰。侯冉复相。
二十七年，错攻楚。
赦罪人迁之南阳。
translation: 
The king went to Yiyang.
In the eighteenth year, Sima Cuo attacked Dayuan and Heyong, demolished the river bridge and occupied this place.
In the 19th year, King Zhaoxiang was called the Western Emperor, and Qi was called the Eastern Emperor. Then they all gave up their imperial titles.
Lu Li surrendered.
Qi conquered Song, and the king of Song lived in Wei and died in Wen.
Ren Bi died.
Twenty years later, Wang went to Hanzhong. Then he went to Shangjun and Beihe.
In the 21st year, he mistakenly attacked Wei's Hanoi.
Wei offered Anyi, and Qin expelled its residents, used titles to recruit people to move to Hedong, and pardoned criminals to move to Anyi.
Feng Jingyangjun was in Wandi.
In the twenty-second year, Meng Wu attacked Qi.
There are nine counties in Hedong.
Meet Yu Wan with the King of Chu.
Meet with King Zhao in Zhongyang.
In the twenty-third year, Wei Sili, together with the three Jin and Yan forces, attacked Qi and defeated the Qi army on the west bank of Jishui River.
The king met with the king of Wei in Yiyang, and with the king of Han in Xincheng.
In the twenty-fourth year, he met with the King of Chu, Yu Yan, and then with Yu Rang.
Qin captured Wei's Ancheng and marched to Daliang. Yan and Zhao rescued Wei. The Qin army retreated.
Wei Ran was dismissed as prime minister.
In twenty-five years, two Zhao cities were captured.
The King of Qin and the King of Han met in Xincheng, and the King of Wei met in Xinmingyi.
In the twenty-sixth year, the criminals were pardoned and moved to Rang, and Ranghou was appointed prime minister again.
In the twenty-seventh year, Sima Cuo attacked Chu.
The criminals were pardoned and moved to Nanyang.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
白起攻赵，取代光狼城。
又使司马错发陇西，因蜀攻楚黔中，拔之。
二十八年，大良造白起攻楚，取鄢、邓，赦罪人迁之。
二十九年，大良造白起攻楚，取郢为南郡，楚王走。
周君来。
王与楚王会襄陵。
白起为武安君。
三十年，蜀守若伐楚，取巫郡，及江南为黔中郡。
三十一年，白起伐魏，取两城。
楚人反我江南。
三十二年，相穰侯攻魏，至大梁，破暴鸢，斩首四万，鸢走，魏入三县请和。
三十三年，客卿胡阳攻魏卷、蔡阳、长社，取之。
击芒卯华阳，破之，斩首十五万。
魏入南阳以和。
三十四年，秦与魏、韩上庸地为一郡，南阳免臣迁居之。
三十五年，佐韩、魏、楚伐燕。
初置南阳郡。
三十六年，客卿灶攻齐，取刚、寿，予穰侯。
三十八年，中更胡阳攻赵阏与，不能取。
四十年，悼太子死魏，归葬芷阳。
四十一年夏，攻魏，取邢丘、怀。
四十二年，安国君为太子。
十月，宣太后薨，葬芷阳郦山。
九月，穰侯出之陶。
translation: 
Bai Qi attacked Zhao and occupied the Guanglang City of Dai.
He also sent Sima Cuo to send troops to Longxi County to attack Chu's Qianzhong County via Shu and captured it.
In the twenty-eighth year, Daliang Zaobai attacked Chu, occupied Yan and Deng, and pardoned the criminals and moved to that place.
In the 29th year, Daliang Zaobai attacked Chu, occupied Ying and established it as Nanjun. The king of Chu fled.
Zhou Jun came to congratulate.
The King of Qin and the King of Chu met in Xiangling.
Bai Qi was named Lord Wu'an.
In the 30th year, Zhang Ruo, the governor of Shu County, attacked Chu, occupied Wu County and Jiangnan, and established it as Qianzhong County.
In the thirty-first year, Bai Qi attacked Wei and captured two cities.
The Chu people rebelled in the land south of the Yangtze River occupied by our country.
In the 32nd year, Prime Minister Ranghou attacked Wei and reached Daliang. He defeated Baoyuan's army and beheaded 40,000 people. Baoyuan was defeated and fled, and Wei ceded three counties to seek peace.
In the thirty-third year, Hu Yang, the guest minister, attacked Juan, Caiyang, and Changshe of Wei State and occupied them.
Attacked Mangmao in Huayang, defeated the enemy army, and beheaded 150,000 people.
Wei ceded Nanyang to seek peace.
In the thirty-fourth year, Qin merged Wei, Han and Shangyong into one county, and moved the pardoned criminal officials of Nanyang to this place.
Thirty-five years later, he helped Han, Wei, and Chu defeat Yan.
Nanyang County was established.
In the thirty-sixth year, Ke Qingzao attacked Qi, occupied Gang and Shou, and granted Ranghou.
In the thirty-eighth year, Zhong Geng Hu Shang attacked Zhao Yu and failed to capture it.
Forty years later, the crown prince died in Wei and was buried in Zhiyang.
In the summer of the 41st year, he attacked Wei and occupied Xingqiu and Huai.
In the forty-second year, An Guojun was established as the prince.
In October, Empress Dowager Xuan died and was buried in Lishan Mountain in Zhiyang.
In September, Marquis Rang left the court and returned to Taodi.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
四十三年，武安君白起攻韩，拔九城，斩首五万。
四十四年，攻韩南阳，取之。
四十五年，五大夫贲攻韩，取十城。
叶阳君悝出之国，未至而死。
四十七年，秦攻韩上党，上党降赵，秦因攻赵，赵发兵击秦，相距。
秦使武安君白起击，大破赵于长平，四十余万尽杀之。
四十八年十月，韩献垣雍。
秦军分为三军。
武安君归。
王龁将伐赵武安、皮牢，拔之。
司马梗北定太原，尽有韩上党。
正月，兵罢，复守上党。
其十月，五大夫陵攻赵邯郸。
四十九年正月，益发卒佐陵。
陵战不善，免，王龁代将。
其十月，将军张唐攻魏，为蔡尉捐弗守，还斩之。
五十年十月，武安君白起有罪，为士伍，迁阴密。
张唐攻郑，拔之。
十二月，益发卒军汾城旁。
武安君白起有罪，死。
龁攻邯郸，不拔，去，还奔汾军二月余。
攻晋军，斩首六千，晋楚流死河二万人。
攻汾城，即从唐拔宁新中，宁新中更名安阳。
初作河桥。
五十一年，将军摎攻韩，取阳城、负黍，斩首四万。
攻赵，取二十余县，首虏九万。
translation: 
Forty-three years. Wu'an Junbai attacked Han, captured nine cities, and beheaded 50,000 people.
In the forty-fourth year, he attacked Han Nanyang and occupied it.
In the forty-fifth year, Ben, the fifth official, attacked Han and captured ten cities.
Ye Yangjun's son Kui ran away to his feudal country, but died before he arrived.
In the forty-seventh year, Qin attacked Han's Shangdang County. Shangdang County surrendered to Zhao. Qin attacked Zhao again. Zhao sent troops to meet Qin. The two armies were at a stalemate.
Qin sent Bai Qi, Lord Wu'an, to attack and defeated the Zhao army in Changping. All 400,000 surrendered soldiers were killed.
In October of the 48th year, South Korea presented Yuan Yong.
The Qin army was divided into three armies.
Lord Wu An returns to his country.
Wang Lu led his troops to attack Wu'an and Pilao of Zhao and occupied them.
Sima Geng moved north to Taiyuan and occupied all of Han's Shangdang County.
In the first month of the year, the war ceased and Shangdang County was defended.
In October of that year, Wu Dafuling attacked Handan, the capital of Zhao.
In the first month of the forty-ninth year, conscription was expanded to reinforce the mausoleum.
Ling's performance was poor and he was dismissed from his post, and Wang Lu was appointed to lead the army in his place.
In October of that year, General Zhang Tang attacked Wei. Because Cai Wei abandoned the city and did not defend it, he was beheaded after returning.
In October of the fiftieth year, Bai Qi, Lord Wu'an, committed a crime and was demoted to the rank of scholar, and was assigned to the secret service.
Zhang Tang attacked Zheng and captured it.
In December, the army was recruited and stationed near Fencheng.
Bai Qi, Lord Wu'an, committed a crime and was executed.
Wang Luo attacked Handan but failed to capture it, so he withdrew and rushed back to Fencheng to garrison for more than two months.
Attacked the Wei army and beheaded 6,000 people, and 20,000 people from the Wei and Chu coalition forces died in the Yellow River.
Attacked Fencheng, and then followed Zhang Tang's army to capture Ningxinzhong, which was renamed Anyang.
The Yellow River Bridge was built for the first time.
In the fifty-first year, the general attacked Han, captured Yangcheng and Fushu, and beheaded 40,000 people.
Attacked Zhao State, occupied more than 20 counties, beheaded 90,000 prisoners.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
西周君背秦，与诸侯约从，将天下锐兵出伊阙攻秦，令秦毋得通阳城。
于是秦使将军摎攻西周。
西周君走来自归，顿首受罪，尽献其邑三十六城，口三万。
秦王受献，归其君于周。
五十二年，周民东亡，其器九鼎入秦。周初亡。
五十三年，天下来宾。
魏后，秦使摎伐魏，取吴城。
韩王入朝，魏委国听令。
五十四年，王郊见上帝于雍。
五十六年秋，昭襄王卒，子孝文王立。
尊唐八子为唐太后，而合其葬于先王。
韩王衰绖入吊祠，诸侯皆使其将相来吊祠，视丧事。
孝文王元年，赦罪人，修先王功臣，褒厚亲戚，弛苑囿。
孝文王除丧，十月己亥即位，三日辛丑卒，子庄襄王立。
庄襄王元年，大赦罪人，修先王功臣，施德厚骨肉而布惠于民。
translation: 
The king of the Western Zhou Dynasty betrayed Qin, joined forces with the princes, and led the world's best troops out of Yique to attack Qin, preventing Qin from reaching Yangcheng.
Therefore, Qin ordered his generals to attack the Western Zhou Dynasty.
The king of Western Zhou hurriedly came to surrender, kowtowed and confessed his crime, and gave all his thirty-six cities with a population of thirty thousand.
The King of Qin accepted the offer and released him back to Zhou.
In the fifty-second year, the people of the Western Zhou Dynasty fled to the Eastern Zhou Dynasty. The nine tripods, Zhou's treasures, were moved to the Qin State, and the Zhou Dynasty was initially destroyed.
Fifty-three years later, the whole world came to submit.
Wei fell last, so Qin sent generals to attack Wei and captured Wucheng.
The king of Han came to see him; the king of Wei also entrusted the country to Qin to obey his orders.
In the fifty-fourth year, the King of Qin worshiped the Emperor of Heaven in the southern suburbs of Yongcheng.
In the autumn of the fifty-sixth year, King Zhaoxiang died, and his son King Xiaowen came to the throne.
The eighth son of the Tang Dynasty was respected as the Empress Dowager of the Tang Dynasty and was buried with King Zhaoxiang. The King of Han put on mourning clothes to express his condolences.
The princes also sent their generals to express their condolences and attend the funeral.
In the first year of King Xiaowen's reign, criminals were granted amnesty, the former king's meritorious officials were still reused, clan relatives were given preferential treatment, and the royal family's gardens were opened to the public.
King Xiaowen's period of mourning expired and he ascended the throne on Jihai day in October. He died on Xinchou day in just three days, and his son King Zhuang Xiang came to the throne.
In the first year of King Zhuang Xiang's reign, he granted a general amnesty to criminals. He still reused the heroes of the previous king, extended benevolence, treated relatives favorably, and extended grace to the people.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
东周君与诸侯谋秦，秦使相国吕不韦诛之，尽入其国。
秦不绝其祀，以阳人地赐周君，奉其祭祀。
使蒙骜伐韩，韩献成皋、巩。
秦界至大梁，初置三川郡。
二年，使蒙骜攻赵，定太原。
三年，蒙骜攻魏高都、汲，拔之。
攻赵榆次、新城、狼孟，取三十七城。
四月日食。
王龁攻上党。初置太原郡。
魏将无忌率五国兵击秦，秦却于河外。
蒙骜败，解而去。
五月丙午，庄襄王卒，子政立，是为秦始皇帝。
秦王政立二十六年，初并天下为三十六郡，号为始皇帝。
始皇帝五十一年而崩，子胡亥立，是为二世皇帝。
三年，诸侯并起叛秦，赵高杀二世，立子婴。
子婴立月余，诸侯诛之，遂灭秦。
其语在始皇本纪中。
太史公曰：秦之先为嬴姓。
translation: 
The king of Eastern Zhou and the princes planned to attack Qin. Qin sent Prime Minister Lu Buwei to attack him and merge all his lands into Qin's territory.
However, Qin did not interrupt his sacrificial tradition and gave the land of Yangren to Zhou Jun, allowing him to continue his sacrificial rituals.
He sent Meng Ao to attack Han, and Han sacrificed Cheng Gao and Gong.
Qin's territory expanded to Daliang, and Sanchuan County was established.
In the second year, he sent Meng Ao to attack Zhao and pacify Taiyuan.
In the third year, Meng Ao attacked Wei's Gaodu and Ji and captured them.
Meng Ao also attacked Yuci, Xincheng and Langmeng of Zhao State, capturing thirty-seven cities.
A solar eclipse occurs in April.
Wang Lu attacked Shangdang and began to establish Taiyuan County.
Wei general Wuji led the troops of the five countries to counterattack the Qin army, and the Qin army retreated to the south of the Yellow River.
Meng Ao lost the battle, got rid of the siege and evacuated.
On Bingwu in the fifth month, King Zhuang Xiang died, and his son Ying Zheng ascended the throne, becoming the first emperor of Qin.
In the twenty-sixth year after King Yingzheng of Qin came to the throne, he began to unite the world and establish thirty-six counties, known as the First Emperor.
The First Emperor died at the age of fifty-one, and his son Hu Hai ascended the throne and became the second emperor.
In the third year of the Second Emperor's reign, the princes rebelled against the Qin Dynasty one after another. Zhao Gao killed the Second Emperor and made Ziying emperor.
More than a month after Ziying took the throne, the princes killed him again, and the Qin Dynasty was destroyed.
The detailed description can be found in "The Chronicles of Qin Shihuang".
Tai Shigong said: The ancestors of Qin were named Ying.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
其后分封，以国为姓，有徐氏、郯氏、莒氏、终黎氏、运奄氏、菟裘氏、将梁氏、黄氏、江氏、修鱼氏、白冥氏、蜚廉氏、秦氏。
然秦以其先造父封赵城，为赵氏。
translation: 
His descendants were divided into various places and took the feudal country as their surname. They include the Xu family, the Tan family, the Ju family, the Zhongli family, the Yunxiang family, the Tuqiu family, the Jiangliang family, the Huang family, the Jiang family, the Xiuyu family, the Baiming family, the Feilian family, and the Qin family.
However, Qin was granted the title of Zhao City because of his ancestor Zaofu, who was also called the Zhao family.


