Summary uses chunk [6]

Chunk 6: 
original: 
婴乃不敢为王，谓其军吏曰： 项氏世世将家，有功于楚，今欲举大事，非将其人，不可。
我倚名族，亡秦必矣。
其众从之，乃以其兵属梁。
梁渡淮，英布、蒲将军亦以其兵属焉。
凡六七万人，军下邳。
是时，秦嘉已立景驹为楚王，军彭城东，欲以距梁。
梁谓军吏曰： 陈王首事，战不利，未闻所在。
今秦嘉背陈王立景驹，大逆亡道。 乃引兵击秦嘉。嘉军败走，追至胡陵。
嘉还战一日，嘉死，军降。
景驹走死梁地。
梁已并秦嘉军，军胡陵，将引而西。
章邯至栗，梁使别将朱鸡石、馀樊君与战。
馀樊君死。朱鸡石败，亡走胡陵。
梁乃引兵入薛，诛朱鸡石。
梁前使羽别攻襄城，襄城坚守不下。
已拔，皆坑之，还报梁，闻陈王定死，召诸别将会薛计事。
时沛公亦从沛往。
居鄛人范增年七十，素好奇计，往说梁曰： 陈胜败固当。
夫秦灭六国，楚最亡罪，自怀王入秦不反，楚人怜之至今，故南以称曰 楚虽三户，亡秦必楚 。今陈胜首事，不立楚后，其势不长。
今君起江东，楚蜂起之将皆争附君者，以君世世楚将，为能复立楚之后也。
于是梁乃求楚怀王孙心，在民间为人牧羊，立以为楚怀王，从民望也。
陈婴为上柱国，封五县，与怀王都盱台。
梁自号武信君，引兵攻亢父。
初，章邯既杀齐王田儋于临菑，田假复自立为齐王。
儋弟荣走保东阿，章邯追围之。
梁引兵救东阿，大破秦军东阿。
田荣即引兵归，逐王假，假亡走楚，相田角亡走赵。
角弟駹，故将，居赵不敢归。
田荣立儋子市为齐王。
梁己破东阿下军，遂追秦军。
数使使趣齐兵俱西。荣曰： 楚杀田假，赵杀田角、田駹，乃发兵。
梁曰： 田假与国之王，穷来归我，不忍杀。
赵亦不杀角、駹以市于齐。
齐遂不肯发兵助楚。
染使羽与沛公别攻城阳，屠之。
西破秦军濮阳东，秦兵收入濮阳。
沛公、羽攻定陶，定陶未下，去，西略地至雍丘，大破秦军，斩李由。
还攻外黄，外黄未下。
梁起东阿，比至定陶，再破秦军，羽等又斩李由，益轻秦，有骄色。
宋义谏曰： 战胜而将骄卒惰者败。
今少惰矣，秦兵日益，臣为君畏之。
梁不听。乃使宋义于齐。
道遇齐使者高陵君显，曰： 公将见武信君乎？
translation: 
Chen Ying did not dare to claim the throne and said to his officers: "The surname Xiang has been a general for generations and is very famous in the Chu Kingdom." If you want to do big things now, the coach must be this kind of person.
We rely on famous families and the destruction of the Qin Dynasty is certain.
So everyone obeyed his words and put the troops under Xiang Liang's command.
Xiang Liang crossed the Huaihe River, and generals Yingbu and Pu also brought their troops to join him.
A total of 60,000 to 70,000 people were stationed at the craft.
At this time, Qin Jia had already elected Jing Ju as the king of Chu, and stationed troops in Pengcheng with their faces restrained, hoping to resist Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang told the officers: King Chen started the rebellion first, and the battle was unfavorable. His whereabouts are unknown.
Now Qin Jia betrayed King Chen and supported Jing Ju, which was a treasonous act, so he marched to attack Qin Jia. Qin Jia's army was defeated and fled, and Xiang Liang pursued him to Hu Ling.
Qin Jia returned to the army and fought for one day. Qin Jia died in the battle and the army surrendered.
Jingju fled and died in Liangdi.
Xiang Liang annexed Qin Jia's army and garrisoned Huling. Will he lead his troops to the west?
Zhang Han's army arrived in Li County, and Xiang Liang sent Zhujishi and Yu Fanjun, generals from another army, to fight.
Yu Fanjun died in battle, Zhujishi's army was defeated and fled to Huling.
Xiang Liang led his army into Xue County and killed Zhujishi.
Xiang Liang had previously sent Xiang Yu to attack Xiangcheng separately. The officers and soldiers of Xiangcheng held on and could not be captured for a while.
After conquering them, Xiang Yu buried them all alive and then came back to report to Xiang Liang. When Xiang Liang heard that King Chen was indeed dead, he summoned all the generals to Xue County to discuss military affairs.
At this time, Pei Gong also raised troops in Peixian County and came to attend the meeting.
Fan Zeng, a seventy-year-old native of Juhu, who was always good at coming up with unexpected plans, went to persuade Xiang Liang and said: "Chen Sheng's failure is inevitable."
The Qin Dynasty destroyed six kingdoms, and Chu was the most innocent. Since King Huai went to Qin and never returned, the people of Chu missed him to this day. Therefore, Duke Nan of Chu said: Even if there are only three families left in Chu, Chu will definitely be the one who destroys Qin. Now Chen Sheng is the first to rise up and proclaim himself king without supporting the descendants of King Chu. His power cannot last long.
Now you have raised troops in Jiangshu, and the reason why the generals in Chu are swarming to follow you is because your family has been the generals of Chu for generations and can support the descendants of the King of Chu again.
So Xiang Liang found the grandson of King Huai of Chu from the people, who was tending sheep for others, and supported him as King Huai of Chu to comply with the people's wishes.
Chen Ying served as the Shangzhu State of Chu State, granted five counties, and established Xutai as the capital with King Huai.
Xiang Liang called himself Lord Wu Xin and led his army to attack Kang's father.
At the beginning, Zhang Han killed Qi King Tian Dan in Linpu, and Tian Jia established himself as Qi King.
Tian Dan's brother Tian Rong retreated to Shu'a, and Zhang Han pursued and surrounded Tian Rong's army.
Xiang Liang led troops to rescue Shu'a and defeated the Qin army in Shu'a.
Tian Rong went back with his troops and expelled King Tianjia of Qi. Tianjia fled to Chu State. Tian Jiao, the prime minister of Tianjia, fled to Zhao.
Tian Jiao's younger brother Tian Xian was originally a general of Qi State, but he lived in Zhao State and did not dare to go back.
Tian Rong supported Tian Dan's son Tian Shi as King of Qi.
Xiang Liang defeated the Qin army in the Dong'a area and pursued it.
Several envoys were sent to urge the Qi army to march west together: Tian Rong said that if Chu killed Tian Jia, Zhao would kill Tian Jiao and Tian Xian. We just sent troops.
Xiang Liang said: Tianjia is the king of the allied countries. He came to me in desperation and couldn't bear to kill him.
The State of Zhao also refused to kill Tian Jiao and Tian Xian to make a deal with the State of Qi.
Qi finally refused to send troops to help the Chu army.
Xiang Liang sent Xiang Yu and Pei Gong to attack Chengyang from another route and massacred the entire city.
Moving further west, the Qin army was defeated east of Puyang, and the Qin army withdrew its troops and retreated into Puyang City.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu attacked Dingtao. Dingtao was not captured, so he withdrew, captured the territory to the west, and reached Yongqiu, where he defeated the Qin army and killed Li You.
He returned to attack Waihuang, but Waihuang was not captured.
Xiang Liang set out from Dong'a, and when he arrived at Dingtao, he defeated the Qin army again. Xiang Yu and others killed Li You again, showing contempt for the Qin army even more, showing a proud look.
Song Yi advised Xiang Liang: If you win a battle, if the generals are proud and the soldiers are lazy, they will fail.
Now the soldiers are a little lazy, and the number of Qin soldiers is increasing day by day. I am worried about you.
Xiang Liang ignored him and sent Song Yi as envoy to Qi.
Song Yi met Qi's envoy Gaoling Junxian on the road and asked him: "Are you going to see Jun Wu Xin?"

summary:
summary line 0: Chen Sheng, courtesy name She, was from Yangcheng, and Wu Guang, courtesy name Shu, was from Yangxia. When Chen She was young, he worked as a hired farmhand. Once, while resting, he expressed frustration and told his fellow workers that if they became rich, they should not forget each other. They laughed at him, but Chen Sheng sighed, "How can a sparrow know the ambition of a swan?" In the autumn of the first year of Qin II, the government sent 900 people, including Chen Sheng and Wu Guang as village chiefs, to guard Yuyang. They encountered heavy rain in Qidaze Township, blocking the road and causing them to miss the deadline, which was punishable by beheading. Chen Sheng and Wu Guang discussed that escaping or rising up both led to death, so they decided to die for the state. Chen Sheng noted that the people had long suffered under Qin's harsh rule. He proposed pretending to be Fusu, the eldest son of the First Emperor, and Xiang Yan, a beloved Chu general, to gain support. Wu Guang agreed. They consulted a fortune teller who hinted at using ghosts and gods to gain prestige. They wrote "King Chen Sheng" on silk and hid it in a fish, which soldiers found. Chen Sheng also had Wu Guang imitate a fox's cry at night, shouting, "Great Chu is rising, King Chen Sheng." The soldiers were frightened and talked about it the next day. Chen Sheng and Wu Guang, known for their kindness, killed the two escorting generals after Wu Guang provoked them. Chen Sheng addressed the soldiers, saying that missing the deadline meant death, and that strong men should leave a great name. The soldiers agreed, and they staged an uprising, pretending to be Fusu and Xiang Yan. They attacked Daze Township, Qixian, and other counties, recruiting troops along the way. By the time they reached Chen County, they had six to seven hundred chariots, over a thousand cavalry, and tens of thousands of infantry. They captured Chen County, and the local elders declared Chen Sheng king, known as Zhang Chu. Many counties killed their Qin officials in response. Chen Sheng appointed Wu Guang as acting king to attack Rongyang, and sent others to capture Zhao, Jiujiang, and Wei. Ge Ying, sent to capture territory, established Xiang Qiang as King of Chu but later killed him upon hearing of Chen Sheng's kingship. Chen Sheng then killed Ge Ying. Wu Guang besieged Rongyang but could not capture it. Chen Sheng appointed Zhou Wen as general to attack Qin. Zhou Wen gathered troops and reached Hangu Pass, but Qin general Zhang Han defeated him. Zhou Wen committed suicide after several defeats. Wu Chen proclaimed himself King of Zhao, angering Chen Sheng, but Cai Ci advised against killing his family. Chen Sheng sent an envoy to congratulate Zhao and moved the family to the palace. Zhao decided not to march west but to expand north into Yan. Han Guang, sent to attack Yan, was advised to proclaim himself King of Yan, which he did. Tian Dan killed the magistrate of Di County and proclaimed himself King of Qi, attacking Zhou Shi. Zhou Shi returned to Wei and made Ningling Junjiu King of Wei. Tian Zang and others killed Wu Guang, claiming he was arrogant and incompetent. Chen Sheng made Tian Zang a general, but he was killed by Zhang Han. Deng Yue and Wu Feng fled to Chen County after defeats. Chen Sheng killed Deng Shuo. Qin Jia and others independently raised armies. Chen Sheng sent Wu Ping Junpan to oversee them, but Qin Jia killed him. Zhang Han attacked Chen County, and Chen Sheng personally led the battle but was defeated. In December, Chen Sheng's coachman Zhuangmai killed him and surrendered to Qin. Chen Sheng was buried in Ci County. His old minister Lu Chen raised a "Cangtou Army," killed Zhuangmai, and made Chen County the capital of Chu. Song Liu, sent to pacify Nanyang, surrendered to Qin after hearing of Chen Sheng's death. Qin Jia appointed Jing Ju as King of Chu. Chen Sheng reigned for six months. His old friends came to see him but were killed for speaking freely, causing others to leave. Chen Sheng appointed Zhu Fang and Hu Wu, who were harsh, leading to his failure. Despite his death, the generals he appointed eventually destroyed Qin. Emperor Gaozu arranged for sacrifices to Chen Sheng's tomb, which continued until Wang Mang's time. Xiang Ji, courtesy name Yu, was from Xiaxiang. His uncle was Xiang Liang, son of Xiang Yan, a famous Chu general. The Xiang family had been generals for generations. Xiang Ji learned writing and swordsmanship but gave up, wanting to learn to resist tens of thousands. Xiang Liang taught him the art of war, but Xiang Ji only learned a little. Xiang Liang killed someone and fled to Wuzhong with Xiang Ji. When Qin Shihuang traveled to Kuaiji, Xiang Ji said, "We can replace him," shocking Xiang Liang. Xiang Ji was eight feet two inches tall, could lift a cauldron, and was feared by the youth of Wuzhong. In the first year of Qin II, Yin Tong, the acting governor of Kuaiji, discussed rebellion with Xiang Liang. Xiang Liang had Xiang Ji kill Yin Tong, then took control of the county, raising 8,000 elite soldiers. Xiang Liang became general of Kuaiji, with Xiang Ji as deputy. In the second year, Xiang Liang led 8,000 men across the Yangtze River. Chen Ying, who had raised 20,000 men in Dongyang, joined him on his mother's advice. Xiang Liang crossed the Huai River, and Yingbu and others joined him, totaling 60,000-70,000 men. Xiang Liang attacked Qin Jia, who had betrayed Chen Sheng, and killed him. He then heard of Chen Sheng's death and summoned generals to Xue County. Fan Zeng advised Xiang Liang to support a descendant of King Huai of Chu. Xiang Liang found King Huai's grandson, who was tending sheep, and made him King Huai of Chu. Xiang Liang called himself Lord Wu Xin. He defeated Qin forces at Dong'a and Dingtao but became arrogant. Song Yi warned him, but Xiang Liang ignored him. Qin reinforced Zhang Han, who defeated and killed Xiang Liang at Dingtao. Xiang Yu and Pei Gong retreated. Zhang Han, thinking Chu was weak, crossed the Yellow River to attack Zhao, besieging Julu. King Huai of Chu appointed Song Yi as general, with Xiang Yu as second-in-command, to rescue Zhao. Song Yi stopped at Anyang, refusing to advance. Xiang Yu killed Song Yi, claiming he was a traitor, and became general. He led troops across the Zhang River, sinking ships and burning supplies, and defeated the Qin army at Julu, killing Su Jiao and capturing Wang Li. The Chu army became dominant among the princes. Zhang Han, fearing Zhao Gao, surrendered to Xiang Yu after negotiations. Xiang Yu made Zhang Han King Yong and placed him in the Chu army. He then killed over 200,000 surrendered Qin soldiers at night. Xiang Yu entered Hangu Pass and arrived at Hongmen. Pei Gong had captured Xianyang, and Xiang Yu was angry. Fan Zeng advised attacking Pei Gong, but Xiang Bo saved him. Xiang Yu sacked Xianyang, killed Qin's prince, and burned the palace. He killed Han Sheng for criticizing him. Xiang Yu betrayed the agreement that the first to enter Guanzhong would be king. He moved King Huai to Changsha and divided the world, making Pei Gong King of Han, and others kings. He proclaimed himself Overlord of Western Chu. Tian Rong rebelled, and Xiang Yu attacked Qi, killing many. The King of Han attacked Chu, but Xiang Yu defeated him at Pengcheng, killing over 100,000 Han soldiers. The King of Han escaped and gathered troops. Xiang Yu besieged Rongyang, but the King of Han escaped. Fan Zeng died after being suspected. Xiang Yu defeated Peng Yue but lost Chenggao. He made a pact with the King of Han to divide the world, but the King of Han broke it. Xiang Yu was besieged at Gaixia, hearing Chu songs from all sides. He sang a tragic song, then escaped with 800 cavalry. Only 28 remained. He killed many Han soldiers but was surrounded. He refused to cross the Wu River, saying he had no face to see his people. He killed himself, and his body was divided by five Han soldiers. The King of Han buried him and spared his family. The text concludes with a praise, discussing Qin's rise and fall, and criticizing Xiang Yu's arrogance and failure to learn from the past.

