Chunk 0: 
original: 
陈胜字涉，阳城人。
吴广，字叔，阳夏人也。
胜少时，尝与人佣耕。
辍耕之垄上，怅然甚久，曰： 苟富贵，无相忘！
佣者笑而应曰： 若为佣耕，何富贵也？
胜太息曰： 嗟乎，燕雀安知鸿鹄之志哉！
秦二世元年秋七月，发闾左戍渔阳九百人，胜、广皆为屯长。
行至蕲大泽乡，会天大雨，道不通，度已失期。
失期法斩，胜、广乃谋曰： 今亡亦死，举大计亦死，等死，死国可乎？
胜曰： 天下苦秦久矣。
吾闻二世，少子，不当立，当立者乃公子扶苏。
扶苏以数谏故不得立，上使外将兵。
今或闻无罪，二世杀之。
百姓多闻其贤，未知其死。
项燕为楚将，数有功，爱士卒，楚人怜之。
或以为在。今诚以吾众为天下倡，宜多应者。
广以为然。
乃行卜。
卜者知其指意，曰： 足下事皆成，有功。
然足下卜之鬼乎！
胜、广喜，念鬼，曰： 此教我先威众耳。
乃丹书帛曰 陈胜王 ，置人所罾鱼腹中。
卒买鱼烹食，得书，已怪之矣。
又间令广之次所旁丛祠中，夜构火，狐鸣呼曰： 大楚兴，陈胜王。
卒皆夜惊恐。
旦日，卒中往往指目胜、广。
胜、广素爱人，士卒多为用。
将尉醉，广故数言欲亡，忿尉，令辱之，以激怒其众。
尉果笞广。
尉剑挺，广起夺而杀尉。
胜佐之，并杀两尉。
召令徒属曰： 公等遇雨，皆已失期，当斩。
translation: 
Chen Sheng, courtesy name She, was born in Yangcheng.
Wu Guang, courtesy name Shu, was from Yangxia.
When Chen She was young, he and others were hired to farm.
Once I was resting on the ridge of the field. I was frustrated for a long time and said: If you become rich, no one should forget the other.
The fellows who were employed laughed and asked: "You are hired to plow the fields. What wealth do you get?"
Chen Sheng sighed and said: Alas, how can a sparrow know the ambition of a swan?
In the autumn and July of the first year of Qin II, the government fine-tuned the households on the left side of Juli Lane to guard the border and went to Yuyang with 900 people. Chen Sheng and Wu Guang both served as village chiefs.
When we walked to Qidaze Township, it was raining heavily and the roads were blocked, so we probably missed the registration deadline.
If you miss the deadline, you will be beheaded according to the law. Chen Sheng and Wu Guang said together: "To escape now is to die. To rise up and do something big is to die. The same is to die. Is it okay to die in state affairs?"
Chen Sheng said: The people of the world have suffered from the violent Qin rule for a long time.
I heard that the second emperor was a young son and should not succeed to the throne. The son Fusu should succeed.
Fusu could not be established as crown prince due to repeated admonitions, so the First Emperor sent him to lead troops elsewhere.
Now it was heard that he was not guilty, and II killed him.
The common people had heard that Fusu was a capable person, but they didn't know that he was dead.
Xiang Yan was a general of the Chu State. He had made many meritorious deeds and loved his soldiers. All the people of the Chu State loved him.
Now if we pretend to be Fu Su and Xiang Yan and take the lead for the people of the world, many people should respond.
Wu Guang thought he was right.
So he went to divination.
The fortune tellers understood their intentions and said: All your affairs will come true and you will achieve great success.
But you have to ask ghosts and gods for divination!
Chen Sheng and Wu Guang were very happy. After thinking about the matter of asking ghosts, they said: This is to teach us to gain prestige among people through ghosts and gods.
So they wrote the words "King Chen Sheng" on the silk with cinnabar, and secretly stuffed it into the belly of the fish that others had picked up with a fishing net.
It was strange that the soldiers of the garrison bought fish and cooked it, but found the silk book in the fish's belly.
Chen Sheng also privately asked Wu Guang to go to the shrine in the woods where he was stationed. He lit a fire at night, pretended to be a fox and howled and shouted: "Great Chu is rising, King Chen Sheng."
The garrison soldiers were frightened and restless at night.
The next morning, the garrison soldiers were talking about this everywhere, pointing and looking at Chen Sheng and Wu Guang.
Chen Sheng and Wu Guang have always been considerate of others, and many people in the garrison were willing to listen to their orders.
The general escorting the garrison was drunk. Wu Guang deliberately threatened to run away many times to anger the general and let him humiliate him in public to anger everyone.
As expected, the general whipped Wu Guang.
When the general drew his sword, Wu Guang rose up to grab the sword and kill the general.
Chen Sheng also came to help, and together they killed the two generals.
He summoned his subordinates and said: "You are caught in the rain and have missed the deadline. If you miss the deadline, you should be beheaded."


Chunk 1: 
original: 
藉弟令毋斩，而戍死者固什六七。
且壮士不死则已，死则举大名耳。
侯王将相，宁有种乎！
徒属皆曰： 敬受令。
乃诈称公子扶苏、项燕，从民望也。
袒右，称大楚。
为坛而盟，祭以尉首。
胜自立为将军，广为都尉。
攻大泽乡，拔之。
收兵而攻蕲，蕲下。
乃令符离人葛婴将兵徇蕲以东，攻铚、酂、苦、柘、谯，皆下之。
行收兵，比至陈，兵车六七百乘，骑千余，卒数万人。
攻陈，陈守令皆不在，独守丞与战谯门中。
不胜，守丞死。乃入据陈。
数日，号召三老豪桀会计事。
皆曰： 将军身被坚执锐，伐无道，诛暴秦，复立楚之社稷，功宜为王。
胜乃立为王，号张楚。
于是诸郡县苦秦吏暴，皆杀其长吏，将以应胜。
乃以广为假王，监诸将以西击荥阳。
令陈人武臣、张耳、陈馀徇赵，汝阴人邓宗徇九江郡。
当此时，楚兵数千人为聚者不可胜数。
葛婴至东城，立襄强为楚王。
后闻胜已立，因杀襄强，还报。
至陈，胜杀婴，令魏人周市北徇魏地。
广围荥阳，李由为三川守守荥阳，广不能下。
胜征国之豪桀与计，以上蔡人房君蔡赐为上柱国。
周文，陈贤人也，尝为项燕军视日，事春申君，自言习兵。
胜与之将军印，西击秦。
行收兵至关，车千乘，卒十万，至戏，军焉。
秦令少府章邯免骊山徒，人奴产子，悉发以击楚军，大败之。
周文走出关，止屯曹阳。
translation: 
If we had not killed them, sixty-seven out of ten people would have died while guarding the border.
Moreover, a strong man must not die but must leave a great name in the world.
How can princes, generals and prime ministers be born with such talent?
Subordinates all say: Accept orders respectfully.
So they pretended to be princes, Fusu and Xiang Yan, and staged an uprising to obey public opinion.
The garrison soldiers all had their right arms exposed and were known as Da Chu.
They built a high altar and swore an oath, and used the heads of generals as sacrifices.
Chen Sheng established himself as general and Wu Guang as captain.
Attacked Daze Township and captured it.
He recruited troops to attack Qixian and captured it.
He sent Ge Ying from Fuli to lead troops to attack the Yisu area of ​​Qixian County, attack Liao, Zheng, Ku, Zhe, Qiao and other counties, and captured them all.
While marching, they continued to recruit and expand their troops. By the time they reached Chen County, there were six to seven hundred tanks, more than a thousand cavalry, and tens of thousands of infantry.
When Chen County was attacked, neither the county guard nor the county magistrate was present, leaving only the Shou Cheng to resist in Qiaomen.
Unable to win, Shou Cheng died in battle, so he entered the city and occupied Chen County.
A few days later, Chen Sheng ordered to summon the three elders of the township officials and local gentry to gather for a meeting.
The three elders and the squires all said: General, you are wearing boring armor and holding sharp weapons in your hands. You crusade against the unjust, eradicate the violent Qin, and rebuild the Chu Kingdom. In terms of merit, you should be called the king.
So Chen Sheng was proclaimed king and known as Zhang Chu.
At this time, all counties and counties were suffering from the tyranny of Qin officials and killed their officials in response to Chen She.
So Wu Guang was appointed acting king and led the generals to attack Rongyang westward.
He ordered Wu Chen, Zhang Er, and Chen Yu from Chen County to capture Zhao, and ordered Deng Zong from Ruyin to capture Jiujiang County.
At this time, thousands of Chu rebels gathered together and it was impossible to count them.
Ge Ying arrived in Shucheng and established Xiang Qiang as King of Chu.
Ge Ying later heard that Chen Sheng had been established as king, so he killed Xiang Qiang and returned to report.
As soon as he arrived in Chen County, Chen Sheng killed Ge Ying and ordered Wei people from Zhoushi to go north to capture Wei.
Wu Guang surrounded Rongyang. Li You was appointed governor of Sanchuan County and guarded Rongyang, which Wu Guang could not capture.
So Chen Sheng summoned domestic heroes to discuss countermeasures and appointed Cai Ci, the Lord of Shangcai Renfang, as the Shangzhu Kingdom.
Zhou Wen was a wise man in Chen County. He once served as the Japanese official in Xiang Yan's army, and also served Chun Shenjun. He claimed to be familiar with military affairs.
Chen Sheng awarded him the seal of general and ordered him to lead his army westward to attack Qin.
Soldiers and horses were recruited along the way to Hangu Pass. Sometimes there were thousands of chariots and hundreds of thousands of soldiers. They arrived at the theater and stationed themselves.
Qin II ordered Zhang Han, the young governor, to pardon the prisoners serving in Lishan and the sons of slaves, and sent them all to attack the Chu army and defeated them.
Zhou Wen was defeated, retreated from Hangu Pass, and garrisoned Caoyang.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
二月余，章邯追败之，复走黾池。
十余日，章邯击，大破之。
周文自刭，军遂不战。
武臣至邯郸，自立为赵王，陈馀为大将军，张耳、召骚为左右丞相。
胜怒，捕系武臣等家室，欲诛之。
柱国曰： 秦未亡而诛赵王将相家属，此生一秦，不如因立之。
胜乃遣使者贺赵，而徙系武臣等家属宫中。
而封张耳子敖为成都君，趣赵兵亟入关。
赵王将相相与谋曰： 王王赵，非楚意也。
楚已诛秦，必加兵于赵。计莫如毋西兵，使使北徇燕地以自广。
赵南据大河，北有燕、代，楚虽胜秦，不敢制赵，若不胜秦，必重赵。
赵承秦、楚之敝，可以得志于天下。
赵王以为然，因不西兵，而遣故上谷卒史韩广将兵北徇燕。
燕地贵人豪桀谓韩广曰： 楚、赵皆已立王。
燕虽小，亦万乘之国也，愿将军立为王。
韩广曰： 广母在赵，不可。 燕人曰： 赵方西忧秦，南忧楚，其力不能禁我。
且以楚之强，不敢害赵王将相之家，今赵独安敢害将军家乎？
韩广以为然，乃自立为燕王。
居数月，赵奉燕王母家属归之。
是时，诸将徇地者不可胜数。
周市北至狄，狄人田儋杀狄令，自立为齐王。反击周市。
市军散，还至魏地，立魏后故宁陵君咎为魏王。
咎在胜所，不得之魏。
魏地已定。欲立周市为王，市不肯。
使者五反，胜乃立宁陵君为魏王，遣之国。
周市为相。
translation: 
For more than two months, Zhang Han led his troops to pursue and defeat Zhou Wen, and they retreated to garrison in Tsui Pond.
After more than ten days, Zhang Han attacked and defeated them.
Zhou Wen committed suicide and the army lost its combat effectiveness.
When the military minister arrived in Handan, he proclaimed himself King of Zhao, Chen Yuren was appointed as the general, and Zhang Er and Zhao Sao were appointed as the left and right prime ministers.
Chen Sheng was angry, captured Wu Chen and other family members, and planned to kill them.
Zhuguo Cai Ci suggested: If the Qin Dynasty kills the family members of King Zhao, generals and prime ministers before the Qin Dynasty declines, it is equivalent to adding another Qin Dynasty as an enemy. It is better to seal him with power.
King Chen sent an envoy to Zhao to congratulate him, and then transferred the family members of the military officials and others who were under house arrest to the palace.
Zhang Ao, Zhang Er's son, was granted the title of Lord of Chengdu and urged Zhao soldiers to quickly march to Hangu Pass.
The king of Zhao, the generals and ministers discussed it and said: It is not the original intention of the Chu State that the king calls Zhao king.
After Chu defeated Qin, it was inevitable that troops would be added to Zhao. A better idea would be not to march westward, but to send generals north to capture the land of Yan to expand our territory.
Zhao State defends the Yellow River in the south, and there are vast areas of Yan and Dai in the north. Even if Chu State defeats Qin, it will not be able to conquer Zhao State. If the Chu State cannot defeat Qin, it will definitely pay attention to the Zhao State.
Zhao State can take advantage of the decline of Qin and Chu to achieve success in the world.
King Zhao thought it was right, so he did not send troops westward. Instead, he sent Han Guang, a former soldier of Shanggu County, to lead his army north to attack Yan.
The wealthy nobles of the old Yan State advised Han Guang: "The land of Chu has a king, and the land of Zhao has a king."
Although the land of Yan is small, it is a country with thousands of troops and chariots. I hope that the general will establish himself as the king of Yan.
Han Guang said: My mother lives in the State of Zhao, so I can't do it. The Yan people said: The State of Zhao is worried about Qin in the west and Chu in the south. His power cannot restrain us.
Moreover, as Chu State was so powerful, it did not dare to harm the family members of the generals and kings of Zhao. How could Zhao State dare to harm the generals’ families now?
Han Chen thought he was right, so he made himself king of Zhe.
A few months later, Zhao Er escorted King Yan's mother and family members back to the Kingdom of Yan.
At this time, countless generals from all over the country were attacking cities and territories.
Zhou Shi marched north to Di County. Tian Dan, a native of Di County, killed the magistrate of Di County and proclaimed himself the king of Qi. He raised troops in Qi and attacked Zhou Shi.
Zhou Shi's army was defeated and returned to Wei, intending to make Ningling Junjiu, a descendant of the original Wei king, the king of Wei.
At that time, Guan was with Chen Sheng and could not go to Wei.
After Wei was pacified, people wanted to establish Zhou Shi as King of Wei, but Zhou Shi refused.
The envoy traveled back and forth between King Chen and Wei five times, and Chen Shengcai agreed to make Ningling Junjiu King of Wei and send him back to Wei.
Zhou Shi finally became the prime minister.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
将军田臧等相与谋曰： 周章军已破，秦兵且至，我守荥阳城不能下，秦军至，必大败。
不如少遣兵，足以守荥阳，悉精兵迎秦军。
今假王骄，不知兵权，不可与计，非诛之，事恐败。
因相与矫陈王令以诛吴广，献其首于胜。
胜使赐田臧楚令尹印，使为上将。
田臧乃使诸将李归等守荥阳城，自以精兵西迎秦军于敖仓。
与战，田臧死，军破。
章邯进击李归等荥阳下，破之，李归死。
阳城人邓说将兵居郯，章邯别将击破之，邓说走陈。
铚人五逢将兵居许，章邯击破之。五逢亦走陈。
胜诛邓说。
胜初立时，氵夌人秦嘉、铚人董緤、符离人朱鸡石、取虑人郑布、徐人丁疾等皆特起，将兵围东海守于郯。
胜闻，乃使武平君畔为将军，监郯下军。
秦嘉自立为大司马，恶属人，告军吏曰： 武平君年少，不知兵事，勿听。
因矫以王命杀武平君畔。
章邯已破五逢，击陈，柱国房君死。
章邯又进击陈西张贺军。
胜出临战，军破，张贺死。
腊月，胜之汝阴，还至下城父，其御庄贾杀胜以降秦。
葬砀，谥曰隐王。
胜故涓人将军吕臣为苍头军，起新阳，攻陈，下之，杀庄贾，复以陈为楚。
初，胜令铚人宋留将兵定南阳，入武关。
留已徇南阳，闻胜死，南阳复为秦。
宋留不能入武关，乃东至新蔡，遇秦军，宋留以军降秦。
秦传留至咸阳，车裂留以徇。
秦嘉等闻胜军败，乃立景驹为楚王，引兵之方舆，欲击秦军济阴下。
使公孙庆使齐王，欲与并力俱进。
齐王曰： 陈王战败，未知其死生，楚安得不请而立王？
公孙庆曰： 齐不请楚而立王，楚何故请齐而立王！
且楚首事，当令于天下。
田儋杀公孙庆。
秦左右校复攻陈，下之。
吕将军走，徼兵复聚，与番盗英布相遇，攻击秦左右校，破之青波，复以陈为楚。
会项梁立怀王孙心为楚王。
陈胜王凡六月。
初为王，其故人尝与佣耕者闻之，乃之陈，叩宫门曰： 吾欲见涉。
宫门令欲缚之。
translation: 
General Tian Zang and others jointly planned and said: Zhou Zhang's army has been defeated. The Qin army will come sooner or later. We have surrounded Rongyang City for a long time and cannot attack it. Once the Qin army arrives, it will definitely suffer a huge defeat.
It is better to leave a small number of troops behind, enough to surround Rongyang, and mobilize all the elite troops to attack the Qin army.
Now the acting king Wu Guang is arrogant and does not understand military tactics. He cannot work with him. If he does not kill him, the whole matter may be ruined.
Therefore, under the pretense of King Chen's order, they executed Wu Guang and presented Wu Guang's head to Chen Sheng.
Chen Sheng sent an envoy to give Tian Zang the seal of Chu State's Ling Yin and appointed him as a general.
Tian Zang sent his generals Li Gui and others to garrison outside Rongyang City. He led his elite troops to the west to meet the Qin army in Aocang.
The two sides fought, Tian Zang died in the battle, and the army collapsed.
Zhang Han marched to attack Li Gui and others at Rongyang City and defeated them. Li Gui died in battle.
Deng Yue, a native of Yangcheng, led his army in Tan County and was defeated by another army of Zhang Han. Deng Yue led his army and fled to Chen County.
Wu Feng, a native of Liao County, led his army and was stationed in Xu County. Zhang Han defeated him and Wu Feng fled to Chen County.
Chen Sheng killed Deng Shuo:
When Chen Sheng first became king, Qin Jia from Ling County, Dong Yan from Liao County, Zhu Jishi from Fuli, Zheng Bu from Qilu, and Ding Ji from Xu County all independently raised armies and led their troops to surround the governor of Shuhai County in Tan County.
When King Chen heard about it, he appointed Wu Ping Junpan as a general to oversee all the armies in Tancheng.
Qin Jia established himself as Grand Sima and did not want to be subordinate to Lord Wu Ping. He told the military officers: Lord Wu Ping is young and does not understand military affairs, so don't listen to him!
Therefore, it was falsely reported that King Chen ordered Wuping Junpan to be killed.
Zhang Han had defeated Wu Feng and attacked Chen County. Cai Ci, the king of Shangzhu State, died in the battle.
Zhang Han then advanced to attack Zhang He's army in the west of Chen County.
Chen Sheng personally went into battle to supervise the battle. The army was defeated and Zhang He died in the battle.
In December, Chen Sheng went to Ruyin and transferred to Xiachengfu. His coachman Zhuangmai killed him and then surrendered to the Qin army.
Chen Sheng was buried in Ci County, and Mi was named King Yin.
Lu Chen, Chen Sheng's old minister, later became a general in the factory. He established a "Cangtou Army" with heads wrapped in green scarves. They raised troops in Xinyang, conquered Chen County, killed Zhuang Mai, and made Chen County the capital of Chu.
At first, Chen Sheng ordered Song Liu, a native of Liao County, to lead his army to pacify Nanyang and enter Wuguan.
After Song Liu captured Nanyang, he heard the news of Chen Sheng's death, and Nanyang was captured by the Qin army again.
Song Liu could not enter Wuguan, so he went east to Xincai and met the Qin army. Song Liu led his army to surrender to Qin.
Qin took Song Liu to Xianyang, and his chariot was broken to show the public.
When Qin Jia and others heard that Chen Sheng was defeated, they appointed Jing Ju as King of Chu and led his army to Fangyu County, preparing to attack the Qin army in Jiyin.
He sent Gongsun Qing to the King of Qi to join forces and march together.
King Qi said: King Chen was defeated and his life and death are unknown to this day. How could Chu state establish a king without asking me for permission?
Gongsun Qing said: The king of Qi established a king without asking for instructions from the state of Chu. Why did the state of Chu have to ask the state of Qi for instructions to establish a king?
Moreover, Chu State was the first to cause trouble, so it should be the order of the world.
So Tian Dan killed Gongsun Qing.
Qin's left and right captains led their troops to attack Chen County again, and the county seat was captured.
Lu Chen's army was defeated, so he recruited troops and regrouped. They met the troops of Dangyang Lord Yingbu, who was a thief in Poyang, and attacked the Qin army's left and right captains, defeated them at Qingbo, and once again made Chen County the capital of Chu.
It happened that at this time Xiang Liang made Xin, the grandson of King Huai of Chu, the King of Chu.
Chen Sheng reigned as king for six months.
When he first became king, his old friends who had worked with him as farm servants heard about this and rushed to Chen County. They knocked on the palace door and said, "I want to see Chen She."
The palace chief wanted to tie him up.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
自辩数，乃置，不肯为通。
胜出，遮道而呼涉。
乃召见，载与归。
入宫，见殿屋帷帐，客曰： 夥，涉之为王沈沈者！
楚人谓多为夥，故天下传之 夥涉为王 ，由陈涉始。
客出入愈益发舒，言胜故情。
或言 客愚无知，专妄言，轻威 。
胜斩之。
诸故人皆自引去，由是无亲胜者。
以朱防为中正，故武为司过，主司群臣。
诸将徇地，至，令之不是者，系而罪之。以苛察为忠。
其所不善者，不下吏，辄自治。
胜信用之，诸将以故不亲附。
此其所以败也。
胜虽已死，其所置遣侯王将相竟亡秦。
高祖时为胜置守冢于砀，至今血食。
王莽败，乃绝。
项籍字羽，下相人也。
初起，年二十四。
其季父梁，梁父即楚名将项燕者也。
家世楚将，封于项，故姓项氏。
籍少时，学书不成，去；学剑又不成，去。
梁怒之。
籍曰： 书足记姓名而已。
剑一人敌，不足学，学万人敌耳。
于是梁奇其意，乃教以兵法。籍大喜，略知其意，又不肯竟。
梁尝有栎阳逮，请蕲狱掾曹咎书抵栎阳狱史司马欣，以故事皆已。
梁尝杀人，与籍避仇吴中。
吴中贤士大夫皆出梁下。
每有大繇役及丧，梁常主办，阴以兵法部勒宾客子弟，以知其能。
秦始皇帝东游会稽，渡浙江，梁与籍观。
籍曰： 彼可取而代也。
梁掩其口，曰： 无妄言，族矣！
梁以此奇籍。
translation: 
After repeated explanations by him, he was granted pardon, but he was still not informed.
When King Chen went out, he blocked the road and shouted Chen She's name.
When Chen Sheng heard the shouting, he summoned him and drove back to the palace with him.
Entering the palace, he saw the halls, houses, curtains and curtains. The guest said: "There are so many! Chen She has become king, and the palace and mansion are so luxurious!"
The people of the Chu State called Duo Huo She the king, so it spread throughout the world that Chen She was the first person to create a sentence.
This guest came in and out more and more freely, talking about Chen Sheng's past events at will.
Someone advised Chen Sheng: "This guest of yours is ignorant and talks nonsense, which damages your dignity."
Chen Sheng then killed the guest.
As a result, all Chen Sheng's old acquaintances left voluntarily, and no one was close to Chen Sheng from now on.
Chen Sheng appointed Zhu Fang as the Zhongzheng official and Hu Wu as the Siguo official, in charge of the affairs of the ministers.
When the generals captured the city and returned to Chen County to answer their orders, those who did not comply with the orders were arrested and punished, and harshness and severity were regarded as loyalty.
Anyone who has a bad relationship with these two people will be punished arbitrarily by them themselves without being handed over to the relevant officials for interrogation.
Chen Sheng trusted these two people, so the generals did not attach themselves to Chen Sheng.
This is the reason why Chen Sheng failed.
Although Chen Sheng died, the princes and generals he appointed and sent finally destroyed the Qin Dynasty.
At that time, Emperor Gaozu arranged a family to guard Chen She's tomb in Ci, and they still slaughter animals on time to offer sacrifices to him.
After Wang Mang failed, he stopped offering sacrifices.
Xiang Ji, whose courtesy name is Yu, is a native of Xiaxiang.
When he first joined the army, he was twenty-four years old.
His uncle is Xiang Liang, and Xiang Liang's father is Xiang Yan, a famous general of Chu State.
The Xiang family had been generals of Chu for generations and were granted the title of Xiang, hence their surname.
When Xiang Ji was young, he learned to read and write but had no success, so he gave up. He also learned swordsmanship, but had no success, so he gave up again.
Xiang Liang was very angry with him.
Xiang Ji said: Knowing characters is enough to remember a name.
Sword fighting against one person is not worth learning. I want to learn how to resist tens of thousands of people.
Therefore, Xiang Liang was surprised by his ambition and taught Xiang Ji the art of war. Xiang Ji was overjoyed and refused to finish the lesson even after knowing a little about it.
Xiang Liang was once hunted by officials in Liangyang, so he asked Cao Qian, the clerk of Qixian Prison, to write to Sima Xin, the clerk of Liyang Prison, and the matter was settled.
Xiang Liang once killed someone, and he and Xiang Ji went to Wuzhong to avoid revenge.
The talents of the wise officials in Wuzhong are all inferior to Xiang Liang.
Whenever there was a big corvee or funeral in Wuzhong, Xiang Liang often took charge of it and secretly used military skills to organize guests and disciples to understand their talents.
Qin Shihuang traveled eastward to Kuaiji and crossed Zhejiang. Xiang Liang and Xiang Ji watched together.
Xiang Ji said: We can replace that guy!
Xiang Liang covered his mouth and said, "Don't talk nonsense, it will destroy the entire clan!"
Xiang Liang therefore thought that Xiang Ji had extraordinary ambitions.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
籍长八尺二寸，力扛鼎，才气过人。吴中子弟皆惮籍。
秦二世元年，陈胜起。
九月，会稽假守通素贤梁，乃召与计事。
梁曰： 方今江西皆反秦，此亦天亡秦时也。
先发制人，后发制于人。
守叹曰： 闻夫子楚将世家，唯足下耳！
梁曰： 吴有奇士桓楚，亡在泽中，人莫知其处，独籍知之。
梁乃戒籍持剑居外侍。
梁复入，与守语曰： 请召籍，使受令召恒楚。
籍入，梁眴籍曰： 可行矣！
籍遂拔剑击斩守。
梁持守头，佩其印绶。
门下惊扰，籍所击杀数十百人。
府中皆詟伏，莫敢复起。
梁乃召故人所知豪吏，谕以所为，遂举吴中兵。
使人收下县，得精兵八千人，部署豪桀为校尉、候、司马。
有一人不得官，自言。
梁曰： 某时某丧，使公主某事，不能办，以故不任公。
众乃皆服。
梁为会稽将，籍为裨将，徇下县。
秦二年，广陵人召平为陈胜徇广陵，未下。
闻陈胜败走，秦将章邯且至，乃渡江矫陈王令，拜梁为楚上柱国，曰： 江东已定，急引兵西击秦。
梁乃以八千人渡江而西。
闻陈婴已下东阳，使使欲与连和俱西。
陈婴者，故东阳令史，居县，素信，为长者。
东阳少年杀其令，相聚数千人，欲立长，无适用，乃请陈婴。
婴谢不能，遂强立之，县中从之者得二万人。
欲立婴为王，异军苍头特起。
婴母谓婴曰： 自吾为乃家妇，闻先故未曾贵。
今暴得大名不祥，不如有所属，事成犹得封侯，事败易以亡，非世所指名也。
translation: 
Xiang Ji was eight feet two inches tall, could lift a cauldron, and was extremely talented and courageous. All the children in Wuzhong were afraid of Xiang Ji.
In the first year of Qin II, Chen She and others revolted in Daze Township.
In September of this year, Yin Tong, the acting governor of Kuaiji, always believed that Xiang Liang was a virtuous person, so he summoned him to discuss matters.
Xiang Liang said: The places west of the river have rebelled. This is the time when God is going to destroy the Qin Dynasty.
If you strike first you can subdue someone, if you act later you will be subdued.
Yin Tong sighed and said: I heard that Mr. Xiang comes from a family of Chu generals, so great things can only be done with your feet!
Xiang Liang said: There was a strange scholar Huan Chu in the land of Wu. He fled among the lakes. No one knew where he lived. Only Xiang Ji knew.
Xiang Liang went out and asked Xiang Yu to wait outside with his sword.
Xiang Liang went in again and said to the county guard: "Please summon Xiang Yu and let him accept the mission to summon Huan Chu."
Xiang Ji came in. Xiang Liang winked at Xiang Ji and said, "It's time to take action!"
So Xiang Ji drew his sword and beheaded the governor.
Xiang Liang held the head of the county magistrate and wore the seal of the magistrate.
The governor's entourage on the left and right became panicked and rioted, and Xiang Yu hacked and killed more than a hundred people.
Everyone in the yamen was so scared that no one dared to stand up.
Xiang Liang summoned the capable officials he was familiar with before and explained that this was going to cause a big event, so he mobilized the soldiers of Wuzhong.
He sent people to recruit strong men from the subordinate counties, and got eight thousand elite soldiers. Xiang Liang appointed the heroes of Wuzhong as school captains, military marquises, and Sima.
There was a man who was not appointed and went to argue with Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang said: Some time ago, someone died and I asked you to take charge of something, but you failed to do it, so you were not appointed.
Everyone admired him.
So Xiang Liang served as the general of Kuaiji, and Xiang Ji served as the deputy general, patrolling the subordinate counties.
In the second year of Qin II, Zhaoping from Guangling attacked Guangling for Chen Sheng, but failed to capture it.
He heard that Chen Sheng was defeated and fled, and Qin general Zhang Han arrived immediately. He crossed the river and pretended to ask King Chen to order him to grant Xiang Liang the title of Chu Shangzhu.
Xiang Liang then led eight thousand people across the Yangtze River and marched westward.
At this time, he heard that Chen Ying had occupied Shuyang, and Xiang Liang sent an envoy to ask to join him and march westward together.
Chen Ying was originally a meritorious official in Dongyang County. He lived in the county town. He was always honest and prudent, and people respected him as an elder.
The young people in Dongyang killed the county magistrate and gathered thousands of people to elect a leader. However, there was no suitable person, so they invited Chen Ying.
Chen Ying excused himself because he had no talent, so everyone made Chen Ying the leader, and 20,000 people in the county followed him in the uprising.
Everyone wanted to support Chen Ying as king and wrapped their heads in green cloth to mark that they were a new army.
Chen Ying's mother said to him: Since I became the daughter-in-law of the Chen family, I have never heard that your ancestors met any prominent figures.
It's not a good sign to suddenly become famous now. It is better to belong to others. If things succeed, you can still be granted a title. If things fail, it is easy to avoid because you are not a famous person in society.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
婴乃不敢为王，谓其军吏曰： 项氏世世将家，有功于楚，今欲举大事，非将其人，不可。
我倚名族，亡秦必矣。
其众从之，乃以其兵属梁。
梁渡淮，英布、蒲将军亦以其兵属焉。
凡六七万人，军下邳。
是时，秦嘉已立景驹为楚王，军彭城东，欲以距梁。
梁谓军吏曰： 陈王首事，战不利，未闻所在。
今秦嘉背陈王立景驹，大逆亡道。 乃引兵击秦嘉。嘉军败走，追至胡陵。
嘉还战一日，嘉死，军降。
景驹走死梁地。
梁已并秦嘉军，军胡陵，将引而西。
章邯至栗，梁使别将朱鸡石、馀樊君与战。
馀樊君死。朱鸡石败，亡走胡陵。
梁乃引兵入薛，诛朱鸡石。
梁前使羽别攻襄城，襄城坚守不下。
已拔，皆坑之，还报梁，闻陈王定死，召诸别将会薛计事。
时沛公亦从沛往。
居鄛人范增年七十，素好奇计，往说梁曰： 陈胜败固当。
夫秦灭六国，楚最亡罪，自怀王入秦不反，楚人怜之至今，故南以称曰 楚虽三户，亡秦必楚 。今陈胜首事，不立楚后，其势不长。
今君起江东，楚蜂起之将皆争附君者，以君世世楚将，为能复立楚之后也。
于是梁乃求楚怀王孙心，在民间为人牧羊，立以为楚怀王，从民望也。
陈婴为上柱国，封五县，与怀王都盱台。
梁自号武信君，引兵攻亢父。
初，章邯既杀齐王田儋于临菑，田假复自立为齐王。
儋弟荣走保东阿，章邯追围之。
梁引兵救东阿，大破秦军东阿。
田荣即引兵归，逐王假，假亡走楚，相田角亡走赵。
角弟駹，故将，居赵不敢归。
田荣立儋子市为齐王。
梁己破东阿下军，遂追秦军。
数使使趣齐兵俱西。荣曰： 楚杀田假，赵杀田角、田駹，乃发兵。
梁曰： 田假与国之王，穷来归我，不忍杀。
赵亦不杀角、駹以市于齐。
齐遂不肯发兵助楚。
染使羽与沛公别攻城阳，屠之。
西破秦军濮阳东，秦兵收入濮阳。
沛公、羽攻定陶，定陶未下，去，西略地至雍丘，大破秦军，斩李由。
还攻外黄，外黄未下。
梁起东阿，比至定陶，再破秦军，羽等又斩李由，益轻秦，有骄色。
宋义谏曰： 战胜而将骄卒惰者败。
今少惰矣，秦兵日益，臣为君畏之。
梁不听。乃使宋义于齐。
道遇齐使者高陵君显，曰： 公将见武信君乎？
translation: 
Chen Ying did not dare to claim the throne and said to his officers: "The surname Xiang has been a general for generations and is very famous in the Chu Kingdom." If you want to do big things now, the coach must be this kind of person.
We rely on famous families and the destruction of the Qin Dynasty is certain.
So everyone obeyed his words and put the troops under Xiang Liang's command.
Xiang Liang crossed the Huaihe River, and generals Yingbu and Pu also brought their troops to join him.
A total of 60,000 to 70,000 people were stationed at the craft.
At this time, Qin Jia had already elected Jing Ju as the king of Chu, and stationed troops in Pengcheng with their faces restrained, hoping to resist Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang told the officers: King Chen started the rebellion first, and the battle was unfavorable. His whereabouts are unknown.
Now Qin Jia betrayed King Chen and supported Jing Ju, which was a treasonous act, so he marched to attack Qin Jia. Qin Jia's army was defeated and fled, and Xiang Liang pursued him to Hu Ling.
Qin Jia returned to the army and fought for one day. Qin Jia died in the battle and the army surrendered.
Jingju fled and died in Liangdi.
Xiang Liang annexed Qin Jia's army and garrisoned Huling. Will he lead his troops to the west?
Zhang Han's army arrived in Li County, and Xiang Liang sent Zhujishi and Yu Fanjun, generals from another army, to fight.
Yu Fanjun died in battle, Zhujishi's army was defeated and fled to Huling.
Xiang Liang led his army into Xue County and killed Zhujishi.
Xiang Liang had previously sent Xiang Yu to attack Xiangcheng separately. The officers and soldiers of Xiangcheng held on and could not be captured for a while.
After conquering them, Xiang Yu buried them all alive and then came back to report to Xiang Liang. When Xiang Liang heard that King Chen was indeed dead, he summoned all the generals to Xue County to discuss military affairs.
At this time, Pei Gong also raised troops in Peixian County and came to attend the meeting.
Fan Zeng, a seventy-year-old native of Juhu, who was always good at coming up with unexpected plans, went to persuade Xiang Liang and said: "Chen Sheng's failure is inevitable."
The Qin Dynasty destroyed six kingdoms, and Chu was the most innocent. Since King Huai went to Qin and never returned, the people of Chu missed him to this day. Therefore, Duke Nan of Chu said: Even if there are only three families left in Chu, Chu will definitely be the one who destroys Qin. Now Chen Sheng is the first to rise up and proclaim himself king without supporting the descendants of King Chu. His power cannot last long.
Now you have raised troops in Jiangshu, and the reason why the generals in Chu are swarming to follow you is because your family has been the generals of Chu for generations and can support the descendants of the King of Chu again.
So Xiang Liang found the grandson of King Huai of Chu from the people, who was tending sheep for others, and supported him as King Huai of Chu to comply with the people's wishes.
Chen Ying served as the Shangzhu State of Chu State, granted five counties, and established Xutai as the capital with King Huai.
Xiang Liang called himself Lord Wu Xin and led his army to attack Kang's father.
At the beginning, Zhang Han killed Qi King Tian Dan in Linpu, and Tian Jia established himself as Qi King.
Tian Dan's brother Tian Rong retreated to Shu'a, and Zhang Han pursued and surrounded Tian Rong's army.
Xiang Liang led troops to rescue Shu'a and defeated the Qin army in Shu'a.
Tian Rong went back with his troops and expelled King Tianjia of Qi. Tianjia fled to Chu State. Tian Jiao, the prime minister of Tianjia, fled to Zhao.
Tian Jiao's younger brother Tian Xian was originally a general of Qi State, but he lived in Zhao State and did not dare to go back.
Tian Rong supported Tian Dan's son Tian Shi as King of Qi.
Xiang Liang defeated the Qin army in the Dong'a area and pursued it.
Several envoys were sent to urge the Qi army to march west together: Tian Rong said that if Chu killed Tian Jia, Zhao would kill Tian Jiao and Tian Xian. We just sent troops.
Xiang Liang said: Tianjia is the king of the allied countries. He came to me in desperation and couldn't bear to kill him.
The State of Zhao also refused to kill Tian Jiao and Tian Xian to make a deal with the State of Qi.
Qi finally refused to send troops to help the Chu army.
Xiang Liang sent Xiang Yu and Pei Gong to attack Chengyang from another route and massacred the entire city.
Moving further west, the Qin army was defeated east of Puyang, and the Qin army withdrew its troops and retreated into Puyang City.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu attacked Dingtao. Dingtao was not captured, so he withdrew, captured the territory to the west, and reached Yongqiu, where he defeated the Qin army and killed Li You.
He returned to attack Waihuang, but Waihuang was not captured.
Xiang Liang set out from Dong'a, and when he arrived at Dingtao, he defeated the Qin army again. Xiang Yu and others killed Li You again, showing contempt for the Qin army even more, showing a proud look.
Song Yi advised Xiang Liang: If you win a battle, if the generals are proud and the soldiers are lazy, they will fail.
Now the soldiers are a little lazy, and the number of Qin soldiers is increasing day by day. I am worried about you.
Xiang Liang ignored him and sent Song Yi as envoy to Qi.
Song Yi met Qi's envoy Gaoling Junxian on the road and asked him: "Are you going to see Jun Wu Xin?"


Chunk 7: 
original: 
曰： 然。
义曰： 臣论武信君军必败。
公徐行则免，疾行则及祸。
秦果悉起兵益章邯，夜衔枚击楚，大破之定陶，梁死。
沛公与羽去外黄，攻陈留，陈留坚守不下。
沛公、羽相与谋曰： 今梁军败，士卒恐。
乃与吕臣俱引兵而东。
吕臣军彭城东，羽军彭城西，沛公军砀。
章邯已破梁军，则以为楚地兵不足忧，乃渡河北击赵，大破之。
当此之时，赵歇为王，陈馀为将，张耳为相，走入巨鹿城。
秦将王离、涉闲围巨鹿，章邯军其南，筑甬道而输之粟。
陈馀将卒数万人军巨鹿北，所谓河北军也。
宋义所遇齐使者高陵君显见楚怀王曰： 宋义论武信君必败，数日果败。
军未战先见败征，可谓知兵矣。
王召宋义与计事而说之，因以为上将军；羽为鲁公，为次将，范增为末将。
诸别将皆属，号卿子冠军。
北救赵，至安阳，留不进。
秦三年，羽谓宋义曰： 今秦军围巨鹿，疾引兵渡河，楚击其外，赵应其内，破秦国必矣。
宋义曰： 不然。
夫搏牛之虻不可以破虱。
今秦攻赵，战胜则兵罢，我承其敝；不胜，则我引兵鼓行而西，必举秦矣。
故不如先斗秦、赵。
夫击轻锐，我不如公；坐运筹策，公不如我。
因下令军中曰： 猛如虎，佷如羊，贪如狼，强不可令者，皆斩。
遣其子襄相齐，身送之无盐，饮酒高会。
天寒大雨，士卒冻饥。
羽曰： 将戮力而攻秦，久留不行。
今岁饥民贫，卒食半菽，军无见粮，乃饮酒高会，不引兵渡河因赵食，与并力击秦，乃曰 承其敝 。夫以秦之强，攻新造之赵，其势必举赵。
赵举秦强，何敝之承！
translation: 
Answer: Yes.
Song Yi said: I am convinced that Lord Wu Xin's army will definitely fail.
If you go slowly, you will avoid death; if you go quickly, you will suffer disaster.
Sure enough, the Qin Dynasty mobilized all its troops to reinforce Zhang Han. The soldiers attacked the Chu army at night and defeated the Chu army in Dingtao. Xiang Liang died in the battle.
Peigong and Xiang Yu withdrew from Waihuang and attacked Chenliu, but Chenliu's army and people held on and failed to capture it.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu discussed with each other: Now Xiang Liang's army has collapsed and the soldiers are afraid.
He retreated eastward with Lu Chen's troops.
Lu Chen garrisoned Pengcheng Shumian, Xiang Yu garrisoned west of Pengcheng, and Peigong garrisoned Ci County.
Zhang Han had already defeated Xiang Liang's army, so he thought that Chu's troops were not strong enough to worry about, so he crossed the Yellow River and headed north to attack Zhao and defeated the Zhao army.
At this time, Zhao Xie was the king, Chen Yu was the general, and Zhang Er was the prime minister. They all fled into Julu City.
Qin generals Wang Li and Shexian surrounded Julu. Zhang Han's army was stationed to the south of them and built a tunnel to transport military supplies to them.
Chen Yu led tens of thousands of soldiers to the north of Julu, forming the so-called Hebei Army.
Gao Lingjun, the envoy from Qi State whom Song Yi met, met King Huai of Chu and said: Song Yi believed that Lord Wu Xin would be defeated. After a few days, he was indeed defeated.
An army can see the signs of failure before engaging in battle. This can also be said to understand the art of war.
The King of Chu summoned Song Yi to discuss important matters with him. He liked him very much and appointed him as General Bu; Xiang Yu was called Lu Gong and served as the second general; Fan Zeng served as the last general.
The generals of all ministries were subordinate to Song Yi and were called Qing Zi Champion.
He went north to rescue Zhao and marched to Anyang, but stopped and did not advance.
In the third year of Qin II, Xiang Yu said to Song Yi: Now the Qin army besieged Zhao State in Julu. We quickly led our troops to cross the Zhang River. The Chu army attacked their outer perimeter, and the Zhao army responded inside. It is certain to defeat the Qin army.
Song Yi said: No.
The same effort you put into swatting cattle worms should not be used to kill lice.
Now the Qin army attacks the Zhao army. After the victory, the army will be tired. We can take advantage of their fatigue. If we cannot win, we should lead the troops to march westward with great fanfare. We will definitely be able to overthrow the Qin Dynasty.
Therefore, it is better to let the Qin and Zhao armies fight each other first.
Wearing armor and holding a halberd, Song Yi is not as good as you; sitting down to make decisions, you are not as good as Song Yi.
So he issued an order to the army: Anyone who is as fierce as a tiger, as stubborn as a sheep, as greedy as a wolf, and who is stubborn and disobeys the mission will be beheaded.
Then he sent his son Song Xiang to assist the King of Qi, and personally sent him to Wuyan to hold a grand banquet.
It was cold and rainy at that time, and the soldiers were cold and hungry.
Xiang Yu said: We should have attacked the Qin army together, but he stayed for a long time without advancing.
Now that the year has been famine and the people are poor, the soldiers can only eat half beans and half vegetables, and there is no food in the army. However, he drinks and holds a party, does not lead the troops across the river to eat Zhao's food, and joins forces with Zhao to attack Qin. However, he said that using their fatigue and the strength of the Qin Dynasty to attack the newly-established Zhao, they would definitely defeat Zhao.
Zhao State was occupied and the Qin army became stronger. How could there be any opportunity to take advantage of exhaustion!


Chunk 8: 
original: 
且国兵新破，王坐不安席，扫境内而属将军，国家安危，在此一举。
今不恤士卒而徇私，非社稷之臣也。
羽晨朝上将军宋义，即其帐中斩义头，出令军中曰： 宋义与齐谋反楚，楚王阴令籍诛之。
诸将詟服，莫敢枝梧。
皆曰： 首立楚者，将军家也。今将军诛乱。
乃相与共立羽为假上将军。
使人追宋义子，及之齐，杀之。
使桓楚报命于王。王因使使立羽为上将军。
羽已杀卿子冠军，威震楚国，名闻诸侯。
乃遣当阳君、蒲将军将卒二万人渡河救巨鹿。
战少利，陈馀复请兵。
羽乃悉引兵渡河。
已渡，皆湛船，破釜甑，烧庐舍，持三日粮，视士必死，无还心。
于是至则围王离，与秦军遇，九战，绝甬道，大破之，杀苏角，虏王离。
涉闲不降，自烧杀。
当是时，楚兵冠诸侯。
诸侯军救巨鹿者十余壁，莫敢纵兵。
及楚击秦，诸侯皆从壁上观。
楚战士无不一当十，呼声动天地。
诸侯军人人惴恐。
于是楚已破秦军，羽见诸侯将，入辕门，膝行而前，莫敢仰视。
羽由是始为诸侯上将军。兵皆属焉。
章邯军棘原，羽军漳南，相持未战。
秦军数却，二世使人让章邯。
章邯恐，使长史欣请事。
至咸阳，留司马门三日，赵高不见，有不信之心。
长史欣恐，还走，不敢出故道。
赵高果使人追之，不及。
欣至军，报曰： 事亡可为者。
相国赵高颛国主断。今战而胜，高嫉吾功；不胜，不免于死。
愿将军熟计之。
translation: 
Moreover, our army has suffered a defeat recently, and the king is restless, so he concentrates all the troops in the country and hands them over to the general. The safety of the country is at stake.
Now he has no sympathy for the soldiers, but seeks personal gain. He is not a minister of the country.
When Xiang Yu came to see General Song Yi in the morning, he beheaded Song Yi in the tent. He went out of the tent and issued an order to the army, saying: Song Yi conspired with the state of Qi to rebel against Chu. The king of Chu secretly ordered me to kill him.
All the generals were in awe and no one dared to resist.
It is said: It was the general's family who first supported the king of Chu, and now it is the general who has killed the rebellious ministers and traitors.
So everyone supported Xiang Yu as acting general.
He sent people to chase Song Yi's son, chased him to Qi State and killed him.
Huan Chu was sent to report the situation to King Huai, and King Huai sent an envoy to appoint Xiang Yu as the general.
After Xiang Yu killed the champion of Qingzi, he became powerful in Chu country and his reputation spread among the princes.
He sent Lord Dangyang and General Pu to lead 20,000 troops across the Zhang River to rescue Julu.
The battle was somewhat successful, and Chen Yu asked for reinforcements.
Xiang Yu then led all his troops across the Zhang River.
After crossing the river, they sank all the ships, smashed the pots, burned the forts, and ordered the soldiers to carry only three days of dry food each, in order to express to the soldiers that they would fight to the death and have no intention of returning it.
So as soon as they arrived at Julu, they surrounded Wang Li, fought with the Qin army nine times, cut off their grain transport corridor, defeated the Qin army, killed Su Jiao, and captured Wang Li.
Shexian refused to surrender to the Chu army and burned himself to death.
At this time, the Chu army dominated the princes.
The reinforcements from the princes came to rescue Julu from more than a dozen camps, but they did not dare to send troops.
When the Chu army attacked the Qin army, all the generals of the princes' armies were watching from the ramparts.
The soldiers of the Chu army were all equal to ten, and the sound of killing was loud.
Everyone in the princes' army was trembling and frightened.
After defeating the Qin army in this way, Xiang Yu summoned the princes and generals. When they entered the camp gate, they all walked forward on their knees, and no one dared to look up.
From then on, Xiang Yu became the general of the princes, and all the soldiers of the princes were subordinate to him.
Zhang Han's army is stationed in Jiyuan, and Xiang Yu's army is stationed in Zhangnan. The two armies are in a stalemate and have not yet fought.
The Qin army retreated several times, and Qin II sent someone to question Zhang Han.
Zhang Han was frightened and sent commander Shi Simaxin to ask for instructions.
Sima Xin arrived in Xianyang and waited at Simamen for three days. Zhao Gao did not receive him because he was distrustful.
Sima Xin, the chief minister, was frightened and fled back to the army, not daring to take the original route.
As expected, Zhao Gao sent someone to chase him, but failed to catch him.
Sima Xin returned to the army and reported: Prime Minister Zhao Gao is in power in the court, and the people below cannot do anything.
If we can win the battle now, Zhao Gao will definitely be jealous of our achievements; if we can't win the battle, we will inevitably die.
Ask the General to think carefully about this situation.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
陈馀亦遗章邯书曰： 白起为秦将，南并鄢、郢，北坑马服，攻城略地，不可胜计，而卒赐死。
蒙恬为秦将，北逐戎人，开榆中地数千里，竟斩阳周。
何者？
功多，秦不能封，因以法诛之。
今将军为秦将三岁矣，所亡失已十万数，而诸侯并起兹益多。
彼赵高素谀日久，今事急，亦恐二世诛之，故欲以法诛将军以塞责，使人更代以脱其祸。
将军居外久，多内隙，有功亦诛，亡功亦诛，且天之亡秦，无愚智皆知之。
今将军内不能直谏。外为亡国将，孤立而欲长存，岂不哀哉！
将军何不还兵与诸侯为从，南面称孤，熟与身伏斧质，妻子为戮乎？
章邯狐疑，阴使候始成使羽，欲约。
约未成，羽使蒲将军引兵渡三户，军漳南，与秦战，再破之。
羽悉引兵击秦军汙水上，大破之。
邯使使见羽，欲约。
羽召军吏谋曰： 粮少，欲听其约。 军吏皆曰： 善。
羽乃与盟洹水南殷虚上。
已盟，章邯见羽流涕，为言赵高。
羽乃立章邯为雍王，置军中。
使长史欣为上将，将秦军行前。
汉元年，羽将诸侯兵三十余万，行略地至河南，遂西到新安。
异时诸侯吏卒徭役屯戍过秦中，秦中遇之多亡状，及秦军降诸侯，诸侯吏卒乘胜奴虏使之，轻折辱秦吏卒。
吏卒多窃言曰： 章将军等诈吾属降诸侯，今能入关破秦，大善： 即不能，诸侯虏吾属而东，秦又尽诛吾父母妻子。
诸将微闻其计，以告羽。
羽乃召英布、蒲将军计曰： 秦吏卒尚众，其心不服，至关不听，事必危。不如击之，独与章邯、长史欣、都尉翳入秦。
于是夜击坑秦军二十余万人。
至函谷关，有兵守，不得入。
translation: 
Chen Yu also wrote to Zhang Han, saying: Bai Qi was a Qin general. He conquered Yan and Ying in the south, pitted Zhao Kuo's army in the north, captured countless cities and territories, and was sentenced to death.
Meng Tian was a Qin general who drove the Huns from the north and opened up thousands of miles of land in Yuzhong, but was killed by Yang Zhou.
Why?
With too much merit, the Qin Dynasty could no longer give them the highest reward, so they found an excuse to kill them according to national law.
Now that the general has been the general of Qin for three years, he has lost hundreds of thousands of troops, and the princes' armies are revolting in increasing numbers.
Zhao Gao has always been flattering and flattering for a long time. Now the situation is critical and he is afraid that the second generation will kill him. Therefore, he wants to use the national law to kill the general to avoid his responsibility, and send someone to replace the general to relieve him of his troubles.
The general was out for a long time, and there were many rifts in the court. He would die even if he had merit, and he would be killed if he didn't. Moreover, God is going to destroy the Qin Dynasty, and both wise and foolish people can see clearly.
Now the general cannot give direct advice at home, and he has become a general who has subjugated his country outside. Isn't it pitiful that he is alone and wants to stay for a long time?
Why don't the generals change sides, join forces with the princes to attack Qin, and establish themselves as kings? Which is better than laying down the ax and anvil and having his wife and children killed?
Zhang Han was hesitant, so he secretly sent military commander Shi Cheng to send an envoy to Xiang Yujun to ask for a peace treaty.
Before the peace treaty was concluded, Xiang Yu sent General Pu to lead his troops across Sanhu Ferry, stationed in Zhangnan, engaged the Qin army, and defeated the Qin army again.
Xiang Yu led the entire army to attack the Qin army in Shuishui and defeated them.
Zhang Han sent people to see Xiang Yu and ask for a peace treaty.
Xiang Yu summoned his officers to discuss: We were short of food and wanted to agree to their peace proposal. The officers all said: OK.
Xiang Yu held talks with Zhang Han at the Yin Ruins south of Huan River.
After signing the covenant, Zhang Han met Xiang Yu and told Zhao Gao's various actions with tears in his eyes.
Xiang Yu then made Zhang Han King Yong and placed him in the Chu army.
Let Chief Shi Sima Xin serve as the general and lead the Qin army as the vanguard.
In the first year of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu led more than 300,000 soldiers from the princes and marched all the way to capture the city, reaching Henan, and then reaching Xin'an.
When the officers and soldiers of the princes' armies passed by Qin for corvee service or guarding the frontier, the officers and soldiers of Qin's army were often rude to them. When the Qin army surrendered to the princes, many of the officers and soldiers of the princes' armies took advantage of the victory and treated Qin's officers and soldiers as slaves and captives, torturing and insulting Qin officials and soldiers at will.
Many officers and soldiers of Qin secretly discussed: General Zhang and others tricked us into surrendering to the princes. If we can enter the pass and defeat Qin, it would be a great thing; if not, if the princes' army captures us and goes to the east, the Qin Dynasty will definitely kill our parents, wives and children.
The generals secretly listened to these discussions and reported them to Xiang Yu.
Xiang Yu summoned Ying Bu, General Pu and others to discuss: There are still many Qin officers and soldiers, and they are dissatisfied. If they don't obey the command in Guanzhong, the situation will be dangerous. It is better to kill them, and only enter Qin with Zhang Han, Chang Shi Sima Xin, Captain Dong Yi and others.
So the Chu army unexpectedly killed more than 200,000 Qin soldiers at night.
When Xiang Yu's army passed Hangu Pass, they were guarded by soldiers and could not enter.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
闻沛公已屠咸阳，羽大怒，使当阳君击关。
羽遂入，至戏西鸿门，闻沛公欲王关中，独有秦府库珍宝。
亚父范增亦大怒，劝羽击沛公。
飨士，旦日合战，羽季父项伯素善张良。
良时从沛公。项伯夜以语良。
良与俱见沛公，因伯自解于羽。
明日，沛公从百余骑至鸿门谢羽，自陈 封秦府库，还军霸上以待大王，闭关以备他盗，不敢背德。
羽意既解，范增欲害沛公，赖张良、樊哙得免。
语在《高纪》。
后数日，羽乃屠咸阳，杀秦降王子婴，烧其宫室，火三月不灭；收其宝货，略妇女而东。秦民失望。
于是韩生说羽曰： 关中阻山带河，四塞之地，肥饶，可都以伯。
羽见秦宫室皆已烧残，又怀思东归，曰： 富贵不归故乡，如衣锦夜行。
韩生曰： 人谓楚人沐猴而冠，果然。
羽闻之。斩韩生。
初，怀王与诸将约，先入关者王其地。
羽既背约，使人致命于怀王。怀王曰： 如约。
羽乃曰： 怀王者，吾家武信君所立耳，非有功伐，何以得颛主约？
天下初发难，假立诸侯后以伐秦。
然身披坚执锐首事，暴露于野三年，灭秦定天下者，皆将相诸君与籍力也。
怀王亡功，固当分其地王之。 诸将皆曰： 善。
羽乃阳尊怀王为义帝，曰： 古之王者，地方千里，必居上游。
徙之长沙，都郴。
乃分天下以王诸侯。
羽与范增疑沛公，业已讲解，又恶背约，恐诸侯叛之，阴谋曰： 巴、蜀道险，秦之迁民皆居之。
translation: 
Hearing that Pei Gong had captured Xianyang, Xiang Yu was furious and sent Dangyang Lord and others to attack the key problem.
Xiang Yu then entered Hangu Pass and arrived at Hongmen to the west of the water. He heard that Pei Gong wanted to be the king of Guanzhong and possess the treasures of the Qin Dynasty's treasury alone.
Fan Zeng, Ya's father, was also furious and advised Xiang Yu to attack Pei Gong.
So a banquet was held for the soldiers to have a good meal and prepare for fighting the next day. Xiang Bo is Xiang Yu's uncle and has always been close to Zhang Liang.
Zhang Liang followed Pei Gong at this time, and Xiang Bo rushed to Pei Gong's camp overnight and told Zhang Liang everything.
Zhang Liang took Xiang Bo to see Pei Gong and asked Xiang Bo to relieve Xiang Yu's suspicion.
The next time, Pei Gong led more than a hundred cavalry to Hongmen to pay homage to Xiang Yu, and explained: The Qin Dynasty's treasury was sealed, and the army retreated to Ba Shang to wait for the king. The seclusion was to guard against thieves and not to violate the king's kindness.
Xiang Yu had given up the idea of ​​killing Pei Gong. Fan Zeng still wanted to kill Pei Gong. Thanks to Zhang Liang and Fan Sha, he was spared.
For details, see "Gaodi Ji".
A few days later, Xiang Yu led his troops to sack Xianyang, killed Qin's prince Ying, and burned the palace of Qin. The fire did not go out for three months. He seized the treasures and beauties of Qin and headed east. The people of Qin were greatly disappointed.
At this time, Han Sheng persuaded Xiang Wangdao: "Guanzhong relies on dangerous mountains and rivers, is surrounded by fortresses, and has fertile land. It can be used as a capital to dominate."
King Xiang saw that the palaces of the Qin Dynasty were all burned and dilapidated, and he missed his hometown and wanted to return to the east. He said: If you don't return to your hometown if you are rich and noble, it will be like walking at night wearing brocade clothes.
Han Sheng said: People say that the Chu people are like monkeys wearing human hats, and it is true.
When King Xiang heard about it, he killed Han Sheng.
At the beginning, King Huai made an agreement with the generals that whoever entered Tongguan first could become king in the pass.
Xiang Yu had betrayed the alliance. King Xiang sent someone to ask King Huai for instructions. King Huai said: "We will do it as agreed before."
Xiang Yu said: King Huai was established by my Lord Wu Xin of the Xiang family. He has no merit, so how can he be the leader of the alliance and establish an alliance?
At the beginning of the war in the country, he temporarily supported the descendants of the princes as kings in order to attack the Qin Dynasty.
However, I personally wore armor and held a gun, was the first to start the uprising, lived in the open air for three years, destroyed Qin and brought peace to the world. It was all because of the strength of the generals and me!
Even though King Huai has no merit, he should still be given land and respected as king. All the generals said: OK.
So Xiang Yu ostensibly respected King Huai as the Righteous Emperor, saying: In ancient times, those who were kings had thousands of territories, and they must have settled in the upper reaches of the water.
So he moved King Huai to Changsha and established Chen County as his capital.
Then divide the world's fiefdoms and let the princes call themselves kings.
King Xiang and Fan Zeng suspected that Pei Gong wanted to occupy the world. After they had reconciled, they were worried about breaking the contract and fearing that the princes would betray them, so they secretly planned: The roads in Bajun and Shujun are difficult and dangerous, and all the people exiled by the Qin Dynasty are in Shu.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
乃曰： 巴、蜀亦关中地。
故立沛公为汉王，王巴、蜀、汉中。
而参分关中，王秦降将以距塞汉道。
乃立章邯为雍王，王咸阳以西。
长史司马欣，故栎阳狱吏，尝有德于梁；都尉董翳，本劝章邯降。
故立欣为塞王，王咸阳以东至河；立翳为翟王，王上郡。
徙魏王豹为西魏王，王河东。
瑕丘公申阳者，张耳嬖臣也，先下河南，迎楚可上。立阳为河南王。
赵将司马卬定河内，数有功。立卬为殷王，王河内。
徙赵王歇王代。
赵相张耳素贤，又从入关，立为常山王，王赵地。
当阳君英布为楚将，常冠军。立布为九江王。
番君吴芮帅百粤佐诸侯，从入关，立芮为衡山王。
义帝柱国共敖将兵击南郡，功多，因立为临江王。
徙燕王韩广为辽东王。
燕将臧荼从楚救赵，因从入关。立荼为燕王。
徙齐王田市为胶东王。
齐将田都从共救赵，入关。立都为齐王。
故秦所灭齐王建孙田安，羽方渡河救赵，安下济北数城，引兵降羽。立安为济北王。
田荣者，背梁不肯助楚击秦，以故不得封。
陈馀弃将印去，不从入关，然素闻其贤，有功于赵，闻其在南皮，故因环封之三县。
番君将梅鋗功多，故封十万户侯。
羽自立为西楚伯王，王梁、楚地九郡，都彭城。
诸侯各就国。
田荣闻羽徙齐王市胶东，而立田都为齐王，大怒，不肯遣市之胶东，因以齐反，迎击都。
都走楚。
市畏羽，乃亡之胶东就国。
荣怒，追杀之即墨，自立为齐王。
translation: 
So he said: Bajun and Shujun are also the seven places in Guanzhong.
Therefore, he established Pei Gong as the king of Han and took over Bajun, Shujun and Mozhong.
And the Guanzhong was divided into three parts, and the Qin Dynasty surrendered to the king to stop the Han king.
Zhang Han was granted the title of King Yong and took over the area west of Xianyang.
Chief Shi Sima Xin, the former warden of Luyang, had been kind to Xiang Liang; Captain Dong Yi had originally persuaded Zhang Han to surrender to the Chu army.
Therefore, Sima Xin was made King of Sai, with the territory from Xianyang to the Yellow River; Dong Yi was made King of Zhai, with Shangjun.
He changed the title of King Bao of Wei to King of Western Wei and took over Hedong.
Xiaqiu Gong Shen Yang was a close minister of Zhang Er. He conquered Henan first and met the Chu army at the Yellow River. Therefore, Shen Yang was made king of Henan.
Zhao general Sima Yin pacified Hanoi and made many meritorious deeds. He appointed Sima Yin as a Yin Gong and took control of Hanoi.
He changed the title of King Zhao Xie to acting king.
Zhang Er, the Prime Minister of Zhao, had always been a virtuous man, so he followed him into the Pass. He made Zhang Er the King of Changshan and took over the land of Zhao.
Dangyang Jun Yingbu was appointed as a general of Chu, and he was often brave enough to defeat all the armies. He established Yingbu as the king of Jiujiang.
Fan Jun Wu Rui led hundreds of Cantonese troops to assist the princes, and then followed him into the pass, making Wu Rui the king of Hengshan.
Gong Ao, the Zhuguo of the Yi Emperor, led troops to attack Nanjun. He made many contributions and established Gong Ao as the King of Linjiang.
The title of King Han Guang of Yan was changed to King of Liaodong.
Yan general Zang Tu followed the Chu army to rescue Zhao State, and then followed him into the Pass and established Zang Tu as King of Yan.
The title of King Qi Tianshi was changed to King of Micelle.
Qi general Tian Du followed him to rescue Zhao State, and then followed him into the Pass and established Tian Du as the king of Qi.
Tian An, the grandson of Tian Jian, the king of Qi who was destroyed by the Qin Dynasty, captured several cities in Jibei when Xiang Yu was crossing the river to rescue Zhao. He led his troops to surrender to Xiang Yu and established Tian An as the king of Jibei.
Tian Rong betrayed Xiang Liang and refused to send troops to follow the Chu army to attack the Qin army, so he did not seal it.
Chen Yu left his general seal and left without following him into the pass, but he always knew that he was a virtuous man and had made great contributions to the Zhao State. He knew that he was in Nanpi, so he granted him the seal of the three counties around Nanpi.
Fan Jun's general Mei Guo made a lot of contributions, so he was granted the title of 100,000 households.
King Xiang proclaimed himself the Overlord of Western Chu, took over nine counties in the Liang-Chu region, and established his capital at Pengcheng.
The princes each went to the feudal country.
When Tian Rong learned that Xiang Yu had changed the title of Qi King Tian Shi to Miaojie and made Qi general Tian Du the king of Qi, he was furious and refused to let Tian Shi go to Miaojie. He took advantage of the situation to occupy Qi territory to rebel against Chu, and attacked Tiandu head-on.
Tiandu fled to Chu.
King Tianshi of Qi was afraid of King Xiang, so he fled to Miaojie to take office.
Tian Rong became angry and pursued Jimo and killed him. Tian Rong established himself as King of Qi.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
予彭越将军印，令反梁地。
越乃击杀济北王田安。
田荣遂并王三齐之地。
时汉王还定三秦。
羽闻汉并关中，且东，齐、梁畔之，大怒，乃以故吴令郑昌为韩王以距汉，令萧公角等击彭越。
越败萧公角等。
时，张良徇韩，遗项王书曰： 汉王失职，欲得关中，如约即止，不敢东。
又以齐、梁反书遗羽，羽以此故无西意，而北击齐。
征兵九江王布，布称疾不行，使将将数千人往。
二年，羽阴使九江王布杀义帝。
陈馀使张同、夏说说齐王荣，曰： 项王为天下宰，不平，今尽王故王于丑地，而王群臣诸将善地，逐其故主，赵王乃北居代，馀以为不可。
闻大王起兵，且不听不义，愿大王资馀兵，使击常山，以复赵王，请以国为扞蔽。
齐王许之，因遣兵往。
陈馀悉三县兵，与齐并力击常山，大破之。
张耳走归汉。
陈馀迎故赵王歇反之赵。
赵王因立馀为代王。
羽至城阳，田荣亦将兵会战。
荣不胜，走至平原，平原民杀之。
羽遂北烧夷齐城郭室屋，皆坑降卒，系虏老弱妇女。
徇齐至北海，所过残灭。
齐人相聚而畔之。
于是田荣弟横收得亡卒数万人，反城阳。
羽因留，连战未能下。
汉王劫五诸侯兵，凡五十六万人，东伐楚。
羽闻之，即令诸将击齐，而自以精兵三万人南从鲁出胡陵。
汉王皆已破彭城，收其货赂美人，日置酒高会。
羽乃从萧晨击汉军而东，至彭城，日中，大破汉军。
汉军皆走，迫之穀、泗水。
汉军皆南走山，楚又追击至灵辟东睢水上。
汉军却，为楚所挤，多杀。
汉卒十余万皆入睢水，睢水为不流。
汉王乃与数十骑遁去。
语在《高纪》。
太公、吕后间求汉王，反遇楚军。
楚军与归，羽常置军中。
汉王稍收散卒，萧何亦发关中卒悉诣荥阳，战京、索间，败楚。
楚以故不能过荥阳而西。
汉军荥阳，筑甬道，取敖仓食。
三年，羽数击绝汉甬道，汉王食乏，请和，割荥阳以西为汉。
羽欲听之。历阳侯范增曰： 汉易与耳，今不取，后必悔之。
羽乃争围荥阳。
汉王患之，乃与陈平金四万斤以间楚君臣。
语在《陈平传》。
项羽以故疑范增，稍夺之权。
范增怒曰： 天下事大定矣，君王自为之！
translation: 
Granted the seal to General Peng Yue and asked him to rebel against Chu in Liang.
Peng Yue killed Tian An, the king of Jibei.
So Tian Rong annexed the land of Sanqi.
At this time, the king of Han returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties.
Xiang Yu heard that the King of Han had annexed Ding Guanzhong and was about to move in. Qi and Liang had betrayed him. He was furious, so he appointed Zheng Chang, the former magistrate of Wu County, as King of Han to resist the Han army, and ordered Xiao Gongjiao and others to attack Pengyue.
Peng Yue defeated Xiao Gongjiao and others.
At that time, Zhang Liang pacified Han and wrote to King Xiang, saying: The King of Han has lost his due title and hopes to get Guanzhong. As the covenant said, he stopped military operations and did not dare to enter.
He also handed over the rebellion proclamations of Qi and Liang to King Xiang. Therefore, King Xiang had no intention of advancing westward and instead attacked Qi north.
King Xiang asked King Ying of Jiujiang to recruit troops. Yingbu said that he was ill and would not go, so he only sent his generals and several thousand people to go.
In the second year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu secretly ordered Wang Yingbu of Jiujiang to kill Emperor Yi.
Chen Yu secretly sent Zhang Tong and Xia Shuo to lobby Qi King Tian Rong: "It is unfair for Xiang Yu to dominate the world." Now, I think it is impossible to seal the original princes in a bad place, and seal his ministers and generals in a good place, drive away the original king Zhao, and let him live in the north.
I heard that the king raised an army and refused to listen to Xiang Yu's unreasonable orders. I hope that the king will fund me, Chen Yu, with some troops so that I can attack Changshan, restore King Zhao's original territory, and let our country serve as a barrier for Qi.
The King of Qi agreed and sent troops to Zhao.
Chen Yu mobilized all the troops from the three counties to join forces with the Qi army to attack Changshan and defeated the Changshan army.
Zhang Er fled and surrendered to the king of Han.
Chen Yu welcomed the original King of Zhao Xie back to Zhao from Daidi.
Therefore, King Zhao made Chen Yu the acting king.
Xiang Yu arrived at Chengyang, and Tian Rong also led the troops to fight.
Tian Rong failed in the battle and fled to Pingyuan. The people of Pingyuan killed him.
Xiang Yu then marched north, burned and razed the cities and houses of Qi State, killed all the surrendered soldiers of Tian Rong, and robbed the old, weak and women of Qi State.
They fought all the way to the Beihai area and were devastated and destroyed wherever they went.
The people of Qi gathered to rebel against Xiang Yu.
At this time, Tian Rong's younger brother Tian Heng gathered tens of thousands of scattered soldiers from Qi to fight against Chu in Chengyang.
King Xiang therefore stayed and fought many times, but failed to capture it.
The King of Han commanded an army of five vassal states, totaling 560,000 men, to attack Chu.
When King Xiang learned of this, he ordered his generals to attack Qi, and personally led 30,000 elite soldiers to march southward from Lu County to Huling.
The Han army had already invaded Pengcheng, plundered goods, treasures and beauties, and prepared wine and feasts every day.
King Xiang launched an attack from Xiao County and went east to Pengcheng in the morning. At noon, he defeated the Han army.
The Han army was defeated on all fronts and squeezed into the valley and swimming rivers one after another.
The Han soldiers fled south to the mountains, and the Chu army pursued them to the Suishui River southeast of Lingpi.
The Han army retreated and was squeezed by the Chu army, resulting in heavy deaths.
More than 100,000 Han soldiers fell into the Sui River, and the Sui River was blocked and stopped flowing.
The king of Han was able to escape with dozens of cavalry.
See "Gaodi Ji" for details.
Taigong and Empress Lu were looking for the King of Han from the alley, but they ran into the Chu army.
The Chu army took them back together, and Xiang Yu placed them in the military camp.
The King of Han gradually gathered the defeated armies from all directions, and Xiao He also mobilized the soldiers from Guanzhong to go to Rongyang and fight between Jingyi and Suoting in the south of Rongyang, defeating the Chu army.
Therefore, the Chu army could not cross Rongyang and advance westward.
The desert army stationed in Rongyang and built corridors to obtain Aocang's grain.
In the third year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, King Xiang repeatedly invaded and captured the desert army corridors. The King of Han was short of food and asked for peace, dividing the west of Rongyang and returning it to the Han.
King Xiang wanted to accept the peace offer, but Fan Zeng, Marquis of Liyang, said: The Han army is easy to deal with. If you don't attack now, you will regret it later.
King Xiang and Fan Zeng quickly surrounded Rongyang.
The King of Han was worried and gave Chen Ping 40,000 taels of gold to drive a wedge between King Xiang and his ministers.
See "Chen Ping Biography" for details.
King Xiang therefore suspected Fan Zeng and gradually deprived him of his power.
Fan Zeng was furious and said: The world's affairs have been generally decided, the king can do it himself!


Chunk 13: 
original: 
愿赐骸骨归。
行未至彭城，疽发背死。
于是汉将纪信诈为汉王出降，以诳楚军，故汉王得与数十骑从西门出。
令周苛、枞公、魏豹守荥阳。
汉王西入关收兵，还出宛、叶间，与九江王黥布行收兵。
羽闻之，即引兵南。
汉王坚壁不与战。
是时，彭越渡睢，与项声、薛公战不邳，杀薛公。
羽乃东击彭越。
汉王亦引兵北军成皋。
羽已破走彭越，引兵西下荥阳城，亨周苛，杀枞公，虏韩王信，进围成皋。
汉王跳，独与滕公得出。北渡河，至修武，从张耳。韩信。
楚遂拔成皋。
汉王得韩信军。留止，使卢绾、刘贾渡白马津入楚地，佐彭越共击破楚军燕郭西，烧其积聚，攻下梁地十余城。
羽闻之，谓海春侯大司马曹咎曰： 谨守成皋。即汉欲挑战，慎毋与战，勿令得东而已。
我十五日必定梁地，复从将军。
于是引兵东。
四年，羽击陈留、外黄，外黄不下。
数日降，羽悉令男子年十五以上诣城东，欲坑之。
外黄令舍人儿年十三，往说羽曰： 彭越强劫外黄，外黄恐，故且降，待大王。
大王至，又皆坑之，百姓岂有所归心哉！
从此以东，梁地十余城皆恐，莫肯下矣。
羽然其言，乃赦外黄当坑者。
而东至睢阳，闻之皆争下。
汉果数挑楚军战，楚军不出。
使人辱之，五六日，大司马怒，渡兵汜水。
卒半渡，汉击，大破之，尽得楚国金玉货赂。
大司马咎、长史欣皆自刭汜水上。
translation: 
I hope you will give me some old bones to return to my hometown.
King Xiang promised him. Fan Zeng set out on his journey, but before he reached Pengcheng, he contracted sores on his back and died.
Therefore, the Han general Ji Xin deceived the Chu army by falsely claiming that the King of Han was going to surrender to Chu, so the King of Han was able to escape from the west gate with dozens of cavalry.
The king of Han sent Zhou Ke, Congong and Wei Bao to guard Rongyang.
The king of Han entered the Pass to the west to gather his troops, and then went south to Wan County and Ye County. He recruited Wang Yingbu of Jiujiang to gather the fleeing soldiers while marching.
After Xiang Yu heard about it, he immediately led his troops southward.
The king of Han strengthened the barriers and did not fight with him.
At this time, Peng Yue crossed the Suishui River, fought with Xiang Sheng and Duke Xue in Xiapi, and killed Duke Xue.
So Xiang Yu went east to attack Peng Yue.
The king of Han also led his army to the north and garrisoned Chenggao.
After Xiang Yu defeated Peng Yue, he led his troops to the west, captured Rongyang City, cooked and killed Zhou Ke, killed Congong, captured Han Wangxin, and then led his army to besiege Chenggao.
The King of Han escaped from Chenggao, escaped alone with Teng Gong, crossed the Yellow River north, rushed to Xiuwu, and reached the army of Zhang Er and Han Xin.
The Chu army then captured Chenggao.
The King of Han took control of Han Xin's troops and stayed. He sent Lu Wan and Liu Jia to cross Baima Jin and enter the Chu land. They assisted Peng Yue in defeating the Chu army in the west of Yan County, burned the Chu army's accumulated military supplies, and captured more than a dozen cities in Liang.
After Xiang Yu heard about it, he said to Cao Jiu, the commander-in-chief of Haichunhou: Guard Chenggao carefully. If the Han army challenges, don't fight them. Just prevent them from advancing.
I will definitely pacify Liang within fifteen days and then come back to join the general.
So he led his troops eastwards.
In the fourth year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu personally led his army to attack Chenliu and Waihuang, but Waihuang failed to capture them.
It took a few days for the Waihuang people to surrender. King Xiang ordered all men over the age of fifteen to come to the city and prepare to trap and kill them.
The retainer of the magistrate of Waihuang County had a son who was thirteen years old. He went to persuade Xiang Wangdao: Peng Yue forced the Waihuang people to kidnap. The Waihuang people were afraid, so they temporarily surrendered and waited for the king.
When the king comes and kills them all, will the people have the heart to submit?
From here to the east, people in more than ten cities in Liang were afraid and refused to surrender.
King Xiang thought his words were reasonable, so he pardoned the foreigner who wanted to kill him.
When Suiyang Yishu and other local people heard about this situation, they all rushed to submit to King Xiang.
As expected, the Han army challenged the Chu army many times, but the Chu army did not fight.
The Han army sent people to insult the Chu army. Five or six days later, Da Sima became angry and ordered his troops to cross the flood.
When the soldiers had just crossed the halfway point, the Han army attacked, defeated the Chu army, and took away all the Chu army's property.
Both the Grand Sima Cao Jiu and the Chief Sima Xin committed suicide by the flood.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
咎故蕲狱掾，欣故塞王，羽信任之。
羽至睢阳，闻咎等破，则引兵还。
汉军方围钟离目末于荥阳东，羽军至，汉军畏楚，尽走险阻。
羽亦军广武相守，乃为高俎，置太公其上，告汉王曰： 今不急下，吾亨太公。
汉王曰： 吾与若俱北面受命怀王，约为兄弟，吾翁即汝翁。
必欲亨乃翁，幸分我一杯羹。
羽怒，欲杀之。
项伯曰： 天下事未可知。且为天下者不顾家，虽杀之无益，但益怨耳。
羽从之。
乃使人谓汉王曰： 天下匈匈，徒以吾两人，愿与王挑战，决雌雄，毋徒罢天下父子为也。
汉王笑谢曰： 吾宁斗智，不能斗力。
羽令壮士出挑战。
汉有善骑射曰楼烦，楚挑战，三合，楼烦辄射杀之。
羽大怒，自被甲持戟挑战。
楼烦欲射，羽瞋目叱之。
楼烦目不能视，手不能发，走还入壁，不敢复出。
汉王使间问之，乃羽也，汉王大惊。
于是羽与汉王相与临广武间而语。汉王数羽十罪。
语在《高纪》。
羽怒，伏弩射伤汉王。
汉王入成皋。
时，彭越数反梁地，绝楚粮食，又韩信破齐，且欲击楚。
羽使从兄子项它为大将，龙且为裨将，救齐。
韩信破杀龙且，追至成阳，虏齐王广。
信遂自立为齐王。
羽闻之，恐，使武涉往说信。
语在《信传》。
时，汉关中兵益出，食多，羽兵食少。
汉王使侯公说羽，羽乃与汉王约，中分天下，割鸿沟而西者为汉，东者为楚，归汉王父母妻子。
已约，羽解而东。
五年，汉王进兵追羽，至固陵，复为羽所败。
汉王用张良计，致齐王信、建成侯、彭越兵，及刘贾入楚地，围寿春。
大司马周殷叛楚，举九江兵随刘贾，迎黥布，与齐、梁诸侯皆大会。
羽壁垓下，军少食尽。汉帅诸侯兵围之数重。
羽夜闻汉军四面皆楚歌，乃惊曰： 汉皆已得楚乎？
是何楚人多也！
translation: 
Cao Jiu was originally a prison officer in Qixian County, and Sima Xin was originally the king of Sai. King Xiang trusted them.
At this time, King Xiang arrived in Suiyang. When he heard that Cao Jiu and others were defeated, he led his troops to turn around.
The Han army surrounded Zhong Zhengmi to the east of Rongchang. Xiang Xing led his army to arrive. The returning army was afraid of the Chu army and all rushed to the dangerous area.
Xiang Yu's army was also stationed in Guangwu County for defense, so he made a high table, placed Liu Taigong on it, and announced to the King of Han: "If you don't surrender quickly, I will cook and kill Taigong Liu."
The King of Han said: King Xiang and I faced north together to accept King Huai's order, and we became brothers. My father is your father.
I'm going to cook your father to death, so I hope you'll give me a cup of broth.
King Xiang was furious and wanted to kill the Grand Duke.
Xiang Bo said: Major events in the world are unpredictable, and those who compete for the world do not care about the whole family. Even if you kill him, there will be no benefit, it will only add disaster.
King Xiang obeyed him.
King Xiang then sent someone to tell the King of Han: "The world has been in trouble for several years, just because of the two of us. We hope to challenge the King of Han to a showdown, so that we don't have to suffer in vain for the people of the world!"
The King of Han smiled and declined: "I would rather fight with wits than with strength."
King Xiang ordered his warriors to go out to challenge him.
The Han army had Loufan barbarians who were good at riding horses and archery. The Chu soldiers challenged them for three rounds, and the Loufan archers shot them dead.
King Xiang was furious, so he put on his armor and held a halberd to challenge.
When the archer in Loufan was about to shoot an arrow, King Xiang scolded him with angry eyes.
The shooters in the building did not dare to look or shoot. They ran back to the camp and never dared to come out again.
The king of Han sent someone to inquire about the situation and found out that the challenger was King Xiang. The king of Han was shocked.
When King Xiang was dispatched, he approached the King of Han and had a conversation with each other facing the Guangwu Stream. The King of Han listed several of King Xiang's ten major crimes.
The incident is recorded in "Gaodi Ji".
King Xiang was angry, and the ambush archers shot King Han.
The king of Han ran into Chenggao.
At this time, Peng Yue repeatedly attacked Liang, cutting off the food supply of the Chu army. Han Xin also captured Qi and was about to attack the Chu army.
Xiang Yu sent his nephew Xiang Ta as general and Long Qie as deputy general to rescue Qi.
Han Xin defeated and killed Long Qie, pursued the defeated army to Chengyang County, and captured Qi King Tian Guang.
Han Xin took the opportunity to proclaim himself King of Qi.
When Xiang Yu heard the news, he became frightened and sent Wu She to persuade Han Xin to surrender.
The incident is recorded in "Han Xin Zhuan".
At this time, a large number of soldiers were sent to the Han Pass, and there was a lot of food. King Xiang's soldiers were tired and had little food.
The King of Han sent Duke Hou to lobby King Xiang, and King Xiang made an agreement with the King of Han: the world would be divided equally, and the land to the west of the divide would belong to the Han State, and the land bounded by the divide would belong to the Chu State, and the parents, wives, and children of the King of Han would be returned to him.
After the agreement, Xiang Yu gathered his troops and returned.
In the fifth year of King Han's reign, the Han army marched to pursue Xiang Yu's army and reached Guling County, but was defeated by Xiang Yu again.
The king of Han used Zhang Liang's strategy to mobilize the troops of King Han Xin of Qi and Pengyue of Jianjian Hou. He also asked Liu Mai to lead his troops into Chu territory and surrounded Shouchun.
The great Sima Zhou Yin betrayed the Chu State and led all the soldiers of Jiujiang to follow Liu Mai, welcome Ying Bu, and join all the princes of Qi State, Liang State and so on.
Xiang Yu's army built a fortress under the Gaixia. With a small number of soldiers and no food, the Han army and the princes' soldiers surrounded the Chu army.
At night, when he heard the Han army singing Chu songs from all sides, Xiang Yu was shocked and said: "Have all the Han armies obtained Chu's land?"
Why are there so many people in Chu!


Chunk 15: 
original: 
起饮帐中。
有美人姓虞氏，常幸从；骏马名骓，常骑。
乃悲歌慷慨，自为歌诗曰： 力拔山兮气盖世，时不利兮骓不逝。
骓不逝兮可奈何！虞兮虞兮奈若何！
歌数曲，美人和之。
羽泣下数行，左右皆泣，莫能仰视。
于是羽遂上马，戏下骑从者八百余人，夜直溃围南出驰。
平明，汉军乃觉之，令骑将灌婴以五千骑追羽。
羽渡淮，骑能属者百余人。
羽至阴陵，迷失道，问一田父，田父给曰 左 。
左，乃陷大泽中，以故汉追及之。
羽复引而东，至东城，乃有二十八骑。
追者数千，羽自度不得脱，谓其骑曰： 吾起兵至今八岁矣，身七十余战，所当者破，所击者服，未尝败北，遂伯有天下。
然今卒困于此，此天亡我，非战之罪也。
今日固决死，愿为诸军快战，必三胜，斩将，艾旗，乃后死，使诸君知吾非用兵罪，天亡我也。
于是引其骑因四隤山而为圜陈外向，汉骑围之数重。
羽谓其骑曰： 吾为公取彼一将。
令四面骑驰下，期山东为三处。
于是羽大呼驰下，汉军皆披靡。遂杀汉一将。
是时，杨喜为郎骑，追羽，羽还叱之，喜人马俱惊，辟易数里。
与其骑会三处。
汉军不知羽所居，分军为三，复围之。
羽乃驰，复斩汉一都尉，杀数十百人。
复聚其骑，亡两骑。
乃谓骑曰： 何如？
骑皆服曰： 如大王言。
于是羽遂引东，欲渡乌江。
乌江亭长檥船待，谓羽曰： 江东虽小，地方千里，众数十万，亦足王也。
愿大王急渡。
今独臣有船。汉军至，亡以渡。
羽笑曰： 乃天亡我，何渡为！
translation: 
So he got up and drank wine in the tent.
There was a beautiful woman named Yu, who was often favored and followed; there was a horse named Zui, who was often ridden.
At this time, Xiang Yu sang a tragic song generously. He composed a poem and sang: "The strength of the mountain is overwhelming, but the times are unfavorable and the glory will not fade away."
What can you do if your glory is not gone? What can you do if you are worried?
Singing several times, the beauty sang along.
Xiang Yu shed several lines of tears, and all the attendants also wept, unable to bear to look up.
So Xiang Yu mounted his horse, accompanied by more than 800 of his strong men on horseback. They broke out of the encirclement and headed south that night, their flying horses galloping.
At dawn, the Han army found out and ordered the cavalry general Guan Ying to lead five thousand cavalry to pursue him.
When Xiang Yu crossed the Huai River, his cavalry could only keep up with more than a hundred people.
When Xiang Yu arrived at Yinling, he lost his way and asked a farmer. The farmer lied to him and said: "Go left."
To the left, they fell into a large swamp, so the Han army caught up.
Xiang Yu led his troops eastward again, and when they arrived at Shucheng, there were only twenty-eight cavalry left.
The Han cavalry chased thousands of people. Xiang Yu himself expected that he would not be able to escape, so he said to his cavalry: It has been eight years since I started my army. I have fought more than seventy battles. All the enemies I fought were defeated, and all the enemies I attacked surrendered. I have never been defeated. Only then can I dominate the world.
However, today I am finally trapped here. This is because God wants to destroy me, and it is not the fault of the war.
I will fight to the death today. I am willing to fight happily for you. I will win three times in a row, kill the generals, chop down the flags, and then die in battle. Let you know that it is God who wants to destroy me, and it is not my fault in fighting.
So he divided his troops into four teams and charged in all directions, forming a circular formation with their weapons and sharp blades pointing outwards. The Han army has been heavily surrounded.
Xiang Yu said to his cavalry: I will kill one of his generals for you.
The cavalry were ordered to gallop down in all directions, and they agreed to gather in three places at the edge of the mountain.
So Xiang Yu shouted loudly and galloped down, and the desert army dispersed, so he killed a Han general.
At this time, Yang Xi let Lang ride and chased Xiang Yu. Xiang Yu turned around and shouted angrily. Yang happy himself and his horse were frightened and retreated for several miles.
Xiang Yu and the knights met in three places.
The Han army didn't know where Xiang Yu was, so they divided into three groups and re-encircled him.
Xiang Yu continued to run and killed another Han captain, killing dozens or hundreds of people.
He gathered his cavalry and lost only two.
Xiang Yu asked the cavalry: "How is it?"
The cavalry all said in admiration: Just as the king said.
At this time, King Xiang led his troops eastward to cross the Wu River.
The chief of the Wujiang Pavilion stopped his boat and waited for him, and said to Xiang Yu: Although the river is small, the land stretches thousands of miles, and the people are hundreds of thousands, it is enough to be king.
I hope your Majesty will cross the river quickly.
Now I am the only one with a boat. The desert army has arrived and there is no boat to cross the river.
King Xiang smiled and said: "God wants to destroy me, so why should I cross the river?"


Chunk 16: 
original: 
且籍与江东子弟八千人渡而西，今亡一人还，纵江东父兄怜而王我，我何面目见之哉？
纵彼不言，籍独不愧于心乎！
谓亭长曰： 吾知公长者也，吾骑此马五岁，所当无敌，尝一日千里，吾不忍杀，以赐公。
乃令骑皆去马，步持短兵接战。
羽独所杀汉军数百人。羽亦被十余创。
顾见汉骑司马吕马童曰： 若非吾故人乎？
马童面之，指王翳曰： 此项王也。
羽乃曰： 吾闻汉购我头千金，邑万户，吾为公得。
乃自刭。
王翳取其头，乱相輮蹈争羽相杀者数十人。
最后杨喜、吕马童、郎中吕胜、杨武各得其一体。
故分其地以封五人，皆为列侯。
汉王乃以鲁公号葬羽于穀城。
诸项支属皆不诛。
封项伯等四人为列侯，赐姓刘氏。
赞曰：昔贾生之《过秦》曰：
秦孝公据殽、函之固，拥雍州之地，君臣守而窥周室，有席卷天下，包举宇内，囊括四海，并吞荒之心。
当是时也，商君佐之，内立法度，务耕织，修守战之备，外连衡而斗诸侯。
于是秦人拱手而取西河之外。
孝公既没，惠文、武、昭襄蒙故业，因遗策，南取汉中，西举巴、蜀，东割膏腴之地，收要害之郡。
诸侯恐惧，会盟而谋弱秦，不爱珍器重宝肥饶之地，以致天下之士。
合从缔交，相与为一。
当此之时，齐有孟尝，赵有平原，楚有春申，魏有信陵。
此四贤者，皆明智而忠信，宽厚而爱人，尊贤重士，约从离横，兼韩、魏、燕、赵、宋、卫、中山之众。
translation: 
Moreover, eight thousand of Jiang Shu's descendants and I crossed the Yangtze River to march westward, and now no one has returned. Even though Jiang Shu's father and elders love me and regard me as their king, what face do I have to see them?
Even if they don't say it, don't I feel ashamed deep down in my heart?
So he said to the pavilion chief: I know you are a kind person. I have been riding this horse for five years. It is invincible. I once traveled thousands of miles in a day. I can’t bear to kill it, so I will give it to you!
So he ordered the cavalry to dismount and walk, holding short weapons to fight.
Xiang Ji killed hundreds of Han soldiers alone, and Xiang Yu was also injured in more than ten places.
Looking back, I saw Lü Matong, the cavalry commander of the Han army, saying: "Aren't you an acquaintance of mine?"
Lü Matong faced King Xiang, pointed it out to Wang Yi and said: "You are King Xiang!"
King Xiang said: "I heard that the king of Han offered a reward of gold for my head and granted ten thousand households in the city." Let me give you some kindness!
He killed himself and died.
Wang Yi took off Xiang Yu's head. Dozens of others trampled on each other and fought for Xiang Yu's body, killing each other.
In the end, Yang happy, Lu Matong, the doctor Lu Sheng and Yang Wu each got one of Xiang Yu's limbs.
Therefore, the fiefdom was divided and all five people were granted the title of marquis.
The king of Han buried Xiang Yu in Gucheng according to the title of Lu Gong.
None of the branches of the Xiang family were killed.
Xiang Bo and four other people were granted the title of marquis, and were given the surname Liu.
Praise: Previously, Mai Yi’s "On the Passage of Qin" said:
Qin Xiaogong occupied strong natural barriers such as Mount Wei and Hangu Pass, and owned a vast area of ​​Yongzhou. The monarchs and ministers clung to their bases to spy on the power of the Zhou Dynasty. They were determined to sweep the world, encompass the whole country, encompass the four seas, and annex all directions.
At this time, Shang Yang assisted him, established laws and systems internally, rewarded farming and weaving production, rectified defense and combat armaments, implemented alliances externally, and instigated other vassal states to fight against each other.
So the Qin people easily obtained a large area of ​​land west of the Yellow River.
After the death of Qin Xiaogong, King Huiwen, King Wu, and King Zhaoxiang inherited the old legacy and followed the policies of their ancestors. They captured the desert in the south, occupied Bashu in the west, cut off the fertile lands of the princes in the east, and captured the dangerous prefectures and counties.
The princes and states were deeply fearful and uneasy, so they formed an alliance and attempted to weaken Qin. They did not hesitate to use precious items, precious treasures, and fertile land to recruit talents from all over the world.
They joined forces to resist Qin.
At this time, the state of Qi had Lord Mengchang, the state of Zhao had Lord Pingyuan, the state of Chu had Lord Chunshen, and the state of Wei had Lord Xinling.
Four wise men were created, all of them were wise and loyal, generous and humane, respected the wise and valued talents. All countries formed an alliance and united the armies of Han, Wei, Yan, Zhao, Song, Wei, Zhongshan and other countries.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
于是六国之士有甯越、徐尚、苏秦、杜赫之属为之谋，齐明、周最、陈轸、召滑、楼缓、翟景、苏厉、乐毅之徒通其意。吴起、孙膑、带他、皃良、王廖、田忌、廉颇、赵奢之朋制其兵。
常以十倍之地，百万之军，仰关而攻秦，秦人开关延敌，九国之师遁巡而不敢进。
秦无亡矢遗镞之费，而天下已困矣。
于是从散约败，争割地而赂秦。
秦有余力而制其弊，追亡逐北，伏尸百万，流血漂卤，因利乘便，宰割天下，分裂山河；强国请服，弱国入朝。
施及孝文、庄襄王，享国之日浅，国家亡事。
及至始皇，奋六世之余烈，振长策而驭宇内，吞二周而亡诸侯，履至尊而制六合，执敲扑以鞭笞天下，威震四海。
南取百粤之地，以为桂林、象郡。
百粤之君頫首系颈，委命下吏。
乃使蒙恬北筑长城而守藩篱，却匈奴七百余里，胡人不敢南下而牧马，士不敢弯弓而报怨。
于是废先王之道，焚百家之言，以愚黔首。
堕名城，杀豪俊，收天下之兵聚之咸阳，销锋鍉铸以为金人十二，以弱天下之民。
然后践华为城，因河为池，据亿丈之城，临不测之川，以为固。
良将劲弩，守要害之处，信臣精卒，陈利兵而谁何。
天下已定，始皇之心，自心为关中之固，金城千里，子孙帝王万世之业也。
始皇既没，余威震于殊俗，然而陈涉，瓮牖绳枢之子，甿隶之人，迁徙之徒也，材能不及中庸，非有仲尼、墨翟之知，陶朱、猗顿之富。
蹑足行伍之间，而免起阡陌之中，帅罢散之卒，将数百之众，转而攻秦。
斩木为兵，揭竿为旗，天下云合向应，赢粮而景从，山东豪俊遂并起而亡秦族矣。
且天下非小，弱也；雍州之地，殽、函之固，自若也。
陈涉之位，不齿于齐、楚、燕、赵、韩、魏、宋、卫、中山之君；鉏耰束矜，不敌于钩戟长铩；適戍之众，不亢于九国之师；深谋远虑，行军用兵之道，非及曩时之士地。
translation: 
So the talents of the Six Kingdoms, including Ning Yue, Xu Shang, Su Qin, and Du He, made suggestions; Qi Ming, Zhou Zui, Chen Zhen, Zhao Hua, Lou Sui, Zhai Jing, Su Li, and Leyi came to contact each other; Wu Qi, Sun Bin, Dai Ta, Er Liang, Wang Liao, Tian Ji, Lian Po, and Zhao She led the army.
Once, with ten times the land of Qin and a million troops, they boarded Hangu Pass and attacked Qin. Qin opened the gate to attack the enemy, but the armies of the nine kingdoms fled and did not dare to advance.
Qin didn't waste a single arrowhead, and all the princes were exhausted.
So the alliance collapsed, the treaty was ruined, and they scrambled to cede land to bribe Qin.
Qin then had sufficient power to take advantage of the disadvantages of the various vassal states, pursue the fleeing troops, and drive away the defeated troops. Millions of corpses lay on the battlefield, and the shields were levitated by the blood. Relying on the favorable terrain and convenient opportunities, he slaughtered the entire world and divided the territories of each country. Then the strong countries asked for surrender, and the weak countries entered the dynasty and became vassals.
It continued to King Xiaowen and King Zhuang Xiang. Their reign was short and no major events happened in the country.
When Qin Shihuang arrived, he strengthened the great achievements of his father and ancestors for six generations. He wielded a long whip to control the world, conquered the east and west weeks and destroyed the princes and countries. He ascended to the throne of heaven and held the power to rule the world. He held a staff to whip the world and was powerful all over the world.
Seize the Baiyue area to the south and establish Guilin County and Xiang County.
The princes of Baiyue tied ropes around their necks, bowed their heads and obeyed orders, allowing the officials of the Qin Dynasty to drive them.
He also sent Meng Tian to the north to build the Great Wall and garrison the border fortress, and drove back the Xiongnu for more than 700 miles. The Hu people did not dare to go south and ravage the Central Plains, and the remaining scholars from the Six Kingdoms did not dare to raise troops to take revenge.
Therefore, Qin Shihuang abandoned the methods of governing the country by the previous kings and burned the books of various schools of thought to fool the common people.
Destroy the famous cities of the six countries, kill the heroes of each country, collect the weapons of the world and concentrate them in Xianyang, destroy the swords, guns and arrowheads, and cast twelve bronze figures to weaken the resistance of the people of the world.
Then, guard Jianshan Mountain as the city wall, rely on Tonghui as a protective city wall, guard the city hundreds of millions of meters high, and use the bottomless deep stream below as a solid barrier.
Good generals with strong crossbows guarded the military key points, loyal ministers and elite soldiers, equipped with sharp weapons, guarded the passes and questioned the passers-by.
The world was at peace, and Qin Shihuang thought for nothing that the situation in Guanzhong was dangerous and that there was a golden city thousands of miles away. This was the foundation for his descendants to become emperors one after another.
Qin Shihuang is dead, but his remaining power still shocks remote areas. However, a poor man like Chen She, who lived in a shabby house with urns as windows and ropes on the door shafts, worked as a farmhand, and was sent as a prisoner to guard the border, was not as talented as the average person, did not have the wisdom of Confucius and Mozi, and did not have the wealth of Tao Zhu and Yidun.
Once he joined the ranks of soldiers, he rose up among the garrison troops, led the exhausted garrison troops, and led a team of several hundred people to turn around and attack Qin.
They chopped down trees to use as weapons and held high bamboo poles as flags. People from all over the world gathered like a storm to respond. Carrying grain, they took part in the uprising like a shadow. Heroes from the vast area east of Yin Mountain rose up at the same time, thus destroying the royal family of the Qin Dynasty.
Besides, Qin's empire has not shrunk or become weak, and Yongzhou's geographical advantages and the dangers of Yinshan Mountain and Hangu Pass remain as strong as ever.
Chen She's status and prestige were not as high as those of the monarchs of Qi, Chu, Yan, Zhao, Han, Wei, Song, Wei, and Zhongshan; his hoes and halberd handles were not sharper than hooks and spears; the few hundred men assigned to guard the border were far less powerful than the armies of the Nine Kingdoms; his foresight, marching, and combat command skills were not comparable to those of previous generals.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
然而成败异变，功业相反，何也？
试使山东之国与陈涉度长絜大，比权量力，不可同年而语矣。
然秦以区区之地，致万乘之权，招八州而朝同列，百有余年，然后以六合为家，殽函为宫。
一夫作难而七庙堕，身死人手，为天下笑者，何也？
仁谊不施，而攻守之势异也。
周生亦有言， 舜盖重童子 ，项羽又重童子，岂其苗裔邪 何其兴之暴也！
夫秦失其政，陈涉首难，豪桀蜂起，相与并争，不可胜数。
然羽非有尽寸，乘势拔起陇亩之中，三年，遂将五诸侯兵灭秦，分裂天下而威海内，封立王侯，政繇羽出，号为 伯王 ，位虽不终，近古以来未尝有也。
及羽背关怀楚，放逐义帝，而怨王侯畔己，难矣。
自矜功伐，奋其私智而师古，始霸王之国，欲以力征经营天下，五年卒亡其国，身死东城，尚的觉寤，不自责过失，乃引 天亡我，非用兵之罪 ，岂不谬哉！
translation: 
However, success and failure are different changes, and the achievements are completely opposite. Why?
Just imagine that the vassal states east of Mount Jiang were compared with Chen Sheng in measuring length, size, power, and strength. It would be impossible to say the same thing or compare with Chen Sheng.
However, the Qin State developed into a powerful country with tens of thousands of chariots by virtue of its mere territory. It suppressed the other eight states and caused all the princes to come to worship. It took more than a hundred years to finally regard the world as its home, and Jianshan and Hangu Pass as its palace walls.
However, Chen Sheng was the first to attack, and all the ancestral temples of Qin were destroyed. Emperor Qin II and Ziying were killed, making everyone laugh at the world. Why is this?
Because benevolence and righteousness are not practiced, the situation of attacking and defending is different.
Zhou Sheng once said that Shun's eyes had double pupils. I also heard that Xiang Yu also had double pupils. Is Xiang Yu a descendant of Shun?
Why this sudden rise? The Qin Dynasty made a mistake in its political order, and Chen She was the first to attack. Heroes swarmed in and fought with each other, countless of them.
However, Xiang Yu did not have a large-scale fiefdom, but he took advantage of the momentum among the people. After three years, he led the five princes to destroy the Qin Dynasty, divided the world and shocked the sea.
When he betrayed the covenant of "whoever enters Guanzhong first will be king of Guanzhong", missed Chu's return, expelled Emperor Yi, and complained that the princes and kings betrayed him, his situation became difficult.
He was arrogant about his military exploits and showed off his personal wisdom instead of following the example of the ancient sages. He began to think that he was doing the business of an overlord and wanted to use force to conquer the world. As a result, he lost his country in five years and died in Shucheng. He still didn't realize it and didn't blame himself for his mistakes. He even said that God wanted to destroy me. It was not the fault of the soldiers. Isn't it ridiculous?


