Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 2, 3, 8]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
淮南厉王长，高帝少子也，其母故赵王张敖美人。
高帝八年，从东垣过赵，赵王献美人，厉王母也，幸，有身。
赵王不敢内宫，为筑外宫舍之。
及贯高等谋反事觉，并逮治王，尽捕王母兄弟美人，系之河内。
厉王母亦系，告吏曰： 日得幸上，有子。
吏以闻，上方怒赵，未及理厉王母。
厉王母弟赵兼因辟阳侯言吕后，吕后妒，不肯白，辟阳侯不强争。
厉王母已生厉生，恚，即自杀。
吏奉厉王诣上，上悔，令吕后母之，而葬其母真定。
真定，厉王母家县也。十一年，淮南王布反，上自将击灭布，即立子长为淮南子。
王早失母，常附吕后，孝惠、吕后时以故得幸无患，然常心怨辟阳侯，不敢发。
及孝文初即位，自以为最亲，骄蹇，数不奉法。
上宽赦之。
三年，入朝，甚横。
从上入苑猎，与上同辇，常谓上 大兄 。
厉王有材力，力扛鼎，乃往请辟阳侯。
辟阳侯出见之，即自袖金椎椎之，命从者刑之。
驰诣阙下，肉袒而谢曰： 臣母不当坐赵时事，辟阳侯力能得之吕后，不争，罪一也。
赵王如意子母无罪，吕后杀之，辟阳侯不争，罪二也。
吕后王诸吕，欲以危刘氏，辟阳侯不争，罪三也。
臣谨为天下诛贼，报母之仇，伏阙下请罪。
文帝伤其志，为亲故不治，赦之。
当是时，自薄太后及太子诸大臣皆惮厉王，厉王以此归国益恣，不用汉法，出入警跸，称制，自作法令，数上书不逊顺。
文帝重自切责之。
时帝舅薄昭为将军，尊重，上令昭予厉王书谏数之，曰：
translation: 
King Li of Huainan, with a long name, was the youngest son of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty. His mother used to be the beauty of King Zhao Zhang Ao.
In the eighth year of Emperor Gao's reign, Emperor Gao passed by the State of Zhao from Dongyuan. King Tong presented a beautiful woman to Emperor Gao. This was King Li's mother. She became pregnant after being favored.
King Zhao did not dare to let her return to the palace, so he built an outer palace for her to live in.
When the rebellion by Guangao and others was discovered and King Zhao was implicated, King Tong's mother, brothers and beauties were all arrested and imprisoned in Hanoi.
King Li's mother was also imprisoned. She told the officials: I was once favored by the emperor and had a son.
After hearing this, the officials told the emperor that the emperor was very angry with King Zhao and ignored King Li's mother.
King Li's uncle Chang Jian told Empress Lu through Piyanghou. Empress Lu was jealous and refused to defend them, and Piyanghou did not fight for him.
Queen Li's mother committed suicide out of resentment and anger after giving birth to Queen Li.
The officials sent King Li to the emperor. The emperor regretted it very much and asked Queen Lu to raise King Li, and she was buried in the county where King Li's mother lived.
In the eleventh year of the Han Dynasty, the king of Huainan, Yingbu, rebelled. The emperor personally led his troops to destroy Yingbu, so he made his son Liu Chang the king of Huainan.
King Huainan lost his mother when he was young and often relied on Empress Lu. During the reigns of Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Lu, he was favored for this reason and had no trouble. However, he often resented Marquis Piyang in his heart, but he did not dare to show it.
In the early days of Emperor Xiaowen's accession to the throne, he thought he was the closest person to the royal family and was proud and indulgent, breaking the law several times.
The emperor forgave him.
In the third year of Emperor Wen's reign, he behaved very arrogantly when he came to court.
He followed the emperor to the royal gardens for hunting, rode in the same car with the emperor, and often called the emperor "big brother".
King Li was powerful and could lift the cauldron, so he went to pay homage to Marquis Piyang.
When Marquis Piyang came out to receive him, King Li took out the iron spine hidden in his sleeve and struck Marquis Piyang, and ordered his followers to chop off his head.
Then he drove his horse to the emperor's palace, took off his shirt, exposed his arms, and apologized to the emperor, saying: "My mother should not have committed a crime and been imprisoned for visiting the king. Marquis Piyang had the ability to persuade Empress Lu to save her, but he did not try his best to save her. This is the first crime."
King Zhao Ruyi and his mother were both innocent. Empress Lu murdered them, and Marquis Piyang did not try his best to dissuade them. This was the second crime.
Empress Lu wanted to harm our Liu family by conferring the title of king on the Lu family. Marquis Piyang did not try to dissuade her. This is the third crime.
I just killed bad guys for the people of the world and avenged my mother. I am willing to confess my sin to Your Majesty.
Emperor Wen took pity on him because he was avenging his relatives and pardoned his sin.
At that time, everyone from Queen Mother Bo to the Crown Prince and all the ministers were afraid of King Li. As a result, King Li returned to the feudal state and became more arrogant and indulgent. He did not obey the laws of the Han Dynasty. He had left and right guards and clear roads like the emperor when he came in and out. He made his own laws and showed disrespect when writing to the emperor several times.
Emperor Wen could not blame him personally.
At that time, the emperor's uncle Bo Zhao was a general. Emperor Wen respected him and ordered Bo Zhao to write to King Li, admonishing him many times:
summary:
King Li of Huainan, the youngest son of Emperor Gao of Han, was born to a former beauty of King Zhao Zhang Ao. His mother became pregnant after being favored by Emperor Gao during a visit to Zhao. When King Zhao was implicated in a rebellion, she was imprisoned and revealed her pregnancy, but Emperor Gao ignored her pleas. After giving birth to King Li, she committed suicide out of resentment. Emperor Gao regretted this and had Empress Lu raise the child. In the eleventh year of his reign, Emperor Gao made Liu Chang the King of Huainan after suppressing a rebellion. King Li grew up relying on Empress Lu and was favored during the reigns of Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Lu, but he resented Marquis Piyang for not saving his mother. After Emperor Xiaowen ascended, King Li became arrogant and broke laws repeatedly. In the third year of Emperor Wen's reign, he killed Marquis Piyang in revenge, claiming three crimes: failing to save his mother, not preventing Empress Lu's murder of King Zhao Ruyi, and not stopping Empress Lu from ennobling the Lu family. Emperor Wen pardoned him out of pity, but King Li grew more defiant, making his own laws and acting like an emperor.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
六年，令男子但等七十人与棘蒲侯柴武太子奇谋，以辇车四十乘反谷口，令人使闽越、匈奴。
事觉，治之，乃使使召淮南王。
王至长安，丞相张苍，典客冯敬行御史大夫事，与宗正、廷尉杂奏： 长废先帝法，不听天子诏，居处无度，为黄屋盖拟天子，擅为法令，不用法令。
及所置吏，以其郎中春为丞相，收聚汉诸侯人及有罪亡者，匿为居，为治家室，赐与财物、爵禄、田宅，爵或至关内侯，奉以二千石所当得。
大夫但、士伍开章等七十人与棘蒲侯太子奇谋反，欲以危宗庙社稷，谋使闽越及匈奴发其兵。
事觉，长安尉奇等往捕开章，长匿不予，与故中尉蕳忌谋，杀以闭口，为棺椁衣衾，葬之肥陵，谩吏曰 不知安在 。又阳聚土，树表其上曰 开章死，葬此下 。
及长身自贼杀无罪者一人；令吏论杀无罪者六人；为亡命弃市诈捕命者以除罪；擅罪人，无告劾系治城旦以上十四人；赦免罪人死罪十八人，城旦春以下五十八人；赐人爵关内侯以下九十四人。
前日长病，陛下心忧之，使使者赐枣脯，长不肯见拜使者。
南海民处庐江界中者反，淮南吏卒击之。陛下遣使者赍帛五千匹，以赐吏卒劳苦者。
长不欲受赐，谩曰 无劳苦者 。
南海王织上书献璧帛皇帝，忌擅燔其书，不以闻。
吏请召治忌，长不遣，谩曰 忌病 。
长所犯不轨，当弃市，臣请论如法 。
制曰： 朕不忍置法于王，其与列侯、吏二千石议。
列侯、吏二千石臣婴等四十三人议，皆曰： 宜论如法。
制曰： 其赦长死罪，废勿王。
有司奏： 请处蜀严道邛邮，遣其子、子母从居，县为筑盖家室，皆日三食，给薪菜盐炊食器席蓐。
制曰： 食长，给肉日五斤，酒二斗。
令故美人、材人得幸者十人从居。
于是尽诛所与谋者。
乃遣长，载以辎车，令县次传。
爰盎谏曰： 上素骄淮南王，不为置严相傅，以故至此。
translation: 
In the sixth year, he sent Dan and other seventy men to conspire with Chai Qi, the prince of Chaiwu, the Marquis of Jipu, and sent forty military chariots back to the valley, and sent people to Minyue and Xiongnu.
After the incident was discovered, the emperor wanted to punish him, so he sent someone to summon King Huainan to Beijing.
After the King of Huainan arrived in Chang'an, Prime Minister Zhang Cang and Dianke Feng Jing acted on behalf of the imperial censor. After interrogating Zong Zheng and Ting Wei, they reported: Liu Chang abandoned the laws of the late emperor and did not obey the orders of Emperor Shao. He lived extravagantly. He made chariot and horse umbrellas that could be compared with those of the emperor. He made laws without implementing the laws of the Han Dynasty.
He appointed officials on his own, made Lang Zhongchun the prime minister, gathered the guilty fugitives among the princes and kings of the desert, made them hide and arranged residences for them, managed their families, gave them money and items, granted them titles, and gave them land and houses as salaries. Some were as high as Guannai Marquis, and were given a salary of two thousand dan.
Seventy people, including Dan, the doctor, and Kaizhang, who had lost his official title due to guilt, and Chai Qi, the prince of Jipuhou, conspired to rebel, endangering the national power of the Han Dynasty, and planned to let the Minyue and Huns send troops.
After the incident was revealed, Chang'an Wei Qi and others went to arrest Kaizhang. Liu Chang hid him instead of handing him over to the officials, and conspired with the former lieutenant Lin Ji to kill Kaizhang. They prepared a coffin and clothes for him, buried him in Feiling, deceived the officials sent by the court and said: I don't know where he is, and built a tomb for him.
In addition, Liu Chang secretly killed an innocent person; ordered officials to kill six innocent people; made those guilty who should be punished in public hide; deceived the arresting officials in order to absolve them of their crimes; and gave people without authorization Fourteen people were sentenced to death for crimes above Chengdu without reporting the crime; 18 people were pardoned for crimes that should have been punished by death; 58 people were pardoned for crimes that should have been less than Chengdu; 94 people were given titles below Guannei Marquis.
Liu Chang fell ill a few days ago. His Majesty was very worried and sent an envoy to deliver preserved dates. However, Liu Chang refused to go out to see the envoy sent by the emperor.
The common people in the Nanhai area on the border of the Lujiang River made trouble. The King of Huainan sent troops to attack the rebels. His Majesty sent an envoy to deliver fifty pieces of silk as rewards to those who worked hard among the officers and soldiers.
Liu Chang did not want to accept the reward, but said contemptuously: "There is no hard work."
Wang Zhi of Nanhai wrote a letter to the emperor asking for jade and silk, but Qu Ji burned the letter without reporting it to the emperor.
Officials asked to summon Qu Ji to Chang'an, but Liu Chang refused to let Lin Ji come, saying that "Yin Ji was ill."
The crime Liu Chang committed should be beheaded in the market, and we request that he be sentenced in accordance with the law.
The emperor issued an edict saying: I cannot bear to punish King Li, so I should discuss it with the princes and the two thousand officials.
After discussion, the princes, 2,000 officials and 43 officials and infants all agreed that the matter should be dealt with according to law.
The emperor ordered: Then pardon Liu Chang's death penalty and dethrone him from the throne.
The officials reported: I request Zaoshang to exile him to Qiongdi, Yandao County, Shu County, and order his children and their mother to live with them. The Yandao County magistrate can build a house for them, and provide firewood, vegetable salt, cooking utensils and mats for each meal.
The emperor ordered: Supply Liu Chang with food, give him five kilograms of meat and two measures of wine.
He ordered ten favored concubines of his past to live with him.
So all the people who conspired with Liu Chang were killed.
He dispatched Liu Chang and sent them heavy-loaded carriages and horses, and all the counties they passed through were equipped with carriages to transport them one by one.
Yuan Ang remonstrated with the emperor and said: The emperor has always indulged the King of Huainan and did not set up strict prime ministers and tutors, which has led to this situation today.
summary:
Emperor Wen's uncle Bo Zhao admonished King Li in a letter, listing eight dangerous behaviors: abandoning his state, disobeying orders, prioritizing his mother's grave over his father's, and more. He warned that disaster would follow if King Li did not reform. King Li was displeased and ignored the advice. In the sixth year, he conspired with seventy men, including Chai Qi, to rebel, contacting Minyue and Xiongnu. The plot was discovered, and King Li was summoned to Chang'an. After interrogation, officials reported his crimes: abandoning Han laws, appointing officials without authorization, harboring fugitives, and planning rebellion. They demanded his execution, but Emperor Wen commuted the sentence to exile in Shu County.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
且淮南王为人刚，今暴摧折之，臣恐其逢雾露病死，陛下有杀弟之名，奈何！
上曰： 吾特苦之耳，令复之。
淮南王谓侍者曰： 谁谓乃公勇者？
吾以骄不闻过，故至此。
乃不食而死。
县传者不敢发车封。
至雍，雍令发之，以死闻。
上悲哭，谓爰盎曰： 吾不从公言，卒亡淮南王。
盎曰： 淮南王不可奈何，愿陛下自宽。
上曰： 为之奈何？
曰： 独斩丞相、御史以谢天下乃可。
上即令丞相、御史逮诸县传淮南王不发封馈侍者，皆弃市，乃以列侯葬淮南王于雍，置守冢三十家。
孝文八年，怜淮南王，王有子四人，年皆七八岁，乃封子安为阜陵侯，子勃为安阳侯，子赐为阳周侯，子良为东城侯。
十二年，民有作歌歌淮南王曰： 一尺布，尚可缝；一斗粟，尚可春。
兄弟二人，不相容！
上闻之曰，昔尧、舜放逐骨肉，周公杀管、蔡，天下称圣，不以私害公。
天下岂以为我贪淮南地邪！
乃徙城阳王王淮南故地，而追尊谥淮南王为厉王，置园如诸侯仪。
十六年，上怜淮南王废法不轨，自使失国早夭，乃徙淮南王喜复王故城阳，而立厉王三子王淮南故地，三分之：阜陵侯安为淮南王，安阳侯勃为衡山王，阳周侯赐为庐江王，东城侯良前薨，无后。
孝景三年，吴、楚七国反，吴使者至淮南，王欲发兵应之。
其相曰： 王必欲应吴，臣愿为将。
王乃属之。
相已将兵，因城守，不听王而为汉。
translation: 
The King of Huainan has an upright character, and now the Emperor has suddenly given him such a big blow. I am afraid that he could not withstand the fog, cold and dew and died of illness on the road. Then His Majesty has the reputation of killing his brothers. What should I do?
The emperor said: I am also troubled by this. I just let him regret himself and recalled him.
The King of Huainan asked the waiter: Who said you, me, and I are brave?
I ended up like this because I was arrogant and didn't know my fault.
So he stopped eating and starved to death.
The county escort did not dare to open the prison van.
When they arrived at Yongxian County, the magistrate of Yongxian County opened the prison car and reported to the emperor that King Huainan was dead.
When the emperor heard about it, he cried sadly and said to Yuan An: I didn't listen to you, and the result was that King Huainan died.
Yuan Ang said: The King of Huainan is already like this. There is no other way. Please be at ease, Your Majesty.
The emperor asked: What should we do?
He replied: Only by killing the prime minister and censor can we apologize to the world.
The emperor immediately ordered the prime minister and censors to arrest those who did not deliver food and food to the king of Huainan from various counties and beheaded them on the street. So the King of Huainan was buried in Yongdi according to the treatment of the princes, and thirty families were arranged to guard his tomb.
In the eighth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, the emperor took pity on King Huainan. He still had four sons, all seven or eight years old, so he named his sons Liu An the Marquis of Fuling, Liu Bo the Marquis of Anyang, Liu Ci the Marquis of Yangzhou, and Liu Liang the Marquis of Shucheng.
In the twelfth year, there was a folk song about the King of Huainan, saying: A foot of cloth can be sewed; a bushel of millet can be pounded.
The two brothers are incompatible!
After hearing this, the emperor said: In the past, Yao and Shun exiled their own flesh and blood, and Zhou Gong killed Guan Shu and Cai Shu. The whole world called them saints, and they would not harm the national interests for selfish reasons.
How can people in the world think that I am coveting the land of King Huainan?
So King Chengyang was moved to the old land of Huainan to become king, and King Mi of Huainan was named King Li, and his cemetery was set up according to the etiquette of the princes.
In the 16th year, the emperor took pity on King Huainan because he abolished Han law without authorization and behaved indulgently, which caused him to lose his feudal status and died at an early age. Therefore, he moved King Liu Xi of Huainan back to Chengyang as king, and established King Li's three sons as kings in his hometown of Huainan. They are: Fuling Hou Liu An as the King of Huainan, Anyang Hou Liu Bo as the King of Hengshan, and Yangzhou Hou Liu Ci as the King of Lujiang. Liu Liang, the Marquis of Shucheng, died young and had no descendants.
In the third year of Xiaojing's reign, the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled. Wu's envoys went to the King of Huainan, who wanted to send troops to meet the King of Wu.
His prime minister said: If your Majesty must raise an army with King Wu, I would like to be a general.
The king of Huainan then handed over the army to the prime minister.
After the prime minister had led the army, he held fast to the city and refused to obey the king's orders and went to the Han Dynasty.
summary:
King Li refused food and died on the way. Emperor Wen mourned and executed the officials who failed to provide food. He later enfeoffed King Li's four sons as marquises. In the sixteenth year, he made three of them kings in Huainan. During the Rebellion of the Seven States, King Huainan Liu An initially considered joining Wu but was restrained by his prime minister. Liu An, known for his literary pursuits, compiled the "Inner Books" and other works. He plotted rebellion after a comet appeared, believing the emperor had no heir. His daughter Liu Ling spied in Chang'an. The plot was exposed when his grandson Liu Jian informed on him. King Huainan committed suicide, and his kingdom was abolished as Jiujiang County.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
衡山王赐后乘舒生子三人，长男爽为太子，次女无采，少男孝。
姬徐来生子男女四人，美人厥姬生子二人。
淮南、衡山相责望礼节，间不相能。
衡山王闻淮南王作为畔逆具，亦心结宾客以应之，恐为所并。元光六年入朝，谒者卫庆有方术，欲上书事天子，王怒，故劾庆死罪，强榜服之。
内史以为非是，却其狱。
王使人上书告内史，内史治，言王不直。又数侵夺人田，坏人冢以为田。
有司请逮治衡山王，上不许，为置吏二百石以上。
衡山王以此恚，与奚慈、张广昌谋，求能为兵法候星气者，日夜纵臾王谋反事。
后乘舒死，立徐来为后，厥姬俱幸。
两人相妒。厥姬乃恶徐来于太子，曰： 徐来使婢蛊杀太子母。
太子心怨徐来。
徐来兄至衡山，太子与饮，以刃刑伤之。
后以此怨太子，数恶之于王。
女弟无采嫁，弃归，与客奸。
太子数以数让之，无采怒，不与太子通。
后闻之，即善遇无采及孝。
孝少失母，附后，后以计爱之，与共毁太子，王以故数系笞太子。
元朔四年中，人有贼伤后假母者，王疑太子使人伤之，笞太子。
后王病，太子时称病不侍。
孝、无采恶太子： 实不病，自言，有喜色。 王于是大怒，欲废太子而立弟孝。
后知王决废太子，又欲并废孝。
后有侍者善舞，王幸之，后欲令与孝乱以污之，欲并废二子而以己子广代之。
太子知之，念后数恶己无已时，欲与乱以止其口。
后饮太子，太子前为寿，因据后股求与卧。
后怒，以告王。
王乃召，欲缚笞之。
太子知王常欲废己而立孝，乃谓王曰： 孝与王御者奸，无采与奴奸，王强食，请上书。
translation: 
Queen Chengshu of Hengshan King Liu Ci gave birth to three children: the eldest son Liu Shuang was the prince, the second daughter Liu Wucai, and the youngest son Liu Xiao.
The beloved concubine Xu Lai gave birth to four children, and the beautiful concubine Jue Ji gave birth to two children.
The king of Huainan and the king of Hengshan blamed each other and complained, and there were constant conflicts.
The King of Hengshan heard that the King of Huainan was preparing to use the utensils for rebellion, and secretly recruited talents to deal with them to prevent them from being annexed by him. In the sixth year of Yuanguang, King Hengshan went to the capital to pay homage. The visitor, Wei Qing, knew magic and wanted to write a letter to serve the emperor. The King of Hengshan became angry and impeached Wei Qing for committing a capital crime. He tortured Wei Qing to extract a confession and made him admit to the capital crime.
The internal historian believed that the case was untrue and withdrew.
King Hengshan sent a letter to the internal historian. When the internal historian was interrogated, he pointed out that King Hengshan was not upright and had repeatedly invaded other people's fields and used other people's cemeteries as fields.
Some officials requested that King Hengshan be arrested and punished, but the emperor did not allow it. He only deprived King Hengshan of the right to appoint officials with a salary of more than 200 shi.
The King of Hengshan was very dissatisfied and conspired with Xi Ci and Zhang Guangchang to find people who could use military astrology to plot rebellion day and night.
After Queen Chengshu died, King Hengshan made Xu Lai his queen, and Jue Ji was also favored.
Xu Lai and Jue Ji were jealous of each other. Jue Ji slandered Xu Lai in front of the prince: Xu Lai sent his slaves to kill the prince's mother using witchcraft.
The prince resented Xu Lai.
Xu Lai's brother came to Hengshan. The prince drank with him and stabbed him with a knife.
The queen hated the prince because of this and slandered the prince in front of King Hengshan.
After the prince's sister Wucai got married, her husband divorced her and she committed adultery with a guest.
The prince scolded her many times, and she was unhappy and stopped interacting with the prince.
After the queen heard about it, she won over Wucai and Liu Xiao.
Liu Xiao lost his mother when he was young and grew up with the queen. The queen doted on him because of her plans. Liu Xiao and the queen went to King Hengshan to slander the prince, and King Hengshan whipped the prince many times.
During the fourth year of Yuanshuo, someone injured the queen's stepmother. King Hengshan suspected that the prince had sent someone to do it, so he whipped him.
Later, when the King of Hengshan fell ill, the prince said that he was also ill and refused to attend to him.
Liu Xiao and Liu Wucai slandered the prince together and said: He is actually not sick. He said this himself, and he was very happy when he said it. King Hengshan was furious and wanted to depose the crown prince and install his younger brother Liu Xiao.
After the queen learned that King Hengshan was determined to depose the crown prince, she wanted him to depose Liu Xiao together.
The queen had a waiter who was good at dancing, and the King of Hengshan favored her. The queen wanted to send the waiter to have an affair with Liu Xiao, and after making Liu Xiao responsible for the crime, she also deposed the two brothers so that her son Liu Guang could replace them.
After the prince found out, he hated the queen for harming him many times and there was no end to it, so he also wanted to silence her with the crime of fornication.
The queen invited the prince to drink. When the prince came to celebrate her birthday, he hugged her thigh and asked to sleep with her.
The queen was furious and told the king of Hengshan.
The King of Hengshan summoned the prince and wanted to tie him up and whip him.
The prince knew that the king often wanted to depose him and make Liu Xiao the prince, so he told the king of Hengshan: Liu Xiao has committed adultery with the king's attendants, and Wucai has committed adultery with his slaves. Your king, please pay attention to your diet. I am going to sue the emperor.
summary:
King Hengshan Liu Ci, brother of King Huainan, also plotted rebellion. He feuded with his son, Prince Liu Shuang, and favored his younger son Liu Xiao. After Queen Chengshu died, Queen Xu Lai and concubine Jue Ji slandered the prince. The prince was whipped and later accused his father of rebellion. King Hengshan committed suicide when investigated. His kingdom was also abolished. The historian comments that both kings, despite being imperial relatives, perished due to their rebellious nature and the corrupting influence of their ministers, noting that people of Jingchu have historically been prone to insurrection.

