Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 2, 4, 11]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
李广，陇西成纪人也。
其先曰李信，秦时为将，逐得燕太子丹者也。
广世世受射。
孝文十四年，匈奴大入萧关，而广以良家子从军击胡，用善射，杀首虏多，为郎，骑常侍。
数从射猎，格杀猛兽，文帝曰： 惜广不逢时，令当高祖世，万户侯岂足道哉！
景帝即位，为骑郎将。
吴、楚反时，为骁骑都尉，从太尉亚夫战昌邑下，显名。
以梁王授广将军印，故还，赏不行。
为上谷太守，数与匈奴战。
典属国公孙昆邪为上泣曰： 李广材气，天下亡双，自负其能，数与虏确，恐亡之。
上乃徙广为上郡太守。
匈奴侵上郡，上使中贵人从广勒习兵击匈奴。
中贵人者数十骑从，见匈奴三人，与战。
射伤中贵人，杀其骑且尽。
中贵人走广，广曰： 是必射雕者也。
广乃从百骑往驰三人。
三人亡马步行，行数十里。
广令其骑张左右翼，而广身自射彼三人者，杀其二人，生得一人，果匈奴射雕者也。
已缚之上山，望匈奴数千骑，见广，以为诱骑，惊，上山陈。
广之百骑皆大恐，欲驰还走。
广曰： 我去大军数十里，今如此走，匈奴追射，我立尽。
今我留，匈奴必以我为大军之诱，不我击。
广令曰： 前！
未到匈奴陈二里所，止，令曰： 皆下马解鞍！
骑曰： 虏多如是，解鞍，即急，奈何？
广曰： 彼虏以我为走，今解鞍以示不去，用坚其意。
有白马将出护兵。
广上马，与十余骑奔射杀白马将，而复还至其百骑中，解鞍，纵马卧。
translation: 
Li Guang, a native of Shengqi, Longxi County.
His ancestor Li Zhi was a general in the Qin Dynasty and once hunted down Prince Dan of Yan State.
Li Guang's family has been learning archery for generations.
In the fourteenth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, the Huns invaded Xiaoguan in large numbers. Li Guang joined the army to fight against the Huns as a son of a good family. Because he was good at archery, he killed and captured many enemies. He became a Langguan of the Han Dynasty and served as a riding attendant.
Li Guang often went hunting with Emperor Wen and killed fierce beasts, so Emperor Wen said: It's a pity that you didn't get the chance; if you were in the era of Emperor Gao, it wouldn't be a problem to be granted the title of Marquis of Ten Thousand Households!
Emperor Xiaojing ascended the throne, and Li Guang was appointed Cavalry General.
When the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled, Li Guang served as the commander of Xiaoqi. He followed Taiwei Zhou Yafu to attack Wu and Chu, and made outstanding achievements in Changyi City.
Because the King of Liang privately awarded General Li Guang the seal, he did not receive the reward after returning to the court.
He was transferred to the prefect of Shanggu and fought many battles with the Xiongnu.
Sun Kunxie, the Duke of Dian, said to the emperor with tears in his eyes: "Li Guang's talent is unparalleled in the world." He relied on his own ability and fought against the enemy many times, fearing that he would be sacrificed.
So he was transferred to the prefecture of Shangjun.
The Huns invaded Shangjun, and the emperor sent noble men to follow Li Guang and lead his own troops to fight against the Huns.
The noble man galloped with dozens of cavalry, met three Huns, and fought with them.
The three Huns turned around and fired arrows, wounding the noble man and killing almost all the cavalry he had brought with him.
The noble man ran to Li Guang. Li Guang said: This must be the Condor Shooter.
Li Guang then led a hundred cavalry to chase the three men.
The three men walked dozens of miles without riding horses.
Li Guang ordered his cavalry to disperse to the left and right, and Li Guang shot the three men himself, killing two and capturing one alive. It turned out to be the Huns' eagle shooter.
As soon as they tied up the man and went up the mountain, they saw thousands of Xiongnu cavalry. They saw Li Guang and thought it was the cavalry who was seducing them. They were all surprised and went up the mountain to get ready.
Li Guang's one hundred cavalry were frightened and wanted to run back quickly.
Li Guang said: We are dozens of miles away from the main army. If we run away with a hundred cavalry like this, if the Huns chase and shoot us, we will all die immediately.
Now that we stop, the Xiongnu must think that we are decoys of the army and will not dare to attack us.
Li Guang ordered: Forward!
After entering about two miles away from the Huns' position, they stopped and ordered: "Everyone, dismount and unsaddle!"
His cavalry said: There are many enemies and they are close. What if there is an emergency after unsaddled?
Li Guang said: Those enemies thought that we would escape, and now they took off their saddles to show that they would not leave. They used this method to confirm their suspicions.
So the Huns' cavalry finally did not dare to attack.
A general on a white horse came out to guard his soldiers. Li Guang mounted his horse, galloped over with more than a dozen cavalry, and shot the Xiongnu general on a white horse to death. Then he returned to his cavalry, took off the saddle, and ordered the soldiers to let go of their horses and lie down.
summary:
Li Guang, a native of Longxi County, was a descendant of a Qin general and came from a family skilled in archery. He began his military career during Emperor Wen's reign, fighting the Xiongnu at Xiaoguan, where his archery skills earned him a position as a Langguan. Emperor Wen lamented that Li Guang's talents would have earned him a marquisate in the era of Emperor Gaozu. Under Emperor Jing, he served as a Cavalry General and fought in the campaign against the rebellious seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu, but was denied a reward due to accepting a seal from the King of Liang. He later served as the Prefect of Shanggu and other border commanderies, frequently battling the Xiongnu.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
时会暮，胡兵终怪之，弗敢击。
夜半，胡兵以为汉有伏军于傍欲夜取之，即引去。
平旦，广乃归其大军。
后徙为陇西、北地、雁门中云中太守。
武帝即位，左右言广名将也，由是入为未央卫尉，而程不识时亦为长乐卫尉。
程不识故与广俱以边太守将屯。
及出击胡，而广行无部曲行陈，就善水草顿舍，人人自便，不击刁斗自卫，莫府省文书，然亦远斥候，未尝遇害。
程不识正部曲行伍营陈，击刁斗，吏治军簿至明，军不得自便。
不识曰： 李将军极简易，然虏卒犯之，无以禁；而其士亦佚乐，为之死。
我军虽烦忧，虏亦不得犯我。
是时，汉边郡李广、程不识为名将，然匈奴畏广，士卒多乐从，而苦程不识。
不识孝景时以数直谏为太中大夫，为人廉，谨于文法。
后汉诱单于以马邑城，使大军伏马邑傍，而广为骁骑将军，属护军将军。
单于觉之，去，汉军皆无功。
后四岁，广以卫尉为将军，出雁门击匈奴。
匈奴兵多，破广军，生得广。
单于素闻广贤，令曰： 得李广必生致之。
胡骑得广，广时伤，置两马间。
络而盛卧。行十余里，广阳死，睨其傍有一儿骑善马，暂腾而上胡儿马，因抱儿鞭马南驰数十里，得其余军。
匈奴骑数百追之，广行取儿弓射杀追骑，以故得脱。
于是至汉，汉下广吏。
translation: 
It was almost dusk on this beautiful day, and the Huns soldiers were always uncertain and did not dare to attack.
In the middle of the night, the Huns also thought that the Han army had an ambush nearby and would attack them at night, so the Huns all retreated.
Early the next morning, Li Guangcai returned to his main army.
Later, he successively served as the prefect of Longxi, Beidi, Yanmen and Yunzhong.
When Emperor Wu came to the throne, his ministers said that Li Guang was a famous general, so Li Guang was transferred to the Weiyang Palace Guards, while Cheng Bushi also served as the Changle Palace Guards at that time.
In the past, Cheng Bushi and Li Guang both led the army as governors of border counties and stationed fields to guard the border.
When he sent out troops to attack the Huns, Li Guang's army did not have strict organization, queues or formations. They stationed themselves near good water sources and grasslands, and stayed and stayed at their own convenience. They did not patrol or patrol at night to defend themselves. The military's documents and books were kept simple, but reconnaissance posts were also set up in the distance, so they did not encounter any danger.
Cheng Bushi strictly required the establishment, formation and formation, and patrolled at night, and the officers processed military documents until dawn, and the troops were not allowed to do what they wanted.
Cheng Bushi said: Li Guang's troops were very casual, but when the enemy suddenly attacked them, they were unable to parry them; and his soldiers were comfortable and happy, and they were all willing to die for him.
Although my troops are busy and busy, the enemy does not dare to invade us.
At that time, Li Guang and Cheng Bushi, the prefects of border counties in the Han Dynasty, were famous generals. However, the Huns were afraid of Li Guang's strategy, and the soldiers mostly liked to follow Li Guang but were reluctant to follow Cheng Bushi.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaojing, Cheng Bushi was appointed Taizhong doctor because of his repeated outspoken advice. He is an honest man and obeys the law.
Later, the Han Dynasty used the city of Mayi to lure Chanyu. A large army was sent to ambush in the valley near Mayi. Li Guang served as the general of the cavalry and was controlled by the guard general Han Anguo.
At that time, Shanyu noticed this situation and retreated, leaving the Han army with no military exploits.
Four years later, Li Guang was transferred from a guard to a general and attacked the Huns from Yanmen County.
The Huns had more soldiers and defeated Li Guang's army and captured Li Guang alive.
Shan Yu always heard that Li Guang was talented and issued an order: If Li Guang is captured, he must be delivered alive.
The Huns cavalry captured Li Guang, who was injured at the time. They placed Li Guang between the two horses and used ropes to form a net bag for Li Guang to lie down.
After walking for more than ten miles, Li Guang pretended to be dead and squinted at a Hun boy riding a good horse next to him. Li Guang suddenly jumped up, climbed on the Hun boy's horse, held the boy in his arms and rode south for dozens of miles, and gathered the remaining troops of him.
Hundreds of Xiongnu cavalry chased him. As he ran, Li Guang picked up the bow and arrow of the Xiongnu boy and shot the chasing cavalry to death, thus escaping.
So he returned to the Han capital, and the Han court handed Li Guang over to the judge.
summary:
During a campaign in Shangjun, Li Guang, with only a hundred cavalry, encountered thousands of Xiongnu. He cleverly halted his men and dismounted, convincing the enemy they were a decoy, which prevented an attack. After nightfall, the Xiongnu withdrew, suspecting an ambush. Li Guang later served as a palace guard under Emperor Wu, alongside Cheng Bushi. While Cheng Bushi's army was strictly disciplined, Li Guang's was more relaxed, yet his soldiers were loyal and willing to die for him. The Xiongnu feared Li Guang's strategies, and soldiers preferred serving under him.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
吏当广亡失多，为虏所生得，当斩，赎为庶人。
数岁，与故颍阴侯屏居蓝田南山中射猎。
尝夜从一骑出，从人田间饮。
还至亭，霸陵尉醉，呵止广，广骑曰： 故李将军。
尉曰： 今将军尚不得夜行，何故也！
宿广亭下。
居无何，匈奴入辽西，杀太守，败韩将军。
韩将军后徙居右北平，死。
于是上乃召拜广为右北平太守。
广请霸陵尉与俱，至军而斩之，上书自陈谢罪。
上报曰： 将军者，国之爪牙也。
《司马法》曰： 登车不式，遭丧不服，振旅抚师，以征不服，率三军之心，同战士之力，故怒形则千里竦，威振则万物状；是以名声暴于夷貉，威棱憺乎邻国。 夫报忿除害，捐残去杀，朕之所图于将军也；若乃免冠徒跣，稽颡请罪，岂朕之指哉！
将军其率师东辕，弥节白檀，以临右北平盛秋。
广在郡，匈奴号曰 汉飞将军 ，避之，数岁不入界。
广出猎，见草中石，以为虎而射之，中石没矢，视之，石也，他日射之，终不能入矣。
广所居郡闻有虎，常自射之。
及居右北平射虎，虎腾伤广，广亦射杀之。
石建卒，上召广代为郎中令。
元朔六年，广复为将军，从大将军出定襄。
诸将多中首虏率为侯者，而广军无功。
后三岁，广以郎中令将四千骑出右北平，博望侯张骞将万骑与广俱，异道。
行数百里，匈奴左贤王将四万骑围广，广军士皆恐，广乃使其子敢往驰之。
敢从数十骑直贯胡骑，出其左右而还，报广曰： 胡虏易与耳。
军士乃安。
为圜陈外乡，胡急击，矢下如雨。
汉兵死者过半，汉矢且尽。
广乃令持满毋发，而广身自以大黄射其裨将，杀数人，胡虏益解。
会暮，吏士无人色，而广意气自如，益治军。
军中服其勇也。
明日，复力战，而博望侯军亦军，匈奴乃解去。
汉军邑，弗能追。
是时，广军几没，罢归。
汉法，博望侯后期，当死，赎为庶人。
广军自当，亡赏。
初，广与从弟李蔡俱为郎，事文帝。
translation: 
The judge ruled that Li Guang had lost many men and horses and was captured alive by the enemy. He should be beheaded and use money to atone and become a civilian.
A few years later, Li Guang and Guan Qiang, the grandson of the former Yingyin Marquis who had retired to Lantian County, often went hunting in the Nanshan Mountains.
One night, I went out with a cavalryman and drank with others in the fields.
Returning to Ba Ling Pavilion, Ba Lingwei was drunk and yelled at Li Guang to stop him. Li Guang's subordinates said: This is the former General Li.
Tingwei said: The current general cannot pass at night, let alone his predecessor!
Li Guang was detained and lodged under Baling Pavilion.
Soon after, the Xiongnu invaded and killed the governor of Liaoxi and defeated General Han.
Later, General Han was transferred to Youbeiping and died.
So the emperor recruited and appointed Li Guang as the right governor of Beiping.
Li Guang then asked to send Lieutenant Ba Ling to go with him and kill him when he arrived in the army. Then he wrote a letter to apologize.
The emperor replied: Generals are the backbone of the country's defense.
The Art of War in "Sima Fa" says: There is no need to salute when boarding a chariot, and there is no need to wear mourning clothes when encountering a funeral. Reorganize and appease the army to conquer rebellion; unify the will of the three armies and stimulate the combat effectiveness of the soldiers. Therefore, showing anger can shock thousands of miles, and showing majesty can surrender. All things; therefore, the prestige is applied to the minority areas, and the power of the gods frightens the neighboring countries. He uses his anger to eradicate the harm and makes them give up cruelty and massacre. This is exactly what I want the general to do; if he takes off his hat, barefoot and kowtows to apologize, it is not my will!
The general should lead his army to consolidate the army and stabilize the frontiers to welcome the battle in the golden autumn of Youbeiping.
When Li Guang was in the border county, the Huns gave him the title of "Han Fei General", and they avoided Li Guang and did not enter the border for several years.
Li Guang went out hunting and saw a stone in the grass. He thought it was a tiger and shot an arrow. The arrow penetrated the stone. When he got closer, he saw that it was a stone. Then I tried to ejaculate again, but I couldn't ejaculate anymore.
In the county where Li Guang was located, when he heard that there was a tiger, he often went to shoot it himself.
When he was stationed in Youbei, he shot a tiger once. The tiger jumped up and wounded Li Guang. Li Guang also shot the tiger to death.
Lang Zhongling Shi Jian passed away, so the emperor recruited Li Guang to replace Shi Jian as Lang Zhongling.
In the sixth year of Yuanshuo, Li Guang was transferred to the rank of general and followed the general's army to attack the Huns from Dingxiang County.
Many of the generals were awarded the title of Marquis for their meritorious service for killing and capturing the enemy, but Li Guang's troops had no merit.
Three years later, Li Guang, as Lang Zhongling, led four thousand cavalry from Youbeiping. Bowang Hou Zhang Qian led 10,000 cavalry and went with Li Guang in two directions.
After walking for several hundred miles, King Zuoxian of the Xiongnu led 40,000 cavalry to surround Li Guang. Li Guang's soldiers were frightened, so Li Guang sent his son Li Gan to attack the enemy with a fast horse.
Li Gan galloped away with dozens of cavalry alone, passed through the encirclement of the Huns' cavalry, picked out the enemy's left and right wings, and returned, reporting to Li Guang: "The Huns are easy to deal with."
The soldiers finally settled down.
Li Guang formed a circular formation, facing the outside world. The Huns attacked them fiercely, raining down arrows.
More than half of the Han soldiers died, and the Han army was almost running out of arrows.
Li Guang ordered the soldiers to draw their bows and not to release arrows. Li Guang personally used the big yellow crossbow to shoot at the enemy's lieutenants, killing several of them, and the Huns gradually relaxed.
It happened to be dark, and the officers and soldiers were pale, but Li Guang looked as usual and commanded the army more energetically.
The soldiers in the army admired his courage.
The next day, they continued to fight hard, and Bowang Hou's army also arrived, and the Huns army finally relieved the siege.
The Han army was tired and could not pursue him.
At this time, Li Guang's army was almost wiped out and he had to withdraw his troops.
According to the laws of the Han Dynasty, Bowang Hou delayed the scheduled date and was sentenced to death. He paid for his sins and was reduced to a commoner.
Li Guang's military merit was equal to his criminal responsibility, so he was not rewarded.
At the beginning, Li Guang and his cousin Li Cai were both appointed as Langguan and served Emperor Xiaowen together.
summary:
Li Guang was captured by the Xiongnu in a later campaign but escaped by feigning death, stealing a horse, and shooting his pursuers. He was sentenced to death for his losses but redeemed himself with money, becoming a commoner. He later served as the Right Governor of Beiping, where the Xiongnu avoided him for years. During a hunt, he famously shot an arrow into a stone, mistaking it for a tiger. Despite his reputation, Li Guang never received a marquisate, a fact he lamented to Wang Shuo, who attributed it to Li Guang's past deception and killing of surrendered Qiang rebels.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
广辞曰： 臣部为前将军，今大将军乃徙臣出东道，且臣结发而与匈奴战，乃令一得当单于，臣愿居前，先死单于。
大将军阴受上指，以为李广数奇，毋令当单于，恐不得所欲。
是时，公孙敖新失侯，为中将军，大将军亦欲使敖与俱当单于，故徙广。
广知之，固辞。
大将军弗听，令长史封书与广之莫府，曰： 急诣部，如书。
广不谢大将军而起行，意象愠怒而就部，引兵与右将军食其合军出东道。
惑失道，后大将军。
大将军与单于接战，单于遁走，弗能得而还。
南绝幕，乃遇两将军。
广已见大将军，还入军。
大将军使长史持糒醪遗广，因问广、食其失道状，曰： 青欲上书报天子失军曲折。
广未对。
大将军长史急责广之莫府上簿。
广曰： 诸校尉亡罪，乃我自失道。吾今自上簿。
至莫府，谓其麾下曰： 广结发与匈奴大小七十余战，今幸从大将军出接单于兵，而大将军徙广部行回远，又迷失道，岂非天哉！
且广年六十余，终不能复对刀笔之吏矣！
遂引刀自刭。
百姓闻之，知与不知，老壮皆为垂泣。
而右将军独下吏，当死，赎为遮人。
广三子，曰当户、椒、敢，皆为郎。
上与韩嫣戏，嫣少不逊，当户击嫣，嫣走，于是上以为能。
当户蚤死，乃拜椒为代郡太守，皆先广死。
广死军中时，敢从票骑将军。
广死明年，李蔡以丞相坐诏赐冢地阳陵当得二十亩，蔡盗取三顷，颇卖得四十余万，又盗取神道外壖地一亩葬其中，当下狱，自杀。
translation: 
Li Guang personally requested: "I am a former general of the army, but now the general has asked me to send troops from the east route. Besides, I have been fighting against the Xiongnu since I was young. Today is the first time I have to fight against the Shanyu. I am willing to be the vanguard and fight the Shanyu to the death first."
General Wei Qing was secretly instructed by the emperor, thinking that Li Guang was old and had suffered many embarrassments, so he should not be allowed to confront Shanyu head-on, as he might not be able to realize his wish.
At this time, Gongsun Ao had recently lost a marquis and was serving as lieutenant general. The general also wanted Gongsun Ao to fight against Shanyu with him, so he transferred former general Li Guang.
Li Guang knew this situation at the time and resolutely refused to be transferred to the general.
The general refused to listen and ordered the chief historian to send a document to Li Guang's shogunate, saying: Go to the military headquarters where you are and do as the document says.
Li Guang set out without saying goodbye to the general. He went to the military headquarters in anger, led his soldiers and the right general to the place where they joined forces, and set off from the east road.
He lost his way and fell behind the general.
The general fought with Shanyu, but Shanyu fled and returned without any victory.
The army crossed the desert southward before meeting the former general and the right general.
After Li Guang met with the general, he returned to his army.
The general sent Chang Shi to bring wine and food to Li Guang, and asked Li Guang and Zhao Shiqi how they had lost their way, and said: "Wei Qing wants to write a letter to report the twists and turns in the emperor's army."
Li Guang didn't answer.
General Shi ordered Li Guang's shogunate staff to write a report and go to the hearing.
Li Guang said: "The captains are not guilty. It was me who lost my way. Now I will give a confession in person and wait for interrogation."
Returning to his shogunate, Li Guang said to his subordinates: I have experienced more than seventy battles with the Xiongnu since I was young. This time I had the honor to follow the general to fight against Shanyu's direct troops. However, the general sent my troops to take a circuitous and distant road, and they lost their way again. Isn't it God's will?
Besides, I am over sixty years old, and after all, I can no longer deal with the insults of interrogators.
Then he took out his knife and killed himself.
When the people heard this, whether they knew him or not, whether they were old or young, they all shed tears for him.
The right general Zhao Shiqi was sent to the judge alone and sentenced to death. He paid for his sins and was reduced to a civilian.
Li Guang had three sons, named Li Danghu, Li Jiao, and Li Gan, all of whom served as Lang Guan.
One time the emperor was playing with Han Yan, and Han Yan was a little rude. Li Danghu hit Han Yan, and Han Yan ran away, so the emperor thought Li Danghu was brave.
Li Danghu died early, and the emperor appointed Li Jiao as the prefect of Daijun, both of whom died before Li Guang.
When Li Guang died in the army, Li Gan was following the hussar general.
In the second year after Li Guang's death, Li Cai became the prime minister. He should be punished by the judge for occupying the open space of Emperor Xiaojing's Yangling Mausoleum. The open space given to him at that time was only 20 acres, and Li Cai occupied three hectares. After selling the land, he received more than 400,000 yuan. He also occupied an acre of land outside the Shinto as a cemetery. He was sentenced to prison, so Li Cai also committed suicide.
summary:
In his final campaign, Li Guang served as a former general under Wei Qing. Ordered to take a circuitous eastern route, he lost his way and failed to join the main force. After Wei Qing's interrogation, Li Guang, feeling humiliated and over sixty, committed suicide. His death caused widespread mourning. His son Li Gan later wounded Wei Qing in revenge and was killed by Huo Qubing, who claimed it was a deer attack. Li Guang's grandson Li Ling led a campaign against the Xiongnu with 5,000 infantry, fighting bravely but ultimately surrendering after running out of arrows and reinforcements. The emperor, misled by reports that Li Ling was training the Xiongnu, executed his family. Li Ling remained with the Xiongnu, marrying a Chanyu's daughter and dying there years later.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
武曰： 事如此，此必及我。
见犯乃死，重负国。
欲自杀，胜、惠共止之。
虞常果引张胜。
单于怒，召诸贵人议，欲杀汉使者。
左伊秩訾曰： 即谋单于，何以复加？
宜皆降之。
单于使卫律召武受辞，武谓惠等： 屈节辱命，虽生，何面目以归汉！
引佩刀自刺。
卫律惊，自抱持武，驰召。
凿地为坎，置煴火，覆武其上，蹈其背以出血。
武气绝半日，复息。
惠等哭，舆归营。
单于壮其节，朝夕遣人候问武，而收系张胜。
武益愈，单于使使晓武。会论虞常，欲因此时降武。
剑斩虞常已，律曰： 汉使张胜谋杀单于近臣，当死，单于募降者赦罪。
举剑欲击之，胜请降。
律谓武曰： 副有罪，当相坐。
武曰： 本无谋，又非亲属，何谓相坐？
复举剑拟之，武不动。
律曰： 苏君，律前负汉归匈奴，幸蒙大恩，赐号称王，拥众数万，马畜弥山，富贵如此。
苏君今日降，明日复然。
空以身膏草野，谁复知之！
武不应。
律曰： 君因我降，与君为兄弟，今不听吾计，后虽欲复见我，尚可得乎？
武骂律曰： 女为人臣子，不顾恩义，畔主背亲，为降虏于蛮夷，何以女为见？
且单于信女，使决人死生，不平心持正，反欲斗两主，观祸败。
南越杀汉使者，屠为九郡；宛王杀汉使者，头县北阙；朝鲜杀汉使者，即时诛灭。
独匈奴未耳。
若知我不降明，欲令两国相攻，匈奴之祸从我始矣。
律知武终不可胁，白单于。
单于愈益欲降之，乃幽武置大窖中，绝不饮食。
天雨雪，武卧啮雪与旃毛并咽之，数日不死。
匈奴以为神，乃徙武北海上无人处，使牧羝，羝乳乃得归。别其官属常惠等，各置他所。
武既至海上，廪食不至，掘野鼠去草实而食之。
杖汉节牧羊，卧起操持，节旄尽落。
积五、六年，单于弟於靬王弋射海上。武能网纺缴，檠弓弩，於靬王爱之，给其衣食。
三岁余，王病，赐武马畜、服匿、穹庐。
王死后，人众徙去。
其冬，丁令盗武牛羊，武复穷厄。
初，武与李陵俱为侍中，武使匈奴明年，陵降，不敢求武。
久之，单于使陵至海上，为武置酒设乐，因谓武曰： 单于闻陵与子卿素厚，故使陵来说足下，虚心欲相待。
translation: 
Su Wu said: Now that things have developed to this point, I will definitely be involved.
To die after being insulted would be a greater disservice to the country.
So he wanted to commit suicide, but Zhang Sheng and Chang Hui persuaded him to stop him.
As expected, Yu Chang confessed to Zhang Sheng.
Chanyu was furious and summoned the Xiongnu nobles to discuss killing the Han envoys.
Zuo Yi Zhizi said: If someone murders Shanyu, how should the punishment be increased?
It's better to let them all surrender.
Chan Yu then sent Wei Lu to summon Su Wu for interrogation. Su Wu said to Chang Hui and others: If you humiliate your integrity and the country's mission, even if you don't die, how can you have the face to return to the court?
He pulled out his sword and committed suicide.
Wei Lu was so shocked that he hugged Fu Wu personally and sent people to ride horses to find the doctor.
The doctor dug a hole in the ground, put in the fire, made Su Wu lie down on the fire pit, and tapped his back with his hand to make the blood flow out from the wound.
Su Wu fainted and took a long time to wake up.
Chang Hui and others carried him back to the camp in tears.
Chanyu admired his integrity very much, and sent people to inquire about his condition morning and night, and arrested Zhang Sheng.
Su Wu's injuries gradually improved. Shan Yu sent envoys to persuade him to surrender, and jointly tried Yu Chang, hoping to take this opportunity to force Su Wu to surrender.
After killing Yu Chang with a sword, Wei Lu said: Zhang Sheng, the envoy of the Han Dynasty, murdered the ministers close to Shanyu, and his crime should be executed. However, Shanyu recruited surrendered people and pardoned his crime.
He raised his sword to kill Zhang Sheng, but Zhang Sheng asked for surrender.
Wei Lu then said to Su Wu: The deputy envoy is guilty and you should sit with him.
Su Wu said: I didn't participate in the conspiracy, and I'm not his relative. Why should I join him?
Wei Lu gestured with his sword to stab Su Wu, but Su Wu did not waver.
Wei Lu said: Mr. Su, I, Wei Lu, betrayed the Han Dynasty and surrendered to the Xiongnu. Fortunately, thanks to the kindness of Shan Zi, I was given the title of king, so that I have tens of thousands of followers, horses and livestock all over the mountain, and I am so rich.
If you surrender today, you will do the same tomorrow.
Otherwise, you will be killed and buried in the wilderness in vain. Who knows that you died for the Han Dynasty?
Su Wu ignored it.
Wei Lu said again: If you surrender with the help of me, I will become your brother. If you don't listen to me today, will you still want to see me again in the future?
Su Wu scolded Wei Lu and said: As a subject of the Han Dynasty, you betrayed the emperor and your relatives and surrendered to the barbarians, regardless of your kindness, justice and shame. Why should I see you?
Moreover, Shanyu trusted you and asked you to judge people's life and death, but you did not act out of public interest and uphold justice. Instead, you made the two leaders fight each other and watched the chaos caused by the melee between the two sides.
South Vietnam killed the Han envoys and was razed into nine counties of the Han Dynasty; King Dayuan killed the Han envoys, and his head was hung in the north palace of the Han Palace; North Korea killed the Han envoys and was immediately punished by having his head reduced.
Only the Huns did not have this happen.
You know that I will not surrender. If you want the two countries to attack each other, the Xiongnu's defeat will begin with killing me.
Wei Lu knew that he could not threaten Su Wu to surrender in the end, so he reported the situation to Shan Yu.
The Chanyu wanted Su Wu to surrender more and more, so he imprisoned him in Dajiaoxiang and cut off food and drink from him.
It snowed heavily, so Su Wu lay down on the ground and ate snow balls and felt wool, so that many of them did not starve to death.
The Xiongnu thought he was a man of God, so they moved him to an uninhabited place in the North Sea and let him herd rams. He was not allowed to come back until the rams gave birth to babies. They separated him from his subordinates Chang Hui and others and placed him in different places.
After Su Wu was exiled to Beihai, the Huns did not provide him with food, so he had to dig grass seeds stored by wild rats to satisfy his hunger.
He used Han Chao Jie to shepherd sheep and carried Han Chao Jie with him all the time, so that the shackles on the Han Chao Jie fell off.
Five or six years later, Shan Yu's younger brother, King Yu Xuan, went to the sea to hunt. Because Su Wu knew how to make hunting nets and arrows, and calibrate bows and crossbows, King Yu Xuan liked him very much and gave him clothes and food.
More than three years later, King Yu Xuan fell ill, so he presented Su Wu with livestock, wine and cheese utensils, and felt tents.
After King Yu Xuan died, his followers also left.
That winter, Ding Ren stole Su Wu's cattle and sheep, and Su Wu was once again in trouble.
At first, Su Wu and Li Ling were serving as ministers in the Han Dynasty. In the second year after Su Wu went to the Huns as an envoy, Li Ling surrendered to the Huns and did not dare to see Su Wu.
After a long time, the Chanyu sent Li Ling to the sea to hold a banquet for Su Wu, with music and dancing. He took the opportunity to say to Su Wu: The Chanyu heard that I have a close relationship with you, so he sent me to persuade you. The Chanyu will treat you sincerely.
summary:
Su Wu was sent as an envoy to the Xiongnu in 100 BCE. When a conspiracy involving his deputy Zhang Sheng was exposed, Su Wu attempted suicide to avoid disgrace. He survived and was imprisoned, surviving on snow and felt. Exiled to the North Sea to herd rams, he steadfastly refused to surrender, even when his former friend Li Ling tried to persuade him. After nineteen years, the Han Dynasty learned he was alive through a clever ruse involving a wild goose with a message. Su Wu returned to Chang'an, honored for his loyalty, though his son was later executed for conspiracy. He died in his eighties, and his portrait was later placed in the Qilin Pavilion among eleven notable ministers of Emperor Xuan's reign. The text praises Li Guang's integrity and Su Wu's unwavering loyalty, noting the tragic fate of the Li family and the exemplary virtue of Su Wu.

