Chunk 0: 
original: 
孔子曰 受业身通者七十有七人 ，皆异能之士也。
德行：颜渊，闵子骞，冉伯牛，仲弓。
政事：冉有，季路。
言语：宰我，子贡。
文学：子游，子夏。
师也辟，参也鲁，柴也愚，由也喭，回也屡空。
赐不受命而货殖焉，亿则屡中。
孔子之所严事：於周则老子；於卫，蘧伯玉；於齐，晏平仲；於楚，老莱子；於郑，子产；於鲁，孟公绰。
数称臧文仲、柳下惠、铜鞮伯华、介山子然，孔子皆後之，不并世。
颜回者，鲁人也，字子渊。
少孔子三十岁。
颜渊问仁，孔子曰： 克己复礼，天下归仁焉。
孔子曰： 贤哉回也！
一箪食，一瓢饮，在陋巷，人不堪其忧，回也不改其乐。
回也如愚；退而省其私，亦足以发，回也不愚。
translation: 
Confucius said: There are seventy-seven disciples who have studied with me and become proficient in the six arts. They are all people with extraordinary talents.
Outstanding in virtue: Yan Yuan, Min Ziqian, Ran Boniu, Zhong Gong.
Those who are good at handling political affairs: Ran You, Ji Lu.
In terms of language: Zaiwo, Zigong.
Articles on erudition: Ziyou, Zixia.
Master Zhuan Sun was extreme, Zeng Shen was slow, Gao Chai was stupid, Zhong You was rude, and Yan Hui was often poor and had nothing.
Duanmuci did not accept the mercy of fate and went into business, but his predictions on the market were often accurate.
The people whom Confucius respected: in the Zhou Dynasty, it was Laozi; in the Wei Kingdom, it was Zang Boyu; in the Qi Kingdom, it was Yan Zhongping; in the Chu Kingdom, it was Laolaizi; in the Zheng Kingdom, it was Zichan; in the Lu Kingdom, it was Meng Gongchuo.
He also often praised Zang Wenzhong, Liu Xiahui, Tongtan Bohua, and Jieshan Ziran. Confucius was born later than them and was not of the same era.
Yan Hui was from the state of Lu, his courtesy name was Ziyuan.
Thirty years younger than Confucius.
Yan Yuan asked what benevolence was, and Confucius said: Restrain yourself and make your words and deeds conform to etiquette, and people in the world will praise you as a virtuous person.
Confucius said: Yan Hui! What a virtuous person!
He ate a small bamboo basket of rice, drank a ladle of water, and lived in a simple alley. Most people couldn't bear this kind of hardship, but Yan Hui didn't change his joy.
When he was listening to my teachings, Yan Hui seemed like a stupid person. After class, I examined his private conversations and showed that he was able to express himself deliberately. Yan Hui was really not stupid.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
用之则行，舍之则藏，唯我与尔有是夫！
回年二十九，发尽白，蚤死。
孔子哭之恸，曰： 自吾有回，门人益亲。
鲁哀公问： 弟子孰为好学？
孔子对曰： 有颜回者好学，不迁怒，不贰过。
不幸短命死矣，今也则亡。
闵损字子骞。少孔子十五岁。
孔子曰： 孝哉闵子骞！
人不间於其父母昆弟之言。
不仕大夫，不食汙君之禄。 如有复我者，必在汶上矣。
冉耕字伯牛。
孔子以为有德行。
伯牛有恶疾，孔子往问之，自牖执其手，曰： 命也夫！
斯人也而有斯疾，命也夫！ 冉雍字仲弓。
仲弓问政，孔子曰： 出门如见大宾，使民如承大祭。
在邦无怨，在家无怨。
translation: 
When you are employed, you will save the world; when you are not employed, you will hide your secrets. Only you and I have such an attitude towards life!
Yan Hui was only twenty-nine years old, his hair turned completely white, and he died prematurely.
Confucius cried very sadly and said: Since I had Yan Hui, the students have become closer and closer to me.
Duke Ai of Lu asked: Who among the students is the best at learning?
Confucius replied: There is a man named Yan Hui who had better learn from others and never transfer his anger to others and never make the same mistake again.
Unfortunately, life was short, and after death, there are no such people anymore.
Min Sun, also known as Ziqian, was fifteen years younger than Confucius.
Confucius said: Min Ziqian is too filial!
He serves his parents and obeys his brothers. Others praise him without any criticism.
He does not want to be a retainer of a high official, and he does not want to receive a salary from an emperor. So he said: If someone calls me again, I will definitely flee to the north of Wenshui River.
Ran Geng, courtesy name Boniu.
Confucius thought he was virtuous.
Boniu was suffering from an incurable disease. Confucius went to greet him, shook his hand from the window, and said: This is life!
Such a good person got such a disease, what a fate! Ran Yong, courtesy name Zhong Gong.
Zhong Gong asked how to handle political affairs. Confucius said: When going out to do things, be as courteous and courteous as receiving distinguished guests, and use the people as piously and cautiously as hosting a grand ceremony.
In this way, no one will resent you if you serve in the feudal state of a prince, and no one will resent you if you serve in the home of a high official.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
孔子以仲弓为有德行，曰： 雍也可使南面。
仲弓父，贱人。
孔子曰： 犁牛之子骍且角，虽欲勿用，山川其舍诸？
冉求字子有，少孔子二十九岁。
为季氏宰。
季康子问孔子曰： 冉求仁乎？
曰： 千室之邑，百乘之家，求也可使治其赋。
仁则吾不知也。
复问： 子路仁乎？
孔子对曰： 如求。
求问曰： 闻斯行诸？
子曰： 行之。
子路问： 闻斯行诸？
子曰： 有父兄在，如之何其闻斯行之！
子华怪之， 敢问问同而答异？
孔子曰： 求也退，故进之。
由也兼人，故退之。
仲由字子路，卞人也。
少孔子九岁。
translation: 
Confucius thought that Zhong Gong had achieved great achievements in virtue and said: Ran Yong, you can make him a high official like a senior official.
Zhong Gong's father was a man of humble status.
Confucius used an analogy and said: A mottled cow gives birth to a red calf with round and straight horns. Even if you don't want to use it as a sacrifice, will the gods of the mountains and rivers abandon it?
Ran Qiu, also known as Zi You, was twenty-nine years younger than Confucius.
As the head of Li family's retainers.
Ji Kangzi asked Confucius: Is Ran Qiu virtuous?
Confucius replied: There is a city with a thousand households and a fief with a hundred chariots. Ran Qiu can manage the military and political affairs there well.
As for whether he is benevolent or not, I don't know.
Ji Kangzi asked again: Is Zilu virtuous?
Confucius replied: Just like Ran Qiu.
Ran Qiu asked Confucius: Do you act immediately when you hear what you should do?
Confucius replied: Act immediately.
Zilu asked Confucius: When you hear something you should do, should you act immediately?
Confucius replied: How can you act immediately when you hear something when your father and brothers are here?
Zihua felt that this was strange and said in confusion: "I boldly ask, why do you ask the same question but get different answers?"
Confucius replied: Ran Qiu was timid and worried, so I encouraged him.
Zhong Yu has the courage of two people to do things, so I have to restrain him.
Zhong Yuan, named Zi Lu, was from Bian.
Nine years younger than Confucius.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
子路性鄙，好勇力，志伉直，冠雄鸡，佩豭豚，陵暴孔子。
孔子设礼稍诱子路，子路後儒服委质，因门人请为弟子。
子路问政，孔子曰： 先之，劳之。
请益。
曰： 无倦。
子路问： 君子尚勇乎？
孔子曰： 义之为上。
君子好勇而无义则乱，小人好勇而无义则盗。
子路有闻，未之能行，唯恐有闻。
孔子曰： 片言可以折狱者，其由也与！
由也好勇过我，无所取材。
若由也，不得其死然。
衣敝缊袍与衣狐貉者立而不耻者，其由也与！
由也升堂矣，未入於室也。
季康子问： 仲由仁乎？
孔子曰： 千乘之国可使治其赋，不知其仁。
子路喜从游，遇长沮、桀溺、荷丈人。
子路为季氏宰，季孙问曰： 子路可谓大臣与？
孔子曰： 可谓具臣矣。
子路为蒲大夫，辞孔子。
孔子曰： 蒲多壮士，又难治。
然吾语汝：恭以敬，可以执勇；宽以正，可以比众；恭正以静，可以报上。
translation: 
Zilu had a rough temperament, liked to show off his strength, had a strong ambition, and was straightforward. He wore a rooster-style hat and a sword decorated with boar skin. He once bullied Confucius.
Confucius slowly induced him with ritual music. Later, Zilu dressed in Confucian clothes and brought a gift for apprenticeship. Through the recommendation of Confucius's students, Zilu asked to be Confucius's student.
Zilu asked how to deal with political affairs. Confucius said: You must first set an example for the people, and then you can make the people work hard.
Zilu asked for further explanation.
Confucius said: Be persistent.
Zilu asked: Does a gentleman value bravery?
Confucius said: What a gentleman values ​​most is righteousness.
A gentleman who has no choice but to be brave but does not uphold righteousness will become rebellious and rebellious. A villain who has no choice but to be brave but not uphold righteousness will become a robber.
Zi Lu wanted to hear some truth, but he didn't act immediately, for fear of hearing another truth.
Confucius said: The only person who can decide a case by just listening to one side's words is Zhong You!
Zhong Yu advocates bravery more than I can use it, so it does not apply.
People with a temperament like Zhongyou's will not end well.
I'm afraid Zhong You is the only one who doesn't feel ashamed to stand next to people wearing fur coats while wearing a shabby robe made of tangled linen.
Zhong Yuan's knowledge seems to have reached the main hall, but he has not yet been able to enter the inner room.
Ji Kangzi asked: Is Zhong You virtuous?
Confucius replied: A country with a thousand chariots can let him manage military and political affairs. As for whether he has benevolence, I don't know.
Zilu liked to travel with Confucius and met hermits such as Changju, Jieyou, and an old man carrying farm tools.
Zilu became Ji's retainer. Ji Sun asked Confucius: Can Zilu be said to be a retainer?
Confucius replied: It can be said that he is a minister who is ready to fill his position.
Zilu was appointed as the official of Pucheng and bid farewell to Confucius.
Confucius said: There are many brave warriors in Pu Yi, and it is difficult to govern them.
However, I tell you: if you are respectful and humble, you can control brave people; if you are generous and honest, you can bring everyone close to you; if you are respectful and honest and the society is quiet, you can use it to serve your superiors.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
初，卫灵公有宠姬曰南子。
灵公太子蒉聩得过南子，惧诛出奔。
及灵公卒而夫人欲立公子郢。
郢不肯，曰： 亡人太子之子辄在。
於是卫立辄为君，是为出公。
出公立十二年，其父蒉聩居外，不得入。
子路为卫大夫孔悝之邑宰。
蒉聩乃与孔悝作乱，谋入孔悝家，遂与其徒袭攻出公。
出公奔鲁，而蒉聩入立，是为庄公。
方孔悝作乱，子路在外，闻之而驰往。
遇子羔出卫城门，谓子路曰： 出公去矣，而门已闭，子可还矣，毋空受其祸。
子路曰： 食其食者不避其难。
子羔卒去。
有使者入城，城门开，子路随而入。
造蒉聩，蒉聩与孔悝登台。
子路曰： 君焉用孔悝？
请得而杀之。
蒉聩弗听。
於是子路欲燔台，蒉聩惧，乃下石乞、壶黡攻子路，击断子路之缨。
translation: 
At first, Duke Linggong of Wei had a favorite concubine named Nanzi.
Linggong's crown prince had offended her and fled abroad for fear of being murdered.
When Duke Ling passed away, his wife Nanzi wanted Prince Ying to inherit the throne.
Prince Ying refused to accept it and said: Although the prince has fled, his son is still there.
So Wei Guo established Zou as the king, which was Wei Chugong.
Twelve years after Chugong succeeded to the throne, his father had been staying abroad and could not come back.
At this time, Zilu served as the governor of the fiefdom of Kong Kui, a doctor of the Wei Kingdom.
Kuai and Kong Kui rebelled together and tried to sneak people into Kong Kui's house, so he and his followers attacked Wei Chugong.
After he fled to the state of Lu, he entered the palace and succeeded to the throne. He then defended Duke Zhuang.
When Kong Kui was making trouble, Zilu had something to do, so he rushed back when he heard the news.
Zigao came out of the city gate of Weiguo and happened to meet him. He said to Zilu: "Wei has escaped on duty. The city gate has been closed. You can go back. Don't suffer disaster for him."
Zilu said: If you eat other people's food, you cannot avoid other people's disasters.
Zigao finally left.
Just as an envoy was about to enter the city, the city gate opened and Zilu followed him in.
Found Jiang Wei, Jiang Wei and Kong Kui were both on the stage.
Zilu said: Why did the king appoint Kong Kui?
Please let me catch him and kill him.
He did not listen to his advice.
So Zilu wanted to set fire to the platform, but Kuai was afraid, so he asked Shiqi and Huxu to go down to the platform to attack Zilu, and cut off Zilu's hatband.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
子路曰： 君子死而冠不免。
遂结缨而死。
孔子闻卫乱，曰： 嗟乎，由死矣！
已而果死。
故孔子曰： 自吾得由，恶言不闻於耳。
是时子贡为鲁使於齐。
宰予字子我。
利口辩辞。
既受业，问： 三年之丧不已久乎？
君子三年不为礼，礼必坏；三年不为乐，乐必崩。
旧穀既没，新穀既升，钻燧改火，期可已矣。
子曰： 於汝安乎？
曰： 安。
汝安则为之。
君子居丧，食旨不甘，闻乐不乐，故弗为也。
宰我出，子曰： 予之不仁也！
子生三年然後免於父母之怀。
夫三年之丧，天下之通义也。
宰予昼寝。
子曰： 朽木不可雕也，粪土之墙不可圬也。
translation: 
Zilu said: A gentleman can die, but his hat cannot fall off.
After saying that, he tied his hat and died.
When Confucius heard the news of the riot in Weiguo, he said: Alas, Zhong Yu is dead!
Soon, news of his death came.
So Confucius said: Ever since I had my son Zhongyou, I can no longer hear any evil words.
At this time, Zigong was on an envoy to Qi State on behalf of Lu State.
Jaeyu, named Ziwo.
He is articulate and good at rhetoric.
After becoming a disciple of Confucius, he asked: "When a person's parents die, isn't it too long to observe mourning for three years?"
If a gentleman does not practice etiquette for three years, the etiquette will be ruined; if he does not play music for three years, the music will be ruined.
In one year, the old millet is eaten, the new millet matures, and the wood for drilling and making fire is replaced. It is enough to mourn for one year.
Confucius said: If you only stay in mourning for one year, how will your heart feel?
Zaiwo replied: Peace of mind.
Confucius said: Since you feel at ease, just do it.
When a gentleman observes filial piety, even if he eats delicious food, he will not feel the sweetness, and he will not feel happy when listening to beautiful music. That is why a gentleman does not do this.
Zaiwo withdrew, and Confucius said: Zaiyu is not a benevolent gentleman!
It takes three years after a child is born to leave his mother's arms.
Observing filial piety for parents for three years is a common etiquette observed by the whole world.
Jaeyu slept during the day.
Confucius said: Rotten wood cannot be carved with tools, and rotten walls cannot be painted.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
宰我问五帝之德，子曰： 予非其人也。
宰我为临菑大夫，与田常作乱，以夷其族，孔子耻之。
端沐赐，卫人，字子贡。
少孔子三十一岁。
子贡利口巧辞，孔子常黜其辩。
问曰： 汝与回也孰愈？
对曰： 赐也何敢望回！
回也闻一以知十，赐也闻一以知二。
子贡既已受业，问曰： 赐何人也？ 孔子曰： 汝器也。
曰： 何器也？
曰： 瑚琏也。
陈子禽问子贡曰： 仲尼焉学？
子贡曰： 文武之道未坠於地，在人，贤者识其大者，不贤者识其小者，莫不有文武之道。
夫子焉不学，而亦何常师之有！
又问曰： 孔子適是国必闻其政。
求之与？抑与之与？
子贡曰： 夫子温良恭俭让以得之。
夫子之求之也，其诸异乎人之求之也。
子贡问曰： 富而无骄，贫而无谄，何如？
孔子曰： 可也；不如贫而乐道，富而好礼。
translation: 
Zaiwo asked about the virtues of the five emperors. Confucius replied: You are not the person to ask such a question.
I was appointed as the official of Qi State in Lin'an, and together with Tian Chang, I conspired to cause rebellion, so I was exterminated. Confucius was ashamed of him.
Duanmu Ci was a native of Wei State, his courtesy name was Zigong.
Thirty-one years younger than Confucius.
Zigong was articulate and skillful in rhetoric, and Confucius often refuted his words.
Confucius asked Zigong: Who is better between you and Yan Hui?
Zigong replied: How dare I hope to compare with Yan Hui?
Yan Hui heard one truth and could deduce ten truths. I heard one truth and could only deduce two truths.
After Zigong studied under Confucius, he asked: What kind of person am I? Confucius said: You are like a useful tool.
Zigong asked: What kind of utensils are they?
Confucius said: Hu Lian in the ancestral temple.
Chen Ziqin asked Zigong: Where did Zhongni get such extensive knowledge?
Zigong said: The thoughts of King Wen and King Wu on governing the country have not been completely lost. They are still spread among the people. The wise people remember the important parts, while the unworthy people only remember the details. The thoughts of King Wen and King Wu exist everywhere.
If you can't learn, why do you need a regular teacher?
Chen Ziqin asked again: Every time Confucius visited a country, he must have learned about the political affairs of that country.
Did he ask others to tell him, or did they tell him on their own initiative?
Zigong said: Sir, he obtained it through his virtues of gentleness, kindness, respect, frugality and humility.
Your husband's way of seeking may be different from other people's ways of seeking.
Zigong asked Confucius: "What about a person who is rich but not arrogant, who is poor but not flattering?"
Confucius said: That's all right; however, it would be better to be willing to abide by the ways of the sages even if you are poor, and to be courteous and courteous even if you are rich.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
田常欲作乱於齐，惮高、国、鲍、晏，故移其兵欲以伐鲁。
孔子闻之，谓门弟子曰： 夫鲁，坟墓所处，父母之国，国危如此，二三子何为莫出？
子路请出，孔子止之。
子张、子石请行，孔子弗许。
子贡请行，孔子许之。
遂行，至齐，说田常曰： 君之伐鲁过矣。
夫鲁，难伐之国，其城薄以卑，其地狭以泄，其君愚而不仁，大臣伪而无用，其士民又恶甲兵之事，此不可与战。
君不如伐吴。
夫吴，城高以厚，地广以深，甲坚以新，士选以饱，重器精兵尽在其中，又使明大夫守之，此易伐也。
田常忿然作色曰： 子之所难，人之所易；子之所易，人之所难：而以教常，何也？
子贡曰： 臣闻之，忧在内者攻彊，忧在外者攻弱。
今君忧在内。
吾闻君三封而三不成者，大臣有不听者也。
translation: 
Tian Chang wanted to rebel in Qi, but he was afraid of the power of Gao Zhaozi, Guo Huizi, Bao Mu, and Yan Yu, so he wanted to divert their troops to attack Lu.
When Confucius heard about this, he said to his disciples: The State of Lu is where the tombs of our ancestors are located, and it is the country where we were born. Our motherland is in such danger, why don't you come forward?
Zilu asked to go, but Confucius stopped him.
Zizhang and Zishi asked to rescue Lu, but Confucius refused.
Zigong asked to rescue Lu, and Confucius agreed.
Zigong then set out and came to the state of Qi. He persuaded Tian Chang and said: You are wrong to attack the state of Lu.
Lu is a difficult country to attack. Its walls are thin and low, its moat is narrow and shallow, its monarch is ignorant and unkind, its ministers are hypocritical and useless, and its soldiers and people hate fighting. Such a country cannot be fought against.
You might as well attack Wu.
The country of Wu has tall and thick city walls, wide and deep moats, strong and brand-new armor, well-selected and energetic soldiers, valuable talents and elite troops, and wise ministers guarding it. Such a country is easy to attack.
Tian Chang suddenly became angry, his face changed and he said: What you think is difficult, others think is easy; what you think is easy, others think is difficult. What is your intention in using these words to teach me?
Zigong said: I have heard that those who are worried at home should attack strong countries; those who are worried about foreign countries should attack weak countries.
Today, your worries are at home.
I heard that you have been awarded titles many times but failed to do so because some of the ministers in the DPRK were against you.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
今君破鲁以广齐，战胜以骄主，破国以尊臣，而君之功不与焉，则交日疏於主。
是君上骄主心，下恣群臣，求以成大事，难矣。
夫上骄则恣，臣骄则争，是君上与主有卻，下与大臣交争也。
如此，则君之立於齐危矣。
故曰不如伐吴。
伐吴不胜，民人外死，大臣内空，是君上无彊臣之敌，下无民人之过，孤主制齐者唯君也。 田常曰： 善。
虽然，吾兵业已加鲁矣，去而之吴，大臣疑我，柰何？
子贡曰： 君按兵无伐，臣请往使吴王，令之救鲁而伐齐，君因以兵迎之。
田常许之，使子贡南见吴王。
说曰： 臣闻之，王者不绝世，霸者无彊敌，千钧之重加铢两而移。
translation: 
Now, you want to capture the State of Lu to expand the territory of the State of Qi. If you win, your monarch will become more arrogant. If you occupy the land of the State of Lu, your ministers will be more noble, and your conquest and labor will not be included. In this way, the relationship between you and the monarch will become increasingly estranged day by day.
This is because you make the monarch arrogant and indulgent, and make the ministers uninhibited. It is too difficult to achieve great things because of this.
If the monarch is arrogant, he will have no scruples, and if the ministers are arrogant, they will fight for power. In this way, there will be an emotional rift between you and the monarch, and you and the ministers will compete with each other next time.
If this is the case, your situation in Qi will be dangerous.
So it is better to attack Wu State.
If the attack on Wu fails to win, and the people die abroad, and the ministers lead the troops to fight, and the court's power is empty, then there will be no strong ministers above to resist, and there will be no criticism from the people below, and you will be the only one who isolates the monarch and autocrats Qi. Tian Chang said: OK.
Even so, my army has already marched to the State of Lu, and now it is withdrawing from the State of Lu and marching to the State of Wu. What should I do if the ministers doubt me?
Zigong said: "Stand still and do not attack. Please let me go as your envoy to see the King of Wu and ask him to send troops to aid Lu and attack Qi. You can take the opportunity to send troops to meet it."
Tian Chang accepted Zigong's advice and sent him south to meet the King of Wu.
Zigong persuaded the King of Wu and said: I have heard that those who practice kingship cannot allow the vassal states to be exterminated, and those who practice tyranny cannot allow other powerful enemies to appear. On an object that weighs thousands of pounds, even the weight of one baht or one tael may cause displacement.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
今以万乘之齐而私千乘之鲁，与吴争彊，窃为王危之。
且夫救鲁，显名也；伐齐，大利也。
以抚泗上诸侯，诛暴齐以服彊晋，利莫大焉。
名存亡鲁，实困彊齐。智者不疑也。 吴王曰： 善。
虽然，吾尝与越战，栖之会稽。越王苦身养士，有报我心。
子待我伐越而听子。
子贡曰： 越之劲不过鲁，吴之彊不过齐，王置齐而伐越，则齐已平鲁矣。且王方以存亡继绝为名，夫伐小越而畏彊齐，非勇也。
夫勇者不避难，仁者不穷约，智者不失时，王者不绝世，以立其义。
今存越示诸侯以仁，救鲁伐齐，威加晋国，诸侯必相率而朝吴，霸业成矣。
且王必恶越，臣请东见越王，令出兵以从，此实空越，名从诸侯以伐也。
translation: 
Today, the state of Qi, which has ten thousand chariots, and the state of Lu, which has thousands of chariots, are competing with the state of Wu for supremacy. Privately, I feel danger for the king.
Besides, to rescue the Lu State is a matter of reputation; to attack the Qi State is a matter of great profit.
There is no greater profit than pacifying the princes of various countries north of Surabaya, attacking the violent Qi State, and subduing the powerful Jin State.
In name, the country of Lu was preserved in danger, but in fact it hindered the expansion of Qiang Qi. Smart people will not doubt this truth. King Wu said: OK.
Even so, I once fought against the State of Yue, and the King of Yue retreated to live in Kuaiji Mountain. The King of Yue worked hard on himself, treated his soldiers well, and was determined to take revenge on me.
You wait until I attack Yue and then do as you say.
Zigong said: The power of Yue is not greater than that of Lu, and the strength of Wu is not greater than that of Qi. If the king puts Qi aside and attacks Yue, then Qi has already pacified Lu. Moreover, in the name of restoring the ruined country and reviving the severed heir, the king attacks the weak Yue and fears the powerful Qi. This is not a sign of bravery.
A brave person does not shy away from difficulties, and a kind person does not let others get into trouble. A wise person will miss the opportunity, and a person who implements the royal way will not let a country become extinct. Use these to establish your morality.
Now, preserve the State of Yue to show your benevolence to the princes of other countries, assist the State of Lu to attack Qi, and exert the power of the State of Jin. The princes of all countries will surely come to Wu to pay homage, and the great cause of dominating the world will be successful.
The king is really afraid of the country of Yue, so I request to go east to meet with the king of Yue and ask him to send troops to follow you. This actually makes the country of Yue empty and nominally follows the princes to attack Qi.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
吴王大说，乃使子贡之越。
越王除道郊迎，身御至舍而问曰： 此蛮夷之国，大夫何以俨然辱而临之？
子贡曰： 今者吾说吴王以救鲁伐齐，其志欲之而畏越，曰 待我伐越乃可 。
如此，破越必矣。
且夫无报人之志而令人疑之，拙也；有报人之志，使人知之，殆也；事未发而先闻，危也。
三者举事之大患。
句践顿首再拜曰： 孤尝不料力，乃与吴战，困於会稽，痛入於骨髓，日夜焦脣乾舌，徒欲与吴王接踵而死，孤之原也。
遂问子贡。
子贡曰： 吴王为人猛暴，群臣不堪；国家敝以数战，士卒弗忍；百姓怨上，大臣内变；子胥以谏死，太宰嚭用事，顺君之过以安其私：是残国之治也。
translation: 
King Wu was very happy, so he sent Zigong to Yue.
The King of Yue cleared the road and went to the outskirts to greet Zigong. He personally drove his car to the residence where Zigong was staying and asked, "This is a remote and backward country. Why did the doctor humiliate his solemn status and come here?"
Zigong replied: Now I have persuaded King Wu to rescue Lu and attack Qi. He wanted to do this but was afraid of Yue and said, "Wait until I capture Yue."
Like this, it is inevitable to conquer the Yue Kingdom.
Besides, it would be too clumsy to make people suspicious of someone without the intention to retaliate; it would be unsafe to have people know about it if he has the intention to seek revenge; it would be too dangerous to let people know about it before the matter has started.
These three situations are the biggest disaster in getting things done.
After hearing this, Gou Jian kowtowed to the ground and bowed again and said: I once overestimated my capabilities and went to war with Wu. I was besieged in Kuaiji. I hated him so much that my lips were parched day and night. I only wanted to fight to the death with the King of Wu. This is my wish.
So he asked Zigong what to do.
Zigong said: The king of Wu was ferocious and cruel, and the ministers could not bear it; the country fought many wars, which made it exhausted and decayed, and the soldiers could not bear it; the people resented the king, and there were internal disturbances among the ministers; Wu Zixu was killed for his remonstrances, and the chief minister came to power, complied with the fault of the king, and used it to protect his own selfish interests. This is a political manifestation of harming the country.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
今王诚发士卒佐之徼其志，重宝以说其心，卑辞以尊其礼，其伐齐必也。
彼战不胜，王之福矣。
战胜，必以兵临晋，臣请北见晋君，令共攻之，弱吴必矣。
其锐兵尽於齐，重甲困於晋，而王制其敝，此灭吴必矣。
越王大说，许诺。
送子贡金百镒，剑一，良矛二。
子贡不受，遂行。
报吴王曰： 臣敬以大王之言告越王，越王大恐，曰： 孤不幸，少失先人，内不自量，抵罪於吴，军败身辱，栖于会稽，国为虚莽，赖大王之赐，使得奉俎豆而修祭祀，死不敢忘，何谋之敢虑！
後五日，越使大夫种顿首言於吴王曰： 东海役臣孤句践使者臣种，敢修下吏问於左右。
今窃闻大王将兴大义，诛彊救弱，困暴齐而抚周室，请悉起境内士卒三千人，孤请自被坚执锐，以先受矢石。
因越贱臣种奉先人藏器，甲二十领，鈇屈卢之矛，步光之剑，以贺军吏。
吴王大说，以告子贡曰： 越王欲身从寡人伐齐，可乎？
子贡曰： 不可。
translation: 
Now if the king can really send troops to assist the king of Wu, appeal to his will, use heavy gold and treasures to win his favor, and honor him with humble words to show respect for him, he will definitely attack Qi.
If that war cannot be won, it will be your great blessing.
If he wins, he will definitely lead his troops to approach Jin. Please let me go north to meet the king of Jin and let him attack it together. This will definitely weaken the power of Wu.
When all their elite troops were consumed in the Qi State, the heavy troops were restrained by the Jin State, and the king took advantage of its exhaustion to attack it, which would surely destroy the Wu State.
The King of Yue was very happy and agreed to act according to the plan.
He gave Zigong a hundred yi of gold, a precious sword, and two good spears.
Zigong didn't accept it and left.
Zigong reported back to the King of Wu and said: I solemnly told the King of Yue what you said. The King of Yue was very frightened and said: I am very unlucky. I lost my father when I was young.
Five days later, Wen Zhong, a senior official from the State of Yue, kowtowed to the ground and said to the King of Wu: Gou Jian, the minister of the East China Sea Service, would like to send the envoy Wen Zhong to repair your subordinates and ask them to send greetings to the king.
Now I heard privately that the king is going to launch an army of justice to attack the violent, support the weak and tyrannical Qi State and appease the Zhou royal family. I request to send out the entire army of 3,000 people in Yue State. Gou Jian requested to personally wear armor and carry sharp weapons, and was willing to risk the danger of arrows and stones in front.
Therefore, Wen Zhong, a humble minister of the Yue Kingdom, was sent to present the treasures treasured by his ancestors, including twelve pieces of armor, axes, Qulu spears, and light swords, as gifts to the noble military officials.
The King of Wu was very happy after hearing this and told Zigong what Wen Zhong had said: The King of Yue wants to follow me personally to attack Qi. Is that okay?
Zigong replied: No.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
夫空人之国，悉人之众，又从其君，不义。
君受其币，许其师，而辞其君。
吴王许诺，乃谢越王。
於是吴王乃遂发九郡兵伐齐。
子贡因去之晋，谓晋君曰： 臣闻之，虑不先定不可以应卒，兵不先辨不可以胜敌。
今夫齐与吴将战，彼战而不胜，越乱之必矣；与齐战而胜，必以其兵临晋。 晋君大恐，曰： 为之柰何？
子贡曰： 修兵休卒以待之。
晋君许诺。
子贡去而之鲁。
吴王果与齐人战於艾陵，大破齐师，获七将军之兵而不归，果以兵临晋，与晋人相遇黄池之上。
吴晋争彊。晋人击之，大败吴师。
越王闻之，涉江袭吴，去城七里而军。
吴王闻之，去晋而归，与越战於五湖。
三战不胜，城门不守，越遂围王宫，杀夫差而戮其相。
破吴三年，东向而霸。
故子贡一出，存鲁，乱齐，破吴，彊晋而霸越。
子贡一使，使势相破，十年之中，五国各有变。
translation: 
It is unethical to make someone else's country empty, mobilize all his troops, and ask his king to follow him on an expedition.
You accept his gift and allow him to send his army without his king accompanying him.
The king of Wu agreed and thanked the king of Yue.
So King Wu mobilized the troops from nine counties to attack Qi.
Zigong therefore left the state of Wu and went to the state of Jin. He said to the king of Jin: I heard that if you don't plan a strategy in advance, you can't cope with sudden changes, and if you don't manage the army well in advance, you can't defeat the enemy.
Now the state of Qi and the state of Wu are about to go to war. If the state of Wu cannot win the war, the state of Yue will definitely take the opportunity to disrupt it; after winning the battle with the state of Qi, the king of Wu will definitely lead his army to approach the state of Jin. Jin was very panicked and said: What should we do?
Zigong said: Prepare your weapons, recuperate your soldiers, and wait for the arrival of the Wu army.
Jin Jun did as he said.
Zigong left Jin and went to Lu.
Sure enough, the King of Wu fought a battle with the Qi people in Ailing and defeated the Qi army. He captured seven generals' soldiers and refused to return home. Sure enough, he led his troops to approach the Jin state and met the Jin people in Huangchi.
Wu and Jin were competing for supremacy. The Jin people attacked Wu and defeated the Wu army.
When the King of Yue heard the news of the Wu army's disastrous defeat, he crossed the river to attack the state of Wu. He did not set up camp until he was seven miles away from the capital of the state of Wu.
When King Wu heard the news, he left Jin and returned to Wu, where he fought with the Yue army in the Five Lakes area.
Many battles failed, and even the city gate could not be defended. So the Vietnamese army surrounded the palace and killed King Wu Fucha and his minister.
Three years after the destruction of the Wu State, the Yue State dominated the east.
Therefore, Zigong's trip saved the state of Lu, disrupted the state of Qi, destroyed the state of Wu, made the state of Jin strong, and enabled the state of Yue to dominate.
Zigong's mission caused corresponding changes in the situation of various countries. Within ten years, the situations of Qi, Lu, Wu, Jin, and Yue each changed.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
子贡好废举，与时转货赀。
喜扬人之美，不能匿人之过。
常相鲁卫，家累千金，卒终于齐。
言偃，吴人，字子游。
少孔子四十五岁。
子游既已受业，为武城宰。
孔子过，闻弦歌之声。
孔子莞尔而笑曰： 割鸡焉用牛刀？
子游曰： 昔者偃闻诸夫子曰，君子学道则爱人，小人学道则易使。
孔子曰： 二三子，偃之言是也。
前言戏之耳。
孔子以为子游习於文学。
卜商字子夏。
少孔子四十四岁。
子夏问：  巧笑倩兮，美目盼兮，素以为绚兮 ，何谓也？
子曰： 绘事後素。
曰： 礼後乎？
孔子曰： 商始可与言诗已矣。
子贡问： 师与商孰贤？
translation: 
Zigong was good at hoarding rare things, buying at low prices and selling at high prices, and changing hands to make profits according to the supply and demand situation.
He likes to promote the strengths of others and does not hide the faults of others.
He once served as the prime minister of Lu and Wei, and his family fortune accumulated thousands of gold. He eventually died in Qi.
Yan Yan was from the state of Wu and his courtesy name was Ziyou.
Forty-five years younger than Confucius.
After Ziyou received his profession, he served as the governor of Wucheng.
Confucius passed by Wucheng and heard the sound of playing the harp and singing.
Confucius smiled slightly and said: Why use a knife to kill a chicken?
Ziyou: Once upon a time, I heard my husband say: Talented people who learn rituals and music will cultivate their benevolence and love the people; ordinary people who learn rituals and music will abide by laws and regulations and be easy to control.
Confucius said to the accompanying students: Everyone, what Yan Yan said is correct.
What I just said was just a joke.
Confucius believed that Ziyou was familiar with articles and erudite.
Bu Shang, courtesy name Zixia.
Forty-four years younger than Confucius.
Zixia asked: "The beautiful smile is charming and moving, the bright eyes are flowing and shining, and the pure white hair of the Buddha is dyed with brilliant literary colors. What do these three sentences mean?"
Confucius replied: Painting must first have a pure white background, and then decorate the picture with color.
Zixia said: Did the emergence of ritual and music come after benevolence and righteousness?
Confucius said: Fortune teller, now I can discuss the Book of Songs with you.
Zigong asked: Which one is stronger, master Zhuan Sun or the diviner?


Chunk 14: 
original: 
子曰： 师也过，商也不及。
然则师愈与？
曰： 过犹不及。
子谓子夏曰： 汝为君子儒，无为小人儒。
孔子既没，子夏居西河教授，为魏文侯师。
其子死，哭之失明。颛孙师，陈人，字子张。
少孔子四十八岁。
子张问干禄，孔子曰： 多闻阙疑，慎言其馀，则寡尤；多见阙殆，慎行其馀，则寡悔。
言寡尤，行寡悔，禄在其中矣。
他日从在陈蔡间，困，问行。
孔子曰： 言忠信，行笃敬，虽蛮貊之国行也；言不忠信，行不笃敬，虽州里行乎哉！
立则见其参於前也，在舆则见其倚於衡，夫然後行。
子张书诸绅。
子张问： 士何如斯可谓之达矣？
孔子曰： 何哉，尔所谓达者？
子张对曰： 在国必闻，在家必闻。
孔子曰： 是闻也，非达也。
夫达者，质直而好义，察言而观色，虑以下人，在国及家必达。
夫闻也者，色取仁而行违，居之不疑，在国及家必闻。
translation: 
Confucius said: Master, it's a little too much, Shang, it's a little behind.
Zigong said: Is Master Zhuan Sun any better?
Confucius said: Excess and failure to catch up are equally imperfect.
Confucius said to Zixia: You must aspire to be a talented and virtuous scholar, not a shallow and dishonest scholar.
After the death of Confucius, Zixia settled in Hexi to teach students and became the teacher of Wei Wenhou.
Zixia's son died, and he cried his eyes out. Master Zhuan Sun was a native of Chen State, his courtesy name was Zizhang.
Forty-eight years younger than Confucius.
Zizhang learned from Confucius how to obtain official salary. Confucius said: Listen more to what others say, and do not make rash comments about unsolved problems. Others should be cautious when speaking out, so that you can make fewer mistakes; watch more people's actions, and don't act rashly about unsolved problems. Others should act cautiously, which can reduce regrets.
The fewer mistakes you make in your words and the fewer regrets in your actions, the official salary you seek will be contained in it.
One day Zizhang followed Confucius and was besieged between the states of Chen and Cai. Zizhang asked how to make everything work.
Confucius said: If you are honest and trustworthy in your words and sincere and respectful in your actions, it will work even in the southern barbarians and Beidi; if you are not loyal and trustworthy in your words and sincere and respectful in your actions, will it work even in your own hometown?
When standing, the words "loyalty, trust and reverence" appear before your eyes; when sitting in the car, the words "loyalty, trust and reverence" are hung on the crossbar in front of the car. Once you reach this point, it will work everywhere.
Zizhang wrote these words on the big belt around his waist.
Zizhang asked: What can a scholar do to be called enlightened?
Confucius said: What do you mean by mastery?
Zizhang replied: "You must have a good reputation among the princes' states, and you must also have a good reputation in the families of ministers and officials."
Confucius said: This is reputation, not understanding.
The so-called understanding should be upright and righteous, consider other people's words, observe other people's expressions, and always think about humility and concession. In this way, you will be able to gain access in the states of princes and the fiefdoms of ministers and officials.
The reputation mentioned above seems to be pursuing benevolence, but in actual actions it violates benevolence. You have to deal with it calmly. There is no doubt that such a person will definitely gain fame in the states of princes and the fiefdoms of ministers and officials.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
曾参，南武城人，字子舆。少孔子四十六岁。
孔子以为能通孝道，故授之业。
作孝经。
死於鲁。
澹台灭明，武城人，字子羽。
少孔子三十九岁。
状貌甚恶。
欲事孔子，孔子以为材薄。
既已受业，退而修行，行不由径，非公事不见卿大夫。
南游至江，从弟子三百人，设取予去就，名施乎诸侯。
孔子闻之，曰： 吾以言取人，失之宰予；以貌取人，失之子羽。
宓不齐字子贱。
少孔子三十岁。
孔子谓 子贱君子哉！
鲁无君子，斯焉取斯？
子贱为单父宰，反命於孔子，曰： 此国有贤不齐者五人，教不齐所以治者。
孔子曰： 惜哉不齐所治者小，所治者大则庶几矣。
原宪字子思。
translation: 
Zeng Shen was a native of Nanwucheng, named Liaoyu, and was forty-six years younger than Confucius.
Confucius thought that he could understand filial piety, so he taught him his studies.
He wrote a "Book of Filial Piety".
He died in the state of Lu.
Tantai Mieming was a native of Wucheng, named Ziyu.
Thirty-nine years younger than Confucius.
His body and appearance were ugly.
He wanted to serve Confucius, but Confucius thought that he had low qualifications.
After studying as a teacher, he devoted himself to self-cultivation practice when he returned home. He dealt with things openly and honestly, and did not take evil paths. It was not for official business and he never met with officials or officials.
He traveled south to the Yangtze River, and there were three hundred students who followed him. He was flawless in acquiring, giving, abandoning, and pursuing, and his reputation spread to the princes in all directions.
Confucius heard these things and said: If I judge people by words only, my judgment of Jaeyu is wrong; if I judge people by appearance alone, my judgment of Ziyu is wrong.
The words are not neat and the characters are cheap.
Thirty years younger than Confucius.
Confucius talked about Mi Zi Jian and said: Zi Jian is really a gentleman!
If there are no gentlemen in the state of Lu, where did this person learn such good character?
Zi Jian was appointed as Shanfu's local governor. He came back and reported to Confucius, saying: "There are five people in this place who are more talented than me. They taught me how to govern the people."
Confucius said: What a pity! The areas that are not managed uniformly are too small. If the areas that are managed are large, it will be almost the same.
Yuan Xian, courtesy name Zisi.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
子思问耻。
孔子曰： 国有道，穀。
国无道，穀，耻也。
子思曰： 克伐怨欲不行焉，可以为仁乎？
孔子曰： 可以为难矣，仁则吾弗知也。
孔子卒，原宪遂亡在草泽中。
子贡相卫，而结驷连骑，排藜藿入穷阎，过谢原宪。
宪摄敝衣冠见子贡。
子贡耻之，曰： 夫子岂病乎？
原宪曰： 吾闻之，无财者谓之贫，学道而不能行者谓之病。
若宪，贫也，非病也。
子贡惭，不怿而去，终身耻其言之过也。公冶长，齐人，字子长。
孔子曰： 长可妻也，虽在累绁之中，非其罪也。
以其子妻之。南宫括字子容。
问孔子曰： 羿善射，奡荡舟，俱不得其死然；禹稷躬稼而有天下？
translation: 
Zisi asked what shame was.
Confucius said: If the country's politics are clear, you can be an official and receive a salary, but you can't see trees.
The country's politics are dark, and it is a shame to be an official and receive a salary but not be able to stand alone.
Zisi said: If competitiveness, self-praising, resentment, and greed are not revealed, can it be regarded as benevolence?
Confucius said: It can be said to be commendable. Whether it can be regarded as benevolence, I don't know.
After Confucius passed away, Yuan Xian went to live in seclusion in a low-lying place with water and overgrown weeds.
Zigong became the Prime Minister of Wei State, and there was a continuous stream of carriages and horses when he went out, pushing through the thick weeds, and came to a remote, simple and dilapidated hut to visit Yuan Xian.
Yuan Xian tidied up his shabby clothes and met Zigong.
Seeing this, Zigong felt ashamed for him and said, "Are you embarrassed?"
Yuan Xian replied: I have heard that those who have no property are called poverty, and those who have learned principles but cannot implement them are called embarrassment.
Like me, poverty is not embarrassment.
Zigong felt very ashamed and left unhappy. He felt ashamed for his whole life that he had said the wrong thing this time. Gongye Chang was a native of Qi State, with the courtesy name Zichang.
Confucius said: If Gong Ye is the leader, you can marry your daughter to him. Even if he is in prison, it is not his fault.
He married his daughter to him. Nangong Kuo, courtesy name Zirong.
Nangong Kuo asked Confucius: Yi is good at archery and Yi is good at rowing, but neither of them can end well; how can Yu and Ji cultivate the world by themselves?


Chunk 17: 
original: 
孔子弗答。
容出，孔子曰： 君子哉若人！
上德哉若人！  国有道，不废；国无道，免於刑戮。
三复 白珪之玷 ，以其兄之子妻之。
公皙哀字季次。
孔子曰： 天下无行，多为家臣，仕於都；唯季次未尝仕。
曾字皙。
侍孔子，孔子曰： 言尔志。
曰： 春服既成，冠者五六人，童子六七人，浴乎沂，风乎舞雩，咏而归。
孔子喟尔叹曰： 吾与点也！
颜无繇字路。
路者，颜回父，父子尝各异时事孔子。
颜回死，颜路贫，请孔子车以葬。
孔子曰： 材不材，亦各言其子也。
鲤也死，有棺而无椁，吾不徒行以为之椁，以吾从大夫之後，不可以徒行。
商瞿，鲁人，字子木。少孔子二十九岁。
孔子传易於瞿，瞿传楚人馯臂子弘，弘传江东人矫子庸疵，疵传燕人周子家竖，竖传淳于人光子乘羽，羽传齐人田子庄何，何传东武人王子中同，同传菑川人杨何。
何元朔中以治易为汉中大夫。
translation: 
Confucius didn't answer.
After Nan Zirong withdrew, Confucius said: This man is really a gentleman! This person advocates morality!
Confucius commented on him: If the country's politics are clear, he will be appointed; if the country's politics is dark, he will not be punished.
He recited a few lines of the poem "The Defilement of Bai Gui" over and over again, and Confucius married his niece to him.
Gongxiai, named Jici.
Confucius said: The scholars in the world have no good deeds. Most of them have become retainers of ministers and officials in the cities. Only Ji Ji has never been an official.
Zeng Jun, courtesy name Xi.
He accompanied Confucius, and Confucius said: Talk about your ambitions.
Zeng Jun said: Wearing newly made spring clothes, we took a bath in the Yishui River with five or six adults and six or seven children, blew the wind on the rain praying platform, and came back singing songs.
After hearing this, Confucius sighed deeply and said: I agree with Zeng Jun's ambition!
Yan Wuyao, named Lu.
Yan Lu was Yan Hui's father. Both father and son studied under Confucius.
Yan Hui died and Yan Lu was poor. He asked Confucius to sell his car and bury Yan Hui.
Confucius said: No matter whether Kong Li is talented or not, he is still our son to us.
When Kong Li died, there was only an inner coffin but no outer coffin. I couldn't sell my car and walk on foot to buy him a coffin, because I was once a doctor and walking on foot was not allowed.
Shang Qu was a native of Lu. His courtesy name is Zimu, twenty-nine years younger than Confucius.
Confucius taught the Book of Changes to Shang Qu. Shang Qu passed it on to Zihong, a native of Chu. Zihong passed it on to Jiaozi Yongxian, a native of Jiangdong. Yongzhen passed it on to Zhou Zijiashu, a native of Yan. Zhoushu passed it on to Guangzi Chengyu, a native of Chunyu. Guangyu passed it on to Tianzizhuanghe, a native of Qi. Tianhe passed it on to Zhongtong, a prince from Dongwu. Zhongtong passed it on to Yang He, a native of Suichuan.
During the reign of Emperor Wu and Yuanshuo of the Han Dynasty, Yang He served as the middle doctor of Zi Dang Dynasty because of his study of the Book of Changes.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
高柴字子羔。
少孔子三十岁。
子羔长不盈五尺，受业孔子，孔子以为愚。
子路使子羔为费郈宰，孔子曰： 贼夫人之子！
子路曰： 有民人焉，有社稷焉，何必读书然後为学！
孔子曰： 是故恶夫佞者。
漆彫开字子开。
孔子使开仕，对曰： 吾斯之未能信。
孔子说。
公伯缭字子周。
周愬子路於季孙，子服景伯以告孔子，曰： 夫子固有惑志，缭也，吾力犹能肆诸市朝。
孔子曰： 道之将行，命也；道之将废，命也。公伯缭其如命何！
司马耕字子牛。
牛多言而躁。
问仁於孔子，孔子曰： 仁者其言也讱。
曰： 其言也讱，斯可谓之仁乎？
子曰： 为之难，言之得无讱乎！
问君子，子曰： 君子不忧不惧。
曰： 不忧不惧，斯可谓之君子乎？
translation: 
Gao Chai, whose courtesy name is Zigao.
Thirty years younger than Confucius.
Zigao was less than five feet long and studied under Confucius. Confucius thought he was stupid.
Zilu appointed Zigao as the governor of Feiyi. Confucius said: This is killing other people’s children!
Zilu said: There are people there. There are temples dedicated to the gods of earth and grain. Why must reading be called knowledge?
Confucius said: Therefore I hate people who flatter themselves with sweet words.
The lacquer carvings are opened and the characters are opened.
Confucius asked Zikai to become an official. Zikai replied: I don't have confidence in being an official yet.
Confucius was very happy to hear this.
Gongbo Liao, courtesy name Zizhou.
Zizhou spoke ill of Zilu in front of Jisun. Zifu Jingbo told Confucius and said: Jisun was already suspicious, but I still had the strength to kill Gongbo Liao and display his body in the street.
Confucius said: If the right way can work, that is God's will. If the right way is abandoned and cannot be used, it is also God's will. What can Gong Bo Liao do to God's will?
Sima Geng, courtesy name Ziniu.
Ziniu talks a lot and has an impatient temper.
He asked Confucius about benevolence, and Confucius said: A benevolent person is very careful in his words.
Ziniu asked again: "If you speak carefully, can this be considered benevolence?"
Confucius said: It's difficult to do, but you can't be cautious when talking!
Ziniu asked what makes a gentleman, and Confucius said: A gentleman is neither sad nor afraid.
He then asked: If he is not worried or afraid, can he be considered a gentleman?


Chunk 19: 
original: 
子曰： 内省不疚，夫何忧何惧！
樊须字子迟。
少孔子三十六岁。
樊迟请学稼，孔子曰： 吾不如老农。
请学圃，曰： 吾不如老圃。
樊迟出，孔子曰： 小人哉樊须也！
上好礼，则民莫敢不敬；上好义，则民莫敢不服；上好信，则民莫敢不用情。
夫如是，则四方之民襁负其子而至矣，焉用稼！
樊迟问仁，子曰： 爱人。
问智，曰： 知人。
有若少孔子四十三岁。
有若曰： 礼之用，和为贵，先王之道斯为美。
小大由之，有所不行；知和而和，不以礼节之，亦不可行也。
信近於义，言可复也；恭近於礼，远耻辱也；因不失其亲，亦可宗也。
孔子既没，弟子思慕，有若状似孔子，弟子相与共立为师，师之如夫子时也。
translation: 
Confucius said: If you reflect on yourself and have no guilt in your heart, there is nothing to worry about and nothing to be afraid of!
Fan Xu, courtesy name Zi Chi.
Thirty-six years younger than Confucius.
Fan Xu asked Confucius to learn how to grow crops. Confucius said: I am not as good as an old farmer.
He also asked to learn how to grow vegetables. Confucius said: I am not as good as an old vegetable farmer.
After Fan Chi withdrew, Confucius said: Fan Xu is a villain with shallow ambitions!
If the ruler advocates propriety and justice, no one among the people will dare to be disrespectful; if the ruler is sincere and faithful, no one among the people will dare not to tell the truth.
If this could be done, then people from all over the world would come to seek refuge with their wrapped children on their backs, and there would be no need to grow their own crops.
Fan Chi asked what benevolence was, and Confucius said: Love all people!
Asked again what wisdom is, Confucius said: Understanding people.
Youruo was forty-three years younger than Confucius.
You Ruo said: The application of etiquette should be just right.
This is the most brilliant way that the sage kings in the past used to govern the country. It would not work if they handled both small and big things according to this principle. But it would also not work if they only knew the importance of harmony and blindly pursued it without using propriety to control it.
Youruo also said: The promises kept must be consistent with righteousness, and the promises can withstand the test of practice. If respect is in line with etiquette, you can avoid shame; if you rely on those who are close to you, you will be reliable.
After Confucius passed away, students missed him very much. Youruo looks a lot like Confucius, and the students all support him as a teacher and treat him as they did when they served Confucius.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
他日，弟子进问曰： 昔夫子当行，使弟子持雨具，已而果雨。
弟子问曰： 夫子何以知之？
夫子曰： 诗不云乎？ 月离于毕，俾滂沱矣。
昨暮月不宿毕乎？
他日，月宿毕，竟不雨。
商瞿年长无子，其母为取室。
孔子使之齐，瞿母请之。
孔子曰： 无忧，瞿年四十後当有五丈夫子。
已而果然。
问夫子何以知此？
有若默然无以应。
弟子起曰： 有子避之，此非子之座也！
公西赤字子华。
少孔子四十二岁。
子华使於齐，冉有为其母请粟。孔子曰： 与之釜。
请益，曰： 与之庾。
冉子与之粟五秉。孔子曰： 赤之適齐也，乘肥马，衣轻裘。
吾闻君子周急不继富。
巫马施字子旗。少孔子三十岁。
陈司败问孔子曰： 鲁昭公知礼乎？
孔子曰： 知礼。
退而揖巫马旗曰： 吾闻君子不党，君子亦党乎？
translation: 
One day, a student came in and asked him: Once upon a time, when my husband was about to go out, he asked his classmates to bring their rain gear. Soon it started to rain.
The students asked: How did Sir know that it was going to rain?
The teacher replied: "Isn't it said in the Book of Songs: When the moon is attached to the position of Bi Xing, it will rain heavily."
Didn't the moon sit on the seat of Hyades last night?
One day, the moon stayed at the position of the Hyade star again, but it didn't rain.
Shang Qu was old and had no sons, so his mother wanted to find another wife for him.
Confucius sent him to Qi State, but Shang Qu's mother begged not to send him.
Confucius said: Don't worry, Shang Qu will have five boys after he is forty years old.
Afterwards, it turned out to be the case.
May I ask how you, sir, could have known in advance that this would be the case?
Youruo is silent and unable to answer.
The students stood up and said, "Sir, please stay out of here. This seat is not for you!"
Gongxichi, courtesy name Zihua.
Forty-two years younger than Confucius.
Zihua was on an envoy to Qi, and Ran You asked Confucius for food for his mother.
Confucius said: Give him a cauldron.
Ran You asked for more, and Confucius said: "Then give him a Yu." , Ran You gave her five grains. Confucius said: Gongxi Chi went to Qi State, riding in a carriage with fat horses and wearing light and warm fur clothes.
I have heard that a gentleman relieves the poor in urgent need rather than increasing his wealth.
Wuma Shi, also known as Ziqi, was thirty years younger than Confucius.
Chen Sibai asked Confucius: Does Duke Zhao of Lu know etiquette?
Confucius said: Understand etiquette.
After Confucius left, Chen Sibai bowed to Wuma Qi and said: I heard that a gentleman is not partial to others. Could it be that a gentleman will also be partial to others?


Chunk 21: 
original: 
鲁君娶吴女为夫人，命之为孟子。
孟子姓姬，讳称同姓，故谓之孟子。
鲁君而知礼，孰不知礼！
施以告孔子，孔子曰： 丘也幸，苟有过，人必知之。
臣不可言君亲之恶，为讳者，礼也。
梁鱣字叔鱼。少孔子二十九岁。
颜幸字子柳。少孔子四十六岁。
冉孺字子鲁，少孔子五十岁。
曹恤字子循。少孔子五十岁。
伯虔字子析，少孔子五十岁。
公孙龙字子石。少孔子五十三岁。
自子石已右三十五人，显有年名及受业见于书传。
其四十有二人，无年及不见书传者纪于左：
冉季字子产。
公祖句兹字子之。
秦祖字子南。
漆雕哆字子敛。
颜高字子骄。
漆雕徒父。
壤驷赤字子徒。
商泽。
石作蜀字子明。
任不齐字选。
公良孺字子正。
translation: 
Duke Zhao of Lu married a girl from Wu as his wife and named her Mencius.
Mencius's real surname was Ji, and he avoided calling her by the same surname, so he called her Wu Mencius.
If Mr. Lu knows etiquette, then who else doesn’t?
Wu Masi conveyed these words to Confucius, and Confucius said: I am so lucky. If I make a mistake, others will definitely know about it.
The ministers cannot criticize the king's faults, but those who help him avoid taboos are those who understand etiquette.
Liang Yu, also known as Shuyu, was twenty-nine years younger than Confucius.
Yan Xing, also named Ziliu, was forty-six years younger than Confucius.
Ran Ru, named Zi Lu, was fifty years younger than Confucius.
Cao, whose courtesy name was Zixun, was fifty years younger than Confucius.
Boqian, whose courtesy name was Zixi, was fifty years younger than Confucius.
Gongsun Long, whose courtesy name was Zishi, was fifty-three years younger than Confucius.
There are clearly written records of the thirty-five people from Zishi and above on their ages, names, careers and deeds.
The remaining forty-two people, whose age cannot be tested and whose written records are not available, are recorded below:
Ran Ji, courtesy name Zichan.
Gongzu's name was Zi, with the courtesy name Zizhi.
Qin Zu, named Zinan.
The lacquer carving is Duo and the character is Zi Lian.
Yan Gao, this word is arrogant.
The lacquer carving disciple's father.
Rangsichi, named Zitu.
Shang Ze.
Shi Zuoshu, courtesy name Ziming.
Ren Buqi, word selection.
Gongliangru, whose courtesy name is Zizheng.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
后处字子里。
秦冉字开。
公夏首字乘。
奚容箴字子皙。
公肩定字子中。
颜祖字襄。
鄡单字子家。
句井疆。
罕父黑字子索。
秦商字子丕。
申党字周。
颜之仆字叔。
荣旂字子祈。
县成字子祺。
左人郢字行。
燕伋字思。
郑国字子徒。
秦非字子之。
施之常字子恆。
颜哙字子声。
步叔乘字子车。
原亢籍。
乐欬字子声。
廉絜字庸。
叔仲会字子期。
颜何字冉。
狄黑字皙。
邦巽字子敛。
孔忠。
公西舆如字子上。
公西葴字子上。
太史公曰：学者多称七十子之徒，誉者或过其实，毁者或损其真，钧之未睹厥容貌，则论言弟子籍，出孔氏古文近是。
余以弟子名姓文字悉取论语弟子问并次为篇，疑者阙焉。
translation: 
Behind the words, in the words.
Qin Ran, named Kai.
The first name of Gong Xia is Cheng.
Xi Rongzhen, whose courtesy name is Zixi.
Gong Jian Ding, the character is Zizhong.
Yan Zu, whose courtesy name is Xiang.
Shandan, named Zijia.
Jujing territory.
Hanfuhei, named Zisuo.
Qin Shang, courtesy name Zi Pi.
Shen Dang, courtesy name Zhou.
Yan's servant, named Uncle.
Rongqi, named Ziqi.
County Cheng, courtesy name Ziqi.
Zuo Ren Ying, Zi Xing.
Yan Ji, the word Si.
Zheng Guo, courtesy name Zitu.
Qin Fei, also named Zi Zhi.
The word of giving is constant.
Yan Kuai, the word is Zisheng.
Bu Shu Cheng, named Zi Che.
Yuan Kang, Zi Ji.
Leke, the sound of the word Zizi.
Lian Ji, courtesy name Yong.
Shu Zhonghui, courtesy name Ziqi.
Yan He, courtesy name Ran.
Di Hei, courtesy name Xi.
Bang Xun, whose courtesy name is Zi Lian.
Kong Zhong.
Gongxi Yuru, named Zishang.
Gong Xiwei, courtesy name Zishang.
Tai Shigong said: Later generations of scholars all described the seventy disciples of Confucius. Some of those who praised them exceeded their reality, and some of those who slandered them damaged their true image. In short, no one has seen their true appearance and commented on them.
The life stories of Confucius disciples are still close to the truth in Kong's ancient writings. Regarding the names, surnames, words and deeds of Confucius's disciples, I took them all from the disciples' questions and answers in The Analects of Confucius, compiled them into chapters, and left blanks where there are questions.


