Summary uses chunk [0, 2, 22, 24, 33, 34]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
西羌之本，出自三苗，姜姓之别也。
其国近南岳。
及舜流四凶，徙之三危，河关之西南羌地是也。滨于赐支，至乎河首，绵地千里。
赐支者，《禹贡》所谓析支者也。
南接蜀、汉徼外蛮夷，西北接鄯善、车师诸国。
所居无常，依随水草。
地少五谷，以产牧为业。
其俗氏族无定，或以父名母姓为种号。
十二世后，相与婚姻，父没则妻后母，兄亡则纳嫂，故国无鳏寡，种类繁炽。
不立君臣，无相长一，强则分种为酋豪，弱则为人附落，更相抄暴，以力为雄。
杀人偿死，无它禁令。
其兵长在山谷，短于平地，不能持久，而果于触突，以战死为吉利，病终为不祥。
堪耐寒苦，同之禽兽。
虽妇人产子，亦不避风雪。
性坚刚勇猛，得西方金行之气焉。
王政修则宾服，德教失则寇乱。
translation: 
Xiqiang originally came from Sanmiao, another branch of the Jiang surname.
The Western Qiang Kingdom is close to Nanyue.
When Shun exiled four stubborn people, he exiled them to Sanwei, which is the Qiang area southwest of Heguan. This area is wrapped around the Cizhi River and stretches for thousands of miles to the head of Cizhi River.
The gift branch is the analysis branch mentioned in "Yu Gong".
This area borders the barbarians outside the borders of Shu and Han to the south, and borders Shanshan, Cheshi and other countries to the northwest.
The Xiqiang people do not have fixed residences. They migrate with water and grass.
Grains are rarely grown on this land, and they mainly rely on livestock raising.
The custom of Xiqiang is that clans are not fixed. Some clans use the father's name and the mother's surname as the title of their tribe.
After the twelfth generation, clans intermarry with each other. After the father dies, he marries his stepmother, and after his elder brother dies, he marries his widower. Therefore, there are no widowers or widows in the Xiqiang country, and the population reproduces quickly.
Xiqiang does not have a king or ministers, and no one is its leader. If the power is strong, they will separate into races and become chiefs. If the power is weak, they will become subordinate tribes of others. They plundered and invaded each other, ruling the roost with violence.
Kill for life, there is no other prohibition.
The soldiers of Xiqiang are good at fighting in the valleys, but not on the plains; they cannot fight for a long time, but they dare to charge into battle; they regard death in battle as auspicious, while death from illness is considered unlucky.
The Xiqiang people can endure cold and hardship just like animals.
Even when women give birth to children, they do not hide from the wind and snow.
The Xiqiang people are strong and brave in fighting for the land, and they have accepted the energy of the metal element in the five elements and the west.
If the emperor's government is clear and clear, the barbarians will surrender; if the emperor loses virtue and education, the barbarians will invade and cause chaos.

summary:
summary line 0: The Xiqiang people, originally from Sanmiao, a branch of the Jiang surname, lived in a region near Nanyue, stretching from the Cizhi River to the borders of Shu and Han in the south and Shanshan and Cheshi in the northwest. They were nomadic, migrating with water and grass, relying primarily on livestock rather than grain. Their society lacked fixed clans, with tribes named after paternal or maternal lines. After twelve generations, intermarriage occurred, and customs included marrying stepmothers after a father's death and widows after an elder brother's death, leading to rapid population growth. They had no central ruler; power determined leadership, with violence and plunder common. Their soldiers excelled in valley combat but not on plains, valued death in battle over illness, and endured harsh conditions.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
至穆王时，戎狄不贡，王乃西征犬戎，获其五王，又得四白鹿，四白狼，王遂迁戎于太原。
夷王衰弱，荒服不朝，乃命虢公率六师伐太原之戎，至于俞泉，获马千匹。
厉王无道，戎狄寇掠，乃入犬丘，杀秦仲之族。王命伐戎，不克。
及宣王立四年，使秦仲伐戎，为戎所杀。
王乃召秦仲子庄公，与兵七千人伐戎，破之，由是少却。
后二十七年，王遣兵伐太原戎，不克。
后五年，王伐条戎、奔戎，王师败绩。
后二年，晋人败北戎于汾隰，戎人灭姜侯之邑。
明年，王征申戎，破之。
后十年，幽王命伯士伐六济之戎，军败，伯士死焉。
其年，戎围犬丘，虏秦襄公之兄伯父。
时幽王昏虐，四夷交侵，遂废申后而立褒姒。
申侯怒，与戎寇周，杀幽王于郦山，周乃东迁洛邑，秦襄公攻戎救周。
后二年，邢侯大破北戎。
及平王之末，周遂陵迟，戎逼诸夏，自陇山以东，及乎伊、洛，往往有戎。
于是渭首有狄、豸原、邽、冀之戎，泾北有义渠之戎，洛川有大荔之戎，渭南有骊戎，伊、洛间有杨拒、泉皋之戎，颍首以西有蛮氏之戎。
当春秋时，间在中国，与诸夏盟会。
鲁庄公伐秦，取邽、冀之戎。
后十余岁，晋灭骊戎。是时，伊、洛戎强，东侵曹、鲁。后十九年，遂入王城。于是秦、晋伐戎以救周。
后二年，又寇京师，齐桓公征诸侯戍周。
后九年，陆浑戎自瓜州迁于伊川，允姓戎迁于渭汭，东及辕。
在河南山北者号曰阴戎，阴戎之种遂以滋广。
晋文公欲修霸业，乃赂戎狄通道，以匡王室。
秦穆公得戎人由余，遂霸西戎，开地千里。
及晋悼公，又使魏绛和诸戎，复修霸业。
translation: 
At the time of King Mu, the Rongdi did not pay tribute to the Zhou Dynasty. King Mu then marched westward against the Quanrong, captured the five kings of the Quanrong, and obtained four white deer and four white wolves. King Mu then moved the Rong people to Taiyuan.
During the reign of King Yi, the Zhou Dynasty was weak and the Rong people from the outlying areas did not come to worship. The emperor ordered Duke Guo to lead a division of six armies to attack the Rong people in Taiyuan as far as Yuquan and obtained a thousand horses.
King Li was cruel, and the Rong and Di invaded and plundered. He even entered Quanqiu and killed Qin Zhong's family. The emperor ordered to conquer the Rong people, but they could not win.
In the fourth year after King Xuan succeeded to the throne, he sent Qin Zhong to attack the Rong people, but Qin Zhong was killed by the Rong people.
The emperor then summoned Duke Zhuang, son of Qin Zhong, and gave him seven thousand troops to conquer the Rong people. He defeated the Rong people, and the Rong people retreated slightly.
Twenty-seven years later, the emperor sent an army to attack the Rong people in Taiyuan, but could not win.
Five years later, the emperor conquered Tiao Rong and Ben Rong, and the emperor's army was defeated by the Rong people.
Two years later, the Jin people defeated the Beirong at Xiaxi by the Fen River. The Rong people also destroyed Jianghou's fiefdom.
The next year, the emperor conquered Shen Rong and defeated him.
Ten years later, King You ordered Bo Shi to conquer the Rong people in Liuji. As a result, the army was defeated and Bo Shi died there.
This year, the Rong people surrounded Quanqiu and captured Qin Xianggong's brother and uncle.
At that time, King You was fatuous and cruel, and barbarians from all directions invaded alternately. As a result, King You deposed Queen Shen and made Bao Si the queen.
The Marquis of Shen was angry, so he invaded the Zhou Dynasty with his troops and killed King You in Mount Li. Zhou then moved eastward to Luoyi, and Qin Xianggong attacked the Rong people to rescue the Zhou Dynasty.
Two years later, Xinghou defeated Beirong.
By the end of King Ping's reign, the Zhou Dynasty finally weakened. The Rong people are approaching the Central Plains, and there are Rong people everywhere from Longshan to the east to Yishui and Luoshui.
At this time, there were the armies of Di, Xi, Bang, and Ji in the upper reaches of the Wei River, the Rong of Yiqu in the north of the Jing River, the Rong of Dali in the Luo River, the Li Rong in the south bank of the Wei River, the Rong of Yang Ju and Quan Gao in the upper reaches of the Yishui River, and the Rong of Manshi in the west of the upper reaches of the Ying River.
During the Spring and Autumn Period, Rong people occasionally entered the Central Plains and participated in alliances with various Chinese countries.
Duke Zhuang of Lu attacked Qin and captured the state and the army of Ji.
More than ten years later, Jin lost Li Rong. At this time, Yi and Luo Zhirong became stronger and invaded Cao and Lu eastward. Nineteen years later, they finally entered the capital of the emperor. So Qin and Jin attacked the Rong people to rescue the emperor of Zhou.
Two years later, the Rong invaded the capital again. Duke Huan of Qi fine-tuned the troops of the princely states to garrison in Zhou.
Nine years later, Lu Hunrong moved from Guazhou to Yichuan, and Yunrong moved to the Weishui and Youshui areas, and he arrived in Nanyuan with his face tied.
Those south of the Yellow River and north of the mountains are called Yinrong, and the Yinrong race multiplies more and more.
Duke Wen of Jin wanted to establish his hegemony, so he bribed Rong Di and asked them to open a road to assist the emperor of Zhou.
Duke Mugong of Qin got the rest of the Rong people and finally dominated Xirong and opened up thousands of miles of land.
At the time of Duke Mourning of the Jin Dynasty, Wei Jiang was sent to make peace with the Rong and once again established his hegemony.

summary:
summary line 1: Historically, the Xiqiang's relationship with Chinese dynasties fluctuated. During the Xia Dynasty, Taikang's loss of control led to barbarian rebellion, but later rulers like Houxiang and Houxie subdued them. Under the Yin Dynasty, Wuding conquered Xirong and Guifang, but Wu Yi's brutality provoked Dog Soldier invasions. The Zhou Dynasty saw King Wen and King Wu command Xirong, while King Mu campaigned against Quanrong. As Zhou weakened, Rong tribes invaded, leading to conflicts with Qin and Jin. During the Spring and Autumn period, Rong groups like Yiqu and Dali grew powerful, building cities and claiming kingship. Qin gradually absorbed them, with King Zhao of Qin destroying Yiqu in the 4th century BCE.

Chunk 22: 
original: 
滇零死，子零昌代立，年尚幼少，同种狼莫为其计策，以杜季贡为将军，别居于奚城。
七年夏，骑都尉马贤与侯霸掩击零昌别部牢羌于安定，首虏千人，得驴、骡、骆驼、马、牛、羊二万余头，以畀得者。
元初元年春，遣兵屯河内，通谷冲要三十三所，皆为坞壁，设鸣鼓。
零昌遣兵寇雍城，又号多与当煎、勒姐大豪共胁诸种，分兵抄掠武都、汉中。
巴郡板蛮将兵救之，汉中五官掾程信率壮士与蛮共击破之。号多退走，还断陇道，与零昌通谋。
侯霸、马贤将湟中吏人及降羌胡丁罕击之，斩首二百余级。
凉州刺史皮杨击羌于狄道，大败，死者八百余人，杨坐征免。
侯霸病卒，汉阳太守庞参代为校尉。
参以恩信招诱之。
二年春，号多等率众七千余人诣参降，遣诣阙，赐号多侯印绶遣之。
参始还居令居，通河西道。
而零昌种众复分寇益州，遣中郎将尹就将南阳兵，因发益部诸郡屯兵击零昌党吕叔都等。
至秋，蜀人陈省、罗横应募，刺杀叔都，皆封侯、赐钱。
又使屯骑校尉班雄屯三辅，遣左冯翊司马钧行征西将军，督右扶风仲光、安定太守杜恢、北地太守盛包、京兆虎牙都尉耿溥、右扶风都尉皇甫旗等，合八千余人，又庞参将羌胡兵七千余人，与钧分道，并北击零昌。
参兵至勇士东，为杜季贡所败，于是引退。
钧等独进，攻拔丁奚城，大克获。
杜季贡率众伪逃。钧令光、恢、包等收羌禾稼，光等违钧节度，散兵深入，羌乃设伏要击之。
钧在城中，怒而不救，光等并没，死者三千余人。
钧乃遁还，坐征自杀。
庞参以失期军败抵罪，以马贤代领校尉事。
后遣任尚为中郎将，将羽林、缇骑、五营子弟三千五百人，代班雄屯三辅。
translation: 
After Dian Ling's death, his son Lingchang succeeded to the throne. Lingchang was still young. The man langmo from the same tribe made suggestions for Lingchang. He appointed Du Jigong as general and lived in Dingxi City.
In the summer of the seventh year, the Cavalry Commander Ma Xian and Hou Ba attacked another group of Lao Qiang in Lingchang, An'ing, killing more than a thousand people, and obtained more than 20,000 donkeys, mules, camels, horses, cattle, sheep, etc., and gave them to the captured soldiers.
In the spring of the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, the imperial court sent troops to garrison Hanoi and opened up thirty-three important places in the valley. They built earthen barriers and set up bells and drums.
Lingchang sent troops to invade Yongcheng. In addition, Haoduo, together with the leaders of Dangjian and Lejie, coerced other tribes and divided their troops to loot Wudu and Mozhong.
Banmei Man of Bajun led troops to rescue Wudu and Hanzhong. Cheng Xin of Hanzhong Wuguanmen led the warriors and defeated the Qiang people together with the barbarians. Haoduo retreated, but turned back to cut off the road to Longxi and conspired with Lingchang.
Hou Ba and Ma Xian led the officials and people in Huangzhong as well as the surrendered Qiang and Hu people to attack Paohan and killed more than 200 people.
Pi Yang, the governor of Liangzhou, attacked the Qiang people in Didao, but was severely defeated and more than 800 people died. As a result, Pi Yang was summoned and dismissed.
Hou Ba died of illness, and Pang Shen, the governor of Hanyang, took over as the school captain.
Pang Shen recruited and lured the Qiang people with kindness and faith.
In the spring of the second year, Hao Duo and others led more than 7,000 tribesmen to surrender at Pang Shenna. Pang Shen sent Haoduo to the court, and the emperor gave Haoduo the seal of the marquis and asked him to go back.
Pang Shen then returned to live in Lingju and opened the road to Hexi.
However, Lingchang's Zhong tribe divided their forces to attack Yizhou. The imperial court sent Zhonglang General Yin Jiu to lead Nanyang's troops, and then mobilized troops from various counties in Yizhou to attack Lingchang's associates, Lu Shudu and others.
In the autumn, Chen Sheng and Luo Heng from Shu County responded to the recruitment and assassinated Lu Shudu. They were all made marquises and rewarded with money.
The imperial court also sent the garrison captain Ban Xiong to garrison the third auxiliary, and sent Feng Yi from the left and Sima Gou to march to the west general, commanding Fufeng Zhongguang on the right, Du Hui, the prefect of Anding, Sheng Bao, the prefect of Beidi, Geng Pu, the captain of Huya in Jingzhao, and Huangfu Qi, the captain of Fufeng on the right, totaling more than 8,000 people. In addition, Pang Shen led more than 7,000 Qiang and Hu soldiers to separate from Sima Jun and attack Lingchang to the north.
Pang Shen's army was defeated by Du Jigong, so he led his troops to retreat.
Only Sima Jun and others advanced and captured Dingxi City. They won a great victory and obtained many things.
Du Jigong led his troops to pretend to escape. Sima Jun ordered Zhongguang, Du Hui, Shengbao and others to harvest the Qiang crops. Zhongguang and others violated Sima Jun's control and dispatch, and the troops dispersed deeply. The Qiang people therefore set up an ambush to attack them.
Sima Jun was trapped in the city and was angry but refused to rescue him. Zhong Guang and others were all killed in the battle, and more than 3,000 people were killed.
Sima Gou then escaped and was drafted for committing a crime. Sima Gou committed suicide.
Pang Shen should be punished for missing the deadline and the army was defeated, and the court appointed Ma Xian as acting captain.
Later, Ren Shang was appointed as Zhonglang General, leading the Yulin Army, Tiqi, and the fifth battalion of 3,500 soldiers to replace Ban Xiong and garrison the third auxiliary.

summary:
summary line 2: Under the Han Dynasty, the Xiqiang faced expulsion and relocation. Emperor Wu expanded borders, building fortresses and separating Qiang from Xiongnu. In 42 BCE, Xianling Qiang allied with Xiongnu, attacking Lingju and Paohan, but were suppressed by General Li Xi. Later, Zhao Chongguo defeated them in 60 BCE. During Wang Mang's reign, Qiang lands were seized, but after his fall, they rebelled. In 25 CE, Guangwu restored the Qiang Protectorate, but conflicts persisted. Ma Yuan defeated Qiang rebellions in 35 CE, moving them to Tianshui and Longxi. By 58 CE, Dianwu's rebellion was crushed, and Qiang were resettled in Sanfu.

Chunk 24: 
original: 
任尚遣兵击破先零羌于丁奚城。
秋，筑冯翊北界候坞五百所。
任尚又遣假司马募陷陈士，击零昌于北地，杀其妻子，得牛、马、羊二万头，烧其庐落，斩首七百余级，得号文书及所没诸将印绶。
四年春，尚遣当阗种羌榆鬼等五人刺杀杜季贡，封榆鬼为破羌侯。
其夏，尹就以不能定益州，坐征抵罪。以益州刺史张乔领尹就军屯，招诱叛羌，稍稍降散。
秋，任尚复募效功种号封刺杀零昌，封号封为羌王。
冬，任尚将诸郡兵与马贤并进北地击狼莫，贤先至安定青石岸，狼莫逆击，败之。
会尚兵到高平，因合势俱进。狼莫等引退，乃转营迫之。至北地，相持六十余日，战于富平上河，大破之，斩首五千级还，得所略人男女千余人，牛、马、驴、羊、骆驼十余万头。狼莫逃走，于是西河虔人种羌万一千口诣邓遵降。
五年，邓遵募上郡全无种羌雕何等刺杀狼莫，赐雕何为羌侯，封遵武阳侯，三千户。
遵以太后从弟故，爵封优大。
任尚与遵争功，又诈增首级，受赇枉法，臧千万已上，槛车征弃市，没入田卢奴婢财物。
translation: 
Ren Shang sent troops to defeat the Xianling Qiang in Dingxi City.
In the autumn, 500 pavilions and earth forts were built on the northern border of Feng Yi.
Ren Shang also sent acting Sima to recruit soldiers who could charge into the battle, and attacked Lingchang in the north. He killed Ya Lingchang's wife and children, obtained 20,000 cattle, horses, and sheep, burned their tent villages, killed more than 700 people, and collected the documents of the Qiang people's arrogant names and the seals and ribbons of the generals they killed.
In the spring of the fourth year, Ren Shang sent Yu Gui, a Qiang from Dangtian, and five other people to assassinate Du Jigong. Yu Gui was named Po Qiang Hou.
In the summer of this year, Yin Jiu was called up for punishment because he failed to pacify Yizhou. The imperial court asked Zhang Qiao, the governor of Yizhou, to command Yin Jiu's garrison. Zhang Qiao summoned and persuaded the rebellious Qiang people, and the Qiang people gradually surrendered and dispersed.
In the autumn, Ren Shang once again recruited Haofeng, a man of meritorious service, to assassinate Lingchang, and Haofeng was granted the title of King of Qiang.
In winter, Ren Shang led troops from various counties to march to the north with Ma Xian to attack Lang Mo. Ma Xian first arrived at Anding Qingshi'an, where Lang Mo fought and defeated Ma Xian.
It happened that Ren Shang's troops arrived at Gaogan, so the two armies jointly advanced. Lang Mo and others retreated, so they moved the military camp to approach Lang Mo. When they arrived in Beidi, the two sides held a stalemate for more than 60 days. They fought on the river in Fuping, captured Lang Mo and killed the enemy. Five thousand people were able to return more than a thousand men and women who had been kidnapped by the Qiang people, and obtained more than 100,000 cattle, horses, donkeys, sheep, and camels. The wolves did not escape. At this time, 11,000 Qiang people from Xihe Qian people came to Deng Zun to surrender.
In the fifth year, Deng Zun recruited the Qiang Diao He and others from Shangjun to assassinate Lang Mo. The imperial court granted Diao He the title of Qiang Marquis, and Deng Zun was granted the title of Wuyang Marquis, with the title of 3,000 households.
Because Deng Zun was the cousin of the Queen Mother, he received many titles and generous rewards.
Ren Shang competed with Deng Zun for merit, falsely reported the number of Qiang heads, accepted bribes, violated the law, and embezzled more than 10 million yuan. He was conscripted to the capital in a prison car by the court and executed in a busy city. His fields, houses, slaves, and property were confiscated.

summary:
summary line 3: The Qiang continued to resist Han rule. In 77 CE, Miwu led a revolt, defeating Han forces. Fu Yu, the Qiang Protector, was killed in 87 CE. Zhang Yu retaliated by poisoning Qiang leaders, but Miwu's son Mitang continued raids. Deng Xun and later officials used bribery to divide the Qiang, but conflicts resumed. In 107 CE, the Qiang rebellion under Dianling and others devastated border regions, costing billions and causing massive displacement. Ren Shang and Deng Zun campaigned against them, but corruption and mismanagement plagued efforts. By 118 CE, the Qiang were largely subdued, though sporadic revolts occurred.

Chunk 33: 
original: 
兴平元年，冯翊降羌反，寇诸县，郭汜、樊稠击破之，斩首数千级。
自爰剑后，子孙支分，凡百五十种。
其九种在赐支河首以西，及在蜀、汉徼北，前史不载口数。
唯参狼在武都，胜兵数千人。
其五十二种衰少，不能自立，分散为附落，或绝灭无后，或引而远去。
其八十九种，唯钟最强，胜兵十余万。
其余大者万余人，小者数千人，更相抄盗，盛衰无常，无虑顺帝时胜兵合可二十万人。
发羌、唐旄等绝远，未尝往来。
牛、白马羌在蜀、汉，其种别名号，皆不可纪知也。
建武十三年，广汉塞外白马羌豪楼登等率种人五千余户内属，光武封楼登为归义君长。
至和帝永元六年，蜀郡徼外大牂夷种羌豪造头等率种人五十余万口内属，拜造头为邑君长，赐印绶。
至安帝永初元年，蜀郡徼外羌龙桥等六种万七千二百八十口内属。
明年，蜀郡徼外羌薄申等八种三万六千九百口复举土内属。
冬，广汉塞外参狼种羌二千四百口复来内属。
桓帝建和二年，白马羌千余人寇广汉属国，杀长吏，益州刺史率板蛮讨破之。
湟中月氏胡，其先大月氏之别也，旧在张掖、酒泉地。
月氏王为匈奴冒顿所杀，余种分散，西逾葱领。
其羸弱者南入山阻，依诸羌居止，遂与共婚姻。
及骠骑将军霍去病破匈奴，取西河地，开湟中，于是月氏来降，与汉人错居。
translation: 
In the first year of Xingnuo, the Qiang people who surrendered under Feng Xiang rebelled and invaded various counties. Guo Bang and Fan Chou defeated them and killed thousands of Qiang people.
Since Yuan Ren, his descendants have divided into a total of 150 tribes.
Among them, nine tribes are located west of the head of the Cizhi River and north of the border between Shu and Han. Their population numbers are not recorded in previous history books.
Only Shenlang Qiang is in Wudu and has thousands of men capable of fighting.
There are fifty-two tribes that are weak and have few people and cannot be independent. They are scattered into subordinate tribes. Some of them have completely declined and have no descendants, and some have moved away.
Among its eighty-nine tribes, only Zhong Qiang is the most powerful, with more than 100,000 people capable of fighting.
Other tribes range in size from tens of thousands to thousands. They plunder and invade each other, and their strength and decline are ever-changing. During the reign of Emperor Shun, the total number of Qiang people capable of fighting was approximately 200,000.
The Faqiang, Tangyan and other tribes were very far away and had no contact with them.
The names of the tribes of Li Niu and Baima Qiang in Shu and Han cannot be known or recorded.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Lou Deng, leader of the Baima Qiang outside the Great Wall of Guanghan, and others led more than 5,000 Qiang households of his tribe to surrender to the imperial court. Guangwu granted Lou Deng the title of Lord Commander of Guiyi.
In the fifth and sixth year of Emperor He's reign, Zaotou and others, a fat Yi Qiang leader outside the borders of Shu County, led more than 500,000 people of the same tribe to surrender to the imperial court. Emperor He appointed Zaotou as the chief of the city and gave him a seal.
By the first year of Yongchu reign of Emperor An, 17,280 people from six tribes including Longqiao and other Qiang tribes outside the borders of Shushu had surrendered to the imperial court.
The next year, 36,900 people from eight tribes including the Qiang Bo Shen outside the borders of Shu County surrendered the entire area to the imperial court.
In winter, 2,400 Qiang people from the Shenlang tribe outside the Guanghan border came to submit to the imperial court.
In the second year of Emperor Huan's establishment of peace, more than a thousand Baima Qiang invaded the Guanghan vassal state and killed county officials. The Yizhou governor led the Banchu barbarians to defeat the invading Baima Qiang.
The Yuezhi Hu in Huangzhong was originally another branch of the Da Yuezhi. Was it retreating in the past? Leg area resides.
King Yuezhi was killed by Bao Shuandun, and the remaining tribes dispersed and crossed Congling to the west.
Among them, the weak ones went south into the mountains, lived among the Qiang tribes, and intermarried with the Qiang people.
When Husband General Huo Qubing defeated the Xiongnu, captured the Xihe area, and opened up Huangzhong, the Yuezhi came to surrender and lived mixed with the Han people.

summary:
summary line 4: In later years, the Qiang faced further suppression. Ma Xian defeated them in 141 CE, but his death in battle in 144 CE led to renewed chaos. Zhao Chong and others campaigned, but the Qiang declined by the 2nd century CE. During the Han dynasty's decline, Qiang allied with Yellow Turban rebels in 184 CE. By the 3rd century CE, the Qiang had fragmented into 150 tribes, with the Zhong Qiang being the most powerful, fielding over 100,000 warriors. The Yuezhi Hu, a related group, intermarried with Qiang and lived in Huangzhong.

Chunk 34: 
original: 
虽依附县官，而首施两端。其从汉兵战斗，随势强弱。
被服饮食言语略与羌同，亦以父名母姓为种。
其大种有七，胜兵合九千余人，分在湟中及令居。
又数百户在张掖，号曰义从胡。
中平元年，与北宫伯玉等反，杀护羌校尉泠征、金城太守陈懿，遂寇乱陇右焉。
论曰：羌戎之患，自三代尚矣。
汉世方之匈奴，颇为衰寡，而中兴以后，边难渐大。
朝规失绥御之和，戎师骞然诺之信。
其内属者，或倥偬之豪右之手，或屈折于奴仆之勤。
塞候时清，则愤怒而思祸；桴革暂动，则属鞬以鸟惊。
故永初之间，群种蜂起。
遂解仇嫌，结盟诅，招引山豪，转相啸聚，揭木为兵，负柴为械。
毂马扬埃，陆梁于三辅；建号称制，恣睢于北地。
东犯赵、魏之郊，南入汉、蜀之鄙，塞湟中，断陇道，烧陵园，剽城市，伤败踵系，羽书日闻。
并、凉之士，特冲残毙，壮悍则委身于兵场，女妇则徽纆而为虏，发冢露胔，死生涂炭。
自西戎作逆，未有陵斥上国若斯其炽也。
和熹以女君亲政，威不外接。朝议惮兵力之损，情存苟安。
translation: 
Although they relied on the imperial court, they hesitated to wait and see. They followed the Han army to fight, and their fighting intensity also changed with the strength of the Han army's situation.
Their clothing, food, and language are roughly the same as those of the Qiang people, and they also use their father's name and mother's surname as tribal titles.
There are seven large tribes, and the total number of those who can fight is more than 9,000, distributed in Huangzhong and Lingju.
There are still hundreds of households in Zhangye, called Yiconghu.
In the first year of Zhongping, they rebelled with Beigong Boyu and others, killing Ling Zheng, the captain of the Qiang Protector, and Chen Yi, the prefect of Jincheng, and then invaded Longyou to cause chaos.
On Japan: The Qiang and Rong have been causing harm for a long time since the third generation.
During the Han Dynasty, they were quite weak compared to the Xiongnu, but after the Guangwu Zhongxing, their harm to the border gradually became serious.
The imperial court made mistakes in appeasing, governing and harmonizing the Qiang and Rong, and the army generals also violated their promises and trustworthiness.
Some of the Qiang people who surrendered to the imperial court fell into poverty and embarrassment in the hands of the powerful, and some were forced to work as slaves and do manual labor.
Sometimes when the border reconnaissance is peaceful, they will be angry and try to cause chaos; once drums and drums and military revolution suddenly arise, they will hang their quivers and panic like birds.
Therefore, during the Yongchu period, the various tribes of the Qiang people protruded like a swarm of bees.
So they resolved their hatreds, made alliances and swore an oath, attracted powerful people from the mountains, and then greeted each other and gathered together, holding up trees as weapons and carrying firewood as shields.
The military chariots and war horses raised dust and ran rampant in the Sanfu area; they usurped the name of the emperor and wreaked havoc in the north.
They invaded the suburbs of Zhao and Wei to the east, entered the borders of Han and Shu to the south, blocked Huangzhong, cut off the road to Longxi, burned cemeteries, and plundered the city. News of casualties and defeats continued, and urgent documents were sent to the court every day.
The scholars in Bingzhou and Liangzhou were particularly tortured and killed. The able-bodied men were committed to the battlefield, while the women were tied up and made prisoners. Tombs were dug up, corpses were exposed, and both the dead and the living were destitute.
Since the rebellion of Xirong, no great country has been invaded and bullied so cruelly.
Queen Hexi was in charge of the government as a female protagonist and did not interact with foreign countries. The opinions in the court were afraid of losing troops and wanted to live in peace.

summary:
summary line 5: The text concludes that the Qiang's persistent harm stemmed from Han mismanagement, including broken promises and exploitation. The Yongchu period saw widespread rebellion, with Qiang plundering Sanfu and cutting off Longxi. Despite costly campaigns by generals like Deng Lu and Ren Shang, the Han failed to achieve lasting peace. The author criticizes the policy of relocating Qiang into Han territory, which exacerbated conflicts. Ultimately, the Qiang were suppressed by Duan Yi, but the Han dynasty's decline followed. The narrative emphasizes the cyclical nature of Qiang-Han relations, marked by rebellion, suppression, and eventual fragmentation.

