Chunk 0: 
original: 
西羌之本，出自三苗，姜姓之别也。
其国近南岳。
及舜流四凶，徙之三危，河关之西南羌地是也。滨于赐支，至乎河首，绵地千里。
赐支者，《禹贡》所谓析支者也。
南接蜀、汉徼外蛮夷，西北接鄯善、车师诸国。
所居无常，依随水草。
地少五谷，以产牧为业。
其俗氏族无定，或以父名母姓为种号。
十二世后，相与婚姻，父没则妻后母，兄亡则纳嫂，故国无鳏寡，种类繁炽。
不立君臣，无相长一，强则分种为酋豪，弱则为人附落，更相抄暴，以力为雄。
杀人偿死，无它禁令。
其兵长在山谷，短于平地，不能持久，而果于触突，以战死为吉利，病终为不祥。
堪耐寒苦，同之禽兽。
虽妇人产子，亦不避风雪。
translation: 
Xiqiang originally came from Sanmiao, another branch of the Jiang surname.
The Western Qiang Kingdom is close to Nanyue.
When Shun exiled four stubborn people, he exiled them to Sanwei, which is the Qiang area southwest of Heguan. This area is wrapped around the Cizhi River and stretches for thousands of miles to the head of Cizhi River.
The gift branch is the analysis branch mentioned in "Yu Gong".
This area borders the barbarians outside the borders of Shu and Han to the south, and borders Shanshan, Cheshi and other countries to the northwest.
The Xiqiang people do not have fixed residences. They migrate with water and grass.
Grains are rarely grown on this land, and they mainly rely on livestock raising.
The custom of Xiqiang is that clans are not fixed. Some clans use the father's name and the mother's surname as the title of their tribe.
After the twelfth generation, clans intermarry with each other. After the father dies, he marries his stepmother, and after his elder brother dies, he marries his widower. Therefore, there are no widowers or widows in the Xiqiang country, and the population reproduces quickly.
Xiqiang does not have a king or ministers, and no one is its leader. If the power is strong, they will separate into races and become chiefs. If the power is weak, they will become subordinate tribes of others. They plundered and invaded each other, ruling the roost with violence.
Kill for life, there is no other prohibition.
The soldiers of Xiqiang are good at fighting in the valleys, but not on the plains; they cannot fight for a long time, but they dare to charge into battle; they regard death in battle as auspicious, while death from illness is considered unlucky.
The Xiqiang people can endure cold and hardship just like animals.
Even when women give birth to children, they do not hide from the wind and snow.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
性坚刚勇猛，得西方金行之气焉。
王政修则宾服，德教失则寇乱。
昔夏后氏太康失国，西夷背叛。
及后相即位，乃征畎夷，七年然后来宾。
至于后泄，始加爵命，由是服从。
后桀之乱，畎夷入居邠、岐之间，成汤既兴，伐而攘之。
及殷室中衰，诸夷皆叛。
至于武丁，征西戎、鬼方，三年乃克。
故其诗曰： 自彼氐羌，莫敢不来王。
及武乙暴虐，犬戎寇边，周古公逾梁山而避于岐下。
及子季历，遂伐西落鬼戎。
太丁之时，季历复伐燕京之戎，戎人大败周师。
后二年，周人克余无之戎，于是太丁命季历为牧师。
自是之后，更伐始呼、翳徒之戎，皆克之。
translation: 
The Xiqiang people are strong and brave in fighting for the land, and they have accepted the energy of the metal element in the five elements and the west.
If the emperor's government is clear and clear, the barbarians will surrender; if the emperor loses virtue and education, the barbarians will invade and cause chaos.
In the past, Taikang, the king of the Xia Dynasty, lost the world and all the barbarians rebelled.
When the later prime minister came to the throne, he conquered the Yiyi. Seven years later, the Yiyi came to submit.
After Houxie, the title of nobility was added to Ruyi, and Ruyi obeyed the Xia Dynasty from then on.
When Hou Jie was in turmoil, the Yi people came to live in the Linqi area. After the rise of Chengtang, he conquered the Yiyi and made them retreat.
When the Yin Dynasty weakened in the middle period, all barbarians rebelled.
When Wuding arrived, he conquered Xirong and Guifang, and it took three years to conquer them.
So the poem says: Since the time of Di Qiang, no one has dared not to come to pay homage to the Emperor.
When Wu Yi was brutal and cruel, and the dog soldiers invaded the border, Zhou Gugong Yi's father crossed Liangshan and took refuge at the foot of Qishan Mountain.
At the time of his son Ji Li, he conquered the Xiluo Guirong.
During the reign of Taiding, Ji Li attacked the Rong tribe in Yanjing, and the Rong tribe defeated Zhou's army.
Two years later, when Zhou's troops defeated Yu Wu's Rong tribe, Taiding appointed Ji Li as priest.
From then on, Ji Li attacked the Rong tribe of Shihu and Yitu, and won both of them.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
乃文王为西伯，西有昆夷之患，北有猃狁之难，遂攘戎狄而戍之，莫不宾服。
乃率西戎，征殷之叛国以事纣。
及武王伐商，羌、髳率师会于牧野。
至穆王时，戎狄不贡，王乃西征犬戎，获其五王，又得四白鹿，四白狼，王遂迁戎于太原。
夷王衰弱，荒服不朝，乃命虢公率六师伐太原之戎，至于俞泉，获马千匹。
厉王无道，戎狄寇掠，乃入犬丘，杀秦仲之族。王命伐戎，不克。
及宣王立四年，使秦仲伐戎，为戎所杀。
王乃召秦仲子庄公，与兵七千人伐戎，破之，由是少却。
后二十七年，王遣兵伐太原戎，不克。
后五年，王伐条戎、奔戎，王师败绩。
后二年，晋人败北戎于汾隰，戎人灭姜侯之邑。
明年，王征申戎，破之。
后十年，幽王命伯士伐六济之戎，军败，伯士死焉。
其年，戎围犬丘，虏秦襄公之兄伯父。
时幽王昏虐，四夷交侵，遂废申后而立褒姒。
申侯怒，与戎寇周，杀幽王于郦山，周乃东迁洛邑，秦襄公攻戎救周。
后二年，邢侯大破北戎。
及平王之末，周遂陵迟，戎逼诸夏，自陇山以东，及乎伊、洛，往往有戎。
于是渭首有狄、豸原、邽、冀之戎，泾北有义渠之戎，洛川有大荔之戎，渭南有骊戎，伊、洛间有杨拒、泉皋之戎，颍首以西有蛮氏之戎。
当春秋时，间在中国，与诸夏盟会。
鲁庄公伐秦，取邽、冀之戎。
translation: 
When King Wen was appointed as the Western Bodhisattva, there were Kun barbarians to the west of the Zhou Dynasty, and there were dangers to the north from the Ming dynasties. So King Wen repulsed the Rong and Di and garrisoned troops there, and all of the Rong and Di surrendered.
King Wen then commanded the Xirong and conquered the countries that had betrayed the Yin and Shang dynasties to serve King Zhou.
When King Wu attacked Shang, the Qiang people and Zhang Ren led their troops to meet in Muye.
At the time of King Mu, the Rongdi did not pay tribute to the Zhou Dynasty. King Mu then marched westward against the Quanrong, captured the five kings of the Quanrong, and obtained four white deer and four white wolves. King Mu then moved the Rong people to Taiyuan.
During the reign of King Yi, the Zhou Dynasty was weak and the Rong people from the outlying areas did not come to worship. The emperor ordered Duke Guo to lead a division of six armies to attack the Rong people in Taiyuan as far as Yuquan and obtained a thousand horses.
King Li was cruel, and the Rong and Di invaded and plundered. He even entered Quanqiu and killed Qin Zhong's family. The emperor ordered to conquer the Rong people, but they could not win.
In the fourth year after King Xuan succeeded to the throne, he sent Qin Zhong to attack the Rong people, but Qin Zhong was killed by the Rong people.
The emperor then summoned Duke Zhuang, son of Qin Zhong, and gave him seven thousand troops to conquer the Rong people. He defeated the Rong people, and the Rong people retreated slightly.
Twenty-seven years later, the emperor sent an army to attack the Rong people in Taiyuan, but could not win.
Five years later, the emperor conquered Tiao Rong and Ben Rong, and the emperor's army was defeated by the Rong people.
Two years later, the Jin people defeated the Beirong at Xiaxi by the Fen River. The Rong people also destroyed Jianghou's fiefdom.
The next year, the emperor conquered Shen Rong and defeated him.
Ten years later, King You ordered Bo Shi to conquer the Rong people in Liuji. As a result, the army was defeated and Bo Shi died there.
This year, the Rong people surrounded Quanqiu and captured Qin Xianggong's brother and uncle.
At that time, King You was fatuous and cruel, and barbarians from all directions invaded alternately. As a result, King You deposed Queen Shen and made Bao Si the queen.
The Marquis of Shen was angry, so he invaded the Zhou Dynasty with his troops and killed King You in Mount Li. Zhou then moved eastward to Luoyi, and Qin Xianggong attacked the Rong people to rescue the Zhou Dynasty.
Two years later, Xinghou defeated Beirong.
By the end of King Ping's reign, the Zhou Dynasty finally weakened. The Rong people are approaching the Central Plains, and there are Rong people everywhere from Longshan to the east to Yishui and Luoshui.
At this time, there were the armies of Di, Xi, Bang, and Ji in the upper reaches of the Wei River, the Rong of Yiqu in the north of the Jing River, the Rong of Dali in the Luo River, the Li Rong in the south bank of the Wei River, the Rong of Yang Ju and Quan Gao in the upper reaches of the Yishui River, and the Rong of Manshi in the west of the upper reaches of the Ying River.
During the Spring and Autumn Period, Rong people occasionally entered the Central Plains and participated in alliances with various Chinese countries.
Duke Zhuang of Lu attacked Qin and captured the state and the army of Ji.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
后十余岁，晋灭骊戎。是时，伊、洛戎强，东侵曹、鲁。后十九年，遂入王城。于是秦、晋伐戎以救周。
后二年，又寇京师，齐桓公征诸侯戍周。
后九年，陆浑戎自瓜州迁于伊川，允姓戎迁于渭汭，东及辕。
在河南山北者号曰阴戎，阴戎之种遂以滋广。
晋文公欲修霸业，乃赂戎狄通道，以匡王室。
秦穆公得戎人由余，遂霸西戎，开地千里。
及晋悼公，又使魏绛和诸戎，复修霸业。
是时，楚、晋强盛，威服诸戎，陆浑、伊、洛、阴戎事晋，而蛮氏从楚。
后陆浑叛晋，晋令荀吴灭之。
后四十四年，楚执蛮氏而尽囚其人。
是时义渠、大荔最强，筑城数十，皆自称王。
至周贞王八年，秦厉公分灭大荔，取其地。
赵亦灭代戎，即北戎也。
韩、魏复共稍并伊、洛、阴戎，灭之。
其遗脱者皆逃走，西逾、陇。
translation: 
More than ten years later, Jin lost Li Rong. At this time, Yi and Luo Zhirong became stronger and invaded Cao and Lu eastward. Nineteen years later, they finally entered the capital of the emperor. So Qin and Jin attacked the Rong people to rescue the emperor of Zhou.
Two years later, the Rong invaded the capital again. Duke Huan of Qi fine-tuned the troops of the princely states to garrison in Zhou.
Nine years later, Lu Hunrong moved from Guazhou to Yichuan, and Yunrong moved to the Weishui and Youshui areas, and he arrived in Nanyuan with his face tied.
Those south of the Yellow River and north of the mountains are called Yinrong, and the Yinrong race multiplies more and more.
Duke Wen of Jin wanted to establish his hegemony, so he bribed Rong Di and asked them to open a road to assist the emperor of Zhou.
Duke Mugong of Qin got the rest of the Rong people and finally dominated Xirong and opened up thousands of miles of land.
At the time of Duke Mourning of the Jin Dynasty, Wei Jiang was sent to make peace with the Rong and once again established his hegemony.
At this time, Chu and Jin were very powerful and used their power to make the Rong obey. Lu Hun, Yi, Luo, and Yin Rong served Jin, but the Man clan followed Chu.
Later, Lu Hun betrayed the Jin State, and the Jin State sent Xun Wu to eliminate Lu Hun.
Forty-four years later, the Chu State captured the Man clan and imprisoned them all.
At this time, Yiqu and Dali were the most powerful, building dozens of cities and calling themselves kings.
In the eighth year of King Zhen of Zhou, Duke Li of Qin destroyed Dali and occupied Dali's territory.
The State of Zhao also destroyed Dai Rong, which was Beirong.
Han and Wei gradually annexed Yi, Luo Zhirong and Yin Rong and eliminated them.
Those Rong people who slipped through the net all fled westward over the Pishan and Longshan mountains.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
自是中国无戎寇，唯余义渠种焉。
至贞王二十五年，秦伐义渠，虏其王。
后十四年，义渠侵秦至渭阴。
后百许年，义渠败秦师于洛。
后四年，义渠国乱，秦惠王遣庶长操将兵定之，义渠遂臣于秦。
后八年，秦伐义渠，取郁郅。
后二年，义渠败秦师于李伯。
明年，秦伐义渠，取徒泾二十五城。
及昭王立，义渠王朝秦，遂与昭王母宣太后通，生二子。
至王赧四十三年，宣太后诱杀义渠王于甘泉宫，因起兵灭之，始置陇西、北地、上郡焉。
戎本无君长，夏后氏末及商周之际，或从侯伯征伐有功，天子爵之，以为籓服。
春秋时，陆浑、蛮氏戎称子。战国世，大荔、义渠称王。及其衰亡，余种皆反旧为酋豪云。
羌无弋爰剑者，秦厉公时为秦所拘执，以为奴隶。
不知爰剑何戎之别也。
后得亡归，而秦人追之急，藏于岩穴中得免。
translation: 
Since then, no Rong people have invaded the Central Plains, leaving only the Yiqu Rong tribe.
In the twenty-fifth year of King Zhen's reign, Qin attacked Yiqu and captured King Yiqu.
Fourteen years later, Yiqu invaded Qin and reached the south bank of the Wei River.
More than a hundred years later, Yiqu defeated the Qin army in Luoshui.
Four years later, war broke out in Yiqu. King Qin Hui sent his concubine Chang Cao to lead the army to pacify Yiqu. From then on, Yiqu became a vassal of Qin.
Eight years later, Qin attacked Yiqu and occupied Yuzhi.
Two years later, Yiqu defeated the Qin army at Li Bo.
The next year, Qin attacked Yiqu and captured twenty-five cities in Tujing.
When King Zhao of Qin succeeded to the throne, the Yiqu Dynasty met King Qin and had an affair with King Zhao's mother, Queen Mother Xuan, and gave birth to two sons.
Forty-three years to King Nan of Zhou Dynasty. Empress Dowager Xuan trapped and killed King Yiqu in Ganquan Palace, then sent troops to destroy the Yi orangs, and began to set up Sui Ning, Li Ning and Shang Deng there.
The Rong people originally had no kings and leaders. In the late Shumu years, at the turn of Hu and Er, some Rong people followed the princes and mubos in the battles and made meritorious service. The emperor granted them titles and became vassal states.
During the Zhoutang period, Luo Yun Rong and Man clan Rong were called sons. During the Warring States period, Dali and Yiqu were called kings. When the Rong clan declined and perished, the remaining Rong people all resumed their former title of chief.
The Qiang people were unyielding and were captured by the Qin State during the reign of Duke Li of Qin and became slaves.
I don’t know which Rong tribe Yuan Yi belongs to.
Later, Xingren was able to escape, but the Qin people pursued him closely, so he hid in a cave and escaped.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
羌人云爰剑初藏穴中，秦人焚之，有景象如虎，为其蔽火，得以不死。
既出，又与劓女遇于野，遂成夫妇。
女耻其状，被发覆面，羌人因以为俗，遂俱亡入三河间。
诸羌见爰剑被焚不死，怪其神，共畏事之，推以为豪，河湟间少五谷，多禽兽，以射猎为事，爰剑教之田畜，遂见敬信，庐落种人依之者日益众。
羌人谓奴为无弋，以爰剑尝为奴隶，故因名之。
其后世世为豪。
至爰剑曾孙忍时，秦献公初立，欲复穆公之迹，兵临渭首，灭狄豸原戎。
忍季父畏秦之威，将其种人附落而南，出赐支河曲西数千里，与众羌绝远，不复交通。
其后子孙分别，各自为种，任随所之。
translation: 
The messenger said that Miao Xing was hiding in a cave and wrapping his face, and Tongken people burned him with fire. Something like a tiger blocked the fire for Yuan Ren, and Yuan Ren was able to survive.
After escaping, he met the woman whose nose had been cut off in the wild, and they got married.
The woman felt ashamed of her appearance, so she let her hair cover her face. Therefore, the Qiang people made it a custom to wear their hair. Yuanren and his wife fled together to the three rivers.
The Qiang people were surprised to see that Yuan Ren was not burned to death. They thought that Yuan Ren was a god. They all respected him, served him, and elected him as their chieftain. The Yellow River and Huangshui areas are short of grain and have many animals, so the Qiang people make hunting their main occupation. Yuan Ren taught the Qiang people to farm and raise livestock, and finally gained the respect and trust of the Qiang people. The number of messengers from the tribe who defected to him increased day by day.
The Qiang people called Nu "Wu Yi". Because Yuan Ren had been a slave, they called him "Wu Yi".
Since then, Yuan Ren's descendants have been the leaders of the Qiang people for generations.
By the time of Yuan Chi's great-grandson Mo, Duke Tong Fu had just succeeded to the throne. Duke Xu wanted to restore the achievements of Duke Mu of Qin, so he sent troops to reach the upper reaches of Chengcheng and wiped out Di Maungrong.
Ren's uncle Yin was afraid of the power of Qin, so he led his tribe and affiliated tribes southward, out of the meander of the Cizhi River, and then westward for thousands of miles. He was far away from other Qiang tribes and no longer had any contact with them.
Their descendants separated and became tribes, and they moved wherever they pleased.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
或为牛种，越巂羌是也；或为白马种，广汉羌是也；或为参狼种，武都羌是也。
忍及弟舞独留湟中，并多娶妻妇。
忍生九子为九种，舞生十七子为十七种，羌之兴盛，从此起矣。
及忍子研立，时秦孝公雄强，威服羌戎。
孝公使太子驷率戎狄九十二国朝周显王。
研至豪健，故羌中号其后为研种。
及秦始皇时，务并六国，以诸侯为事，兵不西行，故种人得以繁息。
秦既兼天下，使蒙恬将兵略地，西逐诸戎，北却众狄，筑长城以界之，众羌不服南度。
至于汉兴，匈奴冒顿兵强，破东胡，走月氏，威震百蛮，臣服诸羌。
景帝时，研种留何率种人求守陇西塞，于是徙留何等于狄道、安故，至临洮、氐道、羌道县。
及武帝征伐四夷，开地广境，北却匈奴，西逐诸羌，乃度河、湟，筑令居塞、初开河西，列置四郡，通道玉门，隔绝羌胡，使南北不得交关。
于是障塞亭燧出长城外数千里。
translation: 
Some become yak species, which are poor in crossing mountains; some become white horse species, which are poor in huts; some become silver carps, which are poor in far-out tunnels.
Mo and his younger brother Wu stayed alone in Huangzhong and married many wives.
The nine sons born to Ren became the nine races, and the seventeen sons born to Wu became the seventeen races. The prosperity of the Qiang people began at this time.
When Ren's son Yan succeeded to the throne, Qin Xiaogong became powerful and dominated, and used force to make the Qiang Rong obey.
Duke Xiao of Qin sent Prince Si to lead ninety-two Rong Di Kingdoms to pay homage to King Zhou Xian.
Yan is very strong, so the Qiang people call the descendants of Qiang Yanzhong.
By the time of Qin Shihuang, the Qin State was bent on annexing the six kingdoms and was busy fighting against the princes. The army did not go westward, so the Qiang people were able to thrive.
After the Qin State annexed the world, it sent Meng Tian to lead the army to capture the land, expel the Rong tribe to the west, drive back the Di tribe to the north, and build the Great Wall to block the Qiang and Di tribes. The Qiang people never crossed south again.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, the Xiongnu Maodun had a strong army, defeated the Donghu, drove away the Yuezhi, and shocked the barbarians and made the Qiang people surrender.
During the reign of Emperor Jing, Yanzhong Liuhe led his tribe and requested to guard the Longxi frontier fortress, so he moved Liuhe and others to Didao and Angu, and some moved to Lintao, Didao and Qiangdao counties.
By the time Emperor Wu conquered the barbarians, he opened up the country, expanded the country's borders, defeated the Xiongnu to the north, and expelled the Qiang to the west. He then crossed the Yellow River and Huangshui River and built Lingju fortress. He began to open up the Hexi Corridor, set up four counties, and opened the road to Yumen Pass, which separated the Qiang and Hu people, so that the Qiang and Hu people could not collude in the north and south.
During the war, the castles and beacon towers of the frontier fortress stretched thousands of miles beyond the Great Wall.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
时先零羌与封养牢姐种解仇结盟，与匈奴通，合兵十余万，共攻令居、安故，遂围罕。
汉遣将军李息、郎中令徐自为将兵十万人击平之。
始置护羌校尉，持节统领焉。
羌乃去湟中，依西海、盐池左右。
汉遂因山为寒，河西地空，稍徙人以实之。
至宣帝时，遣光禄大夫义渠安国觇行诸羌，其先零种豪言： 愿得度湟水，逐人所不田处以为畜牧。
安国以事奏闻，后将军赵充国以为不可听。
后因缘前言，遂度湟水，郡县不能禁。
至元康三年，先零乃与诸羌大共盟誓，将欲寇边。
帝闻，复使安国将兵观之。
安国至，召先零豪四十余人斩之，因放兵击其种，斩首千余级。
于是诸羌怨怒，遂寇金城。
乃遣赵充国与诸将将兵六万人击破平之。
translation: 
At that time, the Xianling Qiang and Fengyang Laojie settled their grievances, formed an alliance, colluded with the Xiongnu, and gathered more than 100,000 troops to attack Lingju and Angu together, and then surrounded Paohan.
The Han Dynasty sent General Li Xi and Lang Zhongling Xu Ziwei with 100,000 troops to attack and put down the invaders.
The imperial court began to set up captains to protect the Qiang and lead the Qiang people with integrity.
Only then did the Qiang people leave Huangzhong and live near the West Sea and Yanchi.
The Han Dynasty relied on the mountains as a barrier and the Hexi area was empty and deserted. The court gradually moved the population to enrich Hexi.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, Yiqu Anguo, the Guanglu doctor, was sent to inspect various Qiang tribes. The first Ling Qiang chieftain said: "I hope I can cross the Huangshui River and go to places where people do not farm to graze their cattle."
Anguo reported the matter to the court, but the later general Zhao Chongguo thought he could not agree.
In the future, because of the previous words, the Qiang people will cross the Huangshui River, and the counties will be unable to stop them.
In the third year of Yuankang, Xianling Qiang formed a large-scale alliance with various Qiang tribes and swore an oath to invade the border.
After the emperor found out, he sent Sere to lead an army to observe the movements of the Qiang people.
As soon as Anguo arrived, he summoned more than forty chiefs of the Xianling Qiang and killed them. Then he allowed his troops to attack the Xianling Qiang and killed more than a thousand people.
In this way, all the Qiang people were resentful and angry, so they invaded Jincheng.
The imperial court sent Zhao Chongguo and other generals to lead 60,000 troops to attack the Qiang people, and defeated and put down the police.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
至研十三世孙烧当立。
元帝时，彡姐等七种羌寇陇西，遣右将军冯奉世击破降之。
从爰剑种五世至研，研最豪健，自后以研为种号。
十三世至烧当，复豪健，其子孙更以烧当为种号。
自彡姐羌降之后数十年，四夷宾服，边塞无事。
至王莽辅政，欲燿威德，以怀远为名，乃令译讽旨诸羌，使共献西海之地，初开以为郡，筑五县，边海亭燧相望焉。
滇良者，烧当之玄孙也。
时王莽末，四夷内侵，及莽败，众羌遂还据西海为寇。
更始、赤眉之际，羌遂放纵，寇金城、陇西。
隗嚣虽拥兵而不能讨之，乃就慰纳，因发其众与汉相拒。
translation: 
Sun Shaodang, the thirteenth generation of Yan, succeeded to the throne.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, seven Qiang tribes including Xiangjie invaded Longxi. The imperial court sent right general Feng Fengshi to defeat the Qiang people and make them surrender.
From the fifth generation of Yuanren to Yan, Yan was the strongest. From then on, the Qiang people used Yan as their tribal title.
Thirteen generations later, Shaodang was passed down to Shaodang. Shaodang was strong and strong, and the descendants of Shaodang took Shaodang as their tribal name.
In the decades since the surrender of Xiangjie Qiang, barbarians from all over the world have surrendered, and no war has occurred on the border.
When Wang Mang assisted the government, he wanted to show off his force and virtue, and under the pretext of pacifying the remote areas, he asked the translator to tell the Qiang people to donate their land in the West Sea. Then he began to open up the West Sea area into a county and built five counties. The beacon towers on the border and the West Sea can see each other.
Dian Liang is the great-great-grandson of Shaodang.
In the last years of Wang Mang's reign, barbarians from all directions invaded the interior. After Wang Mang's defeat, various Qiang tribes returned to occupy the West Sea and become bandits.
At the time of Gengshi and Chimei, the Qiang people indulged themselves and invaded Jincheng and Longxi.
Although Weixiao had an army, he was unable to attack the Qiang people, so he sent people to comfort and accept them, and took the opportunity to recruit the Qiang people to fight against the Han people.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
建武九年，隗嚣死，司徒掾班彪上言： 今凉州部皆有降羌，羌胡被发左衽，而与汉人杂处，习俗既异，言语不通。数为小吏黠人所见侵夺，穷恚无聊，故致反叛。
夫蛮夷寇乱，皆为此也。
旧制：益州部署蛮夷骑都尉，幽州部署领乌桓校尉，凉州部署护羌校尉，皆持节领护，理其怨结，岁时循行，问所疾苦。
又数遣使驿通动静，使塞外羌夷为吏耳目，州郡因此可得儆备。
今宜复如旧，以明威防。
光武从之，即以牛邯为护羌校尉，持节如旧。
及邯卒而职省。
十年，先零豪与诸种相结，复寇金城、陇西，遣中郎将来歙等击之，大破。事已具《歙传》。
十一年夏，先零种复寇临洮，陇西太守马援破降之。
translation: 
In the ninth year of Jianwu's reign, Kui Xiao died. Situ sent Ban Biao to report: Nowadays, many Qiang people in the Liangzhou governor's department have surrendered. The Qiang and Hu people wear their hair down and their clothes turn to the left, and they live mixed with the Han people. Their customs are different and their language is blocked. They have been bullied and robbed many times by petty officials and cunning people. They are poor, resentful, and have no support, so they rebel.
Barbarian invasions and rebellions are all due to this reason.
The previous system was that the Yizhou Ministry set up the barbarian cavalry captain, the Youzhou Ministry set up the Wuhuan captain, and the Liangzhou ministry set up the Qiang protection captain. They all held the emperor's talisman to protect the barbarians, deal with their resentments and frustrations, and patrol throughout the year to inquire about their sufferings.
He also sent translators many times to inform the situation, and allowed the Qiang and Yi people outside the frontier to serve as the officials' eyes and ears, so that the prefectures and counties could be on guard and on guard.
It is time to restore the previous system to demonstrate deterrence and prevention.
Guangwu adopted Ban Biao's advice and immediately appointed Niu Han as the Colonel Protecting Qiang, holding the Emperor's Talisman as before.
When Niu Han died, he was relieved of the post of Colonel Protecting Qiang.
Ten years later, the chiefs of Xianling colluded with the Qiang people of other tribes and invaded Jincheng and Longxi again. The imperial court sent Zhonglang Lai She and others to attack the invading Qiang people, and defeated the Qiang people. The incident has been recorded in the "Biography of Lai She".
In the summer of the eleventh year, Xian Lingzhong invaded Lintao again. Ma Yuan, the prefect of Longxi, defeated Xian Lingzhong and made them surrender.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
后悉归服，徙置天水、陇西、扶风三郡。
明年，武都参狼羌反，援又破降之。
事已具《援传》。
自烧当至滇良，世居河北大允谷，种小人贫。
而先零、卑湳并皆强富，数侵犯之。
滇良父子积见陵易，愤怒，而素有恩信于种中，于是集会附落及诸杂种，乃从大榆入，掩击先零、卑湳，大破之，杀三千人，掠取财畜，夺居其地大榆中，由是始强。
滇良子滇吾立。
中元元年，武都参狼羌反，杀略吏人，太守与战不胜，陇西太守刘盱遣从事辛都、监军掾李苞，将五千人赴武都，与羌战，斩其酋豪，首虏千余人。
时，武都兵亦更破之，斩首千余级，余悉降。
时滇吾附落转盛，常雄诸羌，每欲侵边者，滇吾转教以方略，为其渠帅。
二年秋，烧当羌滇吾与弟滇岸率步骑五千寇陇西塞，刘盱遣兵于枹罕击之，不能克，又战于允街，为羌所败，杀五百余人。
于是守塞诸羌皆复相率为寇。
遣谒者张鸿领诸郡兵击之，战于允吾、唐谷，军败，鸿及陇西长史田飒皆没。
又天水兵为牢姐种所败于白石，死者千余人。
时，烧何豪有妇人比铜钳者，年百余岁，多智算，为种人所信向，皆从取计策。
时为卢水胡所击，比铜钳乃将其众来依郡县。
种人颇有犯法者，临羌长收系比铜钳，而诛杀其种六七百人。
显宗怜之，乃下诏曰： 昔桓公伐戎而无仁惠。故《春秋》贬曰： 齐人 。
今国家无德，恩不及远，羸弱何辜，而当并命！
translation: 
Later, all the Qiang people surrendered, and the imperial court moved the Qiang people to Tianshui, Longxi, and Fufeng counties.
The next year, the Shenlang Qiang in Wudu rebelled, and Ma Yuan defeated the Shenlang Qiang and made them surrender.
The incident has been recorded in "The Biography of Ma Yuan".
From Shaodang to Dianliang, they lived in the Dayun Valley north of the Yellow River for generations. The tribe was small and the people were poor.
However, Xianling and Beinan were powerful and wealthy, and invaded Yunnan Liang many times.
Dian Liang and his son had been bullied and slighted for a long time, and they were very angry. Moreover, they usually had kindness and loyalty in the tribe, so Dian Liang joined the affiliated tribes and other mixed tribes, marched from Dayu Valley, and suddenly attacked Xianling and Bei'an. They defeated Xianling and Bei'an. They killed 3,000 people, plundered property and livestock, and seized the central area of ​​Dayu Valley as their residence. From then on, they became powerful.
Dian Liang's son Dian Wu succeeded to the throne.
In the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, the Shenlang Qiang in Wudu rebelled, killing and plundering officials and people. The prefect fought with the Shenlang Qiang, but failed to win. The Longxi prefect Liu Xu sent Li Bao, an officer from Xindu and the supervisor of the army, to lead five thousand people to Wudu and fight against the Qiang. They killed the Qiang leader and killed and captured more than a thousand Qiang people.
At this time, Wudu's army also defeated the Qiang people, killing more than a thousand people, and the rest of the Qiang people surrendered.
At that time, Dianwu's subordinate tribes became powerful and often dominated the Qiang tribes. Anyone who wanted to invade the border, Dianwu taught them strategies and became their big leader.
In the autumn of the second year, Shaodang Qiang Dianwu and his younger brother Dian'an led 5,000 infantry and cavalry to invade the Longxi border fortress. Liu Xu sent troops to attack Dianwu in Paohan, but could not win. They fought again in Yunjie and were defeated by the Qiang. More than 500 people were killed.
At this time, the Qiang people of various tribes who guarded the fortress followed and invaded the border one after another.
The imperial court sent envoy Zhang Hong to lead the troops from various counties to attack the Qiang people. They fought at Yunwu and Tanggu, but were defeated. Zhang Hong and Longxi Chief Shi Tiansa both died.
Tianshui's army was defeated by Lao Jiezhong at Baishi, and more than a thousand people died.
At that time, among the leaders of Shaohe, there was a woman named Bi Tongqi, who was more than a hundred years old and very resourceful. She was trusted and respected by the people in the tribe, and everyone listened to her for advice.
Bitongqiu was attacked by Lu Shuihu, so she led her troops to defect to the county.
Many people in the tribe broke the law, so the chief of Linqiang arrested and imprisoned Bitongqi, and killed six to seven hundred people from the Bitongqi tribe.
Emperor Xianzong sympathized with her and issued an edict saying: In the past, Duke Huan of Qi conquered the Rong people without kindness and kindness, so the Spring and Autumn Annals derogatoryly called Duke Huan of Qi "people of Qi".
Today's country lacks benevolence, and the kindness cannot reach far away. What sin does the old and the weak have? Instead, they lose their lives together!


Chunk 11: 
original: 
夫长平之暴，非帝者之功，咎由太守长吏妄加残戮。
比铜钳尚生者，所在致医药养视，令招其种人，若欲归故地者，厚遣送之。
其小种若束手自诣，欲效功者，皆除其罪。
若有逆谋，为吏所捕，而狱状未断，悉以赐有功者。
永平元年，复遣中郎将窦固、捕虏将军马武等击滇吾于西邯，大破之。事已具武等传。
滇吾远引去，余悉散降，徙七千口置三辅。
以谒者窦林领护羌校尉，居狄道。
林为诸羌所信，而滇岸遂诣林降。
林为下吏所欺，谬奏上滇岸以为大豪，承制封为归义侯，加号汉大都尉。
明年，滇吾复降，林复奏其第一豪，与俱诣阙献见。
帝怪一种两豪，疑其非实，以事诘林。
translation: 
Changping buried alive the brutality of the national army, which is not the merit of being an emperor. The fault lies in the fact that the prefect and county officials acted recklessly and brutally killed him.
If Bi Tongqi is still alive, the county where she lives will provide her with medical treatment, medicine, support and care, and ask her to recruit people from the same tribe. If they want to return to their original place of residence, send them away with generous gifts.
If those small tribes stop resisting, go to the county on their own, and are willing to serve and perform meritorious services, they will be exempted from responsibility.
If they participate in a conspiracy and are arrested by the officials, but the charges have not been judged, all of them will be rewarded to the meritorious people.
In the first year of Yongping, the imperial court sent Zhonglang General Baogu, captured general Ma Wu and others to attack Dianwu in Xihan, and defeated Dianwu. The incident has been recorded in the biographies of Ma Wu and others.
Dianwu retreated far away, and the remaining people dispersed or surrendered. The imperial court moved 7,000 Qiang people to Sanfu for resettlement.
Appointed the visitor Dou Lin to lead the Qiang school captain and live in Didao.
Doulin was trusted by the Qiang people of all tribes, and Dian'an surrendered to Doulin.
Baolin was deceived by his officials and reported to the court that he mistakenly regarded Dian'an as the chief. Following the emperor's decree, he made Dian'an a Marquis of Guiyi and was given the title of Commander-in-Chief of the Han Dynasty.
The next year, Dianwu surrendered again, and Dou Lin reported again that Dianwu was the first leader and went to the court with him to pay tribute.
The emperor found it strange that a tribe had two leaders and suspected that it was not true, so he questioned Shi Lin about this matter.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
林辞窘，乃伪对曰； 滇岸即滇吾，陇西语不正耳。
帝穷验知之，怒而免林官。
会凉州刺史又奏林臧罪，遂下狱死。
谒者郭襄代领校尉事，到陇西，闻凉州羌盛，还诣阙，抵罪，于是复省校尉官。
滇吾子东吾立，以父降汉，乃入居塞内，谨愿自守。而诸弟迷吾等数为寇盗。
肃宗建初元年，安夷县吏略妻卑湳种羌妇，吏为其夫所杀，安夷长宗延追之出塞，种人恐见诛，遂共杀延，而与勒姐及吾良二种相结为寇。
陇西太守孙纯遣从事李睦及金城兵会和罗谷，与卑湳等战，斩首虏数百人。
复拜故度辽将军吴棠领护羌校尉，居安夷。
二年夏，迷吾遂与诸众聚兵，欲叛出塞。
translation: 
Baolin was short of words, so he lied and replied: Dian'an is Dianwu. The pronunciation of Longxi is just impure.
The emperor inquired thoroughly and learned the true situation. The emperor became angry and dismissed Dou Lin from his official position.
It happened that the governor of Liangzhou reported Shilin's crime of corruption and bribery. As a result, Shilin was imprisoned and died.
The visitor, Guo Xiang, acted as the captain of the school. When he went to Longxi, he heard that the Qiang people in Liangzhou were powerful, so he returned to the court. He should be convicted, so he was dismissed from the official position of the school captain again.
Dianwu's son Shuwu succeeded to the throne. Because his father surrendered to Mo, he went to the frontier fortress to live in Jiomian. He was honest and self-sustaining, but his younger brother Miwu and others made many incursions and plunders.
In the first year of Emperor Suzong's founding, a county official in Anyi robbed a Bei'an Qiang woman to be his wife. The woman's husband killed the county official. Chang Zongyan of Anyi chased them out of the frontier. The Qiang people of the same tribe were afraid of being killed, so they killed Zongyan together, and joined forces with the Lejie and Wuliang tribes to invade the border.
Sun Chun, the prefect of Longxi, sent troops engaged in Li Mu and Jincheng to meet at Heluo Valley and fought with Bei'an and other tribes, killing and capturing hundreds of people.
The imperial court also appointed Wu Tang, the former general of the Liao Dynasty, as a captain to protect the Qiang, and he lived in Anyi.
In the summer of the second year, Miwu and his tribe finally gathered together and planned to rebel at the frontier.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
金城太守郝崇追之，战于荔谷，崇兵大败，崇轻骑得脱，死者二千余人。
于是诸种及属国卢水胡悉与相应，吴棠不能制，坐征免。
武威太守傅育代为校尉，移居临羌。
迷吾又与封养种豪布桥等五万余人共寇陇西、汉阳，于是遣行车骑将军马防，长外校尉耿恭副，讨破之。
于是临洮、索西、迷吾等悉降。
防乃筑索西城，徙陇西南部都尉戍之，悉复诸亭候。
至元和三年，迷吾复与弟号吾诸杂种反叛。
秋，号吾先轻入寇陇西界，郡督烽掾李章追之，生得号吾。
将诣郡，号吾曰： 独杀我，无损于羌。
诚得生归，必悉罢兵，不复犯塞。
陇西太守张纡权宜放遣，羌即为解散，各归故地。迷吾退居河北归义城。
translation: 
Hao Chong, the governor of Jincheng, chased Miwu and fought in Ligu. Hao Chong's troops were defeated. Hao Chong was able to escape on horseback alone. More than 2,000 people died.
At this time, all the Qiang tribes and the affiliated country Lu Shuihu all responded to Miwu. Wu Tang was unable to control the situation and was summoned and dismissed.
Fu Yu, the prefect of Wuwei, replaced Wu Tang as the school captain, and he moved to Linqiang.
Miwu, together with more than 50,000 people including Bu Qiao, the leader of the feudal tribe, invaded Longxi and Hanyang. The imperial court then sent the riding general Ma Fang as the commander-in-chief and Changshui captain Geng Gong as the deputy commander. They conquered and defeated Miwu.
In this way, Lintao, Suoxi, Miwu and others all surrendered.
Ma Fang then built Suoxi City, moved the captain of southwestern Longxi to Suoxi City to garrison, and restored all the sentry boxes and earthen forts used to monitor the enemy's situation.
In the third year of Yuanhe, Miwu once again rebelled with his younger brother Haowu and various tribes living together.
In autumn, Haowu led a small army to invade the border of Longxi. Li Zhang, the assistant officer in charge of beacon fire in Longxi County, chased Haowu, captured Haowu alive, and took him to the county government.
Haowu said: Just kill me and it will do no harm to the Qiang people.
If I can be released alive, the Qiang people will definitely withdraw all their troops and stop invading the border fortress.
Zhang Yu, the governor of Longxi, used an expedient measure to release Haowu back. The Qiang people immediately disbanded and returned to their original living places. Miwu retreated to Guiyi City, north of the Yellow River.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
傅育不欲失信伐之，乃募人斗诸羌胡，羌胡不肯，遂复叛出塞，更依迷吾。
章和元年，育上请发陇西、张掖、酒泉各五千人，诸郡太守将之，育自领汉阳、金城五千人，合二万兵，与诸郡克期击之，令陇西兵据河南，张掖、酒泉兵遮其西。
并未及会，育军独进。
迷吾闻之，徙庐落去，育选精骑三千穷追之，夜至建威南三兜谷，去虏数里，须旦击之，不设备。
迷吾乃伏兵三百人，夜突育营。营中惊坏散走，育下马手战，杀十余人而死，死者八百八十人。
及诸郡兵到，羌遂引去。
育，北地人也。显宗初，为临羌长，与捕虏将军马武等击羌滇吾，功冠诸军；及在武威，威声闻于匈奴。
translation: 
Fu Yu was unwilling to attack Miwu and lost his faith, so he recruited people to make the Qiang and Hu tribes attack each other. The Qiang and Hu refused, so they betrayed him again and defected to Miwu again.
In the first year of Zhanghe, Fu Yu submitted a letter requesting the recruitment of 5,000 men from Longxi, Zhangye, and Jiuquan counties, led by the governors of each county. He led 5,000 men from Hanyang and Jincheng, with a total of 20,000 troops. He agreed with each county on a date to attack Miwu, and ordered the Longxi troops to occupy the south of the Yellow River, and Zhangye and Jiuquan's troops to intercept on the west of Miwu.
The various armies had not yet joined together, and Fu Yu's army advanced alone.
After Miwu found out, he moved the tribe and tents away. Fu Yu selected 3,000 elite cavalry to pursue Miwu. They arrived at Sandou Valley south of Jianwei at night, several miles away from the enemy, and prepared to wait for dawn to attack Miwu without taking any precautions.
Miwu then ambushed 300 men and attacked Fu Yu's military camp at night. All the soldiers in the camp panicked and fled, defeated and fled. Fu Yu dismounted and fought with his own hands, killing more than ten enemies and killing 880 people.
By the time troops from various counties arrived, the Qiang people had already retreated.
Fu Yu was from the north. He served as the head of Linqiang in the early years of Emperor Xianzong's reign. He and the captive general Ma Wu and others attacked the Qiang people Dianwu, and their military exploits ranked first among all the troops. When he was in Wuwei, his prestige was very influential among the Xiongnu.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
食禄数十年，秩奉尽赡给知友，妻子不免操井臼。
肃宗下诏追褒美之。封其子毅为明进侯，七百户。
以陇西太守张纡代为校尉，将万人屯临羌。
迷吾既杀傅育，狃忕边利。
章和元年，复与诸种步骑七千人入金城塞。
张纡遣从事司马防将千余骑及金城兵会战于木乘谷，迷吾兵败走，因译使欲降，纡纳之。
遂将种人诣临羌县，纡设兵大会，施毒酒中，羌饮醉，纡因自击，伏兵起，诛杀酋豪八百余人。
斩迷吾等五人头，以祭育冢。
复放兵击在山谷间者，斩首四百余人，得生口二千余人。
迷吾子迷唐及其种人向塞号哭，与烧何、当煎、当阗等相结，以子女及金银娉纳诸种，解仇交质，将五千人寇陇西塞，太守寇盱与战于白石，迷唐不利，引还大、小榆谷，北招属国诸胡，会集附落，种众炽盛，张纡不能讨。
translation: 
After being an official for decades, he spent all his salary to support his close friends, and his wife and children had to take care of the housework by themselves.
Suzong issued an edict to commemorate and praise Fu Yu, and named his son Fu Yi the Marquis of Ming Dynasty, granting him a fief of 700 households.
Zhang Yu, the governor of Longxi, was appointed to succeed the captain and led 10,000 people to garrison Linqiang.
Miwu has already killed Fu Yu and is used to getting benefits at the border.
In the first year of Zhanghe, Miwu and seven thousand infantry and cavalry from various tribes entered the Jincheng border fortress.
Zhang Yu sent Sima Fang to lead more than a thousand cavalry and Jincheng's troops to fight Miwu in Mucheng Valley. Miwu's army was defeated and fled. Miwu planned to surrender through an interpreter, and Zhang Yu agreed.
Miwu then led people from the same tribe to Linqiang County. Zhang Yu deployed his troops, held a meeting, and put poison in the wine. After the Qiang people got drunk, Zhang Yu took the opportunity to take action himself, ambushed all four, and killed more than 800 Qiang leaders.
Zhang Yu cut off the heads of Miwu and five other people and used them to pay homage to Fu Yu's grave.
He also allowed his troops to attack the Qiang people in the valley, killing more than 400 people and capturing more than 2,000 people alive.
Miwu's son Mitang and the people of his tribe cried towards the frontier fortress. They colluded with the Shaohe, Dangjian, Dangtian and other tribes, and used their children and gold and silver to recruit and accept the Qiang people of each tribe to resolve hatred and exchange hostages. Mi Tang led 5,000 troops to invade the Longxi frontier fortress. The prefect Kou Xu fought with Mi Tang at Baishi. The situation was unfavorable for Mi Tang, so he led his troops back to the Big and Small Yu Valleys, summoned various Hu tribes in the north, and joined the affiliated tribes. The races and tribes were very strong, and Zhang Yu was unable to conquer Mi Tang.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
永元元年，纡坐征，以张掖太守邓训代为校尉，稍以赏赂离间之，由是诸种少解。
东吾子东号立。
是时，号吾将其种人降。
校尉邓训遣兵击迷唐，迷唐去大、小榆谷，徙居颇岩谷。
和帝永元四年，训病卒，蜀郡太守聂尚代为校尉。
尚见前人累征不克，欲以文德服之，乃遣驿使招呼迷唐，使还居大、小榆谷。
迷唐既还，遣祖母卑缺诣尚，尚自送至塞下，为设祖道，令译田汜等五人护送至庐落。
迷唐因而反叛，遂与诸种共生屠裂汜等，以血盟诅，复寇金城塞。
五年，尚坐征免，居延都尉贯友代为校尉。
友以迷唐难用德怀，终于叛乱，乃遣驿使构离诸种，诱以财货，由是解散。
translation: 
In the first year of Yongyuan, Zhang Yu was requisitioned for committing a crime. The imperial court appointed Deng Xun, the governor of Zhangye, as the school captain. Deng Xun gradually used rewards and bribes to alienate the Qiang people, and these tribes gradually collapsed.
Dongwu's son Camhao succeeded to the throne.
I was sent to lead my tribe to surrender.
The school captain Deng Xun sent troops to attack Mi Tang, who left Xiaoyu Valley and moved to Poyan Valley.
In the fourth year of Emperor Yongyuan's reign, Deng Xun died of illness, and Nie Shang, the governor of Shu County, took over as the school captain.
Nie Shang saw that the people in front of him could not conquer it after repeated attacks, and wanted to win them over with virtue, so he sent a messenger with an interpreter to call Mi Tang and let him return to live in Xiaoyu Valley.
After Mi Tang came back, he sent his grandmother Bei Que to Nie Shang. Nie Shang personally sent Bei Que to the border gate, offered sacrifices to the road gods and held a banquet to see her off. He also sent translator Tian Si and five other people to escort her to the tribe.
Mi Tang took this opportunity to rebel, and together with other tribes, they dismembered Tian Si and others alive, and used their blood oath to invade the Jincheng frontier again.
In the fifth year, Nie Shang was expelled from his post, and Juyan Duwei Guanyou took over as the school captain.
Because Guanyou was obsessed with the Tang Dynasty, it was difficult to be influenced by morality, and eventually rebelled. He sent messengers to instigate discord among the various Qiang tribes and lured them with property. Since then, the Qiang people have been divided and disintegrated.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
友乃遣兵出塞，攻迷唐于大、小榆谷，获首虏八百余人，收麦数万斛，遂夹逢留大河筑城坞，作大航，造河桥，欲度兵击迷唐。
迷唐乃率部落远依赐支河曲。
至八年，友病卒，汉阳太守史充代为校尉。
充至，遂发湟中羌胡出塞击迷唐，而羌迎败充兵，杀数百人。
明年，充坐征，代郡太守吴祉代为校尉。
其秋，迷唐率八千人寇陇西，杀数百人，乘胜深入，胁塞内诸种羌共为寇盗，众羌复悉与相应，合步骑三万人，击破陇西兵，杀大夏长。
遣行征西将军刘尚、越骑校尉赵代副，将北军五营、黎阳、雍营、三辅积射及边兵羌胡三万人讨之。
尚屯狄道，代屯罕。
尚遣司马寇盱监诸郡兵，四面并会。
translation: 
Guanyou then sent troops out of the fortress to attack the Midang in the Xiaoyu Valley, killing and capturing more than 800 Qiang people, and harvesting tens of thousands of dendrobiums of wheat. He then built a castle on both sides of the Fengliu River, built large ships, and built a bridge over the Yellow River, intending to send his troops across the river to attack the Midang.
Mi Tang then led the tribe away and lived near the meander of the Cizhi River.
In the eighth year, Guanyou died of illness, and Shi Chong, the prefect of Hanyang, took over as the school captain.
After Shi Chong took office, he sent the Qiang and Hu from Huangzhong out to the border to attack Mi Tang. However, the Qiang people fought and defeated Shi Chong's troops, killing hundreds of them.
The next year, Shi Chong was convicted and summoned, and Wu Zhi, the acting prefect of the county, took over as the school captain.
In the autumn of this year, Mi Tang led 8,000 men to invade Longxi, killing several hundred people. Taking advantage of the victory, he went deeper and coerced all the Qiang tribes in the territory to invade together. All the Qiang tribes responded to Mi Tang, and combined 30,000 infantry and cavalry to defeat the Longxi troops and kill the commander of Daxia.
The imperial court sent Liu Shang, the general of the expedition to the west, as the commander-in-chief, and the Yueqi school captain Zhao Dai as the deputy commander. They led the 5th battalion of the Northern Army, Liyang, Yongying, and the soldiers of the third auxiliary who could track and shoot, as well as border troops, Qiang and Hu people, totaling 30,000 people, to conquer the lost Tang Dynasty.
Liu Shang was stationed at Didao, and Zhao Dai was stationed at Baohan.
Liu Shang sent Sima Kou Xu to supervise the troops in each county and gather them from all sides at the same time.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
迷唐惧，弃老弱，奔入临洮南。
尚等追至高山。
迷唐穷迫，率其精强大战。盱斩虏千余人，得牛马羊万余头。
迷唐引去。
汉兵死伤亦多，不能复追，乃还入塞。
明年，尚、代并坐畏懦征下狱，免。
谒者王信领尚营屯罕，谒者耿谭领代营屯白石。
谭乃设购赏，诸种颇来内附。
迷唐恐，乃请降。
信、谭遂受降罢兵，遣迷唐诣阙。
其余种人不满二千，饥窘不立，入居金城。
和帝令迷唐将其种人还大、小榆谷。
迷唐以为汉作河桥，兵来无常，故地不可复居，辞以种人饥饿，不肯远出。
吴祉等乃多赐迷唐金、帛，令籴谷市畜，促使出塞，种人更怀猜惊。
translation: 
Mi Tang was frightened and fled to the south of Lintao, abandoning the old and weak.
Liu Shang and others pursued him all the way to the mountains.
Mi Tang was poor and distressed, so he led his elite and powerful troops to fight the Han army. Kou Xu killed more than a thousand enemy captives and obtained more than 10,000 cattle, horses, and sheep.
Mi Tang retreats.
The army in the desert also suffered many casualties and was unable to pursue them any longer, so they returned to the border.
The next year, Liu Shang and Zhao Dai were convicted of cowardice and were conscripted into prison and removed from their official positions.
The visitor Wang Xin commanded Liu Shang's military camp to garrison Paohan, and the visitor Geng Tan commanded Zhao Dai's military camp to garrison Baishi.
Geng Tan then offered a reward, and many people from various Qiang tribes came to submit.
Mi Tang was frightened and asked to surrender.
Wang Xin and Geng Tan accepted Mi Tang's surrender, withdrew their troops and sent Mi Tang to the court.
Other tribes with less than 2,000 people, hungry and embarrassed and unable to stand on their own, moved into Jincheng to live.
Emperor He asked Mi Tang to lead his tribe back to Xiaoyu Valley.
Mi Tang felt that Mo had built a bridge over the Yellow River and the army could come at any time. He could no longer live in the original place, so he used the excuse that the tribesmen were hungry and refused to go far beyond the border.
Wu Zhi and others rewarded Mi Tang with a lot of gold and silk, asking him to buy grain and livestock, and urged Mi Tang to leave the border, which made the people in the tribe even more suspicious and fearful.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
十二年，遂复背叛，乃胁将湟中诸胡，寇抄而去。
王信、耿谭、吴祉皆坐征，以酒泉太守周鲔代为校尉。
明年，迷唐复还赐支河曲。
初，累姐种附汉，迷唐怨之，遂击杀其酋豪，由是与诸种为仇，党援益疏。其秋，迷唐复将兵向塞，周鲔与金城太守侯霸，及诸郡兵、属国湟中月氏诸胡、陇西牢姐羌，合三万人，出塞至允川，与迷唐战。
周鲔还营自守，唯侯霸兵陷阵，斩首四百余级。羌众折伤，种人瓦解，降者六千余口，分徙汉阳、安定、陇西。
迷唐遂弱，其种众不满千人，远逾赐支河首，依发羌居。
明年，周鲔坐畏懦征，侯霸代为校尉。
安定降羌烧何种胁诸羌数百人反叛，郡兵击灭之，悉没入弱口为奴婢。
时，西海及大、小榆谷左右无复羌寇。
隃麋相曹凤上言： 西戎为害，世所患，臣不能纪古，且以近事言之。
自建武以来，其犯法者，常从烧当种起。
translation: 
Twelve years later, they finally rebelled again, coerced various tribes of barbarians in Huangzhong, and plundered them away.
Wang Xin, Geng Tan, and Wu Zhi were all convicted and conscripted, and the imperial court appointed Jiuquan Prefect Zhou Kun as the school captain.
The next year, Mi Tang returned to Cizhihe meander.
At first, Lei Jiezhong defected to the Han, and Mi Tang resented Lei Jiezhong, so he attacked and killed their leader. This created hatred with other tribes, and fewer and fewer party members came to help. In the autumn of this year, Mi Tang led an army to attack the frontier fortress. Zhou Tuna, together with Hou Ba, the prefect of Jincheng, and troops from various counties, Hu Rui from the Yuezhi tribe in the vassal state of Huangzhong, and Lao Jie Qiang from Longxi, together numbered 30,000 people, went out to Yunchuan to fight against Mi Tang.
Zhou Kun returned to the military camp to guard, but only Hou Ba's troops rushed into the enemy formation and killed more than 400 enemies. The Qiang people were killed and injured, and the tribe disintegrated. More than 6,000 people surrendered, and they were moved to Hanyang, Anding and Longxi.
Mi Tang was in decline since then, and his tribe had less than a thousand people. They crossed the head of the Cizhi River and lived near the Faqiang.
The next year, Zhou Kun was recruited for cowardice, and Hou Ba took over as the school captain.
The surrendered Qiang tribe burned what kind of force to force hundreds of Qiang people from other tribes to rebel. The county soldiers destroyed them and confiscated all the weak Qiang people as slaves.
At that time, there were no more Qiang invasions near the Xihai Sea and the Big and Small Yu Valleys.
Yu Mixiang Cao Feng wrote to Cao Feng, saying: "Xirong has caused harm, and the previous generations were worried about it. I cannot describe ancient events, so let's talk about things in front of me."
Since the founding of the People's Republic of China, Qiang people who have violated the law often start by burning fire.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
所以然者，以其居大、小榆谷，土地肥美，又近塞内，诸种易以为非，难以攻伐。
南得钟存以广其众，北阻大河因以为固，又有西海鱼盐之利，缘山滨水，以广田蓄，故能强大，常雄诸种，恃其权勇，招诱羌胡。
今者衰困，党援坏沮，亲属离叛，余胜兵者不过数百，亡逃栖窜，远依发羌。
臣愚以为宜及此时，建复西海郡县，规固二榆，广设屯田，隔塞羌胡交关之路，遏绝狂狡窥欲之源。
又殖谷富边，省委输之役，国家可以无西方之忧。
于是拜凤为金城西部都尉，将徙士屯龙耆。
后金城长史上官鸿上开置归义、建威屯田二十七部，侯霸复上置东西邯屯田五部，增留、逢二部，帝皆从之。
translation: 
Therefore, because they live in the Big and Small Yu Valleys, the land is fertile and close to the Senei, it is easy for the tribes to do illegal things and it is not easy to attack them.
To the south, they occupied Zhongcun to expand their power. To the north, they relied on the Yellow River as a dangerous point, and had favorable conditions in terms of fish and salt in the West Sea. They were surrounded by mountains and rivers, so they could expand their fields and accumulate savings. Therefore, they became powerful and often dominated the tribes. They relied on their power and bravery to lure and recruit Qiang and Hu people.
Now the Shaodang Qiang is in decline and embarrassment, the allies who supported them have failed and become frustrated, and their close associates have defected. There are only a few hundred people left who can fight. They are fleeing and seeking refuge with the Fa Qiang.
The minister believes that we should take advantage of the present to restore the establishment of counties and counties in the West Sea, plan to consolidate the Yu Valley and the Yu Valley, establish extensive farming, cut off the roads connecting the Qiang and Hu, and curb the thoughts of those arrogant and cunning people who are coveting.
And growing grains will make the border rich and reduce the labor in transportation, so the country will not have to worry about the west.
The imperial court then appointed Cao Feng as the western captain of Jincheng, and led soldiers composed of exiled people to garrison Longqi.
Later, Jincheng Chief Shi Guanhong wrote a letter requesting the establishment of 27 military villages in Guiyi and Jianwei. Hou Ba also wrote a letter requesting the establishment of five military villages on the east and west banks of the Hand River, and added two more military villages in Liu and Feng. The emperor obeyed.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
列屯夹河，合三十四部。其功垂立。至永初中，诸羌叛。乃罢。
迷唐失众，病死。
有一子来隆，户不满数十。
东号子麻奴立。
初随父降，居安定。时，诸降羌布在郡县，皆为吏人豪右所徭役，积以愁怨。
安帝永初元年夏，遣骑都尉王弘发金城、陇西、汉阳羌数百千骑征西域，弘迫促发遣，群羌惧远屯不还，行到酒泉，多有散叛。
诸郡各发兵徼遮，或覆其庐落。
于是勒姐、当煎大豪东岸等愈惊，遂同时奔溃。
麻奴兄弟因此遂与种人俱西出塞。
先零别种滇零与钟羌诸种大为寇掠，断陇道。
时羌归附既久，无复器甲，或持竹竿木枝以代戈矛，或负板案以为楯，或执铜镜以象兵，郡县畏懦不能制。
translation: 
On both sides of the Yellow River, there were thirty-four tribes in the field. Their achievements were about to be established. However, in the early years of Yongchu, various tribes of the Qiang people rebelled, and this was stopped.
Mi Tang lost his tribe and died of illness.
One of his sons came to surrender, and he was of less than a dozen families.
Donghao's son Manu succeeded to the throne.
At first, he surrendered with his father and lived in Anding. At that time, all the surrendered Qiang people were distributed in various counties and counties, and they were all used by officials and powerful men, which accumulated sorrow and resentment.
In the summer of the first year of Emperor An's Yongchu reign, the imperial court sent cavalry captain Wang Hong to mobilize hundreds of Qiang cavalry from Jincheng, Longxi, and Hanyang to conquer the Western Regions. Wang Hong urged the expedition, but the Qiang people were afraid of garrisoning far away and would not come back. When they reached Jiuquan, many people dispersed and rebelled.
All counties sent troops to intercept, and some destroyed Qiang villages.
In this way, Sister Le, Dong'an, the leader of Dangjian, and others became even more panicked and fled together.
Therefore, the Manu brothers and their fellow tribesmen headed west out of the frontier.
Another tribe of Xianling, Dianling and Zhongqiang tribes, invaded and plundered wildly, cutting off the road to Longzhong.
At that time, the Qiang people had been surrendering for a long time and no longer had weapons or armor. Some people used bamboo poles and wooden sticks instead of spears, some carried wooden boards as shields, and some held bronze mirrors to symbolize weapons. The counties and counties were too timid and afraid to subdue them.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
冬，遣车骑将军邓骘，征西校尉任尚副，将五营及三河、三辅、汝南、南阳、颍川、太原、上党兵合五万人，屯汉阳。
明年春，诸郡兵未及至，钟羌数千人先击败骘军于冀西，杀千余人。
校尉侯霸坐众羌反叛征免，以西域都护段禧代为校尉。
其冬，骘使任尚及从事中郎司马钧率诸郡兵与滇零等数万人战于平襄，尚军大败，死者八千余人。
于是滇零等自称 天子 于北地，招集武都、参狼、上郡、西河诸杂种，众遂大盛，东犯赵、魏，南入益州，杀汉中太守董炳，遂寇抄三辅，断陇道。
湟中诸县，粟石万钱，百姓死亡，不可胜数。
朝廷不能制，而转运难剧，遂诏骘还师，留任尚屯汉阳，为诸军节度。
朝廷以邓太后故，迎拜骘为大将军，封任尚乐亭侯，食邑三百户。
三年春，复遣骑都尉任仁督诸郡屯兵救三辅。
translation: 
In winter, the imperial court sent General Deng Lu as the commander-in-chief, and Ren Shang, the captain of Zhengxi School, as the deputy commander-in-chief, leading the fifth battalion as well as Sanhe, Sanfu, Runan, Nanyang, and Ying! A total of 50,000 troops from Taiyuan and Shangdang were stationed in Hanyang.
In the spring of the next year, before the troops from various counties could arrive, thousands of Zhong Qiang defeated Deng Lu's army in the west of Ji County, killing more than a thousand people.
The school captain Hou Ba was called up and dismissed due to the rebellion of the Qiang people, and Duan Xi, the military governor of the Western Regions, took over as the school captain.
In the winter of this year, Deng Lu sent Ren Shang and Zhonglang Sima Jun to lead troops from various counties to fight with tens of thousands of people including Dian Ling and Zai Huxiang. Ren Shang's army was defeated and more than 8,000 people died.
At this time, the tribes such as Dian Ling claimed to be the emperor in the north, and recruited tribes from Wudu, Shenlang, Shangjun, and Xihe. As a result, the people and horses became greatly powerful, and they invaded Chang and Wei to the east, and entered Yizhou to the south. They killed Dong Bing, the governor of the desert, and then invaded and looted Sanfu, cutting off the road to Longzhong.
In the counties of Huangzhong, one stone of grain was sold for ten thousand yuan, and the number of people who died was incalculable.
The imperial court was unable to stop it, and transportation was very difficult, so it issued an edict asking Deng Lu to take charge of the army, leaving Ren Shang to garrison Hanyang and control the deployment of all armies.
Because of Empress Dowager Deng, the emperor welcomed and consecrated Deng Lu as a general, and appointed Shang as the Marquis of Leting, with a fief of 300 households.
In the spring of the third year, the imperial court sent Cavalry Captain Renren to supervise the troops stationed in various counties to rescue the third assistant.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
仁战每不利，众羌乘胜，汉兵数挫。
当煎、勒姐种攻没破羌县，钟羌又没临洮县，生得陇西南部都尉。
明年春，滇零遣人寇褒中，燔烧邮亭，大掠百姓。
于是，汉中太守郑勤移屯褒中。
军营久出无功，有废农桑，乃诏任尚将吏兵还屯长安，罢遣南阳、颍川、汝南吏士，置京兆虎牙都尉于长安，扶风都尉于雍，如西京三辅都尉故事。
时，羌复攻褒中，郑勤欲击之。
主簿段崇谏，以为虏乘胜，锋不可当，宜坚守待之。
勤不从，出战，大败，死者三千余人，段崇及门下史王宗、原展以身刃，与勤俱死，于是徙金城郡居襄武。
任仁战累败，而兵士放纵，槛车征诣廷尉诏狱死。
段禧病卒，复以前校尉侯霸代之，遂移居张掖。
五年春，任尚坐无功征免。
羌遂入寇河东，至河内，百姓相惊，多奔南度河。
translation: 
Ren Ren's battles were unfavorable every time. The Qiang people took advantage of their victory to advance, and the Han army suffered many setbacks.
Dangjian and Le Jiezhong captured Poqiang County, and Zhong Qiang captured Lintao County and captured alive the captain of southwestern Longnan.
Si, Zhi: In the spring of the next year, the Dian Ling faction invaded Baozhong, burned down the inn, and plundered the people wantonly.
So Zheng Qin, the governor of Hanzhong, moved his troops to garrison Baozhong.
The army was away for a long time without any achievements, which delayed agricultural production, so the imperial edict asked Ren Shang to lead the officials and soldiers back to Chang'an to garrison, and to withdraw and disband Nanyang and Ying! The soldiers of Runan established the Jingzhao Huya Commandery in Chang'an and the Fufeng Commandery in Yong County, just like the old practice of the three auxiliary commanders in Xijing.
At that time, the Qiang people attacked Baozhong again, and Zheng Qin wanted to attack the Qiang people.
Duan Chong, the chief bookkeeper, dissuaded him, believing that the enemy was coming to take advantage of the victory and it would be difficult for the troops to resist, so he should hold on and wait for the enemy to attack.
Zheng Qin refused to agree and went out to fight in the city. The result was a huge defeat. More than 3,000 people were killed. Duan Chong and his disciples Shi Wangzong and Yuan Zhan used their bodies to block the weapons and died together with Zheng Qin. The imperial court then moved Jincheng County to Xiangwu.
Ren Ren failed many times in battles, and his soldiers were unruly and disobedient. He was drafted by the court in a prison car and sent to Tingwei Prison, where he died.
Duan Xi died of illness, and the imperial court once again replaced the school captain Hou Ba as the school captain. Hou Ba moved to Zhang Yu to garrison.
In the spring of the fifth year, Ren Shang was expelled from office because he failed to make meritorious deeds.
The Qiang people then invaded Hedong and attacked Hanoi. The people were panicked and many people fled south across the Yellow River.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
使北军中候朱宠将五营士屯孟津，诏魏郡、赵国、常山、中山缮作坞候六百一十六所。
羌既转盛，而二千石、令、长多内郡人，并无守战意，皆争上徙郡县，以避寇难。
朝廷从之，遂移陇西徙襄武，安定徙美阳，北地徙池阳，上郡徙衙。
百姓恋土，不乐去旧，遂乃刘其禾稼，发彻室屋，夷营壁，破积聚。
时连旱蝗饥荒，而驱劫略，流离分散，随道死亡，或弃捐老弱，或为人仆妾，丧其太半。
复以任尚为侍御史，击众羌于上党羊头山，破之，诱杀降者二百余人，乃罢孟津屯。
其秋，汉阳人杜琦及弟季贡、同郡王信等与羌通谋，聚众入上城，琦自称安汉将军。
translation: 
The imperial court asked the Northern Army's Lieutenant Commander Zhu Chong to lead five battalions of soldiers to guard Mengjin, and sent a letter to Shao to build 616 earthen forts and pavilions in Weijun, Zhaoguo, Changshan and Zhongshan.
Now that the Qiang people have become powerful, most of the Erqianshi, county magistrates, and county magistrates are from the mainland and have no idea of ​​defense or war. They are all busy writing letters requesting to move to counties to avoid enemy invasion and danger.
The imperial court agreed, so Longxi was moved to Xiangwu, Anding was moved to Meiyang, Beidi was moved to Chiyang, and Shangjun was moved to Yaxian.
The people were nostalgic for their homeland and were unwilling to leave, so they cut off their crops, demolished their houses, leveled the earthen barriers of the military camps, and destroyed the accumulated property.
At that time, there were continuous droughts, locust plagues, famines, and driving, robbery, and plunder. The people were displaced and scattered in all directions. People continued to die on the road. Some people left old people and children behind, and some people worked as servants and concubines. More than half of them were lost.
The imperial court again appointed Ren Shang as Shi Yushi, attacked the Qiang people in Yangtou Mountain of Shangdang, defeated the Qiang people, and deceived and killed more than 200 people who surrendered. Therefore, Mengjin's garrison was withdrawn.
In the autumn of this year, Du Qi from Hanyang, his younger brother Jigong, and Wang Xin from the same county conspired with the Qiang people to gather troops and enter the upper city. Du Qi called himself "General Anhan".


Chunk 25: 
original: 
于是诏购募得琦首者，封列侯，赐钱百万，羌胡斩琦者赐金百斤，银二百斤。
汉阳太守赵博遣刺客杜习刺杀琦，封习讨奸侯，赐钱百万。
而杜季贡、王信等将其众据樗泉营。
侍御史唐喜领诸郡兵讨破之，斩王信等六百余级，没入妻子五百余人，收金银彩帛一亿已上。
杜季贡亡从滇零。
六年，任尚复坐征免。
滇零死，子零昌代立，年尚幼少，同种狼莫为其计策，以杜季贡为将军，别居于奚城。
七年夏，骑都尉马贤与侯霸掩击零昌别部牢羌于安定，首虏千人，得驴、骡、骆驼、马、牛、羊二万余头，以畀得者。
元初元年春，遣兵屯河内，通谷冲要三十三所，皆为坞壁，设鸣鼓。
零昌遣兵寇雍城，又号多与当煎、勒姐大豪共胁诸种，分兵抄掠武都、汉中。
translation: 
So Shaoshu offered a reward, and anyone who could get Du Qi's head would be made a prince and rewarded with one million coins. The Qiang and Hu people who killed Du Qi would be rewarded with one hundred catties of gold and two hundred catties of silver.
Zhao Bo, the prefect of Hanyang, sent his assassin Du Xi to assassinate Du Qi. The imperial court named Du Xi a traitor prince and rewarded him with one million yuan.
However, Du Jigong, Wang Xin and others led their troops to occupy the Chuquan Camp.
Tang happy, the imperial censor, led troops from various counties to defeat them and killed more than 600 people including Wang Xin. More than 500 of their wives and children were confiscated and sent to the palace, and more than 100 million in gold, silver and silk were obtained.
Du Jigong fled and went to Yunnan.
Six years later, Ren Shang was called up and dismissed again.
After Dian Ling's death, his son Lingchang succeeded to the throne. Lingchang was still young. The man langmo from the same tribe made suggestions for Lingchang. He appointed Du Jigong as general and lived in Dingxi City.
In the summer of the seventh year, the Cavalry Commander Ma Xian and Hou Ba attacked another group of Lao Qiang in Lingchang, An'ing, killing more than a thousand people, and obtained more than 20,000 donkeys, mules, camels, horses, cattle, sheep, etc., and gave them to the captured soldiers.
In the spring of the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, the imperial court sent troops to garrison Hanoi and opened up thirty-three important places in the valley. They built earthen barriers and set up bells and drums.
Lingchang sent troops to invade Yongcheng. In addition, Haoduo, together with the leaders of Dangjian and Lejie, coerced other tribes and divided their troops to loot Wudu and Mozhong.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
巴郡板蛮将兵救之，汉中五官掾程信率壮士与蛮共击破之。号多退走，还断陇道，与零昌通谋。
侯霸、马贤将湟中吏人及降羌胡丁罕击之，斩首二百余级。
凉州刺史皮杨击羌于狄道，大败，死者八百余人，杨坐征免。
侯霸病卒，汉阳太守庞参代为校尉。
参以恩信招诱之。
二年春，号多等率众七千余人诣参降，遣诣阙，赐号多侯印绶遣之。
参始还居令居，通河西道。
而零昌种众复分寇益州，遣中郎将尹就将南阳兵，因发益部诸郡屯兵击零昌党吕叔都等。
至秋，蜀人陈省、罗横应募，刺杀叔都，皆封侯、赐钱。
又使屯骑校尉班雄屯三辅，遣左冯翊司马钧行征西将军，督右扶风仲光、安定太守杜恢、北地太守盛包、京兆虎牙都尉耿溥、右扶风都尉皇甫旗等，合八千余人，又庞参将羌胡兵七千余人，与钧分道，并北击零昌。
参兵至勇士东，为杜季贡所败，于是引退。
钧等独进，攻拔丁奚城，大克获。
杜季贡率众伪逃。钧令光、恢、包等收羌禾稼，光等违钧节度，散兵深入，羌乃设伏要击之。
钧在城中，怒而不救，光等并没，死者三千余人。
钧乃遁还，坐征自杀。
庞参以失期军败抵罪，以马贤代领校尉事。
后遣任尚为中郎将，将羽林、缇骑、五营子弟三千五百人，代班雄屯三辅。
尚临行，怀令虞诩说尚曰： 使君频奉国命，讨逐寇贼，三州屯兵二十余万入，弃农桑，疲苦徭役，而未有功效，劳费日滋。
translation: 
Banmei Man of Bajun led troops to rescue Wudu and Hanzhong. Cheng Xin of Hanzhong Wuguanmen led the warriors and defeated the Qiang people together with the barbarians. Haoduo retreated, but turned back to cut off the road to Longxi and conspired with Lingchang.
Hou Ba and Ma Xian led the officials and people in Huangzhong as well as the surrendered Qiang and Hu people to attack Paohan and killed more than 200 people.
Pi Yang, the governor of Liangzhou, attacked the Qiang people in Didao, but was severely defeated and more than 800 people died. As a result, Pi Yang was summoned and dismissed.
Hou Ba died of illness, and Pang Shen, the governor of Hanyang, took over as the school captain.
Pang Shen recruited and lured the Qiang people with kindness and faith.
In the spring of the second year, Hao Duo and others led more than 7,000 tribesmen to surrender at Pang Shenna. Pang Shen sent Haoduo to the court, and the emperor gave Haoduo the seal of the marquis and asked him to go back.
Pang Shen then returned to live in Lingju and opened the road to Hexi.
However, Lingchang's Zhong tribe divided their forces to attack Yizhou. The imperial court sent Zhonglang General Yin Jiu to lead Nanyang's troops, and then mobilized troops from various counties in Yizhou to attack Lingchang's associates, Lu Shudu and others.
In the autumn, Chen Sheng and Luo Heng from Shu County responded to the recruitment and assassinated Lu Shudu. They were all made marquises and rewarded with money.
The imperial court also sent the garrison captain Ban Xiong to garrison the third auxiliary, and sent Feng Yi from the left and Sima Gou to march to the west general, commanding Fufeng Zhongguang on the right, Du Hui, the prefect of Anding, Sheng Bao, the prefect of Beidi, Geng Pu, the captain of Huya in Jingzhao, and Huangfu Qi, the captain of Fufeng on the right, totaling more than 8,000 people. In addition, Pang Shen led more than 7,000 Qiang and Hu soldiers to separate from Sima Jun and attack Lingchang to the north.
Pang Shen's army was defeated by Du Jigong, so he led his troops to retreat.
Only Sima Jun and others advanced and captured Dingxi City. They won a great victory and obtained many things.
Du Jigong led his troops to pretend to escape. Sima Jun ordered Zhongguang, Du Hui, Shengbao and others to harvest the Qiang crops. Zhongguang and others violated Sima Jun's control and dispatch, and the troops dispersed deeply. The Qiang people therefore set up an ambush to attack them.
Sima Jun was trapped in the city and was angry but refused to rescue him. Zhong Guang and others were all killed in the battle, and more than 3,000 people were killed.
Sima Gou then escaped and was drafted for committing a crime. Sima Gou committed suicide.
Pang Shen should be punished for missing the deadline and the army was defeated, and the court appointed Ma Xian as acting captain.
Later, Ren Shang was appointed as Zhonglang General, leading the Yulin Army, Tiqi, and the fifth battalion of 3,500 soldiers to replace Ban Xiong and garrison the third auxiliary.
When Ren Shanglin set out, Yu Xiang, the magistrate of Huai County, persuaded Ren Shang: "You have accepted state orders many times to conquer and expel enemy invaders." There are more than 200,000 troops garrisoned in the three states. They have abandoned agricultural work and are exhausted and toiled by corvee labor, but without any achievements and achievements, and the consumption of manpower and property is increasing.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
若此出不克，诚为使君危之。
尚曰： 忧惶久矣，不知所如。
诩曰： 兵法：弱不攻强，走不逐飞，自然之势也。
今虏皆马骑，日行数百，来如风雨，去如绝弦。以步追之，势不相及，所以旷而无功也。
为使君计者，莫如罢诸郡兵，各令出钱数千，二十人共市一马，如此，可舍甲胄，驰轻兵，以万骑之众，逐数千之虏，追尾掩截，其道自穷。
便人利事，大功立矣。
尚大喜，即上言用其计。
乃遣轻骑抄击杜季贡于丁奚城，斩首四百余级，获牛、马、羊数千头。
明年夏，度辽将军邓遵，率南单于及左鹿蠡王须沈万骑，击零昌于灵州，斩首八百余级。封须沈为破虏侯，金印紫绶，赐金、帛各有差。
translation: 
If we can't win this time, I'm really in danger for you.
Ren Shang said: I have been worried and scared for a long time and I don’t know what to do.
Yu Xiang said: According to the art of war, the weak will not attack the strong, and those walking on the ground will not chase those flying in the sky. This is determined by the natural situation.
Now the enemies all ride horses and can travel hundreds of miles a day. When they come, they are as fast as wind and rain, and when they leave, they fly away like arrows. If they chase the enemies on foot, they will naturally be unable to catch up, so they have no achievements for a long time.
For your consideration, it is better to withdraw the troops from each county, and each of them should spend several thousand dollars, and twenty people can buy a horse together. In this way, they can gallop light troops without using wrong armor, and use tens of thousands of cavalry troops to chase thousands of enemy captives, chase and intercept them, and the enemy captives will naturally be unable to do anything.
If it is beneficial to people and things, it will be a great success.
Ren Shang was overjoyed and immediately wrote a letter stating that he would adopt Yu Ci's strategy.
So he sent light cavalry to outflank and attack Du Jigong in Dingxi City, killing more than 400 enemy captives and gaining thousands of cattle, horses and sheep.
In the summer of the next year, General Deng Zun of the Liao Dynasty led Nan Shanyu and Zuo Luli King Xu Shen with 10,000 cavalry. They attacked Lingchang in Lingzhou and killed more than 800 people. The court named Xu Shen the Polu Marquis, gave him a gold seal and purple ribbon, and each of them was rewarded with different amounts of gold, silver, coins and silk.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
任尚遣兵击破先零羌于丁奚城。
秋，筑冯翊北界候坞五百所。
任尚又遣假司马募陷陈士，击零昌于北地，杀其妻子，得牛、马、羊二万头，烧其庐落，斩首七百余级，得号文书及所没诸将印绶。
四年春，尚遣当阗种羌榆鬼等五人刺杀杜季贡，封榆鬼为破羌侯。
其夏，尹就以不能定益州，坐征抵罪。以益州刺史张乔领尹就军屯，招诱叛羌，稍稍降散。
秋，任尚复募效功种号封刺杀零昌，封号封为羌王。
冬，任尚将诸郡兵与马贤并进北地击狼莫，贤先至安定青石岸，狼莫逆击，败之。
会尚兵到高平，因合势俱进。狼莫等引退，乃转营迫之。至北地，相持六十余日，战于富平上河，大破之，斩首五千级还，得所略人男女千余人，牛、马、驴、羊、骆驼十余万头。狼莫逃走，于是西河虔人种羌万一千口诣邓遵降。
五年，邓遵募上郡全无种羌雕何等刺杀狼莫，赐雕何为羌侯，封遵武阳侯，三千户。
遵以太后从弟故，爵封优大。
任尚与遵争功，又诈增首级，受赇枉法，臧千万已上，槛车征弃市，没入田卢奴婢财物。
translation: 
Ren Shang sent troops to defeat the Xianling Qiang in Dingxi City.
In the autumn, 500 pavilions and earth forts were built on the northern border of Feng Yi.
Ren Shang also sent acting Sima to recruit soldiers who could charge into the battle, and attacked Lingchang in the north. He killed Ya Lingchang's wife and children, obtained 20,000 cattle, horses, and sheep, burned their tent villages, killed more than 700 people, and collected the documents of the Qiang people's arrogant names and the seals and ribbons of the generals they killed.
In the spring of the fourth year, Ren Shang sent Yu Gui, a Qiang from Dangtian, and five other people to assassinate Du Jigong. Yu Gui was named Po Qiang Hou.
In the summer of this year, Yin Jiu was called up for punishment because he failed to pacify Yizhou. The imperial court asked Zhang Qiao, the governor of Yizhou, to command Yin Jiu's garrison. Zhang Qiao summoned and persuaded the rebellious Qiang people, and the Qiang people gradually surrendered and dispersed.
In the autumn, Ren Shang once again recruited Haofeng, a man of meritorious service, to assassinate Lingchang, and Haofeng was granted the title of King of Qiang.
In winter, Ren Shang led troops from various counties to march to the north with Ma Xian to attack Lang Mo. Ma Xian first arrived at Anding Qingshi'an, where Lang Mo fought and defeated Ma Xian.
It happened that Ren Shang's troops arrived at Gaogan, so the two armies jointly advanced. Lang Mo and others retreated, so they moved the military camp to approach Lang Mo. When they arrived in Beidi, the two sides held a stalemate for more than 60 days. They fought on the river in Fuping, captured Lang Mo and killed the enemy. Five thousand people were able to return more than a thousand men and women who had been kidnapped by the Qiang people, and obtained more than 100,000 cattle, horses, donkeys, sheep, and camels. The wolves did not escape. At this time, 11,000 Qiang people from Xihe Qian people came to Deng Zun to surrender.
In the fifth year, Deng Zun recruited the Qiang Diao He and others from Shangjun to assassinate Lang Mo. The imperial court granted Diao He the title of Qiang Marquis, and Deng Zun was granted the title of Wuyang Marquis, with the title of 3,000 households.
Because Deng Zun was the cousin of the Queen Mother, he received many titles and generous rewards.
Ren Shang competed with Deng Zun for merit, falsely reported the number of Qiang heads, accepted bribes, violated the law, and embezzled more than 10 million yuan. He was conscripted to the capital in a prison car by the court and executed in a busy city. His fields, houses, slaves, and property were confiscated.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
自零昌、狼莫死后，诸羌瓦解，三辅、益州无复寇儆。
自羌叛十余年间，兵连师老，不暂宁息。
军旅之费，转运委输，用二百四十余亿，府帑空竭。
延及内郡，边民死者不可胜数，并、凉二州，遂至虚耗。
六年春，勒姐种与陇西种羌号良等通谋欲反，马贤逆击之于安故，斩号良及种人数百级，皆降散。
永宁元年春，上郡沈氐种羌五千余人复寇张掖。
其夏，马贤将万人击之。初战失利，死者数百人。
明日复战，破之，斩首千八百级，获生口千余人，马、牛、羊以万数，余虏悉降。
时当煎种大蒙饥五等，以贤兵在张掖，乃乘虚寇金城。贤还军追之出塞，斩首数千级而还。
烧当、烧何种闻贤军还，率三千余人复寇张掖，杀长吏。
translation: 
Since the deaths of Lingchang and Langmo, the Qiang tribes have collapsed, and there have been no warnings of enemy invasion in Sanfu and Yizhou.
In the more than ten years since the Qiang people rebelled, there have been continuous wars. The army is exhausted and there is no short rest.
The military expenditure, plus transportation, cost more than 24 billion, leaving the treasury completely empty and affecting all the counties in the interior.
The number of people who died in the border areas is incalculable, and the two states of Bingzhou and Liangzhou have reached the point of being exhausted.
In the spring of the sixth year, Le Jie Zhong colluded with Longxi Zhong Qiang Haoliang and others to rebel. Ma Xian fought against Haoliang in Angu and killed Haoliang and hundreds of Qiang people. The others surrendered and dispersed.
In the spring of the first year of Yongning, more than 5,000 Shen Di and Qiang people from Shangjun invaded Zhangye again.
In the summer of this year, Ma Xian led 10,000 people to attack the Shen Di Zhong Qiang. In the first battle, Ma Xian was defeated and hundreds of people were sacrificed.
They fought again the next day and defeated the Shen Di Zhong Qiang. They killed 1,800 people and captured more than 1,000 people. They gained tens of thousands of horses, cattle, and sheep. All other enemies surrendered.
At this time, Dang Jianzhong Chief Hao Qingwu and others took advantage of Ma Xian's army in Zhangye and invaded Jincheng. Ma Xian returned to pursue Qingwu, chased him out of the border, and killed thousands of people before returning to the army.
When Shaodang and Shaozai heard that Ma Xian's army had withdrawn, he led more than 3,000 people to invade Zhangye again and killed county officials.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
初，饥五同种大豪卢、忍良等千余户别留允街，而首施两端。
建光元年春，马贤率兵召卢斩之，因放兵击其种人，首虏二千余人，掠马、牛、羊十万头，忍良等皆亡出塞。
玺书封贤安亭侯，食邑千户。
忍良等以麻奴兄弟本烧当世嫡。而贤抚恤不至，常有怨心。
秋，遂相结共胁将诸种步骑三千人寇湟中，攻金城诸县。
贤将先零种赴击之，战于牧苑，兵败，死者四百余人。
麻奴等又败武威、张掖郡兵于令居，因胁将先零、沈氐诸种四千余户，缘山西走，寇武威。
贤追到鸾鸟，招引之。
诸种降者数千，麻奴南还湟中。
延光元年春，贤追到湟中，麻奴出塞度河。贤复追击，战破之，种众散遁，诣凉州刺史宗汉降。
麻奴等孤弱饥困，其年冬，将种众三千余户诣汉阳太守耿种降。
安帝假金印紫绶，赐金银彩缯各有差。
是岁，虔人种羌与上郡胡反，攻穀罗城。度辽将军耿夔将诸郡兵及乌桓骑赴，击破之。
三年秋，陇西郡始还狄道焉。
麻奴弟犀苦立。
顺帝永建元年，陇西钟羌反。校尉马贤将七千余人击之，战于临洮，斩首千余级，皆率种人降。
进封贤都乡侯，自是凉州无事。
至四年，尚书仆射虞诩上疏曰： 臣闻子孙以奉祖为孝，君上以安民为明，此高宗、周宣所以上配汤、武也。
translation: 
At first, more than a thousand households including Hao Luhu and Renliang, the chiefs of the same tribe as Qingwu, stayed in Yun Street and adopted a slow wait-and-see attitude.
In the spring of the first year of Jianguang, Ma Xian led the army to recruit Lu Hu and killed him. Taking this opportunity, he allowed the soldiers to attack the Lu Hu tribe, killing more than 2,000 people and plundering 100,000 horses, cattle, and sheep. Renliang and others escaped from the border.
In the seal, Ma Xian was granted the title of Marquis of Anting, with a fief of one thousand households.
Ren Liang and others were the direct descendants of the Ma Nu brothers, but Ma Xian did not comfort them and often complained in his heart.
In autumn, Renliang and others joined forces with the Manu brothers to coerce and lead 3,000 infantry and cavalry from various tribes to invade Huangzhong and attack the counties of Jincheng.
Ma Xian led Lingzhong to attack Ninliang. They fought at the horse ranch and were defeated. More than 400 people died.
Manu and others defeated the troops of Wuwei and Zhangye in Lingju, and took the opportunity to coerce and lead more than 4,000 households from the Ling and Shendi tribes to march westward along the mountains and invade Wuwei.
Ma Xian pursued him to Luanwu and attracted the Qiang people. Thousands of people from each tribe surrendered.
Manu returned south to Huangzhong.
In the spring of the first year of Yanguang, Ma Xian pursued Ma Nu to Huangzhong, where Manu crossed the Yellow River out of the frontier fortress. Ma Xian pursued Ma Nu again and defeated Ma Nu. Manu's tribe broke up and fled, and many people surrendered to Zonghan, the governor of Liangzhou.
Manu and others were isolated, weak, hungry and distressed. In the winter of that year, they led more than 3,000 households to surrender to Geng Zhong, the prefect of Hanyang.
Emperor An granted Manu a golden seal and purple ribbon, and rewarded each person with a certain amount of gold, silver and colored silk.
In this year, the Qian people Zhong Qiang rebelled against the Hu people in Shangjun and attacked Guluo City. Geng Kui, the general from Liao Dynasty, led troops from various counties and Wuhuan cavalry to rush there and defeated them.
In the autumn of the third year, Longxi County returned to Didao.
Manu's younger brother Xiku came to the throne.
In the first year of Yongjian reign of Emperor Shun, Zhong Qiang in Longxi rebelled. Captain Ma Xian led more than 7,000 people to attack Zhong Qiang. They fought in Lintao and killed more than 1,000 people. The Qiang people all surrendered with their tribesmen.
Ma Xian was granted the title of Marquis of Duxiang. Since then, there has been no war in Liangzhou.
In the fourth year, Shangshu servant Yu Xie submitted a memorial saying: I have heard that descendants worship their ancestors as filial piety, and the king regards peace and stability as a wise thing. This is the reason why Emperor Gaozong of Yin and King Xuan of Zhou were able to offer sacrifices to King Tang and King Wu of Zhou.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
《禹贡》雍州之域，厥田惟上。且沃野千里，谷稼殷积，又有龟兹盐池，以为民利。
水草丰美，土宜产牧，牛马衔尾，群羊塞道。
北阻山河，乘厄据险。
因渠以溉，水舂河漕。用功省少，而军粮饶足。
故孝武皇帝及光武筑朔方，开西河，置上郡，皆为此也。
而遭元元无妄之灾，众羌内溃，郡县兵荒，二十余年。
夫弃沃壤之饶，损自然之财，不可谓利；离河山之阻，守无险之处，难以为固。
今三郡未复，园陵单外，而公卿选懦，容头过身，张解设难，但计所费，不图其安。
宜开圣德，考行所长。
书奏，帝乃复三郡。使谒者郭璜督促徙者，各归旧县，缮城郭，置候驿。
既而激河浚渠，为屯田，省内郡费岁一亿计。
translation: 
In the Yongzhou area mentioned in "Yu Gong", the land is of the highest quality, and there are fertile fields for thousands of miles. There are abundant grain crops and a surplus of crops, and there are also salt ponds in Qiuci that benefit the people.
The water and grass in this area are lush and fertile, the land is suitable for production and grazing, cattle and horses are in groups, end to end, and sheep fill the roads.
There are mountains and the Yellow River as barriers in the north, occupying dangerous terrain.
Using canals to irrigate farmland, using mills to pound rice, and using waterways to transport rice did not take much effort, but the military rations were abundant.
Therefore, Emperor Xiaowu and Guangwu built Shuofang City, opened up the Xihe River, and established Shangjun, all for the sake of saving money.
However, the people encountered inevitable disasters. The Qiang tribes invaded the territory and the counties suffered from war and famine for more than 20 years.
Giving up areas with fertile land and consuming natural resources cannot be called a benefit; leaving the dangers of the Yellow River and high mountains and defending in places without dangerous terrain is really difficult to hold on to.
Now three counties have not been restored, and the gardens and mausoleums are exposed. However, the ministers are weak and cowardly, muddle along, exaggerate as a defense, list many reasons for questioning, and only consider the cost, not the security of the country.
We should activate the grace of the sage and examine and implement the best method.
After the memorial was submitted, the emperor restored the three counties and sent his visitor Guo Huang to urge the relocated counties to return to their original counties, repair the city walls, and set up post houses for reconnaissance of the enemy.
Soon they intercepted the river water and dredged the channels for farming. Each year, the counties in the mainland saved 100 million yuan.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
遂令安定、北地、上郡及陇西、金城常储谷粟，令周数年。
马贤以犀苦兄弟数背叛，因系质于令居。
其冬，贤坐征免，右扶风韩皓代为校尉。
明年，犀苦诣皓，自言求归故地。
皓复不遣，因转湟中屯田，置两河间，以逼群羌。
皓复坐征，张掖太守马续代为校尉。
两河间羌以屯田近之，恐必见图，乃解仇诅盟，各自儆备。
续欲先示恩信，乃上移屯田还湟中，羌意乃安。
至阳嘉元年，以湟中地广，更增置屯田五部，并为十部。
二年夏，夏置陇西南部都尉如旧制。
三年，钟羌良封等复寇陇西、汉阳，诏拜前校尉马贤为谒者，镇抚诸种。
马续遣兵击良封，斩首数百级。
translation: 
Therefore, Anding, Beidi, Shangjun, Longxi, and Jincheng were ordered to always reserve grain, which could last for several years.
Ma Xian imprisoned Xiku brothers in Lingju as hostages because of their repeated betrayals.
In the winter of this year, Ma Xian was called up and dismissed from his post, and Han Hao, You Fufeng, took over as the school captain.
The next year, Xiku went to see Han Hao and asked to be allowed to return to his original place, but Han Hao refused to let him go.
Then Han Hao moved the farms in Huangzhong between the two rivers to oppress the Qiang tribes.
Han Hao was recalled by the court again, and Ma Xu, the prefect of Zhangye, took over as the school captain.
The Qiang people between the two rivers were afraid that they would be plotted because they were approaching them for farming, so they resolved their hatred, formed an alliance and swore an oath, and each took precautions.
Ma Xu wanted to show his kindness and integrity first, so he wrote a letter to move the farmland back to Huangzhong. The Qiang people were relieved.
In the first year of Yangjia, due to the vast land in Huangzhong, five more bureaus were added to farmland, totaling 10 bureaus.
In the summer of the second year, the captaincy of southwestern Longxi was established, which was the same as the previous system.
In the third year, Zhong Qiang Liangfeng and others invaded Longxi and Hanyang again, and issued an edict to appoint Ma Xian, the former captain of the school, as their visitor to appease the various tribes of the Qiang people.
Ma Xu sent troops to attack Liangfeng and killed hundreds of people.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
四年，马贤亦发陇西吏士及羌胡兵击杀良封，斩首千八百级，获马、牛、羊五万余头。良封亲属并诣贤降。
贤复进击钟羌且昌，且昌等率诸种十余万诣凉州刺史降。
永和元年，马续迁度辽将军，复以马贤代为校尉。
初，武都塞上白马羌攻破屯官，反叛连年。
二年春，广汉属国都尉击破之，斩首六百余级，马贤又击斩其渠帅饥指累祖等三百级，于是陇右复平。
明年冬，烧当种那离等三千余骑寇金城塞，马贤将兵赴击，斩首四百余级，获马千四百匹。
那离等复西招羌胡，杀伤吏民。
四年，马贤将湟中义从兵及羌胡万余骑掩击那离等，斩之，获首虏千二百余级，得马、骡、羊十万余头。
征贤为弘农太守，以来机为并州刺史，刘秉为凉州刺史，并当之职。
大将军梁商谓机等曰： 戎狄荒服，蛮夷要服，言其荒忽无常。而统领之道，亦无常法，临事制宜，略依其俗。
translation: 
In four years, Ma Xian also sent soldiers from Longxi and Qianghu troops to attack and kill Liangfeng. He killed 1,800 people and obtained more than 50,000 horses, cattle, and sheep. Liangfeng's relatives and subordinates all surrendered to Ma Xian.
Ma Xian then marched to attack Zhong Qiang's Qechang. Qechang and others led more than 100,000 people from various tribes to surrender to the Liangzhou governor.
In the first year of Yonghe, Ma Xu was transferred to General Du Liao, and the court appointed Ma Xian as the school captain.
At first, the Baima Qiang on the Wudu border attacked and defeated the generals in the field. Rebellious for many years.
In the spring of the second year, the captain of Guanghan's vassal state defeated the Baima Qiang and killed more than 600 people. Ma Xian attacked the Baima Qiang again and killed their leader, Hung Zhi Lai Zu, and 300 people. From then on, Longyou was captured again.
The next winter, more than 3,000 cavalrymen from Shaodangzhong and Nali invaded the Jincheng border fortress. Ma Xian led his army to Jincheng, attacked Nali, killed more than 400 people, and obtained 1,400 horses.
Na Li and others also attracted Qiang and Hu from the west, killing and wounding officials and people.
In four years, Ma Xian led Huangzhong's volunteer soldiers and more than 10,000 Qiang and Hu cavalry to surprise Nali and others, and killed Nali. He killed more than 1,200 Qiang people and obtained more than 100,000 horses, mules, and sheep.
The imperial court recruited Ma Xian to serve as the prefect of Hongnong, appointed Laiji as the governor of Bingzhou, and Liu Bing as the governor of Liangzhou, who will take office together.
General Liang Shang said to Laiji and others: The Rong and Di belong to the Huangfu, and the barbarians belong to the Yao. This means that they are changeable and have no rules, and the method of ruling them has no fixed measures. When encountering specific situations, the corresponding measures are taken, which is roughly based on their customs.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
今三君素性疾恶，欲分明白黑。
孔子曰： 人而不仁，疾之已甚，乱也。 况戎狄乎！
其务安羌胡，防其大故，忍其小过。
机等天性虐刻，遂不能从。
到州之日，多所扰发。
五年夏，且冻、傅难种羌等遂反叛，攻金城，与西塞及湟中杂种羌胡大寇三辅，杀害长吏。
机、秉并坐征。
于是发京师近郡及诸州兵讨之，拜马贤为征西将军，以骑都尉耿叔副，将左右羽林、五校士及诸州郡兵十万人屯汉阳。
又于扶风、汉阳、陇道作坞壁三百所，置屯兵，以保聚百姓。
且冻分遣种人寇武都，烧陇关，掠苑马。
六年春，马贤将五六千骑击之。到射姑山，贤军败，贤及二子皆战殁。
translation: 
Now the three of you have always been jealous of evil and always want to distinguish between right and wrong.
Confucius said: If a person is not benevolent and hates him too much, he will also cause chaos, let alone the people of Rong and Di!
We must keep Qiang and Huan in mind, guard against major changes in their lives, and tolerate their small mistakes.
Laiji and others were born to be cruel and harsh, and ultimately did not listen to Liang Shang's words.
After arriving in the state, he often harassed and recruited Qiang and Hu people.
In the summer of the fifth year, the Qie Dong, Funan Zhong Qiang and other tribes finally rebelled and attacked Jincheng. The Qiang and Hu tribes who lived mixed with Xisai and Huangzhong attacked Sanfu and killed county officials.
Laiji and Liu Bing were recruited for committing crimes together.
The imperial court then fine-tuned the troops from the counties and states near the capital to attack the enemy invaders, appointed Ma Xian as the General of the Western Conquest, and appointed Geng Shu, the Cavalry Commander, as the deputy commander. He led the left and right Yulin Army, soldiers from the five schools, and troops from various states and counties, totaling 100,000 people, to garrison Hanyang.
Three hundred defensive earth forts were built in Fufeng, Hanyang, and Longdao, and soldiers were stationed to protect and gather the people.
Qie Dong sent his tribe's troops to invade Wudu, burned down Longguan, and plundered the horses in the imperial garden.
In the spring of the sixth year, Ma Xian led five or six thousand cavalry to attack Qedong. When they reached Shegu Mountain, Ma Xian's army was defeated, and Ma Xian and his two sons died in the battle.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
顺帝愍之，赐布三千匹，谷千斛，封贤孙光为舞阳亭侯，租入岁百万。
遣侍御史督录征西营兵，存恤死伤。
于是东西羌遂大合。
巩唐种三千余骑寇陇西，又烧园陵，掠关中，杀伤长吏。
阳令任追击，战死。
遣中郎将庞浚募勇士千五百人顿美阳，为凉州援。
武威太守赵冲追击巩唐羌，斩首四百余级，得马、牛、羊、驴万八千余头，羌二千余人降。
诏冲督河西四郡兵为节度。
罕种羌千余寇北地，北地太守贾福与赵冲击之，不利。
秋，诸种八九千骑寇武威，凉部震恐。
于是复徙安定居扶风，北地居冯翊，遣行车骑将军执金吾张乔将左右羽林、五校士及河内、南阳、汝南兵万五千屯三辅。
汉安元年，以赵冲为护羌校尉。
translation: 
Emperor Shun expressed his condolences and gave Ma Xian's family 3,000 pieces of cloth and 1,000 dendrobium grains. He named Ma Xian's grandson Ma Guang the Marquis of Wuyang Pavilion, and his annual tax revenue reached 1 million.
The imperial court sent censors and censors to collect soldiers from each battalion in the expedition to the west and provide condolences and relief to the families of the dead and wounded.
At this time, a great alliance emerged between the Eastern and Western Qiang.
Gong Tangzhong invaded Longxi with more than 3,000 cavalry, burned the gardens and tombs, plundered the Guanzhong area, and killed and wounded county officials.
Heyang ordered Ren Zhan to pursue the Qiang people, but he died in the battle.
The imperial court sent Zhonglang General Pang Jun to recruit 1,500 warriors to garrison Meiyang as backup for Liangzhou.
The prefect of Wuwei rushed to pursue and attack the Gongtang Qiang, killing more than 400 Qiang people, and obtained more than 18,000 horses, cattle, sheep, and donkeys, and more than 2,000 Qiang people surrendered.
The edict asked Inspector Zhao Chong to command the troops in the four counties.
More than 1,000 rare Qiang people attacked the north. The northern prefect Jia Fu and Zhao Chong attacked the rare Qiang people, but the result was unfavorable.
In autumn, eight or nine thousand cavalrymen from various Qiang tribes invaded Wuwei, causing people in Liangzhou to be shaken and panicked.
The imperial court then moved the Anding Prefecture to Fufeng again, and the Beidi Prefecture to Fengyi. It sent General Xingqiqiu and Zhijinwu Zhang Qiao to lead the left and right Yulin troops, soldiers from the fifth school, and troops from Hanoi, Nanyang, and Runan with 15,000 men to garrison Sanfu.
In the first year of Han'an, Zhao Chong was appointed as the captain of the Qiang Protector.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
冲招怀叛羌，罕种乃率邑落五千余户诣冲降。
于是罢张乔军屯。
唯烧何种三千余落据参北界。
三年夏，赵冲与汉阳太守张贡掩击之，斩首千五百级，得牛、羊、驴十八万头。
冬，冲击诸种，斩首四千余级。
诏冲一子为郎。冲复追击于阿阳，斩首八百级。
于是诸种前后三万余户诣凉州刺史降。
建康元年春，护羌从事马玄遂为诸羌所诱，将羌众亡出塞。领护羌校尉卫瑶追击玄等，斩首八百余级，得牛、马、羊二十余万头。
赵冲复追叛羌到建威亶阴河。军度未竟，所将降胡六百余人叛走，冲将数百人追之，遇羌伏兵，与战殁。
冲虽身死，而前后多所斩获，羌由是衰耗。
永嘉元年，封冲子恺义阳亭侯。
以汉阳太守张贡代为校尉。
左冯翊梁稍以恩信招诱之，于是离、狐奴等五万余户诣降，陇右复平，大将军冀之宗人。封为侯，邑二千户。
自永和羌叛，至乎是岁，十余年间，费用八十余亿。
诸将多断盗牢禀，私自润入，皆以珍宝货赂左右，上下放纵，不恤军事，士卒不得其死者，白骨相望于野。
translation: 
Zhao Chong recruited and appeased the rebellious Qiang people, and then Han Zhong led more than 5,000 households of his tribe to surrender to Zhao Chong.
So Zhang Qiao's garrison was withdrawn.
Only the more than 3,000 villages of Shaozhao occupy the northern border of Shenlian.
In the summer of the third year, Zhao Chong and Zhang Gong, the governor of Hanyang, took advantage of his unpreparedness to attack Shaoshu. They killed 1,500 people and obtained 180,000 cattle, sheep, and donkeys.
In winter, Zhao Chong attacked various Qiang tribes and killed more than 4,000 people.
The edict appointed one of Zhao Chong's sons as Lang. Zhao Chong pursued the Qiang people to Ayang and killed 800 Qiang people.
At this time, more than 30,000 households from various Qiang tribes surrendered to the Liangzhou governor.
In the spring of the first year of Jiankang, the Qiang protector Ma Xuan was eventually seduced by the Qiang people. He led many Qiang people to escape from the frontier fortress. He led Wei Yao, the Qiang school captain, to pursue Ma Xuan and others, killing more than 800 people and acquiring more than 200,000 cattle, horses, and sheep.
Zhao Chong pursued the rebellious Qiang people again and reached the Quaiyin River in Jianwei. Before the troops could fully cross the river, more than 600 surrendered Hu people led by Zhao Chong rebelled and fled. Chan Chong led hundreds of people in pursuit and encountered a Qiang ambush. Zhao Chong fought with them and died in battle.
Although Zhao Chong died, he killed many Qiang people and gained a lot. The Qiang people have since declined and been exhausted.
In the first year of Yongjia, the emperor named Zhao Chong's son Zhao Kai as the Marquis of Yiyang Ting.
Zhang Gong, the governor of Hanyang, was appointed as the school captain.
Zuo Feng Yiliang slowly recruited and persuaded the Qiang people with kindness and integrity. As a result, more than 50,000 Qiang households including Li Nan and Hu Nu surrendered to Liang Bin, and Longyou was pacified again. Liang He was the same clan as the general Liang Ji. He was granted the title of Marquis of E and was granted a fief of 2,000 households.
Since the Qiang rebellion in the Yonghe period to this year, more than 8 billion have been spent in more than ten years.
Many of the generals embezzled food and salary, enriched their own pockets, and used treasures to bribe those around the emperor. As a result, they indulged in lawlessness and did not handle military affairs. Some soldiers died unexpectedly, and their bones can be seen everywhere in the fields.


Chunk 37: 
original: 
桓帝建和二年，白马羌寇广汉属国，杀长吏。
是时西羌及湟中胡复畔为寇，益州刺史率板蛮讨破之，斩首招降二十万人。
永寿元年，校尉张贡卒，以前南阳太守第五访代为校尉，甚有威惠，西垂无事。
延熹二年，访卒，以中郎将段代为校尉。
时烧当八种寇陇右，击大破之。
四年，零吾复与先零及上郡沈氐、牢姐诸种并力寇并、凉及三辅。
会段坐事征，以济南相胡闳代为校尉。
闳无威略，羌遂陆梁，覆没营坞，寇患转盛，中郎将皇甫规击破之。
五年，沈氐诸种复寇张掖、酒泉，皇甫规招之，皆降。
事已具《规传》。
鸟吾种复寇汉阳，陇西、金城诸郡兵共击破之，各还降附。
至冬，滇那等五六千人复攻武威、张掖、酒泉，烧民庐舍。
六年，陇西太守孙羌击破之，斩首溺死三千余人。
胡闳疾，复以段为校尉。
永康元年，东羌岸尾等胁同种连寇三辅，中郎将张奂追，破斩之，事已具《奂传》。
当煎羌寇武威，破羌将军段复破灭之，余悉降散。
事已具《传》。
灵帝建宁三年，烧当羌奉使贡献。
中平元年，北地降羌先零种因黄巾大乱，乃与湟中羌、义从胡北宫伯玉等反，寇陇右。
事已见《董卓传》。
兴平元年，冯翊降羌反，寇诸县，郭汜、樊稠击破之，斩首数千级。
translation: 
In the second year of Emperor Huan's establishment of peace, the Baima Qiang invaded the Guanghan vassal state and killed county officials.
At this time, the Hu people in Xiqiang and Huangzhong rebelled and invaded again. The governor of Yizhou led the Banchu barbarian expedition and defeated them. Two hundred thousand Qiang people were killed or surrendered.
In the first year of Yongshou, Zhang Gong, the captain of the school, passed away. The imperial court appointed the former Nanyang prefect Wu Fang as the school captain. The fifth visit was very prestigious and kind, and nothing happened on the western border.
In the second year of Yanxi's reign, Wu Fang died, and the imperial court appointed Zhonglang General Duan Song to take over as the school captain.
At that time, eight Shaodang tribes invaded Longyou, and Duan Huan attacked and defeated the invading Qiang people.
In the fourth year, Lingwu joined forces with Xianling and the Shen Di and Laojie tribes in Shangjun to invade Bingzhou, Liangzhou and Sanfu areas.
Duan Hao happened to be recruited for committing a crime, and the imperial court appointed Hu Hong, the Prime Minister of Jinan, as the school captain.
Hu Hong had no prestige or strategy, so the Qiang people ran rampant and captured military camps and fortresses. The Qiang invasion and disasters became more and more serious. Zhonglang General Huangfu Gui defeated the Qiang people.
Five years later, the Shen Di tribes invaded Zhangye and Jiuquan. Huangfu summoned the Shen Di tribes and they all surrendered.
The matter has been recorded in "Huangfu Gui Zhuan".
Wu Wuzhong invaded Hanyang again. Troops from Longxi and Jincheng counties attacked and defeated Wu Wuzhong. They each returned and surrendered.
In winter, five or six thousand people from Dian Na and others attacked Wuwei, Zhangye, and Jiuquan, burning down people's villages and houses.
In the sixth year, Sun Qiang, the governor of Longxi, defeated Dian Na. More than 3,000 Qiang people were killed or drowned.
When Hu Hong fell ill, the court appointed Duan Fu as the school captain.
In the first year of Yongkang, Kishi Wei and others from Shu Qiang coerced people from the same tribe to continuously attack the Sanfu area. Zhonglang chased Zhang Huan, defeated him and killed Kishi Wei. The incident has been recorded in "The Biography of Zhang Huan".
When the Jianqiang invaded Wuwei, Duan Ying, the general who broke the Qiang, defeated and destroyed the invading Qiang, and the rest surrendered and dispersed.
The matter has been recorded in "Duan Fu Zhuan".
In the third year of Emperor Ling's Jianning reign, Shaodang Qiang sent envoys to pay tribute.
In the first year of Zhongping, the Qiang Xianlingzhong who surrendered in the north took advantage of the Yellow Turban chaos, so they rebelled with Huangzhong Qiang, Yicong Hubeigong Boyu and others and invaded Longyou.
The incident is recorded in "The Biography of Dong Zhuo".
In the first year of Xingnuo, the Qiang people who surrendered under Feng Xiang rebelled and invaded various counties. Guo Bang and Fan Chou defeated them and killed thousands of Qiang people.


Chunk 38: 
original: 
自爰剑后，子孙支分，凡百五十种。
其九种在赐支河首以西，及在蜀、汉徼北，前史不载口数。
唯参狼在武都，胜兵数千人。
其五十二种衰少，不能自立，分散为附落，或绝灭无后，或引而远去。
其八十九种，唯钟最强，胜兵十余万。
其余大者万余人，小者数千人，更相抄盗，盛衰无常，无虑顺帝时胜兵合可二十万人。
发羌、唐旄等绝远，未尝往来。
牛、白马羌在蜀、汉，其种别名号，皆不可纪知也。
建武十三年，广汉塞外白马羌豪楼登等率种人五千余户内属，光武封楼登为归义君长。
至和帝永元六年，蜀郡徼外大牂夷种羌豪造头等率种人五十余万口内属，拜造头为邑君长，赐印绶。
至安帝永初元年，蜀郡徼外羌龙桥等六种万七千二百八十口内属。
明年，蜀郡徼外羌薄申等八种三万六千九百口复举土内属。
冬，广汉塞外参狼种羌二千四百口复来内属。
translation: 
Since Yuan Ren, his descendants have divided into a total of 150 tribes.
Among them, nine tribes are located west of the head of the Cizhi River and north of the border between Shu and Han. Their population numbers are not recorded in previous history books.
Only Shenlang Qiang is in Wudu and has thousands of men capable of fighting.
There are fifty-two tribes that are weak and have few people and cannot be independent. They are scattered into subordinate tribes. Some of them have completely declined and have no descendants, and some have moved away.
Among its eighty-nine tribes, only Zhong Qiang is the most powerful, with more than 100,000 people capable of fighting.
Other tribes range in size from tens of thousands to thousands. They plunder and invade each other, and their strength and decline are ever-changing. During the reign of Emperor Shun, the total number of Qiang people capable of fighting was approximately 200,000.
The Faqiang, Tangyan and other tribes were very far away and had no contact with them.
The names of the tribes of Li Niu and Baima Qiang in Shu and Han cannot be known or recorded.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Lou Deng, leader of the Baima Qiang outside the Great Wall of Guanghan, and others led more than 5,000 Qiang households of his tribe to surrender to the imperial court. Guangwu granted Lou Deng the title of Lord Commander of Guiyi.
In the fifth and sixth year of Emperor He's reign, Zaotou and others, a fat Yi Qiang leader outside the borders of Shu County, led more than 500,000 people of the same tribe to surrender to the imperial court. Emperor He appointed Zaotou as the chief of the city and gave him a seal.
By the first year of Yongchu reign of Emperor An, 17,280 people from six tribes including Longqiao and other Qiang tribes outside the borders of Shushu had surrendered to the imperial court.
The next year, 36,900 people from eight tribes including the Qiang Bo Shen outside the borders of Shu County surrendered the entire area to the imperial court.
In winter, 2,400 Qiang people from the Shenlang tribe outside the Guanghan border came to submit to the imperial court.


Chunk 39: 
original: 
桓帝建和二年，白马羌千余人寇广汉属国，杀长吏，益州刺史率板蛮讨破之。
湟中月氏胡，其先大月氏之别也，旧在张掖、酒泉地。
月氏王为匈奴冒顿所杀，余种分散，西逾葱领。
其羸弱者南入山阻，依诸羌居止，遂与共婚姻。
及骠骑将军霍去病破匈奴，取西河地，开湟中，于是月氏来降，与汉人错居。
虽依附县官，而首施两端。其从汉兵战斗，随势强弱。
被服饮食言语略与羌同，亦以父名母姓为种。
其大种有七，胜兵合九千余人，分在湟中及令居。
又数百户在张掖，号曰义从胡。
中平元年，与北宫伯玉等反，杀护羌校尉泠征、金城太守陈懿，遂寇乱陇右焉。
论曰：羌戎之患，自三代尚矣。
汉世方之匈奴，颇为衰寡，而中兴以后，边难渐大。
朝规失绥御之和，戎师骞然诺之信。
其内属者，或倥偬之豪右之手，或屈折于奴仆之勤。
translation: 
In the second year of Emperor Huan's establishment of peace, more than a thousand Baima Qiang invaded the Guanghan vassal state and killed county officials. The Yizhou governor led the Banchu barbarians to defeat the invading Baima Qiang.
The Yuezhi Hu in Huangzhong was originally another branch of the Da Yuezhi. Was it retreating in the past? Leg area resides.
King Yuezhi was killed by Bao Shuandun, and the remaining tribes dispersed and crossed Congling to the west.
Among them, the weak ones went south into the mountains, lived among the Qiang tribes, and intermarried with the Qiang people.
When Husband General Huo Qubing defeated the Xiongnu, captured the Xihe area, and opened up Huangzhong, the Yuezhi came to surrender and lived mixed with the Han people.
Although they relied on the imperial court, they hesitated to wait and see. They followed the Han army to fight, and their fighting intensity also changed with the strength of the Han army's situation.
Their clothing, food, and language are roughly the same as those of the Qiang people, and they also use their father's name and mother's surname as tribal titles.
There are seven large tribes, and the total number of those who can fight is more than 9,000, distributed in Huangzhong and Lingju.
There are still hundreds of households in Zhangye, called Yiconghu.
In the first year of Zhongping, they rebelled with Beigong Boyu and others, killing Ling Zheng, the captain of the Qiang Protector, and Chen Yi, the prefect of Jincheng, and then invaded Longyou to cause chaos.
On Japan: The Qiang and Rong have been causing harm for a long time since the third generation.
During the Han Dynasty, they were quite weak compared to the Xiongnu, but after the Guangwu Zhongxing, their harm to the border gradually became serious.
The imperial court made mistakes in appeasing, governing and harmonizing the Qiang and Rong, and the army generals also violated their promises and trustworthiness.
Some of the Qiang people who surrendered to the imperial court fell into poverty and embarrassment in the hands of the powerful, and some were forced to work as slaves and do manual labor.


Chunk 40: 
original: 
塞候时清，则愤怒而思祸；桴革暂动，则属鞬以鸟惊。
故永初之间，群种蜂起。
遂解仇嫌，结盟诅，招引山豪，转相啸聚，揭木为兵，负柴为械。
毂马扬埃，陆梁于三辅；建号称制，恣睢于北地。
东犯赵、魏之郊，南入汉、蜀之鄙，塞湟中，断陇道，烧陵园，剽城市，伤败踵系，羽书日闻。
并、凉之士，特冲残毙，壮悍则委身于兵场，女妇则徽纆而为虏，发冢露胔，死生涂炭。
自西戎作逆，未有陵斥上国若斯其炽也。
和熹以女君亲政，威不外接。朝议惮兵力之损，情存苟安。
或以边州难援，宜见捐弃；或惧疽食浸淫，莫知所限。
谋夫回遑，猛士疑虑，遂徙西河四郡之人，杂寓关右之县。
发屋伐树，塞其恋土之心；燔破赀积，以防顾还之思。
translation: 
Sometimes when the border reconnaissance is peaceful, they will be angry and try to cause chaos; once drums and drums and military revolution suddenly arise, they will hang their quivers and panic like birds.
Therefore, during the Yongchu period, the various tribes of the Qiang people protruded like a swarm of bees.
So they resolved their hatreds, made alliances and swore an oath, attracted powerful people from the mountains, and then greeted each other and gathered together, holding up trees as weapons and carrying firewood as shields.
The military chariots and war horses raised dust and ran rampant in the Sanfu area; they usurped the name of the emperor and wreaked havoc in the north.
They invaded the suburbs of Zhao and Wei to the east, entered the borders of Han and Shu to the south, blocked Huangzhong, cut off the road to Longxi, burned cemeteries, and plundered the city. News of casualties and defeats continued, and urgent documents were sent to the court every day.
The scholars in Bingzhou and Liangzhou were particularly tortured and killed. The able-bodied men were committed to the battlefield, while the women were tied up and made prisoners. Tombs were dug up, corpses were exposed, and both the dead and the living were destitute.
Since the rebellion of Xirong, no great country has been invaded and bullied so cruelly.
Queen Hexi was in charge of the government as a female protagonist and did not interact with foreign countries. The opinions in the court were afraid of losing troops and wanted to live in peace.
Some people think that it is difficult for border states to provide assistance and they should be abandoned; some people are worried about the spread of disaster and do not know where the end will be.
The people who made plans hesitated and hesitated, and the brave men also had doubts. As a result, the people from the four counties of Xihe were moved to the counties of Guanyou to live mixedly.
They demolished houses and cut down trees to stop people from thinking about their past; they burned their savings and destroyed their property to prevent them from thinking about coming back.


Chunk 41: 
original: 
于是诸将邓骘、任尚、马贤、皇甫规、张奂之徒，争设雄规，更奉征讨之命，征兵会众，以图其隙。
驰骋东西，奔救首尾，摇动数州之境，日耗千金之资。
至于假人增赋，借奉侯王，引金钱缣彩之珍，征粮粟盐铁之积。
所以赂遗购赏，转输劳来之费，前后数十巨万。
或枭克酋健，摧破附落，降俘载路，牛羊满山。军书未奏其利害，而离叛之状已言矣。
故得不酬失，功不半劳。
暴露师徒，连年而无所胜。官人屈竭，烈士愤丧。
段受事，专掌军任，资山西之猛性，练戎俗之态情，穷武思尽飙锐以事之。
被羽前登，身当百死之阵；蒙没冰雪，经履千折之道。始殄西种，卒定东寇。
若乃陷击之所歼伤，追走之所崩籍，头颅断落于万丈之山，支革判解于重崖之上，不可校计。
其能穿窜草石，自脱于锋镞者，百不一二。
translation: 
At this time, many generals such as Deng Lu, Ren Shang, Ma Xian, Huangfu Gui, Zhang Huan and others were vying to plan grand strategies. They also accepted the imperial court's order to conquer the Western Qiang and mobilized troops.
They galloped east and west, busy rescuing each other head to tail. The army shocked several states and cost thousands of gold every day.
It developed to the point of increasing population taxes, borrowing salaries from princes, collecting money and precious colored silks, and collecting grain, salt and iron as savings.
The cost of bribing beauties and offering rewards, transporting and comforting those who came to seek refuge, cost hundreds of thousands.
Sometimes, although the Qiang chiefs were killed and defeated, their affiliated tribes were destroyed, the surrendered Qiang people and prisoners were all over the road, and the cattle and sheep obtained were all over the mountains and fields, the military documents did not report the victory and loss, while the Qiang rebellion had been reported first.
Therefore, the gains outweigh the losses, and the achievements are not worth half of the expenditure.
The army was outside and failed to win for many years. The officials were exhausted and the heroes died of grief and anger.
Duan Yi accepted the appointment and was in charge of military affairs. With his Shanxi brave personality and familiarity with the customs and moods of Xirong, he devised strategies and deployed all his elite troops to deal with the Qiang Rong.
Duan bent forward with his bow and arrows on his back and charged forward. He risked his life hundreds of times, faced the ice and snow, and walked through hundreds of twists and turns in the mountain roads before annihilating the Western Qiang people and finally pacifying the enemy invaders.
As for those who were killed and injured while charging into battle, those who were crushed and trampled during pursuit and escape, those whose heads were chopped off at the bottom of mountains thousands of feet deep, and those whose limbs were separated on thousands of cliffs, it is impossible to count.
Those who were able to escape through grass and rocks and protect themselves from swords and arrows could not exceed one or two out of a hundred people.


Chunk 42: 
original: 
而张奂盛称 戎狄一气所生，不宜诛尽，流血污野，伤和致妖 。
是何言之迂乎！
羌虽外患，实深内疾，若攻之不根，是养疾疴于心腹也。
惜哉寇敌略定矣，而汉祚亦衰焉。
呜呼！
昔先王疆理九土，判别畿荒，知夷貊殊性，难以道御，故斥远诉华，薄其贡职，唯与辞要而已。
若二汉御戎之方，失其本矣。
何则？
先零侵境，赵充国迁之内地；煎当作寇，马文渊徙之三辅。
贪其暂安之势，信其驯服之情，计日用之权宜，忘经世之远略，岂夫识微者之为乎？
故微子垂泣于象箸，辛有浩叹于伊川也。
赞曰：金行气刚，播生西羌。
氐豪分种，遂用殷强。
虔刘陇北，假泾阳。
朝劳内谋，兵惫外攘。
translation: 
However, Zhang Huan strongly advocated that Rong Di and we were born from the same energy, and they should not all be killed. Bloodshed would stain the wilderness, which would destroy the coordination of yin and yang and lead to monsters.
What a pedantic statement!
Although the Qiang people are suffering from external diseases, they are actually very deep internal diseases. If they are not treated at the root, they will keep the disease in their hearts.
Unfortunately, the enemy invaders were largely suppressed, and Han's imperial fortune also declined.
Alas!
In the past, the former kings governed the nine states and divided the kingdoms and outlying areas. They knew that the barbarians had different temperaments and were difficult to control morally, so they excluded them from China, reduced their tribute, and only made alliances with them.
The methods used by Qian Mo and Hou Mo to control Xirong are fundamentally wrong.
Why?
When Ling invaded the border, Tachong's troops invaded the hinterland; when Jiandang invaded, Ma Wenyuan moved Jiandang to Sanfu.
They are greedy for temporary stability, believe that the Qiang people can be tamed, calculate the expediency of daily expenses, and forget the long-term strategy of governing world affairs. Is this what people who understand the subtleties do?
So Wei Zi shed tears when he saw the ivory chopsticks, and Xin Gen Zheng Tan Cong sighed.
Zan said: The Qi of Jin Xing was strong and spread, giving birth to Xiqiang.
The chieftains of Di Chai separated their tribes and became stronger in the end.
They killed and plundered in the north of Yingnai, and arrogated the title of king in Jingmo.
The court worked hard and was busy making plans; the army was exhausted and unable to retreat from the enemy outside.


