Chunk 0: 
original: 
商君者，卫之诸庶孽公子也，名鞅，姓公孙氏，其祖本姬姓也。
鞅少好刑名之学，事魏相公叔痤为中庶子。
公叔痤知其贤，未及进。
会痤病，魏惠王亲往问病，曰： 公叔病有如不可讳，将柰社稷何？
公叔曰： 座之中庶子公孙鞅，年虽少，有奇才，原王举国而听之。
王嘿然。
王且去，座屏人言曰： 王即不听用鞅，必杀之，无令出境。
王许诺而去。
公叔痤召鞅谢曰： 今者王问可以为相者，我言若，王色不许我。
我方先君後臣，因谓王即弗用鞅，当杀之。
王许我。
汝可疾去矣，且见禽。
鞅曰： 彼王不能用君之言任臣，又安能用君之言杀臣乎？
卒不去。
惠王既去，而谓左右曰： 公叔病甚，悲乎，欲令寡人以国听公孙鞅也，既又劝寡人杀之，岂不悖哉！
公叔既死，公孙鞅闻秦孝公下令国中求贤者，将修缪公之业，东复侵地，乃遂西入秦，因孝公宠臣景监以求见孝公。
孝公既见卫鞅，语事良久，孝公时时睡，弗听。
罢而孝公怒景监曰： 子之客妄人耳，安足用邪！
景监以让卫鞅。
卫鞅曰: 吾说公以帝道，其智不开悟矣。
后五日，复求见鞅。
鞅复见孝公，益愈，然而未中旨。
罢而孝公复让景监，景监亦让鞅。
鞅曰： 吾说公以王道而未入也。
请复见鞅。
鞅复见孝公，孝公善之而未用也。
罢而去。孝公谓景监曰： 汝客善，可与语矣。
鞅曰： 吾说公以霸道，其意欲用之矣。
诚复见我，我知之矣。
卫鞅复见孝公。公与语，不自知跶之前於席也。语数日不厌。
景监曰： 子何以中吾君？
吾君之驩甚也。 鞅曰： 吾说君以帝王之道比三代，而君曰： 久远，吾不能待。且贤君者，各及其身显名天下，安能邑邑待数十百年以成帝王乎？
故吾以彊国之术说君，君大说之耳。
然亦难以比德於殷周矣。
孝公既用卫鞅，鞅欲变法，恐天下议己。
卫鞅曰： 疑行无名，疑事无功。
translation: 
Lord Shang was the son of the concubine Ji of the Kingdom of Wei. His name is Yang Yang and his surname is Gongsun. His ancestor’s original surname was Ji.
When he was young, Gongsun Yang was interested in the study of criminal names and magic. He served his uncle, the Prime Minister of Wei State, and served as the middle concubine.
The uncle knew that he was a virtuous man, but he had not yet had time to recommend him to the king of Wei.
Just when the uncle was sick, King Wei Hui went to visit him personally and said, "What will happen to the country if something unexpected happens to your illness?"
The uncle replied: My bastard son Gongsun Yang is young, but he is talented. I hope that the king can hand over all the affairs of the country to him and let him govern.
King Wei Hui was silent after hearing this.
When King Hui of Wei was about to leave, the uncle withdrew his entourage and said: If the king does not use Gongsun Yang, he must be killed and not allowed to leave the country.
King Wei agreed to his request and left.
The uncle summoned Gongsun Yang and apologized: Just now, the king asked about people who could serve as prime minister, and I recommended you. Judging from the look on his face, the king will not agree with my suggestion.
I must first be loyal to the king and then consider the position of the minister, so I advise the king that if Gongsun Martingale is not appointed, he should be killed.
The king agreed to my request.
You should leave quickly, otherwise you will be captured soon.
Gongsun Yang said: Since the king cannot listen to you and appoint me, how can he listen to you and kill me?
In the end, he did not leave Wei State.
After King Hui left, he said to his attendants: "The uncle's illness is very serious, which is really sad. He wants me to hand over all the affairs of the country to Gongsun Yang, and after that, he persuades me to kill him. Isn't this very confusing?"
Shortly after Gongshu Zuo's death, Gongsun Yang heard that Duke Xiao of Qin ordered to search for talented people throughout the country in order to restore the hegemony of Duke Mu of Qin and regain the lost territory in the east. He went west to enter the Qin State and relied on Duke Xiao's favored minister Jing Jian to seek an audience with Duke Xiao.
Duke Xiao summoned Wei Yang and asked him to talk about state affairs for a long time. Duke Xiao fell asleep while listening and couldn't listen at all.
Afterwards, Duke Xiao was angry with Jingjian and said: "Your guest is a bully. How can you appoint such a person?"
Jing Jian again used Xiao Gong's words to blame Wei Yang.
Wei Yang said: I used the methods of Yao and Shun to persuade the king, but his mind could not understand.
A few days later, Jing Jian asked Duke Xiao to summon Wei Yang.
When Wei Yang met with Duke Xiao, he explained the way of governing the country incisively and vividly, but it was not in line with Duke Xiao's wishes.
Afterwards, Duke Xiao blamed Jing Jian again, and Jing Jian also blamed Wei Yang.
Wei Yang said: I used the methods of Yu, Tang, Wen and Wu to persuade the king, but he would not listen.
Ask him to summon me again.
Wei Yang met Duke Xiao again. Duke Xiao was very friendly to him, but he did not use him.
After exiting the meeting, Xiaogong said to Jingjian: Your guest is good. I can talk to him.
Jing Jian told Wei Yang, and Wei Yang said: I used the Five Hegemons' methods of governing the country to convince the king, and I saw that he was ready to adopt it.
If you summon me again, I'll know what to say.
So Wei Yang met Duke Xiao again, and Duke Xiao had a very good conversation with him. He unknowingly moved his knees forward on the mat, and they talked for several days without feeling tired.
Jing Jian said: How can you win over the king? Our king is very happy.
Wei Yang replied: I advised the king to adopt the imperial method of governing the country and establish a prosperous age like Xia, Shang and Zhou. However, the king said: The time is too long, I can't wait, let alone a wise king. Who doesn't want to be famous when he is in power? How can I be asked to wait in obscurity for decades or hundreds of years to achieve the great cause of becoming an emperor?
Therefore, I used the method of enriching the country and strengthening the army to persuade him, and he was very happy.
However, this cannot be compared with the virtues of Yin and Zhou.
Shortly after Qin Xiaogong appointed Wei Yang, he planned to change the laws, but he was also worried that people in the world would talk about him.
Wei Yang said: If you hesitate in action, you will not become famous; if you hesitate in doing things, you will not succeed.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
且夫有高人之行者，固见非于世；有独知之虑者，必见敖於民。
愚者闇於成事，知者见於未萌。
民不可与虑始而可与乐成。
论至德者不和於俗，成大功者不谋於众。
是以圣人苟可以彊国，不法其故；苟可以利民，不循其礼。 孝公曰： 善。
甘龙曰： 不然。
圣人不易民而教，知者不变法而治。
因民而教，不劳而成功；缘法而治者，吏习而民安之。
卫鞅曰： 龙之所言，世俗之言也。
常人安於故俗，学者溺於所闻。
以此两者居官守法可也，非所与论於法之外也。
三代不同礼而王，五伯不同法而霸。
智者作法，愚者制焉；贤者更礼，不肖者拘焉。
杜挚曰： 利不百，不变法；功不十，不易器。
法古无过，循礼无邪。
卫鞅曰： 治世不一道，便国不法古。
故汤武不循古而王，夏殷不易礼而亡。
反古者不可非，而循礼者不足多。 孝公曰： 善。
以卫鞅为左庶长，卒定变法之令。
令民为什伍，而相牧司连坐。
不告奸者腰斩，告奸者与斩敌首同赏，匿奸者与降敌同罚。
民有二男以上不分异者，倍其赋。
有军功者，各以率受上爵；为私斗者，各以轻重被刑大小。
僇力本业，耕织致粟帛多者复其身。
事末利及怠而贫者，举以为收孥。
宗室非有军功论，不得为属籍。
明尊卑爵秩等级，各以差次名田宅，臣妾衣服以家次。
有功者显荣，无功者虽富无所芬华。
translation: 
Moreover, behavior that goes beyond ordinary people is often criticized by the world; people with unique opinions will definitely be laughed at by ordinary people.
Foolish people cannot figure it out after it happens, but smart people can foresee what is going to happen in advance.
You cannot plan the creation of new things with the people but you can share the joy of success with them.
Those who pursue the highest morality do not collude with the world, and those who achieve great achievements do not collude with ordinary people.
Therefore, as long as the saint can make the country strong and prosperous, there is no need to follow the old rituals; as long as it can benefit the people, there is no need to follow the old rituals. Duke Xiao said: Well said.
Qianlong said: That's not the case.
The sage imparts education without changing the folk customs; the wise man governs the country without changing the established laws.
If you follow the customs of the people and impart education, you will be successful without any effort; if you follow the established laws and govern the country, the officials will be accustomed to it and the people will be stable.
Wei Yang said: What Qianlong said is a secular saying.
Most people are content with old customs, while scholars stick to what they see in books.
It's okay for these two types of people to abide by the law, but you can't talk to them about reforms other than the established law.
The three dynasties had different ritual systems but they were able to unify the world; the five uncles had different legal systems but they were able to dominate each other.
Wise people make laws, and stupid people are restricted by them; wise people change rituals, and ordinary people are restricted by rituals.
Du Zhi said: Without a hundred times the benefit, the law cannot be changed; without ten times the effect, the old instrument cannot be replaced.
There is no fault in imitating the established laws, and there is no deviation in following the old rites.
Wei Yang said: There is no fixed way to govern a country, and it is beneficial to the country not to follow the old laws.
Therefore, Tang and Wu were able to rule the world without following the old laws, and Xia and Yin perished without replacing the old rituals.
Those who oppose the old laws cannot be criticized, but those who follow the old rituals are not worthy of praise. Duke Xiao said: Well said.
So Wei Yang was appointed as the chief of Zuo Shu, and finally the order to change the law was made.
Wei Yang ordered the people to be organized into ten families into one clan, and five families into one team, to supervise and report each other. If one family breaks the law, the ten families will be jointly punished.
Those who do not report evil will be punished by being cut off from the waist; those who report evil will be rewarded the same as beheading the enemy; those who hide evil will be punished the same as those who surrender to the enemy.
If there are more than two adult men in a family, the tax will be doubled if there are no separate households.
Those with military merit will be promoted and rewarded according to the standards; those who fight over private matters will be sentenced to different punishments according to the severity of the case.
Those who are committed to agricultural production and have a good harvest of grain and increased production of cloth are exempted from labor or taxes.
Those who were poor due to being engaged in industry, commerce or laziness had them and their wives confiscated as official slaves.
Those in the royal family who have no military merit cannot be included in the family roster.
The hierarchy of titles and titles was clarified, and each family occupied land and real estate according to their grade. The clothes and clothing of retainers and servants were determined according to the title and grade of each family.
Those who have military merit are distinguished and glorious, but those who do not have military merit cannot show glory even if they are very rich.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
令既具，未布，恐民之不信，已乃立三丈之木於国都市南门，募民有能徙置北门者予十金。
民怪之，莫敢徙。
复曰 能徙者予五十金 。
有一人徙之，辄予五十金，以明不欺。
卒下令。
令行於民期年，秦民之国都言初令之不便者以千数。
於是太子犯法。
卫鞅曰： 法之不行，自上犯之。
将法太子。
太子，君嗣也，不可施刑，刑其傅公子虔，黥其师公孙贾。
明日，秦人皆趋令。
行之十年，秦民大说，道不拾遗，山无盗贼，家给人足。
民勇於公战，怯於私斗，乡邑大治。
秦民初言令不便者有来言令便者，卫鞅曰 此皆乱化之民也 ，尽迁之於边城。
其後民莫敢议令。
於是以鞅为大良造。
将兵围魏安邑，降之。
居三年，作为筑冀阙宫庭於咸阳，秦自雍徙都之。
而令民父子兄弟同室内息者为禁。
而集小乡邑聚为县，置令、丞，凡三十一县。
为田开阡陌封疆，而赋税平。
平斗桶权衡丈尺。
行之四年，公子虔复犯约，劓之。
居五年，秦人富彊，天子致胙於孝公，诸侯毕贺。
其明年，齐败魏兵於马陵，虏其太子申，杀将军庞涓。
其明年，卫鞅说孝公曰： 秦之与魏，譬若人之有腹心疾，非魏并秦，秦即并魏。
何者？
魏居领厄之西，都安邑，与秦界河而独擅山东之利。
利则西侵秦，病则东收地。
今以君之贤圣，国赖以盛。
而魏往年大破於齐，诸侯畔之，可因此时伐魏。
魏不支秦，必东徙。
translation: 
The new law was ready but had not yet been announced. Worried that the people would not believe it, Wei Yang erected a three-foot-long log at the south gate of the market behind the capital, and recruited people who could move the log to the north gate and rewarded them with ten gold coins.
The people thought this was strange and no one dared to touch it.
He also announced that anyone who could move the wood to the north gate would be rewarded fifty gold.
A man moved it away and immediately gave him fifty gold to show that he would do what he ordered and would never cheat.
New laws were enacted afterwards.
The new law was implemented among the people for a whole year. Thousands of people from Qin State came to the country and said that the new law was not suitable.
At this time, the prince violated the new law.
Wei Yang said: The new law cannot be implemented smoothly because the people at the top violate it.
The prince will be punished according to the new law.
The prince was the heir to the monarch and could not impose punishment, so he punished Gongzi Qian, the teacher who supervised his behavior, and Gongsun Jia, the teacher who imparted knowledge to him, with ink punishment.
The next day, all the people of Qin implemented the new law.
Ten years after the new law was implemented, the people of Qin were very happy. No one picked up other people's lost things on the road, there were no thieves in the mountains and forests, and every family was rich and sufficient.
The people have the courage to fight for the country and dare not fight for personal gain. There is order in the villages and towns.
The people of Qin who initially said that the new law was not suitable also said that the law was suitable. Wei Yang said: "These are the people who disturb the enlightenment, so he moved them all to the border areas."
After that, no one among the people dared to discuss the new law.
So Wei Yang was appointed as Daliang Zao.
He led the army to besiege Anyi of Wei State and forced them to surrender.
Three years later, the Qin State built a palace city in Xianyang and moved the capital from Yongdi to Xianyang.
It was ordered that fathers, sons, and brothers of the common people were not allowed to live in the same room.
Sporadic towns and villages were merged into counties, and county magistrates and county magistrates were set up. A total of thirty-one counties were merged and divided.
Abolish well fields and redraw the boundaries of farmland, encourage the reclamation of wasteland, and balance taxes.
Unify the national weights and measures system.
After four years of implementation, Gongzi Qian violated the new law again and was sentenced to death.
Five years later, when the Qin state became prosperous and powerful, the Emperor of Zhou gave the sacrificial meat to Duke Xiao of Qin, and princes from all over the world came to congratulate him.
The next year, Qi's army defeated Wei's army in Maling, captured Wei's crown prince Shen, and killed general Pang Juan.
Another year later, Wei Yang persuaded Qin Xiaogong: The relationship between Qin and Wei is like a person suffering from a heart disease. Either Wei annexes Qin, or Qin annexes Wei.
Why do you say that?
The Wei State was located to the west of the high mountains, with its capital in Anyi. The Yellow River was the boundary with the Qin State and it monopolized the geographical advantage east of Mount Wei.
When the situation is favorable, they will invade the Qin State to the west, and when the situation is unfavorable, they will expand their territory eastward.
Now, with the help of the king's virtuous and sage wisdom, Qin is prosperous.
The Wei State was severely defeated by Qi last year, and the princes betrayed it one after another. They can take this opportunity to attack Wei State.
Wei cannot resist Qin and will definitely retreat eastward.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
东徙，秦据河山之固，东乡以制诸侯，此帝王之业也。
孝公以为然，使卫鞅将而伐魏。
魏使公子卬将而击之。
军既相距，卫鞅遗魏将公子卬书曰： 吾始与公子驩，今俱为两国将，不忍相攻，可与公子面相见，盟，乐饮而罢兵，以安秦魏。
魏公子卬以为然。
会盟已，饮，而卫鞅伏甲士而袭虏魏公子卬，因攻其军，尽破之以归秦。
魏惠王兵数破於齐秦，国内空，日以削，恐，乃使使割河西之地献於秦以和。
而魏遂去安邑，徙都大梁。
梁惠王曰： 寡人恨不用公叔座之言也。
卫鞅既破魏还，秦封之於、商十五邑，号为商君。
商君相秦十年，宗室贵戚多怨望者。
赵良见商君。
商君曰： 鞅之得见也，从孟兰皋，今鞅请得交，可乎？
赵良曰： 仆弗敢原也。
孔丘有言曰： 推贤而戴者进，聚不肖而王者退。
仆不肖，故不敢受命。
仆闻之曰： 非其位而居之曰贪位，非其名而有之曰贪名。
仆听君之义，则恐仆贪位贪名也。
故不敢闻命。
商君曰： 子不说吾治秦与？
赵良曰： 反听之谓聪，内视之谓明，自胜之谓强。
虞舜有言曰： 自卑也尚矣。
君不若道虞舜之道，无为问仆矣。
商君曰： 始秦戎翟之教，父子无别，同室而居。
今我更制其教，而为其男女之别，大筑冀阙，营如鲁卫矣。
子观我治秦也，孰与五羖大夫贤？
赵良曰： 千羊之皮，不如一狐之腋；千人之诺诺，不如一士之谔谔。
武王谔谔以昌，殷纣墨墨以亡。
君若不非武王乎，则仆请终日正言而无诛，可乎？
商君曰： 语有之矣，貌言华也，至言实也，苦言药也，甘言疾也。
translation: 
Once it retreats to the east, Qin will occupy the dangerous terrain of the Yellow River and Huashan Mountain, and can control the princes and countries to the east. This is the great cause of the emperor to unify the world.
Qin Xiaogong thought it was right and sent Wei Yang to lead an army to attack Wei.
The state of Wei sent its son Yan to lead troops to attack the Qin army.
When the two armies met and confronted each other, Wei Yang sent someone to send a letter to the general of the Wei army, Gongzi Yan, writing: I had a good relationship with the young master at the beginning, but now you and I are generals of two hostile countries and cannot bear to attack each other. Can we meet the young master in person, conclude an alliance, have a few drinks, and then withdraw our troops, so that both Qin and Wei will be in peace.
Wei Gongzi Yan thought that Wei Yang was right.
The two made an alliance, and then held a banquet and drank wine. However, the armored warriors who had been ambushed by Wei Yang suddenly attacked and captured Wei Gongzi Yan. They took the opportunity to attack his army, completely defeated the Wei army, and escorted Gongzi Yan back to the country.
King Wei Hui's army was defeated by Qi and Qin many times, leaving the country empty. Wei was getting weaker day by day. King Wei Hui was very panicked, so he sent envoys to cede the Hexi region to Qin in order to seek reconciliation.
Wei then evacuated Anyi and moved its capital to Daliang.
King Wei Hui said: I really regret not taking the advice of Gongshu Zuo.
After Wei Yang returned from defeating the Wei army, Qin Xiaogong granted him fifteen cities in the Yu and Shang areas, with the title Lord Shang.
Lord Shang served as Prime Minister of Qin for ten years, and many princes and nobles resented him.
Zhao Liang went to see Shang Jun.
Shang Jun said: I can see you because of Meng Langao's introduction. Now I ask to make friends with you, is that okay?
Zhao Liang replied: I don't dare to hope.
Confucius said: Recommend the virtuous and those who are supported by the people will come; gather the unworthy, and even those who can become kings will retreat.
I am not talented, so I dare not obey my orders.
I have heard this saying: Holding a position you shouldn't have is called position greed, and enjoying a reputation you shouldn't have is called fame greed.
If I accept your friendship, I am afraid that I am greedy for both position and fame.
So I dare not obey my orders.
Shang Yang said: Are you unhappy with how I govern Qin?
Zhao Liang said: Being able to listen to other people's opinions is called cleverness, being able to self-examine is called Ming, and being able to restrain oneself is called strong.
Yu Shun once said: People who are humble are respected by others.
You might as well follow Yu Shun's advice without asking me.
Shang Yang said: At the beginning, the customs of Qin were the same as those of Rong and Di. Father and son were not separated, and men, women, old and young lived in the same room.
Now I have changed the culture of Qin, made them separate men and women, and made them live separately. I built a large palace and city, and made Qin look like Lu and Wei.
Do you think I am more capable in governing the state of Qin than Dr. Wuxi?
Zhao Liang said: A thousand sheepskins are not as valuable as a fox armpit, and a thousand people who follow the advice are not as valuable as one person who speaks out.
King Wu allowed his ministers to express their opinions frankly, and the country prospered. King Zhou did not like his ministers to give advice, so he perished.
If you don't object to King Wu of Zhou's actions, then please allow me to speak frankly in my poem without being blamed, okay?
Shang Jun said: As the saying goes, words that appear pleasant are like flowers, words that are true and sincere are like fruits, words that are bitter and unpleasant to the ear are good medicine for curing diseases, and words that are flattering are diseases.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
夫子果肯终日正言，鞅之药也。
鞅将事子，子又何辞焉！
赵良曰： 夫五羖大夫，荆之鄙人也。
闻秦缪公之贤而原望见，行而无资，自粥於秦客，被褐食牛。
期年，缪公知之，举之牛口之下，而加之百姓之上，秦国莫敢望焉。
相秦六七年，而东伐郑，三置晋国之君，一救荆国之祸。
发教封内，而巴人致贡；施德诸侯，而八戎来服。
由余闻之，款关请见。
五羖大夫之相秦也，劳不坐乘，暑不张盖，行於国中，不从车乘，不操干戈，功名藏於府库，德行施於後世。
五羖大夫死，秦国男女流涕，童子不歌谣，舂者不相杵。
此五羖大夫之德也。
今君之见秦王也，因嬖人景监以为主，非所以为名也。
相秦不以百姓为事，而大筑冀阙，非所以为功也。
刑黥太子之师傅，残伤民以骏刑，是积怨畜祸也。
教之化民也深於命，民之效上也捷於令。
今君又左建外易，非所以为教也。
君又南面而称寡人，日绳秦之贵公子。
诗曰： 相鼠有体，人而无礼，人而无礼，何不遄死。
以诗观之，非所以为寿也。
公子虔杜门不出已八年矣，君又杀祝懽而黥公孙贾。
诗曰： 得人者兴，失人者崩。
此数事者，非所以得人也。
君之出也，後车十数，从车载甲，多力而骈胁者为骖乘，持矛而操闟戟者旁车而趋。
此一物不具，君固不出。
书曰： 恃德者昌，恃力者亡。
君之危若朝露，尚将欲延年益寿乎？
translation: 
If you are really willing to speak out and justly all day long, that will be the best medicine for my illness.
I will worship you as my teacher, why do you refuse to make friends with me?
Zhao Liang said: That Doctor Wuxi is a remote countryman from Chu State.
I heard that Duke Mu of Qin was a virtuous man, so he wanted to see him in person. But he didn't have the money to go, so he sold himself to the people of Qin, wearing a coarse short coat and feeding their cattle.
A full year later, Duke Mu of Qin found out about this and promoted him from the cow's mouth to the top of ten thousand people. No one in Qin was dissatisfied.
He served as the Prime Minister of Qin for sixty-seven years. He went east to conquer Zheng, supported the king of Jin three times, and sent troops to rescue Chu once.
Implement morality within the country. The country of Pakistan came to pay tribute; it governed the princes virtuously, and ethnic minorities from all over the world came to pay homage.
When Yu Yu heard about this situation, he came to knock on the door and seek refuge.
When Doctor Wuxi was appointed as the Prime Minister of Qin, he did not ride in a car when tired, did not hold an umbrella in the scorching heat, and traveled all over the country without accompanying vehicles or armed defense. His merits were recorded in the annals of history and hidden in the treasury, and his virtues were taught to future generations.
When Wu Xianfu died, both men and women in Qin State cried bitterly. Even the children did not sing ballads, and the people who were pounding rice did not make corresponding calls out of sorrow.
This is the virtue of Doctor Wuxi.
Now that you are able to meet the King of Qin, you rely on the recommendation of the King of Qin's favorite minister Jing Jian. This is not a reputation at all.
As the Prime Minister of the Qin State, if you build palaces on a large scale without benefiting the people, this cannot be said to be a contribution to the country.
Punishing the prince's master and using cruel methods to harm the people is accumulating resentment and accumulating disaster.
Educating the people is more deeply rooted in the hearts of the people than ordering them, and it is faster for the people to imitate the behavior of the superiors than to order them.
Now you are unreasonably establishing authoritative change procedures. This is not to educate the people.
You proclaimed yourself king in the south of Shangyu fiefdom, and used new laws to persecute the nobles of Qin every day.
The Sutra says: Rats still know how to be polite, but people have no manners. Since people have lost their etiquette, why don't they die quickly?
According to this poem, it really cannot be flattering to you.
Gongzi Qian has been in seclusion for eight years. You killed Zhu Huan and punished Gongsun Jia with ink.
"The Book of Songs" says: Those who gain the revitalization of the human heart will perish if they lose the human heart.
None of these things are popular.
As soon as you go out, dozens of vehicles are following behind you. The vehicles are all armored guards. Strong men serve as personal guards. People with spears and halberds run close to your vehicle.
If you lack any of these defenses, you will definitely not dare to go out.
"Shangshu" says: Prosperity depends on virtue, and destruction depends on force.
Your situation is as dangerous as the morning dew that will soon disappear. Do you still plan to prolong your life?


Chunk 5: 
original: 
则何不归十五都，灌园於鄙，劝秦王显岩穴之士，养老存孤，敬父兄，序有功，尊有德，可以少安。
君尚将贪商於之富，宠秦国之教，畜百姓之怨，秦王一旦捐宾客而不立朝，秦国之所以收君者，岂其微哉？
亡可翘足而待。
商君弗从。
後五月而秦孝公卒，太子立。
公子虔之徒告商君欲反，发吏捕商君。
商君亡至关下，欲舍客舍。
客人不知其是商君也，曰： 商君之法，舍人无验者坐之。
商君喟然叹曰： 嗟乎，为法之敝一至此哉！
去之魏。
魏人怨其欺公子卬而破魏师，弗受。
商君欲之他国。
魏人曰： 商君，秦之贼。秦彊而贼入魏，弗归，不可。
遂内秦。
商君既复入秦，走商邑，与其徒属发邑兵北出击郑。秦发兵攻商君，杀之於郑黾池。
秦惠王车裂商君以徇，曰： 莫如商鞅反者！
遂灭商君之家。
太史公曰：商君，其天资刻薄人也。迹其欲干孝公以帝王术，挟持浮说，非其质矣。
且所因由嬖臣，及得用，刑公子虔，欺魏将卬，不师赵良之言，亦足发明商君之少恩矣。
余尝读商君开塞耕战书，与其人行事相类。
卒受恶名於秦，有以也夫！
translation: 
Then why not return Shang's fiefdom of fifteen cities to the State of Qin, go to remote and desolate places to water gardens and cultivate their own land, and persuade the King of Qin to reuse those talents who live in seclusion in the mountains and forests to support the elderly and raise orphans, so that father and brother can respect each other, rank according to merit, and respect virtuous people. Only in this way can peace be guaranteed.
You also want to covet Shang Yu's wealth, take monopolizing the political and religious affairs of Qin as an honor and favor, and arouse the resentment of the people. Once the king of Qin abandons his guests and cannot be in power, how many people will Qin want to arrest you?
The day of your death will come as quickly as you lift your feet.
But Shang Jun did not follow Zhao Liang's advice.
Five months later, Qin Xiaogong died and the prince ascended the throne.
Gongzi Qian and his gang reported that Shang Jun wanted to rebel, and the monarch sent people to arrest Shang Jun.
Shang Jun fled to the border crossing and wanted to stay in a hotel.
The owner of the inn did not know that he was Lord Shang, and said: Lord Shang has an order, and the owner of the hotel will jointly and severally sentence the people staying in the hotel without documents.
Shang Jun sighed longly and said: Alas! The legacy of enacting new laws has reached such an extent!
He left Qin and fled to Wei.
The people of Wei resented him for deceiving the young master Yan and defeating the Wei army, and refused to take him in.
Shang Jun plans to go to other countries.
The people of Wei said: Lord Shang is a fugitive from Qin. Qin is powerful, but its fugitive comes to Wei. It is impossible not to return him.
So he sent Lord Shang back to Qin.
After Lord Shang returned to Qin, he fled to his fiefdom of Shang. He and his subordinates mobilized the soldiers in the city to attack Zheng in the north to seek a way out. Qin sent troops to attack Lord Shang and killed him in Lingchi of Zheng.
King Hui of Qin divided Shang Jun into five pieces and showed it to the public, saying: Don't rebel like Shang Yang!
So he killed the whole clan of Lord Shang.
Tai Shigong said: Mr. Shang is a cruel and merciless person by nature. It should be considered that when he used the way of an emperor to persuade Duke Xiao, he relied on pretentious talk and it was not his own qualifications.
Besides, relying on the recommendation of the king's favorite minister Jing Jian, when he was appointed, he punished the prince Qian, deceived the Wei general, the prince Xian, and refused to listen to Zhao Liang's advice, which is enough to prove that Lord Shang was cruel and ungrateful.
I once read a book about Shang Jun's Kasai farming campaign, and the content is similar to his own actions.
But in the end, he got a bad reputation in Qin State for treason. There is a reason for this!


