Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 4, 7, 12]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
殷契，母曰简狄，有娀氏之女，为帝喾次妃。
三人行浴，见玄鸟堕其卵，简狄取吞之，因孕生契。
契长而佐禹治水有功。
帝舜乃命契曰： 百姓不亲，五品不训，汝为司徒而敬敷五教，五教在宽。
封于商，赐姓子氏。
契兴於唐、虞、大禹之际，功业著於百姓，百姓以平。
契卒，子昭明立。
昭明卒，子相土立。
相土卒，子昌若立。
昌若卒，子曹圉立。
曹圉卒，子冥立。
冥卒，子振立。
振卒，子微立。
微卒，子报丁立。
报丁卒，子报乙立。
报乙卒，子报丙立。
报丙卒，子主壬立。
主壬卒，子主癸立。
主癸卒，子天乙立，是为成汤。
成汤，自契至汤八迁。
translation: 
Yin Qi's mother's name was Jian Di. She was the daughter of the You'u family and the second concubine of Emperor Ku.
Jian Di and three other people went to the river to take a bath. When they saw an egg dropped by a black bird, Jian Di picked it up and swallowed it. As a result, she became pregnant and gave birth to Qi.
When Qi grew up, he assisted Yu in flood control.
Emperor Shun then made an appointment deed and said: Now the common people are not in harmony and the relationship between the five ethics is not smooth. If you are to serve as Situ, you must respectfully promote the education of the five ethics and take generosity as the foundation.
The deed was sealed in Shang Land and given the surname Zi.
Qi arose in the era of Tang Yao, Yu Shun, and Xia Yu. Its achievements were outstanding in the hearts of the people, and the people lived a stable life as a result.
After Qi's death, his son Zhaoming succeeded to the throne.
After Zhaoming's death, his son Xiangtu succeeded to the throne.
After Xiangtu died, his son Changruo succeeded to the throne.
After Chang Ruo died, his son Cao Yu succeeded to the throne.
After Cao Yu's death, his son Ming succeeded to the throne.
After Ming's death, his son Zhen succeeded to the throne.
After Zhen died, his son Wei succeeded to the throne.
After Wei's death, his son Baoding succeeded to the throne.
After Baoding died, his son Baoyi succeeded him.
After Bao Yi died, his son Bao B succeeded to the throne.
After Bao Bing died, his son Zhu Ren succeeded to the throne.
After the death of Zhu Ren, his son Zhu Gui succeeded to the throne.
After Zhugui died, his son Tianyi succeeded to the throne. This is the soup.
Chengtang, from Qi to Tang, had moved its capital eight times.

summary:
summary line 0: Yin Qi's mother, Jian Di, was the daughter of the You'u family and the second concubine of Emperor Ku. While bathing in a river with three others, she swallowed an egg dropped by a black bird, became pregnant, and gave birth to Qi. Qi grew up to assist Yu in flood control. Emperor Shun appointed him as Situ to promote the education of the five ethics, sealed him in Shang Land, and gave him the surname Zi. Qi's achievements during the eras of Tang Yao, Yu Shun, and Xia Yu brought stability to the people. After his death, his descendants succeeded him in a long lineage, culminating in Chengtang (Tang), who moved the capital eight times.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
汤始居亳，从先王居，作帝诰。
汤征诸侯。
葛伯不祀，汤始伐之。
汤曰： 予有言：人视水见形，视民知治不。 伊尹曰： 明哉！
言能听，道乃进。
君国子民，为善者皆在王官。
勉哉，勉哉！ 汤曰： 汝不能敬命，予大罚殛之，无有攸赦。
作汤征。伊尹名阿衡。
阿衡欲见汤而无由，乃为有莘氏媵臣，负鼎俎，以滋味说汤，致于王道。
或曰，伊尹处士，汤使人聘迎之，五反然後肯往从汤，言素王及九主之事。
汤举任以国政。
伊尹去汤适夏。既丑有夏，复归于亳。
入自北门，遇女鸠、女房，作女鸠女房。
汤出，见野张网四面，祝曰： 自天下四方皆入吾网。
汤曰： 嘻，尽之矣！
乃去其三面，祝曰： 欲左，左。欲右，右。
translation: 
Chengtang wrote the "Emperor's Edict" for this purpose, reporting to Emperor Ku on the situation of moving the capital.
Chengtang was Fangbo in the Xia Dynasty and had the power to conquer the princes.
Ge Bo did not offer sacrifices to ghosts and gods, so Cheng Tang conquered him first.
Chengtang said: I have said this: People can see their own appearance from the water, and the state of governance of the country can be known from the mental outlook of the people. Yi Yin said: How wise!
Only when good words are heard can moral progress be made.
To govern the country and nurture the people, all those who are virtuous and do good deeds should be appointed as officials of the court. Work hard, work hard!
Chengtang said to Ge Bo: If you cannot respect the destiny of heaven, I will punish you severely without mercy.
So he wrote "Tang Zheng", recording the situation of Zheng Ge. Yiyin's name is Aheng.
A Heng wanted to meet Cheng Tang but had no way, so he went to serve as a married servant of the Youshen family. He carried a rice pot and chopping board and used the opportunity of talking about the taste of cooking to advise Cheng Tang and persuade him to practice the royal way.
Some people also say that Yi Yin was originally a hermit who was talented and virtuous but refused to be an official. Cheng Tang sent someone to hire him. After five trips, he agreed to follow Tang and tell Cheng Tang what the ancient emperors and the nine types of monarchs had done.
Chengtang then appointed him to manage the state affairs.
Yi Yin once left Shang Tang and went to the Xia capital. Because he saw the ugliness of the Xia Dynasty's lack of justice, he returned to Bo, the Shang capital.
When he entered the city from the north gate, he met Nu Jiu and Nv Fang, the virtuous ministers of Shang Tang, so he wrote "Nv Jiu" and "Nv Fang" to describe his feelings when he left the Xia Dynasty and returned to the Shang capital.
Chengtang went out and saw someone in the wild with a net set up on all sides. The person setting up the net prayed and said: May everything from heaven, everything from the earth, and everything from the four directions enter my net!
Chengtang heard this and said: Hey, this way we can catch all the animals!
So he asked the man to remove the three-sided net, and asked the person who set up the net to pray: If you want to go to the left, go to the left, and if you want to escape to the right, run to the right.

summary:
summary line 1: Chengtang, a Fangbo under the Xia Dynasty, first conquered Ge Bo for failing to offer sacrifices. He wrote "Tang Zheng" to record this. Yi Yin (Aheng) served Chengtang, either as a married servant or after being hired following five invitations. Yi Yin advised Chengtang on governance, left for the Xia capital, and returned to Bo, writing "Nv Jiu" and "Nv Fang." Chengtang's kindness was shown when he ordered a net set on all sides to be reduced to three, allowing animals to escape, which impressed the princes. Xia Jie's tyranny led Chengtang to raise troops, with Yi Yin following. Chengtang issued the "Tang Oath," defeated Xia Jie at Mingtiao, and conquered Sanke. He replaced the Xia social god but wrote "Xia She" to explain why it was not replaced. After the princes submitted, Chengtang ascended the throne, wrote "Tang Gao" to warn the princes, and revised the calendar to favor white.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
以令诸侯。
伊尹作咸有一德，咎单作明居。
汤乃改正朔，易服色，上白，朝会以昼。
汤崩，太子太丁未立而卒，於是乃立太丁之弟外丙，是为帝外丙。
帝外丙即位三年，崩，立外丙之弟中壬，是为帝中壬。
帝中壬即位四年，崩，伊尹乃立太丁之子太甲。
太甲，成汤适长孙也，是为帝太甲。
帝太甲元年，伊尹作伊训，作肆命，作徂后。
帝太甲既立三年，不明，暴虐，不遵汤法，乱德，於是伊尹放之於桐宫。
三年，伊尹摄行政当国，以朝诸侯。
帝太甲居桐宫三年，悔过自责，反善，於是伊尹乃迎帝太甲而授之政。
帝太甲修德，诸侯咸归殷，百姓以宁。
伊尹嘉之，乃作太甲训三篇，褒帝太甲，称太宗。
translation: 
Tang warned the princes with these words.
Yi Yin wrote "Xian Yi De", explaining that monarchs and ministers should have pure moral character; Jiu Shan wrote "Ming Ju", which talked about the laws that the people should abide by.
Shang Tang then revised the calendar, changed the color of clothing, advocated white, and held court meetings during the day.
After the death of Shang Tang, the prince Taiding died before he ascended the throne, so Taiding's younger brother Waibing was made emperor. This was Emperor Waibing.
Emperor Waibing ascended the throne for three years. After his death, he made Waibing's younger brother Zhongren the emperor. This was Emperor Zhongren.
Four years after Zhongren ascended the throne, after his death, Yiyin supported Taiding's son Taijia as emperor.
Taijia, the eldest grandson of Chengtang, is Emperor Taijia.
In the first year of Taijia, Yi Yin wrote "Yi Xun", "Si Ming", and "Xu Hou", which stated what should be done according to the political and religious laws.
Emperor Taijia reigned for three years. His politics were unclear, his behavior was tyrannical, he did not abide by King Tang's laws, and his morals were corrupted. So Yi Yin exiled him to Tong Palace, where Tang is buried.
In the next three years, Yi Yin handled government affairs on behalf of the emperor, presided over state affairs, and accepted visits from princes.
Taijia lived in Tonggong for three years, reflected on and repented of his mistakes, and tried to be good again. So Yiyin welcomed Emperor Taijia back to the court and handed over the power to him.
Emperor Taijia practiced virtuous government, and the princes came to submit to the Yin and Shang Dynasties, and the people were peaceful.
Yi Yin admired Emperor Taijia very much, so he wrote three chapters of "Taijia Xun" to praise Emperor Taijia and called him Taizong.

summary:
summary line 2: After Chengtang's death, his son Taiding died before ascending, so Waibing and then Zhongren ruled briefly. Yi Yin then supported Taijia, Chengtang's grandson. Taijia's tyranny led Yi Yin to exile him to Tong Palace for three years, during which Yi Yin governed. Taijia repented, returned to power, and practiced virtuous government, earning the title Taizong. After Taizong's death, Woding succeeded, and Yi Yin died. Subsequent rulers like Tai Geng, Yong Ji, and Tai Wu saw decline, but Tai Wu's appointment of Yi Zhi and response to a strange mulberry tree event revived Yin, earning him the title Zhongzong. Later rulers like Zhong Ding, Wai Ren, He Dan Jia, and Zu Yi saw further decline and revival, with Wu Xian playing a key role.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
舍而弗勉，何以成德！
乃遂涉河南，治亳，行汤之政，然後百姓由宁，殷道复兴。
诸侯来朝，以其遵成汤之德也。
帝盘庚崩，弟小辛立，是为帝小辛。
帝小辛立，殷复衰。
百姓思盘庚，乃作盘庚三篇。
帝小辛崩，弟小乙立，是为帝小乙。
帝小乙崩，子帝武丁立。
帝武丁即位，思复兴殷，而未得其佐。
三年不言，政事决定於冢宰，以观国风。
武丁夜梦得圣人，名曰说。
以梦所见视群臣百吏，皆非也。
於是乃使百工营求之野，得说於傅险中。
是时说为胥靡，筑於傅险。
见於武丁，武丁曰是也。
得而与之语，果圣人，举以为相，殷国大治。
故遂以傅险姓之，号曰傅说。
translation: 
If we give up and do not work hard to pursue it, how can we achieve virtue?
So he crossed the Yellow River to the south bank, managed and repaired it, and obeyed and implemented Chengtang's decree. After that, the people were able to stabilize and the Yin Dynasty prospered again.
The princes also came to see him one after another. This was because Pan Geng followed Cheng Tang's moral policy.
After the death of Emperor Pan Geng, his younger brother Xiao Xin came to the throne. This is Emperor Xiao Xin.
When Xiao Xin was in power, Yin became weak again.
The people missed Pan Geng, so they wrote three chapters of "Pangeng".
After Emperor Xiao Xin passed away, his younger brother Xiao Yi came to the throne. This was Emperor Xiao Yi.
After the death of Emperor Xiao Yi, his son Wu Ding came to the throne.
After Emperor Wu Ding came to the throne, he wanted to revive the Yin Dynasty, but there was no suitable minister to assist him.
Wu Ding did not publish any political opinions for three years. Political matters were decided by Tsukasa, and he carefully observed the country's atmosphere.
Wu Ding dreamed of a saint named Shuo at night.
He observed the ministers and officials according to the appearance of the saint he saw in his dream, but none of them looked like the man in the dream.
So he sent hundreds of officials to search among the people, and finally found him in Fu Xian.
At that time, it was said that he was a slave working in Fuxian building roads.
The official brought the story to Wu Ding, and Wu Ding said it was this person.
After finding out the story, Wu Ding talked with him and found that he was really a sage, so he appointed him as the prime minister of the country, and the Yin country prospered in peace.
Therefore, the place name Fu Xian was used as the surname of Fu Shuo, and it became Fu Shuo.

summary:
summary line 3: From Zhong Ding onward, succession disputes among brothers and sons caused nine generations of chaos, weakening Yin. Pan Geng moved the capital to Bo, Chengtang's former residence, and revived Yin by following Chengtang's decrees. After Pan Geng's death, Xiao Xin and Xiao Yi ruled weakly. Wu Ding, seeking to revive Yin, dreamed of a sage named Shuo, found him as a slave in Fu Xian, and appointed him prime minister, bringing prosperity. A pheasant crowing on a tripod during a sacrifice led Zu Ji to advise Wu Ding on morality, further strengthening Yin. Wu Ding was later called Gaozong.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
箕子惧，乃详狂为奴，纣又囚之。
殷之大师、少师乃持其祭乐器奔周。
周武王於是遂率诸侯伐纣。
纣亦发兵距之牧野。
甲子日，纣兵败。纣走入，登鹿台，衣其宝玉衣，赴火而死。
周武王遂斩纣头，县之白旗。
杀妲己。释箕子之囚，封比干之墓，表商容之闾。
封纣子武庚、禄父，以续殷祀，令修行盘庚之政。殷民大说。
於是周武王为天子。
其後世贬帝号，号为王。
而封殷后为诸侯，属周。
周武王崩，武庚与管叔、蔡叔作乱，成王命周公诛之，而立微子於宋，以续殷后焉。
太史公曰：余以颂次契之事，自成汤以来，采於书诗。
契为子姓，其後分封，以国为姓，有殷氏、来氏、宋氏、空桐氏、稚氏、北殷氏、目夷氏。
孔子曰，殷路车为善，而色尚白。
translation: 
Jizi was frightened when he saw it, so he pretended to be crazy and became a slave. Zhou imprisoned Jizi again.
The grand masters and young masters of Yin State took the sacrificial vessels and musical instruments and fled to Zhou State in a hurry.
King Wu of Zhou led the princes to attack Yin Zhou.
Zhou also sent troops to resist the Zhou army in Muye.
On the day of Jiazi, Zhou's army was defeated. Zhou fled into the city, climbed to the deer platform, put on his precious jade clothes, ran to the fire and burned himself to death.
King Wu of Zhou cut off Zhou's head and hung it on a white flagpole.
King Zhou Wu executed Daji again, released the imprisoned Jizi, repaired Bigan's tomb, and commended Shang Rong's alleys.
He also enfeoffed Zhou's son Wu Geng and his father, allowing him to continue to worship Yin's ancestors and order him to implement Pan Geng's virtuous government. The people of Yin were very happy.
So King Wu of Zhou became the emperor.
Because descendants of the Yin and Shang dynasties devalued the title of emperor, he was called king.
King Wu of Zhou made the descendants of Yin princes and subordinated them to Zhou.
After the death of King Wu of Zhou, Wu Geng, Uncle Guan, and Uncle Cai launched a rebellion. King Cheng of Zhou ordered Zhou Gongdan to kill them, and made Wei Zi the king of the Song Dynasty to continue the incense of the Yin Dynasty.
Tai Shigong said: I compiled the deeds of the Deed based on "Song of Shang". Since the Tang Dynasty, many historical facts have been collected from "Shang Shu" and "The Book of Songs".
Qi was the surname of Zi, and his descendants were enfeoffed and took the name of the country as their surnames, including the Yin family, the Lai family, the Song family, the Kongtong family, the Zhi family, the Bei Yin family, and the Mu Yi family.
Confucius once said that the people of the Yin Dynasty had the best cars, and white was valued in that era.

summary:
summary line 4: After Wu Ding's death, Zu Geng and Zu Jia ruled, with Zu Jia's promiscuity causing decline. Subsequent rulers like Lin Xin, Geng Ding, and Wu Yi saw further decline. Wu Yi's cruelty, including making a puppet and shooting a blood-filled pouch, led to his death by lightning. His son Tai Ding and then Yi ruled, with Yi's son Xin (Zhou) succeeding. Zhou was talented but tyrannical, indulging in debauchery with Daji, increasing taxes, and inventing the Pao Ge torture. He killed Jiu Hou and E Hou, imprisoned Xibo (later King Wen), who was released after bribes. Xibo practiced virtuous governance, attracting princes. Zhou's minister Bigan was killed for advising, and Jizi was imprisoned. King Wu of Zhou led a revolt, defeated Zhou at Muye, and Zhou burned himself to death. King Wu executed Daji, released Jizi, and enfeoffed Zhou's son Wu Geng. Later, Wu Geng rebelled, and King Cheng made Wei Zi the king of Song to continue Yin's lineage.

