Chunk 0: 
original: 
穆皇帝讳聃，字彭子，康帝子也。
建元二年九月丙申，立为皇太子。
戊戌，康帝崩。
己亥，太子即皇帝位，时年二岁。
大赦，尊皇后为皇太后。
壬寅，皇太后临朝摄政。
冬十月乙丑，葬康皇帝于崇平陵。
十一月庚辰，车骑将军庾冰卒。
永和元年春正月甲戌朔，皇太后设白纱帷于太极殿，抱帝临轩。
改元。
甲申，进镇军将军、武陵王晞为镇军大将军、开府仪同三司，以镇军将军顾众为尚书右仆射。
夏四月壬戌，诏会稽王昱录尚书六条事。
五月戊寅，大雩。
尚书令、金紫光禄大夫、建安伯诸葛恢卒。
六月癸亥，地震。
秋七月庚午，持节、都尉江荆司梁雍益宁七州诸军事、江州刺史、征西将军、都亭侯庾翼卒。
翼部将于瓚、戴羲等杀冠军将军曹据，举兵反，安西司马硃焘讨平之。
translation: 
Emperor Mu's name was Sima Dan, whose courtesy name was Pengzi. He was the son of Emperor Kang.
In September of the second year of Jianyuan, Bingshen was established as the crown prince.
On Wuxu Day, Emperor Kangdi passed away.
On the day of Jihai, the prince became emperor and was only two years old at the time.
He granted amnesty to the whole world and honored the queen as the empress dowager.
On Renyin day, the Empress Dowager came to serve as regent.
In the tenth month of winter, Yichou buried Emperor Kang in Chongping Mausoleum.
In November Gengchen, the chariot general Yu Bing passed away.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Yonghe, the Empress Dowager set up a white gauze curtain in the Taiji Hall and sat in front of the hall holding Emperor Mu in her arms.
Change the year name.
On the Jiashen day, Sima Xi, the king of Wuling and the general of the town army, was promoted to the general of the town army and the third division of Kaifu Yitong. He appointed the leading general Gu Zhong as the minister's right servant.
In the fourth month of summer in Renxu, the king of Kuaiji, Sima Yu, was ordered to record six matters in the Shangshu.
On Wuyin day of the fifth month, the Dayu Festival was held.
Shangshu Ling, Jin Ziguanglu, and Jian'an Bo Zhuge Hui died.
In June of Guihai, an earthquake occurred.
On Gengwu in the seventh month of autumn, Chijie, the military commanders of Jiang, Jing, Si, Liang, Yong, Yi, and Ning, the governor of Jiangzhou, the general who conquered the west, and the dutinghou Yu Yi died.
Geng Yi's subordinates Zan, Dai Xi and others killed the champion general Cao Ju and raised their troops to rebel. Anxi Sima Zhu Tao crusaded and pacified them.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
八月，豫州刺史路永叛奔于石季龙。
庚辰，以辅国将军、徐州刺史桓温为安西将军、持节、都督荆司雍益梁宁六州诸军事，领护南蛮校尉、荆州刺史。
石季龙将路永屯于寿春。
九月丙申，皇太后诏曰： 今百姓劳弊，其共思详所以振恤之宜。
及岁常调非军国要急者，并宜停之。
冬十二月，李势将爨頠来奔。
凉州牧张骏伐焉耆，降之。
二年春正月丙寅，大赦。
己卯，使持节、侍中、都督扬州诸军事、扬州刺史、骠骑将军、录尚书事、都乡侯何充卒。
二月癸丑，以左光禄大夫葵谟领司徒，录尚书六条事、抚军大将军、会稽王昱及谟并辅政。
三月丙子，以前司徒左长史殷浩为建武将军、扬州刺史。
夏四月己酉朔，日有蚀之。
五月丙戌，凉州牧张骏卒，子重华嗣。
六月。
translation: 
In August, Lu Yong, the governor of Yuzhou, rebelled and defected to Shi Jilong.
On Gengchen Day, Huan Wen, the general of the auxiliary state and the governor of Xuzhou, was appointed as the general of Anxi, Chijie, and the governor of the six states of Jing, Si, Yong, Yi, Liang, and Ning. He also took charge of the Nanman school captain and the governor of Jingzhou.
Shi Jilong's general Lu Yong garrisoned in Shouchun.
In September Bingshen, the Empress Dowager issued an edict: "Now that the people are working hard, please carefully consider ways to provide relief and pensions."
As for taxes and labor services, those that are not urgently needed by the military and state affairs should be stopped.
In the twelfth month of winter, Li Shi sent Cuan Yi to defect to him.
Zhang Jun, the herdsman of Liangzhou, attacked Yanqi and surrendered them.
In the spring of the second year, on the first month of the year, Bingyin, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the day of Ji Mao, the envoys Chijie, Shizhong, the commander-in-chief of Yangzhou's military affairs, the governor of Yangzhou, the general of hussars, the secretary of records, and the governor of Duxiang, He Chong, died.
In the second month of Guichou, Kui, the doctor of Zuo Guanglu, was appointed as the leader of the Situ. He recorded the six things of Shangshu, the generals of Fujun, Wang Yu of Kuaiji, and Cai Mo to assist in state affairs.
In March Bingzi, Yin Hao, the former Situ Zuo Chief, was appointed as General Jianwu and Governor of Yangzhou.
On the first day of the fourth lunar month in summer, there was a solar eclipse.
In May Bingxu, Liangzhou Mu Zhang Jun died, and his son Zhang Chonghua inherited the position.
June.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
石季龙将王擢袭武街，执张重华护军胡宣。
又使麻秋、孙伏都伐金城，太守张冲降之。
重华将谢艾击秋，败之。
秋七月，以兗州刺史褚裒为征北大将军，开府仪同三司。
冬十月，地震。
十一月辛未，安西将军桓温帅征虏将军周抚，辅国将军、谯王无忌，建武将军袁乔伐蜀，拜表辄行。
十二月，枉矢自东南流于西北，其长竟天。
三年春正月乙卯，桓温攻成都，克之。
丁亥，李势降，益州平。
林邑范文攻陷日南，害太守夏侯览，以尸祭天。
夏四月，地震。
蜀人邓定、隗文举兵反，桓温又击破之，使益州刺史周抚镇彭模。
丁巳，邓定、隗文复入据成都，征虏将军杨谦弃涪城，退保德阳。
五月戊申，进慕容皝为安北将军。
石季龙又使其将石宁、麻秋等伐凉州，次于曲柳。
张重华使将军牛旋御之，退守枹罕。
六月辛酉，大赦。
秋七月，范文复陷日南，害督护刘雄。
隗文立范贲为帝。
八月戊午，张重华将谢艾进击麻秋，大败之。
translation: 
General Shi Jilong's general Wang Zhuo attacked Wujie and captured Zhang Chonghua's guard Hu Xuan.
Shi Jilong then sent Ma Qiu and Sun Fudu to attack Jincheng, and the prefect Zhang Chong surrendered.
Zhang Chonghua's general Xie Ai attacked Ma Qiu and defeated him.
In the seventh month of autumn, Chu Pei, the governor of Yanzhou, was appointed as the general of the expedition to the north.
In October of winter, an earthquake occurred.
At Xinwei in November, Anxi general Huan Wen led the conquest general Zhou Fu, the auxiliary general and Qiao Wang Sima Wuji, and the Jianwu general Yuan Qiao to attack Shu. They set off immediately after signing the memorial.
In December, the Wandering Star flows from southeast to northwest, traveling throughout the sky.
In the spring of the third year of the first lunar month of Yi Mao, Huan Wen attacked Chengdu and defeated it.
On Dinghai day, Li Shi surrendered and Yizhou was pacified.
Lin Yi Fanwen captured Rinan, killed the prefect Xia Houlan, and sacrificed his body to heaven.
Summer April, earthquake.
Shu people Deng Ding and Wei Wen led their troops to rebel, but Huan Wen defeated them and sent Yizhou Governor Zhou Fu to suppress Peng Mo.
Ding Si, Deng Ding, and Weiwen invaded Chengdu twice, and the conquering general Yang Qian abandoned Fucheng and retreated to Deyang.
In the fifth month of Wushen, Murong Huang was promoted to General Anbei.
Shi Jilong then sent his generals Shi Ning, Ma Qiu and others to attack Liangzhou and stationed in Quliu.
Zhang Chonghua sent General Niu Xuan to resist them and retreated to Fanhan.
In the Xinyou month of June, a general amnesty will be granted to the whole world.
In the seventh month of autumn, Fan Wen captured Rinan again and killed the guard Liu Xiong.
Wei Wen established Fan Bi as emperor.
On Wuwu in August, Zhang Chonghua's general Xie Ai attacked Ma Qiu and defeated them.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
九月，地震。
冬十月乙丑，假凉州刺史张重华大都督陇右关中诸军事、护羌校尉、大将军，武都氐王杨初为征南将军、雍州刺史、平羌校尉、仇池公，并假节。
十二月，振威护军萧敬文害征虏将军杨谦，攻涪城，陷之。
遂取巴西，通于汉中。
四年夏四月，范文寇九德，多所杀害。
五月，大水。
秋八月，进安西将军桓温为征西大将军、开府仪同三司，封临贺郡公；西中郎将谢尚为安西将军。
九月丙申，慕容皝死，子隽嗣伪位。
冬十月己未，地震。
石季龙使其将苻健寇竟陵。
十二月，豫章人黄韬自号孝神皇帝，聚众数千，寇临川，太守庾条讨平之。
五年春正月辛巳朔，大赦。
庚寅，地震。
石季龙僭即皇帝位于鄴。
二月，征北大将军褚裒使部将王龛北伐，获石季龙将支重。
夏四月，益州刺史周抚、龙骧将军硃焘击范贲，获之，益州平。
封周抚为建城公。
translation: 
September, earthquake.
In the tenth month of winter, Yichou, Zhang Chonghua, the governor of Liangzhou, was temporarily appointed as the commander-in-chief of Longyou Guanzhong, the military commander of Longyou, and the general.
In December, Xiao Jingwen, the Zhenwei Guardsman, killed General Yang Qian, who conquered the captives, attacked Fucheng, and captured it.
Then he captured Brazil and connected with Hanzhong.
In the summer and April of the fourth year, Fan Wen violated Jiude and killed many people.
In May, there was a flood.
In autumn and August, Huan Wen, the general who entered Anxi, was appointed as the General of the Expedition to the West, Kaifu Yitong and the Third Division were granted the title of Linhe County Duke; Xie Shang, the general of Xizhonglang, was appointed as the General of Anxi.
In September Bingshen, Murong Huang died, and his son Mu Rongjun succeeded to the pseudo-throne.
At the end of October in winter, there was an earthquake.
Shi Jilong sent his general Fu Jian to attack Jingling.
In December, Huang Tao from Yuzhang, who was proclaimed Emperor Xiaoshen, gathered thousands of people and attacked Linchuan. The prefect Yu Tiao conquered and destroyed them.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fifth year of the Xinsi lunar month, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
Gengyin day, earthquake.
Shi Jilong became emperor in Yecheng.
In February, Chu Pei, the general of the Northern Expedition, asked his general Wang Gong to expedition north, and captured Shi Jilong's general and led a heavy support.
In April of summer, Yizhou governor Zhou Fu and Longxiang general Zhu Tao attacked Fan Bi and captured him, and Yizhou was pacified.
He made Zhou Fu the Duke of the city.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
假慕容隽大将军、幽平二州牧、大单于、燕王。
征西大将军桓温遣督军滕畯讨范文，为文所败。
石季龙死，子世嗣伪位。
五月，石遵废世而自立。
六月，桓温屯安陆，遣诸将讨河北。
石遵扬州刺史王浃以寿阳来降。
秋七月，褚裒进次彭城，遣部将王龛、李迈及石遵将李农战于代陂，王师败绩，王龛为农所执，李迈死之。
八月，褚裒退屯广陵，西中郎将陈逵焚寿春而遁。
梁州刺史司马勋功石遵长城戍，仇池公杨初袭西城，皆破之。
冬十月，石遵将石遇攻宛，陷之，执南阳太守郭启。
司马勋进次悬钩，石季龙故将麻秋距之，勋退还梁州。
十一月丙辰，石鉴弑石遵而自立。
十二月己酉，使持节、都督徐兗二州诸军事、徐州刺史、征北大将军、开府仪同三司、都乡侯褚裒卒。
以建武将军、吴国内史荀羡为使持节、监徐兗二州诸军事、北中郎将、徐州刺史。
六年春正月，帝临朝，以褚裒丧故，悬而不乐。
闰月，冉闵弑石鉴，僭称天王，国号魏。
鉴弟祗僭帝号于襄国。
丁丑，彗星见于亢。
己丑，加中军将军殷浩督扬豫徐兗青五州诸军事、假节。
氐帅苻洪遣使来降，以为氐王，封广川郡公。
假洪子健节，监河北诸军事、右将军，封襄国县公。
三月，石季龙故将麻秋鸩杀苻洪于枋头。夏五月，大水。
庐江太守袁真攻合肥，克之。
六月，石祗遣其弟琨攻冉闵将王泰于邯郸，琨师败绩。
秋八月，辅国将军、谯王无忌薨。
苻健帅众入关。
冬十一月，冉闵围襄国。
十二月，免司徒蔡谟为庶人。
是岁，大疫。
translation: 
He was temporarily appointed as General Murong Jun, Mu of Youping Erzhou, Da Chanyu, and King of Yan.
Huan Wen, the general who conquered the west, sent the governor Teng Quan to attack Pai Fan Wen, but was defeated by Fan Wen.
Shi Jilong died, and his son inherited the pseudo-throne.
In May, Shi Zun deposed Shi Shi and became emperor.
In June, Huan Wen stationed at Anlu and sent various generals to attack Hebei.
Shi Zun's Yangzhou governor Wang Bo led Shouyang troops to surrender.
In the seventh month of autumn, Chu Su entered Pengcheng and sent his generals Wang Gong and Li Mai to fight with Shi Zun's general Li Nong. The army was severely defeated, Wang Gong was captured by Li Nong, and Li Mai died in the battle.
In August, Chu Pei retreated to Guangling, and Xizhonglang burned Chen Kui to Shouchun City and fled.
Sima Xun, the governor of Liangzhou, garrisoned the Great Wall and attacked Shi Zun, and Qiu Chigong Yang Chu attacked the west city and defeated the enemy.
In the tenth month of winter, Shi Zun's general Shi Yu attacked Wan, captured it, and captured Guo Qi, the prefect of Nanyang.
Sima Xun moved to Hangzhou, but Shi Jilong's general Ma Qiu resisted him, and Sima Xun returned to Liangzhou.
On Bingchen in November, Shi Jian killed Shi Zun and became emperor.
In the twelfth month of the twelfth month, Jiyou, the envoy Chijie, the governor of the two states Xu Yan, the governor of Xuzhou, the general who conquered the north, the three divisions of Kaifu Yitong, and the Marquis of Duxiang Chu Pei died.
General Jianwu and Wu's domestic history Xun Xian was appointed as envoy Chijie, superintendent of Xu, the military affairs of the two states of Yanzhou, Beizhong Lang general, and Xuzhou governor.
In the spring and first month of the sixth year, Emperor Mu went to court. Because of Chu Su's funeral, the musical instruments were hung up instead of Qin music.
In the leap month, Ran Min killed Shi Jian and called himself the King of Heaven. His country's name was Wei.
Shi Jian's younger brother Shi Zhi also proclaimed himself emperor of Xiang Kingdom.
On Ding Chou day, the comet appeared in Kangsu.
On the day of Jichou, Yin Hao, the general of the Chinese army, was appointed to supervise the military affairs and holidays of the five states of Henan, Xu, Yanqing and Qing.
Di led Fu Hong and sent envoys to surrender. Fu Cai was appointed King of Di and granted the title of Duke of Guangchuan.
He temporarily aided Fu Hong's son Fu Jian and Fu Jie, supervised the military and right generals in Hebei, and was granted the title of Duke of Xiangguo County.
In March, Shi Jilong's veteran Ma Qiu killed Fu Hong in Fangtou. In summer and May, there are floods.
Yuan Zhen, the governor of Lujiang, attacked Hefei and defeated it.
In June, Shi Zhi sent his younger brother Shi Kun to attack Ran Min's general Wang Tai in Handan. Shi Kun's army was severely defeated.
In the eighth month of autumn, Sima Wuji, the general of the auxiliary state and the king of Qiao, passed away.
Fu Jian led the army into the pass.
In the eleventh month of winter, Ran Min besieged Xiangguo.
In December, Situ Cai Mo was demoted to a commoner.
This year, there was a great plague.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
七年春正月丁酉，日有蚀之。
辛丑，鲜卑段龛以青州来降。
苻健僭称王，国号秦。
二月戊寅，以段龛为镇北将军，封齐公。
石祗大败冉闵于襄国。
夏四月，梁州刺史司马勋出步骑三万，自汉中入秦川，与苻健战于五丈原，王师败绩。
加尚书令顾和开府仪同三司。
刘显杀石祗。
五月，祗兗州刺史刘启自鄄城来奔。
秋七月，尚书令、左光禄大夫、开府仪同三司顾和卒。
甲辰，涛水入石头，溺死者数百人。
八月，冉闵豫州牧张遇以许昌来降，拜镇西将军。
九月，峻阳、太阳二陵崩。
甲辰，帝素服临于太极殿三日，遣兼太常赵拔修复山陵。
冬十月，雷雨，震电。
十一月，石祗将姚弋仲、冉闵将魏脱各遣使来降，以弋仲为车骑将军、大单于，封高陵郡公；弋仲子襄为平北将军、都督并州诸军事、并州刺史、平乡县公；脱为安北将军、监冀州诸军事、冀州刺史。
十二月辛未，征西大将军桓温帅众北伐，次于武昌而止。
translation: 
On the first day of the first lunar month of the seventh year of spring, there is a solar eclipse.
On Xinchou Day, Xianbei Duan Ni offered Qingzhou to surrender.
Fu Jiansu proclaimed himself king and the country was named Qin.
In February Wuyin, Duan Gong was appointed as the general of Zhenbei and granted the title of Duke of Qi.
Shi Zhi defeated Bai Ran in the Xiang Kingdom.
In April of summer, Sima Xun, the governor of Liangzhou, marched with 30,000 troops from Hanzhong into Qinchuan. They fought against Fu Jian at Wuzhangyuan, and the army was defeated.
He was appointed Shangshu and appointed as the third division of Yitong in Kaifu.
Liu Xian killed Shi Zhi.
In May, Shi Zhi's Yanzhou governor Liu Qi came from Juancheng to defect to him.
In the seventh month of autumn, Shangshu Ling, Zuo Guanglu, and Kaifu Yitong's third minister Gu He passed away.
On Jiachen day, floods rushed into Stone City and drowned hundreds of people.
In August, Ran Min's Yuzhou herdsman Zhang Yu led the Xuchang people and horses to surrender, and Zhang Yu was awarded the title of General of Zhenxi.
In September, Junyang and Taiyang Tombs collapsed.
Beginning on the Jiachen Day, the emperor wore plain clothes and went to the Taiji Hall for three days, and sent Zhao Ba, who was also Taichang, to repair the mountain tomb.
In October in winter, there is thunder, rain, lightning and thunder.
In November, Shi Zhi's general Yao Yizhong and Ran Min's general Wei Tuo each sent people to express their surrender. They appointed Yi Zhong as the general of chariots and cavalry, the Great Chanyu, and the title of Gaoling County Duke;
On Xinwei Day in December, Huan Wen, the general who conquered the west, led his army on the northern expedition and stopped after arriving at Wuchang.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
时石季龙故将周成屯廪丘，高昌屯野王，乐立屯许昌，李历屯卫国，皆相次来降。
八年春正月辛卯，日有蚀之。
刘显僭帝号于襄国，冉闵击破，杀之。
苻健僭帝号于长安。
二月，峻平、崇阳二陵崩。
戊辰，帝临三日，遣殿中都尉王惠如洛阳，以卫五陵。
镇西将军张遇反于许昌，使其党上官恩据洛阳。
乐弘攻督护戴施于仓垣。
三月，使北中郎荀羡镇淮阴。
苻健别帅侵顺阳，太守薛珍击破之。
夏四月，冉闵为慕容隽所灭。
隽僭帝号于中山，称燕。
安西将军谢尚帅姚襄与张遇战于许昌之诫桥，王师败绩。
苻健使其弟雄袭遇，虏之。
秋七月，大雩。
石季龙故将王擢遣使请降，拜征西将军、秦州刺史。
丁酉，以镇军大将军、武陵王晞为太宰，抚军大将军、会稽王昱为司徒，征西大将军桓温为太尉。
八月，平西将军周抚讨萧敬文于涪城，斩之。
冉闵子智以鄴降，督护戴施获其传国玺，送之，文曰 受天之命，皇帝寿昌 ，百僚毕贺。
九月，冉智为其将马愿所执，降于慕容恪。
中军将军殷浩帅众北伐，次泗口，遣河南太守戴施据石门，荥阳太守刘遂戍仓垣。
冬十月，秦州刺史王擢为苻健所逼，奔于凉州。
九年春正月乙卯朔，大赦。
张重华使王擢与苻健将苻雄战，擢师败绩。
丙寅，皇太后与帝同拜建平陵。
translation: 
At that time, Shi Jilong's old troops stationed Chengtun in Linqiu next week, Gaochangtun in Yewang, Lelitun in Xuchang, and Lilitun in Weiguo. They all surrendered one after another.
In the spring of the eighth year of the first lunar month, Xin Mao, there was a solar eclipse.
When Liu Xian took the imperial title in Xiangguo, Ran Min defeated Liu Xian and killed him.
Fu Jian proclaimed himself emperor in Chang'an.
In February, the Junping and Chongyang tombs collapsed.
Beginning on the Wuchen Day, Emperor Mu went to court for three days and sent Wang Hui, the captain of the palace, to Luoyang and appointed him to guard Wuling.
General Zhang Yu of Zhenxi rebelled in Xuchang and sent his comrade Shangguan En to defend Luoyang.
Lehong attacked the governor Dai Shi in Cangyuan.
In March, he sent Bei Zhonglang general Xun Xian to guard Huaiyin.
Fu Jian's troops invaded Shunyang, and the prefect Xue Zhen defeated them.
In April of summer, Ran Min was killed by Murong Jun.
Mu Rongjun proclaimed himself the emperor in Zhongshan and his country was named Yan.
Anxi general Xie Shang led Yao Xiang and Zhang Yu to fight at Jieqiao in Xuchang, and the army was defeated.
Fu Jian sent his younger brother Fu Xiong Hua Hua to attack Zhang Yu and capture him.
In the seventh month of autumn, people offer sacrifices to the sky to pray for rain.
Shi Jilong's former general Wang Zhuo sent an envoy to ask for surrender, and he was appointed as the General of the Conquest of the West and the Governor of Qinzhou.
On Dingyou day, Sima Xi, the general of the Zhenjun and King of Wuling, was appointed as Taizai, Sima Yu, the general of Fujun and King of Kuaiji, was appointed as Situ, and Huan Wen, the general of the Western Expeditions, was appointed as Taiwei.
In August, Pingxi general Zhou Fu attacked Xiao Jingwen in Fucheng and killed him.
Ran Min's son Ran Zhi led the Yecheng troops to surrender, and the governor Dai Shi obtained his imperial seal and presented it to the emperor. The seal read "Accepting the order of heaven, the emperor will live in longevity", and all the officials came to celebrate.
In September, Ran Zhi was arrested by his general Ma Yuan and surrendered to Murong Ke.
General Yin Hao of the Chinese Army led the army in the Northern Expedition and stationed at Sikou. He sent Dai Shi, the governor of Henan, to occupy Shimen, and Liu Sui, the governor of Xingyang, to garrison the canangyuan.
In the tenth month of winter, Wang Tiao, the governor of Qinzhou, was forced by Fu Jian and fled to Liangzhou.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the ninth year, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
Zhang Chonghua sent Wang Zhuo to fight with Fu Xiong, the general of Fu Jian, and Wang Zhuo's army was defeated.
On Bingyin day, the empress dowager and the emperor jointly paid homage to Jianping Mausoleum.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
三月，旱。
交州刺史阮敷讨林邑范佛于日南，破其五十余垒。
夏四月，以安西将军谢尚为尚书仆射。
五月，大疫。
张重华复使王擢袭秦州，取之。
仇池公杨初为苻雄所败。
秋七月丁酉，地震，有声如雷。
八月，遣兼太尉、河间王钦修复五陵。
冬十月，中军将军殷浩进次山桑，使平北将军姚襄为前锋，襄叛，反击浩，浩弃辎重，退保谯城。
丁未，凉州牧张重华卒，子耀灵嗣。
是月，张祚弑耀灵而自称凉州牧。
十一月，殷浩使部将刘启、王彬之讨姚襄，复为襄所败，襄遂进据芍陂。
十二月，加尚书仆射谢尚为都督豫、扬、江西诸军事，领豫州刺史，镇历阳。
十年春正月己酉朔，帝临朝，以五陵未复，悬而不乐。
凉州牧张祚僭帝位。
冉闵降将周成举兵反，自宛陵袭洛阳。
辛酉，河南太守戴施奔鲔渚。
丁卯，地震，有声如雷。
translation: 
In March, there was a drought.
Ruan Fu, the governor of Jiaozhou, attacked Linyi Fanfo in Rinan and broke through more than fifty enemy camps.
In April of Xia, General Xie Shang of Anxi was appointed as Shangshu Pushe.
In May, the plague hit.
Zhang Chonghua sent Wang Ziao to attack Qinzhou twice and captured it.
Qiu Chi Gong Yang Chu was defeated by Fu Xiong.
In autumn and July, there is an earthquake and a thunderous sound.
In August, he sent Taiwei and Hejian Wang Qin to repair the Five Tombs.
In the tenth month of winter, General Yin Hao of the Chinese Army entered Shansang and sent Pingbei General Yao Xiang as the vanguard. Yao Xiang rebelled and attacked Yin Hao in turn. Yin Hao abandoned his baggage and retreated to Qiao City.
On Dingwei day, Zhang Chonghua, the shepherd of Liangzhou, passed away and was succeeded by his son Zhang Yaoling.
That month, Zhang Zuo killed Yaoling and called himself Liangzhou Mu.
In November, Yin Hao sent his generals Liu Qi and Wang Binzhi to attack Yao Xiang, but was defeated by Yao Xiang. Yao Xiang advanced to occupy Shaopi.
In December, Shangshu Pushe Xie Shang was added to serve as the commander-in-chief of the military forces in Yu, Yang, and Jiangxi. He also served as the governor of Yuzhou and guarded Liyang.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the tenth year, the emperor went to court. Because the Five Tombs had not been repaired, the musical instruments were hung and not played.
Liangzhou Mu Zhang Zuosu ascended the throne.
Ran Min surrendered to Zhou Cheng and raised his troops to rebel and attack Luoyang from Wanling.
On Xinyou day, Dai Shi, the governor of Henan, rushed to Tuzhu.
On Dingmao day, there was an earthquake with a sound like thunder.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
二月己丑，太尉、征西将军桓温帅师伐关中。
废扬州刺史殷浩为庶人，以前会稽内史王述为扬州刺史。
夏四月己亥，温及苻健子苌战于蓝田，大败之。
五月，江西乞活郭敞等执陈留内史刘仕而叛，京师震骇，以吏部尚书周闵为中军将军，屯于中堂，豫州刺史谢尚自历阳还卫京师。
六月，苻健将苻雄悉众及桓温战于白鹿原，王师败绩。
秋九月辛酉，桓温粮尽，引还。
十一年春正月甲辰，侍中、汝南王统薨。
平羌校尉、仇池公杨初为其部将梁式所害，初子国嗣位，因拜镇北将军、秦州刺史。
齐公段龛袭慕容隽将荣国于郎山，败之。
夏四月壬申，陨霜。
乙酉，地震。
姚襄帅众寇外黄，冠军将军高季大破之。
五月丁未，地又震。
六月，苻健死，其子生嗣伪位。
秋七月，宋混、张瓘弑张祚，而立耀灵弟玄靓为大将军、凉州牧，遣使来降。
translation: 
In the second month of Jichou, Taiwei and General Huan Wen led the army to attack Guanzhong.
Yin Hao, the governor of Yangzhou, was deposed as a commoner, and Wang Shu, the former internal historian of Kuaiji, was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou.
In the fourth month of summer in Jihai, Wen Ji, Fu Jianzi and Chang fought in Lantian and were severely defeated.
In May, Jiangxi beggar Guo Chang and others rebelled against Liu Shi, the internal historian of Chen. The capital was shocked and appointed Zhou Min, the minister of civil affairs, as the general of the Chinese army and stationed in Zhongtang. Xie Shang, the governor of Yuzhou, returned to the capital from Liyang.
In June, Fu Jian's generals Fu Xiong and Huan Wen fought in Bailuyuan, and the army was defeated.
In the Xinyou month of autumn and ninth month, Huan Wen ran out of food and returned it.
On the first day of the eleventh year in the spring, Sima Tong, the king of Runan, passed away.
Yang Chu, the captain of Pingqiang and Duke of Qiuchi, was killed by his subordinate Liang Shi. Yang Chu's son Yang Guo inherited the title, so Yang Guo became the general of Zhenbei and the governor of Qinzhou.
Qi Gong Duan Gong attacked Murong Jun's general Rong Guo at Langshan and defeated Rong Guo.
In the fourth month of summer, Renshen comes and frost falls.
Yiyou, earthquake.
Yao Xiang led his army to invade Waihuang, and the champion general Gao Ji defeated them.
On the last day of May, there was another earthquake.
In June, Fu Jian died, and his son Fu Sheng succeeded to the throne.
In the seventh month of autumn, Song Hun and Zhang Guan killed Zhang Zuo, and appointed Zhang Yaoling's younger brother Zhang Xuanliang as the general and the shepherd of Liangzhou, and sent envoys to surrender.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
以吏部尚书周闵为尚书左仆射，领军将军王彪之为尚书右仆射。
冬十月，进豫州刺史谢尚督并冀幽三州诸军事、镇西将军，镇马头。
十二月，慕容恪帅众寇广固。
壬戌，上党人冯鸯自称太守，背苻生遣使来降。
十二年春正月丁卯，帝临朝，以皇太后母丧，悬而不乐。
镇北将军段龛及慕容恪战于广固，大败之，恪退据安平。
二月辛丑，帝讲《孝经》。
三月，姚襄入于许昌，以太尉桓温为征讨大都督以讨之。
秋八月己亥，桓温及姚襄战于伊水，大败之，襄走平阳，徙其余众三千余家于江汉之间，执周成而归。
使扬武将军毛穆之，督护陈午，辅国将军、河南太守戴施镇洛阳。
冬十月癸巳朔，日有蚀之。
慕容恪攻段龛于广固，使北中郎将荀羡帅师次于琅邪以救之。
十一月，遣兼司空、散骑常侍车灌，龙骧将军袁真等持节如洛阳，修五陵。
translation: 
Zhou Min, the Minister of Civil Affairs, was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe, and the leading general Wang Biaozhi was appointed as Shangshu Youpushe.
In the tenth month of winter, he was promoted to governor Xie Shang, the governor of Yuzhou, and joined the military forces of the three states of Jiyou and general Zhenxi to guard Ma Tou.
In December, Murong Ke led the army to invade Guanggu.
On Renxu day, Feng Yang, a Shangdang member, claimed to be the governor, betrayed Fu Sheng and sent people to surrender.
On Ding Mao, the first month of the twelfth year of spring, the emperor went to court. Because the empress dowager's mother died, the music was suspended and no music was played.
General Duan Gong of Zhenbei fought with Murong Ke in Guanggu and defeated Mu Rong Ke, who retreated to Anping.
On Xinchou Day in February, the emperor lectured on the "Book of Filial Piety".
In March, Yao Xiang entered Xuchang, and the imperial court appointed Taiwei Huan Wen as the commander-in-chief of the expedition against Yao Xiang.
In the autumn and eighth month of Jihai, Huan Wen fought with Yao Xiang in Yishui and defeated Yao Xiang. Yao Xiang fled to Pingyang, moved more than 3000 remaining family members to Jianghan, captured Zhou Cheng and returned.
General Yangwu Mao Muzhi was sent to supervise Chen Wu, and General Dai Shi, the auxiliary general and governor of Henan, was sent to guard Luoyang.
On the first day of the tenth lunar month in winter, there is a solar eclipse.
Murong Ke attacked Duan Gong in Guanggu, and the imperial court sent Beizhonglang General Xun Xian to lead an army to station in Langye to rescue Duan Gong.
In November, he sent Sikong, Sanqi Chang, Chaguan, Longxiang General Yuan Zhen and others to Luoyang to repair the Wuling.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
十二月庚戌，以有事于五陵，告于太庙，帝及群臣皆服缌，于太极殿临三日。
是岁，仇池公杨国为其从父俊所杀，俊自立。
升平元年春正月壬戌朔，帝加元服，告天太庙，始亲万机。
大赦，改元，增文武位一等。
皇太后居崇德宫。
丁丑，陨石于槐里一。
是月，镇北将军、齐公段龛为慕容恪所陷，遇害。
扶南竺旃檀献驯象，诏曰： 昔先帝以殊方异兽或为人患，禁之。
今及其未至，可令还本土。 三月，帝讲《孝经》。
壬申，亲释奠于中堂。
夏五月庚午，镇西将军谢尚卒。
苻生将苻眉、苻坚击姚襄，战于三原，斩之。
六月，苻坚杀苻生而自立。
以军司谢奕为使持节、都督、安西将军、豫州刺史。
translation: 
In Gengxu, the twelfth month, because the Five Tombs were to be built and they went to the Ancestral Temple to pay homage to their ancestors, the emperor and ministers all wore silk and linen mourning clothes and stayed in the Taiji Hall for three days.
In this year, Qiu Chigong Yang Guo was killed by his uncle Yang Jun, and Yang Jun established himself as Qiu Cangong.
On the first day of the first month of the spring of the first year of Shengping, on the first day of Renxu, the emperor Jianyuanfu paid homage to his ancestors in the Ancestral Temple and began to personally handle national affairs.
Amnesty was granted, the year title was changed, and civil and military officials were promoted to the first rank.
The Empress Dowager lives in Chongde Palace.
On Ding Chou day, a meteorite fell in Huaili.
In the same month, General Zhenbei and Qi Gong Duanggong were captured by Murong Ke and killed.
When Zhu Zhantan of Funan offered tamed elephants, the emperor issued an edict saying: In the past, the late emperor had banned the practice because some of the foreign monsters had become a problem for people.
Now, before they arrive, you can let them return to their original place. In March, the emperor lectured on the "Book of Filial Piety".
On Renshen day, I personally paid homage to Confucius in the middle hall.
In the fifth month of summer, Xie Shang, the general of Zhenxi, passed away.
Fu Sheng's generals Fu Mei and Fu Jian attacked Yao Xiang. They fought in Sanyuan and killed Yao Xiang.
In the sixth month, Fu Jian killed Fu Sheng and proclaimed himself king.
The imperial court appointed military commander Xie Yi as envoy Chijie, governor, general Anxi, and governor of Yuzhou.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
秋七月，苻坚将张平以并州降，遂以为并州刺史。
八月丁未，立皇后何氏，大赦，赐孝悌鳏寡米，人五斛，逋租宿债皆勿收，大酺三日。
冬十月，皇后见于太庙。
十一月，雷。
十二月，以太常王彪之为尚书左仆射。
二年春正月，司徒、会稽王昱稽首归政，帝不许。
三月，慕容隽陷冀州诸郡，诏安西将军谢奕、北中郎将荀羡北伐。
三月，佽飞督王饶献鸩鸟，帝怒，鞭之二百，使殿中御史焚其鸟于四达之衢。
夏五月，大水。
有星孛于天船。
六月，并州刺史张平为苻坚所逼，帅众三千奔于平阳，坚追败之。
慕容恪进据上党，冠军将军冯鸯以众叛归慕容隽，隽尽陷河北之地。
秋八月，安西将军谢奕卒。
translation: 
In the seventh month of autumn, Fu Jian's military reinforcement general Zhang Ping led the troops of Bingzhou to surrender and appointed Zhang Ping as the governor of Bingzhou.
On the day of Dingwei in the eighth month, Queen He was granted a general amnesty, and the filial widows and widowers were rewarded with five husks of rice each. Rent arrears and debt arrears were all exempted, and a banquet was given for three days.
In the tenth month of winter, the queen entered the Ancestral Temple.
In November, there is thunder.
In December, Taichang Wang Biaozhi was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In the spring and first month of the second year, Situ and Sima Yuji, the king of Kuaiji, apologized and returned to power, but the emperor did not allow it.
In March, Murong Jun captured all the counties in Jizhou, and the emperor ordered Anxi general Xie Yi and Beizhonglang general Xun Xian to expedition north.
In March, Rao Jin, the governor of Yi Fei, offered poisonous birds. The emperor was very angry and punished him with two hundred lashes. He sent the censor in the palace to burn the poisonous birds at all the intersections.
In summer and May, there are floods.
There is a comet entering the Sky Ship sector.
In June, Zhang Ping, the governor of Bingzhou, was forced by Fu Jian and fled to Pingyang with 3,000 troops. Fu Jian caught up with him and defeated him.
Murong Ke advanced and took control of the Shangdang. Champion General Feng Yuan led a military rebellion and surrendered to Murong Jun. Murong Jun captured all the places in Hebei.
In the eighth month of autumn, General Xie Yi of Anxi passed away.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
壬申，以吴兴太守谢万为西中郎将、持节、监司豫冀并四州诸军事、豫州刺史。
以散骑常侍郗昙为北中郎将、持节、都督徐兗青冀幽五州诸军事、徐兗二州刺史，镇下邳。
冬十月乙丑，陈留王曹劢薨。
十一月庚子，雷。
辛酉，地震。
十二月，北中郎将荀羡及慕容隽战于山荏，王师败绩。
三年春三月甲辰，诏以比年出军，粮运不继，王公已下十三户借一人一年助运。
秋七月，平北将军高昌为慕容隽所逼，自白马奔于荥阳。
冬十月慕容隽寇东阿，遣西中郎将谢万次下蔡，北中郎将郗昙次高平以击之，王师败绩。
十一月戊子，进扬州刺史王述为卫将军。
十二月，又以中军将军、琅邪王丕为骠骑将军，东海王奕为车骑将军。
封武陵王晞子逢为梁王。
交州刺史温放之帅兵讨林邑参黎、耽潦，并降之。
四年春正月，仇池公杨俊卒，子世嗣。
丙戌，慕容隽死，子嗣伪位。
translation: 
On Renshen day, Xie Wan, the prefect of Wuxing, was appointed as Xizhonglang general, Chijie, supervisor of Yuji and the military affairs of four states, and governor of Yuzhou.
Xi Tan, the regular servant of Sanqi, was appointed as Beizhonglang General, Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of Xu Yanqing, the military commander of the five Hebei Youzhou states, and Xu Yan, the governor of two states, to guard Xiapi.
On Yichou day in the tenth month of winter, Cao Mai, king of Chenliu, passed away.
In November, there will be thunder.
Xinyou day, earthquake.
In December, Bei Zhonglang fought between Xun Xian and Murong Jun at Shanren, and Xun Xian was defeated.
In the spring of the third year of March, on the first day of the third month, an edict was issued. Because of the continuous wars and the transportation of grain and grass could not keep up, one person from every thirteen households below the prince was seconded to help with transportation for one year.
In the seventh month of autumn, Pingbei general Gaochang was attacked by Murong Jun and fled from Baima to Xingyang.
In the tenth month of winter, Murong Jun invaded Dong'a. The imperial court sent Xi Zhonglang's general Xie Wan to station in Xiacai and Beizhonglang's general Xi Tan to station in Gaoping to attack Murong Jun. The official army was defeated.
On Wuzi Day in November, Wang Shu, the governor of Yangzhou, was promoted to General Wei.
In December, the general of the Chinese army, Wang Pi of Langxie, was appointed as the general of hussars, and Wang Yi of Donghai was appointed as the general of cavalry.
The king of Wuling, Xi Zi and Wang Feng, was granted the title of King of Liang.
Wen Fangzhi, the governor of Jiaozhou, led an army to attack Linyi, Shenli and Danlan, and they all surrendered.
In the first month of the spring of the fourth year, Qiu Chigong Yang Jun passed away, and his son Yang Shi inherited the title.
On Bingxu day, Murong Jun died, and his son Mu Rongwei succeeded to the throne.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
二月，凤皇将九雏见于丰城。
秋七月，以军役繁兴，省用撤膳。
八月辛丑朔，日有蚀之，既。
冬十月，天狗流于西南。
十一月，封太尉桓温为南郡公，温弟冲为丰城县公，子济为临贺郡公。
凤皇复见丰城，众鸟随之。
五年春正月戊戌，大赦，赐鳏寡孤独不能自存者，人米五斛。
北中郎将、都督徐兗青冀幽五州诸军事、徐兗二州刺史郗昙卒。
二月，以镇军将军范汪为都督徐兗青冀幽五州诸军事、安北将军、徐兗二州刺史。
平南将军、广州刺史、阳夏侯滕含卒。
夏四月，大水。
太尉桓温镇宛，使其弟豁将兵取许昌。
凤皇见于沔北。
五月丁巳，帝崩于显阳殿，时年十九。
葬永平陵，庙号孝宗。
哀皇帝讳丕，字千龄，成帝长子也。
translation: 
In February, Fenghuang appeared in Fengcheng with nine little phoenixes.
In the seventh month of autumn, due to frequent wars and corvee labor, the palace meals were reduced.
On the first day of Xin Chou in August, there is a solar eclipse, which is a total eclipse.
In October in winter, the star Tengu sets in the southwest.
In November, Taiwei Huan Wen was granted the title of Duke of Nanjun, his younger brother Huan Chong was granted the title of Duke of Fengcheng County, and his son Huan Ji was granted the title of Duke of Linhe.
The phoenix appeared in Fengcheng again, followed by many birds.
In the fifth year of spring and the first month of the year, there was a general amnesty, and five dendrobiums of rice were given to each of the widowers, widowers, and lonely people who had no means of living.
General Beizhong Lang, Commander-in-Chief Xu Yanqing, the military commanders of the five prefectures of Hebei You, and Xi Tan, the governor of Xu Yan and the second prefecture, passed away.
In February, Fan Wang, the general of the town army, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of Xu Yanqing, the military commander of the five states of Hebei You, the general of Anbei, and the governor of Xu Yan's two states.
General Pingnan, governor of Guangzhou, and Marquis of Yangxia Tenghan passed away.
In April in summer, there are floods.
Taiwei Huanwen guarded Wancheng and sent his younger brother Huanhuo to lead troops to attack Xuchang.
Fenghuang appeared in Mianbei.
In May of Dingsi, Emperor Mu died in Xianyang Hall at the age of nineteen.
He was buried in Yongping Mausoleum, with the temple name Xiaozong.
Emperor Ai's name was Sima Pi, whose courtesy name was Qianling, and he was the eldest son of Emperor Cheng.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
咸康八年，封为琅邪王。
永和元年拜散骑常侍，十二年加中军将军，升平三年除骠骑将军。
五年五月丁巳，穆帝崩。
皇太后令曰： 帝奄不救疾，胤嗣未建。琅邪王丕，中兴正统，明德懋亲。
昔在咸康，属当储贰。
以年在幼冲，未堪国难，故显宗高让。
今义望情地，莫与为比，其以王奉大统。
于是百官备法驾，迎于琅邪第。
庚申，即皇帝位，大赦。
壬戌，诏曰： 朕获承明命，入纂大统。
顾惟先王宗庙，蒸尝无主，太妃丧庭，廓然靡寄，悲痛感摧，五内抽割。
宗国之尊，情礼兼隆，胤嗣之重，义无与二。
东海王奕，戚属亲近，宜奉本统，其以奕为琅邪王。
秋七月戊午，葬穆皇帝于永平陵。
translation: 
In the eighth year of Xiankang's reign, he was granted the title of King Langxie.
In the first year of Yonghe's reign, he was appointed as a regular servant of the scattered cavalry. In the twelfth year, he was awarded the title of general of the Chinese army. In the third year of Shengping, he was promoted to the general of hussar cavalry.
In May of the fifth year of Shengping, Emperor Mu passed away.
The Empress Dowager ordered: Emperor Mu suddenly fell ill and could not be cured, and there was no successor. King Sima Pi of Langxie was an orthodox and virtuous descendant of the Zhongxing royal family.
In the past when he was in Xiankang, he should have been the crown prince.
Because he was too young to bear the national calamity, Emperor Xianzong abdicated his throne to Emperor Kang.
Now there is no one who can compare with him in terms of family ties, fame and status, so King Langxie can inherit the imperial throne.
So the officials prepared their carriages and went to King Langxie's mansion to greet him.
On the Gengshen day, King Langxie ascended to the throne of emperor and granted amnesty to the whole world.
On the day of Renxu, an edict was issued saying: I was able to accept the order of the Holy Ming and enter the court to accept the throne.
Thinking of the ancestral temple of the former kings, where the sacrifices had no owner, and the palace where the concubine mourned was empty and there was no place to stay, I felt very sad in my heart, and the five internal organs were as painful as being cut.
What the clan respects, love and etiquette are equally valued. The importance of descendants and heirs is no different from love and righteousness.
Sima Yi, the king of the East China Sea, is a close relative. He should respect the lineage of his clan and regard Sima Yi as the king of Langxie.
On the fifth day of the seventh month of autumn, Emperor Mu was buried in Yongping Mausoleum.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
慕容恪攻陷野王，守将吕护退保荥阳。
八月己卯夜，天裂，广数丈，有声如雷。
九月戊申，立皇后王氏。
穆帝皇后何氏称永安宫。
吕护叛奔于莫容。
冬十月，安北将军范汪有罪废为庶人。
十一月丙辰，诏曰： 显宗成皇帝顾命，以时事多艰，弘高世之风，树德博重，以隆社稷。
而国故不巳，康穆早世，胤祚不融。
朕以寡德，复承先绪，感惟永慕，悲育兼摧。
夫昭穆之义，固宜本之天属。
继体承基，古今常道。
宜上嗣显宗，以修本统。
十二月，加凉州刺史张玄靓为大都督陇右诸军事、护羌校尉、西平公。
隆和元年春正月壬子，大赦，改元。
甲寅，减田税，亩收二升。
是月，慕容将吕护、傅末波攻陷小垒，以逼洛阳。
二月辛未，以辅国将军、吴国内史庾希为北中郎将、徐兗二州刺史，镇下邳；前锋监军、龙骧将军袁真为西中郎将、监护豫司并冀四州诸军事、豫州刺史，镇汝南，并假节。
丙子，尊所生周氏为皇太妃。
translation: 
Murong Ke captured Ye Wang, and the guard general Lu Hu retreated to protect Xingyang.
On the night of Ji Mao in August, there was a crack in the sky, several feet wide, and there was a thunder-like sound.
In the ninth month of Wushen, Queen Wang was established.
Emperor Mu's wife, He, was called Yong'an Palace.
Lu Hu rebelled and defected to Morongwei.
In the tenth month of winter, General Fan Wang of Anbei committed a crime and was deposed as a commoner.
On Bingchen in November, an edict was issued saying: Emperor Xianzong Cheng left a legacy when he was dying. Because the current situation was difficult, he wanted to promote the customs of the high world and establish morality and justice to gain prestige, so as to revitalize the country.
However, national calamities continued. Emperor Kangdi and Emperor Mu passed away prematurely, and the continued national destiny was not prosperous.
With my meager virtues, I have inherited the legacy of the late king. I have longed for you in my heart, and my heart is broken by grief.
The righteousness of the two emperors Zhao and Mu should have been obeyed by God.
Inheriting the great cause of the country is a common practice in ancient and modern times.
It should be followed by the Xianzong to extend the lineage of the clan.
In December, Zhang Xuanliang, the governor of Jialiang Prefecture, was appointed as the military commander of Longyou, the military commander of Qiang, and the Duke of Xiping.
In the spring and first month of the first year of Longhe, Renzi received a general amnesty and changed his reign name.
On Jiayin Day, the land tax was reduced to two liters per mu.
That month, Murong Wei's generals Lu Hu and Fu Mobo captured Xiaolei and advanced to Luoyang.
At Xinwei in February, Yu Xi, the general of the auxiliary state and the domestic history of Wu, was appointed as the general of Beizhonglang and the governor of Xu Yan and the two states to guard Xiapi; he appointed Yuan Zhen, the forward supervisor and general of Longxiang, as the general of Xizhonglang to oversee the Yu Division and the military affairs of the four states of Hebei. He was also the governor of Yuzhou and the governor of Runan.
On the day of Bingzi, the birth mother Zhou was honored as the imperial concubine.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
三月甲寅朔，日有蚀之。夏四月，旱。
诏出轻系，振困乏。
丁丑，梁州地震，浩衅山崩。
吕护复寇洛阳。
乙酉，辅国将军、河南太守戴施奔于宛。
五月丁巳，遣北中郎将庾希、竟陵太守邓遐以舟师救洛阳。
秋七月，吕护等退守小平津。
进琅邪王奕为侍中、骠骑大将军、开府。
邓遐进屯新城，庾希部将何谦及慕容将刘则战于檀丘，破之。
八月，西中郎将袁真进次汝南，运米五万斛以馈洛阳。
冬十月，赐贫乏者米，人五斛。
章武王珍薨。
十二月戊午朔，日有蚀之。
诏曰： 戎旅路次，未得轻简赋役。
玄象失度，亢旱为患，岂政事未洽，将有板筑、渭滨之士邪！
其搜扬隐滞，蠲除苛碎，详议法令，咸从损耍。
庾希自下邳退镇山阳，袁真自汝南退镇寿阳。
translation: 
On the first day of the third lunar month, there is a solar eclipse. In April in summer, there is a drought.
The order was issued to release prisoners with minor crimes and to provide relief to the needy.
On Ding Chou day, there was an earthquake in Liangzhou, and mountains collapsed.
Lu Hu invaded Luoyang again.
On Yiyou day, Dai Shi, the general of the auxiliary state and the governor of Henan, fled to Yuwan.
On Dingsi Day in May, he sent Beizhonglang General Yu hope and Jingling Prefect Deng Xia to lead the navy to rescue Luoyang.
In the seventh month of autumn, Lu Hu and others retreated to Xiaopingjin.
Sima Yi, king of Langye, was promoted to the rank of Shizhong, general of hussar, and opened the mansion.
When Deng Xia entered Xincheng, Yu Xi's general He Qian and Murong Wei's general Liu Ze fought in Tanqiu and defeated Liu Ze.
In August, Xizhonglang stationed Yuan Zhen in Runan and transported 50,000 dendrobium rice as a gift to Luoyang.
In the tenth month of winter, rice is given to the poor, five dendrobiums per person.
Sima Zhen, King of Zhangwu, passed away.
On the first day of the twelfth month of the lunar month, there is a solar eclipse.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The military flag was sent out to defend the country, but it failed to reduce taxes and corvees.
The celestial phenomena are out of control and a severe drought causes disaster. Could it be that the political affairs are still not in harmony, or are they still like legends and hermits on the shores of the Wei River?
You can visit and recommend hermits to be exempted from severe and cumbersome taxes, discuss laws carefully, and all comply with the requirements of reducing losses.
Yu hope retreated from Xiapi to Shanyang, and Yuan Zhen retreated from Runan to Shouyang.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
兴宁元年春二月己亥，大赦，改元。
三月壬寅，皇太妃薨于琅邪第。
癸卯，帝奔丧，诏司徒、会稽王昱总内外众务。
夏四月，慕容寇荥阳，太守刘远奔鲁阳。
甲戌，扬州地震，湖渎溢。
五月，加征西大将军桓温侍中、大司马、都督中外诸军事、录尚书事、假黄钺。
复以西中郎将袁真都督司、冀、并三州诸军事，北中郎将瘦希都督青州诸军事。
癸卯，慕容陷密城，荥阳太守刘远奔于江陵。
秋七月，张天锡弑凉州刺史、西平公张玄靓，自称大将军、护羌校尉、凉州牧、西平公。
丁酉，葬章皇太妃。
八月，有星孛于角亢，入天市。
九月壬戌，大司马桓温帅众北伐。
癸亥，以皇子生，大赦。
冬十月甲申，立陈留王世子恢为王。
translation: 
On the day of Jihai in the second month of the first year of Xingning, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country and the reign name was changed.
In the third month of Renyin, the imperial concubine passed away in Langye Mansion.
On Guimao day, the emperor went to the funeral and ordered Situ and Wang Yu of Kuaiji to take charge of internal and external affairs.
In the fourth month of summer, Murong Wei invaded Xingyang, and the prefect Liu Yuan fled to Luyang.
On Jiaxu Day, there was an earthquake in Yangzhou and the lakes and rivers overflowed.
In May, Huan Wen, the general who conquered the West, was granted the title of Shizhong, Grand Sima, Commander-in-Chief of all Chinese and foreign military affairs, Records of Shang Shushi, and the fake yellow axe.
He also appointed Xizhonglang general Yuan Zhen to supervise the military affairs of Si, Ji, and the three states, and Beizhonglang general Xiaoxi to supervise the military affairs of Qingzhou.
In Guimao, Murong Wei captured Mi City, and Liu Yuan, the governor of Xingyang, fled to Jiangling.
In the seventh month of autumn, Zhang Tianxi killed Zhang Xuanliang, the governor of Liangzhou and Duke of Xiping, and was later called the general, the captain of the Qiang Protector, the shepherd of Liangzhou, and the Duke of Xiping.
On Dingyou day, Princess Zhang was buried.
In August, a comet entered the Ersu star region and entered the sky.
On Renxu day in the ninth month, Grand Sima Huanwen led his army in the Northern Expedition.
On the day of Guihai, because the prince was born, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In Jiashen, the tenth month of winter, Cao Hui, the eldest son of King Chenliu, was made king.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
十一月，姚襄故将张骏杀江州督护赵毗，焚武昌，略府藏以叛，江州刺史桓冲讨斩之。
是岁，慕容将慕容尘攻陈留太守袁披于长平。
汝南太守硃斌承虚袭许昌，克之。
二年春二月庚寅，江陵地震。
慕容将慕容评袭许昌，颍川太守李福死之。
评遂侵汝南，太守硃斌遁于寿阳。
又进围陈郡，太守硃辅婴城固守。
桓温遣江夏相刘岵击退之。
改左军将军为游击将军，罢右军、前军、后军将军五校三将官。
癸卯，帝亲耕藉田。
三月庚戌朔，大阅户人，严法禁，称为庚戌制。
辛未，帝不豫。
帝雅好黄老，断谷，饵长生药，服食过多，遂中毒，不识万机，崇德太后复临朝摄政。
夏四月甲申，慕容遣其将李洪侵许昌，王师败绩于悬瓠，硃斌奔于淮南，硃辅退保彭城。
translation: 
In November, Yao Xiang's original general Zhang Jun killed Zhao Bi, the governor of Jiangzhou, burned Wuchang City, and robbed the government warehouses to rebel. Huan Chong, the governor of Jiangzhou, attacked and killed Zhang Jun.
This year, Murong Wei's general Murong Chen attacked Chenliu prefect Yuan Pi in Shengping.
Zhu Bin, the governor of Runan, took advantage of the situation and successfully attacked Xuchang.
In the spring and February of the second year of Gengyin, there was an earthquake in Jiangling.
Murong Wei's general Murong Ping attacked Xuchang, and Yingchuan prefect Li Fu died in the battle.
Mu Rongping invaded Runan, and the prefect Zhu Bin fled to Shouyang.
Mu Rongping then marched to besiege Chen County, and the prefect Zhu Fu defended the city.
Huan Wen sent Jiang Xia Prime Minister Liu A to repel Mu Rongping.
The generals of the left army were changed to guerrilla generals, and the three generals of the five schools of the right army, the front army and the rear army were dismissed.
On Guimao day, the emperor personally went to work in the fields to develop agriculture.
On the first day of Gengxu in March, household registration numbers were checked on a large scale, and laws and regulations were strictly followed, which was called the Gengxu system.
On Xinwei day, the emperor was seriously ill.
The emperor always liked the art of immortality. He did not eat grains and only took elixirs. After taking too much, he was poisoned and could not govern the country. Empress Dowager Chongde came to serve as regent again.
In the fourth month of the summer in Jiashen, Murong Wei sent his general Li Hong to invade Xuchang. The army was defeated in Xuanhu, Zhu Bin fled to Huainan, and Zhu Fu withdrew to Pengcheng.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
桓温遣西中郎将袁真、江夏相刘岵等凿阳仪道以通运，温帅舟师次于合肥，慕容尘复屯许昌。
五月，迁陈人于陆以避之。
戊辰，以扬州刺史王述为尚书令、卫将军。
以桓温为扬州牧、录尚书事。
壬申，遣使喻温入相，温不从。
秋七月丁卯，复征温入朝。
八月，温至赭圻，遂城而居之。
苻坚别帅侵河南，慕容寇洛阳。
九月，冠军将军陈祐留长史沈劲守洛阳，帅众奔新城。
三年春正月庚申，皇后王氏崩。
二月乙未，以右将军桓豁监荆州扬州之义城雍州之京兆诸军事、领南蛮校尉、荆州刺史；桓冲监江州荆州之江夏随郡豫州之汝南西阳新蔡颍川六郡诸军事、南中郎将、江州刺史，领南蛮校尉，并假节。
丙申，帝崩于西堂，时年二十五。
葬安平陵。
废帝讳奕，字延龄，哀帝之母弟也。
咸康八年封为东海王。
永和八年拜散骑常侍，寻加镇军将军；升平四年拜车骑将军。
translation: 
Huan Wen sent Xizhonglang General Yuan Zhen, Jiang Xia Prime Minister Liu Can and others to dig Yangyi Road for transportation. Wen led the navy to station in Hefei, and Murong Chen stationed in Xuchang again.
In May, the people of Chenjun were moved to the mainland to avoid the Mu Rong family.
On Wuchen Day, Wang Shu, the governor of Yangzhou, was appointed Shangshu Ling and General Wei.
Huan Wen was appointed as Yangzhou Mu and Lu Shangshu.
On Renshen day, the imperial court sent someone to summon Huan Wen to become prime minister, but Huan Wen did not agree.
On Dingmao in the seventh month of autumn, another imperial edict was issued to recruit Huan Wen to the court.
In August, Huan Wen arrived at Zheqi and built a city to live there.
Fu Jian's troops invaded Henan, and Murong Wei invaded Luoyang.
In September, the champion general Chen You left Chang Shi Shen Jin to guard Luoyang and fled to the new city with his troops.
In the spring of the third year of the first lunar month, Queen Wang passed away.
At the end of February Yi, he appointed the right general Huan Huo to supervise the military affairs of Yicheng in Yangzhou in Jingzhou and Jingzhao in Yongzhou, and to lead the Nanman school captains and the governor of Jingzhou; Huan Chong was appointed to supervise the military affairs of the six counties of Jiangxia Suijun in Jiangzhou, Jingzhou and Yingchuan in Xincai, Xiyang, Runan, as well as the general Nanzhong Lang and the governor of Jiangzhou, and to lead the Nanman school captains, and all were awarded festivals.
On Bingshen day, the emperor died in Xitang, when he was twenty-five years old.
Buried in Anping Mausoleum.
The deposed emperor's name was Sima Yi, whose courtesy name was Yanling. He was the half-brother of Emperor Ai.
In the eighth year of Xiankang's reign, he was granted the title of King of East China Sea.
In the eighth year of Yonghe, he was awarded the rank of regular servant of casual cavalry, and soon he was awarded the title of general of Zhenjun; in the fourth year of Shengping, he was awarded the title of general of chariot and cavalry.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
五年，改封琅邪王。
隆和初，转侍中、骠骑大将军、开府仪同三司。
兴宁三年二月丙申，哀帝崩，无嗣。
丁酉，皇太后诏曰： 帝遂不救厥疾，艰祸仍臻，遗绪泯然，哀恸切心。
琅邪王奕，明德茂亲，属当储嗣，宜奉祖宗，纂承大统。
便速正大礼，以宁人神。
于是百官奉迎于琅邪第。
是日，即皇帝位，大赦。
三月壬申，葬哀皇帝于安平陵。
癸酉，散骑常侍、河间王钦薨。
丙子，慕容将慕容恪陷洛阳，宁朔将军竺瑶奔于襄阳，冠军长史、扬武将军沈劲死之。
夏六月戊子，使持节、都督益宁二州诸军事、镇西将军、益州刺史、建城公周抚卒。
秋七月，匈奴左贤王卫辰、右贤王曹谷帅众二万侵苻坚杏城。
己酉，改封会稽王昱为琅邪王。
壬子，立皇后庾氏。
封琅邪王昱子昌明为会稽王。
translation: 
Five years later, he was granted the title of King Langxie.
In the early years of Longhe, he was transferred to the third division of Shizhong, General of Hussar, and Kaifu Yitong.
In February Bingshen of the third year of Xingning, Emperor Ai died without a son.
On Dingyou Day, the Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: The emperor is unexpectedly ill and incurable, disasters occur frequently, and the Ai family feels very sad.
Sima Yi, King of Langxie, has perfect moral character and is a relative with both ability and political integrity. He should inherit the throne, respect his ancestors and inherit the imperial line.
Please prepare quickly to ascend the throne so that people and gods can be at peace.
So all the officials went to Langxie Mansion to welcome King Langxie.
On that day, the emperor ascended the throne and granted amnesty to the whole world.
In the third month of Renshen, Emperor Ai was buried in Anping Mausoleum.
On Guiyou day, Sanqi Changshi and Hejian Sima Wang Qin passed away.
On Bingzi day, Murong Wei's general Murong Ke captured Luoyang, Ning Shuo general Zhu Yao fled to Xiangyang, champion Chang Shi and Yang Wu general Shen Jin died in battle.
In the sixth month of the Xia Dynasty, Wuzi, the envoy Chijie, the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the two states of Yining, the general Zhenxi, the governor of Yizhou, and the Duke of Jiancheng Zhou Fu died.
In the seventh month of autumn, the Xiongnu left Xian Wang Weichen and right Xian Wang Cao Gu led an army of 20,000 to invade Fu Jian's Xingcheng.
On Jiyou Day, he changed the title of King Sima Yu of Kuaiji to King Langxie.
On the day of Renzi, Queen Yu was established.
Sima Changming, the son of Langxie King Sima Yu, was granted the title of King of Kuaiji.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
冬十月，梁州刺史司马勋反，自称成都王。
十一月，帅众人剑阁，攻涪，西夷校尉毌丘弃城而遁。
乙卯，围益州刺史周楚于成都，桓温遣江夏相硃序救之。
十二月戊戌，以会稽内史王彪之为尚书仆射。
太和元年春二月己丑，以凉州刺史张天锡为大将军、都督陇右关中诸军事、西平郡公。
丙申，以宣城内史桓秘为持节、监梁益二州征讨诸军事。
三月辛亥，新蔡王邈薨。
荆州刺史桓豁遣督护桓罴攻南郑，魏兴人毕钦举兵以应罴。
夏四月，旱。
五月戊寅，皇后庾氏崩。
硃序攻司马勋于成都，众溃，执勋，斩之。
秋七月癸酉，葬孝皇后于敬平陵。
九月甲午，曲赦梁、益二州。
冬十月辛丑，苻坚将王猛、杨安攻南乡，荆州刺史桓豁救之，师次新野而猛、安退。
以会稽王昱为丞相。
十二月，南阳人赵弘、赵忆等据宛城反，太守桓澹走保新野。
translation: 
In the tenth month of winter, Sima Xun, the governor of Liangzhou, rebelled and claimed to be the King of Chengdu.
In November, Sima Xun led his army into Jiange and attacked Fucheng. Xiyi captain Guanqiu Wei abandoned the city and fled.
On Yi Mao Day, Sima Xun besieged Zhou Chu, the governor of Yizhou, in Chengdu. Huan Wen sent Jiangxia Prime Minister Zhu Xu to rescue Zhou Chu.
In December of 1898, Wang Biaozhi, the internal historian of Kuaiji, was appointed as Shangshu Pushe.
In the spring and February of the first year of Taihe, Ji Chou appointed Zhang Tianxi, the governor of Liangzhou, as the general, the commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Longyou Guanzhong, and the Duke of Xiping County.
On Bingshen day, Huan Mi, the internal historian of Xuancheng, was appointed to be the commander of the military expedition in Liangyi and Liangzhou.
In March of 1911, Sima Miao, the king of Xincai, passed away.
Huan Huo, the governor of Jingzhou, sent the governor to protect Huan Zheng to attack Nanzheng. Bi Qin, a native of Wei Xing, led an army to support Huan Huo.
In April, there is drought.
In the fifth month of Wuyin, Queen Yu passed away.
Zhu Xu attacked Sima Xun in Chengdu. Sima Xun's army was defeated. Zhu Xu captured Sima Xun and killed him.
In the seventh month of autumn, Guiyou, Empress Xiao was buried in Jingping Mausoleum.
In September, during the Sino-Japanese War, Liang and Yizhou were granted amnesty.
In Xinchou, the tenth month of winter, Fu Jian's generals Wang Meng and Yang An attacked Nanxiang. Huan Huo, the governor of Jingzhou, went to rescue them. The army was stationed in Xinye, while Wang Meng and Yang An retreated.
Appointed King Sima Yu of Kuaiji as prime minister.
In December, Nanyang natives Zhao Hong, Zhao Yi and others rebelled against Wancheng, and the prefect Huan Dan fled to Xinye to defend it.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
慕容将慕容厉陷鲁郡、高平。
二年春正月，北中郎将庾希有罪，走入于海。
夏四月，慕容将慕容尘寇竟陵，太守罗崇击破之。
苻坚将王猛寇凉州，张天锡距之，猛师败绩。
五月，右将军桓豁击赵忆，走之，进获慕容将赵槃，送于京师。
秋九月，以会稽内史郗愔为都督徐兗青幽四州诸军事、平北将军、徐州刺史。
冬十月乙巳，彭城王玄薨。
三年春三月丁巳朔，日有蚀之。癸亥，大赦。
夏四月癸巳，雨雹，大风折木。
秋八月壬寅，尚书令、卫将军、蓝田侯王述卒。
四年夏四月庚戌，大司马桓温帅众伐慕容。
秋七月辛卯，将慕容垂帅众距温，温击败之。
九月戊寅，桓温裨将邓遐、硃序遇将傅末波于林渚，又大破之。
戊子，温至枋头。
丙申，以粮运不继，焚舟而归。
translation: 
Murong Wei's general Murong Li captured Lu County and Gaoping.
In the spring of the second year of the lunar month, Yu hope, the general of Beizhonglang, committed a crime and fled to the sea.
In April of summer, Murong Wei's general Murong Chen invaded Jingling, and the prefect Luo Chong defeated them.
Fu Jian's general Wang Meng invaded Kou Liangzhou, Zhang Tianxi attacked them, and Wang Meng's army was severely defeated.
In May, the right general Huanhuo attacked Zhao Yi, but Zhao Yi escaped. Henghuo attacked, captured Murong Wei's general Zhao Pan, and escorted him to the capital.
In the ninth month of autumn, Xi Min, the internal historian of Kuaiji, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of Xu Yanqingyou's military affairs in the four states, the general of Pingbei, and the governor of Xuzhou.
In the tenth month of winter, Sima Xuan, king of Pengcheng, passed away.
In the spring of the third year, on the first day of the third lunar month, there was a solar eclipse. On Guihai day, there is a general amnesty.
In the summer of April, there are hail and tornadoes.
In the eighth month of autumn, Renyin, Shangshu Ling, General Wei, and Lantianhou Wangshu passed away.
In the fourth summer and April of Gengxu, Grand Sima Huanwen led an army to attack Murong Wei.
In the seventh month of autumn, at Xin Mao, Murong Wei's general Murong Chui led his army to resist Ju Wen, but Huan Wen defeated them.
In the ninth month of Wuyin, Huan Wen's generals Deng Xia and Zhu Xu met Murong Wei's general Fu Mobo in Linzhu, and defeated them again.
On Wuzi day, Huan Wen arrived at Fangtou.
On Bingshen day, because the grain and grass transportation could not be picked up, they burned the boats and returned.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
辛丑，慕容垂追败温后军于襄邑。
冬十月，大星西流，有声如雷。
己巳，温收散卒，屯于山阳。
豫州刺史袁真以寿阳叛。
十一月辛丑，桓温自山阳及会稽王昱会于涂中，将谋后举。
十二月，遂城广陵而居之。
五年春正月己亥，袁真子双之、爱之害梁国内史硃宪、汝南内史硃斌。
二月癸酉，袁真死，陈郡太守硃辅立真子瑾嗣事，求救于慕容。
八月癸丑，桓温击袁瑾于寿阳，败之。
九月，苻坚将猛伐慕容，陷其上党。
广汉妖贼李弘与益州妖贼李金根聚众反，弘自称圣王，众万余人，梓潼太守周虓讨平之。
冬十月，王猛大破慕容将慕容评于潞川。
十一月，猛克鄴，获慕容，尽有其地。
六年春正月，苻坚遣将王鉴来援袁瑾，将军桓伊逆击，大破之。
丁亥，桓温克寿阳，斩袁瑾。
三月壬辰，监益宁二州诸军事、冠军将军、益州刺史、建城公周楚卒。
translation: 
On Xinchou day, Murong Chui caught up with and defeated Huan Wen's rear army in Xiangyi.
In October in winter, a comet flies down to the west with a thunderous sound.
On the day of Ji Si, Huan Wen gathered scattered troops and stationed them in Shanyang.
Yuzhou governor Yuan Zhen led Shouyang to rebel.
On Xinchou Day in November, Huan Wen went from Shanyang to Tuzhong to meet with King Sima Yu of Kuaiji to plan future actions.
In December, he settled in Guangling.
In the spring of the fifth year of the first lunar month of Jihai, Yuan Zhen's sons Yuan Shuangzhi and Yuan Aizhi killed Zhu Xian, the internal history of Liang, and Zhu Bin, the internal history of Runan.
In February Guiyou, Yuan Yuanzhen died. Zhu Fu, the governor of Chen County, appointed Yuan Zhen's son Yuan Jin as his heir and asked Murong Wei for help.
At the end of the fourth month of summer, Huan Wen's general Zhu Yao defeated Yuan Jin in Wuqiu.
On the first day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, there is a solar eclipse. In August Guichou, Huan Wen defeated Yuan Jin in Shouyang. In September, Fu Jian's general Wang Meng attacked Murong Wei and captured Shangdang.
The demon thief Li Hong of Guanghan and Li Jingen, the demon thief of Yizhou, gathered people and horses to make a rebellion. Li Hong claimed to be the holy king and had more than 10,000 people. Zhou Gai, the prefect of Zitong, attacked and pacified them.
In the tenth month of winter, Wang Meng defeated Murong Wei's general Murong Ping in Luchuan.
In November, Wang Meng conquered Ye, captured Murong Wei, and occupied all of his territory.
In the spring and first month of the sixth year, Fu Jian sent general Wang Jian to rescue Yuan Jin. General Huan Yi attacked and defeated Wang Jian.
On Dinghai day, Huan Wen captured Shouyang and killed Yuan Jin.
On Renchen in the third month, Zhou Chu, who oversaw the military affairs of the two states of Yining, the champion general, the governor of Yizhou, and the founding father of the city, died.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
夏四月戊午，大赦，赐穷独米，人五斛。
苻坚将苻雅伐仇池，仇池公杨纂降之。
六月，京都及丹阳、晋陵、吴郡、吴兴、临海并大水。
秋八月，以前宁州刺史周仕孙为假节、监益梁二州诸军事、益州刺史。
冬十月壬子，高密王俊薨。
十一月癸卯，桓温自广陵屯于白石。
丁未，诣阙，因图废立，诬帝在籓夙有痿疾，嬖人相龙、计好、硃灵宝等参侍内寝，而二美人田氏、孟氏生三男，长欲封树，时人惑之，温因讽太后以伊霍之举。
己酉，集百官于朝堂，宣崇德太后令曰： 王室艰难，穆、哀短祚，国嗣不育储宫靡立。
琅邪王奕亲则母弟，故以入纂大位。
不图德之不建，乃至于斯。昏浊溃乱，动违礼度。
translation: 
On the fifth day of the fourth month of the summer, there is a general amnesty, and food is given to the poor and the elderly and childless, with each person receiving five huks of dendrobium.
Fu Jian's general Fu Ya attacked Qiu Chi, and Qiu Chi Duke Yang Zuan surrendered.
In June, there are floods in Kyoto, Danyang, Jinling, Wujun, Wuxing, and Linhai.
In autumn and August, Zhou Shisun, the former governor of Ningzhou, was appointed as the governor of Jiajie, supervising the military affairs of the two states of Yiliang and the governor of Yizhou.
In the tenth month of winter, Sima Jun, king of Gaomi, passed away.
In the eleventh month of Guimao, Huan Wen went from Guangling to station in Baishi.
On Ding Wei day, he planned to depose the current emperor and install a new emperor. He spread rumors that the emperor had suffered from impotence when he was feuding. His favorites Xianglong, Jihao, Zhu Lingbao and others were involved in the affairs of the inner chamber, which made his two beauties Tian and Meng give birth to three sick sons. They wanted to be enfeoffed and enthroned. People were confused at that time, so Huan Wen used the deeds of Yi Yin and Huo Guang to tactfully persuade the Queen Mother.
On Jiyou day, hundreds of officials gathered in the court hall and announced the order of Empress Dowager Chongde: The royal family is in a difficult situation. Emperor Mu and Emperor Ai's fortunes were short-lived and they did not have time to raise offspring and could not establish a prince.
Langxie King Sima Yi was the emperor's half-brother according to relatives, so he was allowed to succeed the throne.
Unexpectedly, he did not establish his moral character and would reach such a state of ignorance and disorder, violating etiquette and law.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
有此三孽，莫知谁子。
人伦道丧，丑声遐布。
既不可以奉守社稷，敬承宗庙，且昏孽并大，便欲建树储籓。
诬罔祖宗，颂移皇基，是而可忍，孰不可怀！
今废奕为东海王，以王还第，供卫之仪，皆如汉朝昌邑故事。
但未亡人不幸，罹此百忧，感念存没，心焉如割。
社稷大计，义不获已。
临纸悲塞，如何可言。
于是百官入太极前殿，即日桓温使散骑侍郎刘享收帝玺绶。
帝著白帢单衣，步下西堂，乘犊车出神兽门。
群臣拜辞，莫不觑欷。
侍御史、殿中监将兵百人卫送东海第。
初，桓温有不臣之心，欲先立功河朔，以收时望。
及枋头之败，威名顿挫，逐潜谋废立，以长威权。
然惮帝守道，恐招时议。
translation: 
I don’t know whose son these three evil obstacles are.
Human ethics are lost, and the reputation of ugliness spreads far and wide.
Sima Yi could not uphold the country and respect his ancestors, but he was also extremely confused and rebellious, yet he wanted to make a prince a vassal king.
It is intolerable to deceive the ancestors and shake the foundation of the royal family, but what is intolerable!
Now Sima Yi is deposed as the King of Donghai, and he returns to the mansion as the King of Donghai. The standards for enshrining and guarding are the same as those of the King of Changyi in the Han Dynasty.
It is my misfortune that I have encountered so many sorrows. Thinking of the living and the dead makes my heart feel like a knife.
The great plan of the country, the great righteousness has not been carried out.
How could I still speak when I was so sad in front of the paper?
So all the officials entered the front hall of Taiji, and that day Huan Wen asked Liu Xiang, the minister of Sanqi, to take back the emperor's seal and ribbon.
The emperor, wearing a white silk hat and single clothes, walked down the west hall and drove out of the Divine Beast Gate in an ox cart.
The ministers bid farewell respectfully, all looking at him and sighing.
The censor and eunuch led a hundred soldiers to escort him to Donghai Mansion.
At first, Huan Wen had the ambition to seize the throne and planned to perform meritorious service in Heshuo first to gain the attention and reputation of the world.
After Fangtou failed, his prestige was suddenly damaged, so he secretly planned to abolish the emperor and establish a new emperor in order to increase his power.
But he was also afraid that the emperor would stick to the right path and worry that doing so would attract criticism.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
以宫阐重闷，床笫易诬，乃言帝为阉，遂行废辱。
初，帝平生每以为虑，尝召术人扈谦筮之，卦成，答曰： 晋室有盘石之固，陛下有出宫之象。
竟如其言。
咸安二年正月，降封帝为海西县公。
四月，徙居吴县，敕吴国内史刁彝防卫，又遣御史顾允监察之。
十一月，妖贼卢悚遣弟子殿中监许龙晨到其门，称太后密诏，奉迎兴复。
帝初欲从之，纳保母谏而止。
龙曰： 大事将捷，焉用兒女子言乎？
帝曰： 我得罪于此，幸蒙宽宥，岂敢妄动哉！
且太后有诏，便应官属来，何独使汝也？
汝必为乱。
因叱左右缚之，龙惧而走。
帝知天命不可再，深虑横祸，乃杜塞聪明，无思无虑，终日酣暢，耽于内宠，有子不育，庶保天年。
translation: 
Because the affairs in the boudoir were secretive and the affairs in the bed were easy to be falsely accused, Gong Chan spread the word that the emperor was a man without sexual ability. So it was deposed.
At first, the emperor was often worried about Huan Wen. He once summoned the sorcerer Hu Qian to lower his banquet. After the hexagrams came out, Hu Qian said: The Jin royal family is as stable as a rock. Your Majesty has the slightest sign of leaving the palace.
The result turned out to be the same as Hu Qian said.
In the first month of the second year of Xian'an, the emperor was granted the title of Duke of Haixi County.
In April, he moved to Wu County. He ordered Wu Domestic Shi Diao Yi to defend himself, and sent Yu Shi Gu Yun to supervise.
In November, the demon thief Lu Ju sent his disciple Xu Long to the gate of Haixi County Duke early in the morning. He said that there was a secret edict from the Queen Mother to welcome Haixi County Duke back to restore the throne.
The emperor initially wanted to obey Xu Long, but gave up after listening to the centralized and unified advice.
Xu Long said: "The big thing is about to succeed, why do you still listen to women?"
The emperor said: I committed such a crime, but fortunately I was forgiven. How dare I act rashly!
And if the Queen Mother has an edict, she should send her confidants. Why should it be you?
You must be causing trouble.
He shouted to his attendants to tie him up, and Xu Long fled in panic.
The emperor knew that he could not win the throne again, and was very worried about misfortune, so he turned a blind eye to worldly affairs and was carefree. He drank and had fun all day long, indulged in his favorites, and did not raise his son in the hope of preserving himself.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
时人怜之，为作歌焉。
朝廷以帝安于屈辱，不复为虞。
太元十一年十月甲申，薨于吴，时年四十五。
史臣曰：孝宗因繦抱之姿，用母氏之化，中外无事，十有余年。
以武安之才，启之疆埸；以文王之风，被乎江汉，则孔子所谓吾无间然矣。
哀皇宽惠，可以为君，而鸿祀禳天，用尘其德。
东海违许龙之驾，屈放命之臣，所谓柔弱胜刚强，得尽于天年者也。
赞曰：委裘称化，大孝为宗，遵彼圣善，成兹允恭。
西旌玉垒，北旆金墉。
迁殷旧僰，莫不来从。
哀后宽仁，惟灵既集。
海西多故，时灾见及。
彼异阿衡，我非昌邑。
translation: 
People at that time pitied him and sang his praises.
Because the emperor was content with humiliation, the court no longer worried about his comeback.
In the tenth month of the eleventh year of Taiyuan (Jiashen), the emperor passed away in Wu State at the age of forty-five.
Shi Chen said: Xiaozong was young and was regent by his mother. There was no trouble at home and abroad, and it was stable for more than ten years.
If you use the talents of King Wu An to open up the battlefield; if you use the style of King Wen of Zhou and spread it to Jianghan, then this is what Confucius said and there is no objection.
The mournful emperor was generous and benevolent, and could be a king, but when he offered sacrifices and prayed to heaven, his virtue was tarnished.
Haixi Gong refused Xu Long to restore him to the throne and succumbed to the exiled ministers. As the saying goes, the weak is stronger than the strong and can enjoy the rest of his life.
Praise said: The emperor's throne is in vain, the mother is in power, and filial piety is the foundation. Follow your mother’s teachings and achieve integrity and humility.
It can be used as an example for the jade barrier in the west, and it can be used as a banner for the golden jade in the north.
The Yin people who migrated and the Bo people who followed the Japanese all came to submit.
After mourning, he was generous and benevolent, and the gods came to gather.
Haixi Gong was in trouble, and disaster befell him.
He is not a minister, and I am not Changyi.


