Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝元皇后，王莽姑也。
莽自谓黄帝之后，其《自本》曰：黄帝姓姚氏，八世生虞舜。
舜起妫汭，以妫为姓。
至周武王封舜后妫满于陈，是为胡公，十三世生完。
完字敬仲，奔齐，齐桓公以为卿，姓田氏。
十一世，田和有齐国，二世称王，至王建为秦所灭。
项羽起，封建孙安为济北王。
至汉兴，安失国，齐人谓之 王家 ，因以为氏。
文、景间，安孙遂字伯纪，处东平陵，生贺，字翁孺。
为武帝绣衣御史，逐捕魏郡群盗坚卢等党与，及吏畏懦逗留当坐者，翁孺皆纵不诛。
它部御史暴胜之等奏杀二千石，诛千石以下，及通行饮食坐连及者，大部至斩万余人，语见《酷吏传》。
翁孺以奉使不称免，叹曰： 吾闻活千人者有封子孙，吾所活者万余人，后世其兴乎！
翁孺既免，而与东平陵终氏为怨，乃徙魏郡元城委粟里，为三老，魏郡人德之。
元城建公曰： 昔春秋沙麓崩，晋史卜之，曰： 阴为阳雄，土火相乘，故有沙麓崩。
translation: 
Queen Xiaoyuan is Wang Mang's aunt.
Wang Mang claimed to be a descendant of the Yellow Emperor. In his autobiography of his lineage, "Ziben", he said: The Yellow Emperor's surname was Yao, and his eighth-generation grandson was Yu Shun.
Shun rose from the bend of Ma River and took Yan as his surname.
At the time of King Wu of Zhou Dynasty, Yan Man, a descendant of Shun, was granted the title of Lord Hu in Chen. He was passed down to the thirteenth generation and gave birth to Chen Wan.
Chen Wan, whose courtesy name was Jingzhong, fled to the State of Qi. Duke Huan of Qi worshiped him as his minister, and his surname was Tian.
In the eleventh generation, Tian He took control of the Qi State, and passed on for two more generations to become king. When it was passed to Qi King Tian Jian, the Qi State was destroyed by the Qin State.
Xiang Yu raised an army and made Tian An, the grandson of King Tian Jian of Qi, the King of Jibei.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Tian An lost his feudal state. The people of Qi called him "Wang Family" and took Wang as their surname.
During the reigns of Emperors Wen and Jing, Wang An's grandson Wang Sui, also named Boji, lived in Shupingling. Wang Sui gave birth to Wang He, also named Wengru.
Weng Ru was Emperor Wu's embroidered censor. He arrested the associates of the bandit Jian Lu and others in Wei County, as well as the cowardly and stagnant officials who should be punished. Weng Ru let them all go without severe punishment.
Other censors, such as Bao Shengzhi, petitioned to kill officials worth two thousand shi. Officials with less than 1,000 shi were left at their disposal. There were also those who were implicated due to their dealings. In severe cases, tens of thousands of people were killed. These are all recorded in the "Biography of Cool Officials".
Weng Ru was dismissed because he was ordered to perform a task that was not in line with the emperor's wishes. He sighed and said: I heard that if you save a thousand people, your descendants will be rewarded. I have rescued more than ten thousand people. Does it mean that the descendants will be prosperous!
After Weng Ru resigned from office, he developed a grudge against the Zhong family of Shu Pingling, so he moved to Suli, Yuancheng Committee, Wei County, and became the third elder. The people of Wei County were very grateful to him.
Duke Jiang of Yuancheng said: In the past, during the Spring and Autumn Period, Shalu collapsed. Taishi of the Jin Dynasty performed a divination and said: Yin was strong and Yang was declining, and earth and fire were fighting, so Shalu collapsed.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
后六百四十五年，宜有圣女兴。
其齐田乎！今王翁孺徙，正真其地，日月当之。
元城郭东有五鹿之虚，即沙鹿地也。
后八十年，当有贵女兴天下 云。
翁孺生禁，字稚君，少学法律长安，为廷尉史，本始三年，生女政君，即元后也。
禁有大志，不修廉隅，好酒色，多取傍妻，凡有四女八男；长女君侠，次即元后政君，次君力，次君弟；长男凤孝卿，次曼元卿，谭子元，崇少子，商子夏，立子叔，根稚卿，逢时委卿，唯凤、崇与元后政君同母。
母，適妻，魏郡李氏女也。
后以妒去，更嫁为河内苟宾妻。
初，李亲任政君在身，梦月入其怀。
及壮大，婉顺得妇人道。
尝许嫁未行，所许者死。
后东平王聘政君为姬，未入，王薨。
禁独怪之，使卜数者相政君， 当大贵，不可言。
禁心以为然，乃教书，学鼓琴。
五凤中，献政君，年十八矣，入掖庭为家人子。
translation: 
Six hundred and forty-five years later, a virtuous woman will appear.
It was probably the Qitian clan. Now Wang Wengru happened to move to this place, and the time is consistent with the divination.
To the east of Yuancheng are the ruins of Wulu, which is the former site of Shalu.
Eighty years later, the Wang family will have a noble daughter who will flourish in the world.
Wang Wengru gave birth to Wang Jin, named Zhijun. When he was young, he studied law in Chang'an and became a court official. In the third year of Benshi, she gave birth to her daughter Zhengjun, who was also the Queen of Yuan Dynasty.
Wang Jin had great ambitions, indulged in wine and sex, and took many concubines. He had four daughters and eight sons in total: the eldest daughter Junxia, ​​the second daughter was the empress of the Yuan Dynasty, the third daughter Junli, and the younger daughter Jundi; Only Wang Feng, Wang Chong and Yuan Hou Zhengjun were born from the same mother.
Their mother is the head wife, the daughter of Li family in Wei County.
Later, he was divorced due to jealousy and remarried to Hanoi Goubin's wife.
At first, when Mrs. Li was pregnant with Zhengjun, she dreamed of the moon falling into her belly.
When Zhengjun grows up, he will be gentle and abide by women's conduct.
I was once betrothed to someone, but before I got married, the other person died.
Later, King Shuhu married Zhengjun as his concubine, but before Zhengjun entered the palace, King Shuping also passed away.
Wang Jin felt strange and asked a magician to see Mr. Zheng. He said it was extremely valuable.
Wang Jinxin also thought that this was the case, so he taught his daughter to read and play the piano.
In the year of Wufeng, Lord Xianzheng entered the palace. She was already eighteen years old at that time and was a family member in Yeting.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
岁余，会皇太子所爱幸司马良娣病，且死，谓太子曰： 妾死非天命，乃诸娣妾良人更祝诅杀我。
太子怜之，且以为然。
及司马良娣死，太子悲恚发病，忽忽不乐，因以过怒诸娣妾，莫得进见者。
久之，宣帝闻太子恨过诸娣妾，欲顺适其意，乃令皇后择后宫家人子可以虞侍太子者，政君与在其中。
及太子朝，皇后乃见政君等五人，微令旁长御问知太子所欲。
太子殊无意于五人者，不得已于皇后，强应曰： 此中一人可。
是时政君坐近太子，又独衣绛缘诸于，长御即以为是。
皇后使侍中杜辅、掖庭令浊贤交送政君太子宫，见丙殿。得御幸，有身。
先是者，太子后宫娣妾以十数，御幸久者七八年，莫有子，及王妃一幸而有身。
甘露三年，生成帝于甲馆画堂，为世適皇孙。
translation: 
More than a year later, Sima Liangdi, the crown prince's favorite, fell ill. When she was about to die, she said to the prince: My death was not due to God's will, but because your concubines killed me by practicing blessings and curses.
The prince took pity on her and thought so.
After Sima Liangdi died, the prince fell ill with grief and became depressed. He vented his anger on all the concubines, and no one could get his summons.
After meeting for a while, Emperor Xiaoxuan heard that the prince hated all the concubines, so he planned to follow his wishes and let the queen choose the family members in the harem who could make the prince happy, and Zhengjun was among them.
When the prince came to pay homage, the queen called out Zheng Jun and five other people, and secretly sent Chang Yu beside her to ask the prince which one he liked.
The prince had no interest in making five people at first, but he couldn't go against the queen's kindness, so he reluctantly replied: "One of them is okay."
At that time, Masahiro was sitting near the prince and was wearing a red-edged loose coat alone. Changyu thought that the prince was talking about her.
The queen sent her attendants Du Fu and Ye Tingling Zhuoxian to send the prince into the prince's womb. He was summoned by the prince in the Bing Palace and was lucky enough to become pregnant.
It turned out that there were more than a dozen concubines in the prince's harem, and some of them had been concubines for seven or eight years, but none of them gave birth. However, when the princess got the concubine, she got pregnant once.
In the third year of Ganlu's reign, Emperor Cheng was born in the Jiaguan Painting Hall, and he was the eldest grandson of the current generation.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
宣帝爱之，自名曰骜，字太孙，常置左右。
后三年，宣帝崩，太子即位，是为孝元帝。
立太孙为太子，以母王妃为婕妤，封父禁为阳平侯。
后三日，婕妤立为皇后，禁位特进，禁弟弘至长乐卫尉。
永光二年，禁薨，谥曰顷侯。
长子凤嗣侯，为卫尉侍中，皇后自有子后，希复进见。
太子壮大，宽博恭慎，语在《成纪》。
其后幸酒，乐燕乐，元帝不以为能。
而傅昭仪有宠于上，生定陶共王。
王多材艺，上甚爱之，坐则侧席，行则同辇，常有意欲废太子而立共王。
时凤在位，与皇后、太子同心忧惧，刺侍中史丹拥右太子，语在《丹传》。
上亦以皇后素谨慎，而太子先帝所常留意，故得不废。
元帝崩，太子立，是为孝成帝。
尊皇后为皇太后，以凤为大司马大将军领尚书事，益封五千户。
王氏之兴自凤始。
又封太后同母弟崇为安成侯，食邑万户。
凤庶弟谭等皆赐爵关内侯，食邑。
translation: 
Emperor Xuan liked this grandson very much and named him Liu Yuan, also known as Taisun, and often took him with him.
Three years later, Emperor Xuan died and the prince ascended the throne, becoming Emperor Xiaoyuan.
The grandson was registered as the prince, the prince's mother, the princess, was named Jieyu, and Wang Jieyu's father, Wang Jin, was named Marquis of Yangping.
Three days later, Wang Jieyu was appointed queen, Wang Jin was given the special throne, and Wang Jin's younger brother Wang Hong became the Changle Guardsman.
In the second year of Yongguang's reign, Wang Jin died and Mi was given the title of Marquis of Qing.
The eldest son Wang Feng inherited the title of Marquis and was appointed as a Weiwei Shizhong. Since the queen gave birth to her son, she has rarely been summoned by Emperor Yuan.
When the prince grew up, he was generous, understanding, respectful and prudent. These are all recorded in the "Chronicle of the Emperor".
Later, the prince was fond of drinking and feasting for fun. Emperor Yuan thought he had no talent.
Fu Zhaoyi was favored by the emperor and gave birth to King Dingtao Gong.
King Gong was versatile, and Emperor Yuan liked him very much. He let him sit next to him when he ate, and let him ride in the same chariot with him when traveling. He often planned to abolish the prince and establish a king in his place.
At that time, Wang Feng was an official in the court and was worried about this matter together with the queen and the prince. Fortunately, Shi Dan, the servant, supported the prince. This incident was recorded in Shi Dan's original biography.
Emperor Yuan also felt that the queen was always cautious, and the prince was highly valued by the late emperor, so he did not abolish the prince.
After the death of Emperor Yuan, the prince ascended the throne and became Emperor Xiaocheng.
The queen was honored as the empress dowager, Wang Feng was appointed as the great general of Sima to lead the secretarial affairs, and five thousand households were granted the title of fief.
The prosperity of the Wang family began with Wang Feng.
He also granted the title of Marquis of Ancheng to the Queen Mother's younger half-brother Wang Chong, who was granted the title of Marquis of Ancheng, with a household of 10,000 households.
Wang Feng's concubine Wang Tan and others were given the title of Marquis of Guannei and were rewarded with food and towns.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
其夏，黄雾四塞终日。
天子以问谏大夫杨兴、博王驷胜等，对皆以为： 阴盛侵阳之气也。
高祖之约也，非功臣不侯，今太后诸弟皆以无功为侯，非高祖之约，外戚未曾有也，故天为见异。
言事者多以为然。
凤于是惧，上书辞谢曰： 陛下即位，思慕谅闇，故诏臣凤典领尚书事，上无以明圣德，下无以益政治。
今有茀星天地赤黄之异，咎在臣凤，当伏显戮，以谢天下。
今谅门闇已毕，大义皆举，宜躬亲万机，以承天心。
因乞骸骨辞职。
上报曰： 朕承先帝圣绪，涉道未深，不明事情，是以阴阳错缪，日月无光，赤黄之气，充塞天下。
咎在朕躬，今大将军乃引过自予，欲上尚书事，归大将军印绶，罢大司马官，是明朕之不德也。
朕委将军以事，诚欲庶几有成，显先祖之功德。
将军其专心固意，辅朕之不逮，毋有所疑。
translation: 
This summer, the sky was filled with yellow fog all day long.
Emperor Cheng asked the doctor Yang Xing, Dr. Si Sheng and others to advise him. Their answers were that it was due to excessive Yin Qi, which infringed Yang Qi.
Emperor Gaozu made an oath at the time that ministers who were not meritorious could not be granted the title of marquis, but now the Queen Mother's younger brothers were granted the title of marquis without any merit, which violated the agreement of Emperor Gaozu. This situation had never happened to his relatives, so God showed a strange phenomenon for them.
Everyone who advises me thinks so.
Wang Feng was frightened and wrote a letter to resign, saying: Your Majesty succeeded to the throne and was devoted to mourning, so he ordered me to take charge of the affairs of the Secretariat on his behalf. I cannot show off the virtues of the Holy King to the superiors, and I cannot contribute to politics to the subordinates.
Now a disaster has occurred in the world, and the responsibility lies with me. I should be killed as a way of thanking everyone in the world.
Now that your period of filial piety has expired, Your Majesty understands the great righteousness and should personally handle the state affairs in order to obey God's will.
So he asked to retire and return to his hometown.
Emperor Cheng replied: I inherited the late emperor's work, but I am not experienced in the world and do not understand the principles. Therefore, the yin and yang are confused, the moon has no light, and the yellow fog spreads all over the world.
The blame lies with me. Now the general has taken the blame on himself and plans to hand it over to the minister, return the general's seal and ribbon, and remove the chief minister from his official position. This clearly shows that I have no virtue.
I entrust the affairs to the general because I really hope to achieve something and promote the merits of our ancestors.
General, please calm down and help me where I can't, and don't be suspicious.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
后五年，诸吏散骑安成侯崇薨，谥曰共侯。
有遗腹子奉世嗣侯，太后甚哀之。
明年，河平二年，上悉封舅谭为平阿侯，商成都侯，立红阳侯，根曲阳侯，逢时高平侯。
五人同日封，故世谓之 五侯 。
太后同产唯曼蚤卒，余毕侯矣。
太后母李亲，苟氏妻，生一男名参，寡居。
顷侯禁在时，太后令禁还李亲。
太后怜参，欲以田蚡为比而封之。
上曰： 封田氏，非正也。
以参为侍中水衡都尉。
王氏子弟皆卿、大夫、侍中、诸曹，分据势官满朝廷。
大将军凤用事，上遂谦让无所颛。
左右常荐光禄大夫刘向少子歆通达有异材。
上召见歆，诵读诗赋，甚说之，欲以为中常侍，召取衣冠。
临当拜，左右皆曰： 未晓大将军。
translation: 
Five years later, the officials dispersed and An Chenghou Wang Chong died, and Mi was named Gonghou.
Wang Chong had a son named Wang Fengshi who inherited the throne. The Queen Mother was very sad.
In the next year, that is, the second year of Heping, Emperor Cheng made all his uncles marquises. Wang Tan was the Marquis of Ping'a, Wang Shang was the Marquis of Chengdu, Wang Li was the Marquis of Hongyang, Wang Gen was the Marquis of Quyang, and Wang Fengshi was the Marquis of Gaoping.
Five people were granted the title of Marquis on the same day, so people called them the Five Marquises.
Among the Queen Mother's half-brothers, only Wang Man died early, and the rest were granted the title of marquis.
The Queen Mother's mother, Li Qin, was the wife of the Gou family. She gave birth to a son named Gou Shen. Li Qin was a widow at home.
When Wang Jin, the Marquis of Qing, was still alive, the Queen Mother ordered Wang Jin to take back Li Qin.
The Queen Mother felt pity for Gou Shen and planned to reward him according to Tian Pan's treatment.
Emperor Cheng said: In the past, it was incorrect to grant rewards to the Tian family.
So Gou Shen was made the captain of Shui Heng.
The children of the Wang family were all officials of the rank and file, occupying various key departments throughout the imperial court.
General Wang Feng held great power, and Emperor Cheng was humble in everything and did not dare to have his own way.
The ministers on the left and right often recommended Liu Xin, the youngest son of Guanglu doctor Liu Xiang, saying that he was knowledgeable and talented.
Emperor Cheng summoned Liu Xin and asked him to read poems. He was very happy and planned to make him a regular attendant and ordered someone to fetch him clothes and hats.
When it was time to pay homage, everyone on the left and right said: I wonder if the general agrees.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
上曰： 此小事，何须关大将军？
左右叩头争之。
上于是语凤，凤以为不可，乃止。
其见惮如此。
上即位数年，无继嗣，体常不平。
定陶共王来朝，太后与上承先帝意，遇共王甚厚，赏赐十倍于它王，不以往事为纤介。
共王之来朝也，天子留，不遣归国。
上谓共王： 我未有子，人命不讳，一朝有它，且不复相见。
尔长留侍我矣！
其后，天子疾益有瘳，共王因留国邸，旦夕侍上，上甚亲重。
大将军凤心不便共王在京师，会日蚀，凤因言： 日蚀，阴盛之象，为非常异。
定陶王虽亲，于礼当奉藩在国。
今留侍京师，诡正非常，故天见戒。
宜遣王之国。
上不得已于凤而许之。
共王辞去，上与相对涕泣而决。
translation: 
Emperor Cheng said: Do you still need to ask the general for such a small matter?
Kowtow to the left and right and insist on doing so.
Emperor Cheng told Wang Feng. Wang Feng thought it was impossible, so he had to give up.
Emperor Cheng was afraid of Wang Feng to such an extent.
Emperor Cheng had been in power for several years, had no heirs, and was often unwell.
King Dingtao came to see him. The Queen Mother and Emperor Cheng followed the late emperor's wishes and treated him favorably. They rewarded him ten times as much as other princes and kings. They did not take to heart the past festivals that almost destroyed the prince.
After the king came to see him, Emperor Cheng kept him in the capital and refused to let him return to his country.
Emperor Cheng said to King Gong: I still have no son, and human life is impermanent and cannot be denied. Once something changes, we will no longer be able to meet each other.
Just stay in the capital and stay with me!
Later, Emperor Cheng's illness worsened, so the king lived in the palace and served Emperor Cheng day and night. Emperor Cheng was very close to him and relied on him.
General Wang Feng believed that it was not good for him to stay in the capital. When a solar eclipse happened, Gong Feng said: A solar eclipse is a phenomenon caused by excessive Yin energy, and it is an unusual disaster.
Although King Dingtao is a close relative, he should still guard the feudal state according to etiquette.
Now I am staying in the capital to serve His Majesty. I have violated the right path and broken the rules. Therefore, God has shown a vision to warn me.
King Dingtao should be allowed to return to the feudal state.
Emperor Cheng had no choice but to agree.
When King Gong was leaving, Emperor Cheng and he faced each other and said goodbye in tears.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
京兆尹王章素刚直敢言，以为凤建遣共王之国非是，乃奏封事言日蚀之咎矣。
天子召见章，延问以事，章对曰： 天道聪明，佑善而灾恶，以瑞异为符效。
今陛下以未有继嗣，引近定陶王，所以承宗庙，重社稷，上顺天心，下安百姓。
此正义善事，当有祥瑞，何故致灾异？
灾异之发，为大臣颛政者也。
今闻大将军猥归日蚀之咎于定陶王，建遣之国，苟欲使天子孤立于上，颛擅朝事以便其私，非忠臣也。
且日蚀，阴侵阳、臣颛君之咎，今政事大小皆自凤出，天子曾不一举手，凤不内省责，反归咎善人，推远定陶王。
且凤诬罔不忠，非一事也。
translation: 
Wang Zhang of Jingzhao Yin was upright by nature and dared to speak out. He thought it was wrong for Wang Feng to suggest that the Communist king should return to his country, so he wrote a secret memorial to Emperor Cheng, explaining who was responsible for the solar eclipse.
Emperor Cheng summoned Wang Zhang and asked about this matter. Wang Zhang replied: God is holy and wise. It protects good and punishes evil. It is verified by auspicious and disasterous celestial phenomena.
Now that your majesty has no heirs, he is close to King Dingtao in order to continue the ancestral temple, focus on the country and the country, obey the will of God on the one hand, and appease the people on the other.
This is a good and moral thing. There should be auspicious signs coming. How could it lead to disaster?
The occurrence of disasters is due to the dictatorship of ministers.
Now I heard that General Jingcha blamed King Dingtao for the solar eclipse and suggested that he should be sent back to the feudal state. This was because he wanted to isolate His Majesty and allow him to rule exclusively to satisfy his own desires. This is not the behavior of a loyal minister.
Moreover, the occurrence of the solar eclipse was due to the sin of Yin Qi invading Yang Qi and the ministers' monopolization of the monarch's power. Now, Wang Feng decides all national affairs, big or small, and the emperor cannot do anything. Wang Feng does not reflect on his mistakes, but blames good people and puts it on King Dingtao.
Moreover, Wang Feng's false accusation of others and his disloyalty was not just a matter of this kind.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
前丞相乐昌侯商本以先帝外属，内行笃，有威重，位历将相，国家柱石臣也，其人守正，不肯诎节随凤委曲，卒用闺门之事为凤所罢，身以忧死，众庶愍之。
又凤知其小妇弟张美人已尝适人，于礼不宜配御至尊，托以为宜子，内之后宫，苟以私其妻弟。
闻张美人未尝任身就馆也。
且羌胡尚杀首子以荡肠正世，况于天子而近已出之女也！
此三者皆大事，陛下所自见，足以知其余，及它所不见者。
凤不可令久典事，宜退使就第，选忠贤以代之。
自凤之白罢商后遣定陶王也，上不能平。
及闻章言，天子感寤，纳之，谓章曰： 微京兆尹直言，吾不闻社稷计！
且唯贤知贤，君试为朕求可以自辅者。
于是章奏封事，荐中山孝王舅琅邪太守冯野王 先帝时历二卿，忠信质直，知谋有余。
野王以王舅出，以贤复人，明圣主乐进贤也。
上自为太子时数闻野王先帝名卿，声誉出凤远甚，方倚欲以代凤。
初，章每召见，上辄辟左右。
时太后从弟长乐卫尉弘子侍中音独侧听，具知章言，以语凤。
凤闻之，称病出就第，上疏乞骸骨，谢上曰： 臣材驽愚戆，得以外属兄弟七人封为列侯，宗族蒙恩，赏赐无量。
translation: 
The former prime minister, Wang Shang, the Marquis of Lechang, was a relative of the late emperor. He was virtuous and prestigious. He was ranked among generals and prime ministers. He was an important minister of the country. He adhered to justice and refused to give up his integrity to cater to Wang Feng. He was finally dismissed by Wang Feng because of internal affairs in his boudoir. He died of fear. The people pitied him.
Moreover, Wang Feng knew that his concubine's sister, Zhang Meiren, was once married and could no longer serve the emperor according to etiquette. However, Wang Feng used the excuse that she was suitable for childbearing and sent her to the harem in order to benefit his wife's sister.
I heard that Zhang Meiren was not pregnant and had to give birth outside the home.
Barbarians such as the Qiang and Hu even killed their first sons to ensure the purity of their bloodline, not to mention how could the emperor get close to a married woman!
These three items are all important matters. Your Majesty can see them yourself, and from this you can completely infer the rest of the matters, as well as those things that cannot be seen.
People like Wang Feng cannot be allowed to rule for a long time. He should be allowed to retreat to the palace and other loyal and wise ministers should be chosen to replace him.
Since Wang Feng suggested deposing Wang Shang and later sent King Dingtao back to the feudal state, Emperor Cheng was filled with anger and dissatisfaction.
After listening to Wang Zhang's words, Emperor Cheng realized something, so he adopted Wang Zhang's opinion and said to Wang Zhang: Without Jing Zhaoyin's outspoken advice, I would not have heard of such a national plan!
Besides, only wise people can understand wise people. Try to find me a few people who can assist in government affairs.
So Wang Zhang wrote a secret memorial, recommending Prince Xiao of Zhongshan's uncle Langye Prefecture Feng Yewang. He was the second minister during the late emperor's reign. He was loyal, upright, and very resourceful.
As the uncle of King Xiao, King Feng Ye served as a foreign official and was recalled because of his virtue. This shows that a wise monarch likes to appoint wise men.
When Emperor Cheng was the crown prince, he heard many times that King Feng Ye was a famous minister of the late emperor, and his reputation was far higher than that of Wang Feng, so he planned to let him replace Wang Feng.
At the beginning, every time Wang Zhang was summoned, Emperor Cheng would retreat.
At that time, the Queen Mother's cousin Wang Yin, the son of Changle Guardsman Wang Hong, eavesdropped on their conversation, knew everything about Wang Zhang's plan, and told Wang Feng.
After Wang Feng heard this, he complained of illness and returned to his mansion. Shangshu asked to resign and return to his hometown. He said goodbye to the emperor: "I am stupid and stupid, but I was able to make seven of my relatives and brothers a prince. My family received the emperor's favor and received countless rewards."


Chunk 9: 
original: 
辅政出入七年，国家委任臣凤，所言辄听，荐士常用。
无一功善，阴阳不调，灾异数见，咎在臣凤奉职无状，此臣一当退也。
《五经》传记，师所诵说，咸以日蚀之咎在于大臣非其人，《易》曰 折其右肱 ，此臣二当退也。
河平以来，臣久病连年，数出在外，旷职素餐，此臣三当退也。
陛下以皇太后故不忍诛废，臣犹自知当远流放，又重自念，兄弟宗族所蒙不测，当杀身靡骨死辇毂下，不当以无益之故有离寝门之心，诚岁余以来，所苦加侵，日日益甚，不胜大愿，愿乞骸骨，归自治养，冀赖陛下神灵，未埋发齿，期月之间，幸得瘳愈，复望帷幄，不然，必置沟壑。
臣以非材见私，天下知臣受恩深也；以病得全骸骨归，天下知臣被恩见哀，重巍巍也。
进退于国为厚，万无纤介之议。
唯陛下哀怜！
translation: 
I have been assisting the government for seven years, and the emperor has entrusted me with important responsibilities. I listen to people's suggestions and often appoint wise men and women.
Nothing was done well, which led to disharmony between yin and yang and frequent disasters. The root cause was that I had no merit in my tenure. This was the first reason why I should retire.
The records in the "Five Classics" and what the scribes said all attribute the blame for the solar eclipse to the improper appointment of ministers. The "Book of Changes" says that I broke my right arm. This is the second reason why I should retire.
Since the Heping period, I have been ill for many years and have been recuperating at home many times. I have ignored government affairs and only received rank and salary. This is the third reason why I should retire.
Your Majesty cannot bear to depose me because of the Empress Dowager. I also know that I should be exiled to a distant place, but I also think in my heart that the holy grace my family has received is immeasurable. I should be diligent in royal affairs and not hesitate to break my body. I should not have the thought of leaving the emperor just because I am useless. Over the past year or so, my illness has indeed gotten worse and worse day by day, and my wish has been difficult to realize. I just want to resign and go back to my hometown to recuperate on my own. I hope that I can rely on His Majesty's gods to survive and recover within a month and see Your Majesty again. Otherwise, I will be buried underground.
I have no talent, but I am favored by His Majesty, and everyone in the world knows that I have received great favor from the Emperor. When I resigned and returned to my hometown due to illness, everyone in the world knows that I was pitied and favored by Your Majesty, and the Emperor's favor is so great.
My return to my hometown will be of great benefit to the country and will not cause much discussion.
Please have mercy on me, Your Majesty!


Chunk 10: 
original: 
其辞指甚哀，太后闻之为垂涕，不御食。
上少而亲倚凤，弗忍废，乃报凤曰： 朕秉事不明，政事多阙，故天变娄臻，咸在朕躬。
将军乃深引过自予，欲乞骸骨而退，则朕将何向焉！
《书》不云乎？ 公毋困我 。务专精神，安心自持，期于亟廖，称朕意焉。
于是凤起视事。
上使尚书劾奏章： 知野王前以王舅出补吏，而私荐之，欲令在朝阿附诸侯；又知张美人体御至尊，而妄称引羌胡杀子荡肠，非所宜言。
遂下章吏。
廷尉致其大逆罪，以为 比上夷狄，欲绝继嗣之端；背畔天子，私为定陶王。
章死狱中，妻子徙合浦。
自是公卿见凤，侧目而视，郡国守相、刺吏皆出其门。
又以侍中太仆音为御史大夫，列于三公。
translation: 
The words were very sad, and after hearing about it, the Queen Mother cried for him and couldn't eat.
Emperor Cheng had relied on Wang Feng since he was a child. He couldn't bear to remove him, so he replied to Wang Feng: I am not good at managing government. There are many flaws in the management of state affairs. Therefore, God has repeatedly caused disasters, which are all my responsibility.
The general took all the blame on himself and planned to resign and return home. So who will I rely on?
Isn’t it said in the Book of Books? Don't go away and put me in trouble. You must cheer up, calm down, and restrain yourself. I hope that the disease can be cured immediately, and I will be satisfied.
So Wang Feng rose up and took charge again.
Emperor Cheng sent a minister to impeach Wang Zhang for his crime, saying: Knowing that King Feng Ye had previously served in the capital as the uncle of King Xiao, he recommended him privately in order to make the ministers in the court attach themselves to the princes and kings; and he also knew that Zhang Meiren was serving the emperor, but he led Qiang and Hu people to kill the first child to pure blood. This is not what a minister should say.
Then Wang Zhang was handed over to the judge for trial.
The Tingwei accused Wang Zhang of treason, thinking that he wanted to cut off the emperor's heirs by comparing the emperor to the Yi Di; he betrayed the emperor and secretly planned to be King Dingtao.
Wang Zhang died in prison, and his wife and children were exiled to Hepu.
From then on, when the ministers saw Wang Feng, they did not dare to look directly at him, and the local officials in the prefecture and state were all his cronies.
He also named Wang Yin, the imperial servant in the palace, as the official censor, ranking among the three nobles.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
而五侯群弟，争为奢移，赂遗珍宝，四面而至；后廷姬妾，各数十人，僮奴以千百数，罗钟馨，舞郑女，作倡优，狗马驰逐；大治第室，起土山渐台，洞门高廊阁道，连属弥望。
百姓歌之曰： 五侯初起，曲阳最怒，坏决高都，连竟外杜，土山渐台西白虎。
其奢僣如此。
然皆通敏人事，好士养贤，倾财施予，以相高尚。
凤辅政凡十一岁。
阳朔三年秋，凤疾，天子数自临问，亲执其手，涕泣曰： 将军病，如有不可言，平阿侯谭次将军矣。
凤顿首泣曰： 谭等虽与臣至亲，行皆奢僣，无以率导百姓，不如御史大夫音谨敕，臣敢以死保之。
及凤且死，上疏谢上，复固荐音自代，言谭等五人必不可用。
天子然之。
初，谭倨，不肯事凤，而音敬凤，卑恭如子，故荐之。
translation: 
The five younger brothers who were granted the title of marquis, competed to spend extravagantly, bribed and gave away treasures in an endless stream. Each family had dozens of concubines in the back courtyard, and there were hundreds or even thousands of slaves. They rang bells and chimes, beautiful women danced, watched acrobatics, and sensual dogs and horses;
The common people sang songs for them and said: When the five princes first became prosperous, Quyanghou was the strongest. He destroyed Gaodu and built a palace, and then spread to the Waidu area. The earth and mountains gradually became taller, like the emperor's White Tiger Palace.
They are so extravagant and arrogant.
But these people are well versed in the ways of the world, like to cultivate wise men, and spend all their money in this area to show that they are not vulgar.
Wang Feng assisted the government for a total of eleven years.
In the autumn of the third year of Yangshuo, Wang Feng was seriously ill. Emperor Cheng personally visited his home many times. He held his hand and cried and said: The general is seriously ill. If he fails, let Ping'ahou Wang Tan take his place.
Wang Feng kowtowed and said with tears: Although Wang Tan and others are my closest relatives, they advocate extravagance and cannot set an example for the people of the world. They are not as cautious as Wang Yin, the imperial censor. I am willing to die to recommend them.
When Wang Feng died, Shangshu thanked the emperor, but insisted on recommending Wang Yin to replace him, saying that Wang Tan and other five people must not be reused.
Emperor Cheng agreed.
At first, Wang Tan was arrogant and refused to serve Wang Feng, but Wang Yin respected Wang Feng and was as humble as a son to his father, so Wang Feng recommended him.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
凤薨，天子临吊赠宠，送以轻车介士，军陈自长安至渭陵，谥曰敬成侯。
子襄嗣侯，为卫尉。
御史大夫音竟代凤为大司马车骑将军，而平阿侯谭位特进，领城门兵。
谷永说谭，令让不受城门职，由是与音不平，语在《永传》。
音既以从舅越亲用事，小心亲职，岁余，上下诏曰： 车骑将军音宿卫忠正，勤劳国家，前为御史大夫，以外亲宜典兵马，入为将军，不获宰相之封，朕甚慊焉！
其封音为安阳侯，食邑与五侯等，俱三千户。
初，成都侯商尝病，欲避暑，从上借明光宫，后又穿长安城，引内澧水注第中大陂以行船，立羽盖，张周帷，辑濯越歌。
上幸商第，见穿城引水，意恨，内衔之，未言。
后微行出，过曲阳侯第，又见园中土山渐台似类白虎殿。
于是上怒，以让车骑将军音。
translation: 
After Wang Feng's death, Emperor Cheng went to pay his respects in person and presented it to the Wang family as a light chariot and warrior. During the funeral, soldiers lined up from Chang'an to Weiling, and Mi was given the title of Marquis Jingcheng.
Wang Feng's son Wang Xiang inherited the title of Marquis and served as a Weiwei.
Wang Yin, the imperial censor, finally replaced Wang Feng as the Great Sima Cavalry General, and Ping'ahou Wang Tan was given the special rank to command the troops defending the city.
Gu Yong persuaded Wang Tan not to accept the position of guarding the city gate, and he became dissatisfied with Wang Yin from then on. This incident is recorded in "Gu Yong's Biography".
As a cousin, Wang Yin took charge of political affairs beyond his close relatives. He was cautious and managed the political affairs himself. More than a year later, Emperor Cheng went to Shao and said: General Wang Yin of Chariots and Cavalry is serving in the palace. He is loyal and pure, and works hard for state affairs. He was originally a censor. As a foreign relative, he should be in charge of the army. He also became a general. I am very sorry that he did not get the reward from the prime minister!
Wang Yin was granted the title of Marquis of Anyang, and the enfeoffment was the same as that of the Five Marquises, with a total of 3,000 households.
At first, Prince Shang, the Marquis of Chengdu, fell ill and wanted to escape the summer heat, so he asked the emperor to borrow the Mingguang Palace. Later, he passed through the capital Chang'an, led the Lishui River into the big pond at home for boating, erected umbrellas decorated with green feathers, set up curtains, and asked the boatmen to sing Yue songs.
Emperor Cheng visited Wang Shang's residence and saw him passing through Chang'an City to divert water. He was very angry, but he was jealous and did not speak out.
Later, when I was traveling incognito, I passed by Quyanghou's house and saw that the earth-mountain terrace in the garden was similar to the White Tiger Palace.
The emperor was furious and blamed the chariot general Wang Yin.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
商、根兄弟欲自黥、劓谢太后。
上闻之大怒，乃使尚书责问司隶校尉、京兆尹： 知成都侯商擅穿帝城，决引澧水，曲阳侯根骄奢僣上，赤墀青琐，红阳侯立父子臧匿奸猾亡命，宾客为群盗，司隶、京兆皆阿纵不举奏正法。
二人顿首省户下。
又赐车骑将军音策书曰： 外家何甘乐祸败，而欲自黥、劓，相戮辱于太后前，伤慈母之心，以危乱国！
外家宗族强，上一身寝弱日久，今将一施之。
君其召诸侯，令待府舍。
是日，诏尚书奏文帝时诛将军薄昭故事。
车骑将军音藉槁请罪，商、立、根皆负斧质谢。
上不忍诛，然后得已。
久之，平阿侯谭薨，谥曰安侯，子仁嗣侯。
translation: 
Brothers Wang Shang and Wang Gen planned to tattoo their faces and cut off their noses to apologize to the Queen Mother.
Emperor Cheng became even more angry after hearing this, and sent his minister to question Sili Xiaowei and Jing Zhaoyin. Knowing full well that the Marquis of Chengdu, Wang Shang, crossed the capital without authorization and introduced Lishui River, the Marquis of Quyang was arrogant and extravagant, and the expenses of the mansion were arrogant to the emperor. The stone steps were painted red, and the doors were engraved with cyan patterns.
The two kowtowed and went home to reflect.
He also gave a document to General Wang Yin of Chariots and Cavalry, saying: There is no one in the family who is willing to be defeated, but he wants to be tattooed and tortured himself, and to suffer this humiliation in front of the Queen Mother, hurting the heart of a loving mother, and causing trouble to the country!
The cousin's family is powerful, but the emperor's power has been getting weaker and weaker for a long time, and now he wants to use punishment.
You gather those princes together and wait for Shao's fate at your house.
On this day, Shao ordered Shangshu to report the old story of the execution of General Bo Zhao during the reign of Emperor Wen.
The chariot general Wang Yin sat on a straw mat and begged for punishment. Wang Shang, Wang Li, and Wang Gen all came carrying axes and begged for punishment.
Emperor Cheng couldn't bear to kill them, so he gave up.
After some time, Ping'ahou Wang Tan died, Mi was named Anhou, and his son Wang Ren inherited the title.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
太后怜弟曼蚤死，独不封，曼寡妇渠供养东宫，子莽幼孤不及等比，常以为语。
平阿侯谭、成都侯商及在位多称莽者。
久之，上复下诏追封曼为新都哀侯，而子莽嗣爵为新都侯。
后又封太后姊子淳天长为定陵侯。
王氏亲属，侯者凡十人。
上悔废平阿侯谭不辅政而薨也，乃复进成都侯商以特进，领城门兵，置幕府，得举吏如将军。
杜邺说车骑将军音令亲附商，语在《邺传》。
王氏爵位日盛，唯音为修整，数谏正，有忠节，辅政八年，薨。
吊赠如大将军，谥曰敬侯。
子舜嗣侯，为太仆侍中。
特进成都侯商代音为大司马卫将军，而红阳侯立位特进，领城门兵。
translation: 
The Queen Mother felt sorry that her younger brother Wang Man had died early and was not able to become a marquis. Wang Man's widowed wife Qu also served her. Her son Wang Mang lost his father when he was young and could not be compared with others, so she often mentioned him in front of Emperor Cheng.
Prince Tan of Ping'a, Prince Shang of Chengdu and some officials all praised Wang Mang.
Later, Emperor Cheng issued an edict to postulate Wang Man as the Marquis of Ai of Xindu, and his son Wang Mang inherited the title as Marquis of Xindu.
Later, Chunyu Chang, the son of the Queen Mother's sister, was granted the title of Marquis of Dingling.
Among the relatives of the Wang family, there are a total of ten people who have been granted the title of marquis.
Emperor Cheng regretted that he had dismissed Ping'a Hou Wang Tan and died without being able to assist the government, so he gave the title of Chengdu Hou Wang Shang Tejin, allowing him to command the troops defending the city, set up a shogunate, and recommend officials like a general.
Du Ye persuaded the cavalry general Wang Yin to get close to Wang Shang. This incident was recorded in the "Biography of Du Ye".
The Wang family's official ranks were getting higher and higher, but Wang Yin was the only one who paid attention to the law, spoke out and persuaded many times, and had the character of a loyal minister. He assisted in political affairs for eight years and passed away.
Emperor Cheng personally went to pay his respects as he did to Wang Feng, presented him with honors and favors, and gave him the title of Jinghou.
Wang Yin's son Wang Shun succeeded to the throne and became the imperial servant.
Te Jin, the Marquis of Chengdu, Wang Shang, replaced Wang Yin as General Sima Wei, and gave Hong Yang Hou Wang the position of Te Jin, allowing him to command the troops defending the city.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
商辅政四岁，病乞骸骨，天子悯之，更以为大将军，益封二千户，赐钱百万。
商薨，吊赠如大将军故事，谥曰景成侯，子况嗣侯。
红阳侯立次当辅政，有罪过，语在《孙宝传》。
上乃废立，而用光禄勋曲阳侯根为大司马票骑将军，岁余益封千七百户。
高平侯逢时无材能名称，是岁薨，谥曰戴侯，子买之嗣侯。
绥和元年，上即位二十余年无继嗣，而定陶共王已薨，子嗣立为王。
王祖母定陶傅太后重赂遗票骑将军根，为王求汉嗣，根为言，上亦欲立之，遂征定陶王为太子。
时根辅政五岁矣，乞骸骨，上乃益封根五千户，赐安车驷马，黄金五百斤，罢就第。
先是，定陵侯淳于长以外属能谋议，为卫尉侍中，在辅政之次。
是岁，新都侯莽告长伏罪与红阳侯立相连，长下狱死，立就国，语在《长传》。
故曲阳侯根荐莽以自代，上亦以为莽有忠直节，遂擢莽从侍中骑都尉光禄大夫为大司马。
岁余，成帝崩，哀帝即位。
translation: 
Wang Shang assisted the government for four years when he became seriously ill and asked to resign. Emperor Cheng took pity on him and made him a general. He also rewarded 2,000 households and 1 million yuan.
When Wang Shang passed away, Emperor Cheng personally paid his respects according to the old system of generals and bestowed him with honors and favors. Mi was given the title Marquis of Jingcheng. Wang Shang's son Wang Kuang succeeded him as Marquis.
The Marquis of Hongyang should have joined the court to assist the government in order, but he committed a crime and gave up. This incident is recorded in "Sun Baozhuan".
Emperor Cheng gave up Wang Li and appointed Guangluxun Quyanghou Wanggen as the Grand Sima Hussar General. More than a year later, 1,700 households were added as fiefs.
The Marquis of Gaoping had neither talent nor fame. He died that year and was given the title of Marquis of Dai. His son Wang Maizhi succeeded him as Marquis of Dai.
In the first year of Suihe, Emperor Cheng had ascended the throne for more than 20 years and still had no heirs. King Dingtao Gong had died and his son succeeded to the throne.
Queen Dingtao, the grandmother of King Dingtao, bribed General Wang Gen with generous gifts in the hope of making King Dingtao the prince. Wang Gen spoke on her behalf. Emperor Cheng also planned to make King Dingtao the prince, so he summoned him to the capital to be crowned prince.
At this time, Wang Gen had been assisting the government for five years. He asked to resign and return to his hometown. Emperor Cheng added 5,000 households to Wang Gen's fiefdom, rewarded him with a carriage, four horses, and five hundred catties of gold. He dismissed his official position and returned to his mansion.
Previously, Chun Yuchang, the Marquis of Dingling, was able to make suggestions as a relative and served as a guard official, assisting in government affairs.
In this year, Wang Mang, the Marquis of Xindu, reported Chun Yuchang's past crimes and had colluded with Hongyang Marquis Wang Li. Chun Yuchang was imprisoned and died, and Wang Li returned to his fiefdom. This incident was recorded in "The Biography of Chunyu Chang".
Therefore, Wang Gen, the Marquis of Quyang, recommended Wang Mang to replace him. Emperor Cheng also believed that Wang Mang was loyal and upright, so he promoted Wang Mang from the position of Guanglu Guanglu to the rank of Chief Sima.
More than a year later, Emperor Cheng died and Emperor Ai ascended the throne.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
太后诏莽就第，避帝外家。
哀帝初优莽，不听。
莽上书固乞骸骨而退。
上乃下诏曰： 曲阳侯根前在位，建社稷策。
侍中太仆安阳侯舜往时护太子家，导朕，忠诚专一，有旧恩。
新都侯莽忧劳国家，执义坚固，庶几与为治，太皇太后诏休就第，朕甚闵焉。
其益封根二千户，舜五百户，莽三百五十户。
以莽为特进，朝朔望。
又还红阳侯立京师。
哀帝少而闻知五氏骄盛，心不能善，以初立，故优之。
内怀奸邪，欲管朝政，推亲近吏主簿张业以为尚书，蔽上壅下，内塞王路，外交藩臣，骄奢僣上，坏乱制度，案根骨肉至亲，社稷大臣，先帝弃天下，根不悲哀思慕，山陵未成，公聘取故掖庭女乐五官殷严、王飞君等，置酒歌舞，捐忘先帝厚恩，背臣子义。
及根兄子成都侯况幸得以外亲继父为列侯侍中，不思报厚恩，亦聘取故掖庭贵人以为妻，皆无人臣礼，大不敬不道。
于是天子曰： 先帝遇根、况父子，至厚也，今乃背忘恩义！
以根尝建社稷之策，遣就国。
免况为庶人，归故郡。
根及况父商所荐举为官者，皆罢。
translation: 
The Queen Mother issued an edict asking Wang Mang to resign and go home, but she avoided the matter because he was a relative of the emperor.
Emperor Ai began to treat Wang Mang preferentially but refused to agree.
Wang Mang wrote a letter insisting on resigning.
Emperor Ai came to Xia Shao and said: During his tenure, Wang Gen, Marquis of Quyang, had some strategies to govern the country and secure it.
Anyanghou Wang Shun, the servant in charge of the imperial court, went to take care of the prince's family and enlightened me. I am loyal and have no second heart, but have old kindness.
Wang Mang, the Marquis of Xindu, has worked hard for state affairs and upheld justice, and he hopes to assist me in governing the country. I am very sorry that the Empress Dowager has sent him to retire and go home.
Two thousand households of Wang Gen were granted fiefs, five hundred households of Wang Shun, and three hundred and fifty households of Wang Mang.
Wang Mang was given the position of special advancement, and Wang Mang entered the palace to see him on the first day of the lunar month.
He also asked Wang Li, the Marquis of Hongyang, to return to the capital.
Emperor Ai was very young, but he was unhappy when he heard that the Wang family was arrogant and prosperous. Because he had just ascended the throne, he gave them preferential treatment.
A month later, Lieutenant of Sili Jieguang reported: The family of Quyanghou Wanggen is powerful and distinguished. Three generations have been in power, five generals have controlled political affairs, and the people of the world have a tendency to flatter and please. Wang Gen was greedy and evil, amassed a lot of money, and acted recklessly. He overhauled the palace, built a rockery in the palace, and set up two markets. The steps in front of the palace were painted red, and the doors were engraved with cyan patterns. When he went hunting, he ordered his servants to wear bell armor, hold bows and arrows, and line up like infantry; Wang Gen was evil in his heart and planned to control the government. He elected Zhang Ye, a close official, to serve as minister, deceived the emperor, blocked the opinions of his ministers, blocked the way to achieve the king's career internally, made friends with princes and kings externally, was arrogant and extravagant, and exceeded his status. Destroy the system. Wang Gen was a close relative of the late emperor and an important minister of the country. After the late emperor's death, Wang Gen did not feel sad and missed the late emperor. Before the late emperor's mausoleum was built, he openly married the former Yeting kabuki performer Wang Feijun and others. They held banquets and indulged in singing and dancing, abandoning the late emperor's deep kindness to him and violating the etiquette and justice that a minister should abide by.
Wang Gen's brother's son, the Marquis of Chengdu, Wang Kuang, was fortunate enough to succeed his father as a foreign relative and become the minister of the princes. However, he did not miss repaying the profound favor of the emperor, and also married a nobleman from Yuanting.
Therefore Emperor Ai said: The late emperor treated Wang Gen and Wang Kuang and his son with great kindness, but now they have betrayed their kindness!
Because Wang Gen once helped Emperor Ai become the prince and let him return to the fiefdom.
Wang Kuang was dismissed from his official position and became a commoner, and returned to his hometown.
Those whom Wang Gen and Wang Kuang's father Wang Shang recommended to serve as officials were all dismissed.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
后二岁，傅太后、帝母丁姬皆称尊号。
有司奏： 新都侯莽前为大司马，贬抑尊号之议，亏损孝道，及平阿侯仁臧匿赵昭仪亲属，皆就国。
天下多冤王氏。
谏大夫杨宣上封事言： 孝成皇帝深惟宗庙之重，称述陛下至德以承天序，圣策深远，恩德至厚。
惟念先帝之意，岂不欲以陛下自代，奉承东宫哉！
太皇太后春秋七十，数更忧伤，敕令亲属引领以避丁、傅。
行道之人为之陨涕，况于陛下，时登高远望，独不渐于延陵乎！
哀帝深感其言，复封商中子邑为成都侯。
元寿元年，日蚀。
贤良对策多讼新都侯莽者，上于是征莽及平阿侯仁还京师侍太后。
曲阳侯根薨，国除。
translation: 
Two years later, Empress Dowager Fu and Emperor Ai's mother Ding Ji were honored as Empress Dowager Tai and Empress Dowager respectively.
A minister reported that: Wang Mang, the Marquis of Xindu, who had previously been the Grand Sima, suppressed the proposal of adding a title, which was detrimental to filial piety, and Wang Ren, the Marquis of Ping'a, was harboring relatives of Tsang Zhaoyi. Both of them should be moved back to their fiefdoms.
Many people in the world feel wronged for Wang.
Yang Xuan, the remonstrating official, wrote a secret letter saying: Emperor Xiaocheng took into account the country's great plans, praised your majesty's noble morals and allowed your majesty to inherit the throne. The late emperor's strategy was far-reaching and his kindness was extremely generous.
Thinking of the late Emperor's wishes, didn't he want His Majesty to take his place and provide for the Queen Mother?
The Empress Dowager was seventy years old and had experienced sad changes many times. She ordered her relatives to retreat on their own to avoid the Ding and Fu families.
Everyone who travels will shed tears for this, not to mention His Majesty, if you climb high and look far away, wouldn't you be worthy of the late emperor of Yanling!
Aihu was deeply moved by his words, and made Wang Shang's second son Wang Yi the Marquis of Shengdu.
In the first year of Yuanshou, a solar eclipse occurred.
When the wise and kind-hearted ministers and Confucian scholars stated their political opinions in response to the imperial edict, most of them complained about the new capital, Wang Mang, so Emperor Ai summoned Wang Mang and Ping Ahou Wang Ren to return to the capital to serve the Queen Mother.
Wang Gen, Marquis of Quyang, died and the feudal state was abolished.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
明年，哀帝崩，无子，太皇太后以莽为大司马，与共征立中山王奉哀帝后，是为平帝。
帝年九岁，当年被疾，太后临朝，委政于莽，莽颛威福。
红阳侯立莽诸父，平阿侯仁素刚直，莽内惮之，令大臣以罪过奏遣立、仁就国。
莽日诳耀太后，言辅政致太平，群臣奏请尊莽为安汉公。
后遂遣使者迫守立、仁令自杀。赐立谥曰荒侯，子柱嗣，仁谥曰刺侯，子术嗣。
是岁，元始三年也。
明年，莽风群臣奏立莽女为皇后。
又奏尊莽为宰衡，莽母及两太子皆封为列侯，语在《莽传》。
莽既外一群臣，令称已功德，又内媚事旁侧长御以下，赂遗以千万数。
白尊太后姊妹君侠为广恩君，君力为广惠君，君弟为广施君，皆食汤沐邑，日夜共誉莽。
translation: 
In the second year, Emperor Ai died without a son. The Empress Dowager appointed Wang Mang as the Grand Sima, and together with him, he summoned King Zhongshan as Emperor Ai, who became Emperor Ping.
Emperor Ping was only nine years old and fell ill that year, so the Queen Mother came to the court to handle the affairs and entrusted the affairs of the court to Wang Mang.
Wang Li, the Marquis of Hongyang, was Wang Mang's uncle, and Wang Ren, the Marquis of Ping'a, had always been upright. Wang Mang was wary of them, so he ordered his ministers to fabricate charges and petition to have Wang Li and Wang Ren return to their fiefdoms.
Wang Mang deceived the Queen Mother all day long, saying that he was assisting the government to bring peace to the world. The ministers submitted a petition requesting that Wang Mang be honored as Duke Anhan.
Later, Wang Mang sent envoys to force Wang Li and Wang Ren to commit suicide. Wang Limi was given the title of Huanghou, and his son Wang Zhu succeeded him. Wang Renmi was given the title of Rahou, and his son Wang Shu succeeded to the title.
One year was created, which was the third year of Yuanshi.
The next year, Wang Mang hinted to the ministers to ask for his daughter to be appointed queen.
He also requested that Wang Mang be made Prime Minister, and Wang Mang's mother and two sons were named marquises. These events are recorded in the "Biography of Wang Mang".
Externally, Wang Mang controlled the words and deeds of ministers, asking them to praise his merits. Internally, he flattered the Queen Mother's attendants below the imperial level, bribing them with tens of thousands of dollars.
She also reported to the Queen Mother that her sisters Jun Xia should be named Guangenjun, Junli should be named Guanghuijun, and Jun's younger brother should be named Guangshijun. They were all rewarded with food. They praised Wang Mang together in front of the Queen Mother all day long.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
莽又知太后妇人厌居深宫中，莽欲虞乐以市其权，乃令太后四时车驾巡狩四郊，存见孤寡贞妇。
春幸茧馆，率皇后、列侯夫人桑，遵霸水而祓除；夏游御宿、鄠、杜之间；秋历东馆，望昆明，集黄山宫；冬飨饮飞羽，校猎上兰，登长平馆，临泾水而览焉。
太后所至属县，辄施恩惠，赐民钱、帛、牛、酒，岁以为常。
太后从容言曰： 我始入太子家时，见于丙殿，至今五六十岁尚颇识之。
莽因曰： 太子宫幸近，可一往游观，不足以为劳。
于是太后幸太子宫，甚说。
太后旁弄儿病在外舍，莽自亲侯之。
其欲得太后意如此。
平帝崩，无子，莽征宣帝玄孙选最少者广戚侯子刘婴，年二岁，托以卜相为最吉。
translation: 
Wang Mang also knew that the Queen Mother, as a woman, hated the life of living in the palace for a long time, so he planned to entertain the Queen Mother in exchange for greater power. He asked the Queen Mother to travel around the suburbs of the capital in four seasons to greet orphans, widows and chaste women.
In the spring, they visited the Cocoon Pavilion and led the queen and the wives of the princes to plant mulberry trees and pray for blessings and eliminate disasters by the Ba River; in the summer, they played between Sunsu, E, and Du; in the autumn, they visited Shu Pavilion, looked at Kunming from afar, and gathered at the Huangshan Palace; in the winter, they held banquets and drinks in the Feiyu Pavilion, hunted in Shanglan, climbed to the Changping Pavilion, and visited the scenery along the Jingshui River.
Whenever the Queen Mother passed through a county, she would show great kindness to the people and reward the people with money, silk, cattle and wine. This gradually formed a habit.
The Queen Mother said with a gentle face: When I first entered the Prince's house, I was summoned in the Bing Hall. It has been fifty or sixty years now, and I can still remember the scene at that time.
Wang Mang said, "The prince's palace is nearby. You can go there for fun without any trouble."
Therefore, the Queen Mother visited the Prince's palace and was very happy.
Nong'er, who was beside the Queen Mother, fell ill and lived in a foreign house. Wang Mang went to greet him personally.
Wang Mang went so far as to cater to the Queen Mother's wishes.
Emperor Ping died without heirs, so Wang Mang summoned Liu Ying, the youngest great-great-grandson of Emperor Xuan and the son of Marquis Guangqi, who was only two years old, on the pretext that he would divine the most auspicious divination.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
乃风公卿奏请立婴为孺子，令宰衡安汉公莽践祚居摄，如周公傅成王故事。
太后不以为可，力不能禁，于是莽遂为摄皇帝，改元称制焉。
俄而宗室安众侯刘崇及东郡太守翟义等恶之，更举兵欲诛莽。
太后闻之，曰： 人心不相远也。
我虽妇人，亦知莽必以是自危，不可。
其后，莽遂以符命自立为真皇帝，先奉诸符瑞以白太后，太后大惊。
初，汉高祖入咸阳至霸上，秦王子婴降于轵道，奉上始皇玺。
及高祖诛项籍，即天子位，因御服其玺，世世传受，号曰汉传国玺，以孺子未立，玺臧长乐宫。
及莽即位，请玺，太后不肯授莽。
莽使安阳侯舜谕指。
舜素谨敕，太后雅爱信之。
舜既见，太后知其为莽求玺，怒骂之曰： 而属父子宗族蒙汉家力，富贵累世，既无以报，受人孤寄，乘便利时，夺取其国，不复顾恩义。
translation: 
It suggested that the ministers petitioned to establish Liu Ying as a son, and let the Prime Minister Anhan Duke Mang temporarily occupy the position of emperor and handle political affairs, just like the story of Zhou Gong assisting the king.
The Queen Mother believed that this was not allowed, but she could not stop it with her own strength, so Wang Mang became the regent, changed the reign name, and exercised the power of the emperor.
Not long after, Liu Chong, the Marquis of Anzhong of the clan, Zhai Yi, the prefect of Shujun, and others were disgusted with Wang Mang and raised troops one after another to kill him.
When the Queen Mother heard the news, she said: People think the same thing.
Even though I am a woman, I also know that Wang Mang will definitely be worried about his own safety and cannot do this.
Later, Wang Mang used the talisman to establish himself as the true emperor, and first presented those auspicious signs to the Queen Mother, who was shocked.
At the beginning, when Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty entered Xianyang and reached Bashang, Prince Qin Ying surrendered at Zhidao Pavilion and presented Qin Shihuang's national seal.
When the great ancestor executed Xiang Ji and ascended the throne as the emperor, he personally wore this national seal and passed it down from generation to generation, known as the Mochuan national seal. Because Ruzi had not yet ascended the throne, the imperial seal was kept in Changle Palace.
When Wang Mang came to the throne, he wanted to pass on the national seal, but the Queen Mother refused to give it to him.
Wang Mang instructed Anyang Marquis Wang Shun to convey his intention to the Queen Mother.
Wang Shun has always been cautious and thoughtful, and the Queen Mother usually likes to trust him.
Wang Shun paid a visit to the Queen Mother. The Queen Mother knew that he was here to ask for the imperial seal for Wang Mang, so she angrily scolded him and said: Your father and son families have been favored by the Han family and have been rich and powerful for generations. Not only did you not repay the favor, you accepted the task of entrusting the orphans, but you took the opportunity to seize other people's countries. You no longer care about your kindness.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
人如此者，狗猪不食其余，天下岂有而兄弟邪！
且若自以金匮符命为新皇帝，变更正朔服制，亦当自更作玺，传之万世，何用此亡国不详玺为，而欲求之？
我汉家老寡妇，旦暮且死，欲与此玺俱葬，终不可得！
太后因涕泣而言，旁侧长御以下皆垂涕。
舜亦悲不能自止，良久乃仰谓太后： 臣等已无可言者。
莽必欲得传国玺，太后宁能终不与邪！
太后闻舜语切，恐莽欲胁之，乃出汉传国玺，投之地以授舜，曰： 我老已死，如而兄弟，今族灭也！
舜既得传国玺，奏之，莽大说，乃为太后置酒未央宫渐台，大纵众乐。
莽又欲改太后汉家旧号，易其玺绶，恐不见听，而莽疏属王谏欲谄莽，上书言： 皇天废去汉而命立新室，太皇太后不宜称尊号，当随汉废，以奉天命 。
莽乃车驾至东宫，亲以其书白太后。
太后曰： 此言是也！
translation: 
People like this are worse than pigs and dogs. How can there be brothers like you in the world!
Besides, I used the Golden Chamber Talisman to become the new emperor and changed the calendar and the system of clothing, carriages and horses, so I should make my own national seal and pass it on to all generations. Why do I need to come here to get the national seal that is unlucky for the country to perish?
I am an old widow of the Han family. I am about to die. I want to be buried with this Fang Chuanguo Seal, but you will not be able to get it in the end!
The Queen Mother cried while speaking, and all the waiters below the chief minister beside her shed tears.
Wang Shun couldn't restrain his sadness. After a long time, he raised his head and said to the Queen Mother: We people have nothing to say.
Wang Mang must get the imperial seal, can the Queen Mother never give it to him?
When the Queen Mother heard Wang Shun's sincere words, she was afraid that Wang Mang would threaten her, so she took out the imperial seal and threw it on the ground to Wang Shun, saying: I am old and dying, and if you brothers behave like this, the Wang family will be exterminated!
Wang Shun got the imperial seal and presented it to Wang Mang. Wang Mang was so happy that he held a banquet for the Empress Dowager at the terrace of Weiyang Palace and had fun.
Wang Mang also wanted to change the Queen Mother's Han Dynasty title and her seal, but he was afraid that she would not agree. Wang Mang's distant cousin, Wang Jian, wanted to flatter Wang Mang and wrote a letter saying: God abolished the Han Dynasty and established a new house. The Empress Dowager can no longer have the honorary title and should be abolished along with the Han Dynasty to comply with the destiny of heaven.
Wang Mang took a carriage and horse to the East Palace and personally reported the contents of the memorial to the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother said: This is right!


Chunk 22: 
original: 
莽因曰： 此悖德之臣也，罪当诛！
于是冠军张永献符命铜璧，文言 太皇太后当为新室文母太皇太后。
莽乃下诏曰： 予视群公，咸曰 休哉！
其文字非刻非画，厥性自然 。予伏念皇天命予为子，更命太皇太后为 新室文母太皇太后 ，协于新、故交代之际，信于汉氏。
哀帝之代，世传行诏筹，为西王母共具之祥，当为历代母，昭然著明。
于祗畏天命，敢不钦承！
谨以令月吉日，亲率群公诸侯卿士，奉上皇太后玺绂，以当顺天心，光于四海焉。
太后听许。
莽于是鸩杀王谏，而封张永为贡符子。
初，莽为安汉公时，又谄太后，奏尊元帝庙为高宗，太后晏驾后当以礼配食云。
及莽改号太后为新室文母，绝之于汉，不令得体元帝。
translation: 
Wang Mang said: This is an immoral minister, and the crime he committed should be punished with death!
Therefore, the champion Zhang Yong presented a bronze biscuit engraved with fortune-telling. The text on it was "The Empress Dowager shall be the new wife's mother, the Empress Dowager."
Wang Mang then issued an edict: "I showed it to all the ministers, and they all said it's so beautiful!"
The words above were not carved or painted, they were created by nature. I thought that God had appointed me as the emperor by destiny, and also appointed the empress dowager as the new empress dowager. This was consistent with the alternation of the old and new dynasties, and did not treat the Mo family unfairly.
During the reign of Emperor Ai, it was popular among the people to pass on plans and offer wine and food to the Queen Mother of the West. This was a sign that the Queen Mother should become the mother of the country in the change of dynasty.
I obey the destiny, how dare I disobey!
He deliberately chose an auspicious month and period, personally led the ministers, and presented the empress dowager's seal and ribbon to respond to God's will and make it known to the world.
The Queen Mother accepted Wang Mang's suggestion.
Wang Mang killed Wang Jian with poisoned wine and made Zhang Yong a tribute fuzi.
At the beginning, when Wang Mang was the Duke of Anhan, he flattered the Queen Mother and requested that the temple name of Emperor Yuan be Gaozong. After the death of the Queen Mother, he could be assigned to the Temple of Emperor Yuan according to etiquette.
When Wang Mang changed the title of the Queen Mother to Xinshi Wenmu, she severed her relationship with the Han Dynasty, not wanting her to be worthy of the Yuan Emperor.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
堕坏孝元庙，更为文母太后起庙，独置孝元庙故殿以为文母篹食堂，既成，名曰长寿宫。
以太后在，故未谓之庙。
莽以太后好出游观，乃车驾置酒长寿宫，请太后。
既至，见孝元庙废彻涂地，太后惊，泣曰： 此汉家宗庙，皆有神灵，与何治而坏之！
且使鬼神无知，又何用庙为！
如令有知，我乃人之妃妾，岂宜辱帝之堂以陈馈食哉！
私谓左右曰： 此人嫚神多矣，能久得晁乎！
饮酒不乐而罢。
自莽篡位后，知太后怨恨，求所以媚太后无不为，然愈不说。
莽更汉家黑貂，著黄貂，又改汉正朔伏腊日。
太后令其官属黑貂，至汉家正腊日，独与其左右相对饮酒食。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaoyuan's dormitory temple was destroyed and a new dormitory temple was built for Empress Dowager Wenmu. The original main hall of Xiaoyuan Temple was specially used as a place for Wenmu to hold banquets. After it was completed, it was named longevity palace.
Because the Queen Mother is still alive, it is not called a temple.
Because the Queen Mother liked to go out for sightseeing, Wang Mang held a banquet in the Longevity Palace and invited the Queen Mother there by car.
After the Queen Mother arrived, she was shocked to see the dilapidated Xiaoyuan Temple. She cried and said: This is the ancestral temple of the Han family. It is blessed by gods and has nothing to do with you. Why did you destroy it?
Besides, if ghosts and gods have no consciousness, why build a temple?
If the ghosts and gods knew it, how could I, as the late emperor's concubine, humiliate the late emperor's temple and display sacrifices for me!
He privately said to the waiters on his left and right: This man has repeatedly disrespected the gods. How can he be blessed for a long time?
This drinking session ended on bad terms.
Since Wang Mang usurped the throne, he knew that the Queen Mother was resentful, so he tried every means to flatter the Queen Mother. However, the Queen Mother became increasingly unhappy.
Wang Mang changed the system of wearing sable among the servants of the Mo family, so that all the servants wore yellow sable. He also changed the dates of Zhengshuo and Fula in the Han family.
The Queen Mother made her subordinates all wear sable. On New Year's Day and the twelfth lunar month of the Han Dynasty, she would sit and drink with the waiters around her to show that she did not forget the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
太后年八十四，建国五年二月癸丑崩。
三月乙酉，合葬渭陵。
莽诏大夫扬雄作诔曰： 太阴之精，沙麓之灵，作合于汉，配元生成。
著其协于元城沙麓。
太阴精者，谓梦月也。
太后崩后十年，汉兵诛莽。
初，红阳侯立就国南阳，与诸刘结恩，立少子丹为中山太守。
世祖初起，丹降，为将军，战死。
上闵之，封丹子泓为武桓侯，至今。
司徒掾班彪曰：三代以来，《春秋》所记，王公国君，与其失世，稀不以女宠。
汉兴，后妃之家吕、霍、上官，几危国者数矣。
及王莽之兴，由孝元后历汉四世为天下母，飨国六十余载，群弟世权，更持国柄，五将十侯，卒成新都。
位号已移于天下，而元后卷卷犹握一玺，不欲以授莽，妇人之仁，悲夫！
translation: 
When the Queen Mother was eighty-four years old, in February of the fifth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Guichou died.
In March Yiyou, he was buried in Weiling together with Emperor Yuan.
Wang Mang issued an edict and asked the doctor Yang Xiong to write a sacrificial text, saying: The essence of Taiyin, the spirit of Shalu, the sky unites with Han, and the matching element is generated.
It shows that she is in harmony with Shalu of Yuancheng.
The essence of Taiyin means that the Queen Mother was born from a dream of the moon.
Ten years after the death of the Queen Mother, Han soldiers killed Wang Mang.
At the beginning, Wang Li, the Marquis of Hongyang, returned to his fiefdom of Nanyang and formed a relationship with the Liu family's children. Wang Li's youngest son, Wang Dan, became the prefect of Zhongshan.
When Emperor Guangwu of Shizu just raised an army, Wang Dan surrendered and he became a general and died in battle.
Shizu took great pity on him and named his son Wang Hong the Marquis of Wuhuan. This title has been passed down to this day.
Situ Peng Ban Biao said: Since the Three Dynasties, the reasons for the demise of princes and monarchs recorded in the "Spring and Autumn" have rarely been caused by favored women.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, the concubines' families, the Lu family, the Huo family, and the Shangguan family, nearly endangered the country several times.
The rise of Wang Mang was due to the fact that after Xiaoyuan, there were four generations of emperors in the Han Dynasty. Her mother respected the world. She reigned for more than sixty years. Her younger brothers came to power one after another and controlled the government. They granted a total of five generals and ten princes. Finally, Wang Mang, the new prince of the capital, realized his ambition.
The dynasties have changed, but the Queen of the Yuan Dynasty is still loyal and holds the imperial seal in her hand, and does not want to hand it over to Wang Mang. The kindness of a woman is really pitiful!


