Chunk 0: 
original: 
《易》曰： 亢之为言也，知进而不知退，知存而不知亡。
知进退存亡而不失其正者，其唯圣人乎！
《传》曰： 知足不辱，知止不殆。
然则不知夫进退，不达乎止足，殆辱之累，期月而至矣。
古人之进也，以康世济务也，以弘道厉俗也。
然其进也，光宠夷易，故愚夫之所干没；其退也，苦节艰贞，故庸曹之所忌惮。
虽祸败危亡，陈乎耳目，而轻举高蹈，寡乎前史。
汉世张良功成身退，病卧却粒，比于乐毅、范蠡至乎颠狈，斯为优矣。
其后薛广德及二疏等，去就以礼，有可称焉。
鱼豢《魏略·知足传》，方田、徐于管、胡，则其道本异。
谢灵运《晋书·止足传》，先论晋世文士之避乱者，殆非其人；唯阮思旷遗荣好遁，远殆辱矣。
《宋书·止足传》有羊欣、王微，咸其流亚。
齐时沛国刘献，字子珪，辞禄怀道，栖迟养志，不戚戚于贫贱，不耽耽于富贵，儒行之高者也。
梁有天下，小人道消，贤士大夫相招在位，其量力守志，则当世罔闻，时或有致事告老，或有寡志少欲，国史书之，亦以为《止足传》云。
顾宪之，字士思，吴郡吴人也。
祖抃之，宋镇军将军、湘州刺史。
宪之未弱冠，州辟议曹从事，举秀才，累迁太子舍人、尚书比部郎、抚军主簿。
元徽中，为建康令。
translation: 
"Yi" said: "Kang has regrets". The meaning of the word "Kang" means that he only knows how to advance in officialdom, but does not know how to retire; he only knows how to survive, but does not know how to die.
I am afraid that only a saint can understand the principles of advance and retreat and survive without losing track of the right path!
"The Biography" says: If you are content, you will not be humiliated; if you know how to stop, you will not be in danger.
According to this, if you don’t know how to advance or retreat, if you don’t understand the principle of knowing where to stop and be content, you will be humiliated, embarrassed, and in a dangerous situation, and you will soon be in a dangerous situation.
The advancement of the ancients was to help people govern the world, and the retreat of the ancients was to promote the right path and encourage folk customs.
However, people's advancement in officialdom is glorious and easy, so it is the goal that ignorant people strive to pursue; people's retirement requires adhering to integrity and persisting in hardships and dangers, so it is something that mediocre people are afraid of.
Although it is common for people to see and hear cases of people who seek to advance in officialdom encounter disaster or defeat, people who live in seclusion are rarely seen in previous history books.
Moji retired from the emperor after his success, and was lying in his sick home, practicing the method of immortality. This is better than wandering around after he succeeded in Luanqi and Jianlong.
Later, Zheng Guangde, Shuguang, Shushou and others retired according to the court's etiquette and left their jobs to live in their homes, which is also worthy of praise.
Yu Kun's "Wei Lue Zhizuo Zhuan" compared Tian and Xu with Guan and Hu. In fact, their principles of conduct were originally different.
Xie Lingyun's "Jin Shu Zhizu Zhuan" first comments on those Jin Dynasty literati who escaped from the turmoil. They probably did not belong to the Zhizu type of people; only Ruan Sikuang liked to escape from the world, abandoning glory and wealth, which was considered to be far away from the embarrassing and dangerous situation of humiliation. "Song Book."
In "The Legend of Zhizu" there are biographies of Cha Ao and Wang Miao, both of whom are similar characters to the previous ones.
During the Revolution, Zhou Suyou, also named Wangbi, refused to be an official, insisted on integrity, traveled in the mountains and forests, cultivated his ambition, did not feel sad and sorrowful in poverty, and did not pursue wealth and glory greedily. He was a noble person among Confucian scholars.
After Liang took over the world, the way of villains declined, and wise men and officials invited each other to gather in the court to measure their own strength and stick to their ambitions of retirement. Those who have not been heard of in the contemporary era. Occasionally, some people retired due to old age, and some had little ambition and weak desires. The history of the country recorded the deeds of these people and compiled it into the "Zhizu Zhuan".
Gu Xian's courtesy name was Shisi, and he was a native of Wu County, Wu County.
His grandfather Gu Qianzhi was the general of the town army and the governor of Xiangzhou during the Song Dynasty.
Before he reached the age of twenty, Gu Xianzhi was appointed by the state as a councilor, promoted scholars, and accumulated merits and was promoted to Prince Sheren, Shangshu Bibu Lang, and Fujun Chief.
During the Yuan Dynasty, Gu Xianzhi was appointed as the Jiankang Order.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
时有盗牛者，被主所认，盗者亦称己牛，二家辞证等，前后令莫能决。
宪之至，覆其状，谓二家曰： 无为多言，吾得之矣。
乃令解牛，任其所去，牛径还本主宅，盗者始伏其辜。
发奸擿伏，多如此类，时人号曰神明。
至于权要请托，长吏贪残，据法直绳，无所阿纵。
性又清俭，强力为政，甚得民和。故京师饮酒者得醇旨，辄号为 顾建康 ，言醑清且美焉。
迁车骑功曹、晋熙王友。
齐高帝执政，以为骠骑录事参军，迁太尉西曹掾。
齐台建，为中书侍郎。
齐高帝即位，除衡阳内史。
先是，郡境连岁疾疫，死者太半，棺木尤贵，悉裹以苇席，弃之路傍。
宪之下车，分告属县，求其亲党，悉令殡葬。
其家人绝灭者，宪之为出公禄，使纲纪营护之。
又土俗，山民有病，辄云先人为祸，皆开冢剖棺，水洗枯骨，名为除祟。
宪之晓喻，为陈生死之别，事不相由，风俗遂改。
时刺史王奂新至，唯衡阳独无讼者，乃叹曰： 顾衡阳之化至矣。
若九郡率然，吾将何事！
还为太尉从事中郎。
出为东中郎长史、行会稽郡事。
山阴人吕文度有宠于齐武帝，于余姚立邸，颇纵横。
宪之至郡，即表除之。
translation: 
At that time, someone was stealing cattle, and the stolen cattle were recognized by the owner of the cattle. The person who stole the cattle also said that the cattle were his own. The verbal evidence on both sides was similar. No one of the previous county magistrates could decide this case.
After Gu Xianzhi arrived, he reviewed the case materials and then said to both parties: "No need to say more, I have thought of a solution."
So Gu Xianzhi ordered his people to untie the rope from which the cow was tied and let the cow go wherever it wanted. The cow went straight back to its original owner's house, and the thief confessed his crime.
Gu Saizhu exposed the evildoers hidden in the dark. He was so smart and decisive in many such things that people at the time called him a god.
As for dealing with the private requests of dignitaries and dignitaries in the imperial court, he never flattered or obeyed. He never tolerated the corruption and cruelty of his officials, and he judged them all fairly and in accordance with the law.
Gu Xianzhi was honest and frugal by nature, and worked hard to handle political affairs, so he won the hearts of the people. Therefore, drinkers in the capital got mellow and delicious wine, and often called the wine "Gu Jiankang". This means that Gu Xian's purity, purity, harmony and beauty are like good wine.
Gu Xianzhi moved to the post of chariot and cavalry meritorious officer, and was a friend of King Xi of Jin Dynasty.
Emperor Qi Gao took charge of the imperial court and ordered Gu Xianzhi to join the army as a hussar and green officer, and to move to the post of Taiwei Xicao.
After the establishment of the Qi Wangtai Mansion, Gu Xianzhi was appointed as the Minister of Zhongshu.
When Emperor Gao of Qi ascended the throne, Gu Xianzhi was dismissed and appointed as the internal history of Hengyang.
Before Gu Xianzhi took office, there had been plagues in Hengyang for several years, and more than half of the people died of the disease. The price of coffins was extremely expensive, so the people all wrapped the dead in reeds and dumped them on the roadside.
As soon as Gu Xianzhi took office, he notified the counties under his jurisdiction to find the relatives of the dead and ordered them to bury the dead.
For those dead people who had no relatives, Gu Xianzhi took out his salary and ordered the chief clerk of the government to organize the burial.
According to the local folk custom in Hengyang, when people in the mountains are sick, they often say that the disaster was caused by their ancestors, so they dig graves, open coffins, and wash the bones of the dead with water. This is called "removing evil spirits".
Gu Xianzhi used principles to educate the people, explaining to them the difference between the living and the dead, and pointed out that diseases were not caused by the dead, and the local customs were therefore changed.
At that time, the governor Wang Huan had just taken office, and there was only one county in Hengyang where no one came to the governor's office to complain. So Wang Huan sighed and said: Gu Hengyang's education has reached a very good level.
Suppose all nine counties of this state are like this. So what else is wrong with me?
Gu Xianzhi returned to Beijing and served as Taiwei and Zhonglang.
He also left the capital and served as the chief historian of Shuzhong and engaged in the affairs of Kuaiji County.
Lu Wendu, a native of Shanyin, was favored by Emperor Wu of Qi, so he built a mansion in Yuyao and acted freely and unscrupulously in the area.
When Gu Xianzhi took office in Kuaiji County, he immediately went to court to demolish Lu Wendu's mansion.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
文度后还葬母，郡县争赴吊，宪之不与相闻。
文度深衔之，卒不能伤也。
迁南中郎巴陵王长史，加建威将军、行婺州事。
时司徒、竟陵王于宣城、临成、定陵三县界立屯，封山泽数百里，禁民樵采，宪之固陈不可，言甚切直。
王答之曰： 非君无以闻此德音。
即命无禁。
迁给事黄门侍郎，兼尚书吏部郎中。
宋世，其祖觊之尝为吏部，于庭植嘉树，谓人曰： 吾为宪之种耳。
至是，宪之果为此职。
出为征虏长史、行南兗州事，遭母忧。
服阕，建武中，复除给事黄门侍郎，领步兵校尉。未拜，仍迁太子中庶子，领吴邑中正。
出为宁朔将军、临川内史；未赴，改授辅国将军、晋陵太守。
顷之遇疾，陈解还乡里。
永元初，征为廷尉，不拜，除豫章太守。
有贞妇万晞者，少孀居无子，事舅姑尤孝，父母欲夺而嫁之，誓死不许，宪之赐以束帛，表其节义。
中兴二年，义师平建康，高祖为扬州牧，征宪之为别驾从事史。
比至，高祖已受禅，宪之风疾渐笃，固求还吴。
天监二年，就家授太中大夫。
宪之虽累经宰郡，资无担石。及归，环堵，不免饥寒。
八年，卒于家，年七十四。
临终为制，以敕其子曰：
夫出生入死，理均昼夜。
translation: 
Lu Wendu later went back to his hometown to bury his mother. Officials from counties and counties rushed to express their condolences, but Gu Xianzhi refused to associate with him.
Lu Wendu deeply hated Gu Xianzhi in his heart, but in the end he could not slander Gu Xianzhi.
Gu Xianzhi moved to Nanzhonglang and was appointed as the chief historian of Baling King. He also added General Wei to conduct affairs in southern Henan and southern Yanzhou.
At that time, King Situ Jingling established a military camp at the junction of Xuancheng, Lincheng and Dingling counties, demarcating Baili Mountain and marsh, and prohibiting people from entering to collect firewood. Gu Xianzhi resolutely stated that this could not be done, and his words were sincere and straightforward.
King Jingling answered him: If it weren't for you, I wouldn't be able to hear such sincere and kind words.
King Jingling immediately ordered the lifting of the ban.
Gu Xianzhi was moved to serve as the Minister of Huangmen and the doctor of the Ministry of Officials.
When he was still in the Song Dynasty, Gu Xianzhi's grandfather Gu Jianzhi served as the Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. When he was in office, he planted a row of orange trees in the courtyard of the government and said to people: I planted this tree for Xian.
By this time, Gu Xianzhi was indeed serving in the Ministry of Personnel.
Gu Xianzhi went to Beijing again to serve as the chief historian of the conquest, and went to Yanzhou in the south.
He left his job to mourn his mother's death. After the mourning period was over, during the Jianwu period, he was appointed as the minister of Huangmen and the captain of the infantry school. Before he could receive the ceremony, he was moved to the position of the prince's concubine and led the Zhongzheng of Wu Yi.
He left the capital and was appointed as General Ningshuo and Internal Secretary of Linchuan. Before he could take up his post, he was awarded the title of General of Auxiliary State and Prefect of Jinling.
Soon, Gu Xianzhi fell ill, and Chen Zuo fell ill, so he was dismissed and returned to his hometown.
In the early years of Yongyuan, Gu Xianzhi was recruited as a court official. He did not accept the post and was appointed as the internal history of Yuzhang.
There was a chaste woman named Wan Xi in Yuzhang. She lost her husband when she was young and became a widow with no children. She served her parents-in-law with great filial piety. However, her parents wanted to force her to change her ambition and remarry, but she refused to agree to her death. Gu Xianzhi gave Wan Xi five pieces of silk to commend her for her integrity.
In the second year of the Zhongxing Dynasty, the rebel army who attacked Qidong Hunhou pacified Jiankang. Emperor Gaozu was appointed as the shepherd of Yangzhou, and Gu Xianzhi was recruited to serve as a historian.
By the time Gu Xianzhi arrived in the capital, Gaozu had accepted Qi's concession and ascended the throne. Gu Xianzhi's condition gradually became serious due to a stroke, so he firmly requested to return to his hometown of Wuxian.
In the second year of Tianjian, the imperial court sent people to Gu Xian's home to confer him the title of Taizhong doctor.
Although Gu Xianzhi served as county magistrate many times, he did not even have any savings. When he returned to his hometown, his family was destitute, so he was inevitably suffering from hunger and cold.
In the eighth year of Tianjian, Gu Xianzhi died at home at the age of seventy-four.
When he was dying, Gu Xianzhi wrote in advance instructions on the funeral arrangements and warned his son:
From birth to death, Taoism changes like day and night.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
生既不知所从来，死亦安识所往。
延陵所云 精气上归于天，骨肉下归于地，魂气则无所不之 ，良有以也。
虽复茫昧难征，要若非妄。
百年之期，迅若驰隙。
吾今豫为终制，瞑目之后，念并遵行，勿违吾志也。
庄周、澹台，达生者也；王孙、士安，矫俗者也。
吾进不及达，退无所矫。
常谓中都之制，允理惬情。
衣周于身，示不违礼；棺周于衣，足以蔽臭。
入棺之物，一无所须。
载以輴车，覆以粗布，为使人勿恶也。
汉明帝天子之尊，犹祭以杅水脯糗；范史云烈士之高，亦奠以寒水干饭。
况吾卑庸之人，其可不节衷也？
丧易宁戚，自是亲亲之情；礼奢宁俭，差可得由吾意。
不须常施灵筵，可止设香灯，使致哀者有凭耳。
朔望祥忌，可权安小床，暂设几席，唯下素馔，勿用牲牢。
蒸尝之祠，贵贱罔替。
备物难办，多致疏怠。
祠先人自有旧典，不可有阙。
自吾以下，祠止用蔬食时果，勿同于上世也。
示令子孙，四时不忘其亲耳。
孔子云： 虽菜羹瓜祭，必齐如也。 本贵诚敬，岂求备物哉？
所著诗、赋、铭、赞并《衡阳郡记》数十篇。
陶季直，丹阳秣陵人也。
祖愍祖，宋广州刺史。
父景仁，中散大夫。
translation: 
Since we don’t know where life comes from, how can we know where we will go after death?
There is a reason why Yanling said that after a person dies, his essence rises and returns to heaven, his flesh and blood returns to the earth, and his soul can go anywhere.
Although this statement is difficult to understand and difficult to verify, it should not be false.
A person's life will pass quickly, like a fleeting moment.
I have written down the instructions for the funeral ceremony in advance. After I retire, I hope you will all follow my instructions and not go against my wishes.
Zhuang Zhou and Tantai Mieming were people who understood life well and were not bothered by worldly affairs; Yang Wangsun and Huangfu Shi'an were people who corrected the world's customs with their own actions.
If I advance, I cannot reach a state where I am not burdened by worldly affairs, and if I retreat, I will not be able to correct the world's customs.
I often say that the funeral rituals formulated by Confucius in Zhongdu are not only in line with natural principles, but also satisfy people's feelings of missing and respecting their relatives.
After death, clothes can wrap around the body to show that it does not violate etiquette; the coffin can hold the clothes of the corpse, enough to cover the stench.
Nothing else is needed to put in the coffin.
When buried, the coffin is transported in an oval cart and covered with coarse cloth so as not to offend people.
Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty was a noble emperor, and he also proposed that only a glass of water, dried meat, and food should be used as a memorial. Fan Shiwen, a well-known and ethical scholar, also left a message that only cold water and dry rice could be used as a memorial.
What's more, I'm just a humble and mediocre person, how can I not control my desires?
Rather than having thoughtful etiquette in funerals, I would rather feel sad in my heart, which is the deep feeling of missing my loved ones; rather than being extravagant and extravagant in etiquette, I would rather be simple and frugal, in order to suit my heart.
There is no need to hold a permanent memorial feast in front of the spirit. You can just light an oil lamp so that the mourners have something to rely on.
On the first and fifteenth day of the lunar month, the commemorative days of Daxiang and Xiaoxiang, or the anniversary of death, you can temporarily set up a small couch with a few tables and seats. You only need to buy a few vegetarian items, and do not use cattle, sheep, or pigs as memorials.
The sacrifice of smoke and taste to ancestors cannot be abandoned no matter how high or low they are.
It is difficult to prepare complete ritual utensils, which often leads to negligence.
The rituals for worshiping ancestors were previously stipulated and cannot be omitted.
Starting from me, only vegetables and fresh fruits will be used for sacrifices after death, not the same as those for ancestors of previous generations.
Just teach your children and grandchildren clearly not to forget your parents and relatives throughout the year.
Confucius said: Even if you use vegetable soup and vegetable food to offer sacrifices, you must do so respectfully, as if you are fasting.
The most important thing is sincerity and respect. What does it mean that the etiquette utensils must be complete? Gu Xianzhi wrote dozens of poems, poems, inscriptions, praises and "Hengyang County Records".
Tao Jizhi was born in Moling, Danyang.
His grandfather Tao Minzu was the governor of Guangzhou during the Song Dynasty.
His father, Tao Jingren, served as a doctor in Zhongsan.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
季直早慧，愍祖甚爱异之。
愍祖尝以四函银列置于前，令诸孙各取，季直时甫四岁，独不取。
人问其故，季直曰： 若有赐，当先父伯，不应度及诸孙，是故不取。
愍祖益奇之。
五岁丧母，哀若成人。
初，母未病，令于外染衣；卒后，家人始赎，季直抱之号恸，闻者莫不酸感。
及长，好学，淡于荣利。
起家桂阳王国侍郎、北中郎镇西行参军，并不起，时人号曰 聘君 。
父忧服阕，尚书令刘秉领丹阳尹，引为后军主簿、领郡功曹。
出为望蔡令，顷之以病免。
时刘秉、袁粲以齐高帝权势日盛，将图之，秉素重季直，欲与之定策。
季直以袁、刘儒者，必致颠殒，固辞不赴。
俄而秉等伏诛。
齐初，为尚书比部郎，时褚渊为尚书令，与季直素善，频以为司空司徒主簿，委以府事。
渊卒，尚书令王俭以渊有至行，欲谥为文孝公，季直请曰： 文孝是司马道子谥，恐其人非具美，不如文简。
俭从之。
季直又请俭为渊立碑，终始营护，甚有吏节，时人美之。
迁太尉记室参军。
出为冠军司马、东莞太守，在郡号为清和。
还除散骑侍郎，领左卫司马，转镇西谘议参军。
齐武帝崩，明帝作相，诛锄异己，季直不能阿意，明帝颇忌之，乃出为辅国长史、北海太守。
边职上佐，素士罕为之者。
或劝季直造门致谢，明帝既见，便留之，以为骠骑谘议参军，兼尚书左丞。
仍迁建安太守，政尚清静，百姓便之。
还为中书侍郎，迁游击将军、兼廷尉。
梁台建，迁给事黄门侍郎。
常称仕至二千石，始愿毕矣，无为务人间之事，乃辞疾还乡里。
translation: 
Tao Jizhi was very intelligent when he was young. Tao Minzu liked him very much and thought he had an unusual temperament.
Tao Minzu once placed four envelopes of silver in front of him and ordered his grandchildren to take them. Tao Jizhi was just four years old at that time, and he was the only one who did not take money.
When asked about the reason why he did not take money, Tao Jizhi said: If my grandfather has a reward, it should be given to his father and uncles first, and should not be given directly to his grandchildren, so I do not take money.
When Tao Minzu heard this, he was even more surprised by his temperament and intelligence.
Tao Jizhi's mother died when he was five years old. He was as sad as an adult.
At first, when his mother was still sick, he was ordered to become a monk. After his mother died, his family redeemed him. Tao Jizhi hugged his mother's body and cried in mourning. Everyone who heard it was moved by sadness.
After growing up, Tao Jizhi loved learning and had little desire to pursue glory, fame and fortune.
When he first became an official, he was appointed as the Minister of the Guiyang Kingdom. He went west to join the army in Beizhonglang Town, but he did not take up the post. At that time, people called him "Bei Jun".
Tao Jizhi was in mourning because of his father's death. After the mourning period expired, Liu Bing, the Shangshu of Danyang Yin, promoted Tao Jizhi to the post of chief of the rear army and the county's meritorious officer.
Tao Jizhi went to Beijing again to serve as Wang Cai Ling, but was soon dismissed due to illness.
At that time, Liu Bing and Yuan Can plotted to overthrow Emperor Qi Gao because Emperor Qi Gao was becoming increasingly powerful.
Liu Bing had always respected Tao Jizhi, and he wanted to ask Tao Jizhi to study strategies to deal with Emperor Qi Gao. Tao Jizhi believed that both Yuan and Liu were Confucian scholars, and their conspiracy would definitely lead to their destruction, so he resolutely refused to keep the appointment.
Soon Liu Bing and others were executed for their crimes.
In the early years of the Qi Dynasty, Tao Jizhi was appointed as Shangshu Bibulang. At that time, Chu Yuan was appointed as Shangshu Ling. He had always been on good terms with Tao Jizhi, so he successively ordered Tao Jizhi to serve as Sikong and Situ chief clerk, and left the affairs of the mansion to Tao Jizhi.
After Chu Yuan passed away, Wang Jian, the minister of state, thought that Chu Yuan had noble virtues and wanted to confirm that Chu Yuan's title was Wen Xiaogong. Tao Jizhi made a request and said: "Wen Xiao" is the nickname of Sima Daozi. I am afraid that he is not perfect. Chu Yuan should not use the same nickname as him. It is better to give Mi as "Wen Jian".
Wang Jian followed Tao Jizhi's advice.
Tao Jizhi also asked Wang Jian to erect a monument for Chu Yuan. After the stele was erected, Tao Jizhi protected the stele well from beginning to end and maintained the ethics of an official. People at that time praised Tao Jizhi for this kind of virtue.
Tao Ji moved directly to the Taiwei Ji office and joined the army.
He also came to Beijing to serve as Champion Sima and Dongguan Prefect. During his tenure, Dongguan County was known as peaceful and stable.
Tao Jizhi returned to Beijing and was appointed as the minister of Sanqi, leading the left guard Sima, and was transferred to Zhenxi to consult and join the army.
Emperor Wu of Qi died, and Emperor Ming of Qi became prime minister. He punished dissenters, but Tao Jizhi refused to flatter him. Emperor Ming of Qi was very afraid of him, so he asked him to leave the capital and serve as the chief minister of the auxiliary state and the prefect of Beihai.
The subordinate officials of the DPRK held posts in border towns, and it was rare for scholars to be appointed as officials.
Someone advised Tao Ji to come to Emperor Qi Ming to apologize. After Emperor Ming of Qi met with Tao Jizhi, he left him in the capital and appointed him as a hussar to consult with the army and to serve as minister Zuo Cheng.
Then he was moved to the post of governor of Jian'an. Tao Jizhi advocated tranquility in his administration, and the people felt comfortable.
Tao Jizhi returned to Beijing and served as the Vice Minister of Zhongshu, and then moved to the post of guerrilla general and court lieutenant.
When Liang Wangtai Mansion was established, Tao Jizhi moved to serve as the Minister of Huangmen.
Tao Jizhi often said that when an official reached a position with a salary of two thousand dan, all his life's wishes were fulfilled. He no longer pursued glory and wealth in the world, so he resigned and returned to his hometown on the grounds of illness.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
天监初，就家拜太中大夫。
高祖曰： 梁有天下，遂不见此人。
十年，卒于家，时年七十五。
季直素清苦绝伦，又屏居十余载，及死，家徒四壁，子孙无以殡敛，闻者莫不伤其志焉。萧视素，兰陵人也。
祖思话，宋征西仪同三司；父惠明，吴兴太守；皆有盛名。
视素早孤贫，为叔父惠休所收恤。
起家为齐司徒法曹行参军，迁著作佐郎、太子舍人、尚书三公郎。
永元末，为太子洗马。
梁台建，高祖引为中尉骠骑记室参军。
天监初，为临川王友，复为太子中舍人、丹阳尹丞。
初拜，高祖赐钱八万，视素一朝散之亲友。
又迁司徒左西属、南徐州治中。
性静退，少嗜欲，好学，能清言，荣利不关于口，喜怒不形于色。
在人间及居职，并任情通率，不自矜高，天然简素，士人以此咸敬之。
及在京口，便有终焉之志，乃于摄山筑室。
会征为中书侍郎，遂辞不就，因还山宅，独居屏事，非亲戚不得至其篱门。
妻，太尉王俭女，久与别居，遂无子。
八年，卒。
亲故迹其事行，谥曰贞文先生。
史臣曰：顾宪之、陶季直，引年者也，萧视素则宦情鲜焉。比夫怀禄耽宠，婆娑人世，则殊间矣。
translation: 
In the early years of Tianjian, the imperial court sent people to his home to confer him the title of Taizhong doctor.
Emperor Gaozu said: Liang ruled the world, but he could not see this person.
In the tenth year of Tianjian, Tao Jizhi died at home at the age of seventy-five.
Tao Jizhi had always lived a poor life, no one could compare with him, and he had been living in seclusion for more than ten years. When he died, his family was destitute and his descendants had no money to bury him. Everyone who heard about the incident felt sad for his integrity. Xiao Wangsu was born in Lanling.
His grandfather Xiao Sihua was posthumously awarded the title of General Zhengxi and Kaifu Yitong Sansi in the Song Dynasty. His father, Xiao Huiming, served as the prefect of Wuxing. His grandfather and father both had great reputations.
Xiao Wangsu lost his father very early and his family was poor. He was adopted by his uncle Xiao Huixiu.
When he first became an official, he served as Situ Fa of Qi, Cao Xing joined the army, and moved to Zuo Lang, Prince Sheren, and Shangshu Sangong Lang.
In the last years of Yongyuan, Xiao Shisu was appointed as the prince to wash horses.
Liang Wangtai Mansion was established, and Emperor Gaozu selected him as a lieutenant in the Hussar Records Office to join the army.
In the early years of Tianjian, Xiao Shisu was appointed as Wangyou of Linchuan, and then as Prince Zhongsheren, Danyang Yincheng.
When he was first appointed to the official position, Emperor Gaozu gave Xiao Wangsu 80,000 yuan, and Xiao Wangsu gave all the money to his relatives and friends at once.
Xiao Wangsu moved to Situ Zuoxi and governed the center of Xuzhou in the south.
Xiao Shisu had a quiet and humble temperament, a pure heart, and a fondness for learning. He could talk about the mysteries of Lao and Zhuang, and he never talked about wealth and wealth, and his joy and anger were indistinguishable.
Regardless of whether he was living without an official or holding an official position, he acted according to his own temperament, was open-minded and frank, never arrogant, and showed his simple and simple nature. Scholars therefore respected him.
When he took office in Jingkou, he came up with the idea of ​​settling down in Jingkou for the rest of his life, so he built a house in Sheshan.
At this time, the imperial court recruited him as the minister of Zhongshu, so he refused to be an official and took up the post. He returned to his residence in Sheshan and lived alone without being concerned about worldly affairs. If he was not a relative, he would not be able to reach the gate of his residence.
Xiao Wangsu's wife was the daughter of Taiwei Wang Jian. Xiao Wangsu had separated from her a long time ago and had no children.
In the eighth year of Tianjian, Xiao Shisu passed away.
His relatives and friends inspected his deeds and conferred upon him the title of Mr. Zhenwen.
Shi Chen said: Gu Xianzhi and Tao Jizhi were people who retired to prolong their lives, but Xiao Shisu lacked enthusiasm for being an official. Compared with those who miss their salary, indulge in favors, and work hard in the world, there is indeed a big difference.


