Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 16]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
王昌一名郎，赵国邯郸人也。
素为卜相工，明星历，常以为河北有天子气。
时赵缪王子林好奇数，任侠于赵、魏间，多通豪猾，而郎与之亲善。
初，王莽篡位，长安中或自称成帝子子舆者，莽杀之。
郎缘是诈称真子舆，云 母故成帝讴者，尝下殿卒僵，须臾有黄气从上下，半日乃解，遂妊身就馆。赵后欲害之，伪易他人子，以故得全。
子舆年十二，识命者郎中李曼卿，与俱至蜀；十七，到丹阳；二十，还长安；展转中山，来往燕、赵，以须天时 。
林等愈动疑惑，乃与赵国大豪李育、张参等通谋，规共立郎。
会人间传赤眉将度河，林等因此宣言赤眉当至，立刘子舆以观众心，百姓多信之。
更始元年十二月，林等遂率车骑数百，晨入邯郸城，止于王宫，立郎为天子。
林为丞相，李育为大司马，张参为大将军。
分遣将帅，徇下幽、冀。
移檄州郡曰： 制诏部刺史、郡太守：朕，孝成皇帝子子舆者也。
昔遭赵氏之祸，因以王莽篡杀，赖知命者将护朕躬，解形河滨，削迹赵、魏。
王莽窃位，获罪于天，天命佑汉，故使东郡太守翟义、严乡侯刘信，拥兵征讨，出入胡、汉。
translation: 
Wang Chang was a prince, a native of Handan, Zhao State.
He was originally a fortune-teller and fortune-teller, and he had some knowledge of astronomy and calculus. He often thought that Hebei had the aura of the Son of Heaven.
At this time, Liu Lin, the son of King Mu of Zhao, loved magic and practiced chivalry between Zhao and Wei. He had many connections with powerful and lawless people, and Wang Chang was friendly with him.
At first, when Wang Mang usurped the throne, there was a man in Chang'an who claimed to be Liu Ziyu, the son of Emperor Cheng, and Wang Mang killed him.
Wang Lang relied on this clue and falsely claimed that he was the true son of the emperor, saying: My mother was a singer who became the emperor. One time when she was going down to the palace, she suddenly collapsed.
When Ziyu was twelve years old, a doctor named Li Manqing took him to Shu. When he was seventeen, he arrived in Danyang. When he was twenty, he returned to Chang'an. He traveled between Zhongshan and Yanzhao, waiting for the arrival of the right time.
Liu Lin and others were even more confused, so they conspired with Li Yu, Zhang Shen and others to plan to support Wang Lang.
It happened that people said that Red Eyebrow was about to cross the Yellow River, so Liu Lin and others declared that Red Eyebrow was coming, and asked Liu Ziyu to see the reaction of the people, and many people believed it.
In December of the first year of Gengshi, Liu Lin and others led hundreds of chariots and riders, entered Handan City early in the morning, stopped at the palace, and made Wang Lang the emperor.
Liu Lin was the Prime Minister, Li Yu was the Grand Sima, and Zhang Shen was the General.
Send generals to capture Youzhou and Jizhou respectively.
Send the proclamation to the prefectures and counties and say: "I order the governors of each prefecture and the prefect of the prefecture: I am Liu Ziyu, the son of Emperor Xiaocheng."
In the past, I was harmed by the Zhao family. After Wang Mang usurped the Han Dynasty, he killed the fake Ziyu. Fortunately, someone who knew the destiny protected me, and I was able to escape from the riverside and disappear between Zhao and Wei.
Wang Mang's theft of the throne offended Heaven, and Heaven blessed us with the Han Dynasty, so we sent Zhai Yi, the governor of Dongjun, and Liu Xin, the Marquis of Yanxiang, to support the attack and go between the Hu people and the Han people.

summary:
summary line 0: Wang Chang, a prince from Handan in Zhao State, was originally a fortune-teller with knowledge of astronomy. He believed Hebei had the aura of a Son of Heaven. Liu Lin, son of King Mu of Zhao, was a chivalrous man with connections to powerful figures, and Wang Chang befriended him. After Wang Mang usurped the throne and killed a man claiming to be Liu Ziyu, son of Emperor Cheng, Wang Lang falsely claimed to be the true son. He fabricated a story about his mother, a singer who became the emperor's consort, and his escape with a doctor. Liu Lin and others, including Li Yu and Zhang Shen, conspired to support Wang Lang. In December of the first year of Gengshi, they entered Handan, made Wang Lang emperor, and appointed Liu Lin as Prime Minister, Li Yu as Grand Sima, and Zhang Shen as General. They sent proclamations to prefectures, declaring Wang Lang as Liu Ziyu and calling for support. Wang Lang's claims gained traction, and much of northern China submitted to him.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
更始即位，永先诣洛阳，绍封为梁王，都睢阳。永闻更始政乱，遂据国起兵，以弟防为辅国大将军，防弟少公御史大夫，封鲁王。
遂招诸豪杰沛人周建等，并署为将帅，攻下齐阴、山阴、沛、楚、淮阳、汝南，凡得二十八城。
又遣使拜西防贼帅山阳佼彊为横行将军。
是时，东海人董宪起兵据其郡，而张步亦定齐地。
永遣使拜宪翼汉大将军、步辅汉大将军，与共连兵，遂专据东方。
及更始败，永自称天子。
建武二年夏，光武遣虎牙大将军盖延等伐永。
初，陈留人苏茂为更始讨难将军，与朱鲔等守洛阳。
鲔既降汉，茂亦归命，光武因使茂与盖延俱攻永。军中不相能，茂遂反，杀淮阳太守，掠得数县。据广乐而臣于永。
永以茂为大司马、淮阳王。
盖延遂围睢阳，数月，拔之，永将家属走虞。
translation: 
When Gengshi came to the throne, Liu Yong went to Luoyang first, was succeeded as King of Liang, and made his capital Suiyang. Liu Yong heard that Gengshi was in political chaos, so he raised troops based on the feudal city, and appointed his younger brother Liu Fang as the auxiliary general.
So he summoned all the heroes from Pei, Zhou Jian and others, and served as generals at the same time, and captured Jiyin, Shanyang, Pei, Chu, Huaiyang, and Runan, and captured twenty-eight cities in total.
He also sent envoys to worship Shanyang Jiaoqiang, the bandit commander in the west, as General Hengxing.
At this time, Dong Xian, a native of Donghai, raised troops and occupied Donghai County, and Zhang Bu also pacified Qi.
Liu Yong sent envoys to worship Dong Xian as the general of the Yi Han Dynasty, and Zhang Bu as the general of the auxiliary Han Dynasty. They joined forces with them, so they separated the east.
Later, the reform failed, and Liu Yong proclaimed himself emperor.
In the summer of the second year of Jianwu, Guangwu sent Huya General Gai Yan and others to attack Liu Yong.
At first, Su Mao, a native of Chenliu, attacked the general for the purpose of reform and guarded Luoyang with Zhu Tuna and others.
After Zhu Jun surrendered to the Han Dynasty, Su Mao also returned to Guangwu. Guangwu sent Su Mao and Gai Yan to attack Liu Yong together. When there was disharmony among the troops, Su Mao rebelled, killed the governor of Huaiyang, plundered several counties, occupied Guangle and declared himself a vassal to Liu Yong.
Liu Yong took Su Mao as the Grand Sima and King of Huaiyang.
Gai Yan then besieged Suiyang for several months and captured Suiyang. Liu Yong and his family fled Yu County.

summary:
summary line 1: The next year, Guangwu attacked Wang Lang, besieging Julu and then Handan. Wang Lang sent Du Wei to negotiate, claiming to be the true son of Emperor Cheng, but Guangwu refused. After a 20-day siege, Li Li, Wang Lang's Shaofu, rebelled and opened the city gates. Wang Lang fled but was killed. Liu Yong, an eighth-generation grandson of King Xiao of Liang, was enfeoffed after Gengshi's ascension. He raised troops, captured 28 cities, and allied with Dong Xian and Zhang Bu. After Gengshi's failure, Liu Yong proclaimed himself emperor. Guangwu sent Gai Yan to attack Liu Yong. Su Mao, initially serving Gengshi, surrendered to Guangwu but later rebelled and joined Liu Yong. Gai Yan besieged Suiyang, capturing it, but Liu Yong fled. After several battles, Liu Yong was killed, and his son Liu Yu was briefly established as king before being defeated. Dong Xian and Pang Meng also rebelled but were eventually killed. Zhang Bu, from Langfu, gathered troops and declared himself General Wuwei. He allied with Liu Yong and later killed Fulong, Guangwu's envoy. Guangwu attacked Zhang Bu, who was defeated and surrendered, but later fled and was killed.

Chunk 16: 
original: 
今汉亦中绝，刘氏来归我，亦当立之，令尊事我。 乃使句林王将数千骑迎芳，芳与兄禽、弟程俱入匈奴。
单于遂立芳为汉帝。
以程为中郎将，将胡骑还入安定。
初，五原人李兴、随昱，朔方人田飒，代郡人石鲔、闵堪，各起兵自称将军。
建武四年，单于遣无楼且渠王入五原塞，与李兴等和亲，告兴欲令芳还汉地为帝。
五年，李兴、闵堪引兵至单于庭迎芳，与俱入塞，都九原县。
掠有五原、朔方、云中、定襄、雁门五郡，并置守令，与胡通兵，侵苦北边。
六年，芳将军贾览将胡骑击杀代郡太守刘兴。
芳后以事诛其五原太守李兴兄弟，而其朔方太守田飒、云中太守桥扈恐惧，叛芳，举郡降，光武令领职如故。
后大司马吴汉、骠骑大将军杜茂数击芳，并不克。
十二年，芳与贾览共攻云中，久不下，其将随昱留守九原，欲胁芳降。
芳知羽翼外附，心膂内离，遂弃辎重，与十余骑亡入匈奴，其众尽归随昱。
昱乃随使者程恂诣阙。拜昱为五原太守，封镌胡侯，昱弟宪武进侯。
十六年，芳复入居高柳，与闵堪兄林使使请降。
乃立芳为代王，堪为代相，林为代太傅，赐缯二万匹，因使和集匈奴。
芳上疏谢曰： 臣芳过托先帝遗体，弃在边陲。社稷遭王莽废绝，以是子孙之忧，所宜共诛，故遂西连羌戎，北怀匈奴。
单于不忘旧德，权立救助，是时兵革并起，往往而在。
臣非敢有所贪觊，期于奉承宗庙，兴立社稷，是以久僣号位，十有余年，罪宜万死。
translation: 
Now that Han Zuo has been defeated, and the Liu family has returned to me, I should also establish him and let him respect me. So he sent King Julin to lead thousands of horses to meet Lu Fang. Lu Fang, his brother Lu Qin, and his brother Lu Cheng all went to the Xiongnu.
The Chanyu established Lu Fang as Emperor of the Han Dynasty.
With Lu Cheng as the Zhonglang general, he led the Huns cavalry back to Anding.
At first, Li Xing and Sui Yu from Wuyuan, Tian Sa from Shuofang, and Shi Tun and Min Kan from Daijun each raised their own troops and called themselves generals.
In the fourth year of Jianwu, Shanyu sent King Wulou Qiequ to Wuyuan fortress to make peace with Li Xing and others, and told Li Xing that he wanted to make Lu Fang return to the Han Dynasty and become the emperor of the Han Dynasty.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Li Xing and Min Kan led troops to the Shanyu Courtyard to welcome Lu Fang, and they entered the fortress together and made Jiuyuan County their capital.
The five counties of Wuyuan, Shuofang, Yunzhong, Dingxiang and Yanmen were plundered. They all set up prefectures and magistrates, and fought with the Xiongnu. The northern frontier was invaded and suffered.
In the sixth year of Jianwu, Lu Fang's general Jia Lan led Hu Qi to kill Liu Xing, the prefect of Daijun.
Lu Fang later executed the brothers Li Xing, the prefect of Wuyuan, so that Tian Sa, the prefect of Shuofang, and Qiao Hu, the prefect of Yunzhong, were frightened, rebelled against Lu Fang, and surrendered with the whole county. Guangwu ordered them to remain the prefects of the original county as before.
Later, Grand Sima Wu Han and Hussar General Du Mao attacked Lu Fang several times, but failed to conquer it.
In the twelfth year of Jianwu's reign, Lu Fang and Jia Lan jointly attacked Yunzhong, but could not capture it for a long time. Their general Sui Yu stayed in Jiuyuan, hoping to force Lu Fang to surrender.
Lu Fang knew that his subordinates were affiliated with the Han Dynasty and that their confidants were rebelling from within, so he abandoned his baggage and fled to the Xiongnu with more than ten cavalry. All his subordinates joined Sui Yu.
Sui Yu then went to the capital with his envoy Cheng Xun. Emperor Guangwu worshiped Sui Yu as the governor of Wuyuan, granted him the title of Marquis of Hu, and followed his younger brother Sui Xian as the Marquis of Wujin.
In the 16th year of Jianwu's reign, Lu Fang returned to Gaoliu County and sent an envoy to Min Kan's brother Min Lin to request his surrender.
The emperor then appointed Lu Fang as the acting king, Min Kan as the acting prime minister, and Min Lin as the acting Taifu. He gave him 20,000 pieces of silk, so that he could live in peace with the Xiongnu.
Lu Fang Shangshu Xie En said: My minister Lu Fang entrusted me with the late emperor's body, which was abandoned at the border. The Han Dynasty Sheji was abolished by Wang Mang. This is the worry of the descendants of the Liu family. They should rise up and kill the national traitors together. Therefore, I am connected with the Qiang Rong in the west and the Xiongnu in the north.
The Shanyu does not forget his old virtues, and he has the right to appoint me to help him. At that time, there were wars and revolutions everywhere.
I dare not be greedy and covet, but only hope to flatter the ancestral temple and establish the state. Therefore, I have usurped the title of Han Emperor for more than ten years. This is a crime worthy of death.

summary:
summary line 2: Li Xian, from Xuchang, declared himself King of Huainan and later emperor. Guangwu attacked and captured Shu County, leading to Li Xian's death. Peng Chong, from Wan County, served as a county official and later fled to Yuyang. He supported Guangwu but became resentful when his rewards were insufficient. He rebelled, attacked Zhufu, and allied with the Xiongnu. He declared himself King of Yan but was killed by his servants. Lu Fang, from Sanshui, falsely claimed to be Liu Wenbo, a descendant of Emperor Wu. He allied with the Xiongnu and declared himself emperor. He fought with Guangwu's forces but eventually surrendered, though he later rebelled again and died among the Xiongnu. The historian comments that the Liu family's legacy endured due to the deep kindness of Gaozu and Xiaowen, and that the rebels like Wang, Liu, Zhang, Li, Peng, and Lu merely took advantage of the situation without true foresight or strategy.

