Chunk 0: 
original: 
王昌一名郎，赵国邯郸人也。
素为卜相工，明星历，常以为河北有天子气。
时赵缪王子林好奇数，任侠于赵、魏间，多通豪猾，而郎与之亲善。
初，王莽篡位，长安中或自称成帝子子舆者，莽杀之。
郎缘是诈称真子舆，云 母故成帝讴者，尝下殿卒僵，须臾有黄气从上下，半日乃解，遂妊身就馆。赵后欲害之，伪易他人子，以故得全。
子舆年十二，识命者郎中李曼卿，与俱至蜀；十七，到丹阳；二十，还长安；展转中山，来往燕、赵，以须天时 。
林等愈动疑惑，乃与赵国大豪李育、张参等通谋，规共立郎。
会人间传赤眉将度河，林等因此宣言赤眉当至，立刘子舆以观众心，百姓多信之。
更始元年十二月，林等遂率车骑数百，晨入邯郸城，止于王宫，立郎为天子。
林为丞相，李育为大司马，张参为大将军。
分遣将帅，徇下幽、冀。
移檄州郡曰： 制诏部刺史、郡太守：朕，孝成皇帝子子舆者也。
昔遭赵氏之祸，因以王莽篡杀，赖知命者将护朕躬，解形河滨，削迹赵、魏。
王莽窃位，获罪于天，天命佑汉，故使东郡太守翟义、严乡侯刘信，拥兵征讨，出入胡、汉。
translation: 
Wang Chang was a prince, a native of Handan, Zhao State.
He was originally a fortune-teller and fortune-teller, and he had some knowledge of astronomy and calculus. He often thought that Hebei had the aura of the Son of Heaven.
At this time, Liu Lin, the son of King Mu of Zhao, loved magic and practiced chivalry between Zhao and Wei. He had many connections with powerful and lawless people, and Wang Chang was friendly with him.
At first, when Wang Mang usurped the throne, there was a man in Chang'an who claimed to be Liu Ziyu, the son of Emperor Cheng, and Wang Mang killed him.
Wang Lang relied on this clue and falsely claimed that he was the true son of the emperor, saying: My mother was a singer who became the emperor. One time when she was going down to the palace, she suddenly collapsed.
When Ziyu was twelve years old, a doctor named Li Manqing took him to Shu. When he was seventeen, he arrived in Danyang. When he was twenty, he returned to Chang'an. He traveled between Zhongshan and Yanzhao, waiting for the arrival of the right time.
Liu Lin and others were even more confused, so they conspired with Li Yu, Zhang Shen and others to plan to support Wang Lang.
It happened that people said that Red Eyebrow was about to cross the Yellow River, so Liu Lin and others declared that Red Eyebrow was coming, and asked Liu Ziyu to see the reaction of the people, and many people believed it.
In December of the first year of Gengshi, Liu Lin and others led hundreds of chariots and riders, entered Handan City early in the morning, stopped at the palace, and made Wang Lang the emperor.
Liu Lin was the Prime Minister, Li Yu was the Grand Sima, and Zhang Shen was the General.
Send generals to capture Youzhou and Jizhou respectively.
Send the proclamation to the prefectures and counties and say: "I order the governors of each prefecture and the prefect of the prefecture: I am Liu Ziyu, the son of Emperor Xiaocheng."
In the past, I was harmed by the Zhao family. After Wang Mang usurped the Han Dynasty, he killed the fake Ziyu. Fortunately, someone who knew the destiny protected me, and I was able to escape from the riverside and disappear between Zhao and Wei.
Wang Mang's theft of the throne offended Heaven, and Heaven blessed us with the Han Dynasty, so we sent Zhai Yi, the governor of Dongjun, and Liu Xin, the Marquis of Yanxiang, to support the attack and go between the Hu people and the Han people.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
普天率土，知朕隐在人间。
南岳诸刘，为其先驱。
朕仰观天文，乃兴于斯，以今月壬辰即位赵宫。
休气熏蒸，应时获雨。
盖闻为国，子之袭父，古今不易。
刘圣公未知朕，故且持帝号。
诸兴义兵，咸以助朕，皆当裂土享祚子孙。
已诏圣公及翟太守，亟与功臣诣行在所。
疑刺史、二千石皆圣公所置，未睹朕之沉滞，或不识去就，强者负力，弱者惶惑。
今元元创痍，已过半矣，朕甚悼焉，故遣使者班下诏书。 郎以百姓思汉，既多言翟义不死，故祚称之，以从人望。
于是赵国以北，辽东以西，皆从风而靡。
明年，光武自蓟得郎檄，南走信都，发兵徇帝县，遂攻柏人，不下。
议者以为守柏人不如定巨鹿，光武乃引兵东北围巨鹿。
translation: 
Everyone in the world, on the shores of the earth, knows that I am hidden in the world.
The Liu brothers in Nanyue are all my pioneers.
I looked up at the astronomical sky and knew that God wanted me to rise here, so I ascended the throne of Zhao Palace on Renchen this month.
The auspicious atmosphere is fumigating, and the rain falls at the right time.
I heard that for a country's leader, the son inherits the throne from his father. This is a legal system that has not changed since ancient times.
Liu Shenggong didn't know I was there, so he temporarily became emperor.
They are all helping me by raising armies for justice, and they should allocate land so that their descendants can enjoy happiness.
I have ordered Duke Sheng and Prefect Zhai to hurry up and come to me with all the heroes.
Some people suspect that the governor and the two thousand stones were set up by the Holy Gong. They did not see my stagnation and suffering, and some did not know where to go. The strong relied on their own strength, and the weak were afraid and confused.
Now the common people are suffering from wounds, and I am afraid that more than half of them are dead or injured. I feel very sad, so I sent an envoy to issue an edict. Wang Lang saw that the people missed the Han Dynasty, and many people said that Zhai Yi was not dead yet, so he told these lies to comply with the popularity of the people.
So the north of Zhao and the west of Liaodong were invincible.
The next year, Guangwu received Wang Lang's letter from Jixian and rushed to Xindu. He sent troops to attack the next county and then turned to attack Bairen, but failed to capture it.
The people who discussed it thought that besieging the Bai people was not as good as pacifying Julu, so Guangwu led his troops to the northeast to besiege Julu.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
郎太守王饶据城，数十日连攻不克。
耿纯说曰： 久守王饶，士众疲敝，不如及大兵精锐，进攻邯郸。
若王郎已诛，王饶不战自服矣。 光武善其计，乃留将军邓满守巨鹿，而进军邯郸，屯其郭北门。
郎数出战不利，乃使其谏议大夫杜威持节请降。
威雅称郎实成帝遗体。
光武曰： 设使成帝复生，天下不可得，况诈子舆者乎！ 威请求万户侯。
光武曰： 顾得全身可矣。 威曰： 邯郸虽鄙，并力固守，尚旷日月，终不君臣相率但全身而已。 遂辞而去。
因急攻之，二十余日，郎少傅李立为反间，开门内汉兵，遂拔邯郸。
郎夜亡走，道死，追斩之。
刘永者，梁郡睢阳人，梁孝王八世孙也。
传国至父立。
元始中，立与平帝外家卫氏交通，为王莽所诛。
translation: 
Wang Lang's prefect, Wang Rao, defended the city and could not defeat it for dozens of days.
Geng Chun suggested: After besieging Wang Rao for a long time, the soldiers are exhausted, so it is better to attack Handan with a large number of elite soldiers.
If Wang Lang is killed, Wang Rao can surrender without a fight. Guangwu thought this was a good plan, so he left General Deng Man to surround Julu, led his army to attack Handan, and stationed troops at the north gate of the city.
Wang Lang sent troops several times but failed, so he sent his admonishment doctor Duwei to hold the talisman to ask Guangwu to surrender.
Dewey pretended that Wang Lang was actually the biological son of Emperor Cheng.
Guangwu said: Even if the emperor is resurrected, it will not be available to the world, let alone someone who pretends to be Ziyu! Dewey requested that he be granted the title of Marquis of Wanhu.
Guangwu said: As long as we can save his life. Dewey said: Although Handan is a small country, if it tries its best to hold on, it can still hold on for a long time, but it cannot be done to save lives. So he resigned.
Guangwu rushed to attack. After more than 20 days, Wang Lang Shaofu Li Li rebelled and opened the city gate to welcome the Han soldiers, so he attacked Handan.
Wang Lang fled at night and went on a dead end, and was killed by the pursuers.
Liu Yong, a native of Suiyang, Liang County, is the eighth generation grandson of King Xiao of Liang.
It is said that Liu Yong's father, Liu Li, was ennobled.
In the beginning of the Yuan Dynasty, Liu Li had contacts with the Wei family of Emperor Ping's family, and was killed by Wang Mang.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
更始即位，永先诣洛阳，绍封为梁王，都睢阳。永闻更始政乱，遂据国起兵，以弟防为辅国大将军，防弟少公御史大夫，封鲁王。
遂招诸豪杰沛人周建等，并署为将帅，攻下齐阴、山阴、沛、楚、淮阳、汝南，凡得二十八城。
又遣使拜西防贼帅山阳佼彊为横行将军。
是时，东海人董宪起兵据其郡，而张步亦定齐地。
永遣使拜宪翼汉大将军、步辅汉大将军，与共连兵，遂专据东方。
及更始败，永自称天子。
建武二年夏，光武遣虎牙大将军盖延等伐永。
初，陈留人苏茂为更始讨难将军，与朱鲔等守洛阳。
鲔既降汉，茂亦归命，光武因使茂与盖延俱攻永。军中不相能，茂遂反，杀淮阳太守，掠得数县。据广乐而臣于永。
永以茂为大司马、淮阳王。
盖延遂围睢阳，数月，拔之，永将家属走虞。
translation: 
When Gengshi came to the throne, Liu Yong went to Luoyang first, was succeeded as King of Liang, and made his capital Suiyang. Liu Yong heard that Gengshi was in political chaos, so he raised troops based on the feudal city, and appointed his younger brother Liu Fang as the auxiliary general.
So he summoned all the heroes from Pei, Zhou Jian and others, and served as generals at the same time, and captured Jiyin, Shanyang, Pei, Chu, Huaiyang, and Runan, and captured twenty-eight cities in total.
He also sent envoys to worship Shanyang Jiaoqiang, the bandit commander in the west, as General Hengxing.
At this time, Dong Xian, a native of Donghai, raised troops and occupied Donghai County, and Zhang Bu also pacified Qi.
Liu Yong sent envoys to worship Dong Xian as the general of the Yi Han Dynasty, and Zhang Bu as the general of the auxiliary Han Dynasty. They joined forces with them, so they separated the east.
Later, the reform failed, and Liu Yong proclaimed himself emperor.
In the summer of the second year of Jianwu, Guangwu sent Huya General Gai Yan and others to attack Liu Yong.
At first, Su Mao, a native of Chenliu, attacked the general for the purpose of reform and guarded Luoyang with Zhu Tuna and others.
After Zhu Jun surrendered to the Han Dynasty, Su Mao also returned to Guangwu. Guangwu sent Su Mao and Gai Yan to attack Liu Yong together. When there was disharmony among the troops, Su Mao rebelled, killed the governor of Huaiyang, plundered several counties, occupied Guangle and declared himself a vassal to Liu Yong.
Liu Yong took Su Mao as the Grand Sima and King of Huaiyang.
Gai Yan then besieged Suiyang for several months and captured Suiyang. Liu Yong and his family fled Yu County.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
虞人反，杀其母及妻子，永与麾下数十人奔谯。
苏茂。佼彊、周建合军救永，为盖延所败，茂奔还广乐，彊、建从永走保湖陵。
三年春，永遣使立张步为齐王，董宪为海西王。
于是遣大司马吴汉等围苏茂于广乐，周建率众救茂，茂、建战败，弃城复还湖陵，而睢阳人反城迎永。
吴汉与盖延等合军围之，城中食尽，永与茂、建走酂。
诸将追急，永将庆吾斩永首降，封吾为列侯。
苏茂、周建奔垂惠，共立永子纡为梁王。
佼彊还保西防。
四年秋，遣捕虏将军马武、骑都尉王霸围纡、建于垂惠，苏茂将五校兵救之，纡、建亦出兵与武等战，不克，而建兄子诵反，闭城门拒之。
建、茂、纡等皆走，建于道死，茂奔下邳与董宪合，纡奔佼彊。
五年，遣骠骑大将军杜茂攻佼彊于西防，彊与刘纡奔董宪。
translation: 
The Yu people rebelled and killed Liu Yong's mother, wife and children. Liu Yong and dozens of his men fled to Qiao County.
Su Mao, Jiaoqiang, and Zhou Jian joined forces to rescue Liu Yong, but were defeated by Gai Yan. Su Mao rushed back to Guangle, while Jiaoqiang and Zhou Jian followed Liu Yong to protect Huling.
In the spring of the third year of Jianwu, Liu Yong sent envoys to establish Zhang Bu as King of Qi and Dong Xian as King of Haixi.
Guangwu then sent Grand Sima Wu Han and others to surround Su Mao in Guangle. Zhou Jian led his troops to rescue Su Mao. Sum Mao and Zhou Jian were defeated, abandoned Guangle City and returned to Huling, while the Suiyang people in turn gathered the city to welcome Liu Yong.
Wu Han, Gai Yan and other combined forces surrounded Suiyang and the city ran out of food. Liu Yong, Su Mao and Zhou Jian fled to Zanhuang County.
The generals pursued him urgently. Liu Yong beheaded Qingwu and surrendered. Qingwu was granted the title of lord.
Su Mao and Zhou Jian fled to Chuihui and jointly established Liu Yong's son Liu Yu as King of Liang.
Jiaoqiang fled back to the west to defend himself.
In the autumn of the fourth year of Jianwu, Guangwu sent the captured general Ma Wu and the cavalry captain Wang Ba to surround Liu Yu and Zhou Jian in Chuihui. Su Mao led five soldiers to rescue them. Liu Yu and Zhou Jian also sent troops to fight Ma Wu and others, but they were defeated. However, Zhou Jian's nephew Zhou Song rebelled and closed the city gates to resist.
Su Mao, Zhou Jian, and Liu Yu all fled. Zhou Jian died on the road. Su Mao fled to Xiapi to join Dong Xian, and Liu Yu became the best.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Guangwu sent General Du Mao to attack Jiaoqiang and defend against the west. Jiaoqiang and Liu Yu fled to Dong Xian.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
时，平狄将军庞萌反叛，遂袭破盖延，引兵与董宪连和，自号东平王，屯桃乡之北。
庞萌，山阳人。
初亡命在下江兵中。
更始立，以为冀州牧，将兵属尚书令谢躬，共破王郎。
及躬败，萌乃归降，光武即位，以为侍中。
萌为人逊顺，甚见信爱。
帝常称曰： 可以托六尺之孤，寄百里之命者，庞萌是也。 拜为平狄将军，与盖延共击董宪。
时，诏书独下延而不及萌，萌以为延谮己，自疑，遂反。
帝闻之，大怒，乃自将讨萌。
与诸将书曰： 吾常以庞萌社稷之臣，将军得无笑其言乎？
老贼当族。
其各厉兵马，会睢阳！ 宪闻帝自讨庞萌，乃与刘纡、苏茂、佼彊去下邳，还兰陵，使茂、彊助萌，合兵三万，急围桃城。
translation: 
At this time, General Pang Meng of Pingdi rebelled, so he conquered Gaiyan, led his troops to join forces with Dong Xian, named himself King Dongping, and stationed troops in the north of Taoxiang.
Pang Meng is from Shanyang.
At first, he died among the soldiers in Xiajiang.
Gengshi ascended the throne and appointed him as the shepherd of Jizhou, and ordered him to lead the army under the command of Shangshu Ling Xie Gong to defeat Wang Lang.
After Xie Gong failed, Pang Meng surrendered. Guangwu ascended the throne and made him his attendant.
Pang Meng was humble and docile, and was loved by Guangwu.
Guangwu often praised and said: "The person who can entrust an underage orphan with a mission is Pang Meng." He was worshiped as General Pingdi and jointly attacked Dong Xian with Gai Yan.
At this time, the edict was only issued to Gai Yan but not to Pang Meng. Pang Meng thought that Gai Yan had said bad things about him, so he became suspicious and rebelled.
After hearing this, Guangwu was furious and personally led his army to attack Pang Meng.
Guangwu wrote to the generals: I always thought that Pang Meng was a trustworthy and loyal minister. Wouldn't the generals laugh at my words?
Pang Meng, an old thief, should be exterminated.
You each have strong horses and strong troops, and join forces in Suiyang! When Dong Xian heard that Guangwu was attacking Pang Meng, he went to Xiapi with Liu Yu, Su Mao, and Jiaoqiang, and returned to Lanling. He asked Su Mao and Jiaoqiang to assist Pang Meng, and they combined 30,000 troops to besiege Taocheng.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
帝时幸蒙，闻之，乃留辎重，自将轻骑三千，步卒数万，晨夜驰赴，师次任城，去桃乡六十里。
旦日，诸将请进，贼亦勒兵挑战，帝不听，乃休士养锐，以挫其锋。
城中闻车驾至，众心益固。
时吴汉等在东郡，驰使召之。
萌等乃悉兵攻城，二十余日，众疲困而不能下。及吴汉与诸将到，乃率众军进桃战，而帝亲自搏战，大破之。
萌、茂、彊夜弃辎重逃奔，董宪乃与刘纡悉其兵数万人屯昌虑，自将锐卒拒新阳。
帝先遣吴汉击破之，宪走还昌虑。
汉进守之，宪恐，乃招诱五校余贼步骑数千人屯建阳，去昌虑三十里。
帝王蕃，去宪所百余里。
诸将请进，帝不听，知五校乏食当退，敕各坚壁以待其敝。
顷之，五校粮尽，果引去。
帝乃亲临，四面攻宪，三日，复大破之，众皆奔散。
translation: 
The emperor arrived in Mongolia at this time. When he heard the news, he left his baggage behind and personally led three thousand light cavalry and tens of thousands of infantry. He marched on a starry night and stationed himself in Rencheng, sixty miles away from Taoxiang.
Early in the morning, the generals requested to march, and the thieves also led their troops to challenge, but the emperor did not listen, so he rested and recuperated his soldiers to recharge their batteries in order to defeat the enemy.
When the city heard that the emperor had arrived, everyone felt more stable.
At this time, Wu Han and others were in Dongjun, and the emperor sent someone to summon him.
Pang Meng attacked the city with his entire army. For more than twenty days, his troops were too exhausted to capture the city. When Wu Han and his generals arrived, they led their troops into Taocheng. Emperor Guangwu fought in person and defeated Pang Meng's army.
Pang Meng, Su Mao, and Jiaoqiang fled at night, abandoning their baggage. Dong Xian and Liu Yu stationed tens of thousands of soldiers in Changli, and led their elite troops to defend Xinyang.
The emperor first sent Wu Han to defeat him, and Dong Xian fled back to Changli.
Wu Han advanced in pursuit, and Dong Xian was frightened, so he lured thousands of remaining thieves from the Five Schools to garrison in Jianyang, thirty miles away from Changli.
When the emperor arrived in Tibet, he was more than a hundred miles away from Dong Xian's residence.
The generals asked for troops, but the emperor refused to listen. Knowing that the five schools were short of food, he had to retreat, and ordered all ministries to fortify the walls to wait for his death.
Soon, the five schools ran out of food and retreated.
The emperor came in person and attacked Dong Xian from all sides. For three days, he once again defeated Dong Xian's army and all the soldiers fled.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
遣吴汉追击之，佼彊将其众降，苏茂奔张步，宪及庞萌走入缯山。
数日，吏士闻宪尚在，复往往相聚，得数百骑，迎宪入郯城。
吴汉等复攻拔郯，宪与庞萌走保朐。
刘纡不知所归，军士高扈斩其首降，梁地悉平。
吴汉进围朐。
明年，城中谷尽，宪、萌潜出，袭取赣榆，琅邪太守陈俊攻之，宪、萌走泽中。
会吴汉下朐城，进尽获其妻子。
宪乃流涕谢其将士曰： 妻子皆已得矣。
嗟乎！
久苦诸卿。 乃将数十骑夜去，欲从间道归降，而吴汉校尉韩湛追斩宪于方与，方与人黔陵亦斩萌，皆传首洛阳。
封韩湛为列侯，黔陵关内侯。
张步字文公，琅邪不其人也。
汉兵之起，步亦聚众数千，转攻傍县，下数城，自为五威将军，遂据本郡。
更始遣魏郡王闳为琅邪太守，步拒之，不得进。
translation: 
The emperor sent Wu Han to pursue them, but Jiao Qiang led his troops to surrender. Su Mao rushed to Zhang Bu, and Dong Xian and Pang Meng walked into Zhuangshan County.
A few days later, Dong Xian's officials heard that Xian was still there, and gradually gathered together with hundreds of horses to welcome Dong Xian into Tancheng.
Wu Han and others captured Tancheng again, and Dong Xian and Pang Meng fled to Qu County.
Liu Yu didn't know where he was fleeing. The sergeant Gao Hu beheaded him and surrendered, and the entire Liang area was pacified.
Wu Han entered and besieged Qu County.
Next year, when the city ran out of food, Dong Xian and Pang Meng escaped and attacked Ganyu. Chen Jun, the prefect of Langfu, attacked, but Dong Xian and Pang Meng fled into the water.
When Wu Han captured Qucheng, his wife and children were all captured.
Dong Xian shed tears and thanked his soldiers, saying: "My wife and children have all been captured." well!
I have been suffering for a long time.
He only led dozens of cavalry to escape at night, hoping to surrender through the trail. However, Han Zhan, the captain of Wu Han, pursued and killed Dong Xian in Fang Yu, and Qian Ling, a member of Fang Yu, also beheaded Pang Meng and sent their heads to Luoyang.
Han Zhan was granted the title of Liehou, and Qianling was granted the title of Guannei Marquis.
Zhang Bu, whose courtesy name was Wengong, was not from Langfu County.
After the Han soldiers rose up, Zhang Bu also gathered thousands of people to attack nearby counties and captured several cities. He called himself General Wuwei and occupied Langfu County.
Gengshi sent Wei Jun Wang Hong as the prefect of Langfu, but Zhang Bu refused and was not allowed to enter.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
闳为檄，晓喻吏人降，得赣榆等六县，收兵数千人，与步战，不胜。
时梁王刘永自以更始所立，贪步兵强，承制拜步辅汉大将军、忠节侯，督青、徐二州，使征不从命者。
步贪其爵号，遂受之。
乃理兵于剧，以弟弘为卫将军，弘弟蓝玄武大将军，蓝弟寿高密太守。
遣将徇太山、东莱、城阳、胶东、北海、济南、齐诸郡，皆下之。
步大陈兵引闳，怒曰： 步有何过，君前见攻之甚乎！ 闳按剑曰： 太守奉朝命，而文公拥兵相距，闳攻贼耳，何谓甚邪！ 步嘿然，良久，离席跪谢，乃陈乐献酒，待以上宾之礼，令闳关掌郡事。
建武三年，光武遣光禄大夫伏隆持节使齐，拜步为东莱太守。
刘永闻隆至剧，乃驰遣立步为齐王，步即杀隆而受永命。
是时，帝方北忧渔阳，南事梁、楚，故步得专集齐地，据郡十二，及刘永死，步等欲立永子纡为天子，自为定汉公，置百官。
王闳谏曰： 梁王以奉本朝之故，是以山东颇能归之。
今尊立其子，将疑众心。且齐人多诈，宜且详之。 步乃止。
五年，步闻帝将攻之，以其将费邑为济南王，屯历下。
冬，建威大将军耿弇破斩费邑，进拔临淄。
步以弇兵少远客，可一举而取，乃悉将其众攻弇于临淄。
步兵大败，还奔剧。
帝自幸剧。
步退保平寿，苏茂将万余人来救之。
茂让步曰： 以南阳兵精，延岑善战，而耿弇走之。
大王奈何就攻其营？
既呼茂，不能待邪？ 步曰： 负负，无可言者。 帝乃遣使告步、茂，能相斩降者，封为列侯。
步遂斩茂，使使奉其首降。
translation: 
Wang Hong issued a proclamation and told the officials to surrender. He took six counties including Ganyu and collected thousands of soldiers. They fought with Zhang Bu but were unable to win.
At this time, Liu Yong, the king of Liang, thought he was appointed by Gengshi and was greedy for Zhang Bu's strength. Following Gengshi's will, he appointed Zhang Bu as a general to assist the Han Dynasty and a loyal marquis. He supervised Qingzhou and Xuzhou and asked him to conquer those who disobeyed orders.
Zhang Bu was greedy for his title, so he accepted it.
He governed the military affairs in Ju County, with his younger brother Zhang Hong as the General of Guard, Hong's younger brother Zhang Lan as the General of Xuanwu, and Lan's younger brother Zhang Shou as the Governor of Gaomi.
He sent generals to capture the counties of Taishan, Donglai, Chengyang, Jiaodong, Beihai, Jinan, and Qi, and captured them all.
Zhang Bu showed his army to Wang Hong and said angrily: "What's wrong with me, Zhang Bu? Why did you attack me so hard before?" Wang Hong pressed his sword and said: "The governor is under the order of the imperial court, but you are resisting with your troops. I am just attacking the thieves. What's the point?" Zhang Bu remained silent for a long time, then left his seat and knelt down to apologize. Then he played music and offered wine to treat the guests with courtesy. Wang Hongtong was ordered to take charge of county affairs.
In the third year of Jianwu's reign, Guangwu sent Fulong, a doctor from Guanglu, to come here with a talisman and worship Zhang Bu as the prefect of Donglai.
When Liu Yong heard that Fulong had arrived in Jixian, he appointed Zhang Bu as King of Qi from Chidao. Zhang Bu killed Fulong and accepted Liu Yong's appointment.
At this time, the emperor was worried about Yuyang in the north and Liang and Chu in the south, so Zhang Bu was able to concentrate his efforts on Qi and occupied twelve counties. When Liu Yong died, Zhang Bu wanted to make Liu Yong's son Liu Yu the emperor, and himself the Duke of Han Dynasty, and appoint hundreds of officials.
Wang Hong advised: "The King of Liang served Gengshi, so many people in Shandong were able to submit to him."
Now if his son is made emperor, everyone will be suspicious. Moreover, there are many deceitful people in Qi, so we should make detailed plans. Zhang Bu stopped.
In the fifth year of Jianwu, Zhang Bu heard that the emperor would attack him, so he appointed his general Fei Yi as the king of Jinan and stationed troops there.
In the winter, Geng, the general of Jianwei, captured and beheaded Fei Yi, and then marched to capture Linzi.
Zhang Bu thought that Geng's troops were small and came from a long way, so he could win in one fell swoop, so he led all his troops to attack Geng Yan in Linzi.
Zhang Bubing was defeated and fled back to Ju County.
The emperor went to Ju County in person.
Zhang Bu retreated to save his life, and Su Mao led more than 10,000 people to rescue him.
Su Mao criticized Zhang Bu and said: Nanyang is as elite as Yancen and Yancen is as good at fighting, but Geng Yan defeated him and drove him away.
Why did the king attack his camp?
Since you called me, why didn't you wait for me? Zhang Bu said: I'm sorry, I have nothing to say. The emperor then sent envoys to tell Zhang Bu and Sum Mao that whoever could kill the other to surrender would be made a marquis.
Zhang Bu then beheaded Sumao and sent an envoy to surrender with Sumao's head.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
步三弟各自系所在狱，皆赦之。
封步为安丘侯，后与家属居洛阳。
王闳亦诣剧降。
八年夏，步将妻子逃奔临淮，与弟弘、蓝欲招其故众，乘船入海，琅邪太守陈俊追击斩之。
王闳者，王莽叔父平阿侯谭之子也，哀帝时为中常侍。
时幸臣董贤为大司马，宠爱贵盛，闳屡谏，忤旨。
哀帝临崩，以玺绶付贤曰： 无妄以与人。 时国无嗣主，内外恇惧，闳白元后，请夺之；即带剑至宣德后闼，举手叱贤曰： 宫车晏驾，国嗣未立，公受恩深重，当俯伏号泣，何事久持玺绶以待祸至邪！ 贤知闳必死，不敢拒之，乃跪授玺绶。
闳持上太后，朝廷壮之。
及王莽篡位，僣忌闳，乃出为东郡太守。
闳惧诛，常系药手内。
莽败，汉兵起，闳独完全东郡三十余万户，归降更始。
translation: 
Zhang Bu's three younger brothers were each taken to prison to plead guilty, but they were all pardoned.
Zhang Bu was granted the title of Marquis of Anqiu, and later he and his family lived in Luoyang.
Wang Hong also went to Ju County to surrender.
In the summer of the eighth year of Jianwu, Zhang Bu fled to Linhuai with his wife. He, his brothers Zhang Hong and Zhang Lan wanted to recruit his old troops and sailed into the sea. Chen Jun, the prefect of Langfu, pursued and beheaded him.
Wang Hong was the son of Wang Mang's uncle, Ping'ahou Wang Tan, and was a regular attendant during the reign of Emperor Ai.
Dong Xian, who was favored at that time, was the Grand Sima and favored Guisheng. Wang Hong repeatedly advised him against his will.
Before Emperor Ai died, he paid Dong Xian with a seal ribbon and said: Don't give it to others casually. At that time, the country had no heir, and there was fear both internally and externally. Wang Hong told Empress Yuan to seize Dong Xian's seal and ribbon. He took his sword to the middle gate of Xuande's harem, raised his hands and scolded Dong Xian, saying: The emperor has died and a new king has not yet been established. You have been favored so much that you should fall down and howl and cry. Why do you hold on to the seal and ribbon for so long to wait for disaster to come? Dong Xian knew that he would die if he did not hand over the seal and ribbon, so he did not dare to resist, so he knelt down and handed the seal and ribbon to Wang Hong.
Wang Hong presented the seal and ribbon to the Queen Mother, and the court appreciated it very much.
Later, Wang Mang usurped the throne and became more suspicious of Wang Hong's arrogance, so he went out to serve as the prefect of Dongjun.
Wang Hong was afraid of being killed and often carried poison in his hands.
After Wang Mang's defeat, the Han army rose up, and Wang Hong single-handedly brought together more than 300,000 households in Edong County and surrendered to Gengshi.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
李宪者，颍川许昌人也。
王莽时为庐江属令。
莽末，江贼王州公等起众十余万，攻掠郡县，莽以宪为偏将军、庐江连率，击破州公。
莽败，宪据郡自守。
更始元年，自称淮南王。
建武三年，遂自立为天子，置公卿百官，拥九城，众十余万。
四年秋，光武幸寿春，遣扬武将军马成等击宪，围舒。至六年正月，拔之。
宪亡走，其军士帛意，追斩宪而降，宪妻子皆伏诛。
封帛意渔侯。
后宪余党淳于临等犹聚众数千人，屯灊山，攻杀安风令。
杨州牧欧阳歙遣兵不能克，帝议欲讨之。
庐江人陈众为从事，白歙请得喻降临；于是乘单车，驾白马，往说而降之。
灊山人共生为立祠，号 白马陈从事 云。
彭宠字伯通，南阳宛人也。
translation: 
Li Xian was born in Xuchang, Yingchuan.
At the time of Wang Mang, he was the subordinate order of Lujiang.
In the last years of Wang Mang, the Jiang thief Wang Zhougong and others raised more than 100,000 troops to attack counties and counties. Wang Mang took Li Xian as the partial general and led the Lujiang Company to defeat Wang Zhougong.
Wang Mang failed, and Li Xian took over the county to defend himself.
In the first year of Gengshi, Li Xian called himself King of Huainan.
In the third year of Jianwu's reign, Li Xian established himself as emperor, appointed hundreds of officials, owned nine cities, and more than 100,000 people.
In the autumn of the fourth year of Jianwu, Guangwu arrived in Shouchun and sent General Yangwu Ma Cheng and others to attack Li Xian and surrounded Shu County in Lujiang. In the first month of the sixth year of Jianwu, Shu County was captured.
Li Xian fled, and his sergeant Bo Yi chased Li Xian and surrendered. Li Xian's wives were killed.
Fengbo means Yupuhou.
Later, the remnants of Li Xian's party, Zhen Yu Lin and others, gathered thousands of people to camp in the mountains and attack the Anfeng County magistrate.
Yangzhou Mu Ouyang She sent troops to attack but could not win, so the emperor discussed and prepared to go to attack.
Chen Zhongwei, a native of Lujiang, told Ouyang She that he wanted to go to Xiaoyu to surrender when Chunyu Lin came. Chen Zhong then rode a bicycle and a white horse and went to persuade Chunyu Lin to finally surrender.
The mountain people built a temple for Chen Zhongsheng in front of him and called him "Baima Chen Zhi".
Peng Chong, courtesy name Botong, was from Wan County, Nanyang County.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
父宏，哀帝时为渔阳太守，伟容貌，能饮饭，有威于边。
王莽居摄，诛不附己者，宏与何武、鲍宣并遇害。
宠少为郡吏，地皇中，为大司空士，从王邑东拒汉军。
到洛阳，闻同产弟在汉兵中，惧诛，即与乡人吴汉亡至渔阳，抵父时吏。
更始立，使谒者韩鸿持节徇北州，承制得专拜二千石已下。
鸿至蓟，以宠、汉并乡闾故人，相见欢甚，即拜宠偏将军，行渔阳太守事，汉安乐令。
及光武镇慰河北，至蓟，以书招宠。
宠具牛、酒，将上谒。
会王郎诈立，传檄燕、赵，遣将徇渔阳、上谷，急发其兵，北州众多疑惑，欲从之。
吴汉说宠从光武，语在《汉传》。
会上谷太守耿况亦使功曹寇恂诣宠，结谋共归光武。
宠乃发步骑三千人，以吴汉行长史，及都尉严宣、护军盖延、狐奴令王梁，与上谷军合而南，及光武于广阿。
光武承制封宠建忠侯，赐号大将军。
遂围邯郸，宠转粮食，前后不绝。
及王郎死，光武追铜马，北至蓟。
宠上谒，自负其功，意望甚高，光武接之不能满，以此怀不平。
光武知之，以问幽州牧朱浮。
浮对曰： 前吴汉北发兵时，大王遗宠以所服剑，又倚以为北道主人。
宠谓至当迎閤握手，交欢并坐。
translation: 
His father, Peng Hong, was the prefect of Yuyang during the reign of Emperor Ai. He had a majestic appearance, was good at drinking and eating, and was famous on the border.
When Wang Mang was taking pictures, he killed those who did not join him. Peng Hong, He Wu and Bao Xuan were killed together.
Peng Chong was a county official when he was young. During the reign of Emperor Wang Mang, he was a great Sikongshi and followed Wang Yi to the east to resist the Han army.
When he arrived in Luoyang, he heard that his mother and brother were in the Han army. He was afraid that they would kill him, so he fled to Yuyang with Wu Han, a fellow countryman, and returned to his father's old official position.
Gengshi was established, and Han Hong, a close servant, was sent to Beizhou with a talisman to declare that by the emperor's order, he could exclusively appoint officials with a price of less than two thousand stones.
When Han Ming arrived at Ji, he thought that Peng Chong and Wu Han were both from the same hometown. They were very happy after meeting each other and immediately worshiped Peng Chong as a partial general. Acting as the prefect of Yuyang and the magistrate of Anle County in Han Dynasty.
Guangwu comforted Hebei, and when he arrived at Ji, he used letters to attract favors.
Chong prepared the cow wine and prepared to pay homage.
It happened that Wang Lang pretended to stand up and sent a message to Yan and Zhao. He sent generals to plunder Yuyang and Shanggu and quickly sent out troops. The people in Beizhou were confused and prepared to follow Wang Lang.
Wu Han suggested that Peng Chong return to Guangwu, which was mentioned in the "Biography of Wu Han".
It happened that Geng Kuang, the governor of Shanggu, also sent Kou Xun, the meritorious Cao Cao, to Peng Chong to jointly plan to join Guangwu.
Peng Chong then marched with 3,000 men, led by Wu Han's governor Shi, the captain Yan Xuan, the guard Gai Yan, and the Hunu county magistrate Wang Liang. They joined forces with the Shanggu army and headed south, following Guangwu in Guang'a.
Emperor Guangwu Cheng made Peng Chong the Marquis of Jianzhong and gave him the title of General.
So he surrounded Handan and Peng Chong transferred grain continuously.
After Wang Lang died, Guangwu pursued the bronze horse as far north as Ji.
Peng Chong went to visit him, thinking that he had made great achievements and had high expectations. Guangwu was unable to meet his demands when he met him, so he felt resentful.
After Guangwu knew about it, he asked Youzhou Mu Zhufu about it.
Zhu Fu replied: When Wu and Han sent troops to the north, the king gave Peng Chong the sword and relied on him to be the master of the north.
Peng Chong thinks that when he comes, you should shake hands with him at the small door and sit down with him.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
今既不然，所以失望。 浮因曰： 王莽为宰衡时，甄丰旦夕入谋议，时人语曰： 夜半客，甄长伯。
及莽篡位后，丰意不平，卒以诛死。 光武大笑，以为不至于此。
及即位，吴汉、王梁，宠之所遣，并为三公，而宠独无所加，愈怏怏不得志。
叹曰： 我功当为王；但尔者，陛下忘我邪？
是时，北州破散，而渔阳差完，有旧盐铁官，宠转以贸谷，积珍宝，益富强，朱浮与宠不相能，浮数谮构之。
建武二年春，诏征宠，宠意浮卖己，上疏愿与浮俱征。
又与吴汉、盖延等书，盛言浮枉状，固求同征。
帝不许，益以自疑。
而其妻素刚，不堪抑屈，固劝无受召。
宠又与常所亲信吏计议，皆怀怨于浮，莫有劝行者。
帝遣宠从弟子后兰卿喻之，宠因留子后兰卿，遂发兵反，拜署将帅，自将二万余人攻朱浮于蓟，分兵徇广阳、上谷、右北平。
又自与耿况俱有重功，而恩赏并薄，数遣使要诱况。况不受，辄斩其使。
translation: 
That's not the case now, so he's disappointed. Zhu Fu therefore said: When Wang Mang was the prime minister, Zhen Feng went to the mansion in the evening to discuss matters. People at the time said: "I am a guest in the middle of the night, Uncle Zhen."
After Wang Mang usurped the throne, Zhen Feng became dissatisfied and was eventually executed. Guangwu laughed, thinking that it would not be like this.
After Guangwu came to the throne, Wu Han and Wang Liang were both sent by Peng Chong, and they were all ranked among the three princes. However, Peng Chong was not promoted, and he was even more frustrated and frustrated.
He sighed: "I should be crowned king for my merits, but now it's like this. Has your majesty forgotten me?"
At this time, Beizhou was broken up, but Yuyang was slightly intact, with the old salt and iron officials. Peng Chong turned to the grain trade, accumulated a lot of treasures, and became more prosperous. Zhu Fu was at odds with Chong and framed him many times.
In the spring of the second year of Jianwu, the emperor issued an edict to recruit Peng Chong. Peng Chong realized that Zhu Fu had betrayed him and wrote a letter willing to be recruited at the same time as Zhu Fu.
He also wrote letters to Wu Han, Gai Yan and others, saying how Zhu Fu had falsely accused him, and insisted on joining the expedition.
The emperor didn't allow it, and Peng Chong became even more suspicious.
But his wife, who had always been strong and unyielding, firmly advised Peng Chong not to accept the call.
Peng Chong also discussed with the officials he usually trusted, but they all had grudges against Zhu Fu, and no one advised him to accept the call and leave.
The emperor sent Hou Lanqing, a disciple of Peng Chongtang, to inform him. Peng Chong detained his disciple Lanqing, so he launched an army to rebel and appointed him as a general. He led 20,000 people to attack Zhufu Yuji, and divided his troops to plunder Guangyang, Shanggu, and Youbeiping.
He also thought that he and Geng Kuang had great merits, but the rewards were meager. He sent envoys several times to lure Geng Kuang, but Geng Kuang refused to accept them and often beheaded his envoys.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
秋，帝使游击将军邓隆救蓟。
隆军潞南，浮军雍奴，遣吏奏状。
帝读檄，怒谓使吏曰： 营相去百里，其势岂可得相及？
比若还，北军必败矣。 宠果盛兵临河以拒隆，又别发轻骑三千袭其后，大破隆军。
浮远，遂不能救，引而去。
明年春，宠遂拔右北平、上谷数县。
遣使以美女缯彩赂遗匈奴，要结和亲。
单于使左南将军七八千骑，往来为游兵以助宠。
又南结张步及富平获索诸豪杰，皆与交质连衡。
遂攻拔蓟城，自立为燕王。
其妻数恶梦，又多见怪变，卜筮及望气者皆言兵当从中起。
宠疑子后兰卿质汉归，故不信之，使将兵居外，无亲于中。
五年春，宠斋，独在便室。
translation: 
In autumn, the emperor sent guerrilla general Deng Long to rescue Ji.
Deng Long garrisoned Lunan, and Zhu Fu garrisoned Yongnu, and sent officials to report the situation.
The emperor read the letter and said angrily to the envoys: The two camps are hundreds of miles apart, how can they be able to rescue them in time?
By the time you go back, the Northern Army will definitely be defeated. As expected, Peng Chong brought his army to the river to resist Deng Long, and then sent another three thousand light cavalry to attack behind him, defeating Deng Long's army.
Zhu Fu was far away and had no time to rescue him, so he led the army to retreat.
In the spring of the next year, Peng Chong attacked Youbeiping and Shanggu counties.
He sent envoys to bribe the Huns with beautiful women and colorful silk fabrics, hoping to make peace with them.
The Xiongnu Chanyu sent General Zuonan's seven or eight thousand cavalry as wanderers to assist Peng Chong.
Younan made friends with Zhang Bu and Fuping Huosuo heroes, and allied with them as pledges to unite with each other.
So he captured Jicheng and established himself as King of Yan.
Peng Chong's wife had nightmares several times and witnessed many strange changes. Fortune tellers and those who were watching the situation said that the mutiny must have occurred from within.
Peng Chong suspected that his son, Lan Qing, was a hostage who had returned from the Han Dynasty, so he didn't believe it and made him live outside with his troops, preventing him from getting close to the people inside.
In the spring of the fifth year of Jianwu, Peng Chong fasted and lived alone in the toilet.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
苍头子密等三人因宠卧寐，共缚着床，告外吏云： 大王斋禁，皆使吏休。 伪称宠命教，收缚奴婢，各置一处。
又以宠命呼其妻。
妻入，大惊。
宠急呼曰： 趣为诸将军办装。 于是两奴将妻入取宝物，留一奴守宠。
宠谓守奴曰： 若小儿，我素爱也，今为子密所迫劫耳。
解我缚，当以女珠妻汝，家中财物皆与若。 小奴意欲解之，视户外，见子密听其语，遂不敢解。
于是收金玉衣物，至宠所装之，被马六匹，使妻缝两缣囊。
昏夜后，解宠手，令作记告城门将军云： 今遣子密等至子后兰卿所，速开门出，勿稽留之。 书成，即斩宠及妻头，置囊中，便持记驰出城，因以诣阙。
封为不义侯。
明旦，閤门不开，官属逾墙而入，见宠尸，惊怖。
其尚书韩立等共立宠子午为王，以子后兰卿为将军。
国师韩利斩午首，诣征虏将军祭遵降。
夷其宗族。
translation: 
Because Peng Chong fell asleep, Cang Touzi Mi and three other people tied him to the bed together and announced to the officials outside: "The king is fasting, and all the officials are going to rest." He also pretended to be Peng Chong's order and taught him to pack up and tie up all the slaves and put them in their own place.
He also called his wife by Peng Chong's order.
When his wife came in, she was shocked.
Peng Chong hurriedly called out: "Hurry up and get decorative treasures for these generals." So the two slaves followed Chong's wife to the inner room to collect the treasures, leaving one family of slaves to guard Peng Chong.
Peng Chong said to Shounu: I have always loved you, child, but you were coerced by Zi Mi.
If you untie me, I will marry my daughter Pengzhu to you and give you all my property. Xiaonu wanted to rescue him, but when he looked outside, he saw that Zimi had heard Peng Chong's words and did not dare to untie him.
So he packed up his gold and jade clothes, packed them at Peng Chong's residence, prepared six horses, and asked his wife to sew two parcels.
After dark, he untied Peng Chong's hand and ordered him to tell the city gate general in his own handwriting: "I am sending Zi Mi to the residence of Lan Qing, the queen of the family. Open the door quickly and let them out. Don't stay." After writing, he beheaded Peng Chong and his wife, put them in a bag, and immediately left the city with the note to pay homage to Guangwu.
He was named Unjust Marquis.
Early the next morning, the door was tightly closed, and the officials climbed in through the wall. They were shocked and horrified when they saw Peng Chong's body.
His minister Han Li and others jointly established Peng Chong's son Peng Wu as king, and his son Lan Qing as general.
Han Li, the national counselor, beheaded Peng Wu's head and took him to the place where General Zhenglu was offering sacrifices to surrender.
Peng Chong's clan was wiped out.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
卢芳字君期，安定三水人入，居左谷中。
王莽时，天下咸思汉德，芳由是诈自称武帝曾孙刘文伯。
曾祖母匈奴谷蠡浑邪王之姊为武帝皇后，生三子。
遭江充之乱，太子诛，皇后坐死，中子次卿亡之长陵，小子回卿逃于左谷。
霍将军立次卿，迎回卿。
回卿不出，因居左谷，生子孙卿，孙卿生文伯。
常以是言诳惑安定间。
王莽末，乃与三水属国羌胡起兵。
更始至长安，征芳为骑都尉，使镇抚安定以西。
更始败，三水豪杰共计议，以芳刘氏子孙，宜承宗庙，乃共立芳为上将军、西平王，使使与西羌、匈奴结和亲。
单于曰： 匈怒本与汉约为兄弟。
后匈奴中衰，呼韩邪单于归汉，汉为发兵拥护，世世称臣。
translation: 
Lu Fang, whose courtesy name was Junqi, was from Sanshui County, Anding County, and lived in Zuoguzhong.
During the reign of Wang Mang, everyone in the world missed Han De, so Lu Fang falsely claimed that she was Liu Wenbo, the great-grandson of Emperor Wu.
It is said that the sister of the great-grandmother Hunxie King of Xiongnu Guli was the Empress of Emperor Wu and gave birth to three sons.
During the Jiang Chong Rebellion, the prince was killed, the queen was convicted and died, the middle son Ciqing fled to Changling, and the boy Huiqing fled to Zuogu.
General Huo made him a second minister and welcomed him back.
Hui Qing could not leave, so he lived in Zuogu and gave birth to a son, Sun Qing, who had a son, Wen Bo.
Lu Fang often used these words to deceive and confuse Anding.
At the end of Wang Mang's reign, he started an army with the Qiang and Hu from the state of Sanshui.
Gengshi arrived in Chang'an and recruited Lu Fang as the cavalry captain to calm him and pacify the west of Anding.
After the failure of Gengshi, the heroes of Sanshui jointly decided that Lu Fang was a descendant of the Liu family and should inherit the ancestral temple. So they jointly appointed Lu Fang as the general and king of Xiping, and sent envoys to make peace with the Western Qiang and Xiongnu.
Shanyu said: The Xiongnu and the Han were originally brothers.
Later, when the Xiongnu weakened, Huhanxie Shanyu surrendered to the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty sent troops to protect him, and the Shanyu became a vassal for all generations.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
今汉亦中绝，刘氏来归我，亦当立之，令尊事我。 乃使句林王将数千骑迎芳，芳与兄禽、弟程俱入匈奴。
单于遂立芳为汉帝。
以程为中郎将，将胡骑还入安定。
初，五原人李兴、随昱，朔方人田飒，代郡人石鲔、闵堪，各起兵自称将军。
建武四年，单于遣无楼且渠王入五原塞，与李兴等和亲，告兴欲令芳还汉地为帝。
五年，李兴、闵堪引兵至单于庭迎芳，与俱入塞，都九原县。
掠有五原、朔方、云中、定襄、雁门五郡，并置守令，与胡通兵，侵苦北边。
六年，芳将军贾览将胡骑击杀代郡太守刘兴。
芳后以事诛其五原太守李兴兄弟，而其朔方太守田飒、云中太守桥扈恐惧，叛芳，举郡降，光武令领职如故。
后大司马吴汉、骠骑大将军杜茂数击芳，并不克。
十二年，芳与贾览共攻云中，久不下，其将随昱留守九原，欲胁芳降。
芳知羽翼外附，心膂内离，遂弃辎重，与十余骑亡入匈奴，其众尽归随昱。
昱乃随使者程恂诣阙。拜昱为五原太守，封镌胡侯，昱弟宪武进侯。
十六年，芳复入居高柳，与闵堪兄林使使请降。
乃立芳为代王，堪为代相，林为代太傅，赐缯二万匹，因使和集匈奴。
芳上疏谢曰： 臣芳过托先帝遗体，弃在边陲。社稷遭王莽废绝，以是子孙之忧，所宜共诛，故遂西连羌戎，北怀匈奴。
单于不忘旧德，权立救助，是时兵革并起，往往而在。
臣非敢有所贪觊，期于奉承宗庙，兴立社稷，是以久僣号位，十有余年，罪宜万死。
translation: 
Now that Han Zuo has been defeated, and the Liu family has returned to me, I should also establish him and let him respect me. So he sent King Julin to lead thousands of horses to meet Lu Fang. Lu Fang, his brother Lu Qin, and his brother Lu Cheng all went to the Xiongnu.
The Chanyu established Lu Fang as Emperor of the Han Dynasty.
With Lu Cheng as the Zhonglang general, he led the Huns cavalry back to Anding.
At first, Li Xing and Sui Yu from Wuyuan, Tian Sa from Shuofang, and Shi Tun and Min Kan from Daijun each raised their own troops and called themselves generals.
In the fourth year of Jianwu, Shanyu sent King Wulou Qiequ to Wuyuan fortress to make peace with Li Xing and others, and told Li Xing that he wanted to make Lu Fang return to the Han Dynasty and become the emperor of the Han Dynasty.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Li Xing and Min Kan led troops to the Shanyu Courtyard to welcome Lu Fang, and they entered the fortress together and made Jiuyuan County their capital.
The five counties of Wuyuan, Shuofang, Yunzhong, Dingxiang and Yanmen were plundered. They all set up prefectures and magistrates, and fought with the Xiongnu. The northern frontier was invaded and suffered.
In the sixth year of Jianwu, Lu Fang's general Jia Lan led Hu Qi to kill Liu Xing, the prefect of Daijun.
Lu Fang later executed the brothers Li Xing, the prefect of Wuyuan, so that Tian Sa, the prefect of Shuofang, and Qiao Hu, the prefect of Yunzhong, were frightened, rebelled against Lu Fang, and surrendered with the whole county. Guangwu ordered them to remain the prefects of the original county as before.
Later, Grand Sima Wu Han and Hussar General Du Mao attacked Lu Fang several times, but failed to conquer it.
In the twelfth year of Jianwu's reign, Lu Fang and Jia Lan jointly attacked Yunzhong, but could not capture it for a long time. Their general Sui Yu stayed in Jiuyuan, hoping to force Lu Fang to surrender.
Lu Fang knew that his subordinates were affiliated with the Han Dynasty and that their confidants were rebelling from within, so he abandoned his baggage and fled to the Xiongnu with more than ten cavalry. All his subordinates joined Sui Yu.
Sui Yu then went to the capital with his envoy Cheng Xun. Emperor Guangwu worshiped Sui Yu as the governor of Wuyuan, granted him the title of Marquis of Hu, and followed his younger brother Sui Xian as the Marquis of Wujin.
In the 16th year of Jianwu's reign, Lu Fang returned to Gaoliu County and sent an envoy to Min Kan's brother Min Lin to request his surrender.
The emperor then appointed Lu Fang as the acting king, Min Kan as the acting prime minister, and Min Lin as the acting Taifu. He gave him 20,000 pieces of silk, so that he could live in peace with the Xiongnu.
Lu Fang Shangshu Xie En said: My minister Lu Fang entrusted me with the late emperor's body, which was abandoned at the border. The Han Dynasty Sheji was abolished by Wang Mang. This is the worry of the descendants of the Liu family. They should rise up and kill the national traitors together. Therefore, I am connected with the Qiang Rong in the west and the Xiongnu in the north.
The Shanyu does not forget his old virtues, and he has the right to appoint me to help him. At that time, there were wars and revolutions everywhere.
I dare not be greedy and covet, but only hope to flatter the ancestral temple and establish the state. Therefore, I have usurped the title of Han Emperor for more than ten years. This is a crime worthy of death.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
陛下圣德高明，躬率众贤，海内宾服，惠及殊俗。
以胏附之故，赦臣芳罪，加以仁恩，封为代王，使备北藩。
无以报塞重责，冀必欲和辑匈奴，不敢遗余力，负恩贷。
谨奉天子玉玺，思望阙庭。 诏报芳朝明年正月。
其冬，芳入朝，南及昌平，有诏止，令更朝明岁。
芳自道还，忧恐，乃复背叛，遂反，与闵堪、闵林相攻连月。
匈妈遣数百骑迎芳及妻子出塞。
论曰：传称 盛德必百世祀 ，孔子曰 宽则得众 。夫能得众心，则百世不忘矣。
观更始之际，刘氏之遗恩余烈，英雄岂能抗之哉！
然则知高祖、孝文之宽仁，结于人心深矣。
周人之思邵公，爱其甘棠，又况其子孙哉！
刘氏之再受命，盖以此乎！
若数子者，岂有国之远图哉！
因时扰攘，苟瓷纵而已耳，然犹以附假宗室，能掘强岁月之间。观其智略，固无足以惮汉祖，发其英灵者也。
translation: 
Your Majesty has great virtues and virtues. He personally leads the virtuous people. He surrenders to you at home and his favor extends to distant places.
For the sake of relatives, forgive my sins, show me kindness, make me acting king, and order me to guard the northern border.
There is no way to repay the heavy responsibility, but I hope that I can live in harmony with the Xiongnu to live up to the divine grace.
I would like to dedicate the emperor's jade seal to worship in the palace. The imperial edict ordered Lu Fang to enter the court in the first month of the next year.
In the winter of this year, Lu Fang entered the court and went south to Changping County. He was issued an edict to stop his journey and ordered him to come back next year.
Lu Fang had no choice but to return where he was. Feeling depressed and frightened, he betrayed him again and fought against Min Kan and Min Lin for months.
The Huns sent hundreds of horses to welcome Lu Fang and his wife out of the fortress.
Lu Fang stayed among the Huns for more than ten years and died of illness. The historian commented: It is said that people with great virtues will last for generations. Confucius said: If you are tolerant, you will win people's hearts. If you can win people's hearts, you will not be forgotten for a hundred generations.
We see that in the era of reform, the Liu family’s legacy remains. Who can resist a hero?
In this way, we can know how deep the kindness of Gaozu and Xiaowen is in people's hearts.
The people of the Zhou Dynasty missed Shaogong because Shaogong once heard about Gantang and did not cut it or cut it down, let alone his descendants.
This is probably why the Liu family was revived.
Do people like Wang, Liu, Zhang, Li, Peng, and Lu have the foresight to serve their country?
They were just taking advantage of the situation and doing random things, but they were able to show off their strength in the name of the fake Liu clan. Judging from their wisdom and strategy, it was not enough to scare the emperor of the Han Dynasty and inspire his heroic spirit!


