Chunk 0: 
original: 
陈胡公满者，虞帝舜之后也。
昔舜为庶人时，尧妻之二女，居于妫汭，其后因为氏姓，姓妫氏。
舜已崩，传禹天下，而舜子商均为封国。
夏后之时，或失或续。
至于周武王克殷纣，乃复求舜后，得妫满，封之于陈，以奉帝舜祀，是为胡公。
胡公卒，子申公犀侯立。
申公卒，弟相公皋羊立。
相公卒，立申公子突，是为孝公。
孝公卒，子慎公圉戎立。
慎公当周厉王时。
慎公卒，子幽公宁立。
幽公十二年，周厉王奔于彘。
二十三年，幽公卒，子厘公孝立。
厘公六年，周宣王即位。
三十六年，厘公卒，子武公灵立。
武公十五年卒，子夷公说立。
是岁，周幽王即位。
夷公三年卒，弟平公燮立。
平公七年，周幽王为犬戎所杀，周东徙。
秦始列为诸侯。
二十三年，平公卒，子文公圉立。
文公元年，取蔡女，生子佗。
十年，文公卒，长子桓公鲍立。
桓公二十三年，鲁隐公初立。
二十六年，卫杀其君州吁。
三十三年，鲁弑其君隐公。
三十八年正月甲戌己丑，桓公鲍卒。
桓公弟佗，其母蔡女，故蔡人为佗杀五父及桓公太子免而立佗ó，是为厉公。
桓公病而乱作，国人分散，故再赴。
厉公二年，生子敬仲完。
translation: 
Duke Hu of Chen was a descendant of Emperor Shun of Yu.
When Shun was still a commoner, Yao married his two daughters to him and lived in Guirui. His descendants took the name of this place as their surname and named them Gui.
After Shun's death, the empire was passed to Yu, and Shun's son Shangjun was made a prince.
In the late Xia Dynasty, the titles of Shun's descendants were intermittent.
After King Wu of Zhou defeated King Zhou of Yin, he once again searched for Shun's descendants. He found Guiman and sealed him in Chendi to worship Emperor Shun during his lifetime. This was Duke Hu.
Hu Gong died, and his son Shen Gong Xihou succeeded to the throne.
When Duke Shen died, his younger brother Xianggong Gaoyang succeeded him.
After the death of Xianggong, he appointed Duke Shen's son Tu as king, who was called Duke Xiao.
When Duke Xiao died, his son Shen Gong Yurong succeeded to the throne.
Duke Shen was in the reign of King Li of Zhou Dynasty.
Duke Shen died, and his son You Gong Ning succeeded to the throne.
In the 20th year of Duke You, King Li of Zhou fled to the Pigland.
In the twenty-third year, Duke You passed away, and his son Li Gongxiao succeeded him.
In the sixth year of Ligong, King Xuan of Zhou came to the throne.
In the thirty-sixth year, Li Gong died and his son Wu Gongling succeeded to the throne.
Duke Wu died in his fifteenth year and was succeeded by his son Yi Gong.
This year, King You of Zhou came to the throne.
Duke Yi died after reigning for three years, and his younger brother Ping Gongxie succeeded him.
In the seventh year of Ping Gong, King You of Zhou was killed by Quan Rong, and the capital of Zhou Dynasty moved eastward to Luoyi.
The state of Qin began to become a vassal state.
In the twenty-third year, Duke Ping died and his son Wen Gongyu succeeded to the throne.
In the first year of Emperor Wen's reign, he married a daughter of Cai Guo and gave birth to his son Tuo.
Ten years later, Duke Wen died and his eldest son, Duke Huan Bao, succeeded him.
In the twenty-third year of Duke Huan, Duke Yin of Lu came to the throne.
In the twenty-sixth year, the Wei people killed Wei Jun Zhouxu.
In the thirty-third year, the people of Lu killed Duke Yin of Lu.
In the thirty-eighth year of the first lunar month, on Jiaxu day or Jichou day, Duke Huan Bao passed away.
Since the mother of his younger brother Tuo was from Cai, the people of Cai killed their fifth father and Duke Huan's prince Fu for Tuo, and supported Tuo as his successor, Duke Li.
When Duke Huan was seriously ill, civil strife broke out and the people were dispersed, so another obituary was sent.
In the second year of Duke Li's reign, his son Jing Zhongwan was born.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
周太史过陈，陈厉公使以《周易》筮之，卦得《观》之《否》： 是为观国之光，利用宾于王。
此其代陈有国乎？
不在此，其在异国？
非此其身，在其子孙。
若在异国，必姜姓。
姜姓，太岳之后。
物莫能两大，陈衰，此其昌乎？
厉公取蔡女，蔡女与蔡人乱，厉公数如蔡淫。
七年，厉公所杀桓公太子免之三弟，长曰跃，中曰林，少曰杵臼，共令蔡人诱厉公以好女，与蔡人共杀厉公而立跃，是为利公。
利公者，桓公子也。
利公立五月卒，立中弟林，是为庄公。
庄公七年卒，少弟杵臼立，是为宣公。
宣公三年，楚武王卒，楚始强。
十七年，周惠王娶陈女为后。
translation: 
When Taishi of the Zhou Dynasty was passing through the state of Chen, Chen Ligong asked him to use the "Book of Changes" to predict his son's fortune. The hexagram he got was "Guan Gua" changed to "No Gua". Zhou Taishi said: This is called being able to see the glory of the country, which is conducive to being a guest of the emperor.
He will probably replace Chen Guo and take possession of the country for himself, right?
Not in Chen country, probably in another country?
This wouldn't happen in his own lifetime, but probably in the lifetime of his descendants, right?
If it happened in another country, it must be in the country with the surname Jiang.
Because the surname Jiang is a descendant of Taiyue.
Things cannot develop fully in both aspects. It will probably take until the fall of Chen State that his descendants will prosper, right?
Duke Li of Chen married a woman from the State of Cai, who committed adultery with a man from the State of Cai. Duke Chen Li also went to the State of Cai many times to have sex with other women.
In the seventh year, the three younger brothers of Prince Huan, who was killed by Duke Li, were named Yue, Lin, and Chujiu. They asked the Cai people to seduce Duke Li with beautiful women. Then the three of them killed Duke Li together with the Cai people, and Li Yue became the king, which is Duke Li.
Duke Li was the son of Duke Huan.
Duke Li died five months after he ascended the throne, and his second brother Lin succeeded him as Duke Zhuang.
Duke Zhuang died after reigning for seven years, and his youngest brother Chujiu succeeded him as Duke Xuan.
In the third year of Xuangong's reign, King Wu of Chu passed away, and the state of Chu began to become stronger.
In the seventeenth year, King Zhou Hui married Chen Jun's daughter as his queen.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
二十一年，宣公后有嬖姬生子款，欲立之，乃杀其太子御寇。
御寇素爱厉公子完，完惧祸及己，乃奔齐。
齐桓公欲使陈完为卿，完曰： 羁旅之臣，幸得免负檐，君之惠也，不敢当高位。
桓公使为工正。
齐懿仲欲妻陈敬仲，卜之，占曰： 是谓凤皇于飞，和鸣锵锵。
有妫之后，将育于姜。
五世其昌，并于正卿。
八世之后，莫之与京。
三十七年，齐桓公伐蔡，蔡败；南侵楚，至召陵，还过陈。
陈大夫辕涛涂恶其过陈，诈齐令出东道。
东道恶，桓公怒，执陈辕涛涂。
是岁，晋献公杀其太子申生。
四十五年，宣公卒，子款立，是为穆公。
穆公五年，齐桓公卒。
十六年，晋文公败楚师于城濮。
translation: 
In the twenty-first year, Duke Xuan later gave birth to a son named Ji, whom he favored. Duke Xuan wanted to make him the prince, so he killed the original prince Yu Kou.
The imperial bandit had always liked Li Gong's son Wan, but Wan was afraid that he would be harmed, so he fled to Qi.
Duke Huan of Qi wanted Chen Wan to be his minister. Chen Wan said: As a minister living abroad, I am lucky enough not to do hard work. It is the favor you have given me. I dare not hold a high official position.
Duke Huan asked him to be an official of work and integrity.
Qi Yizhong wanted to marry his daughter to Chen Wan, so he first performed a divination. The divination said: Husband and wife are like male and female phoenixes flying together, with loud and clear chirps.
The descendants of the surname Gui will thrive in the country of the surname Jiang.
After the Five Dynasties, he will be prosperous and his status will be on par with the chief ministers.
Eight generations later, no one can compare with it.
In the thirty-seventh year, Duke Huan of Qi attacked the State of Cai, and the State of Cai was defeated. The Qi soldiers took advantage of the situation and invaded the territory of the State of Chu, heading south to Zhaoling. The army passed by the State of Chen when returning to Qi.
Chen Guo's official Yuan Taotu suspected that the Qi army was harassing them across the border, so he deceived Duke Huan of Qi and said that it would be better to return to Qi via the east road along the coast.
The road to the east was very dangerous. When Duke Huan of Qi learned the truth, he was furious and had Yuan Taotu arrested.
This year, Duke Xian of Jin forced his own prince Shen Sheng to death.
Forty-five years later, Duke Xuan died, and his son Qian succeeded him as Duke Mu.
In the fifth year of Duke Mu, Duke Huan of Qi passed away.
In the 16th year, Duke Wen of Jin defeated the Chu army in Chengpu.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
是岁，穆公卒，子共公朔立。
共公六年，楚太子商臣弑其父成王代立，是为穆王。
十一年，秦穆公卒。
十八年，共公卒，子灵公平国立。
灵公元年，楚庄王即位。
六年，楚伐陈。
十年，陈及楚平。
十四年，灵公与其大夫孔宁、仪行父皆通于夏姬，衷其衣以戏于朝。
泄冶谏曰： 君臣淫乱，民何效焉？
灵公以告二子，二子请杀泄冶，公弗禁，遂杀泄冶。
十五年，灵公与二子饮于夏氏，公戏二子曰： 征舒似汝。
二子曰： 亦似公。
征舒怒。
灵公罢酒出，征舒伏弩厩门射杀灵公。
孔宁、仪行父皆奔楚，灵公太子午奔晋。
征舒自立为陈侯。
征舒，故陈大夫也。
夏姬，御叔之妻，舒之母也。
成公元年冬，楚庄王为夏征舒杀灵公，率诸侯伐陈。
谓陈曰： 无惊，吾诛征舒而已。
已诛征舒，因县陈而有之，群臣毕贺。
申叔时使于齐来还，独不贺。
translation: 
In this year, Chen Mugong died, and his son Gong Gongshuo succeeded to the throne.
In the sixth year of Duke Gong of Chen, Shang Chen, the crown prince of Chu, killed his father, King Cheng of Chu, and established himself as king, King Mu of Chu.
In the eleventh year, Duke Mu of Qin passed away.
In the eighteenth year, Gonggong Chen passed away and his son Lingping Guo succeeded to the throne.
In the first year of Chen Ling, King Zhuang of Chu came to the throne.
In the sixth year, Chu State conquered Chen State.
In ten years, the state of Chen made peace with the state of Chu.
In the fourteenth year, Chen Linggong, Kong Ning and Yi Xingfu, Chen Guo's officials, all committed adultery with Xia Ji, and even wore Xia Ji's clothes to make fun of in court.
The doctor Xieye advised: "The king and ministers are so promiscuous, how can the people follow their example?"
Chen Linggong told Kong Ning and Yi Xingfu this. They asked to kill Xie Zhi, but Chen Linggong did not stop them, so they killed Xie Zhi.
In the fifteenth year, Chen Linggong, Kong Ning and Yi Xingfu drank and had fun at Xia Ji's house. Chen Linggong joked to the two of them: Xia Zhengshu looks like you.
The two retorted, "He looks like you too."
Xia Zhengshu was very angry after hearing this.
After Linggong came out after drinking, Xia Zhengshu hid at the door of the stable and shot Linggong with an arrow.
Kong Ning and Yi Xingfu were so frightened that they fled to Chu State, and Ling Gong Prince Wu also fled to Jin State.
Xia Zhengshu established himself as Marquis of Chen.
Xia Zhengshu used to be a doctor of Chen State.
Xia Ji is the wife of Uncle Yu and the mother of Xia Zhengshu.
In the winter of the first year of Chen Chenggong, King Zhuang of Chu led the troops of the princes to attack Chen on the grounds that Xia Zhengshu had killed Chen Linggong.
And he said to Chen Guoren: Don't be afraid, I just want to kill Xia Zhengshu.
However, after killing Xia Zhengshu, he took advantage of the situation to annex Chen State and occupied it as a county of Chu State. All the officials of Chu State congratulated King Zhuang of Chu for this.
At this time, Uncle Shen came back from Qi as an envoy and did not express his congratulations.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
庄王问其故，对曰： 鄙语有之，牵牛径人田，田主夺之牛。
径则有罪矣，夺之牛，不亦甚乎？
今王以征舒为贼弑君，故征兵诸侯，以义伐之，已而取之，以利其地，则后何以令于天下！
是以不贺。
庄王曰： 善。
乃迎陈灵公太子午于晋而立之，复君陈如故，是为成公。
孔子读史记至楚复陈，曰： 贤哉楚庄王！
轻千乘之国而重一言。
八年，楚庄王卒。
二十九年，陈倍楚盟。
三十年，楚共王伐陈。
是岁，成公卒，子哀公弱立。
楚以陈丧，罢兵去。
哀公三年，楚围陈，复释之。
二十八年，楚公子围弑其君郏敖自立，为灵王。
translation: 
King Zhuang of Chu asked him why he was like this, and Uncle Shen replied: As the saying goes, someone takes a cow to take a shortcut and tramples on other people's crops. The owner of the field chases him and snatches the cow back to him.
It is indeed sinful to take a shortcut and trample on someone's field, but isn't it too much to take his cattle away because of this?
Now the king regards Xia Zhengshu's killing of the king as unjust, so he conscripted the troops of the princes to attack Xia Zhengshu to uphold justice. However, after the incident, he occupied Chen State and coveted other people's land. How can he command the world in the future?
So I don't congratulate you.
After hearing this, King Zhuang of Chu said: Well said!
So the crown prince Guiwu who brought back Chen Linggong from Jin State was made Lord of Chen, and he governed Chen State as in the past. He was Chen Chenggong.
When Confucius was reading history, he saw a passage in which Chu State restored sovereignty to Chen State, and he said: King Zhuang of Chu is truly a virtuous man.
He despises the kingdom of a thousand chariots but values ​​a helpful word.
In the eighth year, King Zhuang of Chu passed away.
In the twenty-ninth year, Chen State betrayed its alliance with Chu State.
In the 30th year, the king of the Communist Party of Chu conquered the state of Chen.
In this year, Chen Chenggong died, and his son Ai Gong weakly succeeded to the throne.
The king of Chu dismissed his troops and returned home because of the funeral of Chen Guo.
In the third year of Ai Gong's reign, Chu soldiers surrounded Chen State and later spared Chen State.
In the twenty-eighth year, the princes of Chu surrounded and killed King Jia Ao of Chu and established himself as King of Chu, namely King Ling of Chu.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
三十四年，初，哀公娶郑，长姬生悼太子师，少姬生偃。
二嬖妾，长妾生留，少妾生胜。
留有宠哀公，哀公属之其弟司徒招。
哀公病，三月，招杀悼太子，立留为太子。
哀公怒，欲诛招，招发兵围守哀公，哀公自经杀。
招卒立留为陈君。
四月，陈使使赴楚。
楚灵王闻陈乱，乃杀陈使者，使公子弃疾发兵伐陈，陈君留奔郑。
九月，楚围陈。
十一月，灭陈。
使弃疾为陈公。
招之杀悼太子也，太子之子名吴，出奔晋。
晋平公问太史赵曰： 陈遂亡乎？
对曰： 陈，颛顼之族。
陈氏得政于齐，乃卒亡。
自幕至于瞽瞍ǒ，无违命。
舜重之以明德。
至于遂，世世守之。
及胡公，周赐之姓，使祀虞帝。
translation: 
In the thirty-fourth year, at first, Duke Ai of Chen married a wife from the state of Zheng. The eldest concubine gave birth to Crown Prince Shi, and the shao concubine gave birth to her son Yan.
Duke Ai also had two favored concubines. The eldest concubine gave birth to a son named Liu, and the younger concubine gave birth to a son named Sheng.
Duke Ai loved Liu the most and entrusted him to his younger brother Situ Zhao to take care of him.
After Duke Ai fell ill, in March, Zhao killed Prince Mourning and made Liu Liu the crown prince.
Duke Ai was very angry and wanted to kill Zhao, so he sent troops to surround Duke Ai. Duke Ai hanged himself to death.
The final move was to make Liuli the king.
In April, Chen State sent envoys to Chu State to report his death.
When King Ling of Chu heard that Chen was in civil strife, he killed Chen's envoys and sent his son Qiji to raise troops to conquer Chen. Chen Junliu fled to Zheng.
In the ninth month, Chu soldiers surrounded Chen.
In November, Chen Guo was destroyed.
The prince of Chu was ordered to give up his illness and become the Duke of Chen.
When the prince was killed, his son, named Wu, fled and went to Jin.
Duke Ping of Jin asked Taishi Zhao: Is Chen really going to perish?
Taishi Zhao replied: Chen Guo is a descendant of Zhuan Xu.
The Chen family will eventually perish when they gain political power in Qi.
The ancestors of Chen State from Mu to Gushang did not disobey the destiny.
Shun paid great attention to promoting virtue.
When Sui arrived, he abided by his way from generation to generation.
During the reign of Duke Hu, the Emperor of Zhou gave him a surname and ordered him to worship Emperor Shun of Yu.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
且盛德之后，必百世祀。
虞之世未也，其在齐乎？
楚灵王灭陈五岁，楚公子弃疾弑灵王代立，是为平王。
平王初立，欲得和诸侯，乃求故陈悼太子师之子吴，立为陈侯，是为惠公。
惠公立，探续哀公卒时年而为元，空籍五岁矣。
十年，陈火。
十五年，吴王僚使公子光伐陈，取胡、沈而去。
二十八年，吴王阖é闾ǘ与子胥败楚入郢。
是年，惠公卒，子怀公柳立。
怀公元年，吴破楚，在郢，召陈侯。
陈侯欲往，大夫曰： 吴新得意；楚王虽亡，与陈有故，不可倍。
怀公乃以疾谢吴。
四年，吴复召怀公。怀公恐，如吴。
吴怒其前不往，留之，因卒吴。
陈乃立怀公之子越，是为愍公。
translation: 
Moreover, the descendants of Shengde's emperors will surely be passed down to a hundred generations.
The lineage of Yu and Shun has not yet reached a hundred generations, maybe it will continue to develop in Qi State?
In the fifth year after King Ling of Chu destroyed Chen, Prince Qiji of Chu State killed King Ling and established himself as King of Chu, that is, King Ping.
King Ping had just ascended the throne, and wanted to be friendly and gain the support of the princes, so he found Wu, the son of the former crown prince of Chen Guo, and made him the Marquis of Chen, which is Chen Huigong.
After Hui Gong ascended the throne, he dated back to the year of Ai Gong's death and took over the Chen Guoji as the first year. At this time, Hui Gong's reign was actually five years in vain.
In the tenth year of Duke Hui's reign, a fire broke out in the state of Chen.
In the fifteenth year, King Liao of Wu ordered Prince Guang to attack the state of Chen, capture Hu and Shen, and then return.
In the twenty-eighth year, King Wu Helu and Wu Zixu defeated Chu and invaded the capital of Ying.
In this year, Chen Huigong died, and his son Huai Gong Liu succeeded him.
In the first year of Huai Gong, after King Wu conquered Chu, he stationed himself in Yingdu and summoned Chen Huai Gong.
Duke Huai wanted to go, but Chen Guo's doctor said: The king of Wu has been very satisfied recently, but although the king of Chu escaped, he was an old friend of Chen and could not betray the friendship between Chen and Chu.
Duke Huai declined the meeting on the pretext of being ill.
In the fourth year, King Wu summoned Duke Huai again. Duke Huai was afraid and had to go to Wu.
The king of Wu was angry that Chen Huaigong did not come last time, so he detained him and finally died in the state of Wu.
Chen Guo then appointed Yue, the son of Duke Huai, as king, who was named Duke Min.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
愍公六年，孔子适陈。
吴王夫差伐陈，取三邑而去。
十三年，吴复来伐陈，陈告急楚，楚昭王来救，军于城父，吴师去。
是年，楚昭王卒于城父。
时孔子在陈。
十五年，宋灭曹。
十六年，吴王夫差伐齐，败之艾陵，使人召陈侯。
陈侯恐，如吴。
楚伐陈。
二十一年，齐田常弑其君简公。
二十三年，楚之白公胜杀令尹子西、子綦，袭惠王。
叶公攻败白公，白公自杀。
二十四年，楚惠王复国，以兵北伐，杀陈愍公，遂灭陈而有之。
是岁，孔子卒。
杞东楼公者，夏后禹之后苗裔也。
殷时或封或绝。
周武王克殷纣，求禹之后，得东楼公，封之于杞，以奉夏后氏祀。
东楼公生西楼公，西楼公生题公，题公生谋娶公。
谋娶公当周厉王时。
translation: 
In the sixth year of Min Gong's reign, Confucius arrived in the state of Chen.
King Wu Fu Chai attacked Chen State and returned after capturing three cities.
In the thirteenth year, the State of Wu came to attack Chen State again. The State of Chen asked the State of Chu for help. King Zhao of Chu led troops to rescue him. He garrisoned Chengfu, and the Wu army withdrew.
In this year, King Zhao of Chu died in Chengfu.
At that time Confucius was still in the state of Chen.
In the fifteenth year, Song State destroyed Cao State.
In the 16th year, King Wu Fuchai launched a northern expedition to Qi State and defeated the Qi army in Ailing. He also sent someone to summon Chen Hou.
Chen Minggong was afraid and went to the state of Wu.
Therefore, Chu State conquered Chen State.
In the twenty-first year, Tian Chang, the official of Qi State, killed Duke Jian of Qi State.
In the twenty-third year, Bai Gongsheng of Chu State killed his commanders Zixi and Ziqi, and attacked King Hui of Chu.
Ye Gong of Chu State defeated Bai Gong, and Bai Gong committed suicide.
In the twenty-fourth year, King Hui of Chu regained his kingdom, raised his troops in the Northern Expedition, killed Duke Min of Chen, and then destroyed the state of Chen and made it the capital of Chu.
This year, Confucius died.
Duke Donglou of Qi State was a descendant of Dayu of Xia Dynasty.
During the Shang Dynasty, its feudal status was intermittent.
After King Wu of Zhou defeated Yin Zhou, he searched for Yu's descendants. He found Donglou Gong and sealed him in Qi to offer sacrifices to the Xiahou clan.
Gong Donglou gave birth to a son, Gong Xilou, Gong Xilou gave birth to a son named Gong Ti, and Gong Ti gave birth to a son who planned to marry Gong Gong.
It was during the era of King Li of Zhou that the Duke of Suyuan was in power.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
谋娶公生武公。
武公立四十七年卒，子靖公立。
靖公二十三年卒，子共公立。
共公八年卒，子德公立。
德公十八年卒，弟桓公姑容立。
桓公十七年卒，子孝公匄立。
孝公十七年卒，弟文公益姑立。
文公十四年卒，弟平公郁立。
平公十八年卒，子悼公成立。
悼公十二年卒，子隐公乞立。
七月，隐公弟遂弑隐公自立，是为厘公。
厘公十九年卒，子愍公维立。
愍公十五年，楚惠王灭陈。
十六年，愍公弟阏路弑愍公代立，是为哀公。
哀公立十年卒，愍公子敕立，是为出公。
出公十二年卒，子简公春立。
立一年，楚惠王之四十四年，灭杞。
杞后陈亡三十四年。
translation: 
She plans to marry Gong Gong and give birth to his son Wu Gong.
Duke Wu died in his forty-seventh year and was succeeded by his son Duke Jing.
In the twenty-third year of Duke Jing's reign, his son Gong Gong succeeded him.
Duke Gong died after eight years in office and was succeeded by his son De Gong.
Duke De died in the eighteenth year of his reign, and his younger brother Huan Gonggu Rong succeeded him.
Duke Huan died in the seventeenth year of his reign and was succeeded by his younger brother Xiao Gong.
Xiaogong died in the seventeenth year of his reign, and his younger brother Wen Gongyigu succeeded him.
Duke Wen died in the fourteenth year of his reign, and his younger brother Ping Gongyu succeeded him.
Ping Gong died in the eighteenth year of his reign, and his son Yu Gongcheng succeeded him.
Duke Yao passed away in the 12th year of his reign, and his son Yin Gong begged to succeed him.
In the seventh month, Yin Gong's younger brother killed Yin Gong and established himself as king, namely Li Gong Gong.
Li Gong died in the 19th year of his reign, and his son Li Gongwei succeeded him.
In the fifteenth year of Duke Min's reign, King Hui of Chu destroyed the state of Chen.
In the sixteenth year, Min Gong's younger brother Quelu killed Min Gong and established himself as king, namely Ai Gong.
Duke Ai died after reigning for ten years, and Duke Min's son succeeded him by imperial decree.
Chugong died after reigning for 12 years, and his son Jian Gongchun succeeded him.
One year after Duke Jian came to the throne, which was the forty-fourth year of King Hui of Chu, Chu destroyed Qi State.
Qi State fell thirty-four years later than Chen State.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
杞小微，其事不足称述。舜之后，周武王封之陈，至楚惠王灭之，有世家言。禹之后，周武王封之杞，楚惠王灭之，有世家言。
契之后为殷，殷有本纪言。
殷破，周封其后于宋，齐愍王灭之，有世家言。
伯翳之后，至周平王时封为秦，项羽灭之，有本纪言。
垂、益、夔í、龙，其后不知所封，不见也。
右十一人者，皆唐虞之际名有功德臣也；其五人之后皆至帝王，余乃为显诸侯。
滕、薛、驺，夏、殷、周之间封也，小，不足齿列，弗论也。
周武王时，侯伯尚千余人。
及幽、厉之后，诸侯力攻相并。
江、黄、胡、沈之属，不可胜数，故弗采着于传云。
translation: 
The descendants of Shun were granted the title of Chen by King Wu of Zhou, but were exterminated by King Hui of Chu. This is recorded in "Aristocratic Family". After Yu's descendants, King Wu of Zhou granted him the title of Qi, and King Hui of Chu destroyed it, which is recorded in "Aristocratic Family".
The descendants of Qi are the Yin and Shang royal family, which are recorded in "Benji".
After the fall of the Yin Dynasty, the Zhou Dynasty granted its descendants to the Song Dynasty, and King Min of Qi destroyed the Song Dynasty, which is recorded in "Shijia".
The descendants of Hou Ji are the royal family of the Zhou Dynasty. King Qin Zhao destroyed the Zhou Dynasty, which is recorded in "Benji".
Some of Gaotao's descendants were sealed in the lands of Ying and Liu. King Chu Mu destroyed them, and there is no genealogical record. The descendants of Boyi were granted the title of Taigongwang in Qi during the reign of King Wu of Zhou Dynasty. The Chen family destroyed it, which is recorded in "Shijia".
Chui, Yi, Kui and Long, their descendants do not know where they were sealed, and no one has heard of them. The above eleven people were all famous ministers of merit and virtue during the reign of Yao and Shun; the descendants of five of them have been emperors, and the rest are famous princes.
Teng, Xue, and Zou were feudal states during the Xia, Shang, and Zhou dynasties. They were small and not worth mentioning, so they were not included in the list.
During the reign of King Wu of Zhou, there were more than a thousand people who were granted the title of marquis or uncle.
After King You of Zhou became King Li of Zhou, the princes used their strength to attack each other and annexed each other.
There are countless small countries such as Jiang, Huang, Hu, and Shen, so they are not recorded in historical biographies.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
太史公曰：舜之德可谓至矣！
禅位于夏，而后世血食者历三代。
及楚灭陈，而田常得政于齐，卒为建国，百世不绝，苗裔兹兹，有土者不乏焉。
至禹，于周则杞，微甚，不足数也。
楚惠王灭杞，其后越王句践兴。
translation: 
Tai Shigong said: Shun's morality has reached its extreme!
He abdicated the throne to Xia Yu, and his descendants could still enjoy sacrifices through the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties.
After the State of Chu destroyed the State of Chen, Tian Chang took over the power of the State of Qi. Finally, it was still a feudal state, which lasted for hundreds of generations, with prosperous descendants and many people who were granted land.
As for Yu, his descendants were the kings of Qi during the Zhou Dynasty. They were very weak and not worth mentioning.
After King Hui of Chu destroyed Qi, King Goujian of Yue, a descendant of Yu, revived.


