Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 7]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
刘焉袁术吕布刘焉字君郎，江夏竟陵人也，鲁恭王后也。
肃宗时，徙竟陵。
焉少任州郡，以宗室拜郎中。
去官居阳城山，精学教授。
举贤良方正，稍迁南阳太守、宗正、太常。
时，灵帝政化衰缺，四方兵寇，焉以为刺史威轻，既不能禁，且用非其人，辄增暴乱，乃建议改置牧伯，镇安方夏，清选重臣，以居其任。
焉乃阴求为交阯，以避时难。
议未即行，会益州刺史郗俭在政烦扰，谣言远闻，而并州刺史张懿、凉州刺史耿鄙并为寇贼所害，故焉议得用。
出焉为监军使者，领益州牧，太仆黄琬为豫州牧，宗正刘虞为幽州牧，皆以本秩居职。
州任之重，自此而始。
是时，益州贼马相亦自号 黄巾 ，合聚疲役之民数千人，先杀绵竹令，进攻雒县，杀郗俭，又击蜀郡、犍为，旬月之间，破坏三郡。
马相自称 天子 ，众至十余万人，遣兵破巴郡，杀郡守赵部。
州从事贾龙，先领兵数百人在犍为，遂纠合吏人攻相，破之，龙乃遣吏卒迎焉。
焉到，以龙为校尉，徙居绵竹。
抚纳离叛，务行宽惠，而阴图异计。
沛人张鲁，母有姿色，兼挟鬼道，往来焉家，遂任鲁以为督义司马，与别部司马张脩将兵掩杀汉中太守苏固，断绝斜谷，杀使者。
鲁既得汉中，遂复杀张脩而并其众。
焉欲立威刑以自尊大，乃托以佗事，杀州中豪强十余人，士民皆怨。
初平二年，犍为太守任岐及贾龙并反，攻焉。焉击破，皆杀之。
自此意气渐盛，遂造作乘舆车重千余乘。
translation: 
◆Liu Yanchuan, Liu Yan, courtesy name Junlang, was from Jingling, Jiangxia, and was a descendant of King Lu Gong.
During the reign of Emperor Suzong, the Liu family moved to Jingling.
When Liu Yan was young, he served in prefectures and counties, and was awarded the position of doctor because he was a member of the emperor's clan.
After leaving office, Liu Yan lived in Yangcheng Mountain, focusing on learning and teaching his disciples.
Later, he was recommended as a virtuous and upright person, and was gradually promoted to Nanyang Prefect, Zongzheng, and Taichang.
At that time, Emperor Ling's political education was in decline and there were military rebellions everywhere. Liu Yan believed that the power of the governor was small and he had no ability to stop it, and the people he appointed were incompetent, so the rebellions often increased. So he suggested that the governor should be appointed to control one side and carefully select ministers who hold important positions as shepherds.
Liu Yan secretly sought help from the governor of Jiaozhi to avoid the chaos at that time.
His suggestions were not implemented in time, but Xi Jian, the governor of Yizhou, was disturbing the people with his administration. Rumors spread far and wide, and Zhang Yi, the governor of Bingzhou, and Geng Bi, the governor of Liangzhou, were both killed by bandits, so Liu Yan's proposal was adopted.
Liu Yan was sent to serve as the envoy to supervise the army and lead the shepherd of Yizhou. Huang Wan, the imperial servant, served as the shepherd of Yuzhou, and Zongzheng Liu Yu served as the shepherd of Youzhou. They all served as the shepherd of the state with the salary of their original positions.
The importance of the status of the state pastor begins here.
At this time, Yizhou's thieves and horses also called themselves "Yellow Turbans", gathered thousands of people who were suffering from labor, first killed Mianzhu Ling, attacked Luo County, killed Xi Jian, and then attacked Shu County and Qianwei. Within a month, they captured and destroyed three counties.
Ma Xiang called himself the Son of Heaven and had a tribe of more than 100,000 people. Ma Xiang sent troops to conquer Bajun and killed Tangbu, the prefect of Bajun.
Jia Long, a minister of Yizhou, originally led hundreds of soldiers to garrison in Jianwei, so he gathered the officials and people to attack Ma Xiang and defeated him. Jia Long sent officials and soldiers to meet Liu Yan.
After Liu Yan took office, he appointed Jia Long as the school captain and moved him to Mianzhu.
Liu Yan comforted and sheltered those who escaped and rebelled, and tried his best to implement a policy of tolerance and kindness, but in his heart he planned to rebel.
Zhang Lu, a native of Pei State, had a beautiful mother, and was familiar with the myths of gods and ghosts. He had contacts with Liu Yan's family. Liu Yan appointed Zhang Lu as the governor of the Sima. He and other Sima Zhang Xiu led troops to kill Su Gu, the prefect of Hanzhong, by surprise. They cut off the Xie Valley and killed the envoys who came and went.
Zhang Lu had occupied Hanzhong, so he killed Zhang Xiu and merged his troops.
Liu Yan wanted to achieve his arrogance by establishing strict criminal laws, so he used other things as an excuse to kill more than a dozen powerful people in the state, which made the scholars and the people complain.
In the second year of Chuping, Jianwei governor Ren Qi and Jia Long rebelled together. They were defeated by Liu Yan and all the rebels were killed.
From then on, Liu Yan's spirit gradually became stronger and stronger, and he built the emperor's carriage and more than a thousand baggage vehicles.

summary:
summary line 0: Liu Yan, a descendant of King Lu Gong, served as a local official and later as Nanyang Prefect, Zongzheng, and Taichang. During Emperor Ling's reign, rebellions spread due to weak governors. Liu Yan proposed appointing powerful governors to control regions, a suggestion initially ignored but later adopted after several governors were killed. He was sent to lead Yizhou as shepherd. In Yizhou, he faced a rebellion led by Ma Xiang, who claimed to be the Son of Heaven, but it was suppressed by Jia Long. Liu Yan appointed Zhang Lu, who later seized Hanzhong and killed the prefect. Liu Yan grew arrogant, built imperial carriages, and killed powerful locals, causing resentment. After losing two sons in a failed plot, he died of illness. His son Liu Zhang succeeded him but lacked authority, leading to internal strife and rebellion. Liu Zhang eventually surrendered to Liu Bei after a siege, and died later.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
璋能闭隘养力，守案先图，尚可与岁时推移，而遽输利器，静受流斥，所谓羊质虎皮，见豺则恐，吁哉！
袁术字公路，汝南汝阳人，司空逢之子也。
少以侠气闻，数与诸公子飞鹰走狗，后颇折节。
举孝廉，累迁至河南尹、虎贲中郎将。
时，董卓将欲废立，以术为后将军。
术畏卓之祸，出奔南阳。
会长沙太守孙坚杀南阳太守张咨，引兵从术。
刘表上术为南阳太守，术又表坚领豫州刺史，使率荆、豫之卒，击破董卓于阳人。
术从兄绍因坚讨卓未反，远，遣其将会稽周昕夺坚豫州。
术怒，击昕走之。
绍议欲立刘虞为帝，术好放纵，惮立长君，托以公义不肯同，积此衅隙遂成。
乃各外交党援，以相图谋，术结公孙瓚，而绍连刘表。
豪桀多附于绍，术怒曰： 群竖不吾从，而从吾家奴乎！
又与公孙瓚书，云绍非袁氏子，绍闻大怒。
初平三年，术遣孙坚击刘表于襄阳，坚战死。
公孙瓚使刘备与术合谋共逼绍，绍与曹操会击，皆破之。
四年，术引军入陈留，屯封丘。
黑山余贼及匈奴於扶罗等佐术，与曹操战于匡亭，大败。
术退保雍丘，又将其余众奔九江，杀杨州刺史陈温而自领之，又兼称徐州伯。
李傕入长安，欲结术为援，乃授以左将军，假节，封阳翟侯。
初，术在南阳，户口尚数十百万，而不修法度，以抄掠为资，奢恣无猒，百姓患之。
又少见谶书，言 代汉者当涂高 ，自云名字应之。
又以袁氏出陈为舜后，以黄代赤，德运之次，遂有僭逆之谋。
又闻孙坚得传国玺，遂拘坚妻夺之。
兴平二年冬，天子播越，败于曹阳。
术大会群下，因谓曰： 今海内鼎沸，刘氏微弱。
translation: 
Liu Zhang was able to block the passes, accumulate strength, guard and govern the territory of his ancestors, and could persist as the years changed. However, he hurriedly handed over power and waited to be exiled and ostracized. He was really a so-called sheep in tiger skin. He was scared to death at the sight of a jackal. What a shame!
◆The biography of Yuan Shu, Yuan Shu, courtesy name Gongdao, was born in Ruyang, Runan, and was the son of Sikong Yuan Feng.
When he was young, he was famous for his chivalrous spirit, and he often went hunting with his young master buddies. Later, he changed a lot.
He was recommended as Xiaolian and was transferred to Henan Yin and Huben Zhonglang generals many times.
At that time, Dong Zhuo was preparing to change his position as emperor and appointed Yuan Shu as the post-general.
Yuan Shu was afraid of being involved in Dong Zhuo's troubles and ran to Nanyang.
It happened that Sun Jian, the governor of Changsha, killed Zhang Zi, the governor of Nanyang, and led his troops to obey Yuan Shu.
Liu Biao wrote a letter recommending Yuan Shu to be the governor of Nanyang. Yuan Shu also wrote a letter recommending Sun Jian to be the governor of Yuzhou. Sun Jian was asked to lead the troops in Jingzhou and Yuzhou and defeated Dong Zhuo in Yangren.
Yuan Shu's cousin Yuan Shao took advantage of the fact that Sun Jian had not returned from his crusade against Dong Zhuo and was far away, so he sent his general Zhou Xin to capture Sun Jian's Yuzhou.
Yuan Shu was very angry and beat Zhou Xin away.
Yuan Shao discussed making Liu Yu the emperor, but Yuan Shu liked to indulge and was afraid of making an older person emperor, so he refused to agree on the grounds of public opinion. When they got together, there was a gap between the two.
So the two of them each made friends as foreign aid to influence each other's ideas. Yuan Shu befriended Gongsun Zan, while Yuan Shao allied with Liu Biao.
Most of the heroes attached themselves to Yuan Shao. Yuan Shu got angry and said: "Are these princes not following me, but following my servants?"
He also wrote to Gongsun Zan, saying that Yuan Shao was not born to the Yuan family. Yuan Shao was furious when he found out.
In the third year of Chuping, Yuan Shu sent Sun Jian to attack Liu Biao in Xiangyang, and Sun Jian died in the battle.
Gongsun Zan wanted Liu Bei to conspire with Yuan Shu to force Yuan Shao, but under the joint attack of Yuan Shao and Cao Cao, they were all defeated.
In the fourth year, Ai Shu led his troops into Chenliu and stationed in Fengqiu.
The remaining bandits in Montenegro and the Xiongnu Yu Fuluo and others helped Yuan Shu and fought with Cao Cao in Kuangting, but they were defeated.
Yuan Shu withdrew his troops to defend Yongqiu, then led the remaining troops to Jiujiang, killed Chen Wen, the governor of Yangzhou, and became the governor of Yangzhou himself, also known as Xuzhou Bo.
Li Ji entered Chang'an and wanted to make friends with Yuan Shu as a foreign aid, so he appointed Yuan Shu as the general of the left. During the holiday, he made him the Marquis of Yangzhai.
At first, when Yuan Shu was in Nanyang, there were still hundreds of thousands of households and a population of several million. However, he did not pay attention to regulating the legal system. He relied on plundering to save money, was extravagant and indulgent, and was greedy. The people were disgusted with him.
When Yuan Shu was young, he saw a prophecy book that said that the one who replaced the Han Dynasty would be Dang Tu Gao, which meant that his name matched the prophecy book.
And because the Yuan family came from the state of Chen, they were descendants of Shun. Replacing red virtue with yellow virtue is in line with the order of operation of the five virtues, so he has the idea of ​​​​transgression and rebellion.
When he heard that Sun Jian had obtained the imperial seal, he imprisoned Sun Jian's wife to obtain the imperial seal.
In the winter of the second year of Xingping, the emperor was exiled and was defeated in Caoyang.
Yuan Shu gathered his subordinates and said to them: The current situation in the country is chaotic and chaotic, and the Liu family is weak.

summary:
summary line 1: Yuan Shu, son of Sikong Yuan Feng, was known for chivalry but later changed. He fled to Nanyang after Dong Zhuo's coup and allied with Sun Jian. Conflicts arose with his cousin Yuan Shao over leadership. Yuan Shu declared himself emperor in 197 CE, citing prophecies and his family's lineage. His rule was marked by extravagance and cruelty, leading to widespread discontent. After defeats by Cao Cao and Lu Bu, his army weakened, and he died in 199 CE, vomiting blood in despair. His family sought refuge with Sun Ce.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
布与傕战，败，乃将数百骑，以卓头系马鞍，走出武关，奔南阳。
布自恃杀卓，有德袁氏，遂恣兵抄掠。
术患之。布不安，复去从张杨于河内。
时李傕等购募求布急，杨下诸将皆欲图之。
布惧，谓杨曰： 与卿州里，今见杀，其功未必多。
不如生卖布，可大得傕等爵宠。
杨以为然。
有顷，布得走投袁绍，绍与布击张燕于常山。
燕精兵万余，骑数千匹。
布常御良马，号曰赤菟，能驰城飞堑，与其健将成廉、魏越等数十骑驰突燕阵，一日或至三四，皆斩首而出。
连战十余日，遂破燕军。
布既恃其功，更请兵于绍，绍不许，而将士多暴横，绍患之。
布不自安，因求还洛阳。
绍听之，承制使领司隶校尉，遣壮士送布而阴使杀之。
布疑其图己，乃使人鼓筝于帐中，潜自遁出。
夜中兵起，而布已亡。
绍闻，惧为患，募遣追之，皆莫敢逼，遂归张杨。
道经陈留，太守张邈遣使迎之，相待甚厚，临别把臂言誓。
邈字孟卓，东平人，少以侠闻。
初辟公府，稍迁陈留太守。
董卓之乱，与曹操共举义兵。
及袁绍为盟主，有骄色，邈正义责之。绍既怨邈，且闻与布厚，乃令曹操杀邈。
操不听，然邈心不自安。
兴平元年，曹操东击陶谦，令其将武阳人陈宫屯东郡。
宫因说邈曰： 今天下分崩，雄桀并起。君拥十万之众，当四战之地，抚剑顾眄，亦足以为人豪，而反受制，不以鄙乎！
今州军东征，其处空虚，吕布壮士，善虞无前，迎之共据兗州，观天下形势，俟时事变通，此亦从横一时也。
邈从之，遂与弟超及宫等迎布为兗州牧，据濮阳，郡县皆应之。
曹操闻而引军击布，累战，相持百余日。
是时，旱、蝗，少谷，百姓相食，布移屯山阳。
二年间，操复尽收诸城，破布于钜野，布东奔刘备。
邈诣袁术求救，留超将家属屯雍丘。
操围超数月，屠之，灭其三族。
邈未至寿春，为其兵所害。
时，刘备领徐州，居下邳，与袁术相拒于淮上。
术欲引布击备，乃与布书曰： 术举兵诣阙，未能屠裂董卓。
将军诛卓，为术报耻，功一也。
昔金元休南至封丘，为曹操所败。将军伐之，令术复明目于遐迩，功二也。
术生年以来，不闻天下有刘备，备乃举兵与术对战。
凭将军威灵，得以破备，功三也。
将军有三大功在术，术虽不敏，奉以死生。
translation: 
Lu Bu failed in the battle with Li Cui, so he led hundreds of cavalry, tied Dong Zhuo's head to the saddle, escaped from Wuguan, and rushed to Nanyang.
Yuan Shu treated Lu Bu very well, and Lu Bu relied on himself to kill Dong Zhuo. If you are kind to the Yuan family, you will indulge your subordinates in looting.
Yuan Shu had a headache, and Lu Bu felt uneasy, so he left Yuan Shu and went to Hanoi to join Zhang Yang.
At that time, Li Jie and others were very concerned about offering a reward for Lv Bu's capture, and Zhang Yang's generals were all plotting against Lv Bu.
Lu Bu was afraid and said to Zhang Yang: I am from the same hometown as you. If you kill me now, you may not get much credit.
It's better to sacrifice me alive, so that I can gain the title and favor of Li Ji and others.
Zhang Yang thought Lu Bu was right.
Soon, Lu Bu was able to escape and defected to Yuan Shao. Yuan Shao and Lu Bu attacked Zhang Yan in Changshan.
Zhang Yan had more than 10,000 elite soldiers and several thousand cavalry.
Lu Bu often rode a good horse named Red Rabbit that could leap over city walls and fly across trenches. He and his fierce generals Cheng Lian, Wei Yue and dozens of others rode to attack Zhang Yan's military formation. Sometimes they went three or four times a day and came back each time with the enemy's heads chopped off.
After fighting for more than ten days, Zhang Yan's army was finally defeated.
Lu Bu relied on his military exploits and once again asked Yuan Shao to increase his army, but Yuan Shao refused. Most of Lu Bu's generals and soldiers were vicious and brutal, which gave Yuan Shao a headache.
Lu Bu felt uneasy and asked to return to Luoyang.
Yuan Shao agreed to his request and appointed Lu Bu as the Sili Xiaowei in the name of the emperor. He sent warriors to escort Lu Bu and secretly asked him to kill Lu Bu.
Lu Bu suspected that Yuan Shao was plotting against him, so he sent Jin to play the zheng in the camp while he quietly escaped.
When Yuan Shao's troops rushed towards him late at night, Lu Bu had already escaped.
After Yuan Shao found out, he was worried that Lu Bu would be harmful to him, so he sent people to chase Lu Bu with a reward, but none of them dared to approach Lu Bu, so that Lu Bu could surrender to Zhang Yang.
Passing by Chenliu on the way, the prefect Zhang Miao sent someone to meet Lu Bu and treated him well. When they were about to part, the two held each other's arms and vowed to be good friends.
◆Zhang Miao, courtesy name Meng Zhuo, was from Shuping. He was known as a chivalrous person since childhood.
At first he was summoned by the government, and soon he was promoted to the prefect of Chenliu.
During Dong Zhuo's rebellion, Zhang Miao and Cao Cao raised rebels together.
When Yuan Shao became the leader of the alliance and showed a proud look, Zhang Miao rebuked Yuan Shao with his upright morality. Yuan Shao already resented Zhang Miao and learned that he had a close relationship with Lu Bu, so he asked Cao Cao to kill Zhang Miao.
Cao Cao ignored him, but Zhang Miao felt uneasy.
The first year of Xingping. Cao Cao went east to attack Tao Qian and sent general Chen Gong from Wuyang to garrison Cambodia County.
Chen Gong took the opportunity to persuade Zhang Miao: Now the world is divided and heroes are rising at the same time. You have a team of 100,000 people. You are in a place where you can fight on all sides. You can look down on the world with your sword. You can be a hero among people, but you are controlled by others. Isn't it too despicable?
Now the troops in this state are at war, and the land is empty. Lu Bu is a fierce warrior, good at fighting, and brave and invincible. Take him and occupy Yanzhou together, wait and see the situation in the world, and wait for the changes in the current situation. This can last for a lifetime.
Zhang Miao listened to Chen Gong's advice, so he, his younger brother Zhang Chao, Chen Gong and others welcomed Lu Bu and asked him to be the herdsman of Yanzhou and occupy Puyang. All counties and counties of Yanzhou responded.
After Cao Cao found out, he led his army to attack Lu Bu. The two sides fought many times and lasted for more than a hundred days.
At this time, there was a drought, locusts were infested, food was insufficient, and people began to eat people. Lu Bu moved his troops to Shanyang and garrisoned them.
In the second year of Xingping, Cao Cao regained all the cities in Yanzhou and defeated Lu Bu in Juye. Lu Bu fled to Liu Bei.
Zhang Miao went to Yuan Shu's house to ask for help, leaving Zhang Chao with his family and subordinates to garrison Yongqiu.
Cao Cao surrounded Zhang Chao for several months and killed Zhang Chao and the Zhang family.
Zhang Miao was killed by his soldiers before he arrived in Shouchun.
At this time, Liu Bei led Xuzhou Mu and lived in Xiapi, and he and Yuan Shu were confronting each other on the Huaihe River.
Yuan Shu wanted to unite with Lu Bu to attack Liu Bei, so he wrote to Lu Bu, saying: I sent troops to the capital, but failed to kill Dong Zhuo and dismembered him.
The general killed Dong Zhuo and avenged Yuan Shu. This was his first credit.
Once upon a time, Jin Yuanxiu went south to Fengqiu and was defeated by Cao Cao. The general's attack on Cao Cao made my eyes bright and I could see clearly both far and near. This is the second credit.
Since Yuan Shu was born, he has never heard of Liu Bei in the world, but Liu Bei actually sent troops to fight with me.
With the general's power, he was able to defeat Liu Bei. This is the third achievement.
The general has three great contributions to Yuan Shu. Although Yuan Shu has no talent, he is willing to serve you until his death.

summary:
summary line 2: Lu Bu, a skilled warrior from Wuyuan, served under Ding Yuan but killed him to join Dong Zhuo. He later killed Dong Zhuo with Wang Yun's persuasion but fled after Li Cui's attack. He allied with various warlords, including Yuan Shu and Liu Bei, but frequently betrayed them. Known for his prowess, he defeated Zhang Yan but alienated allies due to his brutality. He eventually surrendered to Cao Cao after a siege at Xiapi, but was executed along with his generals Chen Gong and Gao Shun. His life was marked by shifting loyalties and ultimate failure.

