Chunk 0: 
original: 
赵氏之先，与秦共祖。
至中衍，为帝大戊御。
其后世蜚廉有子二人，而命其一子曰恶来，事纣，为周所杀，其后为秦。
恶来弟曰季胜，其后为赵。
季胜生孟增。
孟增幸于周成王，是为宅皋狼。
皋狼生衡父，衡父生造父。
造父幸于周缪王。
造父取骥之乘匹，与桃林盗骊、骅骝、绿耳，献之缪王。
缪王使造父御，西巡狩，见西王母，乐之忘归。
而徐偃王反，缪王日驰千里马，攻徐偃王，大破之。
乃赐造父以赵城，由此为赵氏。
自造父以下六世至奄父，曰公仲，周宣王时伐戎，为御。
及千亩战，奄父脱宣王。
奄父生叔带。
叔带之时，周幽王无道，去周如晋，事晋文侯，始建赵氏于晋国。
translation: 
The ancestors of the Zhao family and the Qin people have the same ancestor.
When it was passed to Zhongyan, he became the person who drove horses and chariots for Emperor Taiwu of the Shang Dynasty.
His descendant Feilian had two sons. One son was named Eilai and served King Zhou. He was later killed by the Zhou people. His descendants were the Ying Qin family.
Erlai's younger brother was named Ji Sheng, and his descendants were the Zhao people.
Ji Sheng gave birth to Meng Zeng.
Meng Zeng was favored by King Zhou Cheng, and this was Zhai Gaolang.
Gaolang begat Hengfu, and Hengfu begat Zaofu.
Zaofu was favored by King Mu of Zhou.
Cepheus selected eight horses and presented them to King Mu along with the famous horses such as Robber, Hualiu, and Luer obtained in Taolin.
King Mu asked Zaofu to drive his chariot to the west for inspection. He met the Queen Mother of the West and was so happy that he forgot to go back.
Soon, King Xu Yan launched a rebellion. King Mu rode a carriage and traveled thousands of miles a day to attack King Xu Yan and completely defeat him.
So he gave the city of Zhao to Zaofu, and he became the Zhao family from then on.
From Zaofu down through six generations, it was passed down to Yanfu, whose courtesy name was Gongzhong. When King Xuan of Zhou attacked the Rong people, he drove his chariot for King Xuan.
In the Battle of Thousand Acres, Yanfu saved King Xuan from danger.
Am's father gave birth to his uncle.
During the reign of his uncle, King You of Zhou was debauched and immoral, so he left the Zhou Dynasty and went to Jin, where he served Marquis Wen of Jin and began to establish the Zhao family in Jin.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
自叔带以下，赵宗益兴，五世而至赵夙。
赵夙，晋献公之十六年伐霍、魏、耿，而赵夙为将伐霍。
霍公求奔齐。
晋大旱，卜之，曰 霍太山为祟 。
使赵夙召霍君于齐，复之，以奉霍太山之祀，晋复穰。
晋献公赐赵夙耿。
夙生共孟，当鲁闵公之元年也。
共孟生赵衰，字子余。
赵衰卜事晋献公及诸公子，莫吉；卜事公子重耳，吉，即事重耳。
重耳以骊姬之乱亡奔翟，赵衰从。
翟伐廧咎如，得二女，翟以其少女妻重耳，长女妻赵衰而生盾。
初，重耳在晋时，赵衰妻亦生赵同、赵括、赵婴齐。
赵衰从重耳出亡，凡十九年，得反国。
重耳为晋文公，赵衰为原大夫，居原，任国政。
translation: 
From the uncle down, the Zhao family became more and more prosperous, and after five generations it was passed down to Zhao Su.
Zhao Su, in the 16th year of Duke Xian of Jin, conquered the three kingdoms of Huo, Wei, and Geng. He led the army to conquer the Huo Kingdom.
Huo Gongqiu fled to Qi State.
This year there was a severe drought in the Jin State, and the divination result said: The gods of Mount Huo Tai are causing trouble.
So Zhao Su was sent to Qi State to welcome back the king of Huo State, restored his status, and asked him to preside over the sacrifices at Mount Huo Tai. Only then did Jin State have a good harvest again.
Duke Xian of Jin gave the land of Geng to Zhao Su.
The year when Zhao Su came down to share the throne with Meng was the first year of Lu Min.
Mencius was born in the same family as Zhao Shui, whose courtesy name was Ziyu.
Zhao Shui used divination to decide whether to serve Duke Xian of Jin or other princes, but the result was unlucky. When the divination revealed that he was serving Prince Chong'er, the result was auspicious, so he went to serve Chong'er.
Chong'er fled to Zhai State due to the Liji Rebellion, and Zhao Shui followed him.
The Zhai people attacked Yao Jiuru and got two women. Zhai Jun gave the young girl to Chong'er as his wife, and the older girl to Zhao Shui as his wife, and they gave birth to Zhao Dun.
When Chong'er was in Jin, Zhao Shuai's first wife had already given birth to Zhao Tong, Zhao Kuo and Zhao Yingqi.
Zhao Shui fled with Chong'er for a total of nineteen years before he was able to return to Jin.
Chong'er became Duke Wen of Jin, and Zhao Shui became the official of Yuan. He lived in Yuan City and presided over state affairs.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
文公所以反国及霸，多赵衰计策，语在晋事中。
赵衰既反晋，晋之妻固要迎翟妻，而以其子盾为适嗣，晋妻三子皆下事之。
晋襄公之六年，而赵衰卒，谥为成季。
赵盾代成季任国政二年而晋襄公卒，太子夷皋年少。
盾为国多难，欲立襄公弟雍。
雍时在秦，使使迎之。
太子母日夜啼泣，顿首谓赵盾曰： 先君何罪，释其适子而更求君？
赵盾患之，恐其宗与大夫袭诛之，乃遂立太子，是为灵公，发兵距所迎襄公弟于秦者。
灵公既立，赵盾益专国政。
灵公立十四年，益骄。
赵盾骤谏，灵公弗听。
及食熊蹯，胹不熟，杀宰人，持其尸出，赵盾见之。
灵公由此惧，欲杀盾。
translation: 
The reason why Duke Wen of Jin was able to return and become the overlord was mostly due to Zhao Shuai's strategy. These things are all recorded in "Jin Family".
After Zhao Shui returned to Jin, his first wife in Jin insisted on welcoming back the wife he married in Zhai, and made Zhai's wife's son Zhao Dun the official heir, while his three sons served him in lower positions.
In the sixth year of Duke Xianggong of Jin Dynasty, Zhao Shui passed away, and his posthumous title was Cheng Ji.
Two years after Zhao Dun succeeded Cheng Ji in presiding over the state affairs, Duke Xianggang of Jin passed away and Prince Yigao was young.
Because the country was in trouble, Zhao Dun wanted to make Yong, the younger brother of Duke Xiang, the king of the country.
Yong was in Qin at that time, so he sent envoys to meet him.
The prince's mother cried day and night, kowtowed to Zhao Dun and said: "What sin did the late king have? Why did he abandon his legitimate son and establish another king?"
Zhao Dun was worried about this and was afraid that her clan members and officials would attack and kill her, so he appointed the crown prince, Duke Linggong of Jin, and sent troops to intercept the group of people who came to Qin to meet Duke Xianggong's younger brother.
After Duke Linggong ascended the throne, Zhao Dun took more control of the political affairs of Jin.
Fourteen years after Ling Gong succeeded to the throne, Zhao Lai became more and more arrogant.
Zhao Dun remonstrated many times, but Duke Linggong did not listen.
Once he ate bear paws, but because they were not cooked properly, he killed the catering officer and had his body carried out, where Zhao Dun happened to see him.
Duke Ling was frightened and wanted to kill Zhao Dun.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
盾素仁爱人，尝所食桑下饿人反扞救盾，盾以得亡。
未出境，而赵穿弑灵公而立襄公弟黑臀，是为成公。
赵盾复返，任国政。
君子讥盾 为正卿，亡不出境，反不讨贼 ，故太史书曰 赵盾弑其君 。
晋景公时而赵盾卒，谥为宣孟。子朔嗣。
赵朔，晋景公之三年，朔为晋将下军救郑，与楚庄王战河上。
朔娶晋成公姊为夫人。
晋景公之三年，大夫屠岸贾欲诛赵氏。
初，赵盾在时，梦见叔带持要而哭，甚悲；已而笑，拊手且歌。
盾卜之，兆绝而后好。
赵史援占之，曰： 此梦甚恶，非君之身，乃君之子，然亦君之咎。
至孙，赵将世益衰。
屠岸贾者，始有宠于灵公，及至于景公而贾为司寇，将作难，乃治灵公之贼以致赵盾。遍告诸将曰： 盾虽不知，犹为贼首。
translation: 
Zhao Dun was always kind and kind to others. He once gave food to a man who was hungry and fell under a mulberry tree. The man stepped forward to rescue Zhao Dun, and Zhao Dun was able to escape.
Before he could escape from the country, Zhao Chuan killed Duke Ling and made Heihui, the younger brother of Duke Xiang, the king. This was Duke Cheng of Jin.
Zhao Dun returned to preside over state affairs.
The gentleman ridiculed Zhao Dun: As a minister, he fled without leaving the country, and did not punish the rebels when he returned. Therefore, the historian recorded that Zhao Dun killed his king.
Zhao Dun died during the reign of Duke Jinggong of Jin Dynasty. His posthumous title was Xuan Meng, and his son Zhao Shuo inherited the title.
In the third year of Duke Jinggong of Jin Dynasty, Zhao Shuo led the Jin army to rescue Zheng State and fought with King Zhuang of Chu on the Yellow River.
Zhao Shuo married Jin Chenggong's sister as his wife.
In the third year of Duke Jinggong's reign in Jin Dynasty, the official Tu Anjia wanted to kill the entire Zhao family.
When Zhao Dun was still alive, he once dreamed that his uncle was hugging his waist and crying bitterly. He was very sad; then he laughed and clapped his hands and sang.
Zhao Dun performed a divination for this purpose, and the cracks burned on the tortoise shell were interrupted and then intact.
A historian named Yuan of Zhao State judged: This dream is unlucky. It did not come true on you, but on your son, but it was also because of your fault.
By your grandson's generation, the Zhao family will be even more in decline.
Tu Anjia was favored by Duke Lin at first. When he arrived at Jinggong, he became a scourge. When he was about to cause trouble, he first punished the rebels who killed Duke Lin in order to implicate Zhao Dun. At the same time, he informed all the generals that although Zhao Dun did not know about it, he was still the chief culprit.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
以臣弑君，子孙在朝，何以惩罪？
请诛之。
韩厥曰： 灵公遇贼，赵盾在外，吾先君以为无罪，故不诛。
今诸君将诛其后，是非先君之意。而今妄诛，妄诛谓之乱。
臣有大事而君不闻，是无君也。
屠岸贾不听。
韩厥告赵朔趣亡。
朔不肯，曰： 子必不绝赵祀，朔死不恨。
韩厥许诺，称疾不出。
贾不请而擅与诸将攻赵氏于下宫，杀赵朔、赵同、赵括、赵婴齐，皆灭其族。
赵朔妻成公姊，有遗腹，走公宫匿。
赵朔客曰公孙杵臼，杵臼谓朔友人程婴曰： 胡不死？
程婴曰： 朔之妇有遗腹，若幸而男，吾奉之；即女也，吾徐死耳。
居无何，而朔妇免身，生男。
屠岸贾闻之，索于宫中。
夫人置儿绔中，祝曰： 赵宗灭乎，若号；即不灭，若无声。
translation: 
A minister killed the king, but his descendants are still serving as officials in the court. How can we punish the criminals?
Please kill them.
Han Jue said: When Duke Linggong was killed, Zhao Dun was out of town. Our late king believed that he was not guilty, so he did not kill him.
Now you are going to kill his descendants. This is not the will of the late king but killing at will. Killing at will is causing chaos.
As a minister, if you have important matters but don't let the king know about it, this is to have no king.
Tu'anjia didn't listen.
Han Jue told Zhao Shuo to run away quickly.
Zhao Shuo refused to run away. He said: "You must not cut off the incense of the Zhao family. If I die, I will have no regrets."
Han Jue agreed to his request, and he lied that he was sick and would not go out.
Without asking the monarch for instructions, Tu'anjia and his generals attacked the Zhao family in the lower palace, killed Zhao Shuo, Zhao Tong, Zhao Kuo, and Zhao Yingqi, and exterminated their families.
Zhao Shuo's wife was Cheng Gong's sister. She was pregnant by Zhao Shuo, so she fled to Jin Jinggong's palace to hide.
One of Zhao Shuo's retainers was named Gongsun Chujiu. Chujiu said to Zhao Shuo's friend Cheng Ying: Why don't you die?
Cheng Ying said: Zhao Shuo's wife is pregnant. If she is a boy, I will support her; if she is a girl, it will not be too late for me to die.
Soon after, Zhao Shuo's wife gave birth to a boy.
After Tu'anjia heard about it, he went to the palace to search.
Zhao Shuo's wife put the baby in her pants and prayed: If the Zhao clan should be exterminated, cry loudly; if it is not going to be exterminated, don't make a sound.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
及索，儿竟无声。
已脱，程婴谓公孙杵臼曰： 今一索不得，后必且复索之，奈何？
公孙杵臼曰： 立孤与死孰难？
程婴曰： 死易，立孤难耳。
公孙杵臼曰： 赵氏先君遇子厚，子强为其难者，吾为其易者，请先死。
乃二人谋取他人婴儿负之，衣以文葆，匿山中。
程婴出，谬谓诸将军曰： 婴不肖，不能立赵孤。谁能与我千金，吾告赵氏孤处。
诸将皆喜，许之，发师随程婴攻公孙杵臼。
杵臼谬曰： 小人哉程婴！
昔下宫之难不能死，与我谋匿赵氏孤儿，今又卖我。
纵不能立，而忍卖之乎！
抱儿呼曰： 天乎天乎！
赵氏孤儿何罪？
请活之，独杀杵臼可也。
诸将不许，遂杀杵臼与孤儿。
诸将以为赵氏孤儿良已死，皆喜。
然赵氏真孤乃反在，程婴卒与俱匿山中。
translation: 
When the search arrived, the baby had no sound.
After escaping from danger, Cheng Ying said to Gongsun Peijiu: "We didn't find anything in the search today. We must search again in the future. What should we do?"
Gongsun Chujiu said: Which is more difficult, raising an orphan or dying?
Cheng Ying said: It is easy to die, but it is difficult to raise an orphan.
Gongsun Chujiu said: The ancestors of the Zhao family treated you well, so you can do the difficult things reluctantly; I will do the easy things, and let me die first!
So the two of them managed to get someone else's baby to carry on their backs, wrapped him in embroidered swaddling clothes, and hid him in the mountains.
Cheng Ying came out of the mountain and pretended to tell the generals: "I, Cheng Ying, have no future and cannot raise the orphans of the Zhao family. If anyone can give me a thousand pieces of gold, I will tell them where the orphans of the Zhao family are hidden."
The generals were very happy, agreed to his offer, and sent troops to follow Cheng Ying to attack Gongsun Chujiu.
Chujiu pretended to say: Cheng Ying, you are such a villain!
You couldn't die when you were in trouble in the palace, and you plotted with me to hide the Zhao orphans, but now you betrayed me.
Even if you can't support him with me, how can you bear to betray him!
He held the baby and shouted: Oh my God! Oh my gosh!
What crime did the Zhao orphans have?
Please let him live and just kill me, Chujiu.
The generals did not agree and immediately killed Chujiu and the orphan.
The generals thought that the orphan Zhao was indeed dead and were very happy.
However, the real Zhao orphan was still alive, and Cheng Ying ended up hiding in the mountains with him.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
居十五年，晋景公疾，卜之，大业之后不遂者为祟。
景公问韩厥，厥知赵孤在，乃曰： 大业之后在晋绝祀者，其赵氏乎？
夫自中衍者皆嬴姓也。
中衍人面鸟噣，降佐殷帝大戊，及周天子，皆有明德。
下及幽厉无道，而叔带去周适晋，事先君文侯，至于成公，世有立功，未尝绝祀。
今吾君独灭赵宗，国人哀之，故见龟策。
唯君图之。
景公问： 赵尚有后子孙乎？
韩厥具以实告。
于是景公乃与韩厥谋立赵孤儿，召而匿之宫中。
诸将入问疾，景公因韩厥之众以胁诸将而见赵孤。
赵孤名曰武。
诸将不得已，乃曰： 昔下宫之难，屠岸贾为之，矫以君命，并命群臣。非然，孰敢作难！
微君之疾，群臣固且请立赵后。
今君有命，群臣之愿也。
translation: 
Fifteen years later, Jin Jinggong fell ill and performed a divination. The divination revealed that Daye's descendants were causing trouble due to the cessation of sacrifices.
Jinggong asked Han Jue. Han Jue knew that the orphan of the Zhao family was still alive, so he said: Among the descendants of Daye who have now cut off their incest in Jin, isn't it the Zhao family?
The descendants descended from it all bear the surname Ying.
Zhongyan, a man with a human face and a bird's beak, came to the world to assist Emperor Taiwu of Yin, and the several emperors of Zhou assisted by his descendants all had good virtues.
Further down to King Li and King You, who were ignorant and ignorant, Shudai left the Zhou Dynasty and came to the Jin Dynasty to serve the ancestor Wenhou. Until they became dukes, they established achievements for generations and never stopped their incense.
Now only you, the monarch, have destroyed the Zhao clan, and the people of Jin are mourning for them, so it was revealed in the divination.
I hope you will consider this!
Jinggong asked: "Does the Zhao family have any descendants?"
Han Jue told Jinggong completely the truth.
So Jinggong discussed with Han Jue to create an orphan of the Zhao family, and first found him and hid him in the palace.
The generals entered the palace to inquire about Jinggong's condition. Jinggong relied on Han Jue's many followers to force the generals to meet the Zhao orphans.
The orphan of the Zhao family is named Zhao Wu.
The generals had no choice but to say: The incident in the palace was instigated by Tu'anjia. He falsely conveyed the emperor's orders and issued orders to the ministers. If not, who would dare to initiate a rebellion!
Even if the monarch is not sick, we ministers must support the descendants of the Zhao family.
Now that you have given the order, this is also our wish!


Chunk 7: 
original: 
于是召赵武、程婴遍拜诸将，遂反与程婴、赵武攻屠岸贾，灭其族。
复与赵武田邑如故。
及赵武冠，为成人，程婴乃辞诸大夫，谓赵武曰： 昔下宫之难，皆能死。
我非不能死，我思立赵氏之后。
今赵武既立，为成人，复故位，我将下报赵宣孟与公孙杵臼。
赵武啼泣顿首固请，曰： 武愿苦筋骨以报子至死，而子忍去我死乎！
程婴曰： 不可。
彼以我为能成事，故先我死；今我不报，是以我事为不成。
遂自杀。
赵武服齐衰三年，为之祭邑，春秋祠之，世世勿绝。
赵氏复位十一年，而晋厉公杀其大夫三郄。
栾书畏及，乃遂弑其君厉公，更立襄公曾孙周，是为悼公。
晋由此大夫稍强。
赵武续赵宗二十七年，晋平公立。
平公十二年，而赵武为正卿。
translation: 
So Zhao Wu and Cheng Ying were asked to thank the generals one by one. The generals in turn joined Cheng Ying and Zhao Wu to attack Tu'anjia and annihilate his family.
Jinggong gave Zhao Wu the fiefdom that originally belonged to the Zhao family.
When Zhao Wu had the crowning ceremony and he was already an adult, Cheng Ying said goodbye to all the officials, and then said to Zhao Wu: "Everyone can die for the Lord because of what happened in the palace."
It's not that I can't die, I just want to support the descendants of the Zhao family.
Now that Zhao Wu has inherited his ancestral legacy, grown up, and restored his original title, I will go underground to report to Zhao Xuan and Gongsun Chujiu.
Zhao Wu cried and kowtowed, and insisted on requesting: "I would rather suffer my own bones and muscles to repay you until my death. Do you have the heart to leave me and die?"
Cheng Ying said: No.
Gongsun Chujiu thought that I could accomplish great things, so he died before me; if I don't come back to life now, he will think that I haven't accomplished this yet.
So he committed suicide.
Zhao Wu kept mourning for Cheng Ying for three years and arranged land for him to use for sacrifices. Spring and Autumn sacrifices have been passed down from generation to generation.
Eleven years after Zhao's title was restored, Duke Li of Jin killed three senior officials of the Que family.
Luan Shu was afraid that he would be implicated, so he killed Duke Li, the king of Jin, and replaced him with Duke Xiang's great-grandson Zhou, who was Duke Ao of Jin.
From then on, the power of the officials in the Jin Dynasty gradually became stronger.
Twenty-seven years after Zhao Wu succeeded the Zhao clan, Duke Ping of Jin came to the throne.
In the twelfth year of Ping Gong's reign, Zhao Wu became Zhengqing.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
十三年，吴延陵季子使于晋，曰： 晋国之政卒归于赵武子、韩宣子、魏献子之后矣。
赵武死，谥为文子。
文子生景叔。
景叔之时，齐景公使晏婴于晋，晏婴与晋叔向语。
婴曰： 齐之政后卒归田氏。
叔向亦曰： 晋国之政将归六卿。
六卿侈矣，而吾君不能恤也。
赵景叔卒，生赵鞅，是为简子。
赵简子在位，晋顷公之九年，简子将合诸侯戍于周。
其明年，入周敬王于周，辟弟子朝之故也。
晋顷公之十二年，六卿以法诛公族祁氏、羊舌氏，分其邑为十县，六卿各令其族为之大夫。
晋公室由此益弱。
后十三年，鲁贼臣阳虎来奔，赵简子受赂，厚遇之。
赵简子疾，五日不知人，大夫皆惧。
医扁鹊视之，出，董安于问。扁鹊曰： 血脉治也，而何怪！
在昔秦缪公尝如此，七日而寤。
translation: 
In the thirteenth year, Yanling Jizi of Wu State came to Jin State. He said: The power of Jin State will eventually fall into the hands of the descendants of Zhao Wuzi, Han Xuanzi and Wei Xianzi.
After Zhao Wu's death, his posthumous title was Wenzi.
Wenzi gave birth to Uncle Jing.
During the reign of Uncle Jing, Qi Jinggong sent Yan Ying as an envoy to the State of Jin. Yan Ying talked with Uncle Xiang of the State of Jin.
Yan Ying said: The political power of Qi will eventually fall into the hands of the Tian family.
Shuxiang also said: The political power of Jin will fall into the hands of the six ministers.
The Six Ministers are very presumptuous, but our monarch does not know how to worry.
Uncle Zhao Jing died, and he gave birth to a son, Zhao Yang, who became Zhao Jianzi.
During the reign of Zhao Jianzi, in the ninth year of Jin Qinggong, Jianzi joined the princes to garrison in Zhou territory.
The next year, he escorted King Zhou Jing back to the Zhou Dynasty because he was in exile to avoid his younger brother Zichao.
In the twelfth year of Qinggong's reign in the Jin Dynasty, the six ministers executed the Qi and Yangyu clans of the monarch according to the law, and divided their territory into ten counties. The six ministers asked their own clansmen to be officials.
The Jin government was further weakened from then on.
Thirteen years later, Yang Hu, a rebellious minister of Lu State, fled to Jin State. Zhao Jianzi accepted the bribe and treated him favorably.
Zhao Jianzi fell ill and was unconscious for five days. The doctors were all frightened.
Doctor Bian Que came out after seeing it. Dong Anyu asked about his condition. Bian Que said: "My blood is peaceful, why should you be surprised!"
Duke Mu of Qin also had this situation before, and it took him seven days to wake up.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
寤之日，告公孙支与子舆曰： 我之帝所甚乐。
吾所以久者，适有学也。
帝告我： 晋国将大乱，五世不安；其后将霸，未老而死；霸者之子且令而国男女无别。
公孙支书而藏之，秦谶è于是出矣。
献公之乱，文公之霸，而襄公败秦师于殽而归纵淫，此子之所闻。
今主君之疾与之同，不出三日疾必间，间必有言也。
居二日半，简子寤。
语大夫曰： 我之帝所甚乐，与百神游于钧天，广乐九奏万舞，不类三代之乐，其声动人心。
有一熊欲来援我，帝命我射之，中熊，熊死。
又有一罴来，我又射之，中罴，罴死。
帝甚喜，赐我二笥，皆有副。
吾见儿在帝侧，帝属我一翟犬，曰： 及而子之壮也，以赐之。
帝告我： 晋国且世衰，七世而亡，嬴姓将大败周人于范魁之西，而亦不能有也。
今余思虞舜之勋，适余将以其胄女孟姚配而七世之孙。
translation: 
The day I woke up, I told Gongsun Zhi and Ziyu: I am very happy when I arrive at the place where the Emperor of Heaven lives.
The reason I stayed so long was because I happened to be teaching.
The Emperor of Heaven told me: The Kingdom of Jin will be in chaos, and there will be no peace for the fifth generation; their descendants will dominate and die before they grow old, and the sons of those who dominate will let men and women mix in your Kingdom of Jin.
Gongsun Zhi wrote it down and hid it, and the prophecy of Qin came out.
You know the chaos during the reign of Duke Xian, the hegemony under Duke Wen, the great defeat of the Qin army at Mt.
Now your monarch's illness is the same as Duke Mu of Qin. He will definitely recover within three days. After he gets better, he will definitely have something to say.
After two and a half days, Jianzi woke up.
He said to the doctors: I was very happy when I arrived at the Emperor of Heaven. I traveled with hundreds of gods in Juntian. I heard magnificent music played many times and saw thousands of dances. It was not like the music of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties. The music was very moving.
A bear came to catch me, and the Emperor of Heaven asked me to shoot it. The bear was shot and died.
Another turtle came over, and I shot it again. The turtle was shot and died.
The Emperor was very happy and gave me two bamboo boxes, both equipped with small boxes.
I saw a child next to the Emperor of Heaven. The Emperor of Heaven entrusted me with a Zhai dog and said to me: When your son grows up, give him this dog.
The Emperor of Heaven also told me: The Jin Kingdom will gradually decline and will perish after seven generations. The people surnamed Ying will defeat the Zhou people to the west of Fan Kui, but you cannot occupy it.
Now I recall the merits of Yu and Shun, and when the time comes I will marry Meng Yao, the daughter of Shun's descendants, to your seventh-generation grandson.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
董安于受言而书藏之。
以扁鹊言告简子，简子赐扁鹊田四万亩。
他日，简子出，有人当道，辟之不去，从者怒，将刃之。
当道者曰： 吾欲有谒于主君。
从者以闻。简子召之，曰： 嘻，吾有所见子晣也。
当道者曰： 屏左右，愿有谒。
简子屏人。
当道者曰： 主君之疾，臣在帝侧。
简子曰： 然，有之。
子之见我，我何为？
当道者曰： 帝令主君射熊与罴，皆死。
简子曰： 是，且何也？
当道者曰： 晋国且有大难，主君首之。
帝令主君灭二卿，夫熊与罴皆其祖也。
简子曰： 帝赐我二笥皆有副，何也？
当道者曰： 主君之子将克二国于翟，皆子姓也。
简子曰： 吾见儿在帝侧，帝属我一翟犬，曰 及而子之长以赐之 。
夫儿何谓以赐翟犬？
当道者曰： 儿，主君之子也。翟犬者，代之先也。
主君之子且必有代。
translation: 
After hearing this, Dong Anyu wrote it down and kept it safely.
He reported what Bian Que said to Jianzi, and Jianzi gave Bianque four acres of land.
One day, when Jianzi was out, someone blocked his way and refused to leave even if he was driven away. His followers were very angry and wanted to kill him.
The roadblocker said: I have something to see the Lord.
The attendant reported his words to Jianzi. Jianzi summoned him and said upon meeting him: Hee! I have seen you clearly.
The man blocking the road said: "Please ask the attendants on the left and right to step aside. I have something to report."
Jianzi asked people to retreat.
The roadblock said: When you were sick, I was with the Emperor of Heaven.
Jianzi said: Yes, this is indeed the case.
What was I doing when you saw me?
The man who blocked the road said: The Emperor of Heaven asked you to shoot bears and pigs, but you shot them both to death.
Jianzi said: Yes, what will happen?
The person blocking the road said: Jin will be in great trouble, and you will be the first to bear the brunt.
The Emperor of Heaven has asked you to kill two ministers. Xiong and Zhu are their ancestors.
Jianzi said: The Emperor of Heaven gave me two bamboo boxes, each with matching small boxes. What does this mean?
The blocker said: Your son will defeat two countries in Zhai, and they both have the surname Zi.
Jianzi said: I saw a child next to the Emperor of Heaven. The Emperor of Heaven gave me a Zhai dog and said: When your son grows up, give him this dog.
What does it mean to give a Zhai dog to a child?
The blocker said: The child is your son, and Zhai Quan is the ancestor of Daiguo.
Your son will definitely occupy Daiguo in the future.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
及主君之后嗣，且有革政而胡服，并二国于翟。
简子问其姓而延之以官。
当道者曰： 臣野人，致帝命耳。
遂不见。
简子书藏之府。
异日，姑布子卿见简子，简子遍召诸子相之。
子卿曰： 无为将军者。
简子曰： 赵氏其灭乎？
子卿曰： 吾尝见一子于路，殆君之子也。
简子召子毋恤。
毋恤至，则子卿起曰： 此真将军矣！
简子曰： 此其母贱，翟婢也，傒道贵哉？
子卿曰： 天所授，虽贱必贵。
自是之后，简子尽召诸子与语，毋恤最贤。
简子乃告诸子曰： 吾藏宝符于常山上，先得者赏。
诸子驰之常山上，求，无所得。
毋恤还，曰： 已得符矣。
简子曰： 奏之。
毋恤曰： 从常山上临代，代可取也。
简子于是知毋恤果贤，乃废太子伯鲁，而以毋恤为太子。
后二年，晋定公之十四年，范、中行作乱。
translation: 
In your descendants, there will be changes in government decrees, and they will wear the clothes of the barbarians and annex two countries in Zhai.
Jianzi asked him his last name and wanted to appoint him as an official.
The man who blocked the road said: I am a countryman, and I just came to convey the will of the Emperor of Heaven.
After saying that, he disappeared.
Jianzi recorded these words and kept them in his secret palace.
Another day, Gubuziqing paid a visit to Jianzi. Jianzi called his sons to have his fortune read.
Ziqing said: There is no one who can be a general.
Jianzi said: Is the Zhao family finished?
Ziqing said: I once saw a child on the road, probably your son!
Jianzi called his son Wuxie again.
As soon as Wuji arrived, Ziqing stood up and said, "This is the real general!"
Jianzi said: This child's mother is a humble servant girl from Zhai. How can you say he is noble?
Ziqing said: Those given by God, even if they are humble, they will surely become noble.
From then on, Jianzi often called his sons to talk, and Wuxie behaved the best.
Jianzi once told his sons: I have hidden the treasure talisman on Mount Chang, and whoever finds it first will be rewarded.
The sons hurried to Changshan to look for it, but found nothing.
Wu Shi came back and said: The treasure talisman has been found.
Jianzi said: Just tell me.
Wuxie said: If you can see the state of Dai from Changshan Mountain, you can capture the state of Dai.
Only then did Jianzi realize that Wuxie was indeed a talented person. So he deposed Prince Bolu and made Wushe the crown prince.
Two years later, in the fourteenth year of Jin Dinggong's reign, the Fan family and the Zhongxing family rebelled.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
明年春，简子谓邯郸大夫午曰： 归我卫士五百家，吾将置之晋阳。
午许诺。归而其父兄不听，倍言。
赵鞅捕午，囚之晋阳。
乃告邯郸人曰： 我私有诛午也，诸君欲谁立？
遂杀午。
赵稷、涉宾以邯郸反。
晋君使籍秦围邯郸。
荀寅、范吉射与午善，不肯助秦而谋作乱，董安于知之。
十月，范、中行氏伐赵鞅，鞅奔晋阳，晋人围之。
范吉射、荀寅仇人魏襄等谋逐荀寅，以梁婴父代之；逐吉射，以范皋绎代之。
荀栎言于晋侯曰： 君命大臣，始乱者死。
今三臣始乱而独逐鞅，用刑不均，请皆逐之。
十一月，荀栎、韩不佞、魏哆奉公命以伐范、中行氏，不克。
范、中行氏反伐公，公击之，范、中行败走。
丁未，二子奔朝歌。
韩、魏以赵氏为请。
十二月辛未，赵鞅入绛，盟于公宫。
其明年，知伯文子谓赵鞅曰： 范、中行虽信为乱，安于发之，是安于与谋也。
晋国有法，始乱者死。
夫二子已伏罪而安于独在。
赵鞅患之。
安于曰： 臣死，赵氏定，晋国宁，吾死晚矣。
遂自杀。
赵氏以告知伯，然后赵氏宁。
孔子闻赵简子不请晋君而执邯郸午，保晋阳，故书《春秋》曰 赵鞅以晋阳畔 。
赵简子有臣曰周舍，好直谏。
周舍死，简子每听朝，常不悦，大夫请罪。
简子曰： 大夫无罪。
吾闻千羊之皮不如一狐之腋。
诸大夫朝，徒闻唯唯，不闻周舍之鄂鄂，是以忧也。
简子由此能附赵邑而怀晋人。
晋定公十八年，赵简子围范、中行于朝歌，中行文子奔邯郸。
translation: 
In the spring of the next year, Jianzi said to Zhao Wu, the doctor of Handan, "Give me back the five hundred households of Weiguo's people, and I will resettle them to Jinyang."
Zhao Wu agreed, but when he returned, his father and brother disagreed, so he broke his promise.
Zhao Yang arrested Zhao Wu and imprisoned him in Jinyang.
He also told the people of Handan: I will kill Zhao Wu privately. Who do you want to take over?
So Zhao Wu was killed.
Zhao Wu's son Zhao Ji and his retainer Shebin rebelled with Handan.
The king of Jin sent troops led by Qin to besiege Handan.
Xun Yin, Fan Jishe and Zhao Wu had a good relationship, but they refused to help Qin and instead planned a rebellion. Dong Anyu knew about this.
In October, the Fan family and the Zhonghang family attacked Zhao Yang. Zhao Yang fled to Jinyang, and the Jin people surrounded Jinyang.
Fan Jishe, Xun Yin's enemy Wei Xiang, and others plotted to expel Xun Yin and replace him with Liang Yingfu; to expel Fan Jishe and replace him with Fan Gaoyi.
Xun Yue said to the king of Jin: The king ordered his ministers to kill those who lead the rebellion.
Now the three ministers are leading the rebellion, but expelling Zhao Yang alone is an unfair punishment. Please expel them all.
In November, Xun Yue, Han Buyi and Wei Duo followed the king's order to attack the Fan and Zhongxing clans, but failed to win.
The Fan family and Zhonghang family in turn attacked Dinggong, and Dinggong fought back. Fan family and Zhonghang family failed and fled.
On the day of Ding Wei, two people fled to Chaoge.
Han Buyi and Wei Duo interceded for Zhao Yang.
On Xinwei day in December, Zhao Yang entered Jiangcheng and swore an oath in the Dinggong Palace.
In the second year, Zhibo Wenzi said to Zhao Yang: Although the Fan family and the Zhonghang family did launch a rebellion, it was Dong Anyu who instigated it, which means Dong Anyu participated in the planning.
The state of Jin has laws, and anyone who starts to cause trouble will be put to death.
Those two people have been punished, but Dong Anyu is still there.
Zhao Yang was worried about this matter.
Dong Anyu said: If I die, the Zhao family can be peaceful and the Jin country can be peaceful. I died too late.
So he committed suicide.
Zhao Yang told Uncle Zhi about this matter, and the Zhao family found peace after that.
Confucius heard that Zhao Jianzi arrested Zhao Wu, the Handan official, without asking the king of Jin, and retreated to Jinyang, so he recorded in the Spring and Autumn Annals: Zhao Yang rebelled with Jinyang.
Zhao Jianzi had a retainer named Zhou She who liked to speak out and give advice.
After Zhou She's death, Jianzi was often unhappy whenever he went to court to deal with political affairs, and the officials asked for forgiveness.
Jianzi said: You are not guilty.
I heard that a thousand sheepskins are not as good as the armpit fur of a fox.
When the officials went to court, they only heard respectful and obedient responses, but no arguments like Zhou She's. I was worried about this.
Therefore, Jianzi was able to make the people of Zhao obey and make the Jin people turn to him.
In the eighteenth year of Jin Dinggong, Zhao Jianzi surrounded Fan Jishe and Zhongxingyin in Chaoge, and Zhongxingyin fled to Handan.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
明年，卫灵公卒。
简子与阳虎送卫太子蒯聩于卫，卫不内，居戚。
晋定公二十一年，简子拔邯郸，中行文子奔柏人。
简子又围柏人，中行文子、范昭子遂奔齐。
赵竟有邯郸、柏人。
范、中行余邑入于晋。
赵名晋卿，实专晋权，奉邑侔于诸侯。
晋定公三十年，定公与吴王夫差争长于黄池，赵简子从晋定公，卒长吴。
定公三十七年卒，而简子除三年之丧，期而已。
是岁，越王句践灭吴。
晋出公十一年，知伯伐郑。
赵简子疾，使太子毋恤将而围郑。
知伯醉，以酒灌击毋恤。
毋恤群臣请死之。
毋恤曰： 君所以置毋恤，为能忍訽。
然亦愠知伯。
知伯归，因谓简子，使废毋恤，简子不听。
毋恤由此怨知伯。
晋出公十七年，简子卒，太子毋恤代立，是为襄子。
赵襄子元年，越围吴。
襄子降丧食，使楚隆问吴王。
translation: 
In the second year, Wei Linggong passed away.
Zhao Jianzi and Yang Hu sent Crown Prince Kuai Chi to Wei State, but Wei State refused to accept him, so Prince Wei had to live in Qicheng.
In the 21st year of Duke Dinggong of Jin Dynasty, Zhao Jianzi invaded Handan, and Zhongxing Yin fled to Bairen.
Jianzi surrounded the Bai people again, and Zhongxingyin and Fan Jishe rushed to Qi again.
The Zhao family finally took possession of Handan and Bai people.
The remaining territories of the Fan and Zhonghang clans were assigned to the Jin State.
Zhao Jianzi was named Shangqing of Jin State, and he actually monopolized the political power of Jin State. His fiefdom was equivalent to that of the princes.
In the thirtieth year of Jin Dinggong's reign, Dinggong and Wu King Fu Chai competed to be the leader of the alliance at the princes alliance meeting in Huangchi. Zhao Jianzi followed Jin Dinggong and finally made Wu King the leader.
When Duke Dinggong passed away in the thirty-seventh year of his reign, Jianzi was exempted from the mourning ceremony for three years, which ended on the first anniversary.
In this year, King Goujian of Yue destroyed the state of Wu.
In the eleventh year of the Jin Dynasty, Zhi Bo attacked Zheng Guo.
When Zhao Jianzi fell ill, he sent Prince Wuxie to lead his troops to surround Zheng Guo.
Zhibo was drunk, so he forced Wu Shi to drink wine and beat him.
Wuji's subordinates demanded that Zhibo be executed.
Wuxie said: Your Majesty made me the crown prince because I can endure humiliation and bear heavy burdens.
But he also resented Zhibo.
After Zhibo returned, he told Jianzi that he should abolish Wuxie, but Jianzi did not listen.
Wuji resented Zhibai even more.
In the seventeenth year of the Jin Dynasty, Zhao Jianzi died and was succeeded by the crown prince Wuxie, who was Zhao Xiangzi.
In the first year of Zhao Xiangzi, the State of Yue surrounded the State of Wu.
Xiangzi reduced the stipulated diet during the period of mourning and sent his retainer Chu Long to visit King Wu.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
襄子姊前为代王夫人。
简子既葬，未除服，北登夏屋，请代王。使厨人操铜枓以食代王及从者，行斟，阴令宰人各以枓击杀代王及从官，遂兴兵平代地。
其姊闻之，泣而呼天，摩笄自杀。
代人怜之，所死地名之为摩笄之山。
遂以代封伯鲁子周为代成君。
伯鲁者，襄子兄，故太子。
太子蚤死，故封其子。
襄子立四年，知伯与赵、韩、魏尽分其范、中行故地。
晋出公怒，告齐、鲁，欲以伐四卿。
四卿恐，遂共攻出公。
出公奔齐，道死。
知伯乃立昭公曾孙骄，是为晋懿公。
知伯益骄。
请地韩、魏，韩、魏与之。
请地赵，赵不与，以其围郑之辱。
知伯怒，遂率韩、魏攻赵。
赵襄子惧，乃奔保晋阳。
translation: 
Xiangzi's sister was originally the wife of the king.
After Jianzi was buried, Xiangzi had not yet taken off his mourning clothes, so he went north to climb Xiawu Mountain, invited King Dai, and asked the chef to use a copper spoon to invite King Dai and his entourage to have a meal. While pouring wine, he secretly asked the cook named Gege to beat King Dai and his attendants to death with a copper spoon, and then sent troops to pacify the land of Dai.
When his sister heard about this, she cried and called to heaven, sharpened her hairpin and committed suicide.
The local people sympathized with her and called the place where she committed suicide the Mountain of Moji.
Xiangzi granted the land of Dai to Zhao Zhou, Bolu's son, and made him the king of Dai.
Bolu is Xiangzi's brother and the original prince.
The prince died young, so his son was given the title.
Four years after Xiangzi came to the throne, Zhibo and the three families of Zhao, Han and Wei divided up all the original territories of Fan and Zhongxing.
Duke Chu of Jin was furious and notified Qi and Lu, hoping to rely on them to attack the four ministers.
The four ministers were afraid, so they attacked Jin Chugong together.
He fled to Qi State on duty and died on the way.
Uncle Duan appointed Zhaogong's great-grandson Jiao to take the throne, and this was Jin Yigong.
Zhibo became more and more arrogant.
He asked Han and Wei to cede their territory, and Han and Wei gave it to him.
Zhao was asked to cede territory, but Zhao refused because Zhibo had insulted him when he besieged Zheng.
Uncle Zhi was angry and led the Han and Wei families to attack the Zhao family.
Zhao Xiangzi was afraid, so he fled to Jinyang to retreat.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
原过从，后至于王泽，见三人，自带以上可见，自带以下不可见。
与原过竹二节，莫通。
曰： 为我以是遗赵毋恤。
原过既至，以告襄子。
襄子齐三日，亲自剖竹，有朱书曰： 赵毋恤，余霍泰山山阳侯天使也。
三月丙戌，余将使女反灭知氏。
女亦立我百邑，余将赐女林胡之地。
至于后世，且有伉王，赤黑，龙面而鸟噣，鬓麋髭，大膺大胸，修下而冯，左衽界乘，奄有河宗，至于休溷ù诸貉，南伐晋别，北灭黑姑。
襄子再拜，受三神之令。
三国攻晋阳，岁余，引汾水灌其城，城不浸者三版。
城中悬釜而炊，易子而食。
群臣皆有外心，礼益慢，唯高共不敢失礼。
襄子惧，乃夜使相张孟同私于韩、魏。
translation: 
Yuan Guo followed Xiangzi and fell behind. When he arrived at Wangze, he saw three people. They could be seen from above the belt, but not from below.
The three of them gave Yuan a bamboo stick with two sections, but there was no passage in the middle.
He said to him: Give this bamboo stick to Zhao Wuxie for us.
After Yuan Guo arrived, he told Xiangzi the situation.
Xiangzi fasted for three days and cut open the bamboo stick himself. Inside, there were vermilion characters written: Zhao Wuxie, we are the angels of the Yanghou of Mount Huotai.
On Bingxu day of March, we will ask you to destroy Zhishi in turn.
You will also build temples for our hundreds of cities, and we will give you the land of Linhu.
Your descendants will have a brave and strong king with red and black skin, a dragon face and a bird's beak, sideburns and eyebrows, a mustache and cheeks, a broad chest and a big belly, a slender lower body, a strong upper body, a left skirt, wearing armor and riding a horse. All the raccoon tribesmen who occupied the middle reaches of the Yellow River and the Xiumun area went south to attack other cities in Jin and went north to destroy Heigu.
Xiangzi worshiped again and accepted the orders of the three gods.
The Three Kingdoms' attack on Jinyang lasted for more than a year, causing Fenshui to flood the city. Only three walls of the city wall were not flooded.
People in the city hang up pots to cook and exchange their children for them to eat.
All the ministers were disloyal and their etiquette became more and more neglectful. Only the Communist Party of China did not dare to be rude to Xiangzi.
Xiangzi was afraid, so he sent Prime Minister Zhang Mengtong to secretly make friends with Han and Wei in the middle of the night.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
韩、魏与合谋，以三月丙戌，三国反灭知氏，共分其地。
于是襄子行赏，高共为上。
张孟同曰： 晋阳之难，唯共无功。
襄子曰： 方晋阳急，群臣皆懈，惟共不敢失人臣礼，是以先之。
于是赵北有代，南并知氏，强于韩、魏。
遂祠三神于百邑，使原过主霍泰山祠祀。
其后娶空同氏，生五子。
襄子为伯鲁之不立也，不肯立子，且必欲传位与伯鲁子代成君。
成君先死，乃取代成君子浣立为太子。
襄子立三十三年卒，浣立，是为献侯。
献侯少即位，治中牟。
襄子弟桓子逐献侯，自立于代，一年卒。
国人曰桓子立非襄子意，乃共杀其子而复迎立献侯。
十年，中山武公初立。
十三年，城平邑。
十五年，献侯卒，子烈侯籍立。
烈侯元年，魏文侯伐中山，使太子击守之。
六年，魏、韩、赵皆相立为诸侯，追尊献子为献侯。
translation: 
Han, Wei and Zhao conspired. On Bingxu in March, the three countries in turn destroyed the Zhi family and jointly divided his land.
So Xiangzi made a reward, and the Gao Communist Party ranked first in merit.
Zhang Mengtong said: During the time of trouble in Jinyang, only the Communist Party of China did not make meritorious deeds.
Xiangzi said: When Jinyang was in crisis, all the ministers were indifferent. Only the Communist Party of Gao did not dare to violate the etiquette of ministers, so he will receive a reward.
At this time, Zhao occupied Dai territory in the north and annexed the Zhi clan in the south, becoming stronger than Han and Wei.
So he built a temple to offer sacrifices to the three gods in Baiyi, and sent Yuan Guo to preside over the sacrifices at the Hotai Mountain Temple.
Later, Xiangzi married Kongtong and gave birth to five sons.
Because Bolu failed to succeed to the throne, Xiangzi refused to make his own son the crown prince, and insisted on passing the throne to Bolu's son Dai Chengjun.
Chengjun died first, so he chose Zhao Huan, Chengjun's son, as the crown prince.
Xiangzi died in the 33rd year of his reign, and Zhao Huan came to the throne. He became the Marquis of Xian.
Xianhou came to the throne at a young age, and his capital was Zhongmu.
Xiangzi's younger brother Huanzi expelled Xianhou and established himself as a marquis in Dai. He died a year later.
The people of Zhao thought that Huanzi's accession to the throne was not Xiangzi's wish, so they jointly killed his son and welcomed Xianhou to the throne.
In the tenth year of Xianhou's reign, Duke Wu of Zhongshan State began to ascend the throne.
In the thirteenth year, a city was built in Pingyi.
In the fifteenth year, Xianhou died, and his son Liehou Zhao Ji came to the throne.
In the first year of Liehou, Wei Wenhou attacked Zhongshan Kingdom and sent Prince Wei to garrison it.
In the sixth year, Wei, Han, and Zhao were all established as princes, and the Zhao family pursued and presented their sons as Xianhou.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
烈侯好音，谓相国公仲连曰： 寡人有爱，可以贵之乎？
公仲曰： 富之可，贵之则否。
烈侯曰： 然。
夫郑歌者枪、石二人，吾赐之田，人万亩。 公仲曰： 诺。
不与。
居一月，烈侯从代来，问歌者田。公仲曰： 求，未有可者。
有顷，烈侯复问。公仲终不与，乃称疾不朝。
番吾君自代来，谓公仲曰： 君实好善，而未知所持。
今公仲相赵，于今四年，亦有进士乎？ 公仲曰： 未也。
番吾君曰： 牛畜、荀欣、徐越皆可。
公仲乃进三人。
及朝，烈侯复问： 歌者田何如？
公仲曰： 方使择其善者。
牛畜侍烈侯以仁义，约以王道，烈侯逌然。
明日，荀欣侍，以选练举贤，任官使能。
明日，徐越侍以节财俭用，察度功德。
所与无不充，君说。
烈侯使使谓相国曰： 歌者之田且止。
translation: 
Liehou liked music and said to the Prime Minister Zhonglian: "I have someone I like. Can I make him noble?"
Gong Zhong said: It is okay to make him rich, but not to make him noble.
Liehou said: Okay.
I will give each of Zheng's singers Qiang and Shi Shi ten thousand acres of land. Gongzhong said: Yes.
In fact, it was not given.
A month later, Liehou came back from Dai and asked about the land given to the singer. Gongzhong said: "I am looking for it, but I haven't found the right one yet."
Not long after, Liehou asked again, but Gongzhong still refused, so he said he was ill and would not go to court.
Lord Fanwu came from Daidi and said to Gongzhong: "The king indeed likes to implement good government, but he just doesn't know how to implement it."
You have been the prime minister of Zhao for four years now. Have you ever recommended talents? Gongzhong said: No.
Fan Wujun said: Niu Zhu, Xun Xin, and Xu Yue can all be recommended.
Gongzhong recommended these three people.
When it was time to go to court, Liehou asked again: How is the singer's land?
Gongzhong said: Send decent people to select the best fields.
When the cattle and animals served the Liehou, they taught him the principles of benevolence and righteousness and restrained him with royal principles. The Liehou's attitude was lenient.
The next day, Xun Xin accompanied him and suggested that talented people should be selected and able people should be appointed as officials.
On the third day, in addition to the Vietnamese escorts, it was recommended to save property and expenses, and to inspect and evaluate the merits and virtues of the officials.
The principles they taught were not insufficient, and the king was very happy.
Liehou sent someone to tell the Prime Minister: "The granting of fields to singers is temporarily suspended."


Chunk 18: 
original: 
官牛畜为师，荀欣为中尉，徐越为内史，赐相国衣二袭。
九年，烈侯卒，弟武公立。
武公十三年卒，赵复立烈侯太子章，是为敬侯。
是岁，魏文侯卒。
敬侯元年，武公子朝作乱，不克，出奔魏。
赵始都邯郸。
二年，败齐于灵丘。三年，救魏于廪丘，大败齐人。
四年，魏败我兔台。
筑刚平以侵卫。
五年，齐、魏为卫攻赵，取我刚平。
六年，借兵于楚伐魏，取棘蒲。
八年，拔魏黄城。
九年，伐齐。
齐伐燕，赵救燕。
十年，与中山战于房子。
十一年，魏、韩、赵共灭晋，分其地。
伐中山，又战于中人。
十二年，敬侯卒，子成侯种立。
成侯元年，公子胜与成侯争立，为乱。
二年六月，雨雪。
三年，太戊午为相。
translation: 
He appointed Niuxu as his division, Xun Xin as his lieutenant, and Xu Yue as his internal historian, and gave the prime minister two sets of clothes.
In the ninth year, Liehou died and his younger brother Wu Gong came to the throne.
Duke Wu died in the thirteenth year of his reign, and the State of Zhao appointed Prince Liehou Zhao Zhang to take the throne. This was Zhao Jinghou.
This year, Wei Wenhou died.
In the first year of Jinghou, Duke Wu's son Zhao Chao rebelled and fled to Wei after the failure.
Zhao State began to use Handan as its capital.
In the second year of Jinghou's reign, he defeated the Qi army at Lingqiu. In the third year, he rescued the Wei State in Linqiu and defeated the Qi army.
In the fourth year, the Zhao army was defeated by the Wei army at Tutai.
Zhao built Gangping City to attack Weiguo.
In the fifth year, Qi and Wei helped Wei Guo attack Zhao and captured Zhao's Gangping City.
In the sixth year, he borrowed troops from Chu to attack Wei and captured Jipu.
In eight years, Huangcheng of Wei State was captured.
In the ninth year, he attacked Qi.
The state of Qi attacked the state of Yan, and the Zhao army rescued the state of Yan.
In the tenth year, the State of Zhao and the State of Zhongshan fought in Fangfang County.
In the eleventh year of Jinghou's reign, Wei, Han, and Zhao jointly destroyed Jin and divided its land.
Zhao State attacked Zhongshan State and fought in the Zhongren area.
In the twelfth year, Jinghou died, and his son Chenghou Zhao Zhong came to the throne.
In the first year of Chenghou, the prince Zhao Sheng competed with Chenghou for the throne and launched a rebellion.
In June of the following year, it snowed.
Three years later, Taiwuwu was appointed as the Prime Minister.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
伐卫，取乡邑七十三。
魏败我蔺。
四年，与秦战高安，败之。
五年，伐齐于鄄。
魏败我怀。
攻郑，败之，以与韩，韩与我长子。
六年，中山筑长城。
伐魏，败湪泽，围魏惠王。
七年，侵齐，至长城。
与韩攻周。
八年，与韩分周以为两。
九年，与齐战阿下。
十年，攻卫，取甄。
十一年，秦攻魏，赵救之石阿。
十二年，秦攻魏少梁，赵救之。
十三年，秦献公使庶长国伐魏少梁，虏其太子、痤。
魏败我浍，取皮牢。
成侯与韩昭侯遇上党。
十四年，与韩攻秦。
十五年，助魏攻齐。
十六年，与韩、魏分晋，封晋君以端氏。
十七年，成侯与魏惠王遇葛孽。
十九年，与齐、宋会平陆，与燕会阿。
二十年，魏献荣椽，因以为檀台。
二十一年，魏围我邯郸。
二十二年，魏惠王拔我邯郸，齐亦败魏于桂陵。
二十四年，魏归我邯郸，与魏盟漳水上。
秦攻我蔺。
translation: 
He conquered Weiguo and captured seventy-three villages and towns.
Wei defeated Zhao Jun in Lin.
In four years, he fought with the Qin army in Gao'an and defeated it.
In the fifth year, he attacked the Qi army in Juancheng.
The Wei army defeated the Zhao army in Huai.
The Zhao army attacked the State of Zheng, defeated it, and gave the captured Zheng land to Han, and South Korea gave Changzi County to Zhao.
In six years, Zhongshan State built the Great Wall.
The Zhao army attacked Wei, defeated it at Huze, and besieged King Wei Hui.
In the seventh year, he attacked Qi and reached the Great Wall of Qi.
Jointly attack the Western Zhou Dynasty with South Korea.
In eight years, together with Korea, the Western Zhou Dynasty was divided into two parts.
In the ninth year, he fought with Qi State under Acheng.
In ten years, he attacked Weiguo and captured Zhencheng.
In the eleventh year, Qin attacked Wei, and Zhao Jun went to Shi'a to rescue him.
In the twelfth year, the Qin army attacked Shaoliang of Wei State, and the Zhao army went to rescue it.
In the thirteenth year, Duke Xiang of Qin sent a concubine named Guo to lead an army to attack Shaoliang of Wei State, and captured the crown prince of Wei State and Gongsun Cuo.
The Wei army defeated the Zhao army in the Huishui area and captured Pi Lao.
Chenghou and Han Zhaohou met in Shangdang.
In the fourteenth year, Zhao and Han attacked Qin together.
In the fifteenth year, Zhao Guo helped Wei Guo attack Qi.
In the 16th year, the State of Zhao, South Korea, and State of Wei divided the State of Jin. Confess Duanshi County to the King of Jin.
In the seventeenth year, Marquis Cheng and King Hui of Wei met in Ge Ni.
In the 19th year, Zhao State held an alliance meeting with Qi State and Song State in Pinglu, and met with Yan State in Xi'a League.
In the 20th year, Wei Guojin presented eaves and rafters made of high-quality wood, and then used these wooden rafters to build the sandalwood platform.
In the twenty-first year, the Wei army surrounded Handan.
In the 22nd year, King Hui of Wei captured Handan, and the Qi army also defeated the Wei army in Guiling.
In the twenty-fourth year, the State of Wei returned Handan to the State of Zhao, and the State of Zhao and the State of Wei swore an alliance on the shore of the Zhang River.
The Qin army attacked Lincheng of Zhao State.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
二十五年，成侯卒。
公子緤与太子肃侯争立，緤败，亡奔韩。
肃侯元年，夺晋君端氏，徙处屯留。
二年，与魏惠王遇于阴晋。
三年，公子范袭邯郸，不胜而死。
四年，朝天子。
六年，攻齐，拔高唐。
七年，公子刻攻魏首垣。
十一年，秦孝公使商君伐魏，虏其将公子卬。
赵伐魏。
十二年，秦孝公卒，商君死。
十五年，起寿陵。
魏惠王卒。
十六年，肃侯游大陵，出于鹿门，大戊午扣马曰： 耕事方急，一日不作，百日不食。
肃侯下车谢。
十七年，围魏黄，不克。
筑长城。
十八年，齐、魏伐我，我决河水灌之，兵去。
二十二年，张仪相秦。
赵疵与秦战，败，秦杀疵河西，取我蔺、离石。
二十三年，韩举与齐、魏战，死于桑丘。
二十四年，肃侯卒。
translation: 
In the twenty-fifth year, Chenghou passed away.
Gongzi Zhen and Prince Suhou competed for the throne. Zhao Zhen failed and fled to South Korea.
In the first year of Suhou's reign, he captured Jinjun's Duanshi County and moved Jinjun to Tunliu.
In the second year, he met King Hui of Wei in Yinjin.
In the third year, Prince Zhao Fan attacked Handan and died without victory.
For four years, he paid homage to the Emperor of Zhou.
In the sixth year, he attacked Qi and captured Gaotang.
In the seventh year, Prince Zhao Ke attacked the capital of Wei.
In the eleventh year, Duke Xiao of Qin sent Shang Yang to conquer Wei and captured the general and son of Wei, Zhao Xian.
Zhao State attacked Wei State.
In the twelfth year, Qin Xiaogong died, and Shang Yang also died.
In the fifteenth year, construction of Shouling began.
King Wei Hui passed away.
In the 16th year, Suhou visited Daling and passed by Lumen. Prime Minister Tai Wuwu held the horse's head and said: When farming is busy, if you don't cultivate for one day, you will have no food for a hundred days.
After hearing this, Suhou immediately got out of the car and admitted his mistake.
For seventeen years, Huangcheng, which besieged Wei State, was not conquered.
Build the Great Wall.
In the eighteenth year, Qi and Wei conquered the State of Zhao. The State of Zhao used water from the Yellow River to flood the enemy troops, and the enemy troops withdrew.
In the 22nd year, Zhang Yi was appointed prime minister of Qin.
Zhao Zun fought with the Qin army and failed. The Qin army killed Zhao Zun in Hexi and captured Lin and Lishi of Zhao State.
In the twenty-third year, Han Ju fought with the Qi and Wei armies and died in Sangqiu.
In the twenty-fourth year, Suhou died.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
秦、楚、燕、齐、魏出锐师各万人来会葬。
子武灵王立。
武灵王元年，阳文君赵豹相。
梁襄王与太子嗣、韩宣王与太子仓来朝信宫。
武灵王少，未能听政，博闻师三人，左右司过三人。
及听政，先问先王贵臣肥义，加其秩。国三老年八十，月致其礼。
三年，城鄗。
四年，与韩会于区鼠。
五年，娶韩女为夫人。
八年，韩击秦，不胜而去。
五国相王，赵独否，曰： 无其实，敢处其名乎！
令国人谓己曰 君 。
九年，与韩、魏共击秦。秦败我，斩首八万级。
齐败我观泽。
十年，秦取我中都及西阳。
齐破燕。燕相子之为君，君反为臣。
十一年，王召公子职于韩，立以为燕王，使乐池送之。
十三年，秦拔我蔺，虏将军赵庄。
楚、魏王来，过邯郸。
十四年，赵何攻魏。
十六年，秦惠王卒。
translation: 
Qin, Chu, Yan, Qi, and Wei each sent 10,000 elite soldiers to attend the funeral.
Suhou's son, King Wuling, ascended the throne.
In the first year of King Wuling, Yang Wenjun Zhao Bao was appointed prime minister.
King Xiang of Liang, Prince Si, King Xuan of Han and Prince Cang came to Xin Palace to congratulate.
King Wu Ling is young and cannot handle political affairs yet. He has three learned masters and three left and right officials.
When it comes to handling government affairs, the first thing to do is to greet the noble ministers of the late king, and to increase their rank and salary. The virtuous elderly people in the country who are over 80 years old give them gifts every month.
In the third year of King Wuling's reign, Ha City was built.
In the fourth year, he made an alliance with the King of Han in the District Rat Meeting.
Five years later, he married a Korean clan daughter.
In eight years, South Korea attacked Qin and withdrew without victory.
The five kingdoms called each other king, but only Zhao did not call himself king. Zhao Jun said: How can we have this title without reality?
He ordered everyone in Zhao to call him "Jun".
In the ninth year, he joined Han and Wei in attacking Qin. Qin defeated the armies of the three countries and killed 80,000 people.
Qi defeated Zhao Jun in Guanze.
In ten years, the Qin army captured Zhao's Zhongdu and Xiyang.
The state of Qi defeated the state of Yan, and the prime minister of the state of Yan, Zizhi, became the king, but the king instead became a minister.
In the eleventh year, King Wuling summoned the son of Yan State from South Korea, made him King of Yan, and sent Yuechi to escort him back to Yan State.
In the thirteenth year, the Qin army captured Zhao Ta's Lincheng and captured the general Zhao Zhuang.
The kings of Chu and Wei came to Zhao and reached Handan.
In the fourteenth year, Zhao He attacked Wei.
In the sixteenth year, King Qin Hui passed away.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
王游大陵。
他日，王梦见处女鼓琴而歌诗曰： 美人荧荧兮，颜若苕之荣。
命乎命乎，曾无我嬴！
异日，王饮酒乐，数言所梦，想见其状。
吴广闻之，因夫人而内其女娃嬴，孟姚也。
孟姚甚有宠于王，是为惠后。
十七年，王出九门，为野台，以望齐、中山之境。
十八年，秦武王与孟说举龙文赤鼎，绝膑而死。
赵王使代相赵固迎公子稷于燕，送归，立为秦王，是为昭王。
十九年春正月，大朝信宫。
召肥义与议天下，五日而毕。
王北略中山之地，至于房子，遂之代，北至无穷，西至河，登黄华之上。
召楼缓谋曰： 我先王因世之变，以长南藩之地，属阻漳、滏之险，立长城，又取蔺、郭狼，败林人于荏，而功未遂。
今中山在我腹心，北有燕，东有胡，西有林胡、楼烦、秦、韩之边，而无强兵之救，是亡社稷，奈何？
translation: 
King Wuling visited Daling.
One day, King Wu Ling dreamed of a girl playing the piano and singing a song: She is so beautiful, her appearance is like a wildflower.
O fate, O fate, no one knows my daughter-in-law’s name!
Another day, King Wuling was very happy while drinking. He talked about his dream many times and imagined the beauty of the girl in the dream.
After Wu Guang heard about it, he sent his daughter Waying to the palace through his wife.
This is Meng Yao. Meng Yao was especially favored by King Wu Ling, and she was Queen Hui.
In the seventeenth year, King Wu Ling went to Jiumen and built a wild platform to overlook the border between Qi and Zhongshan.
In the eighteenth year, King Wu of Qin and Meng Shuo lifted a red tripod with dragon patterns, broke his leg and died.
The King of Zhao sent his acting prime minister Zhao Gu to the Kingdom of Yan to meet Qin Gongzi Ji, send him back to the country, and established him as King of Qin. This was King Zhao of Qin.
In the first month of the spring of the nineteenth year of King Wuling, a grand court meeting was held in Xin Palace.
He summoned Fei Yi to discuss world affairs with him, and the conversation lasted five days before it ended.
King Wu Ling went to the north to inspect the territory of the Zhongshan Kingdom. He went to Fangfang County, then to Daidi, reaching Wuwu in the north, the Yellow River in the west, and climbed to the top of Huanghua Mountain.
Then he summoned Lou Huan for discussion and said: Our late king took advantage of the changes in world affairs and became the ruler of the southern territory. He connected the dangers of Zhangshui and Fushui, built the Great Wall, captured Lincheng and Guolang, and defeated the Linhu people in Edi. However, the work has not yet been completed.
Now the Zhongshan Kingdom is in our heart, with the Yan Kingdom to the north, Donghu to the east, and the borders of Linhu, Loufan, Qin, and South Korea to the west. However, without the rescue of powerful troops, the country will perish if this continues. What should we do?


Chunk 23: 
original: 
夫有高世之名，必有遗俗之累。
吾欲胡服。
楼缓曰： 善。
群臣皆不欲。
于是肥义侍，王曰： 简、襄主之烈，计胡、翟之利。
为人臣者，宠有孝弟长幼顺明之节，通有补民益主之业，此两者臣之分也。
今吾欲继襄主之迹，开于胡、翟之乡，而卒世不见也。
为敌弱，用力少而功多，可以毋尽百姓之劳，而序往古之勋。
夫有高世之功者，负遗俗之累；有独智之虑者，任骜民之怨。
今吾将胡服骑射以教百姓，而世必议寡人，奈何？
肥义曰： 臣闻疑事无功，疑行无名。
王既定负遗俗之虑，殆无顾天下之议矣。
夫论至德者不和于俗，成大功者不谋于众。
昔者舜舞有苗，禹袒裸国，非以养欲而乐志也，务以论德而约功也。
translation: 
To achieve a reputation that is higher than that of the world, one must be involved in deviating from customs.
I want to wear barbarian clothes.
Lou Huan said: Very good.
But none of the ministers were willing.
Fei Yi was serving at that time, and King Wu Ling said: The merits of the two rulers Jianzi and Xiangzi were that they considered the interests of Hu and Zhai.
As a minister, when you are favored, you should be filial, know your elders and children, and obey the principles. When you are wise, you should establish achievements that can benefit both the people and the king. These two points are the duties of a minister.
Now I want to inherit the cause of Lord Xiang and open up the land where the Hu people and Zhai people live, but I can't find such a wise minister in the world.
My purpose is to weaken the enemy and get twice the result with half the effort, so that I can continue the achievements of the two ancestors without using up the labor of the people.
Anyone who has great achievements in the world must bear the burden of abandoning customs; those who have unique wisdom must submit to the complaints of the arrogant people.
Now I want to wear a barbarian costume, ride a horse and shoot arrows, and use this to coach the people, but the world will definitely talk about me, what should I do?
Fei Yi said: I heard that if you hesitate in doing something, you will not succeed, and if you hesitate in taking action, you will not become famous.
Since you have decided to accept the blame for betraying customs, there is no need to worry about the opinions of the people in the world.
Those who pursue the highest morality will not conform to the world, and those who have achieved great achievements will not seek to negotiate with ordinary people.
In the past, Shun used dance to influence the three seedlings, and Yu took off his shirt when he went to the naked country. They did not do it to satisfy their desires and please their minds, but they had to use this method to promote virtue and achieve success.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
愚者暗成事，智者睹未形，则王何疑焉？
王曰： 吾不疑胡服也，吾恐天下笑我也。
狂夫之乐，智者哀焉；愚者所笑，贤者察焉。
世有顺我者，胡服之功未可知也。
虽驱世以笑我，胡地中山吾必有之。
于是遂胡服矣。
使王緤告公子成曰： 寡人胡服，将以朝也，亦欲叔服之。
家听于亲而国听于君，古今之公行也。
子不反亲，臣不逆君，兄弟之通义也。
今寡人作教易服而叔不服，吾恐天下议之也。
制国有常，利民为本；从政有经，令行为上。
明德先论于贱，而行政先信于贵。
今胡服之意，非以养欲而乐志也。
事有所止而功有所出，事成功立，然后善也。
今寡人恐叔之逆从政之经，以辅叔之议。
且寡人闻之，事利国者行无邪，因贵戚者名不累，故愿慕公叔之义，以成胡服之功。
translation: 
Foolish people can't understand the true meaning of things until things succeed, but smart people can see things clearly when there are no signs. So why are you hesitating, my king?
King Wu Ling said: I don't hesitate to wear Hu clothes. I'm worried that people in the world will laugh at me.
The happiness of the ignorant is the sadness of the wise; the wise can see clearly what the fools laugh at.
There are people in the world who obey me, and the effect of wearing Hu clothing is immeasurable.
Even if everyone in the world laughs at me, I will definitely take possession of Hu Di and Zhongshan Country.
So I put on Hufu.
King Wu Ling sent Wang Jie to tell the young master Cheng: "I am going to go to court like this wearing Hu clothes, and I also hope that my uncle will wear it."
You should obey your parents in family affairs, and you should obey the king in state affairs. This is a code of conduct recognized by ancient and modern times.
Children cannot disobey their parents, and ministers cannot disobey the monarch. This is a common principle among brothers.
Now I am making decrees and changing my clothes, but if you don't wear them, uncle, I'm afraid the whole world will talk about it.
There are routines for governing the country, and benefiting the people is fundamental; there are routines for handling political affairs, and it is most important to follow orders.
Propaganda of virtuous government must start with the common people, and implementation of administrative decrees must first get the nobility to obey.
The purpose of wearing Hufu today is not to satisfy desires and please the mind; things must achieve a certain purpose before the work can be completed.
Things are done, achievements are established, and then things are considered proper.
Now I am afraid that my uncle has violated the principles of handling political affairs, so I have come to help my uncle think about it.
Moreover, I have heard that if you do things that are beneficial to the country, your behavior will not be biased; those who rely on noble relatives will not suffer damage to their reputation. Therefore, I am willing to rely on my uncle's loyalty to achieve the effect of Hu Fu.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
使緤谒之叔，请服焉。
公子成再拜稽首曰： 臣固闻王之胡服也。臣不佞，寝疾，未能趋走以滋进也。
王命之，臣敢对，因竭其愚忠。
曰：臣闻中国者，盖聪明徇智之所居也，万物财用之所聚也，圣贤之所教也，仁义之所施也，《诗》《书》礼乐之所用也，异敏技能之所试也，远方之所观赴也，蛮夷之所义行也。今王舍此而袭远方之服，变古之教，易古人道，逆人之心，而怫学者，离中国，故臣愿王图之也。
使者以报。
王曰： 吾固闻叔之疾也，我将自往请之。
王遂往之公子成家，因自请之，曰： 夫服者，所以便用也；礼者，所以便事也。
圣人观乡而顺宜，因事而制礼，所以利其民而厚其国也。
夫剪发文身，错臂左衽，瓯越之民也。
黑齿雕题，却冠秫绌，大吴之国也。
故礼服莫同，其便一也。
乡异而用变，事异而礼易。
是以圣人果可以利其国，不一其用；果可以便其事，不同其礼。
儒者一师而俗异，中国同礼而教离，况于山谷之便乎？
故去就之变，智者不能一；远近之服，贤圣不能同。
穷乡多异，曲学多辩。
不知而不疑，异于己而不非者，公焉而众求尽善也。
今叔之所言者俗也，吾所言者所以制俗也。
translation: 
I sent Wang Jie to pay homage to my uncle and ask you to put on Hu clothes.
Master Cheng kowtowed again and said: I have heard about your Majesty wearing Hu clothes. I have no talent. I am ill in bed and cannot go around to do my best.
The king ordered me, and I answered boldly to fulfill my foolish loyalty.
I heard that China is a place where smart and wise people live, a place where all wealth and wealth are gathered, a place where sages teach, a place where benevolence and righteousness can be practiced, a place where people from afar are willing to come and visit, and a place where barbarians are happy to imitate. Now that your Majesty has abandoned these and put on the clothes of a distant place, changed the ancient teachings, changed the ancient righteousness, violated the will of everyone, abandoned the teachings of scholars, and stayed away from Chinese customs, so I hope that your Majesty will consider this matter carefully.
The messenger went back and reported truthfully.
King Wu Ling said: I originally knew that my uncle was ill, so I wanted to go and plead with him personally.
King Wu Ling then went to the young master Cheng's home and asked him personally, saying: "Clothes are for ease of wearing, and etiquette is for ease of conduct."
The sage observes local customs and adapts to local customs, and formulates etiquette according to actual conditions. This is to benefit the people and enrich the country.
It is the custom of Ouyue people to cut off their hair, get tattoos on their bodies, paint on their arms, and leave their clothes open on the left side.
His teeth were stained black and he had tattoos on his forehead. Wearing fish skin hats and clothes with thick needles and threads is the custom of the great Wu Kingdom.
Therefore, the ceremonial clothing varies from place to place, but for convenience, it is the same.
The use will change in different places, and the etiquette will also change according to different things.
Therefore, the sage believes that if it can benefit the country, the methods do not need to be the same; if it can be done conveniently, the etiquette does not need to be the same.
Confucians were taught by the same master but have different customs. The etiquette in the Central Plains was the same but the education was different. How much more for the convenience of remote areas?
Therefore, the changes in the choice of advance and retreat cannot be consistent among wise people; nor can the sages be able to make the clothing of distant places and those of near places the same.
There are many different customs in remote areas, and the knowledge is shallow but full of sophistry.
Only those who do not doubt what they do not understand and do not criticize opinions that are different from their own can impartially learn from the opinions of others in order to achieve perfection.
Now what my uncle is saying is worldly view, and what I am saying is to stop worldly view.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
吾国东有河、薄洛之水，与齐、中山同之，无舟楫之用。
自常山以至代、上党，东有燕、东胡之境，而西有楼烦、秦、韩之边，今无骑射之备。
故寡人无舟楫之用，夹水居之民，将何以守河、薄洛之水；变服骑射，以备燕、三胡、秦、韩之边？
且昔者简主不塞晋阳以及上党，而襄主并戎取代以攘诸胡，此愚智所明也。
先时中山负齐之强兵，侵暴吾地，系累吾民，引水围鄗，微社稷之神灵，则鄗几于不守也。
先王丑之，而怨未能报也。
今骑射之备，近可以便上党之形，而远可以报中山之怨。
而叔顺中国之俗以逆简、襄之意，恶变服之名以忘鄗事之丑，非寡人之所望也。
公子成再拜稽首曰： 臣愚，不达于王之义，敢道世俗之闻，臣之罪也。
今王将继简、襄之意以顺先王之志，臣敢不听命乎！
再拜稽首。
乃赐胡服。
明日，服而朝。
translation: 
There is the Yellow River and Boluojin in the east of our country, which are shared by Qi State and Zhongshan State, but there are no boating facilities.
From Changshan to Daidi and Shangdang, to the east are the borders of Yan State and Donghu State, and to the west are the borders of Loufan State, Qin State, and South Korea. Now there is no equipment for cavalry and archery.
So I think if there are no boat facilities, what will the people living on both sides of the river use to guard the waters of the Yellow River and Boluo? The purpose of changing clothes and practicing riding and shooting is to defend the borders with Yan, Sanhu, Qin and Han.
Moreover, in the past, Lord Jian did not set up fortresses in Jinyang and Shangdang. Lord Xiang annexed military lands and attacked the country in order to exclude the barbarians from all over the country. This is something that both fools and wise men can understand.
In the past, the Zhongshan State relied on the strong military power of the Qi State to invade and trample our land, plunder our people, and divert water to besiege Haocheng. If it were not for the blessing of the gods of Sheji, Haocheng would have almost been lost.
The late king was ashamed of this, but this revenge has not yet been avenged.
Now that we have the equipment of cavalry and archery, we can make Shangdang's terrain more favorable in the near future, and avenge the Zhongshan Kingdom in the distant future.
However, my uncle followed the customs of the Central Plains, violated the wishes of Master Jian and Master Xiang, hated the reputation of subjugation, and forgot the shame of being trapped in Haocheng. This is not what I hope.
Prince Cheng kowtowed again and said, "I am stupid. I failed to understand the profound meaning of your Majesty. I dared to talk about worldly opinions. This is my sin."
Now the king wants to inherit the legacy of Master Jian and Master Xiang and obey the wishes of the late king. How dare I disobey the king's order!
When the young master succeeds, he will bow again and kowtow.
King Wu Ling then gave him Hufu.
The next day, he put on Hufu and went to court.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
于是始出胡服令也。
赵文、赵造、周袑、赵俊皆谏止王毋胡服，如故法便。
王曰： 先王不同俗，何古之法？
帝王不相袭，何礼之循？
虙戏、神农教而不诛，黄帝、尧、舜诛而不怒。
及至三王，随时制法，因事制礼。
法度制令各顺其宜，衣服器械各便其用。
故礼也不必一道，而便国不必古。
圣人之兴也不相袭而王，夏、殷之衰也不易礼而灭。
然则反古未可非，而循礼未足多也。
且服奇者志淫，则是邹、鲁无奇行也；俗辟者民易，则是吴、越无秀士也。
且圣人利身谓之服，便事谓之礼。
夫进退之节，衣服之制者，所以齐常民也，非所以论贤者也。
故齐民与俗流，贤者与变俱。
故谚曰 以书御者不尽马之情，以古制今者不达事之变 。
循法之功，不足以高世；法古之学，不足以制今。
子不及也。
遂胡服招骑射。
translation: 
At this time, King Wuling began to issue orders to change into Hu clothes.
Zhao Wen, Zhao Zao, Zhou Yu, and Zhao Jun all came to dissuade King Wu Ling from wearing Hu clothes. It was more appropriate to follow the original method.
King Wu Ling said: The customs of the previous kings were different. Which ancient method can be imitated?
If emperors don't follow each other's rules, what etiquette can be followed?
Fuxi and Shennong focused on education and not punishment; Huangdi, Yao, and Shun used punishment, but not cruelty.
In the Xia, Shang and Zhou Dynasties, the kings formulated laws and regulations according to the times, and prescribed etiquette according to the actual situation.
Laws and regulations are in compliance with actual needs, and clothes and equipment are easy to use.
Therefore, etiquette does not have to be just one way, and to facilitate the country, there is no need to imitate the ancients.
The rise of saints did not follow each other but they unified the world. The decline of Xia and Yin did not change the ritual system and finally perished.
So, it is understandable to violate the ancient rules, and it is not unworthy of praise to follow the old etiquette.
If people with strange costumes are said to have loose spirits, then there will be no people with strange behaviors in Zou and Lu. If people in places with strange customs are thoughtless, then there will be no outstanding talents in Wu and Yue.
Moreover, the sage believes that as long as it is beneficial to the body, it can be called clothing, and as long as it is convenient for doing things, it can be called etiquette.
The etiquette of advancing and retreating, and the system of clothing are stipulated so that common people can follow them uniformly, not to criticize sages.
Therefore, the common people always accompany the vulgarity, but the wise people go with the changes.
Therefore the proverb says: A person who drives a cart according to books will not understand the temperament of a horse; a person who uses ancient methods to restrain this world does not understand the changes of things.
The efficacy of following ancient laws cannot be superior to the secular world; it is impossible to govern this world by practicing ancient doctrines.
You don’t understand this!
Finally, Hu uniforms were implemented and soldiers were recruited to practice riding and shooting.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
二十年，王略中山地，至宁葭。西略胡地，至榆中。
林胡王献马。
归，使楼缓之秦，仇液之韩，王贲之楚，富丁之魏，赵爵之齐。
代相赵固主胡，致其兵。
二十一年，攻中山。
赵袑为右军，许钧为左军，公子章为中军，王并将之。牛翦将车骑，赵希并将胡、代。
赵与之陉，合军曲阳，攻取丹丘、华阳、鸱之塞。
王军取鄗、石邑、封龙、东垣。
中山献四邑和，王许之，罢兵。
二十三年，攻中山。
二十五年，惠后卒。
使周袑胡服傅王子何。
二十六年，复攻中山。攘地北至燕、代，西至云中、九原。
二十七年五月戊申，大朝于东宫，传国，立王子何以为王。
王庙见礼毕，出临朝。
大夫悉为臣，肥义为相国，并傅王。
是为惠文王。
惠文王，惠后吴娃子也。
translation: 
In the 20th year of King Wuling, King Wuling captured the land of Zhongshan and reached Ningjia; he also captured the land of the Hu people in the west and reached Yuzhong.
King Linhu presented horses.
After returning, he sent Lou Huan to Qin, Qiu Lie to South Korea, Wang Ben to Chu, Fu Ding to Wei, and Zhao Jue to Qi.
Let Zhao Gu, the acting prime minister, take charge of the Hu region and recruit soldiers from the Hu region.
In the twenty-first year, he attacked Zhongshan Kingdom.
Zhao Yuan led the right army, Xu Jun led the left army, Gongzizhang led the middle army, King Wuling led the three armies, Niu Jian led the chariots and cavalry, and Zhao Xi led Hu Yudai's soldiers together.
Zhao Xi and other troops passed through the pass and joined forces at Quyang, where they captured Danqiu, Huayang and Lushang Pass.
King Wuling led his army to capture Haocheng, Shiyi, Fenglong and Dongyuan.
Zhongshan offered four cities for peace, and King Wuling agreed and withdrew his troops to cease the war.
In the twenty-third year, he attacked Zhongshan Kingdom again.
In the twenty-fifth year, Queen Hui passed away.
He sent Zhou Yuan to wear Hu robes to assist and teach Prince Zhao He.
In the twenty-sixth year, he attacked Zhongshan Kingdom again and captured land as far as Yan and Dai in the north and as far as Yunzhong and Jiuyuan in the west.
On Wushen Day in May of the 27th year, a grand court meeting was held in the East Palace. King Wuling passed on the throne and made Prince Zhao He the king.
After the new king went to the ancestral temple to pay homage to his ancestors, he came out to attend court.
The officials are all ministers, Feiyi is appointed as the prime minister, and they are the masters of the new king.
This is King Huiwen.
King Huiwen was the son of Empress Hui Wuwa.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
武灵王自号为主父。
主父欲令子主治国，而身胡服将士大夫西北略胡地，而欲从云中、九原直南袭秦，于是诈自为使者入秦。
秦昭王不知，已而怪其状甚伟，非人臣之度，使人逐之，而主父驰已脱关矣。
审问之，乃主父也。
秦人大惊。
主父所以入秦者，欲自略地形，因观秦王之为人也。
惠文王二年，主父行新地，遂出代，西遇楼烦王于西河而致其兵。
三年，灭中山，迁其王于肤施。
起灵寿，北地方从，代道大通。
还归，行赏，大赦，置酒酺五日，封长子章为代安阳君。
章素侈，心不服其弟所立。
主父又使田不礼相章也。
李兑谓肥义曰： 公子章强壮而志骄，党众而欲大，殆有私乎？
田不礼之为人也，忍杀而骄。
translation: 
King Wu Ling calls himself the master father.
The master's father wanted his son to govern the country, so he put on Hu clothes and led the scholar-bureaucrats to the northwest to inspect the Hu land. He also wanted to attack Qin from Yunzhong and Jiuyuan to the south, so he disguised himself as an envoy and entered Qin.
King Zhao of Qin didn't notice, and was surprised that his appearance was particularly tall and uncharacteristic of a minister. He immediately sent someone to chase him, but his father had already galloped out of the Qin pass.
After asking carefully, I found out that it was the master's father.
The people of Qin were very frightened.
The reason why the master's father entered the Qin Kingdom was to personally inspect the terrain and take the opportunity to observe the behavior of the King of Qin.
In the second year of King Huiwen, the master's father inspected the newly occupied land, so he left Daidi and went west to meet King Loufan at Xihe and recruited his soldiers.
In three years, the Zhongshan Kingdom was destroyed and the king of Zhongshan was moved to Fushi County.
Start building Lingshou City. The land in the north began to belong to the State of Zhao, and the road to Dai was greatly smoothed.
After returning, he was rewarded based on his merits, implemented a general amnesty, held a banquet and drank for five days, and named his eldest son Zhao Zhang as the Anyang Lord of the place.
Zhao Zhang was always indulgent and dissatisfied with his younger brother's succession to the throne.
The master's father also sent Tian Buli to assist Zhao Zhang.
Li Dui said to Fei Yi: "Gongzi Zhang is in his prime and has an arrogant ambition. He has many followers and is very ambitious. I am afraid he may have selfish motives!"
Tian Buli is cruel and arrogant.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
二人相得，必有谋阴贼起，一出身徼幸。
夫小人有欲，轻虑浅谋，徒见其利而不顾其害，同类相推，俱入祸门。
以吾观之，必不久矣。
子任重而势大，乱之所始，祸之所集也，子必先患。
仁者爱万物而智者备祸于未形，不仁不智，何以为国？
子傒不称疾毋出，传政于公子成？
毋为怨府，毋为祸梯。 肥义曰： 不可。
昔者主父以王属义也，曰： 毋变而度，毋异而虑，坚守一心，以殁而世。
义再拜受命而籍之。
今畏不礼之难而忘吾籍，变孰大焉。
进受严命，退而不全，负孰甚焉。
变负之臣，不容于刑。
谚曰 死者复生，生者不愧 。
吾言已在前矣，吾欲全吾言，安得全吾身！
且夫贞臣也难至而节见，忠臣也累至而行明。
子则有赐而忠我矣，虽然，吾有语在前者也，终不敢失。
李兑曰： 诺，子勉之矣！
吾见子已今年耳。
translation: 
These two people are in sync with each other, and there will definitely be conspiracy and chaos. Once they hope to succeed by chance, they will take risks.
When villains are ambitious, they will be rash when thinking about things, and they will be superficial in their plans. They only see benefits and ignore the harm. If accomplices encourage each other, they will walk into the door of disaster together.
As far as I'm concerned, this won't happen for long.
You bear great responsibilities and hold great power. Turmoil will begin from you, and disasters will concentrate on you. You must be the first to encounter disasters.
A benevolent man loves all things, and a wise man takes preventive measures before they happen. How can a country be governed without benevolence or wisdom?
Why don't you claim to be sick and stay away from home, handing over political affairs to Young Master Cheng?
Don't be a place where resentment gathers, don't be a stepping stone for disaster. Fei Yi said: No.
When the Lord and Father entrusted the new king to me, he said: Do not change your laws, do not change your heart, and remain single-minded until your death.
I bowed again to accept the king's order and recorded it.
Now I am afraid that Tian Buli will cause trouble and forget the king's orders that I have recorded. What sin is greater than betrayal!
I entered the palace to accept a solemn royal order, but failed to fulfill it after leaving the palace. Is there any greater injustice than this?
The punishment for betraying an unfaithful minister is intolerable.
The proverb says that if the dead comes back to life, the living should not feel ashamed in front of him.
What I said earlier is that if I want to fully fulfill my promise, how can I care about my body!
Moreover, a loyal minister's integrity will show up when disaster strikes, and a loyal minister must behave clearly when encountering trouble.
You have taught me and given me counsel. Despite this, I have already said it before and I never dare to go against it.
Li Dui said: Well, do your best!
I can see you only this year.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
涕泣而出。
李兑数见公子成，以备田不礼之事。
异日肥义谓信期曰： 公子与田不礼甚可忧也。
其于义也声善而实恶，此为人也不子不臣。
吾闻之也，奸臣在朝，国之残也；谗臣在中，主之蠹也。
此人贪而欲大，内得主而外为暴。
矫令为慢，以擅一旦之命，不难为也，祸且逮国。
今吾忧之，夜而忘寐，饥而忘食。
盗贼出入不可不备。
自今以来，若有召王者必见吾面，我将先以身当之，无故而王乃入。
信期曰： 善哉，吾得闻此也！
四年，朝群臣，安阳君亦来朝。
主父令王听朝，而自从旁观窥群臣宗室之礼。
见其长子章傫然也，反北面为臣，诎于其弟，心怜之，于是乃欲分赵而王章于代，计未决而辍。
translation: 
After saying that, he burst into tears and left.
Li Dui went to see Gongzi Cheng several times to prevent Tian Buli from causing trouble.
Another day, Fei Yi said to Xinqi: "Gongzi Zhang and Tian's disrespect is very worrying."
They spoke nice to me but were actually very bad. They were unfilial and unfaithful.
I have heard that treacherous ministers in the court are a scourge to the country; slanderous ministers in the palace are a worm to the monarch.
This kind of person is greedy and ambitious. When the monarch favors him in the palace, he goes out to do evil and misbehaves.
It is arrogant and rude to falsely convey the king's order. Once an order is issued without authorization, it is not difficult to do so, and the disaster will endanger the country.
Now I worry about it, forgetting to sleep at night, and forget to eat when I am hungry.
Beware of thieves.
From now on, if someone asks to see the king, he must meet with me. I must resist him with myself first. Only if there is no change can the king come in.
Xinqi said: Great, I can hear this!
In the fourth year of King Huiwen's reign, all ministers came to pay homage, and Lord Anyang also came to pay homage.
The master's father asked the new king to preside over the worship, and he secretly observed the etiquette of the ministers and royal family members.
Seeing the dejected look of his eldest son Zhao Zhang, who instead surrendered to the north and bowed before his younger brother, he felt pity for him. At that time, he wanted to divide the Zhao country into two and make Zhao Zhang the king of the country. This plan was aborted without a decision.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
主父及王游沙丘，异宫，公子章即以其徒与田不礼作乱，诈以主父令召王。
肥义先入，杀之。
高信即与王战。
公子成与李兑自国至，乃起四邑之兵入距难，杀公子章及田不礼，灭其党贼而定王室。
公子成为相，号安平君，李兑为司寇。
公子章之败，往走主父，主父开之，成、兑因围主父宫。
公子章死，公子成、李兑谋曰： 以章故围主父，即解兵，吾属夷矣。
乃遂围主父。
令宫中人 后出者夷 ，宫中人悉出。
主父欲出不得，又不得食，探爵而食之，三月余而饿死沙丘宫。
主父定死，乃发丧赴诸侯。
是时王少，成、兑专政，畏诛，故围主父。
主父初以长子章为太子，后得吴娃，爱之，为不出者数岁，生子何，乃废太子章而立何为王。
吴娃死，爱弛，怜故太子，欲两王之，犹豫未决，故乱起，以至父子俱死，为天下笑，岂不痛乎！
主父死，惠文王立立。
translation: 
The master father and King Huiwen visited the sand dunes and lived in different palaces. Gongzizhang used his disciple Hetian Buli to cause trouble and summoned King Huiwen with false orders from his father.
Fei Yi went in first and was killed.
Gao Xinliji and King Huiwen fought against Gongzi Zhang.
Prince Cheng and Li Dui arrived from the capital and mobilized troops from four cities to resist the rebellion. They killed Prince Zhang and Tian Buli, wiped out their followers, and pacified the royal family.
The young master was appointed prime minister, with the title Lord Anping, and Li Dui was appointed Sikou.
When Gongzi Zhang was defeated, he fled to his master's father, who took him in. Prince Cheng and Li Dui then surrounded his master's palace.
After the death of Gongzizhang, Gongzicheng and Li Dui discussed: Because Zhao Zhang has surrounded his father, even if we withdraw our troops, the whole clan of us will be killed!
So he continued to surround his father's palace.
He ordered the people in the palace to kill the last person who came out, and everyone in the palace came out.
The father wanted to go to the palace but could not get out and could not get food, so he had to hunt for chicks to satisfy his hunger. He died of starvation in the Sand Dune Palace more than three months later.
The master's father's death was certain, and then the obituary notice was issued to the princes.
At that time, King Huiwen was young, and his sons Cheng and Li Dui had sole power. They were afraid of being killed, so they besieged their father.
At first, the master's father made his eldest son Zhao Zhang the crown prince, but later he got Wu Wa and doted on her very much. For this reason, he stayed away from Wu Wa's palace for several years. After giving birth to his son Zhao He, he abolished Prince Zhang and made Zhao He the king.
After Wu Wa's death, her love for Zhao He became weaker and weaker, and she began to pity the original prince again. She wanted to make her two sons kings simultaneously, but she was always hesitant. Therefore, an accident happened, and the father and son died together, and were laughed at by everyone in the world. How can it not be regrettable!
The master's father died, and King Huiwen succeeded him.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
五年，与燕鄚、易。
八年，城南行唐。
九年，赵梁将，与齐合军攻韩，至鲁关下。
及十年，秦自置为西帝。
十一年，董叔与魏氏伐宋，得河阳于魏。
秦取梗阳。
十二年，赵梁将攻齐。
十三年，韩徐为将，攻齐。
公主死。
十四年，相国乐毅将赵、秦、韩、魏、燕攻齐，取灵丘。
与秦会中阳。
十五年，燕昭王来见。
赵与韩、魏、秦共击齐，齐王败走，燕独深入，取临菑。
十六年，秦复与赵数击齐，齐人患之。
苏厉为齐遗赵王书曰：
臣闻古之贤君，其德行非布于海内也，教顺非洽于民人也，祭祀时享非数常于鬼神也。
甘露降，时雨至，年谷丰孰，民不疾疫，众人善之，然而贤主图之。
translation: 
In the fifth year of King Huiwen, the State of Zhao gave the lands of Min and Yi to the State of Yan.
In eight years, the southbound Tang City was built.
In the ninth year, Zhao Liang led the troops and jointly attacked South Korea with Qi State, all the way to Lu Pass.
By ten years, Qin claimed to be the Western Emperor.
In the eleventh year, Uncle Dong and the Wei family conquered the Song Dynasty and captured Heyang in the Wei Kingdom.
Qin captured Gan Yang.
In the twelfth year, Zhao Liang led troops to attack Qi.
In the thirteenth year, Han Xu was the commander-in-chief and attacked Qi.
The princess died in the same year.
In the fourteenth year, the prime minister of Yan State, Le Yi, led the five-state coalition of Zhao, Qin, Han, Wei, and Yan to attack Qi State and captured Lingqiu.
King Zhao and King Qin met in Zhongyang.
In the fifteenth year, King Zhao of Yan came to meet King Zhao.
Zhao State joined forces with Han, Wei, and Qin to attack Qi. The king of Qi was defeated and fled. The Yan army went deep alone and captured Linzi City.
In the sixteenth year, Qin and Zhao attacked Qi several times, which made the people of Qi very worried.
Su Li wrote a letter to King Zhao for the State of Qi, saying in the letter:
I heard that for the wise kings in ancient times, their virtues were not spread all over the sea, their education was not spread to all the people, and the offerings of the four seasons were not always enjoyed by their ancestors.
However, the dew fell everywhere, the rain was timely, the grain harvest was abundant, and the people were free from diseases. Everyone praised this, but the wise master had to think deeply.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
今足下之贤行功力，非数加于秦也；怨毒积怒，非素深于齐也。
秦赵与国，以强征兵于韩，秦诚爱赵乎？
其实憎齐乎？
物之甚者，贤主察之。
秦非爱赵而憎齐也，欲亡韩而吞二周，故以齐餤天下。
恐事之不合，故出兵以劫魏、赵。
恐天下畏己也，故出质以为信。
恐天下亟反也，故征兵于韩以威之。
声以德与国，实而伐空韩，臣以秦计为必出于此。
夫物固有势异而患同者，楚久伐而中山亡，今齐久伐而韩必亡。
破齐，王与六国分其利也。
亡韩，秦独擅之。
收二周，西取祭器，秦独私之。
赋田计功，王之获利孰与秦多？
说士之计曰： 韩亡三川，魏亡晋国，市朝未变而祸已及矣。
translation: 
Nowadays, your virtue and skill are not always shown to Qin; your accumulated resentment and anger are not always particularly deep in Qi.
Qin and Zhao united and forced South Korea to send troops. Does Qin really love Zhao?
Does it really hate Qi?
If something goes too far, the wise master should observe it carefully.
Qin did not love Zhao and hate Qi, but wanted to destroy Korea and annex the Eastern and Western Zhou Dynasties, deliberately using Qi as bait to attract the world.
He was afraid that the matter would not succeed, so he sent troops to coerce Wei and Zhao.
And he was afraid that all the countries in the world would be afraid of him, so he sent hostages to gain his trust.
He was also afraid that all the countries in the world would soon oppose it, so he conscripted troops in South Korea as a threat.
On the surface, it is said to be beneficial to the allies, but in fact it is to conquer the empty South Korea. I think Qin's strategy must be based on this aspect.
Things have different situations but the same disaster. Chu State has been attacked for a long time but Zhongshan State has been destroyed. Now Qi State has been attacked for a long time and South Korea must be destroyed.
After conquering Qi, your Majesty will share the benefits with the other six countries.
After destroying South Korea, Qin will take possession of it alone.
After occupying it for two weeks, you can get the ritual vessels for the emperor's sacrifice to the west, and the Qin State will monopolize them.
When granting land, the benefits must be calculated. Your Majesty, who has received more benefits than Qin?
The lobbyists discussed: South Korea loses Sanchuan, Wei loses Jin, and the city and dynasty have not yet changed, and disaster is about to come.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
燕尽齐之北地，去沙丘、钜鹿敛三百里，韩之上党去邯郸百里，燕、秦谋王之河山，间三百里而通矣。
秦之上郡近挺关，至于榆中者千五百里，秦以三郡攻王之上党，羊肠之西，句注之南，非王有已。
逾句注，斩常山而守之，三百里而通于燕，代马胡犬不东下，昆山之玉不出，此三宝者亦非王有已。
王久伐齐，从强秦攻韩，其祸必至于此。
愿王孰虑之。
且齐之所以伐者，以事王也；天下属行，以谋王也。
燕秦之约成而兵出有日矣。
五国三分王之地，齐倍五国之约而殉王之患，西兵以禁强秦，秦废帝请服，反高平、根柔于魏，反巠分、先俞于赵。
齐之事王，宜为上佼，而今乃抵罪，臣恐天下后事王者之不敢自必也。
愿王孰计之也。
今王毋与天下攻齐，天下必以王为义。齐抱社稷而厚事王，天下必尽重王。
秦义，王以天下善秦；秦暴，王以天下禁之，是一世之名宠制于王也。
translation: 
After the Yan State occupied all the northern land of Qi State, it was three hundred miles away from the sand dunes and giant deer. The Shangdang of South Korea was one hundred miles away from Handan. The Yan State and the Qin State conspired to seize Zhao's rivers and mountains, and they could collude through a small road three hundred miles away.
Qin's Shangjun is close to Tingguan and is 1,500 miles away from Yuzhong. If Qin relies on the three counties to attack Zhao's Shangdang, the west of Yangchangban and the south of Gouzhu Mountain will no longer be yours.
Crossing Juzhu Mountain, cutting off Changshan and stationing there, it is only three hundred miles away from Yan State. From now on, Dai Ma Hu Dog will no longer enter Zhao State from the east, and the jade from Kunshan will not be transported to Zhao State. These three treasures will no longer be owned by the king.
Your Majesty has been attacking Dai Qi for a long time, and following the strong Qin to attack South Korea, the disaster will definitely reach this point.
I hope you will give it more consideration.
Moreover, the reason why Qi State was attacked was because it served the king; the armies of various countries gathered together just to bring trouble to the king.
As soon as the alliance between Yan and Qin was concluded, the day of sending troops was not far away.
The five countries wanted to divide the land of Zhao into three parts. Qi betrayed the five-nation alliance and sacrificed itself to relieve Zhao's troubles. It marched westward to suppress the powerful Qin, causing Qin to abolish the imperial title and ask for surrender. It returned Gaoping and Genrou to Wei, and returned Xianfen and Xianyu to Zhao.
Qi State's service to the king should be said to be the highest form of friendship. Now that Qi State has been asked to plead guilty, I worry that the country that serves the king will not dare to be so resolute in the future.
I hope your Majesty will consider it carefully.
Now that the king will not attack Qi with other countries, all countries in the world will definitely think that the king is upholding justice. Qi will hold the country and the country and serve the king more wholeheartedly. All countries in the world will definitely respect the justice of the king.
The king can lead all countries to be friendly with Qin. If Qin is violent, the king will lead all countries to suppress it. In this way, the reputation and glory of the whole life will be controlled by the king.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
于是赵乃辍，谢秦不击齐。
王与燕王遇。
廉颇将，攻齐昔阳，取之。
十七年，乐毅将赵师攻魏伯阳。
而秦怨赵不与己击齐，伐赵，拔我两城。
十八年，秦拔我石城。
王再之卫东阳，决河水，伐魏氏。
大潦，漳水出。
魏冉来相赵。
十九年，秦取我二城。
赵与魏伯阳。
赵奢将，攻齐麦丘，取之。
二十年，廉颇将，攻齐。
王与秦昭王遇西河外。
二十一年，赵徙漳水武平西。
二十二年，大疫。
置公子丹为太子。
二十三年，楼昌将，攻魏几，不能取。
十二月，廉颇将，攻几，取之。
二十四年，廉颇将，攻魏房子，拔之，因城而还。
又攻安阳，取之。
二十五年，燕周将，攻昌城、高唐，取之。
与魏共击秦。秦将白起破我华阳，得一将军。
二十六年，取东胡欧代地。
二十七年，徙漳水武平南。
封赵豹为平阳君。
河水出，大潦。
二十八年，蔺相如伐齐，至平邑。
罢城北九门大城。
燕将成安君公孙操弑其王。
二十九年，秦、韩相攻，而围阏与。
赵使赵奢将，击秦，大破秦军阏与下，赐号为马服君。
三十三年，惠文王卒，太子丹立，是为孝成王。
孝成王元年，秦伐我，拔三城。
赵王新立，太后用事，秦急攻之。
赵氏求救于齐，齐曰： 必以长安君为质，兵乃出。
translation: 
So Zhao State stopped advancing troops, declined Qin State, and stopped attacking Qi State.
King Huiwen and King Yan met.
Lian Po led his troops to attack Xiyang in Qi State and captured it.
In the seventeenth year of King Huiwen, Le Yi led the Zhao army to attack Boyang of Wei.
Qin resented Zhao for not attacking Qi with it, so it sent troops to attack Zhao and captured two of Zhao's cities.
In the eighteenth year, Qin captured Zhao's Shicheng.
King Zhao once again went to Dongyang in Wei, broke open the dam of the Yellow River, and conquered Wei.
Floods caused disasters and the Zhang River overflowed.
Wei Ran came to Zhao State to serve as prime minister.
In the 19th year, the Qin army captured two cities of Zhao.
Zhao Guo returned Boyang to Wei Guo.
The State of Zhao asked Zhao She to lead the army to attack Maiqiu of the State of Qi and captured it.
Twenty years later, Lian Po led his troops to attack Qi.
King Zhao and King Zhao of Qin met outside Xihe.
In the 21st year, Zhao Guo changed the water channel of Zhangshui to the west of Wuping.
In the twenty-second year, the plague spread on a large scale.
Make Gongzi Dan the crown prince.
In the twenty-third year, Lou Chang led his troops to attack several cities of Wei State, but failed to capture them.
In December, Lian Po led his troops to attack several more cities and occupied them.
In the twenty-fourth year, Lian Po led his troops to attack Wei's house. After conquering it, he built a wall before returning.
He also attacked Anyang and captured it.
In the twenty-fifth year, Yan and Zhou led troops to attack Changcheng and Gaotang, and conquered them all.
Zhao and Wei attacked Qin together. Qin's general Bai Qi defeated the Zhao army in Huayang and captured a Zhao general.
In the twenty-sixth year, he regained the land that Donghu had forced to rebel.
In the twenty-seventh year, the Zhang River was redirected to the south of Wuping.
Zhao Bao was granted the title of Lord Pingyang.
The Yellow River overflowed and floods caused disasters.
In the twenty-eighth year, Lin Xiangru conquered Qi and reached Pingyi.
Stop building the big city in Jiumen County to the north.
Generals Cheng Anjun and Gongsun Cao of Yan killed their king.
In the twenty-ninth year, Qin and Han assisted Zhao and surrounded Yan Yu.
The State of Zhao sent Zhao She to lead troops to attack the Qin army and defeated the Qin army at the gate of Yanyu City. King Zhao gave him the title of Ma Fujun.
In the thirty-third year, King Huiwen died and Prince Dan came to the throne. This was King Xiaocheng.
In the first year of King Xiaocheng's reign, Qin attacked Zhao and captured three cities.
King Zhao had just ascended the throne and the Queen Mother took power, and Qin stepped up its attack.
Zhao State asked Qi State for help, and the King of Qi said: "You must let Lord Chang'an come as a hostage before you can send troops."


Chunk 37: 
original: 
太后不肯，大臣强谏。
太后明谓左右曰： 复言长安君为质者，老妇必唾其面。
左师触龙言愿见太后，太后盛气而胥之。
入，徐趋而坐，自谢曰： 老臣病足，曾不能疾走，不得见久矣。
窃自恕，而恐太后体之有所苦也，故愿望见太后。
太后曰： 老妇恃辇而行耳。
曰： 食得毋衰乎？
曰： 恃粥耳。
曰： 老臣间者殊不欲食，乃强步，日三四里，少益嗜食，和于身也。
太后曰： 老妇不能。
太后不和之色少解。
左师公曰： 老臣贱息舒祺最少，不肖，而臣衰，窃怜爱之，愿得补黑衣之缺以卫王宫，昧死以闻。 太后曰： 敬诺。
年几何矣？
对曰： 十五岁矣。
虽少，愿及未填沟壑而托之。
太后曰： 丈夫亦爱怜少子乎？
对曰： 甚于妇人。
太后笑曰： 妇人异甚。
对曰： 老臣窃以为媪之爱燕后贤于长安君。
太后曰： 君过矣，不若长安君之甚。
左师公曰： 父母爱子，则为之计深远。
媪之送燕后也，持其踵，为之泣，念其远也，亦哀之矣。
translation: 
The Queen Mother refused, and the ministers tried their best to remonstrate.
The Queen Mother clearly said to her left and right: If anyone comes back to talk about letting Lord Chang'an as a hostage, the old woman will definitely spit in his face.
Zuo Shichulong said that he wanted to see the Queen Mother, but the Queen Mother was waiting for him angrily.
After Chulong entered the palace, he walked slowly and took small steps and sat down. He apologized and said, "Old minister, I have a problem with my feet. I can't run fast. It's been a long time since I came to see you."
I forgive myself privately, but I am afraid that the Queen Mother is not feeling well, so I really want to visit the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother said: Old woman, I rely on chariots to move around.
Chulong said: Your diet has not been reduced, right?
The Queen Mother said: Just drink porridge.
Chulong said: Sir, I don't feel like eating lately, so I force myself to take a walk. I walk three or four miles every day, which increases my appetite somewhat and makes my body more comfortable.
The Queen Mother said: Old woman, I can't do it.
The Queen Mother's uneasy expression softened slightly.
Master Zuo said to the dragon: My son Shu Qi is the youngest and has no future, but I am already old and love him very much. I hope he can fill the vacancy of the black guards to defend the palace. I risk death to report to you. The Queen Mother said: OK!
How old are you?
Answered: Fifteen years old.
Although he is not old yet, I hope to entrust him to you before I am buried.
The Queen Mother said: Do you men also love your youngest son?
He answered: More than women.
The Queen Mother smiled and said: Women love even more.
Chu Long said: Privately, I think you love Empress Yan more than Lord Chang'an.
The Queen Mother said: You are wrong, it is much worse than loving Mr. Chang'an.
Master Zuo said: Parents who love their children should consider them thoughtfully and long-term.
When you sent Queen Yan off to get married, you held her heels and cried for her. You felt sorry for her when you thought that she was going so far away.


Chunk 38: 
original: 
已行，非不思也，祭祀则祝之曰 必勿使反 。岂非计长久，为子孙相继为王也哉？ 太后曰： 然。
左师公曰： 今三世以前，至于赵主之子孙为侯者，其继有在者乎？
曰： 无有。
曰： 微独赵，诸侯有在者乎？
曰： 老妇不闻也。
曰： 此其近者祸及其身，远者及其子孙。
岂人主之子侯则不善哉？
位尊而无功，奉厚而无劳，而挟重器多也。
今媪尊长安君之位，而封之以膏腴之地，多与之重器，而不及今令有功于国，一旦山陵崩，长安君何以自托于赵？
老臣以媪为长安君之计短也，故以为爱之不若燕后。
太后曰： 诺，恣君之所使之。
于是为长安君约车百乘，质于齐，齐兵乃出。
子义闻之，曰： 人主之子，骨肉之亲也，犹不能持无功之尊，无劳之奉，而守金玉之重也，而况于予乎？
translation: 
After leaving, it's not that I didn't miss her, but during the sacrifice, I prayed, "Never let her come back." Isn't it because of her long-term plan, hoping that her descendants can inherit the throne? The Queen Mother said: Yes.
Zuo Shigong said: From now on to three generations ago, until the descendants of every monarch in the Zhao Kingdom were granted the title of marquis, are their heirs still in office?
The Queen Mother said: No more.
Chulong said: Not only Zhao, but also the descendants of princes from all over the world, are there any heirs still in office?
The Queen Mother said: This old woman has never heard of it.
Chulong said: This is because disasters that are close to you will fall on you, and disasters that are far away will fall on your descendants.
Is it not bad for the descendants of a monarch to be ennobled?
It is because they have an honorable status but no merit, a generous salary but no achievements, and they have too many precious treasures.
Now that you have honored Lord Chang'an, granted him fertile land, and given him many valuable treasures, but if you don't let him serve the country now, how can Lord Chang'an establish himself in the State of Zhao once you bid farewell to this world?
The old minister thinks that you are short-sighted in your plans for Lord Chang'an, so I think it is better to love Queen Yan than to love him.
The Queen Mother said: Well, you can send him wherever you want!
So a hundred chariots were prepared for Lord Chang'an, and they all came together to serve as hostages. Only then did Qi send troops.
When Ziyi heard about this, he said: The son of a monarch, who has a family relationship of flesh and blood, cannot enjoy honor without meritorious deeds, cannot enjoy salary without merit, and thus cannot keep precious treasures such as gold and jade, let alone people like us?


Chunk 39: 
original: 
齐安平君田单将赵师而攻燕中阳，拔之。
又攻韩注人，拔之。
二年，惠文后卒。
田单为相。
四年，王梦衣偏裻之衣，乘飞龙上天，不至而坠，见金玉之积如山。
明日，王召筮史敢占之。曰： 梦衣偏裻之衣者，残也。
乘飞龙上天不至而坠者，有气而无实也。
见金玉之积如山者，忧也。
后三日，韩氏上党守冯亭使者至，曰： 韩不能守上党，入之于秦。
其吏民皆安为赵，不欲为秦。
有城市邑十七，愿再拜入之赵，财王所以赐吏民。
王大喜，召平阳君豹告之曰： 冯亭入城市邑十七，受之何如？
对曰： 圣人甚祸无故之利。
王曰： 人怀吾德，何谓无故乎？
对曰： 夫秦蚕食韩氏地，中绝不令相通，固自以为坐而受上党之地也。
韩氏所以不入于秦者，欲嫁其祸于赵也。
秦服其劳而赵受其利，虽强大不能得之于小弱，小弱顾能得之于强大乎？
translation: 
Tiandan, Lord Anping of Qi State, led the Zhao army to attack Zhongyang of Yan State and captured it.
The enemy who attacked Korea again were also captured.
In the second year of King Xiaocheng's reign, Queen Huiwen died.
Tian Dan was appointed as the prime minister of Zhao.
In the fourth year, King Xiaocheng dreamed of wearing two-colored clothes and riding a flying dragon to the sky. He fell down before reaching the sky and saw mountains of gold and jade.
The next day, King Xiaocheng summoned a historian named Gan to divine fortune. He said: Wearing left and right clothes in a dream symbolizes incompleteness.
Riding a flying dragon to fly to the sky but then falling down before reaching the sky symbolizes momentum but no strength.
Seeing gold and jade piled up like a mountain symbolizes sorrow.
Three days later, Feng Ting, the guard general of Shangdang in South Korea, sent an envoy to Zhao. He said: If South Korea cannot hold Shangdang, it will be merged with Qin.
The officials and people there were willing to belong to the State of Zhao but not to the State of Qin.
Shangdang has seventeen cities and is willing to surrender to the State of Zhao again. Please judge how the king shows kindness to the officials and the people.
King Xiaocheng was overjoyed and summoned Pingyang Lord Zhao Bao to tell him: "Does Feng Ting offer seventeen cities? How about accepting it?"
Zhao Bao replied: The sage regards unprovoked benefits as great harm.
King Xiaocheng said: People are inspired by my kindness, how can you say it is for no reason?
Zhao Bao replied: The Qin State encroached on South Korea's land and immediately cut it off, preventing the two sides from communicating with each other. I originally thought that I would get the Shangdang's land safely.
The reason why South Korea did not submit to Qin was because it wanted to blame Zhao.
Qin has worked hard but Zhao has benefited in vain. Even strong and big countries cannot benefit from small and weak countries at will. Can small and weak countries benefit from strong and big countries?


Chunk 40: 
original: 
岂可谓非无故之利哉！
且夫秦以牛田之水通粮蚕食，上乘倍战者，裂上国之地，其政行，不可与为难，必勿受也。
王曰： 今发百万之军而攻，逾年历岁未得一城也。
今以城市邑十七币吾国，此大利也。
赵豹出，王召平原君与赵禹而告之。
对曰： 发百万之军而攻，逾岁未得一城，今坐受城市邑十七，此大利，不可失也。 王曰： 善。
乃令赵胜受地，告冯亭曰： 敝国使者臣胜，敝国君使胜致命，以万户都三封太守，千户都三封县令，皆世世为侯，吏民皆益爵三级，吏民能相安，皆赐之六金。
冯亭垂涕不见使者，曰： 吾不处三不义也：为主守地，不能死固，不义一矣；入之秦，不听主令，不义二矣；卖主地而食之，不义三矣。
赵遂发兵取上党。
廉颇将军军长平。
六年，廉颇免而赵括代将。
translation: 
How can we say this is not an unwarranted benefit?
Moreover, Qin State used the waterways of Niutian to transport grain and encroached on Korea. It used its best tanks to fight hard and divide the land of Korea. Its decree has been implemented. You cannot be an enemy of it and you must not accept it.
King Xiaocheng said: Now if we send out a million troops to attack, we will not be able to get a single city in a year and a half.
Now people have given seventeen cities as gifts to our country. This is great benefit!
After Zhao Bao went out, King Xiaocheng summoned Lord Pingyuan and Zhao Yu to tell them about the incident.
They replied: If we send out an army of millions to attack, we will not be able to get a single city in a year. Now we have obtained seventeen cities in vain. Such a huge bargain cannot be thrown away. King Xiaocheng said: OK.
So Zhao Sheng was sent to receive the land. Zhao Sheng told Feng Ting: I am Zhao Sheng, the envoy of our country. The monarch of our country sent me to convey the order. Grant three cities with thousands of households to the prefects, and three cities with thousands of households to each county magistrate.
Feng Ting shed tears and did not see the envoy. He said: I cannot be in the position of three injustices: guarding the land for the monarch and not being able to defend it to the death, which is one injustice; the king of Han transferred Shangdang to Qin State, but I did not obey the monarch's order, which is two injustices; selling the monarch's land to get a reward, which is three injustices.
Zhao then sent troops to occupy Shangdang.
Lian Po led his troops to Changping.
In the sixth year of King Xiaocheng's reign, Lian Po was dismissed from his post and Zhao Kuo succeeded him in leading the army.


Chunk 41: 
original: 
秦人围赵括，赵括以军降，卒四十余万皆坑之。
王悔不听赵豹之计，故有长平之祸焉。
王还，不听秦，秦围邯郸。
武垣令傅豹、王容、苏射率燕众反燕地。
赵以灵丘封楚相春申君。
八年，平原君如楚请救。
还，楚来救，及魏公子无忌亦来救，秦围邯郸乃解。
十年，燕攻昌壮，五月拔之。
赵将乐乘、庆舍攻秦信梁军，破之。
太子死。
而秦攻西周，拔之。
徒父祺出。
十一年，城元氏，县上原。
武阳君郑安平死，收其地。
十二年，邯郸烧。
十四年，平原君赵胜死。
十五年，以尉文封相国廉颇为信平君。
燕王令丞相栗腹约驩，以五百金为赵王酒，还归，报燕王曰： 赵氏壮者皆死长平，其孤未壮，可伐也。
translation: 
Qin general Bai Qi led his army to surround Zhao Kuo. Zhao Kuo died in the battle and the Zhao army surrendered. More than 400,000 soldiers were killed.
King Xiaocheng regretted not listening to Zhao Bao's advice, which led to the disaster of Changping.
King Xiaocheng returned to the capital and refused to agree to Qin's request, so the Qin army besieged Handan.
Wu Yuan ordered Fu Bao, Wang Rong, and Su She to lead the Yan people to return to Yan.
The State of Zhao granted Lingqiu to Chun Shenjun, the prime minister of the State of Chu.
In the eighth year, Lord Pingyuan went to Chu State to ask for help.
After returning home, the Chu army came to rescue, and Wei's son Wuji also came to rescue. Only then did Qin lift the siege of Handan.
In the tenth year, the Yan army attacked Changzhuang and captured it in May.
Zhao's generals Lecheng and Qingshe attacked Qin's Xinliang army and defeated him.
The prince of Zhao died.
The Qin State attacked the Western Zhou State and captured it.
Tu Fuqi led the troops out of the country.
In the eleventh year, Yuanshi City was built and Shangyuan County was established.
Wu Yangjun Zheng Anping died and his fiefdom was recovered.
In the twelfth year, the fodder warehouse in Handan was burned down.
In the fourteenth year, Pingyuan Lord Zhao Sheng passed away.
In the fifteenth year, Wei Wen was granted the title of Prime Minister Lian Po and was given the title of Lord Xin Ping.
The King of Yan sent Prime Minister Li Fu to make good friends with the State of Zhao and sent 500 kilograms of gold to the King of Zhao to celebrate his birthday. After returning home, Li Fu reported to King Yan: All the strong men of Zhao died in Changping, and their orphans have not grown up yet. We can go to conquer.


Chunk 42: 
original: 
王召昌国君乐闲而问之。
对曰： 赵，四战之国也，其民习兵，伐之不可。 王曰： 吾以众伐寡，二而伐一，可乎？ 对曰： 不可。
王曰： 吾即以五而伐一，可乎？
对曰： 不可。
燕王大怒。
群臣皆以为可。
燕卒起二军，车二千乘，栗腹将而攻鄗，卿秦将而攻代。
廉颇为赵将，破杀栗腹，虏卿秦、乐闲。
十六年，廉颇围燕。
以乐乘为武襄君。
十七年，假相大将武襄君攻燕，围其国。
十八年，延陵钧率师从相国信平君助魏攻燕。
秦拔我榆次三十七城。
十九年，赵与燕易土：以龙兑、汾门、临乐与燕；燕以葛、武阳、平舒与赵。
二十年，秦王政初立。
秦拔我晋阳。
二十一年，孝成王卒。
廉颇将，攻繁阳，取之。
使乐乘代之，廉颇攻乐乘，乐乘走，廉颇亡入魏。
子偃立，是为悼襄王。
悼襄王元年，大备魏。
translation: 
King Yan summoned King Chang Guo Le Xian to question him.
Le Xian replied: Zhao is a country surrounded by enemies. Its people have received military training and cannot attack it. King Yan said: "We attack the few with more, two against one, okay?" Answered: No.
King Yan said: Then I will use five to fight one, okay?
He replied: No.
King Yan was furious.
All the officials thought it was okay.
The State of Yan finally dispatched two armies with two thousand chariots. Li Fu led his army to attack Haocheng, and Qing Qin led his army to attack Daidi.
Lian Po was the general of Zhao State. He defeated and killed Li Fu, and captured Qing Qin and Le Xian.
In the sixteenth year, Lian Po besieged the capital of Yan.
King Zhao named Lecheng Lord Wu Xiang.
In the seventeenth year, acting prime minister General Wu Xiangjun attacked Yan and surrounded its capital.
In the 18th year, Yanlingjun led the army and followed the Prime Minister Xinping Jun Lianpo to help Wei attack Yan.
The Qin army captured thirty-seven cities in the Yuci area of ​​Zhao State.
In the 19th year, Zhao State and Yan State exchanged territory: Zhao State gave Longdui, Fenmen, and Linle to Yan State; Yan State gave Gecheng, Wuyang, and Pingshu to Zhao State.
Twenty years ago, King Qin Yingzheng had just ascended the throne.
The Qin army captured Jinyang of Zhao State.
In the twenty-first year, King Xiaocheng passed away.
Lian Po led his troops to attack Fanyang and captured it.
King Zhao sent Lecheng to replace Lianpo, Lianpo attacked Lecheng, Lecheng escaped, and Lianpo fled to Wei.
Zhao Yan, the son of King Xiaocheng, came to the throne and became King Mouxiang.
In the first year of mourning for King Xiang, he made good friends with the state of Wei with great gifts.


Chunk 43: 
original: 
欲通平邑、中牟之道，不成。
二年，李牧将，攻燕，拔武遂、方城。
秦召春平君，因而留之。
泄钧为之谓文信侯曰： 春平君者，赵王甚爱之而郎中妒之，故相与谋曰 春平君入秦，秦必留之 。
故相与谋而内之秦也。
今君留之，是绝赵而郎中之计中也。
君不如遣春平君而留平都。
春平君者言行信于王，王必厚割赵而赎平都。
文信侯曰： 善。
因遣之。
城韩皋。
三年，庞暖将，攻燕，禽其将剧辛。
四年，庞暖将赵、楚、魏、燕之锐师，攻秦蕞，不拔；移攻齐，取饶安。
五年，傅抵将，居平邑；庆舍将东阳河外师，守河梁。
六年，封长安君以饶。
魏与赵邺。
九年，赵攻燕，取狸、阳城。
兵未罢，秦攻邺，拔之。
translation: 
He tried to build a road to Pingyi and Zhongmu in the state of Wei, but failed.
In the second year of King Mouxiang's reign, Li Mu led his troops to attack Yan State and captured Wu Sui and Fangcheng.
The State of Qin summoned Lord Chunping of Zhao State and detained him in Qin State on some pretext.
Xie Jun said on his behalf in front of Qin Xiang Wenxin Hou Lu Buwei: Chunping Jun, King Zhao loves him very much, but the doctors are jealous of him, so they discussed with each other: When Chunping Jun comes to Qin, Qin will definitely detain him.
So they discussed together to send Lord Chunping to Qin.
Now that you are detaining him, you are severing the relationship with Zhao Guo, and you have just fallen into the tricks of those doctors.
You might as well send Chunping-kun back and let him stay in Pingdu.
Chunping Jun's words and deeds are trusted by King Zhao, and King Zhao will definitely cede a lot of land to redeem Pingdu.
Marquis Wenxin said: OK.
So Chunpingjun was sent back to Zhao State.
Zhao Guo built a city in Han Gao.
In the third year of King Xiang's mourning, Pang Nuan led his troops to attack Yan State and captured Yan State's general Ju Xin.
In four years, Pang Nuan led the elite troops of Zhao, Chu, Wei, and Yan to attack Qin's territory, but failed to conquer it. He then moved his troops to attack Qi and captured Rao'an.
In the fifth year, Fu Da led troops and stationed in Pingyi; Qing She led troops from Dongyang and Hebei to guard the bridges of the Yellow River.
Six years ago, King Zhao granted Raoyang to Lord Chang'an.
Wei State gave Ye to Zhao State.
In the ninth year of King Xiang's reign, Zhao State attacked Yan State and captured Licheng and Yangcheng.
Before withdrawing its troops, Qin came to attack Ye and captured it.


Chunk 44: 
original: 
悼襄王卒，子幽缪王迁立。
幽缪王迁元年，城柏人。
二年，秦攻武城，扈辄率师救之，军败，死焉。
三年，秦攻赤丽、宜安，李牧率师与战肥下，却之。
封牧为武安君。
四年，秦攻番吾，李牧与之战，却之。
五年，代地大动，自乐徐以西，北至平阴，台屋墙垣太半坏，地坼东西百三十步。
六年，大饥，民讹言曰： 赵为号，秦为笑。
以为不信，视地之生毛。
七年，秦人攻赵，赵大将李牧、将军司马尚将，击之。
李牧诛，司马尚免，赵匆及齐将颜聚代之。
赵匆军破，颜聚亡去。
以王迁降。
八年十月，邯郸为秦。
太史公曰：吾闻冯王孙曰： 赵王迁，其母倡也，嬖于悼襄王。
悼襄王废适子嘉而立迁。
迁素无行，信谗，故诛其良将李牧，用郭开。
岂不缪哉！
秦既虏迁，赵之亡大夫共立嘉为王，王代六岁，秦进兵破嘉，遂灭赵以为郡。
translation: 
King Zhao Daoxiang died, and his son King Youmiao Zhao Qian came to the throne.
In the first year of Zhao Qian, King Youmiao, he built a city in Bairen.
In the second year, the Qin army attacked Wucheng, and Hu Le led the army to rescue. The army was defeated and Hu Le died in battle.
In the third year, the Qin army attacked Chili and Yi'an. Li Mu led his troops to fight with the Qin army under Feicheng and defeated the Qin army.
King Zhao granted Li Mu the title of Lord Wu'an.
In the fourth year, the Qin army attacked Fanwu, and Li Mu fought with the Qin army and drove it back.
In the fifth year, a major earthquake occurred in Dai, from the west of Lexu to the north of Pingyin. Most of the buildings, houses, and walls were destroyed, and a chasm 130 paces wide from east to west opened in the ground.
In the sixth year, there was a great famine in the State of Zhao, and a folk song spread among the people: The people of Zhao are crying, and the people of Qin are laughing.
If you don’t believe it, just see if there are seedlings growing in the field.
In the seventh year, the Qin army attacked the State of Zhao. General Li Mu and General Sima Shang of the State of Zhao led their troops to counterattack the Qin army.
Li Mu was framed and killed, Sima Shang was dismissed, and Zhao Chong and Qi General Yan Ju took over their posts.
Zhao Chong was defeated and Yan Ju fled.
Therefore, Zhao Wangqian surrendered.
In October of the eighth year, Handan belonged to the State of Qin.
Tai Shigong said: I heard Feng Wangsun say: Zhao Wangqian, his mother was a singer, and was favored by King Mouxiang.
King Mouxiang deposed his legitimate son Zhao Jia and established Zhao Qian as the crown prince.
Zhao Qian had always behaved improperly and listened to slander, so he killed Zhao Guoliang's general Li Mu and re-employed Guo Kai.
Isn't this ridiculous?
After the Qin State captured Zhao Qian, the fugitive officials of the Zhao State jointly supported Zhao Jia as king, and he reigned as king in Dai for six years. Qin invaded and defeated Zhao Jia, finally destroyed Zhao and changed it into a county.


