Chunk 0: 
original: 
窦融字周公，扶风平陵人也。
七世祖广国，孝文皇后之弟，封章武侯。
融高祖父，宣帝时以吏二千石自常山徙焉。
融早孤。
王莽居摄中，为强弩将军司马，东击翟义，还攻槐里，以军功封建武男。
女弟为大司空王邑小妻。
家长安中，出入贵戚，连结闾里豪杰，以任侠为名；然事母兄，养弱弟，内修行义。
王莽末，青、徐贼起，太师王匡请融为助军，与共东征。
及汉兵起，融复从王邑败于昆阳下，归长安。
汉兵长驱入关，王邑荐融，拜为波水将军，赐黄金千斤，引兵至新丰。
莽败，融以军降更始大司马赵萌，萌以为校尉，甚重之，荐融为巨鹿太守。
translation: 
◆Dou Rong's Biography: Dou Rong's courtesy name was Duke of Zhou, and he was a native of Pingling County, Fufeng County.
Dou Guangguo, the seventh generation ancestor, was the younger brother of Queen Xiaowen and was named Zhang Wuhou.
His great-great-grandfather moved from Changshan with two thousand stones as an official during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
Dou Rong has been an orphan since he was a child.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he was the Sima of Wang Jun, the strong crossbow general. He attacked Zhaiyi in the east and Huaili. He was named Jianwu Nan for his military merits.
The younger sister is the younger wife of the great Sikong Wangyi.
He lived in Chang'an, visited noble families, made friends with local heroes, and was famous for his chivalry and righteousness. However, he served his mother and elder brother and raised his weak younger brother, practicing benevolence and righteousness.
In the last years of Wang Mang, bandits broke out in Qingzhou and Xuzhou. Wang Kuang, the Grand Master, asked Dou Rong to help the army and join him in the eastern expedition.
When the Han army rose, Dou Rong was defeated by Wang Yi at Kunyangxia and returned to Chang'an.
When the Han army commander entered the pass, Wang Yi recommended Dou Rong as General Bo Shui, rewarded him with a thousand catties of gold, and led his troops to Xinfeng.
When Wang Mang was defeated, Dou Rong led his army and surrendered to Zhao Meng, the commander-in-chief of Gengshi. Zhao Meng regarded Dou Rong as a school captain and thought highly of him. He recommended Dou Rong to be the prefect of Julu.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
融见更始新立，东方尚扰，不欲出关，而高祖父尝为张掖太守，从祖父为护羌校尉，从弟亦为武威太守，累世在河西，知其土俗，独谓兄弟曰： 天下安危未可知，河西殷富，带河为固，张掖属国精兵万骑，一旦缓急，杜绝河津，足以自守，此遗种处也。 兄弟皆然之。
融于是日往守萌，辞让巨鹿，图出河西。
萌为言更始，乃得为张掖属国都尉。
融大喜，即将家属而西。
既到，抚结雄杰，怀辑羌虏，甚得其欢心，河西翕然归之。
是时，酒泉太守梁统、金城太守厙钧、张掖都尉史苞、酒泉都尉竺曾、敦煌都尉辛肜，并州郡英俊，融皆与为厚善。
及更始败，融与梁统等计议曰： 今天下扰乱，未知所归。
河西斗绝在羌湖中，不同心戮力则不能自守；权钧力齐，复无以相率。
当推一人为大将军，共全五郡，观时变动。 议既定，而各谦让，咸以融世任河西为吏，人所敬向，乃推融行河西五郡大将军事。
是时，武威太守马期、张掖太守任仲并孤立无党，乃共移书告示之，二人即解印绶去。
于是以梁统为武威太守，史苞为张掖太守，竺曾为酒泉太守，辛肜为敦煌太守，厙钧为金城太守。
融居属国，领都尉职如故，置从事监察五郡。
河西民俗质朴，而融等政亦宽和，上下相亲，晏然富殖。
修兵马，习战射，明烽燧之警，羌胡犯塞，融辄自将与诸郡相救，皆如符要，每辄破之。
其后匈奴惩乂，稀复侵寇，而保塞羌胡皆震服亲附，安定、北地、上郡流人避凶饥者，归之不绝。
融等遥闻光武即位，而心欲东向，以河西隔远，未能自通。
translation: 
When Dou Rong saw the new establishment and the chaos in the east, he didn't want to leave the country. He remembered that his great-great-grandfather was the governor of Zhangye, his grandfather was the captain of the Qiang Guard, and his younger brother was the governor of Wuwei. They had been in Hexi for several generations and knew the local customs, so he said to his brothers alone: The safety of the world is still unknown. Hexi is rich and fertile, and the Yellow River is very strong. Zhangye's vassal state has thousands of elite soldiers and cavalry. In the event of an emergency, it will be enough to defend itself by eliminating the crossing of the Yellow River. This is a good place for us to leave to our descendants.
The brothers all agreed. Dou Rong asked to see Zhao Meng that day, resigned as Julu governor, and asked to go to Hexi.
Zhao Meng told Gengshi, and he became the captain of Zhangye's vassal state.
Dou Rong was so happy that he took his family to the northwest.
When he arrived in Zhangye, he made friends with local heroes and lived in harmony with the ethnic minorities. He was very popular with the people from all over the world, and Hexi quickly surrendered to him.
At this time, Liang Tong, the prefect of Jiuquan, Shejun, the prefect of Jincheng, Shi Bao, the captain of Zhangye, Zhu Zeng, the captain of Jiuquan, Xin Xu, the captain of Dunhuang, and all the heroes of the prefectures and counties, Dou Rong treated them kindly.
When Gengshi failed, Dou Rong and Liang Tong discussed the situation and said: "Today there is chaos in the world, I don't know what the outcome will be."
Hexi is in a dangerous position between Qiang and Hu. Without concerted efforts, we cannot defend ourselves. The power is generally great, and there is no leader.
One person should be elected as a general to ensure the security of the five counties and observe changes in the current situation. After deliberation, it was decided that Dou Rong should be the general of the five counties in Hexi.
At this time, Ma Qi, the governor of Wuwei, and Ren Zhong, the governor of Zhangye, were both isolated and had no party members, so they jointly informed them in letters, and they took off their seals and resigned.
So Liang Tong was appointed as the prefect of Wuwei, Shi Bao as the prefect of Zhangye, Zhu Zeng as the prefect of Jiuquan, Xin Xu as the prefect of Dunhuang, and Shengou as the prefect of Jincheng.
Dou Rong still lives in the vassal state, and his concurrent post as captain remains unchanged, and he is assigned to supervise the five counties.
The folk customs in Hexi are simple, and the politics of Dou Rong and others are also tolerant. They are friendly to each other, and they are safe and prosperous.
He repaired his troops and horses, practiced archery, and sounded the beacon fire alarm at the border. When Qiang and barbarians invaded the border fortress, Dou Rong often led his troops to rescue the troops together with the counties. He always arrived as scheduled and often defeated the invaders.
Later, the Huns also learned their lesson and rarely invaded again. The Qiang and Hu who were attached to the fortress were frightened by their relatives, and the homeless people who suffered from starvation in Anding, Beidi, Shangjun and other places came back in an endless stream.
When Dou Rong and others heard that Guangwu had ascended the throne, they wanted to go east to Luoyang, because the river and the west were far apart and could not be reached by themselves.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
时，隗嚣先称建武年号，融等从受正朔，嚣皆假其将军印绶。
嚣外顺人望，内怀异心，使辩士张玄游说河西曰： 更始事业已成，寻复亡灭，此一姓不再兴之效。
今即有所主，便相系属，一旦拘制，自令失柄，后有危殆，虽悔无及。
今豪杰竞逐，雌雄未决，当各据其土宇，与陇、蜀合从，高可为六国，下不失尉佗。 融等于是召豪杰及诸太守计议，其中智者皆曰： 汉承尧运，历数延长。
今皇帝姓号见于图书，自前世博物道术之士谷子云、夏贺良等，建明汉有再受命之符，言之久矣，故刘子骏改易名字，冀应其占。
及莽末，道士西门君惠言刘秀当为天子，遂谋立子骏。
事觉被杀，出谓百姓观者曰： 刘秀真汝主也。
皆近事暴著，智者所共见也。
除言天命，且以人事论之：今称帝者数人，而洛阳土地最广，甲兵最强，号令最明。
观符命而察人事，它姓殆未能当也。 诸郡太守各有宾客，或同或异。
translation: 
At this time, Wei Xiao first took the title of Jianwu, Dou Rong and others accepted Zhengshuo, and Wei Xiao all pretended to be his general's seal and ribbon.
Kuai Xiao looked obedient to others but harbored dissatisfaction inside. He sent the debater Yong Lian to lobby Hexi and said: Gengshi became emperor and soon fell into ruin. This is the result of a surname that cannot be revived.
Now if you identify a master and establish a relationship of dependence with him, once you are controlled by him, the power in your hands will be lost. If you encounter danger in the future, you will regret it.
Now the heroes are competing, and the outcome is undecided. They should each occupy their territory and join forces with Long and Shu. If you are high, you can become the king of a country like the Six Kingdoms, and if you are low, you can be a captain of the South China Sea like Zhao Tuo. Dou Rong summoned the heroes and prefects to discuss the matter together. The brave and wise among them all said: The Han Dynasty inherited the lineage of Yao and cultivated it for a long time.
Now the emperor's surname is found in the Hetu Chifu Fu Book. Since the ancient Taoist scholars Gu Ziyun and Xia Heliang have revealed that the Han Dynasty will receive the talisman again, it has been said a long time ago, so Liu Zijun changed his name to Liu Xiu in the hope that the talisman will be fulfilled.
In Wang Mang's last years, the Taoist priest Ximen Junhui said that Liu Xiu should be the emperor, so he prepared to establish Liu Zijun.
After the incident was discovered, Liu Zijun was killed. The people watching said: Liu Xiu is really your master.
This was exposed not long ago and is common to all wise people.
Let’s not talk about destiny, but let’s comment on human affairs: there are countless people who are now emperors, and Luoyang has the largest land, the strongest armored soldiers, and the clearest orders.
Observing fortune and personnel, he is probably incompetent for the position of emperor. The prefects of various counties each had guests, some of whom were in favor and some who were against it.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
融小心精详，遂决策东向。
五年夏，遣长史刘钧奉书献马。
先是，帝闻河西完富，地接陇、蜀，常欲招之以逼嚣、述，亦发使遗融书，遇钧于道，即与俱还。
帝见钧欢甚，礼飨毕，乃遣令还，赐融玺书曰： 制诏行河西五郡大将军事、属国都尉：劳镇守边五郡，兵马精强，仓库有蓄，民庶殷富，外则折挫羌胡，内则百姓蒙福。
威德流闻，虚心相望，道路隔塞，邑邑何已！
长史所奉书献马悉至，深知厚意。
今益州有公孙子阳、天水有隗将军，方蜀、汉相攻，权在将军，举足左右，便有轻重。
以此言之，欲相厚岂有量哉！
诸事具长史所见，将军所知。
王者迭兴，千载一会。
欲遂立桓、文，辅微国，当勉卒功业；欲三分鼎足，连衡合从，亦宜以时定。
translation: 
Dou Rong made a detailed comparative analysis and decided to go eastward.
In the summer of the fifth year, Liu Jun, the commander-in-chief, was sent to present a letter and horses to Guangwu.
First, the emperor heard that Hexi was complete and wealthy, bordering Long and Shu. He often wanted to recruit Dou Rong to force Kaixiao and Gongsun Shu, so he sent an envoy to write to Dou Rong. He happened to meet Liu Jun on the road, so they returned together.
The emperor was very happy to see Liu Jun, received him very politely, and asked him to go back. He gave Dou Rong a seal saying: The imperial edict is to act as the general of the five counties in Hexi Province in military affairs and the capital of the country. I wish you to guard the five frontier counties with strong soldiers and horses, abundant warehouses, and rich people. You have defeated the Qiang and Hu invasions externally, and enabled the people to live a happy life internally.
I heard about the mighty virtue, and I looked at it humbly, but the road was blocked, which made me despair!
I have received all the books and horses presented by Chang Shi, and I am fully aware of your kindness.
Today there is Gongzi Yang in Yizhou, and General Wei in Tianshui. Shu and Han are attacking each other, and the power lies in the hands of the general. You can see the importance by making a move.
From this point of view, is there a limit to a close relationship?
Everything has been seen by the long history and known by the general.
The rise of kings is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
If you want to establish the cause of Qi Huan, Jin Wen, and assist the small country, you should work hard to complete the assisting work; if you want to make three tripods, connecting horizontally and vertically, you should also depend on the time.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
天下未并，吾与尔绝域，非相吞之国。
今之议者，必有任嚣效尉佗制七郡之计。
王者有分土，无分民，自适己事而已。
今以黄金二百斤赐将军，便宜辄言。 因授融为凉州牧。
玺书既至，河西咸惊，以为天子明见万里之外，网罗张立之情。
融即复遣钧上书曰： 臣融窃伏自惟，幸得托先后末属，蒙恩为外戚，累世二千石。
至臣之身，复备列位，假历将帅，守持一隅。
以委质则易为辞，以纳忠则易为力。
书不足以深达至诚，故遣刘钧口陈肝胆。
自以底里上露，长无纤介。
而玺书盛称蜀、汉二主，三分鼎足之权，任嚣、尉佗之谋，窃自痛伤。
臣融虽无识，犹知利害之际，顺逆之分。
岂可背真旧之主，事奸伪之人；废忠贞之节，为倾覆之事；弃已成之基，求无冀之利。
此三者虽问狂夫，犹知去就，而臣独何以用心！
translation: 
There is no unity in the world. You and I are not in the same region, and we are not countries annexing each other.
The current deliberation must have Ren Xiao follow Zhao Tuo's plan to control the seven counties.
The king divides the land but does not divide the people. He just handles his own affairs well.
Now I will give the general two hundred pounds of gold. Please write to me if you have time. So Dou Rong was appointed as the pastor of Liangzhou.
As soon as the seal arrived, everyone in Hexi was shocked, thinking that the emperor had seen it thousands of miles away and was trying to catch Zhang Li's feelings.
Dou Rong then sent Liu Jun to write a letter saying: Dou Rong secretly thought to himself that he was lucky enough to entrust the last relative of the late emperor to be favored as a relative, and he was given two thousand stones from generation to generation.
In my generation, he was also appointed as a captain, pretending to be a general, guarding the northwest corner.
It is easy to say that if you are entrusted to the county, it will be easy to make efforts if you are loyal to the king.
Letters are not enough to express sincerity, so Liu Jun is sent to express his sincerity to you verbally.
I showed everything inside and out, hiding nothing.
However, the seal book is said to be the two masters of Shu and Han, with three-thirds of power. Ren Xiao and Wei Tuo's plans make me sad.
Although I, Dou Rong, have no knowledge, I still know the difference between good and bad, good and bad.
How can we betray the true and old master and serve the traitor and hypocrite? Abandon the loyalty and loyalty, and go against the grain to overthrow the country. Abandon the established foundation and seek hopeless profits.
Although these three people are asking a crazy man, they still know where to go, but why do I, Dou Rongdu, care about it!


Chunk 5: 
original: 
谨遣同产弟友诣阙，口陈区区。 友至高平，会嚣反叛，道绝，驰还，遣司马席封间行通书。
帝复遣席封赐融、友书，所以慰藉之甚备。
融既深知帝意，乃与隗嚣书责让之曰：伏惟将军国富政修，士兵怀附。
亲遇厄会之际，国家不利之时，守节不回，承事本朝，后遣伯春委身于国，无疑之诚，于斯有效。
融等所以欣服高义，愿从役于将军者，良为此也。
而忿悁之閒，改节易图，君臣分争，上下接兵。
委成功，造难就，去从义，为横谋，百年累之，一朝毁之，岂不惜乎！
殆执事者贪功建谋，以至于此，融窃痛之！
当今西周地势局迫，人兵离散，易以辅人，难以自建。
计若失路不反，闻道犹迷，不南合子阳，则北入文伯耳。夫负虚交而易强御，恃远救而轻近敌，未见其利也。
translation: 
I would like to send my half-brother Dou You to Beijing to verbally explain my mere intentions. When Dou You arrived at Gaoping, Kuai Xiao rebelled and the road was blocked, so he had to return and sent Sima Xifeng to Luoyang via the trail to submit a letter.
The emperor again sent a banquet to the brothers Dou Rong and Dou You, and was very considerate in comforting and encouraging them.
Since Dou Rong was well aware of the emperor's intention, he wrote to Kai Xiao to rebuke him, saying: The general makes the country rich and the government cultivates, and the soldiers embrace it.
In a time when his family was in danger and the country was unfavorable, the general kept his integrity and served his dynasty, and his eldest son, Kai Xun, committed himself to the country. His undoubted sincerity can be seen here.
This is why Dou Rong and others readily admire the general's noble loyalty and are willing to serve him.
Later, out of temporary personal anger, the general changed his temper and planned another big event, and the emperor and his ministers fought with each other.
It would be a pity to abandon the achievements that have been achieved and create new ones that are difficult to achieve, betray the righteousness of Shandong, and plan to connect with Western Shu. The accumulated achievements of hundreds of years are destroyed once!
Is it because the people below you are greedy for credit and offer tricks that lead to this? Rong really feels sorry for it!
Today, Xizhou's terrain is cramped and its troops are scattered. It is easy to assist others but difficult to create a situation on your own.
If you don't turn back after taking the wrong path, and are still confused after hearing the truth, you will either be annexed by Gongsun Shu in the south, or you will have to join Lu Fang's group in the north. Relying on false friendship to defeat a strong opponent, relying on distant rescue and despising the powerful enemy in front of you, there is no benefit.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
融闻智者不危众以举事，仁者不违义以要功。
今以小敌大，于众何如？
弃子徼功，于义何如？
且初事本朝，稽首北面，忠臣节也。
及遣伯春，垂涕相送，慈父恩也。
俄而背之，谓吏士何？
忍而弃之，谓留子何？
自兵起以来，转相攻击，城郭皆为丘墟，生人转于沟壑。今其存者，非锋刃之余，则流亡之孤。
迄今伤痍之体未愈，哭泣之声尚闻。
幸赖天运少还，而将军复重于难，是使积疴不得遂瘳，幼孤将复流离，其为悲痛，尤足愍伤，言之可为酸鼻！
庸人且犹不忍，况仁者乎？
融闻为忠甚易，得宜实难。
忧人大过，以德取怨，知且以言获罪也。
区区所献，惟将军省焉。
translation: 
Rong heard that wise people do not harm others to do things, and benevolent people do not create loyalty to achieve merit.
Now, if we have a small enemy but a big one, what can we say about the safety of everyone?
What does it say about your son's righteousness if you abandon your son for meritorious service?
Moreover, when you were a minister of this dynasty and bowed to the north, you were loyal to your ministers.
Later, he sent his son to the court and said goodbye with tears, which was the kindness of a loving father.
How will the officials think of you if you throw away all the kindness of a loyal minister and a loving father?
If you have the heart to abandon your flesh and blood, how will I miss you if you call me Liuzi?
Since the beginning of the army, attacks have turned around, and the entire city has been reduced to ruins, and many people have died in the ravines. Those who survive today are either those who escaped from the knife gap, or are singles in exile.
Up to now, the injured body has not recovered, and the sound of crying is still wailing in my ears.
Fortunately, destiny has eased a little bit, but the general is going to have another disaster. This is to prevent the long-sick people from recovering, and to make the young orphans suffer from the pain of being homeless again. This is grief, especially pity and heartache, and it makes people's noses sore!
If a mediocre person can't bear it, how much more can a benevolent person do?
It is easy to blend hearing and hearing into loyalty, but it is really difficult to be loyal appropriately.
Worrying too much for others will inevitably lead to resentment based on good deeds. I know that I will offend the general with my words.
It's just a tribute, I hope the general will realize it.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
嚣不纳。融乃与五郡太守共砥厉兵马，上疏请师期。
帝深嘉美之，乃赐融以外属图及太史公《五宗》、《外戚世家》、《魏其侯列传》。
诏报曰： 每追念外属，孝景皇帝出自窦氏，定王，景帝之子，朕之所祖。
昔魏其一言，继统以正，长君、少君尊奉师傅，修成淑德，施及子孙，此皇太后神灵，上天祐汉也。
从天水来者写将军所让隗嚣书，痛入骨髓。
畔臣见之，当股栗惭愧，忠臣则酸鼻流涕，义士则旷若发目蒙，非忠孝悫诚，孰能如此？
岂其德薄者所能克堪！
嚣自知失河西之助，族祸将及，欲设间离之说，乱惑真心，转相解构，以成其奸。
又京师百僚，不晓国家及将军本意，多能采取虚伪，夸诞妄谈，令忠孝失望，传言乖实。
毁誉之来，皆不徒然，不可不思。
translation: 
Wei Xiao refused, so Dou Rong and the governor of the five counties strengthened their troops and asked Shangshu for the date of departure.
The emperor admired Dou Rong's actions very much, and gave Dou Rong a picture of his subordinates and Tai Shigong's "Five Sects", "Family of Foreign Relatives", and "Biography of Wei Qihou".
The edict reported: "Every time I remember my relatives, Emperor Xiaojing comes from the Dou family, Prince Ding, the son of Emperor Jing, and is my ancestor."
In the past, due to Wei Qi's words, the orthodoxy was inherited. The eldest king and the young king respected their masters and cultivated good virtues, which were extended to their descendants. This is the spirit of the empress dowager. God bless the Han Dynasty.
People from Tianshui wrote a letter from the general instructing Wei Xiao, which was painful to the bones.
When the traitor sees it, he or she will feel ashamed, the loyal minister will feel sore and runny when he sees it, and the righteous will be bright-eyed when he sees it. How can this be done if it is not loyalty, filial piety and sincerity?
How can a person with poor moral character endure this!
Kuai Xiao knew that without the help of Hexi, the disaster of annihilation of the clan was coming, so he wanted to sow discord and spread rumors to confuse the people, so as to explain the conspiracy and make him treacherous.
In addition, all the officials in the capital did not understand the true intentions of the country and the generals, so they often resorted to hypocrisy, exaggerated nonsense, disappointed loyalty and filial piety, and made rumors untrue.
Reputation and reputation are not accidental and must be considered.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
今关东盗贼已定，大兵今当悉西，将军其抗厉威武，以应期会。 融被诏，即与诸郡守将兵入金城。
初，更始时，先零羌封何诸种杀金城太守，居其郡，隗嚣使使赂遗封何，与共结盟，欲发其众。
融等因军出，进击封何，大破之，斩首千余级，得牛、马、羊万头，谷数万斛，因并河扬威武，伺候车驾。
时，大兵未进，融乃引还。
帝以融信效著明，益嘉之。诏右扶风修理融父坟茔，祠以太牢。
数驰轻使，致遗四方珍羞，梁统乃使人刺杀张玄，绝与嚣绝，皆解所假将军印绶。
七年夏，酒泉太守竺曾以弟报怨杀人而去郡，融承制拜曾为武锋将军，更以辛肜代之。
秋，隗嚣发兵寇安定，帝将自西征之，先戒融期。
会遇雨，道断，且嚣兵已退，乃止。
融至姑臧，被诏罢归。
融恐大兵遂久不出，乃上书曰： 隗嚣闻车驾当西，臣融东下，士众骚动，计且不战。
嚣将高峻之属皆欲逢迎大军，后闻兵罢，峻等复疑。
嚣扬言东方有变，西州豪杰遂复附从。嚣又引公孙述将，令守突门。
臣融孤弱，介在其间，虽承威灵，宜速救助。
国家当其前，臣融促其后，缓急迭用，首尾相资，嚣势排迮，不得进退，此必破也。
若兵不早进，久生持疑，则外长寇仇，内示困弱，复令谗邪得有因缘，臣窃忧之。
translation: 
Now that the thieves in Guandong have been pacified, the entire army should now head west. The general invites fresh horses and strong troops to wait for the rendezvous. After Dou Rong received the edict, he led his troops into Jincheng with the governors.
At first, during the Gengshi period, Xianling Qiang Feng He Zhuzhong killed the prefect of Jincheng and occupied Jincheng. Kuai Xiao sent envoys to bribe Feng He and form an alliance with him, preparing to use his tribe.
Dou Rong and others therefore sent troops to attack Fenghe, defeated his army, beheaded more than a thousand people, obtained tens of thousands of cattle, horses and sheep, and tens of thousands of grains, so they showed off their power according to the Yellow River, waiting for the arrival of Guangwu.
Later, because the soldiers did not advance, Dou Rong returned.
The emperor further rewarded Dou Rong for doing what he said, and ordered You Fufeng to repair Dou Rong's father's tomb and use a large prison to worship him.
He sent Qingqi back and forth several times and presented delicious food to all directions. Liang Tong ordered someone to assassinate Zhang Xuan, so he was cut off from Kai Xiao, and both of them took off their fake general seals.
In the summer of the seventh year, Zhu Zeng, the prefect of Jiuquan, left the county because his younger brother had committed murder. Dou Rong followed the emperor's wishes and worshiped Zeng Zhu as General Wu Feng, and replaced Zhu Zeng with Xin Wen as the prefect of Jiuquan.
In autumn, Wei Xiao sent troops to invade Anding. The emperor was preparing to personally march westward, so he first warned Dou Rong about the date of sending troops.
It happened to be raining, the road was blocked, and Kaixiao's soldiers had retreated, so they stopped.
Dou Rong arrived in Guzang and was ordered to leave.
Dou Rong was afraid that the troops would be delayed for a long time, so he wrote a letter saying: "Kai Xiao heard that you will lead the army to the west. Dou Rong sent troops to the east. The soldiers were in a commotion and decided not to resist."
Weixiao general Gao Jun and others wanted to welcome the army. Later, they heard that the army had retreated, and Gao Jun and others became suspicious again.
Wei Xiao threatened that there was a change in the east, so the heroes of Xizhou went to join Wei Xiao. Wei Xiao also invited General Gongsun Shu and ordered them to guard the city gate.
Dou Rong is lonely and weak, between Long and Shu. Although His Majesty has the power and spirit, he must be rescued as soon as possible.
The country is in front, and Dou Rong's troops are behind him. The priorities are intertwined, and the head and tail are taking care of each other. Wei Xiao is in a tight situation and cannot advance or retreat, so he will definitely be defeated.
If the army does not advance early and suspicions arise for a long time, then the foreign minister will be jealous and internally distressed and weak, and the slanderous evil will have an opportunity to take advantage of it. I am really worried, and I ask for your mercy.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
惟陛下哀怜！ 帝深美之。
八年夏，车驾西征隗嚣，融率五郡太守及羌虏小月氏等步骑数万，辎重五千余两，与大军会高平第一。融先遣从事问会见仪适。是时，军旅代兴，诸将与三公交错道中，或背使者交私语。
帝闻融先问礼仪，甚善之，以宣告百僚。
乃置酒高会，引见融等，待以殊礼。
拜弟友为奉车都尉，从弟士太中大夫。
遂共进军，嚣众大溃，城邑皆降。
帝高融功，下诏以安丰、阳泉、蓼、安风四县封融为安丰侯，弟友为显亲侯。
遂以次封诸将帅：武锋将军竺曾为助义侯，武威太守梁统为成义侯，张掖太守史苞为褒义侯，金城太守厙钧为辅义侯，酒泉太守辛肜为扶义侯。
封爵既毕，乘舆东归，悉遣融等西还所镇。
translation: 
The emperor expressed his deep praise.
In the summer of the eighth year, Guangwu personally marched westward to Kaihuo. Dou Rong led the five prefects, the Qiang captives, the Xiaoyue clan, etc., with tens of thousands of troops on foot and more than 5,000 vehicles of baggage. They met with the army at the first city of Gaoping. Dou Rong first sent an envoy to ask about the etiquette of the meeting. At this time, the army was changing, and the generals were on the wrong side of the road with the three princes, and some were whispering behind the back of the envoy.
The emperor was very happy when he heard that Dou Rong asked about etiquette first, so he announced it to all officials.
So a grand banquet was held and Dou Rong and others were introduced and treated with special etiquette.
He worshiped his younger brother Dou You as the captain of Fengche, and his younger brother Dou Shi as the doctor of Taizhong.
So they marched together, and the Kuihuo tribe was defeated, and all the cities surrendered.
In recognition of Dou Rong's meritorious service, the emperor issued an edict to confer Dou Rong as the Marquis of Anfeng in the four counties of Anfeng, Yangquan, Liao and Anfeng, and his younger brother Dou You as the Xianqinhou.
He named the generals in turn: General Zhu Zeng of Wufeng was the Marquis of Zhuyi, Wuwei Prefect Liang Tong was the Marquis of Chengyi, Zhangye Prefect Shi Bao was the Marquis of Baoyi, Jincheng Prefect Shejun was the Marquis of Fuyi, and Jiuquan Prefect Xin Xu was the Marquis of Fuyi.
After the knighthood was completed, Guangwu returned to the east and sent Dou Rong and other officials to the west to control Fuyuan County.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
融以兄弟并受爵位，久专方面，惧不自安，数上书求代。
诏报曰： 吾与将军如左右手耳，数执谦退，何不晓人意？
勉循士民，无擅离部曲。
及陇、蜀平，诏融与五郡太守奏事京师，官属宾客相随，驾乘千余两，马、牛、羊被野。
融到，诣洛阳城门，上凉州牧、张掖属国都尉、安丰侯印绶，诏遣使者还侯印绶。
引见，就诸侯位，赏赐恩宠，倾动京师。
数月，拜为冀州牧，十余日，又迁大司空。
融自以非旧臣，一旦入朝，在功臣之右，每召会进见，容貌辞气卑恭已甚，帝以此愈亲厚之。
融小心，久不自安，数辞让爵位，因侍中金迁口达至诚。
translation: 
Dou Rong received a title as his brother and had been in the northwest for a long time. He was afraid and couldn't calm down. He wrote several times to ask for someone to replace him.
The edict replied: "The general and I are like right and left hands. You have asked to abdicate several times. Why are you not satisfied?"
I hope you will encourage the religious people not to leave the army without permission.
When Long and Shu were pacified, Dou Rong and the five prefects were ordered to come to the capital to report. They were accompanied by officials and guests, more than a thousand cars, and horses, cattle, and sheep everywhere.
Dou Rong arrived at the gate of Luoyang City and presented the seals and ribbons of the Mu of Liangzhou, the Captain of Zhangye County, and the Marquis of Anfeng. The emperor ordered the envoys to return the seals and ribbons of the Marquis.
After the introduction, he was given the title of prince, and he was given more favors and favors, which moved the capital.
A few months later, he was promoted to Jizhou Mu, and after more than ten days, he was promoted to Da Sikong.
Dou Rong thought that he was not an old minister. Once he entered the court, he would be ranked above the meritorious ministers. Every time he came to the meeting, his appearance and tone of voice were extremely humble, so the emperor became closer to him and loved him more.
Dou Rong was cautious and could not keep himself at ease. He resigned his title several times and asked Jin Qian, his servant, to convey his sincerity.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
又上疏曰： 臣融年五十三。有子年十五，质性顽钝。臣融朝夕教导以经艺，不得令观天文，见谶记。诚欲令恭肃畏事，恂恂循道，不愿其有才能，何况乃当传以连城广土，享故诸侯王国哉？ 因复请间求见，帝不许。
后朝罢，逡巡席后，帝知欲有让，遂使左右传出。
它日会见，迎诏融曰： 日者知公欲让职还土，故命公暑热且自便。
今相见，宜论它事，勿得复言。 融不敢重陈请。
二十年，大司徒戴涉坐所举人盗金下狱，帝以三公参职，不得已乃策免融。
明年，加位特进。
二十三年，代阴兴行卫尉事，特进如故，又兼领将作大匠。
弟友为城门校尉，兄弟并典禁兵。
融复乞骸骨，辄赐钱、帛，太官致珍奇。
translation: 
Another Shangshu said: Dou Rong was fifty-three years old and had a son who was fifteen years old and had a naughty and blunt character. Rong taught him the arts day and night, and did not allow him to watch astronomy or read prophecies. The purpose was to make him respectful, serious, not trouble-free, and able to follow the rules and follow the right path. He did not want him to have talents, let alone pass him to Liancheng Guangshi, so that he could enjoy the special treatment of the princes and kingdoms? So he once again asked to see him at his leisure, but the emperor refused.
Later, after the court affairs were over, Dou Rong carefully retreated to his seat. The emperor knew that Dou Rong wanted to resign again, so he ordered him to pass out.
When we meet tomorrow, we welcome Dou Rong and say: A few days ago, the official wanted to resign and return to his hometown, so I asked you to go home and rest on your own in the hot summer.
When we meet today, it is appropriate to discuss other matters and not talk about resignation. Dou Rong therefore did not dare to submit any further invitations.
In the 20th year, the great Situ Daishe was imprisoned for stealing gold by someone he recommended. The emperor asked the three ministers to participate in the ministry, so he had to avoid being suspected and resigned from the post of Dou Rong, the great minister.
In the second year, extra seats were added.
In the twenty-third year, Dai Yin Xingxing was engaged in the work of Weiwei, and he continued to advance as before, and he also led generals as great craftsmen.
His younger brother Dou You is the captain of the city gate school, and his brothers are also in charge of the forbidden troops.
Dou Rong once again asked to resign and return to his hometown. The emperor often rewarded him with money and silk, and the eunuch in charge of the royal diet often sent rare foods.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
及友卒，帝愍融年衰，遣中常侍、中谒者即其卧内强进酒食。
融长子穆，尚内黄公主，代友为城门校尉。
穆子勋，尚东海恭王彊女沘阳公主，友子固，亦尚光武女涅阳公主。
显宗即位，以融从兄子林为护羌校尉，窦氏一公、两侯、三公主、四二千石，相与并时。
自祖及孙，官府邸第相望京邑，奴婢以千数，于亲戚、功臣中莫与为此。
永平二年，林以罪诛，事在《西羌传》。
帝由是数下诏切责融，戒以窦婴、田蚡祸败之事。
融惶恐乞骸骨，诏令归第养病。
岁余，听上卫尉印绶，赐养牛，上樽酒。
融在宿卫十余年，年老，子孙纵诞，多不法。
穆等遂交通轻薄，属托郡县，干乱政事。
translation: 
After Dou's friend died, the emperor took pity on Dou Rong's old age and frailty, and sent his regular attendants and ministers to Dou Rong's bedroom to force him to drink and eat.
Dou Rong's eldest son, Dou Mu, married Princess Neihuang and became the city gate captain on behalf of Dou You.
Dou Mu's son Dou Xun married Princess Pubiyang, the strong daughter of King Gong of the East China Sea, and Dou You's son Dou Gu also married Princess Nieyang, the daughter of Guangwu.
Xianzong ascended the throne and appointed Dou Lin, the son of Dou Rong's elder brother, as the Colonel Protecting Qiang. The Dou family has the special favor of one prince, two princes, three princesses, and four or two thousand stones, all at the same time.
From ancestors to grandsons, they have lived in the official residence of the capital and have thousands of slaves and maids. Among the many relatives and heroes, no one can compare with him.
In the second year of Yongping, Dou Lin, the son of Dou Rong's brother, was killed for committing a crime.
The emperor then issued several edicts to censure Dou Rong, citing the historical fact that Dou Ying and Tian Chong were responsible for the defeat.
Dou Rong was frightened and asked to return to his hometown, so he ordered him to return to his mansion to recuperate.
When he was more than a year old, he received Dou Rong's seal and ribbon from the imperial guard, and was given cattle and bottles of wine.
Dou Rong had been in Suwei for more than ten years. He was getting old, and his descendants were indulgent and lawless.
Dou Mu and others interacted with some frivolous people, and they were entrusted to the county to interfere with political affairs.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
以封在安丰，欲令姻戚悉据故六安国，遂矫称阴太后诏，令六安侯刘盱去妇，因以女妻之。
五年，盱妇家上书言状，帝大怒，乃尽免穆等官，诸窦为郎吏者皆将家属归故郡，独留融京师。
穆等西至函谷关，有诏悉复追还。
会融卒，时年七十八，谥曰戴侯，赙送甚厚。
帝以穆不能修尚，而拥富资，居大第，常令谒者一人监护其家。
居数年，谒者奏穆父子自失势，数出怨望语，帝令将家属归本郡，唯勋以沘阳主婿留京师。
穆坐赂遗小吏，郡捕系，与子宣俱死平陵狱，勋亦死洛阳狱。
久之，诏还融夫人与小孙一人居洛阳家舍。
十四年，封勋弟嘉为安丰侯，食邑二千户，奉融后。
和帝初，为少府。
及勋子大将军宪被诛，免就国。
嘉卒，子万全嗣。
万全卒，子会宗嗣。
万全弟子武，别有传。
translation: 
Because he was enfeoffed in Anfeng and wanted all his in-laws to occupy the original Liu'an kingdom, he asked the Queen Mother of Yin to order Liu Xu, the Marquis of Liu'an, to divorce his wife and marry his daughter to Liu Xu.
In the fifth year, Liu Xu was abandoned and his wife's family wrote a letter to report the situation. The emperor was furious and dismissed Dou Mu and others from their official positions. All the ministers in Dou took their families back to their hometowns in the countryside. Only Dou Rong stayed in the capital.
Dou Mu and others went west to Hangu Pass, and there was an imperial edict to recover them all.
When Dou Rong died at the age of seventy-eight, he was given the posthumous title of Marquis of Dai. He sent a lot of money to help with the funeral.
The emperor thought that Dou Mu could not cultivate himself and had a lot of wealth, so he often ordered Ye to guard his family alone.
The audience reported that Dou Mu and his son had complained several times since they lost power, and the emperor ordered him to take his family back to the original county. Only Dou Xun, the son-in-law of Princess Biyang, was able to stay in the capital.
Dou Mu was arrested and brought to justice by the county for bribing minor officials. Both Dou Mu and his son Dou Xuan died in Pingling Prison, and Dou Xun also died in Luoyang Prison.
A long time later, the imperial edict was issued to bring back Mrs. Dou Jia and a young grandson to their residence in Luoyang.
In the fourteenth year, Dou Rong, Dou Xun's younger brother, was granted the title of Marquis of Anfeng, with a settlement of 2,000 households, and was succeeded by Dou Rong's descendants.
At the beginning of Emperor He's reign, he was the Shaofu.
When Dou Xunzi, General Dou Xian was killed, he was spared from the country.
Dou Jia died and was succeeded by his son Dou Wanquan.
After Wanquan died, his son Huizong succeeded him.
Dou Wu, a disciple of Dou Wanquan, has a unique legend.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
论曰：窦融始以豪侠为名，拔起风尘之中，以投天隙。遂蝉蜕王侯之尊，终膺卿相之位，此则徼功趣势之士也。
及其爵位崇满，至乃放远权宠，恂恂似若不能已者，又何智也！
尝独详味此子之风度，虽经国之术无足多谈，而进退之礼良可言矣。
translation: 
The historian commented: Dou Rong began to be known as a heroic hero, standing tall in the dust, and then emerged from the prince's position during the break, and finally won the title of minister. This is really a man who has a tendency to achieve merit.
When his title is high and perfect, he can put aside his power and favors, fearing as if he has no choice. How smart is this!
I once savored this man's demeanor in detail. Although his talents in the latitude and longitude of the country are not enough to talk about, the etiquette of advancing and retreating is worth talking about.


