Summary uses chunk [0, 4, 4, 4, 6]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝元王皇后，成帝母也。
家凡十侯，五大司马，外戚莫盛焉。
自有传。
孝成许皇后，大司马车骑将军平恩侯嘉女也。
元帝悼伤母恭哀后居位日浅而遭霍氏之辜，故选嘉女以配皇太子。
初入太了家，上令中常侍黄门亲近者侍送，还白太子欢说状，元帝喜谓左右： 酌酒贺我！
左右皆称万岁。
久之，有一男，失之。
乃成帝即位，立许妃为皇后，复生一女，失之。
初，后父嘉自元帝时为大司马车骑将军辅政，已八九年矣。
及成帝立，复以元舅阳平侯王凤为大司马、大将军，与嘉并。
杜钦以为故事后父重于帝舅，乃说凤曰： 车骑将军至贵，将军宜尊之敬之，无失其意。
盖轻细微眇之渐，必生乖忤之患，不可不慎。
卫将军之日盛于盖侯，近世之事，语尚在于长老之耳，唯将军察焉。
久之，上欲专委任凤，乃策嘉曰： 将军家重身尊，不宜以吏职自累。
赐黄金二百斤，以特进侯就朝位。
后岁余薨，谥曰恭侯。
后聪慧，善史书，自为妃至即位，常宠于上，后宫希得进见。
皇太后及帝诸舅忧上无继嗣，时又数有灾异，刘向、谷永等皆陈其咎在于后宫。
上然其言，于是省减椒房掖廷用度。
皇后及上疏曰：
妾夸布服粝粮，加以幼稚愚惑，不明义理，幸得免离茅屋之下，备后宫扫除。
蒙过误之宠，居非命所当托，污秽不修，旷职尸官，数逆至法，逾越制度，当伏放流之诛，不足以塞责。
乃壬寅日大长秋受诏： 椒房仪法，御服舆驾，所发诸官署，及所造作，遗赐外家群臣妾，皆如竟宁以前故事。
translation: 
The queen of Emperor Xiaoyuan was the mother of Emperor Cheng.
The Wang family has a total of ten princes and five chief ministers. Among the relatives, no one is more prosperous than their family.
Queen Wang's relatives have their own biographies.
Empress Xu of Emperor Xiaocheng was the daughter of Ping Enhou Xu Jia, the general of the Great Sima Chariot Cavalry.
Emperor Yuan mourned the death of his mother and mourned the murder of the Huo family for a short period of time in her reign. He specially selected Xu Jia's daughter to be betrothed to the crown prince.
When Mrs. Xu first entered the crown prince's palace, the emperor sent his ministers and close associates from Huangmen to serve him. When these people came back, they told how happy the crown prince was. Emperor Yuan was overjoyed and said to his left and right: "Please pour some wine to congratulate me!"
Everyone on the left and right shouted long live.
After meeting for a long time, Concubine Xu gave birth to a son who died in infancy.
After Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, he appointed Concubine Xu as empress. Empress Xu gave birth to another daughter, who also died in infancy.
At first, the queen's father, Xu Jia, had been appointed as a general in charge of carriage and cavalry to assist the government since the Yuan Dynasty. It had been eight or nine years.
After Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, he named his uncle Wang Feng, Marquis of Yangping, the Great Sima General, alongside Xu Jia.
Du Qin believed that according to the old rules, the queen's father's status should be more noble than the emperor's uncle, so he advised Wang Feng: "The chariot general's status is extremely noble. General, you should respect him and do not go against his wishes."
Even small differences can lead to catastrophic hostility, so we must not be careless.
At that time, the glory of General Wei was greater than that of Gaihou. In modern times, older people often talk about it and hope that the general will consider it carefully.
Later, the emperor planned to appoint only Wang Feng, so he gave Xu Jiawen a letter saying: The general has a distinguished status and should not be burdened by his official position.
He was rewarded with two hundred catties of gold and established in the court with a special promotion position.
More than a year later, Xu Jia passed away and was given the title Gonghou.
Queen Xu was intelligent by nature and good at writing official scripts. From the time she became the crown prince to the time she was appointed queen, she was often favored by the emperor. Women in the harem were rarely summoned by the emperor.
The empress dowager and the emperor's uncles were worried that the emperor would have no heirs. At this time, disasters occurred repeatedly. Liu Xiang, Gu Yong and others all reported that the fault was in the harem.
The emperor thought they were right. Therefore, the expenses for the Queen's Palace and Yeting were reduced.
The queen went to the court and said:
I came from a poor family with a poor diet, and I was young, ignorant, and ignorant of the truth. I was fortunate enough to be able to leave a commoner's home and serve His Majesty in the harem.
Thanks to your majesty's wrong love, I am in the position of queen that I should not have earned. However, I cannot keep myself clean and fulfill my duties. I have always violated laws and regulations and undermined the system. Even though I was sentenced to exile, it was not enough to justify my crime.
So the edict was read out in the Changqiu period of Renyin: The queen should follow the etiquette and laws, dress her carriages and horses, take the property from the official office, make useful items, and reward her relatives and families, all in accordance with the old practices before Emperor Xiaoyuan.
summary:
The Wang family, relatives of Emperor Xiaoyuan's queen, produced ten princes and five chief ministers, making them the most prosperous among all imperial relatives. Empress Xu of Emperor Xiaocheng was the daughter of General Xu Jia. Emperor Yuan selected her for the crown prince after mourning his mother's death. She initially brought joy to the court, but her children died in infancy. After Emperor Cheng ascended, he appointed her empress and appointed his uncle Wang Feng alongside Xu Jia as co-regents. Du Qin advised Wang Feng to respect Xu Jia's superior status according to tradition. Eventually, the emperor appointed only Wang Feng and granted Xu Jia a special retirement with gold. Xu Jia died over a year later.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
养名显行，以息众讠雚，垂则列妾，使有法焉。
皇后深惟毋忽！
是时，大将军凤用事，威权尤盛。
其后，比三年日蚀，言事者颇归咎于凤矣。
而谷永等遂著之许氏，许氏自知为凤所不佑。
久之，皇后宠亦益衰，而后宫多新爱。
后姊平安刚侯夫人谒等为媚道祝诅后宫有身者王美人及凤等，事发觉，太后大怒，下吏考问，谒等诛死，许后坐废处昭台宫，亲属皆归故郡山阳，后弟子平恩侯旦就国。
凡立十四年而废，在昭台岁余，还徙长定宫。
后九年，上怜许氏，下诏曰： 盖闻仁不遗远，谊不忘亲。
前平安刚侯夫人谒坐大逆罪，家属幸蒙赦令，归故郡。
朕惟平恩戴侯，先帝外祖，魂神废弃，莫奉祭祀，念之未尝忘于心。
其还平恩侯旦及亲属在山阳郡者。 是岁，废后败。
先是，废后姊孊寡居，与定陵侯淳于长私通，因为之小妻。
长绐之曰： 我能白东宫，复立许后为左皇后。
废后因孊私赂遗长，数通书记相报谢。
长书有悖谩，发觉，天子使廷尉孔光持节赐废后药，自杀，葬延陵交道厩西。
孝成班婕妤。帝初即位选入后宫。
始为少使，蛾而大幸，为婕妤，居增成舍，再就馆，有男，数月失之。
成帝游于后庭，尝欲与婕妤同辇载，婕妤辞曰： 观古图画，贤圣之君皆有名臣在侧，三代末主乃有嬖女，今欲同辇，得无近似之乎？
上善其言而止。
太后闻之，喜曰： 古有樊姬，今有班婕妤。
婕妤诵《诗》及《窃窕》、《德象》、《女师》之篇。
每进见上疏，依则古礼。
自鸿嘉后，上稍隆于内宠。
婕妤进侍者李平，平得幸，立为婕妤。
上曰： 始卫皇后亦从微起。
乃赐平姓曰卫，所谓卫婕妤也。
其后，赵飞燕姊弟亦从自微贱兴，逾越礼制，浸盛于前。
班婕妤及许皇后皆失宠，稀复进见。
鸿嘉三年，赵飞燕谮告许皇后、班婕妤挟媚道，祝诅后宫，詈及主上。
许皇后坐废。
孝问班婕妤，婕妤对曰： 妾闻 死生有命，富贵在天。 修正尚未蒙福，为邪欲以何望？
translation: 
Establish a good reputation and show off your good virtues, so as to calm the discussions of the people in the world, and let the law be spread in the harem so that the concubines can obey the law.
Please think deeply and don't take these things lightly.
At that time, it was General Wang Feng who was in charge of the government and had the greatest power.
Later, there were food shortages for three consecutive years, and most of the people who came to remonstrate blamed Wang Feng.
But Gu Yong and others thought it was Queen Xu's fault. Queen Xu knew in her heart that Wang Feng would not help her.
After a while, Emperor Cheng's favor for the queen diminished, and many people in the harem were favored.
The queen's sister, Ping'an Ganghou's wife, Xu Ye, and others used benign ways to curse Wang Mei, Wang Feng, and others in the harem who were pregnant. When the incident was revealed, the queen mother was furious and threw these people into prison for torture. Xu Ye and others were executed. Queen Xu was convicted and deposed.
Empress Xu reigned for a total of fourteen years before being deposed. She lived in Zhaotai Palace for more than a year and then moved to Changding Palace.
Nine years later, Emperor Cheng took pity on the Xu family and issued an edict saying: It is said that benevolence does not forget those who are far away, and righteousness does not forget relatives.
Xu Ye, the wife of Ping'an Ganghou, had previously committed a crime of treason and injustice. Fortunately, her family was pardoned and returned to their place of origin.
I think that Marquis Ping'endai is the late emperor's grandfather. His soul has nowhere to live, and there is no one to keep vigil and offer sacrifices to him. I have always kept this incident in my heart and will never forget it.
He ordered Ping Enhou Xu Dan and Xu's relatives in Shanyang County to return to the capital.
This year, Xu Feihou died. At first, Xu Feihou's sister Xu Biao was widowed and living alone. She had an affair with Chun Yuchang, the Marquis of Dingling, and she became his concubine.
Chunyu Chang lied to her and said: I can report to the Queen Mother and re-establish Queen Xu as Queen Zuo.
After Xu was abolished, he secretly bribed Chun Yuchang through Aunt Xu, and exchanged letters to thank each other many times.
Chunyu Chang made rude remarks in a letter and was reported. Emperor Cheng sent his court official Kong Guang to give Xu Feihou poison with a talisman. She had no choice but to commit suicide and was buried to the west of the Yanling Road Stables.
Emperor Xiaocheng's classmate was selected into the harem when Emperor Cheng just ascended the throne.
He started as a young envoy, but soon became favored by Emperor Cheng. He was granted the title of Jiantun and lived in Zengchengshe. He gave birth twice in the outer house, giving birth to a boy, who died a few months later.
When Emperor Cheng was playing in the harem, he once planned to ride in a chariot with Ban Shizuo. Ban Tuzai refused and said: "Looking at the pictures from ancient times, the wise monarchs are sitting next to famous ministers. Only the kings of the three generations of subjugation will have favored women. If your majesty rides in the chariot with me now, won't you be similar to those monarchs who have subjugated their countries?"
Emperor Cheng thought what she said made sense, so he gave up.
When the Queen Mother heard about this, she said happily: "In ancient times, there was Fan Ji, and now there is Ban Shidan."
Ban Jiantan recited "The Book of Songs" and "Youyao", "Dexiang", "Female Master" and other articles.
Every time you are summoned by Emperor Cheng or have a speech, you must act in accordance with ancient etiquette.
Since the Hongjia period, the number of concubines favored by Emperor Cheng gradually increased.
Ban nephew offered his maid Li Pingjin to Emperor Cheng. Li Ping was favored and named Jieyu.
Emperor Cheng said: In the past, Queen Wei also came from a humble background.
He gave Li Ping the surname Wei, which is also the so-called Wei envoy.
Later, the Zhao Feiyan sisters also rose from a humble position and transcended etiquette to a greater extent than before.
Both Ban Jianzi and Queen Xu fell out of favor and were rarely summoned by Emperor Cheng.
In the third year of Hongjia, Zhao Feiyan falsely accused Empress Xu and Ban Jianzi of behaving like women, cursed the harem, and even cursed the emperor.
Queen Xu was offended and deposed.
When interrogating Ban Jianzi, she replied: I heard that life and death are determined by destiny, wealth is in heaven, and being kind and upright has not been blessed, so what do you want to gain by doing these evil things?
summary:
Empress Xu was intelligent and skilled in calligraphy, enjoying the emperor's favor for many years while other concubines were rarely summoned. When disasters occurred repeatedly, officials Liu Xiang and Gu Yong blamed the harem, leading to reduced expenses for the queen's palace. The empress petitioned the emperor, arguing that her rewards to her family had never exceeded proper limits, that changing times required adapting systems, and that officials were using vague edicts to restrict her unfairly. She requested clarification on what property she could obtain and asked to maintain traditional practices for sacrifices and family rewards. Emperor Cheng responded by citing numerous natural disasters and celestial omens—solar eclipses, white vapors, meteors, floods, earthquakes, and fires—as evidence that excessive yin energy from the harem was causing the royal family's lack of heirs. He urged the empress to practice frugality and virtue. As Wang Feng dominated the government, three years of famine led critics to blame him, but Gu Yong continued faulting Empress Xu. The emperor's favor diminished, and the empress's sister Xu Ye was discovered cursing pregnant concubines and Wang Feng. The empress dowager had Xu Ye executed, and Empress Xu was deposed after fourteen years. Nine years later, Emperor Cheng showed mercy to the Xu family, allowing them to return to the capital. The deposed empress died after her sister's affair with Chunyu Chang led to a scheme to reinstate her. Chunyu Chang made inappropriate remarks in letters, and when reported, the emperor sent poison for her to commit suicide. Ban Jiantun entered the harem when Emperor Cheng ascended and soon gained favor. When the emperor wanted her to share his chariot, she refused, citing ancient examples of wise monarchs accompanying ministers rather than favored women. The empress dowager praised her comparison to Fan Ji of ancient times. Ban Jiantun studied classical texts and always followed ancient etiquette. As the emperor's favor shifted to other concubines, she presented her maid Li Ping to the emperor, who became favored and was given the surname Wei. Later, the Zhao sisters rose to even greater prominence. When Zhao Feiyan falsely accused Empress Xu and Ban Jiantun of cursing the harem, Ban Jiantun defended herself by stating that if ghosts and gods were aware, they would not accept improper prayers, and if ignorant, prayers were useless. The emperor pitied her and rewarded her. Fearing the Zhao sisters' jealousy, she requested to serve the empress dowager in Changxin Palace, where she wrote poems lamenting her fate and describing her lonely life in the palace. After Emperor Cheng's death, she guarded his cemetery until her death.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
至成帝崩，婕妤充奉园陵，薨，因葬园中。
孝成赵皇后，本长安宫人。
初生时，父母不举，三日不死，乃收养之。
及壮，属阳阿主家，学歌舞，号曰飞燕。
成帝尝微行出。
过阳阿主，作乐，上见飞燕而说之，召入宫，大幸。
有女弟复召入，俱为婕妤，贵倾后宫。
许后之废也，上欲立赵婕妤。
皇太后嫌其所出微甚，难之。
太后姊子淳于长为侍中，数往来传语，得太后指，上立封赵婕妤父临为成阳侯。
后月余，乃立婕妤为皇后。
追以长前白罢昌陵功，封为定陵侯。
皇后既立，后宽少衰，而弟绝幸，为昭仪。
居昭阳舍，其中庭彤朱，而殿上髤漆，切皆铜沓黄金涂，白玉阶，壁带往往为黄金釭，函蓝田璧，明珠、翠羽饰之，自后宫未尝有焉。
姊弟颛宠十余年，卒皆无子。
末年，定陶王来朝，王祖母傅太后私赂遗赵皇后、昭仪，定陶王竟为太子。
明年春，成帝崩。
帝素强，无疾病。
是时，楚思王衍、梁王立来朝，明旦当辞去，上宿供张白虎殿。
又欲拜左将军孔光为丞相，已刻侯印书赞。
昏夜平善，乡晨，傅裤袜欲起，因失衣，不能言，昼漏上十刻而崩。
民间归罪赵昭仪，皇太后诏大司马莽、丞相大司空曰： 皇帝暴崩，群众讠雚哗怪之。
掖庭令辅等在后庭左右，侍燕迫近，杂与御史、丞相、廷尉治问皇帝起居发病状。
赵昭仪自杀。
哀帝既立，尊赵皇后为皇太后，封太后弟侍中驸马都尉钦为新成侯。
赵氏侯者凡二人。
translation: 
After the death of Emperor Cheng, Ban Jianzi was sent to guard the cemetery, where she was buried after her death.
Empress Zhao of Emperor Xiaocheng was originally a palace official in Chang'an.
When she was first born, her parents didn't want to feed her, but after throwing her away for three days, she didn't die, so they took her home and raised her.
When she grew up, she went to Princess Yang's house to learn singing and dancing, and was called Feiyan.
Emperor Cheng once left the palace incognito and visited Princess Yang'a. The princess made people sing and dance for her.
Emperor Cheng liked Zhao Feiyan very much when he saw her, so he invited her to the palace, where she was extremely favored.
Feiyan had a younger sister who was also summoned to the palace. Both sisters were named disciples, and their status was higher than that of the entire harem.
After Queen Xu was deposed, the emperor planned to appoint Zhao Tudan as the queen.
The empress dowager thought she was of low origin and refused to agree.
Chunyu, the son of the Queen Mother's sister, wrote poems and sent messages to and from him many times. Emperor Cheng understood the Queen Mother's thoughts and made Zhao Lin, the father of Zhao Nephew, the Marquis of Chengyang.
More than a month later, Zhao Tudan was appointed queen.
He also recalled Chunyu Chang's contribution to the construction of Changling, and was granted the title of Marquis of Dingling.
After Zhao Feiyan was appointed queen, she was no longer so favored, but her sister was the most favored and was named Zhaoyi.
Living in Zhaoyang House, the courtyard is decorated with red, the hall is painted with two layers of paint, the steps are made of copper, coated with a layer of gold, and the steps are made of white marble. The wall strips are often made of gold and decorated with blue field jade, pearls, and green feathers. The entire harem has never been so luxurious.
The Zhao sisters have been doting on her for more than ten years, but they have never had children.
In the last years of Emperor Cheng's reign, King Dingtao came to pay homage. King Dingtao's grandmother, the Queen Mother Fu, secretly bribed Queen Zhao and Zhao Zhaoyi, and King Dingtao was finally appointed as the crown prince.
In the spring of the next year, Emperor Cheng died.
Emperor Cheng was usually in good health and had no illnesses.
At this time, King Liu Yan of Chu Si and King Liu Li of Liang came to see him. They had to leave early the next morning, so Emperor Cheng arranged a curtain and stayed in the White Tiger Palace.
He also plans to make Kong Guang, the general of the left, prime minister, and the official seal and official announcement have been prepared.
After a night of nothing, I woke up in the morning, put on my pantyhose, and tried to sit up, but my clothes suddenly fell off and I was speechless. At ten quarters of the day, Emperor Cheng died.
The people believed that Zhao Zhaoyi was guilty, and the Empress Dowager issued an edict to the Grand Sima Wang Mang and the Prime Minister Da Sikong, saying: The emperor suddenly died, and people were talking about it and they didn't know what was going on.
Yeting Lingfu and others waited on the emperor's daily life near the harem, and asked them to inquire about the emperor's daily life and illness together with the censor, prime minister, and court officials.
Zhao Zhaoyi committed suicide.
After Emperor Ai ascended the throne, he honored Empress Zhao as the Empress Dowager, and granted the title of Xinchenghou to the Empress Dowager's younger brother, Prince Consort Zhao Qin.
There are two people in the Zhao family who have been granted the title of marquis.
summary:
Empress Zhao, originally a palace official in Chang'an, was abandoned at birth but survived. She learned singing and dancing at Princess Yang'a's house and was called Feiyan. Emperor Cheng visited incognito, became enamored with her, and brought her to the palace. Her sister also entered the palace, and both received unprecedented favor. After Empress Xu was deposed, the emperor wanted to make Zhao empress, but the empress dowager objected due to her low birth. Through Chunyu Chang's mediation, the emperor made Zhao's father a marquis, and Zhao became empress. Her sister became Zhaoyi and lived in unprecedented luxury. After more than a decade without children, they were bribed by King Dingtao's grandmother to support him as crown prince. Emperor Cheng died suddenly while in good health, and Zhao Zhaoyi was blamed. An investigation revealed that two other concubines had borne sons who were killed by Zhao Zhaoyi's orders. After Emperor Ai's death, Wang Mang reported to the empress dowager, who demoted and then deposed Empress Zhao, who committed suicide after sixteen years as empress.

