Chunk 0: 
original: 
董卓字仲颍，陇西临洮人也。
性粗猛有谋。
少尝游羌中，尽与豪帅相结。
后归耕于野，诸豪帅有来从之者，卓为杀耕牛，与共宴乐，豪帅感其意，归相敛得杂畜千余头以遗之，由是以健侠知名。
为州兵马掾，常徼守塞下。
卓膂力过人，双带两鞬，左右驰射，为羌胡所畏。
桓帝末，以六郡良家子为羽林郎，从中郎将张奂为军司马，共击汉阳叛羌，破之，拜郎中，赐缣九千匹。
卓曰： 为者则己，有者则士。
乃悉分与吏兵，无所留。
稍迁西域戊己校尉，坐事免。
后为并州刺史，河东太守。
中平元年，拜东中郎将，持节，代卢植击张角于下曲阳，军败抵罪。
translation: 
Dong Zhuo, courtesy name Zhongying, was from Lintao, Longxi.
He has a rough and scheming temperament.
When he was young, he traveled among the Qiang and tried his best to make friends with the leaders.
Later, when he returned home to farm, some of the leaders came to join him. Dong Zhuo slaughtered cattle for them and had banquets with them. The leaders thanked him for his kindness and collected the remaining heads of various livestock as gifts to him after returning. From then on, he became famous for his bravery and chivalry.
The soldiers and horses who were appointed as state guards once patrolled and guarded under the fortress.
Dong Zhuo has extraordinary physical strength. He wears two bow boxes and shoots them left and right. The Qiang and Hu people are afraid of him.
In the last years of Emperor Huan's reign, as a son of a good family in six counties, he was appointed Yulin Lang, and followed Zhang Huan, the general of Zhonglang, as a military commander. Together they went to attack the rebellious Qiang people in Hanyang. After defeating them, he was named Langzhong and was rewarded with nine thousand bundles of silk.
Dong Zhuo said: I am the one who records the merits, and the soldiers are the ones who make the merits.
So they were all distributed to the soldiers, leaving nothing behind.
He was gradually promoted to the rank of captain of Wuji School in the Western Regions, but was dismissed for some reasons.
Later he became the governor of Bingzhou and the governor of Hedong.
In the first year of Zhongping, he was appointed as Shu Zhonglang General. With integrity, he went to Xiaquyang to attack Zhangjiao on behalf of Lu Zhi. He was defeated and punished.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
其冬，北地先零羌及枹罕河关群盗反叛，遂共立湟中义从胡北宫伯玉、李文侯为将军，杀护羌校尉泠征。
伯玉等乃劫致金城人边章、韩遂，使专任军政，共杀金城太守陈懿，攻烧州郡。
明年春，将数万骑入寇三辅，侵逼园陵，托诛宦官为名。
诏以卓为中郎将，副左车骑将军皇甫嵩征之。
嵩以无功免归，而边章、韩遂等大盛。
朝廷复以司空张温为车骑将军，假节，执金吾袁滂为副。
拜卓破虏将军，与荡寇将军周慎并统于温。
并诸郡兵步骑合十余万，屯美阳，以卫园陵。
章、遂亦进兵美阳。
温、卓与战，辄不利。
十一月，夜有流星如火，光长十余丈，照章、遂营中，驴马尽鸣。贼以为不祥，欲归金城。卓闻之喜，明日，乃与右扶风鲍鸿等并兵俱攻，大破之，斩首数千级。
translation: 
That winter, the Ling Qiang and Paohan Heguan bandits in the north rebelled, so they jointly supported Beigong Boyu and Li Wenhou, the Hu people who had surrendered to Huangzhong, as generals, and killed the Qiang captain Ling Zheng.
Boyu and others kidnapped Bian Zhang and Han Sui, who came to Jincheng, and made them specialize in military administration. Together they killed Jincheng prefect Chen Yi, attacked and burned the prefectures and counties.
In the spring of the next year, he led tens of thousands of cavalry to invade the Third Auxiliary and approached the royal cemetery, under the pretext of killing the eunuchs.
The imperial court issued an edict appointing Dong Zhuo as Zhonglang General and serving as the deputy of Zuo Chaoqi General Huangfu Song to conquer them.
Huangfu Song was dismissed and recalled due to ineffectiveness, while Bian Zhang, Han Sui and others became more powerful.
The imperial court also appointed Sikong Zhang Wen as the general of chariots and cavalry. During the holiday, Yuan Pang, the commander of Jinwu, was appointed as his deputy.
Dong Zhuo was appointed as the Polu General, and he and Zhou Shen, the Dangqi General, were under the command of Zhang Wen.
A total of more than 100,000 infantry and cavalrymen from all counties were combined and stationed at Meitun to protect the royal cemetery.
Bian Zhang and Han Sui also marched into Meiyang.
Zhang Wen and Dong Zhuo always lost when they fought with them.
In November, there was a shooting star like fire at night, with a light of more than ten feet long, shining in Bianzhang and Han Sui's camp. Donkeys and horses were braying together. The thieves thought it was unlucky and wanted to return to the Golden Globe. Emperor Dong was overjoyed when he heard about it. The next day, he joined forces with You Fufeng, Bao You and others to attack, defeating the enemy and beheading thousands of people.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
章、遂败走榆中，温乃遣周慎将三万人追讨之。
温参军事孙坚说慎曰： 贼城中无谷，当外转粮食。坚愿得万人断其运道，将军以大兵继后，贼必困乏而不敢战。
若走入羌中，并力讨之，则凉州可定也。
慎不从，引军围榆中城。
而章、遂分屯葵园狭，反断慎运道。
慎惧，乃弃车重而退。
温时亦使卓将兵三万讨先零羌，卓于望垣北为羌胡所围，粮食乏绝，进退逼急。
乃于所度水中伪立焉，以为捕鱼，而潜从焉下过军。
比贼追之，决水已深，不得度。
时，众军败退，唯卓全师而还，屯于扶风，封黧乡侯，邑千户。
三年春，遣使者持节就长安拜张温为太尉。
三公在外，始之于温。
其冬，征温还京师，韩遂乃杀边章及伯玉、文侯，拥兵十余万，进围陇西。
translation: 
Bian Zhang and Han Sui were defeated and fled to Yuzhong. Zhang Wen sent Zhou Shen with 30,000 people to pursue them.
Zhang Wen's military officer Sun Jian said to Zhou Shen: There is no food in the city. The rebels will transport food from outside. I hope to give them tens of thousands of people to cut off their food routes. The general will follow with his troops. The rebels must be too tired to fight.
If they escape into the Qiang and join forces to attack them, then the state can be pacified.
Huangyuan refused to listen and led his troops to surround Shengcheng.
However, Bian Tong and Zheng Sui divided their troops to garrison Zheng Liyou, which cut off Lizuo's food route.
Zhou Shen was afraid, so he abandoned his baggage and retreated.
Zhang Wen also sent Dong Zhuo to lead 30,000 troops to attack the Xianling Qiang. Dong Zhuo was surrounded by Chasu in the north of Wangyuan. Food was cut off and it was difficult to advance or retreat.
So they built a weir on the river they crossed and pretended to fish, but quietly withdrew their troops from the north of the weir.
When the thieves came to chase him, the water he released was already too deep to cross.
At that time, all armies retreated, and only Dong Zhuo's army returned intact. They stationed themselves in Fufeng and granted him the title of Marquis of Lianxiang, with a settlement of 1,000 households.
In the spring of the third year of Zhongping, the imperial court sent envoys holding Fujie to Chang'an to appoint Zhang Wen as Taiwei.
When Sangong was outside the capital, Zhang Wen was the first to set an example.
That winter, Zhang Wen was summoned back to the capital. Han Sui killed Bian Zhang, Boyu and Wenhou, led more than 100,000 troops, and marched to besiege Longxi.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
太守李相如反，与遂连和，共杀凉州刺史耿鄙。
而鄙司马扶风马腾，亦拥兵反叛，又汉阳王国，自号 合众将军 ，皆与韩遂合。
共推王国为主，悉令领其众，寇掠三辅。
五年，围陈仓。
乃拜卓前将军，与左将军皇甫嵩击破之。
韩遂等复共废王国，而劫故信都令汉阳阎忠，使督统诸部。忠耻为众所胁，感恚病死。
遂等稍争权利，更相杀害，其诸部曲，并各分乖。
六年，征卓为少府，不肯就，上书言： 所将湟中义从及秦胡兵皆诣臣曰： 牢直不毕，禀赐断绝，妻子饥冻。 牵挽臣车，使不得行。
羌胡敝肠狗态，臣不能禁止，辄将顺安慰，增异复上。
朝廷不能制，颇以为虑。
及灵帝寑疾，玺书拜卓为并州牧，令以兵属皇甫嵩。
translation: 
The prefect Li Xiangru rebelled and joined forces with Han Sui to kill Geng Bi, the governor of Liangzhou.
Geng Bi's Sima Fufeng and Ma Teng also led troops to rebel, and the Hanyang Kingdom claimed to be "General He Zhong", all of whom allied with Han Sui.
They jointly elected Gu Gu as their leader, and took all their troops to invade and plunder the three auxiliaries.
In the fifth year of Zhongping, Chencang was surrounded.
The imperial court then appointed Dong Zhuo as a former general, and he and left general Huangfu Song defeated them.
Han Sui and others jointly deposed the kingdom, and hijacked the original capital of Han Yang Jianzhong and asked him to command various ministries. Yan Zhong was ashamed of being coerced by everyone, and became angry and died of illness.
Han Sui and others gradually fought for power and killed each other, and their various armies also fell apart.
In the sixth year of Zhongping, Dong Zhuo was recruited as the Shaofu, but he refused to take office. He wrote a letter saying: The subordinate tribes in Huangzhong and the Qin and Hu soldiers I brought came to me and said: The food and salary are not uniform, the things issued by the court are also cut off, my wife and children are hungry and cold, and they support my cart, preventing me from going on the road.
The Qiang and Hu people were so cruel that I couldn't stop them, so I had to boldly violate the will and obey them to appease them.
If there are other circumstances, I'll tell you more. The court could not govern and was very worried about him.
When Emperor Ling fell ill, he issued an edict to appoint Dong Zhuo as the shepherd of Bingzhou and asked him to hand over his troops to Huangfu Song.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
卓复上书言曰： 臣既无老谋，又无壮事，天恩误加，掌戎十年。
士卒大小相狎弥久，恋臣畜养之恩，为臣奋一旦之命。
乞将之北州、效力边垂。 于是驻兵河东，以观时变。及帝崩，大将军何进、司隶校尉袁绍谋诛阉宦，而太后不许，乃私呼卓将兵入朝，以胁太后。
卓得召，即时就道。
并上书曰： 中常侍张让等窃幸承宠，浊乱海内。
臣闻扬汤止沸，莫若去薪；溃痈虽痛，胜于内食。
昔赵鞅兴晋阳之甲，以逐君侧之恶人。
今臣辄鸣钟鼓如洛阳，请收让等，以清奸秽。
卓未至而何进败，虎贲中郎将袁术乃烧南宫，欲讨宦官，而中常侍段珪等劫少帝及陈留王夜走小平津。
卓远见火起，引兵急进，未明到城西，闻少帝在北芒，因往奉迎。
translation: 
Dong Zhuo wrote again, saying: I have neither foresight nor great feats, so I accept the emperor's wrong love and make me take charge of the army for ten years.
The soldiers have been close to each other for a long time. They cherish my kindness in raising them and are willing to do their best for me. Please take them with you to serve on the frontier.
So he stationed troops in Hedong to observe changes in the situation. When Emperor Ling died, General He Jin and Sili Colonel Yuan Shao planned to kill the eunuchs, but the Queen Mother did not agree, so they privately summoned Dong Zhuo to lead troops into the court to intimidate the Queen Mother.
After Dong Zhuo was summoned, he set out on the road that day.
He also wrote a letter saying: Zhang Rang, the minister of the Central Committee, and others stole the favor and caused chaos in the world.
I have heard that raising the soup to stop it from boiling is not as good as drawing fuel from the bottom of the cauldron; although it hurts to break a malignant sore, it is worse than having it invade the inside.
In the past, I went to martingale to raise troops in Jinyang to drive away the evildoers around the monarch.
Now I am going to Luoyang with drums to arrest Zhang Rang and others in order to eliminate the evil and filth.
He Jin was defeated and died before Dong Zhuo arrived. Huben Zhonglang general Yuan Shu burned down the Nangong Palace to attack the eunuchs. Duan Gui, the general servant, and others kidnapped the young emperor and King Chenliu and fled to Xiaopingjin at night.
Dong Zhuo saw the fire from a distance and led his troops forward quickly. He arrived at the west of the city before dawn. He heard that the young emperor was in Beimang, so he went to greet him.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
帝见卓将兵卒至，恐怖涕泣。
卓与言，不能辞对；与陈留王语，遂及祸乱之事。
卓以王为贤，且为董太后所养，卓自以与太后同族，有废立意。
初，卓之入也，步骑不过三千，自嫌兵少，恐不为远近所服，率四五日辄夜潜出军近营，明旦乃大陈旌鼓而还，以为西兵复至，洛中无知者。
寻而何进及弟苗先所领部曲皆归于卓，卓又使吕布杀执金吾丁原而并其众，卓兵士大盛。
乃讽朝廷策免司空刘弘而自代之。
因集议废立。
百僚大会，卓乃奋首而言曰： 大者天地，其次君臣，所以为政。
皇帝暗弱，不可以奉宗庙，为天下主。
今欲依伊尹、霍光故事，更立陈留王，何如？
公卿以下莫敢对。
卓又抗言曰： 昔霍光定策，延年按剑。有敢沮大议，皆以军法从之。
坐者震动。
translation: 
When the young emperor saw Dong Zhuo coming with his troops and horses, he was frightened and cried.
Dong Zhuo talked to him, but he couldn't answer; he talked to King Chenliu and found out the cause of the trouble.
Dong Zhuo believed that King Chenliu was wise and was born to the Empress Dowager Dong. Dong Zhuo believed that he was of the same clan as the Empress Dowager and had plans to dethrone the emperor.
When Dong Zhuo entered Beijing, he had only three infantry and cavalrymen. He felt that he had few troops and was afraid that he would not be subdued by people near and far. For about four or five days, he secretly separated his troops from the city at night and camped nearby. After dawn, he returned to the city with great fanfare, making people think that the army from the west had arrived again, and no one in Luoyang knew it.
Soon the troops previously led by He Jin and his brother He Miao all surrendered to Dong Zhuo. Dong Zhuo asked Lu Bu to kill Zhijin Wu Dingyuan and annex his tribe. Dong Zhuo's army greatly increased.
So he signaled the court to remove Sikong Liu Hong and replace him himself.
Then he summoned the courtiers to discuss deposing the emperor.
All the officials gathered together, and Dong Zhuo held his head high and said: The greatest relationship is the relationship between heaven and earth, and the second is the relationship between monarch and ministers. This is the foundation of government.
The emperor is ignorant and cowardly, unable to serve the ancestral temple and be the monarch of the world.
Now I want to follow the old rules of Yi Yin and Huo Guang and establish King Chenliu instead. How about that?
No one below the rank of Duke dares to speak.
Dong Zhuo said loudly: "In the past, Huo Guang made decisions and Tian Yannian supervised them with his sword. Anyone who dared to hinder the policies and plans would be dealt with according to military law."
Everyone present was shocked.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
尚书卢植独曰： 昔太甲既立不明，昌邑罪过千余，故有废立之事。
今上富于春秋，行无失德，非前事之比也。
卓大怒，罢坐。
明日复集群僚于崇德前殿，遂胁太后，策废少帝。
曰： 皇帝在丧，无人子之心，威仪不类人君，今废为弘农王。
乃立陈留王，是为献帝。
又议太后蹙迫永乐太后，至令忧死，逆妇姑之礼，无孝顺之节，迁于永安宫，遂以弑崩。
卓迁太尉，领前将军事，加节传斧钺虎贲，更封郿侯。
卓乃与司徒黄琬、司空杨彪，俱带鈇锧诣阙上书，追理陈蕃、窦武及诸党人，以从人望。
于是悉复蕃等爵位，擢用子孙。
寻进卓为相国，入朝不趋，剑履上殿。
封母为池阳君，置令丞。
是时，洛中贵戚室第相望，金帛财产，家家殷积。
卓纵放兵士，突其庐舍，淫略妇女，剽虏资物，谓之 搜牢 。人情崩恐，不保朝夕。及何后葬，开文陵，卓悉取藏中珍物。
又奸乱公主，妻略宫人，虐刑滥罚，睚眦必死，群僚内外莫能自固。
卓尝遣军至阳城，时人会于社下，悉令就斩之，驾其车重，载其妇女，以头系车辕，歌呼而还。
translation: 
Only Shangshu Lu Zhi said: In the past, after Taijia came to the throne, King Lu Yi had more than a thousand sins, so there was something about abolishing the throne.
The current emperor is still young and his behavior is not inappropriate and cannot be compared with previous cases.
Dong Zhuo was furious and left the table.
The next day, he summoned all the officials in the front hall of Chongde, and then threatened the Queen Mother, asking her to issue an edict to depose the young emperor.
Said: During the period of mourning for the late emperor, the emperor did not have the mentality of a son, and did not behave like a monarch. Now he is deposed as King Hongnong.
So he established King Chenliu and created Emperor Xian.
He also pointed out that the Queen Mother persecuted the Queen Mother Yongle, causing her to die of depression. She violated the etiquette of mother-in-law and daughter-in-law, and had no filial qualities. She moved her to Yong'an Palace, where she was subsequently murdered and died.
Dong Zhuo was promoted to Taiwei, acting as the agent for the affairs of the former general. He added the certificate of carriage and horse riding at the post station during the Xijie Festival and the warriors with axes and iron tigers, and was granted the title of County Lord.
Dong Zhuo, together with Situ Huang Wan and Sikong Yang Biao, all brought Zhuan to the court and wrote to the court, demanding that Chen Fan, Baowu and other party members be traced in order to comply with people's wishes.
So the titles of Chen Fan and others were completely restored, and their descendants were promoted and appointed.
Soon after, Dong Zhuo was granted the title of Prime Minister, and he could enter the court without any hesitation, and go to the palace with a sword and shoes.
He named his mother Chiyangjun and appointed Lingcheng and other officials for her.
At that time, the residences of the emperor's relatives in Luoyang City were connected, and every family had a lot of gold and silk property.
Dong Zhuo indulged his soldiers, rushed into their homes, raped and robbed women, and robbed their property. He called this "prison raids."
He also raped and harassed the princess, occupied and robbed the palace maids, and indiscriminately inflicted cruel punishments. Anyone with a little hatred would be killed. No one in the palace or outside the palace could protect himself.
Dong Zhuo once sent troops to Yangcheng. At that time, people were gathering in front of the Tutu Temple. Dong Zhuo ordered them to go forward and kill all the people, take away the belongings on the carts, load the robbed women, tie their heads to the shafts of the carts, and return to the capital singing and shouting.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
又坏五铢钱，更铸小钱，悉收洛阳及长安铜人、钟虚、飞廉、铜马之属，以充铸焉。
故货贱物贵，谷石数万。
又钱无轮郭文章，不便人用。
时人以为秦始皇见长人于临兆，乃铸铜人。
卓，监洮人也，而今毁之。
虽成毁不同，凶暴相类焉。
卓素闻天下同疾阉官诛杀忠良，及其在事，虽行无道，而犹忍性矫情，擢用群士。乃任吏部尚书汉阳周珌、侍中汝南伍琼、尚书郑公业、长史何颙等。
以处士荀爽为司空。
其染党锢者陈纪、韩融之徒，皆为列卿。
幽滞之士，多所显拔。
以尚书韩馥为冀州刺史，侍中刘岱为兗州刺史，陈留孔亻由为豫州刺史，颍川张咨为南阳太守。
卓所亲爱，并不处显职，但将校而已。
初平元年，馥等到官，与袁绍之徒十余人，各兴义兵，同盟讨卓，而伍琼、周珌阴为内主。
translation: 
They also destroyed the five-baht coins and cast them into small coins. They also collected all the bronze men, Zhongxu, Feilian, bronze horses and so on from Luoyang and Chang'an to use as materials for coining coins.
Therefore, money is cheap and goods are expensive, and a stone of millet is worth tens of thousands.
In addition, the money he cast had no outline patterns, making it inconvenient for people to use.
At that time, people thought that Qin Shihuang saw a long man in Lintao, so he cast a bronze man.
Dong Zhuo, a native of Lintao, has now destroyed it.
Although the casting and melting are different, the violence is similar.
Dong Zhuo had always heard that people all over the world hated the eunuchs who killed Zhongliang. When he took control of the government, although he did not follow the right path, he still pretended to be temperamental and promoted and appointed many scholars, such as the Secretary of the Ministry of Personnel, Secretary of Hanyang Zhou, Shizhong Runan Wu Qiong, Minister Zheng Gongye, and Chang Shi He Xian, etc.
Xun Shuang, a scholar without an official position, was appointed as Sikong.
Chen Ji, Han Rong and others who were implicated by the party all became ministers.
Those who sink and are buried are often promoted.
Appoint Shangshu Han Fu as the governor of Jizhou, Shizhong Liu Dai as the governor of Yanzhou, Chen Liu and Kong Dian as the governor of Yuzhou, and Yingchuan Zhang Zi as the governor of Nanyang.
Dong Zhuo's cronies were not in prominent positions, they were just generals.
In the first year of Chuping, when Han Fu took office, he and Yuan Shao and more than ten others formed an alliance to attack Dong Zhuo, while Wu Qiong and Zhou secretly acted as internal correspondents.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
初，灵帝末，黄巾余党郭太等复起西河白波谷，转寇太原，遂破河东，百姓流转三辅，号为 白波贼 ，众十余万。
卓遣中郎将牛辅击之，不能却。
又闻东方兵起，惧，乃鸩杀弘农王，欲徙都长安。
会公卿议，太尉黄琬、司徒杨彪廷争不能得，而伍琼、周珌又固谏之。
卓因大怒曰： 卓初入朝，二子劝用善士，故相从，而诸君到官，举兵相图。
此二君卖卓，卓何用相负！
遂斩琼、珌。
而彪、琬恐惧，诣卓谢曰： 小人恋旧，非欲沮国事也，请以不及为罪。
卓既杀琼、珌，旋亦悔之，故表彪、琬为光禄大夫。
于是迁天子西都。
初，长安遭赤眉之乱，宫室营寺焚灭无余，是时唯有高庙、京兆府舍，遂便时幸焉。
后移末央宫。
translation: 
At the beginning, in the last years of Emperor Ling's reign, the Yellow Turban remnant party Guo Tai and others started an uprising in the Baibo Valley of Xihe River, and invaded Taiyuan, and then conquered Hedong. The people fled to Sanfu and called them "Baibo Bandits", with more than 100,000 people.
Dong Zhuo sent Zhonglang General Niu Fu to attack them, but they could not retreat.
When Dong Zhuo heard about the rise of troops from the east to attack Dong Zhuo, he was frightened and poisoned King Hongnong with poisonous wine and wanted to move the capital to Chang'an.
The ministers were summoned to discuss the matter, but Huang Wan, the Taiwei, and Yang Biao, the Situ, tried their best to dissuade him. Wu Qiong and Zhou Shai tried their best to dissuade him.
Dong Zhuo then became furious and said: When I first entered the court, these two men advised me to use virtuous people, so they obeyed. However, after you took office, you raised troops to attack me.
These two betrayed me, how can I feel sorry for them!
So Wu Qiong and Zhou Suo were killed.
Yang Biao and Huang Wan were frightened, so they went to Dong Zhuo to apologize and said: "The villain is nostalgic for the old place, not to prevent national affairs. Please punish us for our ill-considered sins."
After Dong Zhuo killed Wu Qiong and Zhou Mi, he soon regretted it, so he asked Yang Biao and Huang Wan to be appointed as Guanglu doctors.
So the emperor moved to the Western Capital.
At the beginning, Chang'an suffered from the turmoil of the Red Eyebrow Period. The palaces and civil and military official residences were burned and destroyed. Only the Gaomiao and Jingzhao Mansion were left in the period of the Imperial Period, so they chose an auspicious day for the emperor to move in.
Later it was moved to Weiyang Palace.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
于是尽徙洛阳人数百万口于长安，步骑驱蹙，更相蹈藉，饥饿寇掠，积尸盈路。
卓自屯留毕圭苑中，悉烧宫庙官府居家，二百里内无复孑遗。
又使吕布发诸帝陵，及公卿已下冢墓，收其珍宝。
时，长沙太守孙坚亦率豫州诸群兵讨卓。
卓先遣将徐荣、李蒙四出虏掠。
荣遇坚于梁，与战、破坚，生禽颍川太守李旻、亨之。
卓所得义兵士卒，皆以布缠裹，倒立于地，热膏灌杀之。
时，河内太守王匡屯兵河阳津，将以图卓。
卓遣疑兵挑战，而潜使锐卒从小平津过津北，破之，死者略尽。
明年，孙坚收合散卒，进屯梁县之阳人。
卓遣将胡轸、吕布攻之。
布与轸不相能，军中自惊恐，士卒散乱。
坚追击之，轸、布败走。
卓遣将李傕诣坚求和，坚拒绝不受，进军大谷，距洛九十里。
卓自出与坚战于诸陵墓间，卓败走，却屯黾池，聚兵于陕。
坚进洛阳宣阳城门，更击吕布，布复破走。
坚乃埽除宗庙，平塞诸陵，分兵出函谷关，至新安、黾池间，以雀戈卓后。
卓谓长史刘艾曰： 关东诸将数败矣，无能为也。
唯孙坚小戆，诸将军宜慎之。
乃使东中郎将董越屯黾池，中郎将段煨屯华阴，中郎将牛辅屯安邑，其余中郎将、校尉布在诸县，以御山东。
卓讽朝廷使光禄勋宣璠持节拜卓为太师，位在诸侯王上。
乃引还长安。
百官迎路拜揖，卓遂僭拟车服，乘金华青盖，爪画两轓，时人号 竿摩车 ，言其服饰近天子也。
以弟旻为左将军，封鄠侯，兄子璜为侍中、中军校尉，皆典兵事。
于是宗族内外，并居列位。
其子孙虽在髫，男皆封侯，女为邑君。
translation: 
So millions of people from Luoyang were moved to Chang'an. The infantry and cavalry drove and forced them all the way, trampling on each other, and being starved and plundered. The roads were filled with corpses.
Dong Zhuo himself stayed in Bigui Garden and burned down all the surrounding palaces, temples, government offices and residential buildings, leaving no one inhabited within 200 miles.
He also sent Lu Bu to dig up the tombs of the emperors and officials below, and collect the treasures therein.
At that time, Sun Jian, the governor of Changsha, also led soldiers and horses from various counties in Yuzhou to attack Dong Zhuo.
Dong Zhuo first sent generals Xu Rong and Li Meng out to capture and plunder.
Xu Rong met Sun Jian in Liangcheng, fought with him, defeated Sun Jian, captured Ying Prefect Li Man alive, and boiled him to death.
The rebel soldiers captured by Dong Zhuo were all wrapped in cloth, stood upside down on the ground, and poured with hot oil to death.
At that time, Wang Kuang, the governor of Hanoi, stationed troops in Heyangjin and wanted to attack Dong Zhuo.
Dong Zhuo sent suspicious soldiers to challenge, but let his elite soldiers sneak north of Xiaopingjin ferry crossing, defeated Wang Kuang, and killed almost all his soldiers.
The next year, Sun Jian gathered the scattered soldiers and stationed at Yangren in Liang County.
Dong Zhuo sent his generals Hu Zhen and Lu Bu to attack him.
Lu Bu was at odds with Hu Zhen. The army was frightened and the soldiers were scattered.
Sun Jian pursued them, but Hu Zhen and Lu Bu were defeated.
Dong Zhuo sent General Li to urge Sun Jian to ask for peace, but Sun Jian refused and marched to Dagu, ninety miles away from Luoyang.
Dong Zhuo personally sent troops to fight with Sun Jian in the area of ​​​​the imperial mausoleums. Dong Zhuo was defeated and retreated to garrison in Turtle Chi and gathered troops in Shaanxi.
Sun Jian entered the gate of Xuanyang City in Luoyang and attacked Lu Bu. Lu Bu was defeated and fled again.
Sun Jian then cleaned the royal ancestral temple, filled the excavated tombs, and divided his troops out of Hangu Pass to between Xin'an and Xingchi to cut off Dong Zhuo's retreat.
Dong Zhuo said to Chief Shi Liu Ai: The generals in Guandong have been defeated several times and can't do anything good anymore.
Only Sun Jian is a little angry. Generals, please be careful.
So he sent Dong Zhonglang general Dong Yue to Xingchi, Zhonglang general Duan Xuan to Huayin, Zhonglang general Niu Fu to Anyi, and the remaining Zhonglang generals and lieutenants were distributed in various counties to resist Shandong's army.
Dong Zhuo signaled the imperial court to send Guang Luxun Xuanyao to hold the talisman to worship Dong Zhuo as Grand Master, which was above the princes and kings.
So he withdrew his troops and returned to Chang'an.
All the officials went to the roadside to greet the worshipers. Dong Zhuo used carriage and horse clothing that transcended his status. He rode in a green umbrella-covered carriage with golden flowers and outlined the barriers on both sides of the carriage. At that time, it was called "Ganmo carriage", which means that his clothing was close to that of the emperor.
He appointed his younger brother Dong Man as General Zuo and the title of Marquis of E. His elder brother's son Dong Huang was appointed as Shizhong and Zhongjun Xiaowei, both of whom controlled the army.
So everyone inside and outside the clan held official positions.
Even if his descendants are still young, the males will be granted the title of marquis and the females will be granted the title of king of the city.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
数与百官置酒宴会，淫乐纵恣。
乃结垒于长安城东以自居。
又筑坞于郿，高厚七丈，号曰 万岁坞 。
积谷为三十年储。
自云： 事成，雄据天下；不成、守此足以毕老。
尝至郿行坞，公卿已下祖道于横门外。
卓施帐幔饮设，诱降北地反者数百人，于坐中杀之。先断其舌，次斩手足，次凿其眼目，以镬煮之。
未及得死，偃转杯案间。
会者战栗，亡失匕箸，而卓饮食自若。
诸将有言语蹉跌，便戮于前。
又稍诛关中旧族，陷以叛逆。
时，太史望气，言当有大臣戮死者。
卓乃使人诬卫尉张温与袁术交通，遂笞温于市，杀之，以塞天变。
前温出屯美阳，令卓与边章等战，无功，温召又不时应命，既到而辞对不逊。
时孙坚为温参军，劝温陈兵斩之。
translation: 
Dong Zhuo held banquets with hundreds of officials several times and indulged in carnivalesque.
He set up camp in the east of Chang'an City.
He also built a castle in Yong, each seven feet high and thick, called Wansuiwu.
Thirty years of food savings.
He said: If things succeed, he will dominate the world; if they fail, staying here will be enough to support him in his old age.
He once visited the castle in Yong, and all the officials from Duke to lower level went to Hengmen to set up sacrifices to see him off.
Dong Zhuo set up a tent and held a banquet. He killed hundreds of rebels from the North who had been lured to surrender at the banquet. He first cut off their tongues, then chopped off their hands and feet, then gouged out their eyes and boiled them in a pot.
Those who were not dead were writhing and struggling in the banquet.
The attendees were trembling with fear and could not hold their chopsticks, but Dong Zhuo looked at ease when eating.
If the generals speak inappropriately, they will be killed on the spot.
He also killed the famous old families in Guanzhong one by one and framed them for treason.
At that time, Taishi observed the clouds and said that ministers would be killed.
Dong Zhuo had people falsely accuse Wei Wei Zhang Wen of colluding with Yuan Shu, so he whipped Zhang Wen in the market and killed him to cope with the changes in the celestial phenomena.
In the past, Zhang Wen went out of the capital to garrison troops in Meiyang, and ordered Dong Zhuo to fight Bian Zhang and others, but he was defeated. Zhang Wen summoned him but did not return in time, and when he arrived, he spoke rudely.
At that time, Sun Jian joined Zhang Wen's army and advised Zhang Wen to deploy troops to kill him.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
温曰： 卓有威名，方倚以西行。
坚曰： 明公亲帅王师，威振天下，何恃于卓而赖之乎？
坚闻古之名将，杖钺临众，未有不断斩以示威武者也。
故穰苴斩庄贾，魏绛戮杨干。
今若纵之，自亏威重，后悔何及！
温不能从，而卓犹怀忌恨，故及于难。
温字伯慎，少有名誉，累登公卿，亦队与司徒王允共谋诛卓，事未及发而见害。
越骑校尉汝南伍孚忿卓凶毒，志手刃之，乃朝服怀佩刀以见卓。
孚语毕辞去，卓起送至阁，以手抚其背，孚因出刀刺之，不中。
卓自奋得免，急呼左右执杀之，而大诟曰： 虏欲反耶！
孚大言曰： 恨不得磔裂奸贼于都市，以谢天地！
言未毕而毙。
时，王允与吕布及仆射士孙瑞谋诛卓。
有人书 吕 字于布上，负而行于市，歌曰： 布乎！
有告卓者，卓不悟。
三年四月，帝疾新愈，大会未央殿。
translation: 
Zhang Wen said: Dong Zhuo is famous and we are relying on him to march westward.
Sun Jian said: Duke Ming personally leads the imperial army and is powerful in the world. Why should we rely on Dong Zhuo?
I heard that famous generals in ancient times used their swords to lead the army, and there was no one who did not kill them as a demonstration of force.
So Zhou Ju killed Zhuang Jia, and Wei Jiang killed Yang Qian.
If you let him go today, you will lose your prestige and regret it!
Zhang Wen did not accept it, but Dong Zhuo still harbored a grudge, so Zhang Wen suffered.
Zhang Wen, courtesy name Boshen, had a reputation when he was young and gradually rose to the rank of public minister. He also secretly plotted with Situ Wang Yun to kill Dong Zhuo, but was killed before he could take action.
Runan Wufu, the Yueqi captain, hated Emperor Dong for his cruelty and wanted to kill him with his own hands, so he hid a knife in his court uniform and went to see Dong Zhuo.
Wu Fu said goodbye and left. Dong Zhuo stood up and escorted him to the pavilion, patting his back with his hand. Yu Cheng took out his knife and stabbed Emperor Dong, but missed.
Dong Zhuo was able to save himself, so he hurriedly shouted to the left and right to kill him, and cursed Wu Fu: "You want to make a slave!"
Wu Fu shouted: "I wish I could chop the traitor into pieces on the street to comfort the world!"
He was killed before he finished speaking.
At that time, Wang Yun, Lu Bu and the servant Sun Rui planned to kill Dong Zhuo.
Someone wrote the character "LV" on the cloth and carried it on his back in the market, singing: "Bu!"
Someone told Dong Zhuo that Dong Zhuo had not realized it.
In April of the third year of Chuping, the emperor recovered from his illness and held a grand gathering in Weiyang Hall.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
卓朝服升车，既而马惊堕泥，还入更衣。
其少妻止之，卓不从，遂行。
乃陈兵夹道，自垒及宫，左步右骑，屯卫周匝，令吕布等扞卫前后。
王允乃与士孙瑞密表其事，使瑞自书诏以授布，令骑都尉李肃与布同心勇士十余人，伪着卫士服于北掖门内以待卓。
卓将至，马惊不行，怪惧欲还。
吕布劝令进，遂入门。
肃以戟刺之，卓衷甲不入，伤臂墯车，顾大呼曰： 吕布何在？
布曰： 有诏讨贼臣。
卓大骂曰： 庸狗敢如是邪！
布应声持矛刺卓，趣兵斩之。
主簿田仪及卓仓头前赴其尸，布又杀之。
驰赍赦书，以令宫陛内外。
士卒皆称万岁，百姓歌舞于道。
translation: 
Dong Zhuo boarded the carriage wearing court clothes. Then the horse was frightened and fell into the mud. He went back to the house to change clothes.
His concubine refused to let him go, but Dong Zhuo refused to listen, so he set off.
So the troops lined up along the road, from his camp to the palace, with infantry and cavalry on the left and right, closely guarding him layer by layer, so that Lu Bu was waiting in front and behind to be on guard.
Wang Yun and Shi Sunrui secretly reported the murder of Dong Zhuo, and asked Shisun Rui to write a letter of Shao himself and send it to Lu Bu. He ordered Li Su, the Cavalry Commander, and more than ten warriors who were aligned with Lu Bu to put on the uniforms of Dong Zhuo's guards and wait for Dong Zhuo inside Beiye Gate.
When Dong Zhuo was approaching, the horse was frightened and refused to go forward. He felt strange and afraid and wanted to go back.
Lu Bu persuaded him to enter the palace, so he entered the palace gate.
Li Su stabbed him with a halberd, but Dong Zhuo couldn't penetrate his face and was wearing pin armor. His arm was injured and he fell off the carriage. He turned around and shouted: "Where is Lu Bu?"
Lu Bu responded and said: There is an edict to attack the traitors.
Dong Zhuo cursed: How dare you feed a dog like this!
Lu Bu responded and stabbed Dong Zhuo with a spear, urging the soldiers to kill him.
Master Tian Yi and Dong Zhuo's servants ran to his body, and Lu Bu killed them again.
He sent people on horseback to carry the Shao letter of forgiveness and gave orders inside and outside the palace.
The soldiers shouted long live, and the people sang and danced in the streets.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
长安中士女卖其珠玉衣装市酒肉相庆者，填满衔肆。
使皇甫嵩攻卓弟旻于眉阝坞，杀得母妻男女，尽灭其族。
乃尸卓于市。
天时始热，卓素充肥，脂流于地。
守尸吏然火置卓脐中，光明达曙，如是积日。
诸袁门生又聚董氏之尸，焚灰扬之于路。
坞中珍藏有金二三万斤，银八九万斤，锦绮缋纨素奇玩，积如丘山。
初，卓以牛辅子婿，素所亲信，使以兵屯陕。
辅分遣其校尉李傕、郭汜、张济将步骑数万，击破河南尹朱俊于中牟。
因掠陈留、颍川诸县，杀略男女，所过无复遗类。
吕布乃使李肃以诏命至陕讨辅等，辅等逆与肃战，肃败走弘农，布诛杀之。
其后朱辅营中无故大惊，辅惧，乃赍金宝逾城走。
左右利其货，斩辅，送首长安。
傕、汜等以王允、吕布杀董卓，故忿怒并州人，并州人其在军者男女数百人，皆诛杀之。
牛辅既败，众无所依，欲各散去。
translation: 
The men and women in Chang'an City sold their jewelry and clothes to buy wine and meat to celebrate, and the shops on the street were crowded.
The imperial court ordered Huangfu Song to go to Yongwu to attack Dong Man, Dong Zhuo's younger brother, and killed his mother, wife, men, women, and children, and his entire family.
So Dong Zhuo's body was thrown in the street for public display.
The weather was getting hotter, Dong Zhuo had always been obese, and the fat from the corpse flowed to the ground.
The officials guarding the corpse lit a fire with a core and placed it around Dong Zhuo's navel. It burned until dawn, and this continued for several days.
Yuan's disciples gathered Dong Zhuo's broken body together, burned it into ashes and scattered it on the road.
His castle contains 20,000 to 30,000 jins of gold, 89,000 to 90,000 jins of silver, and mountains of precious silk, silk, rice, and rare toys.
At first, Dong Zhuo took Niu Fu as his son-in-law, and he was always very close to him, so he sent him to lead troops to station in Shaanxi.
Niu Fu assigned his lieutenants Li Cui, Guo Si, and Zhang Ji to lead tens of thousands of infantry and cavalry to defeat Henan Yin Zhujun in Zhongmou.
They took the opportunity to plunder Chenliu and Ying counties, killing and abducting men and women, and looted everything they passed.
Lü Bu sent Li Su to Shaanxi with Shao Ming of the imperial court to attack Niu Fu and others. Niu Fu and others fought with Li Su. Li Su was defeated and fled to Hongnong. Lü Bu killed him.
Later, there was an unexplained panic in Niu Fu's camp. Niu Fu was afraid, so he took the gold, silver and jewelry and escaped over the city wall.
His followers, greedy for his property, beheaded Niu Fu and sent his head to Chang'an.
Li Cui, Guo Si and others hated the people of Bingzhou because Wang Yun and Lu Bu had killed Dong Zhuo, so they killed hundreds of men and women in Bingzhou in their army.
After Niu Fu died, everyone was at a loss and planned to disperse.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
傕等恐，乃先遗使诣长安，求乞赦免。
王允以为一岁不可再赦，不许之。
傕等益怀忧惧，不知所为。
武威人贾诩时在傕军，说之曰： 闻长安中议欲尽诛凉州人，诸君若弃军单行，则一亭长能束君矣。
不如相率而西，以攻长安，为董公报仇。
事济，奉国家以正天下；若其不合，走未后也。
傕等然之，各相谓曰： 京师不赦我，我当以死决之。
若攻长安克，则得天下矣；不克，则抄三辅妇女财物，西归乡里，尚可延命。
众以为然，于是共结盟，率军数千，晨夜西行。
王允闻之，乃遣卓故将胡轸、徐荣击之于新丰。
荣战死，轸以众降。
傕随道收兵，比至长安，已十余万，与卓故部曲樊稠、李蒙等合，围长安。
城峻不可攻，守之八日，吕布军有叟兵内反，引傕众得入。
城溃，放兵虏掠，死者万余人。
杀卫尉种拂等。
吕布战败出奔。
王允奉天子保宣平城门楼上。
于是大赦天下。
李傕、郭汜、樊稠等皆为将军。
遂围门楼，共表请司徒王允出，问： 太师何罪？
允穷蹙乃下，后数日见杀。
傕等葬董卓于眉阝，并收董氏所焚尸之灰，合敛一棺而葬之。
葬日，大风雨，霆震卓墓，流水入藏，漂其棺木。
傕又迁车骑将军，开府，领司隶校尉，假节。
汜后将军，稠右将军，张济为镇东将军，并封列侯。
傕、汜、稠共秉朝政。
济出屯弘农。
以贾诩为左冯翊，欲侯之。
诩曰： 此救命之计，何功之有！
translation: 
Li Jiu and others were afraid, so they sent people to Chang'an first to beg for mercy.
Wang Yun believed that he could not be pardoned twice within a year and refused to agree to it.
Li Ji and others were even more frightened and didn't know what to do.
Mai Xie, a man from Wuwei, was among Li Ji's army at that time, and encouraged them: I heard that there are talks in Chang'an city about killing all the people in Liangzhou. If you leave the army and walk alone, then a pavilion chief can tie you up.
It is better to lead the troops to the west together to attack Chang'an and avenge Dong Gong.
If the matter succeeds, serve the country to bring order to the world; if it fails, it is not too late to escape.
Li Jie and others thought they were right and discussed among themselves: "If the capital does not pardon us, we will fight with death."
If Chang'an is captured, the world will be conquered; if he cannot be captured, he will rob Sanfu's women and property, return to his hometown in the west, and live a few more days.
Everyone thought it was right, so they formed an alliance and led an army of Fu Qian to march westward day and night.
After Wang Yun heard about it, he sent Dong Zhuo's former generals Hu Zhen and Xu Rong to attack Xinfeng.
Xu Rong died in battle, and Hu Zhen surrendered with his troops.
Li Cui gathered scattered soldiers along the way. When he arrived in Chang'an, there were already more than 100,000 people. They joined Dong Zhuo's old subordinates Fan Chou, Li Meng and others to surround Chang'an.
The city wall was too high and steep to attack. After guarding for eight days, some Shu soldiers in Lu Bu's army rebelled in the city, and Li Ji's army was able to enter the city.
The city was captured, troops were plundered, and more than 10,000 people died.
Kill Wei Zhongfu and others.
Lu Bu was defeated and fled out of the city.
Wang Yun protected the emperor at the gate tower of Xuanping City.
At this time, the world is amnesty.
Li Cui, Guo Si, Fan Chou and others were all named generals.
So they surrounded the gate tower and jointly asked Situ Wang Yun to come out and asked him what the grand master's crime was.
Wang Yun had no choice but to come down and was killed a few days later.
Li Ji and others buried Dong Zhuo in the county, collected the ashes of Dong's cremated body, and wrapped them in a coffin for burial.
On the day of the burial, there was heavy wind and rain. Lightning struck Dong Zhuo's tomb. The rainwater flowed into the tomb and floated the coffin.
Kuizhi was promoted to the general of chariots and cavalry, opened the government office, and became the commander of the Sili school.
The imperial guard became the rear general, the third marriage was the right general, the retired general was the Zhendong general, and they were all granted the title of marquis.
Kuizhi, Shudan, and Huizhou jointly took charge of the government.
Zhang Wei left the capital and stationed himself at Di.
He appointed Mai Chi as Zuofeng Yiyin and granted him the title of Marquis.
Jia Chi said: My idea was just a life-saving plan, so there is no merit!


Chunk 15: 
original: 
固辞乃此。
更以为尚书典选。
明年夏，大雨昼夜二十余日，漂没人庶，又风如冬时。
帝使御史裴茂讯诏狱，原系者二百余人。其中有为傕所枉系者，傕恐茂赦之，乃表奏茂擅出囚徒，疑有奸故，请收之。
诏曰： 灾异屡降，阴雨为害，使者衔命宣布恩泽，原解轻微，庶合天心。
欲释冤结而复罪之乎！
一切勿问。
初，卓之入关，要韩遂、马腾共谋山东。
遂、腾见天下方乱，亦欲倚卓起兵。
兴平元年，马腾从陇右来朝，进屯霸桥。
时腾私有求于傕，不获而怒，遂与侍中马宇、右中郎将刘范、前凉州刺史种劭、中郎将杜禀合兵攻傕，连日不决。
韩遂闻之，乃率众来欲和腾、傕，既而复与腾合。
translation: 
Only give up after resolutely refusing.
His appointment was changed to Shangshu Dianxuan.
The next summer, heavy rain continued day and night for more than 20 days. People were washed away and drowned. The wind was as cold as winter.
The emperor sent Pei Mao, the imperial censor, to review the cases of imperial prisoners. It turned out that there were more than 200 people imprisoned, and some of them were wrongly accused by Li Jiu. Li Jiu was afraid that Pei Mao would release them, so he reported to Pei Mao that he had released the prisoners without authorization. He suspected that he had ulterior motives and demanded that he be arrested.
The imperial court issued an edict saying: Disasters and abnormal things continued to appear, and rain caused disasters. The messengers were ordered to show the emperor's favor and pardon those who had committed minor crimes in order to comply with God's will.
If you want to resolve the grievances, can you still accuse him?
Ask no more questions.
When Dong Zhuo entered the customs, he invited Han Sui and Ma Teng to conspire with Shandong.
Han Sui and Ma Teng saw that the world was about to be in chaos, so they also wanted to rely on Dong Zhuo to raise troops.
In the first year of Xingping, Ma Teng came from Longyou to meet the emperor and stationed at Baqiao.
At that time, Ma Teng had a private request from Li Cui, but he was angry when he did not get it. So he joined forces with his servant Ma Yu, the right middle man general Liu Fan, the former Liangzhou governor Du Shao, and the middle man general Du Xun to attack Li Cui. They fought for several days without deciding the outcome.
When Han Sui heard about this, he led his troops to try to reconcile Ma Teng and Li Cui, and soon joined forces with Ma Teng.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
使兄子利共郭汜、樊稠与腾等战于长平观下。
遂、腾败，斩首万余级，种劭、刘范等皆死。
遂、腾走还凉州，稠等又追之。
韩遂使人语稠曰： 天下反覆未可知，相与州里，今虽小违，要当大同，欲共一言。
乃骈马交臂相加，笑语良久。
军还，利告傕曰： 樊、韩骈马笑语，不知其辞，而意爱甚密。
于是傕、稠始相猜疑。
犹加稠及郭汜开府，与三公合为六府，皆参选举。
时，长安中盗贼不禁，白日虏掠，傕、汜、稠乃参分城内，各备其界，犹不能制，而其子弟纵横，侵暴百姓。
是时，谷一斛五十万，豆、麦二十万，人相食啖，白骨委积，臭秽满路。
帝使侍御史侯汶出太仓米豆为饥人作糜，经日而死者无降。
translation: 
Li Ji sent his brother's son Li Li, Guo Bang, Fan Chou, Ma Teng and others to fight at Changping Temple.
Han Sui and Ma Teng were defeated and more than ten thousand people were beheaded. Zhong Shao, Liu Fan and others were all killed in the battle.
Han Sui and Ma Teng fled back to Liangzhou, but Fan Chou and others pursued them again.
Han Sui sent someone to say to Fan Chou: "Things in the world are unpredictable and unpredictable. Although you and I, fellow countrymen, have some minor frictions today, I am afraid we will still get together. I want to have a talk with you."
So the two rode arm in arm and talked and laughed for a long time.
After the army withdrew, Li Li told Li Cui: Fan Chou and Han Sui were joking together. I don't know what they were talking about, but they looked very close.
So Li Ji and Fan Chou began to doubt each other.
However, the imperial court still asked the imperial court to appoint Fan Chou and Guo Si to open the mansion, and combined them with the three public officials to form six mansions, and they all participated in the selection and recommendation of officials.
At that time, the thieves in Chang'an City could not be controlled and were looting in vain. Li Cui, Guo Bang, and Fan Chou divided the city into three parts and each defended their own territory. However, they still could not control it. However, their sons went on a rampage and violated the law.
At that time, a handful of rice cost 500,000 yuan, and beans and wheat cost 200,000 yuan. People were eating people, bones were piled up, and the roads were full of filth.
The emperor sent his censor Hou Wen to bring rice and beans out of Taicang to make porridge for the hungry people. After a few days, the number of people who died did not decrease.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
帝疑赋恤有虚，乃亲于御前自加临检。既知不实，使侍中刘艾出让有司。
于是尚书令以下皆诣省阁谢，奏收侯汶考实。
诏曰： 未忍致汶于理，可杖五十。
自是后多得全济。
明年春，傕因会刺杀樊稠于坐，由是诸将各相疑异，傕、汜遂复理兵相攻。
安西将军杨定者，故卓部曲将也。惧傕忍害，乃与汜合谋迎天子幸其营。
傕知其计，即使兄子暹将数千人围宫。
以车三乘迎子、皇后，太尉杨彪谓暹曰： 古今帝王，无在人臣家者。诸君举事，当上顺天心，奈何如是！
暹曰： 将军计决矣。
帝于是遂幸傕营，彪等皆徒从。
乱兵入殿。掠宫人什物，傕又徙御府金帛乘舆器服，而放火烧宫殿宫府居人悉尽。
帝使杨彪与司空张喜等十余人和傕、汜，汜不从，遂质留公卿。
translation: 
The emperor suspected that the relief aid was fake, so he personally tested the porridge. After learning that it was fake, he sent Liu Ai, his servant, to go to court to blame the relevant personnel.
So the minister ordered everyone to go to the palace gate to apologize, and asked Hou Wen to be arrested and interrogated.
The edict was issued: "If you can't bear to send Hou Wen to trial, you can give him fifty sticks."
From then on, the people received more relief and saved their lives.
In the spring of the next year, Li Jie took advantage of the gathering and killed Fan Chou on his seat. From then on, the generals were suspicious of each other, and Li Jie and Guo Si organized their troops to attack each other.
Anxi general Yang Ding was Dong Zhuo's former general. He was afraid of Li Cui's harm, so he conspired with Guo Si to take the emperor to their camp.
Li Cui learned of their plan and immediately sent his brother's son Li Xian to lead thousands of people to surround the palace and use three cars to pick up the emperor and queen.
Taiwei Yang Biao said to Li Xian: Since ancient times, no emperor has lived in the homes of his ministers. Everyone must obey God's will when doing things, how can this be done!
Li Xian said: The general has made up his mind.
The emperor then arrived at Li Cui's camp, and Yang Biao and others followed him on foot.
The rebels entered the palace and robbed the palace ladies' belongings. Li Jiu removed the gold, silk, chariots, utensils and clothing from the palace, and set fire to the palace offices.
The emperor sent Yang Biao, Sikong Zhang happy and more than ten people to persuade Li Cui and Guo Si to reconcile. Guo Si refused and took the minister as a hostage.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
彪谓汜曰： 将军达人间事，奈何君臣分争，一人劫天子，一人质公卿，此可行邪？
汜怒，欲手刃彪。
彪曰： 卿尚不奉国家，吾岂求生邪！
左右多谏，汜乃止。
遂引兵攻傕，矢及帝前，又贯傕耳。
傕将杨奉本白波贼帅，乃将兵救傕，于是汜众乃退。
是日，傕复移帝幸其北坞，唯皇后、宋贵人俱。
傕使校尉监门，隔绝内外。
寻复欲徙帝于池阳黄白城，君臣惶惧。
司徒赵温深解譬之，乃止。
诏遣谒者仆射皇甫郦和傕、汜。
郦先譬汜，汜即从命。
又诣傕，傕不听。
曰： 郭多，盗马虏耳，何敢欲与我同邪！
必诛之。
君观我方略士众，足办郭多不？
多又劫质公卿。所为如是，而君苟欲左右之邪！
汜一名多。
郦曰： 今汜质公卿，而将军胁主，谁轻重乎？
translation: 
Yang Biao said to Guo Si: The general understands the principles of the world, how can the emperor and his ministers quarrel, one person kidnaps the emperor, and the other detains the ministers? Is this okay?
Guo Si became angry and wanted to kill Yang Biao with a knife.
Yang Biao said: If you still disobey the imperial court, how can I still survive?
Many people on the left and right came to persuade Guo Bang before he gave up.
So he led his troops to attack Li Cui, and the arrow hit the emperor and pierced Ding Li Cui's ear.
Li Cui's general Yang Fengben was the leader of the Baibo bandits and led troops to rescue Li Cui, so Guo Si's army retreated.
On the same day, Li Ji moved the emperor to his northern castle again, and only the queen, Song nobles and the emperor were together.
Li urged him to send a school captain to guard the door and cut off all contact with the inside and outside.
Soon he wanted to move the emperor to Huangbaicheng in Chiyang, which made the emperor and his ministers afraid.
Situ Wen explained for a long time before giving up.
The imperial court sent the servants Huangfu Liquan, Li Cui and Guo Si to pay their respects.
Huangfu Li first went to persuade Guo Si, and Guo Si agreed.
He went to Li Ji's place again, but Li Ji didn't listen.
Said: Guo Duo is just a horse thief, how dare you be like me!
He must be killed.
Do you think my military strategy and army are enough to deal with Guo Duo?
Guo Duo kidnapped the minister again and did such a thing, and do you still want to help him?
Guo Si is also known as Guo Duo.
Huangfu Li said: Now Guo Si is detaining the minister, and the general is coercing the monarch. Who is less important and who is more important?


Chunk 19: 
original: 
傕怒，呵遣郦，因令虎贲王昌追杀之。
昌伪不及，郦得以免。
傕乃自为大司马。
与郭汜相攻连月，死者以万数。
张济自陕来和解二人，仍欲迁帝权幸弘农。
帝亦思旧京，因遣使郭请傕求东归，十反乃许。
车驾即日发迈。
李傕出屯曹阳。
以张济为骠骑将军，复还屯陕。
迁郭汜车骑将军，杨定后将军，杨奉兴义将军。
又以故牛辅部曲董承为发集将军。
汜等并侍送乘舆。
汜遂复欲胁帝幸眉阝，定、奉、承不听。
汜恐变生，乃弃军还就李傕。
车驾进至华阴。宁辑将军段煨乃具服御及公卿以下资储，请帝幸其营。
初，杨定与煨有隙，遂诬煨欲反，乃攻其营，十余日不下。
而精犹奉给御膳，禀赡百官，终无二意。
李傕、郭汜既悔令天子东，乃来救段煨，因欲劫帝而西。
杨定为汜所遮，亡奔荆州。
而张济与杨奉、董承不相平，乃反合傕、汜，共追乘舆，大战于弘农东涧。
承、奉军败，百官士卒死者不可胜数，皆弃其妇女辎重，御物符策典籍，略无所遗。
translation: 
Li Jiu got angry, scolded Huangfu Li and drove him away, and ordered Hu Ben Wang Chang to hunt him down.
Wang Chang pretended not to catch up, and Huangfu Li was spared.
Li Ji proclaimed himself Grand Sima.
and Guo Si fought and killed each other for several months, killing tens of thousands.
Zhang Ji came from Shaanxi to mediate between the two, and wanted to temporarily move the emperor to Hongnong.
The emperor also missed the old capital, so he sent someone to implore Li Ji to return eastward. He went there ten times before he was allowed to do so.
The drive departs today.
Li urged him to leave Chang'an and garrison Caoyang.
Zhang Ji was made a hussar general and returned to Shaanxi to garrison.
Guo Si was promoted to general of chariots and cavalry, Yang Ding was promoted to general of the rear, and Yang Feng was promoted to general of Xingyi.
He also named Niu Fu's former subordinate Dong Cheng as General Anji.
Guo Si and others escorted the Emperor's carriage together.
Guo Si wanted to force the emperor to go to Li again, but Yang Ding, Yang Feng and Dong Cheng refused.
Guo Si was afraid that something would happen, so he left his army and went back to find Li Cui.
After driving to Huayin, General Duan Yan of Ningji prepared clothing, carriages, horses, and daily necessities for officials below the rank of Duke, and invited the emperor to come to his camp.
At first, Yang Ding had a conflict with Duan Xuan, so he falsely accused Duan Xuan of wanting to build a camp, so he attacked his camp and could not defeat it for more than ten days.
But Duan Xuan still provided meals for the emperor and supported all officials, and he never had second thoughts.
Li Cui and Guo Si regretted letting the emperor return home, so they came to rescue Duan Xuan and took the opportunity to kidnap the emperor to go west.
Yang Ding was intercepted by Guo Si and fled to Jingzhou.
However, Zhang Ji was at odds with Yang Feng and Dong Cheng, so he instead joined forces with Li Cui and Guo Si to chase the emperor's chariot and fight in Shujian, Hongnong.
Dong Cheng and Yang Feng were defeated, and countless officials and soldiers died. They all left behind their wives' belongings, and the emperor's utensils, deeds, deeds, simple policies, laws, and books were all thrown away.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
射声校尉沮俊被创坠马。李傕谓左右曰： 尚可活不？
俊骂之曰： 汝等凶逆，逼迫天子，乱臣贼子，未有如汝者！
傕使杀之。
天子遂露次曹阳。
承、奉乃谲傕等与连和，而密遣间使至河东，招故白波帅李乐、韩暹、胡才及南匈奴右贤王去卑，并率其众数千骑来，与承、奉共击傕等，大破之，斩首数千级，乘舆乃得进。
董承、李乐拥卫左右，胡才、杨奉、韩暹、去卑为后距。
傕等复来战，奉等大败，死者甚于东涧。
自东涧兵相连缀四十里中，方得至陕，乃结营自守。
时残破之余，虎贲羽林不满百人，皆有离心。
承、奉等夜乃潜议过河，使李乐先度具舟舡，举火为应。
帝步出营，临河欲济，岸高十余丈，乃以绢缒而下。
余人或匍匐岸侧，或从上自投，死亡伤残，不复相知。
争赴舡者，不可禁制，董承以戈击披之，断手指于舟中者可掬。
translation: 
Shesheng captain Jujun was injured and fell from his horse. Li urged the people around him: "Can he still live?"
Ju Jun scolded him and said: You are thugs and traitors who persecute the emperor. There are no rebellious officials and traitors like you!
Li urged people to kill him.
The emperor then slept in Caoyang.
Dong Cheng and Yang Feng pretended to join forces with Li Cui and others, and secretly sent people to Hedong. They united with the former Baibo leaders Li Le, Han Xian, Hu Cai and the Southern Xiongnu Youxian King to go to Bei. They led thousands of their troops to come together with Dong Cheng and Yang Feng to attack Li Cui and others. They defeated them and beheaded thousands of people before the emperor's chariot could advance.
Dong Cheng and Li Le guarded the left and right sides, while Hu Cai, Yang Feng, Han Xian, and Qubei served as rearguards.
Li Cui and others came to attack again, and Yang Feng and others were defeated. More people died than at Shujian.
Starting from Shujian, there were continuous attacks and killings for forty miles. Finally, they reached Shaanxi, so they set up camp to guard.
After the disaster, there were less than a hundred Hu Ben Yu Lin guards, and they all wanted to leave.
Dong Cheng and Yang Feng secretly discussed crossing the Yellow River at night, and asked Li Le to prepare the boat first and raise fire in response.
The emperor walked out of the camp and wanted to cross the Yellow River. The bank was more than ten feet high, so he tied it with silk and lowered it down.
Some of the remaining people climbed down from the shore, and some jumped from above. I don't know how many were killed or maimed.
Those who scrambled to climb onto the boat were unable to stop them. Dong Cheng used his weapons to chop them off, and chopped off handfuls of them with his fingers wrapped around the cabin.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
同济唯皇后、宋贵人、杨彪、董承及后父执金吾伏完等数十人。
其宫女皆为傕兵所掠夺，冻溺死者甚众。
既到大阳，止于人家，然后幸李东营。
百官饥饿，河内太守张杨使数千人负米贡饷。
帝乃御牛车，因都安邑。
河东太守王邑奉献绵帛，悉赋公卿以下。
封邑为列侯，拜胡才征东将军，张、杨为安国将军，皆假节、开府。
其垒壁群竖，竞求拜职，刻印不给，至乃以锥画之。
或赍酒肉就天子燕饮。
又遣太仆韩融至弘农，与傕、汜等连和。
傕乃放遣公卿百官，颇归宫人妇女，及乘舆器服。
初，帝入关，三辅户口尚数十万，自傕、汜相攻，天子东归后，长安城空四十余日，强者四散，蠃者相食，二三年间，关中无复人迹。
translation: 
The only people who crossed the river with the emperor were the queen, Song Guiren, Yang Biao, Dong Cheng, and the queen's father, Zhi Jin Wu Fu Wan, and dozens of others.
The palace maids were all snatched away by Li Cui's soldiers, and many of them froze to death and drowned.
After arriving in Dayang, he lived in the homes of common people, and then the emperor went to Li Le's camp.
Hundreds of officials were hungry, so Zhang Yang, the governor of Hanoi, sent thousands of people to carry rice as tribute and pay.
The emperor then rode in an ox cart and decided to make his capital in Anyi.
Wang Yi, the governor of Hedong Province, donated cloth and silk, and all of them were given to the officials below.
The king was granted the title of lord, Hu Cai was appointed as the General of the Eastern Conquest, and Zhang Yang was appointed as the General of Anguo. They all celebrated holidays and opened mansions.
Other villains who led soldiers rushed to beg for official status, and they couldn't make the seal in time, so they carved it with an awl.
Someone brought wine and meat to the emperor's palace to eat and drink.
The emperor also sent his servant Han Rong to Hongnong to make peace with Li Cui, Guo Si and others.
Li Jiu then returned the palace to the palace, and also returned some of the maids' family members, as well as the emperor's vehicles, utensils and clothing.
When the emperor first entered the Pass, there were still hundreds of thousands of households in Sanfu. After Li Cui and Guo Si attacked each other and the emperor returned, Chang'an became an empty city for more than forty days. The strong ones fled everywhere, and the weak ones were eaten. Within two or three years, there was no one in Guanzhong anymore.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
建安元年春，诸将争权，韩暹遂攻董承，承奔张杨，杨乃使承先缮修洛宫。
七月，帝还至洛阳，幸杨安殿。
张杨以为己功，故因以 杨 名殿。
乃谓诸将曰： 天子当与天下共之，朝廷自有公卿大臣，杨当出扞外难，何事京师？
遂还野王。
杨奉亦出屯梁。
乃以张杨为大司马，杨奉为车骑将军，韩暹为大将军，领司隶校尉，皆假节钺。
暹与董承并留宿卫。
暹矜功盗睢，干乱政事，董承患之，潜召兗州牧曹操。
操乃诣阙贡献，禀公卿以下，因奏韩暹、张杨之罪。
暹惧诛，单骑奔杨奉。
帝以暹、杨有翼车驾之功，诏一切勿问。
于是封卫将军董承、辅国将军伏完等十余人为列侯，赠沮俊为弘农太守。
曹操以洛阳残荒，遂移帝幸许。
translation: 
In the spring of the first year of Jian'an, the generals fought for power. Han Xian attacked Dong Cheng. Dong Cheng defected to Zhang Yang, who asked Dong Cheng to repair the palace in Luoyang first.
In July, the emperor returned to Luoyang and entered Yang'an Palace.
Zhang Yang regarded this as his own contribution, so he named the palace after "Yang".
He said to the generals: The emperor should be the emperor of all people in the world. Everyone has the responsibility to protect him. The imperial court has its own ministers. I should go out to defend against foreign invasion. What am I doing in the capital?
Then he returned to Wild King.
Yang Feng also left the capital and stationed in Liang.
So the imperial court appointed Zhang Yang as Grand Sima, Yang Feng as Chariot and Cavalry General, Han Xian as Grand General, and concurrently as Sili Xiaowei, and they were all awarded with talisman axes and cymbals.
Han Xian and Dong Cheng both stayed in Beijing to guard the palace.
Han Xian was arrogant and did whatever he wanted, disrupting political affairs. Dong Cheng was worried and secretly summoned Cao Cao, the governor of Yanzhou.
Cao Cao then went to the court to pay tribute and presented it to hundreds of officials below the Duke, taking the opportunity to report the sins of Han Xian and Zhang Yang.
Han Xian was afraid of being killed, so he went to Yang Feng alone.
Because of Han Xian and Zhang Yang's role in protecting them, the emperor issued an edict saying that no further questions would be asked.
So Dong Cheng, the general of the guard, Fu Wan, the general of the auxiliary state, and more than ten people were conferred as marquises, and Juju was posthumously given the title of prefect of Hongchen.
Youcao moved the emperor to Xu on the grounds that Luoyang was in ruins.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
杨奉、韩暹欲要遮车驾，不及，曹操击之，奉、暹奔袁术，遂纵暴杨、徐间。
明年，左将军刘备诱奉斩之。
暹惧，走还并州，道为人所杀。
胡才、李乐留河东，才为怨家所害，乐自病死。
张济饥饿，出至南阳，攻穰，战死。
郭汜为其将伍习所杀。
三年，使谒者仆射裴茂诏关中诸将段煨等讨李傕，夷三族。
以段煨为安南将军，封乡侯。
四年，张杨为将杨丑所杀。
以董承为车骑将军，开府。
自都许之后，权归曹氏，天子总己，百官备员而已。
帝忌操专逼，乃密诏董承，使结天下义士共诛之。
承遂与刘备同谋，未发，会备出征，承更与偏将军王服、长水校尉种辑、议郎吴硕结谋。
事泄，承、服、辑、硕皆为操所诛。
translation: 
Yang Feng and Han Xian tried to stop the carriage, but failed to catch up. Cao Cao attacked them. Yang Feng and Han Xian defected to Yuan Shu, and they committed wanton evil in the Yangzhou and Xuzhou areas.
The next year, Liu Bei, the general of the left, trapped Yang Feng and killed him.
Han Xian was frightened and fled back to Bingzhou, but was killed on the way.
Hu Cai and Li Le stayed in Hedong. Hu Cai was killed by his enemies and Li Le died of illness.
Zhang Jijun had no food, so he left his territory and went to Nanyang, where he attacked and died in battle.
Guo Si was killed by his general Wu Xi.
In the third year of Jian'an, the imperial court sent Pei Mao, a servant of the imperial court, to take Shao Shu and order Duan Xuan, the general in Guanzhong, and others to attack Li Cui. Destroy the three tribes.
Duan Xuan was appointed General Annan and granted the title of Marquis of Minxiang.
In the fourth year of Jian'an, Zhang Yang was killed by his general Yang Chou.
Dong Cheng was appointed as general of chariots and cavalry and opened the government.
Since moving the capital to Xu, Cao Cao has been in power, the emperor has no time to take care of himself, and all the officials are just filling in.
Emperor Xian hated Cao Cao's power and oppression, so he secretly issued an edict to Dong Cheng, asking him to make friends with righteous people from all over the world to get rid of Cao Cao.
Dong Cheng planned with Liu Bei. Before he could take action, Liu Bei went on an expedition. Dong Cheng also conspired with the general Wang Fu, Changshui captain Zhong Ji, and Yilang Wu Shuo.
When the incident was revealed, Dong Cheng, Wang Fu, Zhong Ji, and Wu Shuo were all killed by Cao Cao.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
韩遂与马腾自还凉州，更相战争，乃下陇据关中。
操方事河北，虑其乘间为乱，七年，乃拜腾征南将军，遂征西将军，并开府。
后征段煨为大鸿胪，病卒。
复征马腾为卫尉，封槐里侯。
腾乃应召，而留子超领其部典。
十六年，超与韩遂举关中背曹操，操击破之，遂、超败走，腾坐夷三族。
超攻杀凉州刺史韦康，复据陇右。
十九年，天水人杨阜破超，超奔汉中，降刘备。
韩遂走金城羌中，为其帐下所杀。
初，陇西人宗建在枹罕，自称 河首平汉王，署置百官三十许年。
曹操因遣夏侯渊击建，斩之，凉州番平。
论曰：董卓初以虓虎阚为情，因遭崩剥之势，故得蹈藉彝伦，毁裂畿服。夫以刳肝斫趾之性，则群生不足以厌其快，然犹折意缙绅，迟疑陵夺，尚有盗窃之道焉。
translation: 
Since Han Sui and Ma Teng returned to Liangzhou, the war continued, and they captured Longdi and occupied Guanzhong.
Cao Cao was dealing with Hebei at that time, and he was afraid that they would take the opportunity to cause rebellion. In the seventh year of Jian'an, he asked the court to confer the title of General Ma Teng to conquer the south, and the title of General Han Sui to conquer the west, and both opened their offices.
Later, Duan Yan was recruited as Dahonglu, but Duan Yan died of illness.
Ma Teng was also recruited as a guard and given the title of Marquis of Huaili.
Ma Teng responded, leaving his son Ma Chao to lead his troops.
In the 16th year of Jian'an, Ma Chao and Han Sui rebelled against Cao Cao in the Guanzhong area. Cao Cao defeated them, Han Sui and Ma Chao fled, and Ma Teng was reduced to three clans.
Ma Chao attacked and killed Wei Kang, the governor of Liangzhou, and occupied Longyou again.
In the 19th year of Jian'an, Yang Fu from Tianshui defeated Ma Chao. Ma Chao fled to Hanzhong and surrendered to Liu Bei.
Han Sui ran to Jincheng Qiang land and was killed by his men.
At the beginning, a native of Longxi established his clan in Baohan, claiming to be the "King of the Han Dynasty at the head of the river" and entrusting hundreds of officials for more than thirty years.
Cao Cao sent Xia Houyuan to attack Zong Jian and behead him, and Liangzhou was pacified.
The argument goes: Dong Zhuo was originally a fierce and powerful person, but because he caught up with the turmoil in the world, he was able to trample on common sense and harm the world. With his cruel temperament, which was like cutting open the abdomen, taking out the liver and cutting off the feet of people, killing all the people in the world would not satisfy his satisfaction. However, he was still able to treat officials and gentlemen with humility, and was not determined to bully and usurp the royal family. He was still a thief.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
及残寇乘之，倒山倾海，昆冈之火，自兹而焚，《版》、《荡》之篇，于焉而极。
呜呼，人之生也难矣！
天地之不仁甚矣！
赞曰：百六有会，《过》、《剥》成灾。
董卓滔天，干逆三才。
方夏崩沸，皇京烟埃。
无礼虽及，余祲遂广。
矢延王辂，后缠魏象。
区服倾回，人神波荡。
translation: 
Later, the thieves and bandits took advantage of the situation to cause chaos, turning mountains and seas upside down. Fire and poisonous flames began to burn, and the world was turbulent, reaching its climax.
Wow, it’s so difficult to live!
Heaven and earth are so unkind!
Zan said: When one hundred and six cathodes are encountered, it is destined to be doomed. If the country fails to save the villain and succeeds, it will lead to disaster.
Dong Zhuo's crimes were monstrous, and the heaven and earth were angry and resentful.
The world collapsed and boiled, and the capital was filled with smoke.
Excessive rudeness may bring harm to oneself, but the disaster will spread accordingly.
Liu Ya flew to the emperor's carriage, and weapons surrounded the royal palace.
The world is turbulent and restless.


