Chunk 0: 
original: 
世祖光武皇帝讳秀，字文叔，南阳蔡阳人，高祖九世之孙也，出自景帝生长沙定王发。
发生舂陵节侯买，买生郁林太守外，外生巨鹿都尉回，回生南顿令钦，钦生光武。
光武年九岁而孤，养于叔父良。
身长七尺三寸，美须眉，大口，隆准，日角。
性勤于稼穑，而兄伯升好侠养士，常非笑光武事田业，比之高祖兄仲。
王莽天凤中，乃之长安，受《尚书》，略通大义。
莽末，天下连岁灾蝗，寇盗锋起。
地皇三年，南阳荒饥，诸家宾客多为小盗。
光武避吏新野，因卖谷于宛。
宛人李通等以图谶说光武云： 刘氏复起，李氏为辅。 光武初不敢当，然独念兄伯升素结轻客，必举大事，且王莽败亡已兆，天下方乱，遂与定谋，于是乃市兵弩。
十月，与李通从弟轶等起于宛，时年二十八。
十一月，有星孛于张。
translation: 
The founder of the Eastern Han Dynasty, Emperor Guangwu Liu Xiu, whose courtesy name was Uncle Wen, was born in Caiyang, Nanyang. He was the ninth-generation grandson of Liu Bang, the great ancestor of the Han Dynasty. It comes from Liu Fa, the king of Shading who was born under Emperor Jing.
Liu gave birth to Liu Mai, the Marquis of Chung Ling Festival, Liu Mai gave birth to Liu Wai, the governor of Yulin, Liu Hui, the captain of Julu, was born to Liu Wai, Liu Qin was born to Liu Qin, the Nandun order, and Liu Qin was born to Guangwu.
Guangwu lost his father at the age of nine and was raised by his uncle Liu Liang.
He is seven feet three inches tall, has thick eyebrows, a wide mouth, a protruding nose, and a full forehead.
He is industrious by nature and enjoys farming. His elder brother Bo Sheng was fond of chivalry and raising people. He often ridiculed Guang Wu for only working in the fields and compared him with Liu Bang's second brother Liu Zhong.
It was not until the reign of Wang Mang and Tianfeng that Guangwu came to Chang'an to study "Shang Shu" as a disciple and roughly understand the gist of the book.
In Wang Mang's last years, there were successive locust plagues in the country, and bandits and bandits were raging.
In the third year of Emperor Di Huang's reign, there was a serious famine in Nanyang, and most of the family's guests went out to rob and steal.
In order to avoid the government, Guangwu fled to Xinye County and transported the harvested grain to Wancheng to sell.
Li Tong and others from Wan used prophecies and talismans to tell Guangwu: The Liu family has risen again, and the Li family will be the assistant. Guangwu didn't dare to act rashly at first, but then he thought that his brother Bo Sheng would do great things by making friends with diners. Moreover, Wang Mang's regime showed signs of decline and destruction, and the world was in turmoil, so he planned with the Li family and decided to raise an army, so he began to purchase various weapons.
In October, he and Li Tong's cousin Li Yi and others raised troops in Wancheng. He was 28 years old at the time.
In November, the comet appeared in Zhangsu in the south.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
光武遂将宾客还舂陵。
时伯升已会众起兵。
初，诸家子弟恐惧，皆亡逃自匿，曰 伯升杀我 。
及见光武绛衣大冠，皆惊曰 谨厚者亦复为之 ，乃稍自安。
伯升于是招新市、平林兵，与其帅王凤、陈牧西击长聚。
光武初骑牛，杀新野尉乃得马。
进屠唐子乡，又杀湖阳尉。
军中分财物不均，众恚恨，欲反攻诸刘。
光武敛宗人所得物，悉以与之，众乃悦。
进拔棘阳，与王莽前队大夫甄阜、属正梁丘赐战于小长安，汉军大败，还保棘阳。
更始元年正月甲子朔，汉军复与甄阜、梁丘赐战于沘水西，大破之。斩阜、赐。
伯升又破王莽纳言将军严尤、秩宗将军陈茂于淯阳，进围宛城。
二月辛巳，立刘圣公为天子，以伯升为大司徒，光武为太常偏将军。
三月，光武别与诸将徇昆阳、定陵、郾，皆下之。
多得牛、马、财物，谷数十万斛，转以馈宛下。
莽闻阜、赐死，汉帝立，大惧，遣大司徒王寻、大司空王邑将兵百万，其甲士四十二万人，五月，到颍川，复与严尤、陈茂合。
初，光武为舂陵侯家讼逋租于尤，尤见而奇之。
及是时，城中出降尤者言光武不取财物，但会兵计策。
尤笑曰： 是美须眉者邪？
translation: 
Guangwu then led his retainers back to Chongling.
At this time, Bo Sheng had gathered the people to raise troops.
At first, the children of each family were very frightened. They ran and hid, saying: "Bosheng wants to kill us!"
When they saw Guangwu in crimson robes and crowns, they were all surprised and said: "Uncle Wen, who is cautious and kind, has also raised an army!"
Only then did everyone settle down. Bo Sheng then recruited troops from Xinshi and Pinglin, and together with his leaders Wang Feng and Chen Mu, went west to attack Changju.
Guangwu first rode the bull, and then he was able to ride the horse after killing Xin Yewei.
He entered Tu Tangzi Township and killed the Huyang county captain.
The wealth obtained by the army was unevenly distributed, and everyone was angry. The soldiers wanted to counterattack the Liu family.
Guangwu then collected all the property from his clan and gave it all to the soldiers. Only then did everyone feel satisfied.
He then attacked and captured Jiyang, and fought with Wang Mang's former commander Zhen Fu and Zhengliangqiu in Xiaochang'an. As a result, the Han army was defeated and had to retreat to Jiyang.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Gengshi, the Han army fought against Zhenfu and Liangqiuci in the west of Xianshui River. They defeated the enemy and killed Zhenfu and Liangqiuci.
Bo Sheng defeated Wang Mang's general Yan You and Zhizong's general Chen Mao in Huoyang, and then besieged Wancheng.
On the first day of February, Liu Xuan was proclaimed emperor. Liu Xuan appointed Bo Sheng as the Great Situ and Guang Wu as the Taichang Commander.
In March, Guangwu and other generals attacked Kunyang, Dingling and Lu, and captured them all.
A lot of cattle, horses and property were seized, as well as hundreds of thousands of grains, which were transferred to the troops under Wancheng.
When Wang Mang learned that Zhen Fu and Liang Qiuci had been killed and that the Han Emperor had been established, he was very frightened, so he sent Grand Situ Wang Xun and Grand Sikong Wang Yi to lead millions of troops, including 420,000 armored soldiers. In May, he arrived at Yingchuan and joined forces with Yan You and Chen Mao.
At first, Guangwu complained to Yan You about the rent arrears of Chonglinghou's tenants. Yan You treated Guangwu differently when he saw him.
Now, Yan You listened to the people who surrendered to him in the city and said that Guangwu did not collect property, but only trained soldiers to make plans.
Yan You smiled and said: Is he the man with the bushy eyebrows?


Chunk 2: 
original: 
何为乃如是！
初，王莽征天下能为兵法者六十三家数百人，并以为军吏；选练武卫，招募猛士，旌旗辎重，千里不绝。
时有长人巨无霸，长一丈，大十围，以为垒尉；又驱诸猛兽虎豹犀象之属，以助威武。
自秦、汉出师之盛，未尝有也。
光武将数千兵，徼之于阳关。
诸将见寻、邑兵盛，反走，驰入昆阳，皆惶怖，忧念妻孥，欲散归诸城。
光武议曰： 今兵谷既少，而外寇强大，并力御之，功庶可立；如欲分散，势无俱全。
且宛城未拔，不能相救，昆阳即破，一日之间，诸部亦灭矣。
今不同心胆共举功名，反欲守妻子财物邪？ 诸将怒曰： 刘将军何敢如是！ 光武笑而起。
会候骑还，言大兵且至城北，军陈数百里，不见其后。
诸将遽相谓曰： 更请刘将军计之。 光武复为图画成败。
诸将忧迫，皆曰： 诺 。
translation: 
Why would he do this!
At the beginning, Wang Mang recruited hundreds of people from sixty-three families in the world who knew the art of war and appointed them as military officers. He selected and trained guards, recruited warriors, and carried banners and baggage for thousands of miles.
At that time, there was a giant named Big Mac, who was ten feet tall and ten inches thick at the waist. He was appointed as a lieutenant in the military base. He drove wild beasts such as tigers, leopards, rhinoceros, and elephants to boost the military's power.
The grand occasion of leaving the army was unprecedented since the Qin and Han Dynasties.
Guangwu led thousands of troops to intercept Wang Mang's army at Yangguan.
When the generals saw that Wang Xun and Wang Yi's troops were strong, they turned around and ran away, rushing back to Kunyang. They were all afraid and worried about their wives and children, so they wanted to disperse and return to their respective cities.
Guangwu suggested: Now we have few troops and food, but the foreign invaders are strong. If we work together to resist, we may be able to achieve success; if we are scattered, we will definitely not be able to survive.
Moreover, Wancheng has not been captured, and the troops there cannot rescue us. Once Kunyang is captured, all our ministries will be wiped out within one day.
Now, instead of working together to gain fame, do we want to keep our wives, children, and property? The generals said angrily: "Why did General Liu say such a thing!" Guangwu stood up with a smile.
At this time, the enemy cavalry who happened to be watching came back and said that a large number of enemies were coming to the north of the city. The army and horses were lined up for hundreds of miles, and the tail of the team could not be seen.
The generals quickly said to each other: It is better to ask General Liu for advice on how to deal with it. Guangwu also planned success or failure strategies for everyone.
The generals were worried and embarrassed, and they all said: Just do it like this!


Chunk 3: 
original: 
时城中唯有八九千人，光武乃使成国上公王凤、廷尉大将军王常留守，夜自与骠骑大将军宗佻、五威将军李轶等十三骑，出城南门，于外收兵。
时莽军到城下者且十万，光武几不得出。
既至郾、定陵，悉发诸营兵，而诸将贪惜财货，欲分留守之。
光武曰： 今若破敌，珍珤万倍，大功可成；如为所败，首领无余，何财物之有！ 众乃从。
严尤说王邑曰： 昆阳城小而坚，今假号者在宛，亟进大兵，彼必奔走；宛败，昆阳自服。 邑曰： 吾昔以虎牙将军围翟义，坐不生得，以见责让。
今将百万之众，遇城而不能下，何谓邪？ 遂围之数十重，列营百数，云车十余丈，瞰临城中，旗帜蔽野，埃尘连天，钲鼓之声闻数百里。
或为地道，冲輣橦城。
积弩乱发，矢下如雨，城中负户而汲。
王凤等乞降，不许。
translation: 
At this time, there were only eight or nine thousand people in the city, so Guangwu asked Chengguo Duke Wang Feng and Tingwei General Wang Chang to guard the city. He, Hussar General Zong Yan, Wuwei General Li Yi and other thirteen people rode out of the south gate of the city at night to organize troops outside.
By this time, nearly 100,000 Wang Mang's troops had arrived at the city gates, and Guangwu could hardly get out of the city.
When they arrived at Lin and Dingling, they mobilized all the troops from all the barracks, but the generals were greedy for money and wanted to divide their troops and stay behind.
Guangwu said: Now if we defeat the enemy, the treasure will be ten thousand times greater, and we will achieve great success; if we are defeated by the enemy, we will not be able to save our heads, so how can we have any wealth?
Everyone followed Guangwu's advice. Yan You advised Wang Yi, saying: Kunyang City is small but strong, and Liu Xuan, who has claimed to be the emperor, is in Wancheng. If we quickly send a large army to attack, they will definitely escape. If Wancheng is defeated, Kunyang will naturally surrender. Wang Yi said: In the past, as General Huya, I besieged Zhai Yi and was blamed for not capturing him alive.
Now with an army of millions, how can we justify it if we encounter a city and cannot take it? So they surrounded Kunyang dozens of times, set up hundreds of camps, and erected a cloud chariot more than ten feet high. Looking down at the city, flags were everywhere, dust filled the sky, and the sound of golden drums could be heard for hundreds of miles.
Some troops dug tunnels, and some troops used wooden dolls and carts to attack the city.
Bows and crossbows fired wildly, arrows rained down like rain, and the people in the city had to carry door panels on their backs to draw water.
Wang Feng and others asked to surrender, but were not allowed.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
寻、邑自以为功在漏刻，意气甚逸。夜有流星坠营中，昼有云如坏山，当营而陨，不及地尺而散，吏士皆厌伏。
六月己卯，光武遂与营部俱进，自将步骑千余，前去大军四五里而陈。寻、邑亦遣兵数千合战。
光武奔之，斩首数十级。
诸部喜曰： 刘将军平生见小敌怯，今见大敌勇，甚可怪也，且复居前。
请助将军！ 光武复进、寻、邑兵却，诸部共乘之，斩首数百千级。
连胜，遂前。
时，伯升拔宛已三日，而光武尚未知。乃伪使持书报城中，云 宛下兵到 ，而阳墯其书。
寻、邑得之，不憙。
诸将既经累捷，胆气益壮，无不一当百。
光武乃与敢死者三千人，从城西水上冲其中坚，寻、邑陈乱，乘锐崩之，遂杀王寻。
城中亦鼓噪而出，中外合势，震呼动天地，莽兵大溃，走者相腾践，奔殪百余里间。
会大雷风，屋瓦皆飞，雨下如注，滍川盛溢，虎豹皆股战，士卒争赴，溺死者以万数，水为不流。王邑、严尤、陈茂轻骑乘死人度水逃去。尽获其军实辎重、车甲珍宝，不可胜算，举之连月不尽，或燔烧其余。
translation: 
Wang Xun Wang Yi thought that his success was instantaneous, and he was in a leisurely and contented mood. Meteors fell into the barracks at night, and clouds appeared during the day. The camp fell like a collapsed mountain, and it dispersed less than a foot away from the ground. All the officers and soldiers lay prone on the ground.
On the first day of June, Guangwu advanced with the army. He led more than a thousand infantry and cavalry and set up a formation four or five miles in front of Wang Mang's army. Wang Xun and Wang Yi also sent thousands of soldiers to fight.
Guangwu rushed to kill the enemy troops and killed dozens of them.
All the subordinates said happily: "General Liu has been afraid of weak enemies all his life, but today he is unstoppable when he encounters strong enemies. It is very strange, and he is at the front again."
Let us also assist the general! Guangwu rushed towards the enemy. Wang Yi and Wang Xun's troops retreated. Taking advantage of the victory, his troops attacked and killed hundreds or thousands of the enemy.
After repeated victories, the team moved forward.
At this time, Bo Sheng had captured Wancheng for three days, but Guangwu didn't know it yet, so he sent someone pretending to be an envoy from the troops under Wancheng, and brought a letter to report to the city, saying that reinforcements from Wancheng had arrived, but he pretended to accidentally lose the letter.
Wang Xun and Wang Yi's letters made me unhappy.
The Han army won several victories and became more courageous. One man was worth a hundred.
Guangwu led another 3,000 death squads and charged at the enemy's backbone from the water west of the city. Wang Xun and Wang Yi's military formations were in chaos. Guangwu used his vigor to destroy the enemy formation and killed Wang Xun.
Kunyang City also beat drums and shouted and rushed out. The internal and external attacks were combined, the sound shook the heaven and the earth. The reckless army was defeated. The fleeing soldiers trampled each other, and the casualties were scattered for more than a hundred miles.
There happened to be a strong thunder and strong wind in the sky, and the roof tiles were blown away. Heavy rain poured down and the water in the Sichuan River surged. Tigers and leopards trembled with fear. Soldiers rushed to cross the water to escape. Tens of thousands drowned and the river stopped flowing. Wang Yi, Yan You, and Chen Mao rode lightly on horseback and escaped across the river on the dead men. They were so powerful that the Mang army's food, grass, equipment, tanks, armor, and treasures were countless. They couldn't move them all for several months, and some had to be burned.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
光武因复徇下颍阳。
会伯升为更始所害，光武自父城驰诣宛谢。
司徒官属迎吊光武，光武难交私语，深引过而已。
未尝自伐昆阳之功，又不敢为伯升服丧，饮食言笑如平常。
更始以是惭，拜光武为破虏大将军，封武信侯。
九月庚戌，三辅豪杰共诛王莽，传首诣宛。
更始将北都洛阳，以光武行司隶校尉，使前整修宫府。
于是置僚属，作文移，从事司察，一如旧章。
时三辅吏士东迎更始，见诸将过，皆冠帻，而服妇人衣，诸于绣镼，莫不笑之，或有畏而走者。
及见司隶僚属，皆欢喜不自胜。
老吏或垂涕曰： 不图今日复见汉官威仪！ 由是识者皆属心焉。
及更始至洛阳，乃遣光武以破虏将军行大司马事。
十月，持节北度河，镇慰州郡。
translation: 
Guangwu took advantage of the situation and captured Yingyang County.
At this time, Liu Boxheng was killed by Liu Xuan, the Gengshi Emperor. Guangwu immediately rushed from his father city to Wancheng to apologize.
The officials of the Situ Mansion all came to express their condolences to Guangwu. Guangwu was not in a position to discuss anything with them in private, but he only blamed himself deeply.
He never boasted about his achievements in the Battle of Kunyang, nor did he dare to mourn for Bo Sheng. He ate, talked and laughed as naturally as usual.
Emperor Gengshi felt guilty about this, so he worshiped Guangwu as the general of Polu and named him Marquis of Wuxin.
On the third day of September, the three auxiliary heroes of Chang'an worked together to kill Wang Mang and sent his head to Wancheng.
Emperor Gengshi was about to go north to make his capital Luoyang, so he asked Guangwu to act as Sili Xiaowei and asked him to go to Luoyang first to repair the palace and government offices.
Guangwu then set up subordinate officials to draft official documents to conduct historical inspections and illegal affairs, and everything was handled according to the old system of the Han Dynasty.
At this time, the three auxiliary officials went east to welcome Emperor Gengshi. When they saw the generals passing by, they all wore civilian headscarves, women's clothes, large tie-ups and embroidered half-armor, and everyone laughed at them.
Some even run away in fear of disaster because of the ominous things they are convinced of. When they saw Guangwu's staff, they were all overjoyed.
Some old officials shed tears and said: "I didn't expect to see the majesty and grace of my Han officials again today!" From then on, all knowledgeable people turned to Guangwu.
When Gengshi arrived in Luoyang, he appointed Guangwu as General Polu to act as Grand Sima.
In October, Guangwu took the talisman and crossed the Yellow River to the north to calm the officials and people of the prefecture and county.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
所到部县，辄见二千石、长吏、三老、官属，下至佐史，考察黜陟，如州牧行部事。
辄平遣囚徒，除王莽苛政，复汉官名。吏人喜悦，争持牛、酒迎劳。
进至邯郸，故赵缪王子林说光武曰： 赤眉今在河东，但决水灌之，百万之众可使为鱼。 光武不答，去之真定。
林于是乃诈以卜者王郎为成帝子子舆，十二月，立郎为天子，都邯郸，遂遣使者降下郡国。
二年正月，光武以王郎新盛，乃北徇蓟。
王郎移檄购光武十万户，而故广阳王子刘接起兵蓟中以应郎，城内扰乱，转相惊恐，言邯郸使者方到，二千石以下皆出迎。
于是光武趣驾南辕，晨夜不敢入城邑，舍食道傍。
至饶阳，官属皆乏食。
光武乃自称邯郸使者，入传舍。
传吏方进食，从者饥，争夺之。
传吏疑其伪，乃椎鼓数十通，绐言邯郸将军至，官属皆失色。
光武升车欲驰，既而惧不免，徐还坐，曰： 请邯郸将军人。 久乃驾去。
传中人遥语门者闭之。
translation: 
When arriving at a county, he would meet with the county governor, chief officials, three elders, officials, and officials, down to the assistant historian, to inspect promotion matters, just like a state herdsman inspecting the county to handle affairs.
He vindicated wrongful cases, released prisoners, got rid of Wang Mang's harsh rule, and restored the official title of the Han Dynasty. The officials and the people were happy, and they rushed to greet them with cattle and wine.
When they arrived at Handan, Liu Lin, the son of the late King Mu of Zhao, offered advice to Guangwu: The Red Eyebrow Army is now in the east of the river. As long as the Yellow River is opened to flood them, the Red Eyebrow Army of millions will become fish and shrimps in an instant. Guangwu didn't answer and left Handan for Zhending.
Zhao Lin asked Wang Lang, who was engaged in divination, to pretend to be Liu Ziyu, the son of the emperor. In December, he proclaimed Wang Lang the emperor, made Handan his capital, and sent envoys to persuade the counties to surrender.
In the first month of the second year of Gengshi, Guangwu went north to inspect Jidi because of Wang Lang's new rise.
Wang Lang issued a proclamation, promising to kill those who captured Guangwu and grant him the title of 100,000 households. Liu Jie, the son of the late King Liu Jia of Guangyang, raised an army in Jizhong to support the king. The city of Jicheng was disrupted and the people were frightened. It was also said that an envoy from Handan had just arrived, and officials with a weight of less than two thousand stones went out to welcome him.
So Guangwu hurriedly drove south, not daring to go into the city in the morning or at night. He only stopped by the roadside to eat and sleep.
When they arrived at Raoyang, the officers and soldiers had nothing to eat.
Guangwu claimed to be an envoy from Handan and went to the post station to rest.
The person in charge of the post station had just brought the food, and Guangwu's people were so hungry that they scrambled for food.
The clerk at the inn suspected that Guangwu was a fake, so he beat the drum dozens of times and lied about the arrival of General Handan, which made the officials' faces change with fear.
Guangwu got into the car and wanted to run away, but then he was afraid that he would not be able to escape, so he calmly sat down and said, "Please come in, General Handan!" After waiting for a long time, I drove away.
The people at the inn told the gatekeeper from a distance not to let him in.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
门长曰： 天下讵可知，而闭长者乎？ 遂得南出。
晨夜兼行，蒙犯霜雪，天时寒，面皆破裂。
至呼沱河，无船，适遇冰合，得过，未毕数车而陷。
信都郡为长安守，去此八十里。 光武即驰赴之，信都太守任光开门出迎。
世祖因发旁县，得四千人，先击堂阳、贳县，皆降之。
王莽和成卒正邳彤亦举郡降。
又昌城人刘植，宋子人耿纯，各率宗亲子弟，据其县邑，以奉光武。于是北降下曲阳，众稍合，乐附者至有数万人。
复北击中山，拔卢奴。所过发奔命兵，移檄边部，共击邯郸，郡县还复响应。
南击新市、真定、元氏、防子，皆下之，因入赵界。
时，王郎大将李育屯柏人，汉兵不知而进，前部偏将朱浮、邓禹为育所破，亡失辎重。
translation: 
The official guarding the gate said: How can we predict the overall situation of the world? How dare you trap a noble person in the city?
Guangwu then left the city through the south gate. We traveled day and night, covered in frost and snow, and it was so cold that our faces were cracked by the frost.
When we arrived at the Hutuo River, there were no boats, and the river was frozen. Cars were able to pass, but almost before the last few cars had completely passed, the ice collapsed.
When they arrived at the west of Xiabo City, they were hesitant and confused, not knowing where to go. An old man in white clothes on the roadside pointed them out and said: Work hard, the people of Xindu County are still guarding the Chang'an government, which is still eighty miles away from here. Guangwu rushed over immediately, and the prefect Ren Guang opened the door to greet him.
Guangwu then recruited soldiers and horses from surrounding counties, and got a total of 4,000 people. He first attacked Tangyang and Jin counties, and both places surrendered to Guangwu.
Wang Mang and Chengzu Zhengpitong also led the entire county to surrender.
Liu Zhi, a native of Changcheng, and Geng Chun, a native of Song Dynasty, led their descendants to occupy the county town and dedicated it to Guangwu. Then they went north to capture Quyang. Their tribesmen gradually gathered, and tens of thousands of people were willing to rely on Guangwu.
Guangwu then attacked Zhongshan State to the north and occupied Lunu County. Wherever he went, he recruited "benming soldiers" and sent messages to the border ministries, asking them to attack Handan together. All counties and counties responded one after another.
Going south, he conquered Xinshi, Zhending, Yuanshi, and Fangzi, and then entered the realm of Zhao.
At that time, Wang Lang's general Li Yu was stationed in Bairen County. The Han army entered the area without detecting the enemy's situation. The advance guard generals Zhu Fu and Deng Yu were defeated by Li Yu, and all the supplies in the army were lost.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
光武在后闻之，收浮、禹散卒，与育战于郭门，大破之，尽得其所获。
育还保城，攻之不下，于是引兵拔广阿。
会上谷大守耿况、渔阳太守彭宠各遣其将吴汉、寇恂等将突骑来助击王郎，更始亦遣尚书仆射谢躬讨郎，光武因大飨士卒，遂东围巨鹿。
王郎守将王饶坚守，月余不下。
郎遣将倪宏、刘奉率数万人救钜鹿，光武逆战于南䜌，斩首数千级。
四月，进围邯郸，连战破之。
五月甲辰，拔其城，诛王郎。
收文书，得吏人与郎交关谤毁者数千章。
光武不省，会诸将军烧之，曰： 令反侧子自安。
更始遣侍御史持节立光武为萧王，悉令罢兵诣行在所。
光武辞以河北未平，不就征。
自是始贰于更始。
是时，长安政乱，四方背叛。
梁王刘永擅命睢阳，公孙述称王巴蜀，李宪自立为淮南王，秦丰自号楚黎王，张步起琅邪，董宪起东海，延岑起汉中，田戎起夷陵，并置将帅，侵略郡县。
translation: 
Guangwu learned the news later, gathered the defeated stragglers of Zhu Fu and Deng Yu, fought fiercely with Li Yu at the outer city gate, defeated Li Yu, and confiscated the grain, grass and supplies that Li Yu had obtained during the battle with Zhu and Deng.
Li Yu retreated to the small town, but Guangwu could not attack it, so he led his troops to capture Guang'a County.
At this time, it happened that Geng Kuang, the governor of Shanggu, and Peng Chong, the governor of Yuyang, respectively sent generals such as Wu Han and Kou Xun to lead elite cavalry to assist in attacking Wang Lang. Emperor Gengshi also sent Shangshu servant She Xie Gong to attack Wang Lang. Guangwu rewarded the soldiers well, and then marched eastward and surrounded Julu City.
Wang Lang's general Wang Rao defended the city, and Guangwu failed to capture it for more than a month.
Wang Lang also sent Ni Hong and Liu Feng to lead tens of thousands of troops to rescue Julu. Guangwu went to Nanxian to attack them head-on, killing thousands of enemy troops.
In April, he marched again and besieged Handan, winning consecutive battles.
On the day of Jiachen in the fifth month, Handan was captured and Wang Lang was killed.
The documents were seized and it was discovered that the Han military officials had colluded with Wang Lang to slander Guangwu's letter, which was called Qianzhang.
Without even looking at it, Guangwu summoned the generals to burn them, saying: "Let those who are tossing and turning calm down."
Emperor Gengshi sent his censor, Shi Zhifujie, to make Guangwu the King of Xiao, asking him to cease the war and return to the seat of Emperor Gengshi.
Guangwu declined, saying that Hebei had not yet been pacified and would not accept the order.
From then on, Guangwu began to have second thoughts about Emperor Gengshi.
At that time, the political situation in Chang'an was in chaos, and all parties rebelled against Gengshi Emperor.
Liu Yong, the king of Liang, acted exclusively in Suiyang County, Gongsun Shu proclaimed himself king in Bashu, Li Xian established himself as the king of Huainan, Qin Feng claimed to be the king of Chuli, Zhang Bu raised troops in Langxie, Dong Xian raised troops in Donghai, Yancen raised troops in Hanzhong, and Tian Rong raised troops in Yiling. They all appointed generals and invaded various counties.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
又别号诸贼铜马、大肜、高湖、重连、铁胫、大抢、尤来、上江、青犊、五校、檀乡、五幡、五楼、富平、获索等，各领部曲，众合数百万人，所在寇掠。
光武将击之，先遣吴汉北发十郡兵。
幽州牧苗曾不从，汉遂斩曾而发其众。
秋，光武击铜马于鄡，吴汉将突骑来会清阳。
贼数挑战，光武坚营自守；有出卤掠者，辄击取之，绝其粮道。
积月余日，贼食尽，夜遁去，追至馆陶，大破之。
受降未尽，而高湖、重连从东南来，与铜马余众合，光武复与大战于蒲阳，悉破降之，封其渠帅为列侯。
降者犹不自安，光武知其意，敕令各归营勒兵，乃自乘轻骑按行部陈。
降者更相语曰： 萧王推赤心置人腹中，安得不投死乎！ 由是皆服。
悉将降人分配诸将，众遂数十万，故关西号光武为 铜马帝 。
赤眉别帅与大肜、青犊十余万众在射犬，光武进击，大破之，众皆散走。
使吴汉、岑彭袭杀谢躬于邺。
translation: 
There were also bandits from various places with nicknames such as Tongma, Daxi, Gaohu, Chonglian, Tieshan, Dajiao, Youlai, Shangjiang, Qingdu, Wuxiao, Tanxiang, Wufan, Wulou, Fuping, Huosuo, etc. Each led his troops, totaling millions of people, to plunder in their respective counties.
Guangwu was preparing to attack these thieves, so he first sent Wu Han to recruit soldiers and horses from ten counties to march north.
When Miao Zeng, the governor of Youzhou, refused to obey, Wu Han killed him and mobilized his troops.
In autumn, Guangwu attacked the Bronze Horse Army in the county. Wu Han led the elite cavalry to Qingyang County to join Guangwu.
The Bronze Horse Army repeatedly challenged them, but Guangwu stood firm in the barracks and refused to fight back. Once someone from the Bronze Horse Army went out to rob property, Guangwu sent people to intercept them and cut off the Bronze Horse Army's food and grass channels.
After more than a month of this, the Bronze Horse Army ran out of food and fled in the middle of the night. Guangwu led his army to pursue them to Guantao County and defeated the Bronze Horse Army.
Before all the Bronze Horse Army surrendered, Gaohu and Chonglian came from the southeast to join the remaining Bronze Horse Army. Guangwu then fought fiercely with them in Puyang, defeated the enemy forces across the board and made them surrender, and named their generals as marquises.
The surrendered generals still felt uneasy. Guangwu knew their doubts and asked them to return to their respective armies to manage the soldiers, and then he leisurely rode on horseback to inspect each battalion.
The surrendered people talked among themselves and said: King Xiao confides in us, how can we not retaliate with death? From then on they were all convinced.
Guangwu distributed all the surrendered troops to the generals, and his troops expanded to hundreds of thousands. The people in Kansai therefore called Guangwu the "Bronze Horse Emperor".
The generals of other branches of the Red Eyebrow Army and more than 100,000 horses from Daxu and Qingdu gathered at Shedog. Guangwu led his troops to attack and defeated the Red Eyebrow Army. All the troops fled.
Guangwu sent Wu Han and Cen Peng to attack Yecheng and killed Xie Gong.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
青犊、赤眉贼人函谷关，攻更始。
光武乃遣邓禹率六裨将引兵而西，以更始、赤眉之乱。
时，更始使大司马朱鲔、舞阴王李轶等屯洛阳，光武亦令冯异守孟津以拒之。
建武元年春正月，平陵人方望立前孺子刘婴为天子，更始遣丞相李松击斩之。
光武北击尤来、大抢、五幡于元氏，追至右北平，连破之。
又战于顺水北，乘胜轻进，反为所败。
贼追急，短兵接，光武自投高岸，遇突骑王丰，下马授光武，光武抚其肩而上，顾笑谓耿弇曰： 几为虏嗤。 弇频射却贼，得免。
士卒死者数千人，散兵归保范阳。
军中不见光武，或云已殁，诸将不知所为。
吴汉曰： 卿曹努力！王兄子在南阳，何忧无主？ 众恐惧，数日乃定。
贼虽战胜，而素慑大威，客主不相知，夜遂引去。
大军复进至安交，与战，破之，斩首三千余级。
贼人渔阳，乃遣吴汉率耿弇、陈俊、马武等十二将军追战于潞东，及平谷，大破灭之。
朱鲔遣讨难将军苏茂攻温，冯异、寇恂与战，大破之，斩其将贾彊。
translation: 
Qingdu and Chimei troops entered Hangu Pass and attacked Emperor Gengshi.
Guangwu then sent Deng Yu to lead his six lieutenants to march westward to take advantage of the war between Emperor Gengshi and Chimei.
At this time, Emperor Gengshi sent Grand Sima Zhu Tuna, Wuyin King Li Yi and others to garrison in Luoyang. Guangwu also ordered Feng Yi to defend Mengjin against them.
In the first month of the spring of the first year of Jianwu, Fang Wang, a native of Pingling, made Liu Ying, a young boy of the former Han Dynasty, the emperor. Gengshi sent Prime Minister Li Song to attack him and kill Liu Ying.
Guangwu attacked Youlai, Daqiang, and Wuban Yuyuan in the north, and pursued them to Youbeiping, winning successive victories.
They also fought in the north along the river, taking advantage of the victory to easily advance, but were defeated.
The thieves followed closely, and Guangwu jumped to the high bank, where he met Wang Feng, a sudden rider. Wang Feng dismounted and gave his horse to Guangwu. Guangwu pressed Wang Feng's shoulders and mounted, turned around and smiled at Geng Yan and said: "I almost made the bandits laugh!"
Geng Yan shot repeatedly to drive back the enemy and avoid suffering. Thousands of soldiers died, and the remaining troops retreated to Fan Yang.
The troops could not see Guangwu. Some people said that Guangwu was dead, and the generals did not know what to do.
Wu Han said: "Everyone, please work hard. Brother Xiao Wang's son is in Nanyang. Why worry about having no owner!" Everyone was in panic and fear, and it took several days to calm down.
Although the thieves won the battle, they were always afraid of the glory of military power and did not understand each other's situation, so they led their troops away at night.
Guangwu marched to Anci again, fought with the enemy, defeated the enemy, and killed more than 3,000 people.
When the enemy retreated into Yuyang, Guangwu sent Wu Han commander Geng Yan, Chen Jun, Ma Wu and other twelve generals to pursue the enemy east of Lucheng and as far as Pinggu, where they destroyed Youlai and other tribes.
Zhu Tun sent the general Su Mao to attack Wencheng. Feng Yi and Kou Xun fought against him, defeated Su Mao's army and killed Su Mao's general Jia Qiang.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
于是诸将议上尊号。
马武先进曰： 天下无主。如有圣人承敝而起，虽仲尼为相，孙子为将，犹恐无能有益。
反水不收，后悔无及。
大王虽执谦退，奈宗庙社稷何！
宜且还蓟即尊位，乃议征伐。
今此谁贼而驰骛击之乎？ 光武惊曰： 何将军出是言？ 可斩也！ 武曰： 诸将尽然。 光武使出晓之，乃引军还至蓟。
夏四月，公孙述自称天子。
光武从蓟还，过范阳，命收葬吏士。
至中山，诸将复上奏曰： 汉遭王莽，宗庙废绝，豪杰愤怒，兆人涂炭。
王与伯升首举义兵，更始因其资以据帝位，而不能奉承大统，败乱纲纪，盗贼日多，群生危蹙。
大王初征昆阳，王莽自溃；后拔邯郸，北州弭定；参分天下而有其二，跨州据土，带甲百万。
言武力则莫之敢抗，论文德则无所与辞。
臣闻帝王不可以久旷，天命不可以谦拒，惟大王以社稷为计，万姓为心。 光武又不听。
行到南平棘，诸将复固请之。光武曰： 寇贼未平，四面受敌，何遽欲正号位乎？
诸将且出。 耿纯进曰： 天下士大夫捐亲戚，弃土壤，从大王于矢石之间者，其计固望其攀龙鳞，附凤翼，以成其所志耳。
translation: 
So the generals began to discuss the matter of Guangwu proclaiming himself emperor.
Ma Wu first said: There is no master in the world. If a saint rises up while taking advantage of the decline, even if you make Confucius the prime minister and Sun Tzu a general, it may still be difficult to save it.
Who is the thief now, and we gallop into battle to attack him?
Guangwu said in surprise: "Why would the general say such a thing?" He deserves to be beheaded!
Ma Wu said: All the generals have this view!
Guangwu envoy Ma Wu informed the other generals and led his troops back to Jicheng.
In the fourth month of summer, Gongsun Shu claimed to be the emperor.
Guangwu returned from Jixian and passed through Fanyang. He ordered the remains of officers and soldiers to be buried.
When they arrived at Zhongshan Kingdom, the generals reported again: The Han Dynasty encountered Wang Mang's rebellion, the ancestral temples and temples were abandoned and sacrifices were abandoned, the heroes were angry and angry, and the people of Li were in dire straits.
The king and Bo Sheng led the uprising, and Emperor Gengshi occupied the throne by virtue of his seniority, but he could not flatter the Han Dynasty and violated the general laws and regulations, which led to the proliferation of bandits and the world was in crisis.
And in your first battle at Kunyang, Your Majesty, Wang Mang was defeated. Later, you captured Handan and pacified the northern states. You occupy two-thirds of the world, occupy the territory of various states and counties, and have millions of elite soldiers.
When it comes to force, no one can compete with you; when it comes to benevolence, no one can compare with you.
I heard that the throne of the emperor cannot be vacant for a long time, and God's will cannot be humbly resigned. I sincerely hope that your Majesty, your Majesty, will put the great plans of the country first and take the people of Li and Li into your heart. Guangwu still didn't listen.
When they marched to Nanpingji, the generals resolutely asked Guangwu to proclaim himself the emperor. Guangwu said: The bandits have not been wiped out and they are surrounded by enemies on all sides, so why bother proclaiming the emperor in a hurry?
Generals, please go back! Geng Chun further said: The scholar-bureaucrats in the world abandoned their relatives and left their hometowns, and followed the king to fight among the swords and arrows. Their original plan was to achieve their ambitions by climbing up the dragon and attaching themselves to the phoenix.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
今功业即定，天人亦应，而大王留时逆众，不正号位，纯恐士大夫望绝计穷，则有去归之思，无为久自苦也。大众一散，难可复合。
时不可留，众不可逆。 纯言甚诚切，光武深感，曰： 吾将思之。
行至鄗，光武先在长安时同舍生彊华自关中奉《赤伏符》，曰 刘秀发兵捕不道，四夷云集龙斗野，四七之际火为主。
群臣因复奏曰： 受命之符，人应为大，万里合信，不议同情，周之白鱼，曷足比焉？
今上无天子，海内淆乱，符瑞之应，昭然著闻，宜答天神，以塞群望。 光武于是命有司设坛场于鄗南千秋亭五成陌。
六月己未，即皇帝位。
燔燎告天，禋于六宗，望于群神。
其祝文曰： 皇天上帝，后土神祇，眷顾降命，属秀黎元，为人父母，秀不敢当。
translation: 
Now that the work is about to be completed, the heavenly phenomena and human affairs are corresponding, but the king is delaying time, going against the will of everyone, and not ascending the throne. I am worried that the scholar-officials are desperate and their plans will fail, so they have the idea of ​​​​leaving, thinking that there is no need to stay long and ask for trouble. Once the people disperse, it will be difficult to reunite.
The opportunity cannot be delayed, and the wishes of the people cannot be violated! Geng Chun's words were very sincere. Guangwu was deeply moved and said, "I'll think about it again."
When they marched to Haoxian County, Qianghua, who lived in the same room as Guangwu when he was studying in Chang'an, brought the "Red Fu Fu" from Guanzhong, which said: Liu Xiu sent troops to deal with the unruly people, and all the tribes from all directions gathered together, like dragons fighting in the wild. In the 228th year, the virtue of fire is dominant.
The ministers took the opportunity to speak further and said: "It is important to accept the fate of destiny and comply with human affairs. Now the destiny thousands of miles away is consistent with things and coincides with it. Even if it is the white fish response of King Wu of Zhou, how can it be compared with this?"
Now that there is no emperor above and chaos in the sea, Fu Rui's fulfillment must be clearly repaid to the gods in heaven to satisfy everyone's wishes. Guangwu then ordered the officials to build an altar for worshiping heaven in the Qianqiu Pavilion in the south of Haocheng.
On June 22, Guangwu ascended the throne as emperor.
Burn firewood to offer sacrifices to heaven, to the six sects of water, fire, thunder, wind, mountains and rivers, and to the gods of mountains, forests, rivers and valleys.
Zhu Wen said: The God of the Emperor and the God of the Later Earth care about the world and send talismans to entrust the common people to Liu Xiu to be the parents of the people. I, Liu Xiu, really do not dare to take this responsibility.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
群下百辟，不谋同辞，咸曰： 王莽篡位，秀发愤兴兵，破王寻、王邑于昆阳，诛王郎、铜马于河北，平定天下，海内蒙恩。
上当天地之心，下为元元所归。
谶记曰： 刘秀发兵捕不道，卯金修德为天子。
秀犹固辞，至于再，至于三。
群下佥曰： 皇天大命，不可稽留。
敢不敬承。 于是建元为建武，大赦天下，改鄗为高邑。
是月，赤眉立刘盆子为天子。
甲子，前将军邓禹击更始定国公王匡于安邑，大破之，斩其将刘均。
秋七月辛未，拜前将军邓禹为大司徒。
丁丑，以野王令王梁为大司空。
壬午，以大将军吴汉为大司马，偏将军景丹为骠骑大将军，大将军耿弇为建威大将军，偏将军盖延为虎牙大将军，偏将军朱祐为建义大将军，中坚将军杜茂为大将军。
时，宗室刘茂自号 厌新将军 ，率众降，封为中山王。
己亥，幸怀。遣耿弇率强弩将军陈俊军五社津，备荥阳以东。
translation: 
All the officials under his command unanimously said: Wang Mang usurped the throne, Liu Xiu got angry and raised an army, destroyed Wang Xun and Wang Yi in Kunyang; killed Wang Lang and Bronze Horse in Hebei, pacified the world, and received favor all over the world.
Above it is the heart of heaven and earth, below it is the heart-warming support of the people.
The prophecy says: Liu Xiu sent troops to capture the unruly people, and the Liu family who cultivated virtue with gold and gold became the emperor.
I still refused firmly, again and again, even three times.
All the subordinates said: The emperor's great destiny cannot be delayed.
How dare Liu Xiu not respect the destiny of heaven? So the reign name was established as Jianwu, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and Gaohuang County was changed to Gaoyi.
In the same month, Red Eyebrow made Liu Penzi the emperor.
On the 27th, former general Deng Yu attacked Prince Kuang of Gengshi Dingguo in Anyi, defeated Wang Kuang's army and killed his general Liu Jun.
On the fifth day of the seventh lunar month in Autumn, Deng Yu, the former general, was appointed Grand Situ.
On the 11th, Wang Liang, the wild king, was appointed as the chief minister.
On the 16th, the general Wu Han was appointed as the Grand Sima, the partial general Jing Dan was appointed as the general of Hussar, the general Geng Yan was appointed as the general of Jianwei, the partial general Gai Yan was appointed as the general of Huya, the partial general Zhu You was appointed as the general of Jianyi, and the backbone general Du Mao was appointed as the general.
At this time, Liu Mao, a relative of the royal family, proclaimed himself "General Wei Xin", led his troops to surrender, and was named King of Zhongshan.
On the third day of August, Guangwu arrived in Huai County and sent Geng Yan and Chen Jun, the strong crossbow general, to station in Wushejin and guard the east of Xingyang.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
使吴汉率朱祐及廷尉岑彭、执金吾贾复、扬化将军坚镡等十一将军围朱鲔于洛阳。
八月壬子，祭社稷。
癸丑，祠高祖、太宗、世宗于怀宫。
进幸河阳。更始廪丘王田立降。
九月，赤眉入长安，更始奔高陵。
辛未，诏曰： 更始破败，弃城逃走，妻子裸袒，流冗道路。
朕甚愍之。今封更始为淮阳王。吏人敢有贼害者，罪同大逆。
甲申，以前密令卓茂为太傅。
辛卯，朱鲔举城降。
冬十月癸丑，车驾入洛阳，幸南宫却非殿，遂定都焉。
遣岑彭击荆州群贼。
十一月甲午，幸怀。
刘永自称天子。
十二月丙戌，至自怀。
赤眉杀更始，而隗嚣据陇右，卢芳起安定。破虏大将军叔寿击五校贼于曲梁，战殁。
二年春正月甲子朔，日有食之。
大司马吴汉率九将军击檀乡贼于邺东，大破降之。
translation: 
Wu Han was sent to lead Zhu You, Tingwei Cenpeng, Zhijinwu Jiafu, Yanghua general Jiandan and other eleven generals to besiege Zhu Tuna in Luoyang.
On August 16th, sacrifice to Sheji.
On August 17, sacrifices were made to Emperor Gaozu, Emperor Taizong and Emperor Shizong in Huai Palace.
Guangwu marched to Heyang, and Gengshi Linqiu King Tianli surrendered.
In September, the Red Eyebrow Army entered Chang'an and Gengshi fled to Gaoling.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, Guangwu issued an edict saying: Gengshi was ruined, they abandoned the city and fled, their wives, families and children were naked and scattered on the road. I pity them very much.
Now Gengshi has been granted the title of King of Huaiyin. Any officials or civilians who dare to kill him will be punished with treason.
On the 19th, when he was appointed Emperor Ping, Gao Mi ordered Zhuomao to be the Taifu.
On the 26th, Zhu Kun led the entire city of Luoyang to surrender.
On the eighteenth day of the tenth month in winter, Guangwu entered Luoyang. Fortunately, Nangong was not the palace, so he made Luoyang his capital.
On Xinmao day, Cen Peng was sent to attack the bandits in Jingzhou.
On November 30, Guangwu arrived in Huai County.
Liu Yong claimed to be the emperor.
In December Bingxu, Guangwu returned to Luoyang from Huai County.
The Red Eyebrow Army's killing spree begins. Wei Xiao occupied Longyou, Lu Fang raised troops in Anding, and Shu Shou, the general who broke the captives, attacked the bandits of the Five Schools in Quliang, and Shu Shou died in the battle.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the second year of spring, there was a solar eclipse.
Grand Sima Wu Han led nine generals to attack the Tanxiang bandits in the east of Ye, defeated the Tanxiang bandits and forced them to surrender.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
庚辰，封功臣皆为列侯，大国四县，余各有差。
下诏曰： 人情得足，苦于放纵，快须臾之欲，忘慎罚之义。
惟诸将业远功大，诚欲传于无穷，宜如临深渊，如履薄冰，战战栗栗，日慎一日。
其显效未詶，各籍未立者，大鸿胪趣上，朕将差而录之。 博士丁恭议曰： 古帝王封诸侯不过百里，故利以建侯，取法于雷，强干弱枝，所以为治也。
今封诸侯四县，不合法制。 帝曰： 古之亡国，皆以无道，未尝闻功臣地多而灭亡者。 乃遣谒者即授印绶，策曰： 在上不骄，高而不危；制节谨度，满而不溢。
敬之戒之。传尔子孙，长为汉藩。
壬午，更始复汉将军邓晔、辅汉将军于匡降，皆复爵位。
壬子，起高庙，建社稷于洛阳，立郊兆于城南，始正火德，色尚赤。
是月，赤眉焚西京宫室，发掘园陵，寇掠关中。
translation: 
On the 17th, all the meritorious officials were enfeoffed as princes. The larger ones were enfeoffed to four counties, and the rest were of varying degrees.
The edict said: After people's desires are satisfied, what they fear most is to be unruly, seeking only temporary happiness and forgetting to be cautious about punishment.
Thinking of the great achievements of the generals, and indeed wanting to pass them on from generation to generation, they should be as cautious as standing by a deep pool or walking on thin ice, and become more cautious day by day.
There are some people who have made outstanding achievements but have not received any reward, and have not yet gained fame or been granted official positions. Da Honglu should report them as soon as possible and I will hire them respectively. Dr. Ding Gong suggested: In ancient times, the emperors granted feudal lords no more than a hundred miles, and based on the criteria of "Li Jianhou" and "Lei Zhen Baili", the center was strong and the local areas were weak. This was the method used to govern the country.
Now the feudal lords are as large as four counties, which is illegal. Emperor Guangwu said: The destruction of ancient countries was due to the unrighteousness of the kings. I have never heard of heroes who had large fiefdoms and were destroyed. So he sent an audience to immediately grant the seals and ribbons to the princes. The policy book said: Don't be arrogant on the top, even if it is high, it is not dangerous; be temperate and observe the law, and don't overflow even if it is full.
Be respectful and cautious, pass it on to your descendants, and be vassals of the Han family forever.
On the 19th, Gengshi Fuhan General Deng Ye and Fu Han General Yu Kuang surrendered, and their original titles were restored.
Renzi built the temple of Emperor Gaodi, built the Sheji Altar in Luoyang, and set up the Jiao Zhao Altar in the south of the city. He began to clarify the Han Dynasty's virtue of fire and advocate the color red.
In the same month, the red eyebrows burned the palaces in Chang'an, excavated the emperor's tombs, and looted Guanzhong.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
大司徒邓禹入长安，遣府掾奉十一帝神主，纳于高庙。
真定王杨、临邑侯让谋反，遣前将军耿纯诛之。
二月己酉，幸修武。
大司空王梁免。
壬子，以太中大夫宋弘为大司空。
遣骠骑大将军景丹率征虏将军祭遵等二将军击弘农贼，破之，因遣祭遵围蛮中贼张满。
渔阳太守彭宠反，攻幽州牧朱浮于蓟。
延岑自称武安王于汉中。
辛卯，至自修武。
三月乙未，大赦天下，诏曰： 顷狱多冤人，用刑深刻，朕甚愍之。
孔子云： 刑罚不中，则民无所措手足。
其与中二千石、诸大夫、博士、议郎议省刑法。
遣执金吾贾复率二将军击更始郾王尹遵，破降之。
骁骑将军刘植击密贼，战殁。
遣虎牙大将军盖延率四将军伐刘永。
夏四月，围永于睢阳。
更始将苏茂杀淮阳太守潘蹇而附刘永。
甲午，封叔父良为广阳王，兄子章为太原王，章弟兴为鲁王，舂陵侯嫡子祉为城阳王。
五月庚辰，封更始元氏王歙为泗水王，故真定王杨子得为真定王，周后姬常为周承休公。
癸未，诏曰： 民有嫁妻卖子欲归父母者，恣听之。敢拘执，论如律。
六月戊戌，立贵人郭氏为皇后，子彊为皇太子，大赦天下。
translation: 
When the Great Situ Deng Yu entered Chang'an, he sent officials to hold the gods of the eleven emperors and offer them to the high temple.
King Zhending Liu Yang and Linyi Marquis Liu Rang rebelled, and Guangwu sent former general Geng Chun to kill them.
On February 16, Guangwu arrived at Xiuwu.
Chief Sikong Wang Liang was dismissed from office.
On the 19th, Song Hong, the Taizhong doctor, was appointed as the Grand Sikong.
He sent the hussar general Jing Dan, led the conscripting general Ji Zun and two other generals to attack the Hongnong bandits and defeated them. Taking advantage of the situation, he sent Ji Zun to besiege the barbarian bandits Zhang Man.
Peng Chong, the prefect of Yuyang, rebelled and attacked Youzhou Mu Zhufu in Jicheng.
Yancen called himself King Wu'an in Hanzhong.
In Xinmao, Guangwu returned to Luoyang to practice martial arts on his own.
At the end of March Yi, a general amnesty was issued to the whole country, and the edict said: Recently, there are many wronged people in prison, and the punishments are cruel. I pity them very much.
Confucius said: If the punishment is not appropriate, the people will not know what to do.
You should discuss the issue of exemption from punishment with Zhong Erqianshi, other officials, doctors, and Yilang.
He sent Jinwu Jiafu to lead two generals to attack Yin Zun, the king of Gengshi, defeated him and forced him to surrender.
The valiant cavalry general Liu Zhi attacked the secret bandits and died in battle.
He sent Huya General Gai Yan and four generals to attack Liu Yong.
In the fourth month of summer, they besieged him in Suiyang.
Gengshi general Su Mao killed Huaiyang governor Pan Jian and attached himself to Liu Yong.
On the second day of April, he named his uncle Liu Liang King of Guangyang, his brother Liu Zhang as King of Taiyuan, Liu Zhang's younger brother Liu Xing as King of Lu, and Liu Zhi, the legitimate son of the Marquis of Chung Ling, as King of Chengyang.
On May 19th, Wang She of the Yuan clan in Gengshi was granted the title of King of Sishui, so King Zhending Liu Yang Ziliu De became King Zhending, and Ji Chang, a descendant of the Zhou Dynasty, was Duke Chengxiu of Zhou Dynasty.
On the 22nd, the edict stated: The common people have wives who have been forced to marry and children who have been sold. Those who want to return to their husbands and parents must be allowed to follow their wishes. Anyone who dares to detain or arrest them will be punished according to law.
On the seventh day of the sixth lunar month, the noble Guo family was granted the title of queen, and his son Liu Qiang was made the crown prince, and the whole world was granted amnesty.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
增郎、谒者、从官秩各一等。
丙午，封宗子刘终为淄川王。
秋八月，帝自将征五校。丙辰，幸内黄，大破五校于羛阳，降之。
遣游击将军邓隆救朱浮，与彭宠战于潞，隆军败绩。
盖延拔睢阳，刘永奔谯。
破虏将军邓奉据淯阳反。
九月壬戌，至自内黄。
骠骑大将军景丹薨。
延岑大破赤眉于杜陵。
关中饥，民相食。
冬十一月，以廷尉岑彭为征南大将军，率八将军讨邓奉于堵乡。
铜马、青犊、尤来余贼共立孙登为天子于上郡。
登将乐玄杀登，以其众五万余人降。
遣偏将军冯异代邓禹伐赤眉。
使太中大夫伏隆持节安辑青、徐二州，招张步降之。
十二月戊午，诏曰： 惟宗室列侯为王莽所废，先灵无所依归，朕甚愍之。其并复故国。
若侯身已殁，属所上其子孙见名尚书，封拜。
是岁，盖延等大破刘永于沛西。
初，王莽末，天下旱蝗，黄金一斤易粟一斛；至是野穀旅生，麻尤盛，野蚕成茧，被于山阜，人收其利焉。
三年春正月甲子，以偏将军冯异为征西大将军，杜茂为骠骑大将军。
大司徒邓禹及冯异与赤眉战于回溪，禹、异败绩。
征虏将军祭遵破蛮中，斩张满。
translation: 
The salaries of Langguan, Yezhe and Congguan will be increased by one level each.
On the 15th, Liu Zhong, the son of the clan, was granted the title of King of Zichuan.
In the eighth month of autumn, Emperor Guangwu personally led troops to attack the five schools. On the 26th, the emperor arrived in Neihuang and defeated the troops of the five schools in Xiyang, forcing them to surrender.
He sent guerrilla general Deng Long to rescue Zhu Fu and fought with Peng Chong in Lucheng. Deng Long's army suffered a heavy defeat.
Gai Yan captured Suiyang, and Liu Yong fled to Qiaocheng.
Deng Feng, the general of the Polu army, occupied Puyuyang and rebelled.
On the second day of September, Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang from Neihuang.
General Jing Dan passed away.
Yancen defeated the Red Eyebrow Army in Duling.
During the famine in Guanzhong, cannibalism occurred.
In November of winter, he appointed Tingwei Cenpeng as the general in the southern expedition and led eight generals to attack Deng Feng in Duxiang.
The remnants of Tongma, Qingdu and Youlai jointly established Sun Deng as emperor in Shangjun.
Sun Deng's general Le Xuan killed Sun Deng and led more than 50,000 people to surrender.
He sent partial general Feng Yi to attack Chimei on behalf of Deng Yu.
He sent Taizhong doctor Fulong to hold the talisman to appease Qing and Xuzhou and recruit Zhang Bu to surrender.
On December 30, the edict stated: Thinking that the clan princes were deposed by Wang Mang and that the spirits of their ancestors had no home, I felt very sorry for them and restored their feudal states together.
If the marquis himself has passed away, the county where the marquis' descendants belong will record the current names of the marquis' descendants and submit them to the minister, who will grant them titles or titles.
This year, Gai Yan and others defeated Liu Yong in Peixi.
In the past, during the last years of Wang Mang's reign, there was a drought and locust plague in the country, and five bushels of millet were sold for one pound of gold. Now, wild millet grows without sowing, hemp and beans grow especially luxuriantly, and wild silkworms spin cocoons and scatter them on the hills, and people go to collect the profits.
On the sixth day of the first lunar month in the spring of the third year, Feng Yi, the partial general, was appointed as the general of the expedition to the west, and Du Mao was appointed as the general of the Hussars.
Grand Situ Deng Yu and Feng Yi fought with the Red Eyebrow Army at Huixi, and Deng Yu and Feng Yi were defeated.
General Ji Zun defeated the barbarian bandits and killed Zhang Man.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
辛巳，立皇考南顿君已上四庙。
壬午，大赦天下。
闰月乙巳，大司徒邓禹免。
冯异与赤眉战于崤底，大破之，余众南向宜阳，帝自将征之。
己亥，幸宜阳。
甲辰，亲勒六军，大陈戎马，大司马吴汉精卒当前，中军次之，骁骑、武卫分陈左右。
赤眉望见震怖，遣使乞降。
丙午，赤眉君臣面缚，奉高皇帝玺绶，诏以属城门校尉。
戊申，至自宜阳。
己酉，诏曰： 群盗纵横，贼害元元，盆子窃尊号，乱惑天下。
朕奋兵讨击，应时崩解，十余万众束手降服，先帝玺绶归之王府。
斯皆祖宗之灵，士人之力，朕曷足以享斯哉！
其择吉日祠高庙，赐天下长子当为父后者爵，人一级。
二月己未，祠高庙，受传国玺。
刘永立董宪为海西王，张步为齐王。
步杀光禄大夫伏隆而反。
幸怀，遣吴汉率二将军击青犊于轵西，大破降之。
三月壬寅，以大司徒司直伏湛为大司徒。
translation: 
On the 23rd, I set up my late father Nandun to go to the four temples.
On the 24th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the first day of the leap month, Deng Yu, the chief minister, was dismissed from office.
Feng Yi fought with the Red Eyebrow Army in Guidi, and defeated the Red Eyebrow Army. The remaining troops fled south to Yiyang, and Guangwu personally led the expedition.
In Jihai, Emperor Guangwu arrived in Yiyang.
In Jiachen, the emperor personally took charge of the six armies and set up a large military formation. The elite of the Grand Sima Wu Han were in front, the middle army was in second place, and the Xiaoqi and Wuwei were on the left and right.
The Red Eyebrow Army was frightened and sent people to ask for surrender.
On Bingwu, the red-browed monarch and his ministers tied their hands behind their backs, presented the seal ribbon passed down by their great ancestor Liu Bang and surrendered, and ordered the city gate captain to handle the matter of surrender.
Wushen and Guangwu returned to Luoyang from Yiyang.
Jiyou, the edict said: A group of thieves are rampaging and killing the people. Liu Penzi steals the emperor's title and confuses the world.
I led the troops to attack, and the whole army fell to pieces in an instant. More than 100,000 troops surrendered, and the late emperor's seal and ribbon were returned to the palace.
This is all based on the power of our ancestors and the strength of our soldiers. How can I deserve this honor?
You should choose an auspicious day to pray in the high temple, and reward the world with the title of the eldest son who should inherit his father's queen, and each person will have one level.
On the first day of the second lunar month, a memorial ceremony was held in the high temple, and Guangwu accepted the imperial seal.
Liu Yong falsely named Dong Xian King of Haixi and Zhang Bu King of Qi.
Zhang Bu killed Fulong, the official of Guanglu, and rebelled.
Emperor Guangwu went to Huai County and sent Wu Han and two generals to attack Qingdu in the west of Zhejiang. They defeated the Qingdu army and forced them to surrender.
On March 16, Zhifu Zhan was appointed as the Great Situ.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
彭宠陷蓟城，宠自立为燕王。
帝自将征邓奉，幸堵阳。
夏四月，大破邓奉于小长安，斩之。
冯异与延岑战于上林，破之。
吴汉率七将军与刘永将苏茂战于广东，大破之。
虎牙大将军盖延围刘永于睢阳。
五月己酉，车驾不宫。
乙卯晦，日有食之。
六月壬戌，大赦天下。
耿弇与延岑战于穰，大破之。
秋七月，征南大将军岑彭率三将军伐秦丰，战于黎丘，大破之，获其将蔡宏。
庚辰，诏曰： 吏不满六百石，下至墨绶长、相，有罪先请。
男子八十以上，十岁以下，及妇人从坐者，自非不道、诏所名捕，皆不得系。
当验问者即就验。
女徒雇山归家。 盖延拔睢阳，获刘永，而苏茂、周建立永子纡为梁王。
冬十月壬申，幸舂陵，祠园庙，因置酒旧宅，大会故人父老。
十一月乙未，至自舂陵。
涿郡太守张丰反。
是岁，李宪自称天子。
西州大将军隗嚣奉奏。
translation: 
Peng Chong occupied Jicheng and proclaimed himself King of Yan.
Guangwu personally led the troops to conquer Deng Feng and arrived at Duyang.
In April of Xia, he defeated Deng Feng in Xiao Chang'an and killed him.
Feng Yi and Yancen fought in Shanglin and defeated Yancen.
Wu Han led seven generals to fight Liu Yong's general Su Mao in Guangle, and defeated Su Mao.
Huya General Gai Yan surrounded Liu Yong in Suiyang.
On May 24th, Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang.
On the 30th, dusk, solar eclipse.
On the seventh day of the sixth lunar month, there is a general amnesty.
Geng Yan fought with Yancen in Rang County and defeated Yancen.
In the seventh month of autumn, Cen Peng, the general who conquered the south, led three generals to attack Qin Feng. They fought in Liqiu, defeated Qin Feng and captured his general Cai Hong alive.
On the 26th, Emperor Guangwu issued an edict: If the county magistrate whose salary is less than 600 shi, down to the county magistrate, or the minister of the state is guilty, he must first ask for instructions before punishing him.
Men over eighty years old, under ten years old, and women who are jointly convicted of crimes committed by relatives shall not be detained as long as they are not guilty of immoral crimes and are named in the order and arrested.
If the evidence should be confronted, the evidence should be confronted immediately. The woman is sentenced, and she can be allowed to pay someone to cut wood to compensate for her crime and be released home.
Gai Yan conquered Suiyang and captured Liu Yong, but Su Mao and Zhou Jian made Liu Yong's son Liu Yu the king of Liang. On the 19th day of the tenth month in winter, Emperor Guangwu arrived at Chung Ling.
He stayed in the ancestral temple in the Gao Si Garden and set up a banquet in the old house to entertain many old friends and fellow villagers.
At the end of November, I returned to Luoyang from Chongling.
Zhang Feng, the governor of Zhuojun, rebelled.
This year, Li Xian claimed to be the emperor.
General Kai Xiao of Xizhou submitted a memorial.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
建义大将军朱祐率祭遵与延岑战于东阳，斩其将张成。
四年春正月甲申，大赦天下。
二月壬子，幸怀。
壬申，至自怀。
遣右将军邓禹率二将军与延岑战于武当，破之。
夏四月丁巳，幸邺。
己巳，进幸临平。
遣大司马吴汉击五校贼于箕山，大破之。
五月，进幸元氏。辛巳，进幸卢奴。
遣征虏将军祭遵率四将军讨张丰于涿郡，斩丰。
六月辛亥，车驾还宫。
七月丁亥，幸谯。
遣捕虏将军马武、偏将军王霸围刘纡于垂惠。
董宪将贲休以兰陵城降，宪围之。
虎牙大将军盖延率平狄将军庞萌救贲休，不克，兰陵为宪所陷。
秋八月戊午，进幸寿春。
太中大夫徐惲擅杀临淮太守刘度，惲坐诛。
遣扬武将军马成率三将军伐李宪。
九月，围宪于舒。
冬十月甲寅，车驾还宫。
太傅卓茂薨。
十一月丙申，幸宛。遣建义大将军朱祐率二将军围秦丰于黎丘。
十二月丙寅，进幸黎丘。
是岁，征西大将军冯异与公孙述将程焉战于陈仓，破之。
五年春正月癸己，车驾还宫。
二月丙午，大赦天下。
捕虏将军马武、偏将军王霸拔垂惠。
乙丑，幸魏郡。
壬申，封殷后孔安为殷绍嘉公。
彭宠为其苍头所杀，渔阳平。
大司马吴汉率建威大将军耿弇击富平、获索贼于平原，大破降之。
夏遣耿弇率二将军讨张步。
三月癸未，徙广阳王良为赵王，始就国。
translation: 
Jianyi General Zhu led Ji Zun to fight Yancen in Dongyang and killed Yancen's general Zhang Cheng.
On the second day of the first lunar month in the fourth year of spring, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the first day of February, Emperor Guangwu arrived in Huai County.
On the 21st, I returned to Luoyang from Huai County.
He sent the right general Deng Yu to lead two generals to fight Yancen in Wudang and defeated Yancen.
On the seventh day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Emperor Guangwu arrived at Yecheng.
On the 19th, we marched to Linping.
Wu Han, the commander-in-chief, was sent to attack the bandits of the Five Schools in Jishan, and the bandits were defeated.
In the fifth month, Emperor Guangwu marched to Yuanshi, and on the second day of the lunar month, he marched to Lunu.
He sent General Ji Zun and four generals to attack Zhang Feng in Zhuo County and killed Zhang Feng.
On the second day of June, Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang.
On July 14, Emperor Guangwu arrived in Qiao County.
He sent the captive general Ma Wu and the partial general Wang Ba to besiege Liu Yu in Chuihui.
Dong Xian's general Ben Xiu led the soldiers and horses of Lanling City to surrender to Guangwu, and Dong Xian besieged Ben Xiu.
Huya General Gai Yan led Pingdi General Pang Meng to rescue Ben Xiu, but failed. Lanling was captured by Dong Xian.
On the tenth day of the eighth lunar month in autumn, Emperor Guangwu arrived in Shouchun.
Xu Yun, a senior official in Taizhong, committed suicide without authorization, and Liu Du, the prefect of Linhuai, committed suicide. Xu Yun was punished for violating the law.
Yangwu general Ma Cheng was sent to lead three generals to attack Li Xian.
In September, Li Xian was surrounded in Shu County.
On the seventh day of the tenth lunar month in winter, Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang.
Taifu Zhuomao passed away.
On November 19, Emperor Guangwu arrived in Wancheng and sent Jianyi General Zhu You and two generals to besiege Qin Feng in Liqiu.
On December 20th, Emperor Guangwu arrived at Liqiu.
This year, Feng Yi, the general who conquered the west, fought with Cheng Yan, general Cheng Yan of Gongsun Shu, in Chencang and defeated Cheng Yan.
On the seventeenth day of the first month of the fifth year of spring, Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang.
On the first day of February, there is a general amnesty.
The captured general Ma Wu and the partial general Wang Ba captured Chuihui.
On the 20th, Emperor Guangwu arrived at Wei County.
On the 27th, Kong An, a descendant of the Yin Shang Dynasty, was granted the title of Duke Jia of Yin Shao.
Peng Chong was killed by his slaves, and Yuyang was pacified.
Grand Sima Wu Han led Jianwei General Geng Yan to attack Fuping in the plains, captured the bandits, defeated the bandits and forced them to surrender.
He also sent Geng Yan to lead two generals to attack Zhang Bu.
On the eighth day of March, King Liu Liang of Guangyang was transferred to King Zhao, and Liu Liang began to enter the feudal state.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
平狄将军庞萌反，杀楚郡太守孙萌而东附董宪。
遣征南大将军岑彭率二将军伐田戎于津乡，大破之。
夏四月，旱，蝗。
河西大将军窦融始遣使贡献。
五月丙子，诏曰： 久旱伤麦，秋种未下，朕甚忧之。
将残吏未胜，狱多冤结，元元愁恨，感动天气乎？
其令中都官、三辅、郡、国出系囚，罪非犯殊死一切勿案，见徒免为庶人。
务进柔良，退贪酷，各正厥事焉。
六月，建义大将军朱祐拔黎丘，获秦丰；而庞荫、苏茂围桃城。
帝时幸蒙，因自将征之。
先理兵任城，乃进救桃城，大破萌等。
秋七月丁丑，幸沛，祠高原庙。
诏修复西京园陵。
进幸湖陵，征董宪。又幸蕃，遂攻董宪于昌虑，大破之。
八月己酉，进幸郯，留吴汉攻刘纡、董宪等，车驾转徇彭城、下邳。
吴汉拔郯，获刘纡；汉进围董宪、庞萌于朐。
translation: 
General Pang Meng of Pingdi rebelled, killed Sun Meng, the prefect of Chu County, and attached himself to Dong Xian in the east.
Cen Peng, the general who conquered the south, led two generals to attack Tian Rong in Jin Township and defeated Tian Rong.
In April of summer, there was drought and locust plague.
Dou Rong, the general of Hexi Province, began to send people to pay tribute.
On the second day of the fifth lunar month, Emperor Guangwu issued an edict saying: "The long-lasting drought has damaged wheat, and no autumn sowing has been done. I am very worried."
Could it be that the cruel officials are incompetent, there are many unjust cases in prison, and the people are miserable and resentful, which has offended the gods?
We now order Zhongdu officials, third assistants, and prefectures to release prisoners in custody. Except for those who must be executed, they will be exempted from investigation and punishment, and their imprisonment will be exempted from civilians.
Be sure to hire gentle people, remove greedy and cruel people, and keep all departments in order.
In June, General Zhu You of Jianyi captured Liqiu and captured Qin Feng alive; Pang Meng and Su Mao besieged Taocheng.
At this time, Emperor Guangwu happened to arrive in Meng County, so he personally led troops to conquer Pang Meng and Su Mao.
First reorganize the army in Rencheng, then rescue Taocheng, and defeat Pang Meng and others.
On the fourth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, Emperor Guangwu went to Peixian County to offer sacrifices to Gaodi Temple.
An imperial edict was issued to restore the imperial tombs in Chang'an.
He marched to Huling and conquered Dong Xian, and then to Fan County and attacked Dong Xian in Changli and won a great victory.
On the sixth day of August, Emperor Guangwu marched to Tan County, leaving Wu Han behind to attack Liu Yu, Dong Xian and others. Emperor Guangwu then inspected Pengcheng and Xiapi.
Wu Han captured Tan County and captured Liu Yu; Wu Han then marched to Qu County and besieged Dong Xian and Pang Meng.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
冬十月，还，幸鲁，使大司空祠孔子。
耿弇等与张步战于临淄，大破之。
帝幸临淄，进幸剧。
张步斩苏茂以降，齐地平。
初起太学。
车驾还宫，幸太学，赐博士弟子各有差。
十一月壬寅，大司徒状湛免，尚书令侯霸为大司徒。
十二月，卢苏自称天子于九原。
西州大将军隗嚣遣子恂入侍。
交阯牧邓让率七郡太守遣使奉贡。
诏复济阳二年徭役。
是岁，野谷渐少，田亩益广焉。
translation: 
In the tenth month of winter, Emperor Guangwu passed by Lu on his way back to Luoyang. The great Sikong was sent to worship Confucius.
Geng Yan and others fought with Zhang Bu in Linzi and defeated Zhang Bu.
Emperor Guangwu arrived in Linzi and marched to Ju County.
Zhang Bu killed Su Mao and surrendered, and Qi was pacified.
Taixue was established.
Emperor Guangwu returned to Luoyang, inspected the Imperial Academy, and rewarded his Ph.D. disciples respectively.
On the first day of November, Grand Situ Fu Zhan was dismissed from his post and appointed Shangshu Ling Hou Ba as Grand Situ.
In December, Lu Fang proclaimed himself emperor in Jiuyuan.
General Kai Xiao of Xizhou sent his son Kai Xun to the palace to guard Emperor Guangwu.
Jiaozhi Mu Dengrang led the prefects of the seven counties to send people to Beijing to pay tribute.
The imperial edict exempted Jiyang County from corvee service for two years.
This year, the number of wild grains gradually decreased and more and more fields were cultivated.


