Chunk 0: 
original: 
大宛之迹，见自张骞。
张骞，汉中人。建元中为郎。
是时天子问匈奴降者，皆言匈奴破月氏王，以其头为饮器，月氏遁逃而常怨仇匈奴，无与共击之。
汉方欲事灭胡，闻此言，因欲通使。
道必更匈奴中，乃募能使者。
骞以郎应募，使月氏，与堂邑氏胡奴甘父俱出陇西。经匈奴，匈奴得之，传诣单于。
单于留之，曰： 月氏在吾北，汉何以得往使？
吾欲使越，汉肯听我乎？
留骞十馀岁，与妻，有子，然骞持汉节不失。
居匈奴中，益宽，骞因与其属亡乡月氏，西走数十日至大宛。
大宛闻汉之饶财，欲通不得，见骞，喜，问曰： 若欲何之？
骞曰： 为汉使月氏，而为匈奴所闭道。
今亡，唯王使人导送我。
诚得至，反汉，汉之赂遗王财物不可胜言。
大宛以为然，遣骞，为发导绎，抵康居，康居传致大月氏。
大月氏王已为胡所杀，立其太子为王。
既臣大夏而居，地肥饶，少寇，志安乐，又自以远汉，殊无报胡之心。
骞从月氏至大夏，竟不能得月氏要领。
留岁馀，还，并南山，欲从羌中归，复为匈奴所得。
留岁馀，单于死，左谷蠡王攻其太子自立，国内乱，骞与胡妻及堂邑父俱亡归汉。
汉拜骞为太中大夫，堂邑父为奉使君。
骞为人彊力，宽大信人，蛮夷爱之。
堂邑父故胡人，善射，穷急射禽兽给食。
初，骞行时百馀人，去十三岁，唯二人得还。
骞身所至者大宛、大月氏、大夏、康居，而传闻其旁大国五六，具为天子言之。曰：大宛在匈奴西南，在汉正西，去汉可万里。
translation: 
Dawan was discovered by Zhang Qian.
Zhang Qian was from Hanzhong and served as a Langguan during the Jianyuan reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
At this time, the emperor asked the surrendered Huns. They all said that the Huns attacked and defeated King Yuezhi and used his skull as a drinking vessel. The Yuezhi fled and often resented the Huns, but they had no friends to fight with them.
At this time, the Han Dynasty was about to attack the Xiongnu. After hearing these statements, it wanted to send an envoy to Yuezhi to contact them.
But to go to Yuezhi, you have to pass through the Xiongnu, so you recruited people who could be sent as envoys.
Zhang Qian responded to the call as a Langguan and was sent as an envoy to the Yuezhi. He left Longxi with a former Huns slave named Ganfu from Tangyi. When passing by the Huns, he was captured by the Huns and handed over to the Chanyu.
The Chanyu retained Zhang Qian and said, "The Yueshi are to the north of us. How can the Han Dynasty send envoys there?"
If we want to send an envoy to South Vietnam, will the Han Dynasty allow us?
He detained Zhang Qian for more than ten years, married him, and gave birth to children. However, Zhang Qian kept the talisman of the Han Dynasty envoy and did not lose it.
Zhang Qian stayed with the Xiongnu, and the Xiongnu's care for him gradually relaxed. As a result, Zhang Qian and his followers fled to the Yueshi, and ran westward for dozens of days until they arrived in Dawan.
Dawan heard that the Han Dynasty was rich in money and wanted to communicate with the Han Dynasty, but failed. Now that I saw Zhang Qian, I felt happy and asked Zhang Qian: "Where do you want to go?"
Zhang Qian said: I sent an envoy to the Yuezhi for the Han Dynasty, but the Huns blocked my way.
Now that we have escaped from the Huns, I hope the king will send someone to guide and escort us to Yuezhi.
If we can really reach Yuezhi, we can return to the Han Dynasty. The wealth that the Han Dynasty presented to the king cannot be described in words.
Dawan believed that Zhang Qian's words were true, so he asked Zhang Qian to set off and sent him a guide and translator to reach Kangju. Kangju transferred him to Dayuezhi again.
At this time, the king of Dayuezhi had been killed by the Xiongnu, and his prince was appointed king.
This king had conquered Bactria and settled here. The land here is fertile and fertile, and there are few enemies to invade it, so the mood is comfortable and happy. I also thought that I was far away from the Han Dynasty and had no intention of revenge against the Huns.
Zhang Qian arrived in Daxia from the Yueshi, but after all he did not get the clear attitude of the Yueshi towards uniting the Han to attack the Huns.
Zhang Qian lived in Yueshi for more than a year and returned home. He traveled along the Nanshan Mountains and wanted to return to Chang'an from where the Qiang people lived, but he was captured by the Huns again.
He lived with the Xiongnu for more than a year. When the Chanyu died, King Zuoguli of the Xiongnu attacked the prince and proclaimed himself the Chanyu. The country was in chaos. Zhang Qian took the opportunity to escape back to the Han Dynasty with his Hu wife and Tangyi father.
In the Han Dynasty, Zhang Qian was granted the title of Taizhong Dafu, and Tang Yifu was granted the title of Envoy Lord.
Zhang Qian was strong, powerful, broad-minded, honest and trustworthy, and all the barbarians liked him.
Tangyi's father was a Huns and was good at archery. Whenever he was in poverty and danger, he would shoot birds and animals for food.
Initially, Zhang Qian had more than a hundred followers when he was sent as an envoy. Thirteen years after leaving the Han Dynasty, only he and Gan Fu returned to the Han Dynasty.
Zhang Qian visited Dayuan, Dayuezhi, Daxia, and Kangju. Legend has it that there were five or six big countries next to these countries. He stated the situation to the Emperor of Han one by one, saying: Dayuan is southwest of the Xiongnu, due west of the Han Dynasty, about 10,000 miles away from the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
其俗土著，耕田，田稻麦。
有蒲陶酒。
多善马，马汗血，其先天马子也。
有城郭屋室。其属邑大小七十馀城，众可数十万。
其兵弓矛骑射。
其北则康居，西则大月氏，西南则大夏，东北则乌孙，东则扜鰛、于窴。
于窴之西，则水皆西流，注西海；其东水东流，注盐泽。
盐泽潜行地下，其南则河源出焉。
多玉石，河注中国。
而楼兰、姑师邑有城郭，临盐泽。
盐泽去长安可五千里。
匈奴右方居盐泽以东，至陇西长城，南接羌，鬲汉道焉。
乌孙在大宛东北可二千里，行国，随畜，与匈奴同俗。
控弦者数万，敢战。
故服匈奴，及盛，取其羁属，不肯往朝会焉。
康居在大宛西北可二千里，行国，与月氏大同俗。
控弦者八九万人。与大宛邻国。
国小，南羁事月氏，东羁事匈奴。
奄蔡在康居西北可二千里，行国，与康居大同俗。
控弦者十馀万。
临大泽，无崖，盖乃北海云。
大月氏在大宛西可二三千里，居妫水北。
其南则大夏，西则安息，北则康居。
行国也，随畜移徙，与匈奴同俗。
控弦者可一二十万。
故时彊，轻匈奴，及冒顿立，攻破月氏，至匈奴老上单于，杀月氏王，以其头为饮器。
始月氏居敦煌、祁连间，及为匈奴所败，乃远去，过宛，西击大夏而臣之，遂都妫水北，为王庭。
其馀小众不能去者，保南山羌，号小月氏。
安息在大月氏西可数千里。
translation: 
The local custom is to settle in one place, cultivate the fields, and grow rice and wheat.
Produces wine.
There are many good horses. The horses are sweating and bloody. Their ancestors are the sons of Tianma.
There are city walls and houses there, and there are more than 70 large and small towns under its jurisdiction, with about hundreds of thousands of people.
The weapons of Dawan are bows and spears, and people ride horses and shoot arrows.
It is bordered by Kangju in the north, Dayuezhi in the west, Daxia in the southwest, Wusun in the northeast, and Chugui and Yuzhi in the east.
To the west of Zhi, the rivers flow westward and flow into the West Sea. The rivers east of Yuzhi all flow eastward and flow into the salt lake.
The water in the salt lake flows secretly underground. To its south is the source of the Yellow River, from which the Yellow River water flows out.
Jade is abundant there, and water from the Yellow River flows into China.
The towns of Loulan and Gushi both have city walls, close to Yanze.
Yanze is about five thousand miles away from Chang'an.
The right side of the Xiongnu was east of Yanze, up to the Longxi Great Wall, and connected to the Qiang residential area in the south, blocking the road to the Han Dynasty.
Wusun is about 2,000 miles northeast of Dawan. It is a country where people do not settle in one place. People move around according to the needs of grazing, which is the same as the custom of the Xiongnu.
There are tens of thousands of soldiers who draw bows and fight, and they are brave and good at fighting.
They were originally subordinate to the Xiongnu, but when they became powerful, they took back the hostages who were bound to the Xiongnu and refused to worship the Xiongnu.
Kangju is about 2,000 miles northwest of Dawan. It is a country where people do not live in one place. The customs are mostly the same as those of the Yueshi.
There are 80,000 to 90,000 warriors who draw bows and fight, and they are neighboring countries with Dawan.
The country was small, so the south was forced to serve the Yuezhi, and the east was forced to serve the Xiongnu.
Amcai is about 2,000 miles northwest of Kangju. It is a country where people do not live in one place, and its customs are mostly the same as those of Kangju.
There are more than 100,000 warriors who draw bows and fight.
It is near a large swamp with no shore, probably the North Sea.
The Dayue clan is about two to three thousand miles west of Dayuan and north of the Guishui River.
It is bounded by Daxia in the south, Anxi in the west, and Kangju in the north.
It is a country where the people do not settle in one place. People move around according to the needs of grazing, which is the same as the custom of the Xiongnu.
There are one to two hundred thousand warriors who draw bows and fight.
When they were strong in the past, they despised the Xiongnu. When Maodun became the Chanyu, he defeated the Yuezhi. When the Xiongnu became the Chanyu, he killed the Yuezhi king and used the Yuezhi king's skull as a drinking vessel.
At first, the Yuezhi lived between Dunhuang and Qilian. When they were defeated by the Xiongnu, most of them left far away, passing through Dawan, and went west to attack Daxia, defeated it, and made them submit to the Yuezhi. Then they established their capital north of the Guishui River as the royal court.
The remaining small group of Yuezhi people who could not leave preserved Nanshan and the place where the Qiang people lived, and they were called Xiao Yuezhi people.
Rest in peace about a few thousand miles west of Dayuezhi.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
其俗土著，耕田，田稻麦，蒲陶酒。
城邑如大宛。
其属小大数百城，地方数千里，最为大国。
临妫水，有市，民商贾用车及船，行旁国或数千里。
以银为钱，钱如其王面，王死辄更钱，效王面焉。
画革旁行以为书记。
其西则条枝，北有奄蔡、黎轩。
条枝在安息西数千里，临西海。
暑湿。
耕田，田稻。
有大鸟，卵如甕。
人众甚多，往往有小君长，而安息役属之，以为外国。
国善眩。
安息长老传闻条枝有弱水、西王母，而未尝见。
大夏在大宛西南二千馀里妫水南。
其俗土著，有城屋，与大宛同俗。
无大长，往往城邑置小长。
其兵弱，畏战。
善贾市。
及大月氏西徙，攻败之，皆臣畜大夏。
大夏民多，可百馀万。
其都曰蓝市城，有市贩贾诸物。
其东南有身毒国。
骞曰： 臣在大夏时，见邛竹杖、蜀布。问曰： 安得此？
大夏国人曰： 吾贾人往市之身毒。
身毒在大夏东南可数千里。
其俗土著，大与大夏同，而卑湿暑热云。
其人民乘象以战。
其国临大水焉。
以骞度之，大夏去汉万二千里，居汉西南。
今身毒国又居大夏东南数千里，有蜀物，此其去蜀不远矣。
今使大夏，从羌中，险，羌人恶之；少北，则为匈奴所得；从蜀宜径，又无寇。
天子既闻大宛及大夏、安息之属皆大国，多奇物，土著，颇与中国同业，而兵弱，贵汉财物；其北有大月氏、康居之属，兵彊，可以赂遗设利朝也。
且诚得而以义属之，则广地万里，重九译，致殊俗，威德遍於四海。
translation: 
Their custom is to settle in one place, cultivate the fields, grow rice and wheat, and produce wine.
Its towns are like Dawan.
It has hundreds of towns and cities under its jurisdiction and a land area of ​​thousands of miles. It is the largest country.
There is a market near Guishui, and people use cars and ships to transport goods for business, sometimes to nearby countries or places thousands of miles away.
They used silver to make coins, and the coins were minted to resemble the king's appearance. When the king died, they changed the coins because they wanted to imitate the king's appearance.
They drew horizontal lines on the leather as text.
To the west is Tiaozhi, to the north are Yancai and Lixuan.
The branches are thousands of miles west of Parthia, near the Western Sea.
The weather there is hot and humid.
People tilled the fields and grew rice.
There arose a great bird whose eggs were as big as an urn.
With a large population, some places often had small princes, and Parthian servants governed them.
Think of it as a peripheral country.
The people of Tiaozhi are good at magic. The old people in Anxi said that there was Weushui and Queen Mother of the West in Tiaozhi State, but they had never seen them.
Daxia is located south of the Guishui River, more than 2,000 miles southwest of Dawan.
The local custom is that people settle in one place, with towns and houses. The custom is the same as that of Dawan.
There is no grand governor, instead each town has a small governor.
The country's military is weak and afraid of war.
People are good at doing business.
When the Da Yuezhi moved westward, they defeated Da Xia and ruled the entire Da Xia.
There are many people in Daxia, about one million.
Its capital is called Lanshi City. There is a trade market here. Sells various items.
There is a poisonous country in the southeast of Daxia.
Zhang Qian said: When I was in Daxia, I saw Qiong bamboo sticks and Shu cloth, so I asked them: Where did they get these things?
People from the Daxia Kingdom said: Our merchants bought it from the Shendu Kingdom.
Shendu Country is about several thousand miles southeast of Daxia.
The custom there is for people to settle in one place, which is roughly the same as in Daxia, but the terrain is low and humid and the weather is hot.
Its people fought on elephants.
It is near a flood.
I estimate that Daxia is twelve thousand miles away from the Han Dynasty and is in the southwest of the Han Dynasty.
Shendu Country is located thousands of miles southeast of Daxia and has products from Shu County, which means that it is not far from Shu County.
Nowadays, if an envoy is sent to Daxia, if he passes through the Qiang residential area, the terrain is dangerous and the Qiang people hate it; if he goes slightly north, he will be captured by the Huns. The road from Shu should be straight and free from intruders.
The emperor has heard that Dawan, Daxia, Anxi, etc. are all big countries that produce many strange things. The people live in one place and their lives are quite similar to those of the Han Dynasty. However, their armies are weak and they value the property of the Han Dynasty. There are countries such as Dayuezhi and Kangju in the north. Their armies are powerful, but you can use gifts and benefits to induce them to come to pay homage to the Emperor of Han.
And if we can really get them and make them our own with morality, then we can expand the territory of thousands of miles, and through many translations, attract people with different customs, so that the prestige and kindness of the emperor of the Han Dynasty can be spread all over the world.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
天子欣然，以骞言为然，乃令骞因蜀犍为发间使，四道并出：出駹，出厓，出徙，出邛、僰，皆各行一二千里。
其北方闭氐、筰，南方闭巂、昆明。
昆明之属无君长，善寇盗，辄杀略汉使，终莫得通。
然闻其西可千馀里有乘象国，名曰滇越，而蜀贾奸出物者或至焉，於是汉以求大夏道始通滇国。
初，汉欲通西南夷，费多，道不通，罢之。
及张骞言可以通大夏，乃复事西南夷。
骞以校尉从大将军击匈奴，知水草处，军得以不乏，乃封骞为博望侯。
是岁元朔六年也。
其明年，骞为卫尉，与李将军俱出右北平击匈奴。
匈奴围李将军，军失亡多；而骞後期当斩，赎为庶人。
是岁汉遣骠骑破匈奴西数万人，至祁连山。
其明年，浑邪王率其民降汉，而金城、河西西并南山至盐泽空无匈奴。
匈奴时有候者到，而希矣。
其後二年，汉击走单于於幕北。
是後天子数问骞大夏之属。
骞既失侯，因言曰： 臣居匈奴中，闻乌孙王号昆莫，昆莫之父，匈奴西边小国也。
匈奴攻杀其父，而昆莫生弃於野。
乌嗛肉蜚其上，狼往乳之。
单于怪以为神，而收长之。
及壮，使将兵，数有功，单于复以其父之民予昆莫，令长守於西。
昆莫收养其民，攻旁小邑，控弦数万，习攻战。
单于死，昆莫乃率其众远徙，中立，不肯朝会匈奴。
匈奴遣奇兵击，不胜，以为神而远之，因羁属之，不大攻。
今单于新困於汉，而故浑邪地空无人。
translation: 
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was happy and thought Zhang Qian's words were right, so he ordered Zhang Qian to send secret envoys from Shu County and Jianwei County to set off in four groups at the same time: one from Zhan, one from Ran, one from Qi, and one from Qionbo, each traveling one or two thousand miles.
As a result, the northern route was blocked by Di and Zuo, and the southern route was blocked by Xi and Kunming.
Countries like Kunming had no rulers and were good at robbing and stealing. They often killed and robbed the Han Dynasty envoys, but the Han Dynasty envoys failed to pass.
However, I heard that more than a thousand miles west of Kunming, there was a country called Dianyue where the people rode elephants. Some of the merchants from Shu County who smuggled goods out of the country had been there, so the Han Dynasty began to communicate with the Dian Kingdom because they wanted to find a way to Daxia.
At first, the Han Dynasty wanted to open up the southwestern barbarians, but it wasted a lot of money and the road was not opened, so they gave up.
When Zhang Qian said that it was possible to connect to Daxia from the southwestern barbarians, the Han Dynasty resumed the work of opening up the southwestern barbarians.
Zhang Qian followed the general Wei Qing to attack the Xiongnu as a captain. Because he knew where there were water and grass, the army could not be exhausted. The emperor named Zhang Qian the Marquis of Bowang.
This happened in the sixth year of Yuanshuo, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
The next year, Zhang Qian became a guard and set out from Youbeiping with General Li Guang to attack the Xiongnu.
The Xiongnu soldiers surrounded General Li. His army suffered many casualties. However, Zhang Qian was sentenced to death because he missed the agreed time. He spent money to atone for his sin and became a civilian.
In this year, the Han Dynasty sent Hussar General Huo Qubing to defeat tens of thousands of Huns in the west and came to the foot of the Qilian Mountains.
The next year, King Hunxie of the Xiongnu led his people to surrender to the Han Dynasty. From then on, there were no more Huns in the area from Jincheng, west of Hexi and Nanshan to Yanze.
The Huns sometimes sent scouts here, but this rarely happened.
For two full years after this, the Han Dynasty drove the Xiongnu Chanyu to the north of the desert.
After that, the emperor repeatedly asked Zhang Qian about the affairs of Daxia and other countries.
At this time, Zhang Qian had lost his marquis, so he said: When I was in the Xiongnu, I heard that King Wusun was called Kunmo. Kunmo's father was the king of a small country to the west of the Xiongnu.
The Xiongnu attacked and killed Kunmo's father, and Kunmo was abandoned in the wilderness after he was born.
Birds flew to him with meat in their mouths and fed him; wolves came and fed him.
The Chanyu felt strange and thought he was a god, so he took him in and let him grow up.
When he came of age, he was asked to lead troops in battles. After many meritorious service, the Shanyu gave him his father's people and ordered him to stay in the Western Regions for a long time.
Kunmo adopted his people and attacked nearby small towns. Gradually, he had tens of thousands of soldiers who could draw bows and fight, and they were familiar with the skills of offensive warfare.
After Shanyu's death, Kunmo led his people to move far away, maintaining their independence and refusing to worship the Huns.
The Xiongnu sent a commando to attack Kunmo, but failed to win. They believed that Kunmo was a god and stayed away from him. They restrained and controlled him instead of launching a major attack on him.
Now Shan Yugang was very tired after being beaten by the Han Dynasty, and the place controlled by King Hunxie was unguarded.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
蛮夷俗贪汉财物，今诚以此时而厚币赂乌孙，招以益东，居故浑邪之地，与汉结昆弟，其势宜听，听则是断匈奴右臂也。
既连乌孙，自其西大夏之属皆可招来而为外臣。
天子以为然，拜骞为中郎将，将三百人，马各二匹，牛羊以万数，赍金币帛直数千巨万，多持节副使，道可使，使遗之他旁国。
骞既至乌孙，乌孙王昆莫见汉使如单于礼，骞大惭，知蛮夷贪，乃曰： 天子致赐，王不拜则还赐。
昆莫起拜赐，其他如故。
骞谕使指曰： 乌孙能东居浑邪地，则汉遣翁主为昆莫夫人。
乌孙国分，王老，而远汉，未知其大小，素服属匈奴日久矣，且又近之，其大臣皆畏胡，不欲移徙，王不能专制。
骞不得其要领。
昆莫有十馀子，其中子曰大禄，彊，善将众，将众别居万馀骑。
大禄兄为太子，太子有子曰岑娶，而太子蚤死。
临死谓其父昆莫曰： 必以岑娶为太子，无令他人代之。
昆莫哀而许之，卒以岑娶为太子。
大禄怒其不得代太子也，乃收其诸昆弟，将其众畔，谋攻岑娶及昆莫。
昆莫老，常恐大禄杀岑娶，予岑娶万馀骑别居，而昆莫有万馀骑自备，国众分为三，而其大总取羁属昆莫，昆莫亦以此不敢专约於骞。
骞因分遣副使使大宛、康居、大月氏、大夏、安息、身毒、于窴、扜鰛及诸旁国。
乌孙发导译送骞还，骞与乌孙遣使数十人，马数十匹报谢，因令窥汉，知其广大。
骞还到，拜为大行，列於九卿。
岁馀，卒。
乌孙使既见汉人众富厚，归报其国，其国乃益重汉。
translation: 
The custom of the barbarians is to covet the property of the Han Dynasty. If Wusun can be gifted with rich property at this time to attract him to move eastward, live in the place formerly controlled by King Hunxie, and become brothers with the Han Dynasty, Kunmo should be able to accept it according to the situation. If he accepts this arrangement, then it will be like cutting off the right arm of the Huns.
After uniting Wusun, Daxia and other countries to its west can be recruited as foreign vassals.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty believed that Zhang Qian was right and appointed him as Zhonglang General. He led 300 people, each with two horses, tens of thousands of cattle and sheep, and carried money, cloth and silk worth tens of millions. He also appointed many deputy envoys holding talismans. If the road could be opened, he would send them to neighboring countries.
Zhang Qian had arrived at Wusun, and King Kunmo of Wusun received the envoys of the Han Dynasty with the same etiquette as he treated the Xiongnu Chanyu. Zhang Qian felt ashamed in his heart. He knew that the barbarians were greedy, so he said: The emperor gives gifts, and if the king does not thank him, the gifts will be returned.
Kunmo stood up, thanked him, accepted the gift, and continued to do other things as usual.
Zhang Qian explained the purpose of his mission to Kunmo and said: If Wusun can move eastward to King Hunxie's old land, then the Han Dynasty will send a daughter of a prince to marry Kunmo as his wife.
At this time, the Wusun Kingdom had been divided. The king was old and far away from the Han Dynasty. He did not know its size. It had been owned by the Xiongnu for a long time, and it was also close to the Xiongnu. The ministers were afraid of the Xiongnu and did not want to move. The king could not make the decision alone.
Therefore, Zhang Qian failed to get a clear attitude from King Wusun.
Kunmo had more than ten sons, one of whom was named Dalu. He was strong and good at leading troops. He led more than 10,000 cavalry and lived in another place.
Dalu's brother is the prince. The prince has a son named Cen Marry. The prince has died long ago.
When he was dying, he said to his father Kunmo: He must marry Cen as the prince and don't let anyone else take his place.
Kunmo sadly agreed to him, and finally let Cen marry and become the prince.
Da Lu was angry that he had failed to replace the prince, so he recruited his brothers and led his army to rebel, planning to attack Cen Maru and Kunmo.
Kunmo was old and often feared that Da Lu would kill Cen Marry, so he gave Cen Marry more than 10,000 cavalry and lived in another place.
And Kunmo himself has more than 10,000 cavalry for self-defense. In this way, the Wusun Kingdom was divided into three parts, but still generally belonged to Kunmo. Therefore, Kunmo did not dare to discuss this matter with Zhang Qian alone. Zhang Qian then assigned deputy envoys to Dayuan, Kangju, Dayuezhi, Daxia, Anxi, Shendu, Yutian, Chuyi and several nearby countries.
Wusun State sent a guide and translator to send Zhang Qian back to his country. Zhang Qian and the Wusun Kingdom sent dozens of envoys, bringing dozens of horses to return and thank the Emperor of Han. By the way, they allowed them to have a peek at the situation of the Han Dynasty and understand the vastness of the Han Dynasty.
Zhang Qian returned to the Han Dynasty and was appointed Daxing, ranking among the nine ministers.
More than a year later, he died.
Wusun's envoy had seen that the Han Dynasty had many people and rich property, so he went back and reported to the king. Wusun Kingdom paid more and more attention to the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
其後岁馀，骞所遣使通大夏之属者皆颇与其人俱来，於是西北国始通於汉矣。
然张骞凿空，其後使往者皆称博望侯，以为质於外国，外国由此信之。
自博望侯骞死後，匈奴闻汉通乌孙，怒，欲击之。
及汉使乌孙，若出其南，抵大宛、大月氏相属，乌孙乃恐，使使献马，原得尚汉女翁主为昆弟。
天子问群臣议计，皆曰 必先纳聘，然後乃遣女 。
初，天子发书易，云 神马当从西北来 。
得乌孙马好，名曰 天马 。
及得大宛汗血马，益壮，更名乌孙马曰 西极 ，名大宛马曰 天马 云。
而汉始筑令居以西，初置酒泉郡以通西北国。
因益发使抵安息、奄蔡、黎轩、条枝、身毒国。
而天子好宛马，使者相望於道。
诸使外国一辈大者数百，少者百馀人，人所赍操大放博望侯时。
其後益习而衰少焉。
汉率一岁中使多者十馀，少者五六辈，远者八九岁，近者数岁而反。
是时汉既灭越，而蜀、西南夷皆震，请吏入朝。
於是置益州、越巂、牂柯、沈黎、汶山郡，欲地接以前通大夏。
乃遣使柏始昌、吕越人等岁十馀辈，出此初郡抵大夏，皆复闭昆明，为所杀，夺币财，终莫能通至大夏焉。
於是汉发三辅罪人，因巴蜀士数万人，遣两将军郭昌、卫广等往击昆明之遮汉使者，斩首虏数万人而去。
其後遣使，昆明复为寇，竟莫能得通。
而北道酒泉抵大夏，使者既多，而外国益厌汉币，不贵其物。
自博望侯开外国道以尊贵，其後从吏卒皆争上书言外国奇怪利害，求使。
天子为其绝远，非人所乐往，听其言，予节，募吏民毋问所从来，为具备人众遣之，以广其道。
来还不能毋侵盗币物，及使失指，天子为其习之，辄覆案致重罪，以激怒令赎，复求使。
使端无穷，而轻犯法。
其吏卒亦辄复盛推外国所有，言大者予节，言小者为副，故妄言无行之徒皆争效之。
其使皆贫人子，私县官赍物，欲贱市以私其利外国。
外国亦厌汉使人人有言轻重，度汉兵远不能至，而禁其食物以苦汉使。
汉使乏绝积怨，至相攻击。
而楼兰、姑师小国耳，当空道，攻劫汉使王恢等尤甚。
而匈奴奇兵时时遮击使西国者。
使者争遍言外国灾害，皆有城邑，兵弱易击。
於是天子以故遣从骠侯破奴将属国骑及郡兵数万，至匈河水，欲以击胡，胡皆去。
其明年，击姑师，破奴与轻骑七百馀先至，虏楼兰王，遂破姑师。
因举兵威以困乌孙、大宛之属。
还，封破奴为浞野侯。
王恢数使，为楼兰所苦，言天子，天子发兵令恢佐破奴击破之，封恢为浩侯。
於是酒泉列亭鄣至玉门矣。
乌孙以千匹马聘汉女，汉遣宗室女江都翁主往妻乌孙，乌孙王昆莫以为右夫人。
匈奴亦遣女妻昆莫，昆莫以为左夫人。
昆莫曰 我老 ，乃令其孙岑娶妻翁主。
translation: 
More than a year later, most of the envoys sent by Zhang Qian to communicate with Daxia and other countries returned to the Han Dynasty together with the people from the countries they went to. As a result, the northwest countries began to have contacts with the Han Dynasty from this time on.
However, this kind of exchange was initiated by Zhang Qian, so in the future, envoys to various countries in the Western Regions were called Bowang Hou, in order to win the trust of foreign countries, and foreign countries also trusted Han Dynasty envoys.
After the death of Bowang Hou Zhang Qian, the Xiongnu heard that the Han Dynasty had contacts with Wusun, and they were very angry and wanted to attack Wusun.
When the Han Dynasty sent envoys to Wusun, and from the south to Dayuan and Dayuezhi, the envoys continued one after another. Wusun became frightened and sent envoys to offer horses to the Han Dynasty, hoping to marry the daughters of the Han Dynasty princes and become brothers with the Han Dynasty.
The emperor asked the officials for their opinions, and they all said: They must send betrothal gifts first, and then they can marry the daughters of the princes.
Finally, the emperor opened the "Book of Changes" for divination, and the book said: The divine horse will come from the northwest.
After getting Wusun's good horse, the emperor named the horse Tianma.
When the horses from Dawan became stronger and stronger, they renamed the Wusun horses to "Xiji" and the Dawan horses to "Tianma".
At this time, the Han Dynasty began to build the Great Wall pavilion west of Lingju, and initially established Jiuquan County to communicate with the northwest countries.
So additional envoys were sent to Anxi, Yancai, Lixuan, Tiaozhi, and Shendu countries.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty liked Dawan's horses, so there was an endless stream of envoys to Dawan.
The number of envoys sent to foreign countries ranged from several hundred to more than a hundred, and the things each person carried were roughly the same as those carried by Bowang Hou.
From then on, missions became commonplace. The number of people assigned decreased.
The Han Dynasty sent out envoys in roughly a year, sometimes more than ten batches, sometimes five or six batches. In places far away, it would take eight or nine years for the envoys to return; in places close, it would take a few years.
At this time, the Han Dynasty had already destroyed South Vietnam, and the Shu region and the southwestern Yi states were all frightened, and asked the Han Dynasty to appoint officials for them and to visit the emperor of Han Dynasty.
Therefore, the Han Dynasty set up counties such as Yizhou, Yueqi, Zangke, Shenli, and Wenshan, hoping to connect the land together and then lead to Daxia.
So within one year, the Han Dynasty sent more than ten groups of envoys, including Bai Shichang and Lu Yue, from these newly established counties to Daxia. However, they were blocked by Kunming. The envoys were killed, their money and materials were robbed, and they ultimately failed to reach Daxia.
So the Han Dynasty dispatched the sinners of the Sanfu, plus tens of thousands of warriors from Ba and Shu, and sent two generals, Guo Chang and Wei Guang, to attack those who blocked the Han Dynasty's envoys in Kunming. They killed and captured tens of thousands of people and then left.
After that, the Han Dynasty sent envoys, and Kunming carried out another robbery. In the end, they still failed to communicate with Daxia.
On the way to Daxia from the north through Jiuquan, there were already many envoys. Foreigners were more and more satisfied with the Han Dynasty's cloth and property, and no longer felt valuable about these things.
Since Bowang Hou gained honor and wealth for opening up the road to foreign countries, the officials and soldiers who followed the envoys all rushed to write letters stating the rare things, strange things and interests of foreign countries, and asked to serve as envoys.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty believed that foreign countries were very far away and not everyone was willing to go there, so he accepted their requests, granted talismans, recruited officials and people regardless of their origins, equipped them with personnel, and sent them on missions to expand the roads to communicate with foreign countries.
Those who returned from missions had to embezzle cloth and property, and deviate from the emperor's wishes. The emperor believed that they were familiar with the Western Regions and the work of the envoys, and often investigated their crimes deeply to anger them, and asked them to pay for their sins and ask to be envoys again.
Since then, there have been endless incidents of envoys, and they have easily broken the law.
The officials and soldiers often repeatedly praised foreign things. Those who spoke nonsense were awarded the title of official envoy, and those who were boastful and petty were appointed deputy envoys. Therefore, those who talked nonsense and had no virtue rushed to imitate them.
Those who sent envoys were the sons of poor people. They took the gifts given by the government to various countries in the Western Regions as their own, hoping to sell them at low prices and gain private profits in foreign countries.
Foreign countries also hated the Han Dynasty envoys because everything they said was untrue. They estimated that the Han Dynasty army was far away and could not reach them, so they cut off their food and made the Han Dynasty envoys suffer hardship.
The envoys of the Han Dynasty lived in poverty and were cut off from supplies. As a result, they developed grudges against the countries in the Western Regions and even attacked each other.
Loulan and Gushi were small countries located on strategic transportation routes, so they attacked the Han Dynasty envoy Wang Hui and others with great force.
The Huns' assault troops also frequently blocked and attacked Han Dynasty envoys who were envoys to the countries in the Western Regions.
The envoys rushed to talk at length about the dangers of foreign countries. Although there were towns in various countries, their armies were weak and easy to attack.
Therefore, the emperor sent his subordinate Zhao Ponu to lead tens of thousands of cavalry and soldiers from various counties to the Xiong River to attack the Huns, but the Huns all left.
The next year, when they attacked Gushi, Zhao Ponu and more than 700 light cavalry arrived first, captured King Loulan, and captured Gushi.
Taking advantage of the victory's military power, he besieged Wusun, Dayuan and other countries.
After returning to the Han Dynasty, Zhao Ponu was granted the title of Hou Yehou.
Wang Hui went on many missions and was made very miserable by Loulan. He told the emperor about this, and the emperor sent troops and ordered Wang Hui to assist Zhao Ponu to defeat the enemy, so he made Wang Hui a noble prince.
Therefore, the Han Dynasty built pavilions from Jiuquan to Yumen Pass.
King Wusun used a thousand horses to marry a girl from the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty sent the daughter of the royal family Liu Jian, King of Jiangdu, to marry King Wusun. King Kunmo of Wusun took her as his right wife.
The Huns also sent a princess to marry Kunmo, who regarded her as his left wife.
Kunmo said: I am old. He ordered his grandson Cen to marry the princess.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
乌孙多马，其富人至有四五千匹马。
初，汉使至安息，安息王令将二万骑迎於东界。
东界去王都数千里。
行比至，过数十城，人民相属甚多。
汉使还，而後发使随汉使来观汉广大，以大鸟卵及黎轩善眩人献于汉。
及宛西小国驩潜、大益，宛东姑师、扞鰛、苏薤之属，皆随汉使献见天子。
天子大悦。
而汉使穷河源，河源出于窴，其山多玉石，采来，天子案古图书，名河所出山曰昆仑云。
是时上方数巡狩海上，乃悉从外国客，大都多人则过之，散财帛以赏赐，厚具以饶给之，以览示汉富厚焉。
於是大觳抵，出奇戏诸怪物，多聚观者，行赏赐，酒池肉林，令外国客遍观仓库府藏之积，见汉之广大，倾骇之。
及加其眩者之工，而觳抵奇戏岁增变，甚盛益兴，自此始。
西北外国使，更来更去。
宛以西，皆自以远，尚骄恣晏然，未可诎以礼羁縻而使也。
自乌孙以西至安息，以近匈奴，匈奴困月氏也，匈奴使持单于一信，则国国传送食，不敢留苦；及至汉使，非出币帛不得食，不市畜不得骑用。
所以然者，远汉，而汉多财物，故必市乃得所欲，然以畏匈奴於汉使焉。
宛左右以蒲陶为酒，富人藏酒至万馀石，久者数十岁不败。
俗嗜酒，马嗜苜蓿。
汉使取其实来，於是天子始种苜蓿、蒲陶肥饶地。
及天马多，外国使来众，则离宫别观旁尽种蒲萄、苜蓿极望。
自大宛以西至安息，国虽颇异言，然大同俗，相知言。
其人皆深眼，多须珣，善市贾，争分铢。
俗贵女子，女子所言而丈夫乃决正。
其地皆无丝漆，不知铸钱器。
translation: 
Wusun is rich in horses, and the rich families have as many as four or five thousand horses.
Finally, when the Han Dynasty envoy arrived in Parthia, King Parthia ordered the relevant people to lead 20,000 cavalry to greet them on the eastern border.
The eastern border is thousands of miles away from the royal capital.
When you get to the king, you have to pass through dozens of towns, where the people are connected and the population is large.
When the envoys of the Han Dynasty returned, Parthia sent envoys to follow the Han envoys to observe the vastness of the Han Dynasty, and dedicated the big bird eggs and Li Xuan's magicians to the Han Dynasty.
As for the small countries of Huanqian and Dayi to the west of Dayuan, and the countries of Gushi, Chuyi, Su Xie and other countries to the east of Dayuan, they all came with the Han Dynasty envoys to pay tribute and pay homage to the emperor.
The emperor was very happy.
The envoys of the Han Dynasty tried their best to explore the source of the Yellow River. The source came from the country of Yu. The mountains there were rich in jade. The envoys collected it. The emperor studied it based on ancient books and named the mountain where the Yellow River originates as Kunlun Mountain.
At this time, the emperor was inspecting the seaside areas many times, and every time he asked foreign guests to follow him, and he had to pass through most crowded towns. He also distributed money to reward them and prepared generous gifts for them to show the wealth of the Han Dynasty.
So large-scale hornet's events were held, strange plays were performed, and many monsters were exhibited, attracting many people to watch. The emperor then gave rewards, gathered wine into a pool, hung meat into a forest, and allowed foreign guests to view the materials stored in warehouses everywhere to show the vastness of the Han Dynasty, making them overwhelmed with horror.
After the magic skills were added, the horns and spectacles changed into new tricks every year, and the prosperity of these skills began from this time.
Foreign envoys from the Western Regions kept coming and going.
However, the envoys from the countries west of Dawan felt that they were far away from the Han Dynasty. They were still proud, indulgent and comfortable. The Han Dynasty could not restrain them with courtesy and make them obediently obey the prince's orders.
From the west of Wusun to the Parthian countries, because they were close to the Xiongnu, the Yuezhi were in trouble. Therefore, when the Xiongnu envoys took a letter from Shan Yu, these countries took turns supplying them with food and did not dare to stop them and cause them suffering. As for the arrival of the Han Dynasty envoys, they would not be provided with food and drink if they did not bring out cloth and property, and they would not be able to get mounts if they did not buy livestock.
So this situation occurred because the Han Dynasty was far away. The Han Dynasty had money and things, so they had to buy to get what they wanted, but this was also because they feared the Huns' envoys more than the Han Dynasty's envoys.
Countries around Dawan all use Pu Tao to make wine. Rich people have more than 10,000 shi of wine in their collections, and it will last for decades without deterioration.
Local custom is to drink alcohol, and horses like to eat alfalfa.
The Han Dynasty envoys retrieved the seeds of Pu Tao and alfalfa, so the emperor began to plant Pu Tao and alfalfa on the fertile land.
With more Tianma and more foreign envoys coming, the Han Dynasty's palaces and gardens were planted with Pu Tao and alfalfa as far as the eye could see.
From the west of Dawan to Anxi, although the languages ​​​​of the countries are different, their customs are roughly the same, and they can understand each other.
The people there have sunken eyes, heavy beards, are good at business, and will argue over every penny.
The local custom respects women. When a woman speaks, her husband will resolutely comply and dare not violate it.
There is no silk or lacquer everywhere, and they don't know how to make money or utensils.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
及汉使亡卒降，教铸作他兵器。
得汉黄白金，辄以为器，不用为币。
而汉使者往既多，其少从率多进熟於天子，言曰： 宛有善马在贰师城，匿不肯与汉使。
天子既好宛马，闻之甘心，使壮士车令等持千金及金马以请宛王贰师城善马。
宛国饶汉物，相与谋曰： 汉去我远，而盐水中数败，出其北有胡寇，出其南乏水草。
又且往往而绝邑，乏食者多。
汉使数百人为辈来，而常乏食，死者过半，是安能致大军乎？
无柰我何。且贰师马，宛宝马也。
遂不肯予汉使。
汉使怒，妄言，椎金马而去。
宛贵人怒曰： 汉使至轻我！
遣汉使去，令其东边郁成遮攻杀汉使，取其财物。
於是天子大怒。诸尝使宛姚定汉等言宛兵弱，诚以汉兵不过三千人，彊弩射之，即尽虏破宛矣。
天子已尝使浞野侯攻楼兰，以七百骑先至，虏其王，以定汉等言为然，而欲侯宠姬李氏，拜李广利为贰师将军，发属国六千骑，及郡国恶少年数万人，以往伐宛。
期至贰师城取善马，故号 贰师将军 。
赵始成为军正，故浩侯王恢使导军，而李哆为校尉，制军事。
是岁太初元年也。
而关东蝗大起，蜚西至敦煌。
贰师将军军既西过盐水，当道小国恐，各坚城守，不肯给食。
攻之不能下。
下者得食，不下者数日则去。
translation: 
When the fugitive soldiers of the Han Dynasty envoys surrendered to them, they were taught to forge weapons and utensils.
When they got gold and silver from the Han Dynasty, they used it to make vessels, not coins.
More and more envoys from the Han Dynasty went to the Western Regions. Most of those who had been envoys since their youth reported to the emperor the situation they were familiar with, saying: "There is a good horse in Dayuan. In Ershi City, they hid it and refused to give it to the envoys of the Han Dynasty."
The emperor already liked Dawan's horses. When he heard the news, he felt very happy and sent his warriors Cha Ling and others with a thousand pieces of gold and golden horses to ask the king of Dawan to exchange for the fine horses from Ershi City.
Dawan already had many things from the Han Dynasty. King Wan and his ministers discussed with each other and said: The Han Dynasty is far away from us, and there are frequent deaths in our country through the salt lake. If you come from the north, there will be Xiongnu intrusion, and if you come from the south, there will be a lack of water and grass.
There are often no towns and food is scarce.
Envoys from the Han Dynasty came in groups of several hundred people each time, but often more than half of them died due to lack of food. How could they send a large army in such a situation?
There is nothing they can do to us, and besides, the second master’s horse is a BMW from Dawan.
He refused to give it to the envoys of the Han Dynasty.
The Han Dynasty envoy was angry and casually threatened to smash the golden horse and leave.
The noble officials of Dawan were angry and said: The envoys of the Han Dynasty underestimate us!
He sent the Han envoys away and ordered Yu Chengguo in the east to intercept and kill the Han envoys and seize their belongings.
So the emperor was furious. People who had sent envoys to Dayuan, such as Yao Dinghan and others, said that Dayuan's army was weak. If he could really lead less than three thousand Han Dynasty troops and shoot them with strong bows and crossbows, he could capture all their troops and defeat Dayuan.
Because the emperor once sent the Marquis of Zhaoye to attack Loulan, he led 700 cavalry to attack Loulan first and captured the king of Loulan. Therefore, the emperor believed that Yao Dinghan was right and wanted to make his favorite concubine Mrs. Li's family a marquis. Therefore, the emperor appointed Mrs. Li's brother Li Guangli as the general of the second division. He mobilized 6,000 cavalry from the vassal country and tens of thousands of irregular youths from various counties to attack Dawan.
The purpose was to go to Ershi City to retrieve good horses, so he was called "General Ershi".
Zhao Shicheng served as military commander, the former Haohou Wang Hui served as the army's guide, and Li Duo served as the captain, in charge of military matters.
This year is the first year of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
At this time, a serious locust plague occurred in Kanto, and the locusts flew to Dunhuang in the west.
General Ershi's army has already passed through the salt swamp in the west. The small countries they passed were afraid and each held their own castles and refused to provide food to the Han army.
The Han army attacked the city and was unable to capture it.
You have to capture the city to get food and drink. If you can't capture it, you have to leave within a few days.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
比至郁成，士至者不过数千，皆饥罢。
攻郁成，郁成大破之，所杀伤甚众。
贰师将军与哆、始成等计： 至郁成尚不能举，况至其王都乎？
引兵而还。往来二岁。
还至敦煌，士不过什一二。
使使上书言： 道远多乏食；且士卒不患战，患饥。
人少，不足以拔宛。
原且罢兵，益发而复往。
天子闻之，大怒，而使使遮玉门，曰军有敢入者辄斩之！
贰师恐，因留敦煌。
其夏，汉亡浞野之兵二万馀於匈奴。
公卿及议者皆原罢击宛军，专力攻胡。
天子已业诛宛，宛小国而不能下，则大夏之属轻汉，而宛善马绝不来，乌孙、仑头易苦汉使矣，为外国笑。
乃案言伐宛尤不便者邓光等，赦囚徒材官，益发恶少年及边骑，岁馀而出敦煌者六万人，负私从者不与。
牛十万，马三万馀匹，驴骡橐它以万数。
多赍粮，兵弩甚设，天下骚动，传相奉伐宛，凡五十馀校尉。
宛王城中无井，皆汲城外流水，於是乃遣水工徙其城下水空以空其城。
益发戍甲卒十八万，酒泉、张掖北，置居延、休屠以卫酒泉，而发天下七科適，及载Я给贰师。
转车人徒相连属至敦煌。
而拜习马者二人为执驱校尉，备破宛择取其善马云。
於是贰师後复行，兵多，而所至小国莫不迎，出食给军。
至仑头，仑头不下，攻数日，屠之。
自此而西，平行至宛城，汉兵到者三万人。
宛兵迎击汉兵，汉兵射败之，宛走入葆乘其城。
translation: 
When the Han army arrived at Yucheng, only a few thousand soldiers followed, and they were all hungry and tired.
They attacked Yu Cheng, and Yu Cheng defeated them. Many Han soldiers were killed and wounded.
General Ershi discussed with Li Duo, Zhao Shicheng and others and said: If we can't capture Yucheng, let alone the king's capital?
So he led his troops back and went back and forth for two years.
When they retreated to Dunhuang, only one-tenth of the remaining soldiers were left.
They sent envoys to report to the emperor: The road is far away and there is often a lack of food. Moreover, the soldiers are not afraid of fighting, but only worried about starvation.
There are few people, not enough to capture Dawan.
I hope to temporarily withdraw our troops. In the future, more troops will be sent to attack.
After hearing this, the emperor was furious and sent an envoy to stop them at Yumen Pass, saying that anyone in the army who dared to enter Yumen Pass would be beheaded.
General Ershi was afraid, so he stayed in Dunhuang.
In the summer of the second year of Taichu, the Han Dynasty lost more than 20,000 troops of the Hou Yehou to the Xiongnu.
The ministers and deliberation officials all hoped to stop the military campaign against Dawan and concentrate their efforts on attacking the Xiongnu.
The emperor has attacked Dayuan, but Wan is a small country but failed to capture it. Then Daxia and other countries will despise the Han Dynasty, and Dayuan's good horses will never be obtained. Wusun and Luntai will easily cause trouble to the Han Dynasty envoys and be laughed at by foreigners.
So they punished Deng Guang and others who said that the crusade against Dawan was particularly unfavorable, pardoned prisoners and brave soldiers who had committed crimes, and sent more young men with bad conduct and border cavalry. In more than a year, 60,000 soldiers set out from Dunhuang, not including those who brought their own food and clothing to join the war.
These soldiers carried 100,000 cattle, more than 30,000 horses, and countless donkeys, camels and other items.
They also brought a lot of food and all kinds of weapons. At that time, the whole country was in turmoil. According to legend, there were more than fifty captains who were ordered to conquer Dawan.
There were no wells in King Wan's city, so they had to draw water from outside the city into the city. The Han Dynasty army sent hydraulic workers to change the water channels in the city so that there was no water available in the city.
The Han Dynasty also sent an additional 180,000 armored soldiers to garrison north of Jiuquan and Zhangye, and set up two counties, Juyan and Xiutu, to protect Jiuquan. The Han Dynasty also dispatched seven types of criminals across the country to carry dry food to supply the generals of the second division.
There was an endless stream of people transporting supplies, all the way to Dunhuang.
He also appointed two people who were familiar with horses as driving captains, preparing to select the best horses from Dawan after conquering it.
So the General of the Second Division went on another expedition, leading a large number of soldiers. Every small country he went to welcomed him, and they all provided food to the Han army.
They arrived at Lundou Kingdom, which refused to surrender. They attacked for several days and bloodbathed the country.
We went west from Luntou and arrived at the royal city safely. The Han army arrived with 30,000 people.
The Wan army attacked the Han army, and the Han army defeated the Wan army with arrows. The Wan army retreated into the city and guarded it against the city wall.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
贰师兵欲行攻郁成，恐留行而令宛益生诈，乃先至宛，决其水源，移之，则宛固已忧困。
围其城，攻之四十馀日，其外城坏，虏宛贵人勇将煎靡。
宛大恐，走入中城。
宛贵人相与谋曰： 汉所为攻宛，以王毋寡匿善马而杀汉使。
今杀王毋寡而出善马，汉兵宜解；即不解，乃力战而死，未晚也。
宛贵人皆以为然，共杀其王毋寡，持其头遣贵人使贰师，约曰： 汉毋攻我。我尽出善马，恣所取，而给汉军食。
即不听，我尽杀善马，而康居之救且至。
至，我居内，康居居外，与汉军战。
汉军熟计之，何从？
是时康居候视汉兵，汉兵尚盛，不敢进。
贰师与赵始成、李哆等计： 闻宛城中新得秦人，知穿井，而其内食尚多。
所为来，诛首恶者毋寡。
毋寡头已至，如此而不许解兵，则坚守，而康居候汉罢而来救宛，破汉军必矣。
军吏皆以为然，许宛之约。
宛乃出其善马，令汉自择之，而多出食食给汉军。
汉军取其善马数十匹。中马以下牡牝三千馀匹，而立宛贵人之故待遇汉使善者名昧蔡以为宛王，与盟而罢兵。
终不得入中城。
乃罢而引归。初，贰师起敦煌西，以为人多，道上国不能食，乃分为数军，从南北道。
校尉王申生、故鸿胪壶充国等千馀人，别到郁成。
郁成城守，不肯给食其军。
translation: 
General Ershi's soldiers were about to attack Yucheng, but fearing that they would be delayed and make Dawan do more deceitful things, they attacked Dawan City first, cut off its water source, and changed its water channels. Then Dawan was already deeply worried and in danger.
The Han army surrounded Dawan City and attacked it for more than forty days. The outer city was destroyed and the brave general Jian Mi among the Dawan nobles was captured.
The people of Dawan were very frightened and ran into the city.
The senior officials of Dayuan discussed with each other and said: The reason why the Han Dynasty attacked Dayuan was because King Wuwu of Dayuan hid good horses and killed the Han Dynasty envoy.
Now, if King Wuwu of Wan is killed and a good horse is sacrificed, the Han army will probably break the siege and leave. If not, it will not be too late to fight hard and die.
The high-ranking officials of Dayuan all believed that this was correct, so they jointly killed King Wan Wuwu and sent nobles to take Wuwi's head to see the general of the second division. They made an appointment with him and said: The Han army should not attack us. We will hand over all the good horses for you to choose and provide food and drink for the Han army.
If you do not accept our request, we will kill all the good horses, and reinforcements from Kangju will also arrive.
If their army arrives, our army will be in the city and Kang Ju's army will be outside the city, fighting with the Han soldiers.
I hope the Han army will carefully consider where to go?
At this time, Kang Ju's scouts were peeking at the situation of the Han army. Because the Han army was still strong, they did not dare to attack.
General Li Guangli of the Second Division discussed with Zhao Shicheng, Li Duo and others: I heard that a Han man has recently been found in Dawan City. This man is familiar with well-drilling technology, and there is quite a lot of food in the city.
The purpose of our coming here is to kill Wuwu, the culprit.
Wuwu's troops have been obtained, but they do not agree to their request to relieve the siege and withdraw their troops, then they will resolutely hold on, and Kangju's army will come to rescue Dawan when they see that the Han army is tired, and they will definitely defeat the Han army.
The officers all thought it was right and agreed to Dawan's request.
Dayuan Cai donated their good horses to let the Han army choose, and also provided a lot of grain to the Han army.
The Han army selected dozens of their good horses, as well as more than 3,000 stallions and mares of average and below average, and appointed Mocai, one of the Dawan nobles who had treated the Han envoys well in the past, as the king of Dawan. They made an alliance with them and withdrew their troops.
The Han army never entered Dayuan City, so they withdrew and returned to the Han Dynasty.
Initially, the general of the Second Division set out from the west of Dunhuang. He thought that because of the large number of people, the countries he passed through were unable to provide food, so he divided the army into several groups and advanced from the south and north.
School captain Wang Shensheng, Yuan Honglu Hu Chongguo and others led more than a thousand people to reach Yucheng from another road.
Yu Chengcheng insisted on defending the city and refused to supply food to the Han army.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
王申生去大军二百里，而轻之，责郁成。郁成食不肯出，窥知申生军日少，晨用三千人攻，戮杀申生等，军破，数人脱亡，走贰师。
贰师令搜粟都尉上官桀往攻破郁成。
郁成王亡走康居，桀追至康居。
康居闻汉已破宛，乃出郁成王予桀，桀令四骑士缚守诣大将军。
四人相谓曰： 郁成王汉国所毒，今生将去，卒失大事。
欲杀，莫敢先击。
上邽骑士赵弟最少，拔剑击之，斩郁成王，赍头。
弟、桀等逐及大将军。
初，贰师後行，天子使使告乌孙，大发兵并力击宛。
乌孙发二千骑往，持两端，不肯前。
贰师将军之东，诸所过小国闻宛破，皆使其子弟从军入献，见天子，因以为质焉。
贰师之伐宛也，而军正赵始成力战，功最多；及上官桀敢深入，李哆为谋计，军入玉门者万馀人，军马千馀匹。
贰师後行，军非乏食，战死不能多，而将吏贪，多不爱士卒，侵牟之，以此物故众。
天子为万里而伐宛，不录过，封广利为海西侯。
又封身斩郁成王者骑士赵弟为新畤侯。军正赵始成为光禄大夫，上官桀为少府，李哆为上党太守。
军官吏为九卿者三人，诸侯相、郡守、二千石者百馀人，千石以下千馀人。
奋行者官过其望，以適过行者皆绌其劳。
士卒赐直四万金。
伐宛再反，凡四岁而得罢焉。
汉已伐宛，立昧蔡为橡王而去＃岁馀，宛贵人以为昧蔡善谀，使我国遇屠，乃相与杀昧蔡，立毋寡昆弟曰蝉封为宛王，而遣其子入质於汉。
汉因使使赂赐以镇抚之。
而汉发使十馀辈至宛西诸外国，求奇物，因风览以伐宛之威德。
translation: 
Wang Shensheng left the army two hundred miles away. He thought he had something to rely on and despised Yu Cheng. He asked for food from Yu Cheng, but Yu Cheng refused to give it. He peeped at the Han army and knew that Wang Shensheng's army was decreasing day by day. One morning, he attacked Wang Shensheng's army with 3,000 people and killed Wang Shensheng and others. The army was destroyed. Only a few people escaped and ran back to the general of the Second Division.
The general of the Second Division ordered Shangguan Jie, the captain of Sosu, to attack Yu Cheng.
King Yucheng fled to Kangju, and Shangguan Jie pursued him there.
When Kang Ju heard that the Han army had captured Dayuan, he dedicated King Yu Cheng to Shangguan Jie. Shangguan Jie ordered four cavalry to tie up King Yu Cheng and escort him to the general of the Second Division.
The four cavalrymen discussed with each other and said: King Yu Cheng is a person hated by the Han Dynasty. If he is sent alive now, a sudden accident will be a big deal.
They wanted to kill him, but no one dared to do it first.
Zhao Di, the youngest knight from Shanggui, pulled out his sword and chopped it off, killed King Yu Cheng and took his head with him.
Zhao Di, Shangguan Jie and others caught up with Li Guangli, the general of the Second Division.
At first, the general of the Second Division sent troops for the last time, and the emperor sent an envoy to tell Wusun, asking them to send more troops to jointly attack Dawan with the Han army.
Wusun dispatched 2,000 cavalry to Dawan, but they adopted a fence-sitting attitude and waited and watched.
The general of the Second Division returned eastward victoriously. When the small countries he passed heard that Dawan had been defeated, they all sent their sons to accompany the Han army to pay tribute to the Han Dynasty, pay homage to the emperor, and stay in the Han Dynasty as hostages.
The general of the Second Division attacked Dayuan, and Zhao Shicheng, who was in charge of the army, fought hard and made the greatest contribution; Shangguan Jie bravely led his troops deep into the army, and Li Duo was able to make suggestions, and the army returned to Yumen Pass with more than 10,000 people and more than 1,000 horses.
The last time the general of the Second Division sent out troops, the army was not short of food, and the casualties were not too many. However, his generals were corrupt, most of them did not love the soldiers, and robbed them of food and wages, so many people died.
Because they traveled thousands of miles to conquer Dawan and did not remember their mistakes, the emperor made Li Guangli the Marquis of Haixi.
He also named Zhao Di, the knight who personally killed King Yu Cheng, as the new Marquis of Qi, Zhao Shi, the military commander, became the Guanglu doctor, Shangguan Jie as the Shaofu, and Li Duo as the Shangdang prefect.
Among the officers, three were promoted to the rank of Jiuqing, more than 100 were promoted to ministers, governors, and officials at the level of 2,000 stone, and more than 1,000 were promoted to officials below the level of 1,000 stone.
Those who volunteered to join the army received military positions beyond their expectations, and those who joined the army due to punishment were exempted from crime and did not take credit.
The rewards given to soldiers were worth forty thousand gold.
Two campaigns against Dawan took a total of four years to end the military campaign.
After the Han Dynasty conquered Dayuan, he established Mo Cai as King of Dayuan and withdrew. After more than a year, the senior officials of Dayuan believed that Mecai was good at flattery, which led to the killing of Dayuan, so they conspired with each other to kill Mecai, made Wuwi's brother named Chanfeng the king of Dayuan, and sent his son to the Han Dynasty as a hostage.
The Han Dynasty also sent envoys to give gifts to Dawan to appease it.
Later, the Han Dynasty sent more than ten groups of envoys to some countries to the west of Dayuan to search for strange things, and also to inform and inspect the power and merits of the expedition against Dayuan.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
而敦煌置酒泉都尉；西至盐水，往往有亭。
而仑头有田卒数百人，因置使者护田积粟，以给使外国者。
太史公曰：禹本纪言 河出昆仑。
昆仑其高二千五百馀里，日月所相避隐为光明也。
其上有醴泉、瑶池 。
今自张骞使大夏之後也，穷河源，恶睹本纪所谓昆仑者乎？
故言九州山川，尚书近之矣。
至禹本纪、山海经所有怪物，余不敢言之也。
translation: 
Dunhuang and Jiuquan have since set up captains, and all the way to Yanshui in the west, there are often pavilions on the road.
There were hundreds of soldiers stationed in Lundou, so the Han Dynasty set up envoys there to protect the fields and accumulate grain to supply envoys on their missions to foreign countries.
Tai Shigong said: "The Benji of Yu" says: The Yellow River originates from Kunlun.
Kunlun is more than 2,500 miles high. It is the place where the sun and the moon hide from each other and emit their own light.
Above Kunlun there are Liquan and Yaochi.
Now that Zhang Qian was sent to Daxia as an envoy, he finally found the source of the Yellow River. Where can we see the Kunlun Mountains mentioned in "The Book of Yu"?
So when talking about the mountains and rivers of Kyushu, what "Shang Shu" says is closest to the actual situation.
As for the monsters recorded in "Yu Benji" and "Shan Hai Jing", I dare not say.


