Chunk 0: 
original: 
扬雄字子云，蜀郡成都人也。
其先出自有周伯侨者，以支庶初食采于晋之扬，因氏焉，不知伯侨周何别也。
扬在河、汾之间，周衰而扬氏或称侯，号曰扬侯。
会晋六卿争权、韩、魏、赵兴而范中行、知伯弊。
当是时，逼扬侯，扬侯逃于楚巫山，因家焉。
楚汉之兴也，扬氏溯江上，处巴江州。
而扬季官至庐江太守。
汉元鼎间避仇复溯江上，处岷山之阳曰郫，有田一廛，有宅一区，世世以农桑为业。
自季至雄，五世而传一子，故雄亡它扬于蜀。
雄少而好学，不为章句，训诂通而已，博览无所不见。
为人简易佚荡，口吃不能剧谈，默而好深湛之思，清静亡为，少耆欲，不汲汲于富贵，不戚戚于贫贱，不修廉隅以徼名当世。
家产不过十金，乏无儋石之储，晏如也。
translation: 
Yang Xiong, courtesy name Ziyun, was from Chengdu, Shu County.
His ancestors were descendants of Zhou Boqiao. As a side branch of the common people, they took Yang of Jin as their food town and took it as their surname. It is not known which branch of Zhou Boqiao belonged to.
Yang is located between He and Fen. After the decline of Zhou Dynasty, some people in the Yang family were called marquises and were known as Yanghou.
When the six ministers of the Jin Dynasty struggled for power, Han, Wei, and Zhao rose, while Fan, Zhongxing, and Zhibo declined.
At this time, Yang Hou was forced to flee to Chuwu Mountain and settled there.
When the Chu and Han Dynasties arose, the Yang family traveled up the river and lived in Bajiang Prefecture.
Yang Jiguan became the prefect of Lujiang.
In the Dingjian of Han Dynasty, he avoided his enemies and went upriver. He lived in Pi, south of Mount Laoshan, where he had a farm and a house. He had been farming and raising silkworms for generations.
From Ji to Xiong, there was only one son in the Five Dynasties, so Yang Xiong had no other Yang clan in Shu.
Yang Xiong was eager to learn when he was a child. He did not study chapters and sentences. He only knew the explanations of words. He was well-read and read everything.
He is easy-going and tolerant, stutters and cannot speak quickly, is silent and contemplative, is quiet and inactive, has no hobbies and desires, does not pursue wealth, does not worry about poverty, and does not deliberately cultivate his character to gain fame in the world.
The family property does not exceed ten pieces of gold, and he is so poor that he does not have a stone to spare, but he is very safe.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
自有下度：非圣哲之书不好也；非其意，虽富贵不事也。
顾尝好辞赋。
先是时，蜀有司马相如，作赋甚弘丽温雅，雄心壮之，每作赋，常拟之以为式。
又怪屈原文过相如，至不容，作《离骚》，自投江而死，悲其文，读之未尝不流涕也。
以为君子得时则大行，不得时则龙蛇，遇不遇命也，何必湛身哉！
乃作书，往往摭《离骚》文而反之，自岷山投诸江流以吊屈原，名曰《反离骚》；又旁《离骚》作重一篇，名曰《广骚》；又旁《惜诵》以下至《怀沙》一卷，名曰《畔牢愁》。
《畔牢愁》、《广骚》文多，不载，独载《反离骚》，其辞曰：
有周氏之蝉嫣兮，或鼻祖于汾隅，灵宗初谍伯侨兮，流于末之扬侯。
淑周楚之丰烈兮，超既离乎皇波，因江潭而氵往托兮，钦吊楚之湘累。惟天轨之不辟兮，何纯洁而离纷！
纷累以其淟涊兮，暗累以其缤纷。汉十世之阳朔兮，招摇纪于周正，正皇天之清则兮，度后土之方贞。
translation: 
If you have a broad mind, you won't like the books of sages; if they don't suit your own needs, you won't do them even if you can get rich and powerful.
But I like Ci Fu very much.
Previously, there was Sima Xiangru in Shu, and his poems were magnificent and elegant. Yang Zhongzhi admired him, and often used him as an example to imitate every time he wrote poems.
I was also surprised that Qu Yuan's writing was more talented than Xiangru, but he was not accepted. He wrote "Li Sao" and threw himself into the river to die. I felt sad for his article, and everyone read it without crying.
I believe that a gentleman can accomplish much when the times are going well, but when the times are not going well, he is just like a dragon and a snake dormant, and whether the opportunities are good or not depends on his destiny, so why bother throwing yourself into the water!
So he wrote an article, often excerpting sentences from "Li Sao" to refute it, and threw himself from Shushan into the river to mourn Qu Yuan, which was called "Reverse Lisao";
There are many texts in "Ban Lao Chou" and "Guang Sao" that do not record it. They only record "Anti Lisao", which says:
It is related to the Zhou family, which originated from Fenpan. The descendants of the gods began to write genealogies from Boqiao and developed to the last generation of Yanghou.
After experiencing the great turbulence of the river, he received the beauty of Zhou and Chu. He dropped memorials along the riverside to mourn the innocent dead ministers of Chu and Xiang. The road to heaven is impassable, so why are the innocent beings in trouble?
Dirty and unclear things are mixed and confused. In the tenth generation of the Han Dynasty, Yangshuo was reached, and the time of the swagger was the first month of Zhou Dynasty, which was based on the Qingming Festival of the emperor and the Zhouzheng of the earth.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
图累承彼洪族兮，又览累之昌辞，带钩矩而佩衡兮，履欃枪以为綦。
素初贮厥丽服兮，何文肆而质！
资娵、娃炎珍髢兮，鬻九戎而索赖。
凤皇翔于蓬陼兮，岂驾鹅之能捷！
骋骅骝以曲艰兮，驴骡连蹇而齐足。
枳棘之榛榛兮，蝯虫穴拟而不敢下，灵修既信椒、兰之唼佞兮，吾累忽焉而不蚤睹？衿芰茄之绿衣兮，被夫容之朱裳，芳酷烈而莫闻兮，不如襞而幽之离房。
闺中容竞淖约兮，相态以丽佳，知众嫭之嫉妒兮，何必扬累之蛾眉？
懿神龙之渊潜，俟庆云而将举，亡春风之被离兮，孰焉知龙之所处？
愍吾累之众芬兮，扬烨烨之芳苓，遭季夏之凝霜兮，庆夭悴而丧荣。
横江、湘以南氵往兮，云走乎彼苍吾，驰江潭之泛溢兮，将折衷乎重华。
舒中情之烦或兮，恐重华之不累与，陵阳侯之素波兮，岂吾累之独见许？
translation: 
After thinking that you are a noble, I also see your beautiful words, wearing rules and scales, and walking in the footsteps of the demon star.
She usually wears beautiful clothes, but why is her literary talent so narrow-minded?
She had Kunwa's beautiful hair, but she sold it to Jiurong for profit.
The phoenix is ​​flying on the wall, but it can't be caught by a goose!
Yiliu ran through twists and turns and had difficulty keeping up with the donkeys and mules.
Zhijiji is dirty and messy, and Yuan Hang is too worried to go down. Since King Chu believed Tan and Yan’s slander, why didn’t you notice it earlier? Wearing green clothes of lettuce and red clothes of hibiscus, the fragrance is so strong that no one can find it in this world, so it is better to fold it up and put it in another room.
The women compete with each other with their graceful looks, competing with each other in beauty. You know how jealous the beauties are, why do you frown?
The beautiful dragon lurks in the abyss, waiting for the clouds to rise and take off. Without the spring breeze, who knows where the dragon is?
It's a pity that your fragrant fragrance, the fragrant lings that floated in full bloom, were hit by the cold frost of the summer, died young and lost their beauty.
Cross the Hengjiang and Xiangjiang rivers and go south to Cangwu, riding the waves of Liaotan to seek justice from Chonghua.
Telling the troubles in my heart, I am afraid that Chonghua will not turn to you. If I ride on the white waves of Yanghou, will I only praise you?


Chunk 3: 
original: 
精琼靡与秋菊兮，将以延夫天年；临汩罗而自陨兮，恐日薄于西山。解扶桑之总辔兮，纵令之遂奔驰，鸾皇腾而不属兮，岂独飞廉与云师！
卷薜芷与若蕙兮，临湘渊而投之；棍申椒与菌桂兮，赴江湖而沤之。费椒稰以要神兮，又勤索彼琼茅，违灵氛而不从兮，反湛身于江皋！
累既攀夫傅说兮，奚不信而遂行？
徒恐鷤䳏之将鸣兮，顾先百草为不芳！
初累弃彼虙妃兮，更思瑶台之逸女，抨雄鸩以作媒兮，何百离而曾不一耦！
乘云蜺之旖柅兮，望昆仑以樛流，览四荒而顾怀兮，奚必云女彼高丘？
既亡鸾车之幽蔼兮，驾八龙之委蛇？临江濒而掩涕兮，何有《九招》与《九歌》？
夫圣哲之遭兮，固时命之所有；虽增欷以于邑兮，吾恐灵修之不累改。
昔仲尼之去鲁兮，婓々迟迟而周迈，终回复于旧都兮，何必湘渊与涛濑！
混渔父之餔歠兮，洁沐浴之振衣，弃由、聃之所珍兮，庶彭咸之所遗！
孝成帝时，客有荐雄文似相如者，上方郊祠甘泉泰畤、汾阴后土，以求继嗣，召雄待诏承明之庭。
正月，从上甘泉，还奏《甘泉赋》以风。
translation: 
Jingqiongmi and Qiuju should be used to enjoy life for a long time. They will sink themselves in the face of difficulties and are afraid of the sunset. Untie the bridle of Fusang's car and let it run wildly. Even Luanhuang's soaring speed can't keep up. It's not just Yingqing and Nuomian!
Roll up the rhizome and ruohui and throw them into the bottom of Hunan; a lot of pepper and fungus are drowned in the rivers and lakes. He used pepper paste to pray to the gods, and found a lot of Qiongmao. He did not listen to the spirit's divination, but he drowned by the river!
Since you admire what Fu said, why don't you really put it into practice?
It is in vain to worry that the doves will crow, but there will be no fragrance before the herbs!
It turns out that you abandoned your virgin concubine, and you wanted the beauties from Yaotai, so you asked the male concubine to be your matchmaker. Why did you leave so many times and not even one was worthy of you?
Riding on the beautiful clouds, traveling around Kenhe, looking around and feeling sentimental, why do you have to be an official in Gaoqiu?
If you don't have a magnificent chariot, how can you drive the eight dragons? Wiping tears by the riverside, how can there be "Nine Moves" and "Nine Songs"?
What happened to the sage was a matter of time and fate. Even though you often lament, I am afraid that your spiritual practice will not change because of you.
Once upon a time, Zhongni left Lu and traveled around, and finally returned to his old country. Why would he have to join the rapids at the bottom of Hunan!
Thinking that the fisherman was polluted by eating bad food and drinking pickled food, he shook off his clothes after taking a bath to be pure and pure, throwing away what was cherished by his pride and pride, and made the same mistake as Peng Xian!
When Xiao became emperor, a retainer recommended Yang Xiong's article as Dan Ying. The emperor spent three hours cultivating the ancestral temple in the outskirts of the city, and came to ask for an heir. He summoned Yang Xiong to wait for the imperial edict in Cheng Long's court.
In the first month of the first lunar month, he went up to Juxing and came back to play "Ode to Sweet Springs" as a satirical remonstrance.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
其辞曰：
惟汉十世，将郊上玄，定泰畤，雍神休，尊明号，同符三皇，录功五帝，恤胤锡羡，拓迹开统。
于是乃命群僚，历吉日，协灵辰，星陈而天行。
诏招摇与泰阴兮，伏钩陈使当兵，属堪舆以壁垒兮，梢䕫魖而抶獝狂。
八神奔而警跸兮，振殷辚而军装，蚩尤之伦带干将而秉玉戚兮，飞蒙茸而走陆梁。
齐总总撙撙，其相胶葛兮，猋骇云讯，奋以方攘；骈罗列布，鳞以杂沓兮，柴虒参差，鱼颉而鸟目行；翕赫曶霍，雾集蒙合兮，半散照烂，粲以成章。于是乘舆乃登夫凤皇兮翳华芝，驷苍螭兮六素虯，蠖略蕤绥，漓乎幓纚。
帅尔阴闭，霅然阳开，腾清霄而轶浮景兮，夫何旟旐郅偈之旖柅也！
流星旄以电烛兮，咸翠盖而鸾旗。
敦万骑于中营兮，方玉车之千乘。
声駍隐以陆离兮，轻先疾雷而馺遗风。
translation: 
The words said:
When selecting the tenth generation, one should worship Shangxuan in the suburbs, offer sacrifices to Sanmu, seek blessings from gods, honor the name, be in harmony with the three emperors, imitate the five emperors, worry about future generations, bless them, and open up the line of succession.
So he ordered all the officials to choose the auspicious and favorable timing, just like the distribution and movement of the stars in the sky.
He ordered Zhao Yao and Tai Yin, and asked Gou Chen to lead his troops, connecting heaven and earth as a barrier to attack Kui Jie and You Kuang.
The eight gods were running back and forth, their military uniforms were magnificent; Chiyou's men, with their generals and their jade relatives, ran away in a messy manner.
They all gathered together and ran wildly, but scattered halfway; they were intertwined and arranged like fish scales, jagged and jagged, flipping up and down like fish and birds; they opened and closed like mist, gathered and dispersed, and the light was scattered and brilliant. So the chariot was decorated with phoenixes, covered with huazhi, four green chili and six plain qiu. The qiu flew vigorously, and the car was beautifully decorated.
The yin and yang open and close, gather and disperse, rise in the clear sky and cross the floating shadows, how prosperous the flags stand! The decorations are like meteors and electric candles, and they are all Cuigai Luan flags.
Tens of thousands of horses gathered in the camp, and thousands of jade chariots were lined up.
The roar of the car was uneven, and the light car was faster than the thundering wind. The heights are uneven, the twists and turns are clear.
Climb the rafters to the Tianmen, and gallop through the Tianmen to the cold place.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
陵高衍之嵱嵸兮，超纡谲之清澄。
登椽栾而羾天门兮，驰阊阖而入凌兢。
是时未辏夫甘泉也，乃望通天之绎绎。
正浏滥以弘惝兮，指东西之漫漫，徒回回以徨徨兮，魂固眇眇而昏乱。
据軨轩而周流兮，忽车夹轧而亡垠。翠玉树之青葱兮，壁马犀之瞵㻞。
金人仡仡其承钟虡兮，嵌岩岩其龙鳞，扬光曜之燎烛兮，乘景炎之炘炘，配帝居之县圃兮，象泰壹之威神。
洪台掘其独出兮，北极之嶟嶟，列宿乃施于上日月才经于柍桭，雷郁律而岩突兮，电倏忽于墙藩。
鬼魅不能自还兮，半长途而下颠。
历倒景而绝飞梁兮，浮蔑蠓而撇天。
左欃枪右玄冥兮，前熛阙后应门；阴西海与幽都兮，涌醴汩以生川。
translation: 
At this time, we have not reached Ganquan, and we can see the continuous sky in the distance.
It's cold and low below, and it's all mixed up above; it's so high that it reaches the sky, and it's immeasurable.
The plains are open and wide, and the forests are thick with grass and are lined with new trees and pheasants; they gather and intersperse with trees, and are scattered endlessly.
The hills are tall and the ravines are deep and dangerous; the connected palaces shine everywhere, and the mountains and stone passes are connected continuously. So the building is like clouds and waves, and Cui Wei becomes a viewing tower. Looking up, I feel dizzy and unable to see. Appreciating its height and pointing out its length, my mind is confused and confused.
Holding the Xuan Ling and looking around, I saw endless reflections in the distance. The jade trees are green and green, and the agate and rhinoceros horns decorate the walls brilliantly.
The brave golden man carries Zhong Yu on his back, the dragon scale rock is spread out, holding a bright torch, riding the brilliance of the sun, comparable to the county garden where the Emperor of Heaven lives, like the god Taiyi.
The high platform stands out steeply, reaching as far as the North Pole. The stars extend to the wings of the house. The sun and moon pass through the center of the house. Thunder roars in the depths and lightning flashes between the walls.
The ghosts could not reach it and fell halfway.
Walking along the pontoon along the reflection, mosquitoes can float into the sky.
On the left is the spear, on the right is Xuanming, in front is the prostitution palace and in the back is the Yingmen; the west sea and Youdu are shaded, and the Li spring gushes out to form a river.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
蛟龙连蜷于东厓兮，白虎敦圉虖昆仑。览樛流于高光兮，溶方皇于西清。
前殿崔巍兮，和氏珑玲，炕浮柱之飞榱兮，神莫莫而扶倾，闶阆阆其寥廓兮，似紫宫之峥嵘。
曳红采之流离兮，飏翠气之冤延。
袭琁室与倾宫兮，若登高妙远，肃乎临渊。
回飙肆其砀骇兮，翍桂椒，郁栘杨。
香芬茀以穷隆兮，击薄栌而将荣。芗呹肸以掍根兮，声駍隐而历钟，排玉户而扬金铺兮，发兰惠与穹穷。
惟弸彋其拂汩兮，稍暗暗而靓深。阴阳清浊穆羽相和兮，若夔、牙之调琴。般、倕弃其剞厥兮，王尔投其钩绳。
虽方征侨与偓佺兮，犹仿佛其若梦。
于是事变物化，目骇耳回，盖天子穆然珍台闲馆璇题玉英蜎蠖濩之中，惟夫所以澄心清魂，储精垂思，感动天地，逆釐三神者。
乃搜逑索耦皋、伊之徒，冠伦魁能，函甘棠之惠，挟东征之意，相与齐乎阳灵之宫。
靡薜荔而为席兮，折琼技以为芳，噏清云之流瑕兮，饮若木之露英，集虖礼神之囿，登乎颂祇之堂。
建光耀之长旓兮，昭华覆之威威，攀璇玑而下视兮，行游目乎三危，陈众车于东坑兮，肆玉釱而下驰，漂龙渊而还九垠兮，窥地底而上回。
风傱々而扶辖兮，鸾凤纷其御蕤，梁弱水之濎濴兮，蹑不周之逶蛇，想西王母欣然而上寿兮，屏玉女而却虙妃。
玉女无所眺其清卢兮，虙妃曾不得施其蛾眉。
translation: 
The dragon curls up on the east bank, and the white tiger roars in Kunlun. Watch the twists and turns of the highlights and wander around in the quiet space of the west wing.
In the front hall, Cui Wei, a member of the He family, is exquisitely shining, with floating pillars and flying rafters, supported by gods in the dark. The high gate is empty and grand, as deep as a purple palace.
Interlaced and stretched, Cui Wei surrounds each other. Climb up and down the clouds, intertwined and deeply connected with nature. The red color is wandering and the green air is winding.
The Jiexuan Room and the Qing Palace are like climbing a high place to look far away, facing the abyss with solemnity.
The returning wind blows up, moving the trees, and the cinnamon peppers scatter and the poplars gather together.
The fragrance floats high and is sent to the wing pillars of the house. The sound vibrated the tree roots to move together, the roar was transmitted into the bell, and the Yuhu gold shop was opened, exuding the fragrance of orchids.
The wind blows in the curtains, and it is quiet and quiet. The clear and turbid yin and yang are in harmony with each other, just like Kui and Ya tuning the harp. Ban and Chui threw away their knives and chisels, and Wang Er threw away his hook and rope.
Even if recruiting overseas Chinese and hiring people go hand in hand, it seems like they are in a dream.
Then things change, shocking people. It is the solemn appearance of the emperor in the deep and wide palace with jade-decorated rafters in Zhentai Xianguan. He can calm his mind, store his essence and think deeply, move the heaven and earth, and pray to the three gods.
Then they looked for people who could rival Gao and Yi, who were talented and outstanding, possessed the virtues of Gantang, and had the will of Shuzheng, and gathered together in the Palace of Yangling.
Weaving beetles and lychees to make mats, folding qiong branches into fragrant flowers, sucking in the clear clouds and clear clouds, drinking the dew that blooms like trees, gathering in the garden of the God of Ceremony, climbing up to the main hall to sing the praises of the Earth God.
The seven-bright long canopy is erected, and the canopy is majestic. Climb the Xuanji and look around, looking around the three dangers. There are many cars displayed in Donggang. The idle horses are running downwards. They float across the Longyuan and return to a few layers. They have a glimpse of the underground and then return to the top.
The wind was galloping to support the emperor, and the luan and the phoenix held the tassels in their mouths, crossing the weak water as if it was very shallow, and easily crossed the rough water. I thought that the Queen Mother of the West was happily celebrating her birthday, and asked the jade girl and the virgin concubine to avoid it.
A jade girl cannot show her clear pupils, and a virgin concubine cannot show her eyebrows.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
方揽道德之精刚兮，侔神明与之为资。于是钦祡宗祈。
燎熏皇天，招繇泰壹。
举洪颐，树灵旗。
玄瓒角翏，秬鬯泔淡，肸向丰融，懿懿芬芬。
炎感黄龙兮，熛讹硕麟，选巫咸兮叫帝阍，开天庭兮延群神。
傧暗蔼兮降清坛，瑞穰穰兮委如山。
于是事毕功弘，回车而归，度三峦兮偈棠梨。
天阃决兮地垠开，八荒协兮万国谐。
岭巆嶙峋，洞无厓兮。上天之縡，杳旭卉兮，圣皇穆穆，信厥对兮。
俫祗效禋，神所依兮，徘徊招摇，灵迟兮。
辉光眩耀，隆厥福兮，子子孙孙，长亡极兮。
translation: 
He possesses moral integrity and has the same qualifications as the gods. So he respectfully piled up firewood to seek blessings.
Burning the emperor's sky, swaggering.
Raise Hong Yi and raise the Nie flag.
The firewood and hemp stalks are burned together, and the righteousness is scattered in all directions, shining on the blue sea, shining on the quicksand in the west, swaying Youdu in the north, and suppressing the heat in the south. The cupboard in Xuan Zan is full and filled with fragrance.
The light of fire moved the Yellow Dragon, and the fire flew into the sky and turned into a great lin. He sent Wu Xian to call the Heavenly Gate and open the Heavenly Court to invite the gods.
The best friend's divine shadow descended on the clear altar, and the auspiciousness accumulated like a mountain.
So when the work was done, I changed my car and returned, passing through Sanman, resting in the fortress, where did I go?
The gates of heaven and the earth are opened, and the eight wastelands are harmonious with all nations.
The king of the land reclamation beats the thunder drum, the sound is loud and the ten brave men rise up, the clouds are flying and the rain is pouring, it is said that virtue shines on the world. Luan said: The high circular hills, the high and far sky, rise and fall, and circle around. The palaces are staggered, tall and connected, and the layers are deep and boundless. The things of heaven are high and swift, the Holy Emperor is beautiful, and they are in harmony with heaven and earth.
Come to the suburbs to offer sacrifices, the gods are attached to you, wandering and swaying, relaxed and relaxed.
The brilliance is dazzling, and the blessings are brought down, and the descendants will be endless forever.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
甘泉本因秦离宫，既奢泰，而武帝复增通天、高光、迎风。
宫外近则洪崖、旁皇、储胥、弩阹，远则石关、封峦、枝鹊、露寒、棠梨、师得，游观屈奇瑰玮，非木摩而不雕，墙涂而不画，周宣所考，般庚所迁，夏卑宫室，唐、虞棌椽三等之制也。
且其为已久矣，非成帝所造，欲谏则非时，欲默则不能已，故遂推而隆之，乃上比于帝室紫宫，若曰此非人力之所为，党鬼神可也。
又是时赵昭仪方大幸，每上甘泉，常法从，在属车间豹尾中。
故雄聊盛言车骑之众，参丽之驾，非所以感动天地，逆釐三神。
又言 屏玉女，却虑妃 ，以微戒齐肃之事。
赋成，奏之，天子异焉。
其三月，将祭后土，上乃帅群臣横大河，凑汾阴。
既祭，行游介山，回安邑，顾龙门，览盐池，登历观，陟西岳以望八荒，迹殷、周之虚，眇然以思唐、虞之风。
雄以为，临川羡鱼不如归而结网，还，上《河东赋》以劝。
translation: 
Ganquan was originally built on the basis of Qin Li Palace. It was already very luxurious and gorgeous. Emperor Wu also added a towering, high-gloss, and wind-facing building.
Outside the palace are Hongya, Panghuang, Chuxu, and Nulu in the distance, and in the distance are Shiguan, Fengluan, Zhique, Luhan, Tangli, and Shide. The tour is magnificent and majestic. There are no wooden vessels that are not carved, and there are no walls that are not painted.
And it was a long time ago and was not built by Emperor Cheng. Yang Xiong wanted to remonstrate but felt it was not the right time. He wanted to be silent but couldn't do it himself, so he praised it and compared it to the Purple Palace of the imperial family, as if it was not built by human power. It would be okay if it was built by ghosts and gods.
At this time, Zhaoyi was being favored. Whenever he went to Ganquan, he would always let her follow him according to etiquette and sit in the leopard's tail of the carriage.
Therefore, Yang Xiong tries his best to describe the chariots as numerous and beautiful, but they cannot be used to move heaven and earth and pray for blessings from the three gods.
He also said that he would repel jade girls and worry about concubines to tactfully exhort him to be pious.
The emperor was very surprised when the poem was completed.
In March of that year, when he wanted to offer sacrifices to his queen, the emperor led his ministers across the river and arrived at Fenyin.
After the sacrifice, we visited Jieshan on the road, bypassed Anyi, visited Longmen, Yanchi, climbed to the Li Temple, went up to the Huashan Mountains and looked at the eight wastelands, walked on the site of the Yin and Zhou dynasties, looked far away and missed the wind of Tang and Yu.
Yang Xiong thought that it would be better for the fish in Linchuan to retreat and build a net. After returning, he offered "Hedong Fu" to satirize and admonish him. The poem said:


Chunk 9: 
original: 
其辞曰：伊年暮春，将瘗后土，礼灵祇，谒汾阴于东郊，因兹以勒崇垂鸿，发祥隤祉，饮若神明者，盛哉铄乎，越不可载已！于是命群臣，齐法服，整灵舆，乃抚翠凤之驾，六先景之乘，掉奔星之流旃，彏天狼之威弧。
张耀日之玄旄，扬左纛，被云梢。
奋电鞭，骖雷辎，鸣洪钟，建五旗。
羲和司日，颜伦奉舆，风发飙拂，神腾鬼趡；千乘霆乱，万骑屈桥，嘻嘻旭旭，天地稠。
簸丘跳峦，涌渭跃泾。
秦神下詟，跖魂负沴；河灵矍踢，掌华蹈衰。
遂臻阴宫，穆穆肃肃，蹲蹲如也。
灵祇既乡，五位时叙，絪缊玄黄，将绍厥后。
于是灵舆安步，周流容与，以览乎介山。
嗟文公而愍推兮，勤大禹于龙门，洒沈灾于豁渎兮，播九河于东濒。
登历观而遥望兮，聊浮游以经营。乐往昔之遗风兮，喜虞氏之所耕。
translation: 
In the late spring of this year, I wanted to offer sacrifices to my ancestors and worship the spirits. I went to Fenyin in the suburbs of Shu, where I carved my honorary name, passed down my great deeds, brought good fortune and brought blessings, and respected and obeyed the gods. It was so magnificent that I can’t finish the book! Then he ordered the ministers to dress up their legal uniforms and spiritual flags, carry a chariot decorated with emerald phoenixes, ride on six swift horses, turn around and run on a star-like flow, opening up the majestic arc of the Sirius.
Open the Xuanyuan that shines in the sun, raise the left 纛, and cover it with clouds.
Raise the electric whip, drive the thunder chariot, ring the bell, and raise the five flags.
Xihe is in charge of the sun, Yan Lun is driving, the wind is blowing, gods and ghosts are galloping; thousands of chariots and cavalry are vigorous and vigorous, and they are contented and contented, and the heaven and earth are shaken.
Jump over hills and mountains, jump over Jingwei rivers.
The god of Qin jumps in fear, and his soul leans on the embankment; the spirit of the river is startled, and his palms are in China, and his feet are falling.
Then he arrived at the Yin Palace, solemn and solemn, and his actions were measured.
The spirit has arrived, the order of the gods of the five directions has been determined, the sky is mysterious and the earth is yellow, and the great prosperity will follow.
So Lingyu stabilized his position and traveled around Anyu. Visit the company.
Sighing at Se Gong, he became a hero and felt sad. He mourned Yu the Great in the ridges, dug ditches to divert the floods, and spread the nine rivers along the coast of the East China Sea.
Climb the calendar to look far away and plan your travels. Appreciate the wind of the past, and like the land where the Yu family cultivated.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
瞰帝唐之嵩高兮，眽隆周之大宁。
汨低回而不能去兮，行睨陔下与彭城。秽南巢之坎坷兮，易豳岐之夷平。
乘翠龙而超河兮，陟西岳之峣崝。
隃于穆之缉熙兮，过《清庙》之雍雍；轶五帝之遐迹兮，蹑三皇之高踪。
既发轫于平盈兮，谁谓路远而不能从？其十二月羽猎，雄从。
以为昔在二帝、三王，宫馆、台榭、沼池、苑囿、林麓、薮泽，财足以奉郊庙、御宾客、充庖厨而已，不夺百姓膏腴谷土桑柘之地。
女有余布，男有余粟，国家殷富，上下交足，故甘露零其庭，醴泉流其唐，凤皇巢其树，黄龙游其沼，麒麟臻其囿，神爵栖其林。
昔者禹任益虞而上下和，草木茂；成汤好田而天下用足；文王囿百里，民以为尚小；齐宣王囿四十里，民以为大；裕民之与夺民也。
武帝广开上林，南至宜春、鼎胡、御宿、昆吾，旁南山而西，至长杨、五柞，北绕黄山，濒渭而东，周袤数百里，穿昆明池象滇河，营建章、凤阙、神明、馺娑，渐台、泰液象海水周流方丈、瀛洲、蓬莱。
游观侈靡，穷妙极丽。
虽颇割其三垂以赡齐民，然至羽猎、田车、戎马、器械、储偫、禁御所营，尚泰奢丽夸诩，非尧、舜、成汤、文王三驱之意也。
又恐后世复修前好，不折中以泉台，故聊因《校猎赋》以风，其辞曰：
或称戏、农，岂或帝王之弥文哉？
论者云否，各亦并时而得宜，奚必同条而共贯？
translation: 
I saw the height of Emperor Tang and the tranquility of Sheng Zhou.
I couldn't leave because I wanted to see Peixia and Pengcheng. I hate the ruggedness of Nanchao, but I love the Guangping of Binqi.
Cross the river on a green dragon and climb the majestic Mount Huashan. The clouds floated in to greet me, the rain and dew fell, the silence was deep and the clouds lingered.
Encourage the gods to set an example and praise the Six Classics to express their aspirations. To be virtuous is too Zhou; to imitate the Three Emperors is better than the Five Emperors.
Starting from Pinglu, who said we can't follow if we have a long way to go? In December of this year, Yu hunted and Yang Xiong followed.
It is believed that during the time of the second emperor and the third king in ancient times, the products of the palaces, pavilions, marshes, ponds, gardens, woods, and deep lakes were enough to serve suburban temples, receive guests, and fill the kitchen, without robbing the people of their fertile grain fields and land for growing mulberry trees.
Women have surplus cloth, men have surplus grain, the country is rich and abundant, so the dew falls in the garden, the sweet spring gushes out from the pond, the phoenix builds its nest in the tree, the yellow dragon swims in the pond, the unicorn comes to the garden, and the divine sparrow roosts in the forest.
In the past, Yu appointed Yi to be in charge of the mountains and rivers, which were harmonious and luxuriant. Chengtang loved hunting in the fields and the world had sufficient wealth. King Wen's garden was a hundred miles long, but the people still thought it was too small. King Xuan of Qi's garden was forty miles long, but the people thought it was too big. This is the difference between making the people rich and robbing them of their wealth.
Emperor Wu expanded Shanglin to Yichun, Dinghu, Yusu, and Kunwu in the south, Nanshan Mountain in the west, Changyang and Wuzha, Huangshan Mountain in the north, and Weishui River in the east, with a circumference of several hundred miles. Following the example of the Dian River, the Kunming Pool was excavated to build Jianzhang, Fengque, Shenming, Yusuo, Jiantai, Taiye and Xiangxiang seawater to surround Fangzhang, Yingzhou and Penglai.
The sightseeing is luxurious and wonderful.
Although a lot of the three sides of Shanglin Garden were cut off for the common people, the construction of palace walls for hunting fields, chariots, horses, and equipment was still too extravagant and flashy, which was not the original intention of Yao, Shun, Cheng Tang, and King Wen.
Yang Xiong was also afraid that his descendants would add more repairs due to hobbies, so he did not take Quantai as a lesson, so he used "Xiao Xie Fu" to satirize and admonish him, saying in his speech:
Some people praise Xi Nong, but are future emperors more decorated?
The commentators said no, each one should adapt to the circumstances, so why should we follow one standard?


Chunk 11: 
original: 
则泰山之封，乌得七十而有二仪？
是以创业垂统者俱不见其爽，遐迩五三孰知其是非？
遂作颂曰：丽哉神圣，处于玄宫，富既与地乎侔訾，贵正与天乎比崇。
齐桓曾不足使扶毂，楚严未足以为骖乘；陿三王之厄薜，峤高举而大兴；历五帝之寥郭，涉三皇之登闳；建道德以为师，友仁义与为朋。
于是玄冬季月，天地隆烈，万物权舆于内，徂落于外，帝将惟田于灵之囿，开北垠，受不周之制，以终始颛顼、玄冥之统。
乃诏虞人典泽，东延昆邻，西驰闛阖。
储积共偫，戍卒夹道，斩丛棘，夷野草，御自汧、渭，经营酆、镐，章皇周流，出入日月，天与地杳。
尔乃虎路三嵏以为司马，围经百里而为殿门。
外则正南极海，邪界虞渊，鸿濛沆茫，碣以崇山。
营合围会，然后先置乎白杨之南，昆明灵沼之东。
translation: 
Otherwise, how could there be seventy-two rituals for sealing Mount Tai?
Therefore, those who start a business are not wrong. Who knows what is right or wrong among the Five Emperors and Three Kings near and far?
So he sang a poem: It is sacred and magnificent, living in Xuan Palace, as rich as the earth, as noble as the sky.
Qi Huan is not worthy to support the chariot, and Chu Yan is not worthy to drive the horse; break through the remoteness of the three kings and stride forward; be as grand as the five emperors, as high as the three emperors; use morality as a teacher, and make friends with benevolence and righteousness.
So in the last month of Yanyan, when the Yin Qi is strong, everything is born inside and dies outside. The emperor wants to go hunting in Lingde's garden, open up the north, and brave the northwest wind to inherit the legacy of Zhuanxu and Xuanming.
The people of Yu were ordered to take charge of the lake, and it was sent to Kunbian and to Guihe in the west.
Reserves are on standby, garrison soldiers stand by the road, clearing away thorns and weeds, banning travel in Yi and Wei, and regulating Feng and Dy. The surrounding area is vast, with the moon rising and setting in it, and the sky and earth seem far away.
In the third phase, Jian Huluo served as the Sima Gate, and its diameter of a hundred miles served as the palace gate.
Outside, it faces the sea due south and Yuyuan on the left. The mountains are independent and vast.
The joint venture conference was first set up south of Baiyang and east of Kunming Meihu.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
贲、育之伦，蒙盾负羽，杖镆邪而罗者以万计，其余荷垂天之毕，张竟野之罘，靡日月之诛竿，曳彗星之飞旗。
青云为纷，红蜺为缳，属之乎昆仑之虚，涣若天星之罗，浩如涛水之波，淫淫与与，前后要遮。
欃枪为闉，明月为候，荧惑司命，天弧发射，鲜扁陆离，骈衍佖路。
徽车轻武，鸿絧緁猎，殷殷轸轸，被陵缘阪，穷冥极远者，相与迾乎高原之上；羽骑营营，昈分殊事，缤纷往来，轠轳不绝，若光若灭者，布乎青林之下。
于是天子乃以阳晁始出乎玄宫，撞鸿钟，建九旒，六白虎，载灵舆，蚩尤并毂，蒙公先驱。
立历天之旂，曳捎星之旃，辟历列缺，吐火施鞭。
萃傱允溶，淋离廓落，戏八镇而开关；飞廉、云师，吸嚊潚率，鳞罗布列，攒以龙翰。
秋秋跄跄，入西园，切神光；望平乐，径竹林，蹂蕙圃，践兰唐。
虓虎之陈，从横胶輵，猋泣雷厉，驞駍駖磕，汹汹旭旭，天动地岋。
羡漫半散，萧条数千万里外。
若夫壮士慷慨，殊乡别趣，东西南北，聘耆奔欲。
translation: 
Bi Yu and others, carrying shields and feathers on their backs, held Moye to intercept tens of thousands of beasts. The others carried the hanging outline on their backs, stretched out their covered carriages, put down the red pole of the sun and moon flag, and raised the flying comet flag.
Blue clouds form a trail, and rainbows form a network, dotting the Kunlun Valley, scattered like stars, and as vast as rolling waves, coming and going, blocking the front and back.
The comet serves as a fortress, the bright moon serves as a watchtower, and Yinghuo serves as a commanding officer. It is launched with a sky arc, brisk and jumbled, and the road is majestic.
The Huizhou chariots are agile, galloping in order, majestic and majestic, climbing uphill and far away, juxtaposed on the plateau; feathered cavalry are circling, with distinct costumes, and there is an endless stream, looming, distributed under the green forest.
So the emperor came out of Xuan Palace after sunrise, rang the big bell, and there were nine beautiful trees and six white tigers pulling the hearse. Chiyou drove alongside, and Meng Gong served as the pioneer.
The banner of Xiangtian is set up; the banner of flying stars is raised, thunder and lightning flash, spitting fire and whipping.
The gathering is grand, free-spirited and broad-minded, commanding the switches of the eight towns; Fei Lian and Yunshi are panting and bleak, arranged like fish scales, and gathered together like dragon feathers.
Chirping, chirping, choking, entering the West Garden, getting close to the divine light; looking at Pingle from afar, walking through the bamboo forest, stepping on the Hui Garden, and stepping on the orchid slope.
The beacon is lit, the driver shows off his skills, thousands of horses are driven together, and tens of thousands of troops are trained. Roaring tigers marched in formation, criss-crossing each other, roaring and thundering, with such force that the sky shook and the earth shook.
Scattered and spread tens of millions of miles away.
As for the strong men who are generous and have different interests, they can travel east, west, north and south as they please.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
拖苍豨，跋犀犛，蹶浮麋。
斮巨狿，捕玄蝯，腾空虚，距连卷。
踔夭蟜，娭涧门，莫莫纷纷，山谷为之风飙，林丛为之生尘。
及至获夷之徒，蹶松柏，掌疾梨；猎蒙茏，辚轻飞；履般首，带修蛇；钩赤豹，摼象犀；跇峦坑，超唐陂。
车骑云会，登降暗蔼，泰华为旒，熊耳为缀。
逢蒙列訾，羿氏控弦，皇车幽輵，光纯天地，望舒弥辔，翼乎徐至于上兰。
移围徙陈，浸淫蹴部，曲队坚重，各按行伍。
壁垒天旋，神抶电击，逢之则碎，近之则破，鸟不及飞，兽不得过，军惊师骇，刮野扫地。
乃至罕车飞扬，武骑聿皇；蹈飞豹，绢嘄阳；追天宝，出一方；应駍声，击流光。
translation: 
Pull the wild pig, strangle the rhinoceros, and kick the floating elk.
Kill Da Ting, fight Xuan Yuan, leap into the sky, and uproot the curved tree.
As you walk through the crooked branches and play at the gate of the stream, dust rises, the valley becomes violently windy, and the jungle becomes dusty.
As for those who can capture Yi Di, they can kick pines and cypresses with their feet and hit thistles with their palms; they can hunt in dense vegetation and crush birds; they can step on tigers and leopards and pull out long snakes; they can kill red leopards with hooks and lead elephants and rhinoceros; they can climb mountains and cross ponds.
The chariots and riders are like clouds, and it is difficult to tell the upper and lower sides. They are decorated with Thai flowers and bear ears.
The trees turn over the mountains, spread out across the sky, stroll by the water, and nomadic in the territory. Then the sky was clear and cloudless, and Dong opened his eyes and drew his bow. The imperial carriages came one after another, illuminating the sky and the earth. Wang Li took the reins and slowly arrived at Shangyan.
The formation changes, gathers slightly, twists and turns overlap, each marching in line.
The barriers circled and struck like lightning. They shattered when touched and broke when approached. Birds had no time to fly, wild beasts could not pass through, and the army was horrified and swept the field.
When the rare chariot is galloping, the cavalry is swift and fierce, stepping on the flying leopard to catch the noisy sun; chasing the Tianbao, coming out from one side; responding to the sound of the suddenness, supporting the flowing light.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
野尽山穷，囊括其雌雄，沈沈容容，遥噱乎紭中。
三军芒然，穷冘阏与，亶观夫票禽之绁隃，犀兕之抵触，熊罴之挐攫，虎豹之凌遽，徒角抢题注，戚竦詟怖，魂亡魄失，触辐关脰。
妄发期中，进退履获，创淫轮夷，丘累陵聚。
于是禽殚中衰，相与集于靖冥之馆，以临珍池。
灌以岐梁，溢以江河，东瞰目尽，西畅亡厓，随珠和氏，焯烁其陂。
玉石嶜崟，眩耀青荧，汉女水潜，怪物暗冥，不可殚形。
玄鸾孔雀，翡翠垂荣，王雎关关，鸿雁嘤嘤，群娭乎其中，噍噍昆鸣；凫鹥振鹭，上下砰磕，声若雷霆。
乃使文身之技，水格鳞虫，凌坚冰，犯严渊，探岩排碕，薄索蛟螭，蹈獱獭，据鼋鼍，抾灵蠵。
入洞穴，出苍梧，乘巨鳞，骑京鱼。
translation: 
The mountains and fields are exhausted, and all animals, both male and female, are found. There are many animals in the wild, and they are showing off in the vertical net.
The three armies were in great numbers, chasing the running beasts and intercepting them. They saw birds being tied up, rhinoceros clashing with each other, bears fighting fiercely, tigers and leopards frightened, their horns meeting their foreheads in vain, trembling in horror, their souls flying to pieces, and their heads and necks broken when they touched the spokes of the car.
Arrows fired at random can hit them, and they can be stepped on when advancing or retreating. The beasts are injured more than the wheels, and they are piled up like hills.
So the birds died, and they gathered together in the deep leisure hall, facing the precious pond.
The water of Yinqi Liang and the rivers are shining at the extreme sun and boundless west. They are shining on the slope with Zhu Heshi.
The jade is high and pointed, the blue light is dazzling, the man and woman are diving, the monster is dark, and its appearance cannot be exhausted.
Xuanluan peacock, emerald streamer, Wangju Pass, swan geese are playing among them, croaking and singing; grunts and herons are flying, bumping up and down, making a sound like thunder.
They asked the tattoo technicians to enter the water to fight with fish and insects, break through the ice, enter the abyss, climb rocks to support the shore, force out the dragons, step on the otters, catch the turtles, and catch the spiritual octopuses.
Entering the cave, coming out of the canopy, riding a big fish, riding a giant whale.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
浮彭蠡，目有虞，方椎夜光之流离，剖明月之珠胎，鞭洛水之虙妃，饷屈原与彭胥。
于兹乎鸿生巨儒，俄轩冕，杂衣裳，修唐典，匡《雅》、《颂》，揖让于前。
昭光振耀，蚃曶如神，仁声惠于北狄，武义动于南邻。
是以旃裘之王，胡貉之长，移珍来享，抗手称臣。前入围口，后陈卢山。
群公常伯杨朱、墨翟之徒喟然称曰： 崇哉乎德，虽有唐、虞、大厦、成周之隆，何以侈兹！
太古之觐东岳，禅梁基，舍此世也，其谁与哉？
translation: 
Floating Peng Li, visiting Youyu. He struck the luminous glass on his spine, opened the moon-like belly, whipped the virgin concubine of Luoshui, and entertained Qu Yuan and Peng Xu.
Then the great Confucian appeared, wearing a high chariot crown and colorful clothes, revising the Tang Code, correcting "Ya" and "Song", and saluted in front of him.
The light shines brightly and the sound is like a god. It benefits Beidi mercifully and fights righteous wars in the south.
Therefore, the king in Zhanqiu and the officials of Hu raccoon dog were sent to the court, raised their hands and proclaimed themselves ministers. The front entered Weichuan, and the rear troops were sent to Lushan.
The ministers Chang Bo Yang Zhu and Mo Zhai sighed and said: "The morals are so high. Even with the prosperity of Tang, Yu, Daxia and Chengzhou, how can it surpass it!"
The ancient pilgrimage to Shuyue was at the foot of Mount Liang. If it were not for this life, who could do it?


Chunk 16: 
original: 
上犹谦让而未俞也，方将上猎三灵之流，下决醴泉之滋，发黄龙之穴，窥凤皇之巢，临麒麟之囿，幸神雀之林；奢云梦，侈孟诸，非章华，是灵台，罕徂离宫而辍观游，土事不饰，木功不雕，承民乎农桑，劝之以弗迨，侪男女使莫违；恐贫穷者不遍被洋溢之饶，开禁苑，散公储，创道德之囿，弘仁惠之虞，驰弋乎神明之囿，览观乎群臣之有亡；放雉菟，收罝罘，麋鹿刍荛与百姓共之，盖所以臻兹也。
于是醇洪鬯之德，丰茂世之规，加劳三皇，勖勤五帝，不亦至乎！
乃祗庄雍穆之徒，立君臣之节，崇贤圣之业，未皇苑囿之丽，游猎之靡也，因回轸还衡，背阿房，反未央。
translation: 
The emperor still humbly said otherwise, he would hunt for the stream of three spirits from above, open the water of Liquan below, open the Huanglong Cave, peek into the Phoenix Nest, face the Qilin Garden, and go to the forest of divine birds; shrink Yunmeng and Mengzhu, precept Zhanghua, serve the spirit platform, and visit the palace as little as possible, without decorating the building, without carving wooden utensils, and encouraging the people to farm and cultivate mulberry trees. Don't slack off, make men and women match each other in marriage; fear that the poor will not get rich benefits, open the emperor's forest garden, distribute the public grain reserves, create a moral garden, a broad and benevolent Yuze, run in the gods' gardens, observe the gains and losses of the officials; let go of the pheasants and toads, put away the rice harvesters, the elk and firewood are shared with the people, this is probably the point.
Therefore, great virtues and mellow virtues, good laws in prosperous times, comforting the three emperors, and encouraging the five emperors are also very grand!
So he respected the people of Yi, upheld the integrity of the monarch and his ministers, respected the merits of the saints, and had no time for the beautiful gardens and the luxury of hunting. So he turned the car away from Afang and returned to Weiyang.


