Chunk 0: 
original: 
魏舒，字阳元，任城樊人也。
少孤，为外家宁氏所养。
宁氏起宅，相宅者云： 当出贵甥。
外祖母以魏氏甥小而慧，意谓应之。
舒曰： 当为外氏成此宅相。
久乃别居。
身长八尺二寸，姿望秀伟，饮酒石余，而迟钝质朴，不为乡亲所重。
从叔父吏部郎衡，有名当世，亦不之知，使守水碓，每叹曰： 舒堪数百户长，我愿毕矣！
舒亦不以介意。
不修常人之节，不为皎历之事，每欲容才长物，终不显人之短。
性好骑射，著韦衣。入山泽，以渔猎为事。
唯太原王乂谓舒曰： 卿终当为台辅，然今未能令妻子免饥寒，吾当助卿营之。
常振其匮乏，舒受而不辞。
舒尝诣野王，主人妻夜产，俄而闻车马之声，相问曰： 男也，女也？
曰： 男，书之，十五以兵死。
复问： 寝者为谁？
曰： 魏公舒。
后十五载，诣主人，问所生兒何在，曰： 因条桑为斧伤而死。
舒自知当为公矣。
年四十余，郡上计掾察孝廉。
宗党以舒无学业，劝令不就，可以为高耳。
舒曰： 若试而不中，其负在我，安可虚窃不就之高以为己荣乎！
于是自课。百日习一经，因而对策升第。
除渑池长，迁浚仪令，入为尚书郎。
时欲沙汰郎官。非其才者罢之。
舒曰： 吾即其人也。
襆被而出。
同僚素无清论者咸有愧色，谈者称之。
累迁后将军钟毓长史，毓每与参佐射，舒常为画筹而已。
后遇朋人不足，以舒满数。
毓初不知其善射。
舒容范闲雅，发无不中，举坐愕然。
莫有敌者。毓叹而谢曰： 吾之不足以尽卿才，有如此射矣，岂一事哉！
translation: 
Wei Shu, courtesy name Yangyuan, was born in Renchengfan.
His father died when he was young and he was adopted by his maternal grandfather's Ning family.
When Mr. Ning built a house, the person who looked at the feng shui of the house said: "A noble nephew will be born."
Because her grandson Wei was young and smart, my grandmother thought that he had followed the Feng Shui master's words.
Wei Shu said: I should prove the auspiciousness of this house for my grandfather's family.
It took a long time before I moved to another place.
He is eight feet two inches tall, has a beautiful body and a majestic appearance, and can drink more than a stone of wine. However, he is slow and simple, and is not valued by the villagers.
Wei Heng, the official uncle of the hall, was well-known in the world but didn't know him well. He asked him to guard the water-powered rice pounding facility. He often sighed and said: "Wei Shu can be the head of a hundred households, so I will be satisfied!"
Wei Shu didn't take this to heart either.
Don't pay attention to ordinary people's moral integrity, don't do things that are reserved and arrogant, and always want to be tolerant in order to respect people. Never reveal the shortcomings of others.
By nature, he likes to ride horses and shoot arrows. He wears reed clothes and goes into the mountains and rivers to fish and hunt.
Only Wang Yi of Taiyuan said to Wei Shu: You will eventually become prime minister, but now you cannot protect your wife and children from hunger and cold. I should help you make a living.
He often offered relief to Wei Shu for his shortcomings, but Wei Shu accepted it without refusing.
Wei Shu once went to Yewang. The wife of the owner of the house was giving birth to a baby at night. After a while, he heard the sound of carriages and horses. The people in the carriages asked each other: "Is it a boy or a girl?"
Answered: Boy, write it down, died by a sharp weapon at the age of fifteen.
Asked again: Who is sleeping in the room?
He replied: Wei Gong Wei Shu.
Fifteen years later, he went to the house owner again and asked where his son was. He was told that he died because he was injured by an ax while cutting mulberry branches.
Wei Shu himself knew that he would become a public servant.
When he was in his forties, the county's planner visited Xiaolian.
The clan believed that Wei Zhong had no academic skills and advised him not to take the exam as this would show his noble character.
Wei Shu said: If I go to the exam and fail, the responsibility lies with me. How can I take the honor of not going to the exam and stealing the false name of Gao Jie as my own glory?
So he studied his own homework and studied a "Sutra" for a hundred days, so he answered the policy questions and passed the exam.
He was granted the title of Chief of Mianchi, moved to the post of Jun Yi Ling, and entered the court as Shangshu Lang.
At that time, Lang officials were selected and eliminated, and those who were incompetent were dismissed.
Wei Shu said: I am the one who should be eliminated.
Roll up the quilt and leave.
Those among his colleagues who had never spoken highly felt ashamed, while those who discussed the matter praised Wei Shu.
After gradually moving to the post of general Zhong Yu, Zhong Yu often shot arrows with his subordinates, and Wei Shu often planned for him.
Later, when he encountered a shortage of friends, he asked Wei Shu to make up the number.
Zhong Yu didn't know Wei Shu was good at archery at first.
Wei Shu's shooting posture was elegant and he never failed to hit the mark. Everyone in the audience was amazed. No one could compare with him.
Zhong Yu sighed and apologized: I didn't give full play to your talent. With such a good archery skill, shouldn't it be limited to archery?


Chunk 1: 
original: 
转相国参军，封剧阳子。
府朝碎务，未尝见是非；至于废兴大事，众人莫能断者，舒徐为筹之，多出众议之表。
文帝深器重之，每朝会坐罢，目送之曰： 魏舒堂堂，人之领袖也。
迁宜阳、荥阳二郡太守，甚有声称。
征拜散骑常侍。
出为冀州刺史，在州三年，以简惠称。
入为侍中。
武帝以舒清素，特赐绢百匹。
迁尚书，以公事当免官，诏以赎论。
舒三娶妻皆亡，是岁自表乞假还本郡葬妻，诏赐葬地一顷，钱五十万。
太康初，拜右仆射。
舒与卫瓘、山涛、张华等以六合混一，宜用古典封禅东岳，前后累陈其事，帝谦让不许。
以舒为左仆射，领吏部。
舒上言： 今选六宫，聘以玉帛，而旧使御府丞奉聘，宣成嘉礼，贽重使轻。
以为拜三夫人宜使卿，九嫔使五官中郎将，美人、良人使谒者，于典制为弘。
有诏详之，众议异同，遂寝。
加右光禄大夫、仪同三司。
及山涛薨，以舒领司徒，有顷即真。
舒有威重德望，禄赐散之九族，家无余财。
陈留周震累为诸府所辟，辟书既下，公辄丧亡，佥号震为杀公掾，莫有辟者。
舒乃命之，而竟无患，识者以此称其达命。
以年老，每称疾逊位。
中复暂起，署兗州中正，寻又称疾。
尚书左丞郤诜与舒书曰： 公久疾小差，视事是也，唯上所念。
何竟起讫还卧，曲身回法，甚失具瞻之望。
公少立巍巍，一旦弃之，可不惜哉！
舒称疾如初。
后以灾异逊位，帝不听。
后因正旦朝罢还第，表送章绶。
帝手诏敦勉。而舒执意弥固，乃下诏曰： 司徒、剧阳子舒，体道弘粹，思量经远，忠肃居正，在公尽规。
入管铨衡，官人允叙；出赞衮职，敷弘五教。
惠训播流，德声茂著，可谓朝之俊乂者也。
translation: 
He was transferred to the position of Prime Minister and joined the army, and was named Ju Yangzi.
Regarding the trivial affairs of the government and court, Wei Shu's governance has never been seen to be good or bad; as for major issues related to the country's failure and prosperity, no one can make a decision, and Wei Shu plans it slowly, often beyond the consensus of the public.
Emperor Wen valued him deeply. After every court meeting, he would see him off and say: "Wei Shu has a handsome appearance and is the leader of everyone."
He was moved to the post of governor of Yiyang and Rongyang counties and gained a good reputation.
He was conscripted into the imperial court and served as a regular attendant on the cavalry.
He served as the governor of Jizhou. He stayed in Jizhou for three years and had a reputation of being simple and benevolent.
Entered the dynasty and served as a servant.
Emperor Wu specially gave Wei Shu a hundred pieces of silk because of his honesty and simplicity.
When he was moved to the post of Minister, he should be removed from his official position due to official business, and Shaoshu ordered that he be punished as redemption.
Wei Shu married three times and all of his wives died. In the next year, he asked for leave and returned to the county to bury his wife. He was given a hectare of burial land and five hundred thousand dollars from Shao.
In the early years of Taikang, the official worshiped his right servant She.
Wei Shu, Wei Gan, Shan Zha, Tui Yi and others believed that the world was unified and should be enshrined in Mount Tai in accordance with ancient regulations. They stated this matter many times, but the emperor humbly disagreed.
Wei Shu was appointed Zuopushe and also in charge of the official department.
Wei Shu wrote a letter saying: Nowadays, the six palaces are selected and betrothal gifts are made with jade and silk. In the past, the imperial minister was sent to send betrothal gifts to complete the festive etiquette. The gifts were heavy and the envoys were light.
I think the third wife should send her ministers, the ninth concubine should send the fifth palace general, and the beauties and beloved should send their visitors. This will appear grand in terms of rules and regulations.
Shao Shu asked people to discuss the matter in detail, but everyone had different opinions, so it was shelved.
He was appointed as Dr. Youguanglu and the third director of Yitong.
When Shan Tao passed away, Wei Shu was appointed concurrently as Situ, and soon he officially took office.
Wei Wa has prestige, his salary and rewards are given to relatives, and there is no extra property in the family.
Zhou Zhen, a native of Chenliu, was recruited by many officials several times. After the letter of appointment was issued, the owner of the government died. Everyone gave Zhou Zhen the nickname "Slaying the Duke", but there was no one to recruit him.
Wei Shu appointed him, but there was no disaster. Based on this incident, knowledgeable people said that Wei Shu knew his fate.
Because of his old age, he often resigned due to illness.
In the meantime, he took up a job for a short period of time, acting as an agent for Yanzhou Zhongzheng. Soon he became ill again.
But Zuo Cheng, the minister, said that he wrote to Wei Shu and said: "The Duke has recovered from his long-term illness and can just manage government affairs. This is what the emperor cares about."
Why did he fall ill again after re-employing, and forced himself to avoid the regulations, which caused him to lose the high expectations of the public.
When Gong was young, he established a great cause. Wouldn't it be a pity if he gave up?
Wei Shu still complained of illness as before.
Later, he asked to resign due to disaster, but the emperor refused.
After that, he returned to the mansion after the meeting on the first day of the first lunar month and returned the seal ribbon.
The emperor started to urge Shao, but Wei Shu resolutely insisted on his own intention, so he issued an edict: Situ, Wei Shu, the son of Juyang, has a grand and quintessential approach, far-reaching thinking, loyalty and uprightness, is dedicated to public affairs, and does his best to plan.
When he was in the court, he selected officials and appointed them in a fair and orderly manner; when he was a local official, he promoted the Five Religions of Hongda.
His beautiful teachings spread far and wide, and his reputation was remarkable. He could be said to be a distinguished figure in the court.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
而屡执冲让，辞旨恳诚，申览反覆，省用怃然。
盖成人之美，先典所与，难违至情。
今听其所执，以剧阳子就第，位同三司，禄赐如前。
几杖不朝，赐钱百万，床帐簟褥自副。
以舍人四人为剧阳子舍人，置官骑十人。
使光禄勋奉策，主者详案典礼，令皆如旧制。
于是赐安车驷马，门施行马。
舒为事必先行而后言，逊位之际，莫有知者。
时论以为晋兴以来，三公能辞荣善终者，未之有也。
司空卫瓘与舒书曰： 每与足下共论此事，日日未果，可谓瞻之在前，忽焉在后矣。
太熙元年薨，时年八十二。
帝甚伤悼，赗赙优厚，谥曰康。
子混，字延广，清惠有才行，为太子舍人。
年二十七，先舒卒，朝野咸为舒悲惜。
舒每哀恸，退而叹曰： 吾不及庄生远矣，岂以无益自损乎！
于是终服不复哭。
诏曰： 舒惟一子，薄命短折。
舒告老之年，处穷独之苦，每念怛然，为之嗟悼。
思所以散愁养气，可更增滋味品物。
仍给赐阳燧四望繐窗户皁轮车牛一乘，庶出入观望，或足散忧也。
以庶孙融嗣。
又早卒，从孙晃嗣。
李憙，字季和，上党铜鞮人也。
父牷，汉大鸿胪。
憙少有高行，博学研精，与北海管宁以贤良征，不行。
累辟三府，不就。
宣帝复辟憙为太傅属，固辞疾，郡县扶舆上道，时憙母疾笃，乃窃逾泫氏城而徒还，遂遭母丧，论者嘉其志节。
后为并州别驾，时骁骑将军秦朗过并州，州将毕轨敬焉。令乘车至阁。
憙固谏以为不可，轨不得已从之。
translation: 
However, he repeatedly expressed humility and his words were sincere and sincere. I read it again and again, and it felt like I was missing something.
Fulfilling other people's good intentions is approved by the laws of the past, and it is difficult to violate his sincerity.
Now he obeys his request and returns to the mansion as Ju Yangzi, with the same position as the Third Division, and the salary and rewards are the same as before.
He was given a few cases and walking sticks, so he didn't have to go to court. He was given a million dollars in money, and the beds, tents, mats and mattresses all came together.
Use four people from the house to make the drama Yangzi Shiren, and set up ten officers and cavalry.
Guang Luxun was sent to deliver the policy document. The person in charge of the matter followed the regulations and etiquette in detail, and everything must be in accordance with the old system.
So he was given carriages and horses, and a wooden frame with antlers was set up in front of the door.
Wei Shu must do things first and talk later. When he resigned, no one knew about it.
The discussion at that time was that since the founding of the Jin Dynasty, no one else could resign and have a happy ending.
Sikong Weigan wrote to Wei Shu and said: I often discuss resignation with you, but there is no result every time. It can be said that I see this matter in the front, and then fall behind again.
Taixi died in the first year of his reign at the age of eighty-two.
The emperor expressed deep condolences and gave generous gifts for burial. Mi was named Kang.
His son Wei Hun, named Yanguang, was quiet, intelligent and talented, and was appointed as the prince.
At the age of twenty-seven, he died before Wei Shu. Wei Shu was mourned and mourned by everyone inside and outside the court.
Wei Shu often grieved, and afterwards sighed and said: I am far worse than Zhuang Sheng, how can I harm myself with useless grief!
So I stopped crying until the mourning was over.
The edict said: Wei Shu had only one son, and his life was short.
When Wei Shu abdicated, he suffered from embarrassment and loneliness. Whenever he thought of this, he felt sad and lamented for him.
Thinking about ways to relieve worries and nourish Qi can further increase the number of flavorful items.
Then give Yangsui four windows, a soap wheel, a cart and an ox to ride, hoping that going in and out to watch may be enough to relieve the sorrow.
Let the concubine Wei Rong succeed him.
He died early and was succeeded by his great-nephew Wei Huang.
Li Xi, whose courtesy name was Jihe, was from Shangdang Tongtian.
His father, Li Mo, was a great leader of the Han Dynasty.
Li Xi had good conduct when he was young, studied extensively and profoundly, and Guan Ning, a native of Beihai, was recruited for his virtuousness and refused to go.
He conquered the three prefectures several times but failed to take office.
Emperor Xuan also recruited Li Cong to serve as Taifu, but he firmly declined on the pretext of illness, and the county helped him get on the road. At that time, Kuitai's mother was seriously ill, so he secretly climbed over the city wall of the Xu family and walked home. Then he caught up with his mother's funeral. People who discussed the matter praised his ambition and integrity.
Later, he was appointed as a special chariot in Bingzhou. At that time, Qin Lang, the general of valiant cavalry, passed by Bingzhou. Bi Gui, the general of the state, respected him and asked him to ride to the government office.
Li Yi firmly advised him not to do that, and Bi Gui had no choice but to obey him.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
景帝辅政，命憙为大将军从事中郎，憙到，引见，谓憙曰： 昔先公辟君而君不应，今孤命君而君至，何也？
对曰： 先君以礼见待，憙得以礼进退。
明公以法见绳，憙畏法而至。
帝甚重之。
转司马，寻拜右长史。
从讨毌丘俭还，迁御史中丞。
当官正色，不惮强御，百僚震肃焉。
荐乐安孙璞，亦以道德显，时人称为知人。
寻迁大司马，以公事免。
司马伷为宁北将军，镇鄴，以憙为军司。
顷之，除凉州刺史，加扬威将军、假节，领护羌校尉，绥御华夷，甚有声绩。
羌虏犯塞，憙因其隙会，不及启闻，辄以便宜出军深入，遂大克获，以功重免谴，时人比之汉朝冯、甘焉。
于是请还，许之。
居家月余，拜冀州刺史，累迁司隶校尉。
及魏帝告禅于晋，憙以本官行司徒事，副太尉郑冲奉策。
泰始初，封祁侯。
憙上言： 故立进令刘友、前尚书山涛、中山王睦、故尚书仆射武陔各占官三更稻田，请免涛、睦等官。
陔已亡，请贬谥。
诏曰： 法者，天下取正，不避亲贵，然后行耳，吾岂将枉纵其间哉！
然案此事皆是友所作，侵剥百姓，以缪惑朝士。
奸吏乃敢作此，其考竟友以惩邪佞。
涛等不贰其过者，皆勿有所问。
《易》称 王臣蹇蹇，匪躬之故 。
今憙亢志在公，当官而行，可谓 邦之司直 者矣。
光武有云： 贵戚且敛手以避二鲍 。
岂其然乎！其申敕群僚，各慎所司，宽宥之恩，不可数遇也。
憙为二代司隶，朝野称之。
以公事免。
translation: 
When Emperor Jing was assisting the government, he appointed Kuitai as the general to serve as a lieutenant. When Li Xi arrived, he was introduced. Emperor Jing said to Li Xi: In the past, my father-in-law recruited you and you didn't agree. Now that I have appointed you, you are here. Why?
Li Xi replied: Your ancestors treated me with courtesy, and I was able to decide whether to enter an official position or retire according to the courtesy.
Ming Gong uses the law to restrain me, and I am afraid of the law.
Emperor Jing thought highly of him.
He was transferred to Sima, and soon he became the right chief historian.
Following the expedition against Qiu Jian, he returned to the imperial court and moved to the post of censor Zhongcheng.
The official is upright and not afraid of violence and power, and all the officials are shocked by this.
Sun Pu, a native of Le'an, was recommended. He was also famous for his morality. People at the time praised him for his ability to identify talents.
Soon he was moved to the post of Grand Sima, but was dismissed due to official duties.
Sima Bo was appointed as the general of Ningbei and guarded Ye, with Li Fu as the military commander.
Soon after, Li Cong was appointed as the governor of Liangzhou, and he was also appointed as General Yangwei, Jiajie, and Protector of Qiang. He stabilized China and resisted the barbarians, which was a very prestigious achievement.
When the Qiang people invaded the frontier, Li Fu took advantage of the opportunity without having time to report, so he sent troops to penetrate deeply at the right time. He won a great victory and was not condemned because of his great achievements. People at the time compared him to Dun Kuishi and Gan Yanshou of the Han Dynasty.
So he asked to go back to Beijing and agreed to him.
After living at home for more than a month, he became the governor of Jizhou and was gradually promoted to the rank of Sili Xiaowei.
When the Wei Emperor surrendered to the Jin Dynasty, Li Cuo assumed the position of Situ as his own official, and served as Taiwei Zheng Chong's deputy to hold the policy document.
In the early years of Taishi, he was granted the title of Marquis of Qi.
Li Xishangshu said: The former Li Jinling Liu You, the former Shan Tao, the Zhongshan King Sima Mu, and the late Shangshu Pushe Wu Bei each occupied the public rice fields at three o'clock, and requested that Shan Tao, Sima Mu and others be removed from their official positions.
Wu Ye is already dead, so I request that his nickname be derogated.
Shao Shu said: The world takes the law as the criterion and does not shun the royal family and nobles. It can only be implemented after the law. How can I indulge in evil and wasteful things!
However, the investigation was all done by Liu You, who violated and exploited the people and confused the court officials.
The traitor actually dared to do such a thing, so Liu You was tortured to punish the evil traitor.
If Shan Tao and others make no more mistakes, they will no longer be held accountable.
The Book of Changes says that kings and ministers are loyal because they have no selfish motives.
Nowadays, Li Fu persists in his ambition to serve the public affairs and acts in accordance with his responsibilities. He can be said to be the director of the country.
Emperor Guangwu said that the emperor's relatives restrained themselves to avoid Erbao. Is this the case?
All officials are warned to treat their duties with caution. The grace of leniency and forgiveness will not be encountered many times.
Li Yi served as a minister for two generations, and he was praised both inside and outside the court.
Dismissed from office due to official duties.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
其年，皇太子立，以憙为太子太傅。
自魏明帝以后，久旷东宫，制度废阙，官司不具，詹事、左右率、庶子、中舍人诸官并未置，唯置卫率令典兵，二傅并摄众事。
憙在位累年，训道尽规。
迁尚书仆射，拜特进、光禄大夫，以年老逊位。
诏曰： 光禄大夫、特进李憙，杖德居义，当升台司。毗亮朕躬，而以年尊致仕。
虽优游无为，可以颐神，而虚心之望，能不怃然！
其因光禄之号，改假金紫，置官骑十人，赐钱五十万，禄赐班礼，一如三司，门施行马。
初，憙为仆射时，凉州虏寇边，憙唱义遣军讨之。
朝士谓出兵不易，虏未足为患，竟不从之。
后虏果大纵逸，凉州覆没，朝廷深悔焉。
以憙清素贫俭，赐绢百匹。
及齐王攸出镇，憙上疏谏争，辞甚恳切。
憙自历仕，虽清非异众，而家无储积，亲旧故人乃至分衣共食，未尝私以王官。
及卒，追赠太保，谥曰成。
子赞嗣。
少子俭，字仲约，历左积弩将军、屯骑校尉。
俭子弘字世彦，少有清节，永嘉末，历给事黄门侍郎、散骑常侍。
刘寔，字子真，平原高唐人也。
汉济北惠王寿之后也，父广，斥丘令。
寔少贫苦，卖牛衣以自给。
然好学，手约绳，口诵书，博通古今。
清身洁己，行无瑕玷。
郡察孝廉，州举秀才，皆不行。
以计吏入洛，调为河南尹丞，迁尚书郎、廷尉正。
后历吏部郎，参文帝相国军事，封循阳子。
钟会、邓艾之伐蜀也，有客问寔曰： 二将其平蜀乎？
寔曰： 破蜀必矣，而皆不还。
客问其故，笑而不答，竟如其言。
寔之先见，皆此类也。
以世多进趣，廉逊道阙，乃著《崇让论》以矫之。
translation: 
That year, the crown prince was established and Li Fan was appointed crown prince and tutor.
Since Emperor Wei Ming, Shu Palace has been empty for a long time, the system is desolate and defective, and the officials are incomplete. There are no official positions such as Zhan Shi, Zuo Sui, Shuzi, Zhong Sheren, etc., only Wei Sui is set up to be in charge of the army, and the Taifu and Shaofu jointly act as agents.
Li Yi has been in office for many years, teaching Daoyi and planning with all his heart.
He was moved to the post of Minister Pushe, and was awarded the title of Tejin and Guanglu. He abdicated due to old age.
Shao Shu said: Dr. Guanglu, Tejin Li Yi, relied on virtue to promote morality, and should be an official in Taisi to assist the Guangda royal family. However, he resigned from his official position because of his old age.
Although leisurely and inactive can rest your mind, how can you not be moved by your humility and fame?
Following the title of Guanglu, he was instead awarded fake gold and purple, appointed ten officers and cavalry, and was given five hundred thousand in money. The salary and rewards were graded and etiquette. They were the same as those of the three divisions. A wooden gate with antlers was set up in front of the door.
At the beginning, when Li Gu was serving as Pushe, enemies from Liangzhou invaded the border, and Li Yi advocated raising troops to attack them.
Imperial officials believed that it was not easy to send troops and that the enemy was not enough to cause disaster, so they ultimately refused to listen to Li's wishes.
Later, the enemy turned out to be extremely reckless and Liangzhou was destroyed. The court deeply regretted it.
Because Li Fan was honest, simple and frugal, he was given a hundred pieces of silk.
When Sima You, the king of Qi, went out to guard, Li De was very sincere in admonishing Jing.
Since Li Yi became an official, although he was not unusually clean, his family had no savings and he even shared food and clothing with his relatives and friends. He never used his status as a court official for personal gain.
After his death, he gave posthumous gifts to the Taibao, and the title of Mi was established.
He was succeeded by his son Li Zan.
The youngest son Li Jian, also known as Zhongyue, served successively as General Zuo Jinu and Tunqi Colonel.
Li Jian's son, Li Hong, also known as Shiyan, had an upright character when he was young. In the last years of Yongjia, he served successively as the minister of Huangmen and the regular minister of Sanqi.
Liu Zizhen was born in Gaotang, Pingyuan.
He is a descendant of Liu Shou, King Hui of Jibei in the Han Dynasty. His father, Liu Guang, was Kuqiu Ling.
Liu Yi was poor when he was young and relied on selling cow clothes to support himself.
However, he is eager to learn, his hands are wrapped with ropes, and he is reciting poems and books. He is knowledgeable about ancient and modern times.
His own moral character is clean and his conduct is flawless.
The county officials visited Xiaolian, and the prefectures recommended scholars, but they didn't go.
He entered Luoyang as an accounting official, was transferred to Yin Cheng of Henan, and was transferred to Shangshu Lang and Ting Weizheng.
Later, he successively served as a minister of official affairs, participated in the military affairs of Emperor Wen's prime minister, and was named Xunyangzi.
When Zhong Hui and Deng Ai were attacking Shu, a guest asked Liu Gong: Can these two generals pacify Shu?
Liu Gong said: We will definitely defeat Shu, but we will not be able to come back.
When the guest asked the reason, he smiled and said nothing, and the outcome was just as Liu Xi said.
Liu Ku's foresight is similar to this.
Because there is too much enterprising and competition in the world, and the moral character of integrity and humility is defective, he wrote "On Chong Rang Lun" to correct the world's customs.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
其辞曰：古之圣王之化天下，所以贵让者，欲以出贤才，息争竞也。
夫人情莫不欲已之贤也，故劝令让贤以自明贤也，岂假让不贤哉！
故让道兴，贤能之人不求而自出矣，至公之举自立矣，百官之副亦豫具矣。
一官缺，择众官所让最多者而用之，审之道也。
在朝之士相让于上，草庐之人咸皆化之，推贤让能之风从此生矣。
为一国所让，则一国士也；天下所共推，则天下士也。
推让之风行，则贤与不肖灼然殊矣。
此道之行，在上者无所用其心，因成清议，随之而已。
故曰，荡荡乎尧之为君，莫之能名。
言天下自安矣，不见尧所以化之，故不能名也。
又曰，舜禹之有天下而不与焉，无为而化者其舜也欤。
贤人相让于朝，大才之人恆在大官，小人不争于野，天下无事矣。
以贤才化无事，至道兴矣。
已仰其成，复何与焉！
故可以歌《南风》之诗，弹五弦之琴也。
成此功者非有他，崇让之所致耳。
孔子曰，能以礼让为国，则不难也。
在朝之人不务相让久矣，天下化之。
自魏代以来，登进辟命之士，及在职之吏，临见受叙，虽自辞不能，终莫肯让有胜己者。
夫推让之风息，争竞之心生。
孔子曰，上兴让则下不争，明让不兴下必争也。
推让之道兴，则贤能之人日见推举；争竞之心生，则贤能之人日见谤毁。
夫争者之欲自先，甚恶能者之先，不能无毁也。
故孔墨不能免世之谤己，况不及孔墨者乎！
议者佥然言，世少高名之才，朝廷不有大才之人可以为大官者。
山泽人小官吏亦复云，朝廷之士虽有大官名德，皆不及往时人也。
余以为此二言皆失之矣。
非时独乏贤也，时不贵让。
一人有先众之誉，毁必随之，名不得成使之然也。
虽令稷契复存，亦不复能全其名矣。
translation: 
The article said: The reason why ancient sage kings advocated humility when educating the world was because they wanted to discover talents and calm competition.
It is human nature not to want to be virtuous, so we can show our virtuousness by admonishing the good and letting the virtuous. Is there anyone who can show that they are not virtuous by being humble?
Therefore, when the virtue of humility flourishes, virtuous people will appear on their own without searching, most just actions will be carried out by themselves, and the help of hundreds of officials will be prepared in advance.
When an official position is vacant, it is prudent to appoint the person who has been recommended by the officials the most.
The officials of the imperial court were humble in front of the emperor, and the common people were educated and imitated it. From then on, the custom of recommending the virtuous and giving way to the virtuous was born.
If the people of a country recommend him, he is a capable person in the country; if everyone in the world recommends him, he is a capable person in the world.
If the culture of giving in and giving away prevails, then the virtuous and the unworthy will be clearly defined.
This kind of habit is prevalent, and people in high positions don't need to worry about it, because there is fair discussion and they can just listen.
Therefore, it is said that Yao was so great as a king that words cannot praise him.
It is said that the world has become stable on its own. I have not seen how Yao taught it, so it cannot be described in words.
He also said that Shun and Yu owned the world without taking it as their own, and the person who could achieve enlightenment without seeking to achieve anything was probably Shun.
If wise men show humility to each other in the court, talented people always occupy high positions, and common people do not compete with each other among the people, then the world will be at peace.
Use talented people to educate the idle people, and the best way will arise.
All you have to do is wait for success, why do you need to get involved?
So I can sing the poem "South Wind" and play the banjo.
Achieving this kind of achievement does not depend on anything else, but is caused by advocating humility.
Confucius said that if you can govern a country with etiquette and humility, it will not be difficult.
People in the imperial court have not been committed to humility for a long time, and the world has changed because of it.
Since the Wei Dynasty, people who were recruited to serve as officials, as well as those who were in office, said that they were incompetent when they were assigned official positions, but in the end no one was willing to give up their position to someone who was better than themselves.
The spirit of giving in and giving away disappears, and the spirit of competition arises.
Confucius said that those in higher positions advocate giving and giving, while those below will not fight for it, which means that if humility is not popular, those below will definitely fight for it.
When the spirit of giving and giving arises, talented people are promoted every day; when the spirit of competition arises, talented people are vilified every day.
Competitive people want to be first, and they hate the virtuous who get the upper hand, so they have to slander them.
Therefore, Confucius and Mozi could not avoid being slandered by the world, let alone those who were inferior to Confucius and Mozi!
Those who discussed it all said that there are few talented people with high reputations in the world, and there is no one with great talents who can be a high official in the court.
Common people and petty officials also said that although the people in the imperial court had high official reputations, they were not as good as those in the past.
I think both views are wrong.
It’s not that there is a lack of talent today, it’s that humility is not valued.
When a person has a reputation that exceeds that of others, slander will inevitably follow. This is caused by the inability to preserve his reputation.
Even if Ji and Qi come to the world again, their reputations cannot be preserved.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
能否混杂，优劣不分，士无素定之价，官职有缺，主选之吏不知所用，但案官次而举之。
同才之人先用者，非势家之子，则必为有势者之所念也。
非能独贤，因其先用之资，而复迁之无已。
迁之无已，不胜其任之病发矣。
观在官之人，政绩无闻，自非势家之子，率多因资次而进也。
向令天下贵让，士必由于见让而后名成，名成而官乃得用之。
诸名行不立之人，在官无政绩之称，让之者必矣，官无因得而用之也。
所以见用不息者，由让道废，因资用人之有失久矣。
故自汉魏以来，时开大举，令众官各举所知，唯才所任，不限阶次，如此者甚数矣。
其所举必有当者，不闻时有擢用，不知何谁最贤故也。
所举必有不当，而罪不加，不知何谁最不肖也。
所以不可得知，由当时之人莫肯相推，贤愚之名不别，令其如此。
举者知在上者察不能审，故敢漫举而进之。
或举所贤，因及所念，一顿而至，人数猥多，各言所举者贤，加之高状，相似如一，难得而分矣。
参错相乱，真伪同贯，更复由此而甚。
虽举者不能尽忠之罪，亦由上开听察之路滥，令其尔也。
昔齐王好听竽声，必令三百人合吹而后听之，廪以数人之俸。
南郭先生不知吹竽者也，以三百人合吹可以容其不知，因请为王吹竽，虚食数人之俸。
嗣王觉而改之，难彰先王之过。
乃下令曰： 吾之好闻竽声有甚于先王，欲一一列而听之。
先生于此逃矣。
推贤之风不立，滥举之法不改，则南郭先生之徒盈于朝矣。
才高守道之士日退，驰走有势之门日多矣。
虽国有典刑，弗能禁矣。
夫让道不兴之弊，非徒贤人在下位，不得时进也，国之良臣荷重任者，亦将以渐受罪退矣。
translation: 
The virtuous and mediocre are mixed together, the good and the bad are not distinguished, people do not always have a certain evaluation, there are vacancies in official positions, and the person who presides over the selection does not know who to use, but only recommends according to the order of official positions.
Among people with equal talents, those who are appointed first are either the children of powerful people, or they must be those who are remembered by powerful people.
It cannot only be based on a person's merit, but because of the capital he was first appointed, and then he was continuously promoted.
As you continue to be promoted, the problem of incompetence appears.
When looking at people in official positions, I don't hear much about their political achievements. I am not a child of a powerful family. They are usually promoted because of their seniority.
If the world advocates humility, a scholar will become famous because he is recommended. Only when he has a reputation can the government appoint him.
Those whose reputations and deeds have not been established and who do not have the reputation of political achievements in official positions must of course give way to others. The government has no reason to appoint them.
The reason why they are constantly being appointed is because the virtue of humility has become obsolete and the history of employing people based on their qualifications has been very long.
Therefore, since the Han and Wei Dynasties, large-scale recommendation activities have often been held, allowing officials to recommend people they know, and appoint them based only on their talents, regardless of official rank. This has happened many times.
The people they recommend must be suitable. I have never heard of people being promoted and appointed from time to time. That is because they don't know who is the most talented.
There must be some unsuitable people among those recommended, but if we don't accuse them, it's because we don't know who is the least virtuous.
The reason I don't know is that people at that time were not willing to give in to each other, and there was no distinction between the virtuous and the ignorant, which resulted in the above situation.
People who recommend others know that those in high positions cannot scrutinize carefully, so they dare to promote others casually.
When some people are recommending talents, because they involve people they like, they come one after another, and there are a large number of people. They each say that the person they recommend is worthy, and use exaggerated words to describe it. The recommended people seem to be the same, and it is difficult to distinguish them.
The confusion and confusion of authenticity and falsehood make it even more serious.
Although the recommender is accused of being unable to be loyal, this situation was caused because the superiors opened too many channels to listen to the recommendation and inspect talents.
In the past, King Xuan of Qi loved to listen to the sound of the Yu. He would only listen to the sound of three hundred people playing the Yu, and gave each Yu player a salary of several people.
Mr. Nan Guo could not play the Yu, but three hundred people could play the Yu together to accommodate him, so he asked to play the Yu for the king and enjoy the salary of several people in vain.
King Qi Min woke up and changed his approach, but it was still difficult to show the fault of the previous king.
So he ordered: "I like to listen to the sound of Yu more than the previous king, and I want them to play it to me one after another."
Mr. Nan Guo then ran away.
If the culture of recommending virtuous people is not established and the methods of abuse are not changed, then people like Mr. Nan Guo will flood the court.
The number of people who are talented and uphold the Tao gradually decreases, and the number of powerful families fighting for power gradually increases.
Even if the country has regulations and criminal laws, they cannot prohibit it.
The disadvantage of the inability to practice humility is not only that wise men are in a low position and cannot be promoted on time, but also good ministers of the country who bear important responsibilities will gradually be blamed and withdraw from official positions.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
何以知其然也？
孔子以为颜氏之子不贰过耳，明非圣人皆有过。
宠贵之地欲之者多矣，恶贤能者塞其路，其过而毁之者亦多矣。
夫谤毁之生，非徒空设，必因人之微过而甚之者也。
毁谤之言数闻，在上者虽欲弗纳，不能不杖所闻，因事之来而微察之也，无以，其验至矣。
得其验，安得不理其罪。
若知而纵之，王之威日衰，令之不行自此始矣。
知而皆理之，受罪退者稍多，大臣有不自固之心。
夫贤才不进，贵臣日疏，此有国者之深忧也。
《诗》曰： 受禄不让，至于已斯亡。
不让之人忧亡不暇，而望其益国朝，不亦难乎！
窃以为改此俗甚易耳。
何以知之？夫一时在官之人，虽杂有凡猥之才，其中贤明者亦多矣，岂可谓皆不知让贤为贵邪！
直以其时皆不让，习以成俗，故遂不为耳。
人臣初除，皆通表上闻，名之谢章，所由来尚矣。
原谢章之本意，欲进贤能以谢国恩也。
昔舜以禹为司空，禹拜稽首，让于稷契及咎繇。
使益为虞官，让于硃虎、熊、罴。
使伯夷典三礼，让于夔龙。
唐虞之时，众官初除，莫不皆让也。
谢章之义，盖取于此。
《书》记之者，欲以永世作则。
季世所用，不贤不能让贤，虚谢见用之恩而已。
相承不变，习俗之失也。
夫叙用之官得通章表者，其让贤推能乃通，其不能有所让徒费简纸者，皆绝不通。
人臣初除，各思推贤能而让之矣，让之文付主者掌之。
三司有缺，择三司所让最多者而用之。
此为一公缺，三公已豫选之矣。
且主选之吏，不必任公而选三公，不如令三公自共选一公为详也。
四征缺，择四征所让最多而用之，此为一征缺，四征已豫选之矣，必详于停缺而令主者选四征也。
尚书缺，择尚书所让最多者而用之，此为八尚书共选一尚书，详于临缺令主者选八尚书也。
郡守缺，择众郡所让最多者而用之，详于任主者令选百郡守也。
夫以众官百郡之让，与主者共相比，不可同岁而论也。
虽复令三府参举官，本不委以举选之任，各不能以根其心也。
其所用心者裁之不二三，但令主者案官次而举之，不用精也。
translation: 
How can we know this is the case?
Confucius believed that Yan's sons did not repeat the same mistake, which shows that everyone, not a saint, can make mistakes.
There are more people who want to get favored and noble status, but they hate worthy people standing in their way, so there are more people who slander others when they make mistakes.
Slander and slander do not arise out of thin air. They must be exaggerated through other people's minor faults.
I heard the slanderous words many times. Although people in high positions didn't want to believe it, they had to carefully observe the development of the matter based on what they heard. It didn't take long for the slanderous words to come true.
With verification, how can the crime not be punished?
If you know it but indulge it, the emperor's prestige will gradually decline, and the order will not be implemented and it will start from now on.
When they found out, they all were punished, and the number of people who were blamed and abdicated gradually increased, and the ministers felt that they were not safe.
Talented people cannot be promoted, and important ministers are often alienated. This is a deep concern for those who rule the country.
"The Book of Songs" says: Receiving honors and promotions without giving in will lead to one's own destruction.
Those who are not humble worry that it will be too late to perish, but hope that they will benefit the country and the court. Isn’t it too difficult?
I personally think it is not difficult to change this bad custom. How to know?
Although there are some mediocre people in official positions, there are also many wise people among them. Don’t you know that giving way to the wise is a noble virtue?
Just because I didn't let it go at the time, it became a habit, so I stopped doing it.
When ministers are first conferred a position, they all present it to their superiors, which is called a seal of thanks. This practice has a long history.
It turns out that Xie Zhang's original intention was to recommend talented people to express gratitude to the country.
In the past, Shun appointed Yu as Sikong. Yu knelt down and bowed down, giving way to Ji Qi and Jiu Yao.
Let Yi be appointed as the official of Yu. Give way to Zhu Hu, Bear, Bear.
Let Boyi be in charge of the three rites and give way to Kuilong.
During the Tang and Yu eras, all officials were dissatisfied when they first received their official positions.
The original meaning of Xie Zhang probably comes from this.
"Shangshu" records these things to serve as a model for generations to come.
In the last days, unworthy people cannot be used in favor of virtuous people. They are just pretending to be grateful for the grace of being appointed.
Such inheritance remains unchanged, which is a mistake of custom.
Recruited officials should be notified of the official status, and only those who are qualified should be reported to the top. Those who are recommended and wasted on the paper should not be reported to the top.
When the ministers were first appointed, they each wanted to recommend the worthy and give way to others, and the words of the recommendation were left to the person in charge.
When there is a vacancy in the Third Division, the person who has been recommended the most by the Third Division will be selected and appointed.
There is a shortage of members for the first official, and the third official has been selected in advance.
Besides, the officials in charge of selecting people do not have to be in charge of selecting the three ministers. It is better to let the three ministers jointly select one minister.
If there is a vacancy in the four levies, the person who has been recommended the most by the four levies is selected and appointed. This is called a vacancy in the first levy. The four levies have been pre-selected, so the person in charge must be more careful in choosing than after there is a vacancy.
When there is a shortage of ministers, the person who has been recommended by the minister the most will be selected to be appointed. This is to select one minister together among eight ministers, which is more prudent than asking the person in charge to select eight ministers when there is a vacancy.
When there is a shortage of county guards, it is more prudent to select the person who has received the most recommendation from all the county guards and appoint him than to order the selection of hundreds of county guards by the person in charge.
Comparing the referrals of many officials and hundreds of counties with one person in charge is incomparable.
Even if the three government offices are allowed to participate in the selection of officials, the responsibility for selection was not given to the three government offices in the first place, so each of them cannot take this matter to heart.
The amount of thought they put into it was less than two-tenths of it. They just let the person in charge be promoted according to official rank without any detailed review.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
贤愚皆让，百姓耳目尽为国耳目。
夫人情争则欲毁己所不知，让则竞推于胜己。
故世争则毁誉交错，优劣不分，难得而让也。
时让则贤智显出，能否之美历历相次，不可得而乱也。
当此时也，能退身修已者，让之者多矣。
虽欲守贫贱，不可得也。
驰骛进趣而欲人见让，犹却行而求前也。
夫如此，愚智咸知进身求通，非修之于己则无由矣。
游外求者，于此相随而归矣。
浮声虚论，不禁而自息矣。
人人无所用其心，任众人之议，而天下自化矣。
不言之化行，巍巍之美于此著矣。
让可以致此，岂可不务之哉！
《春秋传》曰： 范宣子之让，其下皆让。
栾黡虽汰，弗敢违也。
晋国以平，数世赖之。
上世之化也，君子尚能而让其下，小人力农以事其上，上下有礼，谗慝远黜，由不争也。
及其乱也，国家之弊，恆必由之。
笃论了了如此。
在朝君子典选大官，能不以人废言，举而行之，各以让贤举能为先务，则群才猥出，能否殊别，盖世之功，莫大于此。
泰始初，进爵为伯，累迁少府。
咸宁中为太常。转尚书。
杜预之伐吴也，寔以本官行镇南军司。
初，寔妻卢氏生子跻而卒，华氏将以女妻之。
寔弟智谏曰： 华家类贪，必破门户。
辞之不得，竟婚华氏而生子夏。
寔竟坐夏受赂，免官。
顷之为大司农，又以夏罪免。
寔每还州里，乡人载酒肉以候之。
寔难逆其意，辄共啖而返其余。
或谓寔曰： 君行高一世，而诸子不能遵。
何不旦夕切磋，使知过而自改邪！
translation: 
If both the wise and the dull can be humble, then the eyes and ears of the people will be the eyes and ears of the state.
Human nature is to compete, and they want to slander those who are better than themselves, while humility means striving to promote those who are better than themselves.
Therefore, in the world of competition, there is a mixture of slander and praise, and there is no distinction between good and bad, so it is difficult to be humble.
If the world is modest, the virtuous and wise will stand out, and the virtuous and the unworthy will be clearly visible and hierarchical, without confusion.
At this time, those who can withdraw from officialdom and cultivate themselves will be favored by many people.
Even if you want to live in poverty, it is impossible.
Competing desperately while trying to be humble is like walking backward while trying to move forward.
Like this, both fools and wise men know that if they want to be officials and seek enlightenment, there is no other way if they don't cultivate themselves.
People who traveled abroad to seek official positions followed them back to their hometowns at this time.
Flashy and empty remarks will naturally subside without prohibition.
Everyone does not need to use scheming, just let everyone talk about it, and the world will naturally be enlightened.
Education without preaching became popular, and the most beautiful politics were revealed from then on.
Humility can create such a scene, how can we not practice it diligently!
"Spring and Autumn Annals" says: Fan Xuanzi was humble, and everyone under him was humble.
Although Le Cheng was bossy, he did not dare to disobey.
As a result, the Jin state was united and benefited for generations.
According to ancient teachings, a gentleman respects the virtuous and is humble to his subordinates, a villain works hard at farming to serve his superiors, and is polite to both superiors and subordinates, and evil people are alienated and deposed, all because there is no competition.
When there is turmoil in the last days, the country's ills are often caused by a lack of humility.
These are the discussions that come from the heart.
If the gentlemen in the court and the high officials in charge of selecting talents can not let others talk nonsense and carry out this way, and each of them will consider the promotion of talents as the first thing to do, then many talents will emerge, the virtuous and the unworthy can be clearly distinguished, and there is no greater achievement than that of the world.
In the early years, he was promoted to the title of Bo, and gradually to the rank of Shaofu.
During his tenure as Taichang, he was transferred to Shangshu.
When Zhu Yong attacked and submitted, Liu Gong served as his own official and also served as the Zhennan Military Division.
At first, Liu Gong's wife Lu died after giving birth to her son Liu Ji, and Liu Gong was about to marry her daughter off.
He advised him: Most people are greedy and will surely ruin their families.
Liu Sai couldn't refuse, and finally got married and gave birth to his son Liu Xia.
Liu Gong was finally convicted of Xingxia's bribery and was dismissed from office.
Soon he was appointed as Chief Agriculture Officer, and was dismissed from office because of Liu Xia's crimes.
Every time he returned to his hometown, the villagers would wait for him with wine and meat in their cars.
It was difficult for Xingsai to go against everyone's will, so he ate and drank with everyone and then returned the remaining food.
Someone wrote to Liu and said: Your conduct has been noble throughout your life, but your sons cannot follow it.
Why not teach them every day so that they know their mistakes and correct themselves!


Chunk 9: 
original: 
寔曰： 吾之所行，是所闻见，不相祖习，岂复教诲之所得乎！
世以寔言为当。
后起为国子祭酒、散骑常侍。
愍怀太子初封广陵王，高选师友，以寔为师。
元康初，进爵为侯，累迁太子太保，加侍中、特进、右光禄大夫、开府仪同三司，领冀州都督。
九年，策拜司空，迁太保，转太傅。
太安初，寔以老病逊位，赐安车驷马、钱百万，以侯就第。
及长沙成都之相攻也，寔为军人所掠，潜归乡里。
惠帝崩，寔赴山陵。
怀帝即位，复授太尉。
寔自陈年老，固辞，不许。
左丞刘坦上言曰： 夫堂高级远，主尊相贵。
是以古之哲王莫不师其元臣，崇养老之教，训示四海，使少长有礼。
七十致仕，亦所以优异旧德，厉廉高之风。
太尉寔体清素之操，执不渝之洁，悬车告老，二十余年，浩然之志，老而弥笃。
可谓国之硕老，邦之宗模。
臣闻老者不以筋力为礼，寔年逾九十，命在日制，遂自扶舆，冒险而至，展哀山陵，致敬阙庭，大臣之节备矣。
圣诏殷勤，必使寔正位上台，光饪鼎实，断章敦喻，经涉二年。
而寔频上露板，辞旨恳诚。
臣以为古之养老，以不事为优，不以吏之为重，谓宜听寔所守。
三年，诏曰： 昔虞任五臣，致垂拱之化，汉相萧何，兴宁一之誉，故能光隆于当时，垂裕于百代。
朕绍天明命，临御万邦，所以崇显政道者，亦赖之于元臣庶尹，毕力股肱，以副至望。
而君年耆告老，确然难违。
今听君以侯就第，位居三司之上，秩禄准旧，赐几杖不朝及宅一区。
国之大政，将就谘于君，副朕意焉。
translation: 
Liu Sai said: What I do is what I hear and see, not what is passed down from generation to generation. Can it be obtained by repeated teachings?
The world thinks what Liu wrote makes sense.
Later, he was appointed as the minister of wine for the prince of the country and the regular attendant of the casual knights.
When Prince Minhuai was first crowned King of Guangling, he selected his mentors and appointed Liu Qu as his mentor.
In the early years of Yuankang, he was promoted to the title of Marquis, and gradually moved to the position of Taibao of the Crown Prince. He was also appointed as Shizhong, Tejin, Youguanglu Doctor, Kaifu Yitong, and the Governor of Jizhou.
In the ninth year of Yuankang, Ce was granted the title of Sikong, moved to the post of Taibao, and then became Taifu.
In the early years of Tai'an, Liu Shui resigned from office because of old age and illness. He was given a carriage, horses, and millions of money to return to his mansion as a marquis.
When the king of Changsha and the king of Chengdu attacked each other, Liu Qu was robbed by the soldiers and secretly returned to his hometown.
When Emperor Hui died, Liu Gong went to the mausoleum.
Emperor Huai ascended the throne and granted him the title of Taiwei.
Liu wrote that he was old and refused firmly, and was not allowed.
Liu Tan, Zuocheng, said: If the hall is high, the steps will be far away; if the monarch is respected, the prime minister will be noble.
Therefore, all the ancient sage emperors took senior ministers as their teachers, so they respected the teachings of caring for the elderly and taught them all over the world, so that the young and the elders should be polite.
Resigning at seventy is also a special treatment for past virtues and encourages an honest and noble style.
Taiwei Liu Yi has been retired for more than 20 years with his honest and simple integrity and unchanging nobility. His upright ambitions have become stronger with age.
It can be said that he is a highly respected person in the country and a role model for the country.
I heard that the elderly don't have to use their strength to comply with the etiquette. Liu Ku was ninety years old and his life span was limited by time. So he took the car even though he was sick and took risks to travel. He showed his sorrow in the imperial mausoleum and paid tribute to the court. The integrity of the minister was complete.
The Holy Emperor's edict was sincere, and it would definitely make Liu Yao ascend to the throne of Tai Province and assist the emperor's career. He excerpted the edict in fragments and urged him to serve for two years.
However, Liu wrote several public letters and spoke sincerely.
I think the ancients regarded it as a priority to serve as an official without disturbing the emperor in caring for the elderly, and regarded not granting officials to the elderly as a sign of respect. We should listen to Liu Ku's opinion.
In the third year, the edict said: In the past, Yu appointed five ministers and achieved the enlightenment of governing by doing nothing. The Han Dynasty made Xiao He the prime minister and gained the reputation of stability and unity, so it was able to prosper at that time and pass on its achievements to future generations.
I inherit the destiny and rule all nations. If I want to have great political ethics, I also rely on the elders, ministers and officials to do their best to assist me in order to meet my greatest wish.
However, it is difficult for you to disobey it as you grow old.
Now Renjun returns to the mansion as a marquis, his status is above the three divisions, his salary remains the same, and he is given a cane for several cases without having to go to court and the first residence in the mansion.
I will come to consult you on major government affairs of the country and express my opinion.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
岁余薨，时年九十一，谥曰元。
寔少贫窭，杖策徒行，每所憩止，不累主人，薪水之事，皆自营给。
及位望通显，每崇俭素，不尚华丽。
尝诣石崇家，如厕，见有绛纹帐，裀褥甚丽，两婢持香囊。
寔便退，笑谓崇曰： 误入卿内。
崇曰： 是厕耳。
寔曰： 贫士未尝得此。
乃更如他厕。
虽处荣宠，居无第宅，所得俸禄，赡恤亲故。
虽礼教陵迟，而行己以正。
丧妻为庐杖之制，终丧不御内。
轻薄者笑之，寔不以介意。
自少及老，笃学不倦，虽居职务，卷弗离手。
尤精《三传》，辨正《公羊》，以为卫辄不应辞以王父命，祭仲失为臣之节，举此二端以明臣子之体，遂行于世。
又撰《春秋条例》二十卷。
有二子，跻、夏。
跻字景云，官至散骑常侍。
夏以贪污弃放于世。
弟智，字子房，贞素有兄风。
少贫窭，每负薪自给，读诵不辍，竟以儒行称。
历中书黄门吏部郎，出为颍川太守。
平原管辂尝谓人曰： 吾与刘颍川兄弟语，使人神思清发，昏不假寐。
自此之外，殆白日欲寝矣。
入为秘书监，领南阳王师，加散骑常侍，迁侍中、尚书、太常。
著《丧服释疑论》，多所辨明。
太康末卒，谥曰成。
高光，字宣茂，陈留圉城人，魏太尉柔之子也。
光少习家业，明练刑理。
初以太子舍人累迁尚书郎，出为幽州刺史、颍州太守。
是时武帝置黄沙狱，以典诏囚。
以光历世明法，用为黄沙御史，秩与中丞同，迁廷尉。
元康中，拜尚书，典三公曹。
translation: 
He died more than a year later at the age of ninety-one. His nickname was Wu.
Liu wrote that he was poor when he was young and walked on foot with a stick. Whenever he came to a resting place, he did not disturb the owner and took care of things such as firewood and water by himself.
When one reaches a prominent position and fame, he will always advocate frugality and simplicity and not pursue magnificence.
I once went to Shi Chong's house and went to the toilet. I saw a dark red patterned tent, gorgeous mattresses, and two slaves holding sachets.
Liu Gong then withdrew and said to Shi Chong with a smile: "I entered your inner room by mistake."
Shi Chong said: That is the toilet.
Liu Gong said: I, a poor person, have never enjoyed it.
So I went to another toilet.
Although Liu Xiu was in a position of honor and favor, he did not have a mansion to live in. The salary he received was used to support and help relatives.
Although etiquette declined, he himself acted in the right way.
When his wife died, the funeral was held according to the Juzhang residence system, and he did not sleep with the woman until the funeral was over.
Liu Gong didn't mind if frivolous people laughed at him.
From childhood to old age, he was eager to learn and never let go of books. Even when he became an official, he never left his hands.
He was especially proficient in the "Three Biography" and corrected the "Gongyang Zhuan". He believed that Wei Zuo should not disobey his grandfather's orders, and that sacrificing Zhong was against the integrity of a minister. He cited these two things to illustrate the etiquette of a minister, so his views became popular in the world.
He also wrote twenty volumes of "Spring and Autumn Regulations".
He has two sons, Liu Ji and Liu Xia.
Liu Ji's courtesy name was Jingyun, and his official position was to serve as a regular attendant on casual riding.
Liu Xia was abandoned by the world because of corruption.
Liu Zhi's younger brother Liu Zhi, whose courtesy name is Zifang, is chaste, simple and like an elder brother.
When he was young, his family was poor, so he often carried firewood to support himself, and he never stopped reading books. In the end, he was praised for his conduct as a Confucian scholar.
He successively served as the official of Zhongshu Huangmen and the prefect of Yingchuan.
The Pingyuan people once said to people: My conversation with brother Liu Yingchuan made people feel refreshed and inspired, and I did not doze off even after dark.
Outside of talking time, I might also want to sleep during the day.
After entering the imperial court, he served as Secretary Supervisor and concurrently as Nanyang King's Master. He was also appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi, and then moved to serve as Shizhong, Shangshu and Taichang.
The author of "An Explanation of Doubts on Mourning Clothes" contains many points of analysis and explanation.
Taikang died in the last years of his life, and his nickname was Cheng.
Gao Guang, courtesy name Xuan Mao, was born in Chenliuyu City and was the son of Wei Taiwei Gao Rou.
Gao Guang was familiar with family business and criminal law theory when he was young.
Initially, he was gradually moved from Prince Sheren to Shangshu Lang, and became the governor of Youzhou and the prefect of Yingchuan.
At that time, Emperor Wu set up Huangsha Prison and used legal codes to admonish the prisoners.
Because Gao Guang had known the law in the past dynasties, he was appointed Huangsha Yushi, with the same salary as Zhongcheng. Moved to Tingwei.
During the Yuankang period, the official worship was Shangshu, who was in charge of Sangongcao.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
时赵王伦篡逆，光于其际，守道全贞。
及伦赐死，齐王冏辅政，复以光为廷尉，迁尚书，加奉车都尉。
后从驾讨成都王颖有勋，封延陵县公，邑千八百户。
于时朝廷咸推光明于用法，故频典理官。
惠帝为张方所逼，幸长安，朝臣奔散，莫有从者，光独侍帝而西。
迁尚书左仆射，加散骑常侍。
光兄诞为上官巳等所用，历徐、雍二州刺史。
诞性任放无伦次，而决烈过人，与光异操。
常谓光小节，恆轻侮之，光事诞愈谨。
帝既还洛阳，时太弟新立，重选傅训，以光为少傅，加光禄大夫，常侍如故。
及怀帝即位，加光禄大夫金章紫绶，与傅祗并见推崇。
寻为尚书令，本官如故。
以疾卒，赠司空、侍中。
属京洛倾覆，竟未加谥。
子韬字子远，放佚无检。
光为廷尉时，韬受货赇，有司奏案之，而光不知。
时人虽非光不能防闲其子，以其用心有素，不以为累。
初，光诣长安留台，以韬兼右卫将军。
韬与殿省小人交通，及光卒，仍于丧中往来不绝。
时东海王越辅政，不朝观。
韬知人心有望，密与太傅参军姜赜、京兆杜概等谋讨越，事泄伏诛。
史臣曰：下士竞而文，中庸静而质，不若进不足而退有余也。
魏舒、刘寔发虑精华，结绶登槐，览止成务。
季和切问近对，当官正色。
诗云 贪人败类 ，岂刘夏之谓欤！
赞曰：舒言不矜，憙对千乘。
子真、宣茂，雅志难陵。
进忠能举，退让攸兴。
皎皎瑚器，来光玉绳。
translation: 
At that time, King Zhao Sima Lun usurped power and rebelled. During that time, Gao Guang stayed true to the right path and maintained his integrity.
After Sima Lun was sentenced to death, King Sima Tong of Qi assisted in the government affairs. He also appointed Gao Guang as Tingwei, moved to Shangshu, and was appointed as Fengche Duwei.
Later, he followed the emperor to defeat Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, and was granted the title of Duke of Yanling County, granting 1,800 households.
At that time, the imperial court praised Gao Guang for being good at using law, so he served as a legal official many times.
Emperor Hui was forced by Zhang Fang to go to Chang'an. The ministers of the court were scattered and had no followers. Only Gao Guang served the emperor on his journey westward.
He was moved to the post of Minister Zuopushe and appointed as the regular attendant of Sanqi.
Gao Guang's elder brother Gao Dan was appointed by Shangguan Si and others, and served as governor of Tu and Yu prefectures.
His direct sexual indulgence has no rules, but his decisiveness and firmness are beyond ordinary people, which is different from Gao Guang's character.
Gao Dan often said that Zhi Guang was stuck in small details and always bullied him. Gao Guang treated Gao Dan more respectfully.
After the emperor returned to the stolen house, the emperor's younger brother had just been established. He carefully selected assistant talents, appointed Gao Guang as the young master, and appointed him as the doctor Guanglu. The position of permanent attendant remained the same.
When Emperor Huai came to the throne, he was awarded the gold medal and purple ribbon by Dr. Guanglu, and he was highly praised together with Fu Zhi.
Soon he was appointed minister, and his original official position remained.
He died of illness and was given posthumously to Sikong and Shizhong.
When Sero was overthrown, he was not given the title of Mi.
Zitao, whose courtesy name is Ziyuan, is indulgent and indiscreet.
When Zhili was appointed as Tingwei, Tao accepted bribes. The relevant officials reported this matter, but Gao Guang did not know about it.
Although people at the time criticized Gao Guang for not being able to guard against his son, because he was always attentive, he did not bother Gao Guang by doing anything.
At first, Gao Guang stayed in the government office in Chang'an and asked Gao Tao to serve as the right guard general.
Gao Tao colluded with the villains in the residence of the emperor and the ministers. When Gao Guang died, he was still in mourning and kept coming and going.
At that time, Sima Yue, King of Shuhai, assisted in government affairs and did not meet the emperor.
Gao Tao knew that people were complaining, so he secretly planned a crusade against Sima Yue with Taifu Jiang Ji, Jingzhao Du Ao and others. When the incident was revealed, he was killed.
Shi Chen said: It is better for people with lower talents to compete and have literary talents, and for people with medium talents to be quiet and simple.
Wei Shu and Liu Shi had the essence of their thinking. If they became officials, they would achieve great things.
Ji Su asked questions sincerely and answered truthfully, acting with dignity as an official.
Could it be that the "greedy and scumbag" in the poem is Liu Xia?
Praise said: Wei Shu's words are not arrogant, and Li Fu dares to go against the prince.
Zizhen and Xuanmao have noble aspirations and are difficult to bully.
Able to promote loyalty and good deeds, and to promote retreat.
The bright coral vessel shines like a jade rope star.


