Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 0, 1, 3, 4, 6, 7]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
裴邃，字渊明，河东闻喜人，魏襄州刺史绰之后也。
祖寿孙，寓居寿阳，为宋武帝前军长史。
父仲穆，骁骑将军。
邃十岁能属文，善《左氏春秋》。
齐建武初，刺史萧遥昌引为府主簿。
寿阳有八公山庙，遥昌为立碑，使邃为文，甚见称赏。
举秀才，对策高第，奉朝请。
东昏践阼，始安王萧遥光为抚军将军、扬州刺史，引邃为参军。
后遥光败，邃还寿阳，值刺史裴叔业以寿阳降魏，豫州豪族皆被驱掠，邃遂随众北徙。魏主宣武帝雅重之，以为司徒属，中书郎，魏郡太守。
魏遣王肃镇寿阳，邃固求随肃，密图南归。
天监初，自拔还朝，除后军谘议参军。
邃求边境自效，以为辅国将军、庐江太守。
时魏将吕颇率众五万奄来攻郡，邃率麾下拒破之，加右军将军。
五年，征邵阳洲，魏人为长桥断淮以济。
邃筑垒逼桥，每战辄克，于是密作没突舰。
会甚雨，淮水暴溢，邃乘舰径造桥侧，魏众惊溃，邃乘胜追击，大破之。
进克羊石城，斩城主元康。
又破霍丘城，斩城主甯永仁。
平小岘，攻合肥。
以功封夷陵县子，邑三百户。
迁冠军长史、广陵太守。
邃与乡人共入魏武庙，因论帝王功业。
其妻甥王篆之密启高祖，云 裴邃多大言，有不臣之迹。
由是左迁为始安太守。
邃志欲立功边陲，不愿闲远，乃致书于吕僧珍曰： 昔阮咸、颜延有 二始 之叹。吾才不逮古人，今为三始，非其愿也，将如之何！
未及至郡，会魏攻宿预，诏邃拒焉。
行次直渎，魏众退。
迁右军谘议参军、豫章王云麾府司马，率所领助守石头。
出为竟陵太守，开置屯田，公私便之。
迁为游击将军、硃衣直阁，直殿省。
寻迁假节、明威将军、西戎校尉、北梁、秦二州刺史。
复开创屯田数千顷，仓廪盈实，省息边运，民吏获安，乃相率饷绢千余匹。邃从容曰： 汝等不应尔；吾又不可逆。
纳其绢二匹而已。
还为给事中、云骑将军、硃衣直阁将军，迁大匠卿。
普通二年，义州刺史文僧明以州叛入于魏，魏军来援。
以邃为假节、信武将军，督众军讨焉。
邃深入魏境，从边城道，出其不意。魏所署义州刺史封寿据檀公岘，邃击破之，遂围其城，寿面缚请降，义州平。
除持节、督北徐州诸军事、信武将军、北徐州刺史。未之职，又迁督豫州、北豫、霍三州诸军事、豫州刺史，镇合肥。
四年，进号宣毅将军。
是岁，大军将北伐，以邃督征讨诸军事，率骑三千，先袭寿阳。
九月壬戌，夜至寿阳，攻其郛，斩关而入，一日战九合，为后军蔡秀成失道不至，邃以援绝拔还。
于是邃复整兵，收集士卒，令诸将各以服色相别。
邃自为黄袍骑，先攻狄丘、甓城、黎浆等城，皆拔之。
屠安成、马头、沙陵等戍。
是冬，始脩芍陂。
明年，复破魏新蔡郡，略地至于郑城，汝颍之间，所在响应。
translation: 
Pei Sui, named Yuanming, was born in Wenxi, Hedong. He was a descendant of Pei Chuo, the governor of Xiangzhou in the Wei Dynasty.
His grandfather, Pei Shousun, lived in Shouyang County and was the former army commander of Emperor Wu of the Song Dynasty.
His father's name was Pei Zhongmu, who served as a general of cavalry.
Pei Sui could write articles when he was ten years old, and was good at "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu".
In the early years of Jianwu in the Southern Qi Dynasty, Xiao Yaochang, the governor, recommended him to be the governor of the state government.
There is the Bagongshan Temple in Shouyang County. Xiao Yaochang erected a monument for it and asked Pei Sui to write the inscription. The inscription was highly praised and appreciated.
After Pei Sui passed the examination as a scholar, he ranked first in high school in the imperial examination and was appointed as a minister.
After Donghunhou came to the throne, Xiao Yaoguang, the king of Shi'an, was appointed as the general of Fujun and the governor of Yangzhou. He recommended Pei Sui to join the army.
Later, when Xiao Yaoguang was defeated, Pei Sui returned to Shouyang, and met the governor Pei Shuye who offered Shouyang to surrender to the Wei State. All the noble families in Yuzhou were expelled and plundered, so Pei Sui followed everyone and moved north. Emperor Xuanwu of the Wei State valued him very much and appointed him as Situ, Zhongshu Lang, and the prefect of Wei County.
The State of Wei sent Wang Su to guard Shouyang. Pei Sui firmly requested to follow Wang Su and secretly planned to return to the south.
In the early years of Tianjian, Pei Sui escaped from Wei and returned to the Southern Dynasty. He was appointed as a consultant to the rear army and joined the army.
Pei Sui himself asked to serve on the border, so he was appointed as the general of the auxiliary country and the governor of Lujiang County.
At that time, the Wei general Lu Po led an army of 50,000 troops to suddenly attack Lujiang County. Pei Sui led his men to resist and defeated the Wei army. Pei Sui was appointed as the general of the right army.
In the fifth year, during the expedition to Shaoyangzhou, the Wei army built a long bridge across the Huaihe River to meet the river.
Pei Sui built a fortress and pushed towards Long Bridge, winning every battle. Therefore, he secretly helped build ships without chimneys.
It was raining heavily and the water level of the Huaihe River surged. Pei Sui and his men took a ship and went straight to the long bridge. The Wei army was shocked and defeated. Pei Sui and others took advantage of the victory to pursue and defeated the Wei army.
Pei Sui then conquered Yangshi City and killed the city lord Yuan Kang.
He also captured Huoqiu City and beheaded the city lord Ning Yongren.
After that, Xiaoxian was pacified and Hefei was captured.
Pei Sui was granted the title of Son of Yiling County due to his meritorious service, and was granted the title of 300 households in the town.
He was moved to the post of Champion Changshi and Grand Administrator of Guangling County.
Pei Sui and his fellow villagers entered Wei Wu Temple and discussed the emperor's achievements.
His wife's nephew Wang Zhuanzhi secretly reported to Emperor Gaozu that Pei Sui had told many lies and showed signs of being disloyal to the monarch.
Therefore, Pei Sui was demoted and appointed as the governor of Shi'an County.
Pei Sui was determined to make meritorious service on the border and was unwilling to go to a place that was too quiet, so he wrote a letter to Lu Sengzhen saying: In the past, Ruan Xian and Yan Yan had the sigh of "Two Shi". My talents are not as good as those of the ancients. Now it is "Third Shi". This is not my wish. What should I do?
Before reaching Shi'an County, the Wei army happened to attack Suyu, and Emperor Shao ordered Pei Sui to go and resist the Wei army.
Pei Sui marched to Zhidu, and the Wei army retreated.
Pei Sui moved to the right army to consult and join the army, and was the Sima of Yunhui Mansion of King Yuzhang, and led his troops to help guard Stone City.
Later, he served as the governor of Tongling County. He cultivated and farmed fields, which was convenient for both the public and private parties.
He was also moved to the post of guerrilla general Zhu Yi Zhihe and was on duty in the palace province.
Soon, he was moved to the post of General Jiajie, Mingwei General, Xirong Xiaowei, and governor of Beiliang Prefecture and Qinzhou Prefecture.
He also created thousands of hectares of farmland and filled granaries with grain, which made it possible to save or stop transportation to the border, and both the army and the people were able to stabilize. So they sent more than a thousand pieces of silk one after another, and Pei Sui calmly said: "You shouldn't be like this, but I can't go against your wishes."
So, he only symbolically accepted two pieces of silk.
After returning to the court, he was appointed to Shizhong, General Yunqi, and General Zhu Yizhihe, and was moved to the rank of Great Craftsman.
In the second year of ordinary life, Yizhou governor Wen Seng Mingxian rebelled against Yizhou and defected to Wei, and the Wei army came to support him.
The emperor appointed Pei Sui as General Jiajie and Xinwu to lead the army to attack the Wei army.
Pei Sui penetrated deep into the territory of the Wei State and borrowed roads from the border towns to catch him by surprise. The Yizhou Governor Qian Zhou deployed by the Wei State occupied Shanggong Maggot. He defeated Lao Hua and then surrounded Fucheng. Feng Shou tied his hands behind his back and asked for surrender, and Yizhou was pacified.
Pei Sui was awarded the title of Controller, Supervisor of Military Affairs in Northern Xuzhou, General Xinwu, and Governor of Northern Xuzhou. Before he could take office, he was moved to Governor of Military Affairs of Yuzhou, Northern Yuzhou, and Huozhou, and Governor of Yuzhou, and was based in Hefei.
Four years later, Pei Suijin was awarded the title of General Xuanyi.
In the year of sending, the Liang Dynasty army was preparing for the Northern Expedition. Pei Sui was appointed as the governor to conquer various military forces. He led three thousand cavalry to attack Shouyang first.
In the ninth month of Renxu, the troops arrived in Shouyang overnight, attacked the outer city of Shouyang, killed the soldiers guarding the gate and entered the inner city. Xiang fought nine rounds in one day. Cai Xiucheng, the rear army, did not arrive in time because he was lost. Pei Sui withdrew and returned to the army because of the lack of support.
In Qianxiang, Pei Sui once again reorganized the army and gathered soldiers. Several generals were ordered to use different clothing colors to distinguish themselves from each other.
Pei Sui himself led the cavalry in yellow robes and attacked Diqiu, Zongcheng, Lijiang and other cities first, but they were all captured.
Ancheng, Matou, Shaling and other garrisons were massacred.
In the winter of the next year, construction of Shaopei began.
The next year, he captured Xincai County of Wei State and occupied the territory as far as Zhengcheng. People from Ru River and Ying River responded everywhere.
summary:
Pei Sui, styled Yuanming, was a native of Wenxi in Hedong and a descendant of Pei Chuo, a Wei Dynasty governor. His grandfather Pei Shousun served as a former army commander under Emperor Wu of the Song Dynasty, and his father Pei Zhongmu was a general of cavalry. Pei Sui could write essays by age ten and was skilled in the *Zuo Shi Chun Qiu*. During the early Jianwu era of the Southern Qi Dynasty, Governor Xiao Yaochang recommended him as a state government governor. Xiao erected a monument at Bagongshan Temple in Shouyang County and commissioned Pei Sui to write the inscription, which was highly praised. After passing the imperial examination with top honors, Pei Sui was appointed as a minister. When Donghunhou ascended the throne, Xiao Yaoguang, the King of Shi'an, recommended Pei Sui as an army adjutant. After Xiao Yaoguang's defeat, Pei Sui returned to Shouyang, where Governor Pei Shuye surrendered to the Wei State. Pei Sui was forced to move north, but Emperor Xuanwu of Wei valued him and appointed him as Situ, Zhongshu Lang, and Prefect of Wei County. Pei Sui secretly planned to return south and, during the early Tianjian era of the Liang Dynasty, escaped from Wei. He was appointed as a consultant to the rear army and later requested to serve on the border, becoming General of the Auxiliary Country and Governor of Lujiang County. When Wei General Lu Po attacked Lujiang with 50,000 troops, Pei Sui defeated him and was promoted to General of the Right Army. In the fifth year, during the expedition to Shaoyangzhou, Pei Sui built fortresses and won every battle against the Wei army's long bridge across the Huaihe River. Taking advantage of heavy rain and rising water levels, he led a shipborne assault on the bridge, defeating the Wei army. He then conquered Yangshi City, killing City Lord Yuan Kang, and captured Huoqiu City, beheading City Lord Ning Yongren. He also pacified Xiaoxian and captured Hefei. For his merits, Pei Sui was granted the title of Son of Yiling County with 300 households. He was later moved to Champion Changshi and Grand Administrator of Guangling County. After discussing the emperor's achievements in Wei Wu Temple, his wife's nephew Wang Zhuanzhi falsely reported him for disloyalty, leading to his demotion as Governor of Shi'an County. Determined to serve on the border, Pei Sui wrote to Lu Sengzhen, lamenting his situation as "Third Shi." Before reaching Shi'an, the Wei army attacked Suyu, and Pei Sui was ordered to resist, causing the Wei army to retreat. He later served as Governor of Tongling County, where he cultivated farmland for public and private benefit. He was eventually appointed as General Jiajie, Mingwei General, Xirong Xiaowei, and Governor of Beiliang and Qinzhou Prefectures, creating thousands of hectares of farmland and stabilizing the border. After returning to court, he held various high-ranking positions. In the second year of the ordinary era, Yizhou Governor Wen Sengming rebelled and defected to Wei. Pei Sui led an army to attack, penetrating deep into Wei territory and surprising the enemy. He defeated the Wei-appointed Yizhou Governor Qian Zhou, pacifying Yizhou. He was awarded the title of Controller and Governor of Northern Xuzhou, later moving to Governor of Yuzhou, Northern Yuzhou, and Huozhou, based in Hefei. Four years later, he was promoted to General Xuanyi. During the Liang Dynasty's Northern Expedition, Pei Sui led 3,000 cavalry to attack Shouyang, fighting nine rounds in one day but withdrawing due to lack of support. He later reorganized his army, captured several cities, and massacred garrisons. In the following years, he captured Xincai County and expanded Liang territory. When Wei generals Chang Sun Zhi and Wang Yuanchen led 50,000 troops to challenge, Pei Sui used a feigned retreat to ambush and defeat them, beheading over 10,000. Chang Sun Zhi fled and held the city. In May of the same year, Pei Sui died in the military camp. He was posthumously given the title of Shizhong and Zuowei General, promoted to Marquis, and granted 700 households. His posthumous name was Lie.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
魏寿阳守将长孙稚、河间王元琛率众五万，出城挑战。邃勒诸将为四甄以待之，令直阁将军李祖怜伪遁以引稚，稚等悉众追之，四甄竞发，魏众大败。
斩首万余级。
稚等奔走，闭门自固，不敢复出。
其年五月，卒于军中。
追赠侍中、左卫将军，给鼓吹一部，进爵为侯，增邑七百户。
谥曰烈。
邃少言笑，沉深有思略，为政宽明，能得士心。
居身方正有威重，将吏惮之，少敢犯法。
及其卒也，淮、肥间莫不流涕，以为邃不死，洛阳不足拔也。
子之礼，字子义，自国子生推第，补邵陵王国左常侍、信威行参军。
王为南兗，除长流参军，未行，仍留宿卫，补直阁将军。
丁父忧，服阕袭封，因请随军讨寿阳，除云麾将军，迁散骑常侍。
又别攻魏广陵城，平之，除信武将军、西豫州刺史，加轻车将军，除黄门侍郎，迁中军宣城王司马。
寻为都督北徐、仁、睢三州诸军事、信武将军、北徐州刺史。
征太子左卫率，兼卫尉卿，转少府卿。
卒，谥曰壮。
子政，承圣中，官至给事黄门侍郎。
江陵陷，随例入西魏。
之高字如山，邃兄中散大夫髦之子也。
起家州从事、新都令、奉朝请，迁参军。
颇读书，少负意气，常随叔父邃征讨，所在立功，甚为邃所器重，戎政咸以委焉。
寿阳之役，邃卒于军所，之高隶夏侯夔，平寿阳，仍除平北豫章长史、梁郡太守，封都城县男，邑二百五十户。
translation: 
Wei's generals guarding Shouyang, Chang Sun Zhi, and Wang Yuanchen of Hejian led an army of 50,000 people and came out of the city to challenge. Pei Sui led four generals to divide into four wings to wait for the Wei army. He ordered General Li Zulian to pretend to escape and lure Chang Sun Zhi. Chang Sun Zhi led all his troops to chase Li Zulian. During the attack, Pei Sui's ambushed four-wing troops were dispatched one after another, and the Wei army was severely defeated.
More than 10,000 people were beheaded.
Changsun Zhi and others ran for their lives. After returning to the city, they closed the city gate and held on, not daring to go out to fight again.
In May of the same year, Pei Sui died in the military camp.
He was forced to be given the title of Shizhong and Zuowei General, and he was given a propaganda department. He was promoted to the title of Marquis and added 700 households.
Mi Hao Lie.
Pei Sui was usually taciturn, unsmiling, deep-thinking, and strategic. He was tolerant and open-minded in politics and could win the heartfelt support of the soldiers.
He was upright and dignified, and the officers and officers respected him, and few dared to break the law.
After his death, all the people in Huaihe and Danshuijian shed tears. They believed that if Pei Sui had not died, Luoyang would not have been captured.
Pei Sui's son Pei Zhili, named Ziyi, was born in the middle of the imperial family. He was appointed as King Shaoling's constant servant of the left side of the country and Xinweixing joined the army.
When King Shaoling was appointed governor of Nanyan Prefecture, Pei Zhili was appointed Changliu to join the army. However, he did not take up the post. He still stayed in Suwei and was appointed as General Zhihe.
When his father passed away in the period of mourning, he assumed his father's title and requested to follow the army to conquer Shouyang. He was appointed General Yunhui and moved to the position of regular servant of Sanqi.
He also attacked Guangling City of Wei State and pacified the city of Weizuo. He was awarded the title of General Xinwu, Governor of Western Yuzhou, General Qingche, Minister of Huangmen, and was moved to Sima of King Xuanxu of the Chinese Army.
Soon he was appointed as the governor of the military affairs of Xuzhou, Renzhou and Suizhou in the north, General Xinwu, and the governor of Jiuzhimaggot.
Later, he was recruited to serve as the prince's left guard, concurrently as the Weiwei Qing, and then as the Shaofu Qing.
After Pei Zhishan died, Mi was named Zhuang.
His son Pei Zheng, during the Chengsheng period, was appointed as the Minister of Huangmen.
After the fall of Siduo, he entered Liwei as usual.
Pei Zhigao, also known as Rushan, was the son of Pei Sui's elder brother, Pei Mao, a doctor in Zhongsan.
When he first entered the officialdom, he served as a state official and Xindu county magistrate. At the invitation of the court, he moved to join the army.
Pei Zhigao read a lot of books. When he was young, he thought that his will and spirit were great. He often followed his uncle Pei Liao on his expeditions to the east and west. He made meritorious deeds wherever he went. He was highly regarded by Pei Sui, who entrusted him with all military and government affairs.
During the Battle of Shouyang, Pei Sui died in the military camp. Pei Zhigao was subordinate to Xiahou Kui and pacified Shouyang. He was awarded the title of Changshi of Yuzhang in Pingbei and the prefect of Liangjun. He was named the male of the capital county and had 250 households in the city.
summary:
Pei Sui was taciturn, deep-thinking, and strategic. He was tolerant in politics and won the soldiers' hearts. After his death, people in the Huaihe and Danshui regions mourned, believing that if he had not died, Luoyang would have been captured. His son Pei Zhili succeeded him, serving in various military and governmental roles. Pei Zhili's son Pei Zheng served as Minister of Huangmen. Pei Zhigao, Pei Sui's nephew, was a learned man who followed Pei Sui on expeditions and was highly regarded. He pacified Shouyang and was awarded titles. During the Hou Jing Rebellion, Pei Zhigao led troops to rescue the capital. He later served under Emperor Yuan of Liang and died at age seventy-three. His son Pei Ji fought and died when the Western Wei captured Jiangling. Pei Zhiping, Pei Zhigao's younger brother, also followed Pei Sui on expeditions and was named Dutinghou. He resisted Hou Jing and held various posts. Pei Zhiheng, another younger brother, was initially indulgent but later reclaimed wasteland and became wealthy. He served under Prince Xiao Gang and resisted Hou Jing, eventually dying in battle at age forty-one. He was posthumously given the title of Shizhong and Sikong Gong.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
太宗在东宫，闻而要之，以为河东王常侍、直殿主帅，迁直阁将军。
侯景乱，出为贞威将军，隶鄱阳王范讨景。
景济江，仍与范长子嗣入援。
连营度淮，据东城。
京都陷，退还合肥，与范溯流赴湓城。
景遣任约上逼晋熙，范令之横下援，未及至，范薨，之横乃还。
时寻阳王大心在江州，范副梅思立密要大心袭湓城，之横斩思立而拒大心。
大心以州降景。
之横率众与兄之高同归元帝，承制除散骑常侍、廷尉卿，出为河东内史。
又随王僧辩拒侯景于巴陵，景退，迁持节、平北将军、东徐州刺史，中护军，封豫宁侯，邑三千户。
又随僧辩追景，平郢、鲁、江、晋等州，恒为前锋陷阵。
仍至石头，破景，景东奔，僧辩令之横与杜掞入守台城。
及陆纳据湘州叛，又隶王僧辩南讨焉。
于阵斩纳将李贤明，遂平之。
又破武陵王于硖口。
还除吴兴太守，乃作百幅被，以成其初志。
后江陵陷，齐遣上党王高涣挟贞阳侯攻东关，晋安王方智承制，以之横为使持节、镇北将军、徐州刺史，都督众军，给鼓吹一部，出守蕲城。
之横营垒未周，而齐军大至，兵尽矢穷，遂于阵没，时年四十一。
赠侍中、司空公，谥曰忠壮。
子凤宝嗣。
夏侯亶，字世龙，车骑将军详长子也。
齐初，起家奉朝请。
永元末，详为西中郎南康王司马，随府镇荆州，亶留京师，为东昏听政主帅。
及崔慧景作乱，亶以捍御功，除骁骑将军。
及高祖起师，详与长史萧颖胄协同义举，密遣信下都迎亶，亶乃赍宣德皇后令，令南康王纂承大统，封十郡为宣城王，进位相国，置僚属，选百官。
建康城平，以亶为尚书吏部郎，俄迁侍中，奉玺于高祖。
天监元年，出为宣城太守。
translation: 
When Xiao Gang, Taizong of Liang Dynasty, was still the prince, he heard about Pei Zhiheng and invited him to the capital. He was made a regular servant of the King of Hedong, the commander of the Zhidian Palace, and the general of Zhihe.
During Hou Jing's rebellion, Pei Zhiheng served as General Zhenwei, attached to Poyang King Xiao Fan, and joined him in the crusade against Hou Jing.
After Hou Jing crossed the Yangtze River, Pei Zhiheng and Xiao Fan's eldest son Xiao Si returned to Beijing for reinforcements.
They crossed the Huaihe River in a company and occupied Dongcheng.
After Kyoto was captured, Pei Zhiheng retreated back to Hefei, and together with Xiao Fan went upriver to Huancheng.
Hou Jing sent Ren Yue upriver to attack Jinxi, and Xiao Fan ordered Pei Zhiheng to go downstream to rescue him. Before reaching the destination, Xiao Fan died and Pei Zhiheng returned.
At that time, Xunyang King Xiao Daxin was in Jiangzhou. Xiao Fan's deputy general Mei Sili secretly invited Lu Quzu to attack. The tomb owner killed Chuang Moli and then resisted Xiao Daxin.
Xiao Daxin offered Jiangzhou to surrender to Hou Jing.
Pei Zhiheng led his troops and surrendered to Emperor Liang Yuan together with his brother Pei Zhigao. In accordance with the emperor's will, he was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi, a minister of Tingwei, and the internal history of Hedong County.
He also followed Wang Sengbian to resist Hou Jing in Baling. After Hou Jing retreated, Pei Zhi was moved to the post of Chijie, General Pingbei, Governor of Shuxuzhou, and Central Protector. He was named Qiongkong Fort and had a settlement of 3,000 households.
He also followed Wang Zhipan to pursue Zhuijing and pinged Ying, Lu, Jiang, Jin and other states. Pei Zhiheng always served as the vanguard and charged into the battle.
At the stone place, Jing was defeated and Jing ran away to the east. Monk Bianyi ordered Tomb Zhiheng and Siqi to enter the imperial wall to guard.
Later, Duiqu relied on his wings to rebel, and Tomb Zhangzhiheng followed Wang Sengbian to the south to attack Lu Na.
He killed Lu Na's general Li Xianming on the battlefield, thus quelling the Japanese rebellion.
Pei Zhiheng also defeated King Yawuling at Xikou.
After he came back, he was appointed as the prefect of Wuxing County and made a hundred quilts to realize his original wish.
Later, Jiangling was captured, and the Southern Qi Dynasty sent Gao Huan, the king of Shangdang, to support Marquis Zhenyang in attacking Shuguan. Xiao Fangzhi, king of Jin'an, followed the emperor's will and appointed Pei Zhiheng as envoy Chijie, general Zhenbei, governor of Xuzhou, and governor of the army. He was also sent to the Advocacy Department to go out of the capital to guard Qicheng.
Pei Zhiheng had not yet built the barricades of the military camp, but the Southern Qi army had already arrived. Most of the soldiers in Pei Zhiheng's team died in the battle, and their arrows were exhausted. Pei Zhiheng also died on the battlefield at the age of forty-one.
He was posthumously given the title of Shizhong and Sikong Gong, with the nickname Zhongzhuang.
He was succeeded by his son Xiao Fengbao.
Xiahou Dan, named Shilong, was the eldest son of the chariot general Xiahou Xiang.
In the early years of the Southern Qi Dynasty, Xia Houzhi left home to become an official and became an imperial minister.
At the end of the Yongyuan Dynasty, Xiahou Xiang was appointed Sima of King Nankang of Xizhonglang. He followed the palace to guard Jingzhou, while Xiahou stayed in the capital and served as the commander-in-chief of Shuhunhou.
During Cui Huijing's rebellion, Xiahou Xuan was awarded the title of General of Valiant Cavalry for his service in protecting the emperor.
When Emperor Gaozu raised a righteous army, Xia Houxiang and Chief Shi Xiao Yingzhou negotiated and jointly raised the righteous flag. They secretly sent messengers to Kyoto to welcome Xiahou Zhi. Xiahou Zhi carried a warrant from Queen Xuande and ordered King Nankang to compile the throne to inherit the emperor's rule.
After Jiankang City was pacified, Xia Houzhi was appointed Shangshu Libulang, and soon moved to the position of Shizhong. He dedicated the emperor's jade seal to Gaozu.
In the first year of Tianjian, Xia Houzhi served as the prefect of Xuancheng County.
summary:
Xiahou Dan, styled Shilong, was the eldest son of Chariot General Xiahou Xiang. He began his official career in the Southern Qi Dynasty and served as an imperial minister. During Cui Huijing's rebellion, he was awarded General of Valiant Cavalry for protecting the emperor. When Emperor Gaozu raised an army, Xiahou Xiang and Xiao Yingzhou raised the righteous flag, and Xiahou Dan carried a warrant from Queen Xuande to order King Nankang to compile the throne. After Jiankang City was pacified, he served as Shangshu Libulang and later Shizhong, dedicating the emperor's jade seal to Gaozu. In the first year of Tianjian, he served as Prefect of Xuancheng County and later as a regular servant of Sanqi and General of Youxiaoqi. After his father's death, he observed mourning rites and gave away his inheritance to his younger brothers. In the eighth year, he was appointed as Chijie, supervising Sizhou's military affairs, and Governor of Sizhou. After the mourning period, he was granted the title of Duke of Fengcheng County. Xiahou Dan was dignified and helpful, favored by border people. He returned to court in the twelfth year and held various high-ranking positions, including Duguan Shangshu and General Shizhong. He served as Governor of Wuxing County, where he implemented benevolent policies, earning statues and stone tablets from the people. In the third year of the ordinary era, he was summoned as a regular servant of Sanqi and General of Youxiaoqi. He was dismissed due to official affairs but later reinstated.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
寻入为散骑常侍，领右骁骑将军。
六年，出为平西始兴王长史、南郡太守，父忧解职。
居丧尽礼，庐于墓侧，遗财悉推诸弟。
八年，起为持节、督司州诸军事、信武将军、司州刺史，领安陆太守。
服阕，袭封豊城县公。
居州甚有威惠，为边人所悦服。
十二年，以本号还朝，除都官尚书，迁给事中、右卫将军、领豫州大中正。
十五年，出为信武将军、安西长史、江夏太守。
十七年，入为通直散骑常侍、太子右卫率，迁左卫将军，领前军将军。
俄出为明威将军、吴兴太守。
在郡复有惠政，吏民图其像，立碑颂美焉。
普通三年，入为散骑常侍，领右骁骑将军，转太府卿，常侍如故。
以公事免，未几，优诏复职。
五年，迁中护军。
六年，大举北伐。先遣豫州刺史裴邃帅谯州刺史湛僧智、历阳太守明绍世、南谯太守鱼弘、晋熙太守张澄，并世之骁将，自南道伐寿阳城，未克而邃卒。
乃加亶使持节，驰驿代邃，与魏将河间王元琛、临淮王元彧等相拒，频战克捷。
寻有密敕，班师合肥，以休士马，须堰成复进。
七年夏，淮堰水盛，寿阳城将没，高祖复遣北道军元树帅彭宝孙、陈庆之等稍进，亶帅湛僧智、鱼弘、张澄等通清流涧，将入淮、肥。
魏军夹肥筑城，出亶军后，亶与僧智还袭，破之。
进攻黎浆，贞威将军韦放自北道会焉。
两军既合，所向皆降下。
凡降城五十二，获男女口七万五千人，米二十万石。
诏以寿阳依前代置豫州，合肥镇改为南豫州，以亶为使持节、都督豫州缘淮南豫霍义定五州诸军事、云麾将军、豫、南豫二州刺史。
寿春久罹兵荒，百姓多流散，亶轻刑薄赋，务农省役，顷之民户充复。
大通二年，进号平北将军。
三年，卒于州镇。
高祖闻之，即日素服举哀，赠车骑将军。
谥曰襄。
translation: 
Soon he was called to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi and concurrently as a general of Youxiaoqi.
In the sixth year, he served as the Changshi of King Shixing of Pingxi and the Grand Administrator of Nanjun. He was relieved of his duties due to the death of his father.
During the mourning period, he fully complied with the etiquette. He built a thatched shed next to his father's grave and lived in Baomian. He gave away all the property left by his father to his younger brothers.
In the eighth year, Xia Houzhi was appointed as Chijie, supervising the military affairs of Sizhou, general Xinwu, governor of Sizhou, and concurrently as the prefect of Anlu County.
After the mourning period expired, he was granted the title of Duke of Fengcheng County.
Xiahou Zhi was very dignified and helpful in his official position in the state, and he was favored by the people on the border.
In the twelfth year, he returned to the court with his original title, was awarded the title of Duguan Shangshu, and was transferred to General Shizhong and Youwei, and concurrently served as Yuzhou Dazhongzheng.
In the fifteenth year, he served as General Xinwu, Changshi of Anxi, and Grand Administrator of Jiangxia County.
In the seventeenth year, he was summoned to serve as a regular servant of Tongzhi Sanqi and the prince's right guard. He was moved to the left guard general and concurrently served as the former army general.
Soon he served as General Mingwei and Grand Administrator of Wuxing County.
He also implemented benevolent policies in his position as county governor. The officials and people in the county gave him a statue and set up stone tablets to praise his virtues.
In ordinary three years, he was summoned to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi and concurrently as a general of Youxiaoqi. He was transferred to the position of Taifuqing, and his position as a regular servant remained the same.
He was dismissed from office due to official affairs. Soon after, the emperor issued a special order to reinstate him.
Five years later, he was transferred to the Central Guards Army.
In the sixth year of the Liang Dynasty's large-scale Northern Expedition, he first sent Pei Sui, the governor of Yuzhou, to lead Zhan Sengzhi, the governor of Qiaozhou, Ming Shaoshi, the prefect of Liyang County, Yu Hong, the prefect of Nanqiao County, and Zhang Cheng, the prefect of Jinxi County. These people were all talented generals in the world. They attacked Shouyang City from the south road, but Pei Sui died before they could capture it.
He appointed Xia Houzhi as the envoy to hold the festival, and rode forward to replace Pei Sui. He fought with the Wei generals Hejian Wang Yuanchen and Linhuai Wang Yuanor. He fought frequently and won every time.
Soon, the emperor issued a secret order for them to return to Fei so that the soldiers and horses could rest and wait until the weir was built before marching.
In the summer of the seventh year, the water in the Huaihe River dike was so heavy that the city of Shouyang was about to be submerged. Emperor Gaozu sent the Northern Army Yuanshu to lead Peng Zhousun, Chen Qingzhi and others to gradually advance.
The Soviet army built city walls along both sides of Danba Cheng and rushed out from behind the Xia royal army. Xiahou Zhiyu Zhan Sengzhi returned to attack and defeated the Wei army.
They also attacked Lijing, and Liang Zhenwei's general Wei Fang came from the North Road to join Xiahou's direct troops.
After the two armies joined together, wherever they went, all Wei troops surrendered and the city was captured.
A total of fifty-two cities surrendered, and 75,000 men and women were captured, with rice and 200,000 stones.
The emperor issued an edict to establish Qiongcong in Shouyang Dynasty according to the system of the previous dynasty, and changed Hedanyan to Muliaochuan. He appointed Emperor Xiabao as envoy Chijie, governor of Yuzhou and the military affairs of the five states along the Huaihe River, Huozhou, Yizhou, and Yuchu, and general Yunhui, Suiye, and Luqiongye.
The Shouchun area had long been devastated by war, and most of the people were dispersed. Xiahou Zhi implemented the policy of mitigating penalties and lowering taxes, allowing the people to work hard on farming and save themselves from labor. Soon, the people's household registration funds expanded to the original scale.
In the second year of Datong, Xia Shi Huangjin was titled General Pingbei.
Three years later, he died in office in the state town.
When Emperor Wu of Liang, the founder of the family, heard the bad news, he wore plain clothes to mourn on that day and posthumously awarded him the title of General of Chariots and Cavalry.
The name of Mi is Xiang.
summary:
In the sixth year of the Liang Dynasty's Northern Expedition, Pei Sui died while attacking Shouyang. Xiahou Dan replaced him and fought Wei generals, winning every battle. In the seventh year, the Huaihe River dike caused flooding, and Xiahou Dan, along with Zhan Sengzhi, defeated the Wei army. They attacked Lijing, and Wei Fang joined from the North Road. Together, they captured 52 cities, taking 75,000 prisoners and 200,000 shi of rice. Xiahou Dan was appointed as Governor of Yuzhou and the five states along the Huaihe River. He implemented policies to reduce penalties and taxes, allowing the people to prosper. In the second year of Datong, he was titled General Pingbei. He died in office three years later, and Emperor Wu of Liang mourned him, posthumously awarding him General of Chariots and Cavalry. His posthumous name was Xiang. The people petitioned to build a temple for him. Xiahou Dan was personable, generous, and well-read. He was frugal but loved music in his later years, keeping geishas. He had two sons, Xiahou Yi and Xiahou Sun, both of whom died in the Hou Jing Rebellion.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
八年，敕夔帅壮武将军裴之礼、直阁将军任思祖出义阳道，攻平静、穆陵、阴山三关，克之。
是时谯州刺史湛僧智围魏东豫州刺史元庆和于广陵，入其郛。
魏将元显伯率军赴援，僧智逆击破之，夔自武阳会僧智，断魏军归路。
庆和于内筑栅以自固，及夔至，遂请降。
夔让僧智，僧智曰： 庆和志欲降公，不愿降僧智，今往必乖其意；且僧智所将为乌合募人，不可御之以法。
公持军素严，必无犯令，受降纳附，深得其宜。
于是夔乃登城拔魏帜，建官军旗鼓，众莫敢妄动，庆和束兵以出，军无私焉。
凡降男女口四万余人，粟六十万斛，余物称是。
显伯闻之夜遁，众军追之，生擒二万余人，斩获不可胜数。
诏以僧智领东豫州，镇广陵。
夔引军屯安阳。
夔又遣偏将屠楚城，尽俘其众，由是义阳北道遂与魏绝。
大通二年，魏郢州刺史元愿达请降，高祖敕郢州刺史元树往迎愿达，夔亦自楚城会之，遂留镇焉。
诏改魏郢州为北司州，以夔为刺史，兼督司州。
三年，迁使持节，进号仁威将军，封保城县侯，邑一千五百户。
中大通二年，征为右卫将军，丁所生母忧去职。
时魏南兗州刺史刘明以谯城入附，诏遣镇北将军元树帅军应接，起夔为云麾将军，随机北讨。
寻授使持节、督南豫州诸军事、南豫州刺史。
六年，转使持节、督豫、淮、陈、颍、建、霍、义七州诸军事、豫州刺史。
豫州积岁寇戎，人颇失业，夔乃帅军人于苍陵立堰，溉田千余顷。岁收谷百余万石，以充储备，兼赡贫人，境内赖之。
夔兄亶先经此任，至是夔又居焉。
兄弟并有恩惠于乡里，百姓歌之曰： 我之有州，频仍夏侯；前兄后弟，布政优优。
在州七年，甚有声绩，远近多附之。
有部曲万人，马二千匹，并服习精强，为当时之盛。
translation: 
In the eighth year, the emperor ordered Xiahou Kui to lead Zhuangwu General Pei Zhili and Zhihe General Ren Sizu from Yiyang Road to attack the three passes of Pingping, Muling and Yinshan, and finally captured these three passes.
At this time, Zhan Sengzhi, the governor of Qiaozhou, surrounded Yuan Qinghe, the governor of Yuzhou, Shu State, in Guangling, and entered its outer city.
Wei general Yuan Haobo led his army to rescue. Zhan Sengzhi met the Wei army and defeated the team. Xiahou Kui came from Wuyang to join Zhan Sengzhi and cut off the Wei army's retreat.
Yuan Qinghe built a fence in the city to strengthen his defense facilities. When Xiahou Kui arrived, Yuan Qinghe asked for surrender.
Xiahou Kui wanted to give the credit to Zhan Sengzhi. Zhan Sengzhi said: Yuan Qinghe wants to surrender to you, but is not willing to surrender to me, Sengzhi. If I accept his surrender today, it will definitely be against his will; and I, Sengzhi, command a ragtag group of people recruited and cannot command the surrendering army according to the law.
You have always been very strict in managing the army. No one dares to disobey orders. It is most appropriate for you to accept surrender and surrender.
Therefore, Xia Houkui climbed up the city wall, pulled down the flags of the Wei army, and raised the banners and drums of the Liang Dynasty army. No one dared to act rashly. Yuan Qinghe rectified his troops and left the city, and no one in the army engaged in secret activities.
The total number of men and women who surrendered was more than 40,000, and they had 600,000 hu of millet, and the rest of the items were roughly the same.
After Yuan Xianbo heard the news, he ran away overnight. The Liang Dynasty army pursued him closely, capturing more than 20,000 people alive and killing countless others.
The emperor ordered Zhan Sengzhi to take charge of Yuzhou and guard Guangling.
Xiahou Kui led the army to station in Anyang.
Xiahou Kui sent his generals to massacre Chu City and captured all the troops. From then on, the North Road of Yiyang was cut off from the Wei State.
In the second year of Datong, Wei Yuan Yuanda, the governor of Yingzhou, requested to surrender to the Liang Dynasty. Emperor Wu of Liang ordered Yuanshu, the governor of Yingzhou, to greet Yuan Yuanda. Xiahou Kui also came from Chu City to join him, so he stayed in the county to guard.
The emperor ordered Wei Ying Prefecture to be changed to Beisi Prefecture, and appointed Xiahou Kui as the governor of Beisi Prefecture and to supervise Si Prefecture.
In the third year, he was transferred to the envoy Chijie and was granted the title of General Renwei. He was granted the title of Marquis of Baocheng County with a settlement of 1,500 households.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was recruited as a right-guard general, but resigned due to the death of his biological mother.
At that time, Liu Ming, the governor of Southern Yanzhou of Wei State, surrendered to the Liang Dynasty with Qiao City. The emperor ordered to send General Yuan Shu of Zhenbei to lead the army to respond. He appointed Xiahou Kui as General Yunhui to act according to the opportunity and crusade against the north.
Soon, Xia Houkui was appointed as the envoy Chijie, supervising the military affairs of southern Yuzhou, and the governor of southern Yuzhou.
In the sixth year, he was transferred to the envoy Chijie, in charge of the military affairs of the seven states of Yuzhou, Huaizhou, Chenzhou, Banzhou, Jianzhou, Huozhou and Yizhou, and the governor of Yuzhou.
Yuzhou had been invaded by wars for many years, and most people were unemployed. Xia Houkui led his troops to build a dike in Canngling, irrigated more than a thousand hectares of fields with water, and harvested more than one million shi of millet a year later, which was used as a reserve and to provide for poor families. The people in the territory relied on him to survive.
Xiahou Kui's elder brother Xia Houzhi had previously held this official position, and now Xiahou Kui is in this position again.
Both brothers left benevolence to the village, and the common people sang songs to praise them: "I have a state, and I often stay in Xiahou; the former brother and the latter brother are good administrators."
Xia Houkui served as an official in the state for seven years. He made great achievements and gained a good reputation. People near and far relied on him.
There were a total of 10,000 troops and 2,000 horses. These people were all elite soldiers and generals who were good at riding and shooting. It became a grand event at that time.
summary:
Xiahou Kui, styled Ji Long, was Xiahou Dan's younger brother. He began his official career in the Southern Qi Dynasty and served in various posts. After his father's death, he mourned and later took charge of building Tai Chi Hall. He served as an adjutant to Pei Sui during the expedition against Zhanye. He replaced his brother as Governor of Yuxing and later served as Governor of Sizhou. In the eighth year, he led an attack on the three passes of Pingping, Muling, and Yinshan, capturing them. He joined Zhan Sengzhi to cut off the Wei army's retreat, and Yuan Qinghe surrendered. Xiahou Kui gave credit to Zhan Sengzhi, who insisted Xiahou Kui accept the surrender. Xiahou Kui climbed the city wall, raised Liang banners, and accepted the surrender of over 40,000 people. He pursued Yuan Xianbo, capturing over 20,000. He later massacred Chu City, cutting off the North Road of Yiyang from Wei. In the second year of Datong, Wei Yuan Yuanda surrendered, and Xiahou Kui was appointed Governor of Beisi Prefecture. He was later granted the title of Marquis of Baocheng County. After his mother's death, he resigned but was soon appointed as Governor of Southern Yuzhou. In the sixth year, he was transferred to Governor of Yuzhou, where he built a dike in Canngling, irrigating over a thousand hectares and harvesting over one million shi of millet. Both Xiahou Kui and his brother Xiahou Dan were beloved by the people, who sang songs praising them. Xiahou Kui served for seven years, maintaining 10,000 troops and 2,000 horses. He was bold and extravagant, with hundreds of geishas and concubines, and enjoyed entertaining guests. He died in Yuzhou at age fifty-six, posthumously given the title of Shizhong and General Anbei. His son Xiahou Zan succeeded him, and his younger son Xiahou Fan was rough and later joined Hou Jing's rebellion, plundering the capital.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
性奢豪，后房伎妾曳罗縠饰金翠者亦有百数。
爱好人士，不以贵势自高，文武宾客常满坐，时亦以此称之。
大同四年，卒于州，时年五十六。
有诏举哀，赙钱二十万，布二百匹。
追赠侍中、安北将军。
谥曰桓。
子撰嗣，官至太仆卿。
撰弟譒，少粗险薄行，常停乡里，领其父部曲，为州助防，刺史萧渊明引为府长史。
渊明彭城战没，复为侯景长史。
景寻举兵反，譒前驱济江，顿兵城西士林馆，破掠邸第及居人富室，子女财货，尽略有之。
渊明在州有四妾，章、于、王、阮，并有国色。
渊明没魏，其妾并还京第，譒至，破第纳焉。
鱼弘，襄阳人。
身长八尺，白皙美姿容。
累从征讨，常为军锋，历南谯、盱眙、竟陵太守。
常语人曰： 我为郡，所谓四尽：水中鱼鳖尽，山中麞鹿尽，田中米谷尽，村里民庶尽。
丈夫生世，如轻尘栖弱草，白驹之过隙。
人生欢乐富贵几何时！
于是恣意酣赏，侍妾百余人，不胜金翠，服玩车马，皆穷一时之绝。
迁为平西湘东王司马、新兴、永宁二郡太守，卒官。
韦放，字元直，车骑将军睿之子。
初为齐晋安王宁朔迎主簿，高祖临雍州，又召为主簿。
放身长七尺七寸，腰带八围，容貌甚伟。
天监元年，为盱眙太守，还除通直郎，寻为轻车晋安王中兵参军，迁镇右始兴王谘议参军，以父忧去职。
服阕，袭封永昌县侯，出为轻车南平王长史、襄阳太守。
translation: 
Xia Houkui had a bold and extravagant temperament. He had hundreds of geisha and concubines in his back room, all dressed in silk clothes and decorated with gold and jade jewelry.
He also liked to make friends with people and never regarded himself as aloof because of his high official position. His home was often full of distinguished guests, including civil and military officials. People at that time also praised him for this.
In the fourth year of Datong, Xia Houkui died in Yuzhou at the age of fifty-six.
The emperor held a mourning ceremony in Shao, and gave him 200,000 yuan for the funeral and 200 pieces of cloth.
He was posthumously given the title of Shizhong and General Anbei.
Mi Hao Huan.
Xiahou Kui's son Xia Houzan succeeded him and became an official to the rank of Taipuqing.
Xiahouzan's younger brother, Xiahoufan, was rough and frivolous in his youth. He often stayed in the countryside, leading his father's troops and acting as a defense support for Zhouxiang. The governor Xiao Yuanming chose him as the governor of the government.
After Xiao Yuanming died in the battle of Pengcheng, Xiahou Pu became Hou Jing's long history again.
Soon, Hou Jing raised his troops to rebel, and Xia Houyu was the first to cross the river as a pioneer. He stopped his troops at the Shilin Pavilion in the west of the capital, broke into the mansions, and the wealthy families among the people, and plundered them, taking all their children, property, and goods.
Xiao Yuanming had four concubines in the state, Zhang, Yu, Wang and Ruan, all of whom were very beautiful.
After Xiao Yuanming died in the battle of Wei, all his concubines returned to his mansion in the capital. After the Xiahou Zhus arrived, they entered the mansion and took them all as their concubines.
Yu Hong is from Xiangyang.
He was eight feet tall, fair-skinned, and handsome.
He followed the emperor on many expeditions, often served as the vanguard of the army, and served successively as the prefect of Nanqiao County, Xuyi County, and Jingling County.
He often said to others: When I am a county guard, there are so-called four erasures: the fish and turtles are all in the water, the deer and deer are in the mountains, the rice and grain are in the fields, and the people are all in the villages.
A man's life in this world is as light as a speck of dust settling in the grass, and as short-lived as a white horse jumping over a mountain gap.
How long can we enjoy the joy and wealth of life!
Therefore, he drank wine and rewards as much as he wanted, and had more than a hundred concubines. He was rich in gold, silver, pearls and jade, and his clothes, toys, carriages and horses were all top-notch at the time.
Yu Hongqian was appointed Sima of the King of Pingxi Xiangdong and the prefect of Xinxing and Yongning counties. He died in his official position.
Wei Fang, whose courtesy name is Yuan Zhi, is the son of Wei Rui, a general on horseback.
He first served as the chief clerk of Ning Shuo of King An of Qi and Jin Dynasty. When Emperor Gaozu came to Yuzhou, he called him as the chief clerk.
Wei Fang is seven feet seven inches tall, has an eight-gauge belt, and has a very majestic appearance.
In the first year of Tianjian, he served as the prefect of Xuyi County. After returning to Beijing, he was awarded Tongzhilang. Soon he was appointed as a soldier of Qingchao King Jin'an to join the army. He moved to Zhenyou as a consultant to King Shixing to join the army. He resigned due to the death of his father.
After the mourning period expired, he was granted the title of Marquis of Yongchang County and served as the chief historian of Qingchetong King and the prefect of Xiangyang County.
summary:
Yu Hong, from Xiangyang, was tall and handsome. He served as a vanguard in many expeditions and as Prefect of several counties. He was known for his hedonistic lifestyle, with over a hundred concubines and luxurious possessions. He died in office. Wei Fang, styled Yuan Zhi, was the son of General Wei Rui. He served as a chief clerk and later as Prefect of Xuyi County. He was granted the title of Marquis of Yongchang County and served as Grand Administrator of Jingling County. During the Northern Expedition, he led troops from the North Road to rendezvous in Shouchun. He attacked Guoyang, defeating the Wei army despite being outnumbered. He captured City Lord Wang Wei and took 4,200 prisoners. He later served as Governor of Liangzhou and Nanqinzhou, and died at age fifty-nine. Wei Fang was generous and loyal, especially to his brothers. He kept his promise to marry his children to the children of his deceased friend Zhang Su. His son Wei Can succeeded him. The historian comments that Pei Sui and Xiahou Dan were talented and accomplished officials, fitting for their civil and military roles, and should be remembered as famous officials of the Liang Dynasty.

