Chunk 0: 
original: 
裴邃，字渊明，河东闻喜人，魏襄州刺史绰之后也。
祖寿孙，寓居寿阳，为宋武帝前军长史。
父仲穆，骁骑将军。
邃十岁能属文，善《左氏春秋》。
齐建武初，刺史萧遥昌引为府主簿。
寿阳有八公山庙，遥昌为立碑，使邃为文，甚见称赏。
举秀才，对策高第，奉朝请。
东昏践阼，始安王萧遥光为抚军将军、扬州刺史，引邃为参军。
后遥光败，邃还寿阳，值刺史裴叔业以寿阳降魏，豫州豪族皆被驱掠，邃遂随众北徙。魏主宣武帝雅重之，以为司徒属，中书郎，魏郡太守。
魏遣王肃镇寿阳，邃固求随肃，密图南归。
天监初，自拔还朝，除后军谘议参军。
邃求边境自效，以为辅国将军、庐江太守。
时魏将吕颇率众五万奄来攻郡，邃率麾下拒破之，加右军将军。
五年，征邵阳洲，魏人为长桥断淮以济。
邃筑垒逼桥，每战辄克，于是密作没突舰。
会甚雨，淮水暴溢，邃乘舰径造桥侧，魏众惊溃，邃乘胜追击，大破之。
进克羊石城，斩城主元康。
又破霍丘城，斩城主甯永仁。
平小岘，攻合肥。
以功封夷陵县子，邑三百户。
迁冠军长史、广陵太守。
邃与乡人共入魏武庙，因论帝王功业。
其妻甥王篆之密启高祖，云 裴邃多大言，有不臣之迹。
由是左迁为始安太守。
邃志欲立功边陲，不愿闲远，乃致书于吕僧珍曰： 昔阮咸、颜延有 二始 之叹。吾才不逮古人，今为三始，非其愿也，将如之何！
未及至郡，会魏攻宿预，诏邃拒焉。
行次直渎，魏众退。
迁右军谘议参军、豫章王云麾府司马，率所领助守石头。
出为竟陵太守，开置屯田，公私便之。
迁为游击将军、硃衣直阁，直殿省。
寻迁假节、明威将军、西戎校尉、北梁、秦二州刺史。
复开创屯田数千顷，仓廪盈实，省息边运，民吏获安，乃相率饷绢千余匹。邃从容曰： 汝等不应尔；吾又不可逆。
纳其绢二匹而已。
还为给事中、云骑将军、硃衣直阁将军，迁大匠卿。
普通二年，义州刺史文僧明以州叛入于魏，魏军来援。
以邃为假节、信武将军，督众军讨焉。
邃深入魏境，从边城道，出其不意。魏所署义州刺史封寿据檀公岘，邃击破之，遂围其城，寿面缚请降，义州平。
除持节、督北徐州诸军事、信武将军、北徐州刺史。未之职，又迁督豫州、北豫、霍三州诸军事、豫州刺史，镇合肥。
四年，进号宣毅将军。
是岁，大军将北伐，以邃督征讨诸军事，率骑三千，先袭寿阳。
九月壬戌，夜至寿阳，攻其郛，斩关而入，一日战九合，为后军蔡秀成失道不至，邃以援绝拔还。
于是邃复整兵，收集士卒，令诸将各以服色相别。
邃自为黄袍骑，先攻狄丘、甓城、黎浆等城，皆拔之。
屠安成、马头、沙陵等戍。
是冬，始脩芍陂。
明年，复破魏新蔡郡，略地至于郑城，汝颍之间，所在响应。
translation: 
Pei Sui, named Yuanming, was born in Wenxi, Hedong. He was a descendant of Pei Chuo, the governor of Xiangzhou in the Wei Dynasty.
His grandfather, Pei Shousun, lived in Shouyang County and was the former army commander of Emperor Wu of the Song Dynasty.
His father's name was Pei Zhongmu, who served as a general of cavalry.
Pei Sui could write articles when he was ten years old, and was good at "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu".
In the early years of Jianwu in the Southern Qi Dynasty, Xiao Yaochang, the governor, recommended him to be the governor of the state government.
There is the Bagongshan Temple in Shouyang County. Xiao Yaochang erected a monument for it and asked Pei Sui to write the inscription. The inscription was highly praised and appreciated.
After Pei Sui passed the examination as a scholar, he ranked first in high school in the imperial examination and was appointed as a minister.
After Donghunhou came to the throne, Xiao Yaoguang, the king of Shi'an, was appointed as the general of Fujun and the governor of Yangzhou. He recommended Pei Sui to join the army.
Later, when Xiao Yaoguang was defeated, Pei Sui returned to Shouyang, and met the governor Pei Shuye who offered Shouyang to surrender to the Wei State. All the noble families in Yuzhou were expelled and plundered, so Pei Sui followed everyone and moved north. Emperor Xuanwu of the Wei State valued him very much and appointed him as Situ, Zhongshu Lang, and the prefect of Wei County.
The State of Wei sent Wang Su to guard Shouyang. Pei Sui firmly requested to follow Wang Su and secretly planned to return to the south.
In the early years of Tianjian, Pei Sui escaped from Wei and returned to the Southern Dynasty. He was appointed as a consultant to the rear army and joined the army.
Pei Sui himself asked to serve on the border, so he was appointed as the general of the auxiliary country and the governor of Lujiang County.
At that time, the Wei general Lu Po led an army of 50,000 troops to suddenly attack Lujiang County. Pei Sui led his men to resist and defeated the Wei army. Pei Sui was appointed as the general of the right army.
In the fifth year, during the expedition to Shaoyangzhou, the Wei army built a long bridge across the Huaihe River to meet the river.
Pei Sui built a fortress and pushed towards Long Bridge, winning every battle. Therefore, he secretly helped build ships without chimneys.
It was raining heavily and the water level of the Huaihe River surged. Pei Sui and his men took a ship and went straight to the long bridge. The Wei army was shocked and defeated. Pei Sui and others took advantage of the victory to pursue and defeated the Wei army.
Pei Sui then conquered Yangshi City and killed the city lord Yuan Kang.
He also captured Huoqiu City and beheaded the city lord Ning Yongren.
After that, Xiaoxian was pacified and Hefei was captured.
Pei Sui was granted the title of Son of Yiling County due to his meritorious service, and was granted the title of 300 households in the town.
He was moved to the post of Champion Changshi and Grand Administrator of Guangling County.
Pei Sui and his fellow villagers entered Wei Wu Temple and discussed the emperor's achievements.
His wife's nephew Wang Zhuanzhi secretly reported to Emperor Gaozu that Pei Sui had told many lies and showed signs of being disloyal to the monarch.
Therefore, Pei Sui was demoted and appointed as the governor of Shi'an County.
Pei Sui was determined to make meritorious service on the border and was unwilling to go to a place that was too quiet, so he wrote a letter to Lu Sengzhen saying: In the past, Ruan Xian and Yan Yan had the sigh of "Two Shi". My talents are not as good as those of the ancients. Now it is "Third Shi". This is not my wish. What should I do?
Before reaching Shi'an County, the Wei army happened to attack Suyu, and Emperor Shao ordered Pei Sui to go and resist the Wei army.
Pei Sui marched to Zhidu, and the Wei army retreated.
Pei Sui moved to the right army to consult and join the army, and was the Sima of Yunhui Mansion of King Yuzhang, and led his troops to help guard Stone City.
Later, he served as the governor of Tongling County. He cultivated and farmed fields, which was convenient for both the public and private parties.
He was also moved to the post of guerrilla general Zhu Yi Zhihe and was on duty in the palace province.
Soon, he was moved to the post of General Jiajie, Mingwei General, Xirong Xiaowei, and governor of Beiliang Prefecture and Qinzhou Prefecture.
He also created thousands of hectares of farmland and filled granaries with grain, which made it possible to save or stop transportation to the border, and both the army and the people were able to stabilize. So they sent more than a thousand pieces of silk one after another, and Pei Sui calmly said: "You shouldn't be like this, but I can't go against your wishes."
So, he only symbolically accepted two pieces of silk.
After returning to the court, he was appointed to Shizhong, General Yunqi, and General Zhu Yizhihe, and was moved to the rank of Great Craftsman.
In the second year of ordinary life, Yizhou governor Wen Seng Mingxian rebelled against Yizhou and defected to Wei, and the Wei army came to support him.
The emperor appointed Pei Sui as General Jiajie and Xinwu to lead the army to attack the Wei army.
Pei Sui penetrated deep into the territory of the Wei State and borrowed roads from the border towns to catch him by surprise. The Yizhou Governor Qian Zhou deployed by the Wei State occupied Shanggong Maggot. He defeated Lao Hua and then surrounded Fucheng. Feng Shou tied his hands behind his back and asked for surrender, and Yizhou was pacified.
Pei Sui was awarded the title of Controller, Supervisor of Military Affairs in Northern Xuzhou, General Xinwu, and Governor of Northern Xuzhou. Before he could take office, he was moved to Governor of Military Affairs of Yuzhou, Northern Yuzhou, and Huozhou, and Governor of Yuzhou, and was based in Hefei.
Four years later, Pei Suijin was awarded the title of General Xuanyi.
In the year of sending, the Liang Dynasty army was preparing for the Northern Expedition. Pei Sui was appointed as the governor to conquer various military forces. He led three thousand cavalry to attack Shouyang first.
In the ninth month of Renxu, the troops arrived in Shouyang overnight, attacked the outer city of Shouyang, killed the soldiers guarding the gate and entered the inner city. Xiang fought nine rounds in one day. Cai Xiucheng, the rear army, did not arrive in time because he was lost. Pei Sui withdrew and returned to the army because of the lack of support.
In Qianxiang, Pei Sui once again reorganized the army and gathered soldiers. Several generals were ordered to use different clothing colors to distinguish themselves from each other.
Pei Sui himself led the cavalry in yellow robes and attacked Diqiu, Zongcheng, Lijiang and other cities first, but they were all captured.
Ancheng, Matou, Shaling and other garrisons were massacred.
In the winter of the next year, construction of Shaopei began.
The next year, he captured Xincai County of Wei State and occupied the territory as far as Zhengcheng. People from Ru River and Ying River responded everywhere.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
魏寿阳守将长孙稚、河间王元琛率众五万，出城挑战。邃勒诸将为四甄以待之，令直阁将军李祖怜伪遁以引稚，稚等悉众追之，四甄竞发，魏众大败。
斩首万余级。
稚等奔走，闭门自固，不敢复出。
其年五月，卒于军中。
追赠侍中、左卫将军，给鼓吹一部，进爵为侯，增邑七百户。
谥曰烈。
邃少言笑，沉深有思略，为政宽明，能得士心。
居身方正有威重，将吏惮之，少敢犯法。
及其卒也，淮、肥间莫不流涕，以为邃不死，洛阳不足拔也。
子之礼，字子义，自国子生推第，补邵陵王国左常侍、信威行参军。
王为南兗，除长流参军，未行，仍留宿卫，补直阁将军。
丁父忧，服阕袭封，因请随军讨寿阳，除云麾将军，迁散骑常侍。
又别攻魏广陵城，平之，除信武将军、西豫州刺史，加轻车将军，除黄门侍郎，迁中军宣城王司马。
寻为都督北徐、仁、睢三州诸军事、信武将军、北徐州刺史。
征太子左卫率，兼卫尉卿，转少府卿。
卒，谥曰壮。
子政，承圣中，官至给事黄门侍郎。
江陵陷，随例入西魏。
之高字如山，邃兄中散大夫髦之子也。
起家州从事、新都令、奉朝请，迁参军。
颇读书，少负意气，常随叔父邃征讨，所在立功，甚为邃所器重，戎政咸以委焉。
寿阳之役，邃卒于军所，之高隶夏侯夔，平寿阳，仍除平北豫章长史、梁郡太守，封都城县男，邑二百五十户。
translation: 
Wei's generals guarding Shouyang, Chang Sun Zhi, and Wang Yuanchen of Hejian led an army of 50,000 people and came out of the city to challenge. Pei Sui led four generals to divide into four wings to wait for the Wei army. He ordered General Li Zulian to pretend to escape and lure Chang Sun Zhi. Chang Sun Zhi led all his troops to chase Li Zulian. During the attack, Pei Sui's ambushed four-wing troops were dispatched one after another, and the Wei army was severely defeated.
More than 10,000 people were beheaded.
Changsun Zhi and others ran for their lives. After returning to the city, they closed the city gate and held on, not daring to go out to fight again.
In May of the same year, Pei Sui died in the military camp.
He was forced to be given the title of Shizhong and Zuowei General, and he was given a propaganda department. He was promoted to the title of Marquis and added 700 households.
Mi Hao Lie.
Pei Sui was usually taciturn, unsmiling, deep-thinking, and strategic. He was tolerant and open-minded in politics and could win the heartfelt support of the soldiers.
He was upright and dignified, and the officers and officers respected him, and few dared to break the law.
After his death, all the people in Huaihe and Danshuijian shed tears. They believed that if Pei Sui had not died, Luoyang would not have been captured.
Pei Sui's son Pei Zhili, named Ziyi, was born in the middle of the imperial family. He was appointed as King Shaoling's constant servant of the left side of the country and Xinweixing joined the army.
When King Shaoling was appointed governor of Nanyan Prefecture, Pei Zhili was appointed Changliu to join the army. However, he did not take up the post. He still stayed in Suwei and was appointed as General Zhihe.
When his father passed away in the period of mourning, he assumed his father's title and requested to follow the army to conquer Shouyang. He was appointed General Yunhui and moved to the position of regular servant of Sanqi.
He also attacked Guangling City of Wei State and pacified the city of Weizuo. He was awarded the title of General Xinwu, Governor of Western Yuzhou, General Qingche, Minister of Huangmen, and was moved to Sima of King Xuanxu of the Chinese Army.
Soon he was appointed as the governor of the military affairs of Xuzhou, Renzhou and Suizhou in the north, General Xinwu, and the governor of Jiuzhimaggot.
Later, he was recruited to serve as the prince's left guard, concurrently as the Weiwei Qing, and then as the Shaofu Qing.
After Pei Zhishan died, Mi was named Zhuang.
His son Pei Zheng, during the Chengsheng period, was appointed as the Minister of Huangmen.
After the fall of Siduo, he entered Liwei as usual.
Pei Zhigao, also known as Rushan, was the son of Pei Sui's elder brother, Pei Mao, a doctor in Zhongsan.
When he first entered the officialdom, he served as a state official and Xindu county magistrate. At the invitation of the court, he moved to join the army.
Pei Zhigao read a lot of books. When he was young, he thought that his will and spirit were great. He often followed his uncle Pei Liao on his expeditions to the east and west. He made meritorious deeds wherever he went. He was highly regarded by Pei Sui, who entrusted him with all military and government affairs.
During the Battle of Shouyang, Pei Sui died in the military camp. Pei Zhigao was subordinate to Xiahou Kui and pacified Shouyang. He was awarded the title of Changshi of Yuzhang in Pingbei and the prefect of Liangjun. He was named the male of the capital county and had 250 households in the city.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
时魏汝阴来附，敕之高应接，仍除假节、飚勇将军、颍州刺史。
士民夜反，逾城而入，之高率家僮与麾下奋击，贼乃散走。
父忧还京。
起为光远将军，合讨阴陵盗贼，平之，以为谯州刺史。
又还为左军将军，出为南谯太守、监北徐州，迁员外散骑常侍。
寻除雄信将军、西豫州刺史，余如故。
侯景乱，之高率众入援，南豫州刺史、鄱阳嗣王范命之高总督江右援军诸军事，顿于张公洲。
柳仲礼至横江，之高遣船舸二百余艘迎致仲礼，与韦粲等俱会青塘立营，据建兴苑。
及城陷，之高还合肥，与鄱阳王范西上。
稍至新蔡，众将一万，未有所属。元帝遣萧慧正召之，以为侍中、护军将军。
到江陵，承制除特进、金紫光禄大夫。
卒，时年七十三。
赠侍中、仪同三司，鼓吹一部。
谥曰恭。
子畿，累官太子右卫率、隽州刺史。
西魏攻陷江陵，畿力战死之。
之平字如原，之高第五弟。
少亦随邃征讨，以军功封都亭侯。
历武陵王常侍、扶风、弘农二郡太守，不行，除谯州长史、阳平太守。
拒侯景，城陷后，迁散骑常侍、右卫将军、太子詹事。
之横字如岳，之高第十三弟也。
少好宾游，重气侠，不事产业。
之高以其纵诞，乃为狭被蔬食以激厉之。
之横叹曰： 大丈夫富贵，必作百幅被。
遂与僮属数百人，于芍陂大营田墅，遂致殷积。
translation: 
At that time, Ruyin of the Wei State came to join the Liang Dynasty. The emperor ordered Pei Zhigao to meet him and awarded him the title of Jiajie, General Biaoyong, and Governor of Yingzhou.
Some soldiers and civilians took advantage of the darkness to rebel and jumped over the wall. Pei Zhigao led his servants and subordinates to fight back hard, and the rebels fled.
Pei Zhigao returned to Kyoto because of his father's death.
He was appointed as General Lightspeed, participated in the crusade against the bandits in Yinling, and pacified the bandits, and Pei Zhigao was appointed as the governor of Qiaozhou.
He returned to Beijing and served as general of the Zuo Army, as governor of Nanqiao County, as supervisor of Northern Xuzhou, and as a regular servant of Yuanwai Sanqi.
Soon, he was awarded General Xiongxin and Governor of Western Yuzhou, but other official positions remained the same.
After the Hou Jing Rebellion broke out, Pei Zhigao led a large army into the city for rescue. Fan Ming, the governor of Southern Yuzhou and the successor king of Poyang, ordered the general manager of the tomb, Si You, to reinforce the troops and stationed them in Zhang Gongzhou.
When Liu Zhongli arrived at Hengsi, Pei Zhigao sent more than 200 ships to meet Su Kuishan. They met with Tong Sai and others, and they all set up camp in Zhishan and occupied Jianxing stem.
After the city was captured, Yuzhi's chef returned to Hedan and went westward upstream with Lu Rui, the king of Poyang.
When they first arrived at Qiancai, there were nearly 10,000 people in the army and no master. Emperor Yuan of Liang sent Xiao Huizheng to summon Pei Zhigao and appointed him as a servant and general guarding the army.
After Pei Zhigao arrived, he followed the emperor's will and was awarded the title of Tejin and Jin Ziguanglu.
Pei Zhuyin passed away at the age of seventy-three.
He was forced to be given the title of Shizhong and Yitong, as well as the Ministry of Propaganda.
Mi Hao Gong.
Pei Zhigao's son Pei Ji served as the prince's right guard and governor of Junzhou many times.
When the Western Wei Dynasty captured Jiangling, Pei Ji fought hard and died.
Pei Zhiping, also known as Ruyuan, is Pei Zhigao's fifth younger brother.
When he was young, he also followed Pei Sui on the expedition, and was named Dutinghou for his military merits.
He had successively served as the permanent attendant of King Wuling and the prefect of Fufeng and Hongnong counties. However, he did not take up the post and was awarded the title of Shi, the governor of Qiaozhou and the prefect of Yangping county.
He participated in the resistance against Hou Jing, and after the city was captured, he moved to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi, general of right guard, and prince Zhan Shi.
Pei Zhiheng, whose name is Ruyue, is Pei Zhigao's thirteenth younger brother.
When he was young, he liked to wander around. He valued chivalry and loyalty and was unwilling to engage in production.
Because of his absurd indulgence, Pei Zhigao made him a narrow quilt and fed him only vegetarian food to encourage him.
Pei Zhiheng sighed and said: "When I become rich, I must make a hundred quilts."
So he and Jiaxiang's several hundred servants came to Shaopi and reclaimed wasteland on a large scale, thus achieving wealth and accumulation.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
太宗在东宫，闻而要之，以为河东王常侍、直殿主帅，迁直阁将军。
侯景乱，出为贞威将军，隶鄱阳王范讨景。
景济江，仍与范长子嗣入援。
连营度淮，据东城。
京都陷，退还合肥，与范溯流赴湓城。
景遣任约上逼晋熙，范令之横下援，未及至，范薨，之横乃还。
时寻阳王大心在江州，范副梅思立密要大心袭湓城，之横斩思立而拒大心。
大心以州降景。
之横率众与兄之高同归元帝，承制除散骑常侍、廷尉卿，出为河东内史。
又随王僧辩拒侯景于巴陵，景退，迁持节、平北将军、东徐州刺史，中护军，封豫宁侯，邑三千户。
又随僧辩追景，平郢、鲁、江、晋等州，恒为前锋陷阵。
仍至石头，破景，景东奔，僧辩令之横与杜掞入守台城。
及陆纳据湘州叛，又隶王僧辩南讨焉。
于阵斩纳将李贤明，遂平之。
又破武陵王于硖口。
还除吴兴太守，乃作百幅被，以成其初志。
后江陵陷，齐遣上党王高涣挟贞阳侯攻东关，晋安王方智承制，以之横为使持节、镇北将军、徐州刺史，都督众军，给鼓吹一部，出守蕲城。
之横营垒未周，而齐军大至，兵尽矢穷，遂于阵没，时年四十一。
赠侍中、司空公，谥曰忠壮。
子凤宝嗣。
夏侯亶，字世龙，车骑将军详长子也。
齐初，起家奉朝请。
永元末，详为西中郎南康王司马，随府镇荆州，亶留京师，为东昏听政主帅。
及崔慧景作乱，亶以捍御功，除骁骑将军。
及高祖起师，详与长史萧颖胄协同义举，密遣信下都迎亶，亶乃赍宣德皇后令，令南康王纂承大统，封十郡为宣城王，进位相国，置僚属，选百官。
建康城平，以亶为尚书吏部郎，俄迁侍中，奉玺于高祖。
天监元年，出为宣城太守。
translation: 
When Xiao Gang, Taizong of Liang Dynasty, was still the prince, he heard about Pei Zhiheng and invited him to the capital. He was made a regular servant of the King of Hedong, the commander of the Zhidian Palace, and the general of Zhihe.
During Hou Jing's rebellion, Pei Zhiheng served as General Zhenwei, attached to Poyang King Xiao Fan, and joined him in the crusade against Hou Jing.
After Hou Jing crossed the Yangtze River, Pei Zhiheng and Xiao Fan's eldest son Xiao Si returned to Beijing for reinforcements.
They crossed the Huaihe River in a company and occupied Dongcheng.
After Kyoto was captured, Pei Zhiheng retreated back to Hefei, and together with Xiao Fan went upriver to Huancheng.
Hou Jing sent Ren Yue upriver to attack Jinxi, and Xiao Fan ordered Pei Zhiheng to go downstream to rescue him. Before reaching the destination, Xiao Fan died and Pei Zhiheng returned.
At that time, Xunyang King Xiao Daxin was in Jiangzhou. Xiao Fan's deputy general Mei Sili secretly invited Lu Quzu to attack. The tomb owner killed Chuang Moli and then resisted Xiao Daxin.
Xiao Daxin offered Jiangzhou to surrender to Hou Jing.
Pei Zhiheng led his troops and surrendered to Emperor Liang Yuan together with his brother Pei Zhigao. In accordance with the emperor's will, he was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi, a minister of Tingwei, and the internal history of Hedong County.
He also followed Wang Sengbian to resist Hou Jing in Baling. After Hou Jing retreated, Pei Zhi was moved to the post of Chijie, General Pingbei, Governor of Shuxuzhou, and Central Protector. He was named Qiongkong Fort and had a settlement of 3,000 households.
He also followed Wang Zhipan to pursue Zhuijing and pinged Ying, Lu, Jiang, Jin and other states. Pei Zhiheng always served as the vanguard and charged into the battle.
At the stone place, Jing was defeated and Jing ran away to the east. Monk Bianyi ordered Tomb Zhiheng and Siqi to enter the imperial wall to guard.
Later, Duiqu relied on his wings to rebel, and Tomb Zhangzhiheng followed Wang Sengbian to the south to attack Lu Na.
He killed Lu Na's general Li Xianming on the battlefield, thus quelling the Japanese rebellion.
Pei Zhiheng also defeated King Yawuling at Xikou.
After he came back, he was appointed as the prefect of Wuxing County and made a hundred quilts to realize his original wish.
Later, Jiangling was captured, and the Southern Qi Dynasty sent Gao Huan, the king of Shangdang, to support Marquis Zhenyang in attacking Shuguan. Xiao Fangzhi, king of Jin'an, followed the emperor's will and appointed Pei Zhiheng as envoy Chijie, general Zhenbei, governor of Xuzhou, and governor of the army. He was also sent to the Advocacy Department to go out of the capital to guard Qicheng.
Pei Zhiheng had not yet built the barricades of the military camp, but the Southern Qi army had already arrived. Most of the soldiers in Pei Zhiheng's team died in the battle, and their arrows were exhausted. Pei Zhiheng also died on the battlefield at the age of forty-one.
He was posthumously given the title of Shizhong and Sikong Gong, with the nickname Zhongzhuang.
He was succeeded by his son Xiao Fengbao.
Xiahou Dan, named Shilong, was the eldest son of the chariot general Xiahou Xiang.
In the early years of the Southern Qi Dynasty, Xia Houzhi left home to become an official and became an imperial minister.
At the end of the Yongyuan Dynasty, Xiahou Xiang was appointed Sima of King Nankang of Xizhonglang. He followed the palace to guard Jingzhou, while Xiahou stayed in the capital and served as the commander-in-chief of Shuhunhou.
During Cui Huijing's rebellion, Xiahou Xuan was awarded the title of General of Valiant Cavalry for his service in protecting the emperor.
When Emperor Gaozu raised a righteous army, Xia Houxiang and Chief Shi Xiao Yingzhou negotiated and jointly raised the righteous flag. They secretly sent messengers to Kyoto to welcome Xiahou Zhi. Xiahou Zhi carried a warrant from Queen Xuande and ordered King Nankang to compile the throne to inherit the emperor's rule.
After Jiankang City was pacified, Xia Houzhi was appointed Shangshu Libulang, and soon moved to the position of Shizhong. He dedicated the emperor's jade seal to Gaozu.
In the first year of Tianjian, Xia Houzhi served as the prefect of Xuancheng County.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
寻入为散骑常侍，领右骁骑将军。
六年，出为平西始兴王长史、南郡太守，父忧解职。
居丧尽礼，庐于墓侧，遗财悉推诸弟。
八年，起为持节、督司州诸军事、信武将军、司州刺史，领安陆太守。
服阕，袭封豊城县公。
居州甚有威惠，为边人所悦服。
十二年，以本号还朝，除都官尚书，迁给事中、右卫将军、领豫州大中正。
十五年，出为信武将军、安西长史、江夏太守。
十七年，入为通直散骑常侍、太子右卫率，迁左卫将军，领前军将军。
俄出为明威将军、吴兴太守。
在郡复有惠政，吏民图其像，立碑颂美焉。
普通三年，入为散骑常侍，领右骁骑将军，转太府卿，常侍如故。
以公事免，未几，优诏复职。
五年，迁中护军。
六年，大举北伐。先遣豫州刺史裴邃帅谯州刺史湛僧智、历阳太守明绍世、南谯太守鱼弘、晋熙太守张澄，并世之骁将，自南道伐寿阳城，未克而邃卒。
乃加亶使持节，驰驿代邃，与魏将河间王元琛、临淮王元彧等相拒，频战克捷。
寻有密敕，班师合肥，以休士马，须堰成复进。
七年夏，淮堰水盛，寿阳城将没，高祖复遣北道军元树帅彭宝孙、陈庆之等稍进，亶帅湛僧智、鱼弘、张澄等通清流涧，将入淮、肥。
魏军夹肥筑城，出亶军后，亶与僧智还袭，破之。
进攻黎浆，贞威将军韦放自北道会焉。
两军既合，所向皆降下。
凡降城五十二，获男女口七万五千人，米二十万石。
诏以寿阳依前代置豫州，合肥镇改为南豫州，以亶为使持节、都督豫州缘淮南豫霍义定五州诸军事、云麾将军、豫、南豫二州刺史。
寿春久罹兵荒，百姓多流散，亶轻刑薄赋，务农省役，顷之民户充复。
大通二年，进号平北将军。
三年，卒于州镇。
高祖闻之，即日素服举哀，赠车骑将军。
谥曰襄。
translation: 
Soon he was called to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi and concurrently as a general of Youxiaoqi.
In the sixth year, he served as the Changshi of King Shixing of Pingxi and the Grand Administrator of Nanjun. He was relieved of his duties due to the death of his father.
During the mourning period, he fully complied with the etiquette. He built a thatched shed next to his father's grave and lived in Baomian. He gave away all the property left by his father to his younger brothers.
In the eighth year, Xia Houzhi was appointed as Chijie, supervising the military affairs of Sizhou, general Xinwu, governor of Sizhou, and concurrently as the prefect of Anlu County.
After the mourning period expired, he was granted the title of Duke of Fengcheng County.
Xiahou Zhi was very dignified and helpful in his official position in the state, and he was favored by the people on the border.
In the twelfth year, he returned to the court with his original title, was awarded the title of Duguan Shangshu, and was transferred to General Shizhong and Youwei, and concurrently served as Yuzhou Dazhongzheng.
In the fifteenth year, he served as General Xinwu, Changshi of Anxi, and Grand Administrator of Jiangxia County.
In the seventeenth year, he was summoned to serve as a regular servant of Tongzhi Sanqi and the prince's right guard. He was moved to the left guard general and concurrently served as the former army general.
Soon he served as General Mingwei and Grand Administrator of Wuxing County.
He also implemented benevolent policies in his position as county governor. The officials and people in the county gave him a statue and set up stone tablets to praise his virtues.
In ordinary three years, he was summoned to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi and concurrently as a general of Youxiaoqi. He was transferred to the position of Taifuqing, and his position as a regular servant remained the same.
He was dismissed from office due to official affairs. Soon after, the emperor issued a special order to reinstate him.
Five years later, he was transferred to the Central Guards Army.
In the sixth year of the Liang Dynasty's large-scale Northern Expedition, he first sent Pei Sui, the governor of Yuzhou, to lead Zhan Sengzhi, the governor of Qiaozhou, Ming Shaoshi, the prefect of Liyang County, Yu Hong, the prefect of Nanqiao County, and Zhang Cheng, the prefect of Jinxi County. These people were all talented generals in the world. They attacked Shouyang City from the south road, but Pei Sui died before they could capture it.
He appointed Xia Houzhi as the envoy to hold the festival, and rode forward to replace Pei Sui. He fought with the Wei generals Hejian Wang Yuanchen and Linhuai Wang Yuanor. He fought frequently and won every time.
Soon, the emperor issued a secret order for them to return to Fei so that the soldiers and horses could rest and wait until the weir was built before marching.
In the summer of the seventh year, the water in the Huaihe River dike was so heavy that the city of Shouyang was about to be submerged. Emperor Gaozu sent the Northern Army Yuanshu to lead Peng Zhousun, Chen Qingzhi and others to gradually advance.
The Soviet army built city walls along both sides of Danba Cheng and rushed out from behind the Xia royal army. Xiahou Zhiyu Zhan Sengzhi returned to attack and defeated the Wei army.
They also attacked Lijing, and Liang Zhenwei's general Wei Fang came from the North Road to join Xiahou's direct troops.
After the two armies joined together, wherever they went, all Wei troops surrendered and the city was captured.
A total of fifty-two cities surrendered, and 75,000 men and women were captured, with rice and 200,000 stones.
The emperor issued an edict to establish Qiongcong in Shouyang Dynasty according to the system of the previous dynasty, and changed Hedanyan to Muliaochuan. He appointed Emperor Xiabao as envoy Chijie, governor of Yuzhou and the military affairs of the five states along the Huaihe River, Huozhou, Yizhou, and Yuchu, and general Yunhui, Suiye, and Luqiongye.
The Shouchun area had long been devastated by war, and most of the people were dispersed. Xiahou Zhi implemented the policy of mitigating penalties and lowering taxes, allowing the people to work hard on farming and save themselves from labor. Soon, the people's household registration funds expanded to the original scale.
In the second year of Datong, Xia Shi Huangjin was titled General Pingbei.
Three years later, he died in office in the state town.
When Emperor Wu of Liang, the founder of the family, heard the bad news, he wore plain clothes to mourn on that day and posthumously awarded him the title of General of Chariots and Cavalry.
The name of Mi is Xiang.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
州民夏侯简等五百人表请为亶立碑置祠，诏许之。
亶为人美风仪，宽厚有器量，涉猎文史，辩给能专对。
宗人夏侯溢为衡阳内史，辞日，亶侍御坐，高祖谓亶曰： 夏侯溢于卿疏近？
禀答曰： 是臣从弟。
高祖知溢于亶已疏，乃曰： 卿伧人，好不辨族从。
亶对曰： 臣闻服属易疏，所以不忍言族。
时以为能对。
亶历为六郡三州，不修产业，禄赐所得，随散亲故。
性俭率，居处服用，充足而已，不事华侈。
晚年颇好音乐，有妓妾十数人，并无被服姿容。
每有客，常隔帘奏之，时谓帘为夏侯妓衣也。
亶二子：谊，损。
谊袭封豊城公，历官太子舍人，洗马。
太清中，侯景入寇，谊与弟损帅部曲入城，并卒围内。
夔字季龙，亶弟也。
起家齐南康王府行参军。
中兴初，迁司徒属。
天监元年，为太子洗马，中舍人，中书郎。
丁父忧，服阕，除大匠卿，知造太极殿事。
普通元年，为邵陵王信威长史，行府国事。
其年，出为假节、征远将军，随机北讨，还除给事黄门侍郎。
二年，副裴邃讨义州，平之。
三年，代兄亶为吴兴太守，寻迁假节、征远将军、西阳、武昌二郡太守。
七年，征为卫尉，未拜，改授持节、督司州诸军事、信武将军、司州刺史，领安陆太守。
translation: 
Five hundred people including Xiahou Jian, a state citizen, petitioned the emperor to build a temple for Xiahou with an erect stele, and the emperor issued an edict to allow it.
Xiahou Zhi was personable, handsome in appearance, generous in temperament, and very generous. He dabbled in literature and history, was eloquent, and could answer questions.
Xia Houyi, who was of the same clan as him, served as the internal history of Hengyang County. On the day he bid farewell to the emperor, Xia Houzhi sat beside the emperor. Emperor Wu of Liang, the great ancestor, said to Xia Houzhi: Is the relationship between Xia Houyi and you distant or close?
Xia Houyi replied: He is my cousin.
Emperor Gaozu knew that Xia Houyi was estranged from Xia Houzhi, so he said: You, a northerner, can't tell the difference between you and your fellow clan members.
Xia Houxuan replied: I heard that brothers and sisters in the same service are easy to alienate, so I can't bear to say that they are the same clan.
At the time, people thought he was good at coping.
Xiahou Yi served as governor of six counties and three states. He did not save any property for himself. Instead, he casually distributed the official salary and emperor's rewards to his relatives and friends.
He is frugal by nature. The place he lives in and the clothing and supplies are just enough for his needs. He does not pursue luxury or luxury.
Xia Houzhi loved music very much in his later years. He kept more than a dozen geishas and concubines, all of whom had no good looks or clothes.
Whenever guests came, the geishas would play music through the curtains. People at that time said that the curtains were the clothes of the Xiahou geishas.
Xia Houyi had two sons: Xiahou Yi and Xiahou Sun.
Xia Houyi granted the title of Duke of Fengcheng and successively held official positions such as Prince Sheren and Horse Washing.
During the Taiqing period, Hou Jing rebelled and invaded the capital. Xia Houyi and his younger brother Xia Houshen led their troops into the capital to fight. Both of them died in the siege.
Xiahou Kui, courtesy name Ji Long, was the younger brother of Xiahou Xuan.
He just left home and became an official, and took up the post of King Nankang of the Southern Qi Dynasty to join the army.
In the early years of the Zhongxing Dynasty, he was moved to Situ.
In the first year of Tianjian, he was appointed Prince Xima, Zhongsheren, and Zhongshulang.
After his father passed away, he mourned for his father. After the mourning period was over, he was awarded the title of Master Craftsman and took charge of the construction of Tai Chi Hall.
In the first year of the ordinary year, he was appointed as the chief official of King Shaoling and carried out the affairs of the state.
In the year of dispatch, he served as the general of holiday and expedition, and randomly went to the north for expedition. After returning, he was awarded the title of Minister of Huangmen.
In the second year, as Pei Sui's adjutant, he assisted in the expedition against Zhanye and pacified Zhankai.
Three years later, he replaced his brother Xia Baozhi as the governor of Yuxingxing. Soon after, he was moved to the post of governor of Jiajie, Zhengyuan general, and the governor of the two counties of Xidan trapped Dansu.
In the seventh year, he was conscripted as a Weiwei, but without any official title, he was appointed as Chijie, Supervisor of all military affairs in Sizhou, General Xinwu, Governor of Sizhou, and concurrently as the prefect of Anlu County.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
八年，敕夔帅壮武将军裴之礼、直阁将军任思祖出义阳道，攻平静、穆陵、阴山三关，克之。
是时谯州刺史湛僧智围魏东豫州刺史元庆和于广陵，入其郛。
魏将元显伯率军赴援，僧智逆击破之，夔自武阳会僧智，断魏军归路。
庆和于内筑栅以自固，及夔至，遂请降。
夔让僧智，僧智曰： 庆和志欲降公，不愿降僧智，今往必乖其意；且僧智所将为乌合募人，不可御之以法。
公持军素严，必无犯令，受降纳附，深得其宜。
于是夔乃登城拔魏帜，建官军旗鼓，众莫敢妄动，庆和束兵以出，军无私焉。
凡降男女口四万余人，粟六十万斛，余物称是。
显伯闻之夜遁，众军追之，生擒二万余人，斩获不可胜数。
诏以僧智领东豫州，镇广陵。
夔引军屯安阳。
夔又遣偏将屠楚城，尽俘其众，由是义阳北道遂与魏绝。
大通二年，魏郢州刺史元愿达请降，高祖敕郢州刺史元树往迎愿达，夔亦自楚城会之，遂留镇焉。
诏改魏郢州为北司州，以夔为刺史，兼督司州。
三年，迁使持节，进号仁威将军，封保城县侯，邑一千五百户。
中大通二年，征为右卫将军，丁所生母忧去职。
时魏南兗州刺史刘明以谯城入附，诏遣镇北将军元树帅军应接，起夔为云麾将军，随机北讨。
寻授使持节、督南豫州诸军事、南豫州刺史。
六年，转使持节、督豫、淮、陈、颍、建、霍、义七州诸军事、豫州刺史。
豫州积岁寇戎，人颇失业，夔乃帅军人于苍陵立堰，溉田千余顷。岁收谷百余万石，以充储备，兼赡贫人，境内赖之。
夔兄亶先经此任，至是夔又居焉。
兄弟并有恩惠于乡里，百姓歌之曰： 我之有州，频仍夏侯；前兄后弟，布政优优。
在州七年，甚有声绩，远近多附之。
有部曲万人，马二千匹，并服习精强，为当时之盛。
translation: 
In the eighth year, the emperor ordered Xiahou Kui to lead Zhuangwu General Pei Zhili and Zhihe General Ren Sizu from Yiyang Road to attack the three passes of Pingping, Muling and Yinshan, and finally captured these three passes.
At this time, Zhan Sengzhi, the governor of Qiaozhou, surrounded Yuan Qinghe, the governor of Yuzhou, Shu State, in Guangling, and entered its outer city.
Wei general Yuan Haobo led his army to rescue. Zhan Sengzhi met the Wei army and defeated the team. Xiahou Kui came from Wuyang to join Zhan Sengzhi and cut off the Wei army's retreat.
Yuan Qinghe built a fence in the city to strengthen his defense facilities. When Xiahou Kui arrived, Yuan Qinghe asked for surrender.
Xiahou Kui wanted to give the credit to Zhan Sengzhi. Zhan Sengzhi said: Yuan Qinghe wants to surrender to you, but is not willing to surrender to me, Sengzhi. If I accept his surrender today, it will definitely be against his will; and I, Sengzhi, command a ragtag group of people recruited and cannot command the surrendering army according to the law.
You have always been very strict in managing the army. No one dares to disobey orders. It is most appropriate for you to accept surrender and surrender.
Therefore, Xia Houkui climbed up the city wall, pulled down the flags of the Wei army, and raised the banners and drums of the Liang Dynasty army. No one dared to act rashly. Yuan Qinghe rectified his troops and left the city, and no one in the army engaged in secret activities.
The total number of men and women who surrendered was more than 40,000, and they had 600,000 hu of millet, and the rest of the items were roughly the same.
After Yuan Xianbo heard the news, he ran away overnight. The Liang Dynasty army pursued him closely, capturing more than 20,000 people alive and killing countless others.
The emperor ordered Zhan Sengzhi to take charge of Yuzhou and guard Guangling.
Xiahou Kui led the army to station in Anyang.
Xiahou Kui sent his generals to massacre Chu City and captured all the troops. From then on, the North Road of Yiyang was cut off from the Wei State.
In the second year of Datong, Wei Yuan Yuanda, the governor of Yingzhou, requested to surrender to the Liang Dynasty. Emperor Wu of Liang ordered Yuanshu, the governor of Yingzhou, to greet Yuan Yuanda. Xiahou Kui also came from Chu City to join him, so he stayed in the county to guard.
The emperor ordered Wei Ying Prefecture to be changed to Beisi Prefecture, and appointed Xiahou Kui as the governor of Beisi Prefecture and to supervise Si Prefecture.
In the third year, he was transferred to the envoy Chijie and was granted the title of General Renwei. He was granted the title of Marquis of Baocheng County with a settlement of 1,500 households.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was recruited as a right-guard general, but resigned due to the death of his biological mother.
At that time, Liu Ming, the governor of Southern Yanzhou of Wei State, surrendered to the Liang Dynasty with Qiao City. The emperor ordered to send General Yuan Shu of Zhenbei to lead the army to respond. He appointed Xiahou Kui as General Yunhui to act according to the opportunity and crusade against the north.
Soon, Xia Houkui was appointed as the envoy Chijie, supervising the military affairs of southern Yuzhou, and the governor of southern Yuzhou.
In the sixth year, he was transferred to the envoy Chijie, in charge of the military affairs of the seven states of Yuzhou, Huaizhou, Chenzhou, Banzhou, Jianzhou, Huozhou and Yizhou, and the governor of Yuzhou.
Yuzhou had been invaded by wars for many years, and most people were unemployed. Xia Houkui led his troops to build a dike in Canngling, irrigated more than a thousand hectares of fields with water, and harvested more than one million shi of millet a year later, which was used as a reserve and to provide for poor families. The people in the territory relied on him to survive.
Xiahou Kui's elder brother Xia Houzhi had previously held this official position, and now Xiahou Kui is in this position again.
Both brothers left benevolence to the village, and the common people sang songs to praise them: "I have a state, and I often stay in Xiahou; the former brother and the latter brother are good administrators."
Xia Houkui served as an official in the state for seven years. He made great achievements and gained a good reputation. People near and far relied on him.
There were a total of 10,000 troops and 2,000 horses. These people were all elite soldiers and generals who were good at riding and shooting. It became a grand event at that time.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
性奢豪，后房伎妾曳罗縠饰金翠者亦有百数。
爱好人士，不以贵势自高，文武宾客常满坐，时亦以此称之。
大同四年，卒于州，时年五十六。
有诏举哀，赙钱二十万，布二百匹。
追赠侍中、安北将军。
谥曰桓。
子撰嗣，官至太仆卿。
撰弟譒，少粗险薄行，常停乡里，领其父部曲，为州助防，刺史萧渊明引为府长史。
渊明彭城战没，复为侯景长史。
景寻举兵反，譒前驱济江，顿兵城西士林馆，破掠邸第及居人富室，子女财货，尽略有之。
渊明在州有四妾，章、于、王、阮，并有国色。
渊明没魏，其妾并还京第，譒至，破第纳焉。
鱼弘，襄阳人。
身长八尺，白皙美姿容。
累从征讨，常为军锋，历南谯、盱眙、竟陵太守。
常语人曰： 我为郡，所谓四尽：水中鱼鳖尽，山中麞鹿尽，田中米谷尽，村里民庶尽。
丈夫生世，如轻尘栖弱草，白驹之过隙。
人生欢乐富贵几何时！
于是恣意酣赏，侍妾百余人，不胜金翠，服玩车马，皆穷一时之绝。
迁为平西湘东王司马、新兴、永宁二郡太守，卒官。
韦放，字元直，车骑将军睿之子。
初为齐晋安王宁朔迎主簿，高祖临雍州，又召为主簿。
放身长七尺七寸，腰带八围，容貌甚伟。
天监元年，为盱眙太守，还除通直郎，寻为轻车晋安王中兵参军，迁镇右始兴王谘议参军，以父忧去职。
服阕，袭封永昌县侯，出为轻车南平王长史、襄阳太守。
translation: 
Xia Houkui had a bold and extravagant temperament. He had hundreds of geisha and concubines in his back room, all dressed in silk clothes and decorated with gold and jade jewelry.
He also liked to make friends with people and never regarded himself as aloof because of his high official position. His home was often full of distinguished guests, including civil and military officials. People at that time also praised him for this.
In the fourth year of Datong, Xia Houkui died in Yuzhou at the age of fifty-six.
The emperor held a mourning ceremony in Shao, and gave him 200,000 yuan for the funeral and 200 pieces of cloth.
He was posthumously given the title of Shizhong and General Anbei.
Mi Hao Huan.
Xiahou Kui's son Xia Houzan succeeded him and became an official to the rank of Taipuqing.
Xiahouzan's younger brother, Xiahoufan, was rough and frivolous in his youth. He often stayed in the countryside, leading his father's troops and acting as a defense support for Zhouxiang. The governor Xiao Yuanming chose him as the governor of the government.
After Xiao Yuanming died in the battle of Pengcheng, Xiahou Pu became Hou Jing's long history again.
Soon, Hou Jing raised his troops to rebel, and Xia Houyu was the first to cross the river as a pioneer. He stopped his troops at the Shilin Pavilion in the west of the capital, broke into the mansions, and the wealthy families among the people, and plundered them, taking all their children, property, and goods.
Xiao Yuanming had four concubines in the state, Zhang, Yu, Wang and Ruan, all of whom were very beautiful.
After Xiao Yuanming died in the battle of Wei, all his concubines returned to his mansion in the capital. After the Xiahou Zhus arrived, they entered the mansion and took them all as their concubines.
Yu Hong is from Xiangyang.
He was eight feet tall, fair-skinned, and handsome.
He followed the emperor on many expeditions, often served as the vanguard of the army, and served successively as the prefect of Nanqiao County, Xuyi County, and Jingling County.
He often said to others: When I am a county guard, there are so-called four erasures: the fish and turtles are all in the water, the deer and deer are in the mountains, the rice and grain are in the fields, and the people are all in the villages.
A man's life in this world is as light as a speck of dust settling in the grass, and as short-lived as a white horse jumping over a mountain gap.
How long can we enjoy the joy and wealth of life!
Therefore, he drank wine and rewards as much as he wanted, and had more than a hundred concubines. He was rich in gold, silver, pearls and jade, and his clothes, toys, carriages and horses were all top-notch at the time.
Yu Hongqian was appointed Sima of the King of Pingxi Xiangdong and the prefect of Xinxing and Yongning counties. He died in his official position.
Wei Fang, whose courtesy name is Yuan Zhi, is the son of Wei Rui, a general on horseback.
He first served as the chief clerk of Ning Shuo of King An of Qi and Jin Dynasty. When Emperor Gaozu came to Yuzhou, he called him as the chief clerk.
Wei Fang is seven feet seven inches tall, has an eight-gauge belt, and has a very majestic appearance.
In the first year of Tianjian, he served as the prefect of Xuyi County. After returning to Beijing, he was awarded Tongzhilang. Soon he was appointed as a soldier of Qingchao King Jin'an to join the army. He moved to Zhenyou as a consultant to King Shixing to join the army. He resigned due to the death of his father.
After the mourning period expired, he was granted the title of Marquis of Yongchang County and served as the chief historian of Qingchetong King and the prefect of Xiangyang County.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
转假节、明威将军、竟陵太守。
在郡和理，为吏民所称。
六年，大举北伐，以放为贞威将军，与胡龙牙会曹仲宗进军。
七年，夏侯亶攻黎浆不克，高祖复使帅军自北道会寿春城。
寻迁云麾南康王长史、寻阳太守。
放累为籓佐，并著声绩。
普通八年，高祖遣兼领军曹仲宗等攻涡阳，又以放为明威将军，帅师会之。
魏大将费穆帅众奄至，放军营未立，麾下止有二百余人。
放从弟洵骁果有勇力，一军所仗，放令洵单骑击刺，屡折魏军，洵马亦被伤不能进，放胄又三贯流矢。
众皆失色，请放突去。
放厉声叱之曰： 今日唯有死耳。
乃免胄下马，据胡床处分。
于是士皆殊死战，莫不一当百。
魏军遂退，放逐北至涡阳。
魏又遣常山王元昭、大将军李奖、乞佛宝、费穆等众五万来援，放率所督将陈度、赵伯超等夹击，大破之。
涡阳城主王纬以城降。
放乃登城，简出降口四千二百人，器仗充牜刃；又遣降人三十，分报李奖、费穆等。
魏人弃诸营垒，一时奔溃，众军乘之，斩获略尽。
擒穆弟超，并王纬送于京师。
还为太子右卫率，转通直散骑常侍。
出为持节、督梁、南秦二州诸军事、信武将军、梁、南秦二州刺史。
中大通二年，徙督北徐州诸军事、北徐州刺史，增封四百户，持节、将军如故。
在镇三年，卒，时年五十九。
谥曰宜侯。
放性弘厚笃实，轻财好施，于诸弟尤雍睦。
translation: 
He was transferred to the post of General Jiajie, General Mingwei, and Grand Administrator of Jingling County.
During his tenure in the county, his administration was tolerant and orderly, and he was praised by officials and people.
In the sixth year, the army launched a large-scale northern expedition, appointed Wei Fang as General Zhenwei, and marched north with Xuan Jiansai and Su Longyou.
In the seventh year, Emperor Xia Mai failed to attack Biezhen, so Emperor Wu of Liang sent him to lead the army from North Road to rendezvous in Shouchun City.
Soon, Wei Fang was moved to serve as the long history of King Yunhui's mother Chen and the prefect of Yaopeng.
Huang Jie assisted the feudal king in his work many times and was famous for his achievements every time.
In the eighth year of ordinary times, Emperor Gaozu Liang Wu sent and led troops such as Ji Tuusei to attack Guoyang, and appointed Wei Fang as General Mingwei to lead the army and join Cao Zhongzong.
General Yilong of the Yun Army suddenly arrived with his army, but Guoyang's military camp had not yet been established and he had only more than 200 people under his command.
Wei Fang's cousin Wei Xun was brave, courageous and powerful, and was the support of the entire army. Tong Tomb ordered Wei Hui to attack Yun's army with a single horse and a spear. As a result, the Wei army was defeated many times. Wei Xun's mount was also injured and could not move forward. At this time, Wei Gan's helmet was hit by three random arrows.
Everyone was in panic and asked Wei Fang to break out.
Wei Fang sternly reprimanded them and said: Today we can only fight to the death.
He took off his helmet, jumped off his horse, and sat on the throne to direct the battle. therefore.
The soldiers all fought desperately, one against a hundred.
The Wei army then began to retreat, and Tong Gan pursued the deserters all the way to Guoyang.
The Wei army also sent Changshan Wang Yuanzhao, generals Li Jie, Qifushi, Fei Mu and others with an army of 50,000 to come to aid. Wei Fang led his generals Chen Du, Tang Bochao and others to attack the Wei army from a flank and defeated the Wei army.
Wang Wei, the lord of Guoyang City, surrendered to the city.
Wei Fang climbed up the city wall, selected 4,200 people who surrendered, and issued weapons to each of them. He also sent 30 people who surrendered to report the news to Li Jie, Fei Mu and others.
When the soldiers of the Wei army heard the news, they immediately collapsed and fled in all directions. At this time, Wei Fang's army took advantage of the victory and pursued them, killing almost all of the Wei army and taking prisoners.
He captured Fei Mu's younger brother Fei Chao and escorted him and Wang Wei to the capital.
After Huang Jie returned to the capital, he was led by the crown prince's right guard and then transferred to Tongzhi Sanqi Changshi.
He also served as Chijie, supervising the military affairs of Liangzhou and Nanqinzhou, general Xinwu, and governor of Liangzhou and Nanqinzhou.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was appointed as the governor of all military affairs and the governor of North Xuzhou. Four hundred households were added to the fiefdom, but his duties as a general and a general remained as before.
After three years in office, Wei Fang died at the age of fifty-nine.
His nickname is Yihou.
Wei Fang has a generous and honest character, takes money very lightly, likes to give charity, and is especially harmonious with his younger brothers.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
每将远别及行役初还，常同一室卧起，时称为 三姜 。
初，放与吴郡张率皆有侧室怀孕，因指为婚姻。
其后各产男女，未及成长而率亡，遗嗣孤弱，放常赡恤之。
及为北徐州，时有势族请姻者，放曰： 吾不失信于故友。
乃以息岐娶率女，又以女适率子，时称放能笃旧。
长子粲嗣，别有传。
史臣曰：裴邃之词采早著，兼思略沉深，夏侯禀之好学辩给，夔之奢豪爱士，韦放之弘厚笃行，并遇主逢时，展其才用矣。
及牧州典郡，破敌安边，咸著功绩，允文武之任，盖梁室之名臣欤。
translation: 
Whenever he returned from a long trip or went to war, he would always wrap up and sleep in a room with his brothers. At that time, people called them "Three Jiangs".
At first, the concubines of Wei Fang and Cheng Xingren were both pregnant, so they got married on their own.
Later, the two concubines gave birth to a boy and a girl respectively. Before they grew up, Zhang Shu passed away, leaving behind a widow and orphaned children. Wei Fang often went to help and care for them.
After Wei Fang was appointed governor of Northern Xuzhou, a powerful family wanted to marry Wei Fang. Tong Su said: I can't break my promise to my dead old friend.
He asked his son Wei Qi to marry Zhang Su's daughter, and then married his own daughter to Zhang Su's son. At that time, people praised Wei Fang for being nostalgic and loyal to his old friends.
Wei Fang's eldest son Wei Can succeeded him, and there are other legends.
Shi Chen said: Pei Sui's poetry and literary talent have long been famous, and he also has profound thoughts and strategies; Xia Houyi is studious and eloquent;
As for serving as state and county officials, presiding over their affairs, and defeating the enemy and pacifying the border areas, they all have merit and achievements, which is indeed in line with their civil and military positions. They should be famous officials of the Liang Dynasty.


