Summary uses chunk [0, 9, 12, 11]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝章皇帝八子：宋贵人生清河孝王庆，梁贵人生和帝，申贵人生济北惠王寿、河间孝王开，四王不载母氏。
千乘贞王伉，建初四年封。
和帝即位，以伉长兄，甚见尊礼立十五年薨。
子宠嗣，一名伏胡。
永元七年，改国名乐安。
立二十八年薨，是为夷王。
父子薨于京师，皆葬洛阳。
子鸿嗣，安帝崩，始就国。
鸿生质帝，质帝立，梁太后下诏，以乐安国土卑湿，租委鲜薄，改封鸿勃海王。
立二十六年薨，是为孝王。
无子，太后立桓帝弟蠡吾侯悝为勃海王，奉鸿祀。
延熹八年，悝谋为不道，有司请废之。帝不忍，乃贬为陶王，食一县。
悝后因中常侍王甫求复国，许谢钱五千万。
帝临崩，遗诏复为勃海王。
悝知非甫功，不肯还谢钱。
甫怒，阴求其过。
初，迎立灵帝，道路流言悝恨不得立，欲抄征书，而中常侍郑飒、中黄门董腾并任侠通剽轻，数与悝交通。
王甫司察，以为有奸，密告司隶校尉段颎。
熹平元年，遂收飒送北寺狱。
使尚书令廉忠诬奏飒等谋迎立悝，大逆不道。
遂招冀州刺史收悝考实，又遣大鸿胪持节与宗正、廷尉之勃海，迫责悝。悝自杀。
translation: 
◆Biography of the Eight Kings of Emperor Zhang, Emperor Xiaozhang’s eight sons: Song Gui was born as Xiao Wang Liu Qing of Qinghe, Liang Gui was born as Emperor Liu Zhao, Shen Gui was born as King Hui of Jibei Liu Shou, and King Xiao of Hejian Liu Kai. The other four kings do not remember their mother's name.
Liu and his wife, the king of Qianchengzhen, were granted the title in the fourth year of Jianchu.
Emperor He ascended the throne. Because Liu and his wife were the eldest brothers, they respected him very much and treated him with courtesy. He died in the fifteenth year of his life.
His son Liu Chong succeeded to the throne. Liu Chong was named Fu Hu.
In the seventh year of Yongyuan, the country was renamed Le'an.
He died in the twenty-eighth year of his reign and became the king of Yi.
Both father and son died in the capital and were buried in Luoyang.
His son Liu Hong succeeded to the throne. Emperor An Liu Hu passed away before he left for his country.
Liu Hong gave birth to Emperor Liu Zan. After Emperor Zhi was established, the Empress Dowager of Liang issued an edict, believing that the land of Le'an was despicable and humid, and there were too few rents and taxes, so she changed the title of Liu Hongbo to King of Hai.
He died in the twenty-sixth year of his reign and was named King Xiao.
Prince Xiao had no children, so the Empress Dowager made Emperor Huan Liu Zhi's younger brother Liwuhou Liu Kui the King of Bohai to serve Liu Hong's sacrifices.
In the eighth year of Yanxi's reign, Liu Kui conspired and the relevant officials requested that Liu Kui be deposed. Emperor Zhi could not bear to depose him, so he demoted him to the title of King Ying Tao and had to pay the tax of a county.
Later, Liu Kui wanted to rely on Wang Fu, the official official of Zhongchang, to restore his feudal state, and promised to give him 50 million yuan as a gift to thank him.
Emperor Zhi was about to die and issued an edict to restore Liu Kui to the throne of Bohai.
Liu Kui knew that it was not Wang Fu's credit, so he refused to thank Wang Fu for the money.
Wang Fu became angry and secretly collected Liu Kui's crimes.
At first, when the Ling Emperor Liu Hong was proclaimed, there were rumors on the road that Liu Kui did not establish himself as emperor, but held a grudge and wanted to seize the conscription documents by force. Both Zhong Chang Shi Zheng Sa and Zhong Huangmen Dong Teng had the courage to associate righteousness with the strong and light men, and colluded with Liu Kui many times.
Wang Fu conducted reconnaissance and thought there must be a conspiracy, so he secretly reported it to Duan Zhen, the captain of Sili School.
In the first year of Xiping, Zheng Sa was arrested and sent to Beisi Prison.
The minister ordered Lian Zhong to submit a report to slander Zheng Sa and other plots to welcome Liu Kui, which was a treasonous act.
So he ordered the governor of Jizhou to arrest Liu Kui and question him about the implementation. He also sent Dahong Zhijie, Zongzheng and Tingwei to Bohai to force Liu Kui to denounce him, and Liu Kui committed suicide.

summary:
summary line 0: The text details the lives and fates of Emperor Zhang's eight sons, focusing on the lineages of several kings. Liu Qing, King Xiao of Qinghe, was born to Noble Consort Song. His mother and aunt were favored by Emperor Zhang but were framed by Empress Dou after the death of Empress Dowager Ma, leading to their forced suicide. Liu Qing was deposed as crown prince in favor of his half-brother Liu Zhao (Emperor He). Despite this, Liu Qing maintained a close and respectful relationship with Emperor He, who treated him with great favor and trust. Liu Qing was known for his filial piety, caution, and grief over his mother's unjust death, often making private sacrifices. He died at age 29 and was buried in Guangqiu. His son Liu Hu succeeded him but died without heirs, leading to the appointment of Liu Yanping, son of Liu Chong, as King of Qinghe. Later, Liu Qing was posthumously honored as Emperor Xiaode, and his mother as Empress Jingyin.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
和帝遵肃宗故事，兄弟皆留京师，恩宠笃密。
有司请遣诸王归籓，不忍许之，及帝崩，乃就国。
永初元年，邓太后封寿舅申转为新亭侯。
寿立三十一年薨，自永初己后，戎狄叛乱，国用不足，始封王薨，减赙钱为千万，布万区；嗣王薨五百万，布五千匹。
时，唯寿最尊亲，特赙钱三千万，布三万匹。
子节王登嗣。
永宁元年，封登弟五人为乡侯，皆别食太山邑。
登立十五年薨，子哀王多嗣。
多立三年薨，无子。
永和四年，立战乡侯安国为济北王，是为王。
安国立七年薨，子孝王次嗣。
本初元年，封次弟猛为亭侯。
次九岁丧父，至孝。
建和元年，梁太后下诏曰： 济北王次以幼年守籓，躬履孝道，父没哀恸，焦毁过礼，草庐土席，衰杖在身，头不批沐，体生疮肿。
谅暗已来二十八月，自诸国有忧，未之闻也，朝廷甚嘉焉。
translation: 
Emperor He abided by Suzong's old custom, and his brothers all stayed in the capital, and their love was extremely close.
The officials asked the kings to return to the feudal kingdom, but the emperor could not bear them leaving. He waited until the emperor died before returning to the feudal kingdom.
In the first year of Yongchu, Empress Dowager Deng granted Liu Shou's uncle Shen Zhuan the title of Marquis of Xinting.
Liu Shouli passed away in the 31st year of his reign. Since Yongchu, Rong and Di rebelled, and the country's finances were insufficient. When the newly crowned king passed away, the funeral expenses were reduced to tens of millions and ten thousand pieces of cloth. When the king who succeeded the throne died, the money was five million and five thousand pieces of cloth.
At this time, only Liu Shou respected his relatives the most, and specially sent him 30 million yuan for funeral expenses and 30,000 pieces of cloth.
Zijie King Liu ascended to the throne.
In the first year of Yongning, Liu Deng's five younger brothers were granted the title of Marquis of the Countryside, and all of them were taxed in Taishan.
Liu Dengli passed away in the fifteenth year, and Prince Ai Wang Liu Duo succeeded to the throne.
Liu Duoli died three years ago without any sons.
In the fourth year of Yonghe's reign, Liu Anguo, the marquis of Zhanxiang, was appointed King of Jibei, and was named King of Li.
Liu An passed away seven years after the founding of the People's Republic of China, and his son Xiao Wang Liu Ci succeeded to the throne.
In the first year of Benchu, Liu Meng, Liu Ci's younger brother, was granted the title of Tinghou.
Liu Ci lost his father when he was nine years old, and he has the most filial nature.
In the first year of Jianhe, the Empress Dowager of Liang issued an edict saying: King Liu Ci of Jibei spent his childhood guarding the vassal state and practicing filial piety. When his father died, he mourned excessively. He lived in a thatched hut, sitting and lying on earthen mats, never leaving his mourning stick, and his hair was not combed or washed, which resulted in sores and swelling on his body.
Since the beginning of mourning, in the 28th month of the twelfth month, since every feudal country has mourned, I have never heard of anyone like him.

summary:
summary line 1: Liu Shou, King Hui of Jibei, was born to Noble Consort Shen. He was granted his kingdom in the second year of Yongyuan. Emperor He, following his father's customs, kept his brothers in the capital, and they were very close. Liu Shou died after 31 years as king. His descendants included Liu Deng, Liu Duo (who died without sons), and Liu Anguo, who was appointed king. Liu Ci, son of Liu Anguo, was noted for his extreme filial piety during his father's mourning, for which Empress Dowager Liang granted him an additional 5,000 households. The Jibei line ended when Liu Zheng died without sons in the eleventh year of Jian'an.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
永建五年，父开上书，愿分蠡吾县以封翼，顺帝从之。
翼卒，子志嗣，为大将军梁冀所立，是为桓帝。
梁太后诏追尊河间孝王为孝穆皇，夫人赵氏曰孝穆后，庙曰清庙，陵曰乐成陵；蠡吾先侯曰孝崇皇，庙曰列庙，陵曰博陵。
皆置令、丞，使司徒持节奉策书、玺绶，祠以太牢。
建和二年，更封帝弟都乡侯硕为平原王，留博陵，奉翼后。
尊翼夫人马氏为孝崇博园贵人，以涿郡之良乡、故安，河间之蠡吾三县为汤沐邑。
硕嗜酒，多过失，帝令马贵人领王家事。
建安十一年，国除。
解渎亭侯淑，以河间孝王子封。
淑卒，子嗣。
卒，子宏嗣，为大将军窦武所立，是为灵帝。
建宁元年，窦太后诏追遵皇祖淑为孝元皇，夫人夏氏曰孝元后，陵曰敦陵，庙曰靖庙；皇考为孝仁皇，夫人董氏为慎园贵人，陵曰慎陵，庙曰奂庙。
皆置令、丞，使司徒持节之河间奉策书、玺绶，祠以太守，常以岁时遣中常侍持节之河间奉祠。
熹平三年，使使拜河间安王利子康为济南王，奉孝仁皇祀。
康薨，子嗣，建安十二年，为黄巾贼所害。
子开嗣，立十三年，魏受禅，以为崇德侯。
城阳怀王淑，以永元二年分济阴为国。
translation: 
In the fifth year of Yongjian's reign, his father Liu Kai wrote a letter requesting that Liwu County be divided and given the title of Liu Yi, and Emperor Shun agreed.
Liu Yi died and his son Liu Zhi succeeded him. He was established as Emperor Huan by General Liang Ji.
The Empress Dowager Liang honored King Xiao of Hejian as Emperor Xiaomu, and his wife Zhao as Empress Xiaomu. The temple was called Qingmiao and the mausoleum was Lecheng Ling.
They all set up orders and ministers to make the Situ hold the policy books and seals and ribbons in a strict manner, and the sacrifices were too tight.
In the second year of Jianhe's reign, Liu Shuo, the emperor's younger brother, the Marquis of Duxiang, was granted the title of King of Pingyuan. He stayed in Boling and served Liu Yi's descendants.
He respected Liu Yi's wife, Ma, as a noble of Xiao Chongbo Garden, and designated the three counties of Liangxiang and Gu'an in Zhuojun and Liwu in Hejian as Tangmuyi, and the income from the town was used for bathing.
Liu Shuo, the Marquis of Duxiang, was fond of drinking and made many mistakes. The emperor sent Ma Guiren to manage the king's household affairs.
In the eleventh year of Jian'an, the feudal state was abolished.
Liu Shu, the Marquis of Jiedu Ting, was granted the title of the son of King Xiao of Hejian.
Liu Shu died and was succeeded by his son Liu Chang.
Chang died and was succeeded by his son Liu Hong, who was made Lingdi by General Dou Wu.
In the first year of Jianning, Empress Dowager Dou issued an imperial edict to honor the imperial ancestor Liu Shu as Emperor Xiaoyuan. His wife, Xia, was named Empress Xiaoyuan, the mausoleum was called Dunling, and the temple was called Jingmiao.
They all set up ministers and ministers to make Situ Chijie serve policy books and seals in the river, and use Tailao to offer sacrifices. They often sent Zhongchang to serve in the river at the beginning of the year.
In the third year of Xiping, the envoy worshiped Liu Lizi, the king of Hejian An, as Liu Kang, the king of Jinan, and served Emperor Xiaoren to offer sacrifices.
Liu Kang passed away and was succeeded by his son Liu Binbei. In the twelfth year of Jian'an, he was killed by the Yellow Turban bandits.
His son Liu Kai succeeded him, and in the 13th year of his reign, Wei accepted the abdication of the Han Dynasty and made him the Marquis of Chongde.
Liu Shu, the Huaiwang of Chengyang, was divided into Jiyin and the country in the second year of Yongyuan. He died in the fifth year of Lili and was buried in the capital.

summary:
summary line 2: Liu Kai, King Xiao of Hejian, was granted his kingdom in the second year of Yongyuan. He was known for abiding by the law and was respected by his subordinates. He died after 42 years as king. His son Liu Zheng was arrogant and cruel but was reformed by the strict Prime Minister Shen Jing. Liu Zheng's descendants included Liu Jian, Liu Li, and Liu Ye, who was made Marquis of Chongde when Wei accepted the Han abdication. Liu Yi, a son of Liu Kai, was initially favored by Empress Dowager Deng but was later framed and demoted. He eventually became the father of Emperor Huan, who honored Liu Kai as Emperor Xiaomu. Liu Shu, another son of Liu Kai, was posthumously honored as Emperor Xiaoyuan by his son, Emperor Ling.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
今相谒王，岂谒无礼者邪！
王惭而更服，景然后拜。
出住宫门外，请王傅责之曰： 前发京师，陛下见受诏，以王不恭，使相检督。
诸君空受爵禄，而无训导之义。
因奏治罪，诏书让政而诘责傅。
景因捕诸奸人上案其罪，杀戮尤恶者数十人，出冤狱百余人。
政遂为改节，悔过自修。
阳嘉元年，封政弟十三人皆为亭侯。
政立十年薨，子贞王建嗣。
建立十年薨，子安王利嗣。
利立二十八年薨，子陔嗣。陔立四十一年，魏受禅，以为崇德侯。
蠡吾侯翼，元初六年邓太后征济北、河间王诸子诣京师，奇翼美仪容，故以为平原怀王后焉。留在京师。
岁余，太后崩。
安帝乳母王圣与中常侍江京等谮邓骘兄弟及翼，云与中大夫赵王谋图不轨，窥觎神器，怀大逆心。
贬为都乡侯，遣归河间。
翼于是谢宾客，闭门自处。
translation: 
Now that the prime minister has come to pay homage to the king, is it allowed to pay homage to someone who is rude?
The king was ashamed, changed his clothes, and then bowed to Shen Jing.
Shen Jing went out of the palace and invited Liu Zheng's master to question him and said: "Go to the capital. The emperor ordered me to supervise because the king is disrespectful."
You have taken the state's salary in vain and failed to fulfill your responsibility to teach the king.
He was punished because of the memorial. The imperial court issued an edict to blame Liu Zheng and questioned and condemned his master.
As a result, Shen Jing arrested many traitors and petitioned them to be punished for their crimes. Killed dozens of people who had committed heinous crimes, and released more than a hundred people who had been wrongly imprisoned.
Liu Zhengnai corrected his behavior and repented.
In the first year of Yangjia, all thirteen of Liu Zheng's younger brothers were granted the title of Tinghou.
Liu Zhengli died ten years ago, and Zizhen King Liu Jian succeeded to the throne.
Liu Jianli died in ten years, and Liu Li, King of Zi'an, succeeded to the throne.
Liu Li died in the 28th year of his reign, and his son Liu Ye succeeded to the throne. In the 41st year of Liu Li's reign, Wei accepted the abdication of the Han Dynasty and made him the Marquis of Chongde.
In the sixth year of the Yuan Dynasty, in the sixth year of the Yuan Dynasty, Empress Dowager Deng summoned the princes of Jibei and Hejian to Liu Yi, the Marquis of Liwu. She admired Liu Yi's beauty and considered him a descendant of Liu De, Huai King of Pingyuan, and stayed in the capital.
More than a year later, the Queen Mother passed away.
Wang Sheng, the wet nurse of Emperor An, and Jiang Jing, the minister of Zhongchang, framed the brothers Deng Zhi and Liu Yi, saying that they had conspired with King Zhao, the chief minister of Zhongzhong, to seize the throne and were treasonous.
He was demoted to the title of Marquis of Duxiang and sent back to Hejian.
Liu Yi then declined the guests, refused to interact with them, and kept to himself.

summary:
summary line 3: The text also briefly mentions other sons of Emperor Zhang: Liu Quan, King of Qiancheng, who died without heirs; Liu Shu, King Huai of Chengyang, who died without children; Liu Wansui, King Ai of Guangzong, who died the same year he was enfeoffed; and Liu Sheng, King Huai of Pingyuan, who died young without heirs. The historian's commentary notes that the descendants of Emperor Zhang, known for their virtue and honesty, became the rulers of the Han dynasty, fulfilling an ancient saying.

