Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝章皇帝八子：宋贵人生清河孝王庆，梁贵人生和帝，申贵人生济北惠王寿、河间孝王开，四王不载母氏。
千乘贞王伉，建初四年封。
和帝即位，以伉长兄，甚见尊礼立十五年薨。
子宠嗣，一名伏胡。
永元七年，改国名乐安。
立二十八年薨，是为夷王。
父子薨于京师，皆葬洛阳。
子鸿嗣，安帝崩，始就国。
鸿生质帝，质帝立，梁太后下诏，以乐安国土卑湿，租委鲜薄，改封鸿勃海王。
立二十六年薨，是为孝王。
无子，太后立桓帝弟蠡吾侯悝为勃海王，奉鸿祀。
延熹八年，悝谋为不道，有司请废之。帝不忍，乃贬为陶王，食一县。
悝后因中常侍王甫求复国，许谢钱五千万。
帝临崩，遗诏复为勃海王。
悝知非甫功，不肯还谢钱。
甫怒，阴求其过。
初，迎立灵帝，道路流言悝恨不得立，欲抄征书，而中常侍郑飒、中黄门董腾并任侠通剽轻，数与悝交通。
王甫司察，以为有奸，密告司隶校尉段颎。
熹平元年，遂收飒送北寺狱。
使尚书令廉忠诬奏飒等谋迎立悝，大逆不道。
遂招冀州刺史收悝考实，又遣大鸿胪持节与宗正、廷尉之勃海，迫责悝。悝自杀。
translation: 
◆Biography of the Eight Kings of Emperor Zhang, Emperor Xiaozhang’s eight sons: Song Gui was born as Xiao Wang Liu Qing of Qinghe, Liang Gui was born as Emperor Liu Zhao, Shen Gui was born as King Hui of Jibei Liu Shou, and King Xiao of Hejian Liu Kai. The other four kings do not remember their mother's name.
Liu and his wife, the king of Qianchengzhen, were granted the title in the fourth year of Jianchu.
Emperor He ascended the throne. Because Liu and his wife were the eldest brothers, they respected him very much and treated him with courtesy. He died in the fifteenth year of his life.
His son Liu Chong succeeded to the throne. Liu Chong was named Fu Hu.
In the seventh year of Yongyuan, the country was renamed Le'an.
He died in the twenty-eighth year of his reign and became the king of Yi.
Both father and son died in the capital and were buried in Luoyang.
His son Liu Hong succeeded to the throne. Emperor An Liu Hu passed away before he left for his country.
Liu Hong gave birth to Emperor Liu Zan. After Emperor Zhi was established, the Empress Dowager of Liang issued an edict, believing that the land of Le'an was despicable and humid, and there were too few rents and taxes, so she changed the title of Liu Hongbo to King of Hai.
He died in the twenty-sixth year of his reign and was named King Xiao.
Prince Xiao had no children, so the Empress Dowager made Emperor Huan Liu Zhi's younger brother Liwuhou Liu Kui the King of Bohai to serve Liu Hong's sacrifices.
In the eighth year of Yanxi's reign, Liu Kui conspired and the relevant officials requested that Liu Kui be deposed. Emperor Zhi could not bear to depose him, so he demoted him to the title of King Ying Tao and had to pay the tax of a county.
Later, Liu Kui wanted to rely on Wang Fu, the official official of Zhongchang, to restore his feudal state, and promised to give him 50 million yuan as a gift to thank him.
Emperor Zhi was about to die and issued an edict to restore Liu Kui to the throne of Bohai.
Liu Kui knew that it was not Wang Fu's credit, so he refused to thank Wang Fu for the money.
Wang Fu became angry and secretly collected Liu Kui's crimes.
At first, when the Ling Emperor Liu Hong was proclaimed, there were rumors on the road that Liu Kui did not establish himself as emperor, but held a grudge and wanted to seize the conscription documents by force. Both Zhong Chang Shi Zheng Sa and Zhong Huangmen Dong Teng had the courage to associate righteousness with the strong and light men, and colluded with Liu Kui many times.
Wang Fu conducted reconnaissance and thought there must be a conspiracy, so he secretly reported it to Duan Zhen, the captain of Sili School.
In the first year of Xiping, Zheng Sa was arrested and sent to Beisi Prison.
The minister ordered Lian Zhong to submit a report to slander Zheng Sa and other plots to welcome Liu Kui, which was a treasonous act.
So he ordered the governor of Jizhou to arrest Liu Kui and question him about the implementation. He also sent Dahong Zhijie, Zongzheng and Tingwei to Bohai to force Liu Kui to denounce him, and Liu Kui committed suicide.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
妃妾十一人，子女七十人，伎女二十四人，皆死狱中。
傅、相以下，以辅导王不忠，悉伏诛。
悝立二十五年国除。
众庶莫不怜之。
平春悼王全，以建初四年封。其年薨，葬于京师。
无子，国除。
清河孝王庆，母宋贵人。
贵人，宋昌八世孙，扶风平陵人也。
父杨，以恭孝称于乡闾，不应州郡之命。
杨姑即明德马后之外祖母也。
马后闻杨二女皆有才色，迎而训之。
永平末，选入太子宫，甚有宠。
肃宗即位，并为贵人。
建初三年，大贵人生庆，明年立为皇太子，征杨为议郎，褒赐甚渥。
贵人长于人事，供奉长乐宫，身执馈馔，太后怜之。
太后崩后，窦皇后宠盛，以贵人姊妹并幸，庆为太子，心内恶之，与母比阳主谋陷宋氏。
外令兄弟求其纤过，内使御者侦伺得失。
translation: 
Eleven concubines, seventy children, and twenty-four prostitutes all died in prison.
Fu, Prime Minister and below were all executed for the crime of disloyalty by leading King Bohai Liu Kui.
In the twenty-fifth year of Liu Kui's reign, the feudal state was removed.
The people all sympathized with him.
In Pingchun, King Liu Quan was mourned, and he was granted the title in the fourth year of Jianchu. He died that year and was buried in the capital.
Having no children, the feudal state was removed.
Liu Qing, the Xiaowang of Qinghe, whose mother was a noblewoman of the Song Dynasty.
Guiren, the eighth grandson of Song Chang, was born in Pingling County, Fufeng County.
His father, Song Yang, was praised by the village for his respectfulness and filial piety, and he should not be drafted by the state or county.
Song Yang's aunt is the maternal grandmother of Empress Ma of Mingde.
After Ma heard that Song Yang's two daughters were both talented and beautiful, she took them to teach them a lesson.
At the end of Yongping, both daughters were selected into the prince's palace, and the prince liked them very much.
When Suzong came to the throne, they were all nobles.
In the third year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the great nobleman Liu Qing was born. In the second year, he was established as the crown prince, and Song Yang was recruited as Yilang. He was highly praised and rewarded.
The empress dowager liked her because she was a good person, dedicated to Changle Palace, and did the cooking work herself.
After the death of the Empress Dowager, Empress Dou was favored by Su Zong. Because both noble sisters were favored by the emperor, and Liu Qing was the prince, he was jealous of them and conspired with her mother Biyang Zhu to frame the Song family.
Outside, let her brothers collect her faults, even small ones; inside, let her attendants spy on her gains and losses.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
后于掖庭门邀遮得贵人书，云 病思生菟，令家求之 ，因诬言欲作蛊道祝诅，以菟为厌胜之术，日夜毁谮，贵人母子遂渐见疏。
庆出居承禄观，数月，窦后讽掖庭令诬奏前事，请加验实。
七年，帝遂废太子庆而立皇太子，梁贵人子也。
乃下诏曰： 皇太子有失惑无常之性，爰自孩乳，至今益章，恐袭其母凶恶之风，不可以奉宗庙，为天下主。
大义灭亲，况降退乎！
今废庆为清河王。
皇子保育皇后，承训怀衽，导达善性，将成其器。
盖庶子慈母，尚有终身之恩，岂若嫡后事正义明哉！
今以为皇太子。
遂出贵人姊妹置丙舍，使小黄门蔡伦考实之，皆承讽旨傅致其事，乃载送暴室。
二贵人同时饮药自杀。
帝犹伤之，敕掖庭令葬于樊濯聚。
于是免杨归本郡。
郡县因事复捕系之，杨友人前怀令山阳张峻、左冯翊沛国刘均等奔走解释，得以免罪。
杨失志憔悴，卒于家。
translation: 
Later, I intercepted a letter from the nobleman at Yeting Gate, saying: I want some raw dodder when I am sick, and I want my family to look for it. Therefore, he slandered her and said that she wanted to do magic tricks to pray for ghosts and gods to bring disaster on Queen Dou. She used dodder as a means of victory. She was slandered and framed day and night. The noble mother and son gradually became alienated from the emperor.
Liu Qing came to live in Chenglu Temple. A few months later, Queen Dou hinted that Ye Ting had ordered a noble man to survive and framed the noble man. Please test it and implement it.
In the seventh year, the emperor deposed the crown prince Liu Qing and established the crown prince Liu Zhao. Liu Zhao is the son of Liang Guiren.
So he issued an edict saying: The Crown Prince has a confusing and unpredictable nature, which started when he was a child and has become more obvious now. I'm afraid he inherited his mother's vicious style and cannot worship in the ancestral temple or be the master of the world.
Killing relatives for the sake of justice, let alone surrendering?
Now Prince Liu Qing is deposed as King Qinghe.
Crown Prince Liu Zhao was raised by the Queen and was educated by his mother when he was a child, which induced him to have a good character and he was expected to become a great person.
Most concubines have a loving mother as their mother and have a lifetime of kindness. How can it be compared with the righteousness of a direct descendant?
Now Zhao is the crown prince.
So the noble sister Ju Bing was sent to Cai Lun of Xiaohuangmen to conduct the examination and implementation. They all adhered to the above-mentioned will and attached it to the facts, so they were sent to the violent room.
The two noble men committed suicide by drinking medicine at the same time.
The emperor still mourned them and ordered Ye Ting to bury them in Fan Zhuoquan.
Song Yang was relieved of his official position and returned to the county.
The county arrested him again for the crime. Song Yang's friends Qianhuai County Magistrate Zhang Jun, Zuofeng Yipeiguo Liu Jun and others rushed to explain and were exempted from the crime.
Song Yang lost his ambition, became haggard and melancholy, and died at home.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
庆时虽幼，而知避嫌畏祸，言不敢及宋氏，帝更怜之，敕皇后令衣服与太子齐等。
太子特亲爱庆，入则共室，出则同舆。
及太子即位，是为和帝，待庆尤渥，诸王莫得为比，常共议私事。
后庆以长，别居丙舍。
永元四年，帝移幸北宫章德殿，讲于白虎观，庆得入省宿止。
帝将诛窦氏，欲得《外戚传》，惧左右不敢使，乃令庆私从千乘王求，夜独内之；又令庆传语中常侍郑众求索故事。
及大将军窦宪诛，庆出居邸，赐奴婢三百人。舆马、钱帛、帷帐、珍宝、玩好充仞其第，又赐中傅以下至左右钱帛各有差。
庆多被病，或时不安，帝朝夕问讯，进膳药，所以垂意甚备。
庆小心恭孝，自以废黜，尤畏事慎法。
每朝谒陵庙，常夜分严装，衣冠待明；约敕官属，不得与诸王车骑竞驱。
常以贵人葬礼有阙，每窃感恨，至四节伏腊，辄祭于私室。
窦氏诛后，始使乳母于城北遥祠。
及窦太后崩，庆求上冢致哀，帝许之，诏太官四时给祭具。
庆垂涕曰： 生虽不获供养，终得奉祭祀，私愿足矣。
欲求作祠堂，恐有自同恭怀梁后之嫌，遂不敢言。
常泣向左右，以为没齿之恨。
后上言外祖母王年老，遭忧病，下土药，愿乞诣洛阳疗疾。
于是诏宋氏悉归京师，除庆舅衍、俊、盖、暹等皆为郎。
translation: 
Although Liu Qing was still young at the time, he knew how to avoid suspicion and was afraid of causing trouble. He did not dare to mention the Song family when he spoke. The emperor took pity on him and ordered the queen to give Liu Qing the same clothes as the prince.
The prince was particularly dear to Liu Qing. He lived in the same room in the palace and drove in the same car when leaving the palace.
When the prince came to the throne, he treated Liu Qing more favorably than the other kings. They often discussed private matters together.
Later Liu Qing grew up and moved to Bing.
In the fourth year of Yongyuan, the emperor moved to the Zhangde Hall of the North Palace and taught at Baihu Temple, so that Liu Qing could stay in the palace.
The emperor executed the Dou family in order to obtain the "Biography of Foreign Relatives". He was afraid that the attendants on the left and right would not dare to look for it, so he ordered Liu Qing to ask King Qiancheng for it privately, and took it to the emperor alone in the evening. He also ordered Liu Qing to send a message to Zheng Zhong, the official of Zhongchang, to search for the historical archives of Emperor Wen's execution of Bo Zhao and Emperor Wu's execution of Dou Ying.
When the general Dou Xian was executed, Liu Qing came out to live in the mansion and gave 300 slaves, horses, money and silk, curtains, treasures and toys. The palace was filled with money and silk, ranging from the middle master to the left and right.
Liu Qing was sick and sometimes uneasy. The Emperor asked him morning and evening, sent meals and medicine, and showed his utmost concern.
Liu Qing was careful, respectful and filial. He thought he was a deposed person, so he was even more cautious, fearing that he would violate the law.
Every time he went to visit the mausoleum temple, he often got up in the middle of the night, dressed up, and waited for dawn; he restrained his subordinates from riding abreast with the kings' horses and horses.
It is often said that the funerals of nobles are incomplete, and they are often lamented and regretted. During the four solar terms, the solstice and the twelfth day, sacrifices are made in private rooms at home.
After Dou's death, the wet nurse was made to offer sacrifices far north of the city.
When Empress Dowager Dou died, Liu Qing requested to go to the tomb to pay his respects, and the emperor agreed. The imperial edict was ordered to give sacrificial utensils at four o'clock.
Liu Qing shed tears and said: "Although I will not receive support in life, I can offer sacrifices in death. My wish is fulfilled."
If he wanted to ask for an ancestral hall, he might be suspected of being the same as Empress Gonghuai of Liang Dynasty, so he didn't dare to say anything.
He often cries to the people around him, thinking it is a lifelong hatred.
Later, he wrote a letter saying that his grandmother Wang was old and suffered from a serious illness. There was no medicine in remote places, so she requested to come to Luoyang for treatment.
So the Song family was ordered to return to the capital, and Liu Qing's uncles Song Yan, Song Jun, Song Gai, Song Xian and others were conferred the title of Lang.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
十五年，有司以日食阴盛，奏遣诸王侯就国。
诏曰： 甲子之异，责由一人。
诸王幼稚，早离顾复，弱冠相育，常有《蓼莪》、《凯风》之哀。
选懦之恩，知非国典，且复须留。
至冬，从祠章陵，诏假诸王羽林骑各四十人。
后中傅卫私为臧盗千余万，诏使案理之，并责庆不举之状。庆曰： 以师傅之尊，选自圣朝，臣愚唯知言从事听，不甚有所纠察。
帝嘉其对，悉以臧财赐庆。
及帝崩，庆号泣前殿，呕血数升，因以发病。
明年，诸王就国，邓太后特听清河王置中尉、内史，赐什物皆取乘舆上御，以宋衍等并为清河中大夫。
庆到国，下令： 寡人生于深宫，长于朝廷，仰恃明主，垂拱受成。
既以薄祐，早离顾复，属遭大忧，悲怀感伤。
蒙恩大国，职惟籓辅，新去京师，忧心茕茕，夙夜屏营，未知所立。
盖闻智不独理，必须明贤。
今官属并居爵任，失得是均，庶望上遵策戒，下免悔咎。
其纠督非枉，明察典禁，无令孤获怠慢之罪焉。
translation: 
In the fifteenth year, the officials thought that the solar eclipse was too yin-yin, so they sent a petition to send all the princes to the country.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The responsibility for the difference between Jiazi is mine alone.
The kings were young and left their parents very early. They helped each other until they were weak. They often missed their parents with "Polygonium" and "Kaifeng".
Enga was cowardly and knew that it was not a national system, so he stayed in the capital for the time being.
In winter, the kings worshiped Zhang Ling from the emperor. The imperial edict was given to each of the kings and the Yulin Cavalry, forty men each.
Later, Wei Yunjin, the central master, embezzled more than ten million yuan in private. He ordered an interrogation and trial, and blamed Liu Qing for not reporting the case. Liu Qing said: Wei Yunjin is a master and was selected by the imperial court. I only know to listen to him and follow his instructions. There can be no pickets.
The emperor praised Liu Qing's answer and gave Liu Qing all the property that Wei Yanjin had embezzled.
When the emperor passed away, Liu Qing cried in front of the palace, vomited several liters of blood, and fell ill.
The next year, when the kings came to the country, Empress Dowager Deng authorized King Qinghe to appoint lieutenants and internal historians, and gave him everything for the emperor's use. Song Yan and others were all officials in Qinghe.
When Liu Qing arrived at the country, he issued an order: "I was born in a deep palace and grew up in the imperial court. I rely on the Ming Lord and do nothing to achieve success."
Because of my poor fortune, I left my parents very early. Recently, the emperor passed away. I was deeply saddened by this great worry.
I have been gifted a great country, and my duty is to serve as an assistant to the imperial court. I will soon leave the capital, and I am alone and worried. I was terrified day and night, not knowing how to deal with myself.
I heard that even a wise man cannot govern alone. He must be assisted by wise people.
Now that the officials and subordinates are in their respective positions, they have to consider the pros and cons, and the common people can follow the emperor's instructions without guilt.
It is important to inspect and supervise mistakes and evil, to clearly understand what is prohibited by laws and regulations, and not to cause me to commit the crime of neglect.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
邓太后以殇帝襁抱，远虑不虞，留庆长子祐与嫡母耿姬居清河邸。
至秋，帝崩，立祐为嗣，是为安帝。
太后使中黄门送耿姬归国。
帝所生母左姬，字小娥，小娥姊字大娥，犍为人也。
初，伯父圣坐妖言伏诛，家属没官，二娥数岁入掖庭，及长，并有才色。
小娥善《史书》，喜辞赋。
和帝赐诸王宫人，因入清河第。
庆初闻其美，赏傅母以求之。
及后幸爱极盛，姬妾莫比。
姊妹皆卒，葬于京师。
庆立凡二十五年，乃归国。
其年病笃，谓宋衍等曰： 清河埤薄，欲乞骸骨于贵人冢傍下棺而已。
朝廷大恩，犹当应有祠室，庶母子并食，魂灵有所依庇，死复何恨？
乃上书太后曰： 臣国土下湿，愿乞骸骨，下从贵人于樊濯，虽殁且不朽矣。
及今口目尚能言视，冒昧干请。
命在呼吸，愿蒙哀怜。
遂薨，年二十九。
translation: 
Empress Dowager Deng, because the Emperor Liu Long was young, was afraid of an accident, so she left Liu Qing's eldest son Liu and his aunt Geng Ji in Qinghe Mansion.
In the autumn, Emperor Shang died and Liu succeeded him as Emperor An.
The Queen Mother sent Zhonghuangmen to send Geng Ji back to her feudal country.
The emperor's biological mother, Zuo Ji, was named Xiao'e, and Xiao'e's sister was named Daye. They were born in Qianwei.
At first, uncle Zuo Sheng was convicted and executed for speaking evil, and his family was not considered an official. Er'e entered Yeting when she was only a few years old. When she grew up, she became a talented person.
Xiao'e is familiar with history books and likes poetry.
Emperor He granted the royal palace to all the people, so they were able to enter the Qinghe mansion.
Liu Qing began to hear that Er'e was beautiful, so he rewarded his nanny to get Er'e for him.
Later, I was very happy, and other concubines could not compare with me.
After the two sisters died, they were buried in the capital.
Liu Qing was king for twenty-five years before he went to seal the country.
In the same year, he fell seriously ill and said to Song Yan and others: "The Qinghe River is low and wet and the soil is thin. I would like to request that I be buried next to the nobles' tomb after my death."
The court has shown great favor, and a shrine should be built so that the concubine, mother and son can eat together, so that the soul can be sheltered, and there will be no regrets after death.
So he wrote to the Queen Mother and said: My land is low and humid, and I want to ask the nobles to follow Fan Zhuo after I die. Even if I die, I will not be immortal!
Now while your mouth can still speak and your eyes can still see, be brave enough to ask.
Every breath of life, I hope to be pitied.
He died at the age of twenty-nine.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
遣司空持节与宗正奉吊祭；又使长乐谒者仆射、中谒者二人副护丧事；赐龙旂九旒，虎贲百人，仪比东海恭王。
太后使掖庭丞送左姬丧，与王合葬广丘。
子愍王虎威嗣。
永初元年，太后封宋衍为盛乡侯，分清河为二国，封庆少子常保为广川王，子女十一人皆为乡公主，食邑奉。
明年，常保薨，无子，国除。
虎威立三年薨，亦无子。
邓太后复立乐安王宠子延平为清河王，是为恭王。
太后崩，有司上言： 清河孝王至德淳懿，载育明圣，承天奉祚，为郊庙主。
汉兴，高皇帝尊父为太上皇，宣帝号父为皇考，序昭穆，置园邑。大宗之义，旧章不忘。
宜上尊号曰孝德皇，皇妣左氏曰孝德后，孝德皇母宋贵人追谥曰敬隐后。
乃告祠高庙，使司徒持节与大鸿胪奉策书玺绶之清河，追上遵号；又遣中常侍奉太牢祠典，护礼仪侍中刘珍等及宗室列侯皆往会事。
尊陵曰甘陵，庙曰昭庙，置令、丞，设兵车周卫，比章陵。
复以广川益清河国。
translation: 
The imperial court sent Sikong Chijie and Zongzheng to attend the condolence ceremony, and also sent Changle Yezhe Pushe and Zhongyezhe to help take care of the funeral. They also gave dragons Jiuqi and tigers to support hundreds of people, and the etiquette was the same as that of King Lehaigong.
The Queen Mother sent Ye Tingcheng to send Zuo Ji to mourn, and she was buried with the king in Guangqiu.
Zimin King Huwei succeeded to the throne.
In the first year of Yongchu, the Empress Dowager granted Song Yan the title of Marquis of Shengxiang, divided Qinghe into two kingdoms, and granted Liu Qing's youngest son Chang Bao the title of King of Guangchuan. All eleven of his children were township princesses and received a salary from the town.
In the second year, Chang Bao died without any children, and the feudal state was abolished.
Huweili died three years later and had no children.
Empress Dowager Deng then appointed Yanping, the son of Liu Chong, King of Le'an, as King of Qinghe, which was Prince Gong.
When the Queen Mother passed away, officials wrote: King Xiao of Qinghe was a man of pure virtue and beauty. He gave birth to a saint and was destined to inherit the throne and be the master of the country.
When the Han Dynasty was established, Emperor Gaozu honored his father as the Supreme Emperor, and Emperor Xuan named his father as Emperor Kao. He left Zhao Zhao and right Mu, arranged them in an orderly manner, and also set up gardens and guarded mausoleums. The meaning of large-scale succession must not be forgotten. The past regulations cannot be forgotten.
She should be given the honorific title of Emperor Xiaode, the concubine of the emperor Zuo will be called Empress Xiaode, and the posthumous title of Emperor Xiaode's mother, Song Guiren, will be Empress Jingyin.
So he offered sacrifices to the Gaomiao, and sent Situ Chijie and Dahonglu to Qinghe with the seal and ribbon of the policy book to catch up with the title. He also sent the regular attendant to hold the Tailao sacrifice ceremony, and the ceremonial attendant Liu Zhen and others as well as the princes of the clan attended.
The mausoleum of Zun is called Ganling, the temple is called Zhaomiao, and the ministers and ministers are appointed, and military chariots are set up to protect them, just like Zhangling.
Guangchuan was also merged into Qinghe State.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
尊耿姬为甘陵大贵人。
又封女弟侍男为涅阳长公主，别得为舞阴长公主，久长为濮阳长公主，直得为平氏长公主。
余七主并早卒，故不及进爵，追赠敬隐后女弟小贵人印绶，追封谥宋杨为当阳穆侯。
杨四子皆为列侯，食邑各五千户。
宋氏为卿、校、侍中、大夫、谒者、郎吏十余人。
孝德后异母弟次及达生二人，诸子九人，皆为清河国郎中。
耿贵人者，牟平侯舒之孙也。贵人兄宝，袭封牟平侯。
帝以宝嫡舅，宠遇甚渥，位至大将军，事已见《耿舒传》。
延平立三十五年薨，子蒜嗣。
冲帝崩，征蒜诣京师，将议为嗣。会大将军梁冀与梁太后立质帝，罢归国。
蒜为人严重，动止有度，朝臣太尉李固等莫不归心焉。
初，中常侍曹腾谒蒜，蒜不为礼，宦者由此恶之。
及帝崩，公卿皆正议立蒜，而曹腾说梁冀不听，遂立桓帝。
语在《李固传》。
蒜由此得罪。
translation: 
Respect Geng Ji as a noble person in Ganling.
He also named the female younger brother the eldest princess of Niyang, Bie De as the eldest princess of Wuyang, Jiu Chang as the eldest princess of Puyang, and Zhi De as the eldest princess of Ping clan.
The other seven princesses all died early, so they were not promoted to nobility. He posthumously presented the seal ribbon to Xiaoguiren, the younger brother of Jingyin, and posthumously named Song Yang Muhou of Dangyang.
Song Yang's four sons were all marquises, each with a settlement of 5,000 households.
The Song family has more than ten officials including officials, principals, ministers, officials, visitors, and lieutenants.
After Xiaode, his half-brothers Song Ci and Song Dasheng, as well as nine other disciples, were all doctors of Qinghe country.
Geng Guiren is the grandson of Geng Shu, the Marquis of Mouping. Geng Bao, your elder brother, was granted the title of Marquis of Mouping.
Because Geng Bao was his uncle, the emperor favored him very much and treated him generously, and he was promoted to the rank of general. The story has been recorded in the "Biography of Geng Shu".
Yanping died in the 35th year of his reign, and his son Liu Lian succeeded to the throne.
When Emperor Chong Liu Bing passed away, he summoned Liu Lian to the capital to discuss succession to the throne. General Liang Ji and the Empress Dowager Liang established Emperor Chong Liu Zan, and Liu Lian returned home.
Liu Lian was a rigorous man and had rules in his movements. All the court officials, Taiwei Li Gu and others supported him.
At first, Cao Teng, the minister of the imperial court, went to pay homage to Liu Lian, but Liu Lian did not treat him politely, and the eunuchs hated him for this.
When the emperor died, the ministers all discussed making Liu Lian emperor, but Cao Teng said that Liang Ji was not allowed to do so, so he made Huan Emperor.
The words are in "The Biography of Li Gu".
Liu Lian was convicted.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
建和元年，甘陵人刘文与南郡妖贼刘鲔交通，讹言清河王当统天下，欲共立蒜。
事发觉，文等遂劫清河相谢暠，将至王宫司马门，曰： 当立王为天子，暠为公。
暠不听，骂之，文因刺杀暠。
于是捕文、鲔诛之。
有司因劾奏蒜，坐贬爵为尉氏侯，徙桂阳，自杀。
立三年，国绝。
梁冀恶清河名，明年，乃改为甘陵。
梁太后立安平孝王子经侯理为甘陵王，奉孝德皇祀，是为威王。
理立二十五年薨，子贞王定嗣。
定立四年薨，子献王忠嗣。
黄巾贼起，忠为国人所执，既而释之。
灵帝以亲亲故，诏复忠国。
忠立十三年薨，嗣子为黄巾所害，建安十一年，以无后，国除。
济北惠王寿，母申贵人，颍川人也，世吏二千石。
贵人年十三，入掖庭。
寿以永元二年封，分太山郡为国。
translation: 
In the first year of Jianhe, Liu Wen, a native of Ganling, colluded with Liu Quan, a demon thief from Nanjun, and spread rumors that King Qinghe should succeed to rule the world and wanted to make Liu Lian the emperor.
When the matter was discovered, Liu Wen and others kidnapped Qinghe Prime Minister Xie Fan and took him to Simamen of the palace. They said: The king should be made the emperor and Xie Fan the duke.
Xie Fan refused to listen to them and scolded them, so Liu Wen assassinated Xie Fan.
So Liu Wen and Liu Tuna were arrested and killed.
Officials impeached Liu Lian due to his impeachment, and he was demoted to the rank of Marquis of Wei clan. He moved to Guiyang and committed suicide.
After three years of establishment, the feudal state was abolished.
Liang Ji hated the name Qinghe and changed it to Ganling the next year.
The Empress Dowager Liang appointed Prince Jinghou Li of Anping Xiao as the King of Ganling, and served Emperor Xiaode to offer sacrifices, making him the King of Wei.
Liu Lili passed away in the twenty-fifth year, and Liu Ding, King Zizhen, succeeded to the throne.
Liu Dingli died in four years, and Prince Xian Liu Zhong succeeded to the throne.
The Yellow Turban bandits arose, and Liu Zhong was captured by the countrymen and released soon after.
Emperor Ling believed that one should kiss one's relatives, and it was most important to kiss one's relatives, so he ordered the restoration of Liu Zhong's feudal state.
Liu Zhongli died in the 13th year of his reign, and his son was killed by the Yellow Turban Army. In the 11th year of Jian'an, the feudal state was abolished because he had no heirs.
Liu Shou, King Hui of Jibei, and his mother Shen Guiren, were from Yingchuan. He has been an official for two thousand years.
When the noble was thirteen, he entered Yeting.
Liu Shou was named king in the second year of Yongyuan. Divide Taishan County into a country.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
和帝遵肃宗故事，兄弟皆留京师，恩宠笃密。
有司请遣诸王归籓，不忍许之，及帝崩，乃就国。
永初元年，邓太后封寿舅申转为新亭侯。
寿立三十一年薨，自永初己后，戎狄叛乱，国用不足，始封王薨，减赙钱为千万，布万区；嗣王薨五百万，布五千匹。
时，唯寿最尊亲，特赙钱三千万，布三万匹。
子节王登嗣。
永宁元年，封登弟五人为乡侯，皆别食太山邑。
登立十五年薨，子哀王多嗣。
多立三年薨，无子。
永和四年，立战乡侯安国为济北王，是为王。
安国立七年薨，子孝王次嗣。
本初元年，封次弟猛为亭侯。
次九岁丧父，至孝。
建和元年，梁太后下诏曰： 济北王次以幼年守籓，躬履孝道，父没哀恸，焦毁过礼，草庐土席，衰杖在身，头不批沐，体生疮肿。
谅暗已来二十八月，自诸国有忧，未之闻也，朝廷甚嘉焉。
translation: 
Emperor He abided by Suzong's old custom, and his brothers all stayed in the capital, and their love was extremely close.
The officials asked the kings to return to the feudal kingdom, but the emperor could not bear them leaving. He waited until the emperor died before returning to the feudal kingdom.
In the first year of Yongchu, Empress Dowager Deng granted Liu Shou's uncle Shen Zhuan the title of Marquis of Xinting.
Liu Shouli passed away in the 31st year of his reign. Since Yongchu, Rong and Di rebelled, and the country's finances were insufficient. When the newly crowned king passed away, the funeral expenses were reduced to tens of millions and ten thousand pieces of cloth. When the king who succeeded the throne died, the money was five million and five thousand pieces of cloth.
At this time, only Liu Shou respected his relatives the most, and specially sent him 30 million yuan for funeral expenses and 30,000 pieces of cloth.
Zijie King Liu ascended to the throne.
In the first year of Yongning, Liu Deng's five younger brothers were granted the title of Marquis of the Countryside, and all of them were taxed in Taishan.
Liu Dengli passed away in the fifteenth year, and Prince Ai Wang Liu Duo succeeded to the throne.
Liu Duoli died three years ago without any sons.
In the fourth year of Yonghe's reign, Liu Anguo, the marquis of Zhanxiang, was appointed King of Jibei, and was named King of Li.
Liu An passed away seven years after the founding of the People's Republic of China, and his son Xiao Wang Liu Ci succeeded to the throne.
In the first year of Benchu, Liu Meng, Liu Ci's younger brother, was granted the title of Tinghou.
Liu Ci lost his father when he was nine years old, and he has the most filial nature.
In the first year of Jianhe, the Empress Dowager of Liang issued an edict saying: King Liu Ci of Jibei spent his childhood guarding the vassal state and practicing filial piety. When his father died, he mourned excessively. He lived in a thatched hut, sitting and lying on earthen mats, never leaving his mourning stick, and his hair was not combed or washed, which resulted in sores and swelling on his body.
Since the beginning of mourning, in the 28th month of the twelfth month, since every feudal country has mourned, I have never heard of anyone like him.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
《书》不云乎： 用德章厥善。
《诗》云： 孝子不匮，永锡尔类。
今增次封五千户，广其土字，以尉孝子恻隐之劳。
次立十七年薨，子鸾嗣。
鸾薨，子政嗣。
政薨，无子，建安十一年，国除。
河间孝王开，以永元二年封，分乐成、勃海、涿郡为国。
延平元年就国。
开奉遵法度，吏人敬之。
永宁元年，邓太后封开子翼为平原王，奉怀王胜祀；子德为安平王，奉乐成王党祀。
开立四十二年薨，子惠王政嗣。
政傲，不奉法宪，顺帝以侍御史吴郡沈景有强能称，故擢为河间相。
景到国谒王，王不正服，箕踞殿上。
侍郎赞拜，景峙不为礼。
问王所在，虎贲曰： 是非王邪？ 景曰： 王不服，常人何别！
translation: 
The court considered this to be extremely valuable. Isn't it said in the Book of Books: Make it clear with morality, so that everyone will compete to do good.
"The Book of Songs" says: The filial piety of a filial son will never be exhausted. It will be bestowed upon your kind and teach the world.
Now, 5,000 more households have been granted to Liu Ci to make his place more spacious, so as to comfort the grief of the filial son.
Liu Cili died in the seventh year, and his son Liu Luan succeeded to the throne.
When Liu Luan died, his son Liu Zheng succeeded to the throne and had no sons.
In the eleventh year of Jian'an, the feudal state was abolished.
Liu Kai, the filial king of Hejian, was granted the title in the second year of Yongyuan, and was divided into Lecheng, Bohai and Zhuojun.
He arrived in the country in the first year of Yanping.
Liu Kai abides by the law, and his subordinates all respect and love him.
In the first year of Yongning, Empress Dowager Deng named Liu Kai's son Liu Yi as the King of Pingyuan to serve the sacrifices of King Huai Liu Sheng, and her son Liu De as the King of Anping to serve the sacrifices of King Liu Dang of Success.
Liu Kaili died in the 42nd year of his reign, and King Zihui Liu Zheng succeeded to the throne.
Liu Zheng was arrogant and cruel, and did not abide by the laws of the country. Emperor Shun promoted Shen Jing of Wu County to the rank of Prime Minister of Hejian because he was a shrewd and capable person serving as his censor.
Shen Jing went to the country to pay homage to King Liu Zheng. Liu Zheng was disheveled and sat in the palace with his feet stretched out.
The minister read out the etiquette, but Shen Jing stood still and asked the master of ceremonies, where is the king?
Huben said: Isn't this the king? Shen Jing said: If a king does not wear royal clothes, what is the difference between him and ordinary people?


Chunk 11: 
original: 
今相谒王，岂谒无礼者邪！
王惭而更服，景然后拜。
出住宫门外，请王傅责之曰： 前发京师，陛下见受诏，以王不恭，使相检督。
诸君空受爵禄，而无训导之义。
因奏治罪，诏书让政而诘责傅。
景因捕诸奸人上案其罪，杀戮尤恶者数十人，出冤狱百余人。
政遂为改节，悔过自修。
阳嘉元年，封政弟十三人皆为亭侯。
政立十年薨，子贞王建嗣。
建立十年薨，子安王利嗣。
利立二十八年薨，子陔嗣。陔立四十一年，魏受禅，以为崇德侯。
蠡吾侯翼，元初六年邓太后征济北、河间王诸子诣京师，奇翼美仪容，故以为平原怀王后焉。留在京师。
岁余，太后崩。
安帝乳母王圣与中常侍江京等谮邓骘兄弟及翼，云与中大夫赵王谋图不轨，窥觎神器，怀大逆心。
贬为都乡侯，遣归河间。
翼于是谢宾客，闭门自处。
translation: 
Now that the prime minister has come to pay homage to the king, is it allowed to pay homage to someone who is rude?
The king was ashamed, changed his clothes, and then bowed to Shen Jing.
Shen Jing went out of the palace and invited Liu Zheng's master to question him and said: "Go to the capital. The emperor ordered me to supervise because the king is disrespectful."
You have taken the state's salary in vain and failed to fulfill your responsibility to teach the king.
He was punished because of the memorial. The imperial court issued an edict to blame Liu Zheng and questioned and condemned his master.
As a result, Shen Jing arrested many traitors and petitioned them to be punished for their crimes. Killed dozens of people who had committed heinous crimes, and released more than a hundred people who had been wrongly imprisoned.
Liu Zhengnai corrected his behavior and repented.
In the first year of Yangjia, all thirteen of Liu Zheng's younger brothers were granted the title of Tinghou.
Liu Zhengli died ten years ago, and Zizhen King Liu Jian succeeded to the throne.
Liu Jianli died in ten years, and Liu Li, King of Zi'an, succeeded to the throne.
Liu Li died in the 28th year of his reign, and his son Liu Ye succeeded to the throne. In the 41st year of Liu Li's reign, Wei accepted the abdication of the Han Dynasty and made him the Marquis of Chongde.
In the sixth year of the Yuan Dynasty, in the sixth year of the Yuan Dynasty, Empress Dowager Deng summoned the princes of Jibei and Hejian to Liu Yi, the Marquis of Liwu. She admired Liu Yi's beauty and considered him a descendant of Liu De, Huai King of Pingyuan, and stayed in the capital.
More than a year later, the Queen Mother passed away.
Wang Sheng, the wet nurse of Emperor An, and Jiang Jing, the minister of Zhongchang, framed the brothers Deng Zhi and Liu Yi, saying that they had conspired with King Zhao, the chief minister of Zhongzhong, to seize the throne and were treasonous.
He was demoted to the title of Marquis of Duxiang and sent back to Hejian.
Liu Yi then declined the guests, refused to interact with them, and kept to himself.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
永建五年，父开上书，愿分蠡吾县以封翼，顺帝从之。
翼卒，子志嗣，为大将军梁冀所立，是为桓帝。
梁太后诏追尊河间孝王为孝穆皇，夫人赵氏曰孝穆后，庙曰清庙，陵曰乐成陵；蠡吾先侯曰孝崇皇，庙曰列庙，陵曰博陵。
皆置令、丞，使司徒持节奉策书、玺绶，祠以太牢。
建和二年，更封帝弟都乡侯硕为平原王，留博陵，奉翼后。
尊翼夫人马氏为孝崇博园贵人，以涿郡之良乡、故安，河间之蠡吾三县为汤沐邑。
硕嗜酒，多过失，帝令马贵人领王家事。
建安十一年，国除。
解渎亭侯淑，以河间孝王子封。
淑卒，子嗣。
卒，子宏嗣，为大将军窦武所立，是为灵帝。
建宁元年，窦太后诏追遵皇祖淑为孝元皇，夫人夏氏曰孝元后，陵曰敦陵，庙曰靖庙；皇考为孝仁皇，夫人董氏为慎园贵人，陵曰慎陵，庙曰奂庙。
皆置令、丞，使司徒持节之河间奉策书、玺绶，祠以太守，常以岁时遣中常侍持节之河间奉祠。
熹平三年，使使拜河间安王利子康为济南王，奉孝仁皇祀。
康薨，子嗣，建安十二年，为黄巾贼所害。
子开嗣，立十三年，魏受禅，以为崇德侯。
城阳怀王淑，以永元二年分济阴为国。
translation: 
In the fifth year of Yongjian's reign, his father Liu Kai wrote a letter requesting that Liwu County be divided and given the title of Liu Yi, and Emperor Shun agreed.
Liu Yi died and his son Liu Zhi succeeded him. He was established as Emperor Huan by General Liang Ji.
The Empress Dowager Liang honored King Xiao of Hejian as Emperor Xiaomu, and his wife Zhao as Empress Xiaomu. The temple was called Qingmiao and the mausoleum was Lecheng Ling.
They all set up orders and ministers to make the Situ hold the policy books and seals and ribbons in a strict manner, and the sacrifices were too tight.
In the second year of Jianhe's reign, Liu Shuo, the emperor's younger brother, the Marquis of Duxiang, was granted the title of King of Pingyuan. He stayed in Boling and served Liu Yi's descendants.
He respected Liu Yi's wife, Ma, as a noble of Xiao Chongbo Garden, and designated the three counties of Liangxiang and Gu'an in Zhuojun and Liwu in Hejian as Tangmuyi, and the income from the town was used for bathing.
Liu Shuo, the Marquis of Duxiang, was fond of drinking and made many mistakes. The emperor sent Ma Guiren to manage the king's household affairs.
In the eleventh year of Jian'an, the feudal state was abolished.
Liu Shu, the Marquis of Jiedu Ting, was granted the title of the son of King Xiao of Hejian.
Liu Shu died and was succeeded by his son Liu Chang.
Chang died and was succeeded by his son Liu Hong, who was made Lingdi by General Dou Wu.
In the first year of Jianning, Empress Dowager Dou issued an imperial edict to honor the imperial ancestor Liu Shu as Emperor Xiaoyuan. His wife, Xia, was named Empress Xiaoyuan, the mausoleum was called Dunling, and the temple was called Jingmiao.
They all set up ministers and ministers to make Situ Chijie serve policy books and seals in the river, and use Tailao to offer sacrifices. They often sent Zhongchang to serve in the river at the beginning of the year.
In the third year of Xiping, the envoy worshiped Liu Lizi, the king of Hejian An, as Liu Kang, the king of Jinan, and served Emperor Xiaoren to offer sacrifices.
Liu Kang passed away and was succeeded by his son Liu Binbei. In the twelfth year of Jian'an, he was killed by the Yellow Turban bandits.
His son Liu Kai succeeded him, and in the 13th year of his reign, Wei accepted the abdication of the Han Dynasty and made him the Marquis of Chongde.
Liu Shu, the Huaiwang of Chengyang, was divided into Jiyin and the country in the second year of Yongyuan. He died in the fifth year of Lili and was buried in the capital.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
立五年薨，葬于京师，无子，国除，还并济阴。
广宗殇王万岁，以永元五年封，分巨鹿为国。
其年薨，葬于京师。
无子，国除，并还巨鹿。
平原怀王胜，和帝长子也。
不载母氏。
少有痼疾，延平元年封。
立八年薨，葬于京师。
无子，邓太后立乐安夷王宠子得为平原王，奉胜后，是为哀王。
得立六年薨，无子，永宁元年，太后又立河间王开子都乡侯翼为平原王嗣。安帝废之。国除。
论曰：传称吴子夷昧，甚德而度，有吴国者，必其子孙。
章帝长者，事从敦厚，继祀汉室，咸其苗裔，古人之言信哉！
translation: 
Having no children, the feudal state was removed and still merged into Jiyin.
Liu Wansui, the mourning king of Guangzong, was granted the title in the fifth year of Yongyuan, and he was divided into Julu as the country.
He died this year and was buried in the capital.
Having no children, the feudal state was removed. Still merged into Julu.
Liu Sheng, King Huai of Pingyuan, was the eldest son of Emperor He.
The mother's name is not recorded.
He had a difficult-to-treat disease when he was young, so he was granted the title in the first year of Yanping.
He died in the eighth year of his life and was buried in the capital.
Having no children, Empress Dowager Deng made Liu De, the son of Liu Chong, King of Le'anyi, the King of Pingyuan. As a descendant of Liu Sheng, he was the King of Ai.
Liu Deli died in the sixth year without any children. In the first year of Yongning, the Queen Mother appointed Liu Kaizi, the king of Hejian, and Liu Yi, the duxianghou, as the successor of the Pingyuan king. Emperor An deposed him and removed the feudal state.
The historian commented: "Zuo Zhuan" said that Wu Ziyi was ignorant, very virtuous and magnanimous. Whoever is the king of Wu must be his descendant.
Emperor Zhang was a well-educated elder, honest and honest in his dealings, and all the people who inherited the Han Dynasty were his descendants. The words of the ancients are really trustworthy!


