Chunk 0: 
original: 
武皇帝讳炎，字安世，文帝长子也。
宽惠仁厚，沈深有度量。
魏嘉平中，封北平亭侯，历给事中、奉车都尉、中垒将军，加散骑常侍，累迁中护军、假节。
迎常道乡公于东武阳，迁中抚军，进封新昌乡侯。
及晋国建，立为世子，拜抚军大将军，开府、副贰相国。
初，文帝以景帝既宣帝之嫡，早世无后，以帝弟攸为嗣，特加爱异，自谓摄居相位，百年之后，大业宜归攸。
每曰： 此景王之天下也，吾何与焉。
将议立世子，属意于攸。
何曾等固争曰： 中抚军聪明神武，有超世之才。
发委地，手过膝，此非人臣之相也。
由是遂定。
咸熙二年五月，立为晋王太子。
八月辛卯，文帝崩，太子嗣相国、晋王位。
translation: 
Emperor Wu's name was Yan and his courtesy name was Anshi. He was the eldest son of Emperor Wen of Jin Dynasty.
He is tolerant and kind, deep and magnanimous.
During the Jiaping period of Wei Dynasty, he was granted the title of Tinghou of Beiping, and successively served as the commander of the army, the commander of the army, the general of the base, the general of the cavalry, the general of the cavalry, and the title of the protector of the army and the holiday.
He went to Wuyang in the east to welcome Changdao Xianggong to the throne, moved to Zhongfujun, and was granted the title of Xinchang Xianghou in Jin Dynasty.
When the Jin State was established, he was established as the heir apparent and granted the title of General of Fujun, Kaifu, and Deputy Second Prime Minister.
At the beginning, because Emperor Jing was the heir of Emperor Xuan and died early without any heirs, Emperor Wen regarded Emperor Wu's younger brother Sima You as a heir of Emperor Jing. He took special care of him, thinking that he would be the prime minister and should pass on his great legacy to Sima You after his death.
Chang said: This is King Jing's world, and I will not get involved.
When it was time to decide on the crown prince, Emperor Wen wanted to appoint Sima You.
He Zeng and others persisted in their dissent and said: The Zhongfu Army is smart and martial, with extraordinary talents.
The hair is on the floor and the arms are above the knees. This is not the appearance of a minister!
It’s been settled ever since.
In May of the second year of Emperor Xianxi of Wei Yuan Dynasty, he was established as the crown prince of Jin Dynasty.
On the ninth day of August, Emperor Wen died, and the prince inherited the titles of the Prime Minister and the King of Jin.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
下令宽刑宥罪，抚众息役，国内行服三日。
是月，长人见于襄武，长三丈，告县人王始曰： 今当太平。
九月戊午，以魏司徒何曾为丞相，镇南将军王沈为御史大夫，中护军贾充为卫将军，议郎裴秀为尚书令、光禄大夫，皆开府。
十一月，初置四护军，以统城外诸军。
乙未，令诸郡中正以六条举淹滞：一曰忠恪匪躬，二曰孝敬尽礼，三曰友于兄弟，四曰洁身劳谦，五曰信义可复，六曰学以为己。
是时晋德既洽，四海宅心。
于是天子知历数有在，乃使太保郑冲奉策曰： 咨尔晋王：我皇祖有虞氏诞膺灵运，受终于陶唐，亦以命于有夏。
惟三后陟配于天，而咸用光敷圣德。
translation: 
Orders were given to relax punishments, pardon sinners, appease the people, reduce corvee service, and observe three days of mourning in the country.
This month, a tall man appeared in Xiangwu, three feet tall, and said to the local Wang Shi: Now is the time of peace and prosperity.
On the seventh day of the ninth lunar month, Wei Situ He Zeng became prime minister, Zhennan General Wang Shen became Yushi Dafu, Central Guards Jia Chong became Guard General, Yi Lang Pei Xiu became Shangshu Ling and Guanglu Dafu. These people can open offices and set up staff.
In November, the Fourth Guard Army was set up for the first time to command the armies outside the city.
On the 15th, he ordered the officials of all counties to recommend talents among the people according to six standards: the first one is loyalty, respect, diligence and self-restraint, the second one is filial piety, the third one is brotherhood and friendliness, the fourth one is self-discipline, hard work and humility, the fifth one is to strictly keep faith and words and deeds can be verified, and the sixth one is to study hard to cultivate oneself.
At this time, the virtues of the King of Jin were spread all over the world, and the whole world returned to his heart.
So the emperor knew that the movement of heaven would be transferred to Jin, so he sent the Taibao Zheng Chongfeng to read the policy book and said: Inform the king of Jin that my imperial ancestor has the Yu family. In response to the order of heaven, he received the Zen of Tao and Tang and became the throne. He also gave the world to Youxia.
Only Xia Yu, Shang Tang, and Zhou Wen were able to match the sky, all because their holy virtues were like the sun and moon shining brightly.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
自兹厥后，天又辑大命于汉。火德既衰，乃眷命我高祖。方轨虞夏四代之明显，我不敢知。
惟王乃祖乃父，服膺明哲，辅亮我皇家，勋德光于四海。格尔上下神祗，罔不克顺，地平天成，万邦以乂。
应受上帝之命，协皇极之中。
肆予一人，祗承天序，以敬授尔位，历数实在尔躬。允执其中，天禄永终。
於戏！王其钦顺天命。
率循训典，底绥四国，用保天休，无替我二皇之弘烈。
帝初以礼让，魏朝公卿何曾、王沈等固请，乃从之。
泰始元年冬十二月丙寅，设坛于南郊，百僚在位及匈奴南单于四夷会者数万人，柴燎告类于上帝曰： 皇帝臣炎敢用玄牡明告于皇皇后帝：魏帝稽协皇运，绍天明命以命炎。
translation: 
After that, Heaven again poured great destiny into the Han Dynasty. As the fire virtues of the Han Dynasty declined, the emperor favored my great ancestor and granted it to the world. Our dynasty imitated the outstanding virtues and achievements of the Yu, Xia, Shang, and Zhou dynasties. I don’t know all about it.
It’s just that your grandfather and father are wise and wise, assisting my royal family, and their virtues illuminate the world, and all ghosts and gods above and below are harmonious, the water and the earth are peaceful, the heaven is orderly, and all nations are in peace.
He should accept the order of God and follow the righteous path of the emperor.
I respectfully entrust you with the position of Emperor by the destiny of Heaven. The important responsibility of the new dynasty lies with you. You should follow the right path so that the destiny of the country can be long-lasting. ah!
The king should respect and obey the destiny.
All must follow the precepts of the Holy Prophet, appease the countries in the four directions, safeguard the good will of heaven, and do not abandon the great cause of our two emperors.
Emperor Wu began to give in politely, and the Wei Dynasty ministers He Zeng, Wang Shen and others made firm requests, and Emperor Wu finally agreed to take the throne as emperor.
On the 17th day of the twelfth lunar month in the first year of Taishi, an altar was set up in the southern suburbs. Tens of thousands of ethnic minorities from all over the country, including the reigning Bailuo and Xiongnu Nanchanyu, gathered together. They lit fires, held rice dog sacrifices, and announced to heaven: The emperor's minister Sima Yan dared to use Xuanmu to declare to the emperor's land.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
昔者唐尧，熙隆大道，禅位虞舜，舜又以禅禹，迈德垂训，多历年载。
暨汉德既衰，太祖武皇帝拨乱济时，扶翼刘氏，又用受命于汉。
粤在魏室，仍世多故，几于颠坠，实赖有晋匡拯之德，用获保厥肆祀，弘济于艰难，此则晋之有大造于魏也。
诞惟四方，罔不祗顺，郭清梁岷，包怀扬越，八纮同轨，祥瑞屡臻，天人协应，无思不服。
肆予宪章三后，用集大命于兹。炎维德不嗣，辞不获命。
于是群公卿士，百辟庶僚，黎献陪隶，暨于百蛮君长，佥曰： 皇天鉴下，求人之瘼，既有成命，固非克让所得距违。
天序不可以无统，人神不可以旷主。
炎虔奉皇运。寅畏天威，敬简元辰，升坛受禅，告类上帝，永答众望。
礼毕，即洛阳宫幸太极前殿，诏曰： 昔朕皇祖宣王，圣哲钦明，诞应期运，熙帝之载，肇启洪基。
伯考景王，履道宣猷，缉熙诸夏。
至于皇考文王，睿哲光远，允协灵祗，应天顺时，受兹明命。仁济于宇宙，功格于上下。肆魏氏弘鉴于古训，仪刑于唐虞，畴咨群后，爰辑大命于朕身。
予一人畏天之命，用不敢违。
惟朕寡德，负荷洪烈，托于王公之上，以君临四海，惴惴惟惧，罔知所济。
惟尔股肱爪牙之佐，文武不贰之臣，乃祖乃父，实左右我先王，光隆我大业。
思与万国，共享休祚。
translation: 
In the past, when Emperor Yao of the Tang Dynasty was prosperous, he abdicated to Yu and Shun, and Shun abdicated to Yu. His high virtues will be passed down to future generations and will last for a long time.
When the virtue of the Han Dynasty declined, Emperor Taizu Wu brought order to things, saved the situation, and supported the Liu family, so the Han Dynasty surrendered to the Wei Dynasty.
The Wei family had many troubles over the years and was almost defeated. It was thanks to Jin Kuang's help and rescue that they were able to protect the clan and tide over the difficulties. This shows that Jin made great contributions to Wei.
Everyone in the four directions is obedient, clarifying Liang and Min, appeasing Yang Yue, all directions are on the same track, auspiciousness appears repeatedly, heaven and man are in harmony, and all thoughts are obeyed.
I follow the example of the Three Empresses, and the destiny of heaven is gathered here. Yan's virtue is not enough to succeed him, and he will not be allowed to give in.
So all the ministers, princes and ministers, the sages and ministers, and the rulers of hundreds of barbarians all said: The Emperor and Heaven, considering the earth, seek the suffering of the people. The destiny has been fulfilled, and it is impossible to refuse to disobey it with humility.
The lineage of emperors cannot be without succession, and humans and gods cannot be without masters.
Yan respects the emperor's luck, fears the power of heaven, chooses an auspicious day, ascends the altar to receive Zen, and tells the story to heaven to satisfy the public's expectations.
After the ceremony, I went to the Taiji Front Hall of Luoyang Palace and issued an edict: In the past, my imperial ancestor, King Xuan, was a sage and wise man. He followed the destiny, prospered the emperor's career, and created a great foundation.
King Bo Kao Jing walked on the high road and conspired among the people, illuminating all the Xia.
As for King Xuan Kao Wen, he was wise and far-reaching, harmonious with people and gods, obeyed the destiny, accepted this clear mandate, benevolent and virtuous, and benefited the universe, and his merits reached all levels. In view of the ancient teachings, the Wei family imitated Yao and Shun, consulted the ministers, and entrusted me with great orders.
I fear destiny and dare not disobey it.
I have a meager virtue, but I shoulder a great responsibility. I rely on the princes and dominate the world. I am worried and fearful, and I don't know what to do.
You are the assistants of the minions and loyal ministers in civil and military affairs. Erzuer father, you are actually the assistant ministers on the left and right of my late king, who will prosper the great cause of Jin Dynasty.
I want to share the world with the subjects of all nations.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
于是大赦，改元。
赐天下爵，人五级；鳏寡孤独不能自存者谷，人五斛。复天下租赋及关市之税一年，逋债宿负皆勿收。除旧嫌，解禁锢，亡官失爵者悉复之。
丁卯，遣太仆刘原告于太庙。
封魏帝为陈留王，邑万户，居于鄴宫；魏氏诸王皆为县侯。
迫尊宣王为宣皇帝，景王为景皇帝，文王为文皇帝，宣王妃张氏为宣穆皇后。
尊太妃王氏曰皇太后，宫曰崇化。
translation: 
So a general amnesty was implemented and the reign name was changed.
The officials of the world are given titles of five degrees each. Those who are widowed and lonely and unable to support themselves are given five dendrobiums of grain. They are exempted from the taxes of the world and customs for one year. Old debts in the past will no longer be collected. All old suspicions and imprisonments will be lifted. Those who have lost their titles will be restored.
On the 18th, Liu Yuan, the imperial servant, was sent to the Imperial Ancestral Temple.
The Emperor of Wei was granted the title of King Chenliu, with a population of 10,000 households, and a residence in Ye Palace; all the kings of the Wei family were granted the title of County Marquis.
King Xuan was named Emperor Xuan, King Jing was named Emperor Jing, King Wen was named Emperor Wen, and Princess Xuan's concubine Zhang was named Queen Xuanmu.
The concubine Wang was honored as the empress dowager, and the palace she lived in was called Chonghua Palace.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
封皇叔祖父孚为安平王，皇叔父干为平原王，亮为扶风王，伷为东莞王，骏为汝阴王，肜为梁王，伦为琅邪王，皇弟攸为齐王，鉴为乐安王，几为燕王，皇从伯父望为义阳王，皇从叔父辅为渤海王，晃为下邳王，瑰为太原王，圭为高阳王，衡为常山王，子文为沛王，泰为陇西王，权为彭城王，绥为范阳王，遂为济南王，逊为谯王，睦为中山王，凌为北海王，斌为陈王，皇从父兄洪为河间王，皇从父弟楙为东平王。
以骠骑将军石苞为大司马，封乐陵公，车骑将军陈骞为高平公，卫将军贾充为车骑将军、鲁公，尚书令裴秀为巨鹿公，侍中荀勖为济北公，太保郑冲为太傅、寿光公，太尉王祥为太保、睢陵公，丞相何曾为太尉、郎陵公，御史大夫王沈为骠骑将军、博陵公，司空荀顗为临淮公，镇北大将军卫瓘为菑阳公。
其余增封进爵各有差，文武普增位二等。改景初历为太始历，腊以酉，社以丑。
translation: 
The imperial uncle Sima Fu was named the King of Anping, the imperial uncle Sima Qian was named the Pingyuan King, Sima Liang was named the Fufeng King, Sima Qianyou was named the Dongguan King, Sima Jun was named the Ruyin King, Sima Wei was named the Liang King, and Sima Lun was named. The king of Lang is King Ya, the emperor's younger brother Sima You is the king of Qi, Sima Jian is the king of Le'an, Sima Ji is the king of Yan, the emperor's uncle Sima Wang is the king of Yiyang, the emperor's uncle Sima Fu is the king of Bohai, and Sima Huang is the king of Xiapi. , Sima Huan was the King of Taiyuan, Sima Wanggui was the King of Gaoyang, Sima Heng was the King of Changshan, Sima Ziwen was the King of Pei, Sima Tai was the King of Longxi, Sima Quan was the King of Pengcheng, Sima Sui was the King of Fanyang, Sima Then he became the king of Jinan, Sima Xun became the king of Qiao, Sima Mu became the king of Zhongshan, Sima Ling became the king of Beihai, Sima Bin became the king of Chen, the emperor's father's brother Sima Hong became the king of Hejian, and the emperor's father's brother Sima Mao became the king of Dongping.
Shi Bao, the general of the cavalry, was appointed as Grand Sima, and was given the title of Duke of Leling. General Chen Qian of the cavalry was named Duke of Gaoping. General Jia Chong of the Wei was appointed as the general of cavalry and Duke of Lu. Pei Xiu, the minister of the secretariat, was named Duke of Julu. Fu, Shouguang Gong, Taiwei Wang Xiang was Taibao and Suiling Gong, Prime Minister He Zeng was Taiwei and Langling Gong, Yushi doctor Wang Shen was Hussar General and Boling Gong, Sikong Xunqiye was Linhuai Gong, Zhenbei General Wei Guan was Suiyang Gong.
The rest were awarded various titles, and civil and military officials were generally promoted to the second rank. The "Jingchu Calendar" was changed to the "Taishi Calendar", with the wax festival in You and the social day in Chou.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
戊辰，下诏大弘俭约，出御府珠玉玩好之物，颁赐王公以下各在差。
置中军将军，以统宿卫七军。
己巳，诏陈留王载天子旌旗，备五时副车，行魏正朔，郊祀天地，礼乐制度皆如魏旧，上书不称臣。
赐山阳公刘康、安乐公刘禅子弟一人为附马都尉。
乙亥，以安平王孚为太宰、假黄钺、大都督中外诸军事。
诏曰： 昔王凌谋废齐王，而王竟不足以守位。
邓艾虽矜功失节，然束手受罪。
今大赦其家，还使立后。
兴灭继绝，约法省刑。
除魏氏宗室禁锢。
诸将吏遭三年丧者，遣宁终丧。
百姓复其徭役。
罢部曲将长吏以下质任。省郡国御调，禁乐府靡丽百戏之伎及雕文游畋之具。开直言之路，置谏官以掌之。
translation: 
On the 19th, an edict was issued to spread the trend of frugality. The pearls and jade in the palace were taken out and rewarded to officials below the princes and princes in varying amounts.
A general of the central army was appointed to lead the seven armies of Suwei.
On the 20th, an edict was issued asking King Chenliu to carry the emperor's banner when traveling, to prepare auxiliary vehicles for the five seasons, to use Wei's calendar, to worship heaven and earth in the suburbs like the emperor, and to follow Wei's rules for rituals and music.
One of the sons of Shanyang Gong Liu Kang and Anle Gong Liu Chan was given the title of Prince Consort Captain.
On the 26th, Sima Fu, King of Anping, was appointed as the Grand Administrator, the fake Huangyue, and the Grand Commander in charge of the Chinese and foreign military forces.
The edict was issued: In the past, Wang Chang planned to depose the King of Qi, but the King of Qi was eventually deposed.
Although Deng Ai was proud of his merits and betrayed his integrity, he still folded his hands and confessed.
Today, the two families are granted amnesty and they can return to their hometown to raise heirs.
Reviving what was destroyed, continuing what was destroyed, simplifying the law and saving punishment.
The confinement of the Wei clan was lifted.
All generals, non-commissioned officers and officials who have been mourned for three years will be sent back to mourn for three years.
People who have been mourning for three years are exempted from corvee during the period of mourning.
It exempts generals and officials below from using their families as hostages, saves the supplies that counties and states transport to the capital, prohibits Yuefu, extravagant opera skills and ornately carved hunting equipment, opens the door to public opinion, and sets up admonishers to take charge of this matter.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
是月，凤皇六、青龙三、白龙二、麒麟各一见于郡国。
二年春正月丙戌，遣兼侍中侯史光等持节四方，循省风俗，除禳祝之不在祀典者。
丁亥，有司请建七庙，帝重其役，不许。
庚寅，罢鸡鸣鼓。
辛丑，尊景皇帝夫人羊氏曰景皇后，宫曰弘训。
丙午，立皇后杨氏。
二月，除汉宗室禁锢。
己未，常山王衡薨。
诏曰： 五等之封，皆录旧勋。
本为县侯者传封次子为亭侯，乡侯为关内侯，亭侯为关中侯，皆食本户十分之一。
丁丑，郊祀宣皇帝以配天，宗祀文皇帝于明堂以配上帝。
庚午，诏曰： 古者百官，官箴王阙。然保氏特以谏诤为职，今之侍中、常侍实处此位。
择其能正色弼违匡救不逮者，以兼此选。
translation: 
During this month, six phoenixes, three blue dragons, two white dragons, and one unicorn appeared in each county.
On the seventh day of the first lunar month of the second year, Shi Guang and others were sent to all parts of the country to inspect the customs and eliminate the sacrifices that were not included in the ceremony.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, a minister requested the construction of seven temples. Emperor Wu thought that the corvee was too heavy and would not allow it.
On the eleventh day, those who sang rooster songs stopped.
On the 22nd, Emperor Zunjing's wife Yang Shi became Queen Jing, and the palace she lived in was called Hongxun Palace.
On the 27th, Queen Yang was established.
In February, the confinement of the Han clan was lifted.
On the eleventh day, Sima Heng, the king of Changshan, died.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The five titles of nobility are reserved for the heroes of the past.
If a person was originally a county marquis, his second son would be granted the title of Tinghou when he ascended the title; if he was originally a township marquis, his second son would be a Guannei marquis; if he was originally a Tinghou, his second son would be a Guanzhong marquis, and they would all receive one-tenth of the title of the title.
On the 29th, Emperor Xuan was worshiped in the suburbs to be worthy of heaven, and Emperor Wen was worshiped in Mingtang to be worthy of heaven.
The edict issued on the 22nd said: In ancient times, hundreds of officials were set up to admonish the king for his mistakes. However, Bao's officials have a special job of admonishing. Today's Shizhong and Changshi are actually in this position.
Choose those who can correct violations and rescue deficiencies to take on this position.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
三月戊戌，吴人来吊祭，有司奏为答诏。
帝曰： 昔汉文、光武怀抚尉佗、公孙述，皆未正君臣之仪，所以羁糜未宾也。
皓遣使之始，未知国庆，但以书答之。
夏五月戊辰，诏曰： 陈留王操尚谦冲，每事辄表，非所以优崇之也。
主者喻意，非大事皆使王官表上之。
壬子，骠骑将军博陵公王沈卒。
六月壬申，济南王遂薨。
秋七月辛巳，营太庙，致荆山之木，采华山之石 铸铜柱十二，涂以黄金，镂以百物，缀以明珠。
戊戌，谯王逊薨。
丙午晦，日有蚀之。八月丙辰，省右将军官。
初，帝虽从汉魏之制，既葬除服。而深衣素冠，降席撤膳，哀敬如丧者。
戊辰，有司奏改服进膳，不许，遂礼终而后复吉。及太后之丧，亦如之。九月乙未，散骑常侍皇甫陶、傅玄领谏官，上书谏诤，有司奏请寝之。
诏曰： 凡关言人主，人臣所至难，而苦不能听纳，自古忠臣直士之所慷慨也。每陈事出付主者，多从深刻，乃云恩贷当由主上，是何言乎？
其详评议。
戊戌，有司奏： 大晋继三皇之踪，蹈舜禹之迹，应天顺时，受禅有魏，宜一用前代正朔服色，皆如虞遵唐故事。
奏可。
冬十月丙午朔，日有蚀之。
丁未，诏曰： 昔舜葬苍梧，农不易亩；禹葬成纪，市不改肆。
上惟祖考清简之旨，所徙陵十里内居人，动为烦扰，一切停之。
十一月己卯，倭人来献方物。
并圜丘、方丘于南、北郊，二至之祀合于二郊。
translation: 
On March 20th, people from Wu came to offer condolences, and a superior responded with an edict.
Emperor Wu said: In the past, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty recruited Wei Ta, and Emperor Guangwu recruited Gongsun Shu, but they did not follow the etiquette of a monarch towards his ministers. This was to win over those who did not surrender.
When Sun Hao began to send envoys, he did not know that Jin had established a country and established an emperor, so he only thanked him in letters.
On Wuchen day of the fifth month of Xia Dynasty, an edict was issued saying: King Chenliu has a humble character and always has to go to court for everything. This is not my request for preferential treatment and respect for him.
The person in charge of the matter explained to him that as long as it was not a major matter, it would be enough to let King Chenliu's officials come to the table.
On the day of Renzi, the hussar general Prince Boling died.
On June 25th, King Sima of Jinan died.
On the fifth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, the Ancestral Temple was built. Timber was transported from Jingshan Mountain, stones from Huashan Mountain were mined, twelve copper pillars were cast, coated with a layer of gold, carved with hundreds of objects, and embellished with pearls.
On the 22nd, Sima Xun, the king of Qiao, died.
On the 30th, there is a solar eclipse. On the tenth day of August, the rank of right general was reduced.
At the beginning, although Emperor Wu implemented the mourning system of the Han and Wei dynasties, mourning clothes were removed after the burial, but he still wore dark clothes and a plain crown.
On the 22nd, a minister asked him to change his clothes and eat as usual, but Emperor Wu refused. He waited until the mourning period was over before returning to normal. The queen also mourned for the Queen Mother. On September 20th, Huangfu Tao and Fu Xuan, who were regular attendants of Sanqi and remonstrated with the officials, wrote a letter of remonstrance. A minister asked him to suppress the remonstrance and not discuss it.
Emperor Wu issued an edict saying: It is difficult for ministers to express criticisms related to their masters, and they suffer from the fact that their masters cannot listen to them. Since ancient times, loyal ministers and honest men have sighed generously for this, and often handed over a book of statements to the person in charge.
Let the courtiers comment in detail.
On September 23, a minister reported that the Jin Dynasty should inherit the achievements of the three emperors, follow in the footsteps of Shun and Yu, obey the laws of heaven, and accept the Zen of Wei. It should follow the calendar of the previous generation, just like Yu and Shun followed the example of Tang Yao.
Emperor Wu approved.
On the first day of October in winter, there is a solar eclipse.
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, an edict was issued saying: In the past, when Shun was buried in Cangwu, the farmers did not change the cultivated land; Yu was buried in Chengji, and the market place did not change.
In order to recall the purpose of the ancestors' examination of the Qing Dynasty bamboo slips, the residents within ten miles of the mausoleum were relocated, which annoyed the people and stopped the implementation.
On the fifth day of the eleventh month, the Japanese came to offer foreign objects from their country.
The circular mounds for worshiping the sky and the square mounds for worshiping the earth were merged into the southern and northern suburbs, and the sacrifices for the summer solstice and winter solstice were merged into the sacrifices for the two suburbs.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
罢山阳公国督军，除其禁制。
己丑，追尊景帝夫人夏侯氏为景怀皇后。
辛卯，迁祖祢神主于太庙。
十二月，罢农官为郡县。
是岁，凤皇六、青龙十、黄龙九、麒麟各一见于郡国。
三年春正月癸丑，白龙二见于弘农渑池。
丁卯，立皇子衷为皇太子。
诏曰： 朕以不德，托于四海之上，兢兢祗畏，惧无以康济寓内，思与天下式明王度，正本清源，于置胤树嫡，非所先务。
又近世每建太子，宽宥施惠之事，间不获已，顺从王公卿士之议耳。
方今世运垂平，将陈之以德义，示之以好恶，使百姓蠲多幸之虑，笃终始之行，曲惠小仁，故无取焉。
咸使知闻。
三月戊寅，初令二千石得终三年丧。
丁未，昼昏。
罢武卫将军官。
以李憙为太子太傅。
太山石崩。
夏四月戊午，张掖太守焦胜上言，氐池县大柳谷口有玄石一所，白画成文，实大晋之休祥，图之以献。诏以制币告于太庙，藏之天府。
秋八月，罢都护将军，以其五署还光禄勋。
translation: 
Remove the governor of Shanyang Principality and remove its prohibitions.
On the 15th, Xiahou, the wife of Emperor Jing, was posthumously named Queen Jinghuai.
On the 17th, the ancestors and fathers were moved to the Ancestral Temple.
In December, agricultural officials in various places were dismissed and returned to counties and counties.
During this year, six phoenixes, ten green dragons, nine yellow dragons, and one unicorn appeared in each county.
In the spring of the third year of the first month of Guichou, two white dragons appeared in Mianchi, Hongnong.
On the day of Ding Mao, the prince Sima Zhong was made the crown prince.
The edict said: With my immoral body, I have been entrusted to the world. I work conscientiously and revere my duties. I am afraid that I will not be able to make Yu Nei happy. I want to clarify to the people of the world that the king's legal system has its original origin. As for the matter of establishing a prince, it is not an urgent matter.
Furthermore, in modern times, every time a prince is established, he must be given the gift of clemency. This matter cannot be avoided, and he often just obeys the opinions of the princes and ministers.
If there is peace in the world today, we will state our virtues and righteousness to the world, show our likes and dislikes, and make the people abandon the idea of ​​getting lucky. Instead, they must behave faithfully, consistently, and give small favors. This is not advisable.
Let everyone know this.
On the sixth day of March, two thousand stone officials were ordered to mourn for three years for the first time.
On the day of Dingwei, the day is dark.
Remove the military guard general from his post.
Li Xi was appointed as the crown prince and tutor.
The Taishan stone collapsed.
On April 16th in the summer, Jiao Sheng, the prefect of Zhangye, reported that there was a black stone at the mouth of Daliu Valley in Dichi County with white inscriptions on it, which was indeed a symbol of good luck in the Jin Dynasty. He painted the inscriptions and dedicated them to the emperor. He issued an edict to make coins as a sacrifice to the Ancestral Temple, and the pictures and texts were stored in Tianfu.
In the eighth month of autumn, General Duhu was dismissed and the five departments under his jurisdiction were returned to Guang Luxun.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
九月甲申，诏曰： 古者以德诏爵，以庸制禄，虽下士犹食上农，外足以奉公忘私，内足以养亲施惠。
今在位者禄不代耕，非所以崇化之本也。
其议增吏俸。
赐王公以下帛各有差。
以太尉何曾为太保，义阳王望为太尉，司空荀顗为司徒。
冬十月，听士卒遭父母丧者，非在疆场，皆得奔赴。
十二月，徙宗圣侯孔震为奉圣亭侯。
山阳公刘康来朝。
禁星气谶纬之学。
四年春正月辛未，以尚书令裴秀为司空。
丙戌，律令成，封爵赐帛各有差。
有星孛于轸。
丁亥，帝耕于藉田。
戊子，诏曰： 古设象刑而众不犯，今虽参夷而奸不绝，何德刑相去之远哉！
translation: 
On September 15th, an edict was issued stating: In the ancient system, titles were determined by virtue and salaries were determined by merit. Although the salary of a corporal was equivalent to the income of a superior farmer, externally they could serve the public and forget selfishness, and internally it was enough to support their relatives and benefit them.
Nowadays, the official salary of the current officials cannot be paid to farm the land for them, which will not achieve the purpose of promoting enlightenment.
It can be agreed to increase official salaries.
The gifts range from prince to prince.
Yi Taiwei was once the Taibao, Sima Wang, the king of Yiyang, was the Taiwei, and Sikong Xunji was the Situ.
In the tenth month of winter, soldiers who have lost their parents are allowed to go home to attend to the funeral if they are not on the battlefield.
In December, Kong Zhen, the Holy Marquis of the Relocation Sect, was appointed the Marquis of Fengshengting.
Liu Kang, Duke of Shanyang, came to court.
Superstitious doctrines such as stargazing, fortune telling, and latitude prediction are prohibited.
On the third day of the first lunar month in the fourth year of spring, Pei Xiu was made Sikong by the minister.
On the 18th day of the first lunar month, the new laws and regulations were completed, and the titles and titles varied.
A comet appeared near the star Zhen.
On the 19th, Emperor Wu went to the fields reserved for the emperor and ministers to cultivate.
On the 20th, an edict was issued saying: In ancient times, symbolic punishments were imposed but no one committed the crime. Today, although three tribes are exterminated, treachery and evil continue. How far apart is morality and punishment!


Chunk 11: 
original: 
先帝深愍黎元，哀矜庶狱，乃命群后，考正典刑。
朕守遗业，永惟保乂皇基，思与万国以无为为政。
方今阳春养物，东作始兴，朕亲率王公卿士耕藉田千亩。
又律令既就，班之天下，将以简法务本，惠育海内。
宜宽有罪，使得自新，其大赦天下。长吏、郡丞、长史各赐马一匹。
二月庚子，增置山阳公国相、郎中令、陵令、杂工宰人、鼓吹车马各有差。
罢中军将军，置北军中候官。
甲寅，以东海刘俭有至行，拜为郎。
以中军将军羊祜为尚书左仆射，东莞王伷为尚书右仆射。
三月戊子，皇太后王氏崩。
夏四月戊戌，太保、睢陵公王祥薨。
己亥，祔葬文明皇后王氏于崇阳陵。
罢振威、扬威护军官，置左右积弩将军。
六月甲申朔，诏曰： 郡国守相，三载一巡行属县，必以春，此古者所以述职宣风展义也。
translation: 
The late emperor was deeply concerned about the people and pitied the prisoners, so he ordered his ministers to examine the criminal law.
I should uphold the legacy and keep the imperial industry stable forever. I should rule all nations by doing nothing.
Now the spring is nourishing all things, and spring plowing has begun. I personally lead the princes and officials to cultivate thousands of acres of land.
Moreover, the laws and regulations have been completed and promulgated to the world, which will simplify the laws, encourage the people to follow the principles, and educate the people at home.
Sinners should be forgiven so that they can rehabilitate themselves. Today, there is a general amnesty for the whole country, and each of the chief officials, county magistrates, and chief historians will be given a horse.
On the third day of February, the Prime Minister of Shanyang Duke, Lang Zhong Ling, Ling Ling, handyman slaughtering people, and advocating chariots and horses were added.
The generals of the central army were dismissed and the central marquis officers of the northern army were appointed.
On the 17th, Donghai Liu Jian was worshiped as Lang because of his noble character.
Yang Hu, the general of the Chinese army, was appointed as the left servant of Shangshu, and Sima Qianyou, the king of Dongguan, was appointed as the right servant of Shangshu.
On March 21, the Empress Dowager Wang died.
On the second day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Taibao and Prince Suiling died.
On the third day of the Lunar New Year, the civilized queens and Wangs were buried together in Chongyang Mausoleum.
Remove the officers who are promoting their power and protecting their power, and appoint generals who are accumulating crossbows on the left and right.
On the first day of the sixth lunar month, an edict was issued saying: The prefects of each county and the prime ministers of each feudal state will visit their counties once every three years, always in the spring. The ancients used this method to describe their duties and to show their loyalty.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
见长吏，观风俗，协礼律，考度量，存问耆老，亲见百年。
录囚徒，理冤枉，详察政刑得失，知百姓所患苦。
无有远近，便若朕亲临之。
敦喻五教，劝务农功，勉励学者，思勤正典，无为百家庸末，致远必泥。
士庶有好学笃道，孝弟忠信，清白异行者，举而进之；有不孝敬于父母，不长悌于族党，悖礼弃常，不率法令者，纠而罪之。
田畴辟，生业修，礼教设，禁令行，则长吏之能也。
人穷匮，农事荒，奸盗起刑，狱烦，下陵上替，礼义不兴，斯长吏之否也。
若长吏在官公廉，虑不及私，正色直节，不饰名誉者，及身行贪秽，诌黩求容，公节不立，而私门日富者，并谨察之。
扬清激浊，举善弹违，此朕所以垂拱总纲，责成于良二千石也。
於戏戒哉！
translation: 
During the tour, they should meet with senior officials, observe customs, coordinate etiquette, correct weights and measures, express condolences to the elderly, and personally visit centenarians.
They also need to interrogate prisoners, deal with unjust cases, carefully examine the gains and losses of government and punishment, and understand the sufferings of the people.
You will come from far and near, just like I am here in person.
It proclaims the five virtues of filial piety, righteousness, kindness, respect and friendship, encourages farming, encourages students, and makes people diligent in their work and not engage in the low-end things of a hundred schools of thought. Those who travel far away will be in danger.
Among the scholars and common people, if there are those who are eager to learn and uphold morality, are filial, loyal and trustworthy, and are innocent and outstanding, we will recommend and promote them; if there are those who are unfilial to their parents, disrespectful of the party and clan, disobey etiquette and deviate from the law, and do not follow the law, we will picket and punish them.
The fields are opened up, all industries are prosperous, etiquette and education are in place, and orders and prohibitions are implemented, which shows that the chief officials are capable.
The people are poor, farming is neglected, rapes and robberies are frequent, there are many prisons, superiors and subordinates are derelict, and etiquette and justice are not flourishing. This is the dereliction of duty of the chief officials.
If the officials are honest in their official duties, do not seek personal gain, are upright and honest, and do not show off their reputation, as well as those who behave corruptly, flatter and scheming, and do not have the integrity to serve the public and get rich privately, they must be seriously investigated and punished.
Praising the honest and eradicating the filthy, recommending the kind and impeaching the violators, this is the general outline of my governance, and this is what I have entrusted Ryoji Sengoku to do.
Alas! Be alert!


Chunk 13: 
original: 
秋七月，太山石崩，众星西流。
戊午，遣使者侯史光循行天下。
己卯，谒崇阳陵。
九月，青、徐、兗、豫四州大水，伊洛溢，合于河，开仓以振之。
诏曰： 虽诏有所欲，及奏得可而于事不便者，皆不可隐情。
冬十月，吴将施绩入江夏，万郁寇襄阳。
遣太尉义阳王望屯龙陂。
荆州刺史胡烈击败郁。
吴将顾容寇郁林，太守毛炅大破之，斩其交州刺史刘俊、将军修则。
十一月，吴将丁奉等出芍陂，安东将军汝阴王骏与义阳王望击走之。
己未，诏王公卿尹及郡国守相，举贤良方正直言之士。
十二月，班五条诏书于郡国：一曰正身，二曰勤百姓，三曰抚孤寡，四曰敦本息末，五曰去人事。
庚寅，帝临听讼观，录廷尉洛阳狱囚，亲平决焉。
扶南、林邑各遣使来献。
translation: 
In the seventh month of autumn, the rocks on Mount Tai collapsed and the stars flowed westward.
In Wuwu, the envoy Hou Shiguang was sent to patrol the world.
On the 14th, I paid a visit to Chongyang Mausoleum.
In September, floods occurred in Qingzhou, Xuzhou, Yanzhou, and Henan. The Yishui River and Luo River overflowed their banks and entered the Yellow River. The government opened warehouses to help the people.
The edict was issued and said: Although the edict requires that things be done and the memorials are approved, things that are not convenient for implementation must be reported truthfully and cannot be concealed.
In the tenth month of winter, Wu general Shi Ji entered Jiangxia, and thousands of depressions invaded Xiangyang.
Emperor Wu sent Taiwei Yiyang King Sima Wang to garrison Longpi.
Hu Lie, the governor of Jingzhou, defeated Wan Yu.
Wu general Gu Rong invaded Yulin, and the prefect Mao Jiong defeated his army and killed Wu Jiaozhou governor Liu Jun and general Xiu Ze.
In November, Wu general Ding Feng and others sent troops to Shaopi, but were defeated by Andong generals Ruyin King Sima Jun and Yiyang King Sima Wang and fled.
On the 27th, an edict was issued to the princes, ministers, ministers, prefects and ministers to recommend virtuous, upright and upright people.
In December, five edicts were issued to the counties and states. These five edicts are: first, be honest, second, be diligent in the affairs of the people, third, provide care for orphans and widows, fourth, urge the cessation of business, and fifth, prohibit bribery.
On the 28th, Emperor Wu personally visited the hearing hall, inspected the prisoners in Luoyang Prison who belonged to Tingwei, and made judgments in person.
Funan and Linyi each sent envoys to pay tribute.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
五年春正月癸巳，申戒郡国计吏守相令长，务尽地利，禁游食商贩。
丙申，帝临听讼观录囚徒，多所原遣。
青龙二见于荥阳。
二月，以雍州陇右五郡及凉州之金城、梁州之阴平置秦州。
辛巳，白龙二见于赵国。
青、徐、兗三州水，遣使振恤之。
壬寅，以尚书左仆射羊祜都督荆州诸军事，征东大将军卫瓘都督青州诸军事，东莞王伷为镇东大将军都督徐州诸军事。
丁亥，诏曰： 古者岁书群吏之能否，三年而诛赏之。
诸令史前后，但简遣疏劣，而无有劝进，非黜陟之谓也。
其条勤能有称尤异者，岁以为常。吾将议其功劳。
己未，诏蜀相诸葛亮孙京随才署吏。
translation: 
On the first day of the first lunar month in the fifth year of spring, the chief minister of Shenjie County’s national affairs must make full use of the geographical advantages and prohibit idlers and traders.
On the fourth day of the Lunar New Year, Emperor Wu came to the hearing hall and inspected the prisoners. Many prisoners were pardoned and sent back.
Two green dragons appeared in Xingyang.
In February, the five counties of Longyou in Yongzhou, Jincheng in Liangzhou, and Yinping in Liangzhou were merged into Qinzhou.
On the 20th, two white dragons appeared in the State of Zhao.
There were floods in Qingzhou, Xuzhou and Yanzhou, and envoys were sent to help the people.
In Renyin, Shangshu Zuopu Sheyanghu, the governor of Jingzhou, was in charge of all the military affairs in Jingzhou, General Wei Yu, the general who conquered the east, was in charge of all the military affairs in Qingzhou, Sima Qianyou, the king of Dongguan, was the general in Zhendong, and the commander-in-chief was in charge of all the military affairs in Xuzhou.
On the 26th, an edict was issued saying: In ancient times, the competence of officials in various places was recorded every year, and rewards and punishments were carried out after three years.
Today, the officials who are responsible for recording the history of the previous and later orders only choose to record the poor and poor officials, but do not encourage the outstanding ones. This is not in line with the principles of promotion and demotion, reward and punishment.
It is necessary to report those officials who are diligent in political affairs and have outstanding talents and reputations. Once a year, it will become a routine and I will discuss their merits.
On this day, an edict was issued to assign Zhuge Jing, Zhuge Liang's grandson, an official position suitable for his talents.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
夏四月，地震。
五月辛卯朔，凤皇见于赵国。
曲赦交趾、九真、日南五岁刑。
六月，鄴奚官督郭暠上疏陈五事以谏，言甚切直，擢为屯留令，西平人曲路伐登闻彭，言多袄谤，有司奏弃市。
帝曰： 朕之过也。
舍而不问。
罢镇军将军，复置左右将军官。
秋七月，延群公，询谠言。
九月，有星孛于紫宫。
冬十月丙子，以汲郡太守王宏有政绩，赐谷千斛。
十一月，追封谥皇弟兆为城阳哀王，以皇子景度嗣。
十二月，诏州郡举勇猛秀异之才。
六年春正月丁亥朔，帝临轩，不设乐。
吴将丁奉入涡口，扬州刺史牵弘击走之。
三月，赦五岁刑已下。
夏四月，白龙二见于东莞。
五月，立寿安亭侯承为南宫王。
translation: 
Summer April, earthquake.
On the first day of May, the phoenix appeared in the State of Zhao.
Special amnesty for prisoners in Jiaozhi, Jiuzhen, Rinan and other places within five years.
In June, Guo Na, the governor of Xiguan in Yecheng, wrote a letter stating five things to remonstrate. His words were sincere and straightforward, and he was promoted to the post of Tunliu Ling. Qu Lu, a native of Xiping, beat the drum outside the court gate and spread evil rumors. Someone asked him to be executed and his body was thrown into the street.
Emperor Wu said: This is my fault.
Not traceable.
The generals of the town army were dismissed and the generals of the left and right were restored to their posts.
In the seventh month of autumn, I received the public and asked for honest words.
In September, a comet appears in the constellation Purple Palace.
On the 19th day of the tenth month in winter, Wang Hong, the prefect of Jijun, was given a thousand dendrobium grains because of his political achievements.
In November, the posthumous emperor's brother Sima Zhao was posthumously named King Ai of Chengyang, and his son Sima Jingdu was his heir.
In December, Zhaozhou County recommended brave and outstanding talents.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the sixth year of spring, Emperor Wu met with the ministers in front of the palace without playing music.
Wu general Ding Feng invaded the mouth of the vortex and was repulsed by Yangzhou governor Qianhong.
In March, prisoners under the age of five were pardoned.
In April of summer, two white dragons appeared in Dongguan.
In May, Sima Cheng, the Marquis of Anting, was appointed King of Nangong.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
六月戊午，秦州刺史胡烈击叛虏于万斛堆，力战，死之。
诏遣尚书石鉴行安西将军、都督秦州诸军事，与奋威护军田章讨之。
秋七月丁酉，复陇右五郡遇寇害者租赋，不能自存者禀贷之。
乙巳，城阳王景度薨。
诏曰： 自泰始以来，大事皆撰录秘书，写副。后有其事，辄宜缀集以为常。
丁未，以汝阴王骏为镇西大将军、都督雍凉二州诸军事。
九月，大宛献汗血马，焉耆来贡方物。
冬十一月，幸辟雍，行乡饮酒之礼，赐太常博士、学生帛牛酒各有差。
立皇子柬为汝南王。
十二月，吴夏口督、前将军孙秀帅众来奔，拜骠骑将军、开府仪同三司，封会稽公。
戊辰，复置镇军官。
七年春正月丙子，皇太子冠，赐王公以下帛各有差。
translation: 
On the fourth day of the sixth lunar month, Hu Lie, the governor of Qinzhou, fought with the rebels at Wanhudui. He fought hard and died in battle.
The imperial edict was sent to send Shangshu Shi Jian to act as general of Anxi and governor of the Qinzhou army, and to jointly attack the rebels with Fenwei guard Tian Zhang.
On the 14th day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, the residents of the five counties on the right side of Longnan who were harmed by the invaders were exempted from rent and taxes. Those who were unable to survive were given loans from official warehouses for relief.
On the 22nd, Sima Jingdu, king of Chengyang, died.
The edict said: Since the beginning of Taishi, all important events have been recorded in writing, and the secretary has copied the copies. In the future, all important events should be collected and organized as a rule.
On the 24th, Sima Jun, king of Ruyin, was appointed as the general of Zhenxi and the commander-in-chief of the military forces of Yongliang and Liangzhou.
In the ninth month, Dawan presented horses with sweat and blood, and Yanqi came to pay tribute to local foreign objects.
In the eleventh month of winter, Emperor Wu inspected the Imperial Academy in the capital, held a drinking ceremony in the countryside, and gave Dr. Taichang and his students silk, cattle, and wine.
The prince Sima Jian was made King of Runan.
In December, Sun Xiu, the governor of Wu Xiakou and the former general, led his troops to join him. He was appointed General of Hussars, Kaifu Yitong and the Third Division, and was granted the title Duke of Kuaiji.
On the 17th, the post of town officer was restored.
On the twenty-sixth day of the first lunar month in the seventh year of spring, the crown prince came of age and was crowned, and was given silk ranging from prince to prince.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
匈奴帅刘猛叛出塞。
二月，孙皓帅众趋寿阳，遣大司马望屯淮北以距之。
三月，丙戌，司空、巨鹿公裴秀薨。
癸巳，以中护军王业为尚书左仆射，高阳王珪为尚书右仆射。
孙秀部将何崇帅众五千人来降。
夏四月，九真太守董元为吴将虞氾所攻，军败，死之。
北地胡寇金城，凉州刺史牵弘讨之。群虏内叛，围弘于青山，弘军败，死之。
五月，立皇子宪为城阳王。
雍、凉、秦三州饥，赦其境内殊死以下。
闰月，大雩，太官减膳。
诏交趾三郡、南中诸郡无出今年户调。
六月，诏公卿以下举将帅各一人。
辛丑，大司马义阳王望薨。
大雨霖，伊、洛、河溢，流居人四千余家，杀三百余人，有诏振贷给棺。
秋七月癸酉，以车骑将军贾充为都督秦、凉二州诸军事。
吴将陶璜等围交趾，太守杨稷与郁林太守毛炅及日南等三郡降于吴。
八月丙戌，以征东大将军卫瓘为征北大将军、都督幽州诸军事。
丙申，城阳王宪薨。
分益州之南中四郡置宁州，曲赦四郡殊死已下。
translation: 
The Xiongnu commander Liu Meng rebelled and left the fortress.
In March, Sun Hao led his troops to Shouyang, and Jin sent Grand Sima Sima Wang to station troops in Huaibei to resist the Wu army.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Sikong and Julu Gong Pei Xiu died.
On the 14th, Wang Ye of the Central Guard Army was appointed as the left servant of the minister, and Wang Gui, the king of Gaoyang, was appointed as the right servant of the minister.
General He Chong of Sun Xiu's tribe came to surrender with 5,000 men.
In April of summer, Dong Yuan, the prefect of Jiuzhen, was attacked by Wu general Yu Si. The Jin army failed and Dong Yuan died in battle.
The Hu people in the north invaded Jincheng, and Qianhong, the governor of Liangzhou, attacked the Hu people. The Hu people who had surrendered rebelled internally and surrounded Qianhong in Qingshan. Qianhong's army failed and Qianhong died in battle.
In May, Prince Sima Xian was made King of Chengyang.
There was a famine in the three states of Yong, Liang, and Qin, and the sinners in the three states who were under death penalty were pardoned.
In the leap month, a rain-seeking ceremony was held, and the eunuch in charge of the meals of the emperor's officials reduced the meal expenses.
An edict was issued to the three counties of Jiaozhi and the counties of Nanzhong to exempt each household from paying silk and silk this year.
In June, an edict was issued to recommend one general to each of the ministers below.
On the 24th, Sima Wang, the great Sima Yiyang king, died.
Heavy rains continued, and the Yishui, Luoshui, and Yellow Rivers overflowed, destroying more than 4,000 homes and drowning more than 300 people. An edict was issued to provide relief to the victims and provide coffins for the dead.
On the twenty-sixth day of the seventh month in autumn, Jia Chong, the general of chariots and cavalry, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Qin and Liang.
Wu general Tao Huang and others surrounded Jiaozhi, and Jiaozhi prefect Yang Ji, Yulin prefect Mao Jiong and Rinan surrendered to Wu.
On the ninth day of the eighth month, Wei Niu, the general who conquered the east, was appointed as the general who conquered the north and commanded all the military forces in Youzhou.
On the 19th, Sima Xian, king of Chengyang, died.
The four southern counties of Yizhou were separated and established as Ningzhou, and prisoners under death penalty in the four counties were granted amnesty.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
冬十月丁丑，日有蚀之。
十一月丁巳，卫公姬署薨。
十二月，大雪。
罢中领军，并北军中候。
以光禄大夫郑袤为司空。
八年春正月，监军何桢讨匈奴刘猛，累破之，左部帅李恪杀猛而降。
癸亥，帝耕于藉田。
二月乙亥，禁雕文绮组非法之物。
壬辰，太宰、安平王孚薨。
诏内外群官举任边郡者各三人。
帝与右将军皇甫陶论事，陶与帝争言，散骑常侍郑徽表请罪之。
帝曰： 谠言謇谔，所望于左右也。
人主常以阿媚为患，岂以争臣为损哉！
徽越职妄奏，岂朕之意。
遂免徽官。
夏四月，置后将军，以备四军。
六月，益州牙门张弘诬其刺史皇甫晏反，杀之，传首京师。
弘坐伏诛，夷三族。
壬辰，大赦。
丙申，诏复陇右四郡遇寇害者田租。
translation: 
On the first day of October in winter, there is a solar eclipse.
On November 12, Wei Gongji died.
In December, it snows heavily.
The central leader was withdrawn and placed under the command of the Northern Army.
Take Guanglu doctor Zheng Miao as Sikong.
In the spring and first month of the eighth year, the supervisor He Zhen attacked the Xiongnu Liu Meng and repeatedly defeated Liu Meng's army. The Xiongnu left commander Li Ke killed Liu Meng and surrendered to the Jin Dynasty.
On the 19th, Emperor Wu plowed his fields.
On the first day of February, illegal objects with ornate carvings are prohibited.
On the 18th, Dazai and Anping King Sima Fu died.
An edict was issued to ask internal and external officials to recommend three persons each who could serve in the border counties.
Emperor Wu discussed the issue with the right general Huangfu Tao. Huangfu Tao had a dispute with Emperor Wu. Zheng Hui, a regular servant of Sanqi, petitioned to punish Huangfu Tao.
Emperor Wu said: "Be upright and dare to speak out. This is what I ask of my ministers."
The master is often troubled by flatterers, how can he hurt his outspoken minister?
Zheng Hui went beyond his duties and acted recklessly, which was not to my liking.
So Zheng Hui was dismissed from his post.
In April of summer, a rear general was appointed to prepare the four armies.
In June, Yizhou Yamen general Zhang Hong falsely accused Yizhou governor Huangfu Yan of treason, killed Huangfu Yan, and passed his head to the capital.
Zhang Hong was sentenced to death and the three tribes were exterminated.
On the 19th, there was a general amnesty.
On the 23rd, an edict was issued to exempt households in the four counties of Longyou from land rent if they were harmed by bandits.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
秋七月，以车骑将军贾充为司空。
九月，吴西陵督步阐来降，拜卫将军、开府仪同三司，封宜都公。
吴将陆抗攻阐，遣车骑将军羊祜帅众出江陵，荆州刺史杨肇迎阐于西陵，巴东监军徐胤击建平以救阐。
冬十月辛未朔，日有蚀之。
十二月，肇攻抗，不克而还。阐城陷，为抗所禽。
九年春正月辛酉，司空、密陵侯郑袤薨。
二月癸巳，司徒、乐陵公石苞薨。
立安平亭侯隆为安平王。
三月，立皇子祗为东海王。
夏四月戊辰朔，日有蚀之。
五月，旱。以太保何曾领司徒。
六月乙未，东海王祗薨。
秋七月丁酉朔，日有蚀之。
吴将鲁淑围弋阳，征虏将军王浑击败之。
罢五官左右中郎将、弘训太仆、卫尉、大长秋等官。
鲜卑寇广宁，杀略五千人。
诏聘公卿以下子女以备六宫，采择未毕，权禁断婚姻。
translation: 
In the seventh month of autumn, the chariot and cavalry general Jia Chong was appointed as Sikong.
In September, Bu Chan, the governor of Wu Xiling, came to surrender and was worshiped as General Wei, Kaifu Yitong and the Third Division, and was granted the title of Duke of Yidu.
Wu general Lu Kang attacked Buchan, Jin sent cavalry general Yang Hu to lead his army out of Jiangling, Jingzhou governor Yang Zhao went to Xiling to meet Buchan, and Badong supervisor Xu Yin attacked Jianping to rescue Buchan.
On the first day of October in winter, there is a solar eclipse.
In December, Yang Zhao attacked Lu Kang, but retreated without victory. Bu Chan's defense was captured by Lu Kang, and Bu Chan was captured.
On the 22nd day of the first lunar month in the ninth year of spring, Sikong and Milinghou Zheng Miao died.
On February 24, Situ and Leling Gong Shi Bao died.
Sima Long, the Marquis of Anpingting, was appointed King of Anping.
In March, Prince Sima Zhi was established as King of East China Sea.
On the first day of April in summer, there is a solar eclipse. In May, there was a drought.
How could the Etaibao have also held the position of Situ?
On June 29, Sima Zhi, King of the East China Sea, died.
On the first day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, there is a solar eclipse.
Wu general Lu Shu besieged Yiyang, but was defeated by Jin's general Wang Hun.
The officials including Wu Guan, Zhonglang Jiang, Hongxun Taipu, Weiwei, Dachangqiu and other officials were dismissed.
Xianbei invaded Guangning, massacring and plundering five thousand people.
An edict was issued to recruit women from government officials and below to enrich the Sixth Palace. Marriage was temporarily prohibited until the selection was completed.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
冬十月辛巳，制女年十七父母不嫁者，使长吏配之。
十一月丁酉，临宣武观大阅诸军，甲辰乃罢。
十年春正月辛亥，帝耕于藉田。
闰月癸酉，太傅、寿光公郑冲薨。
己卯，高阳王珪薨。
庚辰，太原王瑰薨。
丁亥，诏曰： 嫡庶之别，所以辨上下，明贵贱。
而近世以来，多皆内宠，登妃后之职，乱尊卑之序。
自今以后，皆不得登用妾媵以为嫡正。 二月，分幽州五郡置平州。
三月癸亥，日有蚀之。
夏四月己未，太尉、临淮公荀顗薨。
六月癸巳，临听讼观录囚徒，多所原遣。
是夏，大蝗。
秋七月丙寅，皇后杨氏崩。
壬午，吴平虏将军孟泰、偏将军王嗣等帅众降。
translation: 
On the seventeenth day of the tenth month in winter, if a girl's parents do not want to marry at the age of seventeen, the local governor is ordered to choose a spouse for her and force her to get married.
On the third day of November, Emperor Wu went to Xuanwu Temple to conduct a grand review of the troops. The review was not completed until the tenth day of the eleventh month.
On the eighteenth day of the first lunar month in the tenth year of spring, Emperor Wu plowed his land.
On the eleventh day of the leap month, Zheng Chong, the Grand Tutor and Duke of Shouguang, died.
On the 17th, King Sima Wanggui of Gaoyang died.
On the 18th, Sima Huan, king of Taiyuan, died.
On the 25th, an edict was issued saying: The difference between the eldest son and the concubine is to distinguish between superior and inferior, and to distinguish between noble and inferior.
In recent times, many people have allowed their favored maids and concubines to ascend to the position of concubine, which disrupts the order of hierarchy.
From now on, maids, concubines, and maids are not allowed to be regarded as their legitimate wives. In February, five counties were separated from Youzhou and Pingzhou was established.
On the second day of March, there is a solar eclipse.
On the 28th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Xun Qiyou, the Taiwei and Duke of Linhuai, died.
On the third day of June, the prisoners were inspected at the Court of Justice, and many prisoners were pardoned and sent back.
This summer, there was a plague of locusts.
On the sixth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, Queen Yang died.
On the 22nd, Wu Pinglu general Meng Tai, partial general Wang Si and others surrendered.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
八月，凉州虏寇金城诸郡，镇西将军、汝阴王骏讨之，斩其帅乞文泥等。
戊申，葬元皇后于峻阳陵。
九月癸亥，以大将军陈骞为大尉。
攻拔吴枳里城，获吴立信校尉庄祜。
吴将孙遵、李承帅众寇江夏，太守嵇喜击破之。
立河桥于富平津。
冬十一月，立城东七里涧石桥。
庚午，帝临宣武观，大阅诸军。
十二月，有星孛于轸。
置藉田令。
立太原王子缉为高阳王。
吴威北将军严聪、扬威将军严整、偏将军硃买来降。
是岁，凿陕南山，决河，东注洛，以通运漕。
咸宁元年春正月戊午朔，大赦，改元。
二月，以将士应已娶者多，家有五女者给复。
辛酉，以故鄴令夏谡有清称，赐谷百斛。
以奉禄薄，赐公卿以下帛有差。
叛虏树机能送质请降。
translation: 
In August, the barbarians in Liangzhou invaded the counties of Jincheng. General Zhenxi and King of Ruyin, Sima Jun, led an army to attack them and killed the barbarian commander Qi Wenni and others.
On the 19th, Empress Yang of Yuan Dynasty was buried in Junyang Mausoleum.
On the fourth day of September, General Chen Qian was appointed as Taiwei.
Captured Wu Zhili City and captured Wu Lixin's captain Zhuang Hu.
Wu generals Sun Zun and Li Cheng led their troops to invade Jiangxia, but were defeated by Jiangxia's prefect Ji happy.
The Yellow River Bridge was built in Fupingjin. red tide network
In winter and November, the stone bridge over Qili Jian in the east of the city was built.
On the 12th, Emperor Wu went to Xuanwu Temple and held a large-scale military parade.
In December, a comet appeared in the constellation Zhen.
Set up the official position of Tianling.
Sima Ji, the son of King Taiyuan, was made King of Gaoyang.
Wu Wei's northern generals Yan Cong, Yangwei generals Yan Zheng, and partial generals Zhu Mai came to surrender.
This year, the mountains of southern Shaanxi were excavated, and the river was dug eastward to flow into the Luoshui River for water transportation.
On the first day of the first spring of the first year of Xianning, Emperor Wu implemented a general amnesty and changed the reign name.
In February, because many military officers and soldiers were already married, those with five daughters at home were exempted from military service.
On the day of Xinyou, because Xia Su, the original commander of Ye, had a reputation of being honest, he was given a hundred dendrobiums of grain.
Due to the meager salary, the amount of silk given by ministers and ministers varies from person to person.
The rebel tree could send hostages and ask for surrender.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
夏五月，下邳、广陵大风，拔木，坏庐舍。
六月，鲜卑力微遣子来献。
吴人寇江夏。
西域戊己校尉马循讨叛鲜卑，破之，斩其渠帅。
戊申，置太子詹事官。
秋七月甲申晦，日有蚀之。郡国螟。
八月壬寅，沛王子文薨。
以故太傅郑冲、太尉荀顗、司徒石苞、司空裴秀、骠骑将军王沈、安平献王孚等及太保何曾、司空贾充、太尉陈骞、中书监荀勖、平南将军羊祜、齐王攸等皆列于铭飨。
九月甲子，青州螟，徐州大水。
冬十月乙酉，常山王殷薨。
癸巳，彭城王权薨。
十一月癸亥，大阅于宜武观，至于己巳。
十二月丁亥，追尊宣帝庙曰高祖，景帝曰世宗，文帝曰太祖。
是月大疫，洛阳死者大半。
封裴頠为钜鹿公。
二年春正月，以疾疫废朝。
赐诸散吏至于士卒丝各有差。二月丙戌，河间王洪薨。
甲午，赦五岁刑以下。
东夷八国归化。并州虏犯塞，监并州诸军事胡奋击破之。
初，燉煌太守尹璩卒，州以燉煌令梁澄领太守事。议郎令狐丰废澄，自领郡事。
丰死，弟宏代之。
至是，凉州刺史杨欣斩宏，传首洛阳。
先是，帝不豫，及瘳，群臣上寿。
诏曰： 每念顷遇疫气死亡，为之怆然。
translation: 
In summer and May, strong winds blow in Xiapi and Guangling, uprooting trees and knocking down houses.
In June, Xianbei was weak and sent his son to pay tribute.
The Wu people invaded Jiangxia.
Ma Xun, the commander of Wuji School in the Western Regions, attacked the rebels who fled to Xianbei, defeated the Xianbei army and beheaded their leader.
On the 24th, the official position of Prince Zhan was established.
Autumn July 30th, solar eclipse. There is a borer infestation in the county.
On August 18, Sima Ziwen, King of Pei, died.
The late Taifu Zheng Chong, Taiwei Xun Qiye, Situ Shibao, Sikong Peixiu, Hussar General Wang Shen, Anping Xian Wang Sima Fu, etc., as well as the current Taibao He Zeng, Sikong Jia Chong, Taiwei Chen Qian, Zhongshu Supervisor Xun Xu, Pingnan General Yang Hu, Qi Wang Sima You, etc., all have their names engraved and listed in the imperial temple.
On September 11, a borer attack occurred in Qingzhou and floods occurred in Xuzhou.
On the second day of October in winter, Sima Yin, the king of Changshan, died.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Sima Quan, king of Pengcheng, died.
On November 11th, a large-scale military parade was held at Xuanwu Temple and ended on the 17th.
On the fifth day of the twelfth lunar month, the temple names of Emperor Xuan were called Gaozu, Emperor Jing was called Shizong, and Emperor Wen was called Taizu.
A great plague broke out this month, and more than half of the people in Luoyang died.
Granted Pei Weiye the title of Duke of Julu.
In the first month of spring of the second year, the court meeting was suspended due to the epidemic.
Various gifts were given to various officials and soldiers. On the fifth day of February, Sima Hong, the king of Hejian, died.
On the 13th, prisoners under five years old were pardoned.
The eight countries of Dongyi were naturalized, and the Hulu troops in Bingzhou invaded the frontier fortress. Hu Fen, who supervised the troops in Bingzhou, defeated the Hulu army.
At the beginning, when the governor of Dunhuang, Yin Quan, died, the prefecture ordered Liang Cheng from Dunhuang to also take charge of the governor's affairs. The governor ordered Gufeng to depose Liang Cheng and handle the county affairs himself.
After Linghu Feng died, his younger brother Linghu Hong took over the post.
In February of the second year of Xianning, Yang Xin, the governor of Liangzhou, killed Linghu Hong and his head was reported to the capital.
Previously, Emperor Wu was unwell. After recovering, the ministers congratulated him on his birthday.
Emperor Wu issued an edict saying: Every time I think of the possibility of death in the recent plague epidemic, I feel sad.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
岂以一身之休息，忘百姓之艰邪？
诸上礼者皆绝之。
夏五月，镇西大将军、汝阴王骏讨北胡，斩其渠帅吐敦。
立国子学。
庚午，大雩。
六月癸丑，荐荔支于太庙。
甲戌，有星孛于氐。
自春旱，至于是月始雨。
吴京下督孙楷帅众来降，以为车骑将军，封丹阳侯。
白龙二见于新兴井中。
秋七月，有星孛于大角。
吴临平湖自汉末壅塞，至是自开。
父老相传云： 此湖塞，天下乱；此湖开，天下平。
癸丑，安平王隆薨。
东夷十七国内附。
河南、魏郡暴水，杀百余人，诏给棺。
鲜卑阿罗多等寇边，西域戊己校尉马循讨之，斩首四千余级，获生九千余人，于是来降。
八月庚辰，河东、平阳地震。
translation: 
How can you rest in peace underground and forget the hardships of the people?
Those who give birthday gifts will not be accepted.
In the fifth month of summer, Sima Jun, the general of Zhenxi and king of Ruyin, attacked Beihu and beheaded its leader Tudun.
Established Guozixue.
On the 21st, a rain praying ceremony was held.
On Guichou day in June, lychees were offered as sacrifices to the Ancestral Temple.
On the day of Jiaxu, a comet appeared next to Di star.
There is a drought in spring, and it rains only this month.
Sun Kai, the commander-in-chief of Wu Jing, led his troops to surrender. He was appointed as a general of chariots and cavalry and was given the title of Marquis Danyang.
Two white dragons appear in Xingxing Well.
In autumn and July, a comet appeared next to Arcturus.
Wu Linping Lake had been blocked since the end of the Han Dynasty, but it was now open to water on its own.
Local elders say: If the lake is blocked, the world will be in chaos; if the lake is open, the world will be peaceful.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Sima Long, King of Anping, died.
Seventeen Dongyi kingdoms surrendered to China.
Heavy rains in Henan and Wei counties caused disasters. More than a hundred people drowned, and an edict was issued to provide coffins.
The Xianbei people Aluoduo and others invaded the border areas. Ma Xun, the commander of the Wuji School in the Western Regions, sent troops to attack them. They beheaded more than 4,000 people and captured more than 9,000 people. Aluoduo came to surrender.
On the second day of August, there were earthquakes in Hedong and Pingyang.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
己亥，以太保何曾为太傅，太尉陈骞为大司马，司空贾充为太尉，镇军大将军齐王攸为司空。
有星孛于太微，九月又孛于翼。
丁未，起太仓于城东，常平仓于东西市。
闰月，荆州五郡水，流四千余家。
冬十月，以汝阴王骏为征西大将军，平南将军羊祜为征南大将军。
丁卯，立皇后杨氏，大赦，赐王公以下及于鳏寡各有差。
十一月，白龙二见于梁国。
十二月，征处士安定皇甫谧为太子中庶子，封后父镇军将军杨骏为临晋侯。
是月，以平州刺史傅询、前广平太守孟桓清白有闻，询赐帛二百匹，桓百匹。
三年春正月丙子朔，日有蚀之。立皇子裕为始平王，安平穆王隆弟敦为安平王。
诏曰： 宗室戚属，国之枝叶，欲令奉率德义，为天下式。然处富贵而能慎行者寡，召穆公纠合兄弟而赋《棠棣》之诗，此姬氏所以本枝百世也。
今以卫将军、扶风王亮为宗师，所当施行，皆咨之于宗师也。
庚寅，始平王裕薨。
有星孛于西方。
translation: 
On the 21st, Yi Taibao He Zeng was the Taifu, the Taiwei Chen Qian was the Grand Sima, Sikong Jia Chong was the Taiwei, and the general of the town army, Qi Wang Sima You, was the Sikong.
A comet appeared next to the star Taiwei, and in September it appeared next to the star Wing.
On the 29th, Taicang was built in the east of the city and Changpingcang was built in the east and west cities.
In the leap month, floods occurred in five counties of Jingzhou, destroying more than 4,000 homes.
In the tenth month of winter, Sima Jun, king of Ruyin, was appointed as the general to conquer the west, and Yang Hu, the general of Pingnan, was appointed as the general to conquer the south.
On the 21st, Empress Yang was established and a general amnesty was implemented, with rewards ranging from princes and princes to orphans and widows among the people.
In November, two white dragons appeared in the Liang Kingdom.
In December, Huang Fumi, a civil servant from Anding, was recruited as the crown prince's concubine, and Yang Jun, the father of the queen, was granted the title of Marquis of Linjin.
In this month, Fu Xun, the governor of Pingzhou, and Meng Huan, the former prefect of Guangping, were given 200 pieces of silk to Fu Xun and 100 pieces to Meng Huan because of their clean and honest administration.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the spring of the third year, there was a solar eclipse. Prince Sima Yu was made King of Shiping, and Sima Dun, the younger brother of Sima Long, King Mu of Anping, was named King of Anping.
The edict said: Relatives of the clan are the branches and leaves of the country. They should set an example, uphold morality and justice, and be a model for the world. However, there are few people who are in a wealthy position and behave cautiously. The Western Zhou Dynasty called Duke Mu to gather his brothers to compose the poem "Tang Di". This is the reason why the Ji family's roots are flourishing and will last for generations.
Today, General Wei and King Fufeng Sima Liang are the grand masters who supervise the clan's children. The clan relatives must seek the opinions of the grand master on anything they want to do.
On the 15th, Sima Yu, the king of Shiping, died.
A comet appears in the west.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
使征北大将军卫讠雚讨鲜卑力微。
三月，平虏护军文淑讨叛虏树机能等，破之。
有星孛于胃。
乙未，帝将射雉，虑损麦苗而止。
夏五月戊子，吴将邵凯、夏祥帅众七千余人来降。
六月，益、梁八郡水，杀三百余人，没邸阁别仓。
秋七月，以都督豫州诸军事王浑为都督扬州诸军事。
中山王睦以罪废为丹水侯。
八月癸亥，徙扶风王亮为汝南王，东莞王伷为琅邪王，汝阴王骏为扶风王，琅邪王伦为赵王，渤海王辅为太原王，太原王颙为河间王，北海王陵为任城王，陈王斌为西河王，汝南王柬为南阳王，济南王耽为中山王，河间王威为章武王。
立皇子玮为始平王，允为濮阳王，该为新都王，遐为清河王，钜平侯羊祜为南城侯。
以汝南王亮为镇南大将军。
translation: 
He sent Wei Ni, the general who conquered the North, to attack the weak Xianbei.
In March, Wen Shu, the Pinglu army guard, attacked the rebels, including Shu Jiyou and others, and all the rebels were defeated.
A comet appears next to the Stomach Star.
On the 21st, Emperor Wu was going to hunt pheasants, but he stopped because he was afraid of damaging the wheat seedlings.
On the 15th day of the fifth lunar month, Wu generals Shao Kai and Xia Xiang led more than 7,000 people to surrender.
In June, floods occurred in eight counties in Liangzhou, Yizhou, drowning more than 300 people and submerging some residential warehouses.
In the seventh month of autumn, Wang Hun, the commander-in-chief of the military affairs in Yuzhou, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the military affairs in Yangzhou.
Sima Mu, king of Zhongshan, was deposed as Marquis of Danshui due to his crimes.
On August 21, Sima Liang, the king of Fufeng, was moved to be the king of Runan, Sima Qianyou, the king of Dongguan, was the king of Langya, Sima Jun, the king of Ruyin, was the king of Fufeng, Sima Lun, the king of Langya, was the king of Zhao, and Sima Fu, the king of Bohai, was the king of Taiyuan. , Taiyuan King Sima Yong was the King of Hejian, Beihai King Sima Ling was the Rencheng King, Chen King Sima Bin was the Xihe King, Runan King Sima Jian was the Nanyang King, Jinan King Sima Dan was the Zhongshan King, and Hejian King Sima Wei was the Zhangwu King.
The prince Sima Wei was made the King of Shiping, Sima Yun was the King of Puyang, Sima Gai was the King of Xindu, Sima Ya was the King of Qinghe, and the Marquis of Juping Yang Hu was the Marquis of Nancheng.
Sima Liang, king of Runan, was appointed as the general of Zhennan.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
大风拔树，暴寒且冰，郡国五陨霜，伤谷。
九月戊子，以左将军胡奋为都督江北诸军事。兗、豫、徐、青、荆、益、梁七州大水，伤秋稼，诏振给之。
立齐王子蕤为辽东王，赞为广汉王。
冬十一月丙戌，帝临宣武观大阅，至于壬辰。
十二月，吴将孙慎入江夏、汝南，略千余家而去。
是岁，西北杂虏及鲜卑、匈奴、五溪蛮夷、东夷三国前后十余辈，各帅种人部落内附。
四年春正月庚午朔，日有蚀之。
三月甲申，尚书左仆射卢钦卒。
辛酉，以尚书右仆射山涛为尚书左仆射。
东夷六国来献。夏四月，蚩尤旗见于东井。
六月丁未，阴平、广武地震，甲子又震。
凉州刺史杨欣与虏若罗拔能等战于武威，败绩，死之。
弘训皇后羊氏崩。
秋七月己丑，祔葬景献皇后羊氏于峻平陵。
translation: 
Strong winds uprooted trees and the weather was suddenly cold and icy. There was frost in the five counties, and the seedlings were frozen.
On September 17, with General Hu Fen from the left as the commander-in-chief of the military forces in the north of the Yangtze River, floods occurred in Yan, Henan, Xu, Qing, Jing, Yi, and Liang prefectures, destroying autumn crops, and an edict was issued to provide relief to the victims.
Sima Rui, the son of King Qi, was made King of Liaodong, and Sima Zan was made King of Guanghan.
On November 16th in winter, Emperor Wu went to Xuanwu Temple to hold a large-scale military parade.
Ends on the 22nd. In December, Wu general Sun Shen invaded Jiangxia and Runan, and robbed more than a thousand families.
In this year, more than ten batches of miscellaneous barbarians from the northwest and the Xianbei, Xiongnu, Wuxi barbarians, and Dongyi kingdoms each led their own tribes to the inland.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fourth year of spring, there was a solar eclipse.
On March 15th, Shangshu Zuopu shot Lu Qin to death.
In Xinyou, the right servant of Shangshu Shantao was regarded as the left servant. The six countries of Dongyi paid tribute.
In April of summer, a comet named Chiyouqi appeared in the Dongjing constellation.
On the tenth day of June, there were earthquakes in Yinping and Guangwu, and another earthquake on the 27th.
Liangzhou governor Yang Xin and Hulu Ruoluo Ba Neng waited for a battle in Wuwei, but Yang Xin was defeated and died in the battle.
Queen Hongxun Yangshi died.
On the 22nd day of the seventh month in autumn, Queen Jingxian and the Yang family were buried together in Junping Mausoleum.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
庚寅，高阳王缉薨。
癸巳，范阳王绥薨。
荆、扬郡国二十皆大水。
九月，以大傅何曾为太宰。
辛巳，以尚书令李胤为司徒。
冬十月，以征北大将军卫瓘为尚书令。
扬州刺史应绰伐吴皖城，斩首五千级，焚谷米百八十万斛。
十一月辛巳，太医司马程据献雉头裘，帝以奇技异服典礼所禁，焚之于殿前。
甲申，敕内外敢有犯者罪之。
吴昭武将军刘翻、厉武将军祖始来降。
辛卯，以尚书杜预都督荆州诸军事。
征南大将军羊祜卒。
十二月乙未，西河王斌薨。
丁未，太宰郎陵公何曾薨。
是岁，东夷九国内附。
五年春正月，虏帅树机能攻陷凉州。
乙丑，使讨虏护军武威太守马隆击之。
二月甲午，白麟见于平原。
三月，匈奴都督拔弈虚帅部落归化。
乙亥，以百姓饥馑，减御膳之半。
有星孛于柳。
translation: 
On the 23rd, Sima, the king of Gaoyang, died.
On the 26th, Sima Sui, King of Fanyang, died.
There were floods in twenty counties in Jing and Yang states.
In September, why did the Taifu become the Dazai?
On the 15th, he appointed Li Yin as Situ.
In the tenth month of winter, Wei Niu, the general of the Northern Army, was appointed as the minister's order.
Yingchuo, the governor of Yangzhou, attacked Wuwan City, beheaded 5,000 people, and burned 1.8 million bushels of rice.
On November 16, the imperial physician Sima Cheng presented a pheasant-headed fur. Emperor Wu thought that the strange skills and costumes were prohibited by the laws and etiquette, so he burned the fur in front of the palace.
On the 19th, officials inside and outside the palace were ordered to punish those who dared to commit crimes.
General Wu Zhaowu, Liu Fan, and General Liwu came to surrender.
On the 26th, Yi Shangshu Du Yu commanded the military affairs in Jingzhou.
Yang Hu, the general who conquered the south, died.
On the first day of December, Sima Bin, king of Xihe, died.
On the 13th, Duke Langling, the great strategist, died.
In this year, the nine countries of Dongyi surrendered to the mainland.
In the first month of the spring of the fifth year, the Hulu commander Shuji Neng captured Liangzhou.
On the first day of the lunar month, Ma Long, the prefect of Wuwei, who was guarding the captives, was asked to hit the tree.
On the first day of February, Bailin appeared in the plain.
In March, the Xiongnu governor Ba Yixu led his tribe to submit.
On the twelfth day, due to famine among the people, the palace meals were reduced by half.
A comet appeared next to the willow star.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
夏四月，又孛于女御。
大赦，降除部曲督以下质任。
丁亥，郡国八雨雹，伤秋稼，坏百姓庐舍。
秋七月，有星孛于紫宫。
九月甲午，麟见于河南。
冬十月戊寅，匈奴余渠都督独雍等帅部落归化。
汲郡人不准掘魏襄王冢，得竹简小篆古书十余万言，藏于秘府。
十一月，大举伐吴，遣镇军将军、琅邪王伷出涂中，安东将军王浑出江西，建威将军王戎出武昌，平南将军胡奋出夏口，镇南大将军杜预出江陵，龙骧将军王浚、广武将军唐彬率巴蜀之卒浮江而下，东西凡二十余万。
以太尉贾充为大都督，行冠军将军杨济为副，总统众军。
十二月，马隆击叛虏树机能，大破，斩之，凉州平。肃慎来献楛矢石砮。
太康元年春正月己丑朔，五色气冠日。
癸丑，王浑克吴寻阳赖乡诸城，获吴武威将军周兴。
translation: 
In April of summer, the comet appeared again in Nuyu.
A general amnesty was implemented, and hostages below the governor level were exempted.
On the day of Dinghai, hail fell in eight counties, damaging autumn crops and destroying people's houses.
In autumn and July, a comet appears in the constellation Purple Palace.
On the fourth day of September, Lin appeared in Henan.
On the 19th day of the tenth month in winter, Du Yong, the commander-in-chief of the Xiongnu Yuqu, led his tribe to surrender.
In Ji County, a man whose name was not allowed excavated the tomb of King Xiang of Wei and obtained more than 100,000 bamboo slips written in small seal script, which he hid in a secret mansion.
In November, they launched a large-scale attack on Wu. They sent General Zhenjun and King Yawang of Lang, Sima Qianyou to send troops to Tuzhong, General Andong Wang Hun to Jiangxi, General Jianwei Wang Rong to send troops to Wuchang, General Pingnan Hu Fen to send troops to Xiakou, General Zhennan Du Yu to send troops to Jiangling, General Longxiang Wang Jun and General Guangwu Tang Bin led the Bashu army to float down the river, with a total of more than 200,000 troops from the east and west.
Taiwei Jia Chong was appointed as the chief governor, and General Yang Ji, the champion of the line, was appointed as his deputy, with overall command of the army.
In the twelfth month, Ma Long attacked the traitor Shu Jie Feng, defeated the rebel army, killed Shu Jie Feng, Liangzhou was pacified, and Su Shen came to offer wood, bitter arrows and stone valerians.
On the first day of spring in the first year of Taikang, there were five-colored clouds surrounding the sun.
On the 25th, Wang Hun captured the cities in Laixiang, Wu Xunyang, and captured Wu Wuwei general Zhou Xing.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
二月戊午，王浚、唐棼等克丹阳城。
庚申，又克西陵，杀西陵都督、镇军将军留宪，征南将军成璩，西陵监郑广。
壬戌，浚又克夷道乐乡城，杀夷道监陆晏、水军都督陆景。
甲戌，杜预克江陵，斩吴江陵督王延；平南将军胡奋克江安。
于是诸军并进，乐乡、荆门诸戍相次来降。
乙亥，以浚为都督益、梁二州诸军事，复下诏曰： 浚、彬东下，扫除巴丘，与胡奋、王戎共平夏口、武昌，顺流长鹜，直造秣陵，与奋、戎审量其宜。
杜预当镇静零、桂，怀辑衡阳。
大兵既过，荆州南境固当传檄而定，预当分万人给浚，七千给彬。
夏口既平，奋宜以七千人给浚。
武昌既了，戎当以六千人增彬。
太尉充移屯项，总督诸方。
浚进破夏口、武昌，遂泛舟东下，所至皆平。
王浑、周浚与吴丞相张悌战于版桥，大败之，斩悌及其将孙震、沈莹，传首洛阳。
孙皓穷蹙请降，送玺绶于琅邪王伷。
三月壬申，王浚以舟师至于建鄴之石头，孙皓大惧，面缚舆榇，降于军门。
浚杖节解缚焚榇，送于京都。
收其图籍，得州四，郡四十三，县三百一十三，户五十二万三千，吏三万三千，兵二十三万，男女口二百三十万。
其牧守下皆因吴所置，除其苛政，示之简易，吴人大悦。
translation: 
On the first day of February, Wang Jun, Tang Bin and others captured Danyang City.
On the third day of the lunar month, they captured Xiling again and killed the governor of Xiling, the general of the town army Liu Xian, the general of the southern expedition Cheng Xu, and the supervisor of Xiling Zheng Guang.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Wang Jun captured the Lexiang City of Yi Dao and killed Lu Yan, the eunuch of Yi Dao, and Lu Jing, the commander of the navy.
On the 17th, Du Yu captured Jiangling and killed Wu Yan, the governor of Jiangling. Pingnan general Hu Fen captured Jiang'an.
So all the armies advanced together, and the Wu garrison garrison in Lexiang, Jingmen and other places surrendered one after another.
On the 18th, Wang Jun was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the military forces in Yi and Liang prefectures, and an edict was issued: Wang Jun and Kang Bin went eastward, wiped out the Wu army in Baqiu, and together with Hu Fen and Wang Rong, pacified Xiakou and Wuchang.
Du Yu should pacify the Lingling and Guilin areas and recruit the soldiers and civilians of Hengyang.
After the soldiers passed, the southern part of Jingzhou could be pacified with a single message. Du Yu should allocate 10,000 people to Wang Jun and 7,000 people to Tang Bin.
After Xiakou was pacified, Hu Fenying distributed 7,000 men to Wang Jun.
After Wuchang was pacified, Wang Rongying divided 6,000 men into Tang Bin.
Taiwei Jia Chong moved to Xiang, and the governor had various troops.
Wang Jun conquered Xiakou and Wuchang, and then sailed eastward. Wherever he went, he immediately pacified them.
Wang Hun and Zhou Jun fought with Wu Prime Minister Zhang Ti at Banqiao and defeated the Wu army. Zhang Ti and his generals Sun Zhen and Shen Ying were beheaded, and their heads were sent to Luoyang.
Sun Hao was at the end of his rope and asked for surrender. He gave the seal to King Langya and King Sima Qinyou.
On March 15, Wang Jun led his navy to the Stone City near Jianye, the capital of Wu. Sun Hao was so frightened that he bound his hands, carried the coffin, and surrendered in front of the military gate.
Wang Jun held the emperor's talisman, untied Sun Hao, burned the coffin, and sent it to the capital.
After collecting Wu's books and records, we found that in this battle against Wu, a total of four states, 43 counties, 313 counties, 523,000 households, 32,000 officials, 230,000 soldiers, and a population of 2.3 million men and women were captured.
Officials below the county governor level remained in their original positions. Wu's harsh rule was removed and simple laws and regulations were implemented. The people of Wu were very happy.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
乙酉大赦，改元，大酺五日，恤孤老困穷。
夏四月，河东、高平雨雹，伤秋稼。
遣兼侍中张侧、黄门侍郎硃震分使扬越，尉其初附。
白麟见于顿丘。
三河、魏郡、弘农雨雹，伤宿麦。
五月辛亥，封孙皓为归命侯，拜其太子为中郎，诸子为郎中。吴之旧望，随才擢叙。
孙氏大将战亡之家徙于寿阳，将吏渡江复十年，百姓及百工复二十年。
丙寅，帝临轩大会，引皓升殿，群臣咸称万岁。
丁卯，荐酃渌酒于太庙。
郡国六雹，伤秋稼。
庚午，诏诸士卒年六十以上罢归于家。
庚辰，以王浚为辅国大将军、襄阳侯，杜预当阳侯，王戎安丰侯，唐彬上庸侯，贾充、琅邪王伷以下增封。
于是论功行封，赐公卿以下帛各有差。
六月丁丑，初置翊军校尉官。
封丹水侯睦为高阳王。
translation: 
On Yiyou day, a general amnesty is implemented, the year name is changed, the people are allowed to drink happily for five days, and the orphans, the elderly and the poor are helped.
In April of summer, hail fell in Hedong and Gaoping, damaging autumn crops.
Zhang Xiu, the minister-in-charge, and Zhu Zhen, the minister-general of Huangmen, were dispatched to Yangyue respectively to express condolences to the officials and people who had just returned.
Bai Lin appeared in Dunqiu.
Hail fell in Sanhe, Weijun and Hongnong, damaging winter wheat.
On May 25th, Sun Hao was granted the title of Marquis of Gui Ming. Prince Sun Hao was conferred the title of Zhonglang, and the other disciples were conferred the title of Langzhong. It turned out that the prestigious old ministers of Wu State were appointed according to their talents.
If a general of the Sun family died in battle, his family members would be moved to Shouyang. Those who led the officials across the river would be exempted from corvee for ten years, and the common people and workers would be exempted from corvee for twenty years.
On the day of Bingyin, Emperor Wu held a meeting with his ministers in front of the palace to introduce Sun Hao to the palace. The ministers all shouted long live.
On Ding Mao, he offered Lu wine to the Imperial Ancestral Temple.
Hail fell in the six kingdoms, damaging autumn crops.
On Gengwu, an edict was issued to send soldiers over sixty years old home.
In Gengchen, Wang Jun was appointed as the general of the auxiliary state and the Marquis of Xiangyang, Du Yu was the Marquis of Dangyang, Wang Rong was the Marquis of Anfeng, Tang Bin was the Marquis of Shangyong, and Jia Chong and Lang Wangya Wang Sima Qian increased their fiefdoms from the following.
So when it came to meritorious service, silk was given to officials and ministers alike.
On June 22, the lieutenants of Yi Military Academy began to be appointed.
Sima Mu, Marquis of Danshui, was granted the title of King of Gaoyang.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
甲申，东夷十国归化。
秋七月，虏轲成泥寇西平、浩亹，杀督将以下三百余人。
东夷二十国朝献。
庚寅，以尚书魏舒为尚书右仆射。
八月，车师前部遣子入侍。
己未，封皇弟延祚为乐平王。
白龙三见于永昌。
九月，群臣以天下一统，屡请封禅，帝谦让弗许。
冬十月丁巳，除五女复。
十二月戊辰，广汉王赞薨。
二年春二月，淮南、丹阳地震。
三月丙申，安平王敦薨。
赐王公以下吴生口各有差。
诏选孙皓妓妾五千人入宫。
东夷五国朝献。
夏六月，东夷五国内附。
郡国十六雨雹，大风拔树，坏百姓庐舍。
江夏、泰山水，流居人三百余家。
秋七月，上党又暴风雨雹，伤秋稼。
八月，有星孛于张。
translation: 
On the 29th, the ten countries of Dongyi surrendered.
In the seventh month of autumn, Hulu Kecheng invaded Xiping and Haoqian, killing more than 300 people including the governor.
The twenty-two countries of Dongyi paid tribute.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Shangshu Wei Shu was appointed as the right servant of Shangshu.
In August, the chaplain sent his son to serve in Kyoto.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Sima Yanzuo, the emperor's younger brother, was granted the title of King Leping.
Three white dragons appeared in Yongchang.
In September, the ministers thought that the world was unified and repeatedly requested to hold a ceremony to worship heaven and earth on Mount Tai. Emperor Wu expressed humility and refused to agree.
On the fourth day of the tenth lunar month in winter, the system in which five daughters in a family were exempted from the draft was abolished.
On December 15th, Sima Zan, king of Guanghan, died.
In the spring and February of the second year, there was an earthquake in Huainan and Danyang.
On March 21, Sima Dun, King of Anping, died.
The captured slaves of Wu were rewarded to officials below the prince in varying amounts.
An edict was issued to select 5,000 Sun Hao's concubines and prostitutes to enter the Jin harem.
The five countries of Dongyi paid tribute.
In June of Xia, the five Dongyi countries surrendered to the mainland.
Hail fell in sixteen counties, strong winds uprooted trees, and destroyed people's houses.
Floods occurred in Jiangxia and Taishan, destroying more than 300 homes.
In the seventh month of autumn, there was another storm in Shangdang, which caused hail and damaged the autumn crops.
In August, a comet appeared next to Zhang Xing.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
冬十月，鲜卑慕容廆寇昌黎。
十一月壬寅，大司马陈骞薨。
有星孛于轩辕。
鲜卑寇辽西，平州刺史鲜于婴讨破之。
三年春正月丁丑，罢秦州，并雍州。
甲午，以尚书张华都督幽州诸军事。
三月，安北将军严询败鲜卑慕容廆于昌黎，杀伤数万人。
夏四月庚午，太尉、鲁公贾充薨。
闰月丙子，司徒、广陆侯李胤薨。
癸丑，白龙二见于济南。
秋八月，罢平州、宁州刺史三年一入奏事。
九月，东夷二十九国归化，献其方物。
吴故将莞恭、帛奉举兵反，攻害建鄴令，遂围扬州，徐州刺史嵇喜讨平之。
冬十二月甲申，以司空齐王攸为大司马、督青州诸军事，镇东大将军、琅邪王伷为抚军大将军，汝南王亮为太尉，光禄大夫山涛为司徒，尚书令卫瓘为司空。
丙申，诏四方水旱甚者无出田租。
四年春正月甲申，以尚书右仆射魏舒为尚书左仆射，下邳王晃为尚书右仆射。
戊午，司徒山涛薨。
translation: 
In the tenth month of winter, Murong Xi of Xianbei invaded Changli.
On November 25, Grand Sima Chen Qian died.
A comet appeared next to Xuanyuan Star.
Xianbei invaded western Liaoning and was defeated by Xian Yuying, the governor of Pingzhou.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the third year, Qinzhou was abolished and merged into Yongzhou.
On the 17th, Yi Shangshu Zhang Hua was in charge of the military affairs in Youzhou.
In March, Anbei general Yan Xun defeated Xianbei Murong Zhen in Changli, killing tens of thousands of people.
On the 25th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Taiwei and Lu Gong Jia Chong died.
On the first day of the leap month, Situ and Guanglu Marquis Li Yin died.
Guichou, two white dragons appeared in Jinan.
In the seventh month of autumn, the rule that the governors of Pingzhou and Ningzhou go to Beijing to report once every three years was revoked.
In September, the twenty-nine countries of Dongyi surrendered and presented local products.
Wu's old generals Wan Gong and Bo Feng rebelled, attacked and killed the Jianye order, and then surrounded Yangzhou. Ji Xi, the governor of Xuzhou, attacked and put down the rebellion.
On the 13th day of the twelfth lunar month in winter, Sikong and Qi King Sima You were appointed as the Grand Sima and Commander-in-Chief of all the military forces in Qingzhou. The General of Zhendong and Sima Qianyou, King of Ya of Lang, were appointed as the Generals of the Fu Army.
On the 25th, an order was issued that those affected by serious floods and droughts should not rent out their fields.
In the spring of the fourth year of the first month of Jiashen, Wei Shu, the right servant of Shangshu, was the left servant of Shangshu, and Sima Huang, the king of Xiapi, was the right servant of Shangshu.
On the 18th, Situ Shantao died.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
二月己丑，立长乐亭侯寔为北海王。
三月辛丑朔，日有蚀之。癸丑，大司马齐王攸薨。
夏四月，任城王陵薨。
五月己亥，大将军、琅邪王伷薨。
徙辽东王蕤为东莱王。
六月，增九卿礼秩。
牂柯獠二千余落内属。
秋七月壬子，以尚书右仆射、下邳王晃为都督青州诸军事。
丙寅，衮州大水，复田租。
八月，鄯善国遣子人侍，假其归义侯。
以陇西王泰为尚书右仆射。
冬十一月戊午，新都王该薨。
以尚书左仆射魏舒为司徒。
十二月庚午，大阅于宣武观。
是岁，河南及荆州、扬州大水。
五年春正月己亥，青龙二见于武库井中。
二月丙寅，立南宫王子玷为长乐王。
壬辰，地震。
夏四月，任城、鲁国池水赤如血。
五月丙午，宣帝庙梁折。
六月，初置黄沙狱。
秋七月戊申，皇子恢薨。
任城、梁国、中山雨雹，伤秋稼。
translation: 
On February 19, Sima Shi, the Marquis of Changleting, was appointed King of Beihai.
On the first day of March, there is a solar eclipse. On the 14th, Grand Sima and King Sima You of Qi died.
In April of summer, Sima Ling, the king of Rencheng, died.
On the first day of the fifth lunar month, Sima Qinyou, the general and king of Langya, died.
Sima Rui, the king who moved to Liaodong, became the king of Donglai.
In June, the ceremonial rank of Jiuqing was added.
More than 2,000 villages in Zangkeli belong to the mainland.
On the fourteenth day of the seventh month in autumn, Shangshu Youpushe and Xiapi King Sima Huang were appointed as commanders to oversee the military affairs of Qingzhou.
On the 28th, there was a flood in Yanzhou, so the land rent was exempted.
In August, the king of Shanshan State sent his son to serve in Kyoto and gave him the title of Marquis of Guiyi.
Sima Tai, the king of Longxi, was the right servant of Shangshu.
On November 22nd in winter, Sima, the king of Xindu, died.
Take Shangshu Zuopushe as Situ.
On the fifth day of December, a grand military parade was held at Xuanwu Temple.
This year, there were floods in Hanoi, Jingzhou, and Yangzhou.
On the eighth day of the first lunar month in the fifth year of spring, two green dragons appeared in the arsenal well.
On the second day of February, Sima Tan, the son of King Nangong, was made King of Changle.
On the 28th, there was an earthquake.
In the fourth month of summer, the water in the ponds of Rencheng and Lu became red, like blood.
On May 13th, the beams of Emperor Xuan's temple were broken.
In June, the Huangsha Prison began to be set up.
On the 16th day of the seventh month in autumn, Prince Sima Hui died.
Hail fell in Rencheng, Liangguo, and Zhongshan, damaging autumn crops.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
减天下户课三分之一。
九月，南安大风折木。郡国五大水，陨霜，伤秋稼。
冬十一月甲辰，太原王辅薨。
十二月庚午，大赦。
林邑、大秦国各遣使来献。
闰月，镇南大将军、当阳侯杜预卒。
六年春正月庚申朔，以比岁不登，免租贷宿负。
戊辰，以征南大将军王浑为尚书左仆射，尚书褚契都督扬州诸军事，扬济都督荆州诸军事。
三月，郡国六陨霜，伤桑麦。
夏四月，扶南等十国来献，参离四千余落内附。
郡国四旱，十大水，坏百姓庐舍。
秋七月，巴西地震。
八月丙戌朔，日有蚀之。减百姓绵绢三分之一。白龙见于京兆。
以镇军大将军王浚为抚军大将军。
九月丙子，山阳公刘康薨。
冬十月，南安山崩，水出。南阳郡获两足兽。
龟兹、焉耆国遣子人侍。
十二月甲申，大阅于宣武观，旬日而罢。
庚寅，抚军大将军、襄阳侯王浚卒。
translation: 
Reduce household tax by one-third.
In September, strong winds in Nan'an broke trees, floods and frost occurred in five counties, damaging autumn crops.
On November 14th in winter, Sima Fu, the king of Taiyuan, died.
On the tenth day of December, a general amnesty is held.
Linyi and Daqin sent envoys to pay tribute.
In the leap month, Du Yu, the general of Zhennan and the Marquis of Dangyang, died.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the sixth year of spring, due to successive years of poor harvests, the tax debt owed in previous years was exempted.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Wang Hun, the general who conquered the South, was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe. Shangshu Chu Lei was in charge of the military affairs in Yangzhou, and Yang Ji was in charge of all the military affairs in Jingzhou.
In March, there was frost in six counties, causing frostbite to mulberry trees and wheat seedlings.
In the fourth month of summer, Funan and other ten countries paid tribute, and more than 4,000 villages were separated and returned to the interior.
There was drought in four counties and floods in ten counties, which destroyed people's houses.
In autumn and July, there was an earthquake in Brazil.
On the first day of August, there is a solar eclipse. One-third of the cotton silk for the common people is reduced. The white dragon appears in Jingzhao.
Wang Jun, the general of the Zhenjun army, was appointed as the general of Fuguo.
On September 21st, Liu Kang, Duke of Shanyang, died.
In October of winter, Nan'an Mountain collapsed and water surged underground. A bipedal beast was captured in Nanyang County.
Kucha and Yanqi sent their sons to serve in Kyoto.
On the first day of December, a grand military parade was held at Xuanwu Temple, which ended ten days later.
On the 17th, the general of the Fu army and the Marquis of Xiangyang Wang Jun died.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
七年春正月甲寅朔，日有蚀之。
乙卯，诏曰： 比年灾异屡发，日蚀三朝，地震山崩。
邦之不臧，实在朕躬。
公卿大臣各上封事，极言其故，勿有所讳。
夏五月，郡国十三旱。鲜卑慕容廆寇辽东。
秋七月，硃提山崩，犍为地震。
八月，东夷十一国内附。
京兆地震。
九月戊寅，骠骑将军、扶风王骏薨。
郡国八大水。
冬十一月壬子，以陇西王泰都督关中诸军事。
十二月，遣侍御史巡遭水诸郡。
出后宫才人、妓女以下三百七十人归于家。
始制大臣听终丧三年。己亥，河阴雨赤雪二顷。
是岁，扶南等二十一国、马韩等十一国遣使来献。
八年春正月戊申朔，日有蚀之。
太庙殿陷。三月乙丑，临商观震。夏四月，齐国、天水陨霜，伤麦。
六月，鲁国大风，拔树木，坏百姓庐舍。
郡国八大水。
秋七月，前殿地陷，深数丈，中有破船。
八月，东夷二国内附。
九月，改营太庙。
translation: 
On the first day of the first month of spring in the seventh year, there was a solar eclipse.
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, an edict was issued saying: Disasters have occurred continuously in recent years, including three solar eclipses, earthquakes and landslides.
The country's misfortune lies with me alone.
The ministers should each write a secret memorial, speak freely, find the reasons, and do not avoid any taboos.
In the fifth month of summer, there was a drought in thirteen counties, and Murong Zhen of Xianbei invaded Liaodong.
In the seventh month of autumn, there was a landslide in Zhuti and an earthquake in Jianwei.
In August, the eleven Dongyi countries surrendered to the mainland.
Beijing Zhao earthquake.
On September 29, General Hussar and King Fufeng Sima Jun died.
Floods occurred in eight counties.
On the fourth day of the eleventh month in winter, Sima Tai, the king of Longxi, took charge of the military affairs in Guanzhong.
In December, the imperial censor was dispatched to inspect the flood-hit counties.
Released 270 people including harem talents and prostitutes home.
A system whereby ministers could stay in mourning for three years was implemented. On the 21st, a patch of red snow as big as two hectares of land fell in Heyin.
This year, 21 countries including Funan and 11 countries including Mahan sent envoys to pay tribute.
In the eighth year of spring, on the first day of the first lunar month, there was a solar eclipse. The Imperial Ancestral Temple collapsed.
On March 19, Linshangguan was shocked. In the fourth month of summer, there was frost in the state of Qi and the water in the sky damaged the wheat seedlings.
In the sixth month, strong winds blew in the State of Lu, uprooting trees and destroying people's houses.
Floods occurred in eight counties.
In the seventh month of autumn, the front hall sank, several feet deep, and there were broken ships inside.
In August, the two countries of Dongyi surrendered to the mainland.
In September, the Ancestral Temple was renovated.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
冬十月，南康平固县吏李丰反，聚众攻郡县，自号将军。
十一月，海安令萧辅聚众反。
十二月，吴兴人蒋迪聚党反，围阳羡县，州郡捕讨，皆伏诛。
南夷扶南、西域康居国各遣使来献。
是岁，郡国五地震。
九年春正月壬申朔，日有蚀之。
诏曰： 兴化之本，由政平讼理也。
二千石长吏不能勤恤人隐，而轻挟私故，兴长刑狱，又多贪浊，烦挠百姓。
其敕刺史二千石纠其秽浊，举其公清，有司议其黜陟。令内外群官举清能，拔寒素。
江东四郡地震。
二月，尚书右仆射、阳夏侯胡奋卒，以尚书硃整为尚书右仆射。
三月丁丑，皇后亲桑于西郊，赐帛各有差。
壬辰，初并二社为一。
translation: 
In the tenth month of winter, Li Feng, a county official in Pinggu County, Nankang, rebelled. He gathered a crowd to attack the county and claimed to be a general.
In November, Xiao Fu, the magistrate of Hai'an County, gathered a crowd to rebel.
In December, Jiang Di, a native of Wuxing, gathered his followers to rebel and besieged Yangxian County. The prefectures and counties sent troops to attack and pursue him, but they were all executed.
The Southern Yi Funan and the Western Region Kangju Kingdom sent envoys to pay tribute.
This year, earthquakes occurred in five counties.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the ninth year of spring, there was a solar eclipse.
The edict stated: The foundation for revitalizing education lies in fair political affairs and appropriate handling of lawsuits and prisons.
The two thousand chief officials could not be diligent in investigating and relieving the sufferings of the people, but they were willing to do public good for personal gain, causing many prisons and many greedy and dirty things to annoy the people.
Now the governor, Er Qian Shi, is ordered to inspect those who are filthy and filthy, to recommend those who are honest and just, and to report to the competent officials to decide on their promotion, promotion, rewards and punishments, and to order the internal and external officials to recommend and promote those who are of humble origins but are honest and capable.
Earthquake in four counties of Jiangdong.
In February, Shangshu Youpushe and Yangxiahou Hu Fen died. Take Shangshu Zhu Zheng as the right servant of Shangshu.
On the seventh day of March, the queen personally went to the western suburbs to collect mulberry and raise silkworms, and gave various gifts to her concubines and concubines.
On the 22nd, the two societies were merged into one for the first time.


Chunk 37: 
original: 
夏四月，江南郡国八地震；陇西陨霜，伤宿麦。
五月，义阳王奇有罪，黜为三纵亭侯。
诏内外群官举守令之才。
六月庚子朔，日有蚀之。
徙章武王威为义阳王。
郡国三十二大旱，伤麦。
秋八月壬子，星陨如雨。
诏郡国五岁刑以下决遣，无留庶狱。
九月，东夷七国诣校尉内附。
郡国二十四螟。
冬十二月癸卯，立河间平王洪子英为章武王。
戊申，青龙、黄龙各一见于鲁国。
十年夏四月，以京兆太守刘霄、阳平太守梁柳有政绩，各赐谷千斛。
郡国八陨霜。
太庙成。
乙巳，迁神主于新庙，帝迎于道左，遂祫祭。
大赦，文武增位一等，作庙者二等。
translation: 
In April of summer, earthquakes occurred in eight counties in the south of the Yangtze River; frost fell in Longxi, damaging winter wheat.
In May, King Sima Qi of Yiyang was found guilty and demoted to the rank of Marquis of Sanzongting.
An edict was issued to allow internal and external officials to recommend talents who could serve as prefects and county magistrates.
On the first day of June, there is a solar eclipse.
Sima Wei, King of Zhangwu, was granted the title of King of Yiyang.
Thirty-two counties suffered from severe drought, damaging wheat.
On the fourteenth day of August in autumn, stars fell to the ground like rain.
An order was issued to all counties and counties to send criminals under five years old home without leaving any ordinary prisoners.
In September, the seven Dongyi kingdoms came to Xiaowei and expressed their submission to the mainland.
Borer infestations occurred in twenty-four counties.
On the seventh day of the twelfth lunar month in winter, Sima Ying, the son of Sima Hong, the king of Hejian Ping, became the king of Zhangwu.
On the eleventh day, a green dragon and a yellow dragon each appeared in the state of Lu.
In the summer and April of the tenth year, because of their political achievements, Liu Xiao, the prefect of Jingzhao, and Liang Liu, the prefect of Yangping, were each given a thousand dendrobiums of grain.
There was frost in eight counties.
The Ancestral Temple was completed.
On the eleventh day, the god moved to the new temple. Emperor Wu stood on the left side of the road to greet him, and held a joint sacrifice to ancestors from far and near in the new temple.
During the amnesty, the minister of civil and military affairs was increased to the first rank, and the minister responsible for building temples was increased to the second rank.


Chunk 38: 
original: 
丁未，尚书右仆射、广兴侯硃整卒。
癸丑，崇圣殿灾。
五月，鲜卑慕容廆来降，东夷十一国内附。
六月庚子，山阳公刘瑾薨。
复置二社。
冬十月壬子，徙南宫王承为武邑王。
十一月丙辰，守尚书令、左光禄大夫荀勖卒。
帝疾瘳，赐王公以下帛有差。
含章殿鞠室火。
甲申，以汝南王亮为大司马、大都督、假黄钺。
改封南阳王柬为秦王，始平王玮为楚王，濮阳王允为淮南王，并假节之国，各统方州军事。
立皇子乂为长沙王，颍为成都王，晏为吴王，炽为豫章王，演为代王，皇孙遹为广陵王。
立濮阳王子迪为汉王，始平王子仪为毗陵王，汝南王次子羕为西阳公。
徙扶风王暢为顺阳王，暢弟歆为新野公，琅邪王觐弟澹为东武公，繇为东安公，漼为广陵公，卷为东莞公。
改诸王国相为内史。
translation: 
On the 13th, Shangshu Youpu She and Guangxing Hou Zhu Zheng died.
On the 19th, a fire broke out in Chongxian Hall.
In May, Murong Xi of Xianbei surrendered, and the eleven Dongyi kingdoms surrendered to the mainland.
On the seventh day of the sixth lunar month, Duke Liu Jin of Shanyang died.
Restore the second club.
On the 21st of October in winter, Sima Cheng, the king of Nangong, was transferred to the title of king of Wuyi.
On Bingchen in the eleventh month, Xun Xu, the official of Shangshu Ling and Zuo Guanglu, died.
Emperor Wu recovered from his illness and gave the prince and prince various silks.
The place where Hanzhangdian played football caught fire.
On the 23rd, Sima Liang, king of Runan, was appointed as the Grand Sima, Grand Governor, and Fake Huangyue.
Sima Jian, the king of Nanyang, was renamed the king of Qin, Sima Wei, the king of Shiping, was the king of Chu, and Sima Yun, the king of Puyang, was the king of Huainan.
The prince Sima Yu was made the king of Changsha, Sima Ying was the king of Chengdu, Sima Yan was the king of Wu, Sima Chi was the king of Yuzhang, Sima Yan was the acting king, and the emperor's grandson Sima Wei was the king of Guangling.
He established Sima Di, Prince of Puyang, as King of Han, Sima Yi, King of Shiping, as King of Piling, and Sima Yi, the second son of King Runan, as Duke of Xiyang.
Sima Chang, King of Fufeng, was renamed King of Shunyang, Sima Xin, the brother of Sima Chang, was named Xinye Duke, Sima Dan, the younger brother of Sima Jin, King of Langya, was named Dongwu Duke, Sima Yao was named Dong'an Duke, Sima Hucui was named Guangling Duke, and Sima Juan was named Dongguan Duke.
Change the state affairs of the kingdoms to internal history.


Chunk 39: 
original: 
十二月庚寅，太庙梁折。
是岁，东夷绝远三十余国、西南夷二十余国来献。
壬戌，虏奚轲男女十万口来降。
太熙元年春正月辛酉朔，改元。
乙巳，以尚书左仆射王浑为司徒，司空卫瓘为太保。
二月辛丑，东夷七国朝贡。
琅邪王觐薨。
三月甲子，以右光禄大夫石鉴为司空。
夏四月辛丑，以侍中车骑将军杨骏为太尉、都督中外诸军、录尚书事。
己酉，帝崩于含章殿，时年五十五，葬峻阳陵，庙号世祖。
帝乃追述允夙望，称奇之才，擢为祠部郎，时论称其夷旷。
translation: 
In the twelfth month of the lunar month, the beams of the Imperial Ancestral Temple were broken.
This year, more than thirty countries from the farthest east Yi and more than twenty countries from southwestern Yi paid tribute.
One hundred thousand men and women of Hulu Xi Ke came to surrender.
On the first day of spring in the first year of Taixi, the year name was changed.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Shangshu Zuopu shot Wang Hun as Situ and Sikong Weiniu as Taibao.
On February 12, the seven Dongyi countries paid tribute.
King Langya and King Sima Jin died.
On the fifth day of March, Shi Jian, the doctor of Youguanglu, was appointed as Sikong.
On the 12th day of April in the summer, Yang Jun, the chariot and cavalry general in the service, was appointed as the Taiwei, the commander-in-chief of the Chinese and foreign armies, and the ministerial affairs were recorded.
On the 20th, Emperor Wu died in Hanzhang Hall at the age of fifty-five. He was buried in Junyang Mausoleum, with the temple name Shizu.
Emperor Wu was broad-minded and loyal, his actions must be benevolent and tolerant, he could tolerate outspokenness, he had a solemn attitude toward others, he was consistent in appearance and inwardly, he was wise and good at planning, and he could resolve major issues, so he could stabilize all nations and bring tranquility to all directions.


Chunk 40: 
original: 
平吴之后，天下乂安，遂怠于政术，耽于游宴，宠爱后党，亲贵当权，旧臣不得专任，彝章紊废，请谒行矣。
爰至未年，知惠帝弗克负荷，然恃皇孙聪睿，故无废立之心。
复虑非贾后所生，终致危败，遂与腹心共图后事。说者纷然，久而不定，竟用王佑之谋，遣太子母弟秦王柬都督关中，楚王玮、淮南王允并镇守要害，以强帝室。
又恐杨氏之逼，复以佑为北军中候，以典禁兵。
既而寝疾弥留，至于大渐，佐命元勋，皆已先没，群臣惶惑，计无所从。会帝小差，有诏以汝南王亮辅政，又欲令朝士之有名望年少者数人佐之，杨骏秘而不宣。
帝复寻至迷乱，杨后辄为诏以骏辅政，促亮进发。
帝寻小间，问汝南王来未，意欲见之，有所付托。左右答言未至，帝遂困笃。中朝之乱，实始于斯矣。
制曰：武皇承基，诞膺天命，握图御宇，敷化导民，以佚代劳。以治易乱。
translation: 
After the extravagant and harsh government in the late Wei Dynasty, the people longed for the simplicity of ancient times, so they encouraged respect and simplicity, and urged honesty and lack of desire. A minister once reported that the green silk rope used to guard the cattle was broken, and he issued an edict to replace it with green hemp. He was to be lenient and graceful in his dealings with the court, and his laws were consistent. After the Ping Wu Dynasty, the world was stable, so he neglected political affairs, indulged in banquets, doted on the queen's family, relatives and nobles were in power, old ministers were not allowed to hold full-time posts, and the laws and regulations were disordered or abandoned. Please ask for bribes.
In his later years, he knew clearly that Emperor Hui could not shoulder the important responsibilities of the country, but relied on the wisdom of the emperor and his grandson and did not make up his mind to depose the prince.
He was also worried that the emperor's grandson was not born to Empress Jia and would eventually be in danger, so he plotted with his confidants about the future affairs. The planners came out one after another, and the decision was still pending for a long time. Finally, using Wang You's plan, he sent the prince's brother Qin Wang Sima Cambodia to supervise Guanzhong. Chu Wang Sima Wei and Huainan Wang Sima Yun guarded the key points to strengthen the imperial family.
Fearing the threat of the Yang family in the rear party, Wang You was appointed as the Marquis of the Northern Army to lead the imperial army.
Later, the illness worsened, and all the founding fathers of the country died. The ministers were panicked, doubtful, and at a loss. After Emperor Wu recovered from his illness, he issued an edict to let Sima Liang, king of Runan, assist in the government. He also wanted to ask several young and famous courtiers to assist him, so Yang Jun hid the edict secretly and did not publish it.
Emperor Wu soon fell into a coma again, and Empress Yang actually issued an edict to make Sima Jun assist the government and urge Sima Liang to advance.
Emperor Wu's illness improved slightly and he asked King Runan if he had come. He wanted to meet with King Runan and entrust him with something, but when no reply came, Emperor Wu changed the story. The chaos in the late Western Jin Dynasty actually started at this time.
Zhi said: Emperor Wu inherited the great cause, in fact, he complied with the destiny, controlled the world, universally educated the people, replaced labor with ease, and replaced chaos with rule.


Chunk 41: 
original: 
绝缣綸之贡，去雕琢之饰，制奢俗以变俭约，止浇风而反淳朴。
雅好直言，留心采擢，刘毅、裴楷以质直见容，嵇绍、许奇虽仇雠不弃。
仁以御物，宽而得众，宏略大度，有帝王之量焉。
于是民和俗静，家给人足，聿修武用，思启封疆。
决神算于深衷，断雄图于议表。马隆西伐，王浚南征，师不延时，獯虏削迹，兵无血刃，扬越为墟。
通上代之不通，服前王之未服。
祯祥显应，风教肃清，天人之功成矣，霸王之业大矣。
虽登封之礼，让而不为，骄泰之心，因斯而起。
见土地之广，谓万叶而无虞；睹天下之安，谓千年而永治。
不知处广以思狭，则广可长广；居治而忘危，则治无常治。
加之建立非所，委寄失才，志欲就于升平，行先迎于祸乱。
translation: 
No longer allow the four parties to pay tribute with fine silk fabrics, strive to get rid of carved decorations, suppress the trend of luxury and turn to frugality, stop frivolity and superficiality and return to simplicity.
They like to be outspoken and reverent, and carefully select talents. Plastic tunnel and tomb bumper are trusted because of their simplicity and integrity. Although haze crocodile and injection boy are enemies, they are not abandoned.
Rule the world with benevolence and righteousness, win the hearts of the people because of tolerance, be majestic and generous, and have the grace of an emperor.
At that time, the people were harmonious, their customs were peaceful, and their families were prosperous. Then they managed the army, practiced martial arts, and planned to expand the territory.
God's clever calculations and grand plans. Ma Long's expedition to the west and Wang Jun's expedition to the south did not delay the opportunity. The bandits disappeared, the blades were not stained with blood, and Yang Yue was reduced to ruins.
Communicate in places that were inaccessible in previous generations, and conquer countries that were not subject to previous kings.
The auspiciousness has been fulfilled, the customs and education have been cleared up, the deeds of heaven and man have been accomplished, and the overlord's deeds have been established.
Although he resigned and did not perform the ritual of climbing Mount Tai to offer sacrifices to heaven and earth, his arrogance and indulgence were born from this.
Seeing the vastness of the land, I thought that there would be no trouble for all generations; seeing the stability of the world, I thought that it would last for thousands of years and there would be eternal rule.
If you don't know how to be in a vast land and think about the tight situation, you can maintain long-term vastness; if you forget the critical moments when the world is in great rule, you will lose long-term stability.
In addition, the appointment of officials was not done in the right place, and the people entrusted with important tasks were improperly appointed. In order to achieve Shenghu, the operation first ushered in disaster.


Chunk 42: 
original: 
是犹将适越者指沙漠以遵途，欲登山者涉舟航而觅路，所趣逾远，所尚转难，南北倍殊，高下相反，求其至也，不亦难乎！
况以新集易动之基，而无久安难拔之虑，故贾充凶竖，怀奸志以拥权；杨骏豺狼，苞祸心以专辅。
及乎宫车晚出，谅闇未周，籓翰变亲以成疏，连兵竞灭其本；栋梁回忠而起伪，拥众各举其威。
曾未数年，网纪大乱，海内版荡，宗庙播迁。
帝道王猷，反居文身之俗；神州赤县，翻成被发之乡。
弃所大以资人，掩其小而自托，为天下笑，其故何哉？
良由失慎于前，所以贻患于后。
且知子者贤父，知臣者明君；子不肖则家亡，臣不忠则国乱；国乱不可以安也，家亡不可以全也。
translation: 
This is like heading towards the desert when you want to go far away, or wading through rivers and boats to find the way when you want to climb a mountain. The farther the road you go, the harder it is to achieve the goal you are pursuing. The north and south are different, and the high and low are opposite. It is too difficult to reach the end!
What's more, relying on the foundation that has just been gathered and is easy to shake, without the consideration of long-term peace and stability, the vicious villains buy fakes and have treacherous plots to gain real power; Yang Jun, who is as ruthless as a wolf, hides evil intentions and arbitrarily assists the government.
When the emperor died and the mourning period was not over, the vassal states turned into relatives and alienated each other, and joined forces to compete to eliminate the imperial court; important ministers changed their loyalty to hypocrisy, and gathered scholars to build their own power.
Within a few years, the imperial court was in chaos, the country was in turmoil, and the ancestral temples were relocated and displaced.
The way of the emperor gave way to the custom of tattooing; Chixian County of China became a distant hometown.
Why do you abandon your own advantages to support other people, cover up your own weaknesses to comfort yourself, and be ridiculed by everyone in the world?
In fact, because of the lack of caution in the front, the disaster is left behind.
Besides, a virtuous father is a man who understands his son, and a wise king is a man who understands his ministers. If the son is unfaithful, the family will be destroyed, and if the minister is unfaithful, the country will be in chaos. If the country is in chaos, it will be difficult to restore peace, and if the family is destroyed, it will never be restored.


Chunk 43: 
original: 
是以君子防其始，圣人闲其端。
而世祖惑荀勖之奸谋，迷王浑之伪策，心屡移于众口，事不定于己图。
元海当除而不除，卒令扰乱区夏；惠帝可废而不废，终使倾覆洪基。
夫全一人者德之轻，拯天下者功之重，弃一子者忍之小，安社稷者孝之大；况乎资三世而成业，延二孽以丧之，所谓取轻德而舍重功，畏小忍而忘大孝。
圣贤之道，岂若斯乎！
虽则善始于初，而乖令终于末，所以殷勤史策，不能无慷慨焉。
translation: 
Therefore, a gentleman is on guard against the beginning of disaster, and a sage is aware of the beginning of chaos.
However, Shizu was confused by Xun Xu's treacherous plot and Wang Hun's hypocritical strategy. His thoughts were repeated under the discussion of everyone, and affairs were not decided by his own plan.
Yuan Hai should be eliminated but not eliminated, which ultimately allowed him to disrupt the Central Plains; Emperor Hui should be abolished but not abolished, which ultimately led to the overthrow of the great cause.
Being able to save one person is a small virtue, saving the world is a great merit, abandoning one is a small forbearance, and stabilizing the country is a great filial piety; not to mention that a great achievement can be achieved by relying on three lives, but losing it by continuing two evils. This is what is said to seek light virtue and abandon great achievements, and to fear small forbearance and forget great filial piety.
Is this the way of sages?
Although it has a good beginning, it deviates from the perfect ending. Paying attention to history cannot help but be filled with emotion.


