Summary line 0
Span: 0-37 (score=0.5860)

original:
周舍徐勉周舍，字升逸，汝南安城人，晋左光禄大夫抃之八世孙也。父颙，齐中书侍郎，有名于时。
舍幼聪颍，颙异之，临卒谓曰： 汝不患不富贵，但当持之以道德。
既长，博学多通，尤精义理，善诵书，背文讽说，音韵清辩。
起家齐太学博士，迁后军行参军。
建武中，魏人吴包南归，有儒学，尚书仆射江祏招包讲。舍造坐，累折包，辞理遒逸，由是名为口辩。
王亮为丹阳尹，闻而悦之，辟为主簿，政事多委焉。
迁太常丞。
梁台建，为奉常丞。
高祖即位，博求异能之士。吏部尚书范云与颙素善，重舍才器，言之于高祖，召拜尚书祠部郎。
时天下草创，礼仪损益，多自舍出。
寻为后军记室参军、秣陵令。
入为中书通事舍人，累迁太子洗马，散骑常侍，中书侍郎，鸿胪卿。
时王亮得罪归家，故人莫有至者，舍独敦恩旧，及卒，身营殡葬，时人称之。
迁尚书吏部郎，太子右卫率，右卫将军，虽居职屡徙，而常留省内，罕得休下。国史诏诰，仪体法律，军旅谋谟，皆兼掌之。
日夜侍上，预机密，二十余年未尝离左右。
舍素辩给，与人泛论谈谑，终日不绝口，而竟无一言漏泄机事，众尤叹服之。
性俭素，衣服器用，居处床席，如布衣之贫者。
每入官府，虽广厦华堂，闺阁重邃，舍居之则尘埃满积。
以荻为鄣，坏亦不营。
为右卫，母忧去职，起为明威将军、右骁骑将军。
服阕，除侍中，领步兵校尉，未拜，仍迁员外散骑常侍、太子左卫率。
顷之，加散骑常侍、本州大中正，迁太子詹事。
普通五年，南津获武陵太守白涡书，许遗舍面钱百万，津司以闻。
虽书自外入，犹为有司所奏，舍坐免。
迁右骁骑将军，知太子詹事。
以其年卒，时年五十六。
上临哭，哀恸左右。
诏曰： 太子詹事、豫州大中正舍，奄至殒丧，恻怆于怀。
其学思坚明，志行开敏，劬劳机要，多历岁年，才用未穷，弥可嗟恸。
宜隆追远，以旌善人。
可赠侍中、护军将军，鼓吹一部，给东园秘器，朝服一具，衣一袭，丧事随由资给。
谥曰简子。
明年，又诏曰： 故侍中、护军将军简子舍，义该玄儒，博穷文史，奉亲能孝，事君尽忠，历掌机密，清贞自居。
食不重味，身靡兼衣。
终亡之日，内无妻妾，外无田宅，两儿单贫，有过古烈。
往者，南司白涡之劾，恐外议谓朕有私，致此黜免，追愧若人一介之善。
外可量加褒异，以旌善人。
二子：弘义，弘信。

translation:
Zhou She, whose courtesy name was Shengyi, was born in Runan'an. He was the eighth grandson of Zhou Chan, a doctor named Zuo Guanglu of the Jin Dynasty. His father, Zhou Yi, served as the Vice Minister of Zhongshu in the Qi Dynasty and was famous at that time.
Zhou She was smart when he was young. Zhou Yi thought he was very strange. Before he died, he said to him: "You don't have to worry about not being rich, you just should uphold morality."
When he grew up, he was erudite and proficient in doctrine. He was good at reading books aloud, reciting articles and making arguments, with a clear tone and eloquence.
He became an official and became a doctor of Taixue in the Qi Dynasty. He was transferred to the rear army and joined the army.
During the Jianwu period, Wu Bao, a native of Wei State, returned to the south and had Confucianism. Shangshu Pushe Jiang Zhe recruited Wu Bao to teach. Zhou She visited and sat down. He was impressed by Wu Bao many times. He was strong and elegant in arts and science, so he was known as eloquent.
Wang Liang served as Danyang Yin. After hearing about it, he liked him and made him the chief administrator. He entrusted many political affairs to him.
Transferred to Taichang Cheng.
In the Liang Dynasty, Tai Pavilion was established and he served as Feng Changcheng.
After Emperor Gaozu came to the throne, he extensively sought out people with special talents. Fan Yun, the Minister of Civil Affairs, and Zhou Yi had always been friendly. They valued Zhou She's talent and reported it to Emperor Gaozu, recruiting Zhou Chuang and appointing him as Shangshu Temple Minister.
At that time, the country was founded, and most of the additions and subtractions of etiquette came from Zhou She.
Soon he served as a member of the Hou Army Records Office and the Moling Order.
He entered the court as Zhongshu Tongshiren, and was promoted many times to the crown prince Xi Ma, Sanqi Changshi, Zhongshu Shilang, and Hongshanqing.
At that time, Wang Liang returned home after committing a crime and no friends came to see him. Zhou She valued the old favor alone. When Wang Liang died, he personally arranged the funeral and burial for him. People at that time praised him.
He was transferred to Shangshu Libu Lang, Prince Right Guard, and Right Guard General. Although his positions were changed many times, he often stayed in the official office and rarely went home for rest. He was in charge of national history, Shaogao, etiquette, law, and military strategy.
He served the emperor at night, participated in confidential affairs, and never left his side for more than twenty years.
Zhou She has always been eloquent, talking and joking with others all day long, but he never leaked secrets in a single word. Everyone admired and admired him.
His character is frugal and simple, and his clothes, utensils, and beds are just like those of the poor among the common people.
Every time I enter the palace, even if it is a tall and gorgeous building with layers of inner rooms, the houses are full of dust after living there.
Use Ogweed as a cover and don't dispose of it if it breaks.
He served as right guard and resigned due to the death of his mother. He came back as General Mingwei and General You Xiaoqi.
After the mourning period expired, he was appointed as a sergeant and an infantry captain. However, he did not take up the post. He was also transferred to the rank of standing servant and the prince's left guard.
Soon after, he was awarded the title of Regular Attendant of Sanqi and Dazhongzheng of the state, and was transferred to Prince Zhan Shi.
In ordinary seven years, Nanjin intercepted a letter from Bai Guo, the prefect of Wuling, promising to give Zhou She one million noodles, and the officer in charge of the ferry reported it.
Although the letter was delivered from outside, Zhou She was still cited by the relevant officials, and Zhou She was convicted and exempted from office.
He was transferred to General You Xiaoqi to take charge of Prince Zhan's affairs.
He died in this year at the age of fifty-six.
The emperor went to express his condolences, and was moved by sadness.
The edict said: Prince Zhan Shi, the Dazhongzheng of Yuzhou, passed away suddenly, and he was sad in his heart.
He has solid knowledge and clear thinking, broad ambition and quick actions. He works hard for confidential affairs. After many years of experience, his talents have not been exhausted. He is very sad and sad.
The etiquette of remembrance should be respected to honor good people.
You can give posthumous gifts to the attendants and generals who protect the army, a piece of propaganda, a coffin, a set of official uniforms, and a set of clothes. The funeral can be provided according to the situation.
Mi was named King Jian.
The following year, another edict was issued saying: The late Wang Zhoujie, who was a servant and general in charge of the army, was well versed in Confucianism and Taoism. He was broad and comprehensive in literature and history. He could serve his relatives with filial piety and his monarch with loyalty. He had been in charge of secrets for many years and required himself to be honest and loyal.
There is no unnecessary taste in food and there are no unnecessary clothes on the body.
When he died, he had no wives or concubines at home, no land or house outside, and his two sons were lonely and poor, surpassing ancient celebrities.
In the past, regarding the impeachment of Bai Guo by Nansi, I was afraid that outsiders would talk about my selfishness, and even issued an edict to depose and remove me from office, in order to recall my good deeds that were unworthy of the upright Japanese people.
The foreign government can use praise as appropriate to commend good people.
Zhou She had two sons: Hongyi and Hongxin.

summary:
Zhou She, courtesy name Shengyi, was from Runan'an and a descendant of Jin official Zhou Chan. His father Zhou Yi served as Vice Minister of Zhongshu in the Qi Dynasty. Zhou She was intelligent from youth, and his father advised him to uphold morality rather than worry about wealth. He grew up erudite, eloquent, and skilled in recitation and debate. He began his official career as a Doctor of Taixue in the Qi Dynasty and later held various posts. During the Jianwu period, he impressed Confucian scholar Wu Bao with his knowledge, gaining a reputation for eloquence. Wang Liang appointed him chief administrator, entrusting him with political affairs. In the Liang Dynasty, Fan Yun recommended him to Emperor Gaozu, who appointed him Shangshu Temple Minister. Zhou She contributed to the establishment of state rituals and held numerous positions, including Zhongshu Shilang and Hongshanqing. He remained loyal to Wang Liang even after Wang Liang's disgrace, personally arranging his funeral. Despite frequent role changes, he rarely rested, overseeing national history, rituals, laws, and military strategy. He served the emperor in confidential matters for over twenty years, never leaking secrets. He lived frugally, with simple clothing and dusty homes. After his mother's death, he resigned but later returned to service. In the seventh year of the Putong era, he was implicated in a letter from Wuling Prefect Bai Guo offering him a bribe and was dismissed. He died that year at age fifty-six. The emperor mourned him, granting posthumous honors and praising his integrity, knowledge, and loyalty. Zhou She left two sons, Hongyi and Hongxin.

================================================================================

Summary line 1
Span: 36-91 (score=0.5642)

original:
外可量加褒异，以旌善人。
二子：弘义，弘信。
徐勉，字修仁，东海郯人也。
祖长宗，宋高祖霸府行参军。
父融，南昌相。
勉幼孤贫，早励清节。
年六岁，时属霖雨，家人祈霁，率尔为文，见称耆宿。
及长，笃志好学。
起家国子生。
太尉文宪公王俭时为祭酒，每称勉有宰辅之量。
射策举高第，补西阳王国侍郎。
寻迁太学博士，镇军参军，尚书殿中郎，以公事免。
又除中兵郎、领军长史。
琅邪王元长才名甚盛，尝欲与勉相识，每托人召之。
勉谓人曰： 王郎名高望促，难可轻醿衣裾。
俄而元长及祸，时人莫不服其机鉴。
初与长沙宣武王游，高祖深器赏之。
及义兵至京邑，勉于新林谒见，高祖甚加恩礼，使管书记。
高祖践阼，拜中书侍郎，迁建威将军、后军谘议参军、本邑中正、尚书左丞。
自掌枢宪，多所纠举，时论以为称职。
天监二年，除给事黄门侍郎、尚书吏部郎，参掌大选。
迁侍中。
时王师北伐，候驿填委。
勉参掌军书，劬劳夙夜，动经数旬，乃一还宅。
每还，群犬惊吠。
勉叹曰： 吾忧国忘家，乃至于此。
若吾亡后，亦是传中一事。
六年，除给事中、五兵尚书，迁吏部尚书。
勉居选官，彝伦有序，既闲尺牍，兼善辞令，虽文案填积，坐客充满，应对如流，手不停笔。
又该综百氏，皆为避讳。
常与门入夜集，客有虞皓求詹事五官，勉正色答云： 今夕止可谈风月，不宜及公事。
故时人咸服其无私。
除散骑常侍，领游击将军，未拜，改领太子右卫率。
迁左卫将军，领太子中庶子，侍东宫。
昭明太子尚幼，敕知宫事。
太子礼之甚重，每事询谋。
尝于殿内讲《孝经》，临川靖惠王、尚书令沈约备二傅，勉与国子祭酒张充为执经，王莹、张稷、柳憕、王暕为侍讲。
时选极亲贤，妙尽时誉，勉陈让数四。
又与沈约书，求换侍讲，诏不许，然后就焉。
转太子詹事，领云骑将军，寻加散骑常侍，迁尚书右仆射，詹事如故。
又改授侍中，频表解宫职，优诏不许。
时人间丧事，多不遵礼，朝终夕殡，相尚以速。
勉上疏曰： 《礼记问丧》云： 三日而后敛者，以俟其生也。三日而不生，亦不生矣。
自顷以来，不遵斯制。
送终之礼，殡以期日，润屋豪家，乃或半晷，衣衾棺椁，以速为荣，亲戚徒隶，各念休反。
故属纩才毕，灰钉已具，忘狐鼠之顾步，愧燕雀之徊翔。
伤情灭理，莫此为大。
且人子承衾之时，志懑心绝，丧事所资，悉关他手，爱憎深浅，事实难原。
如觇视或爽，存没违滥，使万有其一，怨酷已多。岂若缓其告敛之晨，申其望生之冀。
请自今士庶，宜悉依古，三日大敛。
如有不奉，加以纠绳。
诏可其奏。
寻授宣惠将军，置佐史，侍中、仆射如故。
又除尚书仆射、中卫将军。
勉以旧恩，越升重位，尽心奉上，知无不为。
爰自小选，迄于此职，常参掌衡石，甚得士心。

translation:
The foreign government can use praise as appropriate to commend good people.
Zhou She had two sons: Hongyi and Hongxin.
Xu Mian, whose courtesy name was Xiuren, was a native of Tan, East China Sea.
Grandfather Changzong served as the commander of the residence of the feudal prince of the Song Dynasty and joined the army.
His father, Xu Rong, served as the Prime Minister of Nanchang.
Xu Mian was lonely and poor when he was young, and he honed his moral integrity very early.
When he was six years old, when it rained heavily and his family prayed for clear weather, Xu Mian casually wrote a blessing, which was praised by his elders.
When you grow up, be determined to be eager to learn.
He started his family as a son of the country.
Taiwei Wenxian, Duke Wang Jian, was the wine minister at that time, and he often praised Xu Mian for his magnanimity as a prime minister.
He ranked first in the examination and was appointed as the Minister of Xiyang Kingdom.
Soon he was transferred to the post of doctor of Taixue, joined the army in town, and became the lieutenant of Shangshu Palace. He was dismissed from his post due to official business.
He was also awarded the title of "Zhongbing Lang" and "Leading Army Chief".
Wang Yuanchang, a native of Langxie, had a high reputation for literary talent. He once wanted to get acquainted with Xu Mian and often asked people to summon him.
Xu Mian said: Wang Lang's reputation is so high and rising rapidly that it is difficult for him to tear his clothes easily.
Not long after Yuan Chang was in trouble, everyone at that time admired Xu Mian's sharp insight.
At first, he made friends with King Xuanwu of Changsha. Emperor Gaozu valued him highly.
When the rebel army arrived in the capital, Xu Mian met with him in Xinlin. Emperor Gaozu treated him with special kindness and courtesy and assigned him to be in charge of Wen Secretary Lu.
After Emperor Gaozu came to the throne, Xu Mian was appointed as the Minister of Zhongshu, and was transferred to General Jianwei, Houjun Consultation to join the army, Zhongzheng of Honzhou, and Zuocheng of Shangshu.
Since taking over the power of law enforcement, there have been many pickets and impeachments, and public opinion at that time believed that he was competent for his job.
In the second year of Tianjian, he was appointed as the Minister of Huangmen and the Minister of Libu, and participated in the selection of important officials.
Transferred to serve as a servant.
At that time, the imperial army was marching north, and documents waiting to be sent were piled up.
Xu Mian was involved in taking charge of military documents and worked hard day and night. It often took dozens of days before he could return home.
Every time he returned, the dogs at home would bark in surprise.
Xu Mian sighed and said: I am worried that the country will forget the family and go to the extreme.
If I die, it will be a biographical thing.
In the sixth year, he was appointed Minister of Shizhong and Wubing, and was transferred to Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
Xu Mian is in the department that selects officials. He is well organized, familiar with letters and good at rhetoric. Although there are piles of copywriting and a room full of guests, he can cope with things like water, and he still keeps writing in his hands.
It also understands hundreds of surnames and can avoid using taboos for them.
Xu Mian often had night gatherings with Menjin, and a guest named Yu Song wanted to talk to Zhan about the five sense organs. Xu Mian said solemnly: "Tonight we can only talk about the breeze and the bright moon, and there should be no business involved."
So people at that time admired his lack of selfishness.
He was appointed as a regular servant of the scattered cavalry and a guerrilla general. Before he took office, he was appointed as the prince's right guard.
He was transferred to Zuowei General and the crown prince's concubine to serve in the East Palace.
Prince Zhaoming was still young and ordered Xu Mian to take charge of palace affairs.
The prince respected him very much and consulted and discussed everything.
The "Book of Filial Piety" was taught in the palace. King Jinghui of Linchuan and Shangshu ordered Shen Yue to serve as Taifu and Shaofu. Xu Mian and Guozi Jijiu Zhang Chong were responsible for teaching the classics and teaching. Wang Ying, Zhang Ji, Liu Kai and Wang Mei served as ministers.
At that time, the candidates were extremely close and wise, and they were highly praised at that time. Xu Mian repeatedly stated his recommendation.
He also wrote a letter to Shen Yue, requesting that he be replaced as a minister, but the imperial edict did not allow it, and he took up the post.
He was appointed Prince Zhan Shi and concurrently General of Yunqi. Soon he was granted the title of Regular Attendant of Sanqi and was promoted to Minister, Right Servant. Zhan Shi remained as before.
He was also promoted to a servant, and he frequently petitioned to be relieved of his position in the palace, but Shaoshu politely replied that he would not allow it.
At that time, folk funerals often did not follow etiquette. People died in the morning and funerals were held in the evening.
Xu Mian wrote in his memorial: "Book of Rites." "Wen Ming Ming" says: If the person is buried after three days, he is waiting for the resurrection of the deceased; if he does not come back to life after three days, he will not be able to be resurrected.
In recent times, this system has not been followed.
The final ceremony was held on the same day as the funeral. Some wealthy families only took half a day to put on clothes and coffins. They regarded speed as an honor. Relatives and servants each wanted to rest and return.
So just when the deceased is about to lose his breath, the lime nails are ready. He forgets about the fox and mouse turning back and walks away, and feels nostalgic about the lingering and flying sparrow.
There is no greater harm to feelings and reasons than sending someone off.
Moreover, when the son received the single quilt covering the corpse, he felt depressed and sad. Everything needed for the funeral came from the hands of others. The depth of love and hatred, the matter was really unforgivable.
If there are occasional errors in observation, life and death are contradictory, if one person in ten thousand has a lot of resentment and cruelty, nothing can be compared to delaying the time of burial and expressing the hope of resurrection.
I request that from now on, regardless of the scholar family or common people, they should follow the ancient system and be buried after three days.
Anyone who fails to comply will be punished and punished.
The edict agreed with Xu Mian's memorial.
Soon after, he was appointed General Xuanhui and appointed auxiliary staff. The positions of servants and servants remained the same.
He was also appointed as Shangshu Pushe and Zhongwei General.
Xu Mian was promoted to a higher position because of his old friendship and served the emperor wholeheartedly. There is nothing you know that you cannot do.
From a small position to this position, he often participated in the selection of talents and was very popular among scholars.

summary:
Xu Mian, courtesy name Xiuren, was from Tan, East China Sea. His father Xu Rong served as Prime Minister of Nanchang. Orphaned young, Xu Mian cultivated moral integrity early. At six, he wrote a prayer during a rainstorm, praised by elders. He grew up diligent in learning, starting as a son of the state. Wang Jian, the wine minister, praised his prime ministerial demeanor. He ranked first in exams and held various posts, including Doctor of Taixue and Shangshu Palace lieutenant. He was dismissed due to official business but later reinstated. Wang Yuanchang sought his acquaintance, but Xu Mian declined, foreseeing Wang's trouble, earning admiration for his insight. He befriended King Xuanwu of Changsha and met Emperor Gaozu in Xinlin, who valued him. After Gaozu's accession, Xu Mian served as Minister of Zhongshu and other roles, known for effective law enforcement and impeachments. In the second year of Tianjian, he became Minister of Huangmen and Libu, participating in talent selection. During a northern campaign, he worked tirelessly on military documents, often not returning home for days. In the sixth year, he became Minister of Shizhong and later Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, managing selections efficiently. He avoided discussing official matters at social gatherings, earning respect for his lack of selfishness. He served as Prince Zhan Shi and taught the "Book of Filial Piety" to Prince Zhaoming. Xu Mian reformed funeral customs, advocating for three-day burials per ancient rites, which the emperor approved. He rose to Shangshu Pushe and Zhongwei General, serving the emperor wholeheartedly. He participated in revising the Five Rites, submitting a detailed memorial in the sixth year of the Putong era, compiling 1,176 volumes of rituals. He left his descendants integrity rather than wealth, as expressed in a letter to his son Xu Song. He built a small garden for leisure, not profit. After his son Xu Qiu's death, he wrote "Reply to Guests" to express his grief. In the third year of Zhongdatong, he retired due to illness, receiving honors. He died in the first year of Datong at age seventy. The emperor mourned deeply, granting posthumous titles and gifts. Xu Mian was a prolific writer, compiling works like "Notes on Living Things" and "Huilin." His son Xu Qiu was also talented, serving as Prince Sheren and Jin'an internal history. Chen Libu Shangshu praised Xu Mian as a respected minister of the Liang Dynasty.

================================================================================

