Chunk 0: 
original: 
简文帝太宗简文皇帝，讳纲，字世缵，小字六通，高祖第三子，昭明太子母弟也。
天监二年十月丁未，生于显阳殿。
五年，封晋安王，食邑八千户。
八年，为云麾将军，领石头戍军事，量置佐吏。
九年，迁使持节、都督南北兗、青、徐、冀五州诸军事、宣毅将军、南兗州刺史。
十二年，入为宣惠将军、丹阳尹。
十三年，出为使持节、都督荆、雍、梁、南北秦、益、宁七州诸军事、南蛮校尉、荆州刺史，将军如故。
十四年，徙为都督江州诸军事、云麾将军、江州刺史，持节如故。
十七年，征为西中郎将、领石头戍军事，寻复为宣惠将军、丹阳尹，加侍中。
普通元年，出为使持节、都督益、宁、雍、梁、南北秦、沙七州诸军事、益州刺史；未拜，改授云麾将军、南徐州刺史。
四年，徙为使持节、都督雍、梁、南北秦四州郢州之竟陵司州之随郡诸军事，平西将军、宁蛮校尉、雍州刺史。
五年，进号安北将军。
七年，权进都督荆、益、南梁三州诸军事。
是岁，丁所生穆贵嫔丧，上表陈解，诏还摄本任。
中大通元年，诏依先给鼓吹一部。
二年，征为都督南扬、徐二州诸军事、骠骑将军、扬州刺史。
三年四月乙巳，昭明太子薨。
五月丙申，诏曰： 非至公无以主天下，非博爱无以临四海。
所以尧舜克让，惟德是与；文王舍伯邑考而立武王，格于上下，光于四表。
今岱宗牢落，天步艰难，淳风犹郁，黎民未乂，自非克明克哲，允武允文，岂能荷神器之重，嗣龙图之尊。
晋安王纲，文义生知，孝敬自然，威惠外宣，德行内敏，群后归美，率土宅心。
translation: 
Emperor Taizong's Jianwen was named Gang, with the courtesy name Shizuan and the nickname Liutong. He was the third son of Emperor Gaozu and the half-brother of Prince Zhaoming.
He was born in Xianyang Hall on October 28th, the second year of Tianjian.
In the fifth year of Tianjian's reign, he was granted the title of King of Jin'an and had a settlement of 8,000 households.
In the eighth year of Tianjian's reign, he was appointed General Yunhui, leading the military garrison in Shitou, and considered setting up advisers.
In the ninth year of Tianjian, he was promoted to envoy Chijie, governor of the military affairs of the five states of southern and northern Yanzhou, Qing, Xu, and Hebei, general Xuanyi, and governor of southern Yanzhou.
In the twelfth year of Tianjian, he was appointed as General Hui and Danyang Yin.
In the thirteenth year of Tianjian, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the seven states of Jing, Yong, Liang, Southern and Northern Qin, Yi, and Ning. He was also the captain of the Southern Barbarians and the governor of Jingzhou. He remained the general.
In the 14th year of Tianjian's reign, he was transferred to be the commander-in-chief of Jiangzhou's military affairs, General Yunhui, and Jiangzhou governor, and his integrity remained unchanged.
In the 17th year of Tianjian's reign, he was recruited as General Xizhonglang to lead the military garrison in Shitou. Soon he was appointed General Xuanhui and Danyang Yin, as well as Shizhong.
In the first year of Fongfeng, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, governor of Yi, Ning, Yong, Liang, Southern, Northern Qin, and Shaqizhou armies, and governor of Yizhou. Before he took office, he was appointed General Yunhui and governor of Southern Xuzhou.
In the ordinary four years, he was transferred to the envoy Chijie, the governor of the four prefectures of Yong, Liang, Southern and Northern Qin, as well as the military affairs of Jingling and Sizhou Suijun in Yingzhou, the general of Pingxi, the captain of Ningman, and the governor of Yongzhou.
In ordinary five years, he was promoted to General Anbei.
In the seventh year of ordinary life, he was promoted to the commander-in-chief and commanded the military affairs of Jing, Yi and Nanliang states.
In this year, Ding's mother, Mu Guifei, died. She presented her views in a memorial and issued an edict to return to her post.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, an imperial edict was issued to provide a section of vocal music in accordance with precedent.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was recruited as the governor of Nanyang and Xuzhou's military affairs, the hussar general, and the governor of Yangzhou.
On April 6, the third year of Zhongdatong, Prince Zhaoming passed away.
On May 28th, he issued an edict: If you are not selfless, you cannot govern the country; if you do not love the people, you cannot rule the world.
Therefore, Yao was able to make a worthy person better than Shun, and recommended him as long as he was virtuous; King Wen abandoned Boyi Kao and established King Wu, and his glory shone in all directions.
Nowadays, Daizong is desolate, the country's fortunes are difficult, but the honest and honest customs are still strong, and the people are not governed. How can people who are not wise and talented, capable of both literature and martial arts shoulder the important responsibilities of the country?
Wang Gang of Jin'an, the connotation of the article does not need to be learned. It is natural to do good deeds and respect your elders. Prestige and favor are spread to the outside. The inner virtue is smart and witty. The queens are attached to beauty. Within the realm, they are united.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
可立为皇太子。
七月乙亥，临轩策拜，以修缮东宫，权居东府。
四年九月，移还东宫。
太清三年五月丙辰，高祖崩。
辛巳，即皇帝位。
诏曰： 朕以不造，夙丁闵凶。
大行皇帝奄弃万国，攀慕号絺，厝身靡所。
猥以寡德，越居民上，茕茕在疚，罔知所托，方赖籓辅，社稷用安。
谨遵先旨，顾命遗泽，宜加亿兆。
可大赦天下。
壬午，诏曰： 育物惟宽，驭民惟惠，道著兴王，本非隶役。
或开奉国，便致擒虏，或在边疆，滥被抄劫。
二邦是竞，黎元何罪！
朕以寡昧，创承鸿业，既临率土，化行宇宙，岂欲使彼独为匪民。
诸州见在北人为奴婢者，并及妻儿，悉可原放。
癸未，追谥妃王氏为简皇后。
六月丙戌，以南康嗣王会理为司空。
丁亥，立宣城王大器为皇太子。
壬辰，封当阳公大心为寻阳郡王，石城公大款为江夏郡王，宁国公大临为南海郡王，临城公大连为南郡王，西豊公大春为安陆郡王，新涂公大成为山阳郡王，临湘公大封为宜都郡王。
秋七月甲寅，广州刺史元景仲谋应侯景，西江督护陈霸先起兵攻之，景仲自杀，霸先迎定州刺史萧勃为刺史。
戊辰，以吴郡置吴州，以安陆王大春为刺史。
庚午，以司空南康嗣王会理兼尚书令，南海王大临为扬州刺史，新兴王大庄为南徐州刺史。
是月，九江大饥，人相食十四五。
八月癸卯，征东大将军、开府仪同三司、南徐州刺史萧渊藻薨。
冬十月丁未，地震。
十二月，百济国遣使献方物。
大宝元年春正月辛亥朔，以国哀不朝会。
诏曰： 盖天下者，至公之神器，在昔三五，不获已而临莅之。
故帝王之功，圣人之余事。轩冕之华，傥来之一物。
translation: 
Suitable for being crown prince.
On July 7, I went to the main hall to give advice and worship. Because of the renovation of the East Palace, I temporarily lived in the East Palace.
In September of the fourth year of Zhongdatong, he moved back to the East Palace to live.
On May 2, the third year of Taiqing, Emperor Gaozu passed away.
On the 28th, he became emperor.
Issued an edict: I suffered misfortune due to the loss of my father.
The Emperor Daxing suddenly abandoned all the kingdoms, admired his name, and was in a lost place.
I have little virtue, but I am above all people. I am lonely and miserable, and I don’t know who to trust. I am relying on my vassal, so the country is stable.
I sincerely follow the late Emperor's will and bring benefits to the common people across the country.
The sentences of convicted criminals nationwide can be reduced or exempted.
On the 29th, an edict was issued: It is advisable to adopt loose policies to cultivate things, and to govern the people should bring them blessings. To prosper the king, he is not a slave.
Some started to serve the country, but were captured and taken as prisoners; some were on the border, and their homes were ransacked and robbed for no reason.
In the struggle between countries, what are the crimes of the people!
I am ignorant and created the great cause of Chenghong. Since I govern the country and transform the universe, why do I plan to let them become bandits alone!
All living northern slaves in each state, as well as their wives and children, should be released.
On the 30th, the posthumous title was given to the princess as Queen Jian.
On June 2, he was appointed Sikong, the successor king of Nankang.
On the third day, King Daqi of Xuancheng was established as the crown prince.
On the 8th, Duke Daxin of Dangyang was granted the title of Prince of Xunyang, Duke of Shicheng was granted the title of Prince of Jiangxia, Duke Ningguo was granted the title of Prince of Nanhai, Duke Dalian of Lincheng was granted the title of Nan Commandery, Duke Dachun of Xifeng was granted the title of Prince of Anlu, Gong Da of Xingan was granted the title of Prince of Shanyang, and Duke Linxiang was granted the title of Prince of Yidu.
On the first day of the seventh month in autumn, Yuan Jingzhong, the governor of Guangzhou, planned to respond to Hou Jing. Chen Baxian, the governor of Xijiang, led troops to attack him. Yuan Jingzhong committed suicide. Chen Baxian welcomed Xiao Bo, the governor of Dingzhou, as the governor.
On the 15th, Wu Prefecture was established in Wu County, and King Dachun of Anlu was appointed as the governor.
On the 17th, he was appointed Sikong Nankang's successor king as Huili and Shangshu Ling, Nanhai Wang Dalin was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou, and Xinxing Wang Dazhuang was appointed as the governor of South Xuzhou.
This month, a great famine occurred in Jiujiang, and four or five out of ten people were cannibalistic.
On August 20, Xiao Yuanzao, the general who conquered the east, the third division of Kaifu Yitong, and the governor of South Xuzhou, passed away.
On October 25th in winter, an earthquake occurred.
In December, Baekje sent envoys to donate local products.
On the first day of the first month of spring in the first year of Dabao, no court meeting was held due to national mourning.
Edict: The state is a selfless and sacred object. In the past, three emperors and five emperors came to the throne out of necessity.
Therefore, the emperor's success, the saint's busy schedule, and the magnificence of the crown may all come from one thing.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
太祖文皇帝含光大之量，启西伯之基。
高祖武皇帝道洽二仪，智周万物。
属齐季荐瘥，彝伦剥丧，同气离入苑之祸，元首怀无厌之欲，乃当乐推之运，因亿兆之心，承彼掎角，雪兹仇耻。
事非为己，义实从民。故功成弗居，卑宫菲食，大慈之业普薰，汾阳之诏屡下。
于兹四纪，无得而称。
朕以寡昧，哀茕孔棘，生灵已尽，志不图全，僶俛视阴，企承鸿绪。
悬旌履薄，未足云喻。
痛甚愈迟，谅暗弥切。
方当玄默在躬，栖心事外。
即王道未直，天步犹艰，式凭宰辅，以弘庶政。
履端建号，仰惟旧章。
可大赦天下，改太清四年为大宝元年。
丁巳，天雨黄沙。
己未，太白经天，辛酉乃止。
西魏寇安陆，执司州刺史柳仲礼，尽没汉东之地。
丙寅，月昼见。
癸酉，前江都令祖皓起义，袭广陵，斩贼南兗州刺史董绍先。
侯景自帅水步军击皓。
二月癸未，景攻陷广陵，皓等并见害。
丙戌，以安陆王大春为东扬州刺史。
省吴州，如先为郡。
诏曰： 近东垂扰乱，江阳纵逸。上宰运谋，猛士雄奋，吴、会肃清，济、兗澄谧，京师畿内，无事戎衣。
朝廷达宫，斋内左右，并可解严。
乙巳，以尚书仆射王克为左仆射。
是月，邵陵王纶自寻阳至于夏口，郢州刺史南平王恪以州让纶。
丙午，侯景逼太宗幸西州。
夏五月庚午，征北将军、开府仪同三司鄱阳嗣王范薨。
自春迄夏，大饥，人相食，京师尤甚。
六月辛巳，以南郡王大连行扬州事。
庚子，前司州刺史羊鸦仁自尚书省出奔西州。
秋七月戊辰，贼行台任约寇江州，刺史寻阳王大心以州降约。
是月，以南郡王大连为江州刺史。
translation: 
Emperor Taizu Wen had great ambition and started a foundation like Xibo.
Emperor Gaozu Wu was able to coordinate the two rituals and make all things known in the universe.
Seeing the deep crisis in the late Qi Dynasty, the loss of human relations, and the disaster of Tongqi Li entering the Yuan Dynasty, the monarch had an insatiable desire, so he should be happy to push his luck, follow the wishes of the common people, and rely on them to avenge this hatred and shame.
Things are not done for personal gain, but really belong to the people, so they are accomplished without taking credit. They live in humble palaces, eat vegetarian food, have great kindness, and have been issued many edicts from Fenyang.
It has been four centuries now, and there is no one to call it.
I am ignorant, lonely and thorny, my soul has been exhausted, and my ambition is incomplete. He looked down at Yin, trying to inherit the great cause.
Hanging flags are too thin to be used as metaphors.
The pain is so painful that I can't help but feel it.
Fangdang Xuanmo was bowing, but he was worried about something else.
That is to say, the king's path is not straight and the country's destiny is difficult, so it is necessary to rely on the prime minister and assistants to promote government affairs.
The number is built at the end of the journey, but the old chapter is suppressed.
The sentences of convicted criminals across the country can be reduced or exempted, and the fourth year of Taiqing can be changed to the first year of Dabao.
On the seventh day, it rained and yellow sand fell.
On the 9th, Taibai passed through the sky and disappeared on the 11th.
The Western Wei Dynasty invaded Anlu, arrested Liu Zhongli, the governor of Sizhou, and captured all the lands east of Han Dynasty.
On the 16th, the moon appeared in the daytime.
On the 23rd, Qianjiangdu ordered Zu Hao to revolt, attack Guangling, and kill the traitor Dong Shaoxian, the governor of Nanyanzhou.
Hou Jing personally led the water infantry to attack Zu Hao.
On February 3, Hou Jing captured Guangling, and Zu Hao and others were killed.
On the 6th, King Dachun of Anlu was appointed governor of Dongyangzhou.
After inspecting Wuzhou, it was still changed to a county as before.
The edict is issued: Recently, there have been intrusions and disturbances in the east of the country, and Jiangyang is turbulent. The prime minister is planning and planning, and the warriors are working hard to clear Wu and Hui, stabilize Ji and Yan, and there is nothing to do in the capital.
Martial law can be lifted by high-ranking officials of the imperial court, both inside and outside the palace.
On the 25th, Ren Shangshu Pushe Wang Ke was appointed Zuo Pushe.
This month, Wang Lun of Shaoling arrived at Xiakou from Xunyang. Wang Ke, the governor of Yingzhou, Nanping, transferred Yingzhou to Wang Lun of Shaoling.
On the 26th, Hou Jing forced Taizong to visit Xizhou.
On the 22nd day of the fifth month of the Xia Dynasty, General Zhengbei, Kaifu Yi and the Third Division Poyang Successor Wang Fan died.
From spring to summer, there was a great famine, with people eating people, and the situation in the capital became even more serious.
On June 3rd, he was appointed Prince of Nanjun in Dalian to conduct affairs in Yangzhou.
On the 22nd, Yang Yaren, the former governor of Sizhou, fled from Shangshu Province to Xizhou.
On the 20th day of the seventh lunar month in the autumn, the thieves went to Taiwan and Ren Yue invaded Jiangzhou. The governor of Xunyang, King Daxin, surrendered to Ren Yue.
This month, Dalian, the king of Nanjun, was appointed governor of Jiangzhou.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
八月甲午，湘东王绎遣领军将军王僧辩率众逼郢州。
乙亥，侯景自进位相国，封二十郡为汉王。
邵陵王纶弃郢州走。
冬十月乙未，侯景又逼太宗幸西州曲宴，自加宇宙大将军、都督六合诸军事。
立皇子大钧为西阳郡王，大威为武宁郡王，大球为建安郡王，大昕为义安郡王，大挚为绥建郡王，大圜为乐梁郡王。
壬寅，景害南康嗣王会理。
十一月，任约进据西阳，分兵寇齐昌，执衡阳王献送京师，害之。
湘东王绎遣前宁州刺史徐文盛督众军拒约。
南郡王前中兵张彪起义于会稽若邪山，攻破浙东诸县。
二年春二月，邵陵王纶走至安陆董城，为西魏所攻，军败，死。
三月，侯景自帅众西寇。
丁未，发京师，自石头至新林，舳舻相接。
四月，至西阳。
乙亥，景分遣伪将宋子仙、任约袭郢州。
丙子，执刺史萧方诸。
闰月甲子，景进寇巴陵，湘东王绎所遣领军将军王僧辩连战不能克。
五月癸未，湘东王驿遣游击将军胡僧祐、信州刺史陆法和援巴陵，景遣任约帅众拒援军。
六月甲辰，僧祐等击破任约，擒之。
乙巳，景解围宵遁，王僧辩督众军追景。
庚申，攻鲁山城，克之，获魏司徒张化仁、仪同门洪庆。
辛酉，进围郢州，下之，获贼帅宋子仙等。
鄱阳王故将侯瑱起兵，袭伪仪同于庆于豫章，庆败走。
秋七月丁亥，侯景还至京师。
辛丑，王僧辩军次湓城，贼行江州事范希荣弃城走。
八月丙午，晋熙人王僧振、郑宠起兵袭郡城，伪晋州刺史夏侯威生、仪同任延遁走。
戊午，侯景遣卫尉卿彭俊、厢公王僧贵率兵入殿，废太宗为晋安王，幽于永福省。
害皇太子大器、寻阳王大心、西阳王大钧、武宁王大威、建平王大球、义安王大昕及寻阳王诸子二十人。
矫为太宗诏，禅于豫章嗣王栋，大赦改年。
遣使害南海王大临于吴郡，南郡王大连于姑孰，安陆王大春于会稽，新兴王大庄于京口。
冬十月壬寅，帝谓舍人殷不害曰： 吾昨夜梦吞土，卿试为我思之。
不害曰： 昔重耳馈塊，卒还晋国。
translation: 
On August 17, Wang Yi of eastern Hunan sent his leading general Wang Sengbian to lead his troops to approach Yingzhou.
In Yihai, Hou Jing proclaimed himself Prime Minister and made twenty counties the King of Han.
Wang Lun of Shaoling abandoned Yingzhou and fled.
On the 19th day of the tenth month in winter, Hou Jing forced Taizong to visit Xizhou and hosted a private banquet. He named himself the general of the universe and the commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Liuhe.
The prince Dajun was made the king of Xiyang, Dawei was the king of Wuning, Daqiu was the king of Jian'an, Daxin was the king of Yi'an, Dazhi was the king of Suijian, and Dahuan was the king of Leliang.
On the 26th, Hou Jing killed Huili, the successor king of Nankang.
In November, Ren Yue marched into Xiyang, divided his troops and invaded Qichang, arrested Wang Xian of Hengyang, escorted him to the capital, and killed him.
Wang Yi of eastern Hunan sent Xu Wensheng, the governor of Ningzhou, to lead an army to resist Ren Yue.
Zhang Biao, a soldier in front of the king of Nanjun, revolted in Ruoxie Mountain in Kuaiji and conquered the counties in eastern Zhejiang.
In the spring and February of the second year of Dabao, Wang Lun of Shaoling fled to Dongcheng, Anlu. He was attacked by the Western Wei Dynasty and was defeated and died.
In March, Hou Jing personally led his troops to invade westward.
In three days, we set out from the capital, from Shitou to Xinlin, with the bow and stern connected to each other.
In April, arrived in Xiyang.
In Yihai, Hou Jing sent puppet generals Song Zixian and Ren Yue to attack Yingzhou respectively.
Bingzi arrested the governor Xiao Fangxu.
On the 21st, Hou Jing invaded Baling. Wang Sengbian, the leading general sent by Wang Yi of eastern Hunan, fought continuously but failed to win.
On May 11, King Yi of eastern Hunan sent guerrilla general Hu Seng and Xinzhou governor Lu Fahe to reinforce Baling. Hou Jing sent Ren Yue to lead an army to resist the reinforcements.
On June 2, Monk Hu and others broke through Ren Yue's defense and captured Ren Yue.
On the third day, Hou Jing broke the siege and escaped late at night. Wang Sengbian led his troops to pursue Hou Jing.
On the 18th, he attacked Krushan City and captured Wei Situ Zhang Huaren and Yi's fellow disciple Hong Qing.
On the 19th, they encircled and captured Yingzhou and captured the bandit commander Song Zixian and others.
The old generals of Poyang King mobilized their troops and attacked the fake Yitong Yuqing in Yuzhang. Yuqing was defeated and fled.
On the 16th day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, Hou Jing returned to the capital.
On the 30th, Wang Sengbian stationed his troops in Huancheng, but the thieves went to Jiangzhou and Fan Xirong abandoned the city and fled.
On August 5, Wang Sengzhen and Zheng Chong from Jinxi launched an army to attack the county. Xiahou Weisheng, the puppet governor of Jinzhou, and Yi Tongren Yan fled.
On the 17th, Hou Jing sent Wei Wei Qing Peng Jun and Xiang Gong Wang Senggui to lead troops into the palace, deposed Taizong as King of Jin'an, and imprisoned him in Yongfu Province.
Twenty people including Crown Prince Daqi, Xunyang Wang Daxin, Xiyang Wang Dajun, Wuning Wang Dawei, Jianping Wang Daqiu, Yi'an Wang Daxin and Xunyang Wang Zhuer were killed.
The false edict of Emperor Taizong was passed on, and the Zen throne was given to Wang Dong, the heir of Yuzhang. All the convicted criminals in the country were commuted or exempted from their sentences, and their reign names were changed.
He sent people to kill Nanhai Wang Dalin in Wujun, Nanjun Wang Dalian in Gushu, Anlu Wang Dachun in Kuaiji, and Xinxing Wang Dazhuang in Jingkou.
On October 2nd in winter, Emperor Taizong said to his confidant Yin Buyai: I dreamed last night that I was swallowing dirt, and Aiqing tried to explain it to me.
Yin Buhui said: In the past, Chong'er accepted the donated clods of soil and eventually returned to the state of Jin.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
陛下所梦，得符是乎。
及王伟等进觞于帝曰： 丞相以陛下忧愤既久，使臣上寿。
帝笑曰： 寿酒，不得尽此乎？
于是并赉酒肴、曲项琵琶，与帝饮。
帝知不免，乃尽酣，曰： 不图为乐一至于斯！
既醉寝，伟乃出，俊进土囊，王修纂坐其上，于是太宗崩于永福省，时年四十九。
贼伪谥曰明皇帝，庙称高宗。
明年，三月癸丑，王僧辩率前百官奉梓宫升朝堂，世祖追崇为简文皇帝，庙曰太宗。
四月乙丑，葬庄陵。
初，太宗见幽絷，题壁自序云： 有梁正士兰陵萧世缵，立身行道，终始如一，风雨如晦，鸡鸣不已。
弗欺暗室，岂况三光，数至于此，命也如何！
又为《连珠》二首，文甚凄怆。
太宗幼而敏睿，识悟过人，六岁便属文，高祖惊其早就，弗之信也。乃于御前面试，辞采甚美。
高祖叹曰： 此子，吾家之东阿。
既长，器宇宽弘，未尝见愠喜。
方颊豊下，须鬓如画，眄睐则目光烛人。
读书十行俱下。
九流百氏，经目必记；篇章辞赋，操笔立成。
博综儒书，善言玄理。
自年十一，便能亲庶务，历试蕃政，所在有称。
在穆贵嫔忧，哀毁骨立，昼夜号泣不绝声，所坐之席，沾湿尽烂。
在襄阳拜表北伐，遣长史柳津、司马董当门，壮武将军杜怀宝、振远将军曹义宗等众军进讨，克平南阳、新野等郡，魏南荆州刺史李志据安昌城降，拓地千余里。
及居监抚，多所弘宥，文案簿领，纤毫不可欺。
引纳文学之士，赏接无倦，恒讨论篇籍，继以文章。
高祖所制《五经讲疏》，尝于玄圃奉述，听者倾朝野。
translation: 
Your Majesty, what you dreamed about was exactly this kind of auspicious talisman.
When Wang Wei and others toasted Emperor Taizong, they said: "I thought that Your Majesty has been worried and angry for a long time, so I offer you longevity wine."
Emperor Taizong smiled and said: "Shou wine can't fully express this state of mind!"
So they all presented them with fine wines, delicacies, music and pipa, and drank with Emperor Taizong.
Emperor Taizong knew that he was bound to die, so he got very drunk and said: I never thought that the joy of drunkenness could reach such a state!
When he was drunk and sleeping, Wang Wei and Peng Jun put a bag filled with soil on top of him, and Wang Zuan sat on the bag. In this way, Taizong died in Yongfu Province at the age of forty-nine.
The thieves posthumously named him "Emperor Ming", and the temple was called "Gaozong".
On March 21, the third year of Dabao, Wang Sengbian led hundreds of former officials to the Zi Palace and ascended to the imperial court. The ancestors worshiped him as "Emperor Jianwen" and the temple name was "Taizong".
On April 29th, he was buried in Zhuangling.
When Taizong was imprisoned, he narrated his life story on the wall: Lanling Xiao Shizuan, a man of integrity and integrity, established himself and pursued morality. From beginning to end, there was no change. The country was in turmoil and wars continued.
There is no place that is dark and uninhabited, let alone the sun, moon and stars! This happens many times, who knows what the fate will be like!
He also wrote two poems, "Lianzhu", with extremely sad lyrics.
When he was young, Taizong was smart, witty and knowledgeable. His knowledge and understanding were beyond ordinary people. He was able to compose at the age of six. Emperor Gaozu marveled at his precocity and did not believe it was true, so he interviewed him personally. As expected, his diction and style were excellent.
Emperor Gaozu sighed: This child will become Dong'a of my family.
When you grow up, you will be broad-minded and ambitious, and will not easily reveal your emotions.
The cheeks are square and plump, and the beard and temples are like a painting. If you look at him, your eyes will be scorching.
Read ten lines at a glance.
The thoughts of hundreds of characters from nine genres are never forgotten and kept in mind. Articles, words and poems can be written in one stroke.
He is erudite in Confucianism and good at metaphysics.
From the age of eleven, he has been familiar with various government affairs of the country, and has been praised for his many attempts to deal with foreign affairs.
During the period of mourning for Mu's noble concubine, she became extremely thin due to the grief of her loss. It was as if she was leaning on her bones and she was sobbing non-stop. The mats she sat on were all soaked with tears and rotted.
In Xiangyang, the Northern Expedition was launched, and several armies including Chief Shi Liujin, Sima Dong Dangmen, Zhuangwu General Du Huaibao, and Zhenyuan General Cao Yizong were dispatched to attack the enemy. They pacified Nanyang, Xinye and other counties. Li Zhi, the governor of Jingzhou in southern Wei, occupied Anchang City and surrendered, expanding his territory by more than a thousand miles.
When he was appointed to supervise the country and Fujun, he showed great tolerance and magnanimity. He was responsible for handling the case files without making any mistakes.
Attract and recruit literary people, never tire of appreciating and receiving them, often discuss books, and then write articles.
The "Explanations of the Five Classics" compiled by Emperor Gaozu was once recited in Xuanpu, and the audience was moved by both the government and the public.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
雅好题诗，其序云： 余七岁有诗癖，长而不倦。
然伤于轻艳，当时号曰 宫体 。
所著《昭明太子传》五卷，《诸王传》三十卷，《礼大义》二十卷，《老子义》二十卷，《庄子义》二十卷，《长春义记》一百卷，《法宝连璧》三百卷，并行于世焉。
史臣曰：太宗幼年聪睿，令问夙标，天才纵逸，冠于今古。
文则时以轻华为累，君子所不取焉。
及养德东朝，声被夷夏，洎乎继统，实有人君之懿矣。
方符文、景，运钟《屯》、《剥》，受制贼臣，弗展所蕴，终罹怀、愍之酷，哀哉！
translation: 
Yahao wrote a poem, and his preface reads: I was addicted to poetry when I was seven years old, and I have never slacked off since I became an adult.
However, the injury was minor and it was called "uterine body" at that time.
He wrote five volumes of "The Biography of Prince Zhaoming", thirty volumes of "The Biography of the Kings", twenty volumes of "Li Dayi", twenty volumes of "Laozi Yi", twenty volumes of "Zhuangzi Yi", one hundred volumes of "Changchun Yiji", and three hundred volumes of "Magic Treasure Lianbi".
Shi Chen said: Taizong was smart and wise when he was young. His beautiful knowledge has been spread for a long time. His talents are beyond the past and present.
Because the article was influenced by the frivolous and flashy writing style of the time, it was not appreciated by gentlemen.
When Taizong cultivated his morality in the Eastern Dynasty and his reputation spread throughout the country, and when he succeeded to the throne, he truly possessed the virtues of a human king.
Just when Taizong was governing the country like Emperors Wen and Jing, his fate was unlucky as shown in "Tuen" and "Pi". He was controlled by traitors and could not display his talents. He finally met the cruel ending of Emperor Huai and Emperor Min of Jin. How sad!


