Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 5]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
简文帝太宗简文皇帝，讳纲，字世缵，小字六通，高祖第三子，昭明太子母弟也。
天监二年十月丁未，生于显阳殿。
五年，封晋安王，食邑八千户。
八年，为云麾将军，领石头戍军事，量置佐吏。
九年，迁使持节、都督南北兗、青、徐、冀五州诸军事、宣毅将军、南兗州刺史。
十二年，入为宣惠将军、丹阳尹。
十三年，出为使持节、都督荆、雍、梁、南北秦、益、宁七州诸军事、南蛮校尉、荆州刺史，将军如故。
十四年，徙为都督江州诸军事、云麾将军、江州刺史，持节如故。
十七年，征为西中郎将、领石头戍军事，寻复为宣惠将军、丹阳尹，加侍中。
普通元年，出为使持节、都督益、宁、雍、梁、南北秦、沙七州诸军事、益州刺史；未拜，改授云麾将军、南徐州刺史。
四年，徙为使持节、都督雍、梁、南北秦四州郢州之竟陵司州之随郡诸军事，平西将军、宁蛮校尉、雍州刺史。
五年，进号安北将军。
七年，权进都督荆、益、南梁三州诸军事。
是岁，丁所生穆贵嫔丧，上表陈解，诏还摄本任。
中大通元年，诏依先给鼓吹一部。
二年，征为都督南扬、徐二州诸军事、骠骑将军、扬州刺史。
三年四月乙巳，昭明太子薨。
五月丙申，诏曰： 非至公无以主天下，非博爱无以临四海。
所以尧舜克让，惟德是与；文王舍伯邑考而立武王，格于上下，光于四表。
今岱宗牢落，天步艰难，淳风犹郁，黎民未乂，自非克明克哲，允武允文，岂能荷神器之重，嗣龙图之尊。
晋安王纲，文义生知，孝敬自然，威惠外宣，德行内敏，群后归美，率土宅心。
translation: 
Emperor Taizong's Jianwen was named Gang, with the courtesy name Shizuan and the nickname Liutong. He was the third son of Emperor Gaozu and the half-brother of Prince Zhaoming.
He was born in Xianyang Hall on October 28th, the second year of Tianjian.
In the fifth year of Tianjian's reign, he was granted the title of King of Jin'an and had a settlement of 8,000 households.
In the eighth year of Tianjian's reign, he was appointed General Yunhui, leading the military garrison in Shitou, and considered setting up advisers.
In the ninth year of Tianjian, he was promoted to envoy Chijie, governor of the military affairs of the five states of southern and northern Yanzhou, Qing, Xu, and Hebei, general Xuanyi, and governor of southern Yanzhou.
In the twelfth year of Tianjian, he was appointed as General Hui and Danyang Yin.
In the thirteenth year of Tianjian, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the seven states of Jing, Yong, Liang, Southern and Northern Qin, Yi, and Ning. He was also the captain of the Southern Barbarians and the governor of Jingzhou. He remained the general.
In the 14th year of Tianjian's reign, he was transferred to be the commander-in-chief of Jiangzhou's military affairs, General Yunhui, and Jiangzhou governor, and his integrity remained unchanged.
In the 17th year of Tianjian's reign, he was recruited as General Xizhonglang to lead the military garrison in Shitou. Soon he was appointed General Xuanhui and Danyang Yin, as well as Shizhong.
In the first year of Fongfeng, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, governor of Yi, Ning, Yong, Liang, Southern, Northern Qin, and Shaqizhou armies, and governor of Yizhou. Before he took office, he was appointed General Yunhui and governor of Southern Xuzhou.
In the ordinary four years, he was transferred to the envoy Chijie, the governor of the four prefectures of Yong, Liang, Southern and Northern Qin, as well as the military affairs of Jingling and Sizhou Suijun in Yingzhou, the general of Pingxi, the captain of Ningman, and the governor of Yongzhou.
In ordinary five years, he was promoted to General Anbei.
In the seventh year of ordinary life, he was promoted to the commander-in-chief and commanded the military affairs of Jing, Yi and Nanliang states.
In this year, Ding's mother, Mu Guifei, died. She presented her views in a memorial and issued an edict to return to her post.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, an imperial edict was issued to provide a section of vocal music in accordance with precedent.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was recruited as the governor of Nanyang and Xuzhou's military affairs, the hussar general, and the governor of Yangzhou.
On April 6, the third year of Zhongdatong, Prince Zhaoming passed away.
On May 28th, he issued an edict: If you are not selfless, you cannot govern the country; if you do not love the people, you cannot rule the world.
Therefore, Yao was able to make a worthy person better than Shun, and recommended him as long as he was virtuous; King Wen abandoned Boyi Kao and established King Wu, and his glory shone in all directions.
Nowadays, Daizong is desolate, the country's fortunes are difficult, but the honest and honest customs are still strong, and the people are not governed. How can people who are not wise and talented, capable of both literature and martial arts shoulder the important responsibilities of the country?
Wang Gang of Jin'an, the connotation of the article does not need to be learned. It is natural to do good deeds and respect your elders. Prestige and favor are spread to the outside. The inner virtue is smart and witty. The queens are attached to beauty. Within the realm, they are united.
summary:
Emperor Taizong, named Gang, was the third son of Emperor Gaozu and half-brother of Prince Zhaoming. Born in Xianyang Hall in 464 AD, he was granted the title King of Jin'an in 467 AD with 8,000 households. Over the years, he held various military and civil posts, including General Yunhui, governor of multiple states, and commander-in-chief of military affairs. He was appointed crown prince in 531 AD after Prince Zhaoming's death and became emperor in 549 AD upon Emperor Gaozu's death.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
八月甲午，湘东王绎遣领军将军王僧辩率众逼郢州。
乙亥，侯景自进位相国，封二十郡为汉王。
邵陵王纶弃郢州走。
冬十月乙未，侯景又逼太宗幸西州曲宴，自加宇宙大将军、都督六合诸军事。
立皇子大钧为西阳郡王，大威为武宁郡王，大球为建安郡王，大昕为义安郡王，大挚为绥建郡王，大圜为乐梁郡王。
壬寅，景害南康嗣王会理。
十一月，任约进据西阳，分兵寇齐昌，执衡阳王献送京师，害之。
湘东王绎遣前宁州刺史徐文盛督众军拒约。
南郡王前中兵张彪起义于会稽若邪山，攻破浙东诸县。
二年春二月，邵陵王纶走至安陆董城，为西魏所攻，军败，死。
三月，侯景自帅众西寇。
丁未，发京师，自石头至新林，舳舻相接。
四月，至西阳。
乙亥，景分遣伪将宋子仙、任约袭郢州。
丙子，执刺史萧方诸。
闰月甲子，景进寇巴陵，湘东王绎所遣领军将军王僧辩连战不能克。
五月癸未，湘东王驿遣游击将军胡僧祐、信州刺史陆法和援巴陵，景遣任约帅众拒援军。
六月甲辰，僧祐等击破任约，擒之。
乙巳，景解围宵遁，王僧辩督众军追景。
庚申，攻鲁山城，克之，获魏司徒张化仁、仪同门洪庆。
辛酉，进围郢州，下之，获贼帅宋子仙等。
鄱阳王故将侯瑱起兵，袭伪仪同于庆于豫章，庆败走。
秋七月丁亥，侯景还至京师。
辛丑，王僧辩军次湓城，贼行江州事范希荣弃城走。
八月丙午，晋熙人王僧振、郑宠起兵袭郡城，伪晋州刺史夏侯威生、仪同任延遁走。
戊午，侯景遣卫尉卿彭俊、厢公王僧贵率兵入殿，废太宗为晋安王，幽于永福省。
害皇太子大器、寻阳王大心、西阳王大钧、武宁王大威、建平王大球、义安王大昕及寻阳王诸子二十人。
矫为太宗诏，禅于豫章嗣王栋，大赦改年。
遣使害南海王大临于吴郡，南郡王大连于姑孰，安陆王大春于会稽，新兴王大庄于京口。
冬十月壬寅，帝谓舍人殷不害曰： 吾昨夜梦吞土，卿试为我思之。
不害曰： 昔重耳馈塊，卒还晋国。
translation: 
On August 17, Wang Yi of eastern Hunan sent his leading general Wang Sengbian to lead his troops to approach Yingzhou.
In Yihai, Hou Jing proclaimed himself Prime Minister and made twenty counties the King of Han.
Wang Lun of Shaoling abandoned Yingzhou and fled.
On the 19th day of the tenth month in winter, Hou Jing forced Taizong to visit Xizhou and hosted a private banquet. He named himself the general of the universe and the commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Liuhe.
The prince Dajun was made the king of Xiyang, Dawei was the king of Wuning, Daqiu was the king of Jian'an, Daxin was the king of Yi'an, Dazhi was the king of Suijian, and Dahuan was the king of Leliang.
On the 26th, Hou Jing killed Huili, the successor king of Nankang.
In November, Ren Yue marched into Xiyang, divided his troops and invaded Qichang, arrested Wang Xian of Hengyang, escorted him to the capital, and killed him.
Wang Yi of eastern Hunan sent Xu Wensheng, the governor of Ningzhou, to lead an army to resist Ren Yue.
Zhang Biao, a soldier in front of the king of Nanjun, revolted in Ruoxie Mountain in Kuaiji and conquered the counties in eastern Zhejiang.
In the spring and February of the second year of Dabao, Wang Lun of Shaoling fled to Dongcheng, Anlu. He was attacked by the Western Wei Dynasty and was defeated and died.
In March, Hou Jing personally led his troops to invade westward.
In three days, we set out from the capital, from Shitou to Xinlin, with the bow and stern connected to each other.
In April, arrived in Xiyang.
In Yihai, Hou Jing sent puppet generals Song Zixian and Ren Yue to attack Yingzhou respectively.
Bingzi arrested the governor Xiao Fangxu.
On the 21st, Hou Jing invaded Baling. Wang Sengbian, the leading general sent by Wang Yi of eastern Hunan, fought continuously but failed to win.
On May 11, King Yi of eastern Hunan sent guerrilla general Hu Seng and Xinzhou governor Lu Fahe to reinforce Baling. Hou Jing sent Ren Yue to lead an army to resist the reinforcements.
On June 2, Monk Hu and others broke through Ren Yue's defense and captured Ren Yue.
On the third day, Hou Jing broke the siege and escaped late at night. Wang Sengbian led his troops to pursue Hou Jing.
On the 18th, he attacked Krushan City and captured Wei Situ Zhang Huaren and Yi's fellow disciple Hong Qing.
On the 19th, they encircled and captured Yingzhou and captured the bandit commander Song Zixian and others.
The old generals of Poyang King mobilized their troops and attacked the fake Yitong Yuqing in Yuzhang. Yuqing was defeated and fled.
On the 16th day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, Hou Jing returned to the capital.
On the 30th, Wang Sengbian stationed his troops in Huancheng, but the thieves went to Jiangzhou and Fan Xirong abandoned the city and fled.
On August 5, Wang Sengzhen and Zheng Chong from Jinxi launched an army to attack the county. Xiahou Weisheng, the puppet governor of Jinzhou, and Yi Tongren Yan fled.
On the 17th, Hou Jing sent Wei Wei Qing Peng Jun and Xiang Gong Wang Senggui to lead troops into the palace, deposed Taizong as King of Jin'an, and imprisoned him in Yongfu Province.
Twenty people including Crown Prince Daqi, Xunyang Wang Daxin, Xiyang Wang Dajun, Wuning Wang Dawei, Jianping Wang Daqiu, Yi'an Wang Daxin and Xunyang Wang Zhuer were killed.
The false edict of Emperor Taizong was passed on, and the Zen throne was given to Wang Dong, the heir of Yuzhang. All the convicted criminals in the country were commuted or exempted from their sentences, and their reign names were changed.
He sent people to kill Nanhai Wang Dalin in Wujun, Nanjun Wang Dalian in Gushu, Anlu Wang Dachun in Kuaiji, and Xinxing Wang Dazhuang in Jingkou.
On October 2nd in winter, Emperor Taizong said to his confidant Yin Buyai: I dreamed last night that I was swallowing dirt, and Aiqing tried to explain it to me.
Yin Buhui said: In the past, Chong'er accepted the donated clods of soil and eventually returned to the state of Jin.
summary:
Upon ascending the throne, he issued edicts to reduce sentences, release northern slaves, and appoint officials. He faced challenges such as rebellions, famines, and invasions. In 550 AD, Hou Jing forced him to visit Xizhou and later proclaimed himself prime minister. Hou Jing deposed Taizong as King of Jin'an in 551 AD, imprisoned him, and killed many of his family members. Taizong died in Yongfu Province at age 49, suffocated by a bag of soil. He was posthumously named Emperor Ming, later changed to Emperor Jianwen.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
雅好题诗，其序云： 余七岁有诗癖，长而不倦。
然伤于轻艳，当时号曰 宫体 。
所著《昭明太子传》五卷，《诸王传》三十卷，《礼大义》二十卷，《老子义》二十卷，《庄子义》二十卷，《长春义记》一百卷，《法宝连璧》三百卷，并行于世焉。
史臣曰：太宗幼年聪睿，令问夙标，天才纵逸，冠于今古。
文则时以轻华为累，君子所不取焉。
及养德东朝，声被夷夏，洎乎继统，实有人君之懿矣。
方符文、景，运钟《屯》、《剥》，受制贼臣，弗展所蕴，终罹怀、愍之酷，哀哉！
translation: 
Yahao wrote a poem, and his preface reads: I was addicted to poetry when I was seven years old, and I have never slacked off since I became an adult.
However, the injury was minor and it was called "uterine body" at that time.
He wrote five volumes of "The Biography of Prince Zhaoming", thirty volumes of "The Biography of the Kings", twenty volumes of "Li Dayi", twenty volumes of "Laozi Yi", twenty volumes of "Zhuangzi Yi", one hundred volumes of "Changchun Yiji", and three hundred volumes of "Magic Treasure Lianbi".
Shi Chen said: Taizong was smart and wise when he was young. His beautiful knowledge has been spread for a long time. His talents are beyond the past and present.
Because the article was influenced by the frivolous and flashy writing style of the time, it was not appreciated by gentlemen.
When Taizong cultivated his morality in the Eastern Dynasty and his reputation spread throughout the country, and when he succeeded to the throne, he truly possessed the virtues of a human king.
Just when Taizong was governing the country like Emperors Wen and Jing, his fate was unlucky as shown in "Tuen" and "Pi". He was controlled by traitors and could not display his talents. He finally met the cruel ending of Emperor Huai and Emperor Min of Jin. How sad!
summary:
Taizong was exceptionally intelligent, able to compose at age six, and known for his broad-mindedness and literary talents. He wrote numerous works, including "The Biography of Prince Zhaoming" and "Changchun Yiji." Despite his virtues, he was controlled by traitors and met a tragic end.

