Chunk 0: 
original: 
申屠刚鲍永子昱郅恽子寿申屠刚字巨卿，扶风茂陵人也。七世祖嘉，文帝时为丞相。刚质性方直，常慕史、汲黯之为人。
仕郡功曹。
平帝时，王莽专政，朝多猜忌，遂隔绝帝外家冯、卫二族，不得交宦，刚常疾之。
及举贤良方正，因对策曰：
臣闻王事失则神祇怨怨，奸邪乱正，故阴阳谬错，此天所以谴告王者，欲令失道之君，旷然觉悟，怀邪之臣，惧然自刻者也。今朝廷不考功校德，而虚纳毁誉，数下诏书，张设重法，抑断诽谤，禁割论议，罪之重者，乃至腰斩。
伤忠臣之情，挫直士之锐，殆乖建进善之旌，县敢谏之鼓，辟四门之路，明四目之义也。
臣闻成王幼少，周公摄政，听言不贤，均权市宠，无旧无新，唯仁是亲，动顺天地，举措不失。
然近则召公不悦，远则四国流言。
夫子母之性，天道至亲。
今圣主幼少，始免襁褓，即位以来，至亲分离，外戚杜隔，恩不得通。
translation: 
◆The legend of Shentu Gang is that Shentu Gang was named Juqing and was a native of Maoling, Fufeng County. The seventh generation ancestor Shen Tujia was the prime minister during the reign of Emperor Wen. Shentu was upright and upright, and often envied the conduct of Chief Shi Yu and Ji An.
He became an official of the county meritorious service.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, Wang Mang was in dictatorship, and there were many suspicions in the court. Wang Mang isolated the Feng clan of Emperor Ping's grandmother from the mother Wei clan, and was not allowed to go to Beijing to interact and serve as an official. Shentu Gang always resented this.
Later, when he was praised as a virtuous and upright man, he wrote a countermeasure, saying: If I hear that the government is wrong, the gods of heaven and earth will be angry, and the treacherous and evil will cause trouble, so the yin and yang are wrong.
This is why God condemns and warns the emperor, hoping to teach the unjust monarch to suddenly wake up and make those ministers with evil intentions fear and correct themselves. Nowadays, the imperial court does not examine merits or compare virtues, but instead accepts false slander or praise. It has issued several edicts and set up strict laws to suppress slander and prohibit discussion. Those who commit serious crimes may even be cut in half.
This dampens the friendship of loyal ministers and dampens the spirit of loyal and upright people. It is contrary to the purpose of establishing banners to offer good words, hanging bells and drums for daring to give advice, opening up channels for words from all directions, and clearly observing the four directions so that the feelings of subordinates can be conveyed to superiors.
I heard that when King Cheng was young, the Duke of Zhou acted as regent. He listened to the opinions of others, treated the virtuous and corporal, shared rights and interests equally, spread favor widely, regardless of old or new, treated everyone with kindness, love and closeness, acted in accordance with heaven and earth, and did not violate the rules.
However, if you are close, Duke Zhao is unhappy, and if you are far, there are rumors about Cai, Shang, and the four kingdoms.
The relationship between mother and child is a close relative in heaven.
Your Majesty is young now, only nine years old. Since he came to the throne, his close relatives have been separated, his relatives are separated from each other, and his kindness is not as good as that of his uncle's family.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
且汉家之制，虽任英贤，犹援姻戚。亲疏相错，杜塞间隙，诚所以安宗庙，重社稷也。
今冯、卫无罪，久废不录，或处穷僻，不若民庶，诚非慈爱忠孝承上之意。
夫为人后者，自有正义，至尊至卑，其势不嫌，是以人无贤愚，莫不为怨，奸臣贼子，以之为便，不讳之变，诚难其虑。
今之保傅，非古之周公。
周公至圣，犹尚有累，何况事失其衷，不合天心者哉！
昔周公先遣伯禽守封于鲁，以义寒恩，宠不加后，故配天郊祀，三十余世。
霍光秉政，辅翼少主，修善进士，名为忠直，而尊崇其宗党，摧抑外戚，结贵据权，至坚至固，终没之后，受祸灭门。
方今师傅皆以伊、周之位，据贤保之任，以此思化，则功何不至？
不思其危，则祸何不到？
translation: 
Moreover, although the Han Dynasty system employed heroes and virtuous men, it was still necessary to use in-laws. In this way, kinship and distance were intertwined, and gaps could be closed. This was a method used to install ancestral temples and restructure the country.
Now the Feng and Wei clans are innocent and have been deposed for a long time without being hired, or they are far away in remote and remote areas and are not as good as the common people. This is not the intention of loving, loyal and filial servants to the emperor.
Those who are human beings will naturally have justice. No matter whether they are the most noble or the most humble, their power will not disapprove of each other. Therefore, people are not wise and foolish, and everyone will resent them. Traitors and traitors can act very conveniently, and it is difficult to predict changes that are not hidden.
The guardian who tutors the sons of the emperor today is not the Duke of Zhou in ancient times.
The Duke of Zhou is the most holy person, yet he is still involved, let alone some things that are out of his original intention and inconsistent with Heaven's will?
In the past, the Duke of Zhou first sent Bo Qin to the state of Lu to maintain the title, in order to sever the relationship between father and son, and to cut off the favor with loyalty, so that his respect and favor would not be extended to future generations. Therefore, Lu thought that Duke Zhou was a descendant of the great sage, and worshiped him in the suburbs, just like the emperor's gift, for more than thirty generations.
Huo Guang was responsible for the affairs of the government, assisted the young Emperor Zhao, cultivated good government, and promoted talents. On the surface, he was very loyal. However, he relied on his clan, suppressed his relatives, and made friends with powerful people to monopolize the government. After Huo Guang's death, his son rebelled against the Huo family and was exterminated.
Today's masters all use the power of Yi Yin and Zhou Gong to hold the great responsibility of being virtuous and protecting the country, and they use this to think about education. So what can't they achieve?
If the danger is not considered, then why can't the disaster reach it?


Chunk 2: 
original: 
损益之际，孔父攸叹，持满之戒，老氏所慎。
盖功冠天下者不安，威震人主者不全。
今承衰乱之后，继重敝之世，公家屈竭，赋敛重数，苛吏夺其时，贪夫侵其财，百姓困乏，疾疫夭命。
盗贼群辈，且以万数，军行众止，窃号自立，攻犯京师，燔烧县邑，至乃讹言积弩入宫，宿卫惊惧。
自汉兴以来，诚未有也。
国家微弱，奸谋不禁，六极之效，危于累卵。
王者承天顺地，典爵主刑，不敢以天官私其宗，不敢以天罚轻其亲。
陛下宜遂圣明之德，昭然觉悟，远述帝王之迹，近遵孝文之业，差五品之属，纳至亲之序，亟遣使者征中山太后，置之别官，令时朝见。
又召冯、卫二族，裁与冗职，使得执戟，亲奉宿卫，以防未然之符，以抑患祸之端，上安社稷，下全保傅，内和亲戚，外绝邪谋。书奏，莽令元后下诏曰： 刚听言僻经妄说，违背大义。其罢归田里。
后莽篡位，刚遂避地河西，转入巴、蜀，往来二十许年。
及隗嚣据陇右，欲背汉而附公孙述。
刚说之曰： 愚闻人所归者天所与，人所畔者天所去也。
伏念本朝躬圣德，举义兵，龚行天罚，所当必摧，诚天之所福，非人力也。
translation: 
Regarding the relationship between loss and benefit, Confucius also sighed. If you maintain too much, it will overturn. This is something I am very cautious and vigilant about.
Because those who have the most merit in the world are uneasy, and those whose prestige shocks the emperor are not safe.
This is a time of great destruction following the decline and chaos. The country's financial resources are exhausted, taxes are heavy, abusive officials interfere with the farming season, greedy husbands usurp the property, the people are impoverished, and diseases are prevalent and people die prematurely.
Groups of thieves often gathered more than ten thousand people. They raised an army and marched, but stopped with the crowd. They established their own ranks, attacked the capital, burned counties and towns, and even rumored that crossbow arrows were fired into the palace, which frightened the guards in the palace.
This has never happened since the establishment of the Han Dynasty.
The country is weak, but treachery cannot be stopped, and the effectiveness of the six poles pointed out in the book of ministers is in danger.
The king obeys the heaven and the earth, controls the officials and presides over the criminal law, and dares not use high-ranking officials to privately consecrate his relatives, and dare not use heaven's punishment to alleviate his relatives.
Your Majesty should obey the sage's virtues, be enlightened, follow the emperor's path when far away, and abide by the imperial career of Emperor Xiaowen when near, give alms to the teachings of Wuchang, accept close relatives, immediately send envoys to welcome the Empress Dowager Zhongshan, put her in a separate palace, and go to court regularly.
He also recalled the Feng and Wei tribes and granted them casual positions so that they could hold halberds and serve as bodyguards in person to prevent trouble in the bud. Safeguard the country at the top, protect Fu at the bottom, harmonize with relatives internally, and eliminate evil plots externally. After the book was submitted, Wang Mang ordered Empress Yuan to issue an edict saying: "What Shen Tugang said is deviant from the scriptures and goes against the principles of justice. He should be dismissed from office and go home."
Later, Wang Mang usurped the throne, and Shentu just fled to Hexi and transferred to Bashu, where he stayed for more than 20 years.
When Wei Xiao occupied Longyou, he wanted to betray the Han and submit to Gongsun Shu.
Shentu Gang said to Kaixiao: I heard that where people return, Heaven gives them to people, and when they rebel, Heaven leaves them.
I think that Emperor Guangwu of this dynasty practiced holy virtues, raised righteous soldiers, and respected heaven's punishment. He was invincible wherever he went. This is really a blessing from heaven and cannot be achieved by human power.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
将军本无尺土，孤立一隅，宜推诚奉顺，与朝并力，上应天心，下酬人望，为国立功，可以永年。
嫌疑之事，圣人所绝。
以将军之威重，远在千里，动作举措，可不慎与？
今玺书数到，委国归信，欲与将军共同吉凶。
布衣相与，尚有没身不负然诺之信，况于万乘者哉！
今何畏何利，久疑如是？
卒有非常之变，上负忠孝，下愧当世。
夫未至豫言，固常为虚，及其已至，又无所及，是以忠言至谏，希得为用。
诚愿反复愚老之言。
嚣不纳，遂畔从述。
建武七年，诏书征刚。
刚将归，与嚣书曰： 愚闻专己者孤，拒谏者塞，孤塞之政，亡国之风也。
虽有明圣之姿，犹屈己从众，故虑无遗策，举无过事。
夫圣人不以独见为明，而以万物为心。
顺人者昌，逆人者亡，此古今之所共也。
将军以布衣为乡里所推，廊庙之计，既不豫定，动军发众，又不深料。
translation: 
A general has no land and is isolated in a corner. He should treat each other with sincerity and obedience, and work together with the court. Above, he should obey the will of heaven, below, he should pay attention to people's expectations. He should make contributions to the country and live forever.
A saint will not do anything suspicious.
With the prestige of a general, even though he is thousands of miles away, how can he not be cautious in his actions?
Now the seals have been issued several times, entrusting the country to show its trust, hoping to share good and bad luck with the general.
When ordinary people work together, they still have the trust of not breaking their promises until death, let alone a monarch of ten thousand chariots!
What are you afraid of and thinking about now, why are you so undecided?
Once there is an extraordinary change, the superior will be unfaithful and filial, and the inferior will be ashamed of the world.
When the prophecy does not arrive, it is of course empty words, but once it arrives, it is too late, so the words of advice are true and I hope they will be accepted.
May you think over and over again about my criticism.
Wei Xiao refused to accept it, and finally rebelled against Han and followed Gongsun Shu.
In the seventh year of Jianwu, there was an edict to conquer Shen Tugang.
Just after Shentu returned, he wrote to Kaixiao again: I heard that people who insist on their own way are isolated, and people who refuse to accept advice are easy to get blocked. Isolated and blocked politics are the harbinger of national destruction.
Although he has the qualifications of a wise sage, he still has to submit to the opinions of the public, so that he can be thoughtful and have no unintended plans, and his actions are appropriate and without wrongdoing.
The sage does not regard his own unique opinion as wisdom, but regards all things as his heart.
Those who obey others will prosper, and those who go against others will perish. This is a truth common to both ancient and modern times.
The general was recommended by the village as a commoner. When he started the army, he had no predetermined plan. After he mobilized the army, he had no foresight.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
今东方政教日睦，百姓平安，而西州发兵，人人忧忧，骚动惶惧，莫敢正言，群众疑惑，人怀顾望。
非徒无精锐之心，其患无所不至。
夫物穷则变生，事急则计易，其势然也。
夫离道德，逆人情，而能有国有家者，古今未有也。
将军素以忠孝显闻，是以士大夫不远千里，慕乐德义。
今苟欲决意徼幸，此何如哉？
夫天所祐者顺，人所助者信。
如未蒙祐助，令小人受涂地之祸，毁坏终身之德，败乱君臣之节，污伤父子之恩，众贤破胆，可不慎哉！
嚣不纳。
刚到，拜侍御史，迁尚书令。
光武尝欲出游，刚以陇蜀未平，不宜宴安逸豫。
谏不见听，遂以头轫乘舆轮，帝遂为止。
时内外群官，多帝自选举，加以法理严察，职事过苦，尚书近臣，乃至捶扑牵曳于前，群臣莫敢正言。
刚每辄极谏，又数言皇太子宜时就东宫，简任贤保，以成其德，帝并不纳。
以数切谏失旨，数年，出为平阴令。
translation: 
Nowadays, political and religious relations in the East are getting closer and closer, and the people are safe. However, when troops are sent to Xizhou, everyone is worried, turbulent and afraid, and dare not speak out. The masses are doubtful and worried.
Not only does it lack the spirit of excellence and enterprising spirit, but its disasters are everywhere.
When things are poor, accidents will happen. When things are urgent, plans are easy to form. It is caused by the situation.
There is no one who can have a country and a family by deviating from morality and violating human feelings, in ancient and modern times.
Generals have always been famous for their loyalty and filial piety, which is why scholar-bureaucrats come from thousands of miles away to admire and share their virtues.
Now if you decide to act by chance, what else is left of loyalty, filial piety, virtue and justice?
God bless you with prosperity, and people who help you are trustworthy.
If there is no help from God, the common people will suffer misfortunes, destroy their lifelong virtues, ruin the integrity of monarchs and ministers, tarnish the kindness of father and son, and destroy the courage of all sages, so we must be cautious!
Wei Xiao didn't accept it.
When Shentu first arrived in Luoyang, he was appointed as the imperial censor, and then moved to the ministerial order.
Guangwu once wanted to travel, but Shentu just thought that Longshu had not been pacified yet, so it was not suitable to have a leisurely meal.
When his opinion was not accepted, he put his head on the wheel, and Guangwu stopped the tour.
At that time, many officials at home and abroad were mostly elected by the emperor himself. They were subject to strict legal supervision. Their work was too hard, and the ministers and close ministers were even whipped and dragged forward. No ministers dared to speak honestly.
Shen Tugang tried his best to dissuade him, and said many times that the crown prince should enter the East Palace and appoint virtuous guardians to achieve his virtue, but Guangwu refused to accept it.
Because he repeatedly remonstrated against the will, a few years later, he was released as the Pingyin Order.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
复征拜太中大夫，以病去官，卒于家。
鲍永字君长，上党屯留人也。
父宣，哀帝时任司隶校尉，为王莽所杀。
永少有志操，习欧阳《尚书》。
事后母至孝，妻尝于母前叱狗，而永即去之。
初为郡功曹。
莽以宣不附己，欲不其子孙。
都尉路平承望风旨，规欲害永。
太守苟谏拥护，召以为吏，常置府中，永因数为谏陈兴复汉室，剪灭篡逆之策。
谏每戒永曰： 君长几事不密，祸倚人门。
永感其言。
及谏卒，自送丧归扶风，路平遂收永弟升。
太守赵兴到，闻乃叹曰： 我受汉茅土，不能立节，而鲍宣死之，岂可害其子也！
敕县出升，复署永功曹。
时，有矫称侍中止传舍者，兴欲谒之。
永疑其诈，谏不听而出，兴遂驾往，永乃拔佩刀截马当匈，乃止，后数日，莽诏书果下捕矫称者，永由是知名。举秀才，不应。
更始二年征，再迁尚书仆射，行大将军事，持节将兵，安集河东、并州、朔部，得自置偏裨，辄行军法。
永至河东，因击青犊，大破之，更始封为中阳侯。
永虽为将率，而车服敝素，为道路所识。
translation: 
Later, he was recalled to worship as Taizhong doctor. He resigned from his official position due to illness and died at home.
◆Bao Yongzhuan Bao Yong, courtesy name Junchang, was a native of Tunliu, Shangdang County.
His father, Bao Xuan, was the captain of Sili School at the time of Emperor Ai and was killed by Wang Mang.
When Bao Yong was young, he was ambitious and studied Ouyang's "Shang Shu".
He was very filial to his stepmother. His wife once scolded the dog in front of his stepmother, so Bao Yong divorced his wife immediately.
At first he was a county meritorious official.
Wang Mang thought that Bao Xuan would not join him and wanted to kill his descendants.
Duwei Luping followed Wang Mang's wishes and formulated a plan to kill Bao Yong.
The prefect Gou Jian protected him, called him an official, and allowed him to live in the mansion permanently. Therefore, Bao Yong repeatedly stated the strategy of reviving the Han Dynasty and cutting off the treason for Gou Jian.
Gou Jian repeatedly warned Bao Yong: If the ruler reveals the secret, the whole family will be killed.
Bao Yong was grateful for his persuasion.
After Gou Jian passed away, Bao Yong returned to Fufeng Luping to attend his funeral, so Bao Yong's younger brother Bao Sheng was put on trial.
When the new governor Zhao Xing arrived, he sighed after hearing these things: I accepted the grant from the Han Dynasty and could not establish a festival. Bao Xuan was killed, how could I frame his son?
The county magistrate was ordered to release Bao Sheng and restore Bao Yong to his position of meritorious service.
At that time, there was a person pretending to be Shizhong living in Chuanshe, and Zhao Xing wanted to pay him a visit.
Bao Yong suspected that he was lying and stopped Zhao Xing, but Zhao Xing refused to listen.
Zhao Xing drove there, and Bao Yong drew his sword and cut the horse in the chest before the carriage stopped. A few days later, Wang Mang issued an edict to search for those who pretended to be servants, and Bao Yong became famous. It is inappropriate to recommend him as a scholar. In the second year of Gengshi's reign, Bao Yong was recruited, and then moved to the post of Shangshu Pushe, acting as the general's military affairs. He commanded the troops with Fu Jie, and assembled the Hedong, Bingzhou, and Shuo tribes, and authorized him to appoint partial generals and exercise military law.
Bao Yong went to Hedong, led an army to attack Qingdu, and defeated him. He was granted the title of Marquis of Zhongyang.
Although Bao Yong was a general, his carriage and clothing were simple, and people on the road called him Bao Shangshu's soldiers and horses.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
时赤眉害更始，三辅道绝。
光武即位，遣谏议大夫储大伯，持节征永诣行在所。
永疑不从，乃收系大伯，遣使驰至长安。
既知更始已亡，乃发丧，出大伯等，封上将军列侯印绶，悉罢兵，但幅巾与诸将及同心客百余人诣河内。
帝见永，问曰： 卿众所在？
永离席叩头曰： 臣事更始，不能令全，诚惭以其众幸富贵，故悉罢之。
帝曰： 卿言大！
而意不悦。
时攻怀未拔，帝谓永曰： 我攻怀三日而兵不下，关东畏服御，可且将故人自往城下譬之。
即拜永谏议大夫。
至怀，乃说更始河内太守，于是开城而降。
帝大喜，赐永洛阳商里宅，固辞不受。
时，董宪裨将屯兵于鲁，侵害百姓，乃拜永为鲁郡太守。
永到，击讨，大破之，降者数千人。
唯别帅彭丰、虞休、皮常等各千余人，称 将军 ，不胀下。
顷之，孔子阙里无故荆棘自除，从讲堂至于里门。
永异之，谓府丞及鲁令曰： 方今危急而阙里自开，斯岂夫子欲令太守行礼，助吾诛无道邪？
乃会人众，修乡射之礼，请丰等共会观视，欲因此禽之。
丰等亦欲图永，乃持牛酒劳飨，而潜挟兵器。
永觉之，手格杀丰等，禽破党与。
帝嘉其略，封为关内侯，迁杨州牧。
时南土尚多寇暴，永以吏人痍伤之后，乃缓其衔辔，示诛强横而镇抚其余，百姓安之。
translation: 
At this time, Chimei killed Gengshi, and the road to Sanfu was blocked.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he sent Uncle Chu, an official to advise him, and summoned Bao Yong to pay homage to him at his residence.
Bao Yongyou was suspicious of disobedience, so he imprisoned Uncle Chu and sent another envoy to Chang'an to inquire.
When he knew for sure that Gengshi was dead, he declared mourning, released Uncle Chu and others, and was awarded the title of general, Liehou Yinshou. He dismissed all the troops and arrived in Hanoi with the generals and more than a hundred fellow travelers without their heads.
The emperor saw Bao Yong and asked: "Where are your subordinates?"
Bao Yong left his seat and kowtowed and said: "I serve Gengshi, but I can't protect his safety. I am really ashamed to use my subordinates to invite wealth and honor, so they are all dismissed."
The emperor said: You are talking nonsense!
And feel unhappy inside.
At that time, Huai County could not be captured. The emperor said to Bao Yong: I have been attacking Huai County for three days but cannot capture it. Guandong fears and respects you. As an old friend, I can go to the city in person to inform him.
Then he worshiped Bao Yong as the admonishing doctor.
When Bao Yong arrived in Huai, he persuaded the governor of Gengshi Hanoi and surrendered to the city.
The emperor was overjoyed and rewarded Bao Yong with a residence in Shangshangli, Luoyang, but Bao Yong refused.
At this time, General Dong Xianpi stationed troops in Lu and invaded the people, so he worshiped Bao Yong as the governor of Lu County.
Bao Yong arrived, attacked and defeated them, and thousands of people surrendered.
But the other commanders, Peng Feng, Yu Xiu, and Pi Chang, each with more than a thousand men, claimed to be "generals" and refused to surrender.
Soon, the thorns in Confucius's palace were cleared for no reason, from the lecture hall to the inner gate.
Bao Yong felt strange and said to Fu Cheng and Lu Ling: "Now that the crisis is critical, the gate opens. Is this because Confucius wants me, the prefect, to salute and help me punish the unjust?"
So everyone gathered together to practice the ritual of local shooting. Please invite Peng Feng and others to watch and prepare to capture Peng Feng and others.
Peng Feng and others also wanted to murder Bao Yong, so they prepared cattle and wine for the feast, and secretly carried weapons.
Bao Yong found out and killed Peng Feng and others with his own hands, and captured his gang members.
The emperor praised his strategy, made him a Marquis of Guannei, and moved him to Yangzhou as a Mu.
At this time, there were still a lot of violent bandits in the southern land. After the officials and the people were injured, Bao Yong relaxed the law to control the movement of people. He issued notices only to punish the violent ones, and calmed and appeased the people who threatened them, so the people settled down.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
会遭母忧，去官，悉以财产与孤弟子。
建武十一年，征为司隶校尉。
帝叔父赵王良尊戚贵重，永以事劾良大不敬，由是朝廷肃然，莫不戒慎。
乃辟扶风鲍恢为都官从事，恢亦抗直不避强御。
帝常曰： 贵戚且宜敛手，以避二鲍。
其见惮如此。
永行县到霸陵，路经更始墓，引车入陌，从事谏止之。
永曰： 亲北面事人，宁有过墓不拜！虽以获罪，司隶所不避也。
遂下拜，哭尽哀而去。
西至扶风，椎牛上苟谏冢。
帝闻之，意不平，问公卿曰： 奉使如此何如？
太中大夫张湛对曰： 仁者行之宗，忠者义之主也。
仁不遗旧，忠不忘君，行之高者也。
帝意乃释。
后大司徒韩歆坐事，永固请之不得，以此忤帝意，出为东海相。
坐度田事不实，被征，诸郡守多下狱。
永至成皋，诏书逆拜为兗州牧，便道之官。
视事三年，病卒。
子昂，字叔雅，有孝义节行。
translation: 
When his mother passed away, he resigned and distributed all his property to his disciples.
In the 11th year of Jianwu's reign, he was appointed as Sili Xiaowei.
The emperor's uncle, King Liu Liang of Zhao, was a respected relative. Bao Yong's impeachment of Liu Liang was considered disrespectful, so the court was in awe of him and everyone was vigilant and cautious.
So Fufeng Bao Hui was recruited to serve as an official in the capital, but Hui resisted and did not avoid violence.
Emperor Chang said: Noble relatives should restrain themselves to avoid the second wave.
It's so terrifying.
Bao Yongxing County went to Baling, passing Gengshi Tomb, and drove to the Northeast Cemetery to persuade him not to go.
Bao Yong said: I once went to the north to serve Gengshi. How could I not not worship the tomb? Even though I was guilty of this, I did not avoid it.
So he bowed down, wept bitterly and left in mourning.
Go to Fufeng in the west, kill the cattle and go to the tomb to worship them.
When the emperor heard this, he felt a little unsatisfied and asked the minister: "Why did the envoy do this?"
Taizhong doctor Zhang Zhan replied: Benevolence is the foundation of behavior, and loyalty is the backbone of righteousness.
It is a very noble act to be benevolent and never forget the past and to be loyal and never forget you.
The emperor's opinion then dissipated.
Later, the great Situ Han Xin was dismissed from office because of his outspokenness. Bao Yonggu was not able to plead guilty, so he violated the emperor's will and went out to serve as the Prime Minister of the East China Sea.
In addition, due to inaccurate land surveying, they were expropriated and many county guards were imprisoned.
When Bao Yong arrived in Chenggao, an edict was issued to welcome Bao Yong as the shepherd of Yanzhou, so he took office on the way.
He served as state pastor for three years and died of illness.
The historian commented: Bao Yong was loyal to his old master, so he could serve the new master.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
初，德被病数年，昂俯伏左右，衣不缓带；及处丧，毁瘠三年，抱负乃行；服阕，遂潜于墓次，不关时务。
举孝廉，辟公府，连征不至，卒于家。
郅恽字君章，汝南西平人也。
年十二失母，居丧过礼。
及长，理《韩诗》、《严氏春秋》，明天文历数。
王莽时，寇贼群发，恽乃仰占玄象，叹谓友人曰： 方今镇、岁、荧惑并在汉分翼、轸之域，去而复来，汉必再受命，福归有德。
如有顺天发策者，必成大功。
时左队大夫逯素好士，恽说之曰： 当今上天垂象，智者以昌，愚者以亡。
昔伊尹自鬻辅商，立功全人。
恽窃不逊，敢希伊尹之踪，应天人之变。
明府傥不疑逆，俾成天德。
奇之，使署为吏。
恽不谒，曰： 昔文王拔吕尚于渭滨，高宗礼傅说于岩筑，桓公取管仲于射钩，故能立弘烈，就元勋。
未闻师相仲父，而可为吏位也。
translation: 
He was ashamed that his subordinates were favored by Guangwu, so he could be favored greatly. As for the speaker's sincerity, but the listener does not understand it, isn't this the words that praise Gou Jin, which are easy to accept, but the words that are upright and contrary to people's will, which are difficult for people to understand?
If you can explain the advantages and disadvantages according to the principles, and follow the principles of justice with a straight heart, that is the measure of a gentleman.
◆Zhiyun Biography Zhiyun was named Junzhang and was a native of Xiping, Runan County.
I lost my mother when I was twelve years old, and I mourned and mourned.
When he grew up, he could understand "Han Shi", "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals", and understand the Chinese literature.
During the reign of Wang Mang, bandits often occurred. Zhiyun looked up at Xuanxiang and sighed to his friends: Now Zhenxing, Suixing, and Yinghuo are all in the area where Han divided Yi Zhen. If they go and come back, Han will definitely be ordered again, and the virtuous will enjoy the blessings.
Anyone who obeys God's will and expresses his strategy will achieve great success.
At that time, the Zuo team official had always liked scholars, so Zhi Yun said to him: The signs shown in today's astronomy can be used by wise men to prosper and fools to perish.
In the past, Yi Yin sold himself to assist Shang Tang, and finally made great contributions to everyone.
I, Zhi Yun, do not know what I am capable of, but dare to follow Yi Yin's path and adapt to the changes of heaven and man.
If Ming Gong does not doubt, he will achieve heavenly virtue.
He was surprised and appointed him as an official temporarily.
Zhi Yun refused to pay his respects and said: "In the past King Wen of Zhou promoted Lu Wang to the shore of the Wei River, Gaozong visited Fu Yue at Yanzhu, Duke Huan of Qi was shot by Guan Zhong, but he was able to regard him as his prime minister, so he was able to achieve great achievements and become a hero."
I haven't heard that Lu Wangfu said that Guan Zhong could be appointed as an official.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
非窥天者不可与图远。
君不授骥以重任，骥亦俯首裹足而去耳。
遂不受署。
西至长安，乃上书王莽曰：臣闻天地重其人，惜其物，故运机衡，垂日月，含元包一，甄陶品类，显表纪世，图录豫设。
汉历久长，孔为赤制，不使愚惑，残人乱时。
智者顺以成德，愚者逆以取害，神器有命，不可虚获。
上天垂戒，欲悟陛下，令就臣位，转祸为福。
刘氏享天永命，陛下顺节盛衰，取之以天，还之以天，可谓知命矣。
若不早图，是不免于窃位也。
且尧、舜不以天显自与，故禅天下，陛下何贪非天显以自累也？
天为陛下严父，臣为陛下孝子。
父教不可废，子谏不可拒，惟陛下留神。
莽大怒，即收系诏狱，劾以大逆。
犹以恽据经谶，难即害之，使黄门近臣胁恽，令自告狂病恍忽，不觉所言。
恽乃瞋目詈曰： 所陈皆天文圣意，非狂人所能造。
translation: 
People who are not voyeurs cannot make long-term plans with him.
You refused to give Ji a heavy responsibility, so he bowed his head and left.
So he refused to accept the appointment.
When he arrived in Chang'an from the west, he wrote to Wang Mang, saying: I heard that the heaven and earth value their people and cherish their things, so I used the Big Dipper to set the sun and the moon. The heaven and earth created objects, just like the potters who made many products, and the sky and the Yu set up the illustrated books to show the age of the emperor.
The Han Dynasty had a long history, and Confucius was born to be a red system, not to make people confused and to make others confused.
Smart people will be virtuous if they obey, while stupid people will do harm to them. The throne is determined by fate and should not be obtained in vain.
God has sent down a warning to make His Majesty wake up and return to his position as a minister, so as to turn misfortunes into blessings.
The Liu family was appointed by Heaven, and their destiny is long-lasting. Your Majesty should follow the ups and downs of the times, take what you have from Heaven, and give back to Heaven. It can be said that you know your destiny.
If we don't take measures early, it will be stealing the throne.
Moreover, Yao and Shun did not rely on heaven's manifestations to reconcile themselves, but Zen was located in humans. Why would your majesty covet a position that is not heaven's manifestation and harm yourself?
Heaven is your Majesty's strict father, and I am your Majesty's filial son.
The father's teaching cannot be abolished, and the son's advice cannot be rejected. Please pay attention to your majesty.
Wang Mang was furious and was about to arrest Zhi Yun and impeach him for the crime of treason and injustice.
However, because what Zhi Yun said was based on the prophecies, it was difficult to harm him immediately, because Huangmen's close officials threatened Zhi Yun and asked him to complain that he was in a trance during the attack of madness and was talking nonsense for a while.
Zhi Yun raised his eyebrows and cursed: "What I said is the sacred meaning of astronomy and cannot be fabricated by a madman."


Chunk 10: 
original: 
遂系须冬，会赦得出，乃与同郡郑敬南遁苍梧。
建武三年，又至庐江，因遇积弩将军傅俊东徇扬州。
俊素闻恽名，乃礼请之，上为将兵长史，授以军政。
恽乃誓众曰： 无掩人不备，穷人于厄，不得断人支体，裸人形骸，放淫妇女。
俊军士犹发冢陈尸，掠夺百姓。
恽谏俊曰： 昔文王不忍露白骨，武王不以天下易一人之命，故能获天地之应，克商如林之旅。
将军如何不师法文王，而犯逆天地之禁，多伤人害物，虐及枯尸，取罪神明？
今不谢天改政，无以全命。
愿将军亲率士卒，收伤葬死，哭所残暴，以明非将军本意也。
从之，百姓悦服，所向皆下。
七年，俊还京师，而上论之。
恽耻以军功取位，遂辞归乡里。
县令卑身崇礼，请以为门下掾。
恽友人董子张者，父先为乡人所害。
及子张病，将终，恽往候之。
translation: 
So he was imprisoned until winter. When he was released from prison under the pardon order, he and Zheng Jingnan from the same county fled to Cangwu.
In the third year of Jianwu's reign, he went to Lujiang again and met Fu Jun, the general of Jinu, who was marching eastward to Yangzhou.
Fu Junsu heard of Zhi Yun's name, hired him with courtesy, respected him as the general and commander of the army, and granted him military and political power.
Zhi Yun then swore to the people: Do not attack people when they are unprepared, do not trap people in disasters, do not cut off people's limbs and expose their bodies, and do not rape women.
But Fu Jun's sergeants still excavated the tombs, exposed the corpses, and plundered the people.
Zhi Yun advised Fu Jun, saying: In the past, King Wen of Zhou could not bear to show his bones, and King Wu of Zhou would not sacrifice anyone's life for the sake of the world, so he was able to receive retribution from heaven and earth and defeat the Yin Shang Rulin army.
How could the general not follow the example of King Wen, but violate the prohibitions of heaven and earth, injure people and objects, torture dead bodies, and offend the gods?
If we don't change the government now, we can't save our lives.
It was hoped that the general would personally lead his soldiers, take in the wounded, bury the dead, and cry bitterly to comfort those who were brutalized, to prove that looting the tombs was not the general's original intention.
Fu Jun obeyed, and the people were convinced and obeyed.
In the seventh year of Jianwu's reign, Fu Jun returned to the capital and discussed it.
Zhiyun felt ashamed that he had obtained an official position through military merit, so he resigned and returned to his hometown.
The county magistrate bows down and respects the courtesy. Please consider it as a disciple.
Zhiyun's friend Dong Zizhang's father was killed by a villager.
Dong Zizhang fell ill and before his death, Zhi Yun went to visit him.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
子张垂殁，视恽，歔欷不能言。
恽曰： 吾知子不悲天命，而痛仇不复也。
子在，吾忧而不手；子亡，吾手而不忧也。
子张但目击而已。
恽即起，将客遮仇人，取其头以示子张。
子张见而气绝。
恽因而诣县，以状自首。
令应之迟，恽曰： 为友报仇，吏之私也。奉法不阿，君之义也。
亏君以生，非臣节也。
趋出就狱。
令跣而追恽，不及，遂自至狱，令拔刃自向以要恽曰： 子不从我出，敢以死明心。
恽得此乃出，因病去。
久之，太守欧阳歙请为功曹。
汝南旧俗，十月飨会，百里内县皆赍牛酒到府宴饮。
时临飨礼讫，歙教曰： 西部督邮繇延，天资忠贞，禀性公方，摧破奸凶，不严而理。
今与众儒共论延功，显之于朝。太守敬嘉厥休，牛酒养德。
主簿读教，户曹引延受赐。
恽于下坐愀然前曰： 司正举觥，以君之罪，告谢于天。
translation: 
Dong Zizhang was about to die. When he saw Zhi Yun, he was sobbing and unable to speak.
Zhi Yun said: I know you don't feel sorry for your fate, but hate that you can't avenge yourself.
When you are alive, I will think about this matter but there is no need for me to take action; when you are not here, I will kill your enemies for you.
Dong Zizhang just looked at him.
Zhi Yun immediately jumped up, led the guests to intercept and kill the enemy, and took the enemy's head to show his son Zhang.
Zizhang died when he saw it.
Zhi Yun therefore went to the county and committed suicide.
The county magistrate was slow to respond. Zhi Yun said: "It is my personal duty to avenge my friends. It is your loyalty to follow the law and not be selfish."
It is not the righteousness of a minister to live at the expense of the king.
So he left the court and went to prison.
The magistrate chased Zhi Yun barefoot, but failed, so he rushed to the prison himself. The magistrate drew his sword and threatened Zhi Yun, saying: "If you don't come out with me, I will kill myself to show my intentions."
Zhi Yun concluded from this and left due to illness.
A long time later, the prefect Ouyang She asked him to serve as a meritorious officer.
It is an old custom in Runan that during the October feast, all counties within a hundred miles will bring cattle and wine to the mansion for a banquet.
After the feast ceremony, Ouyang She taught: Yaoyan, the governor of the west, is naturally loyal and loyal, with a just and suitable temperament. He can destroy evil and evil, and his political affairs are not strict and reasonable.
Today, I discuss Yao Yan's merits with other scholars and show them to the court. The prefect respects and commends his achievements, and specially feeds his merits with cattle wine.
The master of the book reads the teachings, and Hucao Yin Yaoyan accepts the reward.
Zhi Yun changed his face when he was sitting down and said: "The officiant raises his glass to express his gratitude to heaven for your sin."


Chunk 12: 
original: 
案延资性贪邪，外方内员，朋党构奸，罔上害人，所在荒乱，怨慝并作。
明府以恶为善，股肱以直从曲，此既无君，又复无臣，恽敢再拜奉觥。
歙色惭动，不知所言。
门下掾郑敬进曰： 君明臣直，功曹言切，明府德也。可无受觥哉？
歙意少解，曰： 实歙罪也，敬奉觥。
恽乃免寇谢曰： 昔虞舜辅尧，四罪咸服，谗言弗庸，孔任不行，故能作股肱，帝用有歌。
恽不忠，孔任是昭，豺虎从政，既陷诽谤，又露所言，罪莫重焉。请收恽、延，以明好恶。
歙曰： 是重吾过也。
遂不宴而罢。
恽归府，称病，延亦自退。
郑敬素与恽厚，见其言许歙，乃相招去，曰： 子廷争繇延，君犹不纳。
延今虽去，其势必还。
直心无讳，诚三代之道。
translation: 
According to Yao Yan's qualifications, he was corrupt and evil, upright on the outside but weak on the inside. He formed cliques for personal gain and became traitors, deceived his superiors and harmed the people. The place was filthy and disorderly, and he was full of resentment and evil.
The government treats evil as good, and the ministers follow the straight line. This means that there is no king and no ministers. Zhi Yun dares to worship and drink.
Ouyang She looked ashamed and didn't know how to respond.
Zheng Jingjin, a disciple at the door, said: "The king is wise and his ministers are upright in their words, and the words of the meritorious officials are sincere. This is the merit of the county governor. Can I not drink wine?"
Ouyang She felt a little more relieved and said: "This is really my fault. Please worship me respectfully."
Zhi Yun then took off his hat and apologized, saying: In the past, Yu Shun assisted Tang Yao and dealt with four unruly leaders, and the whole world was convinced. Without slander, the traitor will not work, so loyal ministers can be used as allies. There is a song in "Shang Shu" to praise him.
Zhi Yun's disloyalty made the treacherous and traitorous, and the greedy and sycophantic people like jackals and tigers entered politics. They not only slandered you, but also denounced Yao Yan's crime to the public. My crime is the worst. Please arrest me and Yao Yan together to clarify our likes and dislikes.
Ouyang She said: That would make my sin even more serious.
So they stopped the feast and left.
After Zhi Yun returned home, he asked for sick leave, and Yao Yan also left on his own.
Zheng Jing and Zhi Yun had always been very good friends. Seeing that his words offended Ouyang She, he invited Zhi Yun to see him and said, "Your court is arguing with Yao Yan, but the prefect has not accepted your opinion."
Although Yao Yan has left, he will definitely come back.
Not hiding one's honest heart is the right path for three generations.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
然道不同者不相为谋，吾不能忍见子有不容君之危，盍去之乎！
恽曰： 孟轲以强其君之所不能为忠，量其君之所不能为贼。
恽业已强之矣。障君于朝，既有其直，而不死职，罪也。
延退而恽又去，不可。
敬乃独隐于弋阳山中，居数月，歙果复召延，恽于是乃去，从敬止，渔钓自娱，留数十日。
恽志在从政，既乃喟然而叹，谓敬曰： 天生俊士，以为人也。鸟兽不可与同群，子从我为伊、吕乎？将为巢、许，而父老尧、舜乎？
敬曰： 吾足矣。
初从生步重华于南野，谓来归为松子，今幸得全躯树类，还奉坟墓，尽学问道，虽不从政，施之有政，是亦为政也。
吾年耄矣，安得从子？
子勉正性命，勿劳神以害生。
恽于是告别而去。
敬字次都，清志高世，光武连征不到。
恽遂客居江夏教授，郡举孝廉，为上东城门候。
帝尝出猎，车驾夜还，恽拒关不开。
帝令从者见面于门间。恽曰： 火明辽远 。
translation: 
However, people with different Taoist views cannot conspire. I can't bear to see you in danger of not being tolerated by the prefect. Why don't you leave here!
Zhi Yun said: Meng Ke is loyal to the things that are difficult for his ruler to do. If the ruler is benevolent, righteous, propriety and wise, and he says that he cannot do it, that is a treason against his ruler.
Zhi Yun had forced the prefect and blocked the cattle and wine that the prefect was going to reward Yao Yan. Since he had directly remonstrated with the prefect, it was a sin not to die in the line of duty.
Yao Yan has already retreated and I am leaving again. This is not allowed.
Zheng Jing then lived alone in Yiyang Mountain. A few months later, Ouyang She summoned Yao Yan again, and Zhi Yun left the county government and followed Zheng Jing's lead, where he enjoyed fishing and stayed for dozens of days.
Zhi Yun aspired to pursue a career in politics, so he sighed and said to Zheng Jing, "You are born handsome, and you were born for humans. You cannot live with birds and beasts for a long time. Should you and I be Yi Yin and Lu Wang, or should we be Xu You for Chao's father and regard Yao and Shun as our elders?"
Zheng Jing said: I am already satisfied.
Back then, I went with you to search for Yu and Shun in Cangwu. Now I have returned to my hometown to live in seclusion and travel from Chisongzi. Fortunately, I have all my family members and descendants to return to my hometown to pay homage to the tombs of my ancestors.
I am old, how can I follow you?
I hope you will work hard on government affairs, cherish life, and don't worry about harming living beings.
Zhi Yun then said goodbye and left.
Zheng Jing was Citu and had high ambitions. Guangwu called him several times but did not go.
Zhiyun then lived as a professor in Jiangxia, and was promoted by the county as Xiaolian and the Marquis of Shangdong City Gate.
The emperor once went hunting and drove his chariot back at night, but Zhiyun refused to accept him in seclusion.
The emperor ordered his followers to meet Zhi Yun in the gap between the doors. Zhi Yun said: The fire is still far away.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
遂不受诏。
帝乃回从东中门入。
明日，恽上书谏曰： 昔文王不敢槃于游田，以万人惟忧。
而陛下远猎山林，夜以继昼，其于社稷宗庙何？
暴虎冯河，未至之戒，诚小臣所窃忧也。
书奏，赐布百匹，贬东中门候为参封尉。
后令恽授皇太子《韩诗》，侍讲殿中。
及郭皇后废。恽乃言于帝曰： 臣闻夫妇之好，父不能得之于子，况臣能得之于君乎？
是臣所不敢言。
虽然，愿陛下念其可否之计，无令天下有议社稷而已。
帝曰： 恽善恕己量主，知我必不有所左右而轻天也。
后既废，而太子意不自安，恽乃说太子曰： 久处疑位，上违孝道，下近危殆。
昔高宗明君，吉甫贤臣，及有纤介，放逐孝子。
《春秋》之义，母以子贵。
太子宜因左右及诸皇子引愆退身，奉养母氏，以明圣教，不背所生。
太子从之，帝竟听许。
translation: 
So he didn't accept the order.
The emperor had no choice but to enter the city through the east middle gate in a roundabout way.
The next day, Zhi Yun wrote a letter to remonstrate: In the past, King Wen of Zhou did not dare to enjoy hunting. What worries me is the happiness and sorrow of the people.
And His Majesty went hunting in the mountains and forests, day and night, where did he put the safety of the Sheji Ancestral Temple?
Crossing the river on foot while fighting a tiger with bare hands, the admonition that it is difficult to take risks is what worries me the most.
After the letter was submitted, the emperor rewarded him with a hundred pieces of cloth and demoted the Marquis of Dongzhongmen to Shenfeng County to become a county captain.
Later, Zhi Yun was ordered to teach "Han Poetry" to the crown prince, and he gave the lecture in the palace.
When Empress Guo was deposed, Zhi Yun went to the emperor and said, "I heard that a good couple is a good couple. If a father cannot control his son, how can a minister control his king?"
I really don't dare to talk about it.
Although, I hope that your majesty, no matter whether you accept my words or not, just don't let people in the world talk about the country and the country.
The emperor said: Zhi Yun is good at restraining himself and being considerate of the Lord. He knows that I will not go against the grain and look down on the world.
Since Empress Guo was deposed, the prince could not feel at ease. Zhi Yun persuaded the prince: "To be in a position of suspicion for a long time is against filial piety for the superiors and very dangerous for the subordinates."
In the past, Gaozong was a wise king and Yin Jifu was a wise minister. But when they had a grudge, they exiled their filial son.
The meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is that mother is more precious than son.
The prince should take the blame and dismiss him for the sake of his left, right and other princes, support his mother, understand the holy teachings, and not betray what he was born to.
The prince obeyed, and the emperor also obeyed.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
恽再迁长沙太守。
先是，长沙有孝子古初，遭父丧未葬，邻人失火，初匍匐柩上，以身扞火，火为之灭。
恽甄异之，以为首举。
后坐事左转芒长，又免归，避地教授，著书八篇。以病卒。
translation: 
Zhi Yun moved to the post of governor of Changsha County.
There was a filial son named Guchu in Changsha. His father died but was not buried. There was a fire in his neighbor. Guchu crawled on his father's coffin and resisted the fire with his body, but the fire was extinguished.
Zhiyun was deeply surprised by the review and thought this was the first time he had done so.
Later, he was demoted as magistrate of Mang County due to some affairs, and then he was dismissed and released. Zhi Yun lived in seclusion and worked as a professor until his death. He wrote eight books and died of illness.


