Summary uses chunk [0, 2, 4, 12, 23]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
周公旦者，周武王弟也。
自文王在时，旦为子孝，笃仁，异于群子。
及武王即位，旦常辅翼武王，用事居多。
武王九年，东伐至盟津，周公辅行。
十一年，伐纣，至牧野，周公佐武王，作《牧誓》。
破殷，入商宫。
已杀纣，周公把大钺，召公把小钺，以夹武王，衅社，告纣之罪于天，及殷民。
释箕子之囚。
封纣子武庚禄父，使管叔、蔡叔傅之，以续殷祀。
遍封功臣同姓戚者。
封周公旦于少昊之虚曲阜，是为鲁公。
周公不就封，留佐武王。
武王克殷二年，天下未集，武王有疾，不豫，群臣惧，太公、召公乃缪卜。
周公曰： 未可以戚我先王。
周公于是乃自以为质，设三坛，周公北面立，戴璧秉圭，告于太王、王季、文王。
史策祝曰： 惟尔元孙王发，勤劳阻疾。
若尔三王是有负子之责于天，以旦代王发之身。
translation: 
Duke Dan of Zhou was the younger brother of King Wu of Zhou.
When King Wen was still alive, Dan, as his son, was very filial, loyal and kind, better than his other brothers.
When King Wu came to the throne, Dan often assisted King Bi Wu and handled many government affairs.
In the ninth year of King Wu's reign, he personally marched eastward to Mengjin, and Duke Zhou accompanied the army to assist him.
In the eleventh year, King Wu crusaded against Yin Zhou and the army reached Muye. Duke Zhou assisted King Wu and issued the "Oath of Mu" to mobilize the battle.
The Zhou army broke through the capital of Yin and entered the palace of Yin.
After killing Yin Zhou, Duke Zhou held a big axe, and Duke Zhao held a small axe. They flanked King Wu on their left and right, held the ceremony of provoking the community, and announced King Zhou's guilt to heaven and the people of Yin Dynasty.
Release the imprisoned Jizi.
Wu Genglu, the son of King Zhou, was granted the title of Father, and ordered Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai to assist him in order to continue the sacrifices of Yin.
After that, he was awarded the title of meritorious officials and relatives of the Zhou royal family.
The Duke of Zhou was granted the title of Duke of Lu in Qufu, Shaohao's former ruins.
However, Duke Zhou was not allowed to go to his own kingdom, but stayed in Chaoyan to assist King Wu.
In the second year after King Wu defeated Yin Zhou, the unification of the world had not yet succeeded. King Wu fell ill and was unwell, and the ministers were frightened. Taigong and Zhaogong wanted to perform divination piously to know good and bad luck.
Duke Zhou said: "You cannot make our late king worry and grieve."
Duke Zhou then used himself as a pledge and set up three altars. Standing facing the north, holding a jade and a gui, he prayed to the spirits of King Tai, Wang Ji and King Wen.
The historian was ordered to write a congratulatory message saying: Your eldest grandson, King Zhou, will be sent to you. Hard work leads to illness.
If the three former kings owe God a son, please send Dan instead of Zhou Wangfa.

summary:
summary line 0: Duke Dan of Zhou, younger brother of King Wu of Zhou, was known for his filial piety and virtue. He assisted King Wu in military campaigns, including the conquest of Yin Zhou at Muye. After Yin Zhou's death, Duke Zhou participated in ceremonies announcing King Zhou's guilt, released the imprisoned Jizi, and helped grant territories to various nobles. Though granted the title of Duke of Lu in Qufu, he remained in the capital to assist King Wu.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
周公恐天下闻武王崩而畔，周公乃践阼代成王摄行政当国。
管叔及其群弟流言于国曰： 周公将不利于成王。
周公乃告太公望、召公奭曰： 我之所以弗辟而摄行政者，恐天下畔周，无以告我先王太王、王季、文王。
三王之忧劳天下久矣，于今而后成。
武王蚤终，成王少，将以成周，我所以为之若此。
于是卒相成王，而使其子伯禽代就封于鲁。
周公戒伯禽曰： 我文王之子，武王之弟，成王之叔父，我于天下亦不贱矣。
然我一沐三捉发，一饭三吐哺，起以待士，犹恐失天下之贤人。
子之鲁，慎无以国骄人。
管、蔡、武庚等果率淮夷而反。
周公乃奉成王命，兴师东伐，作《大诰》。
遂诛管叔，杀武庚，放蔡叔。
translation: 
Duke Zhou was worried that people in the world would betray the court when they heard about King Wu's death, so he ascended the throne to handle government affairs on behalf of King Cheng and preside over the power of the country.
Guan Shu and his brothers spread rumors in the country: Duke Zhou will be detrimental to the king.
The Duke of Zhou then told Taigong Wang and Zhao Gongsi: The reason why I do not avoid suspicion and act in the affairs of the country is because I am afraid that the people in the world will betray the Zhou family and cannot explain to our ancestors Taiwang Taiwang, Wang Ji and King Wen.
The three ancestors have worked hard for the cause of the world for a long time, and they have just succeeded.
King Wu died young and King Cheng was young. I only did this to complete the great cause of stabilizing the Zhou Dynasty.
So he eventually assisted in becoming king, and ordered his son Boqin to go to the State of Lu to be granted a title on his behalf.
Zhou Gong warned Bo Qin: I am the son of King Wen, the younger brother of King Wu, and the uncle of King Cheng. My status among the people in the world is not low.
But I had to pull up my hair three times once I washed my hair, spit out the food I was chewing three times after eating a meal, and got up to receive the wise men. Even so, I was afraid of missing out on the wise men in the world.
After you arrive in Lu, don't be arrogant because you have a land.
Sure enough, Guan Shu, Cai Shu, Wu Geng and others led Huaiyi to launch a rebellion.
The Duke of Zhou followed the orders of King Cheng, raised his troops to march eastward, and wrote the "Great Edict".
So Guan Shu was executed, Wu Geng was killed, and Cai Shu was exiled.

summary:
summary line 1: When King Wu fell ill, Duke Zhou offered himself as a sacrifice to the ancestral spirits, praying to die in King Wu's place. He performed divination, received auspicious signs, and King Wu recovered. After King Wu's death, with King Cheng still an infant, Duke Zhou assumed regency to prevent rebellion. His brothers Guan Shu and Cai Shu spread rumors that he would harm the young king. Duke Zhou explained his actions were to preserve the Zhou legacy, and eventually suppressed a rebellion led by Guan Shu, Cai Shu, and Wu Geng, executing Guan Shu and exiling Cai Shu.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
初，成王少时，病，周公乃自揃其蚤沉之河，以祝于神曰： 王少未有识，奸神命者乃旦也。
亦藏其策于府。成王病有瘳。
及成王用事，人或谮周公，周公奔楚。
成王发府，见周公祷书，乃泣，反周公。
周公归，恐成王壮，治有所淫佚，乃作《吐司》，作《毋逸》。
《毋逸》称： 为人父母，为业至长久，子孙骄奢忘之，以亡其家，为人子可不慎乎！
故昔在殷王中宗，严恭敬畏天命，自度治民，震惧不敢荒宁，故中宗飨国七十五年。
其在高宗，久劳于外，为与小人。作其即位，乃有亮闇，三年不言。言乃欢，不敢荒宁，密靖殷国，至于小大无怨，故高宗飨国五十五年。
其在祖甲，不义惟王，久为小人于外，知小人之依，能保施小民，不侮鳏ā寡，故祖甲飨国三十三年。
《吐司》称曰： 自汤至于帝乙，无不率祀明德，帝无不配天者。
在今后嗣王纣，诞淫厥佚，不顾天及民之从也，其民皆可诛。
文王日中昃不暇食，飨国五十年。
translation: 
When King Cheng was young, he fell ill once. Duke Zhou cut off his fingernails and sank them into the river. He prayed to the gods and said: "The king has no opinions when he is young, and he offends the gods."
He also hid the blessing notice in the secret palace, and the illness of King Cheng was indeed cured.
After King Cheng came to the throne, some people said bad things about Duke Zhou, so Duke Zhou fled to the state of Chu.
King Cheng opened the secret palace and found the prayer book written by Duke Zhou. He was moved to tears and immediately invited Duke Zhou back.
After Zhou Gong returned to the country, he was afraid that the young king would indulge in debauchery while governing the country, so he wrote "Toast" and "Wuyi".
"Wu Yi" says: As parents, it is extremely difficult to start a business for a long time. Their descendants are arrogant and extravagant and forget the hardships of their ancestors, ruining the family business. Sons of man must be cautious!
Therefore, in the past, King Zhongzong of Yin solemnly and respectfully feared the mandate of heaven, was strict with himself when governing the people, competed in the industry and did not dare to neglect his career for his own pleasure, so Zhongzong owned the country for seventy-five years.
Emperor Gaozong of Yin worked hard among the people for a long time and lived with the common people. After he came to the throne, he went into mourning and remained silent for three years. Once he spoke, he won the support of his subjects and did not dare to indulge in debauchery. This made the country of Yin stable and the ministers of the common people had no complaints. Therefore, Emperor Gaozong reigned for fifty-five years.
King Zujia of Yin felt that he was not the eldest son and it was not morally right to be a king, so he escaped from the people for a long time. He was well aware of the people's needs. He stabilized the country and benefited the people. He did not regret being arrogant to a widowed and lonely man. Therefore, Zujia owned the country for thirty-three years.
"Toushi" said: From Tang Dynasty to Emperor Yi, all the kings of the Yin Dynasty followed the etiquette system to perform sacrifices, worked hard to be virtuous, and were able to live up to the destiny.
Later, when he came to Yin and Zhou Dynasty, he was very dissolute and indulgent, regardless of the will of God and the people. All the people thought that he should be killed.
King Wen of Zhou had no time to eat when the sun turned west every day, and he owned the country for fifty years.

summary:
summary line 2: Duke Zhou governed for seven years, then returned power to King Cheng when the king came of age. He wrote admonitions including "Wu Yi" and "Toushi" to warn King Cheng against indulgence, citing examples of Yin Dynasty rulers who prospered through diligence or fell through decadence. After Duke Zhou's death, King Cheng buried him beside King Wen. When a storm destroyed crops, King Cheng opened the golden-bound cabinet containing Duke Zhou's prayer to die for King Wu, realized his virtue, and performed ceremonies that restored the harvest.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
庄公曰： 曩者叔牙欲立庆父，奈何？
季友以庄公命命牙待于针巫氏，使针季劫饮叔牙以鸩，曰： 饮此则有后奉祀；不然，死且无后。
牙遂饮鸩而死，鲁立其子为叔孙氏。
八月癸亥，庄公卒，季友竟立子斑为君，如庄公命。
侍丧，舍于党氏。
先时庆父与哀姜私通，欲立哀姜娣子开。
及庄公卒而季友立斑，十月己未，庆父使圉人荦杀鲁公子斑于党氏。
季友奔陈。庆父竟立庄公子开，是为愍公。
愍公二年，庆父与哀姜通益甚。
哀姜与庆父谋杀愍公而立庆父。
庆父使卜齮袭杀愍公于武闱。
季友闻之，自陈与愍公弟申如邾，请鲁求内之。
鲁人欲诛庆父。
庆父恐，奔莒。
于是季友奉子申入，立之，是为厘公。
厘公亦庄公少子。
哀姜恐，奔邾。
季友以赂如莒求庆父，庆父归，使人杀庆父，庆父请奔，弗听，乃使大夫傒斯行哭而往。
庆父闻傒斯音，乃自杀。
齐桓公闻哀姜与庆父乱以危鲁，及召之邾而杀之，以其尸归，戮之鲁。
鲁厘公请而葬之。
季友母陈女，故亡在陈，陈故佐送季友及子申。
季友之将生也，父鲁桓公使人卜之，曰： 男也，其名曰 友 ，间于两社，为公室辅。
季友亡，则鲁不昌。
及生，有文在掌曰 友 ，遂以名之，号为成季。
其后为季氏，庆父后为孟氏也。
translation: 
Zhuang Gong said: "Just now, my uncle Ya wanted to make me a father-in-law. What should I do?"
Ji You ordered Shuya to stay at Zhenwu's house in the name of Duke Zhuang, and sent Zhenji to force Shuya to drink poisonous wine. He said to Shuya: If you drink this, your descendants will not be killed; otherwise, if you die, your descendants will also be killed.
Shuya drank poisonous wine and died. The state of Lu named Shuya's son as the surname of Shusun.
On the day of Guihai in August, Duke Zhuang passed away. Ji You finally made Ziban the king and acted according to Duke Zhuang's orders.
Ziban was in mourning and lived in Dang's family.
Qing's father had an affair with Ai Jiang at the beginning, and Qing's father wanted to raise Ai Jiang's sister's son.
As a result, after Zhuang Gong's death, Ji You made Ban the king. At the end of the tenth month, Qingfu sent his men Nao to kill Lu Gong's son Ban at Dang's house. Ji You fled to Chen State.
Qing's father finally named Zhuang Gong Zikai, who was named Min Gong.
In the second year of Duke Meigong's reign, Qing's father's affair with Ai Jiang became more frequent.
Ai Jiang discussed with Qingfu and planned to kill Duke Min and make Qingfu the king of Lu.
Qingfu sent Bu Ye to kill Duke Min in Wu Wei.
When Ji You heard about this, he and Min Gong's younger brother Shen went from Chen to Zhu and asked the people of Lu to accept Shen as the king of Lu.
The Lu people wanted to kill Qing's father.
Qing's father was very frightened and fled to Ju.
So Ji You supported Zishen and returned to the state of Lu and established him as king, which was Li Gong.
Li Gong was also the youngest son of Duke Zhuang.
Ai Jiang was afraid and fled to Zhu.
Ji You sent gifts to Ju people to ask for Qing's father. Qing's father was sent back. Ji You sent people to kill Qing's father. Qing's father asked to allow him to go into exile. Ji You refused and sent doctor Xi Si to tell Qing's father in tears.
When Qing's father heard Xi Si's cry, he knew he had to commit suicide.
When Duke Huan of Qi heard that Ai Jiang and Qing Fu were causing harm to the state of Lu, he recalled Ai Jiang from the state of Zhu, killed her, and sent her body back to the state of Lu to display it to the public.
Duke Lu Li pleaded for mercy and buried Ai Jiang.
Ji You's mother was the daughter of Chen Guo, so Ji You went to Chen Guo when he fled, and Chen Guo helped escort Ji You and Zishen.
When Ji Youlin was born, Duke Huan ordered a divination for him. The diviner said: This is a boy named You. He will be located between the two societies in the future and will definitely become an important official in the palace.
After Ji You's death, the state of Lu will decline.
When he was born, there were lines on his palms with the character "Friends", so he was named after "Friends" and given the nickname "Cheng Ji".
His descendants are the Ji family, and Qingfu's descendants are the Meng family.

summary:
summary line 3: The state of Lu continued through successive dukes. Duke Boqin, Duke Zhou's son, governed Lu and suppressed rebellions. The state experienced periods of stability and turmoil, with conflicts over succession and the growing power of the Three Huan families (Mengsun, Shusun, Jisun). Duke Zhao was forced into exile after attacking the Ji family, dying in Qianhou. The state declined as the Three Huan families grew increasingly powerful, reducing subsequent rulers to figureheads.

Chunk 23: 
original: 
十九年，楚伐我，取徐州。
二十四年，楚考烈王伐灭鲁。
顷公亡，迁于下邑，为家人，鲁绝祀。
顷公卒于柯。
鲁起周公至顷公，凡三十四世。
太史公曰：余闻孔子称曰 甚矣鲁道之衰也！
洙泗之间龂龂如也 。
观庆父及叔牙闵公之际，何其乱也。
隐桓之事；襄仲杀适立庶；三家北面为臣，亲攻昭公，昭公以奔。
至其揖让之礼则从矣，而行事何其戾也？
translation: 
In the 19th year, Chu defeated Lu, and the war zone was Xuzhou.
In the twenty-fourth year, King Kaolie of Chu conquered Lu.
Qinggong fled, moved to a small town outside the capital, and became a commoner. The sacrifices of the state of Lu were extinct.
Qinggong died in Keyi.
The state of Lu had thirty-four generations in total, from Duke Zhou to Duke Qing.
Tai Shigong said: I heard that Confucius once said that the morality of the state of Lu was really in decline!
People in Zhushui and Surabaya argued and argued endlessly.
Look at how chaotic the state of Lu was when Qingfu, Shuya and Min Gong came to the throne!
The succession of Duke Huan and Duke Yin occurred; Xiang Zhong killed his legitimate concubine; Meng Sun, Shu Sun, and Ji Sun were ministers, but they personally attacked Zhao Gong, causing Zhao Gong to flee.
Although they have always followed the etiquette of courtesy, their actual behavior is so contrary to this!

summary:
summary line 4: The state of Lu lasted for thirty-four generations from Duke Zhou to Duke Qing, when King Kaolie of Chu conquered Lu. The historian Sima Qian noted that despite Lu's reputation for ritual propriety, its actual history was marked by chaos, including the murder of legitimate heirs and ministers attacking their rulers, revealing a contradiction between their ceremonial observance and political reality.

