Chunk 0: 
original: 
周公旦者，周武王弟也。
自文王在时，旦为子孝，笃仁，异于群子。
及武王即位，旦常辅翼武王，用事居多。
武王九年，东伐至盟津，周公辅行。
十一年，伐纣，至牧野，周公佐武王，作《牧誓》。
破殷，入商宫。
已杀纣，周公把大钺，召公把小钺，以夹武王，衅社，告纣之罪于天，及殷民。
释箕子之囚。
封纣子武庚禄父，使管叔、蔡叔傅之，以续殷祀。
遍封功臣同姓戚者。
封周公旦于少昊之虚曲阜，是为鲁公。
周公不就封，留佐武王。
武王克殷二年，天下未集，武王有疾，不豫，群臣惧，太公、召公乃缪卜。
周公曰： 未可以戚我先王。
周公于是乃自以为质，设三坛，周公北面立，戴璧秉圭，告于太王、王季、文王。
史策祝曰： 惟尔元孙王发，勤劳阻疾。
若尔三王是有负子之责于天，以旦代王发之身。
translation: 
Duke Dan of Zhou was the younger brother of King Wu of Zhou.
When King Wen was still alive, Dan, as his son, was very filial, loyal and kind, better than his other brothers.
When King Wu came to the throne, Dan often assisted King Bi Wu and handled many government affairs.
In the ninth year of King Wu's reign, he personally marched eastward to Mengjin, and Duke Zhou accompanied the army to assist him.
In the eleventh year, King Wu crusaded against Yin Zhou and the army reached Muye. Duke Zhou assisted King Wu and issued the "Oath of Mu" to mobilize the battle.
The Zhou army broke through the capital of Yin and entered the palace of Yin.
After killing Yin Zhou, Duke Zhou held a big axe, and Duke Zhao held a small axe. They flanked King Wu on their left and right, held the ceremony of provoking the community, and announced King Zhou's guilt to heaven and the people of Yin Dynasty.
Release the imprisoned Jizi.
Wu Genglu, the son of King Zhou, was granted the title of Father, and ordered Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai to assist him in order to continue the sacrifices of Yin.
After that, he was awarded the title of meritorious officials and relatives of the Zhou royal family.
The Duke of Zhou was granted the title of Duke of Lu in Qufu, Shaohao's former ruins.
However, Duke Zhou was not allowed to go to his own kingdom, but stayed in Chaoyan to assist King Wu.
In the second year after King Wu defeated Yin Zhou, the unification of the world had not yet succeeded. King Wu fell ill and was unwell, and the ministers were frightened. Taigong and Zhaogong wanted to perform divination piously to know good and bad luck.
Duke Zhou said: "You cannot make our late king worry and grieve."
Duke Zhou then used himself as a pledge and set up three altars. Standing facing the north, holding a jade and a gui, he prayed to the spirits of King Tai, Wang Ji and King Wen.
The historian was ordered to write a congratulatory message saying: Your eldest grandson, King Zhou, will be sent to you. Hard work leads to illness.
If the three former kings owe God a son, please send Dan instead of Zhou Wangfa.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
旦巧能，多材多艺，能事鬼神。
乃王发不如旦多材多艺，不能事鬼神。
乃命于帝庭，敷佑四方，用能定汝子孙于下地，四方之民罔不敬畏。
无坠天之降葆命，我先王亦永有所依归。
今我其即命于元龟，尔之许我，我以其璧与圭归，以俟尔命。
尔不许我，我乃屏璧与圭。
周公已令史策告太王、王季、文王，欲代武王发，于是乃即三王而卜。
卜人皆曰吉，发书视之，信吉。
周公喜，开籥，乃见书遇吉。
周公入贺武王曰： 王其无害。
旦新受命三王，维长终是图，兹道能念予一人。 周公藏其策金縢é匮中，诫守者勿敢言。
明日，武王有瘳。
其后武王既崩，成王少，在强葆之中。
translation: 
Dan is smart, capable, versatile, and able to serve ghosts and gods.
King Fa of Zhou was not as versatile as Dan and could not serve ghosts and gods.
But King Fa of Zhou was ordered by Heaven to help the whole world, and to enable your descendants to live peacefully in the world. People everywhere will respect him.
He can ensure that the heaven-given treasures are preserved for a long time, and our late king can be enshrined forever.
Now I obey the orders of the late king through the divination turtle. If you can agree to my request, I will offer the jade and obey your orders.
If you don't agree, I will hide the jade.
After Zhou Gong ordered the historian to write a book to congratulate King Tai, Wang Ji, and King Wen that he would replace King Wu with his own body, he went to the altar of the three kings to divine fortune.
People in fortune-telling said it was auspicious. When I opened the omen book, I found that it was indeed auspicious.
Duke Zhou was very happy, so he opened the lock and looked at the divination book hidden in the cabinet, which was also an auspicious sign.
The Duke of Zhou immediately entered the palace to congratulate King Wu and said: "You are not in trouble. I have just accepted the orders of the three ancestors, so that you only need to consider the long-term plan of the Zhou Dynasty and the world, and have nothing else to worry about."
This is what is called God’s thoughtful consideration for the Emperor. Duke Zhou put the scroll into a gold-wired cabinet and sealed it, warning the keepers not to leak it.
The next day, King Wu suddenly recovered.
Later, King Wu died and King Cheng was still in his infancy.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
周公恐天下闻武王崩而畔，周公乃践阼代成王摄行政当国。
管叔及其群弟流言于国曰： 周公将不利于成王。
周公乃告太公望、召公奭曰： 我之所以弗辟而摄行政者，恐天下畔周，无以告我先王太王、王季、文王。
三王之忧劳天下久矣，于今而后成。
武王蚤终，成王少，将以成周，我所以为之若此。
于是卒相成王，而使其子伯禽代就封于鲁。
周公戒伯禽曰： 我文王之子，武王之弟，成王之叔父，我于天下亦不贱矣。
然我一沐三捉发，一饭三吐哺，起以待士，犹恐失天下之贤人。
子之鲁，慎无以国骄人。
管、蔡、武庚等果率淮夷而反。
周公乃奉成王命，兴师东伐，作《大诰》。
遂诛管叔，杀武庚，放蔡叔。
translation: 
Duke Zhou was worried that people in the world would betray the court when they heard about King Wu's death, so he ascended the throne to handle government affairs on behalf of King Cheng and preside over the power of the country.
Guan Shu and his brothers spread rumors in the country: Duke Zhou will be detrimental to the king.
The Duke of Zhou then told Taigong Wang and Zhao Gongsi: The reason why I do not avoid suspicion and act in the affairs of the country is because I am afraid that the people in the world will betray the Zhou family and cannot explain to our ancestors Taiwang Taiwang, Wang Ji and King Wen.
The three ancestors have worked hard for the cause of the world for a long time, and they have just succeeded.
King Wu died young and King Cheng was young. I only did this to complete the great cause of stabilizing the Zhou Dynasty.
So he eventually assisted in becoming king, and ordered his son Boqin to go to the State of Lu to be granted a title on his behalf.
Zhou Gong warned Bo Qin: I am the son of King Wen, the younger brother of King Wu, and the uncle of King Cheng. My status among the people in the world is not low.
But I had to pull up my hair three times once I washed my hair, spit out the food I was chewing three times after eating a meal, and got up to receive the wise men. Even so, I was afraid of missing out on the wise men in the world.
After you arrive in Lu, don't be arrogant because you have a land.
Sure enough, Guan Shu, Cai Shu, Wu Geng and others led Huaiyi to launch a rebellion.
The Duke of Zhou followed the orders of King Cheng, raised his troops to march eastward, and wrote the "Great Edict".
So Guan Shu was executed, Wu Geng was killed, and Cai Shu was exiled.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
收殷余民，以封康叔于卫。封微子于宋，以奉殷祀。
宁淮夷东土，二年而毕定。
诸侯咸服宗周。
天降祉福，唐叔得禾，异母同颖，献之成王，成王命唐叔以馈周公于东土，作《馈禾》。
周公既受命禾，嘉天子命，作《嘉禾》。
东土以集，周公归报成王，乃为诗贻王，命之曰《鸱鸮》。
王亦未敢训周公。
成王七年二月乙未，王朝步自周，至丰，使太保召公先之雒相土。
其三月，周公往营成周雒邑，卜居焉，曰吉，遂国之。
成王长，能听政。
于是周公乃还政于成王，成王临朝。
周公之代成王治，南面倍依以朝诸侯。
及七年后，还政成王，北面就臣位，匔ō匔如畏然。
translation: 
Collect the remnants of Yin, grant Kang Shu to Wei, and Wei Zi to Song, and let him perform Yin's sacrifices.
It took another two years to pacify Huaiyi and other areas in the east.
The princes all followed the Zhou Dynasty.
God sent blessings, and Uncle Tang received two stalks of millet and one ear, which he dedicated to King Cheng. King Cheng ordered Uncle Tang to go to the eastern part of the garrison where Duke Zhou's army was stationed and present it to Duke Zhou, and wrote "Feeding Grain".
After Zhou Gong accepted it, he expressed gratitude and praised the emperor's order and wrote "Jiahe".
After the East became stable, Duke Zhou reported back to King Cheng and wrote a poem as a gift to King Cheng. His poem was called "Owl".
King Cheng did not dare to blame Duke Zhou.
On the last day of February in the seventh year of King Cheng, King Cheng went to Haojing to pay homage to Wuwang Temple, and then walked to Fengjing to pay homage to Wenwang Temple. He ordered Taibao Zhaogong to go to Luoyi first to survey the terrain.
In March, Duke Zhou went to Luoyi to build the capital city of Zhou and conducted divination. The results showed good luck, so he made Luoyi the capital.
King Cheng grew up and was able to handle state affairs.
So Zhou Gong returned the political power to King Cheng, who came to the court to listen to the government.
In the past, when the Duke of Zhou replaced King Cheng in governing the world, he faced the south and his back to the wall to accept the worship of the princes.
Seven years later, when King Cheng returned the throne, Duke Zhou faced north and stood in the position of a minister, still cautious and respectful as if he were walking on thin ice.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
初，成王少时，病，周公乃自揃其蚤沉之河，以祝于神曰： 王少未有识，奸神命者乃旦也。
亦藏其策于府。成王病有瘳。
及成王用事，人或谮周公，周公奔楚。
成王发府，见周公祷书，乃泣，反周公。
周公归，恐成王壮，治有所淫佚，乃作《吐司》，作《毋逸》。
《毋逸》称： 为人父母，为业至长久，子孙骄奢忘之，以亡其家，为人子可不慎乎！
故昔在殷王中宗，严恭敬畏天命，自度治民，震惧不敢荒宁，故中宗飨国七十五年。
其在高宗，久劳于外，为与小人。作其即位，乃有亮闇，三年不言。言乃欢，不敢荒宁，密靖殷国，至于小大无怨，故高宗飨国五十五年。
其在祖甲，不义惟王，久为小人于外，知小人之依，能保施小民，不侮鳏ā寡，故祖甲飨国三十三年。
《吐司》称曰： 自汤至于帝乙，无不率祀明德，帝无不配天者。
在今后嗣王纣，诞淫厥佚，不顾天及民之从也，其民皆可诛。
文王日中昃不暇食，飨国五十年。
translation: 
When King Cheng was young, he fell ill once. Duke Zhou cut off his fingernails and sank them into the river. He prayed to the gods and said: "The king has no opinions when he is young, and he offends the gods."
He also hid the blessing notice in the secret palace, and the illness of King Cheng was indeed cured.
After King Cheng came to the throne, some people said bad things about Duke Zhou, so Duke Zhou fled to the state of Chu.
King Cheng opened the secret palace and found the prayer book written by Duke Zhou. He was moved to tears and immediately invited Duke Zhou back.
After Zhou Gong returned to the country, he was afraid that the young king would indulge in debauchery while governing the country, so he wrote "Toast" and "Wuyi".
"Wu Yi" says: As parents, it is extremely difficult to start a business for a long time. Their descendants are arrogant and extravagant and forget the hardships of their ancestors, ruining the family business. Sons of man must be cautious!
Therefore, in the past, King Zhongzong of Yin solemnly and respectfully feared the mandate of heaven, was strict with himself when governing the people, competed in the industry and did not dare to neglect his career for his own pleasure, so Zhongzong owned the country for seventy-five years.
Emperor Gaozong of Yin worked hard among the people for a long time and lived with the common people. After he came to the throne, he went into mourning and remained silent for three years. Once he spoke, he won the support of his subjects and did not dare to indulge in debauchery. This made the country of Yin stable and the ministers of the common people had no complaints. Therefore, Emperor Gaozong reigned for fifty-five years.
King Zujia of Yin felt that he was not the eldest son and it was not morally right to be a king, so he escaped from the people for a long time. He was well aware of the people's needs. He stabilized the country and benefited the people. He did not regret being arrogant to a widowed and lonely man. Therefore, Zujia owned the country for thirty-three years.
"Toushi" said: From Tang Dynasty to Emperor Yi, all the kings of the Yin Dynasty followed the etiquette system to perform sacrifices, worked hard to be virtuous, and were able to live up to the destiny.
Later, when he came to Yin and Zhou Dynasty, he was very dissolute and indulgent, regardless of the will of God and the people. All the people thought that he should be killed.
King Wen of Zhou had no time to eat when the sun turned west every day, and he owned the country for fifty years.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
作此以诫成王。
成王在丰，天下已安，周之官政未次序。于是周公作《周官》，官别其宜，作《立政》，以便百姓。百姓说。
周公在丰，病，将没，曰： 必葬我成周，以明吾不敢离成王。
周公既卒，成王亦让，葬周公于毕，从文王，以明予小子不敢臣周公也。
周公卒后，秋未获，暴风雷，禾尽偃，大木尽拔。
周国大恐。
成王与大夫朝服以开金縢书，王乃得周公所自以为功代武王之说。
二公及王乃问史百执事，史百执事曰： 信有，昔周公命我勿敢言。
成王执书以泣，曰： 自今后其无缪卜乎！
昔周公勤劳王家，惟予幼人弗及知。
今天动威以彰周公之德，惟朕小子其迎，我国家礼亦宜之。
王出郊，天乃雨，反风，禾尽起。
二公命国人，凡大木所偃，尽起而筑之。
岁则大孰。
于是成王乃命鲁得郊祭文王。
鲁有天子礼乐者，以褒周公之德也。
周公卒，子伯禽固已前受封，是为鲁公。
鲁公伯禽之初受封之鲁，三年而后报政周公。
周公曰： 何迟也？
伯禽曰： 变其俗，革其礼，丧三年然后除之，故迟。
太公亦封于齐，五月而报政周公。
周公曰： 何疾也？
曰： 吾简其君臣礼，从其俗为也。
及后闻伯禽报政迟，乃叹曰： 呜呼，鲁后世其北面事齐矣！夫政不简不易，民不有近；平易近民，民必归之。
translation: 
Duke Zhou wrote these to warn King Cheng.
King Cheng lived in Fengjing. Although the world was stable at that time, the official system of the Zhou Dynasty had not yet been properly arranged, so Zhou Gong wrote "Zhou Officials" to delineate the responsibilities of hundreds of officials. He wrote "Establishing Government" to benefit the people and make them happy.
Duke Zhou fell ill in Fengjing and said before his death: I must be buried in Chengzhou to show that I dare not leave King Cheng.
After the death of Duke Zhou, King Cheng also showed humility, and finally buried Duke Zhou in Biyi, accompanying King Wen, to show that King Cheng did not dare to treat Duke Zhou as his minister.
After the death of Duke Zhou, just before the harvest in the autumn, suddenly there was a strong wind, thunder and lightning, all the crops fell down, and the big trees were uprooted.
The whole state of Zhou was greatly frightened.
At this time, King Cheng and the officials put on their formal attires, opened the Book of Golden Ribbons, and saw the brief letter stating that Duke Zhou was willing to take himself as a hostage and die for King Wu.
Taigong, Zhaogong and Chengwang asked the historian and other officials for confirmation. They replied: "This is indeed the case. At that time, Duke Zhou ordered us not to tell it."
King Cheng held the slip and cried: "I'm afraid there will never be such pious divination from now on."
In the past, Duke Zhou worked hard for the royal family, but a young person like me didn't know it yet.
Now that God is showing his majesty to commend Zhou Gong for his virtue, I will personally go to greet the God. According to the etiquette of our country, I should do the same.
So King Cheng went out of the city to hold a ceremony to worship the sky on the outskirts of the city. It started to rain immediately, the wind direction reversed, and the fallen crops stood upright again.
Taigong and Zhaogong asked people to pick up all the big trees that had been blown down, and use soil to build up the roots of the trees and tamp them firmly.
This year the whole country received a bumper harvest.
So King Cheng ordered the king of Lu to hold suburban sacrifices and worship King Wen.
The state of Lu had the emperor's rituals and music, which were used to praise Zhou Gong's virtues.
When Zhou Gong passed away, his son Boqin had already accepted the title of feudal state and was Lu Gong.
Uncle Qin, Duke of Lu, was originally granted the title of Lu, and it was only three years later that he reported the administrative situation to Duke Zhou.
Duke Zhou said: Why is it so late?
Bo Qin said: To change the customs and etiquette, the effect will only be seen after three years of mourning and mourning, so it is too late.
Taigong was granted the title of Qi State, and five months later he reported to Zhou Gong on the administrative situation.
Duke Zhou said: Why so quickly?
Taigong said: I simplify the etiquette between his monarch and his ministers, and do everything according to their customs.
Later, when the Grand Duke heard that Bo Qin was late in reporting the political situation, he sighed and said: Alas! The descendants of the State of Lu will be ministers of the State of Qi. If the government is not simple and easy to implement, the people will not be close to it; if the government is easy to approach, the people will definitely obey.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
伯禽即位之后，有管、蔡等反也，淮夷、徐戎亦并兴反。
于是伯禽率师伐之于肸ì，作《肸誓》，曰： 陈尔甲胄，无敢不善。
无敢伤牿ù。
马牛其风，臣妾逋逃，勿敢越逐，敬复之。
无敢寇攘，逾墙垣。
鲁人三郊三隧，歭尔刍茭、糗ǔ粮、桢干，无敢不逮。
我甲戌筑而征徐戎，无敢不及，有大刑。
作此《肸誓》，遂平徐戎，定鲁。
鲁公伯禽卒，子考公酋立。
考公四年卒，立弟熙，是谓炀公。
炀公筑茅阙门。
六年卒，子幽公宰立。
幽公十四年，幽公弟杀幽公而自立，是为魏公。
魏公五十年卒，子厉公擢立。
厉公三十七年卒，鲁人立其弟具，是为献公。
献公三十二年卒，子真公濞立。
真公十四年，周厉王无道，出奔彘，共和行政。
二十九年，周宣王即位。
三十年，真公卒，弟敖立，是为武公。
武公九年春，武公与长子括，少子戏，西朝周宣王。
translation: 
After Boqin came to the throne, Guan, Cai and others rebelled, and Huaiyi and Xu Rong also raised troops to rebel.
So Bo Qin led his army to Zhi Yi to attack him, and wrote "Zhen Oath", saying: Prepare your armor and helmets, they must be of good quality.
Do not destroy cattle pens and horse pens.
If horses and cattle are lost and slaves run away, sergeants are not allowed to leave their posts without authorization to pursue them. If other people's horses and cattle slaves run away to their own place, they must return them.
Robbery and intrusion are not allowed, and housebreaking and theft are not allowed.
The people in the outlying suburbs in the west, south and north of Lu State should prepare grain and grass trunks so that there is no shortage.
On Jiaxu Day, our army was building fortifications to conquer Xu Rong. We were not allowed to fail to arrive on time, otherwise we would be punished with death.
After issuing the "Oath of Death", he defeated Xu Rong and stabilized the state of Lu.
After Lu Gong Boqin died, his son Kao Gong Emirate succeeded to the throne.
Kaogong died four years later, and his younger brother Xi succeeded him as Duke Yang.
Duke Yang built the Maoque Gate.
After reigning for six years, Duke Yang died, and his son You Gongzai succeeded him.
In the fourteenth year of Duke You, his younger brother killed Duke You and established himself as king, namely Duke Wei.
Wei Gong died after reigning for fifty years, and his son Li Gongzhuo succeeded him.
Duke Li died after reigning for thirty-seven years, and the people of Lu made his younger brother Gu the king of the country, named Duke Xian.
Duke Xian died in the thirty-second year of his reign, and his son Zhen Gong Bi succeeded him.
In the fourteenth year of Zhen Gong's reign, King Li of Zhou was immoral and fled to Sheyi. Duke Zhou and Duke Zhao were in power together.
In the twenty-ninth year, King Xuan of Zhou came to the throne.
Thirty years later, Duke Zhen died, and his younger brother Ao succeeded him as Duke Wu.
In the spring of the ninth year of Duke Wu, Duke Wu and his eldest son Kuo and his youngest son Xi traveled west to pay homage to King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
宣王爱戏，欲立戏为鲁太子。
周之樊仲山父谏宣王曰： 废长立少，不顺；不顺，必犯王命；犯王命，必诛之：故出令不可不顺也。
令之不行，政之不立；行而不顺，民将弃上。
夫下事上，少事长，所以为顺。
今天子建诸侯，立其少，是教民逆也。
若鲁从之，诸侯效之，王命将有所壅；若弗从而诛之，是自诛王命也。
诛之亦失，不诛亦失，王其图之。
宣王弗听，卒立戏为鲁太子。
夏，武公归而卒，戏立，是为懿公。
懿公九年，懿公兄括之子伯御与鲁人攻弑懿公，而立伯御为君。
translation: 
King Xuan liked opera and wanted to make opera the prince of Lu.
Fan Zhongshanfu, an official of the Zhou Dynasty, advised King Xuan: Abandoning the eldest son and establishing a younger son is not in compliance with the etiquette system; if it is not in compliance with the etiquette system, it will definitely violate the order of the previous king; if it violates the order of the previous king, he must be killed; therefore, the order cannot violate the system of etiquette.
If the order is difficult to implement, the government decree will have no authority; if the order is implemented but violates the etiquette, the people will turn their backs on the king.
The subordinates serve the superiors, and the young serve the elders. This is in line with etiquette.
Now, the emperor, you have appointed the heirs of the princes and appointed their younger sons. This is teaching the people to do things that are not in compliance with the system and laws.
If the State of Lu obeys your order and other princes follow suit, the order of the late king will be blocked and difficult to be carried out; if the State of Lu does not obey your order of abolishing the chief and establishing a young man, you must punish the State of Lu, which is equivalent to your own violation of the order of the former king.
It was a mistake for you to attack Lu at that time, and it was also a mistake for you not to attack Lu. Please consider it carefully.
King Xuan refused to listen and finally established the title of Prince Lu.
In the summer, Duke Wu died after returning to the state of Lu. Xi succeeded him as Duke Yi.
In the ninth year of Duke Yi, Boyu, the son of Kuo, the brother of Duke Yi, and the people of Lu attacked and killed Duke Yi, and made Boyu the prime minister of Lu.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
伯御即位十一年，周宣王伐鲁，杀其君伯御，而问鲁公子能道顺诸侯者，以为鲁后。
樊穆仲曰： 鲁懿公弟称，肃恭明神，敬事耆老；赋事行刑，必问于遗训而咨于固实；不干所问，不犯所咨。
宣王曰： 然，能训治其民矣。
乃立称于夷宫，是为孝公。
自是后，诸侯多畔王命。
孝公二十五年，诸侯畔周，犬戎杀幽王。
秦始列为诸侯。
二十七年，孝公卒，子弗湟立，是为惠公。
惠公三十年，晋人弑其君昭侯。
四十五年，晋人又弑其君孝侯。
四十六年，惠公卒，长庶子息摄当国，行君事，是为隐公。
初，惠公适夫人无子，公贱妾声子生子息。
息长，为娶于宋。
宋女至而好，惠公夺而自妻之。
生子允。
登宋女为夫人，以允为太子。
及惠公卒，为允少故，鲁人共令息摄政，不言即位。
translation: 
In the eleventh year of Bo Yu's reign, King Xuan of Zhou attacked Lu and killed his lord Bo Yu. He then asked who among the princes of Lu State could inspire and teach the princes, and let him be the heir of Lu State.
Fan Muzhong said: Lu Yigong's younger brother said that one should be solemn and respectful in serving the gods and respecting the elders; when handling affairs and enforcing laws and regulations, one must consult the teachings and correct experience of the previous kings, and do not violate the teachings of the previous kings or contradict correct experience.
King Xuan said: "Okay, this way we can educate and govern the people."
So he was named Lu Jun in Yigong, which is Xiaogong.
After that, many princes disobeyed the king's orders.
In the twenty-fifth year of Duke Xiao's reign, the princes betrayed the Zhou family, and the Quanrong people killed King You.
Qin began to be classified as princes.
In the twenty-seventh year, Duke Xiao died, and his son Fuhuang succeeded him as Duke Hui.
In the 30th year of Duke Hui, the people of Jin killed their king Zhaohou.
Forty-five years later, the people of Jin killed their king Xiaohou.
In the forty-sixth year, Duke Hui passed away, and his eldest concubine, Xi, took charge of government affairs and took charge of the monarchy. He was called Yin Gong.
At first, Hui Zheng's wife had no children, and his concubine announced that she would give birth to a son.
When Xi grew up, Duke Hui married a Song Dynasty girl for Xi.
When a girl from Song came to the state of Lu, Duke Hui saw her beauty and took her as his wife.
Gave birth to son Yun.
Duke Hui promoted Song's daughter to his wife and made Yun the crown prince.
When Duke Hui died, because Yun was too young, the people of Lu jointly agreed to take charge of state affairs, which was not called his accession to the throne.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
隐公五年，观渔于棠。
八年，与郑易天子之太山之邑祊及许田，君子讥之。
十一年冬，公子挥谄谓隐公曰： 百姓便君，君其遂立。
吾请为君杀子允，君以我为相。
隐公曰： 有先君命。
吾为允少，故摄代。
今允长矣，吾方营菟ù裘之地而老焉，以授子允政。
挥惧子允闻而反诛之，乃反谮隐公于子允曰： 隐公欲遂立，去子，子其图之。
请为子杀隐公。
子允许诺。
十一月，隐公祭钟巫，齐于社圃，馆于蒍氏。
挥使人弑隐公于蒍氏，而立子允为君，是为桓公。
桓公元年，郑以璧易天子之许田。
二年，以宋之赂鼎入于太庙，君子讥之。
三年，使挥迎妇于齐为夫人。
translation: 
In the fifth year of Yin Gong's reign, he was watching fishing in Tangdi.
In the eighth year, he exchanged with Zheng Guo for Fang and Xu Tian, ​​the fiefdoms of Taishan given by the emperor. The gentleman ridiculed this matter.
In the winter of the eleventh year, Prince Hui slandered Gong Yin and said: The people think that it is beneficial for them to be the king of the country, so you should not act as an agent and become the king officially.
I ask you to kill Ziyun, and then you appoint me as the Prime Minister.
Duke Yin said: The emperor has his destiny first.
Because Yun is young, I act as an agent for state affairs.
Now that Yun has grown up, I am building a place like Tuqiu to provide for retirement, and then hand over the affairs of state to Zi Yun.
Prince Hui was afraid that Zi Yun would kill him after hearing what he said, so he told Zi Yun bad things about Duke Yin and framed him, saying: Duke Yin wants to officially become the king of the country. You must make plans as soon as possible to get rid of you.
Please allow me to kill Yin Gong for you.
Ziyun agreed.
In the eleventh month, Yin Gong will worship the God of Zhongwu, fast in Shepu, and live in his family's house.
The young master sent people to kill Duke Yin at Jiang's house, and appointed Ziyun as Lord of Lu, who was Duke Huan.
In the first year of Huan AD, Zheng Guo exchanged jade bis for Xu Tian, ​​a fiefdom given to Lu by the emperor.
In the second year, Lord Lu ordered the tripod sent as a bribe from the Song Dynasty to be placed in the Ancestral Temple. The gentleman ridiculed this matter.
Three years later, he sent his son Hui to the state of Qi to marry the daughter of Qi as Duke Huan's wife.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
六年，夫人生子，与桓公同日，故名曰同。
同长，为太子。
十六年，会于曹，伐郑，入厉公。
十八年春，公将有行，遂与夫人如齐。
申繻谏止，公不听，遂如齐。
齐襄公通桓公夫人。
公怒夫人，夫人以告齐侯。
夏四月丙子，齐襄公飨公，公醉，使公子彭生抱鲁桓公，因命彭生折其胁，公死于车。
鲁人告于齐曰： 寡君畏君之威，不敢宁居，来修好礼。
礼成而不反，无所归咎，请得彭生以除丑于诸侯。
齐人杀彭生以说鲁。
立太子同，是为庄公。
庄公母夫人因留齐，不敢归鲁。
庄公五年冬，伐卫，内卫惠公。
八年，齐公子纠来奔。
九年，鲁欲内子纠于齐，后桓公，桓公发兵击鲁，鲁急，杀子纠。召忽死。
齐告鲁生致管仲。
鲁人施伯曰： 齐欲得管仲，非杀之也，将用之，用之则为鲁患。
不如杀，以其尸与之。
庄公不听，遂囚管仲与齐。
齐人相管仲。
十三年，鲁庄公与曹沬会齐桓公于柯，曹沬劫齐桓公，求鲁侵地，已盟而释桓公。
桓公欲背约，管仲谏，卒归鲁侵地。
十五年，齐桓公始霸。
二十三年，庄公如齐观社。
translation: 
In the sixth year, the wife gave birth to a son whose birthday was the same as Duke Huan, so he named him Tong.
They grew up together and became the prince.
In the 16th year, Duke Huan and the princes met in Cao State to attack Zheng State and supported Duke Li of Zheng to return to power.
In the spring of the eighteenth year, Duke Huan was preparing to go out and went to Qi State with his wife.
Shen Sui tried to stop him, but Duke Huan refused to listen, so he went to Qi.
Duke Xiang of Qi had an affair with Mrs. Duke Huan.
When Duke Huan found out, he was angry and scolded his wife, and she told Duke Xiang of Qi about what Duke Huan had scolded.
On Bingzi day in the fourth month of summer, Duke Xianggang of Qi hosted a banquet for Duke Huan. After Duke Huan got drunk, Duke Xiang of Qi ordered his son Peng Sheng to hold Duke Huan in his arms, and ordered Peng Sheng to break Duke Huan's ribs. Duke Huan died in the car.
The people of Lu told the people of Qi: Our king is in awe of your majesty and does not dare to live in peace. He went to Qi to repair the friendship between the two countries.
The ceremony was completed but the person did not return, and the blame could not be investigated. He only asked for pengsheng to wash away the scandal in front of the princes.
The people of Qi killed Peng Sheng to explain to Lu.
The people of the State of Lu established the prince as the same king, who was Duke Zhuang.
Therefore, Duke Zhuang's mother, the wife of Duke Huan of Lu, stayed in Qi State and did not dare to return to Lu State.
In the winter of the fifth year of Duke Zhuang's reign, he attacked Wei and used force to support Duke Hui of Wei in returning to power.
In the winter of the eighth year, Prince Jiu of Qi State fled to Lu State.
In the ninth year, the state of Lu wanted to escort Zi Jiu back to Qi to become king, but fell behind Duke Huan of Qi. Duke Huan of Qi sent troops to attack Lu. The state of Lu was in danger, so he had no choice but to kill Zi Jiu and Zhao Hu died.
The people of Qi told Lu that they must capture Guan Zhong alive and send him to Qi.
Shi Bo from Lu said: Qi wants to get Guan Zhong, not to kill him, but to appoint him. If Guan Zhong is reused, it will be a big trouble for Lu.
It is better to kill Guan Zhong and give his body to Qi.
Duke Zhuang refused to listen and escorted Guan Zhong to Qi.
The people of Qi used Guan Zhong as their prime minister.
In the thirteenth year, Duke Zhuang of Lu and the doctor Cao Mo made an alliance with Duke Huan of Qi in the land of Ke. Cao Mo kidnapped Duke Huan of Qi by force and demanded the land of Lu that had been occupied by Qi. They made an oath to release Duke Huan.
Duke Huan wanted to break the contract, but Guan Zhong dissuaded him and finally returned the invaded land to Lu.
In the fifteenth year, Duke Huan of Qi began to dominate the princes.
In the twenty-third year, Duke Zhuang went to the state of Qi to watch the social sacrifice.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
三十二年，初，庄公筑台临党氏，见孟女，说而爱之，许立为夫人，割臂以盟。
孟女生子斑。
斑长，说梁氏女，往观。
圉人荦自墙外与梁氏女戏。
斑怒，鞭荦ò。
庄公闻之，曰： 荦有力焉，遂杀之，是未可鞭而置也。
斑未得杀。
会庄公有疾。
庄公有三弟，长曰庆父，次曰叔牙，次曰季友。
庄公取齐女为夫人曰哀姜。
哀姜无子。哀姜娣曰叔姜，生子开。
庄公无适嗣，爱孟女，欲立其子斑。
庄公病，而问嗣于弟叔牙。
叔牙曰： 一继一及，鲁之常也。
庆父在，可为嗣，君何忧？
庄公患叔牙欲立庆父，退而问季友。
季友曰： 请以死立斑也。
translation: 
In the thirty-second year, at the beginning, Duke Zhuang built a palace just next to Dang's house. He saw Dang's daughter Meng Ren and fell in love with her very much. He agreed to make her his wife and cut his arm to make an oath.
Later, Meng gave birth to her son Ban.
When Ban grew up, he fell in love with Liang's daughter and went to visit her at her home.
I saw the horse breeder Guan Luo playing with Liang's daughter outside the wall.
Ban was furious and whipped Nao.
When Zhuang Gong heard about this, he said: "Nao is very powerful and should be killed. This man cannot be beaten and then let go."
Madara will not have time to kill Nao in the future.
This happened just as Duke Zhuang fell ill.
Duke Zhuang has three younger brothers, the eldest is named Qingfu, the second is Shuya, and the younger is named Jiyou.
Duke Zhuang married a woman from Qi State as his wife, named Ai Jiang.
Ai Jiang had no sons. Ai Jiang's sister was named Shu Jiang. She gave birth to a son, Kai, for Duke Zhuang.
Mrs. Zhuang Gongzheng had no children. Because she loved Mencius, she wanted to make her son Ban the prince.
When Duke Zhuang was seriously ill, he asked his younger brother Shuya who could inherit the throne.
Shu Ya said: After the father dies, the son succeeds, and after the brother dies, the younger brother succeeds. This is the norm in the Lu country.
Now that you have a father-in-law and an heir, what are you worried about?
Duke Zhuang was worried that his uncle Ya wanted to make Qing his father, so he asked Ji You again when there was no one around.
Ji You said: Please let me pledge my life to support Madara as king.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
庄公曰： 曩者叔牙欲立庆父，奈何？
季友以庄公命命牙待于针巫氏，使针季劫饮叔牙以鸩，曰： 饮此则有后奉祀；不然，死且无后。
牙遂饮鸩而死，鲁立其子为叔孙氏。
八月癸亥，庄公卒，季友竟立子斑为君，如庄公命。
侍丧，舍于党氏。
先时庆父与哀姜私通，欲立哀姜娣子开。
及庄公卒而季友立斑，十月己未，庆父使圉人荦杀鲁公子斑于党氏。
季友奔陈。庆父竟立庄公子开，是为愍公。
愍公二年，庆父与哀姜通益甚。
哀姜与庆父谋杀愍公而立庆父。
庆父使卜齮袭杀愍公于武闱。
季友闻之，自陈与愍公弟申如邾，请鲁求内之。
鲁人欲诛庆父。
庆父恐，奔莒。
于是季友奉子申入，立之，是为厘公。
厘公亦庄公少子。
哀姜恐，奔邾。
季友以赂如莒求庆父，庆父归，使人杀庆父，庆父请奔，弗听，乃使大夫傒斯行哭而往。
庆父闻傒斯音，乃自杀。
齐桓公闻哀姜与庆父乱以危鲁，及召之邾而杀之，以其尸归，戮之鲁。
鲁厘公请而葬之。
季友母陈女，故亡在陈，陈故佐送季友及子申。
季友之将生也，父鲁桓公使人卜之，曰： 男也，其名曰 友 ，间于两社，为公室辅。
季友亡，则鲁不昌。
及生，有文在掌曰 友 ，遂以名之，号为成季。
其后为季氏，庆父后为孟氏也。
translation: 
Zhuang Gong said: "Just now, my uncle Ya wanted to make me a father-in-law. What should I do?"
Ji You ordered Shuya to stay at Zhenwu's house in the name of Duke Zhuang, and sent Zhenji to force Shuya to drink poisonous wine. He said to Shuya: If you drink this, your descendants will not be killed; otherwise, if you die, your descendants will also be killed.
Shuya drank poisonous wine and died. The state of Lu named Shuya's son as the surname of Shusun.
On the day of Guihai in August, Duke Zhuang passed away. Ji You finally made Ziban the king and acted according to Duke Zhuang's orders.
Ziban was in mourning and lived in Dang's family.
Qing's father had an affair with Ai Jiang at the beginning, and Qing's father wanted to raise Ai Jiang's sister's son.
As a result, after Zhuang Gong's death, Ji You made Ban the king. At the end of the tenth month, Qingfu sent his men Nao to kill Lu Gong's son Ban at Dang's house. Ji You fled to Chen State.
Qing's father finally named Zhuang Gong Zikai, who was named Min Gong.
In the second year of Duke Meigong's reign, Qing's father's affair with Ai Jiang became more frequent.
Ai Jiang discussed with Qingfu and planned to kill Duke Min and make Qingfu the king of Lu.
Qingfu sent Bu Ye to kill Duke Min in Wu Wei.
When Ji You heard about this, he and Min Gong's younger brother Shen went from Chen to Zhu and asked the people of Lu to accept Shen as the king of Lu.
The Lu people wanted to kill Qing's father.
Qing's father was very frightened and fled to Ju.
So Ji You supported Zishen and returned to the state of Lu and established him as king, which was Li Gong.
Li Gong was also the youngest son of Duke Zhuang.
Ai Jiang was afraid and fled to Zhu.
Ji You sent gifts to Ju people to ask for Qing's father. Qing's father was sent back. Ji You sent people to kill Qing's father. Qing's father asked to allow him to go into exile. Ji You refused and sent doctor Xi Si to tell Qing's father in tears.
When Qing's father heard Xi Si's cry, he knew he had to commit suicide.
When Duke Huan of Qi heard that Ai Jiang and Qing Fu were causing harm to the state of Lu, he recalled Ai Jiang from the state of Zhu, killed her, and sent her body back to the state of Lu to display it to the public.
Duke Lu Li pleaded for mercy and buried Ai Jiang.
Ji You's mother was the daughter of Chen Guo, so Ji You went to Chen Guo when he fled, and Chen Guo helped escort Ji You and Zishen.
When Ji Youlin was born, Duke Huan ordered a divination for him. The diviner said: This is a boy named You. He will be located between the two societies in the future and will definitely become an important official in the palace.
After Ji You's death, the state of Lu will decline.
When he was born, there were lines on his palms with the character "Friends", so he was named after "Friends" and given the nickname "Cheng Ji".
His descendants are the Ji family, and Qingfu's descendants are the Meng family.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
厘公元年，以汶阳鄪封季友。
季友为相。
九年，晋里克杀其君傒齐、卓子。
齐桓公率厘公讨晋乱，至高梁而还，立晋惠公。
十七年，齐桓公卒。
二十四年，晋文公即位。
三十三年，厘公卒，子兴立，是为文公。
文公元年，楚太子商臣弑其父成王，代立。
三年，文公朝晋襄公。
十一年十月甲午，鲁败翟于咸，获长翟乔如，富父终甥舂其喉以戈，杀之，埋其首于子驹之门，以命宣伯。
初，宋武公之世，鄋瞒伐宋，司徒皇父帅师御之，以败翟于长丘，获长翟缘斯。
晋之灭路，获乔如弟棼如。
齐惠公二年，鄋瞒伐齐，齐王子城父获其弟荣如，埋其首于北门。
卫人获其季弟简如。
鄋瞒由是遂亡。
十五年，季文子使于晋。
十八年二月，文公卒。
translation: 
In the first year of Li AD, Wenyang and Eyi were granted to Ji You.
Ji You is the prime minister of Lu.
In the ninth year, the official of Jin State, Rick, killed his kings Xi Qi and Zhuo Zi.
Duke Huan of Qi led Duke Lu Li to crusade against the rebellion in Jin. He returned to Gaoliang in Jin and supported Duke Hui of Jin as king.
In the seventeenth year, Duke Huan of Qi passed away.
In the twenty-fourth year, Duke Wen of Jin ascended the throne.
In the thirty-third year, Li Gong died, and his son Xing succeeded him, who was Wen Gong.
In the first year of Emperor Wen's reign, the prince Shangchen of Chu killed his father and became king, and established himself as king.
In the third year, Duke Wen met with Duke Xiang of Jin.
On the Jiawu Day in October of the 11th year, the Lu people defeated the Di people in Xian and captured the chief Di Qiaoru. The nephew of the rich father of Dr. Lu stabbed Qiao Ru in the throat with a sword and killed him. Qiao Ru's head was buried in Zijumen and named Xuanbo after Qiao Ru.
At the beginning, during the reign of Duke Wugong of the Song Dynasty, Shanhou attacked the Song Dynasty. Emperor Situ led his army to resist, defeated the Di people at Changqiu, and captured Chang Di Yuansi.
When the Jin State destroyed the Lu State, they captured Qiao Ru's younger brother Fenru.
In the second year of Duke Hui of Qi, Shanhou attacked Qi State. Prince Chengfu of Qi State captured Qiao Ru's younger brother Rongru and buried his head at the north gate.
The Wei people captured Shan Mao's youngest brother Jian Ru.
Shanmo perished from then on.
In the fifteenth year, Ji Wenzi went to Jin as an envoy.
In February of the eighteenth year, Duke Wen of Lu died.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
文公有二妃：长妃齐女为哀姜，生子恶及视；次妃敬嬴，嬖爱，生子俀。
俀私事襄仲，襄仲欲立之，叔仲曰不可。
襄仲请齐惠公，惠公新立，欲亲鲁，许之。
冬十月，襄仲杀子恶及视而立俀，是为宣公。
哀姜归齐，哭而过市，曰： 天乎！
襄仲为不道，杀适立庶！
市人皆哭，鲁人谓之 哀姜 。
鲁由此公室卑，三桓强。
宣公俀十二年，楚庄王强，围郑。
郑伯降，复国之。
十八年，宣公卒，子成公黑肱立，是为成公。
季文子曰： 使我杀适立庶失大援者，襄仲。
襄仲立宣公，公孙归父有宠。
宣公欲去三桓，与晋谋伐三桓。
会宣公卒，季文子怨之，归父奔齐。
成公二年春，齐伐取我隆。
夏，公与晋郄克败齐顷公于鞍，齐复归我侵地。
translation: 
Duke Wen had two concubines: the eldest concubine Qi was Aijiang, who had a son named Hui Heshi; the second concubine was Jingying, who was very favored and had a son Ceng.
Ceng secretly wooed Xiang Zhong, and Xiang Zhong wanted to make Ceng his king, but Shu Zhong said no.
Xiangzhong asked Duke Hui of Qi for help. Duke Hui of Qi had just ascended the throne and wanted to win over Lu, so he agreed.
In the tenth month of winter, Xiang Zhong killed Xie Yu and appointed Ceng as Lord of Lu, who was Duke Xuan.
Ai Jiang returned to the state of Qi and passed through the busy city wailing, saying: "Oh my God!"
Xiangzhong was so rebellious that he killed his direct descendants and established concubines!
Everyone in the market started crying, and the people of Lu called her Ai Jiang.
From then on, the principality declined, while the Mengsun, Shusun, Jisun, and Sanhuan clans became strong.
In the twelfth year of Xuangong's reign, the king of Chuzhuang became powerful and besieged the state of Zheng.
Zheng Bo surrendered, and King Houzhuang restored the status of Zheng Fengguo.
In the eighteenth year, Duke Xuan died, and his son Cheng Gong Hei Hu succeeded to the throne, becoming Duke Cheng.
Ji Wenzi said: The person who caused our country to kill its legitimate concubines and lose the support of the princes was Xiang Zhong.
After Xiangzhong established Duke Xuan, Xiangzhong's son Gongsun Gui's father was favored by Duke Xuan.
Duke Xuan wanted to get rid of San Huan and discussed with Jin to attack San Huan.
When Duke Xuan died, Ji Wenzi resented Gongsun Gui's father and fled to Qi.
In the spring of the second year of Chenggong, Qi State attacked Lu State and occupied Longyi.
In the summer, Duke Cheng and the Jin Dynasty official Chuoke allied forces to defeat Qi Qinggong's army in Qudi, and Qi State returned the land occupied by me.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
四年，成公如晋，晋景公不敬鲁。
鲁欲背晋合于楚，或谏，乃不。
十年，成公如晋。
晋景公卒，因留成公送葬，鲁讳之。十五年，始与吴王寿梦会钟离。
十六年，宣伯告晋，欲诛季文子。
文子有义，晋人弗许。
十八年，成公卒，子午立，是为襄公。
是时襄公三岁也。
襄公元年，晋立悼公。
往年冬，晋栾书弑其君厉公。
四年，襄公朝晋。
五年，季文子卒。
家无衣帛之妾，厩无食粟之马，府无金玉，以相三君。
君子曰： 季文子廉忠矣。
九年，与晋伐郑。
晋悼公冠襄公于卫，季武子从，相行礼。
十一年，三桓氏分为三军。
十二年，朝晋。
十六年，晋平公即位。
二十一年，朝晋平公。
二十二年，孔丘生。
二十五年，齐崔杼弑其君庄公，立其弟景公。
二十九年，吴延陵季子使鲁，问周乐，尽知其意，鲁人敬焉。
三十一年六月，襄公卒。
其九月，太子卒。
translation: 
In the fourth year of the reign of Duke Cheng of Jin, Duke Jin of Jin did not respect Duke Cheng.
Duke Cheng wanted to betray the alliance between Jin and Chu, but he gave up after being warned against it.
In the tenth year, Duke Cheng came to the state of Jin.
When Duke Jinggong of Jin died, the Jin people left Chenggong to mourn. The Lu people kept the matter secret. In the fifteenth year, Lu had contact with the state of Wu for the first time, and had an alliance meeting with King Shoumeng of Wu in Zhongli.
In the 16th year, Xuanbo asked the Jin State to kill Ji Wenzi.
Because Ji Wenzi was a man of integrity, the people of Jin did not agree to Xuanbo's request.
In the eighteenth year, Duke Cheng died, and his successor Ziwu was Duke Xiang.
At this time, Duke Xiang was only three years old.
In the first year of Xiang Gong, the people of Jin established Mourning Duke as their king.
Last winter, Luan Shu, the official of Jin Dynasty, killed his king, Duke Li.
In the fourth year, Duke Xiang went to the state of Jin for a court meeting.
Five years later, Ji Wenzi died.
There were no concubines wearing silk in his home, no horses eating millet in the stables, and no gold or jade in his mansion. In this way, he served as the prime minister of the king for three generations in a frugal manner.
The gentleman said: Ji Wenzi is so honest and honest!
In the ninth year, Lu and Jin jointly attacked Zheng.
Duke Ao of Jin held a crowning ceremony for Duke Xiang in Wei State, and Ji Wuzi followed him and assisted in holding the crowning ceremony.
In the eleventh year, the Sanhuan clan took control of the three armies of Lu respectively.
In the twelfth year, the court met with the state of Jin.
In the sixteenth year, Duke Ping of Jin came to the throne.
In the twenty-first year, the court met with Duke Ping of Jin.
In the twenty-second year, Confucius was born.
In the twenty-fifth year, Cui Zhu, an official of Qi State, killed his monarch, Duke Zhuang, and made Duke Zhuang's younger brother, Duke Jin, the king of Qi.
In the 29th year, Yanling Jizi of Wu State went to Lu State as an envoy to observe Zhou Dynasty music. He was able to explain all its meanings, and the Lu people respected him very much.
In June of the thirty-first year, Duke Xiang died.
In September of that year, the prince died.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
鲁人立齐归之子裯为君，是为昭公。
昭公年十九，犹有童心。
穆叔不欲立，曰： 太子死，有母弟可立，不即立长。
年钧择贤，义钧则卜之。
今裯ā非适嗣，且又居丧意不在戚而有喜色，若果立，必为季氏忧。
季武子弗听，卒立之。
比及葬，三易衰。
君子曰： 是不终也。
昭公三年，朝晋至河，晋平公谢还之，鲁耻焉。
四年，楚灵王会诸侯于申，昭公称病不往。
七年，季武子卒。
八年，楚灵王就章华台，召昭公。
昭公往贺，赐昭公宝器；已而悔，复诈取之。
十二年，朝晋至河，晋平公谢还之。
十三年，楚公子弃疾弑其君灵王，代立。
十五年，朝晋，晋留之葬晋昭公，鲁耻之。
translation: 
The people of Lu appointed Kuai, the son of Duke Xiang's sister Qi Gui, as Lord of Lu, who was Duke Zhao.
When Zhao Gong was nineteen years old, he was still childish and naughty.
Uncle Mu did not want to make him king, saying: After the death of the prince, his brother from the same mother can be made king. If there is no brother from the same mother, then the eldest son among the concubines can be made king.
Those of the same age should choose their talents, and those with the same talents should be determined by divination.
Now Kuo is not his legitimate son, and he is not sad when he is in mourning, but is happy. If he is really raised, it will be a worry for the Ji family.
Ji Wuzi refused to listen and finally made Kuai the king.
By the time Duke Xiang was buried, three mourning clothes had been worn out due to naughtiness.
The gentleman says: This man will not die well.
In the third year of Duke Zhao, he went to the Yellow River to pay homage to Jin. Duke Ping of Jin politely refused and asked Duke Zhao to return. The people of Lu felt it was a shame.
In the fourth year, King Ling of Chu asked the princes to go to Shendi for an alliance meeting, but Duke Zhao claimed that he was ill and could not go.
In the seventh year, Ji Wuzi died.
In the eighth year, King Ling of Chu built Zhanghua Terrace and summoned Duke Zhao.
Duke Zhao went to congratulate him, and King Ling gave him a treasure. Later, he regretted it and got it back by deception.
In the twelfth year, Duke Zhao of Jin visited the Yellow River. Duke Ping of Jin declined again and Duke Zhao returned.
In the thirteenth year, Chu Gongzi abandoned his illness and killed his king, King Ling, and established himself as King of Chu.
In the fifteenth year, Duke Zhao came to visit Jin State, and the people of Jin left him to bury Duke Zhao of Jin. The people of Lu felt it was a shame.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
二十年，齐景公与晏子狩竟，因入鲁问礼。
二十一年，朝晋至河，晋谢还之。
二十五年春，鸜鹆来巢。
师己曰： 文成之世童谣曰 鸜鹆来巢，公在干侯。
鸜鹆入处，公在外野 。
季氏与郈氏斗鸡，季氏芥鸡羽，郈氏金距。
季平子怒而侵郈氏，郈昭伯亦怒平子。
臧昭伯之弟会伪谗臧氏，匿季氏，臧昭伯囚季氏人。
季平子怒，囚臧氏老。
臧、郈氏以难告昭公。
昭公九月戊戌伐季氏，遂入。
平子登台请曰： 君以谗不察臣罪，诛之，请迁沂上。
弗许。
请囚于鄪，弗许。
请以五乘亡，弗许。
子家驹曰： 君其许之。
translation: 
Twenty years ago, Qi Jinggong and Yanzi were patrolling the border and stopped by the state of Lu to inquire about etiquette.
In the 21st year, Duke Zhao went to the Yellow River to meet the Jin State. Jin State declined and Zhao Gong returned.
In the spring of the twenty-fifth year, a robin came to nest in the country of Lu.
Master Ji said: Wen Gong and Cheng Gong had a nursery rhyme that said: The robin comes to nest in the state of Lu, and the king goes to live in Qianhou.
The robin lives in the house, and the king goes to the wild.
The Ji family and the He family fight cocks. The Ji family puts iron armor on the chickens, and the He family puts metal claws on the chickens.
Ji Pingzi was very angry because of the failure of the cockfight, so he invaded the Xi family's property. He Zhaobo also resented Ji Pingzi very much.
Zang Zhaobo's younger brother Zang Hui pretended to frame Zang and hid in Ji's home. Zang Zhaobo imprisoned the Ji family.
Ji Pingzi was very angry and imprisoned Zang's retainer Zai.
Zang and He told Duke Zhao of the disaster their family had suffered.
So Duke Zhao attacked the Ji family on Wuxu Day in the ninth month and invaded his home.
Pingzi climbed up to the high platform and asked: "The king did not realize my sins because of his slander and came to kill me. Please allow me to be exiled to the edge of Yishui River."
Duke Zhao did not allow it.
He also requested that he be imprisoned in Eyi, but Duke Zhao did not allow it.
He asked again to allow him to escape with five cars, but Zhao Gong still did not allow it.
Zi Jiaju said: The king should agree with him.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
政自季氏久矣，为徒者众，众将合谋。
弗听。
郈氏曰： 必杀之。
叔孙氏之臣戾谓其众曰： 无季氏与有，孰利？
皆曰： 无季氏是无叔孙氏。
戾曰： 然，救季氏！
遂败公师。
孟懿子闻叔孙氏胜，亦杀郈昭伯。
郈昭伯为公使，故孟氏得之。
三家共伐公，公遂奔。
己亥，公至于齐。
齐景公曰： 请致千社待君。
子家曰： 弃周公之业而臣于齐，可乎？
乃止。
子家曰： 齐景公无信，不如早之晋。
弗从。
叔孙见公还，见平子，平子顿首。
初欲迎昭公，孟孙、季孙后悔，乃止。
二十六年春，齐伐鲁，取郓而居昭公焉。
夏，齐景公将内公，令无受鲁赂。
translation: 
The state affairs of Lu State have been in the hands of the Ji family for a long time. They have many party members, and those people will unite to deal with you.
Duke Zhao did not listen.
Mr. He said: He must be killed.
Shusun's retainer Ruan said to his subordinates: Which situation is more beneficial to us, without the Ji family or with the Ji family?
Everyone said: Without the Ji family, there would be no Shusun family.
Ru then said, "In this case, let's go rescue Ji's family!"
So he defeated Duke Zhao's army.
When Meng Yizi heard that Shusun's family had won the battle, he also pursued Bo Zhaobo.
Zhaobo Li was sent to the Meng family as an envoy of Duke Zhao, so the Meng family captured him.
The three families jointly attacked Duke Zhao, who fled abroad.
On the day of Jihai, Duke Zhao fled to Qi.
Duke Jin of Qi said to Duke Zhao: I am willing to give a thousand houses to receive the king.
Zi Jia said: "Is it okay to give up Zhou Gong's inheritance and surrender to Qi?"
So this behavior stopped.
Zi Jia said: Qi Jinggong is not trustworthy, so it is better to go to Jin as soon as possible.
Duke Zhao did not listen.
Shusun went to the state of Qi to see Duke Zhao and then returned to the state of Lu. He went to see Pingzi, and Pingzi kowtowed.
At first, they wanted to welcome Duke Zhao back, but Meng Sun and Ji Sun regretted it and did not do so.
In the spring of the 26th year, Qi attacked Lu and occupied Yunyi, allowing Duke Zhao of Lu to live there.
In the summer, Duke Jin of Qi wanted to escort Duke Zhao back to his country by force, and ordered his subordinates not to accept gifts from Lu.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
申丰、汝贾许齐臣高龁、子将粟五千庾。
子将言于齐侯曰： 群臣不能事鲁君，有异焉。
宋元公为鲁如晋，求内之，道卒。
叔孙昭子求内其君，无病而死。
不知天弃鲁乎？抑鲁君有罪于鬼神也？
愿君且待。
齐景公从之。
二十八年，昭公如晋，求入。
季平子私于晋六卿，六卿受季氏赂，谏晋君，晋君乃止，居昭公干侯。
二十九年，昭公如郓。
齐景公使人赐昭公书，自谓 主君 。
昭公耻之，怒而去干侯。
三十一年，晋欲内昭公，召季平子。
平子布衣跣行，因六卿谢罪。
六卿为言曰： 晋欲内昭公，众不从。
晋人止。
三十二年，昭公卒于干侯。
鲁人共立昭公弟宋为君，是为定公。
定公立，赵简子问史墨曰： 季氏亡乎？
史墨对曰： 不亡。
季友有大功于鲁，受鄪为上卿，至于文子、武子，世增其业。
鲁文公卒，东门遂杀适立庶，鲁君于是失国政。
translation: 
Doctors Shen Feng and Ru Jia of Lu promised to give 80,000 dou of grain to Doctor Gao Lu and Zijiang of Qi.
The general said to the Marquis of Qi: The ministers of Lu disobey the Lord of Lu, and there are strange phenomena.
Duke Yuan of Song Dynasty went to Jin State to ask for help for Duke Zhao of Lu, and wanted to support Duke Zhao in returning to the country, but died on the way.
Uncle Sun Zhaozi asked Lu Jun to return to his country and died without illness.
I wonder if God abandoned Lu Jun, or did he offend ghosts and gods?
Please wait and see.
Qi Jinggong obeyed his words.
In the twenty-eighth year, Duke Zhao went to Jin and asked for support in returning to the country to become king.
Ji Pingzi bribed the six ministers of Jin. The six ministers accepted Ji's gift and went to admonish the king of Jin. The king of Jin no longer insisted and only allowed Zhaogong to live in Qianhou.
In the twenty-ninth year, Duke Zhao came to Yunyi.
Duke Jinggong of Qi sent someone to deliver a letter to Duke Zhao, in which he called Duke Zhao "the Lord".
Duke Zhao felt it was a shame and went to Qianhou again in anger.
In the thirty-first year, the people of Jin wanted to support Duke Zhao in returning to Lu, so they summoned Ji Pingzi.
Ji Pingzi walked barefoot in common clothes and apologized to the six ministers.
Liuqing spoke for Ji Pingzi and said: Although Jin supports Duke Zhao, the people of Lu are unwilling.
Jin Jun gave up.
In the thirty-second year, Duke Zhao died in Qianhou.
The people of Lu jointly established Zhaogong's younger brother Song as their king, who was named Dinggong.
After Duke Ding was established, Zhao Jianzi asked Shi Mo: Will the Ji family perish?
Shi Mo replied: It will not perish.
Ji You made great contributions to the state of Lu, and was granted the title of Shangqing in Eyi. He continued to expand his business through generations until Wenzi and Wuzi.
After Duke Wen of Lu passed away, Dongmen killed his legitimate son and made his concubine the king of Lu. The king of Lu lost his political power.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
政在季氏，于今四君矣。
民不知君，何以得国！
是以为君慎器与名，不可以假人。
定公五年，季平子卒。
阳虎私怒，囚季桓子，与盟，乃舍之。
七年，齐伐我，取郓，以为鲁阳虎邑以从政。
八年，阳虎欲尽杀三桓适，而更立其所善庶子以代之；载季桓子将杀之，桓子诈而得脱。
三桓共攻阳虎，阳虎居阳关。
九年，鲁伐阳虎，阳虎奔齐，已而奔晋赵氏。
十年，定公与齐景公会于夹谷，孔子行相事。
齐欲袭鲁君，孔子以礼历阶，诛齐淫乐，齐侯惧，乃止，归鲁侵地而谢过。
十二年，使仲由毁三桓城，收其甲兵。
孟氏不肯堕城，伐之，不克而止。
translation: 
The national affairs are controlled by the Ji family, and so far there have been four monarchs.
The people don't know their king. How does the king control the administrative power of the country?
Because of this, the monarch should treat the country's vehicles, equipment, titles and titles with caution, and should not give them to others easily.
In the fifth year of Duke Dinggong's reign, Ji Pingzi died.
Yang Hu had private resentment, imprisoned Ji Huanzi, and made a covenant with him before releasing him.
In the seventh year, the Qi army attacked the state of Lu, captured Yunyi, made it a fiefdom for Yanghu of the state of Lu, and allowed him to participate in political affairs.
In eight years, Yang Hu wanted to kill all the direct heirs of San Huan and replace the direct heirs with concubines who were closely related to him. Yang Hu drove Ji Huanzi in a car and took the opportunity to kill him, but Huanzi used deception to escape.
Sanhuan united to attack Yanghu, and Yanghu occupied Yangguan.
In the ninth year, the people of Lu attacked Yang Hu, and Yang Hu fled to Qi, and soon went to join the Zhao family of Jin.
In the tenth year, Duke Dinggong and Duke Jinggong of Qi met in Jiagu, and Confucius presided over the ceremony.
The Qi people wanted to attack Dinggong, but Confucius climbed up the steps according to etiquette and punished Qi State Qin's licentious music lovers. The Qi Marquis was afraid and did not dare to attack Dinggong. He also returned the occupied land of Lu State to apologize.
In the twelfth year, Zhongyou was sent to demolish the city walls of the Sanhuan family and confiscate their armor and weapons.
Meng refused to demolish the city, so Dinggong sent troops to attack, but he gave up because he could not win.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
季桓子受齐女乐，孔子去。
十五年，定公卒，子将立，是为哀公。
哀公五年，齐景公卒。
六年，齐田乞弑其君孺子。
七年，吴王夫差强，伐齐，至缯，征百牢于鲁。
季康子使子贡说吴王及太宰嚭，以礼诎之。
吴王曰： 我文身，不足责礼。
乃止。
八年，吴为邹伐鲁，至城下，盟而去。齐伐我，取三邑。
十年，伐齐南边。
十一年，齐伐鲁。
季氏用冉有有功，思孔子，孔子自卫归鲁。
十四年，齐田常弑其君简公于俆州。
孔子请伐之，哀公不听。
十五年，使子服景伯、子贡为介，适齐，齐归我侵地。
田常初相，欲亲诸侯。
十六年，孔子卒。
二十二年，越王句践灭吴王夫差。
translation: 
Ji Huanzi accepted the beautiful musicians from Qi, and Confucius left Lu.
In the fifteenth year, Duke Ding died and his son, Duke Ai, succeeded him.
In the fifth year of Duke Ai, Duke Jin of Qi passed away.
In the sixth year, Qi doctor Tian Qi killed his king and his son.
In the seventh year, King Fu Chai of Wu was very powerful and sent troops to attack Qi State. When they arrived at Zhuangdi, they levied a hundred cattle, sheep and pigs each from the Lu people.
Ji Kangzi sent Zigong to persuade King Wu and Dazai Pi and refute them according to etiquette.
King Wu said: I am a barbarian with cut hair and tattoos. Don't use the etiquette of the Central Plains to scold me.
So he stopped asking for money from the people of Lu.
In the eighth year, the state of Wu attacked Lu for the state of Zou. When they reached the city, they made an alliance with Lu and left. Qi attacked Lu and occupied Sanyi.
In ten years, Lu attacked the southern border of Qi.
In the eleventh year, Qi attacked Lu again.
Ji's appointment of Ran was very effective, so he missed Confucius, so Confucius defended his country and returned to Lu.
In the fourteenth year, Qi State official Tian Chang killed Qi Jun Jian Gong in Chuzhou.
Confucius asked Duke Ai to send troops to conquer Tian Chang, but Duke Ai refused.
In the fifteenth year, he sent Zifu Jingbo as an envoy and Zigong as his deputy to the State of Qi. Qi returned the land invaded by Lu.
Tian Chang was the Prime Minister of Qi at the beginning and wanted to be friendly with the princes, so he did this.
In the sixteenth year, Confucius passed away.
In the twenty-second year, King Gou Jian of Yue destroyed King Fu Cha of Wu.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
二十七年春，季康子卒。
夏，哀公患三桓，将欲因诸侯以劫之，三桓亦患公作难，故君臣多间。
公游于陵坂，遇孟武伯于街，曰： 请问余及死乎？
对曰： 不知也。
公欲以越伐三桓。
八月，哀公如陉氏。
三桓攻公，公奔于卫，去如邹，遂如越。
国人迎哀公复归，卒于有山氏。
子宁立，是为悼公。
悼公之时，三桓胜，鲁如小侯，卑于三桓之冢。
十三年，三晋灭智伯，分其地有之。
三十七年，悼公卒，子嘉立，是为元公。
元公二十一年卒，子显立，是为穆公。
穆公三十三年卒，子奋立，是为共公。
共公二十二年卒，子屯立，是为康公。
康公九年卒，子匽立，是为景公。
景公二十九年卒，子叔立，是为平公。
是时六国皆称王。
平公十二年，秦惠王卒。
二十年，平公卒，子贾立，是为文公。
文公元年，楚怀王死于秦。
二十三年，文公卒，子雠立，是为顷公。
顷公二年，秦拔楚之郢，楚顷王东徙于陈。
translation: 
In the spring of the twenty-seventh year, Ji Kangzi passed away.
In the summer, Duke Ai of Lu believed that Sanhuan was a worry to the state of Lu, and wanted to use the power of the princes to deprive Sanhuan of his rights. Sanhuan was also worried that Duke Ai would cause trouble, so there were many barriers between the monarch and his ministers.
Duke Ai went on a trip to Lingban and met Uncle Meng Wu on the street. Duke Ai said, "Am I about to die?"
Meng Wubo replied: I don't know.
Duke Ai wanted to use the power of the Yue people to attack Sanhuan.
In the eighth month, Duke Ai came to Xingshi.
Sanhuan attacked Duke Ai, who fled to Wei State, then to Zou State, and then to Yue State.
The people of Lu welcomed Duke Ai back to Lu, and Duke Ai finally died in the home of the Youshan family.
His son Ning ascended the throne and was Duke Mourning.
During the reign of Duke Ai, Sanhuan was strong and powerful, and the king of Lu was like a small prince, even more humble than the Sanhuan family.
In the thirteenth year, Han, Zhao, Wei and the Jin Dynasty destroyed Zhibo and divided the land among the three families.
In the thirty-seventh year, Duke Yu died, and his son Jia succeeded him as Duke Yuan.
Yuan Gong died in the 21st year, and his son succeeded him, namely Mu Gong.
Duke Mu died in the 33rd year, and his son succeeded him as Gong Gong.
When Gong Gong died in the 22nd year, his son Tun succeeded to the throne and became Kang Gong.
Kang Gong died in the ninth year, and his son Jinggong succeeded to the throne.
Jinggong died in the 29th year, and his son succeeded him, namely Pinggong.
At this time, all the six countries claimed to be kings.
In the 12th year of Ping Gong, King Hui of Qin passed away.
Twenty years later, Duke Ping died, and his son Jia succeeded him as Duke Wen.
In the first year of Emperor Wen's reign, King Huai of Chu died in Qin.
In the twenty-third year, Duke Wen passed away, and his son, Qing Gong, succeeded him.
In the second year of Qinggong, Qin conquered the capital of Chu State, Ying, and King Qing of Chu moved his capital eastward to Chen.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
十九年，楚伐我，取徐州。
二十四年，楚考烈王伐灭鲁。
顷公亡，迁于下邑，为家人，鲁绝祀。
顷公卒于柯。
鲁起周公至顷公，凡三十四世。
太史公曰：余闻孔子称曰 甚矣鲁道之衰也！
洙泗之间龂龂如也 。
观庆父及叔牙闵公之际，何其乱也。
隐桓之事；襄仲杀适立庶；三家北面为臣，亲攻昭公，昭公以奔。
至其揖让之礼则从矣，而行事何其戾也？
translation: 
In the 19th year, Chu defeated Lu, and the war zone was Xuzhou.
In the twenty-fourth year, King Kaolie of Chu conquered Lu.
Qinggong fled, moved to a small town outside the capital, and became a commoner. The sacrifices of the state of Lu were extinct.
Qinggong died in Keyi.
The state of Lu had thirty-four generations in total, from Duke Zhou to Duke Qing.
Tai Shigong said: I heard that Confucius once said that the morality of the state of Lu was really in decline!
People in Zhushui and Surabaya argued and argued endlessly.
Look at how chaotic the state of Lu was when Qingfu, Shuya and Min Gong came to the throne!
The succession of Duke Huan and Duke Yin occurred; Xiang Zhong killed his legitimate concubine; Meng Sun, Shu Sun, and Ji Sun were ministers, but they personally attacked Zhao Gong, causing Zhao Gong to flee.
Although they have always followed the etiquette of courtesy, their actual behavior is so contrary to this!


