Chunk 0: 
original: 
刘玄字圣公，光武族兄也。
弟为人所杀，圣公结客欲报之。
客犯法，圣公避吏于平林。
吏系圣公父子张。
圣公诈死，使人持丧归舂陵，吏乃出子张，圣公因自逃匿。
王莽末，南方饥馑，人庶群入野泽，掘凫茈而食之，更相侵夺。
新市人王匡、王凤为平理诤讼，遂推为渠帅，众数百人。
于是诸亡命马武、王常、成丹等往从之；共攻离乡聚，臧于绿林中，数月间至七八千人。
地皇二年，荆州牧某发奔命二万人攻之，匡等相率迎击于云杜，大破牧军，杀数千人，尽获辎重，遂攻拔竟陵。
转击云杜、安陆，多略妇女，还入绿林中，至有五万余口，州郡不能制。
三年，大疾疫，死者且半，乃各分散引去。
王常、成丹西入南郡，号下江兵；王匡、王凤、马武及其支常朱鲔、张卬等北入南阳，号新市兵：皆自称将军。
七月，匡等进攻随，未能下。
平林人陈牧、廖湛复聚众千余人，号平林兵，以应之。
圣公因往从牧等，为其军安集掾。
是时，光武及兄伯升亦起舂陵，与诸部合兵而进。
四年正月，破王莽前队大夫甄阜、属正梁丘赐，斩之，号圣公为更始将军。
众虽多而无所统一，诸将遂共议立更始为天子。
二月辛巳，设坛场于淯水上沙中，陈兵大会。
更始即帝位，南面立，朝群臣。
素懦弱，羞愧流汗，举手不能言。
于是大赦天下，建元曰更始元年。
悉拜置诸将，以族父良为国三老、王匡为定国上公、王凤成国上公、朱鲔大司马、伯升大司徒、陈牧大司空，余皆九卿、将军。
五朋，伯升拔宛。
translation: 
Liu Xuan, also known as Shenggong, was the elder brother of Emperor Guangwu.
Because his younger brother was killed, he made friends with guests and prepared to avenge his brother.
The guests broke the law, and Liu Xuan fled to Pinglin to avoid being pursued by the officials.
Officials arrested his father Liu Zizhang.
Liu Xuan pretended to be dead and had his coffin carried back to Chongling. The officials released Liu Zizhang, and Liu Xuan fled.
In the last years of Wang Mang, there was a famine in the south. People went to the wild swamps in groups to dig some water chestnuts to satisfy their hunger, and even robbed each other.
Wang Kuang and Wang Feng from Xinshi often mediate for them and were promoted as leaders, followed by hundreds of people.
So some people who were on the run, such as Ma Wu, Wang Chang, Cheng Dan and others, went to join them to attack Li Xiangju and hid in the green forest mountains. In a few months, the team grew to seven or eight thousand people.
In the second year of Emperor Wang Mang's reign, someone from Jingzhou Mu sent 20,000 "Ben Ming soldiers" to attack them. Wang Kuang and others led their troops to attack them in Yundu. They defeated Jingzhou Mu's army, killed thousands of people, seized all the enemy's military equipment, and then captured Jingling.
They turned to attack Yundu and Anlu, plundered many women, and returned to the Green Forest Mountains. By now there were more than 50,000 people, and the prefectures and counties could no longer control them.
In the third year of the Emperor's reign, a great plague occurred. Nearly half of the people in Green Forest Mountain died, and the teams dispersed.
Wang Chang and Cheng Dan went west to Nanjun and were known as "Xiajiang soldiers"; Wang Kuang, Wang Feng, Ma Wu and their followers Zhu Tun, Zhang Xian and others marched north to Nanyang and were known as "Xinshi soldiers"; the generals all called themselves generals.
In July, Wang Kuang and others attacked Suixian but failed to capture it.
Chen Mu and Liao Zhan from Pinglin gathered more than a thousand people, known as "Pinglin soldiers", to respond to Wang Kuang's troops.
Liu Xuan defected to Chen Mu and others, and served as an Jipu in the army.
At the same time, Emperor Guangwu and his brother Liu Boxheng also raised troops in Chongling and joined forces with various insurrectionary forces to attack.
In the first month of the fourth year of Emperor Di Huang's reign, he defeated the troops commanded by Wang Mang's former officer Zhen Fu and Zhengliang Qiuci, and killed them. Liu Xuan was promoted to General Gengshi.
Although there were many troops in the uprising, there was no unified leadership, so the generals discussed together to make Liu Xuan the emperor.
On the Xinsi day of February, a mandala was set up on the beach of Feishui to gather troops and horses.
Liu Xuan ascended the throne of God and stood facing south to meet the officials.
Liu Xuan has always been a coward, and he was so ashamed that he was sweating profusely. He raised his hands but couldn't even say a word.
After that, a general amnesty was given to the whole country, and Jianyuan was the first year of Gengshi.
All the generals were granted official titles, including his uncle Liu Liang as the third elder of the country, Wang Kuang as the Grand Duke of Dingguo, Wang Feng as the Grand Duke of Chengguo, Zhu Kun as Grand Sima, Liu Bo was promoted to Grand Situ, Chen Mu was promoted to Grand Sikong, and the rest were granted the title of Jiuqing or General.
In May, Liu Boxheng captured Wancheng.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
六月，更始入都宛城，尽封宗室及诸将，为列侯者百余人。
更始忌伯升威名，遂诛之，以光禄勋刘赐为大司徒。
前钟武侯刘望起兵，略有汝南。
时王莽纳言将军严尤、秩宗将军陈藏既败于昆阳，往归之。
八月，望遂自立为天子，以尤为大司马、茂为丞相。
王莽使太师王匡、国将哀章守洛阳。
更始遣定国上公王匡攻洛阳，西屏大将军申屠建、丞相司值李松攻武关，三辅震动。
是时海内豪桀翕然响应，皆杀其牧守，自称将军，用汉年号，以待诏命，旬月之间，遍于天下。
长安中起兵攻未央官。
九月，东海人公宾就斩王莽于渐台，收玺绶，传首诣宛。
更始时在便坐黄堂，取视之，喜曰： 莽不如是，当与霍光等。 宠姬韩夫人笑曰： 若不如是，帝焉得之乎？ 更始悦，乃悬莽首于宛城市。
是月，拔洛阳，生缚王匡、哀章，至，皆斩之。
十月，使奋威大将军刘信击杀刘望于汝南，并诛严尤、陈茂。
更始遂北都洛阳，以刘赐为丞相。
申屠建、李松自长安传送乘舆服御，又遣中黄门从官奉迎迁都。
二年二月，更始自洛阳而西。
初发，李松奉引，马惊奔，触北宫铁柱门，三马皆死。
初，王莽败，唯未央宫被焚而已，其余宫馆一无所毁。
宫女数千，备列后庭，自钟鼓、帷帐、舆辇、器服、太仓、武库、官府、市里，不改于旧。
更始既至，居长乐宫，升前殿，郎吏以次列庭中。
更始羞怍，俯首刮席不敢视。
乃徙鲔为左大司马，刘赐为前大司马，使与李轶、李通、王常等镇抚关东。以李松为丞相，赵萌为右大司马，共秉内任。更始纳赵萌女为夫人，有宠，遂委政于萌，日夜与妇人饮宴后庭。
translation: 
In June, Emperor Gengshi entered Wancheng to establish his capital. His fellow clan members and generals all conferred titles to him one by one, and more than 100 people were granted the title of marquis.
Emperor Gengshi was jealous of Liu Boxheng's prestige and reputation, so he killed him and appointed Guanglu Xun and Liu Ci as the chief disciple.
Liu Wang, Marquis of Zhongwu in the former Han Dynasty, also led an uprising and captured Runan.
At this time, Wang Mang's Nayan general Yan You and Zhizong general Chen Mao were defeated miserably in the battle of Kunyang and surrendered to Liu Wang.
In August, Liu Wang established himself as emperor, with Yan You as Grand Sima and Chen Mao as Prime Minister.
Wang Mang sent Grand Master Wang Kuang and General Aizhang to defend Luoyang.
Emperor Gengshi sent Prince Kuang of Dingguo to attack Luoyang, General Shen Tujian of Xiping, and Prime Minister Sizhi Li Song attacked Wuguan. The entire Sanfu area was shaken.
At this time, heroes from all over the country rose up in response, killed the governors of the prefectures and counties, proclaimed themselves generals, adopted the reign name of Gengshi, and waited for the emperor's edict. In less than a month, supporters of Emperor Gengshi spread all over the country.
The rebels in Chang'an City also attacked Weiyang Palace.
In September, the Duke of Donghai killed Wang Mang in Jiantai, confiscated the jade seal and ribbon, and sent Wang Mang's head to Wancheng.
Emperor Gengshi was sitting in the public hall at that time. He took the head and looked at it, and said happily: If Wang Mang had not usurped the power of the Han Dynasty, his merits should be the same as Huo Guang. Mrs. Han, the concubine, smiled and said: If he didn't do this, how could you get this position? Emperor Gengshi was very happy and hung Wang Mang's head in the market of Wancheng.
That month, they captured Luoyang, captured Wang Kuang and Aizhang alive, sent them to Wancheng, and beheaded them all.
In October, he sent Fenwei General Liu Xin to Runan to attack Liu Wang and killed Yan You and Chen Mao.
So Emperor Gengshi went north to make his capital Luoyang and appointed Liu Ci as prime minister.
Shen Tujian and Li Song sent the emperor's vehicles, clothing and utensils from Chang'an, and sent officials from Zhonghuangmen to welcome Gengshi's move to the capital.
In February of the second year of Gengshi, Emperor Gengshi moved west from Luoyang.
Before setting off, Li Song guided the carriages and horses for Emperor Gengshi. The horses were frightened and ran wildly, hitting the iron pillars of the North Palace Gate. All three horses were killed.
When Wang Mang was defeated, only Weiyang Palace was burned down, while the rest of the palace buildings were intact.
There are still thousands of maids left in the harem, and everything from the bells and drums, curtains, carriages, utensils, and clothing to Taicang, arsenals, government offices, streets, and lanes are all the same as in the old days.
After Emperor Gengshi entered the palace, he lived in Changle Palace and met hundreds of officials in the front hall. The ministers and officials in the palace lined up and stood in the courtyard.
Emperor Gengshi was very shy. He lowered his head and scratched the seats with his hands, not daring to look at them.
Several generals were late, and Emperor Gengshi asked them how much they had looted. The officials on the left and right, all old guards in the palace, were surprised and looked at each other. Emperor Gengshi married Zhao Meng's daughter as his wife and doted on her very much, so he entrusted Zhao Meng with the government and drank and had fun with the woman in the back court day and night.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
群臣欲言事，辄醉不能见，时不得已，乃令侍中坐帷内与语。
诸将识非更始声，出皆怨曰： 成败未可知，遽自纵放若此！ 韩夫人尤嗜酒，每侍饮，见常侍奏事，辄怒曰： 帝方对我饮，正用此时持事来乎！ 起，抵破书案，赵萌专权，威福自己。
郎吏有说萌放纵者，更始怒，拔剑击之。
自是无复敢言。
萌私忿侍中，引下斩之，更始救请，不从。
时李轶、朱鲔擅命山东，王匡、张卬横暴三辅。
其所授官爵者，皆群小贾竖，或有膳夫庖人，多着绣面衣、锦裤、襜褕、诸于，骂詈道中。长安为之语曰： 灶下养，中郎将。
烂羊胃，骑都尉。
烂羊头，关内侯。
军帅将军豫章李淑上书谏曰：
方今贼寇始诛，王化未行，百官有司宜慎其任。
夫三公上应台宿，九卿下括河海，故天工人其代之。
陛下定业，虽因下江、平林之势，斯盖临时济用，不可施之既安。
宜厘改制度，更延英俊，因才授爵，以匡王国。
今公卿大位莫非戎陈，尚书显官皆出庸伍，资亭长、贼捕之用，而当辅佐纲维之任。
唯名与器，圣人所重。
今以所重加非其人，望其毗益万分，兴化致理，譬犹缘木求鱼，升山采珠。
海内望此，有以窥度汉祚。
臣非有憎疾以求进也，但为陛下惜此举厝。
败材伤锦，所宜至虑。
惟割既往廖妄之失，思隆周文济济之美。
更始怒，系淑诏狱。
自是，关中离心，四方怨叛。
诸将出征，各自专置牧守，州郡交错，不知所从。
十二月，赤眉西入关。
三年正月，平陵人方望立前孺子刘婴为天子。
translation: 
When the ministers reported something, he was too drunk to receive them. As a last resort, he asked the servants to sit inside the curtain and talk to the ministers.
Zhao Meng, on the other hand, is dictatorial and domineering.
Someone among the officials reported that Zhao Meng was indulgent. Emperor Gengshi was very angry and drew his sword and killed him.
No one dared to mention it again.
Zhao Meng had a personal grudge with a servant and wanted to drag the servant out to kill him. Emperor Gengshi requested to let the servant go, but Zhao Meng refused.
At this time, Li Yi and Zhu Kun were acting dictatorially in the Shandong area, while Wang Kuang and Zhang Yan were tyrannical in the Sanfu area.
The officials appointed by Emperor Gengshi were all villains, traders, cooks and butchers, and most of them wore flowery coats, flowery trousers, long blouses, or loose tops worn by women, and they made noises and curses on the road. Someone in Chang'an City made up a ballad and said: "Raise under the stove, and the general will be in charge."
Rotten sheep stomach, riding captain.
Rotten sheep head, the Marquis of Guannei.
Li Shu, the commander-in-chief and a native of Yuzhang, wrote a letter to remonstrate:
General Li Shu, a native of Yuzhang, wrote a letter to advise: Now that the bandits have just been eliminated and the royal education has not yet been implemented, we should be careful in appointing hundreds of officials and subordinates.
The Three Lords go up to respond to the stars in the sky, and the Nine Qings send down laws to the rivers and lakes, so people only act on behalf of the sky.
Your Majesty, you have accomplished great things. Although you have relied on the power of Xiajiang and Pinglin soldiers, this is only for a temporary purpose and cannot be continued after the world is stable.
Now we should reform the system, recruit talented people, and grant official positions to talented people, so that we can rectify the kingdom.
Nowadays, no high position like Gongqing is held by military generals, and even prominent officials like Shangshu are just mediocre people. These people were only talented enough to serve as pavilion chiefs and catch thieves, but they shouldered the important task of assisting Chao Gang in state affairs.
What the saint values ​​is his reputation and his utensils.
Now entrusting this most important thing to inappropriate people and expecting them to be helpful to the country, to revitalize education, and to govern the country is like climbing a tree to catch fish or climbing a mountain to pick pearls.
When people in the world see this situation, they will inevitably secretly plot to subjugate the Han Dynasty.
It’s not that I hate being jealous of certain people and want to seek promotion, but I deeply regret His Majesty’s actions.
Appointing incompetent people will mess up the country. This is the most important thing to consider.
I hope to correct the absurd and arrogant mistakes of the past, and pursue the beauty of the prosperous age when King Wen of Zhou was able to stabilize the country with the help of many wise men.
Emperor Gengshi was furious and imprisoned Li Shu.
From then on, people in Guanzhong turned away from each other, and people in all directions resented betraying the imperial court.
When the generals went out to fight, they each appointed prefectures, pastors, and county guards. The prefectures and counties established were intertwined with each other, and the people did not know whose instructions to follow.
In December, the red eyebrow army entered the pass westward.
In the first month of the third year, Fang Wang, a native of Pingling, made his former son Liu Ying the emperor.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
初，望见更始政乱，度其必败，谓安陵人弓林等曰： 前定安公婴，平帝之嗣，虽王莽篡夺，而尝为汉主。
今皆云刘氏真人，当更受命，欲共定大功，何如？ 林等然之，乃于长安求得婴，将至临泾立之。
聚党数千人，望为丞相，林为大司马。
更始遣李松与讨难将军苏茂等击破，皆斩之。
又使苏茂拒赤眉于弘农，茂军败，死者千余人。
三月，遣李松会朱鲔与赤眉战于蓩乡，松等大败，弃军走，死者三万余人。
时王匡、张卬守河东，为邓禹所破，还奔长安。
卬与诸将议曰： 赤眉近在郑、华阴间，旦暮且至。
今独有长安，见灭不久，不如勒兵掠城中以自富，转攻所在，东归南阳，收宛王等兵。
事若不集，复入湖池中为盗耳。 申屠建、廖湛等皆以为然，共人说更始。
更始怒不应，莫敢复言。
及赤眉立刘盆子，更始使王匡、陈牧、成丹、赵萌屯新丰，李松军掫，以拒之。
张卬、廖湛、胡殷、申屠建等与御史大夫隗嚣合谋，欲以立秋日貙膢时共劫更始，俱成前计。
侍中刘能卿知其谋，以告之。
更始托病不出，召张卬等。
卬等皆入，将悉诛之，唯隗嚣不至。
更始狐疑，使卬等四人且待于外庐。
卬与湛、殷疑有变，遂突出，独申屠建在，更始斩之。
卬与湛、殷遂勒兵掠东西市。
昏时，烧门入，战于宫中，更始大败。
明旦，将妻子车骑百余，东奔越萌于新丰。
更始复疑王匡、陈牧、成丹与张卬等同谋，乃并召入。
牧、丹先至，即斩之。
王匡惧，将兵入长安，与张卬等合。
李松还从更始，与赵萌共攻匡、卬于城内。
连战月余，匡等败走，更始徙居长信宫。
赤眉至高陵，匡等迎降之，遂共连兵而进。
更始守城，使李松出战，败，死者二千余人，赤眉生得松。
translation: 
At the beginning, Fang Wang saw the political chaos in Gengshi and speculated that he would be defeated, so he told Gong Lin and others from Anling: The former Ding'an Duke Liu Ying was a descendant of Emperor Ping. Although Wang Mang usurped the throne, Liu Ying was also the leader of the Han Dynasty.
Now people are saying that the direct descendant of the Liu family should be appointed emperor. Let's come together to build a great cause with him. What do you think? Gong Lin and others agreed. So he found Liu Ying in Chang'an and took him to Linjing to formally establish him as emperor.
Gathering thousands of party members, Fang Wang became Prime Minister and Gong Lin became Grand Sima.
Gengshi sent Li Song and general Su Mao to defeat Fang Wang and others, killing several of them.
He also ordered Su Mao to resist Chimei in Hongnong. Su Mao's army was defeated and more than a thousand people died.
In March, Li Song was sent to join Zhu Tuna and Chimei to fight in Guixiang. Li Song and others were defeated, abandoned the army and fled, with more than 30,000 people killed.
At this time, Wang Kuang and Zhang Xuan were stationed in Hedong. They were defeated by Deng Yu and rushed back to Chang'an.
Zhang discussed with the generals and said: "Red Eyebrow is close to the underworld of Zheng and Hua, and will be here day and night."
Now there is only Chang'an, which is about to be wiped out. It is better to command the army to plunder the property in the city to make a fortune, then attack the places along the way from here, return east to Nanyang, and collect the soldiers of King Wan and others.
If things don't work out, just go into the lake and become a robber again. Shen Tujian, Liao Zhan and others all agreed, so they went together to persuade Gengshi.
Gengshi was furious after hearing this and refused to agree. Zhang Xun and others did not dare to say anything more.
When Chi Mei made Liu Penzi emperor, Gengshi sent Wang Kuang, Chen Mu, Cheng Yue and Zhao Meng to garrison Xinfeng and Li Song to garrison the city to resist them.
Zhang Xian, Liao Zhan, Hu Yin, Shen Tujian and others conspired with the imperial censor Kui Xiao to use force to hijack Gengshi during the Liqiu Festival in order to complete the plan proposed above.
Attendant Liu Nengqing learned of their plot and reported it to Gengshi.
Gengshi pretended to be ill and did not leave the palace, so he summoned Zhang Xuan and others.
Zhang Xuan and others came in, and Gengshi prepared to kill them all, but only Wei Xiao could not reach them.
Gengshi was suspicious and ordered Zhang Xian and four others to wait in the house outside temporarily.
Zhang Xun, Liao Zhan, and Hu Yin suspected that something had happened and rushed out. Only Shentu Jian was there, and Gengshi killed him.
Zhang Xuan, Liao Zhan, and Hu Yin then led their troops to plunder the east and west cities.
When it was dark, they broke into the palace and fought in the palace. Gengshi was defeated.
Early the next morning, he led his wife and more than a hundred chariots and rode eastward to Zhao Meng's place in Xinfeng.
Gengshi also suspected that Wang Kuang, Chen Mu, Cheng Dan and Zhang Xuan were conspiring, so he summoned them at the same time.
Chen Mu and Cheng Dan arrived first and were beheaded immediately.
Wang Kuang could not be frightened and led his army to Chang'an to meet Zhang and others.
Li Song returned to Gengshi and joined forces with Zhao Meng to attack Wang Kuang and Zhang Xuan in the city.
After fighting for more than a month, Wang Kuang and others were defeated and Gengshi moved to Changxin Palace.
When Chimei arrived at Gaoling, Wang Kuang and others surrendered to Chimei, so he and Chimei marched together.
Gengshi defended the city and sent Li Song to fight, but failed and more than two thousand people died. Chimei captured Li Song alive.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
时松弟汎为城门校尉，赤眉使使谓之曰： 开城门，活汝兄。 汎即开门。
九月，赤眉入城。
更始单骑走，从厨城门出，诸妇女从后连呼曰： 陛下，当下谢城！ 更始即下拜，复上马去。
初，侍中刘恭以赤眉立其弟盆子，自系诏狱：闻更始败，乃出，步从至高陵，止传舍。
右辅都尉严本恐失更始为赤眉所诛，将兵在外，号为屯卫而实囚之。
赤眉下书曰： 圣公降者，封长沙王。
过二十日，勿受。 更始遣刘恭请降，赤眉使其将谢禄往受之。
十月，更始遂随禄肉袒诣长乐宫，上玺绶于盆子。
赤眉坐更始，置庭中，将杀之。
刘恭、谢禄为请，不能得，遂引更始出。
刘恭追呼曰： 臣诚力极，请得先死。 拔剑欲自刎，赤眉帅樊崇等遽共救止之，乃赦更始，封为畏威侯。
刘恭复为固请，竟得封长沙王。
一旦失之，合兵攻公，自灭之道也。 于是禄使从兵与更始共牧马于郊下，因令缢杀之。
刘恭夜往收臧其尸。
光武闻而伤焉。诏大司徒邓禹葬之于霸陵。
有三子；求，歆，鲤。
明年夏，求兄弟与母东诣洛阳，帝封求为襄邑侯，奉更始祀；歆为穀孰侯，鲤为寿光侯。
求后徙封成阳侯。
求卒，子巡嗣，复徙封濩泽侯。
巡卒，子姚嗣。
论曰：周武王观兵孟津，退而还师，以为纣未可伐，斯时有未至者也。
汉起，驱轻黠乌合之众，不当天下万分之一，而旌旃之所捴及，书文之所通被，莫不折戈顿颡，争受职命。
非唯汉人余思，固亦几运之会也。
夫为权首，鲜或不及。
陈、项且犹未兴，况庸庸者乎！
刘盆子者，太山式人，城阳景王章之后也。
祖父宪，元帝时封为式侯，父萌嗣。
王莽篡位，国除，因为式人焉。
天凤元年，琅邪海曲有吕母者，子为县吏，犯小罪，宰论杀之。
translation: 
At this time, Li Song's younger brother Li Fan was the captain of the city gate. Red Eyebrow sent an envoy to Li Fan and said: "Open the city gate and spare your brother's life." Li Fan opened the door.
In September, Red Eyebrow entered the city.
Gengshi fled alone and came out of the kitchen city gate. Many women shouted from behind: Your Majesty should dismount his horse and seize the city! Gengshi dismounted and thanked him, then mounted his horse and ran away.
At first, the servant Liu Gong tied himself up and went to prison to plead guilty because he had made his younger brother Liu Penzi emperor with his red eyebrows. Hearing that Gengshi had failed, he was released from prison. Follow Gengshi on foot to Gaoling and stay at the post station.
Yan Ben, the right auxiliary captain, was afraid that Chimei would not let Gengshi go if he let him go, so he led his troops to station outside, claiming to be stationing troops to protect Gengshi but actually imprisoning him.
Chimei passed down a letter saying: If the Holy Duke is willing to surrender, he will be named King of Changsha.
But after twenty days, I refused to accept it. Gengshi sent Liu Gong to ask for surrender from Chimei, who sent his general Xie Lu to accept the surrender.
In October, Gengshi followed Xie Lu naked to Changle Palace and dedicated the emperor's seal and ribbon to Liu Penzi.
Chimei's guilt was changed and he was placed in the court and prepared to be killed.
Liu Gong and Xie Lu interceded for Gengshi, but Chimei didn't agree, so they took Gengshi away.
Liu Gong chased after him and said: I am trying my best to protect the Holy Duke. Please let me die in front of the Holy Duke. He drew his sword and wanted to commit suicide. Fan Chong, the commander of the red eyebrows, and others quickly rescued him, so they pardoned Gengshi and made him a Marquis of Weiwei.
Liu Gong once again interceded for Gengshi, and actually made Gengshi the King of Changsha.
Gengshi often lived with Xie Lu, and Liu Gong also protected him. The three assistants suffered from the tyranny of Chimei and all sympathized with Gengshi, but Zhang Xun and others were deeply concerned and said to Xie Lu: Now the commanders of the battalions want to capture Shenggong. Once you lose Shenggong and everyone joins forces to attack you, you will be destroying yourself. So Xie Lu sent his soldiers to go to the countryside to herd horses with Gengshi, and secretly ordered his soldiers to strangle Gengshi.
Liu Gong went to collect Gengxi's body at night.
Guangwu was very sad when he heard the news, and ordered Deng Yu, the chief minister, to bury Gengshi in Ba Ling.
Gengshi had three sons: Liu Qiu, Liu Xin, and Liu Li.
In the summer of the next year, Liu Qiu's brothers and their mother went east to Luoyang. The emperor named Qiu the Marquis of Xiangyi and offered sacrifices to Gengshi; Liu Xin was the Marquis of Shu, and Liu Li was the Marquis of Shouguang.
Liu Qiu later moved to the title of Marquis of Xianyang.
After Qiu's death, his son Liu Xun succeeded him and then moved to Zehou.
After Liu Xun's death, his son Liu Yao Sifeng.
The historian commented: King Wu of Zhou inspected Mengjin and later retreated because he believed that Yin and Zhou could not be defeated and the time to defeat Zhou had not yet come.
With the rise of the Han Dynasty, Gengshi drove a ragtag group of people who were light, sharp, cunning, and their number was less than one ten thousandth in the world. Wherever the banners went, and wherever the letters were conveyed, everyone put down their weapons, bowed their heads, surrendered, and scrambled to accept their orders.
This is not only due to people's nostalgia for the Han Dynasty, but also due to timing and fate.
The first person to attack is rarely unscathed.
Chen Sheng and Xiang Yu have not achieved imperial status, let alone mediocre people!
Liu Penzi was a native of Taishan County and a descendant of Liu Zhang, King of Chengyangjing.
His grandfather Liu Xian was granted the title of Shihou during the Yuan Dynasty, and his father Liu Meng succeeded him.
After Wang Mang usurped the throne, the feudal state was removed, so he became a native of Shixian County.
In the first year of Tianfeng, there was a mother Lu in Haiqu County, Langfu County. Her son was a county official. He committed a minor crime and was killed by the county magistrate.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
吕母怨宰，密聚客，规以报仇。
母家素丰，资产数百万，乃益酿醇酒，买刀剑衣服。
少年来酤者，皆赊与之，视其乏者，辄假衣裳，不问多少。
数年，财用稍尽，少年欲相与偿之。
吕母垂泣曰： 所以厚诸君者，非欲求利，徒以县宰不道，枉杀吾子，欲为报怨耳。
诸君宁肯哀之乎！ 少年壮其意，又素受恩，皆许诺。
其中勇士自号猛虎，遂相聚得数十百人，因与吕母入海中，招合亡命，众至数千。
吕母自称将军，引兵还攻破海曲，执县宰。
诸吏叩头为宰请。
母曰： 吾子犯小罪，不当死，而为宰所杀。
杀人当死，又何请乎？ 遂斩之，以其首祭子冢，复还海中。
后数岁，琅邪人樊崇起兵于莒，众百余人，转入太山，自号三老。
时青、徐大饥，寇贼蜂起，众盗以崇勇猛，皆附之，一岁间至万余人。
崇同郡人逄安，东海人徐宣、谢禄、杨音，各起兵，合数万人，复引从崇。
共还攻莒，不能下，转掠至姑幕，因击王莽探汤侯田况，大破之，杀万余人，遂北入青州，所过虏掠。
还至太山，留屯南城。初，崇等以困穷为冠，无攻城徇地之计。
众既浸盛，乃相与为约：杀人者死，伤人者偿创。
以言辞为约束，无文书、旌旗、部曲、号令。
其中最尊者号三老，次从事，次卒史，泛相称曰巨人。
王莽遣平均公廉丹、太师王匡击之。
崇等欲战，恐其众与莽兵乱，乃皆朱其眉以相识别，由是号曰赤眉。
赤眉遂大破丹、匡军，杀万余人，追至无盐，廉丹战死，王匡走。
translation: 
Lu's mother resented the county magistrate and secretly gathered guests to plan revenge for her son.
Lu's mother's family had always been wealthy, with a fortune of millions, so she made more wine and bought swords and clothes.
Mother Lu would give credit to young people who came to buy wine. When she saw the poor, she would often lend them clothes, no matter how much.
A few years later, the family wealth gradually ran out, and the young people were ready to repay their debts to her.
Lu's mother wept and said, "The reason why I treat you so favorably is not to seek profit, but because the county magistrate was unreasonable and killed my son in vain. I want to avenge him."
Would you rather pity me? The young people all thought she was loyal and brave, and had received many favors, so they all agreed to her.
There were brave young men who called themselves tigers, so they gathered together dozens of people, and went to the sea with Lu's mother to recruit the desperadoes, and the number reached thousands.
Lu's mother claimed to be a general and led her troops back to attack Haiqu County and capture the county magistrate alive.
The county officials kowtowed to intercede for the county magistrate.
Lu's mother said: My son committed a small crime and did not deserve to die, but he was killed by the county magistrate in vain.
If the murderer dies, what can be said about it? So he killed the county magistrate, took the magistrate's head to his son's tomb, and returned to the sea.
A few years later, Fan Chong, a native of Langfu County, raised troops in Ju. More than a hundred of his men moved to Taishan to fight, calling themselves the Three Elders.
At this time, there was a great famine in Qingzhou and Xuzhou, and thieves appeared in droves. The bandits thought that Fan Chong was brave, so they all joined him, and the number increased to more than 10,000 people within a year.
Fan Chong was from Pang'an in the same county, and Xu Xuan and Xie Lu Yangyin from Donghai County also raised their own troops. Together they numbered tens of thousands, and they all led their troops to Fan Chong.
They returned to attack Ju County together, but failed to capture it, so they moved to Gumu County, where they attacked Wang Mang to explore the conditions of Tanghou's fields. They won a great victory and killed more than 10,000 people. Then they moved north to Qingzhou and captured and plundered all the places they passed.
Returning to Taishan, he stationed in Nancheng County. At first, Fan Chong and others became bandits because of poverty and had no intention of attacking the city.
Later, the team gradually expanded, and they agreed with each other: those who kill will be put to death, and those who injure others will pay for their wounds.
Restricted by words, there are no documents, banners, establishments, or orders.
Among them, the highest-ranking ones are the three elders, followed by the engaged ones, and the third ones are the pawns. They are generally called "giants".
Wang Mang sent Peng Liandan and Taishi Wang Kuang to attack.
Fan Chong and others prepared to fight, but he was worried that his subordinates would be confused with Wang Mang's soldiers, so he ordered his subordinates to paint their eyebrows red to distinguish them, and they were known as red eyebrows from then on.
Chimei defeated Lian Dan and Wang Kuang's army, killing more than ten thousand people, and chased them to Wuyan. Lian Dan died in the battle and Wang Kuang fled for his life.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
崇又引其兵十余万，复还围莒，数月。
或说崇曰： 莒，父母之国，奈何攻之？ 乃解去。
时吕母病死，其众分入赤眉、青犊、铜马中。
赤眉遂寇东海，与王莽沂平大尹战，败，死者数千人，乃引去，掠楚、沛、汝南、颍川，还人陈留，攻拔鲁城，转至濮阳。
会更始都洛阳，遣使降崇。
崇等闻汉室复兴，即留其兵，自将渠帅二十余人，随使者至洛阳降更始，皆封为列侯。
崇等既未有国邑，而留众稍有离叛，乃遂亡归其营，将兵入颍川，分其众为二部，崇与逄安为一部，徐宣、谢禄、杨音为一部。
崇、安攻拔长社，南击宛，斩县令；而宣、禄等亦拔阳翟，引之梁，击杀河南太守。
赤眉众虽数战胜，而疲敝厌兵，皆日夜愁泣，思欲东归。
崇等计议，虑众东向必散，不如西攻长安。
更始二年冬，崇、安自武关，宣等从陆浑关，两道俱入。
三年正月，俱至弘农，与更始诸将连战克胜，众遂大集。
乃分万人为一营，凡三十营，营置三老、从事各一人。进至华阴。
军中常有齐巫鼓舞祠城阳景王，以求福助。
巫狂言景王大怒，曰： 当为县官，何故为贼？ 有笑巫者辄病，军中惊动。
时方望弟阳怨更始杀其兄，乃逆说崇等曰： 更始荒乱，政令不行，故使将军得至于此。
今将军拥百万之众，西向帝城，而无称号，名为群贼，不可以久。
不如立宗室，挟义诛伐。
以此号令，谁敢不服？ 崇等以为然，而巫言益盛，前及郑，乃相与议曰： 今迫近长安，而鬼神如此，当求刘氏共尊立之。 六月，遂立盆子为帝，自号建世元年。
初，赤眉过式，掠盆子及二兄恭、茂，皆在军中。
translation: 
Fan Chong led more than 100,000 troops and returned to surround Ju County for several months.
Someone said to Chong: Ju is the hometown of our parents, why should we attack it? Fan Chongnai came to the rescue and left.
At this time, Lu's mother died of illness, and her subordinates joined the Red Eyebrow, Qingdu, and Bronze Horse tribes.
The Red Eyebrow Army invaded Donghai County and fought against Wang Mang Dayin of Yiping County. They failed and thousands of people died. Then they left Donghai and plundered Chu, Pei, Runan, and Yingchuan. They returned to Chenliu, captured Lu City, and moved to Puyang.
It happened that Gengshi decided to make his capital Luoyang and sent envoys to persuade Fan Chong to surrender.
When Fan Chong and others heard that the Han Dynasty was revived, they left their troops behind and personally led more than 20 generals to accompany the envoys to Luoyang to surrender and reform. They were all granted the title of marquis.
Fan Chong and others did not have their own fiefdom, and the tribesmen who stayed behind slowly began to rebel. Fan Chong left Luoyang and returned to his barracks. He led his army into Yingchuan County and divided his tribe into two divisions, one with Fan Chong and Pang An, and one with Xu Xuan, Xie Lu, and Yang Yin.
Fan Chong and Pang An captured Changshe County, attacked Wancheng in the south, and beheaded the county magistrate; while Xu Xuan, Xie Lu, and others also captured Yangzhai County and led their troops to Liang County to kill the Henan prefect.
Although the Red Eyebrow tribe had won many battles, they were exhausted and tired of fighting. They cried day and night and wanted to return eastward.
Fan Chong and others discussed and considered that once they returned eastward, the tribe would inevitably disperse, so it was better to attack Chang'an westward.
In the winter of the second year of Gengshi, Fan Chong and Pang An arrived at Wuguan, while Xu Xuan and others advanced from Luhun Pass in two directions.
In the first month of the third year, they all arrived in Hongnong County and won consecutive battles with Gengshi generals, and the army developed greatly.
So ten thousand people were divided into one battalion, and a total of thirty battalions were built. Each battalion had three elders and one person in charge; they entered Huayin.
In the army, Qi witches often played drums and danced to worship King Cheng Yangjing for blessings and peace.
The wizard was talking nonsense, and King Jing was furious and said: When you are the emperor, why should you be a thief? Those who laughed at the witches became ill, and the army was frightened.
At this time, Fang Wang's younger brother Fang Yang resented Gengshi for killing his brother, so he wrote to Fan Chong and others, saying: Gengshi was in chaos and the government's orders were ineffective, which is why the general reached this point.
Now the general has millions of people marching west to the imperial capital Chang'an, but he has no title and is called a group of thieves. This cannot last long.
It is better to establish the Liu clan and carry out executions under the banner of justice.
Who dares to disobey this order? Fan Chong and others thought this was good. Fan Chong advanced to Zheng County and discussed with the generals: Now that our army is approaching Chang'an, and ghosts and gods appear like this, we should ask the Liu clan to jointly establish him as emperor. In June, Liu Penzi was made emperor and named himself the first year of the founding of the world.
At first, Chimei passed through Shixian County and captured Liu Penzi and his two brothers Liu Gong and Liu Mao, all of whom remained in the army.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
恭少习《尚书》，略通大义。
及随崇等降更始，即封为式侯。
以明经数言事，拜侍中，从更始在长安。
盆子与茂留军中，属右校卒史刘侠卿，主刍牧牛，号曰牛吏。
及崇等欲立帝，求军中景王后者，得七十余人，唯盆子与茂及前西安侯刘孝最为近属。
崇等议曰： 闻古天子将兵称上将军。 乃书札为符曰 上将军 ，又以两空札置笥中，遂于郑北设坛场，祠城阳景王。
诸三老、从事皆大会陛下，列盆子等三人居中立，以年次探札。
盆子最幼，后探得符，诸将乃皆称臣拜。
盆子时年十五，被发徒跣，敝衣赭汗，见众拜，恐畏欲啼。
茂谓曰： 善藏符。 盆子即啮折弃之，复还依侠卿。
侠卿为制绛单衣、半头赤帻、直綦履，乘轩车大马，赤屏泥，绛襜络，而犹从牧儿遨。
崇虽起勇力而为众所宗，然不知书数。
徐宣故县狱吏，能通《易经》。
遂共推宣为丞相、崇御史大夫、逄安左大司马、谢禄右大司马，自杨音以下皆为列卿。
军及高陵，与更始叛将张卬等连和，遂攻东都门，入长安城，更始来降。
盆子居长东宫，诸将日会论功，争言讙呼，拔剑击柱，不能相一。
三辅郡县营长遣使贡献，兵士辄剽夺之。
又数虏暴吏民，百姓保壁，由是皆复固守。
至腊日，崇等乃设乐大会，盆子坐正殿，中黄门持兵在后，公卿皆列坐殿上。酒未行，其中一人也刀笔书谒欲贺，其余不知书者请起之，各各屯聚，更相背向。大司农杨音按剑骂曰： 诸卿皆老佣也！
translation: 
Liu Gong studied "Shang Shu" since he was a child and understood some of the great meanings in the book.
Later, he surrendered to Gengshi with Fan Chong and others, and was named Shihou.
Because he was proficient in Confucian classics, he wrote many times to discuss matters, and he was appointed as a servant. He stayed in Chang'an from Gengshi.
Liu Penzi and Liu Mao stayed in the Red Eyebrow Army and belonged to Liu Xiaqing, a soldier in the right school. They were responsible for cutting grass and feeding cattle, and were known as "cow officials".
Later, Fan Chong and others wanted to establish an emperor and searched for the descendants of King Chengyang Jing who were in the army. They found more than seventy people in total. Only Liu Penzi was the closest relative to Liu Mao and the former Marquis of Xi'an Liu Xiao.
Fan Chong and others discussed it and said: I heard that in ancient times the emperor led troops and was called a general. So he used a piece of wood to write a sign of "General", and put two blank pieces of wood of the same size in the basket, so he set up an altar in Zhengbei to worship King Cheng Yangjing.
The three elders and businessmen gathered under the steps. Liu Penzi, Liu Mao, and Liu Xiao stood in the middle, picking up wood chips in order of age.
Liu Penzi was the youngest and the last one to touch it, and happened to touch the middle piece of wood. All the generals in the audience congratulated Liu Penzi on his submission.
Liu Penzi was only fifteen years old at this time, with his hair disheveled, bare feet, and rags. He was blushing and sweating and was so frightened that he almost cried when he saw everyone kneeling down to him.
Liu Mao said to him: Hide the wood pieces well. Liu Penzi immediately bit off the wood pieces and threw them away, then returned to Liu Xiaqing.
Liu Xiaqing made Liu Penzi a bright red singlet, an empty red hat, and shoes with a straight pattern, and asked him to ride in a high carriage and a big horse. There was a red mud screen in front of the carriage and a red curtain around the carriage, but Liu Penzi still played with the shepherds.
Although Fan Chong started out as a warrior and was admired by everyone, he was uneducated and did not know his skills.
Xu Xuan worked as a jailer in the county government and knew the Book of Changes.
So everyone recommended Xu Xuan as the prime minister, Fan Chong as the imperial censor, Pang An as the left Grand Sima, Xie Lu as the Right Grand Sima, and everyone from Yang Yin on down as Lieqing.
The army arrived at Gaoling and joined forces with Gengshi's rebel general Zhang Xian and others, so they attacked Dongdu Gate and entered Chang'an City, whereupon Gengshi surrendered.
Liu Penzi lived in Changle Palace, and the generals gathered every day to discuss who had the greater merit. They argued and shouted, drew their swords and struck pillars, but they could not reach an agreement.
The battalion commanders of Sanfu County sent envoys to present tributes, but the soldiers easily snatched the tributes away.
He also robbed and brutalized the officials and people many times, and the people defended the city from then on.
On the day of the twelfth lunar month festival, Fan Chong and others held a meeting with music. Liu Penzi sat in the main hall, and the soldiers at the Zhonghuang Gate stood behind. The ministers were all sitting in the hall. The wine had not yet been drunk. One of them took a knife and pen to write a name card in preparation for the celebration. The others who could not write stood up and asked someone to write for them. They gathered in groups, back to back. The chief minister, Yang Yin, pressed his sword and cursed: "All the ministers are old servants!"


Chunk 8: 
original: 
今日设君臣之礼，反更殽乱，儿戏尚不如此，皆可格杀！ 更相辩斗，而兵众遂各逾宫斩关，入掠酒肉，互相杀伤。
卫尉诸葛稚闻之，勒兵人，格杀百余人，乃定。
盆子惶恐，日夜啼泣，独与中黄门共卧起，唯得上观阁而不闻外事。
时掖庭中宫女犹有数百千人，自更始败后，幽闭殿内，掘庭中芦菔根，捕池鱼而食之，死者因相埋于宫中。
有故祠甘泉乐人，尚共击鼓歌舞，衣服鲜明，见盆子叩头言饥。
盆子使中黄门禀之米，人数斗。
后盆子去，皆饿死不出。
刘恭见赤眉众乱，知其必败，自恐兄弟俱祸，密教盆子归玺绶，习为辞让之言。
建武二年正朔，崇等大会，刘恭先曰： 诸君共立恭弟为帝，德诚深厚。
立且一年，肴乱日甚，诚不足以相成。
恐死而无所益，愿得退为庶人，更求贤知，唯诸君省察。 崇等谢曰： 此皆崇等罪也。 恭复固请。
或曰： 此宁式侯事邪！ 恭惶恐起去。
盆子乃下床解玺绶，叩头曰： 今设置县官而为贼如故。
吏人贡献，辄见剽劫，流闻四方，莫不怨恨，不复信向。
诚冀诸君肯哀怜之耳！ 因涕泣嘘唏。
崇等及会者数百人，莫不哀怜之，乃皆避席顿首曰； 臣无状，负陛下。
请自今已后，不敢复放纵。 因共抱持盆子，带以玺绶。
盆子号呼不得已。
既罢出，各闭营自守，三辅翕然，称天子聪明。
百姓争还长安，市里且满。
后二十余日，赤眉贪财物，复出大掠。
translation: 
Today, the etiquette of the emperor and his ministers is even more chaotic. It will not be such a mess as a child's play, and everyone can be killed. They quarreled and fought with each other, and the soldiers also crossed the palace, cut off the barriers, broke into the palace, robbed wine and meat, and killed each other.
When Wei Wei Zhuge Zhi heard the news, he immediately led his troops in and killed more than a hundred people before settling down.
Liu Penzi was frightened and cried day and night. He got up and lay down alone with Zhonghuangmen. He could only go to the viewing pavilion and not hear what was going on outside.
At this time, there were hundreds or even thousands of maids living in the palace. Since the reform failed, they had been confined in the palace. They dug radish and carrots in the courtyard to catch fish in the pond to satisfy their hunger. When they died, they were buried in the palace.
Some musicians who used to worship gods in Ganquan still played drums, sang and danced together, wore bright clothes, and kowtowed when they saw Liu Penzi saying that they were hungry.
Liu Penzi sent Zhonghuangmen to give them rice, and each of them had to count a few dou.
After Liu Penzi left, he starved to death and couldn't get out.
Liu Gong saw that the Red Eyebrow troops were in disarray and knew that they would be defeated. He was afraid that all his brothers would suffer misfortune, so he secretly taught Liu Penzi to hand over the emperor's seal and ribbon and teach him how to resign from the throne.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the second year of Jianwu, Fan Chong and others held a grand gathering. Liu Gongxian said: "All the kings have jointly established my brother Penzi as emperor. The virtue of supporting him is extremely profound."
During his one year in office, the chaos became more and more serious day by day, and it was really not enough to accomplish anything.
I am afraid that there will be no benefit to me even if I die, so I am willing to abdicate and become a common man, so that I can seek more wise and wise people as my emperor. Please review me. Fan Chong and others apologized and said, "This is all our fault." Liu Gong insisted again.
Some people said: Is this your business? Liu Gong was frightened and stood up and left.
Liu Penzi then got out of bed and took off his seal ribbon, kowtowed and said: Now that the emperor has been appointed, he is still a thief as before.
The officials and the people were often robbed when they contributed goods. This kind of scandal spread everywhere, and everyone was resentful, so they no longer trusted or yearned for us.
These are all the consequences of being disrespectful. I beg to save my life and make way for a sage.
If you must kill me to satisfy your guilt, I cannot escape. I sincerely hope that you all can sympathize with me and take pity on me.
So he burst into tears and lamented. Fan Chong and other hundreds of people present felt pity for him, so they all left their seats and kowtowed, saying: "I have failed your majesty. From now on, I will not dare to indulge again." So they picked up the basin together and tied a seal ribbon on him.
Liu Penzi called for help.
After the banquet, everyone closed their camps and defended themselves. The three assistants unanimously praised the emperor as wise.
The people rushed back to Chang'an, and the city was full of people.
More than twenty days later, Chimei was greedy for money and went out to plunder again.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
城中粮食尽，遂收载珍宝，因大纵火烧宫室，引兵而西。
过祠南郊，车甲兵马最为猛盛，众号百万。
盆子乘王车，驾三马，从数百骑。
乃自南山转掠城邑，与更始将军严春战于郿，破春，杀之，遂入安定、北地。
至阳城、番须中，逢大雪，坑谷皆满，士多冻死，乃复还，发掘诸陵，取其宝货，遂污辱吕后尸，凡贼所发，有玉匣殓者率皆如生，故赤眉得多行淫秽。
大司徒邓禹时在长安，遣兵击之于郁夷，反为所败，禹乃出之云阳。
九月，赤眉复入长安，止桂宫。
时，汉中贼延岑出散关，屯杜陵，逄安将十余万人击之。
邓禹以逄安精兵在外，唯盆子与羸弱居城中，乃自往攻之。
会谢禄救至，夜战槀街中，禹兵败走。
延岑及更始将军李宝合兵数万人，与逄安战于杜陵。
岑等大败，死者万余人，宝遂降安，而延岑收散卒走。
宝乃密使人谓岑曰： 子努力还战，吾当于内反之，表里合势，可大破也。 岑即还挑战，安等空营击之，宝从后悉拔赤眉旌帜，更立己幡旗。安等战疲还营，见旗帜皆白，大惊乱走，自投川谷，死者十余万，逄安与数千人脱归长安。时三辅大乱，人相食，城郭皆空，白骨蔽野，遗人往往聚为营保，各坚守不下。
赤眉虏掠无所得，十二月，乃引而东归，众尚二十余万，随道复散。
光武乃遣破奸将军侯进等屯新安，建威大将军耿弇等屯宜阳，分为二道，以要其还路。
敕诸将曰： 贼若东走，可引宜阳兵会新安；贼若南走，可引新安兵会宜阳。 明年正月，邓禹自河北度，击赤眉于湖，禹复败走，赤眉遂出关南向。
征西大将军冯异破之于崤底。
帝闻，乃自将幸宜阳，盛兵以邀其走路。
赤眉忽遇大军，惊震不知所为，乃遣刘恭乞降，曰： 盆子将百万众降，陛下何以待之？ 帝曰： 待汝以不死耳。 樊崇乃将盆子及丞相徐宣以下三十余人肉袒降。
上所得传国玺绶，更始七尺宝敛及玉璧各一。
积兵甲宜阳城西，与熊耳山齐。
帝令县厨赐食，众积困餧，十余万人皆得饱饫。
明旦，大陈兵马临洛水，令盆子君臣列而观之。
translation: 
When the food in the city ran out, he collected and loaded up treasures, so he set fire to the palace and led his troops westward.
After passing through the southern suburbs to worship the sky, the chariots, armor, soldiers and horses were the most vigorous, with a crowd of millions.
Liu Penzi rode in the king's chariot, driving three horses, followed by hundreds of horsemen.
So he plundered from Zhongnan Mountain to the big city and Xiaoyi, fought with Gengshi General Yan Chun in the county, defeated Yan Chun and killed him, and then entered Anding and Beidi.
When they arrived at Yangcheng and Fanxuzhong, they encountered heavy snow and the pits and valleys were full. Many soldiers froze to death. So they returned, excavated the tombs in the mausoleums, and stole the treasures in the tombs. Empress Lu's body was also insulted. In the tombs excavated by Chimei, most of the jade boxes containing the remains looked like they were alive, so Chimei was able to do a lot of dirty work.
The great Situ Deng Yu was in Chang'an at this time and sent troops to attack Yu Yi. However, he was defeated by Chi Mei, and Yu had to leave Yunyang.
In September, Chimei returned to Chang'an and lived in Guigong.
At this time, the Hanzhong thief Yancen sent troops to disperse the pass and stationed himself in Duling. Pang'an led more than 100,000 people to attack Yancen.
Deng Yu led his army to attack Chang'an because Pang'an's elite troops were away and only Liu Penzi and some weak people lived in the city.
Just then Xie Lu's reinforcements arrived and started a night battle with Deng Yu's army on Cha Street. Deng Yu was defeated and fled.
Yancen and Gengshi general Li Bao combined tens of thousands of troops to fight against Pang'an at Duling.
Yancen and others were defeated and more than ten thousand people died. Li Bao surrendered to Pang'an. Yancen gathered the scattered soldiers and fled. Li Bao sent someone to inform Yancen, saying: "You try your best to fight back. I will turn back from the inside and attack from both inside and outside, which can greatly destroy Pang'an."
Yancen immediately returned to challenge, Pang'an Kongying fought back, and Li Bao pulled out all the red eyebrow army flags from behind and replaced them with his own banners. Pang An and others returned to camp after being exhausted from the battle. When they saw that the flags had been replaced by white flags, they ran in panic and threw themselves into a valley. More than 100,000 people died. Pang An and thousands of others escaped and returned to Chang'an. At this time, there was a great famine in Sanfu, people were eating people, the city walls were empty, and the fields were full of bones. The people who stayed often formed camps to protect each other, and each of them stood firm.
Chimei couldn't grab anything, so in December, he led his troops back eastward, leaving more than 200,000 people scattered along the way.
Guangwu then sent General Hou Jin and others to garrison in Xin'an County, and General Jianwei Geng Yan and others to garrison in Yiyang, dividing the troops into two groups to intercept their return.
He ordered the generals to say: If the thieves go east, they can lead Yiyang's troops to join Xin'an; if the thieves go south, they can lead Xin'an's troops to join Yiyang. In the first month of the second year, Deng Yu crossed from Hebei and attacked Chimei in Hu County. Deng Yu was defeated again, so Chimei left the pass and marched south.
General Feng Yi defeated the Red Eyebrow Army in Guodi.
After Guangwu heard the news, he personally led his army to Yiyang and blocked their escape with a powerful army.
Chimei suddenly encountered a large army and was so shocked that he didn't know what to do, so he sent Liu Gong to beg Guangwu for surrender, saying: "Penzi has surrendered millions of people to your majesty. How will your majesty treat them?" The emperor said: I will just not kill you. Fan Chong then stripped Liu Penzi, Prime Minister Xu Xuan and more than 30 people and asked Guangwu to surrender.
Guangwu received a royal seal, a seven-foot sword from Gengshi, and a jade jade.
The captured weapons were piled in the west of Yiyang City, as high as Xiong'er Mountain.
The emperor ordered the county chef to give food to the Red Eyebrow Army. The soldiers were hungry and sleepy for a long time, and more than 100,000 people were able to have a full meal.
Early the next morning, the emperor arranged his troops and horses beside Luoshui, and ordered Liu Penzi's monarchs and ministers to line up to watch.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
谓盆子曰： 自知当死不？ 对曰： 罪当应死，犹幸上怜赦之耳。 帝笑曰： 儿大黠，宗室无蚩者。 又谓崇等曰； 得无悔降乎？
朕今遣卿归营勒兵，鸣鼓相攻，决其胜负，不欲强相服也。 徐宣等叩头曰： 臣等出长安东都门，君臣计议，归命圣德。
百姓可与乐成，难与图始，故不告众耳。
今日得降，犹去虎口归慈母，诚欢诚喜，无所恨也。
帝曰： 卿所谓铁中铮铮，庸中佼佼者也。 又曰： 诸卿大为无道，所过皆夷灭老弱，溺社稷，污井灶。
然犹有三善：攻破城邑，周遍天下，本故妻妇无所改易，是一善也；立君能用宗室，是二善也；余贼立君，迫急皆持其首降，自以为功，诸卿独完全以付朕，是三善也。 乃令各与妻子居洛阳，赐宅人一区，田二顷。
其夏，樊崇、逄安谋反，诛死。
杨音在长安时，遇赵王良有恩，赐爵关内侯，与徐宣俱归乡里，卒于家。
刘恭为更始报杀谢禄，自系狱，赦不诛。
帝怜盆子，赏赐甚厚，以为赵王郎中。
后病失明，赐荥阳均输官地，以为列肆，使食其税终身。
translation: 
The emperor said to Penzi: "Do you know that you deserve to die?"
I will let you go back to the camp now. You can lead the army to attack each other with drums and decide the outcome. I don't want you to force yourself to obey me. Xu Xuan and others kowtowed and said: When we left the east capital gate of Chang'an, the emperor and his ministers discussed and surrendered to the Holy One.
The people can rejoice with them after the event is completed, but it is difficult to plot with him at the beginning, so we did not tell the people in advance.
Returning today is like escaping from a tiger's mouth and returning to a loving mother. I am so happy that I have no regrets.
The emperor said: You are indeed the kind of tough guy, an outstanding talent among mediocre people. He also said: You are extremely unrighteous, killing the old and weak wherever you go, urinating on the country and polluting the wells, water, pots and stoves.
But there are three more advantages: conquering cities all over the world without abandoning the original wives and concubines, this is one advantage; being able to use the Liu family clan when establishing a monarch, this is the second advantage; other thieves established kings, and when they were desperate, they often surrendered with their heads. You thought you had done a good job, but you let Penzi live to surrender to me, this is the third advantage. So they were ordered to live in Luoyang with their wives, and each was given a residential area and two hectares of land.
In the summer of this year, Fan Chong and Pang An rebelled and were executed.
When Yang Yin was in Chang'an, he was kind to Zhao Wang Liu Liang and granted him the title of Marquis of Guannei. Both he and Xu Xuan returned to the countryside and died at home.
Liu Gong killed Xie Lu for Gengshi, tied himself up and went to prison to plead guilty, but was pardoned and refused to kill him.
Emperor Guangwu loved Penzi, rewarded him with many things, and made him the doctor of King Zhao.
Later, his eyes became ill and he became blind, so he was given the official land of Junshu in Xingyang, opened a shop, and allowed him to use the tax revenue here for the rest of his life.


