Chunk 0: 
original: 
大司马臣去病昧死再拜上疏皇帝陛下：陛下过听，使臣去病待罪行间。
宜专边塞之思虑，暴骸中野无以报，乃敢惟他议以干用事者，诚见陛下忧劳天下，哀怜百姓以自忘，亏膳贬乐，损郎员。
皇子赖天，能胜衣趋拜，至今无号位师傅官。陛下恭让不恤，群臣私望，不敢越职而言。
臣窃不胜犬马心，昧死原陛下诏有司，因盛夏吉时定皇子位。
唯陛下幸察。
臣去病昧死再拜以闻皇帝陛下。
三月乙亥，御史臣光守尚书令奏未央宫。
制曰： 下御史。
六年三月戊申朔，乙亥，御史臣光守尚书令、丞非，下御史书到，言： 丞相臣青翟、御史大夫臣汤、太常臣充、大行令臣息、太子少傅臣安行宗正事昧死上言：大司马去病上疏曰： 陛下过听，使臣去病待罪行间。
宜专边塞之思虑，暴骸中野无以报，乃敢惟他议以干用事者，诚见陛下忧劳天下，哀怜百姓以自忘，亏膳贬乐，损郎员。
皇子赖天，能胜衣趋拜，至今无号位师傅官。陛下恭让不恤，群臣私望，不敢越职而言。
臣窃不胜犬马心，昧死原陛下诏有司，因盛夏吉时定皇子位。
唯原陛下幸察。
制曰 下御史 。
臣谨与中二千石、二千石臣贺等议：古者裂地立国，并建诸侯以承天于，所以尊宗庙重社稷也。
今臣去病上疏，不忘其职，因以宣恩，乃道天子卑让自贬以劳天下，虑皇子未有号位。
translation: 
After the great minister Huo Qubing died, he paid homage to His Majesty Emperor Shu: Thanks to His Majesty's love, Huo Qubing was able to serve in the army.
I should be concentrating on border defense affairs. Even if I die in the wilderness, I cannot repay His Majesty. Now I dare to disturb His Majesty by discussing other matters. I did this because I saw that Your Majesty was worried about the affairs of the world, and out of pity for the people, he forgot about himself, reduced the food and music, and cut down the number of servants.
The princes have relied on God's blessing and have grown up to be able to perform the rite of worship. However, there has not yet been a master officer in the title position. Your Majesty is courteous and courteous, but has no sympathy for the feelings of the flesh and blood. The ministers secretly hope to title them as soon as possible, but they dare not go beyond their duties.
I am so dissatisfied that I risk my life to go to Shu Shu to express my hope. I hope that your majesty will be able to appoint the prince as early as possible on the auspicious day of midsummer.
I hope your Majesty will inspect it.
After Huo Qubing died, he paid homage to His Majesty the Emperor.
On the day of Yihai in the third month, Huo Guang, the censor and minister, sent a report to Weiyang Palace.
The emperor issued an edict: "Please hand it over to the censor."
On the day of Wushenshuo in the third month of the sixth year of Yuanshou, Yihai, the imperial censor Huo Guang concurrently served as minister of the book, and left and right Cheng Fei arrived. The document for the censor arrived, saying: The prime minister Zhuang Qingzhai, the censor's official Zhang Tang, the Taichang minister Zhao Chong, the Taihang Ling minister Li Xi, the prince's young master and the Zongzheng official Ren Anchang died in a memorial: The great minister Ma Huo Qubing said: Thanks to your majesty's love, I allow my subject Huo Qubing to serve in the army.
I should be concentrating on border defense affairs. Even if I die in the wilderness, I cannot repay His Majesty. Now I dare to disturb His Majesty by discussing other matters. I did this because I saw that Your Majesty was worried about the affairs of the world, and out of pity for the people, he forgot about himself, reduced the food and music, and cut down the number of servants.
The princes have relied on God's blessing and have grown up to be able to perform the rite of worship. However, there has not yet been a master officer in the title position. Your Majesty is courteous and courteous, but has no sympathy for the feelings of the flesh and blood. The ministers secretly hope to title them as soon as possible, but they dare not go beyond their duties.
I am so dissatisfied that I risk my life to go to Shu Shu to express my hope. I hope that your majesty will be able to appoint the prince as early as possible on the auspicious day of midsummer.
I hope your Majesty will inspect it.
After Huo Qubing died, he paid homage to His Majesty the Emperor. The emperor issued an edict: "Leave it to the censor to handle it."
I would like to discuss with Zhong Erqian Shi, Er Qian Shi Chen Gongsun He and others: In ancient times, the land was divided to establish a country, and at the same time, vassal states were established to respect the emperor. This is the reason for respecting the ancestral temple and attaching importance to the country.
Now the minister, Huo Qubing, has not forgotten his duties, and used it to promote the emperor's favor, praise the emperor for being humble and humiliating himself, worrying about the affairs of the world, and thinking about the prince's untitled title.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
臣青翟、臣汤等宜奉义遵职，愚憧而不逮事。
方今盛夏吉时，臣青翟、臣汤等昧死请立皇子臣闳、臣旦、臣胥为诸侯王。
昧死请所立国名。
制曰： 盖闻周封八百，姬姓并列，或子、男、附庸。
礼 支子不祭 。
云并建诸侯所以重社稷，朕无闻焉。
且天非为君生民也。
朕之不德，海内未洽，乃以未教成者彊君连城，即股肱何劝？
其更议以列侯家之。
三月丙子，奏未央宫。 丞相臣青翟、御史大夫臣汤昧死言：臣谨与列侯臣婴齐、中二千石二千石臣贺、谏大夫博士臣安等议曰：伏闻周封八百，姬姓并列，奉承天子。
康叔以祖考显，而伯禽以周公立，咸为建国诸侯，以相傅为辅。
百官奉宪，各遵其职，而国统备矣。
窃以为并建诸侯所以重社稷者，四海诸侯各以其职奉贡祭。
支子不得奉祭宗祖，礼也。
封建使守籓国，帝王所以扶德施化。
陛下奉承天统，明开圣绪，尊贤显功，兴灭继绝。
续萧文终之後于酂，襃厉群臣平津侯等。
昭六亲之序，明天施之属，使诸侯王封君得推私恩分子弟户邑，锡号尊建百有馀国。
而家皇子为列侯，则尊卑相逾，列位失序，不可以垂统於万世。
臣请立臣闳、臣旦、臣胥为诸侯王。
三月丙子，奏未央宫。
制曰： 康叔亲属有十而独尊者，襃有德也。
周公祭天命郊，故鲁有白牡、骍刚之牲。
群公不毛，贤不肖差也。 高山仰之，景行乡之 ，朕甚慕焉。
所以抑未成，家以列侯可。
四月戊寅，奏未央宫。 丞相臣青翟、御史大夫臣汤昧死言：臣青翟等与列侯、吏二千石、谏大夫、博士臣庆等议：昧死奏请立皇子为诸侯王。
translation: 
Chen Zhuang Qingzhai, Chen Zhangtang and others should obey their duties, but they were ignorant and did not think of this.
Now is the auspicious time of midsummer. Chen Zhuang Qingzhai, Chen Zhang Tang and others risked their lives to ask the princes Chen Liu Hong, Chen Liu Dan and Chen Liu Xu to be the kings of the princes.
They risked their lives to request that the name of the country be sealed to them.
The emperor issued an edict: I heard that the Zhou Dynasty enfeoffed eight hundred princes, all with the surname Ji, including viscounts, barons, and vassals.
"Book of Rites" says: Branch children are not allowed to be sacrificed in the ancestral temple.
You talk about merging vassal states to strengthen the country, but I have never heard of it.
Besides, God did not give birth to people for kings.
My virtue is shallow and I am unable to harmonize the whole country, but I can barely make a prince who has not learned the doctrine become a prince. So what role can the ministers play in persuading him?
The discussion should be re-discussed and the princes of Israel should grant them a title.
On Bingzi day of March, another report was sent to Weiyang Palace: Prime Minister Chen Qing Zhai, Yu Shi Dafu Chen Zhang Tang risked their lives to admonish: I would like to discuss with the princes Chen Yingqi, the minister Gongsun He of the two thousand stones and the doctor Chen An, etc.: We heard that the Zhou Dynasty enfeoffed eight hundred princes with the surname Ji, to serve the emperor.
Uncle Kang was distinguished by his grandfather and father. Bo Qin was granted the title by virtue of Zhou Gong. They were all princes who founded the country, with Fu Xiang as their assistant.
All officials obey the law and keep their duties. The system of the country will be complete.
We privately believe that the reason why the state of annexed vassals can reaffirm the commonwealth is because the vassals of the world each pay tribute and sacrifice to the emperor according to their duties.
Branch children are not allowed to offer sacrifices to their ancestors, as this is stipulated by the etiquette system.
The feudal princes were allowed to defend the vassal state, and the emperor could use this to support their virtues and transform them.
Your Majesty flatters the will of heaven and governs the world, carries forward the legacy of the sages, honors the virtuous and virtuous, makes outstanding achievements, and supports the rise of a country that is about to be extinct.
Xiao He's descendants continued to be granted the title of Fuxi, and they praised Gongsun Hong and other ministers.
It clearly shows the order of honor and inferiority among the six relatives, and shows the affiliation given by God, so that the princes, kings and kings can distribute personal favors to their children, and give them titles and titles to build more than a hundred princes and kings.
However, if the prince is regarded as a prince, there will be an overestimation of superiority and inferiority, and the ranking will be out of order, and the inheritance cannot be passed on to future generations.
The ministers and others requested that ministers Liu Hong, minister Liu Dan, and minister Liu Xu be made princes and kings.
On Bingzi day of March, we entered Weiyang Palace.
The emperor issued an edict stating: The reason why Uncle Kang was honored alone among his ten brothers was to praise virtuous people.
The Duke of Zhou was authorized to offer sacrifices to the gods in the countryside, so the state of Lu had white male animals and red cattle as sacrifices.
Other princes sacrifice animals with impure coats. This is the difference between the wise and the unworthy. Their lofty morals are admirable, and their upright behavior is desirable. I respect them very much.
In this way, it is enough to suppress the princes who have not become virtuous and make them princes.
On the day of Wuyin in April, he went to the Weiyang Palace to report: Prime Minister Qing Zhai and Yushi Dafu Chen Zhang Tang risked their lives to advise: Qing Zhai and others discussed with the princes, two thousand stone-level officials, admonishing officials, doctor Chen Qing and others: risking their lives to report that the prince should be established as the king of princes.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
制曰： 康叔亲属有十而独尊者，襃有德也。
周公祭天命郊，故鲁有白牡、骍刚之牲。
群公不毛，贤不肖差也。 高山仰之，景行乡之 ，朕甚慕焉。
所以抑未成，家以列侯可。
臣青翟、臣汤、博士臣将行等伏闻康叔亲属有十，武王继体，周公辅成王，其八人皆以祖考之尊建为大国。
康叔之年幼，周公在三公之位，而伯禽据国於鲁，盖爵命之时，未至成人。
康叔後扞禄父之难，伯禽殄淮夷之乱。
昔五帝异制，周爵五等，春秋三等，皆因时而序尊卑。
高皇帝拨乱世反诸正，昭至德，定海内，封建诸侯，爵位二等。
皇子或在襁褓而立为诸侯王，奉承天子，为万世法则，不可易。
陛下躬亲仁义，体行圣德，表里文武。
显慈孝之行，广贤能之路。
内襃有德，外讨彊暴。
极临北海，西月氏，匈奴、西域，举国奉师。
舆械之费，不赋於民。
虚御府之藏以赏元戎，开禁仓以振贫穷，减戍卒之半。
百蛮之君，靡不乡风，承流称意。
远方殊俗，重译而朝，泽及方外。
故珍兽至，嘉穀兴，天应甚彰。
今诸侯支子封至诸侯王，而家皇子为列侯，臣青翟、臣汤等窃伏孰计之，皆以为尊卑失序，使天下失望，不可。
臣请立臣闳、臣旦、臣胥为诸侯王。 四月癸未，奏未央宫，留中不下。
translation: 
The emperor ordered: The reason why Uncle Kang was honored alone among his ten brothers was to praise virtuous people.
The Duke of Zhou was authorized to offer sacrifices to the gods in the countryside, so the state of Lu had white male animals and red cattle as sacrifices.
Other princes sacrifice animals with impure coats. This is the difference between the wise and the unworthy. Their lofty morals are admirable, and their upright behavior is desirable. I respect them very much.
In this way, it is enough to suppress the princes who have not become virtuous and make them princes.
Chen Qingzhai, Chen Zhangtang, Dr. Chen Jiangxing, etc. heard that there were ten brothers in Uncle Kang. King Wu succeeded to the throne, and Duke Zhou assisted him in becoming king. The other eight people all built a great country because of the nobility of their grandfather and father.
Uncle Kang was young, Duke Zhou was in the position of the three dukes, and Boqin was in the feudal state of Lu. This was because he was not yet an adult when he was granted the title of nobility.
Later, Uncle Kang defended Lu Fu from trouble. Bo Qin eliminated the Huaiyi rebellion.
In the past, the five emperors had different systems. The Zhou Dynasty had fifth-class titles, while the Spring and Autumn Period had only three-class titles. They all arranged the order of superiority and inferiority according to different times.
Emperor Gao brought order to the chaos, showed his virtue, stabilized the country, divided the feudal lords, and divided his titles into two classes.
Some of the princes were established as princes and kings while they were still in Yugui, so as to succeed the emperor. This was an eternal law and could not be changed.
The emperor practiced benevolence and righteousness, spread holy virtues personally, and coordinated with each other with civil, political, and martial arts.
Promote the virtues of love and filial piety, and expand the path of meritocracy.
Praise the virtuous people at home, and punish the violent thieves externally.
Bordering the Hanhai Sea in the north and reaching Yuezhi in the west, the Xiongnu and the Western Regions all followed his example.
The cost of carriages, weapons and equipment is not levied on the people.
All the treasures stored in the imperial treasury were used to reward soldiers, and the forbidden warehouses were opened to provide relief to the poor, and the garrison soldiers were reduced by half.
The rulers of hundreds of barbarians and barbarians all admired him and praised him for being taught by the Han Dynasty.
People from distant lands came to worship without hesitation, and the blessings of the Holy God spread to remote places.
Therefore, rare birds and animals from all over the world are constantly being sent, Jiahe rice and grain harvests are abundant, and the influence of heaven is very obvious.
Nowadays, the princes' sons are all granted the title of princes, but the prince is granted the title of prince. After repeated discussions in private, ministers Qingzhai and Zhangtang agreed that it was unacceptable to lose the order of respect and disappoint the people of the world.
The minister requested that ministers Liu Hong, minister Liu Dan, and minister Liu Xu be made princes and kings. On the day of Guiwei in April, he entered the Weiyang Palace and the memorial was left in the palace without any instructions.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
丞相臣青翟、太仆臣贺、行御史大夫事太常臣充、太子少傅臣安行宗正事昧死言：臣青翟等前奏大司马臣去病上疏言，皇子未有号位，臣谨与御史大夫臣汤、中二千石、二千石、谏大夫、博士臣庆等昧死请立皇子臣闳等为诸侯王。
陛下让文武，躬自切，及皇子未教。
群臣之议，儒者称其术，或誖其心。
陛下固辞弗许，家皇子为列侯。
臣青翟等窃与列侯臣寿成等二十七人议，皆曰以为尊卑失序。
高皇帝建天下，为汉太祖，王子孙，广支辅。
先帝法则弗改，所以宣至尊也。
臣请令史官择吉日，具礼仪上，御史奏舆地图，他皆如前故事。
制曰： 可。
四月丙申，奏未央宫。 太仆臣贺行御史大夫事昧死言：太常臣充言卜入四月二十八日乙巳，可立诸侯王。
臣昧死奏舆地图，请所立国名。
礼仪别奏。
臣昧死请。
制曰： 立皇子闳为齐王，旦为燕王，胥为广陵王。
四月丁酉，奏未央宫。
六年四月戊寅朔，癸卯，御史大夫汤下丞相，丞相下中二千石，二千石下郡太守、诸侯相，丞书从事下当用者。
如律令。
维六年四月乙巳，皇帝使御史大夫汤庙立子闳为齐王。
曰：於戏，小子闳，受兹青社！
朕承祖考，维稽古建尔国家，封于东土，世为汉籓辅。
於戏念哉！
恭朕之诏，惟命不于常。
人之好德，克明显光。
义之不图，俾君子怠。
悉尔心，允执其中，天禄永终。
厥有炋臧，乃凶于而国，害于尔躬。
於戏，保国艾民，可不敬与！
王其戒之。
右齐王策。
维六年四月乙巳，皇帝使御史大夫汤庙立子旦为燕王。
曰：於戏，小子旦，受兹玄社！
translation: 
Prime Minister Qing Zhai, Grand Servant Gongsun He, Xingyu Shi Dafu Shi Taichang Chen Zhao Chong, Prince Shaofu Chen Ren An Xingzong Zheng Shi Chang died and made a speech: Chen Qing Zhai and others previously made a memorial to the great minister Ma Chen Huo Qubing. Shangshu said that the prince did not have a title to the throne. I, together with the imperial censors Zhang Tang, Zhong Erqianshi, Erqianshi, Jianyi and Dr. Chen Qing, etc. Chang died, requested that the prince Liu Hong be made king of the princes.
Your Majesty humbled himself in his civil and military skills, and was very sincere in his responsibility. He mentioned that the prince had not learned the teachings.
Confucian scholars praised the suggestions of ministers, but sometimes they contradicted them.
His Majesty resolutely refused and refused to agree, and only allowed the prince to be granted the title of lord.
The minister Qing Zhai and others discussed privately with 27 people including the prince minister Xiao Shoucheng, and they all believed that there was no order of honor and inferiority.
Emperor Gao founded the world, became the Taizu of the Han Dynasty, named his descendants kings, and expanded his support and support.
The laws of the late emperor should not be changed to show the supreme dignity of the late emperor.
I request your majesty to order the historian to choose an auspicious day, prepare a list of rituals, and order the censor to submit a map. Everything else should be as before.
The emperor issued an edict and said: "Okay."
On the Bingshen day of April, he entered the Weiyang Palace and reported: Gongsun He, the imperial minister, acted as the official censor, Chang Shi, and said: Zhao Chong, the imperial minister, said that he knew through divination that at the second hour of April 28, the princes and kings could be established.
After Chen Chang died, he submitted a map and asked him to name the feudal state he established.
More details about the ceremony will be given separately.
Chen Chang died and requested.
The emperor issued an edict: Make the prince Liu Hong the King of Qi, Liu Dan the King of Yan, and Liu Xu the King of Guangling.
On Dingyou Day in April, I entered Weiyang Palace.
On the first day of April in the sixth year of Yuanshou, on Guimao day, Zhang Tang, the imperial censor, issued orders to the prime minister. The prime minister issued orders to officials with a rank of 2,000 stone. The officials with a rank of 2,000 stone issued orders to the prefect of the county and the ministers of the princes. The secretary was responsible for issuing orders to relevant personnel.
Follow orders.
On Yisi day of April in the sixth year of Yuanshou, the emperor asked Zhang Tang, the imperial censor, to inform the temple and establish the prince Liu Hong as the king of Qi.
The imperial edict said: Oh, my son Liu Hong, accept this package of blue social soil!
I inherited the imperial legacy of my ancestors, and based on the system of the previous kings, I granted your country a title in the east. I will serve as a vassal and auxiliary minister of the Han Dynasty for generations.
Woohoo, don’t forget to read this!
You must respect my edict and remember that destiny is not fixed.
Only when people love goodness can they show their light.
If you do not pursue virtue and justice, your ministers will become slack.
Try your best to adhere to the righteous path sincerely, and you will be able to maintain your heavenly fortune forever.
If there is something evil and bad, it will harm your country and yourself.
Woohoo, protect the country and protect the people, how can you not be cautious?
King Qi, you must be careful.
The above is the policy of King Qi.
On Yisi day of April in the sixth year of Yuanshou, the emperor sent Zhang Tang, the imperial doctor, to inform the temple and establish the prince Liu Dan as King of Yan.
The imperial edict said: Oh, my son Liu Dan, accept this bag of black social soil!


Chunk 4: 
original: 
朕承祖考，维稽古，建尔国家，封于北土，世为汉籓辅。
於戏！
荤粥氏虐老兽心，侵犯寇盗，加以奸巧边萌。
於戏！
朕命将率徂征厥罪，万夫长，千夫长，三十有二君皆来，降期奔师。
荤粥徙域，北州以绥。
悉尔心，毋作怨，毋俷德，毋乃废备。
非教士不得从徵。
於戏，保国艾民，可不敬与！
王其戒之。
右燕王策。
维六年四月乙巳，皇帝使御史大夫汤庙立子胥为广陵王。
曰：於戏，小子胥，受兹赤社！
朕承祖考，维稽古建尔国家，封于南土，世为汉籓辅。
古人有言曰： 大江之南，五湖之间，其人轻心。
杨州保疆，三代要服，不及以政。
於戏！
悉尔心，战战兢兢，乃惠乃顺，毋侗好轶，毋迩宵人，维法维则。
书云： 臣不作威，不作福，靡有後羞。
於戏，保国艾民，可不敬与！
王其戒之。
右广陵王策。
太史公曰：古人有言曰 爱之欲其富，亲之欲其贵 。
故王者壃土建国，封立子弟，所以襃亲亲，序骨肉，尊先祖，贵支体，广同姓於天下也。
是以形势彊而王室安。
自古至今，所由来久矣。
非有异也，故弗论箸也。
燕齐之事，无足采者。
然封立三王，天子恭让，群臣守义，文辞烂然，甚可观也，是以附之世家。
褚先生曰：臣幸得以文学为侍郎，好览观太史公之列传。
传中称三王世家文辞可观，求其世家终不能得。
窃从长老好故事者取其封策书，编列其事而传之，令後世得观贤主之指意。
盖闻孝武帝之时，同日而俱拜三子为王：封一子於齐，一子於广陵，一子於燕。
各因子才力智能，及土地之刚柔，人民之轻重，为作策以申戒之。谓王： 世为汉籓辅，保国治民，可不敬与！
王其戒之。
夫贤主所作，固非浅闻者所能知，非博闻彊记君子者所不能究竟其意。
至其次序分绝，文字之上下，简之参差长短，皆有意，人莫之能知。
谨论次其真草诏书，编于左方。令览者自通其意而解说之。
translation: 
I inherited the imperial legacy of my ancestors, and based on the system of the previous kings, I granted your country a title in the north, and served as a vassal and vassal for generations.
Alas!
The Hunzhou family had the heart of a beast to abuse the elderly, and invaded and plundered everywhere, raping and killing border residents.
Alas!
I ordered the general to lead the army to punish his crimes. Their leaders of ten thousand men and thousands of men, a total of thirty-two commanders, came to surrender and fled.
The meat porridge moved to Mobei, and the north became stable.
Try your best, don't make grudges with others, don't do immoral things, don't abandon your weapons.
Scholars and civilians are not allowed to join the army without training.
Alas! To protect the country and protect the people, how can we not be cautious?
King Yan, you must be careful.
The above is the policy of King Yan.
On Yisi day of April in the sixth year of Yuanshou, the emperor asked the imperial censor Zhang Tang to inform the temple and establish the prince Liu Xu as the king of Guangling.
The imperial edict said: Oh, my son Liu Xu, accept this bag of red social soil!
I inherited the imperial legacy of my ancestors, and based on the system of the previous kings, I granted your country a title in the south and served as a vassal and auxiliary minister of the Han Dynasty for generations.
There is an ancient saying: South of the river, between the five lakes, the people in this area are frivolous.
Yangzhou was the frontier that protected the Central Plains. In the Third Dynasty, it was an outskirts of Wangji, but it could not be reached by politics and religion.
Alas!
Do your best and be careful, and the people will be docile. Don't be ignorant, don't be happy and enjoy hunting, don't get close to villains, everything must be done according to the rules.
"Shangshu" says: If the ministers do not dominate the people, they will not be humiliated.
Woohoo, protect the country and protect the people, how can you not be cautious?
King Guangling, you must be careful.
The above is the policy of King Guangling.
Tai Shigong said: There is an ancient saying: If you love someone, you wish him to be rich; if you kiss him, you wish him to be noble.
Therefore, the king broke up the land to build a country, and divided his children into enfeoffments to praise relatives, separate flesh and blood, respect ancestors, exalt people of the same clan, and spread people with the same surname throughout the world.
Therefore, the country must be strong and the royal family must be stable.
It has a long history from ancient times to the present.
There is no difference in the past generations, so there is no need to discuss it.
The fact that King Yan and King Qi were granted the title is not worth writing about.
However, after the three kings were appointed, the emperor was courteous and courteous, the ministers adhered to morality, and the diction was brilliant and worthy of appreciation, so it was attached to the family.
Mr. Chu Shaosun said: I am very lucky to be a minister by virtue of literature, and I like to read the biographies of Tai Shigong.
The biography praised "Three Kings' Family" for its impressive writing, but the search for Three Kings' Family has never been successful.
Privately obtain the seal policy books kept by the elders who like old things, and compile the relevant deeds in them so that they can be passed down to future generations so that future generations can know the will of the wise master.
When I heard about Emperor Xiaowu, he consecrated three sons as kings on the same day: a prince in Qi, a prince in Guangling, and a prince in Yan.
According to the talents and intelligence of the prince, the barrenness and fertility of the land, the frivolity and solemnity of the people, they wrote a policy to warn them: For generations, the vassal ministers of the Han Dynasty have protected the country and the people, how can they not respect caution!
Kings must be careful.
What a wise king does is not something that an ignorant person can understand. If he is not well-informed and memorized, a gentleman will not be able to fully understand his meaning.
As for the order and paragraphing of the edict, the ups and downs of the language, and the varying lengths of the policies, they all have profound meanings that others cannot understand.
I would like to discuss and catalog these imperial edicts in this manuscript and list them below so that readers can understand their purpose by themselves.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
王夫人者，赵人也，与卫夫人并幸武帝，而生子闳。
闳且立为王时，其母病，武帝自临问之。
曰： 子当为王，欲安所置之？
王夫人曰： 陛下在，妾又何等可言者。
帝曰： 虽然，意所欲，欲於何所王之？ 王夫人曰： 原置之雒阳。
武帝曰： 雒阳有武库敖仓，天下旻戹，汉国之大都也。
先帝以来，无子王於雒阳者。
去雒阳，馀尽可。
王夫人不应。
武帝曰： 关东之国无大於齐者。
齐东负海而城郭大，古时独临菑中十万户，天下膏腴地莫盛於齐者矣。
王夫人以手击头，谢曰： 幸甚。
王夫人死而帝痛之，使使者拜之曰： 皇帝谨使使太中大夫明奉璧一，赐夫人为齐王太后。
子闳王齐，年少，无有子，立，不幸早死，国绝，为郡。
天下称齐不宜王云。
所谓 受此土 者，诸侯王始封者必受土於天子之社，归立之以为国社，以岁时祠之。
春秋大传曰： 天子之国有泰社。东方青，南方赤，西方白，北方黑，上方黄。
故将封於东方者取青土，封於南方者取赤土，封於西方者取白土，封於北方者取黑土，封於上方者取黄土。
各取其色物，裹以白茅，封以为社。
此始受封於天子者也。
此之为主土。
主土者，立社而奉之也。 朕承祖考 ，祖者先也，考者父也。 维稽古 ，维者度也，念也，稽者当也，当顺古之道也。
齐地多变诈，不习於礼义，故戒之曰 恭朕之诏，唯命不可为常。
人之好德，能明显光。
不图於义，使君子怠慢。
悉若心，信执其中，天禄长终。有过不善，乃凶于而国，而害于若身 。
齐王之国，左右维持以礼义，不幸中年早夭。
translation: 
Mrs. Wang was a native of Zhao. She and Mrs. Wei were favored by Emperor Wu and gave birth to Liu Hong.
When Liu Hong was about to be crowned king, his mother fell ill, and Emperor Wu went to see her in person.
Asked: My son should be crowned king. Where do you want him to be crowned?
Mrs. Wang said: With His Majesty here, what can I say?
Emperor Wu said: Even so, as far as your wish is concerned, where do you want to make him king? Mrs. Wang said: I hope it will be sealed in Luoyang.
Emperor Wu said: Luoyang has arsenals and granaries. It is an important place in the world and the capital of the Han Dynasty.
Since the late emperor, no prince has been crowned king in Luoyang.
Except for Luoyang, other places are fine.
Mrs. Wang remained silent.
Emperor Wu said: There is no country in Guandong bigger than Qi.
The state of Qi is close to the sea in the east and has a large city. In ancient times, there were 100,000 households in Linqian City alone. No country in the world has more fertile land than the state of Qi.
Mrs. Wang hit her head with her hand and said thanks: Great.
Later, Mrs. Wang died of illness. Emperor Wu was very sad and sent an envoy to pay homage and said: The emperor would like to send the envoy Taizhong Dafu Ming to hold a piece of jade and confer upon his wife the title of Queen Mother of Qi.
The prince Liu Hong was the king of Qi. He was young and had no sons. After he was established as king, he unfortunately died early and the country was abolished and turned into a county.
People say that it is not suitable to be crowned a king.
The so-called "receive this soil" means that when the princes and kings first received the title, they must receive the soil from the place where the emperor worshiped the earth god. When they returned to the feudal country, they established their own national shrine and worshiped it every year.
"Spring and Autumn Period" records: In the country of the Son of Heaven, there is Taishe. The east is cyan, the south is red, the west is white, the north is black, and the center is yellow.
Therefore, those entrusted to the east should take green earth, those entrusted to the south should take red earth, and those entrusted to the west should take white earth. Those who were entrusted to the north took black soil, and those who were entrusted to the central capital area took loess.
Everyone takes his own color soil, wraps it with white thatch, seals it and uses it as a community.
This was the situation when he was first granted the title of Emperor.
This is called the main soil.
For the main soil, a social altar should be built to worship it. I inherit the meaning of zu kao, zu is the ancestor, and zu kao is the father. The meaning of "Wei Ji Gu" is that "Wei Ji" means to ponder and consider, and "Ji Ji" means "should", which means that one should obey the ways of the ancients.
The people of Qi were often treacherous and ungrateful, so the emperor warned the king of Qi: "Please accept my order respectfully and remember that the destiny of heaven is fixed and unchangeable."
Only when people love goodness can they show their light.
If you do not pursue morality and justice, your subordinates will become lazy.
Try your best to adhere to the righteous path sincerely, and you will be able to maintain your heavenly fortune forever. If there is something evil and bad, it will harm your country and yourself.
When the King of Qi arrived in the feudal country, the ministers on the left and right were able to maintain and protect him with etiquette and justice. Unfortunately, the King of Qi died in middle age.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
然全身无过，如其策意。
传曰 青采出於蓝，而质青於蓝 者，教使然也。
远哉贤主，昭然独见：诫齐王以慎内；诫燕王以无作怨，无俷德；诫广陵王以慎外，无作威与福。
夫广陵在吴越之地，其民精而轻，故诫之曰 江湖之间，其人轻心。
杨州葆疆，三代之时，迫要使从中国俗服，不大及以政教，以意御之而已。
无侗好佚，无迩宵人，维法是则。
无长好佚乐驰骋弋猎淫康，而近小人。
常念法度，则无羞辱矣 。
三江、五湖有鱼盐之利，铜山之富，天下所仰。
故诫之曰 臣不作福 者，勿使行财币，厚赏赐，以立声誉，为四方所归也。
又曰 臣不作威 者，勿使因轻以倍义也。
会孝武帝崩，孝昭帝初立，先朝广陵王胥，厚赏赐金钱财币，直三千馀万，益地百里，邑万户。
会昭帝崩，宣帝初立，缘恩行义，以本始元年中，裂汉地，尽以封广陵王胥四子：一子为朝阳侯；一子为平曲侯；一子为南利侯；最爱少子弘，立以为高密王。
其後胥果作威福，通楚王使者。
楚王宣言曰： 我先元王，高帝少弟也，封三十二城。
今地邑益少，我欲与广陵王共发兵云。
广陵王为上，我复王楚三十二城，如元王时。
事发觉，公卿有司请行罚诛。
天子以骨肉之故，不忍致法於胥，下诏书无治广陵王，独诛首恶楚王。
传曰 蓬生麻中，不扶自直；白沙在泥中，与之皆黑 者，土地教化使之然也。
其後胥复祝诅谋反，自杀，国除。
translation: 
However, he was blameless in his life and obeyed the instructions given to him.
Ancient books say that indigo is extracted from indigo, and the color is greener than indigo, which means that education makes it so.
The visionary sage had unique insights: he warned the King of Qi to be cautious internally; he warned the King of Yan not to make grudges with others and not to do immoral things; he warned the King of Guangling to be cautious externally and not to act arrogantly.
Guangling is in the land of Wu and Yue. The people in this place are shrewd and frivolous, so the emperor warned King Guangling: "Between the rivers and lakes, the people in this area are frivolous."
Yangzhou is the frontier that protects the Central Plains. For three generations, they were forced to follow the customs and costumes of the Central Plains, but they did not have enough political and religious standards and could only control them with their hearts.
Don't be ignorant, don't be greedy for comfort, don't get close to villains, and do everything in accordance with the rules.
Don't be too happy and get too close to villains.
If you always think of the law, there will be no shame.
The Sanjiang and Wuhu areas are rich in fish and salt, and the wealth of Tongshan is the envy of everyone in the world.
Therefore, the emperor warned that ministers should not do blessings. His intention was to say not to abuse money and money and reward excessively, so as to establish a reputation and make people from all over the world come to join him.
He also said that the purpose of the minister not to act in a threatening manner was to prevent him from taking advantage of the local people's frivolity and betraying etiquette and justice.
It happened that Emperor Xiaowu died and Emperor Xiaozhao succeeded to the throne. He rewarded the former King of Guangling Liu Xu with a lot of money and property, worth more than 30 million, and increased the fiefdom by hundreds of miles and the food for thousands of households.
It also coincided with the death of Emperor Zhao and the early accession of Emperor Xuan to the throne. Due to the kindness of flesh and blood and the implementation of moral principles, in the first year of Benshi, the Han Dynasty was divided and used to divide the four sons of Guangling King Liu Xu: one was named Chaoyang Marquis; one was named Pingqu Marquis; one was named Nanli Marquis; the most favored youngest son Liu Hong was established as the King of Gaomi.
Later, Liu Xu really showed his power and sent envoys to collude with the king of Chu.
The King of Chu threatened: My ancestor, King Yuan, was the younger brother of Emperor Gaozu and had thirty-two cities.
Now that there are fewer and fewer fiefdom cities, I want to raise an army together with King Guangling.
Support King Guangling as the emperor, and restore the thirty-two cities that King Yuan granted me to King Chu, just like they were during King Yuan's time.
This incident was discovered, and Gongqing Guanshi asked for punishment.
Because of his kinship, the emperor could not bear to enforce the law against Liu Xu, so he issued an edict not to punish King Guangling, but only to kill the evil leader King Chu.
Ancient books say: The fluffy grass grows in hemp and does not need support to stand upright naturally; the white sand grows in the sludge and is as black as the sludge. That is to say, environmental influence makes them become like this.
After that, Liu Xu prayed to God to bring disaster and planned a rebellion. As a result, he committed suicide and the feudal state was abolished.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
燕土墝埆，北迫匈奴，其人民勇而少虑，故诫之曰 荤粥氏无有孝行而禽兽心，以窃盗侵犯边民。
朕诏将军往征其罪，万夫长，千夫长，三十有二君皆来，降旗奔师。
荤粥徙域远处，北州以安矣 。 悉若心，无作怨 者，勿使从俗以怨望也。 无俷德 者，勿使背德也。 无废备 者，无乏武备，常备匈奴也。 非教士不得从徵 者，言非习礼义不得在於侧也。
会武帝年老长，而太子不幸薨，未有所立，而旦使来上书，请身入宿卫於长安。
孝武见其书，击地，怒曰： 生子当置之齐鲁礼义之乡，乃置之燕赵，果有争心，不让之端见矣。
於是使使即斩其使者於阙下。
会武帝崩，昭帝初立，旦果作怨而望大臣。
自以长子当立，与齐王子刘泽等谋为叛逆，出言曰： 我安得弟在者！
今立者乃大将军子也。
欲发兵。
事发觉，当诛。
昭帝缘恩宽忍，抑案不扬。
公卿使大臣请，遣宗正与太中大夫公户满意、御史二人，偕往使燕，风喻之。
到燕，各异日，更见责王。
宗正者，主宗室诸刘属籍，先见王，为列陈道昭帝实武帝子状。
侍御史乃复见王，责之以正法，问： 王欲发兵罪名明白，当坐之。
汉家有正法，王犯纤介小罪过，即行法直断耳，安能宽王。
惊动以文法。
王意益下，心恐。
公户满意习於经术，最後见王，称引古今通义，国家大礼，文章尔雅。
谓王曰： 古者天子必内有异姓大夫，所以正骨肉也；外有同姓大夫，所以正异族也。
周公辅成王，诛其两弟，故治。
武帝在时，尚能宽王。
今昭帝始立，年幼，富於春秋，未临政，委任大臣。
古者诛罚不阿亲戚，故天下治。
translation: 
The land of Yan was barren and close to the Xiongnu in the north. The people in this area were brave but lacked strategy, so the emperor warned the king of Yan that the Hunzhou family had no filial piety but had the heart of a beast, stealing and invading the border people.
I ordered the generals to punish him for his crimes. The generals who commanded ten thousand people, the generals who commanded thousands of people, and thirty-two monarchs all came to surrender and fled.
The Hunzhou clan traveled far and wide, and the north became stable.  He is sincere and has no intention of resentment, just to prevent him from following local customs and causing resentment. The purpose of Wu Yi De was to prevent King Yan from betraying his kindness. The purpose of "no waste equipment" is not to reduce armaments, but to always be on guard against the Huns. The purpose of non-priests not being allowed to serve in the army means that those who are not accustomed to etiquette and righteousness cannot be summoned for use.
When Emperor Wu was old and the prince died prematurely, Liu Dan sent an envoy to write a letter requesting to come to Chang'an to serve as the emperor's bodyguard.
Emperor Wu saw his letter, threw it to the ground, and said angrily: "When I have a son, I should put him in the land of etiquette and righteousness in Qilu, but he was placed in the land of Yanzhao. As expected, he has a competitive spirit and shows signs of disdain."
So Emperor Xiaowu sent people to kill Liu Dan's envoy under the palace gate.
When Emperor Wu died and Emperor Zhao came to the throne, Liu Dan became resentful and resented the ministers.
Liu Dan thought that he should be made emperor because he was old, so he plotted a rebellion with Liu Ze, the son of King Qi, and others, and threatened to say: How can I let my brother be here?
The one who takes the throne now is the son of the general.
Want to send troops.
If the matter is discovered, he should be executed according to law.
Emperor Zhao was tolerant out of the kindness of flesh and blood, so he suppressed the case and prevented it from being publicized.
Gongqing sent ministers to ask the emperor to deal with the matter, and the imperial court sent Zongzheng, Taizhong Dafu Gonghu Satisfaction, and two censors to the State of Yan to persuade the King of Yan.
When they arrived at Yan State, they took turns to meet and question the King of Yan at different times.
Zongzheng, who was in charge of the Liu family's royal household registration, first met with King Yan and listed to him the facts that Emperor Zhao was indeed the son of Emperor Wu.
After that, Shi Yushi went to see the King of Yan again, used the national law to blame him, and asked: King Yan, you want to raise an army to rebel. The crime is very clear and you should be punished.
There was a great law in the Han Dynasty. As long as the kings committed a small crime, they would be sentenced according to the law. How can I forgive you, my king?
He was frightened and shaken by the letter of the law.
King Yan gradually became depressed and fearful.
Satisfied that he was familiar with the principles of Confucianism, Gonghu finally met with the King of Yan, quoting ancient and modern moral principles and national etiquette, and his words were beautiful and upright.
He said to King Yan: In ancient times, the emperor always had officials with different surnames in the court, who were used to correct the children of the royal family; outside the court, there were officials with the same surname, who were used to correct the princes.
Zhou Gong assisted in becoming king and killed his two younger brothers, so the world was at peace.
When Emperor Wu was around, he could still tolerate the king.
Now Emperor Zhao has just succeeded to the throne. He is young and prosperous in his spring and autumn period. He has not yet been in power personally. All powers are delegated to ministers.
In ancient times, people were killed and punished without favoring relatives and relatives, so the world was peaceful.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
方今大臣辅政，奉法直行，无敢所阿，恐不能宽王。
王可自谨，无自令身死国灭，为天下笑。
於是燕王旦乃恐惧服罪，叩头谢过。
大臣欲和合骨肉，难伤之以法。
其後旦复与左将军上官桀等谋反，宣言曰 我次太子，太子不在，我当立，大臣共抑我 云云。
大将军光辅政，与公卿大臣议曰： 燕王旦不改过悔正，行恶不变。
於是脩法直断，行罚诛。
旦自杀，国除，如其策指。
有司请诛旦妻子。
孝昭以骨肉之亲，不忍致法，宽赦旦妻子，免为庶人。
传曰 兰根与白芷，渐之滫中，君子不近，庶人不服 者，所以渐然也。
宣帝初立，推恩宣德，以本始元年中尽复封燕王旦两子：一子为安定侯；立燕故太子建为广阳王，以奉燕王祭祀。
translation: 
Now the ministers assist in political affairs, abide by the law and act honestly, and dare not show favoritism. I am afraid that I cannot forgive you, King Yan.
Your Majesty, please be careful and don't let yourself die and your country be destroyed, and be ridiculed by everyone in the world.
At this time, King Liu Dan of Yan was afraid to admit his guilt and kowtowed to admit his mistake.
The ministers wanted to reconcile their flesh and blood, but could not bear to punish him legally.
Later, Liu Dan conspired with Zuo General Shangguan Jie and others, threatening that I was second in age to the crown prince and that the crown prince was gone and I should succeed to the throne. However, the ministers worked together to suppress me and so on.
General Huo Guang assisted the government and discussed with the ministers: King Liu Dan of Yan will not change his ways and will continue to do as many evil things as before.
So he dealt with the matter directly according to the law and punished him with death.
Liu Dan committed suicide and the feudal state was abolished, as pointed out in the policy text given to him.
Relevant officials requested that Liu Dan's wife and children be executed.
Because they were close relatives, Emperor Zhao couldn't bear to enforce the law, so he pardoned Liu Dan's wife and children and reduced them to commoners.
Ancient books say that if Orchid Root and Angelica Angelica are soaked in smelly water, gentlemen will no longer approach them, and common people will no longer wear them. This is what the environment makes them like.
Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, promoted benevolence and virtue, and in the first year of Benshi, he conferred the title of two sons of King Yan Liu Dan: one son was named Anding Marquis; the original prince Liu Jian of King Yan was named King of Guangyang, allowing him to perform the sacrifices of King Yan.


