Chunk 0: 
original: 
呼韩邪单于归庭数月，罢兵使各归故地，乃收其兄呼屠吾斯在民间者立为左谷蠡王，使人告右贤贵人，欲令杀右贤王。
其冬，都隆奇与右贤王共立日逐王薄胥堂为屠耆单于，发兵数万人东袭呼韩邪单于。
呼韩邪单于兵败走，屠耆单于还，以其长子都涂吾西为左谷蠡王，少子姑瞀楼头为右谷蠡王，留居单于庭。
明年秋，屠耆单于使日逐王先贤掸兄右奥鞬王为乌藉都尉各二万骑，屯东方以备呼韩邪单于。
是时，西方呼揭王来与唯犁当户谋，共谗右贤王，言欲自立为乌藉单于。
屠耆单于杀右贤王父子，后知其冤，复杀唯犁当户。
于是呼揭王恐，遂畔去，自立为呼揭单于。
右奥鞬王闻之，即自立为车犁单于。
乌藉都尉亦自立为乌藉单于。
凡五单于。
屠耆单于自将兵东击车犁单于，使都隆奇击乌藉。
乌藉、车犁皆败，西北走，与呼揭单于兵合为四万人。
乌藉、呼揭皆去单于号，共并力尊辅车犁单于。
屠耆单于闻之，使左大将、都尉将四万骑分屯东方，以备呼韩邪单于，自将四万骑西击车犁单于。
车犁单于败，西北走，屠耆单于即引西南，留闟敦地。
其明年，呼韩邪单于遣其弟右谷蠡王等西袭屠耆单于屯兵，杀略万余人。
屠耆单于闻之，即自将六万骑击呼韩邪单于，行千里，未至嗕姑地，逢呼韩邪单于兵可四万人，合战。
屠耆单于兵败，自杀。
都隆奇乃与屠耆少子右谷蠡王姑瞀楼头亡归汉，车犁单于东降呼韩邪单于。
呼韩邪单于左大将乌厉屈与父呼速累乌厉温敦皆见匈奴乱，率其众数万人南降汉。
封乌厉屈为新城侯，乌厉温敦为义阳侯。
是时，李陵子复立乌藉都尉为单于，呼韩邪单于捕斩之，遂复都单于庭，然众裁数万人。
屠耆单于从弟休旬王将所主五六百骑，击杀左大且渠，并其兵，至右地，自立为闰振单于，在西边。
其后，呼韩邪单于兄左贤王呼屠吾斯亦自立为郅支骨都侯单于，在东边。
其后二年，闰振单于率其众东击郅支单于。
郅支单于与战，杀之，并其兵，遂进攻呼韩邪。呼韩邪破，其兵走，郅支都单于庭。
呼韩邪之败也，左伊秩訾王为呼韩邪计，劝令称臣入朝事汉，从汉求助，如此匈奴乃定。
呼韩邪议问诸大臣，皆曰： 不可。
translation: 
A few months after Huhanxie Shanyu returned to the royal court, he stopped the war and asked everyone to return to their original places. He summoned his brother Hutuwusi, who was a commoner, and appointed him King Zuoguli. He also sent people to inform the nobles of Youxian, asking them to kill King Youxian.
That winter, Dulongqi and King Youxian jointly supported the king Zhu Wanglian and set up the hall as Kenzhouliyu, and sent tens of thousands of troops to the east to attack Huhanxie Chanyu.
Huhanxie Chanyu's army was defeated and fled. Tuqi Chanyu returned to the court of the Xiongnu, and appointed his eldest son Dutuwuxi as the king of Zuoguli, and his youngest son Gujiloutou as the king of rightguli, leaving them in the court of the Shanyu.
In the autumn of the next year, Tuqi Chanyu appointed King Youaota, the elder brother of the Richu King Xianxian Shan, as the Wujie Captain, and asked them to lead 20,000 cavalry respectively and station them at Shubian to guard against Huhanxie Chanyu.
At this time, the king of Hujie from the west came to plan with Weili, and together they slandered the Shanyu of Tu Qi and slandered King Youxian, saying that he wanted to establish himself as a Uprising Chanyu.
So Tuqi Chanyu killed King Youxian and his son. Later, Tuqi Chanyu knew that King Youxian had been wronged, so he killed Weili in his own right.
Therefore, King Hujie was very frightened, so he betrayed Tuqi Chanyu and ran away, and established himself as Hujie Chanyu.
When King Youao Tartar heard about it, he established himself as the chayu chanyu.
Wujiu Duwei also established himself as Wujii Chanyu.
In this way, the Xiongnu had five chanyus.
Tuqi Chanyu personally led his troops eastward to attack Cheli Chanyu, and sent Dulongqi to attack Wujii Chanyu.
Both Wujii Chanyu and Chesai Chanyu were defeated and fled to the northwest to join Hujie Chanyu's army, which totaled 40,000 people.
King Wujie and King Hujie both removed their titles of Chanyu and worked together to assist Chanyu Cheli.
When Tuqi Chanyu heard about it, he sent General Zuo and Duwei with 40,000 cavalry to station in the east to guard against Huhanxie Chanyu. King Xingzhouli himself led 40,000 cavalry to the west to attack Cheli Chanyu.
Cheli Chanyu was defeated and fled to the northwest. Tuqi Chanyu led his army to the southwest and garrisoned at Mengdun.
The next year, Huhanxie Chanyu sent his younger brother Yougu Li Wang and others to lead troops west to attack Tuqi Chanyu's army stationed in Hedun, killing and plundering more than 10,000 people.
When Tu Qi Chanyu heard about it, he personally led 60,000 cavalry to attack Huhanxie Chanyu. They had traveled nearly a thousand miles, but they hadn't arrived yet! In the cricket area, they encountered Huhanxie Chanyu's nearly 40,000 troops.
The two sides fought, and Tu Qi Shanyu was defeated and committed suicide.
Tsang Longtong escaped with Tu Qi Chanyu's youngest son, Youguli Wang Guzhong Loutou, and surrendered. Cheli Chanyu went east and surrendered to Huhanxie Shanren.
Hu Hanxie Shanyu's left-hand general Dan Quli and his father Hu Yingleigu Nie Wenzheng saw Bao Nui in such chaos, so they led tens of thousands of their troops to surrender to the south and surrendered to Forsythia.
He also sealed Wu Li Zhou as the new city marquis and Gu Li Wen Chi as the Zhan Wu Fort.
At this time, Kui Lu's son supported Zhou Jiedu as Chanyu. Huhanxie Chanyu sent people to hunt and kill them. So Huhanxie Chanyu returned to the court of the Xiongnu. However, there were only tens of thousands of people in his tribe.
King Xiu Xun, cousin of Tu Qi Chanyu, led his five or six hundred cavalry to attack and kill Zuo Daqiequ, annexed his army, arrived at Youdi, and established himself as Runzhen Chanyu, living in the west of the Xiongnu.
Later, Huhanxie Chanyu's brother Zuoxian King Hutuwusi also established himself as Chanyu, the Marquis of Zhizhigu, and lived in Baosusubu.
Two years later, Runzhen Chanyu led his troops to attack Zhizhi Chanyu eastward.
Zhizhi Chanyu faced off against Runzhen Chanyu, killed him, annexed his troops, and then attacked Huhanxie Chanyu. The army was defeated, and Zhizhi Chanyu made his capital in the royal court.
When Huhanxie was defeated and Huhanxie Shanyu was defeated, King Zuoyi Zhizi made plans for King Lizheng Wuli, and persuaded him to surrender to Han and serve the emperor, so as to seek help from Huansu Nabuo, so that he could stabilize his body.
Huhanxie Shanyu discussed with the ministers and asked them. The ministers all said: This cannot be done.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
匈奴之俗，本上气力而下服役，以马上战斗为国，故有威名于百蛮。
战死，壮士所有也。
今兄弟争国，不在兄则在弟，虽死犹有威名，子孙常长诸国。汉虽强，犹不能兼并匈奴，奈何乱先古之制，臣事于汉，卑辱先单于，为诸国所笑！
虽如是而安，何以复长百蛮！ 左伊秩訾曰： 不然。
强弱有时，今汉方盛，乌孙城郭诸国皆为臣妾。
自且鞮侯单于以来，匈奴日削，不能取复，虽屈强于此，未尝一日安也。
今事汉则安存，不事则危亡，计何以过此！
诸大人相难久之。呼韩邪从其计，引众南近塞，遣子右贤王铢娄渠堂入侍。
郅支单于亦遣子右大将驹于利受入侍。
是岁，甘露元年也。
明年，呼韩邪单于款五原塞，愿朝三年正月。
汉遣车骑都尉韩昌迎，发过所七郡郡二千骑，为陈道上。
单于正月朝天子于甘泉宫，汉宠际殊礼，位在诸侯王上，赞谒称臣而不名。
赐以冠带衣裳、黄金玺戾绶、玉具剑、佩刀、弓一张、矢四发、棨戟十、安车一乘、鞍勒一县、马十五匹、黄金二十斤、钱二十万、衣被七十七袭、锦绣绮縠杂帛八千匹、絮六千斤。
礼毕，使使者道单于先行，宿长平。
上自甘泉宿池阳宫。
translation: 
The custom of our Huns has always been to advocate bravery and strength, and despise surrender and service to others. We build our own country by fighting others on war horses, so we have high prestige among many ethnic minorities.
To die in battle is a heroic act.
Now you brothers are competing for the throne. The winner is either the elder brother or the younger brother. Even if he dies in the battle, he still leaves a good reputation of majesty. Your descendants can still dominate the countries and be their kings. Even if the Han Dynasty is very powerful, it cannot annex the Xiongnu. How can we disrupt the system set by our ancestors, surrender to the Han Dynasty, tarnish the reputation of the first Chanyu, and be laughed at by all countries!
Even if we did this and pacified the Xiongnu, how could we then dominate the various ethnic minorities and become their rulers? Zuo Yi Zhizi said: What you said is wrong.
They were strong at that time and weak at this time, which cannot be said in the same way. Now when the Han Dynasty is prosperous, the countries in the Western Regions that built cities and settled in the country, such as Wusun, all surrendered to the Han Dynasty.
Since the time of Qie Qianhou Chanyu, the Xiongnu territory has been invaded day by day, but we have been unable to recover. Although we are still trying to show off our strength here, we have never been quiet for a day.
The current situation is: if we serve the Han Dynasty, we can survive safely, otherwise we will only perish. What better strategy can there be than this!
Those Xiongnu ministers debated for a long time, and finally Huhanxie Chanyu followed the advice of King Zuoyi Zhizi, led his troops to go south, approached the Han Dynasty frontier, and sent his son Youxian King Zhuo Louqutang to the court to serve the Han emperor.
And Zhizhi Shanyu also sent his son Ju Yuli, the right general, to serve the emperor of Han Dynasty.
This year is the first year of Juli.
In the second year, Hu Hanxie Shanyu arrived at Wuyuan Fortress, hoping to pay homage to the Emperor of Han in the first month of the third year.
The Han Dynasty sent Han Chang, the commander of chariots and cavalry, to greet him, and ordered 2,000 cavalry from the seven counties that Hu Hanxie Shanyu was going to pass through to serve as guards on the roadsides.
In the first month of the first lunar month, Hu Hanxie went to court to choose the emperor. The emperor treated him with special and solemn etiquette. The Shanyu's status was higher than that of the princes and kings. When the Shanyu came to pay homage, he only called himself "chen" and did not need to state his name.
The Emperor Huansu gave Bihan Xie Chanyu the official uniform of Huanqiao, a golden seal decorated with a ribbon dyed with rhizome, a sword with jade on the nose, a sword, a bow, twelve arrows, and a blouse. Ten halberds, a chariot, a set of saddles and bridles, fifteen horses, twenty kilograms of gold, two hundred thousand yuan, seventy-seven sets of clothes and quilts, a total of eight thousand pieces of brocade, satin and miscellaneous silk, and six thousand kilograms of coarse silk and cotton.
After the court ceremony was completed, an envoy was sent to guide Shanyu to go ahead and live in Changping.
The emperor went from Ganquan Palace to Chiyang Palace and lived there.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
上登长平，诏单于毋谒，其左右当户之群臣皆得列观，及诸蛮夷君长王侯数万，咸迎于渭桥下，夹道陈。
上登渭桥，咸称万岁。
单于就邸，留月余，遣归国。
单于自请愿留居光禄塞下，有急保汉受降城。
汉遣长乐卫尉高昌侯董忠、车骑都尉韩昌将骑万六千，又发边郡士马以千数，送单于出朔方鸡鹿塞。
诏忠等留卫单于，助诛不服，又转边谷米糒，前后三万四千斛，给赡其食。
是岁，郅支单于亦遣使奉献，汉遇之甚厚。
明年，两单于俱遣使朝献，汉待呼韩邪使有加。
明年，呼韩邪单于复入朝，礼赐如初，加衣百一十袭，锦帛九千匹，絮八千斤。
以有屯兵，故不复发骑为送。
始，郅支单于以为呼韩邪降汉，兵弱不能复自还，即引其众西，欲攻定右地。
又屠耆单于小弟本侍呼韩邪，亦亡之右地，收两兄余兵得数千人，自立为伊利目单于，道逢郅支，合战，郅支杀之，并其兵五万余人。
闻汉出兵、谷助呼韩邪，即遂留居右地。
自度力不能定匈奴，乃益西近乌孙，欲与并力，遣使见小昆弥乌就屠。
乌就屠见呼韩邪为汉所拥，郅支亡虏，欲攻之以称汉，乃杀郅支使，持头送都护在所，发八千骑迎郅支。
郅支见乌孙兵多，其使又不反，勒兵逢击乌孙，破之。
因北击乌揭，乌揭降。
发其兵西破坚昆，北降丁令，并三国。
数遣兵击乌孙，常胜之。
坚昆东去单于庭七千里，南去车师五千里，郅支留都之。
元帝初即位，呼韩邪单于复上书，言民众困乏。
translation: 
When the emperor ascended the hillside of Changping, Shao ordered Shanzi not to come to pay him a visit. The ministers of the left and right households were allowed to line up to see him. There were also tens of thousands of Ganhou, the leaders of the barbarian tribes, who lined up along the road to greet the emperor under the Wei Bridge.
When the emperor boarded the Wei Bridge, people shouted long live.
Chanyu lived in Guanyi and stayed there for more than a month. The emperor sent him back to his country.
Chanyu himself requested that he be allowed to stay and live under Guanglu Fortress so that he could defend the surrendered city of the Han Dynasty in case of emergency.
The Han Dynasty sent Changle Guardsman Gaochanghou Dong Zhong and Chariot and Cavalry Commander Han Chang to lead 16,000 cavalry, as well as thousands of troops from border prefectures and counties to escort Huhanxie Chanyu out of Jilusai in Shuofang City.
The emperor ordered Dong Zhong and others to stay there to protect Shanyu and help him attack the rebellious and disobedient people. He also transported 34,000 hu of grain and rice to the frontier for food to the Huns.
In this year, Zhizhi Shanyu also sent envoys to the Han Dynasty to pay tribute. The Han Dynasty treated the envoys very well.
The next year, both Chanyus sent envoys to the Han Dynasty to meet the emperor and contribute gifts. The Han Dynasty treated Huhanxie Chanyu's envoy more favorably.
The next year, Huhanxie Shanyu came to the Jin Dynasty again to see the emperor. The emperor continued to offer the same gifts and rewards as before, and added 110 sets of clothes, 9,000 pieces of brocade and silk, and 8,000 catties of thick silk and cotton.
Because there were already troops stationed in the Huns, no more troops were sent to escort them.
At first, Zhizhi Chanyu thought that Huhanxie Chanyu had surrendered to the Han Dynasty and his troops were weak and would not come back again, so he led his army to the west, hoping to attack and pacify Youdi.
In addition, Tuqi Chanyu's younger brother originally served Huhanxie Chanyu, but now he also fled to the right place, gathered the tribes of his two brothers, got several thousand people, and established himself as Yili Mu Chanyu. On the road, he met Zhizhi Chanyu, and the two sides fought. Zhizhi Chanyu defeated and killed Yilimu Chanyu, and annexed his army of more than 50,000 people.
Hearing that the Han Dynasty sent troops and food to help Huhanxie Shanyu, he simply stayed and settled in Youdi.
Zhizhi Shanyu considered that his own strength could not defeat the Xiongnu, so he went further west and approached Wusun. He wanted to unite with Wusun and sent an envoy to see Xiaokun Miwu and slaughter him.
When Wujiutu saw that Huhanye Chanyu was receiving courtesy and help from the Han Dynasty, while Zhizhi Chanyu was on the run, he wanted to attack Zhizhi and cater to the Han Dynasty, so he killed Zhizhi's envoy, sent his head to the Han Dynasty's Western Region Protector, and dispatched eight thousand cavalry to attack Zhizhi.
Chanyu Zhizhi saw that Wusun had many soldiers and his envoy failed to return, so he led his army to attack Wusun and defeated Wusun.
Taking the opportunity to attack Wujie to the north, Wujie surrendered.
He also sent his own troops to the west to conquer Jiankun and to the north to defeat Ding Ling, and annexed these three countries.
Zhizhi Chanyu sent troops to attack Wusun many times and often won.
Jiankun was seven thousand miles away from the king's court in the east and five thousand miles away from Cheshi in the south. The Zhi branch stayed there and established its capital there.
Emperor Yuan had just ascended the throne, and Huhanxie Shanyu wrote to the Emperor of Han again, saying that the people of Baoqu were very poor and impoverished.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
汉诏云中、五原郡转谷二万斛以给焉。
郅支单于自以道远，又怨汉拥护呼韩邪，遣使上书求侍子。
汉遣谷吉送之，郅支杀吉。
汉不知吉音问，而匈奴降者言闻瓯脱皆杀之。
呼韩邪单于使来，汉辄簿责之甚急。
明年，汉遣车骑都尉韩昌、光禄大夫张猛送呼韩邪单于侍子，求问吉等，因赦其罪，勿令自疑。
昌、猛见单于民众益盛，塞下禽兽尽，单于足以自卫，不畏郅支。
闻其大臣多劝单于北归者，恐北去后难约束，昌、猛即与为盟约曰： 自今以来，汉与匈奴合为一家，世世毋得相诈相攻。
有窃盗者，相报，行其诛，偿其物；有寇，发兵相助。
汉与匈奴敢先背约者，受天不祥。
令其世世子孙尽如盟。
昌、猛与单于及大臣俱登匈奴诺水东山，刑白马，单于以径路刀金留犁挠酒，以老上单于所破月氏王头为饮器者共饮血盟。
昌、猛还奏事，公卿议者以为： 单于保塞为藩，虽欲北去，犹不能为危害。
昌、猛擅以汉国世世子孙与夷狄诅盟，令单于得以恶言上告于天，羞国家，伤威重，不可得行。
宜遣使往告祠天，与解盟。
昌、猛奉使无状，罪至不道。
上薄其过，有诏昌、猛以赎论，勿解盟。
其后呼韩邪竟北归庭，人众稍稍归之，国中遂定。
translation: 
Xing issued an edict ordering Yunzhong County and Wuyuan County to transport 20,000 hu of grain for packaging.
Because his residence was far away from the road of the Han Dynasty, and he was very resentful of the Han Dynasty's support and help to Huhanxie Chanyu, Zhizhi Chanyu sent an envoy to Zhuimou to submit a letter, requesting to take back his son who had become a servant.
Xuansu sent Zhuzao to send him back, but Shanyu Zhuzhi killed Gu Ji.
The Han Dynasty did not know the news about Gu Ji. The Huns who came to surrender to the Han Dynasty reported that they had heard from the Huns in Ou Tuo that Gu Ji had been killed.
Hu Hanxie Chanyu sent envoys to the court, and the Han Dynasty was always very anxious to send documents asking for news about Gu Ji.
The next year, the Han Dynasty sent Han Chang, the captain of chariots and cavalry, and Zhang Meng, the Guanglu doctor, to escort Hu Hanxie Shanyu's son, who was serving as a servant, back to the Huns. They also inquired about Gu Ji and others, and announced a pardon for the Huns' sins, lest they worry that the Han Dynasty would attack them.
Han Chang and Zhang Meng saw that the Xiongnu tribe was prosperous and that all the animals under the fortress had been hunted down. The Chan Yu was strong enough to defend himself and was no longer afraid of Zhizhi.
Han and Zhang heard that many Xiongnu ministers advised the Shanyu to return to the north where they originally lived. They were worried that it would be difficult to govern the Xiongnu after they returned to the north. Han Chang and Zhang Meng made an alliance with the Shanyu, saying: From now on, the Han Dynasty and the Xiongnu are one family, and they are not allowed to deceive or attack each other from generation to generation.
When theft or robbery occurs, both parties must report to each other, punish the thief, and compensate for the lost property; when an enemy invades, they must send troops to rescue each other.
If either the Han Dynasty or the Xiongnu dared to betray the alliance first, they would be willing to accept the punishment of heaven.
Let their descendants and descendants suffer disaster just as the covenant says.
Han Chang, Zhang Meng, Hu Hanxie Chanyu and his ministers climbed to Nuoshuishu Mountain of the Xiongnu and killed the white horse. The Chanyu used a path knife and a golden plow to stir the wine mixed with the blood of the horse, and used the head of the Yuezhi King whom the old Shanyu had killed as a wine cup, and they drank the blood wine together as an alliance.
Han Chang and Zhang Meng reported this matter after they returned to the Han Dynasty. The ministers discussed the matter and said: "The Chanyu has promised us that we are willing to serve as a vassal to protect the frontier. Even if we want to return to the north, it will not pose a threat or hindrance to the Han Dynasty."
Han Chang and Zhang Meng acted without authorization and made an alliance with the Xiongnu on the future of the descendants of the Han Dynasty. This allowed the Chanyu to use evil words to tell heaven, humiliating the Han Dynasty and damaging the prestige of the country. This must not be done.
Envoys should be sent to appeal to Heaven and dissolve the former alliance with the Xiongnu.
Han Chang and Zhang Meng were ordered to go on a mission, which was not proper and their crimes were extremely treasonous.
The emperor alleviated their sins and issued an edict that Han Chang and Zhang Meng could be punished for their crimes but not terminate their alliance with the Huns.
Later, Huhanxie Chanyu finally returned to the court of Chanyu in the north. The Huns gradually surrendered to him, and the country settled down.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
郅支既杀使者，自知负汉，又闻呼韩邪益强，恐见袭击，欲远去。
会康居王数为乌孙所困，与诸翕侯计，以为匈奴大国，乌孙素服属之，今郅支单于困厄在外，可迎置东边，使合兵取乌孙以立之，长无匈奴忧矣。
即使使至坚昆通语郅支。
郅支素恐，又怨乌孙，闻康居计，大说，遂与相结，引兵而西。
康居亦遣贵人，橐它驴马数千匹，迎郅支。
郅支人众中寒道死，余财三千人到康居。
其后，都护甘延寿与副陈汤发兵即康居诛斩郅支，语在《延寿、汤传》。
郅支既诛，呼韩邪单于且喜且惧，上书言曰： 常愿谒见天子，诚以郅支在西方，恐其与乌孙俱来击臣，以故未得至汉。
今郅支已伏诛，愿入朝见。
竟宁元年，单于复入朝，礼赐如初，加衣服锦帛絮，皆倍于黄龙时。
单于自言愿婿汉氏以自亲。
元帝以后宫良家子王墙字昭君赐单于。
单于欢喜，上书愿保塞上谷以西至敦煌，传之无穷，请罢边备塞吏卒，以休天子人民。
天子令下有司议，议者皆以为便。
郎中侯应习边事，以为不可许。
上问状，应曰：
周、秦以来，匈奴暴桀，寇侵边境，汉兴，尤被其害。
臣闻北边塞至辽东，外有阴山，东西千余里，草木茂盛，多禽兽，本冒顿单于依阻其中，治作弓矢，来出为寇，是其苑囿也。
至孝武世，出师征伐，斥夺此地，攘之于幕北。
translation: 
Chanyu Zhizhi killed the envoy of the Han Dynasty, and he knew that he had failed the Han Dynasty. He also heard that Huhanxie was getting stronger, so he was worried about being attacked and wanted to move to a distant place.
It happened that King Kangju was besieged by the Wusun Kingdom many times at this time. He discussed with his Xihous that the Xiongnu was a powerful country and the Wusun Kingdom had always been subordinate to it. Now that Zhizhi Chanyu was living in exile, he could welcome him and live in Shubu. The two sides worked together to defeat Wusun and let Zhizhi Chanyu become king there. In this way, there would never be worries from the Huns.
So he sent an envoy to Jiankun to tell Chanyu Zhizhi these words.
Chanyu Zhizhi was often worried about being invaded by Huhanxie and resented Wusun. He was very happy when he heard King Kangju's plan, so he joined forces with Kangju and led the army to the west.
Kangju also sent nobles with thousands of camels, donkeys, and horses to meet Zhizhi.
Many of Zhizhi's tribe died of cold and starvation on the road, and finally only 3,000 people were left to reach Kangju.
Later, the governor Gan Yanshou and the deputy governor Chen Tang sent troops to Kangju to kill Zhizhi Shanyu. These are recorded in the biographies of Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang.
After Zhizhi Chanyu was killed, Huhanxie Chanyu was happy and scared, and wrote to the Emperor Xuan: I often hope to go to see His Majesty, but it is actually because Zhizhi Chanyu lives in the west, and I am worried that he will attack me with Mercer, so I cannot go to see the Emperor.
Now that Wai Mu has been convicted and killed, I hope that I can be allowed to come to the court to pay my respects.
In the first year of Jingning, Huhanxie Chanyu came to the Han Dynasty again. The Han Dynasty treated him with the same courtesy and rewards as before, and increased the rewards of clothes, brocade, silk, and thick silk and cotton, which were twice as much as in the Huanglong year.
Chanyu himself said that he would like to be the son-in-law of the Han Dynasty to get closer to the Han Dynasty.
Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty gave Shanyu Wang Qiangzi Zhaojun, a good woman who was a servant of the harem, as his wife.
The Chanyu was very happy and wrote to the emperor, saying that he was willing to protect the Han Dynasty frontier from Shanggu west to Dunhuang and pass it on forever. He asked the emperor to withdraw the officials and soldiers guarding the border fortress so that the emperor's subjects could rest and recuperate.
The emperor handed the matter over to the ministers for discussion, and the ministers in charge thought it was very convenient.
Langzhong Linghou should be familiar with the affairs of the frontier fortress and thought that he could not agree to the Huns like this.
Emperor Mo Yuan asked him why, and Hou Ying replied:
Since the Zhou and Qin Dynasties, the Xiongnu have been very violent and unruly, invading the frontiers. After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, they suffered particularly serious consequences.
I heard that our northern border fortress reaches all the way to Liaodong. Outside is the Yinshan Mountains, which is more than a thousand miles long from east to west, with lush vegetation and many animals. This place was originally the place where Maodun Shanyu relied on. He made bows and arrows here, trained his troops, and came in and out of Yinshan to harass us. Yinshan was the garden where they raised animals.
When Emperor Xiaowu arrived, he sent troops to attack and capture the area and drove them to the north of the desert.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
建塞徼，起亭隧，筑外城，设屯戍以守之，然后边境得用少安。
幕北地乎，少草木，多大沙，匈奴来寇，少所蔽隐，从塞以南，径深山谷，往来差难。
边长老言匈奴失阴山之后，过之未尝不哭也。
如罢备塞戍卒，示夷狄之大利，不可一也。
今圣德广被，天覆匈奴，匈奴得蒙全活之恩，稽首来臣。
夫夷狄之情，困则卑顺，强则骄逆，天性然也。
前以罢外城，省亭隧，今裁足以候望通烽火而已。
古者安不忘危，不可复罢，二也。
中国有礼义之教、刑罚之诛，愚民犹尚犯禁，又况单于，能必其众不犯约哉！
三也。自中国尚建关梁以制诸侯，所以绝臣下之凯欲也。
设塞徼，置屯戍，非独为匈奴而已，亦为诸属国降民，本故匈奴之人，恐其思旧逃亡，四也。
近西羌保塞，与汉人交通，吏民贪利，侵盗其畜产、妻子，以此怨恨，起而背畔，世世不绝。
今罢乘塞，则生嫚易分争之渐，五也。
往者从军多没不还者，子孙贫困，一旦亡出，从其亲威，六也。
又边人奴婢愁苦，欲亡者多，曰 闻匈奴中乐，无奈候望急何！
然时有亡出塞者，七也。
盗贼桀黠，群辈犯法，如其窘急，亡走北出，则不可制，八也。
起塞以来百有余年，非皆以土垣也，或因山岩石，木柴僵落，溪谷水门，稍稍平之，卒徒筑治，功费久远，不可胜计。臣恐议者不深虑其终始，欲以一切省徭戍，十年之外，百岁之内，卒有它变，障塞破坏，亭隧灭绝，当更发屯缮治，累世之功不可卒复，九也。
translation: 
Border fortresses were built, sentry roads were built, cities outside the fortress were built, troops were stationed there, and then the border settled down a little.
The terrain to the north of the desert is flat, with sparse vegetation and mostly sand and gravel. When the Xiongnu invaded, there was nothing to hide from. From the frontier fortress to the south, it is difficult to travel on the mountain roads.
The old people on the border said that since the Huns lost Yinshan, they never failed to cry every time they passed by.
Now if we withdraw the soldiers guarding the border fortress and show them such good favorable conditions, this is the first thing we cannot do.
Now, the emperor, you are so generous and generous, and your kindness is like heaven covering the Huns. The Huns came to kowtow and proclaim themselves vassals because of the help of the Han Dynasty.
The temperament of those Huns is to be humble and submissive when in danger, and to be arrogant and rebellious when they are strong. This is their nature.
Some time ago, the Han Dynasty had abolished the cities outside the wall and reduced the number of troops stationed at checkpoints and key roads. The number now was enough to wait and see the situation and send beacon communications.
The ancients said that we should be prepared for danger in times of peace, and the Han army cannot withdraw again. This is the second rule.
In the Central Plains, there is education in etiquette and justice, and there are punishments as a means of punishment, but some ignorant people still dare to break laws and prohibitions, not to mention the Chanyu, can he definitely prevent his tribes from violating the covenant?
This is the third article. From the beginning, China has attached great importance to building passes to control the princes. This is to cut off the unreasonable ideas of the ministers.
Building border fortresses and setting up garrison troops is not only to protect against the Huns, but also to protect those vassal states and surrenderers. Some of them were originally Huns. We are worried that they will miss their hometown and run away. This is the fourth article.
In modern times, the Western Qiang protected the Han Dynasty's frontiers and interacted with the Han Dynasty. Some officials and people, greedy for small profits, invaded and robbed other people's livestock, property, wives and children. This aroused the resentment of the Western Qiang people and rebelled against the Han Dynasty. This situation continued for generations.
Now that the border guard troops have been withdrawn, it will gradually lead to mutual insults and bullying. This is Article 5.
Many people who joined the army to fight against the Huns were lost there and never came back. Their descendants were very poor. Once they escaped, they followed their relatives and never came back. This is Article 6.
In addition, the slaves on the border fortress were very miserable, and many wanted to escape. I heard that the Huns were very good there, but the sentries were watching closely and there was nothing they could do.
However, there are still people who escape from the frontier fortress from time to time. This is Article 7.
Robbers and thieves are very cunning and often work in groups to commit crimes. If they are forced to escape from the northern pass, there will be no way to restrain and punish them. This is Article 8.
I am worried that the ministers who discussed this matter did not consider the whole situation carefully, and just wanted to reduce the number of slaves and guards based on the current situation and current calculations. Ten years later, within a hundred years, if there is an emergency, the city gates have been destroyed, and the checkpoints and roads have been obliterated, people will have to be dispatched to station and repair. Things accumulated over several generations cannot be repaired at once. This is Article 9.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
如罢戍卒、省候望，单于自以保塞守御，必深德汉，请求无已。小失其意，则不可测。
开夷狄之隙，亏中国之固，十也。
非所以永持至安，威制百蛮之长策也。
对奏，天子有诏： 勿议罢边塞事。
使车骑将军口谕单于曰： 单于上书愿罢北边吏士屯戍，子孙世世保塞。
单于乡慕礼义，所以为民计者甚厚，此长久之策也，朕甚嘉之。
中国四方皆有关梁障塞，非独以备塞外也，亦以防中国奸邪放纵，出为寇害，故明法度以专众心也。
敬谕单于之意，朕无疑焉。
为单于怪其不罢，故使大司马车骑将军嘉晓单于。
单于谢曰： 愚不知大计，天子幸使大臣告语，甚厚！
初，左伊秩訾为呼韩邪画计归汉，竟以安定。
其后或谗伊秩訾自伐其功，常鞅鞅，呼韩邪疑之。
左伊秩訾惧诛，将其众千余人降汉，汉以为关内侯，食邑三百户，令佩其王印绶。
及竟宁中，呼韩邪来朝，与伊穆訾相见，谢曰： 王为我计甚厚，令匈奴至今安宁，王之力也，德岂可忘！
我失王意，使王去不复顾留，皆我过也。
今欲白天子，请王归庭。
伊秩訾曰： 单于赖天命，自归于汉，得以安宁，单于神灵，天子之晁也，我安得力！
既已降汉，又复归匈奴，是两心也。
愿为单于侍使于汉，不敢听命。
单于固请不能得而归。
王昭君号宁胡阏氏，生一男伊屠智牙师，为右日逐王。
translation: 
If we withdraw our guarding soldiers and reduce the number of lookout posts, the Chanyu will think that he is defending the border fortress for the Han Dynasty and feels that he has made great contributions to the Han Dynasty, and unknown disasters will occur.
This will open the door for the Hungarians and weaken the stability of our country's defense force. This is Article 10 that cannot be done.
Therefore, this is not a superior strategy to keep the border fortress stable forever and control other minority countries.
After Hou Ying's reply was reported to the emperor, the emperor issued an edict saying: Stop discussing the lifting of border defenses.
He also sent the chariot and cavalry general Xu Jia to deliver an oral message to Shanyu, saying: Shanyu wrote a letter saying that he hoped that the Han Dynasty would withdraw the officials and soldiers guarding the northern frontier and let the Huns guard it for generations.
Shanyu advocates etiquette and justice. It is very good for you to think about the people. This is also a long-term solution for Xianxun and reconciliation. I appreciate it very much.
There are bridges on all four borders of our country. It is not only to prevent the outside of the fortress, but also to prevent the bandits and bad guys in our country from running rampant and running out of the border to harm the Huns. Therefore, the laws are stated to punish the public.
I have understood Shanyu's intention, there is no doubt about it.
I was worried that Shanyu would blame me for not withdrawing the border defense, so I sent General Xu Jia, the commander of the chariot and cavalry, to tell Shanyu the reason.
Shanyu thanked him and said: I don't understand the emperor's profound thoughts, but thanks to the emperor sending ministers to tell me, I am very grateful.
At first, King Zuo Yi Zhizi made suggestions for Huhanxie Chanyu and asked him to submit to the Han Dynasty. Later, the Huns finally settled down because of this.
Later, some people slandered Yi Zhizi for showing off his achievements and being often unhappy and dissatisfied. Hu Hanxie became suspicious of him.
King Zuo Yi Zhizi was afraid of being killed, so he led more than a thousand of his men to surrender to the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty made him the Marquis of Dingguannei, with a settlement of 300 households, and allowed him to wear the seal and ribbon of the original king.
During the Jingning period, Hu Hanxie Chanyu came to the Han Dynasty to pay homage to the Emperor of Han, and met King Zuoyi Zhizi. The Chanyu apologized and said: "My lord, you planned for me at the beginning. Your kindness and kindness have made us Xiongnu peaceful and peaceful to this day. These are all due to you, lord. How can I forget your kindness?"
It was my fault that I lost the favor of the prince and made the prince leave and no longer want to stay in the Huns. These are all my fault.
Now I want to talk to the emperor and ask you to return to the court of the Huns.
Yi Zhizi said: Shanyu relied on the arrangement of heaven to surrender to the Han Dynasty, and the Huns were at peace. Shanyu is a blessing from the emperor. What credit can I have!
Now that I have surrendered to the Han Dynasty, if I return to the Xiongnu, I will be half-hearted.
I am willing to be your envoy and stay in the Han Dynasty. If you ask me to go back, I will not obey your order.
The Chanyu made repeated requests, but in the end he could not change King Zuoyizhizi's mind, so he returned to the Huns.
Wang Zhaojun's title was Ninghu Pi, and he gave birth to a son named Yitu Zhiyaoshi, who was established as King Youri Zhu.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
呼韩邪立二十八年，建始二年死。
始，呼韩邪嬖左伊秩訾兄呼衍王女二人。
长女颛渠阏氏，生二子，长曰且莫车，次曰囊知牙斯。
少女为大阏氏，生四子，长曰雕陶莫皋，次曰且糜胥，皆长于且莫车，少子咸、乐二人，皆小子囊知牙斯。
又它阏氏子十余人。
颛渠阏氏贵，且莫车爱。
呼韩邪病且死，欲立且莫车，其母颛渠阏氏曰： 匈奴乱十余年，不绝如发，赖蒙汉力，故得复安。
今平定未久，人民创艾战斗，且莫车年少，百姓未附，恐复危国。
我与大阏氏一家共子，不如立雕陶莫皋。
大阏氏曰： 且莫车虽少，大臣共持国事，今舍贵立贱，后世必乱。
单于卒从颛渠阏氏计，立雕陶莫皋，约令传国与弟。
呼韩邪死，雕陶莫皋立，为复株累若鞮单于。
复株累若鞮单于立，遣子右致卢儿王醯谐屠奴侯入侍，以且糜胥为左贤王，且莫车为左谷蠡王，囊知牙斯为右贤王。
复株累单于复妻王昭君，生二女，长女云为须卜居次，小女为当于居次。
河平元年，单于遣右皋林王伊邪莫演等奉献朝正月。
既罢，遣使者送至蒲反。
伊邪莫演言： 欲降，即不受我，我自杀，终不敢还归。
使者以闻，下公卿议。议者或言宜如故事，受其降。
光禄大夫谷永、议郎杜钦以为： 汉兴，匈奴数为边害，故设金爵之赏以待降者。
今单于诎体称臣，列为北藩，遣使朝贺，无有二心，汉家接之，宜异于往时。
今既享单于聘贡之质，而更受其逋逃之臣，是贪一夫之得而失一国之心，拥有罪之臣而绝慕义之君也。
假令单于初立，欲委身中国，未知利害，私使伊邪莫演诈降以卜吉凶，受之亏德沮善，令单于自疏，不亲边吏；或者设为反间，欲因而生隙，受之适合其策，使得归曲而直责。
此诚边境安危之原，师旅动静之首，不可不详也。
不如勿受，以昭日月之信，抑诈谖之谋，怀附亲之心，便。
translation: 
Hu Hanxie Shanyu reigned for twenty-eight years and died in the second year of Jianshi.
At first, Huhanxie Chanyu doted on the two daughters of King Huyan, brother of Zuoyi Zhizi.
The eldest daughter is Zhuanquban, and she gave birth to two sons. The eldest son is named Qiemoche, and the second son is named Nangzhiyasi.
The second daughter of King Hu Xian was of the Dapi family, and she gave birth to four sons. The eldest son was called Diao Tao Mogao, and the second son was named Qie Mixu, both of whom were older than Qie Moche. The two younger sons were Xian and Le, both younger than Nangzhi Yasi.
There were also more than ten other sons born to Pi.
Zhuanquban's family was noble, and Moche was also favored by Shanyu.
Hu Hanxie Shanyu was about to die of illness and wanted Qie Moche to succeed him. His mother, Zhuan Qupi, said: The Xiongnu have been in chaos for more than ten years, and this situation cannot be cut off like hair. Fortunately, with the help of the Han Dynasty, the Xiongnu was able to stabilize. The country has not been peaceful for a long time, and many people have been killed and injured in wars.
Moreover, Mo Che was still young and the people failed to rally to him. If he were to take the throne, it would probably put the Xiongnu in danger again.
Zuo Tiya and I are sisters, and we have the same sons. It would be better to have Tao Mogao carved as a chanyu.
Tai Laoya said: Although Mu Moche is young and has ministers to help handle national affairs, if he abandons the noble now and supports the humble, I am afraid there will be trouble in the future.
Huhanxie Chanyu finally followed Zhuanquban's suggestion and sculpted Tao Mogao as Chanyu and made a covenant to pass the country to his younger brother in the future.
After the death of Hu Hanxie, Diao Tao Mogao came to the throne and was called Fuzhuanruo Qianchanyu.
After Fuzhu case Ruo Qian Chanyu came to the throne, he sent his son Youzhi to King Lu'er, Xiexie Tu Nuhou, to serve the emperor in He, and appointed the emperor. Mi Xu was appointed King of Zuo Xian, Danhuang Nuo was appointed King of Zuo Guli, and Nangzhi Yasi was appointed King of You Xian.
In the Fuzhu case, Shanyu also took Yudan Donkey as his wife and gave birth to two daughters. The eldest daughter Yun was the second, and the second daughter was the second.
In the first year of Heping, the Chanyu sent Yougao Lin Wang Yixiemoyan and others to the Han Dynasty to pay tribute and participate in the first month worship.
At the end of the dynasty, the Han Dynasty sent envoys to escort Yixiemoyan and others to Pufan.
Yixiemo made a speech: I want to surrender to the Han Dynasty. If you don't agree to this, I will commit suicide. Why won't I return to the Huns?
The envoys from the Han Dynasty came back to report, and the emperor handed over the matter to the ministers for discussion. Some people said that those who surrendered should be accepted as before.
Gu Yong and Yilang Duqin, Guanglu officials, believed that since the founding of the Han Dynasty, the Huns had repeatedly invaded and harmed the border areas, so we set up a generous reward of titles and money to attract the Huns who surrendered.
Now the Chanyu is very submissive, professing vassalage to the Han Dynasty, and is listed as a vassal state in the north. He sends envoys to the Han Dynasty to pay homage and congratulate him without any second thoughts. Therefore, the Han Dynasty should treat those who surrender differently from the past.
Now, since we have accepted the loyal invitations and tributes from Shan Yu, but also accepted their defected ministers, doing so is greedy for one person, but losing the loyalty of the people of the country, politely supporting the guilty ministers, and abandoning the monarch who admires benevolence and righteousness.
If the Shanyu has just ascended the throne and wants to get close to the Han Dynasty and come to pay homage to the Han Dynasty, but does not know what the attitude of the Han Dynasty is, whether it is good or bad for him, and secretly sends Yixie Moyan to pretend to surrender to see what the future will be like, if we accept the surrender, it will destroy the good deeds and be virtuous. Unfortunately, the Shanyu himself alienated us and did not get close to the officials on our frontier; or someone used rhetorical tactics to create discord between us. If we accepted the surrender, we would have fallen into his trap, allowing the Huns to accuse us of doing something wrong and blame us for being wrong.
This is actually the root cause of whether our border is safe or not. The starting point of whether the army is dispatched or not cannot be taken lightly.
It is better not to accept those who surrender, to show the Xiongnu our trust that is as unchangeable as the sun and the moon, to suppress the deceitful and evil plots, and to protect those who surrender to the Han Dynasty. This is a convenient strategy.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
对奏，天子从之。
遣中郎将王舜往问降状。
伊邪莫演曰： 我病狂妄言耳。
遣去。
归到，官位如故，不肯令见汉使。
明年，单于上书愿朝。河平四年正月，遂入朝，加赐锦绣缯帛二万匹，絮二万斤，它如竟宁时。
复株累单于立十岁，鸿嘉元年死。
弟且糜胥立，为搜谐若鞮单于。
搜谐单于立，遣子左祝都韩王朐留斯侯入侍，以且莫车为左贤王。
搜谐单于立八岁。元延元年，为朝二年发行，未入塞，病死。
弟且莫车立，为车牙若鞮单于。
车牙单于立，遣子右於涂仇掸王乌夷当入侍，以囊知牙斯为左贤王。
车牙单于立四岁，绥和元年死。
弟囊知牙斯立，为乌珠留若鞮单于。
乌珠留单于立，以第二阏氏子乐为左贤王，以第五阏氏子舆为右贤王，遣子右股奴王乌鞮牙斯入侍。汉遣中郎将夏侯藩、副校尉韩容使匈奴。
时帝舅大司马票骑将军王根领尚书事，或说根曰： 匈奴有斗入汉地，直张掖郡，生奇材木，箭竿就羽，如得之，于边甚饶，国家有广地之卖，将军显功，垂于无穷。
根为上言其利，上直欲从单于求之，为有不得，伤命损威。
根即但以上指晓藩，令从藩所说而求之。
藩至匈奴，以语次说单于曰： 窃见匈奴斗入汉地，直张掖郡。汉三都尉居塞上，士卒数百人塞苦，候望久劳。
translation: 
The emperor listened to their answers and followed their advice.
He also sent Wang Shun, the general of Zhonglang, to inquire about the situation of the surrendered people.
Ixiemo said: That's because I'm crazy and just talking nonsense.
The Han Dynasty sent him back.
After Yixe Moyan returned to the Huns, his official position remained the same as before, and he was not allowed to see the Han envoys again.
The next year, Fuzhuzong Shanyu wrote to the emperor, hoping to come to pay homage to Emperor Mo in the first month of the fourth year of Hehu. After that, he went to the court to pay homage. The Han Dynasty additionally rewarded him with 20,000 pieces of brocade silk and 20,000 catties of thick silk cotton. Other rewards were the same as during the Jingning period.
Yu Shanyu of Fuzhu reigned for ten years and died in the first year of Hongjia.
Passing the throne to his younger brother Ji Mi Xu, he was called Souxie Ruoqiandanzi.
After Souxie Chanyu came to the throne, he sent his son Quliu Sihou, King of Han of Zuozhudu, to serve the emperor of Han Dynasty, and appointed Qiemoche as King Zuoxian.
After eight years of Souxie Chanyu's reign, in the first year of Yuanyan, he went to the Han Dynasty to participate in the first dynasty in the first month of the second year. He set out from the Xiongnu and died of illness before he entered the frontier fortress.
His younger brother Qie Moche succeeded to the throne as Chanyu, making him Cheya Ruoqian Chanyu.
After Cheya Shanyu came to the throne, he sent his son Youyu Tuqiu Shan King Wuyi to serve the Han prince in the court. Appointed Nangzhi Yasi as King Zuoxian.
Cheya Shanyu reigned for four years and died in the first year of Suihe.
He passed the throne to his younger brother Nang Zhiyasi, who was called Wuzhu Liuruo Qian Chanyu.
After Wu Zhuliu Chanyu ascended the throne, he made his son Le, who was born to the second Ban family, the king of Zuoxian, and his son Yu, who was born to the fifth Ban family, to be the king of Youxian. He sent his son Wu Qianyasi, the slave king of Yougu, to serve the emperor of the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty sent Zhonglang General Xiahou Fan and deputy captain Han Rong as envoys to the Xiongnu.
At that time, the emperor's uncle, General Wang Gen, was in charge of the affairs of Shangshu Province. Someone persuaded Wang Gen: "The Xiongnu has a steep and tall mountain close to the Han Dynasty, facing Zhangye County. Strange wood grows on the mountain, and it is very suitable for making arrow poles with the addition of bird feathers." If we can get it, we can enrich the frontiers, the country can benefit from expanding the land, and you, the general, can show your merits and pass them on forever.
Wang Gen told the emperor about the benefits of asking for this mountain. The emperor also wanted to ask Shanyu for this mountain, but he was afraid that the Huns would not agree and would undermine the emperor's dignity.
Wang Gen told Ding Xia and Wu Fan of the emperor's intention, and asked him to request Shan Yu in his personal capacity.
When Xiahou Fan arrived at the Xiongnu, he waited for an opportunity to give advice to Shanyu and said: I saw that the Xiongtan was connected to a steep mountain and entered the Han Dynasty. Facing Zhangye County, there were three captains of the Han Dynasty leading hundreds of soldiers stationed on the tomb. It was very cold and hard, and they had to work hard for a long time on duty.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
单于宜上书献此地，直断阏之，省两都尉士卒数百人，以复天子厚恩，其报必大。
单于曰： 此天子诏语邪，将从使者所求也？
藩曰： 诏指也，然藩亦为单于画善计耳。
单于曰： 孝宣、孝元皇帝哀怜父呼韩邪单于，从长城以北匈奴有之。
此温偶駼王所居地也，未晓其形状所生，请遣使问之。
藩、容归汉。
后复使匈奴，至则求地。
单于曰： 父兄传五世，汉不求此地，至知独求，何也？
已问温偶駼王，匈奴西边诸侯作穹庐及车，皆仰此山材木，且先父地，不敢失也。
藩还，迁为太原太守。
单于遣使上书，以藩求地状闻。
诏报单于曰： 藩擅称诏从单于求地，法当死，更大赦二，今徙藩为济南太守，不令当匈奴。
明年，侍子死，归葬。
复遣子左於駼仇掸王稽留昆入侍。
至哀帝建平二年，乌孙庶子卑援疐翕侯人众入匈奴西界，寇盗牛畜，颇杀其民。
单于闻之，遣左大当户乌夷泠将五千骑击乌孙，杀数百八，略千余人，驱牛畜去。
卑援疐恐，遣子趋逯为质匈奴。
单于受，以状闻。
汉遣中郎将丁野林、副校尉公乘音使匈奴，责让单于，告令还归卑援疐质子。
单于受诏，遣归。
建平四年，单于上书愿朝五年。
时哀帝被疾，或言匈奴从上游来厌人，自黄龙、竟宁时，单于朝中国辄有大故。
上由是难之，以问公卿，亦以为虚费府帑，可且勿许。
单于使辞去，未发，黄门郎扬雄上书谏曰：
translation: 
Chanyu, you should write to Emperor Mo to donate this land and give it directly to the border officials. This will save two captains and hundreds of soldiers guarding the Han Dynasty, in order to repay Emperor Mo's kindness to the Xiongnu. The reward from the Han Dynasty must be very generous.
Shanyu asked: Is this an edict from the Emperor of the Han Dynasty, or is it a request from the envoy?
Xiahou Fan said: This is the emperor's will, but I just came up with a good idea for your sake.
The Chanyu said: Emperor Xiaoxuan and Emperor Xiaoyuan took pity on my father, Huhanxie Chanyu, and promised to return the area north of the Great Wall to the Xiongnu.
The place they want is where King Wen Outuo lives. I don't know what grows there or what it looks like. Please let me send an envoy to find out.
Xiahou Fan and Han Rong returned to the Han Dynasty.
Later, the two of them went on an envoy to the Xiongnu. When they arrived there, they asked the Chanyu for the place.
Shanyu said: According to legend, my father and brother have been there for five generations, and the Han Dynasty did not want this place. It was only when I became Shanyu that they asked for it. Why?
I have sent someone to ask King Wenqiuo that the vassal states in the west of the Xiongnu rely on the wood from this mountain to make tents and vehicles. Besides, it is a place left by the Huns ancestors, and I dare not lose it.
After Xiahou Fan returned, he was promoted to Taiyuan Prefect.
The Chanyu sent an envoy to the Han Dynasty to submit a letter to the emperor, telling the emperor about Xiahou Fan's request for land from the Xiongnu.
The Emperor of the Han Dynasty issued an edict to inform the Shanyu: Xiahou Fan requested land from the Shanyu without permission under the pretense of the emperor's edict, and should be executed according to law. After two amnesties, Xiahou Fan is now moved to the prefect of Jinan and will not be allowed to station in a place facing the Xiongnu.
The next year, Shan Yu's son who served in the court died and was buried with the Huns.
The Chanyu also sent his son Zuoyu, the king of Qiu Shan, Jiliu Kun to serve in the court.
In the second year of Emperor Ai's reign, the Wusun concubine Beiyuan Yinxihou's tribe invaded the western border of the Huns, robbed cattle, sheep and livestock, and killed many Huns.
After the Chanyu heard about it, he sent Wu Yiling, the leader of Zuo Danghu, to lead 5,000 cavalry to attack Wusun. He killed hundreds of people, plundered more than 1,000 people, and drove back the cattle and sheep.
Bei Yuanyi was frightened and sent his son Chulu to serve as a hostage to the Huns.
Shanyu accepted and reported the situation to the Han Dynasty.
The Han Dynasty sent Ding Yelin, the lieutenant general, and Wei Gongchengyin, the deputy captain, on an envoy to the Xiongnu to blame the Chanyu and tell him to send back Bei Yuanzhang's son who was a hostage.
Chanyu accepted the order and put the people back.
In the fourth year of Jianping, Shanzi wrote a letter hoping to participate in the imperial court in the first month of the fifth year.
Emperor Ai was ill at that time, and some ministers said that the Huns coming from the upper reaches of China would bring disaster. Since the Huanglong and Jingning years, every time the Chanyu came to China to worship, a relative of the emperor would die.
The emperor felt very embarrassed and asked the ministers for their opinions on this matter. The ministers also believed that allowing Shanyu to come to worship would only be a waste of money, so they could not agree to Shanyu's request for the time being.
Shan Yu's envoy said goodbye and wanted to go back to the Huns. Before he left, Yang Xiong, a man from Huangmen, wrote to the emperor to advise him:


Chunk 10: 
original: 
臣闻《六经》之治，贵于未乱；兵家之胜，贵于未战。
二者皆微，然而大事之本，不可不察也。
今单于上书求朝，国家不许而辞之，臣愚以为汉与匈奴从此隙矣。
本北地之狄，五帝所不能臣，三王所不能制，其不可使隙甚明。
臣不敢远称，请引秦以来明之。以秦始皇之强，蒙恬之威，带甲四十余万，然不敢窥西河，乃筑长城以界之。
会汉初兴，以高祖之威灵，三十万众困于平城，士或七日不食。
时奇谲之士石画之臣甚众，卒其所以脱者，世莫得而言也。
又高皇后尝忿匈奴，群臣庭议，樊哙请以十万众横行匈奴中，季布曰： 哙可斩也，妄阿顺指！
于是大臣权书遗之，然后匈奴之结解，中国之忧平。
及孝文时，匈奴侵暴北边，候骑至雍甘泉，京师大骇，发三将军屯细柳、棘门、霸上以备之，数月乃罢。
孝武即位，设马邑之权，欲诱匈奴，使韩安国将三十万众徼于便地，匈奴觉之而去，徒费财劳师，一虏不可得见，况单于之面乎！
其后深惟社稷之计，规恢万载之策，乃大兴师数十万，使卫青、霍去病操兵，前后十余年。
于是浮西河，绝大幕，破寘颜，袭王庭，穷极其地，追奔逐北，封狼居胥山，禅于姑衍，以临翰海，虏名王贵人以百数。
自是之后，匈奴震怖，益求和亲，然而未肯称臣也。
且夫前世岂乐倾无量之费，役无罪之人，快心于狼望之北哉？
以为不一劳者不久佚，不暂费者不永宁，是以忍百万之师以摧饿虎之喙，运府库之财填卢山之壑而不悔也。
至本始之初，匈奴有桀心，欲掠乌孙，侵公主，乃发五将之师十五万骑猎其南，而长罗侯以乌孙五万骑震其西，皆至质而还。
时鲜有所获，徒奋扬威武，明汉兵若雷风耳。
虽空行空反，尚诛两将军。
故北狄不服，中国未得高枕安寝也。
逮至元康、神爵之间，大化神明，鸿恩溥洽，而匈奴内乱，五单于争立，日逐、呼韩邪携国归化，扶伏称臣，然尚羁縻之，计不颛制。
自此之后，欲朝者不距，不欲者不强。
translation: 
I heard that the way of governing a country discussed in the "Six Classics" advocates governing before there is chaos; military strategists advocate defeating the enemy before there is a battle.
The truths of these two statements are very subtle, but the fundamental principles for handling national affairs cannot but be observed.
Now I have submitted a letter requesting to see His Majesty, but His Majesty refuses to allow it and refuses. I foolishly believe that the Han Dynasty and the Xiongnu will have conflicts from now on.
Originally, even the Five Emperors could not make those ethnic minorities in the north surrender, and the Three Kings could not effectively control them. Therefore, it was obvious that we could not cause rifts in our relationship.
I dare not go too far, so please allow me to quote examples from the Qin Dynasty to illustrate: Qin Shihuang's strength and Meng Tian's might commanded more than 400,000 armored men, but they did not dare to peek into the Xihe River and only built the Great Wall as a boundary.
Just when the Han Dynasty was just established, more than 300,000 troops were besieged in Pingcheng due to the sacred power of Emperor Gaozu, and some people went without food for seven days.
At that time, Gaozu was surrounded by many clever and fickle counselors and courtiers who were good at planning. However, Gaozu and others were able to escape in the end, but it was through a method that people don't want to say.
In addition, Empress Gao was also very angry with the Huns and summoned ministers to discuss it in the court. Fan Yan asked to lead 100,000 cavalry to attack and rampage the Huns. But Ji Bu said: Fan Sha should be killed for so foolishly flattering the queen!
So the ministers made adjustments and wrote replies according to the words of the letter. Then the conflict with the Xiongnu was resolved and the worries that threatened China were calmed down.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, the Huns invaded the northern border, and Tan Ma went as far as Yonggan Spring. The capital was shaken. The emperor sent three generals to lead their troops to station in Zouliu, Jimen, and Bashang respectively to guard against the Huns. The Huns retreated a few months later.
Emperor Xiaowu came to the throne and set up an ambush in Mayi to lure and annihilate the Xiongnu. He sent Han Anguo to lead an army of 300,000 to intercept at the border. The Xiongnu found out and retreated. The Han Dynasty wasted money and the army's hard work was in vain. Not a single Xiongnu was seen, let alone a Chanyu!
Later, Emperor Xiaowu thought deeply about the country's plans and planned grand and long-term plans, so he mobilized hundreds of thousands of troops in large numbers, led by Wei Qing and Huo Qubing, and fought for more than ten years.
So the Han army crossed the Xihe River, crossed the desert, broke through Zhenyan, attacked the court of Shan Yu, and reached the farthest point of the Huns. They chased and annihilated the fleeing enemies, set up altars to worship heaven on Langjuxu Mountain, and worshiped earth on Guyan Mountain. They returned only after reaching Hanhai, capturing hundreds of Xiongnu princes and nobles.
From then on, the Huns were shocked and frightened, and even more urgently demanded peace with the Han Dynasty. However, they still refused to surrender to the Han Dynasty.
Besides, was the previous emperor willing to spend countless amounts of money and food to let innocent people serve as soldiers in the army, and only then was he happy to attack the north of Langwang?
He believed that there would be no long-term peace and happiness if he did not work hard once, and he would not have long-term peace if he did not spend a lot of time and effort to defeat the Huns. Therefore, he had the heart to dispatch millions of troops to attack the Huns, risking the same danger as a hungry tiger pulling out its teeth; just like filling up the ravines of Mount Lu, he used the money and grain accumulated in the national treasury to fight without regrets.
In the early years of this century, the Xiongnu became unruly again! He wanted to plunder the Wusun Kingdom and endanger the Han Dynasty princess who was married to Nabu, so the Han Dynasty sent five generals and 150,000 cavalry to attack the southern Xiongnu, and Changluo Hou led 50,000 Wusun cavalry to attack the western Xiongnu.
At that time, the people and horses from all walks of life achieved very little. They just showed their strength and showed that the desert army was as powerful as thunder and wind.
Although he left empty-handed and returned empty-handed, he still injured two generals.
Therefore, if the Huns in the north do not surrender, China will never be able to sit back and relax.
During the reigns of Yuankang and Shenjue, the emperor was divine, the country was in great rule, and his benevolence was widespread. However, civil strife broke out among the Xiongnu, and five khanyus fought for the throne. King Chu, Huhanxie khanyu, led his troops to return to a civilized country, and bowed down to the emperor of the Han Dynasty. However, the emperor still only implemented a policy of win-over and softness, and believed that it was still inappropriate to treat them as ministers and slaves.
From then on, the Xiongnu Chanyu would not refuse anyone who wanted to come to worship, and would not force anyone who did not want to come.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
何者？
外国天性忿鸷，形容魁健，负力怙气，难化以善，易隶以恶，其强难诎，其和难得。
故未服之时，劳师远攻，倾国殚货，伏尸流血，破坚拔敌，如彼之难也；既服之后，尉荐抚循，交接赂遗，威仪俯仰，如此之备也。
往时尝屠大宛之城，蹈乌桓之垒，探姑缯之壁，藉荡姐之场，艾朝鲜之旃，拔两越之旗，近不过旬月之役，远不离二时之劳，固已犁其庭，扫其闾，郡县而置之，云彻席卷，后无余灾。
唯北狄为不然，真中国之坚敌也。三垂比之悬矣，前世重之慈甚，未易可轻也。
今单于归义，怀款诚之心，欲离其庭，陈见于前，此乃上世之遗策，神灵之所想望，国家虽费，不得已者也。
奈何距以来厌之辞，疏以无日之期，消往昔之恩，开将来之隙！
夫款而隙之，使有恨心，负前言，缘往辞，归怨于汉，因以自绝，终无北面之心，威之不可，谕之不能，焉得不为大忧乎！
夫明者视于无形，聪者听于无声，诚先于未然，即蒙恬、樊哙不复施，棘门、细柳不复备，马邑之策安所设，卫、霍之功何得用，五将之威安所震？
不然，一有隙之后，虽智者劳心于内，辩者毂击于外，犹不若未然之时也。
且往者图西域，制车师，置城郭都护三十六国，费岁以大万计者，岂为康居、乌孙能逾白龙堆而寇西边哉？
乃以制匈奴也。
夫百年劳之，一日失之，费十而爱一，臣窃为国不安也。
唯陛下少留意于未乱未战，以遏边萌之祸。
书奏，天子寤焉，召还匈奴使者，更报单于书而许之。
translation: 
Why?
The Huns were rebellious by nature, with tall bodies, and relied on their own strength. It was difficult to educate them with kindness, but they were easily accustomed to do evil. Their stubbornness was difficult to yield, but their docility was rare and valuable.
Therefore, when they did not surrender, they did not hesitate to send troops to distant places to attack them. The whole country used financial resources to support the war, killed and injured soldiers, captured the city, and defeated the enemy.
In the past, we have conquered the cities of Dayuan, set foot on the fortress of Wuhuan, visited the military fortress of Guzhen, trampled on Dangjie's place, cut off the military flags of Korea and Vietnam, and conquered these places. The time it took to conquer these places was no more than ten days and a half months, and no more than half a year.
Only the situation of the Xiongnu is different. They are really China's strong enemy. The situation on the other three borders is far worse than this. The previous emperor also attached great importance to it and cannot take it lightly.
Now the Shanyu Xiangmu Renyi has a sincere intention and wants to leave the royal court and go to the Emperor of Han to pay homage. This is a strategy passed down from the previous life, and it is what the late emperor's spirit hoped for. Although the country has to spend some money, it is also a last resort.
How can you refuse him with words that will bring disaster, alienate him with an indefinite period of time, cut off the kindness of the past, and create the beginning of future conflicts!
Now we treat him lightly, alienate him, make him hold a grudge, betray what you said before, and make Chanyu use the words of reconciliation we said in the past to complain about us. Therefore, he renounces the Han Dynasty. In the end, he no longer wants to surrender, cannot use violence to subjugate him, and cannot use kind words to make him understand. How can it not become a big worry for us!
People with sharp eyes can see things when they are almost shapeless, and people with sharp ears can hear things when there is almost no sound. If things can be predicted in advance before they happen, then Meng Tian and Fan Sha will no longer be useful, Thorny Gate and Xiliu will no longer be fortified. Where can a strategy like Ma Yi be laid? What use are the achievements of Wei Qing and Huo Qubing? Who would be shocked by the majesty of the five generals who went to Wusun?
Otherwise, once there is a conflict between the two countries, even if there are resourceful counselors working hard in the court and making suggestions; there are eloquent lobbyists running around outside all day long to lobby, and there are so many lobbyists that they often bump into each other, it is still better to prepare in advance before things happen.
Moreover, in the past, we sought the Western Region, controlled chariots, built cities, set up military guards, and commanded and protected the thirty-six countries. We spent millions of money a year. Is it because we were afraid that Kang Ju and Wu Sun would cross Bailongdui and invade the western border?
It was to subdue the Huns.
The achievements of a hundred years of hard work were all lost in one day. I spent ten coins but was stingy with one penny. I am really worried about the country.
I hope that your Majesty can give some thought to the strategy that should be adopted before things are chaotic and there is no war, so as to curb the disaster that is about to sprout on the border.
After reading the memorial, the emperor understood. He sent someone to recall the Huns envoy, replied to Shanyu's letter again, and allowed Shanyu to visit the court.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
赐雄帛五十匹，黄金十斤。
单于未发，会病，复遣使愿朝明年。
故事，单于朝，从名王以下及从者二百余人。
单于又上书言： 蒙天子神灵，人民盛壮，愿从五百人入朝，以明天子盛德。
上皆许之。
元寿二年，单于来朝，上以太岁厌胜所在，舍之上林苑蒲陶宫。
告之以加敬于单于，单于知之。
加赐衣三百七十袭，锦绣缯帛三万匹，絮三万斤，它如河平时。
既罢，遣中郎将韩况送单于。
单于出塞，到休屯井，北度车田卢水，道里回远。
况等乏食，单于乃给其粮，失期不还五十余日。
初，上遣稽留昆随单于去，到国，复遣稽留昆同母兄右大且方与妇入待。
还归，复遣且方同母兄左日逐王都与妇人侍。
是时，汉平帝幼，太皇太后称制，新都侯王莽秉政，欲说太后以威德至盛异于前，乃风单于令遣王昭君女须卜居次云入侍太后，所以常赐之甚厚。
会西域车师后王姑句、去胡来王唐兜皆怨恨都护校尉，将妻子人民亡降匈奴，语在《西域传》。
单于受置左谷蠡地，遣使上书言状曰： 臣谨已受。
诏遣中郎将韩隆、王昌、副校尉甄阜、侍中谒者帛敞、长水校尉王歙使匈奴，告单于曰： 西域内属，不当得受，今遣之。
单于曰： 孝宣、孝元皇帝哀怜，为作约束，自长城以南天子有之，长城以北单于有之。
有犯塞，辄以状闻；有降者，不得受。
臣知父呼韩邪单于蒙无量之恩，死遗言曰： 有从中国来降者，勿受，辄送至塞，以报天子厚恩。 此外国也，得受之。
使者曰： 匈奴骨肉相攻，国几绝，蒙中国大恩，危亡复续，妻子完安，累世相继，宜有以报厚恩。
单于叩头谢罪，执二虏还付使者。
诏使中郎将王萌待西域恶都奴界上逆受。
单于遣使送到国，因请其罪。
使者以闻，有诏不听，会西域诸国王斩以示之。
translation: 
Yang Xiong was rewarded with fifty pieces of silk and ten pounds of gold.
It happened that Chanyu fell ill before he set out, so he sent an envoy to say that he hoped to come to the court next year to see him.
According to the old rules in the past, when Chanyu came to worship, more than 200 people from the title of king to the following and his attendants were allowed to follow him into the court.
The Chanyu wrote to the emperor again, saying: Thanks to the blessing of the emperor's spirit, the Xiongnu people are strong and numerous. I hope that I can be allowed to bring 500 people to meet the emperor to show his great kindness.
The emperor all agreed to Shan Yu's request.
In the second year of Yuanshou, Shanyu came to the Han Dynasty to meet him. The emperor let Shanyu live in Putao Palace in Shanglinyuan because Tai Sui, who brought bad omens, and Weisheng, who could curse people, were there.
He also sent someone to inform Shanyu that this was a sign of extra respect for him, and Shanyu understood.
This time when Chanyu came to court, the emperor's additional rewards included 370 sets of clothes, 30,000 pieces of brocade silk, and 30,000 jins of thick silk and cotton. Other rewards were the same as during the Heping period.
After the first month of the dynasty, the Han Dynasty sent Zhonglang to escort Han Kuang back to the Xiongnu.
Shanyu left the frontier fortress, arrived at Xiutunjing, and crossed Chetianlu River to the north. The road was long and winding.
Han Kuang and others were short of food, so the Chanyu provided them with food. Han Kuang and others came back more than fifty days after the deadline.
At first, the emperor sent Jiliu Kun to follow Shan Yu back. After Shan Yu returned to the royal court, he sent Ji Liu Kun, his uncle You Daqifang and his wife to serve the emperor.
After returning from this pilgrimage, he sent his half-brother Zuo Yue, Daqifang on the right, to Zhuwangdu and his wife to serve in the court.
At this time, Emperor Ping of the Han Dynasty was young, the Empress Dowager came to the court to take the throne, and Wang Mang, the new capital lord, presided over the affairs of the court. Wang Mang wanted to please the Empress Dowager by praising her great virtue, so he asked Shanyu to tell Shan Yu from the side that he should send Wang Zhaojun's daughter Xubu Juciyun to the court to serve the Empress Dowager, and the rewards were very generous.
It happened that at this time, Wang Jugu, the queen of chariots in the Western Regions, and Tangdou, the king of Hu Lai, both resented the captain of the military guard. They led their wives and children to escape and surrendered to the Huns. The incident was recorded in "Biography of the Western Regions".
The Chanyu accepted the surrendered people, placed them in Zuoguli, and sent an envoy to the Han Dynasty to report the situation and said: I have accepted them all.
The imperial edict sent the lieutenant generals Han Long and Wang Chang, the deputy captain Zhen Fu, the minister's visitor Bo Chang, and the Changshui captain Wang She as envoys to the Xiongnu, telling the Shanyu: The Western Region is under the jurisdiction of the Han Dynasty, and the Shanyu should not accept surrendered people. I want you to release them.
Shanyu said: Emperor Xiaoxuan and Emperor Xiaoyuan took pity on us and made an agreement with us that the area south of the Great Wall would belong to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty, and the area north of the Great Wall would belong to Shanyu.
If someone invades the frontier fortress, they must inform each other of the situation; if someone comes to surrender, they must not accept it.
My father, Huhanxie Shanyu, received immeasurable kindness from the Han Dynasty. Before he died, he left a message: If there are people who surrender from the Central Plains, they are not allowed to accept it. They must be sent back to the frontier fortress and returned to the Han Dynasty to repay the kindness of Emperor Mo. But this time the people who surrendered are from countries other than the Great Wall, I can accept it.
The envoy of the Han Dynasty said: At the beginning, the Xiongnu's relatives attacked each other, and the country was almost completely reduced. Thanks to China's great kindness, it supported the Chanyu, so that the Xiongnu who were in danger could continue to survive, and their families, wives and children could be kept safe. From generation to generation, the Xiongnu should repay the great kindness to the Han Dynasty.
After hearing this, the Shan Yu kowtowed to the envoy to apologize, and captured the two princes who had surrendered and handed them over to the Han Dynasty envoy.
The Han Dynasty issued an edict to send Zhonglang General Wang Meng to the border of Badunu in the Western Regions to meet and accept the returned people.
Chanyu sent an envoy to escort him to the Han Dynasty and asked the emperor for forgiveness.
The envoy reported to the court, but the court issued an edict not to forgive them, and gathered the kings of the Western Regions to kill Gou Gu and Tang Dou to show their guilt.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
乃造设四条：中国人亡入匈奴者，乌孙亡降匈奴者，西域诸国佩中国印绶降匈奴者，乌桓降匈奴者，皆不得受。
遣中郎将王骏、王昌、副校尉甄阜、王寻使匈奴，班四条与单于，杂函封，付单于，令奉行，因收故宣帝所为约束封函还。
时，莽奏令中国不得有二名，因使使者以风单于，宜上书慕化，为一名，汉必加厚赏。
单于从之，上书言： 幸得备藩臣，窍乐太平圣制，臣故名囊知牙斯，今谨更名曰知。
莽大说，白太后，遣使者答谕，厚赏赐焉。
汉既班四条，后护乌桓使者告乌桓民，毋得复与匈奴皮布税。
匈奴以故事遣使者责乌桓税，匈奴人民妇女欲贾贩者皆随往焉。
乌桓距曰： 奉天子诏条，不当予匈奴税。
匈奴使怒，收乌桓酋豪，缚到悬之。
酋豪昆弟怒，共杀匈奴使及其官属，收略妇女马牛。
单于闻之，遣使发左贤王兵入乌桓责杀使者，因攻击之。
乌桓分散，或走上山，或东保塞。
匈奴颇杀人民，驱妇女弱小且千人去，置左地，告乌桓曰： 持马畜皮布来赎之。
乌桓见略者亲属二千余人持财畜往赎，匈奴受，留不遣。
王莽之篡位也，建国元年，遣五威将王骏率甄阜、王飒、陈饶、帛敞、丁业六人，多赍金帛，重遗单于，谕晓以受命代汉状，因易单于故印。
故印文曰 匈奴单于玺 ，莽更曰 新匈奴单于章 。
将率既至，授单于印绂，诏令上故印拔。
单于再拜受诏。
translation: 
Four stipulations were re-established: the Huns were not allowed to accept Chinese people who fled to the Huns, people who fled from the Wusun Kingdom and surrendered to the Huns, people who wore Chinese seals and ribbons from some Western Region countries appointed by the Han Dynasty and surrendered to the Huns, and people who surrendered to the Huns from the Wuhuan Kingdom.
The Han Dynasty sent Zhonglang General Wang Jun and Wang Chang, as well as deputy captains Zhen Fu and Wang Xun to envoy the Xiongnu. They promulgated four regulations to the Shanyu. The regulations and the seal were mixed in one letter and handed over to the Shanyu, asking him to abide by them. In this regard, they retracted the previous regulations made by Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty and the Xiongnu, and returned them in letters.
At that time, Wang Mang petitioned the emperor for approval and ordered the Chinese not to have two-character names. He also sent envoys to the Xiongnu to use pretexts to persuade the Chanyu that he should write to the court and pursue the civilization and enlightenment of the Han Dynasty. If he only used a one-character name, the Han Dynasty would definitely give him double rewards.
Chanyu listened to the envoy's advice and wrote to the court, saying: I am fortunate to be a foreign minister of the Han Dynasty, and I like the etiquette of the Taiping Shengming of the Han Dynasty. My original name was Nang Zhi Yasi, but now I am willing to change my name to Zhi.
Wang Mang was very happy and told Queen Mother Ya to send an envoy to answer the question, and the reward was very generous.
After the Han Dynasty promulgated the four treaties with the Xiongnu, the envoys protecting Wuhuan told the people of Wuhuan not to pay the leather and cloth tax to the Xiongnu anymore.
As usual, the Xiongnu sent envoys to Wuhuan to collect taxes. Some Xiongnu traders and women who wanted to do business went with the envoys.
The Wuhuan people refused and said: We obey the edict of Emperor Mo and are not allowed to pay taxes to the Xiongnu.
The Huns envoy was very angry and arrested the leader of Wuhuan and hanged him up.
The leader's brother was angry, and together they killed the Huns' envoys and the officials who came with them, and detained and confiscated the women who came to sell things and their cattle and horses.
When the Chanyu heard about it, he sent an envoy to order King Zuo Xian to send troops to invade Wuhuan, accusing them of killing the Xiongnu envoy and attacking them.
Wuhuan was dispersed, some ran up the mountain, and some went to Shubian to defend themselves with fortresses.
The Xiongnu killed many people and drove away nearly a thousand women, old people, and children from Wuhuan. They left them in the left area and sent people to tell Wuhuan: "You can redeem your people with horses, animal skins, and cloth."
Wuhuan sent more than 2,000 relatives of the robbed people to bring property and livestock to redeem the people. The Xiongnu accepted the property and detained the people.
Wang Mang usurped the territory of the Han Dynasty. In the first year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, he sent the five mighty generals Wang Jun and six men, Zhen Fu, Wang Sa, Chen Rao, Bo Chang, and Ding Ye, with a lot of gold, silver, and cloth to give to Shan Yu to inform Shan Yu that Wang Mang had been ordered by heaven to replace the Han Dynasty, and to exchange for Shan Yu's original seal.
The original seal text was Xiongnu Chanyuxi, but Wang Mang changed it to New Xiongnu Chanyuzhang.
After the generals arrived at the Xiongnu, they represented the imperial court and awarded the Chanyu the seal and ribbon, and Xuan Shao ordered the Chanyu to hand over the original seal and ribbon.
The Chanyu kowtowed twice and accepted the edict.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
译前，欲解取故印绂，单于举掖授之。
左姑夕侯苏从旁谓单于曰： 未见新印文，宜且勿与。
单于止，不肯与。
请使者坐穹庐，单于欲前为寿。五威将曰： 故印绂当以时上。 单于曰： 诺。
复举掖授译。
苏复曰： 未见印文，且勿与。
单于曰： 印文何由变更！
遂解故印绂奉上，将率受。
著新绂，不解视印，饮食至夜乃罢。
右率陈饶谓诸将率曰： 乡者姑夕侯疑印文，几令单于不与人。
如令视印，见其变改，必求故印，此非辞说所能距也。
既得而复失之，辱命莫大焉。
不如椎破故印，以绝祸根。
将率犹与，莫有应者。
饶，燕士，果悍，即引斧椎坏之。
明日，单于果遣右骨都侯当白将率曰： 汉赐单于印，言 玺 ，不言 章 ，又无 汉 字。
诸王已下乃有 汉 ，言 章 。
今即去 玺 加 新 ，与臣下无别。
愿得故印。
将率示以故印，谓曰： 新室顺天制作，故印随将率所自为破坏。
单于宜承天命，奉新室之制。
当还白，单于知已无可奈何，又多得赂遗，即遣弟右贤王舆奉马牛随将率入谢，因上书求故印。
将率还到左犁汗王咸所居地，见乌桓民多，以问咸。
咸具言状，将率曰： 前封四条，不得受乌桓降者，亟还之。
咸阳： 请密与单于相闻，得语，归之。
单于使咸报曰： 当从塞内还之邪，从塞外还之邪？
将率不敢颛决，以闻。
诏报，从塞外还之。
translation: 
The translator came forward and wanted to take off the original seal ribbon, but Shanyu raised his arm to let him take it off.
At this time, Zuogu Xihousu said to Shanyu: I haven't seen the new seal text yet, so I should not give it to him for the time being.
The Chanyu put down his arm and refused to pick it off.
The Chanyu asked the envoy to sit down in the felt tent. The Chanyu wanted to go forward and congratulate the emperor on his longevity. General Wang Jun of the Five Powers said: The original seal and ribbon should be handed over on time. Shanyu said: Okay.
He raised his arm again to let the interpreter interpret it.
Zuo Guxi Housu said again: "I haven't seen the seal text yet, so don't give it to him yet."
Shanyu replied: How could the seal change?
So he took off the original seal ribbon and presented it to the generals, and the generals accepted it.
Shanyu put on the new seal ribbon, but did not untie it to look at the seal. He kept eating and drinking until nightfall before leaving the table.
The right general Chen Rao said to the other generals: Just now, Zuo Guxihou had doubts about the seal and almost refused to let Shanyu hand over the old seal to us.
If he lets Shanyu see the seal and sees that the seal has changed, he will definitely come and ask for the original seal. In this case, we will not be able to refuse with words.
Having already obtained the old seal, and then losing it again, it is too disgraceful to the mission.
It would be better to destroy the original seal and cut off this source of trouble.
The generals were very hesitant and no one responded.
Chen Rao, a native of Yan, was brave and courageous, so he picked up an ax and chopped off the old seal.
The next day, Chanyu sent his right-hand Guduhou Dang to tell the generals: The Han Dynasty rewarded Shanyu with a seal, which uses the word "xi" instead of the word "seal", and there are no Chinese characters on the old seal.
Only the seals below the king have the characters "Han" and "Zhang".
The current seal has removed the word "Xi" and added the word "新", which is no different from the official seal.
Chanyu hopes to get the original seal.
The generals showed him the original seal and said to him: The new dynasty is governed by heaven and allows us generals to destroy the old seal at will.
Shanyu, you should comply with God's will and follow the etiquette of the Xinmang royal family.
Hou Yougudu went back and reported what happened to Shanyu. Shanyu knew that there was nothing he could do, and besides, he had obtained a lot of gold and silver, so he sent his younger brother Youxian Wangyu to accompany the new dynasty general with horses and oxen and other gifts to express his gratitude. He also wrote to the court asking for a seal like the original one.
The generals returned to the place where Zuoli Khan Wang Xian lived. They saw many Wuhuan people and asked Xian what was going on.
Xian talked about what happened in detail, and the generals said: "We have made four agreements with the Xiongnu before, and the Xiongnu are not allowed to accept the people who surrendered from Wuhuan, and they must be returned as soon as possible."
King Zuoli Khan said: Please let me speak to Shanyu secretly and get a reply.
Just let them go back. Later, the Chanyu sent King Zuoli Khan to report: Should these surrendered people be returned from within the fortress, or from outside the fortress?
The generals did not dare to make decisions without authorization and reported the matter to the court.
The imperial court issued an edict to return them from outside the Great Wall.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
单于始用夏侯藩求地有距汉语，后以求税乌桓不得，因寇略其人民，衅由是生，重以印文改易，故怨恨。
乃遣右大且渠蒲呼卢訾等十余人将兵众万骑，以护送乌桓为名，勒兵朔方塞下。
朔方太守以闻。
明年，西域车师后王须置离谋降匈奴，都护但钦诛斩之。
置离兄狐兰支将人众二千余人，驱畜产，举国亡降匈奴，单于受之。
狐兰支与匈奴共入寇，击车师，杀后成长，伤都护司马，复还入匈奴。
时，戊己校尉史陈良、终带、司马丞韩玄、右曲候任商等见西域颇背叛，闻匈奴欲大侵，恐并死，即谋劫略吏卒数百人，共杀戊己校尉刀护，遣人与匈奴南犁汗王南将军相闻。
匈奴南将军二千骑入西域迎良等，良等尽胁略戊己校尉吏士男女二千余人入匈奴。
玄、商留南将军所，良、带径至单于庭，人众别置零吾水上田居。
单于号良、带曰乌桓都将军，留居单于所，数呼与饮食。
西域都护但钦上书言匈奴南将军右伊秩訾将人众冠击诸国。
莽于是大分匈奴为十五单于，遣中郎将蔺苞、副校尉戴级将兵万骑，多赍珍宝至云中塞下，招诱呼韩邪单于诸子，欲以次拜之。
使译出塞诱呼右犁汗王咸、咸子登、助三人，至则胁拜咸为孝单于，赐安车鼓车各一，黄金千手，杂缯千匹，戏戟十；拜助为顺单于，赐黄金五百斤；传送助、登长安。
莽封苞为宣威公，拜为虎牙将军；封级为扬威公，拜为虎贲将军。
单于闻之，怒曰： 先单于受汉宣帝恩，不可负他。
今天子非宣帝子孙，何以得立？
遣左骨都侯、右伊秩訾王呼卢訾及左贤王乐将兵入云中益寿塞，大杀吏民。
是岁，建国三年也。
是后，单于历告左右部都尉、诸边王，入塞寇盗，大辈万余，中辈数千，少者数百，杀雁门、朔方太守、都尉，略吏民畜产不可胜数，缘边虚耗。
莽新即位，怙府库之富欲立威，乃拜十二部将率，发郡国勇士，武库精兵，各有所屯守，转委输于边。
议满三十万众，贲三百日粮，同时十道并出，穷追匈奴，内之于丁令，因分其地，立呼韩邪十五子。
莽将严尤谏曰：臣闻匈奴为害，所从来久矣，未闻上世有必征之者也。
后世三家周、秦、汉征之，然皆未有得上策者也。
周得中策，汉得下策，秦无策焉。
当周宣王时，猃允内侵，至于泾阳，命将征之，尽境而还。
其视戎狄之侵，譬犹蚊虻之螫，驱之而已。
translation: 
At first, the Chanyu refused because Xiahou Fan asked for land from the Xiongnu. Later, because he failed to collect taxes from Wuhuan, he invaded and plundered Wuhuan's tribes. This conflict arose, and the seal was changed, so he was very resentful.
So he sent a dozen people including You Da Qie Qu Pu Hulu Zi to lead 10,000 cavalry to garrison under the Shuofang border fortress in the name of escorting Wuhuan's prisoners.
The prefect Shuofang reported the matter to the court.
In the second year, King Xuzhili, the queen of Cheshi in the Western Regions, attempted to surrender to the Huns, but Danqin, the governor of the Western Region, had him executed.
Zhili's elder brother Hulanzhi led more than 2,000 people, driving livestock, and the whole country fled and surrendered to the Huns, and the Chanyu accepted it.
The Hulanzhi invaded with the Xiongnu, attacked the chariot division, killed the leader of Houcheng, killed and wounded the guard Sima, and then returned to the Xiongnu.
At that time, Wuji Colonel Shi Chenliang, Zhongdai, Sima Cheng Han Xuan, Youquhou Renshang and others saw that many people in the Western Regions had betrayed the Central Plains, and heard that the Huns were about to invade the Central Plains. They were worried that they would be killed together, so they discussed together and hijacked hundreds of officials and soldiers.
General Nan of the Xiongnu led 2,000 cavalry into the Western Region to meet Chen Liang and others. Chen Liang and others hijacked more than 2,000 men and women, officials and soldiers under Wuji Xiaowei, and brought them to the Xiongnu.
Han Xuan and Ren Shang stayed with General Nan, while Chen Liang and Zhen took them directly to the court of Shan Yu. The people they brought were placed at the Lingwu River to farm.
The Chanyu gave them the names Chen Liang and Zhongdai, and called them General Wuhuandu. He kept them in the court of the Chanyu and invited them to drink and dine many times.
Danqin, the Protector of the Western Regions, wrote to the court, reporting that the Xiongnu's Southern General Youyi Zhizi led his troops to invade the Western Regions.
So Wang Mang greatly increased the number of Xiongnu chanyu titles to fifteen, and sent 10,000 cavalry led by Zhonglang General Lin Bao and deputy captain Dai Jie to the border fortress of Yunzhong County with many pearls and treasures. He lured several sons of Huhanxie Shanyu by seduction, hoping to make them chanyus one by one.
He sent an interpreter outside the border fortress to lure King Xian of Youli Khan, his sons Deng and Zhu, and three others. After arriving, he was forced to accept the title of Xiao Chanyu, and was rewarded with an An chariot and a drum chariot, one thousand catties of gold, one thousand pieces of miscellaneous silk, and ten halberds with flags.
Wang Mang also granted Lin Bao the title of Duke Xuanwei and appointed him General Huya; he conferred the rank of Dai to Duke Yangwei and appointed him General Huben.
When the Chanyu heard these things, he said angrily: "The Chanyu has been favored by Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty, but he cannot bear the responsibility to the Han Dynasty."
The current emperor is not a descendant of Emperor Xuan, how can he become the emperor?
He sent Zuo Guduhou, Youyi Zhizi King Huluzi and Zuoxian Wangle to lead troops to invade Yishousai in Yunzhong County and killed many officials and people.
This year is the third year since the founding of the People's Republic of China.
After that, the Chanyu repeatedly sent the left and right captains and the feudal kings on the frontier to invade the frontier to kill and plunder. The large-scale ones had more than 10,000 people, the medium-scale ones had thousands of people, and the smaller ones had hundreds of people. They killed the prefects and captains of Yanmen and Shuofang, and plundered countless officials, people, livestock and property, so the frontier fortress was greatly weakened.
Wang Mang had just become emperor and wanted to rely on the wealth of the national treasury to establish his own prestige, so he appointed twelve generals, dispatched warriors from various counties and counties, took out the sophisticated weapons from the arsenal, and ordered them to station in one side and gradually transport them to the frontier.
The plan was to wait for the number of 300,000 people, bring enough food for three hundred days, attack in ten groups at the same time, chase and beat the Xiongnu, drive them to Dingling, divide the territory of the Xiongnu, and establish Hu Hanxie's fifteen sons as chanyus.
Wang Mang's general Yan You advised him and said: I heard that the Huns were harming the Central Plains. It has been a long time since the beginning. I have never heard that the previous generation must go to conquer.
Later Zhou, Qin, and Mo dynasties went on conquests, but none of them could be said to have superior strategies.
It can be said that the Zhou Dynasty had the right strategy, the Han Dynasty had the wrong strategy, and the Qin Dynasty had no strategy at all.
During the reign of King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty, Mi Yun invaded the interior and reached Jingyang. King Xuan of Zhou sent generals to conquer the area and returned after reaching the border.
The Zhou Dynasty treated the invasion of Rong and Di as if they were biting mosquitoes and flies, they just drove them away.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
故天下称明，是为中策。
汉武帝选将练兵，约贲轻粮，深入远戍，虽有克获之功，胡辄报之，兵连祸结三十余年，中国罢耗，匈奴亦创艾，而天下称武，是为下策。
秦始皇不忍小耻而轻民力，筑长城之固，延袤万里，转输之行，起于负海，疆境既完，中国内竭，以丧社稷，是为无策。
今天下遭阳九之厄，比年饥馑，西北边犹甚。
发三十万众，具三百日粮，东援海代，南取江淮，然后乃备。
计其道里，一年尚未集合，兵先至者聚居暴露，师老械弊，势不可用，此一难也。
边既空虚，不能奉军粮，内调郡国，不相及属，此二难也。
计一人三百日食，用糒十八斛，非牛力不能胜；牛又当自赍食，加二十斛，重矣。
胡地沙卤，多乏水草，以往事揆之，军出未满百日，牛必物故且尽，余粮尚多，人不能负，此三难也。
胡地秋冬甚寒，春夏甚风，多赍釜鍑薪炭，重不可胜，食糒饮水，以历四时，师有疾疫之忧，是故前世伐胡，不过百日，非不欲久，势力不能，此四难也。
辎重自随，则轻锐者少，不得疾行，虏徐遁逃，势不能及，幸而逢虏，又累辎重，如遇险阻，衔尾相随，虏要遮前后，危殆不测，此五难也。
大用民力，功不可必立，臣伏忧之。
translation: 
Therefore, everyone in the world praises this as a wise move and a middle policy.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty selected generals, trained soldiers, made an appointment to bring less food, went deep into the Huns with light equipment, and drove the Huns far away. Although they won and captured many prisoners, the Huns always retaliated. The wars continued for more than thirty years. As a result, China was exhausted and wasted, and the Huns were deeply wounded. People in the world called this bravery, which was a bad idea.
Qin Shihuang was unwilling to endure the small humiliation of the Xiongnu invasion, so he easily requisitioned the people and built a strong Great Wall that stretched for tens of thousands of miles. He transported bricks and stones and built it from the seaside. After the Great Wall was built along the border, China's national power was also exhausted, and as a result, the country was lost. This was helpless.
Nowadays, various parts of the Central Plains are suffering from severe drought and famine has occurred for several years, and the northwest border has been particularly severely affected.
If we dispatch 300,000 troops, prepare enough food and grass for three hundred days, and search eastward for the land of Haidai and southward for the land of Jianghuai, then we will be complete.
Consider the distance we have to travel. If we cannot gather together within a year, the troops who arrived first will gather together and be exposed to the wild. The troops will be exhausted and their guns will be damaged. They will definitely have no combat effectiveness and cannot be used again. This is the first difficulty.
The border is already very empty and cannot supply military rations. Inland counties and counties have closed the country to collect and cannot supply. This is the second difficulty.
Calculating the amount of food required, a person needs eighteen bushels of food for three hundred days, which cannot be carried without cattle; cattle also need to eat grass and have to carry it, and twenty bushels of grain must be added, which is already very heavy.
The Xiongnu area is mostly sandy and lacks water and grass. Based on past experience, it can be speculated that within a hundred days of the army's deployment, all the cattle will be almost dead. There will still be a lot of food left, and the people will not be able to carry it. This is the third difficulty.
The Xiongnu was very cold in autumn and winter, and often had strong winds in spring and summer. The only way to cope with it was to carry a large pot of charcoal, but it was too heavy to bear. Eating dry food and drinking plain water to survive the four seasons of the year, the army was in danger of plague, so the previous generations attacked the Xiongnu for only a hundred days, not because they did not want to extend the time, but because the situation did not allow it and the strength was not enough. This is the fourth difficulty.
The food and baggage accompanying the army will inevitably reduce the number of light troops and they cannot march quickly. The Xiongnu will be able to escape slowly and we will definitely not be able to catch up with them. Even if we are lucky enough to encounter the Huns, we will be burdened by the baggage and food. If you encounter a narrow and dangerous path, you have to march with the horse's head connected to its tail to lengthen the team. If the Huns intercept us and attack us from behind, the danger is really unpredictable. This is the fifth difficulty.
I am very worried about the massive requisition of people and the military merit of defeating the Xiongnu, but I may not be able to obtain it.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
今既发兵，宜纵先至者，令臣尤等深入霆击，且以创艾胡虏。
莽不听尤言，转兵谷如故，天下骚动。
咸既受莽孝单于之号，驰出塞归庭，具以见胁状白单于。
单于更以为于粟置支侯，匈侯贱官也。
后助病死，莽以登代助为顺单于。
厌难将军陈钦、震狄将军王巡屯云中葛邪塞。
是时，匈奴数为边寇，杀将率吏士，略人民，驱畜产去甚众。
捕得虏生口验问，皆曰孝单于咸子角数为寇。
两将以闻。
四年，莽会诸蛮夷，斩咸子登于长安市。
初，北边自宣帝以来，数世不见烟火之警，人民炽盛，牛马布野。及莽挠乱匈奴，与之构难，边民死亡系获，又十二部兵久屯而不出，吏士罢弊，数年之间，北边虚空，野有暴骨矣。
乌珠留单于立二十一岁，建国五年死。
匈奴用事大臣右骨都侯须卜当，即王昭君女伊墨居次云之婿也。
云常欲与中国和亲，又素与咸厚善，见咸前后为莽所拜，故遂越舆而立咸为乌累若鞮单于。
乌累单于咸立，以弟舆为左谷蠡王。
乌珠留单于子苏屠胡本为左贤王，以弟屠耆阏氏子卢浑为右贤王。
乌珠留单于在时，左贤王数死，以为其号不祥，更易命左贤王曰 护于 。护于之尊最贵，次当为单于，故乌珠留单于授其长子以为护于，欲传以国。
咸怨乌珠留单于贬贱己号，不欲传国，及立，贬护于为左屠耆王。
云、当遂劝咸和亲。
天凤元年，云、当遣人之西河虏猛制虏塞下，告塞吏曰欲见和亲侯。
和亲侯王歙者，王昭君兄子也。
translation: 
Now that the imperial court has dispatched troops, it is time to let the troops that arrived first attack. Let me and other generals lead the troops deep into the Xiongnu and attack them quickly, causing losses and trauma to the Xiongnu.
Wang Mang did not listen to Yan You's advice and continued to mobilize troops and transport food as he had done at the beginning. As a result, the country was in chaos.
After Wang Xian, Youli Khan of the Xiongnu, accepted the title of Wang Mangxiao Chanyu, he ran out of the frontier and returned to the royal court, and carefully told the Chanyu about the situation of being coerced.
The Chanyu changed his official position and made him the Marquis of Yusu, which was a lowly official position for the Xiongnu.
Later, Xian's son Zhu died of illness, and Wang Mang asked his other son Deng to replace Zhu as king of Shundan.
General Chen Qin, who dislikes trouble, and Wang Xun, general Zhendi, are stationed at Gexie Sai in Yunzhong County.
At this time, the Xiongnu invaded the border fortress many times, killing generals and soldiers, plundering the people and driving away many livestock.
Later, the Xiongnu prisoners were captured and interrogated, and they all said that Xiao Shanyu Xian's son Jiao led his army to invade many times.
Generals Chen and Wang reported the situation to the court.
In the fourth year after the founding of the People's Republic of China, Wang Mang gathered the leaders of various ethnic minorities and beheaded Xian's son Deng in Chang'an City.
At that time, the northern border had not seen beacon fires or wars for several generations since Emperor Xuan. The people were prosperous and cattle and horses were everywhere. When Wang Mang stirred up the Huns and made enemies with them, the people on the border died or were taken captive. In addition, the twelve soldiers and horses recruited by Wang Mang had been stationed here for a long time without attacking, and the soldiers were tired. Within a few years, the northern border became empty, and exposed bones could be seen in the fields.
Wu Zhuliu Shanyu reigned for twenty-one years and died in the fifth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China.
The ruling minister of the Xiongnu, Hou Xubutang, the right bone capital, was the son-in-law of Wang Zhaojun's daughter Yimo Juciyun.
Yun often hoped to make peace with China, and usually had a good relationship with Xian. When she saw that Xian was appointed by Wang Mang, she went beyond her father's will and made Xian the king of Wureruo Qiandan.
After Wulei Chanyu Xian ascended the throne, he made his younger brother Yu the king of Zuoguli.
Wu Zhuliu's son Sutuhu was originally the Xianwang of the left, and made his younger brother Luhun, the son of Tuqi Pishi, the Xianwang of the right.
When Wuzhuliu Chanyu was alive, the person who was named Zuoxianwang died many times, so he thought this title was unlucky, so he changed the title of Zuoxianwang to "Huyu": "Huyu" is the most noble official position of the Xiongnu, and he will be a Shanyu in the future, so Wuzhuliu Shanyu gave the title of "Huyu" to his eldest son, hoping to pass on the country to him.
Xian resented that Wu Zhuliu Shanyu had belittled his title and did not want to pass on the country to him. When Xian became a Chanyu, he demoted Huyu to the title of King Zuotuqi.
Yun and Xubudang persuaded Xian to make peace with the Central Plains.
In the first year of Tianfeng's reign, Yun and Xubudang sent people to the Zhilu Fortress in Humeng County, Xihe County, and told the officials on the pass that they wanted to meet He Qinhou.
He Qinhou Wang She is the son of Wang Zhaojun's brother.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
中部都尉以闻。
莽遣歙、歙弟骑都尉展德侯飒使匈奴，贺单于初立，赐黄金衣被缯帛，绐言侍子登在，因购求陈良、终带等。
单于尽收四人及手杀校尉刀护贼芝音妻子以下二十七人，皆械槛付使者，遣厨唯姑夕王富等四十人送歙、飒。
莽作焚如之刑，烧杀陈良等，罢诸将率屯兵，但置游击都尉。
单于贪莽赂遗，帮外不失汉故事，然内利寇掠。
又使还，知子登前死，怨恨，寇虏从左地入，不绝。
使者问单于，辄曰： 乌桓与匈奴无状黠民共为寇入塞，譬如中国有盗贼耳！
咸初立持国，威信尚浅，尽力禁止，不敢有二心。
天凤二年五月，莽复遣歙与五威将王咸率伏黯、丁业等六人，使送右厨唯姑夕王，因奉归前所斩侍子登及诸贵人从者丧，皆载以常车。
至塞下，单于遣云、当子男大且渠奢等至塞迎。
咸等至，多遗单于金珍，因谕说改其号，号匈奴曰 恭奴 ，单于曰 善于 ，赐印绶。
封骨都侯当为后安公，当子男奢为后安侯。
单于贪莽金币，故曲听之，然寇盗如故。
咸、歙又以陈良等购金付云、当，令自差与之。
十二月，还入塞，莽大喜，赐歙钱二百万，悉封黯等。
单于咸立五岁，天凤五年死，弟左贤王舆立，为呼都而尸道皋若鞮单于。
translation: 
The central captain reported to the court.
Wang Mang then sent Wang She and his younger brother Qi Duwei Zhan Dehou Wang Sa as envoys to the Xiongnu to congratulate Shan Yu on his new ascendancy and reward him with gold, clothes, quilts, and silk. They deceived Shan Yu into saying that his son Deng, who was serving as a servant, was still in the Central Plains, and gave him money to demand that Shan Yu hand over Chen Liang, Zhong Dai and others to the court.
The Chanyu captured all four people including Chen Liang, as well as twenty-seven people including the wife and children of Zhiyin, the thief who killed Xiaowei Daohu. They were all tied up and locked in prison carts and handed over to the envoys. He also sent forty people including Cook Wei Guxi and Wang Fu to escort Wang She and Wang Sa back to the court.
Wang Mang carried out the Burning Punishment, burned and killed Chen Liang and others, and withdrew the generals and soldiers stationed at the border fortress to their original positions, leaving only guerrilla captains.
Chanyu was greedy for the treasures sent by Wang Mang, so outwardly he still followed the old routine of the Han Dynasty, but secretly he liked to invade and plunder border fortresses to gain profits.
And after the envoy returned to the Xiongnu, Shanyu knew that his son had been killed by Wang Mang before he ascended. He was very resentful, so he sent troops to invade from the left and plundered endlessly.
Wang Mang's envoys questioned Chanyu, and the Huns always replied: Wuhuan and the cunning people of the Xiongnu ganged up to invade the frontier, just like there are thieves in China!
Shan Yuxian had just ascended the throne and presided over the affairs of the country, and his prestige was not high yet. He tried his best to prohibit such things and did not dare to have second thoughts.
In May of the second year of Tianfeng, Wang Mang sent Wang She and Wuwei General Wang Xian, together with Fu An, Ding Ye and six others, to escort King Wei Guxi, the right cook, back to the Huns. At the same time, the coffins of Shanyu's son Deng, who had been killed before, and the coffins of the murdered Huns nobles who followed Deng were returned to the Xiongnu. They were all loaded in regular carts.
When they arrived at the fortress, Shanyu sent Yun, Xudang's son Daqie Qushe and others to the border fortress to greet him.
After Wang Xian and others arrived at the royal court, they gave Chanyu many gold, treasures and pearls, and persuaded Chanyu to change the title of the country, changing the name of Xiongnu to "Gongnu", changing the name of Chanyu to "good at", and rewarded him with a seal ribbon.
Xubudang, the Marquis of the Bone Capital, was granted the title of Hou'an Gong, and Xubutang's son She was granted the title of Hou'anhou.
The Chanyu was greedy for Wang Mang's gold, silver and jewels, so he reluctantly obeyed, but continued to invade and plunder as before.
Wang Xian and Wang She also gave the money that the court had purchased from Chen Liang and others to Yun and Xubudang, and asked them to give it to their subordinates respectively.
In December, Wang Xian and others returned to the fortress. Wang Mang was very happy and rewarded Wang She with two million yuan. Fu An and others were all promoted to official positions.
Wulei Ruoqian Chanyu reigned for five years, and Tianfeng died in the fifth year. His younger brother Zuoxian Wangyu succeeded to the throne, and was called Hudu and Shidao Gaoruo Qianchanyu.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
匈奴谓孝曰 若鞮自呼韩邪后，与汉亲密，见汉谥帝为 孝 ，慕之，故皆为 若鞮 。
呼都而尸单于舆既立，贪利赏赐，遣大且渠奢与云女弟当于居次子醯椟王俱奉献至长安。
莽遣和亲侯歙与奢等俱至制虏塞下，与云、当会，因以兵迫胁，将至长安。
云、当小男从塞下得脱，归匈奴。
当至长安，莽拜为须卜单于，欲出大兵以辅立之。
兵调度亦不合，而匈奴愈怒，并入北边，北边由是坏败。
会当病死，莽以其庶女陆逮任妻后安公奢，所以尊宠之甚厚，终为欲出兵立之者。
会汉兵诛莽，云、奢亦死。
更始二年冬，汉遗中郎将归德侯飒、大司马护军陈遵使匈奴，授单于汉旧制玺绶，王侯以下印绶，因送云、当余亲属贵人从者。
单于舆骄，谓遵、飒曰： 匈奴本与汉为兄弟，匈奴中乱，孝宣皇帝辅立呼韩邪单于，故称臣以尊汉。
今汉亦大乱，为王莽所篡，匈奴亦出兵击莽，空其边境，令天下骚动思汉，莽卒以败而汉复兴，亦我力也，当复尊我！
遵与相牚距，单于终持此言。
其明年夏，还。
会赤眉入长安，更始败。
赞曰：《书》戒 蛮夷猾夏 ，《诗》称 戎狄是膺 ，《春秋》 有道守在四夷 ，久矣，夷狄之为患也！
故自汉兴，忠言嘉谋之臣曷尝不运筹策相与争于庙堂之上乎？
高祖时则刘敬，吕后时樊哙、季布，孝文时贾谊、朝错，李武时王恢、韩安国、朱买臣、公孙弘、董仲舒，人持所见，各有同异，然总其要，归两科而已。
translation: 
The Xiongnu called Xiao Ruoqian. After calling Hanxie Chanyu, the Xiongnu had a close relationship with the Han Dynasty. They were very envious when they saw the emperor of the Han Dynasty's title of "filial piety", so the Chanyus all added "ruoqian".
After Hudu Ershi Shanyuyu succeeded to the throne, he was greedy for Wang Mang's gold and silver rewards, so he sent Daqie Qushe and Yun's sister to Chang'an to pay tribute to Wang Mang with his second-ranking son, King Xiecheng.
Wang Mang's faction and his prince Wang She arrived at Zhilu Fortress together with the Xiongnu Dajie Qushe. They invited Yun and Xubudang to meet, and then coerced them by force and brought them to Chang'an.
Yun and Xubutang's youngest son escaped from the fortress and returned to the Huns.
When Xu Bu arrived in Chang'an, Wang Mang worshiped him as Xu Shanyu and wanted to send a large army to assist him as Shanyu in the Huns.
However, Wang Mang's army could not be mobilized, and the Xiongnu were even more annoyed. All the troops invaded the northern border together, and the northern border fortress was in dilapidated condition.
At this time, Xu Dang died of illness. Wang Mang married his concubine's daughter Lu Luren to Hou An Gongshe as his wife. He was very respectful and doting to her. After all, his purpose was to send troops to support him as a chanyu.
At that time, Han soldiers attacked and killed Wang Mang, and Yun and She were also killed.
In the winter of the second year of Gengshi, the Han Dynasty sent Zhonglang General Gui De Hou Sa and Da Sima Hujun Chen Zun as envoys to the Xiongnu. They awarded the Shanyu the original style of seal and ribbon and the seal ribbon to everyone below the prince. At the same time, all the surviving relatives who had followed Yunhe Xudang to the Central Plains and were still alive were sent back to the Xiongnu.
Chan Yuyu was very arrogant and said to Chen Zun and Wang Sa: The Xiongnu and the Han Dynasty were originally brothers. There was civil strife between the Xiongnu and Emperor Xiaoxuan. He helped Huhanxie Chanyu ascend the throne, so we surrendered to the Han Dynasty to show our respect.
Now there is civil strife in the Han Dynasty, the throne was usurped by Wang Mang, and we the Huns also sent troops to attack Wang Mang, leaving his border empty, making the people of the Han Dynasty riot, and people thinking about Han, so that Wang Mang finally failed and the Han Dynasty was revived. It was also thanks to the strength of our Huns that the Han Dynasty should respect us again!
Chen Zun and Shanyu refused to argue, but Shanyu always insisted on this statement.
In the summer of the next year, Wang Sa and Chen Zun returned to the Han Dynasty.
At this time, the Red Eyebrow Army happened to invade Chang'an, but Liu Xuan failed.
Praising: "The Book of Books" warns the barbarian minorities to disturb the Central Plains, "The Book of Songs" praises "the brave people to face the Rong and Di", "Spring and Autumn" says that the rulers with Tao are also supported by the ethnic minorities on all sides. The barbarians and Di have been harming the Central Plains for a long time.
Therefore, since the establishment of the Han Dynasty, those ministers with loyal advice and far-reaching strategies have worked hard to make plans and debate in the court how to deal with the Yi Di?
During the reign of Emperor Gaozu, there were Liu Jing, under Empress Lu, there were Fan Sha and Ji Bu, under Emperor Xiaowen, there were Jia Yi and Chao Cuo, and under Emperor Xiaowu, there were Wang Hui, Han Anguo, Zhu Maichen, Gongsun Hong, and Dong Zhongshu. People insisted on their own opinions, some were similar and some were different, but in summary, they were two opinions.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
缙绅之儒则守和亲，介胄之士则言征伐，皆偏见一时之利害，而未究匈奴之终始也。
自汉兴以至于今，旷世历年，多于春秋，其与匈奴，有修文而和亲之矣，有用武而克伐之矣，有卑下而承事之矣，有威服而臣畜之矣，诎伸异变，强弱相反，是故其详可得而言也。
昔和亲之论，发于刘敬。
是时，天下初定，新遭平城之难，故从其言，约结和亲，赂遗单于，冀以救安边境。
孝惠、高后时遵而不违，匈奴寇盗不为衰止，而单于反以加骄倨。
逮至孝文，与通关市，妻以汉女，增厚其赂，岁以千金，而匈奴数背约束，边境屡被其害。
是以文帝中年，赫然发愤，遂躬戎服，亲御鞍马，从六郡良家材力之士，驰射上林，讲习战陈，聚天下精兵，军于广武，顾问冯唐，与论将帅，喟然叹息，思古名臣。
此则和亲无益，已然之明效也。
仲舒亲见四世之事，犹复欲守旧文，颇增其约。
以为： 义动君子，利动贪人。如匈奴者，非可以仁义说也，独可说以厚利，结之于天耳。
故与之厚利以没其意，与盟于天以坚其约，质其爱子以累其心，匈奴虽欲展转，奈失重利何，奈欺上天何，奈杀爱子何！
夫赋敛行赂不足以当三军之费，城郭之固无以异于贞士之约，而使边城守境之民父兄缓带，稚子咽哺，胡马不窥于长城，而羽檄不行于中国，不亦便于天下乎！
察仲舒之论，考诸行事，乃知其未合于当时，而有阙于后世也。
当孝武时，虽征伐克获，而士马物故亦略相当；虽开河南之野，建朔方之郡，亦弃造阳之北九百余里。
匈奴人民每来降汉，单于亦辄拘留汉使以相报复，其桀骜尚如斯，安肯以爱子而为质乎？
此不合当时之言也。
translation: 
The gentry and Confucian scholars insisted on making peace with the Xiongnu, while the armored warriors insisted on conquering and attacking the Xiongnu. They all only focused on the beneficial or harmful paranoia of a certain period, but did not thoroughly examine the history of the Xiongnu from beginning to end.
From the establishment of the Han Dynasty to the present, many epochs have passed, more than the "Spring and Autumn Annals". The relationship between the Han Dynasty and the Xiongnu has not only advocated civil rule and implemented peacemaking, but also used force to conquer and fight. There are twists and turns, different changes, maybe I am strong, or you are weak, the status is opposite, so we can talk about the details.
In the past, it was Liu Jing who advocated peace with the Huns.
At that time, the world had just stabilized, and the Han Dynasty had just experienced the disaster of being besieged by the Xiongnu in Pingcheng. Therefore, the emperor followed Ya Ta's suggestion, discussed peace with the Xiongnu, and gave gold, silver, grain, and cotton to the Chanyu, hoping to stabilize the border.
When Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Gao were emperors, they obeyed the Huns and did not dare to disobey. However, the Huns' invasions did not reduce or stop at all, and the Chanyu became even more arrogant.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, he and the Xiongnu traded with each other, opened border markets, married Han princesses to singles, and increased the amount of property given to the Xiongnu, spending a thousand gold each year. However, the Xiongnu repeatedly violated the peace treaty, and the Han Dynasty's borders were repeatedly invaded.
Therefore, when Emperor Wen reached middle age, he became angry and strong. He personally put on military uniforms, mounted war horses, and led the strong and brave warriors from the six counties to practice horseback archery and battle formations in Shanglin Garden. He mobilized the best soldiers and generals from all over the world and stationed them in Guangwu City. Emperor Wen asked Feng Tang about generals and expressed his longing for famous officials in ancient times.
Therefore, it is very clear that there is no benefit in making peace with the Xiongnu.
Dong Zhongshu witnessed with his own eyes the events of the Fourth Dynasty of the Early Han Dynasty, but he still wanted to abide by the past regulations and greatly increased the agreement with the Xiongnu.
He believes that benevolence and righteousness can move gentlemen, and interests can inspire greedy villains. Like the Huns, you cannot use preaching to make them understand benevolence and righteousness. You can only use generous profits and money to make them happy, and swear an oath to heaven with them and form an alliance with them.
Therefore, we should give them more gold and silver to eliminate their violent aggression, swear an alliance with them in heaven to make the alliance between the two parties stronger, and let Shan Yu's beloved son come to the Han Dynasty as a hostage to hinder his determination. Even if the Xiongnu wanted to move around the frontier and attack the Han Dynasty, they could not do anything without worrying that they would lose money and profits, deceive God, and kill their beloved son.
The money collected to send gifts to the Xiongnu is not comparable to the military expenditures of sending out three armies to conquer the Xiongnu; the effectiveness of a strong city to defend the Xiongnu is no different from the effectiveness of sending honest people to enter into an alliance with the Xiongnu. But doing so can make the people who are guarding the border in the border city take off their ammonium armor and relax, so that their children can eat safely. Isn't it very convenient for the people of the world to stop the Huns' cavalry from peeking at the Great Wall of the Han Dynasty, and to stop the use of swords, guns, bows and arrows in the Central Plains?
However, if you examine Dong Zhuqian's remarks and compare them with the facts and situations at the time, you will know that what he said was out of date at the time, and also incorrect for later generations.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, although he gained a lot from attacking the Xiongnu, the number of soldiers and horses that died was roughly the same as what was gained. Although the wilderness south of Hetao was opened up and Shuofang County was built, more than 900 miles north of Zaoyang were abandoned.
The Xiongnu people often surrendered to the Han Dynasty, and the Chanyu always detained the Han Dynasty envoys in retaliation. Their unruly character was still the same, so how could they be willing to hand over their beloved sons to the Han Dynasty as hostages?
This is where Dong Zhongshu's remarks were inappropriate for the time.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
若不置质，空约和亲，是袭孝文既往之悔，而长匈奴无已之诈也。
夫边城不选守境武略之臣，修障隧备塞之具，厉长戟劲弩之械，恃吾所以待边寇而务赋敛于民，远行货赂，割剥百姓，以奉寇雠。
信甘言，守空约，而几胡马之不窥，不已过乎！
translation: 
If the Huns cannot be used as hostages, the marriage covenant will be a blank piece of paper. This will repeat Emperor Xiaowen's past mistakes and encourage the Huns' endless fraud.
We do not select military officers capable of defending the border to garrison the cities on the border; we do not build pavilions and roads to prepare means of defending the border fortress; we do not sharpen our halberds and prepare our bows so that we can have something to rely on, but we continue to exact levies from the people, travel far away to bribe the Xiongnu, and deprive the people of their property to give to our enemies.
Isn’t it too much to believe false good words, keep a promise of useless covenants, and expect the Huns not to invade?


