Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 2, 3, 4, 7, 15, 12]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
呼韩邪单于归庭数月，罢兵使各归故地，乃收其兄呼屠吾斯在民间者立为左谷蠡王，使人告右贤贵人，欲令杀右贤王。
其冬，都隆奇与右贤王共立日逐王薄胥堂为屠耆单于，发兵数万人东袭呼韩邪单于。
呼韩邪单于兵败走，屠耆单于还，以其长子都涂吾西为左谷蠡王，少子姑瞀楼头为右谷蠡王，留居单于庭。
明年秋，屠耆单于使日逐王先贤掸兄右奥鞬王为乌藉都尉各二万骑，屯东方以备呼韩邪单于。
是时，西方呼揭王来与唯犁当户谋，共谗右贤王，言欲自立为乌藉单于。
屠耆单于杀右贤王父子，后知其冤，复杀唯犁当户。
于是呼揭王恐，遂畔去，自立为呼揭单于。
右奥鞬王闻之，即自立为车犁单于。
乌藉都尉亦自立为乌藉单于。
凡五单于。
屠耆单于自将兵东击车犁单于，使都隆奇击乌藉。
乌藉、车犁皆败，西北走，与呼揭单于兵合为四万人。
乌藉、呼揭皆去单于号，共并力尊辅车犁单于。
屠耆单于闻之，使左大将、都尉将四万骑分屯东方，以备呼韩邪单于，自将四万骑西击车犁单于。
车犁单于败，西北走，屠耆单于即引西南，留闟敦地。
其明年，呼韩邪单于遣其弟右谷蠡王等西袭屠耆单于屯兵，杀略万余人。
屠耆单于闻之，即自将六万骑击呼韩邪单于，行千里，未至嗕姑地，逢呼韩邪单于兵可四万人，合战。
屠耆单于兵败，自杀。
都隆奇乃与屠耆少子右谷蠡王姑瞀楼头亡归汉，车犁单于东降呼韩邪单于。
呼韩邪单于左大将乌厉屈与父呼速累乌厉温敦皆见匈奴乱，率其众数万人南降汉。
封乌厉屈为新城侯，乌厉温敦为义阳侯。
是时，李陵子复立乌藉都尉为单于，呼韩邪单于捕斩之，遂复都单于庭，然众裁数万人。
屠耆单于从弟休旬王将所主五六百骑，击杀左大且渠，并其兵，至右地，自立为闰振单于，在西边。
其后，呼韩邪单于兄左贤王呼屠吾斯亦自立为郅支骨都侯单于，在东边。
其后二年，闰振单于率其众东击郅支单于。
郅支单于与战，杀之，并其兵，遂进攻呼韩邪。呼韩邪破，其兵走，郅支都单于庭。
呼韩邪之败也，左伊秩訾王为呼韩邪计，劝令称臣入朝事汉，从汉求助，如此匈奴乃定。
呼韩邪议问诸大臣，皆曰： 不可。
translation: 
A few months after Huhanxie Shanyu returned to the royal court, he stopped the war and asked everyone to return to their original places. He summoned his brother Hutuwusi, who was a commoner, and appointed him King Zuoguli. He also sent people to inform the nobles of Youxian, asking them to kill King Youxian.
That winter, Dulongqi and King Youxian jointly supported the king Zhu Wanglian and set up the hall as Kenzhouliyu, and sent tens of thousands of troops to the east to attack Huhanxie Chanyu.
Huhanxie Chanyu's army was defeated and fled. Tuqi Chanyu returned to the court of the Xiongnu, and appointed his eldest son Dutuwuxi as the king of Zuoguli, and his youngest son Gujiloutou as the king of rightguli, leaving them in the court of the Shanyu.
In the autumn of the next year, Tuqi Chanyu appointed King Youaota, the elder brother of the Richu King Xianxian Shan, as the Wujie Captain, and asked them to lead 20,000 cavalry respectively and station them at Shubian to guard against Huhanxie Chanyu.
At this time, the king of Hujie from the west came to plan with Weili, and together they slandered the Shanyu of Tu Qi and slandered King Youxian, saying that he wanted to establish himself as a Uprising Chanyu.
So Tuqi Chanyu killed King Youxian and his son. Later, Tuqi Chanyu knew that King Youxian had been wronged, so he killed Weili in his own right.
Therefore, King Hujie was very frightened, so he betrayed Tuqi Chanyu and ran away, and established himself as Hujie Chanyu.
When King Youao Tartar heard about it, he established himself as the chayu chanyu.
Wujiu Duwei also established himself as Wujii Chanyu.
In this way, the Xiongnu had five chanyus.
Tuqi Chanyu personally led his troops eastward to attack Cheli Chanyu, and sent Dulongqi to attack Wujii Chanyu.
Both Wujii Chanyu and Chesai Chanyu were defeated and fled to the northwest to join Hujie Chanyu's army, which totaled 40,000 people.
King Wujie and King Hujie both removed their titles of Chanyu and worked together to assist Chanyu Cheli.
When Tuqi Chanyu heard about it, he sent General Zuo and Duwei with 40,000 cavalry to station in the east to guard against Huhanxie Chanyu. King Xingzhouli himself led 40,000 cavalry to the west to attack Cheli Chanyu.
Cheli Chanyu was defeated and fled to the northwest. Tuqi Chanyu led his army to the southwest and garrisoned at Mengdun.
The next year, Huhanxie Chanyu sent his younger brother Yougu Li Wang and others to lead troops west to attack Tuqi Chanyu's army stationed in Hedun, killing and plundering more than 10,000 people.
When Tu Qi Chanyu heard about it, he personally led 60,000 cavalry to attack Huhanxie Chanyu. They had traveled nearly a thousand miles, but they hadn't arrived yet! In the cricket area, they encountered Huhanxie Chanyu's nearly 40,000 troops.
The two sides fought, and Tu Qi Shanyu was defeated and committed suicide.
Tsang Longtong escaped with Tu Qi Chanyu's youngest son, Youguli Wang Guzhong Loutou, and surrendered. Cheli Chanyu went east and surrendered to Huhanxie Shanren.
Hu Hanxie Shanyu's left-hand general Dan Quli and his father Hu Yingleigu Nie Wenzheng saw Bao Nui in such chaos, so they led tens of thousands of their troops to surrender to the south and surrendered to Forsythia.
He also sealed Wu Li Zhou as the new city marquis and Gu Li Wen Chi as the Zhan Wu Fort.
At this time, Kui Lu's son supported Zhou Jiedu as Chanyu. Huhanxie Chanyu sent people to hunt and kill them. So Huhanxie Chanyu returned to the court of the Xiongnu. However, there were only tens of thousands of people in his tribe.
King Xiu Xun, cousin of Tu Qi Chanyu, led his five or six hundred cavalry to attack and kill Zuo Daqiequ, annexed his army, arrived at Youdi, and established himself as Runzhen Chanyu, living in the west of the Xiongnu.
Later, Huhanxie Chanyu's brother Zuoxian King Hutuwusi also established himself as Chanyu, the Marquis of Zhizhigu, and lived in Baosusubu.
Two years later, Runzhen Chanyu led his troops to attack Zhizhi Chanyu eastward.
Zhizhi Chanyu faced off against Runzhen Chanyu, killed him, annexed his troops, and then attacked Huhanxie Chanyu. The army was defeated, and Zhizhi Chanyu made his capital in the royal court.
When Huhanxie was defeated and Huhanxie Shanyu was defeated, King Zuoyi Zhizi made plans for King Lizheng Wuli, and persuaded him to surrender to Han and serve the emperor, so as to seek help from Huansu Nabuo, so that he could stabilize his body.
Huhanxie Shanyu discussed with the ministers and asked them. The ministers all said: This cannot be done.

summary:
summary line 0: After Huhanxie Chanyu returned to his court, he ended the war and appointed his brother Hutuwusi as King Zuoguli. He also ordered the killing of King Youxian. That winter, Dulongqi and King Youxian supported Zhu Wanglian as a rival chanyu and attacked Huhanxie, who was defeated and fled. Tuqi Chanyu then took control, appointing his sons as kings. The following autumn, Tuqi Chanyu stationed troops to guard against Huhanxie. Internal strife escalated when King Hujie slandered King Youxian, leading to his execution. This caused King Hujie to flee and declare himself Chanyu, followed by others, resulting in five rival chanyus.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
呼韩邪单于归庭数月，罢兵使各归故地，乃收其兄呼屠吾斯在民间者立为左谷蠡王，使人告右贤贵人，欲令杀右贤王。
其冬，都隆奇与右贤王共立日逐王薄胥堂为屠耆单于，发兵数万人东袭呼韩邪单于。
呼韩邪单于兵败走，屠耆单于还，以其长子都涂吾西为左谷蠡王，少子姑瞀楼头为右谷蠡王，留居单于庭。
明年秋，屠耆单于使日逐王先贤掸兄右奥鞬王为乌藉都尉各二万骑，屯东方以备呼韩邪单于。
是时，西方呼揭王来与唯犁当户谋，共谗右贤王，言欲自立为乌藉单于。
屠耆单于杀右贤王父子，后知其冤，复杀唯犁当户。
于是呼揭王恐，遂畔去，自立为呼揭单于。
右奥鞬王闻之，即自立为车犁单于。
乌藉都尉亦自立为乌藉单于。
凡五单于。
屠耆单于自将兵东击车犁单于，使都隆奇击乌藉。
乌藉、车犁皆败，西北走，与呼揭单于兵合为四万人。
乌藉、呼揭皆去单于号，共并力尊辅车犁单于。
屠耆单于闻之，使左大将、都尉将四万骑分屯东方，以备呼韩邪单于，自将四万骑西击车犁单于。
车犁单于败，西北走，屠耆单于即引西南，留闟敦地。
其明年，呼韩邪单于遣其弟右谷蠡王等西袭屠耆单于屯兵，杀略万余人。
屠耆单于闻之，即自将六万骑击呼韩邪单于，行千里，未至嗕姑地，逢呼韩邪单于兵可四万人，合战。
屠耆单于兵败，自杀。
都隆奇乃与屠耆少子右谷蠡王姑瞀楼头亡归汉，车犁单于东降呼韩邪单于。
呼韩邪单于左大将乌厉屈与父呼速累乌厉温敦皆见匈奴乱，率其众数万人南降汉。
封乌厉屈为新城侯，乌厉温敦为义阳侯。
是时，李陵子复立乌藉都尉为单于，呼韩邪单于捕斩之，遂复都单于庭，然众裁数万人。
屠耆单于从弟休旬王将所主五六百骑，击杀左大且渠，并其兵，至右地，自立为闰振单于，在西边。
其后，呼韩邪单于兄左贤王呼屠吾斯亦自立为郅支骨都侯单于，在东边。
其后二年，闰振单于率其众东击郅支单于。
郅支单于与战，杀之，并其兵，遂进攻呼韩邪。呼韩邪破，其兵走，郅支都单于庭。
呼韩邪之败也，左伊秩訾王为呼韩邪计，劝令称臣入朝事汉，从汉求助，如此匈奴乃定。
呼韩邪议问诸大臣，皆曰： 不可。
translation: 
A few months after Huhanxie Shanyu returned to the royal court, he stopped the war and asked everyone to return to their original places. He summoned his brother Hutuwusi, who was a commoner, and appointed him King Zuoguli. He also sent people to inform the nobles of Youxian, asking them to kill King Youxian.
That winter, Dulongqi and King Youxian jointly supported the king Zhu Wanglian and set up the hall as Kenzhouliyu, and sent tens of thousands of troops to the east to attack Huhanxie Chanyu.
Huhanxie Chanyu's army was defeated and fled. Tuqi Chanyu returned to the court of the Xiongnu, and appointed his eldest son Dutuwuxi as the king of Zuoguli, and his youngest son Gujiloutou as the king of rightguli, leaving them in the court of the Shanyu.
In the autumn of the next year, Tuqi Chanyu appointed King Youaota, the elder brother of the Richu King Xianxian Shan, as the Wujie Captain, and asked them to lead 20,000 cavalry respectively and station them at Shubian to guard against Huhanxie Chanyu.
At this time, the king of Hujie from the west came to plan with Weili, and together they slandered the Shanyu of Tu Qi and slandered King Youxian, saying that he wanted to establish himself as a Uprising Chanyu.
So Tuqi Chanyu killed King Youxian and his son. Later, Tuqi Chanyu knew that King Youxian had been wronged, so he killed Weili in his own right.
Therefore, King Hujie was very frightened, so he betrayed Tuqi Chanyu and ran away, and established himself as Hujie Chanyu.
When King Youao Tartar heard about it, he established himself as the chayu chanyu.
Wujiu Duwei also established himself as Wujii Chanyu.
In this way, the Xiongnu had five chanyus.
Tuqi Chanyu personally led his troops eastward to attack Cheli Chanyu, and sent Dulongqi to attack Wujii Chanyu.
Both Wujii Chanyu and Chesai Chanyu were defeated and fled to the northwest to join Hujie Chanyu's army, which totaled 40,000 people.
King Wujie and King Hujie both removed their titles of Chanyu and worked together to assist Chanyu Cheli.
When Tuqi Chanyu heard about it, he sent General Zuo and Duwei with 40,000 cavalry to station in the east to guard against Huhanxie Chanyu. King Xingzhouli himself led 40,000 cavalry to the west to attack Cheli Chanyu.
Cheli Chanyu was defeated and fled to the northwest. Tuqi Chanyu led his army to the southwest and garrisoned at Mengdun.
The next year, Huhanxie Chanyu sent his younger brother Yougu Li Wang and others to lead troops west to attack Tuqi Chanyu's army stationed in Hedun, killing and plundering more than 10,000 people.
When Tu Qi Chanyu heard about it, he personally led 60,000 cavalry to attack Huhanxie Chanyu. They had traveled nearly a thousand miles, but they hadn't arrived yet! In the cricket area, they encountered Huhanxie Chanyu's nearly 40,000 troops.
The two sides fought, and Tu Qi Shanyu was defeated and committed suicide.
Tsang Longtong escaped with Tu Qi Chanyu's youngest son, Youguli Wang Guzhong Loutou, and surrendered. Cheli Chanyu went east and surrendered to Huhanxie Shanren.
Hu Hanxie Shanyu's left-hand general Dan Quli and his father Hu Yingleigu Nie Wenzheng saw Bao Nui in such chaos, so they led tens of thousands of their troops to surrender to the south and surrendered to Forsythia.
He also sealed Wu Li Zhou as the new city marquis and Gu Li Wen Chi as the Zhan Wu Fort.
At this time, Kui Lu's son supported Zhou Jiedu as Chanyu. Huhanxie Chanyu sent people to hunt and kill them. So Huhanxie Chanyu returned to the court of the Xiongnu. However, there were only tens of thousands of people in his tribe.
King Xiu Xun, cousin of Tu Qi Chanyu, led his five or six hundred cavalry to attack and kill Zuo Daqiequ, annexed his army, arrived at Youdi, and established himself as Runzhen Chanyu, living in the west of the Xiongnu.
Later, Huhanxie Chanyu's brother Zuoxian King Hutuwusi also established himself as Chanyu, the Marquis of Zhizhigu, and lived in Baosusubu.
Two years later, Runzhen Chanyu led his troops to attack Zhizhi Chanyu eastward.
Zhizhi Chanyu faced off against Runzhen Chanyu, killed him, annexed his troops, and then attacked Huhanxie Chanyu. The army was defeated, and Zhizhi Chanyu made his capital in the royal court.
When Huhanxie was defeated and Huhanxie Shanyu was defeated, King Zuoyi Zhizi made plans for King Lizheng Wuli, and persuaded him to surrender to Han and serve the emperor, so as to seek help from Huansu Nabuo, so that he could stabilize his body.
Huhanxie Shanyu discussed with the ministers and asked them. The ministers all said: This cannot be done.

summary:
summary line 1: Tuqi Chanyu attacked Cheli Chanyu and Wujii Chanyu, both of whom fled to join Hujie Chanyu. Tuqi then sent forces east and west, but Huhanxie Chanyu attacked and killed over 10,000 of Tuqi's troops. Tuqi retaliated with 60,000 cavalry but was defeated and committed suicide. Huhanxie Chanyu's general Dan Quli surrendered to the Han Dynasty. Huhanxie returned to his court with only tens of thousands of followers. Runzhen Chanyu and Zhizhi Chanyu emerged, with Zhizhi killing Runzhen and attacking Huhanxie, who was defeated.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
上登长平，诏单于毋谒，其左右当户之群臣皆得列观，及诸蛮夷君长王侯数万，咸迎于渭桥下，夹道陈。
上登渭桥，咸称万岁。
单于就邸，留月余，遣归国。
单于自请愿留居光禄塞下，有急保汉受降城。
汉遣长乐卫尉高昌侯董忠、车骑都尉韩昌将骑万六千，又发边郡士马以千数，送单于出朔方鸡鹿塞。
诏忠等留卫单于，助诛不服，又转边谷米糒，前后三万四千斛，给赡其食。
是岁，郅支单于亦遣使奉献，汉遇之甚厚。
明年，两单于俱遣使朝献，汉待呼韩邪使有加。
明年，呼韩邪单于复入朝，礼赐如初，加衣百一十袭，锦帛九千匹，絮八千斤。
以有屯兵，故不复发骑为送。
始，郅支单于以为呼韩邪降汉，兵弱不能复自还，即引其众西，欲攻定右地。
又屠耆单于小弟本侍呼韩邪，亦亡之右地，收两兄余兵得数千人，自立为伊利目单于，道逢郅支，合战，郅支杀之，并其兵五万余人。
闻汉出兵、谷助呼韩邪，即遂留居右地。
自度力不能定匈奴，乃益西近乌孙，欲与并力，遣使见小昆弥乌就屠。
乌就屠见呼韩邪为汉所拥，郅支亡虏，欲攻之以称汉，乃杀郅支使，持头送都护在所，发八千骑迎郅支。
郅支见乌孙兵多，其使又不反，勒兵逢击乌孙，破之。
因北击乌揭，乌揭降。
发其兵西破坚昆，北降丁令，并三国。
数遣兵击乌孙，常胜之。
坚昆东去单于庭七千里，南去车师五千里，郅支留都之。
元帝初即位，呼韩邪单于复上书，言民众困乏。
translation: 
When the emperor ascended the hillside of Changping, Shao ordered Shanzi not to come to pay him a visit. The ministers of the left and right households were allowed to line up to see him. There were also tens of thousands of Ganhou, the leaders of the barbarian tribes, who lined up along the road to greet the emperor under the Wei Bridge.
When the emperor boarded the Wei Bridge, people shouted long live.
Chanyu lived in Guanyi and stayed there for more than a month. The emperor sent him back to his country.
Chanyu himself requested that he be allowed to stay and live under Guanglu Fortress so that he could defend the surrendered city of the Han Dynasty in case of emergency.
The Han Dynasty sent Changle Guardsman Gaochanghou Dong Zhong and Chariot and Cavalry Commander Han Chang to lead 16,000 cavalry, as well as thousands of troops from border prefectures and counties to escort Huhanxie Chanyu out of Jilusai in Shuofang City.
The emperor ordered Dong Zhong and others to stay there to protect Shanyu and help him attack the rebellious and disobedient people. He also transported 34,000 hu of grain and rice to the frontier for food to the Huns.
In this year, Zhizhi Shanyu also sent envoys to the Han Dynasty to pay tribute. The Han Dynasty treated the envoys very well.
The next year, both Chanyus sent envoys to the Han Dynasty to meet the emperor and contribute gifts. The Han Dynasty treated Huhanxie Chanyu's envoy more favorably.
The next year, Huhanxie Shanyu came to the Jin Dynasty again to see the emperor. The emperor continued to offer the same gifts and rewards as before, and added 110 sets of clothes, 9,000 pieces of brocade and silk, and 8,000 catties of thick silk and cotton.
Because there were already troops stationed in the Huns, no more troops were sent to escort them.
At first, Zhizhi Chanyu thought that Huhanxie Chanyu had surrendered to the Han Dynasty and his troops were weak and would not come back again, so he led his army to the west, hoping to attack and pacify Youdi.
In addition, Tuqi Chanyu's younger brother originally served Huhanxie Chanyu, but now he also fled to the right place, gathered the tribes of his two brothers, got several thousand people, and established himself as Yili Mu Chanyu. On the road, he met Zhizhi Chanyu, and the two sides fought. Zhizhi Chanyu defeated and killed Yilimu Chanyu, and annexed his army of more than 50,000 people.
Hearing that the Han Dynasty sent troops and food to help Huhanxie Shanyu, he simply stayed and settled in Youdi.
Zhizhi Shanyu considered that his own strength could not defeat the Xiongnu, so he went further west and approached Wusun. He wanted to unite with Wusun and sent an envoy to see Xiaokun Miwu and slaughter him.
When Wujiutu saw that Huhanye Chanyu was receiving courtesy and help from the Han Dynasty, while Zhizhi Chanyu was on the run, he wanted to attack Zhizhi and cater to the Han Dynasty, so he killed Zhizhi's envoy, sent his head to the Han Dynasty's Western Region Protector, and dispatched eight thousand cavalry to attack Zhizhi.
Chanyu Zhizhi saw that Wusun had many soldiers and his envoy failed to return, so he led his army to attack Wusun and defeated Wusun.
Taking the opportunity to attack Wujie to the north, Wujie surrendered.
He also sent his own troops to the west to conquer Jiankun and to the north to defeat Ding Ling, and annexed these three countries.
Zhizhi Chanyu sent troops to attack Wusun many times and often won.
Jiankun was seven thousand miles away from the king's court in the east and five thousand miles away from Cheshi in the south. The Zhi branch stayed there and established its capital there.
Emperor Yuan had just ascended the throne, and Huhanxie Shanyu wrote to the Emperor of Han again, saying that the people of Baoqu were very poor and impoverished.

summary:
summary line 2: King Zuoyi Zhizi advised Huhanxie to surrender to the Han Dynasty for stability. Despite opposition from ministers who valued Xiongnu martial traditions, Huhanxie agreed and led his people south, sending his son as a hostage. The Han emperor received Huhanxie with great honor, granting him titles, gifts, and troops for protection. Huhanxie requested to stay near the Han border for defense. The Han provided food and military support. Zhizhi Chanyu, meanwhile, moved west, attacking Wusun and other tribes, establishing his capital in Jiankun.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
汉诏云中、五原郡转谷二万斛以给焉。
郅支单于自以道远，又怨汉拥护呼韩邪，遣使上书求侍子。
汉遣谷吉送之，郅支杀吉。
汉不知吉音问，而匈奴降者言闻瓯脱皆杀之。
呼韩邪单于使来，汉辄簿责之甚急。
明年，汉遣车骑都尉韩昌、光禄大夫张猛送呼韩邪单于侍子，求问吉等，因赦其罪，勿令自疑。
昌、猛见单于民众益盛，塞下禽兽尽，单于足以自卫，不畏郅支。
闻其大臣多劝单于北归者，恐北去后难约束，昌、猛即与为盟约曰： 自今以来，汉与匈奴合为一家，世世毋得相诈相攻。
有窃盗者，相报，行其诛，偿其物；有寇，发兵相助。
汉与匈奴敢先背约者，受天不祥。
令其世世子孙尽如盟。
昌、猛与单于及大臣俱登匈奴诺水东山，刑白马，单于以径路刀金留犁挠酒，以老上单于所破月氏王头为饮器者共饮血盟。
昌、猛还奏事，公卿议者以为： 单于保塞为藩，虽欲北去，犹不能为危害。
昌、猛擅以汉国世世子孙与夷狄诅盟，令单于得以恶言上告于天，羞国家，伤威重，不可得行。
宜遣使往告祠天，与解盟。
昌、猛奉使无状，罪至不道。
上薄其过，有诏昌、猛以赎论，勿解盟。
其后呼韩邪竟北归庭，人众稍稍归之，国中遂定。
translation: 
Xing issued an edict ordering Yunzhong County and Wuyuan County to transport 20,000 hu of grain for packaging.
Because his residence was far away from the road of the Han Dynasty, and he was very resentful of the Han Dynasty's support and help to Huhanxie Chanyu, Zhizhi Chanyu sent an envoy to Zhuimou to submit a letter, requesting to take back his son who had become a servant.
Xuansu sent Zhuzao to send him back, but Shanyu Zhuzhi killed Gu Ji.
The Han Dynasty did not know the news about Gu Ji. The Huns who came to surrender to the Han Dynasty reported that they had heard from the Huns in Ou Tuo that Gu Ji had been killed.
Hu Hanxie Chanyu sent envoys to the court, and the Han Dynasty was always very anxious to send documents asking for news about Gu Ji.
The next year, the Han Dynasty sent Han Chang, the captain of chariots and cavalry, and Zhang Meng, the Guanglu doctor, to escort Hu Hanxie Shanyu's son, who was serving as a servant, back to the Huns. They also inquired about Gu Ji and others, and announced a pardon for the Huns' sins, lest they worry that the Han Dynasty would attack them.
Han Chang and Zhang Meng saw that the Xiongnu tribe was prosperous and that all the animals under the fortress had been hunted down. The Chan Yu was strong enough to defend himself and was no longer afraid of Zhizhi.
Han and Zhang heard that many Xiongnu ministers advised the Shanyu to return to the north where they originally lived. They were worried that it would be difficult to govern the Xiongnu after they returned to the north. Han Chang and Zhang Meng made an alliance with the Shanyu, saying: From now on, the Han Dynasty and the Xiongnu are one family, and they are not allowed to deceive or attack each other from generation to generation.
When theft or robbery occurs, both parties must report to each other, punish the thief, and compensate for the lost property; when an enemy invades, they must send troops to rescue each other.
If either the Han Dynasty or the Xiongnu dared to betray the alliance first, they would be willing to accept the punishment of heaven.
Let their descendants and descendants suffer disaster just as the covenant says.
Han Chang, Zhang Meng, Hu Hanxie Chanyu and his ministers climbed to Nuoshuishu Mountain of the Xiongnu and killed the white horse. The Chanyu used a path knife and a golden plow to stir the wine mixed with the blood of the horse, and used the head of the Yuezhi King whom the old Shanyu had killed as a wine cup, and they drank the blood wine together as an alliance.
Han Chang and Zhang Meng reported this matter after they returned to the Han Dynasty. The ministers discussed the matter and said: "The Chanyu has promised us that we are willing to serve as a vassal to protect the frontier. Even if we want to return to the north, it will not pose a threat or hindrance to the Han Dynasty."
Han Chang and Zhang Meng acted without authorization and made an alliance with the Xiongnu on the future of the descendants of the Han Dynasty. This allowed the Chanyu to use evil words to tell heaven, humiliating the Han Dynasty and damaging the prestige of the country. This must not be done.
Envoys should be sent to appeal to Heaven and dissolve the former alliance with the Xiongnu.
Han Chang and Zhang Meng were ordered to go on a mission, which was not proper and their crimes were extremely treasonous.
The emperor alleviated their sins and issued an edict that Han Chang and Zhang Meng could be punished for their crimes but not terminate their alliance with the Huns.
Later, Huhanxie Chanyu finally returned to the court of Chanyu in the north. The Huns gradually surrendered to him, and the country settled down.

summary:
summary line 3: Emperor Yuan succeeded and Huhanxie requested aid due to poverty. The Han sent grain. Zhizhi, resentful of Han support for Huhanxie, killed a Han envoy. The Han sent envoys to escort Huhanxie's son back and made an alliance with him, pledging mutual defense. However, Han officials criticized the alliance as unauthorized. Huhanxie eventually returned north, stabilizing his rule. Zhizhi, fearing Han retaliation, moved further west and allied with Kangju, but was later killed by Han forces. Huhanxie, relieved, requested to visit the Han court again.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
郅支既杀使者，自知负汉，又闻呼韩邪益强，恐见袭击，欲远去。
会康居王数为乌孙所困，与诸翕侯计，以为匈奴大国，乌孙素服属之，今郅支单于困厄在外，可迎置东边，使合兵取乌孙以立之，长无匈奴忧矣。
即使使至坚昆通语郅支。
郅支素恐，又怨乌孙，闻康居计，大说，遂与相结，引兵而西。
康居亦遣贵人，橐它驴马数千匹，迎郅支。
郅支人众中寒道死，余财三千人到康居。
其后，都护甘延寿与副陈汤发兵即康居诛斩郅支，语在《延寿、汤传》。
郅支既诛，呼韩邪单于且喜且惧，上书言曰： 常愿谒见天子，诚以郅支在西方，恐其与乌孙俱来击臣，以故未得至汉。
今郅支已伏诛，愿入朝见。
竟宁元年，单于复入朝，礼赐如初，加衣服锦帛絮，皆倍于黄龙时。
单于自言愿婿汉氏以自亲。
元帝以后宫良家子王墙字昭君赐单于。
单于欢喜，上书愿保塞上谷以西至敦煌，传之无穷，请罢边备塞吏卒，以休天子人民。
天子令下有司议，议者皆以为便。
郎中侯应习边事，以为不可许。
上问状，应曰：
周、秦以来，匈奴暴桀，寇侵边境，汉兴，尤被其害。
臣闻北边塞至辽东，外有阴山，东西千余里，草木茂盛，多禽兽，本冒顿单于依阻其中，治作弓矢，来出为寇，是其苑囿也。
至孝武世，出师征伐，斥夺此地，攘之于幕北。
translation: 
Chanyu Zhizhi killed the envoy of the Han Dynasty, and he knew that he had failed the Han Dynasty. He also heard that Huhanxie was getting stronger, so he was worried about being attacked and wanted to move to a distant place.
It happened that King Kangju was besieged by the Wusun Kingdom many times at this time. He discussed with his Xihous that the Xiongnu was a powerful country and the Wusun Kingdom had always been subordinate to it. Now that Zhizhi Chanyu was living in exile, he could welcome him and live in Shubu. The two sides worked together to defeat Wusun and let Zhizhi Chanyu become king there. In this way, there would never be worries from the Huns.
So he sent an envoy to Jiankun to tell Chanyu Zhizhi these words.
Chanyu Zhizhi was often worried about being invaded by Huhanxie and resented Wusun. He was very happy when he heard King Kangju's plan, so he joined forces with Kangju and led the army to the west.
Kangju also sent nobles with thousands of camels, donkeys, and horses to meet Zhizhi.
Many of Zhizhi's tribe died of cold and starvation on the road, and finally only 3,000 people were left to reach Kangju.
Later, the governor Gan Yanshou and the deputy governor Chen Tang sent troops to Kangju to kill Zhizhi Shanyu. These are recorded in the biographies of Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang.
After Zhizhi Chanyu was killed, Huhanxie Chanyu was happy and scared, and wrote to the Emperor Xuan: I often hope to go to see His Majesty, but it is actually because Zhizhi Chanyu lives in the west, and I am worried that he will attack me with Mercer, so I cannot go to see the Emperor.
Now that Wai Mu has been convicted and killed, I hope that I can be allowed to come to the court to pay my respects.
In the first year of Jingning, Huhanxie Chanyu came to the Han Dynasty again. The Han Dynasty treated him with the same courtesy and rewards as before, and increased the rewards of clothes, brocade, silk, and thick silk and cotton, which were twice as much as in the Huanglong year.
Chanyu himself said that he would like to be the son-in-law of the Han Dynasty to get closer to the Han Dynasty.
Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty gave Shanyu Wang Qiangzi Zhaojun, a good woman who was a servant of the harem, as his wife.
The Chanyu was very happy and wrote to the emperor, saying that he was willing to protect the Han Dynasty frontier from Shanggu west to Dunhuang and pass it on forever. He asked the emperor to withdraw the officials and soldiers guarding the border fortress so that the emperor's subjects could rest and recuperate.
The emperor handed the matter over to the ministers for discussion, and the ministers in charge thought it was very convenient.
Langzhong Linghou should be familiar with the affairs of the frontier fortress and thought that he could not agree to the Huns like this.
Emperor Mo Yuan asked him why, and Hou Ying replied:
Since the Zhou and Qin Dynasties, the Xiongnu have been very violent and unruly, invading the frontiers. After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, they suffered particularly serious consequences.
I heard that our northern border fortress reaches all the way to Liaodong. Outside is the Yinshan Mountains, which is more than a thousand miles long from east to west, with lush vegetation and many animals. This place was originally the place where Maodun Shanyu relied on. He made bows and arrows here, trained his troops, and came in and out of Yinshan to harass us. Yinshan was the garden where they raised animals.
When Emperor Xiaowu arrived, he sent troops to attack and capture the area and drove them to the north of the desert.

summary:
summary line 4: In the first year of Jingning, Huhanxie visited the Han court and received generous gifts. He requested to become a Han son-in-law, and Emperor Yuan gave him Wang Zhaojun as a wife. Huhanxie offered to defend the Han border from Shanggu to Dunhuang and asked for the withdrawal of Han border troops. The emperor consulted officials, and Hou Ying argued against withdrawal, citing ten reasons: the strategic value of the Yinshan Mountains, the Xiongnu's untrustworthy nature, the need to prevent internal crime and defections, and the risk of future emergencies. The emperor agreed and declined Huhanxie's request.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
呼韩邪立二十八年，建始二年死。
始，呼韩邪嬖左伊秩訾兄呼衍王女二人。
长女颛渠阏氏，生二子，长曰且莫车，次曰囊知牙斯。
少女为大阏氏，生四子，长曰雕陶莫皋，次曰且糜胥，皆长于且莫车，少子咸、乐二人，皆小子囊知牙斯。
又它阏氏子十余人。
颛渠阏氏贵，且莫车爱。
呼韩邪病且死，欲立且莫车，其母颛渠阏氏曰： 匈奴乱十余年，不绝如发，赖蒙汉力，故得复安。
今平定未久，人民创艾战斗，且莫车年少，百姓未附，恐复危国。
我与大阏氏一家共子，不如立雕陶莫皋。
大阏氏曰： 且莫车虽少，大臣共持国事，今舍贵立贱，后世必乱。
单于卒从颛渠阏氏计，立雕陶莫皋，约令传国与弟。
呼韩邪死，雕陶莫皋立，为复株累若鞮单于。
复株累若鞮单于立，遣子右致卢儿王醯谐屠奴侯入侍，以且糜胥为左贤王，且莫车为左谷蠡王，囊知牙斯为右贤王。
复株累单于复妻王昭君，生二女，长女云为须卜居次，小女为当于居次。
河平元年，单于遣右皋林王伊邪莫演等奉献朝正月。
既罢，遣使者送至蒲反。
伊邪莫演言： 欲降，即不受我，我自杀，终不敢还归。
使者以闻，下公卿议。议者或言宜如故事，受其降。
光禄大夫谷永、议郎杜钦以为： 汉兴，匈奴数为边害，故设金爵之赏以待降者。
今单于诎体称臣，列为北藩，遣使朝贺，无有二心，汉家接之，宜异于往时。
今既享单于聘贡之质，而更受其逋逃之臣，是贪一夫之得而失一国之心，拥有罪之臣而绝慕义之君也。
假令单于初立，欲委身中国，未知利害，私使伊邪莫演诈降以卜吉凶，受之亏德沮善，令单于自疏，不亲边吏；或者设为反间，欲因而生隙，受之适合其策，使得归曲而直责。
此诚边境安危之原，师旅动静之首，不可不详也。
不如勿受，以昭日月之信，抑诈谖之谋，怀附亲之心，便。
translation: 
Hu Hanxie Shanyu reigned for twenty-eight years and died in the second year of Jianshi.
At first, Huhanxie Chanyu doted on the two daughters of King Huyan, brother of Zuoyi Zhizi.
The eldest daughter is Zhuanquban, and she gave birth to two sons. The eldest son is named Qiemoche, and the second son is named Nangzhiyasi.
The second daughter of King Hu Xian was of the Dapi family, and she gave birth to four sons. The eldest son was called Diao Tao Mogao, and the second son was named Qie Mixu, both of whom were older than Qie Moche. The two younger sons were Xian and Le, both younger than Nangzhi Yasi.
There were also more than ten other sons born to Pi.
Zhuanquban's family was noble, and Moche was also favored by Shanyu.
Hu Hanxie Shanyu was about to die of illness and wanted Qie Moche to succeed him. His mother, Zhuan Qupi, said: The Xiongnu have been in chaos for more than ten years, and this situation cannot be cut off like hair. Fortunately, with the help of the Han Dynasty, the Xiongnu was able to stabilize. The country has not been peaceful for a long time, and many people have been killed and injured in wars.
Moreover, Mo Che was still young and the people failed to rally to him. If he were to take the throne, it would probably put the Xiongnu in danger again.
Zuo Tiya and I are sisters, and we have the same sons. It would be better to have Tao Mogao carved as a chanyu.
Tai Laoya said: Although Mu Moche is young and has ministers to help handle national affairs, if he abandons the noble now and supports the humble, I am afraid there will be trouble in the future.
Huhanxie Chanyu finally followed Zhuanquban's suggestion and sculpted Tao Mogao as Chanyu and made a covenant to pass the country to his younger brother in the future.
After the death of Hu Hanxie, Diao Tao Mogao came to the throne and was called Fuzhuanruo Qianchanyu.
After Fuzhu case Ruo Qian Chanyu came to the throne, he sent his son Youzhi to King Lu'er, Xiexie Tu Nuhou, to serve the emperor in He, and appointed the emperor. Mi Xu was appointed King of Zuo Xian, Danhuang Nuo was appointed King of Zuo Guli, and Nangzhi Yasi was appointed King of You Xian.
In the Fuzhu case, Shanyu also took Yudan Donkey as his wife and gave birth to two daughters. The eldest daughter Yun was the second, and the second daughter was the second.
In the first year of Heping, the Chanyu sent Yougao Lin Wang Yixiemoyan and others to the Han Dynasty to pay tribute and participate in the first month worship.
At the end of the dynasty, the Han Dynasty sent envoys to escort Yixiemoyan and others to Pufan.
Yixiemo made a speech: I want to surrender to the Han Dynasty. If you don't agree to this, I will commit suicide. Why won't I return to the Huns?
The envoys from the Han Dynasty came back to report, and the emperor handed over the matter to the ministers for discussion. Some people said that those who surrendered should be accepted as before.
Gu Yong and Yilang Duqin, Guanglu officials, believed that since the founding of the Han Dynasty, the Huns had repeatedly invaded and harmed the border areas, so we set up a generous reward of titles and money to attract the Huns who surrendered.
Now the Chanyu is very submissive, professing vassalage to the Han Dynasty, and is listed as a vassal state in the north. He sends envoys to the Han Dynasty to pay homage and congratulate him without any second thoughts. Therefore, the Han Dynasty should treat those who surrender differently from the past.
Now, since we have accepted the loyal invitations and tributes from Shan Yu, but also accepted their defected ministers, doing so is greedy for one person, but losing the loyalty of the people of the country, politely supporting the guilty ministers, and abandoning the monarch who admires benevolence and righteousness.
If the Shanyu has just ascended the throne and wants to get close to the Han Dynasty and come to pay homage to the Han Dynasty, but does not know what the attitude of the Han Dynasty is, whether it is good or bad for him, and secretly sends Yixie Moyan to pretend to surrender to see what the future will be like, if we accept the surrender, it will destroy the good deeds and be virtuous. Unfortunately, the Shanyu himself alienated us and did not get close to the officials on our frontier; or someone used rhetorical tactics to create discord between us. If we accepted the surrender, we would have fallen into his trap, allowing the Huns to accuse us of doing something wrong and blame us for being wrong.
This is actually the root cause of whether our border is safe or not. The starting point of whether the army is dispatched or not cannot be taken lightly.
It is better not to accept those who surrender, to show the Xiongnu our trust that is as unchangeable as the sun and the moon, to suppress the deceitful and evil plots, and to protect those who surrender to the Han Dynasty. This is a convenient strategy.

summary:
summary line 5: King Zuoyi Zhizi, who had advised Huhanxie to submit to Han, later fell under suspicion and surrendered to Han. Huhanxie later apologized and asked him to return, but he refused. Huhanxie died after 28 years, succeeded by his son Diao Tao Mogao as Fuzhuanruo Qianchanyu, following the advice of his mother Zhuanquban to avoid instability. The new chanyu appointed his brothers as kings and continued relations with Han. Subsequent chanyus maintained ties, sending sons as hostages and visiting the Han court.

Chunk 15: 
original: 
单于始用夏侯藩求地有距汉语，后以求税乌桓不得，因寇略其人民，衅由是生，重以印文改易，故怨恨。
乃遣右大且渠蒲呼卢訾等十余人将兵众万骑，以护送乌桓为名，勒兵朔方塞下。
朔方太守以闻。
明年，西域车师后王须置离谋降匈奴，都护但钦诛斩之。
置离兄狐兰支将人众二千余人，驱畜产，举国亡降匈奴，单于受之。
狐兰支与匈奴共入寇，击车师，杀后成长，伤都护司马，复还入匈奴。
时，戊己校尉史陈良、终带、司马丞韩玄、右曲候任商等见西域颇背叛，闻匈奴欲大侵，恐并死，即谋劫略吏卒数百人，共杀戊己校尉刀护，遣人与匈奴南犁汗王南将军相闻。
匈奴南将军二千骑入西域迎良等，良等尽胁略戊己校尉吏士男女二千余人入匈奴。
玄、商留南将军所，良、带径至单于庭，人众别置零吾水上田居。
单于号良、带曰乌桓都将军，留居单于所，数呼与饮食。
西域都护但钦上书言匈奴南将军右伊秩訾将人众冠击诸国。
莽于是大分匈奴为十五单于，遣中郎将蔺苞、副校尉戴级将兵万骑，多赍珍宝至云中塞下，招诱呼韩邪单于诸子，欲以次拜之。
使译出塞诱呼右犁汗王咸、咸子登、助三人，至则胁拜咸为孝单于，赐安车鼓车各一，黄金千手，杂缯千匹，戏戟十；拜助为顺单于，赐黄金五百斤；传送助、登长安。
莽封苞为宣威公，拜为虎牙将军；封级为扬威公，拜为虎贲将军。
单于闻之，怒曰： 先单于受汉宣帝恩，不可负他。
今天子非宣帝子孙，何以得立？
遣左骨都侯、右伊秩訾王呼卢訾及左贤王乐将兵入云中益寿塞，大杀吏民。
是岁，建国三年也。
是后，单于历告左右部都尉、诸边王，入塞寇盗，大辈万余，中辈数千，少者数百，杀雁门、朔方太守、都尉，略吏民畜产不可胜数，缘边虚耗。
莽新即位，怙府库之富欲立威，乃拜十二部将率，发郡国勇士，武库精兵，各有所屯守，转委输于边。
议满三十万众，贲三百日粮，同时十道并出，穷追匈奴，内之于丁令，因分其地，立呼韩邪十五子。
莽将严尤谏曰：臣闻匈奴为害，所从来久矣，未闻上世有必征之者也。
后世三家周、秦、汉征之，然皆未有得上策者也。
周得中策，汉得下策，秦无策焉。
当周宣王时，猃允内侵，至于泾阳，命将征之，尽境而还。
其视戎狄之侵，譬犹蚊虻之螫，驱之而已。
translation: 
At first, the Chanyu refused because Xiahou Fan asked for land from the Xiongnu. Later, because he failed to collect taxes from Wuhuan, he invaded and plundered Wuhuan's tribes. This conflict arose, and the seal was changed, so he was very resentful.
So he sent a dozen people including You Da Qie Qu Pu Hulu Zi to lead 10,000 cavalry to garrison under the Shuofang border fortress in the name of escorting Wuhuan's prisoners.
The prefect Shuofang reported the matter to the court.
In the second year, King Xuzhili, the queen of Cheshi in the Western Regions, attempted to surrender to the Huns, but Danqin, the governor of the Western Region, had him executed.
Zhili's elder brother Hulanzhi led more than 2,000 people, driving livestock, and the whole country fled and surrendered to the Huns, and the Chanyu accepted it.
The Hulanzhi invaded with the Xiongnu, attacked the chariot division, killed the leader of Houcheng, killed and wounded the guard Sima, and then returned to the Xiongnu.
At that time, Wuji Colonel Shi Chenliang, Zhongdai, Sima Cheng Han Xuan, Youquhou Renshang and others saw that many people in the Western Regions had betrayed the Central Plains, and heard that the Huns were about to invade the Central Plains. They were worried that they would be killed together, so they discussed together and hijacked hundreds of officials and soldiers.
General Nan of the Xiongnu led 2,000 cavalry into the Western Region to meet Chen Liang and others. Chen Liang and others hijacked more than 2,000 men and women, officials and soldiers under Wuji Xiaowei, and brought them to the Xiongnu.
Han Xuan and Ren Shang stayed with General Nan, while Chen Liang and Zhen took them directly to the court of Shan Yu. The people they brought were placed at the Lingwu River to farm.
The Chanyu gave them the names Chen Liang and Zhongdai, and called them General Wuhuandu. He kept them in the court of the Chanyu and invited them to drink and dine many times.
Danqin, the Protector of the Western Regions, wrote to the court, reporting that the Xiongnu's Southern General Youyi Zhizi led his troops to invade the Western Regions.
So Wang Mang greatly increased the number of Xiongnu chanyu titles to fifteen, and sent 10,000 cavalry led by Zhonglang General Lin Bao and deputy captain Dai Jie to the border fortress of Yunzhong County with many pearls and treasures. He lured several sons of Huhanxie Shanyu by seduction, hoping to make them chanyus one by one.
He sent an interpreter outside the border fortress to lure King Xian of Youli Khan, his sons Deng and Zhu, and three others. After arriving, he was forced to accept the title of Xiao Chanyu, and was rewarded with an An chariot and a drum chariot, one thousand catties of gold, one thousand pieces of miscellaneous silk, and ten halberds with flags.
Wang Mang also granted Lin Bao the title of Duke Xuanwei and appointed him General Huya; he conferred the rank of Dai to Duke Yangwei and appointed him General Huben.
When the Chanyu heard these things, he said angrily: "The Chanyu has been favored by Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty, but he cannot bear the responsibility to the Han Dynasty."
The current emperor is not a descendant of Emperor Xuan, how can he become the emperor?
He sent Zuo Guduhou, Youyi Zhizi King Huluzi and Zuoxian Wangle to lead troops to invade Yishousai in Yunzhong County and killed many officials and people.
This year is the third year since the founding of the People's Republic of China.
After that, the Chanyu repeatedly sent the left and right captains and the feudal kings on the frontier to invade the frontier to kill and plunder. The large-scale ones had more than 10,000 people, the medium-scale ones had thousands of people, and the smaller ones had hundreds of people. They killed the prefects and captains of Yanmen and Shuofang, and plundered countless officials, people, livestock and property, so the frontier fortress was greatly weakened.
Wang Mang had just become emperor and wanted to rely on the wealth of the national treasury to establish his own prestige, so he appointed twelve generals, dispatched warriors from various counties and counties, took out the sophisticated weapons from the arsenal, and ordered them to station in one side and gradually transport them to the frontier.
The plan was to wait for the number of 300,000 people, bring enough food for three hundred days, attack in ten groups at the same time, chase and beat the Xiongnu, drive them to Dingling, divide the territory of the Xiongnu, and establish Hu Hanxie's fifteen sons as chanyus.
Wang Mang's general Yan You advised him and said: I heard that the Huns were harming the Central Plains. It has been a long time since the beginning. I have never heard that the previous generation must go to conquer.
Later Zhou, Qin, and Mo dynasties went on conquests, but none of them could be said to have superior strategies.
It can be said that the Zhou Dynasty had the right strategy, the Han Dynasty had the wrong strategy, and the Qin Dynasty had no strategy at all.
During the reign of King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty, Mi Yun invaded the interior and reached Jingyang. King Xuan of Zhou sent generals to conquer the area and returned after reaching the border.
The Zhou Dynasty treated the invasion of Rong and Di as if they were biting mosquitoes and flies, they just drove them away.

summary:
summary line 6: During the reign of Wuzhuliu Chanyu, Han envoy Xiahou Fan requested land from the Xiongnu, but the chanyu refused, citing ancestral rights. The Han emperor punished Xiahou Fan. Later, conflicts arose over Wusun raids and Wuhuan tax issues. Wang Mang, after usurping the Han throne, changed the Xiongnu seal and imposed new regulations, causing resentment. The Xiongnu resumed border raids. Wang Mang's military campaigns failed, leading to chaos. The Xiongnu chanyu died, and his successor Xian sought peace with Han but continued raiding. Wang Mang's attempts to control the Xiongnu through titles and gifts ultimately failed, and the border remained unstable.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
赐雄帛五十匹，黄金十斤。
单于未发，会病，复遣使愿朝明年。
故事，单于朝，从名王以下及从者二百余人。
单于又上书言： 蒙天子神灵，人民盛壮，愿从五百人入朝，以明天子盛德。
上皆许之。
元寿二年，单于来朝，上以太岁厌胜所在，舍之上林苑蒲陶宫。
告之以加敬于单于，单于知之。
加赐衣三百七十袭，锦绣缯帛三万匹，絮三万斤，它如河平时。
既罢，遣中郎将韩况送单于。
单于出塞，到休屯井，北度车田卢水，道里回远。
况等乏食，单于乃给其粮，失期不还五十余日。
初，上遣稽留昆随单于去，到国，复遣稽留昆同母兄右大且方与妇入待。
还归，复遣且方同母兄左日逐王都与妇人侍。
是时，汉平帝幼，太皇太后称制，新都侯王莽秉政，欲说太后以威德至盛异于前，乃风单于令遣王昭君女须卜居次云入侍太后，所以常赐之甚厚。
会西域车师后王姑句、去胡来王唐兜皆怨恨都护校尉，将妻子人民亡降匈奴，语在《西域传》。
单于受置左谷蠡地，遣使上书言状曰： 臣谨已受。
诏遣中郎将韩隆、王昌、副校尉甄阜、侍中谒者帛敞、长水校尉王歙使匈奴，告单于曰： 西域内属，不当得受，今遣之。
单于曰： 孝宣、孝元皇帝哀怜，为作约束，自长城以南天子有之，长城以北单于有之。
有犯塞，辄以状闻；有降者，不得受。
臣知父呼韩邪单于蒙无量之恩，死遗言曰： 有从中国来降者，勿受，辄送至塞，以报天子厚恩。 此外国也，得受之。
使者曰： 匈奴骨肉相攻，国几绝，蒙中国大恩，危亡复续，妻子完安，累世相继，宜有以报厚恩。
单于叩头谢罪，执二虏还付使者。
诏使中郎将王萌待西域恶都奴界上逆受。
单于遣使送到国，因请其罪。
使者以闻，有诏不听，会西域诸国王斩以示之。
translation: 
Yang Xiong was rewarded with fifty pieces of silk and ten pounds of gold.
It happened that Chanyu fell ill before he set out, so he sent an envoy to say that he hoped to come to the court next year to see him.
According to the old rules in the past, when Chanyu came to worship, more than 200 people from the title of king to the following and his attendants were allowed to follow him into the court.
The Chanyu wrote to the emperor again, saying: Thanks to the blessing of the emperor's spirit, the Xiongnu people are strong and numerous. I hope that I can be allowed to bring 500 people to meet the emperor to show his great kindness.
The emperor all agreed to Shan Yu's request.
In the second year of Yuanshou, Shanyu came to the Han Dynasty to meet him. The emperor let Shanyu live in Putao Palace in Shanglinyuan because Tai Sui, who brought bad omens, and Weisheng, who could curse people, were there.
He also sent someone to inform Shanyu that this was a sign of extra respect for him, and Shanyu understood.
This time when Chanyu came to court, the emperor's additional rewards included 370 sets of clothes, 30,000 pieces of brocade silk, and 30,000 jins of thick silk and cotton. Other rewards were the same as during the Heping period.
After the first month of the dynasty, the Han Dynasty sent Zhonglang to escort Han Kuang back to the Xiongnu.
Shanyu left the frontier fortress, arrived at Xiutunjing, and crossed Chetianlu River to the north. The road was long and winding.
Han Kuang and others were short of food, so the Chanyu provided them with food. Han Kuang and others came back more than fifty days after the deadline.
At first, the emperor sent Jiliu Kun to follow Shan Yu back. After Shan Yu returned to the royal court, he sent Ji Liu Kun, his uncle You Daqifang and his wife to serve the emperor.
After returning from this pilgrimage, he sent his half-brother Zuo Yue, Daqifang on the right, to Zhuwangdu and his wife to serve in the court.
At this time, Emperor Ping of the Han Dynasty was young, the Empress Dowager came to the court to take the throne, and Wang Mang, the new capital lord, presided over the affairs of the court. Wang Mang wanted to please the Empress Dowager by praising her great virtue, so he asked Shanyu to tell Shan Yu from the side that he should send Wang Zhaojun's daughter Xubu Juciyun to the court to serve the Empress Dowager, and the rewards were very generous.
It happened that at this time, Wang Jugu, the queen of chariots in the Western Regions, and Tangdou, the king of Hu Lai, both resented the captain of the military guard. They led their wives and children to escape and surrendered to the Huns. The incident was recorded in "Biography of the Western Regions".
The Chanyu accepted the surrendered people, placed them in Zuoguli, and sent an envoy to the Han Dynasty to report the situation and said: I have accepted them all.
The imperial edict sent the lieutenant generals Han Long and Wang Chang, the deputy captain Zhen Fu, the minister's visitor Bo Chang, and the Changshui captain Wang She as envoys to the Xiongnu, telling the Shanyu: The Western Region is under the jurisdiction of the Han Dynasty, and the Shanyu should not accept surrendered people. I want you to release them.
Shanyu said: Emperor Xiaoxuan and Emperor Xiaoyuan took pity on us and made an agreement with us that the area south of the Great Wall would belong to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty, and the area north of the Great Wall would belong to Shanyu.
If someone invades the frontier fortress, they must inform each other of the situation; if someone comes to surrender, they must not accept it.
My father, Huhanxie Shanyu, received immeasurable kindness from the Han Dynasty. Before he died, he left a message: If there are people who surrender from the Central Plains, they are not allowed to accept it. They must be sent back to the frontier fortress and returned to the Han Dynasty to repay the kindness of Emperor Mo. But this time the people who surrendered are from countries other than the Great Wall, I can accept it.
The envoy of the Han Dynasty said: At the beginning, the Xiongnu's relatives attacked each other, and the country was almost completely reduced. Thanks to China's great kindness, it supported the Chanyu, so that the Xiongnu who were in danger could continue to survive, and their families, wives and children could be kept safe. From generation to generation, the Xiongnu should repay the great kindness to the Han Dynasty.
After hearing this, the Shan Yu kowtowed to the envoy to apologize, and captured the two princes who had surrendered and handed them over to the Han Dynasty envoy.
The Han Dynasty issued an edict to send Zhonglang General Wang Meng to the border of Badunu in the Western Regions to meet and accept the returned people.
Chanyu sent an envoy to escort him to the Han Dynasty and asked the emperor for forgiveness.
The envoy reported to the court, but the court issued an edict not to forgive them, and gathered the kings of the Western Regions to kill Gou Gu and Tang Dou to show their guilt.

summary:
summary line 7: After Wang Mang's death, the Han Dynasty restored relations with the Xiongnu, but the chanyu remained arrogant. The historian concludes that peace treaties and military campaigns both had limitations, and the Xiongnu's nature made lasting peace difficult.

