Summary line 0
Span: 0-42 (score=0.4887)

original:
古之儒者，博学乎《六艺》之文。
《六艺》者，王教之典籍，先圣所以明天道，正人伦，致至治之成法也。
周道既衰，坏于幽、厉，礼乐征伐自诸侯出，陵夷二百余年而孔子兴，衷圣德遭季世，知言之不用而道不行，乃叹曰： 凤鸟不至，河不出图，吾已矣夫！
文王既没，文不在兹乎？
于是应聘诸侯，以答礼行谊。
西入周，南至楚，畏匡厄陈，奸七十余君。
适齐闻《韶》，三月不知肉味；自卫反鲁，然后乐正，《雅》、《颂》各得其所。
究观古今篇籍，乃称曰： 大哉，尧之为君也！
唯天为大，唯尧则之。
巍巍乎其有成功也，焕乎其有文章！ 又曰： 周监于二代，郁郁乎文哉！吾从周。 于是叙《书》则断《尧典》，称乐则法《韶舞》，论《诗》则首《周南》。
缀周之礼，因鲁《春秋》，举十二公行事，绳之以文、武之道，成一王法，至获麟而止。
盖晚而好《易》，读之韦编三绝，而为之传。
皆因近圣之事，以立先王之教，故曰： 述而不作，信而好古 ； 下学而上达，知我者其天乎！
仲尼既没，七十子之徒散游诸侯，大者为卿相师傅，小者友教士大夫，或隐而不见。
故子张居陈，澹台子羽居楚，子夏居西河，子贡终于齐。
如田子方、段干木、吴起、禽滑氂之属，皆受业于子夏之伦，为王者师。
是时，独魏文侯好学。
天下并争于战国，儒术既黜焉，然齐鲁之间学者犹弗废，至于威、宣之际，孟子、孙卿之列咸遵夫子之业而润色之，以学显于当世。
及至秦始皇兼天下，燔《诗》、《书》，杀术士，六学从此缺矣。
陈涉之王也，鲁诸儒持孔氏礼器往归之，于是孔甲为涉博士，卒与俱死。
陈涉起匹夫，驱適戍以立号，不满岁而灭亡，其事至微浅，然而搢绅先生负礼器往委质为臣者何也？
以秦禁其业，积怨而发愤于陈王也。
及高皇帝诛项籍，引兵围鲁，鲁中诸儒尚讲诵习礼，弦歌之音不绝，岂非圣人遗化好学之国哉？
于是诸儒始得修其经学，讲习大射乡饮之礼。
叔孙通作汉礼仪，因为奉常，诸弟子共定者，咸为选首，然后喟然兴于学。
然尚有干戈，平定四海，亦未皇庠序之事也。
孝惠、高后时，公卿皆武力功臣。
孝文时颇登用，然孝文本好刑名之言。
及至孝景，不任儒，窦太后又好黄、老术，故诸博士具官待问，未有进者。
汉兴，言《易》自淄川田生；言《书》自济南伏生；言《诗》，于鲁则申培公，于齐则辕固生，燕则韩太傅；言《礼》，则鲁高堂生；言《春秋》，于齐则胡毋生，于赵则董仲舒。
及窦太后崩，武安君田蚡为丞相，黜黄老、刑名百家之言，延文学儒者以百数，而公孙弘以治《春秋》为丞相，封侯，天下学士靡然乡风矣。
弘为学官，悼道之郁滞，乃请曰： 丞相、御史言：制曰 盖闻导民以礼，风之以乐。
婚姻者，居室之大伦也。
今礼废乐崩，朕甚愍焉，故详延天下方闻之士，咸登诸朝。
其令礼官劝学，讲议洽闻，举遗兴礼，以为天下先。
太常议，予博士弟子，崇乡里之化，以厉贤材焉。
谨与太常臧、博士平等议，曰：闻三代之道，乡里有教，夏曰校，殷曰庠，周曰序。
其劝善也，显之朝廷；其惩恶也，加之刑罚。
故教化之行也，建首善自京师始，由内及外。
今陛下昭至德，开大明，配天地，本人伦，劝学兴礼，崇化厉贤，以风四方，太平之原也。
古者政教未洽，不备其礼，请因旧官而兴焉。
为博士官置弟子五十人，复其身。
太常择民年十八以上、仪状端正者，补博士弟子。

translation:
Ancient Confucians studied extensively the articles in the "Six Arts".
"Six Arts" is a classic of the Wang Sect. It was used by the sages to clarify the Tao, correct human relations, and achieve great governance for the world.
Zhou Dao was in decline, bad at the time of Youli, and the conquests of ritual and music came from the princes. Confucius rose up after the decline for more than two hundred years. Because of his saintly virtue, he encountered the end of time, wise words were not used, and the road was impassable, so he sighed: The phoenix and the bird will not come, and the river will not flow out of the map. Let me forget it!
King Wen is dead, doesn't this matter about the article?
So he applied for a job among the princes to pay courtesy and do justice.
He entered the Zhou Dynasty in the west and Chu in the south. He was frightened by Kuang and was short of food at Chen. He went to pay homage to more than seventy kings.
When we all heard the music of "Shao", we didn't know the taste of meat in March. After returning from Wei to Lu, the music was revised, and "Ya" and "Song" each found their place.
After exploring ancient and modern books, he praised: Yao was so great as a monarch!
Only Heaven is the greatest, and Yao imitated it.
How high his achievements are, and how beautiful his rituals and music are! He also said: Zhou pursues the second generation and his articles are prosperous. I agree with Zhou. Therefore, the entire review of "Books" begins with "Yao Dian", "Shao Wu" is used as the method for describing music, and "Zhou Nan" is used as the starting point for discussing "Poetry".
Connected with the Zhou rites and following Lu's "Spring and Autumn", the actions of the twelve princes were listed, using the civil and military methods as the standard, and became a unified king's law until Huolin.
In his later years, he liked "Yi". He read "Yi" so many times that the belt connecting the bamboo slips was broken several times, so he wrote a biography for it.
They all use the events of modern saint kings to establish the teachings of the previous kings. Therefore, it is said: inheritance without innovation, integrity but love of the past; study personnel at the bottom, and reach destiny at the top. It is probably God who knows me!
After the death of Confucius, the seventy disciples scattered among the princes. Those with higher positions became masters of ministers and ministers, while those with lower positions became mentors and friends of scholar-bureaucrats. Some of them retired from the world and became invisible.
Therefore, it is urgent to go up quickly. Tantai Ziyu is in Chu, Wang Xia is in Luohe, and Zigong died in Qi.
For example, Tian Zifang, Duan Qianmu, Wu Qi, Qin Hua Ya, etc. were all trained by Zixia's generation and became the king's teachers.
At this time, only Wei Wenhou was eager to learn.
During the Warring States Period, the world was in strife and Confucianism was denounced. However, scholars in the Qilu area did not abandon the great way. At the time of Wei and Xuan, Mencius, Sun Qing, etc. all followed the great cause of Confucius and polished it, and became famous for their knowledge in the world.
When Qin Shihuang annexed the world, burned "Poems" and "Books", and killed magicians, the Six Studies were incomplete from then on.
When Chen She became king, the Confucian scholars of Lu State took Kong's ritual vessels and went to him, so Kong Jia became Chen She's doctor and eventually died with him.
Chen She rose up from a common man, banished him to the garrison, established his own country, and perished in less than a year. This is a very trivial matter, but Mr. Luo Shen carried ritual utensils and was appointed as a minister. Why?
Because Qin banned this enterprise, he was angry and relied on King Chen to vent his anger.
When Emperor Gao killed Xiang Ji and led his troops to besiege Lu, the Confucian scholars in Lu were still reciting rituals and singing string songs. Isn't it a country that the saints sent to learn and love to learn?
Then the Confucian scholars began to study the classics and taught the rituals of shooting and drinking in the countryside.
Shusun Tong created Han rituals and became a regular official. Those who participated in the formulation of the rituals among his disciples became the first choice, and then scholarship flourished.
However, there were still wars going on, and there was no time to establish the order to pacify the world.
During the reign of Xiaohui and Gaohou, the ministers were all heroes of military force.
Xiaowen made some progress in it, but Xiaowen originally liked the study of punishment and naming.
When he arrived at Xiaojing, Confucian scholars were not allowed to be employed. Empress Dowager Dou also liked Huang Lao's skills, so the doctors were waiting for official inquiries, but none of them were used.
When the Han Dynasty arose, Tiansheng from Zichuan taught "Yi"; Fusheng from Jinan taught "Book"; when it came to "Poetry", it was Shen Peigong in Lu, Yuan Gusheng in Qi, and Taifu Han in Yan; it was Lu Gaotang who taught "Li"; it was Hu Wusheng in Qi who taught "Spring and Autumn", and Dong Zhongshu in Zhao.
When the Empress Dowager Bao died, Wu'an Juntian Ju became the prime minister, rejecting the opinions of Huang Lao and Xing Ming, and employing hundreds of literary Confucian scholars. Gongsun Hong became the prime minister and made a marquis because of his study of "Spring and Autumn", and scholars all over the world followed suit.
Gongsun Hong, an academic official, was saddened by the decline of the Dao, so he wrote: The Prime Minister and the Censor said: "I heard that the people should be guided by etiquette and educated by music."
Marriage is the most important thing in the family.
Now that the rites and music have collapsed, I am very sad, so I have appointed all the wise and knowledgeable people in the world to serve in the imperial court.
The etiquette officials should be ordered to encourage learning, explain the meaning of scriptures, gain extensive knowledge, encourage people to relax, promote etiquette, and set an example for the world.
Taichang suggested that disciples should be awarded Ph.D.s and should be educated in the countryside to encourage talented people.
I would like to discuss this with Taichang Zang and Dr. Taichang on an equal footing: I heard that according to the Three Dynasties, there is a place for education in the countryside. Xia is called the school, Yin is called Xiang, and Zhou is called Xu.
Encourage good deeds and make them visible to the court; punish evil deeds and impose punishments.
Therefore, the implementation of education and the establishment of good deeds start from the capital, from the inside to the outside.
Now, Your Majesty has shown great virtue, opened up the Ming Dynasty, coordinated the heaven and the earth, based on human relations, encouraged learning and propriety, advocated enlightenment, encouraged talents, and educated the four directions. This is the origin of peace.
In ancient times, politics and religion were not widespread, and rituals were incomplete. Please use the old academic officials to raise it.
Fifty disciples were appointed for the doctorate officers to exempt them from corvee service.
Too often, people over the age of eighteen and well-groomed are chosen to supplement their Ph.D. disciples.

summary:
The history and transmission of Confucian classics from ancient times through the Han dynasty. Ancient Confucians studied the "Six Arts," a classic of the Wang Sect used by sages to clarify the Tao, correct human relations, and achieve governance. During the decline of Zhou Dao, Confucius emerged after more than two hundred years. Due to his saintly virtue but encountering difficult times, he sighed about the phoenix not coming and the river not flowing out the map. He traveled among princes, entering Zhou in the west and Chu in the south, facing hardships like being frightened in Kuang and short of food in Chen. He revised music after returning from Wei to Lu, ensuring "Ya" and "Song" found their places. He explored ancient and modern books, praising Yao and Zhou, and reviewed the "Books," "Shao Wu," and "Zhou Nan." He connected Zhou rites with Lu's "Spring and Autumn," listing actions of twelve princes using civil and military methods as standards. In his later years, he liked "Yi," reading it so much that the bamboo slip bindings broke several times, and he wrote a biography for it. After Confucius's death, his seventy disciples scattered among princes, with some becoming masters and others mentors. During the Warring States period, Confucianism was denounced, but scholars in Qilu did not abandon the great way. Mencius and Sun Qing followed Confucius's cause and became famous. When Qin Shihuang burned "Poems" and "Books" and killed magicians, the Six Studies became incomplete. When Chen She became king, Confucian scholars from Lu took Kong's ritual vessels to him, and Kong Jia became his doctor, dying with him. Emperor Gao besieged Lu, but Confucian scholars there still recited rituals and sang. Then Confucian scholars began studying classics and teaching rituals. Shusun Tong created Han rituals, and scholarship flourished. During Xiaohui and Gaohou, ministers were military heroes. Xiaowen liked punishment and naming studies. Xiaojing did not employ Confucian scholars, and Empress Dowager Dou liked Huang Lao's skills. When the Han dynasty arose, various scholars taught different classics: Tiansheng taught "Yi," Fusheng taught "Book," Shen Peigong taught "Poetry" in Lu, Yuan Gusheng in Qi, and Taifu Han in Yan. Lu Gaotang taught "Li," and Hu Wusheng and Dong Zhongshu taught "Spring and Autumn." After Empress Dowager Bao died, Wu'an Hou Tian Ju became prime minister, rejecting Huang Lao and Xing Ming, and employing literary Confucian scholars. Gongsun Hong became prime minister due to his study of "Spring and Autumn," and scholars followed. Gongsun Hong, an academic official, wrote about guiding people with etiquette and educating with music. He proposed establishing education in the countryside, with schools in Xia, Yin, and Zhou. He suggested appointing fifty disciples for doctorate officers, exempting them from corvee. County magistrates should choose those who love literature and classics, respect superiors, and obey rules. After a year, those specializing in one subject and learning more arts could become doctors. Those not proficient would be exempted. The edict was issued, and from then on, many officials were virtuous and literary. During Emperor Zhao's reign, virtuous literature was recommended, and doctoral disciples increased. At the end of Xuanlong's reign, the number doubled. Gencha liked Confucianism, and those mastering classics were exempted from corvee. Later, due to insufficient funds, the number was changed to 1,000, and counties established "Hundred Stones" History of the Five Classics. In Emperor Cheng's last years, some said Confucius raised 3,000 disciples, so the emperor increased disciples to 3,000, but the old system was restored after a year. When Wang Mang was in power during Emperor Ping's reign, children of Yuanshi could receive careers as disciples without quota. Forty in the first class served as doctors, twenty as prince's family, and forty made up for literary stories. The text then details the transmission of "Yi" from Confucius through various scholars, including Tian He, Ding Kuan, and others, leading to schools like Shi, Meng, and Liangqiu. It describes how "Yi" was the only book not banned during Qin, so it was continuously passed on. After the Han rise, Tian He moved to Duling and passed on the teachings. Ding Kuan, a native of Liang, studied with Dan Bao and later taught Wang Se, leading to the Shi, Mencius, and Liangqiu schools. Shi Yu, a native of Pei, studied with Tian Wangsun and became a doctor, teaching Zhang Yu and Lu Bo. Meng Xi, from Lanling, studied with Tian Wangsun and claimed to have received the Book of Yin and Yang Catastrophes, but Liangqiu He argued against his falsehood. Jingfang studied from Jiao Yanshou, but his theory was different from others. Fei Zhi studied "Yi" and used ten classical texts to explain it. Gao Xiang studied with Fei Gong and focused on yin and yang disasters. The text also covers the transmission of "Book" from Fu Sheng, who taught Zhang Sheng and Ouyang Sheng. Ouyang Sheng's learning passed through Ni Kuan to Ouyang Gao and others. Xiahou Sheng and Xiahou Jian developed the great and small Xiahou schools. Zhou Kan taught Mou Qing and Xu Shang, leading to the Kong and Xu schools. Zhang Shan taught Li Xun, Zheng Kuanzhong, and others, forming the Zheng, Zhang, Qin, Jiu, and Li schools. Kong Anguo had an ancient text of "Book," but it was not established as an academic official. The text describes the transmission of "Poetry" from Shen Gong, who taught Wang Zang and Zhao Wan. Yuan Gu argued with Huang Sheng about Tang and Wu's mandate. Han Ying wrote "Nei Zhuan" and "Wai Zhuan" for "Poetry." Mao Gong taught "Poetry" to Guandan Qing and others. For "Li," Lu Gaotangsheng taught seventeen chapters, and Xu Sheng taught his grandsons. Meng Qing taught Houcang, who passed on to Dai De and Dai Sheng, forming the Da Dai, Xiao Dai, and Qing schools. Hu's mother taught "Gongyang Chunqiu," and Dong Zhongshu also taught it. Yan Pengzu and Yan Anle developed the Yan and Yan schools. The text describes the rise of "Guliang Chunqiu" during Emperor Xuan's reign, with Rong Guang and others debating with the Gongyang school. Finally, it mentions the transmission of "Zuo Shi Chunqiu" by Zhang Cang, Jia Yi, and others, with Liu Xin advocating for its establishment. The praise notes that from Emperor Wu's establishment of the Doctorate of the Five Classics, scholarship increased, with branches multiplying. Initially, only Ouyang, Hou, Yang, and Gongyang were established. During Xiaoxuan, Daxiahou Shangshu, Daxiao Daili, Shi, Mencius, Liangqiu Yi, and Guliang Chunqiu were added. In Emperor Yuan's reign, Jingshi Yi was established. During Emperor Ping's reign, Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals, Mao's Poems, Yi's Rites, and the Ancient Chinese Book of Documents were also established to collect lost texts.

================================================================================

