Chunk 0: 
original: 
太公望吕尚者，东海上人。
其先祖尝为四岳，佐禹平水土甚有功。
虞夏之际封于吕，或封于申，姓姜氏。
夏商之时，申、吕或封枝庶子孙，或为庶人，尚其后苗裔也。
本姓姜氏，从其封姓，故曰吕尚。
吕尚盖尝穷困，年老矣，以渔钓奸周西伯。
西伯将出猎，卜之，曰 所获非龙非彨，非虎非罴，所获霸王之辅 。
于是周西伯猎，果遇太公于渭之阳，与语大说，曰： 自吾先君太公曰 当有圣人适周，周以兴 。
子真是邪？
吾太公望子久矣。
故号之曰 太公望 ，载与俱归，立为师。
或曰：太公博闻，尝事纣。
纣无道，去之。
游说诸侯，无所遇，而卒西归周西伯。
或曰，吕尚处士，隐海滨。
translation: 
Taigong looked at Lu Shang, who was from the East China Sea.
His ancestors once served as officials in the Four Mountains, assisting Xia Yu in water management and made great contributions.
Shun and Yu were granted the title of Lu, and some were granted the title of Shen, with the surname Jiang.
During the Xia and Shang dynasties, some places in Shen and Lu were granted to descendants of other branches, and some descendants became commoners. Lu Shang is their descendant.
Lu Shang's original surname was Jiang. Because he took the name of his fiefdom, he was called Lu Shang.
Lu Shang was once very famous. When he was old, he took the opportunity of fishing to ask to see Zhou Xibo.
Before going out hunting, Xibo made a divination, and the hexagram said: The prey obtained is neither a dragon nor a chi, nor a tiger nor a bear; what he obtains is the assistant minister who will become the overlord.
So Xibohou went out hunting, and sure enough he met Taigong on the north bank of the Wei River. After talking with Taigong, Xibo was overjoyed and said: I have long heard the Taigong, the ancestor of our country, say: A saint will definitely come to Zhou, and Zhou will prosper.
That's you, right?
Our grandpa has been waiting for you for a long time.
So he called Lu Shang "Tai Gong Wang", and the two of them rode back together and respected him as military advisor.
Some people say that Taigong was very knowledgeable and once assisted King Zhou of Shang Dynasty.
Because King Zhou was unruly, Taigong left.
He went around lobbying the princes of various countries, but failed to find a king, so he finally went west to join Zhou Xibo.
Some people say that Lu Shang was a scholar who lived in seclusion by the sea.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
周西伯拘羑里，散宜生、闳夭素知而招吕尚。
吕尚亦曰 吾闻西伯贤，又善养老，盍往焉 。
三人者为西伯求美女奇物，献之于纣，以赎西伯。
西伯得以出，反国。
言吕尚所以事周虽异，然要之为文武师。
周西伯昌之脱羑里归，与吕尚阴谋修德以倾商政，其事多兵权与奇计，故后世之言兵及周之阴权皆宗太公为本谋。
周西伯政平，及断虞芮之讼，而诗人称西伯受命曰文王。
伐崇、密须、犬夷，大作丰邑。
天下三分，其二归周者，太公之谋计居多。
文王崩，武王即位。
九年，欲修文王业，东伐以观诸侯集否。
translation: 
When Zhou Xibo was imprisoned in Youli by King Zhou, Xibo's ministers San Yisheng and Hong Yao knew about Lu Shang, so they asked him to come out.
Lu Shang also said this: I heard that Xibo was virtuous and always respected and cared for the elderly. Why not go there?
In order to rescue Uncle Xi, these three people searched for beautiful women and rare treasures, and presented them to King Zhou to redeem Uncle Xi.
As a result, Xibo was released and returned to Zhou.
Although there are different legends about Lu Shang's return to the Zhou Dynasty, the general consensus is that he was the teacher and assistant minister of King Wen and King Wu.
After Zhou Xibochang escaped from Youli and returned to the country, he and Lu Shang secretly planned how to implement virtue and overthrow the rule of the Shang Dynasty. Many of them were military tactics and cunning tactics. Therefore, future generations who talked about military tactics and the secret power of the Zhou Dynasty all respected the basic strategies of the Grand Duke.
Zhou Xibo was upright and peaceful. Especially after the territorial dispute between the Yu and Rui kingdoms, he was praised as King Wen who was destined to receive the destiny.
Xibo also conquered Chongguo, Mixu and Quanyi, and built Fengyi on a large scale.
Two-thirds of the princes in the world turned their hearts to the Zhou Dynasty, which was mostly the result of the Taigong's planning.
After King Wen died, King Wu came to the throne.
In the ninth year, King Wu wanted to continue to complete King Wen's great cause and campaigned eastward against Shang Zhou to see if the princes gathered to respond.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
师行，师尚父左杖黄钺，右把白旄以誓，曰： 苍兕ì苍兕，总尔众庶，与尔舟楫，后至者斩！
遂至盟津。
诸侯不期而会者八百诸侯。诸侯皆曰： 纣可伐也。 武王曰： 未可。
还师，与太公作此《太誓》。
居二年，纣杀王子比干，囚箕子。
武王将伐纣，卜龟兆，不吉，风雨暴至。
群公尽惧，唯太公强之劝武王，武王于是遂行。
十一年正月甲子，誓于牧野，伐商纣。
纣师败绩。
纣反走，登鹿台，遂追斩纣。
明日，武王立于社，群公奉明水，卫康叔封布采席，师尚父牵牲，史佚策祝，以告神讨纣之罪。
散鹿台之钱，发钜桥之粟，以振贫民。
封比干墓，释箕子囚。
translation: 
When the army was leaving, Lu Shang, who was respectfully called "Master Shangfu", held a yellow ax in his left hand and a Bingbai jade in his right hand, swearing to be the master, and said: Cang Si Cang Si, command the troops, assemble the ships, and behead those who are late.
So the army arrived at Mengjin.
There were as many as eight hundred princes who came without being summoned. The princes all said: It is time to conquer Shang Zhou. King Wu said: Not yet.
He returned as a teacher and wrote "Tai Oath" with Tai Gong.
Two years later, Shang Zhou killed Prince Bigan and imprisoned Jizi.
King Wu was preparing to conquer the Shang Dynasty again, and a divination revealed that the tortoise sign was unlucky, with a sudden storm coming.
The ministers were frightened, and only Taigong persuaded King Wu to march, so King Wu led his troops to fight.
On the first day of the eleventh year, King Wu swore an oath in Muye to attack Shang Zhou.
Shang Zhou's army collapsed completely.
Shang Zhou turned around and fled, boarding Lutai, whereupon his pursuers killed King Zhou.
The next day, King Wu stood on the social altar, and the ministers held water in their hands. Wei Kangshufeng laid out the colorful mats, and Master Shangfu brought the animals for sacrifice. Shi Yi prayed according to the policy book and reported to the gods about the crusade against the evil Shang Zhou.
Distribute the coins accumulated by Shang Zhou in Lutai and distribute the grain accumulated by Shang Zhou in Juqiao to help the poor.
Build and raise the height of Bigan's tomb, and release the imprisoned Jizi.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
迁九鼎，修周政，与天下更始。
师尚父谋居多。
于是武王已平商而王天下，封师尚父于齐营丘。
东就国，道宿行迟。
逆旅之人曰： 吾闻时难得而易失。
客寝甚安，殆非就国者也。
太公闻之，夜衣而行，犁明至国。
莱侯来伐，与之争营丘。
营丘边莱。
莱人，夷也，会纣之乱而周初定，未能集远方，是以与太公争国。
大公至国，修政，因其俗，简其礼，通商工之业，便鱼盐之利，而人民多归齐，齐为大国。
translation: 
He moved the Jiuding, which symbolizes the highest power in the world, to the Zhou Dynasty, fixed the government affairs of the Zhou Dynasty, and started to create a new era together with the people of the world.
Most of the above-mentioned matters were based on the advice of Master Shangfu.
At this time, King Wu had pacified Shang Zhou and became the king of the world, so he awarded the title of Yingqiu of Qi State to his master Shangfu.
Master Shangfu went east to his own feudal country, living and traveling at a very slow pace.
The people in the guest house said to him: I heard that opportunities are hard to come by but easy to lose.
This guest slept so peacefully, I'm afraid he didn't go to the feudal country to take up his post.
After hearing this, the Grand Duke dressed up overnight and set out on the road, arriving at his own kingdom at dawn.
Just when Laihou led his troops to attack, he wanted to compete with Taigong for the camp.
Yingqiu is adjacent to Laiguo.
The Lai people were a Yi tribe. They took advantage of the chaos of Shang and Zhou and the Zhou Dynasty had just settled down. There was no time to pacify the remote areas, so they competed with Taigong for territory.
After Taigong arrived in his feudal country, he straightened political affairs, followed its customs, simplified etiquette, opened up industry and commerce, and developed the advantages of fishery and salt industry. As a result, more people joined Qi State, and Qi State became a great power.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
及周成王少时，管蔡作乱，淮夷畔周，乃使召康公命太公曰： 东至海，西至河，南至穆陵，北至无棣，五侯九伯，实得征之。
齐由此得征伐，为大国。都营丘。
盖太公之卒百有余年，子丁公吕伋立。
丁公卒，子乙公得立。
乙公卒，子癸公慈母立。
癸公卒，子哀公不辰立。
哀公时，纪侯谮之周，周烹哀公而立其弟静，是为胡公。
胡公徙都薄姑，而当周夷王之时。
哀公之同母少弟山怨胡公，乃与其党率营丘人袭攻杀胡公而自立，是为献公。
献公元年，尽逐胡公子，因徙薄姑都，治临菑。
九年，献公卒，子武公寿立。
武公九年，周厉王出奔，居彘。
十年，王室乱，大臣行政，号曰 共和 。
二十四年，周宣王初立。
translation: 
When King Cheng of Zhou came to the throne at a young age, Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai rebelled, and Huaiyi also rebelled against the Zhou Dynasty. King Cheng sent Zhao Kanggong and ordered Tai Gong to say: From the sea in the east, to the Yellow River in the west, to Muling in the south, and to Wudi in the north, the five-level princes here are guarded by local officials. If there is any crime, I order you to attack.
Therefore, Qi can conquer other countries and form a great country, with its capital at Yingqiu.
Taigong was already more than a hundred years old when he died, and his son Dinggong Lu Ji succeeded to the throne.
When Ding Gong died, his son Yi Gong succeeded him.
When Duke Yi died, his son Gui Gong and his loving mother succeeded him.
When Duke Gui passed away, his son Aigong Buchen succeeded him.
When Duke Ai was in power, the Marquis of Ji framed Duke Ai to the king of Zhou. The king of Zhou boiled Duke Ai to death in a big cauldron, and appointed Duke Ai's younger brother Jing as the king of Qi, namely Duke Hu.
Duke Hu moved the capital to Bogu during the reign of King Zhou Yi.
Shan, the younger brother of Duke Ai, resented Duke Hu, so he and his followers led the people from Yingqiu to attack and kill Duke Hu, and established themselves as Duke Xian of Qi.
In the first year of Xian's reign, they all expelled Hu Gong's disciples and took the opportunity to move the capital from Bogu to Linzi.
In the ninth year, Duke Xian died and his son, Duke Wu, succeeded him.
In the ninth year of Duke Wu, King Li of Zhou fled and lived in Sheyi.
Ten years later, the Zhou royal family was in chaos, and the ministers presided over the state affairs, which was known as the "Republic".
In the twenty-fourth year, King Zhou Xuan ascended the throne.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
二十六年，武公卒，子厉公无忌立。
厉公暴虐，故胡公子复入齐，齐人欲立之，乃与攻杀厉公。
胡公子亦战死。
齐人乃立厉公子赤为君，是为文公，而诛杀厉公者七十人。
文公十二年卒，子成公脱立。
成公九年卒，子庄公购立。
庄公二十四年，犬戎杀幽王，周东徙雒。
秦始列为诸侯。
五十六年，晋弑其君昭侯。
六十四年，庄公卒，子厘公禄甫立。
厘公九年，鲁隐公初立。
十九年，鲁桓公弑其兄隐公而自立为君。
二十五年，北戎伐齐。
郑使太子忽来救齐，齐欲妻之。
忽曰： 郑小齐大，非我敌。
遂辞之。
三十二年，厘公同母弟夷仲年死。
其子曰公孙无知，厘公爱之，令其秩服奉养比太子。
三十三年，厘公卒，太子诸儿立，是为襄公。
translation: 
In the twenty-sixth year, Duke Wu died and his son Li Gong Wuji succeeded him.
Duke Li was ruthless and wreaking havoc, so Duke Hu's son returned to Qi. The people of Qi wanted to make Duke Hu's son their king, so they attacked and killed Duke Li together.
Hu Gong's son also died in the battle.
The people of Qi then appointed Chi, the son of Duke Li, as Duke Wen of Qi. He killed more than seventy people who attacked and killed Duke Li.
Duke Wen died in the 12th year, and his son Cheng Gongtu succeeded to the throne.
Chenggong died in the ninth year, and his son Zhuang Gonggu succeeded to the throne.
In the twenty-fourth year of Duke Zhuang, Quan Rong killed King You, and the Zhou royal family moved its capital eastward to Luoyi.
Qin began to rank among its princes.
In the fifty-sixth year, the Jin people killed their king, Jin Zhaohou.
In the sixty-fourth year, Duke Zhuang died and his son Li Gong Lufu succeeded him.
In the ninth year of Duke Li, Duke Yin of Lu came to the throne.
In the 19th year, Duke Huan of Lu killed his brother Yin Gong and established himself as Lord of Lu.
In the twenty-fifth year, Beirong attacked Qi.
The prince of Zheng suddenly came to rescue Qi, and the Marquis of Qi wanted to marry his daughter to him.
The prince suddenly said: Zheng is small and Qi is big, I am not worthy of your daughter.
I declined.
In the thirty-second year, Li Gong's brother Yi Zhongnian passed away.
His son's name was Gongsun Wuzhi. Li Gong doted on him and gave him the same level of care, clothing, life and treatment as the prince.
In the thirty-third year, Li Gong died, and the prince's sons came to the throne, namely Xianggong.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
襄公元年，始为太子时，尝与无知斗，及立，绌无知秩服，无知怨。
四年，鲁桓公与夫人如齐。
齐襄公故尝私通鲁夫人。
鲁夫人者，襄公女弟也，自厘公时嫁为鲁桓公妇，及桓公来而襄公复通焉。
鲁桓公知之，怒夫人，夫人以告齐襄公。
齐襄公与鲁君饮，醉之，使力士彭生抱上鲁君车，因拉杀鲁桓公，桓公下车则死矣。
鲁人以为让，而齐襄公杀彭生以谢鲁。
八年，伐纪，纪迁去其邑。
十二年，初，襄公使连称、管至父戍葵丘，瓜时而往，及瓜而代。
往戍一岁，卒瓜时而公弗为发代。
或为请代，公弗许。
故此二人怒，因公孙无知谋作乱。
连称有从妹在公宫，无宠，使之间襄公，曰 事成以女为无知夫人 。
冬十二月，襄公游姑棼，遂猎沛丘。
translation: 
In the first year of Xiang AD, when Duke Xiang was still the prince, he had a fight with Wuzhi. After he came to the throne, he lowered Wuzhi's salary, carriages, horses and clothing, and Wuzhi was very resentful.
In the fourth year, Duke Huan of Lu and his wife came to Qi.
Duke Xiang of Qi had an affair with Mrs. Lu in the past.
Mrs. Lu is the sister of Duke Xiang. She married Duke Huan of Lu as his wife during the reign of Duke Li of Qi. This time she came to Qi with Duke Huan of Lu and committed adultery with Duke Xiang.
When Duke Huan of Lu found out about this, he scolded his wife angrily, and she told Duke Xiang of Qi.
Duke Xianggang of Qi hosted a banquet for Duke Huan of Lu, got him drunk, and sent his strongman Peng Sheng to carry Duke Huan of Lu into the chariot. He then broke Duke Huan's ribs and killed Duke Huan. Duke Huan was already dead when he got out of the car.
The people of Lu blamed Qi for this, and Qi Xianggong killed Peng Sheng to apologize to Lu and atone for his sins.
In the eighth year, Qi State conquered Ji State, and Ji State was forced to move its capital.
In the twelfth year, Duke Xiang sent Lian Cheng and Guan Zhifu to garrison in Kuiqiu. They agreed to go there when the melons ripened in July, and sent someone to replace them when the melons ripened the next year.
They went to garrison for a year, but after the ripening period passed, Duke Xiang still did not send anyone to replace them.
Someone asked Duke Xiang to send someone to replace them, but Duke Xiang refused.
So the two were angry and planned a rebellion through Gongsun Wuwu.
Lian said that he had a cousin who was not favored in the palace of Duke Xiang, so he asked her to spy on Duke Xiang secretly and said to her: "When the matter is completed, I will let you be Gongsun Wuzhi's wife."
In the twelfth month of winter, Duke Xiang visited Gufen and went hunting in Peiqiu.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
见彘，从者曰 彭生 。
公怒，射之，彘人立而啼。
公惧，坠车伤足，失屦ù。
反而鞭主屦者茀三百。
茀出宫。
而无知、连称、管至父等闻公伤，乃遂率其众袭宫。
逢主屦茀，茀曰： 且无入惊宫，惊宫未易入也。
无知弗信，茀示之创，乃信之。
待宫外，令茀先入。
茀先入，即匿襄公户间。
良久，无知等恐，遂入宫。
茀反与宫中及公之幸臣攻无知等，不胜，皆死。
无知入宫，求公不得。
或见人足于户间，发视，乃襄公，遂弑之，而无知自立为齐君。
桓公元年春，齐君无知游于雍林。
translation: 
He saw a wild boar, and the attendant said it was Peng Sheng.
Duke Xiang was furious and shot the wild boar away with an arrow. The wild boar then stood up and barked like a human being.
Duke Xiang was so frightened that he fell off the carriage and injured his foot. His shoes also fell off.
After returning, he whipped the shoekeeper named Fu three hundred times.
Fu left the palace.
When Wuzhi, Lian Cheng, Guan Zhifu and others heard that Duke Xiang was injured, they led their troops to attack Duke Xiang's palace.
He happened to meet Fu who was helping Duke Xiang put on his shoes. Fu said, "Don't go in yet so as not to disturb the palace. Once the palace is disturbed, it will be difficult to attack again."
Wu Wu didn't believe this, so Fu asked him to check his wounds, and then Wu Wu believed it.
They waited outside the palace and asked Fu Xian to go in and inquire.
After Fu first entered, he immediately hid Mr. Xiang behind the door of the house.
After a long time, Wuzhi and others felt a little scared and went into the palace.
Fu Gui, the people in the palace and the trusted ministers of Duke Xianggang counterattacked Wuzhi and others, but failed to win and were all killed.
When I entered the palace ignorantly, I could not find Duke Xiang.
Someone saw human feet exposed under the door of the house. When he opened the door, he saw that it was Duke Xiang who was behind the door. He killed Duke Xiang and made himself king of Qi out of ignorance.
In the spring of the first year of Emperor Huan's reign, Lord Qi Wuzhi went to Yonglin for a visit.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
雍林人尝有怨无知，及其往游，雍林人袭杀无知，告齐大夫曰： 无知弑襄公自立，臣谨行诛。
唯大夫更立公子之当立者，唯命是听。
初，襄公之醉杀鲁桓公，通其夫人，杀诛数不当，淫于妇人，数欺大臣，群弟恐祸及，故次弟纠奔鲁。其母鲁女也。
管仲、召忽傅之。
次弟小白奔莒，鲍叔傅之。
小白母，卫女也，有宠于厘公。
小白自少好善大夫高傒。
及雍林人杀无知，议立君，高、国先阴召小白于莒。
鲁闻无知死，亦发兵送公子纠，而使管仲别将兵遮莒道，射中小白带钩。
小白详死，管仲使人驰报鲁。
鲁送纠者行益迟，六日至齐，则小白已入，高傒立之，是为桓公。
桓公之中钩，详死以误管仲，已而载温车中驰行，亦有高、国内应，故得先入立，发兵距鲁。
秋，与鲁战于干时，鲁兵败走，齐兵掩绝鲁归道。
齐遗鲁书曰： 子纠兄弟，弗忍诛，请鲁自杀之。
召忽、管仲雠也，请得而甘心醢之。不然，将围鲁。
鲁人患之，遂杀子纠于笙渎。召忽自杀，管仲请囚。
桓公之立，发兵攻鲁，心欲杀管仲。
鲍叔牙曰： 臣幸得从君，君竟以立。
translation: 
Some people in Yonglin once resented Wuzhi. When Wuwu went to play, the people of Yonglin attacked and killed Wuzhi. They announced to the officials of Qi: Wuzhi killed Duke Xiang and established himself as king. I have put him to death.
Please ask the officials to appoint the other princes who should take the throne. I will obey your orders.
At the beginning, Duke Xiang got Duke Huan of Lu drunk and killed him, and he committed adultery with Lady Lu. He also repeatedly killed and punished inappropriately, indulged in womanizing, and bullied ministers many times. His younger brothers were afraid of being implicated in the disaster, so Duke Xiang's second brother, Gong Zijiu, fled to the state of Lu. His mother was the daughter of the state of Lu.
Guan Zhong and Zhao Hu assisted him.
Prince Xiaobai, the third younger brother of Duke Xiang, fled to Ju State, and Bao Shuya assisted him.
Xiaobai's mother was the daughter of the King of Wei, and she was favored by Duke Li of Qi.
Xiaobai has been friends with the doctor Gao Xi since he was a child.
After the Yonglin people killed Wuzhi, the ministers discussed the matter of establishing a king. The Gao family and the Guo family secretly recalled Xiaobai from Ju.
When the State of Lu heard that Wuzhi was dead, it also sent troops to escort the young master Jiu back to Qi, and ordered Guan Zhong to lead another army to block the passage of Ju State. Guan Zhong shot an arrow at the belt hook of Xiaobai's waist.
Xiaobai pretended to be dead, so Guan Zhong sent someone to report to Lu.
The troops escorting Prince Jiu from the state of Lu slowed down, and it took them six days to reach the state of Qi. Xiaobai had already entered the state of Qi first, and Gao Xi made him the king, Duke Huan.
After Duke Huan was shot in the hook of his belt, he pretended to be dead to confuse Guan Zhong, and then hid in Wen's chariot and drove quickly. Because he had the two major families of the Gao family and the Guo family as internal agents, he was able to enter Qi first and ascend the throne, and sent troops to resist the Lu army.
In autumn, the Qi soldiers fought with the Lu soldiers at Qianshi. The Lu soldiers were defeated and fled, but the Qi soldiers cut off the Lu soldiers' retreat.
The State of Qi wrote to the State of Lu, saying: Zijiu is my brother. I cannot bear to kill him with my own hands. Please ask the State of Lu to kill him.
Zhao Hu and Guan Zhong were my enemies. I asked for them to be handed over to me alive, and I was willing to chop them into pieces. Otherwise, Qi soldiers will besiege Lu.
The people of Lu were afraid and killed Zijiu in Shengdu. Zhao Hu committed suicide and Guan Zhong asked for his imprisonment.
When Duke Huan came to the throne, he sent troops to attack Lu, intending to kill Guan Zhong.
Bao Shuya said: I am honored to follow you, and you finally became the king.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
君之尊，臣无以增君。
君将治齐，即高傒与叔牙足也。
君且欲霸王，非管夷吾不可。
夷吾所居国国重，不可失也。
于是桓公从之。
乃详为召管仲欲甘心，实欲用之。
管仲知之，故请往。
鲍叔牙迎受管仲，及堂阜而脱桎梏，斋祓而见桓公。
桓公厚礼以为大夫，任政。
桓公既得管仲，与鲍叔、隰朋、高傒修齐国政，连五家之兵，设轻重鱼盐之利，以赡贫穷，禄贤能，齐人皆说。
二年，伐灭郯，郯子奔莒。
初，桓公亡时，过郯，郯无礼，故伐之。
五年，伐鲁，鲁将师败。
鲁庄公请献遂邑以平，桓公许，与鲁会柯而盟。
鲁将盟，曹沫以匕首劫桓公于坛上，曰： 反鲁之侵地！
桓公许之。
已而曹沫去匕首，北面就臣位。
translation: 
I can no longer help you improve your exalted status.
If you only want to govern Qi, Gao Xi and I will be enough.
If you want to become an overlord, don't worry about Yiwu.
The country where Yiwu lives must be strong and cannot lose this talent.
So Duke Huan listened to this.
He pretended to recall Guan Zhong to take revenge, but in fact he wanted to let him rule.
Guan Zhong knew it, so he asked for Qi to be returned.
Bao Shuya welcomed Guan Zhong. As soon as he arrived at Tangfu in Qi State, he removed Guan Zhong's shackles and asked him to fast, bathe and see Duke Huan.
Duke Huan rewarded him with generous gifts and appointed Guan Zhong as a doctor to preside over government affairs.
After Duke Huan got Guan Zhong, he worked with Bao Shu, Xi Peng, and Gao Xi to manage the political affairs of Qi State, implemented the military service system with five families as the basic units, developed the advantages of commercial circulation, fishery and salt industry, used them to relieve the poor, reward the capable people, and everyone in Qi State was happy.
In the second year of Duke Huan, Qi conquered and destroyed Tan, and the king of Tan fled to Ju.
When Duke Huan fled in the early years, he visited the country of Tan. The king of Tan was rude to Duke Huan, so he attacked him.
Five years later, the Lu army was defeated.
Duke Zhuang of Lu asked for the city of Sui to be used for peace, and Duke Huan agreed to make an alliance with the Lu people in Ke.
When the oath was about to be made, Cao Mo of Lu kidnapped Duke Huan of Qi with a dagger on the altar and said: "Return the occupied land of Lu!"
Duke Huan agreed.
Then Cao Mo threw away the dagger and returned to his seat of ministers facing north.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
桓公后悔，欲无与鲁地而杀曹沫。
管仲曰： 夫劫许之而倍信杀之，愈一小快耳，而弃信于诸侯，失天下之援，不可。
于是遂与曹沫三败所亡地于鲁。
诸侯闻之，皆信齐而欲附焉。
七年，诸侯会桓公于甄ē，而桓公于是始霸焉。
十四年，陈厉公子完，号敬仲，来奔齐。
齐桓公欲以为卿，让；于是以为工正。
田成子常之祖也。
二十三年，山戎伐燕，燕告急于齐。
齐桓公救燕，遂伐山戎，至于孤竹而还。
燕庄公遂送桓公入齐境。
桓公曰： 非天子，诸侯相送不出境，吾不可以无礼于燕。
于是分沟割燕君所至与燕，命燕君复修召公之政，纳贡于周，如成康之时。
诸侯闻之，皆从齐。
二十七年，鲁愍公母曰哀姜，桓公女弟也。
哀姜淫于鲁公子庆父，庆父弑愍公，哀姜欲立庆父，鲁人更立厘公。
桓公召哀姜，杀之。
二十八年，卫文公有狄乱，告急于齐。
齐率诸侯城楚丘而立卫君。
translation: 
Duke Huan regretted not returning the occupied territory of Lu and had Cao Mo killed.
Guan Zhong said: If you agree to someone else's request when you are kidnapped, and then break your promise and kill someone, you are satisfied with a small pleasure, but you have lost your trust among the princes, and you have lost the support of the people in the world. You cannot do this.
Duke Huan then returned all the territory that Cao Mo had lost after three defeats to Lu.
When the princes heard about it, they all believed that Qi was trustworthy and were willing to surrender.
In the seventh year, the princes and Duke Heng of Qi met in Zhendi for an alliance. From then on, Duke Huan of Qi became the overlord of the princes in the world.
In the fourteenth year, Chen Ligong's son Chen Wan, named Jingzhong, fled to Qi.
Duke Huan of Qi wanted to appoint him as a minister, but he humbly declined; so he was appointed Gongzheng in charge of hundreds of works.
This is the ancestor of Tian Chengzi and Tian Chang.
In the twenty-third year, Shan Rong invaded Yan State, and Yan asked Qi State for help.
Duke Huan of Qi sent troops to rescue Yan, and then attacked Shanrong. He only returned to Guzhu after arriving at Guzhu.
King Yanzhuang sent Duke Huan into the territory of Qi again.
Duke Huan said: Except for the emperor, the princes cannot send each other out of their own borders. I cannot be rude to Yan.
So the territory of Qi State where Yan Jun went was divided with ditches and given to Yan State, so that Yan Jun could rebuild the government of Zhao Gong and pay tribute to the Zhou royal family, just like in the days of King Cheng and King Kang of Zhou.
After the princes heard about it, they all obeyed Qi.
In the twenty-seventh year, Duke Min of Lu's mother was called Ai Jiang, and she was the sister of Duke Huan of Qi.
Aijiang had an affair with Qingfu, the son of Lu Gong, and Qingfu killed Duke Min. Aijiang wanted to make Qingfu the king, but the Lu people instead made Duke Li.
Duke Huan called Ai Jiang back to Qi and killed him.
In the twenty-eighth year, Duke Wen of Wei was invaded by the Di people and asked Qi for help.
The state of Qi led the princes to build a city in Chuqiu and placed the king of Wei there.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
二十九年，桓公与夫人蔡姬戏船中。
蔡姬习水，荡公，公惧，止之，不止，出船，怒，归蔡姬，弗绝。
蔡亦怒，嫁其女。
桓公闻而怒，兴师往伐。
三十年春，齐桓公率诸侯伐蔡，蔡溃。
遂伐楚。
楚成王兴师问曰： 何故涉吾地？
管仲对曰： 昔召康公命我先君太公曰： 五侯九伯，若实征之，以夹辅周室。
赐我先君履，东至海，西至河，南至穆陵，北至无棣ì。
楚贡包茅不入，王祭不具，是以来责。
昭王南征不复，是以来问。
楚王曰： 贡之不入，有之，寡人罪也，敢不共乎！
昭王之出不复，君其问之水滨。
齐师进次于陉。
translation: 
In the twenty-ninth year, Duke Heng and his wife Cai Ji took a boat trip.
Cai Ji was familiar with the nature of water, so she rocked the boat and jolted Duke Huan. Duke Huan was afraid and ordered her to stop, but she still did not stop. After getting off the boat, Duke Huan was angry and sent Cai Ji back to Cai State, but he did not break off the marriage.
The king of Cai State was also very angry, so he married Cai Ji to someone else.
After hearing this, Duke Huan became even more angry and raised troops to attack Cai Guo.
Thirty years ago in the spring, Duke Huan of Qi led the princes to attack Cai State, and Cai State was defeated.
Duke Huan continued to attack Chu.
King Chu Cheng led his troops to meet the enemy and asked: "Why did you enter my country?"
Guan Zhong replied: In the past, Duke Kang ordered me to be the first king of Taigong: "You have the right to conquer the fifth-level princes and guard the officials in various places to assist the Zhou Dynasty."
The territory that my late king has the authority to conquer extends to the sea in the east, the Yellow River in the west, Muling in the south, and Wudi in the north.
Baomao, who was supposed to pay tribute from the Chu State, did not pay tribute, resulting in incomplete sacrificial supplies for the emperor, so he came to hold him accountable.
Once upon a time, King Zhao of Zhou did not return from his southern expedition and died in the south, so he came to question him.
The King of Chu said: "I did not pay the tribute. It is indeed my fault. I dare not not pay it in the future."
As for King Zhao of Zhou, he never returned and was not in our territory of Chu. Please go to the bank of Han River to question him.
The Qi army continued to march in Xingdi.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
夏，楚王使屈完将兵扞齐，齐师退次召陵。
桓公矜屈完以其众。
屈完曰： 君以道则可；若不，则楚方城以为城，江、汉以为沟，君安能进乎？
乃与屈完盟而去。
过陈，陈袁涛涂诈齐，令出东方，觉。
秋，齐伐陈。
是岁，晋杀太子申生。
三十五年夏，会诸侯于葵丘。
桓公欲许之，管仲曰 不可 ，乃下拜受赐。
秋，复会诸侯于葵丘，益有骄色。
周使宰孔会。
诸侯颇有叛者。
晋侯病，后，遇宰孔。
宰孔曰： 齐侯骄矣，弟无行。
从之。
是岁，晋献公卒，里克杀傒齐、卓子，秦穆公以夫人入公子夷吾为晋君。
桓公于是讨晋乱，至高梁，使隰朋立晋君，还。
是时周室微，唯齐、楚、秦、晋为强。
晋初与会，献公死，国内乱。
秦穆公辟远，不与中国会盟。
楚成王初收荆蛮有之，夷狄自置。
唯独齐为中国会盟，而桓公能宣其德，故诸侯宾会。
于是桓公称曰： 寡人南伐至召陵，望熊山；北伐山戎、离枝、孤竹；西伐大夏，涉流沙；束马悬车登太行，至卑耳山而还。
translation: 
In the summer, King Chu ordered Qu Wan to lead his army to resist the Qi army, and the Qi army retreated to Zhaoling.
Duke Huan met Qu Wan and showed off to him that he had many soldiers and generals.
Qu Wan said: Only if you are righteous can you win; otherwise, the Chu State will use Fangcheng Mountain as the city wall and the Yangtze River and Han River as the moat. How can you attack it?
Duke Huan of Qi made an agreement with Qu Wan and then led his troops to retreat.
Passing through the State of Chen, Yuan Taotu, the official of the State of Chen, deceived Duke Huan and asked the Qi army to take the difficult road to the east, but was discovered by the State of Qi.
In autumn, Qi State attacked Chen State.
This year, the king of Jin killed Prince Shen Sheng.
In the summer of the thirty-fifth year, Duke Huan and the princes met at Kuiqiu.
King Xiang of Zhou sent his strategist Kong to reward Duke Huan with the meat used to sacrifice King Wen and King Wu, bows and arrows decorated with red color, and the carriages used by the emperor. He also gave Duke Huan permission not to bow down to express his gratitude. Duke Huan wanted to agree, but Guan Zhong said, "No."
Duke Huan then bowed down and accepted the reward. In autumn, he met with the princes again at Kuiqiu, and Duke Huan of Qi became more and more proud.
The king of Zhou sent Zai Kong to attend the alliance meeting.
When the princes saw Duke Huan acting like this, some of them became disloyal.
The king of Jin was seriously ill and was late on his journey, just in time to kill Kong.
Zaikong said: Duke Huan of Qi is proud. It doesn't matter if he doesn't go.
Jinjun listened to this and did not go to the alliance meeting.
In this year, Duke Xian of Jin died, and Rick killed Xi Qi and Zhuo Zi, the youngest sons of Duke Xian. Duke Mu of Qin escorted Yi Wu back to Jin to become king because his wife was the sister of Duke Xian of Jin.
Duke Huan also crusaded against the chaos in Jin and reached Gaoliang. He sent Xi Peng to establish Yiwu as the king of Jin and then withdrew his troops.
At this time, the royal family of the Zhou Dynasty was in decline, and only the four kingdoms of Qi, Chu, Qin, and Jin were strong in the world.
Jin Xiangong of Jin State had just finished attending the alliance meeting and died soon after. The country was in chaos.
Duke Mu of Qin was located in a remote area and did not participate in the alliances between the princes of the Central Plains.
King Chu Cheng had just taken over the land of Jingman and considered himself the country of Yi and Di.
Only the state of Qi was able to convene an alliance meeting among the princes of the Central Plains, and Duke Huan of Qi had fully demonstrated his great virtue, so all the princes from all over the world were in submission and came to participate in the alliance meeting.
Therefore, Duke Huan declared: I marched south to Zhaoling and saw Xiong'er Mountain; I marched north to Shanrong, Lizhi, and Guzhu Kingdoms; I marched west to Daxia, crossing the quicksand; I bound horses' hooves, fastened their chariots to the dangerous road of Taihang, and went straight to Beier Mountain before returning.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
诸侯莫违寡人。
寡人兵车之会三，乘车之会六，九合诸侯，一匡天下。
昔三代受命，有何以异于此乎？
吾欲封泰山，禅梁父。
管仲固谏，不听；乃说桓公以远方珍怪物至乃得封，桓公乃止。
三十八年，周襄王弟带与戎、翟合谋伐周，齐使管仲平戎于周。
周欲以上卿礼管仲，管仲顿首曰： 臣陪臣，安敢！
三让，乃受下卿礼以见。
三十九年，周襄王弟带来奔齐。
齐使仲孙请王，为带谢。
襄王怒，弗听。
四十一年，秦穆公虏晋惠公，复归之。
是岁，管仲、隰朋皆卒。
管仲病，桓公问曰： 群臣谁可相者？
管仲曰： 知臣莫如君。
公曰： 易牙如何？
对曰： 杀子以适君，非人情，不可。
公曰： 开方如何？
对曰： 倍亲以适君，非人情，难近。
translation: 
No one among the princes can disobey me.
I convened three chariot alliances, six chariot alliances, and nine princes to unite the world.
What is the difference between the past three generations when they received their destiny and me now?
I want to offer sacrifices to Mount Tai and worship Father Liang in Zen.
Guan Zhong tried his best to dissuade him, but Duke Huan refused to listen. Guan Zhong then introduced that the ceremony of enshrining Zen could not be performed until various rare and exotic objects from far away were available, and Duke Huan gave up.
In the thirty-eighth year, the younger brother of King Xiang of Zhou conspired with the Rong and Zhai people to invade Zhou. Qi State sent Guan Zhong to Zhou to negotiate peace between the two sides.
The Emperor of Zhou wanted to receive Guan Zhong with the courtesy of a minister, but Guan Zhong kowtowed and said: "I am an accompanying minister, how dare I accept this courtesy!"
After repeated humility, I accepted the courtesy of the following ministers and met the emperor.
In the thirty-ninth year, Wang Zidai, the younger brother of King Xiang of Zhou, fled to Qi.
Qi State sent Zhongsun to ask King Xiang of Zhou to apologize on his behalf.
King Zhou Xiang was very angry and refused to agree.
In the forty-one year, Duke Mu of Qin captured Duke Hui of Jin and released him back to his country soon after.
This year, both Guan Zhong and Xi Peng died.
After Guan Zhong fell seriously ill, Duke Huan of Qi asked him: After your death, who among the ministers can be the prime minister?
Guan Zhong said: There is nothing better than a wise minister like a king.
Duke Huan said: "How is Yi Ya?"
He replied: He killed his own son to please the king, which is unkind and cannot be used.
Duke Huan asked: "How is this person doing?"
He replied: He abandoned his parents to cater to the king, which is unkind and unapproachable.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
公曰： 竖刀如何？
对曰： 自宫以适君，非人情，难亲。
管仲死，而桓公不用管仲言，卒近用三子，三子专权。
四十二年，戎伐周，周告急于齐。齐令诸侯各发卒戍周。
是岁，晋公子重耳来，桓公妻之。
四十三年。
初，齐桓公之夫人三：曰王姬、徐姬、蔡姬，皆无子。
桓公好内，多内宠，如夫人者六人，长卫姬，生无诡；少卫姬，生惠公元；郑姬，生孝公昭；葛嬴，生昭公潘；密姬，生懿公商人；宋华子，生公子雍。
桓公与管仲属孝公于宋襄公，以为太子。
雍巫有宠于卫共姬，因宦者竖刀以厚献于桓公，亦有宠，桓公许之立无诡。
管仲卒，五公子皆求立。
冬十月乙亥，齐桓公卒。
易牙入，与竖刀因内宠杀群吏，而立公子无诡为君。
太子昭奔宋。
桓公病，五公子各树党争立。
translation: 
Duke Huan said: "How is this man Shudao?"
He replied: Castrating yourself to please the king is unkind and cannot be trusted.
After Guan Zhong's death, Duke Huan did not listen to Guan Zhong's words, but still closely appointed these three people, who had exclusive power.
In the forty-second year, the Rong people attacked Zhou, and Zhou asked Qi for help. Qi ordered all the princes to send troops to defend the Zhou royal family.
In this year, Prince Chong'er of Jin came to Qi, and Duke Huan of Qi married his daughter to Chong'er.
Forty-three years.
At first, Duke Huan of Qi had three wives: Wang Ji, Xu Ji, and Cai Ji. None of them gave birth to a son.
Duke Huan was lustful and had many favored concubines, among whom there were six concubines with the same status as his wives: Changwei Ji, born to Wu Gui; Shao Wei Ji, born to Hui Gong; Zheng Ji, born to Xiao Gong Zhao; Ge Ying, born to Xiao Gong Pan; Mi Ji, born to Yi Gong Shang; Song Huazi, born to Gongzi Yong.
Duke Huan of Qi and Guan Zhong once entrusted Duke Xiao Gong Zhao to Duke Xiang of Song Dynasty and established him as the crown prince.
Yi Ya was favored by Duke Huan's eldest son, Wei Ji, and through the eunuch Shu Diao, he gave generous gifts to Duke Huan, so he was also favored by Duke Huan. Duke Huan agreed to make Yi Ya the crown prince.
After Guan Zhong's death, the five princes all asked to be crown princes.
On the day of Yihai in the tenth month of winter, Duke Huan of Qi died.
Yi Ya entered the palace, and Shu Dao killed the officials with the help of his favored ministers, and established the young master Wu Gui as the king of Qi.
Prince Zhao fled to the Song Dynasty.
When Duke Huan was seriously ill, the five princes each formed a party and demanded to be crowned prince.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
及桓公卒，遂相攻，以故宫中空，莫敢棺。
桓公尸在床上六十七日，尸虫出于户。
十二月乙亥，无诡立，乃棺赴。
辛巳夜，敛殡。
桓公十有余子，要其后立者五人：无诡立三月死，无谥；次孝公；次昭公；次懿公；次惠公。
孝公元年三月，宋襄公率诸侯兵送齐太子昭而伐齐。
齐人恐，杀其君无诡。
齐人将立太子昭，四公子之徒攻太子，太子走宋，宋遂与齐人四公子战。
五月，宋败齐四公子师而立太子昭，是为齐孝公。
宋以桓公与管仲属之太子，故来征之。
以乱故，八月乃葬齐桓公。
六年春，齐伐宋，以其不同盟于齐也。
夏，宋襄公卒。
七年，晋文公立。
translation: 
After Duke Huan died, they fought against each other, so that no one in the palace dared to bury Duke Huan in the coffin.
Duke Huan's body lay on the bed for sixty-seven days, and all the maggots on the body crawled outside the door.
On Yihai day of the twelfth month, Wu Gui ascended the throne, and then he put the coffin in and announced the funeral to all countries.
At night on Xinsi day, I put on my clothes and put my coffin in the hall.
There were more than ten sons of Duke Huan, and a total of five of them had ascended the throne: Wugui died three months after he ascended the throne, without a posthumous title; then came Duke Xiao; then Duke Zhao; then Duke Yi; and finally Duke Hui.
In March of the first year of Xiaogong, Song Xianggong led the army of princes to send Prince Zhao of Qi back to the country and attacked Qi.
The people of Qi were afraid and killed their king Wugui.
When the people of Qi were about to make Prince Zhao the king of Qi, the tribes of the other four princes attacked the prince again. The prince fled to the Song Dynasty, and the Song Dynasty fought against the troops of the four princes of Qi.
In May, the Song army defeated the army of the fourth prince and made Prince Zhao the king, who was Qi Xiaogong.
Song Jun was the fourth prince who came to conquer the rebellion because Duke Huan and Guan Zhong had entrusted the prince to him.
Because of the war, Duke Huan of Qi was not buried until August.
In the spring of the sixth year, Qi State attacked Song Dynasty because Song State did not participate in the alliance meeting in Qi State.
In the summer, Song Xianggong passed away.
In the seventh year, Duke Wen of Jin came to the throne.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
十年，孝公卒，孝公弟潘因卫公子开方杀孝公子而立潘，是为昭公。
昭公，桓公子也，其母曰葛嬴。
昭公元年，晋文公败楚于城濮，而会诸侯践土，朝周，天子使晋称伯。
六年，翟侵齐。
晋文公卒。
秦兵败于殽。
十二年，秦穆公卒。
十九年五月，昭公卒，子舍立为齐君。
舍之母无宠于昭公，国人莫畏。
昭公之弟商人以桓公死争立而不得，阴交贤士，附爱百姓，百姓说。
及昭公卒，子舍立，孤弱，即与众十月即墓上弑齐君舍，而商人自立，是为懿公。
懿公，桓公子也，其母曰密姬。
懿公四年春，初，懿公为公子时，与丙戎之父猎，争获不胜。及即位，断丙戎父足，而使丙戎仆。
庸职之妻好，公内之宫，使庸职骖乘。
translation: 
In the tenth year, Xiaogong passed away. Pan, Xiaogong's younger brother, asked his son to make a prescription to kill Xiaogong's son and made Pan the king, who was Zhaogong.
Duke Zhao is the son of Duke Huan, and his mother's name is Ge Ying.
In the first year of Zhaogong, Duke Wen of Jin defeated the Chu army in Chengpu. He called the princes to make an alliance in Jiantu and met with the emperor of Zhou. The emperor made Jin the overlord of the princes.
In the sixth year, he invaded Qi.
Duke Wen of Jin passed away.
The Qin army was defeated in Huodi.
In the twelfth year, Duke Mu of Qin passed away.
In May of the 19th year, Duke Zhao died, and his son She was made King of Qi.
She's mother was not favored by Duke Zhao, so no one in Qi was afraid of him.
Duke Zhao's younger brother, Merchant, failed to become king after Duke Huan's death. He secretly befriended wise men and cared for the people, so he was very popular among the people.
After the death of Duke Zhao, his son She succeeded to the throne, but he was weak. The merchants and others killed Qi Junshe in front of Zhaogong's grave in October. The merchants established themselves as kings, namely Duke Yigong.
Duke Yi was the son of Duke Huan, and his mother's name was Miji.
In the spring of the fourth year of Duke Yi, when he was still a son, Duke Yi and Bingrong's father hunted together and competed with each other for the prey, but Duke Yi failed to win. After he came to the throne, Duke Yi cut off Bingrong's father's foot and asked Bingrong to drive for him.
Yongzhi's wife was very beautiful, so Duke Yi snatched her into the palace and made Yongzhi his companion.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
五月，懿公游于申池，二人浴，戏。职曰： 断足子！
戎曰： 夺妻者！
二人俱病此言，乃怨。
谋与公游竹中，二人弑懿公车上，弃竹中而亡去。
懿公之立，骄，民不附。
齐人废其子而迎公子元于卫，立之，是为惠公。
惠公，桓公子也，其母卫女，曰少卫姬，避齐乱，故在卫。
惠公二年，长翟来，王子城父攻杀之，埋之于北门。
晋赵穿弑其君灵公。
十年，惠公卒，子顷公无野立。
初，崔杼有宠于惠公，惠公卒，高、国畏其逼也，逐之，崔杼奔卫。
顷公元年，楚庄王强，伐陈；二年，围郑，郑伯降，已复国郑伯。
六年春，晋使郄克于齐，齐使夫人帷中而观之。
郄克上，夫人笑之。
郄克曰： 不是报，不复涉河！
translation: 
In the fifth month, Duke Yi was playing in Shenchi. Bingrong and Yongzhi were joking with each other while taking a bath.
Yongzhi said that Bingrong was the son of the man who cut off his feet, while Bingrong said that Yongzhi was the husband who had his wife taken away from him.
Both of them were ashamed of these words and hated Duke Yi together.
So the two of them planned for Yi Gong to go to the bamboo forest to play. They killed Yi Gong in the car, threw the body in the bamboo forest and escaped.
After Yigong came to the throne, he became arrogant and arrogant, and the people did not join him.
The people of Qi deposed the son of Duke Yi and welcomed the prince Yuan from Wei to return to Qi. He made him the king of the country, namely Duke Hui.
Duke Hui was the son of Duke Huan. His mother was a daughter of Wei State named Shao Wei Ji. She fled to Wei State to avoid civil strife in Qi.
In the second year of Duke Hui, Chang Zhai came to Qi. Prince Chengfu attacked and killed Chang Zhai and buried him at the north gate.
Zhao Chuan, the official of Jin State, killed the king of Jin Linggong.
In ten years, Duke Hui died, and his son Qinggong Wuye succeeded him.
At first, Cui Zhu was favored by Duke Hui. After Hui Gong's death, the Gao family and the Guo family were afraid of being coerced by him, so they expelled Cui Zhu from the country, and Cui Zhu fled to Weiguo.
In the first year of Qing AD, King Zhuang of Chu became stronger and conquered the State of Chen. In the second year, the State of Chu besieged the State of Zheng. Zheng Bo surrendered and soon restored Zheng Bo.
In the spring of the sixth year, the state of Jin sent Choke as envoy to the state of Qi. Qi Qinggong asked his mother to sit behind the curtain and watch.
When Choke went up the stairs, his wife saw that he was hunchbacked and laughed at him.
Choke said: If I don't repay this humiliation, I will never cross the Yellow River again!


Chunk 18: 
original: 
归，请伐齐，晋侯弗许。
齐使至晋，郄克执齐使者四人河内，杀之。
八年。晋伐齐，齐以公子强质晋，晋兵去。
十年春，齐伐鲁、卫。
鲁、卫大夫如晋请师，皆因郄克。
晋使郄克以车八百乘为中军将，士燮将上军，栾书将下军，以救鲁、卫，伐齐。
六月壬申，与齐侯兵合靡笄下。
癸酉，陈于鞍。
逄丑父为齐顷公右。
顷公曰： 驰之，破晋军会食。
射伤郄克，流血至履。
克欲还入壁，其御曰： 我始入，再伤，不敢言疾，恐惧士卒。愿子忍之。 遂复战。
战，齐急，丑父恐齐侯得，乃易处，顷公为右，车絓于木而止。
晋小将韩厥伏齐侯车前，曰 寡君使臣救鲁、卫 ，戏之。
丑父使顷公下取饮，因得亡，脱去，入其军。
晋郄克欲杀丑父。丑父曰： 代君死而见僇，后人臣无忠其君者矣。
克舍之，丑父遂得亡归齐。
于是晋军追齐至马陵。
translation: 
After returning home, he asked the Lord of Jin to attack Qi, but the Lord of Jin refused.
When the envoys from Qi arrived in Jin, Chu Ke captured four of the envoys from Qi in Hanoi and killed them all.
In the eighth year, the state of Jin attacked Qi, and the state of Qi forced the young master to take him as a hostage in the state of Jin, and the Jin army left.
In the spring of ten years, Qi State conquered Lu State and Wei State.
When the officials of Lu and Wei went to Jin to ask for help, they all went through Chuke.
The state of Jin sent Chuoke to lead the army with eight hundred chariots as the general of the central army, Shi Xie to lead the upper army, and Luan Shu to lead the lower army to rescue Lu and Wei and attack Qi.
On Renshen Day in June, the Jin army and the Qi army fought at the foot of Miji Mountain.
On Guixi day, the two armies formed a formation on the saddle.
Pang Chou's father served as Qi Qinggong's chariot warrior.
Qinggong said: "Rush forward, defeat the Jin army and then have a meal."
Qi Guo shot Chuke and his blood flowed to his feet.
Chuke wanted to retreat to the camp, but the driver of his chariot said: I have been wounded twice since entering the battle. I dare not say the pain because I am afraid of frightening the soldiers. I hope you can endure the pain and continue to fight.
So Chu Ke went into battle again. During the battle, the Qi army was in a critical situation. Pang Chou's father was afraid that Qi Qinggong would be captured alive, so he exchanged positions with Qinggong. Qinggong became a warrior on the right side of the chariot. The chariot tripped over a tree and broke down.
Han Jue, a young general of Jin State, bowed down in front of Qi Qinggong's chariot and said: Our Lord Jin sent me to rescue Lu and Wei.
He was mocking the Marquis of Qi. Chou's father pretended to be Qing Gong and asked Qing Gong, who was disguised as a warrior on the right side of the car, to get out of the car to get some water. Qing Gong was able to escape and ran back to the Qi army's formation.
Chuke of the Jin Dynasty wanted to kill Chou's father. Chou's father said: I died for the king and was killed. From now on, there will be no ministers who are loyal to the king.
Chuke let him go, and Choufu was able to escape and return to the Qi army.
The Jin army pursued the Qi army as far as Maling.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
齐侯请以宝器谢，不听；必得笑克者萧桐叔子，令齐东亩。
对曰： 叔子，齐君母。
齐君母亦犹晋君母，子安置之？
且子以义伐而以暴为后，其可乎？
于是乃许，令反鲁、卫之侵地。
十一年，晋初置六卿，赏鞍之功。
齐顷公朝晋，欲尊王晋景公，晋景公不敢受，乃归。
归而顷公弛苑囿，薄赋敛，振孤问疾，虚积聚以救民，民亦大说。
厚礼诸侯。
竟顷公卒，百姓附，诸侯不犯。
十七年，顷公卒，子灵公环立。
灵公九年，晋栾书弑其君厉公。
十年，晋悼公伐齐，齐令公子光质晋。
十九年，立子光为太子，高厚傅之，令会诸侯盟于钟离。
二十七年，晋使中行献子伐齐。
齐师败，灵公走入临菑。
translation: 
Qi Qinggong asked to offer a treasure to apologize, but Chu Ke refused. He insisted on getting Uncle Xiao Tong, who laughed at Chu Ke, and ordered the state of Qi to change all the fields to the east-west direction.
The people of Qi replied: Uncle Xiao Tong is the mother of Qi Qinggong.
Qi Jun's mother has the same status as Jin Jun's mother. What do you plan to do with her after you get her?
Moreover, you defeated Qi as an army of justice, but ended up being violent and rude. Is it allowed to do this?
So Chuke agreed to them and only asked Qi to return the occupied territories of Lu and Wei.
In the eleventh year, Jin began to set up six ministers to reward meritorious personnel in the Andi War.
Qi Qinggong met with Jin Jun and wanted to pay homage to Jin Jinggong with the courtesy of meeting the emperor. Jin Jinggong did not dare to accept it, so Qi Jun returned home.
After returning home, he opened his safari gardens, reduced taxes, provided relief to orphans, widows and disabled people, and used the country's savings to save the people. The people were also very happy.
Qi Qinggong returned generous gifts to the princes.
Until the death of Duke Qing, the people surrendered and no princes invaded Qi.
In the seventeenth year, Qing Gong died and his son Linggong Huan succeeded to the throne.
In the ninth year of Duke Linggong, Luan Shu, the official of Jin, killed his king, Duke Li of Jin.
In the tenth year of the Jin Dynasty, Duke Dao of Jin attacked the state of Qi, and the Marquis of Qi asked his son Guang to serve as a hostage in the state of Jin.
In the 19th year, the Marquis of Qi made Prince Guang the crown prince, asked Gao Hou to assist him, and sent him to Zhongli to attend the princes' alliance meeting.
In the twenty-seventh year, the state of Jin sent Zhongxianzi to attack the state of Qi.
The Qi army was defeated and Duke Linggong fled to Linzi City.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
晏婴止灵公，灵公弗从。
曰： 君亦无勇矣！
晋兵遂围临菑，临菑城守不敢出，晋焚郭中而去。
二十八年，初，灵公取鲁女，生子光，以为太子。
仲姬，戎姬。
戎姬嬖，仲姬生子牙，属之戎姬。
戎姬请以为太子，公许之。
仲姬曰： 不可。
光之立，列于诸侯矣，今无故废之，君必悔之。
公曰： 在我耳。
遂东太子光，使高厚傅牙为太子。
灵公疾，崔杼迎故太子光而立之，是为庄公。
庄公杀戎姬。
五月壬辰，灵公卒，庄公即位，执太子牙于句窦之丘，杀之。
八月，崔杼杀高厚。
晋闻齐乱，伐齐，至高唐。
庄公三年，晋大夫栾盈奔齐，庄公厚客待之。
晏婴、田文子谏，公弗听。
translation: 
Yan Ying tried to persuade Ling Gong not to run away, but Ling Gong didn't listen.
Yanzi said: Our king has no courage.
The Jin troops surrounded Linzi, but the Qi people guarded the inner city and did not dare to attack. The Jin troops burned the outer city and withdrew their troops.
In the twenty-eighth year, at the beginning, Duke Linggong married a daughter of the state of Lu, gave birth to his son Guang, and established him as the crown prince.
Later, he married Zhong Ji and Rong Ji.
Rong Ji was favored, and Zhong Ji gave birth to a son named Ya, who was entrusted to Rong Ji to raise.
Rong Ji asked for Li Ya to be crown prince, and Duke Linggong agreed.
Zhong Ji said: No.
Guang was established as the prince and already ranked among the princes. If you depose him now for no reason, you will definitely regret it.
Lord Linggong said: It all depends on me to abolish the establishment.
So he moved Prince Guang to the east and made Gao Hou assist Ya as the crown prince.
When Ling Gong fell ill, Cui Zhu welcomed the original crown prince Guang and established him as the king, who was Duke Zhuang.
Duke Zhuang killed Rong Ji.
On the day of Renchen in the fifth month, Duke Ling died and Duke Zhuang ascended the throne. Prince Ya was captured and killed in Judouqiu.
In August, Cui Zhu killed Gao Hou.
When Jin heard about the civil strife in Qi, he attacked Qi and reached Gaotang.
In the third year of Duke Zhuang's reign, Luan Ying, a senior official of Jin State, fled to Qi State. Duke Zhuang treated him as a grand guest.
Yan Ying and Tian Wenzi tried their best to dissuade him, but Duke Zhuang refused to listen.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
四年，齐庄公使栾盈间入晋曲沃为内应，以兵随之，上太行，入孟门。
栾盈败，齐兵还，取朝歌。
六年，初，棠公妻好，棠公死，崔杼取之。
庄公通之，数如崔氏，以崔杼之冠赐人。
待者曰： 不可。
崔杼怒，因其伐晋，欲与晋合谋袭齐而不得间。
庄公尝笞宦者贾举，贾举复侍，为崔杼间公以报怨。
五月，莒子朝齐，齐以甲戌飨之。
崔杼称病不视事。
乙亥，公问崔杼病，遂从崔杼妻。
崔杼妻入室，与崔杼自闭户不出，公拥柱而歌。
宦者贾举遮公从官而入，闭门，崔杼之徒持兵从中起。
公登台而请解，不许；请盟，不许；请自杀于庙，不许。
translation: 
In the fourth year, Duke Zhuang of Qi sent Luan Ying to secretly enter Quwo to respond to Qi's internal affairs. Qi's soldiers then went up to the Taihang Mountains and entered the Mengmen Pass.
Luan Ying was exposed, and the Qi army withdrew back to the country and captured the Chaoge City of Jin.
Six years ago, Duke Tang's wife died. After Duke Tang died, Cui Zhu married her.
Duke Zhuang committed adultery with her again, went to Cui Zhu's house many times, and even gave Cui Zhu's crown to others.
Zhuang Gong's attendant said: "You can't do this."
Cui Zhu was very angry and took advantage of Duke Zhuang's attack on Jin. He wanted to conspire with Jin to attack Duke Zhuang but failed.
Duke Zhuang once whipped the eunuch Jia Ju, and Jia Ju was appointed as a chamberlain, looking for loopholes for Duke Zhuang to avenge Cui Zhu.
In the fifth month, the king of Ju State, Ju Zi, went to court to see the king of Qi. Duke Zhuang of Qi hosted a banquet for the king of Ju on Jiaxu Day.
Cui Zhu refused to go to court on the grounds of illness.
On the day of Yihai, Duke Zhuang visited Cui Zhu's condition and then pursued Cui Zhu's wife.
Cui Zhu's wife went into the inner room and closed the door with Cui Zhu, unable to get out. Duke Zhuang was holding a pillar in the front hall and singing.
At this time, the eunuch Jia Ju blocked Duke Zhuang's attendants from outside and entered the courtyard himself, closing the courtyard door from the inside. Cui Zhu's disciples swarmed forward with weapons in hand.
Duke Zhuang went up to the high court platform to ask for reconciliation, but was rejected; Duke Zhuang also asked for an oath of alliance, but was also rejected. Duke Zhuang finally asked to be allowed to commit suicide in his ancestral temple, but everyone still did not allow it.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
皆曰： 君之臣杼疾病，不能听命。
近于公宫。陪臣争趣有淫者，不知二命。
公逾墙，射中公股，公反坠，遂弑之。
晏婴立崔杼门外，曰： 君为社稷死则死之，为社稷亡则亡之。
若为己死己亡，非其私昵ì，谁敢任之！
门开而入，枕公尸而哭，三踊而出。
人谓崔杼： 必杀之。
崔杼曰： 民之望也，舍之得民。
丁丑，崔杼立庄公异母弟杵臼，是为景公。
景公母，鲁叔孙宣伯女也。
景公立，以崔杼为右相，庆封为左相。
二相恐乱起，乃与国人盟曰： 不与崔庆者死！
晏子仰天曰： 婴所不获唯忠于君利社稷者是从！ 不肯盟。
translation: 
Everyone said: Cui Zhu, the king's minister, is seriously ill and cannot come in person to obey your orders.
This place is very close to the palace. We only know how to catch lewd people and will not obey the orders of anyone other than Cui Zhu.
Duke Zhuang tried to escape by jumping over the wall, but was shot in the thigh. He fell back into the wall and was killed.
Yan Ying stood outside the gate of Cui Zhu's courtyard and said: If the king dies for the country, his ministers should die for him; if the king flees for the country, the ministers should follow him in exile.
The king dies and flees for his own selfish interests. Except for his favored personal ministers, no one else will die and flee for this purpose.
Yan Zi and others opened the gate and entered the courtyard. He placed Duke Zhuang's corpse pillow on his lap and caressed the corpse while crying. After getting up, he paused three times to express his grief and then walked out of the courtyard.
Others said to Cui Zhu: Yan Ying must be killed!
Cui Zhu said: He is a popular person. If we let him go, we will win over the people.
On Ding Chou day, Cui Zhu made Chujiu, the half-brother of Duke Zhuang, the king of Duke Jin.
Jinggong's mother was the daughter of Sun Xuanbo, a great official of the state of Lu.
After Jinggong ascended the throne, he made Cui Zhu the right prime minister and Qingfeng the left prime minister.
The two prime ministers were afraid of domestic unrest, so they swore an alliance with the people: Whoever doesn't follow Cui Qing will die!
Yanzi looked up to the sky and sighed and said: I can't do it. I only follow those who are loyal to the emperor and benefit the country! Refuse to take part in the oath.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
庆封欲杀晏子，崔杼曰： 忠臣也，舍之。
齐太史书曰： 崔杼弑庄公。 崔杼杀之。
其弟复书，崔杼复杀之。
少弟复书，崔杼乃舍之。
景公元年，初，崔杼生子成及强，其母死，取东郭女，生明。
东郭女使其前夫子无咎与其弟偃相崔氏。
成有罪，二相急治之，立明为太子。
成请老于崔，崔杼许之，二相弗听，曰： 崔，宗邑，不可。
成、强怒，告庆封。
庆封与崔杼有郄，欲其败也。
成、强杀无咎、偃于崔杼家，家皆奔亡。
崔杼怒，无人，使一宦者御，见庆封。
庆封曰： 请为子诛之。
使崔杼仇卢蒲嫳攻崔氏，杀成、强，尽灭崔氏，崔杼妇自杀。
崔杼毋归，亦自杀。
庆封为相国，专权。
三年十月，庆封出猎。
初，庆封已杀崔杼，益骄，嗜酒好猎，不听政令。
庆舍用政，已有内郄。
田文子谓桓子曰： 乱将作。
田、鲍、高、栾氏相与谋庆氏。
庆舍发甲围庆封宫，四家徒共击破之。
庆封还，不得入，奔鲁。
齐人让鲁，封奔吴。
吴与之朱方，聚其族而居之，富于在齐。
其秋，齐人徙葬庄公，僇崔杼尸于市以说众。
九年，景公使晏婴之晋，与叔向私语曰： 齐政卒归田氏。
田氏虽无大德，以公权私，有德于民，民爱之。
十二年，景公如晋，见平公，欲与伐燕。
十八年，公复如晋，见昭公。
二十六年，猎鲁郊，因入鲁，与晏婴俱问鲁礼。
三十一年，鲁昭公辟季氏难，奔齐。
translation: 
Qingfeng wanted to kill Yanzi, but Cui Zhu said: "He is a loyal minister, let him go."
Taishi of Qi is recorded in Jian Ce: Cui Zhu killed Duke Zhuang, and Cui Zhu killed Taishi.
Taishi's younger brother once again recorded that Cui Zhu killed him again.
Taishi's younger brother also recorded that Cui Zhu let him go.
In the first year of Jing Gong, Cui Zhu initially gave birth to sons Cheng and Qiang. After their mother died, Cui Zhu married the daughter of the Dongguo family and gave birth to Ming.
Dongguo's daughter asked her ex-husband's son Wu Jiu and her own brother Dongguo Yan to assist Cui Zhu.
When Cheng committed a crime, the two family ministers Wujiu and Dongguo Yan immediately punished Cheng severely and made Ming the crown prince.
Cheng requested to go to Cui Yi to report his old age and return to his hometown. Cui Zhu agreed, but Erxiang refused, saying: Cui Yi is the place where the Cui clan's ancestral temple is located, and Cheng cannot go.
Cheng and Qiang were angry and informed Qingfeng about the incident.
Qingfeng had a conflict with Cui Zhu and wanted the Cui family to fall.
Cheng and Qiang killed Wu Jiu and Dong Guo Yan in Cui Zhu's home, and everyone in the family fled in all directions.
Cui Zhu was furious, but there was no one around him, so he had to ask a eunuch to drive for him to see Qingfeng.
Qingfeng said: Let me kill Cheng and Qiang for you.
So Cui Zhu's enemy Lu Pu'ao was sent to attack the Cui family, killing Cheng and Qiang. The Cui family was wiped out, and Cui Zhu's wife committed suicide.
Cui Zhu was homeless and committed suicide.
Qingfeng became the prime minister and had great power.
In October of the third year, Qingfeng went out hunting.
After Qingfeng killed Cui Zhu, he became more arrogant, drank heavily, went hunting, and ignored government affairs.
His son Qingshe was in power, and there were internal conflicts.
Tian Wenzi said to Tian Huanzi: Turmoil is about to break out.
The four families of Tian, ​​Bao, Gao and Luan jointly planned to eliminate the Qing family.
Qingshe sent armored soldiers to surround Qingfeng's palace, and the disciples of the four families worked together to defeat the Qing family's house.
When Qingfeng returned, he was unable to enter his home and fled to the state of Lu.
The people of Qi blamed the state of Lu, and Qingfeng fled to the state of Wu.
The state of Wu rewarded Qingfeng with the land of Zhufang. Qingfeng and his people lived here and were richer than when they were in Qi state.
In the autumn of this year, the people of Qi moved Duke Zhuang to bury him and displayed Cui Zhu's body in the market to vent the people's anger.
In the ninth year, Jinggong sent Yan Ying as envoy to Jin. Yan Ying privately told Shu Xiang: The power of Qi will eventually return to the Tian family.
Although Tian has no great merits, he can use public affairs to do private favors. He is kind to the people and is supported by the people.
In the twelfth year, Jinggong went to Jin State and met with Jin Pinggong, hoping to jointly attack Yan State.
In the eighteenth year, Jinggong went to Jin again and met with Jin Zhaogong.
In the twenty-sixth year, Jinggong was hunting in the suburbs of Lu State, and then entered the capital of Lu State, where he consulted with Yan Ying about the etiquette system of Lu State.
In the thirty-first year, Duke Zhao of Lu fled to Qi State to avoid Ji's rebellion.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
齐欲以千社封之，子家止昭公，昭公乃请齐伐鲁，取郓以居昭公。
三十二年，彗星见。
景公坐柏寝，叹曰： 堂堂！
谁有此乎？
群臣皆泣，晏子笑，公怒。
晏子曰： 臣笑群臣谀甚。
景公曰： 彗星出东北，当齐分野，寡人以为忧。
晏子曰： 君高台深池，赋敛如弗得，刑罚恐弗胜，茀星将出，彗星何惧乎？
公曰： 可禳否？
晏子曰： 使神可祝而来，亦可禳而去也。
百姓苦怨以万数，而君令一人禳之，安能胜众口乎？
是时景公好治宫室，聚狗马，奢侈，厚赋重刑，故晏子以此谏之。
四十二年，吴王阖闾伐楚，入郢。
四十七年，鲁阳虎攻其君，不胜，奔齐，请齐伐鲁。
translation: 
Jinggong wanted to grant the title of Qianshe family and land to Zhaogong, but the Zi family dissuaded Zhaogong not to accept it. Zhaogong asked Qi to send troops to attack Lu and capture Yunyi. He captured Yunyi and gave it to Lu Zhaogong to live in.
In the thirty-second year, a comet appeared in the sky.
Jinggong sat on the cypress bed and sighed: "Who will own this magnificent pavilion?"
The ministers shed tears of worry.
Yanzi laughed instead, and Jinggong was very angry.
Yanzi said: I laugh at the ministers for being too flattering.
Jinggong said: The comet appears in the northeastern sky, which is exactly opposite the geographical position of Qi State, and everyone is worried about it.
Yanzi said: You build high platforms and dig deep pools, you collect more taxes for fear that you will get less, you impose excessive punishments for fear that they will not be harsh, and the most vicious star is about to appear. What comet are you afraid of?
Jinggong said: Can we use sacrifices and prayers to get rid of comets?
Yanzi said: If blessing can make the gods come, then praying can also make them go away.
But there are thousands of people who are unhappy and resentful, and if you ask one person to pray for mercy, how can he overcome the complaints of all the people?
At that time, Jinggong built a large palace, kept many dogs and horses, was extravagant, taxed heavily and punished severely, so Yanzi took the opportunity to remonstrate with Jinggong of Qi.
In the forty-second year, King Helu of Wu attacked Chu and captured Ying, the capital of Chu.
In the forty-seventh year, Yang Hu, a senior official of Lu State, attacked the Lord of Lu but failed. He fled to Qi State and asked Qi State to attack Lu.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
鲍子谏景公，乃囚阳虎。
阳虎得亡，奔晋。
四十八年，与鲁定公好会夹谷。
犁锄曰： 孔丘知礼而怯，请令莱人为乐，因执鲁君，可得志。
景公害孔丘相鲁，惧其霸，故从犁锄之计。
方会，进莱乐，孔子历阶上，使有司执莱人斩之，以礼让景公。
景公惭，乃归鲁侵地以谢，而罢去。
是岁，晏婴卒。
五十五年，范、中行反其君于晋，晋攻之急，来请粟。
田乞欲为乱，树党于逆臣，说景公曰： 范、中行数有德于齐，不可不救。
乃使乞救而输之粟。
五十八年夏，景公夫人燕姬适子死。
景公宠妾芮姬生子荼，荼少，其母贱，无行，诸大夫恐其为嗣，乃言愿择诸子长贤者为太子。
景公老，恶言嗣事，又爱荼母，欲立之，惮发之口，乃谓诸大夫曰： 为乐耳，国何患无君乎？
秋，景公病，命国惠子、高昭子立少子荼为太子，逐群公子，迁之莱。
景公卒，太子荼立，是为晏孺子。
冬，未葬，而群公子畏诛，皆出亡。
荼诸异母兄公子寿、驹、黔奔卫，公子驵、阳生奔鲁。
莱人歌之曰： 景公死乎弗与埋，三军事乎弗与谋，师乎师乎，胡党之乎？
晏孺子元年春，田乞伪事高、国者，每朝，乞骖乘，言曰： 子得君，大夫皆自危，欲谋作乱。
translation: 
Bao Zi admonished Jinggong, so Jinggong imprisoned Yang Hu.
Yang Hu found an opportunity to escape and fled to Jin.
In the forty-eighth year, Jinggong and Lu Dinggong reconciled at the Jiagu League Meeting.
The plow hoe said: Confucius is well versed in etiquette but cowardly. Please allow the Lai people to perform songs and dances. We will seize the opportunity to capture Lord Lu, so that Lu can satisfy our demands.
Jinggong was worried that Confucius would become the prime minister of Lu and that Lu would achieve hegemony, so he followed the plan of plowing and hoeing.
During the alliance meeting, Qi State presented the Lai people with music and dance. Confucius ascended the stage and ordered the relevant personnel to capture the Lai people and behead them. Then he cited the etiquette system to condemn Jinggong.
Jinggong was so ashamed that he returned the occupied territory of Lu to apologize, and then left.
This year, Yingyan died.
In the fifty-fifth year of the Jin Dynasty, the officials Fan and Zhongxing rebelled against their monarch. The Jin monarch was in a hurry to attack the two clans, so they sent people to Qi to borrow grain.
Tian Qi wanted to cause rebellion and form a party with the rebellious ministers of Jin, so he advised Jinggong: "Fan and Zhonghang have been kind to Qi many times and must be saved."
Jinggong sent Tian Qi to rescue them and provide them with food.
In the summer of the fifty-eighth year, the legitimate son of Duke Jinggong’s wife Yan Ji passed away.
Jinggong's favorite concubine Rui Ji gave birth to a son Tu. Tu was young, his mother was born in a lowly position, and Tu behaved badly. The officials were worried that Tu would become the prince, so they advised Jinggong that they hoped to choose the older and virtuous among the princes to be the prince.
Jinggong was old and hated talking about the prince. He also doted on Tu's mother. He wanted to make Tu the prince, but he didn't want to propose it himself. So he said to the officials: "Enjoy yourself in time. Is the country still afraid of not having a monarch?"
In the autumn, Jinggong was seriously ill, so he ordered Guo Huizi and Gao Zhaozi to make their youngest son Tuli the prince, expelled the other princes, and moved to Laidi.
After Jinggong passed away, Prince Tu became the king, who was Yan Ruzi.
In the winter, Qi Jinggong had not yet been buried, and the other princes fled abroad for fear of being killed.
Tu's half-brothers Shou, Ju, and Qian fled to Wei, and the young masters Zao and Yangsheng fled to Lu.
Lai people sang about this: You can't attend Jinggong's funeral, and the national military is not allowed to plan. Followers of the princes, where will you go?
In the spring of the first year of Yan Ruzi's reign, Tian Qi pretended to be loyal to the Gao family and the Guo family. Every time the two families went to court, Tian Qi would ride for them and say: You have gained the king's trust, and all the officials are in danger and want to plot rebellion.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
又谓诸大夫曰： 高昭子可畏，及未发，先之。
大夫从之。
六月，田乞、鲍牧乃与大夫以兵入公宫，攻高昭子。
昭子闻之，与国惠子救公。
公师败，田乞之徒追之，国惠子奔莒，遂反杀高昭子。
晏圉奔鲁。
八月，齐秉意兹。
田乞败二相，乃使人之鲁召公子阳生。
阳生至齐，私匿田乞家。
十月戊子，田乞请诸大夫曰： 常之母有鱼菽之祭，幸来会饮。
会饮，田乞盛阳生橐中，置坐中央，发橐出阳生，曰： 此乃齐君矣！
大夫皆伏谒。
将与大夫盟而立之，鲍牧醉，乞诬大夫曰： 吾与鲍牧谋共立阳生。
鲍牧怒曰： 子忘景公之命乎？
诸大夫相视欲悔，阳生前，顿首曰： 可则立之，否则已。
鲍牧恐祸起，乃复曰： 皆景公子也，何为不可！
translation: 
He also said to the group of doctors: Gao Zhaozi is too terrible. Before he starts to persecute us, let's get rid of him first.
The doctors all obeyed him.
In June, Tian Qi, Bao Mu and other officials led troops into the palace to attack Gao Zhaozi.
When Zhaozi heard about it, he and Guohuizi rescued the king.
The king was defeated and Tian Qi's disciples pursued him. Guo Huizi fled to Ju State, but Tian Qi came back and killed Gao Zhaozi.
Yan Yu fled to the state of Lu.
In August, Qi doctor Bingyi fled to Lu.
After Tian Qi defeated the two prime ministers of Gao and Guo, he sent people to Lu to welcome back Yang Sheng.
After Yang Sheng arrived, he hid in Tian Qi's home.
On the Wuzi day of the tenth month, Tian Qi invited all the doctors and said: "Chan'er's mother will hold a meager ceremony at home today. Please come and drink."
During the banquet, Tian Qi put Yang Sheng in a big bag and placed it in the center of the seat. Then he opened the bag and released Yang Sheng, saying: "This is the king of Qi!"
All the doctors paid their respects on the spot.
Then he had to make an oath with all the officials to make Yangsheng the king. At this time, Bao Mu was already drunk, so Tian Qi deceived everyone and said: Bao Mu and I made a plan to make Yangsheng the king.
Bao Mu said angrily: "Have you forgotten Jing Gong's decree that Tu be the king?"
All the officials looked at each other and wanted to regret it. Yang Sheng came forward, kowtowed and said: If you can help me, I will do it, otherwise I will give up.
Bao Mu was also afraid of causing trouble, so he said: "We are all the sons of Jinggong, what's the big deal?"


Chunk 27: 
original: 
乃与盟，立阳生，是为悼公。
悼公入宫，使人迁晏孺子于骀，杀之幕下，而逐孺子母芮子。
芮子故贱而孺子少，故无权，国人轻之。
悼公元年，齐伐鲁，取讙、阐。
初，阳生亡在鲁，季康子以其妹妻之。
及归即位，使迎之。
季姬与季鲂侯通，言其情，鲁弗敢与，故齐伐鲁，竟迎季姬。
季姬嬖，齐复归鲁侵地。
鲍子与悼公有郄，不善。
四年，吴、鲁伐齐南方。
鲍子弑悼公，赴于吴。
吴王夫差哭于军门外三日，将从海入讨齐。
齐人败之，吴师乃去。
晋赵鞅伐齐，至赖而去。
齐人共立悼公子壬，是为简公。
简公四年春，初，简公与父阳生俱在鲁也，监止有宠焉。
及即位，使为政。
translation: 
So he made an alliance with everyone and established Yangsheng as the king of Qi, which was the duke's mourning.
Duke Ai entered the palace and sent people to exile Yan Ruzi to Ni. On the way, he set up a tent and killed Yan Ruzi inside, and expelled Ruizi, his mother.
Ruizi was originally humble and a young boy, so he had no power and the people of the country despised them.
In the first year of mourning, the state of Qi attacked Lu and captured the two places of Xi and Chan.
At first, Yang Sheng fled to Lu, and Ji Kangzi married his sister to him.
After Yang Sheng returned to the country and ascended the throne, he sent someone to the state of Lu to welcome his wife.
His wife Ji Ji had an affair with Marquis Ji Yi and told the truth to her family. The Lu people did not dare to give Ji Ji to the Qi State, so the Qi State attacked the Lu State and finally took Ji Ji to Qi.
Ji Ji was favored by Duke Mourning, and Qi State returned the occupied land of Lu State.
Bao Zi had conflicts with Duke Ai, and their relationship was not harmonious.
In the fourth year, Wu and Lu attacked the southern part of Qi.
Bao Zi killed Duke Mourning and reported his mourning to the State of Wu.
King Wu Fu Chai cried and mourned outside the military gate for three days according to etiquette. He was about to march by sea to attack Qi.
The Qi army defeated the Wu army and the Wu army retreated.
Zhao Yang of Jin State attacked Qi State and withdrew his troops after reaching Lai.
The people of Qi unanimously supported Duke Yu's son Ren as the king of Qi, which was Duke Jian.
In the spring of the fourth year of Duke Jian, at first, when Duke Jian of Qi and his father, Duke Du, were both in the state of Lu, they favored the officials and supervised them.
After Duke Jian ascended the throne, he was asked to preside over state affairs.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
田成子惮之，骤顾于朝。
御鞅言简公曰： 田、监不可并也，君其择焉。
弗听。
子我夕，田逆杀人，逢之，遂捕以入。
田氏方睦，使囚病而遗守囚者酒，醉而杀守者，得亡。
子我盟诸田于陈宗。
初，田豹欲为子我臣，使公孙言豹，豹有丧而止。
后卒以为臣，幸于子我。
子我谓曰： 吾尽逐田氏而立女，可乎？
对曰： 我远田氏矣。且其违者不过数人，何尽逐焉！
遂告田氏。
子行曰： 彼得君，弗先，必祸子。
子行舍于公宫。
夏五月壬申，成子兄弟四乘如公。
子我在幄，出迎之，遂入，闭门。
宦者御之，子行杀宦者。
translation: 
Tian Chengzi was very worried about this and went to court several times to inquire about the situation.
Tian Yang, Lord Jian's charioteer, advised Lord Jian: "Fields and prisons cannot coexist. You have to choose one of them."
Duke Jian didn't listen.
One night during the imperial court, Tian Ni happened to kill someone, so he arrested Tian Ni and sent him to the palace.
The Tian family was very united at this time, so they asked the imprisoned Tian Ni to pretend to be seriously ill, and took the opportunity to have his family visit the prison and bring wine to the guard. The guard got drunk and was killed, and Tian Ni escaped.
The supervisor and the Tian family vowed to reconcile the matter at the Tian family's ancestral hall.
At first, Tian Bao wanted to be Jian Zhi's retainer and asked the doctor Gongsun to recommend him to Jian Zhi. However, Tian Bao decided not to do so when Tian Bao was in mourning.
After that, he finally became a retainer and was favored by the supervisor.
The supervisor said to Tian Bao: I want to expel all the Tian family and make you the head of the Tian family. Is that okay?
Tian Bao replied: I am just an alienated branch of the Tian clan, and there are only a few people in the Tian clan who disobey you, so why expel them all?
Tian Bao then informed Tian about the incident.
Tian Ni said: He is favored by the emperor. If you, Tian Chang, don't take action first, you will suffer disaster.
Tian Ni lived in the king's palace to support him.
On the day of Renshen in the fifth month of summer, brothers Tian Chang took four cars to see Duke Jian.
The eunuch, who was in the tent, came out to meet them and closed the palace door as soon as they entered.
The eunuchs resisted Tian, ​​and Tian Ni killed the eunuchs.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
公与妇人饮酒于檀台，成子迁诸寝。
公执戈将击之，太史子余曰： 非不利也，将除害也。
成子出舍于库，闻公犹怒，将出，曰： 何所无君！
子行拔剑曰： 需，事之贼也。
谁非田宗？
所不杀子者有如田宗。
乃止。子我归，属徒攻闱与大门，皆弗胜，乃出。
田氏追之。
丰丘人执子我以告，杀之郭关。
成子将杀大陆子方，田逆请而免之。
以公命取车于道，出雍门。
田豹与之车，弗受，曰： 逆为余请，豹与余车，余有私焉。
事子我而有私于其雠，何以见鲁、卫之士？
庚辰，田常执简公于俆州。
公曰： 余蚤从御鞅言，不及此。
甲午，田常弑简公于俆州。
translation: 
Jian Gong was drinking with his wife and concubines on the Tandai, and Tian Chang took him to the palace.
Duke Jian picked up the weapon and wanted to fight back. Taishi Ziyu said: Tian Chang is not planning to harm you, but to eliminate harm for you.
Tian Chang came out of the palace and lived in the arsenal. When he heard that Duke Jian was still angry, he wanted to escape and said: "There is no king anywhere!"
Tian Ni drew his sword and said: Hesitation is the root of bad things.
Who among us with the surname Tian cannot be the patriarch of the Tian family?
If you cowardly run away without caring about everyone, my ancestors will not spare you unless I kill you. Tian Changcai stayed.
The supervisor ran home and gathered his disciples to attack all the gates of the palace, but without success, he fled.
The Tian clan members were in hot pursuit.
Someone in Fengqiu caught Jianzhi and reported it, and Tian killed Jianzhi at Guomen.
Tian Chang wanted to kill Dalu Zifang, but Tian Ni interceded for him and was pardoned.
In the name of Mr. Jian, he stopped the car on the road and drove out of Yongmen.
Tian Bao gave him the car, but he didn't want it, saying: "Tian Ni interceded for me. If Tian Bao gave me the car, people would think that I have a personal relationship with Mr. Tian."
I am a retainer who is in charge of prison, but I have secretly colluded with his enemies. How can I run away to meet the scholars of Lu and Wei?
On Gengchen day, Tian Chang arrested Duke Jian in Chuzhou.
Duke Jian said: If I had listened to Tian Yang's words earlier, I would not be in the situation I am today.
On the day of Jiawu, Tian Chang killed Duke Jian in Chuzhou.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
田常乃立简公弟骜，是为平公。
平公即位，田常相之，专齐之政，割齐安平以东为田氏封邑。
平公八年，越灭吴。
二十五年卒，子宣公积立。
宣公五十一年卒，子康公贷立。
田会反廪丘。
康公二年，韩、魏、赵始列为诸侯。
十九年，田常曾孙田和始为诸侯，迁康公海滨。
二十六年，康公卒，吕氏遂绝其祀。
田氏卒有齐国，为齐威王，强于天下。
太史公曰：吾适齐，自泰山属之琅邪，北被于海，膏壤二千里，其民阔达多匿知，其天性也。
以太公之圣，建国本，桓公之盛，修善政，以为诸侯会盟，称伯，不亦宜乎？
洋洋哉，固大国之风也！
translation: 
Tian Chang appointed Ao, the younger brother of Duke Jian, as Lord of Qi, which was called Duke Ping.
After Ping Gong came to the throne, Tian Chang became the prime minister, specializing in the power of Qi State, and divided the vast land east of Anping of Qi State into the territory of the Tian family.
In the eighth year of Ping Gong's reign, the State of Yue destroyed the State of Wu.
In the twenty-fifth year of the reign of Emperor Pinggong, his son Xuan Gongji succeeded him.
In the fifty-first year of Xuangong's reign, Xuangong died and his son Kang Gongdai succeeded to the throne.
Tian Hui rebelled in Linqiu.
In the second year of Kanggong's reign, Han, Zhao and Wei began to become princes.
In the 19th year, Tian Chang's great-grandson Tian He began to become a prince and exiled Kang Gong to the seaside.
In the twenty-sixth year, Duke Kang passed away, and the Lu family stopped offering sacrifices.
The Tian family finally took possession of the Qi State, and when King Qi Wei was king, he became the lord of the world.
Tai Shigong said: When I arrived in Qi, I saw that the land of Qi starts from Mount Tai in the west, connects Langye in the east, and reaches the sea in the north. There are two thousand miles of fertile land in between. Its people are broad-minded and deep and wise. This is their nature.
Because of Taigong's sage, he established the foundation of the country, and because of Huangong's virtue, he implemented good governance, so he summoned the princes to form an alliance and became the overlord. Isn't it logical?
Guangsheng and Boda, indeed have the style of a great country!


