Chunk 0: 
original: 
司马相如者，蜀郡成都人也，字长卿。
少时好读书，学击剑，故其亲名之曰犬子。
相如既学，慕蔺相如之为人，更名相如。
以赀为郎，事孝景帝，为武骑常侍，非其好也。
会景帝不好辞赋，是时梁孝王来朝，从游说之士齐人邹阳、淮阴枚乘、吴庄忌夫子之徒，相如见而说之，因病免，客游梁。
梁孝王令与诸生同舍，相如得与诸生游士居数岁，乃著子虚之赋。
会梁孝王卒，相如归，而家贫，无以自业。
素与临邛令王吉相善，吉曰： 长卿久宦游不遂，而来过我。
於是相如往，舍都亭。
临邛令缪为恭敬，日往朝相如。
相如初尚见之，後称病，使从者谢吉，吉愈益谨肃。
临邛中多富人，而卓王孙家僮八百人，程郑亦数百人，二人乃相谓曰： 令有贵客，为具召之。
并召令。
令既至，卓氏客以百数。
至日中，谒司马长卿，长卿谢病不能往，临邛令不敢尝食，自往迎相如。
相如不得已，彊往，一坐尽倾。
酒酣，临邛令前奏琴曰： 窃闻长卿好之，原以自娱。
相如辞谢，为鼓一再行。
是时卓王孙有女文君新寡，好音，故相如缪与令相重，而以琴心挑之。
相如之临邛，从车骑，雍容间雅甚都；及饮卓氏，弄琴，文君窃从户窥之，心悦而好之，恐不得当也。
既罢，相如乃使人重赐文君侍者通殷勤。
文君夜亡奔相如，相如乃与驰归成都。
translation: 
Sima Xiangru was born in Chengdu, Shu County, and his courtesy name was Changqing.
When he was a boy, he liked to read and learn swordsmanship, so his parents named him Quanzi.
After Sima Xiangru completed his studies, he admired Lin Xiangru's character and changed his name to Xiangru.
Initially, due to his family's wealth, he was awarded the position of Langguan, guarded Emperor Xiao Jing, and became a regular servant of martial arts, but this was not his hobby.
It happened that Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty did not like Ci Fu. At this time, King Liang Xiao came to the capital to see Emperor Jing. He was accompanied by people who were good at lobbying, including Zou Yang from Qijun, Meicheng from Huaiyin, and Mr. Zhuang Ji from Wuxian. Xiangru fell in love with these people when he saw them, so he resigned from his official position on the pretext of illness and lived in Liang State.
King Liang Xiao asked Xiangru and other scholars to live together. Xiangru had the opportunity to get along with scholars and lobbyists for several years, so he wrote "Zixu Fu".
Just when King Liang Xiao died, Xiangru had to return to Chengdu. However, his family was poor and he had no occupation that could support his life.
Xiangru always got along well with Wang Ji, the magistrate of Linqiong County. Wang Ji said: Chang Qing, you have been away from home for a long time and are seeking an official position. It is not satisfactory. You can come to see me.
So Xiangru went to Linqiong and lived in the capital pavilion in the city.
The Linqiong County Magistrate pretended to be respectful and visited Xiangru every day.
At first, Xiangru still met each other with courtesy. Later, he lied about being ill and asked his entourage to refuse Wang Ji's visit. However, Wang Ji was more cautious and respectful.
There are many rich people in Linqiong County. For example, the Sun family of King Zhuo has 800 slaves, and the Cheng Zheng family has hundreds of people. The two discussed with each other and said: The county magistrate has a distinguished guest, and we are going to prepare a banquet for him.
The county magistrate was also invited.
When the county magistrate arrived at the Zhuo family, there were already hundreds of guests in the Zhuo family.
At noon, I went to invite Sima Changqing, but he refused to come, saying that he was ill. Linqiong ordered to see Xiangru not come and did not dare to eat. He went to greet Xiangru himself.
Xiangru had no choice but to come to Zhuo's house. All the guests were amazed and envious of his charisma.
When the wine was in full swing, the Linqiong County Magistrate stepped forward, placed the harp in front of Xiangru, and said, "I heard that Chang Qing likes to play the harp very much, and I hope to listen to a piece of music to cheer you up."
After thanking Xiangru, he played one or two pieces of music.
At this time, Zhuo Wangsun had a daughter named Wenjun, who was newly widowed and loved music. So Xiangru pretended to respect each other with the county magistrate, and secretly aroused her love with the sound of the piano.
When Xiangru came to Qiong, he was followed by carriages and horses. He was dignified in appearance, quiet and elegant, and very generous. When Zhuo Wang and Sun's family were drinking and playing piano music, Zhuo Wenjun secretly looked at him through the crack in the door. He was very happy and liked him very much, but he was afraid that he would not understand his feelings.
After the banquet, Xiangru asked someone to reward Wenjun's waiter with a large sum of money to convey his admiration to her.
So Zhuo Wenjun ran away from home at night and eloped with Xiangru. Xiangru and Wenjun hurried back to Chengdu.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
家居徒四壁立。
卓王孙大怒曰： 女至不材，我不忍杀，不分一钱也。
人或谓王孙，王孙终不听。
文君久之不乐，曰： 长卿第俱如临邛，从昆弟假贷犹足为生，何至自苦如此！
相如与俱之临邛，尽卖其车骑，买一酒舍酤酒，而令文君当炉。
相如身自著犊鼻裈，与保庸杂作，涤器於市中。
卓王孙闻而耻之，为杜门不出。
昆弟诸公更谓王孙曰： 有一男两女，所不足者非财也。
今文君已失身於司马长卿，长卿故倦游，虽贫，其人材足依也，且又令客，独柰何相辱如此！
卓王孙不得已，分予文君僮百人，钱百万，及其嫁时衣被财物。
文君乃与相如归成都，买田宅，为富人。
居久之，蜀人杨得意为狗监，侍上。
上读子虚赋而善之，曰： 朕独不得与此人同时哉！
得意曰： 臣邑人司马相如自言为此赋。
上惊，乃召问相如。
相如曰： 有是。
然此乃诸侯之事，未足观也。
请为天子游猎赋，赋成奏之。
上许，令尚书给笔札。
相如以 子虚 ，虚言也，为楚称； 乌有先生 者，乌有此事也，为齐难； 无是公 者，无是人也，明天子之义。
故空藉此三人为辞，以推天子诸侯之苑囿。
其卒章归之於节俭，因以风谏。
奏之天子，天子大说。
其辞曰：
楚使子虚使於齐，齐王悉发境内之士，备车骑之众，与使者出田。
田罢，子虚过詑乌有先生，而无是公在焉。
坐定，乌有先生问曰： 今日田乐乎？
子虚曰： 乐。  获多乎？
曰： 少。
然则何乐？
曰： 仆乐齐王之欲夸仆以车骑之众，而仆对以云梦之事也。
曰： 可得闻乎？ 子虚曰： 可。
王驾车千乘，选徒万骑，田於海滨。
translation: 
When I entered the house, I saw nothing but four walls.
When Zhuo Wangsun learned about his daughter's elopement, he was furious and said: "My daughter is extremely unqualified. I can't bear to hurt her, but I won't give her a cent either."
Some people tried to persuade Zhuo Wangsun, but he still refused to listen.
After a long time, Wenjun felt unhappy and said: "Chang Qing, as long as you go to Linqiong with me, you can make a living by borrowing money from your brothers. Why have you made yourself so miserable?"
Xiangru came to Linqiong with Wenjun, sold all his carriages and horses, and bought a hotel to sell wine.
He also asked Wenjun to personally take charge of the wine shop business in Longqian, while he put on his calf-nosed trousers and worked with the employees, washing wine vessels in the busy city.
When Zhuo Wangsun heard about this, he felt so ashamed that he stayed behind closed doors.
Some brothers and elders talked to Zhuo Wangsun and said, "You have a son and two daughters. What the family lacks is not money."
Now, Wenjun has become the wife of Sima Changqing. Changqing was tired of running away from home. Although he was poor, he was indeed a talent and could be completely relied on. Besides, he is a distinguished guest of the county magistrate, why do you despise him like this!
Zhuo Wangsun had no choice but to give Wenjun 100 slaves, 1 million in money, clothes, bedding and various belongings when she got married.
Wenjun returned to Chengdu with Xiangru, bought land and houses, and became a wealthy family.
After a long period of time, Yang Deyi, a native of Shu County, served as a dog supervisor to serve the emperor.
One day, Emperor Wu read "Zixu Fu" and thought it was well written. He said: "I cannot be at the same time as this author."
Yang Deyi said: My fellow countryman Sima Xiangru claimed that he wrote this poem.
Emperor Wu was very surprised and summoned Xiangru to ask.
Xiangru said: There is such a thing.
However, this Fu only describes the affairs of the princes and is not worth reading.
Please ask me to write a poem about the emperor's hunting trip. After the poem is completed, I will present it to the emperor.
Emperor Wu agreed and ordered the minister to give him a pen and wooden slips.
Xiangru used the fictitious words "Zixu" to state the beauty of the Chu State; "Mr. Wu You" means that there is no such thing, and uses it to refute the Chu State for the Qi State; "Wu Shi Gong" means that there is no such person to clarify the principle of being the emperor.
Therefore, an article was written under the guise of these three people to deduce the prosperous scenes of the emperor and the princes.
The theme of the last chapter of the Fu comes down to frugality, in order to exhort the emperor.
After presenting the gift to the emperor, the emperor was very happy.
The text of the poem says:
The King of Chu sent Zixu as an envoy to the State of Qi. The King of Qi dispatched all the soldiers in the territory, prepared many chariots and horses, and went hunting with the envoy.
After the hunting was over, Zixu went to visit Mr. Wu You and boasted about the incident to him. Wu Shigong happened to be present.
After everyone sat down, Mr. Wu You asked Zixu: "Are you happy hunting today?"
Zixu said: Happy. Is there a lot of prey?
Zixu replied: Very few.
If this is the case, where does the joy come from?
Zixu replied: I am happy that King Qi wanted to boast to me about his many chariots and horses, but I answered him with the grand scene of King Chu hunting in Yunmengze.
Mr. Wuyou said: Can you tell me and listen? Zixu said, "Okay."
The King of Qi commanded thousands of chariots and selected tens of thousands of riders to hunt on the shores of the East China Sea.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
列卒满泽，罘罔弥山，揜兔辚鹿，射麋脚麟。
鹜於盐浦，割鲜染轮。
射中获多，矜而自功。
顾谓仆曰： 楚亦有平原广泽游猎之地饶乐若此者乎？
楚王之猎何与寡人？
仆下车对曰： 臣，楚国之鄙人也，幸得宿卫十有馀年，时从出游，游於後园，览於有无，然犹未能遍睹也，又恶足以言其外泽者乎！
齐王曰： 虽然，略以子之所闻见而言之。
仆对曰： 唯唯。臣闻楚有七泽，尝见其一，未睹其馀也。
臣之所见，盖特其小小者耳，名曰云梦。
云梦者，方九百里，其中有山焉。
其山则盘纡岪郁，隆崇嵂崒；岑岩参差，日月蔽亏；交错纠纷，上干青云；罢池陂纮，下属江河。
其土则丹青赭垩，雌黄白附，锡碧金银，众色炫燿，照烂龙鳞。
其石则赤玉玫瑰，琳渼琨珸，瑊玏玄厉，萩石武夫。
其东则有蕙圃衡兰，芷若射干，穹穷昌蒲，江离麋芜，诸蔗猼且。
其南则有平原广泽，登降纮靡，案衍坛曼，缘以大江，限以巫山。
其高燥则生葴蓇苞荔，薛莎青薠。
其卑湿则生藏莨蒹葭，东蔷雕胡，莲藕菰芦，菴轩芋，物居之，不可胜图。
其西则有涌泉清池，激水推移；外发芙蓉菱华，内隐钜石白沙。
其中则有神龟蛟鼍，玳瑁鳖鼋。
其北则有阴林巨树，楩棻豫章，桂椒木兰，离硃杨，楂梸甹栗，橘柚芬芳。
其上则有赤猿蠷蝚，鹓雏孔鸾，腾远射干。
其下则有白虎玄豹，蟃蜒貙豻，兕象野犀，穷奇獌狿。
translation: 
Soldiers lined up all over the marshes, animal traps covered the hills, and the animal nets covered the hares. The wheels crushed the big deer to death, shot the elk, and caught the calf of Lin.
The chariots and riders galloped on the salt flats by the sea, and the blood of the slaughtered animals stained the wheels red.
He shot at the beasts and captured a lot of food, and the king of Qi proudly boasted about his achievements.
He looked back at me and said: Chu State also has plains and vast swamps for hunting and hunting. Can it make people have such fun?
Who has more fun, the King of Chu's safari, or me?
I got out of the car and replied, "My dear minister, I am just a humble man from Chu State, but I have been lucky enough to serve as a guard in the Chu Palace for more than ten years. I often go hunting with the King of Chu. The hunting ground is in the back garden of the palace. I can enjoy the surrounding scenery by the way, but I cannot see all the grand scenes. How can I talk about the grand scenery of Daze outside the inner garden?"
King Qi said: Even so, please briefly talk about what you have seen and heard!  I replied: Yes, yes.
I heard that there are seven great lakes in Chu State. I have seen one of them, but not the others.
The one I saw is just the smallest of the seven great swamps, named Yunmeng.
Yunmeng has a radius of 900 miles, and there are mountains in it.
The mountains are winding and twisting, towering and dangerous, with steep peaks and jagged peaks; the sun and moon are either completely obscured or partially obscured; the mountains are scattered, overlapping and disorderly, rising straight up to the blue clouds; the slopes are continuous and sloping, and rivers are connected below.
The soil contained cinnabar, azurite, terracotta, chalk, orpiment, lime, tin ore, jasper, gold, silver, all kinds of colors, dazzling and shining like dragon scales.
The stones there include red jade, rose gemstones, Lin, Min, Kunjue, Yajue, black stones for sharpening, half-white and half-red stones, and stones with red ground and white inscriptions.
There are flowerbeds of cymbidium in the east, in which grow Duheng, orchid, Angelica dahurica, Duruo, Shegan, Ligusticum, calamus, cogongrass, milfoil, sugar cane, and plantain.
To the south there are plains and swamps. The terrain is uneven and sloping. The low-lying land is vast and flat, extending along the river until Wushan is the boundary.
In that high and dry place, there grow blueberries, oat-shaped grasses, bracts, lychees, mugwort, sedges and sedges.
In the low and humid land, there grow foxtail grass, reeds, guinea roses, wild rice, lotus, lotus root, gourds, angustifolia, wormwood, and countless wheat trees growing here.
To the west, there are surging springs, clear pools, and surging water waves. The back waves hit the front waves and rolled forward; lotus flowers and water chestnuts bloomed on the water surface, and huge rocks and white sand were hidden under the water surface.
There are divine turtles, dragon snakes, pig dragons, hawksbill turtles, turtles and turtles in the water.
To the north, there are forests and huge trees in the north of the mountain: cypress trees, nanmu, camphor trees, osmanthus trees, pepper trees, magnolias, yellow tillers, sorbus trees, red-stemmed willows, hawthorn trees, black date trees, orange trees, grapefruit trees, and the fragrance is far overflowing.
There are red apes, macaques, phoenixes, peacocks, phoenixes, jumping monkeys and Shegan in those trees.
Under the trees, there are white tigers, black panthers, crickets, roe deer, female rhinoceros, elephants, wild rhinoceros, Qiongqi, and roe deer.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
於是乃使专诸之伦，手格此兽。
楚王乃驾驯驳之驷，乘雕玉之舆，靡鱼须之桡旃，曳明月之珠旗，建干将之雄戟，左乌嗥之雕弓，右夏服之劲箭；阳子骖乘，纤阿为御；案节未舒，即陵狡兽，辚邛邛，槅距虚，轶野马而湜騊駼，乘遗风而射游骐；儵眒凄浰，雷动熛至，星流霆击，弓不虚发，中必决眦，洞胸达腋，绝乎心系，获若雨兽，揜草蔽地。
於是楚王乃弭节裴回，翱翔容与，览乎阴林，观壮士之暴怒，与猛兽之恐惧，徼受诎，殚睹物之变态。
於是郑女曼姬，被阿锡，揄纻缟，櫜纤罗，垂雾縠；襞积褰绉，纡徐委曲，郁桡谿谷；衯衯裶裶，扬袘恤削，蜚纤垂髾；扶与猗靡，吸呷萃蔡，下摩兰蕙，上拂羽盖，错翡翠之威蕤，缪绕玉绥；缥乎忽忽，若神仙之仿佛。  於是乃相与獠於蕙圃，媻珊勃窣上金隄，揜翡翠，射鵕璘，微矰出，纤缴施，弋白鹄，连驾鹅，双鸧下，玄鹤加。怠而後发，游於清池；浮文鹢，扬桂枻，张翠帷，建羽盖，罔玳瑁，钓紫贝；摐金鼓，吹鸣籁，榜人歌，声流喝，水蟲骇，波鸿沸，涌泉起，奔扬会，礧石相击，硠硠潏潏，若雷霆之声，闻乎数百里之外。  将息獠者，击灵鼓，起烽燧，车案行，骑就队，纚乎淫淫，班乎裔裔。
於是楚王乃登阳云之台，泊乎无为，澹乎自持，勺药之和具而後御之。
不若大王终日驰骋而不下舆，脟割轮淬，自以为娱。
臣窃观之，齐殆不如。
於是王默然无以应仆也。
乌有先生曰： 是何言之过也！
足下不远千里，来况齐国，王悉发境内之士，而备车骑之众，以出田，乃欲戮力致获，以娱左右也，何名为夸哉！
问楚地之有无者，原闻大国之风烈，先生之馀论也。
今足下不称楚王之德厚，而盛推云梦以为高，奢言淫乐而显侈靡，窃为足下不取也。
必若所言，固非楚国之美也。
有而言之，是章君之恶；无而言之，是害足下之信。章君之恶而伤私义，二者无一可，而先生行之，必且轻於齐而累於楚矣。
且齐东陼巨海，南有琅邪，观乎成山，射乎之罘，浮勃澥，游孟诸，邪与肃慎为邻，右以汤谷为界，秋田乎青丘，傍徨乎海外，吞若云梦者八九，其於胸中曾不蒂芥。
若乃俶傥瑰伟，异方殊类，珍怪鸟兽，万端鳞萃，充仞其中者，不可胜记，禹不能名，契不能计。
然在诸侯之位，不敢言游戏之乐，苑囿之大；先生又见客，是以王辞而不复，何为无用应哉！
无是公听然而笑曰： 楚则失矣，齐亦未为得也。
夫使诸侯纳贡者，非为财币，所以述职也；封疆画界者，非为守御，所以禁淫也。
今齐列为东籓，而外私肃慎，捐国逾限，越海而田，其於义故未可也。
且二君之论，不务明君臣之义而正诸侯之礼，徒事争游猎之乐，苑囿之大，欲以奢侈相胜，荒淫相越，此不可以扬名发誉，而適足以贬君自损也。
且夫齐楚之事又焉足道邪！
君未睹夫巨丽也，独不闻天子之上林乎？
translation: 
So he sent warriors like Zhuan Zhu to kill these beasts with bare hands.
The king of Chu then rode a tamed mixed-haired horse, rode a jade-carved chariot, waved a cranked flag with fish whiskers as spikes, and waved a flag decorated with bright moon pearls.
Holding high the sharp three-edged halberd, the left hand holds the engraved Wuhuoming bow, and the right hand holds the powerful arrow in Xia Hui. Bole is the charioteer, and Xian'a is the charioteer.
The chariots moved in ranks, and the cavalry returned to their ranks.
The team continued, neatly and slowly moving forward. So, the King of Chu climbed onto the Yangyun Tower, showing a calm and calm demeanor, maintaining a quiet and comfortable mood.
After the food mixed with peony was prepared, it was presented to the King of Chu for tasting. Unlike the king who runs around all day long, never leaving the car, even cutting pieces of meat, roasting and eating them between the wheels, and taking pleasure in himself.
I thought Qi might not be as good as Chu.
So King Qi was silent and had no words to answer me.
Mr. Wuyou said: Why is this so exaggerated?
You have traveled thousands of miles to come and benefit the State of Qi. The King of Qi mobilized all the soldiers in the territory, prepared many chariots and horses, and went hunting with you. He wanted to work together to hunt animals and make you feel happy. How can it be called boasting?
I asked Chu whether there was any safari in Pingyuan Guangze because I wanted to hear about Chu’s political education and glorious achievements, as well as Mr.’s kind words.
Now, instead of praising the King of Chu for his generous virtues, you talk about Yun Mengze's lofty views, talk about his licentious activities, and show off your extravagance and extravagance. I privately think that you should not do this.
If it is really what you said, it is not a beautiful thing for Chu State.
If the Chu State has these things, and you speak of them, you will publicize the ugliness of the king; if the Chu State does not have these things, but you say that they do, it will damage your reputation, publicize the ugliness of the king, and damage your own credibility. Neither of these two things can be done, but you did it. This will definitely be despised by Qi State, and the reputation of Chu State will also be affected.
Moreover, Qi State faces the sea to the east and Langya Mountain to the south. You can enjoy the beautiful scenery in Chengshan Mountain, hunt in Zhifu Mountain, go boating in the Bohai Sea, and hunt in Mengzhuze. It is adjacent to Sushen in the northeast, and Yugu is the boundary on the left. In autumn, you can hunt in Qingqiu and roam freely overseas. For a Daze like Yunmeng, even if he swallowed eight or nine, he would not feel any congestion in his chest.
As for the extraordinary things, local specialties, rare birds and beasts, all things gathered together, like fish scales gathered together, filling it, it was indescribable, even Yu the Great could not distinguish their names, and the contract could not count their number.
However, the King of Qi was in the position of a prince and did not dare to talk about the joy of hunting and playing, and the vastness of the garden. Your husband is a guest who is being treated as a distinguished guest, so the King of Qi did not answer you with any words. How can you say that he is speechless?
Wu Shigong smiled and said: Chu State is wrong, Qi State may not be right either.
The reason why the emperor asked the princes to pay tribute was not for the sake of wealth, but to allow them to go to the court to state their performance of duties; therefore, the boundaries of the feudal state were divided not to guard the borders, but to prevent the princes from violating laws and regulations.
Nowadays, Qi is a vassal state in the east, but it secretly communicates with Su Shen abroad, abandons the feudal state, crosses the national border, travels across the ocean, and goes hunting in Qingqiu. This behavior is not allowed according to the moral principles that princes should abide by.
Moreover, the remarks of you two gentlemen are not trying to clarify the normal relationship between monarch and ministers, nor are they correcting the etiquette of princes. They are just arguing about the joy of hunting and the vastness of the garden, trying to compete with luxury and debauchery. Not only will this not make your monarch famous or improve his reputation, but it will just reduce his reputation and you will suffer losses.
Besides, how can the things of Qi and Chu be praised?
Gentlemen who have not seen that vast and magnificent scene with their own eyes, haven’t they heard of the Emperor’s Shanglin Garden?


Chunk 4: 
original: 
左苍梧，右西极，丹水更其南，紫渊径其北；终始霸浐，出入泾渭；酆鄗潦潏，纡馀委蛇，经营乎其内。
荡荡兮八川分流，相背而异态。东西南北，驰骛往来，出乎椒丘之阙，行乎洲淤之浦，径乎桂林之中，过乎泱莽之野。
汨乎浑流，顺阿而下，赴隘陕之口。
触穹石，激堆埼，沸乎暴怒，汹涌滂晞，滭浡滵汩，湢测泌瀄，横流逆折，转腾潎洌，澎濞沆瀣，穹隆云挠，蜿胶戾，逾波趋浥，莅莅下濑，批壧旻壅，饹扬滞沛，临坻注壑，瀺灂霣坠，湛湛隐隐，砰磅訇潏，潏潏淈淈，湁潗鼎沸，驰波跳沫，汩槃漂疾，悠远长怀，寂漻无声，肆乎永归。
然後灝溔潢漾，安翔徐徊，翯乎滈々，东注大湖，衍溢陂池。
於是乎蛟龙赤螭，靧亸螹离，鰅騄鰬魠，禺禺鱋魶，揵鳍擢尾，振鳞奋翼，潜处于深岩；鱼鳖讙声，万物众夥，明月珠子，玓瓅江靡，蜀石黄鶗，水玉磊砢，磷磷烂烂，采色霅旰，丛积乎其中。
鸿鹄鹔鸨，磻蟏鸀，鴂目，烦鹜鷛醁，澥昉鸕，群浮乎其上。
汎淫泛滥，随风澹淡，与波摇荡，掩薄草渚，唼喋菁藻，咀嚼菱藕。
於是乎崇山巃嵸，崔巍嵯峨，深林钜木，崭岩嵾嵯，九嵏、嶻，南山峨峨，岩纮甗锜，嶊崣崛崎，振谿通谷，蹇产沟渎，谽呀豁閜，轗陵别岛，崴磈岧瘣，丘虚崛嶮，隐辚郁鹍，登降施靡，陂池貏豸，沇溶淫鬻，散涣夷陆，亭皋千里，靡不被筑。
掩以绿蕙，被以江离，糅以蘼芜，杂以流夷。尃结缕，欑戾莎，揭车衡兰，本射干，茈姜蘘荷，葴橙若荪，鲜枝黄砾，蒋芧青薠，布濩闳泽，延曼太原，丽靡广衍，应风披靡，吐芳扬烈，郁郁斐斐，众香发越，肸蚃布写，餔苾勃。 於是乎周览泛观，瞋盼轧沕，芒芒恍忽，视之无端，察之无崖。
日出东沼，入於西陂。
translation: 
On the left side of Shanglin Garden is Cangwu, and on the right is Xiji. Danshui flows to its south and Ziyuan flows to its north; Ba River and Chan River never flow out of Shanglin Garden, while Jing River and Wei River flow in and out; Feng River, Ha River, Liao River and Liao River twist and turn in Shanglin Garden.
The eight mighty rivers flow in opposite directions and have different postures, running east, west, north and south, flowing from the Jiaoqiu Valley where two mountains face each other, passing through small islets with piles of sand and gravel, passing through forests of osmanthus trees, and flowing through the boundless wilderness.
The water flowed swiftly and powerfully, rushing down the high hills to the narrow mountain pass.
Hitting the boulders and stirring up the zigzag river bank formed by the sand and stones, the water surged up, furious and surging. The river is surging, the current is fast, the waves are crashing and banging; the cross-current is swirling, turning and rushing, making a gurgling sound.
The rapids hit the uneven river bank, roaring and shaking, the water was high, the waves swirled, curled like clouds, and meandered.
Then, the boundless water, twisting and turning slowly and shining silver, rushed to the east and poured into Taihu Lake. The lake overflowed and flowed into the nearby pond. Therefore, Jiaolong, Red Chi, , Li, 鰰, bighead carp, 鰬, 魠, 纺纺, 鱋, and 魶 all raised their dorsal fins, shook their tails, trembled their scales, raised their fins, and lurked in the abyss and rocky valley. Fish and turtles are jumping and making noise, and all living things are gathering in groups. The bright moon and beads shine brightly on the riverside. Shu stones, yellow stones, and crystal stones are piled up layer by layer, dazzling and shining, and accumulated in the water.
Swans, grebes, bustards, geese, grebes, eagles, ibises, owls, grebes, grebes, corvettes, all float in groups on the water.
Let the river float across the river, and the birds drift with the wind, ride the waves, and sway freely. Sometimes, flocks of birds gather on the sandbanks covered with weeds, chattering with cyanine and algae in their mouths, and chewing water chestnuts and lotus roots in their mouths.
So the mountains stood tall and straight, majestic and majestic. Tall trees grow in the vast mountain forests. The mountains are high and steep, with uneven heights.
The ground is covered with sedge and cymbidium, covered with gracilaria, interspersed with sedge and sedge, and covered with zodiac. Dark green sedges grow together, as well as sedge, sedge, and orchid grass. , Manuscript, Shegan, Pijiang, Zanghe, Pi, Orange, Duruo, Sunflower, Fresh Branch, Yellow, Chiang, Piscine, and Green Coriander, all over the vast swamps and spreading on the vast plains. The flowers and plants stretch endlessly, spread widely and multiply, falling in the breeze, revealing their fragrance, exuding a strong fragrance, lush and fragrant, refreshing, and making people feel more fragrant. So I browsed around and watched extensively. Even if I opened my eyes wide, I couldn't make out clearly. I could only see a vast expanse, blurring in and out. Looking around, there was no limit. If I looked carefully, I saw it was vast and boundless.
In the morning, the sun rises from the pond in the east of the garden, and in the evening, the sun sets in the pond in the west of the garden.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
其南则隆冬生长，踊水跃波；兽则偁旄敠犛，沈牛麈麋，赤首圜题，穷奇象犀。
其北则盛夏含冻裂地，涉冰揭河；兽则麒麟角湲，騊駼橐扆，蛩蛩驒騱，駃騠驴骡。
於是乎离宫别馆，弥山跨谷，高廊四注，重坐曲阁，华榱璧珰，辇道纚属，步朓周流，长途中宿。
夷颙筑堂，累台增成，岩穾洞房，俯杳眇而无见，仰攀橑而扪天，奔星更於闺闼，宛虹拖於楯轩。
青虬蚴蟉於东箱，象舆婉蝉於西清，灵圉燕於间观，偓佺之伦暴於南荣，醴泉涌於清室，通川过乎中庭。
槃石裖崖，嵚岩倚倾，嵯峨磼酺，刻削峥嵘，玫瑰碧琳，珊瑚丛生，渼玉旁唐，瑸斒文鳞，赤瑕驳荦，杂臿其间，垂绥琬琰，和氏出焉。
於是乎卢橘夏孰，黄甘橙楱，枇杷橪柿，楟柰厚朴，甹枣杨梅，樱桃蒲陶，隐夫郁棣，榙濛荔枝，罗乎後宫，列乎北园。
崒丘陵，下平原，扬翠叶，杌紫茎，发红华，秀硃荣，煌煌扈扈，照曜钜野。
沙棠栎櫧，华氾弇栌，留落胥馀，仁频并闾，欃檀木兰，豫章女贞，长千仞，大连抱，夸条直暢，实叶葰茂，攒立丛倚，连卷累佹，崔错骫，阬衡閜砢，垂条扶於，落英幡纚，纷容萧蔘，旖旎从风，浏莅吸，盖象金石之声，管籥之音。
柴池茈虒，旋环後宫，杂遝累辑，被山缘谷，循阪下隰，视之无端，究之无穷。
於是玄猿素雌，蜼玃飞鸓，蛭蜩蠗蝚，螹胡蛫，栖息乎其间；长啸哀鸣，翩幡互经，夭蟜枝格，偃蹇杪颠。
translation: 
In the south of the garden, vegetation still grows even in the harsh winter, and the river surges and churns; the wild animals here include the yak, the yak, the tapir, the yak, the ox, the stag, the elk, the red head, the round title, the qiongqi, the elephant, and the rhinoceros.
In the north of the garden, the river freezes in midsummer and the ground cracks. You can cross the river just by lifting up your clothes. The wild beasts here include unicorn, horn, eagle, eagle, cricket, eagle, eagle, donkey, and mule.
So the palace and villas were spread all over the hillsides and across the valleys. The tall corridors are connected on all sides, and the double floors and rooms are connected by twists and turns of the pavilions. The rafters are painted with flowers and the tiles are decorated with jade. The chariot road is endless, traveling around the corridor. The journey is long, so you must stay in the middle.
The mountains were flattened, palaces were built, and layers of terraces and pavilions were built. There were deep chambers at the bottom of the rocks connected to them. Looking down at the bottom of the mountain, you can see nothing in the distance. Looking up at the sky, you can touch the sky by climbing up to the rafters. Shooting stars flashed past the palace gate, and curved rainbows hung across the window panels and railings.
The green Qiu meanders in the east chamber, and the cart pulled by the elephant walks in the quiet west chamber. The gods rest in the quiet pavilion, and the immortals like us bathe in the sunshine under the southern eaves. Sweet spring water gushes out from the clear room, and the flowing river flows through the courtyard. The river bank is trimmed with huge rocks, which is high, dangerous and uneven.
The rocks are towering and strange, as if they were carved by craftsmen.
Therefore, oranges matured in the summer, and oranges, grapefruits, jellyberries, loquats, jujubes, persimmons, sorbets, magnolia bark, jujubes, bayberries, cherries, grapes, Changdi, quince, lychees and other fruit trees grew in the harem and were planted in the North Garden, stretching to the hills and down to the plains.
The emerald green leaves are swaying, the purple stems are swaying, the red flowers are blooming, and the small scarlet flowers are showing off. The brilliance is prosperous and illuminates the vast wilderness.
There are sand fruit, oak, oak, birch, maple, ginkgo, cotinus, pomegranate, coconut tree, betel nut tree, betel palm, sandalwood, magnolia, sleeper, camphor wood, holly. Some trees are as high as a thousand feet, so thick that several people can hug them. The flowers and branches grow freely and stretched, and the fruits and leaves are huge and dense. Some are gathered together in one place, and some are clustered together. The branches are connected and curled, intertwined and overlapped, lush and intertwined, entangled, held high and horizontal, leaning on each other, the drooping branches spread out, falling flowers flying; the trees are tall and lush, swaying in the wind, graceful and graceful; the wind blows on the grass and trees, making a mournful sound, like the sound of bells, like the sound of pipes.
Trees of varying heights surround the harem; numerous overlapping grasses and trees cover the mountains and fields, growing along the valleys, along the slopes, and down to the low and humid land. As far as the eye can see, there is no limit, and if you look closely, it is endless.
Therefore, black apes and white female monkeys, snub-nosed vervets, big female monkeys, small flying squirrels, flying leeches, tree-climbing squirrels, macaques, monkey-like beards, dog-like apes, and monkey-like larvae all live in the forest, some roaring, some wailing, jumping up and down, as light as flying, interacting with each other, playing together among the branches, bending and twisting, and climbing up to the treetops.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
於是乎隃绝梁，腾殊榛，捷垂条，踔稀间，牢落陆离，烂曼远迁。
若此辈者，数千百处。嬉游往来，宫宿馆舍，庖厨不徙，後宫不移，百官备具。
於是乎背秋涉冬，天子校猎。
乘镂象，六玉虬，拖蜺旌，靡云旗，前皮轩，後道游；孙叔奉辔，卫公骖乘，扈从横行，出乎四校之中。
鼓严簿，纵獠者，江河为阹，泰山为橹，车骑雷起，隐天动地，先後陆离，离散别追，淫淫裔裔，缘陵流泽，云布雨施。
生貔豹，搏豺狼，手熊罴，足野羊，蒙鹖苏，绔白虎，被豳文，跨野马。
陵三颙之危，下碛历之坻；俓鷟赴险，越壑厉水。
推蜚廉，弄解豸，格瑕蛤，鋋猛氏，罥騕褭，射封豕。
箭不苟害，解脰陷脑；弓不虚发，应声而倒。
於是乎乘舆弥节裴回，翱翔往来，睨部曲之进退，览将率之变态。
然後浸潭促节，儵夐远去，流离轻禽，槅履狡兽，轊白鹿，捷狡兔，轶赤电，遗光燿，追怪物，出宇宙，弯繁弱，满白羽，射游枭，栎蜚虡，择肉後发，先中命处，弦矢分，艺殪仆。
然後扬节而上浮，陵惊风，历骇梠，乘虚无，与神俱，辚玄鹤，乱昆鸡。遒孔鸾，促鵕璘，拂鹥鸟，捎凤皇，捷鸳雏，掩焦明。
道尽涂殚，回车而还。
招摇乎襄羊，降集乎北纮，率乎直指，闇乎反乡。
蹶石，历封峦，过乂鹊，望露寒，下棠梨，息宜春，西驰宣曲，濯鹢牛首，登龙台，掩细柳，观士大夫之勤略，钧獠者之所得获。
徒车之所辚轹，乘骑之所蹂若，人民之所蹈騃，与其穷极倦，惊惮慴伏，不被创刃而死者，佗佗籍籍，填阬满谷，揜平弥泽。
translation: 
So I jumped over the broken bridge, jumped over the strange forest, picked up the drooping branches, or scattered and ran, or gathered together in confusion, and scattered away.
There are thousands of places like this, where you can come and play, stay in the palace, rest in the annex, the kitchen does not need to be moved, the harem and concubines do not need to follow, and all civil and military officials are ready.
So from autumn to winter, the emperor began to hunt, riding in a car decorated with ivory, driving six white horned dragons, waving colorful flags and waving cloud flags.
A car covered with tiger skins opened the way in front, and a tour guide car escorted behind. Uncle Sun held the bridle and drove the chariot, and Duke Wei served as the charioteer. The bodyguards escorting the Emperor did not follow the right path and moved among the four schools.
Beating the drums in the dense turret, the hunters attack with abandon; the rivers are the hunting fences, and the mountains are the watchtowers. The carriages and horses were galloping, like thunder suddenly rising, shaking the sky and the earth. The hunters dispersed, each chasing his own target. Hunters are marching in a stream, along the mountains and swamps, like clouds and mist, like heavy rain.
Capture leopards alive, fight jackals, kill bears with bare hands, and trample wild sheep. The hunter wears a hat decorated with a stork's tail, trousers with a painting of a white tiger, striped clothes, and rides a wild horse.
Climb to the top of three mountains side by side, walk down rugged slopes, go straight to steep and dangerous peaks, cross valleys and wading in rivers.
They attacked Feilian in a platoon, arranged for the left and right to untie the pigs, killed the Xia clams, stabbed the Meng family with spears, used ropes to trip up the wild boar, and shot the big wild boars.
Arrows are not meant to kill wild beasts at will. When one arrow is shot, it will break the neck and pierce the brain. The bow is not empty, and all the wild beasts fall down in response.
So the emperor rode in his car, wandering slowly and freely, watching the advancement and retreat of the soldiers, and appreciating the general's adapting attitude.
Its speed is so fast that it surpasses the red lightning and leaves the electric light behind. Chase monsters and escape the universe. He bent a good, complex and weak bow, stretched out his arrows filled with white feathers, shot at the swimming owl, and knocked down the dragonfly. Choose a fat beast and shoot the arrow, hitting it exactly where you expect it to.
The bow and arrow separated, and the prey hit by the arrow fell to the ground. Then, the emperor's chariot floated up with its banner raised high, riding the strong wind, overcoming the violent storm, and ascended into the sky to be with the gods. They trampled black cranes, disturbed pheasants, hunted peacocks and luan birds at close range, caught phoenixes, shot down phoenixes, beat phoenixes with bamboo poles, quickly snatched mandarin duck chicks, and captured Jiao Ming.
It wasn't until the end of the road that I turned around and headed back.
Wandering freely, landed in the far north of Shanglinyuan. Go straight ahead and suddenly return to the Imperial Township.
Stepping onto the stone tower, passing by Fengluan Mountain, passing by the magpie, I looked at Lu Han. Next, we arrived at Tangli Palace, rested at Yichun Palace, and then rushed to Xuanqu Palace to the west of Kunming Pool. We rowed a boat decorated with hawks and rippled in Niu Shou Pool. Then go up to Longtai Temple and rest at Xiliu Temple. Observe the hard work and harvest of the scholar-officials, and evenly distribute the prey captured by the hunters.
As for those trampled to death by infantry and chariots, those trampled to death by cavalry, those trampled to death by ministers and their entourage, as well as those beasts that were cornered, exhausted, frightened and fell to the ground, and died without being wounded by the blade, their corpses were crisscrossed, filled the valleys, covered the plains, and filled the swamps, countless of them.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
於是乎游戏懈怠，置酒乎昊天之台，张乐乎轇輵之宇；撞千石之钟，立万石之钜；建翠华之旗，树灵鼍之鼓。奏陶唐氏之舞，听葛天氏之歌，千人唱，万人和，山陵为之震动，川谷为之荡波。
巴俞宋蔡，淮南于遮，文成颠歌，族举递奏，金鼓迭起，铿鎗铛剸，洞心骇耳。
荆吴郑卫之声，韶濩武象之乐，阴淫案衍之音，鄢郢缤纷，激楚结风，俳优侏儒，狄鞮之倡，所以娱耳目而乐心意者，丽靡烂漫於前，靡曼美色於後。
若夫青琴宓妃之徒，绝殊离俗，姣冶嫺都，靓庄刻饬，便嬛绰约，柔桡嬛嬛，妩媚佺弱；抴独茧之褕袘，眇阎易以戌削，编姺徶蘋，与世殊服；芬香沤郁，酷烈淑郁；皓齿粲烂，宜笑旳皪；长眉连娟，微睇釂藐；色授魂与，心愉於侧。 於是酒中乐酣，天子芒然而思，似若有亡。曰： 嗟乎，此泰奢侈！
朕以览听馀间，无事弃日，顺天道以杀伐，时休息於此，恐後世靡丽，遂往而不反，非所以为继嗣创业垂统也。
於是乃解酒罢猎，而命有司曰： 地可以垦辟，悉为农郊，以赡萌隶；隤墙填堑，使山泽之民得至焉。
实陂池而勿禁，虚宫观而勿仞。
发仓廪以振贫穷，补不足，恤鳏寡，存孤独。
出德号，省刑罚，改制度，易服色，更正朔，与天下为始。
於是历吉日以齐戒，袭朝衣，乘法驾，建华旗，鸣玉鸾，游乎六艺之囿，骛乎仁义之涂，览观春秋之林，射貍首，兼驺虞，弋玄鹤，建干戚，载云鶒，揜群雅，悲伐檀，乐乐胥，修容乎礼园，翱翔乎书圃，述易道，放怪兽，登明堂，坐清庙，恣群臣，奏得失，四海之内，靡不受获。
於斯之时，天下大说，乡风而听，随流而化，喟然兴道而迁义，刑错而不用，德隆乎三皇，功羡於五帝。若此，故猎乃可喜也。
translation: 
So tired of playing and playing, we held banquets on the pavilions that connected with the sky, and played music in the vast and boundless world. The bell struck thousands of stones, and the bell frame of ten thousand stones was erected; the flag decorated with green feathers was held high, and the big drum made of Lingmao skin was set up; the dance music of Yao was played, and the music of Ge Tianshi was listened to; thousands of people sang together, and ten thousand people were in harmony; the mountains and mausoleums were shaken by the singing, and the water of the rivers was stirred up.
Dances from Bayu, songs from Song and Cai, "Yuzhe" from Huainan, and folk songs from Wencheng and Yunnan were all presented simultaneously and played in turn. The sound of bells and drums came and went, clanging and clanging, shocking and deafening.
The songs of Jing, Wu, Zheng, and Wei, the music of "Shao", "Yi", "Wu", and "Xiang", the indulgent music, the elegant dances of Yan and Ying areas, the high and exciting sounds of "Ji Chu" that can stir up the wind, the performances of actors and dwarfs, the music of Xirong, everything that can be used to make the ears and eyes happy and the mood happy.
Beautiful and sweet music echoed in front of the king, and a beautiful woman with delicate skin stood behind the king.
During my free time in governing the country, I did not want to waste my time, so I followed the way of heaven and came to Shanglin Garden to hunt wild animals and sometimes rest here. For fear of extravagance and extravagance, future generations will continue to follow this path and refuse to stop. This is not an act that will create merit and carry forward the tradition for future generations.
So he canceled the banquet, stopped hunting, and ordered the officials in charge to say: All the land that can be cultivated will be turned into farmland to support the people of Li. Tear down the walls and fill up the trenches so that people in the countryside can come here to make a living.
Even if the Pi Pond is full of fishermen, no one will stop them, and if the palace is free, no one will move in.
Open the granaries, provide relief to the poor people, provide insufficient subsidies, support widows and widowers, and comfort orphans and the elderly without children.
Issue decrees to show kindness to the people, reduce penalties, change systems, change clothes, change the calendar, and start from scratch with the people of the world.
So I chose a good day to fast, put on court clothes, rode in the emperor's car, held high the green flag, and rang the jade bells. Visit the garden of the Six Arts, gallop on the avenue of benevolence and righteousness; visit the forest of "Spring and Autumn", play "Liao Shou" and the music of "Zou Yu", and hold an archery ceremony; shoot a black crane, raise your shield and axe, and dance to your heart's content. The cart carries a sky-high net to catch many elegant people; it is sad for the lamentation of the author of "Cutting Sandalwood", and happy for "Sanghu" to win the talented people. It grooms the appearance in the "Li" garden, wanders around the "Book" garden to appreciate, explains the principles of "The Book of Changes", and releases all kinds of rare birds and monsters in the forest garden. Climbing up to the Mingtang and sitting in the ancestral temple, the king ordered his ministers to tell all the pros and cons of the government, so that all the people in the world would benefit.
At this time, everyone in the world is very happy.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
若夫终日暴露驰骋，劳神苦形，罢车马之用，抏士卒之精，费府库之财，而无德厚之恩，务在独乐，不顾众庶，忘国家之政，而贪雉兔之获，则仁者不由也。
从此观之，齐楚之事，岂不哀哉！
地方不过千里，而囿居九百，是草木不得垦辟，而民无所食也。
夫以诸侯之细，而乐万乘之所侈，仆恐百姓之被其尤也。
於是二子愀然改容，超若自失，逡巡避席曰： 鄙人固陋，不知忌讳，乃今日见教，谨闻命矣。
赋奏，天子以为郎。
无是公言天子上林广大，山谷水泉万物，乃子虚言楚云梦所有甚众，侈靡过其实，且非义理所尚，故删取其要，归正道而论之。
相如为郎数岁，会唐蒙使略通夜郎西僰中，发巴蜀吏卒千人，郡又多为发转漕万馀人，用兴法诛其渠帅，巴蜀民大惊恐。
上闻之，乃使相如责唐蒙，因喻告巴蜀民以非上意。
檄曰：
告巴蜀太守：蛮夷自擅不讨之日久矣，时侵犯边境，劳士大夫。
陛下即位，存抚天下，辑安中国。
然後兴师出兵，北征匈奴，单于怖骇，交臂受事，诎膝请和。
康居西域，重译请朝，稽首来享。
移师东指，闽越相诛。
右吊番禺，太子入朝。
南夷之君，西僰之长，常效贡职，不敢怠堕，延颈举踵，喁喁然皆争归义，欲为臣妾，道里辽远，山川阻深，不能自致。
夫不顺者已诛，而为善者未赏，故遣中郎将往宾之，发巴蜀士民各五百人，以奉币帛，卫使者不然，靡有兵革之事，战斗之患。
今闻其乃发军兴制，惊惧子弟，忧患长老，郡又擅为转粟运输，皆非陛下之意也。
translation: 
They followed the emperor's teachings, obeyed government orders, followed the trend of the times, and accepted education. The way of sage is vigorously revitalized, the people turn to benevolence and righteousness, and punishments are abandoned and not used. The king's kindness is higher than that of the three emperors, and his achievements surpass those of the five emperors. If political performance reaches this point, safari is a gratifying thing. If you spend all day exposed and galloping in the gardens, mentally exhausted, physically exhausted, abandoning the function of the chariots and horses, damaging the energy of the soldiers, and wasting money from the treasury, but showing no kindness or kindness to the people, only focusing on personal happiness, not caring about the many people, forgetting the affairs of the country, and coveting the hunting of pheasants and rabbits, this is what a benevolent king is not willing to do.
From this point of view, isn’t the hunting behavior of Qi and Chu sad?
Each of the two countries has a land area of ​​only a thousand miles, but the garden covers an area of ​​900 miles. As a result, the grassy fields cannot be turned into cultivated fields, and the people have no food to eat.
They rely on their humble status as princes to enjoy the luxurious pleasures of the emperor. I am afraid that the people will suffer disaster.
So the two gentlemen, Zixu and Wu You, changed their expressions, felt lost, wandered back, left their seats, and said: I am shallow and ignorant, and have no scruples, but I have received a lesson today, and I want to learn from it seriously.
After this fu was written and presented to the emperor, the emperor appointed Xiangru as Lang Guan.
Wu Shi publicly said that Shanglin Garden was vast, with valleys, springs and all things, and Zi Xu said that Yun Mengze had many things. It was extravagant and exaggerated, and it was not what etiquette advocated. Therefore, he deleted the key points, attributed them to the right way, and commented on them.
Xiangru served as Langguan for several years. At that time, Tang Meng was ordered to plunder and open up Yelang and Bozhong to the west. He recruited thousands of officials and soldiers from Ba and Shu counties, and more than 10,000 land and water transportation personnel from Xijun. He also used wartime laws to kill the commander, and the people of Ba and Shu were shocked and frightened.
When the emperor heard about this situation, he sent Xiangru to blame Tang Meng and took the opportunity to tell the people of Ba and Shu that what Tang Meng did was not the emperor's original intention.
The message said:
Announcement to the governors of Ba and Shu: The barbarians have taken military power for themselves, disobeyed the imperial court, and have not been attacking for a long time. They often invade the borders and cause hardships to the scholar-bureaucrats.
Now that the emperor has ascended the throne, he is trying to appease the world and make China peaceful and harmonious.
Then he mobilized his troops and went north to attack the Xiongnu, which shocked the Xiongnu. They surrendered and bowed their knees to seek peace.
Kangju and other countries in the Western Regions also went through translations, communicated with each other, requested to see Emperor Wu, kowtowed reverently, and presented tributes.
Then the army pointed directly to the east, and the king of Minyue was killed by his younger brother.
Then the army arrived at Panyu, and the King of Nanyue sent Prince Yingqi to the court.
The monarchs of Nanyi and the leaders of Xibo often paid tribute and taxes, and did not dare to neglect them. Everyone stretched their necks, raised their heels, admired the court, strived for benevolence and righteousness, and wanted to be the servants of the Han Dynasty. However, the road was far away and mountains and rivers blocked them, so they could not come to pay tribute to the Hanjun in person.
Now, those who disobey have been killed, but those who have done good deeds have not yet been rewarded, so the Zhonglang general is sent to treat them politely and make them submit. As for the levying of 500 soldiers and civilians from Ba and Shu, it was just to offer gifts and protect the envoys from accidents. They did not expect to start a war and cause the disaster of war.
Now, the emperor heard that General Zhonglang actually used wartime laws, which frightened the children of Ba and Shu, and made the fathers and elders of Ba and Shu worried about disaster. The two counties of Ba and Shu also transferred grain to General Zhonglang without authorization. This was not the emperor's original intention.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
当行者或亡逃自贼杀，亦非人臣之节也。
夫边郡之士，闻烽举燧燔，皆摄弓而驰，荷兵而走，流汗相属，唯恐居後，触白刃，冒流矢，义不反顾，计不旋踵，人怀怒心，如报私雠。
彼岂乐死恶生，非编列之民，而与巴蜀异主哉？
计深虑远，急国家之难，而乐尽人臣之道也。
故有剖符之封，析珪而爵，位为通侯，居列东第，终则遗显号於後世，传土地於子孙，行事甚忠敬，居位甚安佚，名声施於无穷，功烈著而不灭。
是以贤人君子，肝脑涂中原，膏液润野草而不辞也。
今奉币役至南夷，即自贼杀，或亡逃抵诛，身死无名，谥为至愚，耻及父母，为天下笑。
人之度量相越，岂不远哉！
然此非独行者之罪也，父兄之教不先，子弟之率不谨也；寡廉鲜耻，而俗不长厚也。
其被刑戮，不亦宜乎！
陛下患使者有司之若彼，悼不肖愚民之如此，故遣信使晓喻百姓以发卒之事，因数之以不忠死亡之罪，让三老孝弟以不教诲之过。
方今田时，重烦百姓，已亲见近县，恐远所谿谷山泽之民不遍闻，檄到，亟下县道，使咸知陛下之意，唯毋忽也。
相如还报。
唐蒙已略通夜郎，因通西南夷道，发巴、蜀、广汉卒，作者数万人。
治道二岁，道不成，士卒多物故，费以巨万计。
蜀民及汉用事者多言其不便。
translation: 
As for those who were conscripted, some ran away and some killed each other. This was not the moral integrity of a minister.
When the soldiers in the border counties and counties heard the news that the beacon fire was held high and the fumes were lit, they all prepared their bows to shoot, galloped forward, and rushed to the battlefield with their weapons on their backs. Everyone was sweating, fearing that they would fall behind; when fighting, even if they were exposed to sharp blades and risked being hit by stray arrows, they had no hesitation and never thought of turning around and running away. Everyone is angry as if seeking personal revenge.
Are they happy to die but hate to live? Are they not good citizens in their household registration, and are they not the same monarch as Ba and Shu?
It's just that they have deep thoughts, long-term considerations, and are focused on the danger of the country, and like to do their best to fulfill the obligations of their subjects.
Therefore, some of them were rewarded by the talisman-cutting officials, and some of them were given titles, ranked in the ranks of marquises, and their residences were arranged in the east. After their death, they can pass down the dignitary's posthumous title to future generations, and pass on the rewarded land to their descendants. They are very loyal and serious in their work, and they are particularly comfortable as officials. Their good reputation will be spread to future generations, and their outstanding achievements will never be wiped out.
Therefore, virtuous people can smear their liver and brains, and moisten the weeds with their blood without hesitation.
Now they just go to Nanyi as a servant to offer coins and silk, and they kill each other, or they run away and are killed. They die without a good reputation. Their posthumous title should be called Zhiyu. Their shame involves their parents and they are laughed at by everyone in the world.
Isn’t there a huge gap between a person’s magnanimity and his talent?
But this is not just the fault of the conscript. His father and brothers have never given him a very strict education, nor have they carefully set an example for their children. If people lack the virtue of honesty and lack of shame, then the world will not be honest.
Therefore, it was natural that they were sentenced to kill.
The emperor was worried that the envoys and officials would be like that, and he was sad that the unworthy and ignorant people were like this, so he sent messengers to tell the people clearly about the recruitment of soldiers, and took the opportunity to blame them for not being loyal to the court and not dying for state affairs, and reprimanding the three elders and filial brothers for not fulfilling their teaching duties well.
Now is the busy farming season. I have repeatedly troubled the people and have seen the situation in nearby counties with my own eyes. I am worried that the people in the remote valleys and mountains cannot all hear the emperor's voice. When this message arrives, I will quickly distribute it to the people in the county so that they all know the emperor's thoughts. Don't forget it!
After Xiangru's mission was completed, he returned to Beijing and reported to Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
Tang Meng had captured and opened Yelang, and took the opportunity to open a road to the southwestern Yi. He recruited soldiers from Ba, Shu, and Guanghan, and tens of thousands of people participated in road construction.
It took two years to build the road, but it was not completed. Many soldiers died and the money spent was calculated in hundreds of millions.
There were many opponents among the people of Shu and those in power in the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
是时邛筰之君长闻南夷与汉通，得赏赐多，多欲原为内臣妾，请吏，比南夷。
天子问相如，相如曰： 邛、筰、厓、駹者近蜀，道亦易通，秦时尝通为郡县，至汉兴而罢。
今诚复通，为置郡县，愈於南夷。
天子以为然，乃拜相如为中郎将，建节往使。
副使王然于、壶充国、吕越人驰四乘之传，因巴蜀吏币物以赂西夷。
至蜀，蜀太守以下郊迎，县令负弩矢先驱，蜀人以为宠。
於是卓王孙、临邛诸公皆因门下献牛酒以交驩。
卓王孙喟然而叹，自以得使女尚司马长卿晚，而厚分与其女财，与男等同。
司马长卿便略定西夷，邛、筰、厓、駹、斯榆之君皆请为内臣。
除边关，关益斥，西至沬、若水，南至牂柯为徼，通零关道，桥孙水以通邛都。
还报天子，天子大说。
相如使时，蜀长老多言通西南夷不为用，唯大臣亦以为然。
相如欲谏，业已建之，不敢，乃著书，籍以蜀父老为辞，而己诘难之，以风天子，且因宣其使指，令百姓知天子之意。
其辞曰：
汉兴七十有八载，德茂存乎六世，威武纷纭，湛恩汪濊，群生澍濡，洋溢乎方外。
於是乃命使西征，随流而攘，风之所被，罔不披靡。
因朝厓从駹，定筰存邛，略斯榆，举苞满，结轶还辕，东乡将报，至于蜀都。
耆老大夫荐绅先生之徒二十有七人，俨然造焉。
辞毕，因进曰： 盖闻天子之於夷狄也，其义羁縻勿绝而已。
今罢三郡之士，通夜郎之涂，三年於兹，而功不竟，士卒劳倦，万民不赡，今又接以西夷，百姓力屈，恐不能卒业，此亦使者之累也，窃为左右患之。
且夫邛、筰、西僰之与中国并也，历年兹多，不可记已。
translation: 
At this time, the princes of Qiong and Zeo heard that Nanyi had interacted with the Han Dynasty and received many rewards. Therefore, most of them wanted to be the servants of the Han Dynasty. They hoped to compare the treatment of Nanyi with the Han Dynasty and asked the Han Dynasty to appoint them to official positions.
The emperor asked Xiangru about this, and Xiangru said: Qiong Ze, Ran, Zhen, etc. are all very close to Shu, and the roads are easy to open. Prefectures and counties were already established during the Qin Dynasty and were abolished only after the founding of the Han Dynasty.
Now that it is really going to be reopened and set up as counties, its value exceeds that of Nanyi.
The emperor thought that Xiangru was right, so he appointed Xiangru as Zhonglang General and ordered Chijie to go on an envoy.
Deputy envoys Wang Ranyu, Hu Chongguo, Lu Yueren and others rode forward in a carriage driven by four horses, relying on officials and property from Ba and Shu to win over the southwestern barbarians.
When Xiangru and others arrived at Shu County, the prefect of Shu County and his officials went to the outskirts to greet Xiangru. The county magistrate, carrying a bow and arrow, opened the way in front of him. The people of Shu were all proud of this.
So Zhuo Wangsun and Linqiong elders all came to Xiangru's door through their connections, offered cattle and wine, and talked happily with Xiangru.
Zhuo Wangsun sighed and thought that it was too late to marry his daughter to Sima Xiangru, so he gave Wen Jun a generous piece of property to share equally with his son.
Sima Xiangru then pacified the southwestern barbarians. The princes of Qiong, Zuo, Ran, Zhen, and Siyu all requested to become ministers of the Han Dynasty.
So the old passes were demolished, and the border was expanded to reach Moshui and Ruoshui in the west, and Zangke in the south. Using this as the boundary, the Lingguan Road was opened, and a bridge was built on Sunshui River, leading directly to Qiong and Zeo.
Xiangru returned to Beijing to report to the emperor, who was very happy.
When Xiangru was sent as an envoy to the southwestern barbarians, most of the elders in Shu County said it was useless to open the door to the southwestern barbarians. Even the court ministers thought this was the case.
Xiangru also wanted to remonstrate with the emperor, but the suggestion had already been made by himself, so he did not dare to remonstrate further, so he wrote an article, pretending to be an elder in Shu County, and used it to challenge the other party.
The article said:
It has been seventy and eight years since the founding of the Han Dynasty. The virtues are abundant and exist in the political affairs of the six generations of kings. The country is powerful and grand. The imperial favor passed down through time is far-reaching and vast. Not only the people at home have benefited, but also foreign countries have received residual favors.
Therefore, the emperor ordered the envoys to march westward. Those who obstructed the army retreated in accordance with the situation. Wherever the wind of morality and education went, they all fell with the wind.
As a result, Ran Yi surrendered, Zou Yi obeyed, Zhe was pacified, Qiong was saved, Siyu was captured, and Baoman was captured. Then he turned the endless stream of chariots and horses around and set off eastward, returning to Beijing to report to the emperor and arriving in Chengdu, Shu County.
At this time, a total of twenty-seven elders, doctors, recommended gentry, and gentlemen came to visit seriously.
After the greetings were over, he took the opportunity to speak: I heard that the emperor's attitude towards the Yi and Di people was just to contain them and prevent them from severing relations.
But now the soldiers of the three counties are exhausted to open the road to Yelang. It has been three years since the road construction was finally completed. The soldiers are already tired from hard work, and the people are no longer rich. Now we have to continue to open the Western Yi, and the people's labor has been exhausted. I am afraid that this matter will not be completed in the end. This is also the burden of the envoy. I am privately worried about you.
Moreover, it has been many years since Qiong, Zuo, and Xibo were aligned with China, and I can no longer remember them clearly.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
仁者不以德来，彊者不以力并，意者其殆不可乎！
今割齐民以附夷狄，弊所恃以事无用，鄙人固陋，不识所谓。
使者曰： 乌谓此邪？
必若所云，则是蜀不变服而巴不化俗也。
余尚恶闻若说。
然斯事体大，固非观者之所觏也。
余之行急，其详不可得闻已，请为大夫粗陈其略。
盖世必有非常之人，然後有非常之事；有非常之事，然後有非常之功。
非常者，固常之所异也。
故曰非常之原，黎民惧焉；及臻厥成，天下晏如也。
昔者鸿水浡出，氾滥衍溢，民人登降移徙，陭麕而不安。
夏后氏戚之，乃堙鸿水，决江疏河，漉沈赡菑，东归之於海，而天下永宁。
当斯之勤，岂唯民哉。
心烦於虑而身亲其劳，躬胝无胈，肤不生毛。
故休烈显乎无穷，声称浃乎于兹。
且夫贤君之践位也。岂特委琐握麀，拘文牵俗，循诵习传，当世取说云尔哉！
必将崇论闳议，创业垂统，为万世规。
故驰骛乎兼容并包，而勤思乎参天贰地。
且诗不云乎： 普天之下，莫非王土；率土之滨，莫非王臣。
是以六合之内，八方之外，浸浔衍溢，怀生之物有不浸润於泽者，贤君耻之。
今封疆之内，冠带之伦，咸获嘉祉，靡有阙遗矣。
而夷狄殊俗之国，辽绝异党之地，舟舆不通，人迹罕至，政教未加，流风犹微。
内之则犯义侵礼於边境，外之则邪行横作，放弑其上。君臣易位，尊卑失序，父兄不辜，幼孤为奴，系累号泣，内乡而怨，曰 盖闻中国有至仁焉，德洋而恩普，物靡不得其所，今独曷为遗己 。
举踵思慕，若枯旱之望雨。
translation: 
A benevolent king cannot be recruited with all his benevolence, and a powerful monarch cannot be annexed with all force. Come to think of it, this approach may not work!
Now the property of the good people is cut off to increase the property of the barbarians, which makes the people on whom the Han Dynasty relies suffer fatigue, and they serve the useless barbarians. The despicable people are short-sighted and do not know whether what they say is correct.
The messenger said: How can you say such a thing?
It must be as you said, then the clothing habits of Shujun people will never change, and the customs of Bajun people will never change.
I often hate hearing this.
But the significance of this matter was not originally apparent to onlookers.
My trip is so urgent that I cannot tell you the details. Please give it to the doctors briefly.
Probably there must be extraordinary people in society before extraordinary things happen; only when extraordinary things happen can extraordinary achievements be created.
Extraordinary, of course, it is strange to ordinary people.
Therefore, when extraordinary things begin to occur, people will be frightened; when things succeed, everyone in the world will be safe and peaceful.
In the past, floods surged out and overflowed in all directions, and people moved up and down, which was rugged and restless.
Dayu was worried about this, so he blocked the flood, dug the bottom of the river, dredged the river channel, dispersed the flood, stabilized the disaster, and caused the flood to flow eastward to the sea, so that the people of the world would always be safe.
Are it only the common people who bear such toil?
Dayu was worried and worried all day long, but he also had to work personally. He was so tired that his hands and feet had calluses, his body was so thin that there was no flesh, and his skin was so worn that no hair could grow on it.
Therefore, his wonderful achievements will be prominent in endless future generations, and his reputation has been spread to this day.
Moreover, after a wise monarch ascends the throne, can he only be petty and dirty, bound by grammar, restrained by the world, follow old habits, and please the world?
They should have lofty and magnificent ideas, create achievements, and pass on legal traditions, so as to become an example for future generations to follow.
Therefore, we must work hard to be tolerant and inclusive, and we must diligently think about turning ourselves into a person who can compare with heaven and earth.
Moreover, it is said in the Book of Songs: There is no place in the world that is not the territory of the King of Zhou; there is no one in the four seas who is not the subject of the King of Zhou.
Therefore, within the heaven and the earth, and outside the eight directions, everything is gradually infiltrating and spreading. If there is any living thing that is not nourished by your kindness, the virtuous king will consider it a shame.
Now within the borders, civil and military officials have all gained joy and happiness, without any gaps.
The Yi and Di are countries with different customs, far away from us, and a region with different ethnic groups. It is inaccessible by cars and boats and inaccessible, so political education has not yet reached there, and the social atmosphere is still very low.
If you accept them, they will do things that violate etiquette at the border; if you exclude them, they will do evil in their own country, drive out their kings, reverse the relationship between kings and ministers, and change the order of honor and inferiority. Fathers and brothers will be killed without guilt, young children and orphans will be treated as slaves. The bound people cry, yearning for the Han Dynasty, and complain: I heard that China has the most benevolent monarch, with great virtues, universal benevolence, and everything is in its place. Why have we just been abandoned now?
Lift your heels and long for it, just like people look forward to rain during a severe drought.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
盭夫为之垂涕，况乎上圣，又恶能已？
故北出师以讨彊胡，南驰使以诮劲越。
四面风德，二方之君鳞集仰流，原得受号者以亿计。
故乃关沬、若，徼牂柯，镂零山，梁孙原。
创道德之涂，垂仁义之统。
将博恩广施，远抚长驾，使疏逖不闭，阻深闇昧得耀乎光明，以偃甲兵於此，而息诛伐於彼。
遐迩一体，中外提福，不亦康乎？
夫拯民於沈溺，奉至尊之休德，反衰世之陵迟，继周氏之绝业，斯乃天子之急务也。
百姓虽劳，又恶可以已哉？
且夫王事固未有不始於忧勤，而终於佚乐者也。
然则受命之符，合在於此矣。
方将增泰山之封，加梁父之事，鸣和鸾，扬乐颂，上咸五，下登三。
观者未睹指，听者未闻音，犹鹪明已翔乎寥廓，而罗者犹视乎薮泽。悲夫！
於是诸大夫芒然丧其所怀来而失厥所以进，喟然并称曰： 允哉汉德，此鄙人之所原闻也。
百姓虽怠，请以身先之。
敞罔靡徙，因迁延而辞避。
其後人有上书言相如使时受金，失官。
居岁馀，复召为郎。
相如口吃而善著书。
常有消渴疾。
与卓氏婚，饶於财。
其进仕宦，未尝肯与公卿国家之事，称病间居，不慕官爵。
常从上至长杨猎，是时天子方好自击熊彘，驰逐野兽，相如上疏谏之。其辞曰：臣闻物有同类而殊能者，故力称乌获，捷言庆忌，勇期贲、育。
臣之愚，窃以为人诚有之，兽亦宜然。
translation: 
Even a violent person would be moved to tears by it, not to mention that the current emperor is a wise man, how could he let it go?
So he sent troops to the north to attack the powerful Xiongnu, and sent envoys to the south to reproach the powerful Yue Kingdom.
The neighboring countries on all sides were taught by benevolence, and the princes of the southern and western barbarians gathered together like fish, with their heads facing the water, willing to receive hundreds of millions of titles from the Han Dynasty.
Therefore, Moshui and Ruoshui were used as barriers, Zangke was used as the boundary, a road to Lingshan was dug, and a bridge was built at the source of Sunshui.
He created a smooth road to morality and passed down the tradition of loving benevolence and righteousness.
We will extend our kindness widely, appease and control the people in remote areas, prevent those who are alienated from being isolated, bring light to the people living in remote and uncivilized areas, eliminate wars here, and eliminate killings there.
Isn't it a matter of happiness to unite the near and far, to achieve peace and happiness inside and outside?
It is the emperor's top priority to save the people from dire straits, respect the emperor's virtues, save the declining society, and inherit the discontinued achievements of the Zhou Dynasty.
Even if the people are working hard, how can they stop?
Moreover, the affairs of an emperor always begin with sorrow and end with pleasure.
In this way, the auspiciousness of receiving the destiny lies in the matter of Tongxi Yi.
Now the emperor is going to enshrine Mount Tai and offer sacrifices to Mount Liangfu, so that the luan bells on the carriages will ring and the sound of music and chants will rise. The virtue of the emperor of Han will be the same as that of the five emperors and that of the three kings.
The onlookers did not see the gist of the matter, just like the wrens flying in the empty sky, while the bird catchers still stared at Yauze. How sad!
So the officials were at a loss, forgetting their purpose of coming and what they had originally wanted to say, and said together with deep emotion: What a convincing virtue the Han Dynasty has! This is what despicable people want to hear.
Although the people are a little lazy, please allow us to set an example for them.
The doctors were melancholy, retreated voluntarily, delayed for a while, and said goodbye.
From then on, someone wrote a letter to accuse Xiangru of accepting bribes from others when he was on an envoy, and as a result, he lost his official position.
He stayed at home for more than a year, and was called to the court as a Langguan.
Xiangru stutters, but is good at writing articles.
He often suffers from diabetes.
After he married Zhuo Wenjun, he became very rich.
When he held an official position, he was not willing to discuss national affairs with the ministers. Instead, he took advantage of his illness to stay at home and did not pursue the official title.
He once followed the emperor to Changyang Palace for hunting. At this time, the emperor liked to personally kill bears and pigs, and chase wild beasts on horseback. Xiangru wrote a booklet to advise him. The booklet wrote: The ministers heard that although all living things are of the same kind, they have different abilities.
I am ignorant and secretly think that if humans have this kind of situation, animals should also have this kind of situation.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
今陛下好陵阻险，射猛兽，卒然遇轶材之兽，骇不存之地，犯属车之清尘，舆不及还辕，人不暇施巧，虽有乌获、逢蒙之伎，力不得用，枯木朽株尽为害矣。
是胡越起於毂下，而羌夷接轸也，岂不殆哉！
虽万全无患，然本非天子之所宜近也。
且夫清道而後行，中路而後驰，犹时有衔橛之变，而况涉乎蓬蒿，驰乎丘坟，前有利兽之乐而内无存变之意，其为祸也不亦难矣！
夫轻万乘之重不以为安，而乐出於万有一危之涂以为娱，臣窃为陛下不取也。
盖明者远见於未萌而智者避危於无形，祸固多藏於隐微而发於人之所忽者也。故鄙谚曰 家累千金，坐不垂堂 。
此言虽小，可以喻大。
臣原陛下之留意幸察。
上善之。
还过宜春宫，相如奏赋以哀二世行失也。
其辞曰：
登陂阤之长阪兮，坌入曾宫之嵯峨。
临曲江之隑州兮，望南山之参差。
岩岩深山之谾々兮，通谷魌兮谽。
汩淢噏习以永逝兮，注平皋之广衍。
观众树之塕兮，览之榛榛。
东驰土山兮，北揭石濑。
弥节容与兮，历吊二世。
持身不谨兮，亡国失埶。
信谗不寤兮，宗庙灭绝。
呜呼哀哉！
操行之不得兮，坟墓芜秽而不脩兮，魂无归而不食。夐邈绝而不齐兮，弥久远而愈鬐。
精罔阆而飞扬兮，拾九天而永逝。
呜呼哀哉！
相如拜为孝文园令。
天子既美子虚之事，相如见上好仙道，因曰： 上林之事未足美也，尚有靡者。
臣尝为大人赋，未就，请具而奏之。
其辞曰：世有大人兮，在于中州。宅弥万里兮，曾不足以少留。
悲世俗之迫隘兮，朅轻举而远游。
translation: 
Now Your Majesty likes to climb dangerous places and shoot wild beasts. Suddenly, you encounter a nimble and superb beast. When you are unprepared, it attacks violently and rushes towards your chariot and entourage. The chariot has no time to rotate the shaft, and people have no chance to display their skills. Even if you have the skills of Wu Huo and Feng Meng, your talents cannot be used, and withered trees and rotten tree stumps can all turn into disasters.
This is like Hu people and Yue people appearing under the wheel, and Qiang and Yi people following closely behind the wheel. Isn't it very dangerous?
Although it is absolutely safe and harmless, this is not a place that the emperor should approach.
What's more, if you clear the road and then walk, choose the middle of the road to drive your horse to gallop, accidents may sometimes occur, such as the bit in the horse's mouth breaking and the hook of the axle falling off. What's more, it is very easy to trek through the basil and run on the ruins of barren hills. There is the joy of hunting wild beasts in front of you, but you are not prepared to deal with sudden accidents in your heart. It is probably very easy for disaster to occur.
As for belittling the king's noble status, not taking it as a comfort, but willing to appear in a place that is still slightly dangerous despite being fully prepared, I personally think that your majesty should not do this.
Perhaps those who are discerning can see the occurrence of something long before it happens, and those who are wise can avoid it before the disaster occurs. Most disasters are hidden in secret places and occur when people are careless. Therefore, the proverb says: If you accumulate thousands of gold at home, you will not sit under the eaves of the hall.
Although this sentence talks about small things, it can be used to illustrate big things.
I hope your Majesty will pay attention.
The emperor thought that what Sima Xiangru said was very good.
When he passed by Yichun Palace on his return, Xiangru presented a gift to the emperor and expressed his condolences for Qin II's fault.
The words of Fu are:
Climb the long and uneven hillside and walk into the tall palaces.
Looking down at the curved shores and small islands of Qujiang Pond, and looking at the uneven Nanshan Mountains.
The rocks are towering and the space is deep, and the smooth valley is suddenly open and spacious.
The stream flows rapidly away into the wide, low waterside highlands.
Admire the shady beauty of various trees and browse the dense bamboo forest.
Running towards the east mountain, I picked up my clothes and walked through the rapids on the sand and rocks.
Wandering slowly, I passed by II's grave and paid my respects to him.
He himself acted imprudently, which led to the destruction of the country and the loss of his power.
He listened to the slander and refused to wake up, causing the ancestral temple to be exterminated.
Alas!
His moral character was not upright, his tomb was deserted and no one had repaired it, his soul had nowhere to go, and no one offered sacrifices to him; he drifted to an extremely far and boundless place, far beyond the darkness.
The spirit like a monster ascends into the sky and flies far away through the vast nine days.
Alas!
Xiangru was appointed as the mausoleum order of Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty.
Emperor Wu not only praised Zixu's deeds, but Xiangru also saw that the emperor loved the immortal way, so he took the opportunity to say: "The deeds in Shanglin are not the most beautiful, there are more beautiful things."
I once wrote "Ode to Your Excellency", but it is not finished. Please allow me to present it to the Emperor after I finish it.
Xiangru believed that the immortals in the legend lived in the mountains, forests and swamps, and were particularly thin in appearance. They were not the immortals the emperor had in mind, so he wrote the "Adult Fu", which wrote: There is an adult in the world who lives in China. The houses are spread thousands of miles away, but they are not enough to make him stop for a while.
Sad about the coercion and hardship of the world, he passed away and wandered into the distance.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
垂绛幡之素蜺兮，载云气而上浮。
建格泽之长竿兮，总光耀之采旄。
垂旬始以为幓兮，抴彗星而为髾。
掉指桥以偃蹇兮，又旖旎以招摇。
揽欃枪以为旌兮，靡屈虹而为绸。
红杳渺以眩湣兮，猋风涌而云浮。
驾应龙象舆之蠖略逶丽兮，骖赤螭青虬之鞮蟉蜿蜒。
低卬夭蟜据以骄骜兮，诎折隆穷蠼以连卷沛艾赳螑仡以佁儗兮，放散畔岸骧以孱颜。
跮踱輵辖容以委丽兮，绸缪偃蹇怵鞨以梁倚。
纠蓼叫奡蹋以艐路兮，蔑蒙踊跃腾而狂趡。
莅飒卉翕熛至电过兮，焕然雾除，霍然云消。
邪绝少阳而登太阴兮，与真人乎相求。
互折窈窕以右转兮，横厉飞泉以正东。
悉徵灵圉而选之兮，部乘众神於瑶光。使五帝先导兮，反太一而从陵阳。
左玄冥而右含雷兮，前陆离而後潏湟。
厮征伯侨而役羡门兮，属岐伯使尚方。
祝融惊而跸御兮，清雰气而後行。
屯余车其万乘兮，綷云盖而树华旗。
使句芒其将行兮，吾欲往乎南嬉。
历唐尧於崇山兮，过虞舜於九疑。
纷湛湛其差错兮，杂遝胶葛以方驰。
骚扰冲苁其相纷挐兮，滂濞泱轧洒以林离。钻罗列聚丛以茏茸兮，衍曼流烂坛以陆离。
径入雷室之砰磷郁律兮，洞出鬼谷之嚬礨嵬靺。
遍览八纮而观四荒兮，朅渡九江而越五河。
经营炎火而浮弱水兮，杭绝浮渚而涉流沙。
奄息总极氾滥水嬉兮，使灵娲鼓瑟而舞冯夷。
时若々将混浊兮，召屏翳诛风伯而刑雨师。
西望昆仑之轧沕洸忽兮，直径驰乎三危。
排阊阖而入帝宫兮，载玉女而与之归。
舒阆风而摇集兮，亢乌腾而一止。
低回阴山翔以纡曲兮，吾乃今目睹西王母鱇然白首。
载胜而穴处兮，亦幸有三足乌为之使。
translation: 
Riding on the secondary rainbow decorated with red flags, it floats up carrying the clouds.
Long poles of clouds that look like fireworks are erected, and colorful flags are tied together.
The star of ten days hangs as the streamer of the banner, and the comet hangs as the banner feather.
The flags are invincible in the wind, meandering gracefully and swaying gracefully.
He took a spear and made a flag, and the flagpole was wrapped with a curved rainbow as silk.
The sky was deep red and dark, with surging clouds and floating clouds.
Driving the Yinglong and Xiang chariots, they move forward in a controlled manner, with the red chi and green Qiu as the galloping horses.
Sometimes the dragon's body flexes and rises, soars with its head held high, and gallops at will; sometimes it twists and bulges, coils and curls. Sometimes he shakes his head and stretches his neck, ups and downs and moves forward, sometimes he holds his head high; sometimes he lets himself relax and is self-indulgent, sometimes his head is held high.
Sometimes he advances and retreats suddenly, waving his eyes and sticking out his tongue, like a bird flying away, following each other from left to right; sometimes the dragon's head shakes and bends gracefully, like a frightened rabbit running, like the beams of a house relying on each other.
Or step onto the road amid the hustle and bustle, or fly and jump, galloping forward.
Or flying quickly, chasing each other, as fast as lightning, suddenly bright, the fog disappears, and the clouds disperse.
Cross the East Pole diagonally and climb to the North Pole to interact with the immortals.
After passing through the intricate and winding place, turn right and cross the Feiquan towards the due east.
Summon all the immortals to select them, and arrange them on Yaoguang. Let the Five Emperors be your guides, let Taiyi return, and let Lingyang Ziming be your attendant.
On the left is Xuan Ming, on the right is Han Lei, with Lu Li in front and Yan Huang behind.
Let Prince Qiao be a servant, make Xian Meng Gao a servant, and let Qi Bo be in charge of prescriptions.
Zhurong, the god of fire, serves as a guard, clears the way to defend, eliminates bad spirits, and then moves forward.
There are tens of thousands of cars gathered around me, and their car covers are made of mixed colorful clouds, setting up gorgeous flags.
Let Jumang lead the entourage, I am going to the south to play games.
After passing through Chongshan, I met Tang Yao and visited Yu Shun in Jiuyi.
Chariots and horses criss-crossed each other, and they were galloping forward in a chaotic manner.
Harassment, collision and chaos, the water is boundless and flowing. The mountains are clustered together, and all things are dense and lush, scattered everywhere, and the prosperity is uneven.
Go straight into the rumbling thunder chamber and pass through the rugged ghost valley.
Look across the eight rivers and see the four wildernesses in the distance, cross the Jiujiang River and cross the Five Rivers.
Traveling to and from the Mountain of Fire, floating across the weak water river, the ark crossed Fuzhu, and forded the Liusha River.
Suddenly resting in Congling Mountain, playing in the flooded river, the maidservant Nuwa played the harp and asked Feng Yi to dance.
The sky was dark and unclear, so he summoned Pingyi, the thunder master, to punish the wind god and punish the rain master.
Looking to the west towards Kunlun, I was in a trance, running straight towards Sanwei Mountain.
Push open the heavenly gate and break into the imperial palace, carrying the jade girl back with her.
Climbing Langfeng Mountain and happily stopping to rest is like a black bird flying high and taking a rest.
Wandering on Yinshan Mountain, flying gracefully, until today I saw the Queen Mother of the West with her hair full of white hair.
She wears a jade on her head and lives in a cave. Fortunately, she has a three-legged bird for her to drive.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
必长生若此而不死兮，虽济万世不足以喜。
回车朅来兮，绝道不周，会食幽都。
呼吸沆瀣餐朝霞，噍咀芝英兮叽琼华。
嬐侵浔而高纵兮，纷鸿涌而上厉。
贯列缺之倒景兮，涉丰隆之滂沛。
驰游道而脩降兮，骛遗雾而远逝。
迫区中之隘陕兮，舒节出乎北垠。
遗屯骑於玄阙兮，轶先驱於寒门。
下峥嵘而无地兮，上寥廓而无天。
视眩眠而无见兮，听惝恍而无闻。
乘虚无而上假兮，超无友而独存。
相如既奏大人之颂，天子大说，飘飘有凌云之气，似游天地之间意。
相如既病免，家居茂陵。
天子曰： 司马相如病甚，可往从悉取其书；若不然，後失之矣。
使所忠往，而相如已死，家无书。
问其妻，对曰： 长卿固未尝有书也。
时时著书，人又取去，即空居。
长卿未死时，为一卷书，曰有使者来求书，奏之。
无他书。
其遗札书言封禅事，奏所忠。
忠奏其书，天子异之。
其书曰：伊上古之初肇，自昊穹兮生民，历撰列辟，以迄于秦。
率迩者踵武，逖听者风声。纷纶葳蕤，堙灭而不称者，不可胜数也。
续昭夏，崇号谥，略可道者七十有二君。
罔若淑而不昌，畴逆失而能存？
轩辕之前，遐哉邈乎，其详不可得闻也。
五三六经载籍之传，维见可观也。书曰 元首明哉，股肱良哉 。
因斯以谈，君莫盛於唐尧，臣莫贤於后稷。
后稷创业於唐，公刘发迹於西戎，文王改制，爰周郅隆，大行越成，而後陵夷衰微，千载无声，岂不善始善终哉。
translation: 
You must be immortal like this. Even if you can live for eternity, it is not worth being happy.
I turned around and came back. When I reached the end of Buzhou Road, I had dinner in Youdu.
My breath is heavy and I eat the morning glow, chew the Ganoderma lucidum flowers, and eat a little of the Yushu flowers.
Looking up, the body gradually becomes taller and taller, leaping and flying into the sky.
Walking through the reflection of lightning, wading through the torrential rain created by Fenglong Xingyun.
The galloping tour bus and the guide car descended from the sky, leaving the clouds and mist behind and galloping away.
Forced by the narrowness of human society, I slowly walked out of the edge of the Arctic.
Leave the garrison behind in the Arctic Mountains, and surpass the pioneers at the Tianbei Gate.
The lower realm is so deep that you cannot see the earth, and the upper realm is so vast that you cannot see the horizon.
My vision is blurry and my hearing is blurred.
Soar up into the sky and reach the distance, transcend nothingness and exist alone forever.
Now that Xiangru had presented the "Ode to Your Excellency", the emperor was particularly happy. He felt as if he could reach the sky, and his mood was as refreshing as traveling between heaven and earth.
Xiangru has been dismissed from office due to illness and lives in Maoling.
The emperor said: Sima Xiangru is very ill. You can send someone to retrieve all his books; if you don't do this, they will be lost in the future.
He sent Suozhong to Maoling, but Xiangru was dead and there were no books at home.
When I asked Xiangru's wife, she replied: Changqing never had a book.
He often writes books and others take them away, so his home is always empty.
When Chang Qing was still alive, he wrote a book. He said that if an envoy came to pick up the book, he would present it.
There are no other books.
The book he left behind was about Feng Chan, and he dedicated it to his loyal followers.
Suo Zhong presented the book to the emperor again, and the emperor was surprised by the book.
The book says: At the beginning of ancient times, all peoples were born from heaven, and experienced kings of all generations, all the way to Qin.
Follow the footsteps of modern kings and listen to the legacy and reputation of ancient kings. They are numerous and confusing. There are countless people whose reputations and deeds have been destroyed but not praised.
There are only seventy-two monarchs who can succeed Shun and Yu, advocate honorable titles and posthumous titles, and can be granted the title of Zen in Qinshan and be slightly praised.
If one acts in accordance with good principles, no one will not prosper; if one goes against common sense and acts unethically, who can survive?
Before Xuanyuan, time was long, things were unclear, and the details were unknown.
Some of the deeds of the Five Emperors and Three Kings are recorded in the Six Classics books and legends, and we can see the general situation. "Shangshu" says: The king is wise and the ministers are outstanding.
According to this record, it can be said that the sage of the king did not exceed that of Tang Yao, and the virtuousness of the ministers did not compare with Hou Ji.
Houji made great achievements during the reign of Yao of Tang Dynasty, Gongliu became prosperous in the land of Xirong, King Wen reformed the system, made Zhou prosperous, and the way of peace was formed. Although the political achievements of subsequent descendants declined, there has been no voice of resentment for thousands of years. Isn't this a good beginning and a good end?


Chunk 16: 
original: 
然无异端，慎所由於前，谨遗教於後耳。
故轨迹夷易，易遵也；湛恩濛涌，易丰也；宪度著明，易则也；垂统理顺，易继也。
是以业隆於繦褓而崇冠于二后。
揆厥所元，终都攸卒，未有殊尤绝迹可考于今者也。
然犹蹑梁父，登泰山，建显号，施尊名。
大汉之德，逢涌原泉，沕潏漫衍，旁魄四塞，云尃雾散，上暢九垓，下溯八埏。
怀生之类霑濡浸润，协气横流，武节飘逝，迩陕游原，迥阔泳沫，首恶湮没，闇昧昭晢，昆蟲凯泽，回首面内。
然後囿驺虞之珍群，徼麋鹿之怪兽，鳒一茎六穗於庖，牺双共抵之兽，获周馀珍收龟于岐，招翠黄乘龙於沼。鬼神接灵圉，宾於间馆。奇物谲诡，俶傥穷变。钦哉，符瑞臻兹，犹以为薄，不敢道封禅。
盖周跃鱼陨杭，休之以燎，微夫斯之为符也，以登介丘，不亦恧乎！
进让之道，其何爽与？
於是大司马进曰： 陛下仁育群生，义征不憓，诸夏乐贡，百蛮执贽，德侔往初，功无与二，休烈浃洽，符瑞众变，期应绍至，不特创见。
意者泰山、梁父设坛场望幸，盖号以况荣，上帝垂恩储祉，将以荐成，陛下谦让而弗发也。挈三神之驩，缺王道之仪，群臣恧焉。
或谓且天为质闇，珍符固不可辞；若然辞之，是泰山靡记而梁父靡几也。
translation: 
But there is no other reason why the Zhou Dynasty could be like this. It is just that the previous kings were able to carefully engage in the things they considered and planned, and they were able to rigorously teach future generations.
Therefore, the road opened by the predecessors is smooth and easy to follow; the deep kindness is broad and easy to be abundant; the law is clear and easy to follow; the inheritance of the law is reasonable and easy to inherit.
Therefore, Duke Zhou's achievements flourished during the reign of King Cheng, and his merits surpassed those of King Wen and King Wu.
Judging from its beginning and its end, there are no particularly outstanding achievements that can be compared with the current Han Dynasty.
However, Zhou people still went up to Liangfu Mountain and Mount Tai, established noble titles and gained a respected reputation.
The benevolence of the great Han Dynasty surged out like a fountain, spreading grandly and spreading in all directions. It spreads like clouds and mist, reaching up to the nine heavens and down to extremely distant places in all directions.
All living beings receive kindness, the harmonious spirit spreads widely, and the mighty spirit drifts away. Those who are near are like swimming in the source of grace, and those who are far away are like swimming in the last stream of grace.
The leaders of evil will be obliterated, and those in darkness will gain light. Even all kinds of animals were happy and turned around to face the Chinese court. Then, precious beasts such as Zouyu gathered in the garden, monsters such as Bailin entered the fence, selected a six-tasseled Jiahe in the kitchen for sacrifice, sacrificed a white lin with a branched horn, obtained the treasure tripod left by the Zhou Dynasty and the raised sacred turtles in Qishan, and summoned the divine horse from the swamp to ride the yellow. Ghosts and gods greet the gods and spirits and treat them as guests in the pavilion. Rare things, strange and extraordinary, infinitely varied. It's so admirable that all the auspicious signs are appearing here, but he still thinks that his merits are meager and he dare not praise the matter of being enshrined in Zen.
Once upon a time, when King Wu of Zhou Dynasty was crossing a river, a white fish jumped into the boat. King Wu thought it was a good sign of auspiciousness, so he burned the white fish as a sacrifice to heaven. In fact, this kind of talisman is very small, but because of it, I climbed Mount Tai. Isn’t it too shameful?
The Zhou Dynasty should not have enshrined Zen, but the Han Dynasty should have enshrined Zen, but did not. How far apart are the principles of advancement and concession?
So Grand Sima Jin admonished: Your Majesty nurtures the people of the world with benevolence, and conquers those who refuse to obey with morality. The princes of China are willing to pay tribute, and the barbarians all hold gifts to worship the emperor. The virtues are equal to those of the previous sage kings, and the achievements are the same. The good merits and achievements are generally harmonious. The signs of Fu Rui change in many ways. The periods of fulfillment will come one after another, not just for the first time.
I think the purpose of setting up altars in Mount Tai and Mount Liangfu is to hope that the emperor will come and confer honorary titles to compare with the glory of the previous saints. God's grace and blessings are intended to recommend to heaven with success. Your Majesty's humility and not conferring Zen are cutting off the favor of God, Mount Tai, and Mount Liangfu, making the royal etiquette incomplete, and the officials feel ashamed.
Some people say that the way of heaven is simple and obscure, so rare signs cannot be rejected. If you push it away like this, there will be no opportunity for Taishan to make a mark, and there will be no hope for sacrifices at Liangfu Mountain.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
亦各并时而荣，咸济世而屈，说者尚何称於後，而云七十二君乎？
夫修德以锡符，奉符以行事，不为进越。
故圣王弗替，而修礼地祇，谒款天神，勒功中岳，以彰至尊，舒盛德，发号荣，受厚福，以浸黎民也。
皇皇哉斯事！天下之壮观，王者之丕业，不可贬也。
原陛下全之。
而後因杂荐绅先生之略术，使获燿日月之末光绝炎，以展采错事，犹兼正列其义，校饬厥文，作春秋一艺，将袭旧六为七，摅之无穷，俾万世得激清流，扬微波，蜚英声，腾茂实。
前圣之所以永保鸿名而常为称首者用此，宜命掌故悉奏其义而览焉。
於是天子沛然改容，曰： 愉乎，朕其试哉！
乃迁思回虑，总公卿之议，询封禅之事，诗大泽之博，广符瑞之富。
乃作颂曰：
自我天覆，云之油油。
甘露时雨，厥壤可游。
万物熙熙，怀而慕思。名山非唯雨之，又润泽之；非唯濡之，氾尃濩之。
万物熙熙，怀而慕思。
名山显位，望君之来。
君乎君乎，侯不迈哉！
兹亦於舜，虞氏以兴。濯濯之麟，游彼灵畤。孟冬十月，君俎郊祀。
驰我君舆，帝以享祉。
三濯濯之麟，游彼灵畤。
孟冬十月，君俎郊祀。
驰我君舆，帝以享祉。
三代之前，盖未尝有。
宛宛黄龙，兴德而升；采色炫燿，熿炳煇煌。
正阳显见，觉寤黎烝。
於传载之，云受命所乘。
translation: 
If the ancient emperors were glorified for a moment and then perished, then what else can the narrator say to future generations? And can there be a saying that the seventy-two emperors were granted Zen status?
If you cultivate your moral principles, God will grant you auspiciousness. If you follow the auspiciousness and perform the act of enshrining Zen, it cannot be regarded as exceeding the rites.
Therefore, the sage kings do not abolish the ceremony of Zen, but practice etiquette, respect the earth gods, sincerely appeal to the gods, carve stones on Songshan Mountain to record their merits, in order to commend the most noble status, promote the virtues of the Ming Dynasty, display their titles and honors, and bestow great blessings so that the people can be honored.
The act of enshrining Zen is majestic and grand. It is the grandeur of the world. The great cause of being a king cannot be underestimated.
I hope Your Majesty will preserve it.
Then, the Taoist skills of the recommended gentlemen were combined, so that they could be illuminated by the distant light of the sun and moon, so that they could display their talents as officials and concentrate on running political affairs. It is also necessary to correct the time of the day, narrate human affairs, expound the great righteousness, revise and polish the text, and make it into a classic book like the Spring and Autumn Annals. The old six classics will be followed and added to the seven classics, and spread endlessly, so that it can still inspire loyal and righteous people after thousands of generations, raise microwaves, fly the voice of wisdom, and deliver lush fruits.
The reason why the sages of the previous generation could always maintain a great reputation and were often praised was that when performing the ceremony of enshrining Zen, one should order the aide to report all the great meanings of the enshrinement to His Majesty for viewing.
So the emperor changed his expression as if he had some realization and said, "Okay, I'll give it a try!"
The emperor thought about it, summarized the discussions of the ministers, asked about the specific situation of Feng Chan, recorded the greatness of the favor, and deduced the richness of Fu Rui.
So he wrote a hymn saying:
The sky covering me is filled with clouds.
With universal dew and timely rain, the land can be traveled.
The water that nourishes all things penetrates into the soil, and all living things are nourished. A stalk of good grain bears six ears, so why not accumulate the grain I harvest? Not only does it rain, but it also moistens the earth; it not only moistens me, but also spreads widely.
Everything is bustling and happy, nostalgic and longing for everything.
Famous mountains should have a prominent position and look forward to the arrival of the Holy King.
King, King! Why not perform the ceremony of Zen?
Zou Yu, who is rich in literary splendor, likes my garden; its white texture, black pattern, and its appearance are lovable. Be harmonious and respectful, just like a gentleman. I only heard about its reputation in the past, but now I’m witnessing its arrival. There were no footprints left on the road, which was a sign of auspiciousness from heaven.
This beast also appeared during the time of Yu and Shun, and Yu and Shun prospered because of it.
The fat Bailin once played in the five fields.
It was the tenth month of Mengdong, and the emperor went to the suburbs to offer sacrifices.
Bailin galloped to the king's chariot, and the king used it to burn it to the sky, bringing happiness to heaven.
Before the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, there probably was no such strange thing.
The flexing and stretching yellow dragon ascends to heaven because of encountering holy virtues. The colors sparkle and shine.
The appearance of the dragon body will surely awaken the people.
It is recorded in the "Book of Changes·Tuan Zhuan" that this is the so-called chariot that the emperor was appointed to ride on.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
厥之有章，不必谆谆。
披艺观之，天人之际已交，上下相发允答。
圣王之德，兢兢翼翼也。
故曰 兴必虑衰，安必思危 。
是以汤武至尊严，不失肃祗；舜在假典，顾省厥遗：此之谓也。
司马相如既卒五岁，天子始祭后土。
八年而遂先礼中岳，封于太山，至梁父禅肃然。
相如他所著，若遗平陵侯书、与五公子相难、草木书篇不采，采其尤著公卿者云。
太史公曰：春秋推见至隐，易本隐之以显，大雅言王公大人而德逮黎庶，小雅讥小己之得失，其流及上。
所以言虽外殊，其合德一也。
相如虽多虚辞滥说，然其要归引之节俭，此与诗之风谏何异。
杨雄以为靡丽之赋，劝百风一，犹驰骋郑卫之声，曲终而奏雅，不已亏乎？
余采其语可论者著于篇。
translation: 
Tian Fu Rui has made it clear that there is no need to warn him again.
It should be entrusted accordingly and tell the king to hold a Zen ceremony. Looking through the classics, we can see that there is a relationship between nature and human society, and the two inspire each other and are harmonious.
The virtue of a wise king is to act conscientiously and cautiously.
Therefore, we must consider decline when we are prosperous, and be aware of danger when we are peaceful and happy.
Therefore, although King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou were in the highest position, they still maintained the virtue of seriousness and respect. During the ceremony, Yu Shun still observed and reflected on his shortcomings and mistakes.
That's the truth. Sima Xiangru had been dead for five years before the emperor began to worship the earth god.
Eight years after his death, the emperor finally offered sacrifices to Zhongyue Mountain first, then to Mount Tai, and then to Liangfu Mountain and Zen Suran Mountain.
Xiangru's other works, such as "The Book of the Marquis of Pingling", "The Dilemma with the Five Young Masters", and "The Book of Caomu" are not included, but his works that are particularly famous among public ministers are included.
Tai Shigong said: "Spring and Autumn" can delve into the most subtle aspects of things, "Book of Changes" is originally subtle but can be explained in a simple way, "Daya" talks about the virtues of princes and the common people, "Xiaoya" ridicules the gains and losses of humble authors, but its rumors can affect court politics.
Therefore, although the external manifestations of words are different, their gentle and enlightening effect is the same.
Although the similar articles contain many false words and exaggerated statements, their main theme is frugality. How is this different from the satirical remonstrance in the Book of Songs?
Yang Xiong believes that among Xiangru's gorgeous poems, there is a one hundred to one relationship between words that encourage luxury and words that advocate frugality. This is like playing the sounds of Zheng and Wei to your heart's content, but playing a little elegant music at the end of the piece.
Doesn’t this detract from the value of Xiangru’s words? I have collected some of his explanatory words and written them in this article.


