Chunk 0: 
original: 
盖宽饶字次公，魏郡人也。
明经为郡文学，以孝廉为郎。
举方正，对策高第，迁谏大夫，行郎中户将事。
劾奏卫将军张安世子侍中阳都侯彭祖不下殿门，并连及安世居位无补。
彭祖时实下门，宽饶坐举奏大臣非是，左迁为卫司马。
先是时，卫司马在部，见卫尉拜谒，常为卫官繇使市买。
宽饶视事，案旧令，遂揖官属以下行卫者。
卫尉私使宽饶出，宽饶以令诣官府门上谒辞。
尚书责问卫尉，由是卫官不复私使候、司马。
候、司马不拜，出先置卫，辄上奏辞，自此正焉。
宽饶初拜为司马，未出殿门，断其禅衣，令短离地，冠大冠，带长剑，躬案行士卒庐室，视其饮食居处，有疾病者身自抚循临问，加致医药，遇之甚有恩。
及岁尽交代，上临飨罢卫卒，卫卒数千人皆叩头自请，愿复留共更一年，以报宽饶厚德。
宣帝嘉之，以宽饶为太中大夫，使行风俗，多所称举贬黜，奉使称意。
擢为司隶校尉，刺举无所回避，小大辄举，所劾奏众多，廷尉处其法，半用半不用，公卿贵戚及郡国吏繇使至长安，皆恐惧莫敢犯禁，京师为清。
平恩侯许伯入第，丞相、御史、将军、中二千石皆贺，宽饶不行。
许伯请之，乃往，从西阶上，东乡特坐。
许伯自酌曰： 盖君后至。
宽饶曰： 无多酌我，我乃酒狂。
丞相魏侯笑曰： 次公醒而狂，何必酒也？
坐者毕属目卑下之。
酒酣乐作，长信少府檀长卿起舞，为沐猴与狗斗，坐皆大笑。
宽饶不说，卬视屋而叹曰： 美哉！
translation: 
Gai Kuanrao, courtesy name Cigong, was from Weijun.
Because he was proficient in classics, he served as a county scholar, and because of his filial piety and integrity, he became a Langguan.
He was promoted to the title of Founder, took the imperial examination and achieved excellent results, was promoted to the imperial censor, and acted as the deputy general of the household.
He impeached Pengzu, the son of General Zhang Anshi of the Imperial Guard, for refusing to get out of the car in front of the palace gate, and because Anshi had no political achievements in his official position.
Peng Zu actually got off the car in front of the palace gate at that time. Kuan Rao committed the crime of reporting the minister's misrepresentation and was demoted to Sima Wei.
Before that, Sima Wei was in the official office. When he saw the Wei Wei, he wanted to pay homage and often went out to buy things for the Wei Wei.
After Kuanrao became the Sima of the Guards, according to the previous system, he bowed his hands and saluted the officials who were responsible for patrolling the guards.
Weiwei sent Kuanrao out privately, and Kuanrao went to Shangshu Yamen to submit an application according to the system.
The minister then questioned the Wei Wei, and from then on the Wei officials no longer sent Pai Hou and Sima without permission.
Hou and Sima no longer paid homage to the emperor. When the emperor traveled, Hou and Sima, as the forerunners, had to give memorials first, and this was institutionalized from then on.
Kuanrao was appointed as Sima Chu. He did not leave the palace gate, cut his single coat short so that it could leave the ground, wore a big hat, and carried a long sword. He personally visited the soldiers' houses, inspected their diet and daily life, personally comforted and asked the sick soldiers, gave them medicine, and treated them very kindly.
When the shift was handed over at the end of the year, the emperor personally rewarded the retired soldiers. Thousands of soldiers kowtowed and asked to stay and serve for another year to repay the generous kindness.
Emperor Xuan commended him for his kindness, appointed him as Taizhong doctor, and asked him to inspect the customs of various places. He commended, recommended, demoted, and deposed many people, and completed the mission in line with the emperor's wishes.
Therefore, he was promoted to the rank of Sili Xiaowei, and he was able to inspect and expose the mistakes of officials without hesitation. Small and big matters were reported to the public, and many people were impeached. The Tingwei dealt with them according to the law, and half of his opinions were adopted and half were not adopted. However, the ministers, nobles, and officials of the county and state who were envoys to Chang'an were all too afraid to violate the ban, and the capital was peaceful.
When Ping Enhou Xu Bo moved into his new residence, all the prime ministers, censors, generals, and officials with a salary of two thousand dan went to congratulate him, but Kuan Rao did not go.
Uncle Xu invited him, so he went up to the hall from the west steps and sat alone facing the east.
Uncle Xu poured him wine himself and said: "You are late."
Kuanrao said: Don't pour more wine for me. I'll go crazy if I drink too much.
Prime Minister Wei Hou smiled and said: "You are a little crazy when you are awake. Why do you have to drink?"
Everyone present looked at him with contempt.
When the wine was in full swing, the music started playing. Tan Changqing, the young master of Changxin, got up and danced, performing a monkey and dog fight, and everyone present laughed.
Kuangrao was unhappy, looked up at the roof and sighed, "How beautiful!"


Chunk 1: 
original: 
然富贵无常，忽则易人，此如传舍，所阅多矣。
唯谨慎为得久，君侯可不戒哉！
因起趋出，劾奏长信少府以列卿而沐猴舞，失礼不敬。
上欲罪少府，许伯为谢，良久，上乃解。
宽饶为人刚直高节，志在奉公。
家贫。奉钱月数千，半以给吏民为耳目言事者。
身为司隶，子常步行自戍北边，公廉如此。
然深刻喜陷害人，在位及贵戚人与为怨，又好言事刺讥，奸犯上意。
上以其儒者，优容之，然亦不得迁。
同列后进或至九卿，宽饶自以行清能高，有益于国，而为凡庸所越，愈失意不快，数上疏谏争。
太子庶子王生高宽饶节，而非其如此，予书曰： 明主知君洁白公正，不畏强御，故命君以司察之位，擅君以奉使之权，尊官厚禄已施于君矣。
君宜夙夜惟思当世之务，奉法宣化，忧劳天下，虽日有益，月有功，犹未足以称职而报恩也。
自古之治，三王之术各有制度。
今君不务循职而已，乃欲以太古久远之事匡拂天子，数进不用难听之语以摩切左右，非所以扬令名全寿命者也。
方今用事之人皆明习法令，言足以饰君之辞，文足以成君之过，君不惟蘧氏之高踪，而慕子胥之末行，用不訾之躯，临不测之险，窃为君痛之。
夫君子直而不挺，曲而不诎。
《大雅》云： 既明且哲，以保其身。
狂夫之言，圣人择焉。
唯裁省览。
宽饶不纳其言。
translation: 
However, wealth is impermanent, and everything changes in a blink of an eye. When the owner changes, the building becomes like a hotel. I have seen it a lot.
Only by being cautious can we maintain our long-term success. How could you not be vigilant?
So he stood up and walked out quickly, impeaching Changxin Shaofu to perform the monkey dance as a minister, which was disrespectful.
The emperor wanted to punish the young master, but Xu Bo apologized for him. After a long time, the emperor stopped pursuing the case.
Kuan Rao is an upright person with high integrity and determination to serve the court.
His family was poor, and his monthly salary was several thousand, half of which was used to pay for the officials and common people who investigated and reported the situation for him.
As an official, his son once walked to the northern border to work as a guard. He was fair and honest to the point where he was fair and honest.
However, he was a serious man and liked to frame others. People in power and relatives of the emperor resented him. He also liked to ridicule political affairs and offend the emperor's will.
The emperor treated him favorably and tolerantly because he was a Confucian, but he was not promoted.
Some people who had the same position as him or who entered the officialdom later than him had already reached the rank of Jiuqing. Kuan Gao believed that he was honest, capable, and capable of making contributions to the country. However, he was even more frustrated when ordinary and mediocre people surpassed him. He wrote several memorials to remonstrate with him.
The prince's concubine Wang Sheng thought that leniency was a noble act, but he did not approve of his doing so, so he wrote to him: The wise emperor knows that you are honest, just, and not afraid of violence, so he put you in the official position in charge of reporting and granted you the power to execute the emperor's edict. You have been given high official and generous salary.
You should think about the important tasks of the day day and night, implement laws, preach education, and share the labor and relieve the worries of the people in the world. Even if you contribute every day and make merit every month, you are still not qualified enough to repay the emperor's great kindness.
The country has been governed since ancient times, and the three generations have had different ways of governing the country.
Now it's just that you don't strive to fulfill your duties, but you want to use ancient examples to correct and assist the emperor. Several times your advice cannot be adopted or is difficult to be obeyed, and you use it to discuss with the emperor's left and right. This is not a way to spread a good name and save your life.
The people in power today are very familiar with the law. Their words are enough to distort your words, and their articles are enough to make you wrong. Instead of learning from Zang Boyu's foresight, you repeat Wu Zixu's mistakes and use your precious body to approach that unfathomable danger. I feel sad for you privately.
A gentleman is upright but not stiff; he is crooked but not yielding at all.
The Book of Songs says: Only those who understand the truth and have wisdom can protect themselves.
The saint can also choose to adopt what the mad man says.
I hope you will review the ruling.
Kuan Rao did not take his words into consideration.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
是时，上方用刑法，信任中尚书宦官，宽饶奏封事曰： 方今圣道浸废，儒术不行，以刑余为周、召，以法律为《诗》、《书》。
又引《韩氏易传》言： 五帝官天下，三王家天下，家以传子，官以传贤，若四时之运，功成者去，不得其人则不居其位。
书奏，上以宽饶怨谤终不改，下其书中二千石。
时，执金吾议，以为宽饶指意欲求禅，大逆不道。
谏大夫郑昌愍伤宽饶忠直忧国，以言事不当意而为文吏所诋挫，上书颂宽饶曰： 臣闻山有猛兽，藜藿为之不采；国有忠臣，奸邪为之不起。
司隶校尉宽饶居不求安，食不球饱，进有忧国之心，退有死节之义，上无许、史之属，下无金、张之托，职在司察，直道而行，多仇少与，上书陈国事，有司劾以大辟，臣幸得从大夫之后，官以谏为名，不敢不言。
上不听，遂下宽饶吏。
宽饶引佩刀自刭北阙下，众莫不怜之。
诸葛丰字少季，琅邪人也。
以明经为郡文学，名特立刚直。
贡禹为御史大夫，除丰为属，举侍御史。
元帝擢为司隶校尉，刺举无所避，京师为之语曰： 间何阔，逢诸葛。
上嘉其节，加丰秩光禄大夫。
时，侍中许章以外属贵幸，奢淫不奉法度，宾客犯事，与章相连。
丰案劾章，欲奉其事，适逢许侍中私出，丰驻车举节诏章曰： 下！
欲收之。
章迫窘，驰车去，丰追之。
许侍中因得入宫门，自归上。
丰亦上奏，于是收丰节。
司隶去节自丰始。
丰上书谢曰： 臣丰驽怯，文不足以劝善，武不足以执邪。
陛下不量臣能否，拜为司隶校尉，未有以自效，复秩臣为光禄大夫，官尊责重，非臣所当处也。
translation: 
At this time, the emperor was governing the country with criminal laws. He trusted the eunuchs of Zhongshangshu and handed over a sealed memorial saying: Nowadays, the tradition of saints is gradually abandoned and Confucian scholarship cannot be implemented. The intruders who have been punished by castration are regarded as the Duke of Zhou summoning the public, and the law is regarded as the "Book of Poetry".
It also quoted the "Han Shi Yi Zhuan" as saying: The five emperors regarded the world as the commonwealth, the three kings regarded the world as the family, passed on the world as the family to their descendants, and regarded the world as the commonwealth to pass on to the virtuous. Just like the movement of the four seasons, those who have accomplished something will leave, and those who are not the right person will no longer be in their place.
After sending the seal to the emperor, the emperor thought that he had not repented after all, so he handed over his memorial to Zhong Erqianshi.
At that time, Zhi Jinwu commented that Lenon's intention was to ask the emperor to abdicate, which was treason.
Zheng Chang, the admonishing doctor, had pity on Gen Geng, was loyal, upright and concerned about state affairs. Because his discussion of state affairs was not in line with the emperor's wishes, he was slandered and slandered by the officials who were eloquent. So he wrote a letter to praise Gen Geng and said: I heard that there are ferocious beasts in the mountains, so tribulations are not picked; the country has loyal ministers, so treacherous people dare not rise up.
The captain of Sili lived generously and did not seek comfort or food. He was in the imperial court but had a concern for the country. He retreated to the fields but had the loyalty to sacrifice his life for his moral integrity. He did not seek refuge with the families of Xu and Shi at the top, and did not accept the requests of Jin and Zhang at the bottom. His true duties were Supervise, insist on doing things in the right way, have many enemies and few party members, write memorials to state important national affairs, and officials impeach him on charges of serious punishment. I am fortunate to follow the doctor and hold an official position known as admonishment, and I dare not not say it.
The emperor refused to obey, so he handed over mercy to the jailer.
Kuanrao drew his sword and committed suicide at the foot of the North Tower. People all pitied him.
Zhuge Feng, whose courtesy name was Shaoji, was from Langxie.
Because he was proficient in classics, he took charge of the county's literature and was famous for his independence, strength and integrity.
Gong Yu was the imperial censor. He appointed Zhuge Feng as a subordinate official, and later recommended him to serve as the censor.
Emperor Yuan promoted him to the position of Sili Xiaowei, and he was able to avoid any investigation or prosecution. People in the capital made up a sentence for him: Why haven't we seen each other for a long time? It's just because I met Zhuge.
The emperor commended him for his integrity and awarded him the title of Doctor Guanglu.
At that time, Xu Zhang, the servant, was honored and favored by virtue of his status as a relative. He was extravagant and did not abide by the law. One of his retainers committed an offense and was implicated in Xu Zhang.
Zhuge Feng investigated Xu Zhang in accordance with the law and wanted to report his case. He happened to meet Xu Shizhong going out privately. Zhuge Feng stopped the car, raised the talisman in his hand and ordered Xu Zhang: "Come down!"
Want to arrest him.
Xu Zhang was embarrassed and drove away, with Zhuge Feng chasing him behind.
Xu Shizhong was then able to enter the palace gate and beg for mercy from the emperor.
Zhuge Feng also submitted a memorial, and at that time the emperor confiscated Zhuge Feng's talisman.
Sili's cancellation of the Talisman Festival began with Zhuge Feng.
Zhuge Feng wrote a letter to apologize and said: I am dull and cowardly. My literary side cannot encourage good deeds, and my military side cannot suppress evil deeds.
Your Majesty, you did not examine my ability, so you appointed me as the Sili Xiaowei. I have not made any contribution, and you also named me Guanglu doctor. The official position is noble and has great responsibilities. This is really not what I am suitable for.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
又迫年岁衰暮，常恐卒填沟渠，无以报厚德，使论议士讥臣无补，长获素餐之名。
故常愿捐一旦之命，不待时而断奸臣之首，悬于都市，编书其罪，使四方明知为恶之罚，然后却就斧钺之诛，诚臣所甘心也。夫以布衣之士，尚犹有刎颈之交，今以四海之大，曾无伏节死谊之臣，率尽苟合取容，阿党相为，念私门之利，忘国家之政。
邪秽浊混之气上感于天，是以灾变数见，百姓困乏。
此臣下不忠之效也，臣诚耻之亡已。
凡人情莫不欲安存而恶危亡，然忠臣直士不避患害者，诚为君也。
今陛下天覆地载，物无不容，使尚书令尧赐臣丰书曰： 夫司隶者刺举不法，善善恶恶，非得颛之也。
勉处中和，顺经术意。 恩深德厚，臣丰顿首幸甚。
臣窃不胜愤懑，愿赐清宴，唯陛下裁幸。
上不许。
是后，所言益不用，丰复上书言： 臣闻伯奇孝而弃于亲，子胥忠而诛于君，隐公慈而杀于弟，叔武弟而杀于兄。
夫以四子之行，屈平之材，然犹不能自显而被刑戮，岂不足以观哉！
使臣杀身以安国，蒙诛以显君，臣诚愿之。
独恐未有云补，而为众邪所排，令谗夫得遂，正直之路雍塞，忠臣沮心，智士杜口，此愚臣之所惧也。
丰以春夏系治人，在位多言其短。
上徙丰为城门校尉，丰上书告光禄勋周堪、光禄大夫张猛。
上不直丰，乃制诏御史： 城门校尉丰，前与光禄勋堪、光禄大夫猛在朝之时，数称言堪、猛之美。
translation: 
Moreover, I am approaching my twilight years, and I often worry that I will die suddenly and be unable to repay your great kindness, causing people to ridicule me for not contributing to the country and forever being known as a freeloader.
So I often hope that I can dedicate the rest of my life, cut off the heads of traitors at any time, hang them in the market, write out their crimes, and let people from all over the world know the punishment for doing evil, so that I can retire and accept severe punishment in the future. This is indeed what I am willing to do. Scholars who are willing, like civilians, have friends who can live and die together. Nowadays, with the vastness of the world, there are no ministers who are willing to sacrifice justice. Instead, most of them are just to cater to them, just colluding with party members to do whatever they want, only caring about their own personal interests and forgetting the political affairs of the country.
The evil, filthy and turbid atmosphere touched the heavens, so disasters and accidents occurred many times, and the people were in poverty and poverty.
This is the consequence of my disloyalty, and I am truly ashamed of it.
Most people do not want to live a good life and hate danger and death. However, the reason why loyal ministers and upright people do not avoid hardship and disaster is actually for the sake of the king.
Now, Your Majesty, you are like the sky that covers all things and like the earth, you bear everything, no matter what is not tolerated, you sent the minister Yao to give me an edict saying: Si Li investigates and reports those who do not abide by the law, commends good deeds and punishes evil deeds, and is not allowed to act arbitrarily.
We must strive to implement the principle of moderation and harmony and do things according to the meaning of the scriptures. You have profound kindness. I kowtow to you and feel extremely honored.
Privately, I can't bear the worry, anger and boredom. I hope you will reward me with a leisurely life and I hope you will judge.
The emperor did not allow it.
After that, what he said was less and less accepted, and Zhuge Feng wrote again: I heard that Boqi was filial but was abandoned by his parents, Zixu was loyal but was killed by the king, Yin Gong was kind but was killed by his younger brother, Shuwu respected his elder brother but was killed by his elder brother.
With the virtues of these four people and Qu Yuan's talents, he still couldn't let himself show off and was killed instead. Isn't that enough of a lesson?
If I can give my life to stabilize the country and be killed to bring glory to the king, I am really willing to do it.
I'm afraid that it will not be beneficial to the country, but will be squeezed out by some evil forces, allowing those who blindly speak ill of people behind their backs and frame others to succeed. The path of upright people will be blocked, loyal ministers will be cold-hearted, and wise people will be silenced. This is what I am afraid of.
Zhuge Feng arrested and punished prisoners in spring and summer, and many people in power spoke ill of him.
The emperor transferred Zhuge Feng to serve as the city gate captain. Zhuge Feng wrote a letter to accuse Guanglu Xun Zhou Kan and Guanglu doctor Zhang Meng.
The emperor thought that Zhuge Feng was wrong, so he issued an edict to the censor: Zhuge Feng, the captain of the city gate school, once worked with Guanglu Xun Zhou Kan and Guanglu doctor Zhang Meng in the court. He praised the merits of Zhou Kan and Zhang Meng many times.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
丰前为司隶校尉，不顺四时，修法度，专作苛暴，以获虚威，朕不忍下吏，以为城门校尉。
不内省诸己。而反怨堪、猛，以求报举，告案无证之辞，暴扬难验之罪，毁誉恣意，不顾前言，不信之大者也。
朕怜丰之耆老，不忍加刑，其免为庶人。
终于家。
刘辅，河间宗室人也。
举孝廉，为襄贲令。
上书言得失，召见，上美其材，擢为谏大夫。
会成帝欲立赵婕妤为皇后，先下诏封婕妤父临为列侯。
辅上书言： 臣闻天之所与，必先赐以符瑞；天之所违，必先降以灾变：此神明之征应，自然之占验也。
昔武王、周公承顺天地，以飨鱼乌之瑞，然犹君臣祗惧，动色相戒，况于季世，不蒙继嗣之福，屡受威怒之异者虖！
虽夙夜自责，改过易行，畏天命，念祖业，妙选有德之世，考卜窈窕之女，以承宗庙，顺神祇心，塞天下望，子孙之详犹恐晚暮，今乃触情纵欲，倾于卑贱之女，欲以母天下，不畏于天，不愧于人，惑莫大焉。
里语曰： 腐木不可以为柱，卑人不可以为主。 天人之所不予，必有祸而无福，市道皆共知之，朝廷莫肯一言，臣窃伤心。
自念得以同姓拔擢，尸禄不忠，污辱谏争之官，不敢不尽死，唯陛下深察。
书奏，上使侍御史收缚辅，系掖庭秘狱，群臣莫知其故。
于是中朝左将军辛庆忌、右将军廉褒、光禄勋师丹、太中大夫谷永俱上书曰： 臣闻明王垂宽容之听，崇谏争之官，广开忠直之路，不罪狂狷之言，然后百僚在位，竭忠尽谋，不惧后患，朝廷无谄谀之士，元首无失道之愆。
窃见谏大夫刘辅，前以县令求见，擢为谏大夫，此其言必有卓诡切至，当圣心者，故得拔至于此。
旬日之间，收下秘狱，臣等愚，以为辅幸得托公族之亲，在谏臣之列，新从下土来，未知朝廷体，独触忌讳，不足深过。
小罪宜隐忍而已，如有大恶，宜暴治理官，与众共之。
昔赵简子杀其大夫鸣犊，孔子临河而还。
今天心未豫，灾异屡降，水旱迭臻，方当隆宽广问，褒直尽下之时也。
而行惨急之诛于谏争之臣，震惊群下，失忠直心。
假令辅不坐直言，所坐不著，天下不可户晓。
同姓近臣本以言显，其于治亲养忠之义诚不宜幽囚于掖庭狱。
公卿以下见陛下进用辅亟，而折伤之暴，人有惧心，精锐销耎，莫敢尽节正言，非所以昭有虞之听，广德美之风也。
臣等窃深伤之，唯陛下留神省察。
上乃徙系辅共工狱，减死罪一等，论为鬼薪。
终于家。
translation: 
Zhuge Feng, a former Sili school captain, did not follow the seasons or follow the rule of law, but specialized in harsh cruelty, thus gaining false prestige. I could not bear to hand him over to the jailer, so I asked him to serve as the city gate school captain.
Instead of introspecting, he instead resented Zhou Kan and Zhang Meng, seeking revenge. His words of conviction had no evidence, he exposed crimes that were difficult to verify, and he relied solely on subjective wishes to slander and praise others, regardless of what he had said before. This was a serious act of not being trustworthy.
I pity Zhuge Feng that he is old and cannot bear to impose punishment, so I order him to be removed from his official position and become a commoner.
Zhuge Feng died at home.
Liu Fu is a member of the royal family of Hejian Kingdom.
He was promoted to Xiaolian and served as the county magistrate of Xiangbi.
He wrote a memorial to discuss the gains and losses of national affairs, and was summoned by the emperor. The emperor appreciated his talents and promoted him to the position of admonishing doctor.
Just in time when Emperor Cheng wanted to make Tang Jiandan his queen, he first issued an edict to confer the title of prince to Lin, the envoy's father.
Liu Fu wrote a letter and said: I heard that if God agrees, he will definitely give auspicious signs, and if God disagrees, he will definitely send disasters and changes. This is a sign from the gods and a natural prediction.
In the past, King Wu and Duke Zhou obeyed the will of heaven and earth, and thus received the auspiciousness of white fish and red crows. However, the monarchs and ministers were still worried, shocked, and vigilant in admonishing each other. How much more so in today's last days, when they have not received the blessing of offspring and descendants, but have repeatedly suffered disasters caused by the power and wrath of heaven?
Even if you blame yourself every day, correct your mistakes and behavior, fear the destiny, think of the achievements of your ancestors, choose a virtuous family, pray for a beautiful and capable woman to inherit the ancestral temple, comply with the will of the gods, and satisfy the wishes of the people of the world, The auspiciousness of procreating descendants, which I was worried had come too late, now triggers my affection and indulges my desires. I am devoted to this humble woman and want to regard her as the mother of all people in the world. I am not in awe of God and not ashamed of the people. There is nothing more stupid than this.
As the saying goes: Rotten wood cannot be used to make pillars, and lowly people cannot be made masters. If God and the people disapprove of it, it must be harmful but not beneficial. This is a truth that everyone in the market and on the road knows, but no one in the court is willing to tell the truth. I secretly feel sad.
I thought that because I was promoted because I have the same surname as the emperor, I only enjoyed the salary but did not show loyalty, and insulted the official position of the remonstrance. I dare not risk my life to speak out. I hope that your majesty will examine it deeply.
After the memorial was presented, the emperor sent his censor to arrest Liu Fu and imprison him in a secret prison in the harem. None of the ministers understood the reason.
At that time, the Chinese left general Xin Qingji, the right general Lian Bao, Guang Lu Xun Crocodile, and Taizhong doctor Gui Su all reported: We have heard that a wise king listens widely to opinions, pays attention to the admonition of quiet officials, opens the way for loyal and upright people, and does not punish arrogant and impatient remarks. Then all ministers keep their own positions and try their best to contribute their loyalty and wisdom. The court has no worries, there are no flattering officials in the court, and the monarch has no fault of deviating from the right path.
We have privately seen that Liu Fu, the admonishing doctor, used to meet the emperor as a county magistrate and was promoted to admonishing doctor. This shows that his opinions must be extraordinary, accurate and in line with the holy content, so he can be promoted to such a position.
However, within ten days, he was arrested and imprisoned in a secret prison. We were ignorant and thought that Liu Fu was lucky enough to be entrusted as a relative of the royal family and to be in the ranks of admonishers. He came from a lower position and did not know the imperial system. He violated taboos on his own and was not worthy of further investigation.
Small crimes should be tolerated. If there are major crimes, they should be handed over to judicial officials for public trial, so that everyone can know his crimes and punish him together.
Once upon a time, Confucius went to Jianzi to kill his doctor Mingdu. Confucius walked to the Yellow River and returned.
Nowadays, God's will is not happy, disasters are coming frequently, and floods and droughts are coming one after another. It is the time to be generous, solicit opinions widely, and praise integrity to maximize the power of the people.
However, he carried out tragic and sudden executions on ministers who dared to remonstrate, which shocked everyone and chilled the hearts of loyal and upright people.
If Liu Fu did not commit a crime because he spoke out and dared to remonstrate, then no one in the world would know about the crime he committed if he did not publicly announce it.
A minister who has the same surname as the emperor and is close to the emperor originally gained high status because he dared to tell the truth. From the perspective of dealing with relatives and protecting loyal people, he should not be secretly imprisoned in Yeting Prison.
When the ministers and officials below saw that Your Majesty was so eager to promote Liu Fu, but was so brutal in attacking and injuring him, everyone was filled with fear. Their will to be enterprising disappeared and they became weak. They no longer dared to perform their duties faithfully and uphold the right opinions. This was not the practice of Yu and Shun who listened to the opinions of his ministers and promoted good moral character.
We are privately deeply saddened by this and hope you will pay attention and review it.
The emperor then moved and imprisoned Liu Fu to the imperial prison under the control of the Shaofu, reduced the death penalty to one degree, and sentenced him to hard labor in the ancestral temple.
He is always at home.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
郑崇字子游，本高密大族，世与王家相嫁娶。
祖父以訾徙平陵。
父宾明法令，为御史，事贡公，名公直。
崇少为郡文学史，至丞相大车属。
弟立与高武侯傅喜同门学，相友善。
喜为大司马，荐崇，哀帝擢为尚书仆射。
数求见谏争，上初纳用之。
每见曳革履，上笑曰： 我识郑尚书履声。
久之，上欲封祖母傅太后从弟商，崇谏曰： 孝成皇帝封亲舅五侯，天为赤黄昼昏，日中有黑气。
今祖母从昆弟二人已侯。
孔乡侯，皇后父；高武侯以三公封，尚有因缘。
今无故欲复封商，坏乱制度，逆天人之心，非傅氏之福也。
臣闻师曰： 逆阳者厥极弱，逆阴者厥极凶短折，犯人者有乱亡之患，犯神者有疾夭之祸。 故周公著戒曰： 惟王不知艰难，唯耽乐是从，时亦罔有克寿。 故衰世之君夭折蚤没，此皆犯阴之害也。
臣愿以身命当国咎。
崇因持诏书案起。
傅太后大怒曰： 何有为天子乃反为一臣所颛制邪！
上遂下诏曰： 朕幼而孤，皇太太后躬自养育，免于襁褓，教道以礼，至于成人，惠泽茂焉。 欲报之德，昊天罔极。 前追号皇太太后父为崇祖侯，惟念德报未殊，朕甚恧焉。
侍中光禄大夫商，皇太太后父同产子，小自保大，恩义最亲。
其封商为汝昌侯，为崇祖侯后，更号崇祖侯为汝昌哀侯。
崇又以董贤贵宠过度谏，由是重得罪。
数以职事见责，发疾颈痈，欲乞骸骨，不敢。
尚书令赵昌佞谄，素害崇，知其见疏，因奏崇与宗族通，疑有奸，请治。
translation: 
Zheng Chong, also known as Ziyou, originally belonged to a wealthy family in Gaomi Kingdom and had been intermarrying with the Wang family for generations.
My grandfather moved to Pingling because he had money.
His father, Zheng Bin, was well versed in laws, served as a royal censor, and served Duke Gong. He was known for his fairness and uprightness.
Zheng Chong served as the literary historian of the county when he was young, and later became a chariot attendant in the Prime Minister's Mansion.
His younger brother Zheng Li and Gao Wuhou Fu Xi studied under the same teacher and were friendly to each other.
When Fu happy became the Grand Sima, he recommended Zheng Chong, and Emperor Ai promoted him to the position of Minister of Public Affairs.
He asked to see the emperor several times to remonstrate, and the emperor initially accepted his opinions.
Every time he saw him dragging his rawhide shoes, the emperor smiled and said: I can hear Zheng Shangshu's footsteps.
After a long time, the emperor wanted to knight Fu Shang, the cousin of his grandmother, the Empress Dowager Fu. Zheng Chongjin advised him: Emperor Xiaocheng made five of his uncles marquis. As a result, the sky turned red and yellow, the daytime became dim, and there was black energy in the sun.
Now your grandmother's two cousins ​​have become marquises.
Marquis Kongxiang was the father of the queen; Marquis Gaowu was granted the title of Marquis based on his status as the Third Duke. It can be said that there are certain reasons for these.
Now he wants to ennoble Fu Shang for no reason, which creates havoc and disrupts the system. It goes against the will of God and people's hearts, and is not Fu Kuang's blessing.
I heard the teacher say: Those who violate Yang are extremely weak, and those who violate Yin will be short-lived and premature. Those who violate others will be in danger of disaster and destruction, and those who offend the gods will be in danger of illness and death. So the Duke of Zhou wrote a precept and said: The king who does not know the difficulties of the country and indulges in entertainment rarely can live a long life. Therefore, the king in the period of decline will die young and die prematurely, which is a disaster that violates the principles of Yin.
I would rather use my own life to resist the disaster of the country.
Zheng Chong then stood up holding the edict board.
Empress Dowager Fu said angrily: How could anyone who is the emperor be subdued by a minister?
The emperor then issued an edict saying: I became an orphan when I was young. I was raised by the emperor's wife herself. She educated me when I was a baby and taught me etiquette and justice until I grew up. I was deeply benevolent. I want to repay this kind of kindness, God, my heart is endless. In the past, the father of the Queen Mother was named Chongzu Hou. I feel very ashamed when I think that I have not repaid her kindness enough.
Fu Shang, the Guanglu doctor in the service, was the nephew of the Empress Dowager's father. The Empress Dowager raised him since he was a child, and he was the closest to him in kindness and kindness.
The order was given to seal the fort as this Danbao, let him be the descendant of Sai Lord, and changed the title of Sai Danhou to Rulu Aihou.
Zheng Chong also remonstrated with the emperor because Dong Xian was too favored by the nobles, and therefore committed a serious crime.
He was reprimanded several times for his duties, and he developed paralysis in his neck. He wanted to request that he return to his hometown for retirement, but he did not dare to complain.
The minister ordered Zhao Chang to be a treacherous and flattering person. He had always been jealous of Zheng Chong and knew that he had been alienated. Therefore, he sent a report saying that Zheng Chong was colluding with the royal family and suspected of being a treacherous person. Please investigate him.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
上责崇曰： 君门如市人，何以欲禁切主上？
崇对曰： 臣门如市，臣心如水，愿得考覆。
上怒，下崇狱，穷治，死狱中。
孙宝字子严，颍川鄢陵人也，以明经为郡吏。
御史大夫张忠辟宝为属，欲令授子经，更为除舍，设储偫。
宝自劾去，忠固还之，心内不平。
后署宝主簿，宝徙入舍，祭灶请比邻。
忠阴察，怪之，使所亲问宝： 前大夫为君设除大舍，子自劾去者，欲为高节也。
今两府高士俗不为主簿，子既为之，徙舍甚说，何前后不相副也？
宝曰： 高士不为主簿，而大夫君以宝为可，一府莫言非，士安得独自高？
前日君男欲学文，而移宝自近。
礼有来学，义无往教；道不可诎，身诎何伤？
且不遭者可无不为，况主簿乎！
忠闻之，甚惭，上书荐宝经明质直，宜备近臣。
为议郎，迁谏大夫。
鸿嘉中，广汉群盗起，选为益州刺史。
广汉太守扈商者，大司马车骑将军王音姊子，软弱不任职。
宝到部，亲入山谷，谕告群盗，非本造意。渠率皆得悔过自出，遣归田里。
自劾矫制，奏商为乱首，《春秋》之义，诛首恶而已。
商亦奏宝所纵或有渠率当坐者。
商征下狱，宝坐失死罪免。
益州吏民多陈宝功效，言为车骑将军所排。
上复拜宝为冀州刺史，迁丞相司直。
时，帝舅红阳侯立使客因南郡太守李尚占垦草田数百顷，颇有民所假少府陂泽，略皆开发，上书愿以入县官。
有诏郡平田予直，钱有贵一万万以上。
宝闻之，遣丞相史按验，发其奸，劾奏立、尚怀奸罔上，狡猾不道。
尚下狱死。
立虽不坐，后兄大司马卫将军商薨，次当代商，上度立而用其弟曲阳侯根为大司马票骑将军。
会益州蛮夷犯法，巴、蜀颇不安，上以宝著名西州，拜为广汉太守，秩中二千石，赐黄金三十斤。
蛮夷安辑，吏民称之。
征为京兆尹。
translation: 
The emperor reproached Su Sai and said: You yourself have a large family, why do you blame the emperor?
Zheng Chong replied: Although I have a court like a city, my heart is calm. I am willing to be tortured and interrogated.
The emperor was furious and imprisoned Susai for thorough investigation. Zheng Chong died in prison.
Sun Bao, whose courtesy name was Ziyan, was the founder of Tibei Jianjian. Because he was proficient in classics, he served as a county official.
The imperial censor urgently recruited Xunxuan as his subordinate, hoping that he would teach his son Confucian classics, and also arrange a house for him and set up spare utensils.
Lian Xuan himself explained his shortcomings and asked to leave. Chui Gu repeatedly tried to persuade him to stay, but he felt unconvinced in his heart.
Later, Zhang Zhong appointed Sun Bao as acting chief registrar, and Sun Shi moved into a new residence, offered sacrifices to his beloved gods, and invited his neighbors.
Zhang Zhong observed secretly and was surprised by his actions, so he sent his trusted aide to ask Sun Bao: "In the past, the imperial censor arranged a spacious residence for you. The reason why you exposed your shortcomings and asked to leave is to show your noble integrity."
Nowadays, noble people in the prime minister's and imperial censor's houses refuse to serve as chief administrators as usual, but you yourself have taken up this position and are very happy to move into the new house. Why is it inconsistent?
Sun Bao replied: "Noble people do not serve as chief registrars, but the imperial censor thinks that I can be the chief clerk. No one in the government said it is inappropriate. How can a scholar promote himself in this way?"
Not long ago, the son of the imperial censor wanted to study scriptures and asked me to move closer to his residence.
According to etiquette, only students come to the teacher to learn, and according to reason, no teacher goes to the students to teach. Teachers should not be wronged, and what harm does it do to an individual if he is wronged?
And there is nothing impossible for people who encounter bad things, let alone being the chief bookkeeper!
Zhang Zhong felt very ashamed when he heard these words, so he wrote a memorial recommending Sun Bao, saying that he was proficient in classics, had an upright character, and was suitable to serve as a close minister of the emperor.
Sun Bao was appointed Yilang and later promoted to Admonishment Officer.
During the reign of Emperor Cheng Hongjia, thieves broke out in the Guanghan area, and Sun Bao was selected as the governor of Yizhou.
Hu Shang, the prefect of Guanghan County, was the nephew of Wang Yin, the cavalry general of the Grand Sima, and was cowardly and incompetent for his position.
Sun Bao came to the area under his jurisdiction, went deep into the valley in person, and told the thieves that as long as they were not the initiators of chaos, even the leaders could surrender and be sent back to their hometowns.
Later, Sun Bao himself exposed his mistake and accused Hu Shang of being the culprit of the rebellion. According to the righteousness of "Spring and Autumn", only the culprit was punished.
Hu Shang also reported that some of the thieves released by Sun Bao were leaders who should be convicted.
Hu Shang was conscripted and imprisoned, and Sun Shi was dismissed from his post for releasing a condemned criminal.
Officials and people in Yizhou made many statements about Sun Shi's achievements, saying that he was squeezed out by the generals of chariots and cavalry.
The emperor once again worshiped Sun Bao as the governor of Jizhou, and was later promoted to prime minister Sizhi.
At that time, the emperor's uncle, Hongyang Hou Wangli, sent retainers to occupy hundreds of hectares of reclaimed land through Li Shang, the prefect of Nanjun. Many of them were hillside rivers and swamps in Shaofu that the common people had rented. Most of them had been developed. Wang Li wrote a letter to newly reclaim the land and was willing to hand it over to the government.
The emperor issued an edict asking the county government to pay Wang Li the ordinary land price, which exceeded the current price by more than 10 million yuan.
After Sun Bao heard about this incident, he sent Prime Minister Shi to verify the facts and expose their treachery. He reported and accused Wang Li and Li Shang of being treacherous and deceiving the king, and being cunning and unethical.
Li Shang was imprisoned and died.
Although Wang Li was not convicted, later his brother Wang Shang, the Great Sima Wei General, died. According to the order, he should succeed Wang Shang. The emperor passed him and appointed his younger brother Quyanghou Wang Gen as the Great Sima Hussar General.
At that time, there happened to be barbarian riots in Yizhou, and the Bashu area was very unstable. The emperor thought that Sun Shi was very prestigious in Xizhou, so he made him the governor of Guangmo, with a salary of two thousand dan and thirty kilograms of gold.
The barbarians settled down, and officials and people praised him.
Sun Shi was recruited as Jing Zhaoyin.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
故吏侯文以刚直不苟合，常称疾不肯仕，宝以恩礼请文，欲为布衣友，日设酒食，妻子相对。
文求受署为掾，进见如宾礼。
数月，以立秋日署文东部督邮。
入见，敕曰： 今日鹰隼始击，当顺天气取奸恶，以成严霜之诛，掾部渠有其人乎？
文卬曰： 无其人不敢空受职。 宝曰： 谁也？
文曰： 霸陵杜稚季。
宝曰： 其次？
文曰： 豺狼横道，不宜复问狐狸。
宝默然。
稚季者大侠，与卫尉淳于长、大鸿胪萧育等皆厚善。
宝前失车骑将军，与红阳侯有隙，自恐见危，时淳于长方贵幸，友宝，宝亦欲附之，始视事而长以稚季托宝，故宝穷，无以复应文。
文怪宝气索，知其有故，因曰： 明府素著威名，今下敢取稚季，当且阖阁，勿有所问。
如此竟岁，吏民未敢诬明府也。
即度稚季而谴它事，众口讠雚哗，终身自堕。 宝曰： 受教。
稚季耳目长，闻知之，杜门不通水火，穿舍后墙为小户，但持锄自治园，因文所厚自陈如此。
文曰： 我与稚季幸同土壤，素无睚，顾受将命，分当相直。
诚能自改，严将不治前事，即不更心，但更门户，适趣祸耳。
稚季遂不敢犯法，宝亦竟岁无所谴。
明年，稚季病死。
宝为京兆尹三岁，京师称之。
会淳于长败，宝与萧育等皆坐免官。
文复去吏，死于家。
稚季子杜苍，字君敖，名出稚季右，在游侠中。
哀帝即位，征宝为谏大夫，迁司隶。
初，傅太后与中山孝王母冯太后俱事元帝，有隙，傅太后使有司考冯太后，令自杀，众庶冤之。
translation: 
The former official Hou Wen was strong and upright and refused to be conciliatory. He often claimed to be ill and did not want to be an official. Sun used kindness and etiquette to invite Hou Wen and wanted to become a commoner friend with him. They would have wine and food every day, and his wife and children would accompany him.
Hou Wen asked to be appointed as a subordinate official and to be treated as a guest when he entered the mansion.
A few months later, on the day of the Beginning of Autumn, Sun Bao appointed Hou Wen to be the postal supervisor of the Ministry of Shipping.
Hou Wen entered the house to see Sun Bao, and Sun Bao asked him: "Today the falcons started fighting. We should arrest the evildoers according to the weather to complete the task of severely cracking down. Are there such people in your jurisdiction?"
Hou Wen raised his head and said: Without such a person, I would not dare to accept the position you appointed in vain. Sun Shi said: Who is it?
Hou Wen said: Du Zhiji of Ba Ling.
Sun Shi said: Who else is next?
Hou Wen said: It is not appropriate to ask the fox when the jackal is in charge.
Sun Bao was silent.
Zhiji is a great knight, and is close friends with Wei Wei Chun Yuchang, Da Honglu and Xiao Yu.
Sun Bao had offended General Chariot and Cavalry in the past and had a quarrel with Hongyang Hou, so he was afraid that he would be in danger. At that time, Chunyu Chang had just gained favor and was very friendly to Sun Bao. Sun Shi also wanted to rely on him. When he first took office, Chunyu Chang entrusted Sun Bao with Zhiji's affairs, so Sun Shi was in trouble and could not reply to Hou Wen.
Hou Wen saw that Sun Bao was dejected and felt strange. Knowing that there must be a reason, he said: "You have always been prestigious. Now you dare not take Zhiji, so you should close the door for the time being and don't interfere."
If you wait like this until the end of the year, officials and people will not dare to slander you.
If you let go of childhood and punish other things, public opinion will become uproar and your life will be ruined. Sun Shi said: Accept the advice.
Zhi Ji had many ears and eyes. After hearing about the incident, he closed the door and refused to interact with people outside. He dug through the wall behind the house to open a small door and only managed the garden with a hoe. He stated these situations himself through people who had close connections with Hou Wen.
Hou Wen said: "Zhiji and I are fortunate to be from the same hometown. We usually don't even have a small quarrel. We just accepted the order of the prefect. My duty should be to punish you."
If you can truly correct your mistakes, I will no longer pursue the past. If you don't change your mind and just change your appearance, it will only accelerate the arrival of disaster.
Zhiji finally did not dare to break the law again, and Sun Bao did not punish others throughout the year.
The next year, Zhiji fell ill and died.
Sun Bao served as Jing Zhaoyin for three years, and people in the capital praised him.
When Chunyu Chang fell, Sun Bao, Xiao Yu and others were implicated and were dismissed from office.
Hou Wen also left his official position again and died at home.
Zhiji's son Du Cang, also known as Jun Ao, was more famous among the knights than Ji Ji.
When Emperor Ai came to the throne, he recruited Sun Shi as an admonishing official, and was later promoted to Sili.
At first, Empress Dowager Fu and Empress Dowager Feng, the mother of Prince Xiao of Zhongshan, served Emperor Yuan together. There was a rift between the two. Empress Dowager Fu sent officials in charge to torture Empress Dowager Feng and forced her to commit suicide. People all thought she was wronged.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
宝奏请覆治，傅太后大怒，曰： 帝置司隶，主使察我。
冯氏反事明白，故欲擿觖以扬我恶。
我当坐之。
上乃顺指下宝狱。
尚书仆射唐林争之，上以林朋党比周，左迁敦煌鱼泽障候。
大司马傅喜、光禄大夫龚胜固争，上为言太后，出宝复官。
顷之，郑崇下狱，宝上书曰： 臣闻疏不图亲，外不虑内。
臣幸得衔命奉使，职在刺举，不敢避贵幸之势，以塞视听之明。
按尚书令昌奏仆射崇，下狱复治，榜掠将死，卒无一辞，道路称冤。
疑昌与崇内有纤介，浸润相陷，自禁门内枢机近臣，蒙受冤谮，亏损国家，为谤不小。
臣请治昌，以解众心。
书奏，天子不说，以宝名臣不忍诛，乃制诏丞相、大司空： 司隶宝奏故尚书仆射崇冤，请狱治尚书令昌。
案崇近臣，罪恶暴著，而宝怀邪，附下罔上，以春月作诋欺，遂其奸心，盖国之贼也。
传不云乎？ 恶利口之覆国家。 其免宝为庶人。
哀帝崩，王莽白王太后征宝以为光禄大夫，与王舜等俱迎中山王。
平帝立，宝为大司农。
会越巂郡上黄龙游江中，太师孔光、大司徒马宫等咸称莽功德比周公，宜告祠宗庙。
宝曰： 周公上圣，召公大贤，尚犹有不相说，著于经典，两不相损。
今风雨未时，百姓不足，每有一事，群臣同声，得无非其美者。
时，大臣皆失色，侍中奉车都尉甄邯即时承制罢议者。
会宝遣吏迎母，母道病，留弟家，独遣妻子。
司直陈崇以奏宝，事下三公即讯。
宝对曰： 年七十悖眊，恩衰共养，营妻子，如章。
宝坐免，终于家。
建武中，录旧德臣，以宝孙伉为诸长。
毌将隆字君房，东海兰陵人也。
大司马车骑将军王音内领尚书，外典兵马，踵故选置从事中郎与参谋议，奏请隆为从事中郎，迁谏大夫。
成帝末，隆奏封事言： 古老选诸侯入为公卿，以褒功德，宜征定陶王使在国邸，以填万方。
其后上竟立定陶王为太子，隆迁翼州牧、颍川太守。
哀帝即位，以高第入为京兆尹，迁执金吾。
translation: 
Sun Bao submitted a memorial requesting for investigation. Empress Dowager Fu was furious and said: The emperor set up a secretary and sent an envoy to interrogate me.
The fact of Feng's rebellion is very clear, and some people deliberately want to find fault with me.
I want him to sit down together.
The emperor then followed the Queen Mother Fu's order and put Sun Bao in prison.
Shangshu Pushe Tang Lin argued the matter. The emperor believed that Tang Lin had formed a clique for personal gain and demoted him to the post of Dunhuang Yuzezhan Marquis.
Grand Sima Fu happy and Guanglu Doctor Gong Sheng persisted in their efforts, and the emperor interceded on their behalf with the Queen Mother, and then Sun Bao was released and his official position was restored.
Soon after, Zheng Chong was imprisoned. Sun Bao wrote a letter saying: I heard that people with distant relationships do not interfere with those who are close to each other, and outsiders do not consider other people's family affairs.
I am fortunate to be able to accept the mission and have the responsibility of prosecuting and reporting. I dare not avoid the power of the powerful and favored people to block the emperor's hearing and hearing so that the emperor does not know the true situation.
Shangshu Lingchang falsely accused his servant of shooting Zheng Chong and put him in prison for investigation and investigation. Zheng Chong was tortured to death. As a result, he did not give a confession. Even passers-by on the road said that he was unjustly accused.
I suspect that Chang and Zheng Chong have a rift, and the slanders are gradually increasing to frame each other. He is a close minister of the emperor, and he has been wronged, harming the country, and causing a lot of public criticism.
I sincerely request that Chang be punished to ease the people's sentiments.
After the report was made, the emperor was not happy. Because Sun Bao was a famous minister, the emperor could not bear to kill him, so the emperor issued an order to the prime minister and Grand Sikong: Sun Shi, the minister, reported that Zheng Chong, the former minister's servant, had been wronged, and requested that Shangshu Lingchang be imprisoned for review.
Zha Zhengchong is a minister around me, and his crimes are obvious, but Sun Shi has evil intentions, colludes with his ministers to deceive the emperor, and slanders and deceives him in the spring moon to realize his evil intentions. Isn't it said in "The Analects of Confucius"?
A person who subverts the country with his evil words and sophistry. He ordered Sun Bao to be dismissed as a civilian.
When Emperor Ai passed away, Wang Mang asked the Queen Mother to recruit Sun Shi to serve as Guanglu doctor, and went with Wang Shun and others to welcome the King of Zhongshan.
Emperor Ping ascended the throne, and Sun Bin served as chief agricultural officer.
It happened that Yuejun County reported that Huanglong was traveling in the river. Grand Master Kong Guang, Da Situ Ma Gong and others praised Wang Mang for his merits and virtues, which were comparable to those of Zhou Gong, and he should be sacrificed to the ancestral temple.
Sun Shi said: Duke Zhou is a great sage, Duke Zhao is a great sage. There were times when there was disharmony, as recorded in the scriptures, but this did no harm to either.
Nowadays, the wind and rain are unpredictable and the people are not yet rich. Whenever something happens, all the ministers agree with it. I'm afraid it's not very good.
At that time, the expressions of the ministers all changed, and Zhen Han, the captain of the imperial court, immediately ordered to stop the discussion.
It happened that Sun Shi sent officials to greet his mother. His mother fell ill on the way, so he stayed at his younger brother's house and only sent his wife and children to the capital.
Si Zhi Chen Chong made a case against Sun Bin, and the emperor handed the matter over to Sangong for interrogation on the spot.
Sun Shi replied: I am already seventy years old and my mind is confused. My affection for supporting my mother has become weak. I only care about my wife, family and children, just as the memorial said.
As a result, Sun Bao was dismissed from office and stayed at home for the rest of his life.
During the Jianwu period, virtuous ministers were appointed, and Sun Bao's grandson and his wife were appointed county magistrates of various counties.
Wu Jianglong, named Junfang, was from Lanling, Shuhai.
Wang Yin, the cavalry general of the Grand Sima, was in charge of Shangshu affairs inside the court and commanded troops and horses outside the court. Following the old practice, he selected and set up a Zhonglang to participate in the discussion and decision-making. He petitioned Wu Jianglong to be appointed Zhonglang, and was later promoted to an admonishing doctor.
In the last years of Emperor Cheng's reign, Wu Jianglong handed over a sealed memorial saying: In ancient times, princes were selected to serve as ministers in the imperial court in order to praise their merits. King Dingtao should be recruited and let him live in the mansion in Beijing in order to pacify the world.
After that, the emperor finally appointed King Tao as the crown prince, and Wu Jianglong was promoted to Jizhou Mu and Yingchuan Prefect.
After Emperor Ai came to the throne, Wu Jianglong was promoted to Jing Zhaoyin because of his excellent examination results, and was later promoted to Zhi Jinwu.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
时，侍中董贤方贵，上使中黄门发武库兵，前后十辈，送董贤及上乳母王阿舍。
隆奏曰： 武库兵器，天下公用，国家武备，缮治造作，皆度大司农钱。
大司农钱自乘舆不以给共养，共养劳赐，一出少府。
盖不以本臧给末用，不以民力共浮费，别公私，示正路也。
古者诸侯方伯得颛征伐，乃赐斧钺，汉家边吏，职在距寇，亦赐武库兵，皆任其事然后蒙之。
《春秋》之谊，家不臧甲，所以抑臣威，损私力也。
今贤等便僻弄臣，私恩微妾，而以天下公用给其私门，契国威器共其家备。
民力分于弄臣，武兵设于微妾，建立非宜，以广骄僣，非所以示四方也。
孔子曰： 奚取于三家之堂！
臣请收还武库。
上不说。
顷之，傅太后使谒者买诸官婢，贱取之，复取执金吾官婢八人。
隆奏言贾贱，请更平直。
上于是制诏丞相、御史大夫： 交让之礼兴，则虞、芮之讼息。
隆位九卿，既无以匡朝廷之不逮，而反奏请与永信宫争贵贱之贾，程奏显言，众莫不闻。
举错不由谊理，争求之名自此始，无以示百僚，伤化失俗。
以隆前有安国之言，左迁为沛郡都尉，迁南郡太守。
王莽少时，慕与隆交，隆不甚附。
哀帝崩，莽秉政，使大司徒孔光奏隆前为冀州牧治中山冯太后狱冤陷无辜，不宜处位在中土。
本中谒者令史立、侍御史丁玄自典考之，但与隆连名奏事。
translation: 
At that time, Dong Xian, the servant, was being favored. The emperor sent Zhong Huangmen to take out the weapons from the arsenal. There were ten batches before and after, and they were sent to the homes of Dong Xian and the emperor's wet nurse Wang A.
Wu Jianglong wrote in his memorial: The weapons contained in the arsenal are common to the whole world and are designed for national armament. The funds required for their repair and manufacture are all paid by Bai Dasinong.
Even the emperor's carriages, horses and utensils could not be used for expenditures in Da Sinong's funds. The emperor's offerings and rewards were all paid from the Shaofu.
The reason is that fundamental economic reserves cannot be used for unimportant expenditures, and people's financial resources cannot be used for flashy expenditures, so as to distinguish between public and private affairs and show the right way.
In ancient times, princes and magistrates could independently control the power of conquest, and the emperor gave them axes and iron. The officials on the Han border were responsible for resisting the enemy, so they were given weapons from the arsenal. They all performed such duties and then accepted these weapons.
According to the meaning of "Spring and Autumn", the family of a senior official is not allowed to collect bells and armors. This is used to suppress the power of ministers and reduce personal power.
Nowadays, Dong Xian and others are either used to courting the emperor's jesters, or they are women of low status who only have personal favors, but you, the emperor, give them private things that are common to the world, and provide them with utensils that represent the majesty of the country for their private use.
The people's financial resources are distributed to jesters, weapons are placed in the homes of women of low status, and the system established is not in line with the national system, so as to condone and breed arrogance and overstep the bounds of etiquette. This cannot be used to show the world.
Confucius once said: How can the emperor's etiquette appear in the halls of three officials?
I ask that you return the weapons.
The emperor was very unhappy.
Soon after, Empress Dowager Fu sent a visitor to buy some official maids, and bought them at a very low price. She also bought eight official maids for Jinwu.
Don't tell the emperor that the price is too low and ask for a fair price.
The emperor then issued an order to the prime minister and the imperial censor, saying: If the etiquette of mutual humility prevails, then lawsuits like the one between Yu and Rui will naturally subside.
Wu Jianglong was ranked as the ninth minister, and he had no ability to correct the improper handling of the court. Instead, he petitioned Yongxin Palace to dispute the purchase and sale price, and announced the content of the petition. Everyone knew about it.
His actions and behavior were unreasonable, and the trend of fishing for fame and reputation began.
Because Wu Jianglong had previously made plans to stabilize the country, he was only demoted to the rank of captain of Peijun, and was later promoted to the prefect of Nanjun.
When Wang Mang was young, he wanted to make friends with Wu Jianglong, but Wu Jianglong didn't attach much importance to him.
After the death of Emperor Ai, Wang Mang came to power and asked the great situ Kong Guang to report Wu Jianglong's handling of the case of Empress Dowager Feng of Zhongshan when he was the shepherd of Jizhou. He wronged and framed a person who was not guilty and was not suitable to hold an official position in the central area of ​​​​the country.
In fact, it was the ministers who originally ordered Shi Li and Shi Dingxuan to investigate and interrogate the case in person. They only wrote a joint letter with Wu Jianglong to discuss the matter.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
史立时为中太仆，丁玄奏山太守，及尚书令赵昌谮郑崇者为河内太守，皆免官，徙合浦。
何并字子廉，祖父以吏二千石自平舆徙平陵。
并为郡吏，至大司空掾，事何武。
武高其志节，举能治剧，为长陵令，道不拾遗。
初，邛成太后外家王氏贵，而侍中王林卿通轻侠，倾京师。
后坐法免，宾客愈盛，归长陵上冢，因留饮连日。
并恐其犯法，自造门上谒，谓林卿曰： 冢间单外，君宜以时归。
林卿曰： 诺。
先是，林卿杀婢婿埋冢舍，并具知之，以非己时，又见其新免。故不发举，欲无令留界中而已，即且遣吏奉谒传送。
林卿素骄，惭于宾客，并度其为变，储兵马以待之。
林卿既去，北度泾桥，令骑奴还至寺门，拔刀剥其建鼓。
并自从吏兵追林卿。
行数十里，林卿迫窘，及令奴冠其冠被其襜褕自代，乘车从童骑，身变服从间径驰去。
会日暮追及，收缚冠奴，奴曰： 我非侍中，奴耳。
并自知已失林卿，乃曰： 王君困，自称奴，得脱死邪？
叱吏断头持还，县所剥鼓置都亭下，署曰； 故侍中王林卿坐杀人埋冢舍，使奴剥寺门鼓。
吏民惊骇。
林卿因亡命，众庶讠雚哗，以为实死。
成帝太后以邛成太后爱林卿故，闻之涕泣，为言哀帝。
哀帝问状而善之，迁并陇西太守。
徙颍川太守，代陵阳严诩。
诩本以孝行为官，谓掾史为师友，有过辄闭阁自责，终不大言。
郡中乱，王莽遣使征诩，官属数百人为设祖道，诩据地哭。
掾史曰： 明府吉征，不宜若此。
诩曰： 吾哀颍川士，身岂有忧哉！我以柔弱征，必选刚猛代。
代到，将有僵仆者，故相吊耳。
诩至，拜为美俗使者。
是时，颍川钟元为尚书令，领廷尉，用事有权。
弟威为郡掾，臧千金。
并为太守，过辞钟廷尉，廷尉免冠为弟请一等之罪，愿蚤就髡钳。
并曰： 罪在弟身与君律，不在于太守。
元惧，驰遣人呼弟。
阳翟轻侠赵季、李款多畜宾客，以气力渔食闾里，至奸人妇女，持吏长短，从横郡中，闻并且至，皆亡去。
并下车求勇猛晓文法吏且十人，使文吏治三人狱，武吏往捕之，各有所部。
敕曰： 三人非负太守，乃负王法，不得不治。
钟威所犯多在赦前，驱使入函谷关，勿令污民间；不入关，乃收之。
赵、李桀恶，虽远去，当得其头，以谢百姓。
钟威负其兄，止雒阳，吏格杀之。
亦得赵、李它郡，持头还，并皆悬头及其具狱于市。
郡中清静，表善好士，见纪颍川，名次黄霸。
性清廉，妻子不至官舍。
数年，卒。
疾病，召丞掾作先令书，曰： 告子恢，吾生素餐日久，死虽当得法赙，勿受。
葬为小椁，亶容下棺。
translation: 
At this time, Shi Li was the servant of Zhongtai, Ding Xuan was the governor of Taishan, and Zhao Chang, the minister, who had framed Zheng Chong, was the governor of Hanoi. They were all removed from the palace and exiled to Hepu.
He Bing's courtesy name was Zilian. His grandfather moved from Pingyu to Pingling as an official with a rank of 2,000 stone.
He Bing served as a county official and became a ministerial official, serving He Wu.
He Wu believed that he had noble aspirations and moral integrity, and praised him for his ability to handle heavy government affairs, so He Bing served as the magistrate of Changling County. His political performance was so good that he was not dismissed.
Once upon a time, the Wang family of Empress Dowager Qiongcheng's maternal grandfather had a prominent position. Wang Linqing, the servant in charge, exchanged views with the Jianghu knights, and they were powerful in the capital.
Later, he was dismissed from his official position for breaking the law, and there were more and more guests. He returned to Changling to sweep the tomb, and drank with the guests for many days.
He Bing was afraid that he would break the law, so he went to see Lin Qing personally and said to Lin Qing: "The tomb is outside, you should go home in time."
Lin Qing said: Okay.
Before this, Lin Qing had killed the husband of a maidservant and buried him in a tomb. He Bing knew all about this, but he thought that the incident did not happen when he was in office, and saw that he had recently been removed from his official position, so he did not want to expose him, but just wanted him not to stay in his territory, so he sent his subordinates with business cards to send him away.
Lin Qing was always proud and did not want to embarrass himself in front of the guests, so he expected that he would cause trouble, so he arranged troops to deal with him.
After Lin Qing left, he passed the Jinghe Bridge north and asked a servant on horseback to return to the county government office, where he slashed the drum hanging on the pillar of the county government office with a knife.
He Jing personally led the officials and soldiers to chase Lin Qing.
After walking for dozens of miles, Lin Qing was desperate, so he asked his servant to put on his hat and short coat instead. He got into the car and asked the servant on horseback to follow him. He changed his clothes and ran forward from the road.
Just as the sun was going down, He Jing caught up with him and tied up the servant wearing Lin Qing's hat. The man said, "I am not a servant, just his servant."
He Bing knew that Lin Qing had escaped, so he said: The king was forced to have nowhere to hide, and he claimed to be a servant. Do you want to escape the death penalty?
So he ordered his men to cut off his head and bring it back, hang it on a broken drum, and put it under the pavilion of the city. He wrote: The former servant Wang Linqing committed murder. He buried the murdered man in the house guarding the tomb, and asked his servants to chop up the drum in front of the government office.
Officials and people were shocked and frightened.
Lin Qing then ran for his life, and people started talking, thinking that he was really dead.
Because Empress Dowager Qiong Cheng loved Lin Qing, Emperor Cheng shed tears when she heard about this incident, and told Emperor Ai about it.
Emperor Ai inquired about the situation and thought that the matter was done well, so he promoted him to be the governor of Longxi.
Later, He Bing was transferred to Yingchuan Prefecture, succeeding Yan Xiang from Lingyang.
Yan Xiang originally became an official based on his filial piety. He regarded his subordinates as teachers and friends. When he made mistakes, he would blame himself behind closed doors and never spoke much.
There was a riot in the county. Wang Mang sent people to recruit Yan Xiang. Several hundred officials gathered to prepare a farewell banquet for him. Yan Xiang fell on the ground and cried.
The subordinates said: It is a good thing that you were called up today. It should not be like this.
Yan Xiang said: I am a scholar who pities Yingchuan. I have nothing to worry about: I was recruited because of my weakness, and the court will inevitably choose a strong person to replace me.
Once the replacement arrives, there will be people who are bedridden, so it will be sad.
After Yan Xiang arrived, he was appointed as the envoy of beauty and customs.
At this time, Zhong Yuan, a native of Yingchuan, served as Shangshu Ling and concurrently as Ting Wei, handling affairs with authority and making changes.
His younger brother Zhong Wei was a subordinate of Yingchuan County and illegally hid a large amount of gold.
He Bing served as the prefect and told Zhong Tingwei about the incident when he saw him. Zhong Tingwei took off his hat and asked for a reduced death penalty for his brother, hoping to accept the punishment of crotch clamps as soon as possible.
He Bing said: The fault lies with your brother for violating the king's law, not with the prefect.
Zhong Yuan was afraid and sent Pegasus to greet his brother.
Yangdi's rangers Zhao Ji and Li Kuan supported many guests, used their strength to rob the neighbors, and even raped other people's wives and daughters. They took advantage of the officials' shortcomings and ran rampant in the county. When they heard that General He was coming, they all fled.
As soon as He Bing took office, he sought out nearly ten officials who were brave and knowledgeable about the law. He sent civilian officials to review the cases of the three people and military attachés to arrest them. Each had their own arrangements.
The order said: These three people did not fail the prefect, but violated the king's law, so they had to be punished.
Zhong Wei had committed many crimes before the amnesty, so he was driven into Hangu Pass to prevent him from harming the people. If he did not enter the pass, he would be arrested.
Zhao and Li are the chief culprits. Although they have escaped far away, they should be killed and apologize to the people.
Zhong Wei relied on his elder brother to stay in Luoyang, and the officials who pursued him killed him.
They also captured Tong and Li in other counties and brought their heads back. He then hung their heads and all the charges against them in the downtown area.
There was a peaceful and quiet situation in the county. He commended the good deeds and respected the scholars. He was well-known in Yingchuan, and his reputation was second only to Huang Ba.
How can he be honest and honest, and his wife and children are not in the government office.
Died a few years later.
When he was seriously ill, he asked his assistant to write a suicide note, saying: Tell my son Hui that I have spent a long time eating for nothing in my life. Although I will receive the legal condolence gift after my death, I do not want to receive it.
Use a small coffin for burial, as long as it can accommodate the coffin.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
恢如父言。
王莽擢恢为关都尉。
建武中以并孙为郎。
赞曰：盖宽饶为司臣，正色立于朝，虽《诗》所谓 国之司直 无以加也。
若采王生之言以终其身，斯近古之贤臣矣。
诸葛、刘、郑虽云狂瞽，有异志焉。
孔子曰： 吾未见刚者。
以数子之名迹，然毌将污于冀州，孙宝桡于定陵，况俗人乎！
何并之节，亚尹翁归云。
translation: 
Bao Zheng did as his father said.
Yuling selected Hengzheng as Guan Duwei.
During the Jianda period, Tan Bing's grandson was appointed as Lang Guan.
Praise said: As a procurator, Gai Kuorao stood above the court with integrity. Even the "Director of the State" mentioned in the "Book of Songs" was nothing more than this.
If he can adopt Wang Sheng's words until he is old, he will be close to the wise ministers of ancient times.
Although Zhuge, Liu, and Zheng were somewhat arrogant and ignorant, they had unique ambitions.
Confucius said: I have never seen an upright person.
With the reputation and deeds of these people, there are still things like Wu Jianglong being stained in Jizhou and Sun Bao succumbing to Dingling Hou, let alone ordinary people?
He Bing's integrity is second only to Yin Wenggui.


