Chunk 0: 
original: 
黄帝者，少典之子，姓公孙，名曰轩辕。
生而神灵，弱而能言，幼而徇齐，长而敦敏，成而聪明。
轩辕之时，神农氏世衰。诸侯相侵伐，暴虐百姓，而神农氏弗能征。
于是轩辕乃习用干戈，以征不享，诸侯咸来宾从。
而蚩尤最为暴，莫能伐。
炎帝欲侵陵诸侯，诸侯咸归轩辕。
轩辕乃修德振兵，治五气，蓺五种，抚万民，度四方，教熊罴貔貅貙虎，以与炎帝战于阪泉之野。三战，然后得其志。
蚩尤作乱，不用帝命。
于是黄帝乃征师诸侯，与蚩尤战于涿鹿之野，遂禽杀蚩尤。
而诸侯咸尊轩辕为天子，代神农氏，是为黄帝。
天下有不顺者，黄帝从而征之，平者去之，披山通道，未尝宁居。
东至于海，登丸山，及岱宗。
西至于空桐，登鸡头。
南至于江，登熊、湘。
北逐荤粥，合符釜山，而邑于涿鹿之阿。
迁徙往来无常处，以师兵为营卫。
官名皆以云命，为云师。
置左右大监，监于万国。
万国和，而鬼神山川封禅与为多焉。
获宝鼎，迎日推策。举风后、力牧、常先、大鸿以治民。
顺天地之纪，幽明之占，死生之说，存亡之难。时播百谷草木，淳化鸟兽虫蛾，旁罗日月星辰水波土石金玉，劳勤心力耳目，节用水火材物。
有土德之瑞，故号黄帝。
黄帝二十五子，其得姓者十四人。
黄帝居轩辕之丘，而娶于西陵之女，是为嫘祖。
嫘祖为黄帝正妃，生二子，其后皆有天下：其一曰玄嚣，是为青阳，青阳降居江水；其二曰昌意，降居若水。
昌意娶蜀山氏女，曰昌仆，生高阳，高阳有圣德焉。
黄帝崩，葬桥山。其孙昌意之子高阳立，是为帝颛顼也。
帝颛顼高阳者，黄帝之孙而昌意之子也。
translation: 
Huangdi is a descendant of the Shaodian tribe, and his surname is Gongsun and Xuanyuan.
He was born with great spirituality. He was good at speaking at a very young age. He was clever and alert as a child. He was honest and agile when he grew up. He was wise and judicious as an adult.
When Xuanyuan was in power, the descendants of the Shennong clan had declined. The princes fought against each other and abused the people with violence, but the Shennong clan had no power to conquer them.
So Xuanyuan practiced military training and went to conquer those princes who did not come to pay tribute. Only then did all the princes come to submit.
Chiyou was the most violent among the princes, and no one could conquer him.
Emperor Yan wanted to attack and oppress the princes, and all the princes came to Xuanyuan.
So Xuanyuan practiced virtue, rectified his army, studied the changes in the four seasons, planted grains, appeased the people, measured the land in all directions, trained bears, 罴, 貔, 貅, 貲, tigers and other beasts, and fought with Emperor Yan in the countryside of Banquan. After several battles, he conquered Emperor Yan and won as he wished.
Chiyou launched a rebellion and refused to obey Huangdi's orders.
So Huang Di mobilized the troops of the princes and fought with Chi You in the suburbs of Zhuolu, and finally captured and killed him.
In this way, the princes all respected Xuanyuan as the emperor, replacing Shennong. This was the Yellow Emperor.
When there were disobedient people in the world, the Yellow Emperor went to conquer them. After pacifying a place, he left, splitting mountains and clearing roads along the way, and never lived in peace anywhere.
Huang Di went east to the East China Sea and climbed Mount Maru and Mount Tai.
Went west to Kongtong and climbed to Jitou Mountain.
Went south to the Yangtze River and climbed Xiong Mountain and Xiang Mountain.
He expelled the Hunzhou tribe to the north, came to Busan, signed the talisman contract with the princes, and built a city at the foot of Zhulu Mountain.
The Yellow Emperor moved around and had no fixed residence. Wherever he led his troops, he set up military camps for self-defense.
All the official positions granted by the Yellow Emperor were named after Yun, and the army was called Yunshi.
He set up left and right supervisors to supervise the various vassal states.
At this time, all countries were in peace, so since ancient times, the number of people offering sacrifices to ghosts and gods in mountains and rivers was the highest during the Yellow Emperor's time.
The Yellow Emperor received the tripod given by God, so he observed the movement of the sun, used yarrow for divination to calculate the calendar, and predicted the solar terms and dates. He appointed Fenghou, Limu, Changxian, Dahong and others to govern the people.
The Yellow Emperor complied with the laws of the four seasons of heaven and earth, speculated on the changes of yin and yang, explained the principles of life and death, and discussed the causes of existence and death. He sown grains and grasses according to the seasons, domesticated birds, beasts, and silkworms, measured the sun, moon and stars to determine the calendar, collected earth, stone, gold, and jade for civilian use.
When he was the emperor, he had the auspicious sign of the attribute of earth. The earth was yellow in color, so he was called the Yellow Emperor.
Huangdi had twenty-five sons, fourteen of whom established their own surnames.
The Yellow Emperor lived in Xuanyuan Mountain and married a daughter of the Xiling Kingdom, who was Leizu.
Leizu was the Yellow Emperor's concubine and had two sons. Their descendants all ruled the world: one was named Xuanxiao, also known as Qingyang. Qingyang was named a prince and settled in Jiangshui; the other was named Changyi, who was also named a prince and settled in Ruoshui.
Changyi married a daughter of the Shushan clan, named Changpu, and gave birth to Gao Yang, who had the character of a saint.
After the death of Huangdi, he was buried in Qiaoshan. His grandson, Changyi's son Gaoyang, ascended the throne and became Emperor Zhuanxu.
Emperor Zhuanxu Gaoyang was the grandson of Huangdi and the son of Changyi.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
静渊以有谋，疏通而知事；养材以任地，载时以象天，依鬼神以制义，治气以教化，絜诚以祭祀。
北至于幽陵，南至于交趾，西至于流沙，东至于蟠木。
动静之物，大小之神，日月所照，莫不砥属。
帝颛顼生子曰穷蝉。
颛顼崩，而玄嚣之孙高辛立，是为帝喾。
帝喾高辛者，黄帝之曾孙也。
高辛父曰蟜极，蟜极父曰玄嚣，玄嚣父曰黄帝。
自玄嚣与蟜极皆不得在位，至高辛即帝位。
高辛于颛顼为族子。
高辛生而神灵，自言其名。
普施利物，不于其身。
聪以知远，明以察微。
顺天之义，知民之急。
仁而威，惠而信，修身而天下服。
取地之财而节用之，抚教万民而利诲之，历日月而迎送之，明鬼神而敬事之。
其色郁郁，其德嶷嶷。
其动也时，其服也士。
帝喾溉执中而遍天下，日月所照，风雨所至，莫不从服。
帝喾娶陈锋氏女，生放勋。
娶娵訾氏女，生挚。
帝喾崩，而挚代立。
帝挚立，不善，而弟放勋立，是为帝尧。帝尧者，放勋。
其仁如天，其知如神。
就之如日，望之如云。
富而不骄，贵而不舒。
黄收纯衣，彤车乘白马。
能明驯德，以亲九族。
九族既睦，便章百姓。
百姓昭明，合和万国。
乃命羲、和，敬顺昊天，数法日月星辰，敬授民时。
分命羲仲，居郁夷，曰旸谷。敬道日出，便程东作。
translation: 
He is calm, steady, resourceful, and knowledgeable. He raised various crops and livestock to make full use of the soil, calculated the four seasons to conform to nature, followed the ghosts and gods to formulate etiquette and justice, straightened out the energy of the four seasons and the five elements to educate the people, and purified the body and mind to sacrifice to the ghosts and gods.
He went north to Youling, south to Jiaozhi, west to Liusha, and east to Panmu.
All kinds of animals and plants, big gods and small gods, wherever the sun and moon shine, are all pacified, and there is no one who does not submit.
The son born to Emperor Zhuanxu was called Qiongchan.
After Zhuan Xu's death, Xuan Xiao's grandson Gao Xin came to the throne and became Emperor Ku.
Emperor Ku Gaoxin was the great-grandson of the Yellow Emperor.
Gao Xin's father was called Xiuji, Xiuji's father was named Xuanxiao, and Xuanxiao's father was Huangdi.
Neither Xuan Xiao nor Xiu Ji ascended to the throne of God, and they did not ascend to the throne of God until Gaoxin.
Gao Xin was Zhuanxu's nephew.
Gao Xin was born with great aura and called out his name as soon as he was born.
He generally bestows favor on everyone but not himself.
He is smart and intelligent, can understand long-term situations, and can discern subtle things.
He complies with the will of God and understands the concerns of the people.
Be benevolent and dignified, be gentle and trustworthy, cultivate yourself, and the world will obey you.
He collects the products of the land and uses them frugally; he caresss and educates the people and teaches them all kinds of useful things; he calculates the movements of the sun and the moon to determine the solar terms of the year, and respectfully welcomes the coming and going of the sun and the moon; he knows the ghosts and gods clearly and serves them carefully.
He has a dignified appearance and high moral character.
His actions are in keeping with the times and his actions are like those of a scholar.
The emperor governs the people as impartially as rainwater irrigates farmland, all over the world, wherever the sun and moon shine, wherever the wind and rain go, no one disobeys and submits.
Emperor Ku married Chen Feng's daughter and gave birth to Fangxun.
Marry the daughter of the Qozi clan and give birth to Zhi.
After Emperor Ku's death, Zhi took over the throne.
After Emperor Zhi ascended the throne, he did not achieve any political achievements, so his younger brother Fangxun ascended the throne. This is Emperor Yao. Emperor Yao was a man of honor.
He is as kind as heaven and as wise as God.
Being close to him warms the heart like the sun; looking up to him is like clouds covering the earth.
He is rich but not proud, noble but not indulgent.
He wears a yellow hat, black clothes, a scarlet chariot and a white horse.
He can respect virtuous people and make nine generations of the same clan love each other.
Since the people of the same clan were at peace, they went to inspect the officials.
All officials have outstanding achievements, and all princes and states can live in harmony.
Emperor Yao ordered the Xi family and the He family to follow the will of God, draw up a calendar based on the appearance and appearance of the sun and the moon, and the position of the stars, and carefully teach the people the production seasons.
In addition, he ordered Xizhong, who lived in Yuyi, a place called Yanggu, to greet the sunrise respectfully and arrange the spring farming in different steps.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
日中，星鸟，以殷中春。
其民析，鸟兽字微。
申命羲叔，居南交。
便程南讹，敬致。日永，星火，以正中夏。
其民因，鸟兽希革。
申命和仲，居西土，曰昧谷。敬道日入，便程西成。
夜中，星虚，以正中秋。
其民夷易，鸟兽毛毨。
申命和叔；居北方，曰幽都。
便在伏物。日短，星昴，以正中冬。
其民燠，鸟兽氄毛。
岁三百六十六日，以闰月正四时。
信饬百官，众功皆兴。
尧曰： 谁可顺此事？
放齐曰： 嗣子丹朱开明。
尧曰： 吁！
顽凶，不用。
尧又曰： 谁可者？
驩兜曰： 共工旁聚布功，可用。
尧曰： 共工善言，其用僻，似恭漫天，不可。
尧又曰： 嗟，四岳，汤汤洪水滔天，浩浩怀山襄陵，下民其忧，有能使治者？
皆曰鲧可。
尧曰： 鲧负命毁族，不可。
岳曰： 异哉，试不可用而已。
尧于是听岳用鲧。
九岁，功用不成。尧曰： 嗟！
四岳：朕在位七十载，汝能庸命，践朕位？
岳应曰： 鄙德忝帝位。
尧曰： 悉举贵戚及疏远隐匿者。
众皆言于尧曰： 有矜在民间，曰虞舜。
尧曰： 然，朕闻之。
其何如？ 岳曰： 盲者子。
translation: 
On the vernal equinox, the day is as long as the night. The stars in Suzaku's seven constellations appear in the south at dusk. This is used to determine the time of mid-spring.
At this time, people dispersed to work, and birds and animals gave birth and mated.
He also ordered Uncle Xi, who lived in Nanjiao, to arrange the summer farm work step by step and do it carefully.
On the summer solstice, the day is the longest, and the heart constellation among the seven constellations of Canglong appears in the south when it is first twilight. Accordingly, the time of midsummer is determined.
At this time, the people are in high places, and the feathers of birds and animals are sparse.
He also ordered He Zhong, who lived in the Western Land, that place was called Shibuya, to respectfully send the sun down and arrange the autumn harvest in a step-by-step manner.
On the autumnal equinox, the night is as long as the day. The virtual constellation among the seven constellations of Xuanwu appears in the due south at the beginning of dusk. Based on this, the time of mid-autumn is determined.
At this time, people moved to the plains, and birds and animals regenerated new hair.
He also ordered Uncle He, who lives in the north, that place is called Youdu, to carefully arrange the winter collection.
On the winter solstice, the day is the shortest, and Pleiades, one of the seven constellations of the White Tiger, appears in the due south when it is first twilight, and the time of midwinter is determined based on this.
At this time, people go into their houses to keep warm, and birds and animals are covered with fine hair.
There are 366 days in a year, and leap moons are used to correct the four seasons of spring, summer, autumn and winter.
Emperor Yao sincerely warned all officials to keep their duties, and all kinds of things were done.
Yao said: Who can inherit my career?
Fang Qi said: Your son Danzhu is a master of affairs.
Yao said: Hum!
Danzhu, he is stupid, vicious and cannot be used.
Yao asked again: Then who else can?
Huandou said: Gonggong has gathered people extensively and made achievements, which can be used.
Yao said: Gonggong likes to talk nice words, but his intentions are not right. When he speaks, he seems to be very respectful, but his heart is absent and cannot be used.
Yao asked again: Alas, the Four Mountains, now the floods are surging and mighty, surrounding the mountains and covering the hills. The people are extremely miserable. Who can be sent to control them?
Everyone said Gun could do it.
Yao said: Gun violated the destiny of heaven and destroyed his own people, so he cannot be used.
The four mountains all said: Just use him. If it doesn't work, then remove him.
Yao therefore followed Siyue's advice and appointed Gun.
Gun controlled the flood for nine years without achieving any results. Yao said: Alas!
Dear leaders, I have been on the throne for seventy years. Which of you can follow the destiny and succeed me as emperor?
Siyue replied: Our virtues are very despicable and we are not worthy of being on the throne of God.
Yao said: "Then let's recommend him from among all the ministers near and far with the same surname and different surnames, as well as those who live in seclusion.
Everyone said to Yao: There was a single man living among the people, named Yu Shun.
Yao said: Yes, I have heard of him. What is he like?
Siyue replied; He is the son of a blind man.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
父顽，母嚚，弟傲，能和以孝，烝烝治，不至奸。
尧曰： 吾其试哉。
于是尧妻之二女，观其德于二女。
舜饬下二女于妫汭，如妇礼。
尧善之，乃使舜慎和五典，五典能从。
乃遍入百官，百官时序。
宾于四门，四门穆穆，诸侯远方宾客皆敬。
尧使舜入山林川泽，暴风雷雨，舜行不迷。
尧以为圣，召舜曰： 女谋事至而言可绩，三年矣。
女登帝位。
舜让于德不怿。
正月上日，舜受终于文祖。
文祖者，尧大祖也。
于是帝尧老，命舜摄行天子之政，以观天命。
舜乃在璿玑玉衡，以齐七政。遂类于上帝，禋于六宗，望于山川，辩于群神。
揖五瑞，择吉月日，见四岳诸牧，班瑞。
岁二月，东巡狩，至于岱宗，祡，望秩于山川。
遂见东方君长，合时月正日，同律度量衡，修五礼五玉三帛二生一死为挚，如五器，卒乃复。
五月，南巡狩；八月，西巡狩；十一月，北巡狩：皆如初。
归，至于祖祢庙，用特牛礼。
五岁一巡狩，群后四朝。
遍告以言，明试以功，车服以庸。
肇十有二州，决川。
translation: 
His father was fierce and stubborn, his mother was stupid and stubborn, and his brother was arrogant, but Shun was able to live in harmony with them, practice filial piety, and manage the family business with virtue to prevent them from going evil.
Yao said: Then I will give him a try.
So Yao married his two daughters to him and observed his virtues from his two daughters.
Shun asked them to lower their noble hearts and live in their homes by the Gui River, observing the ways of being wives.
Yao thought this was a good thing, so he asked Shun to take the post of Situ. He carefully followed the five ethics and morals: fatherly righteousness, motherly kindness, brother-friendship, brotherly respect, and son's filial piety. The people followed them and never violated them.
Yao also asked him to participate in the affairs of the officials, and the affairs of the officials became orderly.
Let him receive guests at the four gates of the Mingtang. The four gates are in harmony, and the guests from the princes and guests from far away are respectful.
Yao then sent Shun into the mountains, jungles, rivers and swamps, and encountered a storm and thunderstorm, but Shun did not get lost or make any mistakes.
Yao even thought that he was very smart and virtuous, so he called him over and said: "In the past three years, you have done things carefully and can do what you say."
Now you can ascend to the throne of emperor.
Shun Tui said that his virtue was not enough and he was unwilling to accept the throne.
On the first day of the first lunar month, Shun accepted Yao's abdication in Wenzu Temple.
Wenzu was also the Taizu of Yao.
At this time, Yao was already old and asked Shun to act as the emperor's political agent, so as to observe whether Shun was in line with God's will as emperor.
Shun then used instruments for observing astronomical phenomena to locate the sun, the moon, and the five stars of metal, wood, water, fire, and earth. He then held temporary ceremonies to offer sacrifices to heaven. He used the ritual of burning sacrifices on fire to worship the four seasons of heaven and earth.
He collected five types of jade talisman letters from Huan Gui, Xin Gui, Gong Gui, Gu Bi, and Pu Bi held by the fifth-ranking marquis, Bozi, the Duke and the Prince. He chose a good month and an auspicious day, summoned the four mountains and the prefects of each state, and issued them to them.
In February, Shun went to the East for inspection. When he arrived at Mount Tai, he used the ceremony of burning firewood to worship Dongyue, and used the ceremony of distant sacrifice to worship the famous mountains and rivers in various places.
Then, he summoned the princes from the East to coordinate and correct the four seasons, the size of the moon, and the sun. He unified the rhythm and the standards of length, capacity, and weight. He revised the five etiquettes of good luck, bad luck, guest, military, and honor. He stipulated that the princes should use five kinds of Guibi and three kinds of colored silk.
In May, he went on a tour to the south; in August, he went to the west; in November, he went to the north: all the same as when he first went to the east.
After returning, he went to the ancestral temple and father's temple and used a cow as a sacrifice.
From now on, inspections will be held every five years. During the four years, all princes and kings will come to the capital on time to pay homage.
Shun generally explained the principles of governing the country to the princes, clearly inspected them according to their achievements, and gave chariots and horses clothes according to their merits.
Shun began to divide the world into twelve states and dredge the rivers.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
象以典刑，流宥五刑，鞭作官刑，扑作教刑，金作赎刑。
眚灾过，赦；怙终贼，刑。
钦哉，钦哉，惟刑之静哉！
驩兜进言共工，尧曰不可而试之工师，共工果淫辟。
四岳举鲧治鸿水，尧以为不可，岳彊请试之，试之而无功，故百姓不便。
三苗在江淮、荆州数为乱。
于是舜归而言于帝，请流共工于幽陵，以变北狄；放驩兜于崇山，以变南蛮；迁三苗于三危，以变西戎；殛鲧于羽山，以变东夷：四罪而天下咸服。
尧立七十年得舜，二十年而老，令舜摄行天子之政，荐之于天。
尧辟位凡二十八年而崩。
百姓悲哀，如丧父母。
三年，四方莫举乐，以思尧。
尧之子丹朱之不肖，不足授天下，于是乃权授舜。
授舜，则天下得其利而丹朱病；授丹朱，则天下病而丹朱得其利。
尧曰 终不以天下之病而利一人 ，而卒授舜以天下。
尧崩，三年之丧毕，舜让辟丹朱于南河之南。
诸侯朝觐者不之丹朱而之舜，狱讼者不之丹朱而之舜，讴歌者不讴歌丹朱而讴歌舜。
舜曰 天也 ，夫而后之中国践天子位焉，是为帝舜。虞舜者，名曰重华。
重华父曰瞽叟，瞽叟父曰桥牛，桥牛父曰句望，句望父曰敬康，敬康父曰穷蝉，穷蝉父曰帝颛顼，颛顼父曰昌意：以至舜七世矣。
自从穷蝉以至帝舜，皆微为庶人。
舜父瞽叟盲，而舜母死，瞽叟更娶妻而生象，象傲。
瞽叟爱后妻子，常欲杀舜，舜避逃；及有小过，则受罪。
translation: 
It stipulates that law enforcement shall be based on normal penalties, and the five penalties of tattooing, nose cutting, foot mutilation, castration, and beheading shall be reduced by the method of exile. Whips shall be used for punishment in government affairs, rulers shall be used for education in schools, and gold can be used as atonement for sins.
Those who make mistakes will be pardoned; those who persist in doing evil and persist in causing harm will be punished.
Be cautious, be cautious, and use punishments prudently!
Huandou once recommended Gonggong, but Yao said it would not work. However, Huandou still tried him as a craftsman. As expected, Gonggong indulged in evil ways.
Siyue once recommended Gun to control floods, but Yao said it was not possible, but Siyue insisted on giving it a try. The result was that it was ineffective, so all the officials thought it was inappropriate.
Sanmiao caused many rebellions in the Jiang and Huaihe River basins and Jingzhou area.
At this time, Shun returned from his inspection and reported to Emperor Yao, requesting that Gonggong be exiled to Youling in order to change the customs of Beidi; Huandou be exiled to Chongshan in order to change the customs of the Southern Barbarians; and Sanmiao be moved to Sanwei Mountain in order to change the customs of Xirong. Gun was killed in Yushan in order to change the customs of Dongyi: after punishing these four sinners, everyone in the world was satisfied.
In the seventy years of Yao's reign, he got Shun, and after another twenty years he resigned due to old age, leaving Shun to take charge of the emperor's government affairs and recommend it to heaven.
Yao died twenty-eight years after abdicating his throne.
The people mourned and mourned as if their biological parents had died.
Within three years, no one played music anywhere in the world to mourn Emperor Yao.
Yao knew that his son Danzhu was not worthy of being passed down to him, so he tentatively tried to give it to Shun.
If it were passed on to Shun, everyone in the world would benefit and only Danzhu would be disadvantaged; if it were passed on to Danzhu, everyone in the world would suffer and only Danzhu would benefit.
Yao said: After all, I cannot make everyone in the world suffer and only benefit one person, so I finally passed the world to Shun.
After Yao's death, after three years of mourning, Shun abdicated the throne to Danzhu and hid on the south bank of the Nanhe River.
The princes who came for pilgrimage did not go to Danzhu but came to Shun; those who filed lawsuits did not go to Danzhu but came to Shun; those who praised merit did not go to Danzhu but came to praise Shun.
Shun said, "This is God's will." Then he arrived in Kyoto and ascended to the throne of Emperor Shun. This was Emperor Shun. Yu Shun's name was Chonghua.
Chonghua's father was named Gusou, Gusou's father was called Qiaoniu, Qiaoniu's father was called Juwang, Juwang's father was called Jingkang, and Jingkang's father was called Qiongchan. Qiongchan's father was Emperor Zhuanxu, and Zhuanxu's father was Changyi: from Changyi to Shun it was seven generations.
From Qiongchan to Emperor Shun, the intervening generations had low status and were all commoners.
Shun's father, Gusou, was blind. After Shun's biological mother died, Gusou married another wife and gave birth to Xiang, who was unruly.
Gusou liked his second wife's son and often wanted to kill Shun, but Shun escaped. If he made a little mistake, he would be severely punished.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
舜事父及后母与弟，日以笃谨，匪有解。
舜，冀州之人也。
舜耕历山，渔雷泽，陶河滨，作什器于寿丘，就时于负夏。
舜父瞽叟顽，母嚚，弟象傲，皆欲杀舜。
舜顺适不失子道，兄弟孝慈。
欲杀，不可得；即求，尝在侧。
舜年二十以孝闻。
三十而帝尧问可用者，四岳咸荐虞舜，曰可。
于是尧乃以二女妻舜以观其内，使九男与处以观其外。
舜居妫汭，内行弥谨。
尧二女不敢以贵骄事舜亲戚，甚有妇道。
尧九男皆益笃。
舜耕历山，历山之人皆让畔；渔雷泽，雷泽上人皆让居；陶河滨，河滨器皆不苦窳。
一年而所居成聚，二年成邑，三年成都。
尧乃赐舜絺衣，与琴，为筑仓廪，予牛羊。
瞽叟尚复欲杀之，使舜上涂廪，瞽叟从下纵火焚廪。
舜乃以两笠自扞而下，去，得不死。
后瞽叟又使舜穿井，舜穿井为匿空旁出。
舜既入深，瞽叟与象共下土实井，舜从匿空出，去。
瞽叟、象喜，以舜为已死。
象曰 本谋者象。
象与其父母分，于是曰： 舜妻尧二女，与琴，象取之。
牛羊仓廪予父母。
象乃止舜宫居，鼓其琴。
舜往见之。象鄂不怿，曰： 我思舜正郁陶！
舜曰： 然，尔其庶矣！ 舜复事瞽叟爱弟弥谨。
于是尧乃试舜五典百官，皆治。
昔高阳氏有才子八人，世得其利，谓之 八恺 。
高辛氏有才子八人，世谓之 八元 。
此十六族者，世济其美，不陨其名。
translation: 
Shun served his father, stepmother and stepmother's brother respectfully, becoming more respectful every day without slacking off at all.
Shun was from Jizhou.
Shun plowed fields in Lishan, fished in Leize, made pottery on the bank of the Yellow River, made various household utensils in Shouqiu, and did business in Fuxia.
Shun's father Gusou was fierce and stubborn, his mother was arrogant, and his brother Xiang was unruly. They all wanted to kill Shun.
Shun, however, behaved respectfully and never violated the principles of being a son, loving his brothers and being filial to his parents.
They wanted to kill him, but they never succeeded; and when they needed him for something, he was always by their side.
When Shun was twenty years old, he became famous for his filial piety.
When he was thirty years old, Emperor Yao asked who could govern the world. All the four mountains recommended Yu Shun, saying that this man could do it.
So Yao married his two daughters to Shun to observe his conduct at home, and let his nine sons live with him to observe his behavior outside.
Shun lived on the bank of Guishui River, and he was more cautious in doing things at home.
Yao's two daughters did not dare to treat Shun's relatives arrogantly because of their noble birth, and they were very particular about the way they behaved as wives.
Yao's nine sons were also more sincere and loyal.
When Shun farmed in Lishan, the people of Lishan would give each other the boundaries; when he fished in Leize, the people of Leize would give way to places convenient for fishing; when he made pottery on the bank of the Yellow River, there would be no defective products at all.
In one year, the place where he lived became a village, in two years it became a small town, and in three years it became a metropolis.
Seeing this, Yao gave Shun a set of fine grass cloth clothes, a harp, built him a storehouse, and gave him cattle and sheep.
Gusou still wanted to kill him, so he asked Shun to climb up to repair the barn with soil, but Gusou set it on fire from below.
Shun protected himself with two bamboo hats, jumped down as if he had wings, and escaped, thus surviving.
Later, Gusou asked Shun to dig a well. When Shun dug the well, he dug a secret passage in the side wall leading to the outside.
When Shun dug deep, Gusou and Xiang poured earth down to fill the well. Shun went out through a secret passage next to it and escaped again.
Gusou and Xiang were very happy, thinking that Shun was dead.
Xiang said: I was the one who originally came up with this idea.
Xiang divided Shun's property with his parents, saying: "I will take both the two daughters of Yao whom Shun married, and the harp that Yao gave him."
The cattle, sheep and barns all belong to the parents.
Xiang then lived in Shun's house and played Shun's harp.
Shun returned to his residence and saw Xiang. Xiang was shocked, and then he put on a gloomy look and said, "I am missing you. It makes me so depressed!" Shun said: Yes, I hope you are like this!
Shun still treated his parents and loved his brothers as before, and he was even more respectful.
In this way, Yao tried to use Shun to straighten out the five ethics and morals and participate in the affairs of hundreds of officials, and he did a good job.
In the past, the Gaoyang family had eight talented and virtuous descendants. The world benefited from them and called them Bakai, which means eight kind people.
The Gaoxin family has eight talented and virtuous descendants, who are called "Bayuan" by the world, which means eight kind-hearted people.
The people of these sixteen families have maintained the virtues of their ancestors from generation to generation and have not lost the reputation of their ancestors.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
至于尧，尧未能举。
舜举八恺，使主后土，以揆百事，莫不时序。
举八元，使布五教于四方，父义，母慈，兄友，弟恭，子孝，内平外成。
昔帝鸿氏有不才子，掩义隐贼，好行凶慝，天下谓之浑沌。
少暤氏有不才子，毁信恶忠，崇饰恶言，天下谓之穷奇。
颛顼氏有不才子，不可教训，不知话言，天下谓之檮杌。
此三族世忧之。
至于尧，尧未能去。
缙云氏有不才子，贪于饮食，冒于货贿，天下谓之饕餮。
天下恶之，比之三凶。
舜宾于四门，乃流四凶族，迁于四裔，以御螭魅，于是四门辟，言毋凶人也。
舜入于大麓，烈风雷雨不迷，尧乃知舜之足授天下。
尧老，使舜摄行天子政，巡狩。
舜得举用事二十年，而尧使摄政。
摄政八年而尧崩。
三年丧毕，让丹朱，天下归舜。
而禹、皋陶、契、后稷、伯夷、夔、龙、倕、益、彭祖自尧时而皆举用，未有分职。
于是舜乃至于文祖，谋于四岳，辟四门，明通四方耳目，命十二牧论帝德，行厚德，远佞人，则蛮夷率服。
舜谓四岳曰： 有能奋庸美尧之事者，使居官相事？
皆曰： 伯禹为司空，可美帝功。 舜曰： 嗟，然！
禹，汝平水土，维是勉哉。
禹拜稽首，让于稷、契与皋陶。
舜曰： 然，往矣。
舜曰： 弃，黎民始饥，汝后稷播时百谷。
舜曰： 契，百姓不亲，五品不驯，汝为司徒，而敬敷五教，在宽。
舜曰： 皋陶，蛮夷猾夏，寇贼奸轨，汝作士，五刑有服，五服三就；五流有度，五度三居：维明能信。 舜曰： 谁能驯予工？
translation: 
When Yao came, he did not use them.
Shun Ju appointed the descendants of the Eight Kais to be in charge of agriculture and various government affairs, and they were all managed in an orderly manner.
Shun also promoted the descendants of Ba Yuan and asked them to spread the five kinds of education in all directions, making the father moral, the mother loving, the elder brother friendly, the younger brother respectful, the son filial, the family harmonious, and the neighborhood sincere.
Once upon a time, Emperor Hong's family had an unworthy descendant who showed no kindness and righteousness, harbored thieves, and was fond of doing evil. People in the world called him Chaos.
It means that he is barbaric and uncivilized. The Shaohao family also had a descendant who was unworthy, who broke faith, hated loyalty, and liked evil words. People all over the world called him Qiongqi, which means that he was extremely weird.
Zhuanxu had an underachieving descendant who could not be trained and would not listen to good words. People all over the world called him Tao Zhu, which means that he was fierce and stubborn.
The people of these three families have been worrying for generations.
When Yao came, he did not get rid of them.
The Jinyun family had an underachieving descendant who was greedy for food and wealth. People in the world called him Taotie, which means he was greedy.
People in the world hate him and call him the four evils together with the three evils mentioned above.
When Shun received guests from all over the four gates, he exiled these four evil families and drove them to remote areas to resist the evil spirits. From then on, the four gates were opened, and everyone said that there were no evil people.
When Shun entered the mountains and forests, he encountered a storm and thunderstorm without getting lost. Yao then realized that Shun's talent could teach him the world.
When Yao got old, he asked Shun to take charge of the emperor's affairs and to inspect the surrounding areas.
Shun was appointed to be in charge of government affairs for twenty years, and Yao made him act as the emperor's government official.
After eight years of acting on behalf of the government, Yao passed away.
After three years of mourning, Shun gave way to Danzhu, but everyone in the world came to submit to Shun.
Yu, Gaotao, Qi, Houji, Boyi, Kui, Long, Chui, Yi, and Pengzu had all been promoted since the time of Yao, but they had never held any positions.
So Shun went to the Wenzu Temple and negotiated with the Four Mountains to open the four gates so that the four dialects could be unobstructed. He asked the twelve state pastors to comment on the emperor's virtues, extend kindness and stay away from villains, and the tribes in remote areas would submit.
Shun said to Si Yue: Who can work hard to establish meritorious service and prosper the cause of Emperor Yao, and grant him an official position to assist me in my affairs?
The four mountains all said: Let Boyu serve as Sikong, which can promote the career of Emperor Yao. Shun said: Well, good!
Yu, you are responsible for regulating water and soil, and you must work hard to do it well!
Yu knelt down and kowtowed in thanks, and humbly gave way to Ji, Qi and Gaotao.
Shun said: Okay, let's go!
Shun said: "Hey, the people are starving. You are in charge of agriculture. Go and teach them to sow a hundred grains."
Shun also said: Gaotao, barbarians are invading the Central Plains, robbing and killing, and causing chaos within and outside our borders. As a judicial officer, you must use the five punishments appropriately and execute them in three places according to the severity of the crime.
If the five punishments are reduced to exile, the exile is divided into five types according to the severity of the crime, and the place of exile is divided into three levels: only justice and strictness can convince people. Shun asked: Then who can manage my various craftsmen?


Chunk 7: 
original: 
皆曰垂可。
于是以垂为共工。
舜曰： 谁能驯予上下草木鸟兽？
皆曰益可。
于是以益为朕虞。
益拜稽首，让于诸臣朱虎、熊罴。
舜曰： 往矣，汝谐。
遂以朱虎、熊罴为佐。
舜曰： 嗟！四岳，有能典朕三礼？
皆曰伯夷可。
舜曰： 嗟！伯夷，以汝为秩宗，夙夜维敬，直哉维静絜。
伯夷让夔、龙。舜曰： 然。以夔为典乐，教稺子，直而温，宽而栗，刚而毋虐，简而毋傲；诗言意，歌长言，声依永，律和声，八音能谐，毋相夺伦，神人以和。
夔曰： 于！予击石拊石，百兽率舞。
舜曰： 龙，朕畏忌谗说殄伪，振惊朕众，命汝为纳言，夙夜出入朕命，惟信。
舜曰： 嗟！女二十有二人，敬哉，惟时相天事。
三岁一考功，三考绌陟，远近众功咸兴。
分北三苗。
此二十二人咸成厥功：皋陶为大理，平，民各伏得其实；伯夷主礼，上下咸让；垂主工师，百工致功；益主虞，山泽辟；弃主稷，百谷时茂；契主司徒，百姓亲和；龙主宾客，远人至；十二牧行而九州莫敢辟违；唯禹之功为大，披九山，通九泽，决九河，定九州，各以其职来贡，不失厥宜。
方五千里，至于荒服。
南抚交趾、北发，西戎、析枝、渠廋、氐、羌，北山戎、发、息慎，东长、鸟夷，四海之内咸戴帝舜之功。
translation: 
Everyone said it was OK.
So Chui was appointed Gonggong to lead various craftsmen.
Shun asked again: "Who can manage the grass, trees, birds and beasts in my mountains and swamps?"
Everyone said it was beneficial.
So Yi was appointed as Zhenyu, in charge of Shanze.
Yi bowed down, kowtowed, and gave way to Zhu Hu and Xiong Zhu.
Shun said: Go ahead, you can do it.
Let Zhu Hu and Xiong Yan be his assistants.
Shun said: Ah, the Four Mountains, who can preside over the three kinds of sacrifices for me: Heavenly affairs, earthly affairs, and human affairs?
Everyone said Boyi could do it.
Shun said: Ah, Boyi, I appoint you to be the head of the clan and in charge of sacrifices. You must be pious in the morning and evening, upright and clear!
Boyi gave the place to Kui and Long, and Shun said: Well, let Kui be appointed as Dian Yue, in charge of music, and educate young people to be upright and gentle, generous and serious, upright but not tyrannical, simple but not arrogant; poems are used to express thoughts, songs are used to extend the emotion of the language in the poems, music is used to express it, and standard music must be used to harmonize the music.
The sounds of the eight musical instruments are in harmony and do not lose the order of each other. In this way, the state of harmony between man and God can be achieved through music.
Kui said: Well, if I beat the stone in rhythm, all kinds of animals will dance along with it. Shun said: "Long, I hate those kinds of false accusations against others and the behavior that destroys morality and disturbs my subjects. I appoint you as the communicator. You must convey my orders and report the situation sooner or later. You must be honest and trustworthy."
Shun said: Hey, the twenty-two of you must abide by your duties and assist me at all times in the important affairs of governing the country entrusted by God.
After that, merit was assessed every three years, and removal or promotion was decided through three assessments, so various affairs both near and far developed.
They also divided and disintegrated the Sanmiao tribe.
Each of these twenty-two people achieved great achievements: Gao Tao served as Dali, in charge of criminal law, and settled cases impartially, and people believed that he sought truth from facts; Boyi presided over etiquette, and was courteous and courteous in both high and low positions; Chui served as engineer, in charge of all workers, and all workers could do their jobs well; Yi served as Yu, in charge of Shanze , the mountains, forests, lakes and swamps were all developed; he was abandoned as Ji, in charge of agriculture, and all the grains grew luxuriantly according to the seasons; Qi was in charge of Situ, in charge of education, and the people were close and harmonious; Long was in charge of receiving guests, and tribes from far away came to join them; Shun appointed the twelve prefectures for pastoral work, and no one in the nine prefectures appointed by Yu disobeyed. Among them, Yu had the greatest contribution. He opened nine mountains, dredged nine lakes, regulated nine rivers, and delineated the boundaries of the nine states. All places paid tribute according to the amount they should pay, and there was no violation of the regulations.
The territory spanning five thousand miles was pacified, all the way to the remote and remote areas farthest from the capital.
At that time, the south pacified Jiaozhi and Beifa, the west pacified Rong, Xizhi, Qusui, Di, and Qiang, the north pacified Shanrong, Fa, and Xishen, and the east pacified Chang and Niaoyi. All four seas jointly praised Emperor Shun's merits.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
于是禹乃兴九招之乐，致异物，凤皇来翔。
天下明德皆自虞帝始。
舜年二十以孝闻，年三十尧举之，年五十摄行天子事，年五十八尧崩，年六十一代尧践帝位。
践帝位三十九年，南巡狩，崩于苍梧之野。
葬于江南九疑，是为零陵。
舜之践帝位，载天子旗，往朝父瞽叟，夔夔唯谨，如子道。
封弟象为诸侯。
舜子商均亦不肖，舜乃豫荐禹于天。
十七年而崩。
三年丧毕，禹亦乃让舜子，如舜让尧子。
诸侯归之，然后禹践天子位。
尧子丹朱，舜子商均，皆有疆土，以奉先祀。
服其服，礼乐如之。
以客见天子，天子弗臣，示不敢专也。
自黄帝至舜、禹，皆同姓而异其国号，以章明德。
故黄帝为有熊，帝颛顼为高阳，帝喾为高辛，帝尧为陶唐，帝舜为有虞。
帝禹为夏后而别氏，姓姒氏。
契为商，姓子氏。
弃为周，姓姬氏。
太史公曰：学者多称五帝，尚矣。
然尚书独载尧以来；而百家言黄帝，其文不雅驯，荐绅先生难言之。
孔子所传宰予问五帝德及帝系姓，儒者或不传。
余尝西至空桐，北过涿鹿，东渐于海，南浮江淮矣，至长老皆各往往称黄帝、尧、舜之处，风教固殊焉，总之不离古文者近是。
予观春秋、国语，其发明五帝德、帝系姓章矣，顾弟弗深考，其所表见皆不虚。
书缺有间矣，其轶乃时时见于他说。
非好学深思，心知其意，固难为浅见寡闻道也。
余并论次，择其言尤雅者，故著为本纪书首。
translation: 
So Yu composed the music "Nine Moves" to praise Shun's merits, which attracted auspicious things, and the phoenix also flew in, circling and dancing with the music.
The Qingming Dynasty and its virtues all started from the time of Yu and Shun.
Shun was famous for his filial piety when he was twenty years old. He was appointed by Yao when he was thirty years old.
Thirty-nine years after he ascended the throne, he toured the south and died in the Cangwu countryside in the south.
Buried in Jiuyi Mountain on the south bank of the Yangtze River, this is Lingling.
After Shun ascended the throne, he rode in a car with the emperor's flag to pay homage to his father Gusou. He behaved humbly and cautiously and followed the principles of being a son.
He also made his younger brother Xiang a prince.
Shun's son Shangjun was also unqualified, so Shun recommended Yu to heaven in advance.
Shun died seventeen years later.
After three years of mourning, Yu also abdicated the throne to Shun's son, just as Shun abdicated to Yao's son.
The princes surrendered to Yu, and Yu ascended to the throne of emperor.
Yao's son Danzhu and Shun's son Shangjun were granted fiefs in Tang and Yu respectively to worship their ancestors.
Yu also asked them to wear their own family's clothes and use their own family's rituals and music.
They met the emperor with the courtesy of guests, and the emperor did not treat them as his ministers to show that he did not dare to monopolize the world.
From the Yellow Emperor to Shun and Yu, they all had the same surname, but they had different national titles in order to highlight their respective bright virtues.
Therefore, Huangdi was named Youxiong, Emperor Zhuanxu was named Gaoyang, Emperor Ku was named Gaoxin, Emperor Yao was named Taotang, and Emperor Shun was named Youyu.
Emperor Yu's title was Queen of Xia, and he was given another surname, Si.
The descendants of Qi founded Shang, with the surname Zi.
The descendants of Qi founded the Zhou Dynasty, and their surname was Ji.
Tai Shigong said: Many scholars refer to the Five Emperors, and the Five Emperors have been around for a long time.
"Shangshu" only records historical facts since Yao; while each school's description of the Yellow Emperor is rough and not typical, and it is difficult for the scholar-officials to explain clearly.
Some scholars do not pass on the "Zaiyu Asks the Virtues of the Five Emperors" and "Emperor Lineage Surnames" handed down by Confucius.
I once went to Kongtong in the west, Zhuolu in the north, the sea in the east, and crossed the Yangtze River and Huai River in the south. Wherever I went, I went to places where old people praised the deeds of the Yellow Emperor, Yao, and Shun. Although the customs and teachings were different, the statements that were consistent with ancient records were relatively credible.
I have studied "Spring and Autumn" and "Guoyu", and their explanations of "Five Emperors' Virtues" and "Emperor's Lineage" are very clear, but people have not studied them in depth. In fact, their descriptions are not false theories.
"Shangshu" is incomplete and intermittent, but scattered anecdotal records can often be found in other books.
If you are not eager to learn and think deeply, and truly understand their meaning in your heart, it will definitely be difficult to explain it to those who have shallow knowledge and limited knowledge.
I reviewed and sorted these materials, selected those with particularly elegant and correct writing, and wrote this chapter as the first chapter of the book.


