Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 2, 3, 8, 8]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
黄帝者，少典之子，姓公孙，名曰轩辕。
生而神灵，弱而能言，幼而徇齐，长而敦敏，成而聪明。
轩辕之时，神农氏世衰。诸侯相侵伐，暴虐百姓，而神农氏弗能征。
于是轩辕乃习用干戈，以征不享，诸侯咸来宾从。
而蚩尤最为暴，莫能伐。
炎帝欲侵陵诸侯，诸侯咸归轩辕。
轩辕乃修德振兵，治五气，蓺五种，抚万民，度四方，教熊罴貔貅貙虎，以与炎帝战于阪泉之野。三战，然后得其志。
蚩尤作乱，不用帝命。
于是黄帝乃征师诸侯，与蚩尤战于涿鹿之野，遂禽杀蚩尤。
而诸侯咸尊轩辕为天子，代神农氏，是为黄帝。
天下有不顺者，黄帝从而征之，平者去之，披山通道，未尝宁居。
东至于海，登丸山，及岱宗。
西至于空桐，登鸡头。
南至于江，登熊、湘。
北逐荤粥，合符釜山，而邑于涿鹿之阿。
迁徙往来无常处，以师兵为营卫。
官名皆以云命，为云师。
置左右大监，监于万国。
万国和，而鬼神山川封禅与为多焉。
获宝鼎，迎日推策。举风后、力牧、常先、大鸿以治民。
顺天地之纪，幽明之占，死生之说，存亡之难。时播百谷草木，淳化鸟兽虫蛾，旁罗日月星辰水波土石金玉，劳勤心力耳目，节用水火材物。
有土德之瑞，故号黄帝。
黄帝二十五子，其得姓者十四人。
黄帝居轩辕之丘，而娶于西陵之女，是为嫘祖。
嫘祖为黄帝正妃，生二子，其后皆有天下：其一曰玄嚣，是为青阳，青阳降居江水；其二曰昌意，降居若水。
昌意娶蜀山氏女，曰昌仆，生高阳，高阳有圣德焉。
黄帝崩，葬桥山。其孙昌意之子高阳立，是为帝颛顼也。
帝颛顼高阳者，黄帝之孙而昌意之子也。
translation: 
Huangdi is a descendant of the Shaodian tribe, and his surname is Gongsun and Xuanyuan.
He was born with great spirituality. He was good at speaking at a very young age. He was clever and alert as a child. He was honest and agile when he grew up. He was wise and judicious as an adult.
When Xuanyuan was in power, the descendants of the Shennong clan had declined. The princes fought against each other and abused the people with violence, but the Shennong clan had no power to conquer them.
So Xuanyuan practiced military training and went to conquer those princes who did not come to pay tribute. Only then did all the princes come to submit.
Chiyou was the most violent among the princes, and no one could conquer him.
Emperor Yan wanted to attack and oppress the princes, and all the princes came to Xuanyuan.
So Xuanyuan practiced virtue, rectified his army, studied the changes in the four seasons, planted grains, appeased the people, measured the land in all directions, trained bears, 罴, 貔, 貅, 貲, tigers and other beasts, and fought with Emperor Yan in the countryside of Banquan. After several battles, he conquered Emperor Yan and won as he wished.
Chiyou launched a rebellion and refused to obey Huangdi's orders.
So Huang Di mobilized the troops of the princes and fought with Chi You in the suburbs of Zhuolu, and finally captured and killed him.
In this way, the princes all respected Xuanyuan as the emperor, replacing Shennong. This was the Yellow Emperor.
When there were disobedient people in the world, the Yellow Emperor went to conquer them. After pacifying a place, he left, splitting mountains and clearing roads along the way, and never lived in peace anywhere.
Huang Di went east to the East China Sea and climbed Mount Maru and Mount Tai.
Went west to Kongtong and climbed to Jitou Mountain.
Went south to the Yangtze River and climbed Xiong Mountain and Xiang Mountain.
He expelled the Hunzhou tribe to the north, came to Busan, signed the talisman contract with the princes, and built a city at the foot of Zhulu Mountain.
The Yellow Emperor moved around and had no fixed residence. Wherever he led his troops, he set up military camps for self-defense.
All the official positions granted by the Yellow Emperor were named after Yun, and the army was called Yunshi.
He set up left and right supervisors to supervise the various vassal states.
At this time, all countries were in peace, so since ancient times, the number of people offering sacrifices to ghosts and gods in mountains and rivers was the highest during the Yellow Emperor's time.
The Yellow Emperor received the tripod given by God, so he observed the movement of the sun, used yarrow for divination to calculate the calendar, and predicted the solar terms and dates. He appointed Fenghou, Limu, Changxian, Dahong and others to govern the people.
The Yellow Emperor complied with the laws of the four seasons of heaven and earth, speculated on the changes of yin and yang, explained the principles of life and death, and discussed the causes of existence and death. He sown grains and grasses according to the seasons, domesticated birds, beasts, and silkworms, measured the sun, moon and stars to determine the calendar, collected earth, stone, gold, and jade for civilian use.
When he was the emperor, he had the auspicious sign of the attribute of earth. The earth was yellow in color, so he was called the Yellow Emperor.
Huangdi had twenty-five sons, fourteen of whom established their own surnames.
The Yellow Emperor lived in Xuanyuan Mountain and married a daughter of the Xiling Kingdom, who was Leizu.
Leizu was the Yellow Emperor's concubine and had two sons. Their descendants all ruled the world: one was named Xuanxiao, also known as Qingyang. Qingyang was named a prince and settled in Jiangshui; the other was named Changyi, who was also named a prince and settled in Ruoshui.
Changyi married a daughter of the Shushan clan, named Changpu, and gave birth to Gao Yang, who had the character of a saint.
After the death of Huangdi, he was buried in Qiaoshan. His grandson, Changyi's son Gaoyang, ascended the throne and became Emperor Zhuanxu.
Emperor Zhuanxu Gaoyang was the grandson of Huangdi and the son of Changyi.
summary:
Huangdi (Yellow Emperor), a descendant of the Shaodian tribe with the surname Gongsun and name Xuanyuan, displayed remarkable intelligence from birth. During his rise to power, the Shennong clan had declined, and princes were fighting violently. Xuanyuan trained his army, conquered rebellious princes, and eventually all submitted except the violent Chiyou. After Emperor Yan attacked the princes, they turned to Xuanyuan, who cultivated virtue, organized his forces, and defeated Emperor Yan at Banquan. He later captured and killed Chiyou at Zhuolu, after which the princes recognized him as emperor, replacing Shennong. The Yellow Emperor traveled extensively—east to Mount Tai, west to Kongtong, south to the Yangtze River, and north驱逐 the Hunzhou tribe. He had no fixed residence, establishing military camps wherever he went. He appointed officials named after clouds, created supervisory positions, and received a divine tripod for calendar-making. He observed celestial movements, calculated seasons, and appointed ministers to govern. Following the laws of heaven and earth, he studied yin and yang, explained life and death, cultivated grains, domesticated animals, and collected resources for public use. Because of the earth attribute's auspicious sign, he was called the Yellow Emperor. He had twenty-five sons, fourteen of whom established surnames. After his death, his grandson Gaoyang ascended as Emperor Zhuanxu.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
静渊以有谋，疏通而知事；养材以任地，载时以象天，依鬼神以制义，治气以教化，絜诚以祭祀。
北至于幽陵，南至于交趾，西至于流沙，东至于蟠木。
动静之物，大小之神，日月所照，莫不砥属。
帝颛顼生子曰穷蝉。
颛顼崩，而玄嚣之孙高辛立，是为帝喾。
帝喾高辛者，黄帝之曾孙也。
高辛父曰蟜极，蟜极父曰玄嚣，玄嚣父曰黄帝。
自玄嚣与蟜极皆不得在位，至高辛即帝位。
高辛于颛顼为族子。
高辛生而神灵，自言其名。
普施利物，不于其身。
聪以知远，明以察微。
顺天之义，知民之急。
仁而威，惠而信，修身而天下服。
取地之财而节用之，抚教万民而利诲之，历日月而迎送之，明鬼神而敬事之。
其色郁郁，其德嶷嶷。
其动也时，其服也士。
帝喾溉执中而遍天下，日月所照，风雨所至，莫不从服。
帝喾娶陈锋氏女，生放勋。
娶娵訾氏女，生挚。
帝喾崩，而挚代立。
帝挚立，不善，而弟放勋立，是为帝尧。帝尧者，放勋。
其仁如天，其知如神。
就之如日，望之如云。
富而不骄，贵而不舒。
黄收纯衣，彤车乘白马。
能明驯德，以亲九族。
九族既睦，便章百姓。
百姓昭明，合和万国。
乃命羲、和，敬顺昊天，数法日月星辰，敬授民时。
分命羲仲，居郁夷，曰旸谷。敬道日出，便程东作。
translation: 
He is calm, steady, resourceful, and knowledgeable. He raised various crops and livestock to make full use of the soil, calculated the four seasons to conform to nature, followed the ghosts and gods to formulate etiquette and justice, straightened out the energy of the four seasons and the five elements to educate the people, and purified the body and mind to sacrifice to the ghosts and gods.
He went north to Youling, south to Jiaozhi, west to Liusha, and east to Panmu.
All kinds of animals and plants, big gods and small gods, wherever the sun and moon shine, are all pacified, and there is no one who does not submit.
The son born to Emperor Zhuanxu was called Qiongchan.
After Zhuan Xu's death, Xuan Xiao's grandson Gao Xin came to the throne and became Emperor Ku.
Emperor Ku Gaoxin was the great-grandson of the Yellow Emperor.
Gao Xin's father was called Xiuji, Xiuji's father was named Xuanxiao, and Xuanxiao's father was Huangdi.
Neither Xuan Xiao nor Xiu Ji ascended to the throne of God, and they did not ascend to the throne of God until Gaoxin.
Gao Xin was Zhuanxu's nephew.
Gao Xin was born with great aura and called out his name as soon as he was born.
He generally bestows favor on everyone but not himself.
He is smart and intelligent, can understand long-term situations, and can discern subtle things.
He complies with the will of God and understands the concerns of the people.
Be benevolent and dignified, be gentle and trustworthy, cultivate yourself, and the world will obey you.
He collects the products of the land and uses them frugally; he caresss and educates the people and teaches them all kinds of useful things; he calculates the movements of the sun and the moon to determine the solar terms of the year, and respectfully welcomes the coming and going of the sun and the moon; he knows the ghosts and gods clearly and serves them carefully.
He has a dignified appearance and high moral character.
His actions are in keeping with the times and his actions are like those of a scholar.
The emperor governs the people as impartially as rainwater irrigates farmland, all over the world, wherever the sun and moon shine, wherever the wind and rain go, no one disobeys and submits.
Emperor Ku married Chen Feng's daughter and gave birth to Fangxun.
Marry the daughter of the Qozi clan and give birth to Zhi.
After Emperor Ku's death, Zhi took over the throne.
After Emperor Zhi ascended the throne, he did not achieve any political achievements, so his younger brother Fangxun ascended the throne. This is Emperor Yao. Emperor Yao was a man of honor.
He is as kind as heaven and as wise as God.
Being close to him warms the heart like the sun; looking up to him is like clouds covering the earth.
He is rich but not proud, noble but not indulgent.
He wears a yellow hat, black clothes, a scarlet chariot and a white horse.
He can respect virtuous people and make nine generations of the same clan love each other.
Since the people of the same clan were at peace, they went to inspect the officials.
All officials have outstanding achievements, and all princes and states can live in harmony.
Emperor Yao ordered the Xi family and the He family to follow the will of God, draw up a calendar based on the appearance and appearance of the sun and the moon, and the position of the stars, and carefully teach the people the production seasons.
In addition, he ordered Xizhong, who lived in Yuyi, a place called Yanggu, to greet the sunrise respectfully and arrange the spring farming in different steps.
summary:
Emperor Zhuanxu Gaoyang was calm, resourceful, and knowledgeable. He cultivated crops, calculated seasons, followed ghosts and gods to establish rituals, and educated the people. His domain extended north to Youling, south to Jiaozhi, west to Liusha, and east to Panmu, pacifying all creatures. After his death, his nephew Gao Xin became Emperor Ku. Gao Xin was born with great aura, benevolent and dignified, understanding both divine will and people's concerns. He governed impartially, and all under heaven submitted. After his death, his son Zhi ruled without achievement, so his brother Fangxun became Emperor Yao.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
日中，星鸟，以殷中春。
其民析，鸟兽字微。
申命羲叔，居南交。
便程南讹，敬致。日永，星火，以正中夏。
其民因，鸟兽希革。
申命和仲，居西土，曰昧谷。敬道日入，便程西成。
夜中，星虚，以正中秋。
其民夷易，鸟兽毛毨。
申命和叔；居北方，曰幽都。
便在伏物。日短，星昴，以正中冬。
其民燠，鸟兽氄毛。
岁三百六十六日，以闰月正四时。
信饬百官，众功皆兴。
尧曰： 谁可顺此事？
放齐曰： 嗣子丹朱开明。
尧曰： 吁！
顽凶，不用。
尧又曰： 谁可者？
驩兜曰： 共工旁聚布功，可用。
尧曰： 共工善言，其用僻，似恭漫天，不可。
尧又曰： 嗟，四岳，汤汤洪水滔天，浩浩怀山襄陵，下民其忧，有能使治者？
皆曰鲧可。
尧曰： 鲧负命毁族，不可。
岳曰： 异哉，试不可用而已。
尧于是听岳用鲧。
九岁，功用不成。尧曰： 嗟！
四岳：朕在位七十载，汝能庸命，践朕位？
岳应曰： 鄙德忝帝位。
尧曰： 悉举贵戚及疏远隐匿者。
众皆言于尧曰： 有矜在民间，曰虞舜。
尧曰： 然，朕闻之。
其何如？ 岳曰： 盲者子。
translation: 
On the vernal equinox, the day is as long as the night. The stars in Suzaku's seven constellations appear in the south at dusk. This is used to determine the time of mid-spring.
At this time, people dispersed to work, and birds and animals gave birth and mated.
He also ordered Uncle Xi, who lived in Nanjiao, to arrange the summer farm work step by step and do it carefully.
On the summer solstice, the day is the longest, and the heart constellation among the seven constellations of Canglong appears in the south when it is first twilight. Accordingly, the time of midsummer is determined.
At this time, the people are in high places, and the feathers of birds and animals are sparse.
He also ordered He Zhong, who lived in the Western Land, that place was called Shibuya, to respectfully send the sun down and arrange the autumn harvest in a step-by-step manner.
On the autumnal equinox, the night is as long as the day. The virtual constellation among the seven constellations of Xuanwu appears in the due south at the beginning of dusk. Based on this, the time of mid-autumn is determined.
At this time, people moved to the plains, and birds and animals regenerated new hair.
He also ordered Uncle He, who lives in the north, that place is called Youdu, to carefully arrange the winter collection.
On the winter solstice, the day is the shortest, and Pleiades, one of the seven constellations of the White Tiger, appears in the due south when it is first twilight, and the time of midwinter is determined based on this.
At this time, people go into their houses to keep warm, and birds and animals are covered with fine hair.
There are 366 days in a year, and leap moons are used to correct the four seasons of spring, summer, autumn and winter.
Emperor Yao sincerely warned all officials to keep their duties, and all kinds of things were done.
Yao said: Who can inherit my career?
Fang Qi said: Your son Danzhu is a master of affairs.
Yao said: Hum!
Danzhu, he is stupid, vicious and cannot be used.
Yao asked again: Then who else can?
Huandou said: Gonggong has gathered people extensively and made achievements, which can be used.
Yao said: Gonggong likes to talk nice words, but his intentions are not right. When he speaks, he seems to be very respectful, but his heart is absent and cannot be used.
Yao asked again: Alas, the Four Mountains, now the floods are surging and mighty, surrounding the mountains and covering the hills. The people are extremely miserable. Who can be sent to control them?
Everyone said Gun could do it.
Yao said: Gun violated the destiny of heaven and destroyed his own people, so he cannot be used.
The four mountains all said: Just use him. If it doesn't work, then remove him.
Yao therefore followed Siyue's advice and appointed Gun.
Gun controlled the flood for nine years without achieving any results. Yao said: Alas!
Dear leaders, I have been on the throne for seventy years. Which of you can follow the destiny and succeed me as emperor?
Siyue replied: Our virtues are very despicable and we are not worthy of being on the throne of God.
Yao said: "Then let's recommend him from among all the ministers near and far with the same surname and different surnames, as well as those who live in seclusion.
Everyone said to Yao: There was a single man living among the people, named Yu Shun.
Yao said: Yes, I have heard of him. What is he like?
Siyue replied; He is the son of a blind man.
summary:
Emperor Yao was kind as heaven and wise as God, rich but not proud. He united his clan, inspected officials, and ordered the Xi and He families to create a calendar based on celestial observations. He appointed officials to oversee spring, summer, autumn, and winter farming, establishing a 366-day year with leap months. When Yao sought a successor, his son Danzhu was deemed unworthy, and Gonggong was rejected for insincerity. Despite warnings, Gun was appointed to control floods but failed after nine years. The Four Mountains recommended Yu Shun, a filial man living among commoners. Yao tested Shun by marrying his daughters to him, observing his virtue, and assigning him various duties, which Shun performed excellently.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
父顽，母嚚，弟傲，能和以孝，烝烝治，不至奸。
尧曰： 吾其试哉。
于是尧妻之二女，观其德于二女。
舜饬下二女于妫汭，如妇礼。
尧善之，乃使舜慎和五典，五典能从。
乃遍入百官，百官时序。
宾于四门，四门穆穆，诸侯远方宾客皆敬。
尧使舜入山林川泽，暴风雷雨，舜行不迷。
尧以为圣，召舜曰： 女谋事至而言可绩，三年矣。
女登帝位。
舜让于德不怿。
正月上日，舜受终于文祖。
文祖者，尧大祖也。
于是帝尧老，命舜摄行天子之政，以观天命。
舜乃在璿玑玉衡，以齐七政。遂类于上帝，禋于六宗，望于山川，辩于群神。
揖五瑞，择吉月日，见四岳诸牧，班瑞。
岁二月，东巡狩，至于岱宗，祡，望秩于山川。
遂见东方君长，合时月正日，同律度量衡，修五礼五玉三帛二生一死为挚，如五器，卒乃复。
五月，南巡狩；八月，西巡狩；十一月，北巡狩：皆如初。
归，至于祖祢庙，用特牛礼。
五岁一巡狩，群后四朝。
遍告以言，明试以功，车服以庸。
肇十有二州，决川。
translation: 
His father was fierce and stubborn, his mother was stupid and stubborn, and his brother was arrogant, but Shun was able to live in harmony with them, practice filial piety, and manage the family business with virtue to prevent them from going evil.
Yao said: Then I will give him a try.
So Yao married his two daughters to him and observed his virtues from his two daughters.
Shun asked them to lower their noble hearts and live in their homes by the Gui River, observing the ways of being wives.
Yao thought this was a good thing, so he asked Shun to take the post of Situ. He carefully followed the five ethics and morals: fatherly righteousness, motherly kindness, brother-friendship, brotherly respect, and son's filial piety. The people followed them and never violated them.
Yao also asked him to participate in the affairs of the officials, and the affairs of the officials became orderly.
Let him receive guests at the four gates of the Mingtang. The four gates are in harmony, and the guests from the princes and guests from far away are respectful.
Yao then sent Shun into the mountains, jungles, rivers and swamps, and encountered a storm and thunderstorm, but Shun did not get lost or make any mistakes.
Yao even thought that he was very smart and virtuous, so he called him over and said: "In the past three years, you have done things carefully and can do what you say."
Now you can ascend to the throne of emperor.
Shun Tui said that his virtue was not enough and he was unwilling to accept the throne.
On the first day of the first lunar month, Shun accepted Yao's abdication in Wenzu Temple.
Wenzu was also the Taizu of Yao.
At this time, Yao was already old and asked Shun to act as the emperor's political agent, so as to observe whether Shun was in line with God's will as emperor.
Shun then used instruments for observing astronomical phenomena to locate the sun, the moon, and the five stars of metal, wood, water, fire, and earth. He then held temporary ceremonies to offer sacrifices to heaven. He used the ritual of burning sacrifices on fire to worship the four seasons of heaven and earth.
He collected five types of jade talisman letters from Huan Gui, Xin Gui, Gong Gui, Gu Bi, and Pu Bi held by the fifth-ranking marquis, Bozi, the Duke and the Prince. He chose a good month and an auspicious day, summoned the four mountains and the prefects of each state, and issued them to them.
In February, Shun went to the East for inspection. When he arrived at Mount Tai, he used the ceremony of burning firewood to worship Dongyue, and used the ceremony of distant sacrifice to worship the famous mountains and rivers in various places.
Then, he summoned the princes from the East to coordinate and correct the four seasons, the size of the moon, and the sun. He unified the rhythm and the standards of length, capacity, and weight. He revised the five etiquettes of good luck, bad luck, guest, military, and honor. He stipulated that the princes should use five kinds of Guibi and three kinds of colored silk.
In May, he went on a tour to the south; in August, he went to the west; in November, he went to the north: all the same as when he first went to the east.
After returning, he went to the ancestral temple and father's temple and used a cow as a sacrifice.
From now on, inspections will be held every five years. During the four years, all princes and kings will come to the capital on time to pay homage.
Shun generally explained the principles of governing the country to the princes, clearly inspected them according to their achievements, and gave chariots and horses clothes according to their merits.
Shun began to divide the world into twelve states and dredge the rivers.
summary:
Shun accepted Yao's abdication and began governing. He established rituals, standardized measurements, and conducted inspections every five years. He divided the world into twelve states, dredged rivers, and implemented a penal system with reduced punishments. He exiled the four evil ministers—Gonggong, Huandou, Sanmiao, and Gun—satisfying the world. After Yao's death, Shun initially yielded to Danzhu, but the people universally supported Shun, who then ascended the throne.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
于是禹乃兴九招之乐，致异物，凤皇来翔。
天下明德皆自虞帝始。
舜年二十以孝闻，年三十尧举之，年五十摄行天子事，年五十八尧崩，年六十一代尧践帝位。
践帝位三十九年，南巡狩，崩于苍梧之野。
葬于江南九疑，是为零陵。
舜之践帝位，载天子旗，往朝父瞽叟，夔夔唯谨，如子道。
封弟象为诸侯。
舜子商均亦不肖，舜乃豫荐禹于天。
十七年而崩。
三年丧毕，禹亦乃让舜子，如舜让尧子。
诸侯归之，然后禹践天子位。
尧子丹朱，舜子商均，皆有疆土，以奉先祀。
服其服，礼乐如之。
以客见天子，天子弗臣，示不敢专也。
自黄帝至舜、禹，皆同姓而异其国号，以章明德。
故黄帝为有熊，帝颛顼为高阳，帝喾为高辛，帝尧为陶唐，帝舜为有虞。
帝禹为夏后而别氏，姓姒氏。
契为商，姓子氏。
弃为周，姓姬氏。
太史公曰：学者多称五帝，尚矣。
然尚书独载尧以来；而百家言黄帝，其文不雅驯，荐绅先生难言之。
孔子所传宰予问五帝德及帝系姓，儒者或不传。
余尝西至空桐，北过涿鹿，东渐于海，南浮江淮矣，至长老皆各往往称黄帝、尧、舜之处，风教固殊焉，总之不离古文者近是。
予观春秋、国语，其发明五帝德、帝系姓章矣，顾弟弗深考，其所表见皆不虚。
书缺有间矣，其轶乃时时见于他说。
非好学深思，心知其意，固难为浅见寡闻道也。
余并论次，择其言尤雅者，故著为本纪书首。
translation: 
So Yu composed the music "Nine Moves" to praise Shun's merits, which attracted auspicious things, and the phoenix also flew in, circling and dancing with the music.
The Qingming Dynasty and its virtues all started from the time of Yu and Shun.
Shun was famous for his filial piety when he was twenty years old. He was appointed by Yao when he was thirty years old.
Thirty-nine years after he ascended the throne, he toured the south and died in the Cangwu countryside in the south.
Buried in Jiuyi Mountain on the south bank of the Yangtze River, this is Lingling.
After Shun ascended the throne, he rode in a car with the emperor's flag to pay homage to his father Gusou. He behaved humbly and cautiously and followed the principles of being a son.
He also made his younger brother Xiang a prince.
Shun's son Shangjun was also unqualified, so Shun recommended Yu to heaven in advance.
Shun died seventeen years later.
After three years of mourning, Yu also abdicated the throne to Shun's son, just as Shun abdicated to Yao's son.
The princes surrendered to Yu, and Yu ascended to the throne of emperor.
Yao's son Danzhu and Shun's son Shangjun were granted fiefs in Tang and Yu respectively to worship their ancestors.
Yu also asked them to wear their own family's clothes and use their own family's rituals and music.
They met the emperor with the courtesy of guests, and the emperor did not treat them as his ministers to show that he did not dare to monopolize the world.
From the Yellow Emperor to Shun and Yu, they all had the same surname, but they had different national titles in order to highlight their respective bright virtues.
Therefore, Huangdi was named Youxiong, Emperor Zhuanxu was named Gaoyang, Emperor Ku was named Gaoxin, Emperor Yao was named Taotang, and Emperor Shun was named Youyu.
Emperor Yu's title was Queen of Xia, and he was given another surname, Si.
The descendants of Qi founded Shang, with the surname Zi.
The descendants of Qi founded the Zhou Dynasty, and their surname was Ji.
Tai Shigong said: Many scholars refer to the Five Emperors, and the Five Emperors have been around for a long time.
"Shangshu" only records historical facts since Yao; while each school's description of the Yellow Emperor is rough and not typical, and it is difficult for the scholar-officials to explain clearly.
Some scholars do not pass on the "Zaiyu Asks the Virtues of the Five Emperors" and "Emperor Lineage Surnames" handed down by Confucius.
I once went to Kongtong in the west, Zhuolu in the north, the sea in the east, and crossed the Yangtze River and Huai River in the south. Wherever I went, I went to places where old people praised the deeds of the Yellow Emperor, Yao, and Shun. Although the customs and teachings were different, the statements that were consistent with ancient records were relatively credible.
I have studied "Spring and Autumn" and "Guoyu", and their explanations of "Five Emperors' Virtues" and "Emperor's Lineage" are very clear, but people have not studied them in depth. In fact, their descriptions are not false theories.
"Shangshu" is incomplete and intermittent, but scattered anecdotal records can often be found in other books.
If you are not eager to learn and think deeply, and truly understand their meaning in your heart, it will definitely be difficult to explain it to those who have shallow knowledge and limited knowledge.
I reviewed and sorted these materials, selected those with particularly elegant and correct writing, and wrote this chapter as the first chapter of the book.
summary:
Shun's lineage traced back to Emperor Zhuanxu, though his immediate ancestors were commoners. Despite his father Gusou, stepmother, and brother Xiang repeatedly attempting to kill him, Shun remained filial and respectful. His virtue attracted people, and wherever he lived, communities grew. Yao tested him thoroughly before entrusting him with governance. Shun appointed worthy descendants of ancient families—the Eight Kai and Eight Yuan—to manage agriculture and education, while exiling four evil families. He appointed Yu to control floods, Gaotao as judge, and other capable ministers. Yu's contributions were greatest: opening mountains, dredging rivers, and delineating nine provinces. The territory expanded five thousand miles, and all regions submitted. Shun died while touring south and was buried at Jiuyi Mountain. His son Shangjun being unworthy, Shun recommended Yu to heaven. After Shun's death, Yu ascended the throne, continuing the pattern of abdication. The historian notes that while records of the Five Emperors are ancient and sometimes unclear, careful study of various texts and oral traditions confirms their authenticity. This account selects the most elegant and correct materials as the first chapter of the historical record.

