Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝元王皇后，成帝母也。
家凡十侯，五大司马，外戚莫盛焉。
自有传。
孝成许皇后，大司马车骑将军平恩侯嘉女也。
元帝悼伤母恭哀后居位日浅而遭霍氏之辜，故选嘉女以配皇太子。
初入太了家，上令中常侍黄门亲近者侍送，还白太子欢说状，元帝喜谓左右： 酌酒贺我！
左右皆称万岁。
久之，有一男，失之。
乃成帝即位，立许妃为皇后，复生一女，失之。
初，后父嘉自元帝时为大司马车骑将军辅政，已八九年矣。
及成帝立，复以元舅阳平侯王凤为大司马、大将军，与嘉并。
杜钦以为故事后父重于帝舅，乃说凤曰： 车骑将军至贵，将军宜尊之敬之，无失其意。
盖轻细微眇之渐，必生乖忤之患，不可不慎。
卫将军之日盛于盖侯，近世之事，语尚在于长老之耳，唯将军察焉。
久之，上欲专委任凤，乃策嘉曰： 将军家重身尊，不宜以吏职自累。
translation: 
The queen of Emperor Xiaoyuan was the mother of Emperor Cheng.
The Wang family has a total of ten princes and five chief ministers. Among the relatives, no one is more prosperous than their family.
Queen Wang's relatives have their own biographies.
Empress Xu of Emperor Xiaocheng was the daughter of Ping Enhou Xu Jia, the general of the Great Sima Chariot Cavalry.
Emperor Yuan mourned the death of his mother and mourned the murder of the Huo family for a short period of time in her reign. He specially selected Xu Jia's daughter to be betrothed to the crown prince.
When Mrs. Xu first entered the crown prince's palace, the emperor sent his ministers and close associates from Huangmen to serve him. When these people came back, they told how happy the crown prince was. Emperor Yuan was overjoyed and said to his left and right: "Please pour some wine to congratulate me!"
Everyone on the left and right shouted long live.
After meeting for a long time, Concubine Xu gave birth to a son who died in infancy.
After Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, he appointed Concubine Xu as empress. Empress Xu gave birth to another daughter, who also died in infancy.
At first, the queen's father, Xu Jia, had been appointed as a general in charge of carriage and cavalry to assist the government since the Yuan Dynasty. It had been eight or nine years.
After Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, he named his uncle Wang Feng, Marquis of Yangping, the Great Sima General, alongside Xu Jia.
Du Qin believed that according to the old rules, the queen's father's status should be more noble than the emperor's uncle, so he advised Wang Feng: "The chariot general's status is extremely noble. General, you should respect him and do not go against his wishes."
Even small differences can lead to catastrophic hostility, so we must not be careless.
At that time, the glory of General Wei was greater than that of Gaihou. In modern times, older people often talk about it and hope that the general will consider it carefully.
Later, the emperor planned to appoint only Wang Feng, so he gave Xu Jiawen a letter saying: The general has a distinguished status and should not be burdened by his official position.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
赐黄金二百斤，以特进侯就朝位。
后岁余薨，谥曰恭侯。
后聪慧，善史书，自为妃至即位，常宠于上，后宫希得进见。
皇太后及帝诸舅忧上无继嗣，时又数有灾异，刘向、谷永等皆陈其咎在于后宫。
上然其言，于是省减椒房掖廷用度。
皇后及上疏曰：
妾夸布服粝粮，加以幼稚愚惑，不明义理，幸得免离茅屋之下，备后宫扫除。
蒙过误之宠，居非命所当托，污秽不修，旷职尸官，数逆至法，逾越制度，当伏放流之诛，不足以塞责。
乃壬寅日大长秋受诏： 椒房仪法，御服舆驾，所发诸官署，及所造作，遗赐外家群臣妾，皆如竟宁以前故事。
妾伏自念，入椒房以来，遗赐外家未尝逾故事，每辄决上，可复问也。
translation: 
He was rewarded with two hundred catties of gold and established in the court with a special promotion position.
More than a year later, Xu Jia passed away and was given the title Gonghou.
Queen Xu was intelligent by nature and good at writing official scripts. From the time she became the crown prince to the time she was appointed queen, she was often favored by the emperor. Women in the harem were rarely summoned by the emperor.
The empress dowager and the emperor's uncles were worried that the emperor would have no heirs. At this time, disasters occurred repeatedly. Liu Xiang, Gu Yong and others all reported that the fault was in the harem.
The emperor thought they were right. Therefore, the expenses for the Queen's Palace and Yeting were reduced.
The queen went to the court and said:
I came from a poor family with a poor diet, and I was young, ignorant, and ignorant of the truth. I was fortunate enough to be able to leave a commoner's home and serve His Majesty in the harem.
Thanks to your majesty's wrong love, I am in the position of queen that I should not have earned. However, I cannot keep myself clean and fulfill my duties. I have always violated laws and regulations and undermined the system. Even though I was sentenced to exile, it was not enough to justify my crime.
So the edict was read out in the Changqiu period of Renyin: The queen should follow the etiquette and laws, dress her carriages and horses, take the property from the official office, make useful items, and reward her relatives and families, all in accordance with the old practices before Emperor Xiaoyuan.
I secretly thought to myself that since I became the Queen, the rewards for my family have never exceeded the system. Every time I discuss the decision with Your Majesty, Your Majesty can verify everything.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
今诚时世异制，长短相补，不出汉制而已，纤微之间，未必可同。
若竟宁前与黄龙前，岂相放哉？
家吏不晓，今一受诏如此，且使妾摇手不得。
今言无得发取诸官，殆谓未央官不属妾，不宜独取也。
言妾家府亦不当得，妾窃惑焉。
幸得赐汤沐邑以自奉养，亦小发取其中，何害于谊而不可哉？
又诏书言服御所造，皆如竟宁前，吏诚不能揆其意，即且令妾被服所为不得不如前。
设妾欲作某屏风张于某所，曰故事无有，或不能得，则必绳妾以诏书矣。
此二事诚不可行，唯陛下省察。
宦吏忮佷，必欲自胜。
幸妾尚贵时，犹以不急事操人，况今日日益侵，又获此诏，其操约人，岂有所诉？
陛下见妾在椒房，终不肯给妾纤微内邪？
若不私府小取，将安所仰乎？
translation: 
Nowadays, times are different, and the system will also change. Increases and decreases complement each other. As long as it does not exceed the customization of the Han family, it is difficult to achieve complete consistency in details.
Can Emperor Xiaoyuan and Emperor Xiaoxuan do the same thing?
Officials don't understand these principles. Once I get such an edict, I will make mistakes at every turn.
The current announcement that property cannot be taken from the official office probably means that Weiyang Palace is where His Majesty lives and does not belong to me, so I cannot take property from it.
But if you say that even the private government cannot obtain property from it, I don't understand it.
Since I was fortunate enough to be rewarded with a fief to support myself, that is, I got some wealth from it, what's wrong with it logically?
The Shao Book also said that the level of extravagance and frugality in making all practical items should be consistent with that before Emperor Xiaoyuan, but the officials must not understand this meaning, and they just asked me to make things exactly the same as in the old days.
If I plan to build a certain kind of screen and want to put it somewhere, or the old regulations do not allow it, or there is no precedent at all, the officials will definitely use the words in the Shao Book to restrict me.
These two things are indeed not feasible. I hope your Majesty will understand clearly.
Officials are jealous and vicious, and they must express themselves clearly.
I was in a distinguished position at that time, and they were still using trivial matters to control others. What's more, now they are even more excessive, and with such a shao shu, once they hold us hostage, how can we express our grievances?
Your Majesty saw that I was a queen and refused to give me any supplies.
If I don't get some wealth in my private life, what else can I rely on?


Chunk 3: 
original: 
旧故，中官乃私夺左右之贱缯，乃发乘舆服缯，言为待诏补，已而贸易其中。
左右多窃怨者，甚耻为之。
又故事以特牛祠大父母，戴侯、敬侯皆得蒙恩以太牢祠，今当率如故事，唯陛下哀之！
今吏甫受诏读记，直豫言使后知之，非可复若私府有所取也。
其萌牙所以约制妾者，恐失人理。
今但损车驾，及毋若未央官有所发，遗赐衣服如故事，则可矣。
其余诚太迫急，奈何？
妾薄命，端遇竟宁前，竟宁前于今世而比之，岂可邪？
故时酒肉有所赐外家，辄上表乃决。
又故杜陵梁美人岁时遗酒一石，肉百斤耳。妾甚少之，遗田八子诚不可若是。
事率众多，不可胜以文陈。
俟自见，索言之，唯陛下深察焉！
上于是采刘向、谷永之言以报曰：
皇帝向皇后，所言事闻之。
translation: 
In the old days, the queen would often privately seize the cloths and carriage clothes of the attendants, claiming that they were given to be repaired by the imperial edict, and then take them back to her own possessions.
The people in the palace are secretly resentful, and I am ashamed to do things like making things.
In the old practice, bulls were used to sacrifice their grandparents. Both Daihou and Jinghou were able to use the Tailao ritual to sacrifice due to divine grace. Now we should also follow the old system. May your majesty have mercy on my family!
Now that the officials had just received the edict, they threatened to let the queen know this, and they could no longer take property from the private house as in the past.
They wanted to control me from the beginning, which was probably unnatural.
Now, if we only reduce the cost of carriages and horses, and do not take property from Weiyang Palace, but reward the maternal family according to the old practice, that will be fine.
The rest of the regulations are too pressing. What should we do?
My fate is not good, but it happens to be according to the old practice before Emperor Xiaoyuan. It was different then than it is now.
In the old days, the reward of wine and meat to a foreigner's family could only be decided by divination and petition.
Also, it turns out that Du Ling and Liang Meiren’s family are given one stone of wine and one hundred catties of meat every year. I think it is too little. Tian Bazi should be rewarded more than Liang Meiren.
There are many more such things, it is impossible to list them all.
I hope that I can be summoned by the emperor to tell you all these things in detail. Please let your majesty watch carefully!
Emperor Cheng followed the words of Liu Xiang and Gu Yong and answered the queen:
The emperor comforted the queen, I have heard everything you said.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
夫日者众阳之宗，天光之贵，王者之象，人君之位也。
夫以阴而侵阳，亏其正体，是非下陵上，妻乘夫，贱逾贵之变与？
春秋二百四十二年，变异为众，莫若日蚀大。
自汉兴，日蚀亦为吕、霍之属见。
以今揆之，岂有此等之效与？
诸侯拘迫汉制，牧相执持之也，又安获齐、赵七国之难？
将相大臣怀诚秉忠，唯义是从，又恶有上官、博陆、宣成之谋？
若乃徒步豪桀，非有陈胜、项梁之群也；匈奴、夷狄，非有冒顿、郅支之伦也。
方外内乡，百蛮宾服，殊俗慕义，八州怀德，虽使其怀挟邪意，狄不足忧，又况其无乎？
求于夷狄无有，求于臣下无有，微后官也当，何以塞之？
日者，建始元年正月，白气出于营室。
营室者，天子之后官也。
正月于《尚书》为皇极。
皇极者，王气之极也。
白者西方之气，其于春当废。
今正于皇极之月，兴废气于后宫，视后妾无能怀任保全者，以著继嗣之微，贱人将起也。
translation: 
The sun is the source of yang energy between heaven and earth, and is the most precious light in the sky. The appearance of a king is the dignity of a monarch.
If Yin Qi invades Yang Qi and depletes the righteousness in the body, won't this lead to disasters such as the wife controlling her husband, and the humble overriding the noble?
In the 242 years of the Spring and Autumn Period, the most common disaster was the solar eclipse.
Since the rise of the Han Dynasty, solar eclipses have also occurred when the relatives of the Lu family and the Huo family were in power.
Judging from the current situation, is it also caused by this reason?
The princes were restrained by the Han system and controlled by the prime minister. How could there be another rebellion like the Qi and Zhao states?
The ministers were loyal and upheld benevolence and righteousness, so how could rebellions like that of Shangguan and his son, Bo Luhou, and Xuancheng Jun happen?
As for the heroes among the common people, they are no longer Chen Sheng and Xiang Liang; the Huns and Yi Di are no longer the Maodun Chanyu and Zhizhi Chanyu.
The remote tribes have always admired the central government, all the ethnic minorities have surrendered to the Celestial Empire, the foreign countries yearn for the way of benevolence and righteousness, and the people of the world are kind-hearted. Even if they have evil intentions, it is not enough to worry, let alone there is none at all?
I can't find the reason from Yidian, and I can't find the reason from my subordinates. If I don't use the harem to ward off the crime, how can I deal with it?
In the past, in the first month of the first year of Jianshi, white gas came out of the camp.
The camp is the emperor's harem.
The first month of the year is called Huangji in Shangshu.
Huangji is the standard of the emperor's spirit.
White Qi belongs to the Western Qi and should decline in spring.
Now, during the Emperor's Moon, the harem is showing signs of decline. It seems that none of the queen's concubines can get pregnant and the fetus can be preserved. This is a clear sign that the royal family has no heirs and despicable people will rise.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
至其九月，流星如瓜，出于文昌，贯紫宫，尾委曲如龙，临于钩陈，此又章显前尤，著在内也。
其后则有北宫井溢，南流逆理，数郡水出，流杀人民。
后则讹言传相惊震，女童入殿，咸莫觉知。
夫河者水阴，四渎之长，今乃大决，没漂陵邑，斯昭阴盛盈溢，违经绝纪之应也。
乃昔之月，鼠巢于树，野鹊变色。
五月庚子，鸟焚其巢太山之域。《易》曰： 鸟焚其巢，旅人先笑后号啕。
丧牛于易，凶。
言王者处民上，如鸟之处巢也，不顾恤百姓，百姓畔而去之，若鸟之自焚也，虽先快意说笑，其后必号而无及也。
百姓丧其君，若牛亡其毛也，故称凶。
泰山，王者易姓告代之处，今正于岱宗之山，甚可惧也。
三月癸未，大风自西摇祖宗寝庙，扬裂帷席，折拔树木，顿僵车辇，毁坏槛屋，灾及宗庙，足为寒心！
四月己亥，日蚀东井，转旅且索，与既无异。
己犹戊也，亥复水也，明阴盛，咎在内。
于戊己，亏君体，著绝世于皇极，显祸败及京都。
于东井，变怪众备，末重益大，来数益甚。
成形之祸月以迫切，不救之患日寝屡深，咎败灼灼若此，岂可以忽哉！
《书》云： 高宗肜日，粤有雊雉。
translation: 
In September, a melon-shaped meteor came out from the Six Stars of Wenchang, passed through the Purple Palace, and its tail curved into the shape of a dragon, and fell in Gouchen. This also shows that the previous mistakes obviously occurred in the harem.
Later, the well water in Beigong overflowed and flowed southward contrary to common sense. Floods occurred in several counties and many people drowned.
Later, shocking rumors spread, saying that a little girl had gone to the main hall, but no one noticed.
The water of the Yellow River belongs to Yin, and it is the first of the four rivers. Now it has burst into disaster and flooded many counties. This further proves that too much Yin energy is a sign of violating the classics and corrupting the principles.
In the past few months, mice have made nests in the trees, and wild magpies have changed their coat color.
In the fifth month of Gengzi, the birds in Mount Tai burned their nests. The Book of Changes says: When the birds burn their nests, the travelers first laugh and then howl and cry.
Losing an ox in Yi is a bad omen.
It means that the king is above the people, just like a bird in its nest. If he does not show consideration to the people, the people will betray him and leave him, just like a bird burning its nest. Although it is happy and joyful at first, it will be too late to even cry.
When the people lose their monarch, they are like a cow without its hair, so it is called evil.
Mount Tai was originally the place where the dynasty changed its dynasty and announced its declaration to heaven. Now these disasters and strange phenomena are happening there, which is very scary.
At the end of March, a strong wind blowing from the west blew up the ancestral temple, tore the curtains, blew down the trees, made it impossible for drivers to walk, and destroyed the houses. These disasters actually affected the ancestral temple, which is really frightening.
In April, there was a solar eclipse at Shujingsu. The sun disappeared in an instant, and it was no different from the absence of the sun.
Ji and Wu belong to the middle palace, which is the king, and Hai represents water, which belongs to yin. It can also mean that the yin energy is too strong, and the responsibility lies with the harem.
For Wuji, it was a loss of the monarch's body, indicating that the royal family would be cut off from heirs, and the disaster would even affect the capital.
For Shujing, numerous catastrophes were concentrated, becoming larger and larger in scale and more frequent in frequency.
The disaster has taken shape and cannot be cured, so it is urgent and the harm is far-reaching. Such a fault is already obvious, how can it be ignored?
"Shangshu" says that when Emperor Gaozong held the Xi sacrifice, there were pheasants crowing.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
祖己曰： 惟先假王正厥事。  又曰： 虽休勿休，惟敬五刑，以成三德。
即饬椒房及掖庭耳。
今皇后有所疑，便不便，其条刺，使大长秋来白之。
吏拘于法，亦安足过？
盖矫枉者过直，古今同之。
且财币之省，特牛之祠，其于皇后，所以扶助德美，为华宠也。
咎根不除，灾变相袭，祖宗且不血食，何戴侯也！
传不云乎！ 以纳失之者鲜。
审皇后欲从其奢与？
朕亦当法孝武皇帝也，如此则甘泉、建章可复兴矣。
世俗岁殊，时变日化，遭事制宜，因时而移，旧之非者，何可放焉！
郡子之道，乐因循而重改作。
昔鲁人为长府，闵子骞曰： 仍旧贯如之何？何必改作！
盖恶之也。
《诗》云： 虽无老成人，尚有典刑，曾是莫听，大命以倾。
孝文皇帝，朕之师也。
皇太后，皇后成法也。
假使太后在彼时不如职，今见亲厚，又恶可以逾乎！
皇后其刻心秉德，毋违先后之制度，力谊勉行，称顺妇道，减省群事，谦约为右，其孝东宫，毋厥朔望，推诚永究，爰何不臧！
养名显行，以息众讠雚，垂则列妾，使有法焉。
皇后深惟毋忽！
translation: 
Zu Ji said: Only when a king corrects himself can he do his best. , and said that what you think is good is not necessarily good. Only by respecting the five punishments can you achieve the three virtues.
What he said was to rectify the palace and Yeting.
Now if there is something that the queen does not understand, she will analyze the disadvantages, write it down on the thorn board, and send Da Changqiu to report it to me.
If officials stick to the law, what's their fault?
It has been this way since ancient times when wrongdoing meets right.
Moreover, reducing costs and using bulls for sacrifice will help you achieve good character and gain honor for the queen.
If the root of the disaster is not removed, disasters will come one after another, and the ancestors will not be able to enjoy the sacrifices, let alone Dai Hou?
Didn’t it say so in the biography? There are too few people who can be frugal.
Does the Queen have to learn extravagant behavior?
I should also follow the example of Emperor Xiaowu, so that Ganquan Palace and Jianzhang Palace can be rebuilt.
The customs vary from year to year and change with the times. Everything should be adapted to the times and keep pace with the times. How can we imitate what was wrong in the past?
The way of a gentleman is to stick to the old system and not change easily.
When someone from the state of Lu was in charge of the governor's office, Min Ziqian said, "It's enough to stick to the old ways. Why change it?"
Probably just hate change.
"Poetry" says: Although there are no old ministers, there are still old laws and regulations, but if you don't follow the old laws, the country is in danger.
Emperor Xiaowen is an example for me to learn from.
The empress dowager is the standard that the queen abides by.
Even if the Queen Mother did not follow common sense in the past because she did not have her ambitions, and now she is being treated favorably by the Queen Mother, how can she go beyond the Queen Mother's system?
The queen should devote herself to practicing virtue and not violate the system of the previous queens. She should work hard, abide by women's ethics, save money, and put humility and economy first. To be filial to the Empress Dowager, the courtesy of meeting the emperor on the first day of the new year and the first day of the morning must not be abolished. If we continue to do this, what kind of bad things will happen!
Establish a good reputation and show off your good virtues, so as to calm the discussions of the people in the world, and let the law be spread in the harem so that the concubines can obey the law.
Please think deeply and don't take these things lightly.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
是时，大将军凤用事，威权尤盛。
其后，比三年日蚀，言事者颇归咎于凤矣。
而谷永等遂著之许氏，许氏自知为凤所不佑。
久之，皇后宠亦益衰，而后宫多新爱。
后姊平安刚侯夫人谒等为媚道祝诅后宫有身者王美人及凤等，事发觉，太后大怒，下吏考问，谒等诛死，许后坐废处昭台宫，亲属皆归故郡山阳，后弟子平恩侯旦就国。
凡立十四年而废，在昭台岁余，还徙长定宫。
后九年，上怜许氏，下诏曰： 盖闻仁不遗远，谊不忘亲。
前平安刚侯夫人谒坐大逆罪，家属幸蒙赦令，归故郡。
朕惟平恩戴侯，先帝外祖，魂神废弃，莫奉祭祀，念之未尝忘于心。
其还平恩侯旦及亲属在山阳郡者。 是岁，废后败。
先是，废后姊孊寡居，与定陵侯淳于长私通，因为之小妻。
translation: 
At that time, it was General Wang Feng who was in charge of the government and had the greatest power.
Later, there were food shortages for three consecutive years, and most of the people who came to remonstrate blamed Wang Feng.
But Gu Yong and others thought it was Queen Xu's fault. Queen Xu knew in her heart that Wang Feng would not help her.
After a while, Emperor Cheng's favor for the queen diminished, and many people in the harem were favored.
The queen's sister, Ping'an Ganghou's wife, Xu Ye, and others used benign ways to curse Wang Mei, Wang Feng, and others in the harem who were pregnant. When the incident was revealed, the queen mother was furious and threw these people into prison for torture. Xu Ye and others were executed. Queen Xu was convicted and deposed.
Empress Xu reigned for a total of fourteen years before being deposed. She lived in Zhaotai Palace for more than a year and then moved to Changding Palace.
Nine years later, Emperor Cheng took pity on the Xu family and issued an edict saying: It is said that benevolence does not forget those who are far away, and righteousness does not forget relatives.
Xu Ye, the wife of Ping'an Ganghou, had previously committed a crime of treason and injustice. Fortunately, her family was pardoned and returned to their place of origin.
I think that Marquis Ping'endai is the late emperor's grandfather. His soul has nowhere to live, and there is no one to keep vigil and offer sacrifices to him. I have always kept this incident in my heart and will never forget it.
He ordered Ping Enhou Xu Dan and Xu's relatives in Shanyang County to return to the capital.
This year, Xu Feihou died. At first, Xu Feihou's sister Xu Biao was widowed and living alone. She had an affair with Chun Yuchang, the Marquis of Dingling, and she became his concubine.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
长绐之曰： 我能白东宫，复立许后为左皇后。
废后因孊私赂遗长，数通书记相报谢。
长书有悖谩，发觉，天子使廷尉孔光持节赐废后药，自杀，葬延陵交道厩西。
孝成班婕妤。帝初即位选入后宫。
始为少使，蛾而大幸，为婕妤，居增成舍，再就馆，有男，数月失之。
成帝游于后庭，尝欲与婕妤同辇载，婕妤辞曰： 观古图画，贤圣之君皆有名臣在侧，三代末主乃有嬖女，今欲同辇，得无近似之乎？
上善其言而止。
太后闻之，喜曰： 古有樊姬，今有班婕妤。
婕妤诵《诗》及《窃窕》、《德象》、《女师》之篇。
每进见上疏，依则古礼。
自鸿嘉后，上稍隆于内宠。
婕妤进侍者李平，平得幸，立为婕妤。
上曰： 始卫皇后亦从微起。
乃赐平姓曰卫，所谓卫婕妤也。
其后，赵飞燕姊弟亦从自微贱兴，逾越礼制，浸盛于前。
班婕妤及许皇后皆失宠，稀复进见。
鸿嘉三年，赵飞燕谮告许皇后、班婕妤挟媚道，祝诅后宫，詈及主上。
许皇后坐废。
translation: 
Chunyu Chang lied to her and said: I can report to the Queen Mother and re-establish Queen Xu as Queen Zuo.
After Xu was abolished, he secretly bribed Chun Yuchang through Aunt Xu, and exchanged letters to thank each other many times.
Chunyu Chang made rude remarks in a letter and was reported. Emperor Cheng sent his court official Kong Guang to give Xu Feihou poison with a talisman. She had no choice but to commit suicide and was buried to the west of the Yanling Road Stables.
Emperor Xiaocheng's classmate was selected into the harem when Emperor Cheng just ascended the throne.
He started as a young envoy, but soon became favored by Emperor Cheng. He was granted the title of Jiantun and lived in Zengchengshe. He gave birth twice in the outer house, giving birth to a boy, who died a few months later.
When Emperor Cheng was playing in the harem, he once planned to ride in a chariot with Ban Shizuo. Ban Tuzai refused and said: "Looking at the pictures from ancient times, the wise monarchs are sitting next to famous ministers. Only the kings of the three generations of subjugation will have favored women. If your majesty rides in the chariot with me now, won't you be similar to those monarchs who have subjugated their countries?"
Emperor Cheng thought what she said made sense, so he gave up.
When the Queen Mother heard about this, she said happily: "In ancient times, there was Fan Ji, and now there is Ban Shidan."
Ban Jiantan recited "The Book of Songs" and "Youyao", "Dexiang", "Female Master" and other articles.
Every time you are summoned by Emperor Cheng or have a speech, you must act in accordance with ancient etiquette.
Since the Hongjia period, the number of concubines favored by Emperor Cheng gradually increased.
Ban nephew offered his maid Li Pingjin to Emperor Cheng. Li Ping was favored and named Jieyu.
Emperor Cheng said: In the past, Queen Wei also came from a humble background.
He gave Li Ping the surname Wei, which is also the so-called Wei envoy.
Later, the Zhao Feiyan sisters also rose from a humble position and transcended etiquette to a greater extent than before.
Both Ban Jianzi and Queen Xu fell out of favor and were rarely summoned by Emperor Cheng.
In the third year of Hongjia, Zhao Feiyan falsely accused Empress Xu and Ban Jianzi of behaving like women, cursed the harem, and even cursed the emperor.
Queen Xu was offended and deposed.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
孝问班婕妤，婕妤对曰： 妾闻 死生有命，富贵在天。 修正尚未蒙福，为邪欲以何望？
使鬼神有知，不受不臣之诉；如其无知，诉之何益？故不为也。
上善其对，怜悯之，赐黄金百斤。
赵氏姊弟骄妒，婕妤恐久见危，求共养太后长信宫，上许焉。
婕妤退处东宫，作赋自伤悼，其辞曰：
承祖考之遗德兮，何性命之淑灵，登薄躯于宫阙兮，充下陈于后庭。
蒙圣皇之渥惠兮，当日月之盛明，扬光烈之翕赫兮，奉隆宠于增成。
既过幸于非位兮，窃庶几乎嘉时，每寤寐而累息兮，申佩离以自思，陈女图以镜监兮，顾女史而问诗。
悲晨妇之作戒兮，哀褒、阎之为邮；美皇、英之女虞兮，荣任、姒之母周。
虽愚陋其靡及兮，敢舍心而忘兹？
translation: 
When interrogating Ban Jianzi, she replied: I heard that life and death are determined by destiny, wealth is in heaven, and being kind and upright has not been blessed, so what do you want to gain by doing these evil things?
If the ghosts and gods are aware, they will not accept this kind of prayer that loses the courtesy of being a minister; if the ghosts and gods are ignorant, it is useless to pray to them, so I will not do this kind of thing.
Emperor Cheng thought what she said was reasonable and felt pity for her, so he rewarded her with one hundred catties of gold.
The Zhao sisters were arrogant and jealous, and Ban Jiandan was afraid that they would harm her over time, so he requested to serve the Queen Mother in Changxin Palace, and Emperor Cheng agreed.
Ban Jiantun retired to the Cambodian palace and wrote a poem lamenting his fate. His words said:
Inheriting the virtues of my ancestors, my character is upright and kind, and my humble body has allowed me to enter the palace. I live in the harem.
Thanks to the great love of the Holy One, the bright light of the sun and moon shines on me. How prosperous the emperor's favor is. I am favored in Zengchengshe.
Since I was favored and in a high position, I certainly caught up with the good times. I often woke up from my dreams and sighed. I was caressing Li and I fell into deep thought. Chen Lienu tried to warn myself, and I visited the female historian to study poetry.
I lamented that women have brought harm to the country and learned from it. I lamented that Guo Si and Yan's wives were guilty of serious sins. They praised Ehuang and Nvying as the wives of Yu and Shun. They praised Tairen and Taisi's mother Yi Zongzhou.
Although my qualifications are too poor to match, why should I give up on diligent self-study?


Chunk 10: 
original: 
历年岁而悼惧兮，闵蕃华之不滋。
痛阳禄与柘馆兮，仍襁褓而离灾，岂妾人之殃咎兮？
将天命之不可求。
白日忽已移光兮，遂暗莫而昧幽，犹被覆载之厚德兮，不废捐于罪邮。
奉共养于东宫兮，托长信之末流，共洒扫于帷幄兮，永终死以为期。
愿归骨于山足兮，依松柏之余休。
重曰： 潜玄官兮幽以清，应门闭兮禁闼扃。
华殿尘兮玉阶菭，中庭萋兮绿草生。
广室阴兮帷幄暗，房栊虚兮风泠泠。
感帷裳兮发红罗，纷綷縩兮纨素声。
神眇眇兮密靓处，君不御兮谁为荣？
俯视兮丹墀，思君兮履綦。
仰视兮云屋，双涕兮横流。
顾左右兮和颜，酌羽觞兮销忧。
惟人生兮一世，忽一过兮若浮。
已独享兮高明，处生民兮极休。勉虞精兮极乐，与福禄兮无期。《绿衣》兮《白华》，自古兮有之。
translation: 
As time goes by, I feel helpless and sad, and the poor flowers wither and fade away.
That Yanglu and Zheguan made me heartbroken. Poor Jiaoer suffered misfortune in her infancy. Am I destined to suffer this disaster?
I just sigh that destiny cannot be forced.
The sun has lost its light, the world is dim and dim, but it still receives the kindness of heaven and earth, and its sinful body has not been abandoned.
I serve the Queen Mother with respect and caution. I live at the end of Changxin Palace and sweep the courtyard day and night. I have no other thoughts but to wait for my death.
I wish I could be buried at the foot of the mountain, leaning on the shade of pines and cypresses.
Expressing his emotions again, he said: The palace is so lonely and dark and cold, the door is closed and the boudoir is locked.
The palace is covered in dust, the jade steps are covered with moss, and the courtyard is deserted and overgrown with green grass.
The place where I live is gloomy and dark, and the cool breeze blows through the windows.
The clothes are flowing with the wind, and the silk is fluttering lightly, and the handsome man has a voice, which is like telling my heart.
In a secluded place, I concentrate my attention and look far away. I am not proud of you because I can't reach you.
Leaning down and looking down, the mountains are as tall as before, and the traces are still there, missing the king.
I look up at the clouds, the sky is dark, and I exchange tears with each other, my heart is sad.
Looking around, I forced myself to look good for pleasure, and drank wine from my wine glass to relieve my worries.
Life is only once in this world, but it is fleeting like duckweed.
Wealth, honor, and favor have been obtained, but how can the common people be so happy? It’s a pleasure to work hard, but if you are like this in this life, how can you seek happiness? Concubines usurp the legitimate throne all the time, "green clothes" and "white flowers" have existed since ancient times.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
至成帝崩，婕妤充奉园陵，薨，因葬园中。
孝成赵皇后，本长安宫人。
初生时，父母不举，三日不死，乃收养之。
及壮，属阳阿主家，学歌舞，号曰飞燕。
成帝尝微行出。
过阳阿主，作乐，上见飞燕而说之，召入宫，大幸。
有女弟复召入，俱为婕妤，贵倾后宫。
许后之废也，上欲立赵婕妤。
皇太后嫌其所出微甚，难之。
太后姊子淳于长为侍中，数往来传语，得太后指，上立封赵婕妤父临为成阳侯。
后月余，乃立婕妤为皇后。
追以长前白罢昌陵功，封为定陵侯。
皇后既立，后宽少衰，而弟绝幸，为昭仪。
居昭阳舍，其中庭彤朱，而殿上髤漆，切皆铜沓黄金涂，白玉阶，壁带往往为黄金釭，函蓝田璧，明珠、翠羽饰之，自后宫未尝有焉。
姊弟颛宠十余年，卒皆无子。
末年，定陶王来朝，王祖母傅太后私赂遗赵皇后、昭仪，定陶王竟为太子。
translation: 
After the death of Emperor Cheng, Ban Jianzi was sent to guard the cemetery, where she was buried after her death.
Empress Zhao of Emperor Xiaocheng was originally a palace official in Chang'an.
When she was first born, her parents didn't want to feed her, but after throwing her away for three days, she didn't die, so they took her home and raised her.
When she grew up, she went to Princess Yang's house to learn singing and dancing, and was called Feiyan.
Emperor Cheng once left the palace incognito and visited Princess Yang'a. The princess made people sing and dance for her.
Emperor Cheng liked Zhao Feiyan very much when he saw her, so he invited her to the palace, where she was extremely favored.
Feiyan had a younger sister who was also summoned to the palace. Both sisters were named disciples, and their status was higher than that of the entire harem.
After Queen Xu was deposed, the emperor planned to appoint Zhao Tudan as the queen.
The empress dowager thought she was of low origin and refused to agree.
Chunyu, the son of the Queen Mother's sister, wrote poems and sent messages to and from him many times. Emperor Cheng understood the Queen Mother's thoughts and made Zhao Lin, the father of Zhao Nephew, the Marquis of Chengyang.
More than a month later, Zhao Tudan was appointed queen.
He also recalled Chunyu Chang's contribution to the construction of Changling, and was granted the title of Marquis of Dingling.
After Zhao Feiyan was appointed queen, she was no longer so favored, but her sister was the most favored and was named Zhaoyi.
Living in Zhaoyang House, the courtyard is decorated with red, the hall is painted with two layers of paint, the steps are made of copper, coated with a layer of gold, and the steps are made of white marble. The wall strips are often made of gold and decorated with blue field jade, pearls, and green feathers. The entire harem has never been so luxurious.
The Zhao sisters have been doting on her for more than ten years, but they have never had children.
In the last years of Emperor Cheng's reign, King Dingtao came to pay homage. King Dingtao's grandmother, the Queen Mother Fu, secretly bribed Queen Zhao and Zhao Zhaoyi, and King Dingtao was finally appointed as the crown prince.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
明年春，成帝崩。
帝素强，无疾病。
是时，楚思王衍、梁王立来朝，明旦当辞去，上宿供张白虎殿。
又欲拜左将军孔光为丞相，已刻侯印书赞。
昏夜平善，乡晨，傅裤袜欲起，因失衣，不能言，昼漏上十刻而崩。
民间归罪赵昭仪，皇太后诏大司马莽、丞相大司空曰： 皇帝暴崩，群众讠雚哗怪之。
掖庭令辅等在后庭左右，侍燕迫近，杂与御史、丞相、廷尉治问皇帝起居发病状。
赵昭仪自杀。
哀帝既立，尊赵皇后为皇太后，封太后弟侍中驸马都尉钦为新成侯。
赵氏侯者凡二人。
后数月，司隶解光奏言：
臣闻许美人及故中宫史曹宫皆御幸孝成皇帝，产子，子隐不见。
translation: 
In the spring of the next year, Emperor Cheng died.
Emperor Cheng was usually in good health and had no illnesses.
At this time, King Liu Yan of Chu Si and King Liu Li of Liang came to see him. They had to leave early the next morning, so Emperor Cheng arranged a curtain and stayed in the White Tiger Palace.
He also plans to make Kong Guang, the general of the left, prime minister, and the official seal and official announcement have been prepared.
After a night of nothing, I woke up in the morning, put on my pantyhose, and tried to sit up, but my clothes suddenly fell off and I was speechless. At ten quarters of the day, Emperor Cheng died.
The people believed that Zhao Zhaoyi was guilty, and the Empress Dowager issued an edict to the Grand Sima Wang Mang and the Prime Minister Da Sikong, saying: The emperor suddenly died, and people were talking about it and they didn't know what was going on.
Yeting Lingfu and others waited on the emperor's daily life near the harem, and asked them to inquire about the emperor's daily life and illness together with the censor, prime minister, and court officials.
Zhao Zhaoyi committed suicide.
After Emperor Ai ascended the throne, he honored Empress Zhao as the Empress Dowager, and granted the title of Xinchenghou to the Empress Dowager's younger brother, Prince Consort Zhao Qin.
There are two people in the Zhao family who have been granted the title of marquis.
A few months later, Sili Jieguang reported:
I heard that both Xu Mei and Cao Gong, the original Zhonggong Shi, were favored by Emperor Xiaocheng and gave birth to sons, but the children disappeared.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
臣遣从事掾业、史望验问知状者掖庭狱丞籍武，故中黄门王舜、吴恭、靳严，官婢曹晓、道房、张弃，故赵昭仪御者于客子、王偏、臧兼等，皆曰宫即晓子女，前属中宫，为学事史，通《诗》，授皇后。
房与宫对食，元延元年中宫语房曰： 陛下幸宫。
后数月，晓入殿中，见宫腹大，问宫。
宫曰： 御幸有身。
其十月中，宫乳掖庭牛官令舍，有婢六人，中黄门田客持诏记，盛绿绨方底，封御史中丞印，予武曰： 取牛官令舍妇人新产儿，婢六人，尽置暴室狱，毋问儿男女，谁儿也！
武迎置狱，宫曰： 善臧我儿胞，丞知是何等儿也！
后三日，客持诏记与武，问： 儿死未？
手书对牍背。
武即书对： 儿见在，未死。
有顷，客出曰： 上与昭仪大怒，奈何不杀？
武叩头啼曰： 不杀儿，自知当死；杀之，亦死！
即因客奏封事，曰： 陛下未有继嗣，子无贵贱，唯留意！
奏入，客复持诏记予武曰： 今夜漏上五刻，持儿与舜，会东交掖门。
武因问客： 陛下得武书，意何如？
曰： 瞠也。
武以儿付舜。
舜受诏，内儿殿中，为择乳母，告 善养儿，且有赏。
translation: 
We sent the Yeting jailer Ji Wu who was engaged in the business and Shi Wang to investigate and know the inside story. The former kings of Zhonghuangmen, Shun, Wu Gong, and Jin Yan, the official maids Cao Xiao, Daofang, and Zhang Qi, and the former Zhao Zhaoyi servants Yu Kezi, Wang Pian, Zang Jian, and others all said that Cao Gong was Cao Xiao's daughter.
In the first year of Yuan Yan, Cao Gong and Tao Fang sat face to face to eat together, and said to Tao Fang: Your Majesty, you are lucky to have me.
A few months later, Cao Xiao went to the palace and saw that Cao Gong was pregnant, so he asked her.
Cao Gong said: I am lucky enough to be pregnant.
In October of that year, Cao Gong gave birth to a boy in Niuguan Lingshe, Yeting, and sent six maids to serve him. The Tianke from Zhonghuang Gate took an edict, put it in a green silk book bag, sealed it with the big seal of the censor Zhongcheng, handed it to Jiwu and said: "Take the newly born child of the woman wrapped in Niu Guanling's house, and put them all into the violent room together with the six maids. Don't ask whether the child is a boy or a girl, or whose child it is."
Jiwu locked them in a violent room. Cao Gong said: You must keep my son's afterbirth carefully. Do you know what kind of child he is?
Three days later, Tian Ke gave Jiwu an edict and asked, "Is the child dead?"
Written on the back of the wooden tablet.
Ji Wu wrote: The child is still alive, not dead.
After a while, Tian Ke came out and said: The emperor and Zhao Zhaoyi are furious, why don't they kill him?
Ji Wu kowtowed and cried and said: If you don't kill this child, you know it should be a death penalty; if you kill him, it will only be a death!
He reported to the emperor through Tian Ke, saying: Your Majesty has no heirs. Regardless of his high or low birth, I hope you will keep your son!
Tian Ke went in to report and gave an edict to Ji Wu, saying: "At five o'clock tonight, give the child to Wang Shun and meet at Dongjiao Yemen."
Ji Wu asked Tian Ke: "How did your Majesty react when he saw my memorial?"
Tian Ke replied: He was in a daze.
Ji Wu handed the child to Wang Shun.
Wang Shun received Shao's order, took the child into the palace, selected a wet nurse for him, and told her that if she took good care of the child, she would be rewarded.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
毋令漏泄！
舜择弃为乳母，时儿生八九日。
后三日，客复持诏记，封如前予武，中有封小绿箧，记曰： 告武以箧中物书予狱中妇人，武自临饮之。
武发箧中有裹药二枚，赫蹄书，曰： 告伟能：努力饮此药，不可复入。
女自知之！
伟能即宫。
宫读书已，曰： 果也，欲姊弟擅天下！
我儿男也，额上有壮发，类孝元皇帝。
今儿安在？
危杀之矣！
奈何令长信得闻之？
宫饮药死。
后宫婢六人召入，出语武曰： 昭仪言 女无过。
宁自杀邪，若外家也？
我曹言愿自杀。
即自缪死。
武皆表奏状。
弃所养儿十一日，宫长李南以诏书取儿去，不知所置。
许美人前在上林涿沐馆，数召入饰室中若舍，一岁再三召，留数月或半岁御幸。
元延二年怀子，其十一月乳。
translation: 
Don't let this out!
Wang Shun chose Zhang Qi to be the wet nurse, when the child was only eight or nine days old.
Three days later, Tian Ke brought the edict again, sealed it as before, and gave it to Jiwu. There was a small green basket wrapped in it. The edict said: Jiwu gave the contents and the letter in the basket to the woman in prison, and Jiwu went to eat them in person.
Ji Wu opened the small basket, and there were two pills wrapped in it, and a thin piece of yellow paper, which read: Wei Neng: Try to take these pills, and don't come in again.
You understand it yourself.
Wei Neng is Cao Gong.
After Cao Gong read the letter, he said: It's true, these sisters want to control the world!
My child is a boy with hair growing under his forehead, like Emperor Xiaoyuan.
Where is the child now?
He must have been killed by them!
How can we let the Queen Mother know that something is going on?
Cao Gong took pills and died.
Later, six maids from Cao Palace were also summoned into the palace. When they came out, they told Ji Wu: Zhaoyi said you are not guilty.
Are you willing to commit suicide, or go to a foreign home and die?
We said we were willing to commit suicide.
He hanged himself to death.
Jiwu reported all these situations one by one.
Zhang Qi nursed the child for eleven days. The palace chief, Li Nan, took the child away with an edict and placed him somewhere unknown.
Xu Meiren was originally in the Shanglin Zhuomu Pavilion, and was summoned by the emperor to the decoration room many times. She was summoned several times a year, and she stayed for several months or half a year, and was favored by the emperor.
She became pregnant in the second year of Yuanyan and gave birth to a child in November.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
诏使严持乳医及五种和药丸三，送美人所。
后客子、偏、兼闻昭仪谓成帝曰： 常给我言从中宫来，即从中宫来，许美人儿何从生中？
许氏竟当复立邪！
怼，以手自捣，以头击壁户柱，从床上自投地，啼泣不肯食，曰： 今当安置我，欲归耳！
帝曰： 今故告之，反怒为！
殊不可晓也。
帝亦不食。
昭仪曰： 陛下自知是，不食为何？
陛下常自言 约不负女 ，今美人有子，竟负约，谓何？
帝曰： 约以赵氏，故不立许氏。
使天下无出赵氏上者，毋忧也！
后诏使严持绿囊书予许美人，告严曰： 美人当有以予女，受来，置饰室中帘南。
美人以苇箧一合盛所生儿，缄封，及绿囊报书予严。
严持箧书，置饰室帘南去。
translation: 
Emperor Cheng issued an edict for Jin Yan to take the obstetrician and gynecologist and three pills made of five kinds of medicine to Xu Meiren's residence.
Later, Yu Kezi, Wang Pian, and Zang Jian heard Zhaoyi say to Emperor Cheng: You often lie to me and say that you are from the Zhonggong. If you are from the Zhonggong, where did Xu Meiru's child come from?
The Xu family is actually on the rise again!
She was so angry that she beat herself with her hands, banged her head against the walls and pillars, and jumped from the bed to the ground. She cried and refused to eat, saying: The emperor should arrange my affairs now, I want to go back!
Emperor Cheng said: I told you specifically, but you were furious.
I really shouldn't have told you.
Emperor Cheng also refused to eat.
Zhaoyi said: Your Majesty thinks you have done nothing wrong, so why don't you eat?
Your Majesty often said that I swore to live up to you. Now that the beauty has given birth to a son, you still betrayed your oath. What can you say?
Emperor Cheng said: I swore to establish the Zhao family, so I abolished the Xu family.
As long as there is no one with a higher status than Zhao in the world, you don't have to worry about these.
Later, Emperor Cheng issued an edict to Jin Yan to put the edict in a green book bag and bring it to Xu Meiru. He also told Jin Yan: "The beauty will definitely give you something. Take it back and put it south of the curtain of the decoration room."
The beauty put the child in a straw basket, tied it up with a rope, and handed it to Jin Yan together with the green book bag containing the reply letter.
Jin Yan took the straw basket and the letter and put them down on the south side of the curtain of the decoration room.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
帝与昭仪坐，使客子解箧缄。
未已，帝使客子、偏、兼皆出，自闭户，独与昭仪在。
须臾开户，呼客子、偏、兼，使缄封箧及绿绨方底，推置屏风东。
恭受诏，持箧方底予武，皆封以御史中丞印，曰： 告武：箧中有死儿，埋屏处，勿令人知。
武穿狱楼垣下为坎，埋其中。
故长定许贵人及故成都、平阿侯家婢王业、任孋、公孙习前免为庶人，诏召入，属昭仪为私婢。
成帝崩，未幸梓宫，仓卒悲哀之时，昭仪自知罪恶大，知业等故许氏、王氏婢，恐事泄，而以大婢羊子等赐予业等各且十人，以尉其意，属 无道我家过失。
元延二年五月，故掖庭令吾丘遵谓武曰： 掖庭丞吏以下皆与昭仪合通，无可与语者，独欲与武有所言。
translation: 
Emperor Cheng and Zhaoyi sat there and asked Yu Kezi to untie the rope from the basket.
Before the solution was finished, Emperor Cheng asked Yu Kezi, Wang Pian, and Zang Jian to go out, closed the door himself, and stayed alone with Zhaoyi in Baomian.
After a while, he opened the door, called Yu Kezi, Wang Pian, and Zang Jian, and asked them to tie the straw basket and book bag with ropes and put them on the east side of the screen.
Wu Gong accepted Shao's order and gave Jiwu a straw basket and book bag, which were sealed with the big seal of Yushi Zhongcheng, and said: Jiwu: There is a dead child wrapped in a straw basket. Bury it in a secluded place. Don't let others know.
Jiwu dug a hole under the prison wall and buried those things in the wrapper.
The former Chang Dingxu nobleman and the maids Wang Ye, Ren Hui and Gongsun Xi of the former Chengdu Marquis and Ping'ahou families were deposed as commoners before. Shao Shu summoned them into the palace and became Zhaoyi's personal maids.
Emperor Cheng died before he was enthroned. When the incident suddenly occurred and the whole country was mourning, Zhaoyi knew that the crime was extremely heinous, and also knew that Wang Ye and others were originally maids of the Xu and Wang families. She was afraid that the matter would be leaked, so she gave the eldest girl Yangzi and others to Wang Ye and others, ten each, to comfort them and told them not to tell them about their faults.
In May of the second year of Yuan Yan, Wu Qiu Zun, the original order of Ye Ting, said to Ji Wu: All the officials in Ye Ting from the prime minister on down are colluding with Zhaoyi. I can't talk to them, I can only talk to you from my heart.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
我无子，武有子，是家轻族人，得无不敢乎？
掖庭中御幸生子者辄死，又饮药伤堕者无数，欲与武共言之大臣，票骑将军贪耆钱，不足计事，奈何令长信得闻之？
遵后病困，谓武： 今我已死，前所语事，武不能独为也，慎语！
皆在今年四月丙辰赦令前。
臣谨案永光三年男子忠等发长陵傅夫人冢。
事更大赦，孝元皇帝下诏曰： 此朕不当所得赦也。
穷治，尽伏辜，天下以为当。
鲁严公夫人杀世子，齐桓召而诛焉，《春秋》予之。
赵昭仪倾乱圣朝，亲灭继嗣，家属当伏天诛。
前平安刚侯夫人谒坐大逆，同产当坐，以蒙赦令，归故郡。
今昭仪所犯尤悖逆，罪重于谒，而同产亲属皆在尊贵之位，迫近帏幄，群下寒心，非所以惩恶崇谊示四方也。
请事穷竟，丞相以下议正法。
哀帝于是免新成侯赵钦、钦兄子成阳侯，皆为庶人，将家属徙辽西郡。
时议郎耿育上疏言：
臣闻继嗣失统，废適立庶，圣人法禁，古今至戒。
translation: 
I don’t have any children, but you have children. I’m worried that a disaster will affect the whole family, so you probably don’t dare to say anything, right?
Ye Ting said that all those who gave birth to sons by the emperor's concubine would die, and many people took medicine to have abortions. I want to explain these things to the ministers together with you. The Hussar General is greedy for money and cannot discuss matters with him. But how can the Queen Mother know?
Wu Qiu Zun later became seriously ill, so he said to Ji Wu: Now that I'm going to die, you can't do what you said before, so don't let it out.
These things all happened before Bingchen issued the amnesty order in April this year.
I carefully investigated, and in the third year of Yongguang's reign, Men Zhong and others excavated the tomb of Mrs. Fu in Changling.
Just in time for the general amnesty, Emperor Xiaoyuan issued the Shao Shu and said: I cannot forgive this matter.
So after repeated investigations, those people all surrendered to the law, and everyone in the world thought that this was right.
When Duke Yan of Lu murdered the crown prince of Lu, Duke Huan of Qi summoned her to kill her. The Spring and Autumn Annals approved of this behavior.
Zhao Zhaoyi brought trouble to the court and killed the prince, and her family should also be severely punished.
Previously, Xu Ye, the wife of Ping'an Ganghou, committed treason and injustice. The family should also be punished because they were able to return to their place of origin in time for the amnesty.
Now Zhaoyi has committed a greater crime than Xu Ye, but her relatives are all in a distinguished position around the emperor, which makes us ministers feel chilly. This cannot punish the crime and promote etiquette and justice to show the world.
I request your Majesty to investigate this matter to the end and allow officials below the Prime Minister to discuss and make decisions to rectify the law.
Emperor Ai deposed Xinchenghou Zhao Qin and Zhao Qin's brother's son Chengyanghou Zhao Xin as marquises, demoted them to common people, and moved their families to Liaoxi County.
At this time, Yilang Gengyu said:
I heard that if we lose the program in carrying on the family line, we will abolish the direct descendants and establish concubines. Saints have always forbidden this, and we have taken it as a warning throughout the ages.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
然大怕见历知適，逡循固让，委身吴粤，权变所设，不计常法，致位王季，以崇圣嗣，卒有天下，子孙承业，七八百载，功冠三王，道德最备，是以尊号追及大王。
故世必有非常之变，然后乃有非常之谋。
孝成皇帝自知继嗣不以时立，念虽末有皇子，万岁之后未能持国，权柄之重，制于女主，女主骄盛则耆欲无极，少主幼弱则大臣不使，世无周公抱负之辅，恐危社稷，倾乱天下。
知陛下有贤圣通明之德，仁孝子爱之恩，怀独见之明，内断于身，故废后宫就馆之渐，绝微嗣祸乱之根，乃欲致位陛下以安宗庙。
translation: 
But the uncle knew that his father Gu Gong betrayed his father with the intention of passing the throne to his younger brother Ji Li. He repeatedly gave in, and then left Wu and Guangdong. This was due to adapting to circumstances, not sticking to the usual rules, and giving up the throne to Wang Ji in order to respect the descendants of the sage. Finally, he won the world. His descendants inherited the great cause, which lasted for seven or eight hundred years. His achievements exceeded those of the three kings, and his morals were the highest. Therefore, he was given the title of Great King.
Therefore, there must be extraordinary changes in the world, and then there are extraordinary strategies.
Emperor Xiaocheng knew that he could not have an heir at the right time. He also considered that even if he had a prince in his later years, he would not be able to take charge of the government after his death. The power of the country would be in the hands of the heroine. If the heroine is arrogant and arrogant, she will do anything. The young monarch is young and weak, and the ministers will not obey him. If there is no ambition like Zhou Gong in the world to assist the king, I am afraid it will harm the country and cause chaos in the world.
Knowing that Your Majesty possesses the virtues of wisdom, wisdom, benevolence, filial piety and philanthropy, has unique insights and is able to make decisions on major issues, so he can prevent the harem from becoming a ruler and eliminate the source of trouble caused by the lack of heirs, so he planned to pass the throne to Your Majesty to stabilize the world.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
愚臣既不能深援安危，定金匮之计，又不知推演圣德，述先帝之志，乃反覆校省内，暴露私燕，诬污先帝倾惑之过，成结宠妾妒媚之诛，甚失贤圣远见之明，逆负先帝忧国之意。
夫论大德不拘俗，立大功不合众，此乃孝成皇帝至思所以万万于众臣，陛下圣德盛茂所以符合于皇天也，岂当世庸庸斗筲之臣所能及哉！
且褒广将顺君父之美，匡救销灭既往之过，古今通义也。
事不当时固争，防祸于未然，各随指阿从，以求容媚，晏驾之后，尊号已定，万事已讫，乃探追不及之事，讦扬幽昧之过，此臣所深痛也！
愿下有司议，即如臣言，宜宣布天下，使咸哓知先帝圣意所起。
不然，空使谤议上及山陵，下流后世，远闻百蛮，近布海内，甚非先帝托后之意也。
盖孝子善述父之志，善成人之事，唯陛下省察！
translation: 
The ignorant ministers were unable to clearly see the dangers and propose long-term strategies, nor did they know how to carry forward His Majesty's virtues and express the late Emperor's wishes. Instead, they kept interrogating the inner court, exposed the private affairs of the royal family's banquets to the world, falsely accused the late Emperor of being deceived by women, and fabricated the jealousy and flattery of his concubines. They completely violated the late emperor's sage and foresight, and failed to live up to the late emperor's original intention of caring for the country and the people.
Those who pay attention to great virtues do not need to stick to worldly opinions. Those who have achieved great merits must have their own ideas. This is why Emperor Xiaocheng’s thinking is far better than that of other ministers. This is the reason why His Majesty’s holy virtue is in line with heaven. How can these mediocre and short-sighted ministers in the world understand it?
Moreover, the virtues of the king and father should be praised and promoted, and past mistakes should be corrected and eliminated. This is a general rule throughout the ages.
When encountering something, you cannot argue with reason at the time to nip it in the bud. Instead, you flatter your will in order to avoid disobeying it, and you flatter yourself to seek favor. After the death of the late emperor, after the title has been determined and all the affairs have been completed, you can pursue those unknown past events and pursue those hidden and difficult-to-understand faults. This is the behavior I hate the most.
I hope that these words will be discussed by the minister. If you agree with my views, they should be made public to the world, so that people can understand the late emperor's good intentions.
Otherwise, those slanderous words will be allowed to implicate the emperor and spread to later generations, as far away as hundreds of barbarians and as close as domestic, no one knows about it, and everyone is aware of it, which completely deviates from the original intention of the late emperor to entrust the affairs of the future.
A filial son is good at tracing his father's aspirations and accomplishing other people's careers. I hope your Majesty will understand!


Chunk 20: 
original: 
哀帝为太子，亦颇得赵太后力，遂不竟其事。
傅太后恩赵太后，赵太后亦归心，故成帝母及王氏皆怨之。
哀帝崩，王莽白太后诏有司曰： 前皇太后与昭仪俱侍帷幄，姊弟专宠锢寝，执贼乱之谋，残灭继嗣以危宗庙，悖天犯祖，无为天下母之义。
贬皇太后为孝成皇后，徙居北宫。
后月余，复下诏曰： 皇后自知罪恶深大，朝请希阔，失妇道，无共养之礼，而有狼虎之毒，宗室所怨，海内之仇也，而尚在小君之位，诚非皇天之心。
夫小不忍乱大谋，恩之所不能已者义之所割也。今废皇后为庶人，就其园。
是日自杀。
立十六年而诛。
先是，有童谣曰： 燕燕，尾涏々，张公子，时相见。
translation: 
Emperor Ai was appointed as the crown prince, and the Empress Dowager Zhao also made a lot of efforts, so Emperor Ai no longer pursued the matter.
Empress Dowager Fu was grateful for Empress Dowager Zhao's kindness, and Empress Dowager Zhao was also grateful to her from the bottom of her heart. Therefore, Emperor Cheng's mother and the Wang family were very resentful.
After the death of Emperor Ai, Wang Mang reported to the Empress Dowager, who went down to Shao and told Yousi: Previously, the Empress Dowager and Zhaoyi served the emperor together. The two sisters used vicious plots to kill the prince, harmed the ancestral temple and the country, violated the destiny, and betrayed the late emperor. They are not worthy of being the mother of the world.
The empress dowager was demoted to empress Xiaocheng and moved to the North Palace.
More than a month later, he went to Shao again and said: The queen knows that she has committed a heinous crime. She rarely pays homage to the queen mother. She is unbecoming of a woman and has no etiquette for worshiping and supporting her. However, she is as vicious as a tiger or a wolf. She is resented by the clan and is the enemy of the country. However, she still occupies the position of the emperor's wife. This is indeed not in line with God's original intention.
A small impatience will mess up a big plan. He can't forget his kindness, so he ends his personal kindness with justice. Now he deposes the queen as a commoner and lives in her cemetery.
On the same day, Queen Xiaocheng committed suicide.
She reigned for a total of sixteen years.
At first there was a nursery rhyme that said: Swallows, swallows, with bare tails, Mr. Zhang, we see each other from time to time.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
木门仓琅根，燕飞来，啄皇孙。
皇孙死，燕啄矢。
成帝每微行出，常与张放俱，而称富平侯家，故曰张公子。
仓琅根，宫门铜鍰也。
孝元傅昭仪，哀帝祖母也。
父河内温人，蚤卒，母更嫁为魏郡郑翁妻，生男惲。
昭仪少为上官太后才人，自元帝为太子，得进幸。
元帝即位，立为婕妤，甚有宠。
为人有材略，善事人，下至宫人左右，饮酒酹地，皆祝延之。
产一男一女，女为平都公主，男为定陶恭王。
恭王有材艺，尤爱于上。
元帝既重傅婕妤，及冯婕妤亦幸，生中山孝王，上欲殊之于后宫，以二人皆有子为王，上尚在，未得称太后，乃更号曰昭仪，赐以印绶，在婕妤上。
昭其仪，尊之也。
translation: 
The palace gate is fortified, the jade rings are clanging, and swallows fly in to peck and kill the emperor's grandson.
The emperor's grandson is dead, and the swallows peck at the arrows.
Every time Emperor Cheng left the palace incognito, he would often be with Zhang Fang, claiming to be from the Hou family of Fuping, so he was called Mr. Zhang.
Canglanggen is the copper ring of the palace gate.
Fu Zhaoyi of Emperor Xiaoyuan was the grandmother of Emperor Ai.
Her father was from Wen, Hanoi, and died very early. Her mother remarried to Zheng Weng of Wei County and gave birth to her son Zheng Tan.
When Zhaoyi was young, she was a talented empress dowager of Shangguan. Since Emperor Yuan appointed her as a prince, she has been blessed with advancement.
After Emperor Yuan came to the throne, he appointed her as a concubine, and she was very favored.
Fu Zhaoyi was talented and strategic, and was good at getting along with others. Even to the palace people around her, whenever she was drinking, she would spill wine on the floor to pray for their longevity.
She gave birth to a son and a daughter. The daughter was named Princess Pingdu and the son was named Prince Gong of Dingtao.
Prince Gong was very versatile and was especially loved by Emperor Yuan.
Emperor Yuan valued Fu Jianzi, and when Feng Jiudian was also favored and gave birth to Prince Xiao of Zhongshan, Emperor Yuan planned to give them a special status in the harem, because both of them had sons who were named kings, but the emperor was still there and could not be called queen mothers. Emperor Yuan added the title of Zhaoyi, rewarded the seal and ribbon, and placed her position above Jianzi.
Zhaoqiyi shows respect for them.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
至成、哀时，赵昭仪、董昭仪皆无子，犹称焉。
元帝崩，傅昭仪随王归国，称定陶太后。
后十年，恭王薨，子代为王。
王母曰丁姬。
傅太后躬自养视，既壮大，成帝无继嗣。
时中山孝王在。
元延四年，孝王及定陶王皆入朝。
傅太后多以珍宝赂遗赵昭仪及帝舅票骑将军王根，阴为王求汉嗣。
昭仪及根皆见上无子，欲豫自结为久长计，更称誉定陶王。
上亦自器之，明年，遂征定陶王立为太子，语在《哀纪》。
月余，天子立楚孝王孙景为定陶王，奉恭王后。
太子议欲谢，少傅阎崇以为： 《春秋》不以父命废王父命，为人后之礼不得顾私亲，不当谢。
太傅赵玄以为当谢，太子从之。
诏问所以谢状，尚书劾奏玄，左迁少府，以光禄勋师丹为太傅。
translation: 
By the time of Emperor Cheng and Emperor Ai, neither Zhao Zhaoyi nor Dong Zhaoyi had any sons, so they also received this title.
After the death of Emperor Yuan, Fu Zhaoyi followed Prince Dingtao Gong to the feudal state and was called the Queen Mother of Dingtao.
Ten years later, Prince Gong died and his son succeeded to the throne.
The mother of the successor to King Dingtao was named Ding Ji.
Empress Dowager Fu personally raised this grandson. When he grew up, he became emperor and had no heirs.
At that time, King Xiao of Zhongshan was still alive.
In the fourth year of Yuan Yan, King Xiao of Zhongshan and King Dingtao both went to see Emperor Cheng.
Empress Dowager Fu spent many treasures to bribe Zhao Zhaoyi and the emperor's uncle, General Wang Gen, to secretly seek the crown prince position for King Dingtao.
When Zhao Zhaoyi, Wang Gen and others saw that the emperor had no heirs, they also wanted to collude for a long-term plan, so they praised King Dingtao even more.
Emperor Cheng also thought highly of him. In the second year, he summoned King Dingtao to the capital and established him as the crown prince. This incident was recorded in the "Records of Emperor Ai".
More than a month later, Emperor Cheng appointed Liu Jing, the grandson of King Xiao of Chu, as King Dingtao, and served as the queen of King Gong.
The prince discussed with his subordinates and planned to express his gratitude. Young Master Yan Chong believed that "Spring and Autumn" did not abandon his grandfather's order because of his father's order. Since he became someone else's heir, he should no longer care about personal family ties and should not express thanks.
Taifu Zhao Xuan thought that thanks should be given, and the prince listened to him.
So Shaoshu questioned the reason for the prince's thank you, and the minister impeached Zhao Xuan for his crimes. Zhao Xuan was demoted to Shaofu and appointed Guangluxun Shidan as Taifu.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
诏傅太后与太子母丁姬自居定陶国邸，下有司议皇太子得与傅太后、丁姬相见不，有司秦议不得相见。
顷之，成帝母王太后欲令傅太后、丁姬十日一至太子家，成帝曰： 太子丞正统，当共养陛下，不得复顾私亲。
王太后曰： 太子小，而傅太后抱养之。今至太子家，以乳母恩耳，不足有所妨。
于是令傅太后得至太子家。丁姬以不安养太子，独不得。
成帝崩，哀帝即位。
王太后诏令傅太后、丁姬十日一至未央宫。
高昌侯董宏希指，上书言宜立丁姬为帝太后。
师丹劾奏： 宏怀邪误朝，不道。
上初即位，谦让，从师丹言止。
后乃白令王太后下诏，尊定陶恭王为恭皇。
哀帝因是曰： 《春秋》 母以子贵 ，尊傅太后为恭皇太后，丁姬为恭皇后，各置左右詹事，食邑如长信宫、中宫。
translation: 
Shao also ordered the Empress Dowager Fu and the crown prince's mother, Ding Ji, to live in the mansion of Dingtao Kingdom, and asked relevant departments to discuss whether the crown prince could meet the Empress Dowager Fu and Ding Ji. The relevant departments discussed that they could not meet.
Soon, Emperor Cheng's mother, the Queen Mother, planned to ask Empress Dowager Fu and Ding Ji to visit the prince's house every ten days. Emperor Cheng said: The prince has inherited the throne and should be raised in the palace. He should no longer care about his relatives.
The Queen Mother said: When the prince was young, it was the Queen Mother Fu who raised him. Now when he comes to the prince's house, it is because of the kindness of his wet nurse that there is no hindrance.
Therefore, it was ordered that Queen Mother Fu could go to the prince's home, but Ding Ji could not meet the prince because she had not raised the prince since childhood.
Emperor Cheng died and Emperor Ai ascended the throne.
The Queen Mother ordered Queen Mother Fu and Ding Ji to go to Weiyang Palace once every ten days.
Dong Hong, the Marquis of Gaochang, catered to the Queen Mother's wishes and wrote a letter proposing to make Ding Ji the Queen Mother.
Shi Dan impeached Dong Hong and wrote in a memorial: "Dong Hong has evil intentions and harms the imperial court. He is really treasonous."
Emperor Ai had just ascended the throne and was humble in dealing with things. He gave up after listening to Shi Dan's words.
Later, he reported it to the Queen Mother and asked her to issue an edict to honor Prince Tao Gong as Emperor Gong.
Emperor Ai therefore said: The meaning of the "Spring and Autumn Annals" is that the mother is more precious than her son, and the Empress Dowager Fu should be respected as the Empress Dowager Gong, and Ding Ji as the Empress Gong.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
追尊恭皇太后父为崇祖侯，恭皇后父为褒德侯。
后岁余，遂下诏曰： 汉家之制，推亲亲以显尊尊，定陶恭皇之号不宜复称定陶。
其尊恭皇太后为帝太太后，丁后为帝太后。
后又更号帝太太后为皇太太后，称永信宫，帝太后称中安宫，而成帝母太皇太后本称长信宫，成帝赵后为皇太后，并四太后，各置少府、太仆，秩皆中二千石。
为恭皇立寝庙于京师，比宣帝父悼皇考制度，序昭穆于前殿。
傅太后父同产弟四人，曰子孟、中叔、子元、幼君。
子孟子喜至大司马，封高武侯。
中叔子晏亦大司马，封孔乡侯。
幼君子商封汝昌侯，为太后父崇祖侯后，更号崇祖曰汝昌哀侯。
太后同母弟郑惲前死，以惲子业为阳信侯，追尊惲为阳信节侯。
郑氏、傅氏侯者凡六人，大司马二人，九卿二千石六人，侍中诸曹十余人。
傅太后既尊，后尤骄，与成帝母语，至谓之妪。
与中山孝王母冯太后并事元帝，追怨之，陷以祝诅罪，令自杀。
元寿元年崩，合葬渭陵，称孝元傅皇后云。
translation: 
He also pursued the title of Queen Mother Gong's father as Chongzuhou, and Queen Gong's father as Baodehou.
More than a year later, another edict was issued: According to the system of the Han family, one should kiss one's relatives and respect those one respects. The title of Emperor Dingtao Gong should not be added with the word "Dingtao".
Empress Dowager Gong should be called the Empress Dowager, and Empress Ding should be called the Empress Dowager.
Later, the title of the empress dowager was changed to empress dowager, which was called Yongxin Palace, and the empress dowager was called Zhongan Palace. The emperor's mother, the empress dowager, was originally called Changxin Palace, and empress Zhao who became emperor was the empress dowager. There were four empress dowagers in total, each with a young mansion and a royal servant. Their rank and salary were all two thousand shi.
He also built a dormitory temple for Emperor Gong in the capital. According to the system of Emperor Xuan's father mourning the emperor, the order of Zhaomu was arranged in the front hall.
Empress Dowager Fu had four younger brothers from the same father, named Zimeng, Zhongshu, Ziyuan and Youjun.
Zimeng's son Fu Xiguan rose to the rank of Da Sima and was granted the title of Gaowuhou.
Uncle Zhong's son Fu Yan also became a Grand Sima and was granted the title of Marquis of Kongxiang.
Youjun's son Fu Shang was granted the title of Marquis of Ruchang. After serving as a guardian of the Queen Mother's father, Marquis of Chongzu, he changed the title of Marquis of Chongzu to Marquis of Ai of Ruchang.
The queen mother's younger brother Zheng Tan was dead, so she named Zheng Tan's son Zheng Ye the Marquis of Yangxin and honored Zheng Tan as the Marquis of Yangxin Jie.
A total of six people in the Zheng and Fu families were granted the title of marquis, two were appointed as Grand Sima, six were awarded the rank of Nine Ministers and Two Thousand Stones, and more than a dozen people were appointed as officials such as Shizhong.
Now that Empress Dowager Fu's status was exalted, she became even more arrogant. She talked to Emperor Cheng's mother and even called her an old woman.
Empress Dowager Fu once served Emperor Yuan together with Empress Dowager Feng, the mother of King Xiao of Zhongshan. Looking back on the past, she felt resentful and framed Empress Dowager Feng with a curse and ordered her to commit suicide.
In the first year of Yuanshou, Empress Dowager Fu died and was buried in Weiling together with Emperor Yuan. She was called Empress Xiaoyuan Fu.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
定陶丁姬，哀帝母也，《易》祖师丁将军之玄孙。
家在山阳瑕丘，父至庐江太守。
始，定陶恭王先为山阳王，而丁氏内其女为姬。
王后姓张氏，其母郑礼，即傅太后同母弟也。
太后以亲戚故，欲其有子，然终无有。
唯丁姬河平四年生哀帝。
丁姬为帝太后，两兄忠、明。
明以帝舅封阳安侯。
忠蚤死，封忠子满为平周侯。
太后叔父宪、望，望为左将军，宪为太仆。
明为大司马票骑将军，辅政。
丁氏侯者凡二人，大司马一人，将军、九卿、二千石六人，侍中、诸曹亦十余人。
丁、傅以一二年间暴兴尤盛。
然哀帝不甚假以权势，权势不如王氏在成帝世也。
建平二年，丁太后崩。
上曰： 《诗》云 谷则异室，死则同穴 。
translation: 
Ding Ji of King Dingtao was the mother of Emperor Ai and the great-great-great-granddaughter of General Ding, the founder of Yi.
Ding Ji was originally from Xiaqiu, Shanyang, and her father was the governor of Lujiang.
At the beginning, King Tao Gong was named King of Shanyang, and Ding sent his daughter to him as his concubine.
The queen's surname is Zhang, and her mother's name is Zheng Li. She is the half-sister of Empress Dowager Fu.
The queen mother hoped that the queen would have a son because of her relatives, but she never did.
Only Ding Ji gave birth to Emperor Ai in the fourth year of Heping.
Ding Ji was honored as the Queen Mother and had two brothers, Ding Zhong and Ding Ming.
Ding Ming was granted the title of Marquis of Yang'an as the emperor's uncle.
Ding Zhong died early, so he named his son Ding Man the Marquis of Pingzhou.
The Queen Mother has two uncles, Ding Xian and Ding Wang. Ding Wang was granted the title of General Zuo, and Ding Xian was granted the title of Imperial Servant.
Ding Ming was appointed as the Grand Sima Hussar General to assist in government affairs.
There are two people in the Ding family who have been granted the rank of marquis, one is the Grand Sima, there are six generals, nine ministers, and two thousand stones, and there are more than a dozen people who hold the rank of servant.
The Ding family and the Fu family suddenly became prosperous in one or two years.
But Emperor Ai did not give them much power, and their power was not as powerful as that of the Wang family when Emperor Cheng was in power.
In the second year of Jianping, Queen Mother Ding passed away.
Emperor Ai said: "The Book of Songs" says that life is in different rooms, and death is in the same acupuncture point.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
昔季武子成寝，杜氏之墓在西阶下，请合葬而许之。
附葬之礼，自周兴焉。
孝子事亡如事存，帝太后宜起陵恭皇之园。
遣大司马票骑将军明，东送葬于定陶，贵震山东。
哀帝崩，王莽秉政，使有司举奏丁、傅罪恶。
莽以太皇太后诏皆免官爵，丁氏徙归故郡。
莽奏贬傅太后号为定陶共王母，丁太后号曰丁姬。
元始五年，莽复言： 共王母、丁姬前不臣妾，至葬渭陵，冢高与元帝山齐，怀帝太后、皇太太后玺绶以葬，不应礼。
礼有改葬，请发共王母及丁姬冢，取其玺绶消灭，徙共王母及丁姬归定陶，葬共王冢次，而葬丁姬复其故。
太后以为既已之事，不须复发。
莽固争之，太后诏曰： 因故棺为致椁作冢，祠以太牢。
谒者护既发傅太后冢，崩压杀数百人；开丁姬椁户，火出炎四五丈，吏卒以水沃灭乃得入，烧燔椁中器物。
莽复奏言： 前共王母生，僣居桂宫，皇天震怒，灾其正殿；丁姬死，葬逾制度，今火焚其椁，此天见变以告，当改如媵妾也。
臣前奏请葬丁姬复故，非是。
共王母及丁姬棺皆名梓宫，珠玉之衣非藩妾服，请更以木棺代，去珠玉衣，葬丁姬媵妾之次。
奏可。既开傅太后棺，臭闻数里。
公卿在位皆阿莽指，入钱帛，遣子弟及诸生四夷，凡十余万人，操持作具，助将作掘平共王母、丁姬故冢，二旬间皆平。
莽又周棘其处以为世戒云。
时有群燕数千，衔土投丁姬穿中。
translation: 
In the past, Ji Wuzi built a mausoleum, and Du's tomb happened to be under the west steps. Du asked to be buried together, and Ji Wuzi agreed.
The etiquette of burial has been practiced since the Zhou Dynasty.
A filial son should serve the dead as he serves the living. The emperor and the queen mother should build a mausoleum in Emperor Gong's cemetery.
So he sent Ding Ming, the hussar general of the Grand Sima, to go eastward to Dingtao for the funeral. The Ding clan's dignitaries caused a sensation in Shandong.
After the death of Emperor Ai, Wang Mang took charge of the government and instructed relevant officials to report the crimes of the Ding and Fu families.
Wang Mang used the empress dowager's edict to dismiss them all, and the Ding family was driven back to their place of origin.
Wang Mang requested that Empress Dowager Fu be demoted to the title of Queen Mother Dingtao Gong, and Empress Dowager Ding be called Ding Ji.
In the fifth year of the Yuan Dynasty, Wang Mang also said that the Queen Mother and Ding Ji had previously disobeyed the rule of ministers and concubines. They were even buried in Weiling. The tomb was as high as the Yuan Emperor. They were buried with the seals and ribbons of the Emperor and the Empress Dowager, which was illegal.
According to etiquette, they should be reburied. They requested that the tombs of the Queen Mother of the Communist Party and Ding Ji be dug up, the seals and ribbons taken out and destroyed, the Queen Mother of the Communist Party and Ding Ji moved back to Dingtao, and buried near the King of the Communist Party, while Ding Ji was buried in the original form.
The Queen Mother thought that these things were in the past and there was no need to dig up the grave again.
Wang Mang insisted on doing this, so the Queen Mother issued an edict: Build an extra layer of coffin on top of the old coffin, build another tomb, and use Tailao to offer sacrifices.
Ye Zhehu excavated the tomb of Empress Dowager Fu, and the tomb collapsed and crushed hundreds of people to death. When they opened Ding Ji's coffin, fire came out. The flames were as high as four or five feet. The officials doused the fire with water before they could enter. The fire burned the utensils wrapped in the coffin.
Wang Mang reported again: "Previously, the Queen Mother of the Communist Party lived in Gui Palace without authorization. Heaven was angry and burned down the main palace. After Ding Ji's death, the funeral ceremony was not in accordance with the etiquette, so that the fire burned the coffin wood." This is God telling us that they should be reburied according to the treatment of concubines.
The last time I told you to bury Ding Ji in the original way, it was still too preferential treatment.
The coffins of Queen Mother Gong and Ding Ji both used the Zi Palace, which can only be used by emperors and empresses, and the clothes of pearls and jade are not what concubines of the feudal princes should wear. They requested to change to wooden coffins, remove the clothes of pearls and jade, and bury Ding Ji as a concubine. The petition was granted.
After opening the coffin of Queen Mother Fu, the stench could be smelled for miles.
The ministers in the court all catered to Wang Mang's wishes, paid money and silk, and sent more than 100,000 people from their families and descendants from all over the world with tools to help dig out the original tombs of the Queen Mother of the Communist Party and Ding Ji. It took 20 days to dig out the original tombs.
Wang Mang then surrounded the area with thorns as a warning for future generations.
At that time, there was a group of swallows, numbering several thousand, and they dropped earth into Ding Ji's hole.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
丁、傅既败，孔乡侯晏将家属徙合浦，宗族皆归故郡。
唯高武侯喜得全，自有传。
孝哀傅皇后，定陶太后从弟子也。
哀帝为定陶王时，傅太后欲重亲，取以配王。
王入为汉太子，傅氏女为妃。
哀帝即位，成帝大行尚在前殿，而傅太后封傅妃父晏为孔乡侯，与帝舅阳安侯丁明同日俱封。
时师丹谏，以为： 天下自王者所有，亲戚何患不富贵？
而仓卒若是，其不久长矣！
晏封后月余，傅妃立为皇后。
傅氏既盛，晏最尊重。
哀帝崩，王莽白太皇太后下诏曰： 定陶共王太后与孔乡侯晏同心合谋，背恩忘本，专恣不轨，与至尊同称号，终没，至乃配食于左坐，悖逆无道。
今令孝哀皇后退就桂宫。
后月余，复与孝成赵皇后俱废为庶人，就其园自杀。
translation: 
After the decline of the Ding and Fu families, Fu Yan, the Marquis of Kongxiang, moved their families to Hepu, and all the clan members returned to their place of origin.
Only Fu Xi, the Marquis of Gaowu, preserved himself and has other biographies.
Empress Fu of Emperor Xiaoai was the daughter of Empress Dowager Dingtao's cousin.
When Emperor Ai became King of Dingtao, Empress Dowager Fu planned to marry her, so she betrothed Fu's daughter to Emperor Ai.
Emperor Ai entered the capital and established himself as the crown prince, and Fu's daughter became the crown princess.
After Emperor Ai ascended the throne, while Emperor Cheng's coffin was still in the front hall, Empress Dowager Fu conferred the title of Marquis of Kongxiang on Concubine Fu's father, Fu Yan, on the same day as Emperor Ai's uncle, Yang'an Marquis Dingming.
At that time, Shi Dan came to remonstrate, thinking that the world is owned by the monarch alone. Do relatives still worry about not getting rich?
I'm afraid such a hasty move won't last long!
More than a month after Fu Yan was granted the title of Marquis, Concubine Fu was enshrined as queen.
The Fu family prospered, and Fu Yan became the most prominent.
When Emperor Ai passed away, Wang Mang reported to the Empress Dowager Xia Shao: The Empress Dowager of Dingtao and the Marquis of Kongxiang, Fu Yan, conspired together to abandon their kindness, forget their roots, act arbitrarily, and do evil things. They even used the same title as the emperor. After his death, he was honored to worship in the ancestral temple and sit on the left side. He was arrogant, disrespectful, and treasonous.
Queen Xiaoai is now ordered to retire to Gui Palace.
More than a month later, Empress Fu and Empress Xiaocheng Zhao were deposed as common people, and then she committed suicide in the cemetery.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
孝元冯昭仪，平帝祖母也。
元帝即位二年，以选入后宫。
时父奉世为执金吾。
昭仪始为长使，数月至美人，后五年就馆生男，拜为婕妤。
时父奉世为右将军光禄勋，奉世长男野王为左冯翊，父子并居朝廷，议者以为器能当其位，非用女宠故也。
而冯婕妤内宠与傅昭仪等。
建昭中，上幸虎圈斗兽，后宫皆坐。
熊佚出圈，攀槛欲上殿。
左右贵人傅昭仪等皆惊走，冯婕妤直前当熊而立，左右格杀熊。
上问： 人情惊惧，何故前当熊？
婕妤对曰： 猛兽得人而止，妾恐熊至御坐，故以身当之。
元帝嗟叹，以此倍敬重焉。傅昭仪等皆惭。
明年夏，冯婕妤男立为信都王，尊婕妤为昭仪。
translation: 
Feng Zhaoyi of Emperor Xiaoyuan was the grandmother of Emperor Ping.
In the second year after Emperor Yuan ascended the throne, Feng Zhaoyi was elected to the harem.
At that time, her father Feng Fengshi was in charge of Jinwu.
Zhaoyi was initially the chief envoy, and a few months later she was promoted to beauty. Five years later, she went to the outer house and gave birth to a son, who was named Jianzi.
At that time, her father Feng Fengshi was the right general Guang Luxun, and Feng Fengshi's eldest son Feng Ye was the left of Fengyi. Father and son were officials in the court together. People thought that their talents and official positions were consistent, not because their daughter was favored by the emperor.
The favor that nephew Feng received was not comparable to that of Fu Zhaoyi.
During the Jianzhao period, Emperor Yuan went to the tiger enclosure to watch a beast fight, and everyone in the harem sat aside.
A bear escaped from the tiger enclosure, climbed up the stile and ran to the hall.
The nobles on the left and right, such as Fu Zhaoyi, were scared away, but Feng Shidan stepped forward and blocked the bear. Standing there, the guards on the left and right killed the bear.
Emperor Yuan asked: "People are frightened and frightened. Why did you step forward to stop the bear?"
Jianzi replied: A ferocious beast will stop after it catches a person. I was afraid that the bear would come to His Majesty, so I blocked it with my body.
Emperor Yuan was very moved, so he respected Feng Jianzi even more, while Fu Zhaoyi and others were very ashamed.
In the summer of the next year, Feng Jiantun's son was granted the title of King of Xindu, and Shi was honored as Zhaoyi.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
元帝崩，为信都太后，与王俱居储元宫。
河平中，随王之国。
后徙中山，是为孝王。
后征定陶王为太子，封中山王舅参为宜乡侯。
参，冯太后少弟也。
是岁，孝王薨，有一男，嗣为王，时未满岁，有眚病，太后自养视，数祷祠解。
哀帝即位，遣中郎谒者张由将医治中山小王。
由素有狂易病，病发怒去，西归长安。
尚书簿责擅去状，由恐，因诬言中山太后祝诅上及太后。
太后即傅昭仪也，素常怨冯太后，因是遣御史丁玄案验，尽收御者官吏及冯氏昆弟在国者百余人，分系雒阳、魏郡、巨鹿。
数十日无所得，更使中谒者令史立与丞相长史、大鸿胪丞杂治。
立受傅太后指，几得封侯，治冯太后女弟习及寡弟妇君之，死者数十人。
巫刘吾服祝诅。医徐遂成言习、君之曰： 武帝时医修氏剌治武帝得二千万耳，今愈上，不得封侯，不如杀上，令中山王代，可得封。
立等劾奏祝诅谋反，大逆。
责问冯太后，无服辞。
立曰： 熊之上殿何其勇，今何怯也！
太后还谓左右： 此乃中语，前世事，吏何用知之？
是欲陷我效也！
translation: 
After the death of Emperor Yuan, Feng Zhaoyi was called the Queen Mother of Xindu and lived in Chuyuan Palace with King Xindu.
During the Heping period, he followed his son to Fengguo.
King Xindu later moved to Zhongshan and became King Xiao of Zhongshan.
Later, Emperor Cheng summoned King Dingtao to Beijing to establish him as the crown prince, and also made Feng Shen, the uncle of King Zhongshan, the Marquis of Yixiang.
Feng Shen is the younger brother of Queen Mother Feng.
In this year, King Xiao of Zhongshan passed away. He had a son who inherited the throne. He was not yet one year old at the time and fell ill. The Queen Mother raised him personally and prayed to God many times for blessings.
After Emperor Ai came to the throne, he sent Zhang You, the envoy of Zhonglang, and a doctor to treat the little king of Zhongshan.
Zhang You was usually mad, and when he became ill, he left Zhongshan in a rage and returned to Chang'an.
The minister reprimanded Zhang You for leaving without authorization. Zhang You was frightened and falsely accused the Empress Dowager of Zhongshan for cursing the emperor and the empress dowager.
The Empress Dowager was Fu Zhaoyi. She often resented Empress Dowager Feng, so she sent Ding Xuan, the imperial censor, to examine the matter and imprisoned all the waiters and officials of the Zhongshan Kingdom, as well as more than 100 Feng brothers, in Luoyang, Weijun, and Julu.
After dozens of days with no results, another envoy was sent to order Shi Li and Prime Minister Shi Dahonglucheng to interrogate the case together.
Shi Li complied with Empress Dowager Fu's wishes and hoped to be granted a title of marquis. He interrogated Empress Dowager Feng's sister Feng Xi and her widowed sister-in-law Junzhi, and dozens of people died.
The wizard Liu Wu confessed to the curse, and the doctor Xu Suicheng said that Feng Xi and Jun Zhi once said that during the reign of Emperor Wu, the doctor Xiu Shi cured Emperor Wu's illness and was rewarded 20 million. Now that he has cured the emperor, he cannot be granted a title of marquis. It is better to kill the emperor and let the King of Zhongshan replace him, and then he can be granted the title of marquis.
Shi Li and others reported to Empress Dowager Feng and others that they were practicing curses and plotting rebellion, which was really treason.
They questioned Empress Dowager Feng, but she refused to recruit him.
Shi Li said: How brave the bear was when he ran to the temple, why is he so scared now!
After the Queen Mother came back, she said to her attendants, "This is what the palace says. How can the officials know about the past events of the previous dynasty?"
This is clear evidence that they are trying to frame me.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
乃饮药自杀。
先未死，有司请诛之，上不忍致法，废为庶人，徙云阳宫。
既死，有司复奏： 太后死在未废前。
有诏以诸侯王太后仪葬之。
宜乡侯参、君之、习夫及子当相坐者，或自杀，或伏法。
参女弁为孝王后，有两女，有司奏免为庶人，与冯氏宗族徙归故郡。
张由以先告赐爵关内侯，史立迁中太仆。
哀帝崩，大司徒孔光奏 由前诬告骨肉，立陷人入大辟，为国家结怨于天下，以取秩迁，获爵邑，幸蒙赦令，请免为庶人，徒合浦 云。
中山卫姬，平帝母也。
父子豪，中山卢奴人，官至卫尉。
子豪女弟为宣帝婕妤，生楚孝王；长女又为元帝婕妤，生平阳公主。
成帝时，中山孝王无子，上以卫氏吉祥，以子豪少女配孝王。
translation: 
He committed suicide by taking poison.
Before the death of the Queen Mother, a minister petitioned to kill the Queen Mother. Emperor Ai could not bear to do this, so he ordered the Queen Mother to be deposed as a commoner and moved to Yunyang Palace.
After the death of the Queen Mother, Yousi reported again that the Queen Mother died before Xia Shao was abolished.
Then he issued a letter from Shao according to the etiquette of the princes, kings and queens.
Those who were implicated, including Yixiang Hou Feng Shen, Jun Zhi, and Feng Xi's husband and son, either committed suicide or were sentenced to death.
Feng Shen's daughter Feng Bian was the queen of King Xiao of Zhongshan. She gave birth to two daughters. Someone asked her to depose her as a commoner and move her back to her hometown with the Feng family.
Zhang You was awarded the title of Marquis of Guannei for being the first to report the matter, and Shi Li was promoted to Zhong Tai servant.
After the death of Emperor Ai, Chief Situ Kong Guang reported that Zhang You had falsely accused the royal family and Shi Li had him put to death, which made the imperial court and the people of the world resentful. In order to seek promotion and salary, and to obtain a title, fortunately, they caught up with the amnesty of the world and requested that they be dismissed as commoners and exiled to Hepu.
Wei Ji of King Zhongshan was the mother of Emperor Ping.
Wei Ji's father, Wei Zihao, was from Lunu, Zhongshan, and was a Weiwei.
Wei Zihao's sister was Biandan of Emperor Xuan and gave birth to King Chu Xiao; his eldest daughter was Jianzi of Emperor Yuan and gave birth to Princess Pingyang.
When he became emperor, King Xiao of Zhongshan had no sons. The emperor believed that the women of the Wei family were very lucky, so he betrothed Wei Zihao's youngest daughter to King Xiao.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
元延四年，生平帝。
平帝年二岁，孝王薨，代为王。
哀帝崩，无嗣。太皇太后与新都侯莽迎中山王立为帝。
莽欲颛国权，惩丁、傅行事，以帝为成帝后，母卫姬及外家不当得至京师。
乃更立宗室桃乡侯子成都为中山王，奉孝王后，遣少傅左将军甄丰赐卫姬玺绶，即拜为中山孝王后，以苦陉县为汤沐邑。
又赐帝舅卫宝、宝弟玄爵关内侯。
赐帝三妹，谒臣号修义君，哉皮为承礼君，鬲子为尊德君，食邑各二千户。
莽长子宇非莽隔绝卫氏，恐久后受祸，即私与卫宝通书记，教卫后上书谢恩，因陈丁、傅旧恶，几得至京师。
莽白太皇太后诏有司曰： 中山孝王后深分明为人后之义，条陈故定陶傅太后、丁姬悖天逆理，上僣位号，徙定陶王于信都，为共王立庙于京师，如天子制，不畏天命，侮圣人言，坏乱法度，居非其制，称非其号。
translation: 
In the fourth year of Yuanyan, Wei Ji gave birth to Emperor Ping.
When Emperor Ping was two years old, King Xiao died and Emperor Ping succeeded to the throne.
Emperor Ai died without heirs, so the Empress Dowager and Xindu Marquis Wang Mang welcomed King Zhongshan and established him as emperor.
Wang Mang planned to take charge of the state affairs alone. In view of the lessons of the Ding family and the Fu family, he made Emperor Ping the heir of Emperor Cheng. Emperor Ping's mother Wei Ji and his grandfather's family would not come to the capital.
So he made Liu Chengdu, the son of Taoxiang Marquis of the clan, the King of Zhongshan. After serving as the guardian of King Xiao of Zhongshan, he sent his young master Zuo General Zhen Feng to give Wei Ji a seal, worshiped her as Queen Xiao of Zhongshan, and made Kuxing County her fief.
He also rewarded Emperor Ping's uncle Wei Bao and Wei Bao's younger brother with the title of Marquis of Wei Xuanguan.
The three younger sisters of Emperor Ping were given the title of Yechen as Xiuyijun, Zaipi as Chenglijun, and Lizi as Zundejun, with each of them having a living estate of 2,000 households.
Wang Mang's eldest son, Wang Yu, objected to his father's rejection of the Wei family. He was afraid that disaster would be imminent in the future, so he secretly exchanged letters with Wei Bao, teaching Wei Ji to write a letter of thanks, and also mentioned the crimes of the Chen Ding family and the Fu family in the past, hoping to come to the capital.
Wang Mang reported to the Empress Dowager and issued an edict to Yousi: Empress Xiao of Zhongshan understood the righteousness well, and wrote a memorial to Empress Dowager Dingtao and Ding Ji for violating the laws of heaven and using their titles in vain. She moved King Dingtao to Xindu, and built a temple for the king in the capital. They treated them as if they were the emperor. They disobeyed the mandate of heaven, despised the sage's words, violated the law, and their status and title exceeded their standards.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
是以皇天震怒，火烧其殿，六年之间大命不遂，祸殃仍重，竟令孝哀帝受其余灾，大失天心，夭命暴崩，又令共王祭祀绝废，精魂无所依归。
朕惟孝王后深说经义，明镜圣法，惧古人之祸败，近事之咎殃，畏天命，奉圣言，是乃久保一国，长获天禄，而令孝王永享无疆之祀，福祥之大者也。
朕甚嘉之。夫褒义赏善，圣王之制，其以中山故安户七千益中山后汤沐邑，加赐及中山王黄金各百斤，增傅相以下秩。
卫后日夜啼泣，思见帝，而但益户邑。
宇复教令上书求至京师。
会事发觉，莽杀宇，尽诛卫氏支属。
卫宝女为中山王后，免后，徙合浦。
唯卫后在，王莽篡国，废为家人，后岁余卒，葬孝王旁。
孝平王皇后，安汉公太傅大司马莽女也。
translation: 
Therefore, God was angry and set fire to their palace. Within six years, disasters occurred one after another. Finally, Emperor Xiaoai was deeply harmed and died suddenly, which was not in line with God's will. The sacrifices of the common kings were also cut off, and his soul had nowhere to live.
I hope that Queen Xiao will deeply seek the righteousness of the scriptures, abide by the teachings of the saints, and in view of the disasters of the ancients and the disasters of modern times, comply with the destiny and obey the words of the saints, so as to preserve the kingdom forever, obtain blessings from heaven, and make the sacrifice of King Xiao of Zhongshan endless forever. Create the greatest fortune and auspiciousness. I applaud it very much.
It was an act of the Holy King to praise and reward benevolence, righteousness and goodness. He awarded seven thousand households in Gu'an, Zhongshan, as the fief of the Queen of Zhongshan. He also gave the Queen and the King of Zhongshan a hundred catties of gold each, and increased the rank and salary of officials below Prime Minister Fu.
Wei Ji cried all day long, hoping to see Emperor Ping, but she only got more fiefs.
Wang Yu also taught her to write a letter requesting to come to the capital.
Just when the incident was revealed, Wang Mang killed Wang Yu and wiped out the entire Wei clan.
Wei Shi's daughter was the Queen of Zhongshan. Her title as Queen was revoked and she was exiled to Hepu.
Only the guard queen was left. After Wang Mang usurped the country, he deposed her as a family member. She died more than a year later and was buried next to the Mausoleum of Prince Xiao in Zhongshan.
The queen of Emperor Xiaoping was the daughter of Wang Ling, the Grand Sima of Xuanbao.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
平帝即位，年九岁，成帝母太皇太后称制，而莽秉政。
莽欲依霍光故事，以女配帝，太后意不欲也。
莽设变诈，令女必入，因以自重，事在《莽传》。
太后不得已而许之，遣长乐少府夏侯藩、宗正刘宏、少府宗伯凤、尚书令平晏纳采、太师光、大司徒马宫、大司空甄丰、左将军孙建、执金吾尹赏、行太常事太中大夫刘歆及太卜、太史令以下四十九人赐皮弁素绩，以礼杂卜筮，太牢祠宗庙，待吉月日。
明年春，遣大司徒宫、大司空丰、左将军建、右将军甄邯、光禄大夫歆奉乘舆法驾，迎皇后于安汉公第。
宫、丰、歆授皇后玺绂，登车称警跸，便时上林延寿门，入未央宫前殿。
群臣就位行礼，大赦天下。
益封父安汉公地满百里，赐迎皇后及行礼者，自三公以下至驺宰执事长乐、未央宫、安汉公第者，皆增秩，赐金、帛各有差。
皇后立三月，以礼见高庙。
尊父安汉公号曰宰衡，位在诸侯王上。
赐公夫人号曰功显君，食邑。
封公子安为褒新侯，临为赏都侯。
后立岁余，平帝崩。
莽立孝宣帝玄孙婴为孺子，莽摄帝位，尊皇后为皇太后。
三年，莽即真，以婴为定安公，改皇太后号为定安公太后。
太后时年十八矣，为人婉瘱有节操。
自刘氏废，常称疾不朝会。
莽敬惮伤哀，欲嫁之，乃更号为黄皇室主，令立国将军成新公孙建世子礻象饰将医往问疾。
后大怒，笞鞭其旁侍御。
因发病，不肯起，莽遂不复强也。
及汉兵诛莽，燔烧未央宫，后曰： 何面目以见汉家！
自投火中而死。
translation: 
Mangtong was only nine years old when he ascended the throne. Shengtong's mother, the Queen Mother, exercised the power of the emperor, while Wang Cha presided over political affairs.
Wang Cha planned to follow Huo Guang's precedent and betroth his daughter to Wei Tong, but the Queen Mother did not want to do this.
Wang Mang used deception to allow his daughter to finally enter the palace and improve his status. This incident is recorded in Wang Mang's biography.
The Queen Mother had no choice but to agree. She sent Changle Shaofu Xiahou Fan, Zongzheng Liu Hong, Shaofu Zong Bofeng, and Shangshu Ling Pingyan to give betrothal gifts. She also gave betrothal gifts to Taishi Kong Guang, Grand Situ Ma Gong, Grand Sikong Zhenfeng, and Zuo General Sun Jian. Forty-nine officials, including Liu Xin, the Taizhong doctor, and the Taibu and Taishi orders, were in charge of Jinwu Yin reward and performed Tailiang affairs. They were used to perform sacrifices to gods and divination, worship the ancestral temple with Tailao rituals, and select auspicious months and dates.
In the spring of the next year, he sent Grand Situ Ma Gong, Grand Sikong Zhen Feng, left general Sun Jian, right general Zhen Han, and Guanglu doctor Liu Xin to drive to the mansion of Duke Anhan to marry the queen.
Ma Gong, Zhen Feng, and Liu Xin awarded the seal and ribbon to the queen. The queen boarded the chariot, set up guards along the way, and cleaned the road. On an auspicious day, she passed through Shanglin Yanshou Gate and entered the front hall of Weiyang Palace.
The ministers stood at the prescribed positions, saluted the emperor and empress, and announced a general amnesty to the world.
The queen's father, Duke Anhan, was granted a fief with a radius of hundreds of miles, and those who married the queen and completed the marriage ceremony were rewarded. From the third Duke down to the chief ministers who managed Changle Palace, Weiyang Palace and Duke Anhan's mansion, their rank and salary were increased, and gold and cloth were rewarded in different ways.
In the third month after she was enthroned, the queen went to pay homage to the great ancestor's temple according to etiquette.
He named his father Anmo Gong as prime minister, and his status was higher than that of the princes and kings.
The title given to Duke Anhan's wife was Gong Xianjun and she was given food.
Wang An, the son of An Han Gong, was granted the title of Baoxin Marquis, and Wang Lin was granted the title of Shangdu Marquis.
The queen reigned for more than a year, and Emperor Ping passed away.
Wang Mang made Liu Ying, the great-great-grandson of Emperor Xiaoxuan, his son, acting as emperor himself, and respected the queen as the empress dowager.
Three years later, Wang Mang ascended the throne as emperor, named Liu Ying the Duke of Ding'an, and changed the title of the Queen Mother to the Queen Mother of the Duke of Ding'an.
The Queen Mother was only eighteen years old at the time. She was a gentle, chaste, and moral person.
Since Liu was deposed, he often complained of illness and refused to go to court.
Wang Mang respected, feared and pitied her. He wanted to marry her off again, so he changed her title to the head of the Huang royal family, and asked the founding general to dress up as the new heir to Gongsun Jian and take doctors to visit her.
The queen mother was furious and whipped the waiter beside her.
From then on, she became ill and refused to get up, so Wang Mang no longer forced her.
When the Han army killed Wang Mang and burned the Weiyang Palace, the Queen Mother said: How can I have the dignity to meet the Han family again?
He jumped into the fire and committed suicide.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
赞曰：《易》著吉凶而言谦盈之效，天地鬼神至于人道靡不同之。
夫女宠之兴，由至微而体至尊，穷富贵而不以功，此固道家所畏，祸福之宗也。
序自汉兴，终于孝平，外戚后庭色宠著闻二十有余人，然其保位全家者，唯文、景、武帝太后及邛成后四人而已。
至如史良娣、王悼后、许恭哀后身皆夭折不辜，而家依托旧恩，不敢纵恣，是以能全。
其余大者夷灭，小者放流，呜呼！
鉴兹行事，变亦备矣。
translation: 
Praise: "The Book of Changes" talks about good and bad luck and the principle of gain and modesty. This is true for everything from heaven, earth, ghosts, gods, and even the human world.
However, a favored woman's fortune can rise from humble beginnings to become a queen, and her family can become rich without any meritorious service. This is what Taoists fear, and it is the source of disaster.
From the rise of the Han Dynasty to Emperor Xiaozi, there were more than twenty people who were famous for their beauty and pampering in the harem. However, only four people, Emperor Wen, Emperor Jing, Emperor Wu's empress dowager, and Empress Dowager Qiongcheng, were able to preserve their status and family.
As for Shi Liangdi, Empress Wang Ai, and Empress Xu Gongai, although they themselves were innocently killed, their families were saved thanks to the kindness of the past and they did not dare to act recklessly.
The rest of the people were exterminated at worst or exiled at worst, alas!
If you use this as a reference when dealing with people, you can cope with various changes.


