Chunk 0: 
original: 
吴太伯，太伯弟仲雍，皆周太王之子，而王季历之兄也。
季历贤，而有圣子昌，太王欲立季历以及昌，于是太伯、仲雍二人乃奔荆蛮，文身断发，示不可用，以避季历。
季历果立，是为王季，而昌为文王。
太伯之奔荆蛮，自号句吴。
荆蛮义之，从而归之千余家，立为吴太伯。
太伯卒，无子，弟仲雍立，是为吴仲雍。
仲雍卒，子季简立。
季简卒，子叔达立。
叔达卒，子周章立。
是时周武王克殷，求太伯、仲雍之后，得周章。
周章已君吴，因而封之。
乃封周章弟虞仲于周之北故夏虚，是为虞仲，列为诸侯。
周章卒，子熊遂立。
熊遂卒，子柯相立。
柯相卒，子强鸠夷立。
强鸠夷卒，子余桥疑吾立。
余桥疑吾卒，子柯卢立。
柯卢卒，子周繇立。
周繇卒，子屈羽立。
屈羽卒，子夷吾立。
夷吾卒，子禽处立。
禽处卒，子转立。
转卒，子颇高立。
颇高卒，子句卑立。
是时晋献公灭周北虞公，以开晋伐虢也。
句卑卒，子去齐立。
去齐卒，子寿梦立。
寿梦立而吴始益大，称王。
自太伯作吴，五世而武王克殷，封其后为二：其一虞，在中国；其一吴，在夷蛮。
十二世而晋灭中国之虞。
translation: 
Taibo Wu and his younger brother Zhong Yong were both sons of Gu Gong Danfu, King Tai of Zhou, and brothers of Ji Li, King of Zhou.
Ji Li was very virtuous and had a virtuous son Chang. The Taiwang wanted to establish Ji Li in order to pass the throne to Chang, so Tai Bo and Zhong Yong went to the land of Jingman. Like the local barbarians, they covered their bodies with tattoos and cut their hair to show that they could no longer inherit the throne, so as to avoid Ji Li.
Ji Li succeeded to the throne as Wang Ji, and Chang later became King Wen.
After Taibo fled to Jingman, he called himself Wu Ju.
The Jingman people believed that he was very righteous, and more than a thousand households followed him and respected him as Taibo Wu.
Taibo died without a son, and his younger brother Zhongyong succeeded him; he was Wu Zhongyong.
Zhongyong died and his son Ji Jian succeeded to the throne.
Ji Jian died and his son Shuda succeeded him.
Shuda died and his son Zhou Zhang succeeded to the throne.
At that time, King Wu defeated Yin Zhou and was looking for the descendants of Tai Bo and Zhong Yong, and found Zhou Zhang.
Zhou Zhang was already the monarch of Wu, so King Wu officially granted him the land of Wu.
He also enfeoffed Zhou Zhang's younger brother Yu Zhong to the former site of the Xia capital in the north of Zhou Dynasty. He was named Yu Zhong and ranked among the princes.
Zhou Zhang died and his son Xiong Sui succeeded to the throne.
Xiong Sui died, and his son Ke succeeded him.
Ke Xiang died and his son Qiang Jiuyi succeeded to the throne.
Qiang Jiuyi died, and his son Yu Qiaoxinwu succeeded to the throne.
Yu Qiao Xinwu died, and his son Ke Lu succeeded to the throne.
Ke Lu died and his son Zhou Yao succeeded him.
Zhou Yao died and his son Qu Yu succeeded him.
Qu Yu died and his son Yi Wu succeeded him.
Yiwu died and his son Qinchu succeeded him.
Qin Chu died and his son succeeded him.
After his death, his son Po Gao succeeded him.
Po Gao died and his son Goubei succeeded him.
At this time, Duke Xian of Jin destroyed Duke Yu who was north of the Zhou Dynasty, because Duke Yu lent a road to the Jin State, allowing the Jin army to destroy the Guo State.
Goubei died, and his son went to Qi to succeed him.
Qu Qi died, and his son Shou Meng succeeded to the throne.
After Shou Meng succeeded to the throne, the Kingdom of Wu began to become stronger, and Shou Meng called himself the king.
Counting from Taibo's founding of the Kingdom of Wu to the fifth generation, King Wu defeated the Yin Dynasty and named his descendants two kingdoms: one was the Kingdom of Yu, in the Central Plains, and the other was the Kingdom of Wu, in the barbarian zone.
By the twelfth generation, the Jin State destroyed the Yu State in the Central Plains.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
中国之虞灭二世，而夷蛮之吴兴。
大凡从太伯至寿梦十九世。
王寿梦二年，楚之亡大夫申公巫臣怨楚将子反而奔晋，自晋使吴，教吴用兵乘车，令其子为吴行人，吴于是始通于中国。
吴伐楚。
十六年，楚共王伐吴，至衡山。
二十五年，王寿梦卒。
寿梦有子四人，长曰诸樊，次曰余祭，次曰余眜，次曰季札。
季札贤，而寿梦欲立之，季札让不可，于是乃立长子诸樊，摄行事当国。
王诸樊元年，诸樊已除丧，让位季札。
季札谢曰： 曹宣公之卒也，诸侯与曹人不义曹君，将立子臧，子臧去之，以成曹君，君子曰 能守节矣 。
君义嗣，谁敢干君！
有国，非吾节也。
札虽不材，愿附于子臧之义。
translation: 
Two more generations later, the state of Wu in the barbarian region became prosperous.
In total, it has been passed down to nineteen generations from Taibo to Shoumeng.
In the second year of King Shoumeng of Wu, the exiled official Shen Gong Wuchen of the Chu State defected to the Jin State because he was resentful of the generals of the Chu State.
Later, Wu State began to send troops to conquer Chu State.
In the 16th year, the king of the Communist Party of Chu conquered the state of Wu and reached Mount Heng.
In the twenty-fifth year, King Wu Shoumeng passed away.
Shoumeng had four sons: the eldest son was named Zhufan, the second son was named Yuji, the third son was named Yumei, and the fourth son was named Jizha.
Ji Zha was a virtuous man, and Shou Meng wanted him to succeed him during his lifetime, but Ji Zha evaded and refused to agree, so he let his eldest son Zhufan succeed him, prime minister of various affairs, and take charge of state affairs on his behalf.
In the first year of King Zhufan of Wu, Zhufan removed his mourning clothes after the period of mourning and wanted to give up the throne to Jizha.
Ji Zha declined and said: When Cao Xuangong passed away, the princes of various countries and the people of Cao State thought that the newly established Lord Cao was unjust, and wanted to make Zang Zang the Lord of Cao. Zizang left the State of Cao so that Lord Cao could continue to reign. The gentleman commented on Zizang that he was able to observe integrity.
As the eldest son, you are the legitimate successor. Who dares to offend you?
Being a king is not what I should be doing.
Although I have no talent, I am still willing to imitate Zizang’s righteous deeds.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
吴人固立季札，季札弃其室而耕，乃舍之。秋，吴伐楚，楚败我师。
四年，晋平公初立。
十三年，王诸樊卒。
有命授弟余祭，欲传以次，必致国于季札而止，以称先王寿梦之意，且嘉季札之义，兄弟皆欲致国，令以渐至焉。
季札封于延陵，故号曰延陵季子。
王余祭三年，齐相庆封有罪，自齐来奔吴。
吴予庆封朱方之县，以为奉邑，以女妻之，富于在齐。
四年，吴使季札聘于鲁，请观周乐。
为歌《周南》《召南》。
曰： 美哉，始基之矣，犹未也，然勤而不怨。
歌《邶》《鄘》《卫》。
曰： 美哉，渊乎，忧而不困者也。
translation: 
The people of Wu insisted on establishing Jizha, but instead he abandoned his family and property to become a farmer. The people of Wu had to give up their plan to support him. In autumn, Wu attacked Chu again, and Chu defeated Wu's army.
In the fourth year, Duke Ping of Jin succeeded to the throne.
In the thirteenth year, King Zhufan of Wu died.
The purpose of leaving a will to pass the throne to his younger brother Yuji was to pass it on from brother to brother in order, and the throne must be passed on to Ji Zha to fulfill the last wish of the late king Shoumeng. And because the brothers all admired Jizha's noble character in relinquishing the country, everyone wanted to give up the position of king to others, so that it could gradually be passed on to Jizha.
Jizha was sealed in Yanling, so he was named Yanling Jizi.
In the third year of Wang Yuji's reign, Xiang Qing of Qi was convicted of a crime in Qi, and he fled from Qi to Wu.
The King of Wu rewarded him with Zhufang County as a city, and married the princess to Qingfeng. As a result, Qingfeng became richer than before in Qi.
In the fourth year, King Wu sent Jizha to visit the state of Lu. Jizha asked to see the Zhou Dynasty rituals and music preserved in the state of Lu.
Musicians from the state of Lu sang "Zhou Nan" and "Zhao Nan" for Jizha.
Jizha said: The song is so beautiful. It lays a solid foundation at the beginning, but it still does not reach the level of perfection. However, it sings the feelings of the people who are diligent in the king's affairs without complaining.
The musicians sang "Bei Feng", "阘风" and "Wei Feng" again.
Jizha said: The song is so beautiful, with a deep melody and a sense of urgency without confusing people.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
吾闻卫康叔、武公之德如是，是其《卫风》乎？
歌《王》。
曰： 美哉，思而不惧，其周之东乎？
歌《郑》。
曰： 其细已甚，民不堪也，是其先亡乎？ 歌《齐》。
曰： 美哉，泱泱乎大风也哉。
表东海者，其太公乎？
国未可量也。
歌《豳ī》。
曰： 美哉，荡荡乎，乐而不淫，其周公之东乎？
歌《秦》。
曰： 此之谓夏声。
夫能夏则大，大之至也，其周之旧乎？ 歌《魏》。
曰： 美哉，沨沨乎，大而宽，俭而易，行以德辅，此则盟主也。
歌《唐》。
曰： 思深哉，其有陶唐氏之遗风乎？
不然，何忧之远也？
非令德之后，谁能若是！
歌《陈》。
曰： 国无主，其能久乎？
自《郐》以下，无讥焉。歌《小雅》。
曰： 美哉，思而不贰，怨而不言，其周德之衰乎？
犹有先王之遗民也。
歌《大雅》。
曰： 广哉，熙熙乎，曲而有直体，其文王之德乎？ 歌《颂》。
曰： 至矣哉，直而不倨，曲而不诎，近而不逼，远而不携，迁而不淫，复而不厌，哀而不愁，乐而不荒，用而不匮，广而不宣，施而不费，取而不贪，处而不底，行而不流。
五声和，八风平，节有度，守有序，盛德之所同也。
见舞《象箾》《南籥》者，曰： 美哉，犹有感。
见舞《大武》，曰： 美哉，周之盛也其若此乎？
见舞《韶护》者，曰： 圣人之弘也，犹有惭德，圣人之难也！
translation: 
I heard that the virtues of Uncle Wei Kang and Duke Wu were like this. Is this probably "Wei Feng"?
The musicians sang "Wang Feng" again.
Jizha said: The song is so beautiful, it is thoughtful but not fearful. This is probably the music after the Zhou royal family moved eastward, right?
The musicians sang "Zheng Feng" again.
Jizha said: The mood of this piece of music is too weak, reflecting that the people cannot bear the cumbersome government orders. This is probably a harbinger of the demise of the Zheng Kingdom, right? The musicians sang "Qi Feng".
Jizha said: The music is so beautiful, it is magnificent and has the demeanor of a great country.
Like the vast East China Sea, this is probably the legacy of Jiang Taigong, right?
The future of this country is limitless.
The musicians sang "Bin Feng".
Jizha said: The song is so beautiful, the momentum is broad and majestic, cheerful but not excessive. This is probably the music that reflects Zhou Gong's eastern expedition, right?
The musicians sang "Qin Feng".
Jizha said: This is the so-called voice of China.
Being able to admire China will lead to greatness, which is the ultimate in greatness. This is probably the music of the old land of the Zhou royal family, right? The musicians sang "Wei Feng".
Ji Zha said: The music is so beautiful. The music is melodious and melodious. The momentum is grand and broad. It is economical and easy to perform. With the help of moral education, you can be the leader of the alliance.
The musicians sang "Tang Feng".
Jizha said: "You are thoughtful. Isn't this the legacy of Tao Tang's family?"
Otherwise, why is the sense of worry so heavy?
Who could be like this if not the empress of the late king who possesses great virtue!
The musician sang "Chen Feng" again.
Jizha said: How can a country last long without a wise monarch?
The next thing the musicians sang was "Haifeng". From this point on, Ji Zha gave no more comments. The musicians sang "Xiaoya".
Jizha said: The music is so beautiful. There is a sense of worry but no second thoughts, and there is resentment but no words are expressed. This may be a sign of Zhou De's decline, right?
But there are still some customs left by the people of the previous kings.
The musicians sang "Daya" again.
Jizha said: This piece of music is really broad and majestic, harmonious and joyful, gentle and gentle yet upright and strong. This may reflect the great virtue of King Wen of Zhou, right? The musicians sang "Ode" again.
Jizha said: It is extremely beautiful. The melody is strong but not arrogant, gentle but not abject, close but not urgent, slow but not lax, the rhythm is changeable but not chaotic, the melody is repetitive but not boring, sad but not sad, joyful but not absurd, uses wisdom widely but not lacking, broad-minded but not ostentatious, benevolent but not wasteful, seeking but not greedy, the music stops but the lingering sound is still echoing, the music changes but does not follow the trend.
The five tones are in harmony, the eight tones are harmonious, the rhythm follows the law, and the melody conforms to the rules, just like a virtuous person.
Jizha watched the dances "Xiang Feng" and "Nan Xun" again, and then said: "The dance is so beautiful, but there are still some regrets."
Ji Zha watched the "Da Wu" dance again and said: "The dance is so beautiful. Isn't this the virtue of the Zhou Dynasty?"
He watched the "Shaohu" dance again and said: "The saint is so great, but he still feels ashamed of his own virtue. It shows that it is really difficult to become a saint!"


Chunk 4: 
original: 
见舞《大夏》，曰： 美哉，勤而不德！
非禹其谁能及之？
见舞《招箾》，曰： 德至矣哉，大矣，如天之无不焘也，如地之无不载也，虽甚盛德，无以加矣。
观止矣，若有他乐，吾不敢观。
去鲁，遂使齐。
说晏平仲曰： 子速纳邑与政。
无邑无政，乃免于难。
齐国之政将有所归，未得所归，难未息也。
故晏子因陈桓子以纳政与邑，是以免于栾高之难。去齐，使于郑。
见子产，如旧交。
谓子产曰： 郑之执政侈，难将至矣，政必及子。
子为政，慎以礼。不然，郑国将败。
去郑，适卫。
说蘧ú瑗、史狗、史鳅、公子荆、公叔发、公子朝曰： 卫多君子，未有患也。
自卫如晋，将舍于宿，闻钟声，曰： 异哉！
translation: 
Ji Zha watched the "Da Xia" dance again and said: "The dance is so beautiful. You are diligent in civil affairs and don't take credit for it!"
Who else but Dayu could do it?
He watched the "Zhao Feng" dance again and said: The practice of virtue can be said to be at its peak. It is so great. Just like heaven, there is no place that cannot be covered. Just like the earth, there is nothing that cannot be carried. The virtue has reached its peak and cannot be added to it.
I am satisfied with watching the ritual music. Even if there are other rituals and music, I don’t dare to ask to watch it anymore.
Jizha left the state of Lu and went as an envoy to the state of Qi.
He persuaded Yan Pingzhong and said: Please hand over your fief and official position as soon as possible.
Without these two things, you will be safe from disaster.
齐国的政权快要易手了，在不能确定归入谁手之前，国家祸乱四不会平息的。
Therefore, Yanzi handed over his fiefdom and official position through Chen Huanzi, so he survived the disaster of the Luan and Gao clans attacking each other.
Jizha left Qi and went as an envoy to Zheng. When he saw Zichan, it was like seeing an old friend.
He said to Zichan: The people who hold power in the state of Zheng are licentious and extravagant. A disaster is coming, and the power will fall on you.
When you are in power, you must be careful to govern the country with etiquette, otherwise the country of Zheng will decline!
After leaving the state of Zheng, Jizha went to the state of Wei.
He admired Qu Yuan, Shi Gou, Shi Loach, Gongzi Jing, Gongshu Fa, and Gongzi Chao very much, and said: There are many gentlemen in the defense of the country, so the country is safe.
When Jizha arrived in Jin from the state of Wei, he was about to stay in Suyi. When he heard the sound of drums and bells making music, he said: "Strange!"


Chunk 5: 
original: 
吾闻之，辩而不德，必加于戮。
夫子获罪于君以在此，惧犹不足，而又可以畔乎？
夫子之在此，犹燕之巢于幕也。
君在殡而可以乐乎？
遂去之。
文子闻之，终身不听琴瑟。
适晋，说赵文子、韩宣子、魏献子曰： 晋国其萃于三家乎！
将去，谓叔向曰： 吾子勉之！
君侈而多良，大夫皆富，政将在三家。
吾子直，必思自免于难。
季札之初使，北过徐君。
徐君好季札剑，口弗敢言。季札心知之，为使上国，未献。
还至徐，徐君已死，于是乃解其宝剑，系之徐君冢树而去。
从者曰： 徐君已死，尚谁予乎？
季子曰： 不然。始吾心已许之，岂以死倍吾心哉！
七年，楚公子围弑其王夹敖而代立，是为灵王。
translation: 
I heard that if you have talent but no virtue, you will definitely be killed.
Sun Wenzi has offended the king and still lives here. He may not be careful enough. Can he still have fun?
Sun Wenzi's place here is as dangerous as a swallow's nest above the curtain.
Moreover, the king is still in the coffin and has not yet been buried. Is it difficult for him to have fun?
So he left.
Sun Wenzi heard Jizha's words and stopped listening to music for the rest of his life.
Jizha went to Jin, admired Zhao Wenzi, Han Xuanzi, and Wei Xianzi, and said: The power of Jin will fall into the hands of you three families.
Before he left Jin, he said to Shuxiang: You must do your best!
The king of Jin is extravagant and indulgent, but he has many good ministers and rich officials. The political power will fall to the three families of Han, Zhao and Wei.
You are an upright person and must think carefully about how to avoid disaster.
When Ji Zhagang was on his mission, he visited the king of Xu State on his way north.
Xu Jun liked Ji Zha's sword, but he didn't dare to say it. Ji Zha also understood Xu Jun's intention in his heart, but because he had to go to various countries in the Central Plains as an envoy, he did not present the sword to Xu Jun.
After returning from his mission, he passed through the state of Xu. Xu Jun had passed away. Jizha took off his sword and hung it on the tree in Xu Jun's tomb before leaving.
The entourage said: Mr. Xu has passed away, who should give the sword back to him!
Ji Zi said: No, I had promised him in my heart at the beginning. How could I go against my own wish just because of Xu Jun's death?
In the seventh year, the prince of Chu killed Chu King Jia Ao and proclaimed himself king, namely King Ling of Chu.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
十年，楚灵王会诸侯而以伐吴之朱方，以诛齐庆封。
吴亦攻楚，取三邑而去。
十一年，楚伐吴，至雩娄。
十二年，楚复来伐，次于干谿，楚师败走。
十七年，王余祭卒，弟余眜立。
王余眜二年，楚公子弃疾弑其君灵王代立焉。
四年，王余眜卒，欲授弟季札。
季札让，逃去。
于是吴人曰： 先王有命，兄卒弟代立，必致季子。
季子今逃位，则王余眜后立。
今卒，其子当代。
乃立王余眜之子僚为王。
王僚二年，公子光伐楚，败而亡王舟。
光惧，袭楚，复得王舟而还。
五年，楚之亡臣伍子胥来奔，公子光客之。
公子光者，王诸樊之子也。
常以为吾父兄弟四人，当传至季子。
季子即不受国，光父先立。
即不传季子，光当立。
translation: 
In the tenth year, King Ling of Chu formed an alliance with the princes to conquer Zhufang County of Wu State, in order to punish the original prime minister of Qi State, Guo Qingfeng.
The state of Wu also attacked the state of Chu, occupied three cities of the state of Chu, and then left.
In the eleventh year, the Chu State sent troops to attack the Wu State and fought all the way to Yu Lou.
In the twelfth year, Chu State again attacked Wu State and stationed troops in Ganxi for several days, but was finally defeated.
In the seventeenth year, Wang Yuji died and his younger brother Yu Mei succeeded to the throne.
The year before last, Chu Gongzi abandoned his illness and killed King Ling of Chu, and made himself king on his behalf.
In the fourth year, Wang Yumei died and wanted to pass it on to his younger brother Jizha.
Jizha avoided the situation and fled away.
So the people of Wu said: According to the decree of the late king, if a brother dies and a brother succeeds to the throne, the kingdom must be passed on to Ji Zi.
Ji Zi now escaped from the throne, and Wang Yumei became the last of his brothers to become king.
Now that he is dead, his son should be king in his stead.
So he established Yu Mei's son Liao as King of Wu.
In the second year of King Liao's reign, Prince Guang led an army to conquer Chu, but was defeated and lost the ship of King Wu.
Prince Guang was afraid of being punished for this, so he attacked the Chu army secretly and recaptured Wang Zhou before returning to the army.
In the fifth year, Wu Zixu, an exiled minister of Chu State, fled to Wu State. The young master treated him as a guest.
Prince Guang was the son of King Zhufan of Wu.
He has always believed that my father and four brothers should be passed on to the Jizi.
Now Ji Zi is no longer the king, but my father is the first to be the king.
Since the kingdom is not passed on to Ji Zi, I should succeed my father as the king.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
阴纳贤士，欲以袭王僚。
八年，吴使公子光伐楚，败楚师，迎楚故太子建母于居巢以归。
因北伐，败陈、蔡之师。
九年，公子光伐楚，拔居巢、钟离。
初，楚边邑卑梁氏之处女与吴边邑之女争桑，二女家怒相灭，两国边邑长闻之，怒而相攻，灭吴之边邑。
吴王怒，故遂伐楚，取两都而去。
伍子胥之初奔吴，说吴王僚以伐楚之利。
公子光曰： 胥之父兄为僇于楚，欲自报其仇耳。
未见其利。 于是伍员知光有他志，乃求勇士专诸，是之光。
光喜，乃客伍子胥。
子胥退而耕于野，以待专诸之事。
十二年冬，楚平王卒。
十三年春，吴欲因楚丧而伐之，使公子盖余、烛庸以兵围楚之六、灊。使季札于晋，以观诸侯之变。
楚发兵绝吴兵后，吴兵不得还。
于是吴公子光曰： 此时不可失也。
告专诸曰： 不索何获！
translation: 
So he secretly recruited the Magi, hoping to use them to attack King Liao.
In the eighth year, the King of Wu sent his son Guang to conquer the Chu State, defeated the Chu army, and brought the mother of the former Chu Crown Prince Jian back to the State of Wu from Juchao.
Taking advantage of the Northern Expedition, he defeated Chen and Cai's armies.
The year before last, Prince Guang conquered Chu State again and captured the two cities of Juchao and Zhongli.
At the beginning, a girl from the Beiliang clan in the border town of Chu State competed with a woman from Wu border town to pick mulberry leaves. The families of the two women were angry and attacked each other. When the officials of the two border towns heard about it, they attacked each other in anger, and the border town of Wu State was destroyed.
The State of Wu was furious upon hearing this, so it attacked the State of Chu, captured the two cities of Juchao and Zhongli, and returned.
When Wu Zixu fled to Wu, he told King Liao of Wu about the benefits of attacking Chu.
Prince Guang said: Zixu's father and brother were killed by the King of Chu. He advised you to attack Chu to avenge your own personal revenge. Attacking Chu will not be beneficial to Wu.
Wu Zixu then understood that Gongzi Guang had an ulterior motive. Zixu found a warrior named Zhuan Zhu and introduced him to Gongzi Guang.
Prince Guang was very happy and treated Wu Zixu with courtesy.
Zixu retreated to the countryside to earn a living, waiting for Zhuanzhu to take action.
In the winter of the twelfth year, King Ping of Chu passed away.
In the spring of the year before last, the King of Wu wanted to take advantage of the state mourning in Chu to attack Chu. He sent his sons Gaiyu and Zhuyong to lead troops to surround Chu's Liu and Hao towns, and sent Ji Zha as an envoy to Jin to observe the movements of the princes.
Unexpectedly, the Chu State sent a surprise army to cut off its retreat, and the Wu soldiers were prevented from returning home.
At this time, Prince Guang of Wu State said: This opportunity cannot be lost.
Tell Zhuan Zhu: If you don't take action, you won't get anything.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
我真王嗣，当立，吾欲求之。
季子虽至，不吾废也。
专诸曰： 王僚可杀也。母老子弱，而两公子将兵攻楚，楚绝其路。
方今吴外困于楚，而内空无骨鲠之臣，是无柰我何。
光曰： 我身，子之身也。
四月丙子，光伏甲士于窟室，而谒王僚饮。
王僚使兵陈于道，自王宫至光之家，门阶户席，皆王僚之亲也，人夹持铍。
公子光详为足疾，入于窟室，使专诸置匕首于炙鱼之中以进食。
手匕首刺王僚，铍交于匈，遂弑王僚。
公子光竟代立为王，是为吴王阖é庐。
阖庐乃以专诸子为卿。
季子至，曰： 苟先君无废祀，民人无废主，社稷有奉，乃吾君也。
吾敢谁怨乎？
哀死事生，以待天命。
非我生乱，立者从之，先人之道也。
translation: 
I am the true heir to the throne and should be made king. This is what I want to pursue.
Even if Ji Zi comes back, he will not oppose me.
Zhuan Zhu said: The conditions for killing Wang Liao have been met. There are only his mother and young son in the country, but his two younger brothers led troops to attack Chu and were blocked from returning.
Now King Wu is besieged by the State of Chu outside the country, and there are no upright and loyal ministers in the country. No one can stop us.
Gongzi Guang said: My body is your body, sharing weal and woe.
On the day Bingzi of the fourth month, Prince Guang ambushed the soldiers in the basement, and then invited King Liao to a banquet.
King Liao sent troops to line up along the road. From the palace to Prince Guang's house, to the gate, steps, door and seats of Guang's house, they were all covered with King Liao's personal soldiers, each holding a sharp sword.
After King Liao arrived, Prince Guang pretended to have a pain in his feet and hid in the basement. He sent Zhuanzhu to hide the dagger in the belly of the whole roasted fish and pretend to serve it.
When Zhuan Zhu brought the fish to King Liao, he took out a dagger from the fish's belly and stabbed Wang Liao. The guards on the left and right hurriedly stabbed Zhuan Zhu's chest with their swords, but Wang Liao was already killed.
Prince Guang was indeed appointed King of Wu on his behalf, and he became the King of Wu's house.
Helu appointed Zhuanzhu's son as minister.
Jizha returned to the state of Wu and said: As long as the sacrifices to the ancestors are not abolished, the people will not be without a king, and the god of the country is enshrined, then he will be my king.
Who can I blame?
I can only mourn the dead and serve the living to deal with the destiny arrangements.
If you do not create trouble yourself, you should obey the newly established king. This is the principle of our ancestors.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
复命，哭僚墓，复位而待。吴公子烛庸、盖余二人将兵遇围于楚者，闻公子光弑王僚自立，乃以其兵降楚，楚封之于舒。
王阖庐元年，举伍子胥为行人而与谋国事。
楚诛伯州犁，其孙伯嚭ǐ亡奔吴，吴以为大夫。
三年，吴王阖庐与子胥、伯嚭将兵伐楚，拔舒，杀吴亡将二公子。
光谋欲入郢，将军孙武曰： 民劳，未可，待之。
四年，伐楚，取六与灊。
五年，伐越，败之。
六年，楚使子常囊瓦伐吴。迎而击之，大败楚军于豫章，取楚之居巢而还。
九年，吴王阖庐请伍子胥、孙武曰： 始子之言郢未可入，今果如何？
二子对曰： 楚将子常贪，而唐、蔡皆怨之。
王必欲大伐，必得唐、蔡乃可。
阖庐从之，悉兴师，与唐、蔡西伐楚，至于汉水。
楚亦发兵拒吴，夹水陈。
translation: 
So Jizha went to King Liao's tomb, reported how he completed his diplomatic mission, cried bitterly to King Liao, and then returned to his place in the court to wait for the new king's orders. Prince Gaiyu and Zhu Yong of the State of Wu were besieged by the Chu army with their troops. When they heard that Prince Guang had killed King Liao and proclaimed himself king, they led their troops to surrender to the State of Chu. The King of Chu sealed them in Shu.
In the first year of the reign of King Wu of Helu, Wu Zixu was appointed as an official of Xingren and participated in state affairs.
The King of Chu killed Bo Zhouli, and his grandson Bo Pei fled to the State of Wu. The King of Wu appointed him as a doctor.
In the third year, King Helu of Wu, Wu Zixu, and Bo Pei led an army to conquer Chu, captured Shuyi, and killed Gaiyu and Zhuyong, the young masters of Wu who had fled.
Helu planned to attack Ying, the capital of Chu State. General Sun Wu said: The army and the people are very tired from fighting. We cannot attack the capital of Ying now. We must wait for the time to mature.
In the fourth year, Wu attacked Chu again and captured Liuyi and Yayi.
In five years, the state of Wu attacked the state of Yue and defeated the Yue army.
In the sixth year, the state of Chu sent his son Chang Nangwa to conquer the state of Wu. Wu Jun sent troops to fight and defeated the Chu army in Yuzhang. He captured Juchao of Chu state and returned to Wu with his troops.
In the ninth year, King Wu Helu asked Wu Zixu and Sun Wu: At first you said you could not attack Yingdu, what is the situation now?
The two men replied: The general of Chu State is often greedy, and both Tang and Cai States hate him.
If your Majesty is determined to attack Chu on a large scale, you must unite Tang and Cai to succeed.
Helu obeyed them, dispatched all the troops, and marched westward with Cai State of Tang Dynasty to attack Chu, and came to the edge of Han River.
Chu State also sent troops to resist, and the two sides formed formations across the water.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
吴王阖庐弟夫概欲战，阖庐弗许。
夫概曰： 王已属臣兵，兵以利为上，尚何待焉？
遂以其部五千人袭冒楚，楚兵大败，走。
于是吴王遂纵兵追之。
比至郢，五战，楚五败。
楚昭王亡出郢，奔郧。
郧公弟欲弑昭王，昭王与郧公奔随。
而吴兵遂入郢。
子胥、伯嚭鞭平王之尸以报父雠。
十年春，越闻吴王之在郢，国空，乃伐吴。
吴使别兵击越。
楚告急秦，秦遣兵救楚击吴，吴师败。
阖庐弟夫概见秦越交败吴，吴王留楚不去，夫概亡归吴而自立为吴王。
阖庐闻之，乃引兵归，攻夫概。
夫概败奔楚。
楚昭王乃得以九月复入郢，而封夫概于堂谿，为堂谿氏。
十一年，吴王使太子夫差伐楚，取番。
楚恐而去郢徙鄀。
translation: 
King Wu's younger brother Fugai wanted to fight, but Helu wouldn't allow it.
Fugai said: Your Majesty has entrusted me with the army. The best way to fight is to seize the favorable opportunity. What are you waiting for!
So he led his five thousand men to attack the Chu army. The Chu army was defeated and fled.
King Wu sent troops to pursue him.
When they arrived at Yingdu, they fought five times in total, and the Chu soldiers were defeated five times.
King Zhao of Chu escaped from Yingdu and ran to Yun County.
Duke Yun's brother wanted to kill King Zhao, but King Zhao fled to Sui with Duke Yun.
Wu soldiers entered the capital of Ying.
Wu Zixu and Bo Pei dug up the body of King Chu Ping from the tomb and whipped it to avenge their father's murder.
In the spring of ten years, the king of Yue heard that the king of Wu was stationed in Yingdu and that the country was empty, so he raised his troops to attack Wu.
Wu State sent another army to fight against the Vietnamese soldiers.
The State of Chu appealed to the State of Qin, and the State of Qin sent troops to rescue Chu and attack Wu. The Wu army was defeated.
Helu's younger brother Fugai saw that the Qin soldiers and the Yue soldiers defeated the Wu soldiers at the same time, and the king of Wu stayed in the Chu state and did not return. Fugai ran back to the state of Wu and proclaimed himself the king of Wu.
After Helu heard about it, he led his troops back to Wu and attacked Fugai.
Fugai was defeated and fled to Chu.
King Zhao of Chu was able to return to Yingdu in September, and sealed Fugai in Tangxi, where he became the Tangxi clan.
The year before last, King Wu ordered Prince Fucha to attack Chu and capture Panyi.
The king of Chu was afraid and moved the capital from Ying to Bo.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
十五年，孔子相鲁。
十九年夏，吴伐越，越王句践迎击之槜李。
越使死士挑战，三行造吴师，呼，自刭。
吴师观之，越因伐吴，败之姑苏，伤吴王阖庐指，军却七里。
吴王病伤而死，阖庐使立太子夫差，谓曰： 尔而忘句践杀汝父乎？
对曰： 不敢！
三年，乃报越。
王夫差元年，以大夫伯嚭为太宰。
习战射，常以报越为志。
二年，吴王悉精兵以伐越，败之夫椒，报姑苏也。
越王句践乃以甲兵五千人栖于会稽，使大夫种因吴太宰嚭而行成，请委国为臣妾。
吴王将许之，伍子胥谏曰： 昔有过氏杀斟灌以伐斟寻，灭夏后帝相。
translation: 
In the fifteenth year, Confucius photographed the affairs of the State of Lu.
In the summer of the 19th year, the state of Wu sent troops to attack the state of Yue, and King Goujian of Yue led his troops to fight against Li.
The Vietnamese soldiers sent death squads to challenge the Wu army. They lined up in three lines and rushed towards the Wu army, chanting slogans and committing suicide in front of the formation.
The Wu soldiers just watched this strange situation and relaxed their guard. The Yue soldiers took advantage of the situation to attack and defeated the Wu soldiers in Gusu. King Wu's toe was wounded by the Vietnamese army, and the army retreated seven miles.
Later, King Wu died of trauma in Helu. Before his death, King Wu ordered the crown prince Fu Chai to be king, and said to Fu Chai, "Can you forget that Gou Jian killed your father?"
Fu Chai replied: "I dare not forget!"
After three years, Wu finally took revenge on Yue.
The year before last, the doctor Bo Pei was appointed as Dazai.
King Wu insisted on training his army and always aimed to take revenge on Yue.
The year before last, King Wu Fu Chai dispatched all his elite troops to attack Vietnam and defeated the Vietnamese army in Fujiao, finally avenging the defeat of Gusu.
King Gou Jian of Yue had no choice but to hide in Kuaiji Mountain with 5,000 armored soldiers, and sent the official Wen Zhong to seek peace through Bo Pe, the Grand Prime Minister of Wu State, and was willing to use Yue State as a slave state of Wu State.
The King of Wu wanted to allow it, but Wu Zixu advised him: "In the past, the Guo family killed the Zhen Guan family and then conquered the Zhen Xun family, killing the empress of Xia.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
帝相之妃后缗方娠，逃于有仍而生少康。
少康为有仍牧正。
有过又欲杀少康，少康奔有虞。有虞思夏德，于是妻之以二女而邑之于纶，有田一成，有众一旅。
后遂收夏众，抚其官职。
使人诱之，遂灭有过氏，复禹之绩，祀夏配天，不失旧物。
今吴不如有过之强，而句践大于少康。
今不因此而灭之，又将宽之，不亦难乎！
且句践为人能辛苦，今不灭，后必悔之。
吴王不听，听太宰嚭，卒许越平，与盟而罢兵去。
七年，吴王夫差闻齐景公死而大臣争宠，新君弱，乃兴师北伐齐。
translation: 
Hou Min, the wife of the emperor's prime minister, was pregnant and fled to Youzhang to give birth to Shaokang.
Shaokang became the official of Mu Zheng in You still country.
The Youguo family wanted to kill Shaokang again, so Shaokang fled to the Youyu state. The Youyu family missed Xia Zhi's kindness, so they married their two daughters to Shaokang and granted him Lunyi. At that time, Shaokang only had a land of ten miles and only 500 subordinates.
But later Shaokang gathered the remnants of Xia and rectified the official system.
They sent people to penetrate into the Youguo clan, finally eliminated the Youguo clan, restored Xia Yu's achievements, and worshiped the Xia ancestor as the emperor of heaven. All the relics of the Xia Dynasty were restored as before.
Now the state of Wu is not as powerful as it used to be with the Guo clan, and Gou Jian's strength is greater than that of Shaokang.
Instead of taking this opportunity to completely eliminate the Yue forces now, we must forgive them. This is setting up trouble for the future!
Moreover, Gou Jian was a man who was tenacious and endured hardships. If he is not eliminated now, he will regret it in the future.
The King of Wu did not listen to Zixu's plan, but listened to Dazai Pei's words, and finally ceased war with the State of Yue. After the two countries signed a peace treaty, the State of Wu withdrew its troops and returned home.
The year before last, King Fu Chai of Wu heard that ministers were vying for power after the death of Qi Jinggong, and that the new king was young and powerless, so he launched an army to attack Qi State in the north.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
子胥谏曰： 越王句践食不重味，衣不重采，吊死问疾，且欲有所用其众。
此人不死，必为吴患。
今越在腹心疾而王不先，而务齐，不亦谬乎！
吴王不听，遂北伐齐，败齐师于艾陵。
至缯，召鲁哀公而征百牢。
季康子使子贡以周礼说太宰嚭，乃得止。
因留略地于齐鲁之南。
九年，为驺伐鲁，至，与鲁盟乃去。
十年，因伐齐而归。
十一年，复北伐齐。
越王句践率其众以朝吴，厚献遗之，吴王喜。
唯子胥惧，曰： 是弃吴也。
谏曰： 越在腹心，今得志于齐，犹石田，无所用。
且《盘庚之诰》有 颠越勿遗，商之以兴 。
吴王不听，使子胥于齐，子胥属其子于齐鲍氏，还报吴王。
translation: 
Wu Zixu advised him: King Gou Jian of Yue did not eat more than two kinds of dishes, and did not wear more than two colors. He mourned the dead and comforted the sick. This was because he wanted to use the people to take revenge on Wu.
If Gou Jian does not die, he will definitely be a great trouble to the state of Wu.
Now the country of Yue is a serious problem for our country, but you don't pay attention to it and instead use your strength to the country of Qi. Isn't it a big mistake?
The King of Wu refused to listen and went north to attack Qi and defeated the Qi army in Ailing.
When the troops arrived at Zhuanyi, they summoned Duke Ai of Lu and asked for a hundred prisons.
Ji Kangzi sent Zigong to list the Zhou rites to persuade Dazai Pei, and King Wu stopped.
So King Wu stayed to seize the southern territories of Qi and Lu.
In the ninth year, he crusaded against Lu for Zuo and arrived in Lu. He made an alliance with Lu and left.
The year before last, he took advantage of the situation to attack Qi and return.
The year before last, there was another northern expedition to Qi.
King Gou Jian of Yue led his ministers to pay homage to the King of Wu and presented him with generous tributes. The King of Wu was overjoyed.
Only Wu Zixu was afraid and said: The Kingdom of Wu is going to be abandoned.
So he admonished the King of Wu and said: The Yue Kingdom is close to its heart. Although our country can defeat Qi now, it is like a field of stones, which is of no use.
Moreover, "Pangeng's Edict" said that the Shang Dynasty can only prosper if the chaotic and arrogant people are eliminated.
The King of Wu refused to listen and sent Wu Zixu as an envoy to Qi. Zixu entrusted his son to the Bao family of Qi to repay the King of Wu.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
吴王闻之，大怒，赐子胥属镂之剑以死。
将死，曰： 树吾墓上以梓，令可为器。
抉吾眼置之吴东门，以观越之灭吴也。
齐鲍氏弑齐悼公。
吴王闻之，哭于军门外三日，乃从海上攻齐。
齐人败吴，吴王乃引兵归。
十三年，吴召鲁、卫之君会于橐皋。
十四年春，吴王北会诸侯于黄池，欲霸中国以全周室。
六月丙子，越王句践伐吴。
乙酉，越五千人与吴战。
丙戌，虏吴太子友。
丁亥，入吴。
吴人告败于王夫差，夫差恶其闻也。或泄其语，吴王怒，斩七人于幕下。
七月辛丑，吴王与晋定公争长。
吴王曰： 于周室我为长。
晋定公曰： 于姬姓我为伯。
赵鞅怒，将伐吴，乃长晋定公。
吴王已盟，与晋别，欲伐宋。
太宰嚭曰： 可胜而不能居也。
translation: 
When the king of Wu heard about it, he was furious and gave Zixu a sword to commit suicide.
When Zixu was about to die, he said: If you plant catalpa trees on my grave and let them grow enough to make utensils, the Kingdom of Wu will be destroyed.
Plug out my eyes and place them on the east gate of the capital of Wu, so that I can see how the Yue Kingdom destroyed the Wu Kingdom.
Later, the official of Qi State, Bao Shi, killed Qi Daugong.
When King Wu found out, he cried bitterly outside the military gate for three days and then led his army to attack Qi from the sea.
The Qi army defeated the Wu army, and the king of Wu had no choice but to lead the defeated troops back home.
The year before last, King Wu convened the kings of Lu and Wei for an alliance meeting in Lugao.
In the spring of the year before last, King Wu went north to meet with the princes in Huangchi, hoping to dominate the Central Plains and protect the Zhou Dynasty.
In the sixth month of the sixth month, King Gou Jian of Yue attacked Wu.
On Yiyou day, five thousand Yue soldiers fought against Wu soldiers.
Bingxu, captured the prince friend of Wu.
In Dinghai, the Vietnamese army entered the state of Wu.
The Wu people reported the news of their failure to Fu Chai. The King of Wu was afraid that someone would leak the news and let the alliance princes hear the news, so he furiously killed seven people in front of the tent.
In the seventh month of Xinchou, the King of Wu and Duke Ding of Jin competed for the position of leader of the alliance.
King Wu said: My ancestor is the largest among the Zhou clan.
Jin Dinggong said: Among the countries named Ji, only our country of Jin has ever been the overlord.
Zhao Yang, the official of the Jin Dynasty, was angry and wanted to attack the king of Wu, so he made Jin Dinggong the leader of the alliance.
The King of Wu's alliance had concluded, and he separated from Jin Dinggong and wanted to attack the Song Dynasty.
Dazai Pei said: You can defeat the Song Kingdom, but you cannot stay and occupy it.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
乃引兵归国。
国亡太子，内空，王居外久，士皆罢敝，于是乃使厚币以与越平。
十五年，齐田常杀简公。
十八年，越益强。
越王句践率兵复伐败吴师于笠泽。
楚灭陈。
二十年，越王句践复伐吴。
二十一年，遂围吴。
二十三年十一月丁卯，越败吴。
越王句践欲迁吴王夫差于甬东，予百家居之。
吴王曰： 孤老矣，不能事君王也。
吾悔不用子胥之言，自令陷此。
遂自刭死。
越王灭吴，诛太宰嚭，以为不忠，而归。
太史公曰：孔子言 太伯可谓至德矣，三以天下让，民无得而称焉 。
余读《春秋》古文，乃知中国之虞与荆蛮句吴兄弟也。
延陵季子之仁心，慕义无穷，见微而知清浊。
呜呼，又何其闳览博物君子也！
translation: 
So he led his troops back home.
Wu State had no crown prince and the country was empty. The King of Wu had been away for a long time and his soldiers were tired, so he sent envoys with generous gifts to negotiate peace with Yue State.
The year before last, Qi doctor Tian Chang killed Qi Jiangong.
The year before last, the country of Yue had become stronger.
King Gou Jian of Yue led his troops to attack Wu and defeated the Wu soldiers in Lize.
Chu State destroyed Chen State.
The year before last, King Gou Jian of Yue attacked Wu again.
The year before last, Vietnamese soldiers besieged the state of Wu.
On Dingmao in November of the previous year, the Yue State defeated the Wu State.
King Gou Jian of Yue wanted to exile King Wu Fu Chai to Yongdong and give him a hundred households to live there.
The King of Wu said: I am old and can no longer serve the King of Yue.
I regret not listening to Zixu's words and letting myself fall into this situation.
So he committed suicide and died.
The King of Yue destroyed the Kingdom of Wu and killed Dazai Pi because he was not loyal to his lord, and then led his troops back to the country.
Tai Shigong said: Confucius said that Taibo can be said to be the pinnacle of morality. He gave up the world to others three times, and the people could not find words to praise him.
I read the ancient text "Spring and Autumn" and realized that Yu in the Central Plains and Juwu in Jingman were brothers.
The benevolent heart of Yanling Jizi persisted in admiring morality and righteousness throughout his life, and he was able to distinguish the pure from the turbid by seeing the subtle things.
Ah, what a well-informed and knowledgeable gentleman!


