Summary uses chunk [0, 6, 9, 11]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
吴太伯，太伯弟仲雍，皆周太王之子，而王季历之兄也。
季历贤，而有圣子昌，太王欲立季历以及昌，于是太伯、仲雍二人乃奔荆蛮，文身断发，示不可用，以避季历。
季历果立，是为王季，而昌为文王。
太伯之奔荆蛮，自号句吴。
荆蛮义之，从而归之千余家，立为吴太伯。
太伯卒，无子，弟仲雍立，是为吴仲雍。
仲雍卒，子季简立。
季简卒，子叔达立。
叔达卒，子周章立。
是时周武王克殷，求太伯、仲雍之后，得周章。
周章已君吴，因而封之。
乃封周章弟虞仲于周之北故夏虚，是为虞仲，列为诸侯。
周章卒，子熊遂立。
熊遂卒，子柯相立。
柯相卒，子强鸠夷立。
强鸠夷卒，子余桥疑吾立。
余桥疑吾卒，子柯卢立。
柯卢卒，子周繇立。
周繇卒，子屈羽立。
屈羽卒，子夷吾立。
夷吾卒，子禽处立。
禽处卒，子转立。
转卒，子颇高立。
颇高卒，子句卑立。
是时晋献公灭周北虞公，以开晋伐虢也。
句卑卒，子去齐立。
去齐卒，子寿梦立。
寿梦立而吴始益大，称王。
自太伯作吴，五世而武王克殷，封其后为二：其一虞，在中国；其一吴，在夷蛮。
十二世而晋灭中国之虞。
translation: 
Taibo Wu and his younger brother Zhong Yong were both sons of Gu Gong Danfu, King Tai of Zhou, and brothers of Ji Li, King of Zhou.
Ji Li was very virtuous and had a virtuous son Chang. The Taiwang wanted to establish Ji Li in order to pass the throne to Chang, so Tai Bo and Zhong Yong went to the land of Jingman. Like the local barbarians, they covered their bodies with tattoos and cut their hair to show that they could no longer inherit the throne, so as to avoid Ji Li.
Ji Li succeeded to the throne as Wang Ji, and Chang later became King Wen.
After Taibo fled to Jingman, he called himself Wu Ju.
The Jingman people believed that he was very righteous, and more than a thousand households followed him and respected him as Taibo Wu.
Taibo died without a son, and his younger brother Zhongyong succeeded him; he was Wu Zhongyong.
Zhongyong died and his son Ji Jian succeeded to the throne.
Ji Jian died and his son Shuda succeeded him.
Shuda died and his son Zhou Zhang succeeded to the throne.
At that time, King Wu defeated Yin Zhou and was looking for the descendants of Tai Bo and Zhong Yong, and found Zhou Zhang.
Zhou Zhang was already the monarch of Wu, so King Wu officially granted him the land of Wu.
He also enfeoffed Zhou Zhang's younger brother Yu Zhong to the former site of the Xia capital in the north of Zhou Dynasty. He was named Yu Zhong and ranked among the princes.
Zhou Zhang died and his son Xiong Sui succeeded to the throne.
Xiong Sui died, and his son Ke succeeded him.
Ke Xiang died and his son Qiang Jiuyi succeeded to the throne.
Qiang Jiuyi died, and his son Yu Qiaoxinwu succeeded to the throne.
Yu Qiao Xinwu died, and his son Ke Lu succeeded to the throne.
Ke Lu died and his son Zhou Yao succeeded him.
Zhou Yao died and his son Qu Yu succeeded him.
Qu Yu died and his son Yi Wu succeeded him.
Yiwu died and his son Qinchu succeeded him.
Qin Chu died and his son succeeded him.
After his death, his son Po Gao succeeded him.
Po Gao died and his son Goubei succeeded him.
At this time, Duke Xian of Jin destroyed Duke Yu who was north of the Zhou Dynasty, because Duke Yu lent a road to the Jin State, allowing the Jin army to destroy the Guo State.
Goubei died, and his son went to Qi to succeed him.
Qu Qi died, and his son Shou Meng succeeded to the throne.
After Shou Meng succeeded to the throne, the Kingdom of Wu began to become stronger, and Shou Meng called himself the king.
Counting from Taibo's founding of the Kingdom of Wu to the fifth generation, King Wu defeated the Yin Dynasty and named his descendants two kingdoms: one was the Kingdom of Yu, in the Central Plains, and the other was the Kingdom of Wu, in the barbarian zone.
By the twelfth generation, the Jin State destroyed the Yu State in the Central Plains.

summary:
summary line 0: Taibo Wu and his younger brother Zhong Yong were sons of Gu Gong Danfu, King Tai of Zhou. Because their father wished to pass the throne to their younger brother Ji Li, and eventually to Ji Li's virtuous son Chang, Taibo and Zhong Yong fled to the land of Jingman. There, they adopted local customs by tattooing their bodies and cutting their hair to show they could not inherit the throne. The Jingman people, finding Taibo righteous, followed him and respected him as Taibo Wu. Taibo died without a son, and Zhong Yong succeeded him. The lineage continued until Zhou Zhang, who was officially granted the land of Wu by King Wu of Zhou after he defeated the Yin dynasty. The kingdom of Wu was passed down through generations, eventually becoming prosperous under King Shoumeng, who was the nineteenth generation from Taibo.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
十年，楚灵王会诸侯而以伐吴之朱方，以诛齐庆封。
吴亦攻楚，取三邑而去。
十一年，楚伐吴，至雩娄。
十二年，楚复来伐，次于干谿，楚师败走。
十七年，王余祭卒，弟余眜立。
王余眜二年，楚公子弃疾弑其君灵王代立焉。
四年，王余眜卒，欲授弟季札。
季札让，逃去。
于是吴人曰： 先王有命，兄卒弟代立，必致季子。
季子今逃位，则王余眜后立。
今卒，其子当代。
乃立王余眜之子僚为王。
王僚二年，公子光伐楚，败而亡王舟。
光惧，袭楚，复得王舟而还。
五年，楚之亡臣伍子胥来奔，公子光客之。
公子光者，王诸樊之子也。
常以为吾父兄弟四人，当传至季子。
季子即不受国，光父先立。
即不传季子，光当立。
translation: 
In the tenth year, King Ling of Chu formed an alliance with the princes to conquer Zhufang County of Wu State, in order to punish the original prime minister of Qi State, Guo Qingfeng.
The state of Wu also attacked the state of Chu, occupied three cities of the state of Chu, and then left.
In the eleventh year, the Chu State sent troops to attack the Wu State and fought all the way to Yu Lou.
In the twelfth year, Chu State again attacked Wu State and stationed troops in Ganxi for several days, but was finally defeated.
In the seventeenth year, Wang Yuji died and his younger brother Yu Mei succeeded to the throne.
The year before last, Chu Gongzi abandoned his illness and killed King Ling of Chu, and made himself king on his behalf.
In the fourth year, Wang Yumei died and wanted to pass it on to his younger brother Jizha.
Jizha avoided the situation and fled away.
So the people of Wu said: According to the decree of the late king, if a brother dies and a brother succeeds to the throne, the kingdom must be passed on to Ji Zi.
Ji Zi now escaped from the throne, and Wang Yumei became the last of his brothers to become king.
Now that he is dead, his son should be king in his stead.
So he established Yu Mei's son Liao as King of Wu.
In the second year of King Liao's reign, Prince Guang led an army to conquer Chu, but was defeated and lost the ship of King Wu.
Prince Guang was afraid of being punished for this, so he attacked the Chu army secretly and recaptured Wang Zhou before returning to the army.
In the fifth year, Wu Zixu, an exiled minister of Chu State, fled to Wu State. The young master treated him as a guest.
Prince Guang was the son of King Zhufan of Wu.
He has always believed that my father and four brothers should be passed on to the Jizi.
Now Ji Zi is no longer the king, but my father is the first to be the king.
Since the kingdom is not passed on to Ji Zi, I should succeed my father as the king.

summary:
summary line 1: Shoumeng had four sons: Zhufan, Yuji, Yumei, and the virtuous Jizha. Shoumeng wanted Jizha to succeed him, but Jizha refused. The throne was then passed from brother to brother with the intention that it would eventually reach Jizha. After Yumei died, Jizha again fled, so the people established Yumei's son Liao as king. Prince Guang, the son of Zhufan, believed he should be king and secretly recruited a warrior named Zhuan Zhu. During a banquet, Zhuan Zhu assassinated King Liao, and Prince Guang became King Helu. Jizha, upon returning, accepted the new king, stating that as long as the ancestral sacrifices continued, the new king was his sovereign.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
复命，哭僚墓，复位而待。吴公子烛庸、盖余二人将兵遇围于楚者，闻公子光弑王僚自立，乃以其兵降楚，楚封之于舒。
王阖庐元年，举伍子胥为行人而与谋国事。
楚诛伯州犁，其孙伯嚭ǐ亡奔吴，吴以为大夫。
三年，吴王阖庐与子胥、伯嚭将兵伐楚，拔舒，杀吴亡将二公子。
光谋欲入郢，将军孙武曰： 民劳，未可，待之。
四年，伐楚，取六与灊。
五年，伐越，败之。
六年，楚使子常囊瓦伐吴。迎而击之，大败楚军于豫章，取楚之居巢而还。
九年，吴王阖庐请伍子胥、孙武曰： 始子之言郢未可入，今果如何？
二子对曰： 楚将子常贪，而唐、蔡皆怨之。
王必欲大伐，必得唐、蔡乃可。
阖庐从之，悉兴师，与唐、蔡西伐楚，至于汉水。
楚亦发兵拒吴，夹水陈。
translation: 
So Jizha went to King Liao's tomb, reported how he completed his diplomatic mission, cried bitterly to King Liao, and then returned to his place in the court to wait for the new king's orders. Prince Gaiyu and Zhu Yong of the State of Wu were besieged by the Chu army with their troops. When they heard that Prince Guang had killed King Liao and proclaimed himself king, they led their troops to surrender to the State of Chu. The King of Chu sealed them in Shu.
In the first year of the reign of King Wu of Helu, Wu Zixu was appointed as an official of Xingren and participated in state affairs.
The King of Chu killed Bo Zhouli, and his grandson Bo Pei fled to the State of Wu. The King of Wu appointed him as a doctor.
In the third year, King Helu of Wu, Wu Zixu, and Bo Pei led an army to conquer Chu, captured Shuyi, and killed Gaiyu and Zhuyong, the young masters of Wu who had fled.
Helu planned to attack Ying, the capital of Chu State. General Sun Wu said: The army and the people are very tired from fighting. We cannot attack the capital of Ying now. We must wait for the time to mature.
In the fourth year, Wu attacked Chu again and captured Liuyi and Yayi.
In five years, the state of Wu attacked the state of Yue and defeated the Yue army.
In the sixth year, the state of Chu sent his son Chang Nangwa to conquer the state of Wu. Wu Jun sent troops to fight and defeated the Chu army in Yuzhang. He captured Juchao of Chu state and returned to Wu with his troops.
In the ninth year, King Wu Helu asked Wu Zixu and Sun Wu: At first you said you could not attack Yingdu, what is the situation now?
The two men replied: The general of Chu State is often greedy, and both Tang and Cai States hate him.
If your Majesty is determined to attack Chu on a large scale, you must unite Tang and Cai to succeed.
Helu obeyed them, dispatched all the troops, and marched westward with Cai State of Tang Dynasty to attack Chu, and came to the edge of Han River.
Chu State also sent troops to resist, and the two sides formed formations across the water.

summary:
summary line 2: Under King Helu, Wu Zixu and Bo Pei were appointed to official positions. Helu, with the help of Wu Zixu, Sun Wu, and the states of Tang and Cai, launched a major attack on Chu, defeating the Chu army five times and capturing the capital, Ying. Wu Zixu and Bo Pei dug up the body of King Ping of Chu to avenge their fathers. Later, Helu's brother Fugai attempted to usurp the throne but was defeated and fled to Chu. In the nineteenth year, King Helu attacked Yue but was wounded and died. Before his death, he told his son Fuchai to remember that Gou Jian of Yue killed his father.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
十五年，孔子相鲁。
十九年夏，吴伐越，越王句践迎击之槜李。
越使死士挑战，三行造吴师，呼，自刭。
吴师观之，越因伐吴，败之姑苏，伤吴王阖庐指，军却七里。
吴王病伤而死，阖庐使立太子夫差，谓曰： 尔而忘句践杀汝父乎？
对曰： 不敢！
三年，乃报越。
王夫差元年，以大夫伯嚭为太宰。
习战射，常以报越为志。
二年，吴王悉精兵以伐越，败之夫椒，报姑苏也。
越王句践乃以甲兵五千人栖于会稽，使大夫种因吴太宰嚭而行成，请委国为臣妾。
吴王将许之，伍子胥谏曰： 昔有过氏杀斟灌以伐斟寻，灭夏后帝相。
translation: 
In the fifteenth year, Confucius photographed the affairs of the State of Lu.
In the summer of the 19th year, the state of Wu sent troops to attack the state of Yue, and King Goujian of Yue led his troops to fight against Li.
The Vietnamese soldiers sent death squads to challenge the Wu army. They lined up in three lines and rushed towards the Wu army, chanting slogans and committing suicide in front of the formation.
The Wu soldiers just watched this strange situation and relaxed their guard. The Yue soldiers took advantage of the situation to attack and defeated the Wu soldiers in Gusu. King Wu's toe was wounded by the Vietnamese army, and the army retreated seven miles.
Later, King Wu died of trauma in Helu. Before his death, King Wu ordered the crown prince Fu Chai to be king, and said to Fu Chai, "Can you forget that Gou Jian killed your father?"
Fu Chai replied: "I dare not forget!"
After three years, Wu finally took revenge on Yue.
The year before last, the doctor Bo Pei was appointed as Dazai.
King Wu insisted on training his army and always aimed to take revenge on Yue.
The year before last, King Wu Fu Chai dispatched all his elite troops to attack Vietnam and defeated the Vietnamese army in Fujiao, finally avenging the defeat of Gusu.
King Gou Jian of Yue had no choice but to hide in Kuaiji Mountain with 5,000 armored soldiers, and sent the official Wen Zhong to seek peace through Bo Pe, the Grand Prime Minister of Wu State, and was willing to use Yue State as a slave state of Wu State.
The King of Wu wanted to allow it, but Wu Zixu advised him: "In the past, the Guo family killed the Zhen Guan family and then conquered the Zhen Xun family, killing the empress of Xia.

summary:
summary line 3: King Fuchai avenged his father by defeating Yue at Fujiao. King Gou Jian of Yue was forced to hide in Kuaiji Mountain and sought peace through the Grand Prime Minister Bo Pei. Wu Zixu advised against this, comparing Gou Jian to Shaokang, who restored the Xia dynasty from a small territory. He warned that Gou Jian was a threat, but the King of Wu listened to Bo Pei and made peace with Yue. Fuchai then focused on northern campaigns against Qi, ignoring Zixu's warnings about the greater threat from Yue. Zixu was eventually forced to commit suicide, asking for his eyes to be placed on the east gate of Wu's capital to see Yue's invasion. While Fuchai was at the Huangchi meeting vying for supremacy with Jin, Yue attacked Wu, capturing the crown prince. After the meeting, Fuchai sought peace with Yue. Eventually, Yue grew stronger, defeated Wu in battle, and besieged its capital. King Fuchai, regretting not listening to Zixu, committed suicide. The King of Yue destroyed Wu and killed Dazai Bo Pei for his disloyalty.

