Chunk 0: 
original: 
杨王孙者，孝武时人也。
学黄、老之术，家业千余，厚自奉养生，亡所不致。
及病且终，先令其子，曰： 吾欲裸葬，以反吾真，必亡易吾意。
死则为布囊盛尸，入地七尺，既下，从足引脱其囊，以身亲土。
其子欲默而不从，重废父命；欲从之，心又不忍，乃往见王孙友人祁侯。
祁侯与王孙书曰： 王孙苦疾，仆迫从上祠雍，未得诣前。
愿存精神，省思虑，进医药，厚自持。
窃闻王孙先令裸葬，令死者亡知则已，若其有知，是戮尸地下，将裸见先人，窃为王孙不取也。
且《孝经》曰 为之棺椁衣衾 ，是亦圣人之遗制，何必区区独守所闻？
愿王孙察焉。
王孙报曰： 盖闻古之圣王，缘人情不忍其亲，故为制礼，今则越之，吾是以裸葬，将以矫世也。
夫厚葬诚亡益于死者，而俗人竞以相高，靡财单币，腐之地下。
或乃今日入而明日发，此真与暴骸于中野何异！
且夫死者，终生之化，而物之归者也。
归者得至，化者得变，是物各反其真也。
反真冥冥，亡形亡声，乃合道情。
夫饰外以华众，厚葬以隔真，使归者不得至，化者不得变，是使物各失其所也。
且吾闻之，精神者天之有也，形骸者地之有也。
精神离形，各归其真，故谓之鬼，鬼之为言归也。
其尸块然独处，岂有知哉？
裹以币帛，隔以棺椁，支体络束，口含玉石，欲化不得，郁为枯腊，千载之后，棺椁朽腐，乃得归土，就其真宅。
由是言之，焉用久客！
昔帝尧之葬也，窾木为椟，葛藟为缄，其穿下不乱泉，上不泄殠。
故圣王生易尚，死易葬也。
不加功于亡用，不损财于亡谓。
今费财厚葬，留归隔至，死者不知，生者不得，是谓重惑。
於戏！
translation: 
Yang Wangsun was from the time of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
Learn the art of Huang Lao, make a fortune, pay attention to health preservation, and try to get everything that is beneficial to health.
When he was critically ill and dying, he first ordered his son in his instructions: "When I die, I will be buried naked. Let me return to the way of nature. I must not change my wishes."
After death, I put the body in a cloth bag and put it seven feet into the ground. After putting it down, I pulled the cloth bag off my feet so that my body was in direct contact with the soil.
His son wanted to silently disobey, but found it difficult to disobey his father's orders; he wanted to obey his father's wishes, but he couldn't bear it, so he went to visit his father's friend Qi Hou.
Qi Hou wrote a letter to Yang Wangsun saying: You are suffering from illness. I was eager to follow the emperor to Yong County to offer sacrifices, so I was unable to visit you at the house.
I hope you can keep your spirits up, think less about problems, seek medical treatment, and take good care of yourself.
I heard that you made an order to be buried naked after death. If the deceased is unconscious, forget it. If the deceased is conscious, you will kill the body underground and go to see the ancestors naked. I don’t think you should do this.
Moreover, the "Book of Filial Piety" says that coffins, coffins, and quilts are provided for the deceased. This is also a system passed down by the saints. Why should you insist on your own opinions alone?
I hope you will review my comments.
Yang Wangsun wrote back and said: I heard that the ancient sage kings followed human feelings and did not suppress their relatives, so they planned funerals for people. Now they go beyond the etiquette regulations and practice rich burials. Therefore, I asked for a naked burial, intending to correct the social trend of rich burials.
A grand burial is really not beneficial to the deceased, but secular people compete with each other and spend all their money to buy funeral objects, leaving these things to rot in the ground.
Or it may be buried in the ground today and exhumed tomorrow. It is really no different from the corpse wilderness!
Moreover, the so-called death is the end of life and the destination of all things.
The destination can be reached, the dead can be transformed, and creation means that objects return to their origins.
Returning the origin to the underworld, invisible and silent, is in line with reason and emotion.
Decorating the appearance to attract attention, burying it in a luxurious manner and isolating the origin, making it impossible to reach the final destination and unable to change the deceased, are causing objects to lose their place.
And I heard that the spirit belongs to heaven, and the body belongs to the earth.
The spirit leaves the body and returns to its original state, so it is called a ghost. Ghost means returning.
How can a dead body be conscious when it is as empty and alone as a clod of soil?
The corpse was wrapped in silk, and the coffin was used to isolate the soil. The limbs were wrapped and bound, and the jade was held in the mouth. He tried to melt it but couldn't, and turned into a mummy in depression. After a thousand years, the coffin rotted, and he could return to the earth and his true destination.
From this point of view, why stay as a guest for a long time?
In the past, when Yao was buried, he hollowed out wood to make a coffin and tied it with kudzu vines on the outside. The grave was dug so deep that it was not as deep as the spring water, so that the rotten gas did not leak out.
Therefore, it is easy to respect a wise king when he is alive, and easy to bury him when he is dead.
Don't spend your time on useless things, and don't waste money without a purpose.
Nowadays, money is wasted on lavish burials, preventing the deceased from returning to the earth, and isolating them from their origins. The dead do not know, and the living cannot realize their wishes of filial piety. It can be said that it is too confusing. Alas!
I won’t give him a grand burial!


Chunk 1: 
original: 
吾不为也。
祁侯曰： 善。
遂裸葬。胡建字子孟，河东人也。
孝武天汉中，守军正丞，贫亡车马，常步与走卒起居，所以尉荐走卒，甚得其心。
时监军御史为奸，穿北军垒垣以为贾区，建欲诛之，乃约其走卒曰： 我欲与公有所诛，吾言取之则取，斩之则斩。
于是当选士马日，监御史与护军诸校列坐堂皇上，建从走卒趋至堂皇下拜谒，因上堂皇，走卒皆上。
建指监御史曰： 取彼。
走卒前曳下堂皇。建曰： 斩之。
遂斩御史。
护军诸校皆愕惊，不知所以。
建亦已有成奏在其怀中，遂上奏曰： 臣闻军法，立武以威众，诛恶以禁邪。
今监御史公穿军垣以求贾利，私买卖以与士市，不立刚毅之心，勇猛之节，亡以帅先士大夫，尤失理不公。
用文吏议，不至重法。
《黄帝李法》曰： 壁垒已定，穿窬不由路，是谓奸人，奸人者杀。
臣谨按军法曰： 正亡属将军，将军有罪以闻，二千石以下行法焉。
丞于用法疑，执事不诿上，臣谨以斩，昧死以闻。
制曰： 《司马法》曰 国容不入军，军容不入国 ，何文吏也？
三王或誓于军中，欲民先成其虑也；或誓于军门之外，欲民先意以待事也；或将交刃而誓，致民志也。
建又何疑焉？
translation: 
Qihou read Yang Wangsun's reply and said: Well said.
After Yang Wangsun died, he was finally buried naked.
Hu Jian, courtesy name Zimeng, was from Hedong County.
During the Tianhan period of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, he was appointed military official for trial. His family was poor and had no money to buy a carriage and horses. He often walked and lived with his officers, so he took the opportunity to comfort the officers, which was very popular.
At that time, the censor of the Imperial Army committed a crime and cut through the wall of the Northern Army's fortress to build a small house for selling goods for profit. Hu Jian wanted to kill him, so he invited the officers and said, "I plan to kill someone with you. If I tell you to catch him, you will catch him; if I ask you to kill him, you will kill him."
So it was scheduled to be the day to select soldiers and horses for the operation. On that day, the censor and the military guards were sitting in the corridor. Hu Jian and his officers walked quickly to the corridor to pay homage. When Hu Jian got up, he took advantage of the momentum and climbed onto the corridor, and the officers followed closely.
Hu Jian pointed at the censor and said: "Catch him."
The officer stepped forward and grabbed the censor and dragged him down the hall. Hu Jian said: Kill him!
The officer hacked the censor to death.
The guards and schools were all shocked and didn't know why.
Hu Jian had already carried the written memorial in his arms, so he submitted the memorial and said: I have heard from military law that military force is established to command authority over the masses, and that evildoers are punished to prohibit evil.
Nowadays, the imperial censor openly cuts through the walls of the military fortress to seek the interests of merchants, and privately engages in business with the scholars. He does not have a strong heart and courage, and is unable to lead the scholar-officials and set an example for them. It is extremely unjust and unfair.
If you let the civil servants discuss the crime, they will be punished severely.
"Huangdi Li Fa" says: After the barrier is formed, drilling holes violates the regulations of the camp, and it is considered a treacherous person, and the treacherous person will be put to death.
I act strictly in accordance with military law. Military law says: Military officers are not affiliated with generals. If a general commits a crime, military officers can report it to the emperor. Officials with a value of less than two thousand shi can be dealt with according to military law.
Jun Zhengcheng is under the jurisdiction of Junzheng. According to the military law, it is doubtful that Jun Zhengcheng killed the censor of the army. However, the deacons should immediately punish the illegal behavior and should not pass the matter to their superiors. Therefore, I killed the censor of the army according to the military law and risked my life to report the matter.
The emperor went down to Shao and said: "Sima Law" says: The etiquette and customs of the country do not enter the army, and the etiquette and customs of the army do not enter the country. Since the censor of the army broke the law in the army, why should we listen to the opinions of the civil servants?
King Yu of Xia, Tang of Shang, and King Wen of Zhou sometimes swore an oath in the army to ask the people to consider their own plans first; sometimes they swore an oath outside the military gate to ask the people to mentally prepare for war; sometimes they swore an oath when the two armies were about to confront each other to inspire the people's courage.
Why should you be suspicious?


Chunk 2: 
original: 
建由是显名。
后为渭城令，治甚有声。
值昭帝幼，皇后父上官将军安与帝姊盖主私夫丁外人相善。
外人骄恣，怨故京兆尹樊福，使客射杀之。
客臧公主庐，吏不敢捕。
渭城令建将吏卒围捕。
盖主闻之，与外人、上官将军多从奴客往，奔射追吏，吏散走。
主使仆射劾渭城令游徼伤主家奴。
建报亡它坐。
盖主怒，使人上书告建侵辱长公主，射甲舍门。
知吏贼伤奴，辟报故不穷审。
大将军霍光寝其奏。
后光病，上官氏代听事，下吏捕建，建自杀。
吏民称冤，至今渭城立其祠。
朱云字游，鲁人也，徙平陵。
少时通轻侠，借客报仇。
长八尺余，容貌甚壮，以勇力闻。
年四十，乃变节从博士白子友受《易》，又事前将军萧望之受《论语》，皆能传其业。
好倜傥大节，当世以是高之。
元帝时，琅邪贡禹为御史大夫，而华阴守丞嘉上封事，言 治道在于得贤，御史之官，宰相之副，九卿之右，不可不选。
平陵朱云，兼资文武，忠正有智略，可使以六百石秩试守御史大夫，以尽其能。
上乃下其事问公卿。
太子少傅匡衡对，以为 大臣者，国家之股肱，万姓所瞻仰，明王所慎择也。
传曰下轻其上爵，贱人图柄臣，则国家摇动而民不静矣。
今嘉从守丞而图大臣之位，欲以匹夫徒步之人而超九卿之古，非所以重国家而尊社稷也。
translation: 
Hu Jian became famous from then on.
Later, Hu Jian became the magistrate of Weicheng County and was famous for his achievements.
When Emperor Zhao was young, the queen's father, the hussar general Shangguan An, was very close to Ding Wairen, the lover of Emperor Zhao's sister, Princess Gaichang.
Foreigner Ding was arrogant and unruly. He resented his predecessor, Jing Zhao Yin Fanfu, so he sent an assassin to shoot him.
The assassin was hiding in the building owner's villa, and the officials did not dare to catch him.
Weicheng County Magistrate Hu Jian led officers and soldiers to surround the villa to arrest the assassin.
When Gai Zhu heard about it, he and his fellow Ding, Hussar General Shangguan'an, and many slaves and soldiers came over. They ran and shot at the officials, who then fled in all directions.
Lord Gai ordered his servants to impeach Weicheng County Magistrate Hu Jian, who sent a parade to injure Lord Gai's servants.
Hu Jian wrote a letter pleading that he was not guilty.
Lord Gai was very angry and sent a letter to falsely accuse Hu Jian of violating and insulting the eldest princess, and shot an arrow at the gate of Lord Gai's mansion.
Hu Jian knew clearly that his subordinate officials had harmed the princess's domestic slave, but he avoided retribution and deliberately did not pursue the investigation.
General Huo Guang suppressed their memorial.
Later, when Huo Guang fell ill, Shangguan Jie took charge of government affairs and ordered the officials to arrest Hu Jian. Hu Jian was forced to commit suicide.
Officials and people all said that he died unjustly, and his ancestral hall is still built in Weicheng.
Zhu Yun, whose courtesy name was You, was a native of Lu and later moved to Pingling.
When he was young, he made friends with the agile and powerful knights, and used the knights to take revenge.
He is more than eight feet tall, has a majestic appearance, and is famous for his courage.
At the age of forty, he changed his moral integrity and studied "The Book of Changes" with Dr. Bai Ziyou, and also studied "The Analects of Confucius" with former general Xiao Wangzhi, and was able to pass on the "Book of Changes" and "The Analects of Confucius".
He liked to be suave and free-spirited, and people in the society valued him for this.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty, Gong Yu, a native of Langye County, was appointed as the imperial censor. On behalf of Cheng Jia of Huayin County, he submitted a sealed memorial to the emperor, saying: The method of governance is to obtain talents. The censor is the deputy prime minister, ranking above the nine ministers, and must be selected.
Zhu Yun, a native of Pingling, is good at both civil and military affairs, loyal and wise. He can be allowed to try his best to serve as the imperial censor with an official rank of 600 stones.
Emperor Yuan asked the ministers for their opinions on this matter.
Prince Fu Kuangheng believed in the countermeasures: Ministers are the pillars of the country and the objects of admiration by all the people. Sage kings choose carefully.
Ancient books say that if the people despise high officials and humble people try to become powerful ministers, the country will be shaken and the people will be uneasy.
Now Jia Cong is acting as the county magistrate and is trying to become a minister. He wants a commoner to be promoted above the nine ministers. This is not an approach that values ​​the country and respects the country and the country.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
自尧之用舜，文王于太公，犹试然后爵之，又况朱云者乎？
云素好勇，数犯法亡命，受《易》颇有师道，其行义未有以异。
今御史大夫禹洁白廉正，经术通明，有伯夷、史鱼之风，海内莫不闻知，而嘉猥称云，欲令为御史大夫，妄相称举，疑有奸心，渐不可长，宜下有司案验以明好恶。
嘉竟坐之。
是时，少府五鹿充宗贵幸，为《梁丘易》。
自宣帝时善梁丘氏说，元帝好之，欲考其异同，令充宗与诸《易》家论。
充宗乘贵辩口，诸儒莫能与抗，皆称疾不敢会。
有荐云者，召入，摄■登堂，抗着而请，音动左右。
既论难，连拄五鹿君，故诸儒为之语曰： 五鹿岳岳，朱云折其角。
由是为博士。
迁杜陵令，坐故纵亡命，会赦，举方正，为槐里令。
时中书令石显用事，与充宗为党，百僚畏之。
唯御史中丞陈咸年少抗节，不附显等，而与云相结。
云数上疏，言丞相韦玄成容身保位，亡能往来，而咸数毁石显。
久之，有司考云，疑风吏杀人。
群臣朝见，上问丞相以云治行。
丞相玄成言云暴虐亡状。
时，陈咸在前，闻之，以语云。
云上书自讼，咸为定奏草，求下御史中丞。
事下丞相，丞相部吏考立其杀人罪。
云亡入长安，复与咸计议。
丞相具发其事，奏： 咸宿卫执法之臣，幸得进见，漏泄所闻，以私语云，为定奏草，欲令自下治，后知云亡命罪人，而与交通，云以故不得。
上于是下咸、云狱，减死为城旦。
咸、云遂废锢，终无帝世。
至成帝时，丞相故安昌侯张禹以帝师位特进，甚尊重。
云上书求见，公卿在前。
云曰： 今朝廷大臣上不能匡主，下亡以益民，皆尸位素餐，孔子所谓 鄙夫不可与事君 ， 苟患失之，亡所不至 者也。
臣愿赐尚方斩马剑，断佞臣一人以厉其余。
上问： 谁也？
对曰： 安昌侯张禹。
上大怒，曰： 小臣居下讪上，廷辱师傅，罪死不赦。
御史将云下，云攀殿槛，槛折。
云呼曰： 臣得下从龙逢、比干游于地下，足矣！
translation: 
From Yao's selection of Shun, to King Wen of Zhou's high appointment of Jiang Taigong, he was only entrusted with high officials and high titles after trial, not to mention people like Zhu Yun?
Zhu Yun always liked martial arts and broke the law many times to escape for his life. Although he was very good at studying "The Book of Changes", there was nothing special about his virtues and benevolence that others praised.
At present, Gong Yu, the imperial censor, is honest, proficient in classics, and has the demeanor of Boyi and Shi Yu. Everyone in the world knows it. However, Jia deliberately praised Zhu Yun and wanted him to be the censor. He praised and recommended him arbitrarily. He was afraid that he had treacherous thoughts. This kind of fraud should not be promoted. He should be interrogated and examined by the relevant officials to understand his intentions.
Jia was actually convicted of this.
At this time, Wulu, the Shaofu, was honored and favored by the clan. He studied "Liangqiu Yi".
From the time of Emperor Xuan, Emperor Yuan began to advocate Liangqiu's theory of interpretation of "Yi". Emperor Yuan loved "Liangqiu Yi" and wanted to examine the similarities and differences between "Liangqiu Yi" and other interpretations of "Yi", so he asked Wulu Chongzong to debate with other "Yi" scholars.
Wulu Chongzong relied on his high status and good eloquence. No one among the Confucian scholars could compete with him. They all said they were sick and did not dare to argue with him.
Someone recommended Zhu Yun, and Emperor Yuan called him into the palace to debate with Wulu Chongzong. Zhu Yun lifted up the hem of his long coat, climbed the steps to the hall, raised his head to ask, and his loud voice shook everyone around.
After the debate began, Zhu Yun ridiculed Wulu Chongzong one after another, so the Confucian scholars commented on their debate and said: Wulu Chongzong had horns on his head, and Zhu Yun broke his horns.
Zhu Yun therefore became a doctor.
Later, Zhu Yun was promoted to the county magistrate of Duling County. He was convicted of deliberately letting the outlaws go. When the emperor granted amnesty, he was recommended as Founder and became the magistrate of Huaili County.
At that time, Zhongshu ordered Shi Xian to have exclusive power and formed an alliance with Wulu Chongzong. All officials in the court were afraid of them.
Only Chen Xian, the censor Zhongcheng, was young and adhered to noble moral integrity. He did not rely on Shi Xian and others, but had friendship with Zhu Yun.
Zhu Yun went to court many times, saying that Prime Minister Wei Xuancheng was secure in his position and could not advance or retreat, while Chen Xian criticized Shi Xian many times.
After a long time, the relevant officials tortured Zhu Yun, suspecting that he secretly instigated the officials to kill.
When the officials met in court, Emperor Yuan asked Prime Minister Wei Xuancheng about Zhu Yun's achievements in government affairs.
Wei Xuancheng said that Zhu Yun was tyrannical and had no good governance.
Chen Xian was nearby at the time and heard what Wei Xuancheng said and told Zhu Yun.
Weiyun wrote a letter to defend himself, and Chen Xian drafted a draft memorial for him, requesting the emperor's approval to hand over the matter to Yushi Zhongcheng.
As a result, the emperor handed the matter over to the prime minister. Prime Minister Wei Xuancheng arranged for his subordinates to torture Zhu Yun and convicted Zhu Yun of murder.
Zhu Yun fled to Chang'an and approached Chen Xian to discuss countermeasures.
Prime Minister Wei Xuancheng found out all these things and reported to the emperor: Chen Xian, as a minister who stayed in the imperial palace and was in charge of laws and regulations, was fortunate enough to be able to see the emperor. However, he leaked what he heard and told Zhu Yun privately. He also drafted a draft of a memorial for Zhu Yun, hoping that the emperor would let him handle Zhu Yun's case. Later, he knew that Zhu Yun was a criminal who was on the run, but he colluded with him, so the officials could not catch Zhu Yun.
The emperor then ordered Chen Xian and Zhu Yun to be imprisoned and sentenced to death as a punishment.
Chen Xian and Zhu Yun were deposed and imprisoned until the death of Emperor Yuan.
When he became emperor, Zhang Yu, the former Prime Minister and Marquis of Anchang, was given a special position and favored by him because he was the emperor's teacher.
Zhu Yun wrote a letter asking for an audience. When the emperor summoned him, all the ministers and ministers were nearby.
Zhu Yun said: Nowadays, the ministers of the imperial court cannot help the monarch and cannot bring benefits to the people. They are all people who occupy empty positions and receive white-collar salaries and do not take care of the affairs. They are what Confucius said, "short-sighted people cannot assist the king. They are afraid of losing their favor and fortune, so there is nothing they can't do."
I hope that the emperor will give me Shang Fang's horse-killing sword to cut off the head of a sycophant minister as a warning to others.
The emperor asked: Who is it?
Zhu Yun replied: Zhang Yu, the Marquis of Anchang.
Emperor Cheng was very angry and said: A junior minister who slanders his superiors and insults my teacher in the court will be punished by death!
The imperial censor dragged Zhu Yun down to the palace. Zhu Yun clung to the railing in front of the palace and refused to move. As a result, the railing broke.
Zhu Yun shouted: I can go underground and hang out with Guan Longpang and Bigan, I am already satisfied!


Chunk 4: 
original: 
未知圣朝何如耳？
御史遂将云去。
于是左将军辛庆忌免冠解印绶，叩头殿下曰： 此臣素著狂直于世。
使其言是，不可诛；其言非，固当容之。
臣敢以死争。
庆忌叩头流血。
上意解，然后得已。
及后当治槛，上曰： 勿易！
因而辑之，以旌直臣。
云自是之后不复仕，常居鄠田，时出乘牛车从诸生，所过皆敬事焉。
薛宣为丞相，云往见之。宣备宾主礼，因留云宿，从容谓云曰： 在田野亡事，且留我东阁，可以观四方奇士。
云曰： 小生乃欲相吏邪？
宣不敢复言。
其教授，择诸生，然后为弟子。
九江严望及望兄子元，字仲，能传云学，皆为博士。
望至泰山太守。
云年七十余，终于家。
病不呼医饮药。
遗言以身服敛，棺周于身，士周于椁，为丈五坟，葬平陵东郭外。
梅福字子真，九江寿春人也。
少学长安，明《尚书》、《穀梁春秋》，为郡文学，补南昌尉。
后去官归寿春，数因县道上言变事，求假轺传，诣行在所条对急政，辄报罢。
是时，成帝委任大将军王凤，凤专势擅朝，而京兆尹王章素忠直，讥刺凤，为凤所诛。
王氏浸盛，灾异数见，群下莫敢正言。
福复上书曰：
臣闻箕子佯狂于殷，而为周陈《洪范》；叔孙通遁秦归汉，制作仪品。
夫叔孙先非不忠也，箕子非疏其家而畔亲也，不可为言也。
translation: 
I just don’t know what the future of the country will be like?
The censor finally took Zhu Yun away.
At this time, the left general Xin Qingji took off his hat, took off his seal and ribbon, kowtowed to His Highness and said: This minister has always been famous for his wild and upright character.
If what he says is right, he cannot be killed; if what he says is wrong, he should be tolerated.
I am willing to risk my life to speak out.
Xin Qingji kowtowed until blood flowed.
Emperor Cheng's anger gradually dissipated, and Zhu Yun was finally spared the death penalty.
When it came time to repair the railing, Emperor Cheng said: Don't replace it!
Repair it as it was, and use it to commend the strong and upright ministers.
Zhu Yun stopped being an official from then on and often lived in the countryside of Zouxian County. Sometimes he would go out in an ox cart, followed by many students. People respected him wherever he went.
When Xue Xuan was the prime minister, Zhu Yun went to visit him. Xue Xuan treated him as a guest and a host, and allowed him to stay in his mansion. By the way, he said to Zhu Yun: "I have nothing to do in the countryside. I will stay in my East Pavilion for the time being, and I can see the wonderful people from all over the world."
Zhu Yun said: "Does Xiaosheng want me to be an official?"
Xue Xuan didn't dare to say anything anymore.
Zhu Yun taught studies, selected students, and selected the best among them to be his disciples.
Yan Wang, a native of Jiujiang County, and Yan Yuan, the son of Yan Wang's brother, named Zhong, were able to inherit Zhu Yun's knowledge and both became doctors.
Yan Wangguan arrived at Taishan County as the prefect.
When Zhu Yun was in his seventies, he died at home.
When you are sick, you don’t ask a doctor or take medicine.
He left a message saying that he should be buried with the clothes he was wearing and use a small coffin that could only accommodate his lower body. The coffin could be placed in the tomb. As a result, the tomb was only one foot and five feet long and he was buried outside Shuguo, Pingling.
Meifu, whose courtesy name is Zizhen, was born in Shouchun County, Jiujiang County.
When he was young, he studied in Chang'an. He was proficient in Shangshu and Guliang Chunqiu.
Later, he resigned and returned to Shouchun. He wrote many times through county envoys to discuss extraordinary matters. He also asked to borrow a roller carriage at the post station to go to the emperor's place to record the emperor's inquiries about urgent political matters one by one, and then answered them one by one, but they were always rejected.
At this time, Emperor Cheng entrusted the political affairs to the general Wang Feng. Wang Feng was specialized in government affairs. However, Wang Zhang of Jingzhao Yin, who had always been loyal and upright, ridiculed Wang Feng and was killed by Wang Feng.
As the Wang family's power gradually grew stronger, disasters occurred many times, and no one among the ministers dared to speak frankly.
Mei Fu wrote again:
I heard that Jizi pretended to protect himself during the Yin Dynasty, but presented the book "Hong Fan" to King Wu of Zhou Dynasty; Shusun Tong escaped and became invisible during the Qin Dynasty, and later returned to the Han Dynasty and formulated the etiquette system for Liu Bang.
Mr. Shusuntong was not disloyal to the Qin Dynasty, and Jizi was not alienating his family and betraying his relatives. It was because they were unable to offer loyal advice.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
昔高祖纳善若不及，从谏若转圜，听言不求其能，举功不考其素。
陈平起于亡命而为谋主，韩信拔于行陈而建上将。
故天下之士云合归汉，争进奇异，知者竭其策，愚者尽其虑，勇士极其节，怯夫勉其死。
合天下之知，并天下之威，是以举秦如鸿毛，取楚若拾遗，此高祖所以亡敌于天下也。
孝文皇帝起于代谷，非有周、召之师，伊、吕之佐也，循高祖之法，加以恭俭。
当此之时，天下几平。
繇是言之，循高祖之法则治，不循则乱。
何者？
秦为亡道，削仲尼之迹，灭周公之轨，坏井田，除五等，礼废乐崩，王道不通，故欲行王道者莫能致其功也。
孝武皇帝好忠谏，说至言，出爵不待廉茂，庆赐不须显功，是以天下布衣各厉志竭精以赴阙廷自衒鬻者不可胜数。
汉家得贤，于此为盛。
使孝武皇帝听用其计，升平可致。
于是积尸暴骨，快心胡、越，故淮南王安缘间而起。
所以计虑不成而谋议泄者，以众贤聚于本朝，故其大臣势陵不敢和从也。
方今布衣乃窥国家之隙，见间而起者，蜀郡是也。
及山阳亡徒苏令之群，蹈藉名都大郡，求党与，索随和，而亡逃匿之意。
此皆轻量大臣，亡所畏忌，国家之权轻，故匹夫欲与上争衡也。
士者，国之重器；得士则重，失士则轻。
《诗》云： 济济多士，文王以宁。
庙堂之议，非草茅所当言也。
臣诚恐身涂野草，尸并卒伍，故数上书求见，辄报罢。
translation: 
In the past, Emperor Gaozu accepted good advice for fear of making mistakes, followed advice without hesitation, listened to good words regardless of the talent of the person who gave the advice, and rewarded people based on their merits without asking about the past actions and where they came from.
Chen Ping rose from a desperado to the master of counselors, and Han Xin was promoted from a junior officer to a general.
Therefore, all the wise men and strangers from all over the world gathered together and returned to the Han Dynasty, vying to be the first to offer their ingenious strategies. The wise tried their best, and the fools tried their best. The brave became braver, and the coward became unafraid of death.
Gathering the wisdom of the world and combining the might of the world, overthrowing the Qin Dynasty is as easy as lifting a feather, and defeating Xiang Yu is as easy as bending down to pick up something. This is why Emperor Gaozu is invincible in the world.
Emperor Xiaowen ascended the throne from Daiguo. He had no masters like Duke Zhou and Duke Zhao, nor assistant ministers like Yi Yin and Lu Shang. He followed the legal system of Emperor Gaozu. Increased humility and frugality.
At this time, the world will be at peace.
From this point of view, if you follow Emperor Gaozu's decrees, the system will be stable, and if you don't follow it, chaos will occur.
Why is this?
The Qin Dynasty was immoral, forbidding the teachings of Confucius, destroying the system of Zhou Gong, destroying the well-field system, canceling the five titles of duke, marquis, uncle, son, and male. The etiquette and justice were weakened, the music collapsed, and the benevolent government of the sage king was interrupted. Therefore, no one who wanted to implement the royal way could achieve results.
Emperor Xiaowu loved to receive loyal advice and liked wise words. If the advice was consistent with Emperor Wu's wishes, he could obtain an official title without having to go through recommendation and military merit. Therefore, the common people in the world tried their best to sharpen their will, and countless people came to the court to show off their talents.
The Han Dynasty recruited talented people, and there were the most numerous talents during the Han Dynasty.
If Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty had listened to the advice of these people, the world would have been peaceful.
However, at this time, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was quick to attack the Xiongnu and South Vietnam, which resulted in the accumulation of corpses and bones. Therefore, Huainan King Liu An took the opportunity to rebel.
The reason why Liu An's rebellion failed and the plan was leaked was because all the wise men gathered in the court, so the ministers of the King of Huainan did not dare to follow Liu An in rebellion.
Nowadays, ordinary people actually spy on the country's situation and rebel once they think there is an opportunity. This is the case with the rebellion of Zheng Gong, a man from Guangmo County, Shu County.
When the Su Ling gang of desperadoes from Shanyang County was established, they trampled on the famous counties, sought out party members, and snare those who followed them, without any intention of escaping and hiding.
These people despise the court ministers and are fearless. This is because the country has little power and is weak, so the common people dare to compete with the emperor for power.
Magi are important talents of the country; if a country gains magi, it will be strong; if it loses, a country will become weak.
The Book of Songs says: Talents abounded, and King Wen of Zhou was at peace.
Discussing court affairs is not something people living in a hut should do.
I was really worried that I would die in the wilderness and my body would be left on the battlefield, so I wrote many times to ask for permission, but was never accepted.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
臣闻齐桓之时有以九九见者，桓公不逆，欲以致大也。
今臣所言非特九九也，陛下距臣者三矣，此天下士所以不至也。
昔秦武王好力，任鄙叩关自鬻；缪公行伯，繇余归德。
今欲致天下之士，民有上书求见者，辄使诣尚书问其所言，言可采取者，秩以升斗之禄，赐以一束之帛。
若此，则天下之士发愤懑，吐忠言，嘉谋日闻于上，天下条贯，国家表里，烂然可睹矣。
夫以四海之广，士民之数，能言之类至众多也。
然其俊杰指世陈政，言成文章，质之先圣而不缪，施之当世合时务，若此者，亦亡几人。
故爵禄束帛者，天下之厎石，高祖所以厉世摩钝也。
孔子曰： 工欲善其事，必先利其器。
至秦则不然，张诽谤之罔，以为汉驱除，倒持泰阿，授楚其柄。
故诚能勿失其柄，天下虽有不顺，莫敢触其锋，此孝武皇帝所以辟地建功为汉世宗也。
今不循伯者之道，乃欲以三代选举之法取当时之士，犹察伯乐之图，求骐骥于市，而不可得，亦已明矣。
故高祖弃陈平之过而获其谋，晋文召天王，齐桓用其仇，有益于时，不顾逆顺，此所谓伯道者也。
一色成体谓之醇，白黑杂合谓之驳。
欲以承平之法治暴秦之绪，犹以乡饮酒之礼理军市也。
今陛下既不纳天下之言，又加戮焉。
夫■鹊遭害，则仁鸟增逝；愚者蒙戮，则知士深退。
间者愚民上疏，多触不急之法，或下廷尉，而死者众。
translation: 
I heard that when Duke Huan of Qi, someone asked for an audience with the "Nine-Nine Algorithm", but Duke Huan of Qi did not refuse him, in order to attract people who would contribute to great things.
Now what I am talking about is not just a trivial matter like the Nine-nine Algorithm. Your Majesty has refused to summon his ministers three times. This is the reason why the wise men in the world do not come.
In the past, King Wu of Qin was fond of bravery, so the strong man Ren Bi entered Hangu Pass and recommended himself; Duke Mugong of Qin practiced hegemony, and Yao Yu surrendered.
Nowadays, if we want to recruit wise men from all over the world, if the common people write to ask for an audience, let them go to see the minister. The minister will ask them what they said. If their words are acceptable, they will be given a salary and a bunch of silk as a reward.
If this is done, then the scholars of the world will express their frustrations and pour out their loyal advice, and the emperor will hear good advice every day. In this way, the world's system and the appearance of the country will be brightly distinct and can be seen clearly.
Due to the vastness of the Han Dynasty and the vast number of scholars and common people, there must be many people who can offer loyal advice.
However, there are only a few handsome and outstanding people among them who speak out about current affairs and state affairs, and their words are coherent. Even compared with the sages of the past, they are not ridiculous, and their implementation is in line with current affairs in today's society.
Therefore, juelu, silk and silk are the sharpening stones of the world, and Emperor Gaozu used them to inspire the world.
Confucius said: If a craftsman wants to do his job well, he must first sharpen his tools.
This was not the case in the Qin Dynasty. They set up a trap of slander and expelled all the talents to the Han Dynasty. They held the Tai'a sword upside down and handed the hilt to Chen She, Xiang Yu and others.
Therefore, if he could not lose his power, even if chaos broke out in the world, no one would dare to plot evil. This was the reason why Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was able to expand territory and establish achievements, and became the most respected emperor of the Han Dynasty.
Nowadays, instead of following the practice of achieving hegemony, we have to use the election method of Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties to appoint contemporary scholars. It is like going to the market to find a thousand-mile horse according to the horse picture drawn by Bole. It is absolutely impossible to get it. This is already very obvious.
Therefore, Liu Bang, the great ancestor, did not care about Chen Ping's fault for stealing his wife's money and obtained his clever scheme. Duke Wen of Jin summoned the emperor of Zhou to make an alliance with the princes in Wen, and Duke Huan of Qi reused Guan Zhong, who had been his enemy, as his prime minister.
The whole color is called pure, and the mixture of white and black is called refutation.
Trying to use the method of managing a peaceful society to manage the leftover affairs of Qin Dynasty is like using the etiquette of drinking in the countryside to manage the military trading place.
Now your Majesty does not accept the opinions of the people of the world, but also persecutes them.
When magpies are killed, it will promote the escape of luan and phoenix; when ignorant people are killed, it will encourage wise men to hide deeper.
Recently, stupid people have written letters, and most of them were convicted because they said things that were not urgent. Some were handed over to the court for interrogation, and many people died.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
自阳朔以来，天下以言为讳，朝廷尤甚，群臣皆承顺上指，莫有执正。
何以明其然也？
取民所上书，陛下之所善，试下之廷尉，廷尉必曰 非所宜言，大不敬。
以此卜之，一矣。
故京兆尹王章资质忠直，敢面引廷争，孝元皇帝擢之，以厉具臣而矫曲朝。
及至陛下，戮及妻子。
且恶恶止其身，王章非有反畔之辜，而殃及家。
折直士之节，结谏臣之舌，群臣皆知其非，然不敢争，天下以言为戒，最国家之大患也。
愿陛下循高祖之轨，杜亡秦之路，数御《十月》之歌，留意《亡逸》之戒，除不急之法，下亡讳之诏，博鉴兼听，谋及疏贱，令深者不隐，远者不塞，所谓 辟四门，明四目 也。
且不急之法，诽谤之微者也。 往者不可及，来者犹可追。
方今君命犯而主威夺，外戚之权日以益隆，陛下不见其形，愿察其景。
建始以来，日食地震，以率言之，三倍春秋，水灾亡与比数。
阴盛阳微，金铁为飞，此何景也！
汉兴以来，社稷三危。
吕、霍、上官皆母后之家也，亲亲之道，全之为右，当与之贤师良傅，教以忠孝之道。
今乃尊宠其位，授以魁柄，使之骄逆，至于夷灭，此失亲亲之大者也。自霍光之贤，不能为子孙虑，故权臣易世则危。
《书》曰： 毋若火，始庸庸。
势陵于君，权隆于主，然后防之，亦亡及已。上遂不纳。
成帝久亡继嗣，福以为宜建三统，封孔子之世以为殷后，复上书曰：
臣闻 不在其位，不谋其政 。
政者职也，位卑而言高者罪也。
越职触罪，危言世患，虽伏质横分，臣之愿也。
守职不言，没齿身全，死之日，尸未腐而名灭，虽有景公之位，伏历千驷，臣不贪也。
translation: 
Since the Yangshuo period, the world has been guarding against others, the law has been strict, and the court has been even more serious. All ministers obey the emperor's will, and no one dares to insist on correct opinions.
On what basis do you know this is the case?
Take the memorial submitted by the people, which your Majesty thinks is good, and then give it to the Tingwei to handle and test his attitude. The Tingwei will definitely say: This is not what should be said, it is disrespectful.
Testing in this way is one of the bases.
The former Jingzhao Yin Wangzhang was loyal and upright by nature and dared to face court disputes. Emperor Xiaoyuan promoted him to encourage the corpses to become vegetarians and correct those who distorted the government.
But when it came to Your Majesty, you killed him and even his wife.
Punishment of evildoers is limited to the criminals themselves. Wang Zhang was not guilty of rebellion, which brought disaster to his whole family.
The ministers all know that it is wrong to break the moral integrity of straight men and silence the mouths of remonstrating ministers, but they dare not argue. Everyone in the world is afraid that speaking will bring disaster.
This situation is a serious danger to the country. I hope that your majesty will follow the track of Emperor Gaozu, avoid the wrong path of destroying the Qin Dynasty, understand more the spirit of the song "The Turn of October", pay attention to the admonitions in "The Lost Escape", abolish unnecessary laws, issue edicts without taboos, read and listen to more, plan and avoid the humble, so that the deep will not hide its words, and the remote will not block the road.
Moreover, unnecessary laws are the beginning of defamation. Those who go by are out of reach, but those who come can still be pursued.
Today, the emperor's life has been violated, his authority has been deprived, and the power of his relatives is getting stronger day by day. Your Majesty cannot see the actual situation, and hopes to see its shadow.
Since the founding of the People's Republic of China, the number of solar eclipses and earthquakes that have occurred has been three times that of the Spring and Autumn Period, and the number of floods is beyond comparison.
Yin is rising and Yang is declining, gold and iron are flying like stars. What is this scene?
Since the establishment of the Han Dynasty, the country has experienced three crises.
The Lu family, the Huo family, and the Shangguan family are all the families of the emperor's mother and queen. When it comes to keeping close friends, safety is the top priority. They should be given a virtuous master to teach them the ways of loyalty and filial piety.
Today is to give them respected positions and grant them great authority, making them proud and rebellious to the point of being exterminated by the Yi clan. This is a very important matter of losing their relatives. A wise man like Huo Guang cannot think carefully about his descendants, so the next generation of ordinary powerful officials is in danger.
"Shangshu" says: Don't be like a big fire, which starts off as a mediocre fire.
Those who have more power than the monarch later find it too late to prevent problems.
Emperor Cheng refused to adopt it. Emperor Cheng had no heirs for a long time, so Mei Fu believed that a three-line circulation system should be established and Confucius' line should be designated as the descendants of the Yin and Shang Dynasties. He wrote again:
I heard that I am not in my position and do not pursue political affairs.
Politics is a job. It is a crime for someone with a low position to talk big words.
If he commits a crime beyond his authority and harms the world by making alarmist remarks, even if he is executed and his body and head are separated, I am willing to do so.
If you only stay in power and say nothing, your wealth and life will be preserved when you grow old, but when the day of death comes, your body will not rot but your reputation will be destroyed. In this way, you will have the position of Qi Jinggong, have horses and horses, and the ministers will not be greedy.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
故愿一登文石之陛，涉赤墀之途，当户牖之法坐，尽平生之愚虑。
亡益于时，有遗于世，此臣寝所以不安，食所以忘味也。
愿陛下深省臣言。
臣闻存人所以自立也，壅人所以自塞也。
善恶之报，各如其事。
昔者秦灭二周，夷六国，隐士不显，逸民不举，绝三绝，灭天道，是以身危子杀，厥孙不嗣，所谓壅人以自塞者也。
故武王克殷，未下车，存五帝之后，封殷于宋，绍夏于杞，明著三统，示不独有也。
是以姬姓半天下，迁庙之主，流出于户，所谓存人以自立者也。
今成汤不祀，殷人亡后，陛下继嗣久微，殆为此也。
《春秋经》曰： 宋杀其大夫。
《穀梁传》曰： 其不称名姓，以其在祖位，尊之也。
此言孔子故殷之后也，虽不正统，封其子孙以为殷后，礼亦宜之。
何者？
诸侯夺宗，圣庶夺適。
传曰 贤者子孙宜有土 而况圣人，又殷之后哉！
昔成王以诸侯礼葬周公，而皇天动威，雷风著灾。
今仲尼之庙不出阙里，孔氏子孙不免编户，以圣人而歆匹夫之祀，非皇天之意也。
今陛下诚能据仲尼之素功，以封其子孙，则国家必获其福，又陛下之名与天亡极。
何者？
追圣人素功，封其子孙，未有法也，后圣必以为则。
不灭之名，可不勉哉！
福孤远，又讥切王氏，故终不见纳。
初，武帝时，始封周后姬嘉为周子南君，至元帝时，尊周子南君为周承休侯，位次诸侯王。
translation: 
Therefore, I only wish to ascend the Wenshi Palace, enter the Chiqi Palace, and serve as an official in the court, and I must fulfill my lifelong loyalty.
Even if it is of no use to today, it may still be of benefit to future generations. This is the reason why I cannot sleep well and cannot eat well.
I hope your Majesty will reflect deeply on what the Inspector said.
I heard that if you protect others, you will protect yourself; if you block others, you will block yourself.
The retribution of good and evil each has its own course.
In the past, the Qin State destroyed the kings of the Western Zhou Dynasty and the Zhou Dynasty of the Eastern Zhou Dynasty, and flattened the six kingdoms. The people who lived in seclusion did not show up, and the fleeing people were not promoted.
Therefore, King Wu of the Zhou Dynasty reduced the business and left the Five Emperors behind him. He granted the title of Queen Yin to the Song Dynasty, and granted the title of Queen Xia to Qi. The Ming Dynasty marked the succession of the three unifications, indicating that they did not monopolize the world.
Therefore, the surname Ji accounts for half of the world. The master of moving temples and leaving the house is what is said to protect others and protect himself.
Now Chengtang no longer receives sacrifices, and the Yin people have no heirs. Your Majesty's heirs have been in decline for a long time, and it is also because of this.
"Spring and Autumn Classic" says: The Song Dynasty killed its officials.
"Gu Liang" said: The reason why he is not called by his first name is because he is in the position of his ancestors, and it is to show respect.
This means that Confucius was originally a descendant of the Yin Shang Dynasty. Although it is not orthodox, it is appropriate for etiquette to confer the title of Yin on his descendants.
Why?
The princes can forcibly change their ancestral sons, and the saints can forcibly change their legitimate sons.
Ancient books say that the descendants of virtuous people should be granted land. Moreover, Confucius was a saint, so he was a descendant of the Yin and Shang Dynasties!
In the early years of the Western Zhou Dynasty, King Cheng of Zhou buried the Duke of Zhou in accordance with the etiquette of the princes. However, the emperor was angry, thunderstorms and strong winds caused all the crops to fall down, and the big trees were uprooted.
Now, the temple of Confucius cannot be left in his hometown, and the descendants of Confucius will inevitably become people with registered households, allowing the saints to enjoy the sacrifices of ordinary people. This is not the original intention of the emperor.
Now if your majesty can really reward Confucius' descendants based on his merits as a prime king, then the country will definitely receive the blessings of Confucius, and your majesty's reputation will be passed down to eternity like heaven.
Why is this?
There is no legal regulation when it comes to tracing the merits of a saint and rewarding his descendants. The saints of later generations will definitely follow creation as a rule.
If you can gain immortal fame by doing this, how can you not work hard?
Meifu was alone, far away from the court, and ridiculed his relative Wang, so in the end he was not summoned and his suggestions were not adopted.
At the beginning, when Emperor Wu was on the throne, Ji Jia, a descendant of the Zhou Dynasty, was named Zhou Zinanjun. By the time of Emperor Yuan, Zhou Zinanjun was honored as Zhou Chengxiuhou, whose status was second only to the princes and kings.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
使诸大夫博士求殷后，分散为十余姓，郡国往往得其大家，推求子孙，绝不能纪。
时，匡衡议，以为 王者存二王后，所以尊其先王而通三统也。
其犯诛绝之罪者绝，而更封他亲为始封君，上承其王者之始祖。
《春秋》之义，诸侯不能守其社稷者绝。
今宋国已不守其统而失国矣，则宜更立殷后为始封君，而上承汤统，非当继宋之绝侯也，宜明得殷后而已。
今之故宋，推求其嫡，久远不可得；虽得其嫡，嫡之先已绝，不当得立。
《礼记》孔子曰： 丘，殷人也。
先师所共传，宜以孔子世为汤后。
上以其语不经，遂见寝。
至成帝时，梅福复言宜封孔子后以奉汤祀。
绥和元年，立二王后，推迹古文，以《左氏》、《穀梁》、《世本》、《礼记》相明，遂下诏封孔子世为殷绍嘉公。
语在《成纪》。
是时，福居家，常以读书养性为事。
至元始中，王莽颛政，福一朝弃妻子，去九江，至今传以为仙。
其后，人有见福于会稽者，变名姓，为吴市门卒云。云敞字幼孺，平陵人也。
师事同县吴章，章治《尚书经》为博士。
平帝以中山王即帝位，年幼，莽秉政，自号安汉公。
以平帝为成帝后，不得顾私亲，帝母及外家卫氏皆留中山，不得至京师。
莽长子宇，非莽隔绝卫氏，恐帝长大后见怨。
宇与吴章谋，夜以血涂莽门，若鬼神之戒，冀以惧莽。
章欲因对其咎。
事发觉，莽杀宇，诛灭卫氏，谋所联及，死者百余人。
translation: 
They sent doctors and doctors to search for the descendants of the Yin people, and they were scattered into more than a dozen surnames. The counties and counties often found large families descended from the Yin people, but when calculating the descendants, they could not figure out the seniority.
At that time, Kuang Heng argued that the king should confer the title of vassal king to the descendants of the Yin and Zhou dynasties. This was Zhengshuo who respected their ancestors' holy kings and connected the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties.
If his descendants are exterminated due to the crime of punishing the family, he will change the title of other relatives to be the first king, and inherit the ancestor of the king.
The meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is that those princes who cannot guard their country will be exterminated.
Now that the Song Dynasty has failed to abide by its legacy and lost its feudal state, it should change to establish other descendants of the Yin Shang as the first feudal kings, and those who inherit the bloodline of Shang Tang should not inherit the feudal title that was cut off by the Song Kingdom. They should be explicitly ordered to find the descendants of the Yin Shang.
Nowadays, it is deduced that it is difficult to find the direct descendants of the Song State for a long time; even if the direct descendants of the Song State can be found, the country of their ancestors has long been extinct, and they should not be regarded as the successors of the Yin and Shang Dynasties.
"Book of Rites" records Confucius' remarks: Confucius is a descendant of the Yin people.
The previous teachers taught it this way, and the descendants of Confucius should be the descendants of Shang Tang.
The emperor thought that what Kuang Heng said was not in line with the scriptures, so he kept his memorial in the palace without issuing it.
When he became emperor, Mei Fu wrote another letter saying that the descendants of Confucius should be named to inherit Shangtang's sacrifices.
In the first year of Suihe, he established the descendants of the two kings as kings of princes. He deduced and traced the traces of ancient written records and verified each other with "Zuo Zhuan", "Gu Liang Zhuan", "Shiben" and "Book of Rites", so he issued an edict to confer the descendants of Confucius as the Duke of Yin Shao.
The words are in "Chronicles of Emperor Cheng".
At this time, Mei Fu lived at home and often took reading and self-cultivation as his job.
During the Yuanshi period, when Wang Mang was in power, Mei Fu abandoned his wife and children one morning and went to Jiujiang. It is now said that he became a god.
After that, someone saw him in Kuaiji County. He changed his name and worked as a market servant in Wu County. Yunchang, named Youru, was born in Pingling.
He worshiped Wu Zhang, a native of the same county, as his teacher. Wu Zhang studied "Shang Shu Jing" and became a doctor.
Emperor Ping ascended the throne from the King of Zhongshan. He was young, and Wang Mang controlled the affairs of the state, with the white title of Anhan Gong.
With Emperor Ping as the heir of the emperor, Emperor Ping could no longer take care of his relatives. His mother, maternal grandparents, and uncle's Wei family all stayed in Zhongshan Kingdom and could not go to the capital Chang'an.
Wang Mang's eldest son, Wang Zi, blamed Wang Mang for isolating the Wei family and worried that Emperor Ping would be resentful when he grew up.
Wang Yu and Wu Zhang conspired to smear blood on Wang Mang's door late at night, pretending to be a warning from ghosts and gods, in an attempt to frighten Wang Mang.
Wu Zhang planned to take the opportunity to point out Wang Mang's fault in countermeasures.
After the incident was discovered, Wang Mang killed his son Wang Yu and executed the Wei family. Everyone involved in the conspiracy was imprisoned and more than a hundred people were executed.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
章坐要斩，磔尸东市门。
初，章为当世名儒，教授尤盛，弟子千余人，莽以为恶人党，皆当禁锢，不得仕宦。
门人尽更名他师。
敞时为大司徒掾，自劾吴章弟子，收抱章尸归，棺敛葬之，京师称焉。
车骑将军王舜高其志节，比之栾布，表奏以为掾，荐为中郎谏大夫。
莽篡位，王舜为太师，复荐敞可辅职。
以病免。
唐林言敞可典郡，擢为鲁郡大尹。
更始时，安车征敞为御史大夫，复病免去，卒于家。
赞曰： 昔仲尼称不得中行，则思狂狷。
观杨王孙之志，贤于秦始皇远矣。
世称朱云多过其实，故曰： 盖有不知而作之者，我亡是也。
胡建临敌敢断，武昭于外。
斩伐奸隙，军旅不队。
梅福之辞，合于《大雅》，虽无老成，尚有典刑；殷监不远，夏后所闻。
遂从所好，全性市门。
云敞之义，著于吴章，为仁由己，再入大府，清则濯缨，何远之有？
translation: 
Wu Zhang was cut in half and his body was quartered at Shushi Gate.
At the beginning, Wu Zhang was a famous Confucian in the world. He was particularly famous as a professor of "Shangshu" and had more than a thousand disciples. Wang Mang regarded them as a group of evil people, and they were all condemned and imprisoned, and they were not allowed to be officials.
As a result, Wu Zhang's disciples all accepted other people as their teachers and kept secret that they were Wu Zhang's disciples.
Yun Chang was serving as Chief Situ at that time. He admitted that he was Wu Zhang's disciple. He collected Wu Zhang's body and returned home. He bought a coffin for burial and everyone in the capital praised him.
Wang Shun, the general of chariot and cavalry, admired his ambition and integrity and compared him to Le Bu. He petitioned the emperor to approve Yun Chang's appointment as his subordinate, and later recommended him as Zhonglang's admonition to the doctor.
After Wang Mang usurped the throne, Wang Shun was appointed as the Grand Master and recommended Yun Chang to be appointed as the assistant minister.
Yun Chang said he was ill and was exempted from official duties.
Tang Lin said that Yun Chang could be in charge of the county's political affairs, so Wang Mang promoted him to Dayin of Lu County.
At the beginning of the revolution, the imperial court used an automobile to recruit Yunchang to serve as the imperial censor. He resigned due to illness and later died at home.
Zanri: In the past, Confucius said that if you can't meet a mediocre person and discuss the Tao with him, you should think about making progress and do nothing.
Looking at Yang Wangsun's ambition, it is far better than Qin Shihuang's.
The world's praise of Zhu Yunduo is exaggerated, so the Analects of Confucius says: There may be people who do not know the situation and just describe it casually. I, Confucius, do not do this.
Hu Jian dared to make decisions when facing the enemy, and his bravery was evident externally.
Kill the evildoers so that the army will not be lazy.
Mei Fu's words are consistent with the Book of Songs.
Meifu finally followed her own preferences and preserved her temperament in Wuxian City.
Yun Chang's integrity was revealed from the burial of Wu Zhang. He did benevolent and righteous deeds by himself, first as a great situ, and then as a general of chariots and cavalry. When there was trouble, he became an official, and when there was chaos, he lived in seclusion. His approach was very different from "Chu Ci".


