Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 3, 5, 10]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
老子曰： 至治之极，邻国相望，鸡狗之声相闻，民各甘其食，美其服，安其俗，乐其业，至老死不相往来。
必用此为务，輓近世涂民耳目，则几无行矣。
太史公曰：夫神农以前，吾不知已。
至若诗书所述虞夏以来，耳目欲极声色之好，口欲穷刍豢之味，身安逸乐，而心夸矜埶能之荣。
使俗之渐民久矣，虽户说以眇论，终不能化。
故善者因之，其次利道之，其次教诲之，其次整齐之，最下者与之争。
夫山西饶材、竹、穀、纑、旄、玉石；山东多鱼、盐、漆、丝、声色；江南出棻、梓、姜、桂、金、锡、连、丹沙、犀、玳瑁、珠玑、齿革；龙门、碣石北多马、牛、羊、旃裘、筋角；铜、铁则千里往往山出釭置：此其大较也。
皆中国人民所喜好，谣俗被服饮食奉生送死之具也。
故待农而食之，虞而出之，工而成之，商而通之。
此宁有政教发徵期会哉？
人各任其能，竭其力，以得所欲。
故物贱之徵贵，贵之徵贱，各劝其业，乐其事，若水之趋下，日夜无休时，不召而自来，不求而民出之。
岂非道之所符，而自然之验邪？
周书曰： 农不出则乏其食，工不出则乏其事，商不出则三宝绝，虞不出则财匮少。 财匮少而山泽不辟矣。
此四者，民所衣食之原也。
translation: 
Lao Tzu said: When the world is at its most prosperous, although neighboring countries can see each other and can hear the crows of cocks and dogs, the people of each country will consider their own food to be the most delicious and their own clothes to be the most beautiful. They will be content with the customs of their hometowns and love their own industries, and they will not interact with each other until they grow old and die.
In modern times, if we continue to act in this way, it will be equivalent to blocking the people's ears and eyes, and it will be almost impossible to work.
Tai Shigong said: I don’t know anything about Shennong’s past.
As for the situation since the Yu and Xia dynasties described in the "Poems" and "Books", the ears and eyes want to enjoy the beauty of music and female sex, the mouth wants to taste all kinds of meat and delicacies, and they live in debauchery and pleasure, and their hearts boast about the glory of power.
This evil custom has been used to infect the people for a long time. Even if you use Lao Tzu's wonderful theories to persuade and enlighten them door to door, you will never be able to change them.
So the best way is to let nature take its course, the second is to take advantage of the situation, the third is to educate them, the third is to correct their behavior, and the worst way is to fight with them.
The west of Mount Wei is rich in wood, bamboo, mulberry, wild hemp, oxtail, and jade; the east of Mount Mount is rich in fish, salt, lacquer, silk, and beauties; the south of the Yangtze River is rich in nanmu, catalpa, ginger, osmanthus, gold, tin, lead, cinnabar, Rhinoceros, tortoise shells, beads, and ivory skins; Longmen and the area north of Jieshi Mountain are rich in horses, cattle, sheep, felt fur, animal sinews and horns; copper and iron are distributed thousands of miles around, and the mountains are everywhere, like chess pieces.
This is the general situation about the distribution of products in various places. These are the things that the Chinese people like and use to wear, eat, maintain health, and prepare for death.
Therefore, people rely on farmers to cultivate and obtain food, they rely on Yu people to mine in the mountains and fishermen to hunt in the water to obtain items, they rely on craftsmen to manufacture and obtain utensils, and they rely on merchants to trade and circulate goods.
Does this still require the government to issue a decree, recruit people, and gather within a time limit?
People rely on their own talents and do their best to satisfy their own desires.
Therefore, low-priced goods can be sold at high prices, and high-priced goods can be purchased at low prices. People work hard at their own business and are happy to do their own work, just like water flowing from high to low. Day and night without end, they will come automatically without being called, and they will be produced without asking.
Isn’t this proof that it follows the laws and develops naturally?
"Book of Zhou" says: If farmers don't farm, there will be a shortage of food; if craftsmen don't work and produce, there will be a shortage of utensils; if merchants don't do business, the three treasures of food, use, and money will be cut off; if the Yu people don't develop mountains and rivers, there will be a shortage of resources. If resources are scarce, mountains and rivers cannot be further developed.
The four fields of agriculture, industry, commerce, and agriculture are the sources of food and clothing for the people.

summary:
summary line 0: It argues that human desires for pleasure, wealth, and power are deeply ingrained and cannot be changed by persuasion. The best governance, therefore, is to let nature take its course, followed by guiding, educating, and correcting, with conflict as the last resort.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
老子曰： 至治之极，邻国相望，鸡狗之声相闻，民各甘其食，美其服，安其俗，乐其业，至老死不相往来。
必用此为务，輓近世涂民耳目，则几无行矣。
太史公曰：夫神农以前，吾不知已。
至若诗书所述虞夏以来，耳目欲极声色之好，口欲穷刍豢之味，身安逸乐，而心夸矜埶能之荣。
使俗之渐民久矣，虽户说以眇论，终不能化。
故善者因之，其次利道之，其次教诲之，其次整齐之，最下者与之争。
夫山西饶材、竹、穀、纑、旄、玉石；山东多鱼、盐、漆、丝、声色；江南出棻、梓、姜、桂、金、锡、连、丹沙、犀、玳瑁、珠玑、齿革；龙门、碣石北多马、牛、羊、旃裘、筋角；铜、铁则千里往往山出釭置：此其大较也。
皆中国人民所喜好，谣俗被服饮食奉生送死之具也。
故待农而食之，虞而出之，工而成之，商而通之。
此宁有政教发徵期会哉？
人各任其能，竭其力，以得所欲。
故物贱之徵贵，贵之徵贱，各劝其业，乐其事，若水之趋下，日夜无休时，不召而自来，不求而民出之。
岂非道之所符，而自然之验邪？
周书曰： 农不出则乏其食，工不出则乏其事，商不出则三宝绝，虞不出则财匮少。 财匮少而山泽不辟矣。
此四者，民所衣食之原也。
translation: 
Lao Tzu said: When the world is at its most prosperous, although neighboring countries can see each other and can hear the crows of cocks and dogs, the people of each country will consider their own food to be the most delicious and their own clothes to be the most beautiful. They will be content with the customs of their hometowns and love their own industries, and they will not interact with each other until they grow old and die.
In modern times, if we continue to act in this way, it will be equivalent to blocking the people's ears and eyes, and it will be almost impossible to work.
Tai Shigong said: I don’t know anything about Shennong’s past.
As for the situation since the Yu and Xia dynasties described in the "Poems" and "Books", the ears and eyes want to enjoy the beauty of music and female sex, the mouth wants to taste all kinds of meat and delicacies, and they live in debauchery and pleasure, and their hearts boast about the glory of power.
This evil custom has been used to infect the people for a long time. Even if you use Lao Tzu's wonderful theories to persuade and enlighten them door to door, you will never be able to change them.
So the best way is to let nature take its course, the second is to take advantage of the situation, the third is to educate them, the third is to correct their behavior, and the worst way is to fight with them.
The west of Mount Wei is rich in wood, bamboo, mulberry, wild hemp, oxtail, and jade; the east of Mount Mount is rich in fish, salt, lacquer, silk, and beauties; the south of the Yangtze River is rich in nanmu, catalpa, ginger, osmanthus, gold, tin, lead, cinnabar, Rhinoceros, tortoise shells, beads, and ivory skins; Longmen and the area north of Jieshi Mountain are rich in horses, cattle, sheep, felt fur, animal sinews and horns; copper and iron are distributed thousands of miles around, and the mountains are everywhere, like chess pieces.
This is the general situation about the distribution of products in various places. These are the things that the Chinese people like and use to wear, eat, maintain health, and prepare for death.
Therefore, people rely on farmers to cultivate and obtain food, they rely on Yu people to mine in the mountains and fishermen to hunt in the water to obtain items, they rely on craftsmen to manufacture and obtain utensils, and they rely on merchants to trade and circulate goods.
Does this still require the government to issue a decree, recruit people, and gather within a time limit?
People rely on their own talents and do their best to satisfy their own desires.
Therefore, low-priced goods can be sold at high prices, and high-priced goods can be purchased at low prices. People work hard at their own business and are happy to do their own work, just like water flowing from high to low. Day and night without end, they will come automatically without being called, and they will be produced without asking.
Isn’t this proof that it follows the laws and develops naturally?
"Book of Zhou" says: If farmers don't farm, there will be a shortage of food; if craftsmen don't work and produce, there will be a shortage of utensils; if merchants don't do business, the three treasures of food, use, and money will be cut off; if the Yu people don't develop mountains and rivers, there will be a shortage of resources. If resources are scarce, mountains and rivers cannot be further developed.
The four fields of agriculture, industry, commerce, and agriculture are the sources of food and clothing for the people.

summary:
summary line 1: The text then describes the natural distribution of resources across different regions of China, from the west of Mount Wei to the east of Mount Tai, the south of the Yangtze River, and the north of Longmen. It explains that people rely on farmers, miners, fishermen, craftsmen, and merchants to meet their needs, and that this economic activity occurs naturally without government decree, driven by self-interest and the pursuit of profit. The "Book of Zhou" is cited to emphasize that agriculture, industry, commerce, and resource extraction are the four pillars of a nation's wealth.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
原大则饶，原小则鲜。上则富国，下则富家。
贫富之道，莫之夺予，而巧者有馀，拙者不足。
故太公望封於营丘，地潟卤，人民寡，於是太公劝其女功，极技巧，通鱼盐，则人物归之，繦至而辐凑。
故齐冠带衣履天下，海岱之间敛袂而往朝焉。
其後齐中衰，管子修之，设轻重九府，则桓公以霸，九合诸侯，一匡天下；而管氏亦有三归，位在陪臣，富於列国之君。
是以齐富彊至於威、宣也。
故曰： 仓廪实而知礼节，衣食足而知荣辱。
礼生於有而废於无。
故君子富，好行其德；小人富，以適其力。
渊深而鱼生之，山深而兽往之，人富而仁义附焉。
富者得埶益彰，失埶则客无所之，以而不乐。
夷狄益甚。
谚曰： 千金之子，不死於市。
此非空言也。
故曰： 天下熙熙，皆为利来；天下攘攘，皆为利往。
夫千乘之王，万家之侯，百室之君，尚犹患贫，而况匹夫编户之民乎！
昔者越王勾践困於会稽之上，乃用范蠡、计然。
计然曰： 知斗则修备，时用则知物，二者形则万货之情可得而观已。故岁在金，穰；水，毁；木，饥；火，旱。
旱则资舟，水则资车，物之理也。
六岁穰，六岁旱，十二岁一大饥。
夫粜，二十病农，九十病末。
末病则财不出，农病则草不辟矣。
上不过八十，下不减三十，则农末俱利，平粜齐物，关市不乏，治国之道也。
积著之理，务完物，无息币。
以物相贸易，腐败而食之货勿留，无敢居贵。
论其有馀不足，则知贵贱。贵上极则反贱，贱下极则反贵。
贵出如粪土，贱取如珠玉。
财币欲其行如流水。
translation: 
If the source is large, the country will be rich; if the source is small, the country will be poor; if the source is large, it can make the country rich and strong, and if it is small, it can make the family rich.
Rich or poor, no one can take away or give to others, but smart people always have more than enough wealth, while stupid people often have insufficient food and clothing.
Therefore, when Jiang Taigong was sealed in Yingqiu, it was mostly saline-alkali land and sparsely populated. So Jiang Taigong encouraged women to devote themselves to textile and embroidery, strongly promoted craft skills, and asked people to transport fish and sea salt back to other areas. As a result, people and property from other countries flowed back to Qi State, like ropes connected to each other, in an endless stream, like the spokes of a car gathered at the hub, gathering there from all directions.
Therefore, because Qi State can make crowns, belts, clothes and shoes for the world, the princes from the East China Sea and Mount Tai all dress up and go to Qi State to worship.
Later, when the state of Qi declined, Guan Zhong re-established Jiang Taigong's career and established nine offices to manage finances, allowing Duke Huan of Qi to dominate. He joined the princes as the overlord many times and rectified the world's politics. Guan Zhong himself also had three returns. Although his official position was only that of a minister, he was richer than the monarchs of other countries.
From then on, Qi became prosperous and strong until the era of King Wei and King Xuan.
Therefore, it is said: If the warehouse is abundant, one will know etiquette; if one has sufficient food and clothing, one will know honor and disgrace.
Ritual comes from wealth and is discarded from poverty.
Therefore, when a gentleman is rich, he likes to do virtuous things; when common people are rich, they will do what they can.
When rivers are deep, fish will live in them; when mountains and forests are deep, wild animals will hide there; when a person is rich, benevolence and righteousness will benefit him.
When a rich man gains power, he becomes more prominent, but when he loses power, the guests who rely on him will have nowhere to stay, so they will feel unhappy.
In Yi Di, this situation is even more prominent.
The proverb says: A person with a rich family will not break the law and be punished and die in a busy city.
This is not empty talk.
Therefore, it is said: People in the world are bustling with each other, all coming and leaving for profit.
Those kings who own thousands of chariots, the princes who enjoy the fiefdoms of ten thousand households, and the officials who own hundreds of fiefdoms. If you are worried that you will become poor, let alone the ordinary people who are registered in the household registration!
Once upon a time, King Gou Jian of Yue was besieged on Kuaiji Mountain, so he appointed Fan Li and Ji Ran.
If you are good at comparing time and usage, you can clearly see the supply and demand of various goods. Therefore, when the year is in gold, there will be a good harvest; when it is in water, there will be a poor harvest; when it is in wood, there will be famine; when it is in fire, there will be drought.
When there is a drought, boats must be prepared to wait for floods; when there are floods, vehicles must be prepared for drought. This is in line with the laws of development of things.
Generally speaking, there is a good harvest every six years, a drought every six years, and a great famine every twelve years.
If grain is sold for 20 qian per dou, farmers will suffer losses; if the price is 90 qian per dou, merchants will suffer losses.
If businessmen suffer losses, money cannot circulate to society; if farmers suffer losses, their fields will become barren.
The maximum price of grain per bucket should not exceed eighty yuan and the minimum price should not be less than thirty yuan, so both farmers and businessmen can benefit. Selling food at a fair price, stabilizing and adjusting the prices of other commodities, and ensuring that there is no shortage of customs tax revenue and market supply is the way to govern a country.
As for the stored goods, they should be in good condition and reliable, and there should be no stranded monetary funds.
When buying and selling goods, do not hide items that are susceptible to corruption and corrosion for a long time, and do not risk hoarding them in order to get a higher price.
If you study the situation of surplus or shortage of goods, you will understand the reason why prices rise and fall. If the price reaches the extreme, it will return to dependence; if the price reaches the extreme, it will return to the expensive side.
When goods are extremely expensive, they should be sold in time and treated as dirt; when goods are extremely expensive, they should be purchased in time and treated as jewelry.
The circulation of goods and coins should be like running water.

summary:
summary line 2: Historical examples illustrate the principles of wealth creation. Jiang Taigong turned the barren, sparsely populated state of Qi into a prosperous center of trade and manufacturing by encouraging textile production and commerce. Later, Guan Zhong continued this work, enabling Duke Huan of Qi to become a hegemon. The text emphasizes that a full granary leads to knowledge of etiquette, and that wealth enables virtuous behavior. It also details the strategies of Ji Ran, who advised King Gou Jian of Yue on managing resources and prices based on cyclical patterns of good and bad years, leading to Yue's wealth and eventual victory over Wu. Fan Li, who implemented these strategies, later applied them to personal business, becoming immensely wealthy as Tao Zhugong.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
欲长钱，取下穀；长石斗，取上种。
能薄饮食，忍嗜欲，节衣服，与用事僮仆同苦乐，趋时若猛兽挚鸟之发。
故曰： 吾治生产，犹伊尹、吕尚之谋，孙吴用兵，商鞅行法是也。
是故其智不足与权变，勇不足以决断，仁不能以取予，彊不能有所守，虽欲学吾术，终不告之矣。
盖天下言治生祖白圭。
白圭其有所试矣，能试有所长，非苟而已也。
猗顿用盬盐起。
而邯郸郭纵以铁冶成业，与王者埒富。
乌氏倮畜牧，及众，斥卖，求奇缯物，间献遗戎王。
戎王什倍其偿，与之畜，畜至用谷量马牛。
秦始皇帝令倮比封君，以时与列臣朝请。
而巴寡妇清，其先得丹穴，而擅其利数世，家亦不訾。
清，寡妇也，能守其业，用财自卫，不见侵犯。
秦皇帝以为贞妇而客之，为筑女怀清台。
夫倮鄙人牧长，清穷乡寡妇，礼抗万乘，名显天下，岂非以富邪？
汉兴，海内为一，开关梁，弛山泽之禁，是以富商大贾周流天下，交易之物莫不通，得其所欲，而徙豪杰诸侯彊族於京师。
关中自汧、雍以东至河、华，膏壤沃野千里，自虞夏之贡以为上田，而公刘適邠，大王、王季在岐，文王作丰，武王治镐，故其民犹有先王之遗风，好稼穑，殖五穀，地重，重为邪。
及秦文、缪居雍，隙陇蜀之货物而多贾。
translation: 
If he wanted to increase his financial income, he would buy inferior grain; if he wanted to increase the weight of each bushel of grain, he would buy the best grain.
He can not pay attention to food and drink, control his hobbies, save on clothing, share the joys and sorrows with his hired servants, and seize opportunities to make money as quickly as beasts of prey seize food.
Therefore, he said: I do business to get rich, just like Yi Yin and Lu Shang planned strategies, like Sun Tzu and Wu Qi in using military tactics, and like Shang Yang in promoting reforms.
Therefore, if a person is not wise enough to adapt to changes, courageous enough to make decisive decisions, benevolent enough to make correct choices, and strong enough to persist, even if he wants to learn my skills in doing business and getting rich, I will not teach him.
Therefore, people all over the world follow Bai Gui's example when talking about how to get rich in business.
Bai Gui probably tried something, and he was able to achieve something by trying. This is not something that can be done casually.
Yidun started his business by operating Chiyan.
However, Guo Zong of Handan built his family business by smelting iron, and his wealth was comparable to that of princes.
There was a famous man in Wushi County who was engaged in animal husbandry. When the livestock multiplied in large numbers, he sold them all, then purchased various strange things and silk fabrics, and secretly presented them to King Rong.
King Rong gave him ten times the amount of the things he had donated, and gave him livestock. The livestock were so numerous that the number of cattle and horses was measured in the valley.
Qin Shihuang decreed that Wu Shiluo's status should be the same as that of the feudal lord, and he should go to the palace to pay homage with other ministers at the specified time.
However, the ancestors of Widow Qing of Bajun obtained the cinnabar mine and monopolized its profits for several generations, and their family property was also numerous.
Qing is a widow who can keep her ancestors' family property and use money to protect herself from being invaded by others.
Qin Shihuang thought she was a chaste woman and treated her as a guest. He also built a female concubine Qingtai for her.
Wu Shiluo was just a humble man from the frontier and a master of livestock. Widow Qing of Bajun was a widow from a poor country, but she could stand up to a monarch with thousands of military chariots and become famous all over the world. Isn't this relying on their wealth?
With the rise of the Han Dynasty and the unification of the world, they opened up key roads and lifted the ban on mining mountains and rivers. As a result, wealthy merchants and merchants were able to travel around the world, and all goods traded were smooth, and their desires were satisfied. The Han government also moved heroes, princes, and wealthy families to the capital.
The Guanzhong area stretches from Qian and Yong counties to the east to the Yellow River and Huashan, with fertile soil and fields covering thousands of miles in radius. From the time when the Yu clan and the Xia Hou clan paid tribute, this land was classified as high-quality land. Later Gong Liu moved to Pi, King Tai and Wang Ji of Zhou moved to Qishan, King Wen of Zhou built Fengyi, and King Wu of Zhou governed Haojing. Therefore, the people in these places still have the legacy of their ancestors. They like farming, plant grains, attach great importance to the land, and take doing bad things very seriously.
Until Qin Wen Gong, De Gong, and Mu Gong established their capital in Yongyi, it was located on the main road for the exchange of goods between Long and Shu, so there were many merchants.

summary:
summary line 3: The text profiles several other successful individuals, including Bai Gui, who mastered market timing and price speculation; Yi Dun, who made a fortune from salt; and Guo Zong, who profited from iron smelting. It also notes the rise of Wu Shiluo, a livestock trader who gained favor with King Rong and was later honored by Qin Shi Huang, and Widow Qing of Bajun, who maintained her family's cinnabar monopoly and was also respected by the emperor. These examples demonstrate that wealth can elevate even humble individuals to a status comparable to feudal lords.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
然邯郸亦漳、河之间一都会也。
北通燕、涿，南有郑、卫。
郑、卫俗与赵相类，然近梁、鲁，微重而矜节。
濮上之邑徙野王，野王好气任侠，卫之风也。
夫燕亦勃、碣之间一都会也。
南通齐、赵，东北边胡。
上谷至辽东，地踔远，人民希，数被寇，大与赵、代俗相类，而民雕捍少虑，有鱼盐枣栗之饶。
北邻乌桓、夫馀，东绾秽貉、朝鲜、真番之利。
洛阳东贾齐、鲁，南贾梁、楚。
故泰山之阳则鲁，其阴则齐。
齐带山海，膏壤千里，宜桑麻，人民多文采布帛鱼盐。
临菑亦海岱之间一都会也。
其俗宽缓阔达，而足智，好议论，地重，难动摇，怯於众斗，勇於持刺，故多劫人者，大国之风也。
其中具五民。
而邹、鲁滨洙、泗，犹有周公遗风，俗好儒，备於礼，故其民龊龊。
颇有桑麻之业，无林泽之饶。
地小人众，俭啬，畏罪远邪。
及其衰，好贾趋利，甚於周人。
夫自鸿沟以东，芒、砀以北，属巨野，此梁、宋也。
陶、睢阳亦一都会也。
昔尧作成阳，舜渔於雷泽，汤止于亳。
其俗犹有先王遗风，重厚多君子，好稼穑，虽无山川之饶，能恶衣食，致其蓄藏。
越、楚则有三俗。
夫自淮北沛、陈、汝南、南郡，此西楚也。
其俗剽轻，易发怒，地薄，寡於积聚。
江陵故郢都，西通巫、巴，东有云梦之饶。
陈在楚夏之交，通鱼盐之货，其民多贾。
translation: 
However, Handan is also a city between Zhangshui and the Yellow River.
It connects Yan and Zhuo to the north, and Zheng and Wei to the south.
The customs of Zheng and Wei are similar to those of Zhao, but they are close to Liang and Lu, and the people are a little more solemn and pay attention to moral integrity.
Wei Yuanjun moved from Diqiu, the city of Pushang, to Yewang. The people in the Yewang area liked fighting spirit and allowed chivalrous people to commit crimes, which was a legacy of the Wei Dynasty.
Ji, the ancient capital of Yan State, is also a city between Bohai Sea and Jieshi Mountain.
It borders Qi and Zhao in the south, and borders the Hu people in the northeast.
The area from Shanggu to Liaodong is far away, sparsely populated, and has been repeatedly invaded. The folk customs are generally similar to those in the Zhao and Dai areas, but the people are agile and fierce, lacking in thought. The local area is rich in fish, salt, dates, and chestnuts.
It is adjacent to Wuhuan and Fuyu to the north, and is in a favorable position to control Guhugu, Korea and Zhenfan to the east.
If you go east from Luoyang, you can do business in Qi and Lu, and if you go south, you can do business in Liang and Chu.
Therefore, the southern part of Mount Tai is the hometown of Lu State, and the northern part is the hometown of Qi State.
The land is surrounded by mountains and seas, and there is fertile soil for thousands of miles, suitable for growing mulberry and hemp. The people have many colorful silks, cloth and fish salt.
Linzi is also a city between the East China Sea and Mount Tai.
The local folk customs are tolerant and open-minded, but also resourceful and love to talk. They have strong local values ​​and are not easy to drift out. They are timid in gathering crowds to fight, but dare to hurt others secretly. Therefore, they often rob other people's property. This is the custom of a big country.
Here there are all kinds of people including scholars, farmers, workers, merchants and businessmen.
Zou and Lu are adjacent to the Zhu River and the Sishui River, and still retain the legacy of Zhou Gong. The folk customs favor Confucianism and complete etiquette, so the local people are cautious and restrained.
Many people are engaged in the mulberry and hemp industry, but do not have the resources of mountains, forests, and rivers.
The land is small and the population is large. People are stingy, afraid of crime, and avoid evil.
When it declines, people like to do business and pursue wealth, which is even more powerful than the people in the surrounding areas.
From the east of Honggou, to the north of Mangshan and Dangshan, to Juye, this was the hometown of Liang and Song Dynasties.
Taoyi and Suiyang are also cities.
In the past, Tang Yao rose up in Chengyang, Yu Shun fished in Leize, and Shang Tang established his capital in Hao.
The folk customs here still have the legacy of the previous kings. They are generous and dignified, and there are many gentlemen who like farming. Although there are no rich mountains and rivers, people can live frugally in order to accumulate wealth.
The Yue and Chu regions have different customs from the three regions of Western Chu, Eastern Chu and Southern Chu.
From Peijun in Huaibei to Chenjun, Runan, and Nanjun, this is the Western Chu region.
The folk customs here are strong and agile, easy to anger, the land is barren, and there is little accumulation of wealth.
Jiangling was originally the capital of Chu State, connected to Wu County and Ba County in the west, and Yunmeng in the east, which was rich in products.
Chen is at the junction of Chu and Xia, where fish and salt goods are circulated, and most of the residents are merchants.

summary:
summary line 4: The text then surveys the economic geography and customs of various regions under the Han Dynasty, from the fertile Guanzhong area to the remote Bashu region, and from the central plains of Hedong, Hanoi, and Henan to the northern frontiers of Yan and Dai. It describes how local products, trade routes, and historical legacies shape the economic activities and social character of each area. For instance, the people of Qi are resourceful and love to talk, while those of Zou and Lu are cautious and favor Confucian etiquette. The text concludes that all people, whether officials, merchants, farmers, or outlaws, are ultimately driven by the pursuit of wealth.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
宣曲任氏之先，为督道仓吏。
秦之败也，豪杰皆争取金玉，而任氏独窖仓粟。
楚汉相距荥阳也，民不得耕种，米石至万，而豪杰金玉尽归任氏，任氏以此起富。
富人争奢侈，而任氏折节为俭，力田畜。
田畜人争取贱贾，任氏独取贵善。
富者数世。
然任公家约，非田畜所出弗衣食，公事不毕则身不得饮酒食肉。
以此为闾里率，故富而主上重之。
塞之斥也，唯桥姚已致马千匹，牛倍之，羊万头，粟以万锺计。
吴楚七国兵起时，长安中列侯封君行从军旅，赍贷子钱，子钱家以为侯邑国在关东，关东成败未决，莫肯与。
唯无盐氏出捐千金贷，其息什之。
三月，吴楚平，一岁之中，则无盐氏之息什倍，用此富埒关中。
关中富商大贾，大抵尽诸田，田啬、田兰。
韦家栗氏，安陵、杜杜氏，亦巨万。
此其章章尤异者也。
皆非有爵邑奉禄弄法犯奸而富，尽椎埋去就，与时俯仰，获其赢利，以末致财，用本守之，以武一切，用文持之，变化有概，故足术也。
若至力农畜，工虞商贾，为权利以成富，大者倾郡，中者倾县，下者倾乡里者，不可胜数。
夫纤啬筋力，治生之正道也，而富者必用奇胜。
田农，掘业，而秦扬以盖一州。
掘冢，奸事也，而田叔以起。
博戏，恶业也，而桓发用富。
行贾，丈夫贱行也，而雍乐成以饶。
贩脂，辱处也，而雍伯千金。
卖浆，小业也，而张氏千万。
洒削，薄技也，而郅氏鼎食。
胃脯，简微耳，浊氏连骑。
马医，浅方，张里击锺。
此皆诚壹之所致。
由是观之，富无经业，则货无常主，能者辐凑，不肖者瓦解。
千金之家比一都之君，巨万者乃与王者同乐。
translation: 
The ancestor of the Ren family in Xuanqu was a guard in charge of Daocang.
When the Qin Dynasty was defeated, the heroes all competed for gold, silver and jewels, while the Ren family alone used the cellar to store rice and millet.
Later, the armies of Chu and Han were at war in Xingyang. Farmers were unable to cultivate their fields. The price of rice rose to ten thousand yuan per stone. Ren made a fortune by selling grain. All the gold, silver and jewelry of the heroes belonged to Ren, and Ren made a fortune.
Most wealthy people strive for luxury, but the Ren family is submissive, advocating frugality, and devoting themselves to farmland and animal husbandry.
Most people compete to buy fields and livestock at low prices, but Ren specializes in buying expensive and good ones.
The Ren family has been wealthy for generations.
However, the Ren family's family contract stipulates that they cannot wear or eat items that are not obtained from their own farming and raising livestock, and they are not allowed to drink alcohol or eat meat until their official duties are completed.
He set an example for his fellow villagers, so he was rich and the emperor respected him.
When the frontier areas were opened up, only Qiao Yao obtained a thousand horses, two thousand cattle, ten thousand sheep, and tens of thousands of grains.
When the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled against the central court of the Han Dynasty, the princes and princes in Chang'an wanted to go out for the army and needed to borrow money with interest. The loan sharks believed that the princes and princes' food capitals were all in Guandong, and the outcome of the war in Guandong had not yet been decided, so no one was willing to lend them money.
Only the Wuyan clan loaned them thousands of gold, and the interest was ten times the principal.
Three months later, Wu Chu was pacified. In one year, the Wuyan family received ten times the interest on their principal, making them as wealthy as the wealthy people in Guanzhong.
Most of the wealthy businessmen in the Guanzhong area are from families named Tian, ​​such as Tian Si and Tian Lan.
There are also the Li family of the Wei family, the Du family of Anling and Du County, and their family assets also amount to tens of millions of money.
The above people are all famous and unique people.
None of them had titles, titles, salaries, or made fortunes by dancing, writing, or breaking laws. They all relied on speculation, making choices, adapting to circumstances, and making profits. They became rich by running commerce and industry, purchased land and engaged in agriculture to keep money, seized everything with various powerful means, and maintained it through written methods such as laws and decrees. The changes were like this, so it is worth recording.
As for those who devote themselves to agriculture, animal husbandry, handicrafts, mountains and forests, fishing and hunting, or business, they have become rich by virtue of their power and wealth. The big ones can overwhelm a county, the medium ones overwhelm a county, and the small ones overwhelm the villages. There are countless people.
Careful planning, hard work and frugality are the right ways to get rich, but those who want to get rich must also succeed unexpectedly.
Farming is a cumbersome industry, but Qin Yang relied on it to become the richest man in a state.
Tomb robbing was originally a criminal activity, but Uncle Tian made his fortune through it.
Gambling is a bad behavior, but Huan Fa made a fortune by relying on it.
Walking hawking is a despicable job for men, but Yong Lecheng made a fortune from it.
Selling grease was a shameful business, but Yong Bo made a fortune from it.
Selling water slurry was originally a small business, but Zhang made 10 million yuan from it.
Knife sharpening is a small craft, but the Zhi family relied on it to become rich and prosperous.
Selling sheep tripe was a trivial matter, but Zhuo became so rich through it that he could travel with horses and carriages.
Treating horses is a superficial skill, but Zhang Li became so rich by it that he struck the bell for food.
These people became rich because of their single-mindedness.
From this point of view, getting rich does not depend on a fixed industry, and wealth does not have a certain owner. People with skills can accumulate wealth, while people without skills will destroy their wealth.
A family with a thousand pieces of gold can be as good as the king of a city, and a rich man with a fortune of tens of millions can enjoy the same enjoyment as a king.

summary:
summary line 5: The final section provides a detailed account of various profitable enterprises and the individuals who excelled at them. It lists the annual output of goods—such as wine, vinegar, livestock, grain, and timber—that can generate wealth comparable to a noble household. It then profiles specific successful families, like the Zhuo family of Shu, who prospered through iron smelting after being relocated, and the Ren family of Xuanqu, who stored grain during a famine and became wealthy. The text emphasizes that wealth can be achieved through diverse means, from farming and commerce to seemingly humble trades like selling water or sharpening knives, and that success depends on skill and adaptability rather than a fixed profession. Ultimately, it asserts that a wealthy person can enjoy a status akin to a king, a condition it calls "Su Feng."

