Chunk 0: 
original: 
老子曰： 至治之极，邻国相望，鸡狗之声相闻，民各甘其食，美其服，安其俗，乐其业，至老死不相往来。
必用此为务，輓近世涂民耳目，则几无行矣。
太史公曰：夫神农以前，吾不知已。
至若诗书所述虞夏以来，耳目欲极声色之好，口欲穷刍豢之味，身安逸乐，而心夸矜埶能之荣。
使俗之渐民久矣，虽户说以眇论，终不能化。
故善者因之，其次利道之，其次教诲之，其次整齐之，最下者与之争。
夫山西饶材、竹、穀、纑、旄、玉石；山东多鱼、盐、漆、丝、声色；江南出棻、梓、姜、桂、金、锡、连、丹沙、犀、玳瑁、珠玑、齿革；龙门、碣石北多马、牛、羊、旃裘、筋角；铜、铁则千里往往山出釭置：此其大较也。
皆中国人民所喜好，谣俗被服饮食奉生送死之具也。
故待农而食之，虞而出之，工而成之，商而通之。
此宁有政教发徵期会哉？
人各任其能，竭其力，以得所欲。
故物贱之徵贵，贵之徵贱，各劝其业，乐其事，若水之趋下，日夜无休时，不召而自来，不求而民出之。
岂非道之所符，而自然之验邪？
周书曰： 农不出则乏其食，工不出则乏其事，商不出则三宝绝，虞不出则财匮少。 财匮少而山泽不辟矣。
此四者，民所衣食之原也。
translation: 
Lao Tzu said: When the world is at its most prosperous, although neighboring countries can see each other and can hear the crows of cocks and dogs, the people of each country will consider their own food to be the most delicious and their own clothes to be the most beautiful. They will be content with the customs of their hometowns and love their own industries, and they will not interact with each other until they grow old and die.
In modern times, if we continue to act in this way, it will be equivalent to blocking the people's ears and eyes, and it will be almost impossible to work.
Tai Shigong said: I don’t know anything about Shennong’s past.
As for the situation since the Yu and Xia dynasties described in the "Poems" and "Books", the ears and eyes want to enjoy the beauty of music and female sex, the mouth wants to taste all kinds of meat and delicacies, and they live in debauchery and pleasure, and their hearts boast about the glory of power.
This evil custom has been used to infect the people for a long time. Even if you use Lao Tzu's wonderful theories to persuade and enlighten them door to door, you will never be able to change them.
So the best way is to let nature take its course, the second is to take advantage of the situation, the third is to educate them, the third is to correct their behavior, and the worst way is to fight with them.
The west of Mount Wei is rich in wood, bamboo, mulberry, wild hemp, oxtail, and jade; the east of Mount Mount is rich in fish, salt, lacquer, silk, and beauties; the south of the Yangtze River is rich in nanmu, catalpa, ginger, osmanthus, gold, tin, lead, cinnabar, Rhinoceros, tortoise shells, beads, and ivory skins; Longmen and the area north of Jieshi Mountain are rich in horses, cattle, sheep, felt fur, animal sinews and horns; copper and iron are distributed thousands of miles around, and the mountains are everywhere, like chess pieces.
This is the general situation about the distribution of products in various places. These are the things that the Chinese people like and use to wear, eat, maintain health, and prepare for death.
Therefore, people rely on farmers to cultivate and obtain food, they rely on Yu people to mine in the mountains and fishermen to hunt in the water to obtain items, they rely on craftsmen to manufacture and obtain utensils, and they rely on merchants to trade and circulate goods.
Does this still require the government to issue a decree, recruit people, and gather within a time limit?
People rely on their own talents and do their best to satisfy their own desires.
Therefore, low-priced goods can be sold at high prices, and high-priced goods can be purchased at low prices. People work hard at their own business and are happy to do their own work, just like water flowing from high to low. Day and night without end, they will come automatically without being called, and they will be produced without asking.
Isn’t this proof that it follows the laws and develops naturally?
"Book of Zhou" says: If farmers don't farm, there will be a shortage of food; if craftsmen don't work and produce, there will be a shortage of utensils; if merchants don't do business, the three treasures of food, use, and money will be cut off; if the Yu people don't develop mountains and rivers, there will be a shortage of resources. If resources are scarce, mountains and rivers cannot be further developed.
The four fields of agriculture, industry, commerce, and agriculture are the sources of food and clothing for the people.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
原大则饶，原小则鲜。上则富国，下则富家。
贫富之道，莫之夺予，而巧者有馀，拙者不足。
故太公望封於营丘，地潟卤，人民寡，於是太公劝其女功，极技巧，通鱼盐，则人物归之，繦至而辐凑。
故齐冠带衣履天下，海岱之间敛袂而往朝焉。
其後齐中衰，管子修之，设轻重九府，则桓公以霸，九合诸侯，一匡天下；而管氏亦有三归，位在陪臣，富於列国之君。
是以齐富彊至於威、宣也。
故曰： 仓廪实而知礼节，衣食足而知荣辱。
礼生於有而废於无。
故君子富，好行其德；小人富，以適其力。
渊深而鱼生之，山深而兽往之，人富而仁义附焉。
富者得埶益彰，失埶则客无所之，以而不乐。
夷狄益甚。
谚曰： 千金之子，不死於市。
此非空言也。
故曰： 天下熙熙，皆为利来；天下攘攘，皆为利往。
夫千乘之王，万家之侯，百室之君，尚犹患贫，而况匹夫编户之民乎！
昔者越王勾践困於会稽之上，乃用范蠡、计然。
计然曰： 知斗则修备，时用则知物，二者形则万货之情可得而观已。故岁在金，穰；水，毁；木，饥；火，旱。
旱则资舟，水则资车，物之理也。
六岁穰，六岁旱，十二岁一大饥。
夫粜，二十病农，九十病末。
末病则财不出，农病则草不辟矣。
上不过八十，下不减三十，则农末俱利，平粜齐物，关市不乏，治国之道也。
积著之理，务完物，无息币。
以物相贸易，腐败而食之货勿留，无敢居贵。
论其有馀不足，则知贵贱。贵上极则反贱，贱下极则反贵。
贵出如粪土，贱取如珠玉。
财币欲其行如流水。
translation: 
If the source is large, the country will be rich; if the source is small, the country will be poor; if the source is large, it can make the country rich and strong, and if it is small, it can make the family rich.
Rich or poor, no one can take away or give to others, but smart people always have more than enough wealth, while stupid people often have insufficient food and clothing.
Therefore, when Jiang Taigong was sealed in Yingqiu, it was mostly saline-alkali land and sparsely populated. So Jiang Taigong encouraged women to devote themselves to textile and embroidery, strongly promoted craft skills, and asked people to transport fish and sea salt back to other areas. As a result, people and property from other countries flowed back to Qi State, like ropes connected to each other, in an endless stream, like the spokes of a car gathered at the hub, gathering there from all directions.
Therefore, because Qi State can make crowns, belts, clothes and shoes for the world, the princes from the East China Sea and Mount Tai all dress up and go to Qi State to worship.
Later, when the state of Qi declined, Guan Zhong re-established Jiang Taigong's career and established nine offices to manage finances, allowing Duke Huan of Qi to dominate. He joined the princes as the overlord many times and rectified the world's politics. Guan Zhong himself also had three returns. Although his official position was only that of a minister, he was richer than the monarchs of other countries.
From then on, Qi became prosperous and strong until the era of King Wei and King Xuan.
Therefore, it is said: If the warehouse is abundant, one will know etiquette; if one has sufficient food and clothing, one will know honor and disgrace.
Ritual comes from wealth and is discarded from poverty.
Therefore, when a gentleman is rich, he likes to do virtuous things; when common people are rich, they will do what they can.
When rivers are deep, fish will live in them; when mountains and forests are deep, wild animals will hide there; when a person is rich, benevolence and righteousness will benefit him.
When a rich man gains power, he becomes more prominent, but when he loses power, the guests who rely on him will have nowhere to stay, so they will feel unhappy.
In Yi Di, this situation is even more prominent.
The proverb says: A person with a rich family will not break the law and be punished and die in a busy city.
This is not empty talk.
Therefore, it is said: People in the world are bustling with each other, all coming and leaving for profit.
Those kings who own thousands of chariots, the princes who enjoy the fiefdoms of ten thousand households, and the officials who own hundreds of fiefdoms. If you are worried that you will become poor, let alone the ordinary people who are registered in the household registration!
Once upon a time, King Gou Jian of Yue was besieged on Kuaiji Mountain, so he appointed Fan Li and Ji Ran.
If you are good at comparing time and usage, you can clearly see the supply and demand of various goods. Therefore, when the year is in gold, there will be a good harvest; when it is in water, there will be a poor harvest; when it is in wood, there will be famine; when it is in fire, there will be drought.
When there is a drought, boats must be prepared to wait for floods; when there are floods, vehicles must be prepared for drought. This is in line with the laws of development of things.
Generally speaking, there is a good harvest every six years, a drought every six years, and a great famine every twelve years.
If grain is sold for 20 qian per dou, farmers will suffer losses; if the price is 90 qian per dou, merchants will suffer losses.
If businessmen suffer losses, money cannot circulate to society; if farmers suffer losses, their fields will become barren.
The maximum price of grain per bucket should not exceed eighty yuan and the minimum price should not be less than thirty yuan, so both farmers and businessmen can benefit. Selling food at a fair price, stabilizing and adjusting the prices of other commodities, and ensuring that there is no shortage of customs tax revenue and market supply is the way to govern a country.
As for the stored goods, they should be in good condition and reliable, and there should be no stranded monetary funds.
When buying and selling goods, do not hide items that are susceptible to corruption and corrosion for a long time, and do not risk hoarding them in order to get a higher price.
If you study the situation of surplus or shortage of goods, you will understand the reason why prices rise and fall. If the price reaches the extreme, it will return to dependence; if the price reaches the extreme, it will return to the expensive side.
When goods are extremely expensive, they should be sold in time and treated as dirt; when goods are extremely expensive, they should be purchased in time and treated as jewelry.
The circulation of goods and coins should be like running water.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
修之十年，国富，厚赂战士，士赴矢石，如渴得饮，遂报彊吴，观兵中国，称号 五霸 。
范蠡既雪会稽之耻，乃喟然而叹曰： 计然之策七，越用其五而得意。
既已施於国，吾欲用之家。
乃乘扁舟浮於江湖，变名易姓，適齐为鸱夷子皮，之陶为硃公。
硃公以为陶天下之中，诸侯四通，货物所交易也。
乃治产积居。与时逐而不责於人。
故善治生者，能择人而任时。
十九年之中三致千金，再分散与贫交疏昆弟。
此所谓富好行其德者也。
後年衰老而听子孙，子孙脩业而息之，遂至巨万。
故言富者皆称陶硃公。
子赣既学於仲尼，退而仕於卫，废著鬻财於曹、鲁之间，七十子之徒，赐最为饶益。
原宪不厌糟糠，匿於穷巷。
子贡结驷连骑，束帛之币以聘享诸侯，所至，国君无不分庭与之抗礼。
夫使孔子名布扬於天下者，子贡先後之也。
此所谓得埶而益彰者乎？
白圭，周人也。
当魏文侯时，李克务尽地力，而白圭乐观时变，故人弃我取，人取我与。
夫岁孰取穀，予之丝漆；茧出取帛絮，予之食。
太阴在卯，穰；明岁衰恶。
至午，旱；明岁美。
至酉，穰；明岁衰恶。
至子，大旱；明岁美，有水。
至卯，积著率岁倍。
translation: 
Gou Jian governed the country according to Jiran's strategy for ten years, and the country of Yue became rich. He was able to buy soldiers with heavy sums of money, and made the soldiers charge into battle, ignoring arrows and stones, just like asking for water when thirsty. Finally, he avenged his humiliation and destroyed the Wu Kingdom. Then he showed off his power in the Central Plains and became known as one of the "Five Hegemons".
Fan Li had assisted the King of Yue to avenge the shame of being trapped in Kuaiji, so he sighed: Ji Ran had seven strategies, but Yue only used five of them to realize his wish to avenge his humiliation.
Since it is very effective in governing the country, I want to use it in governing the family.
So he wandered around the rivers and lakes in a small boat, changing his name and surname. When he arrived in Qi, he was named Gui Yizipi, and when he arrived in Taoyi, he was named Zhu Gong.
Zhu Gong believed that Taoyi was located in the center of the world and was well connected with the princes and states in all directions, making it very convenient to exchange goods.
So he managed the industry, hoarded things, adapted to changes, and pursued profits according to the times without blaming others.
Therefore, those who are good at managing and getting rich must be able to choose wise people and seize the opportunity.
During the nineteen years, he made millions of dollars three times, and twice distributed them to poor friends and distant brothers with the same surname.
This is what is said when a gentleman is rich, he likes to do virtuous things.
Later, Fan Li became old and weak and left it to his descendants, who inherited his business and developed it, and eventually he had a fortune of tens of millions.
Therefore, when future generations talk about rich men, they all praise Tao Zhugong.
Zigong once studied under Confucius, and after leaving, he became an official in the state of Wei. He also used the method of selling the high and buying the low to do business between Cao and Lu. Among the more than seventy disciples of Confucius, Duanmuci was the richest.
Yuan Xian, another great disciple of Confucius, was so poor that he could not even eat chaff and lived in seclusion in a simple alley.
Zigong, however, rode in a chariot drawn by four horses and bridles, carrying bundles of silk and rich gifts to visit the princes and present them to the princes. Wherever he went, the king only treated him as a guest and host, not as a monarch or a minister.
The reason why Confucius became famous all over the world was because Zigong assisted him in front of others and behind others.
This is what is called getting the help of circumstances to make your reputation more prominent, right?
Bai Gui was from the Eastern Zhou Dynasty.
When Wei Wenhou was in power, Li Kezheng was committed to developing land resources, but Bai Gui liked to observe changes in market conditions and good times and bad years, so when there was a surplus of goods and sold at low prices, he bought them; when there were insufficient goods and the demand for high prices was high, he sold them.
When the grain is ripe, he buys grain and sells silk and lacquer; when silkworm cocoons form, he buys silk and cotton wadding and sells grain.
He understood that when Tai Sui was in the Mao position, there would be a good harvest, but the next year would be bad.
When Tai Sui is in the Meridian Palace, drought will occur; the next year will be good.
When Tai Sui is in the position of You, the grain harvest will be good; but the next year the situation will deteriorate.
When Tai Sui is in the Zi position, there will be severe drought; next year, the weather will be good with rain.
When Tai Sui returned to the Mao position, the goods he hoarded were roughly twice as much as in previous years.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
欲长钱，取下穀；长石斗，取上种。
能薄饮食，忍嗜欲，节衣服，与用事僮仆同苦乐，趋时若猛兽挚鸟之发。
故曰： 吾治生产，犹伊尹、吕尚之谋，孙吴用兵，商鞅行法是也。
是故其智不足与权变，勇不足以决断，仁不能以取予，彊不能有所守，虽欲学吾术，终不告之矣。
盖天下言治生祖白圭。
白圭其有所试矣，能试有所长，非苟而已也。
猗顿用盬盐起。
而邯郸郭纵以铁冶成业，与王者埒富。
乌氏倮畜牧，及众，斥卖，求奇缯物，间献遗戎王。
戎王什倍其偿，与之畜，畜至用谷量马牛。
秦始皇帝令倮比封君，以时与列臣朝请。
而巴寡妇清，其先得丹穴，而擅其利数世，家亦不訾。
清，寡妇也，能守其业，用财自卫，不见侵犯。
秦皇帝以为贞妇而客之，为筑女怀清台。
夫倮鄙人牧长，清穷乡寡妇，礼抗万乘，名显天下，岂非以富邪？
汉兴，海内为一，开关梁，弛山泽之禁，是以富商大贾周流天下，交易之物莫不通，得其所欲，而徙豪杰诸侯彊族於京师。
关中自汧、雍以东至河、华，膏壤沃野千里，自虞夏之贡以为上田，而公刘適邠，大王、王季在岐，文王作丰，武王治镐，故其民犹有先王之遗风，好稼穑，殖五穀，地重，重为邪。
及秦文、缪居雍，隙陇蜀之货物而多贾。
translation: 
If he wanted to increase his financial income, he would buy inferior grain; if he wanted to increase the weight of each bushel of grain, he would buy the best grain.
He can not pay attention to food and drink, control his hobbies, save on clothing, share the joys and sorrows with his hired servants, and seize opportunities to make money as quickly as beasts of prey seize food.
Therefore, he said: I do business to get rich, just like Yi Yin and Lu Shang planned strategies, like Sun Tzu and Wu Qi in using military tactics, and like Shang Yang in promoting reforms.
Therefore, if a person is not wise enough to adapt to changes, courageous enough to make decisive decisions, benevolent enough to make correct choices, and strong enough to persist, even if he wants to learn my skills in doing business and getting rich, I will not teach him.
Therefore, people all over the world follow Bai Gui's example when talking about how to get rich in business.
Bai Gui probably tried something, and he was able to achieve something by trying. This is not something that can be done casually.
Yidun started his business by operating Chiyan.
However, Guo Zong of Handan built his family business by smelting iron, and his wealth was comparable to that of princes.
There was a famous man in Wushi County who was engaged in animal husbandry. When the livestock multiplied in large numbers, he sold them all, then purchased various strange things and silk fabrics, and secretly presented them to King Rong.
King Rong gave him ten times the amount of the things he had donated, and gave him livestock. The livestock were so numerous that the number of cattle and horses was measured in the valley.
Qin Shihuang decreed that Wu Shiluo's status should be the same as that of the feudal lord, and he should go to the palace to pay homage with other ministers at the specified time.
However, the ancestors of Widow Qing of Bajun obtained the cinnabar mine and monopolized its profits for several generations, and their family property was also numerous.
Qing is a widow who can keep her ancestors' family property and use money to protect herself from being invaded by others.
Qin Shihuang thought she was a chaste woman and treated her as a guest. He also built a female concubine Qingtai for her.
Wu Shiluo was just a humble man from the frontier and a master of livestock. Widow Qing of Bajun was a widow from a poor country, but she could stand up to a monarch with thousands of military chariots and become famous all over the world. Isn't this relying on their wealth?
With the rise of the Han Dynasty and the unification of the world, they opened up key roads and lifted the ban on mining mountains and rivers. As a result, wealthy merchants and merchants were able to travel around the world, and all goods traded were smooth, and their desires were satisfied. The Han government also moved heroes, princes, and wealthy families to the capital.
The Guanzhong area stretches from Qian and Yong counties to the east to the Yellow River and Huashan, with fertile soil and fields covering thousands of miles in radius. From the time when the Yu clan and the Xia Hou clan paid tribute, this land was classified as high-quality land. Later Gong Liu moved to Pi, King Tai and Wang Ji of Zhou moved to Qishan, King Wen of Zhou built Fengyi, and King Wu of Zhou governed Haojing. Therefore, the people in these places still have the legacy of their ancestors. They like farming, plant grains, attach great importance to the land, and take doing bad things very seriously.
Until Qin Wen Gong, De Gong, and Mu Gong established their capital in Yongyi, it was located on the main road for the exchange of goods between Long and Shu, so there were many merchants.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
献公徙栎邑，栎邑北卻戎翟，东通三晋，亦多大贾。
昭治咸阳，因以汉都，长安诸陵，四方辐凑并至而会，地小人众，故其民益玩巧而事末也。
南则巴蜀。
巴蜀亦沃野，地饶卮、姜、丹沙、石、铜、铁、竹、木之器。
南御滇僰，僰僮。
西近邛笮，笮马、旄牛。
然四塞，栈道千里，无所不通，唯襃斜绾毂其口，以所多易所鲜。
天水、陇西、北地、上郡与关中同俗，然西有羌中之利，北有戎翟之畜，畜牧为天下饶。
然地亦穷险，唯京师要其道。
故关中之地，於天下三分之一，而人众不过什三；然量其富，什居其六。
昔唐人都河东，殷人都河内，周人都河南。
夫三河在天下之中，若鼎足，王者所更居也，建国各数百千岁，土地小狭，民人众，都国诸侯所聚会，故其俗纤俭习事。
杨、平阳陈西贾秦、翟，北贾种、代。
种、代，石北也，地边胡，数被寇。
人民矜懻忮，好气，任侠为奸，不事农商。
然迫近北夷，师旅亟往，中国委输时有奇羡。
其民羯羠不均，自全晋之时固已患其僄悍，而武灵王益厉之，其谣俗犹有赵之风也。
故杨、平阳陈掾其间，得所欲。
温、轵西贾上党，北贾赵、中山。
中山地薄人众，犹有沙丘纣淫地馀民，民俗懁急，仰机利而食。
丈夫相聚游戏，悲歌慷慨，起则相随椎剽，休则掘冢作巧奸冶，多美物，为倡优。
女子则鼓鸣瑟，跕屣，游媚贵富，入後宫，遍诸侯。
translation: 
Duke Xian of Qin moved to Yueyi, and Yueyi controlled Rongdi in the north and connected to the three Jin Dynasties in the east. There were also many big merchants.
Duke Xiao of Qin and King Zhaoxiang of Qin ruled Xianyang, which the Han Dynasty used as its capital; in the tombs near Chang'an, people and things from all directions gathered here. The place was small and the population was large, so the local people became more and more playful and engaged in business and other industries.
To the south of the Guanzhong area are Bajun and Shujun.
The Bashu region is also a fertile wilderness, rich in gardenia, ginger, cinnabar, stone, copper, iron, bamboo and other utensils.
In the south, they resisted Dian and Bo, and there were many servants in Bo.
It is adjacent to Qiong and Ze in the west, and the land of Ze produces horses and cattle.
However, the Bashu area is surrounded by a secluded area, with thousands of miles of plank roads and nowhere connected to Guanzhong. Only two valley passages, Bao Bao and Xie, control its mouth and connect the roads in all directions, so that surplus goods can be exchanged for shortages.
Tianshui, Longxi, Beidi and Shangjun have the same customs as those in Guanzhong. To the west are the Qiangzhong and to the north are the Rongdi livestock. The animal husbandry ranks first in the world.
However, the terrain here is difficult, and only the capital Chang'an controls its access.
Therefore, the entire Guanzhong land accounts for one-third of the world, and its population only accounts for three-tenths of the world; however, it is estimated that the wealth here accounts for six-tenths of the world.
In ancient times, Tang Yao made his capital Jinyang in Hedong Province, the Yin people made their capital Yinxu in Hanoi, and the Eastern Zhou Dynasty made their capital Luoyang in Henan Province.
Hedong, Hanoi and Henan are located in the center of the world, like the three legs of a tripod. They are the places where emperors lived in succession. Each country was founded hundreds of years or even thousands of years ago. The land here is small and the population is large. It is where princes from various countries gather. Therefore, the local folk customs are stingy, frugal and sophisticated.
The people of Yang and Pingyang could do business in the Qin and Rongdi areas to the west, and to the Zhong and Dai areas to the north.
Zhong and Dai were located to the north of Shiyi. Their land was adjacent to the Xiongnu and was plundered many times.
The people advocate being strong and competitive, taking supporting the weak and suppressing the strong as their own duty, and are unwilling to engage in agriculture and commerce.
However, due to the proximity of the Yi and Di in the north, armies often communicated with each other, and there was sometimes a surplus of supplies transported from the Central Plains.
The local people were tough and did not work hard. They had been worried about their toughness since before the three families were divided into the Jin Dynasty. This trend was further encouraged by the time of King Wuling of Zhao. The local customs still bear the legacy of the Zhao Kingdom.
Therefore, the people of Yang and Pingyang are busy in business and can get what they want.
People in the Wen and Zhe areas can do business in the Shangdang area to the west, and to the Zhao and Zhongshan areas in the north.
The land in Zhongshan is barren, and there are descendants of the Yin people left by King Zhou in the sand dunes. The people are impatient and rely on speculation to make a living.
Men often get together to play games and sing tragic songs. During the day, they gather together to kill and rob. At night, they dig graves and rob graves, make forgeries, and mint coins privately. Many beautiful men work as singers and dancers.
Women often played the harp, dragged their shoes, and wandered among the rich and powerful to flatter themselves. Some were included in the harem and spread among the princes all over the country.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
然邯郸亦漳、河之间一都会也。
北通燕、涿，南有郑、卫。
郑、卫俗与赵相类，然近梁、鲁，微重而矜节。
濮上之邑徙野王，野王好气任侠，卫之风也。
夫燕亦勃、碣之间一都会也。
南通齐、赵，东北边胡。
上谷至辽东，地踔远，人民希，数被寇，大与赵、代俗相类，而民雕捍少虑，有鱼盐枣栗之饶。
北邻乌桓、夫馀，东绾秽貉、朝鲜、真番之利。
洛阳东贾齐、鲁，南贾梁、楚。
故泰山之阳则鲁，其阴则齐。
齐带山海，膏壤千里，宜桑麻，人民多文采布帛鱼盐。
临菑亦海岱之间一都会也。
其俗宽缓阔达，而足智，好议论，地重，难动摇，怯於众斗，勇於持刺，故多劫人者，大国之风也。
其中具五民。
而邹、鲁滨洙、泗，犹有周公遗风，俗好儒，备於礼，故其民龊龊。
颇有桑麻之业，无林泽之饶。
地小人众，俭啬，畏罪远邪。
及其衰，好贾趋利，甚於周人。
夫自鸿沟以东，芒、砀以北，属巨野，此梁、宋也。
陶、睢阳亦一都会也。
昔尧作成阳，舜渔於雷泽，汤止于亳。
其俗犹有先王遗风，重厚多君子，好稼穑，虽无山川之饶，能恶衣食，致其蓄藏。
越、楚则有三俗。
夫自淮北沛、陈、汝南、南郡，此西楚也。
其俗剽轻，易发怒，地薄，寡於积聚。
江陵故郢都，西通巫、巴，东有云梦之饶。
陈在楚夏之交，通鱼盐之货，其民多贾。
translation: 
However, Handan is also a city between Zhangshui and the Yellow River.
It connects Yan and Zhuo to the north, and Zheng and Wei to the south.
The customs of Zheng and Wei are similar to those of Zhao, but they are close to Liang and Lu, and the people are a little more solemn and pay attention to moral integrity.
Wei Yuanjun moved from Diqiu, the city of Pushang, to Yewang. The people in the Yewang area liked fighting spirit and allowed chivalrous people to commit crimes, which was a legacy of the Wei Dynasty.
Ji, the ancient capital of Yan State, is also a city between Bohai Sea and Jieshi Mountain.
It borders Qi and Zhao in the south, and borders the Hu people in the northeast.
The area from Shanggu to Liaodong is far away, sparsely populated, and has been repeatedly invaded. The folk customs are generally similar to those in the Zhao and Dai areas, but the people are agile and fierce, lacking in thought. The local area is rich in fish, salt, dates, and chestnuts.
It is adjacent to Wuhuan and Fuyu to the north, and is in a favorable position to control Guhugu, Korea and Zhenfan to the east.
If you go east from Luoyang, you can do business in Qi and Lu, and if you go south, you can do business in Liang and Chu.
Therefore, the southern part of Mount Tai is the hometown of Lu State, and the northern part is the hometown of Qi State.
The land is surrounded by mountains and seas, and there is fertile soil for thousands of miles, suitable for growing mulberry and hemp. The people have many colorful silks, cloth and fish salt.
Linzi is also a city between the East China Sea and Mount Tai.
The local folk customs are tolerant and open-minded, but also resourceful and love to talk. They have strong local values ​​and are not easy to drift out. They are timid in gathering crowds to fight, but dare to hurt others secretly. Therefore, they often rob other people's property. This is the custom of a big country.
Here there are all kinds of people including scholars, farmers, workers, merchants and businessmen.
Zou and Lu are adjacent to the Zhu River and the Sishui River, and still retain the legacy of Zhou Gong. The folk customs favor Confucianism and complete etiquette, so the local people are cautious and restrained.
Many people are engaged in the mulberry and hemp industry, but do not have the resources of mountains, forests, and rivers.
The land is small and the population is large. People are stingy, afraid of crime, and avoid evil.
When it declines, people like to do business and pursue wealth, which is even more powerful than the people in the surrounding areas.
From the east of Honggou, to the north of Mangshan and Dangshan, to Juye, this was the hometown of Liang and Song Dynasties.
Taoyi and Suiyang are also cities.
In the past, Tang Yao rose up in Chengyang, Yu Shun fished in Leize, and Shang Tang established his capital in Hao.
The folk customs here still have the legacy of the previous kings. They are generous and dignified, and there are many gentlemen who like farming. Although there are no rich mountains and rivers, people can live frugally in order to accumulate wealth.
The Yue and Chu regions have different customs from the three regions of Western Chu, Eastern Chu and Southern Chu.
From Peijun in Huaibei to Chenjun, Runan, and Nanjun, this is the Western Chu region.
The folk customs here are strong and agile, easy to anger, the land is barren, and there is little accumulation of wealth.
Jiangling was originally the capital of Chu State, connected to Wu County and Ba County in the west, and Yunmeng in the east, which was rich in products.
Chen is at the junction of Chu and Xia, where fish and salt goods are circulated, and most of the residents are merchants.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
徐、僮、取虑，则清刻，矜己诺。
彭城以东，东海、吴、广陵，此东楚也。
其俗类徐、僮。
朐、缯以北，俗则齐。
浙江南则越。
夫吴自阖庐、春申、王濞三人招致天下之喜游子弟，东有海盐之饶，章山之铜，三江、五湖之利，亦江东一都会也。
衡山、九江、江南、豫章、长沙，是南楚也，其俗大类西楚。
郢之後徙寿春，亦一都会也。
而合肥受南北潮，皮革、鲍、木输会也。
与闽中、干越杂俗，故南楚好辞，巧说少信。
江南卑湿，丈夫早夭。
多竹木。
豫章出黄金，长沙出连、锡，然堇堇物之所有，取之不足以更费。
九疑、苍梧以南至儋耳者，与江南大同俗，而杨越多焉。
番禺亦其一都会也，珠玑、犀、玳瑁、果、布之凑。
颍川、南阳，夏人之居也。
夏人政尚忠朴，犹有先王之遗风。
颍川敦愿。
秦末世，迁不轨之民於南阳。
南阳西通武关、郧关，东南受汉、江、淮。
宛亦一都会也。
俗杂好事，业多贾。
其任侠，交通颍川，故至今谓之 夏人 。
夫天下物所鲜所多，人民谣俗，山东食海盐，山西食盐卤，领南、沙北固往往出盐，大体如此矣。
总之，楚越之地，地广人希，饭稻羹鱼，或火耕而水耨，果隋蠃蛤，不待贾而足，地埶饶食，无饥馑之患，以故呰窳偷生，无积聚而多贫。
是故江淮以南，无冻饿之人，亦无千金之家。
沂、泗水以北，宜五穀桑麻六畜，地小人众，数被水旱之害，民好畜藏，故秦、夏、梁、鲁好农而重民。
三河、宛、陈亦然，加以商贾。
齐、赵设智巧，仰机利。
燕、代田畜而事蚕。
translation: 
The residents in the Xu, Tong, and Jili areas are honest, strict, and keep their promises.
East of Pengcheng, including Donghai, Wu, and Guangling areas, this is the Dongchu region.
The customs here are similar to those in Xu and Tong areas.
To the north of Qu and Zeng, the folk customs are similar to those in Qi.
The customs in the south of Zhejiang are the same as those in Yue.
Since King Helu of Wu, Jun Shen of Chu Chun, and King Liu Bi of Wu in the early Han Dynasty attracted the world's lobbying descendants, Wu is rich in sea salt to the east, copper mines in Zhangshan, and the resources of the three rivers and five lakes. It is also a city in the east of the Yangtze River.
Hengshan, Jiujiang, Jiangnan, Yuzhang, and Changsha are the Southern Chu region. The customs here are similar to those in the Xichu area.
After the Chu State lost its capital of Ying, it moved its capital to Shouchun, which was also a city.
Hefei County has the Yangtze River in the south and the Huaihe River in the north. It is a place where leather, salted fish and wood gather.
Because they are mixed with the customs of central Fujian and Yue, the residents of Southern Chu are good at rhetoric, smooth talk, and rarely use credit.
The Jiangnan area is underground and has a humid climate, so men do not live long.
Rich in bamboo and wood.
Yuzhang produces gold, and Changsha produces lead and tin. However, the mineral reserves are extremely limited, and the income from mining is not enough to cover the expenses.
The customs in the area south of Jiuyi Mountain and Cangwu to Dan'er are generally the same as those in the south of the Yangtze River, with many Yangyue customs mixed in.
Panyu is also a local city and is a concentration center for pearls, rhinoceros horns, tortoiseshells, fruits, Gebu and the like.
Yingchuan and Nanyang were the places where people of the original Xia Dynasty lived.
Xia people advocated honesty and simplicity in politics, and still had the legacy of their ancestors.
Yingchuan people are honest and honest people.
At the end of the Qin Dynasty, lawless people migrated to Nanyang.
Nanyang is connected to Wuguan and Yunguan in the west, and faces Han River, Yangtze River and Huai River in the southeast.
Wan is also a city.
The local folk customs are mixed, which is a good thing. Most of them are engaged in business.
The residents took it as their duty to suppress the strong and support the weak, and interacted with the Yingchuan area, so they are still called Xia people until now.
The world's products are uneven in various places, with little and more, and folk customs are different. In Shandong, sea salt is eaten, and in Shanxi, pond salt is eaten. There are also many places in Lingnan and the north of the desert that produce salt. The situation is generally the same.
All in all, the Chuyue region was vast and sparsely populated. They relied on rice as food and fish as vegetables, slash-and-burn farming, weeding, and melons, fruits, snails, and clams. They could be self-sufficient without buying from other places. The terrain is favorable, food is plentiful, and there is no risk of famine. Therefore, people live in poverty without any savings.
Therefore, south of the Yangtze River and Huaihe River, there are no hungry or cold people, nor are there any rich households.
The area north of Yishui and Sishui is suitable for growing grains, mulberry and hemp, and raising livestock. There is less land and more people. It has suffered from frequent floods and droughts. People like to accumulate property, so Qin, Xia, Liang and Lu areas are diligent in agriculture and value labor.
The same is true for the Sanhe area, Wan, Chen and other places, plus business and trade.
The residents of Qi and Zhao areas are smart and dexterous, and rely on speculation to make money.
Residents in the Yan and Dai areas were able to farm, raise livestock, and raise silkworms as their industry.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
由此观之，贤人深谋於廊庙，论议朝廷，守信死节隐居岩穴之士设为名高者安归乎？
归於富厚也。
是以廉吏久，久更富，廉贾归富。
富者，人之情性，所不学而俱欲者也。
故壮士在军，攻城先登，陷阵卻敌，斩将搴旗，前蒙矢石，不避汤火之难者，为重赏使也。
其在闾巷少年，攻剽椎埋，劫人作奸，掘冢铸币，任侠并兼，借交报仇，篡逐幽隐，不避法禁，走死地如骛者，其实皆为财用耳。
今夫赵女郑姬，设形容，揳鸣琴，揄长袂，蹑利屣，目挑心招，出不远千里，不择老少者，奔富厚也。
游闲公子，饰冠剑，连车骑，亦为富贵容也。
弋射渔猎，犯晨夜，冒霜雪，驰阬谷，不避猛兽之害，为得味也。
博戏驰逐，斗鸡走狗，作色相矜，必争胜者，重失负也。
医方诸食技术之人，焦神极能，为重糈也。
吏士舞文弄法，刻章伪书，不避刀锯之诛者，没於赂遗也。
农工商贾畜长，固求富益货也。
此有知尽能索耳，终不馀力而让财矣。
谚曰： 百里不贩樵，千里不贩籴。
居之一岁，种之以穀；十岁，树之以木；百岁，来之以德。
德者，人物之谓也。
今有无秩禄之奉，爵邑之入，而乐与之比者。命曰 素封 。
封者食租税，岁率户二百。
translation: 
From this point of view, what are the virtuous people doing in the court to make plans, debating controversies, keeping their word and keeping their integrity, and those living in seclusion in the mountains claiming to be noble and preserving their reputations?
All for wealth.
Therefore, if you are an honest official, you will be an official for a long time, and you will be richer for a long time; if a businessman trades fairly and has a prosperous business, he will make more money and become rich.
It is human nature to seek wealth, and people will pursue it without learning.
Therefore, strong men in the army attack the city first in battle, charge into battle when encountering the enemy, behead generals and seize flags, brave arrows and stones, and do not shy away from going through fire and water, facing hardships and dangers, because they are driven by huge rewards.
Those young people living in the countryside attack and rob, kill and bury people alive, force people to commit adultery, dig graves, mint coins privately, pretend to be chivalrous, embezzle and occupy, use their accomplices to seek personal revenge, rob money in dark and hidden places, chase people for their lives, do not avoid legal prohibitions, and rush forward like fast horses on the road to death. In fact, they are all just for money.
Nowadays, the women of Zhao and Zheng countries dress up, modify their appearance, play the piano and harp, dance with long sleeves, step on light dancing shoes, tease with their eyes, seduce with their affection, travel thousands of miles, and do not choose to seek refuge with men at a young age. They are also busy for financial gain.
The idle aristocratic son is well-decorated with his hat and sword, and his vehicles and horses line up when he goes out, just to show his wealth.
Hunters and fishermen get up early and wait until dark, braving the frost and snow, running in the deep mountains and canyons, not avoiding the harm they suffer, in order to obtain all kinds of game.
Entering and leaving the casino, fighting cocks and lackeys, everyone is red-faced and vying to show off, and they must win because they take winning and losing very seriously.
Doctors, alchemists and all kinds of people who make a living by their skills work excessively hard and do their best in order to get rich rewards.
Officials in the government are obsessed with writing, engraving official seals privately, forging documents, and do not shy away from having their feet cut off and their heads cut off. This is because they are caught up in bribes and gifts from others.
As for the increase in savings of farmers, industrialists, merchants and merchants, they were originally intended to increase their personal wealth.
After racking one's brains and exerting all one's strength to obtain, it is ultimately to spare no effort to fight for the property.
The proverb says: A firewood seller cannot go a hundred miles, and a grain seller cannot go a thousand miles.
If you live in a place for a year, you should plant grains; if you live in a place for ten years, you should plant trees; if you live in a place for a hundred years, you should attract virtue.
The so-called virtue refers to a person's talent, virtue, reputation and property.
Nowadays, there are some people who do not have official salary or income from titles and lands, but live a happy and wealthy life, which can be compared with those who have official titles. They are called "Su Feng".
People with fiefdoms enjoyed the tax, and each household paid an annual tax of 200 yuan.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
千户之君则二十万，朝觐聘享出其中。
庶民农工商贾，率亦岁万息二千，百万之家则二十万，而更徭租赋出其中。
衣食之欲，恣所好美矣。
故曰陆地牧马二百蹄，牛蹄角千，千足羊，泽中千足彘，水居千石鱼陂，山居千章之材。
安邑千树枣；燕、秦千树栗；蜀、汉、江陵千树橘；淮北、常山已南，河济之间千树萩；陈、夏千亩漆；齐、鲁千亩桑麻；渭川千亩竹；及名国万家之城，带郭千亩亩锺之田，若千亩卮茜，千畦姜韭：此其人皆与千户侯等。
然是富给之资也，不窥市井，不行异邑，坐而待收，身有处士之义而取给焉。
若至家贫亲老，妻子软弱，岁时无以祭祀进醵，饮食被服不足以自通，如此不惭耻，则无所比矣。
是以无财作力，少有斗智，既饶争时，此其大经也。
今治生不待危身取给，则贤人勉焉。
是故本富为上，末富次之，奸富最下。
无岩处奇士之行，而长贫贱，好语仁义，亦足羞也。
凡编户之民，富相什则卑下之，伯则畏惮之，千则役，万则仆，物之理也。
夫用贫求富，农不如工，工不如商，刺绣文不如倚市门，此言末业，贫者之资也。
通邑大都，酤一岁千酿，醯酱千瓨，浆千甔，屠牛羊彘千皮，贩穀粜千锺，薪稾千车，船长千丈，木千章，竹竿万个，其轺车百乘，牛车千两，木器魨者千枚，铜器千钧，素木铁器若卮茜千石，马蹄躈千，牛千足，羊彘千双，僮手指千，筋角丹沙千斤，其帛絮细布千钧，文采千匹，榻布皮革千石，漆千斗，糵麹盐豉千荅，鮐千斤，鲰千石，鲍千钧，枣栗千石者三之，狐龂裘千皮，羔羊裘千石，旃席千具，佗果菜千锺，子贷金钱千贯，节駔会，贪贾三之，廉贾五之，此亦比千乘之家，其大率也。
佗杂业不中什二，则非吾财也。
请略道当世千里之中，贤人所以富者，令後世得以观择焉。
translation: 
A prince with thousands of households can earn up to 200,000 yuan from tax every year, which must be spent on paying homage to the emperor, visiting princes, and offering sacrifices and gifts.
Ordinary people, such as farmers, workers, merchants, and businessmen, who have ten thousand yuan in their family can get two thousand yuan in interest every year. Those who have one million yuan can get two hundred thousand yuan in interest every year, and the cost of communes, rents, and taxes are all paid out of it.
This kind of family can eat, drink and have fun as they please.
So on land there are fifty horses herded, one hundred sixty to seventy cattle raised, two hundred fifty sheep raised, two hundred fifty pigs raised in the swamps, fish ponds with an annual output of fish of thousands of stones, and thousands of mature trees in the mountains.
There are thousands of jujube trees in Anyi; thousands of chestnut trees in Yan and Qin; thousands of orange trees in Shujun, Hanshui and Jiangling areas; thousands of catalpa trees in Huaibei, south of Changshan and between the Yellow River and Jishui; thousands of acres of lacquer trees in Chen and Xia; thousands of acres of mulberry trees in Qi and Lu; Wei There are thousands of acres of bamboo forest in Sichuan; there is also a capital city that is famous in the country and has thousands of households; and there are thousands of acres of fertile farmland in the suburbs with a yield of one minute per mu, or thousands of acres of gardenias and madders, and thousands of acres of ginger and leeks. The wealth of such people can be equal to that of a thousand households of marquis.
However, these have become abundant capital. People do not need to go to the market to check or travel to other places. They can get it without working at home. With the reputation of being a virgin, they can use it in abundance.
As for those poor families, whose parents are old, their wives and children are emaciated, and they have no money to worship their ancestors, ghosts and gods during festivals, give travel expenses, gather food, eat, drink and wear themselves, and they are so poor and still feel ashamed, then there is nothing to compare with.
Therefore, if you don’t have money, you can only sell your labor, if you have a little money, you will use your cleverness, and if you are rich, you will fight for profit. This is common sense.
In order to make a living nowadays, whoever can get what he needs without risking his life should be encouraged by wise men.
Therefore, getting rich by engaging in agricultural production is the highest, getting rich by engaging in commerce and industry is the second best, and getting rich by playing tricks or even breaking the law is the lowest.
It is enough to be ashamed of being a hermit who lives in the mountains and refuses to be an official, but who has been in a poor position for a long time and talks about benevolence and righteousness.
People who have registered households will look down upon those who have ten times more wealth than themselves, fear those who have a hundred times more wealth, be enslaved by others if they have a thousand times more wealth, and be slaves to those who have ten thousand times more wealth. This is the normal course of things.
To rise from poverty to wealth, it is better to do farming than to work, and to work is not as good as doing business. It is better to engage in skilled embroidery, brocade and other handicraft production than to open a shop on the street and do business. The business mentioned here is the means for the poor to get rich.
In a metropolis with developed transportation, every year, one thousand jars of wine, one thousand jars of vinegar, one thousand jars of pulp are brewed, one thousand cows, sheep and pig skins are slaughtered, one thousand bells of grain are sold, one thousand carts of firewood are sold, the total length of the ships is one thousand feet, one thousand trees, one thousand bamboo poles, one hundred carriages, and one A thousand oxcarts, a thousand pieces of lacquered wood, a thousand jins of bronze, a thousand loads of unbleached wood, iron, and dyes, 200 horses, 250 oxen, a thousand pigs and sheep, a hundred slaves, a thousand jins of sinew and cinnabar, a thousand jins of cotton wadding, fine cloth, and a thousand pieces of colored Silk, one thousand loads of coarse cloth and leather, one thousand buckets of lacquer, one thousand bottles of distilled yeast and salted black bean paste, one thousand catties of mackerel and catfish, one thousand shi of small miscellaneous fish, one thousand jin of pickled salted fish, three thousand jin of dates and millet seeds, one thousand jin of fox-sable fur coats, one thousand jin of lamb fur coats, one thousand strips of felt blankets, as well as a thousand kinds of fruits and vegetables, and a thousand dollars of loan sharking funds. The brokers or greedy businessmen who facilitated the livestock transaction made a profit of three-tenths, and the honest businessmen made a profit of five-tenths. This type of people can also be compared with the Qiancheng Family. This is a rough situation.
As for other miscellaneous businesses, if the profit is less than two-tenths, it is not what I call a good industry for making wealth.
Please allow me to briefly explain the reasons why those capable people within a thousand miles of the present generation are able to become rich, so that future generations can examine their options.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
蜀卓氏之先，赵人也，用铁冶富。
秦破赵，迁卓氏。卓氏见虏略，独夫妻推辇，行诣迁处。
诸迁虏少有馀财，争与吏，求近处，处葭萌。
唯卓氏曰： 此地狭薄。吾闻汶山之下，沃野，下有蹲鸱，至死不饥。
民工於市，易贾。
乃求远迁。致之临邛，大喜，即铁山鼓铸，运筹策，倾滇蜀之民，富至僮千人。
田池射猎之乐，拟於人君。
程郑，山东迁虏也，亦冶铸，贾椎髻之民，富埒卓氏，俱居临邛。
宛孔氏之先，梁人也，用铁冶为业。
秦伐魏，迁孔氏南阳。
大鼓铸，规陂池，连车骑，游诸侯，因通商贾之利，有游闲公子之赐与名。
然其赢得过当，愈於纤啬，家致富数千金，故南阳行贾尽法孔氏之雍容。
鲁人俗俭啬，而曹邴氏尤甚，以铁冶起，富至巨万。
然家自父兄子孙约，俯有拾，仰有取，贳贷行贾遍郡国。
邹、鲁以其故多去文学而趋利者，以曹邴氏也。
齐俗贱奴虏，而刀间独爱贵之。
桀黠奴，人之所患也，唯刀间收取，使之逐渔盐商贾之利，或连车骑，交守相，然愈益任之。
终得其力，起富数千万。
故曰 宁爵毋刀 ，言其能使豪奴自饶而尽其力。
周人既纤，而师史尤甚，转毂以百数，贾郡国，无所不至。
洛阳街居在齐秦楚赵之中，贫人学事富家，相矜以久贾，数过邑不入门，设任此等，故师史能致七千万。
translation: 
The ancestors of the Zhuo family in Shu were from the State of Zhao and made their fortune by smelting iron.
When the Qin State defeated the Zhao State, they moved the Zhuo family. The Zhuo family was captured and plundered. Only the couple pushed the cart to the place of migration.
Other people who were moved at the same time, if they had any extra money, they rushed to give it to the officials in charge and begged to be moved to a nearby place. The nearest place was Jiameng County.
Only Zhuo said: Jiameng is a small place and the land is barren. I heard that there are fertile fields below Wenshan Mountain. There are big taros growing in the fields, which are shaped like crouching owl. People will not starve until they die.
The people there are good at trading and easy to do business.
So he asked to move to a distant place, but was moved to Linqiong. He was very happy, so he smelted iron and made weapons in the mountains where there were iron mines. He planned and calculated carefully, and his wealth overwhelmed the residents of the Yunnan and Shu areas. He was so rich that he had as many as a thousand slaves.
He enjoys shooting and hunting in the garden pond, which is comparable to that of the king.
Cheng Zheng was a surrendered citizen who migrated from the east of Taihang Mountain. He also engaged in the smelting and foundry industry and often sold iron products to ethnic minorities in the southwestern region. His wealth was equal to that of the Zhuo family, and he lived with the Zhuo family in Linqiong.
The ancestors of the Kong family in Wan County were from the Liang State and were engaged in iron smelting.
After the Qin State attacked the Wei State, the Kong family was moved to Nanyang.
He engaged in the smelting industry on a large scale, and planned to open fish ponds to raise fish. He drove horses and chariots in groups, and often visited the princes to seek the convenience of doing business and make money, and won the reputation of a leisurely son who was generous and generous.
However, he made a lot of profits, which was much more than the money he spent on charity. He was better than a stingy businessman, and his family wealth amounted to thousands of gold. Therefore, the people in Nanyang all imitated Kong's calmness, stability and generous behavior in doing business.
The people of Lu were frugal and stingy, and Cao Bing was particularly outstanding. He made his fortune by smelting iron and had a fortune of tens of thousands of dollars.
However, his father, brother, and descendants all abide by this family rule: when you lower your head and raise your head, you must gain something, and you must not forget the benefits in every move.
His family rents, lends money, and does business all over the country. For this reason, many people in Zoulu area abandoned Confucianism and pursued wealth. This was due to the influence of the Cao Bing family.
The custom in Qi is to despise slaves, but Dao Jian values ​​them.
People were worried about vicious and cunning slaves, so they could only be kept and used by Tojian, letting them pursue the interests of fishing and salt commerce, or letting them ride in teams of carriages and horses to make friends with local officials and trust them more.
Tobirama finally got their help and became rich tens of millions of dollars.
Therefore, some people say: It is better to be a slave in Dao's house than to go out to seek official titles. What they mean is that Dao's house can make the slave rich himself and do his best for him.
The residents of Zhou were originally very stingy, but Shi Shi was particularly outstanding. He made money by carrying goods back and forth in his vehicles. He had hundreds of vehicles, and he did business among the princes in various counties, reaching everywhere.
Luoyang Road is at the center of Qi, Qin, Chu, Zhao and other countries. The poor people in the streets learn to do business from rich families. They often boast to each other that they have been doing business for a long time, and they often pass through the countryside without entering their homes. Because he was able to plan and appoint such people, Shi Shi could make a fortune of up to 70 million yuan.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
宣曲任氏之先，为督道仓吏。
秦之败也，豪杰皆争取金玉，而任氏独窖仓粟。
楚汉相距荥阳也，民不得耕种，米石至万，而豪杰金玉尽归任氏，任氏以此起富。
富人争奢侈，而任氏折节为俭，力田畜。
田畜人争取贱贾，任氏独取贵善。
富者数世。
然任公家约，非田畜所出弗衣食，公事不毕则身不得饮酒食肉。
以此为闾里率，故富而主上重之。
塞之斥也，唯桥姚已致马千匹，牛倍之，羊万头，粟以万锺计。
吴楚七国兵起时，长安中列侯封君行从军旅，赍贷子钱，子钱家以为侯邑国在关东，关东成败未决，莫肯与。
唯无盐氏出捐千金贷，其息什之。
三月，吴楚平，一岁之中，则无盐氏之息什倍，用此富埒关中。
关中富商大贾，大抵尽诸田，田啬、田兰。
韦家栗氏，安陵、杜杜氏，亦巨万。
此其章章尤异者也。
皆非有爵邑奉禄弄法犯奸而富，尽椎埋去就，与时俯仰，获其赢利，以末致财，用本守之，以武一切，用文持之，变化有概，故足术也。
若至力农畜，工虞商贾，为权利以成富，大者倾郡，中者倾县，下者倾乡里者，不可胜数。
夫纤啬筋力，治生之正道也，而富者必用奇胜。
田农，掘业，而秦扬以盖一州。
掘冢，奸事也，而田叔以起。
博戏，恶业也，而桓发用富。
行贾，丈夫贱行也，而雍乐成以饶。
贩脂，辱处也，而雍伯千金。
卖浆，小业也，而张氏千万。
洒削，薄技也，而郅氏鼎食。
胃脯，简微耳，浊氏连骑。
马医，浅方，张里击锺。
此皆诚壹之所致。
由是观之，富无经业，则货无常主，能者辐凑，不肖者瓦解。
千金之家比一都之君，巨万者乃与王者同乐。
translation: 
The ancestor of the Ren family in Xuanqu was a guard in charge of Daocang.
When the Qin Dynasty was defeated, the heroes all competed for gold, silver and jewels, while the Ren family alone used the cellar to store rice and millet.
Later, the armies of Chu and Han were at war in Xingyang. Farmers were unable to cultivate their fields. The price of rice rose to ten thousand yuan per stone. Ren made a fortune by selling grain. All the gold, silver and jewelry of the heroes belonged to Ren, and Ren made a fortune.
Most wealthy people strive for luxury, but the Ren family is submissive, advocating frugality, and devoting themselves to farmland and animal husbandry.
Most people compete to buy fields and livestock at low prices, but Ren specializes in buying expensive and good ones.
The Ren family has been wealthy for generations.
However, the Ren family's family contract stipulates that they cannot wear or eat items that are not obtained from their own farming and raising livestock, and they are not allowed to drink alcohol or eat meat until their official duties are completed.
He set an example for his fellow villagers, so he was rich and the emperor respected him.
When the frontier areas were opened up, only Qiao Yao obtained a thousand horses, two thousand cattle, ten thousand sheep, and tens of thousands of grains.
When the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled against the central court of the Han Dynasty, the princes and princes in Chang'an wanted to go out for the army and needed to borrow money with interest. The loan sharks believed that the princes and princes' food capitals were all in Guandong, and the outcome of the war in Guandong had not yet been decided, so no one was willing to lend them money.
Only the Wuyan clan loaned them thousands of gold, and the interest was ten times the principal.
Three months later, Wu Chu was pacified. In one year, the Wuyan family received ten times the interest on their principal, making them as wealthy as the wealthy people in Guanzhong.
Most of the wealthy businessmen in the Guanzhong area are from families named Tian, ​​such as Tian Si and Tian Lan.
There are also the Li family of the Wei family, the Du family of Anling and Du County, and their family assets also amount to tens of millions of money.
The above people are all famous and unique people.
None of them had titles, titles, salaries, or made fortunes by dancing, writing, or breaking laws. They all relied on speculation, making choices, adapting to circumstances, and making profits. They became rich by running commerce and industry, purchased land and engaged in agriculture to keep money, seized everything with various powerful means, and maintained it through written methods such as laws and decrees. The changes were like this, so it is worth recording.
As for those who devote themselves to agriculture, animal husbandry, handicrafts, mountains and forests, fishing and hunting, or business, they have become rich by virtue of their power and wealth. The big ones can overwhelm a county, the medium ones overwhelm a county, and the small ones overwhelm the villages. There are countless people.
Careful planning, hard work and frugality are the right ways to get rich, but those who want to get rich must also succeed unexpectedly.
Farming is a cumbersome industry, but Qin Yang relied on it to become the richest man in a state.
Tomb robbing was originally a criminal activity, but Uncle Tian made his fortune through it.
Gambling is a bad behavior, but Huan Fa made a fortune by relying on it.
Walking hawking is a despicable job for men, but Yong Lecheng made a fortune from it.
Selling grease was a shameful business, but Yong Bo made a fortune from it.
Selling water slurry was originally a small business, but Zhang made 10 million yuan from it.
Knife sharpening is a small craft, but the Zhi family relied on it to become rich and prosperous.
Selling sheep tripe was a trivial matter, but Zhuo became so rich through it that he could travel with horses and carriages.
Treating horses is a superficial skill, but Zhang Li became so rich by it that he struck the bell for food.
These people became rich because of their single-mindedness.
From this point of view, getting rich does not depend on a fixed industry, and wealth does not have a certain owner. People with skills can accumulate wealth, while people without skills will destroy their wealth.
A family with a thousand pieces of gold can be as good as the king of a city, and a rich man with a fortune of tens of millions can enjoy the same enjoyment as a king.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
岂所谓 素封 者邪？
非也？
translation: 
Is this the so-called "Su Feng"?
Isn't it?


