Chunk 0: 
original: 
王沈，字处道，太原晋阳人也。
祖柔，汉匈奴中郎将。
父机，魏东郡太守。
沈少孤，养于从叔司空昶，事昶如父。奉继母寡嫂以孝义称。
好书，善属文。
大将军曹爽辟为掾，累迁中书门下侍郎。
及爽诛，以故吏免。
后起为治书侍御史，转秘书监。
正元中，迁散骑常侍、侍中，典著作。
与荀顗、阮籍共撰《魏书》，多为时讳，未若陈寿之实录也。
时魏高贵乡公好学有文才，引沈及裴秀数于东堂讲宴属文，号沈为文籍先生，秀为儒林丈人。
及高贵乡公将攻文帝，召沈及王业告之，沈、业驰白帝，以功封安平侯，邑二千户。
沈既不忠于主，甚为众论所非。
寻迁尚书，出监豫州诸军事、奋武将军、豫州刺史。
至镇，乃下教曰： 自古贤圣，乐闻诽谤之言，听舆人之论，刍荛有可录之事，负薪有廊庙之语故也。
translation: 
Wang Chen, courtesy name Chudao, was born in Jinyang, Taiyuan.
His grandfather, Wang Rou, was a lieutenant general of the Huns in the Han Dynasty.
His father, Wang Ji, was the prefect of Wei Dong County.
When Wang Chen lost his father when he was young, he was adopted by his cousin Sikong Wang Chang. He served Wang Chang as if he were his biological father, and he was famous for his filial piety in serving his stepmother and widowed sister-in-law.
Good at reading and good at writing articles.
General Cao Shuang recruited him as a subordinate officer, and gradually moved to the position of minister under Zhongshu's family.
When Cao Shuang was executed, he was dismissed because of his status as an old official.
Later, he was appointed as the censor of the book administration department and transferred to the position of secretary supervisor.
During the Zhengyuan period, he was promoted to the rank of Sanqi Changshi and Shizhong, and was in charge of writings.
Together with Xunjie and Ruan Ji, he wrote the "Book of Wei". He often had hidden taboos and did not record it as truthfully as Chen Shou did.
At that time, Duke Gaogui of Wei was eager to learn and have literary talents. He invited Wang Chen and Pei Xiu to give lectures, banquets and write articles in Shutang many times.
Duke Gaogui was about to attack Emperor Wen, so he summoned Wang Shen and Wang Ye to tell them. Wang Chen and Wang Ye quickly reported to Emperor Wen, and they were granted the title of Marquis of Anping for their meritorious service. There are two thousand households in the city.
Because Wang Chen was disloyal to his master, he was criticized by public opinion.
Soon he was promoted to minister, and went out of the capital to supervise the military affairs of Yuzhou, General Fenwu, and governor of Yuzhou.
When he arrived at his post, he taught: The ancient sages like to listen to criticism and listen to the opinions of their servants. Those who cut grass and chop wood can also record things, and those who carry firewood can tell the affairs of the court.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
自至镇日，未闻逆耳之言，岂未明虚心，故令言者有疑。
其宣下属城及士庶，若能举遗逸于林薮，黜奸佞于州国，陈长吏之可否，说百姓之所患，兴利除害，损益昭然者，给谷五百斛。
若达一至之言，说刺史得失，朝政宽猛，令刚柔得适者，给谷千斛。
谓余不信，明如皎日。
主簿陈廞、褚曰： 奉省教旨，伏用感叹。
劳谦日昃，思闻苦言。
愚谓上之所好，下无不应。
而近未有极谏之辞，远无传言之箴者，诚得失之事将未有也。
今使教命班下，示以赏劝，将恐拘介之士，或惮赏而不言；贪赇之人，将慕利而妄举。
苟不合宜，赏不虚行，则远听者未知当否之所在，徒见言之不用，谓设有而不行。
愚以告下之事，可小须后。
translation: 
Since the day I arrived at my post, I haven't heard anything offensive. Is it because I didn't show my humility and made people suspicious?
Notify the city and the people of the city that if you can recommend reclusive talents from among the people, depose treacherous officials in the state, state the good and bad of officials, tell the people's worries, promote benefits and eliminate harm, and if the effect is remarkable, you will be given five hundred dendrobium of grain.
If it is a wise saying, commenting on the gains and losses of the governor, the leniency and strictness of the government, and the appropriateness of firmness and softness, a thousand dendrobium of grain will be given as a gift.
Don't say I'm dishonest, my integrity is like the bright sun.
Chen Chang and Chu Bi, the chief registrars, said: Reading the decree while holding the bundle in hand makes us sigh.
I am tired and humble from morning to night, and I still want to hear criticism.
We believe that what is good for the people above should be followed by the people below.
However, there are no people trying to persuade me around me, and there are no words of advice from far away. This is because there are almost no things related to gains and losses.
Now that the decree is promulgated, it means that there will be rewards and encouragement. I am afraid that some honest and self-restrained people will be afraid of the rewards and will not speak up; those who are greedy for money will make random reports for the sake of profit.
If the solicitation is not timely and unrealistic rewards are not given, then those who learn about the matter from afar do not know the details of the matter, see in vain that the promises are not fulfilled, and will say that the reward is empty but not implemented.
We believe that the announcement to the people can wait until later.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
沈又教曰： 夫德薄而位厚，功轻而禄重，贪夫之所徇，高士之所不处也。
若陈至言于刺史，兴益于本州，达幽隐之贤，去祝鮀之佞，立德于上，受分于下，斯乃君子之操，何不言之有！直言至理，忠也。
惠加一州，仁也。
功成辞赏，廉也。
兼斯而行，仁智之事，何故怀其道而迷其国哉！
褚复白曰： 尧、舜、周公所以能致忠谏者，以其款诚之心著也。
冰炭不言，而冷热之质自明者，以其有实也。
若好忠直，如冰炭之自然，则谔谔之臣，将济济而盈庭；逆耳之言，不求而自至。
若德不足以配唐虞，明不足以并周公，实不可以同冰炭，虽悬重赏，忠谏之言未可致也。
昔魏绛由和戎之功，蒙女乐之赐，管仲有兴齐之勋，而加上卿之礼，功勋明著，然后赏劝随之。
未闻张重赏以待谏臣，悬谷帛以求尽言也。
translation: 
Wang Chen also taught: Having shallow morals but high official status, light merit but high salary are what greedy people pursue, and what people with noble character will not take.
If you state wise words to the governor in order to revitalize the state, recommend secluded sages, and get rid of treacherous people like Zhu Duo, establish virtues above, and receive rewards from below, this is the behavior of a gentleman, how can you not say it! Speaking out the truth, this is loyalty.
Giving benefits to the people of a state is benevolence.
It is incorruptible to refuse rewards after one's merits have been accomplished.
Acting with loyalty, benevolence, and integrity in mind is a wise and benevolent thing. Why do you have doubts in this state when you are morally minded!
Chuangzhi added: The reason why Yao, Shun, and Zhou Gong were able to attract loyal admonitions was because they were sincere and sincere.
Ice charcoal does not speak, but the nature of cold and heat is naturally clear, because ice charcoal has the essence of cold and heat.
If you like loyalty and uprightness, it will be as natural as charcoal. The court will be filled with ministers who speak out and give advice; unsolicited remarks will come naturally.
If virtue is not good enough to match Tang and Yu, Ming is not good enough to associate with Qie Gong, and substance is not comparable to Bingtan, even if a heavy reward is offered, loyal and admonishing words will not come naturally.
In the past, Wei Jiang was rewarded with kabuki music because of his merits in forming alliances with foreign tribes, and his merits in revitalizing variables. Therefore, he was treated as a minister, his merits were obvious, and then he was given rewards and encouragement.
I have never heard of ministers who are waiting for advice with heavy rewards, using grains to obtain loyal advice.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
沈无以夺之，遂从议。
沈探寻善政，案贾逵以来法制禁令，诸所施行，择善者而从之。
又教曰： 后生不闻先王之教，而望政道日兴，不可得也。
文武并用，长久之道也。
俗化陵迟，不可不革。
革俗之要，实在敦学。
昔原伯鲁不悦学，闵马父知其必亡。
将吏子弟，优闲家门，若不教之，必致游戏，伤毁风俗矣。
于是九郡之士，咸悦道教，移风易俗。
迁征虏将军、持节、都督江北诸军事。
五等初建，封博陵侯，班在次国。
平蜀之役，吴人大出，声为救蜀，振荡边境，沈镇御有方，寇闻而退。
转镇南将军。
武帝即王位，拜御史大夫，守尚书令，加给事中。
沈以才望，显名当世，是以创业之事，羊祜、荀勖、裴秀、贾充等，皆与沈谘谋焉。
translation: 
Wang Chen did not refute him, so he followed Chu Bi's opinion.
Wang Chen searched for good governance and implemented the policies implemented according to the legal prohibitions since Jia Kui.
He also taught: It is impossible for young people to expect political morality to flourish day by day without learning from the teachings of the previous kings.
Using both civil and military forces is the way to achieve long-term peace and stability.
The folk customs have declined and have to be reformed.
The key to reforming old customs is actually to pay attention to learning.
In the past, Yuan Bolu was not good at learning, and Min Ma's father knew that he would fail.
The children of generals and officials are leisurely at home. If they are not educated, they will definitely play games with life and corrupt morals.
Therefore, the people of the nine counties all like moral education and changing customs.
He was promoted to General Zhenglu, Chijie, and Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in the north of the Yangtze River.
When the fifth-class title was first established, he was granted the title of Marquis of Boling, ranking second in the feudal state.
In the battle to pacify Shu, the Wu people went out in large numbers, claiming to save Shu, causing turmoil on the border. Wang Chen guarded the area well and the enemy retreated after hearing the sound.
He was transferred to General Zhennan.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and worshiped Wang Shen as the imperial censor. He abided by the Shangshu order and gave special advice to Shizhong.
Wang Chen was famous for his talents and fame at that time. Therefore, Yang Hu, Xun Xu, Pei Xiu, Jia Chong and others all discussed with Wang Chen about starting a business.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
及帝受禅，以佐命之勋，转骠骑将军、录尚书事，加散骑常侍，统城外诸军事。
封博陵郡公，固让不受，乃进爵为县公，邑千八百户。
帝方欲委以万机，泰始二年薨。
帝素服举哀，赐秘器朝服一具、衣一袭、钱三十万、布百匹、葬田一顷，谥曰元。
明年，帝追思沈勋，诏曰： 夫表扬往行，所以崇贤垂训，慎终纪远，厚德兴教也。
故散骑常侍、骠骑将军、博陵元公沈蹈礼居正，执心清粹，经纶坟典，才识通洽。
入历常伯纳言之位，出干监牧方岳之任，内著谋猷，外宣威略。
建国设官，首登公辅，兼统中朝，出纳大命，实有翼亮佐世之勋。
其赠沈司空公，以宠灵既往，使没而不朽。
又前以翼赞之勋，当受郡公之封，而固辞恳至，嘉其让德，不夺其志。
可以郡公官属送葬。
translation: 
When Emperor Wu accepted the abdication, because of his merits in assisting the emperor, he was transferred to the general of hussars, the secretary of green, and the regular attendant of casual cavalry to control the military outside the city.
He was granted the title of Duke of Boling County, but he resolutely refused to accept it, so he was promoted to the title of County Duke and granted the title of 1,800 households.
The emperor was about to appoint him as a minister in power, but he died in the second year of Taishi.
The emperor wore plain clothes to express his condolences, and gave the coffin a set of court clothes, a set of clothes, 300,000 yuan, 100 pieces of cloth, and a hectare of land for burial, with the title of Yuan.
The next year, the emperor recalled Wang Shen's achievements and issued an edict: "To praise the past merits is to respect the virtuous and spread the ancient teachings, to pay careful attention to the dead and commemorate the ancestors, to promote morality and promote religion."
The late Sanqi Changshi, Hussar General, and Prince Boling Yuangong Wang Shen followed etiquette and lived in the right path. He was loyal, honest and pure. He studied ancient books carefully and was knowledgeable.
He held the official position of Chang Bonayan successively in the imperial court, taking on the important task of governing a party when going abroad, making plans internally, and showing his power and strategies externally.
When establishing a country and setting up official positions, he first ascends to the position of three ministers and assistant ministers, and is also responsible for the internal affairs of the court and issuing the emperor's orders. This is indeed a meritorious service to assist the country.
He gave it to Wang Shen Sikong Gong posthumously to express his favor to the past and make him immortal after death.
In addition, because of his assistant's meritorious service, he should have been knighted by the Duke, but he firmly refused, praising his modest character and not changing his ambition.
The officials of the county can be allowed to attend the funeral.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
沈素清俭，不营产业。
其使所领兵作屋五十间。
子浚嗣。
后沈夫人荀氏卒，将合葬，沈棺榇已毁，更赐东园秘器。
咸宁中，复追封沈为郡公。
浚字彭祖。
母赵氏妇，良家女也，贫贱，出入沈家，遂生浚，沈初不齿之。
年十五，沈薨，无子，亲戚共立浚为嗣，拜驸马都尉。
太康初，与诸王侯俱就国。
三年来朝，除员外散骑侍郎。
元康初，转员外常侍，迁越骑校尉、右军将军。
出补河内太守，以郡公不得为二千石，转东中郎将，镇许昌。
及愍怀太子幽于许昌，浚承贾后旨，与黄门孙虑共害太子。
迁宁北将军、青州刺史。
寻徙宁朔将军、持节、都督幽州诸军事。
于时朝廷昏乱，盗贼蜂起，浚为自安之计，结好夷狄，以女妻鲜卑务勿尘，又以一女妻苏恕延。
translation: 
Wang Chen was always honest and frugal, and did not own any property.
He sent the soldiers he led to build fifty houses.
He was succeeded by his son Wang Jun.
Later, Wang Shen's wife Xun passed away and they were to be buried together. Wang Shen's coffin had decayed, so they were given a new coffin for the nobles.
During the Xianning period, Wang Shen was granted the title of Duke.
Wang Jun's courtesy name is Peng Zu.
The mother's surname was Tang, and she was the daughter of an innocent family. Her family was poor. She went to Wang Shen's house, so she gave birth to Wang Jun. Wang Chen despised him at first.
When Wang Jun was fifteen years old, Wang Chen passed away without a son. His relatives jointly made Wang Jun his heir, and he was worshiped as Prince Consort.
In the early years of Taikang, he and all the princes went to the feudal country.
Three years later, he returned to Beijing to see him and was appointed as the minister of foreign cavalry.
In the early years of Yuankang, he was transferred to Yuanwai Changshi, and was promoted to Yue Cavalry School Lieutenant and General of the Right Army.
He left the capital to serve as the governor of Hanoi, but because the county prince could not be appointed as the governor, he was transferred to General Dong Zhonglang to guard Xuchang.
When Prince Minhuai was imprisoned in Xuchang, Wang Jun followed Empress Jia's will and killed the prince together with Sun Lu of Huangmen.
He was promoted to general of Ningbei and governor of Qingzhou.
Soon he was appointed as General Ningshuo, Chijie, and Commander-in-Chief of Youzhou's military affairs.
At that time, the court was in chaos and thieves were emerging. For his own safety, Wang Jun made friends with Yi Di and married one of his daughters to Xianbei Wu Wuchen and the other to Su Shuyan.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
及赵王伦篡位，三王起义兵，浚拥众挟两端，遏绝檄书，使其境内士庶不得赴义，成都王颖欲讨之而未暇也。
伦诛，进号安北将军。
及河间王颙、成都王颖兴兵内向，害长沙王乂，而浚有不平之心。
颖表请幽州刺史石堪为右司马，以右司马和演代堪，密使演杀浚，并其众。
演与乌丸单于审登谋之，于是与浚期游蓟城南清泉水上。
蓟城内西行有二道，演浚各从一道。
演与浚欲合卤簿，因而图之。
值天暴雨，兵器沾湿，不果而还。
单于由是与其种人谋曰： 演图杀浚，事垂克而天卒雨，使不得果，是天助浚也。
违天不祥，我不可久与演同。
乃以谋告浚。
浚密严兵，与单于围演。
演持白幡诣浚降，遂斩之，自领幽州。
大营器械，召务勿尘，率胡晋合二万人，进军讨颖。
以主溥祁弘为前锋，遇颖将石超于平棘，击败之。
浚乘胜遂克鄴城，士众暴掠，死者甚多。
鲜卑大略妇女，浚命敢有挟藏者斩，于是沉于易水者八千人。
黔庶荼毒，自此始也。
translation: 
After King Sima Lun of Zhao usurped the throne, the three kings raised troops to protest. Wang Jun led the troops to wait and see, preventing the message from being passed on, so that the people in his territory could not join the rebel army. King Sima Ying of Chengdu wanted to attack Wang Jun but had no time.
King Zhao Sima Lun was executed, and Wang Junjin was named General Anbei.
When Sima Yi, king of Hejian, and Sima Ying, king of Chengdu, attacked Luoyang and killed Sima Yi, king of Changsha, Wang Jun felt indignant.
Sima Ying petitioned Youzhou Governor Shi Kan to serve as You Sima, replaced Shi Kan with You Sima He Yan, and secretly ordered He Yan to kill Wang Jun and annex Wang Jun's army.
Heyan and Wuwan Shanyu Shendeng planned this matter, so they agreed with Wang Jun to go to the clear spring in the south of Jicheng to play.
There are two roads going west in Jicheng, one for He Yan and one for Wang Jun.
He Yan prepared to take the opportunity to strike when he met Wang Jun with the honor guard.
It was raining heavily and all the weapons were wet, so they returned without being able to realize their plan.
Shan Yu therefore plotted with his fellow tribesmen and said: He Yan planned to kill Wang Jun, but when he was about to succeed, it rained and the plan failed to come true. This is God's help to Wang Jun.
Going against God's will is unlucky, and I cannot be complicit with He Yan for a long time.
So he told Wang Jun his plan.
Wang Jun secretly ordered the army to impose martial law, and He Chanyu surrounded He Yan.
He Yan took the white banner and went to Wang Jun's place to surrender, so He Yan was killed and Wang Jun occupied Youzhou himself.
He built equipment on a large scale, summoned Wuchen, and led a total of 20,000 Hu and Jin people to march against Sima Ying.
With Chief Qi Hong as the vanguard, he encountered Sima Ying's general Shi Chao in Pingji and defeated Shi Chao.
Wang Jun took advantage of the victory and captured Yecheng. The soldiers looted and looted brutally, and many people died.
The Xianbei people plundered women wantonly. Wang Jun ordered the beheading of women who dared to hide them, so eight thousand people were thrown into the Yishui River.
The disaster for the people began at this time.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
浚还蓟，声实益盛。
东海王越将迎大驾，浚遣祁弘率乌丸突骑为先驱。
惠帝旋洛阳，转浚骠骑大将军、都督东夷河北诸军事，领幽州刺史，以燕国增博陵之封。
怀帝即位，以浚为司空，领乌丸校尉，务勿尘为大单于。
浚又表封务勿尘辽西郡公，其别部大飘滑及其弟渴末别部大屠甕等皆为亲晋王。
永嘉中，石勒寇冀州，浚遣鲜卑文鸯讨勒，勒走南阳。
明年，勒复寇冀州，刺史王斌为勒所害，浚又领冀州。
诏进浚为大司马，加侍中、大都督、督幽冀诸军事。
使者未及发，会洛京倾覆，浚大树威令，专征伐，遣督护王昌、中山太守阮豹等，率诸军及务勿尘世子疾陆眷，并弟文鸯、从弟末柸，攻石勒于襄国，勒率众来距，昌逆击败之。
末柸逐北入其垒门，为勒所获。
勒质末柸，遣间使来和，疾陆眷遂以铠马二百五十匹、金银各一簏赎末柸，结盟而退。
其后浚布告天下，称受中诏承制，乃以司空荀籓为太尉，光禄大夫荀组为司隶，大司农华荟为太常，中书令李絙为河南尹。
又遣祁弘讨勒，及于广宗。
时大雾，弘引军就道，卒与勒遇，为勒所杀。
translation: 
Wang Jun returned to Ji, and his reputation and strength became even stronger.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, will welcome the emperor, and Wang Jun sends Qi Hong to lead Karasuma's cavalry as the vanguard.
Emperor Hui returned to Luoyang, and Wang Jun was transferred to General Hussar, Commander-in-Chief of Shu Yi and Hebei military forces, and governor of Youzhou, using the Yan Kingdom to increase the fiefdom of Boling.
Emperor Huai ascended the throne and appointed Wang Jun as Sikong and Wuwan Xiaowei, and Wu Wuchen as the Great Chanyu.
Wang Jun also petitioned to grant Wu Wuchen the title of Duke of Western Liaoning, and his subordinate Da Piaohua and his younger brother Kemo's subordinate Datu Weng and others as pro-Jin kings.
During the Yongjia period, Shi Le invaded Jizhou. Wang Jun sent the Xianbei people Wenyang to conquer Shi Le, but Shi Le fled to Nanyang.
The next year, Shi Le invaded Jizhou again, and the governor Wang Bin was killed by Shile. Wang Jun also took charge of Jizhou.
The imperial edict was issued and Wang Jun was granted the title of Grand Sima, with the title of Shizhong, Grand Governor, and Supervisor of Youji and other military affairs.
Before the envoy could be dispatched, just as Luojing was overthrown, Wang Jun established his authority and decided to conquer. He sent the Protector Wang Chang, the Governor of Zhongshan Ruan Bao and others to lead all the troops and Wu Wuchen's eldest son Ji Lujuan, his younger brother Wenyang, and his cousin Mobai to attack Shile in Xiangguo. Shi Le led his troops to resist, but Wang Chang attacked and defeated him.
Mo Xiao was captured by Shi Le because he chased the defeated soldiers into the gate of Shi Le's camp.
Shi Le took Mo Ji as a hostage and sent a secret envoy to sue for peace. Ji Lu's family used 250 armored horses and a chest of gold and silver to redeem Mo Ji, and then retreated after forming an alliance.
Afterwards, Wang Jun announced to the world that he had accepted the imperial edict and upheld the will. He appointed Sikong Xunfan as Taiwei, Guanglu doctor Xunzu as Sili, Dasi Nong Hua Cang as Taichang, and Zhongshu Ling Li Jun as Henan Yin.
He also sent Qi Hong to conquer Shi Le and arrived at Guangzong.
There was heavy fog at that time, and Qi Hong led the army on the road. He met Shi Le in a hurry and was killed.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
由是刘琨与浚争冀州。
琨使宗人刘希还中山合众，代郡、上谷、广宁三郡人皆归于琨。
浚患之，遂辍讨勒之师，而与琨相距。
浚遣燕相胡矩督护诸军，与疾陆眷并力攻破希。
驱略三郡士女出塞，琨不复能争。
浚还，欲讨勒，使枣嵩督诸军屯易水，召疾陆眷，将与之俱攻襄国。
浚为政苛暴，将吏又贪残，并广占山泽，引水灌田，渍陷冢墓，调发殷烦，下不堪命，多叛入鲜卑。
从事韩咸切谏，浚怒，杀之。
疾陆眷自以前后违命，恐浚诛之。
勒亦遣使厚赂，疾陆眷等由是不应召。
浚怒，以重币诱单于猗卢子右贤王日律孙，令攻疾陆眷，反为所破。
时刘琨大为刘聪所迫，诸避乱游士多归于浚。
浚日以强盛，乃设坛告类，建立皇太子，备置众官。
浚自领尚书令，以枣嵩、裴宪并为尚书，使其子居王宫，持节，领护匈奴中郎将，以妻舅崔毖为东夷校尉。
又使嵩监司冀并兗诸军事、行安北将军，以田徽为兗州，李恽为青州。
恽为石勒所杀，以薄盛代之。
浚以父字处道，为 当涂高 应王者之谶，谋将僭号。
胡矩谏浚，盛陈其不可。
浚忿之，出矩为魏郡守。
前渤海太守刘亮、从子北海太守搏、司空掾高柔并切谏，浚怒，诛之。
浚素不平长史燕国王悌，遂因他事杀之。
translation: 
As a result, Liu Kun and Wang Jun fought for Jizhou.
Liu Kun sent Liu Xi, a member of the clan, back to Zhongshan to gather troops, and people from Daijun, Shanggu, and Guangxiang counties all surrendered to Liu Kun.
Wang Jun felt worried, so he stopped attacking Shi Le and confronted Liu Kun.
Wang Jun sent Yan Prime Minister Hu Ju to supervise the armies, and worked with Ji Lu's family members to defeat Liu Xi.
After driving and plundering the men and women from the three counties, Liu Kun had no strength to fight anymore.
Wang Kui withdrew his troops and planned to attack Huqin. He sent Zao Ya to supervise all the troops to garrison in Yishui. He summoned Lu family members to attack Xiang State with him.
Wang Jun was harsh and cruel, and the generals and officials were greedy and cruel. They invaded the mountains and rivers, diverted water to irrigate the fields, flooded the tombs, and made frequent dispatches. The people below could not bear it, and many defected to Xianbei.
When Han Xian earnestly advised him, Wang Jun became angry and killed him.
Ji Lujuan believed that he had violated orders before and after, and was afraid that Wang Jun would kill him.
Shi Le also sent people to bribe him, so Ji Lujuan and others did not accept the call.
Wang Jun was angry and lured Shan Yu Yilu's son, King Youxian, called Lusun, with a lot of money, and ordered him to attack Ji Lu Juan, but he was defeated by Ji Lu Juan.
At that time, Liu Kun was pressed hard by Liu Cong, and many people who fled the chaos and wandered joined Wang Jun.
Wang Jun became stronger and stronger day by day, so he set up an altar to announce to the temple and established the crown prince. Set officials.
Wang Jun himself was also the Minister of the Secretariat, and appointed Zao Song and Pei Xian as the Ministers together. He also appointed his son to live in the palace, observe integrity, lead and protect the Xiongnu lieutenant general, and appointed his wife's uncle Cui Ao as the Shuyi captain.
He also appointed Zaosong as the Supervisor of Ji and Yanzhu Military Affairs, and made him the general of Anbei. Tian Hui was appointed the governor of Yanzhou, and Li Tan was appointed the governor of Qingzhou.
Li Fan was killed by Shi Le and Bo Sheng replaced him.
Wang Jun planned to become emperor because of the prophecy that his father, whose name was Chudao, and Dangtu Gao should be crowned king.
Hu Ju advised Wang Jun and tried his best to state that it was not possible.
Wang Jun resented him and sent Hu Ju as the governor of Wei County.
The former Bohai Governor Liu Liang, his nephew Beihai Governor Wang Bo, and Sikong Peng Gaorou all earnestly advised him. Wang Jun became angry and killed them.
Wang Jun had always resented Wang Ti, a native of Yan State, who had a long history, so he killed him on the pretext of other matters.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
时童谣曰： 十囊五囊入枣郎。
枣嵩，浚之子婿也。
浚闻，责嵩而不能罪之也。
又谣曰： 幽州城门似藏户，中有伏尸王彭祖。
有狐踞府门，翟雉入听事。
时燕国霍原，北州名贤，浚以僭位事示之，原不答，浚遂害之。
由是士人愤怨，内外无亲。
以矜豪日甚，不亲为政，所任多苛刻；加亢旱灾蝗，士卒衰弱。
浚之承制也，参佐皆内叙，唯司马游统外出。
统怨，密与石勒通谋。
勒乃诈降于浚，许奉浚为主。
时百姓内叛，疾陆眷等侵逼。
浚喜勒之附己，勒遂为卑辞以事之。献遗珍宝，使驿相继。
浚以勒为诚，不复设备。
勒乃遣使克日上尊号于浚，浚许之。
勒屯兵易水，督护孙纬疑其诈，驰白浚，而引军逆勒。
translation: 
The nursery rhyme at that time said: Ten pockets and five pockets all went into Zaolang's pocket.
Zaosong is Wang Jun's son-in-law.
Wang Jun heard the nursery rhymes and scolded Zaosong but could not punish him.
Another nursery rhyme says: The gate of Youzhou City is like a warehouse, with the corpse king Peng Zu inside.
There is a fox squatting at the gate of the house, and pheasants flying into the hall.
At that time, Huo Yuan, a native of Yan State, was a famous sage in the northern prefecture. Wang Jun told him about usurping the throne and becoming king. Huo Yuan did not answer, so Wang Jun killed him.
As a result, the officials and the people were resentful, and there were no confidants inside or outside.
As Wang Jun became more arrogant and neglected government affairs, most of the people he appointed were mean and cruel. Coupled with the severe drought and locust plague, the soldiers were weakened.
When Wang Jun was appointed an official by decree, all his staff were serving in the court, but Sima Youtong was the only one who left the capital.
You Tong was angry and secretly conspired with Shi Le.
Shi Le pretended to surrender to Wang Jun and promised to respect Wang Jun as his master.
At that time, the people were in civil strife, and Ji Lujuan and others invaded and invaded.
Wang Jun was pleased that Shi Le had joined him, so Shi Le served him with humble words, offered treasures, and sent constant envoys.
Wang Jun believed that Shi Le was honest and would not put up any more defenses.
Shi Le then sent an envoy to agree on a date to honor Wang Jun with his title, and Wang Jun agreed.
Shi Le garrisoned troops in Yishui. Supervisor Sun Wei suspected that there was fraud, so he quickly reported to Wang Jun and led his troops to stop Shi Le.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
浚不听，使勒直前。
众议皆曰： 胡贪而无信，必有诈，请距之。
浚怒，欲斩诸言者，众遂不敢复谏。
盛张设以待勒。
勒至城，便纵兵大掠。
浚左右复请讨之，不许。
及勒登听事，浚乃走出堂皇，勒众执以见勒。
勒遂与浚妻并坐，立浚于前。
浚骂曰： 胡奴调汝公，何凶逆如此！
勒数浚不忠于晋，并责以百姓馁乏，积粟五十万斛而不振给。
遂遣五百骑先送浚于襄国，收浚麾下精兵万人，尽杀之。
停二日而还，孙纬遮击之，勒仅而得免。
勒至襄国，斩浚，而浚竟不为之屈，大骂而死。
无子。
太元二年，诏兴灭继绝，封沈从孙道素为博陵公。
卒，子崇之嗣。
义熙十一年，改封东莞郡公。
宋受禅，国除。
荀顗，字景倩，颍川人，魏太尉彧之第六子也。
translation: 
Wang Jun refused to listen and asked Shi Le to move forward.
Everyone agreed: The barbarians are greedy and unfaithful, and there must be fraud among them. Please stop him.
Wang Jun became angry and wanted to kill those who made comments, so no one dared to dissuade him.
Shi Le was received with great extravagance.
When Shi Le arrived in the city, he allowed his soldiers to plunder.
Wang Jun's men asked to attack him again, but Wang Jun refused.
When Shi Le came to the hall, Wang Jun ran out of the hall and was caught by Shi Le's men to see Shi Le.
Shi Le then sat side by side with Wang Jun's wife, letting Wang Jun stand in front of him.
Wang Jun scolded: Hu Nu deceived your father, why are you so cruel and rebellious!
Shi Le scolded Wang Jun for being unloyal to the Jin Dynasty, and blamed him for the fact that the people were hungry and destitute, and he had stockpiled 500,000 grains but did not use it for relief.
So they sent 500 cavalry to escort Wang Jun back to Xiangguo, captured tens of thousands of Wang Jun's elite soldiers, and killed them all.
After staying for two days, he withdrew. Sun Wei blocked him and Shi Le barely escaped.
Shi Le arrived in Xiangguo and killed Wang Jun, but Wang Jun refused to yield and cursed to death.
Wang Jun has no sons.
In the second year of Taiyuan, an edict was issued to promote the destruction of the country and succeed Jueshi, and made Wang Shen's nephew Daosu the Duke of Boling.
After his death, he was succeeded by his son Chongzhi.
In the eleventh year of Yixi's reign, he was renamed Dongguan County Duke.
Song accepted the abdication and the feudal state was cancelled.
Xunjie, courtesy name Jingqian, was from Yingchuan and was the sixth son of Wei Taiwei Xun You.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
幼为姊婿陈群所赏。
性至孝，总角知名，博学洽闻，理思周密。
魏时以父勋除中郎。
宣帝辅政，见顗奇之，曰： 荀令君之子也。
擢拜散骑侍郎，累迁侍中。
为魏少帝执经，拜骑都尉，赐爵关内侯。
难钟会《易》无互体，又与扶风王骏论仁孝孰先，见称于世。
时曹爽专权，何晏等欲害太常傅嘏，顗营救得免。
及高贵乡公立，顗言于景帝曰： 今上践阼，权道非常，宜速遣使宣德四方，且察外志。
毌丘俭、文钦果不服，举兵反。
顗预讨俭等有功，进爵万岁亭侯，邑四百户。
文帝辅政，迁尚书。
帝征诸葛诞，留顗镇守。
顗甥陈泰卒，顗代泰为仆射，领吏部，四辞而后就职。
顗承泰后，加之淑慎，综核名实，风俗澄正。
咸熙中，迁司空，进爵乡侯。
顗年逾耳顺，孝养蒸蒸，以母忧去职，毁几灭性，海内称之。
文帝奏，宜依汉太傅胡广丧母故事，给司空吉凶导从。
及蜀平，兴复五等，命顗定礼仪。
顗上请羊祜、任恺、庚峻、应贞、孔颢共删改旧文，撰定晋礼。
咸熙初，封临淮侯。
武帝践阼，进爵为公，食邑一千八百户。
translation: 
When he was young, he was appreciated by his brother-in-law Chen Qun.
He was extremely filial by nature, and was famous at an early age, with extensive knowledge and thoughtful thinking.
Wei Shi was appointed Zhonglang because of his father's meritorious service.
Emperor Xuan assisted in the government affairs and was surprised to see Xun Hao and said, "He is really Xun Lingjun's son."
He was promoted to the rank of Sanqi Shilang, and then promoted to the rank of Shizhong.
He taught classics to the young emperor of Wei. He was worshiped as a cavalry captain and given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
He criticized Zhong Huizhi for not being consistent in the Book of Changes, and he discussed with Sima Jun, the king of Fufeng, about who should be the leader in benevolence and filial piety, which was praised by the world.
At that time, Cao Shuang had sole power. He Yan and others wanted to harm Taichang Fu Gu, but Xun Hao rescued him and saved him from danger.
When Gao Guixiang Gong came to the throne, Xunjie said to Emperor Jing: Now that the emperor has ascended the throne, the way to obtain the monarchy is unusual. We should quickly send people to various places to declare benevolence and observe the trends in the outside world.
His mothers Qiu Jian and Wen Qin were indeed dissatisfied and sent troops to rebel.
Xunjie participated in the expedition against Ceqiu Jian and others and made meritorious service. He was promoted to the title of Marquis of Wansuiting and was granted the title of 400 households.
When Emperor Wen assisted in government affairs, he was promoted to Shangshu.
Emperor Wen conquered Zhuge Dan and left Xunjie to guard him.
Xunjie's nephew Chen Tai died. Xunjie replaced Chen Tai as a servant and was also in charge of the staff. He resigned four times and then took office.
Xun Hao succeeded Chen Tai and became more respectful and prudent, comprehensively assessed reputation and reality, and clarified customs.
During the reign of Xianxi, he was promoted to Sikong and became a rural marquis.
Xunjie was over sixty years old. He was filial and devoted. He resigned from his post because of his mother's funeral. He was so sad that he almost lost his mind. He was praised throughout the country.
Emperor Wen ordered that Sikong should be given a funeral ceremonial entourage in accordance with the precedent of the Han Dynasty Fu Guang's funeral for his mother.
After Shu was pacified, five levels of nobility were established, and Xun Zhuan was ordered to formulate etiquette.
Xun Yun Shangshu asked Yang Hu, Ren Kai, Yu Jun, Ying Zhen, and Kong Hao to jointly delete the old regulations and compile the Jin etiquette.
In the early years of Xianxi's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Linhuai.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne, was promoted to the title of Duke, and had 1,800 households living in the city.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
又诏曰： 昔禹命九官，契敷五教，所以弘崇王化，示人轨仪也。
朕承洪业，昧于大道，思训五品，以康四海。
侍中、司空顗，明允笃诚，思心通远，翼亮先皇，遂辅朕躬，实有佐命弼导之勋。
宜掌教典，以隆时雍。
其以顗为司徒。
寻加侍中，迁太尉、都督城外牙门诸军事，置司马亲兵百人。
顷之，又诏曰： 侍中、太尉顗，温恭忠允，至行纯备，博古洽闻，耆艾不殆。
其以公行太子太傅，侍中、太尉如故。
时以《正德》、《大豫》雅颂未合，命顗定乐。
事未终，以泰始十年薨。
帝为举哀，皇太子临丧，二宫赙赠，礼秩有加。
诏曰： 侍中、太尉、行太子太傅、临淮公顗，清纯体道，忠允立朝，历司外内，茂绩既崇，训傅东宫，徽猷弘著，可谓行归于周，有始有卒者矣。
translation: 
He also went to Shao and said: In the past, Yu appointed nine officials to carry out the five religions, to uphold the king's teachings and show the laws and etiquette.
I accepted the great cause, but I was ignorant of the Dao. I wanted to teach the people the five ethics to make the world peaceful.
Attendant and Sikong Xunzhuan, fair, honest and ambitious, assisted the late emperor and me. He really has the merit of assisting and tutoring the emperor.
He should be in charge of enlightenment rituals to make the world more stable and peaceful.
Xunjie was appointed Situ.
Soon he was appointed as a sergeant, and was promoted to Taiwei and Commander-in-Chief of all the military affairs in Yamen outside the city. He was assigned a hundred personal soldiers of Sima.
Soon after, another edict was issued saying: "Shi Zhong, Taiwei Xun Pin, is gentle, respectful, loyal and fair, has pure conduct, is knowledgeable about ancient affairs and is knowledgeable, and is not slacking off despite his advanced age."
Let him act as the Crown Prince and Tutor, and his official positions of Shizhong and Taiwei will remain.
At that time, because the elegant songs in "Zhengde" and "Dayu" did not match, Xunhao was ordered to settle the music.
Before the matter was over, he died in the tenth year of Taishi.
The emperor mourned for him, the crown prince attended the funeral in person, and the emperor and empress presented items for the funeral furnace. The etiquette level exceeded the norm.
The edict said: "Servants, Taiwei, Princes and Tutors, Linhuai Gong Xun Chan, have pure conduct and follow morality, are honest and fair in government, hold various internal and external official positions, have outstanding achievements, teach the prince, and promote good and beautiful ways. They can be said to be people with perfect behavior, beginning and ending."


Chunk 13: 
original: 
不幸薨殂，朕甚痛之。
其赐温明秘器、朝服一具，衣一袭。
谥曰康。 又诏曰： 太尉不恤私门，居无馆宇，素丝之志，没而弥显。
其赐家钱二百万，使立宅舍。
咸宁初，诏论次功臣，将配飨宗庙。
所司奏顗等十二人铭功太常，配飨清庙。
顗明《三礼》，知朝廷大仪，而无质直之操，唯阿意苟合于荀勖、贾充之间。
初，皇太子将纳妃，顗上言贾充女姿德淑茂，可以参选，以此获讥于世。
顗无子，以从孙徽嗣。
中兴初，以顗兄玄孙序为顗后，封临淮公。
序卒，又绝，孝武帝又封序子恆继顗后。
恆卒，子龙符嗣。
宋受禅，国除。
荀勖，字公曾，颍川颍阴人，汉司空爽曾孙也。
祖棐，射声校尉。
父肸，早亡。
勖依于舅氏。
岐嶷夙成，年十余岁能属文。
从外祖魏太傅钟繇曰： 此兒当及其曾祖。
既长，遂博学，达于从政。
translation: 
I am very sad that he passed away unfortunately.
Give him a coffin, a court dress, and a set of clothes. Mi Hao Kang.
He also issued an edict saying: The Taiwei did not care about his own home, he did not live in a gorgeous house, and his frugal ambitions became even more famous after his death.
Give his family two million dollars and let them build a house.
In the early years of Xianning, an edict was issued to rank the meritorious officials and to offer sacrifices in the ancestral temple.
The official in charge asked Xun Hao and other twelve people to inscribe their achievements on Taichang's wrapping and offer them as sacrifices in the ancestral temple.
Xun Pin understood the "Three Rites" and the court etiquette, but he had no upright moral integrity and only catered to Xun Xu and Jia Chong.
At the beginning, when the crown prince was about to marry a concubine, Xunjie said that Jia Chong's daughter Zunrong had good moral character and could stand for election, so she was ridiculed by people at the time.
Xun Zhuan had no sons, so his grandnephew Xun Hui succeeded him.
In the early years of the Jin Dynasty's southern crossing to An'an, Xunxu, the great-great-grandson of Xunjie's brother, became a descendant of Xunjie and was granted the title of Duke of Linhuai.
When Xun Xu died and there was no successor, Emperor Xiaowu granted Xun Xu's son Xun Heng the title of successor to Xun Zhuan.
Xun Heng died and was succeeded by his son Xun Longfu.
Song accepted the abdication and the feudal state was cancelled.
Xun Xu, whose courtesy name was Gongzeng, was from Yingyin, Yingchuan. He was the great-grandson of Xun Shuang, Sikong of the Han Dynasty.
His grandfather Xun Lai was appointed as the captain of Shesheng.
My father suffered from swelling and died early.
Xun Xu stayed at his uncle's house.
He is smart and early in life and can write articles in his teens.
Grandfather Wei Taifu Zhong Yao said: "Sending children will catch up with his great-grandfather."
When he grows up, he is knowledgeable and good at politics.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
仕魏，辟大将军曹爽掾，迁中书通事郎。
爽诛，门生故吏无敢往者，勖独临赴，众乃从之。
为安阳令，转骠骑从事中郎。
勖有遗爱，安阳生为立祠。
迁廷尉正，参文帝大将军军事，赐爵关内侯，转从事中郎，领记室。
高贵乡公欲为变时，大将军掾孙佑等守阊阖门。
帝弟安阳侯干闻难欲入，佑谓干曰： 未有入者，可从东掖门。
及干至，帝迟之，干以状白，帝欲族诛佑。
勖谏曰： 孙佑不纳安阳，诚宜深责。
然事有逆顺，用刑不可以喜怒为轻重。
今成倅刑止其身，佑乃族诛，恐义士私议。
乃免佑为庶人。
时官骑路遗求为刺客入蜀，勖言于帝曰： 明公以至公宰天下，宜杖正义以伐违贰。
而名以刺客除贼，非所谓刑于四海，以德服远也。
translation: 
He served as an official in Wei, serving as a subordinate to General Cao Shuang, and was promoted to Zhongshu Tongshilang.
When Cao Shuang was killed, his disciples and old officials did not dare to go to the funeral. Only Xun Xu went and everyone followed him.
He was appointed as the Order of Anyang, and then transferred to the position of Huqi and Zhonglang.
Xun Xu left a legacy of love, and his disciples in Anyang built an ancestral hall for him.
He was promoted to Tingweizheng, participated in the military affairs of Emperor Wen's general, and was given the title of Marquis of Guannei. He was transferred to work as a lieutenant and also as a recorder.
When Duke Gaogui wanted to launch a coup, the general sent Sun You and others to guard the gates of Khotan.
Anyang Hou Sima Qian, the younger brother of Emperor Wen, heard that he was in trouble and wanted to enter the city. Sun You said to Sima Qian: Those who have not entered can enter through Dongye Gate.
Sima Qian arrived. Emperor Wen thought he was late. Sima Qian told him the reason. Emperor Wen wanted to destroy Sun You's family.
Xun Xu Jin remonstrated and said: Sun You should be punished for not accepting the Marquis of Anyang.
However, things have seriousness, and punishment cannot be decided based on happiness and anger.
Now that Cheng Chou's punishment was limited to himself, but Sun You's entire family was killed, I'm afraid the righteous people will discuss it privately.
So Sun You was exempted from civilian status.
At that time, the official cavalry sent a request to enter the Shu Kingdom as an assassin. Gou Xu said to Emperor Wen: Duke Ming rules the world by justice, and he should rely on justice to defeat disobedience.
If you rely on assassins to eliminate enemies, you will not be the so-called model of the world. Relying on virtue to make distant people surrender.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
帝称善。
及钟会谋反，审问未至，而外人先告之。
帝待会素厚，未之信也。
勖曰： 会虽受恩，然其性未可许以见得思义，不可不速为之备。
帝即出镇长安，主簿郭奕、参军王深以勖是会从甥，少长舅氏，劝帝斥出之。
帝不纳，而使勖陪乘，待之如初。
先是，勖启 伐蜀，宜以卫瓘为监军 。
及蜀中乱，赖瓘以济。
会平，还洛，与裴秀、羊祜共管机密。
时将发使聘吴，并遣当时文士作书与孙皓，帝用勖所作。
皓既报命和亲，帝谓勖曰： 君前作书，使吴思顺，胜十万之众也。
帝即晋王位，以勖为侍中，封安阳子，邑千户。
武帝受禅，改封济北郡公。
勖以羊祜让，乃固辞为侯。
拜中书监，加侍中，领著作，与贾充共定律令。
充将镇关右也，勖谓冯紞曰： 贾公远放，吾等失势。
太子婚尚未定，若使充女得为妃，则不留而自停矣。
勖与紞伺帝间并称 充女才色绝世，若纳东宫，必能辅佐君子，有《关雎》后妃之德。
遂成婚。
translation: 
Emperor Wen thought it was right.
When Zhong Hui rebelled, the details had not yet been discovered, and outsiders came to report first.
Emperor Wen had always been kind to Zhong Hui and did not believe that he would rebel.
Xun Xu said: Although Zhong Hui was favored, he was not necessarily loyal by nature, so he had to take precautions.
Emperor Wen immediately went out to guard Chang'an. Guo Yi, the chief secretary, and Wang Shen, who joined the army, persuaded Emperor Wen to repel Xun Xu because he was Zhong Hui's nephew and uncle. He grew up in his uncle's family when he was young.
Emperor Wen did not accept it, but asked Xun Xu to accompany him and treated him as before.
Before this, Xun Xu stated that in order to conquer Shu, Wei Xuan should be appointed as the supervisor of the army.
When the war broke out in Shu, it was all up to Wei Xuan to maintain it.
After the Zhonghui rebellion was put down, he returned to Luoyang and took charge of important departments together with Pei Xiu and Yang Rong.
At that time, an envoy was sent to visit the State of Wu, and the literati at that time were asked to write documents to Sun Hao. Emperor Wen chose the document written by Xun Xu.
Sun Hao replied that he agreed to the marriage, and Emperor Wen said to Xun Xu: The documents you wrote before made Wu Guo want to submit, which is better than a hundred thousand troops.
Emperor Wen ascended the throne of Jin and appointed Xunxu as his minister. He was granted the title of Anyangzi and was granted a settlement of 1,000 households.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and was granted the title of Duke of Jibei County.
Xun Xu resolutely refused and became a marquis because of Yang Hu's modesty.
The official worship was Zhongshu Supervisor, and he was added as a servant. He was also in charge of writings and jointly formulated laws and regulations with Jia Chong.
Jia Chong was about to guard Guanyou, and Xun Xu said to Feng Shou: "If you buy a public servant, you will be sent far away, and we will lose our power."
The prince's marriage has not yet been decided. If Maichong's daughter is made the concubine, Jia Chong will not be able to leave without having to persuade her to stay.
Xun Xu and Feng You both said when the emperor was free that Maichong's daughter would have unparalleled beauty. If she married into the East Palace, she would be able to assist the prince and have the virtues of the concubine in "Guan Ju".
So they got married.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
当时甚为正直者所疾，而获佞媚之讥焉。
久之，进位光禄大夫。
既掌乐事，又修律吕，并行于世。
初，勖于路逢赵贾人牛铎，识其声。
及掌乐，音韵未调，乃曰： 得赵之牛铎则谐矣。
遂下郡国，悉送牛铎，果得谐者。
又尝在帝坐进饭，谓在坐人曰： 此是劳薪所炊。
咸未之信。
帝遣问膳夫，乃云： 实用故车脚。
举世伏其明识。
俄领秘书监，与中书令张华依刘向《别录》，整理记籍。
又立书博士，置弟子教习，以钟、胡为法。
咸宁初，与石苞等并为佐命功臣，列于铭飨。
及王浚表请伐吴，勖与贾充固谏不可，帝不从，而吴果灭。
以专典诏命，论功封子一人为亭侯，邑一千户，赐绢千匹。
又封孙显为颍阳亭侯。
及得汲郡冢中古文竹书，诏勖撰次之，以为《中经》，列在秘书。
时议遣王公之国，帝以问勖，勖对曰： 诸王公已为都督，而使之国，则废方任。
translation: 
At that time, he was very disgusted by honest people and was ridiculed as flattery.
After a long time, he was promoted to Doctor Guanglu.
After taking charge of rituals and music, he also revised the music rhythm, which became popular in the world.
At first, Gou Xu heard the cow bell from Merchant Zhao on the road. Memorized the sound.
When he was in charge of ritual music and the music was not harmonious, he said: "It will be harmonious if I get Zhao's cowbell."
So he ordered all counties and counties to send cow bells, and the music was indeed harmonious.
He once had a meal in front of the emperor's throne and said to the people present: "This meal is cooked with the feet of a cart."
Don't believe what he said.
The emperor sent a human chef, who replied: "It is indeed an old cart wheel."
Everyone admired his clarity.
Soon he also served as secretary-supervisor, and together with Zhongshu ordered Zhang Hua to compile bookkeeping classics according to Liu Xiang's "Bielu".
He also established a doctor of books and arranged for his disciples to teach and study, following the example of Zhong Yao and Hu Zhao.
In the early years of Xianning, he, together with Shi Bao and others, were among the auxiliary officials who carved stones.
When Wang Jun petitioned to attack Wu, Xunxu and Jia Chong resolutely dissuaded him, but the emperor did not listen, and the kingdom of Wu was indeed reduced.
Because Xun Xu was in charge of edicts, he made one of his sons the Marquis of Ting based on his merits, gave him a thousand households in the city, and granted him a thousand bolts of silk.
He also named his grandson Xunxian the Marquis of Yingyang Ting.
After obtaining the ancient asparagus script from Jijun's tomb, he issued an order to Xunxu to compile it as the "Zhongjing" and include it in the palace collection.
At that time, there was a discussion about sending princes to enfeoff the country. The emperor asked Xun Xu, and Xun Xu replied: All the princes are already governors, and if they are allowed to enfeoff the country, they will abandon the post of local governor.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
又分割郡县，人心恋本，必用嗷嗷。
国皆置军，官兵还当给国，而阙边守。
帝重使勖思之，勖又陈曰： 如诏准古方伯选才，使军国各随方面为都督，诚如明旨。
至于割正封疆。使亲疏不同诚为佳矣。
然分裂旧土，犹惧多所摇动，必使人心聪扰，思惟窃宜如前。
若于事不得不时有所转封，而不至分割土域，有所损夺者，可随宜节度。
其五等体国经远，实不成制度。
然但虚名，其于实事，略与旧郡县乡亭无异。
若造次改夺，恐不能不以为恨。
今方了其大者，以为五等可须后裁度。
凡事虽有久而益善者，若临时或有不解，亦不可忽。
帝以勖言为允，多从其意。
translation: 
Besides, when we divide counties and counties, if people are attached to the status quo, they will definitely make a voice of dissatisfaction.
The feudal states all set up armies and provided officers and soldiers to the feudal states, which greatly damaged the border defense.
The emperor asked Xunxu to reconsider the matter, and Xunxu further stated: The imperial edict explores the ancient princes' selection of talents, and assigns armies and feudal states to each locality as governor. This is indeed as stated in the edict of the Ming Dynasty.
As for dividing the feudal territory, it is indeed a good thing to make the relationship between kinship and alienation different in the territory.
However, dividing the old counties is still afraid of causing instability and will definitely make people panic. My opinion is still the same as before.
If it is necessary to transfer the seal at any time according to the actual situation without dividing the area, if there are changes, it can be scheduled on time.
Granting a country a title based on the fifth rank of nobility is actually not a system.
However, it is just a false name. In essence, it is roughly the same as the old county and township pavilions.
If you change it easily, you may regret it.
Now that major aspects have been customized, the fifth-class title can wait until later.
Although there are situations in which the longer you plan, the better. If you don’t understand something at the moment, you can’t ignore it.
The emperor believed that Xun Xu's words were correct and mostly followed his opinions.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
时又议省州郡县半吏以赴农功，勖议以为： 省吏不如省官，省官不如省事，省事不如清心。
昔萧曹相汉，载其清静，致画一之歌，此清心之本也。
汉文垂拱，几致刑措，此省事也。
光武并合吏员，县官国邑裁置十一，此省官也。
魏太和中，遣王人四出，减天下吏员，正始中亦并合郡县，此省吏也。
今必欲求之于本，则宜以省事为先。
凡居位者，使务思萧曹之心，以翼佐大化。
笃义行，崇敦睦，使昧宠忘本者不得容，而伪行自息，浮华者惧矣。
重敬让，尚止足，令贱不妨贵，少不陵长，远不间亲，新不间旧，小不加大，淫不破义，则上下相安，远近相信矣。
位不可以进趣得，誉不可以朋党求，则是非不妄而明，官人不惑于听矣。
translation: 
At that time, there was also discussion about reducing the number of officials in prefectures, counties, and counties to engage in agriculture. Xun Xu believed that provincial officials are not as good as provincial officials, provincial officials are not as good as saving trouble, and provincial officials are not as good as governing by doing nothing.
In the past, when Xiao He and Cao Shen were prime ministers, they ruled by doing nothing, and the people sang about their uniformity of laws. This is the foundation of a pure heart.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty ruled by doing nothing, almost putting punishments on hold, which made it easier to create.
Emperor Moguang Wu merged the officials, and the county officials and their cities were reduced by one-tenth, and Bo became the provincial official.
During the Taihe period of Wei, envoys were sent to various places to reduce the number of officials in the world. During the Zhengshi period, counties and counties were also merged to create provincial officials.
If we must solve it fundamentally, we should start by saving trouble.
Anyone who holds an official position must follow the example of Xiao He and Cao Shen to assist the country.
Practice benevolence and righteousness, value harmony, and make those who are greedy and forgetful of their roots not tolerated. Then the hypocritical behavior will naturally stop and the flashy people will feel fear.
Pay attention to respect and humility, advocate knowledge and contentment, let the humble do not harm the noble, the young do not bully the elders, stay away from relatives, the new do not separate from the old, the small do not overwhelm the big, extravagance does not violate justice, this will bring peace of mind to everyone, and trust from far and near.
Official positions cannot be obtained by clinging to others, and reputation cannot be obtained by relying on cliques. This is not clear-cut, and officials should not be deceived by sight and hearing.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
去奇技，抑异说，好变旧以徼非常之利者必加其诛，则官业有常，人心不迁矣。
事留则政稽，政稽则功废。
处位者而孜孜不怠，奉职司者而夙夜不懈，则虽在挈瓶而守不假器矣。
使信若金石，小失不害大政，忍忿悁以容之。
简文案，略细苛，令之所施，必使人易视听，愿之如阳春，畏之如雷震。
勿使微文烦挠，为百吏所黩，二三之命，为百姓所餍，则吏竭其诚，下悦上命矣。
设官分职，委事责成。
君子心竞而不力争，量能受任，思不出位，则官无异业，政典不奸矣。
凡此皆愚心谓省事之本也。
苟无此愆，虽不省吏，天下必谓之省矣。
若欲省官，私谓九寺可并于尚书，兰台宜省付三府。
然施行历代，世之所习，是以久抱愚怀而不敢言。
至于省事，实以为善。
若直作大例，皆减其半，恐文武众官郡国职业，及事之兴废，不得皆同。
凡发号施令，典而当则安，傥有驳者，或致壅否。
凡职所临履，先精其得失。
使忠信之官，明察之长，各裁其中，先条上言之。
然后混齐大体，详宜所省，则令下必行，不可摇动。
如其不尔，恐适惑人听，比前行所省，皆须臾辄复，或激而滋繁，亦不可不重。
translation: 
Abolish crooked ways, suppress heresies, and punish those who like to change the status quo to seek abnormal benefits. Official affairs will be stable and people's hearts will be stable.
Procrastination leads to stagnation, and stagnation leads to waste.
If a person in an official position works tirelessly, and if a person in a position works tirelessly day and night, he will be able to perform his duties carefully even if his official position is low.
Let the faith be as solid as gold and stone, make small mistakes not harm the big affairs, work hard and be tolerant without complaint.
Simplify official documents and omit trivial details, and the issued orders must be easy to understand. Looking forward to government orders is like looking forward to spring, and fearing government orders is like avoiding thunderstorms.
Don't let obscure words bother you and make you look down upon, and don't let capricious decrees make you hate the people. In this way, officials will be very loyal, and subordinates will be happy to accept orders from their superiors.
Set up officials to divide duties and responsibilities, and deliver tasks to be completed.
Gentlemen strive for victory instead of fighting with power, appoint officials based on ability, and do not think beyond their positions. In this way, officials will not do anything other than their duties, and the legal system will not be corrupted.
The above are all things I thought of to save trouble.
If it were not for the above mentioned, even if the number of officials is not reduced, the world will definitely think that the number has been reduced.
If you want to reduce the number of officials, I think the Jiu Temple can be merged with the Shangshu, and Lantai should be reduced to the three prefectures.
However, it has been practiced for several generations and people are used to it, so they have had this idea for a long time but dare not say it.
As for saving trouble, it’s actually a good thing.
If we only enact large-scale regulations and reduce everything by half, I am afraid that hundreds of civil and military officials, prefectures, and state services, as well as the ups and downs of affairs, will be reduced. It cannot be generalized.
Whenever orders are given, they are in compliance with the law and are fair. If they are disorganized, they will lead to obstruction.
Whatever is done within the scope of authority, the pros and cons must be carefully examined first.
Let the loyal and trustworthy officials, who are wise and discerning, decide which one to choose, and report it in separate sections first.
Then we will synthesize the opinions and list in detail the things that should be reduced. Then the orders will be implemented without wavering.
If not, it may confuse people's hearing and hearing. All the savings made before the assessment will be restored in a short period of time, which may make it more complicated and have to be restored.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
勖论议损益多此类。
太康中诏曰： 勖明哲聪达，经识天序，有佐命之功，兼博洽之才。
久典内任，著勋弘茂，询事考言，谋猷允诚。
宜登大位，毗赞朝政。
今以勖为光禄大夫、仪同三司、开府辟召，守中书监、侍中、侯如故。
时太尉贾充、司徒李胤并薨，太子太傅又缺，勖表陈： 三公保傅，宜得其人。
若使杨珧参辅东宫，必当仰称圣意。
尚书令卫瓘、吏部尚书山涛皆可为司徒。
若以瓘新为令未出者，涛即其人。
帝并从之。
明年秋，诸州郡大水，兗土尤甚。
勖陈宜立都水使者。
其后门下启通事令史伊羡、赵咸为舍人，对掌文法。
诏以问勖，勖曰：今天下幸赖陛下圣德，六合为一，望道化隆洽，垂之将来。
而门下上称程咸、张恽，下称此等，欲以文法为政，皆愚臣所未达者。
translation: 
Most of Xun Xu's discussions on pros and cons fall into this category.
The imperial edict during the Taikang period said: Gou Xu was wise and open-minded, understood the arrangements of heaven, had the merit of assisting the emperor, and was knowledgeable.
He has served in the government for a long time and has made outstanding achievements. He consults on matters and makes decisions, and plans fairness and integrity.
You should ascend to a high position and assist in government affairs.
Xunxu was appointed as the official of Guanglu, the third division of Yitong, the official in charge of opening the government office, the supervisor of the central secretary, the minister in charge, and the marquis still in charge.
At that time, both Taiwei Jia Chong and Situ Li Yin were dead, and the position of Prince Taifu was vacant. Xun Xu stated in the above table: There should be qualified candidates to protect Fu.
If Yang Yao is allowed to participate in assisting the prince, it will definitely satisfy the emperor's wishes.
Minister Ling Wei Cui and Minister Shantao of the Ministry of Civil Affairs could both be Situ.
If it is inconvenient for Wei Cui to serve as the new minister, Shan Tao can be appointed.
The emperor obeyed him.
In the autumn of the next year, floods occurred in various states and counties, especially in Yandi.
Xun Xu stated that the capital should be entrusted with water envoys.
After he was sent to the province, Shi Yixian and Zhao Xian were appointed as ministers to answer and control the legal provisions.
The edict asked Xun Xu about this matter, and Xun Xu said: Now the world is fortunate to rely on your majesty's holy virtue, and the world is unified. I hope that moral education will flourish and spread into the future.
The Menxia Province first praised Cheng Xian and Zhang Pang, and then called these people and wanted to enter politics based on documents and laws. This is something I don't understand.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
昔张释之谏汉文，谓兽圈啬夫不宜见用；邴吉住车，明调和阴阳之本。
此二人岂不知小吏之惠，诚重惜大化也。
昔魏武帝使中军司荀攸典刑狱，明帝时犹以付内常侍。
以臣所闻，明帝时唯有通事刘泰等官，不过与殿中同号耳。
又顷言论者皆云省官减事，而求益吏者相寻矣。
多云尚书郎太令史不亲文书，乃委付书令史及干，诚吏多则相倚也。
增置文法之职，适恐更耗扰台阁，臣窃谓不可。
时帝素知太子暗弱，恐后乱国，遣勖及和峤往观之。
勖还盛称太子之德，而峤云太子如初。于是天下贵峤而贱勖。
帝将废贾妃，勖与冯紞等谏请，故得不废。
时议以勖倾国害时，孙资、刘放之匹。
translation: 
Once upon a time, Zhang Shizhi advised Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty that stingy men in the animal enclosure should not be reused. Bing Ji stopped on the way and explained the foundation of harmonizing yin and yang.
Don't the two of them know how smart little officials are? They really value the cultivation of all things.
In the past, Emperor Wu of the Wei Dynasty assigned Xun You, the military chief of the Central Military Commission, to be in charge of criminal law. Emperor Ming still delegated this responsibility to the internal minister.
As far as I know, during the Ming Dynasty, there were only general officials such as Liu Tai, but they had the same title as those in the palace.
Besides, people who have been commenting recently have said that we should reduce the number of officials and reduce their affairs, but there are also continuous requests to increase the number of officials.
It is said that Shangshu Lang Tai Ling Shi does not personally manage the documents, but leaves it to Shu Ling Shi to handle it. This is really because there are too many officials and they rely on each other.
I am afraid that adding an official position in charge of legal provisions will annoy Taihe even more, and I don’t think it is feasible.
At that time, the emperor had long known that the prince was ignorant and weak, and he was afraid that he might cause chaos in the country in the future, so he sent Xunxu and Hejiao to observe the prince.
After Xun Xu came back, he praised the prince's character highly, but He Jiao said that the prince was the same as before, so the world respected He Wei and looked down on Xun Xu.
The emperor was about to abolish the imperial concubine, but Xun Xu, Feng Shou and others advised him, so the imperial concubine was not abolished.
The discussion at the time believed that Gou Xu was the same type of person as Sun Zi and Liu Fang because he overthrew the country and endangered current affairs.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
然性慎密，每有诏令大事，虽已宣布，然终不言，不欲使人知己豫闻也。
族弟良曾劝勖曰： 公大失物情，有所进益者自可语之，则怀恩多矣。
其婿武统亦说勖 宜有所营置，令有归戴者 。
勖并默然不应，退而语诸子曰： 人臣不密则失身，树私则背公，是大戒也。
汝等亦当宦达人间，宜识吾此意。
久之，以勖守尚书令。
勖久在中书，专管机事。
及失之，甚罔罔怅恨。
或有贺之者，勖曰： 夺我凤皇池，诸君贺我邪！
及在尚书，课试令史以下，核其才能，有暗于文法，不能决疑处事者，即时遣出。
帝尝谓曰： 魏武帝言 荀文若之进善，不进不止；荀公达之退恶，不退不休 。二令君之美，亦望于君也。
居职月余，以母忧上还印绶，帝不许。
遣常侍周恢喻旨，勖乃奉诏视职。
勖久管机密，有才思，探得人主微旨，不犯颜忤争，故得始终全其宠禄。
translation: 
However, Xun Xu had a meticulous temperament. Whenever there was an edict or important event, although it had been announced, he never mentioned it, not wanting others to know that he knew about it in advance.
Tao Liang, a brother of the same clan, once advised Gou Xu: You are too unkind. You can naturally tell others about your promotion, and then more people will be grateful.
His son-in-law Wu Tong also advised Xun Xu to make arrangements so that he would have people who would surrender and support him.
Xun Xu remained silent and did not answer. Afterwards, he said to his sons: Failure to keep secrets by an official is disloyal, and establishing a personal relationship will betray the public. This is a great commandment.
You will also be officials in the human world, so you should understand what I mean.
A long time later, Xunxu was appointed to keep the order of Shangshu.
Xun Xu has been in Zhongshu for a long time, specializing in important confidential matters.
When I lost my position as Zhongshu, I felt very sad and regretful.
Some people also congratulated Xun Xu, and Xun Xu said: You took away my Phoenix Pond, and you still congratulate me!
When they take office in the Shangshu Province, they examine and examine the officials below the rank of Lingshi to assess their abilities. If there are unclear legal provisions and cannot solve difficult problems, they will be sent away immediately.
The emperor once said to him: Emperor Wu of Wei said: If Xun Wen recommends capable people, he will not give up until the goal is achieved; Xun Gongda repels evil people and will not give up until the goal is achieved. The virtues of these two virtuous monarchs can also be seen in you.
After working for more than a month, the emperor did not allow it because his mother passed away and he handed it over to the seal.
He sent a regular servant to Zhou Hui to announce the decree, and Xun Xu was ordered to govern.
Xun Xu managed confidential affairs for a long time. He was talented and could guess the monarch's hidden thoughts and did not offend the monarch's disobedience. Therefore, he could always preserve his status and salary.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
太康十年卒，诏赠司徒，赐东园秘器、朝服一具、钱五十万、布百匹。
遣兼御史持节护丧，谥曰成。
勖有十子，其达者辑、籓、组。
辑嗣，官至卫尉。
卒，谥曰简。
子畯嗣。
卒，谥曰烈。
无嫡子，以弟息识为嗣。
辑子绰。
绰字彦舒，博学有才能，撰《晋后书》十五篇，传于世。
永嘉末，为司空从事中郎，没于石勒，为勒参军。
籓字大坚。
元康中，为黄门侍郎，受诏成父所治钟磬。
以从驾讨齐王冏勋，封西华县公。
累迁尚书令。
永嘉末，转司空，未拜而洛阳陷没，籓出奔密。
王浚承制，奉籓为留台太尉。
及愍帝为太子，委籓督摄远近。
建兴元年薨于开封，年六十九，因葬亡所。
谥曰成，追赠太保。
籓二子：邃、闿。
邃字道玄，解音乐，善谈论。
translation: 
When Taikang died in the tenth year of his life, Xia Shao gave Situ a posthumous gift of a noble coffin, a set of court clothes, five hundred thousand money, and one hundred pieces of cloth.
He sent a censor and censor to guard the funeral, and the title of Mi was established.
Xun Xu had ten sons, the most prominent of whom were Xun Ji, Xun Fan and Xun Zu.
Xun Ji succeeded him and became a Weiwei.
After his death, Mi was given the nickname Jian.
He was succeeded by his son Xun Jun.
After his death, Mi Hao was fierce.
There is no legitimate son, so the younger brother's son is left to be the heir.
Xun Ji also had a son, Xun Chuo.
Xun Chuo, also known as Yanshu, was a man of erudition and talent. He wrote fifteen chapters of "Book of the Empress of Jin", which have been passed down to the world.
In the last years of Yongjia, Sikong served as a lieutenant. He was captured by Shi Le and was appointed to join the army.
The word "瓓 mushroom" is Dajian.
During the Yuankang period, he served as the minister of Huangmen and accepted Zhong Qing's imperial edict to complete his father's research.
Because of his meritorious service in following the emperor's crusade against Qi King Sima Gang, he was named the Duke of Xihua County.
Gradually he was promoted to Shangshu Ling.
In the last years of Yongjia, he was transferred to Sikong. Before he took office, Luoyang fell and Xun Fan fled to Mi.
Wang Jun adhered to the decree and honored Xun Fan as the Taiwei who stayed in Taiwan.
Emperor Min became the crown prince and appointed Xun Fan to supervise officials near and far.
He died in Kaifeng in the first year of Jianxing at the age of sixty-nine, and was buried at the place where he died.
Mi's name was successful and he was given a posthumous gift to the Taibao.
Xun Fan had two sons: Xun Sui and Xun He.
Xun Sui, whose courtesy name was Daoxuan, knew music and was good at talking.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
弱冠辟赵王伦相国掾，迁太子洗马。
长沙王乂以为参军。
乂败，成都王为皇太弟，精选僚属，以邃为中舍人。
鄴城不守，随籓在密。
元帝召为丞相从事中郎，以道险不就。
愍帝就加左将军、陈留相。
父忧去职，服阕，袭封。
愍帝欲纳邃女，先征为散骑常侍。
邃惧西都危逼，故不应命，而东渡江，元帝以为军谘祭酒。
太兴初，拜侍中。
邃与刁协婚亲，时协执权，欲以邃为吏部尚书，邃深距之。
寻而王敦讨协，协党与并及于难，唯邃以疏协获免。
敦表为廷尉，以疾不拜。
迁太常，转尚书。
苏峻作乱，邃与王导、荀崧并侍天子于石头。
峻平后卒，赠金紫光禄大夫，谥曰靖。
子汪嗣。
闿字道明，亦有名称，京都为之语曰： 洛中英英荀道明。
大司马、齐王冏辟为掾。
冏败，暴尸已三日，莫敢收葬。
闿与冏故吏李述、嵇含等露板请葬，朝议听之，论者称焉。
为太傅主簿、中书郎。
与邃俱渡江，拜丞相军谘祭酒。
中兴建，迁右军将军，转少府。
translation: 
When he was about 20 years old, he was recruited as the state minister of King Sima Lun of Zhao and was promoted to Prince Xima.
Sima Yi, the king of Changsha, appointed him to join the army.
When Sima Yi failed, the King of Chengdu was the emperor's younger brother. He selected his staff and appointed Gou Sui as the Zhongsheren.
Yecheng was lost and he followed Xun Fan in Mi.
Emperor Yuan called him to serve as a lieutenant to the prime minister, but he did not take up the post because the journey was difficult and dangerous.
Emperor Min immediately named him General Zuo and Prime Minister Chen Liu.
After his father died, he resigned, the mourning was over, and he inherited the title.
Emperor Min wanted to marry Xun Sui's daughter, so he first recruited Gou Sui to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi.
Xun Sui was afraid of the danger in the western capital, so he refused to accept the appointment and crossed the Yangtze River eastward. Emperor Yuan appointed him to serve as a military counselor and to offer wine.
In the early years of Taixing, he became an official and paid homage to Shizhong.
Xun Sui and Diao Xie were related by marriage. Diao Xie was in power at that time and wanted Xun Sui to be the Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but Xun Sui firmly refused.
Soon Wang Tomb attacked Wang Tan, and all Wang Xie's comrades suffered. Only Baosui was spared because he was alienated from Diao Xie.
Wang Dun asked Xun Sui to be granted the title of Imperial Lieutenant, but Xun Sui refused because he was ill.
He was promoted to Taichang and transferred to Shangshu.
When Quduo caused chaos, Baosui, Wang Zun and Baosheng served the emperor together in Genxi.
Su Jun died after he was pacified, and he gave money to Dr. Ziguanglu, named Mi Jing.
His son Gou Wang succeeded him.
Kai, named Daoming, was also famous. Kyoto praised him and said: Xun Daoming is an elite among thieves.
Da Sima and Bianwang Sima both recruited him as subordinate officials.
Sima Tong failed and his body was exposed for three days, and no one dared to bury it.
Gou He and Sima Gang's former subordinates Li Shu and Ji Han publicly petitioned to be buried. The court agreed with them and those who commented on the matter praised them.
He was appointed as Taifu's Chief Secretary and Zhongshu Lang.
They all crossed Kenliao with Xunsui, and the officials paid homage to the prime minister and the army consulted and offered wine.
At the beginning of the ZTE, he was promoted to general of the right army and transferred to Shaofu.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
明帝尝从容问王暠曰： 二荀兄弟孰贤？
暠答以闿才明过邃。
帝以语庾亮，亮曰： 邃真粹之地，亦闿所不及。
由是议者莫能定其兄弟优劣。
历御史中丞、侍中、尚书，封射阳公。
太宁二年卒，追赠卫尉，谥曰定。
子达嗣。
组字大章。
弱冠，太尉王衍见而称之曰： 夷雅有才识。
初为司徒左西属，补太子舍人。
司徒王浑请为从事中郎，转左长史，历太子中庶子、荥阳太守。
赵王伦为相国，欲收大名，选海内德望之士，以江夏李重及组为左右长史，东平王堪沛国刘谟为左右司马。
伦篡，以组为侍中。
及长沙王乂败，惠帝遣组及散骑常侍闾丘冲诣成都王颖，慰劳其军。
帝西幸长安，以组为河南尹。
迁尚书，转卫尉，赐爵成阳县男，加散骑常侍、中书监。
translation: 
Emperor Ming once asked Wang Yan calmly: "Which of the two Dong Ya brothers is more worthy?"
Jie Yan replied that Bao Yi was more talented and clever than Xun Sui.
The emperor told Yu Liang what Bao said, and Zuo Bo said: Ying's profound innocence is unparalleled by Bao Zhou's.
Therefore, no one in the discussion could determine the merits of the two brothers.
He successively served as Yushi Zhongcheng, Shizhong and Shangshu, and was granted the title of Duke of Lao District.
You Ning passed away in the second year of his life, and was posthumously given the title of Weiwei, with the title of Mi Xuan.
His son Dong Da succeeded him.
Make up a big chapter.
When he was about twenty years old, Taiwei Wang Man saw him and praised him: "He is elegant and talented."
At first, he was appointed as Situ Zuoxi's subordinate, and then as Prince Sheren.
Situ's labor movement asked him to serve as Zhonglang, and then he was transferred to Zuo Changshi. He successively served as the prince's concubine and the prefect of Xingyang.
King Sima Lun of Zhao was the prime minister. He wanted to gain a good reputation and chose virtuous people in the country. He appointed Li Chong and Xun Zuo of Jiangxia as the left and right chief ministers, and Wang Kan of Dongping and Liu Mo of Pei as the right and left ministers.
Sima Lun usurped the throne and made Xun Zuo the minister.
When King Sima Yi of Changsha failed, Emperor Hui sent Xun Group and Sanqi Changshi Jianqiu to rush to King Sima Ying of Chengdu to comfort his army.
The emperor went west to Chang'an and appointed Xun Zu as Yin of Henan.
He was promoted to Shangshu, transferred to Weiwei, and given the title of Chengyang County Male.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
转司隶校尉，加特进、光禄大夫，常侍如故。
于时天下已乱，组兄弟贵盛，惧不容于世，虽居大官，并讽议而已。
永嘉末，复以组为侍中，领太子太保。
未拜，会刘曜、王弥逼洛阳，组与籓俱出奔。
怀帝蒙尘，司空王浚以组为司隶校尉。
组与籓移檄天下，以琅邪王为盟主。
愍帝称皇太子，组即太子之舅，又领司隶校尉，行豫州刺史事，与籓并保荥阳之开封。
建兴初，诏籓行留台事。
俄而籓薨，帝更以组为司空，领尚书左仆射，又兼司隶，复行留台事，州征郡守皆承制行焉。
进封临颍县公，加太夫人、世子印绶。
明年，进位太尉，领豫州牧、假节。
元帝承制，以组都督司州诸军，加散骑常侍，余如故。
顷之，又除尚书令，表让不拜。
及西都不守，组乃遣使移檄天下共劝进。
帝欲以组为司徒，以问太常贺循。
循曰： 组旧望清重，忠勤显著，迁训五品，实允众望。
于是拜组为司徒。
组逼于石勒，不能自立。
太兴初，自许昌率其属数百人渡江，给千兵百骑，组先所领仍皆统摄。
顷之，诏组与太保、西阳王羕并录尚书事，各加班剑六十人。
永昌初，迁太尉，领太子太保。
未拜，薨，年六十五。
谥曰元。
子奕嗣。
奕字玄欣。
少拜太子舍人、驸马都尉，侍讲东宫。
出为镇东参军，行扬武将军、新汲令。
愍帝为皇太子，召为中舍人，寻拜散骑侍郎，皆不就。
随父渡江。
元帝践阼，拜中庶子，迁给事黄门郎。
父忧去职，服阕，补散骑常侍、侍中。
translation: 
He was transferred to the post of Sili Xiaowei, Jia Tejin and Guanglu doctor, and his regular attendants remained.
At that time, the world was in chaos, and the Xunzu brothers were prosperous and powerful. They were afraid that they would not be allowed to do so, so even though they were high-ranking officials, they only gave advice and discussions.
In the last years of Yongjia's reign, he took the group as a servant and also as the crown prince's Taibao.
Before he took office, it happened that Liu Yao and Wang Mi were approaching Luoyang, and they both fled.
When Emperor Huai was in trouble, Sikong Wang Jun made the group the Sili Xiaowei.
The group and Hui moved to send a message, with King Langxie as the leader of the alliance.
When Emperor Min became the crown prince, Xun Zu was the prince's uncle. He also served as Sili Xiaowei, served as governor of Yuzhou, and worked with Xun Fan to defend Kaifeng in Rongyang County.
In the early years of Jianxing, Xun Fan was appointed to stay in Taiwan.
Soon after Xun Fan died, the emperor again appointed Xun Zu as Sikong, leading Shangshu Zuopushe, and serving as Sili, and was responsible for the affairs of Liutai. He acted according to the orders of the conquests and guards of the prefectures and counties.
He was granted the title of Duke of Linying County, and was awarded the seal ribbon to his wife and prince.
In the second year, he was promoted to Taiwei, and concurrently served as the shepherd and holiday official of Yuzhou.
In accordance with his decree, Emperor Yuan appointed Xun as the commander-in-chief of the Sizhou armies, as well as casual cavalry and regular attendants. Other positions remained the same.
Soon, he was appointed Shangshu Ling, but he resigned and refused to take office.
When the Western Capital was lost, Xunzu sent envoys to spread messages across the country to persuade the Yuan Emperor to ascend the throne.
The emperor wanted to appoint Xun Zu as Situ and asked Taichang He Xun about this matter.
He Xun said: Xun Zu was famous for his loyalty and outstanding achievements. His promotion to the position of teaching the Five Permanent Leaders was really expected by everyone.
So he appointed Xunzu as Situ.
Xun Zu was forced by Shi Le and could not stand on his own.
In the early years of Taixing, he led hundreds of his subordinates from Xuchang across the river and gave him thousands of soldiers and hundreds of horses. All the people previously led by Xun Zu were still under his control.
Soon, the imperial edict ordered Xunzu and Sima Lai, King of Xiyang, to serve as Green Ministers, each with sixty sword guards.
In the early years of Yongchang, he was promoted to Taiwei and served as the crown prince's Taibao.
He died before taking office at the age of sixty-five.
Mi Hao Yuan.
He was succeeded by his son Xun Yi.
Xun Yi's courtesy name is Xuan Xin.
When he was young, he worshiped Prince Sheren and Prince Consort Duwei, and served as lecturer in the East Palace.
He took up the post of Zhenshu and joined the army, and became a general in military affairs and a new commander.
When Emperor Min became the crown prince, he called him a minister of Zhongshe, and soon he was appointed as a minister of Sanqi, but he did not take up the post.
Cross the river with his father.
Emperor Yuan ascended the throne, became his concubine, and was promoted to Shi Huang Menlang.
He left his post due to his father's funeral. After the mourning was completed, he was appointed as the regular attendant and attendant of the Sanqi.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
时将缮宫城，尚书符下陈留王，使出城夫。奕驳曰： 昔虞宾在位，《书》称其美；《诗》咏《有客》，载在《雅》《颂》。
今陈留王位在三公之上，坐在太子右，故答表曰书，赐物曰与。
此古今之所崇，体国之高义也。
谓宜除夫役。
时尚书张闿、仆射孔愉难奕，以为： 昔宋不城周，《阳秋》所讥。
特蠲非体，宜应减夫。
奕重驳，以为： 《阳秋》之末，文武之道将坠于地，新有子朝之乱，于时诸侯逋替，莫肯率职。
宋之于周，实有列国之权。
且同巳勤王而主之者晋，客而辞役，责之可也。
今之陈留，无列国之势，此之作否，何益有无！
臣以为宜除，于国职为全。
诏从之。
时又通议元会日帝应敬司徒王导不。
translation: 
At that time, the palace city was about to be repaired, and the minister issued a talisman to King Chenliu to help him repair the city. Xun Yi retorted: In the past, Prime Minister Yu gave up his throne.
Nowadays, King Chenliu's status is above the Three Dukes, and his rank is higher than that of the prince. Therefore, the reply form is called a letter, and the reward items are called a and.
This is what has been advocated in ancient and modern times, and is the principle of governing the country.
I think labor should be eliminated.
At that time, Zhang He and Pushe Kong Yu refuted Xun Yi, saying: In the past, the Song Dynasty did not build cities for the Zhou Dynasty, which was ridiculed by the Spring and Autumn Annals.
Exemption from labor is inconsistent with the system and can reduce the number of laborers.
Gou Yi retorted again, thinking: At the end of the Spring and Autumn Period, the moral integrity of King Wen and King Wu was about to be corrupted, and there was also rebellion in the Zi Dynasty. At that time, the princes were fighting in chaos, and no one was willing to abide by their duties.
For Zhou, the Song Dynasty actually had the power of other countries.
Moreover, the Song Dynasty followed the Jin Dynasty under King Qin and made Jin the leader of the alliance. It was okay to criticize the Song Dynasty and refuse to work as a guest.
Today's King Chenliu does not have the power of other countries, so what is the benefit of asking him to send laborers?
I think it should be exempted, which would be perfect for state power.
Shaoshu obeyed him.
At that time, they discussed together whether the emperor should pay respect to Situ Wangdao on the day of the New Year's Day meeting.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
博士郭熙、杜援等以为礼无拜臣之文，谓宜除敬。
侍中冯怀议曰： 天子修礼，莫盛于辟雍。
当尔之日，犹拜三老，况今先帝师傅。
谓宜尽敬。
事下门下，奕议曰： 三朝之首，宜明君臣之体，则不应敬。
若他日小会，自可尽礼。
又至尊与公书手诏则曰 顿首言 ，中书为诏则云 敬问 ，散骑优册则曰： 制命 。今诏文尚异，况大会之与小会，理岂得同！
诏从之。
咸和七年卒，追赠太仆，谥曰定。
冯紞，字少胄，安平人也。
祖浮，魏司隶校尉。
父员，汲郡太守。
紞少博涉经史，识悟机辩。
历仕为魏郡太守，转步兵校尉，徙越骑。
得幸于武帝，稍迁左卫将军。
translation: 
Doctors Guo Xi, Du Yuan and others believed that there was no record of emperors paying homage to their ministers in the etiquette, and they said that salutes should be exempted.
Feng Huai, the attendant, commented: "The Emperor establishes etiquette, and there is no grander etiquette than the founding etiquette of a school."
On that day, I have to pay homage to the three elders, not to mention the late emperor’s master.
I think it should be done with the utmost respect.
When the matter was handed over to the provincial government, Xun Yi discussed: "The court meeting on New Year's Day should clarify the etiquette of the emperor and his ministers, so the emperor should not respect his ministers."
If it is a court meeting on other days, you can naturally be polite.
In addition, when the emperor gave the edict to the Duke, he said "pause and say something", the edict in Zhongshu said "respectfully ask", and when the Sanqi was registered, he said "command the order". Nowadays, there are differences in the writing of edicts, not to mention that how can a large court meeting and a small court meeting be the same?
Xia Shao obeyed him.
When Xianhe died in the seventh year, he was given a posthumous gift to the imperial servant, and his name was Mi.
Feng Squid, courtesy name Shaozhou, was born in Anping.
His grandfather, Feng Fu, was the school captain of Wei Sili.
His father, Feng Yuan, was the prefect of Ji County.
Feng You read a lot of classics and history books when he was young, and he was smart and eloquent.
He successively served as the prefect of Wei County, transferred to the infantry school captain, and was transferred to Yueqi.
He was highly regarded by Emperor Wu and was soon promoted to General Zuowei.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
承颜悦色，宠爱日隆。贾充、荀勖并与之亲善。
充女之为皇太子妃也，紞有力焉。
及妃之将废，紞、勖干没救请，故得不废。
伐吴之役，紞领汝南太守，以郡兵随王浚入秣陵。
迁御史中丞，转侍中。
帝病笃得愈，紞与勖见朝野之望，属在齐王攸。攸素薄勖。
勖以太子愚劣，恐攸得立，有害于己，乃使紞言于帝曰： 陛下前者疾若不差，太子其废矣。
齐王为百姓所归，公卿所仰，虽欲高让，其得免乎！
宜遣还籓，以安社稷。
帝纳之。
及攸薨，朝野悲恨。
初，帝友于之情甚笃，既纳紞、勖邪说，遂为身后之虑，以固储位。
既闻攸殒，哀恸特深。
紞侍立，因言曰： 齐王名过于实，今得自终，此乃大晋之福。
陛下何乃过哀！
帝收泪而止。
translation: 
He was able to please the emperor obediently and favored him greatly. Both Jia Chong and Xun Xu were friendly to him.
Jia Chong's daughter became the dowager, and Feng Shou helped in this matter.
When Concubine Jia was about to be deposed, Feng Shou and Xun Xu tried their best to save her, so she was not deposed.
During the battle against Wu, Feng You, who was also the prefect of Runan, led the county soldiers to follow Wang Jun into Moling.
He was promoted to censor Zhongcheng and transferred to Shizhong.
After the emperor recovered from a serious illness, Feng You and Xun Xu's desire to see each other inside and outside the court rested on Qi King Sima You. Sima You had always looked down on Xun Xu.
Because the prince was stupid, Xun Xu was afraid that Sima You would succeed to the throne, which would be harmful to him, so he asked Feng Shou to tell the emperor: If your majesty has not recovered from his illness some time ago, the prince may be deposed.
King Cha is the one whom the people turn to and whom the ministers look up to. Even if he is of high moral character and wants to give way, can he be spared?
He should be sent back to the feudal state to stabilize the country.
The emperor accepted his words.
When Sima You died, there was sadness and resentment inside and outside the court.
At first, the emperor's brotherly love was very deep. After adopting the heresies of Feng Shou and Gou Xu, he began to worry about what would happen after his death in order to stabilize the status of the crown prince.
After hearing the news of Sima You's death, my grief was particularly deep.
Feng Shou stood nearby and said, "The King of Qi has lived up to his reputation, and now he dies. This is the blessing of the Jin Dynasty."
Why should Your Majesty be overly sad!
The emperor no longer cried.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
初谋伐吴，紞与贾充、荀勖同共苦谏不可。
吴平，紞内怀惭惧，疾张华如雠。
及华外镇，威德大著，朝论当征为尚书令。
紞从容侍帝，论晋魏故事，因讽帝，言华不可授以重任，帝默然而止。
事具《华传》。
太康七年，紞疾，诏以紞为散骑常侍，赐钱二十万、床帐一具。
寻卒。
二子：播、熊。
播，大长秋。
熊字文罴，中书郎。
紞兄恢，自有传。
史臣曰：夫立身之道，曰仁与义。
动静既形，悔吝斯及。
有莘之媵，殊《北门》之情；渭滨之叟，匪西山之节。
汤武有以济其功，夏殷不能讥其志。
王沈才经文武，早尸人爵，在魏参席上之珍，居晋为幄中之士，桐宫之谋遽泄，武闱之祸遂臻。
是知田光之口，岂燕丹之可绝；豫让之形，非智氏之能变。
动静之际，有据蒺藜，仁义之方，求之弥远矣。
translation: 
At first, he planned to attack Wu. Feng You, Maichong and Xun Xu jointly tried their best to persuade him that it would not work.
After Wu was put down, Feng You felt ashamed and fearful, and hated Zhang Hua as his enemy.
After Zhang Hua came out to guard the capital, his prestige was remarkable, and the court's discussion believed that he should be appointed Shangshu Ling.
Feng You calmly served the emperor, discussed the history of Jin and Wei, and took advantage of the situation to persuade the emperor, saying that he could not entrust Zhang Hua with important tasks. The emperor did not say anything and no longer appointed him.
The details of the incident are recorded in the book "Zhang Hua Biography".
In the seventh year of Taikang's reign, Feng You fell ill and issued an edict to appoint him as a regular servant of Sanqi. He was given 200,000 yuan and a set of bed tents.
Died soon.
He has two sons: Feng Bo and Feng Xiong.
Feng Bo, Ren Da Changqiu.
Feng Xiong, whose courtesy name was Wen Xiong, was appointed Zhongshu Lang.
Feng Hui, Feng Squid's elder brother, is also told in this book.
Shi Chen said: The so-called way of establishing oneself is benevolence and righteousness.
Once a person's deeds are done, regret will follow.
The concubines with Xin are different from the sentiments shown in "North Gate"; the old people on the shore of the Wei River do not have the integrity shown by Boyi and Shuqi in the Western Mountains.
Tang and Wu were able to complete their achievements, but Xia and Yin could not ridicule their ambitions.
Wang Chen was talented in both civil and military affairs, and had long been given a title. He enjoyed the delicacies at banquets in Wei, and served as an adviser to the court in Jin. The plan of Gaogui Township Duke to attack Emperor Wen was suddenly leaked, and the disaster of Wu Wei followed.
From this, we know that Tian Guang’s mouth can’t be stopped by Yan Dan? Yu Rang’s actions cannot be changed by Zhi Bo.
Between movement and stillness, it is like grasping this thorn, the way of benevolence and righteousness, pursuing it makes it farther away.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
彭祖谒由捧雉，孕本贸丝，因家乏主，遂登显秩。
拥北州之士马，偶东京之糜沸，自可感召诸侯，宣力王室。
而乘间伺隙，潜图不轨，放肆獯虏，迁播乘舆。
遂使漳滏萧然，黎元涂地。
纵贪夫于藏户，戮高士于燕垂，阻越石之内难，邀世龙之外府。
恶稔毒，坐致焚燎，假手仇敌，方申凶犷，庆封之戮，慢骂何补哉！
公曾，慈明之孙；景倩，文若之子，践隆堂而高视，齐逸轨而长骛。
孝敬足以承亲，周慎足以事主，刊姬公之旧典，采萧相之遗法。
然而援硃均以贰极，煽褒阎而偶震。
虽废兴有在，隆替靡常，稽之人事，乃二荀之力也。
至于斗粟兴谣，逾里成咏，勖之阶祸，又已甚焉。
冯紞外骋戚施，内穷狙诈，毙攸安贾，交勖仇张，心滔楚费，过逾晋伍。
translation: 
Peng Zu's biological mother was of low status, and the woman who gave birth to him was a poor woman from a good family. Because the royal family lacked an heir, Peng Zu ascended to a prominent official position.
With the soldiers and horses of Beizhou, during the rebellion in Tokyo, he could have inspired the princes to serve the royal family.
However, he took advantage of the occasion of vendetta. He secretly plotted to cause chaos, indulged the barbarians and Di, and fought everywhere.
This made Zhang and Fu depressed and the people suffered.
He used the treasury to indulge greedy people and killed knowledgeable people in northern Xinjiang. Liu Kun was prevented from launching an attack, but Shi Le was lured to the outer palace.
It accumulates poison and causes diseases, causing disasters. In the hands of false enemies, they display ferocity and Qingfeng is killed. What's the use of cursing!
Gong Zeng is the grandson of Ci Ming; Jing Qian is the son of Wen Ruo. They ascend to the high hall with high eyes and follow the laws of the sages.
Filial piety is enough to flatter relatives, prudence is enough to serve the monarch, revise Ji Gong's old code, and adopt Xiao Xiang's dispatching method.
However, quoting Zhu Jun created two poles, with Bao Si gaining power and King You in danger.
Although rise and fall exist objectively, and the replacement of emperors is irregular, from a personnel perspective, it is the credit of the two surnamed Xun.
As for the rumors of brotherly discord and the rise of satire beyond his position, the disaster caused by Xun Xu was too serious.
Feng You deliberately flattered and used all his cunning, which led to the death of King Sima You of Qi, and confirmed the position of concubine Jia. He made friends with Xun Xu and hated Zhang Hua. He was more scheming than Chu Fei and surpassed the Jin army.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
爰丝献寿，空取慰于仁心，紞之陈说，幸收哀于迷虑，投畀之罚无闻，《青蝇》之诗不作矣。
赞曰：处道文林，胡贰尔心？
彭祖凶孽，自贻伊戚。
临淮翼翼，孝形于色。
安阳英英，匪懈其职。
倾齐附鲁，是为蝥贼。
紞之不臧，交乱罔极。
translation: 
Offering longevity with a silken silk is in vain to gain comfort from benevolence. Feng Squid's rhetoric fortunately made the emperor stop his sorrow in his confusion and worry. The penalty of feeding flatterers to jackals has disappeared, and poems like "Blue Fly" are no longer written.
Praising: Wang Chen has literary talent, why does he have second thoughts about his master?
Wang Jun was violent and brought disaster upon himself.
Xun Pin, the Marquis of Linhuai, was respectful and showed his filial piety.
Xun Xu, the Marquis of Anyang, was talented and never slacked off in his duties.
Qing Qi Yilu is a rebellious minister and traitor.
Feng Squid is not good, and the civil strife is endless.


