Chunk 0: 
original: 
主人喟然而叹曰 痛乎风俗之移人也。
子实秦人，矜夸馆室，保界河山，信识昭、襄而知始皇矣，恶睹大汉之云为乎。
夫大汉之开原也，奋布衣以登皇极，繇数期而创万世，盖六籍所不能谈，前圣靡得而言焉。
当此之时，功有横而当天，讨有逆而顺人，故娄敬度势而献其说，萧公权宜以拓其制。时岂泰而安之哉。计不得以已也。吾子曾不是睹，顾燿后嗣之末造，不亦暗乎。今将语子以建武之理，永平之事，监乎太清，以变子之或志。
往者王莽作逆，汉祚中缺，天人致诛，六合相灭。
于时之乱，生民几亡，鬼神泯绝，壑无完柩，郛罔遗室，原野厌人之肉，川谷流人之血，秦、项之灾犹不克半，书契已来未之或纪也。故下民号而上诉，上帝怀而降鉴，致命于圣皇。
translation: 
◆Ban Gu's biography, Ban Gu's courtesy name is Meng Jian. When he was nine years old, he could compose sentences and recite poems. When he grew up, he was familiar with classics and all the opinions of hundreds of schools of thought were discussed in depth.
He has no fixed teacher and does not work on the chapters and sentences, but only grasps the general principles. He has a generous and kind personality, is compatible with everyone, and does not think he is superior to others just because he is talented. Some Confucian scholars envy him for this.
In the early years of Yongping, King Cang of Dongping used his relatives to assist the Hussar General, opened the East Pavilion, and admitted the heroes. At this time, Ban Gu was only twenty years old. The former Duke of Zhou and the current generals, as recorded in "Poems" and "Books", are not like you three.
Ancient books say: There must be extraordinary people, and then there will be extraordinary things; there must be extraordinary things, and then there will be extraordinary achievements. Ban Gu was fortunate to be born in the Qingming era, and was at the end of his participation in the audio-visual world. With his smallness as a mole cricket, he privately viewed the greatness of the country's affairs. He really praised the general for having a thousand-year important responsibility, following the footsteps of the ancestors, and embodying the beautiful qualifications. Based on his high-level position, he widely picked up all kinds of things, followed the Six Classics, if white and black are different from each other, there is no end to the pursuit of goodness, he adopts the words of a madman, and does not go against the opinions of a salaryman.
I saw privately that the shogunate was newly opened, with handsome men and women from all over the country. They came forward enthusiastically, regardless of their clothes being turned upside down.
The general should carefully study the actions of Tang and Shang, and observe the recommendations of Yi Yin and Gaotao, so that there is no partiality from far and near, and talents in every corner can know. The purpose is to have an overview of talents, collect wise people, find capable people for the country, and bring peace to the dynasty.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
于是圣皇乃握乾符，阐坤珍，披皇图，稽帝文，赫尔发愤，应若兴云，霆发昆阳，凭怒雷震。遂超大河，跨北岳，立号高邑，建都河洛。
绍百王之荒屯，因造化之荡涤，体元立制，继天而作。系唐统，接汉绪，茂育群生，恢复疆宇，勋兼乎在昔，事勤乎三五。
岂特方轨并迹，纷纷后辟，理近古之所务，蹈一圣之险易云尔哉。
且夫建武之元，天地革命，四海之内，更造夫妇，肇有父子，君臣初建，人伦实始，斯乃虙羲氏之所以基皇德也。
分州土，立市朝，作舟车，造器械，斯轩辕氏之所以开帝功也。
龚行天罚，应天顺人，斯乃汤、武之所以昭王业也。迁都改邑，有殷宗中兴之则焉。
即土之中，有周成隆平之制焉。
不阶尺土一人之柄，同符乎高祖。
克己复礼，以奉终始，允恭乎孝文。
宪章稽古，封岱勒成，仪炳乎世宗。
案《六经》而校德，妙古昔而论功，仁圣之事既该，帝王之道备矣。
translation: 
Then the general will cultivate his ambition and spirit, travel in temples, spread his fame to the present, and leave his legacy to the endless generations. I saw that the old minister had long been known as a Confucian scholar. His moral character was the highest in the state. He followed his heart at the age of seventy and did not violate the rules. He was the glory of the Qing temple and a contemporary talent.
Jingzhao offered wine to Jin Feng. He cultivated his moral character at a young age. Even when his hair turned gray, he still kept his original intention. He loved ancient music and Taoism, and was silent and self-sufficient. The beautiful qualities of the ancients cannot be matched by contemporary people. Fufeng rafter Li Yu, Ming Dynasty scriptures, good conduct, taught hundreds of people, lived in Duling, in a thatched house with earthen steps.
Jingzhao and Fufeng counties both invited him, but because his family was poor, he resigned several times due to illness. Review the past and learn the new, be clear-headed in discussion, honest and upright in cultivation, and perfect in conduct. Although he was famous as a Confucian in his previous life, he was highly regarded by the country, Wei, Ping, Kong, and Zhai, and there is no better one.
Respondents evaluate performance and participate in everything. Guo Ji, the governor of Jingzhao, was well-known in the state for his filial piety. His Confucian studies were praised by his disciples, and his achievements in government affairs had special effects.
If you encounter the Ming Dynasty and work under the subordinates, you can advance like a bird and fly high, and retreat like Qiliang and die for your country.
Wang Yong, who was engaged in Jingzhou, had Bian Yan's integrity, coupled with his artistic writings, there was no leading figure in Jingzhou before Wang Yong. In ancient times, when the Duke of Zhou promoted the talents of one party, the other three parties complained, saying, "Why did you put me behind?"
The door of the house should be opened in time so that people far away can be comforted.
Yin Su, the envoy of Hongnong Gongcao, was well-educated, knowledgeable and talented. He could recite three hundred poems and could receive foreign guests.
These six people all have special character and talents, and their moral character is higher than that of the world. If they are accepted, they can assist Gao Ming. This is what Confucius sighed in the autumn of the mountains!
In the past, Bian He offered treasures and had his toes amputated, and Qu Yuan offered loyal advice and finally sank to Miluo. However, He's jade has retained its glory for thousands of years, and Qu Zi's legacy has been praised forever.
I hope that the general will be aware of everything, broaden his horizons, be less humble, and listen more to subordinates, so that there will never be any regrets from Jingshan and Miluo in the dust.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
至于永平之际，重熙而累洽，盛三雍之上仪，修衮龙之法服，敷洪藻，信景铄，扬世庙，正矛乐。
人神之和允洽，君臣之序既肃。
乃动大路，遵皇衢，省方巡狩，穷览万国之有无，考声教之所被，散皇明以烛幽。
然后增周旧，修洛邑，翩翩巍巍，显显翼翼，光汉京于诸夏，总八方而为之极。
是时，圣上固已垂精游神，包举艺文，屡访群儒，谕咨做老，与之乎斟酌道德之渊源，肴核仁义之林薮，以望元符之臻焉。
既成群后之谠辞，又悉经五繇之硕虑矣。
将絣万嗣，炀洪晖，奋景炎，扇遗风，播芳烈，久而愈新，用而不竭，汪汪乎丕天之大律，其畴能亘之哉。
唐哉皇哉，皇哉唐哉。
固后以母丧去官。
translation: 
Wang Cang of Dongping adopted Ban Gu's opinion.
His father Ban Biao died and returned to his hometown. Ban Gu thought that the history written by Ban Biao was not detailed enough, so he studied in depth and wanted to complete his father's legacy.
Soon someone wrote a letter to Xian Zong, accusing Ban Gu of secretly changing the history of the country. The imperial court sent an edict to the county, imprisoned Ban Gu in Jingzhao Prison, and confiscated all his books.
First, Su Lang, a man from Fufeng, made false predictions and was imprisoned and died.
Ban Chao, Ban Gu's younger brother, was afraid that Ban Gu would be examined by the county and would not be able to distinguish right from wrong, so he went to the court and was summoned by the emperor to tell all the original meaning of Ban Gu's writings. Later, he was promoted to Lang and secretary of the school.
Ban Gu also wrote about the deeds of heroes, Ping Lin, Xinshi, Gongsun Shu and others, and wrote 28 biographies and records, which were reported to the emperor. The emperor also asked him to complete the history book he had written before.
Ban Gu believed that the Han Dynasty inherited the fate of Tang Yao and established the emperor's empire. As for the Six Dynasties, historians traced the merits and deeds, and privately wrote this chronicle, which was compiled at the end of the Hundred Kings and included in the Qin and Han Dynasties. After the beginning of the Tai Dynasty, it was missing and not recorded, so he explored the previous records, compiled what he heard, and wrote the "Book of Han". From the time of Emperor Gaozu to the death of Wang Mang of Xiaoping, there were ten or two generations, a total of two hundred and thirty years. Their actions were combined with the "Five Classics" and linked up and down, and a total of one hundred chapters of records, records, records and biographies were written in "Spring and Autumn".
Ban Gu began to receive the imperial edict in his middle age in Yongping. He racked his brains and pondered for more than 20 years before writing it in the early years of Jianchu.
Contemporary people attach great importance to his books, and there are many scholars who do not read them. Ban Gu later left his official position due to his mother's death.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
永元初，大将军窦宪出征匈奴，以固为中护军，与参议。
北单于闻汉军出，遣使款居延塞，欲修呼韩邪故事，朝见天子，请大使。
宪上遣固行中郎将事，将数百骑与虏使俱出居延塞迎之。
会南匈奴掩破北庭，固至私渠海，闻虏中乱，引还。
及窦宪败，固先坐免官。
固不教学诸子，诸子多不遵法度，吏人苦之。
初，洛阳令种兢尝行，固奴干其车骑，吏椎呼之，奴醉骂，兢大怒，畏宪不敢发，心衔之。
及窦氏宾客皆逮考，兢因此捕系固，遂死狱中。
时年六十一。
诏以谴责兢，抵主者吏罪。
固所著《典引》、《宾戏》、《应讥》、诗、赋、铭、诔、颂、书、文、记、论、议、六言，在者凡四十一篇。
translation: 
In the early years of Yongyuan, General Dou Xian went out to conquer the Xiongnu, using Ban Gu as the central guard and counselor.
When Beidan heard that the Han army was coming out, he sent an envoy to Juyansai. He wanted to continue the Huhanxie story and meet with the emperor, so he asked for an envoy.
Dou Xian sent a letter to General Ban Guxing Zhonglang, leading hundreds of cavalry and captive envoys to come out from Juyan fortress to greet them.
Just as the Huns from the south were covering up the Beiting, Ban Gu arrived at Sequhai. When he heard about the chaos among the captives, he led his troops back.
When Dou Xian failed, Ban Gu was dismissed first.
Ban Gu did not educate his sons. Most of his sons did not abide by the laws, which made the officials very troubled.
At first, Luoyang ordered Zhong Jing to go out for inspection. Ban Gu's domestic slaves interfered with his riding, and the officials scolded him. The slaves cursed others when they were drunk. Zhong Jing was furious, afraid of Dou Xian and did not dare to vent, and he held a grudge in his heart.
When Dou's guests were all arrested and interrogated, Zhong Jing arrested Ban Gu and died in prison.
He was sixty-one years old.
The imperial court issued an edict condemning Zhong Jing and those who resisted the master as officials.
Ban Gu wrote "Dian Yin", "Bin Xi", "Ying Ji", poems, rhymes, inscriptions, edicts, odes, books, articles, notes, treatises, discussions and six words. There are a total of forty-one words in existence.


