Chunk 0: 
original: 
范岫，字懋宾，济阳考城人也。
高祖宣，晋征士。
父羲，宋兗州别驾。
岫早孤，事母以孝闻，与吴兴沈约俱为蔡兴宗所礼。
泰始中，起家奉朝请。
兴宗为安西将军，引为主簿。
累迁临海、长城二县令，骠骑参军，尚书删定郎，护军司马，齐司徒竟陵王子良记室参军。
累迁太子家令。
文惠太子之在东宫，沈约之徒以文才见引，岫亦预焉。
岫文虽不逮约，而名行为时辈所与，博涉多通，尤悉魏晋以来吉凶故事。
约常称曰： 范公好事该博，胡广无以加。
南乡范云谓人曰： 诸君进止威仪，当问范长头。
以岫多识前代旧事也。
迁国子博士。
永明中，魏使至，有诏妙选朝士有词辩者，接使于界首，以岫兼淮阴长史迎焉。
还迁尚书左丞，母忧去官，寻起摄职。
出为宁朔将军、南蛮长史、南义阳太守，未赴职，迁右军谘议参军，郡如故。
除抚军司马。
出为建威将军、安成内史。
入为给事黄门侍郎，迁御史中丞、领前军将军、南、北兗二州大中正。
永元末，出为辅国将军、冠军晋安王长史，行南徐州事。
义师平京邑，承制征为尚书吏部郎，参大选。
梁台建，为度支尚书。
天监五年，迁散骑常侍、光禄大夫，侍皇太子，给扶。
六年，领太子左卫率。
七年，徙通直散骑常侍、右卫将军，中正如故。
其年表致事，诏不许。
八年，出为晋陵太守，秩中二千石。
九年，入为祠部尚书，领右骁骑将军，其年迁金紫光禄大夫，加亲信二十人。
十三年，卒官，时年七十五。
translation: 
Fan Xiu, courtesy name Maobin, was a native of Kaocheng, Jiyang.
The great ancestor Fan Xuan was a hermit in Jinzheng.
His father, Fan Xi, served as a chariot in Yanzhou during the Song Dynasty.
Fan Xiu lost his father in his early years and was famous for his filial piety in serving his mother. Both Shen Yue and Shen Yue from Wuxing were respected by Cai Xingzong.
During the Taishi period, he served as an official at the invitation of the court.
Xingzong served as the general of Anxi and was appointed as the chief administrator.
He was repeatedly promoted to the county magistrate of Linhai and Changcheng. He joined the army as a hussar, was appointed as a minister of the Shangshu, and a Sima of the army guard. In the Qi Dynasty, Situ Jingling and Wang Ziliang's record office joined the army.
He was promoted to the prince's family many times.
When Prince Wenhui was in the East Palace, Shen Yue's disciples were recruited for their literary talents, and Fan Xiu was among them.
Although Fan Xiu's literary talent was not as good as Shen Yue's, his reputation and conduct were praised by famous figures at that time. He had extensive knowledge and knowledge of many things, and was especially familiar with the old rules of good and bad etiquette since Wei and Zhi.
Shen Yue often praised him and said: "Fan Gong is good at remembering things carefully and comprehensively, and Hu Guang cannot surpass him."
Lian Nuo, a native of Nanxiang, said to others: You should ask Fan Changtou about your advance and retreat etiquette.
This is because Jidi remembers many events from previous generations.
Transferred to Dr. Guozi.
During the Yongming Dynasty, envoys from Wei arrived. Shaoling selected court officials with literary talents and eloquence to go to the border to receive the envoys. He appointed Fan Xiu, who also served as the chief historian of Huaiyin, to greet the envoys.
He returned and was transferred to Zuocheng, the Minister of Finance. He resigned due to the death of his mother and soon returned to serve as an acting minister.
He went out to serve as General Ningshuo, Nanman Changshi, and Nanyiyang Prefect. He did not go to his post. He was transferred to the right army for consultation and joined the army. His position as county governor remained as before.
He was appointed Sima of Fujun.
When he went out, he served as General Jianwei and Internal Secretary Ancheng.
He entered the capital and was appointed as the Minister of Huangmen, and was transferred to the imperial censor Zhongcheng, a former army general, and the Dazhongzheng of Chen and Beiyanzhou.
In the last years of Yongyuan, he went out to serve as the general of the auxiliary state and the champion of Jin'an Wang Changshi, acting as agent for the affairs of southern Xuzhou.
The uprising army pacified the capital, and in accordance with the order, Fan Xiu was recruited as Shangshu Libulang to participate in the selection of major officials.
In the Liang Dynasty, Tai Pavilion was established, and Fan Xiu served as the Minister of Duzhi.
In the fifth year of Tianjian, he was transferred to Sanqi Changshi and Guanglu doctor to serve the crown prince and give support to those who supported him.
In the sixth year, he was also the prince's left guard.
In the seventh year, he was changed to Tongzhi Sanqi Changshi and Youwei General, and his position as Zhongzheng remained as before.
This year, he submitted a memorial request to retire, but the edict did not allow it.
In the eighth year, he went out to serve as the prefect of Jinling, with a rank of two thousand stones.
In the ninth year, he came to Beijing and served as the Minister of the Ancestral Temple and the General of Youxiaoqi. In this year, he was transferred to the position of Doctor Jin Ziguanglu and was awarded 20 close followers.
Thirteen years later, he died in office at the age of seventy-five.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
赙钱五万，布百匹。
岫身长七尺八寸，恭敬俨恪，进止以礼。
自亲丧之后，蔬食布衣以终身。
每所居官，恒以廉洁著称。
为长城令时，有梓材巾箱，至数十年，经贵遂不改易。
在晋陵，惟作牙管笔一双，犹以为费。
所著文集、《礼论》、《杂仪》、《字训》行于世。
二子褒，伟。
傅昭，字茂远，北地灵州人，晋司隶校尉咸七世孙也。
祖和之，父淡，善《三礼》，知名宋世。
淡事宋竟陵王刘诞，诞反，淡坐诛。
昭六岁而孤，哀毁如成人者，宗党咸异之。
十一，随外祖于硃雀航卖历日。
为雍州刺史袁抃客，抃尝来昭所，昭读书自若，神色不改。
抃叹曰： 此儿神情不凡，必成佳器。
司徒建安王休仁闻而悦之，因欲致昭，昭以宋氏多故，遂不往。
或有称昭于廷尉虞愿，愿乃遣车迎昭。
时愿宗人通之在坐，并当世名流，通之赠昭诗曰： 英妙擅山东，才子倾洛阳。
清尘谁能嗣，及尔遘遗芳。
太原王延秀荐昭于丹阳尹袁粲，深为所礼，辟为郡主簿，使诸子从昭受学。
会明帝崩，粲造哀策文，乃引昭定其所制。
每经昭户，辄叹曰： 经其户，寂若无人，披其帷，其人斯在，岂非名贤！
寻为总明学士、奉朝请。
齐永明中，累迁员外郎、司徒竟陵王子良参军、尚书仪曹郎。
先是御史中丞刘休荐昭于武帝，永明初，以昭为南郡王侍读。
王嗣帝位，故时臣隶争求权宠，惟昭及南阳宗夬，保身守正，无所参入，竟不罹其祸。
明帝践阼，引昭为中书通事舍人。
时居此职者，皆势倾天下，昭独廉静，无所干豫。
器服率陋，身安粗粝。
常插烛于板床，明帝闻之，赐漆合烛盘等，敕曰： 卿有古人之风，故赐卿古人之物。
translation: 
As a gift of 50,000 yuan and 100 pieces of cloth.
Fan Xiu is seven feet eight inches tall, respectful and serious, and advances and retreats according to etiquette.
After the death of his parents, he ate coarse food and wore common clothes until his death.
Whenever he is in an official position, he is always known for his integrity.
When he was the Great Wall Order, there was a scarf box made of catalpa wood that had been in use for decades, but it was not replaced even after he was honored.
When he was in Jinling, he only made two dental pens, which was considered a waste of property.
The collections of essays he wrote, "Li Lun", "Miscellaneous Yi" and "Zi Xun", are popular in the world.
He has two sons named Fan Bao and Fan Wei.
Fu Zhao, whose courtesy name was Maoyuan, was a native of Lingzhou in the north. He was the seventh-generation grandson of Fu Xian, the Sili captain of the Jin Dynasty.
His grandfather Hezhi and his father Fu Dan were good at "Three Rites" and were famous in the Song Dynasty.
Fu Dan served Liu Dan, King Jingling of the Song Dynasty. Liu Dan rebelled, and Fu Dan was convicted and killed.
Fu Zhao was orphaned at the age of six. He was as sad and emaciated as an adult, and his clan and township parties were surprised by this.
When he was eleven years old, he followed his grandfather to sell calendars in Zhuque Airlines.
As a retainer of Yuan Chan, the governor of Yongzhou, Yuan Jie once came to Fu Zhao's residence. Fu Zhao was studying as before, and his expression did not change.
Yuan Jie sighed and said: This child has an extraordinary expression and will definitely become a good talent.
Situ Jian'an Wang Xiuren was delighted when he heard about it and wanted to invite Fu Zhao. Fu Zhao refused to go because of the many changes in the Song family.
Someone praised Fu Zhao to Tingwei Yu Yuan, so Yu Yuan sent a vehicle to greet Fu Zhao.
At that time, Tongzhi, a member of the same clan of Yu Yuan, was sitting in the seat, and they were all contemporary celebrities. Tongzhi sent a poem to Fu Zhao, which said: The handsome man is wonderful and good at Shandong, and the talented man writes in Luoyang.
Who can continue the quiet and inaction, and spread the fragrance to your body.
Wang Yanxiu, a native of Taiyuan, recommended snakehead gall to Danyang Yin Yuancan. He was deeply respected by Sai Sai, and he was appointed as the principal of the princess. He ordered several sons to study with Fu Zhao.
When Emperor Ming died, Yuan Can wrote a mourning essay, so he quoted Fu Zhao to delete his first draft.
Whenever he passed by Fu Zhao's door, he would admire and say: "When I pass by his door, it is as quiet as if there is no one there. When I open the curtain, this person is there. Isn't he a famous person?"
Soon he served as the bachelor of the Ming Dynasty and was invited by the court.
During the Yongming Dynasty of the Qi Dynasty, he was repeatedly promoted to Yuan Wai Lang, Situ Jingling and Wang Ziliang joined the army, and Shangshu Yi Cao Lang.
Prior to this, the censor Zhongcheng Liu Xiu recommended Fu Zhao to Emperor Wu. In the early years of Yongming, Fu Zhao was appointed as the minister of Nanjun.
After the king succeeded to the throne, the old ministers and servants scrambled for power and favor. Only Fu Zhao and Zong Yang, a native of Nanyang, insisted on sticking to the right path and did not get involved, and finally avoided disaster.
Emperor Ming ascended the throne and recruited Fu Zhao as Zhongshu General Shiren.
The people who held this position at that time were all powerful in the world. Fu Zhao was honest and quiet, and did not forcefully interfere in other people's affairs.
The utensils and clothes are simple, and the body is content with being rough.
He often put fire candles on the plank bed. After hearing about it, Emperor Ming gave him lacquer boxes, candle trays and other items, and ordered: "You have the style of the ancients, so I give you the utensils of the ancients."


Chunk 2: 
original: 
累迁车骑临海王记室参军，长水校尉，太子家令，骠骑晋安王谘议参军。
寻除尚书左丞、本州大中正。
高祖素悉昭能，建康城平，引为骠骑录事参军。
梁台建，迁给事黄门侍郎，领著作郎，顷之，兼御史中丞，黄门、著作、中正并如故。
天监三年，兼五兵尚书，参选事，四年，即真。
六年，徙为左民尚书，未拜，出为建威将军、平南安成王长史、寻阳太守。
七年，入为振远将军、中权长史。
八年，迁通直散骑常侍，领步兵校尉，复领本州大中正。
十年，复为左民尚书。
十一年，出为信武将军、安成内史。
安成自宋已来兵乱，郡舍号凶。
及昭为郡，郡内人夜梦见兵马铠甲甚盛，又闻有人云 当避善人 ，军众相与腾虚而逝。
梦者惊起。
俄而疾风暴雨，倏忽便至，数间屋俱倒，即梦者所见军马践蹈之所也。
自后郡舍遂安，咸以昭正直所致。
郡溪无鱼，或有暑月荐昭鱼者，昭既不纳，又不欲拒，遂委于门侧。
十二年，入为秘书监，领后军将军。
十四年，迁太常卿。
十七年，出为智武将军、临海太守。
郡有蜜岩，前后太守皆自封固，专收其利。
昭以周文之囿，与百姓共之，大可喻小，乃教勿封。
县令常饷栗，置绢于薄下，昭笑而还之。
普通二年，入为通直散骑常侍、光禄大夫，领本州大中正，寻领秘书监。
五年，迁散骑常侍、金紫光禄大夫，中正如故。
昭所莅官，常以清静为政，不尚严肃。
居朝廷，无所请谒，不畜私门生，不交私利。
终日端居，以书记为乐，虽老不衰。
translation: 
After being promoted many times, he served as a charioteer and cavalryman in the Prince's Office of Linhai and joined the army, as a captain in Changshui and as a family order of the prince.
Soon he was appointed Minister Zuocheng and Honshu Dazhongzheng.
Emperor Gaozu was always familiar with Fu Zhao's abilities, so he built Kang City and pacified it, and recruited Kaizhao to join the army as a hussar.
After the Zhuoqiao Tai Pavilion was built, he was transferred to Shi Huangmen, Shilang, and Zuozhuang. Soon, he also served as Yushi Zhongcheng. The positions of Huangmen, Zuozhu, and Zhongzheng remained as before.
In the third year of Tianjian, he served as Minister of the Five Arms and participated in the selection of officials.
Four years, formal appointment. In the sixth year, he was appointed Minister of Zuo Min, but before taking office, he went out to serve as General Jianwei, Changshi of Pingnan Ancheng, and Prefect of Xunyang.
In the seventh year, he entered Beijing and served as general Zhenyuan and chief historian of Zhongquan.
In the eighth year, he was transferred to Tongzhi Sanqi Changshi, infantry captain, and Honshu Grand Zhongzheng.
Ten years later, he was appointed Minister of Zuo Min.
In the eleventh year, he went out to serve as General Xinwu and Internal Secretary Ancheng.
Ancheng has been in chaos since the Song Dynasty due to military wars, and the county houses are known as unlucky residences.
When Fu Zhao was appointed as the county governor, people in the county dreamed at night that the soldiers, horses and bells were strong, and they heard someone saying that good people should be avoided, and the soldiers flew into the air and disappeared.
The dreamer is frightened and wakes up.
Soon a violent storm suddenly came, and several houses collapsed, which is where the dreamer saw the army and horses trampling them.
From then on, the peace in the county was thought to be caused by Fu Zhaozhengzheng.
There were no fish in the stream in the county. Someone sent fish to Fu Zhao in the summer. Fu Zhao neither wanted to accept nor refuse, so the fish was left to rot by the door.
In the twelfth year, he entered Beijing and served as secretary supervisor and general of the rear army.
In the fourteenth year, he was transferred to Taichang Qing.
In the seventeenth year, he went out to serve as general Zhiwu and prefect of Linhai.
There was a rocky land in the county that produced honey, and the prefects at the front and back blocked it to reap the benefits.
Fu Zhao believed that King Wen of Zhou's garden should be shared with the people, and that big things could be understood as small things, so he ordered that it not be closed.
The county magistrate once sent chestnuts, wrapped in silk and placed under the curtain. Fu Zhao returned them to him with a smile.
In the second year of his reign, he came to Beijing and served as a regular attendant of Tongzhi Sanqi, a doctor of Guanglu, and as a general secretary of the state. Soon he also served as secretary and supervisor.
In the fifth year, he was transferred to Sanqi Changshi and Jin Ziguanglu, doctor. Zhongzheng remained as usual.
In the official positions held by Fu Zhao, he always administered affairs with tranquility and did not advocate harshness.
In the imperial court, one does not ask for favors, do not cultivate private disciples, and do not interact for personal gain.
Sitting upright all day long and reading books for entertainment, he does not fade even as he gets older.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
博极古今，尤善人物，魏晋以来，官宦簿伐，姻通内外，举而论之，无所遗失。
性尤笃慎。
子妇尝得家饷牛肉以进，昭召其子曰： 食之则犯法，告之则不可，取而埋之。
其居身行己，不负暗室，类皆如此。
京师后进，宗其学，重其道，人人自以为不逮。
大通二年九月，卒，时年七十五。
诏赙钱三万，布五十匹，即日举哀，谥曰贞子。
长子谞，尚书郎，临安令。
次子肱。
映字徽远，昭弟也。
三岁而孤。
兄弟友睦，修身厉行，非礼不行。
始昭之守临海，陆倕饯之，宾主俱欢，日昏不反，映以昭年高，不可连夜极乐，乃自往迎候，同乘而归，兄弟并已斑白，时人美而服焉。
及昭卒，映丧之如父，年逾七十，哀戚过礼，服制虽除，每言辄感恸。
映泛涉记传，有文才，而不以篇什自命。
少时与刘绘、萧琛相友善，绘之为南康相，映时为府丞，文教多令具草。
褚彦回闻而悦之，乃屈与子贲等游处。
年未弱冠，彦回欲令仕，映以昭未解褐，固辞，须昭仕乃官。
永元元年，参镇军江夏王军事，出为武康令。
及高祖师次建康，吴兴太守袁昂自谓门世忠贞，固守诚节，乃访于映曰： 卿谓时事云何？
映答曰： 元嘉之末，开辟未有，故太尉杀身以明节，司徒当寄托之重，理无苟全，所以不顾夷险，以殉名义。
今嗣主昏虐，狎近群小，亲贤诛戮，君子道消，外难屡作，曾无悛改。
今荆、雍协举，乘据上流，背昏向明，势无不济。
百姓思治，天人之意可知；既明且哲，忠孝之途无爽。
translation: 
Botong is knowledgeable about ancient and modern times, and is especially good at commenting on characters. Since the Wei and Jin Dynasties, he has listed and discussed official achievements, internal and external marriages, and no omissions.
He is particularly kind and cautious in character.
His daughter-in-law once presented the beef as a gift from the family. Fu Zhao called his son and said, "If you eat it, it will be against the law. It is not allowed to report it to the official. Take it away and bury it."
He behaves himself in a disciplined manner and does not disappoint the deceased emperor. This is mostly the case.
The younger generations in the capital admired his knowledge and respected his morality, and everyone thought they were inferior to him.
He died in September of the second year of Datong at the age of seventy-five.
The imperial edict ordered him to give 30,000 yuan as a gift and 50 bolts of cloth, and hold a funeral on the same day. Mi was named Sadako.
The eldest son, Fu Wei, served as the minister of Jiong and the order of Lin'an.
The second son's name was Fu Hu.
Fu Ying, whose courtesy name is Huiyuan, is Fu Zhao's younger brother.
Orphaned at the age of three.
Brothers are friendly and harmonious, cultivate their body and mind, sharpen their character, and do not do anything that is not in line with etiquette.
When Fu Zhao was appointed as the prefect of Linhai, Lu Bian gave him a farewell party. The guests and hosts were very happy and did not return until dark. Fu Ying, because Fu Zhao was old and could not entertain all night long, went to greet him in person and rode back together. The brothers were all gray-haired. People at that time praised and admired them.
When Fu Zhao passed away, Fu Ying was like his dead father. He was seventy years old, and his grief exceeded the etiquette. Although his mourning clothes were removed, he felt sad every time he talked about it.
Fu Ying dabbled extensively in historical biographies and had literary talent, but he did not take it upon himself to write articles.
When he was young, he was friendly with Liu Hui and Xiao Chen. Liu Hui was appointed as the Prime Minister of Nankang, and Fu Ying was appointed as the Prime Minister. Most of the documents and orders were drafted by Fu Ying.
Chu Yan fell in love with him after hearing about it, so he forced him to associate with his son Chu Ben and others.
When he was still under age, Yan Hui asked him to become an official. Fu Ying firmly declined because Fu Gu had not yet become an official. He waited until Zhuo became an official before becoming an official.
In the first year of Yongyuan, he served as a soldier of the Zhenjun King Si Xia and went out to serve as the Wukang Order.
When Emperor Gaozu's army stationed in Jiankang, Yuan Ang, the prefect of Wuxing, thought that his family had been loyal and upheld sincerity for generations, so he visited the altar and asked: What do you think the situation will be like?
Fu Ying replied: The situation in the last years of Wutai was unprecedented since the beginning of the world. Therefore, the Taiwei sacrificed his life to show his integrity. Situ was in the important position of assistant. Logically speaking, there was no need to be content with safety. Therefore, he sacrificed his life for the sake of teaching morality regardless of hardships and dangers.
The monarch who now succeeds to the throne is fatuous and tyrannical, close to villains, relatives and wise men are killed, the principles of a gentleman are weakened, external disasters occur repeatedly, and they do not correct themselves.
Now Jing and Yusu jointly mobilize to occupy the upper reaches, betray the darkness and return to the light. Depending on the situation, there will be no failure.
When the people think about governance, they can know the wishes of heaven and earth; they are smart and understanding, and there is no mistake in the path of loyalty and filial piety.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
愿明府更当雅虑，无祇悔也。
寻以公事免。
天监初，除征虏鄱阳王参军，建安王中权录事参军，领军长史，乌程令。
所受俸禄，悉归于兄。
复为临川王录事参军，南台治书，安成王录事，太子翊军校尉，累迁中散大夫、光禄卿，太中大夫。
大同五年，卒，年八十三。
子弘。
萧琛，字彦瑜，兰陵人。
祖僧珍，宋廷尉卿。
父惠训，太中大夫。
琛年数岁，从伯惠开抚其背曰： 必兴吾宗。
琛少而朗悟，有纵横才辩。
起家齐太学博士。
时王俭当朝，琛年少，未为俭所识，负其才气，欲候俭。
时俭宴于乐游苑，琛乃著虎皮靴，策桃枝杖，直造俭坐，俭与语，大悦。
俭为丹阳尹，辟为主簿，举为南徐州秀才，累迁司徒记室。
永明九年，魏始通好，琛再衔命到桑乾，还为通直散骑侍郎。
时魏遣李道固来使，齐帝宴之。琛于御筵举酒劝道固，道固不受，曰： 公庭无私礼，不容受劝。
琛徐答曰： 《诗》所谓 雨我公田，遂及我私 。 座者皆服，道固乃受琛酒。
迁司徒右长史。
出为晋熙王长史、行南徐州事。
还兼少府卿、尚书左丞。
东昏初嗣立，时议以无庙见之典，琛议据《周颂·烈文》、《闵予》皆为即位朝庙之典，于是从之。
高祖定京邑，引为骠骑谘议，领录事，迁给事黄门侍郎。
梁台建，为御史中丞。
天监元年，迁庶子，出为宣城太守。
征为卫尉卿，俄迁员外散骑常侍。
三年，除太子中庶子、散骑常侍。
九年，出为宁远将军、平西长史、江夏太守。
始琛在宣城，有北僧南度，惟赉一葫芦，中有《汉书序传》。
僧曰： 三辅旧老相传，以为班固真本。
琛固求得之，其书多有异今者，而纸墨亦古，文字多如龙举之例，非隶非篆，琛甚秘之。
及是行也，以书饷鄱阳王范，范乃献于东宫。
琛寻迁安西长史、南郡太守，母忧去官，又丁父艰。
起为信武将军、护军长史，俄为贞毅将军、太尉长史。
出为信威将军、东阳太守，迁吴兴太守。
郡有项羽庙，土民名为愤王，甚有灵验，遂于郡厅事安施床幕为神座，公私请祷，前后二千石皆于厅拜祠，而避居他室。
琛至，徙神还庙，处之不疑。
translation: 
I hope Mingfu will consider it carefully and not have any regrets.
Soon he was dismissed due to official duties.
In the early years of Tianjian, he was appointed as Zhenglu Sukenbian and joined the army. King Jiangui Zhongquan recorded affairs and joined the army. He led the army to make history and enigmatic order.
All the salary he received was given to his brother.
He was also appointed as Wang Lushi of Linchuan to join the army, as the secretary of Nantai, as the official secretary of Ancheng Wang, and as the military commander of Prince Yi. He was repeatedly promoted to the posts of Zhongsan doctor, Guangluqing, and Taizhong doctor.
Zuo Hui died in the fifth year at the age of eighty-three.
The son's name is Fu Hong.
Xiao Chen, courtesy name Yanyu, was born in Lanling.
His grandfather, Seng Zhen, was a court official in the Song Dynasty.
My father, Hui Xun, is a doctor in Taizhong.
When Xiao Chen was a few years old, his cousin Saiti stroked his back and said: Our family will definitely be revitalized.
Xiao Chen was cheerful and enlightened when he was young, and had unrestrained eloquence.
He became an official and became Doctor of Imperial College Zhaqiao.
At that time, Wang Jian was in power, and Xiao Chen was young and not appreciated by Wang Jian. Lu Zheng relied on his talent and wanted to visit Wang Jian.
At that time, Wang Jian held a banquet in Luan Youbao, so Kili wore tiger-skin boots and carried a peach stick, and went straight to Wang Jian's seat. Wang Jian talked with him and was overjoyed.
Wang Jian served as Qie Dang Yin, recruited him as the chief bookkeeper, recommended him as a scholar in Southern Xuzhou, and was promoted to the Situ Ji Office many times.
In the ninth year of Yongming's reign, Yu Xiuqiu began to repair Tongzhi. Xiao Chen was ordered to Diejeng twice and returned to serve as the minister of Tongzhi Sanqi.
At that time, the state of Wei sent Kuidaoli as an envoy, and Cha Tong entertained him. Lu Og toasted Daohuang at the banquet, but Daodan refused, saying: There are no private etiquette in public courtyards, so we cannot accept wine.
Xiao Chen replied slowly: "The Book of Songs" says that when raindrops fall on the public fields, they fall on my private fields at the same time. Everyone present admired it, so Dao Gu accepted Xiao Chen's advice.
Xiao Chen was promoted to Situ Youchangshi.
He went out to serve as the chief historian of King Xi of Jin Dynasty and traveled to Xuzhou in the south.
He returned and served concurrently as Shaofu Qing and Shangshu Zuocheng.
When Donghun Hou first succeeded to the throne, there was a discussion at that time because there were no regulations for visiting the ancestral temple. Xiao Chen suggested that the "Liwen" and "Min Yu" in "Song of Zhou" were the regulations for ascending to the throne and paying homage to the ancestral temple, so he followed his suggestion.
When Zhizu pacified the capital, he was recruited as a hussar to consult and record affairs, and was transferred to the minister of Huangmen.
In the Liang Dynasty, Taige was established and he served as the censor Zhongcheng.
In the first year of Tianjian, he was transferred to a concubine and went out to serve as the prefect of Xuancheng.
He was recruited as Wei Qing, and soon he was transferred to Yuanwai Sanqi Changshi.
Three years later, he was appointed as the crown prince's concubine and regular attendant of the Sanqi.
In the ninth year, he went out to serve as General Ningyuan, Changshi of Huxi, and Grand Administrator of Jiangxia.
When Xiao Chen was first in Xuancheng, a northern monk crossed the river to the south, bringing only a gourd with "Moshu Preface" wrapped in it.
The monk said: According to legend, the old man Sanfu thought this was the original copy of Ban Gu.
Lu Bao insisted on requesting to get the Qianbu Book. There were many differences in the book from the current version, and the paper and ink were also old. There were many words like a rising dragon's head. It was neither official script nor seal script. Xiao Chen cherished it very much.
On this trip, he gave the book lock to Poyang King Xiao Fan, and Xiao Fan dedicated it to the prince.
Xiao Chen was soon transferred to the post of Changshi of Anxi and Prefect of Nanjun. He resigned due to the death of his mother and the death of his father.
He came back to serve as General Xinwu and Chief of Guards, and soon became General Zhenyi and Chief of Taiwei.
When he went out, he was appointed as General Xinwei and Governor of Dongyang, and was transferred to Governor of Wuxing.
There is a temple of Xiang Yu in the county, and the local people call it King Yuan. It is very efficacious, so a tent is set up in the county hall as a shrine to pray for public and private matters. The prefects before and after worship in the hall and take refuge in other houses.
Xiao Chen arrived and moved the throne back to the temple, taking it calmly without any doubts.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
又禁杀牛解祀，以脯代肉。
琛频莅大郡，不治产业，有阙则取，不以为嫌。
普通元年，征为宗正卿，迁左民尚书，领南徐州大中正，太子右卫率。
徙度支尚书，左骁骑将军，领军将军，转秘书监、后军将军，迁侍中。
高祖在西邸，早与琛狎，每朝宴，接以旧恩，呼为宗老。
琛亦奉陈昔恩，以 早簉中阳，夙忝同闬，虽迷兴运，犹荷洪慈。
上答曰： 虽云早契阔，乃自非同志；勿谈兴运初，且道狂奴异。
琛常言： 少壮三好，音律、书、酒。
年长以来，二事都废，惟书籍不衰。
而琛性通脱，常自解灶事，毕狖余，必陶然致醉。
大通二年，为金紫光禄大夫，加特进，给亲信三十人。
中大通元年，为云麾将军、晋陵太守，秩中二千石。以疾自解，改授侍中、特进、金紫光禄大夫。
卒，年五十二。
遗令诸子，与妻同坟异藏，祭以蔬菜，葬日止车十乘，事存率素。
乘舆临哭甚哀。
诏赠本官，加云麾将军，给东园秘器，朝服一具，衣一袭，赙钱二十万，布百匹。
谥曰平子。
陆杲，字明霞，吴郡吴人。
祖徽，宋辅国将军、益州刺史。
父睿，扬州治中。
杲少好学，工书画，舅张融有高名，杲风韵举动，颇类于融，时称之曰： 无对日下，惟舅与甥。
起家齐中军法曹行参军，太子舍人，卫军王俭主簿。
迁尚书殿中曹郎，拜日，八座丞郎并到上省交礼，而杲至晚，不及时刻，坐免官。
久之，以为司徒竟陵王外兵参军，迁征虏宜都王功曹史，骠骑晋安王谘议参军，司徒从事中郎。
梁台建，以为骠骑记室参军，迁相国西曹掾。
translation: 
It is also forbidden to kill cattle to hold sacrifices to ward off evil spirits, and to use dried meat instead of fresh meat.
Xiao Chen frequently governed large counties and did not manage family property. When there was a shortage, he took it without any suspicion.
In the first year of Pongyong, he was recruited as Zong Zhengqing, transferred to Zuo Min Shangshu, and concurrently served as Dazhongzheng of Southern Xuzhou, and was led by the crown prince Youwei.
He was transferred to Duzhi Shangshu, Zuo Xiaoqi General, leading general, secretary supervisor, rear army general, and promoted to Shizhong.
When Emperor Gaozu was in the West Residence, he had been close to Xiao Chen for a long time. Whenever there were banquets in the court, he would receive him with old kindness and call Xiao Chen the elder of the clan.
Xiao Chen also recounted his past kindness, saying that he had bathed in the sunshine earlier and was ashamed to live in the same family. Although he was confused when the national destiny rose, he still received great kindness.
The emperor replied: Although they had known each other in the early years, they were not of the same mind; do not talk about the rise of the national destiny and say that the crazy and rebellious slaves hold heretics.
Xiao Chen once said: When I was a young adult, I had three hobbies: music, books, and wine.
When I got old, I gave up both things, but only reading did not decline.
However, Xiao Chen has an open-minded personality and often sacrifices himself to the Kitchen God to ward off misfortune and seek blessings. After the work is done, he eats the leftovers from the sacrifice and will definitely drink and get drunk.
In the second year of Datong, he served as Doctor Jin Ziguanglu. He was granted special promotion and awarded to thirty of his close associates.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he served as General Yunhui and Grand Administrator of Jinling, with a rank of Zhongerqianshi. Due to illness, he requested to be dismissed from his post and was appointed as Shizhong, Tejin and Jinziguanglu.
Died at the age of fifty-two.
He ordered his sons to share the same grave with his wife instead of in the same tomb, to offer sacrifices with vegetables, and to bury them in only ten cars, making things as simple as possible.
The emperor went to cry for sacrifice and was very sad.
Shaoling posthumously awarded him his original position and the title of General Yunhui. He also gave him a coffin, a set of formal attire, a set of clothes, 200,000 yuan in cash, and 100 pieces of cloth.
Mi's nickname is Pingzi.
Lu Gao, named Mingxia, was from Wu County, Wu County.
His grandfather, Lu Hui, was a general of the auxiliary state of the Sai Dynasty and the governor of Yizhou.
His father, Lu Shu, was a governor of Yangzhou.
When Lu Gao was young, he loved to study and was good at calligraphy and painting. His uncle Zhang Rong was famous. Lu Gao's demeanor and behavior were very similar to Zhang Rong. People at the time praised them and said: "A pair of uncles and nephews are unparalleled in the world."
He became an official in the Qi Dynasty and served as Cao Xing, the military commander of the Qi Dynasty.
He was transferred to Cao Lang in the Shangshu Palace. On the day of the appointment, the eight ministers and the prime ministers went to Shang Province to pay homage to each other. However, Lu Dai arrived late and failed to catch up, so he was dismissed from office.
A long time later, he was appointed as Situ Jingling's foreign soldier to join the army. He was transferred to Cao Shi, the conqueror of Yidu, and the hussar of Jin'an was consulted to join the army.
After the establishment of Zhuqutai Pavilion, he was appointed as a member of the Hussar Records Office and joined the army, and was transferred to the Xicao Department of Xiangguo.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
天监元年，除抚军长史，母忧去职。
服阕，拜建威将军、中军临川王谘议参军，寻迁黄门侍郎，右军安成王长史。
五年，迁御史中丞。
杲性婞直，无所顾望。
山阴令虞肩在任，赃污数百万，杲奏收治。
中书舍人黄睦之以肩事托杲，杲不答。
高祖闻之，以问杲，杲答曰 有之 。
高祖曰： 卿识睦之不？
杲答曰： 臣不识其人。
时睦之在御侧，上指示杲曰： 此人是也。
杲谓睦之曰： 君小人，何敢以罪人属南司？
睦之失色。
领军将军张稷，是杲从舅，杲尝以公事弹稷，稷因侍宴诉高祖曰： 陆杲是臣通亲，小事弹臣不贷。
高祖曰： 杲职司其事，卿何得为嫌！
杲在台，号称不畏强御。
六年，迁秘书监，顷之为太子中庶子、光禄卿。
八年，出为义兴太守，在郡宽惠，为民下所称。
还为司空临川王长史、领扬州大中正。
十四年，迁通直散骑侍郎，俄迁散骑常侍，中正如故。
十五年，迁司徒左长史。
十六年，入为左民尚书，迁太常卿。
普通二年，出为仁威将军、临川内史。
五年，入为金紫光禄大夫，又领扬州大中正。
中大通元年，加特进，中正如故。
四年，卒，时年七十四。
谥曰质子。
杲素信佛法，持戒甚精，著《沙门传》三十卷。
弟煦，学涉有思理。
天监初，历中书侍郎，尚书左丞，太子家令，卒。
撰《晋书》未就。
又著《陆史》十五卷，《陆氏骊泉志》一卷，并行于世。
子罩，少笃学，有文才，仕至太子中庶子、光禄卿。
史臣曰：范岫、傅昭，并笃行清慎，善始令终，斯石建、石庆之徒矣。
translation: 
In the first year of Tianjian, he was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the Fu Army, but he resigned due to the death of his mother.
After the mourning was over, he was appointed General Jianwei and the King of Linchuan of the Central Army consulted to join the army. Soon he was transferred to Huangmen Minister, and the King of Saisheng of the Right Army had a long history.
Five years later, he was transferred to the post of Censor Zhongcheng.
Lu Dai has a strong and upright character and has no scruples.
Shanyin ordered Yu Jian to be in power and embezzled several million yuan. Lu Dai raised a petition to arrest and punish him.
Huang Muzhi, a member of Zhongshushe, asked Lu Dai about Yu Jian's affairs, but Lu Dai refused.
After Gaozu heard about it, he asked Lu Gao, and Lu Gao replied that he had something to do.
Emperor Gaozu said: Do you know Mu Zhi?
Lu Dai replied: "I don't know this person."
Mu Zhi was beside the emperor at that time. The emperor pointed Mu Zhi to Lu Dai and said: This person is him.
Lu Dai said to Mu Zhi: You are a villain, how dare you entrust Nan Si with your crime?
Mu Zhi's face changed color.
The leading general Zhang Ji was Lu Dai's cousin. Lu Dai once impeached Zhang Ji on official matters. Zhang Ji used the opportunity of serving a banquet to tell Emperor Gaozu: Lu Dai is a relative of the minister, and he impeached the minister for trivial matters without mercy.
Emperor Gaozu said: Lu Gao's duty is to take care of these things, how can you have any doubts!
Lu stayed at Yushitai and had the reputation of not being afraid of rape.
In the sixth year, he was transferred to the position of secretary-supervisor, and soon he was appointed the crown prince's concubine and Guanglu Qing.
In the eighth year, he went out to serve as the prefect of Yixing. He was tolerant and kind in the county and was praised by the people and subordinates.
He returned to serve as Sikong Linchuan Wang Changshi and Yangzhou Dazhongzheng.
In the fourteenth year, he was transferred to Tongzhi Sanqi Shilang, and soon he was promoted to Sanqi Regular Shilang. Zhongzheng remained the same.
In the fifteenth year, he was promoted to Situ Zuo Changshi.
In the 16th year, he was recruited as Minister of Zuo Min and promoted to Taichang Qing.
In the second year of Xuan Nai's reign, he went out to serve as General Renwei and Lin! Internal History.
In the fifth year, he went to Beijing and served as Doctor Jin Ziguanglu, and also served as the Grand Central Magistrate of Yangzhou.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, special advancement was granted, but Zhongzheng remained as usual.
Four years. Died at the age of seventy-four.
The name is proton.
Lu Ji has always believed in Buddhism, insisted on strict precepts, and wrote thirty volumes of "The Life of Samana."
His younger brother, Lu Xu, is well-educated and has the ability to think.
In the early years of Tianjian, he successively served as the minister of Zhongshu, Zuocheng of Shangshu, and the order of the prince's family. He passed away.
The writing of "Book of Jin" was not completed.
He also wrote fifteen volumes of "History of Lu" and one volume of "History of Lu Family Liquan", both of which are popular in the world.
His son, Lu Guo, studied diligently when he was young and was talented in literature. His official position was as high as the crown prince's concubine and Guanglu Qing.
Shi Chen said: Fan Xiu and Fu Zhao both behaved honestly, honestly, prudently, and started well and ended well. These are people like Shi Jian and Shi Qing.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
萧琛、陆杲俱以才学著名。
琛朗悟辩捷，加谙究朝典，高祖在田，与琛游旧，及践天历，任遇甚隆，美矣。
杲性婞直，无所忌惮，既而执法宪台，纠绳不避权幸，可谓允兹正色。
《诗》云： 彼己之子，邦之司直。
杲其有焉。
translation: 
Xiao Ge and Lu Ji are both famous for their talent and knowledge.
Lu Jie was cheerful, enlightened, quick to argue, and familiar with court regulations. When Emperor Gaozu was in power, he dated Dong Jie. When he ascended the throne, Lu Jie's status and treatment were very grand and wonderful.
Lu Dai has a strong and upright character, and has no scruples or fears. He then enforces the law in Nansi, and does not avoid powerful and favored people when it comes to prosecution and impeachment. It can be said that he is fair and serious.
"The Book of Songs" says: He is such a person who is famous in the country.
Lu Dai must have a cool demeanor.


