Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 4, 8, 9]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
微子开者，殷帝乙之首子而帝纣之庶兄也。
纣既立，不明，淫乱于政，微子数谏，纣不听。
及祖伊以周西伯昌之修德，灭国，惧祸至，以告纣。
纣曰： 我生不有命在天乎？
是何能为！
于是微子度纣终不可谏，欲死之，及去，未能自决，乃问于太师、少师曰： 殷不有治政，不治四方。
我祖遂陈于上，纣沉湎于酒，妇人是用，乱败汤德于下。
殷既小大好草窃奸宄，卿士师师非度，皆有罪辜，乃无维获，小民乃并兴，相为敌雠。
今殷其典丧！
若涉水无津涯。
殷遂丧，越至于今。
曰： 太师，少师，我其发出往？
吾家保于丧？今女无故告予，颠跻，如之何其？ 太师若曰： 王子，天笃下菑亡殷国，乃毋畏畏，不用老长。
今殷民乃陋淫神祇之祀。
今诚得治国，国治身死不恨。
为死，终不得治，不如去。
遂亡。
箕子者，纣亲戚也。
纣始为象箸，箕子叹曰： 彼为象箸，必为玉杯；为杯，则必思远方珍怪之物而御之矣。
舆马宫室之渐自此始，不可振也。
纣为淫泆，箕子谏，不听。
人或曰： 可以去矣。
箕子曰： 为人臣谏不听而去，是彰君之恶而自说于民，吾不忍为也。
乃被发详狂而为奴。
遂隐而鼓琴以自悲，故传之曰《箕子操》。
王子比干者，亦纣之亲戚也。见箕子谏不听而为奴，则曰： 君有过而不以死争，则百姓何辜！
乃直言谏纣。
纣怒曰： 吾闻圣人之心有七窍，信有诸乎？
乃遂杀王子比干，刳视其心。
微子曰： 父子有骨肉，而臣主以义属。
故父有过，子三谏不听，则随而号之；人臣三谏不听，则其义可以去矣。
于是太师、少师乃劝微子去，遂行。
周武王伐纣克殷，微子乃持其祭器造于军门，肉袒面缚，左牵羊，右把茅，膝行而前以告。
于是武王乃释微子，复其位如故。
武王封纣子武庚禄父以续殷祀，使管叔、蔡叔傅相之。
武王既克殷，访问箕子。
武王曰： 於乎！
translation: 
Wei Zikai was the eldest son of Emperor Yi of the Yin Dynasty and the half-brother of King Zhou.
After Shang Zhou came to the throne, his rule was dark, he did not care about the affairs of the country, he was licentious and extravagant, and his followers repeatedly came to the throne, but King Zhou did not listen.
When Zuyi destroyed Xu due to Zhou Xibochang's virtuous governance, Weizi was worried that disaster would befall the Yin Dynasty, so he repeatedly advised King Zhou.
But King Zhou said: Wasn't it my destiny to be in Gastrodia when I was born?
Who can do anything to me?
Wei Zi then expected that King Zhou would not listen to his advice until his death, and planned to die or leave King Zhou. But he could not make a decision, so he went to ask the Taishi and Shaoshi, saying: The Yin Dynasty no longer has clear politics and cannot govern the four directions well.
Our ancestors created great achievements in the previous life, but King Zhou indulges in wine and banquets today, only obeying the words of women, disrupting and corrupting King Tang's good governance.
Everyone in the Yin Dynasty, big and small, was keen on thefts and rebellions in the grasslands. The ministers also imitated each other and violated laws and disciplines. Almost all of them were guilty, so their honors and titles could not continue. Since the imperial court was in chaos, the people began to rise up in all directions and became enemies of each other, and the world lost harmony.
Now, the Yin Dynasty has lost its national code, just like crossing a river by boat and not being able to find a ferry.
The demise of the Yin Dynasty is just around the corner.
Wei Zi continued: Master, Master, where will I go?
Can our Yin Dynasty be saved? You have no intention of warning me. What should I do if I fall into injustice?
The Grand Master followed suit and said: Prince, the Emperor of Heaven has brought disaster and destroyed the Yin Dynasty, but King Zhou is not afraid of the punishment of Heaven, nor does he listen to the advice of his elders.
Now, the subjects of the Yin Dynasty actually violated and falsely accused the gods of their will.
Now, if the Yin Dynasty can really be saved and the country is well managed, even if he dies, there will be no resentment left.
I'm afraid that even if you die for the country, the country still can't be governed, so it's better to go far away.
So Wei Zi left the Yin Dynasty.
Jizi is a relative of King Zhou.
When King Zhou first made ivory chopsticks, Jizi lamented: If he makes ivory chopsticks now, he will definitely make jade cups in the future; if he makes jade cups, he will definitely want to take possession of rare treasures from far away.
The luxury of carriages, horses and palaces will definitely start from here, and the country will definitely not be able to revitalize.
Because of King Zhou's excessive sexual behavior, Jizi came to remonstrate with him, but King Zhou still refused to listen.
Someone said: You can leave now.
Jizi said: When a minister remonstrates with the monarch, the monarch ignores him and then leaves him. This is to publicize the monarch's evil deeds and to flatter the people by grandstanding. I cannot bear to do this.
So Jizi disheveled his hair, pretended to be crazy and became a slave.
He lived in seclusion and masturbated by playing the piano, so people praised his song as "Ji Zi Cao".
Prince Bigan was also a relative of King Zhou. When he saw that Jizi was admonishing, but the monarch did not listen and became a slave, he said: "The monarch has sins, and if he cannot persuade him directly with death, the people will suffer, and what crime do the people have?"
So, he bluntly remonstrated with King Zhou.
King Zhou was furious and said: I heard that the saint's heart has seven orifices. Is this true?
So King Zhou killed Bigan and dug out his heart to verify.
Wei Zi said: Father and son are connected by flesh and blood, while ministers and ministers are connected by morality.
Therefore, if a father is at fault and his son refuses to listen to his advice over and over again, he should cry accordingly; if a minister refuses to listen to his advice after repeated advice, then morally speaking, the minister can leave the king.
So, the Grand Master and the Young Master advised Wei Zi to leave, and Wei Zi left.
King Wu of Zhou attacked King Zhou and defeated the Yin Dynasty. Weizi came to King Wu's military gate with his sacrificial weapon in hand. He exposed his right arm and tied his hands behind his back. He had someone on the left holding the sheep and someone on the right holding a straw. He knelt on the ground and went forward to beg King Wu.
So King Wu released Wei Zi and restored his original title.
King Wu made Wu Geng, the son of Shang Zhou, his father and asked him to inherit the sacrifices of the Yin Dynasty. He also sent Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai to assist him.
After King Wu destroyed the Yin Dynasty, he went to visit Jizi.
King Wu said: Alas!
summary:
Wei Zikai, eldest son of Emperor Yi of Yin and half-brother of King Zhou, repeatedly advised King Zhou against his dark, licentious rule but was ignored. Fearing Yin's downfall, Wei Zi consulted the Grand Master and Junior Master, who advised him to leave when the kingdom became irredeemable. He then departed. Jizi, a relative of King Zhou, lamented King Zhou's extravagance with ivory chopsticks, foreseeing ruin. After King Zhou ignored his remonstrations, Jizi feigned madness and became a slave rather than publicize the king's evil. Prince Bigan, another relative, bluntly admonished King Zhou, who killed him and ripped out his heart to check for seven orifices. Wei Zi concluded that ministers may leave a king who refuses repeated advice.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
庶征：曰雨，曰阳，曰奥，曰寒，曰风，曰时。
五者来备，各以其序，庶草繁庑。
一极备，凶。
一极亡，凶。
曰休征：曰肃，时雨若；曰治，时旸若；曰知，时奥若；曰谋，时寒若；曰圣，时风若。
曰咎征：曰狂，常雨若；曰僭，常旸若；曰舒，常奥若；曰急，常寒若；曰雾，常风若。王眚维岁，卿士维月，师尹维日。
岁月日时毋易，百谷用成，治用明，畯民用章，家用平康。
日月岁时既易，百谷用不成，治用昏不明，畯民用微，家用不宁。庶民维星，星有好风，星有好雨。
日月之行，有冬有夏。
月之从星，则以风雨。
五福：一曰寿，二曰富，三曰康宁，四曰攸好德，五曰考终命。
六极：一曰凶短折，二曰疾，三曰忧，四曰贫，五曰恶，六曰弱。
于是武王乃封箕子于朝鲜而不臣也。
其后箕子朝周，过故殷虚，感宫室毁坏，生禾黍，箕子伤之，欲哭则不可，欲泣为其近妇人，乃作《麦秀之诗》以歌咏之。其诗曰： 麦秀渐渐兮，禾黍油油。
彼狡僮兮，不与我好兮！
所谓狡童者，纣也。
殷民闻之，皆为流涕。
武王崩，成王少，周公旦代行政当国。
管、蔡疑之，乃与武庚作乱，欲袭成王、周公。
周公既承成王命诛武庚，杀管叔，放蔡叔，乃命微子开代殷后，奉其先祀，作《微子之命》以申之，国于宋。
微子故能仁贤，乃代武庚，故殷之余民甚戴爱之。
translation: 
Various signs: whether it is rain, sunshine, warmth, cold, or wind, these five natural phenomena should occur on time.
If all five natural phenomena are present and appear according to certain rules, crops will flourish.
If too much of one phenomenon occurs, the harvest will fail.
If a phenomenon is lacking, the harvest will also fail.
Regarding good omens: if the emperor is humble, it will rain on time; if the emperor is clear in government affairs, the sun will be abundant; if the emperor is wise, warmth will come on time; if the emperor is foresighted, cold will come on time; if the emperor is wise, the wind will blow on time.
There are all kinds of evil signs: if the emperor is arrogant, there will be too much rain; if the emperor is presumptuous, the sky will be dry; if the emperor is greedy for pleasure, the weather will be too hot; if the emperor is violent and impatient, the sky will be too cold; if the emperor is dim and unclear, the wind will blow continuously; if the emperor makes mistakes in his decision-making, it will affect the whole year; if the emperor's management is wrong, it will affect the whole month; if the officials are wrong in doing things, it will affect the whole day.
If there are no abnormalities in the year, month, and day, all kinds of crops will grow luxuriantly, politics will be clear, worthy people will be promoted, and the country will be safe and stable.
On the contrary, if there are abnormalities in the year, month, and day, the crops will not grow well, the politics will be gloomy, the capable people will be suppressed, and the country will be in turmoil. The people are like stars, and some stars like wind and some like rain.
The sun and the moon move according to rules, resulting in winter and summer.
If the moon obeys the stars, it will be windy sometimes and rainy sometimes.
Five blessings: first, longevity, second, wealth, third, peace, fourth, virtue, and fifth, a good death.
Six disasters: one is premature death, the other is illness, the third is sadness, the fourth is poverty, the fifth is ugliness, and the sixth is cowardice.
After hearing Jizi's statement, King Wu granted North Korea to Jizi and no longer regarded him as a subject.
Later, Jizi paid homage to the King of Zhou and passed by his old capital Yinxu. He was saddened by the ruins of the palace and the overgrown crops. Jizi was very sad and wanted to cry loudly, but he couldn't. He wanted to cry quietly, but he also felt that he was close to a woman's character, so he recited "Mai Xiu" in response to the scene. The poem said: The wheat awns are sharp and the grass seedlings are green.
That boy is not friendly to me!
The so-called boy is King Zhou.
When the people of Yin saw this poem, they all cried for it.
After King Wu died and King Cheng was still young, Zhou Gongdan took charge of the state power as an acting administrator.
Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai suspected Zhou Gongdan, so they started a rebellion with Wu Geng and wanted to attack King Cheng and Duke Zhou.
Zhou Gong borrowed the order from King Cheng to kill Wu Geng and Guan Shu, and banished Cai Shu. He also asked Wei Zikai to take charge of Yin in Wu Geng's place to continue the sacrifice of Yin's ancestors. He also warned him with the "Wei Zi's Order" and sealed Wei Zi in the Song Dynasty.
Weizi was originally benevolent, righteous and capable. After replacing Wu Geng, the people in the old land of the Yin Dynasty loved him very much.
summary:
King Wu of Zhou defeated Yin, and Wei Zi surrendered, bearing sacrificial vessels. King Wu restored Wei Zi's title and appointed Wu Geng, son of Shang Zhou, to continue Yin sacrifices, with Guan Shu and Cai Shu as assistants. King Wu visited Jizi, who explained the nine great laws of heaven: the Five Elements, Five Matters, Eight Political Rules, Five Epochs, Imperial Principles, Three Virtues, Divination, Various Signs, and Five Blessings with Six Extremes. King Wu granted Jizi Korea, no longer treating him as a subject. Jizi later composed a poem mourning Yin's ruins.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
微子开卒，立其弟衍，是为微仲。
微仲卒，子宋公稽立。
宋公稽卒，子丁公申立。
丁公申卒，子愍公共立。
愍公共卒，弟炀公熙立。
炀公即位，愍公子鲋祀弑炀公而自立，曰 我当立 ，是为厉公。
厉公卒，子厘公举立。
厘公十七年，周厉王出奔彘。
二十八年，厘公卒，子惠公覵立。
惠公四年，周宣王即位。
三十年，惠公卒，子哀公立。
哀公元年卒，子戴公立。
戴公二十九年，周幽王为犬戎所杀，秦始列为诸侯。
三十四年，戴公卒，子武公司空立。
武公生女为鲁惠公夫人，生鲁桓公。
十八年，武公卒，子宣公力立。
宣公有太子与夷。
十九年，宣公病，让其弟和，曰： 父死子继，兄死弟及，天下通义也，我其立和。
和亦三让而受之。
宣公卒，弟和立，是为穆公。
穆公九年，病，召大司马孔父谓曰： 先君宣公舍太子与夷而立我，我不敢忘。
我死，必立与夷也。
孔父曰： 群臣皆愿立公子冯。
穆公曰： 毋立冯，吾不可以负宣公。
于是穆公使冯出居于郑。
八月庚辰，穆公卒，兄宣公子与夷立，是为殇公。
君子闻之，曰： 宋宣公可谓知人矣，立其弟以成义，然卒其子复享之。
殇公元年，卫公子州吁弑其君完自立，欲得诸侯，使告于宋曰： 冯在郑，必为乱，可与我伐之。
宋许之，与伐郑，至东门而还。
二年，郑伐宋，以报东门之役。
其后诸侯数来侵伐。
九年，大司马孔父嘉妻好，出，道遇太宰华督，督说，目而观之。
translation: 
After Wei Zikai died, he made his younger brother Yan the king of the country. This is Wei Zhong.
After Weizhong's death, his son Song Gongji came to the throne.
After the death of Song Gongji, his son Ding Gongshen came to the throne.
After the death of Ding Gongshen, his son Min Gong came to the throne.
After Min Gong died, his younger brother Yang Gongxi came to the throne.
After Duke Yang ascended the throne, Min Gong's son Yusi killed Duke Yang and seized the throne, and announced: "I should ascend the throne." This is Duke Li.
After Li Gong died, his son Li Gongju came to the throne.
In the seventeenth year of Ligong's reign, King Li of Zhou fled to pig.
In the twenty-eighth year, after Duke Li died, his son Hui Gong came to the throne.
In the fourth year of Duke Hui, King Xuan of Zhou came to the throne.
In the thirtieth year, Duke Hui passed away and Duke Ai came to the throne.
Ai Gong died in the first year, and his son Dai Gong came to the throne.
In the twenty-ninth year of Dai Gong, King You of Zhou was killed by Quan Rong, and Qin began to be classified as a vassal state.
In the thirty-fourth year, Duke Dai died, and his son Wu Gong came to the throne empty.
Duke Wu gave birth to a daughter, who later became the wife of Duke Hui of Lu and gave birth to Duke Huan of Lu.
In the eighteenth year, Duke Wu died and his son Xuan Gongli came to the throne.
Xuan Gong's prince's name is Yi.
In the 19th year, Duke Xuan fell ill and gave up the throne to his younger brother He, saying: "When the father dies, the son succeeds to the throne; when the elder brother dies, the younger brother succeeds to the throne. This is the universal morality in the world." I want to establish He as the king of the country.
He gave in many times before finally accepting.
After the death of Duke Xuan, his younger brother He ascended the throne and became Duke Mu.
In the ninth year, Duke Mu fell seriously ill. He summoned Grand Sima Kongfu and said, "The late king, Duke Xuan, abandoned the crown prince and the barbarians and passed the throne to me. I will never forget it."
After I die, I must support Yu Yi as the king.
Father Confucius said: All the ministers want to establish Prince Feng.
Duke Mu said: "Don't support Feng. I can't let Duke Xuan down."
So Duke Mu ordered his son Feng to go and live in the state of Zheng.
On Gengchen Day in August, Duke Mu died, and his brother Xuangong's son Yi succeeded him as Duke Shang.
When the gentlemen heard about this, they said: Song Xuan Gong knew people well and fulfilled his morality by passing the throne to his younger brother. However, in the end it was his son who got the throne.
In the first year of Shang Dynasty, Duke Zhouxu of Wei killed his own king Wan and established himself as king. Wanting to get the support of the princes, he sent someone to tell the king of Song: "Young Master Feng is in Zheng, and he will be a trouble in the future. You can work with me to attack him."
The king of Song State agreed, and he and Wei State jointly attacked Zheng State. The army returned after reaching the east gate of Zheng State.
The next year, Zheng Guo attacked the Song State and avenged the hatred of the Dongmen soldiers.
After that, the princes came to invade the Song Dynasty many times.
One day in the ninth year, the beautiful wife of the Grand Sima Kong Fujia went out and met Dazai Hua Du on the road. Hua Du took a fancy to Zhongjia's wife and looked at her intently.
summary:
After King Wu's death, Zhou Gongdan, acting as regent, suppressed a rebellion by Guan Shu, Cai Shu, and Wu Geng. He killed Wu Geng, exiled Cai Shu, and appointed Wei Zikai to rule Yin, later enfeoffing him in Song. Wei Zi's benevolent rule endeared him to the people. His successors included Wei Zhong, Song Gongji, Ding Gongshen, Min Gong, Yang Gongxi, Li Gong, Li Gongju, Hui Gong, Ai Gong, Dai Gong, Wu Gong, Xuan Gongli, and Mu Gong. Mu Gong, honoring his brother Xuan Gong's wish, passed the throne to Xuan Gong's son Yi (Duke Shang) instead of his own son.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
乃立共公少子成，是为平公。
平公三年，楚共王拔宋之彭城，以封宋左师鱼石。
四年，诸侯共诛鱼石，而归彭城于宋。
三十五年，楚公子围弑其君自立，为灵王。
四十四年，平公卒，子元公佐立。
元公三年，楚公子弃疾弑灵王，自立为平王。
八年，宋火。
十年，元公毋信，诈杀诸公子。
大夫华、向氏作乱。
楚平王太子建来奔，见诸华氏相攻乱，建去如郑。
十五年，元公为鲁昭公避季氏居外，为之求入鲁，行道卒，子景公头曼立。
景公十六年，鲁阳虎来奔，已复去。
二十五年，孔子过宋，宋司马桓魋恶之，欲杀孔子，孔子微服去。
三十年，曹倍宋，又倍晋，宋伐曹，晋不救，遂灭曹有之。
三十六年，齐田常弑简公。
三十七年，楚惠王灭陈。荧惑守心。
心，宋之分野也，景公忧之。
司星子韦曰： 可移于相。
景公曰： 相，吾之股肱。
曰： 可移于民。
景公曰： 君者待民。
曰： 可移于岁。
景公曰： 岁饥民困，吾谁为君！
子韦曰： 天高听卑君有君人之言三，荧惑宜有动。
于是候之，果徙三度。
六十四年，景公卒。
宋公子特攻杀太子而自立，是为昭公。
昭公者，元公之曾庶孙也。
昭公父公孙纠，纠父公子褍秦，褍秦即元公少子也。
景公杀昭公父纠，故昭公怨杀太子而自立。
昭公四十七年卒，子悼公购由立。
悼公八年卒，子休公田立。
休公田二十三年卒，子辟公辟兵立。
辟公三年卒，子剔成立。
translation: 
So, he supported the young son of Gong Gong, who became Ping Gong.
In the third year of Ping Gong's reign, the King of the Communist Party of Chu captured Pengcheng of the Song Dynasty and granted Pengcheng to Yushi, Zuo Shi of the Song Dynasty.
In four years, the princes united to kill Yushi and returned Pengcheng to the Song Dynasty.
In the thirty-fifth year, the prince of Chu besieged the king who killed him and ascended the throne. This was King Ling of Chu.
In the forty-fourth year, Duke Ping died, and his son Yuan Gongzuo came to the throne.
In the third year of Duke Yuan, Chu Gongzi abandoned his illness and killed the king and ascended the throne, becoming King Ping.
In eight years, a fire broke out in Song Dynasty.
In the past ten years, Duke Yuan was dishonest and used deceptive means to kill all the princes.
The officials Hua and Xiang raised armies one after another to cause chaos.
Prince Jian of King Ping of Chu fled to the State of Song. Seeing Hua and others attacking each other, he left the State of Song and ran to the State of Zheng.
In the fifteenth year, because Lu Zhaogong was living abroad to avoid the Ji family, Yuan Gong prayed for Lu Zhaogong to return to Lu. As a result, he died on the way, and his son Jinggong Touman came to the throne.
In the 16th year of Jinggong, Yang Hu of the state of Lu fled to the state of Song, and soon left again.
In the twenty-fifth year, Confucius passed by the Song Dynasty. Sima Huanxi of the Song Dynasty hated Confucius and wanted to kill him. Confucius put on civilian clothes and escaped from the Song Dynasty.
Thirty years later, Cao State broke its alliance with Song State and then broke its alliance with Jin State. Song State then attacked Cao State, but Jin State did not come to rescue, so Song State destroyed Cao State and occupied Cao State's territory.
In the thirty-sixth year, Qi State official Tian Chang killed the monarch Jian Gong.
In the thirty-seventh year, King Hui of Chu lost the Kingdom of Chen, and Mars invaded the Antares star region.
Xinsu District is the territory of the Song Dynasty, and Jinggong is very worried about it.
Ziwei, who is in charge of the stars, said: The disaster can be transferred to the prime minister.
Jinggong said: "No, the Prime Minister is like my brothers and feet."
Ziwei added: "It can be passed on to the people."
Jinggong said: "No, the king relies on the people."
Ziwei said again: It can be transferred to annual achievements.
Jinggong said: "Not to mention, the harvest will fail and the people will be poor. Whose king should I be then?"
Ziwei said: Although the sky is high, you can still hear the subtle sounds of the lower world. You have said the three words that a king should say, and the Mars should have moved.
So I observed Mars carefully and found that Mars indeed moved three degrees.
In the sixty-fourth year, Jinggong passed away.
Song Gongzi killed the prince and ascended the throne. This was Zhao Gong.
Duke Zhao is the great-grandson of Duke Yuan.
Zhao Gong's father was Gongsun Jiu, Jiu's father was Gongzi Chu Qin, and Chu Qin was the youngest son of Duke Yuan.
Duke Jinggong killed Duke Zhao's father, Gongsun Jiu, so Duke Zhao resented the prince, so he killed him and took the throne himself.
Duke Zhao died in his forty-seventh year, and his son mourned him and made you the king.
After reigning for eight years, Duke Du passed away, and his son Xiu Gongtian came to the throne.
Xiu Gongtian died in the 23rd year of his reign, and his son came to the throne.
Pi Gong died after three years in office, and his son Ticheng came to the throne.
summary:
Duke Shang's reign saw turmoil: Hua Du killed Kong's father and Duke Shang, installing Duke Zhuang. Subsequent rulers included Min Gong, Huan Gong, Xiang Gong, Cheng Gong, Zhao Gong, Wen Gong, Gong Gong, Ping Gong, Yuan Gong, Jing Gong, Zhao Gong, Duke Du, Xiu Gongtian, Pi Gong, Ticheng, and Yan. Yan, known as "Jie Song," indulged in cruelty and debauchery, shooting advisors. The princes allied with Qi to attack Song, killing Yan and dividing its territory in his forty-seventh year.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
剔成四十一年，剔成弟偃攻袭剔成，剔成败奔齐，偃自立为宋君。
君偃十一年，自立为王。
东败齐，取五城；南败楚，取地三百里；西败魏军，乃与齐、魏为敌国。
盛血以韦囊，县而射之，命曰 射天 。
淫于酒、妇人。
群臣谏者辄射之。
于是诸侯皆曰 桀宋 。 宋其复为纣所为，不可不诛 。
告齐伐宋。
王偃立四十七年，齐愍王与魏、楚伐宋，杀王偃，遂灭宋而三分其地。
太史公曰：孔子称 微子去之，箕子为之奴，比干谏而死，殷有三仁焉 。
《春秋》讥宋之乱自宣公废太子而立弟，国以不宁者十世。
襄公之时，修行仁义，欲为盟主。
其大夫正考父美之，故追道契、汤、高宗，殷所以兴，作《商颂》。
襄公既败于泓，而君子或以为多，伤中国阙礼义，褒之也，宋襄之有礼让也。
translation: 
During the forty-one year of Ticheng's reign, Ticheng's younger brother Yan attacked Ticheng. Ticheng failed and fled to Qi, where Yan established himself as the king of Song.
In the eleventh year, Yan himself was crowned king.
He defeated the State of Qi to the east and captured five cities; he defeated the State of Chu to the south and occupied more than 300 miles of Chu land; he defeated the State of Wei to the west and became enemies with Qi and Wei.
Jun Yan used a cowhide bag to hold the blood, hung it up and shot it with arrows, which was called "shooting the sky".
Jun Yan indulged in wine and sex all day long.
All ministers who gave advice and advice were shot to death by him with arrows.
So the princes all called him Jie Song. Song Junyan followed in the footsteps of King Zhou and did whatever he wanted, so he had to kill him.
The princes asked Qi to attack Song.
When King Yan of the Song Dynasty came to the throne forty-seven years, King Min of Qi joined forces with Wei and Chu to attack the Song State, killed Yan, destroyed the Song State, and divided the Song State's territory.
Tai Shigong said: Confucius said: Weizi left, Jizi became a slave, Bigan was killed when he came to remonstrate, and there were three benevolent people in the Yin Dynasty.
"Spring and Autumn" ridiculed that the turmoil in the Song Dynasty began when Duke Xuan deposed the prince and allowed his younger brother to take the throne. The country was unstable for ten generations.
When Duke Xiang was in power, he practiced benevolence and righteousness and wanted to be the leader of the alliance.
In order to praise him, his doctor Zheng Kaofu traced the reasons for the prosperity of the Yin Dynasty in the Qi, Tang and Gaozong periods and wrote "Ode to Shang".
Song Xianggong was defeated at Hongshui, but some gentlemen still thought he was worthy of praise. This was because the gentlemen lamented that the countries in the Central Plains region lacked etiquette at that time, so they commended him because Song Xianggong had a spirit of courtesy.
summary:
Tai Shigong concluded that Confucius recognized three benevolent men of Yin: Wei Zi, Jizi, and Bigan. The "Spring and Autumn" noted Song's instability began when Duke Xuan deposed the prince for his brother. Duke Xiang's benevolent attempts at leadership were praised, though he was defeated at Hongshui; gentlemen commended his adherence to ritual propriety amidst the era's lack of etiquette.

