Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 2, 3, 6, 8, 15]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
王沈，字处道，太原晋阳人也。
祖柔，汉匈奴中郎将。
父机，魏东郡太守。
沈少孤，养于从叔司空昶，事昶如父。奉继母寡嫂以孝义称。
好书，善属文。
大将军曹爽辟为掾，累迁中书门下侍郎。
及爽诛，以故吏免。
后起为治书侍御史，转秘书监。
正元中，迁散骑常侍、侍中，典著作。
与荀顗、阮籍共撰《魏书》，多为时讳，未若陈寿之实录也。
时魏高贵乡公好学有文才，引沈及裴秀数于东堂讲宴属文，号沈为文籍先生，秀为儒林丈人。
及高贵乡公将攻文帝，召沈及王业告之，沈、业驰白帝，以功封安平侯，邑二千户。
沈既不忠于主，甚为众论所非。
寻迁尚书，出监豫州诸军事、奋武将军、豫州刺史。
至镇，乃下教曰： 自古贤圣，乐闻诽谤之言，听舆人之论，刍荛有可录之事，负薪有廊庙之语故也。
自至镇日，未闻逆耳之言，岂未明虚心，故令言者有疑。
其宣下属城及士庶，若能举遗逸于林薮，黜奸佞于州国，陈长吏之可否，说百姓之所患，兴利除害，损益昭然者，给谷五百斛。
若达一至之言，说刺史得失，朝政宽猛，令刚柔得适者，给谷千斛。
谓余不信，明如皎日。
主簿陈廞、褚曰： 奉省教旨，伏用感叹。
劳谦日昃，思闻苦言。
愚谓上之所好，下无不应。
而近未有极谏之辞，远无传言之箴者，诚得失之事将未有也。
今使教命班下，示以赏劝，将恐拘介之士，或惮赏而不言；贪赇之人，将慕利而妄举。
translation: 
Wang Chen, courtesy name Chudao, was born in Jinyang, Taiyuan.
His grandfather, Wang Rou, was a lieutenant general of the Huns in the Han Dynasty.
His father, Wang Ji, was the prefect of Wei Dong County.
When Wang Chen lost his father when he was young, he was adopted by his cousin Sikong Wang Chang. He served Wang Chang as if he were his biological father, and he was famous for his filial piety in serving his stepmother and widowed sister-in-law.
Good at reading and good at writing articles.
General Cao Shuang recruited him as a subordinate officer, and gradually moved to the position of minister under Zhongshu's family.
When Cao Shuang was executed, he was dismissed because of his status as an old official.
Later, he was appointed as the censor of the book administration department and transferred to the position of secretary supervisor.
During the Zhengyuan period, he was promoted to the rank of Sanqi Changshi and Shizhong, and was in charge of writings.
Together with Xunjie and Ruan Ji, he wrote the "Book of Wei". He often had hidden taboos and did not record it as truthfully as Chen Shou did.
At that time, Duke Gaogui of Wei was eager to learn and have literary talents. He invited Wang Chen and Pei Xiu to give lectures, banquets and write articles in Shutang many times.
Duke Gaogui was about to attack Emperor Wen, so he summoned Wang Shen and Wang Ye to tell them. Wang Chen and Wang Ye quickly reported to Emperor Wen, and they were granted the title of Marquis of Anping for their meritorious service. There are two thousand households in the city.
Because Wang Chen was disloyal to his master, he was criticized by public opinion.
Soon he was promoted to minister, and went out of the capital to supervise the military affairs of Yuzhou, General Fenwu, and governor of Yuzhou.
When he arrived at his post, he taught: The ancient sages like to listen to criticism and listen to the opinions of their servants. Those who cut grass and chop wood can also record things, and those who carry firewood can tell the affairs of the court.
Since the day I arrived at my post, I haven't heard anything offensive. Is it because I didn't show my humility and made people suspicious?
Notify the city and the people of the city that if you can recommend reclusive talents from among the people, depose treacherous officials in the state, state the good and bad of officials, tell the people's worries, promote benefits and eliminate harm, and if the effect is remarkable, you will be given five hundred dendrobium of grain.
If it is a wise saying, commenting on the gains and losses of the governor, the leniency and strictness of the government, and the appropriateness of firmness and softness, a thousand dendrobium of grain will be given as a gift.
Don't say I'm dishonest, my integrity is like the bright sun.
Chen Chang and Chu Bi, the chief registrars, said: Reading the decree while holding the bundle in hand makes us sigh.
I am tired and humble from morning to night, and I still want to hear criticism.
We believe that what is good for the people above should be followed by the people below.
However, there are no people trying to persuade me around me, and there are no words of advice from far away. This is because there are almost no things related to gains and losses.
Now that the decree is promulgated, it means that there will be rewards and encouragement. I am afraid that some honest and self-restrained people will be afraid of the rewards and will not speak up; those who are greedy for money will make random reports for the sake of profit.

summary:
summary line 0: Wang Chen, courtesy name Chudao, was born in Jinyang, Taiyuan. His grandfather Wang Rou served as a lieutenant general of the Huns in the Han Dynasty, and his father Wang Ji was the prefect of Wei Dong County. Orphaned young, Wang Chen was adopted by his cousin Sikong Wang Chang, whom he served as a biological father, gaining fame for his filial piety toward his stepmother and widowed sister-in-law. He was well-read and skilled in writing. General Cao Shuang recruited him as a subordinate officer, and he gradually rose to minister under Zhongshu's family. After Cao Shuang's execution, Wang Chen was dismissed as an old official but later reappointed as censor of the book administration department and transferred to secretary supervisor. During the Zhengyuan period, he was promoted to Sanqi Changshi and Shizhong, overseeing writings. Together with Xunjie and Ruan Ji, he compiled the "Book of Wei," though he often concealed taboos and did not record events as truthfully as Chen Shou.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
王沈，字处道，太原晋阳人也。
祖柔，汉匈奴中郎将。
父机，魏东郡太守。
沈少孤，养于从叔司空昶，事昶如父。奉继母寡嫂以孝义称。
好书，善属文。
大将军曹爽辟为掾，累迁中书门下侍郎。
及爽诛，以故吏免。
后起为治书侍御史，转秘书监。
正元中，迁散骑常侍、侍中，典著作。
与荀顗、阮籍共撰《魏书》，多为时讳，未若陈寿之实录也。
时魏高贵乡公好学有文才，引沈及裴秀数于东堂讲宴属文，号沈为文籍先生，秀为儒林丈人。
及高贵乡公将攻文帝，召沈及王业告之，沈、业驰白帝，以功封安平侯，邑二千户。
沈既不忠于主，甚为众论所非。
寻迁尚书，出监豫州诸军事、奋武将军、豫州刺史。
至镇，乃下教曰： 自古贤圣，乐闻诽谤之言，听舆人之论，刍荛有可录之事，负薪有廊庙之语故也。
自至镇日，未闻逆耳之言，岂未明虚心，故令言者有疑。
其宣下属城及士庶，若能举遗逸于林薮，黜奸佞于州国，陈长吏之可否，说百姓之所患，兴利除害，损益昭然者，给谷五百斛。
若达一至之言，说刺史得失，朝政宽猛，令刚柔得适者，给谷千斛。
谓余不信，明如皎日。
主簿陈廞、褚曰： 奉省教旨，伏用感叹。
劳谦日昃，思闻苦言。
愚谓上之所好，下无不应。
而近未有极谏之辞，远无传言之箴者，诚得失之事将未有也。
今使教命班下，示以赏劝，将恐拘介之士，或惮赏而不言；贪赇之人，将慕利而妄举。
translation: 
Wang Chen, courtesy name Chudao, was born in Jinyang, Taiyuan.
His grandfather, Wang Rou, was a lieutenant general of the Huns in the Han Dynasty.
His father, Wang Ji, was the prefect of Wei Dong County.
When Wang Chen lost his father when he was young, he was adopted by his cousin Sikong Wang Chang. He served Wang Chang as if he were his biological father, and he was famous for his filial piety in serving his stepmother and widowed sister-in-law.
Good at reading and good at writing articles.
General Cao Shuang recruited him as a subordinate officer, and gradually moved to the position of minister under Zhongshu's family.
When Cao Shuang was executed, he was dismissed because of his status as an old official.
Later, he was appointed as the censor of the book administration department and transferred to the position of secretary supervisor.
During the Zhengyuan period, he was promoted to the rank of Sanqi Changshi and Shizhong, and was in charge of writings.
Together with Xunjie and Ruan Ji, he wrote the "Book of Wei". He often had hidden taboos and did not record it as truthfully as Chen Shou did.
At that time, Duke Gaogui of Wei was eager to learn and have literary talents. He invited Wang Chen and Pei Xiu to give lectures, banquets and write articles in Shutang many times.
Duke Gaogui was about to attack Emperor Wen, so he summoned Wang Shen and Wang Ye to tell them. Wang Chen and Wang Ye quickly reported to Emperor Wen, and they were granted the title of Marquis of Anping for their meritorious service. There are two thousand households in the city.
Because Wang Chen was disloyal to his master, he was criticized by public opinion.
Soon he was promoted to minister, and went out of the capital to supervise the military affairs of Yuzhou, General Fenwu, and governor of Yuzhou.
When he arrived at his post, he taught: The ancient sages like to listen to criticism and listen to the opinions of their servants. Those who cut grass and chop wood can also record things, and those who carry firewood can tell the affairs of the court.
Since the day I arrived at my post, I haven't heard anything offensive. Is it because I didn't show my humility and made people suspicious?
Notify the city and the people of the city that if you can recommend reclusive talents from among the people, depose treacherous officials in the state, state the good and bad of officials, tell the people's worries, promote benefits and eliminate harm, and if the effect is remarkable, you will be given five hundred dendrobium of grain.
If it is a wise saying, commenting on the gains and losses of the governor, the leniency and strictness of the government, and the appropriateness of firmness and softness, a thousand dendrobium of grain will be given as a gift.
Don't say I'm dishonest, my integrity is like the bright sun.
Chen Chang and Chu Bi, the chief registrars, said: Reading the decree while holding the bundle in hand makes us sigh.
I am tired and humble from morning to night, and I still want to hear criticism.
We believe that what is good for the people above should be followed by the people below.
However, there are no people trying to persuade me around me, and there are no words of advice from far away. This is because there are almost no things related to gains and losses.
Now that the decree is promulgated, it means that there will be rewards and encouragement. I am afraid that some honest and self-restrained people will be afraid of the rewards and will not speak up; those who are greedy for money will make random reports for the sake of profit.

summary:
summary line 1: Duke Gaogui of Wei, eager to learn and talented, frequently invited Wang Chen and Pei Xiu to lectures and banquets in Shutang. When the Duke planned to attack Emperor Wen, he summoned Wang Chen and Wang Ye to inform them, but Wang Chen and Wang Ye quickly reported to Emperor Wen. For this, they were granted the title of Marquis of Anping with two thousand households. Wang Chen's disloyalty to his master drew public criticism. He was soon promoted to minister and sent to supervise military affairs in Yuzhou as General Fenwu and governor. Upon arrival, he issued a decree encouraging criticism and recommendations, offering rewards of grain for those who exposed corruption or proposed beneficial policies. His chief registrars, Chen Chang and Chu Bi, advised caution, fearing that rewards might deter honest people or attract greedy ones. Wang Chen initially insisted on his sincerity but eventually relented, following Chu Bi's advice. He then focused on good governance, implementing legal prohibitions established since Jia Kui and promoting education to reform declining customs.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
沈以才望，显名当世，是以创业之事，羊祜、荀勖、裴秀、贾充等，皆与沈谘谋焉。
及帝受禅，以佐命之勋，转骠骑将军、录尚书事，加散骑常侍，统城外诸军事。
封博陵郡公，固让不受，乃进爵为县公，邑千八百户。
帝方欲委以万机，泰始二年薨。
帝素服举哀，赐秘器朝服一具、衣一袭、钱三十万、布百匹、葬田一顷，谥曰元。
明年，帝追思沈勋，诏曰： 夫表扬往行，所以崇贤垂训，慎终纪远，厚德兴教也。
故散骑常侍、骠骑将军、博陵元公沈蹈礼居正，执心清粹，经纶坟典，才识通洽。
入历常伯纳言之位，出干监牧方岳之任，内著谋猷，外宣威略。
建国设官，首登公辅，兼统中朝，出纳大命，实有翼亮佐世之勋。
其赠沈司空公，以宠灵既往，使没而不朽。
又前以翼赞之勋，当受郡公之封，而固辞恳至，嘉其让德，不夺其志。
可以郡公官属送葬。
沈素清俭，不营产业。
其使所领兵作屋五十间。
子浚嗣。
后沈夫人荀氏卒，将合葬，沈棺榇已毁，更赐东园秘器。
咸宁中，复追封沈为郡公。
浚字彭祖。
母赵氏妇，良家女也，贫贱，出入沈家，遂生浚，沈初不齿之。
年十五，沈薨，无子，亲戚共立浚为嗣，拜驸马都尉。
太康初，与诸王侯俱就国。
三年来朝，除员外散骑侍郎。
元康初，转员外常侍，迁越骑校尉、右军将军。
出补河内太守，以郡公不得为二千石，转东中郎将，镇许昌。
及愍怀太子幽于许昌，浚承贾后旨，与黄门孙虑共害太子。
迁宁北将军、青州刺史。
寻徙宁朔将军、持节、都督幽州诸军事。
translation: 
Wang Chen was famous for his talents and fame at that time. Therefore, Yang Hu, Xun Xu, Pei Xiu, Jia Chong and others all discussed with Wang Chen about starting a business.
When Emperor Wu accepted the abdication, because of his merits in assisting the emperor, he was transferred to the general of hussars, the secretary of green, and the regular attendant of casual cavalry to control the military outside the city.
He was granted the title of Duke of Boling County, but he resolutely refused to accept it, so he was promoted to the title of County Duke and granted the title of 1,800 households.
The emperor was about to appoint him as a minister in power, but he died in the second year of Taishi.
The emperor wore plain clothes to express his condolences, and gave the coffin a set of court clothes, a set of clothes, 300,000 yuan, 100 pieces of cloth, and a hectare of land for burial, with the title of Yuan.
The next year, the emperor recalled Wang Shen's achievements and issued an edict: "To praise the past merits is to respect the virtuous and spread the ancient teachings, to pay careful attention to the dead and commemorate the ancestors, to promote morality and promote religion."
The late Sanqi Changshi, Hussar General, and Prince Boling Yuangong Wang Shen followed etiquette and lived in the right path. He was loyal, honest and pure. He studied ancient books carefully and was knowledgeable.
He held the official position of Chang Bonayan successively in the imperial court, taking on the important task of governing a party when going abroad, making plans internally, and showing his power and strategies externally.
When establishing a country and setting up official positions, he first ascends to the position of three ministers and assistant ministers, and is also responsible for the internal affairs of the court and issuing the emperor's orders. This is indeed a meritorious service to assist the country.
He gave it to Wang Shen Sikong Gong posthumously to express his favor to the past and make him immortal after death.
In addition, because of his assistant's meritorious service, he should have been knighted by the Duke, but he firmly refused, praising his modest character and not changing his ambition.
The officials of the county can be allowed to attend the funeral.
Wang Chen was always honest and frugal, and did not own any property.
He sent the soldiers he led to build fifty houses.
He was succeeded by his son Wang Jun.
Later, Wang Shen's wife Xun passed away and they were to be buried together. Wang Shen's coffin had decayed, so they were given a new coffin for the nobles.
During the Xianning period, Wang Shen was granted the title of Duke.
Wang Jun's courtesy name is Peng Zu.
The mother's surname was Tang, and she was the daughter of an innocent family. Her family was poor. She went to Wang Shen's house, so she gave birth to Wang Jun. Wang Chen despised him at first.
When Wang Jun was fifteen years old, Wang Chen passed away without a son. His relatives jointly made Wang Jun his heir, and he was worshiped as Prince Consort.
In the early years of Taikang, he and all the princes went to the feudal country.
Three years later, he returned to Beijing to see him and was appointed as the minister of foreign cavalry.
In the early years of Yuankang, he was transferred to Yuanwai Changshi, and was promoted to Yue Cavalry School Lieutenant and General of the Right Army.
He left the capital to serve as the governor of Hanoi, but because the county prince could not be appointed as the governor, he was transferred to General Dong Zhonglang to guard Xuchang.
When Prince Minhuai was imprisoned in Xuchang, Wang Jun followed Empress Jia's will and killed the prince together with Sun Lu of Huangmen.
He was promoted to general of Ningbei and governor of Qingzhou.
Soon he was appointed as General Ningshuo, Chijie, and Commander-in-Chief of Youzhou's military affairs.

summary:
summary line 2: Wang Chen was promoted to General Zhenglu and Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs north of the Yangtze River. When the fifth-class title system was established, he was granted the title of Marquis of Boling. During the pacification of Shu, Wu forces threatened the border, but Wang Chen defended well, causing the enemy to retreat. He was later transferred to General Zhennan. After Emperor Wu ascended the throne, Wang Chen became imperial censor and abided by the Shangshu order. Known for his talent and fame, he consulted with Yang Hu, Xun Xu, Pei Xiu, and Jia Chong on state affairs. For his role in the abdication, he was promoted to general of hussars and granted the title of Duke of Boling County, which he initially refused but later accepted with 1,800 households. He died in the second year of Taishi, and the emperor mourned him with lavish gifts. Posthumously, he was given the title of Sikong Gong. Wang Chen was always honest and frugal, leaving no property. His son Wang Jun succeeded him.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
于时朝廷昏乱，盗贼蜂起，浚为自安之计，结好夷狄，以女妻鲜卑务勿尘，又以一女妻苏恕延。
及赵王伦篡位，三王起义兵，浚拥众挟两端，遏绝檄书，使其境内士庶不得赴义，成都王颖欲讨之而未暇也。
伦诛，进号安北将军。
及河间王颙、成都王颖兴兵内向，害长沙王乂，而浚有不平之心。
颖表请幽州刺史石堪为右司马，以右司马和演代堪，密使演杀浚，并其众。
演与乌丸单于审登谋之，于是与浚期游蓟城南清泉水上。
蓟城内西行有二道，演浚各从一道。
演与浚欲合卤簿，因而图之。
值天暴雨，兵器沾湿，不果而还。
单于由是与其种人谋曰： 演图杀浚，事垂克而天卒雨，使不得果，是天助浚也。
违天不祥，我不可久与演同。
乃以谋告浚。
浚密严兵，与单于围演。
演持白幡诣浚降，遂斩之，自领幽州。
大营器械，召务勿尘，率胡晋合二万人，进军讨颖。
以主溥祁弘为前锋，遇颖将石超于平棘，击败之。
浚乘胜遂克鄴城，士众暴掠，死者甚多。
鲜卑大略妇女，浚命敢有挟藏者斩，于是沉于易水者八千人。
黔庶荼毒，自此始也。
浚还蓟，声实益盛。
东海王越将迎大驾，浚遣祁弘率乌丸突骑为先驱。
惠帝旋洛阳，转浚骠骑大将军、都督东夷河北诸军事，领幽州刺史，以燕国增博陵之封。
怀帝即位，以浚为司空，领乌丸校尉，务勿尘为大单于。
浚又表封务勿尘辽西郡公，其别部大飘滑及其弟渴末别部大屠甕等皆为亲晋王。
永嘉中，石勒寇冀州，浚遣鲜卑文鸯讨勒，勒走南阳。
明年，勒复寇冀州，刺史王斌为勒所害，浚又领冀州。
translation: 
At that time, the court was in chaos and thieves were emerging. For his own safety, Wang Jun made friends with Yi Di and married one of his daughters to Xianbei Wu Wuchen and the other to Su Shuyan.
After King Sima Lun of Zhao usurped the throne, the three kings raised troops to protest. Wang Jun led the troops to wait and see, preventing the message from being passed on, so that the people in his territory could not join the rebel army. King Sima Ying of Chengdu wanted to attack Wang Jun but had no time.
King Zhao Sima Lun was executed, and Wang Junjin was named General Anbei.
When Sima Yi, king of Hejian, and Sima Ying, king of Chengdu, attacked Luoyang and killed Sima Yi, king of Changsha, Wang Jun felt indignant.
Sima Ying petitioned Youzhou Governor Shi Kan to serve as You Sima, replaced Shi Kan with You Sima He Yan, and secretly ordered He Yan to kill Wang Jun and annex Wang Jun's army.
Heyan and Wuwan Shanyu Shendeng planned this matter, so they agreed with Wang Jun to go to the clear spring in the south of Jicheng to play.
There are two roads going west in Jicheng, one for He Yan and one for Wang Jun.
He Yan prepared to take the opportunity to strike when he met Wang Jun with the honor guard.
It was raining heavily and all the weapons were wet, so they returned without being able to realize their plan.
Shan Yu therefore plotted with his fellow tribesmen and said: He Yan planned to kill Wang Jun, but when he was about to succeed, it rained and the plan failed to come true. This is God's help to Wang Jun.
Going against God's will is unlucky, and I cannot be complicit with He Yan for a long time.
So he told Wang Jun his plan.
Wang Jun secretly ordered the army to impose martial law, and He Chanyu surrounded He Yan.
He Yan took the white banner and went to Wang Jun's place to surrender, so He Yan was killed and Wang Jun occupied Youzhou himself.
He built equipment on a large scale, summoned Wuchen, and led a total of 20,000 Hu and Jin people to march against Sima Ying.
With Chief Qi Hong as the vanguard, he encountered Sima Ying's general Shi Chao in Pingji and defeated Shi Chao.
Wang Jun took advantage of the victory and captured Yecheng. The soldiers looted and looted brutally, and many people died.
The Xianbei people plundered women wantonly. Wang Jun ordered the beheading of women who dared to hide them, so eight thousand people were thrown into the Yishui River.
The disaster for the people began at this time.
Wang Jun returned to Ji, and his reputation and strength became even stronger.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, will welcome the emperor, and Wang Jun sends Qi Hong to lead Karasuma's cavalry as the vanguard.
Emperor Hui returned to Luoyang, and Wang Jun was transferred to General Hussar, Commander-in-Chief of Shu Yi and Hebei military forces, and governor of Youzhou, using the Yan Kingdom to increase the fiefdom of Boling.
Emperor Huai ascended the throne and appointed Wang Jun as Sikong and Wuwan Xiaowei, and Wu Wuchen as the Great Chanyu.
Wang Jun also petitioned to grant Wu Wuchen the title of Duke of Western Liaoning, and his subordinate Da Piaohua and his younger brother Kemo's subordinate Datu Weng and others as pro-Jin kings.
During the Yongjia period, Shi Le invaded Jizhou. Wang Jun sent the Xianbei people Wenyang to conquer Shi Le, but Shi Le fled to Nanyang.
The next year, Shi Le invaded Jizhou again, and the governor Wang Bin was killed by Shile. Wang Jun also took charge of Jizhou.

summary:
summary line 3: Wang Jun, courtesy name Peng Zu, was born to a poor mother from a common family. Initially despised by his father, he became heir at fifteen after Wang Chen's death. He served as Prince Consort and later held various military and civil posts. During the chaos of the court, he allied with Yi Di, marrying his daughters to Xianbei leaders for safety. After King Sima Lun of Zhao usurped the throne, Wang Jun led troops to wait and see. He later killed He Yan, who plotted against him, and occupied Youzhou. He built equipment and led 20,000 Hu and Jin troops against Sima Ying, defeating his general and capturing Yecheng, where his soldiers looted brutally. Wang Jun's power grew, and he was promoted to General Hussar and Commander-in-Chief of Hebei. During the Yongjia period, he fought Shi Le and Liu Kun, but his harsh rule led to defections. He planned to become emperor based on prophecies, killing those who advised against it. Shi Le pretended to surrender, and Wang Jun, trusting him, was captured and killed. Wang Jun had no sons, and his title passed to his nephew Daosu.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
幼为姊婿陈群所赏。
性至孝，总角知名，博学洽闻，理思周密。
魏时以父勋除中郎。
宣帝辅政，见顗奇之，曰： 荀令君之子也。
擢拜散骑侍郎，累迁侍中。
为魏少帝执经，拜骑都尉，赐爵关内侯。
难钟会《易》无互体，又与扶风王骏论仁孝孰先，见称于世。
时曹爽专权，何晏等欲害太常傅嘏，顗营救得免。
及高贵乡公立，顗言于景帝曰： 今上践阼，权道非常，宜速遣使宣德四方，且察外志。
毌丘俭、文钦果不服，举兵反。
顗预讨俭等有功，进爵万岁亭侯，邑四百户。
文帝辅政，迁尚书。
帝征诸葛诞，留顗镇守。
顗甥陈泰卒，顗代泰为仆射，领吏部，四辞而后就职。
顗承泰后，加之淑慎，综核名实，风俗澄正。
咸熙中，迁司空，进爵乡侯。
顗年逾耳顺，孝养蒸蒸，以母忧去职，毁几灭性，海内称之。
文帝奏，宜依汉太傅胡广丧母故事，给司空吉凶导从。
及蜀平，兴复五等，命顗定礼仪。
顗上请羊祜、任恺、庚峻、应贞、孔颢共删改旧文，撰定晋礼。
咸熙初，封临淮侯。
武帝践阼，进爵为公，食邑一千八百户。
又诏曰： 昔禹命九官，契敷五教，所以弘崇王化，示人轨仪也。
朕承洪业，昧于大道，思训五品，以康四海。
侍中、司空顗，明允笃诚，思心通远，翼亮先皇，遂辅朕躬，实有佐命弼导之勋。
宜掌教典，以隆时雍。
其以顗为司徒。
寻加侍中，迁太尉、都督城外牙门诸军事，置司马亲兵百人。
顷之，又诏曰： 侍中、太尉顗，温恭忠允，至行纯备，博古洽闻，耆艾不殆。
其以公行太子太傅，侍中、太尉如故。
时以《正德》、《大豫》雅颂未合，命顗定乐。
事未终，以泰始十年薨。
帝为举哀，皇太子临丧，二宫赙赠，礼秩有加。
诏曰： 侍中、太尉、行太子太傅、临淮公顗，清纯体道，忠允立朝，历司外内，茂绩既崇，训傅东宫，徽猷弘著，可谓行归于周，有始有卒者矣。
translation: 
When he was young, he was appreciated by his brother-in-law Chen Qun.
He was extremely filial by nature, and was famous at an early age, with extensive knowledge and thoughtful thinking.
Wei Shi was appointed Zhonglang because of his father's meritorious service.
Emperor Xuan assisted in the government affairs and was surprised to see Xun Hao and said, "He is really Xun Lingjun's son."
He was promoted to the rank of Sanqi Shilang, and then promoted to the rank of Shizhong.
He taught classics to the young emperor of Wei. He was worshiped as a cavalry captain and given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
He criticized Zhong Huizhi for not being consistent in the Book of Changes, and he discussed with Sima Jun, the king of Fufeng, about who should be the leader in benevolence and filial piety, which was praised by the world.
At that time, Cao Shuang had sole power. He Yan and others wanted to harm Taichang Fu Gu, but Xun Hao rescued him and saved him from danger.
When Gao Guixiang Gong came to the throne, Xunjie said to Emperor Jing: Now that the emperor has ascended the throne, the way to obtain the monarchy is unusual. We should quickly send people to various places to declare benevolence and observe the trends in the outside world.
His mothers Qiu Jian and Wen Qin were indeed dissatisfied and sent troops to rebel.
Xunjie participated in the expedition against Ceqiu Jian and others and made meritorious service. He was promoted to the title of Marquis of Wansuiting and was granted the title of 400 households.
When Emperor Wen assisted in government affairs, he was promoted to Shangshu.
Emperor Wen conquered Zhuge Dan and left Xunjie to guard him.
Xunjie's nephew Chen Tai died. Xunjie replaced Chen Tai as a servant and was also in charge of the staff. He resigned four times and then took office.
Xun Hao succeeded Chen Tai and became more respectful and prudent, comprehensively assessed reputation and reality, and clarified customs.
During the reign of Xianxi, he was promoted to Sikong and became a rural marquis.
Xunjie was over sixty years old. He was filial and devoted. He resigned from his post because of his mother's funeral. He was so sad that he almost lost his mind. He was praised throughout the country.
Emperor Wen ordered that Sikong should be given a funeral ceremonial entourage in accordance with the precedent of the Han Dynasty Fu Guang's funeral for his mother.
After Shu was pacified, five levels of nobility were established, and Xun Zhuan was ordered to formulate etiquette.
Xun Yun Shangshu asked Yang Hu, Ren Kai, Yu Jun, Ying Zhen, and Kong Hao to jointly delete the old regulations and compile the Jin etiquette.
In the early years of Xianxi's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Linhuai.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne, was promoted to the title of Duke, and had 1,800 households living in the city.
He also went to Shao and said: In the past, Yu appointed nine officials to carry out the five religions, to uphold the king's teachings and show the laws and etiquette.
I accepted the great cause, but I was ignorant of the Dao. I wanted to teach the people the five ethics to make the world peaceful.
Attendant and Sikong Xunzhuan, fair, honest and ambitious, assisted the late emperor and me. He really has the merit of assisting and tutoring the emperor.
He should be in charge of enlightenment rituals to make the world more stable and peaceful.
Xunjie was appointed Situ.
Soon he was appointed as a sergeant, and was promoted to Taiwei and Commander-in-Chief of all the military affairs in Yamen outside the city. He was assigned a hundred personal soldiers of Sima.
Soon after, another edict was issued saying: "Shi Zhong, Taiwei Xun Pin, is gentle, respectful, loyal and fair, has pure conduct, is knowledgeable about ancient affairs and is knowledgeable, and is not slacking off despite his advanced age."
Let him act as the Crown Prince and Tutor, and his official positions of Shizhong and Taiwei will remain.
At that time, because the elegant songs in "Zhengde" and "Dayu" did not match, Xunhao was ordered to settle the music.
Before the matter was over, he died in the tenth year of Taishi.
The emperor mourned for him, the crown prince attended the funeral in person, and the emperor and empress presented items for the funeral furnace. The etiquette level exceeded the norm.
The edict said: "Servants, Taiwei, Princes and Tutors, Linhuai Gong Xun Chan, have pure conduct and follow morality, are honest and fair in government, hold various internal and external official positions, have outstanding achievements, teach the prince, and promote good and beautiful ways. They can be said to be people with perfect behavior, beginning and ending."

summary:
summary line 4: Xunjie, courtesy name Jingqian, was from Yingchuan and the sixth son of Wei Taiwei Xun You. Known for filial piety and extensive knowledge, he served as Zhonglang and later Sanqi Shilang. He taught the young emperor of Wei and was granted the title of Marquis of Guannei. He rescued Fu Gu from Cao Shuang's harm and advised Emperor Jing to declare benevolence after Gao Guixiang Gong's ascension. He participated in suppressing rebellions and was promoted to Marquis of Wansuiting. Under Emperor Wen, he became Shangshu and later Sikong. He was filial, resigning for his mother's funeral, and was praised nationwide. He formulated Jin etiquette and was promoted to Duke of Linhuai. He served as Crown Prince Tutor and Taiwei, settling music before dying in the tenth year of Taishi. The emperor mourned him greatly. Xunjie understood the "Three Rites" but lacked upright moral integrity, catering to Xun Xu and Jia Chong. He had no sons, and his title passed to his grandnephew Xun Hui.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
时官骑路遗求为刺客入蜀，勖言于帝曰： 明公以至公宰天下，宜杖正义以伐违贰。
而名以刺客除贼，非所谓刑于四海，以德服远也。
帝称善。
及钟会谋反，审问未至，而外人先告之。
帝待会素厚，未之信也。
勖曰： 会虽受恩，然其性未可许以见得思义，不可不速为之备。
帝即出镇长安，主簿郭奕、参军王深以勖是会从甥，少长舅氏，劝帝斥出之。
帝不纳，而使勖陪乘，待之如初。
先是，勖启 伐蜀，宜以卫瓘为监军 。
及蜀中乱，赖瓘以济。
会平，还洛，与裴秀、羊祜共管机密。
时将发使聘吴，并遣当时文士作书与孙皓，帝用勖所作。
皓既报命和亲，帝谓勖曰： 君前作书，使吴思顺，胜十万之众也。
帝即晋王位，以勖为侍中，封安阳子，邑千户。
武帝受禅，改封济北郡公。
勖以羊祜让，乃固辞为侯。
拜中书监，加侍中，领著作，与贾充共定律令。
充将镇关右也，勖谓冯紞曰： 贾公远放，吾等失势。
太子婚尚未定，若使充女得为妃，则不留而自停矣。
勖与紞伺帝间并称 充女才色绝世，若纳东宫，必能辅佐君子，有《关雎》后妃之德。
遂成婚。
当时甚为正直者所疾，而获佞媚之讥焉。
久之，进位光禄大夫。
既掌乐事，又修律吕，并行于世。
初，勖于路逢赵贾人牛铎，识其声。
及掌乐，音韵未调，乃曰： 得赵之牛铎则谐矣。
遂下郡国，悉送牛铎，果得谐者。
又尝在帝坐进饭，谓在坐人曰： 此是劳薪所炊。
咸未之信。
帝遣问膳夫，乃云： 实用故车脚。
举世伏其明识。
俄领秘书监，与中书令张华依刘向《别录》，整理记籍。
又立书博士，置弟子教习，以钟、胡为法。
咸宁初，与石苞等并为佐命功臣，列于铭飨。
及王浚表请伐吴，勖与贾充固谏不可，帝不从，而吴果灭。
以专典诏命，论功封子一人为亭侯，邑一千户，赐绢千匹。
又封孙显为颍阳亭侯。
及得汲郡冢中古文竹书，诏勖撰次之，以为《中经》，列在秘书。
时议遣王公之国，帝以问勖，勖对曰： 诸王公已为都督，而使之国，则废方任。
translation: 
At that time, the official cavalry sent a request to enter the Shu Kingdom as an assassin. Gou Xu said to Emperor Wen: Duke Ming rules the world by justice, and he should rely on justice to defeat disobedience.
If you rely on assassins to eliminate enemies, you will not be the so-called model of the world. Relying on virtue to make distant people surrender.
Emperor Wen thought it was right.
When Zhong Hui rebelled, the details had not yet been discovered, and outsiders came to report first.
Emperor Wen had always been kind to Zhong Hui and did not believe that he would rebel.
Xun Xu said: Although Zhong Hui was favored, he was not necessarily loyal by nature, so he had to take precautions.
Emperor Wen immediately went out to guard Chang'an. Guo Yi, the chief secretary, and Wang Shen, who joined the army, persuaded Emperor Wen to repel Xun Xu because he was Zhong Hui's nephew and uncle. He grew up in his uncle's family when he was young.
Emperor Wen did not accept it, but asked Xun Xu to accompany him and treated him as before.
Before this, Xun Xu stated that in order to conquer Shu, Wei Xuan should be appointed as the supervisor of the army.
When the war broke out in Shu, it was all up to Wei Xuan to maintain it.
After the Zhonghui rebellion was put down, he returned to Luoyang and took charge of important departments together with Pei Xiu and Yang Rong.
At that time, an envoy was sent to visit the State of Wu, and the literati at that time were asked to write documents to Sun Hao. Emperor Wen chose the document written by Xun Xu.
Sun Hao replied that he agreed to the marriage, and Emperor Wen said to Xun Xu: The documents you wrote before made Wu Guo want to submit, which is better than a hundred thousand troops.
Emperor Wen ascended the throne of Jin and appointed Xunxu as his minister. He was granted the title of Anyangzi and was granted a settlement of 1,000 households.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and was granted the title of Duke of Jibei County.
Xun Xu resolutely refused and became a marquis because of Yang Hu's modesty.
The official worship was Zhongshu Supervisor, and he was added as a servant. He was also in charge of writings and jointly formulated laws and regulations with Jia Chong.
Jia Chong was about to guard Guanyou, and Xun Xu said to Feng Shou: "If you buy a public servant, you will be sent far away, and we will lose our power."
The prince's marriage has not yet been decided. If Maichong's daughter is made the concubine, Jia Chong will not be able to leave without having to persuade her to stay.
Xun Xu and Feng You both said when the emperor was free that Maichong's daughter would have unparalleled beauty. If she married into the East Palace, she would be able to assist the prince and have the virtues of the concubine in "Guan Ju".
So they got married.
At that time, he was very disgusted by honest people and was ridiculed as flattery.
After a long time, he was promoted to Doctor Guanglu.
After taking charge of rituals and music, he also revised the music rhythm, which became popular in the world.
At first, Gou Xu heard the cow bell from Merchant Zhao on the road. Memorized the sound.
When he was in charge of ritual music and the music was not harmonious, he said: "It will be harmonious if I get Zhao's cowbell."
So he ordered all counties and counties to send cow bells, and the music was indeed harmonious.
He once had a meal in front of the emperor's throne and said to the people present: "This meal is cooked with the feet of a cart."
Don't believe what he said.
The emperor sent a human chef, who replied: "It is indeed an old cart wheel."
Everyone admired his clarity.
Soon he also served as secretary-supervisor, and together with Zhongshu ordered Zhang Hua to compile bookkeeping classics according to Liu Xiang's "Bielu".
He also established a doctor of books and arranged for his disciples to teach and study, following the example of Zhong Yao and Hu Zhao.
In the early years of Xianning, he, together with Shi Bao and others, were among the auxiliary officials who carved stones.
When Wang Jun petitioned to attack Wu, Xunxu and Jia Chong resolutely dissuaded him, but the emperor did not listen, and the kingdom of Wu was indeed reduced.
Because Xun Xu was in charge of edicts, he made one of his sons the Marquis of Ting based on his merits, gave him a thousand households in the city, and granted him a thousand bolts of silk.
He also named his grandson Xunxian the Marquis of Yingyang Ting.
After obtaining the ancient asparagus script from Jijun's tomb, he issued an order to Xunxu to compile it as the "Zhongjing" and include it in the palace collection.
At that time, there was a discussion about sending princes to enfeoff the country. The emperor asked Xun Xu, and Xun Xu replied: All the princes are already governors, and if they are allowed to enfeoff the country, they will abandon the post of local governor.

summary:
summary line 5: Xun Xu, courtesy name Gongzeng, was from Yingyin, Yingchuan, and the great-grandson of Han Sikong Xun Shuang. Orphaned young, he was raised by his uncle. He was intelligent and wrote articles in his teens. He served under Cao Shuang and later became Zhongshu Tongshilang. After Cao Shuang's death, he alone attended the funeral, earning respect. He served as Anyang Order and later Tingweizheng, participating in Emperor Wen's military affairs. He advised against assassins and warned of Zhong Hui's rebellion. He wrote documents to Sun Hao of Wu, which were praised as better than a hundred thousand troops. After Emperor Wu's abdication, he was granted the title of Duke of Jibei County but refused, becoming a marquis. He served as Zhongshu Supervisor and jointly formulated laws with Jia Chong. He helped secure Jia Chong's daughter as crown prince's concubine, drawing criticism. He revised music rhythms and compiled classics. He opposed the attack on Wu but was overruled. He advised against sending princes to feudal states and discussed reducing officials. He praised the prince's character, leading to respect for He Jiao and disdain for him. He died in the tenth year of Taikang, with ten sons, including Xun Ji, Xun Fan, and Xun Zu. Xun Xu's descendants continued his legacy, with Xun Sui and Xun He crossing the river eastward during the chaos.

Chunk 15: 
original: 
奕重驳，以为： 《阳秋》之末，文武之道将坠于地，新有子朝之乱，于时诸侯逋替，莫肯率职。
宋之于周，实有列国之权。
且同巳勤王而主之者晋，客而辞役，责之可也。
今之陈留，无列国之势，此之作否，何益有无！
臣以为宜除，于国职为全。
诏从之。
时又通议元会日帝应敬司徒王导不。
博士郭熙、杜援等以为礼无拜臣之文，谓宜除敬。
侍中冯怀议曰： 天子修礼，莫盛于辟雍。
当尔之日，犹拜三老，况今先帝师傅。
谓宜尽敬。
事下门下，奕议曰： 三朝之首，宜明君臣之体，则不应敬。
若他日小会，自可尽礼。
又至尊与公书手诏则曰 顿首言 ，中书为诏则云 敬问 ，散骑优册则曰： 制命 。今诏文尚异，况大会之与小会，理岂得同！
诏从之。
咸和七年卒，追赠太仆，谥曰定。
冯紞，字少胄，安平人也。
祖浮，魏司隶校尉。
父员，汲郡太守。
紞少博涉经史，识悟机辩。
历仕为魏郡太守，转步兵校尉，徙越骑。
得幸于武帝，稍迁左卫将军。
承颜悦色，宠爱日隆。贾充、荀勖并与之亲善。
充女之为皇太子妃也，紞有力焉。
及妃之将废，紞、勖干没救请，故得不废。
伐吴之役，紞领汝南太守，以郡兵随王浚入秣陵。
迁御史中丞，转侍中。
帝病笃得愈，紞与勖见朝野之望，属在齐王攸。攸素薄勖。
勖以太子愚劣，恐攸得立，有害于己，乃使紞言于帝曰： 陛下前者疾若不差，太子其废矣。
translation: 
Gou Yi retorted again, thinking: At the end of the Spring and Autumn Period, the moral integrity of King Wen and King Wu was about to be corrupted, and there was also rebellion in the Zi Dynasty. At that time, the princes were fighting in chaos, and no one was willing to abide by their duties.
For Zhou, the Song Dynasty actually had the power of other countries.
Moreover, the Song Dynasty followed the Jin Dynasty under King Qin and made Jin the leader of the alliance. It was okay to criticize the Song Dynasty and refuse to work as a guest.
Today's King Chenliu does not have the power of other countries, so what is the benefit of asking him to send laborers?
I think it should be exempted, which would be perfect for state power.
Shaoshu obeyed him.
At that time, they discussed together whether the emperor should pay respect to Situ Wangdao on the day of the New Year's Day meeting.
Doctors Guo Xi, Du Yuan and others believed that there was no record of emperors paying homage to their ministers in the etiquette, and they said that salutes should be exempted.
Feng Huai, the attendant, commented: "The Emperor establishes etiquette, and there is no grander etiquette than the founding etiquette of a school."
On that day, I have to pay homage to the three elders, not to mention the late emperor’s master.
I think it should be done with the utmost respect.
When the matter was handed over to the provincial government, Xun Yi discussed: "The court meeting on New Year's Day should clarify the etiquette of the emperor and his ministers, so the emperor should not respect his ministers."
If it is a court meeting on other days, you can naturally be polite.
In addition, when the emperor gave the edict to the Duke, he said "pause and say something", the edict in Zhongshu said "respectfully ask", and when the Sanqi was registered, he said "command the order". Nowadays, there are differences in the writing of edicts, not to mention that how can a large court meeting and a small court meeting be the same?
Xia Shao obeyed him.
When Xianhe died in the seventh year, he was given a posthumous gift to the imperial servant, and his name was Mi.
Feng Squid, courtesy name Shaozhou, was born in Anping.
His grandfather, Feng Fu, was the school captain of Wei Sili.
His father, Feng Yuan, was the prefect of Ji County.
Feng You read a lot of classics and history books when he was young, and he was smart and eloquent.
He successively served as the prefect of Wei County, transferred to the infantry school captain, and was transferred to Yueqi.
He was highly regarded by Emperor Wu and was soon promoted to General Zuowei.
He was able to please the emperor obediently and favored him greatly. Both Jia Chong and Xun Xu were friendly to him.
Jia Chong's daughter became the dowager, and Feng Shou helped in this matter.
When Concubine Jia was about to be deposed, Feng Shou and Xun Xu tried their best to save her, so she was not deposed.
During the battle against Wu, Feng You, who was also the prefect of Runan, led the county soldiers to follow Wang Jun into Moling.
He was promoted to censor Zhongcheng and transferred to Shizhong.
After the emperor recovered from a serious illness, Feng You and Xun Xu's desire to see each other inside and outside the court rested on Qi King Sima You. Sima You had always looked down on Xun Xu.
Because the prince was stupid, Xun Xu was afraid that Sima You would succeed to the throne, which would be harmful to him, so he asked Feng Shou to tell the emperor: If your majesty has not recovered from his illness some time ago, the prince may be deposed.

summary:
summary line 6: Feng You, courtesy name Shaozhou, was from Anping. He read extensively and was eloquent. He served as prefect of Wei County and later General Zuowei, favored by Emperor Wu. He befriended Jia Chong and Xun Xu, helping Jia Chong's daughter become dowager. He opposed the attack on Wu but later followed Wang Jun into Moling. He advised the emperor to send Qi King Sima You to his feudal state, leading to Sima You's death. He hated Zhang Hua and prevented his promotion. He died in the seventh year of Taikang, leaving two sons, Feng Bo and Feng Xiong. The historian comments that Wang Chen's disloyalty and Wang Jun's violence brought disaster, while Xunjie and Xun Xu, despite their talents, contributed to court strife. Feng You's flattery led to Sima You's death and Jia's rise, causing endless civil unrest.

