Chunk 0: 
original: 
宗夬，字明扬，南阳涅阳人也，世居江陵。
祖炳，宋时征太子庶子不就，有高名。
父繁，西中郎谘议参军。
夬少勤学，有局干。
弱冠，举郢州秀才，历临川王常侍、骠骑行参军。
齐司徒竟陵王集学士于西邸，并见图画，夬亦预焉。
永明中，与魏和亲，敕夬与尚书殿中郎任昉同接魏使，皆时选也。
武帝嫡孙南郡王居西州，以夬管书记，夬既以笔札被知，亦以贞正见许，故任焉。
俄而文惠太子薨，王为皇太孙，夬仍管书记。
及太孙即位，多失德，夬颇自疏，得为秣陵令，迁尚书都官郎。
隆昌末，少帝见诛，宠旧多罹其祸，惟夬及傅昭以清正免。
明帝即位，以夬为郢州治中，有名称职，以父老去官还乡里。
南康王为荆州刺史，引为别驾。
义师起，迁西中郎谘议参军，别驾如故。
时西土位望，惟夬与同郡乐蔼、刘坦为州人所推信，故领军将军萧颖胄深相委仗，每事谘焉。
高祖师发雍州，颖胄遣夬出自杨口，面禀经略，并护送军资，高祖甚礼之。
中兴初，迁御史中丞，以父忧去职。
起为冠军将军、卫军长史。
天监元年，迁征虏长史、东海太守，将军如故。
二年，征为太子右卫率。
是冬，迁五兵尚书，参掌大选。
三年，卒，时年四十九。
子曜卿嗣。
夬从弟岳，有名行，州里称之，出于夬右。
仕历尚书库部郎，郢州治中，北中郎录事参军事。
translation: 
Zongyang, named Mingzha, was a native of Nieyang County, Nanyang County, and had lived in Jiangling for generations.
His grandfather's name was Zong Bing, who was recruited by the Southern Song Dynasty as the crown prince and concubine. He did not accept the appointment and had a high reputation.
Zongyang's father, Zongfan, served as Xizhonglang to consult and join the army.
Zongyang was diligent in studying when he was young, and he was measured and talented.
At the age of twenty, he passed the Yingzhou scholar examination, served as a regular attendant of King Lin, and joined the army as a knight.
King Situ Jingling of the Southern Qi Dynasty gathered the scholars to the West Residence and painted portraits of them, including Zong Yang.
During the Yongming Dynasty, Southern Qi and Wei made peace. The emperor ordered Zong Yang and Ren Fang, the lieutenant of the Shangshu Palace, to receive the Wei envoys. They were all talents selected at that time.
Prince Nanjun, the direct grandson of Emperor Wu of Qi, lived in Xizhou. He asked Zong Yang to be in charge of the secretary. Zong Yang was already known by everyone for his good calligraphy and was praised for his loyalty and integrity, so he made this appointment.
Soon, Prince Wenhui passed away, and Prince Nanjun became the grandson of the emperor. Zongyang was still in charge of the secretary.
After the emperor's grandson ascended the throne and became emperor, Zongyang voluntarily distanced himself from him because of his many failings. He was appointed magistrate of Moling County and moved to Shangshu Duguanlang.
In the last years of Longchang, the Young Emperor was executed, and most of the old officials who had been favored in the past suffered disaster. Only Zong Yang and Fu Zhao were spared from disaster because of their integrity.
After Emperor Ming came to the throne, he appointed Zong Yang to govern Yingzhou. He was famous for his competent work. Later, he resigned and returned to his hometown because his father was old.
When the King of Nankang was the governor of Jingzhou, he regarded Zongyang as his best friend.
After Liang Gaozu rebelled against the division, Zong Yang moved to Xizhonglang to consult and join the army, but the post of Biejia remained.
At that time, in terms of status and reputation in the western countries, only Zong Yang and fellow countrymen Le Ai and Liu Tan were highly respected and trusted by the people of the state. Therefore, the leading general Xiao Yingzhou trusted and relied on him very much and consulted him on everything.
Gaozu's righteous army set out from Yongzhou, and Yingzhou sent Zongyang out from Yang to report the strategy in person and escort military supplies. Gaozu was very polite to him.
In the early years of the Zhongxing Dynasty, Zong Yang moved to the post of Censor Zhongcheng, but resigned due to the death of his father.
When the period of mourning expires, he will be promoted to the title of Champion General and Chief of the Guards.
In the first year of Tianjian, Zong Yang was moved to the post of Chief of the Zhengqi and Grand Administrator of Shuhai County, but his duties as general remained as before.
In the second year, he was called to serve as the crown prince's right guard.
In the winter of this year, Zong Yang moved to the post of Minister of the Fifth Army and participated in the general election of the officials in charge.
Three years later, Zong Yang died at the age of forty-nine.
His son Zong Yaoqing succeeded him.
Zongyang's cousin Zongyue had a good reputation and good behavior. People in the state praised him and said he was more famous than Zongyang.
He served as Shangshu Kubu Lang, governed Yingzhou, and Beizhong Lang recorded affairs and participated in the military.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
刘坦，字德度，南阳安众人也，晋镇东将军乔之七世孙。
坦少为从兄虬所知。
齐建元初，为南郡王国常侍，寻补孱陵令，迁南中郎录事参军，所居以干济称。
南康王为荆州刺史，坦为西中郎中兵参军，领长流。
义师起，迁谘议参军。
时辅国将军杨公则为湘州刺史，帅师赴夏口，西朝议行州事者，坦谓众曰： 湘境人情，易扰难信。
若专用武士，则百姓畏侵渔；若遣文人，则威略不振。
必欲镇静一州城，军民足食，则无逾老臣。
先零之役，窃以自许。
遂从之。
乃除辅国长史、长沙太守，行湘州事。
坦尝在湘州，多旧恩，道迎者甚众。
下车简选堪事吏，分诣十郡，悉发人丁，运租米三十余万斛，致之义师，资粮用给。
时东昏遣安成太守刘希祖破西台所选太守范僧简于平都，希祖移檄湘部，于是始兴内史王僧粲应之。
邵陵人逐其内史褚洊，永阳人周晖起兵攻始安郡，并应僧粲。
桂阳人邵昙弄、邓道介报复私仇，因合党亦同焉。
僧粲自号平西将军、湘州刺史，以永阳人周舒为谋主，师于建宁。
自是湘部诸郡，悉皆蜂起；惟临湘、湘阴、浏阳、罗四县犹全。
州人咸欲泛舟逃走，坦悉聚船焚之，遣将尹法略距僧粲，相持未决。
前湘州镇军钟玄绍潜谋应僧粲，要结士庶数百人，皆连名定计，刻日反州城。
坦闻其谋，伪为不知，因理讼至夜，而城门遂不闭，以疑之。
玄绍未及发，明旦诣坦问其故。
坦久留与语，密遣亲兵收其家书。
translation: 
Liu Tan, courtesy name Dedu, was a native of Anzhong County, Nanyang County, and the seventh-generation grandson of General Liu Qiao of the Jin Dynasty.
Liu Tan was known to his cousin Liu Qiu when he was a boy.
In the early years of the Qi Dynasty in the Southern Dynasty, Liu Tan became the official servant of the Nanjun King. Soon after, he was appointed as the magistrate of Xiaoling County, and moved to Nanzhonglang to record affairs and join the army. He was famous for his ability in handling affairs in the palace positions he held.
When King Nankang was the governor of Jingzhou, Liu Tan appointed his Xizhong Langzhong soldiers to join the army and also served as Changliu.
After the rise of Emperor Gaozu's righteous army, Liu Tan moved to consult and join the army.
At that time, Yang Gongze, the general of the auxiliary state, was appointed as the governor of Xiangzhou. He led his troops to Xiakou and discussed with the people in charge of state affairs in the western countries. Xingtan said to them: The people in Yiye are easy to be harassed and hard to trust.
If warriors are sent there, the people will be afraid of being embezzled and plundered; if literati are sent there, the prestige will not be enough.
If it is necessary to stabilize this state and city so that the soldiers and civilians have enough food and clothing, then the best candidate is the veteran minister.
After the Battle of Xianwen, I secretly thought that I was still competent.
So the birth-bearer obeyed his words.
He was granted the title of Assistant to the Chief of History of the State and Governor of Changsha to manage nearby affairs.
Xing Dan used to work in the wing industry and had many old friends. Many of them came to welcome Liu Tan.
After Su Pi took office, he selected people who were qualified to do the work as officials and went to ten counties respectively to mobilize all the people. More than 300,000 hu of rice were transported to the rebel troops as military supplies.
At that time, Marquis Shuhun sent Liu Xizu, the governor of Ancheng County, to defeat Fan Sengjian, the governor selected by Xitai, in Pingdu. Liu Xizu issued a letter of war to Xiangzhou, so Wang Tanken, the king of Maggot Castle, responded.
The Wulu people expelled their internal historian Chu Rong, and the Yongyang people Zhou Hui raised troops to attack Shi'an Qi. They all came to respond to Wang Sengsai.
Gua fell into a trap, and Deng Daoli also participated in it in order to avenge himself.
Wang Sencan himself was known as the General of Pingxi and the Governor of Xiangzhou. He appointed Zhou Shu from Yongyang as the mastermind and raised an army in Naipo.
From then on, all the counties within the fishery territory swarmed into existence; only four counties, Zuobao, Laobi, Subi and Luo, were still intact.
The Lao people wanted to escape by boat, but Liu Tan gathered all the boats and set them on fire. He sent General Yin Falue to resist Wang Sencan, and the two armies were in a stalemate.
Zhong Baoti, the commander of Qianyi Town, secretly formulated a plan to respond to Wang Sencan. He invited hundreds of scholars and common people to formulate a plan and agreed on a date to rebel against the city.
Liu Tan heard about their plot, but pretended not to know. He deliberately handled the case until late at night, and the city gate was not closed because of this, deliberately confusing them.
Zhong Xuanshao had not launched a rebellion yet, so he went to Xingtananaguo the next day to ask why the city gate was not closed.
While Liu Dan stayed with him for a long talk, he secretly sent his trusted soldiers to Zhong Baoqi's home to search for letters.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
玄绍在坐未起，而收兵已报具得其文书本末，玄绍即首伏，于坐斩之。
焚其文书，其余党悉无所问，众愧且服，州部遂安。
法略与僧粲相持累月，建康城平，公则还州，群贼始散。
天监初，论功封荔浦县子，邑三百户。
迁平西司马、新兴太守。
天监三年，迁西中郎长史，卒，时年六十二。
子泉嗣。
乐蔼，字蔚远，南阳淯阳人，晋尚书令广之六世孙，世居江陵。
其舅雍州刺史宗悫，尝陈器物，试诸甥侄。
蔼时尚幼，而所取惟书，悫由此奇之。
又取史传各一卷授蔼等，使读毕，言所记。
蔼略读具举，悫益善之。
宋建平王景素为荆州刺史，辟为主簿。
景素为南徐州，复为征北刑狱参军，迁龙阳相。
以父忧去职，吏民诣州请之，葬讫起焉。
时齐豫章王嶷为武陵太守，雅善蔼为政，及嶷为荆州刺史，以蔼为骠骑行参军、领州主簿，参知州事。
嶷尝问蔼风土旧俗，城隍基寺，山川险易，蔼随问立对，若按图牒，嶷益重焉。
州人嫉之，或谮蔼廨门如市，嶷遣觇之，方见蔼闭阁读书。
嶷还都，以蔼为太尉刑狱参军，典书记，迁枝江令。
还为大司马中兵参军，转署记室。
永明八年，荆州刺史巴东王子响称兵反，既败，焚烧府舍，官曹文书，一时荡尽。
武帝引见蔼，问以西事，蔼上对详敏，帝悦焉。
用为荆州治中，敕付以修复府州事。
translation: 
Zhong Shiti was sitting and talking in Xipi's corner. Before he got up, the soldiers sent out had come back and reported how they had obtained Xuanchi's documents. Zhong Xuanti quickly bowed his head and Supi killed him on his seat.
Xingtan burned the document, and the rest of the party ignored it. Everyone felt ashamed and obeyed Liu Tan, and the territory was peaceful.
After several months of confrontation between Yin Falue and Wang Sengken, Jianchenqiu was pacified, Renzhou returned to the fishing industry, and the bandits began to disperse.
In the early years of Tianjian, Xi Xie was awarded the title of Lord of Yiqiu Shu due to his meritorious service, and was granted a residence of 300 households.
He was moved to the post of Sima Pingxi and the prefect of Xinxing County.
In the third year of Tianjian, he moved to Xizhonglang Changshi and died at the age of sixty-two.
His son Liu Quan succeeded him.
Bimai, whose courtesy name is Lanwei, is the sixth-generation grandson of Bi Tong, a scumbag from Chenmo County. He has lived in Jiangling for generations.
Le Ai's uncle, the governor Zong Maggot, once placed some utensils to test several of his nephews.
Le Ai was still very young at the time, but he only took books, so Samo was surprised by him.
He also took one volume each of history books and biographies and gave them to Bi Yilong and others, asking them to talk about the contents of the books after reading them.
Bi Mai was able to tell all the contents after reading it briefly, and Zong Yin fell in love with him even more.
At that time, King Yi of Yuzhang of Qi was the prefect of Wuling, and he was elegant, kind and kind in his administration. When Yi was appointed as the governor of Jingzhou, Bimai was recruited to be the chief administrator.
When Xingsai was an official in Zhituye, he also called Leai to join the army in Zhengbei Prison and moved to the post of prime minister.
He later resigned due to his father's death. Local officials and people went to Zhouxiang to ask him to bury his father before returning to serve as an official.
At that time, Xiao Yi, the king of Yuzhang in Qi, was the governor of Wuling and Deng. He admired Luan Jie's political performance very much, so when Xiao Yi was appointed as the governor of Jingzhou, he asked Le Ai to ride in the army and serve as the governor of the state, and to know the state affairs.
Xiao Yi once asked Le Ai about the customs, the location of the foundation of the city moat, the dangers of the mountains and rivers, etc. Le Ai opened his mouth and answered as if looking at a map or genealogy. Xiao Yi valued him even more.
Someone in the state was jealous of Le Ai and spread rumors that the front of his official office was as busy as a market. Xiao Yi sent someone to spy secretly and saw Le Ai studying behind closed doors.
When Xiao Yi returned to Kyoto, he made Le Ai serve as a lieutenant in prison, join the army, and be in charge of secretary. He was also appointed magistrate of Zhijiang County.
After returning, he served as Grand Sima Zhongbing and joined the army, taking charge of the office of the department.
In the eighth year of Yongming Dynasty, Prince Badong, the governor of Jingzhou, rebelled. After the failure, he burned the government official buildings. For a time, all the documents and files wrapped in the official offices were burned clean.
Emperor Wu summoned Le Ai and asked him about Liang. Le Ai gave a detailed and quick answer. The emperor was very satisfied with him.
He was appointed to govern Jingzhou and ordered to entrust him with the restoration of the official offices of the prefecture.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
蔼还州，缮修廨署数百区，顷之咸毕，而役不及民。
荆部以为自晋王悦移镇以来，府舍未之有也。
九年，豫章王嶷薨，蔼解官赴丧，率荆、湘二州故吏，建碑墓所。
累迁车骑平西录事参军、步兵校尉，求助戍西归。
南康王为西中郎，以蔼为谘议参军。
义师起，萧颖胄引蔼及宗夬、刘坦，任以经略。
梁台建，迁镇军司马、中书侍郎、尚书左丞。
时营造器甲，舟舰军粮，及朝廷仪宪，悉资蔼焉。
寻迁给事黄门侍郎，左丞如故。
和帝东下，道兼卫尉卿。
天监初，迁骁骑将军、领少府卿；俄迁御史中丞，领本州大中正。
初，蔼发江陵，无故于船得八车辐，如中丞健步避道者，至是果迁焉。
蔼性公强，居宪台甚称职。
时长沙宣武王将葬，而车府忽于库火油络，欲推主者。
蔼曰： 昔晋武库火，张华以为积油万石必然。
今库若有灰，非吏罪也。
既而检之，果有积灰。时称其博物弘恕焉。
二年，出为持节、督广、交、越三州诸军、冠军将军、平越中郎将、广州刺史。
前刺史徐元瑜罢归，道遇始兴人士反，逐内史崔睦舒，因掠元瑜财产。
元瑜走归广州，借兵于蔼，托欲讨贼，而实谋袭蔼。
蔼觉之，诛元瑜。
寻进号征虏将军，卒官。
蔼姊适征士同郡刘虬，亦明识有礼训。
蔼为州，迎姊居官舍，参分禄秩，西土称之。
子法才，字元备，幼与弟法藏俱有美名。
少游京师，造沈约，约见而称之。
齐和帝为相国，召为府参军，镇军萧颖胄辟主簿。
梁台建，除起部郎。
天监二年，蔼出镇岭表，法才留任京邑，迁金部郎，父忧去官。
translation: 
Le Ai returned to Zhoubao and repaired the palace and furnished hundreds of buildings. It was all completed quickly, and no common people were used as laborers.
The people of Jingzhou think that this is a mansion that has never existed since King Chen of Jin moved the state government here.
In the ninth year, Xiao Yi, the king of Yuzhang, passed away. Le Ai resigned from office and went to mourn. He led the old officials of Jing and Xiangzhou to erect a monument in front of the tomb of the king of Yuzhang.
Le Ai later served as a chariot and cavalry Pingxi Lushi, joined the army, and became an infantry captain. He asked for help in guarding the border and returned to the west.
When the King of Nankang was appointed Xizhonglang, he asked Le Ai to serve as a consultant to join the army.
After Liang Gaozu's uprising army rose, Lu Zhancheng led Bimai, Sai Qu, and Liu Tan to join the rebel army and appointed them as managers.
After the founding of the Liang Dynasty, Le Ai moved to the post of Sima of Zhenjun, Minister of Zhongshu, and Zuocheng of Shangshu.
At that time, Le Ai had to be consulted on all matters such as the construction of weapons and armor, ships' rations, and the court's etiquette and constitution.
Soon, Le Ai was transferred to serve as the Minister of Huangmen, while Zuo Cheng remained in his post.
On the way to the east with the emperor, Le Ai concurrently served as Wei Weiqing.
In the early years of Tianjian, Le Ai was moved to the post of General Xiaoqi and concurrently the Minister of the Shaofu. Soon he was moved to the post of Yushi Zhongcheng and concurrently served as the Dazhongzheng of the state.
At the beginning, Le Ai set out from Jiangling and got eight spokes on the ship for no reason. Just like Zhong Cheng walking to avoid the road, he was promoted today.
Le Ai has a fair and strong nature, and is very competent in his official position in Xantai.
At that time, King Xuanwu of Changsha was about to be buried, but the official of the Che Prefecture suddenly lost the silk rope net on the car and was about to hold the officer in charge responsible.
Le Ai said: When the weapons depot of the Jin Dynasty caught fire, Zhang Hua believed that it was inevitably caused by the accumulation of oil and thousands of stones.
Now if it is found that there is ashes wrapped in the warehouse, then it is not the fault of the official Che.
Later, after checking the garage, it was found that there was dust accumulation, so people praised Luan Ai for his broad knowledge and magnanimity.
In the second year, Sheng Yin served as Chijie, governor of the military affairs of Lu Cong, Xuan and Kunye, champion general, Pingyue Zhonglang general, and Guangzhou governor.
Tu Wuyu, the former governor of Luye, resigned from office and returned to his hometown. On the way, he encountered a rebellion by maggots, expelled the internal secretary Cui Mushu, and plundered Xu Yuanyu's property.
Tu Chengyu hurried back to Luye and borrowed troops from Diemai, pretending to attack the bandits, but in fact he wanted to attack Leai.
Le Ai noticed his intention and killed Xu Yuanyu.
Soon, Bi Jinmao was awarded the title of General Zhenglu. He died in office.
Bimai's sister is married to Liu Qiu, a fellow soldier from the same county. She is also a sensible, knowledgeable and polite person.
When Le Ai was a state official, he welcomed his sister to live in the official residence and gave her one-third of his official salary. The people in the west praised this very much.
Bimai's son was named Le Nazuo, with the courtesy name Genbei. When he was young, he and his younger brother Shuang Gai both had a good reputation.
When I was young, I studied in the capital and visited Xuan Mat. I admired Xuan Diao very much after meeting him.
When Emperor He of Qi was the prime minister, he called Luan Jizhang to join the army in the prime minister's mansion, and Xiao Yingzhou, the commander of the army, called him to be the chief secretary.
After the founding of the People's Republic of China, Luan Diezuo was awarded the title of Qibu Lang.
In the second year of Yue, Bimai went out to guard Yinghu. Wazuo stayed in Jingyi and moved to Jinbulang. He resigned because of his father's death.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
服阕，除中书通事舍人，出为本州别驾。
入为通直散骑侍郎，复掌通事，迁尚书右丞。
晋安王为荆州，重除别驾从事史。
复征为尚书右丞，出为招远将军、建康令。
不受俸秩，比去任，将至百金，县曹启输台库。
高祖嘉其清节，曰： 居职若斯，可以为百城表矣。
即日迁太府卿。
寻除南康内史，耻以让俸受名，辞不拜。
俄转云骑将军、少府卿。
出为信武长史、江夏太守。
因被代，表便道还乡。
至家，割宅为寺，栖心物表。
皇太子以法才旧臣，累有优令，召使东下，未及发而卒，时年六十三。
陈吏部尚书姚察曰：萧颖胄起大州之众以会义，当其时，人心未之能悟。
此三人者，楚之镇也。
经营缔构，盖有力焉。
方面之功，坦为多矣；当官任事，蔼则兼之。
咸登宠秩，宜乎！
translation: 
After the mourning period expired, he was awarded the title of Zhongshu Tongshi Shiren and served as the governor of the state.
Later, he was summoned as the Minister of Sanqi in Tongzhi, took charge of Tongshi again, and was moved to the position of Minister Youcheng.
When the King of Jin'an took office, he again granted Fa Cai the title of "Biejia" to engage in history.
Later, he was called to serve as Shangshu Youcheng and served as General Zhaoyi and Mi Ling.
The salary that Die Li did not accept amounted to nearly one hundred gold by the time he resigned. The county magistrate sent this money to the treasury.
Emperor Gaozu commended his father-in-law for his noble integrity and said: "If an official can do this, he can set an example for local officials."
That day Fa Cai was moved to the post of Taizhou Qing.
His mother was soon awarded the title of Internal History of Chen County, but he felt that it was a shame to become famous because of the salary concession, so he refused to accept the appointment.
Soon after he was elected, he was promoted to General Yunqi and Minister of Shaofu.
He also served as the chief historian of Xinwu and the prefect of Jiangxia County.
Since I was replaced, I asked for a way home.
After arriving home, he immediately designated a part of the house as a temple, aloof from the outside world.
Because the crown prince thought that Dieli was an old minister, he repeatedly issued preferential treatment orders and called him to the east to serve as an official. Facai died before he set out at the age of sixty-three.
Yao Cha, the Minister of Chen's Ministry of Civil Affairs in the Southern Dynasty, said: Xiao Yingzhou mobilized the people of the whole state to join the uprising team, but the people at that time could not understand it.
These three people are the deterrent force of Chu Di.
They are all powerful people in the management and establishment of Liang Chaoshang.
In a certain aspect of military and political affairs, Liu Tan had more credit; in terms of official duties, Le Ai was better.
In the end, they all ascended to favored official positions. This is as it should be!


