Chunk 0: 
original: 
统母日法八十一。元始黄钟初九自乘，一龠之数，得日法。
闰法十九，因为章岁。合天地终数，得闰法。
统法一千五百三十九。以闰法乘日法，得统法。
元法四千六百一十七。参统法，得元法。
会数四十七。参天九，两地十，得会数。
章月二百三十五。五位乘会数，得章月。
月法二千三百九十二。推大衍象，得月法。
通法五百九十八。四分月法，得通法。
中法十四万五百三十。以章月乘通法，得中法。
周天五十六万二千一百二十。以章月乘月法，得周天。
岁中十二。以三统乘四时，得岁中。
月周二百五十四。以章月加闰法，得月周。
朔望之会百三十五。参天数二十五，两地数三十，得朔望之会。
会月六千三百四十五。以会数乘朔望之会，得会月。
统月一万九千三十五。参会月，得统月。
元月五万七千一百五。参统月，得元月。
章中二百二十八。以闰法乘岁中，得章中。
统中一万八千四百六十八。以日法乘章中，得统中。
元中五万五千四百四。参统中，得元中。
策余八千八十。什乘元中，以减周天，得策余。
周至五十七。参闰法，得周至。
纪母。木金相乘为十二，是为岁星小周。
小周乘 坤 策，为千七百二十八，是为岁星岁数。
见中分二万七百三十六。
积中十三，中余百五十七。
见中法一千五百八十三。
见数也。
见闰分万二千九十六。
积月十三，月余一万五千七十九。
见月法三万七十七。
见中日法七百三十万八千七百一十一。
translation: 
Said method: eighty-one; the original Huang Zhong Chujiu multiplied by itself, which is a number, and it is called the method number.
Leap method: nineteen; use it as the number of years in a chapter, add up the ending numbers of heaven and earth, and get the leap method number.
Tongfa: one thousand five hundred and thirty-nine; multiply the leap number by the daily number to get the unified number.
Yuanfa: four thousand six hundred and seventeen; multiply the number of unified methods by three, and get the number of yuanfa.
Able to count: forty-seven; multiply the number nine by three in the sky, multiply the tens in the earth by two, and add them up to get the number you can count.
Zhang month: two hundred and thirty-five; multiply the number by five digits to get the number of Zhang month.
Moon Dharma: Two Thousand Three Hundred and Ninety-Two; deducing the Great Evolutionary Signs, we can get the number of the Moon Dharma.
Tongfa: five hundred and ninety-eight; divide the moon method by four to get the number of Tongfa.
Zhongfa: One hundred and four hundred and five hundred and thirty; multiply the number of Zhang Yue by the general method to get the Zhongfa number.
Weekly days: five hundred and sixty-two thousand one hundred and twenty; multiply the number of chapters and months by the number of months to get the number of days of the week.
The middle of the year: twelve; multiply the three numbers by the four hours to get the middle of the year.
Week of the month: two hundred and fifty-four; use the number of the month plus the leap method to get the number of the week of the month.
The number of the synodic meeting: one hundred and thirty-five; multiply three times the number of days and twenty-five, multiply two times the number of two places and count thirty, and add the products together to get the number of the synodic meeting.
Meeting month: six thousand three hundred and forty-five; multiply the meeting number by the synodic meeting number to get the number of meeting months.
Tongyue: Nineteen thousand and thirty-five; count to get the number of Tongyue.
The first month: fifty-seven thousand one hundred and five; count to get the number of the first month.
Multiply the Hui month by three and the Tong month chapter by three: two hundred and twenty-eight; multiply the year number by the leap number to get the chapter number.
Tongzhong: eighteen thousand four hundred and sixty-eight; multiply the number in the chapter by the number in the law to get the number in the system.
Yuanzhong: fifty-five thousand four hundred and four; multiply the number of the united number by three to get the number of the yuanzhong.
Ce Yu: eight thousand and eighty; multiply the number by ten yuan, subtract the number of weeks from the product, and get the Ce remainder.
Zhou Zhi: fifty-seven; multiply the leap method by three to get the number of Zhou Zhi.
The numbers of wood and metal are multiplied together to get twelve, which is the number of the minor week of the year star.
Multiply the small week number by the "" policy number, and you get one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-eight, which is the number of years of the Sui star.
See the winning score: twenty thousand, seven hundred and thirty-six.
The middle number of the product is thirteen; the middle number is one hundred and fifty-seven.
See the correct number: one thousand five hundred and eighty-three.
It's a number.
See leap fraction: twelve thousand and ninety-six.
Number of accumulated months: thirteen; remaining months: fifteen thousand and seventy-nine.
Seeing the Moon: Thirty thousand and seventy-seven.
See the method: seven hundred and thirty-eight thousand, seven hundred and eleven.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
见月日法二百四十三万六千二百三十七。
金火相乘为八，又以火乘之为十六而小复。
小复乘 乾 策，为三千四百五十六，是为太白岁数。
见中分四万一千四百七十二。
积中十九，中余四百一十三。
见中法二千一百六十一。
复数。
见闰分二万四千一百九十二。
积月十九，月余三万二千三十九。
见月法四万一千五十九。
晨中分二万三千三百二十八。
积中七，中余千七百一十八。
夕中分一万八千一百四十四。
积中八，中余八百五十六。
晨闰分万三千六百八。
积月十一，月余五千一百九十一。
夕闰分万五百八十四。
积月八，月余二万六千八百四十八。
见中日法九百九十七万七千三百三十七。
见月日法三百三十二万五千七百七十九。
土木相乘而合经纬为三十，是为镇星小周。
小周乘 坤 策，为四千三百二十，是为镇星岁数。
见中分五万一千八百四十。
积中十二，中余一千七百四十。
见中法四千一百七十五。
见数也。
见闰分三万二百四十。
积月十二，月余六万三千三百。
见月法七万九千三百二十五。
见中日法一千九百二十七万五千九百七十五。见月日法六百四十二万五千三百二十五。
火经特成，故二岁而过初，三十二过初为六十四岁而小周。
小周乘 乾 策，则太阳大周，为一万三千八百二十四岁，是为荧惑岁数。
见中分十六万五千八百八十八。
积中二十五，中余四千一百六十三。
见中法六千四百六十九。
见数也。
见闰分九万六千七百六十八。
积月二十六，月余五万二千九百五十四。见月法一十二万二千九百一十一。
见中日法二千九百八十六万七千三百七十三。见月日法九百九十五万五千七百九十一。
translation: 
See the moon and say Dharma: two hundred, four hundred and thirty-six thousand two hundred and thirty-seven.
Multiply the numbers of metal and fire to eight, and multiply the number of fire by eight to get the sum of sixteen and the small plural number.
Multiply the number of "Qian" by the small plural number, and you get 3456, which is the number of years of Taibai Star.
See the middle score: forty-one thousand four hundred and seventy-two.
Accumulation: nineteen; remainder: four hundred and thirteen.
See Zhongfa: Two thousand one hundred and sixty-one.
is plural.
See leap points: twenty-four thousand one thousand and ninety-two.
Accumulated months: nineteen; remaining months: thirty-two thousand and thirty-nine.
See the moon method: forty-one thousand and fifty-nine.
Mid-morning minute: twenty-three thousand three hundred and twenty-eight.
Out of the total: ten; out of the total: one thousand, seven hundred and eighteen.
Midnight equinox: eighteen thousand one hundred and forty-four.
Accumulation: eight; remainder: eight hundred and fifty-six.
Morning leap points: thirteen thousand six hundred and eight.
Accumulated month: eleven; remaining month: five thousand one hundred and ninety-one.
Leap points: 10,584.
Accumulated months: eight; remaining months: twenty-six thousand eight hundred and forty-eight.
See Zhongfa: nine hundred nine hundred and seventy-seven thousand three hundred and thirty-seven.
See the moon and say Dharma: three hundred and twenty-five thousand seven hundred and seventy-nine.
Multiplying the numbers of earth and wood plus the number of longitude and latitude is thirty, which is the number of small weeks of Zhenxing.
The number of Xiao Zhou multiplied by the number of "" is four thousand three hundred and twenty, which is the number of years of Zhenxing.
See the middle score: fifty-one thousand eight hundred and forty.
Out of total: twelve; out of total: one thousand, seven hundred and forty.
five. See Zhongfa: four thousand one hundred and seventy-five.
This is a number.
See leap points: thirty thousand two hundred and forty.
Accumulated months: twelve; remaining months: sixty-three thousand three hundred.
Seeing the moon method: seventy-nine thousand three hundred and twenty-five.
See the method in the middle: one thousand nine hundred and two hundred and seventy-five thousand nine hundred and seventy. See the method in the moon: six hundred and four hundred and twenty-five thousand three hundred and twenty-five.
The formation of the law of fire is very special. After two years, it will pass the starting point. If it exceeds the starting point thirty-two times, it will be sixty-four years, and there will be Xiao Zhou.
Multiply the number of small weeks by the number of "Qian", then the sun is the number of big weeks, which is 13,824 years, which is the number of years of Yinghuo.
See the middle score: one hundred and sixty-five thousand eight hundred and eighty-eight.
Four. Accumulation: twenty-five; remainder: four thousand one hundred and sixty-three.
See Zhongfa: six stems and four hundred and sixty-nine.
This is a number.
See leap points: ninety-six thousand, seven hundred and sixty-eight.
The accumulated month: twenty-six; the remaining month: fifty-two thousand nine hundred and fifty. The method of seeing the moon: one hundred and twenty-two thousand nine hundred and eleven.
See the middle and say Dharma: two thousand nine hundred and sixty-seven thousand three hundred and seventy. See the moon and say Dharma: nine hundred and ninety-five-five thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
水经特成，故一岁而及初，六十四及初而小复。
小复乘 坤 策，则太阴大周，为九千二百一十六岁，是为辰星岁数。
见中分十一万五百九十二。
积中三，中余二万三千四百六十九。
见中法二万九千四十一。
复数也。
见闰分六万四千五百一十二。
积月三，月余五十一万四百二十三。
见月法五十五万一千七百七十九。
晨中分六万二千二百八。
积中二，中余四千一百二十六。
夕中分四万八千三百八十四。
积中一，中余一万九千三百四十三。
晨闰分三万六千二百八十八。
积月二，月余十一万四千六百八十二。
久闰分二万八千二百二十四。
积月一，月余三十九万五千七百四十一。
见中日法一亿三千四百八万二千二百九十七。
见月日法四千四百六十九万四千九十九。
合太阴太阳之岁数而中分之，各万一千五百二十。
阳施其气，阴成其物。
以星行率减岁数，余则见数也。
东九西七乘岁数，并九七为法，得一，金、水晨夕岁数。
以岁中乘岁数，是为星见中分。
星见数，是为见中法。
以岁闰乘岁数，是为星见闰分。
以章岁乘见数，是为见月法。
以元法乘见数，是为见中日法。
以统法乘见数，是为见月日法。
五步木，晨始见，去日半次。
顺，日行十一分度二，百二十一日。
始留，二十五日而旋。
逆，日行七分度一，八十四日。
复留，二十四日三分而旋。
复顺，日行十一分度二，百一十一日有百八十二万八千三百六十二分而伏。
凡见三百六十五日有百八十二万八千三百六十五分，除逆，定行星三十度百六十六万一千二百八十六分。
凡见一岁，行一次而后伏。
日行不盈十一分度一。
伏三十三日三百三十三万四千七百三十七分，行星三度百六十七万三千四百五十一分。
translation: 
The pattern of water is formed in a special way, so it will start after one year, and there will be a small recovery after sixty-four times.
Using the calculation method of "Xiao Fuyang", it is the Taiyin Great Zhou, which has nine thousand two hundred and sixteen years, which is the number of years of the stars.
See the middle score: one hundred and one hundred, five hundred and ninety-two.
Accumulation: three; remainder: thirty-two thousand four hundred and sixty-nine.
See Zhongfa: twenty-nine thousand and forty-one.
This is the plural.
See leap points: sixty-four thousand five hundred and twelve.
Accumulated months: three; remaining months: 510,423.
See the moon method: five hundred and fifty-one thousand seven hundred and seventy-nine.
Mid-morning minute: sixty-two thousand two hundred and eight.
Accumulation: two; remainder: four thousand one hundred and twenty-six.
Midnight equinox: forty-eight thousand three hundred and eighty-four.
The middle of the total is one; the remainder is nineteen thousand three hundred and forty-three.
Morning leap points: thirty-six thousand two hundred and eighty-eight.
Accumulated months: two; remaining months: one hundred and four thousand six hundred and eighty-two.
Leap points: twenty-eight thousand two hundred and twenty-four.
Accumulated months: one; number of months left: three hundred and ninety-five thousand, seven hundred and forty
See the Dharma: one hundred and thirty-four million, eighty-two thousand two hundred and ninety-seven.
The method of seeing the moon and sun: four thousand four hundred and sixty-nine thousand and ninety-nine.
Add the years of the lunar and sun and divide by two, each is eleven thousand five hundred and twenty.
Yang energy is released, and yin energy makes all things grow.
Subtract the number of years from the number of stars and planets, and what is left is the number of sight.
The number of years is multiplied by seven to the west. Nine and seven are added to form a legal number, and one is obtained, which is the number of years for gold and water in the morning and evening.
Multiply the number of years by the number of years in the year to get the number in the star view.
The number of stars is the number of dharma.
Multiply the number of years by the leap number to get the leap fraction.
Multiplying the number of years by the number is the number of the moon.
Multiplying the elemental number with the visible number is called the visible number.
Multiply the unified method number by the visible number, which is called the visible number.
Jupiter: Appears at the beginning of the morning, removing half of the day.
Direct motion, moving eleven minutes and two degrees every day, passing through one hundred and twenty-one days.
It stopped running at first, then came back twenty-five days later.
In retrograde motion, it travels seven-sevenths of a degree every day for eighty-four days.
It stayed for another twenty-four days and three minutes before turning back.
It moves forward again, moving eleven minutes and two degrees every day, and then subsides after one hundred and eleven days and one million eight hundred and twenty-eight thousand three hundred and sixty-two minutes.
There are a total of 365 days and 1,828,365 minutes. Excluding the number of retrogrades, the fixed planet is 30 degrees and 1,661,1286 minutes.
Whenever it appears for a year, it will fall back after doing it once.
It runs less than eleven minutes a day.
The thirty-three days of the volt are 3,334,737 minutes, and the third degree of the planet is 1,673,451 minutes.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
一见，三百九十八日五百一十六万三千一百二分，行星三十三度三百三十三万四千七百三十七分。
通其率，故曰日行千七百二十八分度之百四十五。
金，晨始见，去日半次。
逆，日行二分度一，六日，始留，八日而旋。
始顺，日行四十六分度三十三，四十六日。
顺，疾，日行一度九十二分度十五，百八十四日而伏。
凡见二百四十四日，除逆，定行星二百四十四度。
伏，日行一度九十二分度三十三有奇。
伏八十三日，行星百一十三度四百三十六万五千二百二十分。
凡晨见、伏三百二十七日，行星三百五十七度四百三十六万五千二百二十分。
夕始见，去日半次。
顺，日行一度九十二分度十五，百八十一日百七分日四十五。
顺，迟，日行四十六分度四十三，四十六日。
始留，七日百七分日六十二分而旋。
逆，日行二分度一，六日而伏。
凡见二百四十一日，除逆，定行星二百四十一度。
伏，逆，日行八分度七有奇。
伏十六日百二十九万五千三百五十二分，行星十四度三百六万九千八百六十八分。
一凡夕见伏，二百五十七日百二十九万五千三百五十一分，行星二百二十六度六百九十万七千四百六十九分。
一复，五百八十四日百二十九万五千三百五十二分。
行星亦如之，故曰日行一度。
土，晨始见，去日半次。
顺，日行十五分度一，八十七日。始留，三十四日而旋。
逆，日行八十一分度五，百一日。复留，三十三日八十六万二千四百五十五分而旋。
复顺，日行十五分度一，八十五日而伏。
凡见三百四十日八十六万二千四百五十五分，除逆，定余行星五度四百四十七万三千九百三十分。
伏，日行不盈十五分度三。
三十七日千七百一十七万一百七十分，行星七度八百七十三万六千五百七十分。
一见，三百七十七日千八百三万二千六百二十五分，行星十二度千三百二十一万五百分。
通其率，故曰日行四千三百二十分度之百四十五。
火，晨始见，去日半次，顺，日行九十二分度五十三，二百七十六日，始留，十日而旋。
逆，日行六十二分度十七，六十二日。
translation: 
Appearing once, there are 398 days and 5,163,102 minutes, and the planet has 33 degrees and 3,334,737 minutes.
It is its usual ratio, so a day travels one thousand seven hundred and twenty-eight and one hundred and forty-fifth of a degree.
Venus: Appears at the beginning of the morning, removing half of the day.
In retrograde motion, it travels half a degree a day and lasts for six days. I came back eight days after my initial stay.
It begins to move forward, moving forty-six minutes and thirty-three degrees a day, and passes through forty-six days.
If it goes straight, it will move quickly. It will move one degree, ninety-two minutes and fifteen degrees in one day, and it will fall after one hundred and eighty-four days.
It appears for a total of 244 days, excluding the number of retrogrades, and the fixed planets have 244 degrees.
Voltage, it runs more than one degree, ninety-two minutes and thirty-three degrees a day.
On the eighty-third day of the lunar month, the planets are at 113 degrees and 4,365,220 minutes.
There are three hundred and twenty-seven days of morning appearance and twilight, and the planets have 357 degrees and 4,365,220 minutes.
It starts to appear at night, taking away half of the day.
Direct motion, one day moves one degree and ninety-two minutes and fifteen degrees, one hundred and eighty-one days and one hundred and seven minutes and forty-five degrees.
Direct motion, slow motion, one day moves forty-six minutes and thirty-three degrees, forty-six days.
It started to stay, and then turned back at seven days, one hundred and seven minutes and sixty-two minutes.
In retrograde motion, it moves twice a degree in one day and falls in six days.
There are a total of 241 occurrences, excluding retrogrades, and 241 fixed planets.
Fu, retrograde, moves more than eight minutes and seven degrees in one day.
The sixteenth day of the volt is 1,295,352 minutes, and the fourteenth degree of the planet is 3,069,868 minutes.
The number of volts that appear in Yifan at night is 257,129,5352 minutes, and the number of planets is 226 degrees and 6,907,469 minutes.
Repeated once, it is five hundred and eighty-four days and one thousand two hundred and ninety-five thousand three hundred and fifty-two minutes.
The same is true for the planets, so they move once a day.
Saturn: Appears at the beginning of the morning, removing half of the day.
In direct motion, it travels fifteen minutes per day, stops after eighty-seven days, and turns around after thirty-four days.
Retrograde, traveling eighty-one minutes and five degrees in one day, stopping again after one hundred and one days, and turning back after thirty-three days and eight hundred and sixty-two thousand four hundred and fifty-five degrees.
It goes direct again, moving fifteen minutes to one degree a day, and then subsides after eighty-five days.
There are a total of 340 days and 862,455 days. Excluding retrograde numbers, the fifth degree of fixed planets is 4,473,930 days.
When it is volts, it moves less than fifteen minutes and three degrees a day.
Thirty-seven days are one thousand seven hundred and seventy thousand one hundred and seventy, and the seventh degree of the planet is eight hundred seven hundred and thirty-six thousand five hundred and seventy.
Appearing once is one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two thousand six hundred and twenty-five minutes in three hundred and seventy-seven days, and the twelve degrees of the planet are one thousand three hundred and twenty-one thousand five hundred minutes.
is its usual proportion, so that a day runs 4320/145 degrees.
Mars: Appears at the beginning of the morning, removing half of the day. In direct motion, it travels ninety-two minutes and fifty-three degrees a day, stops after two hundred and seventy-six days, and turns around after ten days.
Retrograde, moving sixty-two minutes and seventeen degrees a day, passing through sixty-two days.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
复留，十日而旋。
复顺，日行九十二分度五十三，二百七十六日而伏。凡见六百三十四日，除逆，定行星三百一度。
伏，日行不盈九十二分度七十三，伏百四十六日千五百六十八万九千七百分，行星百一十四度八百二十一万八千五分。
一见，七百八十日千五百六十八万九千七百分，凡行星四百一十五度八百二十一万八千五分。
通其率，故曰日行万三千八百二十四分度之七千三百五十五。
水，晨始见，去日半次。
逆，日行二度，一日。
始留，二日而旋。
顺，日行七分度六，七日。
顺，疾，日行一度三分度一，十八日而伏。
凡见二十八日，除逆，定行星二十八度。
伏，日行一度九分度七有奇，三十七日一亿二千二百二万九千六百五分，行星六十八度四千六百六十一万一百二十八分。
凡晨见、伏，六十五日一亿二千二百二万九千六百五分，行星九十六度四千六百六十一万一百二十八分。
夕始见，去日半次。
顺，日行一度三分度一，十六日二分日一。
顺，迟，日行七分度六，七日。
留，一日二分日一而旋。
逆，日行二度，一日而伏。
凡见二十六日，除逆，定行星二十六度。
伏，逆，日行十五分度四有奇，二十四日，行星六百五千八百六十六万二千八百二十分。
凡夕见伏，五十日，行星十九度七千五百四十一万九千四百七十七分。
一复，百一十五日一亿二千二百二万九千六百五分。
行星亦如之，故曰日行一度。
统术推日月元统，置太极上元以来，外所求年，盈元法除之，余不盈统者，则天统甲子以来年数也。
盈统，除之，余则地统甲辰以来年数也。
又盈统，除之，余则人统甲申以来年数也。
各以其统首日为纪。
推天正，以章月乘入统岁数，盈章岁得一，名曰积月，不盈者名曰闰余。
闰余十二以上，岁有闰。
求地正，加积月一；求入正，加二。
translation: 
Stay for ten more times and then turn around.
It goes direct again, traveling ninety-two minutes and fifty-three degrees a day, and after 276 days it goes backward: a total of six hundred and thirty-four days, excluding retrograde, the fixed planet is 301 degrees.
When it is volts, a day moves less than ninety-two minutes and seventy-three degrees. When it is volts, it moves less than 92 minutes and 73 degrees in a day. When it is volts, it moves less than 15,689,700 minutes in a day. The planets move in 114 degrees and 8,218,050 degrees.
Appearing once, it is 15,689,000% of 780 days, with a total of 415 degrees of planets, 8,218,050%.
is its usual ratio, so a day runs 13824/7355/1 degree.
Mercury: Appears at the beginning of the morning, removing half of the day.
Retrograde, traveling twice a day, traveling one day.
It stayed for two days and then turned around.
Direct motion, it moves seven minutes and six degrees a day, and it moves seven days.
Direct motion, fast, moving one-third of a degree a day, falling after eighteen days.
There are twenty-eight days in total, excluding the number of retrogrades, and the fixed planets are twenty-eight degrees.
Fu Shi moves more than one degree, nine minutes and seven degrees in one day. After thirty-seven days, 122,029,605 degrees, the planet reaches 68 degrees and 46,610,128 minutes.
Appearing in the morning, the total number of days is 122,029,605, and the planet is 96 degrees and 46,610,128 minutes.
It starts to appear at night, taking away half of the day.
Direct motion, fast, running one-third of a degree in one day and two-thirds of a degree in sixteen days.
Direct motion, slow motion, running seven minutes and six degrees a day, running seven days.
Stay for half a day and then turn around.
Retrograde, moving twice a day, then falling after one day.
It appears for a total of twenty-six days, excluding the retrograde number, and the fixed planets have twenty-six degrees.
When the volts are retrograde, they move more than four degrees in a day for fifteen minutes. After twenty-four days, the planet has six degrees of 58,662,820 minutes.
Whenever the hour appears at night, after fifty days, the planet will have nineteen degrees and seven thousand five hundred and four hundred and nineteen thousand four hundred and seventy-seven minutes.
It will take 115 days and 122,029,605 days to appear again.
The same is true for the planets, so they move once a day.
Deducing the Sun-Moon Yuan Tong: Since the original Shangyuan, regardless of the required years, the Man-Yuan method will remove it, and the remainder that is not unified is the number of years since Tiantong Jiazi.
Once the unified system is full, it will be removed, and what remains will be the number of years since the Jiachen period of the unified system.
Once the unified system is complete, it will be removed. What remains is the number of years since joining the unified system of Jiashen.
Each takes the day of its leader as a record.
To deduce Tianzheng: Multiply the number of months in a chapter into the number of years in the unified system. If the year is full, then one will be named Ji Yue, and if it is less than the age of a chapter, it will be named leap year.
There are more than twelve leap years, and there is a leap year.
To seek righteousness from the earth: add one accumulated month; to seek righteousness from others: add two accumulated months.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
推正月朔，以月法乘积月，盈日法得一，名曰积日，不盈者名曰小余。
小余三十八以上，其月大。
积日盈六十，除之，不盈者名曰大余。
数从统首日起，算外，则朔日也。
求其次月，加大余二十九，小余四十三。
小余盈日法得一，从大余，数除如法。
求弦，加大余七，小余三十一。
求望，倍弦。
推闰余所在，以十二乘闰余，加七得一。
盈章中，数所得，起冬至，算外，则中至终闰盈。
中气在朔若二日，则前月闰也。
推冬至，以策余乘入统岁数，盈弦法得一，名曰大余，不盈者名曰小余。
除数如法，则所求冬至日也。
求八节，加大余四十五，小余千一十。
求二十四气，三其小余，加大余十五，小余千一十。
推中部二十四气，皆以元为法。
推五行，其四行各七十三日，统法分之七十七。
中央各十八日，统法分之四百四。
冬至后，中央二十七日六百六分。
推合晨所在星，置积日，以统法乘之，以十九乘小余而并之。
盈周天，除去之；不盈者，令盈统法得一度。
数起牵牛，算外，则合晨所入星度也。
推其日夜半所在星，以章岁乘月小余，以减合晨度。
小余不足者，破全度。
推其月夜半所在星，以月周乘月小余，盈统法得一度，以减合晨度。
推诸加时，以十二乘小余为实，各盈分母为法，数起于子，算外，则所加辰也。
推月食，置会余岁积月，以二十三乘之，盈百三十五，除之。
不盈者，加二十三得一月，盈百三十五，数所得，起其正，算外，则食月也。
加时，在望日冲辰。
translation: 
Deduced on the first day of the first lunar month: Use the moon method to multiply the product of the month. If it is full, you will get one, which is named Ji. If it is not full, it will be named Xiaoyu.
Xiaoyu is over thirty-eight, and his moon is the big moon.
If the accumulation is over sixty, it will be removed. If it is less than sixty, it will be named Dayu.
The calculation starts from the first day of the system, and what is removed from the calculation is the new day.
Find its second month: add Dayu twenty-nine and Xiaoyu forty-three.
If the small remainder is one, it is merged into the large remainder. If the large remainder is sixty, it is removed in the same way as the previous method.
To find the string: just add the big remainder seven and the small remainder thirty-one.
Ask: Multiply the string by two.
To deduce the location of the leap remainder: multiply the leap remainder by twelve and add seven to get one.
In the full chapter, the calculated results, starting from the winter solstice, and not counting, are the leap full from the mid-qi to the end point.
If the period of the first day of the lunar month is two days, then the previous month will be a leap year.
Deducing the winter solstice: Multiply Ce Yu into Tong years. If the Tong method is full, it will be named Dayu. If the Tong method is not enough, it will be named Xiao Yu.
The divisor is the same as before, which is the desired winter solstice day.
Find eight verses: Just add the big remainder forty-five and the small remainder one thousand and ten.
To find the twenty-four hour qi: just multiply three times the small remainder, add the larger remainder of fifteen, and the smaller remainder is one thousand and ten.
To calculate the twenty-four qi in the central part: Yuan is used as the method number.
Calculate the five elements: four of them have seventy-three days each, which is the seventy-seventh of the unified method.
There are eighteen days in each center, which is 404/4 of the unified law.
After the winter solstice, there are twenty-seven days and six hundred and six minutes in the center.
Calculate the stars for all mornings: multiply the product by the unified method, multiply the nineteen by the small remainder and add the accumulated day.
If it is full of Zhou Tian, ​​then get rid of it; if it is not full of Zhou Tian, ​​let Mantong Dharma gain one degree.
The calculation starts from the morning glory, and what is removed from the calculation is the number of stars entered throughout the morning.
To calculate the star position at midnight of day and night: multiply Zhang Sui by the small remainder of the moon, and then subtract the combined morning degree.
If the small excess is insufficient, the full degree will be broken.
To calculate the star where the moon is at midnight: multiply the moon's week by the moon's small remainder, and then subtract the combined morning degree to get one degree.
Calculate the added hours: multiply the remainder by twelve to be a real number, and the perfect denominator to be a normal number. Start counting from the child, and calculate and remove what is added.
Calculate the lunar eclipse: Multiply the remaining years and months by twenty-three, and when it reaches one hundred and thirty-five, remove it.
If it is less than one hundred and thirty-five, then thirteen is counted as one month. If it is more than one hundred and thirty-five, the calculated result is calculated starting from the right and removing the eclipse moon.
In extra time, we are looking forward to the sun and the sun.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
纪术推五星见复，置太极上元以来，尽所求年，乘大终见复数，盈岁数得一，则定见复数也。
不盈者名曰见复余。
见复余盈其见复数，一以上见在往年，倍一以上，又在前往年，不盈者在今年也。
推星所见中次，以见中分乘定见复数，盈见中法得一则积中也。
不盈者名曰中余。
以元中除积中，余则中元余也。
以章中除之，余则入章中数也。
以十二除之，余则星见中次也。
中数从冬至起，次数从星纪起，算外，则星所见中次也。
推星见月，以闰分乘定见复数，以章岁乘中余从之，盈见月法得一，并积中，则积月也。
不盈者名曰月余。
以元月除积月余，名曰月元余。
以章月除月元余，则入章月数也。
以十二除之，至有闰之岁，除十三入章。
三岁一闰，六岁二闰，九岁三闰，十一岁四闰，十四岁五闰，十七岁六闰，十九岁七闰。
不盈者数起于天正，算外，则星所见月也。
推至日，以中法乘中元余，盈元法得一，名曰积日，不盈者名曰小余。
小余盈二千五百九十七以上，中大。
数除积日如法，算外，则冬至也。
推朔日，以月法乘月元余，盈日法得一，名曰积日，余名曰小余。
小余三十八以上，月大。
数除积日如法，算外，则星见月朔日也。
推入中次日度数，以中法乘中余，以见中法乘其小余并之。盈见中日法得一，则入中日入次度数也。
中以至日数，次以次初数，算外，则星所见及日所在度数也。
求夕，在日后十五度。
推入月日数，以月法乘月余，以见月法乘其小余并之，盈见月日法得一，则入月日数也。
并之大余，数除如法，则见日也。
推后见中，加积中于中元余，加后中余于中余，盈其法得一，从中元余，除数如法，则后见中也。
推后见月，加积月于月元余，加后月余于月余，盈其法得一，从月元余，除数如法，则后见月也。
推至日及人中次度数，如上法。
推朔日及入月数，如上法。
推晨见加夕，夕见加晨，皆如上法。
推五步，置始见以来日数，至所求日，各以其行度数乘之。
其星若日有分者，分子乘全为实，分母为法。
其两有分者，分母分度数乘全，分子从之，令相乘为实，分母相乘为法，实如法得一，名曰积度。
数起星初见所在宿度，算外，则星所在宿度也。
岁术推岁所在，置上元以来，外所求年，盈岁数，除去之，不盈者以百四十五乘之，以百四十四为法，如法得一，名曰积次，不盈者名曰次余。
积次盈十二，除去之，不盈者名曰定次。
数从星纪起，算尽之外，则所在次也。
欲知太岁，以六十除积次，余不盈者，数从丙子起，算尽之外，则太岁日也。
translation: 
Calculate the five-star manifestation complex number: Multiply the Datong manifestation complex number from the original Shangyuan and all the required years. The full number of years is one, which is the definite manifestation complex number.
Those who are less than one year old are called Xianfuyu.
The present plural is full of its present plural. If it is more than one, it will appear in the previous year. If it is more than double, it will appear in the year before that. If it is less than one year old, it will appear in this year.
Calculate the middle number of the star's appearance: multiply the present complex number by the divided part of the present middle number. If the full present middle number is obtained, one is obtained, which is the product middle number.
Those who are dissatisfied with the present Zhongfa are called Zhongyu.
Divide product Zhong by Yuan Zhong, and the remainder is Zhong Yuan remainder.
Use the zhongzhong to divide the middle yuan, and the remainder will be included in the zhongzhong.
Divide the number of chapters by twelve, and the remainder is the number of star appearances.
The middle number starts from the winter solstice, and the number starts from the star era. If not counted, it is the middle number of the star.
Calculate the star and the moon: Multiply the definite present complex number by the leap factor, multiply the remainder by the chapter year, add the two products, the full moon method is one, add the product, it is the accumulated month.
Those who are dissatisfied with the appearance of the moon are called Yue Yu.
Dividing the accumulated monthly surplus by the first month is called Yueyuanyu.
If the remainder of the month is divided by the zhang month, it is incorporated into the number of the zhang month.
Divide the month number of the chapter by twelve, and in a leap year, divide it by thirteen and merge it into the chapter.
There is one leap in every three years, two leaps in six years, three leaps in nine years, four leaps in eleven years, five leaps in fourteen years, six leaps in seventeen years, and seven leaps in nineteen years.
Those who are dissatisfied with the method of manifesting the moon will start counting from Tianzheng. If not calculated, the moon will be manifested by the stars.
The calculation is as follows: Multiply the middle Yuan by the Zhong method. If the Yuan method is full, you will get one, which is called accumulation. If it is less than the Yuan method, it will be called Xiaoyu.
Xiaoyu is over two thousand five hundred and ninety-seven, and is a middle school student.
According to the rules, divide the product and calculate, it is the winter solstice.
Calculate the new moon day: Use the moon method to multiply the moon Yuan Yu, and the full Yue method is used to get one, which is called Ji Yue, and the rest is called Xiao Yu.
Xiaoyu is over thirty-eight and one month old.
According to the rules, if you divide the accumulated days and count them, it means that the stars will appear on the first day of the new moon.
Calculate the degree of the next day after entering the center: Multiply the middle remainder by the center method, multiply the small remainder by the present center method, add the two products, and when the present center method is full, we get one, which is the degree of the enter day.
The middle number is the number of the day, the second number is the initial number, and the outer number is the degree where the star appears and is.
Asking for the evening, it will be fifteen degrees later.
To calculate the number of days in the moon: Multiply the remainder of the month by the moon method, multiply its small remainder by the method of the apparent moon, and add their products. When the full moon is full, the number of days in the moon is one, which is the number of the days of the entered moon.
Add the remainder and divide according to the rules, which is the present day.
Calculate the posterior and present middle: add the middle remainder of the product to the middle remainder, add the posterior middle remainder to the middle remainder, and get one when it is full, add the middle remainder, and divide according to the rules, which is the posterior manifestation middle.
Calculate the post manifest month: Add the accumulated month to the month's remainder, add the post month's remainder to the month's remainder, until it is full, you get one, add the month's remainder, and divide according to the rules to get the post manifest month.
Calculate the solstice and the middle degree: the same method as before.
Calculate the new day and the beginning of the month: the same as the previous method.
Calculating morning appearance plus evening time: adding evening time to morning time is the same as the previous method.
Five steps of calculation: use the number of days since it first appeared, and multiply them by the number of degrees it travels to the desired day.
If the star has a divisor, multiply the numerator by the whole number as the divisor and the denominator as the dividend.
Among them, if two stars have points, multiply the whole by the denominator and the numerator, so that the multiplication becomes the divisor, and the denominator multiplication becomes the dividend. If the dividend is the same as the divisor, we get one, which is called the integral.
The calculation starts from the nakshatra degree where the star first appears. If not calculated, it is the nakshatra degree where the star is.
Calculating the age: Since the Yuan Dynasty, regardless of the year required, if the number of years is found, just remove it. If it is less than the number of years, multiply it by one hundred and forty-five, and use one hundred and forty-four as the divisor. If it is equal to the divisor, it will be one, which is called the accumulation times. If it is less than the number of years, it is called the remainder.
If the accumulated number reaches twelve, it is removed. If it is less than twelve, it is called fixed number.
Start counting from the star era, and anything beyond the end of the calculation is the current time.
If you want to know Tai Sui, divide the accumulated times by sixty, and the remainder is less than twelve. Count from Bing Zi. After counting, the rest is Tai Sui.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
赢缩。
传曰： 岁弃其次而旅于明年之次，以害鸟帑，周、楚恶之。
五星之赢缩不是过也。
过次者殃大，过舍者灾小，不过者亡咎。
次度。
六物者，岁时日月星辰也。
辰者，日月之会而建所指也。星纪，初斗十二度，大雪。
中牵牛初，冬至。
于夏为十一月，商为十二月，周为正月。
终于婺女七度。
玄枵，初婺女八度，小寒。
中危初，大寒。
于夏为十二月，商为正月，周为二月。
终于危十五度。
诹訾，初危十六度，立春。
中营室十四度，惊蛰。
今日雨水，于夏为正月，商为二月，周为三月。
终于奎四度。
降娄，初奎五度，雨水。
今日惊蛰。
中娄四度，春分。
于夏为二月，商为三月，周为四月。
终于胃六度。
大梁，初胃七度，谷雨。
今日清明。
中昴八度，清明。
今日谷雨，于夏为三月，商为四月，周为五月。
终于毕十一度。
实沈、初毕十二度，立夏。
中井初，小满。
于夏为四月，商为五月，周为六月。
终于井十五度。
鹑首，初井十六度，芒种。
中井三十一度，夏至。
于夏为五月。商为六月，周为七月。
终于柳八度。
鹑火，初柳九度，小暑。
中张三度，大暑。
于夏为六月，商为七月，周为八月。
终于张十七度。
鹑尾，初张十八度，立秋。
中冀十五度，处暑。
于夏为七月，商为八月，周为九月。
终于轸十一度。
寿星，初轸十二度，白露。
中角十度，秋分。
于夏为八月，商为九月，周为十月。
终于氐四度。
大火，初氐五度，寒露。
中房五度，霜降。
于夏为九月，商为十月，周为十一月。
终于尾九度。
析木，初尾十度，立冬。
中箕七度，小雪。
于夏为十月，商为十一月，周为十二月。
张十八。
translation: 
Sui Xing profits and losses.
Legend: The Sui star lost its position and mistakenly moved to the next year's position, damaging the Zhen star and causing disaster to both Zhou and Chu.
Five Star’s profit and loss is not a fault.
If you miss the position for a year, the disaster will be great; if you miss it for one night, the disaster will be small; if you don't miss it, there will be no disaster.
This is the standard for location.
The six things refer to the year, hour, day, moon, stars, and chen.
Chen is where the handle of the bucket points when the sun and moon meet. In the Xingji, first of all, it was Dou Twelve Degrees and heavy snow.
It’s the first time to have morning glory again, at the winter solstice.
In the Xia Dynasty, it was November, in the Shang Dynasty, it was December, and in the Zhou Dynasty, it was the first month.
Finally, in the seventh degree of Wu Nu.
Xuanzhen starts from Wunu's octave, Xiaohan.
In the middle of the crisis, there was a severe cold.
It was December in the Xia Dynasty, the first month in the Shang Dynasty, and February in the Zhou Dynasty.
Ended at critical fifteen degrees.
Suzi begins at the sixteenth degree of danger, the beginning of spring.
In the middle of the fourteenth degree in the camp, I was awakened by the sting of insects.
Now it is called rain. It was the first month in the Xia Dynasty, February in the Shang Dynasty, and March in the Zhou Dynasty.
It ends at Kui Sidu.
Falling to Lou begins with the fifth degree of Kui and rain.
Now it’s called Jingzhe.
In the middle, it reaches the fourth degree of Lou, the spring equinox.
It was February in the Xia Dynasty, March in the Shang Dynasty, and April in the Zhou Dynasty.
Ends at six degrees of stomach.
Daliang, starting from the seventh degree of the stomach, Grain Rain.
It is now called Qingming Festival.
In the middle, it reaches the Pleiades octave, Qingming.
Now it’s called Guyu. It was March in the Xia Dynasty, April in the Shang Dynasty, and May in the Zhou Dynasty.
It ends at the eleventh hour.
Real sinking begins at the twelfth degree of Bi, the beginning of summer.
In the middle, I went to the well for the first time, Xiaoman.
It was April in the Xia Dynasty, May in the Shang Dynasty, and June in the Zhou Dynasty.
Ending at Well Fifteen Degrees.
The head of the quail begins at the sixteenth degree of the well, with the seeds of awn.
Thirty-one degrees from the middle to the well, the summer solstice.
It was May in the Xia Dynasty, June in the Shang Dynasty, and July in the Zhou Dynasty.
Ended with Liu Badu.
Quail fire starts in Liu Jiudu and Xiaoshu.
In the middle of Zhang Sandu, there was a severe summer heat.
It was June in the Xia Dynasty, July in the Shang Dynasty, and August in the Zhou Dynasty.
Ended with Zhang Shiqidu.
Quail tail begins at the 18th degree of Zhang, the beginning of autumn.
Fifteen degrees from the middle to the wings, the end of the heat.
It was July in the Xia Dynasty, August in the Shang Dynasty, and September in the Zhou Dynasty.
It ends at Zhen eleven degrees.
The longevity star begins at the twelfth degree of Zhen, with white dew.
Ten degrees from the middle to the angle, the autumnal equinox.
In the Xia Dynasty, it was August, in the Shang Dynasty, it was September, and in the Zhou Dynasty, it was October.
It ends at Di 4 degrees.
The fire started at the fifth degree of Celsius, with cold dew.
In the middle of the day, the temperature reaches five degrees and frost falls.
It was September in the Xia Dynasty, October in the Shang Dynasty, and November in the Zhou Dynasty.
Ends at the last ninth degree.
Wood splitting begins at the last ten degrees, the beginning of winter.
In the middle, it reaches the seventh degree of Ji, with light snow.
In the Xia Dynasty, it was October, in the Shang Dynasty, it was November, and in the Zhou Dynasty, it was December.
It ends at Dou Shidu.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
翼十八。轸十七。南百一十二度。
九章岁为百七十一岁，而九道小终。
九终千五百三十九岁而大终。
三终而与元终。
进退于牵牛之前四度五分。
九会。
阳以九终，故曰有九道。
阴兼而成之，故月有十九道。
阳名成功，故九会而终。
四营而成易，故四岁中余一，四章而朔余一，为篇首，八十一章而终一统。
一，甲子元首。
汉太初元年。
十，辛酉。
十九，己未。
二十八，丁巳。
三十七，乙卯。
四十六，壬子。
五十五，庚戌。
六十四，戊申。
七十三，丙午，中。
甲辰二统。
辛丑。
己亥。
丁酉。
乙未。
壬辰。
庚寅。
戊子。
丙戌，季。
甲申三统。
辛巳。
乙卯。
丁丑。
文王十二年。乙亥。
壬申。
庚午。
戊辰。
丙寅，孟。
愍二十二年。
二，癸卯。
十一，辛丑。
二十，己亥。
二十九，丁酉。
三十八，甲午。
四十七，壬辰。
五十六，庚寅。
六十五，戊子。
七十四，乙酉，中。
癸未。
辛巳。
己卯。
丁丑。
甲戌。
壬申。
庚午。
戊辰。
乙丑，季。
癸亥。
辛酉。
己未。
丁巳。
周公五年。甲寅。
壬子。
庚戌。
戊申。元四年。
乙巳，孟。
三，癸未。
十二，辛巳。
二十一，己卯。
三十，丙子。
三十九，甲戌。
四十八，壬申。
五十七，庚午。
六十六，丁卯。
七十五，乙丑，中。
癸亥。
辛酉。
己未。
丙辰。
甲寅。
壬子。
庚戌。
丁未。
乙巳，季。
癸卯。
辛丑。
己亥。
丙申。
甲午。
壬辰。
庚寅。
成十二年。
丁亥。
乙酉，孟。
四，癸亥。
十三，辛酉。
二十二，戊午。
三十一，丙辰。
四十，甲寅。
四十九，壬子。
五十八，己酉。
六十七，丁未。
七十六，乙巳，中。
癸卯。
辛丑。
戊戌。
丙申。
甲午。
壬辰。
己丑。
丁亥。
乙酉，季。
癸未。
辛巳。
戊寅。
丙子。
甲戌。
壬申。
己巳。
丁卯。
乙丑，孟。
五，癸卯。
河平元年。
translation: 
Five empty rooms, ten hearts, five tails, eighteen baskets, eleven dangers, seventeen barracks, sixteen walls, nine poles, eleven bis, sixteen gongs, two ginsengs, nine stars, seven sheets, eighteen wings, eighteen wings, seventeen
Jiuzhangsui is one hundred and seventy-one years, and nine small endings appear.
The Ninth End will end one thousand five hundred and thirty-nine years later.
The third end is the same as the end of Yuan.
Advance and retreat between four degrees and five minutes before the cow.
There were nine rendezvous.
Yang ends with nine, so it is said that there are nine paths.
Yin is made up of both Yang Nine and Yue Nine Paths, so the Moon has nineteen Paths.
Yang means success, so nine intersections are over.
It is easier to wrap it up four times, so there is only one left in the four years, and there is only one left in the four chapters. As the beginning of the chapter, the eighty-one chapters have completed the unification.
One, the head of state of Jiazi.
The first year of Taichu in the Han Dynasty.
Ten, Xinyou.
Nineteen, Ji Wei.
Twenty-eight, Ding Si.
Thirty-seven, Yimao.
Forty-six, Renzi.
Fifty-five, Gengxu.
Sixty-four, Wushen.
Seventy-three, Bingwu, middle.
Jiachen Ertong.
Xin Chou.
Jihai.
Dingyou.
Yiwei.
Renchen.
Gengyin.
Wuzi.
Bingxu, Ji.
Jiashen Santong.
Xin Si.
Ji Mao.
Ding Chou.
The 42nd year of King Wen: Yihai.
Jinyu twenty-six years. Renshen.
Geng Wu.
Wuchen.
Bingyin, Meng.
In the second year of King Min's second divination.
Two, Guimao.
Eleven, Xin Chou.
Twenty, Jihai.
Twenty-nine, Dingyou.
Thirty-eight, Jiawu.
Forty-seven, Renchen.
Fifty-six, Gengyin.
Sixty-five, Wuzi.
Seventy-four, Yiyou, middle.
Guiwei.
Xin Si.
Ji Mao.
Ding Chou.
Jiaxu.
Renshen.
Geng Wu.
Wuchen.
Yi Chou, Ji.
Guihai.
Xin You.
Ji Wei.
Ding Si.
The stone year of Zhou Gong: Jiayin.
Renzi.
Gengxu.
Wushen Yuan four years.
Yisi, Meng.
Three, Guiwei.
Twelve, Xin Si.
Twenty-one, Ji Mao.
Thirty, Bingzi.
Thirty-nine, Jiaxu.
Forty-eight, Renshen.
Fifty-seven, Gengzi.
Sixty-six, Ding Mao.
Seventy-five, Yi Chou, middle.
Guihai.
Xin You.
Ji Wei.
Bingchen.
Jiayin.
Renzi.
Gengxu.
Ding Wei.
Yisi, Ji.
Guimao.
Xin Chou.
Jihai.
Bingshen.
Jiawu.
Renchen.
Gengyin.
Twelve years since he became king.
Dinghai.
Yiyou, Meng.
Four, Guihai.
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty. Thirteen, Xinyou.
Twenty-two, Wu Wu.
Thirty-one, Bingchen.
Forty, Jiayin.
Forty-nine, Renzi.
Fifty-eight, Jiyou.
Sixty-seven, Ding Wei.
Seventy-six, Yisi, middle.
Guimao.
Xin Chou.
Wuxu.
Bingshen.
Jiawu.
Renchen.
Oneself are ugly.
Dinghai.
Yiyou, season.
Guiwei.
Xin Si.
Wuyin.
Bingzi.
Jiaxu.
Renshen.
King Ji thirty-eight years. Jisi.
Ding Mao.
Yi Chou, Meng.
Five, Guimao.
The first year of Heping.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
十四，庚子。
二十三，戊戌。
三十二，丙申。
四十一，甲午。
五十，辛卯。
五十九，己丑。
六十八，丁亥。
七十七，乙酉，中。
癸未。
庚辰。
戊寅。
丙子。
甲戌。
辛未。
己巳。
丁卯。
乙丑，季。
癸亥。
庚申。
戊午。
丙辰。
甲寅。
献十五年。
商太甲元年。
楚元三年。
六，壬午。
十五，庚辰。
二十四，戊寅。
三十三，丙子。
四十二，癸酉。
五十一，辛未。
六十，己巳。
六十九，丁卯。
七十八，甲子，中。
壬戌。
庚申。
戊午。
丙辰。
癸丑。
辛亥。
巳酉。
丁未。
甲辰，季。
壬寅。
庚子。
戊戌。
丙申。
炀二十四年。
癸巳。
辛卯。
己丑。
丁亥。
康四年。
甲申，孟。
七，壬戌。
始建国三年。
十六，庚申。
二十五，戊午。
三十四，乙卯。
四十三，癸丑。
五十二，辛亥。
六十一，己酉。
七十，丙午。
七十九，甲辰，中。
壬寅。
庚子。
戊戌。
乙未。
癸己。
辛卯。
己丑。
丙戌。
甲申，季。
壬午。
庚辰。
戌寅。
乙亥。
癸酉。
辛未。
己巳。
定七年。
丙寅。
甲子，孟。
八，壬寅。
十七，庚子。
二十六，丁酉。
三十五，乙未。
四十四，癸巳。
五十三，辛卯。
六十二，戊子。
七十一，丙戌。
八十，甲申，中。
壬午。
庚辰。
丁丑。
乙亥。
癸酉。
辛未。
戊辰。
丙寅。
甲子，季。
壬戌。
庚申。
丁巳。
乙卯。
癸丑。
辛亥。
僖五年。
戊申。
丙午。
甲辰，孟。
九，壬午。
十八，己卯。
二十七，丁丑。
三十六，乙亥。
四十五，癸酉。
五十四，庚午。
六十三，戊辰。
七十二，丙寅。
八十一，甲子，中。
壬戌。
己未。
丁巳。
乙卯。
癸丑。
庚戌。
戊申。
丙午。
甲辰，季。
壬寅。
己亥。
丁酉。
乙未。
癸巳。
懿九年。
庚寅。
戊子。
丙戌。
甲申，孟。
元朔六年。
推章首朔旦冬至日，置大余三十九，小余六十一，数除如法，各从其统首起。
求其后章，当加大余三十九，小余六十一，各尽其八十一章。
translation: 
Fourteen, Gengzi.
Twenty-three, Wuxu.
Thirty-two, Bingshen.
Forty-one, Jiawu.
Fifty, Xin Mao.
Fifty-nine, oneself are ugly.
Sixty-eight, Dinghai.
Seventy-seven, Yiyou, middle.
Guiwei.
Gengchen.
Wuyin.
Bingzi.
Jiaxu.
Xin Wei.
Jisi.
Ding Mao.
Yi Chou, Ji.
The first year of Taili in the Shang Dynasty. Guihai.
Gengshen.
Wuwu.
Bingchen.
Jiayin.
Xian Wang fifteen years.
Xinhai. Jiyou. Ding Wei.
Yisi, Meng. In the third year of Chu Yuan Dynasty.
Six, Renwu.
Fifteen, Gengchen.
Twenty-four, Wuyin.
Thirty-three, Bingzi.
Forty-two, Guiyou.
Fifty-one, Xin Wei.
Sixty, Jisi.
Sixty-nine, Ding Mao.
Seventy-eight, Jiazi, middle.
Renxu.
Gengshen.
Wuwu.
Bingchen.
Guichou.
Xinhai.
Jiyou.
Ding Wei.
Jiachen, Ji.
Renyin.
Gengzi.
Wuxu.
Bingshen.
In the twenty-fourth year of Yanggong's reign.
Guisi.
Xin Mao.
Oneself are ugly.
Dinghai.
The fourth year of King Xu's reign.
Jiashen, Meng.
Seven, Renxu.
Three years after the founding of the People's Republic of China.
Sixteen, Gengshen.
Twenty-five, Wuwu.
Thirty-four, Yimao.
Forty-three, Guichou.
Fifty-two, Xinhai.
Sixty-one, Jiyou.
Seventy, Bingwu.
Seventy-nine, Jiachen, middle.
Renyin.
Gengzi.
Wuxu.
Yiwei.
Guisi.
Xin Mao.
Oneself are ugly.
Bingxu.
Jiashen, Ji.
Renwu.
Gengchen.
Wuyin.
Yihai.
Guiyou.
Xin Wei.
Jisi.
Ding Gong seven years.
Bingyin.
Jiazi, Meng.
Eight, Renyin.
Seventeen, Gengzi.
Twenty-six, Dingyou.
Thirty-five, Yiwei.
Forty-four, Guisi.
Fifty-three, Xin Mao.
Six divination two, Wuzi.
Seventy-one, Bingxu.
Eighty, Jiashen, middle.
Renwu.
Gengchen.
Ding Chou.
Yihai.
Guiyou.
Xin Wei.
Wuchen.
Bingyin.
Jiazi, season.
Renxu.
Gengshen.
Ding Si.
Yimao.
Guichou.
Xinhai.
The fifth year of Duke Xi's reign.
Wu Shen.
Bingwu.
Jiachen, Meng.
Nine, Renwu.
Eighteen, Ji Mao.
Twenty-seven, Ding Chou.
Thirty-six, Yi Hai.
Forty-five, Guiyou.
Fifty-four, Gengwu.
Sixty-three, Wuchen.
Seventy-two, Bingyin.
Eighty-one, Jiazi, middle.
Renxu.
Ji Wei.
Ding Si.
Yimao.
Guichou.
Gengxu.
Wu Shen.
Bingwu.
Jiachen, Ji.
Renyin.
Jihai.
Dingyou.
Yiwei.
Guisi.
In the ninth year of Duke Yigong's reign.
Gengyin.
Wuzi.
Bingxu.
Jiashen, Meng.
Wings for six years.
Calculate the day of the winter solstice on the first day of the chapter: use Dayu thirty-nine and Xiaoyu sixty-one. Divide according to the rules, and each starts from his own head.
If we ask for its final chapters, we should add Dayu thirty-nine and Xiao Yu sixty-one, each completing his own eighty-one chapters.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
推篇，大余亦如之，小余加一。
求周至，加大余五十九，小余二十一。
世经《春秋》昭公十七年 郯子来朝 ，《传》曰：昭子问少昊氏鸟名何故，对曰： 吾祖也，我知之矣。
昔者，黄帝氏以云纪，故为云师而云名；炎帝氏以为纪，故为火师而火名；共工氏以水纪，故为水师而水名；太昊氏以龙纪，故为龙师而龙名。
我高祖少昊挚之立也，凤鸟适至，故纪于鸟，为鸟师而鸟名。
言郯子据少昊受黄帝，黄帝受炎帝，炎帝受共工，共工受太昊，故先言黄帝，上及太昊。
稽之于《易》，砲牺、神农、黄帝相继之世可知。
太昊帝《易》曰： 砲牺氏之王天下也。
言砲牺继天而王，为百王先，首德始于木，故为帝太昊。
作罔罟以田渔，取牺牲，故天下号曰砲牺氏。《祭典》曰： 共工氏伯九域。
言虽有水德，在火、木之间，其非序也。
任知刑以强，故伯而不王。
秦以水德，在周、汉木火之间。
周人迁其行序，故《易》不载。
炎帝《易》曰： 砲牺氏没，神农氏作。
言共工伯而不王，虽有水德，非其序也。
以火承木，故为炎帝。
教民耕农，故天下号曰神农氏。
黄帝《易》曰： 神农氏没，黄帝氏作。
火生土，故为土德。
与炎帝之后战于坂泉，遂王天下。
始垂衣裳，有轩、冕之服，故天下号曰轩辕氏。
少昊帝《孝德》曰少昊曰清。
清者，黄帝之子清阳也，是其子孙名挚立。
土生金，故为金德，天下号曰金天氏。
周迁其乐，故《易》不载，序于行。
颛顼帝《春秋外传》曰：少昊之衰，九黎乱德，颛顼受之，乃命重黎。
苍林昌意之子也。
金生水，故为水德。
天下号曰高阳氏。
周迁其乐，故《易》不载，序于行。
translation: 
Calculating the beginning of the chapter, Dayu is still thirty-nine, and Xiaoyu adds one.
Seeking Zhou Zhi, plus fifty-nine for the big one and twenty-one for the small one.
"Spring and Autumn" records in the 17th year of Duke Zhao that Tanzi came to see him. It is said that Zhaozi asked Shao Wu what the reason for his black name was. Shao Wu replied: "The black name comes from my ancestors. I know this."
In the past, the Huangdi tribe used clouds to remember things, so all the teachers of Baigong were named after cloud; the Yandi tribe used fire to remember things, so all the teachers of Baiguan were named after fire; the Gonggong tribe used water to remember things, so all the teachers of Baiguan were named after water; the Taiwu tribe used dragon to remember things, so all the teachers of Baiguan were named after dragon.
When my great ancestor Wu Zhi first founded the country, the phoenix bird happened to fly over, so he used the bird to record events, and all the officials and teachers were named after the bird.
It means that Tanzi accepted the throne from Huangdi according to Shaowu, Huangdi accepted the throne from Yandi, Yandi accepted the throne from Gonggong, and Gonggong accepted the throne from Taiwu, so we talk about Huangdi first and go all the way to Taiwu.
By studying the "Yi", we can know the era when Paoxi, Shennong and Huangdi succeeded each other.
Emperor Taiwu, "Yi" said: The Paoxi clan rules the world.
It means that Paoxi inherited the destiny and became king. As the leader of a hundred kings, the prosperity of the first four seasons began with wood, so he was called Emperor Taiwu.
He made nets for hunting and fishing, and selected pure-colored livestock for sacrifices, so the world called him Paoxi. "The Ceremony" says: The Gonggong clan dominated Kyushu.
It means that even if there is water virtue, it is not his place between fire and wood.
He becomes powerful through strategy and execution, so he is said to be a hegemon rather than a king.
Qin's water virtue was between the wood and fire of the Zhou and Han dynasties.
The Zhou people changed the order of their actions, so there is no record in the "Yi".
Emperor Yan, "Yi" says: After the death of the Paoxi clan, the Shennong clan began to rise.
It means that if Gonggong dominates the queen but not the king, even if he has the virtue of water, it is not his position.
Fire succeeds wood, so he is the Emperor Yan.
He taught the people to farm, so the world called him Shennong.
Huangdi, "Yi" says: After the death of Shennong, the Huangdi clan rose.
Fire generates earth, so it is the highest virtue.
He fought with the descendants of Emperor Yan at Banquan and ruled the world.
At the beginning, he ruled without doing anything, with Xuan chariots and crown uniforms, so the world called him Xuanyuan clan.
Emperor Shaowu, "Kaode" said that Shaohao was called Qing.
Qing was Qingyang, the son of Huangdi, and it was his descendants named Zhi who ascended the throne.
Gold is born in the soil, so it is the virtue of gold, and the world is called the Jintian clan.
The Zhou Dynasty changed his music, so it was not recorded in the "Yi", only recorded in action.
Emperor Zhuan Xu, "Chun Qiu Wai Zhuan" said that after Shao Wu grew old and Jiu Li deviated from his virtue, Zhuan Xu accepted the throne and appointed Chong He Li.
They are the sons of Cang Lin Changyi.
Metal generates water, so it has the virtue of water.
The world is called Gaoyang clan.
The Zhou Dynasty changed his music, so it was not recorded in the "Yi", only recorded in action.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
帝喾《春秋外传》曰：颛顼之所建，帝喾受之。
清阳玄嚣之孙也。
水生木，故为木德。
天下号曰高辛氏。
帝挚继之，不知世数。
周迁其乐，故《易》不载。
周人禘之。
唐帝《帝系》曰：帝喾四妃，陈丰生帝尧，封于唐。
盖高辛氏衰，天下归之。
木生火，故为火德，天下号曰陶唐氏。
让天下于虞，使子朱处于丹渊为诸侯。
即位七十载。
虞帝《帝系》曰：颛顼生穷蝉，五世而生瞽叟，瞽叟生帝舜，处虞之妫汭，尧嬗以天下。
火生土，故为土德。天下号曰有虞氏。
让天下于禹，使子商均为诸侯。
即位五十载。
伯禹《帝系》曰：颛顼五世而生鲧，鲧生禹，虞舜嬗以天下。
土生金，故为金德。
天下号曰夏后氏。
继世十七王，四百三十二岁。
成汤《书经·汤誓》：汤伐夏桀。
金生水，故为水德。
天下号曰商，后曰殷。
《三统》，上元至伐桀之岁，十四万一千四百八十岁，岁在大火房五度，故《传》曰： 大火，阏伯之星也，实纪商人。
后为成汤，方即世崩没之时，为天子用事十三年矣。
商十二月乙丑朔旦冬至，故《书序》曰： 成汤既没，太甲元年，使伊尹作《伊训》。
《伊训》篇曰： 惟太甲元年十有二月乙丑朔，伊尹祀于先王，诞资有牧方明。
言虽有成汤、太丁、外丙之服，以冬至越祀先王于方明以配上帝，是朔旦冬至之岁也。
后九十五岁，商十二月甲申朔旦冬至，亡余分，是为孟统。
自伐桀至武王伐纣，六百二十九岁，故《传》曰殷 载祀六百 。
《殷历》曰：当成汤方即世用事十三年，十一月甲子朔旦冬至，终六府首。
当周公五年，则为距伐桀四百五十八岁，少百七十一岁，不盈六百二十九。
又以夏时乙丑为甲子，计其年乃孟统后五章，癸亥朔旦冬至也。
translation: 
Emperor Xue, "Chun Qiu Wai Zhuan" said that what Zhuan Xiang established was accepted by Emperor Yu.
The emperor is the grandson of Qingyang Xuanxiao.
Water produces wood, so it is wood virtue.
The world is called Gaoxin clan.
Emperor Zhi succeeded him to the throne for an unknown number of years.
The Zhou Dynasty changed his music.
Therefore, there is no record in "Yi". People in Zhou Dynasty offered sacrifices to him.
Emperor Tang, "Emperor Lineage" says that Emperor Ying had four concubines. Chen Feng gave birth to Emperor Yao, who was granted a title in the Tang Dynasty.
When the Gao Xin family weakened, the world surrendered to Emperor Yao.
Wood generates fire, so it has the virtue of fire, and the world is called Tao Tang.
Later, he ceded the world to Yu and made his son Zhu Danyuan a prince.
Emperor Tang reigned for seventy years.
Emperor Yu, "Emperor Lineage" says, Zhuanxu begat Qiongcicada, and after five generations Gusou begat Gusou. Gusou gave birth to Emperor Shun, and placed Yu in the place where Yanshui bends, and Yao surrendered the world.
Fire generates earth, so it is earth virtue, and the world is called Youyu.
He ceded the world to Ding Yu and made his son Shangjun a prince.
Emperor Yu reigned for fifty years.
Boyu, "Emperor Lineage" says that Zhuanxu's fifth-generation grandson gave birth to Gun, who in turn gave birth to Yu, and Yu and Shun gave way to the world.
Gold is born in the soil, so it is gold virtue.
The whole world is called Xiahou clan.
He was succeeded by ten kings for a total of four hundred and thirty-two years.
Make soup. "Book of Books." "Tang Shi" records that Shang Tang attacked Xia Jie.
Metal generates water, so it has the virtue of water.
The world was called Shang, and later Yin:
"Santong Calendar" says that the year when Shangyuan came to conquer Jie was 141,480 years. The year of Jie was at the fifth degree of Da Mars and Fang Xing. Therefore, it is said that Da Mars is Ban Bo's star and is actually used to remember merchants.
Later, it was Chengtang. When he died, he had been worshiping him with the etiquette of the emperor for thirteen years.
In the twelfth month of the Shang Dynasty, the winter solstice occurred on the day of Yi Chou and Shuo, so the "Preface to the Book" says: After Cheng Tang died, in the first year of Taijia, Yi Yin was ordered to write "Yi Xun".
"Yi Xun" says: In the twelfth month of the first year of Taijia, Yi Chou Shuo, Yi Yin offered sacrifices to the late king, and the birth capital was Mu Fangming.
That is to say, even if there are the duties of Chengtang, Taiding, and Waibing, because during the winter solstice, they have to cross the bamboo mat that covers the car to sacrifice the ancestors in front of the statues of the gods to offer sacrifices to heaven. This is the year of the winter solstice on the first day of the lunar month.
Ninety-five years later, on the winter solstice of Jiashen and Shuodan in December of Shang Dynasty, there was nothing left, so Meng Tong was born.
Six hundred and twenty-nine years passed from Cheng Tang's crusade against Jie to King Wu's crusade against Zhou, so it is said that the Yin Dynasty recorded six hundred days of sacrifices.
"Yin Li" says that after the death of Tang Dynasty, sacrifices were made for thirteen years, beginning with the winter solstice on the first day of the eleventh month and ending on the first day of the sixth lunar month.
By the fifth year of Zhou Gong's reign, it had been 458 years since the expedition against Jie, which was 171 years short, less than 629 years.
According to the time of summer, Yichou is Jiazi, and its age is calculated as the fifth chapter after Meng Tong, the winter solstice on the first day of Guihai.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
以为甲子府首，皆非是。
凡殷世继嗣三十一王，六百二十九岁。
《四分》，上元至伐桀十三万二千一百一十三岁，其八十八纪，甲子府首，入伐桀后百二十七岁。
《春秋历》，周文王四十二年十二月丁丑朔旦冬至，孟统之二会首也。
后八岁而武王伐纣。
武王《书经·牧誓》：武王伐商纣。
水生木，故为木德。
天下号曰周室。
《三统》，上元至伐纣之岁，十四万二千一百九岁，岁在鹑火张十三度。
文王受命九年而崩，再期，在大祥而伐纣，故《书序》曰： 惟十有一年，武王伐纣，作《太誓》。
八百诸侯会。
还归二年，乃遂伐纣克殷，以箕子归，十三年也。
故《书序》曰： 武王克殷，以箕子归，作《洪范》。
《洪范》篇曰： 惟十有三祀，王访于箕子。
自文王受命而至此十三年，岁亦在鹑火，故《传》曰： 岁在鹑火，则我有周之分野也。
师初发，以殷十一月戊子，日在析木箕七度，故《传》曰： 日在析木。
是夕也，月在房五度。
房为天驷，故《传》曰： 月在天驷。
后三日得周正月辛卯朔，合辰在斗前一度，斗柄也，故《传》曰： 辰在斗柄。
明日壬辰，晨星始见。
癸巳武王始发，丙午还师，戊午度于孟津。
孟津去周九百里，师行三十里，故三十一日而度。
明日己未冬至，晨星与婺女伏，历建星及牵牛，至于婺女天鼋之首，故《传》曰： 星在天鼋。
《周书·武成》篇： 惟一月壬辰，旁死霸，若翌日癸巳，武王乃朝步自周，于征伐纣。
《序》曰： 一月戊午，师度于孟津。
至庚申，二月朔日也。
四日癸亥，至牧野，夜陈，甲子昧爽而合矣。
故《外传》曰： 王以二月癸亥夜陈。
translation: 
It is neither the first nor the last word of the year.
The Yin Dynasty succeeded indeed to thirty-one kings, totaling six hundred and twenty-nine years.
"Four Points Calendar" says that there were 132,113 years between the Shangyuan Dynasty and the crusade against Ji. Among them, the 88th century, Jiazi's first year, was included in the 127 years after the crusade against Jie.
"Spring and Autumn Calendar" says that in December of the 42nd year of King Wen of Zhou Dynasty, Ding Chou Shuo was the winter solstice, and he was the head of Meng Tong's second meeting.
Eight years later, King Wu defeated Zhou. King Wu, Book of Books.
"Mu Shi" King Wu attacked Shang Zhou.
Water produces wood, so it is wood virtue.
The world is called Zhou Shi.
"Santong Calendar" says that from the year of the Yuan Dynasty to the crusade against Zhou, there were 142,109 years, and this year was at the thirteenth degree of Quail Mars and Zhang Su.
King Wen died nine years after being ordered to do so, and after two years of fighting, he gathered troops to attack Zhou on the day of great auspiciousness. Therefore, the "Preface to the Book" says: In the eleventh year, King Wu attacked Zhou and wrote "Tai Shi".
Eight hundred princes gathered together.
Two years after he came back, he defeated Zhou and conquered Yin, and returned with Jizi, which took thirteen years.
Therefore, the "Preface to the Book" says: King Wu defeated Yin, returned with Jizi, and wrote "Hong Fan".
"Hong Fan" chapter says: In the thirteenth year, King Wu consulted Jizi on state affairs.
Thirteen years have passed since King Wen was ordered to do so by heaven, and this year is also in the Quail Fire. Therefore, it is said that the year of the year is in the Quail Fire, which is the division of the Zhou Dynasty.
The army began to set off, because in the eleventh month of the Yin Dynasty, the sun was at the seventh degree of Ximuji, so it is said that the sun was at Ximu.
This night, the moon was in the house at five degrees.
The accommodation is the Si star in the sky, so it is said that the moon is in the Si star in the sky.
Three days later, on Xin Maoshuo, the first month of the Zhou Dynasty, the place where the moon met was one degree in front of the bucket, which is the handle of the bucket. Therefore, it is said that the sun and the moon met at the handle of the bucket.
On the second day of Renchen, the morning star began to appear.
King Guisiwu began to send troops, Bingwu's army came back, and Wuwu crossed the river at Mengjin.
Mengjin is nine hundred miles away from Zhou, and the army marches thirty miles every day, so it will take thirty-one days to cross the river.
The next day, before the winter solstice, the Morning Star and Wu Nu were crouching, passing by Jianxing and Altair, until they reached the head of Wu Nu and Tian Ni. Therefore, it is said that the star is in Tian Ni.
"Book of Zhou." "Wucheng" chapter says: Renchen, the second day of the first lunar month. On the next day, Guisi day, King Wu set out from Haojing in the morning to conquer the merchants.
The preface says: On Wuwu day of the first month, the army crossed the river in Mengjin.
It was the first day of February when we arrived at Gengshen.
Siguihai arrived at Muye and set up military formations at night. At dawn, the military formations were ready.
Therefore, "Wai Zhuan" says: The king set up his military formation on the night of Guihai in the second month.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
《武成》篇曰： 粤若来三月，既死霸，粤五日甲子，咸刘商王纣。
是岁也，闰数余十八，正大寒中，在周二月己丑晦。
明日闰月庚寅朔。
三月二日庚申惊蛰。
四月己丑朔死霸。
死霸，朔也。
生霸，望也。
是月甲辰望，乙巳，旁之。
故《武成》篇曰： 惟四月既旁生霸，粤六日庚戌，武王燎于周庙。
翌日辛亥，祀于天位。
粤五日乙卯，乃以庶国祀馘于周庙。 文王十五而生武王，受命九年而崩，崩后四年而武王克殷。
克殷之岁八十六矣，后七岁而崩。
故《礼记·文王世子》曰： 文王九十七而终，武王九十三而终。
凡武王即位十一年，周公摄政五年，正月丁巳朔旦冬至，《殷历》以为六年戊午，距炀公七十六岁，入孟统二十九章首也。
后二岁，得周公七年 复子明辟 之岁。
是岁二月乙亥朔，庚寅望，后六日得乙未。
故《召诰》曰： 惟二月既望，粤六日乙未。
又其三月甲辰朔，三日丙午。
《召诰》曰： 惟三月丙午朏。
古文《月采》篇曰 三日曰朏 。
是岁十二月戊辰晦，周公以反政。
故《洛诰》篇曰： 戊辰，王在新邑，祭岁。命作策，惟周公诞保文、武受命，惟七年。
成王元年正月己巳朔，此命伯禽俾侯于鲁之岁也。
后三十年四月庚戌朔，十五日甲子哉生霸。
故《顾命》曰 惟四月哉生霸，王有疾不豫，甲子，王乃洮水 ，作《顾命》。
翌日乙丑，成王崩。
康王十二年六月戊辰朔，三日庚午，故《毕命丰刑》曰： 惟十有二年六月庚午朏，王命作策《丰刑》。
《春秋》、《殷历》皆以殷，鲁自周昭王以下亡年数，故据周公、伯禽以下为纪。
鲁公伯禽，推即位四十六年，至康王十六年而薨。
translation: 
"Wucheng" chapter says: In March, on the fifth day of Jiazi, King Zhou of Shang was killed.
One year was created, and there were still eighteen leaps left, which happened to be the middle period of the Great Cold. It was ugly in the second month of the Zhou Dynasty.
The next day is the leap month Gengyin Shuo day.
March 2nd is Gengshen’s Waking of Insects.
In April, Ji Chou and Shuo will die.
The dead tyrant is Shuo Ri.
To be born a hegemon is to look at the sun.
In this month, Jiachen is Wangri, and Yisi is the sixteenth day.
Therefore, the "Wucheng" chapter says: On the seventeenth day of the fourth month, on the sixth day of Gengxu, King Wu burned firewood and offered sacrifices to Zhou Temple.
On the second day of Xinhai, worship the throne of heaven.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, he led all the countries to offer sacrifices in Zhou Temple. King Wen gave birth to King Wu when he was fifteen years old, and he died in the ninth year after his death. Four years after the collapse, King Wu defeated the Yin Dynasty.
King Wu was eighty-six years old when he defeated the Yin Dynasty, and died seven years later.
So "Book of Rites." "The Prince of King Wen" says: King Wen lived for ninety-seven years, and King Wu lived for ninety-three years.
King Wu reigned for a total of eleven years, and Duke Zhou ruled for five years. On the first day of the first lunar month, Dingsi and the winter solstice, the "Yin Li" considered it to be Wuwu in the sixth year, seventy-six years after Yanggong, and the beginning of the twenty-nine chapters of Meng Tong.
Two years later, it was the seventh year of Zhou Gong, the year of Fu Zi Ming.
In February of this year, Yihai is Shuo, Gengyin is Wang, and six days later, Yiwei is.
Therefore, "Zhao Gao" says: February 16th, six days later is Yiwei.
In addition, in March this year, Jiachen fell on the new moon, and on the third day, Bingwu.
"Zhao Gao" says: In the third month of the third month, Bingwu is the first day of the lunar month.
The ancient text "Yue Cai" says: Three days is called Chu.
At the end of Wuchen in December of this year, Duke Zhou returned the government to King Cheng.
Therefore, the "Luo Gao" chapter says: In Wuchen, the king was in Xinyi, offering sacrifices to Sui and making plans. The Duke of Zhou assisted King Wen and King Wu to receive the destiny for seven years.
On the first day of the first month of the first year of King Cheng's reign, Bo Qin was appointed as a prince of Lu.
Thirty years later, Gengxu in April was the new day, and the moon began to shine on the 15th.
Therefore, "Gu Ming" says that on April 15th, King Cheng fell ill and did not participate in the activities. After Jiazi, King Cheng took a bath and wrote "Gu Ming".
The next day Yichou, King Cheng died.
Wuchen in June of the twelfth year of King Kang was a new day, and Gengwu was on the third day, so "Bi Ming Feng Xing" said: The moon appeared at Geng Wu in June of the twelfth year, and King Kang ordered people to write "Feng Xing".
Both "Spring and Autumn" and "Yin Li" are based on the Yin Dynasty. There are no years in Lu since King Zhou Zhao, so the years are calculated according to Zhou Gong and Bo Qin.
Uncle Qin, Duke of Lu, inferred that he reigned for forty-six years until King Kang's death in the sixteenth year.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
故《传》曰 燮父、禽父并事康王 ，言晋侯燮、鲁公伯禽俱事康王也。
子考公就立，酋。
考公，《世家》：即位四年，及炀公熙立。
炀公二十四年正月丙申朔旦冬至，《殷历》以为丁酉，距微公七十六岁。
《世家》：炀公即位六十年，子幽公宰立。
幽公，《世家》：即位十四年，及微公立，。
微公二十六年正月乙亥朔旦冬至，《殷历》以为丙子，距献公七十六岁。
《世家》：微公即位五十年，子厉公翟立，擢。
厉公，《世家》：即位三十七年，及献公具立。
献公十五年正月甲寅朔旦冬至，《殷历》以为乙卯，距懿公七十六岁。
《世家》：献公即位五十年，子慎公执立，嚊。
慎公，《世家》：即位三十年，及武公敖立。
武公，《世家》：即位二年，子懿公被立，戏。
懿公九年正月癸巳朔旦冬至，《殷历》以为甲午，距惠公七十六岁。
《世家》：懿公即位九年，兄子柏御立。
柏御，《世家》：即位十一年，叔父孝公称立。
孝公，《世家》：即位二十七年，子惠公皇立。
惠公三十八年正月壬申朔旦冬至，《殷历》以为癸酉，距釐公七十六岁。
《世家》：惠公即位四十六年，子隐公息立。
凡伯禽至春秋，三百八十六年。
春秋隐公，《春秋》：即位十一年，及桓公轨立。
此元年上距伐纣四百岁。
桓公，《春秋》：即位十八年，子庄公同立。
庄公，《春秋》：即位三十二年，子愍公启方立。
愍公，《春秋》：即位二年，及釐公申立。
釐公五年正月辛亥朔旦冬至，《殷历》以为壬子，距成公七十六岁。
是岁距上元十四万二千五百七十七岁，得孟统五十三章首。
translation: 
Therefore, it is said that Xiefu and Qinfu served King Kang together. This means that Xie, the Marquis of Jin, and Boqin, Duke of Lu, both served King Kang.
Boqin's son Kaogong ascended the throne, and Kaogong became the chief.
Kaogong, "Shijia" says that he reigned for four years until Yang Gongxi came to the throne.
The winter solstice occurred on Bingshen and Shuodan in the first month of the 24th year of Baogong. According to the "Yin Li", it was Dingyou, which was seventy-six years after Yaogong.
According to "Shijia", Duke Yang reigned for sixty years and his son You Gongzai came to the throne.
Duke You, according to "Shijia", reigned for fourteen years, and he came to the throne at Weigongfu, who was called Cao.
The winter solstice occurred on the first day of the first lunar month of the 26th year of Wei Gong. According to the "Yin Li", it was in Bingzi, 76 years after Xiangong.
"The Family" says that after Wei Gong reigned for fifty years, his son Li Gongzhai came to the throne, and Li Gongzhai was the one who promoted him.
Li Gong, "Shijia" says that he reigned for thirty-seven years and came to the throne with Xian Gonggui.
The winter solstice occurred on the first day of the first month of the fifteenth year of Xiangong, Jiayin and Shuodan. The "Yin Li" believed that it was at Yimao, which was seventy-six years away from Yigong.
"Shijia" says that after Duke Xian reigned for fifty years, his son Shen Gongzhi came to the throne. Shen Gongzhi was Xiu.
Duke Shen, according to "Shijia", he reigned for thirty years and ascended the throne to Duke Ao of Wu.
Wu Gong, "The Family" says that he reigned for two years, and his son Yigong came to the throne. Yigong's death was a drama.
The winter solstice occurred on the morning of the first day of the first month of the ninth year of Duke Yigong. The "Yin Li" believed that it was in the Jiawu period, seventy-six years after Duke Hui.
"Shijia" says that in the ninth year of Duke Yi's reign, his brother's son Bai Yu came to the throne.
Bai Yu, "Shijia" says that he reigned for eleven years, and his uncle Xiao Gong came to the throne.
Xiaogong, "Shijia" said that he reigned for twenty-seven years, and his son Hui Gong came to the throne.
The winter solstice occurred on the first day of the first month of the first month of the thirty-eighth year of Hui Gong, Renshen Chu. The "Yin Li" believed that it was in Guiyou, seventy-six years after Xi Gong.
"Shijia" says that during the forty-sixth year of Duke Hui's reign, his son Yin Gongxi came to the throne.
From Boqin to the Spring and Autumn Period, there were three hundred and eighty-six years.
Chun Qiu Yin Gong, "Spring and Autumn" says that he reigned for eleven years until Huan Gong Gui came to the throne.
In the first year of Yin AD, it was four hundred years before the expedition against Zhou.
Duke Huan, "Spring and Autumn" says that he reigned for eighteen years, and his son Zhuang Gong came to the throne.
Zhuang Gong, "Spring and Autumn" says that in the thirty-second year of his reign, his son Min Gong Qifang came to the throne.
Duke Min, "Spring and Autumn" says that he reigned for two years until Duke Xi ascended the throne.
The winter solstice occurred on the first day of Xinhai in the first month of the fifth year of Xi Gong. The "Yin Li" believed that it was at Renzi, which was seventy-six years after Cheng Gong.
This year has been 142,577 years since the Yuan Dynasty, and it is the beginning of the fifty-three chapters of Meng Tong.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
故《传》曰： 五年春，王正月辛亥朔，日南至。
八月甲午，晋侯围上阳。
童谣云： 丙子之辰，龙尾伏辰，服振振，取虢之旂。
鹑之贲贲，天策，火中成军，虢公其奔。
卜偃曰： 其九月十月之交乎？
丙子旦，日在尾，月在策，鹑火中，必是时也。
冬十二月丙子灭虢。
言历者以夏时，故周十二月，夏十月也。
是岁，岁在大火。
故《传》曰晋侯使寺人披伐蒲，重耳奔狄。
董因曰： 君之行，岁在大火。
后十二年，釐之十六岁，岁在寿星。
故《传》曰：重耳处狄十二年而行，过卫五鹿，乞食于野人，野人举塊而与之。
子犯曰： 天赐也，后十二年，必获此土。
岁复于寿星，必获诸侯。
后八岁，之二十四年也，岁在实沈，秦伯纳之。
故《传》曰董因云： 君以辰出，而以参人，必获诸侯。
《春秋》：釐公即位三十三年，子文公兴立。
文公元年，距辛亥旦冬至二十九岁。
是岁闰余十三，正小雪，闰当在十一月后，而在三月，故《传》曰 非礼也 。
后五年，闰余十，是岁亡闰，而置闰。
闰，所以正中朔也。
亡闰而置闰，又不告朔，故《经》曰 闰月不告朔 ，言亡此月也。
《传》曰： 不告朔，非礼也。
《春秋》：文公即位十八年，子宣公倭立。
宣公，《春秋》：即位十八年，子成公黑肱立。
成公十二年正月庚寅朔旦冬至，《殷历》以为辛卯，距定公七年七十六岁。
《春秋》：成公即位十八年，子襄公午立。
襄公二十七年，距辛亥百九岁。
九月乙亥朔，是建申之月也。
鲁史书： 十二月乙亥朔，日有食之。
《传》曰： 冬十一月乙亥朔，日有食之，于是辰在申，司历过也，再失闰矣。
言时实行以为十一月也，不察其建，不考之于天也。
translation: 
Therefore, it is said that Xinhai, the first month of the fifth year of Spring, is the new day, and the sun reaches the south.
In August, the Marquis of Jin surrounded Shangyang.
The nursery rhyme says: On the morning of Bingzi, the dragon's tail is lying in the morning, the army is uniformly dressed, and they capture the territory of Guo Kingdom.
The quails are scorched by the sparks, the heavenly policy is blanched, and the army is formed in the fire. The Duke fled.
Bu Yan said: Can I pay it in September and October?
Bingzi is dawn, the sun is at the end, the moon is at the beginning, and the quail fire is in the middle. It must be this time.
In the twelfth month of winter, Bingzi destroyed the Guo Kingdom.
People who use the calendar use the time of summer, so it is December in Zhou and October in summer.
This year, Suixing is on fire.
Therefore, it is said that the Marquis of Jin sent his servant Pi to attack Pu, and Chong'er fled to Di.
Dong Yin said: When you are traveling, the star of the year is on fire.
Twelve years later, it was the 16th year of Duke Xi, and the birthday star was on the birthday star.
Therefore, it is said that Chong'er left Di after staying in Di for twelve years. He passed by Wei Wulu and begged a farmer for food, and the farmer handed him a clod of soil.
Zifu said: This is a gift from God. In twelve years, he must obtain this land.
When the Sui star comes to the birthday star again, it will definitely capture the princes.
Eight years later, in the 24th year of Duke Xi, the star of the year was sinking, and Uncle Qin took him in.
Therefore, it is said that Dong Yin said: If you leave at Chen time and enter at Shen time, you will definitely capture the princes.
"Spring and Autumn" says that thirty-three years after Duke Xi reigned, his son Wen Gongxing came to the throne.
In the first year of Wen Dynasty, it was twenty-nine years before the winter solstice on the first day of Xinhai.
This year, there is a leap year on the 13th, which happens to be light snow. The leap year should be after November, but it is in March, so it is said that it is not in line with etiquette.
Five years later, there will be more than ten leap years. This year there is no leap year, but there is a leap year.
Leap is used to correct the new moon.
There is no leap month, but there is a leap month, and the new moon is not announced. Therefore, the scriptures say that there is no new moon in the leap month, which means that there is no such month.
Legend: It is against etiquette not to promulgate the new moon day.
"Spring and Autumn" says that after eighteen years of Duke Wen's reign, his son Xuangong came to the throne.
Xuangong, "Spring and Autumn" says that after eighteen years of his reign, his son Chenggong Heigong came to the throne.
The first day of the first month of the twelfth year of Chenggong was the winter solstice at Geng Yinshuo. The "Yin Li" believed that it was Xin Mao, seventy-six years from the seventh year of Dinggong.
"Spring and Autumn" says that eighteen years after Chenggong reigned, his son Xianggongwu came to the throne.
In the twenty-seventh year of Duke Xiang, it was one hundred and nine years away from Xinhai.
Yihai in September is the first day of the new moon, which is the month of Jianshen.
The history books of the State of Lu record: Yihai is the first day of the twelfth lunar month, and there is a solar eclipse.
Legend: Yihai in the eleventh month of winter is the new day, and there is an eclipse, so the morning is in the sun. This is the fault of the person in charge of the calendar, and the leap is missed again.
It means that I actually believed that the time was already in November, and I did not observe what Dou Jian was referring to, nor did I examine the celestial phenomena.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
二十八年距辛亥百一十岁，岁在星纪，故《经》曰： 春无冰。
《传》曰： 岁在星纪，而淫于玄枵。
三十年岁在訾。
三十一年岁在降娄。
是岁距辛亥百一十三年，二月有癸未，上距文公十一年会于承匡之岁夏正月甲子朔凡四百四十有五甲子，奇二十日，为日二万六千六百有六旬。
故《传》曰：绛县老人曰： 臣生之岁，正月甲子朔，四百四十有五甲子矣。
其季于今，三之一也。
师旷曰： 成子会于承匡之岁也，七十三年矣。
史赵曰： 亥有二首六身，下二如身，则其日数也。
士文伯曰： 然则二万六千六百有六旬也。
《春秋》：襄公即位三十一年，子昭公稠立。
昭公八年，岁在析木，十年，岁在颛顼之虚，玄枵也。
十八年距辛亥百三十一岁，五月有丙子、戊寅、壬午，火始昏见，宋、卫、陈、郑火。
二十年春王正月，距辛亥百三十三岁，是辛亥后八章首也。
正月己丑朔旦冬至，失闰。
故《传》曰： 二月己丑，日南至。
三十二年，岁在星纪，距辛亥百四十五岁，盈一次矣。
故《传》曰： 越得岁，吴伐之，必受其咎。
《春秋》：昭公即位三十二年，及定公宋立。
定公七年，正月己巳朔旦冬至，《殷历》以为庚午，距元公七十六年。
《春秋》：定公即位十五年，子哀公蒋立。
哀公十二年冬十二月流火，非建戌之月也。
是月也螽，故《传》曰： 火伏而后蛰者毕，今火犹西流，司历过也。 《诗》曰： 七月流火。
《春秋》：哀公即位二十七年。
自《春秋》尽哀十四年，凡二百四十二年。
六国《春秋》：哀公后十三年逊于邾，子悼公曼立，宁。
translation: 
The twenty-eighth year of Duke Xiang was one hundred and ten years away from Xinhai, and the stars were in the star year, so the scriptures say: There is no ice in spring.
Legend: The Sui star was in Xingji, but appeared in Xuanzhen by mistake.
In the thirtieth year of Duke Xiang's reign, the star was in Kunzi.
Thirty-one years old, the star is falling in Jianglou.
This year is one hundred and thirteen years from Xinhai, February Guiwei, and from the eleventh year of Duke Wen's meeting in Chengkuang. This year, Jiazishuo, the first month of summer, totals 445 Jiazi and twenty days, which is twenty-six thousand six hundred and sixty days.
Therefore, it is said that an old man in Jiangxian County said: In the year when I was born, Jiazi in the first lunar month was the new moon, which was four hundred and forty-five Jiazi.
The end of it is one-third of sixty.
Shi Kuang said: It was seventy-three years since He Chengzi formed an alliance with Chengkuang.
Shi Zhao said: Hai has two heads and six bodies. Take the two pictures above the character Hai and put them next to it, which is its number of days.
Shi Wenbo said: Then there are twenty-six thousand six hundred and sixty days.
"Spring and Autumn" says that thirty-one years after Duke Xiang reigned, his son Zhao Gongchou ascended the throne.
The star in the eighth year of Zhaogong was in Ximu, and the star in Zhuanxu's tenth year was Xuanzhu.
In the eighteenth year of Zhaogong, which was one hundred and thirty-one years away from Xinhai, there were Bingzi, Wuyin, and Renwu in the fifth month. Mars began to appear randomly, and there were fires in Song, Wei, Chen, and Zheng.
In the first month of Spring in the twentieth year of Duke Zhao, it was one hundred and thirty-three years before Xinhai. This year was the first of the eight chapters after Xinhai.
The first month of the first lunar month has Ji Chou and the first day of the lunar month, the winter solstice, and there are no leaps.
Therefore, it is said that Ji Chou arrived in the south in February.
In the 32nd year of Zhao Gong, the year of the year was in the Xing Ji, and it was one hundred and forty-five years since Xinhai.
Therefore, it is said that there is a star in the Yue Kingdom. If the Wu Kingdom attacks it, it will definitely be punished.
"Spring and Autumn" says that Duke Xiang reigned for thirty-two years until Duke Dinggong came to the throne in the Song Dynasty.
In the seventh year of Dinggong, the winter solstice occurred on the first day of the first lunar month. According to the "Yin Li", it was Gengwu, seventy-six years after the fifth Duke.
"Spring and Autumn" says that fifteen years after Duke Ding reigned, his son Aigong Jiang came to the throne.
In the winter and twelfth month of the twelfth year of Ai Gong, Mars gradually set in the west, which was not the month of Jianxu.
There are locusts in abundance this month, so it is said that the insect hidden treasure has been completed after Mars disappeared. Now Mars is still setting in the west. This is the mistake of the person in charge of the calendar. "Poetry" says: In July, Mars falls in the west.
"Spring and Autumn" records that Duke Ai reigned for twenty-seven years.
From the Spring and Autumn Period to the end of the 14th year of Duke Ai, there were a total of 242 years.
In the Six Kingdoms, "Spring and Autumn" records that Duke Ai abdicated the throne in Zhu thirteen years later, and his son Du Gongman came to the throne. Du Gongman was Ning.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
悼公，《世家》：即位三十七年，子元公嘉立。
元公四年正月戊申朔旦冬至，《殷历》以为己酉，距康公七十六岁。
元公，《世家》：即位二十一年，子穆公衍立，显。
穆公，《世家》：即位三十三年，子恭公奋立。
恭公，《世家》：即位二十二年，子康公毛立。
康公四年正月丁亥朔旦冬至，《殷历》以为戊子，距缗公七十六岁。
康公，《世家》：即位九年，子景公偃公。
景公，《世家》：即位二十九年，子平公旅立。
平公，《世家》：即位二十年，子缗公贾立。
缗公二十二年正月丙寅朔旦冬至，《殷历》以为丁卯，距楚元七十六岁。
缗公，《世家》：即位二十三年，子顷公仇立。
顷公，《表》：十八年，秦昭王之五十一年也，秦始灭周。
周凡三十六王，八百六十七岁。
秦伯昭王，《本纪》：无天子五年。
孝文王，《本纪》：即位一年。
元年，楚考烈王灭鲁，顷公为家人，周灭后六国也。
庄襄王，《本纪》：即位三年。
始皇，《本纪》：即位三十七年。
二世，《本纪》：即位三年。
凡秦伯五世，四十九岁。
汉高祖皇帝，著《纪》，伐秦继周。
木生火，故为火德。
天下号曰 汉 。
距上元年十四万三千二十五岁，岁在大棣之东井二十二度，鹑首之六度也。
故《汉志》曰：岁在大棣，名曰敦牂，太岁在午。
八年十一月乙巳朔旦冬至，楚元三年也。
故《殷历》以为丙午，距元朔七十六岁。
著《纪》，高帝即位十二年。
惠帝，著《纪》，即位七年。
高后，著《纪》，即位八年。
文帝，前十六年，后七年，著《纪》，即位二十三年。
translation: 
Mourning the Duke, "Shijia" records that thirty-seven years after his reign, his son Yuan Gongjia ascended the throne.
The winter solstice was bright on Wushenshuo day in the first month of the fourth year of Yuan Gong. The "Yin Li" believed that it was in Jiyou, seventy-six years before Kang Gong.
Yuan Gong, "Shijia" said that after his reign for 21 years, his son Mu Gongyan came to the throne, and Mu Gongyan became the emperor.
Mu Gong, "The Family" says that thirty-three years after his reign, his son Gong Gongfen came to the throne.
Gong Gong, "The Family" says that after 22 years of his reign, his son Kang Gongmao came to the throne.
The winter solstice dawned on the first day of the first month of the fourth year of Kanggong's reign, and the winter solstice occurred on the first day of the first month of the fourth year of Kanggong. The "Yin Li" believed that it was in Wuzi, seventy-six years after Min Gong.
Kanggong, "Shijia" said that he reigned for nine years, and his son Jinggong Yan came to the throne.
Jinggong, "Shijia" said that he reigned for twenty-nine years and was succeeded by his son Pinggong Lu.
Hu Gong, "Shijia" said that he reigned for twenty years, and his son Min Gong bought the throne.
The winter solstice was bright on Bingyinshuo day in the first month of the 22nd year of Min Gong. The "Yin Li" believed that it was in Dingmao, seventy-six years away from the Chu Yuan Dynasty.
Min Gong, "The Family" says that he reigned for twenty-three years and was succeeded by his son Qinggong Ru.
Qinggong, in the eighteenth year of the "Biao", which was the fifty-first year of King Zhao of Qin, Qin destroyed Zhou.
There were thirty-six kings in the Zhou Dynasty, which lasted for eight hundred and sixty-seven years.
King Zhao, the overlord of Qin, "Historical Records." There is no emperor for five years in "This Chronicle".
King Xiaowen, "Benji" says that he reigned for one year.
In the first year of King Xiaowen, King Kaolie of Chu destroyed Duke Qing of Lu and made him his servant. This was six years after the fall of Zhou.
King Zhuang Xiang, "Ben Ji" says that he reigned for three years.
Qin Shihuang, "Benji" says that he reigned for thirty-seven years.
Qin II, "Ben Ji" says that he reigned for three years.
Qin ruled for five generations and lasted forty-nine years.
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was recorded in the "Chronicles". He attacked Qin and succeeded the Zhou Dynasty.
Wood creates fire, so it is the virtue of fire.
The world is called Han.
It was one hundred and forty-three thousand and twenty-five years from the first year of the previous year. The Sui star was at the 22nd degree of the East Well of Dadi and the 6th degree of the Quail Head.
Therefore, "Han Zhi" says that the Sui star is in Dadi, called Dunyang, and Tai Sui is in Wu.
In November of the eighth year of the lunar month, the winter solstice dawned, and it was the fifth year of Chu.
Therefore, "Yin Li" believes that it was Bingwu, seventy-six years after Yuan Shuo.
"Benji" records that Zhihu reigned for twelve years.
Emperor Hui, "Ji" records that he reigned for seven years.
After Gao, "Ji" records that he reigned for eight years.
Emperor Wen reigned for sixteen years before and seven years after that. "Ben Ji" records that he reigned for twenty-three years.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
景帝，前七年，中六年，后三年，著《纪》，即位十六年。
武帝建元、元光、元朔各六年。
元朔六年十一月甲申朔旦冬至，《殷历》以为乙酉，距初元七十六岁。
元狩、元鼎、元封各六年。
汉历太初元年，距上元十四万三千一百二十七岁。
前十一月甲子朔旦冬至，岁在星纪婺女六度，故《汉志》曰：岁名困敦，正月岁星出婺女。
太初、天汉、太始、征和各四年，后二年，著《纪》，即位五十四年。
昭帝始元、元凤各六年，元平一年，著《纪》，即位十三年。
宣帝本始、地节、元康、神爵、五凤、甘露各四年，黄龙一年，著《纪》，即位二十五年。
元帝初元二年十一月癸亥朔旦冬至，《殷历》以为甲子，以为纪首。
是岁也，十月日食，非合辰之会，不得为纪首。
距建武七十六岁。
初元、永光、建昭各五年，竟宁一年，著《纪》，即位十六年。
成帝建始、河平、阳朔、鸿嘉、永始、元延各四年，绥和二年，著《纪》，即位二十六年。
哀帝建平四年，元寿二年，著《纪》，即位六年。
平帝，著《纪》，即位元始五年，以宣帝玄孙婴为嗣，谓之孺子。
孺子，著《纪》，新都侯王莽居摄三年，王莽居摄，盗袭帝位，窃号曰 新室 。
始建国五年，天凤六年，地皇三年，著《纪》，盗位十四年。
更始帝，著《纪》，以汉宗室灭王莽，即位二年。
赤眉贼立宗室刘盆子，灭更始帝。
自汉元年讫更始二年，凡二百三十岁。
光武皇帝，著《纪》，以景帝后高祖九世孙受命中兴复汉，改元曰建武，岁在鹑尾之张度。
建武三十一年，中元二年，即位三十三年。
translation: 
Emperor Jing reigned for seven years in the first seven years, six years in the middle, and three years in the last three years. "Ben Ji" records that he reigned for sixteen years.
Emperor Wu had six years each in Jianyuan, Yuanguang, and Yuanshuo.
In November of the sixth year of the Yuan Shuo period, the winter solstice falls on Jiashen Shuo day. The "Yin Li" believes that it is in Yiyou, seventy-six years after the beginning of the Yuan Dynasty.
Yuanshou, Yuanding and Yuanfeng each had six years.
The first year of the Taichu period of the Han calendar was 143,127 years ago.
In the first eleven months, Jiazishuo day dawned during the winter solstice, and the Sui star was in the sixth degree of Wunu. Therefore, "Mozhi" said that the Sui star was called Kundun, and the Sui star in the first month was in Wunu.
Taichu, Tianhan, Taishi, Zhenghe were four years each, and in the latter two years, "Ji" recorded fifty-four years in office.
Emperor Zhao was in the first year of Yuan and Yuan Feng for six years each, and Yuanping was one year. "Ji" records that he reigned for thirteen years.
Xuancha Kuipan, Dige, Wuchen, Yujian, Huhuang, and Julu were each four years old, Huanglong was one year old, and the "Ji" records that he reigned for twenty-five years.
In November of the 52nd year of Wu Tong Chi, the winter solstice occurred at the dawn of Guihai and Shuo. The "Yin Li" believed that it was in Jiazi, which was the beginning of Jiazi.
This year, the October solar eclipse is not a conjunction of Chen and Chen, and cannot be used as the beginning of the year.
Seventy-six years since I was born.
Ni Wu, Cheng Guang, and Jian Tui each had five years, Tong Ning had one year, and "Ji" records sixteen years of reign.
Emperor Cheng was in the fourth year of Jianshi, Heping, Yangshuo, Hongjia, Yongshi, and Yuanyan each, and in the second year of Suihe. "Ji" records that he reigned for twenty-six years.
It was the fourth year of Saihu's founding and the second year of Genchi's reign. "Ji" records that he reigned for six years.
Mangtong, "Ji" records that in the fifth year of his reign, he took Xuanhu's great-great-grandson plastic pendant as his heir and called him Bieyuan.
King Qiang, "Ji" records that for three years, Wang Ling devoured Wang Ling's castle in the morning. Wang Ling temporarily took the position of emperor and handled government affairs. He also stole the throne and privately named him the new royal family.
Five years after the founding of the country, six years after the founding of Tianfeng, and three years after Emperor Dihuang's death, "Ji" records that he stole the throne for fourteen years.
Gengshi Emperor, "Ji" records that he destroyed Wang Mang as a clan member of the Han Dynasty and reigned for two years.
The Red Eyebrow Army established the clan Liu Penzi and eliminated Emperor Gengshi.
From the first year of the Han Dynasty to the second year of Gengshi, there were a total of two hundred and thirty years.
Emperor Guangwu, "Chronicles" records that he revived the Han Dynasty as the descendant of Emperor Jing, the ninth grandson of Gaozu, by fate, and changed the Yuan Dynasty to Jianwu.
In the thirty-first year of Jianwu, the second year of Zhongyuan, he reigned for thirty-three years.


