Chunk 0: 
original: 
杜根字伯坚，颍川定陵人也。
父安，字伯夷，少有志节，年十三入太学，号奇童。
京师贵戚慕其名，或遗之书，安不发，悉壁藏之。
及后捕案贵戚宾客，安开壁出书，印封如故，竟不离其患，时人贵之。
位至巴郡太守，政甚有声。
根性方实，好绞直。
永初元年，举孝廉，为郎中。
时和熹邓后临朝，权在外戚。
根以安帝年长，宜亲政事，乃与同时郎上书直谏。
太后大怒，收执根等，令盛以缣囊，于殿上扑杀之。
执法者以根知名，私语行事人使不加力，既而载出城外，根得苏。
太后使人检视，根遂诈死，三日，目中生蛆，因得逃窜，为宜城山中酒家保。
积十五年，酒家知其贤，厚敬待之。
及邓氏诛，左右皆言根等之忠。
帝谓根已死，乃下诏布告天下，录其子孙。
根方归乡里，征诣公车，拜侍御史。
translation: 
◆The biography of Du Gen, whose courtesy name is Bojian, was from Dingling County, Yingchuan County.
His father, Du An, whose courtesy name was Boyi, was ambitious and upright when he was young. He entered Imperial College at the age of thirteen and was known as Qitong.
The dignitaries and relatives of the capital were all envious of his reputation. Some wrote to him, but Du An kept them in the wall without opening them.
Later, when the noble family and guests were arrested for the crime, Du An opened the folder and took out the book. The seal was still the same as before. Finally, he was not harmed. People at that time respected him very much.
He was the prefect of Ba County and had a strong political voice.
Dugan has an upright and down-to-earth nature and is impatient.
In the first year of Yongchu, he was elected as Xiaolian and appointed as a doctor.
At that time, Queen Hexi and Deng were in charge of the government, and the power was in the hands of their relatives.
Du Gen believed that Emperor An was old and should be in charge of political affairs, so he and his contemporaries wrote a letter to directly remonstrate.
The Queen Mother was furious, arrested Dugan and others, packed them in leather bags, and beat them to death in the palace.
Because Dugan was famous, the law enforcement officers quietly told the killers not to use too much force. Later, they pulled him out of the city in a car and Dugan regained consciousness.
The Queen Mother had the body examined, and Du Gen faked his death. For three days, maggots appeared in his eyes, so he was able to escape and work as a busboy in a hotel in the mountains of Yicheng.
For a total of fifteen years, the restaurant knew that he was a good person and treated him with respect.
When Deng was executed, everyone around the emperor said that Du Gen and others were loyal.
The emperor said that Du Gen was dead, so he issued an edict to the world to recruit his descendants.
As soon as Du Gen returned to his hometown, he was recruited into the public car and appointed as an imperial censor.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
初，平原郡吏成翊世亦谏太后归政，坐抵罪，与根俱征，擢为尚书郎，并见纳用。
或问根曰： 往者遇祸，天下同义，知故不少，何至自苦如此？
根曰： 周旋民间，非绝迹之处，邂逅发露，祸及知亲，故不为也。
顺帝时，稍迁济阴太守。
去官还家，年七十八卒。
翊世字秀明，少好学，深明道术。
延光中，中常侍樊丰、帝乳母王圣共谮皇太子，废为济阴王。
翊世连上书讼之，又言樊丰、王圣诬罔之状。
帝既不从，而丰等陷以重罪，下狱当死，有诏免官归本郡。
及济阴王立，是为顺帝，司空张告辟之。
晧以翊世前讼太子之废，荐为议郎。
翊世自以其功不显，耻于受位，自劾归。
三公比辟，不应。
尚书仆射虞诩雅重之，欲引与共参朝政，乃上书荐之，征拜议郎。
后尚书令左雄、仆射郭虔复举为尚书。
在朝正色，百僚敬之。
translation: 
First, Cheng Xushi, an official from Pingyuan County, admonished the Queen Mother to return to power and was convicted. At this time, he and Du Gen were recruited and elected as Shangshu Lang, and both of them were appointed.
Someone asked Dugan: When you were in trouble before, everyone in the world sympathized with your loyalty and you had many friends. Why did you suffer like this?
Dugan said: "It is impossible not to leave traces among the people. If I are discovered accidentally, disaster will befall my relatives and friends, so I did not do this."
During the reign of Emperor Shun, he was promoted to the prefect of Jiyin.
He resigned from office and returned home. He died at the age of seventy-eight.
According to the legend of Yishi, Yishi, whose courtesy name is Ji Ming, was studious when he was young and was familiar with Taoism.
During the Yanguang period, Fan Feng, the imperial minister, and Wang Sheng, the emperor's wet nurse, jointly slandered the crown prince and deposed him as King Jiyin.
Cheng Yishi wrote letters of defense one after another, saying that Fan Feng and Wang Sheng framed the crown prince and deceived the emperor.
The emperor refused to listen to him, so Fan Feng and others framed him with a serious crime and sent him to prison to be executed. An edict only removed him from his official position and released him to his own county.
When King Jiyin was established, he became Emperor Shun. Sikong Zhang Haobi promoted him.
Zhang Hao recommended Cheng Yi as Yilang because he defended the crown prince's dethronement before his death.
Cheng Yishi himself thought that his contribution was not great, and he was embarrassed to accept the position, so he asked to go back.
The three public forces frequently conquered and conquered, but they should not respond.
The minister's servant She Yuyi thought highly of Cheng Yishi and wanted to recruit him to participate in the government affairs, so he wrote a letter to recommend him and conscripted him as Yilang.
Later, the minister ordered Zuo Xiong and Pushe Guo Qian to appoint him as minister again.
He was unsmiling and unsmiling in the court, and all the officials respected and loved him.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
栾巴字叔元，魏郡内黄人也。
好道。
顺帝世，以宦者给事掖庭，补黄门令，非其好也。
性质直，学览经典，虽在中官，不与诸常侍交接。
后阳气通暢，白上乞退，擢拜郎中，四迁桂杨太守。
以郡处南垂，不闲典训，为吏人定婚姻丧纪之礼，兴立学校，以奖进之。
虽干吏卑末，皆课令习读，程试殿最，随能升授。
政事明察。视事七年，以病乞骸骨。
荆州刺史李固荐巴治迹，征拜议郎，守光禄大夫，与杜乔、周举等八人徇行州郡。
巴使徐州还，再迁豫章太守。
郡土多山川鬼怪，小人常破赀产以祈祷。
巴素有道术，能役鬼神，乃悉毁坏房祀，剪理奸巫，于是妖异自消。
百姓始颇为惧，终皆安之。
迁沛相。所在有绩，征拜尚书。
会帝崩，营起宪陵。
陵左右或有小人坟冢，主者欲有所侵毁，巴连上书苦谏。
translation: 
◆The biography of Luan Ba, named Shuyuan, was from Huang County, Wei County.
Good Taoism.
During the reign of Emperor Shun, he was a eunuch and served in Yeting. It is not his wish to be an official because he is a member of the Huang family.
He has a simple and upright temperament, and studies Confucian classics. Although he is a middle-ranking official, he does not associate with the regular attendants.
Later, the yang energy was unblocked and the body returned to its original shape. He reported to the emperor and requested to quit the eunuchship. He was elected as a doctor and moved to Guiyang as the governor.
Because Guiyang County was located in the southern border area and was not familiar with the classics, it established marriage and funeral etiquette for officials, established schools, and rewarded progress.
Even if they are minor officials, they are all allowed to study and take exams, and they will be promoted or given officials according to their abilities.
His political affairs were clear and he served for seven years. He asked to go home due to illness.
Li Gu, the governor of Jingzhou, recommended Luan Ba's political achievements, recruited Yilang, acted as Dr. Guanglu, and inspected the prefecture and county with Du Qiao, Zhou Ju and other eight people.
Luan Ba ​​sent him back to Xuzhou and then moved him to Yuzhang as governor.
There are many ghosts and monsters in the mountains and rivers in the county, and the people in the mountains often spend money to pray.
Luan Ba ​​had Taoist skills and could drive ghosts and gods, so he completely destroyed the sacrifices in those halls and exterminated the treacherous witches, so the monsters were naturally eliminated.
At first, the people were a little scared, but later they became peaceful.
He was appointed as the prime minister of the country. Wherever he went, he made political achievements and recruited ministers.
When the emperor died, he built the Xianling Mausoleum.
There are occasional tombs of villains on the left and right sides of the mausoleum. The majors wanted to destroy them, so Luan Ba ​​wrote letters repeatedly to remonstrate.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
时梁太后临朝，诏诘巴曰： 大行皇帝晏驾有日，卜择陵园，务从省约，茔域所极，裁二十顷，而巴虚言主者坏人冢墓。
事既非实，寝不报下，巴犹固遂其愚，复上诽谤。苟肆狂瞽，益不可长。
巴坐下狱，抵罪，禁锢还家。
二十余年，灵帝即位，大将军窦武、太傅陈蕃辅政，征拜议郎。
蕃、武被诛，巴以其党，复谪为永昌太守。
以功自劾，辞病不行，上书极谏，理陈、窦之冤。
帝怒，下诏切责，收付廷尉。
巴自杀。子贺，官至云中太守。
刘陶字子奇，一名伟，颍川颍阴人，济北贞王勃之后。
陶为人居简，不修上节。
所与交友，必也同志。好尚或殊，富贵不求合；情趣苟同，贫贱不易意。
同宗刘恺，以雅德知名，独深器陶。
时，大将军梁冀专朝，而桓帝无子，连岁荒饥，灾异数见。
translation: 
At this time, the Empress Dowager Liang was in charge of the government and issued an edict to interrogate Luan Ba: It had been a few days since the death of Emperor Daxing. When choosing a cemetery, it was necessary to save it. The cemetery was only twenty hectares, but Luan Ba ​​said something about the main person destroying the tomb.
Since it is not the truth, he should go to bed without retribution. However, Luan Ba ​​was stupid and liked to use himself. He also went to the court to slander the imperial court. He acted boldly and recklessly. This trend should not last long.
Luanba was convicted and imprisoned. He should be punished and not allowed to be an official. He was sent back home.
More than twenty years later, Emperor Ling came to the throne. General Dou Wu and Taifu Chen Fan assisted the government and recruited Yilang.
Chen Fan and Dou Wu were killed, and Luan Ba ​​was relegated to Yongchang Prefect because he was their ally.
He impeached himself based on his merits, but could not do it because of his illness. He wrote a letter of extreme remonstrance, complaining about the unjust case of Chen Fan and Dou Wu.
The emperor was angry, issued an edict, and arrested Jiao Tingwei.
Luan Ba ​​committed suicide, and his son Luan He became the governor of Yunzhong.
◆The biography of Liu Tao, Liu Tao's courtesy name is Ziqi, his famous name is Wei, he was a native of Yingyin County, Yingchuan County, and the successor of Liu Bo, the Zhen King of Jibei Province.
Liu Tao is a simple man and doesn't pay attention to details.
The friends you make must be of like-minded people. Everyone has different hobbies, so even if they are rich, they will not seek the same; if they have the same feelings and tastes, they will not change their intentions even if they are poor or lowly.
Liu Kai, who belonged to the same clan, was famous for his elegance and virtue, and he only thought highly of Liu Tao.
At that time, the general Liang Ji was in power, Emperor Huan had no sons, and there were many years of famine and disasters.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
臣闻人非天地无以为生，天地非人无以为灵，是故帝非人不立，人非帝不宁。
夫天之与帝，帝之与人，犹头之与足，相须而行也。
伏惟陛下年隆德茂，中天称号，袭常存之庆，循不易之制，目不视鸣条之事，耳不闻檀车之声，天灾不有痛于肌肤，震食不即损于圣体，故蔑三光之谬，轻上天之怒。
伏念高祖之起，始自布衣，拾暴秦之氅，追亡周之鹿，合散扶伤，克成帝业。
功既显矣，勤亦至矣。
流福遗祚，至于陛下。陛下既不能增明烈考之轨，而忽高祖之勤，妄假利器，委授国柄，使群丑刑隶，芟刈小民，雕敝诸夏，虐流远近，故天降众异，以戒陛下。
陛下不悟，而竞令虎豹窟于麑场，豺狼乳于春囿。斯岂唐咨禹、稷，益典朕虞，议物赋土蒸民之意哉？
又今牧守长吏，上下交竟；封豕长蛇，蚕食天下；货殖者为穷冤之魂，贫馁者作饥寒之鬼；高门获东观之辜，丰室罗妖叛之罪；死者悲于窀穸，生者戚于朝野：是愚臣所为咨嗟长怀叹息者也。
且秦之将亡，正谏者诛，谀进者赏，嘉言结于忠舌，国命出于谗口，擅阎乐于咸阳，授赵高以车府。
权去已而不知，威离身而不顾。古今一揆，成败同势。原陛下远览强秦之倾，近察哀、平之变，得失昭然，祸福可见。
臣又闻危非仁不扶，乱非智不救，故武丁得傅说，以消鼎雉之灾，周宣用申、甫，以济夷、厉之荒。
窃见故冀州刺史南阳朱穆，前乌桓校尉臣同郡李膺，皆履正清平，贞高绝俗。
穆前在冀州，奉宪操平，摧破奸党，扫清万里。
膺历典牧守，正身率下，及掌戎马，威扬朔北。
斯实中兴之良佐，国家之柱臣也。
宜还本朝，挟辅王室，上齐七燿，下镇万国。
臣敢吐不时之义于讳言之朝，犹冰霜见日，必至消灭。
translation: 
Liu Tao was studying in Taixue at this time, and Shangshu said: I heard that if people don't have heaven and earth, they can't live. If there are no people in heaven and earth, there is no spirit. Therefore, the emperor cannot be established without people, and people cannot have peace without the emperor.
Heaven and the Emperor, Emperor and man, are like head and feet, they depend on each other to walk.
I think that the Emperor is old and virtuous, at the height of his power, inherits the ever-lasting celebrations, follows the unchanging system, does not look at wars, does not listen to the sound of chariots, and does not suffer from natural disasters, nor does earthquakes or solar eclipses damage the Holy Body. Therefore, if you despise Sanguang's mutation, God will ignore it even if he is angry.
I think that Gaozu raised an army from the common people, cleaned up the evil government of Qin, eliminated all kinds of forces that wanted to be kings and hegemons, gathered the scattered people, rescued the dying and healed the wounded, and then he became an emperor. He made great contributions!
It’s very hard! Fu Ze left the throne and passed to His Majesty.
Your Majesty, instead of adding luster to the laws of your ancestors, ignored your great ancestor's diligence in conquering the world, borrowed sharp weapons at will, and neglected the power of the state, allowing ordinary villains to torture the people and harm the country. No matter far or near, everyone suffered from their abuse.
Therefore, heaven sent disasters and warnings to the emperor, but the emperor still did not wake up, causing tigers and leopards to dig holes in the field one after another, and jackals to "raise their children" in the spring. Is this what Tang Yao and Yu Shun meant when they governed the country and cherished the people?
Moreover, now the shepherds, guards and chief officials are greedy for money, like big pigs and snakes, devouring the country's wealth like silkworms eating mulberry leaves; money is the soul of redressing injustice, and poor people can only be ghosts of hunger and cold. The high-ranking family suffers the disaster of death, the wealthy family suffers the crime of demon rebellion; the dead are sad in their graves, and the sorrow and sorrow of life are all over the world; these are the things I often sigh over.
Moreover, when the Qin Dynasty was about to fall, those who were upright and admonished were often killed, while those who flattered and flattered were often rewarded. Good words were not dared by loyal officials to speak, and the fate of the country came from the words of those who harmed others. After appointing Zhao Gao as the order of Chefu, Yan Le was able to conspire with Zhao Gao to murder Hu Hai in Xianyang.
Power cannot be controlled or known by oneself. Power cannot be exercised by oneself and does not care. The situation of success and failure is the same in ancient and modern times. Please look at the collapse of Qiang Qin from a distance and the chaos of Emperor Ai and Ping from a closer look. Gains and losses are obvious, and they are disasters and blessings.
clearly visible. I also heard that in times of crisis, it is not the benevolent who cannot help them, and in troubled times, it is not the wise that cannot save them. Therefore, Wu Ding used Fu Shuo to eliminate the disaster of cauldron ears and pheasants, and his position was peaceful; King Xuan of Zhou used Zhongshan Fu to resolve the chaos of King Yi and King Li.
Zhu Mu, the former Jizhou governor of Nanyang, and Li Ying, the former Wuhuan captain and a native of the same county, were both upright and honest, with pure moral character.
Zhu Mu used to be in Jizhou. He enforced the law fairly, destroyed the traitors and wiped out the whole territory.
Li Ying served as Mu Shou, leading by example, managing the army and fighting, and his reputation spread far and wide in the north.
They are truly outstanding supporting talents of ZTE and the pillars of the country.
He should be asked to return to the imperial court and assist the royal family. He should be the same as Qi Yao, the light will shine, and he will control all countries and bring peace to the world.
If I dare to say such inappropriate words in a government that refuses to remonstrate, I will be destroyed like frost meeting the sun.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
臣始悲天下之可悲，今天下亦悲臣之愚惑也。
书奏不省。
时，有上书言人以货轻钱薄，故致贫困，宜改铸大钱。
事下四府群僚及太学能言之士。
陶上议曰：
圣王承天制物，与人行止，建功则众悦其事，兴戎而师乐其旅。是故灵台有子来之人，武旅有凫藻之士，皆举合时宜，动顺人道也。
臣伏读铸钱之诏，平轻重之议，访覃幽微，不遗穷贱，是以藿食之人，谬延逮及。
盖以为当今之忧，不在于货，在乎民饥。夫生养之道，先食后货。是以先王观象育物，敬授民时，使男不逋亩，女不下机。
故君臣之道行，王路之教通。
由是言之，食者乃有国之所宝，生民之至贵也。
窃见比年已来，良苗尽于蝗螟之口，杼柚空于公私之求，所急朝夕之餐，所患靡之事，岂谓钱货之厚薄，铢两之轻重哉？
translation: 
First I felt sad for the world, but now the world should feel sad for my stupidity!
The book was sent to the emperor, but the emperor did not accept it.
At that time, someone wrote a letter saying that because the goods were light and the money was thin, the country was poor and it should be recoined to make big money.
The emperor issued an order to discuss this matter with all officials in the four prefectures and the Imperial Academy.
Liu Tao made a proposal and said: The ancestors of the sages and kings worked in heaven and walked with the people.
When you make great achievements, everyone is happy to do it; when you mobilize troops and mobilize people, the soldiers are happy to obey orders. For example, when the spiritual platform was built, the common people came to participate as if they were sons. When King Wu of Zhou promoted the brigade, the soldiers were as happy as a bird catching algae. Every move is timely and in line with humanity.
I have read the imperial edict to make money and know that in order to unify opinions on priorities, the emperor visited the common people and spared no expense to the poor and lowly. Probably the most worrying thing now is not money, but the hunger of the people.
The principle of raising people is to ensure that they have food to eat first, and only then do they have money to spend. The ancient kings observed the heavenly phenomena, nurtured all things, and taught the people to work on time. The men worked hard to cultivate the fields, and the women did not give up.
In this way, the way of kings and ministers can be practiced, and the teaching of kings can be passed.
In this way, food is a national treasure and the most valuable thing for the people.
In recent years, good crops have been completely eaten by locusts.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
就使当今沙砾化为南金，瓦石变为和玉，使百姓渴无所饮，饥无所食，虽皇、羲之纯德，唐、虞之文明，犹不能以保萧墙之内也。
盖民可百年无货，不可一朝有饥，故食为至急也。
议者不达农殖之本，多言铸冶之便，或欲因缘行诈，以贾国利。
国利将尽，取者争竞，造铸之端于是乎生。
盖万人铸之，一人夺之，犹不能给；况今一人铸之，则万人夺之乎？
虽以阴阳为炭，万物为铜，役不食之民，使不饥之士，犹不能足无之求也。
夫欲民殷财阜，要在纸役禁夺，则百姓不劳饵足。
陛掀圣灯，愍海内之忧戚，伤天下之艰难，欲铸钱齐货以救其敞，此犹养鱼沸鼎之中，栖鸟烈火之上。
水木本鱼鸟之所生也，用之不时，必至焦烂。
愿陛下宽锲薄之禁，后冶铸之议，听民庶之谣吟，问路叟之所忧，瞰三光之文耀，视山河之分流。
translation: 
Textiles cannot meet public or private needs. What we are anxious about is two meals a day, and what we are afraid of is the endless labor of the country. How can we talk about the thickness of the money and the weight of the baht! Even if the gravel is now turned into gold, the tiles are turned into Bian He's jade, and the people are thirsty and have nothing to drink, and the hungry have nothing to eat, even though the virtues of the three kings and the civilization of Tang and Yu can not guarantee that there will be no internal chaos in the country!
The people can live without money and goods for a hundred years, but they cannot live without food for a day. So food is the most urgent need.
People who talk about money and goods do not know that agriculture is the foundation. They always say that making money is the most convenient. Some even want to take advantage of the opportunity to defraud and benefit the country.
The country's financial interests had been almost obtained, and they fought more wantonly, so the coining of money took place.
About ten thousand people minted money, and one person took it, but it still couldn't be supplied, let alone now one person minted money, and ten thousand people took it!
Even if the yin and yang are used as charcoal, and all things are used as copper, the people who do not eat, and the officials who are not hungry are still unable to satisfy this endless greed.
If we want to ensure that the people have enough food and clothing, the key is to stop labor and prohibit deprivation. In this way, the people will have plenty without working hard.
The Emperor Shengde sympathizes with the sorrow and sorrow of the people at home and feels that the world's wealth is exhausted. He wants to mint money to unify the currency to solve this difficulty. This is like raising fish in a boiling pot or perching birds in a burning tree.
Water and wood are the places where fish and birds live. If they are used at the wrong time, they will burn to death.
Please, Your Majesty, reduce the exploitation of the people and discuss the matter of making money later. Listen to the songs of the people, interview the sorrows of passers-by, watch the eclipse of the sun and moon, the misalignment of the stars, and the collapse of mountains and rivers.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
天下之心，国家大事，粲然皆见，无有遗惑者矣。臣尝诵《诗》，至于鸿雁于野之劳，哀勤堵之事，每喟尔长怀，中篇而叹。
近听征夫饥劳之声，甚于斯歌。
是以追悟四妇吟鲁之忧，始于此乎？
见白驹之意，屏营傍徨，不能监寐。
伏念当今地广而不得耕，民众而无所食。
群小竞进，秉国之位，鹰扬天下，乌抄求饱，吞肌及骨，并释无。
诚恐卒有役夫穷匠，起于板筑之间，投斤攘臂，登高远呼，使愁怨之民，响应云合，八方分崩，中夏鱼渍。虽方尺之钱。何能有救！
其危犹举函牛之鼎，絓纤枯之末，诗人所以眷袒顾之，潸焉出涕者也。
臣东野狂暗，不达大义，缘广及之时，对过所问，知必以身脂鼎镬，为天下笑。
帝竟不铸钱。
后陶举孝廉，除顺阳长。
translation: 
The people of the world and the major events of the country can all be seen clearly here, without any confusion. I once read "Poetry" and read the chapter about the wild geese flying in the wild, describing the hard work of the people. It was really pitiful.
Hundreds of walls must be built at the same time, regardless of the life and death of the people. I sighed and couldn't bear to read it.
Recently I heard the cries of hungry and toiling warriors, which are more miserable than the songs of wild geese.
So I think back to the time when the daughter of the Lu State's Qi House was crying while leaning on a pillar. She probably saw that the conscription in the State of Lu was too heavy, the people's life was too hard, and the country was in danger of collapse?
I read the poem "White Horse" in the Book of Songs, and I was so worried and anxious that I couldn't sleep.
Now the vast land cannot be cultivated, and the people have no food to eat. A group of harmful people, sharpened their heads to get in, took over the power and position of the country, and ran rampant in the world. The crows plundered and swallowed all the flesh and bones, leaving no one satisfied.
I am really afraid that laborers and poor craftsmen will suddenly rise up in the middle of their work, roll up their sleeves, throw away their axes, and raise a cry. The sorrowful and resentful people will respond. All directions will fall apart, and the country will be in ruins. Even a piece of money as big as a foot square cannot save it.
The national danger is like lifting a cauldron as big as a letter ox, hanging on the slender and withered wooden tip. This is the reason why the poet misses his country and can't help crying.
I am a wild man from Dong Ye who is secretly ignorant of the true meaning. I will ask you this question and my answer will be as above. He knew that he would be punished and be ridiculed by everyone in the world.
The emperor finally stopped minting money.
Later, Liu Tao promoted Xiaolian and appointed him as the chief of Shunyang.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
县多奸猾，陶到官，宣募吏民有气力勇猛，能以死易生者，不拘亡命奸臧，于是剽轻剑客之徒过晏等十余人，皆来应募。
陶责其先过，要以后效，使各结所厚少年，得数百人，皆严兵待命。
于是复案奸轨，所发若神。
以病免，吏民思而歌之曰： 邑然不乐，思我刘君。何时复来，安此下民。
陶明《尚书》、《春秋》，为之训诂。
推三家《尚书》及古文，是正文字七百余事，名曰《中文尚书》。
顷之，拜侍御史。
灵帝宿闻其名，数引纳之。
时，巨鹿张角伪托大道，妖惑小民，陶与奉车都尉乐松、议郎袁贡连名上疏言之，曰：圣王以天下耳目为视听，故能无不闻见。
今张角支党不可胜计。
前司徒杨赐奏下诏书，切敕州郡，护送流民，会赐去位，不复捕录。
虽会赦令，而谋不解散。
四方私言，云角等窃入京师，觇视朝政，鸟声兽心，私共鸣呼。
州郡忌讳，不欲闻之，但更相告语，莫肯公文。
translation: 
There were many traitors and cunning people in the county. When Liu Tao took office, he declared that he would recruit those brave, powerful and unafraid of death among the officials, no matter whether they were desperadoes or hidden bad guys. Therefore, more than ten people, including the Jiejie swordsman Guo Yan, came to apply.
Liu Tao denounced their past sins and wanted to see how they behaved in the future. He asked them to recruit their friends and get hundreds of people, all fully armed and waiting for orders.
So those cunning criminals were investigated and brought to justice, just like gods.
He was dismissed from office due to illness. The officials and the people missed him and made a song: I am depressed and unhappy, thinking about me, Mr. Tao, when will I come again to make peace for the people.
Liu Tao was familiar with Shangshu and Chunqiu and made annotations for these two books.
He highly praised the Shangshu and ancient texts of Xia Houjian, Xiahousheng and Ouyang Hebo, and corrected more than 700 text, and named it "Chinese Shangshu".
Not long after, he was granted the title of Imperial Censor.
Emperor Ling heard about his name for a long time and summoned him several times.
At that time, Julu Zhangjiao pretended to be a great road and deceived the people. Liu Tao, Fengche Captain Lesong and Yilang Yuan Gong jointly wrote a letter saying: The ancestors and kings used the eyes and ears of the people in the world to see and hear, so there is nothing that cannot be seen or heard.
Now Zhang Jiao's party members are countless.
In the past, Situ Yang Ci obtained an imperial edict, instructing the prefectures and counties to protect and deport refugees. Because Yang Ci was not in office, Zhang Jiao's gang members were not arrested.
Despite the pardon, they still did not disband.
The four parties secretly said that Zhang Jiao and others sneaked into the capital and inquired about the government affairs of the court. They were like animals and responded to each other.
The prefectures and counties were afraid and did not want to report to the court. It's just that you sue me and I sue you, but you won't publish it in writing.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
宜下明诏，重募角等，赏以国土。
有敢回避，与之同罪。
帝殊不悟，方诏陶次第《春秋》条例。
明年，张角反乱，海内鼎沸，帝思陶言，封中陵乡侯，三迁尚书令。
以所举将为尚书，难与齐列，乞从冗散，拜侍中。
以数切谏，以权臣所惮，徙为京兆尹。
到职，当出修宫钱直千万，陶既清贫，而耻以钱买职，称疾不听政。
帝宿重陶才，原其罪，征拜谏议大夫。
是时，天下日危，寇贼方炽，陶忧致崩乱，复上疏曰：臣闻事之急者不能安言，心之痛者不能缓声。
窃见天下前遇张角之乱，后遭边章之寇，每闻羽书告急之声，心灼内忍，四体惊竦。
今西羌逆类，私署将帅，皆多段时吏，晓习战陈，识知山川，变诈万端。
translation: 
It should be clearly stated that anyone who captures Zhang Jiao will be rewarded as a national scholar.
Anyone who sees Zhang Jue and does not arrest him shall be guilty of the same crime as Zhang Jue.
The emperor never woke up and ordered Liu Tao to compile the regulations of the Spring and Autumn Annals.
In the second year, Zhang Jiao rebelled and the world was in turmoil. The emperor recalled Liu Tao's words and made Liu Tao the Marquis of Zhongling Township. He moved to Shangshu Ling three times.
Because the person he recommended would be a minister and it was not suitable to be ranked with him, he requested that he be placed outside the official establishment and become an idle person. Appointed as a servant.
Because of his many heartfelt admonitions, the powerful ministers were afraid of him and transferred him to Jing Zhaoyin.
When you take office, you should spend tens of millions of dollars to repair the palace. The so-called "money to repair the palace" is "money to buy an official position". Liu Tao was poor and considered it shameful to spend money to buy an official position. He did not work because of illness.
The emperor valued Liu Tao's talents, forgave him his sins, and conscripted him into a position of admonition to the officials.
At that time, the country's situation was becoming more and more dangerous day by day, and foreign invaders and internal thieves were extremely arrogant. Liu Tao was worried about the collapse of the country and said to Shu: "I heard that an emergency is coming, so you can't speak slowly, and you can't speak quietly when you talk about heartbreaking things."
In front of the country, there was Zhang Jiao who caused chaos, but later he was plundered by the border bandits. As soon as I heard Yu Shu's urgent voice, my heart burned like fire and my whole body trembled.
Nowadays, the Xiqiang bastards appoint generals without authorization. Most of them are officials from Duan Yingshi. They are familiar with war, know the situation of mountains and rivers well, and are full of deceit.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
臣常惧其轻出河东、冯翊，抄西军之后，东之函谷，据厄高望。
今果已攻河东，恐遂转更豕突上京。
如是则南道断绝，车骑之军孤立，关东破胆，四方动摇，威之不来，叫之不应，虽有田单、陈平之策，计无所用。
臣前驿马上便宜，急绝诸郡赋调，冀尚可安¨事付主者，留连至今，莫肯求间。
今三郡之民皆以奔亡，南出武关，北徙壶谷，冰解风散，唯恐在后。
今共存者尚十三四，军吏士民悲愁相守，民有百走退死之心，而无一前斗生之计。
西寇浸前，去营咫尺，胡骑分布，已至诸陵。
将军张温，天性精勇，而主者旦夕迫促，军无后殿，假令失利，其败不救。
臣自知言数见厌，而言不自裁者，以为国安则臣蒙其庆，国危则臣亦先亡也。
谨复陈当今要急入事，乞须臾之间，深垂纳省。其八事，大较言天下大乱，皆由宦官。
宦官事急，共谗陶曰： 前张解事发，诏书示以威恩，自此以来，各各改悔。
translation: 
I was once worried that they would surprise me and copy the Western Army's retreat from Hedong and Feng Yi, and then go east to Hangu to take advantage of the high ground and take advantage of the danger.
Now they have indeed attacked Hedong, and what is terrible is that they have turned to attack Beijing.
In this way, the road to the south was cut off, the troops of the chariot and cavalry generals were isolated and helpless, Guandong was frightened, and the four sides were shaken. No one came to order, no one answered the call, and although Tian Dan and Chen Ping's strategies were ineffective, they did not work.
I once played on the stage. We must immediately stop the tax transfers in various counties, hoping for stability. The matter was handed over to the competent authorities and has been shelved to this day without anyone asking.
Now the common people in the three counties have fled, heading south to Wuguan and north to Hugu. They are all falling apart. I'm afraid they are still to come.
Now there are only three to four tenths left. The soldiers and civilians are mourning each other. The people have the idea of ​​​​escape and retreat to death, but have no strategy of going to the front line to fight for survival.
The enemy in the west gradually moved forward and was very close to our position. The Hu cavalry had already arrived at the cemeteries.
General Zhang Wen is strong and brave, but the leadership is pressing day and night, and the army has no backup. If it fails, it will be irreparable.
I know that I am annoying when I talk too much, but I still keep talking because when the country is peaceful, I will be happy. If the country is in chaos, I will die first.
Here are eight urgent matters today. Please adopt them immediately. The so-called eight things mainly mean that the country is in chaos, all due to eunuchs.
The eunuchs were anxious, and they framed Liu Tao, saying: "In the past, when Zhang Jiao's incident happened, both edicts and grace were used. From then on, everyone repented."


Chunk 11: 
original: 
今者四方安静，而陶疾害圣政，专言妖孽。州郡不上，陶何缘知？
疑陶与贼通情。
于是收陶，下黄门北寺狱，掠按日急。
陶自知必死，对使者曰： 朝廷前封臣云何？
今反受邪谮，恨不与伊、吕同畴，而以三仁为辈。
遂闭气而死，天下莫不痛之。
陶著书数十万言，又作《七曜论》、《匡老子》、《反韩非》、《复孟轲》，及上书言当世便事、条教、赋、奏、书、记、辩疑，凡百余篇。
时，司徒东海陈耽，亦以非罪与陶俱死，耽以忠正称，历位三司。
光和五年，诏公卿以谣言举刺史、二千石为民蠹害者。
时太尉许戫、司空张济承望内官，受取货赂，其宦者子弟宾客，虽贪污秽浊，皆不敢问，而虚纠边远小郡清修有惠化者二十六人。
吏人诣阙陈诉，耽与议郎曹操上言： 公卿所举，率党其私，所谓放鸱枭而囚鸾凤。
其言忠切，帝以让戫、济，由是诸坐谣言征者悉拜议郎。
宦官怨之，遂诬陷耽死狱中。
李云字行祖，甘陵人也。
性好学，善阴阳。
初举孝廉，再迁白马令。
桓帝延熹二年，诛大将军梁冀，而中常侍单超等五人皆以诛冀功并封列侯，专权选举。又立掖庭民女氏为皇后，数月间，后家封者四人，赏赐巨万。
translation: 
Now that there is peace in all directions, Liu Tao hates the lack of political clarity in the court and talks about Zhang Jiao as a monster. The prefectures and counties did not report it. How did Liu Tao know this?
We suspect that Liu Tao is in contact with thieves.
So Liu Tao was arrested and imprisoned in the Huangmen North Temple Prison. He was tortured and whipped every day. Liu Tao knew that he would definitely die.
He said to the envoy: What did the imperial court say when it made me the Marquis of Zhongling Township?
Now he is being framed for it. What is hateful is that he cannot be in the same class as Yi Yin and Tai Gong, but he is in the same generation as Wei Zi, Ji Zi and Bigan.
If one dies by holding one's breath, there will be no one in the world who is not grieved.
Liu Tao wrote hundreds of thousands of words, and also wrote "Qi Yao Lun", "Kuang Laozi", "Anti-Han Fei", "Reply to Mencius" and letters on current affairs, doctrines, poems, memorials, notes, and debates, totaling more than 100 articles.
At this time, Situ Donghai and Chen Dan also died together with Liu Tao without guilt. Chen Dan was praised for his loyalty and held the position of three ministers.
In the fifth year of Guanghe's reign, officials were ordered to report those who caused harm to the governor and Erqian Shi based on the folk songs.
At that time, Taiwei Xu Youyou and Sikong Zhangji looked at the eunuch's face and took bribes. Although the eunuch's children and guests were corrupt and despicable, they didn't dare to ask. Instead, they falsely reported and accused twenty-six of the governors of small counties in remote areas who were honest and had good governance.
Officials and people went to the capital to complain. Chen Dan and Yilang Cao Cao wrote to Cao Cao, saying: "The ministers are too protective of people related to them. The so-called report is to let the owl go and imprison Luan Feng."
What he said was true, so the emperor ordered Xu Youhou and Zhang Ji to go. Because of this, those who were convicted of rumors were awarded the rank of Yilang.
The eunuch had a grudge and framed Chen Dan for death in prison.
◆Li Yunzhuan, Li Yunzi Xingzu, a native of Ganling County.
He is eager to learn and has good communication with yin and yang.
He was promoted to Xiaolian at first and then magistrate of Baima County.
In the second year of Emperor Huan's reign of Emperor Yanxi, he executed the general Liang Ji. Shan Chao and five other people were granted the title of marquis because of their merit in killing Liang Ji. He also appointed Bo, a popular woman from Yeting, as the queen. Within a few months, the queen's family was awarded huge rewards to the four people who were granted the title.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
是时，地数震裂，众灾频降。
云素刚，忧国将危，心不能忍，乃露布上书，移副三府，曰：
臣闻皇后天下母，德配坤灵，得其人则五氏来备，不得其人则地动摇宫。
比年灾异，可谓多矣，皇天之戒，可谓至矣。
高祖受命，至今三百六十四岁，君期一周，当有黄精代见，姓陈、项、虞、田、许氏，不可令此人居太尉、太傅典兵之官。
举厝至重，不可不慎。
班功行赏，宜应其实。
梁冀虽持权专擅，糯流天下，今以罪行诛，犹召家臣榏杀之耳。
而猥封谋臣万户以上，高祖闻之，得无见非？
西钡列将，得无解体？
孔子曰： 帝者，谛也。
今官位错乱，小人谄进，财货公行，政化日损，尺一拜用不经御省。
是帝欲不谛乎？
帝得奏震怒，下有司逮云，诏尚书都护剑戟送黄门北寺狱，使中常侍管霸与御史廷尉杂考之。
translation: 
At this time, there were many earthquakes and various disasters struck one after another.
Li Yunping had always been upright and worried about the danger to the country, and he couldn't bear it in his heart. As a last resort, he publicly reported it to the emperor and sent a copy to the Sangong Mansion.
The memorial said: I heard that the queen is the mother of the world, and her virtue is comparable to the spirit of the earth. The Queen wins someone, Yu? Fire, wind, and cold all come, and no one can be found. The earth will tremble, and the palace will be shaken.
There have been many disasters in recent years! God’s warning is beyond measure!
It has been three hundred and sixty-four years since Emperor Gaozu was appointed. During the first week of the emperor's period, Huang Jing will appear on his behalf. Anyone with the surname Chen, Xiang, Yu, Tian and Xu cannot hold military power as a Taiwei or Taifu.
All measures are vital and must not be taken carelessly.
Rewards based on merit should be worthy of the name.
Although Liang Ji was in power, acting arbitrarily and tyrannizing the world, it was as easy as asking a minister to kill him if he was found guilty.
It's just that he was good at appointing advisers to more than ten thousand households. If Gaozu knew about it, would he agree?
Will the Northwest generals disintegrate?
Confucius said: The emperor is truth.
This means that the emperor must examine everything. Nowadays, official positions are in disarray, villains are promoted to higher positions due to flattery, bribes are given and accepted, and the political education is carried out in public, which is getting worse every day. The memorial was issued without being reviewed by the emperor.
Could it be that the emperor didn’t want to be honest?
After the emperor read the memorial, he became furious and ordered the officials to arrest Li Yun. The Shangshu Protector-General escorted him to the Huangmen Beisi Prison with armed force, and ordered Zhongchang Attendant Guan Ba ​​and Yu Shi Tingwei to interrogate him.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
时，弘农五官掾杜众伤云以忠谏获罪，上书愿与云同日死。
帝愈怒，遂并下廷尉。
大鸿胪陈蕃上疏救云曰： 李云所言，虽不识禁忌，干上逆旨，其意归于忠国而已。
昔高祖忍周昌不讳之谏，成帝赦朱云腰领之诛。
今日杀云，臣恐剖心之讥即议于世矣。
故敢触龙鳞，冒昧以请。
太常杨秉、洛阳市长沐茂、郎中上官资并上疏请云。
帝恚甚，有司奏以为大不敬。
诏切责蕃、秉，免归田里；茂、资贬秩二等。
时，帝在濯龙池，管霸奏云等事。
霸诡言曰： 李云野泽愚儒，杜众郡中小吏，出于狂戆，不足加罪。
帝谓霸曰： 帝欲不谛，是何等语，而常侍欲原之邪？
顾使小黄门可其奏，云、众皆死狱中。
后冀州刺史贾琮使行部，过祠云墓，刻石表之。
论曰：礼有五谏，讽为上。
translation: 
At that time, Hongnong Wuguandu and Du Zhong took pity on Li Yun and wrote a letter willing to die on the same day as Li Yun.
The emperor became even more angry and sent Du Zhong to the court.
Dahonglu and Chen Fan came to Li Yun's rescue and said: Although Li Yun did not know what should be said and what should not be said, and even violated the emperor's will, his original intention was to be loyal to the emperor.
In the past, Emperor Gaozu tolerated Zhou Chang's remonstrances, and Emperor Cheng pardoned Zhu Yun's death penalty.
Killing Li Yun today, I am afraid that the incident that the predecessors ridiculed King Zhou of Pibi Ganxin will happen again today!
So he dared to offend Long Lin and speak out recklessly.
Taichang Yang Bing, Luoyang Mayor Mu Mao, and doctors all went to Shu to request Li Yun's rescue.
The emperor was very angry, and the people in charge reported that these people were disrespectful.
An edict was issued to severely reprimand Chen Fan and Yang Bing, remove them from their official positions and send them back to the fields; Mu Mao and Shangguan were demoted to two levels.
At this time, the emperor was in Zhuolongchi, Guan Ba ​​Shang reported to Li Yun and other matters.
Guan Ba ​​requested: "Li Yun is a foolish scholar in the countryside, and Du Zhong is a small official in the county. They are not worthy of being punished because of their temporary arrogance."
The emperor said to Guan Ba: "The emperor's desire is not true. What are you talking about!" Does Chang Shi want to forgive them?
Xiao Huangmen approved his memorial. Li Yun and Zheng Zhong both died in prison.
Later, Jia Cong, the governor of Jizhou, visited the county, went to Li Yun's tomb to worship, and carved a stone to commemorate him.
The historian commented: Li has five kinds of admonishment: ironic admonishment, obedient admonishment, quell admonishment, pointing admonishment, and trapping admonition, among which satirical admonishment ranks first.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
若夫托物见情，因文载旨，使言之者无罪，闻之者足以自戒，贵在于意达言从，理归乎正。
曷其绞讦摩上，以沽成名哉？
李云草茅之生，不识失身之义，遂乃露布帝者，班檄三公，至于诛死而不顾，斯岂古之狂也！
夫未信而谏，则以为谤己，故说者识其难焉。
刘瑜字季节，广陵人也。
高祖父广陵靖王。
父辩，清河太守。
瑜少好经学，尤善图谶、天文、历算之术。州郡礼请不就。
延熹八年，太尉杨秉举贤良方正，及到京师，上书陈事曰：臣瑜自念东国鄙陋，得以丰沛枝胤，被蒙复除，不给卒伍。
故太尉杨秉知臣窃窥典籍，猥见显举，诚冀臣愚直，有补万一。
而秉忠谟不遂，命先朝露。
臣在下土，听闻歌谣，骄臣虐政之事，远近呼嗟之音，窃为辛楚，泣血涟如。
幸得引录，备答圣问，泄写至情，不敢庸回。
translation: 
Borrowing objects to express one's feelings and writing articles to state one's intentions, the most important thing is that the meaning is clear, the language is smooth, and the truth is pure.
Why are you so eager to show off and gain fame?
Li Yun is a commoner in the grassland who does not understand the principle of losing his virginity if he keeps secrets from his ministers. He dares to publicly report to the emperor and the three princes, regardless of life and death. Is this what the madmen in ancient times were like?
If he fails to gain the emperor's trust and remonstrates with the emperor, the emperor will think that the remonstrance is slander against him. So when speaking, you should understand the difficulties of speaking!
◆The biography of Liu Yu, named Jiji, was from Guangling.
His great-great-grandfather was King Jing of Guangling.
His father, Liu Bian, was the prefect of Qinghe.
When Liu Yu was young, he was fond of studying Confucian classics, and was particularly good at the art of astronomy, calculus, and arithmetic. The prefecture and county invited him politely and refused to go.
In the eighth year of Yanxi's reign, Taiwei Yang Bing praised him as a virtuous and upright man. When he came to the capital, he wrote a letter saying: I think that the Eastern Kingdom is humble. Because I am a descendant of the Liu family, I am exempted from corvee service and not sent to the army.
The late Taiwei Yang Bing knew that I had read some classics, so he thought highly of me and recommended me as a virtuous and upright person. He really hoped that I could make some contribution to the country.
Yang Bing's talents for the country were not put to use, and unfortunately he died too early.
When I was in the countryside, I heard some songs about proud ministers who brutally harmed the people. There were sighs and sighs everywhere. The most bitter and unpleasant smell made people cry.
I am happy to be recommended. When answering the emperor's questions, I should express my feelings with complete loyalty and not dare to deceive others.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
诚愿陛下且以须臾之虑，览今往之事，人何为咨嗟，天曷为动变。
盖诸侯之位，上法四七，垂文炳燿，关之盛衰者也。
今中官邪孽，比肩裂土，皆竞立胤嗣，继体传爵，或乞子疏属，或买兒市道，殆乖开国承家之义。
古者天子一娶九女，娣侄有序，《河图》授嗣，正在九房。
今女嬖令色，充积闺帷，皆当盛其玩饰，冗食空宫，劳散精神，生长六疾。
此国之费也，生之伤也。
且天地之性，阴阳正纪，隔绝其道，则水旱为并。《诗》云： 五日为期，六日不詹 。
怨旷作歌，仲尼所录。
况从幼至长，幽藏殁身。
及常侍、黄门，亦广妻娶。怨毒之气，结成妖眚。
行路之言，官发略人女，取而复置，转相惊惧。
熟不悉然，无缘空生此谤。
translation: 
I sincerely ask Your Majesty to take a moment to look at the facts of the past and today. Why do people lament and sigh, and why does heaven change?
Most of the positions of the princes are in the twenty-eight constellations of the Dharma, guarding the four directions for the emperor, and the celestial phenomena shine. This is a major event related to the rise and fall of the country.
Nowadays, the eunuchs are so evil that they are tearing apart the soil and making marquises. They are also vying to create offspring and inherit the title. Some beg sons from estranged relatives, and some buy sons on the street. This goes against the founding principles of inheriting the family.
In ancient times, the emperor married nine daughters at a time, and the daughters were kept in an orderly manner without any confusion. Hetu conferred heirs in the ninth house.
Nowadays, beauties and seduces fill the harem, and they are provided with treasures and ornaments. They eat without working. The palace is empty, the energy is exhausted, and all kinds of diseases occur.
The country is consumed and the body is damaged.
The characteristics of heaven and earth are that the yin and yang are in the correct period. If the yin and yang are not separated, floods or droughts will occur. "The Book of Songs" says: Five days are the limit, six days are not enough.
I made an appointment to come back in five days, but still haven't come back in six days. This is a song of women missing their husbands. Confucius recorded it.
What's more, these palace maids have been hiding in the deep palaces since they were young. You can imagine their resentment.
In addition, eunuchs such as Chang Shi and Huang Men also took many wives and concubines, and their malicious spirit created monsters and sins.
Pedestrians on the road said that officials robbed other people's girls and then married them and then abandoned them. Everyone was frightened by this.
Who doesn't know? Such rumors would never happen without reason.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
邹衍匹夫，杞氏匹妇，尚有城崩霜陨之异；况乃群辈咨怨，能无感乎！
昔秦作阿房，国多刑人。
今第舍增多，穷极奇巧，掘山攻石，不避时令。促以严刑，威以正法。
民无罪而复入之，民有田而复夺之。
州郡官府，各自考事，奸情赇赂，皆为吏饵。
民愁郁结，起入贼党，官辄兴兵，诛讨其罪。
贫困之民，或有卖其首级以要酬赏，父兄相代残身，妻孥相视分裂。
穷之如彼，伐之如此，岂不痛哉！
又陛下以北辰之尊，神器之宝，而微行近习之家，私幸宦者之舍，宾客市买，熏灼道路，因此暴纵，无所不容。
于是特诏召瑜问灾咎之征，指事案经谶以对。
势政者欲令瑜依违其辞，而更策以它事。
translation: 
Zou Yan was no more than an ordinary man, and Qi was no more than an ordinary woman. Zou Yan was loyal and yet he was wronged, and Qi was crying over her husband's body, which caused frost in the fifth month and the city collapsed in seven days. What's more, such a large group of people were complaining and resentful. Wouldn't they be sensitive to it?
In the past, Qin Shihuang built Afang Palace, and many people committed crimes in the country.
Nowadays, the princes have more and more mansions, which are very ingenious. They dig mountains and dig stones. They do not care whether they are busy in farming or not. They are forced to use harsh criminal laws and threaten them with the laws of the country.
The people are originally innocent, but they can be charged at will; the people originally have land, and they can rob it at will.
The state and county governments interrogate prisoners individually, and bribery for adultery are all ways for officials to make money.
The common people could not express their sorrows and grievances, so they rose up to join the bandits, and the government therefore used arms to attack them.
Poor people even sold their heads to get rewards, fathers and brothers mutilated each other's bodies, and husbands and wives separated each other.
Isn't it sad to be in such poverty and persecution?
Also, the emperor is as noble as Beichen and the lord of the country, but he casually walks into the homes of some people and enters the eunuch's room. The guests therefore buy things in the city, the streets are noisy, and rape and indulgence are reached to the extreme.
Now that the three princes are in office, they are all knowledgeable and highly virtuous people. However, they are only upright themselves and cannot be of much help to the emperor. It is not that they lack knowledge and ability, but they are afraid of the death penalty.
I think the emperor appointed seven ministers, including three ministers, Qianyi, Houcheng, Zuofu and Youbi.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
瑜复悉心以对，八千余言，有切于前，帝竟不能用。
拜为议郎。及帝崩，大将军窦武欲大诛宦官，乃引瑜为侍中，又以侍中尹勋为尚书令，共同谋画。
及武败，瑜、勋并被诛。事在《武传》。
勋字伯元，河南人。
从祖睦为太尉，睦孙颂为司徒。
勋为人刚毅直方。
少时每读书，得忠臣义士之事，未尝不投书而仰叹。
自以行不合于当时，不应州郡公府礼命。
桓帝时，以有道征，四迁尚书令。
延熹中，诛大将军梁冀，帝召勋部分众职，甚有方略，封宜阳乡侯。
仆射霍谞，尚书张敬、欧阳参、李伟、虞放、周永，并封亭侯。
勋后再迁至九卿，以病免，拜为侍中。
八年，中常侍具瑗、左忄官等有罪免，夺封邑，因黜勋等爵。
瑜诛后，宦官悉焚其上书，以为讹言。
子琬，传瑜学，明占候，能著灾异。
translation: 
The purpose is to open up the path of remonstrance and open up the books of the Jin and Teng historians in the Eastern Preface, follow the civil and military methods of Yao, Shun, Yu, Tang, and make the world prosperous and peaceful, depose those bad guys who flatter and do evil, and abandon the voices of Zheng, Wei and Mimi. In this way, the natural government will be peaceful, and the people will be universally enlightened.
I sincerely express my feelings, but there is nothing worthy of the emperor's choice in what I say. I am afraid that I will offend the emperor and be very frightened. After the emperor's death, the general Dou Wu wanted to kill the eunuchs. He appointed Liu Yu as his minister and Yin Xun as his minister, and they planned together.
When Dou Wu failed, Liu Yu and Yin Xun were both killed, which is recorded in "The Biography of Dou Wu".
Yin Xun, courtesy name Boyuan, was from Henan.
His great-uncle Yin Mu once served as Taiwei, and Yin Mu's grandson Yin Song once served as Situ.
Yin Xun is a man of uprightness and perseverance.
When I was studying in my youth, every time I read about loyal ministers and righteous men, I would often discard the book and look up to the sky and sigh.
I think that my conduct is not in line with the times and I am not subject to the etiquette of the state, county and government.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, he was drafted for his moral character and moved to the ministerial order.
In the middle of Yanxi period, the general Liang Ji was killed. The emperor summoned Yin Xun to deploy various positions. He was very talented and was granted the title of Marquis of Yiyang Township.
Pu Shehuo, Shangshu Zhang Jing, Ouyang Shen, Li Wei, Yu Fang, and Zhou Yong were all granted the title of Tinghou.
Yin Xun was later promoted to Jiuqing. He was dismissed from his post due to illness and was awarded the title of Shizhong.
In the eighth year, Zhongchang's servants such as Ju Yuan and Zuo Xuan were dismissed from office because of their convictions, and their fiefdoms were removed. Because of this, Yin Xun was deposed from his title.
After Liu Yu was killed, the eunuchs burned all his letters, thinking they were wrong remarks.
Liu Yu's son Liu Wan passed on Liu Yu's studies and knew about divination and could point out the causes of disasters.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
举方正，不行。
谢弼字辅宣，东郡武阳人也。
中直方正，为乡邑所宗师。
建宁二年，诏举有道之士，弼与东海陈敦、玄菟公孙度俱对策，皆除郎中。
时，青蛇见前殿，大风拔木，诏公卿以下陈得失。
弼上封事曰：臣闻和气应于有德，妖异生乎失政。
上天告谴，则王者思其愆；政道或亏，则奸臣当其罚。夫蛇者，阴气所生；鳞者，甲兵之符也。
《鸿范传》曰： 厥极弱，时则有蛇龙之孽。
又荧惑守亢，裴回不去，法有近臣谋乱，发于左右。不知陛下所与从容帷幄之内，亲信者为谁？
宜急斥黜，以消天戒。
臣又闻 惟虺惟蛇，女子之祥 。
伏惟皇太后定策官闼，授立圣明，《书》云： 父子兄弟，罪不相及。
窦氏之诛，岂宜咎延太后？
幽隔空宫，愁感天心，有如雾露之疾，陛下当何面目以见天下？
昔周襄王不能敬事其母，戎狄遂至交侵。
孝和皇帝不绝窦后之恩，前世以为美谈。
礼为人后者为之子，今以桓帝为父，岂得不以太后为母哉？
《援神契》曰： 天子行孝，四夷和平。
translation: 
It is said that it is square and it should not be done.
◆Xie Bi Chuan, courtesy name Fuxuan, was a native of Wuyang County, Dongjun.
Zhongzheng is upright and upright, and he is admired and respected by his hometown clan.
In the second year of Jianning, an imperial edict was issued to recruit virtuous men. Xie Bi, Chen Dun of Donghai, and Gongsun Du of Xuantu all passed the examination and were awarded the title of doctor.
At this time, a green snake appeared in the front hall, and the strong wind blew down the trees. He ordered the officials below to report their mistakes in political affairs.
Xie Bi sent a secret report and said: I heard that harmony comes from virtue, and evil comes from political failure.
God has issued a warning, and the emperor must think about his faults; if there are shortcomings in politics and religion, traitors should be punished. Snakes are born from Yin energy and are similar to dragons. Dragons have scales and are the symbols of armored soldiers.
"Hong Fan Zhuan" says: When Jue is extremely weak, he will suffer from the sins of snakes and dragons.
It is said that if the emperor is weak, snakes and dragons will appear strangely. Also, the star Yinghuo is guarding Kangxing, lingering around, as if there are conspiracies by the ministers on the left and right to cause trouble. I wonder who is your most trusted person when the emperor is leisurely and working in the palace on weekdays.
They should be repelled as soon as possible to eliminate God's warning.
I also heard that a snake is a symbol of auspiciousness for a woman.
I think the empress dowager decided to go deep into the palace to support the emperor. The "Book" said: Father, son, brother, the sins are not related to each other.
Could it be that the Queen Mother was involved in Dou's execution?
She was imprisoned in the palace, and her sorrow touched the heart of heaven. If she died of illness, how could the emperor show his face to the people of the world?
In the past King Xiang of Zhou could not respect his mother, so Rong and Di invaded her.
Emperor Xiaohe never ceased the kindness of Empress Dou, and was praised by all generations.
The empress is the son of a person, and now he recognizes Emperor Huan as his father. Can he not recognize the Queen Mother as his mother?
"The Deed of Assistance to the Gods" says: The emperor performs filial piety and the barbarians are at peace.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
方今边境日蹙，兵革蜂起，自非孝道，何以济之！
愿陛下仰慕有虞蒸蒸之化，俯思《凯风》慰母之念。
臣又闻爵赏之设，必酬庸勋；开国承家，小人勿用。
今功臣久外，未蒙爵秩，阿母宠私，乃享大封，大风雨雹，亦由于兹。
又故太傅陈蕃，辅相陛下，勤身王室，夙夜匪懈，而见陷群邪，一旦诛灭。
其为酷滥，骇动天下，而门生故吏，并离徙锢。
蕃身已往，人百何赎！
宜还其家属，解除禁网。
夫台宰重器，国命所继。
今之四公，唯司空刘宠断断守善，余皆素餐致寇之人，必有折足覆餗之凶。
可因灾异，并加罢黜。
征故司空王暢，长乐少府李膺，并居政事，庶灾变可消，国祚惟永。
臣山薮顽暗，未达国典。策曰 无有所隐 ，敢不尽愚，用忘讳忌。
伏惟陛下裁其诛罚。
左右恶其言，出为广陵府丞。
translation: 
Now the border is getting smaller day by day, and wars are ongoing. If we don't practice filial piety, what can we do to save it?
Your Majesty, please admire Yu and Shun's teachings of governing the world with filial piety, and meditate on "Kaifeng" to comfort your mother.
I also heard that the country has set up honorary rewards to reward those who have meritorious deeds. Founding a country and carrying on a family, don’t use it for villains.
Now the hero has lived abroad for a long time and has not been promoted to an official position. My mother actually enjoys a big title because of her personal favor. Strong winds and hail are also due to this.
The late Taifu Chen Fan also assisted the emperor and served the country diligently. He worked day and night without slacking off at all.
However, he was actually framed by a group of bad guys and was massacred indiscriminately. The cruelty was so extreme that the whole world was shocked. Chen Fan's students and former subordinates were also either imprisoned or banished.
Chen Fan is dead and cannot be redeemed!
His family members should be moved back to their place of origin and the internet ban should be lifted.
Prime Minister Taifu is an important weapon of the country and the lifeblood of the country.
Now among the four princes, only Sikong Liu Chong is not a liar and keeps himself clean, while the rest are just some of the bandits who live in a state of solitude. They are incompetent and must do bad things.
They can be dismissed or dismissed due to the occurrence of disasters.
Recruiting the former Sikong Wang Chang and Changle Shaofu Li Ying to jointly manage political affairs. In this way, the disasters of the common people can be eliminated and the country can be peaceful.
I am a commoner in the mountains and I don’t know the country’s laws. The emperor told me not to hide anything, that is to say, I don’t have any worries. How dare you not speak freely and forget your taboos?
I beg the emperor to punish me for my sins.
The people around the emperor were disgusted by what he said and sent him to serve as the prime minister of Guangling Prefecture.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
去官归家。
中常侍曹节从子绍为东郡太守，忿疾于弼，遂以它罪收考掠按，死狱中，时人悼伤焉。
初平二年，司隶校尉赵廉讼弼忠节，求报其怨魂，乃收绍斩之。
translation: 
Later, he resigned from office and returned home.
Cao Shao, the nephew of Cao Jie, the official minister of Zhongchang, was the governor of Dongjun and hated Xie Bi. So under the guise of other matters, he was arrested, tortured and interrogated, and died in prison. At that time, people mourned his death.
In the second year of Chuping, Zhao Qian, the captain of the Sili school, appealed to Xie Bizhongjie and asked for revenge for his resentment, so he arrested Cao Shao and killed him.


