Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝景皇帝子凡十三人为王，而母五人，同母者为宗亲。
栗姬子曰荣、德、阏于。
程姬子曰馀、非、端。
贾夫人子曰彭祖、胜。
唐姬子曰发。
王夫人兒姁子曰越、寄、乘、舜。
河间献王德，以孝景帝前二年用皇子为河间王。
好儒学，被服造次必於儒者。
山东诸儒多从之游。
二十六年卒，子共王不害立。
四年卒，子刚王基代立。
十二年卒，子顷王授代立。
临江哀王阏于，以孝景帝前二年用皇子为临江王。
三年卒，无後，国除为郡。
临江闵王荣，以孝景前四年为皇太子，四岁废，用故太子为临江王。
四年，坐侵庙壖垣为宫，上徵荣。
荣行，祖於江陵北门。
既已上车，轴折车废。
江陵父老流涕窃言曰： 吾王不反矣！
荣至，诣中尉府簿。
中尉郅都责讯王，王恐，自杀。
葬蓝田。
燕数万衔土置冢上，百姓怜之。
荣最长，死无後，国除，地入于汉，为南郡。
右三国本王皆栗姬之子也。
鲁共王馀，以孝景前二年用皇子为淮阳王。
二年，吴楚反破後，以孝景前三年徙为鲁王。
好治宫室苑囿狗马。
季年好音，不喜辞辩。为人吃。
二十六年卒，子光代为王。
初好音舆马；晚节啬，惟恐不足於财。
江都易王非，以孝景前二年用皇子为汝南王。
吴楚反时，非年十五，有材力，上书原击吴。
景帝赐非将军印，击吴。吴已破，二岁，徙为江都王，治吴故国，以军功赐天子旌旗。
元光五年，匈奴大入汉为贼，非上书原击匈奴，上不许。
非好气力，治宫观，招四方豪桀，骄奢甚。
立二十六年卒，子建立为王。
translation: 
A total of thirteen sons of Emperor Xiaojing were named kings. These thirteen were born to five mothers, and those born to the same mother were clan relatives.
The sons born to Li Ji are Liu Rong, Liu De and Liu Yanyu.
The sons born to Cheng Ji are Liu Yu, Liu Fei and Liu Duan.
The sons born to Jia Fu are Liu Pengzu and Liu Sheng.
The son born to Tang Ji was Liu Fa.
Mrs. Wang's sons, Liu Yue, Liu Ji, Liu Cheng, and Liu Shun, were born to her.
Liu De, the king of Hejian, was named the king of Hejian as a prince in the second year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
He likes Confucian learning, and he dresses and behaves like a Confucian scholar.
Most of the Confucian scholars in Shandong attached themselves to him.
He died after reigning for twenty-six years and was succeeded by his son, Prince Gong Liu Buhu.
Liu Buhui died after four years on the throne, and his son Liu Ji, King Gang, succeeded him.
Liu Ji died in his 12th year on the throne, and his son Liu Shu, King of Qing, succeeded him.
Linjiang Ai Wang Liu Yan was named Linjiang King as a prince in the second year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
He died after reigning for three years. Because he had no descendants to inherit the throne, the feudal state was abolished and changed to counties.
Linjiang Min King Liu Rong was established as the crown prince in the fourth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign. Four years later, he was deposed and was named Linjiang King as the original prince.
In the fourth year of his reign, he was convicted of occupying the open space outside the ancestral temple wall to expand the palace, and the emperor conscripted him.
Liu Rong responded to the call and set out to worship the god of travel at the north gate of Jiangling.
After getting in the car. The axle is broken and the car is useless.
The Jiangling elders thought this was an ominous sign, and cried and whispered: Our king may not be able to come back!
Liu Rong arrived in the capital and went to the Lieutenant's Mansion for interrogation.
Lieutenant Zhi questioned him and he died out of fear of committing suicide.
Buried in Lam Tin.
Tens of thousands of swallows placed earth in their mouths on his tomb, and the people pitied him.
Liu Rong was the oldest among the sons of Emperor Jing. After his death, he had no sons to inherit the throne. The feudal kingdom was abolished and the fiefdom was merged into the imperial court and became Nanjun.
The first kings of the above-mentioned Three Kingdoms were all sons of Li Ji.
Liu Yu, King of Lu Gong, was named King of Huaiyang as a prince in the second year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
In the second year, after the rebellion of the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu was put down, he was renamed King of Lu in the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
He likes to build palaces and gardens and raise dogs and horses.
In his later years, he loved music, but he was not good at speaking and had a stutter.
He died in the twenty-sixth year of his reign, and his son Liu Guang succeeded him as king.
Liu Guang also liked music, carriages and horses at first, but in his later years he became stingy, fearing that his property would not be enough.
Liu Fei, King of Yi of Jiangdu, was named King of Runan as a prince in the second year BC of Emperor Xiaojing.
When the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled, Liu Fei was fifteen years old. He was brave and resourceful. He wrote to the emperor and volunteered to lead troops to attack Wu.
Emperor Jing gave him the seal of general and ordered him to attack the state of Wu. After the state of Wu was defeated, he was renamed King of Jiangdu the next year and governed the original fiefdom of the state of Wu. Because of his military merits, he was awarded the emperor's banner.
In the fifth year of Yuanguang reign of Emperor Xiaowu, the Huns invaded the Han territory and became bandits. Liu Fei wrote a letter volunteering to attack the Huns, but the emperor did not agree.
Liu Fei liked to use his strength, build palaces, recruit heroes and knights from all over the world, and was extremely arrogant and extravagant.
He died in his twenty-sixth year on the throne, and his son Liu Jian succeeded him as king.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
七年自杀。
淮南、衡山谋反时，建颇闻其谋。
自以为国近淮南，恐一日发，为所并，即阴作兵器，而时佩其父所赐将军印，载天子旗以出。
易王死未葬，建有所说易王宠美人淖姬，夜使人迎与奸服舍中。
及淮南事发，治党与颇及江都王建。
建恐，因使人多持金钱，事绝其狱。
而又信巫祝，使人祷祠妄言。
建又尽与其姊弟奸。
事既闻，汉公卿请捕治建。
天子不忍，使大臣即讯王。
王服所犯，遂自杀。
国除，地入于汉，为广陵郡。
胶西于王端，以孝景前三年吴楚七国反破後，端用皇子为胶西王。
端为人贼戾，又阴痿，一近妇人，病之数月。
而有爱幸少年为郎。
为郎者顷之与後宫乱，端禽灭之，及杀其子母。
数犯上法，汉公卿数请诛端，天子为兄弟之故不忍，而端所为滋甚。
有司再请削其国，去太半。
端心愠，遂为无訾省。
府库坏漏尽，腐财物以巨万计，终不得收徙。
令吏毋得收租赋。
端皆去卫，封其宫门，从一门出游。
数变名姓，为布衣，之他郡国。
相、二千石往者，奉汉法以治，端辄求其罪告之，无罪者诈药杀之。
所以设诈究变，彊足以距谏，智足以饰非。
相、二千石从王治，则汉绳以法。
故胶西小国，而所杀伤二千石甚众。
立四十七年，卒，竟无男代後，国除，地入于汉，为胶西郡。
translation: 
Liu Jian committed suicide after seven years in office.
When Huainan and Hengshan rebelled, Liu Jian had some idea of ​​their plans.
He believed that his kingdom was close to Huainan, and he was afraid that it would be annexed by the king of Huainan if the incident happened, so he secretly made weapons, and often wore the general's seal given to his father by the emperor, and carried the emperor's banner on patrols.
King Yi died and was not yet buried. Liu Jian fell in love with King Yi's beloved beauty Nao Ji. He sent someone to fetch her at night and had an affair with her in the mourning house.
When the Huainan King's rebellion was exposed, the imperial court punished his associates and suspects, which implicated Jiangdu King Liu Jian.
Liu Jian panicked, so he sent people to hold more money and tried to quell the lawsuit through activities.
He also believed in witchcraft, sent people to offer sacrifices and pray, and made up lies.
Liu Jian also had an affair with his sister.
After the court learned of these things, the ministers of the Han Dynasty requested that Liu Jian be arrested and punished.
The emperor couldn't bear it and sent his ministers to interrogate him.
He confessed to all his crimes and committed suicide out of fear of guilt.
So the feudal state was abolished and the feudal land was merged into the imperial court and became Guangling County.
Liu Duan, the king of Jiaoxi, was named the king of Jiaoxi as a prince after the Wu and Chu kingdoms rebelled and were defeated in the third year BC by Emperor Xiaojing.
Liu Duan was cruel and cruel, and suffered from impotence. Whenever he came into contact with a woman, he would be ill for several months.
He had a beloved young man whom he appointed as Lang Guan.
The young official soon had an affair with the harem, and Liu Duan executed him, as well as his son and mother.
Liu Duan repeatedly violated the emperor's laws, and the ministers of the Han Dynasty repeatedly requested that he be killed. The emperor could not bear to do so because he was his ultimate brother, so Liu Duan's behavior became even more excessive.
Relevant officials twice requested to deprive him of his territory, so most of his fiefdom was deprived.
Liu Duan had a grudge in his heart, so he no longer managed the money in the country.
All the treasuries collapsed and leaked, and the corrupted property was counted in the billions, but in the end there was no cleaning up.
He also ordered officials not to collect rent or taxes.
Liu Duan also removed all the guards and sealed the palace gates, leaving only one door, from which he wandered out of the palace.
He changed his name many times, pretended to be a commoner, and went to other counties.
If any officials who went to Jiaoxi to serve as prime ministers or two thousand stone officials followed the laws of the Han Dynasty in governing political affairs, Liu Duan would always find out their crimes and report them to the court; if they could not find their crimes, he would devise a scheme to poison them.
His methods of devising tricks are extremely varied, he is strong enough to refuse the advice of others, and clever enough to cover up his own mistakes.
If the prime ministers and officials of the two thousand-stone level followed the king's laws in governing political affairs, they would be framed and punished by the court.
Therefore, although Jiaoxi is a small country, there are many officials with the rank of 2,000 stone killed and injured.
Liu Duan died after reigning for forty-seven years. In the end, because he had no son to inherit the throne, the feudal state was abolished and the feudal land was merged into the imperial court and became Jiaoxi County.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
右三国本王皆程姬之子也。
赵王彭祖，以孝景前二年用皇子为广川王。
赵王遂反破後，彭祖王广川。
四年，徙为赵王。
十五年，孝景帝崩。
彭祖为人巧佞卑谄，足恭而心刻深。
好法律，持诡辩以中人。
彭祖多内宠姬及子孙。
相、二千石欲奉汉法以治，则害於王家。
是以每相、二千石至，彭祖衣皁布衣，自行迎，除二千石舍，多设疑事以作动之，得二千石失言，中忌讳，辄书之。
二千石欲治者，则以此迫劫；不听，乃上书告，及汙以奸利事。
彭祖立五十馀年，相、二千石无能满二岁，辄以罪去，大者死，小者刑，以故二千石莫敢治。
而赵王擅权，使使即县为贾人榷会，入多於国经租税。
以是赵王家多金钱，然所赐姬诸子，亦尽之矣。
彭祖取故江都易王宠姬王建所盗与奸淖姬者为姬，甚爱之。
彭祖不好治宫室、禨祥，好为吏事。
上书原督国中盗贼。
常夜从走卒行徼邯郸中。
诸使过客以彭祖险陂，莫敢留邯郸。
其太子丹与其女及同产姊奸，与其客江充有卻。充告丹，丹以故废。
赵更立太子。
中山靖王胜，以孝景前三年用皇子为中山王。
十四年，孝景帝崩。
胜为人乐酒好内，有子枝属百二十馀人。
常与兄赵王相非，曰： 兄为王，专代吏治事。
王者当日听音乐声色。
translation: 
The first kings of the above-mentioned three kingdoms were all sons of Cheng Ji.
King Liu Pengzu of Zhao was named King of Guangchuan as a prince in the second year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
After King Zhao rebelled and was defeated, Peng Zu was named King of Guangchuan.
In the fourth year of his reign, he was renamed King Zhao.
In the fifteenth year of his reign, Emperor Xiaojing passed away.
Peng Zu was a deceitful and sycophantic man, humble and flattering. On the surface, he was humble and respectful, but he was mean and vicious in his heart.
He likes to play with the law and slander others with sophistry.
Peng Zu had many beloved concubines and descendants.
If the prime minister and officials of the 2,000-stone level want to govern political affairs according to the laws of the Han Dynasty, they will harm the interests of King Zhao.
For this reason, whenever the Prime Minister or a 2,000-stone-level official arrived, Liu Pengzu would dress in black cloth and pretend to be a slave, go out to greet him personally, clean the residence where the 2,000-stone-level official stayed, and create more confusion to attract the other party. Once the 2,000-stone-level official made inappropriate remarks and violated the court's taboos, he would write it down.
If an official with a rank of 2,000 stone wanted to follow the law, he would threaten him; if the other party did not comply, he would file a report and frame the other party for committing adultery and breaking the law for personal gain.
During the more than 50 years of Liu Pengzu's reign, none of the prime ministers or officials of the 2,000-stone level could serve for two years. They were often dismissed from office for crimes. Those who committed major crimes were executed and those who committed minor crimes were punished. Therefore, no official of the 2,000-stone level dared to govern according to the law.
Therefore, the King of Zhao was very powerful and sent envoys to the counties to conduct patent sales. The income even exceeded the normal tax income of the State of Zhao.
Therefore, King Zhao's family had a lot of money, but all the money was given to concubines and concubines and was used up.
Liu Pengzu married the beloved concubine of the late Jiangdu King Liu Fei, who was later captured by Liu Jian and had an affair with, and he doted on her very much.
Liu Pengzu did not like to build palaces, nor was he superstitious about ghosts and gods, but he liked to do what officials did.
Write a letter to the emperor, volunteering to supervise the thieves in the kingdom.
He often led his troops to patrol Handan City at night.
The envoys and travelers did not dare to stay in Handan because Liu Pengzu was treacherous and evil.
Liu Dan, the crown prince of King Pengzu of Zhao, committed adultery with his daughter and his compatriot sister. Liu Dan had a grudge against his retainers, Jiang Chong reported on Liu Dan, and Liu Dan was deposed.
The state of Zhao changed its name to a crown prince.
Liu Sheng, King Jing of Zhongshan, was named King of Zhongshan as a prince in the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
In the fourteenth year of his reign, Emperor Xiaojing passed away.
Liu Sheng was fond of drinking and seducing women. He had more than 120 descendants.
He and his brother King Zhao often criticized each other, saying: As a king of vassals, my brother specializes in managing political affairs on behalf of lower-level officials.
A person who is a king should listen to music and enjoy dancing and singing every day.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
赵王亦非之，曰： 中山王徒日淫，不佐天子拊循百姓，何以称为籓臣！
立四十二年卒，子哀王昌立。
一年卒，子昆侈代为中山王。
右二国本王皆贾夫人之子也。
长沙定王发，发之母唐姬，故程姬侍者。
景帝召程姬，程姬有所辟，不原进，而饰侍者唐兒使夜进。
上醉不知，以为程姬而幸之，遂有身。
已乃觉非程姬也。
及生子，因命曰发。
以孝景前二年用皇子为长沙王。
以其母微，无宠，故王卑湿贫国。
立二十七年卒，子康王庸立。
二十八年，卒，子鲋鮈立为长沙王。
右一国本王唐姬之子也。
广川惠王越，以孝景中二年用皇子为广川王。
十二年卒，子齐立为王。
齐有幸臣桑距。
已而有罪，欲诛距，距亡，王因禽其宗族。
距怨王，乃上书告王齐与同产奸。
自是之後，王齐数上书告言汉公卿及幸臣所忠等。
胶东康王寄，以孝景中二年用皇子为胶东王。
二十八年卒。
淮南王谋反时，寄微闻其事，私作楼车镞矢战守备，候淮南之起。
及吏治淮南之事，辞出之。
寄於上最亲，意伤之，发病而死，不敢置後，於是上。
寄有长子者名贤，母无宠；少子名庆，母爱幸，寄常欲立之，为不次，因有过，遂无言。
上怜之，乃以贤为胶东王奉康王嗣，而封庆於故衡山地，为六安王。
胶东王贤立十四年卒，谥为哀王。
子庆为王。
六安王庆，以元狩二年用胶东康王子为六安王。
清河哀王乘，以孝景中三年用皇子为清河王。
十二年卒，无後，国除，地入于汉，为清河郡。
常山宪王舜，以孝景中五年用皇子为常山王。
舜最亲，景帝少子，骄怠多淫，数犯禁，上常宽释之。
立三十二年卒，太子勃代立为王。
translation: 
King Zhao also accused him and said: King Zhongshan only enjoys pleasure every day and does not help the emperor to comfort the people. How can he be called a vassal?
Liu Sheng died in the 42nd year of his reign and was succeeded by his son Liu Chang, King Ai.
Liu Chang died after one year on the throne, and his son Liu Kunchi succeeded him as King of Zhongshan.
The first kings of the two countries mentioned above were all sons of Mrs. Jia.
Liu Fa, the king of Changsha, and his mother Tang Ji, turned out to be Cheng Ji's maid.
Emperor Jing summoned Cheng Ji. It happened that Cheng Ji was menstruating and did not want to serve, so he dressed up his maid Tang'er and asked her to serve the emperor at night.
The emperor was drunk and didn't know what was going on. He thought it was Cheng Ji, so he slept with her, and she became pregnant.
Only later did the emperor realize that it was not Cheng Ji.
When he gave birth to a son, he named him Liu Fa.
Liu Fa was named the King of Changsha as a prince in the second year BC of Emperor Xiaojing.
Because his mother's status was low, she was not favored by the emperor, so she was made king of a small and low-income country.
Liu Fa died on the twenty-seventh day of his reign, and his son Liu Yong, King of Kang, succeeded him.
Liu Yong died in his 28th year on the throne, and his son Liu Yuan succeeded to the throne as King of Changsha.
The first king of the above-mentioned country was the son of Tang Ji.
Liu Yue, King Hui of Guangchuan, was named King of Guangchuan as a prince in the second year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
Liu Yue died in the 12th year of his reign, and his son Liu Qi succeeded him as king.
Liu Qi had a favored minister Sang Ju.
Later, Sang Ju committed a crime, and Liu Qi wanted to kill Sang Ju, but Sang Ju escaped, and Liu Qi captured and exterminated his clan.
Sang Ju resented Liu Qi because of this, so he wrote a letter to accuse Liu Qi of committing adultery with his compatriot sisters.
From then on, in order to protect himself, Liu Qi repeatedly wrote letters to accuse the Han Dynasty officials and favored ministers such as Suo Zhong and others for their crimes.
Liu Ji, King Kang of Jiaodong, was named King of Jiaodong as a prince in the second year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
He died after reigning for twenty-eight years.
When the King of Huainan was planning a rebellion, Liu Ji secretly heard about it, so he secretly made bows and arrows, prepared for war and defense, and waited for the King of Huainan to rebel.
Later, when the officials interrogated the King of Huainan for his rebellion, this incident was exposed in his confession.
Liu Ji had the closest relationship with the emperor. He felt guilty and grieved for participating in the rebellion. He died of an illness and did not dare to pass it on to his successor. Later, the emperor learned about this situation.
Liu Ji's eldest son was named Xian, but his mother was not favored; his younger son was named Qing, and his mother was favored. Liu Ji once wanted to appoint Liu Qing as his successor, but because it was not in line with the inheritance order and because of his own sins, he finally dared not say anything.
The emperor took pity on him and made Liu Xian King of Jiaodong and the successor of King Kang. Liu Qing was granted the title of King of Liu'an in the former fiefdom of King Hengshan.
King Liu Xian of Jiaodong died in the fourteenth year of his reign and was given the posthumous title of King Ai.
His son Liu Qing succeeded to the throne as king.
In the second year of Yuanshou, Liu Qing, the king of Liu'an, was named the king of Liu'an as the son of King Kang of Jiaodong.
Liu Cheng, the Ai King of Qinghe, was granted the title of King Qinghe as a prince in the third year of Zhongyuan Period by Emperor Xiaojing.
He died after reigning for 12 years. Because he had no sons, the feudal state was abolished and the land belonged to the imperial court and became Qinghe County.
Liu Shun, the Xianwang of Changshan, was named the King of Changshan as a prince in the fifth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign.
Liu Shun was the favorite youngest son of Emperor Jing. He was arrogant and lazy, engaged in many promiscuous affairs, and repeatedly violated laws and regulations. The emperor often pardoned him.
Liu Shun died in the thirty-second year of his reign, and his prince Liu Bo succeeded him as king.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
初，宪王舜有所不爱姬生长男棁。
棁以母无宠故，亦不得幸於王。
王后脩生太子勃。
王内多，所幸姬生子平、子商，王后希得幸。
及宪王病甚，诸幸姬常侍病，故王后亦以妒媢不常侍病，辄归舍。
医进药，太子勃不自尝药，又不宿留侍病。
及王薨，王后、太子乃至。
宪王雅不以长子棁为人数，及薨，又不分与财物。
郎或说太子、王后，令诸子与长子棁共分财物，太子、王后不听。
太子代立，又不收恤棁。
棁怨王后、太子。
汉使者视宪王丧，棁自言宪王病时，王后、太子不侍，及薨，六日出舍，太子勃私奸，饮酒，博戏，击筑，与女子载驰，环城过市，入牢视囚。
天子遣大行骞验王后及问王勃，请逮勃所与奸诸证左，王又匿之。
吏求捕勃大急，使人致击笞掠，擅出汉所疑囚者。
有司请诛宪王后脩及王勃。
上以脩素无行，使棁陷之罪，勃无良师傅，不忍诛。
有司请废王后脩，徙王勃以家属处房陵，上许之。
勃王数月，迁于房陵，国绝。
月馀，天子为最亲，乃诏有司曰： 常山宪王蚤夭，后妾不和，適孽诬争，陷于不义以灭国，朕甚闵焉。
其封宪王子平三万户，为真定王；封子商三万户，为泗水王。
真定王平，元鼎四年用常山宪王子为真定王。
泗水思王商，以元鼎四年用常山宪王子为泗水王。
十一年卒，子哀王安世立。
十一年卒，无子。
於是上怜泗水王绝，乃立安世弟贺为泗水王。
translation: 
It turned out that King Xian Liu Shun had a concubine who was not favored by him and gave birth to his eldest son Liu Xi.
Liu Chai was not favored by King Xian because his biological mother was not favored.
The queen concubines the prince Liu Bo.
There were many concubines in King Xian's palace, and his favored concubines gave birth to his sons Liu Ping and Liu Shang. The queen was rarely lucky.
When King Xian was seriously ill, the favored concubines often went to attend to him. The queen, out of jealousy, did not often go to see the sick and always stayed in her own room.
The doctor presented the medicine, but Prince Liu Bo did not taste the medicine himself, nor did he stay with the royal family to attend to the illness.
It was not until King Xian passed away that the queen and the prince arrived.
King Xian never regarded Liu Xi as his son. After King Xian died, he did not give him any property.
Some of the officials advised the prince and queen to share the property with the eldest son Liu Chai, but the prince and queen refused.
After the prince succeeded to the throne, he refused to accept and care for Liu Kai.
Liu Chao resented the queen and the prince.
When the envoys of the Han Dynasty came to see the funeral of King Xian, Liu Kai personally reported that when King Xian was ill, the queen and the prince did not wait at his bedside. When King Xian passed away, they only stayed for six days before leaving the mourning room, and that the prince Liu Bo secretly committed adultery, drank for fun, gambled and built for fun, rode with women in cars, traveled across the city, and entered prisons to visit prisoners.
The emperor sent an order to Zhang Qian to verify what the queen had done and to interrogate Liu Bo. He asked for the arrest of those who had committed adultery with Liu Bo as evidence, and Liu Bo managed to hide them.
Officials conducted a large-scale search and arrest, and Liu Bo was very anxious. He sent people to torture the investigators and released without authorization people who were imprisoned by the court as suspicious.
Officials requested that King Xian, Queen Xiu and Liu Bo be killed.
The emperor believed that Xiu had always had bad conduct, which led Liu Kai to report her as guilty, and Liu Bo committed the crime because he did not have the help of a good master and could not bear to kill her.
The officials also requested that Queen Xiu be deposed, Liu Bo be exiled, and his family members be moved to Fangling with him. The emperor agreed to this request.
Liu Bo was king for only a few months. He was demoted to Fangling and his country was exterminated.
More than a month later, the emperor noticed that King Xian was his favorite youngest son, so he issued an edict to the officials: King Xian of Changshan died early, the queen and her concubines were at odds with each other, and the concubines fabricated charges against each other and fought with each other. As a result, they fell into injustice and the country was destroyed. I pity him very much.
Liu Ping, the son of King Xian, has 30,000 households and is the true king; Liu Shang, the son of King Xian, has 30,000 households and is the king of Sishui.
In the fourth year of Yuanding, Liu Ping, the king of Zhending, was named the king of Zhending as the son of Prince Xian of Changshan.
Liu Shang, the Si Wang of Surabaya, was named the King of Surabaya as the son of Prince Changshan Xian in the fourth year of Yuanding.
He died after reigning for eleven years and was succeeded by his son Liu Anshi, King Ai.
King Ai died after eleven years of reigning without any sons.
The emperor took pity on the Queen of Surabaya and appointed Liu Anshi's younger brother Liu He as the King of Surabaya.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
右四国本王皆王夫人兒姁子也。
其後汉益封其支子为六安王、泗水王二国。
凡兒姁子孙，於今为六王。
太史公曰：高祖时诸侯皆赋，得自除内史以下，汉独为置丞相，黄金印。
诸侯自除御史、廷尉正、博士，拟於天子。
自吴楚反後，五宗王世，汉为置二千石，去 丞相 曰 相 ，银印。诸侯独得食租税，夺之权。
其後诸侯贫者或乘牛车也。
translation: 
The first kings of the four kingdoms mentioned above were all the sons of Mrs. Wang Erjiao.
Later, the Han Dynasty added the title of King of Liu'an and King of Sishui to his descendants.
In total, there are six kings of Erjiao's descendants.
Tai Shigong said: When Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was on the throne, all the taxes of the princes belonged to the princes and kings, and they could appoint officials below the level of internal history. The court only sent prime ministers to them and awarded them gold seals.
The vassal kings appointed censors, court officials, and doctors on their own, similar to the emperor.
Since the rebellion of Wu, Chu and other countries, during the era when the Five Sects were kings, the imperial court sent 2,000 stone-level officials to them, removed the "prime minister" and replaced them with "prime minister". The princes and kings could only enjoy the taxes within the fiefdom, and their power was deprived of their power by the court.
After that, the poor among the princes and kings could only ride on bullock carts.


