Chunk 0: 
original: 
王规，字威明，琅邪临沂人。
祖俭，齐太尉南昌文宪公。
父骞，金紫光禄大夫南昌安侯。
规八岁，以丁所生母忧，居丧有至性。太尉徐孝嗣每见必为之流涕，称曰孝童。
叔父暕亦深器重之，常曰： 此儿吾家千里驹也。
年十二，《五经》大义，并略能通。
既长，好学有口辩。
州举秀才，郡迎主簿。
起家秘书郎，累迁太子舍人、安右南康王主簿、太子洗马。
天监十二年，改构太极殿，功毕，规献《新殿赋》，其辞甚工。
拜秘书丞。
历太子中舍人、司徒左西属、从事中郎。
晋安王纲出为南徐州，高选僚属，引为云麾谘议参军。
久之，出为新安太守，父忧去职。
服阕，袭封南昌县侯，除中书黄门侍郎。
敕与陈郡殷钧、琅邪王锡、范阳张缅同侍东宫，俱为昭明太子所礼。
湘东王时为京尹，与朝士宴集，属规为酒令。
translation: 
Wang Gui, courtesy name Weiming, was from Linyi, Langxie.
His grandfather Wang Jian was a Taiwei during the Qi Dynasty and was named Nanchang County Duke, while Mi was named Wenxian Gong.
His father, Wang Qian, served as a doctor in Jinziguanglu and was named the Marquis of Nanchang.
When Wang Gui was eight years old, his biological mother died. During the mourning period, Wang Gui was extremely sincere and filial. Every time Taiwei Xu Xiaosi saw him, he was moved to tears by his filial piety and called him a filial boy.
Wang Gui's uncle Wang Chen also thought highly of him. He once said: "My son is my family's horse."
When Wang Gui was twelve years old, he had a general understanding of the meaning of the Five Classics.
When I grow up, I love learning more and become more eloquent.
Wang Gui was promoted as a scholar by the state, and the county chose him as the chief registrar.
Wang Gui was recruited from his family to serve as Secretary Lang, and was promoted to Prince Sheren, An Younan Kang Wang's chief secretary, and Prince Xima.
In the twelfth year of Tianjian, the imperial court rebuilt the Taiji Hall. After it was completed, Wang Gui presented the "New Hall Fu" with exquisite diction.
He was appointed Secretary Cheng.
He successively served as the Prince's Zhongsheren, Situ Zuoxi, and worked as a Zhonglang.
Xiao Gang, king of Jin'an, came to the capital to serve as the governor of Southern Xuzhou. He strictly selected his subordinate palaces, and Wang Gui was selected as Yunhui to consult and join the army.
After a long time, Wang Gui came to the capital again to serve as the prefect of Xin'an, but he resigned because his father died.
After the mourning period expired, he was granted the title of Marquis of Nanchang County and was appointed as the Minister of Huangmen of Zhongshu.
The emperor ordered Wang Gui, Chen Jun Yin Gou, Langxie Wang Xi, Fan Yang and Zhang Mian to serve the prince together. Prince Zhaoming treated them all with courtesy.
At that time, the King of Xiangdong was appointed as the capital of Beijing, and he and the court officials gathered for a banquet. During the banquet, the King of Xiangdong asked Wang Gui to make drinking orders.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
规从容对曰： 自江左以来，未有兹举。
特进萧琛、金紫傅昭在坐，并谓为知言。
普通初，陈庆之北伐，克复洛阳，百僚称贺，规退曰： 道家有云：非为功难，成功难也。
羯寇游魂，为日已久，桓温得而复失，宋武竟无成功。我孤军无援，深入寇境，威势不接，馈运难继，将是役也，为祸阶矣。
俄而王师覆没，其识达事机多如此类。
六年，高祖于文德殿饯广州刺史元景隆，诏群臣赋诗，同用五十韵，规援笔立奏，其文又美。
高祖嘉焉，即日诏为侍中。
大通三年，迁五兵尚书，俄领步兵校尉。
中大通二年，出为贞威将军骠骑晋安王长史。
其年，王立为皇太子，仍为吴郡太守。
主书芮珍宗家在吴，前守宰皆倾意附之。是时珍宗假还，规遇之甚薄，珍宗还都，密奏规云 不理郡事 。
俄征为左民尚书，郡吏民千余人诣阙请留，表三奏，上不许。
寻以本官领右军将军，未拜，复为散骑常侍、太子中庶子，领步兵校尉。
规辞疾不拜，于钟山宗熙寺筑室居焉。
translation: 
Wang Gui replied calmly: This has not happened since the Jin Dynasty moved to Jiangzuo.
At that time, Te Jin Xiao Chen and Jin Zi Fu Zhao were present, and they all thought that Luo's words were very insightful.
In the early years of ordinary times, Chen Qingzhi conquered Luoyang during his Northern Expedition. All the officials in the court congratulated him. After Wang Gui retired from the court, he said: Taoism says that it is not difficult to get things started, but it is difficult to achieve achievements.
Jie Kou is like a wandering spirit. It has lasted for a long time. Wenwen conquered, gained and lost, and Emperor Wu of the Song Dynasty failed in the end. We went deep into the enemy's territory alone, without backup, and went deep into the area occupied by Jie Kou. Our troops could not be connected and our supplies could not be sustained. This battle would bring disaster.
Soon the imperial army was completely wiped out. His thorough understanding of things is much like this.
In the sixth year, Emperor Gaozu hosted a banquet in the Wende Palace to pay farewell to Yuan Jinglong, the governor of Guangzhou. He issued an edict to the ministers to compose poems, stipulating that they should all write one hundred lines of poems. Wang Gui picked up his pen and wrote the memorial immediately, and the poems were very beautiful.
Emperor Gaozu admired Wang Gui's talents very much and appointed him as a minister in Shao that day.
In the third year of Datong, Wang Gui was moved to the post of Minister of the Fifth Army, and soon he was also appointed as the infantry captain.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, Wang Gui came to the capital to serve as general Zhenwei's hussar and chief historian of Jin'an.
That year, King Jin'an was established as the crown prince, and Wang Gui then became the prefect of Wu County.
The home of the chief secretary, Rui Zhenzong, was in Wu, and all the previous governors were devoted to fawning over him. When Wang Gui took office, Zhenzong went home on vacation. Wang Gui treated him very distantly, and then returned to Kyoto. He secretly reported to the king that he ignored the political affairs of the county.
So Wang Dan soon changed his post to Zuo Min Shangshu. More than a thousand officials and people from Wu County in the capital requested Wang Gui to stay in his post. They petitioned three times, but the emperor refused.
Soon Wang Gui concurrently served as the general of the right army in the name of Zuo Min Shangshu. Without any appointment, he was appointed as the regular servant of the Sanqi, the prince's concubine, and concurrently as the infantry captain.
Wang Gui resigned due to illness and refused to take up the post, so he built a house in Songxi Temple to live.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
大同二年，卒，时年四十五。
诏赠散骑常侍、光禄大夫，赙钱二十万，布百匹。谥曰章。
皇太子出临哭，与湘东王绎令曰： 威明昨宵奄复殂化，甚可痛伤。
其风韵遒正，神峰标映，千里绝迹，百尺无枝。
文辩纵横，才学优赡，跌宕之情弥远，濠梁之气特多，斯实俊民也。
一尔过隙，永归长夜，金刀掩芒，长淮绝涸。
去岁冬中，已伤刘子；今兹寒孟，复悼王生。俱往之伤，信非虚说。
规集《后汉》众家异同，注《续汉书》二百卷，文集二十卷。
子褒，字子汉，七岁能属文。
外祖司空袁昂爱之，谓宾客曰： 此儿当成吾宅相。
弱冠举秀才，除秘书郎、太子舍人，以父忧去职。
服阕，袭封南昌侯，除武昌王文学、太子洗马，兼东宫管记，迁司徒属，秘书丞，出为安成内史。
太清中，侯景陷京城，江州刺史当阳公大心举州附贼，贼转寇南中，褒犹据郡拒守。
大宝二年，世祖命征褒赴江陵，既至，以为忠武将军、南平内史，俄迁吏部尚书、侍中。
承圣二年，迁尚书右仆射，仍参掌选事，又加侍中。
其年，迁左仆射，参掌如故。
三年，江陵陷，入于周。
褒著《幼训》，以诫诸子。
translation: 
In the second year of his reign, Wang Nie passed away at the age of forty-five.
The emperor posthumously awarded him the rank of Sanqi Changshi and Guanglu Doctor. He also gave him 200,000 yuan and 100 pieces of cloth to organize his funeral, and gave him a Mi title.
The crown prince went to Wang Guiling to cry and mourned, and ordered: "The king died suddenly last night, which is really sad."
His charm is beautiful and upright, his appearance is dazzling and outstanding, no one can compare with him within a thousand miles, and no one can match his erect and outstanding appearance.
His writing is eloquent and unrestrained, his talents are rich and learned, he is unrestrained and unrestrained, his talent is lofty, he loves the mountains and rivers, and he enjoys himself. He is really an outstanding person!
His short life passed quickly, and now he has returned to the dark nine springs, like a golden knife that has lost its light, and the Huai River has stopped flowing and dried up.
In the middle of last winter, I was saddened by the death of Liu Zun. In the early winter of this year, I came to commemorate Wang Nie and grieve for the deaths of my friends. It is indeed not empty talk!
Yu Nie collected different versions of "Book of the Later Han" from various schools, annotated 200 volumes of the "Sustained Book of Han" and 20 volumes of collected works.
Wang Gui's son Wang Bao, also named Ziyuan. Wang Bao was able to write articles when he was seven years old.
Grandfather Sikong Yuan Ang loved him and said to the guests: This child will become a distinguished nephew of our family.
At the age of twenty, Wang Bao was promoted as a scholar and served as Secretary Lang. The prince left his post because his father died.
After the mourning period expired, he was granted the title of Marquis of Nanchang, and was appointed as King Wenxue of Wuchang, Prince Xima, and concurrently as the Guanji of Shu Palace. He was promoted to Situ Shi, Secretary Cheng, and left the capital to serve as the internal history of Ancheng.
During the Taiqing period, Hou Jing captured the capital. Xiao Daxin, the governor of Jiangzhou Dangyang, led the entire Jiangzhou to rely on the rebels. The rebels turned to invade Nanzhong, but Wang Bao still stood firm in Ancheng to fight against the rebels.
In the second year of Dashi, Emperor Shizu ordered Wang Bao to be recruited and rushed to Jiangling. After Wang Bao arrived in Jiangling, Emperor Shizu appointed him as General Zhongwu and Internal History of Nanping. He was soon promoted to Minister of the Ministry of Personnel and Shizhong.
In the second year of Chengsheng's reign, Wang Bao was promoted to the position of right servant of Shangshu. He then participated in the selection of officials and became a minister.
That year, he was promoted to Zuopushe and participated in the selection of officials as before.
In the third year of Chengsheng's reign, Jiangling was captured and he surrendered to the Zhou Dynasty.
Wang Bao wrote "Young Training" to warn his sons.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
其一章云：
陶士衡曰： 昔大禹不吝尺璧而重寸阴。
文士何不诵书，武士何不马射？
若乃玄冬修夜，硃明永日，肃其居处，崇其墙仞，门无糅杂，坐阙号呶。
以之求学，则仲尼之门人也；以之为文，则贾生之升堂也。
古者盘盂有铭，几杖有诫，进退循焉，俯仰观焉。
文王之诗曰： 靡不有初，鲜克有终。
立身行道，终始若一。 造次必于是 ，君子之言欤？
儒家则尊卑等差，吉凶降杀。
君南面而臣北面，天地之义也；鼎俎奇而笾豆偶，阴阳之义也。
道家则堕支体，黜聪明，弃义绝仁，离形去智。
释氏之义，见苦断习，证灭循道，明因辨果，偶凡成圣，斯虽为教等差，而义归汲引。
translation: 
One chapter says:
Tao Shiheng said: In the past, Dayu did not value the jade with a full-foot diameter, but he cherished every inch of time.
Why don't literati recite poems and books, and why don't warriors ride horses and shoot arrows?
If in those long nights of cold winter and long days of midsummer, you can keep your room quiet, build the courtyard walls high, and there are no other people coming and going in your home, you can just sit in your house and recite aloud.
If you study with this spirit, you will become a disciple of Zhongni; if you write with this attitude, you will become a disciple of Jia Yi.
In ancient times, there were inscriptions on the bowls. There are warning words written on the desk and the walking stick. Look at it and follow it whether you are advancing or retreating.
"The King of Poetry" says: No one has a good beginning, but few can persist to the end.
A person must be consistent in his conduct. Don't violate benevolence in haste. This is indeed what a gentleman says!
Confucianism originally emphasizes the hierarchy of superiority and inferiority, and the difference between good and bad etiquette.
It is a natural rule that the king should face south and his ministers should face north. When offering sacrifices, use odd numbers for Ding Zu and even numbers for Peng Dou. This is the principle of the coordination of Yin and Yang.
Taoism, on the other hand, does not pay attention to the body, abandons cleverness, benevolence and righteousness, abandons the body, and abandons wisdom.
The teachings of Buddhism, practicing asceticism, cutting off worldly thoughts, understanding the principles of life and death, following the teachings of the Buddha, discerning cause and effect, can become a saint while living in the secular world. Even though there are such differences in the purposes of each religion, the ultimate goal is to enlighten all sentient beings.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
吾始乎幼学，及于知命，既崇周、孔之教，兼循老、释之谈，江左以来，斯业不坠，汝能修之，吾之志也。
初，有沛国刘、南阳宗懔与褒俱为中兴佐命，同参帷幄。
刘，字仲宝，晋丹阳尹真长七世孙也。
少方正有器局。
自国子礼生射策高第，为宁海令，稍迁湘东王记室参军，又转中记室。
太清中，侯景乱，世祖承制上流，书檄多委焉，亦竭力尽忠，甚蒙赏遇。
历尚书左丞、御史中丞。
承圣二年，迁吏部尚书、国子祭酒，余如故。
宗懔，字元懔。
八世祖承，晋宜都郡守，属永嘉东徙，子孙因居江陵焉。
懔少聪敏好学，昼夜不倦，乡里号为 童子学士 。
translation: 
From the time I first entered school to the age of knowing my destiny, I not only advocated Confucianism, but also believed in Taoism and Buddhism. Since the Jin Dynasty moved to Jiangzuo, the three schools of Confucianism, Taoism, and Buddhism have not been annihilated. If you can continue to practice, this is my wish.
At the beginning, Liu Yu of Pei State, Nanyang Zongmao and Wang Bao were all assistant ministers of Zhongxing in the imperial court and participated in the planning and decision-making together.
Liu Yu, whose courtesy name is Zhongshi, is the seventh generation descendant of Yin Liu Zhenchang in Danyang, Jin Dynasty.
When he was young, he was well-behaved, talented and thoughtful.
He participated in the archery response as an imperial ceremonial student and achieved outstanding results. He was appointed as Ning Hailing. He was gradually promoted to the Prince of Xiangdong to join the army, and was transferred to the Zhongji Office.
During the Zuochang period, Crocodile rebelled, and Shidan followed the emperor's will and took matters into his own hands on the upper reaches of the river. Most of the documents were drafted by Liu Yu, who also tried his best to be loyal, and was highly appreciated and favored by Shizu.
He successively served as Minister Zuocheng and Yushi Zhongcheng.
In the second year of Cheng Sheng's reign, Liu Yu moved to serve as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel and Guozi Jijiu. The other official positions remained the same as before.
The character Zong is Yuan.
His eighth-generation ancestor Zongcheng served as the governor of Yidu during the Jin Dynasty. During the Yongjia Rebellion, the imperial court moved eastward, so his descendants lived in Jiangling.
When he was young, Zong Mao was smart and eager to learn, and he studied tirelessly day and night. People in his hometown called him "Boy Bachelor".


Chunk 5: 
original: 
普通中，为湘东王府兼记室，转刑狱，仍掌书记。
历临汝、建成、广晋等令，后又为世祖荆州别驾。
及世祖即位，以为尚书郎，封信安县侯，邑一千户。
累迁吏部郎中、五兵尚书、吏部尚书。
承圣三年，江陵没，与俱入于周。
王承，字安期，仆射暕子。
七岁通《周易》，选补国子生。
年十五，射策高第，除秘书郎。
历太子舍人、南康王文学、邵陵王友、太子中舍人。
以父忧去职。
服阕，复为中舍人，累迁中书黄门侍郎，兼国子博士。
时膏腴贵游，咸以文学相尚，罕以经术为业，惟承独好之，发言吐论，造次儒者。
在学训诸生，述《礼》、《易》义。
translation: 
In ordinary years, he served as the secretary of the Prince of Xiangshu's palace and the secretary's office. He was transferred to the prison and still in charge of the secretary.
Zong Nao successively served as the county magistrate of Linru, Jiancheng, Guangjin and other places, and later served as the founder of Jingzhou.
After Shizu ascended the throne, he was appointed as Shangshu Lang, and granted him the title of Marquis of Xin'an County, with a settlement of 1,000 households.
Zong Mao was repeatedly promoted to the position of Doctor of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, Minister of the Five Soldiers, and Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs.
In the third year of Chengsheng's reign, Jiangling was captured, and both he and Liu Yao belonged to the Zhou Dynasty.
Wang Cheng, whose courtesy name was Anqi, was the son of Pu Shejian.
He was proficient in "Book of Changes" at the age of seven, and was elected as a replacement for the country's son.
At the age of fifteen, he participated in shooting shooting and achieved excellent results, and was awarded the title of Secretary Lang.
He successively held the posts of Prince Sheren, Nankang Wang Wenxue, Shaoling Wangyou, and Prince Zhongsheren.
He left his job because his father died.
After the mourning period expired, he was appointed as a member of Zhongshe, and was repeatedly promoted to the position of Minister of Huangmen of Zhongshu and Doctor of Guozi.
At that time, the sons of high-ranking officials, nobles, and wealthy people all boasted to each other about their writing skills. Few people specialized in Confucian classics. Only Wang Cheng loved Confucian classics and made speeches, which showed that he was an eloquent Confucian scholar.
He taught students in school and explained the classic meanings of "Li" and "Yi".


Chunk 6: 
original: 
中大通五年，迁长兼侍中，俄转国子祭酒。
承祖俭及父暕尝为此职，三世为国师，前代未之有也，当世以为荣。
久之，出为戎昭将军、东阳太守。
为政宽惠，吏民悦之。
视事未期，卒于郡，时年四十一。
谥曰章子。
承性简贵有风格。
时右卫硃异当朝用事，每休下，车马常填门。
时有魏郡申英好危言高论，以忤权右，常指异门曰： 此中辐辏，皆以利往。能不至者，惟有大小王东阳。
小东阳，即承弟稚也。
当时惟承兄弟及褚翔不至异门，时以此称之。
褚翔，字世举，河南阳翟人。
曾祖渊，齐太宰文简公，佐命齐室。
祖蓁，太常穆子。
父向，字景政。
translation: 
In the fifth year of Zhongdatong, Wang Chengqian was appointed as the chief and attendant, and soon he was transferred to the post of Guozi Jijiu.
Wang Cheng's grandfather Wang Jian and father Wang Liao both held the position of serving as ministers. Three generations of their ancestors and grandchildren have served as princes of the state to offer wine. This did not happen to the previous generation, and contemporary people think it is a great honor.
After a long encounter, Wang Cheng left the capital and served as General Rongzhao and Prefect of Shuyang.
Wang Cheng managed political affairs with kindness and benevolence, and both officials and people loved him.
Wang Cheng died in Shuyang County less than one year after serving. He was forty-one years old.
The imperial court gave Mi a title of Zhang Zi.
Wang Cheng naturally despises the backbone of powerful people.
At that time, the right-guard general Zhu Yi was in power in the court. Whenever Zhu Yi went home on vacation, his door was often filled with cars and horses, and there was a constant flow of people coming to visit him.
At that time, Wei Jun Shen Ying liked to speak out and criticize the powerful. He often pointed to Zhu Yi's gate and said: "Everyone who comes and goes from Bao Baomian is here for profit. The only person who can't come to Bao Xiang is Wang Shuyang."
Xiao Shuyang is Wang Cheng's younger brother Wang Zhi.
At that time, only the two brothers Wang Cheng and Chu Xiang did not go to Zhu Yi's house, and people praised them for this.
Chu Xiang, courtesy name Shiju, was born in Yangzhai, Henan.
His great-grandfather Chu Yuan was the Grand Prime Minister of Qi Dynasty at that time, and he gave it to Duke Wen Jian as a gift to assist the Qi family.
Grandfather Chu Zhen, posthumously gifted it to Taichang and Mi Muzi.
Father Chu Xiang, courtesy name Jingzheng.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
年数岁，父母相继亡没，向哀毁若成人者，亲表咸异之。
既长，淹雅有器量。
高祖践阼，选补国子生。
起家秘书郎，迁太子舍人、尚书殿中郎。
出为安成内史。还除太子洗马、中舍人，累迁太尉从事中郎、黄门侍郎、镇右豫章王长史。
顷之，入为长兼侍中。
向风仪端丽，眉目如点，每公庭就列，为众所瞻望焉。
大通四年，出为宁远将军北中郎庐陵王长史。三年，卒官。
外兄谢举为制墓铭，其略曰： 弘治推华，子嵩惭量；酒归月下，风清琴上。
论者以为拟得其人。
翔初为国子生，举高第。
丁父忧。服阕，除秘书郎，累迁太子舍人、宣城王主簿。
translation: 
When Chu Xiangcai was just a few years old, his parents died one after another. He was devastated and described as being as thin as an adult. His relatives were very surprised.
When he grew up, Chu Xiang became knowledgeable, elegant, and thoughtful.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Chu Xiang was by-elected as the son of the country.
Chu Xiang was recruited from his family as Secretary Lang, and later moved to the position of Prince Sheren and Minister of the Palace of Secretaries.
He left the capital and served as the internal history of Ancheng. When he returned to the capital, he served as the prince's Xima and Zhongsheren. He was promoted to the prince many times and worked as a Zhonglang, a Huangmen minister, and the chief historian of the Zhenyou Yuzhang king.
Soon after, he entered the capital and served as chief and attendant.
Chu Xiang was upright, handsome and graceful, with clear features and bright eyes. Standing among his colleagues, he would be looked at by everyone.
In the fourth year of Taitong, he left the capital and served as General Ningyuan and Wang Changshi, doctor of Beizhong Langlu. He died in office three years later.
His cousin Xie Gao wrote an epitaph for him, summarizing Chu Xiang's character: Du Hongzhi admired his appearance, and Yu Zisong felt inferior to him. His conduct is noble and pure, like the breeze and the bright moon.
Commentators believe that it describes Chu Xiang's character.
Chu Xiang was originally a student of the country and had excellent grades.
He mourned for his father and served as Secretary Lang after his term expired. After repeated promotions, he was promoted to Prince Sheren and Xuancheng King's Registrar.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
中大通五年，高祖宴群臣乐游苑，别诏翔与王训为二十韵诗，限三刻成。
翔于坐立奏，高祖异焉，即日转宣城王文学，俄迁为友。
时宣城友、文学加它王二等，故以翔超为之，时论美焉。
出为义兴太守。翔在政洁已，省繁苛，去浮费，百姓安之。
郡之西亭有古树，积年枯死；翔至郡，忽更生枝叶，百姓咸以为善政所感。
及秩满，吏民诣阙请之，敕许焉。
寻征为吏部郎，去郡，百姓无老少追送出境，涕泣拜辞。
翔居小选公清，不为请属易意，号为平允。
俄迁侍中，顷之转散骑常侍，领羽林监，侍东宫。
出为晋陵太守，在郡未期，以公事免。
俄复为散骑常侍，侍东宫。
太清二年，迁守吏部尚书。
其年冬，侯景围宫城，翔于围内丁母忧，以毁卒，时年四十四。
诏赠本官。
翔少有孝性。
为侍中时，母疾笃，请沙门祈福。中夜忽见户外有异光，又闻空中弹指，及晓，疾遂愈。
咸以翔精诚所致焉。
translation: 
In the fifth year of Zhongdatong, Emperor Gaozu hosted a banquet in Leyou Garden to entertain the ministers, and issued a special edict to King Chu Xiangyu to compose a poem of twenty rhymes, with a limit of three moments to complete it.
Chu Xiang completed it impromptu and presented it to Emperor Gaozu. Emperor Gaozu was very surprised. On the same day, he ordered Chu Xiang to be transferred to Xuancheng Wang Wenxue, and soon he was transferred to Xuancheng Wangyou.
At that time, Xuancheng Wang You and Xuancheng Wang Wenxue were two ranks higher than other kings' subordinate officials. Therefore, Emperor Gaozu promoted Chu Xiang to this position, which was said to be a good story at the time.
Chu Xiang came to the capital and served as the prefect of Yixing. He was honest in government, kept himself clean, reduced complicated and harsh government decrees, and eliminated flashy and extravagant expenses. The people's lives were very peaceful.
There was an old tree in the West Pavilion of Yixing that had been dead for many years. After Chu Xiang arrived in Yixing, the tree suddenly sprouted new branches and leaves. The people thought that they were moved by his good governance.
When his term expired, officials and people went to the capital to request that he be re-elected, and the emperor agreed.
Soon, the imperial court recruited Chu Xiang as the official official. When Chu Xiang left the county, the people, old and young, followed him out of the country. People cried and said goodbye to him.
When Chu Xiang was the official, he was fair and honest, and would not change his opinions because of other people's requests and instructions. People praised him for his fairness and fairness.
Soon, he was transferred to the position of servant, and soon he was transferred to the position of regular servant of Sanqi, leading the Yulin Supervisor and serving the East Palace.
Later, he went to Beijing to serve as the prefect of Jinling. He served for less than one year and was dismissed due to official business.
Soon he was appointed as a regular attendant of Sanqi and served in Shu Palace.
In the second year of Taiqing's reign, he moved to the post of Minister of the Ministry of Officials.
That winter, Hou Jing besieged the palace city. Chu Xiang mourned for his mother in the besieged city. He died of grief at the age of forty-four.
The emperor sent him to Shao as a posthumous posthumous title as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
Chu Xiang had a filial piety when he was young.
When he was serving as an attendant, his mother was very ill. He asked the monks to pray for his mother. Suddenly he saw a strange light outside the door in the middle of the night and heard the sound of snapping fingers in the air. When it was dawn, his mother's illness was cured.
People think this is due to Chu Xiang's sincerity.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
萧介，字茂镜，兰陵人也。
祖思话，宋开府仪同三司、尚书仆射。
父惠茜，齐左民尚书。
介少颖悟，有器识，博涉经史，兼善属文。
齐永元末，释褐著作佐郎。
天监六年，除太子舍人。
八年，迁尚书金部郎。
十二年，转主客郎。出为吴令，甚著声绩。
湘东王闻介名，思共游处，表请之。
普通三年，乃以介为湘东王谘议参军。
大通二年，除给事黄门侍郎。
大同二年，武陵王为扬州刺史，以介为府长史，在职清白，为朝廷所称。
高祖谓何敬容曰： 萧介甚贫，可处以一郡。
敬容未对，高祖曰： 始兴郡顷无良守，岭上民颇不安，可以介为之。
由是出为始兴太守。
介至任，宣布威德，境内肃清。
七年，征为少府卿，寻加散骑常侍。
会侍中阙，选司举王筠等四人，并不称旨，高祖曰： 我门中久无此职，宜用萧介为之。
介博物强识，应对左右，多所匡正，高祖甚重之。
迁都官尚书，每军国大事，必先询访于介焉。
高祖谓硃异曰： 端右之材也。
中大同二年，辞疾致事，高祖优诏不许。终不肯起，乃遣谒者仆射魏祥就拜光禄大夫。
太清中，侯景于涡阳败走，入寿阳。
高祖敕防主韦默纳之，介闻而上表谏曰：臣抱患私门，窃闻侯景以涡阳败绩，只马归命，陛下不悔前祸，复敕容纳。
translation: 
Xiao Jie, courtesy name Mao Jing, was born in Lanling.
His grandfather, Xiao Sihua, served as the third secretary of the Kaifu Yitong and the minister of Pushe during the Song Dynasty.
His father Xiao Huipu was the Minister of Zuo Min during the Qi Dynasty.
Xiao Jie has been smart, savvy, and knowledgeable since he was a child. He has extensively read classics and history books, and is also good at writing articles.
In the late years of Qi Yongyuan, he first became an official as Zuo Lang.
In the sixth year of Tianjian, he was appointed as Prince Sheren.
In the eighth year of Tianjian, he was moved to the post of Shangshu Jinbulang.
In the twelfth year of Tianjian, he was transferred to the position of host and guest, and then left the capital to serve as Wu Ling. He had outstanding political achievements and a high reputation.
The King of Xiangdong heard about Xiao Jie's reputation and wanted to make friends with him, so he asked the emperor to let Xiao Jie be his subordinate official.
Three years later, the imperial court appointed Xiao Jie as the King of Eastern Hunan to consult and join the army.
In the second year of Datong, Xiao Jie was appointed as the minister of Huangmen.
In the second year of Datong, King Wuling became the governor of Yangzhou and appointed Xiao Jie as the governor of the governor. Xiao Jie was praised by the court for his integrity during his tenure.
Emperor Gaozu said to He Jingrong: Xiao Jie is very poor, and a county can be given to him to govern.
Before He Jingrong could answer, Emperor Gaozu said: There has been no good governor in Shixing County recently, and the people on the mountain are very unsettled. Xiao Jie can be appointed as the governor.
Therefore, Xiao Jie left the capital and served as the prefect of Shixing.
After Xiao Jie took office, he openly handled cases that violated laws and regulations, and spread virtue policies widely, and soon the territory was peaceful.
In the seventh year of Datong, Xiao Jie was recruited as a Shaofu Qing, and soon he was added as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
It happened that there was a vacancy in the palace, and the official department recommended Wang Yun and four other people, but none of them met the emperor's liking. Emperor Gaozu said: "There has been no one in the palace for a long time, so Xiao Jie should be appointed."
Xiao Jie was knowledgeable and had an extraordinary memory. He often made corrections when dealing with the emperor, and Gaozu valued him very much.
Later, Xiao Jie was moved to the position of Minister of the Capital. Whenever there was a major national event, Gaozu would always seek his advice first.
Emperor Gaozu said to Zhu Yi: This man is a prime minister.
In the second year of Datong, Xiao Jie resigned due to illness and requested to retire. Emperor Gaozu issued an edict to commend him, but refused to allow him to retire.
During the Taiqing period, Hou Jing fled from Guoyang and fled to Shouyang. Emperor Gaozu ordered the defense chief Wei An to accept him.
When Xiao Jie heard about this, he went to the court to remonstrate and said: "I am recovering at home. I heard that Hou Jing was defeated in Guoyang and surrendered alone. Your Majesty did not regret the trouble he caused before, but instead ordered to accept him."


Chunk 10: 
original: 
臣闻凶人之性不移，天下之恶一也。
昔吕布杀丁原以事董卓，终诛董而为贼；刘牢反王恭以归晋，还背晋以构妖。
何者？
狼子野心，终无驯狎之性；养虎之喻，必见饥噬之祸。
侯景兽心之种，鸣镝之类。
以凶狡之才，荷高欢翼长之遇，位忝台司，任居方伯；然而高欢坟土未干，即还反噬。
逆力不逮，乃复逃死关西；宇文不容，故复投身于我。
陛下前者所以不逆细流，正欲以属国降胡以讨匈奴，冀获一战之效耳。
今既亡师失地，直是境上之匹夫。陛下爱匹夫而弃与国之好，臣窃不取也。
若国家犹待其更鸣之晨，岁暮之效，臣窃惟侯景必非岁暮之臣。
弃乡国如脱屣，背君亲如遗芥，岂知远慕圣德，为江淮之纯臣！
事迹显然，无可致惑。
一隅尚其如此，触类何可具陈？
translation: 
I heard that the nature of evil people will not change, and all evil people in the world are the same.
In the past, Lu Bu killed Ding Yuan and defected to Dong Zhuo, and eventually killed Dong Zhuo and became a traitor; Liu Lao betrayed Wang Gong and submitted to the Jin Dynasty, but later betrayed the Jin Dynasty and caused disaster.
What is the reason for this?
The ambition of a wolf will never be tamed and close; the metaphor of raising tigers will bring disaster, which means that those who raise tigers will definitely be eaten by hungry tigers.
Hou Jing has the heart of an animal, like a murderous arrow.
With his fierce and cunning talent, he won the favor of Gao Huan and stole the position of the three princes, becoming the dominant local governor. However, before Gao Huan's grave was dry, he immediately turned around and rebelled.
The strength to rebel was not enough, so he fled to Kansai for his life. Yuwen did not accept him, so he took refuge with us again.
Your Majesty had previously accepted him like a river, not rejecting a trickle. The reason was that you wanted to entrust him with the important affairs of the country, let him surrender the barbarians, attack the Huns, and hope to win the battle.
Now that he has lost his army and his land, he is just a common man on the border. Your Majesty, you love this common man and abandon the friendly exchanges with allied countries. I think this is an approach that should not be taken.
The emperor also hopes that Hou Jing will cheer up again and contribute to the court in his later years. I think Hou Jing must not be an old minister who can contribute to the country.
He abandons his homeland like taking off his shoes without any care, and betrays the king like throwing away grass and grass without any emotion. How could he know how to admire Shengde and be a loyal minister of Jianghuai?
The signs of trouble are obvious and there is nothing to doubt.
If this is the case on the one hand, there is no need to state other similar things one by one.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
臣朽老疾侵，不应辄干朝政。但楚囊将死，有城郢之忠；卫鱼临亡，亦有尸谏之节。
臣忝为宗室遗老，敢忘刘向之心？
伏愿天慈，少思危苦之语。
高祖省表叹息，卒不能用。
介性高简，少交游，惟与族兄琛、从兄眎素及洽、从弟淑等文酒赏会，时人以比谢氏乌衣之游。
初，高祖招延后进二十余人，置酒赋诗。臧盾以诗不成，罚酒一斗，盾饮尽，颜色不变，言笑自若；介染翰便成，文无加点。高祖两美之曰： 臧盾之饮，萧介之文，即席之美也。
年七十三，卒于家。
第三子允，初以兼散骑常侍聘魏，还为太子中庶子，后至光禄大夫。
洽，字宏称，介从父兄也。
父惠基，齐吏部尚书，有重名前世。
translation: 
I am old and sick, and I should not interfere in the affairs of the state without authorization. However, when the son of Chu State was about to die, he had the loyalty to build the city of Ying. When Shi Yu, the guardian of the country, was about to die, he also had the integrity to admonish the emperor with his corpse.
I am ashamed to be a veteran of the clan, and I dare not forget my due loyalty.
The old minister sincerely hopes that your majesty will be kind enough to forgive my sins and think about what I have said.
Emperor Gaozu sighed after reading the seal, but in the end he did not adopt his idea.
Xiao Jie was arrogant by nature and seldom interacted with others. He only wrote poems, drank wine and enjoyed the scenery with his clan brother Xiao Qiang, cousins ​​Lu Paixai and Lu Ji, cousin Jiao Ao and others. At that time, people compared their gatherings to the Xie family's Wuyi tour.
At the beginning, Emperor Gaozu invited more than 20 of his descendants to drink wine and compose poems. They were punished with a pint of wine because they did not write the poems. They drank them all with folded shields, but their expressions did not change, and they talked and laughed freely.
Xiao Jie died at home when he was seventy-three years old.
Xiao Jie's third son, Xiao Yun, initially served as an envoy to the Wei Dynasty as a regular servant of Sanqi. After returning to the court, he served as the crown prince's concubine. Later, his official position was promoted to Guanglu doctor.
Xiao Qia, also known as Hongcheng, is Xiao Jie's cousin.
His father, Xiao Huiji, was the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel during the Qi Dynasty and was famous in previous generations.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
洽幼敏寤，年七岁，诵《楚辞》略上口。
及长，好学博涉，亦善属文。
齐永明中，为国子生，举明经。起家著作佐郎，迁西中郎外兵参军。
天监初，为前军鄱阳王主簿、尚书囗部郎，迁太子中舍人。
出为南徐州治中，既近畿重镇，史数千人，前后居之者皆致巨富。
洽为之，清身率职，馈遗一无所受，妻子不免饥寒。
还除司空从事中郎，为建安内史，坐事免。
久之，起为护军长史、北中郎谘议参军，迁太府卿、司徒临川王司马。
普通初，拜员外散骑常侍，兼御史中丞，以公事免。
顷之，为通直散骑常侍。
洽少有才思，高祖令制同泰、大爱敬二寺刹下铭，其文甚美。
二年，迁散骑常侍。出为招远将军、临海太守。
为政清平，不尚威猛，民俗便之。
还拜司徒左长史，又敕撰《当涂堰碑》，辞亦赡丽。
translation: 
Xiao Qian was smart and perceptive when he was young. When he was seven years old, he could read "Chu Ci" fluently and without any mistakes.
As an adult, he loved learning, read a wide range of books, and was good at writing articles.
During the next year of Qi Yong, he was born in Yuanzi and was appointed Mingjing by Gao. He was recruited from his family as Zuo Lang and was promoted to Xizhong Lang to join the army.
In the early years of Tianjian, he served as the chief secretary of the former army of Poyang King and the official of Shangshu Koubu. He was also promoted to Prince Zhongsheren.
Xiao Jie left the capital and was appointed as the governor of Southern Xuzhou. South Xuzhou is an important town close to the capital, with thousands of officials, and those who have served as officials here have become extremely rich.
When Xiao Qian took office, he was honest and dedicated to the public affairs. He would not accept gifts from others. His wife and children would inevitably suffer from hunger and cold.
He returned to Beijing and served as Sikong, Zhonglang, and Jian'an internal historian. He was dismissed from his post after being found guilty.
After a long time, he was re-appointed as Shi, the commander of the guard army. Beizhonglang consulted to join the army, and was promoted to the position of Taifuqing, Situ, King Sima of Linchuan.
In the early years of the ordinary year, Zheji was appointed as a regular servant of Yuanwai Sanqi and also as a censor Zhongcheng. He was dismissed due to official business.
Soon after, he was appointed as a regular attendant of Tongzhi Sanqi.
Xiao Qia was talented and quick in writing when he was young. The inscriptions ordered by Emperor Gaozu to write Huitai and under the pagodas of two temples are very beautiful.
In the second year of ordinary life, he was promoted to the rank of regular attendant of Sanqi, and went to the capital to serve as General Zhaoyuan and Prefect of Linhai.
He is honest and fair in government, does not advocate majesty and ferocity, and the people feel very comfortable.
He returned to Beijing and was appointed Situ Zuo as the Chief Historian. He was also ordered to write the "Dangtuyan Stele" with rich and gorgeous diction.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
六年，卒官，时年五十五。
有诏出举哀，赙钱二万，布五十匹。
集二十卷，行于世。
褚球，字仲宝，河南阳翟人。
高祖叔度，宋征虏将军、雍州刺史；祖暧，太宰外兵参军；父缋，太子舍人；并尚宋公主。
球少孤贫，笃志好学，有才思。
宋建平王景素，元徽中诛灭，惟有一女得存。
其故吏何昌珝、王思远闻球清立，以此女妻之，因为之延誉。
仕齐，起家征虏行参军，俄署法曹，迁右军曲江公主簿。
出为溧阳令，在县清白，资公俸而已。
除平西主簿。
天监初，迁太子洗马、散骑侍郎，兼中书通事舍人。
translation: 
Ordinary six years, Xiao Qia died in office at the age of fifty-five.
The emperor ordered the funeral to be held in mourning in the capital, and he was given 20,000 yuan and fifty pieces of cloth for his family to attend the funeral.
Xiao Qia authored twenty volumes of collected works, which are widely circulated in the world.
Chu Qiu, courtesy name Zhongbao, was born in Yangzhai, Henan.
His great-great-grandfather, Uncle Du, served as the general who conquered the captives and the governor of Yongzhou during the Song Dynasty. His grandfather Chu Ai served as Dazai and joined the army as a foreign soldier. His father, Chu Ji, was appointed as the crown prince. These people all married princesses from the Song Dynasty.
Chu Qiu's father died when he was young. His family was poor, but he was dedicated, studious, and quick-thinking.
Liu Jingsu, King Jianping of Song Dynasty, was executed during the reign of Chengluan, leaving only one daughter alive.
His old subordinates He Changjuan and Wang Siyuan heard that Chu Qiu was noble and loyal, so they married the girl to him and continued to spread his reputation.
Chu Qiu became an official in the Qi Dynasty. At first, he served as Zhenglu Xing and joined the army. Soon he acted on behalf of Fa Cao and was promoted to the title of Princess Qujiang of the Right Army.
Chu Qiu came out of Beijing to serve as the magistrate of Liyang. During his tenure, he was honest and upright, and he only lived on his salary.
Later, he was appointed as the chief administrator of Pingxi.
In the early years of Tianjian, Chu Qiu was promoted to Prince Xima, Sanqi Shilang, and Zhongshu General Shiren.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
出为建康令，母忧去职，以本官起之，固辞不拜。
服阕，除北中郎谘议参军，俄迁中书郎，复兼中书通事舍人。
除云骑将军，累兼廷尉、光禄卿，舍人如故。
迁御史中丞。
球性公强，无所屈挠，在宪司甚称职。
普通四年，出为北中郎长史、南兰陵太守；入为通直散骑常侍，领羽林监。
七年，迁太府卿，顷之，迁都官尚书。
中大同中，出为仁威临川王长史、江夏太守，以疾不赴职。
改授光禄大夫，未拜，复为太府卿，领步兵校尉。
俄迁通直散骑常侍、秘书监，领著作。
迁司徒左长史，常侍、著作如故。
自魏孙礼、晋荀组以后，台佐加貂，始有球也。
寻出为贞威将军轻车河东王长史、南兰陵太守；入为散骑常侍，领步兵。
寻表致仕，诏不许。
俄复拜光禄大夫，加给事中。卒官，时年七十。
translation: 
He came to the capital to serve as the Jiankang Order, and resigned after his mother died. Later, the imperial court asked him to recuperate during the mourning period and take up his original post, but he resolutely refused to take up the post.
After the mourning period expired, he was appointed Beizhonglang to consult and join the army. Soon he was promoted to Zhongshulang, and also served as Zhongshu Tongshiren.
Chu Qiu was also awarded the title of General Yunqi, and was promoted to concurrently serving as Tingwei and Guangluqing. As before, he also served as Zhongshu General and Shiren.
Later he was promoted to censor Zhongcheng.
Chu Qiu has a fair and strong character. Nothing can make him give in. He is very qualified as the censor Zhongcheng.
In ordinary four years, he went to Beijing to serve as the chief historian of Beizhong Lang and the prefect of Nanlanling. Then he went to Beijing and served as a regular attendant of Tongzhi Sanqi, and also served as the supervisor of Yulin.
In ordinary seven years, he was promoted to the position of Taifuqing, and soon he was promoted to Duguan Shangshu.
During the reign of Zhongdatong, he went to Beijing to serve as Renwei, Prince Changshi of Linchuan, and Grand Administrator of Jiangxia. He did not go to his post because of illness.
The imperial court appointed him as Guanglu doctor, but before he accepted it, he was appointed as Taifu Qing and an infantry captain.
Soon he was promoted to be the regular attendant of Tongzhi Sanqi, secretary supervisor, and leader of books.
Later, he was promoted to Situ Zuo Changshi, and his positions of regular attendant and author remained unchanged.
Since Sun Li in the Wei Dynasty and Jianyu in the Jin Dynasty, Chu Qiu has been the official assistant to the three princes.
Soon after, he left the capital and served as General Zhenwei, Qingche, Hedong Wang Changshi, and his mother's mother Lu Taishou. After entering the capital, he served as a regular attendant on the cavalry and led the infantry.
Soon, Shang Biao requested to resign from his official position, but the emperor issued an edict not to allow it.
Soon after, he was awarded the title of Guanglu Doctor, and he died in office at the age of seventy.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
刘孺，字孝稚，彭城安上里人也。
祖勔，宋司空忠昭公。
父悛，齐太常敬子。
孺幼聪敏，七岁能属文。
年十四，居父丧，毁瘠骨立，宗党咸异之。
服阕，叔父瑱为义兴郡，携以之官，常置坐侧，谓宾客曰： 此儿吾家之明珠也。
既长，美风采，性通和，虽家人不见其喜愠。
本州召迎主簿。
起家中军法曹行参军。时镇军沈约闻其名，引为主簿，常与游宴赋诗，大为约所嗟赏。
累迁太子舍人、中军临川王主簿、太子洗马、尚书殿中郎。
出为太末令，在县有清绩。
还除晋安王友，转太子中舍人。
孺少好文章，性又敏速，尝于御坐为《李赋》，受诏便成，文不加点，高祖甚称赏之。
后侍宴寿光殿，诏群臣赋诗，时孺与张率并醉，未及成，高祖取孺手板题戏之曰： 张率东南美，刘孺雒阳才。揽笔便应就，何事久迟回？
translation: 
Liu Ru, whose courtesy name is Xiaozhi, was born in Anshangli, Pengcheng.
His grandfather, Liu Meng, served as Sikong during the Song Dynasty and followed Duke Zhongzhao of Mi.
His father, Liu Chan, was Taichang at the time of Qi Dynasty, and Mi was the son of Jing.
Liu Ru was smart and alert when he was young and could write articles at the age of seven.
When he was fourteen years old, he was in mourning for his father. He was so emaciated due to grief that his tribe and villagers were surprised by this.
After the mourning period was over, his uncle Liu Zhen was appointed as the prefect of Yixing County. He took him to his post and often sat him beside him and said to his guests: "This child is the pearl of my family."
As an adult, Liu Ru was personable and had a gentle and gentle temperament. Even his family members had never seen him moody or angry.
The state chose him as its chief registrar.
At the beginning of Liu Ru's career, he served as the Central Military Law Enforcement Officer Cao Xing and joined the army. At that time, Shen Yue of the town army heard about his reputation and selected him as the chief secretary. He often traveled and gathered with him to compose poems. Shen Yue admired his literary talent very much.
Liu Ru was promoted many times to serve as the prince's sheren, the chief secretary of the Linchuan king of the Chinese army, the prince's horse washer, and the lieutenant in the Shangshu palace.
He came to Beijing as Tai Mo Ling and had a clean and honest political performance during his tenure.
After he returned to Beijing, he was appointed as King You of Jin'an, and then as Prince Zhongsheren.
Liu Ru liked to write articles when he was young, and he was agile by nature. He once wrote "Li Fu" by the emperor's side.
Later, when he was serving a banquet in the Shouguang Hall, Gaozu ordered his officials to compose poems. Liu Ru and Zhang Shu were both drunk at the time, and before the poems were completed, Gaozu took Liu Ru's hand and wrote poems to make fun of them: Zhang Shu is a handsome man from the southeast, and Liu Ru is a talented man from Luoyang. He should have written it as soon as he picked up the pen. Why is it so late?


Chunk 16: 
original: 
其见亲爱如此。
转中书郎，兼中书通事舍人。
顷之迁太子家令，余如故。
出为宣惠晋安王长史，领丹阳尹丞。迁太子中庶子、尚书吏部郎。
出为轻车湘东王长史，领会稽郡丞，公事免。
顷之，起为王府记室散骑侍郎，兼光禄卿。
累迁少府卿、司徒左长史、御史中丞，号为称职。
大通二年，迁散骑常侍。
三年，迁左民尚书，领步兵校尉。
中大通四年，出为仁威临川王长史、江夏太守，加贞威将军。
五年，为宁远将军、司徒左长史，未拜，改为都官尚书，领右军将军。
大同五年，守吏部尚书。
其年，出为明威将军、晋陵太守。
在郡和理，为吏民所称。
七年，入为侍中，领右军。
其年，复为吏部尚书，以母忧去职。
translation: 
He was so closely respected by Emperor Gaozu.
Liu Ru was transferred to the post of Zhongshu Lang, and also served as Zhongshu general secretary.
Soon he was moved to the position of Prince's family magistrate, and other official positions remained unchanged.
Liu Ru left the capital and served as the chief historian of Xuanhui, King of Jin'an, led Danyang Yincheng, and moved to the position of prince's concubine and minister of official affairs.
He came out of Beijing to serve as the chief historian of Qingche Xiangshu King, and served as the magistrate of Kuaiji County. He was dismissed due to official business.
Soon he was re-appointed as the royal secretary, the minister of Sanqi, and the minister of Guanglu.
Lei Jing was promoted to the post of Shaofu Qing, Situ Zuo Changshi, and Yushi Zhongcheng. He was considered qualified for the position.
In the second year of Qutong's reign, he moved to the position of regular attendant of Sanqi.
In the third year of Datong, he moved to Zuo Min Shangshu and led the infantry school captain.
In the fourth year of Zhongdatong, Liu Ru came to Beijing and served as Renwei, Prince Changshi of Linchuan, Grand Administrator of Jiangxia, and General Jia Zhenwei.
In the fifth year of Zhongdatong, he was appointed as General Ningyuan and Situ Zuo Changshi. Before he was awarded the official title, he was appointed Duguan Shangshu and led the right army general.
In the fifth year of Datong, he served as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
That year, he went to Beijing to serve as General Mingwei and Landing Prefect.
The political affairs are managed smoothly and smoothly, and he is praised by the officials and the people.
In the seventh year of Datong, he entered Beijing as a servant and led the right army.
At that time, he was appointed Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but resigned because his mother died.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
居丧未期，以毁卒，时年五十九。
谥曰孝子。
孺少与从兄苞、孝绰齐名。苞早卒，孝绰数坐免黜，位并不高，惟孺贵显。
有文集二十卷。
子刍，著作郎，早卒。
孺二弟：览、遵。
览，字孝智，十六通《老》、《易》。
历官中书郎，以所生母忧，庐于墓。再期，口不尝盐酪，冬止著单布。
家人患其不胜丧，中夜窃置炭于床下，览因暖气得睡，既觉知之，号恸欧血。
高祖闻其有至性，数省视之。
服阕，除尚书左丞。
性聪敏，尚书令史七百人，一见并记名姓。
当官清正，无所私。
姊夫御史中丞褚湮、从兄吏部郎孝绰，在职颇通赃货，览劾奏，并免官。
孝绰怨之，尝谓人曰： 犬啮行路，览噬家人。
出为始兴内史，治郡尤励清节。
translation: 
Before the mourning period was over, he died of excessive grief at the age of fifty-nine.
Mi was named Filial Son.
When Liu Ru was young, he was as famous as his cousins ​​Bao and Xiaochuo. Bao died young and Xiaochuo was dismissed from office many times for crimes. Their status was not high, only Liu Ru was famous.
Liu Ru is the author of twenty volumes of collected works.
Liu Ru's son Liu Cu, who served as a scholar, died young.
Liu Ru has two younger brothers: Liu Lan and Liu Zun.
Liu Lan, whose courtesy name was Xiaozhi, was proficient in "Lao" and "Yi" at the age of sixteen.
He was appointed Zhongshu Lang. Because he was in mourning for his biological mother, he lived in a thatched hut next to the cemetery. He ate a light vegetarian diet for two years, did not taste salt and sauce, and wore only single cloth clothes in winter.
Worried that he could not bear the grief during the mourning period, his family secretly placed a charcoal fire under his bed in the middle of the night. Liu Lan fell asleep because there was a heater in the room. When he woke up and found out about this, he howled and cried to the point of vomiting blood.
Emperor Gaozu heard that he had the utmost filial piety and visited him many times.
After the period of mourning expired, he was appointed as Minister Zuocheng.
Liu Lan was a smart person. He had a history of 700 people. He could remember the names of people he met.
Liu Lan was an honest and fair official with no selfish motives.
His brother-in-law, Yushi Zhongcheng Chuyan, and his cousin, Libu Lang Liu Xiaochuo, often accepted bribes while in office. Liu Lan reported to the emperor for impeachment, and both of them were removed from their official positions.
Liu Xiaochuo resented Liu Lan and once told people: Dogs bite passers-by, but Liu Lan bites his own family.
Liu Lan came to Beijing to serve as Shixing's internal history and manage political affairs. He worked hard to remain clean and honest.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
还复为左丞，卒官。
遵，字孝陵。
少清雅，有学行，工属文。
起家著作郎、太子舍人，累迁晋安王宣惠、云麾二府记室，甚见宾礼，转南徐州治中。
王后为雍州，复引为安北谘议参军，带邔县令。
中大通二年，王立为皇太子，仍除中庶子。
遵自随籓及在东宫，以旧恩，偏蒙宠遇，同时莫及。
大同元年，卒官。皇太子深悼惜之，与遵从兄阳羡令孝仪令曰：
贤从中庶，奄至殒逝，痛可言乎！
其孝友淳深，立身贞固；内含玉润，外表澜清。
美誉嘉声，流于士友；言行相符，终始如一。
文史该富，琬琰为心；辞章博赡，玄黄成采。
既以鸣谦表性，又以难进自居，未尝造请公卿，缔交荣利。是以新沓莫之举，社武弗之知。自阮放之官，野王之职，栖迟门下，已逾五载；同僚已陟，后进多升，而怡然清静，不以少多为念。确尔之志，亦何易得？
translation: 
After he returned to Beijing, he was appointed Minister Zuocheng and died in office.
Liu Zun's courtesy name is Xiaoling.
When he was young, he was noble, elegant, knowledgeable, of good conduct, and good at writing articles.
At the beginning of his career, Liu Zun was appointed as a writer, and the prince gave up his duties. After repeated promotions, he was promoted to the office of Jin'an Wang Xuanhui and Yunhui, and received great courtesy. He later transferred to the post of governor of Southern Xuzhou.
King Jin'an later served as the governor of Yongzhou, and selected Liu Zun to join the army at Anbei Consultation and lead the county magistrate.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, King Jin'an was established as the crown prince, and then Liu Zun was appointed as the concubine.
Liu Zuncong followed King Jin'an first in the feudal town and later in the Cambodian palace. Because of his past kindness, he received special favor. No one could catch up with him at that time.
In the first year of Datong, Liu Zun died in office. The crown prince deeply mourned him and felt sorry for his passing. He wrote an edict to Liu Zun's cousin Yang Xianling Liu Xiaoyi saying:
Liu Zun, the concubine among the virtuous cousins, passed away suddenly. How can I express my sorrow in words?
He is filial to his parents, loving and loving to his brothers. If you stick to the right path in life and in life, you will have virtues like jade inside, and your appearance will be as clear as water.
His good reputation spread among his friends, and he was consistent in his words and deeds.
He is knowledgeable in literature and history, has good moral character in his heart, and writes rich and gorgeous words, weaving them into chapters and making them colorful.
He not only showed his humble nature, but also felt at ease in the position that was wasted. He never visited the public ministers, invited private friends, secretly made friends, and sought fame and fortune. Therefore, Xin Ta did not recommend him, and Du Wu failed to understand him, so that he was in Ruan Fang and Huan. The official position that Ye Wang once held has been in flux for more than five years. His colleagues have been promoted, and most of the juniors have been promoted. However, he enjoys himself, sticks to his quiet life, and does not care about his salary. Such unwavering ambition can never be found easily.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
西河观宝，东江独步，书籍所载，必不是过。
吾昔在汉南，连翩书记，及忝硃方，从容坐首。
良辰美景，清风月夜，鹢舟乍动，硃鹭徐鸣，未尝一日而不追随，一时而不会遇。
酒兰耳热，言志赋诗，校覆忠贤，榷扬文史，益者三友，此实其人。
及弘道下邑，未申善政，而能使民结去思，野多驯雉，此亦威凤一羽，足以验其五德。
比在春坊，载获申晤，博望无通宾之务，司成多节文之科。所赖故人，时相媲偶；而此子溘然，实可嗟痛。 惟与善人 ，此为虚说；天之报施，岂若此乎！
想卿痛悼之诚，亦当何已。
往矣奈何，投笔恻怆。
translation: 
Just like observing treasures in the West River and standing alone in the East River, what is recorded in ancient books will never exceed this kind of virtue.
In the past, when I was in Hannan, Liu Zun was re-elected as secretary, and when I took the position of Zhu Fang, he was again serving as chief.
On a good day with beautiful scenery, a clear breeze and a bright moonlit night, riding on a moor boat and listening to the ibis's whine, he never failed to accompany me and never failed to meet me.
During the banquet, when the wine was in full swing, we expressed our aspirations and wrote poems together, commented on the virtuous and virtuous, and discussed literature and history. The ancients said that there are three beneficial friends, and he was indeed that kind of beneficial friend.
He promoted education in small counties, and his virtues did not need to be reiterated repeatedly, but could make the people remember him for a long time when he left his post. Everyone had a heart of benevolence, so that docile wild pheasants could be seen everywhere in the wild, flying like a majestic phoenix feather. This shows Liu Zun's good governance, which is enough to verify that he has all kinds of virtues and talents.
By the time I entered the East Palace, we were able to meet and talk frequently. Being in Bowang Garden, I had no guests to interact with, and the supervisor was responsible for my moral education, and there were many etiquette regulations, so I had to accompany me as an old friend. Now that this old friend has passed away, it is really sad and sad. It is false to say that God only helps good people. Is this how God rewards people?
I can imagine how your heavy heart of pain and mourning can be stopped.
The person has passed away, and there is nothing I can do about it. When I put down my pen, I feel even more sad and sad.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
吾昨欲为志铭，并为撰集。
吾之劣薄，其生也不能揄扬吹歔，使得骋其才用，今者为铭为集，何益既往？
故为痛惜之情，不能已已耳。
刘潜，字孝仪，秘书监孝绰弟也。
幼孤，与兄弟相励勤学，并工属文。
孝绰常曰 三笔六诗 ，三即孝仪，六孝威也。
天监五年，举秀才。
起家镇右始兴王法曹行参军，随府益州，兼记室。
王入为中抚军，转主簿，迁尚书殿中郎。
敕令制《雍州平等金像碑》，文甚宏丽。
晋安王纲出镇襄阳，引为安北功曹史，以母忧去职。
王立为皇太子，孝仪服阕，仍补洗马，迁中舍人。
出为戎昭将军、阳羡令，甚有称绩，擢为建康令。
translation: 
Yesterday I wanted to write an epitaph for Liu Zun and compile a collection of his essays at the same time.
But I am weak in talent and cannot spread his reputation while he is alive so that he can show his talents. What benefit does writing inscriptions and compiling collections of essays for him now do to the dead?
It's just that I can't stop feeling this deep pain.
Liu Qian, also known as Xiaoyi, was the younger brother of secretary supervisor Liu Xiaochuo.
His father passed away when he was young. He and his brothers encouraged each other to study diligently. They were all good at writing articles.
Xing Maolong often said that the third brother's articles were good, and the sixth brother's poems were good. The third brother was Liu Xiaoyi, and the sixth brother was Liu Xiaowei.
In the fifth year of Tianjian, Liu Qian was promoted as a scholar.
He first became an official in Zhenyou and served as King Facao Xing of Shixing in Zhenyou. He joined the army and followed the palace to Yizhou, where he also served as a recorder.
King Shixing came to Beijing to serve as the Central Fujun, and Liu Qian was transferred to the position of Chief Secretary and then to the position of Zhonglang of Shangshu Palace.
The emperor ordered him to write the "Golden Statue Stele of Pingping Temple in Yongzhou", which is very magnificent and gorgeous.
Xiao Gang, King of Jin'an, came out of the capital to guard Xiangyang, and appointed Liu Xiaoyi as the Anbei Gongcao Shi. He resigned because of his mother's death.
The king of Jin'an established him as the crown prince, and Liu Xiaoyi's period of mourning expired. He was then appointed crown prince Xima and moved to Zhongsheren.
Liu Qian left the capital and served as General Rongzhao and Yangxian Ling. He had many acclaimed political achievements, so he was promoted to Jiankang Ling.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
大同三年，迁中书郎，以公事左迁安西谘议参军，兼散骑常侍。
使魏还，复除中书郎。
顷之，权兼司徒右长史，又兼宁远长史、行彭城琅邪二郡事。
累迁尚书左丞，兼御史中丞。在职弹纠无所顾望，当时称之。
十年，出为伏波将军、临海太守。
是时政网疏阔，百姓多不遵禁。
孝仪下车，宣示条制，励精绥抚，境内翕然，风俗大革。
中大同元年，入守都官尚书。
太清元年，出为明威将军、豫章内史。
二年，侯景寇京邑，孝仪遣子励帅郡兵三千人，随前衡州刺史韦粲入援。
三年，宫城不守，孝仪为前历阳太守庄铁所逼，失郡。
大宝元年，病卒，时年六十七。
孝仪为人宽厚，内行尤笃。
translation: 
In the third year of Datong, he moved to Zhongshu Lang and was demoted due to official duties. He was appointed as an advisor to Anxi to join the army and also served as a regular attendant on casual cavalry.
When he returned to Beijing as an envoy to Wei, he was appointed Zhongshu Lang.
Soon, he temporarily served as the chief historian of Situ You, the chief historian of Ningyuan, and the governor of Langye County in Pengcheng.
He was repeatedly promoted to the position of Minister Zuocheng and Yushi Zhongcheng. When he was in office, he was fearless in impeaching ministers. People at that time praised him.
In the tenth year of Datong, Liu Qian left the capital and served as General Fubo and Prefect of Linhai.
At this time, laws and regulations were relaxed, and many people did not abide by the ban.
As soon as Liu Xiaoyi took office, he announced the legal provisions and worked hard to appease the people. The territory soon settled down and the customs and sentiments of the people changed greatly.
In the first year of Zhong Datong, he came to Beijing and served as the governor of the capital.
In the first year of Taiqing, he came to Beijing and served as General Mingwei and Internal History of Yuzhang.
In the second year of Taiqing, Hou Jing invaded the capital. Liu Xiaoyi sent his son Liu Li to lead 3,000 soldiers from Yuzhang County to follow Wei Can, the former governor of Hengzhou, to the capital for rescue.
In the third year of Taiqing, the capital fell. Liu Xiaoyi was forced by Zhuang Tie, the former Liyang governor, and lost Yuzhang County.
In the first year of Dashi, Liu Xiaoyi died of illness at the age of sixty-seven.
Liu Xiaoyi is a generous person, and her conduct at home is also very sincere and dedicated.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
第二兄孝能早卒，孝仪事寡嫂甚谨，家内巨细，必先谘决。
与妻子朝夕供事，未尝失礼。
世以此称之。
有文集二十卷，行于世。
第五弟孝胜，历官邵陵王法曹、湘东王安西主簿记室、尚书左丞。
出为信义太守，公事免。
久之，复为尚书右丞，兼散骑常侍。
聘魏还，为安西武陵王纪长史、蜀郡太守。
太清中，侯景陷京师，纪僭号于蜀，以孝胜为尚书仆射。
承圣中，随纪出峡口，兵败，被执下狱。
世祖寻宥之，起为司徒右长史。
第六弟孝威，初为安北晋安王法曹，转主簿，以母忧去职。
服阕，除太子洗马，累迁中舍人、庶子、率更令，并掌管记。
大同九年，白雀集东宫，孝威上颂，其辞甚美。
太清中，迁中庶子，兼通事舍人。
及侯景寇乱，孝威于围城得出，随司州刺史柳仲礼西上，至安陆，遇疾卒。
第七弟孝先，武陵王法曹、主簿。王迁益州，随府转安西记室。
承圣中，与兄孝胜俱随纪军出峡口，兵败，至江陵，世祖以为黄门侍郎，迁侍中。
translation: 
His second brother Liu Xiaoneng died young, and he served his widowed sister-in-law very respectfully. No matter whether it is a big or small matter at home, you must first ask your sister-in-law before making a decision.
He and his wife support and serve his sister-in-law every day and have never behaved disrespectfully.
The world praised him for this.
Liu Xiaoyi wrote twenty volumes of collected works, which were passed down to later generations.
Liu Xiaoyi's fifth brother, Liu Xiaosheng, successively served as the Facao of Shaoling, the chief bookkeeper of Anxi, the king of eastern Hunan, and Zuo Cheng, the minister.
He left the capital to serve as the prefect of Xinyi, but was dismissed due to official business.
After meeting for a long time, he was again appointed as Minister Youcheng and concurrently as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
After returning to Beijing as an envoy to the State of Wei, he was appointed as the chief historian of Xiao Ji, King of Wuling in Anxi, and the prefect of Shu County.
During the Taiqing period, Hou Jing captured the capital, and Xiao Ji usurped the throne in Shu County and proclaimed himself king, appointing Liu Xiaosheng as Shangshu Pushe.
During the Chengsheng period, he followed Xiao Ji and sent troops to Xiakou. After the defeat, he was arrested and imprisoned.
Soon the emperor forgave him and appointed him as Situ Youzhangshi.
Liu Xiaoyi's sixth brother, Liu Xiaowei, first took up an official position as the Facao of Prince An in Anbei, and was transferred to the position of Chief Registrar. He resigned because of his mother's death.
After the period of mourning was over, he was appointed Prince to Wash Horses. He was promoted to Zhongshe Ren and Shuzi, and was given the title of Commander-in-Chief.
In the ninth year of Datong, Baique gathered in the East Palace, and Liu Xiaowei sang a beautiful ode to this event.
During the Taiqing period, he moved to the position of concubine, and concurrently served as general secretary.
During Hou Jing's rebellion, Liu Xiaowei escaped from the siege and followed Liu Zhongli, the governor of Sizhou, to the west. He arrived in Anlu and died of illness.
Liu Xiaoyi's seventh brother Liu Xiaoxian served as King Wuling's Facao and Chief Secretary. King Wuling moved to Yizhou to be the governor. He followed the palace to Yizhou and was transferred to the Anxi Record Office.
During the reign of Prime Minister Liu Xiaosheng, he and his brother Liu Xiaosheng followed Ji's army out of the gorge. After the defeat, they went to Jiangling. The emperor appointed him as the Huangmen Minister and moved him to the position of Minister.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
兄弟并善五言诗，见重于世。
文集值乱，今不具存。
殷芸，字灌蔬，陈郡长平人。
性倜傥，不拘细行。然不妄交游，门无杂客。
励精勤学，博洽群书。
幼而庐江何宪见之，深相叹赏。
永明中，为宜都王行参军。
天监初，为西中郎主簿、后军临川王记室。
七年，迁通直散骑侍郎，兼中书通事舍人。
十年，除通直散骑侍郎，兼尚书左丞，又兼中书舍人，迁国子博士、昭明太子侍读、西中郎豫章王长史，领丹阳尹丞，累迁通直散骑常侍、秘书监、司徒左长史。
普通六年，直东宫学士省。
大通三年卒，时年五十九。
萧几，字德玄，齐曲江公遥欣子也。
年十岁，能属文。
早孤，有弟九人，并皆稚小，几恩爱笃睦，闻于朝野。
性温和，与物无竞，清贫自立。
好学，善草隶书。
translation: 
Both brothers are good at writing five-character poems, so they are valued by the world.
Due to the war, his collected works have not been completely preserved.
Yin Yun was named Guanshu and was a native of Changping, County Chen.
He has a free and easy temperament, and does not stick to trivial matters, but he does not interact with others casually, and there are no idle guests in his home.
Yin Yun is determined to make progress, diligent and studious, and well-read.
When he was young, He Xian of Lujiang saw him and admired him very much.
During the Yongming Dynasty, Wang Xing of Yidu joined the army.
In the early years of Tianjian, he served as the chief secretary of Xizhonglang and the royal recorder of Houjun Linchuan.
In the seventh year of Yujian, he moved to Tongzhi Sanqi Shilang and Zhongshu Tongshisheren.
In the 10th year of Tianjian, he was appointed as the Minister of Tongzhi Sanqi, Zuocheng of Shangshu, and Sheren of Zhongshu. He was moved to the position of Doctor of Guozi, Minister of Prince Zhaoming, Changshi of Xizhonglang Yuzhang Wang, Lingqieyan Yincheng, and was promoted to Tongzhi Sanqi Changshi, Secretary Supervisor, and Situ Zuochangshi.
Ordinarily for six years, he served as the Bachelor of the East Palace.
After three years of mastership, he died at the age of fifty-nine.
Xiao Ji, also known as Dexuan, was the son of Duke Jiang Yaoxin of Qiqu.
He could write articles at the age of ten.
Xiao Ji lost his father very early and had nine younger brothers, all of whom were young. Lu Ji loved his younger brother very much. The brothers had a deep relationship and lived in harmony. Scholars in both the government and the public knew about his virtues.
He has a gentle temperament and does not fight with others. His family is poor, but he can work hard to be self-reliant.
He loves learning and is good at cursive script.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
湘州刺史杨公则，曲江之故吏也。
每见几，谓人曰： 康公此子，可谓桓灵宝出。
及公则卒，几为之诔，时年十五，沈约见而奇之，谓其舅蔡撙曰： 昨见贤甥杨平南诔文，不减希逸之作，始验康公积善之庆。
释褐著作佐郎、庐陵王文学、尚书殿中郎、太子舍人、掌管记，迁庶子、中书侍郎、尚书左丞。
末年，专尚释教。
为新安太守，郡多山水，特其所好，适性游履，遂为之记。
卒于官。
子为，字元专，亦有文才。仕至太子舍人，永康令。
史臣曰：王规之徒，俱著名誉，既逢休运，才用各展，美矣。
萧洽《当涂》之制，见伟辞人；刘孝仪兄弟，并以文章显。君子知梁代之有人焉。
translation: 
Lao Gongze, the governor of Yiye, was an old subordinate of Di Liaogong.
Every time he saw Xiao Ji, he would tell people: This son of Duke Qu Jiang can be said to be Huan Lingbin reborn.
When Yang Gongze passed away, Xiao Ji wrote an admonition for him. He was only fifteen years old at the time. Shen Yue read his article and praised it greatly. He said to Xiao Ji's uncle Cai Hu: Yesterday I saw your nephew's admonishment for Yang Gongze. It is no less than Xie Xiyi's article. It is the fulfillment of Qujiang Gong's good deeds and left a blessing.
Xiao Ji became an official and served as Zuo Lang, King of Luling Literature, Zhonglang of the Shangshu Palace, Prince Sheren, in charge of records. He moved to the position of Prince Zhongshuzi, Zhongshu Shilang, and Shangshu Zuocheng.
In his later years, he devoted himself to advocating Buddhism.
Xiao Ji served as the prefect of Xin'an, and the county had many strange mountains and rivers, which suited his hobbies. He traveled around according to his temperament, and then made notes about it.
He died in office.
Xiao Ji's son Xiao Wei, whose courtesy name was Yuan Zhuan, was also talented in literature. He became the crown prince and passed away his family to Yongkang.
Shi Chen said: "People like Wang Gui are all famous. When the opportunity comes, they each show their talents. What a beautiful thing!"
The "Dangtuyan Monument" written by Xiao Qiajiang was praised by literati, and Liu Xiaoyi and his brothers became famous for their articles. From this, a gentleman can know that there is talent for cutting!


