Chunk 0: 
original: 
魏相字弱翁，济阴定陶人也，徙平陵。
少学《易》，为郡卒史，举贤良，以对策高第，为茂陵令。
顷之，御史大夫桑弘羊客诈称御史止传，丞不以时谒，客怒缚丞。
相疑其有奸，收捕，案致其罪，论弃客市，茂陵大治。
后迁河南太守，禁止奸邪，豪强畏服。
会丞相车千秋死，先是千秋子为雒阳武库令，自见失父，而相治郡严，恐久获罪，乃自免去。
相使掾追呼之，遂不肯还。
相独恨曰： 大将军闻此令去官，必以为我用丞相死不能遇其子。
使当世贵人非我，殆矣！
武库令西至长安，大将军霍光果以责过相曰： 幼主新立，以为函谷京师之固，武库精兵所聚，故以丞相弟为关都尉，子为武库令。
今河南太守不深惟国家大策，苟见丞相不在而斥逐其子，何浅薄也！
后人有告相贼杀不辜，事下有司。
河南卒戍中都官者二三千人，遮大将军，自言愿复留作一年以赎太守罪。
河南老弱万余人守关欲入上书，关吏以闻。
大将军用武库令事，遂下相廷尉狱。
久系逾冬，会赦出。
复有诏守茂陵令，迁杨州刺史。
考案郡国守相，多所贬退。
相与丙吉相善，时吉为光禄大夫，与相书曰： 朝廷已深知弱翁治行，方且大用矣。
愿少慎事自重，臧器于身。
相心善其言，为霁威严。
居部二岁，征为谏大夫，复为河南太守。
translation: 
The Prime Minister of Wei, whose courtesy name is Wenweng, was born in Dingtao, Jiyin, and later moved to Pingling.
When Wei Xiang was young, he studied the Book of Changes and became the governor of the county. He was praised as a virtuous person. Because he ranked first in answering policy questions, he became the magistrate of Maoling County.
Soon, the guests of Censor Da Sang Hongyang came to Maoling and falsely claimed that Sang Hongyang was coming to the guest house.
The county magistrate did not go to see the guest on time, so he tied up the county magistrate. Prime Minister Wei suspected that the guest was causing trouble, arrested him, tortured him and learned about his crime, and sentenced the guest to be executed in the street. Therefore, Maoling is managed very well.
Later, the prime minister of Wei was promoted to the governor of Henan, where he prohibited bad people from doing evil things, and the local powerful were very afraid of him.
It happened that the prime minister Che Qianqiu died at the time. Che Qianqiu's son had been the commander of the Luoyang Armory. He saw that his father was dead, and the Wei Prime Minister was very strict in managing the affairs of the county. He was afraid that he would be blamed for it in the long run, so he resigned from the official position.
Prime Minister Wei sent Sasuke's own deputies to chase him and call him back, but he finally did not come back.
Prime Minister Wei himself sighed regretfully: When the general resigned after hearing this arsenal order, he would definitely think that I was disrespectful to his son because the prime minister was dead.
It will also make those powerful people in the world blame me. It’s dangerous!
When Che Qianqiu, the son of an arsenal commander, arrived in Chang'an, General Huo Guang scolded Prime Minister Wei for this: The young new emperor had just ascended the throne and believed that Hangu Pass was the strongest place to defend the capital and the weapons depot was a place where sophisticated weapons were stored, so he made the prime minister's brother the captain of Hangu Pass and the prime minister's son the commander of the weapons depot.
Now the governor of Henan, Wei Xiang, did not think deeply about the country's plans, but just dismissed the prime minister's son when he saw his death. How shallow is this!
Later, someone accused Prime Minister Wei of killing an innocent person, and the matter was brought to the competent government office.
There were two to three thousand officers from the Henan garrison who stopped the general Huo Guang and said they were willing to stay for another year to atone for the sin of the prefect Wei Xiang.
More than 10,000 old and weak people in Henan guarded Hangu Pass and asked to enter the pass to write to the emperor. The officials guarding the pass reported the matter.
General Huo Guang handed Wei Prime Minister to Tingwei for punishment because of the arsenal order.
Prime Minister Wei was imprisoned for a long time. After the winter, it happened that the imperial court pardoned the prisoners.
There was also an edict ordering Prime Minister Wei to serve as the magistrate of Maoling County again and promote him to the governor of Yangzhou.
Later, the imperial court inspected the ministers of the county and state, and many of them were demoted.
Prime Minister Wei and Bing Ji were close. At that time, Bing Ji's official position was Doctor Guanglu. He wrote to Prime Minister Wei and said: The imperial court has a deep understanding of your achievements and behavior and will appoint you.
I hope you will be cautious and self-respecting in everything you do and cultivate your talents.
Prime Minister Wei thought Bingji's words were right, so he restrained his dignity.
After serving as governor for two years, he was recruited as an admonishing official and then became the governor of Henan.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
数年，宣帝即位，征相入为大司农，迁御史大夫。
四岁，大将军霍光薨，上思其功德，以其子禹为右将军，兄子乐平侯山复领尚书事。
相因平恩侯许伯奏封事，言： 《春秋》讥世卿，恶宋三世为大夫，及鲁季孙之专权，皆危乱国家。
自后元以来，禄去王室，政繇冢宰。
今光死，子复为大将军，兄子秉枢机，昆弟诸婿据权势，在兵官。
光夫人显及诸女皆通籍长信宫，或夜诏门出入，骄奢放纵，恐浸不制。
宜有以损夺其权，破散阴谋，以固万世之基，全功臣之世。
又故事诸上书者皆为二封，署其一曰副，领尚书者先发副封，所言不善，屏去不奏。
相复因许伯白，去副封以防雍蔽。
宣帝善之，诏相给事中，皆从其议。
霍氏杀许后之谋始得上闻。
乃罢其三侯，令就第，亲属皆出补吏。
于是韦贤以老病免，相遂代为丞相，封高平侯，食邑八百户。
及霍氏怨相，又惮之，谋矫太后诏，先召斩丞相，然后废天子。
事发觉，伏诛。
宜帝始亲万机，厉精为治，练群臣，核名实，而相总领众职，甚称上意。
元康中，匈奴遣兵击汉屯田车师者，不能下。
上与后将军赵充国等议，欲因匈奴衰弱，出兵击其右地，使不敢复扰西域。
translation: 
A few years later, Emperor Xuan ascended the throne and recruited Wei Xiang to join the imperial court as chief minister of agriculture, and was later promoted to imperial censor.
Four years later, the general Huo Guang died. The emperor missed his merits and virtues and made his son Huo Yu the right general. Huo Guang's nephew Huoshan, the Hou of Leping, was in charge of the affairs of the Shangshu Province.
Prime Minister Wei wrote to the emperor through Ping'en Hou Xu Bo, saying: "Spring and Autumn" ridicules people who have been ministers for generations, hates that all the three generations of Song Dynasty were officials, and even Lu Jisun's autocratic rule has put the country in danger and chaos.
Since the first year of Emperor Wu's reign, the royal family's children could receive salaries, but the country's political affairs had to be decided by Tsukasa.
Now that Huo Guang is dead, his son has become a general again, his brother's son has become a minister and holds political positions, and his brothers and sons-in-law have military power and are very powerful.
Huo Guang's wife Xian and their female relatives are all registered in Changxin Palace and can come and go freely. Sometimes they go in and out through the forbidden gate at night. They are arrogant, extravagant, and uninhibited. I am afraid that they will gradually lose control in the future.
We should try to weaken their power and dispel their conspiracy, so as to strengthen the foundation of the Han Dynasty for generations and preserve the reputation of the hero Huo Guang.
In addition, according to past regulations, anyone who wrote a letter to the emperor must make two copies of the memorial, one of which was a copy. The official in charge of the affairs of the Shangshu Province would read the copy first. If the content of the memorial was inappropriate, it would be shelved and not reported to the emperor.
Prime Minister Wei used Uncle Xu to remove the copy to avoid being blocked by Huo's people.
Emperor Xuan read the memorial of Prime Minister Ding and Wei and thought it was very good. He issued an edict to confer Prime Minister Wei on the throne and fully adopted Prime Minister Wei's memorial.
Only then did the emperor find out about Huo's murder of Queen Mother Xu.
So Huo Yu, Huo Yun, and Huo Shan were deposed from their titles and ordered to return to their mansions. Their relatives were moved out to serve as officials.
At this time, Wei Xian was dismissed from the post of prime minister because of old age and illness. Wei Xian then became prime minister in Wei Xian's place, and was named Gaopinghou and granted food to 800 households in the city.
Later, the people of the Huo family resented Prime Minister Wei and were afraid of him. They planned to pretend that the Queen Mother had an edict, summon Prime Minister Wei to kill him, and then depose the emperor.
The matter was discovered and Huo's people were killed.
Only then did Emperor Xuan begin to personally handle the political affairs of the court, working hard to govern, selecting good ministers, and assessing their reputation. As prime minister, Wei Xiang was in charge of the affairs of various government offices, which was very popular with the emperor.
During the Yuankang period of Emperor Xuan, the Xiongnu sent troops to attack the Han army stationed in Cheshi, but they failed to capture it.
Emperor Xuan discussed with General Tang Chongguo and others, planning to take advantage of the Xiongnu's weakness to send troops to attack the area on their right, so that the Xiongnu would not dare to harass the western regions again.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
相上书谏曰：臣闻之，救乱诛暴，谓之义兵，兵义者王；敌加于己，不得已而起者，谓之应兵，兵应者胜；争恨小故，不忍愤怒者，谓之忿兵，兵忿者败；利人土地货宝者，谓之贪兵，兵贪者破；恃国家之大，矜民人之众，欲见威于敌者，谓之骄兵，兵骄者灭：此五者，非但人事，乃天道也。
间者匈奴尝有善意，所得汉民辄奉归之，未有犯于边境，虽争屯田车师，不足致意中。
今闻诸将军欲兴兵入其地，臣愚不知此兵何名者也。
今边郡困乏，父子共犬羊之裘，食草莱之实，常恐不能自存，难以动兵。 军旅之后，必有凶年 ，言民以其愁苦之气，伤阴阳之和也。
出兵虽胜，犹有后忧，恐灾害之变因此以生。今郡国守、相多不实选，风俗尤薄，水旱不时。
案今年计，子弟杀父兄、妻杀夫者，凡二百二十二人，臣愚以为此非小变也。
今左右不忧此，乃欲发兵报纤介之忿于远夷，殆孔子所谓 吾恐季孙之忧不在颛臾而在萧墙之内 也。
愿陛下与平昌侯、乐昌侯、平恩侯及有识者详议乃可。
上从相言而止。
相明《易经》，有师法，好观汉故事及便宜章奏，以为古今异制，方今务在奉行故事而已。
数条汉兴已来国家便宜行事，及贤臣贾谊、朝错、董仲舒等所言，奏请施行之，曰： 臣闻明主在上，贤辅在下，则君安虞而民和睦。
臣相幸得备位，不能奉明法，广教化，理四方，以宣圣德。
translation: 
Prime Minister Wei wrote a letter of remonstrance to the emperor: I have heard that those who save danger and put an end to violence are called righteous soldiers. The troops of benevolence and righteousness are invincible. When the enemy comes to attack you and you have no choice but to rise up and resist, you are called Ying soldiers. The army that resists the invasion will definitely win. Those who fight for victory in small things and cannot restrain their anger are called wrathful soldiers. An army that fights with anger will fail. Those whose land and treasures are profitable are called greedy soldiers, and the greedy army will definitely be defeated; those who rely on the country's large area and boast of its large population, and want to show their majesty to the enemy, are called arrogant soldiers, and the arrogant army will be destroyed: these five aspects are not only determined by personnel, but also by heaven.
Not long ago, the Xiongnu showed goodwill to us. The Han people they captured were always sent back well and did not violate our borders. Although this time they are fighting for our Cheshi City, don't take it too seriously.
Now I heard that the generals wanted to invade the Xiongnu territory. I don't know what the name of such an army should be.
Nowadays, the states and counties on the border are very poor. The father and his son wear a sheepskin jacket together and eat the fruits of fluffy grass. They often worry that they will not survive and will no longer be able to withstand the turmoil of war. After the war, there will definitely be a year of disaster. It means that people will have sorrow and resentment, which will destroy the peace between Yin and Yang.
Even if we send troops to win, there will still be troubles in the future. I am afraid that disasters and accidents will occur as a result. Nowadays, most of the prefects of prefectures and counties and the prime ministers of feudal countries are unworthy, their customs are shallow, and they are unpredictable.
After examining this year's statistics, there were 222 cases of sons killing their fathers, brothers killing their brothers, and wives killing their husbands. Yu Chen believed that this was no small incident.
Now the ministers around you are not worried about this, but they want to send troops to attack the remote ethnic minorities to avenge Xianjie's small vendetta. This is probably what Confucius said. I'm afraid Jisun's worry does not lie with Zhuanyu but within the palace wall.
I hope your majesty will discuss this matter carefully with the Marquis of Pingchang, Marquis of Lechang, Marquis of Ping'en and the far-sighted ministers.
Emperor Xuan followed the advice of Prime Minister Wei and did not send troops.
Prime Minister Wei is familiar with the "Book of Changes" and has authentic learning methods. He likes to watch the old events of the Han Dynasty and the memorials of ministers answering questions. He believes that the current system is different from the past, and now we just have to follow the past methods and systems.
Therefore, he repeatedly stated the proper way to deal with things since the founding of the Han Dynasty, as well as the words of the virtuous ministers Jia Yi, Chao Cuo, Dong Zhongshu and others, and asked the emperor to implement them, saying: I heard that there are sage monarchs above, and virtuous ministers below to assist Bi. Only in this way can the monarch be happy and worry-free, and the people be harmonious and happy.
I was fortunate enough to be the prime minister in the court, but I could not abide by the sage system of my ancestors, educate the people extensively, govern the world well, and demonstrate the emperor's sage and benevolence.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
民多背本趋末，或有饥寒之色，为陛下之忧，臣相罪当万死。臣相知能浅薄，不明国家大体，明用之宜，惟民终始，未得所由。
窃伏观先帝圣德仁恩之厚，勤劳天下，垂意黎庶，忧水旱之灾，为民贫穷发仓廪，赈乏餧；遣谏大夫博士巡行天下，察风俗，举贤良，平冤狱，冠盖交道；省诸用，宽租赋，弛山泽波池，禁秣马酤酒贮积，所以周急继困，慰安元元，便利百姓之道甚备。
臣相不能悉陈，昧死奏故事诏书凡二十三事。
臣谨案王法必本于农而务积聚，量入制用以备凶灾，亡六年之畜，尚谓之急。
元鼎三年，平原、勃海、太山、东郡溥被灾害，民饿死于道路。
二千石不豫虑其难，使至于此，赖明诏振救，乃得蒙更生。
今岁不登，谷暴腾踊，临秋收敛犹有乏者，至春恐甚，亡以相恤。
西羌未平，师旅在外，兵革相乘，臣窃寒心，宜早图其备。
唯陛下留神元元，帅繇先帝盛德以抚海内。
上施行其策。
又数表采《易阴阳》及《明堂月令》奏之，曰：
臣相幸得备员，奉职不修，不能宣广教化。
阴阳未和，灾害未息，咎在臣等。
臣闻《易》曰： 天地以顺动，故日月不过，四时不忒；圣王以顺动，故刑罚清而民服。 天地变化，必繇阴阳，阴阳之分，以日为纪。
日冬夏至，则八风之序立，万物之性成，各有常职，不得相干。
translation: 
As a result, many people among the people abandoned their roots in farming and went to work as merchants. Some people looked hungry and cold, which worried Your Majesty. I, Prime Minister Wei, deserve to die. I am not very intelligent and capable. I cannot clearly understand the country's affairs, propose appropriate methods at the moment, and think about people's motives and purposes for doing things. I cannot fully understand them.
Privately, I read the previous records with respect and learned how saintly, benevolent and benevolent the late emperor was. The former emperor worked hard to govern the world, cared about the people, worried about floods and droughts, opened warehouses and distributed relief grains to the poor and hungry people, sent admonishing doctors and doctors to patrol the world, observed the good and bad customs, recommended virtuous people, and redressed unjust cases. Officials who handled these matters came and went, and they were constantly on the road. Saving various expenses, reducing rent and taxes, opening up mountains, forests, lakes and lakes for people to fish and hunt, prohibiting the use of grain to feed horses, using grain to make wine, and private settlements: all of these are to help the needy people, appease the people, and provide convenient methods for the people.
Your Majesty, Prime Minister Wei, cannot express them one by one, so I will risk my life to report to you a total of twenty-three items in the late Emperor's edict to deal with old affairs.
The result of my examination of the methods of the former kings is that they must be based on agriculture, pay attention to the accumulation of grain, and live within their means to prepare for disaster years. The country does not have six years of accumulation. It's called a critical situation.
In the second year of Emperor Wu's reign, Pingyuan County, Bohai County, Taishan County, and Shu County were all hit by disasters, and the people starved to death on the way to escape famine.
Er Qianshi and other ministers could not have considered in advance that such a disaster would happen, which led to this situation. Fortunately, the emperor issued an edict and ordered relief, and the people found a way to survive.
The weather this year has been bad, and grain prices have soared. People who are still short of food and clothing during the autumn harvest season will probably be even worse in the spring, with not much food available for relief.
Xiqiang has not yet been pacified, and the army is still on expedition, with frequent wars. I am very worried and hope that the emperor will consider emergency measures as soon as possible.
I hope that your Majesty will care for the people and follow the story of the late emperor's benevolence to appease the people.
The emperor listened to Wei Xiang's advice and implemented it.
Prime Minister Wei repeatedly selected chapters from "Yi Yin Yang" and "Ming Tang Yue Ling" and presented them to the emperor, saying:
The minister Wei Xiang was lucky enough to be an official in the court, but he failed to fulfill his duties well and failed to educate the people extensively.
The qi of yin and yang cannot be reconciled, and disasters continue, and the fault lies with us ministers.
I heard it said in the Book of Changes: The heaven and earth move according to the laws of nature, so the sun and the moon do not pass each other, and there are no mistakes in the four seasons; a sage monarch acts according to the laws of things, so rewards and punishments are clear, and the people respect him.
With the four seasons of winter and summer, there is the order of the winds in all directions, and the characteristics of all things are formed. Each has its own fixed responsibilities and cannot infringe on each other.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
东方之神太昊，乘 震 执规司春；南方之神炎帝，乘 离 执衡司夏；西方之神少昊，乘 兑 ，执矩司秋；北方之神颛顼，乘 坎 执权司冬；中央之神黄帝，乘 坤 、 艮 执绳司下土。
兹五帝所司，各有时也。
东方之卦不可以治西方，南方之卦不可以治北方。
春兴 兑 治则饥，秋兴 震 治则华，冬兴 离 治则泄，夏兴 坎 治则雹。
明王谨于尊天，慎于养人，故立羲和之官以乘四时，节授民事。
君动静以道，奉顺阴阳，则日月光明，风雨时节，寒暑调和。
三者得叙，则灾害不生，五谷熟，丝麻遂，草木茂，鸟兽蕃，民不夭疾，衣食有余。
若是，则君尊民说，上下亡怨，政教不违，礼让可兴。
夫风雨不时，则伤农桑；农桑伤，则民饥寒；饥寒在身，则亡廉耻，寇贼奸宄所繇生也。
臣愚以为阴阳者，王事之本，群生之命，自古贤圣未有不繇者也。
天子之义，必纯取法天地，而观于先圣。
高皇帝所述书《天子所服第八》曰： 大谒者臣章受诏长乐宫，曰： 令群臣议天子所服，以安治天下。
相国臣何、御史大夫臣昌谨与将军臣陵、太子太傅臣通等议： 春夏秋冬天子所服，当法天地之数，中得人和。
故自天子王侯有土之君，下及兆民，能法天地，顺四时，以治国家，身亡祸殃，年寿永究，是奉宗庙安天下之大礼也。臣请法之。
中谒者赵尧举春，李舜举夏，皃汤举秋，贡禹举冬，四人各职一时。
translation: 
The god in the east is called Tai Wu, who drives "Zhen" and holds the rules to control spring; the god in the south is called Yandi, drives "Li" and holds a balance to control summer; the god in the west is called Shaowu, drives "Dui" and holds a moment to control autumn; the god in the north is called Zhuanxu, drives "Kan" and holds power to control winter; the central god is called Huangdi, drives "Kun" and "Gen" and holds ropes to control the earth.
Everything controlled by these five gods has its own season.
The gods sitting in the eastern hexagram position cannot rule the west, and the gods sitting in the southern hexagram position cannot rule the north.
When spring comes, if the God of Si Qiu in the position of "Dui" governs, there will be famine; when autumn comes, if the God of Si Chun in the position of "Zhen" governs, it will be gaudy; when winter comes, if the god of Si Xia in the position of "Li" governs, the air of heaven and earth will leak; in summer, if the god of Si Dong in the position of "Kan" governs, there will be hail.
A sage monarch carefully obeys the will of heaven and carefully cares for the people, so he allows officials with gentle nature and benevolence to take charge of the four seasons and tell people what to do according to the solar terms.
The monarch acts and rests according to the laws of heaven and obeys the harmony of yin and yang. Only in this way will the sun and moon shine, wind and rain will follow the seasonal solar terms, and the cold and heat will be even and moderate.
Only when these three things are done smoothly can natural disasters be avoided. Grains will be plentiful, silk and hemp will be mature, vegetation will be luxuriant, and birds and beasts will multiply. Only then will the people be free from disasters and diseases and have adequate food and clothing.
If this can be done, the king will be dignified, the people will be happy, superiors and subordinates will not blame each other, political education will be smooth, and courtesy and benevolence will flourish.
If wind and rain fall out of season, crops will be destroyed; if agriculture is destroyed, people will suffer from hunger and cold; if people suffer from hunger, they will show no regard for their integrity. This is the root cause of troubles caused by bandits and thieves.
The foolish minister believed that the Tao of Yin and Yang was the foundation of national affairs and the lifeblood of the people. Since ancient times, all wise men and gentlemen have followed it.
When an emperor governs the world, the most important thing is to conscientiously abide by the laws of nature and learn from the experiences of the sages and sages.
The "Eighth Submission of the Emperor", which records the words and deeds of Emperor Gao, says: The great emissary, Chen Xiangzhang, received the edict in Changle Palace. Emperor Gao said: He ordered the ministers to discuss what kind of clothes the emperor should wear to stabilize and govern the world.
Prime Minister Xiao He, imperial censor Zhou Chang, General Wang Ling, Prince Tai Fu Shu Sun Tong and other ministers discussed and said: The clothes the emperor should wear in spring, summer, autumn and winter should imitate the etiquette of heaven and earth, which embodies the harmony of entrance and exit.
Therefore, from the emperor, the princes and the monarchs with fiefdoms, down to the hundreds of millions of people, if they can imitate the heaven and earth, comply with the changes of the four seasons, and govern the country, they will avoid disasters and live long. This is an important ritual system for supporting the ancestral temple and stabilizing the world. I ask the emperor to imitate it.
Zhao Yao, the visitor, was in charge of the emperor's spring activities, Li Shun was in charge of summer, Er Tang was in charge of autumn, Gong Yu was in charge of winter, and each of the four was in charge of a season.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
大谒者襄章奏，制曰： 可。
孝文皇帝时，以二月施恩惠于天下，赐孝弟力田及罢军卒，祠死事者，颇非时节。
御史大夫朝错时为太子家令，奏言其状。
臣相伏念陛下恩泽甚厚，然而灾气未息，窃恐诏令有未合当时者也。
愿陛下选明经通知阴阳者四人，各主一时，时至明言所职，以和阴阳，天下幸甚！
相数陈便宜，上纳用焉。
相敕掾史案事郡国及休告从家还至府，辄白四方异闻，或有逆贼风雨灾变，郡不上，相辄奏言之。
时，丙吉为御史大夫，同心辅政，上皆重之。
相为人严毅，不如吉宽。
视事九岁，神爵三年薨，谥曰宪侯。
子弘嗣，甘露中有罪削爵为关内侯。
丙吉字少卿，鲁国人也。
治律令，为鲁狱史。
积功劳，稍迁至廷尉右监。
坐法失官，归为州从事。
武帝末，巫蛊事起，吉以故廷尉监征，诏治巫蛊郡邸狱。
时，宣帝生数月，以皇曾孙坐卫太子事系，吉见而怜之。
又心知太子无事实，重哀曾孙无辜，吉择谨厚女徒，令保养曾孙，置闲燥处。
吉治巫蛊事，连岁不决。
后元二年，武帝疾，往来长杨、五柞宫，望气者言长安狱中有天子气，于是上遣使者分条中都官诏狱系者，亡轻重一切皆杀之。
translation: 
The great visitor Xiangzhang asked the emperor, and Emperor Gao issued an edict saying: "Yes."
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, he extended favors to the world in February, rewarding filial people, those who worked hard in the fields, and tired and sick soldiers, and offering sacrifices to those who died for the country. The time for doing these things was very inconsistent with the season.
Chao Cuo, the imperial censor, was the prince's family order at that time and wrote a letter to Emperor Xiaowen explaining this.
Your Majesty, Prime Minister Wei, I respectfully consider that your majesty has shown great kindness to the people, but the disasters have not stopped. I privately think that your edict may be out of season.
I hope that your majesty will select four ministers who understand the meaning of the scriptures and are familiar with the Tao of Yin and Yang. They will be in charge of the affairs of a season. When the season comes, they will clearly report the government affairs that the emperor in charge should do to comply with the Tao of Yin and Yang. That will be a great blessing for the people of the world!
Prime Minister Wei wrote many times stating what should be done, and the emperor adopted and implemented his suggestions.
The Prime Minister of Wei ordered his commissioners to inspect the affairs of various counties and states, and when he returned to the government from home, he would report strange things. Sometimes there would be rebel bandits or natural disasters, but the county guards would not report them, so the Prime Minister of Wei would always report the situation to the emperor.
At that time, Bingji was the imperial censor, and he and Wei Tong were committed to assisting the emperor. The emperor valued them very much.
Prime Minister Wei has a severe and resolute temperament, not as tolerant as Bingji.
Wei Xiang was in power for nine years, Shenjue died in three years, and Mi was named Xianhou.
Wei Hong, the son of Prime Minister Wei, inherited the title. In the middle of Ganlu's reign, he was demoted to the title of Marquis of Guannei due to a crime.
Bingji, courtesy name Shaoqing, was from the state of Lu.
He studied the laws and regulations and made the prison history of the state of Lu.
Bingji accumulated merit and was gradually promoted to the right prisoner of Tingwei.
Later, he lost his official position due to breaking the law and returned to work in the state.
In the last years of Emperor Wu's reign, a case of witchcraft and poison occurred. Bingji was recruited to the capital as a former imperial prisoner. Emperor Wu ordered Bingji to go to the county prison to investigate the case of witchcraft.
At that time, Emperor Xuan Liu Xun was just a few months old and was imprisoned because he was the grandson of Prince Wei. Bingji felt pitiful after seeing this.
Xinbao knew that there was no real truth about Prince Wei's crime, so he was even more sad that the emperor's great-grandson was innocently imprisoned. So Bingji selected a few cautious and kind female prisoners, ordered them to protect and raise the emperor's great-grandson, and asked them to live in a spacious and dry place with the emperor's great-grandson.
Bingji pursued the case of witchcraft, but there was no verdict for several years.
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Wu fell ill and traveled between the Changyang and Wuzha palaces. The observers said that there was an emperor's spirit in Chang'an Prison, so Emperor Mowu sent envoys to record the prisoners in Guanshao Prison in Zhongdu one by one, and killed them regardless of the severity of their crimes.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
内谒者令郭穰夜到郡邸狱，吉闭门拒使者不纳，曰： 皇曾孙在。
他人亡辜死者犹不可，况亲曾孙乎！
相守至天明不得入，穰还以闻，因劾奏吉。武帝亦寤，曰： 天使之也。
因赦天下。郡邸狱系者独赖吉得生，恩及四海矣。
曾孙病，几不全者数焉，吉数敕保养乳母加致医药，视遇甚有恩惠，以私财物给其衣食。
后吉为车骑将军军市令，迁大将军长史，霍光甚重之，入为光禄大夫给事中。
昭帝崩，无嗣，大将军光遣吉迎昌邑王贺。
贺即位，以行淫乱废，光与车骑将军张安世诸大臣议所立，未定。
吉奏记光曰： 将军事孝武皇帝，受襁褓之属，任天下之寄，孝昭皇帝早崩亡嗣，海内忧惧，欲亟闻嗣主，发丧之日以大谊立后，所立非其人，复以大谊废之，天下莫不服焉。
方今社稷宗庙群生之命在将军之一举。
窃伏听于众庶，察其所言，诸侯宗室在位列者，未有所闻于民间也。
而遗诏所养武帝曾孙名病已在掖庭外家者，吉前使居郡邸时见其幼少，至今十八九矣，通经术，有美材，行安而节和。
愿将军详大议，参以蓍龟，岂宜褒显，先使入侍，令天下昭然知之，然后决定大策，天下幸甚！
光览其议，遂尊立皇曾孙，遣宗正刘德与吉迎曾孙于掖庭。
宣帝初即位，赐吉爵关内侯。
吉为人深厚，不伐善。
自曾孙遭遇，吉绝口不道前恩，故朝廷莫能明其功也。
地节三年，立皇太子，吉为太子太傅，数月，迁御史大夫。
及霍氏诛，上躬亲政，省尚书事。
是时，掖庭宫婢则令民夫上书，自陈尝有阿保之功。
章下掖庭令考问，则辞引使者丙吉知状。
掖庭令将则诣御史府以视吉。
吉识，谓则曰： 汝尝坐养皇曾孙不谨督笞，汝安得有功？
独渭城胡组、淮阳郭徵卿有恩耳。
分别奏组等共养劳苦状。
诏吉求组、征卿，已死，有子孙，皆受厚赏。
诏免则为庶人，赐钱十万。
上亲见问，然后知吉有旧恩，而终不言。
上大贤之，制诏丞相： 朕微眇时，御史大夫吉与朕有旧恩，厥德茂焉。
translation: 
The visitor ordered Guo Zhen to rush to the county prison overnight, but Bingji closed the door tightly and refused to let the envoy in. He said, "The emperor's great-grandson is here."
No one else is allowed to be killed without guilt, and besides, he is the emperor’s great-grandson!
After being guarded until dawn and not allowed to enter, Guo Chen had no choice but to go back and report to Emperor Mowu, and took the opportunity to impeach Bingji.
At this time, Emperor Wu also understood that this was wrong, so he said: This is what God ordered to do.
So the whole world was granted amnesty. The prisoners in the county jail were able to survive only because of Bingji, and they were favored all over the world. Later, the emperor's great-grandson fell ill and faced death many times. Bingji repeatedly ordered the wet nurse who took care of the emperor's grandson to seek medical treatment. He treated the emperor's grandson very kindly, gave him his belongings, and provided him with food and clothing.
Later, Bingji became the general of chariots and cavalry, and was promoted to the rank of general and commander of history. Huo Guang valued him very much, and he entered the court and became the doctor of Guanglu.
After the death of Emperor Zhao, there was no heir, so the general Huo Guang sent Bingji to welcome Liu He, the king of Changyi.
After Liu He became emperor, he was deposed for his lewdness. Huo Guang discussed with the chariot general Zhang Anshi and other ministers who should be emperor, but they have not yet decided.
Bingji wrote to Huo Guang: General, you serve Emperor Xiaowu and are entrusted with the responsibility of the whole world. Emperor Xiaozhao died early and had no heir. Everyone in the world is worried and afraid, and they all want to know who will be the successor emperor quickly. On the day of the funeral, Liu He was made heir because of Gu Dayi, who had people serving in the ancestral temple of the Han Dynasty. The man who was appointed emperor failed to live up to expectations, and he was deposed because of Gu Dayi. Everyone in the world was unfaithful.
Now the fate of the country and the safety of the people depend on the general's hands.
I privately interviewed people's discussions and scrutinized what they said. I learned that the clan princes who are now officials have little reputation among the people.
The great-grandson of the sick Emperor Wu, who was supported in accordance with the imperial edict, is still living in the common people's homes outside the palace. I used to let him live in the county official residence when I saw him as a young man. Now he is eighteen or nineteen years old. He is proficient in the classics and has high talents. He behaves calmly and has a peaceful manner.
I hope the general will discuss this matter carefully and refer to the results of divination. If it is not convenient to make him noble, he can be allowed to enter the palace to serve the empress dowager first, so that the people of the world will clearly know his benefits, and then make important decisions. The people of the world will be very lucky and grateful!
Huo Guang read Bingji's memorial, so he respected the emperor's great-grandson Liu Xun, and sent Zongzheng Liu De and Bingji to welcome Liu Xun in Yeting, where the concubines lived.
When Liu Xungang became emperor, he granted Bingji the title of Marquis of Guannei.
Bingji is a generous person and doesn't like to show off the good deeds he has done.
Since Liu Xun became emperor, Bingji never mentioned that he had rescued Liu Xun before and was kind to him, so no one in the court knew about his contribution.
In the third year of Dijie, Emperor Xuan Liu Xun established the crown prince, and Bingji became the crown prince and tutor. A few months later, he was promoted to the imperial censor.
After Huo was punished for committing a crime, the emperor personally handled government affairs, eliminating the need for the minister to read the memorial first.
At that time, a maid named Ze who served the concubines in Ye Ting asked her former civilian husband to write to the emperor, claiming that she had protected Liu Xun.
The emperor sent the memorial to Ye Tingling and asked him to investigate and inquire about the matter. The palace maid named Ze said in her confession that the former envoy Bingji knew what was going on.
Ye Tingling then took the maid to the Yushi doctor's house to let Bingji see if it was true.
Bingji knew the maidservant and said to her: You were once punished for being whipped for being careless in raising the great-grandson of the emperor. How can you be said to have merit?
Only Hu Zu of Weicheng and Guo Zhengqing of Huaiyang had credit.
Bingji then wrote to the emperor separately and told how hard it was for Hu Zu and others to support the emperor in the past.
Emperor Shao ordered Bingji to search for Hu Zu and Guo Zhengqing. Both of them were dead, but only their descendants were still alive, and they were all heavily rewarded.
The imperial edict pardoned a maid named Ze as a commoner and rewarded her with one hundred thousand yuan.
The emperor personally inquired about the matter, and then found out that Bingji had been kind to him in the past, but had never said anything about it.
The emperor was very grateful and thought that Bingji was really a great sage. He wrote an edict to Prime Minister Wei, saying: Before I was a nobleman, Bingji, the imperial censor, was kind to me. His virtues are so beautiful.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
《诗》不云乎？ 亡德不报 。
其封吉为博阳侯，邑千三百户。
临当封，吉疾病，上将使人加绅而封之，及其生存也。上忧吉疾不起，太子太傅夏侯胜曰： 此未死也。
臣闻有阴德者，必飨其乐以及子孙。
今吉未获报而疾甚，非其死疾也。
后病果愈。
吉上书固辞，自陈不宜以空名受赏。
上报曰： 朕之封君，非空名也，而君上书归侯印，是显朕不德也。
方今天下少事，君其专精神，省思虑，近医药，以自持。
后五岁，代魏相为丞相。
吉本起狱法小吏，后学《诗》、《礼》，皆通大义。
及居相位，上宽大，好礼让。
掾史有罪臧，不称职，辄予长休告，终无所案验。
客或谓吉曰： 君侯为汉相，奸吏成其私，然无所惩艾。
吉曰： 夫以三公之府有案吏之名，吾窃陋焉。
后人代吉，因以为故事，公府不案吏，自吉始。
于官属掾史，务掩过扬善。
吉驭吏耆酒，数逋荡，尝从吉出，醉呕丞相车上。
西曹主吏白欲斥之，吉曰： 以醉饱之失去士，使此人将复何所容？
西曹地忍之，此不过污丞相车茵耳。
遂不去也。
此驭吏边郡人，习知边塞发奔命警备事，尝出，适见驿骑持赤白囊，边郡发奔命书驰来至。
translation: 
Isn’t it said in the Book of Songs? There is nothing virtuous to me that will not be repaid.
I have granted Bingji the title of Marquis of Boyang, with a settlement of 1,300 households.
When it was time to be granted the title, west Xuan fell ill. The emperor was afraid that Xi Li would die and could not be granted the title, so he wanted to rush to the time when Xi Ji was still alive and send someone with the seal to grant him the title. The emperor was worried that Bingji's illness would not recover, so Xiahou Sheng, the crown prince and Taifu, told the emperor: He will not die.
I heard that people who accumulate yin virtue will definitely enjoy the joy brought by that yin virtue, which will also be extended to their descendants.
Now that Room C's kindness has not been repaid, he is so sick that it is not a fatal disease.
Later, Bingji's illness was indeed cured.
Binggu wrote to the emperor and firmly refused, saying that he should not receive rewards and titles based on this empty name.
The emperor wrote back and said: I don't make you a marquis in an empty name, but if you write a letter and send it back to the marquis, it will show that I have no virtue and no righteousness, and I know that I will not repay my kindness.
There is nothing chaotic in the world now. I hope you can concentrate, think less about things, pay more attention to medicine, and take good care of yourself.
Five years later, Bingji replaced Wei Xiang as prime minister.
Bingji was born as a minor official in charge of prison cases. He later studied the Book of Songs and the Rites and understood their great meaning.
After he became the prime minister, he advocated magnanimity and courtesy to others.
When there were criminal cases or incompetence among the officials, Bingji always gave them long vacations and asked them to resign voluntarily. There was never any investigation.
Some guests said to Xitong: "You became the prime minister of Lian Dynasty and were very generous. However, the treacherous officials took advantage of the opportunity to seek personal gain and did bad things, but you did not punish them."
Bingji said: "I feel so embarrassed that I, the duke, have a great power, but I go to investigate and deal with the minor officials."
Later, the people who replaced Bingji regarded this as a routine. If the Duke's mansion did not investigate and deal with minor officials, they would start with Bingji.
When dealing with his own officials and businessmen, Bingji always covers up for them and promotes good deeds.
There was a driving official in Xixuan who loved to drink and neglected his duties many times. Once when he went out with Bingji, he vomited in the prime minister's car because he was drunk.
The chief official of Xicao told Bingji that he wanted to drive away this official. Bingji said: "If you drive him away just because of his fault of being drunk and vomiting in the prime minister's car, how will this person live in the world in the future?"
Just be patient and let him go. This is just soiling the mat on my car.
In the end, I didn't drive him away.
This official is from the border county and is familiar with border fortress alarm and security matters. Once when I went out, I happened to see Yiqi holding a red and white letter bag. It was a letter from the border county reporting the enemy's invasion.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
驭吏因随驿骑至公车刺取，知虏入云中、代郡，遽归府见吉白状，因曰： 恐虏所入边郡，二千石长吏有老病不任兵马者，宜可豫视。
吉善其言，召东曹案边长吏，琐科条其人。
未已，诏召丞相、御史，问以虏所入郡吏，吉具对。
御史大夫卒遽不能详知，以得谴让。
而吉见谓忧边思职，驭吏力也。
吉乃叹曰： 士亡不可容，能各有所长。
向使丞相不先闻驭吏言，何见劳勉之有？
掾史繇是益贤吉。
吉又尝出，逢清道群斗者，死伤横道，吉过之不问，掾史独怪之。
吉前行，逢人逐牛，牛喘吐舌，吉止驻，使骑吏问： 逐牛行几里矣？
掾史独谓丞相前后失问，或以讥吉，吉曰： 民斗相杀伤，长安令、京兆尹职所当禁备逐捕，岁竟丞相课其殿最，奏行赏罚而已。
宰相不亲小事，非所当于道路问也。
方春少阳用事，未可大热，恐牛近行，用暑故喘，此时气失节，恐有所伤害也。
三公典调和阴阳，职当忧，是以问之。
掾史乃服，以吉知大体。
五凤三年春，吉病笃。
上自临问吉，曰： 君即有不讳，谁可以自代者？
吉辞谢曰： 群臣行能，明主所知，愚臣无所能识。
上固问，吉顿首曰： 西河太守杜延年明于法度，晓国家故事，前为九卿十余年，今在郡治有能名。
廷尉于定国执宪详平，天下自以不冤。
translation: 
The official followed the post rider to the bus to inquire about the news, and learned that the enemy had invaded Yunzhong County and Dai County. He immediately rushed back to the Prime Minister's Mansion to report the situation to Bingji, and suggested: I am afraid that in the border counties invaded by the Hulu, some of the officials with two thousand stones are old and sick and cannot withstand the war, so they should investigate in advance.
Bingji thought what he said made sense, so he asked Shu Cao to visit the officials in the border counties and record their life experiences and other situations in detail.
Before this matter was finished, the emperor went down to Shao to summon the prime minister and censor, and asked the officials of the border counties invaded by the Hulu. Bingji gave detailed answers.
The imperial censor was in a hurry but could not answer quickly, so he was scolded by the emperor.
Therefore, Bingji was regarded by the emperor as a good prime minister who was worried about border defense, fulfilled his duties, and was very effective in managing his subordinate officials.
Bingji then sighed: "There is no intolerable person among scholars. They all have their own talents."
How could I have been praised for my hard work if I had not heard the advice of the governor first?
When the ministers heard this, they admired Bingji even more.
Bingji once went out and encountered a fight between people cleaning the road. There were many dead and injured people lying on the road. Bingji passed by but ignored him. The minister next to him felt strange.
Bingji and others walked forward again and met someone driving a cow. The cow was panting and sticking out its tongue. Bing Ji stopped the car and asked the horseman to ask: "How many miles have you driven the cattle?"
The minister was very surprised that the prime minister did not ask about things that should be asked, but asked about things that should not be asked. Some even ridiculed Bingji. Bingji explained: The people fought with each other and killed and injured people. This is something that should be prohibited by the Chang'an Order and Jing Zhaoyin. At the end of the year, I will be the prime minister to inspect their political achievements and merits, report the situation to the emperor, and give rewards and punishments.
If the prime minister does not handle small matters personally, he should not ask questions on the road.
It is the spring season, Shaoyang adheres to the climate of heaven and earth, and there should be no very hot weather. I am afraid that the cow being chased cannot go far because it is panting and spitting out its tongue because it is too hot. As a result, the seasonal solar terms are out of balance, and there may be great disasters.
As the prime minister of the Three Lords, I should be worried about the important matter of balancing yin and yang, so I asked about Niu Chuan.
The ministers all admired him and thought that Bingji was a person who knew the general situation.
In the spring of the third year of Wufeng's reign, Bingji's illness became serious.
The emperor personally went to the bedside to greet Bingji and said: If you unfortunately die, who can take your place?
Bingji thanked him and said: You, the wise monarch, know best the behavioral talents of the ministers, but I don't know much about the foolish ministers.
The emperor insisted on asking, but Bingji had no choice but to pause and say: Du Yannian, the governor of Xihe, knows the law well and knows the country's old practices. He used to be an official of the Nine Ministers for more than ten years. Now he has made great achievements in Xihe County and has a good reputation.
Ting Wei enforces the law fairly in Dingguo, and everyone in the world who is judged by him feels that they are not unjust.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
太仆陈万年事后母孝，惇厚备于行止。
此三人能皆在臣右，唯上察之。
上以吉言皆是而许焉。
及吉薨，御史大夫黄霸为丞相，征西河太守杜延年为御史大夫，会其年老，乞骸骨。病免。
以廷尉于定国代为御史大夫。
黄霸薨，而定国为丞相，太仆陈万年代定国为御史大夫，居位皆称职，上称吉为知人。
吉薨，谥曰定侯。
子显嗣，甘露中有罪削爵为关内侯，官至卫尉、太仆。
始显少为诸曹，尝从祠高庙，至夕牲日，乃使出取斋衣。
丞相吉大怒，谓其夫人曰： 宗庙至重，而显不敬慎，亡吾爵者必显也。
夫人为言，然后乃已。
吉中子禹为水衡都尉，少子高为中垒校尉。
元帝时，长安士伍尊上书言： 臣少时为郡邸小吏，窃见孝宣皇帝以皇曾孙在郡邸狱。
是时，治狱使者丙吉见皇曾孙遭离无辜，吉仁心感动，涕泣凄恻，选择复作胡组养视皇孙，吉常从。
臣尊日再侍卧庭上。
后遭条狱之召，吉扞拒大难，不避严刑峻法。
既遭大赦，吉谓守丞谁知，皇孙不当在官，使谁如移书京兆尹，遣与胡组俱送京兆尹，不受，复还。
及组日满当去，皇孙思慕，吉以私钱顾组，令留与郭徽卿并养数月，乃遣组去。
后少内啬夫白吉曰： 食皇孙亡诏令 。
时，吉得食米肉，月月以给皇孙。
吉即时病，辄使臣尊朝夕请问皇孙，视省席蓐燥湿。
候伺组、徽卿，不得令晨夜去皇孙敖荡，数奏甘毳食物。
所以拥全神灵，成育圣躬，功德已无量矣。
时岂豫知天下之福，而徼其报哉！
translation: 
The servant Chen Wannian served his stepmother very filially and was fair and kind in everything he did.
These three people are all more talented than me. I hope the emperor will pay attention and investigate.
The emperor thought Bingji's words were correct and agreed.
After Bingji's death, the imperial censor Huang Ba became the prime minister and recruited Du Yannian, the prefect of Xihe County, to join the court as the censor. It happened that Du Yannian resigned due to old age and was relieved of his official position due to illness.
Ting Wei Yu Dingguo was appointed to replace Du Yannian as the imperial censor.
Later, Huang Ba died and Yu Dingguo became the prime minister. He appointed the servant Chen Wannian to replace Yu Dingguo as the imperial censor. These people were all very qualified, and the emperor believed that Bingji was knowledgeable and knowledgeable.
After Bingji's death, Mi was given the title of Dinghou.
His son Bingxian inherited the title. During the Ganlu period, he was demoted to the title of Marquis of Guannei due to crimes, and his official position was as high as the Taipu of Weiwei.
When Bingxian was young, he was a small official in the government. He followed the emperor to the high temple to offer sacrifices. On the day of sacrifice, he sent someone out to get fasting clothes.
Prime Minister Bingji was furious and said to his wife: The ancestral temple is the most solemn place in the country, but Bingxian showed disrespect and carelessness. It will definitely be Bingxian who loses my title in the future.
Mrs. Bingji said a lot of good things for her son before she spared Bingxian.
Bingji's second son Bingyu served as the captain of Shuiheng, and his youngest son Binggao served as the captain of the middle base.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, a soldier named Zun from Chang'an wrote to the emperor, saying: My lord, when I was young, I was a minor official in the county, and I saw Emperor Xiaoxuan imprisoned in the county prison as the emperor's great-grandson.
Bingji, the envoy who investigated the case for the emperor at that time, was not only deeply moved by his benevolence but also very sad when he saw the emperor's great-grandson innocently suffering. So the female prisoner Hu was selected to raise the emperor's grandson, and Bingji often took care of him together.
Your Majesty, I served the emperor's grandson many times in the county court.
Later, when faced with an order to kill all the prisoners who entered the prison, Bingji refused to open the door, resisted the catastrophe, and did not avoid severe punishments, finally saving the emperor's grandson.
Later, during the amnesty, Bingji told the prime minister who ordered that the emperor's grandson should no longer be imprisoned in the official prison, and asked him to write a letter to Jing Zhaoyin in the form of an official document. At the same time, he sent the emperor's grandson and Hu Zu to Jing Zhaoyin's package. Jing Zhaoyin did not accept it and sent it back.
When Hu Zu's employment was full, it was time to go home. The emperor's grandson was reluctant to leave because she had been with her for a long time, so Bingji used his own money to hire Hu Zu and asked her to stay and raise the emperor's grandson with Guo Zhengqing for a few months before letting her go home.
Later, the official Shao Nei Shifu who was in charge of the Yeting Prefecture said to Bingji: I want to provide superior supplies to the emperor's grandson, but there is no edict, tide can find a way.
At that time, Bingji could eat rice and meat, so he used his monthly salary to provide for the emperor and his grandson.
Bingji was sometimes ill, and would always ask me to check on the emperor and grandson regardless of morning or evening, and check whether the bedding was wet or dry.
He also often warned Hu Zu and Guo Zhengqing not to leave the emperor and grandson early or late to play, and offered delicious and crispy food to the emperor and grandson many times.
Therefore, it ensured that Emperor Xiaoxuan was in a happy spirit and grew up healthily, which can be said to be a great merit.
At that time, how could Bingji have expected that his grandson would become emperor?


Chunk 10: 
original: 
诚其仁恩内结于心也。
虽介之推割肌以存君，不足以比。
教宣皇帝时，臣上书言状，幸得下吉，吉谦让不敢自伐，删去臣辞，专归美于组、徽卿。组、徽卿皆以受田宅赐钱，吉封为博阳侯，臣尊不得比组、徽卿。
臣年老居贫，死在旦暮，欲终不言，恐使有功不著。
吉子显坐微文夺爵为关内侯，臣愚以为宜复其爵邑，以报先入功德。
先是，显为太仆十余年，与官属大为奸利，臧千余万，司隶校尉昌案劾，罪至不道，奏请逮捕。
上曰： 故丞相吉有旧恩，朕不忍绝。
免显官，夺邑四百户。
后复以为城门校尉。
显卒，子昌嗣爵关内侯。
成帝时，修废功，以吉旧恩尤重，鸿嘉元年制诏丞相御史： 盖闻褒功德，继绝统，所以重宗庙，广贤圣之路也。
故博阳侯吉以旧恩有功而封，今其祀绝，朕甚怜之。
夫善善及子孙，古今之通谊也，其封吉孙中郎将、关内侯昌为博阳侯，奉吉后。
国绝三十二岁复续云。
昌传子至孙，王莽时乃绝。
赞曰：古之制名，必繇象类，远取诸物，近取诸身。
故经谓君为元首，臣为股肱，明其一体，相待而成也。
是故君臣相配，古今常道，自然之势也。
近观汉相，高祖开基，萧、曹为冠，孝宣中兴，丙、魏有声。
是时，黜陟有序，众职修理，公卿多称其位，海内兴于礼让。
览其行事，岂虚乎哉！
translation: 
How can I think of seeking retribution for my merits in the future?
In fact, it is a natural manifestation of his honest heart, benevolence and kindness.
Even Jie Zitui's behavior of cutting his own flesh for the monarch to eat in order to keep the monarch alive cannot be compared with this. When Emperor Xiaoxuan was there, I wrote a letter explaining the situation at that time. Fortunately, the letter was delivered to Bingji. Bingji was very modest and did not show off to himself. He deleted the words about him in my letter and attributed all the benefits to Hu Zu and Guo Zhengqing. Hu Zu and Guo Zhengqing were rewarded with houses and money, and Bingji was named Boyang Marquis. I cannot be compared with Hu Zu or Guo Zhengqing.
I am old, living in poverty, and I don’t know when I will die. I want to keep it secret, but I am afraid that I will bury it in the name of someone who has no merit.
Bingji's son Bingxian was deprived of his title for committing a minor crime and was made Marquis of Guannei. The minister foolishly believed that his original title and fiefdom should be restored in order to repay his father's merits.
Before that, Bingxian had been a servant for more than ten years. He and his subordinates committed bad crimes, exploited gold and silver, and hid tens of millions in money at home. Weichang, the commander of the Sili School, impeached Bingxian. The crime was considered to be treason, and he petitioned the emperor to arrest him.
Emperor Yuan said: The late Prime Minister Bingji had an old debt to Emperor Xiaoxuan, and I could not bear to kill his son.
So he only removed Bingxian from his official position and cut off 400 households in the city.
Later, he was made the city gate captain.
After Bingxian's death, his son Bingchang assumed the title of Marquis of Guannei.
When the Emperor of the Han Dynasty became emperor, he rebuilt the abandoned achievements. Because Bingji had been particularly benevolent to the Han Dynasty in the past, so in the first year of Emperor Hongjia's reign, he sent a letter to the prime minister and the imperial censor in Shao, saying: I heard that praising meritorious and virtuous people and restoring the successors to the heroes who have no descendants is a good way to respect the ancestral temple, the country, and open the way to sages.
The late Boyang Hou Bingji was named a marquis because of his kindness to the late emperor. Now his descendants have become extinct. I feel very pitiful.
It is a common principle in ancient times that the most kind and beautiful behavior will be extended to descendants. I conferred Bingji’s grandson Zhonglang General Guannei Marquis Bingchang as Boyang Marquis to enshrine Bingji’s descendants.
Bingji's feudal state was continued thirty-two years later.
Bingchang passed the title to his sons and grandsons, and it was not until Wang Mang usurped the Han Dynasty that it was extinct.
Zan said: When the ancients made names, they must start from symbolizing similar things, looking for distant things from things, and looking for near things from themselves.
Therefore, the scriptures say that the king is likened to the human mind, and the ministers are like the legs and arms of a human being, indicating that the king and the ministers are likened to the entire human body, and they complement each other.
Therefore, it is a common practice throughout the ages for monarchs and ministers to assist each other. It is natural and inevitable.
Looking at the prime ministers of the Han Dynasty recently, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty established the foundation, Xiao He and Cao Shen were the top ministers, Emperor Xiaoxuan was the master of Zhongxing, and Prime Ministers Bingji and Wei also had good reputations.
At that time, officials were promoted and demoted in a reasonable manner, their responsibilities were clear, most ministers were competent and competent, and people at home treated each other with courtesy.
Observing their behavior and deeds, is it just a false name?


