Chunk 0: 
original: 
孔子曰： 道之以政，齐之以刑，民免而无耻。道之以德，齐之以礼，有耻且格。
老氏称： 上德不德，是以有德；下德不失德，是以无德。
法令滋章，盗贼多有。 太史公曰：信哉是言也！
法令者治之具，而非制治清浊之源也。
昔天下之网尝密矣，然奸伪萌起，其极也，上下相遁，至於不振。
当是之时，吏治若救火扬沸，非武健严酷，恶能胜其任而愉快乎！
言道德者，溺其职矣。
故曰 听讼，吾犹人也，必也使无讼乎 。 下士闻道大笑之 。
非虚言也。
translation: 
Confucius said: Use political laws to guide the people, and use punishments to restrain the people. The people can avoid committing crimes, but they will have no shame.
If you use morality to guide the people and use etiquette to restrain the people, then the people will feel ashamed and change their ways.
Laozi said: People with high morals do not show formal virtue, so they have virtue; people with low morals stick to formal virtue, so they have no actual virtue.  The more stringent the laws, the more thieves there are.
Tai Shigong said: These words are credible! Han Ling is a tool of politics, not the source of political turmoil.
In the past, the legal net in the world was very tight, but evil and deceitful things began to occur. When the situation reached its most serious state, officials and people actually deceived each other, reaching the point where the country was in ruins.
At this time, the management of government affairs by officials is like putting out fires with salary and quelling the boiling water. How can they be competent and happy without strong and powerful people and strict laws and regulations?
If people who advocate morality are allowed to do these things, they will definitely be derelict in their duties.
Therefore, Confucius said: When it comes to hearing lawsuits, I am the same as everyone else; if there must be a difference, then let people stop lawsuits. Lao Tzu said: Stupid and superficial people will laugh when they hear moral words.
These words are not false.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
汉兴，破觚而为圜，斫雕而为朴，网漏於吞舟之鱼，而吏治烝烝，不至於奸，黎民艾安。
由是观之，在彼不在此。
高后时，酷吏独有侯封，刻轹宗室，侵辱功臣。
吕氏已败，遂夷侯封之家。
孝景时，晁错以刻深颇用术辅其资，而七国之乱，发怒於错，错卒以被戮。
其後有郅都、宁成之属。
郅都者，杨人也。以郎事孝文帝。
孝景时，都为中郎将，敢直谏，面折大臣於朝。
尝从入上林，贾姬如厕，野彘卒入厕。
上目都，都不行。
上欲自持兵救贾姬，都伏上前曰： 亡一姬复一姬进，天下所少宁贾姬等乎？
translation: 
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, the square ones were destroyed and replaced by round ones, and major changes were made to the laws of the Qin Dynasty, just like cutting off the external carvings to reveal the simple and natural essence. The laws were changed from complicated to lenient and simple, just like a fishing net that could catch the fish that swallowed the boat. However, the officials' performance was pure and prosperous, and they would not do evil things, and the people were safe.
It can be seen from this that the beauty of national politics lies in the generosity of the king, not in the harshness of the law.
In the High Empress era, the only cruel officials were Hou Feng, who harshly oppressed the royal family, violated and humiliated meritorious ministers.
After Zhu Lu's complete defeat, the court killed Hou Feng's entire family.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaojing, Chao Cuo was harsh and cruel, and used magic to display his talents. As a result, the seven kingdoms of Wu, Chu, and others rebelled and vented their anger on Chao Cuo, who was killed.
After that, there were people like Zhidu and Ningcheng.
Zhi was a native of Yang County and served Emperor Xiaowen as a Langguan.
During the reign of Emperor Jing, Zhi Du became a lieutenant general. He dared to speak out and give advice to the court, and convinced people in person at the court.
He once followed the emperor to Shanglinyuan. When Jia Ji went to the toilet, a wild boar suddenly broke into the toilet.
The emperor signaled Zhidu with his eyes, but Zhidu refused to act.
The emperor wanted to save Jia Ji with weapons in person. Zhi Du knelt in front of the emperor and said: If you lose a concubine, another concubine will come into the palace. Is there a shortage of people like Jia Ji in the world?


Chunk 2: 
original: 
陛下纵自轻，柰宗庙太后何！
上还，彘亦去。
太后闻之，赐都金百斤，由此重郅都。
济南瞷氏宗人三百馀家，豪猾，二千石莫能制，於是景帝乃拜都为济南太守。
至则族灭瞷氏首恶，馀皆股栗。
居岁馀，郡中不拾遗。
旁十馀郡守畏都如大府。
都为人勇，有气力，公廉，不发私书，问遗无所受，请寄无所听。
常自称曰： 已倍亲而仕，身固当奉职死节官下，终不顾妻子矣。
郅都迁为中尉。丞相条侯至贵倨也，而都揖丞相。
是时民朴，畏罪自重，而都独先严酷，致行法不避贵戚，列侯宗室见都侧目而视，号曰 苍鹰 。
translation: 
Even if Your Majesty looks down upon yourself, what will happen to the Ancestral Temple and the Queen Mother?
The emperor turned around and the wild boar left.
The Queen Mother heard about this and rewarded Zhidu with a hundred catties of gold. From then on, she paid great attention to Zhidu.
There were more than 300 clans with the Jinan surname. They were powerful and slippery, and the governor of Jinan could not control them, so Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty appointed Zhi Du as the governor of Jinan.
When Zhidu came to Jinan County, he killed the whole family of the head of the family, and the rest of the bad guys were so frightened that their thighs trembled.
After more than a year, there are no more items found on the roads in Jinan County.
The governors of more than ten surrounding counties were as afraid of Zhi as they were of the superior officials.
Zhidu was brave, powerful, fair and honest. He would not open private letters asking for mercy or accept gifts, and he would not listen to personal requests.
He often said to himself: Since I have left my parents to become an official, I should fulfill my duties in the official position and die with integrity. After all, I cannot care about my wife and children.
Zhidu was promoted to the rank of lieutenant. Prime Minister Zhou Yafu had the highest rank and was arrogant. However, when Zhidu saw him, he only bowed to him and did not kneel down.
At this time, the people were simple, fearful of committing crimes, and were law-abiding and self-respecting. However, Zhidu took the initiative to implement harsh criminal laws, so that the law enforcement was not afraid of dignitaries and royal relatives. Even the princes and the royal family looked sideways and called him "Goshawk" when they saw him.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
临江王徵诣中尉府对簿，临江王欲得刀笔为书谢上，而都禁吏不予。
魏其侯使人以间与临江王。
临江王既为书谢上，因自杀。
窦太后闻之，怒，以危法中都，都免归家。
孝景帝乃使使持节拜都为雁门太守，而便道之官，得以便宜从事。
匈奴素闻郅都节，居边，为引兵去，竟郅都死不近雁门。
匈奴至为偶人象郅都，令骑驰射莫能中，见惮如此。
匈奴患之。
窦太后乃竟中都以汉法。景帝曰： 都忠臣。
欲释之。
窦太后曰： 临江王独非忠臣邪？
於是遂斩郅都。
宁成者，穰人也。以郎谒者事景帝。
好气，为人小吏，必陵其长吏；为人上，操下如束湿薪。
滑贼任威。稍迁至济南都尉，而郅都为守。
始前数都尉皆步入府，因吏谒守如县令，其畏郅都如此。
及成往，直陵都出其上。
都素闻其声，於是善遇，与结驩。
久之，郅都死，後长安左右宗室多暴犯法，於是上召宁成为中尉。其治效郅都，其廉弗如，然宗室豪桀皆人人惴恐。
武帝即位，徙为内史。
外戚多毁成之短，抵罪髡钳。是时九卿罪死即死，少被刑，而成极刑，自以为不复收，於是解脱，诈刻传出关归家。
translation: 
King Linjiang was summoned to the Lieutenant's Mansion for interrogation. King Linjiang wanted to get writing tools and wrote a letter to the emperor to express his apology. However, Zhidu told the officials not to give him writing tools.
Wei Qihou sent someone to secretly deliver writing tools to King Linjiang.
King Linjiang wrote a letter of apology to the emperor and committed suicide.
When Empress Dowager Dou heard the news, she became angry and used severe methods to slander Zhidu. Zhidu was dismissed from office and returned home.
Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty sent an envoy with a talisman to appoint Zhidu as the governor of Yanmen, and asked him to take the road directly to Yanmen to take office and handle political affairs independently according to the actual situation.
The Huns had always heard that Zhi Du had a moral integrity, and now he was guarding the border. Therefore, the Huns led their troops and left the Han Dynasty border. They did not dare to approach Yanmen until Zhi Du died.
The Huns even made puppets that looked like Zhidu and asked the cavalry to run and shoot. No one could hit them, and they were so afraid of Zhidu.
The Huns regarded Zhidu as a disaster.
Empress Dowager Dou finally used the laws of the Han Dynasty to slander Zhidu. Emperor Jing said: Zhidu are loyal ministers.
Want to free him.
Queen Mother Dou said: Isn't King Linjiang a loyal minister?
So they killed all Zhi.
Ning Cheng was a native of Rang County and served Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty as a bodyguard.
He is competitive, and when he is someone else's junior official, he must bully his superiors; when he is someone else's superior, he is as easy to control as tying wet sticks.
He was cunning, cruel, willful and powerful, and gradually rose to the rank of captain of Jinan. At this time, Zhi was also the prefect of Jinan.
Before this, several captains walked into the prefect's mansion, conveyed it through the lower-level officials, and then went to see the prefect, just like the county magistrate meeting the prefect. They were afraid of Zhidu and this was the way.
When Ning Cheng came, he crossed Zhidu and reached his superior position.
Zhidu had always heard of his reputation, so he treated him well and formed a friendly relationship with him.
After a long time, Zhidu died. Later, many people in the royal family near Chang'an committed violent crimes, so the emperor summoned Ning Cheng to become a lieutenant. His governance methods were imitated by Zhidu. His integrity was not as good as Zhidu, but everyone in the royal family was afraid of the powerful.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, Ning Cheng was appointed internal historian.
Relatives often slandered Ning Cheng's shortcomings, and he was punished according to law by shaving his hair and binding his neck with iron. At this time, Jiu Qing was executed for crimes that deserved death, and rarely received ordinary punishments, but Ning Cheng suffered extremely heavy punishments.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
称曰： 仕不至二千石，贾不至千万，安可比人乎！
乃贳贷买陂田千馀顷，假贫民，役使数千家。
数年，会赦。
致产数千金，为任侠，持吏长短，出从数十骑。
其使民威重於郡守。
周阳由者，其父赵兼以淮南王舅父侯周阳，故因姓周阳氏。
由以宗家任为郎，事孝文及景帝。
景帝时，由为郡守。
武帝即位，吏治尚循谨甚，然由居二千石中，最为暴酷骄恣。
所爱者，挠法活之；所憎者，曲法诛灭之。
所居郡，必夷其豪。
为守，视都尉如令。
为都尉，必陵太守，夺之治。
translation: 
He said: "If you can't be a high-ranking official of two thousand dan in office, and you can't make 10 million gu of money in business, how can you compare with others?"
So he borrowed money to buy more than a thousand hectares of irrigated land and rented it out to poor people. Thousands of families worked for him and were enslaved.
A few years later, I encountered amnesty.
He already has several thousand kilograms of gold in his family. He specializes in fighting injustices and grasping the shortcomings of officials. When he goes out, he is followed by dozens of people on horseback.
His authority to drive the people was greater than that of the county governor.
Zhou Yangyou, his father Zhao Jian was named Zhou Yanghou as the uncle of Huainan King Liu Chang, so his surname was Zhou Yang.
Zhou Yang was appointed Lang Guan because he was a relative, serving Emperor Xiaowen and Emperor Xiaojing.
During the reign of Emperor Jing, Zhou Yangyou became a Langguan.
After Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, officials handled political affairs and advocated following the law and acting prudently. However, Zhou Yangyou was the most tyrannical, cruel, proud and indulgent among the officials of the two thousand stone level.
If someone he likes commits a capital crime, he will bend the law to make that person live; if he hates someone, he will bend the law to kill him.
Whichever county he serves as an official, he must eliminate the wealthy families in that county.
When he was the prefect of the county, he regarded the captain as the county magistrate.
As a captain, he would definitely bully the prefect and usurp his power.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
与汲黯俱为忮，司马安之文恶，俱在二千石列，同车未尝敢均茵伏。
由後为河东都尉，时与其守胜屠公争权，相告言罪。胜屠公当抵罪，义不受刑，自杀，而由弃市。
自宁成、周阳由之後，事益多，民巧法，大抵吏之治类多成、由等矣。
赵禹者，斄人。以佐史补中都官，用廉为令史，事太尉亚夫。
亚夫为丞相，禹为丞相史，府中皆称其廉平。
然亚夫弗任，曰： 极知禹无害，然文深，不可以居大府。
今上时，禹以刀笔吏积劳，稍迁为御史。
上以为能，至太中大夫。
与张汤论定诸律令，作见知，吏传得相监司。
用法益刻，盖自此始。
张汤者，杜人也。
translation: 
He and Ji An were both ruthless people, and Sima An was good at using laws and regulations to harm others, and both were officials with two thousand stones. However, Ji An, Sima Anruo, and Zhou Yangyou did not dare to share the seats and rails with Zhou Yangyou in the same carriage.
Zhou Yangyou later became the captain of Hedong County. He often fought for power with the prefect Shentu Gong and complained to each other. As a result, Shen Gong was found guilty. However, he insisted on morality and refused to accept the punishment and committed suicide. Zhou Yangyou was sentenced to abandoning the market.
After Ning Cheng and Zhou Yang You, political affairs became more complicated, and the people used cunning and deceptive means to deal with the law. Most officials managed government affairs just like Ning Cheng and Zhou Yang You.
Zhao Yu was a native of Zhuxian County. He was appointed as an official in the capital government as an assistant historian. Because of his integrity, he was promoted to an official historian and served Zhou Yafu.
Zhou Yafu became the prime minister, and Zhao Yu became the prime minister. Everyone in the prime minister's house praised him for his integrity and fairness.
But Zhou Yafu did not reuse him and said: I know that Zhao Yu has outstanding talents, but he enforces the law very harshly and cannot be an official in the upper-level government.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, Zhao Yu accumulated merit due to his clerical work and was gradually promoted to censor.
The emperor thought he was talented and was promoted to Taishi doctor.
He and Zhang Tang jointly formulated various laws and made "knowledge laws" to allow officials to monitor and report each other.
The laws in the Han Dynasty became increasingly strict, probably starting from this time.
Zhang Tang is from Du County.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
其父为长安丞，出，汤为兒守舍。
还而鼠盗肉，其父怒，笞汤。
汤掘窟得盗鼠及馀肉，劾鼠掠治，传爰书，讯鞫论报，并取鼠与肉，具狱磔堂下。
其父见之，视其文辞如老狱吏，大惊，遂使书狱。
父死後，汤为长安吏，久之。
周阳侯始为诸卿时，尝系长安，汤倾身为之。
及出为侯，大与汤交，遍见汤贵人。
汤给事内史，为宁成掾，以汤为无害，言大府，调为茂陵尉，治方中。
武安侯为丞相，徵汤为史，时荐言之天子，补御史，使案事。
治陈皇后蛊狱，深竟党与。
於是上以为能，稍迁至太中大夫。
translation: 
His father, who was the magistrate of Chang'an County, once went out. Zhang Tang was a child at the time, so his father asked him to stay at home and look after the door.
After his father came home, he saw that the mouse had stolen the meat. He became angry with Zhang Tang and beat him with a whip.
Zhang Tang dug a rat hole and found the rat that stole the meat and the uneaten meat. He accused the rat of the crime, tortured and interrogated it, recorded the interrogation process, repeatedly interrogated, reported the verdict to his superiors, took the rat and the leftover meat, and finally decided the case in court, and cut the rat into pieces and executed it.
His father was particularly surprised when he saw this scene and saw that the verdict looked like it was written by an experienced judge, so he asked him to learn Xing prison documents.
After his father's death, Zhang Tang became an official in Chang'an for a long time.
When Zhou Yang Hou Tian Sheng began to serve as an official of Jiuqing, he was detained in Chang'an, and Zhang Tang tried his best to rescue him.
After Tian Sheng was released from prison and made a marquis, he kept close contact with Zhang Tang and introduced the powerful officials of the dynasty to Zhang Tang one by one, so that Zhang Tang could get acquainted with them.
Zhang Tang served in the internal history and served as an official subordinate to Ning Cheng. Because Zhang Tang was unparalleled in talent, Ning Cheng recommended it to the superior government. Zhang Tang was promoted to Maolingwei and was in charge of the civil engineering of the tomb.
Tian Fan, Marquis of Wu'an, became the prime minister and recruited Zhang Tang as the internal historian. He often recommended him to the emperor and was appointed as the censor, allowing him to inspect and handle prison affairs.
When he presided over the handling of Queen Chen's witchcraft case, he investigated his accomplices in depth.
So Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty thought that he had the ability to do things, and gradually promoted him to Taizhong doctor.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
与赵禹共定诸律令，务在深文，拘守职之吏。
已而赵禹迁为中尉，徙为少府，而张汤为廷尉，两人交驩，而兄事禹。
禹为人廉倨。为吏以来，舍毋食客。
公卿相造请禹，禹终不报谢，务在绝知友宾客之请，孤立行一意而已。
见文法辄取，亦不覆案，求官属阴罪。
汤为人多诈，舞智以御人。
始为小吏，乾没，与长安富贾田甲、鱼翁叔之属交私。
及列九卿，收接天下名士大夫，己心内虽不合，然阳浮慕之。
是时上方乡文学，汤决大狱，欲傅古义，乃请博士弟子治尚书、春秋补廷尉史，亭疑法。
奏谳疑事，必豫先为上分别其原，上所是，受而著谳决法廷尉，絜令扬主之明。
translation: 
Together with Zhao Yu, he formulated various legal provisions to be strict and strict to restrain the officials in office.
Soon, Zhao Yu was promoted to lieutenant and then to Shaofu, while Zhang Tang became a court lieutenant. The two had a friendly relationship, and Zhang Tang treated Zhao Yu with the same etiquette as he treated his elder brother.
Zhao Yu was an honest and arrogant man. Since he became an official, he has had no guests at home.
The Three Gongs and Nine Qings came to visit him, but Zhao Yu never returned the visit to thank him. He tried to cut off all contact with close friends and guests and handle his official affairs alone.
When he saw the legal provisions, he took them without reviewing them, in order to pursue the hidden sins of subordinate officials.
Zhang Tang is cunning and good at controlling others with his wisdom.
When he first became a minor official, he liked to use his power for personal gain. He once colluded with the wealthy businessmen Tian Jia and Yu Wengshu in Chang'an.
When he became the ninth minister, he made friends with famous scholars and officials all over the world. Although he disagreed with them in his heart, he pretended to admire them on the surface.
At this time, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was serious about Confucianism. When Zhang Tang decided on major cases, he wanted to adopt Confucian views, so he asked his PhD disciples to study "Shangshu" and "Spring and Autumn".
Every time a difficult case was submitted for judgment, the whole story was analyzed in advance to the emperor. If the emperor thought it was right, he would accept it and record it as a rule for judging the case, and publish it in the name of Tingwei to praise the emperor's sage.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
奏事即谴，汤应谢，乡上意所便，必引正、监、掾史贤者，曰： 固为臣议，如上责臣，臣弗用，愚抵於此。
罪常释。
即奏事，上善之，曰： 臣非知为此奏，乃正、监、掾史某为之。
其欲荐吏，扬人之善蔽人之过如此。
所治即上意所欲罪，予监史深祸者；即上意所欲释，与监史轻平者。
所治即豪，必舞文巧诋；即下户羸弱，时口言，虽文致法，上财察。
於是往往释汤所言。
汤至於大吏，内行脩也。通宾客饮食。於故人子弟为吏及贫昆弟，调护之尤厚。
其造请诸公，不避寒暑。
是以汤虽文深意忌不专平，然得此声誉。
而刻深吏多为爪牙用者，依於文学之士。
丞相弘数称其美。
translation: 
If the report was condemned, Zhang Tang would admit his mistake and apologize. Following the emperor's wishes, he would definitely name the right, left and right eunuchs and capable officials, saying: They originally proposed to me, just like the emperor reproached me, but I did not adopt it. I was so stupid.
Therefore, his crimes were often forgiven by the emperor.
Sometimes he would submit a memorial to the emperor, and if the emperor thought it was good, he would say: "I don't know that this memorial was written by the chief, left and right eunuchs, and subordinate officials."
He wanted to recommend officials, praise others' merits, and cover up others' faults. He often did this.
If the emperor wants to impose more crimes on the cases he handles, he will hand them over to the supervisor who enforces the law harshly; if the emperor wants to forgive the case, he will hand it over to the supervisor who enforces the law lightly and fairly.
If what he is dealing with is a powerful person, he must play with the legal provisions and frame him skillfully. If they are ordinary people or weak people, they often state to the emperor orally that although they should be sentenced according to the law, they should ask the emperor to make a clear decision.
Therefore, the emperor often released the people Zhang Tang mentioned.
Although Zhang Tang became a high official, he was well-educated. He socialized with guests, drank and dined with them, and was especially generous to the children of his old friends who were officials and to his poor brothers.
He paid homage to the Three Lords and did not avoid the cold or heat.
Therefore, although Zhang Tang enforced the law harshly, was jealous in his heart, and was not pure and fair in his dealings, he still gained a good reputation.
Those officials who enforced the law cruelly and cruelly were all used as subordinates by him, and they all obeyed the Confucian scholars.
Prime Minister Gongsun Hong repeatedly praised his virtues.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
及治淮南、衡山、江都反狱，皆穷根本。
严助及伍被，上欲释之。汤争曰： 伍被本画反谋，而助亲幸出入禁闼爪牙臣，乃交私诸侯如此，弗诛，後不可治。
於是上可论之。
其治狱所排大臣自为功，多此类。
於是汤益尊任，迁为御史大夫。
会浑邪等降，汉大兴兵伐匈奴，山东水旱，贫民流徙，皆仰给县官，县官空虚。
於是丞上指，请造白金及五铢钱，笼天下盐铁，排富商大贾，出告缗令，鉏豪彊并兼之家，舞文巧诋以辅法。
汤每朝奏事，语国家用，日晏，天子忘食。
丞相取充位，天下事皆决於汤。
百姓不安其生，骚动，县官所兴，未获其利，奸吏并侵渔，於是痛绳以罪。
则自公卿以下，至於庶人，咸指汤。
汤尝病，天子至自视病，其隆贵如此。
translation: 
When he handles the rebellion cases of King Huainan, King Hengshan and King Jiangdu, he will be able to pursue them to the end.
The emperor originally wanted to forgive Yan Zhu and Wu Bei, but Zhang Tang argued: Wu Bei was the one who planned the rebellion, and Yan Zhu was a close and favored person of the emperor.
Therefore, the emperor agreed to their sentence.
This is most likely the case when he handles cases against ministers and takes credit for himself.
As a result, Zhang Tang gained more respect and trust, and was promoted to the imperial censor.
It happened that King Hunxie of the Xiongnu and others surrendered to the Han Dynasty, and the Han Dynasty sent out a large army to attack the Xiongnu. Shandong encountered floods and droughts, and the poor people were displaced. They all relied on the state to supply food and clothing, and the country's warehouses were therefore empty.
So Zhang Tang, in accordance with the emperor's decree, asked for silver coins and five-baht coins to be minted to monopolize the world's salt and iron management rights, crack down on wealthy merchants, issue denunciations, eradicate the power of powerful merger families, and play tricks on legal provisions to assist the implementation of the law.
Every time Zhang Tang went to court to discuss the country's financial situation, he talked about it until evening, and the emperor also forgot about meal time.
The prime minister has nothing to do and only occupies his position. Everything in the world depends on Zhang Tang.
As a result, the people could not live in peace of mind and were in a state of turmoil. They could not benefit from the affairs established by the state, but corrupt officials committed robbery and theft together, so they were thoroughly punished according to law.
From the Sangong and Jiuqing down to the common people, everyone blamed Zhang Tang.
Zhang Tang was once ill, and the emperor personally went to visit him. His nobility reached this point.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
匈奴来请和亲，群臣议上前。
博士狄山曰： 和亲便。
上问其便，山曰： 兵者凶器，未易数动。
高帝欲伐匈奴，大困平城，乃遂结和亲。
孝惠、高后时，天下安乐。
及孝文帝欲事匈奴，北边萧然苦兵矣。
孝景时，吴楚七国反，景帝往来两宫间，寒心者数月。
吴楚已破，竟景帝不言兵，天下富实。
今自陛下举兵击匈奴，中国以空虚，边民大困贫。
由此观之，不如和亲。
上问汤，汤曰： 此愚儒，无知。
狄山曰： 臣固愚忠，若御史大夫汤乃诈忠。
若汤之治淮南、江都，以深文痛诋诸侯，别疏骨肉，使蕃臣不自安。
臣固知汤之为诈忠。
於是上作色曰： 吾使生居一郡，能无使虏入盗乎？ 曰： 不能。
曰： 居一县？
对曰： 不能。
复曰： 居一障间？
translation: 
The Xiongnu came to ask for peace, and the ministers discussed it in front of the emperor.
Dr. Dishan said: It is beneficial to get married.
The emperor asked him the reason for his advantage, and Di Shan said: Weapons are deadly weapons, so don't use them repeatedly.
Emperor Gao wanted to attack the Huns and was besieged in Pingcheng, so he concluded a peace.
During the period of Emperor Xiaohui and Queen Gao, the world was peaceful and happy.
When Emperor Xiaowen wanted to deal with the Huns, the northern border was harassed and the people suffered from war.
During the reign of Emperor Xiao Jing, seven kingdoms including Wu and Chu rebelled. Emperor Jing went back and forth between the two palaces to discuss matters, and he was worried for several months.
Wu and Chu had been defeated, Emperor Jing never talked about war until his death, and the world was prosperous and fulfilled.
Now since His Majesty sent troops to attack the Xiongnu, the country has been empty, and the people on the border are very embarrassed and impoverished.
From this point of view, it is better to get married.
The emperor asked Zhang Tang, and Zhang Tang said: This is a stupid Confucian scholar who is ignorant.
Disheng said: I am indeed foolishly loyal, but Zhang Tang, the imperial censor, is falsely loyal.
For example, Zhang Tang handled the cases of King Huainan and King Jiangdu, using harsh laws to slander the princes and kings, alienating the emperor's closest relatives, thus making the kings of various feudal states feel uneasy.
I already knew that Zhang Tang was hypocritical.
So the emperor changed his expression and said: If I send you to guard a county, can you prevent barbarians from coming in and plundering it? Dishan said: No.
The emperor said: How about garrisoning a county?
The answer is: No.
The emperor then said: What about garrisoning a fortress?


Chunk 11: 
original: 
山自度辩穷且下吏，曰： 能。
於是上遣山乘鄣。
至月馀，匈奴斩山头而去。
自是以後，群臣震慴。
汤之客田甲，虽贾人，有贤操。
始汤为小吏时，与钱通，及汤为大吏，甲所以责汤行义过失，亦有烈士风。
汤为御史大夫七岁，败。
河东人李文尝与汤有卻，已而为御史中丞，恚，数从中文书事有可以伤汤者，不能为地。
汤有所爱史鲁谒居，知汤不平，使人上蜚变告文奸事，事下汤，汤治论杀文，而汤心知谒居为之。
上问曰： 言变事纵迹安起？
汤详惊曰： 此殆文故人怨之。
谒居病卧闾里主人，汤自往视疾，为谒居摩足。
translation: 
Dishan himself estimated that after exhausting his defense, he would be handed over to the judicial officer for punishment, so he said: "Yes."
So the emperor sent Dishan to a castle on the frontier.
After more than a month, the Huns chopped off Dishan's head and left.
From then on, the ministers were shocked and frightened.
Zhang Tang's guest Tian Jia, although a businessman, has a virtuous character.
When Zhang Tang was a minor official, he and Zhang Tang had a financial relationship. When Zhang Tang became a senior official, Tian Jia blamed Zhang Tang for his moral faults and the demeanor of a loyal and generous man.
Zhang Tang served as the imperial censor for seven years but failed.
Li Wen, a native of Hedong, once had a quarrel with Zhang Tang. Later he became the censor Zhongcheng. He resented Zhang Tang in his heart and repeatedly searched for materials in the palace documents that could be used to harm Zhang Tang without leaving any room.
Zhang Tang had a favorite subordinate named Lu Yeju. Knowing that Zhang Tang was unhappy about this, he asked someone to report Li Wen's bad deeds to the emperor with rumors. This matter was handed over to Zhang Tang. Zhang Tang sentenced Li Wen to death and killed him. He also knew that it was Lu Yeju who did this.
The emperor asked: How did the anonymous complaint against Li Wen happen?
Zhang Tang pretended to be surprised and said: "This is probably because Li Wen's old friends resent him."
Later, Lu Yeju fell ill and stayed at the home of his fellow villager. Zhang Tang went to see his condition in person and massaged Lu Yeju's legs and feet.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
赵国以冶铸为业，王数讼铁官事，汤常排赵王。
赵王求汤阴事。
谒居尝案赵王，赵王怨之，并上书告： 汤，大臣也，史谒居有病，汤至为摩足，疑与为大奸。
事下廷尉。谒居病死，事连其弟，弟系导官。
汤亦治他囚导官，见谒居弟，欲阴为之，而详不省。
谒居弟弗知，怨汤，使人上书告汤与谒居谋，共变告李文。
事下减宣。
宣尝与汤有卻，及得此事，穷竟其事，未奏也。
会人有盗发孝文园瘗钱，丞相青翟朝，与汤约俱谢，至前，汤念独丞相以四时行园，当谢，汤无与也，不谢。
丞相谢，上使御史案其事。
translation: 
The people of Zhao relied on smelting and casting as their profession. King Zhao Liu Pengzu had many lawsuits with the officials sent by the imperial court to be in charge of casting iron. Zhang Tang often attacked King Zhao.
King Zhao searched for Zhang Tang's secret affairs.
Lu Yeju once reported on King Zhao. King Zhao resented him, so he also wrote a letter to report, saying: Zhang Tang is a minister, and his official Lu Yeju is ill. Zhang Tang actually massaged his feet. I suspect that the two of them must have done something bad together.
The matter was handed over to Tingwei. Lu Yeju died of illness. His younger brother was imprisoned in the director's office.
Zhang Tang also went to the director's office to interrogate other prisoners. When he saw Lu Yeju's younger brother, he wanted to help him secretly, so he pretended not to check him.
Lu Yeju's younger brother didn't know about this situation and resented Zhang Tang, so he asked someone to sue Zhang Tang and Lu Yeju for conspiracy, and jointly anonymously reported Li Wen.
Let this matter be dealt with by reducing publicity.
Jiaxuan once had a quarrel with Zhang Tang, but when he accepted the case, he found out the details of the case and did not report it.
It happened that someone secretly dug up the burial money in Emperor Xiaowen's cemetery. Prime Minister Zhuang Qingzhai went to court and agreed with Zhang Tang to go to apologize. When he arrived in front of the emperor, Zhang Tang thought that only the prime minister must visit the cemetery according to the four seasons, and the prime minister should apologize. It had nothing to do with me, Zhang Tang, who refused to apologize.
After the prime minister apologized, the emperor sent the censor to investigate the matter.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
汤欲致其文丞相见知，丞相患之。
三长史皆害汤，欲陷之。
始长史硃买臣，会稽人也。读春秋。
庄助使人言买臣，买臣以楚辞与助俱幸，侍中，为太中大夫，用事；而汤乃为小吏，跪伏使买臣等前。
已而汤为廷尉，治淮南狱，排挤庄助，买臣固心望。
及汤为御史大夫，买臣以会稽守为主爵都尉，列於九卿。
数年，坐法废，守长史，见汤，汤坐床上，丞史遇买臣弗为礼。
买臣楚士，深怨，常欲死之。
王朝，齐人也。以术至右内史。
边通，学长短，刚暴彊人也，官再至济南相。
故皆居汤右，已而失官，守长史，诎体於汤。
汤数行丞相事，知此三长史素贵，常凌折之。
translation: 
Zhang Tang wanted to sentence the prime minister to the crime of knowingly committing crimes according to the legal provisions, but the prime minister was worried about this matter.
The three chief ministers under the prime minister all hated Zhang Tang and wanted to frame him.
Initially, Zhu Maichen, the chief historian, was from Kuaiji and studied "Spring and Autumn".
Zhuang Zhu asked people to recommend Zhu Maichen to the emperor. Because Zhu Maichen was familiar with "Chu Ci", both Zhuang Zhu and Zhuang Zhu were favored by the emperor, and were promoted from servants to Taizhong doctors and became powerful. At this time, Zhang Tang was just a minor official. He knelt down in front of Zhu Maichen and others and waited for orders.
Soon, Zhang Tang became a court official, handling the Huainan King's case and ostracizing Zhuang Zhu. Zhu Maichen originally resented Zhang Tang.
After Zhang Tang became the imperial censor, Zhu Maichen was transferred from the position of prefect of Kuaiji to the position of lord and captain, ranking among the nine ministers.
A few years later, he was dismissed from office for violating the law. The acting chief historian went to see Zhang Tang. Zhang Tang sat on the chair he usually sat on to receive Zhu Maichen. His subordinate officials such as the prime minister did not treat Zhu Maichen politely.
Zhu Maichen was a scholar from the Chu region. He deeply resented Zhang Tang and often wanted to kill him.
The dynasty was from Qi, and he became the right internal historian based on Confucianism.
Bian Tong, who studied the thoughts and doctrines of political strategists, is a powerful person with a strong and explosive personality. He became an official and became the prime minister of the King of Jinan twice.
In the past, they were all senior officials to Zhang Tang. Soon after they lost their positions, the acting chief Shi knelt down and worshiped Zhang Tang.
Zhang Tang held the post of prime minister many times. Knowing that these three chief ministers had high status, he often bullied and suppressed them.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
以故三长史合谋曰： 始汤约与君谢，已而卖君；今欲劾君以宗庙事，此欲代君耳。
吾知汤阴事。
使吏捕案汤左田信等，曰汤且欲奏请，信辄先知之，居物致富，与汤分之，及他奸事。
事辞颇闻。上问汤曰： 吾所为，贾人辄先知之，益居其物，是类有以吾谋告之者。
汤不谢。汤又详惊曰： 固宜有。
减宣亦奏谒居等事。
天子果以汤怀诈面欺，使使八辈簿责汤。
汤具自道无此，不服。
於是上使赵禹责汤。
禹至，让汤曰： 君何不知分也。
君所治夷灭者几何人矣？
今人言君皆有状，天子重致君狱，欲令君自为计，何多以对簿为？
汤乃为书谢曰： 汤无尺寸功，起刀笔吏，陛下幸致为三公，无以塞责。然谋陷汤罪者，三长史也。
遂自杀。
汤死，家产直不过五百金，皆所得奉赐，无他业。
昆弟诸子欲厚葬汤，汤母曰： 汤为天子大臣，被汙恶言而死，何厚葬乎！
载以牛车，有棺无椁。
天子闻之，曰： 非此母不能生此子。
乃尽案诛三长史。
丞相青翟自杀。
translation: 
Therefore, the three chief historians conspired and said to Zhuang Qingzhai: First, Zhang Tang agreed with you to apologize to the emperor, and then betrayed you; now he accuses you of the incident in the ancestral temple, in order to replace you.
We know Zhang Tang’s illegal privacy.
So they sent subordinate officials to arrest and interrogate Zhang Tang's accomplices Tian Xin and others, saying that Zhang Tang was going to report political affairs to the emperor. Tian Xin knew about it in advance, and then hoarded supplies, made a fortune, shared the dirty laundry with Zhang Tang, and did other bad things.
The confession about this matter was heard by the emperor. The emperor said to Zhang Tang: The merchants knew what I was going to do in advance and hoarded the goods more and more. It was as if someone had told them my thoughts.
Zhang Tang did not apologize, but pretended to be surprised and said: "It should be said that someone must have done this."
At this time, Jia Xuan also submitted a memorial to report Zhang Tang and Lu Yeju's crimes.
As expected, the emperor thought that Zhang Tang was deceitful and deceived the king in person, so he sent eight groups of envoys to interrogate Zhang Tang based on the recorded evidence.
Zhang Tang himself said that he was not guilty of these crimes and refused to accept it.
So the emperor sent Zhao Yu to interrogate Zhang Tang.
After Zhao Yu came, he blamed Zhang Tang and said: How could the emperor not know the situation?
When you handled the case, how many people in the family were wiped out?
Now that there is evidence for the charges against you, it is difficult for the emperor to handle your case. If he wants you to commit suicide, why bother to answer the evidence?
Zhang Tang wrote a letter to apologize and said: Zhang Tang had no great merit and was only a clerk at first. Your Majesty favored me and placed me in the position of three princes. There is no way to evade the guilt. However, the criminals who conspired to frame Zhang Tang were three long history officials.
Zhang Tang committed suicide.
When Zhang Tang died, the total value of his family property did not exceed five hundred gold. They were all salary and rewards from the emperor, and there was no other property.
Zhang Tang's brothers and sons still wanted to give Zhang Tang a rich burial. His mother said: Zhang Tang was a minister of the emperor and died after being falsely accused. Why should he be buried richly?
So the coffin was pulled by an ox cart without an outer coffin.
When the emperor heard about this situation, he said: Without such a mother, such a son cannot be born.
So he investigated the case thoroughly and killed all three long history officials.
Prime Minister Zhuang Qingzhai also committed suicide.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
出田信。
上惜汤。稍迁其子安世。
赵禹中废，已而为廷尉。
始条侯以为禹贼深，弗任。
及禹为少府，比九卿。
禹酷急，至晚节，事益多，吏务为严峻，而禹治加缓，而名为平。
王温舒等後起，治酷於禹。
禹以老，徙为燕相。
数岁，乱悖有罪，免归。後汤十馀年，以寿卒于家。
义纵者，河东人也。
为少年时，尝与张次公俱攻剽为群盗。
纵有姊姁，以医幸王太后。
王太后问： 有子兄弟为官者乎？
姊曰： 有弟无行，不可。
太后乃告上，拜义姁弟纵为中郎，补上党郡中令。
治敢行，少蕴藉，县无逋事，举为第一。
translation: 
Tian Xin was released.
The emperor took pity on Zhang Tang and gradually promoted his son Zhang Anshi.
Zhao Yu was dismissed from office midway and soon became a court official.
Initially, Tiao Hou Zhou Yafu believed that Zhao Yu had a cruel conspiracy and refused to reuse him.
When Zhao Yu became the Shaofu, he was ranked alongside Jiu Qing.
Zhao Yu was harsh and impatient in his work. In his later years, there were more and more affairs in the country, and officials were dedicated to enforcing severe punishments. However, Zhao Yu enforced the law and provided relief, and he was known as peaceful.
Wu Wenshu and others were rising officials, and their law enforcement was harsher than that of Zhao Yu.
Because Zhao Yu was old, he was appointed as the prime minister of Yan State.
A few years later, he was dismissed from office for being confused and rebellious. More than ten years after Zhang Tang's death, he died at home.
Yi Zong is from Hedong.
When he was a boy, he once robbed with Zhang Cigong and formed a gang of robbers.
Yi Zong had a sister named Chang who was favored by the Queen Mother for her medical skills.
The Queen Mother asked Ji, "Do you have any sons or brothers who are officials?"
Yizong's sister said: I have a younger brother who has bad conduct and cannot be an official.
The Empress Dowager told the Emperor that Ren Yishan's younger brother Yi Zong was promoted to Zhonglang and was appointed magistrate of a certain county in Shangdang County.
Yi Zong enforces the law harshly and is rarely tolerant and tolerant. Therefore, there are no escapes in the county and he is recommended as the first.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
迁为长陵及长安令，直法行治，不避贵戚。
以捕案太后外孙脩成君子仲，上以为能，迁为河内都尉。
至则族灭其豪穰氏之属，河内道不拾遗。
而张次公亦为郎，以勇悍从军，敢深入，有功，为岸头侯。
宁成家居，上欲以为郡守。
御史大夫弘曰： 臣居山东为小吏时，宁成为济南都尉，其治如狼牧羊。
成不可使治民。
上乃拜成为关都尉。
岁馀，关东吏隶郡国出入关者，号曰 宁见乳虎，无值宁成之怒 。
义纵自河内迁为南阳太守，闻宁成家居南阳，及纵至关，宁成侧行送迎，然纵气盛，弗为礼。
至郡，遂案宁氏，尽破碎其家。
成坐有罪，及孔、暴之属皆饹亡，南阳吏民重足一迹。
而平氏硃彊、杜衍、杜周为纵牙爪之吏，任用，迁为廷史。
军数出定襄，定襄吏民乱败，於是徙纵为定襄太守。
纵至，掩定襄狱中重罪轻系二百馀人，及宾客昆弟私入相视亦二百馀人。
纵一捕鞠，曰 为死罪解脱 。
translation: 
Later, he was appointed as the county magistrate of Changling and Chang'an. He handled political affairs in accordance with the law and did not avoid nobles and royal relatives.
Because of the arrest and interrogation of Zhong, the son of Xiu Chengjun, the grandson of the Queen Mother, the emperor believed that he was capable and appointed him as the captain of Hanoi.
After taking office, he exterminated the local powerful Rang clan, causing a situation in Hanoi where there was no way to collect things.
Zhang Cigong also became a Langguan, and with his bravery and valor he became a soldier. Because he dared to penetrate deep into the enemy's army in battle, he won military merit and was named a shore headhou.
When Ning Cheng was leisurely at home, the emperor wanted him to become a prefect.
Gongsun Hong, the imperial censor, said: When I was a minor official in Shandong, Ning Cheng was the captain of Jinan. He handled political affairs as fiercely as a wolf herding sheep.
Ningcheng cannot be used to govern the people.
The emperor appointed Ning Cheng as the captain of the Guan Dynasty.
A year later, the officials of Guandong County inspected the people entering and exiting the county, and they all threatened: "I would rather see a tigress nursing her cubs than encounter Ning Cheng who is angry."
Yi Zong was transferred from Hanoi to be the governor of Nanyang. He heard that Ning Cheng was living leisurely at his home in Nanyang. When Yi Zong arrived at the Nanyang Pass, Ning Cheng followed him to greet and see him off, but Yi Zong was domineering and did not treat him politely.
When he arrived at the county government, Yi Zong tried the Ning family's crimes and completely crushed the guilty Ning family.
Ning Cheng was also implicated and guilty. As for the wealthy families named Kong and Bao, they all fled. The officials and people in Nanyang were afraid and acted cautiously, not daring to make mistakes.
Zhu Qiang of Pingshi County and Du Zhou of Duyan County were both powerful subordinate officials of Yi Zong. They were highly used and promoted to court history.
At this time, the Han Dynasty's army sent troops from Dingxiang to attack the Huns many times. The officials and people in Dingxiang were disorganized and the social customs were corrupted. The court therefore appointed Yi Zong as the prefect of Dingxiang.
After Yi Zong took office, he arrested 200 felons in Dingxiang Prison without torture instruments, and more than 200 of their guests and brothers visited the prison privately.
Yi Zong arrested them all and interrogated them on the charge of "extricating themselves from the death penalty".


Chunk 17: 
original: 
是日皆报杀四百馀人。
其後郡中不寒而栗，猾民佐吏为治。
是时赵禹、张汤以深刻为九卿矣，然其治尚宽，辅法而行，而纵以鹰击毛挚为治。
後会五铢钱白金起，民为奸，京师尤甚，乃以纵为右内史，王温舒为中尉。
温舒至恶，其所为不先言纵，纵必以气凌之，败坏其功。
其治，所诛杀甚多，然取为小治，奸益不胜，直指始出矣。
吏之治以斩杀缚束为务，阎奉以恶用矣。
纵廉，其治放郅都。
上幸鼎湖，病久，已而卒起幸甘泉，道多不治。上怒曰： 纵以我为不复行此道乎？
嗛之。
至冬，杨可方受告缗，纵以为此乱民，部吏捕其为可使者。
天子闻，使杜式治，以为废格沮事，弃纵市。
translation: 
The number of killings was reported on this day, totaling more than 400 people.
After this, everyone in the county trembled with fear, and even cunning people assisted the officials in managing political affairs.
At this time, both Zhao Yu and Zhang Tang became officials of the Nine Qing Dynasty because of their harsh law enforcement. However, their governance methods were relatively loose and they all relied on the law to assist them. However, Yi Zong managed political affairs with ruthlessness and ferocity.
Later, when the five-baht coin and platinum came into use, the wealthy people took the opportunity to use deception, especially in the capital. The imperial court appointed Yi Zong as the right internal historian, and Wang Wenshu became the lieutenant.
Wang Wenshu is extremely vicious. If he does not inform Yi Zong in advance of what he does, Yi Zong will definitely use his personal loyalty to bully him and destroy what he does.
He managed political affairs and killed many people, but his hasty management not only had little effect, but more and more evil things happened, so the direct officials began to appear.
Officials' main tasks in managing political affairs were to kill and bind, and Yan Feng was appointed because of his ruthlessness.
He was righteous and honest, and he followed the example of Zhidu in governing political affairs.
The emperor visited Dinghu Lake and was ill for a long time. After recovering from his illness, he suddenly visited Ganquan Palace. Most of the roads he traveled were not repaired. The emperor got angry and said: "Yi Zong thinks I won't walk this road again, right?"
Holding grudges and righteousness in one's heart.
In the winter, Yang Ke was ordered to preside over the handling of "accusation cases". Yi Zong thought that this would disturb the people and deployed officials to arrest those who went out to do things for Yang Ke.
When the emperor heard about this incident, he sent Du Shi to deal with it. He thought that Yi Zong's behavior was to abandon the courtesy of respecting the king, destroying the king's affairs, and abandoning Yi Zong.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
後一岁，张汤亦死。
王温舒者，阳陵人也。
少时椎埋为奸。
已而试补县亭长，数废。
为吏，以治狱至廷史。
事张汤，迁为御史。
督盗贼，杀伤甚多，稍迁至广平都尉。
择郡中豪敢任吏十馀人，以为爪牙，皆把其阴重罪，而纵使督盗贼，快其意所欲得。
此人虽有百罪，弗法；即有避，因其事夷之，亦灭宗。
以其故齐赵之郊盗贼不敢近广平，广平声为道不拾遗。
上闻，迁为河内太守。
素居广平时，皆知河内豪奸之家，及往，九月而至。
令郡具私马五十匹，为驿自河内至长安，部吏如居广平时方略，捕郡中豪猾，郡中豪猾相连坐千馀家。
translation: 
A year later, Zhang Tang also died.
Wang Wenshu is from Yangling.
He did bad things like tomb robbing when he was young.
Soon, he became the county pavilion chief and was dismissed many times.
Later, he became a minor official and was promoted to court history because he was good at handling cases.
Serve Zhang Tang and be promoted to censor.
He supervised the arrest of thieves and killed many people, and was gradually promoted to the captain of Guangping.
He selected more than ten bold and courageous people in the county to serve as officials, and asked them to be powerful assistants. He could master the secret crimes of each of them, and then let them go to supervise the arrest of thieves.
If someone captures a thief and Wang Wenshu is satisfied, he will not be punished even if he has hundreds of crimes; if he avoids it, he will be killed based on the crimes he has committed in the past, or even his family will be destroyed.
For this reason, thieves in the countryside of Qi and Zhao did not dare to approach Guangping County, and Guangping County had a good reputation for not picking up lost items.
After the emperor heard about it, he promoted Wang Wenshu to be the governor of Hanoi.
Wang Wenshu used to live in Quang Binh and was completely familiar with the powerful and cunning families in Hanoi. When he went to Quang Binh, he took office in September.
He ordered the county government to prepare fifty private horses and set up a post station from Hanoi to Chang'an. He deployed his officials in the same way as in Guangping to arrest the powerful and cunning people in the county. There were more than a thousand families of powerful and cunning people in the county who committed crimes.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
上书请，大者至族，小者乃死，家尽没入偿臧。
奏行不过二三日，得可事。
论报，至流血十馀里。
河内皆怪其奏，以为神速。
尽十二月，郡中毋声，毋敢夜行，野无犬吠之盗。
其颇不得，失之旁郡国，黎来，会春，温舒顿足叹曰： 嗟乎，令冬月益展一月，足吾事矣！
其好杀伐行威不爱人如此。
天子闻之，以为能，迁为中尉。
其治复放河内，徙诸名祸猾吏与从事，河内则杨皆、麻戊，关中杨赣、成信等。
义纵为内史，惮未敢恣治。
及纵死，张汤败後，徙为廷尉，而尹齐为中尉。
尹齐者，东郡茌平人。以刀笔稍迁至御史。
translation: 
A letter was submitted to the emperor for instructions. Those who committed major crimes would be exterminated, and those who committed minor crimes would be put to death. Their family property would be completely confiscated and the stolen goods obtained in the past would be repaid.
It only took two or three days after the memorial was sent away to get an executable reply from the emperor.
The verdict of the case was reported, and bloodshed lasted for more than ten miles.
Everyone in Hanoi was surprised by Wang Wenshu's memorial and thought it was so fast.
December is over, no one in the county dares to speak, no one dares to walk at night, and there are no dogs barking in the countryside due to thieves.
The few criminals who were not caught fled to nearby counties. When they were hunted down and captured, it was spring. Wang Wenshu stamped his feet and sighed: Alas! If winter lasts another month, my business will be done.
This is how he likes to kill and show his power and does not care for the people.
The emperor heard this and thought he had talent, so he was promoted to lieutenant.
He still followed Hanoi's approach in governing political affairs, and brought in famous evildoers and cunning officials to work with him, including Yang Jieyu and Ma Wu in Hanoi, and Yang Gan and Cheng Xin in Guanzhong.
Because Yi Zong was the internal historian, Wang Wenshu was afraid of him, so he did not dare to implement harsh policies arbitrarily.
After Yi Zong died and Zhang Tang failed, Wang Wenshu was promoted to Tingwei and Yin Qi became lieutenant.
Yin Qi was a native of Chiping, Dongjun. He was promoted from a clerk to a censor.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
事张汤，张汤数称以为廉武，使督盗贼，所斩伐不避贵戚。
迁为关内都尉，声甚於宁成。
上以为能，迁为中尉，吏民益凋敝。
尹齐木彊少文，豪恶吏伏匿而善吏不能为治，以故事多废，抵罪。
上复徙温舒为中尉，而杨仆以严酷为主爵都尉。
杨仆者，宜阳人也。以千夫为吏。
河南守案举以为能，迁为御史，使督盗贼关东。
治放尹齐，以为敢挚行。
稍迁至主爵都尉，列九卿。
天子以为能。南越反，拜为楼船将军，有功，封将梁侯。
为荀彘所缚。
居久之，病死。
而温舒复为中尉。为人少文，居廷惛惛不辩，至於中尉则心开。
translation: 
Serving Zhang Tang, Zhang Tang repeatedly praised him for his integrity and bravery, and assigned him to supervise the arrest of thieves. The people he wanted to kill did not avoid powerful and royal relatives.
He was promoted to captain of the pass and his reputation surpassed that of Ning Cheng.
The emperor thought he had talent and promoted him to lieutenant, while the lives of officials and civilians became even more difficult.
Yin Qi was rigid in doing things and did not pay attention to etiquette. The strong and vicious officials were hidden, and the kind officials could not handle political affairs effectively on their own, so most of the political affairs were neglected and sentenced.
The emperor changed Wang Wenshu's position to lieutenant, and Yang Pu became the lord captain by virtue of his harshness and cruelty.
Yang Pu was from Yiyang and became a minor official as a thousand-year-old man.
The governor of Henan evaluated and recommended his talents and promoted him to censor, and sent him to Guandong to supervise thieves.
He imitated Yin Qi in governing political affairs and was considered to be fierce and courageous in his actions.
Gradually he was promoted to lord and captain, ranking among the nine ministers.
The emperor believed that he had talent, and during the South Vietnam rebellion, he was appointed General Lou Chuan. Because of his military exploits, he was named General Lianghou.
Later he was bound by Xun Shen.
After a long time, he fell ill and died.
Wang Wenshu became a lieutenant again. He lacked refinement and was confused when working in the court. He did not know right from wrong. After he became a lieutenant, he became cheerful.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
督盗贼，素习关中俗，知豪恶吏，豪恶吏尽复为用，为方略。
吏苛察，盗贼恶少年投缿购告言奸，置伯格长以牧司奸盗贼。
温舒为人，善事有埶者；即无埶者，视之如奴。
有埶家，虽有奸如山，弗犯；无埶者，贵戚必侵辱。
舞文巧诋下户之猾，以焄大豪。
其治中尉如此。奸猾穷治，大抵尽靡烂狱中，行论无出者。
其爪牙吏虎而冠。
於是中尉部中中猾以下皆伏，有势者为游声誉，称治。
治数岁，其吏多以权富。
温舒击东越还，议有不中意者，坐小法抵罪免。
是时天子方欲作通天台而未有人，温舒请覆中尉脱卒，得数万人作。
上说，拜为少府。徙为右内史，治如其故，奸邪少禁。
坐法失官。复为右辅，行中尉事。
translation: 
He supervised the arrest of thieves. It turned out that he was familiar with the customs of Guanzhong and the powerful and vicious local officials. Therefore, the powerful and vicious officials were willing to help him and make suggestions for him.
Officials conducted strict surveillance, and thieves and vicious young men used the method of dropping letters and reporting boxes to buy information about crimes, and appointed Chief Berg to supervise evil people and thieves.
Wang Wenshu was a flatterer and was good at currying favor with powerful people. If they were powerless people, he would treat them like slaves.
Even if a powerful person has a mountain of evil things, he will not offend him. He must bully those who have no power, even noble relatives.
He played with the legal provisions and clever words to slander the cunning common people and intimidated the powerful.
This was how he handled political affairs when he was a lieutenant. Cunning people would definitely be held accountable for their crimes. Most of them were beaten to pieces and died in prison. No one who was found guilty came out of prison.
His capable men are like tigers wearing hats.
Therefore, the cunning people below the middle level under the jurisdiction of the lieutenant hid in hiding and did not dare to come out. The powerful people publicized his reputation and praised his achievements.
He ruled for several years, and many of his officials became rich as a result.
After Wang Wenshu returned from attacking Dongyue, his affairs were not in line with the emperor's will, and he was convicted and dismissed from office for violating a minor law.
At this time, the emperor was planning to build the Tower of Tongtian, but no one had yet taken charge of the matter. Wang Wenshu asked the lieutenant to assess those who had avoided military service and found tens of thousands of people who could participate in labor.
The emperor was very happy and appointed him as the Young Master, and then as the right internal official. He handled political affairs as before, and evil things were slightly prohibited.
Later, he broke the law and lost his official position. Soon he was appointed as the right assistant, acting as the lieutenant, and handled political affairs in the same way as before.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
如故操。岁馀，会宛军发，诏徵豪吏，温舒匿其吏华成，及人有变告温舒受员骑钱，他奸利事，罪至族，自杀。
其时两弟及两婚家亦各自坐他罪而族。
光禄徐自为曰： 悲夫，夫古有三族，而王温舒罪至同时而五族乎！
温舒死，家直累千金。
後数岁，尹齐亦以淮阳都尉病死，家直不满五十金。
所诛灭淮阳甚多，及死，仇家欲烧其尸，尸亡去归葬。
自温舒等以恶为治，而郡守、都尉、诸侯二千石欲为治者，其治大抵尽放温舒，而吏民益轻犯法，盗贼滋起。
南阳有梅免、白政，楚有殷中、杜少，齐有徐勃，燕赵之间有坚卢、范生之属。
translation: 
More than a year later, just as the army was setting out to conquer Dawan, the imperial court ordered the recruitment of powerful officials. Wang Wenshu hid his subordinate Huacheng. When someone reported that Wang Wenshu had accepted stolen money from the Zai'e cavalry and other bad things, and his crimes were serious enough to warrant genocide, he committed suicide.
At this time, his two younger brothers and two in-law families each committed other crimes and were exterminated.
Guanglu Xu Ziwei said: It's sad that in ancient times three tribes were exterminated, but Wang Wenshu's crime actually led to the destruction of five tribes at the same time!
After Wang Wenshu's death, the value of his family property accumulated to one thousand gold.
Many years later, Yin Qi also died of illness while serving as the captain of Huaiyang. The value of his family property was less than fifty gold.
He killed many people in Huaiyang. When he died, the resentful family wanted to burn his body, so his family members secretly brought his body back for burial.
Since Wang Wenshu used harsh and cruel methods to deal with political affairs, the county guards, captains, princes and officials of Erqianshi wanted to manage political affairs. Most of their governance methods followed Wang Wenshu's example. However, officials and people broke the law more and more easily, and the number of thieves increased.
In Nanyang there were Mei Fu and Baizheng, in Chu there were Yin Zhong and Du Shao, in Qi there were Xu Bo, and between Yan and Zhao there were Jian Lu and Fan Sheng.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
大群至数千人，擅自号，攻城邑，取库兵，释死罪，缚辱郡太守、都尉，杀二千石，为檄告县趣具食；小群以百数，掠卤乡里者，不可胜数也。
於是天子始使御史中丞、丞相长史督之。
犹弗能禁也，乃使光禄大夫范昆、诸辅都尉及故九卿张德等衣绣衣，持节，虎符发兵以兴击，斩首大部或至万馀级，及以法诛通饮食，坐连诸郡，甚者数千人。
数岁，乃颇得其渠率。
散卒失亡，复聚党阻山川者，往往而群居，无可柰何。
於是作 沈命法 ，曰群盗起不发觉，发觉而捕弗满品者，二千石以下至小吏主者皆死。
其後小吏畏诛，虽有盗不敢发，恐不能得，坐课累府，府亦使其不言。
故盗贼浸多，上下相为匿，以文辞避法焉。
translation: 
Large gangs numbered in the thousands, claiming the title of king without authorization, attacking cities, seizing weapons from arsenals, releasing prisoners sentenced to death, binding and insulting county governors and captains, killing officials of two thousand shi, issuing proclamations, and urging counties to prepare food for them. Small gangs numbering hundreds of people can rob villages in countless numbers.
So the emperor began to send Yushi Zhongcheng and Prime Minister Changshi to supervise the annihilation.
But they still couldn't stop it, so they sent Fan Kun, the Guanglu doctor, various auxiliary captains, and Zhang De, the former Jiuqing, to attack with troops wearing embroidered clothes and carrying talismans and tiger charms. They beheaded more than 10,000 people in large gangs, and killed those who brought food and drink to the rebels in accordance with the law. Several counties were executed, and thousands of people were killed.
A few years later, their leader was captured.
However, the scattered soldiers escaped and gathered into a party again, occupying dangerous mountains and rivers to cause trouble, often living in groups, and there was nothing they could do.
So the imperial court promulgated the "Senior Law", which said that a group of thieves occurred but the officials did not notice it, or they discovered it but did not capture the prescribed amount, and the relevant officials from two thousand dan to the smallest should be put to death.
After that, petty officials were afraid of being executed. Even if there were thieves, they did not dare to report them. They were afraid that they would not be caught, and they would be sentenced for breaking the law and incriminate the higher-level officials. The higher-level officials also asked them not to report it.
Therefore, there are more thieves, hiding from each other, playing with words, and evading legal sanctions.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
减宣者，杨人也。以佐史无害给事河东守府。
卫将军青使买马河东，见宣无害，言上，徵为大厩丞。
官事辨，稍迁至御史及中丞。
使治主父偃及治淮南反狱，所以微文深诋，杀者甚众，称为敢决疑。
数废数起，为御史及中丞者几二十岁。
王温舒免中尉，而宣为左内史。
其治米盐，事大小皆关其手，自部署县名曹实物，官吏令丞不得擅摇，痛以重法绳之。
居官数年，一切郡中为小治辨，然独宣以小致大，能因力行之，难以为经。
中废。为右扶风，坐怨成信，信亡藏上林中，宣使郿令格杀信，吏卒格信时，射中上林苑门，宣下吏诋罪，以为大逆，当族，自杀。
而杜周任用。
杜周者，南阳杜衍人。
义纵为南阳守，以为爪牙，举为廷尉史。
事张汤，汤数言其无害，至御史。
使案边失亡，所论杀甚众。
奏事中上意，任用，与减宣相编，更为中丞十馀岁。
其治与宣相放，然重迟，外宽，内深次骨。
宣为左内史，周为廷尉，其治大放张汤而善候伺。
translation: 
Jiaxuan was from Yangxian County. Because he was extremely capable as an assistant historian, he was transferred to the Hedong Prefecture.
General Wei Qing sent people to Hedong to buy horses. Seeing that Jiaxuan was extremely capable, he recommended him to the emperor and was recruited to the capital as the chief stable officer.
He was fair in his work as an official, and was gradually promoted to Yushi and Zhongcheng.
The emperor assigned him to handle the rebellion case of Zhufu Yan and King Huainan. He used subtle legal provisions to investigate and slander, so many people were killed and he was praised for his courage to judge difficult cases.
He was dismissed and appointed many times, and he served as an official of Yushi and Zhongcheng for almost twenty years.
Wang Wenshu was relieved of his post of lieutenant and was reduced to the position of internal history officer.
He manages rice and salt matters, no matter how big or small, he has to personally handle them. He arranges the property and utensils of each specific department in the county by himself. Officials such as the county magistrate and county magistrate are not allowed to change them without authorization, and even use heavy laws to control them.
In the few years since he was an official, other counties have done some small things, but only reducing propaganda can turn small things into big things, and he can implement them with his own strength. Of course, his method cannot be regarded as a normal method.
He was dismissed from office midway, and later became You Fufeng. Because he was resentful of his subordinate Chengxin, Chengxin fled and hid in Shanglin Garden. The magistrate of Yi County was sent to kill Chengxin. When officials and soldiers shot Chengxin, they shot at the gate of Shanglinyuan. Jiaxuan was handed over to the judge for sentencing. The judge believed that he had committed treason and sentenced him to genocide, so Jiaxuan committed suicide.
Du Zhou was appointed.
Du Zhou was a native of Du Yan, Nanyang.
Yi Zong became the governor of Nanyang and regarded Du Zhou as his right assistant and recommended him to be the official of the imperial court.
He served Zhang Tang. Zhang Tang repeatedly said that he was extremely talented and his official position was promoted to censor.
He was assigned to examine the cases of deserted border soldiers, and many of them were sentenced to death.
The things he reported were in line with the emperor's wishes, and he was appointed. He was succeeded by Tongjiaxuan, and was appointed Zhongcheng for more than ten years.
Du Zhou's management of political affairs was similar to that of reducing propaganda, but he was cautious in handling affairs, slow in making decisions, loose in appearance, and deep in heart.
Jia Xuan became Zuo Neishi, and Du Zhou became Tingwei. He imitated Zhang Tang in governing political affairs, and was good at spying on the emperor's intentions.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
上所欲挤者，因而陷之；上所欲释者，久系待问而微见其冤状。
客有让周曰： 君为天子决平，不循三尺法，专以人主意指为狱。
狱者固如是乎？
周曰： 三尺安出哉？
前主所是著为律，後主所是疏为令，当时为是，何古之法乎！
至周为廷尉，诏狱亦益多矣。
二千石系者新故相因，不减百馀人。
郡吏大府举之廷尉，一岁至千馀章。
章大者连逮证案数百，小者数十人；远者数千，近者数百里。
会狱，吏因责如章告劾，不服，以笞掠定之。
於是闻有逮皆亡匿。
狱久者至更数赦十有馀岁而相告言，大抵尽诋以不道以上。
廷尉及中都官诏狱逮至六七万人，吏所增加十万馀人。
translation: 
If the emperor wants to exclude someone, he will take advantage of the opportunity to frame him; if the emperor wants to release him, he will imprison him for a long time pending trial and secretly reveal his grievances.
Some of the disciples scolded Du Zhou, saying: "I decided the case fairly for the emperor. I did not follow the five-foot law, but decided the case based on the emperor's will."
Is this what a judge is supposed to do?
Du Zhou said: How did the three-foot law come about?
In the past, what the king thought was right would be written into laws, and what later kings thought was right would be written down into decrees. What is appropriate for the situation at that time is correct. Why should we follow ancient laws?
When Du Zhou became a court lieutenant, the emperor ordered more and more cases to be handled.
Officials of the 2,000 stone level were arrested, old and new, no less than 100 people.
County officials and higher-level officials send more than a thousand cases to the Wei in a year.
For each case reported in the memorial, hundreds of relevant witnesses would be arrested for large cases, and dozens of people would be arrested for small cases; these people were thousands of miles away and hundreds of miles away.
When the criminal was brought to the capital for interrogation, the officials asked the prisoner to confess as stated in the memorial. If he refused, he would be tortured with instruments of torture to finalize the case.
So when people heard about the arrests, they ran away and hid.
The cases dragged on for a long time, and even after several pardons, they would still be brought to trial more than ten years later. Most of them were framed for crimes ranging from treason to treason.
Tingwei and Zhongdu officials were ordered to arrest as many as 60,000 to 70,000 people, and subordinate officials arrested more than 100,000 more.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
周中废，後为执金吾，逐盗，捕治桑弘羊、卫皇后昆弟子刻深，天子以为尽力无私，迁为御史大夫。
家两子，夹河为守。
其治暴酷皆甚於王温舒等矣。
杜周初徵为廷史，有一马，且不全；及身久任事，至三公列，子孙尊官，家訾累数巨万矣。
太史公曰：自郅都、杜周十人者，此皆以酷烈为声。
然郅都伉直，引是非，争天下大体。
张汤以知阴阳，人主与俱上下，时数辩当否，国家赖其便。
赵禹时据法守正。
杜周从谀，以少言为重。
自张汤死後，网密，多诋严，官事浸以秏废。
九卿碌碌奉其官，救过不赡，何暇论绳墨之外乎！
translation: 
Du Zhou was dismissed from office midway, and later became Jinwu, hunting down thieves, arresting and investigating the sons of Sang Hongyang and Queen Wei's brothers. He was harsh and brutal. The emperor believed that he was dedicated and selfless, and was promoted to the imperial censor.
His two sons became governors of Hanoi and Henan respectively.
He governed politics more cruelly and harshly than Wang Wenshu and others.
When Du Zhou began to serve as court historian, he only had one horse and the equipment was not complete. When he became an official for a long time and became one of the three princes, his descendants all became high-ranking officials and his family's wealth accumulated to tens of thousands.
Tai Shigong said: The ten people from Zhidu to Duzhou are all famous for their cruelty and violence.
But Zhidu was strong and upright, argued about right and wrong, and fought for important principles that were beneficial to the country.
Zhang Tang liked him because he knew how to observe the emperor's joys, anger, sorrows, and joys. The emperor cooperated with him and debated the pros and cons of national affairs many times, and the country benefited from him.
Zhao Yu always adheres to the right path according to the law.
Du Zhou, on the other hand, obeys his superiors' wishes, flatters him, and regards talking less as an important principle.
Since Zhang Tang's death, the legal network has been tight, cases have been frequently slandered and harshly handled, and political affairs have gradually become corrupted and abandoned.
The officials of Jiuqing are doing nothing and only want to protect their official positions. It is too late for them to prevent mistakes from happening. How can they have time to study things other than law?


Chunk 27: 
original: 
然此十人中，其廉者足以为仪表，其污者足以为戒，方略教导，禁奸止邪，一切亦皆彬彬质有其文武焉。
虽惨酷，斯称其位矣。
至若蜀守冯当暴挫，广汉李贞擅磔人，东郡弥仆锯项，天水骆璧推咸，河东褚广妄杀，京兆无忌、冯翊殷周蝮鸷，水衡阎奉朴击卖请，何足数哉！
何足数哉！
translation: 
But among these ten people, the honest ones can serve as role models for people, and the dirty ones can serve as warnings for people. They plan strategies, teach people, prohibit evil, and do everything in a gentle and courteous manner, giving both kindness and power.
The enforcement of the law, although harsh, was commensurate with his duties.
As for Feng Dang, the governor of Shu County, who brutally tortured people, Li Zhen of Guanghan County dismembered the people without permission, and Mi Pu of Dong County sawed off people's necks. Luo Bizhui of Tianshui County beat the prisoner to force a confession and settled the case, Chu Guang of Hedong County killed the people indiscriminately, Wuji of Jingzhao, Feng Xu and Yinzhou were cruel, and Yan Feng, the captain of Shuiheng, tortured and forced the prisoner to pay for forgiveness. How can it be worth mentioning!
Nothing worth mentioning!


