Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 2, 2, 2, 5, 8, 11, 13]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
五礼之别，三曰宾，盖朝宗、觐遇、会同之制是也。
自周以下，其礼弥繁。
自秦灭学之后，旧典残缺。汉兴，始使叔孙通制礼，参用先代之仪，然亦往往改异焉。汉仪有正会礼，正旦，夜漏未尽七刻，钟鸣受贺，公侯以下执贽夹庭，二千石以上升殿称万岁，然后作乐宴飨。
魏武帝都鄴，正会文昌殿，用汉仪，又设百华灯。
晋氏受命，武帝更定元会仪，《咸宁注》是也。
傅玄《元会赋》曰： 考夏后之遗训，综殷周之典艺，采秦汉之旧仪，定元正之嘉会。
此则兼采众代可知矣。
《咸宁注》： 先正一日，有司各宿设。
夜漏未尽十刻，群臣集到，庭燎起火。
上贺，起，谒报，又贺皇后。
还，从云龙东中华门入，诣东阁下，便坐。
漏未尽七刻，百官及受贽郎官以下至计吏皆入立其次，其陛卫者如临轩仪。
漏未尽五刻，谒者、仆射、大鸿胪各各奏群臣就位定。
漏尽，侍中奏外办。
皇帝出，钟鼓作，百官皆拜伏。
太常导皇帝升御坐，钟鼓止，百官起。
大鸿胪跪奏 请朝贺 。
掌礼郎赞 皇帝延王登 。
大鸿胪跪赞 籓王臣某等奉白璧各一，再拜贺 。
太常报 王悉登 。
谒者引上殿，当御坐。
皇帝兴，王再拜。
皇帝坐，复再拜。
跪置璧御坐前，复再拜。
成礼讫，谒者引下殿，还故位。
掌礼郎赞 皇帝延太尉等 。
于是公、特进、匈奴南单于、金紫将军当大鸿胪西，中二千石、二千石、千石、六百石当大行令西，皆北面伏。
鸿胪跪赞 太尉、中二千石等奉璧、皮、帛、羔、雁、雉，再拜贺 。
太常赞 皇帝延公等登 。
掌礼引公至金紫将军上殿。
皇帝兴，皆再拜。
皇帝坐，又再拜。
跪置璧皮帛御坐前，复再拜。
translation: 
Among the five types of etiquette, the third type refers to the etiquette for guests, including meetings with emperors and gatherings of princes. Since the Zhou Dynasty, the etiquette system for sending people has become more and more complicated.
Since the Qin Dynasty burned books and harassed Confucian scholars, the laws and regulations of the past dynasties were incomplete.
With the rise of the Han Dynasty, Shusun Tong began to be sent to formulate etiquette, referring to the etiquette of the previous generations, but there were often changes. There is a formal ceremony in Modai etiquette. On the first day of the first lunar month, at less than seven quarters of the night, the bell rang to accept gifts. Dukes and princes stood on both sides of the court with gifts. Officials with a salary of more than two thousand dan went to the palace to shout long live, and then played music and feasted.
When Emperor Wu of Wei established his capital in Ye, he held a formal ceremony in Wenchang Hall, using the etiquette of the Han Dynasty, and set up hundreds of lanterns.
The Jin Dynasty accepted the mandate of heaven, and Emperor Wu revised the etiquette of the first lunar month of the first lunar month. This is what the "Xianning Notes" talks about.
Fu Xuan's "Yuan Hui Li" said: After examining the dispatch training of the Xia Dynasty, integrating the regulations of the Yin, Shang and Zhou dynasties, and adopting the old rituals of the Qin and Han Dynasties, we formulated the etiquette for the first lunar month of the first lunar month.
This shows how eclectic it is.
"Xianning Note": On the day before the first day of the first lunar month, the relevant officials should keep their duties.
Less than ten minutes into the night, all the officials gathered and the torches in the courtyard were lit.
He went to court to congratulate, stood up, reported, and congratulated the queen.
After retreating, enter through the Yunlong Shuzhonghua Gate and sit in the wing in front of the Cambodian Gate.
At less than seven quarters of the night, all the officials, including the Langguan who received the gift, including the officials in charge of documents, stood in order, and the guards on the steps were like a ceremony for the emperor to arrive in front of the palace.
The timer was less than five quarters, and officials such as Ye Zhe, Pu She, and Da Honglu reported to the ministers that they were in their places.
The timer ran out, and the waiter announced that everything was ready outside.
The emperor came out, bells and drums played music, and officials at all levels knelt down to worship.
Taichang led the emperor to ascend the throne, the bells and drums stopped, and officials at all levels stood up.
Da Honglu knelt down to report and ask for congratulations.
The master of ceremonies sang praises to the emperor and invited him to the palace.
Da Honglu knelt down and sang praises. The vassal king's ministers presented a piece of white jade to each other and paid two obeisances to congratulate him.
Taichang informed Wangdu to go to the palace.
The visitor led them to the hall and sat down facing the emperor.
The emperor stood and the king bowed twice.
The emperor sat down and bowed twice again.
Kneeling, he placed the jade in front of the throne and bowed twice again.
After the ceremony, the audience led them down the hall and back to their original seats.
The chief minister sang praises and the emperor invited the Taiwei and others.
So Gong, Tejin, Xiongnu Nanchanyu, and General Jinzi faced the west of Dahonglu, and the officials with two thousand stones, two thousand stones, thousand stones, and six hundred stones faced the west of Daxingling, and they all knelt down facing north.
Honglu sang praises, and Taiwei, Zhongerqianshi and others presented jade, fur, silk, lambs, wild geese, and wild ducks, and paid two obeisances to congratulate him.
Taichang sang praises to the emperor and invited the Duke and others to come to the palace.
The Master of Ceremonies guided the Duke to General Jinzi and went to the palace.
The emperor stood and all the ministers knelt down twice.
The emperor sat down and the ministers bowed twice more.
Kneeling, he placed the jade, fur and silk in front of the emperor's throne and bowed twice again.
summary:
Among the five types of etiquette, the third pertains to guest rituals, including meetings with emperors and gatherings of princes. Since the Zhou Dynasty, the etiquette system for sending envoys became increasingly complex. After the Qin Dynasty's book burning and harassment of Confucian scholars, laws and regulations from past dynasties were incomplete. With the rise of the Han Dynasty, Shusun Tong began formulating etiquette, referencing previous generations but often making changes. A formal ceremony was held on the first day of the first lunar month, where bells rang to accept gifts, dukes and princes stood with offerings, and officials shouted long live before music and feasting. Emperor Wu of Wei held a similar ceremony in Wenchang Hall, using Han Dynasty etiquette and setting up hundreds of lanterns. The Jin Dynasty revised this ceremony, as documented in the "Xianning Notes" and Fu Xuan's "Yuan Hui Li," which integrated rituals from Xia, Yin, Shang, Zhou, Qin, and Han dynasties. The "Xianning Note" details the ceremony: on the day before the first day of the first lunar month, officials gathered, torches were lit, and they entered the court to congratulate the queen. At less than seven quarters of the night, officials stood in order, and the emperor arrived with bells and drums. Officials knelt and worshipped, and the emperor ascended the throne. The master of ceremonies sang praises, and vassal kings presented jade, bowing twice. The emperor stood and bowed, then sat and bowed again. After the ceremony, the king returned to his seat. The emperor then invited the Taiwei and others, who presented jade, fur, silk, and animals, bowing twice. The ceremony continued with gifts distributed, music played, and the emperor entering a chariot. Guests from various ethnic groups entered, bowed, and sat. The visitor guided the king to pour longevity wine, and music played as ministers bowed. After drinking, they bowed again. The ceremony included distributing wine, playing songs, and serving meals. After the banquet, the ministers left the palace.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
然则，夜漏未尽七刻谓之晨贺。昼漏上三刻更出，百官奉寿酒，谓之昼会。
别置女乐三十人于黄帐外，奏房中之歌。
江左多虞，不复晨贺。
夜漏未尽十刻，开宣阳门，至平旦始开殿门，昼漏上五刻，皇帝乃出受贺。
皇太子出会者，则在三恪下王公上。
正旦元会，设白兽樽于殿庭，樽盖上施白兽，若有能献直言者，则发此樽饮酒。
案礼，白兽樽乃杜举之遗式也，为白兽盖，是后代所为，示忌惮也。
魏制，籓王不得朝觐。
魏明帝时，有朝者皆由特恩，不得以为常。
及泰始中，有司奏： 诸侯之国，其王公以下入朝者，四方各为二番，三岁而周，周则更始。
若临时有故，却在明年。
明年来朝之后，更满三岁乃复朝，不得违本数。
朝礼皆亲执璧，如旧朝之制。
不朝之岁，各遣卿奉聘。
奏可。
江左王侯不之国，其有受任居外，则同方伯刺史二千石之礼，亦无朝聘之制，故此礼遂废。
汉以高帝十月定秦，且为岁首。
至武帝，虽改用夏正，然每月朔朝，至于十月朔，犹常飨会。
其仪，夜漏未尽七刻，受贺及贽。公侯璧，中二千石、二千石羔，千石、六百石雁，四百石以下雉。
三公奉璧上殿御坐前，北面。
太常赞曰 皇帝为君兴 。
三公伏。
皇帝坐，乃前进璧。
百官皆贺，二千石以上上殿称万岁，举觞，御食，司徒奉羹，大司农奉饭，奏食举之乐。
百官受赐，宴飨，大作乐，如元正之仪。
魏晋则冬至日受方国及百僚称贺，因小会。
其仪亚于献岁之旦。
古者帝王莫不巡狩。
魏文帝值天下三分，方隅多事，皇舆亟动，役无宁岁，盖应时之务，非旧章也。
明帝凡三东巡狩，所过存问高年，恤疾苦，或赐谷帛，有古巡幸之风焉。
齐王正始元年，巡洛阳县，赐高年力田各有差。
及武帝泰始四年，诏刺史二千石长吏曰： 古之王者，以岁时巡狩方岳，其次则二伯述职，不然则行人顺省。
translation: 
Then when the timer reaches less than seven quarters at night, it is called morning congratulations, and when the timer reaches three quarters during the day, it is called a day meeting when hundreds of officials serve longevity wine.
In addition, thirty female musicians were arranged to play Chinese music outside the yellow tent.
The Yangtze River is unsettled, and there are no more morning greetings.
When the timer reaches less than ten quarters at night, the Xuanyang Gate is opened, and the palace door is not opened until early in the morning. When the timer reaches five quarters during the day, the emperor does not come out to accept congratulations.
The people the Crown Prince came out to meet included people who were descendants of the previous three dynasties and were named princes and nobles above the prince level.
During the New Year's Day gathering, a wine vessel called a white tiger bottle was set up in the palace lobby, with a white tiger painted on the cover. If someone could speak out and give advice, he would open the bottle and drink.
According to the etiquette, the white tiger bottle is left over from the ritual of toasting after the banquet. The white tiger cover is made into a white tiger bottle and is a matter for future generations, which expresses fearlessness.
Under the system of the Wei Dynasty, kings of vassal states could not meet the emperor.
During the reign of Emperor Wei Ming, those who came to court had special permission and could not be regarded as routine.
During the Taishi period, the relevant officials reported: From all the princes and countries, those who came to the palace to pay homage to the princes and below were to go to the east, west, north, and south twice for a round. Three years later, there was one round, and after one week, it started again.
If something happens temporarily, the meeting will be continued in the second year.
After the second court meeting, you can only come to the DPRK again after three years, and you cannot violate the regulations on the number of court visits.
The etiquette for court meetings is to hold the jade in person, just like the old court system.
In the years when they are not in court, they each send their ministers to visit and pay their respects.
The emperor is ready to play.
The princes east of the Yangtze River did not go to their own country. Some of them accepted appointments and lived in other places. Just like the etiquette of two thousand stones for the chief of a prince or the governor, there was no system for paying court and greetings, so this etiquette was invalid.
In the Han Dynasty, because Emperor Gao pacified the Qin Dynasty in October, we tentatively set October as the beginning of the year.
When Emperor Wu arrived, although the first month of the Xia Dynasty was adopted as the beginning of the year, there were still banquets on the first day of every month, and on the first day of October, there were still banquets.
The etiquette of the banquet is that within seven quarters of the night, congratulations and gifts are received. The princes present jade, two thousand stones for lambs, two thousand stones for geese, and four hundred stones or less for wild geese.
The third prince went up to the palace with the jade in his hands and went to the throne, facing north.
Taichang announced that the emperor stood up for the three princes.
The third prince fell to his knees.
The emperor sat down and stepped forward to offer the jade.
All the officials congratulated him, and more than two thousand stones went to the palace to shout long live and raise their glasses. When the meal is served, the apprentice holds the soup, and the big farmer holds the rice, and plays music to serve the meal.
The officials accepted the rewards, the banquet began, and music was played loudly, just like the ceremony on the first day of the first lunar month.
Wei and Jin received congratulations from the four princes and officials at all levels on the winter solstice, and held small court gatherings.
The scale of court etiquette is second only to New Year's Day.
In ancient times, there were no emperors who did not patrol the territory.
During the reign of Emperor Wei Wen, the world was divided into three parts, and border wars were frequent. The emperor's chariots were frequently dispatched, and no year was peaceful. They were probably dealing with immediate events, and were not based on the laws of the previous dynasties.
Emperor Ming visited the east three times in total. He visited the old people and provided relief to the poor in the places he passed. Sometimes he gave grain and silk as rewards, just like the ancient emperors during their inspection tours.
In the first year of his reign, Man Gong visited Luoyang County and gave different rewards to the elderly and local farm officials.
In the fourth year of Emperor Wu's reign, he issued an edict to the two thousand chief officials of the governor, saying: In ancient times, emperors inspected the mountains in all directions every year, and then the leaders of the two princes in the east and west reported their duties, or else they sent envoys to inspect.
summary:
The Yangtze River region was unsettled, so morning greetings ceased. The crown prince met with descendants of previous dynasties and nobles. During New Year's gatherings, a white tiger bottle was set up for those who dared to speak out. Under the Wei Dynasty, vassal kings could not meet the emperor, except during Emperor Wei Ming's reign. During the Taishi period, officials reported that princes and nobles should pay court visits every three years, with temporary meetings allowed. The etiquette for court meetings involved holding jade, similar to the old system. In years without court visits, ministers were sent to pay respects. The emperor approved this. However, princes east of the Yangtze River did not return to their own countries, and some accepted appointments elsewhere, rendering this etiquette invalid. In the Han Dynasty, October was tentatively set as the beginning of the year due to Emperor Gao's pacification of Qin. Emperor Wu later adopted the first month as the beginning of the year but still held banquets on the first day of October and the first day of each month. The banquet etiquette involved receiving congratulations and gifts at night, with princes presenting jade and officials presenting animals. The third prince offered jade to the throne, and the emperor stood for them. Officials congratulated, and those with high salaries shouted long live and raised glasses. Music played during meals, similar to the first day of the first lunar month. Wei and Jin held small court gatherings on the winter solstice, second in scale to New Year's Day. Ancient emperors patrolled their territories, but during Emperor Wei Wen's reign, border wars prevented this. Emperor Ming visited the east three times, providing relief to the poor and rewarding the elderly. In the first year of his reign, he visited Luoyang County and gave rewards. In the fourth year of Emperor Wu's reign, he issued an edict to officials, emphasizing the importance of inspections and sending envoys to investigate political affairs and the people's sufferings. The new etiquette for patrolling mountains, offering sacrifices, and reporting on palace construction remained the same as in the past. When princes met the emperor, they set up flags to distinguish their ranks, as per the ancient ritual. However, this etiquette was not implemented until the end of the Jin Dynasty.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
济岂谓世无管仲，以吾有桓公登泰山之志乎！
吾不欺天也。
济之所言，华则华矣，非助我者也。
公卿侍中尚书常侍省之而已，勿复有所议，亦不须答诏也。
天子虽距济议，而实使高堂隆草封禅之仪，以天下未一，不欲便行大礼，会隆卒，不复行之。
及武帝平吴，混一区宇，太康元年九月庚寅，尚书令卫瓘、尚书左仆射山涛、右仆射魏舒、尚书刘寔、司空张华等奏曰： 臣闻肇自生灵，则有后辟，年载之数，莫之能纪。
立德济世，挥扬仁风，以登封泰山者七十有四家，其谥号可知者十有四焉。
沈沦寂寞，曾无遗声者，不可胜记。
大晋之德，始自重黎，实佐颛顼，至于夏商，世序天地。
其在于周，不失其绪。
金德将升，世济明圣，外平蜀汉，海内归心，武功之盛，实由文德。
至于陛下，受命践阼，弘建大业，群生仰流。
惟独江湖沅湘之表，凶桀负固，历代不宾。
神谋独断，命将出讨，兵威暂加，数旬荡定。
羁其鲸鲵，赦其罪逆，云覆雨施，八方来同，声教所被，达于四极。
虽黄轩遐征，大禹远略，周之奕世，何以尚今！
若夫玄石素文，底号前载，象以数表，言以事告，虽古《河图洛书》之徵，不是过也。
宜宣大典，礼中岳，封泰山，禅梁父，发德号，明至尊，享天休，笃黎庶，勒千载之表，播流后之声，俾百世之下，莫不兴起。
斯帝王之盛业，天人之至望也。
诏曰： 今逋寇虽殄，外则障塞有警，内则百姓未宁，此盛德之事，所未议也。
瓘等又奏曰： 今东渐于海，西被流沙，大漠之阴，日南北户，莫不通属，芒芒禹迹，今实过之。
translation: 
Does it mean that there is no such thing in the world, but I have the ambition to climb Tongshan Mountain!
I dare not deceive God.
What Jiang Ji said is beautiful, but it doesn't help me.
It is enough for the Minister of Public Affairs, Chang Shu, to read it. There is no need to discuss the matter any more, and there is no need to reply to this edict.
Although the emperor rejected Jiang Ji's memorial, he actually sent Zhitanglong to draft the etiquette of the sealing ceremony. Since the world was not unified, he did not want to hold a grand ceremony soon. When Gao Tanglong died, the matter was dropped.
When Emperor Wu pacified Wu and unified the country, in the ninth month of the first year of Taikang, Shangshu ordered Wei Xuan, Shangshu Zuopushe Shantao, Shangshu Youpushe Wei Shu, Shangshu Liu Sai, Sikong Zhanghua and others to report: We heard that since the beginning of mankind, there have been princes, but the number of years cannot be recorded.
To establish virtue, save the world, and promote benevolence and righteousness, there are seventy-four families who have climbed Mount Tai for this purpose, and there are fourteen people who know their names.
Their names and deeds were lost, and there were too many to remember without leaving any reputation.
The virtues of the Jin Dynasty began with Chong Li, who assisted Zhuan Xu, and by the Xia and Shang Dynasties, a system of inheritance from generation to generation was established in heaven and earth.
In the Zhou Dynasty, there was no stopping building meritorious deeds.
Jin's virtue increased, and the people in the world helped the Mingsheng, and the Shu Han was pacified externally. Within the four seas, people's hearts turned to Jin, and military victory actually relied on virtue.
When he arrived at your majesty, he was appointed by fate to receive the throne and expand his great cause. The people admired and followed him.
Only along the Yangtze River, Dongting Lake, Yuan River, and Xiang River, there are thugs who have relied on natural dangers and have been disobedient for generations.
His Majesty's miraculous strategic judgment ordered the army to go out for a crusade. As soon as the army showed its power, it was wiped out and pacified in dozens of days.
Binding evil people and pardoning their transgressions, clouds flowing, rain spreading, gathering around us from all directions, the influence of reputation and education reaches all parts of the world.
Even Huang Xuan's conquests, Yu the Great's far-reaching strategies, and the prosperity of the Zhou Dynasty could not exceed today's!
As for the writings on stone tablets that promote the way of saints, they are famous for their records in previous generations. They use numbers to represent objects and events to illustrate speeches. Even the ancient Hetu Luoshu does not show any signs beyond this.
We should hold grand ceremonies, salute at Zhongyue, sacrifice to heaven and earth at Mount Tai and Liangfu, issue orders to promote virtue, clarify the most noble position, enjoy blessings from heaven, treat the people sincerely, carve a mark for thousands of years, and spread a reputation that will be passed down to future generations, so that no one will not be inspired by it for a hundred generations.
This is the grand cause of the emperor and the greatest wish of God and man.
The edict said: Although the fleeing enemy invaders have been eliminated, there is still an alarm for the external blockage, and the people inside are still uneasy. There should be no discussion about the deeds of great virtue.
Wei Cui and others reported again: "Now it reaches the sea and the desert in the west. In the north of the desert, there is no one in the north and south who does not come to submit. The vast territory of Dayu's time has indeed been passed."
summary:
The ritual system included sacrifices to heaven and earth. The emperor patrolled famous mountains, burned firewood to worship heaven, and reported success. During the Taihe period of Emperor Wei Ming, Jiang Ji reported that the emperor's grand ceremonies prioritized patrols and sacrifices. He argued that since ancient times, dynastic changes involved climbing Mount Tai and writing down names. He urged the emperor to perform the sealing ceremony, but the emperor declined, citing humility and the need to unify the world. Later, Emperor Wu pacified Wu and unified the country. Officials urged him to perform the sealing ceremony, but he repeatedly declined, citing the need for peace and stability. After several memorials, the emperor finally refused, stating that the time was not right.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
是以武王仰寻前绪，遂奉天命，追崇祖考，明不以子尊加父母也。
案《礼》 幼不诔长，贱不诔贵 ，幼贱犹不得表彰长贵，况敢锡之以荣命邪！
汉祖感家令之言而尊太公，荀悦以为孝莫大于严父，而以子贵加之父母，家令之言过矣。
爰逮孝章，不上贾贵人以尊号，而厚其金宝币帛，非子道之不至也，盖圣典不可逾也。
当春秋时，庶子承国，其母得为夫人。
不审直子命母邪，故当告于宗祧以先君之命命之邪？
窃见诏书，当临轩拜授贵人为皇太妃。
今称皇帝策命命贵人，斯则子爵母也。
贵人北面拜受，斯则母臣子也。
天尊地卑，名位定矣，母贵子贱，人伦序矣。
虽欲加崇贵人，而实卑之；虽显明国典，而实废之。
且人主举动，史必书之。
如当载之方策，以示后世，无乃不顺乎！
窃谓应告显宗之庙，称贵人仁淑之至，宜加殊礼，以酬鞠育之惠。
奉先灵之命，事不在己。
妃后虽是配君之名，然自后以下有夫人九嫔，无称妃焉。
桓公谓宜进号太夫人，非不允也。
如以夫人为少，可言皇太夫人。
皇，君也，君太夫人于名礼顺矣。
帝特下诏拜皇太妃。
三月丙辰，使兼太保王恬授玺绶仪服，一如太后。
又诏曰： 朝臣不为太妃敬，为合礼不？
太常江逌议： 位号不极，不应尽敬。
孝武追崇会稽郑太妃为简文太后，诏问 当开墓不 。
王珣答： 据三祖追赠及中宗敬后，并不开墓位，更为茔域制度耳。
translation: 
Therefore, King Wu admired and pursued the achievements of previous generations, so according to the destiny, he added a king's title to respect his ancestors, indicating that it was not because of the son's honor that it affected the parents.
According to "Li", the young cannot give eulogies to praise the elders, the lowly ones cannot make eulogies to praise the noble ones, and the young and lowly people cannot commend the older and noble ones, so how dare they give them honorary titles!
Mozu revered the Grand Duke because he understood the words in the family motto. Xun Yue believed that there was no greater filial piety than respecting the father, so he applied the son's noble status to his parents. The words in the family motto were wrong.
As for the filial piety chapter, you don't need to buy a noble person with a distinguished title, but give more gold, silver, coins, silk and silk. It's not that a son fails to fulfill his filial piety, it's because the saint's code cannot be exceeded.
In the Spring and Autumn Period, when a concubine inherited the throne, his mother could be called Madam.
Is it possible that we should not be cautious when conferring titles on mothers because of our sons? Should we report to the ancestors of the ancestral temple and grant titles based on the orders of the previous monarchs?
I think the edict should go to court and confer the honorable lady as the Crown Princess.
Nowadays, when the emperor orders nobles to be conferred titles, it means that the son is conferring titles on his mother.
If a nobleman faces north and kneels before receiving a title, it means that the mother has become her son's minister.
Heaven is superior and earth is inferior, this is stipulated by fame and position, mother is noble and son is humble, this is the order of human relations.
Although it is intended to make the noble status higher, it actually makes her lower; although the national code is clarified, it is actually abolished.
Moreover, every move of the king must be recorded by the historian.
If the recorded policies and strategies were shown to future generations, it would probably not go well!
I think it should be reported to the temple of Sutra, saying that noble people are extremely benevolent and virtuous, and should use special etiquette to repay the kindness of upbringing.
According to the order of the ancestor's spirit, the matter does not depend on oneself.
Although the concubine and empress are the names of the monarch's spouses, there are wives and nine concubines starting from the empress, and none of them are called concubines.
It is not unfair for Duke Huan to say that the title should be promoted to Tai Fu.
If you think the title of Madam is not enough, you can call her the Crown Princess.
Huang means the king, and the king and his wife both make sense in terms of name and etiquette.
The emperor specially sent a letter to Shao to worship the imperial concubine.
On Bingchen in March, Wang Tian, ​​the eunuch and Taibao, was awarded the jade seal ribbon and ceremonial clothes, which were exactly the same as those of the Queen Mother.
He also issued an edict saying: The court minister did not show respect to the concubine. Is this in line with etiquette?
Taichang Jiang Di commented: If the status and title are not the highest, the greatest respect should not be paid.
Emperor Xiaowu posthumously awarded Concubine Zheng of Kuaiji the title of Empress Dowager Jianwen to show his respect, and issued an edict asking whether a tomb should be established.
Wang Shi replied: According to the three generations of ancestors who followed Zhongzong Jing, no tombs were opened, so we just need to change the cemetery system.
summary:
Emperor Ai wanted to honor Princess Zhang, but officials debated the etiquette. Some argued that a son should not knight his father, while others cited historical precedents. The discussion concluded that the emperor should not confer titles on his mother, as it would violate the order of human relations. The emperor eventually issued an edict to worship the imperial concubine, granting her the same status as the Queen Mother. Further debates arose about the etiquette for the crown prince, with some arguing that he should call himself a minister, while others disagreed. The emperor ultimately decided to follow the old system.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
其仪，乘舆御戎路，白马硃鬣，躬执弩射牲，牲以鹿麛。
太宰令谒者各一人载以获车，驰送陵庙。
还宫，遣使者赍束帛以赐武官。
武官肄兵，习战阵之仪。
斩牲之礼，名曰刘。
兵官皆肄孙吴兵法六十四阵。
既还，公卿已下陈阳前街，乘舆到，公卿已下拜，天子下车，公卿亲识颜色，然后还宫。
古语曰在车下车，则惟此时施行。
汉世率以为常。
至献帝建安二十一年，魏国有司奏： 古四时讲武，皆于农隙。
汉西京承秦制，三时不讲，惟十月都讲。
今金革未偃，士众素习，可无四时讲武。
但以立秋择吉日大朝车骑，号曰阅兵，上合礼名，下承汉制。
奏可。
是冬，阅兵，魏王亲执金鼓以令进退。
延康元年，魏文帝为魏王。
是年六月立秋，阅兵于东郊，公卿相仪，王御华盖，亲令金鼓之节。
魏明帝太和元年十月，又阅兵。
武帝泰始四年九月，咸守元年，太康四年，六年冬，皆自临宣武观，大阅众军，然不自令进退也。
自惠帝以后，其礼遂废。
元帝太兴四年，诏左右卫及诸营教习，依大习仪作雁羽仗。
成帝咸和中，诏内外诸军戏兵于南郊之场，故其地因名斗场。
自后籓镇桓、庾诸方伯往往阅习，然朝廷无事焉。
汉魏故事，遣将出征，符节郎授节钺于朝堂。
其后荀顗等所定新礼，遣将，御临轩，尚书受节钺，依古兵书跪而推毂之义也。
translation: 
The ceremony was that the emperor drove a military chariot with a white horse and red hyenas, and personally held a crossbow to shoot the sacrifices, and the sacrifices were young deer.
The Dazai Ling and the visitor each loaded the deer into the car and quickly took it to the mausoleum and the ancestral temple.
Returning to the palace, he sent envoys to deliver silk and silk rewards to the military attachés.
The ceremony of military attaches training and practicing battle formations.
The etiquette of beheading sacrifices is called Chu Liu.
The officers and soldiers all practiced the sixty-four formations of Sun Wu's Art of War.
After the troops were withdrawn, the officials below the duke lined up in Luoyang's front street. The emperor arrived. The officials below the duke bowed down and bowed. The emperor got off the car. The duke saw the emperor's face and then returned to the palace.
There is a saying in ancient times that says to get off the car, so it is only implemented at this time.
This was probably a common ritual in the Han Dynasty.
In the 21st year of Emperor Xian's reign, Wei officials reported: In ancient times, martial arts were practiced throughout the four seasons during the breaks in farming.
Modai Xijing inherited the system of the Qin Dynasty. There were no martial arts exercises in three seasons, and there was only a martial arts examination in October.
Nowadays, the war has not subsided, and the soldiers and civilians are familiar with military affairs, so there is no need for drills in all seasons.
However, an auspicious day was chosen at the beginning of autumn to review the carriages and soldiers on a large scale. It was called a military parade. On the one hand, it conformed to the etiquette name, and on the other hand, it inherited the system of the Han Dynasty.
The memorial was approved.
This winter, during the military parade, the King of Wei personally mastered the golden button war drum to direct the advance and retreat.
In the first year of Yankang, Emperor Wen of Wei became King of Wei.
At the beginning of autumn in the sixth month of the year of sending, there was a military parade in the suburbs of Shu. The ministers presided over the ceremony and praised it. The king of Wei used a canopy for his chariot and personally directed the rhythm of the golden war drum.
In October of the first year of Taihe, Emperor Wei Ming, there was another military parade.
In September of the fourth year of Taishi, the first year of Xianning, the fourth year of Taikang, and the winter of the sixth year, Emperor Wu visited Xuanwu Temple in person and reviewed the troops on a large scale, but did not personally direct the advance or retreat.
After Emperor Hui, this etiquette was abandoned.
In the fourth year of Wutong Youxing, Shaoshu ordered the left and right guards and various military camps to practice and make wild goose feather battles according to the ceremony of Da Xi.
During the Xianhe reign of Emperor Cheng, Shaoshu ordered all internal and external armies to compete in an open field in the southern suburbs, so that place was called the fighting field.
From then on, the local governors Huan, Yu and other leaders often conducted military parades and drills, but the imperial court no longer had such things.
The precedent of the Han and Wei Dynasties is that when generals are sent out to fight, Fu Jielang will confer Fu Jie and ax iron in the court hall.
Later, the new etiquette formulated by Xunjie and others was to send generals, the emperor personally visited the palace, and the minister awarded the talisman, ax and cymbal. This was based on the ancient military book where the emperor appointed generals and had to kneel and push carts for them as a grand courtesy.
summary:
The fourth type of etiquette is military, used to achieve peace abroad and tranquility at home. In the Han Dynasty, military exercises were held on the day of the Beginning of Autumn, with the emperor personally shooting sacrifices. The ceremony included training in battle formations and beheading sacrifices. In the 21st year of Emperor Xian's reign, Wei officials proposed a military parade in autumn, which was approved. During the Wei Dynasty, military parades were held, but after Emperor Hui, this etiquette was abandoned. Later, local governors conducted military parades, but the imperial court no longer did so.

Chunk 13: 
original: 
穆帝、孝武将冠，皆先以币告庙，讫又庙见也。
惠帝之为太子，将冠，武帝临轩，使兼司徒高阳王珪加冠，兼光禄大夫屯骑校尉华暠赞冠。
江左诸帝将冠，金石宿设，百僚陪位。
又豫于殿上铺大床，御府令奉冕、帻、簪导、衮服以授侍中常侍，太尉加帻，太保加冕。
将加冕，太尉跪读祝文曰： 令月吉日，始加元服。
皇帝穆穆，思弘衮职。
钦若昊天，六合是式。
率遵祖考，永永无极。
眉寿惟祺，介兹景福。
加冕讫，侍中系玄紞，侍中脱帝绛纱服，加衮服冕冠。
事毕，太保率群臣奉觞上寿，王公以下三称万岁乃退。
案《仪注》，一加帻冕而已。
泰始十年，南宫王承年十五，依旧应冠。
有司议奏： 礼，十五成童，国君十五而生子，以明可冠之宜。
又汉魏遣使冠诸王，非古典。
于是制诸王十五而冠，不复加使命。
王彪之云，《礼》、《传》冠皆在庙。
案成帝既加元服，车驾出拜于太庙，以告成也。
盖亦犹拟在庙之仪。
魏齐王正始四年，立皇后甄氏，其仪不存。
武帝咸宁二年，临轩，遣太尉贾充策立皇后杨氏，纳悼后也。
因大赦，赐王公以下各有差，百僚上礼。
太康八年，有司奏： 婚礼纳徵，大婚用玄纁束帛，加珪，马二驷。
王侯玄纁束帛，加璧，乘马。
大夫用玄纁束帛，加羊。
古者以皮马为庭实，天子加以谷珪，诸侯加大璋，可依周礼改璧用璋，其羊雁酒米玄纁如故。
诸侯婚礼，加纳采、告期、亲迎各帛五匹，及纳徵马四匹，皆令夫家自备。
translation: 
When Emperor Mu and Emperor Xiaowu were about to perform the crowning ceremony, they would first offer silk to the ancestral temple, and then pay homage to the ancestral temple again after the crowning ceremony.
When Emperor Hui became the crown prince, the crowning ceremony was to be held. Emperor Wu came to the palace in person and sent Sima Gui, the Prince of Gaoyang, who was also the situ, to crown the crown prince. Hua Yu, the captain of the Tunqi School, who was also the Guanglu doctor, was the master of ceremonies for the crowning ceremony.
Several emperors from Jiang Shu will perform the crowning ceremony, with musical instruments set up in advance and hundreds of officials accompanying them.
A big bed was laid in the palace in advance, and the royal order handed the crown, turban, hairpin, and uniform to the attendants. The Taiwei was responsible for tying the turban, and the Taibao crowned the king.
When the coronation was about to take place, the Taiwei knelt down and read the congratulations: "It's an auspicious month and auspicious day, the coronation begins."
The emperor respectfully thought about the great imperial cause.
Respect Wu Tian and imitate the four directions of heaven and earth.
Everything follows the ancestors and there is no end.
May you live a long and prosperous life, may Sasuke be blessed.
After the coronation, the attendant wore a black hatband. The attendant took off the emperor's crimson gauze clothes and put on the royal robes and crown.
When the matter was over, the Taibao led the ministers to toast the birthday, and everyone below the princes shouted long live three times before retreating.
According to the "Etiquette Notes", it is just a turban and crown added once.
In the tenth year of Taishi, Sima Cheng, the king of Nangong, was fifteen years old. According to the old etiquette, he should be crowned.
The officials discussed and reported: "Li, you enter youth at the age of fifteen, and the king gives birth to a son at the age of fifteen, which illustrates the appropriate time for crowning."
In addition, Han and Wei sent envoys to crown kings, which was not an ancient system.
So it was decided that all kings would be crowned at the age of fifteen and no more envoys would be sent.
Wang Biaozhi said that "Li" and "Zhuan" record that the crowning ceremony took place in the ancestral temple.
After he was crowned emperor, he went out by car to the Ancestral Temple to salute and report the success.
This is probably also imitating the ceremony in the ancestral temple.
In the fourth year of the reign of King Zhengshi of Wei Qi, he established the Queen Zhen family. The ceremony of that time has not been preserved.
In the second year of Xianning reign of Emperor Wu, the emperor came to the palace in person and sent a Taiwei to purchase the title of Empress Yang and marry her into the mourning queen.
For this reason, there was an amnesty, and there were different rewards for the princes and below, and all officials gave gifts.
In the eighth year of Taikang's reign, officials reported: As a wedding gift, the emperor's wedding used black coins, silk, and eight horses.
The princes used black coins and silk, plus bi and four horses.
The doctor used black coins and silk and added sheep.
In the Zhan Dynasty, fur horses were displayed in the atrium as gifts. The emperor added grain and the princes added Zhang. According to the etiquette of the Zhou Dynasty, the use of bi was changed to the use of Zhang. Others, such as sheep, wild goose, wine, rice, silk and silk, remained the same.
For the weddings of princes, five pieces of coins and silk were added to the betrothal gifts, wedding gifts, and wedding gifts. The husband's family had to prepare all four horses for the wedding ceremony.
summary:
The fifth type of etiquette is Jia, covering banquets, crown ceremonies, and weddings. At the end of the Zhou Dynasty, these rituals were rarely practiced. The crown ceremony for emperors was not recorded in the "Zhou Rites," but it was performed for princes. The emperor's crown ceremony involved three crowns, while the crown prince was crowned twice. The ceremony was held in the ancestral temple, and the emperor personally attended. The wedding etiquette for emperors included gifts of black coins, silk, and horses. The ceremony involved sending envoys to marry the queen, with various rituals such as asking for names, accepting gifts, and personal greetings. The emperor's wedding did not include music or congratulations, as per the rites. The crown prince's wedding also followed specific protocols, with gifts and ceremonies similar to those of the emperor.

