Summary uses chunk [0, 2, 3, 6, 11, 16]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
相如为郎数岁，会唐蒙使略通夜郎、僰中，发巴、蜀吏卒，千人，郡又多为发转漕万余人，用军兴法诛其渠率。巴、蜀民大惊恐。
上闻之，乃遣相如责唐蒙等，因谕告巴、蜀民以非上意。
檄曰：告巴、蜀太守：蛮夷自擅，不讨之日久矣，时侵犯边境，劳士大夫。
陛下即位，存抚天下，集安中国，然后兴师出兵，北征匈奴，单于怖骇，交臂受事，屈膝请和。
康居西域，重译纳贡，稽首来享。
移师东指，闽越相诛；右吊番禺，太子入朝。
南夷之君，西僰之长，常效贡职，不敢惰怠，延颈举踵，喁喁然，皆乡风慕义，欲为臣妾，道里辽远，山川阻深，不能自致。
夫不顺者已诛，而为善者未赏，故道中郎将往宾之，发巴、蜀之士各百人以奉币，卫使者不然，靡有兵革之事，战斗之患。
translation: 
During the few years that Xiangru served as a Langguan, Tang Meng was ordered to open Yelang and Fenzhong in the west, and levied a thousand officials and soldiers from Bajun and Shujun. The county also sent tens of thousands more people to transport grain from land and waterways, and executed the leaders who disobeyed the order according to wartime laws. The people of Bajun and Shujun were greatly frightened.
When the emperor learned of this, he sent Sima Xiangru to blame Tang Meng and others, and took the opportunity to inform the people of Ba and Shu counties that Tang Meng's actions were not the emperor's original intention.
The message said: Inform the governors of Bajun and Shujun that the barbarians do not submit to the jurisdiction of the Han Dynasty and have not attacked them for a long time. They often invaded the border and made the sergeants and generals work hard.
Now that the emperor has ascended the throne, he has taken care of the world and brought peace and stability to China. Then he mobilized troops to attack the Huns in the north. Shanzi was frightened, surrendered, and begged for peace.
Kangju and other countries in the Western Regions sent envoys with generous gifts, tributes, and sacrifices.
The army pointed eastward, and Minyue was pacified. To appease Panyu on the right, the King of Nanyue sent the prince to the court.
The monarch of Nanyi and the commander-in-chief of Xifen often served and contributed to the court, and did not dare to slack off. They hoped to return to Daoyi as soon as possible and wanted to serve the Han family. However, because of the long distance and the obstacles of mountains and rivers, they could not pay their respects in person.
Those who disobeyed have been killed, but those who have done good have not been rewarded, so Zhonglang will be sent to make them submit. Five hundred soldiers each from Bajun and Shujun were recruited to offer gifts and guard the envoys to prevent accidents, so that there would be no war or danger of war.

summary:
summary line 0: Sima Xiangru served as a Langguan when Tang Meng was ordered to open Yelang and Fenzhong in the west, levying soldiers from Bajun and Shujun and executing leaders who disobeyed, causing great fear among the people. The emperor sent Xiangru to blame Tang Meng and inform the people that these actions were not the emperor's original intent. The message explained that the barbarians had long invaded the border, but the emperor had brought peace to China, attacked the Huns, and pacified Minyue and Nanyue. The recruitment of soldiers was meant to prevent war, not to cause fear. The emperor condemned those who committed suicide or fled from conscription, emphasizing the duty of subjects to serve their country. He also criticized the lack of moral education among the people and their fathers and brothers.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
方今田时，重烦百姓，已亲见近县，恐远所溪谷山泽之民不遍闻，檄到，亟下县道，咸谕陛下意，毋忽！
相如还报。
唐蒙已略通夜郎，因通西南夷道，发巴、蜀、广汉卒，作者数万人。
治道二岁，道不成，士卒多物故，费以亿万计。
蜀民及汉用事者多言其不便。
是时邛、莋之君长闻南夷与汉通，得赏赐多，多欲愿为内臣妾，请吏，比南夷。
上问相如，相如曰： 邛、莋、冉、駹者近署，道易通，异时尝通为郡县矣，至汉兴而罢。
今诚复通，为置县，愈于南夷。
上以为然，乃拜相如为中郎将，建节往使。
副使者王然于、壶弃国、吕越人，驰四乘之传，因巴、蜀吏币物以赂西南夷。
至蜀，太守以下郊迎，县令负弩矢先驱，蜀人以为宠。
translation: 
It was the farming season, and I was particularly careful not to bother the people. I had already personally informed the people in the nearby counties. I was worried that the people in the remote areas and in the valleys and mountains would not be widely heard. When the message arrived, I quickly distributed it to all counties and provinces to generally inform the emperor of his thoughts, hoping that they would not be ignored.
Xiangru returns the report.
Tang Meng had already opened up Yelang, and took advantage of this to open the road to the southwestern Yi. He recruited soldiers from the three counties of Ba, Shu, and Guanghan, and tens of thousands of them worked.
It took two years to build the road, but it was not completed. Most of the soldiers died, and the money spent was calculated in hundreds of millions.
Most people in Shu County and those in power in the Han Dynasty said that it was not good for the country.
At that time, the commanders of Yinyi and Zha heard that Nanyi had interacted with the Han Dynasty and received many rewards. Most of them were willing to become vassals of the Han Dynasty and requested that they be given officials so that they could be treated the same as Nanyi.
The emperor asked about Wing Kou, and Nuojia said: The Yi tribes of Yin, Jia, Ran and Xiao are close to Shu County, and the roads are easy to open. During the Qin Dynasty, they were opened and set up as counties and counties, but they were abandoned after the establishment of the Han Dynasty.
Now if it is opened again and counties are set up, it will be better than Nanyi.
The emperor thought it was right, so he worshiped Xiangru as Zhonglang General and sent envoys to Xiyi with integrity.
The deputy envoys were Wang Ranyu, Hu Chongguo, and Lu Yue, driving four chariots. They planned to rely on the officials and property of Ba and Shu counties to win over and bribe the southwestern barbarians.
When they arrived at Shu County, the prefect of Shu County and his officials came to greet him on the outskirts. The county magistrate personally led the way with bows and arrows on his back. The people of Shu County were proud of this.

summary:
summary line 1: Xiangru returned to report. Tang Meng had opened Yelang and recruited tens of thousands of soldiers from Ba, Shu, and Guanghan to build a road, which took two years and cost hundreds of millions, with many soldiers dying. Many in Shu and the Han court opposed this. The commanders of Yinyi and Zha, seeing Nanyi's rewards, wished to become Han vassals. The emperor consulted Nuojia, who noted that the Yi tribes near Shu had been opened during Qin but abandoned after Han. The emperor agreed to reopen them, appointing Xiangru as Zhonglang General to pacify the southwestern barbarians. Xiangru used officials and property from Ba and Shu to bribe the barbarians, and the people of Shu were proud of his mission. Zhuo Wangsun, Xiangru's father-in-law, distributed property equally to his daughter. Xiangru pacified the barbarians, who submitted to Han, and the emperor was pleased.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
于是卓王孙、临邛诸公皆因门下献牛、酒以交欢。
卓王孙喟然而汉，自以得使女尚司马长卿晚，乃厚分与其女财，与男等。
相如使略定西南夷，邛、莋、再、駹、斯榆之君皆请为臣妾，除边关，边关益斥，西至沫、若水，南至牁牂为徼，通灵山道，桥孙水，以通邛、莋。
还报，天子大说。
相如使时，蜀长老多言通西南夷之不为用，大臣亦以为然。
相如欲谏，业已建之，不敢，乃著书，借蜀父老为辞，而己诘难之，以风天子，且因宣其使指，令百姓皆知天子意。
其辞曰：
汉兴七十有八载，德茂存乎六世，威武纷云，港恩汪濊，群生霑濡，洋溢乎方外。
于是乃命使西征，随流而攘，风之所被，罔不披靡。
因朝冉从駹，定莋存邛，略斯榆，举苞蒲，结轨还辕，东乡将报，至于蜀都。
耆老大夫搢绅先生之徒二十有七人，俨然造焉。
辞毕，进曰： 盖闻天子之于夷狄也，其义羁縻勿绝而已。
今罢三郡之士，通夜郎之涂，三年于兹，而功不竟。士卒劳倦，万民不赡；今又接之以西夷，百姓力屈，恐不能卒业，此亦使者这累也，窃为左右患之。
且夫邛、莋、西僰之与中国并也，历年兹多，不可记已。
仁者不以德来，强者不以力并，意者殆不可乎！
今割齐民以附夷狄，弊所恃以事无用，鄙人固陋，不识所谓。
使者曰： 乌谓此乎？
必若所云，则是蜀不变服而巴不化俗也，仆尚恶闻若说。
translation: 
So Zhuo Wangsun and the elders of Linyin all became Xiangru's disciples through their marriage relationships, and offered beef and wine to please Xiangru.
Zhuo Wangsun sighed deeply, thinking that it was too late for his daughter to marry Sima Changqing, so he distributed generous property to his daughter equally with his son.
Sima Changqing sent people to pacify the southwestern barbarians, and the princes of Yin, Zha, Ran, Qo and Siyu all asked to submit to the Han Dynasty. So the old passes were demolished, and the new passes were expanded outwards, reaching Keshui and Ruoshui in the west and the border of Yangge in the south. Lingshan Road was opened and a bridge was built on Sunshui River to connect Gongkou and Zhao.
The emperor was very happy when he returned the report.
When Xiangru was sent as an envoy, most of the senior people in Shu County said that opening up the southwestern barbarians was of no use, and some ministers also thought so.
Xiangru wanted to admonish the emperor, but he remembered that he had already made suggestions and did not dare to deviate from the preface, so he wrote an article and used the form of a conversation with the elders of Shu County to question the other party and use it to satirize the emperor. He also announced his decree to let the people know the emperor's mind.
His article said:
In the seventy-eight years since the rise of the Han Dynasty, the benevolence and virtues have been flourishing for six generations. They are mighty and majestic, and their benevolence is profound and wide, benefiting all living beings and filling China and foreign countries.
So he sent envoys to march westward, and the barbarians retreated along the current. Wherever the king's wind covered them, everything collapsed with the wind.
So Ran Yi came to court, Ji Yi obeyed, pacified the capital of Jiao, and the capital of Pingsuo, occupied Siyu, captured Baopu, and drove back and forth with horses and horses to report to the court and drive to the capital of Shu.
Twenty-seven people, including elderly and high-ranking officials in the local area, solemnly went to pay homage to the envoy.
After greetings, we went to Xiju: I heard that the emperor's principle in dealing with the Yi and Di was to contain them and prevent them from severing relations.
Now we have tired the soldiers in the three counties and opened the road to Yelang. It has been three years since the success was achieved. The soldiers are tired and tired, and the people's supplies cannot be satisfied. Now we are opening the road to Xiyi. The people are exhausted, and I am afraid that we will not be able to complete this task. It is also a burden to the envoy. I am worried about you privately.
Moreover, Yin, Zha, and Xijia are juxtaposed with the Central Plains. They have experienced so many years that I can’t remember them clearly.
Since ancient times, emperors, despite their benevolence and virtue, could not be recruited, and although they were powerful, they could not be conquered. I am afraid that this was impossible because the road was difficult, dangerous and far away!
Nowadays, the property of the people who are divided into households is divided to make the barbarians rich, and the common people who the emperor relies on are exhausted and useless land is opened up. We are short-sighted and do not know whether what we are saying is right or wrong?
The messenger said: Why do you say this?
If it is like what you said, it means that the people of Ba and Shu do not need to change their original clothing customs similar to those of the Yi and Di.

summary:
summary line 2: However, many in Shu and some ministers opposed opening the southwestern barbarians. Xiangru wrote an article to admonish the emperor, using a conversation with the elders of Shu to question their views. He argued that the Han dynasty's virtues were vast, and the barbarians should be brought under control. He criticized the elders for their shortsightedness, comparing the emperor's efforts to those of Xia Yu in controlling floods. He emphasized that the emperor's goal was to extend benevolence and stop conquest, and that the people's labor was justified for such a grand cause. The elders eventually agreed with him.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
观者未睹指，听者未闻音，犹焦朋已翔乎寥廓，而罗者犹视乎薮泽，悲夫！
于是诸大夫茫然丧其所怀来，失厥所以进，喟然并称曰： 允哉汉德，此鄙人之所愿闻也。
百姓虽劳，请以身先之。
敞罔靡徙，迁延而辞避。
其后人有上书言相如使时受金，失官。
居岁余，复召为郎。
相如口吃而善著书。
常有消渴病。
与卓氏婚，饶于财。
故其仕宦，未尝肯与公卿国家之事，常称疾闲居，不慕官爵。
尝从上至长杨猎。
是时天子方好自击熊豕，驰逐野兽，相如因上疏谏。
其辞曰：
臣闻物有同类而殊能者，故力称乌获，捷言庆忌，勇其贲、育。
臣之愚，窃以为人诚有之，兽亦宜然。
translation: 
The viewer does not see the fingers, and the listener does not hear the sound, as if the Jiaoming bird has soared in the vast sky, while Zhang Gang's bird-catcher is still watching the lake. How sad!
So the officials were at a loss and lost the expectations they had when they came and the opinions they wanted to state when they came to see you. They sighed and praised together: "It is true that the kindness of the Han Dynasty is exactly what we want to hear."
Although the people are tired, please let us lead by example and walk in front of the people.
Feeling disappointed, he moved back, and after a while he said goodbye and left.
After that, someone wrote a letter to accuse Xiangru of accepting money from others when he was on a mission, and he was dismissed from his official position.
More than a year later, he was summoned to serve as Lang Guan again.
Xiangru stutters but is good at writing articles.
Often suffer from diabetes.
Marrying the Zhuo family, she has abundant property.
Therefore, when he held an official position, he was never willing to participate in the affairs of the public and the country. He excused himself to stay at home due to illness and did not envy his official title.
I once followed the emperor to Changyang Palace for hunting.
At this time, the emperor liked to personally kill bears and wild boars, drive horses to chase wild beasts, and give advice and advice.
Shuwen wrote:
I have heard that some people are of the same type but have different abilities, so when it comes to strength, they are in vain, when it comes to agility, they are jealous, and when it comes to bravery, they are compared to Meng Ben and Xia Yu.
I am ignorant and secretly believe that this is indeed the case for humans, and it should be the same for beasts as well.

summary:
summary line 3: Later, Xiangru was accused of accepting bribes and dismissed, but was reinstated as Langguan after a year. He suffered from diabetes and often stayed home due to illness. He once accompanied the emperor to hunt at Changyang Palace and advised against dangerous hunting, warning of potential disasters. The emperor appreciated his advice. Xiangru also wrote a eulogy for Qin II's mistakes and composed "Adult Fu" to express the emperor's desire for immortality. The emperor was delighted with the fu.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
相如既奏《大人赋》，天子大说，飘飘有陵云气游天地之间意。
相如既病免，家居茂陵。
天子曰： 司马相如病甚，可往从悉取其书，若后之矣。
使所忠往，而相如已死，家无遗书。
问其妻，对曰： 长卿未尝有书也。
时时著书，人又取去。
长卿未死时，为一卷书，曰有使来求书，奏之。
其遗札书言封禅事，所忠奏焉，天子异之。
其辞曰：伊上古之初肇，自颢穹生民。
历选列辟，以迄乎秦。
率迩者踵武，听逖者风声。
纷轮威蕤，堙灭而不称者，不可胜数也。
继《昭》、《夏》，崇号谥，略可道者七十有二君。
罔若淑而不昌，畴逆失而能存？
轩辕之前，遐哉邈乎，其详不可得闻已。
五三《六经》载籍之传，维见可观也。《书》曰： 元首明哉！
股肱良哉！
translation: 
After Xiangru presented "Adult Fu", the emperor was very happy, and he had the spirit of flying clouds, as if he had the artistic conception of traveling between heaven and earth.
After Xiangru was dismissed from his post due to illness, he lived in Maoling's home.
The emperor said: Sima Xiangru is seriously ill. You can send someone to fetch all the books he has written. You are already lagging behind others.
When the dispatcher went there, Xiangru was already dead and there was no book left at home.
Asked his wife, she replied: "It turns out that Chang Qing never had a book."
He often wrote books, and they were often taken away from him.
When Chang Qing was alive, he wrote a book and presented it to the court when an envoy came to look for it.
He sent the letters he left behind to talk about Feng Fang's affairs, and presented the faithful notes to the emperor. The emperor thought the book was strange.
His book said: In ancient times, at the beginning of the creation of the world, people were born.
Count the monarchs of all dynasties until Qin.
Follow the relics of modern times and listen to the sounds of ancient times.
There are countless people who are mixed and confused, buried and not praised by the world.
It can be said that there are seventy-two monarchs who carry forward the uprightness, advocate the beauty of the title, and enshrine Zen in Mount Tai.
No one can govern well but fail to prosper, and who can go against the grain and fail to survive for a long time?
Before Xuanyuan, time was extremely far away, things were unclear, and the details were no longer known.
The movements of the Five Emperors and Three Kings can be known from the records and legends in the "Six Classics". "Shangshu" says: The monarch is wise!
Well done, minister!

summary:
summary line 4: After Xiangru's death, the emperor sent for his writings but found none. His wife said he often wrote but had no books left. Xiangru had left a letter about Fengshan, which the emperor found strange. The letter discussed ancient monarchs and the importance of Fengshan rituals, arguing that the Han dynasty's virtues surpassed those of Zhou and that the emperor should perform the rituals. The emperor eventually performed the Fengshan ceremony eight years after Xiangru's death.

Chunk 16: 
original: 
是以汤、武至尊严，不失肃祗，舜在假典，顾省厥遗：此之谓也。
相如既卒五岁，上始祭后土。
八年而遂礼中岳，封于太山，至梁甫，禅肃然。
相如它所著，若《遗平陵侯书》、《与五公子相难》、《草木书篇》，不采，采其尤著公卿者云。
赞曰：司马迁称：《春秋》推见至隐，《易本》隐以之显，《大雅》言王公大人，而德逮黎庶，《小雅》讥小己之得失，其流及上。
所言虽殊，其合德一也。
相如虽多虚辞滥说，然要其归引之于节俭，此亦《诗》之风谏何异？
扬雄以为靡丽之赋，劝百而讽一，犹骋郑、卫之声，曲终而奏雅，不已戏乎！
translation: 
Therefore, King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou occupied the supreme position without losing the courtesy; Yu and Shun observed the stars and observed the gains and losses of political affairs.
It's about making things happen. Sima Xiangru had been dead for five years, and the emperor had just offered sacrifices to the earth god.
In the eighth year, he first worshiped the god of Zhongyue, then sealed Mount Tai, went to Mount Liangfu, and offered sacrifices to Mount Suran.
Xiangru's other works, such as "A Letter to the Marquis of Pingling", "A Difficulty with the Five Young Masters", and "Caomu Shupian" are not included. Only his articles that are particularly well-known among the ministers are included.
Praise: Taishi Gong said: "Spring and Autumn" uses subtle words to deduce the righteousness of human affairs, "Book of Changes" uses natural subtleties to explain human affairs, "Daya" talks about princes and great men, and their virtue extends to the common people, "Xiaoya" criticizes political affairs based on one's own gains and losses, and its rumors reach princes and princes.
Therefore, although the appearance of words is different, they are all consistent in meeting moral standards.
Although Xiangru contains many fictional words and exaggerations, its main point boils down to one point: it advocates frugality. How is this different from the satire in the Book of Songs?
Yang Xiong thought that his gorgeous words encouraged extravagance and the words admonishing frugality accounted for only one percent, as if he were racing among the lustful voices of Zheng and Wei, and only played elegant music at the end of the song. Isn't this also a frivolous play!

summary:
summary line 5: The historian praised Xiangru's works for their moral lessons, despite their exaggerations, comparing them to the satires in the Book of Songs. However, Yang Xiong criticized Xiangru for encouraging extravagance with his ornate language.

