Chunk 0: 
original: 
张仪者，魏人也。
始尝与苏秦俱事鬼谷先生，学术，苏秦自以不及张仪。
张仪已学游说诸侯。
尝从楚相饮，已而楚相亡璧，门下意张仪，曰： 仪贫无行，必此盗相君之璧。
共执张仪，掠笞数百，不服，醳之。
其妻曰： 嘻！
子毋读书游说，安得此辱乎？
张仪谓其妻曰： 视吾舌尚在不？
其妻笑曰： 舌在也。
仪曰： 足矣。
苏秦已说赵王而得相约从亲，然恐秦之攻诸侯，败约後负，念莫可使用於秦者，乃使人微感张仪曰： 子始与苏秦善，今秦已当路，子何不往游，以求通子之原？
张仪於是之赵，上谒求见苏秦。
苏秦乃诫门下人不为通，又使不得去者数日。
已而见之，坐之堂下，赐仆妾之食。因而数让之曰： 以子之材能，乃自令困辱至此。
translation: 
Zhang Yi is a native of Wei.
At first, he and Su Qin studied under Mr. Gui Guzi and learned the art of lobbying. Su Qin thought that he was not as talented as Zhang Yi.
After Zhang Yi completed his studies, he went to lobby the princes.
He once drank with Prime Minister Chu. During the dinner, Prime Minister Chu lost a piece of jade. The guests suspected Zhang Yi and said, "Zhang Yi is poor and has bad conduct. He must have stolen the prime minister's jade."
So, everyone arrested Zhang Yi and tortured him hundreds of times.
Zhang Yi never admitted it and had to release him.
His wife said sadly and hatefully: Alas! If you had never gone to study and lobby, how could you have suffered such humiliation?
Zhang Yi said to his wife: Look, is my tongue still there?
His wife smiled and said: The tongue is still there.
Zhang Yi said: This is enough.
At that time, Su Qin had persuaded King Zhao to agree to form a vertical alliance with the other six countries except Qin, but he was afraid that Qin would take the opportunity to attack the vassal states and the alliance would be destroyed before it was even concluded. He also considered that there was no suitable person to send to Qin, so he sent someone to secretly guide Zhang Yi and said: "You and Su Qin had a good relationship at the beginning. Now that Su Qin is in power, why don't you make friends with him to realize your wish of success?"
So Zhang Yi went to Zhao State, submitted a famous invitation, and requested to meet Su Qin.
Su Qin warned his disciples not to inform Zhang Yi, and kept him from leaving for several days.
Soon Su Qin received him. He made him sit in the hall, gave him food for his servants and concubines, and repeatedly scolded him: "With your talents, you have made yourself so poor."


Chunk 1: 
original: 
吾宁不能言而富贵子，子不足收也。
谢去之。
张仪之来也，自以为故人，求益，反见辱，怒，念诸侯莫可事，独秦能苦赵，乃遂入秦。
苏秦已而告其舍人曰： 张仪，天下贤士，吾殆弗如也。
今吾幸先用，而能用秦柄者，独张仪可耳。
然贫，无因以进。
吾恐其乐小利而不遂，故召辱之，以激其意。子为我阴奉之。
乃言赵王，发金币车马，使人微随张仪，与同宿舍，稍稍近就之，奉以车马金钱，所欲用，为取给，而弗告。
张仪遂得以见秦惠王。
惠王以为客卿，与谋伐诸侯。
苏秦之舍人乃辞去。张仪曰： 赖子得显，方且报德，何故去也？
舍人曰： 臣非知君，知君乃苏君。
translation: 
Don’t I have the ability to recommend you and make you rich? It's just that you don't deserve to be hired.
After saying that, Zhang Yi was sent away.
Zhang Yi came to seek refuge with Su Qin, thinking that they were old friends and could get benefits, but unexpectedly he was humiliated and was very angry. He also considered that no one among the princes was worthy of serving, and only Qin could invade Zhao, so he went to Qin.
Soon Su Qin said to those close to him: Zhang Yi is the most talented person in the world. I probably can't compare with him.
Now, fortunately, I was reused before him, and only Zhang Yi can control the power of Qin.
However, he is currently very poor and has no way to enter the society.
I was worried that in order to satisfy small interests, he would no longer be enterprising and would not be able to achieve great achievements, so I summoned him to humiliate him and use it to stimulate his will. You serve him secretly on my behalf.
Su Qin reported to the King of Zhao, took out money, property, chariots and horses, sent people to follow Zhang Yi secretly, stayed in the same inn with him, and gradually got closer to him. He also gave him chariots, horses, money, and whatever he needed, but did not explain who gave it.
So Zhang Yi had the opportunity to meet King Qin Hui.
King Hui appointed him as a guest minister and discussed with him how to attack the princes of various countries.
At this time, the retainer sent by Su Qin was about to say goodbye and leave. Zhang Yi said: Thanks to your help, I gained a distinguished position. I am about to repay your kindness, why do I have to leave?
The doorman said: I don't know you well. The one who really knows you is Mr. Su.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
苏君忧秦伐赵败从约，以为非君莫能得秦柄，故感怒君，使臣阴奉给君资，尽苏君之计谋。
今君已用，请归报。
张仪曰： 嗟乎，此在吾术中而不悟，吾不及苏君明矣！
吾又新用，安能谋赵乎？
为吾谢苏君，苏君之时，仪何敢言。
苴蜀相攻击，各来告急於秦。
秦惠王欲发兵以伐蜀，以为道险狭难至，而韩又来侵秦，秦惠王欲先伐韩，後伐蜀，恐不利，欲先伐蜀，恐韩袭秦之敝。犹豫未能决。
司马错与张仪争论於惠王之前，司马错欲伐蜀，张仪曰： 不如伐韩。
王曰： 请闻其说。
仪曰： 亲魏善楚，下兵三川，塞什谷之口，当屯留之道，魏绝南阳，楚临南郑，秦攻新城、宜阳，以临二周之郊，诛周王之罪，侵楚、魏之地。
周自知不能救，九鼎宝器必出。
据九鼎，案图籍，挟天子以令於天下，天下莫敢不听，此王业也。
translation: 
Mr. Su was worried that Qin would attack Zhao and destroy the alliance. He believed that no one but you could control the power of Qin, so he angered Mr. Su and sent me to secretly provide you with money. This was Mr. Su's strategy.
Now that my husband has been reused, please let me go back and resume my life!
Zhang Yi said: Alas, these tactics were originally within the scope of my study, but I didn't realize it. I'm not as clever as Mr. Su!
Besides, I have just been appointed, so how can I plan to attack Zhao?
Please thank Mr. Su for me. As long as Mr. Su is in power, how can I, Zhang Yi, dare to talk about attacking Zhao?
After Zhang Yi became the prime minister of Qin, he wrote a letter to warn the prime minister of Chu: When I drank with you, I didn't steal your jade, but you whipped me.
You have to protect your country well, I will steal your city soon! Ba and Shu attacked each other, and they went to Qin for help. King Hui of Qin wanted to send out troops to attack Shu, but he also believed that the road was dangerous, narrow and difficult to reach. At this time, South Korea came to invade Qin again. King Qin Hui wanted to attack South Korea first, and then attack Shu, which might be disadvantageous; he wanted to attack Shu first, but he was worried that South Korea would take advantage of the fatigue of the long battle to launch a sneak attack, so he hesitated and could not make a decision.
Sima Cuo and Zhang Yi argued endlessly in front of King Hui. Sima Cuo advocated attacking Shu, but Zhang Yi said: It is better to attack South Korea first.
King Hui said: I am willing to hear your respective reasons.
Zhang Yi said: We will first have a blind date with the Wei State and be friendly with the Chu State, and then march to Sanchuan to block the pass of Shigu and block the main road of Tunliu. In this way, the passage from Wei to Nanyang was cut off, allowing the Chu State to send troops to approach Nanzheng. The Qin army attacked Xincheng and Yiyang, approaching the suburbs of the Western Zhou and Eastern Zhou Dynasties to attack the king of Zhou for his crimes, and then captured the lands of Chu and Wei.
King Zhou himself knew that there was no way to save it, so he would definitely donate the nine-cauldron treasure passed down to the country.
The Qin State possesses the treasure of Jiuding and controls the map and household registration of the world. It can control the emperor of Zhou and issue orders to the world. No one in the world dares not to obey. This is the great cause of unifying the world!


Chunk 3: 
original: 
今夫蜀，西僻之国而戎翟之伦也，敝兵劳众不足以成名，得其地不足以为利。
臣闻争名者於朝，争利者於市。
今三川、周室，天下之朝市也，而王不争焉，顾争於戎翟，去王业远矣。
司马错曰： 不然。
臣闻之，欲富国者务广其地，欲彊兵者务富其民，欲王者务博其德，三资者备而王随之矣。
今王地小民贫，故臣原先从事於易。
夫蜀，西僻之国也，而戎翟之长也，有桀纣之乱。
以秦攻之，譬如使豺狼逐群羊。
得其地足以广国，取其财足以富民缮兵，不伤众而彼已服焉。
拔一国而天下不以为暴，利尽西海而天下不以为贪，是我一举而名实附也，而又有禁暴止乱之名。
今攻韩，劫天子，恶名也，而未必利也，又有不义之名，而攻天下所不欲，危矣。
translation: 
Nowadays, Shu is a remote country in the west. It is a backward nation like the Rong and Di. Attacking them will make our soldiers tired and the people toiled, and we will not be able to become famous in the world. We will not gain any practical benefits by seizing their land.
I heard that those who pursue fame and status should go to the court, and those who pursue profit should go to the market.
Nowadays, Sanchuan and Zhou Dynasty are like the imperial court and the market, but the king does not compete there. Instead, he competes in backward areas such as Rongdi and Di. This is too far away from the emperor's achievements.
Sima Cuo said: That's not the case.
I heard that those who want to make the country rich and powerful must expand its territory; those who want to make the army strong must make the people rich; those who want to unify the world must extend kindness. If these three conditions are met, the great cause of the emperor will be a matter of course.
Today, the king's territory is still small and the people are still poor, so I hope that the king will do something easy to do first.
The Kingdom of Shu is a remote country in the west, but it is the leader of Rong and Di. Disasters similar to those of Xia Jie and Shang Zhou have already occurred.
Sending out Qin's powerful army to attack it is like asking jackals to drive away sheep.
Occupying its land can expand Qin's territory, and seizing its wealth can enrich the people and improve the army. They had already surrendered without losing any troops or generals.
If we conquer a country, people in the world will not think of us as cruel; if we take away all the wealth of the West, people in the world will not think of us as greedy. By sending out troops, we will gain prestige and real profits, and we will also enjoy a good reputation for prohibiting riots.
Today, attacking South Korea and kidnapping the emperor will bring a very bad reputation and may not necessarily bring benefits. It will also bear the ugly name of injustice. Moreover, it is a country that no one in the world wants to attack, so it will be dangerous.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
臣请谒其故：周，天下之宗室也；齐，韩之与国也。
周自知失九鼎，韩自知亡三川，将二国并力合谋，以因乎齐、赵而求解乎楚、魏，以鼎与楚，以地与魏，王弗能止也。此臣之所谓危也。不如伐蜀完。
惠王曰： 善，寡人请听子。
卒起兵伐蜀，十月，取之，遂定蜀，贬蜀王更号为侯，而使陈庄相蜀。
蜀既属秦，秦以益彊，富厚，轻诸侯。
秦惠王十年，使公子华与张仪围蒲阳，降之。
仪因言秦复与魏，而使公子繇质於魏。
仪因说魏王曰： 秦王之遇魏甚厚，魏不可以无礼。
魏因入上郡、少梁，谢秦惠王。
惠王乃以张仪为相，更名少梁曰夏阳。
仪相秦四岁，立惠王为王。
居一岁，为秦将，取陕。筑上郡塞。
其後二年，使与齐、楚之相会齧桑。
东还而免相，相魏以为秦，欲令魏先事秦而诸侯效之。
魏王不肯听仪。秦王怒，伐取魏之曲沃、平周，复阴厚张仪益甚。
张仪惭，无以归报。
留魏四岁而魏襄王卒，哀王立。
张仪复说哀王，哀王不听。
於是张仪阴令秦伐魏。
魏与秦战，败。
明年，齐又来败魏於观津。
秦复欲攻魏，先败韩申差军，斩首八万，诸侯震恐。
而张仪复说魏王曰： 魏地方不至千里，卒不过三十万。
translation: 
Please let me state the reason: King Zhou is the common lord of the world; he is a country that has close relations with Qi and Han.
King Zhou himself knew that he would lose the Jiuding of Chuan, and South Korea knew that it would lose Sanchuan. These two countries would definitely work together to seek reconciliation with Chu and Wei by relying on the power of Qi and Zhao. If they give the Jiuding treasure to the Chu State and give up the land to the Wei State, the king cannot stop them. This is the danger I mentioned, so it is not as complete as attacking the Shu State.
King Hui said: Well said, I will follow your advice.
Finally sent troops to attack Shu. In October of that year, they captured Shu. He suppressed the rebellion in Shu, demoted him as King of Shu, changed his title to Marquis of Shu, and sent Chen Zhuang to serve as the Prime Minister of Shu.
After Shu returned to Qin, Qin became stronger and richer, and despised other princes even more.
In the tenth year of King Hui's reign, he sent his sons Hua and Zhang Yi to lead an army to besiege Puyang of Wei and surrendered it.
Zhang Yi took the opportunity to persuade King Qin to return it to Wei, and sent his son Yao to Wei as a hostage.
Zhang Yi took the opportunity to persuade the king of Wei: "Qin is so generous to Wei, and Wei must reciprocate with courtesy."
Therefore, Wei State dedicated Shangjun and Shaoliang to Qin State to thank King Qin Hui.
King Hui appointed Zhang Yi as his prime minister and renamed Shaoliang Xia Yang.
Zhang Yi served as the Prime Minister of Qin for four years and officially supported King Hui as king.
A year later, Zhang Yi served as the general of the Qin State, captured Shaanxi and built the Shangjun Fortress.
Two years later, the King of Qin sent Zhang Yi to hold talks with the state ministers of Qi and Chu in Zhisang.
After he returned from the east, he was dismissed from the post of prime minister. For the benefit of Qin, he went to Wei to serve as prime minister, intending to make Wei first serve Qin and let other vassal states follow its example.
The King of Wei refused to accept Zhang Yi's suggestion, and the King of Qin was furious. He immediately sent out troops to conquer Quwo and Pingzhou in Wei State, and secretly gave Zhang Yi more generous treatment.
Zhang Yi felt very ashamed and felt that there was nothing he could do to repay King Qin.
He stayed in Wei for four years. Wei Xianghou died and King Ai came to the throne.
Zhang Yi also persuaded King Ai of Wei to join Qin, but King Ai did not listen.
So Zhang Yi secretly asked Qin to attack Wei.
The state of Wei fought with the state of Qin and was defeated by the state of Qin.
The next year, Qi defeated the Wei army again at Guanjin.
Qin wanted to attack Wei again, but first defeated South Korea's Shen Chai's troops, killing 80,000 officers and soldiers, which shocked the princes.
Zhang Yi lobbied the King of Wei again and said: The land of Wei is less than a thousand miles in length and breadth, and its soldiers cannot exceed 300,000.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
地四平，诸侯四通辐凑，无名山大川之限。
从郑至梁二百馀里，车驰人走，不待力而至。
梁南与楚境，西与韩境，北与赵境，东与齐境，卒戍四方，守亭鄣者不下十万。
梁之地势，固战场也。
梁南与楚而不与齐，则齐攻其东；东与齐而不与赵，则赵攻其北；不合於韩，则韩攻其西；不亲於楚，则楚攻其南：此所谓四分五裂之道也。
且夫诸侯之为从者，将以安社稷尊主彊兵显名也。
今从者一天下，约为昆弟，刑白马以盟洹水之上，以相坚也。
而亲昆弟同父母，尚有争钱财，而欲恃诈伪反覆苏秦之馀谋，其不可成亦明矣。
translation: 
The surrounding terrain is flat, like the center of a cart axle, which can connect the vassal states in all directions without being isolated by famous mountains and rivers.
It was only more than two hundred miles from Xinzheng to Daliang. The chariots were speeding and the soldiers were running. They arrived without much effort.
Wei State borders Chu State to the south, South Korea to the west, Zhao State to the north, and Qi State to the east. Soldiers are stationed on all sides of the border. There are no less than 100,000 people defending the border fortresses alone.
The terrain of Wei State was originally a battlefield.
If Wei goes south and is friendly with Chu but not with Qi, then Qi will attack your east; if it goes east and is friendly with Qi but not with Zhao, then Zhao will attack your north; if it is not on good terms with South Korea, then South Korea will attack your west; if it does not ally with Chu, then Chu will attack your south; this is called a fragmented geographical situation.
Moreover, the purpose for the princes of various countries to form a vertical alliance is to rely on it to make the country peaceful, the monarch respected, the army powerful, and the reputation prominent.
Nowadays, those who advocate unity want to unite the world into one body and become brothers. They kill the white horse on the bank of Huan River and make an alliance through blood, expressing their firm belief in abiding by the covenant.
However, even brothers born to the same parents will compete for money. If you still plan to maintain the stability of the country by relying on Su Qin's hypocritical, deceptive and capricious strategies, it is obvious that you will fail.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
大王不事秦，秦下兵攻河外，据卷、衍？酸枣，劫卫取阳晋，则赵不南，赵不南而梁不北，梁不北则从道绝，从道绝则大王之国欲毋危不可得也。
秦折韩而攻梁，韩怯於秦，秦韩为一，梁之亡可立而须也。
此臣之所为大王患也。 为大王计，莫如事秦。
事秦则楚、韩必不敢动；无楚、韩之患，则大王高枕而卧，国必无忧矣。
且夫秦之所欲弱者莫如楚，而能弱楚者莫如梁。
楚虽有富大之名而实空虚；其卒虽多，然而轻走易北，不能坚战。
悉梁之兵南面而伐楚，胜之必矣。
割楚而益梁，亏楚而適秦，嫁祸安国，此善事也。
大王不听臣，秦下甲士而东伐，虽欲事秦，不可得矣。
且夫从人多奋辞而少可信，说一诸侯而成封侯，是故天下之游谈士莫不日夜搤腕瞋目切齿以言从之便，以说人主。
人主贤其辩而牵其说，岂得无眩哉。
臣闻之，积羽沉舟，群轻折轴，众口铄金，积毁销骨，故原大王审定计议，且赐骸骨辟魏。
translation: 
If the king does not serve Qin, and Qin sends troops to attack Hewai, captures Juandi, Yandi, Yandi, and Suizao, and hijacks Wei and seizes Yangjin, then Zhao's army cannot go south to support Wei, Zhao's army cannot go south, and Wei's army cannot go north, and Wei's army cannot go north, and the channel for the alliance will be cut off. If the road to the alliance is cut off, then it is impossible for the king's country not to suffer danger.
Qin made South Korea surrender and then attacked Wei. South Korea was afraid of Qin. If Qin and Han merged into one, Wei would be destroyed so quickly that there would be no time to sit down and wait.
This is what I am worried about for your Majesty. For the sake of your Majesty, I would rather serve Qin.
If you serve Qin, then Chu and South Korea will not dare to act rashly; if there are no foreign troubles from Chu and South Korea, then the king can sit back and relax, and the country will have nothing to worry about.
Moreover, there is no one that Qin wants to weaken more than Chu, and no one that can weaken Chu is Wei.
Even though the Chu State has a reputation of being rich and powerful, it is actually very empty; even though its soldiers are many, they always run away easily and are unable to fight to the end.
If the Wei State mobilizes all its troops to attack Chu State in the south, it will definitely defeat Chu State.
It is a good thing to slay the Chu State to benefit the Wei State, and to make the Chu State suffer losses and surrender to the Qin State, to pass on the disaster and make one's own country peaceful.
If your Majesty does not follow my advice and Qin sends out its elite troops to attack eastward, even if you want to serve Qin, it may be too late.
Moreover, most of those who advocate cooperation only speak big words and are rarely trustworthy. They just want to persuade a monarch to achieve the goal of becoming a prince, so lobbyists all over the world are clenching their wrists excitedly day and night, widening their eyes, grinding their teeth and bulging their tongues, talking about the benefits of cooperation in order to impress the monarchs of various countries.
The king admires their eloquence and is confused by their lobbying. Isn't this stupid?
I have heard that although feathers are light, they can sink a ship if they are gathered in large numbers. Although goods are light, if they are loaded too much, they can break the axle of an axle. Even gold and stone can be melted when they are destroyed by everyone. Even if there are too many slanders and slanders, even flesh and blood relatives will be destroyed. Therefore, I hope that the king will carefully formulate the correct strategy, and please allow me to retire and leave Wei.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
哀王於是乃倍从约而因仪请成於秦。
张仪归，复相秦。
三岁而魏复背秦为从。
秦攻魏，取曲沃。
明年，魏复事秦。
秦欲伐齐，齐楚从亲，於是张仪往相楚。
楚怀王闻张仪来，虚上舍而自馆之。
曰： 此僻陋之国，子何以教之？
仪说楚王曰： 大王诚能听臣，闭关绝约於齐，臣请献商於之地六百里，使秦女得为大王箕帚之妾，秦楚娶妇嫁女，长为兄弟之国。此北弱齐而西益秦也，计无便此者。
楚王大说而许之。
群臣皆贺，陈轸独吊之。
楚王怒曰： 寡人不兴师发兵得六百里地，群臣皆贺，子独吊，何也？
陈轸对曰： 不然，以臣观之，商於之地不可得而齐秦合，齐秦合则患必至矣。
楚王曰： 有说乎？
陈轸对曰： 夫秦之所以重楚者，以其有齐也。
今闭关绝约於齐，则楚孤。
秦奚贪夫孤国，而与之商於之地六百里？
translation: 
Therefore, King Ai broke the alliance agreement and requested reconciliation with Qin through Zhang Yi.
Zhang Yi returned to Qin and became prime minister again.
Three years later, Wei betrayed Qin and joined the Co-Vertical Covenant.
Qin sent troops to attack Wei and captured Quwo.
The next year, Wei State surrendered to Qin State again.
Qin wanted to attack Qi, but Qi and Chu formed a vertical alliance, so Zhang Yi went to Chu to serve as prime minister.
When King Huai of Chu heard that Zhang Yi had come to Chu, he vacated a high-quality hotel and went to the hotel himself to arrange accommodation for him.
Said: Chu is a remote and humble country. Do you have anything to teach me?
Zhang Yi lobbied the King of Chu and said: If the king really wants to listen to my advice, he will cut off all ties with Qi and terminate the alliance. I am willing to ask the King of Qin to donate 600 miles of land to the Shang Dynasty, and let the women of Qin serve as concubines to serve the king.
The king of Chu was very happy to agree to his request.
The ministers came to congratulate the King of Chu, but only Chen Zhen mourned for him.
The King of Chu said angrily: I gained 600 miles of land without deploying troops or generals. My ministers congratulated me, but you were the only one who mourned for me. Why?
Chen Zhen replied: No, in my opinion, the land in Shangyu area will not only be unavailable, but Qi and Qin may also unite.
If Qi and Qin unite, great disaster will come to Chu. The king of Chu said: Can you explain the reason?
Chen Zhen replied: The reason why Qin valued Chu was because Chu had an alliance with Qi.
Now that all ties with Qi are cut off and the alliance is abrogated, Chu will be isolated.
Why did Qin not be content with pursuing an isolated and helpless Chu State, but gave it 600 miles of land?


Chunk 8: 
original: 
张仪至秦，必负王，是北绝齐交，西生患於秦也，而两国之兵必俱至。
善为王计者，不若阴合而阳绝於齐，使人随张仪。
苟与吾地，绝齐未晚也；不与吾地，阴合谋计也。
楚王曰： 原陈子闭口毋复言，以待寡人得地。
乃以相印授张仪，厚赂之。
於是遂闭关绝约於齐，使一将军随张仪。
张仪至秦，详失绥堕车，不朝三月。楚王闻之，曰： 仪以寡人绝齐未甚邪？
乃使勇士至宋，借宋之符，北骂齐王。齐王大怒，折节而下秦。
秦齐之交合，张仪乃朝，谓楚使者曰： 臣有奉邑六里，原以献大王左右。
楚使者曰： 臣受令於王，以商於之地六百里，不闻六里。
还报楚王，楚王大怒，发兵而攻秦。
陈轸曰： 轸可发口言乎？
攻之不如割地反以赂秦，与之并兵而攻齐，是我出地於秦，取偿於齐也，王国尚可存。
translation: 
When Zhang Yi returns to Qin, he will definitely break his promise to the king. This means severing diplomatic relations with Qi to the north and inviting disaster from Qin to the west. The armies of the two countries will inevitably attack Chu together.
I have properly come up with a countermeasure for the king. It is better to secretly unite with Qi State and sever relations on the surface, and send people to follow Zhang Yi to Qin State.
If Qin gives us land, it is not too late to sever diplomatic relations with Qi; if Qin does not give us land, it is in line with our strategy.
The King of Chu said: I hope Mr. Chen will shut up, stop talking, and wait until I get the land of Qin.
He gave Zhang Yi the seal of approval and also gave him a large amount of property.
So he severed relations with Qi, abolished the alliance, and sent a general to follow Zhang Yi to Qin to take over the land.
Zhang Yi returned to Qin State and pretended not to hold on to the rope of the carriage. He fell off the carriage and was injured. He did not go to court for three months. When the King of Chu heard about this, he said, "Isn't Zhang Yi because I have not completely severed ties with Qi State?"
He sent warriors to the Song Dynasty, borrowed Song's talisman, and went to the northern Qi State to insult the King of Qi. The Qi King was angry, cut off the talisman, and aggrievedly made friends with Qin.
Qin and Qi established diplomatic relations, and Zhang Yi came to court. He said to the envoy of the Chu State: I have a six-mile fiefdom granted by the King of Qin, and I am willing to dedicate it to the King of Chu.
The envoy from the Chu State said: I am here to take over Shang Yu's land of six hundred miles under the order of the King of Chu. I have never heard of six miles.
The envoy reported back to the King of Chu. The King of Chu was so angry that he immediately sent out troops to attack Qin.
Chen Zhen said: Can I open my mouth and speak?
Instead of attacking Qin, it is better to cede land to bribe Qin and join forces with him to attack Qi. We will take back the land we ceded to Qin and take it back from Qi as compensation. In this way, your country can still survive.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
楚王不听，卒发兵而使将军屈匄击秦。
秦齐共攻楚，斩首八万，杀屈匄，遂取丹阳、汉中之地。
楚又复益发兵而袭秦，至蓝田，大战，楚大败，於是楚割两城以与秦平。
秦要楚欲得黔中地，欲以武关外易之。
楚王曰： 不原易地，原得张仪而献黔中地。
秦王欲遣之，口弗忍言。
张仪乃请行。
惠王曰： 彼楚王怒子之负以商於之地，是且甘心於子。
张仪曰： 秦彊楚弱，臣善靳尚，尚得事楚夫人郑袖，袖所言皆从。
且臣奉王之节使楚，楚何敢加诛。
假令诛臣而为秦得黔中之地，臣之上原。
遂使楚。
楚怀王至则囚张仪，将杀之。
靳尚谓郑袖曰： 子亦知子之贱於王乎？
郑袖曰： 何也？
靳尚曰： 秦王甚爱张仪而不欲出之，今将以上庸之地六县赂楚，美人聘楚，以宫中善歌讴者为媵。
楚王重地尊秦，秦女必贵而夫人斥矣。
不若为言而出之。
於是郑袖日夜言怀王曰： 人臣各为其主用。
今地未入秦，秦使张仪来，至重王。
王未有礼而杀张仪，秦必大怒攻楚。
妾请子母俱迁江南，毋为秦所鱼肉也。
怀王後悔，赦张仪，厚礼之如故。
张仪既出，未去，闻苏秦死，乃说楚王曰： 秦地半天下，兵敌四国，被险带河，四塞以为固。
translation: 
The King of Chu refused to listen and finally sent out his army and general Qu Gai to attack Qin.
Qin and Qi jointly attacked Chu, killing 80,000 officers and soldiers, and Qu Gai, and then seized the lands of Danyang and Hanzhong.
The State of Chu sent more troops to attack the State of Qin. They went to Lantian and launched a large-scale battle. The Chu army was defeated, so the State of Chu ceded two more cities and made peace with Qin.
Qin threatened Chu and wanted to get the land in Guizhou, and wanted to exchange it for land outside Wuguan.
The King of Chu said: I am not willing to exchange land. As long as I get Zhang Yi, I am willing to give up the central Guizhou area.
The King of Qin wanted to send Zhang Yi away, but he couldn't bear to say it.
Zhang Yi asked to go.
King Hui said: "The King of Chu is angry that your husband broke his promise to give Shang land, and he is deliberately retaliating against you."
Zhang Yi said: Qin is strong and Chu is weak. I have a good relationship with Jin Shang, the official of Chu. Jin Shang can flatter Zheng Xiu, the wife of Chu, and the king of Chu will obey all Zheng Xiu's words.
Besides, I was sent as an envoy to the State of Chu on the order of the king. How dare the king of Chu kill me?
If you kill me and obtain the land in central Guizhou for Qin, this is also my highest wish.
So he went to Chu as an envoy.
King Huai of Chu imprisoned Zhang Yi as soon as he arrived, intending to kill him.
Jin Shang said to Zheng Xiu: Do you know that you will be despised by the king?
Zheng Xiu said: Why?
Jin Shang said that the King of Qin loved Zhang Yi very much and planned to rescue him from captivity. Now he would use the land of the six counties of Shangyong to bribe the Chu State, marry a beautiful woman to the King of Chu, and use the women in the palace who are good at singing as dowries.
If the king of Chu values ​​the land, he will respect Qin. The beauties of Qin will be favored and honored, but the ladies will also be despised.
It is better to intercede for Zhang Yi and release him from prison.
So Zheng Xiu appealed to King Huai day and night, saying: As ministers, each serves his country.
Now that the land has not been handed over to Qin, King Qin sent Zhang Yi here, showing his respect for the king to the extreme.
If the king kills Zhang Yi before he returns the favor, the king of Qin will definitely be furious and send troops to attack Chu.
I request that we, mother and son, be allowed to move to the south of the Yangtze River and not be bullied and slaughtered by the Qin State like fish.
King Huai regretted it, pardoned Zhang Yi, and entertained him as generously as before.
Not long after Zhang Yi was released from prison, but before he left, he heard that Su Qin had passed away, so he persuaded King Huai of Chu: "Qin's land occupies half of the world, its military strength can withstand countries in all directions, its borders are dangerous, the Yellow River flows across it, and there are fortified areas on all sides that can be defended."


Chunk 10: 
original: 
虎贲之士百馀万，车千乘，骑万匹，积粟如丘山。
法令既明，士卒安难乐死，主明以严，将智以武，虽无出甲，席卷常山之险，必折天下之脊，天下有後服者先亡。
且夫为从者，无以异於驱群羊而攻猛虎，虎之与羊不格明矣。
今王不与猛虎而与群羊，臣窃以为大王之计过也。
凡天下彊国，非秦而楚，非楚而秦，两国交争，其势不两立。
大王不与秦，秦下甲据宜阳，韩之上地不通。
下河东，取成皋，韩必入臣，梁则从风而动。
秦攻楚之西，韩、梁攻其北，社稷安得毋危？
且夫从者聚群弱而攻至彊，不料敌而轻战，国贫而数举兵，危亡之术也。
臣闻之，兵不如者勿与挑战，粟不如者勿与持久。
translation: 
There are more than one million brave warriors, thousands of chariots, and tens of thousands of horses, and the stores of food are piled up like mountains.
The law is strict, the soldiers do not shy away from hardships and dangers, and are willing to sacrifice for the country. The king is wise and majestic, and the generals are wise and brave. Even if the army is not dispatched, its prestige can sweep across the dangerous Changshan Mountains and break the backbone of the world. The countries that surrender after the world will be destroyed first.
Moreover, those countries that have joined forces to compete with Qin are no more than driving sheep to attack ferocious tigers. It is very obvious that tigers and sheep are not equal opponents.
Nowadays, the king is not attached to the tiger but to the sheep. I privately think that the king's plan is wrong.
Today, the most powerful countries in the world are either Qin or Chu, and either Chu or Qin. The two countries are at war with each other. Judging from their situation, it is impossible for both countries to exist.
If the king does not ally himself with Qin, Qin will send troops to occupy Yiyang first, and South Korea's land will be cut off.
If the Qin State sends troops to attack Hedong again and seizes Chenggao, South Korea will inevitably go to Qin State to become a vassal, and the Wei State will take action upon hearing the news.
Qin attacked the west of Chu, and South Korea and Wei attacked the north of Chu. How could Chu not be in danger?
Moreover, those who advocate alliance gather a group of weak countries to attack the most powerful country, and easily launch wars without weighing the strength of the enemy countries. The country is poor and often fights wars. This is a strategy that puts the country into danger.
I have heard that if your military strength is not as strong as other countries, you should not start a war; if your food supply is not as abundant as others, you should not fight for a long time.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
夫从人饰辩虚辞，高主之节，言其利不言其害，卒有秦祸，无及为已。
是故原大王之孰计之。
秦西有巴蜀，大船积粟，起於汶山，浮江已下，至楚三千馀里。
舫船载卒，一舫载五十人与三月之食，下水而浮，一日行三百馀里，里数虽多，然而不费牛马之力，不至十日而距扞关。
扞关惊，则从境以东尽城守矣，黔中、巫郡非王之有。
秦举甲出武关，南面而伐，则北地绝。
秦兵之攻楚也，危难在三月之内，而楚待诸侯之救，在半岁之外，此其势不相及也。
夫弱国之救，忘彊秦之祸，此臣所以为大王患也。
大王尝与吴人战，五战而三胜，阵卒尽矣；偏守新城，存民苦矣。
translation: 
Those who advocated the merger of verticals whitewashed their words, made empty remarks, exaggerated the integrity of their monarchs, and only talked about the benefits of the merger of verticals, not the harm it brought. Suddenly, the Qin State was in trouble, and it was too late to deal with it.
So I hope your Majesty will consider this issue carefully.
The Qin State owned Bajun and Shujun in the west. They loaded large ships with grain, set out from Wenshan, and floated down the river to the Chu State for more than three thousand miles.
The two ships transport soldiers side by side, and one ship can carry fifty people and three months' worth of food. It can travel more than three hundred miles a day down the river. Even though the distance is long, it does not take up the effort of oxen and horses, and it can be reached in less than ten days.
Once the situation of defending the border becomes tense, all countries east of the border will have to defend the city. Qianzhong and Wujun will no longer belong to you, your Majesty.
The Qin State mobilized its troops out of Wuguan and attacked southward, cutting off the northern part of the Chu State.
If the Qin army attacks Chu, it will only take three months for Chu to be in danger. However, it will take more than half a year for Chu to wait for rescue from other princes. Judging from the situation, it is too late.
Relying on the rescue of weak countries and ignoring the disasters caused by strong Qin is why I worry about your king.
Your Majesty once fought against the Wu people, and won three of the five battles. All the soldiers on the battlefield were killed. The Chu army was guarding the newly occupied city in a remote place, but the living people were working too hard.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
臣闻功大者易危，而民敝者怨上。
夫守易危之功而逆彊秦之心，臣窃为大王危之。
且夫秦之所以不出兵函谷十五年以攻齐、赵者，阴谋有合天下之心。
楚尝与秦构难，战於汉中，楚人不胜，列侯执珪死者七十馀人，遂亡汉中。
楚王大怒，兴兵袭秦，战於蓝田。
此所谓两虎相搏者也。
夫秦楚相敝而韩魏以全制其後，计无危於此者矣。
原大王孰计之。
秦下甲攻卫阳晋，必大关天下之匈。
大王悉起兵以攻宋，不至数月而宋可举，举宋而东指，则泗上十二诸侯尽王之有也。
translation: 
I have heard that a king who has achieved too much is likely to be in danger, and the people will resent the king when they are tired and distressed.
I secretly feel danger for the king by waiting for the exploits that are prone to danger and go against Qiang Qin's wishes.
The reason why Qin did not send troops to Hangu Pass to attack Qi and Zhao for fifteen years was because Qin secretly planned to annex the world in one fell swoop.
The State of Chu once caused trouble to the State of Qin. The two sides fought a battle in Hanzhong. The State of Chu did not win, but more than 70 people in the rank of Hou Zhigui died in the battle, and Hanzhong was lost.
The king was angry and sent troops to attack Qin again, and fought another battle in Lantian.
This is what is called a fight between two tigers.
Qin and Chu were fighting each other and were exhausted. South Korea and Wei used their full national strength to attack from behind. There is no more dangerous strategy than this.
I hope your Majesty will consider it carefully.
If the Qin State sends out troops to capture Yangjin, the capital of the Wei State, it will surely cut off the world's transportation arteries like locking the chest of the world.
The king dispatched all the troops to attack the Song Dynasty. Within a few months, the Song Dynasty would be captured. After capturing the Song Dynasty and marching eastward, many small countries in the Si River Basin would all belong to the king.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
凡天下而以信约从亲相坚者苏秦，封武安君，相燕，即阴与燕王谋伐破齐而分其地；乃详有罪出走入齐，齐王因受而相之；居二年而觉，齐王大怒，车裂苏秦於市。
夫以一诈伪之苏秦，而欲经营天下，混一诸侯，其不可成亦明矣。
今秦与楚接境壤界，固形亲之国也。
大王诚能听臣，臣请使秦太子入质於楚，楚太子入质於秦，请以秦女为大王箕帚之妾，效万室之都以为汤沐之邑，长为昆弟之国，终身无相攻伐。
臣以为计无便於此者。
於是楚王已得张仪而重出黔中地与秦，欲许之。
屈原曰： 前大王见欺於张仪，张仪至，臣以为大王烹之；今纵弗忍杀之，又听其邪说，不可。
怀王曰： 许仪而得黔中，美利也。
後而倍之，不可。
故卒许张仪，与秦亲。
张仪去楚，因遂之韩，说韩王曰： 韩地险恶山居，五穀所生，非菽而麦，民之食大抵菽藿羹。
一岁不收，收不餍糟。
地不过九百里，无二岁之食。
translation: 
The person who persuades all countries in the world to unite and stick to their covenants by faith is Su Qin. He was named Lord Wu'an and served as the prime minister of Yan, but he secretly planned with King Yan to conquer Qi and divide its land. He pretended to be guilty of King Yan and fled to Qi. King Qi took him in and made him prime minister. Two years later, when he was discovered, King Qi was furious and cut Su Qin's five horses into pieces on the execution ground.
It is obvious that Su Qin, a treacherous and hypocritical man, wants to run the whole world and unite the princes into one body. His strategy cannot succeed.
Today, the State of Qin and the State of Chu are adjacent to each other, and they should be close countries geographically.
If the king can listen to my suggestion, I would like to ask the king of Qin to send the prince to the state of Chu to be a hostage. The state of Chu will send the prince to the state of Qin to be a hostage. The daughter of the king of Qin will be married to the king, and a city with 10,000 households will be donated to the king. It will be the place where the king collects taxes and supplies Tang and Mu's tools. We will always be brothers and neighbors and never fight each other for life.
I don’t think there is a more appropriate strategy than this.
At this time, although the King of Chu had obtained Zhang Yi, it was difficult for him to give up the land in central Guizhou to Qin, and he wanted to agree to Zhang Yi's suggestion.
Qu Yuan said: The last time the king was deceived by Zhang Yi, when Zhang Yi came to Chu, I thought the king would boil him to death with a cauldron. Now that he has been released, I can't bear to kill him and still listen to his evil words. This is not good.
King Huai said: Agreeing to Zhang Yi's suggestion can save the land in central Guizhou, which is a good and beneficial thing.
It's not okay to betray him after you've already promised.
So he finally agreed to Zhang Yi's suggestion and formed an alliance with Qin.
Zhang Yi left Chu State and took the opportunity to go to South Korea and persuaded the King of Han: South Korea has a dangerous terrain and people live in mountainous areas. The food produced is either wheat or beans. Most of the food people eat is bean rice and bean leaf soup.
If there is no income for a year, people will not be able to eat even such poor food as chaff.
The land is less than 900 miles, and the food stored cannot last two years.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
料大王之卒，悉之不过三十万，而厮徒负养在其中矣。
除守徼亭鄣塞，见卒不过二十万而已矣。
秦带甲百馀万，车千乘，骑万匹，虎贲之士跿跼科头贯颐奋戟者，至不可胜计。
秦马之良，戎兵之众，探前趹後蹄间三寻腾者，不可胜数。
山东之士被甲蒙胄以会战，秦人捐甲徒裼以趋敌，左挈人头，右挟生虏。
夫秦卒与山东之卒，犹孟贲之与怯夫；以重力相压，犹乌获之与婴兒。
夫战孟贲、乌获之士以攻不服之弱国，无异垂千钧之重於鸟卵之上，必无幸矣。
夫群臣诸侯不料地之寡，而听从人之甘言好辞，比周以相饰也，皆奋曰 听吾计可以彊霸天下 。
夫不顾社稷之长利而听须臾之说，诖误人主，无过此者。
translation: 
It is estimated that the total number of the king's soldiers does not exceed 300,000, including those orderlies and logistics personnel.
Excluding the soldiers guarding the posthouses and border fortresses, the existing army is only 200,000.
The Qin State's armed forces numbered more than one million, with thousands of chariots and tens of thousands of horses. The brave warriors galloped and leaped forward, without helmets and armed with weapons, and they threw themselves at the enemy in anger, too many to count.
The war horses of the Qin State are excellent. The horses gallop with their front hooves raised and their hind hooves in the air. They can jump more than two feet in one leap. There are so many such horses that they are countless.
The soldiers of the Six Kingdoms of Shandong wore helmets and armor to fight, but the Qin army threw off their shirts, barefooted and pounced on the enemy, holding heads in their left hand and prisoners in their right.
Compared with the soldiers of the Six Kingdoms of Shandong, the soldiers of Qin are like the brave strongman Meng Ben and the weak cowards; pressing down with huge power is like the brave strongman Wu Huo fighting against a baby.
Using armies like Meng Ben and Wu Huo to attack weak and disobedient countries is tantamount to putting the weight of Qian Jun on a bird's egg. There must be no lucky results.
Those princes and ministers did not estimate the smallness of their own land, but listened to the sweet words of those who advocated consolidation. They formed cliques for personal gain and covered up each other. They all said excitedly: If you follow my strategy, you can dominate the world.
There is nothing more serious than listening to a moment's lobbying and misleading the monarch regardless of the country's long-term interests.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
大王不事秦，秦下甲据宜阳，断韩之上地，东取成皋、荥阳，则鸿台之宫、桑林之苑非王之有也。
夫塞成皋，绝上地，则王之国分矣。
先事秦则安，不事秦则危。
夫造祸而求其福报，计浅而怨深，逆秦而顺楚，虽欲毋亡，不可得也。
故为大王计，莫如为秦。秦之所欲莫如弱楚，而能弱楚者如韩。
非以韩能彊於楚也，其地势然也。
今王西面而事秦以攻楚，秦王必喜。
夫攻楚以利其地，转祸而说秦，计无便於此者。
韩王听仪计。
张仪归报，秦惠王封仪五邑，号曰武信君。
使张仪东说齐湣王曰： 天下彊国无过齐者，大臣父兄殷众富乐。
然而为大王计者，皆为一时之说，不顾百世之利。
从人说大王者，必曰 齐西有彊赵，南有韩与梁。齐，负海之国也，地广民众，兵彊士勇，虽有百秦，将无柰齐何 。
大王贤其说而不计其实。
夫从人朋党比周，莫不以从为可。
translation: 
If the king does not serve the Qin State, and the Qin State sends out armed forces to occupy Yiyang, cuts off the land of South Korea, and seizes Chenggao and Xingyang to the east, then the palace of Hongtai and the forest garden of the mulberry forest will no longer be owned by the king.
Besides, by blocking Chenggao and cutting off Shangdi, the king's territory was divided.
First of all, if you serve the state of Qin, you will be safe; if you don't serve the state of Qin, you will be in danger.
It is impossible to avoid destruction even if you want to avoid destruction by creating disasters but seeking auspicious rewards, short-sighted and baseless strategies that create deep hatred, and disobeying Qin and obeying Chu.
Therefore, I am planning for the king. It is better to help Qin. What Qin hopes for is nothing more important than weakening Chu. Among the countries that can weaken Chu, no one can compare with South Korea.
It's not because South Korea is stronger than Chu, but because of South Korea's geographical situation.
Now, if the king goes west to serve Qin and attack Chu, the king of Qin will definitely be very happy.
There is no more suitable strategy than attacking Chu to gain benefits from its land, diverting one's own troubles and making Qin happy.
The King of Han listened to Zhang Yi's strategy.
Zhang Yi returned to Qin to report, and King Qin Hui rewarded him with five cities and the title of Wu Xinjun.
He also sent Zhang Yi to the east to persuade King Min of Qi: "There is no country more powerful than Qi in the world. The ministers and their father and brothers are prosperous, rich and happy."
However, those who advise the king do so for temporary pleasure, regardless of the long-term interests of the country.
Those who advocate the alliance will definitely say to the king: Qi State has the powerful Zhao State to the west, South Korea and Wei State to the south. Qi State is a country with its back to the sea. It has a vast land, a large population, a strong army, and brave soldiers. Even if there are a hundred Qin States, Qi State will be helpless.
The king thought their statement was very clever, but failed to consider the actual situation.
Those who advocate cooperation and cooperation form parties to pursue selfish interests and exclude dissidents. They all believe that cooperation is feasible.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
臣闻之，齐与鲁三战而鲁三胜，国以危亡随其後，虽有战胜之名，而有亡国之实。
是何也？
齐大而鲁小也。
今秦之与齐也，犹齐之与鲁也。
秦赵战於河漳之上，再战而赵再胜秦；战於番吾之下，再战又胜秦。
四战之後，赵之亡卒数十万，邯郸仅存，虽有战胜之名而国已破矣。
是何也？
秦彊而赵弱。
今秦楚嫁女娶妇，为昆弟之国。
韩献宜阳；梁效河外；赵入朝渑池，割河间以事秦。
大王不事秦，秦驱韩梁攻齐之南地，悉赵兵渡清河，指博关，临菑、即墨非王之有也。
国一日见攻，虽欲事秦，不可得也。是故原大王孰计之也。
齐王曰： 齐僻陋，隐居东海之上，未尝闻社稷之长利也。
乃许张仪。
张仪去，西说赵王曰： 敝邑秦王使使臣效愚计於大王。
translation: 
I heard that Qi and Lu fought three battles, and Lu defeated them three times, but the country perished as a result. Even though it had the reputation of victory, it suffered the reality of the country's destruction.
Why is this?
Qi is strong but Lu is weak.
Now, Qin State is compared with Qi State, just like Qi State is compared with Lu State.
Qin and Zhao fought on the banks of the Zhang River, and they fought twice and defeated Qin twice; they fought under Fanwu City, and they fought twice and defeated Qin twice.
After four battles, hundreds of thousands of Zhao soldiers were killed, and only Handan could be saved. Even though Zhao had a reputation of victory, the country was in dire straits.
Why is this?
Qin is strong but Zhao is weak.
Now Qin and Chu are marrying off their daughters and marrying off their wives, forming brothers and allies.
South Korea offered Yiyang, Wei offered Hewai, Zhao paid homage to the King of Qin in Mianchi, and ceded Hejian to serve Qin.
If the king does not serve Qin, Qin will force South Korea and Wei to attack the south of Qi. All Zhao's troops will be dispatched, cross the Qinghe River, and directly attack Boguan and Linyi. Jimo will no longer be owned by the king.
Once the country is attacked, even if you want to serve Qin, it will be impossible, so I hope the king will consider it carefully.
The King of Qi said: Qi is a remote and backward country, located on the edge of the East China Sea, isolated from the world. It has never heard the truth about the long-term interests of the country.
So he agreed to Zhang Yi’s suggestion.
Zhang Yi left Qi State and went west to persuade King Zhao: "The King of Qin in our city sent me, this envoy, to offer my immature opinions to the king."


Chunk 17: 
original: 
大王收率天下以宾秦，秦兵不敢出函谷关十五年。
大王之威行於山东，敝邑恐惧慑伏，缮甲厉兵，饰车骑，习驰射，力田积粟，守四封之内，愁居慑处，不敢动摇，唯大王有意督过之也。
今以大王之力，举巴蜀，并汉中，包两周，迁九鼎，守白马之津。
秦虽僻远，然而心忿含怒之日久矣。
今秦有敝甲凋兵，军於渑池，原渡河逾漳，据番吾，会邯郸之下，原以甲子合战，以正殷纣之事，敬使使臣先闻左右。
凡大王之所信为从者恃苏秦。
苏秦荧惑诸侯，以是为非，以非为是，欲反齐国，而自令车裂於市。
夫天下之不可一亦明矣。
今楚与秦为昆弟之国，而韩梁称为东籓之臣，齐献鱼盐之地，此断赵之右臂也。
夫断右臂而与人斗，失其党而孤居，求欲毋危，岂可得乎？
今秦发三将军：其一军塞午道，告齐使兴师渡清河，军於邯郸之东；一军军成皋，驱韩梁军於河外；一军军於渑池。
约四国为一以攻赵，赵，必四分其地。
translation: 
The king led all the princes in the world to resist Qin. The soldiers and people of Qin did not dare to leave Hangu Pass for fifteen years.
The king's prestige spreads all over Shandong. Our city is frightened and surrenders without daring to act rashly. We reorganize our armaments, sharpen our weapons, rectify our chariots and horses, practice horse racing and archery, work hard to cultivate the land, store food, and guard the four borders. We live in sorrow and fear, not daring to make a slight move, just for fear that the king intends to deeply blame us for our mistakes.
Now, with the help of the king's supervision, the Qin State has conquered Ba and Shu, annexed Hanzhong, captured the Eastern Zhou Dynasty and the Western Zhou Dynasty, moved away the Nine Tripod treasures, and guarded the White Horse Ferry.
Although the Qin State is located in a remote and remote area, the days of depression and resentment in the heart are too long.
Now, there is a remnant of Qin's defeated army stationed in Mianchi. They are planning to cross the Yellow River, cross the Zhang River, occupy Fanwu, and meet with your army at the foot of Handan City. They hope to fight with your army on the Jiazi day to imitate King Wu's past actions of conquering Zhou. Therefore, the King of Qin solemnly sent envoys to warn the king and his cronies.
The reason why the king believed in launching the joint vertical alliance was because of Su Qin.
Su Qin confuses the princes, saying what is right is wrong, and what is wrong is right. He wants to oppose the state of Qi, and he himself has them quartered on the execution ground.
It is obvious that the princes of the world cannot be unified.
Now, Chu and Qin have formed a brotherly alliance, while South Korea and Wei have surrendered to Qin and become vassals in the east. Qi has dedicated a place rich in fish and salt, which is equivalent to cutting off the right arm of Zhao.
How can it be possible to cut off his right arm and fight with others, to lose his accomplices and to be isolated and helpless, and to not put the country in danger?
Now, Qin State sent three armies: one army blocked the Meridian Road, notified Qi State to mobilize troops to cross the Qinghe River, and stationed in the east of Handan; one army stationed in Chenggao, driving the troops of South Korea and Wei to station outside the river; one army stationed in Mianchi.
It was agreed that the armies of the four countries would unite as one to attack the State of Zhao. If the State of Zhao was defeated, its land would inevitably be divided among the four countries.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
是故不敢匿意隐情，先以闻於左右。
臣窃为大王计，莫如与秦王遇於渑池，面相见而口相结，请案兵无攻。
原大王之定计。
赵王曰： 先王之时，奉阳君专权擅势，蔽欺先王，独擅绾事，寡人居属师傅，不与国谋计。
先王弃群臣，寡人年幼，奉祀之日新，心固窃疑焉，以为一从不事秦，非国之长利也。
乃且原变心易虑，割地谢前过以事秦。
方将约车趋行，適闻使者之明诏。
赵王许张仪，张仪乃去。
北之燕，说燕昭王曰： 大王之所亲莫如赵。
昔赵襄子尝以其姊为代王妻，欲并代，约与代王遇於句注之塞。乃令工人作为金斗，长其尾，令可以击人。
与代王饮，阴告厨人曰： 即酒酣乐，进热啜，反斗以击之。
於是酒酣乐，进热啜，厨人进斟，因反斗以击代王，杀之，王脑涂地。
translation: 
Therefore, I dare not conceal the true situation, so I will first tell it to the king’s close associates.
I am thinking privately for your Majesty that it would be better to meet with the King of Qin in Mianchi, face to face, and make a verbal agreement, requesting that the troops stand still and not attack.
I hope the king will make up his mind.
King Zhao said: When the late king was still alive, Fengyang Lord monopolized power, deceived and deceived the late king, and controlled political affairs alone. I still lived in the palace, studied as a teacher, and did not participate in the planning of national affairs.
When the late king abandoned his ministers and passed away, I was still young and had not inherited the throne for a long time. I really secretly doubted this approach and believed that it was not in the long-term interests of our country to unite all countries as one and not serve Qin.
So, I decided to change my mind, get rid of my doubts, cede the land to make up for my past mistakes, and serve Qin.
I was about to prepare my carriage and go to apologize, when I happened to hear your wise teachings.
King Zhao agreed to Zhang Yi's suggestion, and Zhang Yi left.
He went north to the State of Yan and persuaded King Zhao of Yan: "The country closest to your Majesty is the State of Zhao."
In the past, Zhao Xiangzi married his sister to the king of Dai. He wanted to annex the country of Dai. He agreed to meet the king of Dai at Juzhu Fortress, so he ordered the craftsmen to make a gold bucket and lengthen the handle so that it could be used to kill people.
King Zhao and King Dai were drinking and secretly told the kitchen worker: When the wine is full and happy, you serve hot soup and take the opportunity to turn the handle of the bucket over and kill him.
So when they were drinking to their heart's content, and the hot soup was served, the cook took advantage of the golden bucket, turned the handle over and hit King Dai, killing him. King Dai's brains flowed all over the floor.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
其姊闻之，因摩笄以自刺，故至今有摩笄之山。
代王之亡，天下莫不闻。
夫赵王之很戾无亲，大王之所明见，且以赵王为可亲乎？
赵兴兵攻燕，再围燕都而劫大王，大王割十城以谢。
今赵王已入朝渑池，效河间以事秦。
今大王不事秦，秦下甲云中、九原，驱赵而攻燕，则易水、长城非大王之有也。
且今时赵之於秦犹郡县也，不敢妄举师以攻伐。
今王事秦，秦王必喜，赵不敢妄动，是西有彊秦之援，而南无齐赵之患，是故原大王孰计之。
燕王曰： 寡人蛮夷僻处，虽大男子裁如婴兒，言不足以采正计。
今上客幸教之，请西面而事秦，献恆山之尾五城。
燕王听仪。
仪归报，未至咸阳而秦惠王卒，武王立。
translation: 
When King Zhao's sister heard about this, she sharpened her hairpin and committed suicide, so the mountain still has a name called Moji.
Everyone in the world knows about King Dai's death.
King Zhao is violent and eccentric, and he does not recognize his relatives. The king has a clear understanding, so can he still think that King Zhao can get close to him?
The State of Zhao dispatched troops to attack the State of Yan, and besieged the capital of the State of Yan twice to kidnap the king. The king even ceded ten cities to apologize to him.
Now, the King of Zhao has gone to Mianchi to pay homage to the King of Qin and dedicated the land in the Hejian area to serve the Qin State.
Now, if your Majesty does not serve Qin, Qin will send its armed forces to Yunzhong and Jiuyuan, and drive Zhao to attack Yan. Then Yishui and the Great Wall will no longer be owned by your Majesty.
Moreover, the current Zhao State is like the relationship between counties and counties to Qin State, and it does not dare to send out troops to attack other countries at will.
Now, if the king serves Qin, the king of Qin will be happy, and Zhao will not dare to act rashly. This means that the west has the support of the powerful Qin, and the south has relieved the worries of Qi and Zhao, so I hope the king will consider it carefully.
King Yan said: I am like a barbarian in a backward and remote place. Even the people here are just like babies, and their words cannot lead to correct decisions.
Now, thanks to the teachings of your distinguished guest, I am willing to serve the Qin State to the west and dedicate the five cities at the foot of Mount Heng.
King Yan listened to Zhang Yi's suggestion.
Zhang Yi reported back to King Qin, but before he could reach Xianyang, King Qin Hui died and King Wu came to the throne.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
武王自为太子时不说张仪，及即位，群臣多谗张仪曰： 无信，左右卖国以取容。
秦必复用之，恐为天下笑。
诸侯闻张仪有卻武王，皆畔衡，复合从。
秦武王元年，群臣日夜恶张仪未已，而齐让又至。
张仪惧诛，乃因谓秦武王曰： 仪有愚计，原效之。 王曰： 柰何？
对曰： 为秦社稷计者，东方有大变，然後王可以多割得地也。
今闻齐王甚憎仪，仪之所在，必兴师伐之。
故仪原乞其不肖之身之梁，齐必兴师而伐梁。
梁齐之兵连於城下而不能相去，王以其间伐韩，入三川，出兵函谷而毋伐，以临周，祭器必出。
挟天子，按图籍，此王业也。
translation: 
King Wu disliked Zhang Yi when he was the crown prince. When he succeeded to the throne, many ministers said bad things about Zhang Yi: Zhang Yi was dishonest, inconsistent, and betrayed the country to gain favor from the king.
The State of Qin must appoint him again, for fear that he will be laughed at by the people of the world.
When the princes heard that there was a rift between Zhang Yi and King Wu, they all betrayed the Lianheng policy and resumed the Hezong alliance.
In the first year of King Wu of Qin, ministers slandered Zhang Yi day and night, and Qi State sent people to blame Zhang Yi.
Zhang Yi was afraid of being killed, so he took the opportunity to say to King Wu of Qin: I have an immature plan that I hope to dedicate to the king. King Wu said: What should I do?
He replied: For the sake of Qin's country, big changes must occur in the eastern countries, so that the king can ask other countries to cede more land.
Now, I heard that King Qi hates me very much. As long as I am in any country, he will definitely send out troops to attack it.
Therefore, I hope that if an incompetent person like me is allowed to go to the State of Wei, the State of Qi will inevitably send out troops to attack the State of Wei.
When the armies of Wei and Qi were fighting in the city and no one could return, the king took advantage of this gap to attack South Korea and invaded Sanchuan. The army marched out of Hangu Pass instead of attacking other countries, and marched directly to the capital of Zhou. The Emperor of Zhou would definitely offer sacrifices.
The king can hold the emperor hostage and master the map and household registration of the world. This is the achievement of an emperor.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
秦王以为然，乃具革车三十乘，入仪之梁。齐果兴师伐之。梁哀王恐。
张仪曰： 王勿患也，请令罢齐兵。
乃使其舍人冯喜之楚，借使之齐，谓齐王曰： 王甚憎张仪；虽然，亦厚矣王之讬仪於秦也！
齐王曰： 寡人憎仪，仪之所在，必兴师伐之，何以讬仪？
对曰： 是乃王之讬仪也。
夫仪之出也，固与秦王约曰： 为王计者，东方有大变，然後王可以多割得地。
今齐王甚憎仪，仪之所在，必兴师伐之。
故仪原乞其不肖之身之梁，齐必兴师伐之。齐梁之兵连於城下而不能相去，王以其间伐韩，入三川，出兵函谷而无伐，以临周，祭器必出。
挟天子，案图籍，此王业也。
秦王以为然，故具革车三十乘而入之梁也。
今仪入梁，王果伐之，是王内罢国而外伐与国，广邻敌以内自临，而信仪於秦王也。
此臣之所谓 讬仪 也。 齐王曰： 善。
乃使解兵。
张仪相魏一岁，卒於魏也。
translation: 
The King of Qin thought what he said was right, so he prepared thirty military chariots to send Zhang Yi to the State of Wei. The King of Qi indeed sent out troops to attack the State of Wei, and King Ai of Liang was very frightened.
Zhang Yi said: Your Majesty, don't worry, I will ask Qi to stop its troops.
He sent his retainer Feng happy to the state of Chu, and then borrowed envoys from the state of Chu to go to the state of Qi. He said to King Qi: Your Majesty hates Zhang Yi very much. Despite this, your Majesty has done enough to allow Zhang Yi to rely on Qin.
King Qi said: I hate Zhang Yi. Wherever Zhang Yi is, I must send troops to attack somewhere. How can I give Zhang Yi something to rely on?
He replied: This is why the king gave Zhang Yi something to rely on.
When Zhang Yi left Qin, he originally made an agreement with the King of Qin: For the sake of the King, big changes must occur in the countries in the east so that the King can gain more land.
Now Qi State hates me very much. Whichever country I am in, he will definitely send troops to attack that country.
So I hope that if an incompetent person like me is allowed to go to Wei State, Qi State will definitely send out troops to attack Wei State. When the armies of Wei State and Qi State are fighting in the city and no one can return to the army and leave, the king will use this gap to attack South Korea and enter Sanchuan. The army will march out of Hangu Pass instead of attacking other countries and advance directly. When the troops approach the capital of Zhou, the Emperor of Zhou will definitely offer sacrifices.
The king can hold the emperor hostage and master the map and household registration of the world. This is the achievement of an emperor.
The King of Qin thought that what he said was right, so he prepared thirty military chariots and sent Zhang Yi to Wei.
Now, Zhang Yi went to Wei State, and the king indeed attacked it. This was because the king exhausted the country and attacked the countries with which he had established diplomatic relations. He established enemies extensively and brought disaster to himself, but Zhang Yi gained the trust of Qin State.
This is what I mean by giving Zhang Yi something to rely on. King Qi said: OK.
The war against Wei was ended.
Zhang Yi served as the prime minister of Wei for one year and died in Wei.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
陈轸者，游说之士。
与张仪俱事秦惠王，皆贵重，争宠。
张仪恶陈轸於秦王曰： 轸重币轻使秦楚之间，将为国交也。
今楚不加善於秦而善轸者，轸自为厚而为王薄也。
且轸欲去秦而之楚，王胡不听乎？
王谓陈轸曰： 吾闻子欲去秦之楚，有之乎？ 轸曰： 然。
王曰： 仪之言果信矣。
轸曰： 非独仪知之也，行道之士尽知之矣。
昔子胥忠於其君而天下争以为臣，曾参孝於其亲而天下原以为子。
故卖仆妾不出闾巷而售者，良仆妾也；出妇嫁於乡曲者，良妇也。
今轸不忠其君，楚亦何以轸为忠乎？
忠且见弃，轸不之楚何归乎？
王以其言为然，遂善待之。
居秦期年，秦惠王终相张仪，而陈轸奔楚。楚未之重也，而使陈轸使於秦。
translation: 
Chen Zhen is a lobbying strategist.
He and Zhang Yi served King Hui of Qin together, and they were both highly regarded and distinguished, and they competed with each other for the favor of King Qin.
Zhang Yi slandered Chen Zhen in front of the King of Qin and said: Chen Zhen freely traveled between Qin and Chu with generous gifts, and he should be working for the country's diplomacy.
Now the Chu State has not become more friendly to the Qin State but is friendly to Chen Zhen. This shows that Chen Zhen has more plans for himself and less for the king.
Moreover, Chen Zhen wanted to leave Qin and go to Chu. Why didn’t the king hear about it?
The King of Qin said to Chen Zhen: I heard that your husband wants to leave Qin and go to Chu. Is there such a thing? Chen Zhen said: Yes.
King Qin said: Zhang Yi's words are indeed credible.
Chen Zhen said: Not only Zhang Yi knew about this, but also the passers-by.
In the past Wu Zixu was loyal to his king, and all the kings in the world wanted him to be their minister. Zeng Shen was filial to his parents, and all the parents in the world wanted him to be their son.
Therefore, the slaves and concubines who were betrayed were sold before they left the alley, because they were all good slaves; the abandoned wives could still be married off in their own hometown, because they were all good women.
Now, if Chen Zhen is not loyal to his king, why does Chu think that Chen Zhen can be loyal to him?
Loyalty was abandoned. If Chen Zhen didn't go to Chu, where would he go?
King Qin thought what he said was right, so he treated him well.
Chen Zhen spent a whole year in Qin. King Qin Hui finally appointed Zhang Yi as prime minister, and Chen Zhen defected to Chu. The king of Chu did not reuse him, but sent him as an envoy to Qin.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
过梁，欲见犀首。犀首谢弗见。
轸曰： 吾为事来，公不见轸，轸将行，不得待异日。
犀首见之。
陈轸曰： 公何好饮也？
犀首曰： 无事也。
曰： 吾请令公厌事可乎？
曰： 柰何？
曰： 田需约诸侯从亲，楚王疑之，未信也。
公谓於王曰： 臣与燕、赵之王有故，数使人来，曰： 无事何不相见 ，原谒行於王。
王虽许公，公请毋多车，以车三十乘，可陈之於庭，明言之燕、赵。
燕、赵客闻之，驰车告其王，使人迎犀首。
楚王闻之大怒，曰： 田需与寡人约，而犀首之燕、赵，是欺我也。
怒而不听其事。
齐闻犀首之北，使人以事委焉。犀首遂行，三国相事皆断於犀首。轸遂至秦。
韩魏相攻，期年不解。
translation: 
He passed by Wei State and wanted to see Xishou, but Xishou declined and refused to see him.
Chen Zhen said, "I came here because I have something to do. If you don't see me, I have to leave. I can't wait until the next day."
Rhinoceros Head met him.
Chen Zhen said: Why do you like drinking?
Rhinoceros Head said: There is nothing to do.
Chen Zhen said: I will give you a lot to do, okay?
Rhinoceros Head said: What should I do?
Chen Zhen said: Tian needed to gather all the countries to have a blind date, but the king of Chu doubted him and did not believe him.
You said to the King of Wei: I have old friendships with the kings of Yan and Zhao. They have sent people to me many times and said: Why don’t we meet each other when we have nothing to do. I hope you will go and see our king.
Even if the King of Wei agrees to let you go, you don't need more cars. You just need to arrange thirty cars in the courtyard and publicly say that you are going to the countries of Yan and Zhao.
After hearing the news, the diplomats of Yan and Zhao hurriedly drove to report to their monarchs and sent people to greet the rhinoceros head.
When the King of Chu heard the news, he was very angry and said: Tian needs to make an appointment with me, but Xishou goes to Yan and Zhao. This is deceiving me.
The King of Chu was very angry and ignored Tian Xian's affairs.
When the Qi State heard that Xishou was heading to the north, he sent someone to entrust the country's political affairs to him, and the Xishou went to the Qi State. In this way, the affairs of the prime ministers of the three countries were all decided by the Xishou. Chen Zhen then returned to the Qin State.
South Korea and Wei were at war, and there was no reconciliation for a whole year.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
秦惠王欲救之，问於左右。
左右或曰救之便，或曰勿救便，惠王未能为之决。
陈轸適至秦，惠王曰： 子去寡人之楚，亦思寡人不？
陈轸对曰： 王闻夫越人庄舄乎？
王曰： 不闻。
曰： 越人庄舄仕楚执珪，有顷而病。
楚王曰： 舄故越之鄙细人也，今仕楚执珪，贵富矣，亦思越不？
中谢对曰： 凡人之思故，在其病也。彼思越则越声，不思越则楚声。
使人往听之，犹尚越声也。
今臣虽弃逐之楚，岂能无秦声哉！ 惠王曰： 善。
今韩魏相攻，期年不解，或谓寡人救之便，或曰勿救便，寡人不能决，原子为子主计之馀，为寡人计之。
陈轸对曰： 亦尝有以夫卞庄子刺虎闻於王者乎？
translation: 
King Qin Hui planned to reconcile them and asked his close associates for their opinions.
Some of the cronies on the left and right said it would be beneficial for them to reconcile, while others said it would be beneficial not to reconcile. King Hui could not make a decision on this matter.
Chen Zhen happened to return to the state of Qin. King Hui said: Sir, you left me and went to the state of Chu. Do you also miss me?
Chen Zhen replied: "Has your Majesty heard of Zhuang Fan, a native of Yue?"
King Hui said: I haven't heard of it.
Chen Zhen said: Zhuang Fan, a Yue man, became ill soon after he attained the title of Zhi Gui as an official in the State of Chu.
The King of Chu said: Zhuang Fan was originally a low-status person in the Yue Kingdom. Now he has reached the title of Zhigui and has become rich. I wonder if he still misses the Yue Kingdom?
Zhong Xie replied: Generally, people miss their hometown when they are sick. If Zhuang Xi misses the country of Yue, he will use the accent of the country of Yue when he groans. If he does not miss the country of Yue, he will use the tune of the state of Chu.
The King of Chu sent people to eavesdrop, but Zhuang Shun still spoke in the Yue accent.
Now, even if I am abandoned and run to Chu, will I lose the Qin accent? King Hui said: Well said.
Now Korea and Wei are at war, which has not been resolved for a whole year. Some people say to me that it is beneficial for them to reconcile, and some people say it is beneficial for them not to reconcile. I cannot make a decision. I hope that besides making suggestions for your monarch, you can also give me some advice.
Chen Zhen replied: Has anyone ever told the king about Bian Zhuangzi's murder of a tiger?


Chunk 25: 
original: 
庄子欲刺虎，馆竖子止之，曰： 两虎方且食牛，食甘必争，争则必斗，斗则大者伤，小者死，从伤而刺之，一举必有双虎之名。
卞庄子以为然，立须之。有顷，两虎果斗，大者伤，小者死。庄子从伤者而刺之，一举果有双虎之功。
今韩魏相攻，期年不解，是必大国伤，小国亡，从伤而伐之，一举必有两实。
此犹庄子刺虎之类也。
臣主与王何异也。
惠王曰： 善。
卒弗救。
大国果伤，小国亡，秦兴兵而伐，大剋之。此陈轸之计也。
犀首者，魏之阴晋人也，名衍，姓公孙氏。与张仪不善。
张仪为秦之魏，魏王相张仪。
犀首弗利，故令人谓韩公叔曰： 张仪已合秦魏矣，其言曰 魏攻南阳，秦攻三川 。
魏王所以贵张子者，欲得韩地也。
translation: 
Zhuangzi was about to kill the tiger, but a boy in the hotel stopped him and said: Two tigers are eating cows. When they get the taste of the cow, they will definitely fight. Once they fight, the big one will be injured and the small one will die. If you chase the injured tiger and assassinate it, you will definitely gain the reputation of assassinating both tigers.
Bian Zhuang thought what he said made sense, and stood aside to wait for them. Soon, the two tigers fought. As a result, the older one was injured and the younger one died. Zhuangzi caught up with the injured tiger and killed it. As expected, he got the credit for killing both tigers.
Nowadays, the war between Han and Wei cannot be resolved for a year. This will inevitably damage the big country and perish the small country. If you pursue the injured country and attack it, this crusade will definitely gain two fruits of victory.
This is like Zhuangzi killing a tiger.
What is the difference between me advising for my king and advising for the king?
King Hui said: Well said.
Finally they were not reconciled.
As expected, the big countries were hurt and the small ones were in danger. Qin took the opportunity to send troops to attack them and defeated them. This was Chen Zhen's strategy.
Xishou was from the Yin and Jin Dynasties of the Wei State. His name is Yan and his surname is Gongsun. She has a bad relationship with Zhang Yi.
Zhang Yi went to Wei for the sake of Qin, and the king of Wei appointed Zhang Yi as prime minister.
Xishou thought it was disadvantageous for him, so he sent people to tell Han Gongshu: Zhang Yi has asked Qin and Wei to unite. He threatened: Wei will attack Nanyang, and Qin will attack Sanchuan.
The reason why King Wei valued Zhang Yi was because he wanted to obtain the land of Korea.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
且韩之南阳已举矣，子何不少委焉以为衍功，则秦魏之交可错矣。
然则魏必图秦而弃仪，收韩而相衍。
公叔以为便，因委之犀首以为功。
果相魏。张仪去。
义渠君朝於魏。
犀首闻张仪复相秦，害之。
犀首乃谓义渠君曰： 道远不得复过，请谒事情。
曰： 中国无事，秦得烧掇焚于君之国；有事，秦将轻使重币事君之国。
其後五国伐秦。会陈轸谓秦王曰： 义渠君者，蛮夷之贤君也，不如赂之以抚其志。 秦王曰： 善。
乃以文绣千纯，妇女百人遗义渠君。义渠君致群臣而谋曰： 此公孙衍所谓邪？
乃起兵袭秦，大败秦人李伯之下。
张仪已卒之後，犀首入相秦。
尝佩五国之相印，为约长。
太史公曰：三晋多权变之士，夫言从衡彊秦者大抵皆三晋之人也。
夫张仪之行事甚於苏秦，然世恶苏秦者，以其先死，而仪振暴其短以扶其说，成其衡道。
要之，此两人真倾危之士哉！
translation: 
Besides, Nanyang in South Korea has been occupied. Why don't you entrust some political affairs to Gongsun Yan and ask him to go to the King of Wei to ask for credit? Then the exchanges between Qin and Wei will stop.
If this is the case, then Wei must seek to conquer Qin and abandon Zhang Yi, make friends with South Korea, and let Gongsun Yan serve as prime minister.
The uncle thought this was beneficial, so he entrusted political affairs to Xishou and asked him to contribute.
As expected, Xishou became the prime minister of Wei, and Zhang Yi left Wei.
Lord Yiqu came to pay homage to King Wei.
Xishou heard that Zhang Yi had become the prime minister of Qin again, and he was very jealous.
Xishou said to Mr. Yiqu: "Your country is far away. Today we are parting ways. It will be difficult to meet here again. Please allow me to tell you something."
He continued: If all the countries in the Central Plains do not unite to attack Qin, Qin will burn and plunder your country. If all the countries in the Central Plains unite to attack Qin, Qin will send lightly-armed envoys with valuable gifts to serve your country.
After that, the five kingdoms of Chu, Wei, Qi, Han, and Zhao jointly attacked Qin. Just then, Chen Zhen said to the king of Qin: Lord Yiqu is a wise monarch among the barbarian countries. It is better to give him money to appease his aspirations. King Qin said: OK.
So he presented a thousand pieces of brocade and a hundred beauties to Lord Yiqu. Lord Yiqu summoned his ministers for discussion and said, "Is this what Gongsun Yan told me?"
So he raised troops to attack Qin and defeated the Qin army under Li Bo City.
After Zhang Yi died, Xishou went to Qin to serve as prime minister.
He once wore the seals of five countries and became the leader of the Five-Nation Alliance.
Tai Shigong said: The Three Jin Dynasties produced many adaptable people. Those who advocated vertical and horizontal alliances to make Qin strong were mostly from the Three Jin Dynasties.
Zhang Yi's actions were worse than Su Qin's, but the reason why the society hates Su Qin is because he died first and Zhang Yi's publicity exposed the shortcomings of his collusive policy, which was used to echo his own ideas and promote the border policy.
All in all, these two are truly sinister people.


