Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 2, 3, 4, 14, 20]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
秦始皇帝者，秦庄襄王子也。
庄襄王为秦质子於赵，见吕不韦姬，悦而取之，生始皇。
以秦昭王四十八年正月生於邯郸。
及生，名为政，姓赵氏。
年十三岁，庄襄王死，政代立为秦王。
当是之时，秦地已并巴、蜀、汉中，越宛有郢，置南郡矣；北收上郡以东，有河东、太原、上党郡；东至荥阳，灭二周，置三川郡。
吕不韦为相，封十万户，号曰文信侯。
招致宾客游士，欲以并天下。
李斯为舍人。蒙骜、王齮、麃公等为将军。
王年少，初即位，委国事大臣。
晋阳反，元年，将军蒙骜击定之。
二年，麃公将卒攻卷，斩首三万。
三年，蒙骜攻韩，取十三城。
王齮死。
十月，将军蒙骜攻魏氏畼有诡。
岁大饥。
四年，拔畼有诡。
三月，军罢。
秦质子归自赵，赵太子出归国。
十月庚寅，蝗蟲从东方来，蔽天。
天下疫。
百姓内粟千石，拜爵一级。
五年，将军骜攻魏，定酸枣、燕、虚、长平、雍丘、山阳城，皆拔之，取二十城。
初置东郡。
冬雷。
六年，韩、魏、赵、卫、楚共击秦，取寿陵。
秦出兵，五国兵罢。
拔卫，迫东郡，其君角率其支属徙居野王，阻其山以保魏之河内。
七年，彗星先出东方，见北方，五月见西方。
将军骜死。
以攻龙、孤、庆都，还兵攻汲。
彗星复见西方十六日。
夏太后死。
八年，王弟长安君成蟜将军击赵，反，死屯留，军吏皆斩死，迁其民於临洮。
将军壁死，卒屯留、蒲鶮反，戮其尸。
河鱼大上，轻车重马东就食。
嫪毐封为长信侯。
予之山阳地，令毐居之。
宫室车马衣服苑囿驰猎恣毐。
translation: 
The First Emperor of Qin was the son of King Zhuangxiang of Qin.
When King Zhuang Xiang was a hostage of Qin in Zhao, he saw Lu Buwei's concubine and liked her very much, so he married her and gave birth to the first emperor.
The First Emperor was born in Handan in the first month of the forty-eighth year of King Zhao of Qin.
When he was born, he was named Zheng and his surname was Zhao.
At the age of thirteen, King Zhuang Xiang died, and Zheng succeeded him as King of Qin.
At that time, the Qin State had annexed Ba, Shu, and Hanzhong, crossed Wan, occupied Ying, and established Nanjun; went north to the east of Shangjun, and occupied Hedong, Taiyuan, and Shangdang counties; east to Rongyang, eliminated the Western Zhou and Eastern Zhou Dynasties, and established Sanchuan County.
Lu Buwei became prime minister, granted a fief of 100,000 households, and was named Marquis Wenxin.
Recruiting guests and tourists, intending to annex the world.
Li Si was Shiren, and Meng Ao, Wang Jue, Hegong and others were generals.
The King of Qin was young and in the early days of his accession to the throne, state affairs were left to the ministers.
Jinyang rebelled, and in the first year of Qin Wangzheng's reign, General Meng Ao put down the rebellion.
In the second year, Duke He led his army to attack Juanyi and killed 30,000 people.
In three years, Meng Ao attacked South Korea and captured thirteen cities.
Wang Ye is dead.
In the tenth month, General Meng Ao attacked Wei's Yi and Yougui.
This year the food harvest failed.
In four years, he conquered Yi and Yougui.
In March, the troops were withdrawn.
The hostages of Qin returned from Zhao, and the prince of Zhao left Qin and returned to Zhao.
In October Gengyin, locusts flew from the east and covered the sky.
Plague in the world.
The common people paid a thousand stones of corn to pay one level of nobility.
In the fifth year, General Meng Ao attacked the Wei State and pacified the cities of Suanzao, Yanyi, Xuyi, Changping, Yongqiu, and Shanyang. They all conquered them by force, and captured twenty cities in total.
Start setting up East County.
Thunder in winter.
In six years, South Korea, Wei, Zhao, Wei, and Chu attacked Qin together and captured Shouling.
Qin sent troops, and the armies of the five countries withdrew.
The Qin State conquered the Wei State and invaded Dongjun. Wei Junjiao led his relatives to move to Yewang, relying on the mountain dangers to defend the Hanoi area within the Wei State.
In seven years, the comet first appeared in the east. Appeared again in the north. Appears in the West in May.
General Meng Ao died.
It was because he attacked Longyi, Guyi and Qingdu, and then returned to attack Jiyi.
The comet appeared in the west for another sixteen days.
Queen Mother Xia is dead.
In the eighth year, Zhao Chengyu, the younger brother of King Zhao Zheng of Qin, led an army to attack Zhao. Tunliu rebelled. As a result, all his officers were killed and the people there were moved to Lintao.
The general who came to attack Cheng Xi died, and the soldier Pu Hao who stayed in the camp rebelled again and died in battle. After his death, he was tortured by whipping his body.
Fish from the Yellow River rushed to the shore in large numbers, and people drove carriages to the east to find food.
Lao Ai was granted the title of Marquis Changxin.
Give him the Shanyang region to live in.
There are no restrictions on Lao Ai in terms of palaces, carriages and horses, clothing, gardens, and hunting.

summary:
summary line 0: The First Emperor of Qin, son of King Zhuangxiang of Qin, was born Zheng in Handan in the first month of the forty-eighth year of King Zhao of Qin. At thirteen, he succeeded as King of Qin after his father's death. The Qin state had already expanded significantly, annexing territories like Ba, Shu, Hanzhong, and establishing commanderies. Lu Buwei served as prime minister, with Li Si as a retainer and Meng Ao, Wang Jue, and others as generals. Due to the king's youth, state affairs were managed by ministers.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
秦始皇帝者，秦庄襄王子也。
庄襄王为秦质子於赵，见吕不韦姬，悦而取之，生始皇。
以秦昭王四十八年正月生於邯郸。
及生，名为政，姓赵氏。
年十三岁，庄襄王死，政代立为秦王。
当是之时，秦地已并巴、蜀、汉中，越宛有郢，置南郡矣；北收上郡以东，有河东、太原、上党郡；东至荥阳，灭二周，置三川郡。
吕不韦为相，封十万户，号曰文信侯。
招致宾客游士，欲以并天下。
李斯为舍人。蒙骜、王齮、麃公等为将军。
王年少，初即位，委国事大臣。
晋阳反，元年，将军蒙骜击定之。
二年，麃公将卒攻卷，斩首三万。
三年，蒙骜攻韩，取十三城。
王齮死。
十月，将军蒙骜攻魏氏畼有诡。
岁大饥。
四年，拔畼有诡。
三月，军罢。
秦质子归自赵，赵太子出归国。
十月庚寅，蝗蟲从东方来，蔽天。
天下疫。
百姓内粟千石，拜爵一级。
五年，将军骜攻魏，定酸枣、燕、虚、长平、雍丘、山阳城，皆拔之，取二十城。
初置东郡。
冬雷。
六年，韩、魏、赵、卫、楚共击秦，取寿陵。
秦出兵，五国兵罢。
拔卫，迫东郡，其君角率其支属徙居野王，阻其山以保魏之河内。
七年，彗星先出东方，见北方，五月见西方。
将军骜死。
以攻龙、孤、庆都，还兵攻汲。
彗星复见西方十六日。
夏太后死。
八年，王弟长安君成蟜将军击赵，反，死屯留，军吏皆斩死，迁其民於临洮。
将军壁死，卒屯留、蒲鶮反，戮其尸。
河鱼大上，轻车重马东就食。
嫪毐封为长信侯。
予之山阳地，令毐居之。
宫室车马衣服苑囿驰猎恣毐。
translation: 
The First Emperor of Qin was the son of King Zhuangxiang of Qin.
When King Zhuang Xiang was a hostage of Qin in Zhao, he saw Lu Buwei's concubine and liked her very much, so he married her and gave birth to the first emperor.
The First Emperor was born in Handan in the first month of the forty-eighth year of King Zhao of Qin.
When he was born, he was named Zheng and his surname was Zhao.
At the age of thirteen, King Zhuang Xiang died, and Zheng succeeded him as King of Qin.
At that time, the Qin State had annexed Ba, Shu, and Hanzhong, crossed Wan, occupied Ying, and established Nanjun; went north to the east of Shangjun, and occupied Hedong, Taiyuan, and Shangdang counties; east to Rongyang, eliminated the Western Zhou and Eastern Zhou Dynasties, and established Sanchuan County.
Lu Buwei became prime minister, granted a fief of 100,000 households, and was named Marquis Wenxin.
Recruiting guests and tourists, intending to annex the world.
Li Si was Shiren, and Meng Ao, Wang Jue, Hegong and others were generals.
The King of Qin was young and in the early days of his accession to the throne, state affairs were left to the ministers.
Jinyang rebelled, and in the first year of Qin Wangzheng's reign, General Meng Ao put down the rebellion.
In the second year, Duke He led his army to attack Juanyi and killed 30,000 people.
In three years, Meng Ao attacked South Korea and captured thirteen cities.
Wang Ye is dead.
In the tenth month, General Meng Ao attacked Wei's Yi and Yougui.
This year the food harvest failed.
In four years, he conquered Yi and Yougui.
In March, the troops were withdrawn.
The hostages of Qin returned from Zhao, and the prince of Zhao left Qin and returned to Zhao.
In October Gengyin, locusts flew from the east and covered the sky.
Plague in the world.
The common people paid a thousand stones of corn to pay one level of nobility.
In the fifth year, General Meng Ao attacked the Wei State and pacified the cities of Suanzao, Yanyi, Xuyi, Changping, Yongqiu, and Shanyang. They all conquered them by force, and captured twenty cities in total.
Start setting up East County.
Thunder in winter.
In six years, South Korea, Wei, Zhao, Wei, and Chu attacked Qin together and captured Shouling.
Qin sent troops, and the armies of the five countries withdrew.
The Qin State conquered the Wei State and invaded Dongjun. Wei Junjiao led his relatives to move to Yewang, relying on the mountain dangers to defend the Hanoi area within the Wei State.
In seven years, the comet first appeared in the east. Appeared again in the north. Appears in the West in May.
General Meng Ao died.
It was because he attacked Longyi, Guyi and Qingdu, and then returned to attack Jiyi.
The comet appeared in the west for another sixteen days.
Queen Mother Xia is dead.
In the eighth year, Zhao Chengyu, the younger brother of King Zhao Zheng of Qin, led an army to attack Zhao. Tunliu rebelled. As a result, all his officers were killed and the people there were moved to Lintao.
The general who came to attack Cheng Xi died, and the soldier Pu Hao who stayed in the camp rebelled again and died in battle. After his death, he was tortured by whipping his body.
Fish from the Yellow River rushed to the shore in large numbers, and people drove carriages to the east to find food.
Lao Ai was granted the title of Marquis Changxin.
Give him the Shanyang region to live in.
There are no restrictions on Lao Ai in terms of palaces, carriages and horses, clothing, gardens, and hunting.

summary:
summary line 1: In the early years of his reign, Qin faced rebellions and military campaigns. Meng Ao suppressed a revolt in Jinyang and later attacked Wei, capturing twenty cities. The king faced challenges including a locust plague, famine, and a coalition attack from five states. In the eighth year, Lao Ai was granted the title of Marquis Changxin and given extensive authority. The following year, his conspiracy to rebel was discovered, leading to a battle in Xianyang. Lao Ai was captured, and his followers were executed or exiled. Lu Buwei was removed as prime minister due to his involvement.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
而李斯用事。
十一年，王翦、桓齮、杨端和攻鄴，取九城。
王翦攻阏与、橑杨，皆并为一军。
翦将十八日，军归斗食以下，什推二人从军取鄴安阳，桓齮将。
十二年，文信侯不韦死，窃葬。
其舍人临者，晋人也逐出之；秦人六百石以上夺爵，迁；五百石以下不临，迁，勿夺爵。
自今以来，操国事不道如嫪毐、不韦者籍其门，视此。
秋，复嫪毐舍人迁蜀者。
当是之时，天下大旱，六月至八月乃雨。
十三年，桓齮攻赵平阳，杀赵将扈辄，斩首十万。
王之河南。
正月，彗星见东方。
十月，桓齮攻赵。
十四年，攻赵军於平阳，取宜安，破之，杀其将军。
桓齮定平阳、武城。
韩非使秦，秦用李斯谋，留非，非死云阳。
韩王请为臣。
十五年，大兴兵，一军至鄴，一军至太原，取狼孟。
地动。
十六年九月，发卒受地韩南阳假守腾。
初令男子书年。
魏献地於秦。
秦置丽邑。
十七年，内史腾攻韩，得韩王安，尽纳其地，以其地为郡，命曰颍川。
地动。
华阳太后卒。
民大饥。
十八年，大兴兵攻赵，王翦将上地，下井陉，端和将河内，羌瘣伐赵，端和围邯郸城。
十九年，王翦、羌瘣尽定取赵地东阳，得赵王。
引兵欲攻燕，屯中山。
秦王之邯郸，诸尝与王生赵时母家有仇怨，皆阬之。
秦王还，从太原、上郡归。
始皇帝母太后崩。
translation: 
At this time, Li Si was in charge of the government.
In the eleventh year, Wang Jian, Huan , and Yang Duanhe attacked Ye Yi and captured nine cities.
Wang Jian attacked Dinglanyu and Puyang, and combined all the soldiers into one army.
Wang Jian took command of the entire army. After eighteen days, he deported the useless personnel in the army who were below the level of fighting, and elected two out of ten people to join the army. Huan  led the troops to capture Yeyi and Puyang.
In the twelfth year, Wenxinhou Lu Buwei died and was buried privately.
If Lu Buwei's family members come to mourn, if they are Jin people, they will be expelled; if they are Qin people, those with a salary of more than 600 shi will have their title removed and moved away from their old residence. If no one comes to mourn him with a salary of less than 500 shi, they will also move away from their old residence without losing their title.
From then on, those who govern the country's political affairs, like Lao Ai and Lu Buwei, are rebellious and unruly, and their whole family will be confiscated, and they will be dealt with in this way.
In autumn, Lao'ai's family members who were supposed to move to Shu were pardoned.
At that time, there was a severe drought for six months, and it didn't rain until August.
In the thirteenth year, Huan  attacked Pingyang of the State of Zhao, killed the general of the State of Zhao, Hu Zou, and beheaded 100,000 people.
King Zhao fled to Henan.
In the first month of the year, comets appear in the east.
In October, Huan  attacked Zhao.
In the fourteenth year, he attacked the Zhao army in Pingyang, captured Yi'an, defeated the Zhao army and killed its general.
Huan  pacified Pingyang and Wucheng.
Han Fei went to Qin as an envoy, and Qin adopted Li Si's plan and detained Han Fei in Qin. Han Fei died in Yunyang.
The King of Han requested to be a vassal of Qin.
In the fifteenth year, the State of Qin sent out a large number of troops. One army arrived in Yeyi and another army arrived in Taiyuan and captured Langmeng.
An earthquake occurs.
In September of the 16th year, troops were sent to take over the Nanyang area of ​​South Korea, and Teng temporarily acted as the county governor.
Men were ordered to register their age.
Wei State donated land to Qin State.
Qin established Liyi.
In the seventeenth year, Neishiteng attacked South Korea, captured Han Wangan, annexed all South Korean territory, and set up a county in its territory, named Yingchuan.
An earthquake occurs.
Queen Mother Huayang died.
The people suffered from severe famine.
In the eighteenth year, a large number of troops were sent to attack the State of Zhao. Wang Jian led the soldiers from Shangdi to capture Jingxing. Yang Duanhe led the Hanoi soldiers, Qiang Yu also led his army to attack Zhao, and Yang Duanhe besieged Handan City.
In the 19th year, Wang Jian and Qiang You all captured and pacified the Dongyang area of ​​​​Zhao and captured the king of Zhao.
He led his troops to prepare to attack Yan State and stationed his troops in Zhongshan.
When the King of Qin came to Handan, he killed all those who had a grudge against his mother's family when he was born in the State of Zhao.
The King of Qin returned to Qin from Taiyuan and Shangjun.
The Empress Dowager, the mother of the First Emperor, passed away.

summary:
summary line 2: The king implemented policies to strengthen Qin, including expelling guest officials, though Li Si's counsel led to the revocation of this order. Wei Liao advised bribing enemy officials, a strategy the king adopted. Military campaigns continued, with Wang Jian and others attacking Zhao and capturing cities. In the seventeenth year, Qin conquered Han, establishing Yingchuan Commandery. The conquest of Zhao followed, with the king personally executing those who had wronged his mother's family in Handan.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
赵公子嘉率其宗数百人之代，自立为代王，东与燕合兵，军上谷。
大饥。
二十年，燕太子丹患秦兵至国，恐，使荆轲刺秦王。
秦王觉之，体解轲以徇，而使王翦、辛胜攻燕。
燕、代发兵击秦军，秦军破燕易水之西。
二十一年，王贲攻荆。
乃益发卒诣王翦军，遂破燕太子军，取燕蓟城，得太子丹之首。
燕王东收辽东而王之。
王翦谢病老归。新郑反。
昌平君徙於郢。
大雨雪，深二尺五寸。
二十二年，王贲攻魏，引河沟灌大梁，大梁城坏，其王请降，尽取其地。
二十三年，秦王复召王翦，彊起之，使将击荆。
取陈以南至平舆，虏荆王。
秦王游至郢陈。
荆将项燕立昌平君为荆王，反秦於淮南。
二十四年，王翦、蒙武攻荆，破荆军，昌平君死，项燕遂自杀。
二十五年，大兴兵，使王贲将，攻燕辽东，得燕王喜。
还攻代，虏代王嘉。
王翦遂定荆江南地；降越君，置会稽郡。
五月，天下大酺。
二十六年，齐王建与其相后胜发兵守其西界，不通秦。
秦使将军王贲从燕南攻齐，得齐王建。
秦初并天下，令丞相、御史曰： 异日韩王纳地效玺，请为籓臣，已而倍约，与赵、魏合从畔秦，故兴兵诛之，虏其王。
寡人以为善，庶几息兵革。
赵王使其相李牧来约盟，故归其质子。
已而倍盟，反我太原，故兴兵诛之，得其王。
赵公子嘉乃自立为代王，故举兵击灭之。魏王始约服入秦，已而与韩、赵谋袭秦，秦兵吏诛，遂破之。
荆王献青阳以西，已而畔约，击我南郡，故发兵诛，得其王，遂定其荆地。
燕王昏乱，其太子丹乃阴令荆轲为贼，兵吏诛，灭其国。
齐王用后胜计，绝秦使，欲为乱，兵吏诛，虏其王，平齐地。
寡人以眇眇之身，兴兵诛暴乱，赖宗庙之灵，六王咸伏其辜，天下大定。
translation: 
Prince Jia of the State of Zhao led several hundred people from his clan to Dai, proclaimed himself King of Dai, and united with the army of the State of Yan eastward, stationed in Shanggu.
A severe famine occurred during this year.
Twenty years ago, Crown Prince Dan of Yan State was worried about Qin's army coming to Yan State. He was panic-stricken and sent Jing Ke to assassinate the King of Qin.
The King of Qin noticed this, dismembered Jing Ke's body and paraded it to the public, and sent Wang Jian and Xin Sheng to attack Yan.
Yan and Dai sent troops to attack the Qin army, and the Qin army defeated the Yan army west of Yishui.
In the twenty-first year, Wang Ben attacked Jingdi.
He dispatched more soldiers to Wang Jian's army, defeated Prince Yan's army, captured Jicheng of Yan State, and obtained Prince Dan's head.
King Yan went east to gather troops from Liaodong and proclaimed himself king there.
Wang Jian excused himself from illness and retired to his hometown. Xinzheng rebelled.
Lord Changping moved to Yingdi.
It snowed heavily, the snow was two feet five inches deep.
In the 22nd year, Wang Ben attacked Wei and dug ditches to divert water from the river to flood Daliang. The city wall of Daliang was destroyed. King Wei asked for surrender, and Qin occupied all Wei territory.
In the twenty-third year, the King of Qin recruited Wang Jian again, insisted on using him, and sent him to lead the army to attack Jing State.
They captured the area from the south of Chendi to Pingyu and captured King Jing.
The king of Qin arrived at Yingchen on his parade.
Jing general Xiang Yan established Lord Changping as King of Jing and raised troops south of the Huai River to rebel against Qin.
In the twenty-fourth year, Wang Jian and Meng Wu attacked Jingdi and defeated the Jing army. Lord Changping died in the battle, and Xiang Yan committed suicide.
In the twenty-fifth year, he sent out a large number of troops, sent Wang Ben as general, led the army to attack the Liaodong area of ​​Yan State, and captured King Xi of Yan.
He returned to attack the state of Dai and captured Dai Wangjia.
Wang Jian pacified the Jiangnan area of ​​Jing State, surrendered Yuejun, and established Kuaiji County.
In May, the whole world gathers for a feast.
In the twenty-sixth year, King Jian of Qi and Prime Minister Housheng of Qi dispatched troops to defend the western border and not to have any contact with Qin.
Qin State sent general Wang Bi from Yan State to the south to attack Qi State and captured Qi Wang Jian.
Qin had just annexed the world and ordered the prime minister and censor to say: Some time ago, the king of Han handed over the land, dedicated the king's seal, and asked to become a vassal. Soon he broke the agreement and joined forces with Zhao and Wei to betray Qin, so I raised an army to attack and captured the king of South Korea.
I thought this was a good thing, and we could probably stop fighting.
King Zhao sent his prime minister Li Mu to sign the treaty, so he sent back his son who was a hostage.
Soon the State of Zhao betrayed the alliance and raised an army to resist in Taiyuan, our country, so I launched an army to attack and captured its king.
Prince Jia of Zhao established himself as the acting king, so I sent troops to destroy him. King Wei initially agreed to surrender to Qin, but soon conspired with South Korea and Zhao to attack Qin. Qin officials went to attack and destroyed Wei.
King Jing offered the land west of Qingyang, but soon broke the agreement and attacked Nanjun of our country. So I sent troops to attack, captured the king of Jing, and pacified the land of Jing.
The King of Yan was fatuous and chaotic, and his Crown Prince Dan secretly ordered Jing Ke to be an assassin. The officials of Qin went to attack him and destroyed his country.
The King of Qi adopted the strategy of victory later and did not allow the Qin envoys to enter the Qi State. He planned to raise troops to cause chaos. I sent officers to attack, captured the King of Qi, and pacified the Qi State.
With my insignificant body, I sent out troops to suppress the rebellion. Relying on the power of the ancestral temple, the kings of the six countries have all accepted their crimes, and the world is completely peaceful.

summary:
summary line 3: The assassination attempt by Jing Ke of Yan failed, leading to Qin's attack on Yan. Wang Jian and others captured Yan's capital and obtained Prince Dan's head. Wei was conquered by diverting rivers to flood Daliang. Jing (Chu) was attacked, with Wang Jian capturing King Jing. Xiang Yan's rebellion was suppressed, and by the twenty-fifth year, Yan, Dai, and Qi were all conquered, unifying China.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
今名号不更，无以称成功，传後世。
其议帝号。
丞相绾、御史大夫劫、廷尉斯等皆曰： 昔者五帝地方千里，其外侯服夷服诸侯或朝或否，天子不能制。
今陛下兴义兵，诛残贼，平定天下，海内为郡县，法令由一统，自上古以来未尝有，五帝所不及。
臣等谨与博士议曰： 古有天皇，有地皇，有泰皇，泰皇最贵。
臣等昧死上尊号，王为 泰皇 。
命为 制 ，令为 诏 ，天子自称曰 朕 。
王曰： 去 泰 ，著 皇 ，采上古 帝 位号，号曰 皇帝 。
他如议。
制曰： 可。
追尊庄襄王为太上皇。
制曰： 朕闻太古有号毋谥，中古有号，死而以行为谥。
如此，则子议父，臣议君也，甚无谓，朕弗取焉。
自今已来，除谥法。
朕为始皇帝。
後世以计数，二世三世至于万世，传之无穷。
始皇推终始五德之传，以为周得火德，秦代周，德从所不胜。
方今水德之始，改年始，朝贺皆自十月朔。衣服旄旌节旗皆上黑。
数以六为纪，符、法冠皆六寸，而舆六尺，六尺为步，乘六马。
更名河曰德水，以为水德之始。
刚毅戾深，事皆决於法，刻削毋仁恩和义，然後合五德之数。
於是急法，久者不赦。
丞相绾等言： 诸侯初破，燕、齐、荆地远，不为置王，毋以填之。
请立诸子，唯上幸许。
始皇下其议於群臣，群臣皆以为便。
廷尉李斯议曰： 周文武所封子弟同姓甚众，然後属疏远，相攻击如仇雠，诸侯更相诛伐，周天子弗能禁止。
今海内赖陛下神灵一统，皆为郡县，诸子功臣以公赋税重赏赐之，甚足易制。
天下无异意，则安宁之术也。
置诸侯不便。
始皇曰： 天下共苦战斗不休，以有侯王。赖宗庙，天下初定，又复立国，是树兵也，而求其宁息，岂不难哉！
廷尉议是。
分天下以为三十六郡，郡置守、尉、监。
更名民曰 黔首 。
translation: 
If we don't change the name now, we can't praise the achievements of the establishment and pass them on to future generations.
Please agree on an imperial title.
Prime Minister Wang Wan, Imperial Censor Feng Jie, and Tingwei Li Si all said: In the past, the Five Emperors governed an area thousands of miles square. Outside this area, some princes paid tribute and some princes did not pay tribute, so the emperor could not control them.
Now His Majesty is dispatching rebels to punish thieves, pacify the world, set up counties and counties within the four seas, and unify laws. This has never happened since ancient times, and it is beyond the reach of the five emperors.
We discussed it carefully with the doctors, and they all said that in ancient times, there were emperors of heaven, emperors of earth, and emperors of Thailand, and the emperor of Thailand was the noblest.
We risked the death penalty to offer our title, and the king was called "Emperor of Thailand".
The emperor's order is called "Zhi", the emperor's order is called "Zhao", and the emperor calls himself "Zhen".
The King of Qin said: Remove the word "Tai" and leave the word "huang". Use the ancient word "emperor" to express status and title, and call it "emperor".
Other opinions as agreed.
Give the order and say: OK.
Pursuing King Zhuang Xiang as the Supreme Emperor.
The emperor issued an order and said: I heard that in ancient times, there were titles but no posthumous titles. In the Middle Ages, there were titles. Posthumous titles were determined after death based on the deeds during life.
Doing this means that the son will talk about his father and the ministers will talk about the king. This is very meaningless. I will not adopt this approach.
From then on, the posthumous law was abolished.
I am the First Emperor.
Counting the descendants, from the second and third generations to the ten thousand generations, the inheritance will be endless.
The First Emperor deduced based on the order of succession of the five virtues, and believed that the Zhou Dynasty obtained the fire virtue, and the Qin Dynasty replaced the fire virtue of the Zhou Dynasty. Following the law of the victory of the five elements, the water virtue should now be the beginning.
At the beginning of October, the first month of the new year, a group of ministers came to the court to celebrate. Clothes, banners, and festival flags are all black.
Six is ​​used as the standard for number, the talisman and the dharma crown are all six inches, the chariot is six feet wide, the steps are six feet, and the chariot is driven by six horses.
The river was renamed Deshui as the beginning of water virtue.
Being tough and decisive in politics, being violent and harsh, deciding everything in accordance with the law, being harsh and severe, without kindness, kindness, warmth and morality, this is in line with the principles of the evolution of the Five Virtues.
So the law was strict and criminals who had been imprisoned for a long time were not pardoned.
Prime Minister Wang Wan and others suggested: The princes of various countries have just been wiped out, and the lands of Yan, Qi, and Jing are far away. If there is no king there, there will be no one to pacify Yan, Qi, and Jing.
Please make the emperor's sons kings, hoping to get the emperor's approval.
The First Emperor submitted Wang Wan and others' suggestions to the ministers for discussion, and they all thought it was appropriate.
Tingwei Li Si suggested: King Wen of Zhou and King Wu of Zhou had many children with the same surname. However, later on, the clansmen became estranged and attacked each other like enemies. The princes fought against each other and the emperor of Zhou could not stop them.
Now, relying on His Majesty's spirit, the world has been unified and divided into counties and counties. The emperor's children and meritorious officials are heavily rewarded with state taxes, making it easy to govern.
There is no two minds in the world. This is the way to stabilize the country.
It is not appropriate to create feudal lords.
The First Emperor said: The world is suffering from endless wars because of the princes and kings. Relying on the spirit of the ancestral temple, we have just pacified the world and then established the princely states. This is creating enemies for ourselves, and seeking peace is not very difficult!
Tingwei's suggestion is correct.
Divide the country into thirty-six counties, with guards, lieutenants, and prisons in each county.
The people renamed it Qianshou.

summary:
summary line 4: The king declared himself the First Emperor, abolishing posthumous titles and establishing a system of succession for ten thousand generations. He adopted water virtue, with black as the color, six as the standard, and harsh laws. The empire was divided into thirty-six commanderies, with unified laws, weights, measures, and writing. Wealthy families were moved to Xianyang, and palaces were built imitating those of conquered states.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
始皇梦与海神战，如人状。
问占梦，博士曰： 水神不可见，以大鱼蛟龙为候。
今上祷祠备谨，而有此恶神，当除去，而善神可致。
乃令入海者赍捕巨鱼具，而自以连弩候大鱼出射之。
自琅邪北至荣成山，弗见。
至之罘，见巨鱼，射杀一鱼。
遂并海西。
至平原津而病。
始皇恶言死，群臣莫敢言死事。
上病益甚，乃为玺书赐公子扶苏曰： 与丧会咸阳而葬。
书已封，在中车府令赵高行符玺事所，未授使者。
七月丙寅，始皇崩於沙丘平台。
丞相斯为上崩在外，恐诸公子及天下有变，乃祕之，不发丧。
棺载辒凉车中，故幸宦者参乘，所至上食。
百官奏事如故，宦者辄从辒凉车中可其奏事。
独子胡亥、赵高及所幸宦者五六人知上死。
赵高故尝教胡亥书及狱律令法事，胡亥私幸之。
高乃与公子胡亥、丞相斯阴谋破去始皇所封书赐公子扶苏者，而更诈为丞相斯受始皇遗诏沙丘，立子胡亥为太子。
更为书赐公子扶苏、蒙恬，数以罪，赐死。
语具在李斯传中。
行，遂从井陉抵九原。
会暑，上辒车臭，乃诏从官令车载一石鲍鱼，以乱其臭。
行从直道至咸阳，发丧。
太子胡亥袭位，为二世皇帝。
九月，葬始皇郦山。
始皇初即位，穿治郦山，及并天下，天下徒送诣七十馀万人，穿三泉，下铜而致椁，宫观百官奇器珍怪徙臧满之。
令匠作机弩矢，有所穿近者辄射之。
以水银为百川江河大海，机相灌输，上具天文，下具地理。以人鱼膏为烛，度不灭者久之。
translation: 
The First Emperor fought with Poseidon in his dream, and Poseidon looked like a human being.
I asked the doctor who divined dreams, and the doctor said: The water god cannot be seen, and his signs are represented by big fish and mosquito dragons.
Now your Majesty is thoughtful and respectful in your prayers and sacrifices, but this vicious sea god has appeared. He should be eradicated, and then the good god can come.
So he asked those who went to the sea to carry equipment for catching big fish, while he used a repeating crossbow to wait for the big fish to appear and shoot it to death.
From Langye to the north to Rongcheng Mountain, no big fish was seen.
When he arrived at Zhifu, he saw big fish and shot one to death.
So we headed west along the coast.
He fell ill when he arrived in Pingyuanjin.
The First Emperor hated talking about death, and no one among his ministers dared to mention it.
The First Emperor's illness worsened day by day, so he wrote an edict with the emperor's seal to his son Fusu, saying: Come back to attend my funeral and bury me together in Xianyang.
The edict had been sealed and placed at the place where Zhao Gao, the commander of the Zhongche Mansion, was in charge of the seal and talisman affairs instead of Fu Xilang. It was not sent to the envoy responsible for delivering it.
In July Bingyin, the First Emperor died on the sand dune platform.
Because the First Emperor died outside, Prime Minister Li Si was afraid that the First Emperor's sons and the people in the country would cause trouble, so he blocked the news and did not hold a funeral.
The coffin was placed in a rolling carriage, accompanied by the eunuchs who were close to him, and meals were delivered as usual wherever he went.
The officials reported state affairs as before, and the eunuchs approved what they reported from their carriages.
Only the First Emperor's sons Hu Hai, Zhao Gao and five or six close eunuchs knew that the First Emperor was dead.
Zhao Gao used to teach Hu Hai writing and prison laws, and Hu Hai was very close to him in private.
Zhao Gao conspired with Prince Hu Hai and Prime Minister Li Si to defeat the imperial edict sealed by the First Emperor and sent it to Prince Fusu. At the same time, he falsely claimed that Prime Minister Li Si was in the sand dunes to accept the imperial edict from the First Emperor and make his son Hu Hai the crown prince.
He also wrote another edict to the young masters Fusu and Mengtian, listing their crimes and ordering them to commit suicide.
These things are recorded in "The Biography of Li Si".
Hu Hai and others continued to move forward, so they arrived at Jiuyuan from Jingxing.
Just in time for the hot weather, the First Emperor's carriages started to smell bad, so he ordered the officials to load each carriage with a stone of abalone to mix up the stench of the First Emperor's body.
Hu Hai and others returned to Xianyang from Zhidao and announced the death of the First Emperor.
Prince Hu Hai succeeded to the throne and became the second emperor.
In September, the First Emperor was buried in Mount Li.
When the First Emperor first came to the throne, he dug caves in Mount Li. After unifying the country, he sent more than 700,000 prisoners from all over the world to Mount Li. He dug tunnels until they reached the water, sealed them with copper, and then placed coffins inside. Imitation palaces, hundreds of palaces, and various rare treasures were moved in and filled with treasures.
Let the craftsman make a crossbow with a mechanism. When someone digs a grave and approaches the tomb, it will automatically shoot at the target.
Use mercury to make thousands of rivers, hundreds of streams, rivers and seas, and use machinery to permeate and circulate each other. All kinds of celestial phenomena are complete above the tomb, and there are thousands of scenes on the ground below. The fat of the mermaid is used as a candle, and it is estimated that it will not be extinguished for a long time.

summary:
summary line 5: The First Emperor toured extensively, erecting stone tablets praising his achievements. He sought immortality, sending Xu Shi with boys and girls to find the elixir. He burned books and buried Confucian scholars alive, enforcing strict laws. The construction of the Epang Palace and the Lishan tomb involved hundreds of thousands of workers. The emperor's death was concealed, and a forged edict made Hu Hai the Second Emperor, forcing Fusu to commit suicide.

Chunk 20: 
original: 
今六国复自立，秦地益小，乃以空名为帝，不可。
宜为王如故，便。
立二世之兄子公子婴为秦王。
以黔首葬二世杜南宜春苑中。
令子婴斋，当庙见，受王玺。
斋五日，子婴与其子二人谋曰： 丞相高杀二世望夷宫，恐群臣诛之，乃详以义立我。
我闻赵高乃与楚约，灭秦宗室而王关中。
今使我斋见庙，此欲因庙中杀我。
我称病不行，丞相必自来，来则杀之。
高使人请子婴数辈，子婴不行，高果自往，曰： 宗庙重事，王柰何不行？
子婴遂刺杀高於斋宫，三族高家以徇咸阳。
子婴为秦王四十六日，楚将沛公破秦军入武关，遂至霸上，使人约降子婴。
子婴即系颈以组，白马素车，奉天子玺符，降轵道旁。
沛公遂入咸阳，封宫室府库，还军霸上。
居月馀，诸侯兵至，项籍为从长，杀子婴及秦诸公子宗族。
遂屠咸阳，烧其宫室，虏其子女，收其珍宝货财，诸侯共分之。
灭秦之後，各分其地为三，名曰雍王、塞王、翟王，号曰三秦。
项羽为西楚霸王，主命分天下王诸侯，秦竟灭矣。
後五年，天下定於汉。
太史公曰：秦之先伯翳，尝有勋於唐虞之际，受土赐姓。
及殷夏之间微散。
至周之衰，秦兴，邑于西垂。
自缪公以来，稍蚕食诸侯，竟成始皇。
始皇自以为功过五帝，地广三王，而羞与之侔。
善哉乎贾生推言之也！
曰：秦并兼诸侯山东三十馀郡，缮津关，据险塞，修甲兵而守之。
translation: 
Now that the six countries have established their own political power, Qin's territory is shrinking day by day, but it is still claiming the title of emperor in vain. This is unacceptable.
It is more appropriate to be king as in the past.
He made the son of his second brother, Gong Ziying, the king of Qin.
The second generation was buried in Yichun Garden in the south of Du County with common people's rites.
Zhao Gao asked Ziying to fast, visit his ancestors in the ancestral temple, and receive the seal of King Qin.
After fasting for five days, Ziying discussed with his two sons: Prime Minister Zhao Gao killed the second son in Wangyi Palace. He was afraid that the officials would punish him, so he pretended to make me king in the name of righteousness.
I heard that Zhao Gao made an agreement with Chu that he would destroy the Qin clan and become king in Guanzhong.
Now they ask me to fast and visit the ancestral temple. They want to kill me while I am in the ancestral temple.
I told him that if he didn't go away if he was ill, the prime minister would come to me personally and kill him when he came.
Zhao Gao sent people several times to invite Ziying, but Ziying refused to go. Zhao Gao came in person and said, "Visiting the ancestral temple is a big event. Why doesn't the king go?"
Ziying stabbed Zhao Gao to death in the fasting palace, executed all three members of Zhao Gao's family, and showed them to the public in Xianyang.
Ziying was the king of Qin for forty-six days. The Chu general Pei Gong defeated the Qin army, entered Wuguan, came to Bashang, and sent people to ask Ziying to surrender.
Ziying tied his neck with a ribbon, rode on a white horse, held the emperor's seal and talisman, and surrendered beside Zhi Road.
So Pei Gong entered Xianyang, closed the official offices and treasury, and returned to the army. More than a month passed.
The armies of various princes arrived, and Xiang Yu, the leader of the alliance, killed Ziying and the clan of Prince Qin.
Xianyang was massacred, the palaces were burned, the sons and women of Qin were captured, the treasures were plundered, and the princes divided them among themselves.
After the Qin State was eliminated, its land was divided into three parts, named King Yong, King Sai, and King Zhai, known as the Three Qins.
Xiang Yu was the overlord of Western Chu and was responsible for dividing the world's princes and kings. The Qin Dynasty finally perished.
Five years later, the Han Dynasty unified the country.
Tai Shigong said: Boyi, the ancestor of the Qin State, had made great achievements during the Tang and Yu periods, acquired land, and was given the surname Ying.
Between Xia and Yin, the power was weakened and dispersed.
When the Zhou Dynasty declined, the Qin State emerged and built a city in Xicui.
Since Duke Mu, he has gradually encroached on the princes, and the unification project was finally completed by the First Emperor.
The First Emperor believed that his merits exceeded those of the Five Emperors, and his territory was broader than the Three Kings, and he was ashamed to be compared with the Three Kings and Five Emperors.
Jia Sheng's discussion is very good. He said:
Qin annexed various vassal states and more than thirty counties in Shandong, repaired and managed Jindu and passes, occupied dangerous passes and fortresses, trained troops, and defended them.

summary:
summary line 6: The Second Emperor's reign was marked by cruelty and rebellion. Chen She's uprising spread, and Zhang Han suppressed it with convicts. Zhao Gao gained power, killing officials and princes. The Second Emperor was eventually forced to commit suicide by Zhao Gao's agents. Ziying, made king, killed Zhao Gao but soon surrendered to Liu Bang. Xiang Yu killed Ziying and the Qin clan, burning Xianyang. The Qin dynasty ended after 610 years from Duke Xiang to the Second Emperor.

