Chunk 0: 
original: 
平阳侯曹参者，沛人也。
秦时为沛狱掾，而萧何为主吏，居县为豪吏矣。
高祖为沛公而初起也，参以中涓从。
将击胡陵、方与，攻秦监公军，大破之。
东下薛，击泗水守军薛郭西。
复攻胡陵，取之。
徙守方与。
方与反为魏，击之。
丰反为魏，攻之。
赐爵七大夫。
击秦司马枿军砀东，破之，取砀、狐父、祁善置。
又攻下邑以西，至虞，击章邯车骑。
攻爰戚及亢父，先登。
迁为五大夫。
北救阿，击章邯军，陷陈，追至濮阳。
攻定陶，取临济。
南救雍丘。击李由军，破之，杀李由，虏秦候一人。
秦将章邯破杀项梁也，沛公与项羽引而东。
楚怀王以沛公为砀郡长，将砀郡兵。
於是乃封参为执帛，号曰建成君。
迁为戚公，属砀郡。
其後从攻东郡尉军，破之成武南。
击王离军成阳南，复攻之杠里，大破之。
追北，西至开封，击赵贲军，破之，围赵贲开封城中。
西击将杨熊军於曲遇，破之，虏秦司马及御史各一人。
迁为执珪。从攻阳武，下轘辕、缑氏，绝河津，还击赵贲军尸北，破之。
从南攻犨，与南阳守齮战阳城郭东，陷陈，取宛，虏齮，尽定南阳郡。
从西攻武关、峣关，取之。
前攻秦军蓝田南，又夜击其北，秦军大破，遂至咸阳，灭秦。
项羽至，以沛公为汉王。
汉王封参为建成侯。
从至汉中，迁为将军。
translation: 
Cao Shen, Marquis of Pingyang, was born in Peixian County.
During the Qin Dynasty, Cao Shen served as the warden of Peixian County, and Xiao He was the chief official. They were already well-known officials in the county.
When Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was the Duke of Pei, Cao Shen followed him as Zhongjuan.
Cao Shen led his army to attack Huling and Fangyu, and attacked the Qin Dynasty's county supervisors' army, greatly defeating the enemy.
He took Xuexian County to the east and attacked the army of the Sishui County Governor to the west of the outer city of Xuexian County.
Then he attacked Huling and successfully captured it.
Cao Shen led his army to move to guard Fang Yu.
Fang Yu had rebelled and surrendered to the king of Wei, so Cao Shen attacked Fang Yu.
Fengyi also rebelled and surrendered to the king of Wei, and Cao Shen went to attack Fengyi again.
Duke Pei bestowed upon Cao Shen the title of Seventh Doctor.
Cao Shen attacked Qin Dynasty Sima Yí's army east of Dang County, defeated him, and captured Shanzhiyi in Dang County, Hufu County, and Qi County.
Cao Shen then attacked the area west of Xiayi, as far as Yu County, and attacked Zhang Han's army.
When attacking Yuan Qi and Kang Fu, Cao Shen was the first to climb the tower.
Cao Shen was promoted to the fifth official position.
He went north to rescue Dong'a, attacked Zhang Han's army, captured Chen County, and pursued to Puyang.
He attacked Dingtao and captured Linji.
He went south to rescue Yongqiu, attacked Li You's army, defeated it, killed Li You, and captured one of the Qin Dynasty's military commanders.
At this time, Qin general Zhang Han defeated Xiang Liang's army and killed Xiang Liang. Pei Gong and Xiang Yu led their troops back east.
King Chu Huai appointed Pei Gong as the governor of Dang County and commanded the army of Dang County.
Peigong granted Cao Shen the title of Silk Holder and was known as Jiancheng Lord.
Later, Cao Shen was promoted to the magistrate of Yuanqi County and was subordinate to Dang County.
From there, Cao Shen followed Pei Gong to attack the army of the prefect of Dongjun and defeated the enemy south of Chengwu.
They attacked Wang Li's army in the south of Chengyang and fought Wang Li's army in Gangli, defeating them severely.
Chasing the fleeing enemy troops, he went west to Kaifeng, attacked Zhao Bi's army, defeated it, and surrounded Zhao Bi in the city of Kaifeng.
Going west, he encountered the Qin Dynasty general Yang Xiong's army in Qu, defeated it, and captured one of the Qin Dynasty's Sima and Yushi.
Cao Shen was promoted to Zhigui and followed Pei Gong to attack Yangwu, captured the Yuan and Feng clans, blocked the Yellow River ferry, returned to attack Zhao Ben's army, and defeated it to the north of Xixiang.
Following Pei Gong, he went south to attack Jiyi, and fought with Lu Xun, the governor of Nanyang County, east of the outer city of Yangcheng. He broke through Lu Xun's army, captured Wan County, captured Lu Xun, and completely pacified Nanyang County.
Following Pei Gong, he went west to attack Wuguan and Yaoguan, and captured these two passes.
He first attacked the Qin army in the south of Lantian, and then attacked the north of Lantian at night, defeating the Qin army. Then he reached Xianyang and destroyed the Qin Dynasty.
After Xiang Yu came to Guanzhong, he named Liu Bang King of Han.
The king of Han granted Cao Shen the title of Marquis of Jiancheng.
Cao Shen followed the King of Han to Guanzhong and was promoted to general.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
从还定三秦，初攻下辩、故道、雍、斄。
击章平军於好畤南，破之，围好畤，取壤乡。
击三秦军壤东及高栎，破之。
复围章平，章平出好畤走。
因击赵贲、内史保军，破之。
东取咸阳，更名曰新城。
参将兵守景陵二十日，三秦使章平等攻参，参出击，大破之。
赐食邑於宁秦。
参以将军引兵围章邯於废丘。以中尉从汉王出临晋关。
至河内，下脩武，渡围津，东击龙且、项他定陶，破之。
东取砀、萧、彭城。
击项籍军，汉军大败走。
参以中尉围取雍丘。
王武反於黄，程处反於燕，往击，尽破之。
柱天侯反於衍氏，又进破取衍氏。
击羽婴於昆阳，追至叶。
还攻武彊，因至荥阳。
参自汉中为将军中尉，从击诸侯，及项羽败，还至荥阳，凡二岁。
高祖年，拜为假左丞相，入屯兵关中。
月馀，魏王豹反，以假左丞相别与韩信东攻魏将军孙军东张，大破之。
因攻安邑，得魏将王襄。
击魏王於曲阳，追至武垣，生得魏王豹。
取平阳，得魏王母妻子，尽定魏地，凡五十二城。
赐食邑平阳。
因从韩信击赵相国夏说军於邬东，大破之，斩夏说。
韩信与故常山王张耳引兵下井陉，击成安君，而令参还围赵别将戚将军於邬城中。
戚将军出走，追斩之。
乃引兵诣敖仓汉王之所。
韩信已破赵，为相国，东击齐。
参以右丞相属韩信，攻破齐历下军，遂取临菑。
还定济北郡，攻著、漯阴、平原、鬲、卢。
已而从韩信击龙且军於上假密，大破之，斩龙且，虏其将军周兰。
translation: 
He then followed the King of Han and returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties. He initially attacked Xiabian, Gudao, Yongxian and Xixian.
They attacked Zhang Ping's army from the south of Haotian, defeated Zhang Ping, surrounded Haodian, and captured Rangxiang.
The troops of Sanqin attacked in the east of Rangxiang and Gaoqiu and defeated them all.
They surrounded Zhang Ping again, and Zhang Ping broke out and escaped from the enemy's camp.
So he attacked the troops of Zhao Bi and Nei Shibao and defeated them.
He captured Xianyang from the east and renamed Xianyang Xincheng.
Cao Shen led his troops to guard Jingling for twenty days. Sanqin sent Zhang Ping and others to attack Cao Shen. Cao Shen sent troops to meet him and defeated the enemy.
The king of Han gave Ning Qin to Cao Shen as a food town.
As a general, Cao Shen led the troops to surround Zhang Han in Feiqiu, and as a lieutenant, he followed the King of Han to Jin Pass.
When they arrived in Hanoi, they captured Xiuwu, crossed the Yellow River from Weijin, and marched eastward to attack Long Qie and Xiang's army at Dingtao and defeated them.
Heading east, they captured Dangxian, Xiaoxian and Pengcheng.
Attacking Xiang Ji's army, the Han army was defeated and fled.
Cao Shen surrounded and captured Yongqiu as a lieutenant.
Han general Wang Wu rebelled in Waihuang and Cheng Chu rebelled in Yan County. Cao Shen led his army to attack and defeated them both.
柱天侯在衍氏反叛，曹参又击败叛军，夺回了衍氏。
Attacked Yuying in Kunyang and pursued to Yeyi.
回军攻打武强，随即又打到荥阳。
Cao Shen served as a general and lieutenant from Hanzhong, following the king of Han to sweep away the princes, until Xiang Yu was defeated and returned to Xingyang, a total of two years.
In the second year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Cao Shen was appointed to act as Prime Minister Zuo and led troops to garrison in Guanzhong.
More than a month later, King Bao of Wei rebelled. Cao Shen, acting as the acting prime minister of Zuo, and Han Xin led their troops eastward to attack Wei General Sun Jun's army in Dongzhang, and defeated Sun Jun's army.
Cao Shen took advantage of the situation to attack Anyi and captured Wei general Wang Xiang alive.
Attacked the King of Wei in Quyang, chased him to Wuyuan, and captured King Bao of Wei alive.
They captured Pingyang, captured the king's mother, wife, and children alive, and captured the entire land of Wei, gaining a total of fifty-two cities.
The king of Han gave Pingyang to Cao Shen as a food town.
Cao Shen later followed Han Xin to attack the army of Zhao Guoxiang Guo Xia Shuo in the east of Wu County, defeated Xia Shuo's army and beheaded Xia Shuo.
Han Xin and Zhang Er, the former king of Changshan, led their troops to Jingxing and attacked Chen Yu, the king of Anjun. At the same time, they ordered Cao Shen to return to the army and besiege Zhao's general Qi in Wu County.
General Qi broke through and fled, but Cao Shen pursued and killed him.
So Cao Shen led his troops to the camp of King Han in Aocang.
By this time, Han Xin had defeated the State of Zhao, became prime minister, and attacked Qi State in the east.
Cao Shen, serving as Prime Minister Zuo, subordinated to Han Xin, defeated Qi Lixia's army and captured Linyi.
The returning army pacified Jibei County and attacked the counties, Luoyin, Pingyuan, Li County and Lu County.
Soon after, Han Xin followed Han Xin to attack Long Qie's army, defeated the enemy, killed Long Qie, and captured his general Zhou Lan.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
定齐，凡得七十馀县。
得故齐王田广相田光，其守相许章，及故齐胶东将军田既。
韩信为齐王，引兵诣陈，与汉王共破项羽，而参留平齐未服者。
项籍已死，天下定，汉王为皇帝，韩信徙为楚王，齐为郡。
参归汉相印。
高帝以长子肥为齐王，而以参为齐相国。
以高祖六年赐爵列侯，与诸侯剖符，世世勿绝。
食邑平阳万六百三十户，号曰平阳侯，除前所食邑。
以齐相国击陈豨将张春军，破之。
黥布反，参以齐相国从悼惠王将兵车骑十二万人，与高祖会击黥布军，大破之。
南至蕲，还定竹邑、相、萧、留。
参功：凡下二国，县一百二十二；得王二人，相三人，将军六人，大莫敖、郡守、司马、候、御史各一人。
孝惠帝元年，除诸侯相国法，更以参为齐丞相。
参之相齐，齐七十城。
天下初定，悼惠王富於春秋，参尽召长老诸生，问所以安集百姓，如齐故诸儒以百数，言人人殊，参未知所定。
闻胶西有盖公，善治黄老言，使人厚币请之。
既见盖公，盖公为言治道贵清静而民自定，推此类具言之。
参於是避正堂，舍盖公焉。
其治要用黄老术，故相齐九年，齐国安集，大称贤相。
惠帝二年，萧何卒。
参闻之，告舍人趣治行， 吾将入相 。
居无何，使者果召参。
参去，属其後相曰： 以齐狱市为寄，慎勿扰也。
後相曰： 治无大於此者乎？ 参曰： 不然。
translation: 
The state of Qi was pacified and more than seventy counties were obtained in total.
They captured the Prime Minister Tian Guang of the former Qi King Tian Guang, Xu Zhang who stayed behind in place of the Prime Minister, and the former Qi State Jiaodong General Tian Ji.
Han Xin became the king of Qi, led his troops to Chen County, joined the king of Han, and defeated Xiang Yu together, while Cao Shen stayed to pacify the unconquered areas of Qi.
Xiang Yu was dead, the world was at peace, the King of Han became emperor, Han Xin was renamed King of Chu, and the state of Qi was divided into counties.
Cao Shen returned the seal of the Han Prime Minister.
Emperor Gao made his eldest son Liu Fei the King of Qi and appointed Cao Shen as the Prime Minister of Qi.
In the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, the titles of the princes were enfeoffed. The imperial court and the princes cut the talismans as proof, so that the titles of the enfeoffed persons could be passed down from generation to generation without being extinguished.
Emperor Gaozu granted Cao Shen 10,630 households in Pingyang as a fiefdom, with the title Marquis of Pingyang, and took back the fiefdoms previously entrusted to Cao Shen.
As the Prime Minister of Qi, Cao Shen led troops to attack Chen Xi's general Zhang Chun's army and defeated the enemy.
Yingbu rebelled. As the Prime Minister of Qi, Cao Shen followed Qi Hui King Liu Fei and led 120,000 troops. Together with Gaozu, he attacked Yingbu's army and defeated the enemy.
They marched southward to Qi County, then returned to the army and pacified Zhuyi, Xiangxian, Xiaoxian and Liuxian.
Cao Shen's achievements: he conquered two vassal states and 122 counties in total; captured two vassal kings, three prime ministers of the vassal states, six generals, and one each of the county guard, Sima, military marquis, and censor.
In the first year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, he abolished the decree of establishing a prime minister's state in the vassal states and appointed Cao Shen as the prime minister of Qi.
When Cao Shen was the prime minister of Qi, there were seventy cities in Qi.
At that time, the world had just been peaceful, and King Huihui was very young. Cao Shen summoned the elderly and scholars to ask for ways to appease the people. But there were hundreds of scholars in Qi State, and they had different opinions. Cao Shen didn't know how to make a decision.
He heard that there was a Duke Gai in Jiaoxi who studied Huang Lao's theory intensively, so he sent someone to invite him with generous gifts.
After meeting Gai Gong, Gai Gong told Cao Shen that the most important way to govern the country is to be pure and inactive, allowing the people to settle down on their own. He recommended similar things in this regard and stated them all to Cao Shen.
Cao Shen then gave up his main hall and let Gai Gong live in it.
From then on, Cao Shen's method of governing the country was to adopt Huang Lao's teachings, so he served as the prime minister of Qi for nine years. The country of Qi was stable, and people greatly praised him as a wise prime minister.
In the second year of Emperor Hui's reign, Xiao He passed away.
When Cao Shen heard the news, he told his disciples to pack their bags quickly and said: I am going to the court to become the prime minister.
Soon after, people sent by the imperial court came to summon Cao Shen.
When Cao Shen left, he told the subsequent prime minister of Qi: The prison lawsuits and markets of Qi should be regarded as the sustenance of certain people's actions. These actions should be treated with caution and not interfere easily.
The later prime minister said: Is there nothing more important than governing the country? Cao Shen said: That's not the case.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
夫狱市者，所以并容也，今君扰之，奸人安所容也？
吾是以先之。
参始微时，与萧何善；及为将相，有卻。
至何且死，所推贤唯参。
参代何为汉相国，举事无所变更，一遵萧何约束。
择郡国吏木诎於文辞，重厚长者，即召除为丞相史。
吏之言文刻深，欲务声名者，辄斥去之。
日夜饮醇酒。
卿大夫已下吏及宾客见参不事事，来者皆欲有言。
至者，参辄饮以醇酒，间之，欲有所言，复饮之，醉而後去，终莫得开说，以为常。
相舍後园近吏舍，吏舍日饮歌呼。
从吏恶之，无如之何，乃请参游园中，闻吏醉歌呼，从吏幸相国召按之。
乃反取酒张坐饮，亦歌呼与相应和。
参见人之有细过，专掩匿覆盖之，府中无事。
参子窋为中大夫。
惠帝怪相国不治事，以为 岂少朕与 ？乃谓窋曰： 若归，试私从容问而父曰： 高帝新弃群臣，帝富於春秋，君为相，日饮，无所请事，何以忧天下乎？
然无言吾告若也。
窋既洗沐归，间侍，自从其所谏参。
参怒，而笞窋二百，曰： 趣入侍，天下事非若所当言也。
至朝时，惠帝让参曰： 与窋胡治乎？
乃者我使谏君也。
参免冠谢曰： 陛下自察圣武孰与高帝？
上曰： 朕乃安敢望先帝乎！
曰： 陛下观臣能孰与萧何贤？
上曰： 君似不及也。
参曰： 陛下言之是也。且高帝与萧何定天下，法令既明，今陛下垂拱，参等守职，遵而勿失，不亦可乎？ 惠帝曰： 善。
君休矣！
translation: 
Prison litigation and the market are both good and evil. If you interfere strictly, where will the bad people stay?
That's why I'm telling you this.
When Cao Shen was humble at first, he had a good relationship with Xiao He; but when they became generals and prime ministers, there was a gap.
When Xiao He was dying, the only good minister Xiao He recommended to Emperor Xiaohui Liu Ying was Cao Shen.
Cao Shen succeeded Xiao He as the prime minister of the Han Dynasty. He did not change anything and followed the laws established by Xiao He.
Cao Shen selected elders from various counties and vassal states who were not good at speaking and acted steadily. After finding them, he immediately summoned subordinate officials who were appointed as prime ministers.
Those among the officials who are demanding about the details of their speech and writing and who want to blindly pursue reputation will be repelled and driven away.
Cao Shen himself drank wine all day long.
The officials and guests below the rank of Qing and Dafu saw that Cao Shen was not paying attention to political affairs, and everyone who came to the door wanted to give him some advice.
But as soon as these people arrived, Cao Shen immediately gave them wine to drink. After a while, some people wanted to say something, and Cao Shen let them drink again. Until they got drunk and left, they were never able to speak out to persuade them. This was customary.
The back garden of the Prime Minister's residence is close to the officials' houses. In the officials' houses, people drink, sing, and shout all day long.
Cao Shen's officials were disgusted by this incident, but they had nothing to do about it, so they invited Cao Shen to play in the back garden. Together they heard the drunken officials singing and shouting wildly. The officials hoped that the Prime Minister would summon them to stop them.
Instead, Cao Shen asked people to get wine, set up a table, and drank heavily. He also sang and shouted in harmony with the officials.
When Cao Cao saw other people's minor faults, he always concealed them, so everything was safe in the prime minister's house.
Cao Shen's son Cao Chang became a doctor.
Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty complained that Cao Xiangguo ignored political affairs, and felt that the prime minister looked down on him, so he said to Cao Cheng: After you go home, try to ask your father privately: Emperor Gao has just passed away, and the emperor is very young. As the prime minister, you drink and have fun all day long, and do not ask the emperor for instructions when something happens. How do you manage the affairs of the country?
But don’t say I told you these words.
Cao Cheng went home during the holidays and stayed with his father in his spare time, translating Emperor Hui's wishes into his own words to persuade Cao Shen.
After hearing this, Cao Shen was furious and slapped Cao Chang two hundred times and said, "Hurry up and enter the palace to serve the emperor. It is not your place to talk about important national affairs."
When he went to court, Emperor Hui scolded Cao Shen and said: Why punish Cao Cheng?
I asked him to advise you last time.
Cao Shen took off his hat and apologized and said: Your Majesty, please think carefully for yourself, who is more saintly and heroic compared with you or Emperor Gao?
Emperor Hui said: How dare I compare with the late Emperor!
Cao Shen said: Your Majesty, do you think my talents are better than those of Xiao He? Emperor Hui said: You are probably not as good as Xiao He.
Cao Shen said: What your Majesty said is correct.
Emperor Gao and Xiao He have brought peace to the world, and the laws have been made clear. Now His Majesty has lowered his clothes and handed over his hands. Isn't it enough for us to abide by our respective responsibilities, follow the original laws and not change them at will? Emperor Hui said: OK.
Take a rest!


Chunk 4: 
original: 
参为汉相国，出入三年。
卒，谥懿侯。
子窋代侯。
百姓歌之曰： 萧何为法，顜若画一。曹参代之，守而勿失。
载其清靖，民以宁一。
平阳侯窋，高后时为御史大夫。
孝文帝立，免为侯。
立二十九年卒，谥为静侯。
子奇代侯，立七年卒，谥为简侯。
子时代侯。
时尚平阳公主，生子襄。
时病疠，归国。
立二十三年卒，谥夷侯。
子襄代侯。
襄尚卫长公主，生子宗。
立十六年卒，谥为共侯。
子宗代侯。
征和二年中，宗坐太子死，国除。
太史公曰：曹相国参攻城野战之功所以能多若此者，以与淮阴侯俱。
及信已灭，而列侯成功，唯独参擅其名。
参为汉相国，清静极言合道。
然百姓离秦之酷後，参与休息无为，故天下俱称其美矣。
translation: 
Cao Shen served as the Prime Minister of the Han Dynasty for three years.
After his death, he was posthumously named Yihou.
Cao Shen's son, Cao Cheng, succeeded his father as the marquis.
The common people praised Cao Shen's deeds and said: Xiao He formulated laws that were clear and consistent; Cao Shen succeeded Xiao He as prime minister and abided by Xiao He's laws without changing them.
Cao Shen implemented his pure and inactive approach, and the people were peaceful and undisturbed.
Cao Cheng, Marquis of Pingyang, was the imperial censor at that time.
Emperor Xiaowen ascended the throne and was dismissed as a marquis.
Cao Cheng died after 29 years as a marquis, and his posthumous title was Jinghou.
Cao Cheng's son Cao Qi took over the throne and died after seven years of service. His posthumous title was Marquis Jian.
Cao Qi's son Cao Shi succeeded him.
Cao Shi married Princess Pingyang and gave birth to a son, Cao Xiang.
Cao Shi got sick and returned to the feudal country.
Cao Shi died in his 23rd year as a Marquis, and his posthumous title was Yihou.
Cao Shi's son Cao Xiang succeeded him.
Cao Xiang married Princess Wei Chang and had a son, Cao Zong.
Cao Xiang died in his sixteenth year as a marquis, and his posthumous title was Gonghou.
Cao Xiang's son Cao Zong succeeded him.
In the second year of Zhenghe, Cao Zong was implicated in the mutiny launched by Emperor Wu's crown prince. He was convicted and executed, and the feudal state was abolished.
Tai Shigong said: The reason why Cao Shen, the Prime Minister of Cao, has so many military exploits is because he worked with Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin.
When Han Xin was eliminated, only Cao Shen was credited with the military exploits accomplished by other princes.
As the prime minister of the Han Dynasty, Cao Shen strongly advocated purity and inaction, which was completely in line with Taoist doctrine.
After the people suffered from the cruel rule of the Qin Dynasty, Cao Shen gave them a chance to recuperate, so everyone in the world praised his virtue.


