Summary uses chunk [0, 2, 4]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
平阳侯曹参者，沛人也。
秦时为沛狱掾，而萧何为主吏，居县为豪吏矣。
高祖为沛公而初起也，参以中涓从。
将击胡陵、方与，攻秦监公军，大破之。
东下薛，击泗水守军薛郭西。
复攻胡陵，取之。
徙守方与。
方与反为魏，击之。
丰反为魏，攻之。
赐爵七大夫。
击秦司马枿军砀东，破之，取砀、狐父、祁善置。
又攻下邑以西，至虞，击章邯车骑。
攻爰戚及亢父，先登。
迁为五大夫。
北救阿，击章邯军，陷陈，追至濮阳。
攻定陶，取临济。
南救雍丘。击李由军，破之，杀李由，虏秦候一人。
秦将章邯破杀项梁也，沛公与项羽引而东。
楚怀王以沛公为砀郡长，将砀郡兵。
於是乃封参为执帛，号曰建成君。
迁为戚公，属砀郡。
其後从攻东郡尉军，破之成武南。
击王离军成阳南，复攻之杠里，大破之。
追北，西至开封，击赵贲军，破之，围赵贲开封城中。
西击将杨熊军於曲遇，破之，虏秦司马及御史各一人。
迁为执珪。从攻阳武，下轘辕、缑氏，绝河津，还击赵贲军尸北，破之。
从南攻犨，与南阳守齮战阳城郭东，陷陈，取宛，虏齮，尽定南阳郡。
从西攻武关、峣关，取之。
前攻秦军蓝田南，又夜击其北，秦军大破，遂至咸阳，灭秦。
项羽至，以沛公为汉王。
汉王封参为建成侯。
从至汉中，迁为将军。
translation: 
Cao Shen, Marquis of Pingyang, was born in Peixian County.
During the Qin Dynasty, Cao Shen served as the warden of Peixian County, and Xiao He was the chief official. They were already well-known officials in the county.
When Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty was the Duke of Pei, Cao Shen followed him as Zhongjuan.
Cao Shen led his army to attack Huling and Fangyu, and attacked the Qin Dynasty's county supervisors' army, greatly defeating the enemy.
He took Xuexian County to the east and attacked the army of the Sishui County Governor to the west of the outer city of Xuexian County.
Then he attacked Huling and successfully captured it.
Cao Shen led his army to move to guard Fang Yu.
Fang Yu had rebelled and surrendered to the king of Wei, so Cao Shen attacked Fang Yu.
Fengyi also rebelled and surrendered to the king of Wei, and Cao Shen went to attack Fengyi again.
Duke Pei bestowed upon Cao Shen the title of Seventh Doctor.
Cao Shen attacked Qin Dynasty Sima Yí's army east of Dang County, defeated him, and captured Shanzhiyi in Dang County, Hufu County, and Qi County.
Cao Shen then attacked the area west of Xiayi, as far as Yu County, and attacked Zhang Han's army.
When attacking Yuan Qi and Kang Fu, Cao Shen was the first to climb the tower.
Cao Shen was promoted to the fifth official position.
He went north to rescue Dong'a, attacked Zhang Han's army, captured Chen County, and pursued to Puyang.
He attacked Dingtao and captured Linji.
He went south to rescue Yongqiu, attacked Li You's army, defeated it, killed Li You, and captured one of the Qin Dynasty's military commanders.
At this time, Qin general Zhang Han defeated Xiang Liang's army and killed Xiang Liang. Pei Gong and Xiang Yu led their troops back east.
King Chu Huai appointed Pei Gong as the governor of Dang County and commanded the army of Dang County.
Peigong granted Cao Shen the title of Silk Holder and was known as Jiancheng Lord.
Later, Cao Shen was promoted to the magistrate of Yuanqi County and was subordinate to Dang County.
From there, Cao Shen followed Pei Gong to attack the army of the prefect of Dongjun and defeated the enemy south of Chengwu.
They attacked Wang Li's army in the south of Chengyang and fought Wang Li's army in Gangli, defeating them severely.
Chasing the fleeing enemy troops, he went west to Kaifeng, attacked Zhao Bi's army, defeated it, and surrounded Zhao Bi in the city of Kaifeng.
Going west, he encountered the Qin Dynasty general Yang Xiong's army in Qu, defeated it, and captured one of the Qin Dynasty's Sima and Yushi.
Cao Shen was promoted to Zhigui and followed Pei Gong to attack Yangwu, captured the Yuan and Feng clans, blocked the Yellow River ferry, returned to attack Zhao Ben's army, and defeated it to the north of Xixiang.
Following Pei Gong, he went south to attack Jiyi, and fought with Lu Xun, the governor of Nanyang County, east of the outer city of Yangcheng. He broke through Lu Xun's army, captured Wan County, captured Lu Xun, and completely pacified Nanyang County.
Following Pei Gong, he went west to attack Wuguan and Yaoguan, and captured these two passes.
He first attacked the Qin army in the south of Lantian, and then attacked the north of Lantian at night, defeating the Qin army. Then he reached Xianyang and destroyed the Qin Dynasty.
After Xiang Yu came to Guanzhong, he named Liu Bang King of Han.
The king of Han granted Cao Shen the title of Marquis of Jiancheng.
Cao Shen followed the King of Han to Guanzhong and was promoted to general.

summary:
summary line 0: Cao Shen, Marquis of Pingyang, was born in Peixian County and served as a warden there during the Qin Dynasty. He followed Emperor Gaozu of Han (then Duke of Pei) as a Zhongjuan, leading military campaigns against Qin forces, including attacks on Huling, Fangyu, Xuexian, and Dang County. He defeated generals such as Zhang Han, Li You, and Wang Li, capturing cities and officials. After Xiang Yu named Liu Bang King of Han, Cao Shen was granted the title Marquis of Jiancheng and later promoted to general. He helped pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, capturing territories like Xiabian and Yongxian, and besieged Zhang Han in Feiqiu.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
定齐，凡得七十馀县。
得故齐王田广相田光，其守相许章，及故齐胶东将军田既。
韩信为齐王，引兵诣陈，与汉王共破项羽，而参留平齐未服者。
项籍已死，天下定，汉王为皇帝，韩信徙为楚王，齐为郡。
参归汉相印。
高帝以长子肥为齐王，而以参为齐相国。
以高祖六年赐爵列侯，与诸侯剖符，世世勿绝。
食邑平阳万六百三十户，号曰平阳侯，除前所食邑。
以齐相国击陈豨将张春军，破之。
黥布反，参以齐相国从悼惠王将兵车骑十二万人，与高祖会击黥布军，大破之。
南至蕲，还定竹邑、相、萧、留。
参功：凡下二国，县一百二十二；得王二人，相三人，将军六人，大莫敖、郡守、司马、候、御史各一人。
孝惠帝元年，除诸侯相国法，更以参为齐丞相。
参之相齐，齐七十城。
天下初定，悼惠王富於春秋，参尽召长老诸生，问所以安集百姓，如齐故诸儒以百数，言人人殊，参未知所定。
闻胶西有盖公，善治黄老言，使人厚币请之。
既见盖公，盖公为言治道贵清静而民自定，推此类具言之。
参於是避正堂，舍盖公焉。
其治要用黄老术，故相齐九年，齐国安集，大称贤相。
惠帝二年，萧何卒。
参闻之，告舍人趣治行， 吾将入相 。
居无何，使者果召参。
参去，属其後相曰： 以齐狱市为寄，慎勿扰也。
後相曰： 治无大於此者乎？ 参曰： 不然。
translation: 
The state of Qi was pacified and more than seventy counties were obtained in total.
They captured the Prime Minister Tian Guang of the former Qi King Tian Guang, Xu Zhang who stayed behind in place of the Prime Minister, and the former Qi State Jiaodong General Tian Ji.
Han Xin became the king of Qi, led his troops to Chen County, joined the king of Han, and defeated Xiang Yu together, while Cao Shen stayed to pacify the unconquered areas of Qi.
Xiang Yu was dead, the world was at peace, the King of Han became emperor, Han Xin was renamed King of Chu, and the state of Qi was divided into counties.
Cao Shen returned the seal of the Han Prime Minister.
Emperor Gao made his eldest son Liu Fei the King of Qi and appointed Cao Shen as the Prime Minister of Qi.
In the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, the titles of the princes were enfeoffed. The imperial court and the princes cut the talismans as proof, so that the titles of the enfeoffed persons could be passed down from generation to generation without being extinguished.
Emperor Gaozu granted Cao Shen 10,630 households in Pingyang as a fiefdom, with the title Marquis of Pingyang, and took back the fiefdoms previously entrusted to Cao Shen.
As the Prime Minister of Qi, Cao Shen led troops to attack Chen Xi's general Zhang Chun's army and defeated the enemy.
Yingbu rebelled. As the Prime Minister of Qi, Cao Shen followed Qi Hui King Liu Fei and led 120,000 troops. Together with Gaozu, he attacked Yingbu's army and defeated the enemy.
They marched southward to Qi County, then returned to the army and pacified Zhuyi, Xiangxian, Xiaoxian and Liuxian.
Cao Shen's achievements: he conquered two vassal states and 122 counties in total; captured two vassal kings, three prime ministers of the vassal states, six generals, and one each of the county guard, Sima, military marquis, and censor.
In the first year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, he abolished the decree of establishing a prime minister's state in the vassal states and appointed Cao Shen as the prime minister of Qi.
When Cao Shen was the prime minister of Qi, there were seventy cities in Qi.
At that time, the world had just been peaceful, and King Huihui was very young. Cao Shen summoned the elderly and scholars to ask for ways to appease the people. But there were hundreds of scholars in Qi State, and they had different opinions. Cao Shen didn't know how to make a decision.
He heard that there was a Duke Gai in Jiaoxi who studied Huang Lao's theory intensively, so he sent someone to invite him with generous gifts.
After meeting Gai Gong, Gai Gong told Cao Shen that the most important way to govern the country is to be pure and inactive, allowing the people to settle down on their own. He recommended similar things in this regard and stated them all to Cao Shen.
Cao Shen then gave up his main hall and let Gai Gong live in it.
From then on, Cao Shen's method of governing the country was to adopt Huang Lao's teachings, so he served as the prime minister of Qi for nine years. The country of Qi was stable, and people greatly praised him as a wise prime minister.
In the second year of Emperor Hui's reign, Xiao He passed away.
When Cao Shen heard the news, he told his disciples to pack their bags quickly and said: I am going to the court to become the prime minister.
Soon after, people sent by the imperial court came to summon Cao Shen.
When Cao Shen left, he told the subsequent prime minister of Qi: The prison lawsuits and markets of Qi should be regarded as the sustenance of certain people's actions. These actions should be treated with caution and not interfere easily.
The later prime minister said: Is there nothing more important than governing the country? Cao Shen said: That's not the case.

summary:
summary line 1: Cao Shen served as acting Prime Minister Zuo, suppressing rebellions by King Bao of Wei and others, capturing Wei and Zhao territories. He followed Han Xin to defeat Qi, pacifying over seventy counties. After Xiang Yu's death, Cao Shen became Prime Minister of Qi under King Liu Fei, governing with Huang Lao principles of purity and inaction for nine years, stabilizing the state. When Xiao He died, Cao Shen succeeded him as Han Prime Minister, adhering strictly to Xiao He's laws without changes. He selected steady officials, dismissed those seeking reputation, and spent his time drinking, avoiding interference in minor affairs. When Emperor Hui questioned his governance, Cao Shen argued that following the established laws of Emperor Gaozu and Xiao He was sufficient.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
参为汉相国，出入三年。
卒，谥懿侯。
子窋代侯。
百姓歌之曰： 萧何为法，顜若画一。曹参代之，守而勿失。
载其清靖，民以宁一。
平阳侯窋，高后时为御史大夫。
孝文帝立，免为侯。
立二十九年卒，谥为静侯。
子奇代侯，立七年卒，谥为简侯。
子时代侯。
时尚平阳公主，生子襄。
时病疠，归国。
立二十三年卒，谥夷侯。
子襄代侯。
襄尚卫长公主，生子宗。
立十六年卒，谥为共侯。
子宗代侯。
征和二年中，宗坐太子死，国除。
太史公曰：曹相国参攻城野战之功所以能多若此者，以与淮阴侯俱。
及信已灭，而列侯成功，唯独参擅其名。
参为汉相国，清静极言合道。
然百姓离秦之酷後，参与休息无为，故天下俱称其美矣。
translation: 
Cao Shen served as the Prime Minister of the Han Dynasty for three years.
After his death, he was posthumously named Yihou.
Cao Shen's son, Cao Cheng, succeeded his father as the marquis.
The common people praised Cao Shen's deeds and said: Xiao He formulated laws that were clear and consistent; Cao Shen succeeded Xiao He as prime minister and abided by Xiao He's laws without changing them.
Cao Shen implemented his pure and inactive approach, and the people were peaceful and undisturbed.
Cao Cheng, Marquis of Pingyang, was the imperial censor at that time.
Emperor Xiaowen ascended the throne and was dismissed as a marquis.
Cao Cheng died after 29 years as a marquis, and his posthumous title was Jinghou.
Cao Cheng's son Cao Qi took over the throne and died after seven years of service. His posthumous title was Marquis Jian.
Cao Qi's son Cao Shi succeeded him.
Cao Shi married Princess Pingyang and gave birth to a son, Cao Xiang.
Cao Shi got sick and returned to the feudal country.
Cao Shi died in his 23rd year as a Marquis, and his posthumous title was Yihou.
Cao Shi's son Cao Xiang succeeded him.
Cao Xiang married Princess Wei Chang and had a son, Cao Zong.
Cao Xiang died in his sixteenth year as a marquis, and his posthumous title was Gonghou.
Cao Xiang's son Cao Zong succeeded him.
In the second year of Zhenghe, Cao Zong was implicated in the mutiny launched by Emperor Wu's crown prince. He was convicted and executed, and the feudal state was abolished.
Tai Shigong said: The reason why Cao Shen, the Prime Minister of Cao, has so many military exploits is because he worked with Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin.
When Han Xin was eliminated, only Cao Shen was credited with the military exploits accomplished by other princes.
As the prime minister of the Han Dynasty, Cao Shen strongly advocated purity and inaction, which was completely in line with Taoist doctrine.
After the people suffered from the cruel rule of the Qin Dynasty, Cao Shen gave them a chance to recuperate, so everyone in the world praised his virtue.

summary:
summary line 2: Cao Shen served as Prime Minister for three years, dying with the posthumous title Yihou. His descendants inherited the title until Cao Zong was executed for involvement in a mutiny, ending the feudal state. The people praised Cao Shen for maintaining Xiao He's clear laws and allowing peace through non-interference.

