Chunk 0: 
original: 
古者天子建国，诸侯立家，自卿、大夫以至于庶人，各有等差，是以民服事其上，而下无觊觎。
孔子曰： 天下有道，政不在大夫。
百官有司奉法承令，以修所职，失职有诛，侵官有罚。
夫然，故上下相顺，而庶事理焉。
周室既微，礼乐征伐自诸侯出。
桓、文之后，大夫世权，陪臣执命。
陵夷至于战国，合从连衡，力政争强。
由是列国公子，魏有信陵、赵有平原、齐有孟尝、楚有春申，皆借王公之势，竞为游侠，鸡鸣狗盗，无不宾礼。
而赵相虞卿弃国捐君，以周穷交魏齐之厄；信陵无忌窃符矫命，戮将专师，以赴平原之急：皆以取重诸侯，显名天下，扼腕而游谈者，以四豪为称首。
于是背公死党之议成，守职奉上之义废矣。
及至汉兴，禁网疏阔，未之匡改也。
是故代相陈豨从车千乘，而吴濞、淮南皆招宾客以千数。
外戚大臣魏其、武安之属竞逐于京师，布衣游侠剧孟、郭解之徒驰骛于闾阎，权行州域，力折公侯。
众庶荣其名迹，觊而慕之。
虽其陷于刑辟，自与杀身成名，若季路、仇牧，死而不悔也。
故曾子曰： 上失其道，民散久矣。
非明王在上，视之以好恶，齐之以礼法，民曷由知禁而反正乎！
古之正法：五伯，三王之罪人也；而六国，五伯之罪人也。
夫四豪者，又六国之罪人也。
况于郭解之伦，以匹夫之细，窃杀生之权，其罪已不容于诛矣。
观其温良泛爱，振穷周急，谦退不伐，亦皆有绝异之姿。
惜乎不入于道德，苟放纵于末流，杀身亡宗，非不幸也。
translation: 
In ancient times, when the emperor established a country, the princes established their families, and there were certain levels of hierarchy from officials to common people, so that the people could obey their superiors and subordinates would stop having any wrong ideas.
Confucius said: When the world is at peace, the highest political power of the country will not be in the hands of the officials.
All officials can obey the law and perform their duties, those who neglect their duties will be investigated and those who violate the law will be punished.
Only in this way can everything go smoothly and everything is in order.
With the decline of the Zhou royal family, the formulation of ritual and music conquests began to be made by the princes individually.
After Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin, the officials had exclusive power and issued orders to important ministers in the court.
When the situation evolved into the Warring States Period, the princes began to join forces with each other. They abandoned propriety and justice and fought with prestige and force.
As a result, some princes from various countries, such as Lord Xinling of Wei, Lord Pingyuan of Zhao, Lord Mengchang of Qi, and Lord Chunshen of Chu, all relied on the authority of princes and nobles to compete to become knight-errants. Those who croaked, roosters, and dogs were all disrespectful and submitted to them.
The Prime Minister Yu Qing did not hesitate to leave the country and the monarch to save his friend Wei Qi from danger; Wei Wuji, the Lord of Xinling, stole the military talisman, falsely conveyed the monarch's orders, hunted down the generals, and sent out a dedicated army to relieve the Pingyuan Lord of Zhao State from being besieged by the Qin soldiers. They are all famous for their emphasis on relations between princes. Those chivalrous people who hold hands and talk are all led by the "four heroes": Lord Xinling, Lord Pingyuan, Lord Mengchang and Lord Chunshen.
As a result, the agreement to betray the imperial court and form secret alliances with best friends became a reality, and the culture of strictly observing official duties and respecting the monarch began to decline.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, bans and regulations were very loose, so the situation of deportation remained unchanged.
Therefore, the Prime Minister sent thousands of chariots with rare entourage, and King Liu Bi of Wu and King Liu An of Huainan both invited thousands of guests.
The subordinates of the foreign ministers Wei Qihou Dou Ying and Wu'an Hou Tianyi were wandering around in the capital to cause trouble. Meng and Guo Xie, who were civilians, wandered in the lanes and rampaged through the prefectures and counties, and their power overran the princes.
Many ordinary people regard their fame and deeds as a kind of honor, yearning for and admiring them.
Even though they were punished by the criminal law, they did not hesitate to kill themselves to become famous, just like Ji Lu and Qiu Mu, who died without regrets.
Therefore, Zengzi said: If those in high positions do not act according to the rules, the people will have long since abandoned their moral principles.
Without a sage king above him to instruct the good and evil in the world and formulate the country's etiquette, how can the people know the prohibitions and correct themselves!
The ancient orthodox view is that the Five Hegemons are the sinners of the Three Kings; and the Six Kingdoms are the sinners of the Five Hegemons.
From this point of view, these four tycoons should be the sinners of the Six Nations.
What's more, people like Guo Xie, in their low status as civilians, stole the power of life and death. Their crimes are already intolerable in heaven and earth.
However, on the other hand, they are gentle and friendly, helpful, humble and courteous, and they all have extraordinary charm.
It is a pity that those who do not conform to the orthodox moral standards can only be classified as the lowest class of unrefined people. It is only natural that they should be killed and exterminated!


Chunk 1: 
original: 
自魏其、武安、淮南之后，天子切齿，卫、霍改节。
然郡国豪桀处处各有，京师亲戚冠盖相望，亦古今常道，莫足言者。
唯成帝时，外家王氏宾客为盛，而楼护为帅。
及王莽时，诸公之间陈遵为雄，闾里之侠原涉为魁。
朱家，鲁人，高祖同时也。
鲁人皆以儒教，而朱家用侠闻。
所臧活豪士以百数，其余庸人不可胜言。
然终不伐其能，饮其德，诸所尝施，唯恐见之。
振人不赡，先从贫贱始。
家亡余财，衣不兼采，食不重味，乘不过軥牛。
专趋人之急，甚于己私。
既阴脱季布之厄，及布尊贵，终身不见。
自关以东，莫不延颈愿交。
楚田仲以侠闻，父事朱家，自以为行弗及也。
田仲死后，有剧孟。
剧孟者，洛阳人也。
周人以商贾为资，剧孟以侠显。
吴、楚反时，条侯为太尉，乘传东，将至河南，得剧孟，喜曰： 吴、楚举大事而不求剧孟，吾知其无能为已。
天下骚动，大将军得之若一敌国云。
剧孟行大类朱家，而好博，多少年之戏。
然孟母死，自远方送丧盖千乘。
及孟死，家无十金之财。
而符离王孟，亦以侠称江、淮之间。
是时，济南瞷氏、陈周肤亦以豪闻。
景帝闻之，使使尽诛此属。
其后，代诸白、梁韩毋辟、阳翟薛况、陕寒孺，纷纷复出焉。
郭解，河内轵人也，温善相人许负外孙也。
解父任侠，孝文时诛死。
解为人静悍，不饮酒。
少时阴贼感概，不快意，所杀甚众。
translation: 
Ever since Wei Qihou Dou Ying, Wu'an Hou Tianfen and Huainan King Liu An, the emperor hated them with bitter hatred. Wei Qing and Huo Qubing used them as negative examples.
However, there are heroes everywhere in the county, and their relatives and friends in the capital echo them both inside and outside. This is also a normal phenomenon in ancient and modern times, and there is nothing to say about it.
It was just that during the reign of Emperor Cheng, the number of guests in the Wang family's home was very popular, and Lou Hu was the commander-in-chief.
When Wang Mang came to power, Chen Zun was the most powerful among the princes, and Yuan She was the leader of the knights in the lanes.
The Zhu family, a native of Lu, lived at the same time as Gaozu.
The people of Lu were famous for their belief in Confucianism, but the Zhu family was famous for their love of knight-errants.
He has adopted hundreds of knights and heroes, and there are also countless mediocre people.
However, he never showed off himself, and gave all charity for fear of being spread.
When giving to others, start with the poor and humble.
As a result, his own family was so poor that he could not find any extra property. He only used plain cloth for clothes, did not pay attention to the taste of food, and only traveled by calf cart when going out.
He loves to worry about other people's worries and regards other people's matters as more important than his own.
Although he secretly helped Ji Bu escape his bad luck, he never saw him again after he became rich.
Therefore, there is no one in the Kanto area who does not want to make friends with him.
Tian Zhong of Chu State was famous as a knight-errant and worshiped the Zhu family as his adoptive father. He thought that he was far behind San Sai.
After Danshi died, another Zhao Meng came out.
Ju Meng was from Luoyang.
Zhou people used business as capital, but Ju Meng was famous for being a hero.
When Wu and Chu rebelled, Tiaohou was appointed Taiwei, and took a chariot to the east to serve as a general. As soon as he arrived in Henan, he got Jumeng. He said happily: "Wu and Chu want to achieve great things but don't seek Ju Meng. I know they can't succeed."
At that time, the world was in turmoil, and the general's possession of Ju Meng was like seizing an enemy country.
Ju Meng's character is very similar to that of the Zhu family, and he likes gambling and often plays games with young people.
However, Jumeng's mother passed away, and thousands of funeral vehicles came from far away.
When Ju Meng died, the family had little money left.
There is also Wang Meng of Fuli, who is also famous among Jianghuai for his reputation as a heroic hero.
At that time, Jinan's family and Zhou Fu of Chenjun were also famous for their heroes.
Emperor Jing heard about them and sent people to kill them all.
Later, the Bai family of Zhujia in Fajun, Han Wupi of Liang State, Xue Kuang of Yangdi, Hanru of Shaanxi, etc. also came back as famous heroes one after another.
Guo Xie was a native of Zhi County, Hanoi County, and the grandson of Xu Fu, a good minister from Wen.
Guo Xie's father was a chivalrous man and was killed during the reign of Emperor Xiaowen.
Guo Xie was a calm and brave person, and did not like drinking.
When he was young, he was vicious and violent. Whenever he was unhappy, he would use force to kill people. Many people were hurt by him.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
以躯借友报仇，臧命作奸剽攻，休乃铸钱掘冢，不可胜数。
适有天幸，窘急常得脱，若遇赦。
及解年长，更折节为俭，以德报怨，厚施而薄望。
然其自喜为侠益甚。
既已振人之命，不矜其功，其阴贼著于心本发于睚眦如故云。
而少年慕其行，亦辄为报仇，不使知也。
解姊子负解之势，与人饮，使之釂，非其任，强灌之。
人怒，刺杀解姊子，亡去。
解姊怒曰： 以翁伯时人杀吾子，贼不得！ 弃其尸道旁，弗葬，欲以辱解。
解使人微知贼处。
贼窘自归，具以实告解。
解曰： 公杀之当，吾儿不直。
遂去其贼，罪其姊子，收而葬之。
诸公闻之，皆多解之义，益附焉。
解出，人皆避，有一人独箕踞视之。
解问其姓名，客欲杀之。
解曰： 居邑屋不见敬，是吾德不修也，彼何罪！
乃阴请尉史曰： 是人吾所重，至践更时脱之。
每至直更，数过，吏弗求。
怪之，问其故，解使脱之。
箕踞者乃肉袒谢罪。
少年闻之，愈益慕解之行。
洛阳人有相仇者，邑中贤豪居间以十数，终不听。
客乃见解。
解夜见仇家，仇家曲听。
解谓仇家： 吾闻洛阳诸公在间，多不听。
今子幸而听解，解奈何从它县夺人邑贤大夫权乎！
乃夜去，不使人知，曰： 且毋庸，待我去，令洛阳豪居间乃听。
解为人短小，恭俭，出未尝有骑，不敢乘车入其县庭。
之旁郡国，为人请求事，事可出，出之；不可者，各令厌其意，然后乃敢尝酒食。
translation: 
He was willing to sacrifice his life to avenge himself with blood. He also hid desperadoes and carried out robbery and theft. When he had nothing to do, he minted counterfeit money and dug graves. His misdeeds were countless.
Thanks to God's blessing, he was often relieved in times of crisis, as if he had experienced amnesty.
When Guo Xie grew up, he began to reflect on his mistakes, exercise self-discipline, respond to grudges with kindness, be willing to do good, and be pure of desire.
However, his desire to be a knight became stronger and stronger.
Although he has done some good deeds to save lives without seeking fame, his sinister nature is often shown between his eyebrows and remains the same as before.
Many young men admired his character and always took risks and hurt others for revenge, but Guo Xie himself had no way of knowing these things.
Guo Xie's sister's son relied on Guo Xie's reputation and became very domineering. Once he drank with others and made someone drink all the wine in the palace. The person couldn't bear it, so he forced the person to drink.
The man was furious, assassinated Guo Xie's sister's son and fled.
Guo Xie's sister said: You dared to kill my son while Guo Xie was still alive, but the murderer escaped. So she abandoned the son's body on the roadside without burial, hoping to anger Guo Xie with humiliation.
Guo Xie sent people to find out where the murderer was.
He was desperate, so he came over and told Guo Xie the truth.
Guo Xie said: You are right to kill him, it is my son who is shameful.
So he let the murderer go, and Guo Xie placed the blame on his sister's son, collected his body and buried it.
When everyone heard about this, they all respected Guo Xie's benevolence and righteousness, and more and more people followed him.
One time when Guo Xie went out, everyone avoided him. Only one person sat there with his legs stretched out and looked at him.
Guo Xie asked him his name, and his followers wanted to kill the man.
Guo Xie said: Someone disrespected me in the alley because my moral character was questionable. What crime did he have?
So he secretly told Wei Shi: "This man is someone I respect. Please don't use him when recruiting soldiers who are on duty."
Whenever it was time to change the duty, he went there several times, but the officials in charge did not let him change the duty.
He was very surprised and asked the reason. The official told him that it was Guo Xie who exempted him from duty.
Only those who showed disrespect to Guo Xie bared their chests and apologized to Guo Xie.
When the young people heard this, they all admired Guo Xie's character even more.
Someone in Luoyang had an enemy, and more than ten famous people and wealthy people in the city intervened, but the enemy did not listen to his advice.
Someone came to ask Guo Xie.
Guo Xie went to his enemy's house at night to see him, and the enemy finally succumbed to him.
Guo Xie said to the man: I heard that everyone in Luoyang was trying to mediate, but you didn't listen.
Now I am fortunate to have listened to my Guo Xie's advice, but how can I, Guo Xie, compete for the power of local celebrities as a foreigner!
So he returned home at night without letting anyone else know about it. He said: "It won't count this time. It will be counted when I leave and let the wealthy people from Luoyang come to mediate again."
Guo Xie was short in stature, humble and frugal. He never had a chariot accompanying him when he went out, and he did not dare to ride into the official court of the county.
When you arrive in a neighboring county, if you are asked to find something to do, if you can shirk it, you can shirk it; if you can't shirk it, you must satisfy everyone before you dare to eat and drink from others.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
诸公以此严重之，争为用。
邑中少年及旁近县豪夜半过门，常十余车，请得解客舍养之。
及徙豪茂陵也，解贫，不中訾。吏恐，不敢不徙。
卫将军为言： 郭解家贫，不中徙。
上曰： 解布衣，权至使将军，此其家不贫！
解徙，诸公送者出千余万。
轵人杨季主子为县掾，隔之，解兄子断杨掾头。
解入关，关中贤豪知与不知，闻声争交欢。
邑人又杀杨季主，季主家上书人又杀阙下。
上闻，乃下吏捕解。
解亡，置其母家室夏阳，身至临晋。
临晋籍少翁素不知解，因出关。
籍少翁已出解，解传太原，所过辄告主人处。
吏逐迹至籍少翁，少翁自杀，口绝。
久之得解，穷治所犯为，而解所杀，皆在赦前。
轵有儒生侍使者坐，客誉郭解，生曰： 解专以奸犯公法，何谓贤？
解客闻之，杀此生，断舌。吏以责解，解实不知杀者，杀者亦竟莫知为谁。吏奏解无罪。
御史大夫公孙弘议曰： 解布衣为任侠行权，以睚眦杀人，解不知，此罪甚于解知杀之。
当大逆无道。
遂族解。
自是之后，侠者极众，而无足数者。
然关中长安樊中子，槐里赵王孙，长陵高公子，西河郭翁中，太原鲁翁孺，临淮皃长卿，东阳陈君孺，虽为侠而恂恂有退让君子之风。
至若北道姚氏，西道诸杜，南道仇景，东道赵佗羽公子，南阳赵调之徒，盗跖而居民间者耳，曷足道哉！
此乃乡者朱家所羞也。萭章字子夏，长安人也。
长安炽盛，街闾各有豪侠，章在城西柳市，号曰 城西萭章子夏 。
为京兆尹门下督，从至殿中，侍中诸侯贵人争欲揖章，莫与京兆尹言者。
章逡循甚惧。
其后京兆不复从也。
与中书令石显相善，亦得显权力，门车常接毂。
至成帝初，石显坐专权擅势免官，徙归故郡。
显资巨万，当去，留床席器物数百万直，欲以与章，章不受。
宾客或问其故，章叹曰： 吾以布衣见哀于石君，石君家破，不能有以安也，而受其财物，此为石氏之祸，萭氏反当以为福邪！
translation: 
Everyone took this matter seriously and scrambled to use those people.
Young people from towns and wealthy people from neighboring counties came to visit Guo Xie in the middle of the night. More than ten carriages often stopped in front of his door. Most of them came to ask for Guo Xie's adoption.
When it was time to move the wealthy people to Maoling, Guo Xie was poor and his property did not meet the standards for the move. But the officials in charge were too timid to prevent him from moving.
General Wei Qing spoke for him: Guo Xie's family is poor and is not eligible for migration.
The emperor said: Guo Xie is just a commoner, but he can get the general to intercede for him. How can this be considered poverty?
Guo Xie had no choice but to move away. Before his departure, people rushed to see him off, bringing tens of thousands of items to see him off.
The son of Yang Jizhu, a native of Ga County, was appointed as an official in the county. He stopped the people who came to see him off, but the son of Guo Xie's brother actually killed the man named Yang and took his head.
After Guo Xie entered the Pass, the celebrities and wealthy guests in Guanzhong, whether they knew him or not, came to make friends with him.
The local people killed Yang Jizhu again, and Yang Jizhu's family complained and was killed in the palace.
When the emperor heard about this, he sent officials to arrest Guo Xie.
Guo Xie fled upon hearing the news and moved his mother's family to Xia Yang while he went to Linjin.
There was a man named Ji Shaoweng in Linjin who admired his name but had never seen Guo Xie, so he released him privately.
The young man released Guo Xie, and Guo Xie went to Taiyuan. Wherever he went, he often told the host of the incident.
The arrester followed the traces and found the young man, who was so anxious that he committed suicide, thus cutting off all witnesses.
After a long time, Guo Xie was finally arrested and the crimes he committed were comprehensively investigated. However, his murders all occurred before the amnesty and it was difficult to pursue them.
There was a Confucian scholar sitting with the envoy in Zhi County. Most of the people spoke well of Guo Xie, but the Confucian scholar said: Guo Xie specialized in violating public laws with treachery and robbery. How can we say he is a wise man?
Upon hearing this, Guo Xie's family members assassinated the Confucian scholar and cut off his tongue. For this reason, the officials brought Guo Xie up for questioning. Guo Xie really did not know who the murderer was, and the murderer was not identified at the time. The officials reported that Guo Xie was not guilty.
Gongsun Hong, the imperial censor, pointed out: As a commoner, Guo Xie formed a secret faction, abused his power, and killed people wantonly for trivial matters. Guo Xie himself did not know that this crime exceeded the crime of beheading that Guo Xie knew about.
It should be punished as a crime of treason.
So the emperor ordered Guo Xie's entire family to be executed.
From then on, there were many knights from various places, but there were none worth mentioning.
But Fan Zhongzi from Chang'an in Guanzhong, Wangsun Fang from Huaili, Gongzi Gao from Changling, Guo Wengzhong from Xihe, Lu Wengru from Taiyuan, Er Changqing from Linhuai, Chen Junru from Shuyang, etc., although they are knights, they all have the courtesy and humility of gentlemen.
As for the Yao family in the North Road, the Du families in the West Road, Qiu Jing in the South Road, Young Master Tuo Yu in Shu Road, Zhao Diao in Nanyang and others, they are all bandits and are mixed among the common people, so why bother!
Even people like the Zhu family would feel humiliated. Wan Zhang, courtesy name Zixia, was from Chang'an.
Chang'an is a very prosperous place, and there are many heroic people in the streets. Wan Zhang lived in Liushi, west of the city, and was known as Wan Zixia in the west of the city.
Later, he became Jing Zhaoyin's secret friend and followed Jing Zhaoyin to the palace. Among the servants, princes and nobles, they were all vying to bow to Wan Zhang, but no one went to talk to Jing Zhaoyin.
Wan Zhang was very embarrassed and frightened.
From then on, Jing Zhaoyin never asked Wan Zhang to accompany him again.
Wan Zhang was very close to Zhongshu Ling Shi Xian, and they also took advantage of Shi Xian's power, so there was always a continuous flow of cars and horses in front of his house.
In the early years of Emperor Cheng's reign, Shi Xian was dismissed from office because of the crime of taking advantage of power and moved back to his hometown.
At that time, Shi Xian's family had a fortune of tens of millions. Before leaving, he left some bed mats and utensils worth several millions and wanted to give them to Wan Zhang, but Wan Zhang did not accept them.
Some guests asked about the reason, and Wan Zhang sighed and said: I am a commoner wearing cloth, and I owe you the pity of Mr. Shi. Now that Mr. Shi has ruined his family and career, I cannot save him, but I still accept his property. Could it be that this misfortune of the Shi family, I, the Wan family, regard it as a blessing?


Chunk 4: 
original: 
诸公以是服而称之。
河平中，王尊为京兆尹，捕击豪侠，杀章及箭张回、酒市赵君都、贾子光，皆长安名豪，报仇怨养刺客者也。
楼护字君卿，齐人。
父世医也，护少随父为医长安，出入贵戚家。
护诵医经、本草、方术数十万言，长者咸爱重之，共谓曰： 以君卿之材，何不宦学乎？
由是辞其父，学经传，为京兆吏数年，甚得名誉。
是时，王氏方盛，宾客满门，五侯兄弟争名，其客各有所厚，不得左右，唯护尽入其门，咸得其欢心。
结士大夫，无所不倾，其交长者，尤见亲而敬，众以是服。
为人短小精辩，论议常依名节，听之者皆竦。
与谷永俱为五侯上客，长安号曰 谷子云笔札，楼君卿唇舌 ，言其见信用也。
母死，送葬者致车二三千两，闾里歌之曰： 五侯治丧楼君卿。
久之，平阿侯举护方正，为谏大夫，使郡国。
护假贷，多持币帛，过齐，上书求上先人冢，因会宗族故人，各以亲疏与束帛，一日数百金之费。
使还，奏事称意，擢为天水太守。
数岁免，家长安中。
时成都侯商为大司马卫将军，罢朝，欲候护，其主簿谏： 将军至尊，不宜入闾巷。
商不听，遂往至护家。
家狭小，官属立车下，久住移时，天欲雨，主簿谓西曹诸掾曰： 不肯强谏，反雨立闾巷！
translation: 
After hearing this, everyone was convinced and praised his conduct.
During the Heping period, Wang Zun became Jing Zhaoyin and began to capture the heroes. He killed Wan Zhang, Zhang Hui, the archer, Tong Jundu from the wine market, Jia Ziguang and others. They were all famous heroes in Chang'an City, and they were also those who loved private revenge and adopted assassins.
Lou Hu, courtesy name Junqing, was from Qi State.
His father was a doctor handed down from generation to generation. When Lou Hu was a child, he practiced medicine with his father in Chang'an and visited the homes of noble relatives.
Lou Hu recited hundreds of thousands of medical classics, materia medica, and alchemy books. The elders loved and valued him, and they all said to him: With your talent, Lou Junqing, why don't you learn to be an official?
From then on, Lou Hu said goodbye to his father and began to study the classics. He worked as a minor official in the capital for several years and gained a great reputation.
At this time, the Wang family had just become prosperous, and the house was full of guests. The five brothers were competing for fame and fortune, and each of them had his own favorite people to treat the guests. It was difficult for the guests to have both sides. Only Lou Hu was accepted by them all at the same time, and gained the favor of each of them.
When Lou Hu made friends with the scholar-bureaucrats, he revealed everything about himself. When he made friends with the elders, he showed even more kindness and respect. Everyone admired him for this.
Lou Hu is a short man and is eloquent. When he talks, he can often relate honor and integrity, which makes the listeners feel in awe.
He and Gu Yong were both honored guests of the Five Marquises, so there was a rumor in Chang'an City that Gu Ziyun's writings and Lou Junqing's words spoke of their respective talents that were valued by the world.
When Lou Hu's mother died, two or three thousand mourners came, and people in the alleys sang: "Lou Junqing is busy organizing the funeral for the five princes."
After a long time, Ping'ahou recommended Lou Hu as a talented man, appointed as an admonishing official, and sent out as an envoy to the county.
Lou Hu was responsible for supervising the property lent by the government to the poor. He had a lot of coins and silks with him. He passed by Qi State and wrote a letter requesting that the graves of his ancestors be visited. This allowed him to meet his relatives and friends, and he gave some money and silks to each of them according to their closeness. In one day, he distributed gifts worth a hundred gold.
After the envoy returned to the court, Lou Hu reported the situation of the envoy and the emperor was satisfied, so he was promoted to the prefect of Tianshui County.
A few years later, Lou Hu was dismissed from office and lived in Chang'an City.
At that time, the Marquis of Chengdu, Wang Shang, was appointed as the Great Sima Wei General. After going to court once, he wanted to visit Lou Hu. His boss, Bo Guan, persuaded him: General, as a supreme being, it is not appropriate for you to go in and out of lanes.
Wang Shang didn't listen, so he went to Lou Hu's house.
The building guard's residence was very small, and they could only stand under the car. They stopped for a long time. It was going to rain. The chief registrar said to the officials of Xicao: The general did not listen to the advice, and now he has to stand in the alley in the rain!


Chunk 5: 
original: 
商还，或白主簿语，商恨，以他职事去主簿，终身废锢。
后护复以荐为广汉太守。
元始中，王莽为安汉公，专政，莽长子宇与妻兄吕宽谋以血涂莽第门，欲惧莽令归政。
发觉，莽大怒，杀宇，而吕宽亡。
宽父素与护相知，宽至广汉过护，不以事实语也。
到数日，名捕宽诏书至，护执宽。
莽大喜，征护入为前煇光，封息乡侯，列子九卿。
莽居摄，槐里大贼赵朋、霍鸿等群起，延入前煇光界，护坐免为庶人。
其居位，爵禄赂遗所得亦缘手尽。
既退居里巷，时五侯皆已死，年老失势，宾客益衰。
至王莽篡位，以旧恩召见护，封为楼旧里附城。
而成都侯商子邑为大司空，贵重，商故人皆敬事邑，唯护自安如旧节，邑亦父事之，不敢有阙。
时请召宾客，邑居樽下，称 贱子上寿 。
坐者百数，皆离席伏，护独东乡正坐，字谓邑曰： 公子贵如何！
初，护有故人吕公，无子，归护。
护身与吕公、妻与吕妪同食。
及护家居，妻子颇厌吕公。
护闻之，流涕责其妻子曰： 吕公以故旧穷老托身于我，义所当奉。
遂养吕公终身。
护卒，子嗣其爵。
陈遵字孟公，杜陵人也。
祖父遂，字长子，宣帝微时与有故，相随博弈，数负进。
及宣帝即位，用遂，稍迁至太原太守，乃赐遂玺书曰： 制诏太原太守：官尊禄厚，可以偿博进矣。
妻君宁时在旁，知状。
translation: 
After Wang Shang returned, he learned these words of the chief registrar and was very disgusted with him. He dismissed him from the post of chief registrar on the grounds of job transfer, and never let him serve as an official again in his life.
Later, Lou Hu was recommended as the prefect of Guanghan County again.
During the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, Wang Mang was appointed Duke of Anhan and specialized in government affairs. Wang Mang's eldest son Guang Guang and his wife's brother Dankuan conspired to smear Wang Cha's house door with blood in an attempt to threaten Wang Mang into handing over the power of government.
After discovering this, Wang Mang was furious and killed Wang Yu, but Lu Kuan fled.
Dankuan's father had always known Lujin, but Dankuan didn't tell him the real situation until he passed by Lujin in Luhuan County.
A few days later, the edict naming Lu Kuan was sent, and Lou Hu immediately detained Dan Kuan.
Wang Ling was overjoyed because of this. He recruited Shan Gu as Qian Hui Guang, and was given the title of Marquis of Xixiang, and was listed among the nine ministers.
During the regency of Wang Mang, the big thieves Zhao Peng and Huo Hong in Huaili started a rebellion, which also spread to the areas under the jurisdiction of the former Huiguang. Lou Hu was convicted and dismissed from office and became a civilian.
When he was an official, he spent all his official salary, bribes and other property.
Back in the alley, the five princes were all dead at that time. He was really losing his power in old age, and there were fewer and fewer guests.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne and became the emperor, he summoned Lou Hu because of his old feelings and made him an affiliated city in Loujiuli.
Wang Yi, the son of the Marquis of Chengdu Wang Shang, became the Grand Sikong and was very distinguished. Wang Shang's old friends all respected Wang Yi, but Lou Hu still treated him with the previous etiquette. Wang Yi also regarded Lou Hu as his father and did not dare to be rude.
At that time, Wang Yi summoned guests, and Wang Yi stayed under the wine bottles. It is called "a cheap man's longevity".
There were hundreds of people sitting there, and they all left the table and bowed to the ground, but Lou Hu sat alone, facing the east, upright. Later, he wrote to Wang Yi and said: Mr. Wang, you are too noble!
At first, Lou Hu had an old friend named Lu Gong who had no heirs, so he came to stay at Lou Hu's house.
Lou Hu and Lu Gong, Lou's wife and Lu Concubine were eating together.
After Lou Hu was dismissed as an official, his wife was very tired of Lu Gong.
When Lou Hu found out about this, he cried and blamed his wife, saying: Mr. Lu came to live in my house because of old feelings and because he was lonely and poor. Morally speaking, we should support him.
So he served Lu Gong for life.
After Lou Hu's death, his son inherited his title.
Chen Zun, courtesy name Meng Gong, was born in Duling County.
His grandfather's name was Chen Sui, also known as the eldest son. When Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty was a humble man, he was very close to him and often played chess with him. As a result, he owed gambling debts many times.
When Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he appointed Chen Sui, and soon transferred him to be the prefect of Taiyuan. One day Emperor Xuan gave Chen Sui a seal saying: Make an imperial edict to the prefect of Taiyuan: Now that you have a high official position and a good salary, you can repay the money you lost in gambling.
Your wife, Junning, was present at the time and knows the truth.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
遂于是辞谢，因曰： 事在元平元年赦令前。
其见厚如此。
元帝时，征遂为京兆尹，至廷尉。
遵少孤，与张竦伯松俱为京兆史。
竦博学通达，以廉俭自守，而遵放纵不拘，操行虽异，然相亲友，哀帝之末俱著名字，为后进冠。
并入公府，公府掾史率皆羸车小马，不上鲜明，而遵独极舆马衣服之好，门外车骑交错。
又日出醉归，曹事数废。
西曹以故事適之，侍曹辄诣寺舍白遵曰： 陈卿今日以某事適。
遵曰： 满百乃相闻。
故事，有百適者斥，满百，西曹白请斥。
大司徒马宫大儒优士，又重遵，谓西曹： 此人大度士，奈何以小文责之？
乃举遵能治三辅剧县，补郁夷令。
久之，与扶风相失，自免去。
槐里大贼赵朋、霍鸿等起，遵为校尉，击朋、鸿有功，封嘉威侯。
居长安中，列侯近臣贵戚皆贵重之。
牧守当之官，及郡国豪桀至京师者，莫不相因到遵门。
遵嗜酒，每大饮，宾客满堂，辄关门，取客车辖投井中，虽有急，终不得去。
尝有部刺史奏事，过遵，值其方饮，刺史大穷，候遵沾醉时，突入见遵母，叩头自白当对尚书有期会状，母乃令从后阁出去。
遵大率常醉，然事亦不废。
长八尺余，长头大鼻，容貌甚伟。
略涉传记，赡于文辞。
性善书，与人尺牍，主皆藏去以为荣。
请求不敢逆，所到，衣冠怀之，唯恐在后。
时列侯有与遵同姓字者，每至人门，曰陈孟公，坐中莫不震动，既至而非，因号其人曰陈惊坐云。
王莽素奇遵材，在位多称誉者，由是起为河南太守。
既至官，当遣从史西，召善书吏十人于前，治私书谢京师故人。
遵冯几，口占书吏，且省官事，书数百封，亲疏各有意，河南大惊。
数月免。
初，遵为河南太守，而弟级为荆州牧，当之官，俱过长安富人故淮阳王外家左氏饮食作乐。
后司直陈崇闻之，劾奏： 遵兄弟幸得蒙恩超等历位，遵爵列侯，备郡守，级州牧奉使，皆以举直察枉宣扬圣化为职，不正身自慎。
始遵初除，乘藩车入闾巷，过寡妇左阿君置酒歌讴，遵起舞跳梁，顿仆坐上，暮因留宿，为侍婢扶卧。
遵知饮酒饫宴有节，礼不入寡妇之门，而湛酒混肴，乱男女之别，轻辱爵位，羞污印韨，恶不可忍闻。
臣请皆免。
遵既免，归长安，宾客愈盛，饮食自若。
久之，复为九江及河内都尉，凡三为二千石。
而张竦亦至丹阳太守，封淑德侯。
后俱免官，以列侯归长安。
竦居贫，无宾客，时时好事者从之质疑问事，论道经书而已。
而遵昼夜呼号，车骑满门，酒肉相属。
先是，黄门郎扬雄作《酒箴》以讽谏成帝，其文为酒客难法度士，譬之于物，曰： 子犹瓶矣。
translation: 
Chen Sui then resigned and thanked Emperor Xuan, saying: "These things all happened before the pardon was issued in the first year of Yuanping, and they should not be investigated any further."
He was treated so favorably by Emperor Xuan.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, Chen Sui was recruited to serve as Jing Zhaoyin, and later he became Tingwei.
Chen Zun lost his father in his early years, and later became a Jingzhao historian with a man named Zhang Changhao Bosong.
Zhang Song was knowledgeable, knowledgeable, and self-disciplined with integrity and frugality, while Chen Zun was indulgent and unruly. Although the two had different moral conduct, they were very close and friendly to each other. In the last years of Emperor Ai's reign, they were both well-known and became the best among the underachievers.
They both entered the palace again. All the officials in the palace only had thin horses and poor carriages, and never paid attention to their appearance. Only Chen Zun showed off his carriages and horses in gorgeous clothes. Outside his door, there were always carriages and horses meeting each other, which was very grand.
Every day when he went out to drink, he would always come home drunk, often neglecting to deal with official matters.
Xicao punished him according to the old rules. The clerk who served him always went to the official residence to inform Chen Zun: "Chen Qing was punished for something again today."
Chen Zun said: "When it reaches one hundred items, come back and let me know."
According to the old rules, those who were punished a hundred times would be dismissed. Later, when the number of punishments reached 100, west Cao asked the officials to dismiss Chen Zun.
At that time, Grand Situ Ma Gong was a man of great magnanimity. He was tolerant of scholars and valued Chen Zun very much, so he said to Xicao: "This man is a very talented scholar. How can you scold him with small rules?"
He recommended Chen Zun, saying that he could manage the difficult and difficult counties in Sanfu, so he made him the magistrate of Yuyi County.
After a long time, due to disagreements with Fufeng, he resigned and left.
The big thieves Tampeng and Huo Hong in Huaili started a rebellion. Chen Zunzheng was appointed as the school captain. He made great achievements in attacking Tampeng, Huo Hong and others, so he was named Jiaweihou.
He lived in Chang'an City, and all the princes, ministers, and nobles valued him.
All the county officials and heroes who came to the capital came to visit Chen Zun.
Chen Zun liked drinking. Whenever he held a big banquet, when the hall was full of guests, he would often close the door and throw the keys from the guests' cars into the well. Even if there was an emergency, he could not go out.
Once, a provincial governor came to visit Chen Zun on business, and he happened to be drinking heavily. The governor was very embarrassed. When Chen Zun was drunk, he suddenly went in to see Chen Zun's mother, kowtowed to her and told her that he had an appointment with the minister and had business to discuss. Chen Zun's mother asked him to go out through the back door.
Chen Zun probably got drunk from time to time, but his official duties were not delayed.
Chen Zun is more than eight feet tall, has a long head and a big nose, and has a dignified appearance.
After skimming some biographies, I can write prose.
He was fond of writing by nature, and the letters he wrote to others were all treasured by them as an honor.
No one dared to refuse him every request. Wherever he went, the entire upper class envied him for fear of neglecting him.
At this time, there was a man with the same surname as Chen Zun. Whenever he visited someone else's door, he would shout, "Chen Menggong is here."
Wang Mang had always been amazed by Chen Zun's talents, and most of the officials in office praised him, so he made him the governor of Henan County.
Now that Chen Zun had arrived, he sent an envoy to the west and recruited ten clerks who could write letters to write private letters for him to thank his old friends in the capital.
Chen Zun leaned on the coffee table, dictating his thoughts to the clerk, and also reviewing official matters. He soon wrote hundreds of letters. The contents and meanings of the close and distant letters were also different. The people in Henan County were greatly frightened by this.
After a few months, he was dismissed from office.
When Chen Zun was appointed as the governor of Henan County, his younger brother Chen Ji was appointed as the pastor of Jingzhou. On his way to take office, the two brothers passed by the home of a rich man in Chang'an. This rich man was the Zuo family of the late King of Huaiyang. They drank and had fun at his home.
Later, a Sizhi named Chen Chong heard about this and reported to the court: Brother Chen Zun was lucky enough to receive divine grace, transcended his rank, and held successive official positions. Chen Zun's title has reached the rank of lord, his official position has reached the level of county guard, and Chen's rank has also been promoted to prefecture pastor. When ordered to go on missions, they should be responsible for upholding integrity, monitoring evil songs, and promoting the teachings of the Holy King. However, they are not self-cultivation and self-discipline now, and they only do unseemly things.
When Chen Zun first became an official, he actually rode a covered car into Yan Alley and went to the widow Zuo Ajun's house to serve wine and sing. Chen Zun got up and danced wildly, but actually lost his footing and fell down on his seat. He stayed at the widow's house at night and was supported by the maid before going to bed.
Chen Zun knew clearly that etiquette should be followed during drinking and banquets, and according to etiquette, he was not allowed to enter the widow's house, but he still indulged in eating and enjoying, did not care about the different etiquette rules for men and women, insulted the title given by the court, and brought shame to the official seal. This kind of bad reputation cannot be tolerated.
Therefore, it is requested that both of them be removed from office.
After Chen Zun was dismissed from office, he returned to Chang'an. There were more and more guests, and the food and entertainment remained the same as before.
After a long time, Chen Zun served as the captain of Jiujiang and Hanoi. In total, he served as an official three times with a salary of two thousand dan.
Zhang Song also became the governor of Danyang and was given the title of Marquis of Shude.
Later, they were all dismissed from their official positions, and returned to Chang'an with only the titles of princes.
Zhang Song's residence was very simple, with no guests coming and going. There were often good people following him to criticize and ask questions, and they just talked about the Tao Te Ching.
But Chen Zun was shouting day and night, the house was full of chariots and cavalry, and there were continuous banquets and meat feasts.
Previously, Huangmenlang Yangxiong wrote "Wine Admonition" to satirize and admonish the emperor. In the article, he assumed that a drunkard criticized the righteous Dharma minister and used objects as a metaphor for people. The article wrote: You are like a bottle.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
观瓶之居，居井之眉，处高临深，动常近危。
酒醪不入口，臧水满怀，不得左右，牵于纆徽。
一旦■碍，为■所轠，身提黄泉，骨肉为泥。
自用如此，不如鸱夷。
鸱夷滑稽，腹如大壶，尽日盛酒，人复借酤。常为国器，托于属车，出入两宫，经营公家。
由是言之，酒何过乎！
遵大喜之，常谓张竦： 吾与尔犹是矣。
足下讽诵经书，苦身自约，不敢差跌，而我放意自恣，浮湛俗间，官爵功名，不减于子，而差独乐，顾不优邪！
竦曰： 人各有性，长短自裁。
子欲为我亦不能，吾而效子亦败矣。
虽然，学我者易持，效子者难将，吾常道也。
及王莽败，二人俱客于池阳，竦为贼兵所杀。
更始至长安，大臣荐遵为大司马护军，与归德侯刘飒俱使匈奴。
单于欲胁诎遵，遵陈利害，为言曲直，单于大奇之，遣还。
会更始败，遵留朔方，为贼所败，时醉见杀。
原涉字巨先。
祖父武帝时以豪桀自阳翟徙茂陵。
涉父哀帝时为南阳太守。
天下殷富，大郡二千石列官，赋敛送葬皆千万以上，妻子通共受之，以定产业。
时又少行三年丧者。
及涉父死，让还南阳赙送，行丧冢庐三年，由是显名京师。
礼毕，扶风谒请为议曹，衣冠慕之辐辏。
为大司徒史丹举能治剧，为谷口令，时年二十余。
谷口闻其名，不言而治。
translation: 
Look at the bottle placed on the edge of the well. It is high and close to the depth, and it is dangerous to move it.
Not a drop of the wine mash was allowed to be imported, but it was filled with well water and could not be moved around, so it was tied to the well rope.
Once it is lost and smashed into pieces by the well circle, the whole body will be scattered into the underworld, and the bones and flesh will turn into soil.
Seeking trouble like this is worse than a wine-skin.
Because the skin is round and full, can be changed endlessly, and the belly is as big as a pot, it can hold fine wine all day long, and others use it to make drinks. It is often used as a national utensil, and is carried in the emperor's back carriage, going in and out of the two palaces, and conducting public affairs.
From this point of view, what’s wrong with wine?
Chen Zun liked this article very much after reading it, so he said to Zhang Song: You and I are just like what is written in the article. Sample.
You recite poems and books all the time, work hard to restrain yourself, and dare not make any mistakes, but I am willful and indulgent, drifting in the world. My official rank and fame are not inferior to yours, but I can only enjoy happiness. Isn't this better than you!
Zhang Song said: Everyone has their own temperament, and you have to decide what is right or wrong.
It is unrealistic for you to live like me, and it is equally unrealistic for me to live like you. If I blindly imitate you, I will fail.
However, people who learn from me will find it easier to control themselves, while people who learn from you will find it difficult to succeed, so this is the normal way for me!
When Wang Mang failed, both of them stayed in Chiyang, and Zhang Song was killed by bandits.
When Emperor Gengshi arrived in Chang'an, the ministers recommended Chen Zun to be the Great Sima Protector of the Army, and he and Liu Sa, the Marquis of Guide, were sent as envoys to the Huns.
The Shanyu of the Xiongnu forced Chen Zun to surrender to the Xiongnu. Chen Zun explained his interests to him and explained the merits. The Shanyu admired him very much.
Let him return to the Han Dynasty. Just when Gengshi was defeated, Chen Zun had to stay in Shuofang. Later, he was defeated by the bandits. Chen Zun was killed by the bandits while he was drunk.
Yuanshe, named Juxian.
His grandfather migrated from Yangdi County to Maoling as a hero during the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
His father served as the prefect of Nanyang County during the reign of Emperor Moai.
At that time, the world was rich, and the governors of major counties who died in office received more than tens of millions of money from others to help with funeral arrangements. If their families received all the money, they could use it to buy property.
At that time, few people could mourn the deceased for three years.
After Yuan She's father died, Yuan She not only returned the funeral money donated by the people of Nanyang County, but also lived in Yazhong Cottage and mourned his father for three years, so he became famous in the capital.
As soon as the funeral ceremony was over, the envoys inviting him to serve as a council member for the county government arrived like a gust of wind, and scholar-bureaucrats who admired him also gathered from all directions.
Because he was recommended by Situ Shidan and said that he had the ability to handle complex affairs, Yuan She became the magistrate of Gu County. He was only in his twenties at that time.
People in Gu County have long heard of Yuan She's reputation, so there is no need for him to issue orders, and the place is already in order.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
先是，涉季父为茂陵秦氏所杀，涉居谷口半岁所，自劾去官，欲报仇。
谷口豪桀为杀秦氏，亡命岁余，逢赦出。
郡国诸豪及长安、五陵诸为气节者皆归慕之。涉遂倾身与相待，人无贤不肖阗门，在所闾里尽满客。
或讥涉曰： 子本吏二千石之世，结发自修，以行丧推财礼让为名，正复雠取仇，犹不失仁义，何故遂自放纵，为轻侠之徒乎？
涉应曰： 子独不见家人寡妇邪？
始自约敕之时，意乃慕宋伯姬及陈孝妇，不幸一为盗贼所污，遂行淫失，知其非礼，然不能自还。
吾犹此矣！
涉自以为前让南阳赙送，身得其名，而令先人坟墓俭约，非孝也。
乃大治起冢舍，周阁重门。
初，武帝时，京兆尹曹氏葬茂陵，民谓其道为京兆仟，涉慕之，乃买地开道，立表署曰南阳仟，人不肯从，谓之原氏仟。
费用皆仰富人长者，然身衣服车马才具，妻子内困。
专以振施贫穷赴人之急为务。
人尝置酒请涉，涉入里门，客有道涉所知母病避疾在里宅者。涉即往候，叩门。
家哭，涉因入吊，问以丧事。
家无所有，涉曰： 但洁扫除沐浴，待涉。
还至主人，对宾客叹息曰： 人亲卧地不收，涉何心乡此！愿撤去酒食。
宾客争问所当得，涉乃侧席而坐，削牍为疏，具记衣被棺木，下至饭含之物，分付诸客。
诸客奔走市买，至日昳皆会。
translation: 
Earlier, Yuan She's uncle was killed by the Qin family in Maoling. Yuan She stayed in Taniguchi for more than half a year. He was dismissed from office because he tried the case, so he planned to take revenge.
The heroes of Taniguchi killed the Qin family on behalf of Yuan She, and Yuan She fled for more than a year. Only after encountering the amnesty did he reappear.
The heroes of counties and vassal states, as well as the upright righteous men in Chang'an, Wuling and other places all admired him, so Yuan She also treated them wholeheartedly. People with good or bad conduct came to make friends with Yuan She. For a time, the house was full of guests, and even the streets where his home lived were crowded with visitors.
Someone ridiculed Yuan She and said: You are a descendant of the county magistrate. You were able to cultivate yourself when you were young. Later, you became famous for mourning your father for three years and returning your property and being a humble man. Even if you take revenge for revenge, you are still a benevolent and righteous gentleman. Why should you indulge yourself and become such a frivolous and chivalrous person?
Yuan She replied: Have you never seen widows among the people?
When I first restrained myself, I thought of the examples of Song Boji and Chen Xiaofu. Once I encountered misfortune and was raped by thieves, I would become dissolute. Although I knew it was against ethics, I could no longer return to the clean body and white virginity.
That’s how I am!
Yuan She thought that he had gained fame by returning the funeral funds and items sent by the people of Nanyang, but this made his father's grave extremely crude and unfilial.
So he overhauled the tomb. He also built a house next to the tomb and built heavy doors around the attic.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, the Cao family of Jingzhao Yin was buried in Maoling, and the people called his tomb path Jingzhao Qian. Yuan She envied it, so he bought land to open the tomb passage and built a banner, inscribing it as "Nanyang Qian". People refused to follow it, so they called it "Yuanshi Qian".
All these expenses depended on the rich and powerful people to provide for them. However, Yuanshe himself only had the necessary clothing, carriages and horses, and his wife and children at home were still living in poverty.
Yuan She specializes in doing things to relieve the poor and solve people's problems.
Once, someone held a banquet for Yuan She. As soon as Yuan She walked into the inner door, someone among the guests told him that the family whose mother he knew was sick was now living in the inner house due to illness. Yuan She immediately went to visit and knocked on the door.
Hearing the sound of mourning at home, Yuan She went in to express his condolences and asked about the funeral arrangements.
Seeing that there was nothing in his house, he said: Please clean the house, give the deceased a bath, and wait for my return.
Yuan She returned to the host who had arranged the banquet and sighed to the guests: My mother has passed away and is lying on the ground unable to be buried. How can I have the time to enjoy the food and wine?
Please remove the banquet. The guests rushed to ask what they should buy. Yuan She followed the etiquette of mourning the bereaved, sat sideways on the floor, cut the wooden slips and made a shopping list, listing in detail the shrouds, beddings, coffins, and even the burial objects wrapped in the mouth of the deceased, etc., and distributed them to the guests for purchase.
The guests went off to buy things separately, and they didn't all come back to gather again until it was almost west.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
涉亲阅视已，谓主人： 愿受赐矣。
既共饮食，涉独不饱，乃载棺物，从宾客往至丧家，为棺敛劳俫毕葬。
其周急待人如此。
后人有毁涉者曰 奸人之雄也 ，丧家子即时刺杀言者。
宾客多犯法，罪过数上闻。
王莽数收系欲杀，辄复赦出之。
涉惧，求为卿府掾史，欲以避客。
文母太后丧时，守复土校尉。
已为中郎，后免官。
涉欲上冢，不欲会宾客，密独与故人期会。
涉单车驱上茂陵，投暮，入其里宅，因自匿不见人。
遣奴至市买肉，奴乘涉气与屠争言，斫伤屠者，亡。
是时，茂陵守令尹公新视事，涉未谒也，闻之大怒。
知涉名豪，欲以示众厉俗，遣两吏胁守涉。
至日中，奴不出，吏欲便杀涉去。
涉迫窘不知所为。会涉所与期上冢者车数十乘到，皆诸豪也，共说尹公。
尹公不听，诸豪则曰： 原巨先奴犯法不得，使肉袒自缚，箭贯耳，诣廷门谢罪，于君威亦足矣。
尹公许之。
涉如言谢，复服遣去。
初，涉写新丰富人祁太伯为友，太伯同母弟王游公素嫉涉，时为县门下掾，说尹公曰： 君以守令辱原涉如是，一旦真令至，君复单车归为府吏，涉刺客如云，杀人皆不知主名，可为寒心。
涉治冢舍，奢僣逾制，罪恶暴著，主上知之。
今为君计，莫若堕坏涉冢舍，条奏其旧恶，君必得真令。
如此，涉亦不敢怨矣。
translation: 
After Yuan She inspected it personally, he said to the host: Now you can accept the banquet.
Everyone drank and ate together, but Yuan She was not full, so he loaded the coffin and other items in a car, led the guests to the deceased's home, buried the deceased, and advised the guests to wait until the burial was completed before leaving.
This is how Yuan She rushes into things and treats others with sincerity.
Later, someone slandered Yuan She and said that he was a "hero of traitors." The deceased's son immediately went to assassinate the person who said this.
Many of the guests involved had committed crimes, and the court heard of their crimes many times.
Wang Mang arrested and killed these people several times, but he always pardoned them and released them.
Yuan She was very frightened, so he sought to become a subordinate official in the Qing Mansion, hoping to avoid guests.
At the time of the funeral of Queen Mother Wen's mother, Yuan She temporarily served as the Futu Colonel.
Later he became a lieutenant and was soon dismissed.
Yuan She wanted to live in the tomb house. He didn't want to meet the guests and only had a secret date with old friends.
He drove alone to Maoling. When it was getting dark, he entered Li Zhong's house and hid in his house, refusing to see anyone.
One day, Yuan She sent his slave to the market to buy meat. Taking advantage of Yuan She's arrogance, the slave quarreled with the meat seller, chopped the meat seller, and then ran away.
At that time, the acting magistrate of Maoling County, Yin Gong, was newly appointed, but Yuan She did not go to visit him. When Yin Gong found out, he was very angry.
He knew that Yuan She was a famous hero, so he wanted to use this incident to show his majesty and serious conduct. He sent two officers to wait on both sides of Yuan She's house.
At noon, when the servant who bought the meat still didn't come out, the guard wanted to kill Yuan She and left.
Yuan She was in a dilemma and didn't know what to do. It happened that the friends he had arranged to go to the grave with him arrived in dozens of cars. They were all local heroes, so they went to persuade Yin Gong together.
Yin Gong did not listen to the persuasion, so the heroes said: "Yuan Juxian's slave has violated the law and cannot be brought to justice. Then let Yuan Juxian strip himself, put an arrow in his ear, and come to the official gate to apologize. This will be enough to maintain your prestige."
Only then did Duke Yin agree.
So Yuan Si went to apologize as the heroes said, and Yin Gong let him go home with his clothes still on.
At first, Yuan She was friends with Qi Taibo, a wealthy man from Xinfeng, but Taibo's half-brother Wang Yougong had always hated Yuan She. Wang Yougong was working as an official in the county government at this time, so he advised Yin Gong: You humiliated Yuan She just by being an acting county magistrate. Once the official county magistrate took office, you still drove your bicycle back to the county government to work as a government official. There were so many assassins among Yuan She's guests and friends that you didn't know who did the killings. I'm really worried about you.
Yuan Sheng built tombs and houses, was extravagant and exceeded the legal system, and was guilty of obvious crimes. These emperors also knew about it.
Now for your sake, it is better to destroy the tombs and houses built by Yuan She, and then report his past crimes in detail, and you will definitely become an official county magistrate.
In this way, Yuan She no longer dared to hold a grudge.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
尹公如其计，莽果以为真令。
涉由此怨王游公，选宾客，遣长子初从车二十乘劫王游公家。
游公母即祁太伯母也，诸客见之皆拜，传曰 无惊祁夫人 。
遂杀游公父及子，断两头去。
涉性略似郭解，外温仁谦逊，而内隐好杀。
睚眦于尘中，触死者甚多。
王莽末，东方兵起，诸王子弟多荐涉能得士死，可用。
莽乃召见，责以罪恶，赦贳，拜镇戎大尹。
涉至官无几，长安败，郡县诸假号起兵攻杀二千石长吏以应汉。
诸假号素闻涉名，争问原尹何在，拜谒之。
时莽州牧使者依附涉者皆得活。
传送致涉长安，更始西屏将军申徒建请涉与相见，大重之。
故茂陵令尹公坏涉冢舍者为建主簿，涉本不怨也。
涉从建所出，尹公故遮拜涉，谓曰： 易世矣，宜勿复相怨！
涉曰： 尹君，何一鱼肉涉也！
涉用是怒，使客刺杀主簿。
涉欲亡去，申徒建内恨耻之，阳言 吾欲与原巨先共镇三辅，岂以一吏易之哉！
宾客通言，令涉自系狱谢，建许之。
宾客车数十乘共送涉至狱。
建遣兵道徼取涉于车上，送车分散驰，遂斩涉，悬之长安市。
自哀、平间，郡国处处有豪桀，然莫足数。
其名闻州郡者，霸陵杜君敖、池阳韩幼孺、马领绣君宾、西河漕中叔，皆有谦退之风。
王莽居慑，诛锄豪侠，名捕漕中叔，不能得。
translation: 
Yin Gong acted according to his plan, and Wang Mang really appointed Yin Gong as the official county magistrate.
Yuan She resented Wang Yougong because of this, so he selected guests and asked his eldest son Yuanchu to lead twenty people in a car to rob Wang Yougong's home.
Wang Yougong's mother was also the mother of Taibo Qi. When the guests saw her, they all knelt down and worshiped her. Yuan She said: "Mrs. Qi must not be disturbed."
So he killed Wang Yougong and his biological father, cut off their heads, and then left.
Yuan She's temperament is a bit like Guo Xie's. He is gentle, kind and humble on the outside, but he has a murderous heart hidden inside.
There is much resentment in the world, and many people are killed by him for offending him.
In the last years of Wang Mang, there was a rebellion in the east. Many of the prince's disciples recommended Yuan She to Wang Mang, saying that he could win over people's hearts and that people would be willing to work for him and that they could be used.
Wang Mang then summoned Yuan She and scolded him for his crimes, then pardoned him and appointed him Zhenrong Dayin.
Shortly after Yuan She took office, Chang'an was defeated. Some strong men in nearby counties raised troops under the guise of their own names, attacked and killed the county governor, and responded to the Han army.
Those who borrowed the name had long heard of Yuan She's name, and they all rushed to find out where Yuan She lived and went to see him.
At that time, all the state pastors and envoys appointed by Wang Mang who relied on Yuan She also saved their lives.
Yuan She was sent to Chang'an by post. Gengshi Emperor's Xiping general Shen Tujian asked Yuan She to meet him, and he thought highly of Yuan She.
Yin Gong, the former magistrate of Maoling County who once destroyed the house of Yuan Sheng's tomb, is now the chief clerk of Shentu Jian. Yuan Sheben no longer hates Yin Gong.
When he came out of Shen Tujian's government office, Yin Gong deliberately went up to Yuan She to stop him from seeing him, and said to Yuan She: The dynasty has changed. You should not hold any resentment anymore!
Yuan She said: Mr. Yin, why do you treat me like a piece of fish and slaughter me at will?
Yuan She was angered by this and sent his guests to assassinate the chief registrar Yin Gong.
Yuan She planned to escape, but Shen Tujian felt that he had been humiliated and held a grudge against Yuan She. He pretended to say: I want to jointly control the Sanfu area with Yuan Juxian. How could I change my mind just because a petty official died?
The guests informed Yuan She of this and asked him to surrender to prison and apologize to Shen Tujian.
Shen Tujian agreed to do this. So, the guests took dozens of cars to take Yuan Shep to prison.
Shentu Jian sent troops to intercept Yuan Shen on the way and arrested Yuan Shen in the car. The escorting vehicles split up and fled quickly, so he immediately beheaded Yuan Shenwen and his head was hung in Chang'an City.
Since the reign of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, there have been heroes everywhere in the county, but the number cannot be counted.
Among them, those who are famous in prefectures and counties include Du Junao from Baling, Han Youru from Chiyang, Xiu Junbin from Maling, Uncle Caozhong from Xihe, etc. They all have the custom of humility and courtesy.
Wang Mang, the regent, wanted to kill all the heroes and arrest Uncle Caozhong by name, but he was not caught.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
素善强弩将军孙建，莽疑建藏匿，泛以问建。
建曰： 臣名善之，诛臣足以塞责。
莽性果贼，无所容忍，然重建，不竟问，遂不得也。
中叔子少游，复以侠闻于世云。
translation: 
Uncle Caozhong had always been friendly with Sun Jian, the powerful crossbow general. Wang Mang suspected that Sun Jian was hiding him, so he asked Sun Jian if he was hiding.
Sun Jian said, "My lord, I am friendly with Uncle Caozhong. Killing me will be enough to replace him."
Wang Mang was narrow-minded and intolerant, but he valued Sun Jian very much, so he stopped asking questions and finally failed to capture Uncle Caozhong.
Cao Zhongshu's son Cao Shaoyou later became famous as a hero.


