Chunk 0: 
original: 
大将军卫青者，平阳人也。其父郑季，为吏，给事平阳侯家，与侯妾卫媪通，生青。
青同母兄卫长子，而姊卫子夫自平阳公主家得幸天子，故冒姓为卫氏。字仲卿。
长子更字长君。
长君母号为卫媪。
媪长女卫孺，次女少兒，次女卫子夫。
後子夫男弟步、广皆冒卫氏。
青为侯家人，少时归其父，其父使牧羊。
先母之子皆奴畜之，不以为兄弟数。
青尝从入至甘泉居室，有一钳徒相青曰： 贵人也，官至封侯。
青笑曰： 人奴之生，得毋笞骂即足矣，安得封侯事乎！
青壮，为侯家骑，从平阳主。
建元二年春，青姊子夫得入宫幸上。
皇后，堂邑大长公主女也，无子，妒。
大长公主闻卫子夫幸，有身，妒之，乃使人捕青。
青时给事建章，未知名。
大长公主执囚青，欲杀之。
其友骑郎公孙敖与壮士往篡取之，以故得不死。
上闻，乃召青为建章监，侍中，及同母昆弟贵，赏赐数日间累千金。
孺为太仆公孙贺妻。
少兒故与陈掌通，上召贵掌。
公孙敖由此益贵。
子夫为夫人。
青为大中大夫。
元光五年，青为车骑将军，击匈奴，出上谷；太仆公孙贺为轻车将军，出云中；大中大夫公孙敖为骑将军，出代郡；卫尉李广为骁骑将军，出雁门：军各万骑。
青至茏城，斩首虏数百。
translation: 
General Wei Qing was a native of Pingyang County. His father Zheng Ji served as a minor official in the county and served in the family of Pingyang Marquis Cao Shou. He had an affair with Pingyang Marquis's concubine Wei Wei and gave birth to Wei Qing.
Wei Qing's half-brother is called Wei Changzi, and his half-sister is called Wei Zifu. Wei Zifu was favored by Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty in Princess Pingyang's family, so he pretended to be surnamed Wei. Wei Qing, whose given name is Zhongqing.
The eldest son of Wei changed his surname to Changjun.
Changjun's mother is Wei Yu.
Wei's eldest daughter is called Wei Ru, her second daughter is Wei Shaoji, and her third daughter is Wei Zifu.
Later, Wei Zifu's younger brothers Bu and Guang both pretended to be surnamed Wei.
Wei Qing was a servant of the Hou family in Pingyang. When he was a child, he returned to his father Zheng Ji's house, and his father asked him to shepherd sheep.
Zheng Ji's sons from his first marriage all treated him as a slave, not as a brother.
Wei Qing once followed someone to the living room of Ganquan Palace. A prisoner with an iron shackle around his neck came to Wei Qing and said, "You are a noble man. You will be a high official and a marquis in the future!"
Wei Qing smiled and said, "I was born of a slave. I would be satisfied if I didn't get beaten or scolded by others. How could I think of becoming a marquis?"
When Wei Qing grew up, he became a cavalryman of the Pingyang Hou family and often followed Princess Pingyang.
In the spring of the second year of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Wei Qing's sister Wei Zifu entered the palace and was favored by Emperor Wu.
Queen Chen Ajiao is the daughter of Liu Piao, the eldest princess of Tangyi. She has no sons and is jealous.
The eldest princess heard that Wei Zifu was favored by Emperor Wu and was pregnant. She was jealous of her and sent people to arrest Wei Qing.
At that time, Wei Qing was serving in Jianzhang Palace and was not yet famous.
The eldest princess arrested and imprisoned Wei Qing and wanted to kill him.
Wei Qing's friend Qi Lang Gongsun Ao and some strong men snatched him out. For this reason, Wei Qing did not die.
When Emperor Wu heard the news, he summoned Wei Qing and appointed him as the supervisor of Jian Zhang, with the title of Shizhong. Together with his half-brothers, they all received high status, and the emperor's rewards for them accumulated as much as a thousand pieces of gold in a few days.
Wei Ru became the wife of Grand Servant Sun He.
It turned out that Wei Shaoer had an affair with Chen Zhang, so Emperor Wu summoned Chen Zhang and made him a noble person.
As a result, Gongsun Ao became more and more prominent.
Wei Zifu became Emperor Wu's wife.
Wei Qing was promoted to Dazhong doctor.
In the fifth year of Yuanguang, Wei Qing served as the general of cavalry and attacked the Xiongnu, marching out of the fortress from Shanggu; Sun He, the imperial servant, served as the general of light chariots and marched out of the fortress from Yunzhong; Gongsun Ao, the Dazhong doctor, served as the general of cavalry and marched out from Daijun; Wei Wei Li Guang served as the general of heroic cavalry and marched out of the fortress from Yanmen; each army had ten thousand cavalry.
Wei Qing led his troops to Fucheng and killed hundreds of enemies.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
骑将军敖亡七千骑；卫尉李广为虏所得，得脱归：皆当斩，赎为庶人。
贺亦无功。
元朔元年春，卫夫人有男，立为皇后。
其秋，青为车骑将军，出雁门，三万骑击匈奴，斩首虏数千人。
明年，匈奴入杀辽西太守，虏略渔阳二千馀人，败韩将军军。
汉令将军李息击之，出代；令车骑将军青出云中以西至高阙。
遂略河南地，至于陇西，捕首虏数千，畜数十万，走白羊、楼烦王。
遂以河南地为朔方郡。以三千八百户封青为长平侯。
青校尉苏建有功，以千一百户封建为平陵侯。使建筑朔方城。
青校尉张次公有功，封为岸头侯。
天子曰： 匈奴逆天理，乱人伦，暴长虐老，以盗窃为务，行诈诸蛮夷，造谋藉兵，数为边害，故兴师遣将，以征厥罪。
诗不云乎， 薄伐玁狁，至于太原 ， 出车彭彭，城彼朔方 。
今车骑将军青度西河至高阙，获首虏二千三百级，车辎畜产毕收为卤，已封为列侯，遂西定河南地，按榆谿旧塞，绝梓领，梁北河，讨蒲泥，破符离，斩轻锐之卒，捕伏听者三千七十一级，执讯获丑，驱马牛羊百有馀万，全甲兵而还，益封青三千户。
其明年，匈奴入杀代郡太守友，入略雁门千馀人。
其明年，匈奴大入代、定襄、上郡，杀略汉数千人。
其明年，元朔之五年春，汉令车骑将军青将三万骑，出高阙；卫尉苏建为游击将军，左内史李沮为彊弩将军，太仆公孙贺为骑将军，代相李蔡为轻车将军，皆领属车骑将军，俱出朔方；大行李息、岸头侯张次公为将军，出右北平：咸击匈奴。
匈奴右贤王当卫青等兵，以为汉兵不能至此，饮醉。
汉兵夜至，围右贤王，右贤王惊，夜逃，独与其爱妾一人壮骑数百驰，溃围北去。
汉轻骑校尉郭成等逐数百里，不及，得右贤裨王十馀人，众男女万五千馀人，畜数千百万，於是引兵而还。
translation: 
The cavalry general Gongsun Ao lost 7,000 cavalry, and the guard Li Guang was captured by the enemy and escaped. Both Gongsun Ao and Li Guang were sentenced to death, but they both paid ransom and were exempted from death penalty and became civilians.
Gongsun He also had no credit.
In the spring of the first year of Yuanshuo, Wei Zifu gave birth to a boy and was made queen.
In the autumn of this year, Wei Qing became a general of chariots and cavalry. He went out from Yanmen and led 30,000 cavalry to attack the Xiongnu, killing thousands of the enemy.
The next year, the Xiongnu invaded the border, killed the governor of Liaoxi County, captured more than 2,000 people in Yuyang County, and defeated the army of General Han Anguo.
The Han Dynasty ordered General Li Xi to attack the Xiongnu and send troops from Daijun; it also ordered the cavalry general Wei Qing to set out from Yunzhong and go west to attack the Xiongnu as far as Gaoque.
So he captured the Henan area and reached Longxi, captured thousands of enemies, seized 100,000 livestock, and drove away King Aries and King Loufan.
The Han Dynasty changed the Henan area to Shuofang County, and designated 3,800 households to enfeoff Wei Qing as Changping Marquis.
Wei Qing's lieutenant Su Jian had military merits. The imperial court also designated 1,100 households to enfeoff Su Jian as Pingling Marquis and sent Su Jian to build Shuofang City.
Wei Qing's captain Zhang Cigong had military merit and was named An Touhou.
The Emperor said: The Xiongnu rebelled against the laws of nature, violated human relations, violated the elders, abused the elderly, specialized in stealing, defrauded various barbarian countries, planned conspiracies, and relied on their force to repeatedly invade the borders of the Han Dynasty. Therefore, the imperial court mobilized troops and sent generals to combat their crimes.
Doesn't it say in the "Jing": The expedition against Xi'an went as far as Taiyuan, and the chariots and horses galloping out to build the Shuofang City.
Now the chariot general Wei Qing crossed the Xihe area to Gaoque, killed 2,300 enemy troops, captured all their chariots, baggage, and livestock, and was made a prince. He then went west to pacify the Henan area, patrolled the ancient fortresses of Yuxi, crossed Ziling, built a bridge across the Beihe, and launched a crusade. Puni, defeated Fuli, beheaded the enemy's agile and elite soldiers, captured 3,071 enemy scouts, caught the enemy's plot, cut off the enemy's left ear for credit, drove back the enemy's more than one million horses, cattle and sheep, preserved the army, returned to the division in victory, and granted 3,000 additional Wei Qing households.
The next year, the Huns invaded the border, killed Gongyou, the prefect of Daijun, invaded Yanmen, and plundered more than a thousand people.
The next year, the Huns invaded Daijun, Dingxiang, and Shangjun on a large scale, killing and plundering thousands of Han people.
The following year, in the spring of the fifth year of Yuanshuo, the imperial court ordered the cavalry general Wei Qing to lead 30,000 cavalry troops from Gaoque; Wei Wei Su Jian was ordered to serve as a guerrilla general, Li Ju, the internal historian on the left, was a strong crossbow general, Sun He, the imperial servant, was a cavalry general, and Li Cai, the prime minister, was a light chariot general.
They all went to attack the Huns. King Youxian of the Xiongnu was facing the soldiers of Wei Qing and others. He thought that the Han army could not reach here, so he started drinking.
At night, the Han army came and surrounded King Youxian. King Youxian was frightened and ran away all night. He galloped through the encirclement and headed north with one of his concubines and hundreds of strong cavalry.
Guo Cheng, the Qingqi captain of the Han Dynasty, and others chased for hundreds of miles but failed to catch up. The Han army captured more than ten of King Youxian's younger kings, more than 15,000 men and women, and millions of livestock, so Wei Qing led his troops in triumph.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
至塞，天子使使者持大将军印，即军中拜车骑将军青为大将军，诸将皆以兵属大将军，大将军立号而归。
天子曰： 大将军青躬率戎士，师大捷，获匈奴王十有馀人，益封青六千户。
而封青子伉为宜春侯，青子不疑为阴安侯，青子登为发干侯。
青固谢曰： 臣幸得待罪行间，赖陛下神灵，军大捷，皆诸校尉力战之功也。
陛下幸已益封臣青。
臣青子在唡褓中，未有勤劳，上幸列地封为三侯，非臣待罪行间所以劝士力战之意也。
伉等三人何敢受封！
天子曰： 我非忘诸校尉功也，今固且图之。
乃诏御史曰： 护军都尉公孙敖三从大将军击匈奴，常护军，傅校获王，以千五百户封敖为合骑侯。
都尉韩说从大将军出窳浑，至匈奴右贤王庭，为麾下搏战获王，以千三百户封说为龙嵒侯。
骑将军公孙贺从大将军获王，以千三百户封贺为南窌侯。
轻车将军李蔡再从大将军获王，以千六百户封蔡为乐安侯。
校尉李朔，校尉赵不虞，校尉公孙戎奴，各三从大将军获王，以千三百户封朔为涉轵侯，以千三百户封不虞为随成侯，以千三百户封戎奴为从平侯。
将军李沮、李息及校尉豆如意有功，赐爵关内侯，食邑各三百户。
其秋，匈奴入代，杀都尉硃英。
其明年春，大将军青出定襄，合骑侯敖为中将军，太仆贺为左将军，翕侯赵信为前将军，卫尉苏建为右将军，郎中令李广为後将军，右内史李沮为彊弩将军，咸属大将军，斩首数千级而还。
月馀，悉复出定襄击匈奴，斩首虏万馀人。
右将军建、前将军信并军三千馀骑，独逢单于兵，与战一日馀，汉兵且尽。
前将军故胡人，降为翕侯，见急，匈奴诱之，遂将其馀骑可八百，饹降单于。
translation: 
When Wei Qing's army reached the frontier, Emperor Wu sent an envoy with the official seal of the general, and appointed the cavalry general Wei Qing as the general in the army. The other generals all led their troops under the general Wei Qing. The title of general was established, and the troops returned to Beijing.
Emperor Wu said: General Wei Qing personally led the soldiers to attack and kill, and the army won a great victory. He captured more than ten people from the King of the Huns and granted Wei Qing 6,000 households.
He also granted Wei Qing's son Wei and his wife the title of Marquis of Yichun, Wei Qing's son Wei Busuo as the Marquis of Yin'an, and Wei Qing's son Wei Deng as the Marquis of Fagan.
Wei Qing resolutely refused and said: I was lucky enough to be an officer in the army. It was only because of your majesty's divine power that the army achieved great victory. At the same time, this was also the result of the hard work of all the captains.
Your Majesty has given me a favor and granted me a title to my city.
The sons of the minister Wei Qing are still young and have not had the hard work and merits of the war. The emperor showed favor and ceded land to the three of them as marquises. This is not my original intention of being an official in the army to encourage soldiers to fight hard!
How dare Wei, his wife and three other people accept the reward?
The emperor said: I have not forgotten the merits of the captains. Now I have to consider their rewards.
Emperor Wu ordered the censor to say: The captain of the guard army accompanied the general to attack the Huns three times, often supporting the armies, leading a school of troops, capturing the little king of the Huns, and demarcating 1,500 households and making Gongsun Ao the title of Heqihou.
Duwei Han said that he followed the general and sent troops from Yuhun fortress to the palace of King Youxian of the Xiongnu. Under the command of the general, he fought hard and captured the little king of the Xiongnu. He designated 1,300 households in Han said as Longxhou.
The cavalry general Gongsun He followed the general to capture the Hun king, and designated 1,300 households to make Gongsun He the Marquis of Nanxu.
The light chariot general Li Cai accompanied the general to capture the Hun king twice, and designated 1,600 households to make Li Cai the Marquis of Le'an.
School Lieutenant Li Shuo, School Lieutenant Zhao Buyu, and School Lieutenant Gongsun Rongnu each followed the general three times to capture the little king of the Huns. One thousand, three hundred households were designated to grant Li Shuo the title of Shezhe Marquis, one thousand three hundred households were designated to grant Zhao Buyu the title of Suicheng Marquis, and one thousand three hundred households were designated to grant Gongsun Rongnu the title of Congping Marquis.
The generals Li Ju, Li Xi and the captain Dou Ruyi had military merits and were given the title of Marquis of Guannei, and each of them had a settlement of 300 households.
In the autumn of this year, the Xiongnu invaded Daijun and killed the captain Zhu Ying.
In the spring of the next year, General Wei Qing sent troops from Dingxiang. Heqi Hou Gongsun Ao will be the middle general, Grand Servant Sun He will be the left general, Xihou Zhao Xin will be the front general, Weiwei Su Jian will be the right general, Lang Zhongling Li Guang will be the rear general, and left Neishi Li Ju will be the strong crossbow general. They were all subordinate to the general and returned after killing thousands of enemies.
More than a month later, they all sent troops from Dingxiang to attack the Xiongnu, killing more than 10,000 enemies.
The armies of the right general Su Jian and the former general Zhao Xin combined into one army, with a total of more than 3,000 cavalry, met the Xiongnu Chanyu's army alone. They fought with them for more than a day, and the entire Han army was about to be wiped out.
Former general Zhao Xin was originally a Huns. He surrendered to the Han Dynasty and was granted the title of Marquis of Xi. Now seeing that the military situation was critical, the Huns tempted him again, so he led the remaining 800 cavalry and ran to Shan Yu to surrender.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
右将军苏建尽亡其军，独以身得亡去，自归大将军。
大将军问其罪正闳、长史安、议郎周霸等： 建当云何？
霸曰： 自大将军出，未尝斩裨将。
今建弃军，可斩以明将军之威。
闳、安曰： 不然。
兵法 小敌之坚，大敌之禽也 。
今建以数千当单于数万，力战一日馀，士尽，不敢有二心，自归。
自归而斩之，是示後无反意也。不当斩。
大将军曰： 青幸得以肺腑待罪行间，不患无威，而霸说我以明威，甚失臣意。
且使臣职虽当斩将，以臣之尊宠而不敢自擅专诛於境外，而具归天子，天子自裁之，於是以见为人臣不敢专权，不亦可乎？
军吏皆曰 善 。
遂囚建诣行在所。
入塞罢兵。
是岁也，大将军姊子霍去病年十八，幸，为天子侍中。
善骑射，再从大将军，受诏与壮士，为剽姚校尉，与轻勇骑八百直弃大军数百里赴利，斩捕首虏过当。
於是天子曰： 剽姚校尉去病斩首虏二千二十八级，及相国、当户，斩单于大父行籍若侯产，生捕季父罗姑比，再冠军，以千六百户封去病为冠军侯。
上谷太守郝贤四从大将军，捕斩首虏二千馀人，以千一百户封贤为众利侯。
是岁，失两将军军，亡翕侯，军功不多，故大将军不益封。
右将军建至，天子不诛，赦其罪，赎为庶人。
大将军既还，赐千金。
translation: 
The right general Su Jian lost all his troops, fled back alone, and came to the general Wei Qing.
General Wei Qing asked Jun Zhenghong, Chang Shi'an, Yilang Zhouba and others for their opinions on Su Jian's crimes, and said: How to determine Su Jian's crimes?
Zhou Ba said: Ever since the general went on the campaign, he has never killed his deputy.
Now that Su Jian has abandoned the army and returned, he can kill Su Jian to show the majesty of the general.
Hong and An both said: It can't be like this.
The book on the art of war says that when two armies confront each other, the side with fewer troops will be defeated by the side with more troops, even if it fights resolutely.
Now Su Jian led thousands of troops to resist Shan Yu's tens of thousands troops. After fighting for more than a day, all the soldiers died, but he still did not dare to betray the Han Dynasty and returned on his own.
Being killed upon his own return was a warning to the soldiers that if they failed in the future, they would not be able to return to the Han Dynasty. Su Jian should not be killed.
General Wei Qing said: "Wei Qing, I am lucky enough to serve as an official in the army as a relative of the emperor, so I don't worry about losing dignity. However, Zhou Ba advised me to establish personal dignity, which was a great disobedience to the purpose of being a minister."
Moreover, if my authority allows me to kill the guilty general, but because of my respected status, I dare not kill him without permission outside the country, I would rather report the situation to the emperor in detail and let the emperor make his own decision, thereby showing that a minister does not dare to have arbitrary power. Isn't it also okay?
The officers in the army all said: OK!
So Su Jian was imprisoned and sent to the emperor's residence.
Wei Qing led his troops into the border fortress and stopped the conquest of the Xiongnu.
This year, Huo Qubing, the son of General Wei Qing's sister, was eighteen years old. He was favored by Emperor Wu and became the emperor's servant.
Huo Qubing was good at horseback riding and archery. He accompanied the general on two expeditions. The general, on the emperor's order, allocated some brave warriors to him and appointed him as the captain of Gaoyao. He and 800 light and brave cavalry left the army for hundreds of miles, looking for favorable opportunities to attack and kill the enemy. The number of enemy soldiers they killed exceeded their losses.
So the emperor said: Huo Qubing, the lieutenant of the Yao School, killed 2,028 enemies, including the Xiongnu Prime Minister and the household. He killed Shanyu's grandfather's Ji Ruohou Chan, and captured Shanyu's uncle Luo Gubi alive. For his merits, he twice won the first place in the army, and designated 1,600 households to confer Huo Qubing as the champion marquis.
Hao Xian, the prefect of Shanggu, went on four expeditions with the general and captured more than 2,000 enemy soldiers. He designated 1,100 households and made Hao Xian a marquis of public benefit.
This year, the troops of two generals were lost. Xihou Zhao Xin fled and had little military success, so General Wei Qing did not increase his title.
After the right general Su Jian came back, the emperor did not kill him, but pardoned his sins, paid a ransom, and became a commoner.
General Wei Qing returned to the capital, and the emperor rewarded him with a thousand gold coins.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
是时王夫人方幸於上，甯乘说大将军曰： 将军所以功未甚多，身食万户，三子皆为侯者，徒以皇后故也。
今王夫人幸而宗族未富贵，原将军奉所赐千金为王夫人亲寿。
大将军乃以五百金为寿。
天子闻之，问大将军，大将军以实言，上乃拜甯乘为东海都尉。
张骞从大将军，以尝使大夏，留匈奴中久，导军，知善水草处，军得以无饥渴，因前使绝国功，封骞博望侯。
冠军侯去病既侯三岁，元狩二年春，以冠军侯去病为骠骑将军，将万骑出陇西，有功。
天子曰： 骠骑将军率戎士逾乌盭，讨濮，涉狐奴，历五王国，辎重人众慑慴者弗取，冀获单于子。
转战六日，过焉支山千有馀里，合短兵，杀折兰王，斩卢胡王，诛全甲，执浑邪王子及相国、都尉，首虏八千馀级，收休屠祭天金人，益封去病二千户。
其夏，骠骑将军与合骑侯敖俱出北地，异道；博望侯张骞、郎中令李广俱出右北平，异道：皆击匈奴。
郎中令将四千骑先至，博望侯将万骑在後至。
匈奴左贤王将数万骑围郎中令，郎中令与战二日，死者过半，所杀亦过当。
博望侯至，匈奴兵引去。
博望侯坐行留，当斩，赎为庶人。
而骠骑将军出北地，已遂深入，与合骑侯失道，不相得，骠骑将军逾居延至祁连山，捕首虏甚多。
translation: 
At this time, Mrs. Wang was being favored by Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, so Ning Cheng persuaded Wei Qing: "General, the reason why you don't have many military achievements, but you have thousands of households in the city, and your three sons are all named marquis, is just because of Queen Wei."
Now that Mrs. Wang is lucky, but her relatives with the same surname are not rich yet, I hope that the general will take the thousand pieces of gold rewarded by the emperor to celebrate the birthday of Mrs. Wang's parents.
So General Wei Qing used five hundred gold to celebrate the birthday of Mrs. Wang's parents.
When Emperor Wu heard the news, he asked General Wei Qing. General Wei Qing reported the facts to the emperor, who appointed Ning Cheng as the captain of the East China Sea.
Zhang Qian went on an expedition with the general, because he had been on an envoy to Daxia and was detained by the Xiongnu for a long time. This time he served as a guide for the army and was familiar with good places with water and grass, thus saving the army from hunger and thirst. In addition to his achievements in previous missions to distant countries, Zhang Qian was granted the title of Bowang Hou.
The champion Hou Huo Qubing was granted the title of Marquis for three years. In the spring of the second year of Yuanshou, the emperor appointed the champion Hou Huo Qubing as a general of hussars, leading 10,000 cavalry to attack the Xiongnu from Longxi and achieving military merit.
Emperor Wu said: The Hussar General personally led his warriors across the Wuzu Mountains, attacked Tianpu, crossed the Hunu River, and passed through five Xiongnu kingdoms. He did not plunder the property or people of those who feared obedience, but only hoped to capture the son of the Chanyu.
After six days of fighting, they crossed Yanzhi Mountain for more than a thousand miles, fought hand to hand with the enemy, killed King Zhelan, chopped off King Luhu's head, killed the heavily armed enemy soldiers, captured King Hunxie's son, the Xiongnu Prime Minister, and the captain, annihilated more than 8,000 enemies, and captured King Xiutu's golden man offering sacrifices to the sky. Huo Qubing was granted the title of 2,000 households.
In the summer of this year, General Hussar and Hou Gongsun Ao of Heqi both sent troops from the north and marched in separate routes; Bowang Hou Zhang Qian and Lang Zhongling Li Guang both sent troops from Youbeiping and marched in separate routes.
They all went to attack the Huns. Lang Zhongling led 4,000 cavalry to arrive first, and Bowang Hou led 10,000 cavalry to arrive later.
King Zuoxian of the Xiongnu led tens of thousands of cavalry to besiege Lang Zhongling Li Guang. Lang Zhongling fought with the enemy soldiers for two days and lost most of his men. The number of enemies they killed exceeded the number of people they lost.
When Bowang Hou arrived with his troops, the Huns' army had already withdrawn.
Bowang Hou was guilty of staying on the march and delaying the military plane. He was sentenced to death, paid a ransom, and became a civilian.
After General Hussar left the north, he had gone deep into the Xiongnu. Because he and the Cavalry Marquis Gongsun Ao took the wrong route, they were unable to meet him. General Hussar crossed Juyanze and reached the Qilian Mountains, where he captured many enemies.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
天子曰： 骠骑将军逾居延，遂过小月氏，攻祁连山，得酋涂王，以众降者二千五百人，斩首虏三万二百级，获五王，五王母，单于阏氏、王子五十九人，相国、将军、当户、都尉六十三人，师大率减什三，益封去病五千户。
赐校尉从至小月氏爵左庶长。
鹰击司马破奴再从骠骑将军斩濮王，捕稽沮王，千骑将得王、王母各一人，王子以下四十一人，捕虏三千三百三十人，前行捕虏千四百人，以千五百户封破奴为从骠侯。
校尉句王高不识，从骠骑将军捕呼于屠王王子以下十一人，捕虏千七百六十八人，以千一百户封不识为宜冠侯。
校尉仆多有功，封为煇渠侯。
合骑侯敖坐行留不与骠骑会，当斩，赎为庶人。
诸宿将所将士马兵亦不如骠骑，骠骑所将常选，然亦敢深入，常与壮骑先其大军，军亦有天幸，未尝困绝也。
然而诸宿将常坐留落不遇。
由此骠骑日以亲贵，比大将军。
其秋，单于怒浑邪王居西方数为汉所破，亡数万人，以骠骑之兵也。
单于怒，欲召诛浑邪王。
浑邪王与休屠王等谋欲降汉，使人先要边。
是时大行李息将城河上，得浑邪王使，即驰传以闻。
天子闻之，於是恐其以诈降而袭边，乃令骠骑将军将兵往迎之。
骠骑既渡河，与浑邪王众相望。
浑邪王裨将见汉军而多欲不降者，颇遁去。
骠骑乃驰入与浑邪王相见，斩其欲亡者八千人，遂独遣浑邪王乘传先诣行在所，尽将其众渡河，降者数万，号称十万。
既至长安，天子所以赏赐者数十巨万。
封浑邪王万户，为漯阴侯。
封其裨王呼毒尼为下摩侯，鹰庇为煇渠侯，禽犁为河綦侯，大当户铜离为常乐侯。
於是天子嘉骠骑之功曰： 骠骑将军去病率师攻匈奴西域王浑邪，王及厥众萌咸相饹，率以军粮接食，并将控弦万有馀人，诛獟駻，获首虏八千馀级，降异国之王三十二人，战士不离伤，十万之众咸怀集服，仍与之劳，爰及河塞，庶几无患，幸既永绥矣。
以千七百户益封骠骑将军。
translation: 
The emperor said: General Hussar crossed over to Juyanze, passed through Xiaoyue clan, and attacked the Qilian Mountains. He captured King Tu, and led 2,500 people to surrender. He killed 30,200 enemies, and captured five Hun kings, five Hun kings' mothers, wives of Shanyu, and fifty-nine Hun princes. He also captured a total of sixty-three Hun prime ministers, generals, householders, and captains. The Han army was reduced by about three-tenths, and Huo Qubing was granted the title of 5,000 households.
The captains who followed Huo Qubing to the Xiaoyue clan were rewarded with the title of Zuo Shuchang.
Eagle Strike Sima Zhao Ponu went out twice with the Hussar generals, beheaded King Tianpu and captured King Jiqie. The Qianqi generals captured one Xiongnu king and queen mother, and forty-one people below the prince. They captured 3,330 enemy soldiers. The vanguard captured 1,400 enemy soldiers, and designated 1,500 households as Conghuhou.
The school captain Ju Wang Gao Bu Shi followed the Hussars General Huo Qubing and captured 11 people below King Huyu Tu and the prince. He also captured 1,768 enemy soldiers and designated 1,100 households as Yi Guanhou.
Many of the school's servants had military merits and were granted the title of Huiquhou.
Gongsun Ao, the Marquis of Heqi, committed the crime of staying on the march and failing to join the generals of the Hussars. He was sentenced to death, paid a ransom, and became a commoner.
The soldiers, horses and weapons led by the old generals are not as good as those of the hussar generals. The hussar generals lead soldiers who are often selected. However, he dared to fight deep into the enemy's territory and often ran in front of the army with his strong cavalry. His army also had good luck and never encountered great difficulties.
However, the veterans often fell behind due to slow marching and failed to encounter good fighter opportunities.
From then on, the hussar general became closer to the emperor day by day and became more noble, similar to the great general Wei Qing.
In the autumn of this year, Chanyu was very angry because King Hunxie was stationed in the west. He was defeated many times by the Han Dynasty and lost tens of thousands of people, all because of the Hussar General's army.
Chanyu was angry and wanted to summon King Hunxie and kill him.
Therefore, King Hunxie and King Xiutu wanted to surrender to the Han Dynasty, so they first sent people to wait at the border.
At this time, Li Xi led his troops to build a city on the bank of the Yellow River. When he saw King Hunxie's envoy, he immediately ordered the chariot to rush back and report to the emperor.
After hearing the report, the emperor was afraid that King Hunxie would pretend to surrender and attack the border, so he ordered General Hussar to lead his troops to meet King Hunxie and King Xiutu.
General Hussar had already crossed the Yellow River and was looking at each other from a distance with King Hunxie's troops.
When King Hunxie's lieutenants saw the Han army, most of them did not want to surrender, and many of them fled.
General Huo Qubing rode his horse into the enemy camp, met King Hunxie, and killed eight thousand people who wanted to escape. Then he ordered King Hunxie to take a transfer car alone, first to the emperor's residence, and then he led all the troops of King Hunxie to cross the Yellow River. Tens of thousands of people surrendered, and they were said to be one hundred thousand.
After they arrived in Chang'an, the emperor rewarded them with hundreds of thousands of dollars.
It was designated that 10,000 households be granted the title of Marquis of Luo Yin by King Hunxie.
He named his little king Hudu Ni as the Marquis of Xiamo, Yingbi as the Marquis of Huiqu, Qinli as the Marquis of Heqi, and Tongli of Dadanghu as the Marquis of Changle.
So the emperor praised Huo Qubing's contribution and said: Husband General Huo Qubing led the army to attack King Hunxie of the Xiongnu Western Region. King Hunxie, his troops and people all defected to the Han Dynasty and supported the Han army with military supplies. The hussar generals led more than 10,000 of their skilled archers to kill the fierce people who tried to escape, beheaded more than 8,000 people, and made 32 enemy kings surrender to the Han Dynasty. There were no casualties among the Han soldiers, and all the 100,000-strong army returned. The hussar generals went on expeditions one after another and worked tirelessly to almost eliminate border troubles in the Hesse area, and were fortunate to keep peace forever.
One thousand, seven hundred households were designated as hussar generals.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
减陇西、北地、上郡戍卒之半，以宽天下之繇。
居顷之，乃分徙降者边五郡故塞外，而皆在河南，因其故俗，为属国。
其明年，匈奴入右北平、定襄，杀略汉千馀人。
其明年，天子与诸将议曰： 翕侯赵信为单于画计，常以为汉兵不能度幕轻留，今大发士卒，其势必得所欲。
是岁元狩四年也。
元狩四年春，上令大将军青、骠骑将军去病将各五万骑，步兵转者踵军数十万，而敢力战深入之士皆属骠骑。
骠骑始为出定襄，当单于。
捕虏言单于东，乃更令骠骑出代郡，令大将军出定襄。
郎中令为前将军，太仆为左将军，主爵赵食其为右将军，平阳侯襄为後将军，皆属大将军。
兵即度幕，人马凡五万骑，与骠骑等咸击匈奴单于。
赵信为单于谋曰： 汉兵既度幕，人马罢，匈奴可坐收虏耳。
乃悉远北其辎重，皆以精兵待幕北。
而適值大将军军出塞千馀里，见单于兵陈而待，於是大将军令武刚车自环为营，而纵五千骑往当匈奴。
匈奴亦纵可万骑。
会日且入，大风起，沙砾击面，两军不相见，汉益纵左右翼绕单于。
单于视汉兵多，而士马尚彊，战而匈奴不利，薄莫，单于遂乘六，壮骑可数百，直冒汉围西北驰去。
时已昏，汉匈奴相纷挐，杀伤大当。
汉军左校捕虏言单于未昏而去，汉军因发轻骑夜追之，大将军军因随其後。
匈奴兵亦散走。
迟明，行二百馀里，不得单于，颇捕斩首虏万馀级，遂至窴颜山赵信城，得匈奴积粟食军。
军留一日而还，悉烧其城馀粟以归。
translation: 
Therefore, the number of garrison troops in Longxi, Beidi, and Shangjun was reduced by half, so as to ease the burden of corvee on the people of the country.
Soon after, the imperial court moved the surrendered Huns to the five border counties outside the original border fortresses, but they were all in the Henan area, and according to their original customs, they were treated as vassal states of the Han Dynasty.
The next year, the Xiongnu invaded Youbeiping and Dingxiang, killing and plundering more than a thousand people from the Han Dynasty.
In the second year, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty discussed with the generals and said: Xihou Zhao Xin advises the Xiongnu Chanyu. He often thinks that the Han army cannot cross the desert and stay there easily. Now sending a large army to attack will surely realize our wish.
This year is the fourth year of Yuanshou.
In the spring of the fourth year of Yuanshou, Emperor Wu ordered General Wei Qing and Hussar General Huo Qubing to lead 50,000 cavalry each, followed by hundreds of thousands of infantry and people transporting supplies. Those soldiers who dared to fight hard and go deep were all subordinate to the Hussar Generals.
The hussar general began to send troops from Dingxiang to meet Shanyu.
The Huns captured later said that the Chanyu was heading east, so he ordered General Hussar to send troops from Daijun and General Wei Qing to send troops from Dingxiang.
The doctor ordered Li Guang to be the front general, Grand Servant Sun He to be the left general, Lord Commander Zhao Shiqi to be the right general, and Pingyang Marquis Cao Xiang to be the rear general. They were all subordinate to the general.
The army immediately crossed the desert, with a total of 50,000 cavalry including men and horses, and the hussar generals attacked the Xiongnu Chanyu.
Zhao Xin advised Shanyu and said: The Han army has crossed the desert, and the men and horses are tired. The Xiongnu can sit back and collect the Han prisoners.
So they transported all their baggage to the far north and arranged all their elite troops north of the desert to wait for the Han army.
When General Wei Qing's army marched more than a thousand miles outside the Great Wall, he saw Shan Yu's army waiting there in formation, so the general ordered the Wugang chariots to form a circular camp, and ordered five thousand cavalry to gallop to resist the Huns.
The Huns also came galloping with about 10,000 cavalry.
It happened that the sun was about to set, a strong wind blew, and sand and stones hit people's faces. The two armies could not see each other. The Han army ordered the left and right wings to gallop forward to outflank Shan Yu.
Chanyu saw that the Han Dynasty had many troops, and the warriors and horses were very powerful. If they fought, it would be detrimental to the Xiongnu. Therefore, in the evening, Chanyu rode a cart pulled by six mules, and together with about several hundred strong cavalry, broke through the encirclement of the Han army and galloped northwest.
At this time, it was already dusk, and the Han army and the Huns were fighting each other, killing roughly the same number of people.
Lieutenant Zuo of the Han army captured the Xiongnu prisoners and said that Shan Yu had left before dark, so the Han army sent light cavalry to pursue them all night, followed by the general's army.
The Xiongnu soldiers fled in all directions.
By daybreak, the Han army had traveled more than 200 miles without catching up with the Shanyu, but captured and killed more than 10,000 enemy soldiers. Then they arrived at Zhao Xin City in Taoyan Mountain and obtained the grain stored by the Xiongnu for the army.
The Han army stayed for a day and then returned, burning all the remaining food in the city.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
大将军之与单于会也，而前将军广、右将军食其军别从东道，或失道，後击单于。
大将军引还过幕南，乃得前将军、右将军。
大将军欲使使归报，令长史簿责前将军广，广自杀。
右将军至，下吏，赎为庶人。
大将军军入塞，凡斩捕首虏万九千级。
是时匈奴众失单于十馀日，右谷蠡王闻之，自立为单于。
单于後得其众，右王乃去单于之号。
骠骑将军亦将五万骑，车重与大将军军等，而无裨将。
悉以李敢等为大校，当裨将，出代、右北平千馀里，直左方兵，所斩捕功已多大将军。
军既还，天子曰： 骠骑将军去病率师，躬将所获荤粥之士，约轻赍，绝大幕，涉获章渠，以诛比车耆，转击左大将，斩获旗鼓，历涉离侯。
济弓闾，获屯头王、韩王等三人，将军、相国、当户、都尉八十三人，封狼居胥山，禅於姑衍，登临翰海。
执卤获丑七万有四百四十三级，师率减什三，取食於敌，逴行殊远而粮不绝，以五千八百户益封骠骑将军。
右北平太守路博德属骠骑将军，会与城，不失期，从至檮余山，斩首捕虏二千七百级，以千六百户封博德为符离侯。
北地都尉邢山从骠骑将军获王，以千二百户封山为义阳侯。
故归义因淳王复陆支、楼专王伊即靬皆从骠骑将军有功，以千三百户封复陆支为壮侯，以千八百户封伊即靬为众利侯。
从骠侯破奴、昌武侯安稽从骠骑有功，益封各三百户。
校尉敢得旗鼓，为关内侯，食邑二百户。
校尉自为爵大庶长。
translation: 
When the general Wei Qing was fighting Shanyu, the troops of former general Li Guang and right general Zhao Shiqi marched from the east road. Because they lost their way, they were unable to attack Shanyu with Wei Qing as scheduled.
It was not until General Wei Qing led his troops back to the south of the desert that he met the former general and the right general.
The general wanted to send an envoy back to Beijing to report to the emperor, so he ordered the chief historian to interrogate former general Li Guang according to the charges listed in the document. Li Guang committed suicide.
The right general returned to the capital and was handed over to the judge. Zhao Shiqi paid the ransom and became a commoner.
General Wei Qing entered the border fortress and captured a total of 19,000 enemy soldiers.
At this time, the Xiongnu tribe had been without their Chanyu for more than ten days. When King Yougu Li heard the news, he became the Chanyu himself.
Later, the Chanyu reunited with his tribe, and King Youguli removed the name of the self-reliant Chanyu.
The hussar general also led 50,000 cavalry and carried the same military supplies as the general Wei Qing, but he had no lieutenants.
He appointed Li Gan and others as senior colonels and deputy generals, and sent troops from Daijun and Youbeiping for more than a thousand miles. When they met the army of King Xian of Zuo, their achievements in capturing enemy troops far exceeded that of General Wei Qing.
When all the troops returned from the expedition, Emperor Wu said: General Huo Qubing led the army to the expedition, and personally led the captured Xiongnu soldiers, carrying a small amount of military supplies, across the desert, crossed the river to capture the Shanyu's close minister Zhangqu, killed the little Xiongnu king Bicheqi, and then attacked the Xiongnu general Zuo, beheaded the enemy general, and seized his flag and war drum.
After crossing Lihou Mountain and crossing the Gonglu River, they captured three Xiongnu soldiers, including the King of Tuntou and the King of Han, as well as eighty-three people including generals, prime ministers, danghu, and captains. Then they worshiped heaven at Langjuxu Mountain, worshiped earth at Guyan Mountain, and climbed high mountains to look at the desert.
A total of 70,443 prisoners were captured and the enemy killed, and the Han army lost about three-tenths. They obtained food from their enemies, so they could travel to extremely distant places without running out of food. It was designated that 5,800 households were granted the title of General Huo Qubing.
Lu Bode, the right governor of Beiping, was subordinate to the Hussar General. He met with the Hussar General in Yucheng. He did not miss the date and followed the Hussar General to Yushan Mountain. He captured and killed 2,700 Xiongnu people and designated 1,600 households as Fulihou.
Xingshan, the captain of the Northern Territory, followed General Hussar to capture the little king of the Huns, and assigned 1,200 households to Xingshan as the Marquis of Yiyang.
The Huns who had surrendered to the Han Dynasty in the past were designated as Zhuanghou for 1,300 households and 1,800 households for restoration of Luzhi as Zhuanghou because King Chun restored the Luzhi and King Yijiquan of Louzhuan both followed the Hussar generals in attacking the Xiongnu.
Zhao Ponu, the Marquis of Piao, and Zhao Anji, the Marquis of Changwu, both followed General Hussar and made great achievements in defeating the Xiongnu, and each gained 300 additional households.
Lieutenant Li Gan captured the enemy's flags and drums, and was granted the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a grant of food to 200 households.
Xu Ziwei, the school captain, was awarded the title of Grand Concubine.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
军吏卒为官，赏赐甚多。
而大将军不得益封，军吏卒皆无封侯者。
两军之出塞，塞阅官及私马凡十四万匹，而复入塞者不满三万匹。
乃益置大司马位，大将军、骠骑将军皆为大司马。
定令，令骠骑将军秩禄与大将军等。
自是之後，大将军青日退，而骠骑日益贵。
举大将军故人门下多去事骠骑，辄得官爵，唯任安不肯。
骠骑将军为人少言不泄，有气敢任。
天子尝欲教之孙吴兵法，对曰： 顾方略何如耳，不至学古兵法。
天子为治第，令骠骑视之，对曰： 匈奴未灭，无以家为也。
由此上益重爱之。
然少而侍中，贵，不省士。
其从军，天子为遣太官赍数十乘，既还，重车馀弃粱肉，而士有饥者。
其在塞外，卒乏粮，或不能自振，而骠骑尚穿域蹋鞠。
事多此类。
大将军为人仁善退让，以和柔自媚於上，然天下未有称也。
骠骑将军自四年军後三年，元狩六年而卒。
天子悼之，发属国玄甲军，陈自长安至茂陵，为冢象祁连山。
谥之，并武与广地曰景桓侯。
子嬗代侯。
嬗少，字子侯，上爱之，幸其壮而将之。
居六岁，元封元年，嬗卒，谥哀侯。
无子，绝，国除。
自骠骑将军死後，大将军长子宜春侯伉坐法失侯。
後五岁，伉弟二人，阴安侯不疑及发干侯登皆坐酎金失侯。
失侯後二岁，冠军侯国除。
translation: 
In addition, many of the petty officials and soldiers under the Hussars General Huo Qubing served as officials and received rewards.
However, the general Wei Qing failed to get the title, and none of the officials and soldiers in the army were granted the title of marquis.
When the two armies led by Wei Qing and Huo Qubing left the fortress, they had a military parade at the frontier fortress. At that time, there were 140,000 government and private horses. However, when they returned to the fortress, there were less than 30,000 horses left.
So the imperial court added the official position of Grand Sima, and both the General and the Hussars became Grand Sima.
And a decree was made to make the rank and salary of the hussar general equal to that of the general.
From then on, the power of General Wei Qing declined day by day, while the Hussars General became more powerful day by day.
Most of the general's old friends and retainers left him and went to serve the hussar generals. These people often received titles for this, but Ren An was the only one who refused to do so.
The hussar general is a man of few words, silent, courageous and courageous.
Emperor Wu once wanted to teach Sun Tzu and Wu Qi the art of war. He replied: In war, it only depends on the policy and strategy. There is no need to learn ancient war art.
Emperor Wu built a mansion for him and asked General Hussar to take a look. He replied: The Huns have not been eliminated yet, so they have no intention of considering private matters.
From then on, Emperor Wu valued and favored Hussar General Huo Qubing more.
However, Huo Qubing had been serving the emperor in the palace since he was a boy, receiving dignitaries, but he did not know how to show sympathy to the soldiers.
When he went to war, the emperor sent his eunuchs to give him dozens of carts of food. When he came back, there was a lot of leftover rice and meat thrown away on the carts, and some of his soldiers were starving.
When he was fighting outside the wall, the soldiers were short of food, and some were so hungry that they could not stand up, while the hussar generals were still drawing pitches and playing football games.
Most of what he does is like this.
General Wei Qing was kind-hearted and had a spirit of compromise. He pleased the emperor with his tolerance and gentleness, but no one in the world praised him.
General Hussar passed away three years after his attack on the Xiongnu in the fourth year of Yuanshou, that is, in the sixth year of Yuanshou.
Emperor Wu was very sad about his death, and dispatched the armored troops from the five border counties to form a formation from Chang'an to Maoling, so that the outside of the tomb built by Huo Qubing would look like praying for the mountains.
He was given a posthumous title, combining the two principles of bravery and territorial expansion, and called him Marquis Jinghuan.
Huo Qubing's son Yan succeeded the title of Champion Marquis.
Huo Shen was young and named Zihou. The emperor liked him and hoped to appoint him as a general when he grew up.
Six years later, in the first year of Yuanfeng, Huo Huan died, and the emperor gave him the posthumous title of Aihou.
He had no sons, so his descendants were cut off and the feudal state was abolished.
Since the death of General Hussar, the general's eldest son, the Houwei couple of Yichun, lost their marquis title for breaking the law.
Five years later, the two younger brothers of the Wei couple, the Marquis of Yin'an Wei Buyi and the Marquis of Fagan Weideng, both lost their marquis titles because they were guilty of insufficient gold and insufficient weight.
Two years after losing the marquis, the feudal state of the champion marquis was abolished.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
其後四年，大将军青卒，谥为烈侯。
子伉代为长平侯。
自大将军围单于之後，十四年而卒。竟不复击匈奴者，以汉马少，而方南诛两越，东伐朝鲜，击羌、西南夷，以故久不伐胡。
大将军以其得尚平阳长公主故，长平侯伉代侯。
六岁，坐法失侯。
左方两大将军及诸裨将名：
最大将军青，凡七出击匈奴，斩捕首虏五万馀级。
一与单于战，收河南地，遂置朔方郡，再益封，凡万一千八百户。
封三子为侯，侯千三百户。
并之，万五千七百户。
其校尉裨将以从大将军侯者九人。其裨将及校尉已为将者十四人。
为裨将者曰李广，自有传。
无传者曰：
将军公孙贺。
贺，义渠人，其先胡种。
贺父浑邪，景帝时为平曲侯，坐法失侯。
贺，武帝为太子时舍人。
武帝立八岁，以太仆为轻车将军，军马邑。
後四岁，以轻车将军出云中。
後五岁，以骑将军从大将军有功，封为南窌侯。
後一岁，以左将军再从大将军出定襄，无功。
後四岁，以坐酎金失侯。
後八岁，以浮沮将军出五原二千馀里，无功。
後八岁，以太仆为丞相，封葛绎侯。
贺七为将军，出击匈奴无大功，而再侯，为丞相。
坐子敬声与阳石公主奸，为巫蛊，族灭，无後。
将军李息，郁郅人。
事景帝。至武帝立八岁，为材官将军，军马邑；後六岁，为将军，出代；後三岁，为将军，从大将军出朔方：皆无功。
凡三为将军，其後常为大行。
将军公孙敖，义渠人。
translation: 
Four years later, General Wei Qing died, and the imperial court gave him the posthumous title Liehou.
Wei Qing's son Wei Qian took over the title and became Marquis of Changping.
Fourteen years passed since the general besieged Shanyu and he died. The reason why he did not attack the Xiongnu again during this period was because the Han Dynasty had few horses and was in the process of conquering East Vietnam and South Vietnam in the south, Korea in the east, and attacking the Qiang and Southwest Yi. Therefore, there was no attack on the Xiongnu for a long time.
Because General Wei Qing married Princess Pingyang, the Marquis of Changping and his wife could succeed the Marquis.
But six years later, he broke the law and lost the marquis.
The following is the list of the two generals and their lieutenants:
In total, General Wei Qing attacked the Xiongnu seven times and captured more than 50,000 enemy soldiers.
He fought with Chanyu once and regained the Henan area, so he established Shuofang County and enfeoffed it twice, granting a total of 11,800 households.
His three sons were all granted the title of marquis, and each of them was granted the title of 1,300 households.
Combined, the number of households in the Wei family that were granted a title was 15,700.
A total of nine of Wei Qing's lieutenants and lieutenants were granted the title of marquis for their meritorious services following Wei Qing, and a total of fourteen of his lieutenants and lieutenants had become generals.
One of the lieutenants was Li Guang, who has his own biography.
Others that have not been passed on include:
General Gongsun He.
He is from Yiqu, and his ancestors are Huns.
Gongsun He's father Qingxie was granted the title of Marquis of Pingqu during the reign of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, but lost the title for breaking the law.
Gongsun He served as a minister when Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty was the prince.
In the eighth year after Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, Gongsun He became a general of Qingchao as a servant and garrisoned in Mayi.
Four years later, Gongsun He set out from the clouds as a light chariot general to attack the Xiongnu.
Five years later, Gongsun He served as a cavalry general and followed the general to defeat the Huns, and was granted the title of Marquis of Nanxu.
A year later, Gongsun He, as General Zuo, sent troops from Dingxiang to attack the Xiongnu twice with the general, but without success.
Four years later, he lost the Marquis because he committed the crime of insufficient gold and insufficient weight.
Eight years later, as General Fuju, he sent troops from Wuyuan and went on an expedition of more than 2,000 miles to defeat the Xiongnu, but with no success.
Eight years later, he became prime minister as a servant and was granted the title of Marquis Ge Yi.
Gongsun He served as a general seven times, but failed to achieve great success in attacking the Xiongnu. He was made a prince twice and became a prime minister.
Later, because his son Gongsun Jingsheng had an affair with Princess Yangshi and engaged in witchcraft, he was exterminated and left no descendants.
General Li Xi is from Yuzhi.
He once served Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, and when Emperor Wu of the Han came to the throne for eight years, he became a general officer and garrisoned in Mayi. Six years later, he became a general and sent troops from Daijun to fight against the Huns. Three years later, Li Xi became a general and followed the general to send troops from Shuofang to attack the Huns.
No credit. Li Xi served as a general three times in total, and later he often held senior positions.
General Gongsun Ao was from Yiqu.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
以郎事武帝。
武帝立十二岁，为骑将军，出代，亡卒七千人，当斩，赎为庶人。
後五岁，以校尉从大将军有功，封为合骑侯。
後一岁，以中将军从大将军，再出定襄，无功。
後二岁，以将军出北地，後骠骑期，当斩，赎为庶人。
後二岁，以校尉从大将军，无功。
後十四岁，以因杅将军筑受降城。
七岁，复以因杅将军再出击匈奴，至余吾，亡士卒多，下吏，当斩，诈死，亡居民间五六岁。
後发觉，复系。
坐妻为巫蛊，族。
凡四为将军，出击匈奴，一侯。
将军李沮，云中人。事景帝。
武帝立十七岁，以左内史为彊弩将军。
後一岁，复为彊弩将军。
将军李蔡，成纪人也。事孝文帝、景帝、武帝。
以轻车将军从大将军有功，封为乐安侯。
已为丞相，坐法死。
将军张次公，河东人。以校尉从卫将军青有功，封为岸头侯。
其後太后崩，为将军，军北军。
後一岁，为将军，从大将军，再为将军，坐法失侯。
次公父隆，轻车武射也。
以善射，景帝幸近之也。
将军苏建，杜陵人。以校尉从卫将军青，有功，为平陵侯，以将军筑朔方。
後四岁，为游击将军，从大将军出朔方。
後一岁，以右将军再从大将军出定襄，亡翕侯，失军，当斩，赎为庶人。
其後为代郡太守，卒，冢在大犹乡。
将军赵信，以匈奴相国降，为翕侯。
translation: 
Initially, he served Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty as a Langguan.
In the twelfth year after Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he became a cavalry general. He sent troops from Dai County to fight against the Xiongnu. He lost 7,000 soldiers and was sentenced to death. He paid a ransom and became a commoner.
Five years later, as a school captain, he followed the general in fighting the Huns and was awarded the title of Heqihou.
A year later, as a lieutenant general, he sent troops from Dingxiang to attack the Huns twice with the general, but without any credit.
Two years later, he sent troops from the north as a general, delayed the time agreed with the hussar general, was sentenced to death, paid a ransom, and became a civilian.
Two years later, as a captain, he followed the general to fight against the Huns, but had no military exploits.
Fourteen years later, as General Injo, he was responsible for the construction of the surrendered city.
Seven years later, as General Yinju, he sent troops to fight against the Huns again and marched to Yuwu. Because he lost many soldiers, he was handed over to the judge and sentenced to death. However, he pretended to be dead and fled to the people for five or six years.
Later, the incident was discovered and he was arrested.
Because of his wife's witchcraft incident, his entire family was killed.
He served as a general four times, attacked the Huns, and was made a marquis once.
General Li Ju was from Yunzhong and served Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty.
When Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty ascended the throne for seventeen years, he became a strong crossbow general as Zuo Neishi.
A year later, he became a strong crossbow general.
General Li Cai was a native of Chengji and served Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
As a light chariot general, he followed the general to defeat the Huns and was named the Marquis of Le'an.
Later he became prime minister and was killed for breaking the law.
General Zhang Cigong was from Heche. He served as a school captain and served General Wei Qing in fighting against the Xiongnu, and he was granted the title of Marquis of Antou.
Later, the Queen Mother died and he became a general and stationed at the headquarters of the Northern Army.
A year later, he became a general and followed General Wei Qing to fight against the Huns. He became a general twice and lost his title as a marquis for breaking the law.
Zhang Cigong's father, Zhang Long, was a brave archer who drove a light chariot.
Because he was good at archery, Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty liked and got close to him.
General Su Jian was from Duling. As a lieutenant, he followed General Wei Qing to fight against the Huns. Because of his military exploits, he was named Pinglinghou, and as a general he was responsible for the construction of Shuofang City.
Four years later, he became a guerrilla general and followed the general Wei Qing to send troops from Shuofang to attack the Xiongnu.
A year later, as the right general, he again sent troops from Dingxiang to attack the Huns with the general. As a result, the Marquis of Xi defected to the Huns, and the army suffered losses. He was sentenced to death, paid the ransom, and became a commoner.
After that, he became the governor of Daijun. After his death, his tomb was in Dayu Township.
General Zhao Xin surrendered to the Han Dynasty as the Xiongnu Prime Minister and became the Marquis of Xi.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
武帝立十七岁，为前将军，与单于战，败，降匈奴。
将军张骞，以使通大夏，还，为校尉。
从大将军有功，封为博望侯。
後三岁，为将军，出右北平，失期，当斩，赎为庶人。
其後使通乌孙，为大行而卒，冢在汉中。
将军赵食其，祋祤人也。
武帝立二十二岁，以主爵为右将军，从大将军出定襄，迷失道，当斩，赎为庶人。
将军曹襄，以平阳侯为後将军，从大将军出定襄。
襄，曹参孙也。
将军韩说，弓高侯庶孙也。
以校尉从大将军有功，为龙嵒侯，坐酎金失侯。
元鼎六年，以待诏为横海将军，击东越有功，为按道侯。
以太初三年为游击将军，屯於五原外列城。
为光禄勋，掘蛊太子宫，卫太子杀之。
将军郭昌，云中人也。
以校尉从大将军。
元封四年，以太中大夫为拔胡将军，屯朔方。
还击昆明，毋功，夺印。
将军荀彘，太原广武人。
以御见，侍中，为校尉，数从大将军。
以元封三年为左将军击朝鲜，毋功。
以捕楼船将军坐法死。
最骠骑将军去病，凡六出击匈奴，其四出以将军，斩捕首虏十一万馀级。
及浑邪王以众降数万，遂开河西酒泉之地，西方益少胡寇。
四益封，凡万五千一百户。
其校吏有功为侯者凡六人，而後为将军二人。
将军路博德，平州人。
以右北平太守从骠骑将军有功，为符离侯。
骠骑死後，博德以卫尉为伏波将军，伐破南越，益封。
其後坐法失侯。
为彊弩都尉，屯居延，卒。
将军赵破奴，故九原人。尝亡入匈奴，已而归汉，为骠骑将军司马。
出北地时有功，封为从骠侯。
坐酎金失侯。後一岁，为匈河将军，攻胡至匈河水，无功。
後二岁，击虏楼兰王，复封为浞野侯。
後六岁，为浚稽将军，将二万骑击匈奴左贤王，左贤王与战，兵八万骑围破奴，破奴生为虏所得，遂没其军。
居匈奴中十岁，复与其太子安国亡入汉。
後坐巫蛊，族。
translation: 
Seventeen years after Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, Zhao Xin became a former general and fought against the Xiongnu Chanyu. After the failure, he surrendered to the Xiongnu.
General Zhang Qian visited Daxia as an envoy and became a captain after returning.
He served with General Wei Qing in attacking the Xiongnu and was named Bowang Hou.
Three years later, he became a general and attacked the Xiongnu from Youbeiping. Because he missed the agreed military term, he was sentenced to death. He paid the ransom and became a commoner.
After that, he served as an envoy to Wusun, and later became a great minister, and then died. His grave is in Hanzhong.
General Zhao Shiqi was from Qiyi.
In the 22nd year after Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, he became the right general as the Lord Commander, and followed the general Wei Qing to send troops from Dingxiang to fight the Xiongnu. Because he got lost and delayed the military term, he was sentenced to death. He paid the atonement and became a civilian.
General Cao Xiang became the rear general as Marquis of Pingyang, and followed General Wei Qing to send troops from Dingxiang to attack the Huns.
Cao Xiang is the grandson of Cao Shen.
General Han said that he was the concubine grandson of Gong Gaohou Han Daidang.
As a school lieutenant, he followed General Wei Qing to defeat the Xiongnu and was granted the title of Marquis of Longji. Later, he lost the title of Marquis because he committed the crime of not having enough gold as an aide.
In the sixth year of Yuanding, Han Yue became General Henghai in the capacity of waiting for an imperial edict. He led troops to attack East Vietnam and was awarded the title of Jingdaohou.
In the third year of Taichu, he became a guerrilla general and garrisoned some castles outside Wuyuan.
Later, he became Guang Luxun and was killed by Prince Wei because he went to the palace to dig up evidence of witchcraft.
General Guo Chang was from Yunzhong.
As a school captain, he followed General Wei Qing to fight against the Huns.
In the fourth year of Yuanfeng's reign, he became General Bahu as a Taizhong doctor and garrisoned Shuofang.
After returning, he led troops to attack Kunming, but he had no merit and was stripped of his official seal.
General Xun Shen was from Guangwu, Taiyuan County.
He applied for an audience with the emperor because of his ability in driving, and was appointed as a servant and a school captain. He accompanied the general Wei Qing to attack the Huns many times.
In the third year of Yuanfeng's reign, he became General Zuo and led troops to attack North Korea, but he had no credit.
Because Yang Pu, the captain of the ship arresting building, committed a crime, he was executed.
In total, Hussar General Huo Qubing made six sorties against the Huns, four of which were as generals, and killed more than 110,000 Huns.
After King Hunxie led millions of people to surrender, he opened up places such as Hexi and Jiuquan, which reduced the Huns' intrusive activities in the western region.
He was granted four titles and had a total of 15,100 households.
A total of six of his lieutenants were made marquises for their meritorious service, and two of them later became generals.
General Lu Bode was from Pingzhou.
As the governor of Youbeiping, he followed the Hussars general to defeat the Xiongnu and was granted the title of Marquis of Fuli.
After Hussar General Huo Qubing died, Lu Bode became General Fubo as a guard, crusaded and defeated South Vietnam, and was conferred a title by the court.
After that, he lost the marquis for breaking the law.
Later, he became the captain of Qiannu and stationed in Juyan until his death.
General Zhao Ponu was originally from Jiuyuan. He once fled to the Xiongnu, and later returned to the Han Dynasty and became the Sima of Huo Qubing, the general of the Hussars.
He led troops to attack the Huns from the north. He often made meritorious deeds and was named Cong Piaohou.
Later, he committed the crime of insufficient gold and insufficient weight and lost the marquis. A year later, he became the general of the Xionghe River and attacked the Huns to the water of the Xionghe River without any merit.
Two years later, he attacked and captured King Loulan, and was named the Marquis of Zunye.
Six years later, he became General Junji and led 20,000 cavalry to attack King Zuoxian of the Xiongnu. King Zuoxian fought with him and besieged Zhao Ponu with 80,000 cavalry. Zhao Ponu was captured alive by the enemy and all his troops were destroyed.
He lived among the Xiongnu for ten years, and then fled back to the Han Dynasty with his eldest son Anguo.
Later, he was exterminated because of the crime of witchcraft.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
自卫氏兴，大将军青首封，其後枝属为五侯。
凡二十四岁而五侯尽夺，卫氏无为侯者。
太史公曰：苏建语余曰： 吾尝责大将军至尊重，而天下之贤大夫毋称焉，原将军观古名将所招选择贤者，勉之哉。
大将军谢曰： 自魏其、武安之厚宾客，天子常切齿。
彼亲附士大夫，招贤绌不肖者，人主之柄也。
人臣奉法遵职而已，何与招士！  骠骑亦放此意，其为将如此。
translation: 
Since the rise of the Wei family, General Wei Qing was the first to be granted the title of marquis, and later five of his descendants were granted the title of marquis.
It took a total of twenty-four years, but all five marquises were deprived of their title, and no one in the Wei family was granted the title of marquis again.
Tai Shigong said: Su Jian once said to me: I once blamed the general Wei Qing for being extremely noble, but the wise men and officials in the country did not praise him. I hope the general can follow the example of those famous generals in ancient times who recruited wise men, and work hard.
The general refused and said: Ever since Dou Ying, the Marquis of Wei Qi, and Tian Fan, the Marquis of Wu'an, treated their guests favorably, the emperor often gnashed his teeth and hated them.
It is the king's authority to get close to and appease the scholar-bureaucrats, to recruit talented people, and to abolish the unworthy ones.
As a minister, you only need to abide by the laws and do your job well. Why should you participate in the selection of wise men?  The hussar general Huo Qubing also followed this idea, and this is what they did when they were generals.


