Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 5, 14]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
是时既灭两粤，粤人勇之乃言： 粤人俗鬼，而其祠皆见鬼，数有效。
昔东瓯王敬鬼，寿百六十岁。
后世怠嫚，故衰耗。 ；乃命粤巫立粤祝祠，安台无坛，亦祠天神帝百鬼，而以鸡卜。
上信之，粤祠鸡卜自此始用。
公孙卿曰： 仙人可见，上往常遽，以故不见。
今陛下可为馆如缑氏城，置脯枣，神人宜可致。
且仙人好楼居。
于是上令长安则作飞廉、桂馆，甘泉则作益寿、延寿馆，使卿持节设具而候神人。
乃作通天台，置祠具其下，将招来神仙之属。
于是甘泉更置前殿，始广诸宫室。
天子为塞河，兴通天，若有光云，乃下诏： 甘泉房中生芝九茎，赦天下，毋令复作。 其明年，伐朝鲜。
夏，旱。
公孙卿曰： 黄帝时，封则天旱，干封三年。
上乃下诏： 天旱，意干封乎？
其令天下尊祠灵星焉。
明年，上郊雍五畤，通回中道，遂北出萧关，历独鹿，鸣泽，自西河归，幸河东祠后土。
明年冬，上巡南郡，至江陵而东。
登礼灊之天柱山，号曰南岳。
浮江，自浔阳出枞阳，过彭蠡，礼其名山川。
北至琅邪，并海上。
四月，至奉高修封焉。
初，天子封泰山，泰山东北止古时有明堂处，处险不敞。
上欲治明堂奉高旁，未晓其制度。
济南人公玉带上黄帝时明堂图。
明堂中有一殿，四面无壁，以茅盖。通水，水圜宫垣。为复道，上有楼，从西南入，名曰昆仑，天子从之入，以拜祀上帝焉。
于是上令奉高作明堂汶上，如带图。
及是岁修封，则祠泰一、五帝于明堂上如郊礼。毕，燎堂下。
translation: 
At this time, both Guangdong and Guangdong had been wiped out. The Guangdong people bravely said that the Cantonese customs worship ghosts and gods, and they often see ghosts when they offer sacrifices, which are often effective.
In the past, King Shuou respected ghosts and gods, and his life span was 160 years old.
His descendants neglected ghosts and gods, so their life span was shortened. So they ordered the Cantonese shamans to build a Zhu Temple in Guangdong, set up a platform without an altar, and also offered sacrifices to gods, gods and ghosts, and used chicken bones to perform divination.
The emperor felt this was credible, and the Cantonese temple used the bones of the zodiac for divination from the time of its creation.
Gongsun Qing said: Immortals can be seen, but the emperor was too eager to go, so he could not see them.
Now your majesty can build a pavilion like the one in Fengshi City and display dried meat and dates. You should be able to invite the gods.
And wise people like to live in attics.
So the emperor ordered the Feilian and Gui Pavilions to be built in Chang'an, the Yishou and Longshou Pavilions to be built in Ganquan Palace, and sent Gongsun Qing to arrange sacrifices with talismans to welcome the gods.
Build a platform to reach the sky and display sacrifices below to attract gods and the like.
So Ganquan Palace built the front hall and began to expand the palace rooms.
In summer, there are mushrooms growing in the rooms of Ganquan Palace. The emperor built the Tongtian Tower to block the gap in the Yellow River. Divine light appeared, so the emperor issued an edict to grant amnesty to the world. A year later, he launched a crusade against North Korea.
In summer, there is a major drought.
Gongsun Qing said: When the Yellow Emperor offered sacrifices to the sky, there was a drought, and the soil was sealed for three years.
The emperor then issued an edict: There is a drought. Do you want the soil to be sealed and dry?
Probably to make the world respectfully worship the spiritual star.
Another year later, the emperor worshiped the five pillars of Yongcheng in the suburbs to open up the road back to the middle, so he left Xiaoguan to the north, passed through Dulu and Mingze, returned from Xihe, and went to Hedong to worship Houtu.
In the winter of the second year, the emperor inspected Nanjun, arrived at Jiangling, and then headed eastward.
Ceremonies were held on the underground Tianzhu Mountain, which is known as Nanyue.
Take a boat down the river, leave Xunyang and Songyang, pass by Pengli, and pay homage to the famous mountains and rivers there.
Go north to Langye and go up the coastal road.
In April, a ceremony to worship heaven was held in Fenggao.
At first, when the emperor was worshiping heaven in Mount Tai, there was an ancient Mingtang at the northeast foot of Mount Tai. The terrain was dangerous and not spacious.
The emperor planned to build a bright hall next to Fenggao, but he didn't know the system for building a bright hall.
The Jinan renmin jade belt presents the Mingtang pattern from the time of the Yellow Emperor.
There is a hall in the Mingtang with no walls around. It is built with thatched grass. The hall is connected to the water flow. The water flow surrounds the palace wall. It has an upper and lower passage with a building above it. It enters from the southwest and is called Kunlun. The emperor enters from here to worship God.
So the emperor ordered a Mingtang to be built on the Fenggaowen River, which was exactly the same as the picture presented by Gong Yudai.
The emperor entered from Kunlun Road and began to worship in the Mingtang with the same etiquette as suburban sacrifices. After the ceremony, firewood was burned in the hall for sacrifice.
summary:
The evolution of religious and sacrificial practices during the Han Dynasty, focusing on the reigns of Emperors Wu, Zhao, Xuan, Yuan, Cheng, Ai, and Ping, as well as the usurper Wang Mang. The belief in ghosts and gods in Guangdong, where King Shuou’s reverence for them allegedly extended his life to 160 years, while neglect shortened his descendants’ lives. This led to the construction of temples and divination using chicken bones. Emperor Wu, influenced by alchemists like Gongsun Qing, built pavilions and towers in Chang’an and Ganquan Palace to invite immortals, including the Feilian, Gui, Yishou, and Longshou Pavilions, and the Tongtian Tower. He conducted sacrifices, such as those to Taiyi and Houtu, and expanded palace rooms. After a drought, Gongsun Qing cited the Yellow Emperor’s precedent, leading to a decree for worldwide worship of the spiritual star. Emperor Wu performed numerous rituals, including suburban sacrifices at Yongcheng, worship at Mount Tai, and construction of a Mingtang based on a Yellow Emperor-era design. He also built Jianzhang Palace, Taiye Pool with artificial islands, and the Shenming Terrace, all to attract gods. The calendar was revised, and the year was renamed Taichu. Alchemists continued to advise, leading to the construction of five cities and twelve towers. Emperor Wu made five pilgrimages to Mount Tai for sealing ceremonies, and sacrifices were made to various mountains and rivers.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
宣帝即位，由武帝正统兴，故立三年，尊孝武庙为世宗，行所巡狩郡国皆立庙。
告祠世宗庙日，有白鹤集后庭。
以立世宗庙告祠孝昭寝，有雁五色集殿前。
西河筑世宗庙，神光兴于殿旁，有鸟如白鹤，前赤后青。
神光又兴于房中，如烛状。
广川国世宗庙殿上有钟音，门户大开，夜有光，殿上尽明。
上乃下诏赦天下。
时，大将军霍光辅政，上共己正南面，非宗庙之祀不出。
十二年，乃下诏曰： 盖闻天子尊事天地，修祀山川，古今通礼也。
间者，上帝之祠阙而不亲十有余年，朕甚惧焉。
朕亲饬躬齐戒，亲泰祀，为百姓蒙嘉气、获丰年焉。
明年正月，上始幸甘泉，郊见泰畤，数有美祥。
修武帝故事，盛车服，敬齐祠之礼，颇作诗歌。
其三月，幸河东，祠后土，有神爵集，改元为神爵。
制诏太常： 夫江海，百川之大者也，今阙焉无祠。
其令祠官以礼为岁事，以四时祠江海雒水，祈为天下丰年焉。
自是五岳、四渎皆有常礼。
东岳泰山于博，中岳泰室于嵩高，南岳灊山于用腄，西岳华山于华阴，北岳常山于上曲阳，河于临晋，江于江都，淮于平氏，济于临邑界中，皆使者持节侍祠。
唯泰山与河岁五祠，江水四，余皆一祷而三祠云。
时，南郡获白虎，献其皮、牙、爪，上为立祠。
又以方士言，为随侯、剑宝、玉宝璧、周康宝鼎立四祠于未央宫中。
又祠太室山于即墨，三户山于下密，祠天封苑火井于鸿门。
又立岁星、辰星、太白、荧惑、南斗祠于长安城旁。
又祠参山八神于曲城，蓬山石杜、石鼓于临朐，之罘山于腄，成山于不夜，莱山于黄。
成山祠日，莱山祠月。
又祠四时于琅邪，蚩尤于寿良。
京师近县，鄠则有劳谷、五床山、日、月、五帝、仙人、玉女祠；云阳有径路神祠，祭休屠王也。
又立五龙山仙人祠及黄帝、天神帝、原水凡四祠于肤施。
或言益州有金马、碧鸡之神，可醮祭而致，于是谴谏大夫王褒使持节而求之。
translation: 
Emperor Xuan was the emperor, and because he was succeeded by Emperor Wu's orthodoxy, three years after he ascended the throne, he honored Xiaowu Temple as Shizong, and built Shizong temples in all the counties he visited.
On the day of the memorial ceremony at Sejong Temple, white cranes gathered in the back courtyard.
When the ancestral temple was built and the tomb of Xiaozhao was dedicated, there were five-colored geese gathering in front of the temple.
When Sejong Temple was being built in Xihe, a divine light appeared beside the temple, and there was a bird like a white crane, with red in front and cyan behind.
The divine light appeared in the room again, like a candlelight.
There are bells ringing in the Sejong Temple in Guangcheon Kingdom, the door is wide open, there is light at night, and the whole temple is bright and bright.
The emperor went down to Shao to grant amnesty to the whole world.
At that time, the general Huo Guang was assisting the government, and the emperor was sitting respectfully on the throne. He could not go out to worship except in the ancestral temple.
In the twelfth year, he issued an edict saying: I have heard that the emperor serves heaven and earth devoutly and sacrifices to mountains and rivers, which is a common ritual in ancient and modern times.
In the past, I had not personally offered sacrifices to the temple of God for more than ten years, and I was very scared.
I decided to take the lead in fasting and offering sacrifices in person to pray for good fortune for the people so that they can have a good harvest.
In the first month of the second year, the emperor went to Ganquan Palace to worship Longqi in the suburbs. Good omens appeared several times.
Following the precedent of the timely period, chariots and uniforms flourished, people respectfully performed the etiquette of fasting and shrines, and wrote many poems.
In March of this year, I went to Jiese in person to offer sacrifices to Houtu. There were a gathering of gods and nobles, so I changed the Yuan Dynasty to Sujue.
An edict was issued to Taichang saying: Kensi and Dahai are the largest of all rivers, and no one is going to worship them now.
The ancestral officials are now ordered to make sacrifices an annual event, offering sacrifices to the Yangtze River, the sea, and the Luoshui River in the four seasons to pray for good harvests for the world.
From then on, the Five Mountains and the Four Mountains were often worshiped.
Mount Shuyue and Taishi were worshiped in Bodi, Zhongyue Taishi was worshiped in Songshan, Nanyue Zhishan was worshiped in Qiandi, Xiyue Huashan was worshiped in Huayin, Beiyue Changshan was worshiped in Shangquyang, the Yellow River was worshiped in Linjin, the Yangtze River was worshiped in Jiangdu, the Huai River was worshiped in Pingshi, and the Jishui was worshiped in Linyi. The envoys held talismans to preside over the sacrifices.
Only Mount Tai and the Yellow River have five temples a year, and the rivers have four temples. The rest pray once and offer sacrifices three times.
At that time, Nanjun captured a white tiger and presented its skin, teeth and claws to the court, and the emperor used them to build a temple.
According to the advice of the alchemists, four ancestral halls were built in Weiyang Palace for Suihou, Jianbao, Yubaobi and Zhoukangbaoding.
They also offered sacrifices to Taishi Mountain in Jimo, to Sanhu Mountain in Xiami, and to Tianfengyuan Huojing in Hongmen.
The Jupiter, Chenxing, Venus, Mars and Nandou Temples were also built next to Chang'an City.
They also worshiped Shenshan and the Eight Gods in Qucheng, worshiped the Shishe Shigu in Pengshan in Linqu, worshiped Zhifu Mountain in Zhuang, worshiped Chengshan in Wuye, and worshiped Laishan in Huang.
They worship the sun in Chengshan and the moon in Laishan.
They also offered sacrifices to the Four Seasons in Langye, and to Chiyou in Shouliang.
In Hubei, a nearby county of the capital, there are Laogu, Wudoshan, Sun and Moon, Five Emperors, Biren, and Jade Girl Temples. There is a Jinglu Shrine in Yunyang, which is used to worship King Xiutu.
In Fushi, four temples were built, including the Ziren Temple in Wulong Mountain and the Huangdi Temple, Tianshen Temple, and Diyuanshui Temple.
Some people said that there were gods of golden horses and jade roosters in Yizhou, which could be summoned by sacrifices, so they sent Wang, the admonishing doctor, to pray to the gods while holding amulets wrapped around them.
summary:
During Emperor Zhao’s reign, he was too young to participate in sacrifices. Emperor Xuan honored Emperor Wu as Shizong, building temples where divine signs like white cranes and five-colored geese appeared. Emperor Xuan personally performed suburban sacrifices at Ganquan and Jiese, changing the era name to Sujue. He ordered annual sacrifices to the Yangtze River, sea, and Luoshui, and regular worship of the Five Mountains and Four Rivers. Alchemists advised building temples for various gods, including Suihou and Zhoukangbaoding. Doctor Liu Gengsheng was punished for failed alchemy. Jingzhao Yin Zhang Chang advised against alchemists, and many were dismissed. A tripod found in Meiyang was debated; Zhang Chang argued it was a Zhou dynasty artifact, not suitable for the ancestral temple. Phoenixes and other auspicious signs led to the construction of Bushou Palace and Phoenix Hall. Emperor Xuan died after a reign marked by frequent sacrifices and omens.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
后间岁，改元为甘露。
正月，上幸甘泉，郊泰畤。
其夏，黄龙见新丰。
建章、未央、长乐宫钟虚铜人皆生长，长一寸所，时以为美祥。
后间岁正月，上郊泰畤，因朝单于于甘泉宫。
后间岁，改元为黄龙。
正月，复幸甘泉，郊泰畤，又朝单于于甘泉宫。
至冬而崩。
凤凰下郡国凡五十余所。
元帝即位，遵旧仪，间岁正月，一幸甘泉郊泰畤，又东至河东祠后土，西至雍祠五畤。
凡五奉泰畤、后土之祠。
亦施恩泽，时所过毋出田租，赐百户牛、酒，或赐爵，赦罪人。
元帝好儒，贡禹、韦玄成、匡衡等相继为公卿。
禹建言汉家宗庙祭祀多不应古礼，上是其言。
后韦玄成为丞相，议罢郡国庙，自太上皇、孝惠诸园寝庙皆罢。
后元帝寝疾，梦神灵谴罢诸庙祠，上遂复焉。
后或罢或复，至哀、平不定。
语在《韦玄成传》。
成帝初即位，丞相衡、御史大夫谭奏言： 帝王之事莫大乎承天之序，承天之序莫重于郊祀，故圣王尽心极虑以建其制。
祭天于南郊，就阳之义也；瘗地于北郊，即阴之象也。
天之于天子也，因其所都而各飨焉。
往者，孝武皇帝居甘泉宫，即于云阳立泰畤，祭于宫南。
今行常幸长安，郊见皇天，反北之泰阴，祠后土，反东之少阳，事与古制殊。
又至云阳，行溪谷中，厄陕且百里，汾阴则渡大川，有风波舟楫之危，皆非圣主所宜数乘，郡、县治道共张，吏民困苦，百官烦费。
translation: 
After a year, the name was changed to nectar.
In the first month of the first month, the emperor went to Ganquan to worship Taizhi in the suburbs.
This summer, a yellow dragon appeared in Xinfeng.
Hair grew on the wooden frames and bronze figures of the bells hanging in Jianzhang, Weiyang and Changle palaces, more than an inch long, which was considered auspicious at the time.
Later, it was the first month of the year. When the emperor went to the suburbs to pay homage to Thailand, he met Shan Yu at Ganquan Palace.
Later, a year later, the name was changed to Huanglong.
In the first month of the first month, he returned to Ganquan Palace to worship Taizhi in the suburbs, and then received Shanyu's audience in Ganquan Palace.
In the winter the emperor died.
凤凰降到郡国的共有五十多处。
Emperor Yuan ascended the throne and followed the old etiquette. In the first month of every other year, he went to the outskirts of Ganquan Palace to worship Taizhi, then to the east of Hedong to worship Houtu, and to the west to Yongcheng to worship Wuzhi.
A total of five sacrifices were offered to Taishi and Houtu.
They also gave favors. Sometimes they did not have to pay land rent in the places they passed, and they gave cattle and wine to a hundred households, and some gave them titles of nobility. Forgive sinners.
Emperor Yuan liked Confucianism, and Gong Yu, Wei Xuancheng, Kuang Heng and others became ministers one after another.
Gong Yu suggested that most of the sacrifices held in the Mojia ancestral temple were inconsistent with ancient rituals, and the emperor agreed with his opinion.
Later, when Wei Xuan became prime minister, he suggested that the temples of prefectures and states should be abolished, and the sacrifices in the temples of various gardens and dormitories from Emperor Taishang to Emperor Xiaohui should be abolished.
Later, Emperor Yuan fell ill and dreamed that the gods came to condemn him for abolishing various temples, so Emperor Yuan resumed offering sacrifices.
Later, it was abolished and restored, and by the time of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, there was no definite number.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of Wei Xuancheng".
As soon as Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, Prime Minister Kuang Heng and Imperial Censor Zhang Tan reported: "There is no more important matter for an emperor than inheriting the throne from heaven, and nothing is more important than inheriting the throne from heaven than offering sacrifices in the suburbs. Therefore, the holy kings all tried their best to establish the ritual system of offering sacrifices in the suburbs."
Worshiping the sky in the southern suburbs has the meaning of tending to Yang; worshiping the earth in the northern suburbs symbolizes tending to Yin.
To the emperor, heaven means enjoying their respective sacrifices in the place where the emperor has established the capital.
In the past, Emperor Xiaowu lived in Ganquan Palace. When Taiyuan was established in Yunyang, he worshiped in the south of the palace.
Nowadays, when traveling to Chang'an, people often go to Chang'an to offer sacrifices to the emperor. Instead, they go north to the lunar point, and when they offer sacrifices to the earth, they go east to the more yang place. Things are different from the ancient system.
Then we went to Yunyang and walked in the valley. The road was narrow and steep for nearly a hundred miles. When we got to Fenyin, we had to cross a large river. There were dangers of storms and boating. It was not suitable for a wise monarch to do it repeatedly. The counties and counties repaired roads and supplied various utensils. The officials and the people were in hardship, and the officials spent a lot of money.
summary:
Emperor Yuan followed old rituals, performing suburban sacrifices every other year, but favored Confucianism. Ministers like Gong Yu and Wei Xuancheng proposed abolishing many temples, but Emperor Yuan reversed this after dreaming of divine condemnation. Emperor Cheng’s reign saw a major reform: Prime Minister Kuang Heng and Imperial Censor Zhang Tan argued that sacrifices should be moved to Chang’an’s northern and southern suburbs, citing ancient practices and the hardships of traveling to Ganquan and Fenyin. After debate, the move was approved, and many temples were abolished. However, after Emperor Cheng had no heirs, the Empress Dowager ordered the restoration of the old temples at Ganquan, Fenyin, and Yongcheng, blaming the move for the lack of descendants. Emperor Cheng later became obsessed with alchemists, but Gu Yong warned against them, citing historical failures. Du Ye also criticized the distant sacrifices. After Emperor Cheng’s death, the Empress Dowager restored the northern and southern suburbs.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
王者莫不尊重亲祭，自为之主，礼如宗庙。
《诗》曰 乃立冢土 。
又曰 以御田祖，以祈甘雨 。
《礼记》曰 唯祭宗庙社稷，为越绋而行事 。
圣汉兴，礼仪稍定，已有官社，未立官稷。
遂于官社后立官稷，以夏禹配食官社，后稷配食官稷。
稷种穀树。
徐州牧岁贡五色土各一斗。
莽篡位二年，兴神仙事，以方士苏乐言，起八风台于宫中。
台成万金，作乐其上，顺风作液汤。
又种五梁禾于殿中，各顺色置其方面，先煮鹤髓、毒冒、犀玉二十余物渍种，计粟斛成一金，言此黄帝谷仙之术也。
以乐为黄门郎，令主之。
莽遂崇鬼神淫祀，至其末年，自天地六宗以下至诸小鬼神，凡千七百所，用三牲鸟兽三千余种。
后不能备，乃以鸡当鹜雁，犬当麋鹿。
数下诏自以当仙，语在其《传》。
赞曰：汉兴之初，庶事草创，唯一叔孙生略定朝廷之仪。
若乃正朔、服色、郊望之事，数世犹未章焉。
至于孝文，始以夏郊，而张仓据水德，公孙臣、贾谊更以为土德，卒不能明。
孝武之世，文章为盛，太初改制，而宽、司马迁等犹从臣、谊之言，服色数度，遂顺黄德。
彼以五德之传，从所不胜，秦在水德，故谓汉据土而克之。
刘向父子以为帝出于《震》，故包羲氏始受木德，其后以母传子，终而复始，自神农、黄帝下历唐、虞三代而汉得火焉。
故高祖始起，神母夜号，著赤帝之符，旗章遂赤，自得天统矣。
昔共工氏以水德间于木、火，与秦同运，非其次序，故皆不永。
translation: 
The emperor did not disrespect and value the sacrifices himself, and personally presided over the sacrifices. The etiquette was the same as that of sacrifices in the ancestral temple.
"Poetry" says that a big society was built.
He also said that he would serve Ji God and pray for sweet rain.
"Book of Rites" says that only offering sacrifices to the ancestors and temples is called Yuesui.
The Holy Han Dynasty was established, etiquette was gradually established, there were official societies, but there was no official country yet.
So Guan Ji was established after the official society, and Xia Yu was used to feed the official society, and Hou Ji was used to share the official grain.
Plant cereal trees in the fields.
The Mu Shou of Xuzhou paid a tribute of one dou each of the five colors of soil every year.
In the second year after Wang Mang usurped the throne, the affairs of immortals arose. According to the advice of the alchemist Su Le, the Eight Winds Tower was built in the palace.
It cost ten thousand gold to build the platform. Music was played on it and a liquid soup was built in the direction of the wind.
He also planted five grains of grain in the palace, placing each one in its proper position according to its own color. First, he boiled more than twenty kinds of materials such as crane marrow, tortoise shell, and rhinoceros jade to soak the seeds. One handful of millet was calculated into one gold. This was said to be the method of the Yellow Emperor's Valley Immortal.
He appointed Su Le as Huang Menlang and ordered him to take charge of this matter.
Wang Mang then worshiped ghosts and gods and performed too many sacrifices. By the end of Wang Mang's life, there were a total of 1,700 temples, ranging from the six sects of heaven and earth to the minor ghosts and gods, and more than 3,000 kinds of animals and birds were used.
Later, when they couldn't prepare everything, they used harps as geese and dogs as elk.
Several times, Shao thought that he should become a god, and his words were recorded in his biography.
Zan said: In the early days of the establishment of the Han Dynasty, everything was in the preliminary stage, and only Shu Sunsheng briefly formulated the etiquette of the court.
As for things like Zhengshuo, Fuse, Jiaowang, etc., it has not been clarified after several generations.
By the time of Emperor Xiaowen, people began to hold sacrifices in the summer suburbs. However, Zhang Cang based his practice on Shui De, while Gongsun Chen and Jia Yi thought it should be changed to Tu De, but they could not figure it out in the end.
In the era of Emperor Xiaowu, rituals, music, and laws flourished. At the beginning of the Taichu period, the ritual system was reformed, but Ni Kuan, Sima Qian, and others still followed what Gongsun Chen and Mai Yi said, and the service system followed Huang De.
Based on the principle that the five virtues are transmitted and followed and cannot be defeated, they believe that the Qin Dynasty relied on the virtue of water, so they said that the Han Dynasty defeated it based on the virtue of earth.
Liu Xiang and his son believed that the emperor came from "Zhen", so Bao Xi began to accept Mu De, which was passed from mother to son, and over and over again. From Shennong and Huangdi through the Tang, Yu and Han dynasties, they got Huo De.
Therefore, when Emperor Gaozu began to rise, the Mother Goddess cried at night to show the auspicious symbol of the Red Emperor, and the color of the flag was red, which naturally led to heavenly rule.
In the past, the Gonggong family used water virtue to separate wood and fire. They had the same fate as the Qin Dynasty, which was not their order, so they could not last long.
summary:
Emperor Ai, ill, revived many temples, but after his death, the Empress Dowager again restored the Ganquan and Fenyin temples. Under Emperor Ping, Wang Mang reported extensively on sacrificial history, arguing for a return to the northern and southern suburbs and proposing a system where heaven and earth were worshiped together with ancestors. He established altars for the Five Emperors and various gods in Chang’an’s suburbs, and later added an official shrine for the god of grain. After usurping the throne, Wang Mang built the Eight Winds Tower and engaged in alchemy, with over 1,700 temples by his death. The text concludes with a commentary on the Han Dynasty’s ritual evolution, noting debates over the five virtues and the influence of alchemists, with Gu Yong’s criticisms deemed correct.

