Chunk 0: 
original: 
是时既灭两粤，粤人勇之乃言： 粤人俗鬼，而其祠皆见鬼，数有效。
昔东瓯王敬鬼，寿百六十岁。
后世怠嫚，故衰耗。 ；乃命粤巫立粤祝祠，安台无坛，亦祠天神帝百鬼，而以鸡卜。
上信之，粤祠鸡卜自此始用。
公孙卿曰： 仙人可见，上往常遽，以故不见。
今陛下可为馆如缑氏城，置脯枣，神人宜可致。
且仙人好楼居。
于是上令长安则作飞廉、桂馆，甘泉则作益寿、延寿馆，使卿持节设具而候神人。
乃作通天台，置祠具其下，将招来神仙之属。
于是甘泉更置前殿，始广诸宫室。
天子为塞河，兴通天，若有光云，乃下诏： 甘泉房中生芝九茎，赦天下，毋令复作。 其明年，伐朝鲜。
夏，旱。
公孙卿曰： 黄帝时，封则天旱，干封三年。
上乃下诏： 天旱，意干封乎？
其令天下尊祠灵星焉。
明年，上郊雍五畤，通回中道，遂北出萧关，历独鹿，鸣泽，自西河归，幸河东祠后土。
明年冬，上巡南郡，至江陵而东。
登礼灊之天柱山，号曰南岳。
浮江，自浔阳出枞阳，过彭蠡，礼其名山川。
北至琅邪，并海上。
四月，至奉高修封焉。
初，天子封泰山，泰山东北止古时有明堂处，处险不敞。
上欲治明堂奉高旁，未晓其制度。
济南人公玉带上黄帝时明堂图。
明堂中有一殿，四面无壁，以茅盖。通水，水圜宫垣。为复道，上有楼，从西南入，名曰昆仑，天子从之入，以拜祀上帝焉。
于是上令奉高作明堂汶上，如带图。
及是岁修封，则祠泰一、五帝于明堂上如郊礼。毕，燎堂下。
translation: 
At this time, both Guangdong and Guangdong had been wiped out. The Guangdong people bravely said that the Cantonese customs worship ghosts and gods, and they often see ghosts when they offer sacrifices, which are often effective.
In the past, King Shuou respected ghosts and gods, and his life span was 160 years old.
His descendants neglected ghosts and gods, so their life span was shortened. So they ordered the Cantonese shamans to build a Zhu Temple in Guangdong, set up a platform without an altar, and also offered sacrifices to gods, gods and ghosts, and used chicken bones to perform divination.
The emperor felt this was credible, and the Cantonese temple used the bones of the zodiac for divination from the time of its creation.
Gongsun Qing said: Immortals can be seen, but the emperor was too eager to go, so he could not see them.
Now your majesty can build a pavilion like the one in Fengshi City and display dried meat and dates. You should be able to invite the gods.
And wise people like to live in attics.
So the emperor ordered the Feilian and Gui Pavilions to be built in Chang'an, the Yishou and Longshou Pavilions to be built in Ganquan Palace, and sent Gongsun Qing to arrange sacrifices with talismans to welcome the gods.
Build a platform to reach the sky and display sacrifices below to attract gods and the like.
So Ganquan Palace built the front hall and began to expand the palace rooms.
In summer, there are mushrooms growing in the rooms of Ganquan Palace. The emperor built the Tongtian Tower to block the gap in the Yellow River. Divine light appeared, so the emperor issued an edict to grant amnesty to the world. A year later, he launched a crusade against North Korea.
In summer, there is a major drought.
Gongsun Qing said: When the Yellow Emperor offered sacrifices to the sky, there was a drought, and the soil was sealed for three years.
The emperor then issued an edict: There is a drought. Do you want the soil to be sealed and dry?
Probably to make the world respectfully worship the spiritual star.
Another year later, the emperor worshiped the five pillars of Yongcheng in the suburbs to open up the road back to the middle, so he left Xiaoguan to the north, passed through Dulu and Mingze, returned from Xihe, and went to Hedong to worship Houtu.
In the winter of the second year, the emperor inspected Nanjun, arrived at Jiangling, and then headed eastward.
Ceremonies were held on the underground Tianzhu Mountain, which is known as Nanyue.
Take a boat down the river, leave Xunyang and Songyang, pass by Pengli, and pay homage to the famous mountains and rivers there.
Go north to Langye and go up the coastal road.
In April, a ceremony to worship heaven was held in Fenggao.
At first, when the emperor was worshiping heaven in Mount Tai, there was an ancient Mingtang at the northeast foot of Mount Tai. The terrain was dangerous and not spacious.
The emperor planned to build a bright hall next to Fenggao, but he didn't know the system for building a bright hall.
The Jinan renmin jade belt presents the Mingtang pattern from the time of the Yellow Emperor.
There is a hall in the Mingtang with no walls around. It is built with thatched grass. The hall is connected to the water flow. The water flow surrounds the palace wall. It has an upper and lower passage with a building above it. It enters from the southwest and is called Kunlun. The emperor enters from here to worship God.
So the emperor ordered a Mingtang to be built on the Fenggaowen River, which was exactly the same as the picture presented by Gong Yudai.
The emperor entered from Kunlun Road and began to worship in the Mingtang with the same etiquette as suburban sacrifices. After the ceremony, firewood was burned in the hall for sacrifice.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
而上又上泰山，自有秘祠其颠。
而泰山下祠五帝，各如其方，黄帝并赤帝所，有司侍祠焉。
山上举火，下悉应之。
还幸甘泉，郊泰畤。
春幸汾阴，祠后土。
明年，幸泰山，以十一月甲子朔旦冬至日祀上帝于明堂，毋修封。
其赞飨曰： 天增援皇帝泰元神策，周而复始。
皇帝敬拜泰一。
东至海上，考入海及方士求神者，莫验，然益遣，几遇之。
乙酉，柏梁灾。
十二月甲午朔，上亲禅高里，祠后土。
临勃海，将以望祀蓬莱之属，几至殊庭焉。
上还，以柏梁灾故，受计甘泉。
公孙卿曰： 黄帝就青灵台，十二日烧，黄帝乃治明庭。
明庭，甘泉也。
方士多言古帝王有都甘泉者。
其后天子又朝诸侯甘泉，甘泉作诸侯邸。
勇之乃曰： 粤俗有火灾，复起屋，必以大，用胜服之。
于是作建章宫，度为千门万户。
前殿度高未央。
其东则凤阙，高二十余丈。
其西则商中，数十里虎圈。
其北治大池，渐台高二十余丈，名曰泰液，池中有蓬莱、方丈、瀛州、壶梁，象海中神山、龟、鱼之属。
其南有玉堂璧门大鸟之属。
立神明台、井干楼，高五十丈，辇道相属焉。
夏，汉改历，以正月为岁首，而色上黄，官更印章以五字，因为太初元年。
是岁，西伐大宛。蝗大起。
丁夫人、雒阳虞初等以方祠诅匈奴、大宛焉。
明年，有司言雍五畤无牢孰具，芬芳不备。
乃令祠官进畤犊牢具，色食所胜，而以木寓马代驹云。
及诸名山川用驹者，悉以木寓马代。
translation: 
The emperor climbed Mount Tai again and offered sacrifices on the top of the mountain.
The Five Emperors were worshiped at the foot of Mount Tai. According to their respective positions, the Yellow Emperor and the Red Emperor were together, and relevant officials were waiting for the sacrifices on one side.
When torches are raised on the mountain, fire is also raised below the mountain.
Returning to Ganquan Palace, we worshiped Taizhi in the suburbs.
Come to Fenyin in spring and go up after offering sacrifices.
Another year later, the emperor went to Mount Tai, because on the first winter solstice of the Jiazi lunar month in November, he would offer sacrifices to heaven in the Mingtang and would not build the earth.
There is a praise saying: God has given the emperor Taiyuan divine strategies, and the cycle begins again and again.
The emperor worshiped Taiyi devoutly.
After being sent to the sea, the people who visited the sea and the alchemists who visited the gods were not confirmed, but they still sent more people in the hope of encountering the gods.
In Yiyou, a fire broke out in Bailiang.
On the first day of the Jiawu lunar month in December, the emperor personally went to Gaoli to offer sacrifices to Houtu.
When I come to Bohai, I will visit Penglai and other places, and I hope to go to Shuting.
After the emperor came back, he accepted the accounting records from the county and state at Ganquan Palace because of the fire in Bailiang.
Gongsun Qing said: After Huangdi built Qingling Tower, it was burned down twelve days later, so Huangdi built Mingting Pavilion.
Mingting is Ganquan Palace.
Most alchemists say that ancient emperors built their capitals in Ganquan.
From then on, the emperor received court visits from the princes in Ganquan, and Ganquan served as the official residence of the princes.
Yongzhi then said: "The custom in Guangdong is to rebuild a house when there is a fire. The house built must be bigger than the original one. This is to use large scale to control the fire."
So Jianzhang Palace was built, and thousands of households were planned to be built.
The height of the front hall is expected to be higher than that of Weiyang Palace.
It is bounded by a phoenix tower and is more than twenty feet high.
To the west is Shangzhong, where dozens of miles of tiger enclosures have been built.
There is a large pool built in the north with a gradual platform more than 20 feet high, named Taiye. There are Penglai, Fangzhang, Yingzhou and Huliang built in the pool, like sacred mountains, turtles and fish in the sea.
In the south, there are buildings such as Yutang, Bimen and Big Bird.
The Shenming Terrace and Jinggan Tower were built, fifty feet high, and the chariot roads were connected to each other.
In the summer, the Han Dynasty revised the calendar and used the first month as the beginning of the year. The color was yellow, and the seal engraved with the official name was changed to five characters, stipulating that the current year was the first year of Taichu.
In this year, the Han Dynasty army attacked Dawan westward, and a large-scale locust plague occurred.
Mrs. Ding, Yu Chi and others used alchemy rituals to curse the Xiongnu and Dawan.
After a year, the relevant officials said that there were no cooked sacrifices at the five o'clock in Yongdi and the fragrance was not enough.
So he ordered the ancestral officials to distribute utensils for cooking sacrifices to Wuzhi. The colors were arranged according to the five elements, and puppet horses were used instead of horses.
All famous mountains and rivers that use horses are replaced by puppet horses.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
独行过亲祠，乃用驹，它礼如故。
明年，东巡海上，考神仙之属，未有验者。
方士有言：黄帝时为五城十二楼，以候神人于执期，名曰迎年。
上许作之如方，名曰明年。
上亲礼祠，上犊黄焉。
公玉带曰： 黄帝时虽封泰山，然风后、封巨、岐伯令黄帝封东泰山，禅凡山，合符，然后不死。
天子既令设祠具，至东泰山，东泰山卑小，不称其声，乃令祠官礼之而不封焉。
其后令带奉祠候神物。
复还泰山，修五年之礼如前，而加禅祠石闾。
石闾者，在泰山下止南方，方士言仙人闾也，故上亲禅焉。
其后五年，夏至泰山修封，还过祭恒山。
自封泰山后，十三岁而周遍于五岳、四渎矣。
后五年，复至泰山修封。
东幸琅邪，礼日成山，登之罘，浮大海，用事八神延年。
又祠神人于交门宫，若有乡坐拜者云。
后五年，上复修封于泰山。
东游东莱，临大海。
是岁，雍县无云如雷者三，或如虹气苍黄，若飞鸟集木或阳宫南，声闻四百里。
陨石二，黑如黳，有司有以为美祥，以荐宗庙。
而方士之候神入海求蓬莱者终无验，公孙卿犹以大人之迹为解。
天子犹羁縻不绝，几遇其真。
诸所兴，如薄忌泰一及三一、冥羊、马行、赤星，五。
宽舒之祠官以岁时致礼。
凡六祠，皆大祝领之。
至如八神，诸明年、凡山它名祠，行过则祠，去则已。
方士所兴祠，各自主，其人终则已，祠官不主。
它祠皆如故。
甘泉泰一、汾阴后土，三年亲郊祠，而泰山五年一修封。
武帝凡五修封。
昭帝即位，富于春秋，未尝亲巡祭云。
translation: 
Horses were used only when the emperor personally offered sacrifices when he passed by, and other sacrifices remained the same.
After another year, the emperor patrolled the sea eastward to inspect the gods and the like, but he did not get any efficacious results.
Some alchemists said that during the time of the Yellow Emperor, five cities and twelve towers were built to welcome gods and men during the execution period, which was called Ying Nian.
The emperor agreed to build five cities and twelve floors according to the mentioned style, named next year.
The emperor went to sacrifice in person, and the calf he offered was yellow.
Gong Yudai said: Although the Yellow Emperor sealed Mount Tai, Feng Hou, Feng Ju, and Qi Bo ordered the Yellow Emperor to go to Mount Shutai to offer sacrifices to heaven and to Mount Fan to offer sacrifices to the earth. If they matched Fu Rui, they would be immortal.
The emperor had already ordered the setting up of sacrificial vessels and went to Shutai Mountain. But Dongtai Mountain was short and did not live up to its name, so he ordered the temple to offer sacrifices and no longer build an altar here.
Later, the public jade belt was ordered to be brought to the temple to welcome the sacred object.
Returning to Mount Tai, we performed the same rituals as we did five years ago, and also offered sacrifices among the rocks.
The stone slab is located to the south at the foot of Mount Tai. The alchemist said it was the former residence of the immortal, so the emperor went to worship it in person.
Five years after his dispatch, the emperor went back to Mount Tai to repair and seal the land. On his way back, he passed by Mount Heng to offer sacrifices.
From the time of worshiping the Heavenly Queen on Mount Tai, all the five mountains and four mountains were worshiped in thirteen years.
After another five years, he returned to Mount Tai to repair and seal the soil.
Go east to Langye, worship the immortals at Chengshan, climb the Fu, float in the sea, and worship the Eight Gods at Yannian.
They also offered sacrifices to gods in Jiaomen Palace, and it seemed as if gods and gods were sitting next to each other in the ancestral hall and worshiping.
Five more years later, the emperor returned to Mount Tai to repair and seal the land.
Travel east to Donglai and arrive at the seaside.
One year ago, there were no dark clouds in Yong County, but there seemed to be three thunders, some like rainbows, pale yellow, like birds gathering in the south of Jiuyang Palace, and the sound vibrated four hundred miles away.
There were two meteorites as black as horseshoe crabs. The officials thought they were auspicious and presented them to the ancestral temple.
However, the alchemists who went to the sea to visit Penglai and greet the gods never came true. Gongsun Qing still used the footprints of giants as his rhetoric.
The emperor still lingers here, hoping to meet a true man of God.
Various newly built sacrificial places are like Boji's Taiyi and Sanyi, Ming Yang, Ma Xing and Chi Xing, a total of five places.
Kuanshu's ancestral officials perform sacrifices according to the four seasons of the year.
There are six ancestral halls in total, all of which are managed by Da Zhu.
As for other famous shrines such as the Eight Gods, Gemennian, Fanshan, etc., worship is performed when passing by, and it stops when you leave.
The ancestral halls built by the alchemists are in charge of themselves. When a person dies, sacrifices will stop, and the ancestral officials will not care.
All other temples are the same as before.
The emperor personally offered sacrifices to Taiyi in Ganquan Palace and Houtu in Fenyin once every three years, while Mount Tai was repaired and sealed every five years.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, the seal was repaired five times.
Emperor Zhao was on the throne, but he was still young and had never personally visited the temple to offer sacrifices.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
宣帝即位，由武帝正统兴，故立三年，尊孝武庙为世宗，行所巡狩郡国皆立庙。
告祠世宗庙日，有白鹤集后庭。
以立世宗庙告祠孝昭寝，有雁五色集殿前。
西河筑世宗庙，神光兴于殿旁，有鸟如白鹤，前赤后青。
神光又兴于房中，如烛状。
广川国世宗庙殿上有钟音，门户大开，夜有光，殿上尽明。
上乃下诏赦天下。
时，大将军霍光辅政，上共己正南面，非宗庙之祀不出。
十二年，乃下诏曰： 盖闻天子尊事天地，修祀山川，古今通礼也。
间者，上帝之祠阙而不亲十有余年，朕甚惧焉。
朕亲饬躬齐戒，亲泰祀，为百姓蒙嘉气、获丰年焉。
明年正月，上始幸甘泉，郊见泰畤，数有美祥。
修武帝故事，盛车服，敬齐祠之礼，颇作诗歌。
其三月，幸河东，祠后土，有神爵集，改元为神爵。
制诏太常： 夫江海，百川之大者也，今阙焉无祠。
其令祠官以礼为岁事，以四时祠江海雒水，祈为天下丰年焉。
自是五岳、四渎皆有常礼。
东岳泰山于博，中岳泰室于嵩高，南岳灊山于用腄，西岳华山于华阴，北岳常山于上曲阳，河于临晋，江于江都，淮于平氏，济于临邑界中，皆使者持节侍祠。
唯泰山与河岁五祠，江水四，余皆一祷而三祠云。
时，南郡获白虎，献其皮、牙、爪，上为立祠。
又以方士言，为随侯、剑宝、玉宝璧、周康宝鼎立四祠于未央宫中。
又祠太室山于即墨，三户山于下密，祠天封苑火井于鸿门。
又立岁星、辰星、太白、荧惑、南斗祠于长安城旁。
又祠参山八神于曲城，蓬山石杜、石鼓于临朐，之罘山于腄，成山于不夜，莱山于黄。
成山祠日，莱山祠月。
又祠四时于琅邪，蚩尤于寿良。
京师近县，鄠则有劳谷、五床山、日、月、五帝、仙人、玉女祠；云阳有径路神祠，祭休屠王也。
又立五龙山仙人祠及黄帝、天神帝、原水凡四祠于肤施。
或言益州有金马、碧鸡之神，可醮祭而致，于是谴谏大夫王褒使持节而求之。
translation: 
Emperor Xuan was the emperor, and because he was succeeded by Emperor Wu's orthodoxy, three years after he ascended the throne, he honored Xiaowu Temple as Shizong, and built Shizong temples in all the counties he visited.
On the day of the memorial ceremony at Sejong Temple, white cranes gathered in the back courtyard.
When the ancestral temple was built and the tomb of Xiaozhao was dedicated, there were five-colored geese gathering in front of the temple.
When Sejong Temple was being built in Xihe, a divine light appeared beside the temple, and there was a bird like a white crane, with red in front and cyan behind.
The divine light appeared in the room again, like a candlelight.
There are bells ringing in the Sejong Temple in Guangcheon Kingdom, the door is wide open, there is light at night, and the whole temple is bright and bright.
The emperor went down to Shao to grant amnesty to the whole world.
At that time, the general Huo Guang was assisting the government, and the emperor was sitting respectfully on the throne. He could not go out to worship except in the ancestral temple.
In the twelfth year, he issued an edict saying: I have heard that the emperor serves heaven and earth devoutly and sacrifices to mountains and rivers, which is a common ritual in ancient and modern times.
In the past, I had not personally offered sacrifices to the temple of God for more than ten years, and I was very scared.
I decided to take the lead in fasting and offering sacrifices in person to pray for good fortune for the people so that they can have a good harvest.
In the first month of the second year, the emperor went to Ganquan Palace to worship Longqi in the suburbs. Good omens appeared several times.
Following the precedent of the timely period, chariots and uniforms flourished, people respectfully performed the etiquette of fasting and shrines, and wrote many poems.
In March of this year, I went to Jiese in person to offer sacrifices to Houtu. There were a gathering of gods and nobles, so I changed the Yuan Dynasty to Sujue.
An edict was issued to Taichang saying: Kensi and Dahai are the largest of all rivers, and no one is going to worship them now.
The ancestral officials are now ordered to make sacrifices an annual event, offering sacrifices to the Yangtze River, the sea, and the Luoshui River in the four seasons to pray for good harvests for the world.
From then on, the Five Mountains and the Four Mountains were often worshiped.
Mount Shuyue and Taishi were worshiped in Bodi, Zhongyue Taishi was worshiped in Songshan, Nanyue Zhishan was worshiped in Qiandi, Xiyue Huashan was worshiped in Huayin, Beiyue Changshan was worshiped in Shangquyang, the Yellow River was worshiped in Linjin, the Yangtze River was worshiped in Jiangdu, the Huai River was worshiped in Pingshi, and the Jishui was worshiped in Linyi. The envoys held talismans to preside over the sacrifices.
Only Mount Tai and the Yellow River have five temples a year, and the rivers have four temples. The rest pray once and offer sacrifices three times.
At that time, Nanjun captured a white tiger and presented its skin, teeth and claws to the court, and the emperor used them to build a temple.
According to the advice of the alchemists, four ancestral halls were built in Weiyang Palace for Suihou, Jianbao, Yubaobi and Zhoukangbaoding.
They also offered sacrifices to Taishi Mountain in Jimo, to Sanhu Mountain in Xiami, and to Tianfengyuan Huojing in Hongmen.
The Jupiter, Chenxing, Venus, Mars and Nandou Temples were also built next to Chang'an City.
They also worshiped Shenshan and the Eight Gods in Qucheng, worshiped the Shishe Shigu in Pengshan in Linqu, worshiped Zhifu Mountain in Zhuang, worshiped Chengshan in Wuye, and worshiped Laishan in Huang.
They worship the sun in Chengshan and the moon in Laishan.
They also offered sacrifices to the Four Seasons in Langye, and to Chiyou in Shouliang.
In Hubei, a nearby county of the capital, there are Laogu, Wudoshan, Sun and Moon, Five Emperors, Biren, and Jade Girl Temples. There is a Jinglu Shrine in Yunyang, which is used to worship King Xiutu.
In Fushi, four temples were built, including the Ziren Temple in Wulong Mountain and the Huangdi Temple, Tianshen Temple, and Diyuanshui Temple.
Some people said that there were gods of golden horses and jade roosters in Yizhou, which could be summoned by sacrifices, so they sent Wang, the admonishing doctor, to pray to the gods while holding amulets wrapped around them.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
大夫刘更生献淮南枕中洪宝、苑秘之方，令尚方铸作。
事不验，更生坐论。
京兆尹张敞上疏谏门： 愿明主时忘车马之好，斥远方士之虚语，游心帝王之术，太平庶几可兴也。
后尚方待诏皆罢。
是时，美阳得鼎，献之。
下有司议，多以为宜荐见宗庙，如元鼎时故事。
张敞好古文字，桉鼎铭勒而上议曰： 臣闻周祖始乎后稷，后稷封于斄，公刘发迹于豳，大王建国于支阝、梁，文、武兴于丰、镐。
由此言之，则支阝、梁、丰、镐之间周旧居也，固宜有宗庙、坛场祭祀之臧。
今鼎出于支阝东，中有刻书曰：王命尸臣 官此栒邑，赐尔旂鸾、黼黻、雕戈。
尸臣拜手稽首曰： 敢对扬天子丕显休命。 臣愚不足以迹古文，窃以传记言之，此鼎殆周之所以褒赐大臣，大臣子孙刻铭其先功，臧之于宫庙也。
昔宝鼎之出于汾脽也，河东太守以闻，诏曰： 朕巡祭后土，祈为百姓蒙丰年，今谷口兼未报，鼎焉为出哉？
博问耆老，意旧藏与，诚欲考得事实也。
有司验脽上非旧臧处，鼎大八尺一寸，高三尺六寸，殊异于众鼎。
今此鼎细小，又有款识，不宜荐见于宗庙。
制曰： 京兆尹议是。
上自幸河东之明年正月，凤凰集礻殳祤，于所集处得玉宝，起步寿宫，乃下诏赦天下。
后间岁，凤凰、神爵、甘露降集京师，赦天下。
其冬，凤凰集上林，乃作凤凰殿，以答嘉瑞。
明年正月复幸甘泉，郊泰畤，改元曰五凤。
明年，幸雍祠五畤。
其明年春，幸河东，祠后土，赦天下。
translation: 
Doctor Liu Gengsheng presented the alchemy from the Dabao Secret Garden in the Huainan Pillow to the emperor, and the emperor ordered Fang to cast it.
Things didn't work out, and Liu Gengsheng was sentenced.
Jingzhao Yin Zhang Chang came to the court and remonstrated: I hope that the Ming Dynasty will not worry about the entertainment of chariots and horses at all times, reject the untrue words of faraway alchemists, and concentrate on the emperor's Taoism. The rule of peace will almost be achieved.
Later, Shang Fang and waiting for imperial edict were all revoked.
At this time, someone got a tripod in Meiyang and presented it to the emperor.
The emperor brought the matter to the relevant officials for discussion, and most of them believed that it should be presented to the ancestral temple, just like the situation during the Yuanding period.
Zhang Chang was fond of ancient writing. After examining the inscriptions on the tripod, he reported his opinions to the emperor and said: I heard that the ancestors of the Zhou Dynasty began in Houji, Houji was granted the title of Ya, Gong Liu started his business in Bindi, the king founded the country in the suburbs of Liang, and civil and military forces arose in Fengdi.
From this aspect, the area between Liang Fenghao in the suburbs was the former residence of the Zhou Dynasty, and there should have been the remains of the ancestral temple mandala for sacrifices.
Now the tripod appears on the facade of Tanliang, with an inscription engraved in the middle: The king ordered the ministers in charge: To manage Gouyi, I will give you banners, luan chariots, 黼黻, and eagles.
The minister in charge knelt down and said: I will try my best to carry forward the sage and good orders for the emperor. , I am too ignorant to find ancient writings, but judging from what is said in the biography, this tripod was probably used by the Zhou Dynasty to praise ministers. The descendants of the ministers inscribed the achievements of their ancestors on the tripod and hid it in the palace and temple.
In the past, the solid tripod appeared on the hills of Fenyin. The governor of Hedong reported it to the emperor, and the emperor issued an edict: I visited the land to offer sacrifices and pray for a good harvest for the people. Now the grain is not abundant and there is no retribution. What is the purpose of the tripod?
I asked the old man extensively whether he had been hiding here before. Really want to examine the reality of it.
Relevant officials checked that the place on the hill was not where it was previously hidden. The tripod was eight feet one inch in size and three feet six inches high, which was very different from other tripods.
Now this tripod is small and has inscriptions on it, so it is not suitable to be presented to the ancestral temple.
The emperor commented: Jing Zhaoyin's suggestion is right.
In the first month of the second year after the emperor arrived in Hedong, phoenixes gathered in Touxu. Where they gathered, they obtained jade and built Bushou Palace, and then issued an edict to pardon the world.
Later, a year later, Phoenix, Shenjue, and Manna descended on the capital and pardoned the world.
In the winter of this year, phoenixes gathered in Shanglin, so the Phoenix Emperor Hall was built to respond to the auspicious omen.
In the first month of the second year, he returned to Ganquan Palace, worshiped Taizhi in the suburbs, and changed his name to Wufeng.
After a year, I went to Yongcheng to worship Wu Zhi.
In the spring of the next year, I went to Hedong to offer sacrifices to Hou Tu and forgive the world.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
后间岁，改元为甘露。
正月，上幸甘泉，郊泰畤。
其夏，黄龙见新丰。
建章、未央、长乐宫钟虚铜人皆生长，长一寸所，时以为美祥。
后间岁正月，上郊泰畤，因朝单于于甘泉宫。
后间岁，改元为黄龙。
正月，复幸甘泉，郊泰畤，又朝单于于甘泉宫。
至冬而崩。
凤凰下郡国凡五十余所。
元帝即位，遵旧仪，间岁正月，一幸甘泉郊泰畤，又东至河东祠后土，西至雍祠五畤。
凡五奉泰畤、后土之祠。
亦施恩泽，时所过毋出田租，赐百户牛、酒，或赐爵，赦罪人。
元帝好儒，贡禹、韦玄成、匡衡等相继为公卿。
禹建言汉家宗庙祭祀多不应古礼，上是其言。
后韦玄成为丞相，议罢郡国庙，自太上皇、孝惠诸园寝庙皆罢。
后元帝寝疾，梦神灵谴罢诸庙祠，上遂复焉。
后或罢或复，至哀、平不定。
语在《韦玄成传》。
成帝初即位，丞相衡、御史大夫谭奏言： 帝王之事莫大乎承天之序，承天之序莫重于郊祀，故圣王尽心极虑以建其制。
祭天于南郊，就阳之义也；瘗地于北郊，即阴之象也。
天之于天子也，因其所都而各飨焉。
往者，孝武皇帝居甘泉宫，即于云阳立泰畤，祭于宫南。
今行常幸长安，郊见皇天，反北之泰阴，祠后土，反东之少阳，事与古制殊。
又至云阳，行溪谷中，厄陕且百里，汾阴则渡大川，有风波舟楫之危，皆非圣主所宜数乘，郡、县治道共张，吏民困苦，百官烦费。
translation: 
After a year, the name was changed to nectar.
In the first month of the first month, the emperor went to Ganquan to worship Taizhi in the suburbs.
This summer, a yellow dragon appeared in Xinfeng.
Hair grew on the wooden frames and bronze figures of the bells hanging in Jianzhang, Weiyang and Changle palaces, more than an inch long, which was considered auspicious at the time.
Later, it was the first month of the year. When the emperor went to the suburbs to pay homage to Thailand, he met Shan Yu at Ganquan Palace.
Later, a year later, the name was changed to Huanglong.
In the first month of the first month, he returned to Ganquan Palace to worship Taizhi in the suburbs, and then received Shanyu's audience in Ganquan Palace.
In the winter the emperor died.
凤凰降到郡国的共有五十多处。
Emperor Yuan ascended the throne and followed the old etiquette. In the first month of every other year, he went to the outskirts of Ganquan Palace to worship Taizhi, then to the east of Hedong to worship Houtu, and to the west to Yongcheng to worship Wuzhi.
A total of five sacrifices were offered to Taishi and Houtu.
They also gave favors. Sometimes they did not have to pay land rent in the places they passed, and they gave cattle and wine to a hundred households, and some gave them titles of nobility. Forgive sinners.
Emperor Yuan liked Confucianism, and Gong Yu, Wei Xuancheng, Kuang Heng and others became ministers one after another.
Gong Yu suggested that most of the sacrifices held in the Mojia ancestral temple were inconsistent with ancient rituals, and the emperor agreed with his opinion.
Later, when Wei Xuan became prime minister, he suggested that the temples of prefectures and states should be abolished, and the sacrifices in the temples of various gardens and dormitories from Emperor Taishang to Emperor Xiaohui should be abolished.
Later, Emperor Yuan fell ill and dreamed that the gods came to condemn him for abolishing various temples, so Emperor Yuan resumed offering sacrifices.
Later, it was abolished and restored, and by the time of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, there was no definite number.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of Wei Xuancheng".
As soon as Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, Prime Minister Kuang Heng and Imperial Censor Zhang Tan reported: "There is no more important matter for an emperor than inheriting the throne from heaven, and nothing is more important than inheriting the throne from heaven than offering sacrifices in the suburbs. Therefore, the holy kings all tried their best to establish the ritual system of offering sacrifices in the suburbs."
Worshiping the sky in the southern suburbs has the meaning of tending to Yang; worshiping the earth in the northern suburbs symbolizes tending to Yin.
To the emperor, heaven means enjoying their respective sacrifices in the place where the emperor has established the capital.
In the past, Emperor Xiaowu lived in Ganquan Palace. When Taiyuan was established in Yunyang, he worshiped in the south of the palace.
Nowadays, when traveling to Chang'an, people often go to Chang'an to offer sacrifices to the emperor. Instead, they go north to the lunar point, and when they offer sacrifices to the earth, they go east to the more yang place. Things are different from the ancient system.
Then we went to Yunyang and walked in the valley. The road was narrow and steep for nearly a hundred miles. When we got to Fenyin, we had to cross a large river. There were dangers of storms and boating. It was not suitable for a wise monarch to do it repeatedly. The counties and counties repaired roads and supplied various utensils. The officials and the people were in hardship, and the officials spent a lot of money.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
劳所保之民，行危险之地，难以奉神灵而祈福祐，殆未合于承天子民之意。
昔者周文、武郊于丰、镐，成王郊于雒邑。
由此观之，天随王者所居而飨之，可见也。
甘泉泰畤、河东后土之祠宜可徙置长安，合于古帝王。
愿与群臣议定。
奏可。
大司马车骑将军许嘉等八人以为：所以从来久远，宜如故。
右将军王商、博士师丹、议郎翟方进等五十人以为：《礼记》曰 燔柴于太坛，祭天也；瘗于大折，祭地也。
兆于南郊，所以定天位也。
祭地于大折，在北郊，就阴位也。
郊外各在圣王所都之南、北。
《书》曰： 越三日丁已，用牲于郊，牛二。
周公加牲，告徙新邑，定郊礼于雒。
明王圣主，事天明，事地察。
天地明察，神明章矣。
天地以王者为主，故圣王制祭天地之礼必于国郊。
长安，圣主之居，皇天所观视也。
甘泉、河东之祠非神灵所飨，宜徙就正阳、大阴之处。
违俗复古，循圣制，定天位，如礼便。
于是衡、谭奏议曰： 陛下圣德，明上通，承天之大典，览群下，使务悉心尽虑，议郊祀之处，天下幸甚。
臣闻广谋从众，则合于天心，故《洪范》曰 三人占，则从二人言 ，言少从多之义也。
论当往古，宜于万民，则依而从之；违道寡与，则废而不行。
今议者五十八人，其五十人言当徙之义，皆著于经传，同于上世，便于吏民；八人不案经艺考古制，而以为不宜，无法之议，难以定吉凶。
《太誓》曰： 正稽古立功立事，可以永年，丕天之大律。
《诗》曰 毋曰高高在上，陟降厥士，日监在兹 ，言天之日监王者之处也。
又曰 乃眷西顾，此维予宅， 言天以文王之都为居也。
宜于长安定南、北郊，为万世基。
天子从之。
translation: 
Making the people you protect work hard, walk in dangerous places, and find it difficult to serve the gods and pray for blessings is probably not in line with the original intention of accepting the destiny of the people and caring for the people.
In the past, King Wen and King Wu of Zhou worshiped in the suburbs of Fenghao, and King Cheng worshiped in the suburbs of Luoyi.
From this point of view, it is obvious that God follows the place where the emperor lives to enjoy the sacrifices.
The sacrifices of Taizhi in Ganquan and Houtu in Hedong should be moved to Chang'an, in line with the ancient emperors.
I hope to discuss it with all the ministers.
His memorial was approved.
Eight people including Xu Jia, the general of the Great Sima Chariot, believed that the ritual had a long history and should be the same as before.
Fifty people including Right General Wang Shang, Doctor Shidan, and Yilang Zhai Fangjin believed that the "Book of Rites" said that burning firewood in the Taitan Temple was a sacrifice to heaven; burying bamboo ropes and animals in Taizhe was a sacrifice to the earth.
The boundary of the altar is in the southern suburbs and is used to determine the heavenly position.
The place of sacrifice in Taizhe is in the northern suburbs, close to the Yin position.
The locations of the suburban sacrifices were on the north and south sides of the capital established by the Holy King.
"Book" says: Three days later, Ding Si said, there were two cows in the suburbs for sacrifice.
Duke Zhou increased the number of sacrifices, reported the move to the new capital, and established suburban rites in Luoyang.
Ming King and Holy Lord, serve heaven clearly and serve the earth carefully.
If heaven and earth can be treated carefully and clearly, gods will appear.
The heaven and earth are dominated by the emperor, so the rituals formulated by the holy kings to offer sacrifices to the heaven and earth must be on the outskirts of the capital.
Chang'an is where the Holy King lives, and Huang Tian wants to come to inspect it.
The sacrifices in Ganquan and Hedong are not for the gods to enjoy. They should be moved to places close to Zhengyang and Dayin.
The emperor should go against customs and restore the ancient system, follow the holy system, determine the heavenly throne, and follow appropriate etiquette.
So Kuang Heng and Zhang Tan reported their suggestions: Your Majesty has extraordinary morals, sharp ears and eyesight. He reaches the emperor of heaven, inherits the grandeur of heaven, and controls the people below. He makes everyone put their best efforts into discussing the place for suburban worship. The people of the world are very lucky.
I heard that if you consult widely with everyone, you will be in line with the will of God. Therefore, "Hong Fan" said that if three people are divination, they should listen to what they say, which means that the minority obeys the majority.
It is said that we should go back to ancient times to make it convenient for all people, so we should follow them; if it violates the rules and only a few people agree with it, we should abandon it and not adopt it.
There are fifty-eight people discussing the matter now, and fifty of them stated the meaning of the migration, which was written in scriptures and biographies, as in ancient times, for the convenience of officials and people. Eight people did not examine the scriptures, arts, and ancient systems, and thought it was inappropriate. Without legal discussion, it is difficult to determine good or bad luck.
"Tai Shi" says: If you correctly examine the ancient ways and act accordingly, you can maintain the world for a long time. This is the law of serving God.
"Poetry" says: Don't think that God is high above. It can rise and fall. It says to monitor this place, which means that God monitors the place where the emperor is every day.
He also said, "Looking back to the west, the place where I was created is." This means that God has made King Wen's capital city his residence.
The places to hold sacrifices in the northern and southern suburbs of Chang'an should be determined as the base for all generations.
The emperor listened to their advice.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
既定，衡言： 甘泉泰畤紫坛，八觚宣通象八方。
五帝坛周环其下，又有群神之坛。
以《尚书》禋六宗、望山川、遍群神之义，紫坛有文章、采镂、黼黻之饰及玉、女乐，石坛、仙人祠，瘗鸾路、骍驹、寓龙马，不能得其象于古。
臣闻郊柴飨帝之义，埽地而祭，上质也。
歌大吕舞《云门》以俟天神，歌太蔟舞《咸池》以俟地祇，其牲用犊，其席槁稽，其器陶匏，皆因天地之性，贵诚上质，不敢修其文也。
以为神祇功德至大，虽修精微而备庶物，犹不足以报功，唯至诚为可，故上质不饰，以章天德。
紫坛伪饰女乐、鸾路、骍驹、龙马、石坛之属，宜皆勿修。
衡又言： 王者各以其礼制事天地，非因异世所立而继之。
今雍鄜、密、上、下畤，本秦侯各以其意所立，非礼之所载术也。
汉兴之初，仪制未及定，即且因秦故祠，复立北畤。
今既稽古，建定天地之大礼，郊见上帝，青、赤、白、黄、黑五方之帝皆毕陈，各有位馔，祭祀备具。
诸侯所妄造，王者不当长遵。
及北畤，未定时所立，不宜复修。
天子皆从焉。
及陈宝祠，由是皆罢。
明年，上始祀南郊，赦奉郊之县及中都官耐罪囚徒。
是岁，衡、谭复条奏： 长安厨官、县官给祠，郡国候神方士使者所祠，凡六百八十三所，其二百八所应礼及疑无明文，可奉祠如故。
其余四百七十五所不应礼，或复重，请皆罢。
奏可。
本雍旧祠二百三所，唯山川诸星十五所为应礼云。
若诸布、诸严、诸逐，皆罢。
杜主有五祠，置其一。
translation: 
After the matter was confirmed, Kuang Heng said: The purple altar of Ganquan Taishi has all the eight anisees connected to symbolize the eight directions.
The altars of the Five Emperors surround it, as well as the altars of the gods.
According to "Shangshu", the six sects are worshiped and the mountain is worshiped! In order to worship all the gods, the purple altar must have patterns, colorful carvings, and furry decorations, as well as jade articles, female musicians, stone altars, immortal temples, 阗鸾 governs, post horses, puppets, dragons and horses. Their shapes cannot be obtained from ancient systems.
I have heard about the significance of burning firewood in suburban rituals to worship the Emperor of Heaven. Sweeping the floor to offer sacrifices is a sign of advocating simplicity.
Singing Daru and dancing "Cloud Gate" to wait for the God of Heaven, singing Tai Ku and dancing "Xianchi" to wait for the God of Earth. The animals used for sacrifice are calves, the mats are made of straw, and the utensils are pottery. All of them are in accordance with the nature of heaven and earth, sincerity is valued, simplicity is the highest, and they dare not embellish literary talent.
He believes that the merits of God are so great that even if he decorates them in subtle ways and prepares all things, it is not enough to repay the merits. Only sincerity will do, so he advocates simplicity and no modifications to demonstrate his heavenly virtue.
The purple altar's artificial decorations, female music, luan, chariot, dragon and horse, stone altar, etc. should not be repaired.
Kuang Heng also said: The emperors each served heaven and earth with their own rituals, rather than inheriting them according to those established in different eras.
Now Yong's Yong, Mi, Shangzhi, and Xiazhi were originally established by the Qin princes according to their own ideas, and were not the methods stated in the rituals.
At the beginning of the establishment of the Han Dynasty, there was no time to determine the ritual system. For the time being, Beizhi was re-established based on the old ancestral temples of the Qin Dynasty.
Now that the ancient system has been investigated, the great ceremony of offering sacrifices to heaven and earth has been formulated, and the emperors of the five directions of green, red, white, yellow, and black are all displayed, each has its own place for worship, and the sacrificial supplies are complete.
What the princes build on their own initiative should not be followed by the emperor for a long time.
As for the Northern Time, if there are no regular sacrifices to the temple established, it should not be renovated.
The emperor obeyed.
As for Chen Bao Temple, it has since been removed.
In the second year, the emperor began to offer sacrifices to the southern suburbs, and pardoned the prisoners who had their sideburns shaved off for minor crimes in the counties where the suburbs were held and in the various government offices in the capital.
This year, Kuang Heng and Zhang Tan re-divided the memorial and said: Chang'an's kitchen officials and county officials provided sacrifices to the alchemists and envoys of the county to welcome the gods. There are 683 places, of which 208 are for sacrifice. As for those who suspect that there is no clear text, they can worship the temple as before.
The remaining four hundred and seventy-five places were not suitable for sacrifice, and some were repeated, so we requested that they be abolished.
The petition was approved.
There were originally 203 old temples in Yongdi, but only 15 places dedicated to mountains, rivers and stars.
As for all the cloths, all the strictnesses, and all the bans, they are all abolished.
Lord Du has five temples, one of which is set up.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
又罢高祖所立梁、晋、秦、荆巫、九天、南山、秦中之属，及孝文渭阳、孝武薄忌泰一、三一、黄帝、冥羊、马行、泰一、皋山山君、武夷、夏后启母石、万里沙、八神、延年之属，及孝宣参山、蓬山、之罘、成山、莱山、四时、蚩尤、劳谷、五床、仙人、玉女、径路、黄帝、天神、原水之属，皆罢。
候神方士使者副佐、本草待诏七十余人皆归家。
明年，匡衡坐事免官爵。
众庶多言不当变动祭祀者。
又初罢甘泉泰畤作南郊日，大风坏甘泉竹宫，折拔畤中树木十围以上百余。
天子异之，以问刘向。
对曰： 家人尚不欲绝种祠，况于国之神宝旧畤！
且甘泉、汾阴及雍五畤始立，皆有神祇感应，然后营之，非苟而已也。
武、宣之世，奉此三神，礼敬敕备，神光尤著。
祖宗所立神祇旧位，诚未易动。
及陈宝祠，自秦文公至今七百余岁矣，汉兴世世常来，光赤黄，长四五丈，直祠而息，音声砰隐，野鸡皆雊。
每见雍太祝祠以太牢，遣候者乘传驰诣行在所，以为福祥。
高祖时五来，文帝二十六来，武帝七十五来，宣帝二十五年，初元元年以来亦二十来，此阳气旧祠也。
及汉宗庙之礼，不得擅议，皆祖宗之君与贤臣所共定。
古今异制，经无明文，至尊至重，难以疑说正也。
前始纳贡禹之议，后人相因，多所动援。
《易大传》曰： 诬神者殃及三世。
恐其咎不独止禹等。
上意恨之。
后上以无继嗣故，令皇太后诏有司曰： 盖闻王者承事天地，交接泰一，尊莫著于祭祀。
孝武皇帝大圣通明，始建上下之祀，营泰畤于甘泉，定后土于汾阴，而神祇安之，飨国长久，子孙蕃滋，累世遵业，福流于今。
今皇帝宽仁孝顺，奉循圣绪，靡有大愆，而久无继嗣。
思其咎职，殆在徙南、北郊，违先帝之制，改神祇旧位，失天地之心，以妨继嗣之福。
translation: 
He also abolished the wizards, Jiutian, Nanshan, Laizhong, etc. of Liang, Jin, Qin, and Jingdi established by Emperor Gaozu, as well as Weiyang of Emperor Xiaowen: Taiyi, Sanyi, Huangdi, Mingyang, Maxing, Taiyi, Gaoshanshanjun, Wuyi, and Xia of Emperor Xiaowu Boji. Houqi Mushi, Wanlisha, Eight Gods, Yannian, etc., as well as Emperor Xiaoxuan's Shenshan, Pengshan, Zhifu, Chengshan, Laishan, Four Seasons, Chiyou, Laogu, Wubang, Liren, Jade Girl, Jinglu, Huangdi, Tianshen, Yuanshui, etc., are all abolished.
The alchemists, envoys, assistants, and more than seventy people who were waiting for the gods were sent home with prescriptions and herbs.
The next year, Kuang Heng broke the law and was removed from his official position and title.
Most people said that the sacrifices should not be changed.
In addition, when the sacrifice ceremony in the southern suburbs of Taizhi in Ganquan was canceled, the strong wind destroyed the bamboo palace in Ganquan and broke and uprooted more than a hundred trees in the sacrifice area that were more than ten meters thick.
The emperor felt strange about this and asked Liu Xiang.
Liu Xiang replied: Common people don't want to cut off the ancestral temple passed down by their heirs, let alone the ancient sacred treasure of the country!
Moreover, the five pillars of Ganquan, Fenyin and Yongcheng have just been established, and they are all inspired by the gods, and then they are taken care of, not just perfunctory.
During the reigns of Emperor Wu and Emperor Xuan, these three gods were worshiped with complete etiquette and respect, and the brilliance of the gods was particularly remarkable.
The old positions of gods established by our ancestors cannot be easily changed.
As for the Chen Shi Temple, it has been more than 700 years since Qin Wengong, and descendants of the Han Dynasty have been here since its establishment. It is red-yellow in color and four to five feet long. It does not stop until the sacrifices are made. The sound is loud and the pheasants are crowing.
Every time I see Taizhu of Yongcheng using Tailao to offer sacrifices and sending greeting people in a stage carriage to the place where the emperor is to report the arrival of the gods, I regard it as auspicious.
We came five times during the reign of Emperor Gaozu, twenty-six times during the reign of Emperor Wen, seventy-five times during the reign of Emperor Wu, twenty-five times during the reign of Emperor Xuan, and twenty times since the first year of Chu Yuan. These are all old temples of Yang Qi.
As for the etiquette of the ancestral temples of the Han Dynasty, no one is allowed to discuss it without authorization. It was jointly established by the ancestors' monarchs and wise ministers.
The systems of ancient times and modern times are different, and there is no clear record in the scriptures. It is difficult to correct things that are supreme and important with uncertain statements.
Not long ago, Gong Yu's suggestion was adopted. Later people followed each other's example, and most of them wavered.
"Yi Da Zhuan" says: Those who deceive the gods will suffer disaster for three generations.
I'm afraid these mistakes are not limited to Gong Yu and others.
The emperor felt regret in his heart.
Later, because the emperor had no heirs, he ordered the empress dowager to issue an edict to the relevant officials: I heard that the emperor serves the heaven and the earth, and that there is no better way to respect the gods than to offer sacrifices.
Emperor Xiaowu was wise and wise, and began to establish the sacrifices of heaven and earth, built a platform in Ganquan, and established Houtu in Fenyin. The gods felt stable, the country was long-lasting, the descendants multiplied and prospered, and the ancestral inheritance was observed from generation to generation. The blessings have been passed down to the present.
Now the emperor is generous, kind, filial, and follows the emperor's rule. He has no major faults, but he has not had an heir for a long time.
Thinking about its main fault, it is probably that it moved the temples to the northern and southern suburbs, violated the system of the late emperor, changed the old position of the gods, lost the original intention of heaven and earth, and hindered the blessings of his successors.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
春秋六十，未见皇孙，食不甘味，寝不安席，朕甚悼焉。
《春秋》大复古，善顺祀。
其复甘泉泰畤、汾阴后土如故，及雍五畤、陈宝祠在陈仓者。
天子复亲郊礼如前。
又复长安、雍及郡国祠著明者且半。
成帝末年颇好鬼神，亦以无继嗣故，多上书言祭祀方术者，皆得待诏，祠祭上林苑中长安城旁，费用甚多，然无大贵盛者。
谷永说上曰： 臣闻：明于天地之性，不可或以神怪；知万物之情，不可罔以非类。
诸背仁义之正道，不遵之法言，而盛称奇怪鬼神，广崇祭祀之方，求报无福之祠，及言世有仙人，服食不终之药，遥兴轻举，登遐倒景，览观县圃，浮游蓬莱，耕耘五德，朝种暮获，与山石无极，黄冶变化，坚冰淖溺，化色五仓之术者，皆奸人惑众，挟左道，怀诈伪，以欺罔世主。
听其言，洋洋满耳，若将可遇；求之，荡荡如系风捕景，终不可得。
是以明王距而不听，圣人绝而不语。
昔周史苌弘欲以鬼神之术辅尊灵王会朝诸侯，而周愈微，诸侯愈叛。
楚怀王隆祭祀，事鬼神，欲以获福助，却秦师，而兵挫地削，身辱国危。
秦始皇初并天下，甘心于神仙之道，遣徐福、韩终之属多赍童男童女入海求神、采药，因逃不还，天下怨恨。
汉兴，新垣平、齐人少翁、公孙卿、栾大等，皆以仙人黄冶、祭祠、事鬼使物、入海求神、采药贵幸，赏赐累千金。
大尤尊盛，至妻公主，爵位重累，震动海内。
元鼎、元封之际，燕、齐之间方士瞋目扼腕，言有神仙、祭。致福之术者以万数。
其后，平等皆以术穷诈得，诛夷伏辜。
至初无中，有天渊玉女、巨鹿神人、轑阳侯师张宗之奸，纷纷复起。
夫周、秦之末，三五之隆，已尝专意散财，厚爵禄，竦精神，举天下以求之矣。
旷日经年，靡有毫厘之验，足以揆今。
《经》曰： 享多仪，仪不及物，惟曰不享。 《论语》说曰： 子不语怪神。 唯陛下距绝此类，毋令奸人有以窥朝者。
上善其言。
后成都侯王商为大司马卫将军辅政，杜鄴说商曰： 东邻杀牛，不如西邻之瀹祭 ，言奉天之道，贵以诚质大得民心也。
行秽祀丰，犹不蒙祐；德修荐薄，吉必大来。
古者坛场有常处，燎禋有常用，赞见有常礼；牺牲玉帛虽备而财不匮，车舆臣役虽动而用不劳。
translation: 
I am sixty years old and have yet to see any royal grandson. I cannot eat to my taste and cannot sleep well. I feel very sad.
"Spring and Autumn" regards restoring ancient times as great and adapting to sacrifice as good.
Taishi in Ganquan Palace and Houtu in Fenyin were restored as before, as well as Wuzhi in Yongcheng and Chen Bao Temple in Chencang.
The emperor once again held the ritual of suburban sacrifice in person as before.
Nearly half of the more famous ancestral temples in Chang'an, Yongcheng and other counties were restored.
In his later years, Emperor Cheng was very fond of ghosts and gods, and because he had no heirs, many people who wrote letters to talk about sacrifices and alchemy were given official positions awaiting imperial edicts. They spent a lot of money on sacrifices in Shanglin Garden next to Chang'an City, but there was no obvious effect.
Gu Yong persuaded the emperor: I heard that if you want to understand the nature of heaven and earth, you must not be deceived by gods and monsters; if you want to know the nature of all things, you must not be deceived by different types.
Those who have abandoned the right path of benevolence and righteousness and do not abide by the laws of the "Five Classics" have praised strange ghosts and gods, widely advocated the magic of sacrificial rituals, and prayed for no blessings in return. As for the immortals in the world who take the prescription of immortality, they can travel to very far places with a slight movement, and can reflect and look at high places. County gardens, floating in Penglai, cultivating the five virtues, sowing in the morning and harvesting in the evening, as endless as mountains and rocks. Those who smelt Dansha and change it to make gold, melt solid ice, and obtain the magic of five colors and five warehouses are all evil people who deceive everyone, rely on evil ways, harbor hypocrisy, and deceive the monarch.
Listening to them talking, they talk endlessly, as if they are about to meet an immortal; going to visit the immortal is as empty as catching a shadow in the wind, and never can find it.
Therefore, wise monarchs stay away from them and do not listen to their words, and sages reject them and do not talk about them.
In the past, Chang Hong, the historian of the Zhou Dynasty, wanted to use ghosts and gods to assist the princes in court to respect King Zhou Ling, but the Zhou Dynasty became weaker and the princes became more rebellious.
King Huai of Chu held a grand ceremony to worship ghosts and gods, hoping to get help from the gods to repel the Qin army. However, the army was defeated and the country was in danger.
As soon as Qin Shihuang began to annex the world, he became obsessed with the affairs of gods. He sent Xu Fu, Han Zhong and others to take many boys and girls to the sea to seek gods and take elixirs. Because they did not come back after escaping, the world was resentful.
After the founding of the Han Dynasty, Xinyuan Ping, Qi Shaoweng, Gongsun Qing, Leda and others all gained favor and wealth by relying on immortals, smelting gold, offering sacrifices, serving ghosts and gods, nurturing all things, going to the sea to seek gods and immortals, and collecting fairy medicine, and were favored and rich, with rewards reaching thousands of gold.
Leda was especially favored, so much so that he married a princess and received one title after another, which shocked the whole country.
During the years of Yuanding and Yuanfeng, the alchemists between Yan and Qi were furious, and tens of thousands of people said that there was a way for gods to bring blessings through sacrifices.
After that, Aragaki and others were all killed because their Taoist skills were exhausted and their deceit was exposed.
In the early Yuan Dynasty, the treachery of Tianyuan Jade Girl, Julu Shenren, and Zhang Zong, the teacher of Li Yanghou, all rose again.
At the end of the Zhou and Qin Dynasties, when the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors were prosperous, they spent money specifically to increase their titles and salaries, and to cheer up, people from all over the world came to get them.
It took many years, but nothing came true, which is enough to serve as a reference for today.
The scriptures say: There are many kinds of rituals in sacrifices, and they do not involve gifts. They are just as if they are not enjoyed by the gods. The Analects of Confucius says: Wang Yu does not talk about weirdness and gods. I hope that your majesty will stay away from these things and not allow evil people to have a chance to spy on the court.
The emperor thought Gu Yong was right.
Later, Wang Shang, the Marquis of Chengdu, was appointed as the assistant general of Sima Wei in political affairs. Du Ye persuaded Wang Shang: It is better to sacrifice cattle to the east neighbors than to use soup and vegetables to sacrifice to the west neighbors. This means that the way to serve God is to win the hearts of the people by being honest and simple.
If you behave improperly, you will not receive blessings even if you offer abundant sacrifices; if you behave virtuously, even if your offerings are meager, good fortune will surely come on a large scale.
In ancient times, the mandala had a fixed place, the burning wood had a fixed use for the sacrifices, and there were fixed etiquette. Even if all the sacrifices and treasures were available, the state's property would not be lacking, and the ministers of chariots and horses would not be tired even if they used them.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
是故每举其礼，助者欢说，大路所历，黎元不知。
今甘泉、河东天地郊祀、咸失方位，违阴阳之宜。
及雍五畤皆旷远，奉尊之役，休而复起，缮治共张，无解已时，皇天著象，殆可略知。
前上甘泉，先驱失道；礼月之夕，奉引复迷。
祠后土还，临河当渡，疾风起波，船不可御。
又雍大雨，坏平阳宫垣。
乃三月甲子，震电灾林光宫门。
祥瑞未著，咎征仍臻。
迹三郡所奏，皆有变故。
不答不飨，何以甚比！
《诗》曰 率由旧章 。
旧章，先王法度，文王以之，交神于祀，子孙千亿。
宜如异时公卿之议，复还长安南、北郊。
后数年，成帝崩，皇太后诏有司曰： 皇帝即位，思顺天心，遵经义，定郊礼，天下说憙。
惧未有皇孙，故复甘泉泰畤、汾阴后土，庶几获福。
皇帝恨难之，卒未得其祐。
其复南、北郊长安如故，以顺皇帝之意也。
哀帝即位，寝疾，博征方术士，京师诸县皆有侍祠使者，尽复前世所常兴诸神祠官，凡七百余所，一岁三万七千祠云。
明年，夏令太皇太后诏有司曰： 皇帝孝顺，奉承圣业，靡有解怠，而久疾未瘳。
夙夜唯思，殆继体之君不宜改作。
其复甘泉泰畤、汾阴后土祠如故。
上亦不能亲至，遣有司行事而礼祠焉。
后三年，哀帝崩。
平帝元始五年，大司马王莽奏言： 王者父事天，故爵称天子。
孔子曰： 人之行莫大于孝，孝莫大于严父，严父莫大于配天。
王者尊其考，欲以配天，缘考之意，欲尊祖，推而上之，遂及始祖。
translation: 
Therefore, every time a sacrifice is held, the assistants feel happy, and the people do not know where the emperor's car passes.
Now the suburbs of Ganquan and Hedong Tiandi have lost their orientation and violated the harmony of yin and yang.
In addition, the five seasons of Yongcheng are vast and vast. The labor service to the gods has resumed after the end. There is no end to the repair and supply of various utensils. The obvious shape of the emperor can be roughly understood.
When I arrived at Ganquan not long ago, the people who led the way lost their way; on the evening of the moon sacrifice day, the people who led the carriages and horses in front lost their way again.
On the way back after offering sacrifices, when it was time to cross the Yellow River, strong winds stirred up waves, making it impossible for the boat to move.
Another heavy rain hit Yongcheng and destroyed the walls of Pingyang Palace.
So on the Jiazi day of March, thunder and lightning caused the door of Linguang Palace to catch fire.
When the auspicious omens do not appear, the omens of fault arrive.
After inspecting the reports from the three counties, there were all changes.
It is not in line with God's will and not for God's enjoyment. What can be more outrageous than this!
"Poetry" says: Follow the old rules.
The old regulations are the laws of the previous kings. King Wen used them to sacrifice to the gods, and his descendants numbered hundreds of billions.
We should go to the northern and southern suburbs of Chang'an to offer sacrifices, as the old ministers had agreed.
A few years later, when Emperor Cheng died, the Empress Dowager went down to Shao and told the relevant officials: When the emperor ascended the throne, he wanted to obey God's will, follow the scriptures, establish rural etiquette, and make the world happy.
Worried about not having an imperial grandson, Taishi and Fenyin's Houshang, who restored the sweet spring, almost got their reward.
The emperor regretted that the sacrifice was too difficult and he finally did not receive blessings.
He ordered the restoration of sacrifices in the northern and southern suburbs of Chang'an as before, in order to comply with the emperor's wishes.
When Emperor Ai ascended the throne and was ill, he extensively recruited alchemists. Each county in the capital had envoys to serve the gods, and fully restored the ancestral halls that used to worship various gods in the previous dynasties. There were more than 700 temples in total, and 37,000 sacrifices were performed a year.
The next year, the Empress Dowager was ordered to issue an edict to the relevant officials again: The emperor is filial, inherits the achievements of the saints, and does not slack off, but he has been ill for a long time.
I worry sooner or later that the monarch who inherited the system may not be suitable for reform and construction.
Taishi and Fenyin's Houtu Temple were restored to their former appearance.
The emperor could not go there in person, so he sent relevant officials to perform rituals and sacrifices.
Three years later, Emperor Ai died.
In the fifth year of Emperor Ping's reign, Grand Sima Wang Mang reported: The emperor serves the Emperor of Heaven as he serves his father, so the emperor's title is the Son of Heaven.
Confucius said: There is no greater behavior than filial piety; there is no greater filial piety than respect for one’s father; there is no greater respect for one’s father than to honor one’s ancestors when offering sacrifices to heaven.
The emperor respected his ancestors, intending to be worthy of heaven, and the original intention of climbing up to his ancestors was to respect his ancestors. By extrapolating upward, he touched the first ancestor.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
是以周公郊祀后稷以配天，宗祀文王于明堂以配上帝。
《礼记》：天子祭天地及山川，岁遍。
《春秋穀梁传》以十二月下辛卜。正月上辛郊。
高皇帝受命，因雍四畤起北畤，而备五帝。未共天地之祀。
孝文十六年用新垣平初起渭阳五帝庙，祭泰一、地祇，以太祖高皇帝配。
日冬至祠泰一，夏至祠地祇，皆并祠五帝，而共一牲，上亲郊拜。
后平伏诛，乃不复自亲，而使有司行事。
孝武皇帝祠雍，曰： 今上帝朕亲郊，而后土无祠，则礼不答也。 于是元鼎四年十一月甲子始立后土祠于汾阴。
或曰，五帝，泰一之佐，宜立泰一。
五年十一月癸未始立泰一祠于甘泉，二岁一郊，与雍更祠，亦以高祖配，不岁事天，皆未应古制。
建始元年，徙甘泉泰畤、河东后土于长安南北郊。
永始元年三月，以未有皇孙，复甘泉、河东祠。
绥和二年，以卒不获祐，复长安南、北郊。
建平三年，惧孝哀皇帝之疾未瘳，复甘泉、汾阴祠，竟复无福。
臣谨与太师孔光、长乐少府平晏、大司农左咸、中垒校尉刘歆、太中大夫朱阳、博士薛顺、议郎国由等六十七人议，皆曰宜如建始时丞相衡等议，复长安南、北郊如故。
莽又颇改其祭礼，曰： 《周官》天地之祀，乐有别有合。
其合乐曰 以六律、六钟、五声、八音、六舞大合乐 ，祀天神，祭地祇；祀四望，祭山川，享先妣先祖。
凡六乐，奏六歌，而天地神祇之物皆至。
四望，盖谓日、月、星、海也。
translation: 
Therefore, Zhou Gong worshiped Hou Ji in the suburbs to bring virtue to heaven, and worshiped King Wen in the Mingtang to bring virtue to heaven.
"Souji" records that the emperor offered sacrifices to heaven, earth, mountains and rivers once a year.
"Spring and Autumn Guliang Zhuan" predicts the day of Jiao Si in the lower Xin of the twelfth lunar month, and predicts the date of Jiao Si in the first lunar month.
Emperor Gao accepted the mandate of heaven and built Beishi according to the four pillars of Yongcheng, thereby equipping the five emperors and not respecting the sacrifices of heaven and earth.
In the 16th year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, he used Xinyuanping and began to build the Five Emperors Temple in Weiyang to worship Taiyi and the God of Earth, and to share it with Emperor Taizu Gao.
During the winter solstice, sacrifices were made to Taiyi, and during the summer solstice, sacrifices were made to the gods of the earth. They were all sacrificed to the five emperors, with a common sacrifice, and the emperor personally worshiped in the countryside.
Later, Niiguanping was executed, and the emperor no longer went there in person, but sent relevant officials to handle the matter.
Emperor Xiaowu offered sacrifices to Yongdi and said: Now God, I personally went to the suburbs to offer sacrifices, but Houtu did not offer sacrifices. This was not in line with etiquette. So in November of the fourth year of Yuanding, Jiazi began to build the Houtu Temple in Fenyin.
Some people say that the Five Emperors were Taiyi's auxiliary ministers and it was appropriate to build a Taiyi Temple.
In the eleventh month of the fifth year of Guiwei, the Taiyi Temple was built in Ganquan. The sacrifices were held once every two years in the suburbs, alternating with the sacrifices in Yongcheng, and shared by Gaozu. They did not offer sacrifices to heaven every year, which did not correspond to the ancient ritual system.
In the first year of Jianshi, Taishi from Ganquan and Houshang from Hedong were moved to the northern and southern suburbs of Chang'an.
In March of the first year of Yongshi, because there were no imperial grandsons, sacrifices were held at Ganquan and Hedong.
In the second year of Suihe, because he was not blessed in the end, another ceremony was held in the northern suburbs of Chang'an.
In the third year of Jianping, fearing that Emperor Xiaoai's illness would not recover, the temples in Ganquan and Fenyin were restored, but there was still no blessing after they were all restored.
The minister carefully discussed with a total of sixty-seven people including Taishi Kong Guang, Changle Shaofu Pingyan, Dasi Nong Zuo Xian, Zhongbao Colonel Liu Xin, Taizhong Doctor Zhu Yang, Doctor Xue Shun, Yilang Guoyou, etc. They all believed that the northern and southern suburbs of Chang'an should be restored to their previous appearance in accordance with the suggestions of Prime Minister Kuang Heng and others at the beginning of the proposal.
Wang Mang also changed a lot of sacrificial rituals. He said: "Zhou Guan" talks about the sacrifices of heaven and earth, and the music is different and coordinated.
The matching music uses six rhythms, six bells, five tones, eight tones, and six dances to coordinate the sacrificial music on a large scale, offering sacrifices to the gods of heaven, gods of earth, the four directions, and mountains, so that the descendants and ancestors can enjoy the sacrifices.
There are six kinds of music. Play six songs, then the gods of heaven and earth will come.
Look around, probably the sun, moon, stars, and sea.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
三光高而不可得亲，海广大无限界，故其乐同。
祀天则天文从，祭地则地理从。
三光，天文也；山川，地理也。
天地合祭，先祖配天，先妣配地，其谊一也。
天地合精，夫妇判合。
祭天南郊，则以地配，一体之谊也。
天地位皆南乡，同席，地在东，共牢而食。
高帝、高后配于坛上，西乡，后在北，亦同席共牢。
牲用茧栗，玄酒陶匏。
《礼记》曰天子籍田千亩以事天地，繇是言之，宜有黍、稷。
天地用牲一，燔燎，瘗薶用牲一，高帝、高后用牲一。
天用牲左，及黍、稷燔燎南郊；地用牲右，及黍、稷瘗于北郊。
其旦，东乡再拜朝日；其夕，西乡再拜夕月。
然后孝弟之道备，而神祇嘉享，万福降辑。
此天地合祀，以祖、妣配者也。
其别乐曰 冬日至，于地上之圜丘奏乐六变，则天神皆降；夏日至，于泽中之方丘奏乐八变，则地祇皆出。 天地有常位，不得常合，此其各特祀者也。
阴阳之别于日冬、夏至；其会也，以孟春正月上辛若丁，天子亲合祀天地于南郊，以高帝、高后配。
阴阳有离合，《易》曰 分阴分阳，迭用柔刚 。
以日冬至使有司奉祠南郊，高帝配而望群阳；日夏至使有司奉祭北郊，高后配而望群阳。皆以助致微气，通道幽弱。
当此之时，后不省方，故天子不亲而遣有司，所以正承天顺地，复圣王之制，显太祖之功也。
渭阳祠勿复修。
群望未悉定，定复奏。
奏可。
三十余年间，天地之祠五徙焉。
后莽又奏言： 《书》曰 类于上帝，禋于六宗 。
translation: 
The three lights of the sun, moon and stars are high and far away, so they cannot be worshiped in person. The sea is vast and has no boundaries, so its music is the same.
If you offer sacrifices to the sky, then the astronomy will follow, and if you offer sacrifices to the place, then the geography will follow.
The three lights are astronomy. Mountains and rivers are geography.
When heaven and earth are worshiped together, ancestors are used to enjoy heaven, and descendants are used to enjoy the earth. The meanings are the same.
Heaven and earth become one, and husband and wife cooperate.
To worship heaven in the southern suburbs is to use land to enjoy it, which has the same meaning.
The positions of the heaven and the earth are facing south, sharing the same table, and the earth is facing the east, sharing the sacrifices and eating together.
Emperor Gao and Empress Gao shared the sacrifices on the altar, facing west, while Empress Gao shared the sacrifices at the same table to the north.
A calf is sacrificed. Use pottery to hold Xuanjiu.
"Book of Rites" says that the emperor used a thousand acres of land to serve heaven and earth. From this aspect, it should be millet.
One animal was sacrificed to heaven and earth, one animal was used to burn firewood, bury animals in bamboo baskets, and be sacrificed to earth, and one animal was used to sacrifice to Emperor Gao and Queen Gao.
Heaven ate the left side of the sacrifice, as well as the millet and millet, and burned firewood in the southern suburbs; the earth ate the right side of the sacrifice, and the millet and millet, and tied up the basket in the northern suburbs.
In the morning, worship the rising sun twice to the east; in the evening, worship the late moon twice to the west.
After this, the morality of filial piety and brotherhood will be in place, and the gods will enjoy it well, and great blessings will come to them.
Creation is the way in which heaven and earth are worshiped together and shared among ancestors and heirs.
The different kinds of music are: when winter comes, play six kinds of music on the round hill on the ground, then the gods will come; when summer comes, play eight kinds of music on the square hill in the lake, then the earth gods will appear. The heaven and the earth have fixed positions and do not often meet in one place. This is the place where they each need special sacrifices.
The difference between yin and yang lies in the winter solstice and summer solstice of the sun, and their meeting occurs on the first lunar month of Mengchun. The emperor personally worshiped heaven and earth together in the southern suburbs, sharing them with the emperor and empress.
Yin and Yang have separation and combination. The Book of Changes says that when Yin and Yang are separated, softness and hardness are used in conjunction with each other.
During the winter solstice of the sun, relevant officials are sent to the southern suburbs to worship the ancestral temple, and the emperor is used to enjoy and worship the yang. During the summer solstice, relevant officials are sent to the suburbs to offer sacrifices.
At such a time, the monarch ignored the regular affairs, so the emperor did not go there in person but sent relevant officials to deal with it. This was to ensure that heaven and earth obeyed, restored the system of the holy king, and honored the great ancestor.
The Weiyang Temple should not be rebuilt.
The Gewang Festival has not yet been completely determined and will be played after it is determined.
The petition was approved.
In more than thirty years, the temples of heaven and earth moved five times.
Later, Wang Mang reported again: "The Book" says that human beings offer sacrifices to heaven and six sects worship here.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
欧阳、大、小夏侯三家说六宗，皆曰上不及天，下不及地，旁不及四方，在六者之间，助阴阳变化，实一而名六，名实不相应。
《礼记》祀典，功施于民则祀之。
天文：日、月、星、辰，所昭仰也；地理：山、川、海、泽，所生殖也。
《易》有八卦， 乾 、 坤 六子，水火不相逮，雷风不相誖，山泽通气，然后能变化，既成万物也。
臣前奏徙甘泉泰畤、汾阴后土皆复于南、北郊。
谨案《周官》 兆五帝于四郊 ，山川各因其方，今五帝兆居在雍五畤，不合于古。
又日、月、雷、风、山、泽，《易》卦六子之尊气，所谓六宗也。
星、辰、水、火、沟、渎，皆六完之属也。今或未特祀，或无兆居。
谨与太师光、大司徒宫、羲和歆等八十九人议，皆曰：天子父事天，母事地。今称天神曰皇天上帝，泰一兆曰泰畤，而称地祇曰后土，与中央黄灵同，又兆北郊，未有尊称。
宜令地祇称皇地后祇，兆曰广畤。
《易》曰 方以类聚，物以群分 。
分群神以类相从为五部，兆天地之别神：中央帝黄灵后土畤及日庙、北辰、北斗、填星、中宿中宫于长安城之未地兆；东方帝太昊青灵勾芒畤及雷公、风伯庙、岁星、东宿东宫于东郊兆；南方炎帝赤灵祝融畤及荧惑星、南宿南宫于南郊兆；西方帝少皞白灵蓐收畤及太白星、西宿西宫于西郊兆；北方帝颛顼黑灵玄冥畤及月庙、雨师庙、辰星、北宿北宫于北郊兆。
奏可，于是长安旁诸庙兆畤甚盛矣。
莽又言： 帝王建立社稷，百王不易。
社者，土也。
宗庙，王者所居。
稷者，百谷之主，所以奉宗庙，共粢盛，人所食以生活也。
translation: 
The three families of Ouyang and Xiaoxiahou explained the six sects, and they all said that the top is not as high as the sky, the bottom is not as low as the earth, and the side is not as good as the four directions. Among these six directions, assisting the changes of yin and yang, there is actually one sect but the name is six sects. The name does not correspond to the reality.
According to the "Book of Rites", if merit is given to the people, then it should be sacrificed.
The astronomical sun, moon and stars are used for illumination; the geographical mountains, rivers, seas and rivers are used for breeding and reproduction.
There are eight trigrams in "Yi". Among the six sons of "Qian" and "Kun", water and fire are not in conflict with each other, thunder and wind are not in conflict with each other, and the breath of mountains and rivers are connected. Only in this way can changes be carried out and all things can be comprehensively formed.
Not long ago, I reported that Taizhi and Fenyin's back soil in Ganquan Palace had been restored to the northern and southern suburbs.
According to the teachings of "Zhou Guan" to establish the altars of the Five Emperors in the surrounding suburbs, the mountains are located according to their directions. The altars of the Five Emperors are now located at the five sides of Yongcheng, which does not conform to the ancient system.
There are also sun, moon, thunder, wind, mountains and rivers, and the noble spirit of the six sons of the hexagram "Yi" are the so-called six sects.
Stars, water, fire and ditches are all part of the six sects. Now some of them are not specially worshiped, and some have no altars to live in.
The minister carefully discussed with eighty-nine people including Taishi Kong Guang, Da Situ Gong, Xi and Liu Xin. They all said that the emperor served heaven like his father and served the earth like his mother. Now the god of heaven is called Huangtianshangtian, the altar of Taiyi is called Taizhi, and the god of earth is called Houtu, which is the same as Huangling in the center. In addition, the altar built in the northern suburbs has no honorific title.
The earth god should be called Huang Zhui Houzhi, and the altar should be called Guangshi.
"Yi" says that similar things gather together in one place, and different things are separated according to groups.
The gods are divided into five groups according to the same kind and place, and altars are built for gods other than heaven and earth: in the center are Emperor Huang Linghou Tu Shi and Yue Temple, Beichen, Beidou, Saturn, and Zhongsu Zhonggong, and the altar is built in the Weidi of Chang'an City; in the east are Emperor Wu Qingling Goumangzhi and Lei Gong, Fengbo Temple, Jupiter, and Shusu Shu Palace. An altar was built in Shujiao; in the south, there were Emperor Yan's Chiling Zhurongzhi, Mars, and Nansu Nangong, and an altar was built in the southern suburbs; in the west, there were Emperor Shaowu Bai Lingxuanzhi, Jinxing, and Xisu's West Palace, and an altar was built in the western suburbs; in the north, Emperor Zhuanxu's Heiling Xuanmingzhi, Yuemiao, Yushi Temple, Chenxing, and Beisu Beigong built an altar in the northern suburbs.
The petition was approved. As a result, the altars and temples in the temples near Chang'an City were very prosperous.
Wang Mang also said: The emperor established the country, and hundreds of kings did not change it.
She is the god of land.
The ancestral temple is the place where the emperor lives.
Ji is the main god of Baigu. It is used to serve the ancestral temple, provide sacrifices, and eat food to maintain life.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
王者莫不尊重亲祭，自为之主，礼如宗庙。
《诗》曰 乃立冢土 。
又曰 以御田祖，以祈甘雨 。
《礼记》曰 唯祭宗庙社稷，为越绋而行事 。
圣汉兴，礼仪稍定，已有官社，未立官稷。
遂于官社后立官稷，以夏禹配食官社，后稷配食官稷。
稷种穀树。
徐州牧岁贡五色土各一斗。
莽篡位二年，兴神仙事，以方士苏乐言，起八风台于宫中。
台成万金，作乐其上，顺风作液汤。
又种五梁禾于殿中，各顺色置其方面，先煮鹤髓、毒冒、犀玉二十余物渍种，计粟斛成一金，言此黄帝谷仙之术也。
以乐为黄门郎，令主之。
莽遂崇鬼神淫祀，至其末年，自天地六宗以下至诸小鬼神，凡千七百所，用三牲鸟兽三千余种。
后不能备，乃以鸡当鹜雁，犬当麋鹿。
数下诏自以当仙，语在其《传》。
赞曰：汉兴之初，庶事草创，唯一叔孙生略定朝廷之仪。
若乃正朔、服色、郊望之事，数世犹未章焉。
至于孝文，始以夏郊，而张仓据水德，公孙臣、贾谊更以为土德，卒不能明。
孝武之世，文章为盛，太初改制，而宽、司马迁等犹从臣、谊之言，服色数度，遂顺黄德。
彼以五德之传，从所不胜，秦在水德，故谓汉据土而克之。
刘向父子以为帝出于《震》，故包羲氏始受木德，其后以母传子，终而复始，自神农、黄帝下历唐、虞三代而汉得火焉。
故高祖始起，神母夜号，著赤帝之符，旗章遂赤，自得天统矣。
昔共工氏以水德间于木、火，与秦同运，非其次序，故皆不永。
translation: 
The emperor did not disrespect and value the sacrifices himself, and personally presided over the sacrifices. The etiquette was the same as that of sacrifices in the ancestral temple.
"Poetry" says that a big society was built.
He also said that he would serve Ji God and pray for sweet rain.
"Book of Rites" says that only offering sacrifices to the ancestors and temples is called Yuesui.
The Holy Han Dynasty was established, etiquette was gradually established, there were official societies, but there was no official country yet.
So Guan Ji was established after the official society, and Xia Yu was used to feed the official society, and Hou Ji was used to share the official grain.
Plant cereal trees in the fields.
The Mu Shou of Xuzhou paid a tribute of one dou each of the five colors of soil every year.
In the second year after Wang Mang usurped the throne, the affairs of immortals arose. According to the advice of the alchemist Su Le, the Eight Winds Tower was built in the palace.
It cost ten thousand gold to build the platform. Music was played on it and a liquid soup was built in the direction of the wind.
He also planted five grains of grain in the palace, placing each one in its proper position according to its own color. First, he boiled more than twenty kinds of materials such as crane marrow, tortoise shell, and rhinoceros jade to soak the seeds. One handful of millet was calculated into one gold. This was said to be the method of the Yellow Emperor's Valley Immortal.
He appointed Su Le as Huang Menlang and ordered him to take charge of this matter.
Wang Mang then worshiped ghosts and gods and performed too many sacrifices. By the end of Wang Mang's life, there were a total of 1,700 temples, ranging from the six sects of heaven and earth to the minor ghosts and gods, and more than 3,000 kinds of animals and birds were used.
Later, when they couldn't prepare everything, they used harps as geese and dogs as elk.
Several times, Shao thought that he should become a god, and his words were recorded in his biography.
Zan said: In the early days of the establishment of the Han Dynasty, everything was in the preliminary stage, and only Shu Sunsheng briefly formulated the etiquette of the court.
As for things like Zhengshuo, Fuse, Jiaowang, etc., it has not been clarified after several generations.
By the time of Emperor Xiaowen, people began to hold sacrifices in the summer suburbs. However, Zhang Cang based his practice on Shui De, while Gongsun Chen and Jia Yi thought it should be changed to Tu De, but they could not figure it out in the end.
In the era of Emperor Xiaowu, rituals, music, and laws flourished. At the beginning of the Taichu period, the ritual system was reformed, but Ni Kuan, Sima Qian, and others still followed what Gongsun Chen and Mai Yi said, and the service system followed Huang De.
Based on the principle that the five virtues are transmitted and followed and cannot be defeated, they believe that the Qin Dynasty relied on the virtue of water, so they said that the Han Dynasty defeated it based on the virtue of earth.
Liu Xiang and his son believed that the emperor came from "Zhen", so Bao Xi began to accept Mu De, which was passed from mother to son, and over and over again. From Shennong and Huangdi through the Tang, Yu and Han dynasties, they got Huo De.
Therefore, when Emperor Gaozu began to rise, the Mother Goddess cried at night to show the auspicious symbol of the Red Emperor, and the color of the flag was red, which naturally led to heavenly rule.
In the past, the Gonggong family used water virtue to separate wood and fire. They had the same fate as the Qin Dynasty, which was not their order, so they could not last long.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
由是言之，祖宗之制盖有自然之应，顺时宜矣。
究观方士祠官之变，谷永之言，不亦正乎！
不亦正乎！
translation: 
From this point of view, the ancestral system generally has a natural correspondence and adapts to the times.
Exploring and observing the changes in alchemists and ancestral officials, Gu Yong’s remarks are also correct!
Isn’t that also correct!


