Chunk 0: 
original: 
太史公曰：自古圣王将建国受命，兴动事业，何尝不宝卜筮以助善！
唐虞以上，不可记已。
自三代之兴，各据祯祥。
涂山之兆从而夏启世，飞燕之卜顺故殷兴，百穀之筮吉故周王。
王者决定诸疑，参以卜筮，断以蓍龟，不易之道也。
蛮夷氐羌虽无君臣之序，亦有决疑之卜。
或以金石，或以草木，国不同俗。
然皆可以战伐攻击，推兵求胜，各信其神，以知来事。
略闻夏殷欲卜者，乃取蓍龟，已则弃去之，以为龟藏则不灵，蓍久则不神。
至周室之卜官，常宝藏蓍龟；又其大小先後，各有所尚，要其归等耳。
或以为圣王遭事无不定，决疑无不见，其设稽神求问之道者，以为後世衰微，愚不师智，人各自安，化分为百室，道散而无垠，故推归之至微，要絜於精神也。
或以为昆蟲之所长，圣人不能与争。
其处吉凶，别然否，多中於人。
至高祖时，因秦太卜官。
天下始定，兵革未息。
及孝惠享国日少，吕后女主，孝文、孝景因袭掌故，未遑讲试，虽父子畴官，世世相传，其精微深妙，多所遗失。
至今上即位，博开艺能之路，悉延百端之学，通一伎之士咸得自效，绝伦超奇者为右，无所阿私，数年之间，太卜大集。
会上欲击匈奴，西攘大宛，南收百越，卜筮至预见表象，先图其利。
及猛将推锋执节，获胜於彼，而蓍龟时日亦有力於此。
上尤加意，赏赐至或数千万。
如丘子明之属，富溢贵宠，倾於朝廷。
至以卜筮射蛊道，巫蛊时或颇中。
translation: 
Tai Shigong said: Since ancient times, the sage kings are about to establish a country, accept the destiny of heaven, and establish a cause. How can they not respect the use of divination to help achieve good deeds?
It is impossible to record what happened before Tang Yao and Yu Shun.
Judging from the rise of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, they were all based on auspicious omens from divination.
Dayu's marriage to the daughter of the Tushan clan was auspicious, so Xia Qi established the Xia Dynasty, which has been passed down from generation to generation; Jian Di swallowed the eggs of flying swallows, and the auspicious predictions were favorable, so the Yin Dynasty rose; Houji, who was good at sowing hundreds of grains, got auspiciousness, so the king of Zhou finally became the king of the world.
When the king decided on difficult matters, he would refer to the results of divination made with the turtle to make the final decision. This was an unchanging traditional procedure.
Although the Barbarians, Barbarians, Di and Qiang did not have the Chinese-style hierarchy of monarchs and ministers, they also had the custom of divination for making decisions and doubts.
Some use gold and stone, some use plants and trees, and divination customs vary from country to country.
But they can all be used to guide war operations, research, and achieve victory in wars. Each worships the gods of divination to predict future events.
I have heard a little bit: During the Xia and Yin Dynasties, yarrow turtles were found when it was time to perform divination, and they were discarded after the divination, because they believed that turtle shell yarrow would not be effective if stored.
In the Zhou Dynasty, diviners always collected yarrow and tortoise shells for later use. In addition, who is more intelligent and who is less intelligent? When using Turtleweed, which one comes first and which one comes last?
Every dynasty has different values. But in summary, the purpose of using turtle divination methods to help people predict the future is the same. Some people believe that there was never a time when the Holy King was undecided when encountering something; there was never a time when the Holy King lacked insights when solving problems. The reason why they set up the method of praying to gods and asking for divination is because they are worried that future generations will decline and decline. Foolish people will not learn from smart people. Everyone will be satisfied with their own knowledge. Differences in education will arise. The big principles will be broken into pieces and cannot be grasped. Therefore, they push the physical and emotional affairs to the most subtle realm, that is, the gods, and seek purity in the spirit.
Some people also think that what the tortoise is good at, the saint cannot catch up with.
It judges good and bad, distinguishes right from wrong, and is often more accurate than human predictions.
After Emperor Gaozu succeeded to the throne, he followed the system of the Qin Dynasty and established diviners.
At that time, the country had just been unified and the war had not stopped.
As for Emperor Xiaohui, his reign was short, Empress Lu was the heroine, and Emperor Xiaowen and Emperor Xiaojing just followed the old system and did not have time to study the divination in depth. Therefore, although fortune-telling has been passed down from father to son and passed down from generation to generation, many of its subtle and profound principles and methods have been lost.
Now that the emperor has ascended the throne, he has opened up the path for talented people to advance, and has recruited various scholars. Anyone who is proficient in a certain skill will have the opportunity to contribute, and those with outstanding skills will receive preferential treatment. He is pragmatic and has no partiality. In the past few years, the Taibu official office has gathered many talents.
At this time, the emperor was about to attack the Xiongnu in the north, Dawan in the west, and Baiyue in the south. Divination could predict changes in events and suggest ways to gain advantages and avoid disadvantages.
Later, fierce generals were ordered to lead troops to charge and win on the battlefield, which also included the contribution of divination's pre-planning in the temple.
As a result, the emperor paid more attention to the fortune-telling officials, and the rewards sometimes amounted to tens of millions of dollars.
For example, Qiu Ziming and others' wealth increased dramatically, and they were greatly favored, overwhelming the ministers of the court.
Even divination is used to guess the behavior of witches and Gu, and the behavior of witches and Gu can sometimes be guessed accurately.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
素有眦睚不快，因公行诛，恣意所伤，以破族灭门者，不可胜数。
百僚荡恐，皆曰龟策能言。
後事觉奸穷，亦诛三族。
夫摓策定数，灼龟观兆，变化无穷，是以择贤而用占焉，可谓圣人重事者乎！
周公卜三龟，而武王有瘳。
纣为暴虐，而元龟不占。
晋文将定襄王之位，卜得黄帝之兆，卒受彤弓之命。
献公贪骊姬之色，卜而兆有口象，其祸竟流五世。
楚灵将背周室，卜而龟逆，终被乾谿之败。
兆应信诚於内，而时人明察见之於外，可不谓两合者哉！
君子谓夫轻卜筮，无神明者，悖；背人道，信祯祥者，鬼神不得其正。
故书建稽疑，五谋而卜筮居其二，五占从其多，明有而不专之道也。
余至江南，观其行事，问其长老，云龟千岁乃游莲叶之上，蓍百茎共一根。
又其所生，兽无虎狼，草无毒螫。
江傍家人常畜龟饮食之，以为能导引致气，有益於助衰养老，岂不信哉！
褚先生曰：臣以通经术，受业博士，治春秋，以高第为郎，幸得宿，出入宫殿中十有馀年。
窃好太史公传。
太史公之传曰： 三王不同龟，四夷各异卜，然各以决吉凶，略闚其要，故作龟策列传。
臣往来长安中，求龟策列传不能得，故之大卜官，问掌故文学长老习事者，写取龟策卜事，编于下方。
闻古五帝、三王发动举事，必先决蓍龟。
translation: 
For those who had offended them even slightly, they would seek opportunities to avenge themselves and persecute them wantonly. As a result, the number of people who had their families destroyed was incalculable.
All civil and military officials were in panic, and they all flattered him that the theory of turtles and yarrow was effective.
Later, the true nature of the false accusation by the fortune teller was exposed, and the three clans were also wiped out.
Since yarrow is used to predict good and bad luck, and tortoise shells are burned to observe the omens, the changes are endless. Therefore, wise men are selected as divination officials. This can be said to be the importance that the saints attach to the important matter of divination!
Duke Zhou used tortoise shells for divination three times, so King Wu of Zhou could recover from his illness.
King Zhou was tyrannical, so even using a big turtle would not bring good luck.
Duke Wen of Jin was about to restore King Zhou Xiang to the throne. During the divination, he got a good omen that "The Yellow Emperor fought at Banquan". He finally succeeded and received the Tong Bow from King Zhou Xiang with the order of conquest, and became Hou Bo.
Duke Xian of Jin was covetous of Li Ji's beauty and wanted to attack Li Rong. He predicted that victory would be an unlucky omen. The disaster of attacking Li Rong actually extended to the fifth king of Jin.
King Ling of Chu was about to betray the Zhou royal family, and the divination was unlucky, which finally led to Qianxi's defeat.
The tortoise omen indicates the inner trend. At that time, people can see the external manifestation. Can we not say that this is consistent with the two?
A gentleman believes that those who despise divination and do not believe in gods are ignorant; those who abandon human plans and only believe in auspicious omens will not be treated fairly by ghosts and gods.
Therefore, there is a section on "Judgment" in "Shangshu·Hongfan", which proposes five objects that can be discussed with when solving difficult problems, and divination and divination account for two of them. When five people perform divination, one should rely on the judgment of the majority of them. This shows that although there are diviners, they are not arbitrary.
When I visited the south of the Yangtze River for investigation, I learned about the turtle yarrow and interviewed the elderly local people. They said that the turtle lived to be a thousand years old and could walk on the lotus leaves. The yarrow has hundreds of branches and stems, but it still has one root.
He also said that where turtles grow, there are no ferocious beasts such as tigers and wolves, and no poisonous weeds.
Riverside residents often raise turtles, drink their blood, and eat their meat. They believe that turtles can help people unblock their tendons, bring about vitality, and help people resist aging and provide for their old age. Aren’t these words true?
Mr. Chu said: I am proficient in Confucian classics. I am a doctor's disciple and study "Spring and Autumn". Due to my excellent performance, I was appointed as a Langguan. I was fortunate to serve as a guard in the palace and have been in and out of the palace for more than ten years.
I personally like "Tai Shi Gong Zhuan".
Tai Shigong's "Biography" said that the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties had different methods of tortoise divination, and the four ethnic groups also had different divination methods, but they were all used to judge good and bad luck. I reviewed their key points and wrote the "Biography of Guice".
I searched repeatedly in Chang'an City but could not find the "Biography of Guice", so I visited the Taidivination Official and asked the literary elders who were familiar with Guice's affairs for anecdotes. I wrote down the divination of Guice and compiled it below.
It is said that in ancient times, when the five emperors and three kings planned to launch major events, they would make decisions through divination in advance.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
传曰： 下有伏灵，上有兔丝；上有捣蓍，下有神龟。
所谓伏灵者，在兔丝之下，状似飞鸟之形。
新雨已，天清静无风，以夜捎兔丝去之，既以鮸烛此地烛之，火灭，即记其处，以新布四丈环置之，明即掘取之，入四尺至七尺，得矣，过七尺不可得。
伏灵者，千岁松根也，食之不死。
闻蓍生满百茎者，其下必有神龟守之，其上常有青云覆之。
传曰： 天下和平，王道得，而蓍茎长丈，其丛生满百茎。
方今世取蓍者，不能中古法度，不能得满百茎长丈者，取八十茎已上，蓍长八尺，即难得也。
人民好用卦者，取满六十茎已上，长满六尺者，既可用矣。
记曰： 能得名龟者，财物归之，家必大富至千万。
一曰 北斗龟 ，二曰 南辰龟 ，三曰 五星龟 ，四曰 八风龟 ，五曰 二十八宿龟 ，六曰 日月龟 ，七曰 九州龟 ，八曰 玉龟 ：凡八名龟。
龟图各有文在腹下，文云云者，此某之龟也。略记其大指，不写其图。
取此龟不必满尺二寸，民人得长七八寸，可宝矣。
今夫珠玉宝器，虽有所深藏，必见其光，必出其神明，其此之谓乎！
故玉处於山而木润，渊生珠而岸不枯者，润泽之所加也。
明月之珠出於江海，藏於蚌中，蚗龙伏之。
王得之，长有天下，四夷宾服。
能得百茎蓍，并得其下龟以卜者，百言百当，足以决吉凶。
神龟出於江水中，庐江郡常岁时生龟长尺二寸者二十枚输太卜官，太卜官因以吉日剔取其腹下甲。
龟千岁乃满尺二寸。
translation: 
Ancient divination books say: There is Fuling below, and rabbit threads above; there are bunches of yarrow above, and the tortoise below.
The so-called Fuling grows under rabbit silk and looks like a bird.
After the first spring rain, if the weather is calm and windless, you can cut off the rabbit silk at night and use a lantern to illuminate it. If the lantern burns out as soon as it is illuminated, remember this place and surround it with four feet of new cloth. When dawn comes, dig down until you reach between four feet and seven feet. Nothing over seven feet.
Fuling is the root of a thousand-year-old pine tree. People who eat it can live forever.
It is said that if the yarrow has a hundred branches and stems, there will be a divine turtle guarding it below, and it will always be shrouded by blue clouds.
Ancient books say: When the world is peaceful and the king's law is implemented, yarrow can grow a stem one foot long, and a clump can be filled with a hundred stems and branches.
Today's search for yarrow cannot meet the requirements in ancient books, and we cannot find one with hundreds of stems and one foot long. It is very difficult to find one with more than eighty stems and eight feet long.
If the people like to use hexagrams, they can use it if they find one with more than sixty stems and six feet in length.
Ancient books say that if you can get a famous turtle, your property will follow, and your family will definitely become rich, reaching tens of millions of dollars.
Among the famous turtles, the first is called the Big Dipper turtle, the second is called the Nanchen turtle, the third is called the Five Star turtle, the fourth is called the Eight Winds turtle, the fifth is called the Twenty-Eight Stars turtle, the sixth is called the Sun and Moon turtle, the seventh is called the Kyushu turtle, and the eighth is called the Jade turtle, a total of eight kinds of famous turtles.
There are words on the underside of the turtle pictures in ancient books, indicating what kind of turtle they are. I will only briefly write their names here without drawing pictures of turtles.
When looking for this kind of turtle, it is not necessary to be one foot or two inches long. Folks can regard it as a treasure if they get a turtle that is seven or eight inches long.
Jewels and jade, no matter how deeply they are hidden, will still shine out and reveal their gods. The principle is the same as the arrival of a famous turtle brings wealth.
Therefore, if jade is stored in the mountains, the trees on the mountains will get water. If there are pearls in the deep pools, the vegetation on the shore will not wither. This is because they are moistened by jade and pearls.
The famous bright moon beads are produced in rivers and seas, hidden in clams, with dragons lying on them.
If the king can obtain it, he can protect the world forever and the barbarians from all over the world will submit to it.
Whoever can get a hundred stems of yarrow and at the same time a divine turtle underneath it for divination will be able to ask a hundred questions and answer a hundred questions, enough to determine good or bad luck.
Divine turtles come from the waters of the Yangtze River. Every year, Lujiang County delivers twenty live turtles one foot and two inches in length to the Taifu officials, who then pick off the underbelly of the turtles on auspicious days.
The turtle lives a thousand years before reaching one foot and two inches.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
王者发军行将，必钻龟庙堂之上，以决吉凶。
今高庙中有龟室，藏内以为神宝。
传曰： 取前足臑骨穿佩之，取龟置室西北隅悬之，以入深山大林中，不惑。
臣为郎时，见万毕石硃方，传曰： 有神龟在江南嘉林中。
嘉林者，兽无虎狼，鸟无鸱枭，草无毒螫，野火不及，斧斤不至，是为嘉林。
龟在其中，常巢於芳莲之上。
左胁书文曰： 甲子重光，得我者匹夫为人君，有土正，诸侯得我为帝王。
求之於白蛇蟠杅林中者，斋戒以待，譺然，状如有人来告之，因以醮酒佗发，求之三宿而得。
由是观之，岂不伟哉！
故龟可不敬与？
南方老人用龟支床足，行二十馀岁，老人死，移床，龟尚生不死。
龟能行气导引。
问者曰： 龟至神若此，然太卜官得生龟，何为辄杀取其甲乎？
近世江上人有得名龟，畜置之，家因大富。
与人议，欲遣去。
人教杀之勿遣，遣之破人家。
龟见梦曰： 送我水中，无杀吾也。
其家终杀之。
杀之後，身死，家不利。
人民与君王者异道。人民得名龟，其状类不宜杀也。
以往古故事言之，古明王圣主皆杀而用之。
宋元王时得龟，亦杀而用之。
谨连其事於左方，令好事者观择其中焉。
宋元王二年，江使神龟使於河，至於泉阳，渔者豫且举网得而囚之。置之笼中。
夜半，龟来见梦於宋元王曰： 我为江使於河，而幕网当吾路。
泉阳豫且得我，我不能去。
身在患中，莫可告语。
王有德义，故来告诉。
元王惕然而悟。
translation: 
When the king dispatches his troops and generals, he must drill tortoise shells on the temples to determine good or bad luck.
Now there is a turtle room in Gaozu Temple, where tortoise shells are collected and regarded as sacred treasures.
Ancient books say: Take the forefoot arm bone of a turtle, wear it on your body, and hang the turtle in the northwest corner of the room. If you use this method to enter the deep mountains and old forests, you will not lose your way.
When I was a Langguan, I read "Wan Bi Shi Zhu Fang". The book said: There is a magical turtle living in Jia Lin in the south of the Yangtze River.
Jia Lin means that there are no tigers and wolves among the wild beasts in the forest, there are no owls among the birds, there are no poisonous weeds and insects in the grass, wild fire cannot burn it, and axes cannot chop it. This is Jia Lin.
Turtles are in the Jia Lin and often build their nests on the fragrant lotus.
There is a text written under the left side of the turtle, which says: In the year of Jiazi, when the sun's crown shines brightly, whoever gets me can become a ruler and an official with a fiefdom, and the princes who get me can become an emperor.
Those who seek the turtle in the forest of white snakes and snakes fast and wait respectfully, as if someone comes to tell the news about the turtle. They also offer wine to the gods, let their hair hang down, and beg the turtle for three days and three nights to get it.
From this point of view, isn’t it great!
So can we disrespect the Turtles?
There was an old man in the south who used a turtle support to prop up the foot of his bed. More than twenty years later, the old man died and someone else moved the bed, but the turtle was still alive.
Turtles can move Qi and guide it.
Someone asked: The turtle is such a god, but when the diviner gets a live turtle, why does he always kill it and pick off its plastron?
A few years ago, someone along the Yangtze River got a famous turtle and raised it, making his family very rich.
He discussed with others and wanted to release the turtle and leave.
Someone taught him to kill the turtle and not release it. If he released the turtle, his family would be destroyed.
The turtle told him in a dream: Send me back to the water, don't kill me.
The family eventually killed it.
After killing the turtle, the owner will die and the family will be unlucky.
The common people and the monarch have different principles. When the common people get the name of turtle, it seems that it is not suitable to kill them.
According to past stories, the ancient Ming King and Holy Lord always killed turtles and used them.
When the kings of Song and Yuan Dynasties got a turtle, they killed it and made use of it.
I would like to record this incident in succession below, so that people with good intentions can appreciate and choose from it.
In the second year of the reign of Emperor Song and Yuan Dynasty, the God of the Yangtze River sent a divine turtle to the Yellow River. When they arrived in Quanyang, a fisherman cast a net to catch the turtle, imprisoned it and put it in a cage.
In the middle of the night, Gu Lai entrusted a dream to King Song and Yuan, saying: I went on a mission to the Yellow River for the River God, but the fishnet blocked my way.
Yuqie of Quanyang has got me, and I can't leave.
In times of trouble, there is no one to turn to.
The king is virtuous, so he came here to tell you.
King Yuan woke up in surprise.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
乃召博士卫平而问之曰： 今寡人梦见一丈夫，延颈而长头，衣玄绣之衣而乘辎车，来见梦於寡人曰： 我为江使於河，而幕网当吾路。
泉阳豫且得我，我不能去。
身在患中，莫可告语。
王有德义，故来告诉。
是何物也？
卫平乃援式而起，仰天而视月之光，观斗所指，定日处乡。
规矩为辅，副以权衡。
四维已定，八卦相望。视其吉凶，介蟲先见。
乃对元王曰： 今昔壬子，宿在牵牛。
河水大会，鬼神相谋。
汉正南北，江河固期，南风新至，江使先来。
白云壅汉，万物尽留。
斗柄指日，使者当囚。
玄服而乘辎车，其名为龟。
王急使人问而求之。 王曰： 善。
於是王乃使人驰而往问泉阳令曰： 渔者几何家？
名谁为豫且？
豫且得龟，见梦於王，王故使我求之。
泉阳令乃使吏案籍视图，水上渔者五十五家，上流之庐，名为豫且。
泉阳令曰： 诺。
乃与使者驰而问豫且曰： 今昔汝渔何得？
豫且曰： 夜半时举网得龟。
使者曰： 今龟安在？
曰： 在笼中。
使者曰： 王知子得龟，故使我求之。
豫且曰： 诺。
即系龟而出之笼中，献使者。
使者载行，出於泉阳之门。
正昼无见，风雨晦冥。
云盖其上，五采青黄；雷雨并起，风将而行。
入於端门，见於东箱。
身如流水，润泽有光。
望见元王，延颈而前，三步而止，缩颈而卻，复其故处。
元王见而怪之，问卫平曰： 龟见寡人，延颈而前，以何望也？
缩颈而复，是何当也？
卫平对曰： 龟在患中，而终昔囚，王有德义，使人活之。
今延颈而前，以当谢也，缩颈而卻，欲亟去也。 元王曰： 善哉！
translation: 
So he summoned Dr. Wei Ping and asked him: Tonight I dreamed of a man with stretched out neck and long head, wearing black embroidered clothes, riding a carriage. He came to me in the dream and said: I am on a mission to the Yellow River for the River God, but the fishnet blocks my way.
Yuqie of Quanyang has got me, and I can't leave.
In times of trouble, there is no one to turn to.
The king is virtuous, so he came here to tell you.
What kind of character is this?
Wei Ping took the divination tool and stood up, looked up at the sky, observed the light of the moon, observed the direction of the handle of the Big Dipper, and deduce the position of the sun in the sky.
Use compasses and square rulers as auxiliary tools, plus weighing hammers and weighing rods.
The four corners of southeast, northeast, southwest and northwest have been determined. Qian, Kun, Zhen, Xun, Kan, Li, Gen and Dui Bagua are in their respective positions and face each other. Observe the good and bad signs among them, and the armored insect appears first.
Wei Ping then said to King Yuan: Last night on the day of Ren, the sun was in the Altair constellation.
The great water of the Yellow River meets each other, and the ghosts and gods conspire.
The Tianhe River is just connecting the north and the south. The river god and the river god originally had an appointment. When the south wind comes, the messenger of the river god comes first.
White clouds blocked the Tianhe River, and everything was stranded.
The handle of the Big Dipper points to the sun, and the messenger of the River God is imprisoned.
The one who wears black clothes and rides in a carriage is called Turtle.
The king quickly sent people to inquire about it. King Yuan said: OK.
At that time, King Yuan sent someone to Quanyang and asked the county magistrate of Quanyang: How many fishermen are there?
Whose name is Yuqe?
I got a tortoise. The tortoise gave it to the king in a dream, so the king sent me to look for it.
The order of Quanyang sent county officials to check the household registration book and the map of the city. There were fifty-five fishermen on the water, and there was a cottage in the upper reaches. The owner's name was Yuque.
Quanyang Ling said: OK.
So he hurried over with the envoy and asked Yu Qe, "What did you get from fishing last night?"
Yu Qie said: At midnight, I cast a net and caught a turtle.
The messenger asked: Where is the turtle now?
He hesitated to answer: In a cage.
The messenger said: The king knows that you have this turtle, so he sent me to ask for it.
Yuqie said: OK.
The turtle was immediately tied up, taken out of the cage, and presented to the messenger.
The messenger carried the turtle and left the gate of Quanyang City.
Suddenly it was broad daylight and nothing could be seen. It was stormy and dark.
Clouds cover the top of the turtle car, showing green and yellow colors; thunder and rain are coming, and the wind is accompanying it.
Entering the end gate of the palace, Gui came to see King Yuan in the east side hall.
The body of the turtle is like running water, moist and shiny.
When the turtle saw King Yuan, it stretched out its neck and crawled forward. After crawling for three steps, it stopped, retracted its neck and retreated back to its original position.
When King Yuan saw this, he was surprised and asked Wei Ping: "When the turtle saw me, it stretched its neck and crawled forward. Why did it look up?"
He shrunk his neck and returned to his original position. What does this mean?
Wei Ping replied: The turtle was in trouble and was imprisoned all night. The king was virtuous and sent people to rescue it.
Now it stretches its neck and crawls forward to express its gratitude, and then shrinks its neck and retreats, hoping to leave quickly. King Yuan said: How wonderful!


Chunk 5: 
original: 
神至如此乎，不可久留；趣驾送龟，勿令失期。
卫平对曰： 龟者是天下之宝也，先得此龟者为天子，且十言十当，十战十胜。
生於深渊，长於黄土。知天之道，明於上古。
游三千岁，不出其域。
安平静正，动不用力。
寿蔽天地，莫知其极。
与物变化，四时变色。
居而自匿，伏而不食。
春仓夏黄，秋白冬黑。
明於阴阳，审於刑德。
先知利害，察於祸福，以言而当，以战而胜，王能宝之，诸侯尽服。
王勿遣也，以安社稷。
元王曰： 龟甚神灵，降于上天，陷於深渊。
在患难中。以我为贤。德厚而忠信，故来告寡人。
寡人若不遣也，是渔者也。
渔者利其肉，寡人贪其力，下为不仁，上为无德。
君臣无礼，何从有福？
寡人不忍，柰何勿遣！
卫平对曰： 不然。
臣闻盛德不报，重寄不归；天与不受，天夺之宝。
今龟周流天下，还复其所，上至苍天，下薄泥涂。
还遍九州，未尝愧辱，无所稽留。
今至泉阳，渔者辱而囚之。
王虽遣之，江河必怒，务求报仇。
自以为侵，因神与谋。
淫雨不霁，水不可治。
若为枯旱，风而扬埃，蝗蟲暴生，百姓失时。
王行仁义，其罚必来。
此无佗故，其祟在龟。
後虽悔之，岂有及哉！
王勿遣也。
元王慨然而叹曰： 夫逆人之使，绝人之谋，是不暴乎？
取人之有，以自为宝，是不彊乎？
寡人闻之，暴得者必暴亡，彊取者必後无功。
桀纣暴彊，身死国亡。
今我听子，是无仁义之名而有暴彊之道。
江河为汤武，我为桀纣。
未见其利，恐离其咎。
寡人狐疑，安事此宝，趣驾送龟，勿令久留。
卫平对曰： 不然，王其无患。
translation: 
Has the turtle's spirit reached such an extent? Don't keep it for a long time, drive the turtle to it as soon as possible, don't let it delay the deadline.
Wei Ping replied: The tortoise is the most precious thing in the world. The first person to get the tortoise will become the emperor, and he will be able to win ten times in ten battles.
The turtle was born in the abyss and grew up in the loess. It knows the way of heaven and understands the people and affairs of ancient times.
It has traveled for three thousand years without exceeding the area where it lives.
The tortoise is peaceful and peaceful, its energy is calm and upright, and it moves without any effort.
Longevity covers the world, and no one knows its limit.
It changes with everything, changing color with the seasons.
It lives and hides itself, lying down without eating food.
It is cyan in spring, yellow in summer, white in autumn and black in winter.
Turtles can clearly distinguish between yin and yang, examine punishments and virtues, foresee benefits and harms, and carefully examine misfortunes and blessings.
Use it to speak and you will hit the mark, use it to predict battles and you will win. If the king can regard it as a national treasure, all the princes will come to submit to it.
Don't give it away, use it to stabilize the country.
King Yuan said: This turtle is very spiritual. It fell from the sky and fell into the abyss.
In times of trouble, consider me a virtuous person, benevolent and loyal, so you come to me and call upon me.
If I didn't send it away, I would be like that fisherman.
The fishermen use its body to make profit, but I covet its divine power. The one below is unkind, and the one above is immoral.
If the ruler and his ministers are rude, where will the blessing come from?
I can't bear it, how could I not send it away!
Wei Ping replied: That's not the case.
I heard that great kindness does not need to be repaid, and valuable deposits do not need to be returned; if you do not accept what God has given you, God will take back its treasure.
Now the turtle travels around the world and returns to its home, reaching up to the sky and down to the mud.
I have traveled all over the nine states and have never been humiliated or insulted, and I have never been detained anywhere.
Now arriving at Quanyang, the fisherman insulted and imprisoned it.
Even if the king sends it away, the river god and the river god will definitely be angry and must seek revenge.
The turtle will make plans with the gods because he has been violated.
Or it may rain for a long time without clearing up, and the flood cannot be treated.
Or drought, wind and dust, locust outbreaks, and people miss the farming season.
If the king is benevolent and righteous to Turtle, his punishment will surely come.
There is no other reason for this, the evil spirit is on this turtle.
Even if I regret it in the future, it will be too late!
King, do not send it away.
King Yuan sighed with emotion and said: Isn't it cruelty to obstruct other people's messengers and destroy other people's plans?
Isn't it tyranny to seize other people's things and use them as your own treasures?
I have heard it said that what is suddenly gained must be suddenly lost, and what is taken by force must be ineffective in the end.
Xia Jie and Shang Zhou were violent and tyrannical, so they died and the country perished.
If I obey you, I will lose the reputation of benevolence and righteousness and have the reputation of rape.
The river gods became Shang Tang and Zhou Wu, and I became Xia Jie and Shang Zhou.
If you don't see the benefit of the turtle, you may suffer the disaster caused by it.
I was full of doubts about how I could serve this treasure, so I quickly drove the turtle away to avoid keeping it for a long time.
Wei Ping replied: "That's not the case. Please don't worry, your Majesty."


Chunk 6: 
original: 
天地之间，累石为山。
高而不坏，地得为安。
故云物或危而顾安，或轻而不可迁；人或忠信而不如诞谩，或丑恶而宜大官，或美好佳丽而为众人患。
非神圣人，莫能尽言。
春秋冬夏，或暑或寒。
寒暑不和，贼气相奸。
同岁异节，其时使然。
故令春生夏长，秋收冬藏。
或为仁义，或为暴彊。
暴彊有乡，仁义有时。
万物尽然，不可胜治。
大王听臣，臣请悉言之。
天出五色，以辨白黑。
地生五穀，以知善恶。
人民莫知辨也，与禽兽相若。
谷居而穴处，不知田作。
天下祸乱，阴阳相错。疾疾，通而不相择。
妖鮟数见，传为单薄。
圣人别其生，使无相获。
禽兽有牝牡，置之山原；鸟有雌雄，布之林泽；有介之蟲，置之谿谷。
故牧人民，为之城郭，内经闾术，外为阡陌。
夫妻男女，赋之田宅，列其室屋。
为之图籍，别其名族。
立官置吏，劝以爵禄。
衣以桑麻，养以五穀。耕之櫌之，鉏之耨之。
口得所嗜，目得所美，身受其利。
以是观之，非彊不至。
故曰田者不彊，囷仓不盈；商贾不彊，不得其赢；妇女不彊，布帛不精；官御不彊，其势不成；大将不彊，卒不使令；侯王不彊，没世无名。
故云彊者，事之始也，分之理也，物之纪也。
所求於彊，无不有也。
王以为不然，王独不闻玉椟只雉，出於昆山；明月之珠，出於四海；镌石拌蚌，传卖於市；圣人得之，以为大宝。
大宝所在，乃为天子。
translation: 
Between the heaven and the earth, stones are piled up to form mountains.
The mountains are high but do not collapse, and the earth is safe.
Therefore, some things may seem dangerous but are actually safe, some may seem trivial but are immovable; some people may be loyal and honest but not as deceitful as others; some may be ugly but suitable for high office; some may be beautiful but become a scourge to everyone.
If it were not a holy person, no one could explain it clearly.
Spring, autumn, winter and summer, some are hot and some are cold.
The cold and heat are not harmonious, and evil spirits invade each other.
The seasons are different throughout the year, and their respective seasons make it so.
So let spring grow and summer grow, autumn harvest and winter hide.
Some are kind and some are violent.
There is a time for violence, and there is a time for benevolence and justice.
Everything is like this and cannot be studied deeply.
If your Majesty can listen to my opinion, please let me explain this matter in detail.
The five colors present in the sky are used to distinguish black and white.
Five kinds of good grains grow on the earth, which are used to know good and evil.
No one among the ancient people knew how to distinguish them, they were similar to animals.
They live in caves in valleys and do not know how to farm.
The world is in chaos, yin and yang are at odds with each other, men and women are in a hurry, and men and women are intermarriage, but they do not choose each other.
Evildoers appear again and again, and the family is left alone and weak.
The sage came out to distinguish various living creatures so that they would not attack each other.
There are birds and animals, and they are placed in the mountains and forests and fields; there are male and female birds, and they are placed in the woods and swamps; there are insects and insects, they are placed in the rivers and valleys.
Therefore, the sage governs the people and builds city walls for them, divides the city into streets and alleys, and builds field paths in the suburbs.
Husbands and wives, allocate fields and houses to them, and arrange their houses.
Make drawings and books for them and distinguish their names and families.
Set up officials and encourage them with titles and salaries.
They were made to wear mulberry and hemp, eat grains, plow the fields and weed the fields.
People's mouths eat the food they like, their eyes see beautiful things, and their bodies receive the benefits of food and clothing.
From this point of view, the goal cannot be achieved without hard work.
Therefore, if farmers are not hardworking, barns will not be full; if businessmen are not hardworking, they will not be able to make profits; if women are not hardworking, cloth will not be exquisite; if officials are not hardworking, their power will not be established; if generals are not hardworking, soldiers will not obey orders; if princes are not hardworking, they will have no reputation for life.
Therefore, hard work is the beginning of success, the basis of status, and the law of all things.
There is nothing that cannot be achieved if you pursue it through hard work.
Your Majesty thinks otherwise, haven't you heard? The pheasant in the jade box comes from Kunshan; the pearl of the bright moon comes from all over the world; the jade is carved out, the clam beads are cut out, and sold in the market. The saints got them and regarded them as valuable treasures.
The person who owns this treasure will become the emperor.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
今王自以为暴，不如拌蚌於海也；自以为彊，不过镌石於昆山也。
取者无咎，宝者无患。
今龟使来抵网，而遭渔者得之，见梦自言，是国之宝也，王何忧焉。
元王曰： 不然。
寡人闻之，谏者福也，谀者贼也。
人主听谀，是愚惑也。
虽然，祸不妄至，福不徒来。
天地合气，以生百财。
阴阳有分，不离四时，十有二月，日至为期。
圣人彻焉，身乃无灾。
明王用之，人莫敢欺。
故云福之至也，人自生之；祸之至也，人自成之。
祸与福同，刑与德双。
圣人察之，以知吉凶。
桀纣之时，与天争功，拥遏鬼神，使不得通。
是固已无道矣，谀臣有众。
桀有谀臣，名曰赵梁。
教为无道，劝以贪狼。系汤夏台，杀关龙逢。
左右恐死，偷谀於傍。
国危於累卵，皆曰无伤。
称乐万岁，或曰未央。
蔽其耳目，与之诈狂。
汤卒伐桀，身死国亡。
听其谀臣，身独受殃。
春秋著之，至今不忘。
纣有谀臣，名为左彊。夸而目巧，教为象郎。
将至於天，又有玉床。
犀玉之器，象箸而羹。
圣人剖其心，壮士斩其胻。
箕子恐死，被发佯狂。
杀周太子历，囚文王昌。
投之石室，将以昔至明。
阴兢活之，与之俱亡。
入於周地，得太公望。
兴卒聚兵，与纣相攻。
文王病死，载尸以行。
太子发代将，号为武王。
translation: 
Now you yourself regard the stranding of the divine turtle as tyranny, but it is actually not as good as extracting clam beads from the sea; you yourself regard this as tyranny, but in fact it is not as good as going to Kunshan to carve out jade.
He who digs out treasures has no sin, and he who hides treasures has no trouble.
Now the turtle envoy threw himself into a trap, met a fisherman and got it. The turtle introduced himself in a dream. This is a national treasure. What should the king worry about?
King Yuan said: That's not the case.
I have heard this saying: Those who criticize are the happiness of the country, and those who flatter are the disaster of the country.
It is foolish for a monarch to listen to flattery.
Despite this, disaster does not happen casually, and happiness does not come in vain.
The heaven and earth gather their vitality to produce all wealth.
Yin and Yang are different, and they are inseparable from the four seasons and twelve months of the year. When the days come, it becomes a cycle.
A saint who understands this principle will avoid disaster himself.
When a wise king applies this principle, no one dares to deceive him.
Therefore, the arrival of happiness is created by people themselves; the arrival of disaster is also caused by people themselves.
Disaster and happiness coexist, punishment and reward complement each other.
The sage understands this truth clearly and therefore knows the good and bad.
During the reigns of Jie of Xia and Zhou of Shang, they competed with the heavens for merit and hindered ghosts and gods from communicating with each other.
This is already cruel and unethical, and there are many flatterers.
Xia Jie had a flattering minister named Zhao Liang.
He instigated King Jie to be cruel and cruel, encouraged him to be as greedy as a wolf, imprisoned Shang Tang in Xiatai, and killed Guan Longfeng.
The people on the left and right are afraid of being killed, and they are just trying to flatter themselves.
The country is in danger, but everyone says it doesn't matter.
They shouted long live happily, but confusedly said that the fate of the country was not over yet.
Blind Xia Jie's ears and eyes, and join him in deceit and madness.
Shang Tang finally defeated Xia Jie, and Xia Jie died.
Xia Jie listened to Zhao Liang, a flattering official, and suffered disaster alone.
"Spring and Autumn" recorded this incident, which is still unforgettable.
During the Shang Dynasty, there was a flattering minister named Zuo Qiang. He boasted about his skillful eyes and instigated King Zhou to build an elephant gallery.
The elephant corridor is as high as the sky, and a jade bed is placed there.
Utensils carved from rhinoceros horn and jade are used, and ivory chopsticks are used to eat.
The heart of the sage Bigan was dug out, and the legs of the strong man were cut off.
Jizi was afraid of being killed, so he let his hair down and pretended to be crazy.
King Zhou killed Prince Li of Zhou and imprisoned King Wen of Zhou Jichang.
Throw King Wen into a stone chamber and prepare to imprison him from night to dawn.
Yin Jing rescued King Wen and escaped with him.
King Wen entered the Zhou Dynasty and obtained Tai Gongwang.
He mobilized his soldiers, gathered weapons, and fought against Shang Zhou.
King Wen died of illness, and his subordinates carried his body forward.
Prince Ji Fa replaced his father as a general, and his temple title was King Wu.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
战於牧野，破之华山之阳。
纣不胜败而还走，围之象郎。
自杀宣室，身死不葬。
头悬车轸，四马曳行。
寡人念其如此，肠如涫汤。
是人皆富有天下而贵至天子，然而大傲。
欲无厌时，举事而喜高，贪很而骄。
不用忠信，听其谀臣，而为天下笑。
今寡人之邦，居诸侯之间，曾不如秋毫。
举事不当，又安亡逃！
卫平对曰： 不然。
河虽神贤，不如昆仑之山；江之源理，不如四海，而人尚夺取其宝，诸侯争之，兵革为起。
小国见亡，大国危殆，杀人父兄，虏人妻子，残国灭庙，以争此宝。
战攻分争，是暴彊也。
故云取之以暴彊而治以文理，无逆四时，必亲贤士；与阴阳化，鬼神为使；通於天地，与之为友。
诸侯宾服，民众殷喜。
邦家安宁，与世更始。
汤武行之，乃取天子；春秋著之，以为经纪。
王不自称汤武，而自比桀纣。
桀纣为暴彊也，固以为常。
桀为瓦室，纣为象郎。
徵丝灼之，务以费。
赋敛无度，杀戮无方。
杀人六畜，以韦为囊。囊盛其血，与人县而射之，与天帝争彊。
逆乱四时，先百鬼尝。
谏者辄死，谀者在傍。
圣人伏匿，百姓莫行。
天数枯旱，国多妖祥。
螟蟲岁生，五穀不成。
民不安其处，鬼神不享。
飘风日起，正昼晦冥。日月并蚀，灭息无光。
列星奔乱，皆绝纪纲。
以是观之，安得久长！
虽无汤武，时固当亡。
故汤伐桀，武王剋纣，其时使然。
乃为天子，子孙续世；终身无咎，後世称之，至今不已。
是皆当时而行，见事而彊，乃能成其帝王。
translation: 
King Wu and King Zhou fought in Muye and defeated the Zhou army south of Mount Huashan.
King Zhou was defeated and fled back. King Wu besieged him in the Elephant Corridor.
King Zhou committed suicide in the Proclamation Chamber, but he was not allowed to be buried after his death.
The head was hung on the beam of the cart and was pulled by four horses.
When I think of King Zhou's situation, my heart is filled with sorrow like boiling water.
These people are all rich and noble, but they are too arrogant.
When desires are not satisfied, people tend to be ambitious, greedy and arrogant.
If you do not appoint loyal and trustworthy people, but listen to those flattering ministers, you will eventually be ridiculed by the world.
Now my territory is between the various vassal states, not even the slightest bit inferior to it.
If you don't do things properly, how can you escape disaster!
Wei Ping replied: That's not the case.
Although the Yellow River has wise gods, it is not as good as the Kunlun Mountains; the water source of the Yangtze River is smooth, but it is not as good as the four seas. However, people still wanted to seize the treasures of Kunlun and Sihai. The princes competed for them, and wars broke out.
Small countries were destroyed and big countries were in danger. They killed other people's parents and brothers, kidnapped other people's wives and children, destroyed other people's territories, and destroyed other people's ancestral temples in order to compete for these treasures.
Fighting and fighting is rape.
Therefore, we use violent force to seize it, and use civilization and education to govern it. If it does not violate the order of the four seasons, it will surely bring the wise men close; as the yin and yang change together, ghosts and gods can also be used; they can communicate with heaven and earth, and they can also be friends.
The princes surrendered and the people were prosperous and happy.
The country is peaceful and the society is getting rid of the old and ushering in the new.
Shang Tang and Zhou Wu used this method to obtain the throne of the emperor. "Spring and Autumn" recorded this incident and regarded it as a norm.
The king does not call himself Shang Tang or Zhou Wu, but compares himself to Xia Jie and Shang Zhou.
Xia Jie and Shang Zhou were violent and tyrannical, and they regarded these as commonplace.
Jie of Xia built a tile-roofed house, and Zhou of Shang built an elephant gallery.
Collecting silk and silk to burn as firewood will inevitably waste people and money.
There is no limit to the collection of taxes, and no rules for killing people.
They killed the people's livestock, made bags of cooked skins, filled the bags with the blood of the animals, hung them up, and shot them with others to compete with the Emperor of Heaven.
It violates the order of the four seasons and tastes the delicacies of the four seasons before offering sacrifices to the gods and ghosts.
Those who advise are always killed, but the courtiers who flatter are left behind.
The saints are hiding, and the people have no one to act.
The sky frequently brings droughts, and monsters often appear in the country.
Locust plagues occur every year, and crops fail.
The people are restless in their homes, and the ghosts and gods do not enjoy the sacrifices.
There was strong wind every day, and it was dark during the day. The sun and the moon eclipse together, extinguishing their light.
The stars do not follow the track and move randomly, all disrupting the order of discipline.
From this point of view, how could the reigns of Xia Jie and Shang Zhou last long?
Even without Shang Tang and Zhou Wu, they would have perished by then.
Therefore, Shang Tang defeated Jie and King Wu defeated Zhou. It was the situation at that time that made it so.
Shang Tang and Zhou Wu became emperors, and their descendants became kings one after another. They made no mistakes throughout their lives, and their descendants praised them and they have not stopped until now.
These are all actions that adapt to the current situation. Only by being strong in times of trouble can you become an emperor.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
今龟，大宝也，为圣人使，传之贤。
不用手足，雷电将之；风雨送之，流水行之。
侯王有德，乃得当之。
今王有德而当此宝，恐不敢受；王若遣之，宋必有咎。
後虽悔之，亦无及已。
元王大悦而喜。
於是元王向日而谢，再拜而受。
择日斋戒，甲乙最良。
乃刑白雉，及与骊羊；以血灌龟，於坛中央。
以刀剥之，身全不伤。
脯酒礼之，横其腹肠。
荆支卜之，必制其创。
理达於理，文相错迎。
使工占之，所言尽当。
邦福重宝，闻于傍乡。
元王之时，卫平相宋，宋国最彊，龟之力也。
故云神至能见梦於元王，而不能自出渔者之笼。
身能十言尽当，不能通使於河，还报於江，贤能令人战胜攻取，不能自解於刀锋，免剥刺之患。
圣能先知亟见，而不能令卫平无言。
言事百全，至身而挛；当时不利，又焉事贤！
贤者有恆常，士有適然。
是故明有所不见，听有所不闻；人虽贤，不能左画方，右画圆；日月之明，而时蔽於浮云。
羿名善射，不如雄渠、门；禹名为辩智，而不能胜鬼神。
地柱折，天故毋椽，又柰何责人於全？
孔子闻之曰： 神龟知吉凶，而骨直空枯。
日为德而君於天下，辱於三足之乌。
月为刑而相佐，见食於虾蟆。
蝟辱於鹊，腾蛇之神而殆於即且。
竹外有节理，中直空虚；松柏为百木长，而守门闾。
日辰不全，故有孤虚。
黄金有疵，白玉有瑕。
translation: 
Now the turtle is a valuable treasure. He went on a mission for the saint and passed it on to the wise king.
The turtle does not need to move his hands or feet, thunder and lightning accompany it, wind and rain escort it, and flowing water floats on it.
Only those princes who are benevolent can bear it.
Now the king is benevolent, so he got this treasure, but he dare not accept it because of fear. If you give it away, there will be disaster in the Song Dynasty.
Even if you regret it later, it will be too late.
King Yuan was very happy after hearing this.
So King Yuan bowed to the sun and thanked Heaven twice, and accepted the tortoise.
Choose auspicious days to fast, considering A and B to be the most auspicious days.
So he killed the white pheasant and the black sheep, and filled the turtle with blood in the center of the altar. When dissected with a knife, the tortoise shell was not damaged.
Sacrifice again with wine and meat, and remove the intestines.
Then burn it with thorn branches to seek omens.
Insist on burning out the omen pattern. Sure enough, the omen pattern appeared and the order was clear. Ask the fortune teller to predict the fortune, and what he says is very appropriate.
The country has such a valuable treasure, and the news spreads directly abroad.
So he killed the cow, took the skin, and covered it with Paulownia wood produced in Zheng to make a war drum.
Various weapons are made according to the characteristics of vegetation. When it comes to war, no one can rival King Yuan.
During the reign of King Yuan, Wei Ping was the Prime Minister of the Song State, and the Song State was the most powerful in the world. This was all due to the turtle's magical power.
Therefore, although the turtle is big enough to entrust dreams to the spirit of King Yuan, it cannot escape from the fisherman's cage on its own.
I can speak true to my words, but I cannot communicate with the Yellow River and repay the Yangtze River. His ability is so great that others can win and attack, but he cannot avoid the blade and avoid the disaster of being slaughtered.
Wei Ping was extremely smart and could predict the future and quickly see the blessings and disasters, but he could not prevent Wei Ping from saying unfavorable words to the kings of Song and Yuan Dynasties.
Predicting things is always thorough, and it affects oneself, but he is imprisoned and cannot be released; once things come to an individual, he cannot avoid disadvantages and seek advantages, so what is the use of being virtuous?
However, having said that, virtuous only refers to his virtuous side, and the same is true for most people.
Therefore, good eyesight also has aspects that cannot be seen, and good hearing has aspects that cannot be heard; no matter how great a person is, he cannot draw a square with his left hand and a circle with his right hand at the same time; the sun and moon are bright, but sometimes they are blocked by floating clouds.
Yi was said to have high archery skills, but he was not as good as Xiongqu and Bimen; Yu was said to be good at discerning and wise, but he could not defeat ghosts and gods.
The pillars of the earth have been broken, and the sky has no rafters, so why should we seek perfection from others?
After hearing about the story between the Divine Turtle and King Song and Yuan, Confucius said: The Divine Turtle can know whether things are good or bad, but he only has a hollow skeleton.
The solar energy dominates the world with its kindness, but is bullied by the three-legged crow.
The moon can use punishment to assist the sun, but it is bitten by a toad.
The hedgehog was bullied by the magpie, but the magical snake was no match for the centipede.
Bamboo has knots and segments on the outside, but is straight and hollow on the inside; pines and cypresses are as long as a hundred trees, but they are planted beside the gate to serve as guards.
The sun and the sun cannot be comprehensive, so they are lonely and empty.
Gold has flaws, white jade has flaws.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
事有所疾，亦有所徐。
物有所拘，亦有所据。
罔有所数，亦有所疏。
人有所贵，亦有所不如。
何可而適乎？
物安可全乎？
天尚不全，故世为屋，不成三瓦而陈之，以应之天。
天下有阶，物不全乃生也。
褚先生曰：渔者举网而得神龟，龟自见梦宋元王，元王召博士卫平告以梦龟状，平运式，定日月，分衡度，视吉凶，占龟与物色同，平谏王留神龟以为国重宝，美矣。
古者筮必称龟者，以其令名，所从来久矣。
余述而为传。
三月二月正月
十二月十一月中关内高外下四月首仰足开肣开首俛大五月横吉首俛大六月七月八月九月十月
卜禁曰：子亥戌不可以卜及杀龟。
日中如食已卜。
暮昏龟之徼也，不可以卜。
庚辛可以杀，及以钻之。
常以月旦祓龟，先以清水澡之，以卵祓之，乃持龟而遂之，若常以为祖。
人若已卜不中，皆祓之以卵，东向立，灼以荆若刚木，土卵指之者三，持龟以卵周环之，祝曰： 今日吉，谨以粱卵弟黄祓去玉灵之不祥。
玉灵必信以诚，知万事之情，辩兆皆可占。
不信不诚，则烧玉灵，扬其灰，以徵後龟。
其卜必北向，龟甲必尺二寸。
卜先以造灼钻，钻中已，又灼龟首，各三；又复灼所钻中曰正身，灼首曰正足，各三。
即以造三周龟，祝曰： 假之玉灵夫子。
夫子玉灵，荆灼而心，令而先知。
而上行於天，下行於渊，诸灵数箣，莫如汝信。
今日良日，行一良贞。
某欲卜某，即得而喜，不得而悔。
translation: 
Sometimes things go fast and sometimes things go slow.
Item performance has limitations, and it also has its specialties.
Sometimes the mesh appears too fine, and sometimes it appears too rough.
There are places where people are more valuable than others, and there are places where they are inferior to others.
What should we do?
How can we be comprehensive and considerate?
Heaven is not perfect yet, so when people build houses, they put three less tiles in order to accommodate the house, which means that it is not perfect, so as to adapt to the imperfection of Heaven.
Everything in the world is different, and everything survives in the world because of its imperfections.
Mr. Chu said: The fisherman caught the tortoise with a net, and the tortoise himself entrusted the dream to the king of Song and Yuan Dynasty. The king of Song and Yuan Dynasty called Dr. Wei Ping to tell him about the dream of the tortoise. Weiping used the formula to calculate, determine the position of the sun and moon, distinguish the relationship between stars and officials, predict good and bad luck, and found that the tortoise had the same image as the observed and calculated image. Weiping urged the king of Yuan to keep the tortoise as a national treasure. This is really good.
In ancient times, when talking about divination, one must praise turtles, because turtles have a long-standing reputation for being efficacious.
That's why I wrote this biography.
March February first month
December, November, Zhongguan, Gaowai, Xiaxia, April, Liangzhidaokai, Shoufu, May, Hengji, Shoufu, June, July, August, September, October
Taboos on divination: divination and turtle killing are not allowed at Zi, Hai and Xu.
If you encounter a solar eclipse during the day, you should stop divination.
At twilight, the tortoise can't move around and cannot be used for divination.
On Geng and Xin days, you can kill the turtle or drill into its shell.
The turtle is often washed on the first day of every month to get rid of any bad luck. The method is to first bathe the turtle with clean water, then rub the turtle with eggs, and then use the turtle for divination. This is a common method for using turtles.
If the divination does not work, rub the turtle with eggs to drive away bad luck. Stand facing east, burn the turtle with thorn branches or hardwood, shape the turtle into an egg shape with soil and point to the turtle three times. Then pick up the turtle and circle it with the eggs, and pray: Today is an auspicious day. I would like to use polished rice, chicken eggs, thorn wood, and yellow silk to drive away the bad luck of the jade turtle.
In this way, the jade spirit must be honest and trustworthy, so it knows everything and can understand everything through divination.
If the divination is not trustworthy and sincere, burn the jade spirit and discard its ashes to warn future turtles.
When doing divination, you must face north and use a tortoise shell one foot and two inches long.
When performing divination, first use burning thorns to burn the hollows on the turtle, then burn the middle part, and then burn the head three times each; the second part of the turtle is burned, called the body, and the one with the head is called the feet, three times each.
Then burn the turtle with thorn sticks, burn it around three times, and pray, saying: With the help of your divine power, Mrs. Yuling.
Master is very effective. I will burn your heart with thorn branches so that you can predict the future.
You can ascend to the sky and descend to the abyss, but all kinds of clever strategies are not as honest as yours.
Today is a good day, please give me a good omen.
I want to predict something. If I get a suitable omen, I will be happy, but if I don't get it, I will be upset.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
即得，发乡我身长大，首足收人皆上偶。
不得，发乡我身挫折，中外不相应，首足灭去。
灵龟卜祝曰： 假之灵龟，五巫五灵，不如神龟之灵，知人死，知人生。
某身良贞，某欲求某物。
即得也，头见足发，内外相应；即不得也，头仰足肣，内外自垂。
可得占。
卜占病者祝曰： 今某病困。死，首上开，内外交骇，身节折；不死，首仰足肣。
卜病者祟曰： 今病有祟无呈，无祟有呈。兆有中祟有内，外祟有外。
卜系者出不出。
不出，横吉安；若出，足开首仰有外。
卜求财物，其所当得。
得，首仰足开，内外相应；即不得，呈兆首仰足肣。
卜有卖若买臣妾马牛。
得之，首仰足开，内外相应；不得，首仰足肣，呈兆若横吉安。
卜击盗聚若干人，在某所，今某将卒若干人，往击之。
当胜，首仰足开身正，内自桥，外下；不胜，足肣首仰，身首内下外高。
卜求当行不行。
行，首足开；不行，足肣首仰，若横吉安，安不行。
卜往击盗，当见不见。
见，首仰足肣有外；不见，足开首仰。
卜往候盗，见不见。
见，首仰足肣，肣胜有外；不见，足开首仰。
卜闻盗来不来。
来，外高内下，足肣首仰；不来，足开首仰，若横吉安，期之自次。
translation: 
If I can get what I ask for, please show me a long and large sign body, with the head and feet converged, and the signs rising in pairs.
If I cannot get what I ask for, please show me a sign that is not straight and the center does not correspond to the edges. The sign does not appear at the beginning or end.
The turtle fortune teller prays: With the help of your turtle power. The five witches and five spirits are not as good as the spirit of the turtle, which can predict whether people will live or die.
I want a good omen, I want to ask for something.
If you can get it, please show the omens and omens, and make the inside and outside of the omens correspond. If you can't get them, please raise the omens, the omens will converge, and the inside and outside will hang down.
If you show it this way, I will get the divination result.
When divining a patient, he prayed: Now someone is seriously ill. If he is destined to die, there will be an omen like this: the omen is upward, the inside and outside are intertwined, and the body is twists and turns; if he is not going to die, there will be an omen with the omen upward and the foot converging.
When asking the patient whether he is haunted by evil spirits, he prays: If this patient is possessed by evil spirits, please do not show omens. If he is not possessed by evil spirits, please show omens. There are evil spirits inside, and there are evil spirits outside, and there are evil spirits outside.
Divination asked whether the imprisoned person could be released from prison.
If it cannot come out, the omen is auspicious; if it can come out, the omen's feet are open and the omen's head is raised, indicating that there is something outside.
Divination asks whether the property can be obtained.
If you can get it, the sign will open up with your feet raised, and the inside and outside will correspond; if you can't get it, the sign will appear with the head raised and the feet converging.
The fortune teller asked whether the concubine and horse cow could be bought and sold as they wished.
If the wish is fulfilled, the head will be raised and the feet will be opened, and the inside and outside will correspond; if the wish is not fulfilled, the head will be raised and the feet will be contracted, and the omen will be like a horizontal auspicious sign.
Bu Wen attacked a gang of bandits that had gathered somewhere, and now he led several soldiers to attack.
To be able to win, the head should be raised, the feet should be raised, the body should be upright, the inside should be high, and the four sides should be down. Invincible, his feet are raised and his head is raised, his body is lower inside and higher outside.
Bu asked if he should travel.
When it is done, the first and second legs are open. It is not suitable to travel. If you have your feet covered and your head raised, it is in Ji'an. If it is An, it is not suitable to travel.
He asked if he could meet the bandits when he set out to attack them.
If you can see it, with your head raised and your feet covered with robes, there is something outside. If you can't see it, you will open your eyes and look up.
I asked if I could see the thief somewhere if I was waiting for him.
If you can see it, raise your head and feet, and keep your eyes open; if you cannot see it, raise your head and open your feet.
I heard that there was a thief and asked if the thief came.
If you come, your feet should be high on the outside and your head down on the inside. If you don't come, your feet should be spread wide and your head raised. If you are in good health, come later.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
卜迁徙去官不去。
去，足开有肣外首仰；不去，自去，即足肣，呈兆若横吉安。
卜居官尚吉不。
吉，呈兆身正，若横吉安；不吉，身节折，首仰足开。
卜居室家吉不吉。
吉，呈兆身正，若横吉安；不吉，身节折，首仰足开。
卜岁中禾稼孰不孰。
孰，首仰足开，内外自桥外自垂；不孰，足肣首仰有外。
卜岁中民疫不疫。
疫，首仰足肣，身节有彊外；不疫，身正首仰足开。
卜岁中有兵无兵。
无兵，呈兆若横吉安；有兵，首仰足开，身作外彊情。
卜见贵人吉不吉。
吉，足开首仰，身正，内自桥；不吉，首仰，身节折，足肣有外，若无渔。
卜请谒於人得不得。
得，首仰足开，内自桥；不得，首仰足肣有外。
卜追亡人当得不得。
得，首仰足肣，内外相应；不得，首仰足开，若横吉安。
卜渔猎得不得。
得，首仰足开，内外相应；不得，足肣首仰，若横吉安。
卜行遇盗不遇。
遇，首仰足开，身节折，外高内下；不遇，呈兆。
卜天雨不雨。
雨，首仰有外，外高内下；不雨，首仰足开，若横吉安。
卜天雨霁不霁。
霁，呈兆足开首仰；不霁，横吉。
命曰横吉安。
以占病，病甚者一日不死；不甚者卜日瘳，不死。
translation: 
The fortune teller asks whether transferring positions will result in loss of official position.
If you lose your official position, it is enough to open your clothes and look up; if you don't lose your official position, or you resign yourself, then you can just wear your clothes, and the omen is like Heng Ji'an.
Divination asks whether it will be auspicious to be an official.
If it is auspicious, it means that the body is upright, as if the horizontal axis is auspicious; if it is unlucky, it means that the body is twisted, with the head raised and the feet open.
The divination asks whether it is auspicious to be at home.
If it is auspicious, it means that the body is upright, as if the horizontal axis is auspicious; if it is unlucky, it means that the body is twisted, with the head raised and the feet spread.
Divination asks whether the crops will mature during the year.
When the body is mature, the head is raised and the feet are open, and the inside and outside are hanging from the outside of the bridge; when the body is not mature, the head is raised and the head is outside.
Divination asks if there will be any plague among the people during the year.
When there is an epidemic, the head is raised and the feet are stretched out, and the body joints are weak; when there is no epidemic, the body is upright, the head is raised, and the feet are spread out.
Divination asks if there will be any war during the year.
If there is no war, the omen will be like auspiciousness; if there is war, the head will be raised and the feet will be spread wide, and the body will show strong emotions.
Divination asks whether it will be auspicious to meet a noble person.
If it is auspicious, the feet are open and the head is raised, the body is upright, and the inner body is raised; if it is unlucky, the head is raised, the body is twisted, the feet are covered with outside, as if there is no fish.
Ask about whether there is any gain in meeting others.
If there is a harvest, the head is raised and the feet are open, and the inner self rises; if there is no harvest, the head is raised and the feet are open, and the outer body is lifted.
Divination asked if the fugitive could be caught.
When pursued, the head is raised and the feet are stretched out, and the inside and outside are corresponding; when the pursuit is not pursued, the head is raised and the feet are spread out, like Heng Ji'an.
Divination asked whether fishing and hunting would be fruitful.
If there is a harvest, the head is raised and the feet are opened, and the inside and outside are corresponding; if there is no harvest, the feet are lifted and the head is raised, like Heng Ji'an.
I am wondering if I will be robbed while traveling.
If you encounter a thief, your head will be raised and your feet will be spread out. Your body will twist and turn, with the outside high and the inside down. If you don't meet it, it will be a sign.
I asked if it would rain.
When it rains, the head is raised and the outside is high, and the outside is high and the inside is down; when it is not raining, the head is raised and the feet are spread wide, like Heng Ji'an.
I asked whether the rain would clear up.
If it is clear, it will be a sign of having your feet raised and your head raised; if it is not clear, it will be auspicious.
One omen is called Hengji'an.
According to this sign, ask about the condition. Those who are seriously ill will not die within a day. Those who are not seriously ill will recover on the day of the divination and will not die.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
系者重罪不出，轻罪环出；过一日不出，久毋伤也。
求财物买臣妾马牛，一日环得；过一日不得。
行者不行。
来者环至；过食时不至，不来。
击盗不行，行不遇；闻盗不来。
徙官不徙。
居官家室皆吉。岁稼不孰。
民疾疫无疾。
岁中无兵。
见人行，不行不喜。
请谒人不行不得。
追亡人渔猎不得。
行不遇盗。
雨不雨。
霁不霁。
命曰呈兆。
病者不死。
系者出。行者行。
来者来。
市买得。
追亡人得，过一日不得。
问行者不到。
命曰柱彻。
卜病不死。
系者出。行者行。
来者来。
市买不得。
忧者毋忧。追亡人不得。
命曰首仰足肣有内无外。
占病，病甚不死。
系者解。
求财物买臣妾马牛不得。
行者闻言不行。来者不来。
闻盗不来。
闻言不至。徒官闻言不徙。
居官有忧。
居家多灾。
岁稼中孰。
民疾疫多病。
系者不出。
见贵人见。
吉。
此横吉上柱外内自举足肣。
以卜有求得。
病不死。
系者毋伤，未出。行不行。
来不来。
见人不见。
百事尽吉。
此横吉上柱外内自举柱足以作。
以卜有求得。
病死环起。
系留毋伤，环出。
行不行。
来不来。
translation: 
Ask about the situation of the prisoners. Those who have committed serious crimes will not be released, and those who have committed minor crimes will not be released. However, there is no danger in being imprisoned for a long time.
I asked if I could get the concubine, horse, and oxen if I bought the property. You can get it in one day; after one day, you can't buy it.
Ask if it is advisable to travel.
Not suitable for travel. Ask if someone wants to come and has not come yet. Those who come are greeted; after the meal time, they will not come until it is over.
Asked if he would attack the thieves.
Don't go. You can't even come across it.
I heard that thieves are coming, will they come?
Won't come. Asked if there would be any transfer of official positions. Won't.
Asking whether it is auspicious to live in an official position or to live at home. Duji.
Asked how he was doing in those years. Not a good harvest.
Ask the people if there is any plague. No.
Ask if there will be any war during the year. No.
Ask if you want to see the noble man. go.
I won’t be happy if I don’t go.
Ask if you want to go see someone and ask for help.
If you don't go, you won't get help.
Ask about the results of hunting down fugitives, fishing and hunting. Nothing gained.
Ask if you will encounter theft while traveling.
There will be no theft.
Ask if it will rain.
It doesn't rain. Ask whether it will turn sunny or not. It won’t clear up.
An omen is called a sign. If you get this sign, ask the patient how he is doing.
Will not die. Ask how the prisoners are doing.
To be released. Asked whether to travel.
travel.
Ask the person who is coming if he has not come yet. Come.
No need to worry.
Asked if the fugitives could be recovered. cannot.
One kind of omen is called the head raised and the feet raised, and there is no inside but no outside.
If you get this sign, ask about your condition. She is very ill, but will not die.
Ask how the prisoner is doing.
will be released. Ask him how he wants to buy his concubines, horses and oxen.
He asked whether someone would come if he heard that he was coming.
Not coming.
Bu asked if he wanted to move his official position or not.
Do not migrate. Ask the resident official how he is doing. Worry.
Ask how home is. Many disasters.
Asked how the harvest was this year. Moderate harvest.
Ask people how the epidemic is going. Frequent diseases.
Ask if there will be any war during the year. have. Hearing this, he couldn't speak.
How about meeting the noble man?
lucky.
This is a sign that the upper pillar of Hengji will raise its feet from outside and inside.
According to this omen, ask what the result will be.
There can be gains. If you ask about the condition, you will not die.
Asked about the situation of the prisoner, there was no obstruction and he could not be released yet. Asked whether to travel. Not traveling.
Ask if the person who is coming is coming.
Not coming. Ask if you see anyone. not see.
Whatever you ask is good luck.
This is a good omen for the Hengji Shangzhu, the outer and inner self-lifting pillars.
There can be gains. Ask about the condition.
Disease and death are everywhere.
Ask how the prisoners are doing. Continue to be detained without hindrance. Ring out.
Asked whether to travel.
Not traveling. Ask if the person who is coming is coming.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
见人不见。
百事吉。
可以举兵。
此挺诈有外。
以卜有求不得。
病不死，数起。
系祸罪。
闻言毋伤。
行不行。
来不来。
此挺诈有内。
以卜有求不得。
病不死，数起。
系留祸罪无伤出。
行不行。
来者不来。
见人不见。
此挺诈内外自举。
以卜有求得。
病不死。
系毋罪。
行行。
来来。
田贾市渔猎尽喜。
此狐鲗。
以卜有求不得。病死，难起。
系留毋罪难出。可居宅。
可娶妇嫁女。
行不行。
来不来。
见人不见。
有忧不忧。
此狐彻。
以卜有求不得。
病者死。
系留有抵罪。
行不行。
来不来。
见人不见。
言语定。
百事尽不吉。
此首俯足肣身节折。
以卜有求不得。
病者死。
系留有罪。
望行者不来。
行行。
来不来。
见人不见。
此挺内外自垂。
以卜有求不晦。病不死，难起。
系留毋罪，难出。
行不行。来不来。
见人不见。
不吉。
此横吉榆仰首俯。
以卜有求难得。
病难起，不死。
系难出，毋伤也。
此横吉上柱足肣内自举外自垂。
以卜病者，卜日不死，其一日乃死。
首俯足诈有外无内。
病者占龟未已，急死。
卜轻失大，一日不死。
translation: 
Not coming. Ask if you see anyone. not see.
Ask whether everything is auspicious or not.
lucky. Asked if troops could be sent.
Can. This is quite deceptive and has an external sign.
According to this omen, ask what the result will be.
Nothing gained. Ask about the condition. Will not die, get better many times.
Ask how the prisoners are doing. If there is misfortune, you must pay for it.
I heard that there is a hindrance and ask whether there is any hindrance. No hindrance.
Asked whether to travel.
Not traveling. Ask if the person who is coming is coming.
Not coming. This is quite deceptive and has some hints.
According to this omen, ask what the result will be.
Nothing gained. Ask about the condition. Will not die, get better many times.
Ask how the prisoners are doing. If there is misfortune, one will be punished, but if there is no harm, one will be released.
Asked whether to travel.
Not traveling. Ask if the person who is coming is coming.
Not coming. Ask if you see anyone. not see.
This is a sign of internal and external fraud.
According to this omen, ask what the result will be.
There is gain.
Ask about the condition.
He won't die, so he asked how he was doing in prison.
Will not be convicted.
Asked whether to travel. travel.
Ask if the person who is coming is coming. Come.
If he continues to be detained, he will not be convicted and it will be difficult for him to be released.
Asked if housing could be built here. Can.
Asked if he could have a wife and a daughter.
Can. Asked whether to travel.
Not traveling. Ask if the person who is coming is coming.
Not coming. Ask if you see anyone. not see.
Ask if you have any worries.
Ask about the condition.
To die. Ask how the prisoners are doing.
If you continue to be detained, you must pay for your crime.
Asked whether to travel.
Not traveling.
Ask if the person who is coming is coming.
Not coming. Ask if you see anyone. not see.
Ask how the matter was discussed. will be determined.
Ask how various things are going. Neither is good luck.
This is the first sign of bending one's feet and body joints.
According to this omen, ask what the result will be.
Nothing gained.
Ask about the condition. To die.
Not coming. Ask whether to travel or not.
travel.
Ask if the person who is coming is coming.
Not coming. Ask if you see anyone. not see.
This is a sign of self-reliance both internally and externally.
If he continues to be detained, he will not be sentenced and it will be difficult for him to be released.
Asked whether to travel. Not traveling.
Ask if the person who is coming is coming.
Not coming. Ask if you see anyone. not see.
Ask if it's good or not.
Unlucky. This is a sign that Hengjiyu will raise its head and bow down.
According to this omen, ask what the result will be. Hard to gain.
Ask about the condition. It’s hard to get out of bed, but you won’t die.
Ask how the prisoners are doing. It is difficult to release, and there is no hindrance.
Asked if he could settle down here, get a wife and a daughter. Can. This is a sign that the upper pillar of the Hengji Zhengzheng body will be lifted up internally and externally.
According to this omen, ask about the condition. It is predicted that if you don't die on that day, you will die one day.
The capital city is full of deceit, but there are no internal signs.
The patient died immediately before the turtle occupation was over.
If you ask lightly in divination, you will lose something big. Won't die in a day.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
首仰足肣。
以卜有求不得。
以系有罪。
人言语恐之毋伤。
行不行。
见人不见。
大论曰：外者人也，内者自我也；外者女也，内者男也。
首俯者忧。
大者身也，小者枝也。
大法，病者，足肣者生，足开者死。
行者，足开至，足肣者不至。
行者，足肣不行，足开行。
有求，足开得，足肣者不得。
系者，足肣不出，开出。
其卜病也，足开而死者，内高而外下也。
translation: 
The head is raised and the feet are raised as a sign.
Nothing gained. Ask how the prisoners are doing.
will be sentenced.
Ask what would happen if someone used words to threaten.
No hindrance. Asked whether to travel. Not traveling.
Ask if you see anyone. not see.
Roughly speaking: the foreigners mentioned in the divination book refer to other people.
Guilt refers to the self.
Sometimes it refers to women on the outside and men on the inside. Shoufu means worry. Big, refers to the body. Small refers to the last branch of Zhaowen.
The simple reason for distinguishing Zhaowen is that when it comes to the condition, those with enough Zhaowen can live, while those with enough Zhaowen can die.
If you ask people who travel, the Zhaowen is enough to reach the destination. The ones with enough legs can't reach it.
Asked whether to travel. It is not suitable for those who are wearing footwear to travel, but it is okay for those who are wearing footwear.
Divination asks what will be the result of seeking. Those who have enough will gain, and those who have enough will not gain.
When asked about the imprisoned people, those with their feet covered cannot be released, but those with their feet open can be released.
Those who asked for illness died because they were high on the inside and low on the outside.


