Chunk 0: 
original: 
淮南厉王长者，高祖少子也，其母故赵王张敖美人。
高祖八年，从东垣过赵，赵王献之美人。
厉王母得幸焉，有身。
赵王敖弗敢内宫，为筑外宫而舍之。
及贯高等谋反柏人事发觉，并逮治王，尽收捕王母兄弟美人，系之河内。
厉王母亦系，告吏曰： 得幸上，有身。
吏以闻上，上方怒赵王，未理厉王母。
厉王母弟赵兼因辟阳侯言吕后，吕后妒，弗肯白，辟阳侯不彊争。
及厉王母已生厉王，恚，即自杀。
吏奉厉王诣上，上悔，令吕后母之，而葬厉王母真定。
真定，厉王母之家在焉，父世县也。
高祖十一年月，淮南王黥布反，立子长为淮南王，王黥布故地，凡四郡。
上自将兵击灭布，厉王遂即位。
厉王蚤失母，常附吕后，孝惠、吕后时以故得幸无患害，而常心怨辟阳侯，弗敢发。
及孝文帝初即位，淮南王自以为最亲，骄蹇，数不奉法。
translation: 
Liu Chang, King Li of Huainan, was the youngest son of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty. His mother was the concubine of Zhang Ao, the former king of Zhao.
In the eighth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, Emperor Gao passed by Zhao from Dongyuan County, and King Zhao dedicated King Li's mother to him.
She was favored by the emperor and became pregnant.
From then on, King Zhao Zhang Ao did not dare to let her live in the palace, so he built another palace for her to live in.
The following year, the imperial court discovered that Zhao Xiangguan and others were plotting to kill Emperor Gaozu in Bairen County. King Zhao was also arrested and charged. His mother, brothers and concubines were all arrested and imprisoned in the Hanoi County government.
King Li's mother said to the jailer in prison: I am favored by the emperor and am pregnant.
The jailer reported truthfully that the emperor was angry because of King Zhao's incident and ignored the complaint of King Li's mother.
Zhao Jian, the younger brother of King Li's mother, asked Piyang Hou Shenshi to inform Empress Lu. Queen Lu was jealous and refused to plead with the emperor, so Piyang Hou stopped trying to persuade him.
King Li's mother was resentful after giving birth to Queen Li, so she committed suicide.
The jailer carried King Li to the emperor. The emperor regretted it and ordered Queen Lu to raise him and bury King Li's mother in Zhending County.
Zhending is the hometown of King Li's mother, and her ancestors lived there.
In July of the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu, King Yingbu of Huainan rebelled, so the emperor appointed his son Liu Chang as King of Huainan, putting him in charge of the four counties and fiefdoms that were formerly under Yingbu's territory.
The emperor personally led an army to go out and annihilated Yingbu, so King Li took the throne of Huainan.
King Li lost his mother when he was young and grew up dependent on Empress Lu. Therefore, he was able to avoid political disasters during the reign of Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Lu. However, he always resented Marquis Piyang in his heart and did not dare to take action.
When Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, King Huainan considered himself the closest to the emperor. He was arrogant and arrogant, and repeatedly violated laws and disciplines.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
上以亲故，常宽赦之。
三年，入朝。甚横。
从上入苑囿猎，与上同车，常谓上 大兄 。
厉王有材力，力能扛鼎，乃往请辟阳侯。
辟阳侯出见之，即自袖铁椎椎辟阳侯，令从者魏敬刭之。
厉王乃驰走阙下，肉袒谢曰： 臣母不当坐赵事，其时辟阳侯力能得之吕后，弗争，罪一也。赵王如意子母无罪，吕后杀之，辟阳侯弗争，罪二也。吕后王诸吕，欲以危刘氏，辟阳侯弗争，罪三也。
臣谨为天下诛贼臣辟阳侯，报母之仇，谨伏阙下请罪。
孝文伤其志，为亲故，弗治，赦厉王。
当是时，薄太后及太子诸大臣皆惮厉王，厉王以此归国益骄恣，不用汉法，出入称警跸，称制，自为法令，拟於天子。
translation: 
The emperor thought of his brother-sister relationship and often tolerated and pardoned his faults.
In the third year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, King Huainan professed his own country and entered the dynasty. His attitude was very arrogant.
He followed the emperor to the imperial garden for hunting, rode in the same car with the emperor, and often called the emperor "big brother".
King Li was talented and brave, and could lift a heavy cauldron with all his strength, so he went to the mansion of Piyang Hou to seek an audience.
When Marquis Piyang came out to see him, he took out an iron mallet from his sleeve and struck Marquis Piyang, and ordered his attendant Wei Jing to cut off Marquis Piyang's head.
Afterwards, King Li galloped to the palace and apologized to the emperor, saying: "My mother should not have been convicted of Zhao's rebellion. At that time, if Marquis Piyang had tried his best to save her, he would have been able to get help from Empress Lu, but he did not try hard. This was the first crime." King Zhao Ruyi and his son were not guilty. Empress Lu deliberately killed them, but Marquis Piyang did not try to dissuade them. This was the second crime. Empress Lu made a relative of the Lu family king, intending to threaten the Liu family, and Marquis Piyang did not stand up to fight. This is the third crime.
I killed the treacherous minister Piyanghou for the people of the world, and avenged my mother. I came to the court to kneel down and plead guilty.
The emperor's desire to pity King Li, and out of brotherly love, did not punish him and pardoned him.
During this period, the Empress Dowager Bo, the Crown Prince, and all the ministers were all afraid of King Li. Therefore, King Li became more arrogant and unruly after returning to the country. He did not act in accordance with the court decrees. He issued orders to warn Qingdao when entering and leaving the palace. He also called the orders he issued "zhi" and made laws by himself, imitating the emperor.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
六年，令男子但等七十人与棘蒲侯柴武太子奇谋，以輂车四十乘反谷口，令人使闽越、匈奴。
事觉，治之，使使召淮南王。淮南王至长安。
丞相臣张仓、典客臣冯敬、行御史大夫事宗正臣逸、廷尉臣贺、备盗贼中尉臣福昧死言：淮南王长废先帝法，不听天子诏，居处无度，为黄屋盖乘舆，出入拟於天子，擅为法令，不用汉法。
及所置吏，以其郎中春为丞相，聚收汉诸侯人及有罪亡者，匿与居，为治家室，赐其财物爵禄田宅，爵或至关内侯，奉以二千石，所不当得，欲以有为。
大夫但、士五开章等七十人与棘蒲侯太子奇谋反，欲以危宗庙社稷。
使开章阴告长，与谋使闽越及匈奴发其兵。
开章之淮南见长，长数与坐语饮食，为家室娶妇，以二千石俸奉之。
开章使人告但，已言之王。
春使使报但等。
吏觉知，使长安尉奇等往捕开章。
translation: 
In the sixth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, King Li asked seventy men without official titles to discuss with Chai Qi, the son of Chai Wu, Marquis of Jipu, and planned to use forty large trucks to rebel in Gukou County, and sent envoys to Minyue and Xiongnu to contact various places.
The imperial court found out about this, punished the rebels, and sent envoys to summon King Huainan to the capital. King Huainan came to Chang'an.
Prime Minister Zhang Bao, Dian Kechen Feng Jing, Imperial Censor Shizong Zhengchenyi, Tingwei Chenhe, and the thief Lieutenant Chenfu risked death. They reported: Huainan King Liu Chang abandoned the grammar of the late emperor, disobeyed the emperor's edict, and engaged in non-compliance with the law in daily life. He made his own chariot with a yellow satin umbrella that the emperor rode.
He appointed officials without authorization, appointed his doctor Zhongchun as the prime minister of the country, collected people from various counties and vassal states, as well as fugitives who had committed crimes, hid them in places to live, settled their families, and granted them money, materials, titles, salaries, and houses. Some people were even granted titles to marquises in Guannei, enjoying the favor of two thousand shi. King Huainan wanted to do evil by giving them everything they didn't deserve.
The doctor Dan, together with seventy people including the guilty and disgraced official Kaizhang, conspired with Chai Qi, the son of Chai Wu, the Marquis of Ji Pu, to cause harm to the ancestral temple and the state.
They asked Kai Zhang to secretly report to Liu Chang and discuss sending people to contact Minyue and the Huns to send troops to respond.
Kai Zhang went to Huainan to meet Liu Chang. Liu Chang met and had banquets with him many times, and also helped him get married and marry him, and provided him with a salary of two thousand dan.
Open the chapter and tell people to report to the doctor that everything has been settled with the King of Huainan.
Prime Minister Chun also sent envoys to inform Dan.
After the officials in the DPRK discovered this, they sent Wei Qi and others from Chang'an County to arrest Kai Zhang.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
长匿不予，与故中尉蕑忌谋，杀以闭口。
为棺椁衣衾，葬之肥陵邑，谩吏曰 不知安在 。
又详聚土，树表其上，曰 开章死，埋此下 。
及长身自贼杀无罪者一人；令吏论杀无罪者六人；为亡命弃市罪诈捕命者以除罪；擅罪人，罪人无告劾，系治城旦舂以上十四人；赦免罪人，死罪十八人，城旦舂以下五十八人；赐人爵关内侯以下九十四人。
前日长病，陛下忧苦之，使使者赐书、枣脯。
长不欲受赐，不肯见拜使者。
南海民处庐江界中者反，淮南吏卒击之。
陛下以淮南民贫苦，遣使者赐长帛五千匹，以赐吏卒劳苦者。
长不欲受赐，谩言曰 无劳苦者 。
南海民王织上书献璧皇帝，忌擅燔其书，不以闻。
translation: 
Liu Changzang refused to make friends with the people, and secretly discussed with the former lieutenant Ji, and killed Kaizhang and silenced him.
They bought a coffin, mourning clothes, and blankets, and buried Kai Zhang in Feiling. They deceived the officials handling the case and said they didn't know where Kai Zhang was.
Later, a tomb was forged and a mark was erected on the tomb, saying "Kaizhang's body is buried here."
Liu Chang also personally killed one innocent person; ordered officials to kill six innocent people based on the crime; hid escaped death row prisoners and captured those who did not escape to take the blame for them; he added crimes arbitrarily, leaving the victims with nowhere to redress their grievances, and sentenced 14 people to more than four years of hard labor; he also pardoned the criminals without authorization and exempted 18 people from the death penalty. Fifty-eight people have served four years or less of hard labor; ninety-four people have been given the title of Guannei Marquis or less.
Some time ago, Liu Chang was seriously ill. Your Majesty was worried about him and sent envoys to give him letters and preserved dates.
Liu Chang did not want to accept the gift, so he refused to receive the envoy.
The Nanhai people living in Lujiang County rebelled, and the officers and soldiers of Huainan County were ordered to conquer them.
His Majesty was sympathetic to the poverty of the people in Huainan, and sent an envoy to give Liu Chang five thousand pieces of cloth, ordering them to be forwarded to the hardworking and poor among the officers and soldiers.
Liu Chang did not want to accept it and lied that there were no hard workers in the army.
Wang Zhi, a native of Nanhai, wrote a letter to offer the jade jade to the emperor. He should not burn the letter and refuse to submit it.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
吏请召治忌，长不遣，谩言曰 忌病 。
春又请长，原入见，长怒曰 女欲离我自附汉 。
长当弃市，臣请论如法。
制曰： 朕不忍致法於王，其与列侯二千石议。
臣仓、臣敬、臣逸、臣福、臣贺昧死言：臣谨与列侯吏二千石臣婴等四十三人议，皆曰 长不奉法度，不听天子诏，乃阴聚徒党及谋反者，厚养亡命，欲以有为 。
臣等议论如法。
制曰： 朕不忍致法於王，其赦长死罪，废勿王。
臣仓等昧死言：长有大死罪，陛下不忍致法，幸赦，废勿王。
臣请处蜀郡严道邛邮，遣其子母从居，县为筑盖家室，皆廪食给薪菜盐豉炊食器席蓐。
臣等昧死请，请布告天下。
制曰： 计食长给肉日五斤，酒二斗。
令故美人才人得幸者十人从居。他可。
尽诛所与谋者。於是乃遣淮南王，载以辎车，令县以次传。
是时袁盎谏上曰： 上素骄淮南王，弗为置严傅相，以故至此。
且淮南王为人刚，今暴摧折之。臣恐卒逢雾露病死。
陛下为有杀弟之名，柰何！
translation: 
Officials in the DPRK requested to summon Ji to discuss the crime, but Liu Chang refused to order, falsely claiming that "Ji was ill."
The Prime Minister of the State Chun asked Liu Chang for permission. Liu Chang was angry and said that you wanted to betray me and join the Han Dynasty, so he sentenced Chun to death.
The ministers and others request your majesty to punish Liu Chang according to law.
The emperor issued an edict saying: I cannot bear to sanction the King of Huainan according to law. Let the princes and the two thousand stone officials discuss it.
Chen Cang, Chen Jing, Chen Yi, Chen Fu, and Chen He reported the crime of risking death: I have discussed it with forty-three people including the princes, the officials Chen Ying, and the two thousand stone officials. Everyone said that Liu Chang did not obey the law and the emperor's edict. He secretly recruited party members and conspirators, and treated those who were guilty and fled, out of evil intentions.
The ministers and others decided that Liu Chang should be punished according to law.
The emperor's instructions said: I cannot bear to punish King Huainan according to law. I should pardon his death penalty and dethrone him.
Chen Cang and others committed the crime of risking death: Liu Chang was guilty of committing a crime of death. His Majesty could not bear to punish him according to law, so he graciously pardoned him and deposed him from the throne.
The ministers and others requested that Liu Chang be sent to the Qionglai Mountain Post Pavilion in Yandao County, Shu County, and that his concubines and concubines with children should live with him. The county office would build a house for them and provide them with grain, firewood, vegetables, salt, tempeh, cooking utensils, utensils, and mats.
I risked my death and requested to inform the world about this matter.
The emperor issued an edict saying: "Please allow Chang Liu to eat five kilograms of meat and two measures of wine every day."
He ordered ten concubines who had been favored in the past to live with him in Shu County. All others are allowed to play.
The imperial court executed all those who participated in the rebellion, and then ordered the King of Huainan to set off, carrying prisoners in baggage carts along the way, and ordered all counties along the way to pick him up in turn.
At that time, Yuan Anquan remonstrated with the emperor and said: The emperor has always been arrogant and pampered the King of Huainan, and did not arrange for him to have a stern tutor and minister to persuade him, which is why he fell into this situation.
Besides, the King of Huainan has a strong temperament. Now that he is being brutally tortured, I am worried that he will suddenly catch wind and cold and die of illness on the way.
What if Your Majesty ends up with the reputation of killing his younger brother?


Chunk 5: 
original: 
上曰： 吾特苦之耳，今复之。
县传淮南王者皆不敢发车封。淮南王乃谓侍者曰： 谁谓乃公勇者？
吾安能勇！
吾以骄故不闻吾过至此。人生一世间，安能邑邑如此！
乃不食死。
至雍，雍令发封，以死闻。
上哭甚悲，谓袁盎曰： 吾不听公言，卒亡淮南王。
盎曰： 不可柰何，原陛下自宽。
上曰： 为之柰何？
盎曰： 独斩丞相、御史以谢天下乃可。
上即令丞相、御史逮考诸县传送淮南王不发封餽侍者，皆弃市。
乃以列侯葬淮南王於雍，守冢三十户。
孝文八年，上怜淮南王，淮南王有子四人，皆七八岁，乃封子安为阜陵侯，子勃为安阳侯，子赐为阳周侯，子良为东成侯。
translation: 
The emperor said: I just let him taste the pain, and I will let him come back.
Those who were escorting King Huainan from various counties along the way did not dare to open the door of the prison car, so King Huainan said to his servant: Who said you, me, and I are brave men?
How can I still be brave!
I ended up in this predicament because I was too arrogant to hear my own faults. How can one endure such depression in this life!
So he went on a hunger strike and died.
When the prison car arrived at Yong County, the county magistrate opened the sealed door and reported the news of Liu Chang's death to the emperor.
The emperor cried very sadly and said to Yuan Ang: I didn't listen to your advice, and King Huainan died.
Yuan An said: There is nothing we can do about the matter. I hope your majesty can forgive himself.
The emperor said: What should we do?
Yuan Ang replied: It is enough to kill the prime minister and censor to apologize to the people of the world.
So the emperor ordered the prime ministers and censors to arrest, torture, and escort the king of Huainan from all counties. Anyone who refused to eat in Kaifeng would be thrown out of the market and executed.
Then the King of Huainan was buried in Yong County according to the etiquette of the princes, and thirty families were arranged to guard the tomb and offer sacrifices.
In the eighth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, the emperor took pity on King Huainan. King Huainan had a son, both seven or eight years old, so he named his son Liu An the Marquis of Fuling, his son Liu Bo the Marquis of Anyang, his son Liu Ci the Marquis of Yangzhou, and his son Liu Liang the Marquis of Dongcheng.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
孝文十二年，民有作歌歌淮南厉王曰： 一尺布，尚可缝；一斗粟，尚可舂。
兄弟二人不能相容。
上闻之，乃叹曰： 尧舜放逐骨肉，周公杀管蔡，天下称圣。
何者？
不以私害公。
天下岂以我为贪淮南王地邪？
乃徙城阳王王淮南故地，而追尊谥淮南王为厉王，置园复如诸侯仪。
孝文十六年，徙淮南王喜复故城阳。
上怜淮南厉王废法不轨，自使失国蚤死，乃立其三子：阜陵侯安为淮南王，安阳侯勃为衡山王，阳周侯赐为庐江王，皆复得厉王时地，参分之。
东城侯良前薨，无後也。
孝景三年，吴楚七国反，吴使者至淮南，淮南王欲发兵应之。
translation: 
In the twelfth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, some people composed a song about the plight of King Li of Huainan, saying: A foot of linen can be sewed; a bucket of millet can be pounded.
The two brothers are incompatible.
When the emperor heard this, he sighed and said: Yao and Shun exiled their families, Duke Zhou killed Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai, and the people of the world praised them for their wisdom.
Why?
Because they do not compromise justice due to personal feelings.
Do the people of the world think that I am coveting the fiefdom of the King of Huainan?
So Liu happy, the king of Yang who moved to Chengcheng, went to take charge of the original fiefdom of King Huainan. He posthumously named the late King of Huainan as King Li, and built a cemetery for him according to the rituals of the princes.
In the sixteenth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, the emperor moved to Huainan and Wang Liu happy returned to his hometown in Chengyang.
The emperor pitied King Li of Huainan for abandoning the royal law and plotting evil, causing trouble and losing the country and died early, so he named his three sons: Fuling Hou Liu An as the King of Huainan, Anyang Hou Liu Bo as the Hengshan King, and Yangzhou Hou Liu Ci as the Lujiang King. They all regained the fiefdoms of King Li and shared three shares.
Liu Liang, Marquis of Dongcheng, had died before and had no descendants.
In the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled. Envoys from the state of Wu went to Huainan to contact them, and the king of Huainan wanted to send troops to respond.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
其相曰： 大王必欲发兵应吴，臣原为将。
王乃属相兵。
淮南相已将兵，因城守，不听王而为汉；汉亦使曲城侯将兵救淮南：淮南以故得完。
吴使者至庐江，庐江王弗应，而往来使越。
吴使者至衡山，衡山王坚守无二心。
孝景四年，吴楚已破，衡山王朝，上以为贞信，乃劳苦之曰： 南方卑湿。
徙衡山王王济北，所以襃之。
及薨，遂赐谥为贞王。
庐江王边越，数使使相交，故徙为衡山王，王江北。
淮南王如故。
淮南王安为人好读书鼓琴，不喜弋猎狗马驰骋，亦欲以行阴德拊循百姓，流誉天下。
时时怨望厉王死，时欲畔逆，未有因也。
translation: 
The Prime Minister of Huainan said: If the king insists on sending troops to respond to the king of Wu, I would like to be the commander-in-chief of the army.
The king of Huainan handed over the army to him.
After the Huainan State Prime Minister obtained military power, he commanded the army to occupy the city to defend the rebels. He did not listen to the Huainan King's orders and served the court. The court also sent Qucheng Hou Gujie to lead an army to rescue Huainan: Huainan State was thus preserved.
The envoy from the State of Wu came to Lujiang, but the King of Lujiang refused to respond, and instead sent someone to contact the State of Yue.
The envoy from the State of Wu went to Hengshan. The king of Hengshan was loyal to the imperial court and defended the city without hesitation.
In the fourth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, the Wu and Chu rebels had been defeated. King Hengshan came to Beijing to see him. The emperor believed that he was loyal and trustworthy, so he comforted him and said: The land in the south is low-lying and humid.
As a reward, he was appointed King of Hengshan to take charge of the area north of Jishui.
After his death, he was granted the title of King Zhen.
King Lujiang's fiefdom was adjacent to the Kingdom of Yue, and he repeatedly sent envoys to make friends with it. Therefore, he was moved north to become King of Hengshan and took charge of the area north of the Yangtze River.
King Huainan is the same as before.
Liu An, the king of Huainan, liked reading and playing the piano, but he didn't like shooting and letting dogs and horses race. He also wanted to do good deeds secretly to appease the people and spread his good name throughout the world.
He often complained about the death of King Li and often wanted to rebel against the court, but he had no chance.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
及建元二年，淮南王入朝。
素善武安侯，武安侯时为太尉，乃逆王霸上，与王语曰： 方今上无太子，大王亲高皇帝孙，行仁义，天下莫不闻。
即宫车一日晏驾，非大王当谁立者！
淮南王大喜，厚遗武安侯金财物。
阴结宾客，拊循百姓，为畔逆事。
建元六年，彗星见，淮南王心怪之。
或说王曰： 先吴军起时，彗星出长数尺，然尚流血千里。
今彗星长竟天，天下兵当大起。
王心以为上无太子，天下有变，诸侯并争，愈益治器械攻战具，积金钱赂遗郡国诸侯游士奇材。
诸辨士为方略者，妄作妖言，谄谀王，王喜，多赐金钱，而谋反滋甚。
淮南王有女陵，慧，有口辩。
王爱陵，常多予金钱，为中诇长安，约结上左右。
元朔三年，上赐淮南王几杖，不朝。
淮南王王后荼，王爱幸之。
translation: 
In the second year of Emperor Xiaowu's founding, King Huainan went to Beijing to see the emperor.
Tianfan, the Marquis of Wu'an, who had always been good friends with him, was serving as a Taiwei at that time. Tian Fu greeted King Huainan at Bashang and told him: Now the emperor has no prince. Your Majesty, you are the grandson of Emperor Gao. Your benevolence and righteousness are known to everyone in the world.
If the emperor dies one day, who should succeed him if not you?
The King of Huainan was very happy and gave Marquis Wuan a generous gift of gold, silver, money, and items.
The king of Huainan secretly made friends with guests, appeased the people, and planned rebellion.
In the sixth year of Jianyuan, a comet appeared, and the king of Huainan felt strange.
Someone advised the King of Huainan: In the past, when the Wu army rose up, the comet appeared only a few feet long, but the battle was still bloody for thousands of miles.
Now that the comets have grown all over the sky, there will be a great war in the world.
The King of Huainan thought that the emperor had no crown prince, and if something happened in the world, all the princes and kings would fight for the throne together, so he stepped up his efforts to organize weapons and offensive equipment, and accumulated gold and money to bribe the county guards, princes, lobbyists and talented people.
All the eloquent and eloquent people gave advice to the King of Huainan, but they all made up absurd and heresies to flatter the King of Huainan. The king of Huainan was very happy and rewarded them with a lot of money, but he was even more interested in rebellion.
The King of Huainan has a daughter named Liu Ling. She is smart and eloquent.
The King of Huainan loved Liu Ling and often gave her more money to spy on the inner affairs of the court in Chang'an and make friends with people close to the emperor.
In the third year of Yuanshuo, the emperor rewarded King Huainan with a walking stick and allowed him not to go to Beijing to see him.
The king and queen of Huainan were named Tu, and the king of Huainan favored her very much.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
王后生太子迁，迁取王皇太后外孙修成君女为妃。
王谋为反具，畏太子妃知而内泄事，乃与太子谋，令诈弗爱，三月不同席。
王乃详为怒太子，闭太子使与妃同内三月，太子终不近妃。
妃求去，王乃上书谢归去之。
王后荼、太子迁及女陵得爱幸王，擅国权，侵夺民田宅，妄致系人。
元朔五年，太子学用剑，自以为人莫及，闻郎中雷被巧，乃召与戏。
被一再辞让，误中太子。
太子怒，被恐。
此时有欲从军者辄诣京师，被即原奋击匈奴。
太子迁数恶被於王，王使郎中令斥免，欲以禁後，被遂亡至长安，上书自明。
诏下其事廷尉、河南。
translation: 
The queen gave birth to the prince Liu Qian, and Liu Qian married the daughter of Xiuchengjun, the grandson of the queen mother, as his concubine.
The King of Huainan planned to create a tool for rebellion. He was afraid that the prince's concubine would leak the secret to the court after knowing it, so he planned with the prince and asked him to pretend that he did not love the concubine and not sleep with her at the same table for three months.
So the king of Huainan pretended to be angry with the prince, locked him up, and made him live in the same room with his concubine for three months, but the prince never got close to her.
The concubine asked to leave, so the King of Huainan sent an apology to the court and sent her back to her parents' home.
Queen Tu, Prince Liu Qian and daughter Liu Ling were favored by the King of Huainan. They monopolized state power, invaded people's fields and houses, and arbitrarily arrested innocent people.
In the fifth year of Yuanshuo, the prince learned to use the sword and thought that his swordsmanship was superb and unmatched. Hearing that Lang Zhonglei was a master of swordsmanship, he summoned him to compete.
Lei was repeatedly given in, and later accidentally injured the prince.
The prince was angry and Lei was frightened.
At this time, anyone who wanted to join the army was immediately sent to the capital. Lei Fang immediately decided to join the army to fight against the Huns.
Prince Liu Qian repeatedly spoke ill of Lei Qui to King Huainan, so King Huainan ordered Lang Zhongling to dismiss him from his official position as a warning to future generations. So Lei fled to Chang'an and wrote to the court to complain about his grievances.
The emperor ordered Tingwei and Henan County to review the matter.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
河南治，逮淮南太子，王、王后计欲无遣太子，遂发兵反，计犹豫，十馀日未定。
会有诏，即讯太子。
当是时，淮南相怒寿春丞留太子逮不遣，劾不敬。
王以请相，相弗听。
王使人上书告相，事下廷尉治。
踪迹连王，王使人候伺汉公卿，公卿请逮捕治王。
王恐事发，太子迁谋曰： 汉使即逮王，王令人衣卫士衣，持戟居庭中，王旁有非是，则刺杀之，臣亦使人刺杀淮南中尉，乃举兵，未晚。
是时上不许公卿请，而遣汉中尉宏即讯验王。
王闻汉使来，即如太子谋计。
汉中尉至，王视其颜色和，讯王以斥雷被事耳，王自度无何，不发。
中尉还，以闻。
公卿治者曰： 淮南王安拥阏奋击匈奴者雷被等，废格明诏，当弃市。
translation: 
Henan County decided to arrest the prince of Huainan. The king and queen of Huainan planned not to send the prince, but took the opportunity to send troops to rebel. However, after repeated planning and hesitation, I could not make a decision for more than ten days.
At the same time, another edict was issued from the court to summon the prince on the spot.
At this time, the Huainan Prime Minister was angry that the Prime Minister of Shouchun County withheld the order to arrest the prince and accused him of "disrespect".
The King of Huainan asked the Prime Minister not to pursue the matter, but the Prime Minister refused to listen.
The King of Huainan sent a letter to accuse the Prime Minister, and the Emperor handed the matter over to the Tingwei for trial.
There were clues during the handling of the case that implicated King Huainan. King Huainan sent people to secretly inquire about the opinions of the ministers in the court. The minister requested that King Huainan be arrested and punished.
The King of Huainan was afraid of what would happen, so Prince Liu Qian offered advice: If envoys from the imperial court came to arrest my father, my father could have people wearing guard clothes and holding halberds stand in the courtyard. If anything unexpected happens around my father, he would be assassinated. I will also send people to assassinate the lieutenant of Huainan Kingdom, so it is not too late to launch an army.
At this time, the emperor did not approve the petition of the ministers, and instead sent Yin Hong, the lieutenant of the court, to the Huainan Kingdom to inquire and verify the case on the spot with the King of Huainan.
After hearing the news, the king of Huainan immediately made preparations according to the prince's plan.
After the imperial lieutenant arrived, King Huainan saw that he had a gentle attitude and only asked him the reason for deposing Lei Gui. He figured that he would not be convicted of any crime, so he did not have an attack.
The lieutenant returned to the court and reported the status of the inquiry.
The person responsible for handling the case among the ministers said: Huainan King Liu An obstructed Lei Bian from joining the army to attack the Xiongnu and other actions, which undermined the execution of the emperor's clear edict and should be sentenced to death for abandoning the market.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
诏弗许。
公卿请废勿王，诏弗许。
公卿请削五县，诏削二县。
使中尉宏赦淮南王罪，罚以削地。
中尉入淮南界，宣言赦王。
王初闻汉公卿请诛之，未知得削地，闻汉使来，恐其捕之，乃与太子谋刺之如前计。
及中尉至，即贺王，王以故不发。
其後自伤曰： 吾行仁义见削，甚耻之。
然淮南王削地之後，其为反谋益甚。
诸使道从长安来，为妄妖言，言上无男，汉不治，即喜；即言汉廷治，有男，王怒，以为妄言，非也。
王日夜与伍被、左吴等案舆地图，部署兵所从入。
王曰： 上无太子，宫车即晏驾，廷臣必徵胶东王，不即常山王，诸侯并争，吾可以无备乎！
且吾高祖孙，亲行仁义，陛下遇我厚，吾能忍之；万世之後，吾宁能北面臣事竖子乎！
王坐东宫，召伍被与谋，曰： 将军上。
被怅然曰： 上宽赦大王，王复安得此亡国之语乎！
translation: 
The emperor ordered not to do so.
The ministers requested that he be dethroned, but the emperor issued an edict not to allow it.
The minister requested to seize five of his county fiefs, and the emperor issued an edict to seize two counties.
The imperial court sent Lieutenant Yin Hong to pardon King Huainan's sins and cut off the land as punishment.
The lieutenant entered the territory of Huainan and announced a pardon for the King of Huainan.
The King of Huainan initially heard that the ministers of the imperial court requested to kill him, but he did not know that he had been pardoned and lost his land. When he heard that the imperial envoys had arrived, he was afraid that he would be arrested, so he and the prince prepared to assassinate him according to the previous plan.
When the lieutenant arrived, he immediately congratulated King Huainan on his pardon, so King Huainan did not rise up.
Afterwards, he lamented to himself and said: I did benevolent and righteous things but my land was cut off. This is too shameful.
However, after the Huainan king cut off the land, the conspiracy to plot a rebellion intensified.
Envoys came from Chang'an and created absurd and deceptive heresies. If they claimed that the emperor had no children and the Han Dynasty was not at peace, the King of Huainan would be happy to hear it. If they said that the Han Dynasty was peaceful and the emperor had children, the King of Huainan would be angry and thought it was nonsense and unbelievable.
The King of Huainan, Wu Bei, Zuo Wu and others checked the map day and night and planned the march route.
The King of Huainan said: The emperor has no prince. Once he dies, the court ministers will definitely summon the King of Jiaodong, or the King of Changshan, and all the princes and kings will compete for the throne. How can I not be prepared!
Besides, I am the grandson of the great ancestor, and I personally practice benevolence and righteousness. Your Majesty treats me kindly, and I can endure his rule. How can I serve your little son and become a minister in the north after your Majesty's eternity?
The King of Huainan was sitting in the East Palace. He summoned Wu Bei to discuss matters together and called him: "General, come to the palace."
Wu Bei said unhappily: The emperor has just forgiven and pardoned the king, how can he say such things as to destroy the country?


Chunk 12: 
original: 
臣闻子胥谏吴王，吴王不用，乃曰 臣今见麋鹿游姑苏之台也 。
今臣亦见宫中生荆棘，露霑衣也。
王怒，系伍被父母，囚之三月。
复召曰： 将军许寡人乎？
被曰： 不，直来为大王画耳。
臣闻聪者听於无声，明者见於未形，故圣人万举万全。
昔文王一动而功显于千世，列为三代，此所谓因天心以动作者也，故海内不期而随。
此千岁之可见者。
夫百年之秦，近世之吴楚，亦足以喻国家之存亡矣。
臣不敢避子胥之诛，原大王毋为吴王之听。
昔秦绝圣人之道，杀术士，燔诗书，弃礼义，尚诈力，任刑罚，转负海之粟致之西河。
translation: 
I heard that Wu Zixu was admonishing the King of Wu, but the King of Wu did not respond, so Wu Zixu said, "I will soon see elk wandering in and out of Gusu Terrace."
Now I will also see that the palace is full of thorns and the dew is soaking my clothes.
The King of Huainan was furious and imprisoned Qi Wu's parents for three months.
Then the King of Huainan summoned Wu again and asked, "General, will you agree to this?"
Wu was answered: No, I'm just here to make plans for the king.
I heard that people with good hearing can hear movement in silence, and people with good vision can see signs before they are formed. Therefore, the wisest and most moral saints are always foolproof in their actions.
In the past, King Wen of Zhou led the Zhou people to march eastward to destroy Shang Zhou. One action showed his achievements for thousands of generations, making the Zhou Dynasty join the "Three Dynasties" after Xia and Shang. This is the so-called result of obeying the will of God, so people all over the world followed him unanimously.
This is a historical fact that can be seen thousands of years ago.
As for the Qin Dynasty a hundred years ago, and the two countries Wu and Chu in modern times, they are enough to explain the survival of the country.
I dare not escape the fate of Wu Zixu being killed, and I hope that the king will not make the same mistake as the king of Wu who did not listen to his loyal advice.
In the past, the Qin Dynasty abandoned the way of saints, killed Confucian scholars, burned "Books" and "Books", abandoned etiquette and justice, advocated hypocrisy and violence, and relied on punishment to force the people to transport millet from the seaside to the Xihe River.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
当是之时，男子疾耕不足於糟，女子纺绩不足於盖形。
遣蒙恬筑长城，东西数千里，暴兵露师常数十万，死者不可胜数，僵尸千里，流血顷亩，百姓力竭，欲为乱者十家而五。
又使徐福入海求神异物，还为伪辞曰： 臣见海中大神，言曰： 汝西皇之使邪？
臣答曰： 然。
汝何求？
曰： 原请延年益寿药。
神曰： 汝秦王之礼薄，得观而不得取。
即从臣东南至蓬莱山，见芝成宫阙，有使者铜色而龙形，光上照天。
於是臣再拜问曰： 宜何资以献？
海神曰： 以令名男子若振女与百工之事，即得之矣。
秦皇帝大说，遣振男女三千人，资之五穀种种百工而行。
徐福得平原广泽，止王不来。
於是百姓悲痛相思，欲为乱者十家而六。
translation: 
At that time, men worked hard but could not eat enough chaff, and women weaved and made linen but had no clothes to cover their bodies.
Emperor Qin sent Meng Tian to build the Great Wall, which stretched thousands of miles from east to west. There were often hundreds of thousands of soldiers guarding the border and sleeping in the open for many years. The dead were countless. Zombies roamed for thousands of miles, bleeding spread over hundreds of acres. The people were exhausted. Five out of ten families wanted to rebel.
Emperor Qin sent Xu Fu to the East China Sea to visit gods and rare objects. When Xu Fu returned, he made up a lie and said: When I saw the great god of the sea, he asked: Are you the envoy of the Emperor of the West?
The minister replied: Yes.
What have you come to seek?
The minister replied: I hope to find the elixir that can prolong life.
Poseidon said: Your gifts from King Qin are meager. You can admire the elixir but cannot take it.
Immediately, Poseidon's followers traveled southeast to Penglai Mountain and saw a palace built with Ganoderma lucidum grass. There was an envoy whose skin was like bronze and his body was shaped like a dragon. His radiance shone upward to reflect the sky.
So I bowed twice and asked, "What gift should I give?"
Poseidon said: If you offer boys and girls from good families and the skills of various craftsmen, you can get the elixir.
The emperor was overjoyed and sent 3,000 boys and girls to the East China Sea, as well as providing grain seeds and various craftsmen to the God of Poseidon.
On the way, Xu Fu found a vast wilderness and lake, so he stayed there and established himself as king without returning to the court.
As a result, the people mourned and missed their relatives, and six out of ten families wanted to rebel.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
又使尉佗逾五岭攻百越。
尉佗知中国劳极，止王不来，使人上书，求女无夫家者三万人，以为士卒衣补。
秦皇帝可其万五千人。
於是百姓离心瓦解，欲为乱者十家而七。
客谓高皇帝曰： 时可矣。
高皇帝曰： 待之，圣人当起东南间。
不一年，陈胜吴广发矣。
高皇始於丰沛，一倡天下不期而响应者不可胜数也。
此所谓蹈瑕候间，因秦之亡而动者也。
百姓原之，若旱之望雨，故起於行陈之中而立为天子，功高三王，德传无穷。
今大王见高皇帝得天下之易也，独不观近世之吴楚乎？
夫吴王赐号为刘氏祭酒，复不朝，王四郡之众，地方数千里，内铸消铜以为钱，东煮海水以为盐，上取江陵木以为船，一船之载当中国数十两车，国富民众。
行珠玉金帛赂诸侯宗室大臣，独窦氏不与。
计定谋成，举兵而西。
破於大梁，败於狐父，奔走而东，至於丹徒，越人禽之，身死绝祀，为天下笑。
夫以吴越之众不能成功者何？
translation: 
Emperor Qin also sent Zhao Tuo, the captain of Nanhai County, to cross the Five Ridges to attack Baiyue.
Zhao Tuo knew that the Central Plains was extremely exhausted, so he stayed in South Vietnam and proclaimed himself king instead of returning. He sent a letter asking the court to recruit 30,000 women without husbands to sew clothes for the soldiers.
Emperor Qin agreed to give him fifteen thousand people.
As a result, the people's hearts were scattered, and seven out of ten families wanted to rebel.
The guest said to Emperor Gao: The time has come.
Emperor Gao said: Wait and see, when a saint rises up in the southeast.
Within a year, Chen Sheng and Wu Guang rebelled.
Emperor Gao started to rebel in Peixian County, Fengyi, and as soon as he launched his initiative, countless people from all over the world responded.
This is the so-called stepping into the gap to spy on the opportunity and taking advantage of the Qin Dynasty's peril to take action.
The people looked forward to him, just like they look forward to rain in a drought, so he was able to rise up in the army and be supported as the emperor. His achievements were higher than those of Xia Yu, Shang Tang and King Wen of Zhou, and his kindness was passed down to future generations endlessly.
Now the king has seen how easy it was for Emperor Gao to conquer the world, but why can't he see the fall of Wu Chu in modern times?
The King of Wu was given the title of Liu Shi Jijiu. He was highly respected and favored, and he was not required to go to Beijing for court as usual. He was in charge of the people of the four counties, covering an area of ​​thousands of miles. He could smelt copper and cast coins at home, boil seawater and sell salt in the east, and collect Jiangling wood to build large ships up the river.
The King of Wu used pearls, jade, gold and silk to bribe the princes, nobles and ministers of the court, but he did not give it to the emperor's wife Dou.
The rebellion plan was completed, and the king of Wu sent troops to march westward.
However, the Wu army was captured in Daliang and defeated in Hufu. The King of Wu fled eastward and went to Dantu, where he was captured by the Yue people and died, making everyone in the world laugh at him.
Why couldn't Wu Chu accomplish great feats even though he had such a large army?


Chunk 15: 
original: 
诚逆天道而不知时也。
方今大王之兵众不能十分吴楚之一，天下安宁有万倍於秦之时，原大王从臣之计。
大王不从臣之计，今见大王事必不成而语先泄也。
臣闻微子过故国而悲，於是作麦秀之歌，是痛纣之不用王子比干也。
故孟子曰 纣贵为天子，死曾不若匹夫 。
是纣先自绝於天下久矣，非死之日而天下去之。
今臣亦窃悲大王弃千乘之君，必且赐绝命之书，为群臣先，死於东宫也。
於是气怨结而不扬，涕满匡而横流，即起，历阶而去。
王有孽子不害，最长，王弗爱，王、王后、太子皆不以为子兄数。
translation: 
It is really contrary to the way of heaven and not aware of the current situation.
Today, the king's military strength is less than one-tenth of Wu Chu's, but the peace of the world is ten thousand times better than that of Emperor Qin. I hope that the king will listen to the opinions of his ministers.
If the king does not listen to the advice of his ministers, he will inevitably reveal the secret to himself without saying anything when he sees the big event.
I heard that Jizi was very sad when he passed by the old capital of the Yin Dynasty, so he composed "Song of Maixiu". This song is to lament that King Zhou did not listen to the advice of Prince Bigan and his country perished.
Therefore, "Mencius" said that King Zhou was the emperor, but he was not as good as the common people when he died.
This is because King Zhou had already renounced the world before his death, and it was not until his death that the world turned their backs on him.
Now I also secretly feel sad that if the king abandons the dignity of the princes and kings, the court will definitely give the king a book of death, causing the king to die in the East Palace before other ministers.
As a result, Wu was filled with resentment and looked gloomy. Tears filled his eyes and flowed down his face. He immediately stood up, walked down the steps and left.
The King of Huainan had a son named Liu Buhai who was a concubine. He was the oldest. The King of Huainan did not like him, and neither the queen nor the prince regarded him as his son or brother.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
不害有子建，材高有气，常怨望太子不省其父；又怨时诸侯皆得分子弟为侯，而淮南独二子，一为太子，建父独不得为侯。
建阴结交，欲告败太子，以其父代之。
太子知之，数捕系而榜笞建。
建具知太子之谋欲杀汉中尉，即使所善寿春庄芷以元朔六年上书於天子曰： 毒药苦於口利於病，忠言逆於耳利於行。
今淮南王孙建，材能高，淮南王王后荼、荼子太子迁常疾害建。
建父不害无罪，擅数捕系，欲杀之。
今建在，可徵问，具知淮南阴事。
书闻，上以其事下廷尉，廷尉下河南治。
是时故辟阳侯孙审卿善丞相公孙弘，怨淮南厉王杀其大父，乃深购淮南事於弘，弘乃疑淮南有畔逆计谋，深穷治其狱。
河南治建，辞引淮南太子及党与。
translation: 
Liu Buhai had a son named Liu Jian, who was very proud and resentful that the prince did not come to greet his father. He also complained that at that time, all the princes and kings could ennoble their children as princes, but the King of Huainan only had two sons, one of whom became the prince, but Liu Jian's father was not allowed to make princes.
Liu Jian secretly made friends and wanted to inform and defeat the crown prince and replace him with his father.
When the prince learned of this, he imprisoned and tortured Liu Jian many times.
Liu Jian was fully aware of the prince's plot to kill the imperial lieutenant, so he asked Zhuang Zhi, a native of Shouchun County with whom he had a good personal relationship, to write to the emperor in the sixth year of Yuanshuo: Poison is bitter to the mouth and good for the disease, and loyal words are harsh to the ears and good for deeds.
Nowadays, King Huainan's grandson Liu Jian is very talented. Queen Tu of Huainan and Tu's son Prince Liu Qian are often jealous and persecute him.
Liu Jian's father, Liu Buhu, was not guilty, but they detained him many times and tried to kill him.
Now Liu Jian is here and can be summoned for questioning. He knows all the secrets of King Huainan.
After the report was sent to the emperor, the emperor handed the matter over to Tingwei, who then sent it to Henan County for trial.
At this time, Shen Qing, the grandson of the former Piyang Marquis, had a good relationship with the Prime Minister Gongsun Hong. He hated Huainan King Li for killing his grandfather, so he tried his best to frame the Huainan King against Gongsun Hong. Therefore, Gongsun Hong suspected that the Huainan King had a treasonous conspiracy and decided to investigate the case in depth.
The Henan County Government interrogated Liu Jian, and he confessed to the Huainan Crown Prince and his cronies.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
淮南王患之，欲发，问伍被曰： 汉廷治乱？
伍被曰： 天下治。
王意不说，谓伍被曰： 公何以言天下治也？
被曰： 被窃观朝廷之政，君臣之义，父子之亲，夫妇之别，长幼之序，皆得其理，上之举错遵古之道，风俗纪纲未有所缺也。
重装富贾，周流天下，道无不通，故交易之道行。
南越宾服，羌僰入献，东瓯入降，广长榆，开朔方，匈奴折翅伤翼，失援不振。
虽未及古太平之时，然犹为治也。
王怒，被谢死罪。
王又谓被曰： 山东即有兵，汉必使大将军将而制山东，公以为大将军何如人也？
被曰： 被所善者黄义，从大将军击匈奴，还，告被曰： 大将军遇士大夫有礼，於士卒有恩，众皆乐为之用。
骑上下山若蜚，材幹绝人。
translation: 
The King of Huainan was worried that the situation was serious and wanted to raise his troops to rebel, so he asked Wu, "Is the world of the Han Dynasty peaceful or not?"
Wu was answered: The world is at peace.
The king of Huainan was unhappy and said to Wu Sui: On what basis do you say the world is at peace?
Wu was answered: I observed the government privately. The etiquette and righteousness between the monarch and his ministers, the affection between father and son, the distinction between husband and wife, and the order between elders and children were all in line with the proper principles. The emperor's administration followed the ancient way of governing the country, and there were no defects in customs and laws.
Wealthy merchants laden with goods traveled all over the world, and the roads were open everywhere, so trade flourished.
South Vietnam surrendered, the Qiangbo people donated their products, Dongou Nei moved to the Han Dynasty, the imperial court expanded Chang Yusai and opened up Shuofang County, which made the Huns lose their wings and become languid without assistance.
Although this is not as good as the peaceful and prosperous times of ancient times, it can be regarded as a stable world.
The king of Huainan was furious, and Wu Ban quickly pleaded guilty to death.
The king of Huainan said to Wu Cheng again: If there is a military war east of Mount Laoshan, the imperial court will send the general Wei Qing to lead the troops to suppress it. What kind of person do you think the general is?
Wu Bei said: My good friend Huang Yi once followed the general to attack the Huns. When he returned, he told me: The general was polite to the scholar-bureaucrats and kind to the soldiers, and everyone was willing to serve him.
The general's ability to ride a horse up and down mountains as fast as flying is outstanding.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
被以为材能如此，数将习兵，未易当也。
及谒者曹梁使长安来，言大将军号令明，当敌勇敢，常为士卒先。
休舍，穿井未通，须士卒尽得水，乃敢饮。
军罢，卒尽已度河，乃度。
皇太后所赐金帛，尽以赐军吏。
虽古名将弗过也。
王默然。
淮南王见建已徵治，恐国阴事且觉，欲发，被又以为难，乃复问被曰： 公以为吴兴兵是邪非也？
被曰： 以为非也。
吴王至富贵也，举事不当，身死丹徒，头足异处，子孙无遗类。
臣闻吴王悔之甚。
原王孰虑之，无为吴王之所悔。
王曰： 男子之所死者一言耳。
且吴何知反，汉将一日过成皋者四十馀人。
translation: 
I think he is so powerful in martial arts and has led troops in many battles and is proficient in military affairs that he will not be easily resisted.
He also paid a visit to Cao Liang when he returned from his mission to Chang'an and said that the general had strict orders, was brave in fighting the enemy, and always took the lead.
When setting up camp and resting, and the well is not dug, every soldier must have a drink of water before he is willing to drink.
When the army returned from the expedition, he crossed the river after the soldiers had finished crossing.
He gave all the money and silk that the Empress Dowager rewarded to his officers.
Even the famous generals of ancient times have no one who can compare with him.
King Huainan was speechless after hearing this.
When the King of Huainan saw Liu Jian being summoned for trial, he was afraid that the conspiracy of rebellion in the country would be exposed, and wanted to raise an army first. However, Wu was considered to be difficult to achieve, so the King of Huainan asked him again: Do you think it was right or wrong for King Wu to raise troops to rebel?
Wu Bei said: I think it is wrong.
The king of Wu was extremely wealthy, but he did something wrong. He died, his disciples died, and his family was divided, causing disaster to his descendants and no one survived.
I heard that King Wu was very regretful.
I hope your Majesty will consider this matter carefully and not have the same regrets as King Wu again.
The King of Huainan said: A man can die for the words he speaks.
Moreover, how could King Wu know how to rebel? He actually allowed more than forty Han generals to break through the Chenggao Pass in one day.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
今我令楼缓先要成皋之口，周被下颍川兵塞轘辕、伊阙之道，陈定发南阳兵守武关。
河南太守独有雒阳耳，何足忧。
然此北尚有临晋关、河东、上党与河内、赵国。
人言曰 绝成皋之口，天下不通 。
据三川之险，招山东之兵，举事如此，公以为何如？
被曰： 臣见其祸，未见其福也。
王曰： 左吴、赵贤、硃骄如皆以为有福，什事九成，公独以为有祸无福，何也？
被曰： 大王之群臣近幸素能使众者，皆前系诏狱，馀无可用者。
王曰： 陈胜、吴广无立锥之地，千人之聚，起於大泽，奋臂大呼而天下响应，西至於戏而兵百二十万。
今吾国虽小，然而胜兵者可得十馀万，非直適戍之众，釠凿棘矜也，公何以言有祸无福？
被曰： 往者秦为无道，残贼天下。
translation: 
Now I order Lou Huan to first seize the Chenggao Pass, order Yingchuan County, which was captured in Zhou Dynasty, to lead troops to block the roads of Shenyuan Pass and Yique Pass, and Chen Ding to lead the army of Nanyang County to guard Wuguan.
The governor of Henan County only has Luoyang, so there is nothing to worry about.
However, there are Linjin Pass, Hedong County, Shangdang County, Hanoi County and Zhao State to the north.
People say that if the Chenggao Pass is blocked, the world will be impassable.
We relied on the Chenggao Pass, which is the land of Sanchuan, to mobilize the troops from the counties east of Mount Laoshan to respond. What do you think of such an uprising?
Wu was answered: I see its disasters but not its blessings.
The King of Huainan said: Zuo Wu, Zhao Xian and Zhu Jiaoru all believe that they are lucky and will succeed nine times out of ten. You just think that there is no blessing but misfortune, why?
Wu was said: Among the ministers who were favored by the king and could usually command everyone, they were all imprisoned in the criminal cases ordered by the emperor last time, and the remaining ones could not be reused.
The King of Huainan said: Chen Sheng and Wu Guang, who had no place to stand, gathered a thousand people and started a uprising in Daze Township. They shouted for rebellion, and the whole country responded. When they went west to play in the water, there were 1.2 million people with them.
Although our country is small today, there are more than 100,000 strong men who are qualified to fight. They are by no means a mob forced to guard the border, and they do not hold wooden crossbows and halberd handles. Why do you say there is disaster but no luck?
Wu Bei said: In the past, the Qin Dynasty was tyrannical and cruel, and harmed the people of the world.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
兴万乘之驾，作阿房之宫，收太半之赋，发闾左之戍，父不宁子，兄不便弟，政苛刑峻，天下熬然若焦，民皆引领而望，倾耳而听，悲号仰天，叩心而怨上，故陈胜大呼，天下响应。
当今陛下临制天下，一齐海内，汎爱蒸庶，布德施惠。
口虽未言，声疾雷霆，令虽未出，化驰如神，心有所怀，威动万里，下之应上，犹影响也。
而大将军材能不特章邯、杨熊也。
大王以陈胜、吴广谕之，被以为过矣。
王曰： 苟如公言，不可徼幸邪？
被曰： 被有愚计。
王曰： 柰何？
被曰： 当今诸侯无异心，百姓无怨气。
朔方之郡田地广，水草美，民徙者不足以实其地。
translation: 
The imperial court requisitioned tens of thousands of private vehicles, built the Epang Palace, collected most of the people's income as taxes, and sent the poor people from the family to remote frontiers. As a result, the father could not protect his son's safety, and the elder brother could not let his younger brother live a comfortable life. The government's decrees were harsh and the punishments were harsh, and the people of the world endured all kinds of torture and were almost exhausted. The people craned their necks in hope, listened attentively, raised their heads to the sky and cried out in sorrow, beating their chests and resenting the emperor. Therefore, Chen Sheng shouted for rebellion, and everyone in the world responded immediately.
Now the emperor is ruling the world from his dynasty, unifying all parts of the country, loving the people of the world, and extending virtues and benefits.
Even if he does not speak, his voice spreads as fast as thunder; even if the edict is not promulgated, the rapid promotion of education seems to have magical power; if he has a thought in his heart, it will move thousands of miles, and the people will respond to the Lord, just like the shadow follows the shape and the echo responds to the voice.
Moreover, the talents of General Wei Qing are not comparable to those of Qin generals Zhang Han and Yang Xiong.
Therefore, I think it is inappropriate for your Majesty to describe yourself as Chen Sheng and Wu Guang rebelling against Qin.
The King of Huainan said: If it is really like what you said, can't it be a lucky success?
Wu Bei said: I have a stupid plan.
King Huainan said: What should we do?
Wu Bei replied: Today, the princes have no doubts about the imperial court, and the people have no resentment towards the imperial court.
However, Shuofang County has vast fields and rich water and grass, and the people who have migrated are not enough to fully develop the area.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
臣之愚计，可伪为丞相御史请书，徙郡国豪桀任侠及有耐罪以上，赦令除其罪，产五十万以上者，皆徙其家属朔方之郡，益发甲卒，急其会日。
又伪为左右都司空上林中都官诏狱书，诸侯太子幸臣。
如此则民怨，诸侯惧，即使辩武随而说之，傥可徼幸什得一乎？
王曰： 此可也。
虽然，吾以为不至若此。
於是王乃令官奴入宫，作皇帝玺，丞相、御史、大将军、军吏、中二千石、都官令、丞印，及旁近郡太守、都尉印，汉使节法冠，欲如伍被计。
使人伪得罪而西，事大将军、丞相；一日发兵，使人即刺杀大将军青，而说丞相下之，如发蒙耳。
王欲发国中兵，恐其相、二千石不听。
王乃与伍被谋，先杀相、二千石；伪失火宫中，相、二千石救火，至即杀之。
translation: 
The minister's stupid plan was to forge memorials written by the prime minister and censor to the emperor, requesting the relocation of powerful men, righteous men, and prisoners sentenced to more than 100 edicts from various counties to fill the borders.
Then he forged the case-handling documents issued by the emperor personally issued by the officials of Du Sikong, Shanglinyuan and the capital of Zongzheng Mansion to arrest the princes and favored ministers of the princes.
If this happens, the people will be resentful and the princes will be afraid. Then let the voluptuous lobbyists persuade them to rebel. Maybe they can get a tenth chance of success!
The King of Huainan said: This plan is feasible.
Although your worries are reasonable, I don't think it is that difficult to achieve this.
So the King of Huainan ordered his slaves to enter the palace and forged the emperor's seal, the prime minister, the imperial censor, the general, the military historian, Zhong Erqian Shi, the official seals of the various officials in the capital and county magistrates, the official seals of the prefects and captains of neighboring counties, and the official hats worn by the court envoys and judges, all planning to act according to Wu Qui's plan.
The King of Huainan also sent people to pretend to be convicted and escape from the Huainan Kingdom and go west to Chang'an to serve the general and the prime minister. He intended to have them assassinate the general Wei Qing immediately if an army broke out, and then persuade the prime minister to surrender. It would be as easy as removing a covering cloth.
The King of Huainan wanted to mobilize the army in the country, but he was worried that his prime minister and ministers would not obey his orders.
He and Wu Bei conspired to kill the Prime Minister and the Minister of Two Thousand Stones first. To this end, they pretended that there was a fire in the palace. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Two Thousand Stones would come to put out the fire, and they would be killed as soon as they arrived.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
计未决，又欲令人衣求盗衣，持羽檄，从东方来，呼曰 南越兵入界 ，欲因以发兵。
乃使人至庐江、会稽为求盗，未发。
王问伍被曰： 吾举兵西乡，诸侯必有应我者；即无应，柰何？
被曰： 南收衡山以击庐江，有寻阳之船，守下雉之城，结九江之浦，绝豫章之口，彊弩临江而守，以禁南郡之下，东收江都、会稽，南通劲越，屈彊江淮间，犹可得延岁月之寿。
王曰： 善，无以易此。
急则走越耳。
於是廷尉以王孙建辞连淮南王太子迁闻。
上遣廷尉监因拜淮南中尉，逮捕太子。
至淮南，淮南王闻，与太子谋召相、二千石，欲杀而发兵。
召相，相至；内史以出为解。
translation: 
Before the plan was decided, they planned to send people wearing the clothes of soldiers who captured thieves, holding feathers, and galloping from the south, shouting "South Vietnamese soldiers have entered the border", so as to take the opportunity to send troops to march.
So they sent people to Lujiang County and Kuaiji County to implement the strategy of pretending to hunt down the thieves, but did not send troops immediately.
The king of Huainan asked Wu Bei: I am leading my troops to advance westward, and the princes must have people to respond. What if no one responds?
Wu was replied: You can seize the Hengshan Kingdom to the south and attack Lujiang County, seize Xunyang's warships, guard the city of Xiaji, strangle the mouth of Jiujiang River, block the passage of the Yuzhang River from the north to the Yangtze River at the mouth of Pengli Lake, and attack with strong bows and crossbows. Fortify the Yangtze River to prevent the Nanjun army from moving down the river; then attack the Jiangdu Kingdom and Kuaiji County in the east, and make friends with the powerful Yue Kingdom in the south. In this way, they can bend and stretch freely between the Yangtze and Huaihe Rivers and delay for some time.
King Huainan said: Very good, there is no better strategy.
If the situation is critical, go to Yue.
So Tingwei reported to the emperor that the confession of Huainan Prince Liu Jian implicated Huainan Prince Liu Qian.
The emperor sent Wei Lin to seize the opportunity to visit the lieutenant of Huainan Kingdom and arrest the prince.
When Ting Wei came to the Huainan Kingdom, the King of Huainan learned about it and planned with the prince to summon the Prime Minister and the Minister of Two Thousand Stones to come and kill them before sending troops.
The minister of state was summoned to the palace, and the minister of state came; the internal history was able to escape because he was out.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
中尉曰： 臣受诏使，不得见王。
王念独杀相而内史中尉不来，无益也，即罢相。
王犹豫，计未决。
太子念所坐者谋刺汉中尉，所与谋者已死，以为口绝，乃谓王曰： 群臣可用者皆前系，今无足与举事者。
王以非时发，恐无功，臣原会逮。
王亦偷欲休，即许太子。
太子即自刭，不殊。
伍被自诣吏，因告与淮南王谋反，反踪迹具如此。
吏因捕太子、王后，围王宫，尽求捕王所与谋反宾客在国中者，索得反具以闻。
上下公卿治，所连引与淮南王谋反列侯二千石豪杰数千人，皆以罪轻重受诛。
衡山王赐，淮南王弟也，当坐收，有司请逮捕衡山王。
天子曰： 诸侯各以其国为本，不当相坐。
与诸侯王列侯会肄丞相诸侯议。
translation: 
The lieutenant said: I am welcoming the envoys sent by the emperor and cannot come to see the king.
The King of Huainan thought that it would be of no use to kill only the Prime Minister, but the internal history and the lieutenant refused to come, so he gave up and let the Prime Minister go.
He hesitated again and again, unable to decide on a plan of action.
The prince thought that what he had committed was a conspiracy to assassinate a lieutenant of the imperial court, and that the people involved in the conspiracy were dead, so he thought that all the survivors would be cut off, so he said to his father: "All the ministers who can be relied on have been arrested before, but now there is no one who can be relied upon to carry out the task."
If you send troops when the time is not ripe, I am afraid you will not succeed. I am willing to go to the court to be arrested.
King Huainan also secretly wanted to give up, so he agreed to the prince's request.
So the prince cut his neck and committed suicide, but he did not die.
Wu Ban went to the law enforcement officials alone and reported his participation in the Huainan King's rebellion, and gave all the details of the rebellion.
The legal officials therefore arrested the prince and the queen, surrounded the palace, searched and arrested all the guests of King Huainan who participated in the rebellion, and also found the utensils of the rebellion, and then reported the matter to the emperor.
The emperor handed the case to the ministers for trial. The case implicated several thousand princes, two thousand stones, and local tycoons who had conspired with the Huainan King. They were all sentenced to death according to the severity of the crime.
Liu Ci, the king of Hengshan, was the younger brother of the king of Huainan. He was found guilty of the same crime and should be arrested. The official responsible for handling the case requested the arrest of the king of Hengshan.
The Emperor said: Each prince and king regards his own feudal state as the foundation of his life and should not involve each other.
You, together with the princes and princes, go to meet with the prime minister to discuss.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
赵王彭祖、列侯臣让等四十三人议，皆曰： 淮南王安甚大逆无道，谋反明白，当伏诛。
胶西王臣端议曰： 淮南王安废法行邪，怀诈伪心，以乱天下，荧惑百姓，倍畔宗庙，妄作妖言。
春秋曰 臣无将，将而诛 。
安罪重於将，谋反形已定。
臣端所见其书节印图及他逆无道事验明白，甚大逆无道，当伏其法。
而论国吏二百石以上及比者，宗室近幸臣不在法中者，不能相教，当皆免官削爵为士伍，毋得宦为吏。
其非吏，他赎死金二斤八两。
以章臣安之罪，使天下明知臣子之道，毋敢复有邪僻倍畔之意。
translation: 
After discussion, forty-three people including King Pengzu of Zhao and Cao Xiang, the princes of Lieutenant, all said: King Liu An of Huainan is extremely treasonous and immoral. His crime of rebellion is clear and he should be punished without mercy.
Liu Duan, the king of Jiaoxi, expressed his opinion: Liu An, the king of Huainan, ignored the king's law and did evil things. He was deceitful, disrupted the world, confused the people, betrayed his ancestors, and spread heresy.
"Spring and Autumn" once said that ministers should not lead the people to cause chaos, and they should be killed if they lead the people to cause chaos.
Liu An's crime was more serious than the rebellion, and his rebellion was a foregone conclusion.
I have seen clear evidence of his forged documents, talismans, seals, maps and other treasonous and immoral facts. His crime is extremely treasonous and immoral, and he should be executed according to law.
As for the officials in the Huainan Kingdom with an official rank of more than 200 shi and less than 200 shi, as well as the favored ministers of the clan who have not violated the law, if they cannot fulfill their duties to correct the Huainan King and prevent the rebellion of the King of Huainan, they should be removed from their posts, have their titles reduced, and be demoted to soldiers, and they will not be allowed to serve as officials again in the future.
Those other criminals who are not officials can use two pounds and eighty taels of gold to pay for the death penalty.
The imperial court should publicly expose Liu An's crimes so that everyone in the world will clearly understand the way of being a minister and will not dare to have evil ambitions to betray the emperor.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
丞相弘、廷尉汤等以闻，天子使宗正以符节治王。
未至，淮南王安自刭杀。
王后荼、太子迁诸所与谋反者皆族。
天子以伍被雅辞多引汉之美，欲勿诛。
廷尉汤曰： 被首为王画反谋，被罪无赦。
遂诛被。
国除为九江郡。
衡山王赐，王后乘舒生子三人，长男爽为太子，次男孝，次女无采。
又姬徐来生子男女四人，美人厥姬生子二人。
衡山王、淮南王兄弟相责望礼节，间不相能。
衡山王闻淮南王作为畔逆反具，亦心结宾客以应之，恐为所并。
元光六年，衡山王入朝，其谒者卫庆有方术，欲上书事天子，王怒，故劾庆死罪，彊榜服之。
衡山内史以为非是，卻其狱。
translation: 
Prime Minister Gongsun Hong, Tingwei Zhang Tang and others reported everyone's opinions, and the emperor sent Zongzheng holding a talisman to judge the Huainan King.
Before Zongzheng arrived in Huainan, King Liu An of Huainan had committed suicide in advance.
Queen Tu, Prince Liu Qian and all those who collaborated in the rebellion were all killed.
When the emperor of Huainan, Liu An, was dissuaded from rebelling because of Wu, his words were elegant and upright. He said a lot of good things about the government and wanted not to kill him.
Ting Wei Zhang Tang said: Wu Ban was the first to plot a rebellion for the King of Huainan, and his crime cannot be forgiven.
So Wu Bei was killed.
Huainan Kingdom was abolished as Jiujiang County.
The king of Hengshan was named Liu Ci, and Queen Chengshu gave birth to three children. The eldest son Liu Shuang was established as the prince, the second son Liu Xiao, and the third daughter Liu Wucai.
Concubine Xu Lai also gave birth to four children, and concubine Jue Ji gave birth to two children.
The two brothers, the King of Hengshan and the King of Huainan, blamed each other and complained about etiquette. Their relationship was estranged and they were not harmonious.
When the King of Hengshan heard that the King of Huainan was making utensils for rebellion, he also made friends with guests to guard against him, fearing that he would annex him.
In the sixth year of Yuanguang, King Hengshan came to Beijing to pay homage. His visitor, Wei Qing, knew alchemy and wanted to write a letter asking him to serve the emperor. The King of Hengshan was very angry and deliberately accused Wei Qing of committing a capital crime and tortured him to force him to admit it.
The domestic history of Hengshan thought it was wrong and refused to hear the case.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
王使人上书告内史，内史治，言王不直。
王又数侵夺人田，坏人冢以为田。
有司请逮治衡山王。天子不许，为置吏二百石以上。
衡山王以此恚，与奚慈、张广昌谋，求能为兵法候星气者，日夜从容王密谋反事。
王后乘舒死，立徐来为王后。
厥姬俱幸。
两人相妒，厥姬乃恶王后徐来於太子曰： 徐来使婢蛊道杀太子母。
太子心怨徐来。
徐来兄至衡山，太子与饮，以刃刺伤王后兄。
王后怨怒，数毁恶太子於王。
太子女弟无采，嫁弃归，与奴奸，又与客奸。
太子数让无采，无采怒，不与太子通。
王后闻之，即善遇无采。
translation: 
The King of Hengshan ordered people to write a letter to accuse the internal history. The internal history was forced to handle the case, but he bluntly said that the King of Hengshan was wrong.
The King of Hengshan repeatedly usurped other people's fields and destroyed other people's tombs to create fields.
The head of the relevant department requested that King Hengshan be arrested and held accountable for his crimes, but the emperor did not agree. He only took back his original power to appoint officials with an official rank of more than 200 shi in his country and replaced them with appointments by the emperor.
The King of Hengshan was filled with resentment and conspired with Xi Ci and Zhang Guangchang. They visited people who were familiar with the art of war and could observe the stars to predict good and bad luck. They encouraged the King of Hengshan day and night to plot a rebellion.
Queen Chengshu died, and the King of Hengshan made Xu Lai his queen.
Jue Ji also received favor at the same time.
The two were jealous of each other, and Jue Ji spoke ill of Queen Xu Lai to the prince. She said: Xu Lai ordered his maid to kill the prince's mother with false accusations and sorcery.
From then on, the prince resented Xu Lai.
Xu Lai's brother came to Hengshan Kingdom. The prince drank with him and stabbed the queen's brother with a knife during the dinner.
The queen was resentful and angry, and repeatedly slandered the prince to King Hengshan.
The prince's sister Liu Wucai was divorced and returned to her natal family after her marriage. She committed adultery with a slave and a guest.
The prince blamed Liu Wocai many times, and Wucai was very angry and stopped interacting with the prince.
When the queen learned of this, she showed great solicitude.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
无采及中兄孝少失母，附王后，王后以计爱之，与共毁太子，王以故数击笞太子。
元朔四年中，人有贼伤王后假母者，王疑太子使人伤之，笞太子。
後王病，太子时称病不侍。
孝、王后、无采恶太子： 太子实不病，自言病，有喜色。
王大怒，欲废太子，立其弟孝。
王后知王决废太子，又欲并废孝。
王后有侍者，善舞，王幸之，王后欲令侍者与孝乱以汙之，欲并废兄弟而立其子广代太子。
太子爽知之，念后数恶己无已时，欲与乱以止其口。
王后饮，太子前为寿，因据王后股，求与王后卧。
王后怒，以告王。
王乃召，欲缚而笞之。
太子知王常欲废己立其弟孝，乃谓王曰： 孝与王御者奸，无采与奴奸，王彊食，请上书。
translation: 
Wucai and his second brother Liu Xiao lost their mother when they were young, so they could not help but rely on Queen Xu Lai. She cleverly used tricks to protect them and let them slander the prince together. Therefore, the King of Hengshan beat the prince severely many times.
In the fourth year of Yuan Shuo, someone killed or injured the queen's stepmother. King Hengshan suspected that the prince had instigated the crime, so he beat the prince severely with a bamboo board.
Later, King Hengshan became ill, and the prince often claimed that he was ill and refused to serve.
Liu Xiao, the queen, and Liu Wucai all said bad things about him: The prince was actually not sick, but he claimed to be sick, with a happy face.
The King of Hengshan was furious and wanted to abolish his title of crown prince and replace him with his younger brother Liu Xiao.
The queen knew that King Hengshan had decided to depose the crown prince, so she wanted to depose Liu Xiao as well.
The queen had a maid who was good at dancing, and King Hengshan dotes on her. The queen planned to have the maid have an affair with Liu Xiao to taint him, so that she could depose the prince brothers and make her son Liu Guang the prince.
The prince Liu Shuang knew the queen's plot and thought that the queen had repeatedly slandered him and refused to give up, so he planned to have an affair with her to silence her.
One time when the queen was drinking, the prince came up to toast her birthday. Taking advantage of the situation, he sat on the queen's lap and asked to sleep with her.
The queen was very angry and told the king of Hengshan.
So the King of Hengshan summoned the prince and planned to tie him up and beat him severely.
The prince knew that his father often wanted to depose him and establish his younger brother Liu Xiao, so he said to him: Liu Xiao has committed adultery with his father's favored maid, and Wucai has committed adultery with his slaves. Father, please try your best to have more food. I request to write a letter to the court.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
即倍王去。
王使人止之，莫能禁，乃自驾追捕太子。
太子妄恶言，王械系太子宫中。
孝日益亲幸。
王奇孝材能，乃佩之王印，号曰将军，令居外宅，多给金钱，招致宾客。
宾客来者，微知淮南、衡山有逆计，日夜从容劝之。
王乃使孝客江都人救赫、陈喜作輣车镞矢，刻天子玺，将相军吏印。
王日夜求壮士如周丘等，数称引吴楚反时计画，以约束。
衡山王非敢效淮南王求即天子位，畏淮南起并其国，以为淮南已西，发兵定江淮之间而有之，望如是。
元朔五年秋，衡山王当朝，过淮南，淮南王乃昆弟语，除前卻，约束反具。
衡山王即上书谢病，上赐书不朝。
translation: 
After that, he turned his back to King Hengshan and left.
The King of Hengshan sent people to stop him, but it failed, so he drove himself to hunt down the prince.
The prince talked nonsense, and the King of Hengshan imprisoned him in the palace with shackles.
Liu Xiao became increasingly close and favored by the King of Hengshan.
The King of Hengshan was amazed at Liu Xiao's talents, so he gave him the royal seal, called him a general, let him live in a mansion outside the palace, and gave him a lot of money to attract guests.
The guests who came to seek refuge secretly knew that both the King of Huainan and the King of Hengshan had plans to betray the imperial court, so they welcomed and encouraged the King of Hengshan day and night.
So the King of Hengshan ordered Liu Xiao's guests Jiangdu people to rescue He and Chen happy to make chariots and arrows, and to engrave the emperor's seal and the official seals of the generals and military officials.
The King of Hengshan visited day and night for heroes like Zhou Qiu. He repeatedly praised and gave examples of Wu Chu's strategies during the rebellion, and used them to standardize his own rebellion plans.
The King of Hengshan did not dare to imitate the King of Huainan and hope to usurp the throne of emperor. He was afraid that the King of Huainan would rise up and annex his country. He thought that after the King of Huainan moved westward, he could take advantage of the situation and send troops to pacify and occupy the territory between the Yangtze River and the Huai River. He hoped that he would be able to do so.
In the autumn of the fifth year of Yuan Shuo, King Hengshan was about to go to Beijing to see the emperor. When passing through the Huainan Kingdom, the King of Huainan actually said some words of brotherhood, which eliminated the previous resentment and agreed to jointly create tools for rebellion.
The King of Hengshan wrote a letter saying that he was ill, and the emperor gave him a letter allowing him not to enter the court.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
元朔六年中，衡山王使人上书请废太子爽，立孝为太子。
爽闻，即使所善白嬴之长安上书，言孝作輣车镞矢，与王御者奸，欲以败孝。
白嬴至长安，未及上书，吏捕嬴，以淮南事系。
王闻爽使白嬴上书，恐言国阴事，即上书反告太子爽所为不道弃市罪事。事下沛郡治。
元年冬，有司公卿下沛郡求捕所与淮南谋反者未得，得陈喜於衡山王子孝家。
吏劾孝首匿喜。
孝以为陈喜雅数与王计谋反，恐其发之，闻律先自告除其罪，又疑太子使白嬴上书发其事，即先自告，告所与谋反者救赫、陈喜等。
廷尉治验，公卿请逮捕衡山王治之。天子曰： 勿捕。
遣中尉安、大行息即问王，王具以情实对。
吏皆围王宫而守之。
中尉大行还，以闻，公卿请遣宗正、大行与沛郡杂治王。
translation: 
In the sixth year of Yuanshuo, King Hengshan sent people to write to the emperor requesting that the crown prince Liu Shuang be deposed and Liu Xiao be established as the crown prince.
After Liu Shuang heard the news, he sent Bai Ying, who was close to him, to Chang'an to write a letter accusing Liu Xiao of secretly making chariot arrows and committing adultery with the Huainan King's maid, intending to thwart Liu Xiao.
When Bai Ying came to Chang'an, before he could submit a letter, the officials arrested him and imprisoned him because he was involved in the rebellion of the King of Huainan.
When the King of Hengshan heard that Liu Shuang sent Bai Ying to write a letter, he was afraid that he would reveal the secrets of the country, so he wrote a letter accusing the prince Liu Shuang of committing treason and committing treason and should be punished with death. The court handed the matter over to Pei County for trial.
In the winter of the first year of Yuanshou, the minister responsible for handling the case went to Pei County to search for the criminals who had conspired with the King of Huainan. He was not arrested, but Chen happy was captured at the home of Liu Xiao, the son of the King of Hengshan.
Officials accused Liu Xiao of taking the lead in hiding Chen happy.
Liu Xiao thought that Chen Xiping had repeatedly plotted rebellion with the King of Hengshan, and was very afraid that he would confess the matter. He heard that the law stipulated that those who surrendered in advance would be exempted from guilt, and he suspected that the prince had instructed Bai Ying to report the rebellion, so he surrendered first and accused Jiu He, Chen happy and others of participating in the rebellion.
The interrogation by Tingwei confirmed that it was true, and the minister requested the arrest and interrogation of King Hengshan. The emperor said: Do not arrest.
He sent Lieutenant Sima An and General Li Xi to Hengshan Kingdom to interrogate King Hengshan on the spot, and King Hengshan answered truthfully one by one.
The officials surrounded the palace and guarded it closely.
The lieutenant and Daxing returned to the court and reported the situation. The minister requested that Zongzheng, Daxing and Peijun be sent to jointly try the King of Hengshan.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
王闻，即自刭杀。
孝先自告反，除其罪；坐与王御婢奸，弃市。
王后徐来亦坐蛊杀前王后乘舒，及太子爽坐王告不孝，皆弃市。
诸与衡山王谋反者皆族。
国除为衡山郡。
太史公曰：诗之所谓 戎狄是膺，荆舒是惩 ，信哉是言也。
淮南、衡山亲为骨肉，疆土千里，列为诸侯，不务遵蕃臣职以承辅天子，而专挟邪僻之计，谋为畔逆，仍父子再亡国，各不终其身，为天下笑。
此非独王过也，亦其俗薄，臣下渐靡使然也。
夫荆楚僄勇轻悍，好作乱，乃自古记之矣。
translation: 
When the King of Hengshan heard the news, he cut his neck and committed suicide.
Liu Xiao was acquitted because he voluntarily surrendered and rebelled; but he was still sentenced to death for committing adultery with the maid of the Prince of Hengshan.
Queen Xu Lai was also guilty of murdering the former Queen Chengshu by falsely accusing her of poison, and Prince Liu Shuang was accused of unfilial piety by the King of Hengshan, so they were all executed and abandoned in the market.
All the criminals who participated in the rebellion of King Hengshan were killed.
Hengshan State was abolished and became Hengshan County.
Tai Shigong said: "The Book of Songs" says: "Fight the Rong and Di, punish the Chu people. This is true!"
Although the King of Huainan and the King of Hengshan were close relatives, owned thousands of miles of territory, and were granted the title of vassal, they did not devote themselves to abide by the duties of vassals to assist the emperor. Instead, they blindly harbored evil plans and plotted rebellion. As a result, father and son were subjugated for the second time in succession. No one was able to enjoy the full life of his life, and was ridiculed by the world.
This is not only their fault, but also the result of the weak local customs and the bad influence of subordinate ministers.
The people of Chu are agile, brave, fierce, and fond of causing chaos. This has been recorded in books since ancient times.


