Chunk 0: 
original: 
薛宣字赣君，东海郯人也。
少为廷尉书佐、都船狱吏。
后以大司农斗食属察廉，补不其丞。
琅邪太守赵贡行县，见宣，甚说其能。
从宣历行属县，还至府，令妻子与相见，戒曰： 赣君至丞相，我两子亦中丞相史。
察宣廉，迁乐浪都尉丞。
幽州刺史举茂材，为宛句令。
大将军王凤闻其能，荐宣为长安令，治果有名，以明习文法诏补御史中丞。
是时，成帝初即位，宣为中丞，执法殿中，外总部刺史，上疏曰： 陛下至德仁厚，哀闵元元，躬有日仄之劳，而亡佚豫之乐，允执圣道，刑罚惟中，然而嘉气尚凝，阴阳不和，是臣下未称，而圣化独有不洽者也。
臣窃伏思其一端，殆吏多苛政，政教烦碎，大率咎在部刺史，或不循守条职，举错各以其意，多与郡县事，至开私门，听谗佞，以求吏民过失，谴呵及细微，责义不量力。
郡县相迫促，亦内相刻，流至众庶。
是故乡党阙于嘉宾之欢，九族忘其亲亲之恩，饮食周急之厚弥衰，送往劳来之礼不行。
夫人道不通，则阴阳否隔，和气不兴，未必不由此也。
《诗》云： 民之失德，乾餱以愆。
鄙语曰： 苛政不亲，烦苦伤恩。 方刺史奏事时，宜明申敕，使昭然知本朝之要务。
臣愚不知治道，唯明主察焉。
上嘉纳之。
宣数言政事便宜，举奏部刺史郡国二千石，所贬退称进，白黑分明，繇是知名。
出为临淮太守，政教大行。
translation: 
Xue Xuan, courtesy name Ganjun, was a native of Tan County, Shuhai.
When he was young, he served as the secretary of Tingwei and the history of the capital ship prison.
Later, when Da Si Nong Doushi was an official, he was promoted as an honest official and was replaced by the county magistrate.
Zhao Gong, the prefect of Langye, inspected the county and saw Xue Xuan and admired his talents very much.
Let Xue Xuan follow him to inspect the counties under his jurisdiction one by one. Return to the government office, let his wife and son meet Xue Xuan, and inform Xue Xuan: When the king of Gan becomes the prime minister, my two sons are still suitable to be prime ministers.
Xue Xuan was found to be clean and honest, and he was promoted to Lelang Duweicheng.
The governor of Youzhou recommended Xue Xuan as Maocai and became Wanjuling.
General Wang Feng heard about Xue Xuan's talents and recommended him to be the Chang'an Order. Xue Xuan's governance was indeed very famous. Because he was familiar with the legal provisions, he was appointed as the replacement censor Zhongcheng.
At that time, Emperor Cheng had just ascended the throne, and Xue Xuan was appointed as the Censor Zhongcheng. He was responsible for executing the decrees in the court and controlling the governor outside the court. The memorial said: Your Majesty has the highest moral standards, is kind and kind, and loves the people. His body is toiled before the sun sets to the west, but he does not have time to eat, but he does not have comfortable and comfortable enjoyment. He honestly adheres to the saint's way, and his punishments are very fair. However, a good atmosphere has not yet been formed, and yin and yang are not reconciled. This is because the ministers are incompetent, and the teachings of the sages are not harmonious.
I have thought about it privately. One of the reasons may be that most of the officials implemented strict laws and regulations, and the punishments, rewards and education were complicated and trivial. Most of the blame lies with the provincial governors.
County and county urged each other and were very harsh with each other internally. This trend also spread to the people.
Therefore, there is a lack of joy in receiving distinguished guests in the countryside, and the people of the nine tribes have forgotten the friendship between their relatives. The loyalty and virtue of offering food and drink to help people in crisis have further declined, and the etiquette of seeing off those who have left and comforting those who have returned is no longer practiced.
If the moral norms of society are not prevailing, then the yin and yang will be blocked, and the harmonious atmosphere will not flourish. This may not be due to this reason.
"Poetry" says: When people lose friendship, they often lose their harmony in trivial matters such as food and drink.
As the saying goes: People will not be loyal to harsh politics, and the hardships of corvee work will undermine the emperor's favor. When the governor reports political affairs, he should clearly warn them so that they clearly know the important affairs of the dynasty.
I am ignorant and do not understand the principles of governing the country. I hope that the wise Lord will examine my opinions.
The emperor approved and adopted his opinion.
Xue Xuan repeatedly talked about things that were beneficial to governance. He recommended the governor of the county with a salary of two thousand dan in his memorials. He was very clear about what he despised and rejected and what he praised and recommended, so he was very famous at that time.
As the governor of Linhuai, punishments, rewards and education were widely implemented.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
会陈留郡有大贼废乱，上徙宣为陈留太守，盗贼禁止，吏民敬其威信。
入守左冯翊，满岁称职为真。
始高陵令杨湛、栎阳令谢游皆贪猾不逊，持郡短长，前二千石数案不能竟。
及宣视事，诣府谒，宣设酒饭与相对，接待甚备。
已而阴求其罪臧，具得所受取。
宣察湛有改节敬宣之效，乃手自牒书，条其奸臧，封与湛曰： 吏民条言君如牒，或议以为疑于主守盗。
冯翊敬重令，又念十金法重，不忍相暴章。
故密以手书相晓，欲君自图进退，可复伸眉于后。
即无其事，复封还记，得为君分明之。
湛自知罪臧皆应记，而宣辞语温润，无伤害意。
湛即时解印绶付吏，为记谢宣，终无怨言。
而栎阳令游自以大儒有名，轻宣。
宣独移书显，责之曰： 告栎阳令：吏民言令治行烦苛，適罚作使千人以上；贼取钱财数十万，给为非法；卖买听任富吏，贾数不可知。
证验以明白，欲遣吏考案，恐负举者，耻辱儒士，故使掾平镌令。
孔子曰： 陈力就列，不能者止。
令详思之，方调守。
游得檄，亦解印绶去。
又频阳县北当上郡、西河，为数郡凑，多盗贼。
其令平陵薛恭本县孝者，功次稍迁，未尝治民，职不办。
而栗邑县小，辟在山中，民谨朴易治。
令巨鹿尹赏久郡用事吏，为楼烦长，举茂材，迁在栗。
宣即以令奏赏与恭换县。
translation: 
It happened that there were robbers in Chenliu County who were disrupting the order. The emperor appointed Xue Xuan as the prefect of Chenliu. The robbers were put to rest, and the officials and the people respected his prestige and credibility.
He entered the imperial court as Zuo Fengyi on trial. One year later, he was officially appointed because he was qualified.
At the beginning, Yang Zhan, the leader of Gaoling, and Xie You, the leader of Liangyang, were both greedy, cunning, and disrespectful. They knew the shortcomings of the county officials. Officials who had previously been lucky enough to earn two thousand shi could not be investigated after repeated inspections.
When Xue Xuan took office, they came to the government office to see him. Xue Xuan arranged wine and dinner for them to sit across from each other, and the hospitality was very thoughtful.
Then they secretly visited the bribes obtained by their crimes, and fully obtained the information about their acceptance and request for bribes.
Xue Xuan noticed that Yang Zhan had corrected his mistakes and showed respect for himself, so he wrote on the slip with his own hands, listing the bribes he had illegally obtained item by item. After sealing it, he sent it to Yang Zhan and said: The people will expose you item by item as written on the slip. Some people think that you are suspected of being a thief.
Feng Yi respects you respectfully, and considering that the ten gold method is very serious, he cannot bear to expose you.
Therefore, I secretly tell you in a handwritten letter that I want you to consider your own advancement and retreat, so that you can feel proud in the future.
If there are none of these things, please seal and return this letter so that I can prove your innocence.
Yang Zhan himself knew that the bribe obtained from the crime was consistent with what was recorded in the letter, while Xue Declaration was gentle and had no intention of harming himself.
Yang Zhan immediately took off the seal and handed it over to his subordinates. He wrote a letter to thank Xue Xuan without any words of resentment or dissatisfaction.
However, Liang Yang ordered Xie You to consider himself a great Confucian scholar and famous, and despised Xue Xuan.
Xue Xuan sent a separate document to publicly rebuke him, saying: Announcement to Shuoyang Order: Officials and people have revealed that Liang Yang's order is cumbersome and harsh in governing government affairs, banishing and punishing more than a thousand people to work; collecting hundreds of thousands of money to provide for his own illegal squandering; trading is left to wealthy officials, and the price and quantity cannot be known.
The test was conclusive, so I wanted to send officials to examine and interrogate, but I was worried that I would disappoint the person who recommended me and make the Confucian scholars feel ashamed, so I sent officials to supervise Liang Yangling.
Confucius said: Examine your own talents before taking up official positions. If you are not qualified, give up.
Liang Yang ordered you to consider this matter in detail. I am about to transfer in to take over your duties.
After Xie You received the message, he also lifted the seal and left.
In addition, the north of Pinyang County faces Shangjun and Xihe. It is the meeting point of several counties, and there are many thieves.
Its county magistrate, Xue Gong from Pingling, was a filial son of the county. He was gradually promoted according to merit. He had never governed the people and did not handle the affairs within his duties well.
Suyi County is small and remote, located in the mountains. The people are cautious, simple and easy to manage.
The county magistrate Yin Shang from Julu was an official who had been in charge of the county for a long time. He served as the chief of the building. He was promoted to Maocai, promoted and transferred to Suyi.
Xue Xuan asked Yin Shang and Xue Gong to change their posts as county magistrates in accordance with the law.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
二人视事数月，而两县皆治。
宣因移书劳勉之曰： 昔孟公绰优于赵魏而不宜滕薛，故或以德显，或以功举， 君子之道，焉可怃也！
属县各有贤君，冯翊垂拱蒙成。
愿勉所职，卒功业。
宣得郡中吏民罪名，辄召告其县长吏，使自行罚。
晓曰： 府所以不自发举者，不欲代县治，夺贤令长名也。
长吏莫不喜惧，免冠谢宣归恩受戒者。
宣为吏赏罚明，用法平而必行，所居皆有条教可纪，多仁恕爱利。
池阳令举廉吏狱掾王立，府未及召，闻立受囚家钱。
宣责让县，县案验狱掾，乃其妻独受系者钱万六千，受之再宿，狱掾实不知。
掾惭恐自杀。
宣闻之，移书池阳曰： 县所举廉吏狱掾王立，家私受赇，而立不知，杀身以自明，立诚廉士，甚可闵惜！
其以府决曹掾书立之柩，以显其魂。
府掾史素与立相知者，皆予送葬。
及日至休吏，贼曹掾张扶独不肯休，坐曹治事。
宣出教曰： 盖礼贯和，人道尚通。
日至，吏以令休，所繇来久。
曹虽有公职事，家亦望私恩意。
掾宜从众，归对妻子，设酒肴，请邻里，一笑相乐，斯亦可矣！
扶惭愧。
官属善之。
宣为人好威仪，进止雍容，甚可观也。
性密静有思，思省吏职，求其便安。
下至财用笔研，皆为设方略，利用而省费。
吏民称之，郡中清静。
迁为少府，共张职办。
translation: 
After two men had been in office for several months, both counties were well governed.
Xue Xuan sent documents to comfort and encourage them, saying: In the past, Meng Gongchuo was an excellent retainer in Wei, but he was not suitable to be a high official in Teng and Xue. Therefore, some people rely on virtue to become prominent, and some people are promoted based on merit. How can the paths of gentleman's careers be the same?
There are wise officials in each county under his control, and Feng Yi hangs down his clothes and enjoys the results.
I hope you will do your best to perform your duties and achieve meritorious careers.
When Xue Xuan learned about the crimes committed by the officials and people in the county, he summoned the county chief and informed him that he would carry out the punishment himself.
Tell him: The reason why the government does not report the case on its own is because it does not want to replace the county to govern and take away the reputation of the virtuous commander.
All the officials were happy and scared. They took off their hats and thanked Xue Xuan for his kindness and accepted the admonishment.
Xue Xuan was an official with clear rewards and punishments, applied the law fairly and enforced it resolutely. Every official position he held had laws and regulations worth recording. Most of them were kind and forgiving, caring for others, and seeking benefits for the people.
The Chiyang Order recommended Wang Li, an upright official and jailer, but before the government could summon him, they heard that Wang Li had collected money from the prisoners' families.
Xue Xuan cross-examined and blamed the county magistrate, and the county magistrate interrogated the jailer Wang Li. It turned out that his wife had secretly collected 16,000 yuan from the prisoner for two nights. The jailer Wang Li did not actually know.
Wang Li committed suicide out of shame and fear.
Xue Xuan heard about this and sent a document to Chiyang County saying: Wang Li, an honest official recommended by Chiyang County, was jailed by his family. Wang Li did not know it, but committed suicide to prove his innocence.
Wang Li is indeed an honest scholar, which makes people feel very pitiful and pitiful. Now, the government decision Cao Tie is written on his coffin to show off his heroic spirit.
Those who were close friends with Wang Li in the government affairs department would go to his funeral.
At the winter solstice, the officials were on vacation. Cao Cao, the thief, and Zhang Fuwei were unwilling to take the vacation and went to the government office to handle official business.
Xue Xuan came out to enlighten him and said: Etiquette advocates harmony, and social moral norms focus on popularity.
On the day of the winter solstice, officials take a vacation in accordance with the law. It has been a long time since it was first implemented.
Although the government office has public responsibilities and affairs, the family also longs for private love and affection.
Cao Cao should obey everyone and go home to accompany his wife and children, arrange food and drinks, entertain the neighbors, and laugh and have fun together. This is also very appropriate!
Zhang Fu was ashamed.
All the officials thought Xue Xuan's words were right.
Xue Xuan pays attention to the dignified and upright appearance, and is elegant and generous in his advances and retreats. It is worth watching.
He has a deep and quiet temperament and is resourceful. He thinks about the duties of the officials and seeks ways to facilitate and ease them.
Down to the money pen and inkstone, everything is designed to make it easy to use and save money.
Officials and people praised him, and the county was quiet and peaceful.
Xue Xuan was promoted to the post of Shaofu and was responsible for providing and setting up the accounts needed by the emperor. He handled his duties very well.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
月余，御史大夫于永卒，谷永上疏曰：
帝王之德莫大于知人，知人则百僚任职，天工不旷。故皋陶曰： 知人则哲，能官人。
御史大夫内承本朝之风化，外佐丞相统理天下，任重职大，非庸材所能堪。
今当选于群卿，以充其缺。
得其人则万姓欣喜，百僚说服；不得其人则大职堕斁，王功不兴。
虞帝之明，在兹一举，可不致详！
窃见少府宣，材茂行洁，达于从政，前为御史中丞，执宪毂下，不吐刚茹柔，举错时当；出守临淮、陈留，二郡称治；为左冯翊，崇教养善，威德并行，众职修理，奸轨绝息，辞讼者历年不至丞相府，赦后余盗贼什分三辅之一。
功效卓尔，自左内史初置以来未尝有也。
孔子曰： 如有所誉，其有所试。 宣考绩功课，简在两府，不敢过称以奸欺诬之罪。
臣闻贤材莫大于治人，宣已有效。
其法律任廷尉有余，经术文雅足以谋王体，断国论；身兼数器，有 退食自公 之节。宣无私党游说之助，臣恐陛下忽于《羔羊》之诗，舍公实之臣，任华虚之誉，是用越职，陈宣行能，唯陛下留神考察。
上然之，遂以宣为御史大夫。
数月，代张禹为丞相，封高阳侯，食邑千户。
宣除赵贡两子为史。
贡者，赵广汉之兄子也，为吏亦有能名。
宣为相，府辞讼例不满万钱不为移书，后皆遵用薛侯故事。
然官属讥其烦碎无大体，不称贤也。
时天子好儒雅，宣经术又浅，上亦轻焉。
translation: 
More than a month later, Yu Yong, the imperial censor, passed away. Gu Yong wrote a memorial saying:
The virtue of an emperor is not more important than recognizing the good and evil of people. If one can identify the good and evil of people, then all officials will be qualified for their respective positions, and the official positions in the court will not be vacant. Therefore, Gao Tao said: Being able to recognize the good and evil of people is smart and can select talents as officials.
The imperial censor is responsible for the customs and education of the dynasty inside, and assists the prime minister in comprehensively governing the world outside. He has a heavy responsibility and a high position, which is not something that mediocre people can do.
Talents should now be selected from among the hundred palaces to fill this vacancy.
If you choose the right person, then everyone in the world will be happy and all officials will be convinced; if you don't choose the right person, then this important duty will be ruined and the emperor's achievements will not prosper.
Your Majesty, you are as wise as Emperor Yu, reflected in this move. How could you not be extremely cautious?
I personally saw that Xue Xuan, the young master, was very talented, pure in character, and well versed in handling government affairs. He previously served as Yushi Zhongcheng, executing laws under the emperor's chariot, being fair and upright, not following the trend of the crowd, and behaving appropriately and in a timely manner; he served as the prefect of Linhuai and Chenliu, and both counties were praised for their good governance; he was appointed Zuo Fengyi, recommended Advocating education, cultivating good deeds, performing majesty and kindness together, all kinds of duties are beautiful and orderly, people who break the law and make troubles have disappeared, people who have filed lawsuits have not been in the prime minister's house for many years, and after the amnesty, only one-tenth of the thieves in the third auxiliary are left.
The achievements and results are outstanding, which has never happened since Zuo Neishi started setting up.
Confucius said: If you praise a person, you must test that person. The assessment of Xue Xuan's political performance is clearly recorded in the prime minister and the censor. I dare not praise him too much to commit the crime of deception.
I heard that the talent of a wise man is not more important than governing the people. Xue Xuan has already achieved results.
His talents in laws and regulations are enough to serve as a court official, and his talents in Confucianism, etiquette and music are enough to plan the foundation of kingship and make decisions on state affairs. He has talents in several aspects at the same time, and he has the ability to eat less and obey justice. Xue Xuan's integrity, Xue Xuan did not have the help of persuasion from his clique, I was worried that your majesty ignored the poetry of "The Lamb", abandoned fair and honest ministers, and appointed people with a gorgeous and vain reputation. Therefore, I went beyond my duties and stated Xue Xuan's character and talents, hoping that your majesty would pay attention to investigate.
The emperor thought his words were right and appointed Xue Xuan as the imperial censor.
A few months later, Xue Xuan replaced Zhang Yu as prime minister and was granted the title of Marquis of Gaoyang, with a settlement of 1,000 households.
Xue Xuan appointed Zhao Gong's two sons as prime ministers.
Tangong was the son of Zhao Guanghan's elder brother, and he had a reputation as a capable official.
Xue Xuan was appointed prime minister, and the custom of accepting lawsuits was that documents less than ten thousand yuan would not be handed over. Later generations followed the precedent of Xue Hou.
However, the subordinates accused him of being complicated and trivial and without important points, and could not be called a wise man.
At that time, the emperor liked erudite Confucian scholars, but Xue Xuan's classics knowledge was very shallow, and the emperor also despised him.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
久之，广汉郡盗贼群起，丞相、御史遣掾史逐捕不能克。
上乃拜河东都尉赵护为广汉太守，以军法从事。
数月，斩其渠帅郑躬，降者数千人，乃平。
会邛成太后崩，丧事仓卒，吏赋敛以趋办。
其后上闻之，以过丞相、御史，遂册免宣曰： 君为丞相，出入六年，忠孝之行，率先百僚，朕无闻焉。
朕既不明，变异数见，岁比不登，仓廪空虚，百姓饥馑，流离道路，疾疫死者以万数，人至相食，盗贼并兴，群职旷废，是朕之不德而股肱不良也。
乃者广汉群盗横恣，残贼吏民，朕恻然伤之，数以问君，君对辄不如其实。
西州隔绝，几不为郡。
三辅赋敛无度，酷吏并缘为奸，侵扰百姓，诏君案验，复无欲得事实之意。
九卿以下，咸承风指，同时陷于谩欺之辜，咎繇君焉！
有司法君领职解嫚，开谩欺之路，伤薄风化，无以帅示四方。
不忍致君于理，其上丞相、高阳侯印绶，罢归。
初，宣为丞相，而翟方进为司直。
宣知方进名儒，有宰相器，深结厚焉。
后方进竟代为丞相，思宣旧恩，宣免后二岁，荐宣明习文法，练国制度，前所坐过薄，可复进用。
上征宣复爵高阳侯，加宠特进，位次师安昌侯，给事中，视尚书事。
宣复尊重。
任政数年，后坐善定陵侯淳于长罢就第。
初，宣有两弟，明、修：明至南阳太守；修历郡守、京兆尹、少府，善交接，得州里之称。
后母常从修居官。
translation: 
After a long time, hordes of thieves arose in Guanghan County, and the prime minister and censor dispatched officers to pursue and hunt them down, but they could not be quelled.
The emperor appointed Captain Chang Hu of Hedong as the prefect of Guanghan to handle affairs according to the laws governing the army.
A few months later, they beheaded their commander Zheng Gong and surrendered thousands of people before they were pacified.
When the Empress Dowager Qiongcheng died, the funeral was in a hurry, and the officials collected taxes to handle it quickly.
Later, the emperor heard about this incident and used it to blame the prime minister and the censor. He issued an edict to dismiss Xue Xuan and said: As prime minister, you have been in office for six years, but I have never heard of your loyal and filial behavior and the actions of setting an example for all officials.
Since I am not a saint, disasters and disasters have occurred many times. There have been no harvests for years. The warehouses have been empty. The people have suffered from famine. They have been scattered on the roads. The number of people who died due to diseases and plagues has been counted in the tens of thousands, even to the point of cannibalism. Robbers and thieves have sprung up. Many positions have been vacant. This is because I have no virtue and the ministers who assist me are incompetent.
In the past, many thieves in Guanghan County were rampant and brutal, killing officials and people. I felt sad and sad about this incident. I asked you many times, but your answers were always inconsistent with the facts.
Xizhou is so isolated that it is barely a county.
There is no limit to the taxes collected by the third assistant. The cruel officials collude with each other to do bad things and invade and harass the people. You are ordered to investigate the case, but you have no intention of getting the true situation of the matter.
The nine ministers and below all acted according to your will and were all guilty of deception. The fault was your fault.
A judicial officer impeached you in accordance with the law for your laxity and negligence in holding office, which opened the way to deception, damaged and weakened moral education, and failed to set an example for the world.
I can't bear to send you to the judge. You should hand in the seal of Prime Minister Gao Yanghou and be dismissed from your post and go home.
At the beginning, Xue Xuan was appointed prime minister, and Zhai Fangjin was appointed minister.
Xue Xuan knew that Zuo Jin was a famous Confucian scholar and had the talents of a prime minister, so he made a close friendship with him.
Later, Fang Jin actually replaced him as prime minister. In gratitude for Lian Xuan's past kindness, two years after Yan Xuan was dismissed, Fang Jin recommended that Xue Xuan clearly understood the legal provisions and was familiar with the country's various systems. The mistakes he had made previously were minor and he could be promoted again.
The emperor conscripted Changen, and granted him the title of Zhizui, plus the favored title of Tejin. His status was second to that of the Marquis of Anchang, the national advisor, and he was assigned to Shizhong and also in charge of the affairs of the minister.
Lan Xuan was respected again.
He participated in political affairs for several years. Later, he was convicted of being friendly with Dingling Marquis Chunyu Chang and was dismissed from his post and returned home.
At first, Xue Xuan had two younger brothers, Xue Ming and Xue Xiu. Xue Mingguan went to Nanyang Prefecture. Xue Xiu served successively as county magistrate, Jing Zhaoyin, and Shaofu. He was good at communicating with people and was praised by the villagers.
The stepmother followed Xue Xiu in official posts for a long time.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
宣为丞相时，修为临菑令，宣迎后母，修不遣。
后母病死，修去官持服。
宣谓修三年服少能行之者，兄弟相驳不可，修遂竟服，繇是兄弟不和。
久之，哀帝初即位，博士申咸给事中，亦东海人也，毁宣不供养行丧服，薄于骨肉，前以不忠孝免，不宜复列封侯在朝省。
宣子况为右曹侍郎，数闻其语，赇客杨明，欲令创咸面目，使不居位。
会司隶缺，况恐咸为之，遂令明遮斫咸宫门外，断鼻唇，身八创。
事不有司，御史中丞众等奏： 况朝臣，父故宰相，再封列侯，不相敕丞化，而骨肉相疑，疑咸受修言以谤毁宣。
咸所言皆宣行迹，众人所共见，公家所宜闻。
况知咸给事中，恐为司隶举奏宣，而公令明等迫切宫阙，要遮创戮近臣于大道人众中，欲以隔塞聪明，杜绝论议之端。
桀黠无所畏忌，万众讠雚哗，流闻四方，不与凡民忿怒争斗者同。
臣闻敬近臣，为近主也。
礼，下公门，式路马，君畜产且犹敬之。
《春秋》之义，意恶功遂，不免于诛，上浸之源不可长也，况首为恶，明手伤，功意俱恶，皆大不敬。
明当以重论，及况皆弃市。
廷尉直以为： 律曰 斗以刃伤人，完为城旦，其贼加罪一等，与谋者同罪。
诏书无以诋欺成罪。
传曰： 遇人不以义而见慭者，与痏人之罪钧，恶不直也。
咸厚善修，而数称宣恶，流闻不谊，不可谓直。
况以故伤咸，计谋已定，后闻置司隶，因前谋而趣明，非以恐咸为司隶故造谋也。
本争私变，虽于掖门外伤咸道中，与凡民争斗无异。
杀人者死，伤人者刑，古今之通道，三代所不易也。
孔子曰： 必也正名。
名不正，则至于刑罚不中；刑罚不中，而民无所错手足。
今以况为首恶，明手伤为大不敬，公私无差。
《春秋》之义，原心定罪。
原况以父见谤发忿怒，无它大恶。
加诋欺，辑小过成大辟，陷死刑，违明诏，恐非法意，不可施行。
圣王不以怒增刑。
明当以贼伤人不直，况与谋者皆爵减完为城旦。
上以问公卿议臣。
translation: 
When Xue Xuan was the prime minister, Xue Xiu was appointed as the Order of Chuojian. Sa Xuan welcomed his stepmother, but Xue Xiu refused to send her away.
When his stepmother fell ill and died, Xue Xiu resigned from his official position to mourn.
Xue Xuan told Xue Xiu that three years of mourning was rarely possible. The brothers refuted each other and had disagreements. Xue Xiu then completed the mourning period, so the brothers were not harmonious.
A long time later, when Emperor Ai had just ascended the throne, Dr. Shen Xianren came to Shizhong, who was also from Donghai. He slandered Xue Xuan by saying that Xue Xuan did not provide for his mother, that he did not wear mourning clothes after his mother died, and that he had little affection for his flesh and blood. He had previously been dismissed from office due to disloyalty and unfilial piety, and he should not be made a marquis and stay in the imperial office again.
Zhengxuan's son Bichi was appointed as the minister of Youcao. Hearing his words many times, he bribed Yang Ming, a retainer, in order to disfigure Shenxian's face and prevent him from holding an official position.
There happened to be a vacancy in the post of secretary, and Xue Kuang was worried that Shen Sheng would become the secretary, so he ordered Yang Ming to block the road outside the palace gate and attack Shen Qi, cutting off his nose and lips, and causing eight wounds on his body.
The matter was handed over to Yousi, and Yushi Zhongchengzhong and others reported: Xue Kuang is a minister in the court, and his father was the original prime minister. He was named a prince twice. He did not warn each other and uphold the teachings. Instead, his flesh and blood were suspicious of each other. He suspected that Shen Xian listened to Xue Xiu's words and slandered Xue Xuan.
What Shen Xian said was what Xue Xuan had done, what everyone had seen, and what the court should have heard.
Xue Kuang knew that Shen Xian was involved in the affair, and was worried that he would file a report against Xue Xuan after becoming a minister, so he openly ordered Zhelong and others to approach the palace, block the road and injure the ministers, hoping to block the hearing and vision of the court and block the way to cut off discussion.
Xue Kuang was ferocious and cunning and had nothing to fear him. The people were noisy and spread rumors, which was different from ordinary people fighting and fighting out of resentment and anger.
We have heard that respecting one’s neighbors means being close to the Lord.
According to etiquette, you have to get off the vehicle after passing the monarch's gate. When you see the horses of the monarch's carriage, you should touch the crossbar in front of the carriage. The monarch's livestock must also respect them.
According to the principle of "Spring and Autumn", if the intention is bad but succeeds, you cannot escape punishment, and the beginning of such behavior that offends the emperor cannot be encouraged. Xue Kuang is the chief villain. He hurt others with his own hands. The consequences and intentions are both bad and disrespectful.
Yang Ming should be severely convicted, and both Yang Ming and Xue Kuang should be executed in a busy city and their bodies should be displayed to the public.
Ting Weizhi believed: Legally speaking, if someone cuts someone with a knife in a fight, he will be sentenced to a full sentence or a penalty of Cheng Dan. The person who hurts someone will be charged with an additional level, and he will be charged with the same crime as the person who planned it.
The emperor's proclamation ordered that no charges should be brought against him for defamation and deception.
Ancient books say: A person who does not treat others morally and is beaten is as guilty as the person who beats him because he hates him for being dishonest.
Shen Xian was very friendly with Xue Xiu, but he repeatedly publicized Xue Xuan's sins and spread them widely, which was very inappropriate and could not be said to be honest.
Xue Kuang hurt Shen Xian because of his father, and the plan had already been decided. Later, when he heard about the appointment of candidates for Sili, he urged Yang Ming according to the previous plan. He did not set up the plan because he was worried about Shen Xian being appointed Sili.
It was originally a fight that turned out to be private. Although Shen Xian was stabbed and injured on the road outside Yemen, it was no different from the fights between ordinary people.
Those who kill are put to death and those who injure others are sentenced. This is a common principle from ancient times to the present, and it cannot be changed in three generations.
Confucius said: We must distinguish our correct names.
If the status is not correct, the punishment will be inappropriate. If the punishment is inappropriate, the people will not know what to do.
Now that Xue Kuang is regarded as the chief villain, it is disrespectful for Yang Ming to hurt people with his own hands, which makes no distinction between public and private affairs.
The main meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is to determine the crime by inferring the original intention.
Investigating the root cause, Xue Kuang vented his anger because his father was slandered, and had no other major sins.
But to add slanderous and deceptive words, to aggregate small faults to promote the crime of great punishment, to subject people to the death penalty, and to violate the edicts of the sages, I am afraid that this is not the original intention of the law and cannot be implemented.
A wise ruler does not increase punishment because of his anger.
Yang Ming should be sentenced to the crime of injuring others. Xue Kuang and the conspirators should have their titles lowered and be sentenced to death and Cheng Dan.
The emperor asked the ministers about this matter.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
丞相孔光、大司空师丹以中丞议是，自将军以下至博士、议郎皆是廷尉。
况竟减罪一等，徙敦煌。
宣坐免为庶人，归故郡，卒于家。
宣子惠亦至二千石。
始惠为彭城令，宣从临淮迁至陈留，过其县，桥梁、邮亭不修。
宣心知惠不能，留彭城数日，案行舍中，处置什器，观视园菜，终不问惠以吏事。
惠自知治县不称宣意，遣门下掾送宣至陈留，令掾进见，自从其所问宣不教戒惠吏职之意。
宣笑曰： 吏道以法令为师，可问而知。
及能与不能，自有资材，何可学也？
众人传称，以宣言为然。
初，宣复封为侯时，妻死，而敬武长公主寡居，上令宣尚焉。
及宣免归故郡，公主留京师。
后宣卒，主上书愿还宣葬延陵，奏可。
况私从敦煌归长安，会赦，因留与主私乱。
哀帝外家丁、傅贵，主附事之，而疏王氏。
元始中，莽自尊为安汉公，主又出言非莽。
而况与吕宽相善，及宽事觉时，莽并治况，发扬其罪，使使者以太皇太后诏赐主药。
主怒曰： 刘氏孤弱，王氏擅朝，排挤宗室，且嫂何与取妹披抉其闺门而杀之？
使者迫守主，遂饮药死。
况枭首于市。
白太后云主暴病薨。
太后欲临其丧，莽固争，乃止。
朱博字子元，杜陵人也。
家贫，少时给事县为亭长，好客少年，捕搏敢行。
稍迁为功曹，伉侠好交，随从士大夫，不避风雨。
translation: 
Prime Minister Kong Guang and Grand Sikong Shidan believed that Zhong Cheng's opinion was correct, and everyone from the general to Dr. Yi Lang believed that Ting Wei was correct.
Xue Kuang was eventually transferred to Dunhuang with a first-class charge reduced.
Xue Xuan was convicted, dismissed as a civilian, returned to his original county, and died at home.
Xue Xuan's son Xue Hui also became an official with two thousand stones.
When Xue Hui was appointed as the magistrate of Pengcheng, Xue Xuan was transferred from Linhuai to Chenliu. Passing through his county, he saw that the bridge and post box had not been repaired.
Xue Xuan knew in his heart that Xue Hui lacked talent, so he stayed in Pengcheng for a few days, inspecting the official residence, handling and placing miscellaneous utensils, and inspecting the vegetables in the garden. He never questioned Xue Hui about his duties as an official.
Xue Hui himself knew that governing Pengcheng County was not in line with Xue Xuan's wishes, so he sent his subordinates to escort Xue Xuan to Chenliu and asked him to enter the palace to ask for an audience.
Xue Xuan smiled and said: The way to be an official is to use the laws as a teacher. You can ask and learn.
As for being able to do it and not being able to do it, each has its own qualifications and talents, so how can it be learned?
Everyone spread the word and believed that Xue Xuan's words were right.
When Xue Xuan was granted the title of Marquis of Gaoyang for the second time, his wife died and Princess Jingwu was left alone. The emperor ordered Xue Xuan to marry the princess.
When Xue Xuan was dismissed and returned to his original county, the princess stayed in the capital.
Later, when Xue Xuan died, the princess presented a memorial, hoping to welcome Xue Xuan back and be buried in Yanling. The memorial was approved.
Xue Kuang secretly returned to Chang'an from Dunhuang. During the amnesty period, he stayed and had an affair with the princess.
Emperor Ai's maternal relatives, the Ding family and the Fu family, were dignitaries. Princess Afu served them but alienated the Wang family.
During the Yuanshi period, Wang Mang respectfully called himself Duke An Mo, and the princess spoke slanderously against Wang Mang.
Xue Kuang and Lu Kuan were friendly with each other. When Lu Kuan's affairs were discovered, Wang Mang punished Xue Kuang together, publicized his crimes, and sent an envoy to give the princess poison in accordance with the Shao Order of the Empress Dowager.
The princess was furious and said: The Liu family is lonely and weak, the Wang family specializes in government affairs and excludes the royal family, and why would the sister-in-law reveal what happened in her sister's boudoir and execute her?
The messenger forced the princess to be guarded, but the princess finally drank poison and died.
Xue Kuang was beheaded in the market.
Wang Mang reported to the Queen Mother that the princess was seriously ill.
The Queen Mother wanted to attend her funeral, but Wang Mang firmly persuaded her, and the Queen Mother stopped.
Zhu Bo, whose courtesy name is Ziyuan, is from Duling.
His family was poor. When he was young, he worked as a pavilion chief in the county. He liked to make friends with young guests, hunt and fight, and was fearless.
Gradually promoted to a meritorious officer, he was upright and righteous, loved to socialize, followed the scholar-bureaucrats, and did not avoid wind and rain.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
是时，前将军望之子萧育，御史大夫万年子陈咸以公卿子著材知名，博皆友之矣。
时，诸陵县属太常，博以太常掾察廉，补安陵丞。
后去官入京兆，历曹史列掾。出为督邮书掾，所部职办，郡中称之。
而陈咸为御史中丞，坐漏泄省中语下狱。
博去吏，间步至廷尉中，候伺咸事。
咸掠治困笃，博诈得为医人狱，得见咸，具知其所坐罪。
博出狱，又变性名，为咸验治数百，卒免咸死罪。
咸得论出，而博以此显名，为郡功曹。
久之，成帝即位，大将军王凤秉政，奏请陈咸为长史。
咸荐萧育、朱博除莫府属，凤甚奇之，举博栎阳令，徙云阳、平陵二县，以高弟入为长安令。
京师治理，迁冀州刺史。
博本武吏，不更文法，及为刺史行部，吏民数百人遮道自言，官寺尽满。从事白请且留此县录见诸自言者，事毕乃发，欲以观试博。
博心知之，告外趣驾。
既白驾办，博出就车见自言者，使从事明敕告吏民： 欲言县丞尉者，刺史不察黄绶，各自诣郡。
欲言二千石墨绶长吏者，使者行部还，诣治所。
其民为吏所冤，及言盗贼辞讼事，各使属其部从事。
博驻车决遣，四五百人皆罢去，如神。
吏民大惊，不意博应事变乃至于此。
后博徐问，果老从事教民聚会。
博杀此吏，州郡畏博威严。
徙为并州刺史、护漕都尉，迁琅邪太守。
齐舒缓养名，博新视事，右曹掾史皆移病卧。
博问其故，对言： 惶恐！
translation: 
At that time, Xiao Yu, the son of the former general Wangzhi, and Chen Xian, the son of the imperial censor Wan Nian, were known for their outstanding talents because they were the sons of Gongqing, and Zhu Bo was friendly with them.
At that time, the counties where the imperial mausoleums were located were all under the jurisdiction of Taichang, and Zhu Bo was appointed as Anlingcheng because Taichang was found to be clean and honest.
Later he resigned from the official position and went to Jingzhao. He successively served as Cao Shilie's deputy, and went out of Beijing to become the postal governor and secretary. He handled the local affairs under his jurisdiction very well, and everyone in the county praised him.
Chen Xian was appointed as Yushi Zhongcheng. He was convicted of leaking words that were prohibited by the palace and was imprisoned.
Zhu Bo resigned from his official position and secretly walked to Tingwei's house to investigate Chen Xian's case.
Chen Xian was tortured and interrogated and was seriously injured. Zhu Bo pretended to be a doctor and went to prison. He was able to see Chen Xian and fully knew the crime he had committed.
Zhu Bo was released from prison, changed his name, and suffered the punishment for Chen Xian. He was beaten hundreds of times, and Chen Xian was finally exempted from the death penalty.
Chen Xian was sentenced to be released from prison, and Zhu Bo became famous because of this incident and became a county meritorious official.
After a long time, Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, and General Wang Feng took control of the government. He petitioned Chen Xian to be the chief historian.
Chen Xian recommended Xiao Yu and Zhu Bo as shogunate officials. Wang Feng was surprised by Zhu Bo's talents, so he recommended Zhu Bo to be the magistrate of Luyang. Later, he was transferred to Yunyang and Pingling counties. Because of his best political performance, he was appointed to the capital as the magistrate of Chang'an.
After the Qingming Dynasty in Kyoto, he was promoted to governor of Jizhou.
Zhu Bo was originally a military attaché and had no experience in handling matters in a civil service. When he became a governor and inspected his subordinates, hundreds of officials and civilians blocked the road and complained on their own. The government offices were full. Officers came to report and requested to stay in the county temporarily. They registered and met with everyone who complained on their own. After the matter was completed, they set off. They wanted to use this to observe and test Zhu Bo.
Zhu Bo understood in his heart and told the outsiders to prepare the carriages and horses quickly.
The officers reported that the carriages and horses were ready. Zhu Bo came out and boarded the carriages to meet with those who had complained on their own. He sent officers to clearly inform the officials and the people: Those who want to complain to the county magistrate, and the governor does not supervise the officials in Huang Shou, should go to the county on their own.
If you want to complain to the official Mo Shou, who has two thousand stones, wait for the envoy to come back from inspecting his subordinates and go to the governor's office.
People who were wronged by officials or who complained about robbers and thieves had to go to their respective departments to handle the matter.
Zhu Bo stopped the car and issued a verdict, and four to five hundred people left, like gods.
The officials and the people were shocked. They did not expect Zhu Bo to deal with the unexpected events to such an extent.
Later, Zhu Bo slowly investigated and found out that he was always engaged in instigating people to gather in gatherings.
Zhu Bo killed this official, and all the prefectures and counties were afraid of Zhu Bo's majesty.
Zhu Bo was transferred to Bingzhou governor and canal guard, and was promoted to Langxie prefect.
The custom in Qi County is that people are slow-tempered and arrogant to cultivate their reputation. Zhu Bo had just taken office, and the right Cao Shidu wrote a letter saying that he was ill and bedridden.
Zhu Bo asked the reason and replied: Fear!


Chunk 8: 
original: 
故事二千石新到，辄遣吏存问致意，乃敢起就职。
博奋髯抵几曰： 观齐儿欲以此为俗邪！
乃召见诸曹史书佐及县大吏，选视其可用者，出教置之。
皆斥罢诸病吏，白巾走出府门。
郡中大惊。
顷之，门下掾赣遂耆老大儒，教授数百人，拜起舒迟。
博出教主簿： 赣老生不习吏礼，主簿且教拜起，闲习乃止。
又敕功曹： 官属多褒衣大袑，不中节度，自今掾史衣皆令去地三寸。
博尤不爱诸生，所至郡辄罢去议曹，曰： 岂可复置谋曹邪！
文学儒吏时有奏记称说云云，博见谓曰： 如太守汉吏，奉三尺律令以从事耳，亡奈生所言圣人道何也！
且持此道归，尧、舜君出，为陈说之。
其折逆人如此。
视事数年，大改其俗，掾史礼节如梦、赵吏。
博治郡，常令属县各用其豪桀以为大吏，文武从宜。
县有剧贼及它非常，博辄移书以诡责之。
其尽力有效，必加厚赏；怀诈不称，诛罚辄行。以是豪强慹服。
姑幕县有群辈八人报仇廷中，皆不得。
长吏自系书言府，贼曹掾史自白请至姑幕。事留不出。
功曹诸掾即皆自白，复不出。
于是府丞诣阁，博乃见丕丞掾曰： 以为县自有长吏，府未尝与也，丞掾谓府当与之邪？
阁下书佐入，博口占檄文曰： 府告姑幕令丞：言贼发不得，有书。
檄到，令丞就职，游檄王卿力有余，如律令！
王卿得敕惶怖，亲属失色，昼夜驰鹜，十余日间捕得五人。
博复移书曰： 王卿忧公甚效！
檄到，赍伐阅诣府。
translation: 
According to precedent, when the governor of Erqianshi had just arrived, he always sent officials to express condolences and express greetings before we dared to formally take office.
Zhu Bo was so angry that his beard stood up straight, he slapped the desk and said: Do the boys from Qi County want to make this a custom?
Zhu Bo then summoned various Cao Shishu and county officials, selected those who seemed to be available, and issued an edict to fill the vacancies.
Expulsion and dismissal of various officials who complained of illness, and let them walk out of the government office wearing white scarves.
The county was shocked.
Soon, his disciple Yue Gan was an old and respected Confucian scholar who taught hundreds of people.
Zhu Bo came out to instruct Tubu and said: "The old Confucian scholar in Gan Sui is not familiar with the etiquette of officials. For the time being, the chief secretary will teach him to kneel down and sit up until he is familiar with it."
He also told the meritorious officials: Most of the subordinate officials wear loose clothes and long trousers, which does not comply with the rules and regulations. From now on, the officials will keep their clothes three inches off the ground.
Zhu Bo particularly disliked Zhu Sheng, so he abandoned the Yicao in the counties he visited, saying: "How can we set up another Yicao!"
Literary Confucian officials from time to time submitted documents to express their opinions and cited scriptures and so on. When Zhu Bo saw it, he said to them: The prefect is an official of the Han Dynasty. He only handles affairs according to the three-foot laws and regulations. It has nothing to do with the saint's way you mentioned.
For the time being, take your road and go back. When Yao and Shun appear, explain it to them again.
This is how he uses frustration to drive others away.
Zhu Bo served for several years and greatly changed the customs of Qi County. The etiquette of the governors was the same as that of the officials of Chu and Tang.
Zhu Bo governed the counties and counties, and often asked the subordinate counties to appoint local heroes and officials, either literary or military, as appropriate.
When there were powerful thieves and other sudden changes in the county, Zhu Bo sent documents to instruct them to deal with them.
Among them, those who exert their talents and achieve results will be generously rewarded; those who are deceitful and incompetent will be punished immediately, so the powerful are intimidated.
In Gumu County, eight of my friends committed murder in revenge in the county court, but none of them were caught.
The chief official personally took the document and reported it to the prefect's mansion. The thief Cao Yushi confessed his feelings and asked to go to the aunt's palace. The matter was shelved and no instructions were issued.
The meritorious officials all went to express their feelings, but they did not send it out.
So the prime minister went to the prefect's house, and Zhu Bo then met the prime minister and said, "I think the county has its own officials, and the prime minister has never participated in this matter. Does the prime minister think that the prime minister should be involved in this matter?"
When the secretary came in, Zhu Bo did not need to draft anything, but casually drew up a message and said: The government official announced to the aunt Lingcheng: There is a report from the county that the thieves have risen and have not been captured.
As soon as the proclamation arrived and the prime minister took up his post, Wang Qing did not try his best to complete the duties stipulated by the law!
Wang Qing was very frightened when he received the notice, and his relatives turned pale with panic. Wang Qing ran around day and night and captured five people in more than ten days.
Zhu Bo also sent a document saying: Wang Qing is worried about the public affairs, and it is very effective!
As soon as the message arrived, he came to the house with his merit book.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
部掾以下亦可用，渐尽其余矣。
其操持下，皆此类也。
以高弟入守左冯翊，满岁为真。
其治左冯翊，文理聪明殊不及薛宣，而多武谲，网络张设，少爱利，敢诛杀。
然亦纵舍，时有大贷，下吏以此为尽力。
长陵大姓尚方禁少时尝盗人妻，见斫，创著其颊。
府功曹受赂，白除禁调守尉。
博闻知，以它事召见，视其面，果有瘢。
博辟左右问禁： 是何等创也？
禁自知情得，叩头服状。
博笑曰： 丈夫固时有是。
冯翊欲洒卿耻，抆拭用禁，能自效不？
禁且喜且惧，对曰： 必死！
博因敕禁： 毋得泄语，有便宜，辄记言。
因亲信之以为耳目。
禁晨夜发起部中盗贼及它伏奸，有功效。
博擢禁连守县令。
久之，召见功曹，闭阁数责以禁等事，与笔札使自记， 积受取一钱以上，无得有所匿。
欺谩半言，断头矣！
功曹惶怖，具自疏奸臧，大小不敢隐。
博知其对以实，乃令就席，受敕自改而已。
投刀使削所记，遣出就职。
功曹后常战栗，不敢蹉跌，博遂成就之。
迁为大司农。
岁余，坐小法，左迁犍为太守。
先是，南蛮若儿数为寇盗，博厚结其昆弟，使为反间，袭杀之，郡中清。
徙为山阳太守，病免官。
复征为光禄大夫，迁廷尉，职典决疑，当讠献平天下狱。
translation: 
The subordinates below can also be appointed, and the remaining people will be captured slowly.
He controls his subordinates, all of this kind of thing.
Because of his outstanding political achievements, Zhu Bo came to Beijing to try out the post of Zuo Fengyi and officially took office one year later.
When he governed Zuo Fengyi, he was inferior to Xue Xuan in etiquette, wisdom and intelligence, but he used more force and cunning, could set up traps, lacked benevolence, could not facilitate people, and dared to punish and kill.
However, he can also relax his charity and be exempted from time to time, so his subordinate officials do their best for him.
Changling's surname was Shang Fangjin. When he was young, he stole someone else's wife and was stabbed, leaving a wound on his cheek.
The meritorious officer of the government took the bribe and reported to the government to appoint Shang Fangjin as the commander-in-chief.
After Zhu Bo heard about it, he summoned him to see him on other official business. Looking at his face, it turned out that there were scars.
Zhu Borang avoided the left and right and asked Shang Fangjin: What kind of trauma is deportation?
Shang Fangjin knew that the truth had been learned by Zhu Bo, so he knelt on the ground and acknowledged the situation.
Zhu Bo smiled and said: "A real man always has such lustful things."
Feng Yi wants to clear away your shame and re-appoint you. Can he take the initiative to serve?
Shang Fangjin was happy and scared at the same time, and replied: I will try my best!
Zhu Bo then warned Shang Fangjin: Don't leak the conversation. If you have anything to do, write it down and tell me.
So I trusted him closely and acted as my eyes and ears.
Shang Fangjin exposed the thieves in his department and other lurking traitors sooner or later, which was a meritorious service.
Zhu Bo promoted Shang Fangjin to serve as county magistrate on trial.
After a long time, Zhu Bo summoned the meritorious officer, closed the door of the pavilion, blamed him for what happened to Shang Fangjin and others, gave him paper and pen, asked him to write it down by himself, and told him: If you accept more than one penny in total, you must not hide anything.
If you tell half a lie, you will be beheaded!
The meritorious officer was so frightened that he wrote out all the dirty money, no matter how big or small, he didn't dare to hide it.
Zhu Bo knew that he answered correctly based on the actual situation, so he asked him to return to his seat and accept the instructions to correct himself.
Throw down the knife and let him cut off the things he recorded, and let him go out and take up his post.
Later, the meritorious officers often trembled with fear and did not dare to make mistakes.
Zhu Bo then made him become prominent. Zhu Bo was promoted to Da Si Nong.
More than a year later, he made a minor mistake and was demoted to become the governor of Jianwei.
Previously, Nanman Ruo'er had become a thief many times. Zhu Bo made close friends with his brothers and asked them to act as internal agents. He attacked and killed Ruo'er, and the county was quiet.
Zhu Bo was transferred to Shanyang Prefecture, but was relieved of his official position because of illness.
He was also recruited as a Guanglu doctor and promoted to Tingwei. His responsibilities were to be in charge of resolving difficult matters and presiding over the world's justice in prison proceedings.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
博恐为官属所诬，视事，召见正监典法掾史，谓曰： 廷尉本起于武吏，不通法律，幸有众贤，亦何忧！
然廷尉治郡断狱以来且二十年，亦独耳剽日久，三尺律令，人事出其中。
掾史试与正监共撰前世决事吏议难知者数十事，持以问廷尉，得为诸君覆意之。
正监以为博苟强，意未必能然，即共条白焉。
博皆召掾史，并坐而问，为平处其轻重，十中八九。
官属咸服博之疏略，材过人也。
每迁徙易官，所到辄出奇谲如此，以明示下为不可欺者。
久之，迁后将军，与红阳侯立相善。
立有罪就国，有司奏立党友，博坐免。
后岁余，哀帝即位，以博名臣，召见，起家复为光禄大夫，迁为京兆尹，数月超为大司空。
初，汉兴袭秦官，置丞相、御史大夫、太尉。
至武帝罢太尉，始置大司马以冠将军之号，非有印绶官属也。
及成帝时，何武为九卿，建言： 古者民朴事约，国之辅佐必得贤圣，然犹则天三光，备三公官，各有分职。
今末俗之弊，政事烦多，宰相之材不能及古，而丞相独兼三公之事，所以久废而不治也。
宜建三公官，定卿大夫之任，分职授政，以考功效。
其后上以问师安昌侯张禹，禹以为然。
时曲阳侯王根为大司马票骑将军，而何武为御史大夫。
于是上赐曲阳侯根大司马印绶，置官属，罢票骑将军官，以御史大夫何武为大司空，封列侯，皆增奉如丞相，以备三公官焉。
议者多以为古今异制，汉自天下之号下至佐史皆不同于古，而独改三公，职事难分明，无益于治乱。
是时，御史府吏舍百余区井水皆竭；又其府中列柏树，常有野乌数千栖宿其上，晨去暮来，号日 朝夕乌 ，乌去不来者数月，长老异之。
后二岁余，朱博为大司空，奏言： 帝王之道不必相袭，各由时务。
translation: 
Zhu Bo was worried that he would be deceived by his subordinates. After taking office, he summoned the chief supervisor, Dian Fa, and the history of law, and said to them: "Tingwei was originally a military attache and did not know the law. Fortunately, there are all good officials, so there is nothing to worry about!"
However, it has been nearly twenty years since Tingwei has governed counties and judged prison cases. He has been exposed to it for a long time, including legal provisions and personnel.
The secretary and the chief prisoner will try to write down dozens of cases that were difficult to understand when officials discussed the cases in the past, and ask Tingwei. Tingwei can make assumptions for you.
The supervisor thought that Zhu Bo was just trying to show off his strength, and expected that he might not be able to do it, so he stated it point by point together.
Zhu Bo summoned all the officials and officials and sat down together to ask questions. Zhu Bo judged the severity of the punishment for them, and eight or nine out of ten of them were correct.
All the officials admired Zhu Bo's ability, which was better than ordinary people.
Every time Zhu Bo was promoted and changed his official position, he would always show his unpredictability like this wherever he went, in order to clearly tell his divination chiefs that he could not be deceived.
After a long time, Zhu Bo was promoted to the post-general and became friendly with Hongyang Houli.
Wang Li was found guilty and returned to his fiefdom. A minister reported to Wang Li's accomplices and friends, and Zhu Bo was found guilty and exempted from office.
More than a year later, Emperor Ai ascended the throne. Since Zhu Bo was a famous minister, he was summoned. Zhu Bo was appointed from his family and became Guanglu doctor, promoted to Jingzhao Yin, and a few months later was promoted to Da Sikong.
At the beginning, when the Han Dynasty arose, it inherited the official system of the Qin Dynasty and set up prime ministers, imperial censors, and Taiwei.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, the Taiwei was deposed and the Grand Sima was appointed, with the title of General and no official official title.
When he became emperor, He Wu was one of the nine ministers. He suggested: In ancient times, the people were simple and the government was simple. The country's assistant ministers must choose wise men and saints. However, they must imitate the three lights of the moon and stars in the sky and set up the official positions of the three princes, each with their own specialties.
The declining custom in the last days is that political affairs are complicated and the prime minister's talents cannot compare with those in ancient times. However, the prime minister alone is responsible for the duties of the three ministers. Therefore, politics has been in decline for a long time and cannot be clear and stable.
The official positions of the three public officials should be set up, the responsibilities of the ministers and officials should be determined, the duties should be divided, and political affairs should be delegated to evaluate the merits and results.
Afterwards, the emperor asked his teacher Zhang Yu, the Marquis of Anchang. Zhang Yu thought He Wu's opinion was right.
At that time, Wang Gen, Marquis of Quyang, was appointed as the Grand Sima Hussar General, while He Wu was appointed as the Imperial Censor.
So the emperor gave Quyanghou Wanggen the seal of the Grand Sima, appointed subordinate officials, dismissed the Hussar General from his position, appointed He Wu, the imperial censor, as the Grand Sima, and made him a marquis. His salary was increased to the same as that of the prime minister to prepare for the official positions of the three princes.
Most of the people who discussed it believed that the ancient and current systems were different. The Han Dynasty's titles from emperor to assistant historian were different from those in ancient times. However, only the three officials were changed, and the positions were difficult to distinguish clearly, which was not beneficial to political governance.
At that time, the wells in more than 100 residences of the officials of the Yushi Mansion had dried up; and there were many cypress trees in the Yushi Mansion, and thousands of wild crows often rested on them. They were called morning and evening crows, and the crows flew away for several months and did not come back. The elderly people felt very strange about this.
More than two years later. When Zhu Bo was appointed Grand Sikong, he wrote in a memorial: Emperors' ways of governing the country do not necessarily inherit from each other. They all have their own changes according to the priorities of the world.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
高皇帝以圣德受命，建立鸿业，置御史大夫，位次丞相，典正法度，以职相参，总领百官，上下相监临，历载二百年，天下安宁。
今更为大司空，与丞相同位，未获嘉祐。
故事，选郡国守相高第为中二千石，选中二千石为御史大夫，任职者为丞相，位次有序，所以尊圣德，重国相也。
今中二千石未更御史大夫而为丞相，权轻，非所以重国政也。
臣愚以为大司空官可罢，复置御史大夫，遵奉旧制。
臣愿尽力，以御史大夫为百僚率。
哀帝从之，乃更拜博为御史大夫。
会大司马喜免，以阳安侯丁明为大司马卫将军，置官属，大司马冠号如故事。
后四岁，哀帝遂改丞相为大司徒，复置大司空、大司马焉。
初，何武为大司空，又与丞相方进共奏言： 古选诸侯贤者以为州伯，《书》曰 咨十有二牧 ，所以广聪明，烛幽隐也。
今部刺史居牧伯之位，秉一州之统，选第大吏，所荐位高至九卿，所恶立退，任重职大。
《春秋》之义，用贵治贱，不以卑临尊。
刺史位下大夫，而临二千石，轻重不相准，失位次之序。
臣请罢刺史，更置州牧，以应古制。
奏可。
及博奏复御史大夫官，又奏言： 汉家至德溥大，宇内万里，立置郡县。
部刺史奉使典州，督察郡国，吏民安宁。
故事，居部九岁举为守相，其有异材功效著者辄登擢，秩卑而赏厚，咸劝功乐进。
前丞相方进奏罢刺史，更置州牧，秩真二千石，位次九卿。
九卿缺，以高第补，其中材则苟自守而已，恐功效陵夷，奸轨不禁。
臣请罢州牧，置刺史如故。
translation: 
Emperor Gao accepted the mandate of heaven with his holy virtue, established the royal business, and appointed a censor, whose status was second to the prime minister. He was in charge of organizing the legal system, participated in political affairs according to his duties, governed hundreds of officials, and supervised each other between superiors and subordinates. After two hundred years, the world was stable and peaceful.
Now it has been changed to Da Sikong, who has the same status as the Prime Minister and does not receive the protection of the gods.
According to precedent, officials with outstanding political achievements of 2,000 shi were selected, officials with 2,000 shi were selected as censors, and those who were qualified were selected as prime ministers. The rankings were very orderly, in order to respect the emperor's virtue and respect the country's prime minister.
Nowadays, the officials in Zhongerqianshi are appointed as prime ministers without having experienced the imperial censor. Their power is very light, which is not a method of respecting national politics.
I think the official position of Da Sikong can be abolished, and the imperial censor should be re-established and follow the original official system.
I am willing to do my best to appoint the imperial censor as an example for all officials.
Emperor Ai listened to his advice and appointed him as the imperial censor.
When the great Sima Fu was relieved of his duties, Emperor Ai appointed Dingming, Marquis of Yang'an, as the great Sima Wei general, and appointed subordinate staff. The great Sima was given the same title of general as before.
Four years later, Emperor Ai changed the prime minister to Da Situ, and established Da Sikong and Da Sima.
At the beginning, He Wu was appointed as the Grand Sikong, and he and Prime Minister Zhai Fangjin submitted a memorial: In ancient times, the most virtuous and talented among the princes were selected as state uncles. The "Book" said: Discuss with the twelve state uncles.
This is a method used to expand the audio-visual range and discern the subtle points. Nowadays, the governor of the Ministry occupies the official position of Zhoubo, presides over the discipline of a state, selects and recommends high officials, and the recommended officials are as high as Jiuqing. Those who are disgusted are immediately dismissed. The responsibilities are heavy and the power is great.
The great principle of "Spring and Autumn" is to appoint noble people to control humble people, and not to use low-status people to rule high-status people.
The governor's status was lower than that of the doctor, but he was in charge of two thousand shi of officials. The importance was disproportionate and the order of status and hierarchy was lost.
We request that the provincial governor be abolished and the prefecture be established instead to conform to the ancient system.
The memorial was approved.
When Zhu Bo petitioned for the restoration of the imperial censor's official position, he also wrote: "The Han family has great virtues and has established counties and counties throughout the world."
The governor of the Ministry was ordered to take charge of the government affairs of a state, supervise and inspect the county, and the officials and people were peaceful.
According to precedent, those who have served in the ministry for nine years are recommended as prime ministers. Among them, those with outstanding talents and outstanding achievements are promoted. The positions are low and the rewards are generous. Officials are dedicated to meritorious service and are willing to make progress.
Previously, Prime Minister Zhai Fang made a petition to abandon the governorship and establish a state pastoral ministry. The salary would be two thousand dan, and his status would be second to that of Jiuqing.
If the vacancy of Jiuqing is to be filled by state ministers with outstanding political achievements, then people with moderate talents will just keep themselves. I am afraid that their achievements will decline and those who do evil will not be able to stop them.
I request that the prefecture be abolished and the governor be established as before. The memorial was approved.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
奏可。博为人廉俭，不好酒色游宴。
自微贱至富贵，食不重味，案上不过三怀，夜寝早起，妻希见其面。
有一女，无男。
然好乐士大夫，为郡守九卿，宾客满门，欲仕宦者荐举之，欲报仇怨者解剑以带之。
其趋事待士如是，博以此自立，然终用败。
初，哀帝祖母定陶太后欲求称尊号，太后从弟高武侯傅喜为大司马，与丞相孔光、大司空师丹共持正议。
孔乡侯傅晏亦太后从弟，谄谀欲顺指，会博新征用为京兆尹，与交结，谋成尊号，以广孝道。
由是师丹先免，博代为大司空，数燕见奏封事，言： 丞相光志在自守，不能忧国；大司马喜至尊至亲，阿党大臣，无益政治。
上遂罢喜遣就国，免光为庶人，以博代光为丞相，封阳乡侯，食邑二千户。
博上书让曰： 故事封丞相不满千户，而独臣过制，诚惭惧，愿还千户。
上许焉。
傅太后怨傅喜不已，使孔乡侯晏风丞相，令奏免喜侯。
博受诏，与御史大夫赵玄议，玄言： 事已前决，得无不宜？
博曰： 已许孔乡侯有指。
匹夫相要，尚相得死，何况至尊？
博唯有死耳！
玄即许可。
博恶独斥奏喜，以故大司空汜乡侯何武前亦坐过免就国，事与喜相似，即并奏： 喜、武前在位，皆无益于治，虽已退免，爵士之封非所当得也。请皆免为庶人。
上知傅太后素常怨喜，疑博、玄承指，即召玄诣尚书问状。
玄辞服，有诏左将军彭宣与中朝者杂问。
translation: 
Zhu Bo was honest and frugal, and did not like wine, women, sex, entertainment, and entertainment.
From the humble to the rich and noble, there is no variety of dishes for meals, and there are no more than three bowls and plates on the table. He sleeps peacefully at night and gets up early, and his wife rarely sees him.
Has a daughter but no son.
However, he was willing to make friends with scholar-bureaucrats. When he was the governor of Jiuqing, the house was full of guests. Those who wanted to be officials recommended him, and those who wanted revenge took off their swords and brought them to him.
Zhu Bo managed world affairs and treated scholars like this, so he made great achievements with his own strength, but in the end he was defeated.
At first, Emperor Ai's grandmother, the Empress Dowager Dingtao, wanted to take the honorary title. The Empress Dowager's cousin Gao Wuhou Fu happy was appointed as the Grand Sima. Together with the Prime Minister Kong Guang and the Grand Sikong Shidan, he insisted on integrity.
Fu Yan, the Marquis of Kongxiang, was also the cousin of the Queen Mother. He was flattering and wanted to obey the Queen Mother's wishes. When Zhu Bo had just been recruited and appointed as Jing Zhaoyin, he colluded with him in an attempt to get the Queen Mother a title to promote filial piety.
Therefore, Shi Dan was dismissed from office first, and Zhu Bo replaced him as the Grand Sikong. He presented sealed memorials to the inner court many times, saying: Prime Minister Jie Guang's ambition is to protect himself and not to worry about the country; Grand Sima Fuxi is extremely noble and is the closest relative, but he flatters the ministers and forms cliques with the ministers, which is not beneficial to political governance.
The emperor then dismissed Fu happy and banished him back to his fiefdom. He dismissed Kong Guang as a commoner and appointed Zhu Bo as prime minister instead of Kong Guang.
Zhu Bo presented a memorial and declined, saying: "According to precedent, the number of food fiefs granted to the prime minister does not exceed one thousand households, but I am the only one who exceeded the limit. I am really ashamed and afraid, and I hope to return one thousand households."
The emperor granted his request.
Empress Dowager Fu was still resentful of Fu happy, so she sent Fu Yan, the Marquis of Kongxiang, to persuade the prime minister politely and ordered him to write a memorial to remove Fu happy from his position.
Zhu Bo accepted the Queen Mother's order and discussed it with the imperial censor, Tang Xuan. Tang Xuan said: "The matter has been decided before. Wouldn't it be inappropriate to do this?"
Zhu Bo said: "I have agreed to the Marquis Kong Xiang, and it is the Queen Mother's will."
The common people prayed to each other and even died for him, let alone the supreme Queen Mother?
I only have one death left.
Tuxuan then agreed.
Zhu Bo did not want to reprimand Fu Xi alone. Since the original chief minister, Fanxiang Hou He Wu, had been dismissed from his post and returned to his fiefdom due to his fault. The situation was similar to Fu Xi's, so he raised the memorial together: Fu Xi and He Wu were officials before, which was not beneficial to political governance. Although they have been dismissed from office, the rewards of titles and fiefs are not what they deserve. Please exempt them from civilian status.
The emperor knew that Empress Dowager Fu always resented Fu happy and suspected that Zhu Bo and Zhao Xuan had accepted the empress dowager's order, so he summoned Xuan Xuan to the minister to interrogate the truth.
After Te Xuan confessed, the emperor ordered General Peng Xuan of the Left to interrogate him together with Chinese and Korean officials.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
宣等劾奏： 博宰相，玄上卿，晏以外亲封位特进，股肱大臣，上所信任，不思竭诚奉公，务广恩化，为百寮先，皆知喜、武前已蒙恩诏决，事更三赦，博执正道，亏损上恩，以结信贵戚，背君乡臣，倾乱政治，奸人之雄，附下罔上，为臣不忠不道；玄知博所言非法，枉义附从，大不敬；晏与博议免喜，失礼不敬。
臣请诏谒者召博、玄、晏诣廷尉诏狱。
制曰： 将军、中二千石、二千石、诸大夫、博士、议郎议。
右将军蟜望等四十四人以为： 如宣等言，可许。
谏大夫龚胜等十四人以为： 《春秋》之义，奸以事君，常刑不舍。
鲁大夫叔孙侨如欲颛公室，谮其族兄季孙行父于晋，晋执囚行父以乱鲁国，《春秋》重而书之。
今晏放命圯族，干乱朝政，要大臣以罔上，本造计谋，职为乱阶，宜与博、玄同罪，罪皆不道。
上减玄死罪三等，削晏户四分之一，假谒者节召丞相诣廷尉诏狱。
博自杀，国除。
初，博以御史为丞相，封阳乡侯，玄以少府为御史大夫，并拜于前殿，廷登受策，有音如钟声。
语在《五行志》。
赞曰：薛宣、朱博皆起佐史，历位以登宰相。
宣所在而治，为世吏师，及居大位，以苛察失名，器诚有极也。
博驰聘进取，不思道德，已亡可言，又见孝成之世委任大臣，假借用权。
世主已更，好恶异前，复附丁、傅称顺孔乡。
事发见诘，遂陷诬罔，辞穷情得，仰药饮鸠。
孔子曰： 久矣哉，由之行诈也！
博亦然哉！
translation: 
Peng Xuan and other impeachment officials said: Zhu Bo is the prime minister, Zhao Xuan is the minister, Fu Yan was granted the title because he was a relative of his maternal family, and he occupies a special position. They are all assistant ministers and people trusted by the emperor. They do not consider being loyal to the emperor, but focus on official affairs. They are committed to promoting kindness and education and setting an example for all officials. Everyone knows that Fu happy and He Wu have already made decisions with the emperor's favor, and the matter has been pardoned three times. Zhu Bo persisted in heresy, harmed the emperor's kindness, made friends with relatives who had the trust of the nobles, betrayed the emperor, favored ministers, overturned and disrupted political affairs. He was the leader of treacherous ministers, supported his ministers, deceived the emperor, was unfaithful as a minister, and did not abide by the rules of a minister. Tsang Xuan knew that what Zhu Bo said was illegal and it was disrespectful to distort moral principles and obey. Fu Yan and Zhu Bo discussed removing Fu happy from his position, which was disrespectful.
We asked the emperor to order his visitors to summon Zhu Bo, Tang Xuan, and Fu Yan to go to the prison where Tingwei held the prisoners.
The emperor ordered: The general, the officials who have won two thousand stones, the officials of two thousand stones, all the officials, doctors, and Yilang will discuss it.
Forty-four people including Right General Jiao Wang believed that it could be allowed as Peng Xuan and others said.
Fourteen people including Gong Sheng, the remonstrating official, believed that according to the righteousness of the Spring and Autumn Annals, the ministers used evil and cunning to serve the monarch, which was unacceptable under the national law.
If Uncle Sun Qiao, a senior official in the Lu State, wanted to dominate the state affairs of the Lu State, he framed his elder brother Ji Sun Xingfu to the Jin State. The state of Jin arrested and imprisoned Xingfu to disturb the state of Lu. The Spring and Autumn Annals paid attention to and recorded this incident.
Now Fu Yan has given up the decree and destroyed the clan, interfered and disrupted the court affairs, and made friends with ministers to deceive the emperor. He set up schemes, which is the main source of trouble. He should be charged with the same crime as Zhu Bo and Tang Xuan, both of whom are guilty of treason.
The emperor exempted Fu Yan from the third-class death penalty, cut off a quarter of Fu Yan's food, and asked the visitors to summon the prime minister to the prison where the prisoners were held.
Zhu Bo committed suicide and the fief was taken back.
At the beginning, Zhu Bo was promoted from imperial censor to prime minister and was granted the title of Marquis of Yangxiang. Zhao Xuan was promoted from the Shaofu to the imperial censor, and he received his official position in the front hall together. When he was led to the hall to receive his orders, there was a loud sound like the ringing of a bell.
This incident is recorded in the "Five Elements Chronicles".
Zan said: Xue Xuan and Zhu Bo both came from Zushi, and successively held official positions and were promoted to prime ministers.
Xue Xuan's place was well governed, and he was a teacher of the officials of the time. When he became prime minister, he lost his reputation because he showed his shrewdness by being harsh and cumbersome, and his talents were indeed limited.
Zhu Bo worked hard to make progress without considering morality and justice, which was nothing worthy of praise. He also saw that during the Xiaocheng era, he entrusted important responsibilities to ministers, so he resorted to abusing his power.
The current monarch has changed, and his likes and dislikes are different from those of the previous monarchs. Zhu Bo relied on the Ding family and the Fu family, and obeyed the Marquis of Kongxiang.
After the incident was discovered, he was blamed and fell into the charge of deceiving the emperor. When the truth was revealed, he drank the poison.
Wang Yu said: Wang Chong has been cheating for a long time!
Celi is like this too!


