Chunk 0: 
original: 
《洪范》八政，三曰祀。
祀者，所以昭孝事祖，通神明也。
旁及四夷，莫不修之；下至禽兽，豺獭有祭。
是以圣王为之典礼。
民之精爽不贰，齐肃聪明者，神或降之，在男曰觋，在女曰巫，使制神之处位，为之牲器。
使先圣之后，能知山川，敬于礼仪，明神之事者，以为祝；能知四时牺牲，坛场上下，氏姓所出者，以为宗。
故有神民之官，各司其序，不相乱也。
民神异业，敬而不黩，故神降之嘉生，民以物序，灾祸不至，所求不匮。
及少昊之衰，九黎乱德，民神杂扰，不可放物。
家为巫史，享祀无度，黩齐明而神弗蠲。
嘉生不降，祸灾荐臻，莫尽其气。
颛顼受之，乃命南正重司天以属神，命火正黎司地以属民，使复旧常，亡相侵黩。
自共工氏霸九州，其子曰句龙，能平水土，死为社祠。
有烈山氏王天下，其子曰柱，能殖百谷，死为稷祠。
故郊祀社稷，所从来尚矣。
《虞书》曰：舜在璇玑玉衡，以齐七政。
遂类于上帝，禋于六宗，望秩于山川，遍于群神。
揖五瑞，择吉月日，见四岳诸牧，班瑞。
岁二月，东巡狩，至于岱宗。
岱宗，泰山也。
柴，望秩于山川。遂见东后。
东后者，诸侯也。
合时月正日，同律、度、量、衡，修五礼、五乐，三帛二生一死为贽。
五月，巡狩至南岳。
南岳者，衡山也。
八月，巡狩至西岳。
西岳者，华山也。
十一月，巡狩至北岳。
北岳者，恒山也。
皆如岱宗之礼。
中岳，嵩高也。
五载一巡狩。
禹遵之。
后十三世，至帝孔甲，淫德好神，神黩，二龙去之。
translation: 
Among the eight types of government officials in "Hong Fan", the third type is called sacrificial officials.
Sacrifice is used to show filial piety, serve ancestors and understand gods.
Sacrifices are spread all over the surrounding ethnic minorities, and they all perform sacrifices; even animals, jackals and otters also perform sacrifices.
Therefore, the sage king established laws and rituals for the sacrifices.
If the spirit is single-minded, respectful, solemn and wise, the gods may come to him and call 觋 on men and witches on women, so that the gods can reach the gods and provide him with sacrifices.
The descendants of the sages of the previous generation who can understand the mountains and rivers, worship etiquette, and understand the affairs of the gods are regarded as wizards; those who can understand the pure-color livestock used for sacrifices in the four seasons, the conditions of the places where sacrifices are held, and the origin of the gods are called sect members.
Therefore, there are officials above the gods and officials below the people, each managing his own affairs without confusion.
The people and the gods have different karma, respecting and not offending, so the gods send him good luck, and the people follow the natural order, disasters will not come, and there will be no shortage of what they need.
After the young Emperor Wu weakened, nine members of the Li family rebelled, causing chaos in people and spirits and unable to follow the principles of justice.
The family is worshiped by witches and sacrifices are made without restraint, which defiles the gods and the gods consider them unclean.
Good luck will not come, disaster will come often, and he will not be able to complete his life.
Zhuanxu accepted this situation and ordered Nan Zhengzhong to master astronomy to entrust the gods, and Huo Zhengli to master geography to entrust the people, so that the world could return to its previous normal state and not violate or defile the gods.
Since the Gonggong family dominated the Kyushu, his son named Julong was able to pacify the water and soil, and was worshiped as the land god after his death.
There was a man named Lieshan who ruled the world, and his son was named Zhu. He could produce hundreds of grains and was worshiped as a grain god after his death.
Therefore, worshiping the gods of land and cereals in the countryside has a very early origin.
"Yu Shu" says that Shun observed the Xuanji Jade Scale and came to organize the sun, moon, five stars and seven political affairs.
So they offered sacrifices to heaven, six sects inside, mountains and rivers, and gods all over the place.
Collect the auspicious jade from the princes, princes, uncles, sons and men, choose an auspicious month and auspicious day, meet with the pastors and guardians of the princes from all over the world, and award the auspicious jade to them.
In February every year, he will go to the east for inspection and arrive at Daizong.
Daizong is Mount Tai.
Burn firewood and look at the mountain for sacrifice according to rank. So the meeting ended.
Shuhou refers to the princes.
Harmonize the four o'clock and months and correct the dates, unify the rhythm and weights and measures, revise the five rituals and five music, and use three silks, two life and one death as the ritual of stinging.
In May, we visited Nanyue.
Nanyue refers to Hengshan Mountain.
In August, he inspected Huashan Mountain.
Huashan refers to Huashan.
In November, he inspected Beiyue.
Beiyue refers to Hengshan Mountain.
They are all the same as Daizong's etiquette.
Zhongyue refers to Mount Song.
Inspections are conducted every five years.
Dayu continued this inspection system.
Thirteen generations later, when Emperor Kongjia arrived, he had bad moral conduct and liked to worship gods. The gods were defiled and two dragons left.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
其后十三世，汤伐桀，欲迁夏社，不可，作《夏社》。
乃迁烈山子柱，而以周弃代为稷祠。
后八世，帝太戊有桑穀生于廷，一暮大拱，惧。
伊陟曰： 祆不胜德。
太戊修德，桑穀死。
伊陟赞巫咸。
后十三世，帝武丁得傅说为相，殷复兴焉，称高宗。
有雉登鼎耳而雊，武丁惧。
祖己曰： 修德。
武丁从之，位以永宁。
后五世，帝乙嫚神而震死。
后三世，帝纣淫乱，武王伐之。
由是观之，始未尝不肃祇，后稍怠嫚也。
周公相成王，王道大洽，制礼作乐，天子曰明堂、辟雍，诸侯曰泮宫。
郊祀后稷以配天，宗祀文王于明堂以配上帝。
四海之内各以其职来助祭。
天子祭天下名山、大川，怀柔百神，咸秩无文。
五岳视三公，四渎视诸侯。
而诸侯祭其疆内名山、大川，大夫祭门、户、井、灶、中霤五祀，士、庶人祖考而已。
各有典礼，而淫祀有禁。
后十三世，世益衰，礼乐废。
幽王无道，为犬戎所败，平王东徙雒邑。
秦襄公攻若救周，列为诸侯，而居西，自以为主少昊之神，作西畤，祠白帝，其牲用駠驹、黄牛、羝羊各一云。
其后十四年，秦文公东猎汧、渭之间，卜居之而吉。
文公梦黄蛇自天下属地，其口止于鄜衍。
文公问史敦，敦曰： 此上帝之征，君其祠之 。
于是作鄜畤，用三牲郊祭白帝焉。
自未作鄜，而雍旁故有吴阳武畤，雍东有好畤，皆废无祀。
translation: 
Thirteen generations later, Tang conquered Xia Jie and planned to move the Xia Dynasty's land and sacred sites. When this failed, he made "Xia She".
So he demoted Lieshan's son Zhu, and sacrificed Zhou Guo's son to the Grain God instead.
Eight generations later, Emperor Taiwu had two mulberry and valley trees growing in the courtyard. One night they grew as thick as an arch. Taiwu felt very frightened.
Yi Zhi said: Monsters cannot defeat virtue.
Taiwu practiced virtue, and the mulberry and grain trees died.
Yi Zhi informed Wu Xian about this.
Thirteen generations later, Emperor Wuding got Fu Yue as prime minister, the Yin Dynasty prospered again, and Wuding was named Gaozong.
A pheasant climbed onto the tripod and began to crow. Wu Ding became frightened.
Zu Ji said: We must cultivate virtue.
Wu Ding obeyed his words, and the throne has always been peaceful.
Five generations later, Emperor Yi neglected the gods and was struck by thunder and died.
Three generations later, Emperor Zhou became promiscuous, and King Wu launched a crusade against him.
From this point of view, it seems that at the beginning there was no lack of respect for the gods, but later on it gradually became neglected and relaxed.
The Duke of Zhou assisted in becoming king, and the king's way was quite harmonious. He established rituals and created music. The places where the emperor worshiped the heaven were called Mingtang and Piyong, and the places where the princes worshiped were called Pangong.
The sacrifices to Hou Ji in the suburbs were made to match the offerings to heaven, and the sacrifices to King Wen in the Mingtang clan were made to match the offerings to heaven.
Within the four seas, everyone assists in the sacrifice according to their own positions.
The emperor offered sacrifices to the world's famous mountains and rivers, and invited the gods to appease them, all in accordance with order rather than etiquette.
Treat the Five Mountains as if they were the three nobles, and treat the Four Sacred Mountains as if they were the princes.
The princes only offered sacrifices to the famous mountains and rivers within their territory, the officials offered sacrifices to the five places including gates, properties, wells, stoves and middle passages, while the common people only offered sacrifices to their ancestors.
Each has its own laws and etiquette, and any indulgence in sacrifice must be prohibited.
Thirteen generations later, the world declined even more and rituals and music were abolished.
King You lost his royal power and was defeated by Quanrong. King Ping moved eastward to Luoyi.
Duke Xianggang of Qin attacked the Quan Rong and rescued the king of Zhou. He was classified as a prince and lived in the west. He thought he represented the God of Shao Wu. He built Xizhi and offered sacrifices to the White Emperor. The sacrifices used were one horse, one colt, one ox and one ram each.
For the next fourteen years, Duke Wen of Qin went eastward to hunt between Yi and Wei, and he divined the situation of his residence and got good omens.
Duke Wen dreamed of a yellow snake hanging from the sky to the ground, and its mouth rested on the hillside of Wandi.
Duke Wen asked Shi Dun, who said: "This is a symbol of heaven. You want to sacrifice it."
So he built a fortress and used three animals to worship Baidi in the suburbs.
Before the establishment of Yongzhi, there used to be Wuyang Wuzhi next to Yongcheng, and there were good Zhizhi in Yongcheng and Cambodia, but they were all abandoned and no one worshiped them.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
或曰： 自古以雍州积高，神明之隩，故立畤郊上帝，诸神祠皆聚云。
盖黄帝时尝用事，虽晚周亦郊焉。
其语不经见，缙绅者弗道。
作鄜后九年，文公获若石云，于陈仓北阪城祠之。
其神或岁不至，或岁数。
来也常以夜，光辉若流星，从东方来，集于祠城，若雄雉，其声殷殷云，野鸡夜鸣。
以一牢祠之，名曰陈宝。
作陈宝祠后七十一年，秦德公立，卜居雍。
子孙饮马于河，遂都雍。
雍之诸祠自此兴。
用三百牢于鄜。
作伏祠。
磔狗邑四门，以御蛊灾。
后四年，秦宣公作密畤于渭南，祭青帝。
后十三年，秦穆公立，病卧五日不寤，寤，乃言梦见上帝，上帝命穆公平晋乱。
史书而藏之府。
而后世皆曰上天。
穆公立九年，齐桓公既霸，会诸侯于葵丘，而欲封禅。
管仲曰： 古者封泰山禅梁父者七十二家，而夷吾所记者十有二焉。
昔无怀氏封泰山，禅云云；虙羲封泰山，禅云云；神农氏封泰山，禅云云；炎帝封泰山，禅云云；黄帝封泰山，禅亭亭；颛顼封泰山，禅云云；帝喾封泰山，禅云云；尧封泰山，禅云云；舜封泰山，禅云云；禹封泰山，禅会稽；汤封泰山，禅云云；周成王封泰山，禅于社首；皆受命然后得封禅。
桓公曰： 寡人北伐山戎，过孤竹；西伐，束马县车，上卑耳之山；南伐至召陵，登熊耳山，以望江、汉。
兵车之会三，乘车之会六，九合诸侯，一匡天下，诸侯莫违我。
昔三代受命，亦何以异乎？
translation: 
Some people say: Since ancient times, Yongzhou has always been the residence of gods due to its high terrain, so altars have been built to worship heaven in the suburbs, and temples of various gods have gathered here.
Sacrifices were held during the Huangdi period, and suburban sacrifices were also held in the late Zhou Dynasty.
These words are not found in the classics and are not spoken by scholar-bureaucrats.
Nine years after the establishment of the palace, Duke Wen of Qin got a stone-like object and worshiped it in the city on the northern hillside of Chencang.
Sometimes this god doesn't come throughout the year, and sometimes it comes several times a year.
They often come at night, and there are lights like shooting stars coming from the east and gathering in the temple city, and there are lights like roosters, crowing loudly, attracting wild geese to crow at night.
Using an animal to sacrifice it is called Chen Bao.
Seventy-one years after the establishment of Chen Bao Temple, Qin Degong became emperor and lived in Yongcheng after divination.
His descendants expanded their territory to the banks of the Yellow River and established their capital in Yongcheng.
The temples in Yongcheng began to flourish from this time.
Three hundred animals were sacrificed in Yongzhi.
Build a temple to worship.
The dogs were divided and hung on the four gates of the city to protect against evil spirits.
Four years later, Qin Xuangong established a secret camp in Weinan to worship the Qing Emperor.
Thirteen years later, Duke Mu of Qin became king. He lay ill in bed and did not wake up for five days. When he woke up, he said that he had dreamed of heaven, and God ordered Mu Gong to quell the chaos in Jin.
The historian recorded it and hid it in the mansion.
Later generations said that Duke Mu of Qin went to heaven.
In the ninth year of Duke Mu of Qin's reign, Duke Huan of Qi had already become the hegemon. He convened an alliance of princes in Kuiqiu and came up with the idea of ​​enfeoffing Hui.
Guan Zhong said: In ancient times, there were seventy-two families who built earth altars on Mount Tai to offer sacrifices to heaven. There were seventy-two families who worshiped earth on Mount Liangfu, but Yiwu recorded twelve families.
In the past, Wuhuai offered sacrifices to heaven on Mount Tai and to earth in Yunyun; Chuxi offered sacrifices to heaven in Mount Tai and earth in Yunyun; Shennong offered sacrifices to heaven in Mount Tai and to earth in Yunyun; Emperor Yan offered sacrifices to heaven in Mount Tai and earth in Yunyun; Huangdi offered sacrifices to heaven in Mount Tai and earth in pavilions; Zhuanxu offered sacrifices to heaven in Mount Tai and earth in Yunyun; Emperor Yan in Tai. Yao offered sacrifices to heaven on Mount Tai and earth in Yunyun; Shun offered sacrifices to heaven on Mount Tai and earth in Yunyun; Yu offered sacrifices to heaven on Mount Tai and earth in Kuaiji; Tang offered sacrifices to heaven on Mount Tai and earth in Yunyun; King Cheng of Zhou worshiped heaven on Mount Tai and earth in Sheshou: all of them were granted Zen status after being appointed as emperors by heaven.
Duke Huan of Qi said: I marched north to conquer Shanrong and passed by Lone Bamboo; marched west, reined up my horse and climbed Mount Beier; marched south to Zhaoling and climbed Xiong'er Mountain to overlook the Yangtze River and Han River.
There were three alliances in military chariots, six general alliances, and nine alliances with the princes. I unified the world and none of the princes disobeyed me.
What is the difference from the previous three generations who received destiny?


Chunk 3: 
original: 
于是管仲睹桓公不可穷以辞，因设之以事，曰： 古之封禅，鄗上黍，北里禾，所以为盛；江、淮间一茅三脊，所以为藉也。
东海致比目之鱼，西海致北翼之鸟。
然后物有不召而自至者十有五焉。
今凤凰、麒麟不至，嘉禾不生，而蓬蒿、藜莠茂，鸱枭群翔，而欲封禅，无乃不可乎？
于是桓公乃止。
是岁，秦穆公纳晋君夷吾。
其后三置晋国之君，平其乱。
穆公立三十九年而卒。
后五十年，周灵王即位。
时诸侯莫朝周，苌弘乃明鬼神事，设射不来，不来者，诸侯之不来朝者也。
依物怪，欲以致诸侯。
诸侯弗从，而周室愈微。
后二世，至敬王时，晋人杀苌弘。
是时，季氏专鲁，旅于泰山，仲尼讥之。
自秦宣公作密畤后二百五十年，而秦灵公于吴阳作上畤，祭黄帝；作下畤，祭炎帝。
后四十八年，周太史儋见秦献公曰： 周始与秦国合而别，别五百载当复合，合七十年而伯王出焉。
儋见后七年，栎阳雨金，献公自以为得金瑞，故作畦畤栎阳，而祀白帝。
后百一十岁，周赧王卒，九鼎入于秦。
或曰，周显王之四十二年，宋太丘社亡，而鼎沦没于泗水彭城下。
自赧王卒后七年，秦庄襄王灭东周，周祀绝。
后二十八年，秦并天下，称皇帝。
秦始皇帝既即位，或曰： 黄帝得土德，黄龙地螾见。
夏得木德，青龙止于郊，草木鬯茂。
殷得金德，银自山溢。
周得火德，有赤乌之符。
今秦变周，水德之时。
昔文公出猎，获黑龙，此其水德之瑞。
于是秦更名河曰 德水 ，以冬十月为年首，色尚黑，度以六为名，音上大吕，事统上法。
即帝位三年，东巡郡县，祠驺峄山，颂功业。
translation: 
So Guan Zhong saw that Duke Huan of Qi could not be persuaded with words, so he took the opportunity to set up obstacles with deeds, saying: In ancient times, the millet on the mill and the grain from the north were used to fill the baskets; and a three-ridged thatch between the Yangtze and Huaihe rivers was used as a straw mat.
The East Sea brings flounder, and the West Sea brings birds.
Then there are the fifteen kinds of mascots that appear unannounced.
Now that the phoenixes and unicorns are not coming, and the valleys are not growing, but the basil and weeds are lush in the fields, and the owl and owls are flying in groups, it is probably not good to plan to seal the bombs, right?
So Qi Huan Gong stopped the idea of ​​granting Zen.
In this year, Duke Mu of Qin accepted Yiwu, the king of Jin.
After that, he appointed Ya Jin as the king three times and put down the civil strife in Jin.
Duke Mu died after reigning for thirty-nine years.
Fifty years later, King Zhou Ling ascended the throne.
At that time, all the princes were not paying homage to the king of Zhou, so Chang Hong boldly launched an activity with ghosts and gods tomorrow, setting up the ceremony of shooting but not coming. Not coming means that the princes do not come to court.
He relied on monsters to attract princes.
The princes did not comply, and the Zhou Dynasty declined even more.
Two generations later, when it was time to honor the king, the people of Jin killed Chang Hong.
At this time, the Ji family was in power in the Lu State and placed gifts on Mount Tai for sacrifice. Zhongni ridiculed this matter.
Two hundred and fifty years after Qin Xuan Gong established the secret era, Qin Linggong established Shangzhi in Wuyang to offer sacrifices to the Yellow Emperor; he established Xizhi to offer sacrifices to the Yan Emperor.
Forty-eight years later, Zhou Taishi met Qin Xiangong and said: The Zhou Dynasty began to unite with Qin, and then separated. After five hundred years of separation, they should reunite. Seventy years after the alliance, the overlord will appear.
Seven years after Taishi Dan met Qin Xiangong, gold fell with the rain in Liangyang. Qin Xiangong thought he had received the auspicious omen of gold, so he built a border in Liangyang to worship the White Emperor.
One hundred and ten years later, King Nan of Zhou died and Jiuding entered the Qin Kingdom.
Some people say that in the 42nd year of King Xian of Zhou Dynasty, after the Daqiu Society of Song Dynasty was destroyed, the tripod sank under the swimming water of Pengcheng.
Seven years after the death of King Nan of Zhou, Duke Zhuang Xiang of Qin destroyed Shu Zhou, and the sacrifices of Zhou Dynasty were discontinued.
Twenty-eight years later, Qin annexed the world and became emperor.
The First Emperor of Qin has ascended the throne. Some people say: The Yellow Emperor obtained the virtue of earth, and yellow dragons and giant earthworms appeared.
In the Xia Dynasty, Mu De was achieved, the green dragon landed in the suburbs, and the vegetation grew extremely lush.
The Yin Dynasty gained gold and virtue, and silver flowed from the mountains.
The Zhou Dynasty gained the virtue of fire, and the auspicious sign of red crow came.
Now the Qin Dynasty has changed the Zhou Dynasty, which is the era of gaining water virtue.
Previously, Duke Wen went out hunting and obtained a black dragon, which was an auspicious sign for Shui De.
So Qin changed the name of the Yellow River to Deshui, and the winter tenth month was the beginning of the year. The color was black, the scale was six, the sound was Da Lu, and the government was law.
After Qin Shihuang had been emperor for three years, he inspected counties in the east, offered sacrifices to Jufeng Mountain, and praised his achievements.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
于是从齐、鲁之儒生博士七十人，至于泰山下。
诸儒生或议曰： 古者封禅为蒲车，恶伤山之土、石、草、木；扫地而祠，席用苴秸，言其易遵也。
始皇闻此议各乖异，难施用，由此黜儒生。
而遂除车道，上自泰山阳。
至颠，立石颂德，明其得封也。
从阴道上，禅于梁父。
其礼颇采泰祝之祀雍上帝所用，而封臧皆秘之，世不得而记。
始皇之上泰山，中阪遇暴风雨，休于大树下。
诸儒既黜，不得与封禅，闻始皇遇风雨，即讥之。
于是始皇遂东游海上，行礼祠名山川及八神，求仙人羡门之属。
八神将自古而有之，或曰太公以来作之。
齐所以为齐，以天齐也。
其祀绝，莫知起时。
八神：一曰天主，祠天齐。
天齐渊水，居临菑南郊山下下者。
二曰地主，祠泰山梁父。
盖天好阴，祠之必于高山之下畤，命曰 畤 ；地贵阳，祭之必于泽中圜丘云。
三曰兵主，祠蚩尤。
蚩尤在东平陆监乡，齐之西竟也。
四曰阴主，祠三山；五曰阴主，祠之罘山；六曰月主，祠莱山：皆在齐北，并勃海。
七曰日主，祠盛山。
盛山斗入海，最居齐东北阳，以迎日出云。
八曰四时主，祠琅邪。
琅邪在齐东北，盖岁之所始。
皆各用牢具祠，而巫祝所损益，圭、币杂异焉。
自齐威、宣时，驺子之徒论著终始五德之运，及秦帝而齐人奏之，故始皇采用之。
而宋毋忌、正伯侨、元尚、羡门高最后，皆燕人，为方仙道，形解销化，依于鬼神之事。
驺衍以阴阳主运显于诸侯，而燕、齐海上之方士传其术不能通，然则怪迂阿谀苟合之徒自此兴，不可胜数也。
translation: 
So he followed seventy Confucian scholars and doctors from Qi and Lu, and arrived at the foot of Mount Tai.
Some Confucian scholars suggested: In ancient times, Feng Zang used cattails to wrap the wheels for fear of damaging the earth, stone, grass and trees on the mountain; he cleaned the ground for sacrifices, and used grass and straw to make mats, which meant that these were easy to comply with.
Qin Shihuang heard that these discussions were different and difficult to implement, so he no longer used Confucian scholars.
So we cleared the driveway and went up to the south of Mount Tai.
When he reached the top of the mountain, he erected a stone tablet to praise his merits and show the reasons why he should be enshrined in Zen.
Go down the mountain from the north road and go to the Liangfu sacrifice site.
Many of the rituals used were those used by Taizhu in offering sacrifices to heaven in Yongcheng. These were kept secret and could not be obtained and recorded by the world.
When Qin Shihuang was climbing Mount Tai, he encountered a storm halfway up the hillside and rested under a big tree.
The Confucian scholars were no longer in use and could not participate in the feudal war. When they heard that Qin Shihuang was in trouble, they laughed at him.
So Qin Shihuang cruised eastward on the sea, paying homage to famous mountains, rivers and eight gods, and visiting immortals and nobles.
It has been around since Yagami Liangzhan; some people say it was created since Taigong.
The state of Qi is called Qi because it is in the middle of the sky.
Its sacrifices ceased, and it is unknown when it started.
The eight gods, one called God, are sacrificed to Tianqi.
There is a deep pool of water in Tianqi, at the bottom of the mountain in the southern suburb of Linmiao.
The second is called Landlord, and he is worshiped by Liang Fu in Mount Tai.
Probably the God of Heaven likes yin, so the sacrifice must be at the bottom of the mountain, called Zhi; the God of Earth likes yang, so the sacrifice must be on a small island in the water.
The third one is called the military commander and sacrifices are made to Chi You.
Chiyou was in Lujian Township, Shuping, which was the western border of Qi State.
The fourth is called the Lord of Yin, and is worshiped at Sanshan; the fifth is called the Lord of Yang, and is worshiped at Zhifu Mountain; the sixth is called the Lord of Moon, and is worshiped at Laishan: They are all located in the north of Qidi, near the Bohai Sea.
Seventh, he called the Lord of the Sun and offered sacrifices to Shengshan.
Shengshan plunges steeply into the sea and is located in the northeasternmost part of the land to welcome the rising sun.
Eight is called the Lord of the Four Seasons and is worshiped in Langxie.
Langxie is located in the northeast of Qidi, where the star of the year begins.
They all prepare sacrifices with their own sacrifices, and the shamans add or subtract them, so the kui coins are different.
During the reigns of King Wei and King Xuan of Qi, liars discussed and wrote about the continuous operation of the Five Virtues. When Qin became emperor, the people of Qi reported them, so Qin Shihuang adopted them.
However, Song Wuji, Zheng Boqiao, Yuan Shang, Xianmen Gao and later were all natives of Yan. They played magic tricks to dissolve the body and rely on ghosts and gods.
Kuiyan became famous among the princes with his theory that yin and yang govern fortune, but the alchemists of Yan and Qihai told him that his method was not feasible. It was so absurd and strange that people who flattered and sought cooperation arose from then on, and it is impossible to count them one by one.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
自威、宣、燕昭使人入海求蓬莱、方丈、瀛州。
此三神山者，其传在勃海中，去人不远。
盖尝有到者，诸仙人及不死之药皆在焉。
其物、禽兽尽白，而黄金、银为宫阙。
未至，望之如云；及到，三神山反居水下，水临之。
患且至，则风辄引船而去，终莫能至云。
世主莫不甘心焉。
及秦始皇至海上，则方士争言之。
始皇如恐弗及，使人赍童男女入海求之。
船交海中，皆以风为解，曰未能至，望见之焉。
其明年，始皇复游海上，至琅邪，过恒山，从上党归。
后三年，游碣石，考入海方士，从上郡归。
后五年，始皇南至湘山，遂登会稽，并海上，几遇海中三神山之奇药。
不得，还到沙丘崩。
二世元年，东巡碣石，并海，南历泰山，至会稽，皆礼祠之，而胡亥刻勒始皇所立石书旁，以章始皇之功德。
其秋，诸侯叛秦。
三年而二世弑死。
始皇封禅之后十二年而秦亡。
诸儒生疾秦皇焚《诗》、《书》，诛灭文学，百姓怨其法，天下叛之，皆说曰： 始皇上泰山，为风雨所击，不得封禅云。
此岂所谓无其德而用其事者邪？
昔三代之居，皆河、洛之间，故嵩高为中岳，而四岳各如其方，四渎咸在山东。
至秦称帝，都咸阳，则五岳、四渎皆并在东方。
自五帝以至秦，迭兴迭衰，名山、大川或在诸侯，或在天子，其礼损益世殊，不可胜记。
及秦并天下，令祠官所常奉天地、名山、大川、鬼神可得而序也。
于是自崤以东，名山五，大川祠二。曰太室。
太室，嵩高也。
恒山、泰山、会稽、湘山。
水曰，曰淮。
translation: 
King Wei, King Xuan, and King Yan Zhao sent people to the sea to search for Penglai, Fangzhang, and Yingzhou.
These three sacred mountains are said to be in the Bohai Sea, not far from inhabited areas.
It is said that someone has arrived, and the immortals and the elixir of immortality are all there.
All the things and animals in it were white, and the palaces were built with gold and silver.
Before arriving, it looked like clouds from a distance; after arriving, the three sacred mountains were located under the water, and you could go up from the water to the mountains.
The gods were afraid that people were about to go, so they blew the boat away with the wind, and they never reached it.
There is no monarch in the world who does not admire him.
When Qin Shihuang went to the sea, the alchemists were vying to tell him these things.
Qin Shihuang was afraid that he would not be able to reach it, so he sent people to search for him at sea with boys and girls.
When the ship reaches the sea, it always excuses itself as being unable to reach them due to the wind, saying that it cannot reach them and can only see them.
The next year, Qin Shi Huang returned to the sea and arrived at Langye. He passed through Mount Heng and returned via Shangdang.
Three years later, he visited Jieshi Mountain, inspected the alchemists on the sea, and returned from Shangjun.
Five years later, Qin Shihuang went south to Xiangshan Mountain and climbed Mount Kuaiji, near the sea, hoping to encounter the strange medicines on the three sacred mountains in the sea.
Unable to do so, he died in a sand dune on the way back.
In the first year of the Second Qin Dynasty, he patrolled eastward to Jieshi, which was by the sea. He and Li passed through Mount Tai and arrived at Kuaiji. They all performed rituals and offered sacrifices, and made carvings next to the stone inscriptions erected by Emperor Qin Ye to commend Qin Shi Huang's merits.
In the autumn of the Qian year, the princes rebelled against the Qin Dynasty.
Three years later, Zhuan II was killed.
Twelve years after Qin Shihuang granted Zen status, the Qin Dynasty fell.
Everyone needs to hate the Qin Dynasty for burning "Poems" and "Books" and destroying classics. The people resented its criminal laws and the world rebelled. They all said: When Qin Shihuang went to Mount Tai, he was hit by wind and rain and could not be granted Zen status.
Isn't this what I said without virtue and why I want to be punished?
In the past three generations, they all lived between the Yellow River and Luoshui River, so Mount Song was the central mountain, while the four mountains were all in their respective directions, and the four mountains were all east of Mount Laoshan.
When the King of Qin proclaimed himself emperor and established Xianyang as his capital, all the five mountains and four mountains were in the east.
From the Five Emperors to the First Emperor of Qin, the rise and fall alternated, and the famous mountains and rivers sometimes went out of the territory of the princes, and sometimes they were in the place where the emperor was. The increase or decrease in etiquette varied from generation to generation, and it is impossible to record them all.
When Qin annexed the world, he ordered sacrificial officials to record the heaven, earth, famous mountains, small ghosts and gods that were often sacrificed in an orderly manner.
So from Mount Wei to the east, they offered sacrifices to five famous mountains and two large rivers. Called Taishi.
Taishi is Songshan.
Hengshan, Taishan, Huixi, Xiangshan.
The river is called Boishui, Huai River.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
春以脯酒为岁祷，因泮冻；秋涸冻；冬塞祷祠。
其牲用牛犊各一，牢具、圭、币各异。
自华以西，名山七，名川四。
曰华山、薄山。
薄山者，襄山也。
岳山、岐山、吴山、鸿冢、渎山。
渎山，蜀之岷山也。
水曰河，祠临晋；沔，祠汉中；湫渊，祠朝那；江水，祠蜀。
亦春秋泮涸祷塞如东方山川。而牲亦牛犊，牢具、圭、币各异。
而四大冢鸿、岐、吴、岳，皆有尝禾。
陈宝节来祠，其河加有尝醪。
此皆雍州之域，近天子都，故加车一乘，駠驹四。
霸、产、丰、涝、泾、渭、长水，皆不在大山、川数，以近咸阳，尽得比山川祠，而无诸加。
汧、洛二渊，鸣泽，蒲山、岳壻山之属，为小山川，亦皆祷塞、泮、涸祠，礼不必同。
而雍有日、月、参、辰、南北斗、荧惑、太白、岁星、填星、辰星、二十八宿、风伯、雨师、四海、九臣、十四臣、诸布、诸严、诸逐之属，百有余庙。
西亦有数十祠。
于湖有周天子祠。
于下邽有天神。
丰、镐有昭明、天子辟池。
于杜、毫有五杜主之祠、寿星祠；而雍、菅庙祠亦有杜主。
杜主，故周之右将军，其在秦中最小鬼之神者也。
各以岁时奉祠。
唯雍四畤上帝为尊；其光景动人民，唯陈宝。
故雍四畤，春以为岁祠祷，因泮冻，秋涸冻，冬赛祠，五月尝驹，及四中之月月祠，陈宝节来一祠。
春、夏用骍，秋、冬用。
畤驹四匹，木寓龙一驷，木寓车马一驷，各如其帝色。
黄犊羔各四，圭、币各有数，皆生瘗埋，无俎豆之具。
三年一郊。
translation: 
In the spring, dried meat and wine are used as sacrifices for the horse for one year. In the spring, they thaw; in the autumn, they freeze; in the winter, they reward the gods with limited blessings.
The sacrifices include one cow and one calf, and the spare jade and coins are different.
From Huashan to the west, there are seven famous mountains and four famous rivers.
They are Huashan and Boshan respectively.
Boshan is Xiangshan.
Yueshan, Qishan, Wushan, Hongzhong, Dushan.
Du Mountain is about Min Mountain in Shu.
The famous rivers are the Yellow River, the altar is in Linjin; Mianshui, the altar is in Zhuangmo; Qiuyuan, the altar is in Chaona; Jiangshui, the altar is in Shu.
The thawing and freezing of the Spring and Autumn period are the same as offering sacrifices to the mountains and rivers in the east. The sacrifices are also different types of calves and spare Gui coins.
The four major tombs are Hong, Qi, Wu and Yue, all of which have the ritual of tasting new grains.
Chen Maishen enjoys sacrifices according to festivals, and the sacrifice to the Yellow River also includes the ritual of offering turbid wine to the gods.
These were all in the Yongzhou area, close to the emperor's capital, so they added a chariot and four ponies covered in red with black neck hair.
Bashui, Chanshui, Fengshui, Laoshui, Jingshui, Weishui and Changshui are not included in the ranks of Dachuan. Because they are close to Xianyang, they all have to be worshiped according to the mountains and rivers, without anything extra.
Yanshui, Luoshui, Mingze, Pushan, Yuexushan and other small mountains and rivers also have to compete with gods to bring blessings, but the etiquette does not necessarily have to be the same.
Moreover, there are more than a hundred temples in Yongdi such as Yue, Yue, Shen, Chen, Beidou, Mars, Venus, Jupiter, Saturn, Chenxing, Twenty-Eight Constellations, Feng Bo, Yu Shi, Si Hai, Jiu Chen, Fourteen Chen, Zhu Bu, Zhu Yan, and Zhu Zhu.
There are also dozens of temples in the west.
There is the Temple of Emperor Zhou in the lake.
There are gods in Xia Bang.
In Feng and Dy, Zhaoming and Emperor opened the pond.
There are five temples and longevity temples dedicated to Lord Du in Du and Bo; there are also temples dedicated to Lord Du in Yong and Jian.
Lord Du was the right general of the Zhou Dynasty in the past. He was the smallest ghost in Qin.
All gods are worshiped on time throughout the year.
Only Yongdi was the most noble in offering sacrifices to heaven with the four seasons. Only Chen Bao shocked the people with the brilliance of the gods when they came.
In the past, the four sides of Yongdi prayed for the success of the year, so they thawed, froze in autumn, raced the gods in winter, tasted horses in May, and Zhongyue in the four seasons, just like Chen Bao Shen enjoyed a sacrifice according to festivals.
Pure red horses are used in spring and summer, and horses are used in autumn and winter.
Each stage uses four horses, four puppet dragons, and a puppet cart driven by four horses, each of which has the same color as the emperor it is enshrined.
There are four yellow calves and four lambs each, and each has a fixed amount of Gui coins. The animals are buried in the ground, and there is no need for ritual utensils such as Zuodou.
Suburban festivals are held once every three years.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
秦以十月为岁首，故常以十月上宿郊见，通权火，拜于咸阳之旁，而衣上白，其用如经祠云。
西畤、畦畤，祠如其故，上不亲往。
诸此祠皆太祝党主，以岁时奉祠之。
至如它名山川诸神及八神之属，上过则祠，去则已。
郡县远方祠者，民各自奉祠，不领于天子之祝官。
祝官有秘祝，即有灾祥，辄祝祠移过于下。
汉兴，高祖初起，杀大蛇，有物曰： 蛇，白帝子，而杀者赤帝子。
及高祖祷丰枌榆社，徇沛，为沛公，则祀蚩尤，衅鼓旗。
遂以十月至霸上，立为汉王。
因以十月为年首，色上赤。
二年，东击项籍而还入关，问： 故秦时上帝祠何帝也？
对曰： 四帝，有白、青、黄、赤帝之祠。
高祖曰： 吾闻天有五帝，而四，何也？
莫知其说。
于是高祖曰： 吾知之矣，乃待我而具五也。
乃立黑帝祠，名曰北畤。
有司进祠，上不亲往。
悉召故秦祀官，复置太祝、太宰，如其故仪礼。
因令县为公社。
下诏曰： 吾甚重祠而敬祭。
今上帝之祭及山川诸神当祠者，各以其时礼祠之如故。
后四岁，天下已定，诏御史令丰治枌榆社，常以时，春以羊、彘祠之。
令祝立蚩尤之祠于长安。长安置祠祀官、女巫。
其梁巫祠天、地、天社、天水、房中、堂上之属；晋巫祠五帝、东君、云中君、巫社、巫祠、族人炊之属；秦巫祠杜主、巫保、族累之属；荆巫祠堂下、巫先、司命、施糜之属；九天巫祠九天：皆以岁时祠宫中。
其河巫祠河于临晋，而南山巫祠南山、秦中。
秦中者，二世皇帝也。
各有时日。
其后二岁，或言曰周兴而邑立后稷之祠，至今血食天下。
于是高祖制诏御史： 其令天下立灵星祠，常以岁时祠以牛。
高祖十年春，有司清令县常以春二月及腊祠稷以羊、彘，民里社各自裁以祠。制曰： 可。
translation: 
The Qin Dynasty regarded October as the beginning of the year, so they often fasted and offered sacrifices in the suburbs in October, lit beacon fires, and bowed down next to Xianyang. White clothes were the most precious thing, and the things used for sacrifices were the same as usual.
In the Western and Qi seasons, sacrifices were performed as before, and the emperor did not go there in person.
All such sacrifices are presided over by Tai Zhu Changlai, and sacrifices are performed according to the four seasons of the year.
As for the gods of other famous mountains and rivers, as well as the Eight Gods, the emperor would offer sacrifices when he passed by, and stop after he left.
Sacrifices in remote areas of counties and counties were performed by the people individually and were not managed by the Emperor Zhuguan.
Zhu Guan has a secret blessing. If there is a disaster, Zhu Guan will transfer the fault to the lower level.
When the Han Dynasty was established, when Emperor Gaozu had just risen, he killed a big snake. Some ghosts and gods said: The snake is the son of the White Emperor, and the person who killed the snake is the son of the Red Emperor.
When Emperor Gaozu went to Fengdi to pray in an elm society, he conquered Peixian County and became the Duke of Pei. Then he offered sacrifices to Chiyou and sacrificed his blood to the drums and flags of the army.
So he arrived at Bashang in the tenth month and was made King of Han.
Therefore, October is the beginning of the year, and the color of clothing is red.
The next year, he went east to attack Xiang Ji, returned to Guanzhong, and asked: What emperor did Qin sacrifice to heaven in the past?
Answer: The four emperors include the white, green, yellow and red emperors’ temples.
Emperor Gaozu said: I heard that there are five emperors in heaven, but there are only four. What is the reason for this?
No one knows why.
So Gaozu said: I understand, you will have five when I come.
So the Black Emperor Temple was built, called Beishi.
The relevant officials went to the temple, but Emperor Gaozu did not go there in person.
All the sacrificial officials of the Qin Dynasty were summoned and the Taizhu and Dazai palaces were re-established with the same etiquette as before.
So the county was ordered to set up communes.
The edict was issued: I attach great importance to temples and respect sacrifices.
Now the sacrifices to heaven and to the gods of mountains and rivers should be performed at their own time and with the same etiquette as before.
Four years later, when the world was at peace, he issued an edict to the imperial censor, ordering Fengdi to renovate the Yusheshe, and offer sacrifices to it regularly. In the spring, sheep and pigs were sacrificed to it.
Order Zhu Guan to build Chi You's temple in Chang'an. Chang'an set up temple officials and witches.
Among them, the shamans in the Liang region offered sacrifices to heaven, earth, Tianshe, Tianshui, Fangzhong, and Tangshang; the witches in the Jin region offered sacrifices to the Five Emperors, Dongjun, Yunzhongjun, witch societies, witch temples, clan cooking, etc.; the witches in the Qin region offered sacrifices to Du Zhu, Wu Bao, and Zongzong; the witches in the Jing region offered sacrifices to Tangxia, Wu Xian, Siming, Shi Mi, and the like; and the witches of the Nine Heavens worshiped the Nine Heavens: all were sacrificed in the palace according to the four seasons of the year.
Among them, the Yellow River shamans worshiped the Yellow River in Linjin, and the Nanshan shamans worshiped Nanshan and Qinzhong.
Qin Zhong was the second emperor.
Each of these gods has certain festivals.
Two years later, some people say that after the establishment of the Zhou Dynasty, Houji ancestral temples were built in various cities, and now animals are killed and their blood is used as sacrifices throughout the world.
So Emperor Gaozu issued an edict to the imperial censor: He ordered the world to build Lingxing Temple and sacrifice cattle on time every year.
In the spring of the 10th year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, relevant officials asked for instructions and ordered all counties to sacrifice sheep and pigs to Ji every spring in February and the twelfth lunar month. Where people gathered, they built shrines as appropriate to offer sacrifices. The critic replied: Yes.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
文帝即位十三年，下诏曰： 秘祝之官移过于下，朕甚弗取，其除之。
始，名山、大川在诸侯，诸侯祝各自奉祠，天子官不领。
及齐、淮南国废，令太祝尽以岁时致礼如故。
明年，以岁比登，诏有司增雍五畤路车各一乘，驾被具；西畤、畦畤寓车各一乘，寓马四匹，驾被具；河、湫、汉水，玉加各二；及诸祀皆广坛场，圭、币、俎豆以差加之。
鲁人公孙臣上书曰： 始秦得水德，及汉受之，推终始传，则汉当土德，土德之应黄龙见。
宜改正朔，服色上黄。
时丞相张苍好律历，以为汉乃水德之时，河决金堤，其符也。
年始冬十月，色外黑内赤，与德相应。
公孙臣言非是，罢之。
明年，黄龙见成纪。
文帝召公孙臣，拜为博士，与诸生申明土德，草改历、服色事。
其夏，下诏曰： 有异物之神见于成纪，毋害于民，岁以有年。
朕几郊祀上帝诸神，礼官议，毋讳以朕劳。
有司皆曰： 古者天子夏亲郊祀上帝于郊，故曰郊。
于是，夏四月文帝始幸雍郊见五畤，祠衣皆上赤。
赵人新垣平以望气见上，言 长安东北有神气，成五采，若人冠冕焉。
或曰东北，神明之舍；西方，神明之墓也。
天瑞下，宜立祠上帝，以合符应。
于是作渭阳五帝庙，同宇，帝一殿，面五门，各如其帝色。
祠所用及仪亦如雍五畤。
明年夏四月，文帝亲拜霸渭之会，以郊见渭阳五帝。
五帝庙临渭，其北穿薄池沟水。
权火举而祠，若光辉然属天焉。
于是贵平至上大夫，赐累千金。
而使博士诸生刺《六经》中作《王制》，谋议巡狩封禅事。
文帝出长门，若见五人于道北，遂因其直立五帝坛，祠以五牢。
translation: 
Thirteen years after Emperor Wen ascended the throne, he issued an edict saying: The Secret Minister pushed the fault to the bottom. I feel that this is very undesirable and I abolish it.
At the beginning, the famous mountains and rivers were in the territory of the princes, and the princes and their officials offered sacrifices, but the emperor's officials did not care.
When the feudal states of Qi and Huainan were abolished, Taizhu was ordered to offer sacrifices all year round as before.
In the second year, due to the bumper harvest every year, the relevant officials were ordered to add one chariot each to the five counties of Yongdi, with all the ornaments on the carriages and horses; one puppet carriage each in Xizhi and Qizhi, four puppet horses, all the ornaments on the carriages and horses; two more pieces of Guiyu each for the Yellow River, Qiuquan, Hanshui; each altar was enlarged, and the Gui coins and beans were increased according to grade.
Gongsunchen, a native of the Lu State, wrote a memorial saying: The Qin State originally had the virtue of water, but now the Han Dynasty has gained the world of the Qin Dynasty. According to the law of the beginning and end of the five elements, the Han Dynasty should have the virtue of earth, and the symbol of superior virtue is the emergence of the yellow dragon.
It should be changed to the first day of the first lunar month, and the color of clothing should be yellow.
At that time, the Prime Minister Zhang Cang was fond of rhythm and calculation, and believed that the Han Dynasty was a time of water virtue, and the Yellow River bursting at the Jindi was its symbol.
It was the tenth month of winter, and his complexion was dark on the outside and red on the inside, which matched the emperor's virtue.
What Gongsun Chen says is wrong, don't listen to him.
In the second year, Huanglong appeared in Chengji.
Emperor Wen summoned Gongsun Chen and worshiped him as a doctor. He explained the virtues of the country with the Confucian scholars and drafted a plan to change the clothes, colors and other matters.
In the summer of this year, the emperor issued an edict saying: Strange things appeared in Chengji, which did not harm the people, but brought good harvests every year.
I hope to go to the countryside to worship the gods in heaven. The ceremony officials will discuss it and tell me frankly.
Relevant officials said: In ancient times, the emperor personally went to the suburbs to worship God in the summer, so it was called Jiao.
So in early summer and April, Emperor Wen went to Wuzhi on the outskirts of Yongdi for the first time to offer sacrifices, and all the sacrificial robes were red.
Xinyuan Ping, a native of Zhao, was able to meet the emperor by observing the luck. He said that there was divine energy in the northeast of Chang'an, which formed five colors, like a human crown.
Some people say that the northeast is the residence of the gods, and the west is where the gods’ tombs are.
When the auspiciousness of heaven comes, a temple should be built to offer sacrifices to heaven in order to comply with it.
So the Temple of the Five Emperors was built in Weiyang, in the same temple. Each emperor had one hall, facing five gates, with the same color as each emperor.
The use and etiquette of sacrificial rituals are the same as those of the Wuzhi of Yongdi.
In the early summer and April of the second year, Emperor Wen personally went to the place where the Bashui River and the Weishui River converged to worship the Five Emperors of Weiyang in the suburbs.
The Five Emperors Temple is close to the Weishui River, and its north side leads to the water of Puchi.
Raise a fire to perform sacrifices, and the light reaches the sky.
The emperor then favored Xinyuan Ping, making him the highest official, and rewarding him as much as a thousand pieces of gold.
He also ordered doctors and Confucian scholars to compile the "King System" based on the essentials of the "Six Classics" and discuss matters such as hunting tours and enshrining Zen.
When Emperor Wen walked out of the long gate, he seemed to see five people on the north side of the road, so he built the Five Emperors Altar where they stood and worshiped them with five prisons.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
其明年，平使人持玉杯，上书阙下献之。
平言上曰： 阙下有宝玉气来者。
已视之，果有献玉杯者，刻曰 人主延寿 。
平又言 臣候日再中 。
居顷之，日却复中。
于是始更以十七年为元年，令天下大酺。
平言曰： 周鼎亡在泗水中，今河决通于泗，臣望东北汾阴直有金宝气，意周鼎其出乎？
兆见不迎则不至。
于是上使使治庙汾阴南，临河，欲祠出周鼎。
人有上书告平所言皆诈也。
下吏治，诛夷平。
是后，文帝怠于改正、服、鬼神之事，而渭阳、长门五帝使祠官领，以时致礼，不往焉。
明年，匈奴数入边，兴兵守御。
后，岁少不登。
数岁而孝景即位。
十六年，祠官各以岁时祠如故，无有所兴。
武帝初即位，尤敬鬼神之祀。
汉兴已六十余岁矣，天下艾安，缙绅之属皆望天子封禅改正度也，而上乡儒术，招贤良。
赵绾、王臧等以文学为公卿，欲议古立明堂城南，以朝诸侯，草巡狩封禅、改历、服色事，未就。
窦太后不好儒术，使人微伺赵绾等奸利事，按绾、臧，绾、臧自杀，诸所兴为皆废。
六年，窦太后崩。
其明年，征文学之士。
明年，上初至雍，郊见五畤。
后常三岁一郊。
是时上求神君，舍之上林中磃氏馆。
神君者，长陵女子，以乳死，见神于先后宛若。
宛若祠之其室，民多往祠。
平原君亦往祠，其后子孙以尊显。
及上即位，则厚礼置祠之内中。
闻其言，不见其人云。
translation: 
The next year, Xinyuanping sent someone to hold the jade cup and write to the court to present this cup.
Niiguanping said to the emperor: There is Binyu's auspiciousness under the palace.
Upon inspection, it turned out that there was indeed someone offering a jade cup with the words "Entering the Lord and Extending Life" engraved on it.
Niiguanping added that I would wait for the sun to return to the center of the sky.
After waiting for a while, the sun indeed returned to the sky.
So the seventeenth year was changed to the first year, so that the whole world celebrated and drank.
Xinyuan Ping said: The Zhou Dynasty's treasure tripod was lost in Si River. Now the water from the Yellow River bursts into Si River. I saw the gold treasure auspiciousness in Fenyin in the northeast. Is it possible that Zhou tripod will appear there?
Auspicious signs will not come unless they are welcomed.
So the emperor sent envoys to build a temple in the south of Fenyin, leaning on the Yellow River, hoping to use sacrifices to summon Zhou Ding.
Someone wrote a letter to accuse Aragaki that everything he said was false.
The emperor asked the officials to examine and execute Xinyuan Ping.
After that, Emperor Wen was no longer interested in correcting matters such as Shuo, clothes, and gods. He handed over the Weiyang and Changgong Five Emperor Temples to the ancestral officials, and offered sacrifices on time, and he no longer went there.
The next year, the Xiongnu invaded the border several times, and Emperor Wen dispatched troops to defend it.
Later, the harvest gradually failed.
A few years later, Emperor Xiaojing came to the throne.
In the sixteenth year, the ancestral officials carried out sacrifices throughout the year as before, and there were no new trees.
When Emperor Wu first came to the throne, he attached great importance to the sacrifice of ghosts and gods.
The Han Dynasty has been established for more than sixty years, and the world is stable. The scholar-bureaucrats all hope that the emperor will hold a ceremony to correct Shuo and measure. Emperor Wu also favors Confucianism and recruits virtuous people.
Tang Wan, Wang Zang and others became public ministers because of their knowledge. They wanted to follow the ancient method of setting up a Mingtang in the south of the city to invite the princes to come to court. They drafted inspections, enshrined Zen, changed the calendar, and served colors, etc., but there was no result yet.
Empress Dowager Dou did not like Confucianism, so she secretly monitored Zhao Wan and others for committing adultery and illegal affairs. She tried Zhao Wan and Wang Zang, and Zhao Wan and Wang Zang committed suicide, and all the things they had done were abolished.
Six years later, Queen Mother Dou passed away.
In the second year, the state recruited knowledgeable people.
In the second year, the emperor went to Yongdi for the first time and worshiped Wuzhi in the suburbs.
From then on, sacrifices were often held every three years.
At this time, the emperor petitioned the gods and placed him in the Nianshi Pavilion in Shanglin.
The spirit is a woman from Changling who died due to dystocia, and the spirit appears in her sister-in-law Wanruo.
Wan Ruo enshrined her in his room, and most of the people went to worship her.
Lord Pingyuan also went to offer sacrifices, and his descendants all became high officials.
When the emperor succeeded to the throne, he would use generous gifts to set up sacrifices in the palace.
Her conversation could be heard, but her figure could not be seen.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
是时，李少君亦以祠灶、谷道、却老方见上，上尊之。
少君者，故深泽侯人，主方。
匿其年及所生长。
常自谓七十，能使物，却老。
其游以方遍诸侯。
无妻子。
人闻其能使物及不死，更馈遗之，常余金钱、衣食。
人皆以为不治产业而饶给，又不知其何所人，愈信，争事之。
少君资好方，善为巧发奇中。
常从武安侯宴，坐中有年九十余老人，少君乃言与其大父游射处，老人为兒从其大父，识其处，一坐尽惊。
少君见上，上有故铜器，问少君。
少君曰： 此器齐桓公十年陈于柏寝。
已而按其刻，果齐桓公器。
一宫尽骇，以为少君神，数百岁人也。
少君言上： 祠灶皆可致物，致物而丹沙可化为黄金，黄金成以为饮食器则益寿，益寿而海中蓬莱仙者乃可见之，以封禅则不死，黄帝是也。
臣尝游海上，见安期生，安期生食臣枣，大如瓜。
安期生仙者，通蓬莱中，合则见人，不合则隐。
于是天子始亲祠灶，遣方十入海求蓬莱安期生之属，而事化丹沙诸药齐为黄金矣。
久之，少君病死。
天子以为化去不死也，使黄、锤史宽舒受其方，而海上燕、齐怪迂之方士多更来言神事矣。
毫人谬忌奏祠泰一方，曰： 天神贵者泰一，泰一佐曰五帝。
古者天子以春秋祭泰一东南郊，日一太牢，七日，为坛开八通之鬼道。
于是，天子令太祝立其祠长安城东南郊，常奉祠如忌方。
其后，人上书言： 古者天子三年一用太牢祠三一：天一、地一、泰一。
translation: 
At this time, Li Shaojun was also able to meet Emperor Wu with the help of sacrifices to the body, the method of fasting grains, and preventing aging. Emperor Wu respected and favored him.
Li Shaojun was a member of the Shenze Hou family and was in charge of prescriptions.
Hide his age and place of origin.
He often claims that he is seventy years old and can control ghosts and gods to prevent aging.
He traveled around various princes with his alchemy skills.
No wife or children.
People heard that he could control ghosts and gods and that he could live forever, so they all rushed to give him gifts, which made him rich in money, food and clothing.
People thought that he would be rich without managing the property, and they didn’t know who he was from, so they trusted him even more, and competed to serve him.
Li Shaojun relies on his unique prescriptions and is good at always fulfilling what he says.
He often had banquets with Marquis Wu'an. There was an old man in his nineties at the banquet. Li Shaojun told him about the place where he and his grandfather played and practiced archery. The old man followed his grandfather when he was a child and knew that place. Everyone in the house was amazed.
Li Shaojun came to see the emperor. The emperor had ancient bronze vessels and asked Li Shaojun.
Li Shaojun said: When Duke Huan of Qi was ten years old, the artifacts were displayed on the cypress bed.
After meeting it for a while, I looked at the inscription and found that it was indeed an artifact from the time of Duke Huan of Qi.
Everyone in the palace was shocked, thinking that Li Shaojun was a god and a man who was hundreds of years old.
Li Shaojun said to the emperor: Temples and stoves can attract ghosts and gods. If they attract ghosts and gods, they can turn the sand into gold. If you use gold to make eating utensils, you can live a long life. If you live long, you can see the Penglai Immortal in the sea. If you hold a Zen ceremony, you will not die. This is the case with the Yellow Emperor.
I once traveled around the sea and saw An Qisheng. An Qisheng gave me a jujube as big as a melon to eat.
An Qisheng is an immortal who travels in Penglai. If you agree with him, he will see people. If you don't agree with him, he will not see people.
So the emperor personally worshiped the ancestral temple, sent alchemists to the sea to visit Penglai Anqisheng and others, and engaged in the work of using medicine to turn Dansha into gold.
After a long time, Li Shaojun died of illness.
The emperor thought that he had turned into a god and survived, so he sent Huang Chui Shi Kuanshu to study his plan. However, the weird and pedantic alchemists from Yanqi and Qi along the coast came one after another to talk about ghosts and gods.
Miu Ji, a native of Bo, submitted a memorial requesting the art of sacrificing Tai Yi, saying: Among the gods, Tai Yi is the most noble, and Tai Yi's assistants are the Five Emperors.
In ancient times, the emperor worshiped Taiyi in the southeastern suburbs in the spring and autumn. He used one Tailao every day for seven days and set up a mandala to open up a Shinto that could reach all directions.
So the emperor ordered Taizhu to build Taiyi's temple in the southeastern suburbs of Chang'an City, and to offer sacrifices regularly according to Miuji's method.
After that, someone wrote a letter saying: In ancient times, the great master used Tailao to worship three gods: Tianyi, Earthly and Taiyi once every three years.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
天子许之，令太祝领祠之于忌泰一坛上，如其方。
后人复有言： 古天子常以春解祠，祠黄帝用一枭、破镜；冥羊用羊祠；马行用一青牡马；泰一、皋山山君用牛；武夷君用干鱼；阴阳使者以一牛。
令祠官领之如其方，而祠泰一于忌泰一坛旁。
后二年，郊雍，获一角兽，若麃然。
有司曰： 陛下肃祗郊祀，上帝报享，锡一角兽，盖麟云。
于是以荐五畤，畤加一牛以燎。
赐诸侯白金，以风符应合于天也。
于是济北王以为天子且封禅，上书献泰山及其旁邑，天子以它县偿之。
常山王有罪，迁，天子封其弟真定，以续先王祀，而以常山为郡。
然后五岳皆在天子之郡。
明年，齐人少翁以方见上。
上有所幸李夫人，夫人卒，少翁以方盖夜致夫人及灶鬼之貌云，天子自帷中望见焉。
乃拜少翁为文成将军，赏赐甚多，以客礼礼之。
文成言： 上即欲与神通，宫室被服非象神，神物不至。
乃作画云气车，及各以胜日驾车辟恶鬼。
又作甘泉宫，中为台室，画天地泰一诸鬼神，而置祭具以致天神。
居岁余，其方益衰，神不至。
乃帛书以饭牛，阳不知，言此牛腹中有奇。
杀视得书，书言甚怪。
天子识其手，问之，果为书。
于是诛文成将军，隐之。
其后又作柏梁、铜柱、承露仙人掌之属矣。
文成死明年，天子病鼎湖甚，巫医无所不致。
游水发根言上郡有巫，病而鬼下之。
上召置祠之甘泉。
及病，使人问神君，神君言曰： 天子无忧病。
病少愈，强与我会甘泉。
于是上病愈，遂起，幸甘泉，病良已。
大赦，置寿宫神君。
translation: 
The emperor agreed to do this and ordered Taizhu to take over the management of the sacrifices at Miuji's Taiyi altar according to the method mentioned in the letter.
Later, someone said: In ancient times, the emperor often used an owl and a broken mirror to sacrifice his sins and pray for blessings in the spring. He used an owl and a broken mirror to sacrifice the Yellow Emperor, a sheep to sacrifice the Ming Yang;
He ordered the sacrificial officials to manage the sacrifices according to the methods mentioned, and to offer sacrifices to Taiyi beside the Taiyi altar in Miuji.
Two years later, during a sacrifice ceremony in Yongjiao, a one-horned beast was hunted, which looked like an elk.
The relevant official said: Your Majesty has held the suburban sacrifice devoutly. In return for your sacrifice, God will give you a one-horned beast, which is regarded as a unicorn.
So they used it to sacrifice five sticks, adding an ox to burn firewood for each stick.
Silver was given to the princes as a sign of harmony with heaven.
So the King of Jibei thought that the emperor was going to enfeoff the land, so he wrote to donate Mount Tai and the surrounding towns, and the emperor compensated him with other counties.
King Changshan committed a crime and was demoted. The emperor named his younger brother King Zhending to continue the sacrifices of the previous king, and made Changshan a county.
From then on, all the Five Sacred Mountains were in the emperor's territory.
The next year, a young man from Qi State met the emperor with his alchemy skills.
The emperor had a beloved Madam Li. After her death, the young man used magic to summon the image of his wife and the Kitchen God at night. The emperor saw them through the bed curtains.
He worshiped the young man as General Wencheng, rewarded him with many things, and entertained him with the courtesy of a guest.
Wen Cheng said: Even if the emperor wants to communicate with the gods, if there are no images of gods on the bedding, clothes, shoes and other items in the palace, the gods will not come.
Just draw some cars with clouds on them, and drive them on auspicious days to drive away evil spirits.
Ganquan Palace was also built, with an altar in the middle depicting the harmony of heaven and earth, various ghosts and gods, and offering sacrificial supplies to attract the gods.
After more than a year, his alchemy became less and less effective, and the gods stopped coming.
He fed the cow with silk books and pretended not to know, saying that there was something foreign in the cow's belly.
When I killed the cow, I got a book. What the book said was very strange.
The emperor recognized his handwriting and interrogated the young man, and found that it was indeed his handwriting.
So he killed General Wencheng and concealed the matter.
After that, white beam platforms, copper pillars, dew-bearing cactus and so on were built.
In the second year after General Wencheng's death, the emperor fell seriously ill in Dinghu, and all the witch doctors were called in.
You Shui Fa Gen said that there was a witch doctor in Shangjun, and the ghosts would get rid of people's illnesses.
The emperor summoned him to hold sacrifices in Ganquan Palace.
When he fell ill, he sent someone to ask the Lord God. The Lord God said: "The Emperor has no illness worth worrying about."
The disease will gradually recover. Please cheer up and meet me at Ganquan Palace.
So the emperor recovered from his illness, got up, and came to Ganquan Palace. He had recovered from his illness.
The emperor granted a general amnesty to the world and installed a divine king in the longevity palace.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
神君最贵者曰太一，其佐曰太禁、司命之属，皆从之，非可得见，闻其言，言与人音等。
时去时来，来则风肃然。
居室帷中，时昼言，然常以夜。
天子祓然后入。
因巫为主人，关饮食，所欲言，行下。
又置寿宫、北宫，张羽旗，设共具，以礼神君。
神君所言，上使受书，其名曰 画法 。
其所言，世俗之所知也，无绝殊者，而天子心独憙。
其事秘，世莫知也。
后三年，有司言元宜以天瑞，不宜以一二数。
一元曰 建 ，二元以长星曰 光 ，今郊得一角兽曰 狩 云。
其明年，天子郊雍，曰： 今上帝朕亲郊，而后土无祀，则礼不答也。
有司与太史令谈、祠官宽舒议： 天地牲角茧粟。
今陛下亲祠后土，后土宜于泽中圜丘为五坛，坛一黄犊牢具，已祠尽瘗。
而从祠衣上黄。
于是天子东幸汾阴。
汾阴男子公孙滂洋等见汾旁有光如绛，上遂立后土祠于汾阴脽上，如宽舒等议。
上亲望拜，如上帝礼。
礼毕，天子遂至荥阳。
还过雒阳，下诏封周后，令奉其祀。
语在《武纪》。
上始巡幸郡县，浸寻于泰山矣。
其春，乐成侯上书言栾大。
栾大，胶东宫人，故尝与文成将军同师，已而为胶东王尚方。
而乐成侯姊为康王后，无子。
王死，它姬子立为王，而康后有淫行，与王不相中，相危以法。
康后闻文成死，而欲自媚于上，乃遣栾大入，因乐成侯求见言方。
天子既诛文成，后悔其方不尽，及见栾大，大说。
大为人长美，言多方略，而敢为大言，处之不疑。
translation: 
The most noble among the divine kings is Tai Yi, and his assistants are Tai Jin, Si Ming, etc., who all follow Tai Yi. You can't see them, you can't hear their voices, they're just like human voices.
When it goes, it comes, and when it comes, the breeze is blowing.
Dwelling in the Veil, sometimes speaking during the day, but often at night.
He waited until the emperor's exorcism ceremony was over before he came in.
Relying on the witch as the master, what you want to say about food and drink is conveyed by the witch.
They also set up the Shougong and Beigong, set up feather flags, and set up offerings to entertain the gods.
The emperor sent someone to record what the god said, which was called "painting method".
What the Lord God said was known to the world, and there was no big difference, but the Emperor was happy in his heart.
This matter is very secret and not known to the world.
Three years later, relevant officials said that the first year should be named according to the auspicious signs from heaven, and should not be ranked according to one yuan or two yuan.
One yuan is called "Jian", two yuan is called "Light" because of the long star, and now the one-cornered beast obtained in the suburban sacrifice is called "Hunter".
After another year, the emperor offered sacrifices to Yong in the suburbs and said: Now I personally come to the suburbs to offer sacrifices, but there is no one from the land to offer sacrifices. This is something that cannot be matched by etiquette.
The relevant officials discussed with Sima Tan, the Taishi Ling, and Kuanshu, the ancestral official: The horns of the animals to be sacrificed to heaven and earth should be as big as cocoons and chestnuts.
Now Your Majesty will personally offer sacrifices to Hou Tu. Hou Tu should build five altars on round hills in the lake to offer sacrifices, and sacrifice a yellow calf to each altar.
After the sacrifice, they were all buried in the soil. Those who followed the sacrifice all wore yellow clothes.
So the emperor went east to Fenyin.
Gongsun Pangyang, a man from Fenyin, and others saw a light like crimson next to Fenyin, so the emperor built a Houtu Temple on the small earth mountain in Fenyin, as suggested by Kuan Shu and others.
The emperor went to see the sacrifice in person, just like the heavenly ceremony.
After the ceremony, the emperor went to Rongyang.
When he came back and passed through Luoyang, he issued an edict to ennoble the descendants of Zhou and ordered them to worship him.
It is recorded in "Wu Ji".
The emperor began to inspect counties and counties, and slowly arrived at Mount Tai.
In the spring of this year, Marquis Lecheng wrote a letter recommending Leda.
Leda is a native of the Micellar Palace. He was once a classmate of General Wencheng, and later he was in charge of preparing medicines for the Micellar King.
The sister of Marquis Lecheng is Queen Kang and has no sons.
After the death of King Kang, other Ji's sons were established as kings. However, Queen Kang engaged in promiscuous behavior and was at odds with the king, threatening each other with national laws.
When Empress Kang heard that Wencheng had died, she wanted to take the initiative to flatter the emperor, so she sent Leda to the palace. She relied on the relationship between Marquis Lecheng and asked to see the emperor, saying that he was proficient in alchemy.
After the emperor executed Wencheng, he regretted knowing that his alchemy skills were not comprehensive. When he saw Mrs. Luan, he was very happy.
Luan Qu was tall and beautiful, spoke with skill, and dared to speak boldly so that no one would suspect him.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
大言曰： 臣常往来海中，见安期、羡门之属，顾以臣为贱，不信臣。
又以为康王诸侯耳，不足与方。
臣数以言康王，康王又不用臣。
臣之师曰： 黄金可成，而河决可塞，不死之药可得，仙人可致也。
然臣恐效文成，则方士皆掩口，恶敢言方哉！
上曰： 文成食马肝死耳。
子诚能修其方，我何爱乎！
大曰： 臣师非有求人，人者求之。
陛下必欲致之，则贵其使者，令为亲属，以客礼侍之，勿卑。使各佩其信印，乃可使通言于神人。
神人尚肯邪不邪，尊其使然后可致也。
于是上使验小方，斗棋，棋自相触击。
是时，上方忧河决而黄金不就，乃拜大为五利将军。
居月余，得四印，得天士将军、地士将军、大通将军印。
制诏御史： 昔禹疏九河，决四渎。
间者，河溢皋陆，堤徭不息。
朕临天下二十有八年，天若遗朕士而大通焉。
《乾》称 飞龙 ， 鸿渐于般 ，朕意庶几与焉。
其以二千户封地士将军大为乐通侯。
赐列侯甲第，童千人。
乘舆斥车马、帷帐、器物以充其家。
又以卫长公主妻之，赍金十万斤，更名其邑曰当利公主。
天子亲如五利之弟，使者存问共给，相属于道。
自大主将、相以下，皆置酒其家，献遗之。
天子又刻玉印曰 天道将军 ，使使衣羽衣，夜立白茅上，五利将军亦衣羽衣，立白茅上受印，以视不臣也。
而佩 天道 者，且为天子道天神也。
于是五利常夜祠其家，欲以下神。
后装治行，东入海求其师云。
大见数月，佩六印，贵震天下，而海上燕、齐之间，莫不搤掔而自言有禁方能神仙矣。
translation: 
Leda said: I often travel to and from the sea and see An Qisheng, Xianmen and the like. They think that my status is low and they don't trust me.
He also thought that King Kang was a prince and was not qualified to give him medicine.
The minister told King Kang several times about the situation, but King Kang refused to reuse the minister.
Chen's master said: Gold can be made, the Yellow River burst can be blocked, the medicine of immortality can be obtained, and gods can be summoned.
But I am afraid that I will follow in the footsteps of Wencheng, so the alchemists will have to shut up and dare not talk about alchemy anymore!
The emperor said: Wencheng died of eating horse liver.
If you can really sort out his alchemy, what should I begrudge you?
Le Da said: My teacher is not asking for help from others, but people are asking for help from him.
Your Majesty must want to recruit him, so you must improve the status of the envoy, make him a close confidant of the emperor, and entertain him with guest gifts. Do not despise him. Only by letting them wear letter seals can they send messages to the gods.
Whether the man of God comes or refuses to come depends on whether the emperor pays attention to the messenger before he can be invited.
So the emperor used a small alchemy to test it and demonstrated the chess game. The chess pieces could hit each other.
At this time, the emperor was worried about the Yellow River bursting and the failure of gold casting, so he worshiped Leda as General of Five Benefits.
After meeting for more than a month, Leda got four official seals; he got the seals of General Tianshi, General Dishi, and General Datong.
The emperor issued an edict to the imperial censor: In the past, Dayu dredged the Jiuhe River and opened the four rivers.
Recently, the Yellow River has flooded the flat land on its shores, and there is no end to the work of building embankments.
I have been on the throne for twenty-eight years. If God sends people to assist me, Leda is one of them.
The hexagram "Qian" is called "Flying Dragon", "Hongjian is in Pan", my meaning is consistent with this.
General Leda was appointed Marquis of Letong with two thousand households of feudal lords.
He was given the mansions of princes and thousands of servants.
Cars, horses, curtains, and utensils were taken from the emperor's carriage to enrich his residence.
He also married Princess Wei Chang to him, gave him one hundred thousand catties of gold, and renamed his town Princess Dangli.
The emperor personally went to General Wuli's residence and sent envoys to greet him and provide him with supplies.
From the emperor's aunt to the generals and ministers, everyone went to his house to hold a banquet and presented his property.
The emperor also carved a jade seal for the general of heaven, and sent an envoy to wear a feather robe and stand on the white grass at night. General Wuli also wore a feather robe and stood on the white grass to receive the jade seal to show that he was not a human subject.
Wearing the "Tiandao" is to guide the gods for the emperor.
So General Wuli often made sacrifices at home at night. Want to attract the gods.
Later, he packed his bags and headed east to the sea to visit his teacher.
Leda appeared for a few months, wearing six official seals, and his dignity shocked the world. However, people between Yan and Qi on the seaside all said without hesitation that they also had the secret recipe to become a god.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
其夏六月，汾阴巫锦为民祠魏脽后土营旁，见地如钩状，掊视得鼎。
鼎大异于众鼎，文镂无款识，怪之，言吏。
吏告河东太守胜，胜以闻。
天子使验问巫得鼎无奸诈，乃以礼祠，迎鼎至甘泉，从上行，荐之。
至中山，晏温，有黄云焉。
有鹿过，上自射之，因之以祭云。
至长安，公卿大夫皆议尊宝鼎。
天子曰： 间者河溢，岁数不登，故巡祭后土，祈为百姓育谷。
今年丰茂未报，鼎曷为出哉？
有司皆言： 闻昔泰帝兴神鼎一，一者一统，天地万物所系象也。
黄帝作宝鼎三，象天、地、人。
禹收九牧之金，铸九鼎，象九州。
皆尝鬺享上帝鬼神。
其空足曰鬲，以象三德，飨承天祜。
夏德衰，鼎迁于殷；殷德衰，鼎迁于周；周德衰，鼎迁于秦；秦德衰，宋之社亡，鼎乃沦伏而不见。
《周颂》曰： 自堂徂基，自羊徂牛，鼐鼎及鼒 ， 不吴不敖，胡考之休。
今鼎至甘泉，以光润龙变，承休无疆。
合兹中山，有黄白云降，盖若兽之为符，路弓乘矢，集获坛下，报祠大亨。
唯受命而帝者心知其意而合德焉。
鼎宜视宗祢庙，臧于帝庭，以合明应。
制曰： 可。
入海求蓬莱者，言蓬莱不远，而不能至者，殆不见其气。
上乃遣望气佐候其气云。
其秋，上雍，且郊。
translation: 
In the summer of June, a Fenyin wizard named Jin was offering sacrifices to the people next to Wei Juhoutu's temple. He saw the shape of a hook on the ground, and when he dug up the soil with his hands, it turned out to be a tripod.
The tripod was very large and different from other tripods. It was engraved with patterns but had no inscription. I felt strange and reported it to the officials.
The officials reported the victory to the governor of Hedong, and the victory was reported to the emperor.
The emperor sent someone to check whether the tripod obtained by the wizard was treacherous, so he held a ceremony and offered sacrifices to the tripod. He welcomed the tripod to Ganquan Palace and followed the emperor to dedicate it to heaven.
When we arrived at Zhongshan, the weather was sunny and warm, with a yellow cloud appearing.
At this time, a deer ran by, and the emperor shot it himself and used it as a sacrifice.
When he arrived in Chang'an, the ministers and officials all talked about respecting the tripod.
The Emperor said: Recently the Yellow River has been flooded, and the harvests have been poor year after year. Therefore, I inspect the counties and counties, offer sacrifices to the ancestors, and pray for a good harvest for the people.
There is no news yet on whether this year's harvest will be good or not. Why did the tripod appear?
Relevant officials said: I heard that Emperor Tai built a divine cauldron in the past, which meant unification and was an image association of all things in the world.
Huangdi made the tripod of three treasures to symbolize heaven, earth and man.
Dayu collected metals from the pastoral guards of Kyushu and cast the Jiuding to symbolize Kyushu.
They all used to cook sacrifices to worship the ghosts and gods in heaven.
Among them, the empty one in the foot is called Ge, which is used to symbolize the three virtues and enjoy the blessing of inheriting heaven.
When the virtues of the Xia Dynasty declined, the tripod was moved to the Yin Dynasty; when the virtues of the Yin Dynasty declined, the tripod was moved to the Zhou Dynasty; when the virtues of the Zhou Dynasty declined, the tripod was moved to the Qin Dynasty; when the virtues of the Qin Dynasty declined, and the society of the Song Dynasty was destroyed, the tripod disappeared and no longer appeared.
"Song of Zhou" says: From the hall to the school, from the sheep to the cattle, whether the big or small tripod is clean, your life will be long.
Now that the cauldron reaches the sweet spring, because the light changes like a dragon, the blessings received will definitely be endless.
The dispatch is consistent with the sign of the arrival of yellow and white clouds in Zhongshan, which is probably like the shape of a beast. As a talisman, as well as a big bow and four arrows, they were all obtained under the altar, which was God's reward for the sacrificial tycoon.
Only those who accept destiny and become emperors know its meaning and are in harmony with heaven.
The tripod should be placed in Zongmi's temple and hidden in the emperor's court to coincide with the obvious auspiciousness.
The emperor went down to Shao and said, "Okay."
People who went to visit Penglai at sea said that Penglai was not far away, but they could not reach it, probably because they could not see the clouds.
The emperor sent people to help them observe the clouds.
In the autumn of this year, the emperor went to Yongcheng to conduct a suburban sacrifice.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
或曰 五帝，泰一之佐也。宜立泰一而上亲郊之 。
上疑未定。
齐人公孙卿曰： 今年得定鼎，其冬辛巳朔旦冬至，与黄帝时等。
卿有札书曰： 黄帝得宝鼎冕候，问于鬼臾区，鬼臾区对曰： 黄帝得宝鼎神策，是岁己酉朔旦冬至，得天之纪，终而复始。
于是黄帝迎日推策，后率二十岁复朔旦冬至，凡二十推，三百八十年，黄帝仙登于天。
卿因所忠欲奏之。
所忠视其书不经，疑其妄言，谢曰： 宝鼎事已决矣。
尚何以为？
卿因嬖人奏之。
上大说，乃召问卿。
对曰： 受此书申公，申公已死。
上曰： 申公何人也？
卿曰： 齐人，与安期生通，受黄帝言，无书，独有此鼎书。
曰 汉兴复当黄帝之时 。
曰 汉之圣者，在高祖之孙且曾孙也。
宝鼎出而与神通，封禅。
封禅七十二王，唯黄帝得上泰山封。 申公曰： 汉帝亦当上封，上封则能仙登天矣。
黄帝万诸侯，而神灵之封君七千。
天下名山八，而三在蛮夷，五在中国。
中国华山、首山、太室山、泰山、东莱山，此五山黄帝之所常游，与神会。
黄帝且战且学仙，患百姓非其首，乃断斩非鬼神者。
百余岁然后得与神通。
黄帝郊雍上帝，宿三月。
鬼臾区号大鸿，死葬雍，故鸿冢是也。
其后黄帝接万灵明庭。
明庭者，甘泉也。
所谓寒门者，谷口也。
黄帝采首山铜，铸鼎于荆山下。
鼎既成，有龙垂胡髯下迎黄帝。
黄帝上骑，群臣后宫从上龙七十余人，龙乃上去。
余小臣不得上，乃悉持龙髯，龙髯拔，堕，堕黄帝之弓。
百姓卬望黄帝既上天，乃抱其弓与龙髯号，故后世因名其处曰鼎湖，其弓曰乌号 。
于是天子曰： 嗟乎！
诚得如黄帝，吾视去妻子如脱屣耳。
拜卿为郎，使东候神于太室。
上遂郊雍，至陇西，登空桐，幸甘泉。
translation: 
Some people say that the Five Emperors were Taiyi's assistants, so they should build a Taiyi temple and the emperor would go to the suburbs to offer sacrifices in person.
The emperor hesitated.
A man named Gongsun Qing from the State of Qi said: This year I got a treasure tripod, and the winter solstice is on the first day of the Xinsi lunar month, just like the time of the Yellow Emperor.
Gongsun Qing has a note saying: The Yellow Emperor got the tripod when he was in Mianhou, and asked Guiyu District. Guiyu District replied: The Yellow Emperor got the treasure tripod, and on the first day of the winter solstice on the first day of the month, he got the chronology from heaven, and the cycle started again and again.
So Huangdi deduced the sun and moon according to his divine strategy, and then repeated the winter solstice on the first day of the lunar month every 20 years, a total of 20 times, 380 times! One year, the Yellow Emperor became an immortal and ascended to heaven.
Gongsun Qing wanted to present his letters to the emperor through Suo Zhong.
Suo Zhong saw that his book was not in line with the classics and suspected that he was talking nonsense, so he declined and said: "The Baoding matter has been settled."
No need to say any more!
Gongsun Qing asked Emperor Wu's favored people to pass the notes on.
Emperor Wu was very happy after seeing it, so he summoned and asked Gongsun Qing.
Gongsun Qing replied: This book was passed down to me by Duke Shen, who is already dead.
The emperor asked: Who is Shen Gong?
Gongsun Qing said: He was from Qi State and had a relationship with An Qisheng. An Qisheng told him what Huangdi said, but he did not write it down, only what was written on the tripod.
It is said that after the founding of the Han Dynasty, it was considered the time of the Yellow Emperor.
It is said that the most sage people in the Han Dynasty are among the grandchildren and great-grandchildren of the great ancestor.
After the tripod appears, it can communicate with the gods, and a sealing ceremony can be held.
There were seventy-two kings in Feng Chan, but only the Yellow Emperor could go to Mount Tai to offer sacrifices. Duke Shen said: The Han emperor should also go to Mount Tai to offer sacrifices. If he goes to Mount Tai to offer sacrifices, he can become an immortal and ascend to heaven.
The Yellow Emperor had tens of thousands of princes, and the number of kings who offered sacrifices to the gods was seven thousand.
There are eight famous mountains in the world, three of which are in the barbarians and five in the Central Plains.
There are Huashan Mountain, Shoushan Mountain, Taishi Mountain, Taishan Mountain and Shulai Mountain in the Central Plains. These five mountains were where the Yellow Emperor often visited to meet the gods.
The Yellow Emperor learned immortal arts while fighting. He was worried that the people would criticize his behavior, so he killed those who criticized ghosts and gods.
After more than a hundred years, I was able to communicate with God.
The Yellow Emperor worshiped God in the suburbs of Yongcheng and lived there for three months.
The area code of Guiyu was Dahong. After his death, he was buried in Yongcheng, in the original Hong Tomb.
After that, Huangdi led all spirits to Mingting.
Mingting is Ganquan Palace.
The so-called humble family is Taniguchi.
Huangdi mined copper from Shoushan Mountain and cast a tripod at the foot of Jingshan Mountain.
After the tripod was cast, a dragon lowered its beard to greet the Yellow Emperor.
After the Yellow Emperor rode on the dragon, more than seventy people from the harem of ministers followed, and the dragon then left upwards.
The rest of the ministers could not go up, so they all held on to the dragon's beard. The dragon's beard was pulled out and they fell down, along with Huangdi's bow.
The people looked up and saw that Huangdi had ascended to heaven, so they held his bow and dragon beard and cried. Therefore, from now on, people called this place Dinghu, and Huangdi's bow was called Wuhao.
So the emperor said: Alas!
If I can really be like the Yellow Emperor, I will treat my wife and son as if I were taking off my shoes.
He worshiped Gongsun Qing as Lang Guan and sent him to Shumian to greet the gods at Taishi Mountain.
The emperor then held sacrifices in the suburbs of Yongcheng, arrived in Longxi, climbed Kongtong Mountain, and visited Ganquan Palace.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
今祠官宽舒等具泰一祠坛，祠坛放毫忌泰一坛，三陔。
五帝坛环居其下，各如其方。
黄帝西南，除八通鬼道。
泰一所用，如雍一畤物，而加醴枣脯之属，杀一牦牛以为俎豆牢具。
而五帝独有俎豆醴进。
其下四方地，为腏，食群神从者及北斗云。
已祠，胙余皆燎之。
其牛色白，白鹿居其中，彘在鹿中，鹿中水而酒之。
祭日以牛，祭月以羊、彘特。
泰一祝宰则衣紫及绣，五帝各如其色，日赤，月白。
十一月辛已朔旦冬至，昒爽，天子始郊拜泰一。
朝朝日，夕夕月，则揖；而见泰一如雍郊礼。
其赞飨曰： 天始以宝鼎神策授皇帝，朔而又朔，终而复始，皇帝敬拜见焉。
而衣上黄。
其祠列火满坛，坛旁亨炊具。
有司云 祠上有光 。
公卿言 皇帝始郊见泰一云阳，有司奉瑄玉嘉牲荐飨，是夜有美光，及昼，黄气上属天。
太史令谈、祠官宽舒等曰： 神灵之休，晁福兆祥，宜因此地光域立泰畤坛以明应。
令太祝领，秋及腊间祠。
三岁天子壹郊见。
其秋，为伐南越，告祷泰一，以牡荆画幡日、月、北斗、登龙，以象太一三星，为泰一鏠，命曰 灵旗 。
为兵祷，则太史奉以指所伐国。
而五利将军使不敢入海，之泰山祠。
上使人随验，实无所见。
五利妄言见其师，其方尽，多不雠。
上乃诛五利。
其冬，公孙卿候神河南，言见仙人迹缑氏城上，有物如雉，往来城上。
translation: 
The ancestral official Kuanshu and others were ordered to prepare Taiyi's ancestral altar. According to Boji's Taiyi altar, the ancestral altar has three floors.
The Five Emperors Altar surrounds the Taiyi Altar, each according to their position.
To the southwest of the Yellow Emperor, eight roads were opened to reach the gods.
The items used in Taiyi sacrifices were the same as those in Yongcheng, except that wine, dates, dried meat, etc. were added, and a yak was killed as a sacrifice.
The Five Emperors specially had ritual vessels to hold the wine as offerings.
The four directions under the altar are places for continuous sacrifices, enshrining the entourage of each god and Beidou.
After the sacrifice is completed, all remaining sacrifices must be burned.
The color of the ox is white, and the white deer is placed in the middle of it, and the pig is in the middle of the deer, and the deer is filled with wine.
Oxen were used as sacrifices to the sun, and three-year-old sheep and pigs were used as sacrifices to the moon.
Taiyi's Zhu and Zai should wear purple and colorful clothes. The colors of the Five Emperors' blessings are the same as those of the Five Emperors. They wear red clothes to worship the sun and white clothes to worship the moon.
On the first day of the winter solstice in November, when the sky was still dark, the emperor began to offer sacrifices to Taiyi in the countryside.
Offering sacrifices in the morning and worshiping the moon in the evening are just a bow; when meeting Taiyi in court, it is the same as offering sacrifices to Yongcheng in the suburbs.
The person who assisted the sacrifice said: God began to bestow the divine treasure of the tripod to the emperor, one after another, and finally again, and the emperor respectfully paid homage to the God of Heaven.
Yellow is the most expensive color for clothes.
During the sacrifice, the altar was filled with fire and cooking utensils were placed beside the altar.
Relevant officials said there was a light shining on the temple.
Gongqing said that when the emperor was worshiping Taiyi in the suburbs of Yunyang, the relevant officials held jade and jade sacrifices. A beautiful light appeared that night, and during the day, yellow air reached the sky.
Taishi Ling Sima Tan, ancestral official Kuanshu and others said: The virtue of the gods brings good fortune to the world, and the Taizhi Altar should be built within the glorious range of the place where it was made to show the auspiciousness.
Taizhu is ordered to be managed, and sacrifices are held in autumn and the twelfth lunar month.
There is a festival in the suburbs of the emperor every three years.
In the autumn of this year, in order to conquer South Vietnam, I prayed at the Taiyi Temple. I used vitex to draw the moon, the Big Dipper, and the rising dragon on the flag to symbolize the three stars of Taiyi.
When praying for an expedition, the Taishi official should hold a spiritual flag and point it at the country to be conquered.
But the envoys of General Wuli did not dare to enter the sea and went to Mount Tai to offer sacrifices.
The emperor sent people to follow him to check, but actually saw nothing.
General Wuli said nonsense that he had seen his teacher and that he had exhausted all his methods and most of them were ineffective.
The emperor then killed General Wuli.
In the winter of this year, Gongsun Qing was in Henan to welcome the immortals. He said that he had seen traces of the immortals on Fengshi City, and there was a pheasant-like thing walking back and forth on the city.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
天子亲幸缑氏视迹，问卿： 得毋效文成、五利乎？
卿曰： 仙者非有求人主，人主者求之。
其道非少宽暇，神不来。
言神事，如迂诞，积以岁，乃可致。
于是郡国各除道，缮治宫馆名山神祠所，以望幸矣。
其春，既灭南越，嬖臣李延年以好音见。
上善之，下公卿议，曰： 民间祠有鼓舞乐，今郊祀而无乐，岂称乎？
公卿曰： 古者祠天地皆有乐，而神祇可得而礼。
或曰： 泰帝使素女鼓五十弦瑟，悲，帝禁不止，故破其瑟为二十五弦。
于是塞南越，祷祠泰一、后土，始用乐舞。
益召歌兒，作二十五弦及空侯瑟自此起。
其来年冬，上议曰： 古者先振兵释旅，然后封禅。
乃遂北巡朔方，勒兵十余万骑，还祭黄帝冢桥山，释兵凉如。
上曰： 吾闻黄帝不死。有冢，何也？
或对曰： 黄帝以仙上天，群臣葬其衣冠。
既至甘泉，为且用事泰山，先类祠泰一。
自得宝鼎，上与公卿诸生议封禅。
封禅用希旷绝，莫如其仪体，而群儒采封禅《尚书》、《周官》、《王制》之望祀射牛事。
齐人丁公年九十余，曰： 封禅者，古不死之名也。
秦皇帝不得上封。
陛下必欲上，稍上即无风雨，遂上封矣。
上于是乃令诸儒习射牛，草封禅仪。
数年，至且行。
天子既闻公孙卿及方士之言，黄帝以上封禅皆致怪物与神通，欲放黄帝以接神人蓬莱，高世比德于九皇，而颇采儒术以文之。
群儒既已不能辩明封禅事，又拘于《诗》、《书》古文而不敢聘。
上为封祠器视群儒，群儒或曰 不与古同 ，徐偃又曰 太常诸生行礼不如鲁善 ，周霸属图封事，于是上黜偃、霸，而尽罢诸儒弗用。
translation: 
The emperor personally went to Fengshi City to see the traces and asked Gongsun Qing: "You can't follow the example of Wencheng and Wuli, right?"
Gongsun Qing said: Immortals do not ask for help from human masters, but enter into the master and ask for help from him.
The rule of the matter is that if you don't act calmly, the gods will not come.
Talking about gods may seem pedantic and weird, but if you accumulate a certain number of years, you can attract gods.
So the prefectures and states built their own roads, renovated palaces, palaces, and temples on famous mountains, in anticipation of the emperor's arrival.
In the spring of this year, South Vietnam had been wiped out, and the favored minister Li Yannian presented a beautiful piece of music.
The emperor was very satisfied with the music and gave it to the ministers for discussion. He said: Folk sacrifices have drum music, but now there is no music in suburban sacrifices. Is this appropriate?
Gongqing said: In ancient times, there was music in both heaven and earth during sacrifices, and only gods could come and enjoy the sacrifices.
Some people say: It is very sad that Emperor Tai asked a plain girl to play the fifty-stringed harp. The emperor could not suppress his emotions, so he divided the harp into twenty-five strings.
So in order to reward the gods for annihilating South Vietnam, they sacrificed Taiyi and Houtu, and began to use music and dance.
The recruitment of singing boys began at this time, and the production of twenty-five-stringed harp and harp instruments began.
The next winter, the emperor discussed with the ministers: In ancient times, the troops were first reorganized and disarmed, and then the feudal army was sealed.
So he went north to inspect Shuofang, commanding an army of more than 100,000 riders, and came back to worship the Yellow Emperor's tomb in Chuangshan Mountain. He disbanded his troops far away.
The emperor said: I heard that Huangdi was not dead, but there was a tomb. Why is this?
Someone replied: The Yellow Emperor became an immortal and ascended to heaven, and his officials buried his clothes.
After arriving at Ganquan Palace, since I was going to Mount Tai soon to pray for Zen, I first offered sacrifices to Mount Tai.
After obtaining the tripod, the emperor discussed with the ministers and other Confucian scholars about the title of Dang.
No one had held the ceremony of Zen for a long time, and they did not know its etiquette and rituals, so the Confucian scholars quoted the story of worshiping and shooting oxen during the ceremony of Zen.
Ding Gong, a native of Qi State, was more than ninety years old. He said: Fengchan is another name for immortality in ancient times.
Qin Shihuang could not go up to worship heaven.
If your Majesty definitely wants to go up, if you go up slowly, there will be no wind and rain, and you can go up to worship the sky.
The emperor then ordered the Confucian scholars to practice the ritual of shooting cattle and draft the etiquette of sealing.
After a few years, it was time to become a Zen monk.
The emperor had heard the words of Gongsun Qing and the alchemist, saying that the Yellow Emperor and above had attracted monsters and gods to interact with each other. He also wanted to imitate the Yellow Emperor and welcome the gods and men of Penglai, and be higher than the world and compare with the virtues of the Nine Emperors, so he widely used Confucianism to beautify it.
Since the group of Confucian scholars could no longer debate clearly the matter of Feng Chan, they were too stuck in ancient texts such as "Poems" and "Books" and did not dare to express it.
The emperor showed the artifacts in the temple to the Confucian scholars. Some of the Confucian scholars said that they were different from those in ancient times. Xu Yan also said that the Confucian scholars in Taichang were not as good as those in Lu State. Zhou Ba summoned the Confucian scholars to discuss the matter of conferring Zen, so the emperor dismissed Xu Yan and Zhou Ba, and dismissed all Confucian scholars from appointment.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
三月，乃东幸缑氏，礼登中岳太室。
从官在山上闻若有言 万岁 云。
问上，上不言；问下，下不言。
乃令祠官加增太室祠，禁毋伐其山木，以山下户几三百封崇高，为之奉邑，独给祠，复无有所与。
上因东上泰山，泰山草木未生，乃令人上石立之泰山颠。
上遂东巡海上，行礼祠八神。
齐人之上疏言神怪、奇方者以万数，乃益发船，令言海中神山者数千人求蓬莱神人。
公孙卿持节常先行候名山，至东莱，言夜见大人，长数丈，就之则不见，见其迹甚大，类禽兽云。
群臣有言见一老父牵狗，言 吾欲见巨公 ，已忽不见。
上既见大迹，未信，及群臣又言老父，则大以为仙人也。
宿留海上，与方士传车，及间使求神仙人以千数。
四月，还至奉高。
上念诸儒及方士言封禅人殊，不经，难施行。
天子至梁父，礼祠地主。
至乙卯，令侍中儒者皮弁缙绅，射牛行事。
封泰山下东方，如郊祠泰一之礼。
封广丈二尺，高九尺，其下则有玉牒书，书秘。
礼毕，天子独与侍中泰车子侯上泰山，亦有封。
其事皆禁。
明日，下阴道。
丙辰，禅泰山下止东北肃然山，如祭后土礼。
天子皆亲拜见，衣上黄而尽用乐焉。
江、淮间一茅三脊为神藉。
五色土益杂封。
纵远方奇兽飞禽及白雉诸物，颇以加祠。
兕牛、象、犀之属不用。
皆至泰山，然后去。
封禅祠，其夜若有光，昼有白云出封中。
translation: 
In March, the emperor went east to Fengshi City and followed the rites to climb Zhongyue Songshan Mountain.
The accompanying officials seemed to hear voices shouting "Long Live Long Live" on the mountain.
Asked the emperor, the emperor did not answer; asked the people below, the people below also did not answer.
So he ordered the ancestral officials to increase the number of sacrifices to Mount Song, and prohibited the felling of trees on the mountain. A total of 300 households at the foot of the mountain were used as people to worship Mount Song, and their residences were used as their enshrined towns to provide sacrifices separately. They were exempted from corvee or taxes. Nothing was added.
The emperor therefore tied the stone to Mount Tai. Before the vegetation on Mount Tai could grow, he ordered people to transport the stone to the top of Mount Tai.
The emperor then patrolled the sea eastward and paid homage to the Eight Gods.
The people of Qi gathered tens of thousands of people who said there were strange and strange ways, so they increased the number of ships and ordered thousands of people who said there were sacred mountains in the sea to visit the Penglai god.
Gongsunqing often walked ahead with the talisman to wait for the emperor in famous mountains. When he arrived at Shulai, he said that he saw a very big man at night, several feet tall.
Some of the ministers said that they saw an old man holding a dog and saying, "I want to see the emperor." After saying this, he suddenly disappeared.
After the emperor saw the big footprints, he still didn't believe it. When the officials told the old man's story again, they were convinced that he was an immortal.
The emperor stayed at sea, gave the alchemist a chariot, and sent more than a thousand people to visit the gods.
In April, the emperor returned to Fenggao.
He felt that the Confucian scholars and alchemists who talked about Feng Chan all said something different, which was unreasonable. Difficult to implement.
The emperor arrived at Father Liang and offered sacrifices to the landlord.
When he arrived at Yimao, he ordered the Confucian scholars in his entourage to wear leather benches on their heads, put huts on their belts, and perform the ritual of shooting oxen.
The ritual of worshiping Taiyi in the east under Mount Tai is the same as that of worshiping Taiyi in the suburbs.
The altar is one foot two feet wide and nine feet high. There is a jade ultimatum buried underneath, the contents of which no one knows.
After the sacrifice ceremony, the emperor climbed Mount Tai alone with his attendants, Cha Zihou, and also performed sacrifices to heaven.
No external communication of this matter is allowed.
The next day, we descended from the north of the mountain.
In Bingchen, a ceremony of sacrificing the earth was held at the Suran Mountain in the northeast at the foot of Mount Tai, which was the same as the ritual of sacrificing the earth after the queen.
The emperor went to worship in person, wearing yellow clothes and using music.
A kind of thatched grass with three ridges between the Jianghuai River and the Huaihe River is used as a straw mat for placing offerings when offering sacrifices to the gods.
And build the altar with five-color soil.
Strange animals, birds, and white pheasants from remote areas were released for additional sacrifices.
Animals such as oxen, rhinoceros and elephants are not required.
After they all arrived at Mount Tai, they left.
The temple that seals the seal seems to have light at night, and white clouds rise from the seal during the day.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
天子从禅还，坐明堂，群臣更上寿。
下诏改元封元年。
语在《武记》。
又曰： 古者天子五载一巡狩，用事泰山，诸侯有朝宿地。
其令诸侯各治邸泰山下。
天子既已封泰山，无风雨，而方士更言蓬莱诸神若将可得，于是上欣然庶几遇之，复东至海上望焉。
奉车子侯暴病，一日死。
上乃遂去，并海上，北至碣石，巡自辽西，历北边至九原。
五月，乃至甘泉，周万八千里云。
其秋，有星孛于东井。
后十余日，有星孛于三能。
望气王朔言： 候独见填星出如瓜，食顷，复入。
有司皆曰： 陛下建汉家封禅，天其报德星云。
其来年冬，郊雍五帝。
还，拜祝祠泰一。
赞飨曰： 德星昭衍，厥维休祥。
寿星乃出，渊耀光明。
信星昭见，皇帝敬拜泰祝之享。
其春，公孙卿言见神人东莱山，若云 欲见天子 。
天子于是幸缑氏城，拜卿为中大夫。
遂至东莱，宿留之数日，毋所见，见大人迹云。
复遣方士求神人、采药以千数。
是岁旱。天子既出亡名，乃祷万里沙，过祠泰山。
还至瓠子，自临塞决河，留二日，湛祠而去。
translation: 
The emperor came back from the altar and sat in the bright hall, while the officials went to celebrate his birthday in turn.
The emperor issued an edict to change the Yuan Dynasty to Yuan Feng.
These are recorded in the "Wu Ji".
The Emperor also said: In ancient times, the Emperor would go on inspection tour once every five years and go to Mount Tai to pay homage. All the princes would have a place to meet and stay.
The princes are now ordered to build their official residences under Mount Tai.
Since the emperor had sealed Mount Tai, there was no wind or rain, and the alchemists said that it seemed that the gods of Penglai could be seen, so the emperor happily hoped to see them, and headed east again to the sea to look at them.
Feng Chezihou fell ill suddenly and died within a day.
The emperor had no choice but to leave and patrol along the seaside to Jieshi in the north, starting from western Liaoning, and from the northern border to Jiuyuan.
In the fifth month, he went to Ganquan Palace and traveled eighteen thousand miles.
In the autumn of this year, a comet appeared in Dongjingsu.
More than ten days later, a comet appeared in Sanneng Constellation.
Wang Shuo, a fortune teller, said: I observed the sky and saw that Saturn came out like a melon, and then went in again.
Relevant officials said: Your Majesty established the feudal etiquette of the Han Dynasty, and God probably rewarded him with the appearance of the De Star.
Next winter, the Five Emperors of Yongcheng will be worshiped in the suburbs.
When I came back, I prayed and worshiped Taiyi.
The tribute said: The virtue star shines brightly, which is very auspicious.
The birthday girl often appears and shines brightly.
The letter star appeared brightly, and the emperor worshiped Taizhu and enjoyed the meal.
In the spring of this year, Gongsun Qing said that he saw a divine man in Shulai Mountain, as if he wanted to see the emperor.
The emperor then went to Fengshi City and worshiped Gongsun Qing as a senior official.
Then he went to Shulai and stayed there for a few days. He saw nothing but the master's footprints.
He also sent thousands of alchemists to visit gods and collect medicines. There was a drought that year.
The emperor went on patrol without any reason, so he prayed at Wanlisha and offered sacrifices to Mount Tai on the way.
Returning to Huzi, he personally went to the breach of the Yellow River to block the water. He stayed there for two days, sank the sacrifices to the bottom of the river to offer sacrifices, and then left.


