Summary uses chunk [0, 2]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
郭躬弟子镇陈宠子忠郭躬字仲孙，颍川阳翟人也。
家世衣冠。父弘，习《小杜律》。太守寇恂以弘为决曹掾，断狱至三十年，用法平。
诸为弘所决者，退无怨情，郡内比之东海于公。
年九十五卒。
躬少传父业，讲授徒众常数百人。
后为郡吏，辟公府。
永平中，奉车都尉窦固出击匈奴，骑都尉秦彭为副。
彭在别屯而辄以法斩人，固奏彭专擅，请诛之。
显宗乃引公卿朝臣平其罪科。
躬以明法律，召入议。
议者皆然固奏，躬独曰： 于法，彭得斩之。
帝曰： 军征，校尉一统于督。
彭既无斧钺，可得专杀人乎？
躬对曰： 一统于督者，谓在部曲也。今彭专军别将，有异于此。
兵事呼吸，不容先关督帅。
且汉制戟即为斧钺，于法不合罪。
帝从躬议。
又有兄弟共杀人者，而罪未有所归。
帝以兄不训弟，故报兄重而减弟死。
translation: 
◆The biography of Guo Gong, named Zhongsun, was born in Yangzhai, Yingchuan. The family has been officials for generations.
His father, Guo Hong, studied "Xiao Du Lv" and the prefect Kou Xun used Guo Hong to make judgments on Cao Cao. He stayed in prison for thirty years and his methods were fair.
In all cases judged by Guo Hong, there is no resentment when he retreats. The county will compare Hong to Donghai Yugong.
Guo Hong died at the age of ninety-five.
Guo Gong inherited his father's business when he was young and taught hundreds of disciples.
Later he became a county official and was called into the government.
During the Yongping period, Dou Gu, the captain of Fengche, sent troops to fight against the Huns, and Qin Peng, the captain of cavalry, served as deputy commander.
Qin Peng was stationed elsewhere and often killed people according to the law. Dou Gu reported that Qin Peng had exclusive power and requested that he be killed.
Xianzong then cited officials and ministers to assess Qin Peng's crime.
Because Guo Gong understood the law, he was summoned to the court to participate in the review.
Everyone who discussed it agreed with what Dou Gu said, but Guo Gong said alone: ​​According to the law, Peng should be beheaded.
The emperor said: When the army goes out for battle, the captain is unified under the governor.
Since Peng has no axe, can he have the power to kill people?
Guo Gong replied: "Unifying under the governor is a matter of trilogy." Today's special general Peng Zhuan is a little different from this.
Military affairs are as urgent as human breathing, and the commander is not allowed to be notified in advance.
Moreover, under the system of the Han Dynasty, Zhuoge was the same as Wu, and he was not considered guilty legally.
The emperor listened to Guo Gong's opinion.
There are also brothers who commit murder together, and it is hard to pin the blame on whom.
The emperor believed that the elder brother should not discipline his younger brother, so he reported that the elder brother should be sentenced severely and the younger brother should be commuted to death.

summary:
summary line 0: The biography of Guo Gong, styled Zhongsun, was from Yangzhai, Yingchuan, in a family of officials for generations. His father, Guo Hong, studied "Xiao Du Lv" and served as a judge for Prefect Kou Xun, handling cases for Cao Cao. Guo Hong worked in prison for thirty years with fair methods, and those he judged felt no resentment, earning comparisons to Donghai Yugong. He died at ninety-five. Guo Gong inherited his father's work, teaching hundreds of disciples, then became a county official. During the Yongping period, he was summoned to court to review a case involving Dou Gu and Qin Peng. While others agreed with Dou Gu, Guo Gong argued that Qin Peng should be beheaded according to law, citing military urgency and Han system precedents. The emperor accepted his view. In another case of brothers committing murder, the emperor initially ruled the elder brother be severely sentenced, but Guo Gong advised leniency for a clerk, Sun Zhang, who mistakenly conveyed an imperial edict, distinguishing between intentional homicide and manslaughter. The emperor agreed. Guo Gong became Tingweizheng but was later dismissed for breaking the law. Promoted three times, he became Tingwei in the third year of Yuanhe. He advocated mercy in sentencing, reporting forty-one cases for mitigation, all implemented. In the first year of Zhanghe, he successfully petitioned to extend a pardon to escaped criminals, saving many lives. He died in the sixth year of Yongyuan. His son, Guo Rizhi, also understood law and served as Nanyang prefect.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
若乃推己以议物，舍状以贪情，法家之能庆延于世，盖由此也！
陈宠字昭公，沛国人也。
曾祖父咸，成、哀间以律令为尚书。
平帝时，王莽辅政，多改汉制，咸心非之。
及莽因吕宽事诛不附己者何武、鲍宣等，咸乃叹曰： 《易》称 君子见几而作，不俟终日 ，吾可以逝矣！
即乞骸骨去职。
及莽篡位，召咸以为掌寇大夫，谢病不肯应。
时，三子参、丰、钦皆在位，乃悉令解宫，父子相与归乡里，闭门不出入，犹用汉家祖腊。
人问其故，咸曰： 我先人岂知王氏腊乎？
其后莽复征咸，遂称病笃。于是乃收敛其家律令书文，皆壁藏之。
咸性仁恕，常戒子孙曰： 为人议法，当依于轻，虽有百金之利，慎无与人重比。
建武初，钦子躬为廷尉左监，早卒。
躬生宠，明习家业，少为州郡吏，辟司徒鲍昱府。
translation: 
In the sixth year of Yongyuan, he died in the official government. The middle son, Guo Rizhi, also understood the law. His official position was the prefect of Nanyang, and he was famous in politics.
◆Chen Chong's biography, Chen Chong's courtesy name is Zhaogong, and he was a member of the Pei Kingdom.
My great-grandfather, Chen Xian, served as Minister of Law and Order during the reigns of Emperor Cheng and Emperor Ai.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, Wang Mang assisted the government and made many changes to the Han Dynasty system, which made Chen Xian dissatisfied.
When Wang Mang killed He Wu, Bao Xuan and others who were not attached to him because of Lu Kuan's affairs, Chen Xian sighed: "The Book of Changes" says: "A gentleman acts when the opportunity arises. If I don't wait until the end of the day, I can pass away!"
Immediately asked to resign and left.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, he summoned Chen Xian to serve as the chief bandit officer, but Chen refused to take up the post on the grounds of illness.
At this time, the three sons Shen, Feng, and Qin were all in official positions, so they were all dismissed from their positions. The father and son returned to their hometown together, staying behind closed doors. They still held sacrifices in the twelfth lunar month according to the custom of the Han family.
When people asked him why, Chen Xian said: Do my ancestors know about Wang's wax sacrifice?
Later, Wang Mang summoned Chen Xian and said that he was seriously ill, so he collected all the laws and regulations at home and hid them in the walls.
Chen Xian had a kind and tolerant character, and often warned his descendants: When negotiating for others, you should rely on lightness. Even if you have the benefit of a hundred gold, never compare yourself with others.
In the early years of Jianwu's reign, Chen Qinzi and Chen Gong served as the left prisoner of the Tingwei and died early.
Chen Gong gave birth to Chen Chong, who learned about the family business. When he was young, Chong served as a state and county official and was called to Situ Baoyu's mansion.

summary:
summary line 1: Chen Chong, styled Zhaogong, was from Pei Kingdom. His great-grandfather, Chen Xian, served as Minister of Law under Emperors Cheng and Ai but resigned during Wang Mang's usurpation, hiding legal texts in walls. Chen Chong learned family law, served as a county official, and later worked for Situ Bao Yu, writing seven volumes of "Resignation and Litigation Bi" to handle lawsuits fairly. Promoted three times, he became minister under Emperor Suzong. He advocated leniency, arguing against harsh punishments in a memorial, and the emperor adopted his views, abolishing cruel punishments and fixing over fifty legal items. Chen Chong also debated the timing of executions, supporting winter executions based on classical texts, and the emperor accepted his reasoning. He served as prefect of Taishan and Guanghan, where he appointed good officials, reduced lawsuits, and investigated mysterious cries, burying unburied bones to stop them. He refused to flatter Dou Xian, later becoming Tingwei in the sixth year of Yongyuan. He cleaned up laws, proposing to reduce death sentences to 200 and total punishments to 3,000, but this was not implemented. He served as Sikong and died after three years.

