Chunk 0: 
original: 
郭躬弟子镇陈宠子忠郭躬字仲孙，颍川阳翟人也。
家世衣冠。父弘，习《小杜律》。太守寇恂以弘为决曹掾，断狱至三十年，用法平。
诸为弘所决者，退无怨情，郡内比之东海于公。
年九十五卒。
躬少传父业，讲授徒众常数百人。
后为郡吏，辟公府。
永平中，奉车都尉窦固出击匈奴，骑都尉秦彭为副。
彭在别屯而辄以法斩人，固奏彭专擅，请诛之。
显宗乃引公卿朝臣平其罪科。
躬以明法律，召入议。
议者皆然固奏，躬独曰： 于法，彭得斩之。
帝曰： 军征，校尉一统于督。
彭既无斧钺，可得专杀人乎？
躬对曰： 一统于督者，谓在部曲也。今彭专军别将，有异于此。
兵事呼吸，不容先关督帅。
且汉制戟即为斧钺，于法不合罪。
帝从躬议。
又有兄弟共杀人者，而罪未有所归。
帝以兄不训弟，故报兄重而减弟死。
translation: 
◆The biography of Guo Gong, named Zhongsun, was born in Yangzhai, Yingchuan. The family has been officials for generations.
His father, Guo Hong, studied "Xiao Du Lv" and the prefect Kou Xun used Guo Hong to make judgments on Cao Cao. He stayed in prison for thirty years and his methods were fair.
In all cases judged by Guo Hong, there is no resentment when he retreats. The county will compare Hong to Donghai Yugong.
Guo Hong died at the age of ninety-five.
Guo Gong inherited his father's business when he was young and taught hundreds of disciples.
Later he became a county official and was called into the government.
During the Yongping period, Dou Gu, the captain of Fengche, sent troops to fight against the Huns, and Qin Peng, the captain of cavalry, served as deputy commander.
Qin Peng was stationed elsewhere and often killed people according to the law. Dou Gu reported that Qin Peng had exclusive power and requested that he be killed.
Xianzong then cited officials and ministers to assess Qin Peng's crime.
Because Guo Gong understood the law, he was summoned to the court to participate in the review.
Everyone who discussed it agreed with what Dou Gu said, but Guo Gong said alone: ​​According to the law, Peng should be beheaded.
The emperor said: When the army goes out for battle, the captain is unified under the governor.
Since Peng has no axe, can he have the power to kill people?
Guo Gong replied: "Unifying under the governor is a matter of trilogy." Today's special general Peng Zhuan is a little different from this.
Military affairs are as urgent as human breathing, and the commander is not allowed to be notified in advance.
Moreover, under the system of the Han Dynasty, Zhuoge was the same as Wu, and he was not considered guilty legally.
The emperor listened to Guo Gong's opinion.
There are also brothers who commit murder together, and it is hard to pin the blame on whom.
The emperor believed that the elder brother should not discipline his younger brother, so he reported that the elder brother should be sentenced severely and the younger brother should be commuted to death.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
中常侍孙章宣诏，误言两报重，尚书奏章矫制，罪当腰斩。
帝复召躬问之，躬对 章应罚金 。
帝曰： 章矫诏杀人，何谓罚金？
躬曰： 法令有故、误，章传命之谬，于事为误，误者其文则轻。
帝曰： 章与囚同县，疑其故也。
躬曰：  周道如氏，其直如矢。  君子不逆诈。 君王法天，刑不可以委曲生意。
帝曰： 善。
迁躬廷尉正，坐法免。
后三迁，元和三年，拜为廷尉。
躬家世掌法，务在宽平，及典理官，决狱断刑，多依矜恕，乃条诸重文可从轻者四十一事奏之，事皆施行，著于令，章和元年，赦天下系囚在四月丙子以前减死罪一等，勿笞，诣金城，而文不及亡命未发觉者。
躬上封事曰： 圣恩所以减死罪使戍边者，重人命也。
今死罪亡命无虑万人，又自赦以来，捕得甚众，而诏令不及，皆当重论。
伏惟天恩莫不荡宥，死罪已下并蒙更生，而亡命捕得独不沾泽。
臣以为赦前犯死罪而系在赦后者，可皆勿笞诣金城，以全人命，有益于边。
肃宗善之，即下诏赦焉。
躬奏谳法科，多所生全。
translation: 
The imperial edict was read out by Sun Zhang, who made a mistake and was punished twice. The minister reported that Sun Zhang had falsely conveyed the imperial edict and should be cut in half for his crime.
The emperor called Guo Gong to ask again, and Guo Gong replied: Sun Zhang should be fined.
The emperor said: Sun Zhang falsely issued an imperial edict to kill people, how can he say that he was only fined?
Guo Gong said: In law, there is a distinction between intentional homicide and manslaughter. Sun Zhang's mistake in conveying the order is considered manslaughter, and manslaughter is lighter in terms of regulations.
The emperor said: Sun Zhang lives in the same county as the prisoner, so I suspect he did it on purpose.
Guo Gong said: The road is as flat as a hammer, and as straight as an arrow. A gentleman will not cheat and deceive. The king regards heaven as the law, and punishment should not be compromised.
The emperor said: OK.
He was awarded the title of Tingweizheng, but was later dismissed for breaking the law.
Later, he was promoted three times, and in the third year of Yuanhe, he was promoted to Tingwei.
Guo Gong's family has been in charge of law for generations, and their affairs are in Kuanping. When he was a magistrate, he decided on prisons and sentences, and mostly acted on the principle of mercy. Therefore, he reported to the emperor the forty-one things that meant severe punishment could be mitigated, and everything was implemented according to the law. In the first year of Zhanghe, the prisoners in the world were pardoned before Bingzi in April, and their death penalty was reduced to one level, without being flogged, and they were sent to Jincheng. However, the article did not mention those who escaped unnoticed.
Guo Gong went to Fengshi and said: The reason why the holy grace reduces the death penalty and makes the border guards more important is that human life is the most important thing.
There are probably tens of thousands of people on death row today, and since the pardon, many criminals have been arrested. Even if the edict does not involve them, they should all be punished with serious crimes.
Thinking of God's kindness, all those who were convicted of capital crimes were reborn, but those who were arrested after escaping did not benefit from the kindness.
I think that those who have committed capital crimes before and are imprisoned after the pardon may not be flogged to Jincheng, so as to save lives and benefit the frontier.
Suzong thought it was very good and immediately issued an edict to pardon him.
Guo Gong reported on the legal system, and many people saved their lives.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
若乃推己以议物，舍状以贪情，法家之能庆延于世，盖由此也！
陈宠字昭公，沛国人也。
曾祖父咸，成、哀间以律令为尚书。
平帝时，王莽辅政，多改汉制，咸心非之。
及莽因吕宽事诛不附己者何武、鲍宣等，咸乃叹曰： 《易》称 君子见几而作，不俟终日 ，吾可以逝矣！
即乞骸骨去职。
及莽篡位，召咸以为掌寇大夫，谢病不肯应。
时，三子参、丰、钦皆在位，乃悉令解宫，父子相与归乡里，闭门不出入，犹用汉家祖腊。
人问其故，咸曰： 我先人岂知王氏腊乎？
其后莽复征咸，遂称病笃。于是乃收敛其家律令书文，皆壁藏之。
咸性仁恕，常戒子孙曰： 为人议法，当依于轻，虽有百金之利，慎无与人重比。
建武初，钦子躬为廷尉左监，早卒。
躬生宠，明习家业，少为州郡吏，辟司徒鲍昱府。
translation: 
In the sixth year of Yongyuan, he died in the official government. The middle son, Guo Rizhi, also understood the law. His official position was the prefect of Nanyang, and he was famous in politics.
◆Chen Chong's biography, Chen Chong's courtesy name is Zhaogong, and he was a member of the Pei Kingdom.
My great-grandfather, Chen Xian, served as Minister of Law and Order during the reigns of Emperor Cheng and Emperor Ai.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, Wang Mang assisted the government and made many changes to the Han Dynasty system, which made Chen Xian dissatisfied.
When Wang Mang killed He Wu, Bao Xuan and others who were not attached to him because of Lu Kuan's affairs, Chen Xian sighed: "The Book of Changes" says: "A gentleman acts when the opportunity arises. If I don't wait until the end of the day, I can pass away!"
Immediately asked to resign and left.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, he summoned Chen Xian to serve as the chief bandit officer, but Chen refused to take up the post on the grounds of illness.
At this time, the three sons Shen, Feng, and Qin were all in official positions, so they were all dismissed from their positions. The father and son returned to their hometown together, staying behind closed doors. They still held sacrifices in the twelfth lunar month according to the custom of the Han family.
When people asked him why, Chen Xian said: Do my ancestors know about Wang's wax sacrifice?
Later, Wang Mang summoned Chen Xian and said that he was seriously ill, so he collected all the laws and regulations at home and hid them in the walls.
Chen Xian had a kind and tolerant character, and often warned his descendants: When negotiating for others, you should rely on lightness. Even if you have the benefit of a hundred gold, never compare yourself with others.
In the early years of Jianwu's reign, Chen Qinzi and Chen Gong served as the left prisoner of the Tingwei and died early.
Chen Gong gave birth to Chen Chong, who learned about the family business. When he was young, Chong served as a state and county official and was called to Situ Baoyu's mansion.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
是时，三府掾属专尚交游，以不肯视事为高。
宠常非之，独勤心物务，数为昱陈当世便宜。
昱高其能，转为辞曹，掌天下狱讼。
其所平决，无不厌服众心。
时司徒辞讼，久者数十年，事类溷错，易为轻重，不良吏得生因缘。
宠为昱撰《辞讼比》七卷，决事科条，皆以事类相从。
昱奏上之，其后公府奉以为法。
三迁，肃宗初，为尚书。
是时承永平故事，吏政尚严切，尚书决事率近于重，宠以帝新即位，宜改前世苛俗。
乃上疏曰：臣闻先王之政，常不僭，刑不滥，与其不得已，宁僭不滥。
故唐尧著典， 眚灾肆赦 ；周公作戒， 勿误庶狱 ；伯夷之典， 惟敬五刑，以成三德 。
由此言之，圣贤之政，以刑罚为首。
往者断狱严明，所以威惩奸慝，奸慝既平，必宜济之以宽，陛下即位，率由此义，数诏群僚，弘崇晏晏。
而有司执事，未悉奉承，典刑用法，犹尚深刻。
断狱者急于格酷烈之痛，执宪者烦于诋欺放滥之交，或因公行私，逞纵威福。
夫为政犹张琴瑟，大弦急者小弦绝。
故子贡非臧孙之猛法，而美郑乔之仁政。
《诗》云： 不刚不柔，布政优优。
translation: 
At this time, the three houses were very friendly, and it was considered noble to refuse to do anything.
Chen Chongchang disagreed and worked hard alone, explaining contemporary politics to Bao Yu several times.
Bao Yu was convinced of his ability to favor, so he resigned from Cao Cao and took charge of the world's lawsuits.
His judgment was fair and did not fail to satisfy everyone's wishes.
At that time, Situ's lawsuits were delayed for decades. The matters were complicated and easy to judge, and bad officials had to rely on them to make a difference.
Chen Chong wrote seven volumes of "Resignation and Litigation Bi" for Bao Yu. The rules for dealing with the case were all in accordance with the categories of things.
Bao Yu played this, and later the government took it as an example.
After being promoted three times, in the early years of Emperor Suzong's reign, he became minister.
At this time, the old practices of the Yongping period were inherited. The official administration advocated strictness, and the ministers generally tended to impose heavy sentences in handling cases. Chen Chong believed that the emperor had just ascended the throne and the harsh politics of the previous generation should be changed.
So Shangshu said: I have heard that in the previous king's government, rewards were not excessive and punishments were not excessive. Rather than being forced to do so, I would rather be excessive than excessive.
Therefore, Tang Yao wrote the "Yao Canon", which advocated "forgiveness of disasters". The Duke of Zhou gave a precept, not to miss the rules of Boyi in prison, but to respect the five punishments in order to achieve the three virtues.
From this point of view, the government of sages is centered on punishment.
In the past, prisons were strictly enforced, so bad guys were dealt with harshly. Since bad guys are equal, it is better to be lenient. After His Majesty came to the throne, most of them followed this rule, calling on the officials many times to promote the moderate policy.
However, some officials did not obey everything, and used harsh punishments.
Those who try cases are eager to torture, and those who enforce the law are tired of slandering fraud and abuses. Some even pretend to be public and practice private, and show dominance.
Being in charge of government is like playing the harp. If the big string becomes too fast, the small string will break.
Therefore, Zigong denied Zang Sun's fierce methods and praised Zheng Zhiqiao's benevolent government.
"The Book of Songs" says: Neither hard nor soft, administration is excellent.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
方今圣德充塞，假于上下，宜隆先王之道，荡涤烦苛之法。轻薄楚，以济群生；全广至德，以奉天心。
帝敬纳宠言，每事务于宽厚。
其后遂诏有司，绝钻钻诸惨酷之科，解妖恶之禁，除文致之请谳五十余事，定著于令。
是后人俗和平，屡有嘉瑞。
汉旧事断狱报重，常尽三冬之月，是时帝始改用冬初十月而已。
元和二年，旱，长水校尉贾宗等上言，以为断狱不尽三冬，故阴气微弱，阳气发泄，招致灾旱，事在于此。
帝以其言下公卿议宠奏曰：夫冬至之节，阳气始萌，故十一月有兰、射干、芸、荔之应。
《时令》曰： 诸生荡，安形体。
天以为正，周以为春。
十二月阳气上通，雉鸡乳，地以为正，殷以为春。
十三月阳气已至，天地已交，万物皆出，蛰虫始振，人以为正，夏以为春。
三微成著，以通三统。
周以天元，殷以地元，夏以人元。
若以此时行刑，则殷、周岁首皆当流血，不合人心，不稽天意。
translation: 
Nowadays, holy virtues fill the heaven and earth. We should follow the ways of the ancestors and eliminate the cumbersome methods. Use punishment lightly to benefit the people, promote virtue, and serve the heart of heaven.
The emperor respectfully accepted Chong's words and advocated generosity in everything.
Later, he called on officials to put an end to cruel punishments, lift the ban on evil, exonerate the innocent of his predecessors, and write down more than fifty things in the law and fix them on the law.
From then on, the folk customs were peaceful and good omens appeared frequently.
In the Han Dynasty, it was customary to decide cases and impose the death penalty in the third month of winter. At this time, the emperor changed the date to the first ten months of winter.
In the second year of Yuanhe, there was a drought. Jia Zong, the captain of Changshui School, and others came forward and believed that the prison would not last for three winters, so the yin energy was weak and the yang energy vented, causing the drought. This is the root of the matter.
The emperor handed his words to the ministers for discussion, and Chen Chong reported: During the winter solstice, Yang Qi sprouts, so in November there are orchids, Shegan, Yun, Lychee and other flowers.
"Shi Ling" says: All things are shaken, and the body is settled.
Heaven regarded it as right, and Zhou Dynasty used it as the beginning of the year.
In December, when Yang Qi rises and domestic chickens and pheasants hatch, the earth is considered to be in good health, and it was regarded as the beginning of the year in the Shang Dynasty.
In the twelfth month of the twelfth month, Yang Qi has arrived, heaven and earth have joined together, all things have emerged, and stinging insects have begun to vibrate. People think it is righteous, and the Xia Dynasty regarded it as the beginning of the year.
The three micro-forms are written to connect the three unifications.
Zhou began with heaven, Shang began with earth, and Xia began with humans.
If the execution is carried out at this time, then the capital of Shang and Zhousui should bleed, which is not in line with the people and the will of God.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
《月令》曰： 孟冬之月，趣狱刑，无留罪。
明大刑毕在立冬也。
又： 仲冬之月，身欲宁，事欲静。
若以降威怒，不可谓宁；若以行大刑，不可谓静。
议者咸曰： 旱之所由，咎在改律。
臣以为殷、周断狱不以三微，而化致康平，无有灾害。
自元和以前，皆用三冬，而水旱之异，往往为患。
由此言之，灾异自为它应，不以改律。
秦为虐政，四时行刑，圣汉初兴，改从简易。
萧何草律，季秋论囚，俱避立春之月，而不计天地之正，二王之春，实颇有违。
陛下探幽析微，允执其中，革百载之失，建永年之功，上有迎承之敬，下有奉微之惠，稽《春秋》之文，当《月令》之意，圣功美业，不宜中疑。
书奏，帝纳之，遂不复改。
宠性周密，常称人臣之义，苦不畏慎。
自在枢机，谢遣门人，拒绝知友，惟在公家而已。朝廷器之。
translation: 
"Moon Order" says: Mengdong's moon is like prison and punishment, and there is no crime left.
It shows that the punishment should be completed at the beginning of winter.
"Moon Order" also says: In the midwinter moon, the body wants peace and things want to be quiet.
If one uses force to reduce anger, it cannot be said to be peaceful; if one uses severe punishment, it cannot be said to be tranquility.
Those who discussed it all said: The cause of the drought is due to the change of laws.
I believe that the Shang and Zhou dynasties did not use trivial measures to end the prisons, but turned them into a prosperous and peaceful world without disasters.
Since the Yuanhe period, three winters have been used, and floods and droughts often cause disasters.
From this point of view, disasters are caused by themselves, not because of changes in the law.
The Qin Dynasty was an tyrannical government and carried out executions in all seasons. The Han Dynasty had just emerged and changed to simpler methods.
Xiao He drafted the criminal law and set it in the autumn of the year to avoid the beginning of spring, without considering the righteousness of heaven and earth, and the spring of the king of Yin and Tuesday, which is really against the right path.
Your Majesty explores the secrets and analyzes the details, believes in the right way, eradicates the mistakes of a hundred years, and establishes the great achievements of eternal life. There are teachings of welcome from above, and the benefits of flattery from below. Check the text of "Spring and Autumn", and it is consistent with the meaning of "Yue Ling". There should be no doubt about the holy merits and beautiful deeds.
The emperor accepted the memorial and made no further changes.
Chen Chong has a thoughtful nature and often talks about the meaning of being a minister. He is not afraid of hardship.
Since he was in the Privy Council, he had sent his disciples to his disciples and refused to be close friends. He only stayed in public houses. The court valued him very much.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
皇后弟侍中窦宪，荐真定令张林为尚书，帝以问宠，宠对 林虽有才能，而素行贪浊 ，宪以此深恨宠。
林卒被用，而以臧污抵罪。
及帝崩，宪等秉权，常衔宠，乃白太后，令典丧事，欲因过中之。
黄门侍郎鲍德素敬宠，说宪弟夏阳侯瑰曰： 陈宠奉事先帝，深见纳任，故久留台阁，赏赐有殊。
今不蒙忠能之赏，而计几微之故，诚伤辅政容贷之德。
瑰亦好士，深然之，故得出为太山太守。
后转广汉太守。
西州豪右并兼，吏多奸贪，诛讼日百数。
宠到，显用良吏王涣、镡显等，以为腹心，讼者日减，郡中清肃。
先是，洛县城南，每阴雨，常有哭声闻于府中，积数十年。
宠闻而疑其故，使吏案行。
还言： 世衰乱时，此下多死亡者，而骸骨不得葬，傥在于是？
宠怆然矜叹，即敕县尽收敛葬之。
自是哭声遂绝。
及窦宪为大将军征匈奴，公卿以下及郡国无不遣吏子弟奉献遗者，而宠与中山相汝南张郴、东平相应顺守正不阿。
后和帝闻之，擢宠为大司农，郴太仆，顺左冯翊。
永元六年，宠代郭躬为廷尉。
性仁矜。
translation: 
The queen's younger brother, Dou Xian, recommended Zhen Ding to make Zhang Lin the minister. The emperor asked Chen Chong about this. Chong replied: Although Zhang Lin is talented, his daily behavior is corrupt. Dou Xian deeply hated Chen Chong because of this.
Zhang Lin was finally used, and Zang Xun was used to atone for his crime.
After the emperor's death, Dou Xian and others came to power and often hated Chen Chongxian. So he reported to the Queen Mother and asked Chong to be in charge of the funeral, trying to find fault and slander him.
Bao De, the minister of Huangmen, always respected Chen Chong and persuaded Dou Xian's younger brother Xia Yanghou Dou Dao: "When Chen Chong served the late emperor, he was very trusted, so he stayed in Taige for a long time, and the reward was somewhat special."
Now that he is not rewarded for his loyalty and ability, and cares about his minor mistakes, it will indeed harm the virtue of assisting the government and allowing loans.
Dou was also a good scholar and believed that Chen Chong was right, so Chen Chong got the opportunity to become the prefect of Taishan.
Later he became the prefect of Guanghan.
The wealthy gentry in Xizhou engaged in mergers and acquisitions, many officials were treacherous and corrupt, and hundreds of lawsuits were filed every day.
When Chen Chong took office, he appointed good officials Wang Huan and Tan Xian as his confidants. The number of lawsuits was gradually reduced, and the county was quiet and serious.
In the south of Xunluo County, every time it rains, cries are often heard in the house for decades.
Chen Chong heard about it and suspected that there must be a reason for it, so he sent officials to investigate the case.
The official came back and reported: When the world was in decline, many people died down here, but their bones were not allowed to be buried. Is this the possible reason?
Chen Chong sighed sadly and ordered the county government to collect all the coffins and bury them.
From then on the crying stopped.
Later, when Dou Xian became the general to conquer the Huns, there was no one below the rank of public minister or in the county who did not send officials' children as gifts. However, Chen Chong and Zhongshan Prime Minister Runan Zhang Chen and Dongping accordingly followed the right path and did not flatter.
Later, Emperor He heard about it and promoted Chen Chong to the position of Chief Agriculture Officer, Zhang Chen to the position of Imperial Servant, and Ying Shun to the position of Zuo Fengyi.
In the sixth year of Yongyuan, Chen Chong replaced Guo Gong as a court captain.
Kind and reserved personality.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
及为理官，数议疑狱，常亲自为奏，每附经典，务从宽恕，帝辄从之，济活者甚众。
其深文刻敝，于此少衰。
宠又钩校律令条法，溢于《甫刑》者除之。
曰：臣闻礼经三百，威仪三千，故《甫刑》大辟二百，五刑之属三千。
礼之所去，刑之所取，失礼则入刑，相为表里者也。
今律令死刑六百一十，耐罪千六百九十八，赎罪以下二千六百八十一，溢于《甫刑》者千九百八十九，其四百一十大辟，千五百耐罪，七十九赎罪。
《春秋保乾图》曰： 王者三百年一蠲法。
汉兴以来，三百二年，宪令稍增，科条无限。
又律有三家，其说各异。
宜令三公、廷尉平定律令，应经合义者，可使大辟二百，而耐罪、赎罪二千八百，并为三千，悉删除其余令，与礼相应，以易万人视听，以致刑措之美，传之无穷。
未及施行，会坐诏狱吏与囚交通抵罪。
诏特免刑，拜为尚书。
迁大鸿胪。
宠历二郡三卿，所在有迹，见称当时。
translation: 
Later, he became a judge. He discussed difficult cases many times and often presented memorials in person. Every time he attached a sutra, he asked for forgiveness. The emperor often listened to him and saved many prisoners.
Only at this time did the number of cases with profound stories decrease a lot.
Chen Chong also cleaned up the laws and regulations, and eliminated them out of "Fu Xing".
He also said: I have heard that there are three hundred rites and three thousand majestic rituals, so in the "Fu Xing", the decapitation of the great punishment is two hundred, and the five punishments and the like are three thousand.
Where etiquette goes, punishment takes away. If etiquette is violated, punishment will follow. They are both exterior and interior.
Today's law decrees six hundred and ten death sentences, one thousand six hundred and ninety-eight punishments, and two thousand six hundred and eighty-one atonements. It comes from the one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine in "Fu Xing", of which four hundred and ten are great punishments, one thousand five hundred for one's punishment, and seventy-nine atonements.
"Spring and Autumn Period Baoqian Tu" says: The king will practice his method every three hundred years.
In the three hundred and two years since the rise of the Han Dynasty, the constitution has been slightly increased and the regulations are unlimited.
There are three schools of law, and their explanations are different.
It is necessary to order Sangong and Tingweiping to make decrees that should be consistent with the law, so that the general punishment can be 200, and the punishment and atonement can be 2800, and the total number can be 3000, and all the remaining orders should be deleted, corresponding to the etiquette, so as to change the hearing and hearing of thousands of people, so as to obtain the reputation of not using punishment measures, which can be passed down to endless generations.
There was no time to implement it, so the jailer was ordered to socialize with the prisoners to compensate for the crime.
The imperial court issued an edict to exempt him from punishment and worship him as minister.
Promoted to Dahonglu.
Chen Chong experienced two counties and three ministers, and his deeds were famous at that time.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
十六年，代徐防为司空。
宠虽传法律，而兼通经书，奏议温粹，号为任职相。
在位三年薨。
以太常南阳尹勤代为司空。
translation: 
In the 16th year, he served as Sikong on behalf of Xu Fang.
Although Chen Chong specializes in law, he is also a master of classics. He made a report to Wen Cui and was named Prime Minister.
He died after reigning for three years.
Tai Chang Nanyang Yin Qin replaced Sikong.


