Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝武皇帝者，孝景中子也。母曰王太后。
孝景四年，以皇子为胶东王。
孝景七年，栗太子废为临江王，以胶东王为太子。
孝景十六年崩，太子即位，为孝武皇帝。
孝武皇帝初即位，尤敬鬼神之祀。
元年，汉兴已六十余岁矣，天下乂安，荐绅之属皆望天子封禅改正度也。
而上乡儒术，招贤良。赵绾、王臧等以文学为公卿，欲议古立明堂城南，以朝诸侯。草巡狩封禅改历服色事未就。
会窦太后治黄老言，不好儒术，使人微得赵绾等奸利事，召案绾、臧，绾、臧自杀，诸所兴为者皆废。
后六年，窦太后崩。
其明年，上征文学之士公孙弘等。
明年，上初至雍，郊见五畤。
后常三岁一郊。
是时上求神君，舍之上林中蹄氏观。
神君者，长陵女子，以子死悲哀，故见神于先后宛若。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaowu was the middle son of Emperor Xiaojing, and his mother was the Queen Mother.
In the fourth year of Xiaojing's reign, Emperor Wu was granted the title of King of Jiaodong as a prince.
In the seventh year of Xiaojing's reign, Prince Li was deposed as King Linjiang and King Jiaodong was established as Crown Prince.
Emperor Xiaojing died after reigning for sixteen years, and the prince ascended the throne, becoming Emperor Xiaowu.
When Emperor Xiaowu came to the throne, he paid special attention to worshiping ghosts and gods.
In the first year of Jianyuan, the Han Dynasty had been established for more than sixty years, and the world was peaceful and peaceful. Officials all hoped that the emperor would hold a Zen ceremony and change the new year-end kimono color system.
The emperor also believed in Confucian scholarship and recruited talented people. Zhao Wan, Wang Zang and others were granted the title of minister because of their knowledge. They wanted to imitate ancient times and suggested that the emperor build a Mingtang in the south of the city to clarify politics and religion, and use it as a place for princes to meet the emperor. The plans they drafted for hunting tours, conferring Zen, and reforming the calendar and uniforms have not yet been completed.
Encountering that Empress Dowager Dou liked the teachings of Huangdi and Laozi, but disliked Confucian scholarship, she sent people to secretly observe Zhao Wan and others' illegal profit-seeking deeds, and summoned Zhao Wan and Wang Zang to investigate the case. Zhao Wan and Wang Zang committed suicide, and many of the measures they proposed were abolished.
Six years later, Queen Mother Dou died.
The next year, the emperor recruited Gongsun Hong and others, who were knowledgeable people.
In the second year, the emperor came to Yong County for the first time and held a suburban sacrifice in Wujie.
From then on, the Suburban Festival was often held every three years.
At that time, the emperor invited a divine monarch to enshrine her in the Tishi Temple in Shanglin Garden.
This divine king was actually a woman from Changling who died of grief over the death of her son. After her death, the spirit appeared in her sister-in-law Wanruo.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
宛若祠之其室，民多往祠。
平原君往祠，其后子孙以尊显。
及武帝即位，则厚礼置祠之内中，闻其言，不见其人云。
是时而李少君亦以祠灶、谷道、却老方见上，上尊之。
少君者，故深泽侯入以主方。
匿其年及所生长，常自谓七十，能使物，却老。
其游以方遍诸侯。
无妻子。
人闻其能使物及不死，更馈遗之，常余金钱帛衣食。
人皆以为不治产业而饶给，又不知其何所人，愈信，争事之。
少君资好方，善为巧发奇中。
尝从武安侯饮，坐中有年九十余老人，少君乃言与其大父游射处，老人为儿时从其大父行，识其处，一坐尽惊。
少君见上，上有故铜器，问少君。
translation: 
It was as if he worshiped her in his own home, and later many people went to worship her.
The emperor's maternal grandmother Pingyuan Jun also went to worship the country, and her descendants became prominent officials.
After Emperor Wu came to the throne, he invited her to the palace with generous gifts to worship her in the temple. But I could only hear her voice, but couldn't see her person.
At that time, Li Shaojun came to see the emperor because he knew how to bring good fortune to the ancestral stove, eat grains instead of fire, guide spiritual energy and achieve immortality. The emperor respected him very much.
Li Shaojun was recommended by the late Marquis Shenze to manage the alchemy affairs.
He concealed his true age and place of birth. He often said that he was seventy years old and could drive ghosts and make people immortal.
He traveled everywhere and relied on his alchemy skills to make friends with princes.
He has no wife or children.
People heard that he could drive away ghosts and make people immortal, so they rushed to give him gifts, so he had a lot of money, silk fabrics, clothes and food.
Everyone thought that he was rich without managing the property, and did not know where he was from, so they believed in him even more and rushed to serve him.
Li Shaojun is good at alchemy and is good at guessing hidden things and telling some secrets of the target person.
He once had a banquet with Wu'an Hou Tianfan. There was an old man in his nineties sitting with him. Li Shaojun then said that he and the old man's grandfather visited an archery place. The old man had been with his grandfather when he was a child and recognized the place. This surprised all the guests.
One time, Li Shaojun met the emperor. The emperor had an old copperware hidden in his possession and asked Shaojun.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
少君曰： 此器齐桓公十年陈于柏寝。
已而案其刻，果齐桓公器。
一宫尽骇，以少君为神，数百岁人也。
少君言于上曰： 祠灶则致物，致物而丹沙可化为黄金，黄金成以为饮食器则益寿，益寿而海中蓬莱仙者可见，见之以封禅则不死，黄帝是也。
臣尝游海上，见安期生，食臣枣，大如瓜。
安期生仙者，通蓬莱中，合则见人，不合则隐。
于是天子始亲祠灶，而遣方士入海求蓬莱安期生之属，而事化丹沙诸药齐为黄金矣。
居久之，李少君病死。
天子以为化去不死也，而使黄锤史宽舒受其方。求蓬莱安期生莫能得，而海上燕齐怪迂之方士多相效，更言神事矣。
translation: 
Shaojun said: This bronze vessel was displayed on the cypress bed in the tenth year of Duke Huan of Qi.
Then he looked at the words engraved on the bronze vessel and found that it was indeed from the era of Duke Huan of Qi.
Everyone in the palace was very surprised, thinking that Shaojun was a god and a person who was hundreds of years old.
Shaojun said to the emperor: By worshiping the stove, you can attract the gods and turn the cinnabar into gold. After the gold is refined, it can be used to make eating utensils. Using these utensils can prolong your life. When you live longer, you can see the immortals on Penglai Mountain in the sea. After meeting the immortals, you can hold a Zen ceremony and you can live forever. This is what the Yellow Emperor did.
I once traveled to the sea and met An Qisheng. He brought me dates to eat, which were as big as melons.
An Qisheng is an immortal who can travel to and from Penglai Mountain. He only sees people who are consistent with his Taoism and hides those who are not.
So the emperor personally worshiped the Kitchen God, and sent alchemists to the East China Sea to visit immortals like Penglai Mountain and An Qisheng, and to turn cinnabar and other medicines into gold.
After a long time, Li Shaojun fell ill and died.
The emperor thought that he had transformed and ascended instead of dying, so he asked Kuanshu, an official in Donglai County, to continue to study Shaojun's alchemy. He searched for Penglai Mountain and Anqisheng, but he could not find it. The weird and sophisticated alchemists from Yan and Qi along the coast followed suit and wrote letters one after another about gods.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
亳人薄诱忌奏祠泰一方，曰： 天神贵者泰一，泰一佐曰五帝。
古者天子以春秋祭泰一东南郊，用太牢具，七日，为坛开八通之鬼道。
于是天子令太祝立其祠长安东南郊，常奉祠如忌方。
其后人有上书，言 古者天子三年一用太牢具祠神三一：天一，地一，泰一 。
天子许之，令太祝领祠之忌泰一坛上，如其方。
后人复有上书，言 古者天子常以春秋解祠，祠黄帝用一枭破镜；冥羊用羊；祠马行用一青牡ǔ马；泰一、皋山山君、地长用牛；武夷君用干鱼；阴阳使者以一牛 。
令祠官领之如其方，而祠于忌泰一坛旁。
其后，天子苑有白鹿，以其皮为币，以发瑞应，造白金焉。
其明年，郊雍，获一角兽，若麃然。有司曰： 陛下肃祗郊祀，上帝报享，锡一角兽，盖麟云。
translation: 
Bo Youji, a native of Hao County, reported the method of worshiping Taiyi, saying: The most noble among the gods is Taiyi, and Taiyi's auxiliary gods are the five emperors.
In ancient times, the emperor worshiped the Taiyi God in the southeastern suburbs in spring and autumn. He used Tailao, a complete animal of cattle, sheep, and pigs, to worship for seven days, and set up channels on all sides of the altar to walk on behalf of ghosts and gods.
So the emperor ordered Taizhu to build the kind of ancestral altar he mentioned in the southeastern suburbs of Chang'an, and often worshiped according to the method of Bo Yuji.
Later, someone wrote a letter saying that in ancient times, the emperor used Tailao every three years to worship the three gods: the god of heaven, the god of earth, and the god of Tai.
The emperor agreed and ordered Taizhu to worship in this way on the Taiyi altar built by Miji.
Later, someone wrote a letter saying that in ancient times, the emperor often held sacrifices to eliminate disasters and seek blessings in spring and autumn. An owl and a broken mirror were used to sacrifice the Yellow Emperor;
The emperor ordered the ancestral officials to accept sacrifices according to this method and to offer sacrifices next to the Taiyi altar built by Miu Ji.
Later, the emperor's palace kept a white deer. Some people said that making leather coins from its skin could induce auspiciousness, so platinum coins were minted.
In the second year, the emperor held a suburban sacrifice in Yong County and captured a unicorn that looked like a harpoon. The official in charge said: Your Majesty respectfully held a suburban sacrifice. In return for your sacrifice, God will give you a unicorn. This should be Qilin!


Chunk 4: 
original: 
于是以荐五畤，畤加一牛以燎。
赐诸侯白金，以风符应合于天地。
于是济北王以为天子且封禅，乃上书献泰山及其旁邑。天子受之，更以他县偿之。
常山王有罪，迁，天子封其弟于真定，以续先王祀，而以常山为郡。
然后五岳皆在天子之郡。
其明年，齐人少翁以鬼神方见上。上有所幸王夫人，夫人卒，少翁以方术盖夜致王夫人及灶鬼之貌云，天子自帷中望见焉。
于是乃拜少翁为文成将军，赏赐甚多，以客礼礼之。
文成言曰： 上即欲与神通，宫室被服不象神，神物不至。
乃作画云气车，及各以胜日驾车辟恶鬼。又作甘泉宫，中为台室，画天、地、泰一诸神，而置祭具以致天神。
居岁余，其方益衰，神不至。
乃为帛书以饭牛，详弗知也，言此牛腹中有奇。杀而视之，得书，书言甚怪，天子疑之。有识其手书，问之人，果伪书。于是诛文成将军而隐之。
其后则又作柏梁、铜柱、承露仙人掌之属矣。
translation: 
So he dedicated it to five plots, adding an ox to each plot, and burned them to repay God's gift.
For this reason, white gold was given to the princes to indicate that this auspicious omen should be in line with the will of heaven and earth.
From this, the King of Jibei thought that the emperor was going to hold a ceremony to enshrine the Zen, so he wrote to offer Mount Tai and the surrounding counties. The emperor accepted the offer and gave him other counties as compensation.
King Changshan was deposed because of his guilt and moved to Fangling. The emperor named his younger brother King Zhending to continue the sacrifice to his ancestors and set up Changshan as a county.
From then on, all the five mountains were in the counties directly under the emperor's jurisdiction.
The next year, a young man from the Qi people came to the emperor with the help of alchemy to communicate with ghosts and gods. The emperor's favorite Mrs. Wang died. The young man used the alchemy to summon the appearance of Mrs. Wang and the Kitchen God at night. The emperor saw Mrs. Wang from the curtain.
So he conferred the title of General Wencheng on the young man, rewarded him with many things, and received him with the etiquette of receiving guests.
General Wencheng said: If the emperor wants to communicate with the gods, the palace, bedding and other daily necessities are different from those used by the gods, and the gods will not come.
So they made cars with clouds painted on them, and drove cars of different colors on different days to drive away evil spirits. They also built Ganquan Palace. In the middle of the palace was a stage room with paintings of many gods such as Tianyi, Earthly One, and Taiyi. Sacrificial utensils were placed to attract the gods.
More than a year later, the young man's alchemy became less and less effective, and the god never came.
General Wencheng wrote some words on a piece of silk and let the cow eat it. He pretended that he didn't know anything about it, and told others that there was something strange in the belly of the cow. He killed the cow and looked at it, and got the silk book. The words in the book were very weird.
After that, white beam platforms, copper pillars and dew-bearing cactus were built.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
文成死明年，天子病鼎湖甚，巫医无所不致，不愈。
游水发根乃言曰： 上郡有巫，病而鬼下之。
上召置祠之甘泉。
及病，使人问神君。
神君言曰： 天子毋忧病。病少愈，强与我会甘泉。
于是病愈，遂幸甘泉，病良已。
大赦天下，置寿宫神君。
神君最贵者太一，其佐曰大禁、司命之属，皆从之。
非可得见，闻其音，与人言等。
时去时来，来则风肃然也。
居室帷中，时昼言，然常以夜。
天子祓，然后入。
因巫为主人，关饮食。
所欲者言行下。
又置寿宫、北宫，张羽旗，设供具，以礼神君。
神君所言，上使人受书其言，命之曰 画法 。
其所语，世俗之所知也，毋绝殊者，而天子独喜。
translation: 
In the second year after Wencheng's death, the emperor became seriously ill in Dinghu Palace. The witch doctors used all kinds of prescriptions, but they could not cure his illness.
A man named You Shui Fagen wrote a letter saying: There was a wizard in Shangjun, and the ghosts and spirits possessed him when he was ill.
The emperor summoned him and placed him in Ganquan Palace.
When the wizard gets sick, he sends someone to ask the god.
Shenjun said: The emperor does not need to worry about his illness. When the illness is better, please cheer up and meet me in the sweet spring.
So the emperor's illness improved a lot. He went to Ganquan Palace to offer sacrifices in person, and his illness was completely cured.
The emperor granted pardon to the whole world and placed the divine king in the longevity palace.
The most noble among the gods is Taiyi, and his assistants are Da Jin, Siming, etc., who all follow him.
The appearance of these gods is invisible, but their voices can be heard, just like human voices.
Sometimes I go and sometimes I come, and when I come there is a rustling sound of wind.
The gods lived indoors in tents and sometimes spoke during the day, but often at night.
The emperor held a ceremony to eliminate disasters and evil spirits, and then entered the room.
The emperor regarded the wizard as his master and asked him to take care of the diet of the god.
After the king of gods said what he wanted, he handed it over to the people below for processing.
They also built the Longevity Palace and the North Palace, hung feather flags, furnished utensils for worshiping the gods, and welcomed the gods with noble etiquette.
The emperor ordered someone to record what the god said and named it "Painting".
But what the Lord God said was known to ordinary people, and there was nothing special about it, but the Emperor liked it alone.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
其事秘，世莫知也。
其后三年，有司言元宜以天瑞命，不宜以一二数。
一元曰建元，二元以长星曰元光，三元以郊得一角兽曰元狩云。
其明年冬，天子郊雍，议曰： 今上帝朕亲郊，而后土毋祀，则礼不答也。
有司与太史公、祠官宽舒等议： 天地牲角茧栗。
今陛下亲祀后土，后土宜于泽中圜丘为五坛，坛一黄犊太牢具，已祠尽瘗，而从祠衣上黄。
于是天子遂东，始立后土祠汾阴脽上，如宽舒等议。上亲望拜，如上帝礼。
礼毕，天子遂至荥阳而还。
translation: 
These things are very secret and unknown to the world.
Three years later, the official in charge suggested that the year name should be named with the auspiciousness sent from heaven, instead of counting one or two.
The first year of the era is called Jianyuan, the second year of Jianyuan is called Yuanguang because of the long star flowing in the sky, and the third era is called Yuanshou because of the unicorn captured during the suburban festival.
In the winter of the next year, the emperor went to the outskirts of Yong County to offer sacrifices. He discussed with the ministers and said: Now I personally offer sacrifices to heaven in the outskirts of Yong County, but I have not yet worshiped Hou Tu, the God of Earth. This is inconsistent with etiquette.
The officials in charge discussed with Taishi Ling Sima Tan, ancestral official Kuanshu and others: The horns of the calf used to offer sacrifices to heaven and earth should be as small as silkworm cocoons and chestnuts.
Now your majesty personally offers sacrifices to Hou Tu. Hou Tu should build five altars on the circular high ground in the middle of the lake. Each altar should use a small ox to sacrifice to Dalao. After the sacrifice, all the sacrifices must be buried, and those who accompany the sacrifice must also wear yellow clothes.
So the emperor drove eastward, and in accordance with the method agreed upon by Kuan Shu and others, he erected the Houtu Temple on the high hill of Fenyin. The emperor personally looked at the Houtu and worshiped it, which was the same etiquette as offering sacrifices to heaven.
After the sacrifice, the emperor went to Xingyang and then returned to Chang'an.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
过雒阳，下诏曰： 三代邈绝，远矣难存。其以三十里地封周后为周子南君，以奉先王祀焉。
是岁，天子始巡郡县，侵寻于泰山矣。
其春，乐成侯上书言栾大。
栾大，胶东宫人，故尝与文成将军同师，已而为胶东王尚方。而乐成侯姊为康王后，毋子。
康王死，他姬子立为王。
而康后有淫行，与王不相中，相危以法。
康后闻文成已死，而欲自媚于上，乃遣栾大因乐成侯求见言方。
天子既诛文成，后悔恨其早死，惜其方不尽。
及见栾大，大悦。
大为人长美，言多方略，而敢为大言，处之不疑。
大言曰： 臣尝往来海中，见安期、羡门之属。
顾以为臣贱，不信臣。
又以为康王诸侯耳，不足予方。
臣数言康王，康王又不用臣。
translation: 
When passing through Luoyang, he issued an edict saying: The Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties are far away from now, and it is difficult for their descendants to survive. An area of ​​30 miles is given to the descendants of Zhou as Zhou Zinanjun to worship the ancestors of Zhou.
This year, the emperor began to inspect various counties and counties, and gradually expanded to Mount Tai.
In the spring of this year, Marquis Lecheng wrote a letter recommending Luan Da.
Luan Da was a palace servant of King Liu Ji of Jiaodong. He originally studied under the same master as General Wencheng, and later became an official in charge of King Jiaodong's prescriptions. At that time, Marquis Lecheng's sister was the queen of King Kang and had no son.
After the death of King Kang, the son of another concubine was established as the heir king.
Queen Kang had promiscuous behavior and was at odds with the new king. They used laws to harm each other.
After Kang Hou heard that General Wencheng was dead, he wanted to please the emperor, so he sent Luan Da to rely on his relationship with Marquis Lecheng to see the emperor to discuss alchemy.
Ever since the emperor killed Marquis Wencheng, he regretted letting him die so early because his alchemy skills were not fully passed down.
When he saw Luan Da, the emperor was very happy.
Luan Da is tall and handsome, speaks thoughtfully and strategically, dares to speak boldly, and looks calm.
He said: I once traveled to and from the sea and saw immortals such as An Qisheng and Xianmen.
But they all thought I was of low status and didn't believe me.
He also believed that King Kang was just a prince and was not worthy of being given alchemy.
I have made suggestions to King Kang several times, but King Kang refused to appoint me.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
臣之师曰： 黄金可成，而河决可塞，不死之药可得，仙人可致也。
臣恐效文成，则方士皆掩口，恶敢言方哉！
上曰： 文成食马肝死耳。
子诚能修其方，我何爱乎！
大曰： 臣师非有求人，人者求之。
陛下必欲致之，则贵其使者，令有亲属，以客礼待之，勿卑，使各佩其信印，乃可使通言于神人。
神人尚肯邪不邪。
致尊其使，然后可致也。
于是上使先验小方，斗旗，旗自相触击。
是时上方忧河决，而黄金不就，乃拜大为五利将军。
居月余，得四金印，佩天士将军、地士将军、大通将军、天道将军印。
制诏御史： 昔禹疏九江，决四渎。
间者河溢皋陆，堤繇不息。
朕临天下二十有八年，天若遗朕士而大通焉。
translation: 
My teacher once said: Gold can be made, river banks can be blocked when they break, medicine of immortality can be obtained, and immortals can be summoned.
I'm just afraid of ending up like Wen Cheng. Then all methods will be silent, how dare you talk about alchemy!
The emperor said: Wencheng died of eating horse liver.
If you can really study the magic of the gods, what can I begrudge you?
Luan Da said: My teacher does not ask for help from others, but people ask for help from him.
If your Majesty must invite him to come, you must give the envoy a distinguished status, make him a relative, treat him with the courtesy of a guest, do not look down upon him, and let everyone wear his seal, so that he can communicate with the gods.
There is still a possibility that the man of God is willing to come or not.
Let the messengers be dignified, so that they can invite the gods.
So the emperor asked him to test his little alchemy. He performed a chess fight and let the chess pieces collide with each other.
At that time, the emperor was lucky to have the Yellow River break its banks, and the gold had not yet been refined, so he worshiped Luan Da as General of Five Benefits.
After more than a month, Luan Da obtained four golden seals and wore the seals of General Tianshi, General Dishi, General Datong, and General Tiandao.
The emperor issued an edict to the censor: In the past, Yu dredged Jiujiang and opened the Yangtze River, Yellow River, Huaihe River, and Jishui River.
Recently, the Yellow River has flooded, from the waterside highlands to the vast plains, and the work of building embankments cannot stop.
I have ruled the world for twenty-eight years. If God wants to give me a talented person, it should be someone like Luan Da who can understand God's will.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
《干》称 蜚龙 ， 鸿渐于般 ，意庶几与焉。
其以二千户封地士将军大为乐通侯。
赐列侯甲第，僮千人，乘舆斥车马帷帐器物以充其家。
又以卫长公主妻之，赍金万斤，更名其邑曰当利公主。
天子亲如五利之第，使者存问所给，连属于道。
自大主将相以下，皆置酒其家，献遗之。
于是天子又刻玉印曰 天道将军 ，使使衣羽衣，夜立白茅上，五利将军亦衣羽衣，立白茅上受印，以示弗臣也。
而佩 天道 者，且为天子道天神也。
于是五利常夜祠其家，欲以下神。
神未至而百鬼集矣，然颇能使之。
其后治装行，东入海，求其师云。
大见数月，佩六印，贵振天下，而海上燕齐之间，莫不扼捥而自言有禁方，能神仙矣。
translation: 
The "flying dragon" mentioned in the "Book of Changes Qian Gua" means that the monarch is on the throne; the "Hongjian Yu Ban" means that he gradually reaches rock-like stability.
This meaning is almost similar to me getting five benefits. For this reason, the land of 2,000 households was granted to the local general Luan Da, who was named the Marquis of Letong.
Luan Dajia and others were given a mansion, thousands of servants, and the emperor's chariot, as well as unused chariots and horses, curtains, and utensils, were filled into his house.
He also married his daughter, Princess Wei, to him, gave him thousands of gold, and changed her title to Princess Dangli.
The emperor also personally visited General Wuli's residence. There was an endless stream of messengers sent to express condolences and inquire about what he needed.
Everyone from the emperor's aunt to the generals and ministers entertained him with wine and presented him with gifts at home.
So the emperor carved the jade seal of General Tiandao and sent an envoy to wear feather robes and stand on the white grass at night. General Wuli also wore feather robes and stood on the white grass to accept the jade seal, indicating that he was not a minister.
Therefore, wearing the "Tiandao General" seal means that you will guide the gods for the emperor.
So Wuli often offered sacrifices at home at night, hoping to attract the gods.
The gods have not yet arrived, but hundreds of ghosts have gathered. He is quite capable of driving these gathered ghosts.
After that, he packed up his gear and headed east to the sea to find his master.
It had only been a few months since Luan Da met the emperor that he wore six seals. His noble status and dignity were enough to shock the world, which made the alchemists from Yan and Qi along the coast become excited, saying that he had a secret recipe that could attract gods.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
其夏六月中，汾阴巫锦为民祠魏脽后土营旁，见地如钩状，掊视得鼎。
鼎大异于众鼎，文镂毋款识。怪之，言吏。
吏告河东太守胜，胜以闻。
天子使使验问巫锦得鼎无奸诈，乃以礼祠，迎鼎至甘泉，从行，上荐之。
至中山，晏温，有黄云盖焉。
有麃过，上自射之，因以祭云。
至长安，公卿大夫皆议请尊宝鼎。
天子曰： 间者河溢，岁数不登，故巡祭后土，祈为百姓育谷。
今年丰庑未有报，鼎曷为出哉？
有司皆曰： 闻昔大帝兴神鼎一，一者一统，天地万物所系终也。
黄帝作宝鼎三，象天地人也。
禹收九牧之金，铸九鼎，皆尝鬺烹上帝鬼神。
遭圣则兴，迁于夏商。周德衰，宋之社亡，鼎乃沦伏而不见。
《颂》云： 自堂徂基，自羊徂牛；鼐鼎及鼒，不虞不骜，胡考之休。
translation: 
In mid-June of this summer, there was a wizard named Jin in Fenyin. He was offering sacrifices to the people next to the site of the Houtu Altar of Wei. When he saw a bulge on the ground that looked like a hook, he dug up the ground to look at it and found a tripod.
This tripod was much larger than an ordinary tripod. It was carved with patterns but no words. The wizard found it strange and reported the matter to the officials.
The officials reported this matter to Sheng, the governor of Hedong, and Sheng reported the matter to the emperor.
The emperor sent an envoy to investigate the tripod obtained by the wizard Jin, but found no falsehood and deceit, so he worshiped it according to the etiquette and welcomed the tripod to Ganquan Palace. Hundreds of officials attended, and the emperor prepared to present it to the Emperor of Heaven.
When we arrived at Zhongshan, the weather was sunny and hot, with yellow clouds covering the sky.
At this time, a deer passed by. The emperor shot it himself and used it to sacrifice.
When he returned to Chang'an, the ministers and officials all discussed and asked to respect the tripod.
The Emperor said: The Yellow River has been overflowing recently, and the grain harvest has been poor for several years, so I went on a patrol to various counties and counties to offer sacrifices to the soil and pray for a good harvest for the people.
This year we had a good harvest, but no sacrifices were held to honor the earth gods. Why did the tripod appear?
The officials in charge said: I heard that the emperor Tai made a divine tripod in the past, which means unification, which means that everything in the world will finally be unified.
Huang Di built a total of three tripods, symbolizing heaven, earth and man.
Dayu collected copper from Kyushu and made nine tripods. These tripods were used to cook animals and offer sacrifices to heaven.
The tripod appeared whenever the Holy Lord was encountered. Later, the tripod was moved to the Xia and Shang Dynasties, the virtue of Zhou Dynasty declined, and after the death of Sheji in the Song Dynasty, the tripod was buried and disappeared.
"Song of Zhou" says: Check whether the sacrificial vessels from the hall to the door wall are washed, check whether the sacrifices from sheep to cattle are fat, check whether the big and small cauldrons are clean inside and outside, do not make noises, do not be arrogant, and worship reverently, you can gain fortune and longevity.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
今鼎至甘泉，光润龙变，承休无疆。
合兹中山，有黄白云降盖，若兽为符，路弓乘矢，集获坛下，报祠大飨。
惟受命而帝者心知其意而合德焉。鼎宜见于祖祢，藏于帝廷，以合明应。
制曰： 可。
入海求蓬莱者，言蓬莱不远，而不能至者，殆不见其气。上乃遣望气佐候其气云。
其秋，上幸雍，且郊。
或曰： 五帝，泰一之佐也，宜立泰一而上亲郊之。
上疑未定。
齐人公孙卿曰： 今年得宝鼎，其冬辛巳朔旦冬至，与黄帝时等。
卿有札书曰： 黄帝得宝鼎宛朐，问于鬼臾区。
区对曰： 帝得宝鼎神䇲，是岁己酉朔旦冬至，得天之纪，终而复始。
于是黄帝迎日推䇲，后率二十岁得朔旦冬至，凡二十推，三百八十年。黄帝仙登于天。
translation: 
Now that the cauldron has reached the sweet spring, it is radiant and moist, like a flying dragon changing, and the auspiciousness it can bear will be endless.
This coincides with the yellow and white auspicious clouds that appeared in Zhongshan. The yellow and white clouds above the hood of the car look like animals, which is actually auspicious. Four arrows from the big bow hit the beast, and they all gathered under the altar to display rich sacrifices to thank God for their kindness.
Only the emperor who is appointed to rule the world can know the will of God and do things that are in line with the virtues of God. This tripod should be presented to the ancestors in the ancestral temple and hidden in the court of Emperor Ganquan to meet the obvious auspiciousness.
The emperor issued an edict and said: Yes.
People who went to sea to seek Penglai said that Penglai was not far away, and the reason why they could not reach it was probably because they had never seen the clouds on the fairy mountain, so the emperor sent officials who were good at looking for gas to help observe the appearance of clouds.
In the autumn of this year, the emperor came to Yong County to prepare for a suburban festival.
Some people say that the Five Emperors were just assistants to Taiyi, and a temple to Taiyi should be built, with the emperor personally performing suburban sacrifices.
The emperor hesitated.
Gongsun Qing, a native of Qi, said: I got the tripod this year. The Xinsi day of this winter happens to be the first day of the new moon, which is the same time as the Yellow Emperor got the tripod.
A wooden slip collected by Gongsun Qing says: The Yellow Emperor obtained the tripod in Wanqu and inquired about Guiyu District.
Ou replied: The Yellow Emperor obtained the magic cauldron at the winter solstice on the first morning of the first lunar month in Jixi, and obtained the celestial phenomena to come to the era. It starts and starts again and again.
So the Yellow Emperor calculated the days to come and used calculations to predict the lunar calendar. From then on, the winter solstice occurred on the morning of the first day of the Lunar New Year approximately every twenty years. He made a total of twenty calculations for a total of 380 years, and the Yellow Emperor became an immortal and ascended to heaven.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
卿因所忠欲奏之。所忠视其书不经，疑其妄书，谢曰： 宝鼎事已决矣，尚何以为！
卿因嬖人奏之。上大说，召问卿。
对曰： 受此书申功，申功已死。
上曰： 申功何人也？
卿曰： 申功，齐人也。与安期生通，受黄帝言，无书，独有此鼎书。
曰 汉兴复当黄帝之时。
汉之圣者在高祖之孙且曾孙也。
宝鼎出而与神通，封禅。
封禅七十二王，唯黄帝得上泰山封 。
申功曰： 汉主亦当上封，上封则能仙登天矣。
黄帝时万诸侯，而神灵之封居七千。
天下名山八，而三在蛮夷，五在中国。
中国华山、首山、太室、泰山、东莱，此五山黄帝之所常游，与神会。
黄帝且战且学仙。
translation: 
Gongsun Qing wanted to use his relationship with Zuo Zhong to report to the emperor, but Suo Zhong thought his book was absurd and suspected that he had written it randomly. He declined politely and said: "The matter about Baoding has been settled long ago, so what's the use of writing a letter?"
Gongsun Qing asked the emperor's favorite minister to report it. The emperor was very happy and summoned Gongsun Qing to ask.
Gongsun Qing replied: I got this book from Shen Gong. He is already dead.
The emperor asked: Who is Shen Gong?
Gongsun Qing said: Shen Gong was from Qi, had contacts with An Qisheng, and accepted the teachings of Huangdi. There is no record of this, only this tripod has records.
It says: The rise of the Han Dynasty is also equivalent to the time when the Yellow Emperor won the tripod.
The sage king of the Han Dynasty should be the grandson or great-grandson of the great ancestor.
When the tripod appears, you can interact with gods and men, and you need to hold a Zen ceremony.
In the past, seventy-two kings were granted the title of Zen, but only the Yellow Emperor could go to Mount Tai to grant the title of Zen.
Shen Gong said: The emperor of the Han Dynasty should also go to Mount Tai to pray for Zen. If he goes up to Mount Tai to pray for Zen, he can become an immortal and ascend to heaven.
During the time of the Yellow Emperor, there were ten thousand princes, and seven thousand were granted the title of gods.
There are eight famous mountains in the world, three of which are in barbarian territory and five of which are in China.
The five mountains in the Central Plains are Huashan, Shoushan, Taishi, Taishan and Donglai Mountain. They are all places where the Yellow Emperor often visited and met the gods.
Huang Di fought while learning the Taoism of the gods.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
患百姓非其道，乃断斩非鬼神者。
百余岁然后得与神通。
黄帝郊雍上帝，宿三月。
鬼臾区号大鸿，死葬雍，故鸿冢是也。
其后黄帝接万灵明廷。
明廷者，甘泉也。
所谓寒门者，谷口也。
黄帝采首山铜，铸鼎于荆山下。
鼎既成，有龙垂胡髯下迎黄帝。
黄帝上骑，群臣后宫从上龙七十余人，龙乃上去。
余小臣不得上，乃悉持龙髯，龙髯拔，堕黄帝之弓。
百姓仰望黄帝既上天，乃抱其弓与龙胡髯号。故后世因名其处曰鼎湖，其弓曰乌号。
于是天子曰： 嗟乎！
吾诚得如黄帝，吾视去妻子如脱躧耳。
乃拜卿为郎，东使候神于太室。
上遂郊雍，至陇西，西登空桐，幸甘泉。
translation: 
He was afraid that the people would oppose his way of immortality, so he resolutely killed those who opposed ghosts and gods.
After more than a hundred years of age, you can communicate with the gods.
Huangdi went to the outskirts of Yong County to worship God and stayed there for three months.
Guiyu's area code was Dahong, and he was buried in Yong County after his death, so the Hong family home was his tomb.
Later, the Yellow Emperor welcomed tens of thousands of gods in the Ming court.
Mingting is now Ganquan.
Hanmen is now Taniguchi.
Huangdi mined copper from Shoushan Mountain and cast a tripod at the foot of Jingshan Mountain.
After the tripod was completed, a dragon with hanging beard came down from the sky to greet the Yellow Emperor.
After the Yellow Emperor rode on the dragon, more than 70 people including the ministers and concubines of the harem followed, and the dragon flew into the sky.
The rest of the ministers could not go up, and they all held on to the dragon's beard. The dragon's beard was pulled out, and Huang Di's bow also fell off.
When the people looked up at the Yellow Emperor and ascended to heaven, they held their bows and dragon beards and cried loudly to Tao. Therefore, later generations called that place Dinghu and the bow Wuhao.
So the emperor said: Alas!
If I could be like Huang Di, I would leave my wife as easily as taking off my shoes.
He appointed Gongsun Qing as Lang Guan and sent him east to Taishi Mountain to meet the gods.
The emperor then went to the outskirts of Yongxian County to worship God, arrived in Longxi, then went west to climb Kongtong Mountain, and then returned to Ganquan.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
令祠官宽舒等具泰一祠坛，坛放薄忌泰一坛，坛三垓。
五帝坛环居其下，各如其方，黄帝西南，除八通鬼道。
泰一所用，如雍一畤物，而加醴枣脯之属，杀一牦牛以为俎豆牢具。而五帝独有俎豆醴进。其下四方地，为餟食群神从者及北斗云。
已祠，胙余皆燎之。
其牛色白，鹿居其中，彘在鹿中，水而洎之。
祭日以牛，祭月以羊彘特。
泰一祝宰则衣紫及绣，五帝各如其色，日赤，月白。
十一月辛巳朔旦冬至，昧爽，天子始郊拜泰一。
朝朝日，夕夕月，则揖；而见泰一如雍礼。
其赞飨曰： 天始以宝鼎神䇲授皇帝，朔而又朔，终而复始。皇帝敬拜见焉。
而衣上黄。
其祠列火满坛，坛旁烹炊具。
有司云： 祠上有光焉。
公卿言： 皇帝始郊见泰一云阳，有司奉瑄玉嘉牲荐飨。
是夜有美光，及昼，黄气上属天。
太史公、祠官宽舒等曰： 神灵之休，祐福兆祥，宜因此地光域立泰畤坛以明应。
令太祝领，秋及腊间祠，三岁天子一郊见。
其秋，为伐南越，告祷泰一，以牡荆画幡日月北斗登龙，以象天一三星，为泰一锋，名曰 灵旗 。
为兵祷，则太史奉以指所伐国。
translation: 
The ancestral official Kuan Shu and others were ordered to build the Taiyi ancestral altar. The altar was modeled after the Taiyi altar described by Bo Ji and was divided into three floors.
The altars of the Five Emperors are all arranged under the Taiyi Altar, each according to their respective directions. Huangdi built eight passages for ghosts and gods in the southwest.
The sacrifices used in the Taiyi altar are the same as those in Yongxian County. They also add sweet wine, dates, dried meat and other things, and kill a yak as a sacrifice in the Zu Dou holder. The Five Emperors only used Zu Dou to hold the sacrifices and sweet wine. On the four sides under the Five Emperors altar, continuous sacrifices were made to the gods and Beidou who followed them.
When the sacrifice is over, all the remaining sacrifices are burned.
The cattle used for sacrifice are white. During the sacrifice, deer should be placed in the belly of the cow, and pigs should be placed in the belly of the deer, and then soaked in water.
A cow is used to worship the sun god, and a sheep or a pig is used to worship the moon god.
The priests and officials who worship the Taiyi God wear purple and embroidered clothes. The colors of the official attire for worshiping the Five Emperors must strictly follow the colors of the Five Emperors. They wear red clothes when worshiping the Sun God and white clothes when worshiping the Moon God.
On the morning of the first day of November, the winter solstice, at dawn, the emperor began to worship Taiyi God in the suburbs.
In the morning, people worship the sun god and in the evening, they worship the moon god and perform a hand-bowing ceremony; while worshiping the Taiyi god follows the Yongxian suburb ritual.
The congratulatory message of the sacrifice said: God began to bestow the treasure tripod and the divine strategy to the emperor, month after month, and finally over again, and the emperor respectfully paid homage here.
Ceremonial robes are yellow.
When offering sacrifices to the temple, torches are arranged all over the altar, and cooking utensils are placed next to the altar.
The official in charge said that there was a light appearing on the ancestral altar.
The ministers said that the emperor began to worship Taiyi on the outskirts of Yunyang Palace. The officials in charge held up a six-inch wall and offered fat cattle for the gods to enjoy.
There was a beautiful light that night, and during the day, yellow clouds rose and connected with the sky.
Taishi Gong, ancestral official Kuanshu and others said: The beautiful brilliance displayed by the gods is a good omen of blessing and blessing. The Taiji Altar should be built in this radiant area as an obvious fulfillment of the auspiciousness descended from heaven.
Taizhu was ordered to be in charge of the sacrifices in autumn and the twelfth lunar month. The emperor held a festival in the suburbs every three years.
In the autumn of this year, in order to conquer South Vietnam, they prayed to God Taiyi. They used equinox as the handle of the flag and painted the sun, moon, Beidou and a rising dragon on the long flag, symbolizing the three stars in the sky. It was the leading flag for worshiping God Taiyi, which was called the "Lingqi".
When praying for war, the Taishi held a spiritual flag and pointed it in the direction of the country he wanted to conquer.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
而五利将军使不敢入海，之泰山祠。上使人微随验，实无所见。
五利妄言见其师，其方尽，多不雠。
上乃诛五利。
其冬，公孙卿候神河南，见仙人迹缑氏城上，有物若雉，往来城上。
天子亲幸缑氏城视迹。
问卿： 得毋效文成、五利乎？
卿曰： 仙者非有求人主，人主求之。
其道非少宽假，神不来。
言神事，事如迂诞，积以岁乃可致。
于是郡国各除道，缮治宫观名山神祠所，以望幸矣。
其年，既灭南越，上有嬖臣李延年以好音见。
上善之，下公卿议，曰： 民间祠尚有鼓舞之乐，今郊祠而无乐，岂称乎？
公卿曰： 古者祀天地皆有乐，而神祇可得而礼。
translation: 
Although General Wuli was a messenger, he did not dare to enter the sea to seek immortality. He only went to Mount Tai to offer sacrifices. The emperor sent someone to follow him secretly and found that he had actually seen nothing.
General Wuli lied about meeting his teacher, but in fact his methods have been exhausted and most of them cannot be fulfilled.
The emperor then killed Wu Li.
In the winter of this year, Gongsun Qing was waiting for the gods in Henan. He said that he saw the footprints of immortals on Fengshi City and an animal that looked like a pheasant walking up and down the city.
The emperor personally went to Fengshi City to inspect the footprints.
Ask Gongsun Qing: You won’t imitate Wencheng and Wuli to deceive me, right?
Gongsun Qing said: Immortals do not ask for help from their masters, but the masters ask for help from him.
If the way of seeking immortals is not relaxed and extended a little longer, the immortals will not come.
When it comes to praying to gods, it seems very pedantic and absurd, but only after a long time can you invite gods.
So all the counties and states built streets, built palaces and temples on famous mountains, hoping that the emperor would come.
This year, South Vietnam had been destroyed, and the emperor's favorite Li Yannian was able to meet the emperor because he was good at music.
The emperor appreciated it very much and asked the ministers to discuss it, saying: Folk sacrifices still have drum music, but now suburban sacrifices have no music. Is this appropriate?
The ministers said: In ancient times, sacrifices to heaven and earth had music, so that gods could be worshiped with rituals.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
或曰： 泰帝使素女鼓五十弦瑟，悲，帝禁不止，故破其瑟为二十五弦。
于是塞南越，祷祠泰一、后土，始用乐舞，益召歌儿，作二十五弦及箜篌瑟自此起。
其来年冬，上议曰： 古者先振兵泽旅，然后封禅。
乃遂北巡朔方，勒兵十余万，还祭黄帝冢桥山，泽兵须如。
上曰： 吾闻黄帝不死，今有冢，何也？
或对曰： 黄帝已仙上天，群臣葬其衣冠。
即至甘泉，为且用事泰山，先类祠泰一。
自得宝鼎，上与公卿诸生议封禅。
封禅用希旷绝，莫知其仪礼，而群儒采封禅《尚书》《周官》《王制》之望祀射牛事。
齐人丁公年九十余，曰： 封者，合不死之名也。秦皇帝不得上封。陛下必欲上，稍上即无风雨，遂上封矣。
上于是乃令诸儒习射牛，草封禅仪。
数年，至且行。
天子既闻公孙卿及方士之言，黄帝以上封禅，皆致怪物与神通，欲放黄帝以尝接神仙人蓬莱士，高世比德于九皇，而颇采儒术以文之。
群儒既以不能辩明封禅事，又牵拘于《诗》《书》古文而不敢骋。
上为封祠器示群儒，群儒或曰 不与古同 ，徐偃又曰 太常诸生行礼不如鲁善 ，周霸属图封事，于是上绌偃、霸，尽罢诸儒弗用。
三月，遂东幸缑氏，礼登中岳太室。从官在山下闻若有言 万岁 云。
translation: 
Others say: Emperor Tai asked a plain girl to play a harp with fifty strings, and the tone was sad. Emperor Tai asked her to stop, but she couldn't stop herself, so he broke her harp into twenty-five strings.
So in order to celebrate the victory against South Vietnam, they held competitions, prayed and offered sacrifices to Taiyi and Houtu, began to use music, singing and dancing, and recruited more singers. It was at this time that they began to make twenty-five-string harp and konghou harp.
In the winter of the next year, the emperor proposed: In ancient times, emperors first rewarded the army with troops, and then held a memorial ceremony.
So the emperor went north to inspect Shuofang, commanding more than 100,000 soldiers. When he came back, he worshiped the Yellow Emperor's Mausoleum at Qiaoshan, and rewarded the troops with wine and food when needed.
The emperor asked: I heard that the Yellow Emperor is not dead, but now there is his tomb. Why is this?
Someone replied: The Yellow Emperor has become an immortal and ascended to heaven, and his ministers buried his clothes and hats here.
When the emperor arrived at Ganquan, in order to hold a Zen ceremony at Mount Tai, he first reported this special event to the God of Taiyi.
Since he obtained the treasure tripod, the emperor has discussed the matter of becoming a Zen official with the ministers and Confucian scholars.
Since the Zen ceremony has not been held for a long time and is almost lost, no one knows its etiquette. Confucian scholars adopted the things of worshiping and shooting oxen recorded in "Shang Shu", "Zhou Guan", "King Zhi" and other books as the ceremony of Zen.
Ding Gong of Qi, who was over ninety years old, said to the emperor: "Feng" should mean immortality. The Emperor of Qin cannot offer sacrifices on Mount Tai. Your Majesty must go up to Mount Tai, and go up slowly first. If there is no wind or rain, you can go up to offer sacrifices.
The emperor then ordered the Confucian scholars to practice shooting oxen and draft a ceremony to enshrine Zen.
A few years later, it was time to hold the Zen ceremony.
Since the emperor had listened to the words of Gongsun Qing and the alchemist, the enshrinement of the Yellow Emperor and above would attract some strange images that could be connected with the immortals. Therefore, he wanted to imitate the Yellow Emperor's method of meeting the immortal Penglai alchemist to make his virtue higher than the world and comparable to the Nine Emperors. He also used Confucianism to decorate his appearance.
Confucian scholars could not clearly distinguish the matters of Zen, and they also stuck to the ancient records of "Poems" and "Books" and did not dare to express themselves freely.
The emperor showed the artifacts used to enshrine Zen to the Confucian scholars. Some Confucian scholars said, "This is different from ancient times."
In March, the emperor traveled eastward to Fengshi County, and according to the ceremony, he climbed Taishi Mountain in Songshan Mountain to hold sacrifices. The accompanying officials heard a sound like someone shouting "Long Live" at the foot of the mountain.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
问上，上不言；问下，下不言。
于是以三百户封太室奉祠，命曰崇高邑。
东上泰山，山之草木叶未生，乃令人上石立之泰山颠。
上遂东巡海上，行礼祠八神。
齐人之上疏言神怪奇方者以万数，然无验者。
乃益发船，令言海中神山者数千人求蓬莱神人。
公孙卿持节常先行候名山，至东莱，言夜见一人，长数丈，就之则不见，见其迹甚大，类禽兽云。
群臣有言见一老父牵狗，言 吾欲见巨公 ，已忽不见。
上既见大迹，未信，及群臣有言老父，则大以为仙人也。
宿留海上，与方士传车及间使求仙人以千数。
四月，还至奉高。上念诸儒及方士言封禅人人殊，不经，难施行。
天子至梁父，礼祠地主。
translation: 
If you ask the people on the mountain, the people on the mountain will not tell you. If you ask the people at the bottom of the mountain, the people at the bottom of the mountain will not tell you.
The emperor enfeoffed 300 households to the royal family for the purpose of offering sacrifices to the temple, and named it Shangzhiyi.
Then he went eastward and climbed Mount Tai. Before the vegetation in the mountain grew leaves, he sent people to transport the stone tablet up the mountain and set it up on the top of Mount Tai.
The emperor then patrolled the sea eastward and worshiped the eight gods according to the rituals: God, Land Lord, Soldier Lord, Yin Lord, Yang Lord, Moon Lord, Sun Lord and the Four Seasons Lord.
Tens of thousands of people in Qi talked about strange and strange prescriptions, but none of them worked.
Therefore, the emperor sent more ships and ordered thousands of people who talked about the gods in the sea to visit Penglai Immortal.
Gongsun Qing took the messenger talisman and went to a famous mountain to wait for the gods. When he arrived in Donglai, he said that he saw a man at night, several feet long. When he got closer, he disappeared. Only his footprints were very large, like those of an animal.
Some of the ministers said that they saw an old man holding a dog and said, "I want to see the emperor." Then he disappeared again.
The emperor heard that someone had seen the big footprints, but he didn't believe it. When someone among the ministers mentioned the old man, he was convinced that he was an immortal.
Therefore, the emperor stayed at the seaside, allocated post cars to the alchemists, and sent thousands of envoys to visit the immortals.
In April, the emperor returned to Fenggao. The emperor considered the Feng Chan discussion among Confucian scholars and alchemists. Everyone's opinions were different, which was inconsistent with common sense and difficult to implement.
The emperor went to Liangfu Mountain again to worship the earth gods according to the rituals.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
乙卯，令侍中儒者皮弁荐绅，射牛行事。
封泰山下东方，如郊祠泰一之礼。
封广丈二尺，高九尺，其下则有玉牒书，书秘。
礼毕，天子独与侍中奉车子侯上泰山，亦有封。
其事皆禁。
明日，下阴道。
丙辰，禅泰山下址东北肃然山，如祭后土礼。
天子皆亲拜见，衣上黄而尽用乐焉。
江淮间一茅三嵴为神藉。五色土益杂封。
纵远方奇兽蜚禽及白雉诸物，颇以加祠。
兕旄牛犀象之属弗用。
皆至泰山然后去。
封禅祠，其夜若有光，昼有白云起封中。
translation: 
On the day of Yimao, the Confucian scholars who were appointed as servants were ordered to wear white deerskin hats and official uniforms with wats on their heads, and hold a cow-shooting ceremony.
Setting up an altar to worship heaven in the east under Mount Tai is the same as worshiping Taiyi in the suburbs.
The altar used to worship heaven is one foot or two feet wide and nine feet high. Under the altar is a book of Zen seals, the content of which is secret.
After the salute was completed, the emperor took Huo Zihou, the captain of the carriage, to Mount Tai alone, and also held a ceremony to worship the heaven.
It is forbidden to spread these things to outsiders.
The next day we came down the road from the north of the mountain.
On Bingchen day, a ceremony of sacrificing the earth was held at Suran Mountain in the northeast corner at the foot of Mount Tai, which was the same as the ritual of sacrificing the earth.
During these ceremonies, the emperor personally paid homage, wearing yellow sacrificial robes, and all were accompanied by music.
The thatch with three spines produced in the Jianghuai area is used as the recommended mat for the gods, and the altar is filled with five-color soil symbolizing the five directions.
Strange beasts, birds and white pheasants were released as tribute from far away, making the ceremony particularly solemn and solemn.
Ji ox, tribe ox, rhinoceros, elephant, etc. are not used.
The emperor and his entourage came to Mount Tai first and then left.
In the place where Zen is worshiped, there seems to be bright light at night, and white clouds rise from the altar during the day.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
天子从封禅还，坐明堂，群臣更上寿。于是制诏御史： 朕以眇眇之身承至尊，兢兢焉惧弗任。
维德菲薄，不明于礼乐。
脩祀泰一，若有象景光，屑如有望，依依震于怪物，欲止不敢，遂登封泰山。
至于梁父，而后禅肃然。
自新，嘉与士大夫更始。赐民百户牛一酒十石，加年八十孤寡布帛二匹。
复博、奉高、蛇丘、历城，毋出今年租税。
其赦天下，如乙卯赦令。
行所过毋有复作。
事在二年前，皆勿听治。
又下诏曰： 古者天子五载一巡狩，用事泰山，诸侯有朝宿地。其令诸侯各治邸泰山下。
translation: 
The emperor came back from the place of Zen and sat in the Mingtang. The ministers congratulated him one after another. Then the emperor issued an edict to the censor, saying: I inherited the supreme power with a humble body. I work hard, but I am afraid I will not be qualified.
My moral character is shallow and I don’t understand etiquette and music.
After worshiping God Taiyi, an auspicious light seemed to appear in the sky. I seemed to have seen something. I was shocked by this strange sight. I wanted to stop worshiping but didn't dare, so I climbed Mount Tai to worship heaven.
Arrive at Liangfu Mountain and then worship at Suran Mountain.
From then on, he cultivated his moral character and made a new start with the local officials. He gave the common people one cow and ten stones of wine for every 100 households, and two pieces of cloth and silk were given to the elderly over eighty years old, orphans and widows.
The four places of Bo County, Fenggao, Sheqiu and Licheng were exempted from corvee service and did not pay taxes for the current year.
Amnesty for the whole world is the same as the amnesty decree in Yi Mao year.
Wherever I pass, I am exempted from supervised release.
Those who committed crimes two years ago should not be tried or convicted again.
He also issued an edict saying: In ancient times, the emperor went on a hunting tour every five years and went to Mount Tai to offer sacrifices. The princes who came to worship had their own residences, and ordered the princes to build official residences at the foot of Mount Tai.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
天子既已封禅泰山，无风雨菑，而方士更言蓬莱诸神山若将可得，于是上欣然庶几遇之，乃复东至海上望，冀遇蓬莱焉。
奉车子侯暴病，一日死。
上乃遂去，并海上，北至碣石，巡自辽西，历北边至九原。
五月，返至甘泉。
有司言宝鼎出为元鼎，以今年为元封元年。
其秋，有星茀于东井。
后十余日，有星茀于三能。
望气王朔言： 候独见其星出如瓠，食顷复入焉。
有司言曰： 陛下建汉家封禅，天其报德星云。
其来年冬，郊雍五帝，还，拜祝祠泰一。
赞飨曰： 德星昭衍，厥维休祥。
寿星仍出，渊耀光明。
信星昭见，皇帝敬拜泰祝之飨。
translation: 
Since the emperor has enshrined Zen in Mount Tai and has not encountered wind and rain disasters, the locals said that the sacred mountains in Penglai will also be found. The emperor was very happy and thought that he might be able to meet the gods, so he went eastward to the seaside to look at the Penglai Immortal Island.
At this time, Huo Zihou, the captain of Fengche, suddenly fell ill and died that day.
The emperor then left, along the coast, heading north to Jieshi, and then patrolled from western Liaoning, passing through the northern border, to Jiuyuan.
In May, the emperor returned to Ganquan Palace.
The official in charge proposed that the year when Baoding appeared should be designated as Yuan Ding. Since the Fengchan ceremony was held this year, the year name should be designated as Yuanfeng, and this year would be the first year of Yuanfeng.
In the autumn of this year, a radiant star appeared in Dongjing.
More than ten days later, another radiant star appeared in the Santai constellation area.
The frustrated official Wang Shuo said: When I observed the sky, I only saw this star appearing like a gourd, and then disappeared again within a meal.
The official in charge said: Your Majesty established the Han Dynasty's ritual system for conferring Zen, and the star of virtue appeared in the sky as a reward for you.
In the winter of the next year, the emperor went to the outskirts of Yong County to worship the Five Emperors. When he came back, he worshiped the Taiyi God with a ceremony of thanksgiving and prayer.
The congratulatory message said: The radiant virtue star indicates good fortune.
The longevity star appears again and again, showing that the world is peaceful and bright.
The letter star clearly showed the long-term destiny of the country. The emperor respectfully thanked and prayed, and please enjoy the sacrifices.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
其春，公孙卿言见神人东莱山，若云 见天子 。
天子于是幸缑氏城，拜卿为中大夫。
遂至东莱，宿留之数日，毋所见，见大人迹。
复遣方士求神怪采芝药以千数。
是岁旱。于是天子既出毋名，乃祷万里沙，过祠泰山。
还至瓠子，自临塞决河，留二日，沉祠而去。
使二卿将卒塞决河，河徙二渠，复禹之故迹焉。
是时既灭南越，越人勇之乃言 越人俗信鬼，而其祠皆见鬼，数有效。
昔东瓯王敬鬼，寿至百六十岁。
后世谩怠，故衰秏 。
乃令越巫立越祝祠，安台无坛，亦祠天神上帝百鬼，而以鸡卜。
上信之，越祠鸡卜始用焉。
公孙卿曰： 仙人可见，而上往常遽，以故不见。
translation: 
In the spring of this year, Gongsun Qing said that he had seen an immortal in Donglai Mountain. The immortal seemed to want to see the emperor.
So the emperor came to Fengshi City and appointed Gongsun Qing as the middle doctor.
Then I came to Donglai and stopped several times. I saw nothing but big footprints.
The emperor also sent thousands of alchemists to visit gods and monsters and collect Ganoderma lucidum herbs.
There was a drought in this year, and the emperor no longer had a reasonable reason to go on patrol, so he prayed at Wanlisha and performed sacrifices when he passed Mount Tai.
When he returned, he went to Huzikou and personally arranged the breach to block the Yellow River. He stayed for two days and made sacrifices to the river god before leaving.
The emperor sent two generals to lead their troops to block the breach in the river, causing the river water to flow through the other two rivers, restoring the original appearance of the river when Dayu controlled the water.
At that time, South Vietnam had been destroyed, and the Yue people Yongzhi told the emperor that the Yue people had the custom of believing in ghosts, and they could see ghosts every time they offered sacrifices, which were often effective.
Once upon a time, King Dongou respected ghosts and lived to be one hundred and sixty years old.
Later generations were indifferent to ghosts, so they declined.
So the emperor ordered Yue shamans to build Yue-style ancestral temples, which only had altars but no altars. They were used to offer sacrifices to gods, gods, and ghosts, and to use chicken bones to divine good and bad luck.
Because the emperor believed this, Yue Temple and Chicken Divination gradually became popular at that time.
Gongsun Qing said: The immortal can be seen, but the emperor is in a hurry every time he asks for a visit, so he cannot see the immortal.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
今陛下可为观，如缑氏城，置脯枣，神人宜可致。
且仙人好楼居。
于是上令长安则作蜚廉桂观，甘泉则作益延寿观，使卿持节设具而候神人。
乃作通天台，置祠具其下，将招来神仙之属。
于是甘泉更置前殿，始广诸宫室。
夏，有芝生殿防内中。
天子为塞河，兴通天台，若有光云，乃下诏曰： 甘泉防生芝九茎，赦天下，毋有复作。
其明年，伐朝鲜。
夏，旱。
公孙卿曰： 黄帝时封则天旱，干封三年。
上乃下诏曰： 天旱，意干封乎？
其令天下尊祠灵星焉。
其明年，上郊雍，通回中道，巡之。
春，至鸣泽，从西河归。
其明年冬，上巡南郡，至江陵而东。登礼潜之天柱山，号曰南岳。
translation: 
Now your majesty can build a temple, like the one in Fengshi City, to offer preserved meat and dates, and you should be able to invite immortals.
And immortals like to live in attics.
So the emperor ordered the construction of Feilian Temple and Gui Temple in Chang'an, and the Yiyanshou Temple in Ganquan Palace. He sent Gongsunqing to hold talismans and display offerings to welcome the immortals.
Then he built a Tongtian platform and placed sacrificial utensils under the platform in preparation for attracting immortals.
At this time, the front hall was built in Ganquan Palace and many palace rooms began to be expanded.
In summer, there are mushrooms growing in the living room.
Because the breach of the Yellow River was blocked, the Emperor built the Tongtian Tower, and there seemed to be a sign of divine light from the sky, so he issued an edict: "Nine stems of Ganoderma lucidum grew in the Ganquan Palace, and he granted amnesty to the world and exempted him from servitude outside prison."
The next year, he conquered North Korea.
Summer is dry.
Gongsun Qing said: When the Yellow Emperor held sacrifices, there was a drought. In order to dry the soil on the altar, the drought lasted for three years.
The emperor then issued an edict: "Drought, does it mean that God is going to make the soil of the sacrificial altar dry?"
For this reason, the people of the world were ordered to solemnly offer sacrifices to the spiritual star.
Another year later, the emperor went to the outskirts of Yong County to hold a festival, and on his way back to central China, he went there for inspection.
In spring, arrive at Narusawa and return from Xihe.
The next winter, the emperor visited Nanjun, went east to Jiangling, climbed Tianzhu Mountain in Qianxian County, worshiped according to the ritual, and called the mountain Nanyue.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
浮江，自寻阳出枞阳，过彭蠡，祀其名山川。
北至琅邪，并海上。
四月中，至奉高脩封焉。
初，天子封泰山，泰山东北址古时有明堂处，处险不敞。
上欲治明堂奉高旁，未晓其制度。
济南人公玊带上黄帝时《明堂图》。
《明堂图》中有一殿，四面无壁，以茅盖，通水，圜宫垣为复道，上有楼，从西南入，命曰昆仑，天子从之入，以拜祠上帝焉。
于是上令奉高作明堂汶上，如带图。
及五年脩封，则祠泰一、五帝于明堂上坐，令高皇帝祠坐对之。
祠后土于下房，以二十太牢。天子从昆仑道入，始拜明堂如郊礼。礼毕，燎堂下。
而上又上泰山，有秘祠其颠。
而泰山下祠五帝，各如其方，黄帝并赤帝，而有司侍祠焉。
泰山上举火，下悉应之。
translation: 
Traveling along the river, starting from Xunyang, arriving at Songyang, passing by Pengli, and worshiping the famous mountains and rivers in these places along the river.
Go north to Langye, and then go north along the coast.
In mid-April, he arrived in Fenggao County and held a Zen ceremony.
Back then, the emperor held a ceremony to confer Zen on Mount Tai. To the northeast at the foot of Mount Tai was the ruins of the ancient Mingtang. The location was steep and not wide.
The emperor wanted to build a Mingtang near Fenggao County, but he didn't know the Mingtang system.
The people of Jinan presented the picture of the Mingtang in the Yellow Emperor's time with a ribbon.
In the picture of Mingtang, there is a hall with no walls on all sides. It is covered with thatch and has ditches all around. Surrounding the palace wall is a compound road with a tower above. Entering the hall from the southwest is called Kunlun Road. The emperor enters from here to worship heaven.
So the emperor ordered Fenggao County to build a Mingtang in Wenshang according to the plans of Gongyang Dai.
In the fifth year of Yuanfeng's reign, the ceremony was held, and the Taiyi and Five Emperors were worshiped in the upper seat of the Mingtang. The spiritual throne of Emperor Gao was placed opposite.
Twenty cows were sacrificed to the queen and the earth was placed in the lower chamber. The emperor entered from Kunlun Road and began to worship in the Mingtang according to the etiquette of suburban sacrifices. After the sacrifice is completed, the remaining animal meat is burned in the hall.
Afterwards, the emperor climbed Mount Tai and held secret sacrifices on the top of the mountain.
The five emperors were worshiped at the foot of Mount Tai in accordance with their respective directions. Only the Yellow Emperor and the Red Emperor were worshiped together, accompanied by officials in charge.
When a fire is lit on Mount Tai, fires are also lit below the mountain.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
其后二岁，十一月甲子朔旦冬至，推历者以本统。
天子亲至泰山，以十一月甲子朔旦冬至日祠上帝明堂，每脩封禅。
其赞飨曰： 天增授皇帝泰元神策，周而复始。
皇帝敬拜泰一。
东至海上，考入海及方士求神者，莫验，然益遣，冀遇之。
十一月乙酉，柏梁灾。
十二月甲午朔，上亲禅高里，祠后土。
临渤海，将以望祠蓬莱之属，冀至殊庭焉。
上还，以柏梁灾故，朝受计甘泉。
公孙卿曰： 黄帝就青灵台，十二日烧，黄帝乃治明庭。
明庭，甘泉也。
方士多言古帝王有都甘泉者。
其后天子又朝诸侯甘泉，甘泉作诸侯邸。
勇之乃曰： 越俗有火灾，复起屋必以大，用胜服之。
于是作建章宫，度为千门万户。
前殿度高未央，其东则凤阙，高二十余丈。
其西则唐中，数十里虎圈。
其北治大池，渐台高二十余丈，名曰泰液池，中有蓬莱、方丈、瀛洲、壶梁，象海中神山龟鱼之属。
其南有玉堂、璧门、大鸟之属。
乃立神明台、井干楼，度五十余丈，辇道相属焉。
夏，汉改历，以正月为岁首，而色上黄，官名更印章以五字，因为太初元年。
是岁，西伐大宛。
translation: 
Two years later, it was Jiazishuo day in November, the morning intersected with the winter solstice, and those who calculated the calendar used this day as the starting point of the new calendar.
The emperor personally went to Mount Tai, and on the winter solstice day of Jiazishuodan in November, he went to the Mingtang to offer sacrifices to heaven without holding a Zen ceremony.
The congratulatory message said: God has given Emperor Taiyuan divine strategies, and the cycle begins again and again.
The emperor respectfully thanked Taiyi.
The emperor traveled east again to the seaside and inspected the people and alchemists who went to the sea to seek immortality. No results were found. However, he still sent more people there in the hope of encountering immortals.
In November Yiyou, a fire broke out in Bailiang Terrace.
On the first day of the Jiawu lunar month in December, the emperor personally went to Gaoli Mountain to worship and worship Hou Tu.
I once went to the Bohai Sea and wanted to pay homage to a fairy mountain like Penglai in the distance, hoping to go to a foreign land where the immortals lived.
After the emperor returned to the capital, because Bailiang Terrace was destroyed by fire, he went to court in Ganquan Palace to receive the county's accounting books.
Gongsun Qing said: Huangdi built Qingling Tower, which was burned for twelve days, and Huangdi built Mingting Pavilion.
Mingting is now Ganquan Palace.
Fang Shiduo said that in ancient times, emperors built their capitals in Ganquan.
After that, the emperor met with the princes in Ganquan Palace and built the official residences of the princes in Ganquan Palace.
Yongzhi added: The Yue people have a custom that the houses built after a fire must be larger than those before the fire, in order to contain the disaster.
So Jianzhang Palace was built, with thousands of houses designed, and the height of the front hall exceeded that of Weiyang Palace.
To the east is Fengque, more than twenty feet high.
To the west is Tangzhong Garden, surrounded by dozens of miles of tiger enclosures.
A large pool was dug in the north. The terrace in the pool was more than twenty feet high. The pool was called Taiye Pool. There were stone carvings in the pool such as Penglai, Fangzhang, Yingzhou, Huliang, and similar to the sacred mountains, turtles, and fish in the sea.
In the south, there are statues such as the Jade Hall, the Bimen and the Divine Bird.
Shenming Terrace and Jinggan Tower were also built, both of which were more than fifty feet high, with driveways connecting the pavilions.
In the summer, the Han Dynasty reformed the calendar, using the first month of the lunar calendar as the beginning of the year. The color was still yellow, and the official seal was changed to five characters, so the era name was changed to the first year of Taichu.
This year, the Western Expedition to Dayuan was launched.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
蝗大起。
丁夫人、雒阳虞初等以方祠诅匈奴、大宛焉。
其明年，有司言雍五畤无牢熟具，芬芳不备。
乃命祠官进畤犊牢具，五色食所胜，而以木禺马代驹焉。
独五帝用驹，行亲郊用驹。
及诸名山川用驹者，悉以木禺马代。
行过，乃用驹。
他礼如故。
其明年，东巡海上，考神仙之属，未有验者。
方士有言 黄帝时为五城十二楼，以候神人于执期，命曰迎年 。
上许作之如方，名曰明年。
上亲礼祠上帝，衣上黄焉。
公玊带曰： 黄帝时虽封泰山，然风后、封钜、岐伯令黄帝封东泰山，禅凡山合符，然后不死焉。
translation: 
A massive locust plague occurred.
Mrs. Ding, Luoyang Yuchu and others used alchemy to offer sacrifices, and during the sacrifices, they begged ghosts and gods to bring disaster to the Xiongnu and Dawan.
The next year, officials in charge said that no cooked livestock or other sacrifices were used during the Wuju sacrifice in Yong County, and no fragrant fragrance appeared.
The emperor then ordered the ancestral officials to sacrifice cooked calves to the five emperors in the colors used for food, and use puppet horses instead of ponies as sacrifices.
Ponies were only used when offering sacrifices to the Five Emperors, and ponies were used when the emperor personally offered sacrifices in the countryside.
Those who used ponies to worship famous mountains and rivers were all replaced by puppet horses.
The emperor used ponies to offer sacrifices when he was on patrol.
Other etiquette are the same as before.
Another year later, the emperor traveled eastward, inspected the seaside, and examined things about gods and immortals, but nothing came true.
Some alchemists said that the purpose of building five cities and twelve towers during the Yellow Emperor's reign was to wait for the immortals during the execution period, which was called "welcoming the new year".
The emperor allowed it to be built as he said, calling it next year.
The emperor also put on yellow clothes and personally offered sacrifices to heaven according to the ceremony.
Gong Yingdai said: Although the Yellow Emperor held a ceremony for conferring Zen in Mount Tai, Feng Hou, Feng Ju and Qi Bo asked the Yellow Emperor to confer sacrifices on Mount Tai in the East and set up a place to offer sacrifices in Mount Fan to match Fu Rui, so that they could live forever.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
天子既令设祠具，至东泰山，东泰山卑小，不称其声，乃令祠官礼之，而不封禅焉。
其后令带奉祠候神物。
夏，遂还泰山，修五年之礼如前，而加禅祠石闾。
石闾者，在泰山下址南方，方士多言此仙人之闾也，故上亲禅焉。
其后五年，复至泰山脩封，还过祭常山。
今天子所兴祠，泰一、后土，三年亲郊祠，建汉家封禅，五年一脩封。
薄忌泰一及三一、冥羊、马行、赤星，五，宽舒之祠官以岁时致礼。
凡六祠，皆太祝领之。
至如八神诸神，明年、凡山他名祠，行过则祀，去则已。
方士所兴祠，各自主，其人终则已，祠官弗主。他祠皆如其故。
今上封禅，其后十二岁而还，遍于五岳、四渎矣。
translation: 
The emperor ordered the preparation of sacrificial utensils, and when he came to Dongtai Mountain, he saw that Dongtai Mountain was short and incompatible with its reputation, so he ordered the ancestral officials to worship according to the etiquette and not hold a Zen ceremony.
Later, the public servants were ordered to offer sacrifices there and wait for the gods.
In the summer, the emperor returned to Mount Tai and held the five-year Zen ceremony. The etiquette was the same as before, with the addition of the etiquette of worshiping the land at Shilu Mountain.
Shilu Mountain is located to the south of the foot of Mount Tai. Many alchemists said that this is where immortals live, so the emperor personally worshiped it.
Five years later, the emperor went to Mount Tai to offer sacrifices, and on his way back he also offered sacrifices to Mount Chang.
When the emperor built the temples Taiyi and Houtu, the emperor himself would offer sacrifices in the suburbs every three years. The Han family's Zen system established by the emperor would be held every five years.
Bo Youji also petitioned to build five shrines, Taiyi, Sanyi, Mingyang, Maxing and Chixing, and the temple official Kuanshu held sacrificial ceremonies according to the prescribed time.
These five temples, together with Taiyi and Houtu Temples, total six temples, all of which are managed by Taizhu.
As for the shrines of gods such as the Eight Gods and other famous mountains and rivers such as Next Year and Fanshan, worship was performed when the emperor passed by and stopped after he left.
The gods built by the alchemists each presided over the sacrifices. When the person died, the sacrifices stopped. The ancestral officials were no longer in charge of the sacrifices. Other temples were handled according to the original regulations.
Now that the emperor has enshrined Zen, he will look back in the next twelve years and worship all the five mountains and four mountains.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
而方士之候祠神人，入海求蓬莱，终无有验。
而公孙卿之候神者，犹以大人迹为解，无其效。
天子益怠厌方士之怪迂语矣，然终羁縻弗绝，冀遇其真。
自此之后，方士言祠神者弥众，然其效可睹矣。
太史公曰：余从巡祭天地诸神名山川而封禅焉。
入寿宫侍祠神语，究观方士祠官之言，于是退而论次自古以来用事于鬼神者，具见其表里。后有君子，得以览焉。
至若俎豆圭币之详，献酬之礼，则有司存焉。
translation: 
The alchemists waited and offered sacrifices to the gods, and went to the sea to visit Penglai, but to no avail.
But Gongsun Qing and other alchemists who were waiting for the immortal used the giant's footprints as an excuse, but it had no effect.
The emperor was getting tired of the magicians' strange and profound discussions, but he always wanted to win over them, hoping to meet the real immortals.
Since then, alchemists have talked more about offering sacrifices to gods, but the effect can be seen.
Tai Shigong said: I followed the emperor on his tour, worshiped the gods of heaven and earth and famous mountains and rivers, and participated in the Zen ceremony.
I entered the Shrine of the Shougong Palace and listened to the blessings of sacrifices to the gods. I observed and studied the remarks of the alchemists and ancestral officials. Then I sat down and described in chronological order the things that have been done to worship ghosts and gods since ancient times, specifically revealing its superficial phenomena and inner actual conditions. People who have knowledge in the future should be able to see the situation at that time from here.
As for the details of Zu Dougui, jade, coins, and the etiquette of offering sacrifices to the gods, there are specific regulations from the officials in charge.


