Chunk 0: 
original: 
虞诩傅变盖勋臧洪虞诩字升卿，陈国武平人也。
祖父经，为郡县狱吏，案法平允，务存宽恕，每冬月上其状，恒流涕随之。
尝称曰： 东海于公高为里门，而其子定国卒至丞相。
吾决狱六十年矣，虽不及于公，其庶几乎！子孙何必不为九卿邪？
故字诩曰升卿。
诩年十二，能通《尚书》。
早孤，孝养祖母。
县举顺孙，国相奇之，欲以为吏。
诩辞曰： 祖母九十，非诩不养。
相乃止。
后祖母终，服阕，辟太尉李脩府，拜郎中。
永初四年，羌胡反乱，残破并、凉，大将军邓骘以军役方费，事不相赡，欲弃凉州，并力北边，乃会公卿集议。
骘曰： 譬若衣败，坏一以相补，犹有所完。
若不如此，将两无所保。
凉州既弃，即以三辅为塞；三辅为塞，则园陵单外。
此不可之甚者也。彦曰： 关西出将，关东出相。 观其习兵壮勇，实过余州。
今羌胡所以不敢入据三辅，为心腹之害者，以凉州在后故也。
其土人所以推锋执锐，无反顾之心者，为臣属于汉故也。
若弃其境域，徙其人庶，安土重迁，必生异志。
如使豪雄相聚，席卷而东，虽贲、育为卒，太公为将，犹恐不足当御。
议者喻以补衣犹有所完，诩恐其疽食侵淫而无限极。
弃之非计。
脩曰： 吾意不及此。
微子之言，几败国事。
然则计当安出？
诩曰： 今凉土扰动，人情不安，窃忧卒然有非常之变。
诚宜令四府九卿，各辟彼州数人，其牧守令长子弟皆除为冗官，外以劝厉，答其功勤，内以拘致，防其邪计。
脩善其言，更集四府，皆从诩议。
于是辟西州豪桀为掾属，拜牧守长吏子弟为郎，以安慰之。
邓骘兄弟以诩异其议，因此不平，欲以吏法中伤诩。
translation: 
◆The biography of Yu Xu, whose courtesy name was Shengqing, was from Wuping in the state of Chen.
My grandfather, Yu Jing, was a county prison officer. He handled cases impartially, was generous, and respected himself and others. Every winter month, the case is reported, and I often shed tears over it.
He once said: In the East China Sea, a gate was built at the Duke's height, and the horses and chariots were made high, thinking that some of their descendants would become high officials. And his son Dingguo finally became prime minister.
I have been in prison for sixty years. Although I am not as good as Yu Gong, maybe it is about the same. My descendants may not become Jiuqing.
Therefore, Yu Xu was given the title "Qing".
Yu Xu was twelve years old and could read Shangshu.
Is an orphan. Take care of your grandmother.
The county elected him as his grandson, and the prime minister admired him very much and wanted him to be an official.
Yu Xu declined and said: "Grandma is ninety years old. Without me, there is no one to take care of her."
The Prime Minister didn't ask him to go.
After his grandmother passed away and the period of mourning expired, he was recruited into Taiwei Li's Mansion and was awarded the title of doctor.
In the fourth year of Yongchu, the Qiang rebelled and ravaged Bing and Liang. The general Deng Zhi thought that the military situation was tense and could not take care of both. He wanted to abandon Liangzhou and concentrate his forces on the north.
So he summoned the ministers for a meeting, and Deng Zhi said: For example, if your clothes are broken, if you repair one broken piece and repair another, one piece will still be intact.
If not, there will be no protection.
Everyone at the meeting agreed. After hearing this, Yu Xu said to Li: "It is said that Gongqing decided to abandon Liangzhou. In my opinion, it is inappropriate." The late emperor worked hard to open up the territory, but now he was afraid of the trouble and threw it away.
Since Liangzhou is lost, then the Third Assistant is regarded as a frontier fortress. If the Third Assistant is a frontier fortress, then the ancestral garden tombs are outside the boundary. This is absolutely unacceptable. As the saying goes: Guanxi produces prime ministers, Guandong produces generals, Liangzhou trains troops and trains bravery, surpassing other states.
Now the Qiang and Hu dare not invade Sanfu because Liangzhou is behind him and is his thorn in the side!
The people of Liangzhou took up arms to defend Liangzhou without any hesitation, because Liangzhou belonged to the Han Dynasty!
If you abandon it and move the people away, and the people are content with their homeland and are unwilling to move, something will happen.
Suppose the heroes gather together and take advantage of the situation to come eastward. Even though there are warriors like Ben and Yu and generals like Taigong, they may not be able to withstand it.
The speaker used the analogy of mending clothes that has yet to be completed. I see it as a ulcer that gets wider and wider and never stops.
Abandoning Liangzhou is not a strategy.
Li said: I didn't expect that.
It’s not like you said that it almost failed in national affairs.
So, what’s a good strategy?
Yu Xu said: There is a commotion in Liangzhou today, and people are uneasy. I am worried that something unexpected will happen.
The nine ministers of the four prefectures should be ordered to recommend several people from their respective states, and all the eldest sons of the Mu Shou Ling should be given official positions. On the surface, it is to reward their merits, but in fact, it is to monitor them and prevent them from causing trouble.
Li thought he was right, and even extended the four prefectures to follow Yu Xu's plan.
So he recruited the heroes of the two states as vassals, and appointed the sons of the shepherds and guardians as ministers to comfort them.
The Deng Zhi brothers were dissatisfied because Yu Xu opposed Deng Zhi's opinions. He wanted to use the official law to frame Yu Xu.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
后朝歌贼宁季等数千人攻杀长吏，屯聚连年，州郡不能禁，乃以诩为朝歌长。
故旧皆吊诩曰： 得朝歌何衰！
诩笑曰： 志不求易，事不避难，臣之职也。
不遇槃根错节何以别利器乎？
始到，谒河内大守马棱。棱勉之曰： 君儒者，当谋谟庙堂，反在朝歌邪？
诩曰： 初除之日，士大夫皆见吊勉。
以诩讠寿之，知其无能为也。
朝歌者，韩、魏之郊，背太行，临黄河，去敖仓百里，而青、冀之人流亡万数。
贼不知开仓招众，劫库兵，守城皋，断天下右臂，此不足忧也。
今其众新盛，难与争锋。
兵不厌权，愿宽假辔策，勿令有所拘阂而已。
及到官，设令三科以募求壮士，自掾史以下各举所知，其攻劫者为上，伤人偷盗者次之，带丧服而不事家业为不。
收得百余人，诩为飨会，悉贳其罪，使入贼中，诱令劫掠，乃伏兵以待之，遂杀贼数百人。
又潜遣贫人能缝者。佣作贼衣，以采綖缝其裾为帜，有出市里者，吏辄禽之。
贼由是骇散，咸称神明。
迁怀令。
后羌寇武都，邓太后以诩有将帅之略，迁武都太守，引见嘉德殿，厚加赏赐。
羌乃率众数千，遮诩于陈仓、崤谷，诩即停军不进，而宣言上书请兵，须到当发。
羌闻之，乃分抄傍县，诩因其兵散，日夜进道，兼行百余里。
令吏士各作两灶，日增倍之，羌不敢逼。
或问曰： 孙膑减灶而君增之。兵法日行不过三十里，以戒不虞，而今日且二百里。
何也？ 诩曰： 虏众多，吾兵少。
徐行则易为所及，速进则彼所不测。
虏见吾灶日增，必谓郡兵来迎。
众多行速，必惮追我。
孙膑见弱，吾今示强，势有不同故也。
translation: 
Later, the song thief Ning Ji and thousands of others attacked and killed the chief officials, and continued for years. The state and county could not stop him, so Yu Xu was appointed as the chief song officer.
Some old friends said to Yu Xu with regret: It’s such a shame to go to Chaoge!
Yu Xu said with a smile: "It is my duty to never seek easy things when I want to, and never take refuge in things."
How can one recognize a sharp weapon without encountering twisted roots and disordered joints?
When he arrived, he went to see Maleng, the governor of Hanoi. Maleng encouraged him and said: You are a learned man and should plan national affairs in the court. Why do you come to Chao Ge?
Yu Xu said: On the day I was appointed, many high-ranking officials came to express their condolences and encourage me.
I think a thief can't do anything.
Chaoge is located at the junction of Han and Wei, backed by Taihang, facing the Yellow River, and hundreds of miles away from Aocang. Tens of thousands of people from Qingzhou and Jizhou fled here.
There is no need to worry if thieves don't know how to open warehouses, recruit people, rob the warehouses of weapons, defend the city, and cut off the right hand of the world.
Now, the thieves are in full swing and it is difficult to compete.
Soldiers never tire of deceit. I hope you can give me more soldiers and horses so that I won't be in trouble.
As soon as he took office, he set up three departments to recruit strong men, and asked everyone from the history to the following to be known; those who robbed were the best, those who hurt people and stole were the second, and those who wore mourning clothes but did not work on the family business were the lowest.
A total of more than a hundred people were recruited. Yu Xu hosted a banquet for them, and all of them were exempted from their sins. He made them run into the thieves, lured them to plunder, and set up an ambush to act according to the opportunity, so he killed hundreds of thieves.
They also sent poor people who knew how to sew to make clothes for the thieves, and sewed silk threads on the skirts of the clothes to mark them. When the thieves came in and out of the city, the officers and soldiers would catch them.
The thieves were frightened and dispersed. Everyone calls Yu Xu the god.
Yu Xu was promoted to magistrate of Huai County.
Later, the Qiang invaded Wudu. Empress Dowager Deng was promoted to the prefect of Wudu because of Yu Xu's general's strategy. She was summoned to the Jiade Palace and received many rewards.
Qiang then led thousands of people to stop Yu Xu between Chencang and Xiaogu. Yu Xu immediately stopped his troops and refused to advance. He threatened to send a letter to invite troops and wait for reinforcements to arrive before advancing.
The Qiang knew about it and divided their troops to rob other counties. Because the Qiang soldiers were scattered, Yu Xu marched day and night, doubling his advance for more than a hundred miles.
He ordered the officials to make two stoves each, doubling the number a day, so that the Qiang did not dare to pursue them.
Someone asked: Sun Bin reduces the number of stoves and you increase them. The art of war can only travel thirty miles a day to prevent unexpected events. Now you can travel two hundred miles a day. Why?
Yu Xu said: There are many captive soldiers, but I have few soldiers.
If you walk slowly, you will be easily overtaken; if you walk quickly, you will be caught unawares.
Seeing that my cooking stoves are increasing day by day, the soldiers must have come to pick me up.
There are many people and I move quickly, so the captives dare not chase me.
Sun Bin pretended to be weak, and I pretend to be strong now, because the situations are different.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
既到郡，兵不满三千，而羌众万余，攻围赤亭数十日。
诩乃令军中，使强弩勿发，而潜发小弩。
羌以为矢力弱，不能至，并兵急攻。
诩于是使二十强弩共射一人，发无不中，羌大震，退。
诩因出城奋击，多所伤杀。
明日悉陈其兵众，令从东郭门出，北郭门入，贸易衣服，回转数周。羌不知其数，更相恐动。
诩计贼当退，乃潜遣五百余人于浅水设伏，候其走路。
虏果大奔，因掩击，大破之，斩获甚众，贼由是败散，南入益州。
诩乃占相地势，筑营壁百八十所，招还流亡，假赈贫人，郡遂以安。
先是，运道艰险，舟车不通，驴马负载，僦五致一。
诩乃自将吏士，案行川谷，自沮至下辩数十里中，皆烧石剪木，开漕船道，以人僦直雇借佣者，于是水运通利，岁省四千余万。
诩始到郡，户裁盈万。
及绥聚荒余，招还流散，二三年间，遂增至四万余户，盐米丰贱，十倍于前。
坐法免。
永建元年，代陈禅为司隶校尉。
数月间，奏太傅冯石、太尉刘熹、中常侍程璜、陈秉、孟生、李闰等，百官侧目，号为苛刻。
三公劾奏诩盛夏多拘系无辜，为吏人患。
诩上书自讼曰： 法禁者俗之堤防，刑罚者人之衔辔。
今州曰任郡，郡曰任县，更相委远，百姓怨穷，以苟容为贤，尽节为愚。
臣所发举，臧罪非一，二府恐为臣所奏，遂加诬罪。
臣将从史鱼死，即以尸谏耳。
顺帝省其章，乃为免司空陶敦。
时，中常侍张防特用权势，每请托受取，诩辄案之，而屡寝不报。
诩不胜其愤，乃自系廷尉，奏言曰： 昔孝安皇帝任用樊丰，遂交乱嫡统，几亡社稷。
今者张防复弄威柄，国家之祸将重至矣。臣不忍与防同朝，谨自系以闻，无令臣袭杨震之迹。
translation: 
When they arrived at the county, there were less than 3,000 soldiers and more than 10,000 Qiang soldiers. They besieged Chiting for dozens of days.
Yu Xu ordered the army not to fire strong crossbows, but to quietly fire small crossbows.
Qiang thought that the arrow was weak and could not be reached, so he concentrated his troops to attack quickly.
Yu Xu used twenty strong crossbows to shoot at one person, and all the shots hit. The Qiang soldiers were shocked and retreated.
Therefore, Yu Xu went out of the city to pursue him, killing many people.
The next day, he led the entire army out of the Dongguo Gate and entered the Beiguo Gate. He changed his clothes and turned around for a few weeks. The Qiang people didn't know how many troops Yu Xu had, and they were even more frightened.
Yu Xu was sure that the Qiang thieves would retreat, so he secretly sent more than 500 people to ambush in shallow water, waiting for the Qiang thieves to escape.
The Qiang thieves really ran into the enemy, attacked suddenly, defeated them, and gained a lot. The thieves were defeated and went south to Yizhou.
So Yu Xu observed the terrain, built one hundred and eighty fortifications, recruited the fugitive people, helped the poor, and the county became peaceful.
In the past, transportation was difficult and there was no way for boats and cars. Donkeys and horses can transport only one stone out of five.
Yu Xu himself led his officers and soldiers to inspect the rivers and valleys, from depression to deliberation. Within tens of miles, he chopped rocks and cut wood, opened a grain transport channel, hired laborers, and paid them on a per-person basis. As a result, water transportation was facilitated and more than 40 million yuan was saved every year.
When Yu Xu arrived in the county, there were only ten thousand households.
After cleaning up the chaos and recruiting scattered people, the number increased to more than 40,000 households in two or three years. Salt and rice are plentiful and cheap, ten times as much as before.
Dismissed from office for breaking the law.
In the first year of Yongjian's reign, he replaced Chen Chan as the school captain of Sili.
Within a few months, he impeached Tai Tu Feng Shi, Tai Wei Liu Xi, Zhong Chang Shi Cheng Huang, Chen Bing, Meng Sheng, Li Run, etc. All officials hated him and called him harsh.
Sangong impeached Yu Xu to arrest innocent people in midsummer, which was a disaster for officials.
Yu Xu wrote a letter of complaint saying: Laws and prohibitions are the defenses of society, and punishments are people's spurs.
Nowadays, states promote counties, and counties promote counties. They blame each other, and the people complain. Tolerance is regarded as virtuous, and loyalty is regarded as foolish.
There were many crimes I reported, and the second government was afraid that I would report them, so they framed me.
I will die like a fish, and I will use my corpse to advise you.
Emperor Shun read his memorial and dismissed Tao Dun from his post as Sikong.
At that time, Zhang Fang, the minister in charge, abused his power and accepted bribes. Yu Xu pursued the case in accordance with the law, but was often detained and not allowed to report.
Yu Xu was extremely angry. So he tied himself up and went to see the court captain, and reported: In the past, Emperor Xiaoan appointed Fan Feng, which disrupted the orthodoxy and almost destroyed the country.
Now Zhang Fang is gaining power again, and the country is in trouble again. I can't be with Zhang Fang. I have to tie myself up and come here. Don't let me follow Yang Zhen's path.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
书奏，防流涕诉帝，诩坐论输左校。
防必欲害之，二日之中，传考四狱。
狱吏劝诩自引，诩曰： 宁伏欧刀以示远近。
宦者孙程、张贤等知诩以忠获罪，乃相率奏乞见。
程曰： 陛下始与臣等造事之时，常疾奸臣，知其倾国。
今者即位而复自为，何以非先帝乎？
司隶校尉虞诩为陛下尽忠，而更被拘系；常侍张防臧罪明正，反构忠良。
今客星守羽林，其占宫中有奸臣。
宜急收防送狱，以塞天变。
下诏出诩，还假印绶。
时，防立在帝后，程乃叱防曰： 奸臣张防，何不下殿！
防不得已，趋就东箱。
程曰： 陛下急收防，无令从阿母求请。
帝问诸尚书，尚书贾朗素与防善，证诩之罪。
帝疑焉，谓程曰： 且出，吾方思之。
于是诩子顗与门生百余人，举幡候中常侍高梵车，叩头流血，诉言枉状。
梵乃入言之，防坐徙边，贾朗等六人或死或黜，即日赦出诩。
程复上书陈诩有大功，语甚切激。帝感悟，复征拜议郎。
数日，迁尚书仆射。
是时，长吏、二千石听百姓嫡罚者输赎，号为 义钱 ，托为贫人储，而守令因以聚敛。
诩上疏曰： 元年以来，贫百姓章言长吏受取百万以上者，匈匈不绝，谪罚吏人至数千万，而三公、剌史少所举奏。
寻永平、章和中，州郡以走卒钱给贷贫人。司空劾案，州及郡县皆坐免黜。
今宜遵前典，蠲除权制。
于是诏书下诩章，切责州郡。
谪罚输赎自此而止。
先是，宁阳主簿诣阙，诉其县令之枉，积六七岁不省。
主簿乃上书曰： 臣为陛下子，陛下为臣父。
translation: 
In the memorial, Zhang Fang complained in tears before the emperor, and Yu Xu was convicted and sent to Zuo School to do hard labor.
Zhang Fang insisted on killing him. Within two days, he was summoned four times.
The jailer advised Yu Xu to commit suicide, but Yu Xu said: "I would rather put him to death so that people far and near would know about it."
Eunuchs Sun Cheng, Zhang Xian and others knew that Yu Xu had been convicted on duty, so they successively submitted petitions to the emperor to receive them.
Sun Cheng said: When the emperor began to get along with his ministers, he often hated the treacherous ministers and knew that the treacherous ministers would harm the country.
Now that he is the emperor and he is doing this again, how can he be different from the previous emperor?
Yu Xu, the lieutenant of Sili School, was loyal to you and was arrested. Zhang Fang, Chang's attendant, was found guilty of embezzlement and framed Zhongliang instead.
Now the guest star is guarding Yulin, and there are treacherous ministers in the palace.
Zhang Fang should be arrested and sent to prison as soon as possible to prevent changes in the weather.
An edict was issued to release Yu Xu and return his seal and ribbon.
At this time, Zhang Fang was standing behind the emperor. Sun Cheng angrily scolded Zhang Fang and said: "Treacherous minister Zhang Fang, why don't you go down to the palace?"
Zhang Fang had no choice but to run into the east chamber.
Sun Cheng said: Your Majesty, arrest Zhang Fang quickly and don't let him plead with his mother.
The emperor asked all the ministers. Jia Lang, the minister, had always been on good terms with Zhang Fang, which proved that Yu Xu was guilty.
The emperor was a little suspicious and said to Sun Cheng: "I will go out temporarily, I still have to think about it."
So Yu Xu's son Yu Kai and more than a hundred students, holding flags, waited for Gao Fan's car to come, kowtow and bleed, and complained about Yu Xu's injustice.
Gao Fan then told the emperor that Zhang Fang was exiled to the border area for his crimes, and Jia Lang and other six people were either executed or deposed, and Yu Xu was released that day.
Sun Cheng also wrote a letter saying that Yu Xu had meritorious service and his words were generous. The emperor understood and worshiped Yu Xu as Yilang.
A few days later, he was promoted to a scholar.
At this time, the chief official and the two thousand stones used money to redeem the people who committed crimes, which was called "righteous money". They pretended to be saving for the poor, but the guards used it to embezzle.
Yu Xu Shangshu said: Since the first year of the year, the poor people have publicly exposed the officials who accepted more than one million yuan. There has been endless controversy over this, and tens of millions of officials have been relegated and punished, but the three officials and the governor rarely reported it.
Soon, during the Yongping and Zhanghe reigns, the prefectures and counties used money from pawns to lend money to the poor. Sikong investigated and punished him, and all the prefectures and counties were dismissed for the crime.
It is time to follow the rules and regulations of the past and abolish all expedients.
The edict approved Yu Xu's report. The state and county were severely criticized.
Exile, punishment, loss and redemption were banned from now on.
Previously, the chief clerk of Ningyang went to the court to complain that the county magistrate had violated the law, and ignored it for six or seven years.
The master's book wrote: I am your Majesty's son, and Your Majesty is your father.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
臣章百上，终不见省，臣岂可北诣单于以告怨乎？
帝大怒，持章示尚书，尚书遂劾以大逆。
诩驳之曰： 主簿所讼，乃君父之怨；百上不达，是有司之过。
愚蠢之人，不足多诛。
帝纳诩言，答之而已。
诩因谓诸尚书曰： 小人有怨，不远千里，断发刻肌，诣阙告诉，而不为理，岂臣下之义？
君与浊长吏何亲，而与怨人何仇乎？
闻者皆惭。
诩又上言： 台郎显职，仕之通阶。今或一郡七八，或一州无人。宜令均平，以厌天下之望。
及诸奏议，多见从用。
诩好刺举，无所回容，数以此忤权戚，遂九见谴考，三遭刑罚，而刚正之性，终老不屈。永和初，迁尚书令，以公事去官。朝廷思其忠，复征之，会卒。
临终，谓其子恭曰： 吾事君直道，行己无愧，所悔者为朝歌长时杀贼数百人，其中何能不有冤者。自此二十余年，家门不增一口，斯获罪于天也。
恭有俊才，官至上党太守。
傅燮字南容，北地灵州人也。
本字幼起，慕南容三复白珪，乃易字焉。
身长八尺，有威容。
少师事太尉刘宽。再举孝廉。
闻所举郡将丧，乃弃官行服。
后为护军司马，与左中郎将皇甫嵩俱讨贼张角。
燮素疾中官，既行，因上疏曰：臣闻天下之祸，不由于外，皆兴于内。
是故虞舜升朝，先除四凶，然后用十六相。明恶人不去，则善人无由进也。
今张角起于赵、魏，黄巾乱于六州。此皆衅发萧墙，而祸延四海者也。臣受戎任，奉辞伐罪，始到颍川，战无不克。
黄巾虽盛，不足为庙堂忧也。
translation: 
I have written hundreds of memorials, but in the end I ignored them. How can I go to the Xiongnu Chanyu to complain?
The emperor was furious and showed the memorial to the minister, who judged him to be a treasonous person.
Yu Xu retorted, saying: The chief secretary reported this to the emperor because his father resented him. It is Yousi's mistake to fail to reach the goal.
Stupid people are not enough to be punished.
The emperor took Yu Xu's advice and gave him a spanking.
Therefore, Yu Xu said to all the ministers: "A villain has a grudge. He traveled thousands of miles, cut off his hair and carved his muscles, and made up his mind to complain to the court. You ignored him. Isn't it in line with the righteousness of the ministers?"
What kinship do you have with those corrupt officials, and what hatred do you have against the haters?
I was so ashamed after hearing this.
Yu Xu said again: "Shang Shulang is an important position, the ladder of officialdom. Now some people have seven or eight people in a county, and some have no people in a state. They should be equalized to meet the expectations of the world."
Many of Yu Xu's memorials were mostly adopted.
This offended his relatives many times. He was reprimanded nine times and punished three times, but his upright character remained unyielding until old age. At the beginning of Yongyuan Dynasty, he was promoted to Shangshu Ling and dismissed due to official business. The imperial court missed his loyalty and recruited him again, but he happened to die.
On his deathbed, he said to Zi Yugong: I serve the court with integrity and selflessness, and I have no regrets in everything I do. What I regret is that as a Chao Ge, I killed hundreds of thieves for a long time. How could I not be unjust? Since then, there has not been a single person in the family for more than 20 years. This is because I have been punished by God!
Yu Gong was a talented person, and his official position was supreme as the Party Governor.
◆The biography of Fu Xie, whose courtesy name is Nanrong, was from Lingzhou County, Beidi County.
This character started at a young age, and I admired Nan Rong when he read the Book of Songs: Bai Wanggui's defilement can still be polished off, but what he said cannot be done.
As for the three repetitions, I asked myself to be cautious in my words and deeds, so I changed "Youqi" to Nanrong.
He is eight feet long and has a burly appearance. When he was young, he learned from Taiwei Liu Kuan and was promoted as filial and honest twice.
Hearing that the commander-in-chief who promoted him as Xiaolian died, he abandoned his official post to mourn.
Later, he was appointed as Sima of the Guard Army, and together with Zuo Zhonglang's general Huangfu Song, he attacked Zhang Jiao.
Fu Xie was usually the most evil eunuch. Before leaving, he said to Shangshu: I heard that the disasters of the country are not external, but all happen internally.
Therefore, when Yu Shun succeeded to the throne, he first eliminated the four evil spirits, and then appointed the sixteen prime ministers to show that if the evil people did not go away, the good people would have no way to come in.
Now Zhang Jiao started from Zhao and Wei, and the Yellow Turbans caused chaos in the six states. They all happened in the interior, and then the chaos spread all over the world. I was ordered to lead the troops to attack them. When I first arrived in Yingchuan, I was invincible.
Although the Yellow Turbans were powerful, they were not a cause for concern for the imperial court.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
臣之所惧，在于治水不自其源，末流弥增其广耳。
陛下仁德宽容，多所不忍，故阉竖弄权，忠臣不进。
诚使张角枭夷，黄巾变服，臣之所忧，甫益深耳。
何者？
夫邪正之人不宜共国，亦犹冰炭不可同器。
彼知正人之功显，而危亡之兆见，皆将巧辞饰说，共长虚伪。夫孝子疑于屡至，市虎成于三夫。
若不详察真伪，忠臣将复有杜邮之戮矣。陛下宜思虞舜四罪之举，速行谗佞放殛之诛，则善人思进，奸凶自息。
臣闻忠臣之事君，犹孝子之事父也。
子之事父，焉得不尽其情？
使臣身备鈇钺之戮，陛下少用其言，国之福也。
书奏，宦者赵忠见而忿恶。
及破张角，燮功多当封，忠诉谮之，灵帝犹识燮言，得不加罪，竟亦不封，以为安定都尉。
以疾免。
后拜议郎。
会西羌反，边章、韩遂作乱陇右，征发天下。
役赋无已。司徒崔烈以为宜弃凉州。
诏会公卿百官，烈坚执先议。
燮厉言曰： 斩司徒，天下乃安。
尚书郎杨赞奏燮廷辱大臣。
帝以问燮。
燮对曰：昔冒顿至逆也，樊哙为上将，愿得十万众横行匈奴中，愤激思奋，未失人臣之节，顾计当从与不耳，季布犹曰 哙可斩也。
今凉州天下要冲，国家籓卫。
高祖初兴，使郦商别定陇右；宗世拓境，列置四郡，议者以为断匈奴右臂。
今牧御失和，使一州叛逆，海内为之骚动，陛下卧不安寝。
烈为宰相，不念为国思所以弭之之策，乃欲割弃一方万里之土，臣窃惑之。
若使左衽之虏得居此地，士劲甲坚，因以为乱，此天下之至虑，社稷之深忧也。
若烈不知之，是极蔽也；知而故言，是不忠也。
帝以燮议。
由是朝廷重其方格，每公卿有缺，为众议所归。
translation: 
What worries me is that water management does not start from the source, causing the downstream flow to become wider and wider.
The emperor is benevolent and tolerant, but he is merciless in punishing bad people. Therefore, the eunuchs exercise great power, and loyal ministers cannot have any influence.
Zhang Jiao was truly eliminated and the Yellow Turbans surrendered, which made me even more worried.
Why?
Because evil people and upright people cannot be together, just as ice cubes and charcoal cannot be placed together in the same container.
All these illustrate the seriousness of rumors and rumors. If we don't examine the truth of the matter in detail, the incident of loyal ministers committing suicide like Bai Qi can also be seen today.
The emperor should think about Yu Shun's resolute treatment of the four villains, and quickly punish those bad guys who framed the traitors. In this way, the good people will come to the emperor's side, and the traitors will be eliminated.
I have heard that loyal ministers serve their monarch as filial sons serve their parents.
How can a son not serve his father wholeheartedly?
If I am executed by Yu Fuyue for this, it will be a blessing to the country if the emperor can accept a few words from me!
The eunuch Zhao Zhong was extremely angry after reading the book.
When Zhang Jiao was defeated, Fu Xie deserved to be knighted because of his many merits. Zhao Zhong framed him. Emperor Ling still remembered Fu Xie's words, so he was able to avoid the crime and finally appointed him as the captain of Anding.
Dismissed due to illness.
Later he was awarded the title of Yilang.
When the Xiqiang rebelled, Bian Zhang and Han Sui made trouble in Longyou, asking for money and people from the people endlessly.
Situ Cui Lie believed that Liangzhou should be abandoned.
The imperial edict met with hundreds of officials to discuss, but Cui Lie insisted on his opinion.
Fu Xie said sternly: If Situ is killed, the world will be safe.
Shangshu Lang Yang Zan reported that Fu Xie insulted ministers in the court.
Emperor Ling asked Fu Xie about this.
Fu Xie replied: "In the past, Maodun was a great rebel. Fan Kuai was the general. Please lead a hundred thousand people to rampage among the Xiongnu." Ji Bu was extremely angry and wanted to work hard. He did not lose the moral integrity of a minister. It was just a matter of whether his strategy would work or not. Ji Bu also said: "Fan Kuai can be killed."
Now Liangzhou is the center of the world and the country's screen.
When Emperor Gaozu first rose to prominence, he made Qing Shang the captain of Longxi Province, and designated the Northern Territory as his own. Emperor Wu opened up the territory and established the four counties of Wuwei, Jiuquan, Zhangye, and Dunhuang, and cut off the right arm of the Xiongnu.
Now the discord between officials and officials has caused rebellion in one state, causing turmoil in the country and making the emperor restless.
As the prime minister, Cui Lie didn't want to quell the rebellion for the country, but wanted to cede thousands of miles of land. I doubt this idea.
If the barbarians gain this territory, have strong soldiers and sophisticated weapons, and cause rebellion, this will be a great trouble for the world and a deep worry for the country!
If Cui Lie didn't know, it would be a great stupidity; if he knew and said so deliberately, it would be disloyal.
Emperor Ling adopted Fu Xie's opinion.
Because the imperial court highly valued Fu Xie's uprightness, when the minister was vacant, he was expected by everyone.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
顷之，赵忠为车骑将军，诏忠论讨黄巾之功，执金吾甄举等谓忠曰： 傅南容前在东军，有功不侯，故天下失望。
今将军亲当重任，宜进贤理屈，以副众心。
忠纳其言，遣弟城门校尉延致殷勤。
延谓燮曰： 南容少答我常侍，万户侯不足得也。
燮正色拒之曰： 遇与不遇，命也；有功不论，时也。
傅燮岂求私赏哉！
忠愈怀恨，然惮其名，不敢害。
权贵亦多疾之，是以不得留，出为汉阳太守。
初，郡将范津明知人，举燮孝廉。
及津为汉阳，与燮交代，合符而去，乡邦荣之。
津字文渊，南阳人。
燮善恤人，叛羌怀其恩化，并来降附，乃广开屯田，列置四十余营。
时，刺史耿鄙委任治中程球，球为通奸利，士人怨之。
中平四年，鄙率六郡兵讨金城贼王国、韩遂等。
燮知鄙失众，必败，谏曰：
使君统政日浅，人未知数。
孔子曰： 不教人战，是谓弃之。
今率不习之人，越大陇之阻，将十举十危，而贼闻大军将至，必万人一心。
边兵多勇，其锋难当，而新合之众，上下未和，万一内变，虽悔无及。
不若息军养德，明赏必罚。
贼得宽挺，必谓我怯，群恶争势，其离可必。
然后率已教之人，讨已离之贼，其功可坐而待也。
今不为万全之福，而就必危之祸，窃为使君不取。
鄙不从。
行至狄道，果有反者，先杀程球，次害鄙，贼遂进围汉阳。城中兵少粮尽，燮犹固守。
时，北地胡骑数千随贼攻郡，皆夙怀燮恩，共于城外叩头，求送燮归乡里。
translation: 
Soon, Zhao Zhong became the general of chariots and cavalry, and ordered Zhao Zhong to discuss his merits in the crusade against the Yellow Turbans. Zhijinwu Zhenju and others said to Zhao Zhong: Fu Nanrong was in the Eastern Army before. He had merits but was not granted a title. Everyone in the world was disappointed.
Now the general has the important task of advancing the wise and redressing grievances in order to conform to everyone's wishes.
Zhao Zhong accepted his words. He sent his younger brother Chengmen School Captain Zhao Yan to express his yearning.
Zhao Yan said to Fu Xie: "Nan Rong is a little bit polite and I am a regular servant, but Wanhu Hou is not enough for you!"
Fu Xie refused sternly and said: Whether a person succeeds or fails is determined by fate; merit without reward is caused by the times.
Do I, Fu Xie, still want a private reward?
Zhao Zhong was even more resentful, but he was too famous to dare to harm him.
There are also many powerful people who are jealous of him, so they are not allowed to stay in the court and become the governor of Hanyang.
At first, Fan Jin, the general of the county, had the knack of knowing people and promoted Fu Xie as Xiaolian.
Later, Fan Jin was appointed as the prefect of Hanyang. When Fu Xie left, Fan Jin went through the handover procedures with him. After passing the verification, he left. The country and the country were proud of them.
Fan Jin, courtesy name Wenyuan, was from Nanyang.
Fu Xie was good at sympathizing with people, and the rebellious Qiang people were moved by his kindness and enlightenment, and they all surrendered. He cleared the land and cultivated fields and set up more than forty camps to accommodate them.
At this time, the governor Geng Bi appointed Cheng Qiu to be in charge. Cheng Qiu sought personal gain for him and associated with traitors, and the soldiers hated him.
In the fourth year of Zhongping, Geng Bi led soldiers from six counties to conquer the Kingdom of Jincheng, Han Sui and others.
Fu Xie knew that Geng Bi had broken people's trust and must fail.
The admonishment said: The emperor has not been in power for a long time, and the people do not know how to educate him.
Confucius said: To make people fight without first teaching them is to abandon them.
Now he leads untrained men across the dangers of Dalong. There will be ten dangers and ten dangers. When the thieves hear that the army is coming, they will surely unite as one.
The border soldiers are brave and difficult to resist; the newly organized troops are not harmonious among the officers and soldiers. If internal changes occur, it will be too late to regret it.
It is better to let the army rest for a period of time, improve discipline, and strictly enforce rewards and punishments.
When the thieves learn that our army is lax, they must think that our army is cowardly, and they will surely fall apart due to their internal struggle for power.
Then lead the trained troops to defeat the disintegrating thieves, and then sit back and wait for victory to come.
Now if you don't seek to be foolproof and take a path that is bound to fail, I won't do it for you.
Geng Bi refused to listen.
When the troops arrived at Didao, there were indeed rebels. They killed Cheng Qiu first and then Geng Bi. The thieves then surrounded Hanyang. There were few soldiers in the city and no food, but Fu Xie still held on.
At this time, thousands of Hu cavalry from the north followed the bandits to attack Hanyang County. They all cherished Fu Xie's kindness for a long time. They kowtowed outside the city and asked to send Fu Xie back to his hometown.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
子幹年十三，从在官舍。
知燮性刚，有高义，恐不能屈志以免，进谏曰： 国家昏乱，遂令大人不容于朝。
今天下已叛，而兵不足自守，乡里羌胡先被恩德，欲令弃郡而归，愿必许之。
徐至乡里，率厉义徒，见有道而辅之，以济天下。
言未终，燮慨然而叹，呼幹小子曰： 别成，汝知吾必死邪？盖 圣达节，次守节 。
且殷纣之暴，伯夷不食周粟而死，仲尼称其贤。
今朝廷不甚殷纣，吾德亦岂绝伯夷？
世乱不能养浩然之志，食禄又欲避其难乎？
吾行何之，必死如此。
汝有才智，勉之勉之。
主簿杨会，吾之程婴也。
幹哽咽不能复言，左右皆泣下。
王国使故酒泉太守黄衍说燮曰： 成败之事，已可知矣。
先起，上有霸王之业，下成伊、吕之勋。
天下非复汉有，府君宁有意为吾属师乎？
燮案剑叱衍曰： 若剖符之臣，反为贼说邪！
遂麾左右进兵，临阵战殁。
谥曰壮节侯。幹知名，位至扶风太守。
盖勋字元固，敦煌广至人也。
家世二千石。
初举孝廉，为汉阳长史。
时，武威太守倚恃权势，恣行贪横，从事武都苏正和案致其罪。
凉州刺史梁鹄畏惧贵戚，欲杀正和以免其负，乃访之于勋。
勋素与正和有仇，或劝勋可因此报隙。
勋曰： 不可。
谋事杀良，非忠也；乘人之危，非仁也。
乃谏鹄曰： 夫绁食鹰鸢欲其鸷，鸷而亨之，将何用哉？
鹄从其言。
translation: 
His son Fu Gan was only thirteen years old and lived in an official residence from his father.
Knowing that his father had an upright temperament and awe-inspiring righteousness, I was afraid that he would not bend his will and avoid death. He advised his father: "The country is in chaos, which makes it difficult for you to be in the court."
Now that the world has rebelled, your troops are not strong enough to defend themselves. The Qiang and Hu people in the countryside have received your kindness in the past. They want you to abandon the county and return to your hometown. I hope you will agree to them.
Return to the village, command and train the rebellious Qiang and Hu, meet virtuous people, mentor them, and save the world.
Before he finished speaking, Fu Xie sighed excitedly, called Fu Qian by his nickname and said: Don't do it, do you know that I will definitely die? "Zuo Zhuan" says: The Shengda Festival is the second Shou Festival.
Generally speaking, it is not easy to understand the principles and follow the rules naturally, but it can be done by observing the rules. Moreover, the Shang Dynasty was tyrannical, and Boyi died without eating Zhou millet. Confucius said that he was a wise man in ancient times.
Now the imperial court is no worse than Shang Zhou, how can I surpass Boyi in virtue?
Chaos in the world cannot nourish Haoran's righteousness. I usually receive a salary from the state, but when there is a war, I want to run away again!
Where can I go? Must die here.
You have talent, give it a try! Encourage it!
Chief Registrar Yang Hui is my Cheng Ying, you can trust him.
Fu Gan choked up and could no longer speak, and everyone around him was in tears.
Huang Yan, the governor of Jiuquan, the first envoy of the kingdom, advised Fu Xie: "The situation of success or failure is already clear as the palm of my hand."
The first to raise an army was to achieve the great deeds of an overlord, and to the bottom was the meritorious deeds of Yi Yin and Lu Shang.
The world is no longer the world of the Han Dynasty. Does Mr. Fu mean to be our teacher?
Fu Xie pressed his sword and cursed Huang Yan: "You were once a minister holding the emperor's talisman, but you spoke for a thief?"
He commanded the troops to march from left to right and died in battle. His posthumous title is Zhuangjiehou.
Fu Qian was well-known and had reached the rank of Governor of Fufeng.
◆In the biography of Gai Xun, Gai Xun was named Yuan Gu and was a native of Guangzhi County, Dunhuang County.
From generation to generation, the family is worth two thousand stones.
He was initially elected as Xiaolian and appointed as the chief historian of Hanyang.
At this time, the prefect of Wuwei relied on powerful officials, was corrupt, violent, and had no scruples, and was engaged in Wudu Su Zhenghe's investigation of his crimes.
Liangzhou Governor Liang Hu was afraid of his noble relatives and wanted to kill Su Zhenghe to avoid the guilt of Wuwei Prefect, so he asked Gai Xun for advice.
Gai Xun usually had a grudge against Su Zhenghe, and some people advised Gai Xun to take revenge on him.
Gai Xun said: No.
It is unfaithful to kill a good person because of something; it is unkind to take advantage of others when they are in danger to attack them.
So he admonished Liang Hu and said: "I originally wanted to eat the eagle and the kite because I wanted to get the bird of prey. Now that I have the bird of prey and I cook and kill it, what's the use?"
Liang Hu accepted his words.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
正和喜于得免，而诣勋求谢。
勋不见，曰： 吾为梁使君谋，不为苏正和也。
怨之如初。
中平元年，北地羌胡与边章等寇乱陇右，刺史左昌因军兴新盗数千万。
勋固谏，昌怒，乃使勋别屯阿阳以拒贼锋，欲因军事罪之，而勋数有战功。
边章等遂攻金城，杀郡守陈懿，勋劝昌救之，不从。
边章等进围昌于冀，昌惧而召勋。
勋初与从事辛曾、孔常俱屯阿阳，及昌檄到，曾等疑不肯赴。
勋怒曰： 昔庄贾后期，穰苴奋剑。
今之从事，岂重于古之监军哉！
曾等惧而从之。
勋即率兵救昌。
到，乃诮让章等，责以背叛之罪。
皆曰： 左使君若早从君言，以兵临我，庶可自改。今罪已重，不得降也。
乃解围而去。
昌坐断盗征，以扶风宋枭代之。
枭患多寇叛，谓勋曰： 凉州寡于学术，故屡致反暴。
今欲多写《孝经》，令家家习之，庶或使人知义。
勋谏曰： 昔太公封齐，崔杼杀君；伯禽侯鲁，庆父篡位。
此二国岂乏学者？
今不急静难之术，遽为非常之事，既足结怨一州，又当取笑朝廷，勋不知其可也。
枭不从，遂奏行之。果被诏书诘责，坐以虚慢征。
时，叛羌围护羌校尉夏育于畜官，勋与州郡合兵救育，至狐，为羌所破。
勋收余众百余人，为鱼丽之陈。
羌精骑夹攻之急，士卒多死。
勋被三创，坚不动，乃指木表曰： 必尸我于此。
translation: 
Su Zhenghe was happy that he was saved from being killed and ran to Gai Xun to thank him.
Gai Xun refused to receive him and said, "I am offering advice for Liang Shijun, not for Su Zhenghe."
He still hates Su Zhenghe as before.
In the first year of Zhongping, the Qiang Hu and Bian Zhang from the north invaded Longyou, and the governor Zuo Chang cut off tens of millions due to the opportunity of the war.
Gai Xun strongly remonstrated, but Zuo Chang became angry, so he ordered Gai Xun to station in Ayang to resist the bandit's elite troops, hoping to use military force to incriminate him. Gai Xun had many military exploits.
Bian Zhang and others attacked Jincheng and killed the governor Chen Yi. Gai Xun persuaded Zuo Chang to rescue him.
Zuo Chang didn't listen. Bian Zhang and others then surrounded Zuo Chang in Ji. Zuo Chang was afraid and asked Gai Xun to go.
Gai Xun first stationed himself in Ayang with Xin Zeng and Kong Chang. When Zuo Chang's urgent military message arrived, Xin Zeng and Kong Chang hesitated and refused to go.
Gai Xun said angrily: "In the past, Zhuang Jia supervised Sima Rangju's army. Because he did not arrive on time, Rangzhi acted according to military law and killed him.
Is what we are doing now more valuable than overseeing the army in ancient times?
Xin Zeng and others were afraid and had no choice but to listen to Gai Xun.
Gai Xun immediately mobilized his troops to rescue Zuo Chang.
When he arrived in Ji, he accused Bian Zhang and others of treason.
They all said: If Ambassador Zuo had listened to you and led troops to attack me, I would have been able to correct my evil ways. Now my sin is too serious and I cannot surrender!
So he withdrew the siege and left.
Zuo Chang was summoned for the crime of cutting and intercepting, and he was replaced by Fufeng Song Xiao.
Song Xiao suffered from the invasion and rebellion of foreign tribes in the border areas, and told Gai Xun: Liangzhou has repeatedly resisted riots because of its backward culture and lack of scholars.
Now I want to write more "The Classic of Filial Piety" so that every household can learn it. This may help people know etiquette and justice.
Gai Xun remonstrated: In the past, when the Grand Duke was granted the title of Qi, Cui Zhu killed Duke Zhuang of Qi, Bo Qin was granted the title of Lu, and Qing's father attacked and killed Duke Min of Lu.
Are there still a shortage of scholars in these two countries?
Don't rush to find a solution to the problem now. Doing such unrealistic things can not only make a state angry, but also make the court laugh. I don't know this is a good idea.
Song Xiao refused to listen to him and went to the court to implement it. As expected, Gai Xun's words were not followed, so he was criticized by the imperial edict and summoned for being guilty of being conceited.
At this time, the rebel Qiang surrounded Xia Yu, the Qiang guard captain. Gai Xun and the prefectures and counties jointly sent troops to rescue Xia Yu, but were defeated by the Qiang soldiers when they arrived in Hu.
Gai Xun gathered more than a hundred defeated soldiers to form Yuli's formation.
The elite Qiang cavalry attacked from both sides, and many soldiers died.
Gai Xun was injured in three places, but he stood firm, pointed at the wooden sign and said: "Kill me here."


Chunk 9: 
original: 
句就种羌滇吾素为勋所厚，乃以兵扞众曰： 盖长史贤人，汝曹杀之者为负天。
勋仰骂曰： 死反虏，汝何知，促来杀我！
众相视而惊。
滇吾下马与勋，勋不肯上，遂为贼所执。
羌戎服其义勇，不敢加害，送还汉阳。
后刺史杨雍即表勋领汉阳太守。
时人饥，相渔食，勋调谷禀之，先出家粮以率众，存活者千余人。
后去官，征拜讨虏校尉。
灵帝召见，问： 天下何苦而反乱如此？
勋曰： 幸臣子弟扰之。
时宦者上军校尉蹇硕在坐，帝顾问硕，硕惧，不知所对，而以此恨勋。
帝又谓勋曰： 吾已陈师于平乐观，多出中藏财物以饵士，何如？
勋曰： 臣闻 先王燿德不观兵 。
今寇在远而设近陈，不足昭果毅，秪黩武耳。 帝曰： 善。
恨见君晚，群臣初无是言也。
勋时与宗正刘虞、佐军校尉袁绍同典禁兵。
勋谓虞、绍曰： 吾仍见上，上甚聪明，但拥蔽于左右耳。
若共并力诛嬖幸，然后征拔英俊，以兴汉室，功遂身退，岂不快乎！
虞、绍亦素有谋，因相连结，未及发，而司隶校尉张温举勋为京兆尹。
帝方欲延接勋，而蹇硕等心惮之，并劝从温奏，遂拜京兆尹。
时，长安令杨党，父为中常侍，恃势贪放，勋案得其臧千余万。
贵戚咸为之请，勋不听，具以事闻，并连党父，有诏穷案，威震京师。
时小黄门京兆高望为尚药监，幸于皇太子，太子因蹇硕属望子进为孝廉，勋不肯用。
或曰： 皇太子副主，望其所爱，硕帝之宠臣，而子违之，所谓三怨成府者也。
勋曰： 选贤所以报国也，非贤不举，死亦何悔！
勋虽在外，每军国密事，帝常手诏问之。
数加赏赐，甚见亲信，在朝臣右。
translation: 
In the sentence, I planted Qiang Dianwu. I had received Gai Xun's kindness on weekdays, so I stopped everyone with weapons and said: Gai Changshi is a wise man. Killing him is called deceiving the sky.
Gai Xun raised his head and cursed: "You are a rebel, what do you know?" Come and kill me!
The soldiers looked at me and I looked at you, shocked.
Dian Wu jumped off his horse and asked Gai Xun to mount his horse. Gai Xun refused and was captured by the bandit soldiers.
Qiang Rong admired Gai Xun's righteousness. He was brave enough to conquer the three armies and did not dare to harm him, so he was sent back to Hanyang.
Later, the governor Yang Yong recommended Gai Xun to concurrently serve as the prefect of Hanyang.
At that time, there was a famine and people were cannibalizing. Gai Xun allocated food to relieve the famine. He first took out his own food to set an example and saved more than a thousand hungry people.
Later, he resigned from the official position and was conscripted as the captain of the school to fight against the captives.
Emperor Ling summoned him and asked: Why is the world so rebellious?
Gai Xun said: It was caused by the eunuch's children.
At this time, Jian Shuo, the eunuch and commander of the military academy, was standing by. Emperor Ling turned back to Jian Shuo. Jian Shuo was afraid and didn't know how to persuade Gai Xun, so he hated Gai Xun.
Emperor Ling said to Gai Xun again: "I have concentrated the troops in Pingtang. How about taking out more of the hidden treasures and giving them to the soldiers?"
Gai Xun said: I heard that the late king Mingde did not show troops.
Now the enemy is far away and arrayed nearby. This is not enough to show the country's courage and determination. It is just a waste of force. Emperor Ling said: Very good.
It's a pity that it's too late to see you. My ministers have never said such things!
At that time, Gai Xun, Zong Zheng, Liu Yu, and Assistant Military Colonel Yuan Shao were in charge of the emperor's security forces.
Gai Xun said to Liu Yu and Yuan Shao: I have seen the emperor many times. The emperor is very smart, but he is just deceived by the left and right.
If everyone worked together to kill the eunuchs, recruit and select handsome talents, revive the Han Dynasty, and retire with great success, wouldn't it be a great thing?
Liu Yu and Yuan Shao had also discussed this matter on weekdays, so they contacted each other. Before they could take action, Sili Colonel Zhang Wen recommended Gai Xun to serve as Jing Zhaoyin.
Emperor Ling still wanted to receive him. Jian Shuo and others were afraid of Gai Xun, so they all persuaded the emperor to approve Zhang Wen's memorial, so Gai Xun was appointed as Jing Zhaoyin.
At that time, Chang'an ordered Yang Dang, whose father was a regular servant. Relying on his father's power, he engaged in corruption and misbehavior. Gai Xun found out that Yang Dang had embezzled more than tens of millions.
The noble relatives all interceded for him, but Gai Xun refused to listen. He reported all the facts to the emperor, and involved Yang Dang's father. He ordered strict execution, and Gai Xun was powerful in the capital.
At that time, Xiaohuangmen Jingzhao was highly regarded as the Shang Pharmacy Supervisor and was favored by the crown prince. Because of Jian Shuo's request, the crown prince asked Gai Xun to promote Gao Xun's highly respected son Gao Jin as Xiaolian, but Gai Xun refused.
Some people say: The Crown Prince is the deputy lord and the heir to the throne, Gao Wang is the Crown Prince's favorite, and Jian Shuo is the Emperor's favorite, but you are unwilling to do this good thing. As the saying goes, "Three grudges make a house." Three grudges gather together. Aren't you afraid?
Gai Xun said: "Electing worthy people to be filial and honest is to serve the country. If you are not a worthy person, even if you don't elect them, you will not regret it even if you die!"
Although Gai Xun was a local official and had military and state secrets, Emperor Ling often issued edicts to ask him.
He received many rewards and trusted him very much. No other minister in the court could compare with him.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
及帝崩，董卓废少帝，杀何太后，勋与书曰： 昔伊尹、霍光权以立功，犹可寒心，足下小丑，何以终此？
贺者在门，吊者在庐，可不慎哉！
卓得书，意甚惮之。
征为议郎。
时，左将军皇甫嵩精兵三万屯扶风，勋密相要结，将以讨卓。
会嵩亦被征，勋以众弱不能独立，遂并还京师。
自公卿以下，莫不卑下于卓，唯勋长揖争礼，见者皆为失色。
卓问司徒王允曰： 欲得快司隶校尉。谁可作者？
允曰： 唯有盖京兆耳。
卓曰： 此人明智有余，然不可假以雄职。
乃以为越骑校尉。
卓又不欲令久典禁兵，复出为颍川太守。
未及至郡，征还京师。
时，河南尹朱俊为卓陈军事。
卓折俊曰： 我百战百胜，决之于心，卿勿妄说，且污我刀。
勋曰： 昔武丁之明，犹求箴谏，况如卿者，而欲杜人之口乎？
卓曰： 戏之耳。
勋曰： 不闻怒言可以为戏？
卓乃谢俊。
勋虽强直不屈，而内厌于卓，不得意，疽发背卒，时年五十一。
遗令勿受卓赙赠，卓欲外示宽容，表赐东园秘器帽襚，送之如礼。
葬于安陵。
子顺，官至永阳太守。
臧洪字子源，广陵射阳人也。
父旻，有干事才。
熹平元年，会稽妖贼许昭起兵句章，自称 大将军 ，立其父生为越王，攻破城邑，众以万数。
拜旻扬州刺史。
旻率丹阳太守陈夤击昭，破之。
昭遂复更屯结，大为人患。
旻等进兵。连战三年，破平之，获昭父子，斩首数千级。
迁旻为使匈奴中郎将。
洪年十五，以父功拜童子郎，知名太学。
洪体貌魁梧，有异姿。
举孝廉，补即丘长。
中平末，弃官还家，太守张超请为功曹。
时，董卓弑帝，图危社稷。
洪说超曰： 明府历世受恩，兄弟并据大郡。今王室将危，贼臣虎视，此诚义士效命之秋也。
translation: 
After the death of Emperor Ling, Dong Zhuo deposed the young emperor and killed the Queen Mother He. Gai Xun wrote to Dong Zhuo: In the past, Yi Yin banished Taijia and welcomed Taijia back to the throne three years later. Huo Guang welcomed Liu Zhi, the king of Changyi, and deposed Liu Zhi because of his promiscuity and established Emperor Xuan.
Congratulations. The mourners have entered your house. Isn't it worth being careful?
Dong Zhuo accepted the letter and was mentally afraid of him.
Gaixun was appointed as Yilang.
At this time, General Huangfu Song of the Left had 30,000 elite troops stationed in Fufeng. Gai Xun secretly planned with him to prepare for a crusade against Dong Zhuo.
When Huangfu Song was also recruited, Gai Xun believed that his troops were too weak to act independently, so he returned to the capital with Huangfu Song.
There was no one among the officials from Gongqing on down who did not bow to Dong Zhuo. Only Gai Xun bowed his head and resisted Dong Zhuo. Those who saw him turned pale with fright.
Dong Zhuo asked Situ Wang Yun: If you want to get a capable Sili captain, who can do the job?
Wang Yun said: Only Gai Jingzhao.
Dong Zhuo said: This person is wise, but he cannot hold such a confidential position.
So he was appointed as the captain of the Yue Cavalry School.
Dong Zhuo did not want him to command the imperial security forces for a long time, so he appointed him as the prefect of Yingchuan.
Before he arrived at the county, he was called back to the capital.
At this time, Henan Yin Zhu Genjun was planning military affairs for Dong Zhuo.
Dong Zhuo rebuked Zhu Quanjun and said: I am victorious in every battle and I am dedicated to my affairs. Don't talk nonsense, even my knife will get dirty.
Gai Xun said: In the past, a shrewd emperor like Wu Ding still asked for advice from others. He said to Fu Shuo: Enlightenment is the heart, and my heart is fertile.
Dong Zhuo said: Just kidding.
Gai Xun said: I have never heard that the angry curse can be said to be a joke.
Dong Zhuo then apologized to Zhu Quanjun.
Although Gai Xun was strong and unyielding, he hated Dong Zhuo in his heart. He was dissatisfied and died of gangrene. Year fifty-one.
The will does not accept Dong Zhuo's funeral gifts. Dong Zhuo wanted to pretend to be tolerant and magnanimous, so he asked Dongyuan to give him the secret weapon of Dongyuan, chariots, horses and silk, as a gift to help him survive and die.
Buried in Anling.
His son Gaishun was promoted to prefect of Yongyang.
◆Zang Hongchuan, whose courtesy name is Ziyuan, was born in Sheyang County, Guangling County.
Father Zang Min is talented.
In the first year of Xiping, Xu Zhao, a monster thief from Kuaiji, raised troops and called himself a general. He appointed his father Xu Sheng as the king of Yue. He conquered the city and captured tens of thousands of people.
The imperial court appointed Zang as the governor of Yangzhou.
Zang Min led Chen Wei, the governor of Danyang, to defeat Xu Zhao.
Xu Zhao still gathered his troops to harm the people.
Zang Min and others sent troops to conquer and fought for three years before finally pacifying Xu Zhao, capturing Xu Zhao and his son, and killing thousands of people.
Zang Min was promoted to be the envoy to the Xiongnu Zhonglang General.
In the fifteenth year of Zang Hong's year, because of his father's contribution to the country, he was appointed Dong Zilang, who was famous in the Imperial Academy.
His physical appearance is different from ordinary people.
He was promoted to be filial and honest, and he was appointed as a complement to Lang Qiuchang.
At the end of Zhongping Dynasty, he resigned and returned home. The prefect Zhang Chao asked him to be a meritorious official.
At this time, Dong Zhuo killed the emperor and wanted to seize the Han Dynasty.
Zang Hong said that Zhang Chao said: The prefect has been favored by the imperial court for generations, and his brothers have all served as high counties. Now the royal family is in danger, and thieves and ministers are watching. This is really the time for those who are loyal to the country to serve.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
今郡境尚全，吏人殷富，若动桴鼓，可得二万人。以此诛除国贼，为天下唱义，不亦宜乎！
超然其言，与洪西至陈留，见兄邈计事。
邈先谓超曰： 闻弟为郡，委政臧洪，洪者何如人？
超曰： 臧洪海内奇士，才略智数不比于超矣。
邈即引洪与语，大异之。
乃使诣兗州刺史刘岱、豫州刺史孔亻由，遂皆相善。
邈既先有谋约，会超至，定议，乃与诸牧守大会酸枣。
设坛场，将盟，既而更相辞让，莫敢先登，咸共推洪。
洪乃摄衣升坛，操血而盟曰： 汉室不幸，皇纲失统，贼臣董卓，乘衅纵害，祸加至尊，毒流百姓。
大惧沦丧社稷，剪覆四海。
兗州刺史岱、豫州刺史亻由、陈留太守邈、东郡太守瑁、广陵太守超等，纠合义兵，并赴国难。
凡我同盟，齐心一力，以致臣节，陨首丧元，必无二志。
有渝此盟，俾坠其命，无克遗育。
皇天后土，祖宗明灵，实皆鉴之。
洪辞气慷慨，闻其言者，无不激扬。
自是之后，诸军各怀迟疑，莫适先进，遂使粮储单竭，兵众乖散。
时，讨虏校尉公孙瓚与大司马刘虞有隙，超乃遣洪诣虞，共谋其难。行至河间而值幽、冀交兵，行涂阻绝，因寓于袁绍。
绍见洪，甚奇之，与结友好，以洪领青州刺史。
前刺史焦和好立虚誉，能清谈。
时黄巾群贼处处飙起，而青部殷实，军革尚众。
和欲与诸同盟西赴京师，未及得行。而贼已屠城邑。
和不理戎警，但坐列巫史，萗祷群神。
又恐贼乘冻而过，命多作陷冰丸，以投于河。
众遂溃散，和亦病卒。
洪收抚离叛，百姓复安。
在事二年，袁绍惮其能，徙为东郡太守，都东武阳。
时曹操围张超于雍丘，甚危急。
超谓军吏曰： 今日之事，唯有臧洪必来救我。
或曰： 袁、曹方穆，而洪为绍所用，恐不能败好远来，违福取祸。
超曰： 子源天下义士，终非背本者也，或见制强力，不相及耳。
洪始闻超围，乃徒跣号泣，并勒所领，将赴其难。
自以众弱，以绍请兵，而绍竟不听之，超城遂陷，张氏族灭。
洪由是怨绍，绝不与通。
绍兴兵围之，历年不下，使洪邑人陈琳以书譬洪，示其祸福，责以恩义。
洪答曰：隔阔相思，发于寤寐。
相去步武，而趋舍异规，其为怆恨，胡可胜言！
translation: 
Now that the county is still intact and the people are prosperous, if the war drums sound, we can gather 20,000 people and lead them to kill the national traitors and hold high the flag of righteousness for the world. Wouldn't it be great?
Zhang Chao agreed with his opinion and went to Chenliu with Zang Hongxi to discuss with his brother Zhang Miao.
Zhang Miao first said to Zhang Chao: I heard that you are a prefect and leave government affairs to Zang Hong. What kind of person is Zang Hong?
Zhang Chao said: Zang Hong is a strange man in the country. He is more talented and resourceful than me.
Zhang Miao immediately talked to Zang Hong and greatly appreciated him.
He sent Zang Hong to see Liu Dai, the governor of Yanzhou, and Kong Danyou, the governor of Yuzhou, and they both became close friends with each other.
Zhang Miao originally had an agreement. When Zhang Chao arrived, he made the decision, so he held a meeting with the herdsmen in Suanzao.
They set up a altar and prepared to make an alliance, but they gave in to each other. No one dared to go first, and everyone recommended Zang Hong.
Zang Hong then raised his clothes to the altar, expressed his blood and made an alliance, saying: The Han Dynasty was unlucky, and the rules and regulations of the court were in chaos. The traitor Dong Zhuo took the opportunity to cause harm, and the disaster fell on the emperor and poisoned the people.
The most terrifying thing is that the Han Dynasty fell and the country was ruined.
Liu Dai, the governor of Yanzhou, Kong Qianyou, the governor of Yuzhou, Zhang Miao, the governor of Chenliu, Qiao Mao, the governor of Dongjun, Zhang Chao, the governor of Guangling, etc., gathered volunteers to fight against the national calamity.
All those who are in our alliance will work together to fulfill the loyalty of our ministers and kill their heads as they please without any second thought.
If he violates the oath, he will die and die without any descendants.
The emperor, the queen, the earth, the ancestors and the gods all learn from each other.
Zang Hong's poems were so passionate that everyone who listened to them got excited.
From then on, each army hesitated, and no one dared to go first, resulting in insufficient military supplies and the disintegration of the soldiers.
At this time, Gongsun Zan, the commander-in-chief of the imperial army, had a disagreement with Liu Yu, the commander-in-chief. Zhang Chao sent Zang Hong to find Liu Yu to discuss the plan to defeat the bandits. When they walked to the river, they encountered a war between You and Ji, and the road was blocked, so they went to Yuan Shao's place.
Yuan Shao met Zang Hong and admired his talent. He became friends with Zang Hong and asked Zang Hong to act as the governor of Qingzhou.
The former governor, Jiao He, had a false reputation and was a master of empty words.
At this time, yellow scarf thieves were scurrying everywhere, and the people in Qingzhou were rich and had many troops and equipment.
Jiao He wanted to go to the capital with various allies, but before he left, the Yellow Turban thieves had already arrived, conquered the city and massacred the people.
Jiao He didn't know anything about military affairs, so he just invited the witch Zhu Shi to his house to pray for God's blessing.
He was also afraid that yellow turban thieves would cross the river during the freezing period, so he ordered many ice-trap pills to be made and placed in the river.
His tribe was disbanded and Jiao He also died of illness.
Zang Hong gathered together to comfort the scattered tribes, and the people were at peace.
In the second year of his reign, Yuan Shao was afraid of his incompetence and appointed him as the prefect of Dongjun, with his capital in Dongwuyang.
At this time, Cao Cao surrounded Zhang Chao in Yongqiu, and the situation was very dangerous.
Zhang Chao said to the soldiers: Zang Hong is the only one who will come to save me today.
Some people say: Yuan Shao and Cao Cao are getting along well, and Zang Hong is Yuan Shao's man. I'm afraid Zang Hong will not come far away, and he will bring disaster instead of good fortune.
Zhang Chao said: Ziyuan is a righteous man in the world and will never deviate from his original aspirations. He may be held hostage by force, but there is nothing we can do!
Zang Hong began to hear that Zhang Chao was surrounded, cried barefoot, and prepared his troops to rescue Zhang Chao.
Thinking that his troops were too weak, he asked Yuan Shao for troops, but Yuan Shao refused. Zhang Chao's defense was breached and Zhang Chao's entire clan was killed.
Zang Hong resented Yuan Shao and severed ties with him.
Yuan Shao sent troops to surround Zang Hong, but could not capture it after many years. Yuan Shao sent Zang Hong to write a letter to Zang Hong from Chen Lin, a county resident, explaining the blessings and misfortunes to Zang Hong, and blaming each other with personal kindness and national justice.
Zang Hong replied: Missing each other after farewell often occurs when we are asleep.
We are not far apart, but each of us has taken a different path, and each of us has a different mood. How can we describe it in just one or two sentences?


Chunk 12: 
original: 
前日不遗，比辱雅况，述叙祸福，公私切至。
以子之才，穷该典籍，岂将暗于大道，不达余趣哉？
是以损弃翰墨，一无所酬，亦冀遥忖褊心，粗识鄙性。
重获来命，援引纷纭，虽欲无对，而义笃其言。
仆小人也，本乏志用，中因行役，特蒙倾盖，恩深分厚，遂窃大州，宁乐今日自还接刃乎？
每登城临兵，观主人之旗鼓，瞻望帐幄，感故友人周旋，抚弦搦矢，不觉涕流之覆面也。
何者？
自以辅佐主人，无以为悔；主人相接，过绝等伦。
受任之初，志同大事，埽清寇逆，共尊王室。
岂悟本州被侵，郡将遘厄，请师见拒，辞行被拘，使洪故君，遂至沦灭。
区区微节，无所获申，岂得复全交友之道，重亏忠孝之名乎？
所以忍悲挥戈，收泪告绝。
若使主人少垂古人忠恕之情，来者侧席，去者克己，则仆抗季札之志，不为今日之战矣。
昔张景明登坛喢血，奉辞奔走，卒使韩牧让印，主人得地。
后但以拜章朝主，赐爵获传之故，不蒙观过之贷，而受夷灭之祸。
吕奉先讨卓来奔，请兵不获，告去何罪，复见斫刺。
刘子璜奉使逾时，辞不获命，畏君怀亲，以诈求归，可谓有志忠孝，无损霸道，亦复僵尸麾下，不蒙亏除。
慕进者蒙荣，违意者被戮，此乃主人之利，非游士之愿也。
是以鉴戒前人，守死穷城，亦以君子之违，不适敌国故也。
足下当见久围不解，救兵未至，感婚姻之义，推平生之好，以为屈节而苟生，胜守义而倾覆也。
translation: 
A few days ago, I promised you that I would never give up, and I sent you frequent letters, describing the good and bad fortunes, gains and losses, and public and personal friendships, which were the most cordial.
How could a talented person like you, Botong Classic, be so secretive as to be ignorant of my aspirations?
Therefore, I did not reply to you. I also wanted you to understand my character from a distance.
Recently I received a handwritten letter from you, which was quoted a lot. Although I don’t want to reply, you said it sincerely and I shouldn’t ignore it rashly.
I am a villain, with no great ambitions. Because I was serving abroad, I was acquainted with Duke Yuan. I was deeply gracious and affectionate, and was able to seize the big state. Who is willing to go back and be slaughtered by myself today?
Every time I went to the city for military parade, I saw Yuan Gong's flags and drums, looked at Yuan Gong's tent in the distance, and the old friend's repeated dealings, I was even more excited. I held the string and pointed the arrow, and burst into tears!
Why?
I personally feel that I have no regrets in assisting Mr. Yuan. Mr. Yuan treated me much better than he treated his peers.
When they were first appointed, they were all focused on national affairs: clearing out the rebellion of foreign invaders and jointly supporting the royal family.
Unexpectedly, the state was invaded and the county general was in trouble. I asked Yuan Gong for more troops, but he was rejected. I resigned and was detained. My old leader was exterminated because of this.
I have such a small selfishness and have not received sympathy. How can I resume my friendship and seriously damage my reputation of loyalty and filial piety?
So I waved my hand with sorrow, wiped away my tears and said goodbye to him.
If Mr. Yuan is a little bit loyal and forgiving, and greets you at the side table when he comes, but restrains himself and blames himself when he leaves, then I will support Jizha's ambition to escape from the throne, and we will not fight today.
Once upon a time, Zhang Jingming ascended the throne and pledged his blood as an alliance, and went back and forth with letters. Finally, he made Han Fu give up his seal, and Yuan Gong gained control of Jizhou.
Later, Zhang Jingming was destroyed just because he worshiped the leader of the Zhang Dynasty and was given a title and passed down the throne. He was not given a chance to change his ways and was destroyed.
Lu Feng first attacked Dong Zhuo and came to ask for help from Yuan Gong. He refused to send troops and said goodbye and returned to Luoyang. What crime did he commit?
But Duke Yuan actually sent troops to kill him. Liu Zihuang was ordered to go on an envoy, but his request to resign his mission was not approved after the time limit was exceeded. He was afraid of the emperor and cherished his relatives, so he used deception to seek return. It can be said that he was determined to be loyal and filial, but not overbearing. He was also killed without any reduction.
The officer who wanted to be promoted was killed in violation of his will. This was the benefit of Duke Yuan, not the wish of the wanderer.
Therefore, in the past, as a warning, sticking to a poor city was nothing more than a gentleman fleeing and not going to the enemy's country.
I have seen the siege for a long time, but there is no relief, and the reinforcements have not arrived. I feel the love of marriage, and by extension my lifelong friendship, I think it is better to live under the righteousness than to die upholding the righteousness.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
昔晏婴不降志于白刃，南史不曲笔以求存，故身传图象，名垂后世。
况仆据金城之固，驱士人之力，散三年之畜以为一年之资，匡困补乏，以悦天下，何图筑室反耕哉？
但惧秋风扬尘，伯珪马首南向，张扬、飞燕旅力作难，北鄙将告倒悬之急，股肱奏乞归之记耳。
主人当鉴戒曹辈，反旌退师，何宜久辱盛怒，暴威于吾城之下哉！
足下讥吾恃黑山以为救，独不念黄巾之合从邪？
昔高祖取彭越于巨野，光武创基兆于绿林，卒能龙飞受命，中兴帝业。
苟可辅主兴化，夫何嫌哉！
况仆亲奉玺书，与之从事！
足下徼利于境外，臧洪投命于君亲；吾子托身于盟主，臧洪策名于长安。
子谓余身死而名灭，仆亦笑子生死而无闻焉。本同末离，怒力努力，夫复何言！
绍见洪书，知无降意，增兵急攻。
城中粮尽，外无援救，洪自度不免，呼吏士谓曰： 袁绍无道，所图不轨，且不救洪郡将，洪于大义，不得不死。
念诸君无事，空与此祸，可先城未破，将妻子出。
将吏皆垂泣曰： 明府之于袁氏，本无怨隙，今为郡将之故，自致危困，吏人何忍当舍明府去也？
初尚掘鼠，煮筋角，后无所复食，主簿启内厨米三斗，请稍为饘粥，洪曰： 何能独甘此邪？
使为薄糜，遍班士众。
又杀其爱妾，以食兵将。
兵将咸流涕，无能仰视。
男女七八十人相枕而死，莫有离叛。
城陷，生执洪。
绍盛帷慢，大会诸将见洪。
谓曰： 臧洪何相负若是！
今日服未？
洪据地瞋目曰 诸袁事汉，四世五公，可谓受恩。今王室衰弱，无扶翼之意，而欲因际会，觖望非冀，多杀忠良，以立奸威。
translation: 
In the past, Yan Zi did not surrender because Cui Zhu had a white sword on his neck, and the Nanshi family did not bend their writing to survive because Tai Shi died. Therefore, the image will be passed down from person to person and the name will be passed down to future generations.
What's more, if I hold the golden city firmly and use the bravery of the people and soldiers to use three years' savings for one year, to relieve the sleepy, make up for the lack, and please the world, why should I use it to build houses and plow the land instead?
But fearing that the autumn wind would blow up the dust, Bo Han would drive his horse south, Zhang Yang and Fei Yan would work together to cause chaos, and the alarm would be heard on the northern border, and the brothers and sisters would be asked to return to save themselves.
Therefore, Mr. Yuan should learn from his peers at this time, roll up his flag and retreat. He has been angry for too long and it is not appropriate to expose his majesty to my city.
You ridiculed me for relying on Montenegro for rescue. Why don't you remember the Yellow Turban's unity?
In the past, Emperor Gaozu collected Peng Yue in the vast wilderness, and Guangwu established his foundation in the green forest. In the end, he could either receive orders from heaven or revive the imperial industry.
If it can help the monarch prosper and become a king, then what does it matter?
What's more, I personally signed the seal and worked with him!
Farewell to Kong Zhang, I invite you to help outside the country, Zang Hong surrenders to your relatives; you entrust Yuan Shao, and my name is Chang'an.
You say that my body and reputation will be destroyed, and I will also laugh at you that your life and death will be unknown. We are the same but we are different, we work hard, what else is there to say?
Yuan Shao read Zang Hong's reply and knew that he had no intention of surrender, so he increased his troops and attacked quickly.
There was no food in the city, and there were no reinforcements outside. Zang Hong himself was probably going to die, so he called the officials and said: "Yuan Shao is unethical and has evil intentions. He also does not rescue my general Zang Hong. I have no choice but to die out of righteousness."
I think you were fine and suffered this disaster in vain. You can lead your wives and children out of the city before the city is broken.
The generals all cried and said: "You and the Yuan family have no quarrel before. For the sake of the general, we are in such danger. How can we bear to leave you?"
At first, they dug up mice and boiled tendons to eat, but then they had nothing to eat. The chief clerk brought out three buckets of rice from the kitchen and asked him to cook some porridge for Zang Hong. Zang Hong said, "How can I eat alone?"
Let it be cooked into porridge, and be eaten by all the soldiers.
He also killed his beloved concubine and gave it to the generals to eat.
The soldiers and generals were in tears and could not raise their heads.
Seventy or eighty men and women died together, and no one betrayed them.
The city was broken and Zang Hong was captured alive.
Yuan Shaosheng opened the curtains, and all the generals in the assembly met with Zang Hong.
Said: Why is Zang Hong so disobedient!
Are you convinced today?
Zang Hong's eyes widened in anger and he said: "Yuan Yuan was a minister of the Han Dynasty, four generations and five princes, and he was deeply favored. Now that the imperial court is weak, he has no intention of helping others in danger. Instead, he intends to take advantage of the opportunity to achieve his ulterior motives." Kill many loyal and good people to establish your own treacherous power.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
洪亲见将军呼张陈留为兄，则洪府君亦宜为弟，而不能同心戮力，为国除害，坐拥兵众，观人屠灭。
惜洪力劣，不能推刃为天下报仇，何谓服乎？
绍本爱洪，意欲屈服赦之，见其辞切，知终不为用，乃命杀焉。
洪邑人陈容，少为诸生，亲慕于洪，随为东郡丞。
先城未败，洪使归绍。
时，容在坐，见洪当死，起谓绍曰： 将军举大事，欲为天下除暴，而专先诛忠义，岂合天意？
臧洪发举为郡将，奈何杀之！
绍惭，使人牵出，谓曰： 汝非臧洪畴，空复尔为？
容顾曰： 夫仁义岂有常所，蹈之则君子，背之则小人。
今日宁与臧洪同日死，不与将军同日生也。
遂复见杀。
比还，城已陷，皆赴敌死。
论曰：雍丘之围，臧洪之感愤壮矣！想其行跣且号，束甲请举，诚足怜也。
夫豪雄之所趣舍，其与守义之心异乎？
若乃缔谋连衡，怀诈算以相尚者，盖惟利势所在而已。
况偏城既危，曹、袁方穆，洪徒指外敌之衡，以纾倒县之会。
忿悁之师，兵家所忌。
可谓怀哭秦之节，存荆则未闻也。赞曰：先零扰疆，邓、崔弃凉。
translation: 
I saw with my own eyes that the general called Zhang Chenliu his brother, so my prince Zhang Chao should also call him his brother. He could not work together to eliminate harm for the country, but had an army and watched others beheaded.
It's a pity that my troops are not strong enough to avenge Mr. Zhang. What does it mean to surrender!
Yuan Shaoben loved Zang Hong and thought that as long as he surrendered, he would be forgiven. After seeing his passionate words, he knew that he would never be used by him, so he ordered him to be killed.
Chen Rong, a native of Zang Hong's county, was a young scholar. He envied Zang Hong's character and became the Prime Minister of Dongjun with him.
Before the city was broken, Zang Hong sent him to Yuan Shao.
Zang Hong was captured after the city was broken. When the generals were meeting, Chen Rong was present. Seeing that Zang Hong was about to die, he stood up and said to Yuan Shao: The general is carrying out a major event and wants to wipe out violence from the world, but he kills the loyal and righteous people first. Is this in line with God's will?
Zang Hong raised his troops for the sake of the county general, how to kill him!
Yuan Shao was so ashamed that he had Chen Rong taken out and said, "You are not one of Zang Hong's group. Why are you doing this in vain?"
Chen Rong turned around and said: Does benevolence and righteousness have a fixed place? If you practice benevolence and righteousness, you are a gentleman; if you do not practice benevolence and righteousness, you are a villain.
Today I would rather die on the same day as Zang Hong than be born on the same day as your general!
Therefore he was also killed.
Everyone sitting there sighed. Whisper: Why kill two martyrs in one day?
The historian commented: Cao Cao surrounded Zhang Chao in Yongqiu, and Zang Hong was extremely moved and indignant. It was so pitiful to see him crying barefoot, arranging his uniform, and calling for troops to rescue him!
What heroes pursue is probably different from the thoughts of those who uphold justice, right?
As for those who conspire, collude with each other, and have deceitful tricks to show off, they are all based on interests and interests.
What's more, Yongqiu City in a corner is already very dangerous. When Cao Cao and Yuan Shao were on good terms, Zang Hongkong wanted to use the power of foreign enemies to relieve Zhang Chao's crisis.
Those who fight over small things and become angry are called angry teachers. It is impossible to win a battle, and military strategists should prevent it.
It can be said that Zang Hong once applied for Baoxu to Qin to beg for an army, cried in the court of Qin, and asked Qin to save Chu. However, the application for Baoxu was successful. Qin sent troops to help Chu defeat Wu, but Zang Hong failed to achieve his goal.


