Chunk 0: 
original: 
董仲舒，广川人也。
少治《春秋》，孝景时为博士。
下帷讲诵，弟子传以久次相授业，或莫见其面。
盖三年不窥园，其精如此。
进退容止，非礼不行，学士皆师尊之。
武帝即位，举贤良文学之士前后百数，而仲舒以贤良对策焉。
制曰： 朕获承至尊休德，传之亡穷，而施之罔极，任大而守重，是以夙夜不皇康宁，永惟万事之统，犹惧有阙。
故广延四方之豪俊，郡国诸侯公选贤良修洁博习之士，欲闻大道之要，至论之极。
今子大夫褎然为举首，朕甚嘉之。
子大夫其精心致思，朕垂听而问焉。
盖闻五帝三王之道，改制作乐而天下洽和，百王同之。
当虞氏之乐莫盛于《韶》，于周莫盛于《勺》。
圣王已没，钟鼓管弦之声未衰，而大道微缺，陵夷至乎桀、纣之行，王道大坏矣。
夫五百年之间，守文之君，当涂之士，欲则先王之法以戴翼其世者甚众，然犹不能反，日以仆灭，至后王而后止，岂其所持操或誖缪而失其统与？
translation: 
Dong Zhongshu is from Guangchuan.
He studied "Spring and Autumn" when he was young, and became a doctor during the reign of Emperor Jing of Han Dynasty.
He hung a curtain indoors and sat behind the curtain to give lectures. The disciples who entered the school first taught their studies to those who entered later. Some students had not even seen him.
Dong Zhongshu didn't look at the garden for three years and studied his knowledge carefully to this extent.
The bachelors all respected him as their teacher because of his manners and manners when advancing and retreating, and did not do anything that was not in line with etiquette.
After Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty succeeded to the throne, he ordered the recommendation of more than 100 virtuous writers. Dong Zhongshu responded to the emperor's policy questions as a virtuous person.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty asked: I have inherited the highest status and the most beautiful virtues of the late emperor, and they must be passed on forever and extended to the endless future. This task is huge and the duties are important, so I have no time to enjoy and rest from morning to night. I have to think about the whole story for a long time, lest I am not thoughtful.
Therefore, I widely invite heroes and talents from all over the country, virtuous, virtuous, and knowledgeable talents who are justly selected by governors, kings, and princes. I want to know the outline of the road to governing the country and the highest principles of the theory of peace and security for the people.
Nowadays, doctors are regarded as the first choice for virtuous people, which I think is very good.
Doctors should think carefully. What I really want to know and ask is as follows.
It is said that the way the Five Emperors and Three Kings governed the country was to reform the system and create music, so that the world was stable. Hundreds of subsequent kings also did the same thing.
The most beautiful music of Yu and Shun was "Shao", and the most beautiful music of Zhou Dynasty was "Shao".
After the death of the sage king, the sound of bells, drums, and orchestras still existed, but the Great Way declined and gradually deteriorated to the point where Jie and Zhou behaved like that, and the royal way was greatly corrupted.
In the past five hundred years, the kings and scholars in power who abided by the old system wanted to learn from the legal system of the previous kings to assist the politics of the time, but they were not reversed, and the royal way continued to perish day by day. It was not until the rise of the later kings that this declining trend was stopped. Could it be that what they believe in is wrong and they have lost the tradition of Tao?


Chunk 1: 
original: 
固天降命不查复反，必推之于大衰而后息与？
乌乎！凡所为屑屑，夙兴夜寐，务法上古者，又将无补与？
三代受命，其符安在？
灾异之变，何缘而起？
性命之情，或夭或寿，或仁或鄙，习闻其号，未烛厥理。
伊欲风流而令行，刑轻而奸改，百姓和乐，政事宣昭，何修何饬而膏露降，百谷登，德润四海，泽臻草木，三光全，寒暑平，受天之祜，享鬼神之灵，德泽洋溢，施乎方外，延及群生？
子大夫明先圣之业，习俗化之变，终始之序，讲闻高谊之日久矣，其明以谕朕。
科别其条，勿猥勿并，取之于术，慎其所出。
乃其不正不直，不忠不极，枉于执事，书之不泄，兴于朕躬，毋悼后害。
子大夫其尽心，靡有所隐，朕将亲览焉。
translation: 
Or is destiny just like this, it cannot be reversed by human power, and it must evolve until the country is in danger before it stops? well!
Doesn’t all the hard work day and night and trying to imitate the distant ancient times have no effect?
So, what was the basis for the monarchs of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties to accept the mandate of heaven?
What caused the disaster?
The reality of life may be death, longevity, benevolence, or despicability. We often hear these names, but we fail to fully understand the truth behind them.
I want to use the power of customs and education to implement orders; to reduce punishments and change evildoers; to make the people harmonious and happy, and to make politics enlightened. How should we rectify the political system so that the dew will fall everywhere, the crops will be harvested, and the people in the four seas will be benefited from the virtues, and even the vegetation will be nourished? How can we prevent the three lights of the sun, moon, and stars from eclipsing at all, keep them normal during the cold and summer seasons, and be able to receive the blessings of heaven and be enjoyed by ghosts and gods? How about overflowing with virtue, spreading it abroad, and spreading it to all living beings?
The officials are familiar with the career of the sage kings of the past, familiar with the principles of changes in customs, and understand the order of things from their origin, development to end. Moreover, you have been studying profound principles for a long time. I hope you can clearly tell me the results of your research!
It should be organized, not abstract, not confusing, and the proposed plan should also be carefully considered.
If there are officials who are dishonest, dishonest, and do not follow the right path, tell me boldly and they will never be leaked. I will take a look at it myself. I hope you don’t have to worry about anything later.
Doctors, feel free to tell me everything you know, don’t hide it, I want to see it myself!


Chunk 2: 
original: 
仲舒对曰：陛下发德音，下明诏，求天命与情性，皆非愚臣之所能及也。
臣谨案《春秋》之中，视前世已行之事，以观天人相与之际，甚可畏也。
国家将有失道之败，而天乃先出灾害以谴告之，不知自省，又出怪异以警惧之，尚不知变，而伤败乃至。
以此见天心之仁爱人君而欲止其乱也。
自非大亡道之世者，天尽欲扶持而全安之，事在强勉而已矣。
强勉学习，则闻见博而知益明；强勉行道，则德日起而大有功：此皆可使还至而有效者也。《诗》曰 夙夜匪解 ，《书》云 茂哉茂哉！
皆强勉之谓也。
道者，所繇适于治之路也，仁义礼乐皆其具也。
故圣王已没，而子孙长久安宁数百岁，此皆礼乐教化之功也。
王者未作乐之时，乃用先五之乐宜于世者，而以深入教化于民。
translation: 
Dong Zhongshu's countermeasures said: Zhongshu said: Your Majesty issued a virtuous voice and wise Shao Shu to seek answers to destiny and sentiment. These two questions cannot be answered by a foolish minister.
I carefully followed the records in "Spring and Autumn" and examined what previous generations had done to study the interaction between heaven and man. The situation was terrifying!
If a country is about to experience corruption that violates morality, then heaven will send disasters to condemn and remind it; if it does not know how to wake up, heaven will send out some strange things to warn and scare it; if it does not know how to repent, then harm and destruction will come.
From this we can see that Heaven is kind to humans and hopes to help humans eliminate disasters.
If the generation is not very unethical, God will always want to support and protect him. The thing is that the monarch works hard.
If you work hard to study knowledge, you will be knowledgeable and knowledgeable, and your talents will be smarter; if you work hard to practice the Tao, your virtue will become noble and more successful. These can be obtained quickly, and they can be effective quickly. The Book of Songs says: From morning to night, do not dare to slack off. "Shang Shu" says: Work hard! Work hard!
It all means hard work.
Tao is the way to govern the country. Benevolence, righteousness, etiquette, and music are all tools for governing the country.
Therefore, even though the wise king died, his descendants can still rule for a long time and enjoy peace for hundreds of years. This is all due to the effect of ritual and music education.
When the king did not compose music himself, he would choose the music of previous kings that was suitable for the society at that time, and use it to deeply educate the people.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
教化之情不得，雅颂之乐不成，故王者功成作乐，乐其德也。
乐者，所以变民风，化民俗也；其变民也易，其化人也著。
故声发于和而本于情，接于肌肤，臧于骨髓。
故王道虽微缺，而管弦之声未衰也。
夫虞氏之不为政久矣，然而乐颂遗风犹有存者，是以孔子在齐而闻《韶》也。
夫人君莫不欲安存而恶危亡，然而政乱国危者甚众，所任者非其人，而所繇者非其道，是以政日以仆灭也。
夫周道衰于幽、厉，非道亡也，幽、厉不繇也。
至于宣王，思昔先王之德，兴滞补弊，明文、武之功业，周道粲然复兴，诗人美之而作，上天晁之，为生贤佐，后世称通，至今不绝。
此夙夜不解行善之所致也。
孔子曰 人能弘道，非道弘人 也。
translation: 
Without the actual effect of enlightenment, elegant and praising music cannot be made. Therefore, the king only makes music after he has achieved fame and praises his merits with music.
Music is used to change folk customs and influence folk customs; music is easy to change folk customs and has a significant effect in influencing people.
Therefore, the sound of music comes from a harmonious atmosphere, is based on emotion, touches the skin, and is hidden deep in the bone marrow.
Therefore, although the royal way has declined, the sound of orchestral music still circulates.
The politics of Yu and Shun have been gone for a long time, but the music and hymns handed down still exist, so Confucius could hear the music of "Shao" in Qi State.
There is no ruler who does not want the country to be peaceful and hates danger. However, there are many cases of political chaos and country danger. This is because the people appointed are inappropriate and their words and deeds are not in line with the principles of governing the country. Therefore, political affairs deteriorate day by day.
The Tao of the Zhou Dynasty declined by the time of King Li and King You of Zhou. It was not that the Tao died, but that King Li and You did not follow the Tao.
King Xuan of Zhou missed the virtues of the previous sages, revived long-stagnant undertakings, rectified the shortcomings of the times, carried forward the achievements created by King Wen and King Wu of Zhou, and the "Tao" of the Zhou Dynasty was revived brilliantly. Poets praised him and wrote poems for him, thinking that God had blessed him and gave him a virtuous assistant. Later generations praised King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty, and they continue to this day.
This was the result of King Zhou Xuan's unremitting efforts to do good deeds day and night.
Confucius said that people can light the great road, not Daoguang.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
故治乱废兴在于己，非天降命不得可反，其所操持誖谬失其统也。
臣闻天之所大奉使之王者，必有非人力所能致而自至者，此受命之符也。
天下之人同心归之，若归父母，故天瑞应诚而至。
周公曰 复哉复哉 ，孔子曰 德不孤，必有邻 ，皆积善累德之效也。
及至后世，淫佚衰微，不能统理群生，诸侯背畔，残贱良民以争壤土，废德教而任刑罚。
刑罚不中，则生邪气；邪气积于下，怨恶畜于上。上下不和，则阴阳缪盭而娇孽生矣。
此灾异所缘而起也。
臣闻命者天之令也，性者生之质也，情者人之欲也。
或夭或寿，或仁或鄙，陶冶而成之，不能粹美，有治乱之所在，故不齐也。
translation: 
Therefore, the control and chaos, the destruction and the prosperity, all depend on oneself. The world is in decline and chaos not because destiny is irreversible, but because of the absurd behavior of human kings and the loss of the fine traditions of the previous kings.
I have heard that a person who is respected by Heaven and becomes a king must have something that cannot be accomplished by human power. This is the proof that a king has received the destiny of Heaven.
Everyone in the world obeyed him with one heart, just like obeying their parents, so the gods sensed sincerity, and auspiciousness appeared.
"Shangshu" says: The white fish jumped into the boat the king was riding in. Fire covered the king's house and turned into a crow. This is the proof of receiving the destiny. Duke Zhou said: You deserve good retribution! You deserve good retribution! Confucius said: A virtuous person will never be isolated and will definitely be helped. This is all the result of accumulated good deeds.
However, in later generations, the monarch became licentious and extravagant, his morals declined, and he was unable to govern the people. The princes betrayed him, killed good people, fought for land, abandoned moral education, and abused punishment.
Improper use of punishment will produce evil spirits; evil spirits will accumulate at the bottom, resentment will gather at the top, and there will be disharmony between the upper and lower levels, causing yin and yang to become disordered and evildoers to breed.
This is the reason why disasters occur strangely.
I heard that destiny is the order of heaven, sex is the nature of birth, and love is human desire.
Some people die young, some live long, some are kind, and some are despicable. Just like making tiles and gold, they cannot all be pure and beautiful. Due to the influence of social chaos, people's life span and character are inconsistent.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
孔子曰： 君子之德风，小人之德草，草上之风必偃。
故尧、舜行德则民仁寿，桀、纣行暴则民鄙夭。
未上之化下，下之从上，犹泥之在钧，唯甄者之所为，犹金之在熔，唯冶者之所铸。 绥之斯俫，动之斯和 ，此之谓也。
臣谨案《春秋》之文，求王道之端，得之于正。正次王，王次春。
春者，天之所为也；正者，王之所为也。
其意曰，上承天之所为，而下以正其所为，正王道之端云尔。
然则王者欲有所为，宜求其端于天。
天道之大者在阴阳。阳为德，阴为刑；刑主杀而德主生。
是故阳常居大夏，而以生育养长为事；阴常居大冬，而积于空虚不用之处。
以此见天之任德不任刑也。
天使阳出布施于上而主岁功，使阴入伏于下而时出佐阳；阳不得阴之助，亦不能独成岁。
终阳以成岁为名，此天意也。
王者承天意以从事，故任德教而不任刑。
刑者不可任以治世，犹阴之不可任以成岁也。
为政而任刑，不顺于天，故先王莫之肯为也。
今废先王德教之官，而独任执法之吏治民，毋乃任刑之意与！
孔子曰： 不教而诛谓之虐。
虐政用于下，而欲德教之被四海，故难成也。
臣谨案《春秋》谓一元之意，一者万物之所从始也，元者辞之所谓大也。
谓一为元者，视大始而欲正本也。
《春秋》深探其本，而反自贵者始。
故为人君者，正心以正朝廷，正朝廷以正百官，正百官以正万民，正万民以正四方。
translation: 
Confucius said: The virtue of a gentleman is like the wind, and the virtue of a villain is like grass. Whichever way the wind blows, the grass will fall.
Therefore, when Yao and Shun practiced virtuous governance, the people were merciful and long-lived; when Jie and Zhou were tyrannical, the people were greedy and perish.
The ruler above educates the people below, and the people below obey the ruler above, just like clay placed in a mold and left to be worked by a potter; or like metal placed in a container, left to be cast by a blacksmith. "The Analects of Confucius" says: Make the people stable, and the people will come to obey; make the people inspired, and the people will work together.
That's what it means. I carefully studied the meaning of "Spring King's first month" in "Spring and Autumn", looking for the beginning of the king's way, and got the correct answer. Zheng is inferior to Wang Wang, and Wang Wang is inferior to Chun.
Spring is the work of heaven. That’s what the king does.
It means that when a monarch flatters Heaven above and corrects his own behavior below, this is the beginning of the kingly way.
However, if a king wants to make a difference, he should ask heaven for this beginning.
The greatest thing in the way of heaven is yin and yang, yang is the virtue, yin is the punishment, punishment is the main force of killing, and virtue is the main force of life.
Therefore, Yang is always in the midsummer, taking birth and growth as its own business; Yin is often in the harsh winter, accumulating in empty and ineffective places.
It can be seen from this that Heaven uses moral education and does not use punishment.
The angel Yang appears, gives alms above, and is in charge of the harvest of the year; he makes the yin enter, hide below, and often comes out to help the yang; without the help of the yin, the yang cannot complete the years alone.
From the beginning to the end, Yang is in the name of completing the years. This is God's will.
The king does things according to the will of God, so he uses moral education instead of punishment.
Punishment cannot be used to govern society, just as Yin cannot be used to complete the years.
To use punishment while in power is not to obey the will of heaven, so the former king was not willing to do so.
Now that the former king's officials in charge of moral education have been abolished, and only law enforcement officials are used to govern the people, is this the original intention of the former king's use of punishment?
Confucius said: Killing people without education is called tyranny.
It is difficult to achieve the goal of spreading moral education to the whole world when brutal politics is applied to the lower levels.
I carefully examine the meaning of "Yi Yuan" in the Spring and Autumn Annals. "Yi Yuan" is the beginning of all things, and "Yi Yuan" is what is said in the vocabulary.
Saying that one is Yuan shows a big beginning and wants to correct its fundamentals.
"Spring and Autumn" deeply explores its origin, but it turns out that it starts with noble people.
Therefore, as a monarch, you must first rectify your heart before you can rectify the court. Only by rectifying the court can you rectify the hundreds of officials. Only by rectifying the hundreds of officials can you rectify the people. Only by rectifying the people can you rectify the four directions.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
四方正，远近莫敢不壹于正，而亡有邪气奸其间者。
是以阴阳调而风雨时，群生和而万民殖，五谷孰而草木茂，天地之间被润泽而大丰美，四海之内闻盛德而皆徕臣，诸福之物，可致之祥，莫不毕至，而王道终矣。
孔子曰： 凤鸟不至，河不出图，吾已矣夫！
自悲可致此物，而身卑贱不得致也。
今陛下贵为天子，富有四海，居得致之位，操可致之势，又有能致之资，行高而恩厚，知明而意美，爱民而好士，可谓谊主矣。
然而天地未应而美祥莫至者，何也？
凡以教化不立而万民不正也。
夫万民之从利也，如水之走下，不以教化堤防之，不能止也。
是故教化立而奸邪皆止者，其堤防完也；教化废而奸邪并出，刑罚不能胜者，其堤防坏也。
古之王者明于此，是故南面而治天下，莫不以教化为大务。
translation: 
When the four directions are upright, no one near or far dares not to be upright, and there is no evil spirit mixed in the surface.
Therefore, the yin and yang are harmonious and the wind and rain are timely, all things are in harmony and the people are growing up, the grains are harvested and the vegetation is luxuriant, the heaven and the earth are blessed, and a very rich and beautiful scene is presented, and people from all over the world come to pay homage to the monarch when they hear his virtues.
Confucius said: If the phoenix bird does not come and the river map does not appear, I am afraid I will be finished!
This is because he is sad that his virtue can bring about such auspiciousness, but he cannot because of his humble status.
Now His Majesty is the emperor, rich in the world, in a position that can attract auspiciousness, has mastered the situation that can attract auspiciousness, and has the qualifications that can attract auspiciousness. His behavior is noble and virtuous, his intelligence is bright and his intentions are good, he loves the people and likes the scribes, and he can be said to be a moral monarch.
However, the heaven and earth did not respond, and the beautiful auspiciousness did not arrive. What is the reason?
Probably because education has not been established and the people have not been brought into the right path.
The pursuit of profit by all the people is like water flowing downward, and it cannot be stopped unless education is used as a dike.
Therefore, when enlightenment is established and treachery ceases, it is because its embankments are intact; when enlightenment is abolished and treachery and evil coexist, and punishment cannot be used to stop them, it is because its embankments are broken.
Ancient kings understood this truth, so when they sat down to govern the world, they always regarded education as their main task.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
立太学以教于国，设痒序以化于邑，渐民以仁，摩民以谊，节民以礼，故其刑罚甚轻而禁不犯者，教化行而习俗美也。
圣王之继乱世也，扫除其迹而悉去之，复修教化而崇起之。
教化已明，习俗已成，子孙循之，行五六百岁尚未败也。
至周之末世，大为亡道，以失天下。
秦继其后，独不能改，又益甚之，重禁文学，不得挟书，弃捐礼谊而恶闻之，其心欲尽灭先圣之道，而颛为自恣苟简之治，故立为天子十四岁而国破亡矣。
自古以来，未尝有以乱济乱，大败天下之民如秦者也。
其遗毒余烈，至今未灭，使习俗薄恶，人民嚚顽，抵冒殊扞，孰烂如此之甚者也。
孔子曰： 腐朽之木不可雕也，粪土之墙不可圬也。
今汉继秦之后，如朽木、粪墙矣，虽欲善治之，亡可奈何。
法出而奸生，令下而诈起，如以汤止沸，抱薪救火，愈甚亡益也。
translation: 
Taixue was set up in the capital to educate, county schools and township schools were set up in the counties to educate the people, benevolence was used to educate the people, righteousness was used to influence the people, and etiquette was used to control the people. Therefore, although the punishment was light, no one violated the prohibition. This is because of the implementation of education and beautiful customs.
The sage king inherited the troubled times. He swept away all the traces left by the troubled times, restored enlightenment, and gave special praise.
By the time the teachings have been understood and the customs have been developed, if the descendants continue to follow them and implement them, they will not decay even after five or six hundred years.
By the end of the Zhou Dynasty, the monarch was so unethical that he lost the world.
After the Qin Dynasty succeeded the Zhou Dynasty, not only did it not change, but it became even more unethical than the last years of the Zhou Dynasty. It strictly prohibited literature and private collection of books, abandoned etiquette and justice, and even hated hearing the words of etiquette and justice. He wanted to completely destroy the morality of the previous king, and exclusively used his own unbridled, sloppy, and crude methods to govern the country. Therefore, the country perished after only fourteen years as emperor.
Since ancient times, there has never been a situation like the Qin Dynasty that used chaos to fight chaos and seriously harmed the people of the world.
The poison left over from the Qin Dynasty is like a residual flame that has not been extinguished until now. It has made the customs evil, the people deceitful and stubborn, resisting, breaking laws and morals, and corruption has reached such a serious level.
Confucius said: Rotten wood cannot be carved; mud walls cannot be whitewashed.
Now that the Han Dynasty succeeded the Qin Dynasty, the social situation is like rotten wood and mud walls. Although we want to manage it well, there is no good way.
As soon as the law is promulgated, evil will occur, and as soon as the order is issued, deception will follow. Just like using hot water to stop boiling or holding firewood to put out a fire, it will only get worse and worse without any benefit.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
窃譬之琴瑟不调，甚者必解而更张之，乃可鼓也；为政而不行，甚者必变而更化之，乃可理也。
当更张而不更张，虽有良工不能善调也：当更化而不更化，虽有大贤不能善治也。
故汉得天下以来，常欲善治而至今不可善治者，失之于当更化而不更化也。
古人有言曰： 临渊羡鱼，不如退而结网。
今临政而愿治七十余岁矣，不如退而更化；更化则可善治，善治则灾害日去，福禄日来。
《诗》云： 宜民宜人，受禄于人。
为政而宜于民者，固当受禄于天。
夫仁、谊、礼、知、信五常之道，王者所当修饬也；五者修饬，故受天之晁，而享鬼神之灵，德施于方外，延及群生也。
translation: 
For example, if the sound of the harp and the harp are not harmonious, the strings must be broken off and reinstalled before it can be played; if it is not good at handling political affairs, it must be destroyed and replaced with new ones before it can be managed.
If the strings of the instrument should be re-stretched but not changed, even if there are excellent craftsmen, they cannot adjust them; if the strings of the instrument should be reformed but not reformed, even if there are great sages, they cannot be repaired.
Therefore, since the Han Dynasty conquered the world, it has often wanted to govern it well, but it has not been governed well yet. The problem is that it should be reformed but there is no reform.
The ancients have testified: It is better to go back and weave a fishing net yourself if you stand by the pond and envy others for catching fish.
The Han Dynasty came to power and wanted to manage political affairs well. It has been more than seventy years now. It is better to go back and carry out reforms. After reforms, we can govern well. If the country is well governed, disasters will be eliminated day by day, and blessings will come day by day.
"The Book of Songs" says: Be suitable for the people, suitable for people, and accept the blessings given by heaven.
If your governance is suitable for the people, you will naturally receive blessings from God.
Benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, and trust are the five eternal ways, which the king should cultivate and cultivate. If these five ways can be cultivated and well-organized, he will be blessed by heaven. Ghosts and gods will also come to help him accept sacrifices, and his kindness will spread abroad and expand to all living things.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
天子览其对而异焉，乃复册之曰：制曰：盖闻虞舜之时，游于岩郎之上，垂拱无为，而天下太平。
周文王至于日昃不暇食，而宇内亦治。
夫帝王之道，岂不同条共贯与？
何逸劳之殊也？
盖俭者不造玄黄旌旗之饰。
及至周室，设两观，乘大路，朱干玉戚，八佾陈于庭，而颂声兴。
夫帝王之道岂异指哉？
或曰良玉不瑑，又曰非文亡以辅德，二端异焉。
殷人执五刑以督奸，伤肌肤以惩恶。
成、康不式，四十余年天下不犯，囹圄空虚。
秦国用之，死者甚众，刑者相望，秏矣哀哉！
乌乎！朕夙寤晨兴，惟前帝王之宪，永思所以奉至尊，章洪业，皆在力本任贤。
translation: 
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty saw Dong Zhongshu's countermeasures and thought it was very unusual, so he asked the officials again: "When I heard about Yu Shun, Yu Shun often walked in the corridors of the palace and did nothing, but the world was peaceful."
King Wen of Zhou was so busy all day that he turned his head to the west and had no time to eat. The world was also at peace.
Isn’t there a common order and a consistent set of principles for the emperor’s way of governing the world?
Why is there such a big difference between ease and labor?
Those diligent and frugal emperors did not even make black or yellow flags.
But in the Zhou Dynasty, two viewing platforms were built outside the palace gate, people rode in jade-decorated carriages, made red shields and jade ax handles, and sixty-four people danced around the court, and songs of praise rang out everywhere.
Isn’t the purpose of the emperor’s way different?
You Ru said: Good jade does not need to be carved. Some people say that without literary talent, it cannot support virtue. The two views are different.
The people of the Yin Dynasty formulated five types of criminal laws to prevent treachery and punished evil by mutilating the body.
However, King Zhou Cheng and King Zhou Kang abandoned these criminal laws for more than 40 years, and no one in the world broke the law. The prison was empty.
Qin State used these criminal laws, killing many people, and people were tortured one after another. The world was empty and the population was reduced. How sad! well!
I went to bed late and got up early, thinking about the laws of the previous emperors, and thinking for a long time about what would be suitable for the supreme status and to carry forward the cause of my ancestors. I thought the key was to work hard to improve agriculture and appoint wise men.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
今朕亲耕籍田以为农先，劝孝弟，崇有德，使者冠盖相望，问勤劳，恤孤独，尽思极神，功烈休德未始云获也。
今阴阳错缪，氛气充塞，群生寡遂，黎民未济，廉耻贸乱，贤不肖浑淆，未得其真，故详延特起之士，庶几乎！
今子大夫待诏百有余人，或道世务而未济，稽诸上古之不同，考之于今而难行，毋乃牵于文系而不得骋与？
将所繇异术，所闻殊方与？
各悉对，著于篇，毋讳有司。明其指略，切磋究之。以称朕意。
仲舒对曰：臣闻尧受命，以天下为忧，而未以位为乐也，故诛逐乱臣，务求贤圣，是以得舜、禹、稷、卨、咎繇。
众圣辅德，贤能佐职，教化大行，天下和洽，万民皆安仁乐谊，各得其宜，动作应礼，从容中道。
translation: 
Now I am personally cultivating my own land to set an example for farmers, and encourage the people to honor their parents, be friendly to their brothers, and respect virtuous people. I have also sent many envoys to comfort the hardworking people and help the lonely people who have no parents or children. I have tried every method, but I have not achieved great results or good virtues.
Now the yin and yang are in chaos, the world is full of bad atmosphere, many living things cannot grow, the people are trapped in poverty, honest people and shameless people are confused together, good people and bad people cannot be distinguished, and the real situation cannot be obtained. Therefore, I have widely invited particularly outstanding scholars to ask for advice. Maybe the goal can be achieved!
Now there are more than a hundred officials waiting for the edict. Some of them talk about today's affairs but it is unrealistic. They use ancient history to prove it, and it is difficult to implement it when using the current situation. Is it because they are hampered by the civil servants' decrees and cannot express themselves arbitrarily?
Or is it because the academic sources are different and the insights obtained are different?
Everyone can answer the questions to the best of their ability and write them on the paper. Don’t be afraid of the officials in charge. Explain your intentions and strategies, and conduct discussions and studies to conform to my wishes.
Dong Zhongshu's countermeasures said: I heard that Yao had received the mandate of heaven, and I was worried that the world would not be easy to govern. I did not take pleasure in being the emperor, so I killed and exiled the ministers who disturbed the country. I tried hard to find virtuous people, so I got Shun, Yu, Hou Ji, Gao, and Jiu Yao.
Many sage people came to help him improve his moral character, and many virtuous people came to assist him in fulfilling his duties. As a result, enlightenment flourished, the world was peaceful, and the people were content to be benevolent and happy to do righteousness. Everyone found their place, acted in accordance with etiquette and justice, and moved forward calmly on the right path.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
故孔子曰： 如有王者，必世而后仁， 此之谓也。
尧在位七十载，乃逊于位以禅虞舜。
尧崩，天下不归尧子丹朱而归舜。
舜知不可辟，乃即天子之位，以禹为相，因尧之辅佐，继其统业，是以垂拱无为而天下治。
孔子曰 《韶》尽美矣，又尽善矣 ，此之谓也。
至于殷纣，逆天暴物，杀戮贤知，残贼百姓。
伯夷、太公皆当世贤者，隐处而不为臣。
守职之人皆奔走逃亡，入于河海。
天下秏乱，万民不安，故天下去殷而从周。
文王顺天理物，师用贤圣，是以闳夭、大颠、散宜生等亦聚于朝廷。
爱施兆民，天下归之，故太公起海滨而即三公也。
当此之时，纣尚在上，尊卑昏乱，百姓散亡，故文王悼痛而欲安之，是以日昃而不暇食民。
孔子作《春秋》，先正王而系万事，见素王之文焉。
由此观之，帝王之条贯同，然而劳逸异者，所遇之时异也。
孔子曰 《武》尽美矣，未尽善也 ，此之谓也。
translation: 
So Confucius said: If there is a king, it will take thirty years to realize benevolent government. This is what he meant.
Yao reigned for seventy years and gave way to Yu Shun.
After Yao's death, the people of the world did not turn their hearts to Yao's son Danzhu, but turned their hearts to Shun.
Shun knew that he could not escape, so he ascended the throne and became the emperor, made Yu the prime minister, continued to appoint the people appointed by Yao, and inherited Yao's tradition and career. Therefore, he handed over his clothes and did nothing to bring peace to the world.
Confucius said that the music of "Shao" is very beautiful and very good. This is what it means.
As for Shang Zhou, he violated God's will, destroyed all things, killed virtuous and intelligent people, and harmed the people.
Both Boyi and Jiang Taigong were wise men at that time. They hid themselves and did not want to become officials.
Those who were serving as officials fled to rivers and seashores.
The world was dark and chaotic, and the people had no peace, so the people in the world abandoned King Zhou of Yin and supported King Wen of Zhou.
King Wen of Zhou obeyed the will of God to govern all things, and appointed virtuous and virtuous people as teachers. Therefore, Hong Yao, Dadian, San Yisheng and other wise men gathered in the Zhou court.
He showed benevolence to the people, and everyone in the world obeyed him, so Jiang Taigong came from a remote seaside to join him, and later became the third Duke of the Zhou Dynasty.
At this time, King Zhou of Shang was still the emperor, and the order of hierarchy was chaotic. The people fled in all directions. King Wen of Zhou was very sad and wanted the people to live a stable life, so he was too busy all day to tilt his head to the west and had no time to eat.
When Confucius wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals, he first wrote about Wang Zhengzheng, and then recorded various things. This showed the so-called Su Wang who was in a lower position and was virtuous.
From this point of view, the emperor's organizational system is the same, but diligence and ease are different because the times they encountered are different.
Confucius said that the music of "Wu" is very beautiful, but it is not very good. This is what it means.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
臣闻制度文采玄黄之饰，所以明尊卑，异贵贱，而劝有德也。
故《春秋》受命所先制者，改正朔，易服色，所以应天也。
然则官至旌旗之制，有法而然者也。
故孔子曰： 奢则不逊，俭则固。
俭非圣人之中制也。
臣闻良玉不瑑，资质润美，不待刻瑑，此亡异于达巷党人不学而自知也。
然则常玉不瑑，不成文章；君子不学，不成其德。
臣闻圣王之治天下也，少则习之学，长则材诸位，爵禄以养其德，刑罚以威其恶，故民晓于礼谊而耻犯其上。
武王行大谊，平残贼，周公作礼乐以文之，至于成康之隆，囹圄空虚四十余年，此亦教化之渐而仁谊之流，非独伤肌肤之效也。
translation: 
I heard that the institutional literary style and black and yellow decorations are used to distinguish between superior and inferior, to distinguish between high and low, and to encourage people to be virtuous.
"Spring and Autumn" was written under the mandate of heaven, so the first thing it formulated was to change the calendar and the color of clothes to conform to heaven.
Then, the system of palaces and banners is based on effective laws.
Therefore Confucius said: If you are extravagant, you are not humble enough; if you are frugal, you are simple.
Frugality is not a system of sage moderation.
I heard that good jade does not need to be carved because its texture is smooth and beautiful and does not need to be carved. It is as if Xiang Lu could know it by himself without studying.
But if ordinary jade is not carved, it cannot achieve beautiful patterns; if a gentleman does not learn, it cannot achieve virtue.
I heard that the sage king governed the world, and taught the young to develop good study habits, and gave the elders positions to test their talents. Positions and salaries are used to cultivate their virtues, and punishments are used to prevent them from doing evil. Therefore, the people understand etiquette and are ashamed to offend their superiors.
King Wu of Zhou exercised righteousness and pacified the remnant thieves, and Duke Zhou performed rituals and music to bring order. Until the prosperous times of King Cheng and King Kang of Zhou, the prison remained empty for more than forty years. This is also the influence of education and benevolence, not just the result of physical mutilation and dissection.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
至秦则不然。师申商之法，行韩非之说，憎帝王之道，以贪狼为俗，非有文德以教训于下也。
诛名而不察实，为善者不必免，而犯恶者未必刑也。
是以百官皆饰虚辞而不顾实，外有事君之礼，内有背上之心；造伪饰诈，趣利无耻；又好用憯酷之吏，赋敛亡度，竭民财力，百姓散亡，不得从耕织之业，群盗并起。
是以刑者甚众，死者相望，而奸不息，俗化使然也。
故孔子曰 导之以政，齐之以刑，民免而无耻 ，此之谓也。
今陛下并有天下，海内莫不率服，广览兼听，极群下之知，尽天下之美，至德昭然，施于方外。
夜郎、康居，殊方万里，说德归谊，此太平之致也。
然而功不加于百姓者，殆王心来加焉。
translation: 
This was not the case in the Qin Dynasty. They followed the methods of Shen Buhai and Shang Yang, implemented Han Fei's teachings, and hated the ancient emperors' principles of governing the world. Corruption became common, and they did not educate the world with etiquette and justice.
Qin only seeks fame but does not check the reality. Good people who do good deeds may not be exempted from crime, and bad people who break the law may not be punished.
Therefore, all the officials lied and deceived and were not practical. On the surface, they showed respect for the emperor, but in their hearts they harbored the intention of betraying the emperor. They used deception to cover up their cunning and pursued selfish interests without shame. They also always liked to use cruel and vicious officials to collect taxes without limit and drained the people's financial resources. The people fled everywhere and could not engage in farming or textile work, so bandits broke out everywhere.
Therefore, many people were tortured and died one after another, but the bad people did not stop. This was caused by customs and education.
Therefore Confucius said: Use political laws to teach the people, use punishments to punish the people, and the people will pretend to be exempted from punishment but have no shame. That's what it means.
Now His Majesty has unified the world, and there is no one who is disobedient in the four seas. Your Majesty observes extensively, listens to many aspects, and absorbs the wisdom of the people as much as possible. He possesses the virtues of the world, and his noble virtues shine universally and spread abroad.
Yelang and Kang Ju, who traveled thousands of miles away, were so impressed that they returned to their hearts. It was such a sight to behold.
But kindness has not been extended to ordinary people. Maybe you haven't noticed this problem yet.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
曾子曰： 尊其所闻，则高明矣；行其所知，则光大矣。
高明光大，不在于它，在乎加之意而已。
愿陛下因用所闻，设诚于内而致行之，则三王何异哉！
陛下亲耕籍田以为农先，夙寤晨兴，忧劳万民，思维往古，而务以求贤，此亦尧、舜之用心也，然而未云获者，士素不厉也。
夫不素养士而欲求贤，譬犹不琢玉而求文采也。
故养士之大者，莫大乎太学；太学者，贤士之所关也，教化之本原也。今以一郡一国之众，对亡应书者，是王道往往而绝也。
臣愿陛下兴太学，置明师，以养天下之士，数考问以尽其材，则英俊宜可得矣。
今之郡守、县令，民之师帅，所使承流而宣化也；故师帅不贤，则主德不宣，恩泽不流。
translation: 
Zengzi said: If you respect the principles you have heard, you will be wise; if you practice the principles you know, you will be glorious.
Being brilliant does not depend on anything else but paying attention to these things.
I hope that your Majesty will adopt the principles you have heard and act accordingly sincerely. So, what is the difference between you and the three kings?
His Majesty personally cultivated his own land to promote agriculture, got up early and went to bed late, worried about the people, missed the ancient times, and sought wise men with all his heart. This was also the intention of Yao and Shun, but he did not find wise men. This was because he did not encourage and exhort the scholars in ordinary times.
Trying to seek wise men without cultivating talents is like asking for literary talent without carving jade.
Therefore, there is nothing more important to cultivate talents than to run the Imperial College well. The Imperial College is the place where wise men are produced and the source of education. Nowadays, there are many people in all counties and counties, but some counties have not yet appointed virtuous people to provide literary advice and make countermeasures. This is because the royal way is often cut off there.
I hope that your majesty will establish an imperial college. Hire talented teachers to educate and train the world's scholars, and constantly question them so that they can give full play to their talents, and then handsome talents can be obtained.
Today's county governors and county magistrates are teachers and role models for the people. They are entrusted to inherit the monarch's benevolence and propagate enlightenment. If the teachers are not virtuous, the benevolence of the monarch will not be promoted, and the benevolence will not be spread to the people below.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
今吏既亡教训于下，或不承用主上之法，暴虐百姓，与奸为市，贫穷孤弱，冤苦失职，甚不称陛下之意。
是以阴阳错缪，氛气弃塞，群生寡遂，黎民未济，皆长吏不明，使至于此也。
夫长吏多出于郎中、中郎，吏二千石子弟选郎吏，又以富訾，未必贤也。
且古所谓功者，以任官称职为差，非谓积日累久也。
故小材虽累日，不离于小官；贤材虽未久，不害为辅佐。
是以有司竭力尽知，务治其业而以赴功。
今则不然。累日以取贵，积久以致官，是以廉耻贸乱，贤不肖浑淆，未得其真。
臣愚以为使诸列侯、郡守、二千石各择其吏民之贤者，岁贡各二人以给宿卫，且以观大臣之能；所贡贤者有赏，所贡不肖者有罚。
夫如是，诸侯、吏二千石皆尽心于求贤，天下之士可得而官使也。
遍得天下之贤人，则三王之盛易为，而尧、舜之名可及也。毋以日月为功，实试贤能为上，量材而授官，录德而定位，则廉耻殊路，贤不肖异处矣。
陛下加惠，宽臣之罪，令勿牵制于文，使得切磋究之，臣敢不尽愚！
translation: 
Nowadays, since the officials do not educate the people, or do not implement the monarch's decrees, they brutalize the people, collude with bad people, and seek personal gain, causing the poor and weak to suffer unjustly and become homeless, which is not in line with His Majesty's wishes.
Therefore, the yin and yang are disordered, full of resentment, the people cannot live, and cannot get help in their sufferings. This is all caused by the unwiseness of the county governors and magistrates.
Most of the county governors and county magistrates were selected from the sons of senior officials with an annual salary of two thousand dan, and they were chosen because they were rich and not necessarily wise.
Moreover, in ancient times, the evaluation of officials' merits was based on whether they were competent officials and not based on the length of time in office.
Therefore, although a person with little talent has served for a long time, he is still a minor official; although a person with talent has served for a short time, it does not prevent him from being promoted to an assistant minister.
Therefore, officials who are responsible for their duties use their talents and wisdom to do their jobs well and strive to achieve meritorious service.
This is not the case now. Officials can get high positions by accumulating time, and they can be promoted as time goes by. Therefore, integrity and shamelessness are confused, good people and bad people are not distinguished, and true talents cannot be obtained.
I foolishly thought that the princes, prefectures, and 2,000 stones should each choose the officials and talents under their jurisdiction, recommend two people every year, and use them to guard the palace. This can also be used to observe the ability of the ministers. If the recommended people are talented, they will be rewarded; if the recommended people are not good, they will be punished.
If like this, the princes and the two thousand stone officials are dedicated to seeking talented people, the talented people in the world will be able to get them, and they will be given official positions and appointed.
If there are wise men all over the world, it will be easy to achieve the prosperity of the three kings, and the reputation of Yao and Shun will be able to catch up. Never use the length of time as an official to calculate merit. It is best to actually examine the virtuousness of officials. After measuring the talents, they will be awarded official positions, and after examining the virtues, they will determine the positions. In this way, the treatment of honesty and shamelessness will be different, and good people and bad people will be able to be distinguished.
Your Majesty gives me favors, forgives my sins, teaches me not to be afraid of the officials in charge, enables me to discuss and study, and I dare not not express my superficial opinions.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
于是天子复册之。
制曰：盖闻 善言天者必有征于人，善言古者必有验于今 。
故朕垂问乎天人之应，上嘉唐虞，下悼桀、纣，浸微浸灭浸明浸昌之道，虚心以改。
今子大夫明于阴阳所以造化，习于先圣之道业，然而文采未极，岂惑乎当世之务哉？
条贯靡竟，统纪未终，意朕之不明与？听若眩与？
夫三王之教所祖不同，而皆有失，或谓久而不易者道也，意岂异哉？
今子大夫既已著大道之极，陈治乱之端矣，其悉之究之，孰之复之。
《诗》不云乎， 嗟尔君子，毋常安息，神之听之，介尔景福。
朕将亲览焉，子大夫其茂明之。
仲舒复对曰：臣闻《论语》曰： 有始有卒者，其唯圣人虖！
今陛下幸加惠，留听于承学之臣，复下明册，以切其意，而究尽圣德，非愚臣之所能具也。
前所上对，条贯靡竟，统纪不终，辞不别白，指不分明，此臣浅陋之罪也。
translation: 
So the emperor asked again.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty asked: It is said that those who are good at talking about heaven will definitely find people and events to prove it; those who are good at talking about the past will be proven in reality.
So I ask you about the relationship between heaven and man, praising Tang Yao and Yu Shun at the top, mourning Xia Jie and Shang Zhou at the bottom. Seeing these principles of gradual demise and gradual prosperity, I want to correct my mistakes with an open mind.
Doctors are well aware of the changes and functions of yin and yang, and are familiar with the Taoism and career of the ancient saint kings, but your articles do not fully express these. Do you have any doubts about contemporary government affairs?
Some truths are not systematically organized and fully expressed. Maybe it’s because I’m not smart, or I’m confused by what I’m told?
The teachings of the three kings were different at first, but they all had shortcomings. Some people say that they are eternal and unchangeable. Are there any different meanings between these two statements?
Now that the officials have written down the highest principles of the Great Dao and stated the methods for governing troubled times, I hope you will elaborate more, be more profound, and be more thoughtful.
The Book of Songs does not say: Gentleman, don’t rest in peace, God is listening to you and will help you obtain great blessings.
I will personally see your countermeasures, and the doctors will work hard to clarify your opinions.
Dong Zhongshu made another countermeasure and said: I heard from the Analects of Confucius: Only saints have a beginning and an end!
I am honored to receive your majesty's favor to listen carefully to the opinions of our ministers who have received traditional knowledge, and to issue wise books that are in line with the meaning of them, and to study the holy virtues thoroughly, which is beyond the ability of foolish ministers to state in detail.
Some of the countermeasures I proposed before lacked systematic organization and complete expression, the words were not clear, and the meaning was unclear. These are all my faults.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
册曰： 善言天者必有征于人，善言古者必有验于今。
臣闻天者群物之祖也。
故遍覆包函而无所殊，建日月风雨以和之，经阴阳寒暑以成之。
故圣人法天而立道，亦溥爱而亡私，布德施仁以厚之，设谊立礼以导之。
春者天之所以生也，仁者君之所以爱也；夏者天之所以长也，德者君之所以养也；霜者天之所以杀也，刑者君之所以罚也。
繇此言之，天人之征，古今之道也。
孔子作《春秋》，上揆之天道，下质诸人情，参之于古，考之于今。
故《春秋》之所讥，灾害之所加也；《春秋》之所恶，怪异之所施也。
书邦家之过，兼灾异之变；以此见人之所为，其美恶之极，乃与天地流通而往来相应，此亦言天之一端也。
古者修教训之官，务以德善化民，民已大化之后，天下常亡一人之狱矣。
translation: 
Cewen said: Those who are good at talking about heaven will definitely find people and events to prove it; those who are good at talking about the past will be able to get practical proof.
I heard that Heaven is the ancestor of all things, so Heaven universally covers and includes all things without partiality.
Heaven creates the sun, moon, wind, and rain to coordinate all things, and gives birth to all things through yin, yang, cold, and heat.
Therefore, the sage imitates Heaven and establishes the Tao, and he also spreads benevolence without any selfishness, treats the people with kindness and love, and establishes principles and etiquette to guide the people.
Spring is used by heaven to bring forth all things, benevolence is used by man to care for the people; summer is used by heaven to nourish all things, virtue is used by man to nourish the people; autumn frost is used by heaven to kill all things, and criminal law is used by man to punish criminals.
From this point of view, the verification of heaven and man is the truth from ancient times to the present.
Confucius wrote "Spring and Autumn" to measure the way of heaven. To verify human feelings, refer to ancient times and examine today.
Therefore, what the "Spring and Autumn" ridicules is what is violated by disasters; what "Spring and Autumn" hates is what is touched by weirdness.
Confucius wrote about the country's faults and changes in disasters. It can be seen from the law that the good and bad behavior of people are connected with heaven and earth and respond to each other. This is also a way of talking about heaven.
In ancient times, there were officials in charge of education and training, whose duty was to educate the people with virtue and kindness. After the people were greatly influenced, there was often no one in prison in the world.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
今世废而不修，亡以化民，民以故弃行谊而死财利，是以犯法而罪多，一岁之狱以万千数。
以此见古之不可不用也，故《春秋》变古则讥之。
天令之谓命，命非圣人不行；质朴之谓性，性非教化不成；人欲之谓情，情非度制不节。
是故王者上谨于承天意，以顺命也；下务明教化民，以成性也；正法度之宜，别上下之序，以防欲也；修此三者，而大本举矣。
人受命于天，固超然异于群生，入有父子兄弟之亲，出有君臣上下之谊，会聚相遇，则有耆老长幼之施，粲然有文以相接，欢然有恩以相爱，此人之所以贵也。
生五谷以食之，桑麻以衣之，六畜以养之，服牛乘马，圈豹槛虎，是其得天之灵，贵于物也。
故孔子曰： 天地之性人为贵。
明于天性，知自贵于物；知自贵于物，然后知仁谊；知仁谊，然后重礼节；重礼节，然后安处善；安处善，然后乐循理；乐循理，然后谓之君之。
故孔子曰 不知命，亡以为君子 ，此之谓也。
translation: 
In modern times, this system has been abandoned and it is impossible to educate the people. Therefore, the people do not know how to do justice and die in pursuit of wealth. Therefore, more people commit crimes. Within a year, tens of thousands of people are imprisoned and prosecuted.
It can be seen from this that the laws of ancient times have to be adopted, so "Spring and Autumn" will ridicule changes in ancient systems.
The command of heaven is called destiny, and a person who is not a sage cannot follow this destiny; the nature he is born with is called sex, which cannot be achieved without education; the desire of man is called emotion, and this emotion cannot be controlled without laws.
Therefore, the king must be very careful to flatter and obey the will of heaven; below, he must educate the people so that they can fulfill their nature; he must establish laws that should be followed, distinguish the order of superiority and inferiority, and prevent greed; if these three things are done well, the foundation of the country will be laid.
Human beings have received destiny and are originally superior and different from other creatures. At home, we have the relationship of father, son, brother, and outside, we have the status of king and minister. When we meet at gatherings, we have the rules of respecting the elderly and distinguishing the elders from the younger. We have clear etiquette to receive each other, and we love each other happily and kindly. This is a valuable place for people.
Planting grains for food, sowing mulberry and hemp for making clothes, raising livestock, driving oxen and horses, penning leopards and guarding tigers are all manifestations of man receiving the aura of heaven, which is more precious than all other things.
Therefore Confucius said: Human beings are the most precious creatures born from heaven and earth.
When people understand nature, they know that they are more valuable than all things; when they know that they are more valuable than all things, they know etiquette and righteousness; they know etiquette and righteousness, and then they pay attention to etiquette; they pay attention to etiquette, and then they are at ease in the good way; they are at ease in the good way, and then they are willing to follow the principles and do things; they are willing to follow the principles, and then they are called gentlemen.
So Confucius said, "If you don't know destiny, you can't be a gentleman." This is what it means.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
册曰： 上嘉唐、虞，下悼桀、纣，浸微浸灭浸明浸昌之道，虚心以改。
臣闻众少成多，积小致臣，故圣人莫不以晻致明，以微致显。
是以尧发于诸侯，舜兴乎深山，非一日而显也，盖有渐以致之矣。
言出于已，不可塞也；行发于身，不可掩也。
言行，治之大者，君子之所以动天地也。
故尽小者大，慎微者著。《诗》云： 惟此文王，小心翼翼。
胡尧兢兢日行其道，而舜业业日致其孝，善积而名显，德章而身尊，以其浸明浸昌之道也。
积善在身，犹长日加益，而人不知也；积恶在身，犹火之销膏，而人不见也。
非明乎情性察乎流俗者，孰能知之？
此唐、虞之所以得令名，而桀、纣之可为悼惧者也。
夫善恶之相从，如景乡之应形声也。
translation: 
Ce Wen said: From the top we praise Tang Yao and Yu Shun, and from the bottom we mourn Xia Jie and Shang Zhou. Seeing the gradual demise and gradual prosperity of these principles, I must humbly correct my mistakes.
I heard that accumulating a little can make a lot, and accumulating a small amount can make a big thing. Therefore, the saints all accumulate dim light to reach the light, and step by step from humble status to greatness.
Therefore, Yao was promoted from a prince to emperor, and Shun was raised from farming in the mountains. They did not achieve respect in one day, but gradually.
If you speak your own words, you can no longer block them; if your actions are made by yourself, you can no longer cover them up.
Words and deeds are the most important conditions for governing a country. The reason why a gentleman can move the world is also his words and deeds.
Therefore, small things add up to big things, and careful attention to subtle behaviors will make you famous. The Book of Songs says: This King Wen, be careful.
Therefore, Yao cautiously carried out his way of governing the country every day, and Shun fulfilled his filial piety every day carefully and fearfully. As he accumulated more good deeds, he naturally became famous, had outstanding virtues, and was respected by others. This created the principle of gradual prosperity.
Accumulating good in oneself is like a person growing up without realizing it; accumulating evil in oneself is like a lamp burning oil, and it is not easy for people to see it.
Who can understand this truth unless he is a person who understands emotions and has insight into worldly situations?
This is the reason why Tang Yao and Yu Shun gained good reputations, but Xia Jie and Shang Zhou caused people pain and fear.
The consequences of good or evil actions are like shadows following human figures, reverberations following sounds.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
故桀、纣暴谩，谗贼并进，贤知隐伏，恶日显，国日乱，晏然自以如日在天，终陵夷而大坏。
夫暴逆不仁者，非一日而亡也，亦以渐至，故桀、纣虽亡道，然犹享国十余年，此其浸微浸灭之道也。
册曰： 三王之教所祖不同，而皆有失，或谓久而不易者道也，意岂异哉？
臣闻夫乐而不乱复而不厌者谓之道；道者万世之弊，弊者道之失也。
先王之道必有偏而不起之处，故政有眊而不行，举其偏者以补其弊而已矣。
三王之道所祖不同，非其相反，将以救溢扶衰，所遭之变然也。
故孔子曰： 亡为而治者，其舜乎！
改正朔，易服色，以顺天命而已；其余尽循尧道，何更为哉！
故王者有改制之名，亡变道之实。
translation: 
Therefore, Jie and Zhou were violent and neglectful, the slanderous people were exploited, and the virtuous and wise people were hidden. As a result, Jie and Zhou's crimes became more and more obvious day by day, and the country became more and more chaotic. However, they were still peaceful and contented, thinking that they were like the sun in the sky, and finally gradually became corrupted and destroyed.
Those cruel and unkind monarchs did not perish all at once, but also gradually. Therefore, even though Jie and Zhou were immoral, they still reigned for more than ten years, which meant that they gradually declined and even perished.
Ce Wen said: The teachings of the three kings are imitated in different ways, and all have shortcomings. Some people say that they are eternal. Is there any difference in the intention of these two statements?
I have heard that the way of enjoying things without becoming sexually immoral and practicing them repeatedly without getting tired of them is called Tao.
The ways of the former kings must be biased and cannot be implemented, so in politics, there are sometimes dark and unworkable aspects. Just point out its biases and remedy its shortcomings.
Although the three kings follow different ways, they are not opposite. They are all designed to remedy mistakes and support decline. The reason why they are different is because the environment they encounter has changed.
Therefore Confucius said: The one who can govern the country without doing anything is Shun!
Shun only changed the calendar, changed the colors of carriages, horses, sacrifices, and clothing to comply with the destiny of heaven. The rest completely followed Yao's way of governing the country. Why should he change it!
Therefore, the king only changed the name of the system, but did not change the essence of the Tao.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
然夏上忠，殷上敬，周上文者，所继之救，当用此也。
孔子曰： 殷因于夏礼，所损益可知也；周因于殷礼，所损益可知也；其或继周者，虽百世可知也。
此言百王之用，以此三者矣。
夏因于虞，而独不言所损益者，其道如一而所上同也。
道之大原出于天，天不变，道亦不变，是以禹继舜，舜继尧，三圣相受而守一道，亡救弊之政也，故不言其所损益也。
繇是观之，继治世者其道同，继乱世者其道变。
今汉继大乱之后，若宜少损周之文致，用夏之忠者。
陛下有明德嘉道，愍世俗之靡薄，悼王道之不昭，故举贤良方正之士，论议考问，将欲兴仁谊之林德，明帝王之法制，建太平之道也。
臣愚不肖，述所闻，诵所学，道师之言，廑能勿失耳。
若乃论政事之得失，察天下之息耗，此大臣辅佐之职，三公九卿之任，非臣仲舒所能及也，然而臣窃有怪者。
translation: 
However, the reason why the Xia Dynasty valued loyalty, the Yin Dynasty respected respect, and the Zhou Dynasty respected Wen is because when dynasties changed, the previous generation had faults, and this should be done in order to remedy them.
Confucius said: It can be known that the Yin Dynasty has increased or decreased according to the ritual system of the Xia Dynasty; that the Zhou Dynasty has increased or decreased according to the ritual system of the Yin Dynasty; and that others who succeeded the Zhou Dynasty have experienced hundreds of generations, but this can also be known.
Creation means that what hundreds of kings use are loyalty, respect, and culture.
The Xia Dynasty followed Yu and Shun, but did not mention additions or decreases. This is because the principles of the Xia Dynasty and Yu Shun were the same; the loyalty that the Xia Dynasty advocated was the same as that of Yu Shun.
The root of Tao comes from heaven. Heaven does not change and Tao does not change. Therefore, Yu inherited Shun's Tao, and Shun inherited Yao's Tao. The three saints taught each other and followed the same Tao. There were no measures to remedy disadvantages, so we do not say that they added or subtracted from Tao.
From this point of view, those who inherit the rule of the world have the same way; those who inherit the troubled times have to change their way.
Now that the Han Dynasty has inherited great chaos, it should reduce the literature of the Zhou Dynasty and use the loyalty of the Xia Dynasty.
Your Majesty has sage virtues and beautiful ways. He is saddened by the decline of the secular world and the unclearness of the royal way. Therefore, he elects virtuous and upright scholars, conducts discussions and tests, and intends to raise the virtues of benevolence and righteousness, clarify the emperor's legal system, and establish a peaceful way of governing the country.
I am ignorant and dishonest, recounting what I have heard, reciting what I have learned, and speaking the principles taught by the teacher, just to avoid forgetting them.
As for discussing the gains and losses of political affairs and studying the prosperity and poverty of society, these are the duties of ministers and assistants. The responsibilities of the three ministers and nine ministers are beyond the knowledge of Zhongshu. But I have a strange problem privately.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
夫古之天下亦今之天下，今之天下亦古之天下，共是天下，古以大治，上下和睦，习俗美盛，不令而行，不禁而止，吏亡奸邪，民亡盗贼，囹圄空虚，德润草木，泽被四海，凤皇来集，麒麟来游，以古准今，壹何不相逮之远也！
安所缪盭而陵夷若是？意者有所失于古之道与？
有所诡于天之理与？
试迹之于古，返之于天，党可得见乎。
夫天亦有所分予，予之齿者去其角，傅其翼者两其足，是所受大者不得取小也。
古之所予禄者，不食于力，不动于末，是亦受大者不得取小，与天同意者也。
夫已受大，又取小，天不能足，而况人乎！
此民之所以嚣嚣苦不足也。
身宠而载高位，家温而食厚禄，因乘富贵之资力，以与民争利于下，民安能如之哉！
translation: 
The world in ancient times is the world now, and the world now is the world in ancient times. They are the same world. In ancient times, the world was peaceful, in harmony, with beautiful customs. Things were done without orders and without restraint. Officials did not Evil, there are no thieves among the people, the prisons are empty, there are no prisoners, the kindness of the Lord has nourished the grass and trees, and spread to the four seas, the phoenix has flown, and the unicorn has appeared. If we compare the situation in ancient times to the present, how can it be so different?
What went wrong that led to this decline? I think maybe it goes against the ancient way of governing a country?
Maybe it goes against the laws of nature?
If you try to examine the past and trace it back to the laws of nature, you might be able to spot some problems, right?
Heaven gives creatures separately. Those who give sharp teeth will no longer give horns, and those who give wings will only give two feet. That is to say, if you accept the big one, you can no longer take the small one.
In ancient times, those who received salaries did not rely on manual labor for food, nor did they seek industrial and commercial benefits. This also accepted the big one and could not choose the small one, which was the same as God's will.
If you have already obtained the big one, and you go to take the small one, God cannot give it like that, let alone man?
This is the reason why people are suffering from insufficient food and clothing.
Those who are favored by the monarch and occupy high positions, whose families are well clothed, fed and provided with generous salaries, rely on their wealth and power to compete with the people below for profit. How can the people compare with them?


Chunk 23: 
original: 
是故众其奴婢，多其牛羊，广其田宅，博其产业，畜其积委，务此而亡已，以迫蹴民，民日削月浸，浸以大穷。
富者奢侈羡溢，贫者穷急愁苦；穷急愁苦而不上救，则民不乐生；民不乐生，尚不避死，安能避罪！
此刑罚之所以蕃而奸邪不可胜者也。
故受禄之家，食禄而已，不与民争业，然后利可均布，而民可家足。
此上天之理，而亦太古之道，天子之所宜法以为制，大夫之所当循以为行也。
故公仪子相鲁，之其家见织帛，怒而出其妻，食于舍而茹葵，愠而拔其葵，曰： 吾已食禄，又夺园夫红女利乎！
古之贤人君子在列位者皆如是，是故下高其行而从其教，民化其廉而不贪鄙。
及至周室之衰，其卿大夫缓于谊而急于利，亡推让之风而有争田之讼。
故诗人疾而刺之，曰： 节彼南山，惟石岩岩，赫赫师尹，民具尔瞻。
由是观之，天子大夫者，下民之所视效，远方之所四面而内望也。
近者视而放之，远者望而效之，岂可以居贤人之位而为庶人行哉！
夫皇皇求财利常恐乏匮者，庶人之意也；皇求仁义常恐不能化民者，大夫之意也。
《易》曰： 负且乘，致寇至。
乘车者君子之位也，负担着小人之事也，此言居君子之位而为庶人之行者，其患祸必至也。
translation: 
Therefore, those people used many slaves and maids, owned many cattle and sheep, expanded their fields and houses, expanded their industries, and increased their savings. They devoted themselves to these without any end, oppressed the people, made them frightened, and the people were exploited every day and gradually became poor.
The rich are extravagant and wasteful, the poor are poor and miserable; the poor are poor and miserable but those in higher positions do not provide relief, then the people will have no means of living; if the people have no means of life, the people will not even be afraid of death, so how can they be afraid of committing crimes!
This is the reason why there are many punishments, but treachery cannot be banned.
Therefore, families who enjoy their salaries should just live with their salaries and not compete with the people for profit-making industries. In this way, the benefits can be evenly distributed and the people can have enough money for their families.
This is the principle of heaven and the way of ancient times. The emperor should follow the legal system and the officials should abide by it.
So when Gongyizi was the prime minister of the State of Lu, he came home and saw his wife weaving silk. He was very angry and drove his wife away. When he was eating at home, he ate the sunflower seeds grown in his home. He angrily pulled out the sunflower seeds in the garden and said, "I already have a salary, do I want to take away the benefits of the vegetable growers and the weaver girls?"
In ancient times, wise men and gentlemen served as officials in this way. Therefore, the people respected their virtues and listened to their teachings. Influenced by their integrity, the people would not behave greedily and despicably.
By the end of the Zhou Dynasty, officials in the Qing Dynasty were less concerned about etiquette and justice and were eager to seek profits. They lost the spirit of humility and started lawsuits over land disputes.
Therefore, the poet hated and satirized them and said: That high Nanshan, the rocks are so stacked; O the famous Shi Yin, the people are all looking at you!
If an official has a heart for benevolence and righteousness, the people will naturally love benevolence and righteousness, and the customs will be kind; if an official is interested in profit, the people will not be upright, and the customs will be corrupted.
From this point of view, the emperor and the great officials are the examples that the people look up to and imitate. They are the people who look up to and imitate them from afar. How can they be in the position of sages and behave like common people?
Those who are busy seeking financial gain and often worried about poverty are the thoughts of the common people; those who are busy seeking benevolence and righteousness and often worried about not being able to educate the people are the thoughts of the officials.
"Book of Changes" says: Carrying things on your back and riding in a car will lead to the arrival of robbers.
Riding in a carriage means that you are in the position of a gentleman, and carrying things is the business of a villain. This means that if you are in the position of a gentleman but behave like a commoner, disaster will definitely come to you.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
若居君子之位，当君子之行，则舍公仪休之相鲁，亡可为者矣。
《春秋》大一统者，天地之常经，古今之通谊也。
今师异道，人异论，百家殊方，指意不同，是以上亡以持一统；法制数变，下不知所守。
臣愚以为诸不在六艺之科孔子之术者，皆绝其道，勿使并进。
邪辟之说灭息，然后统纪可一而法度可明，民知所从矣。
对既毕，天子以仲舒为江都相，事易王。
易王，帝兄，素骄，好勇。
仲舒以礼谊匡正，王敬重焉。
久之，王问仲舒曰： 粤王勾践与大夫泄庸、种、蠡谋伐吴，遂灭之。
孔子称殷有三仁，寡人亦以为粤有三仁。
桓公决疑于管仲，寡人决疑于君。
translation: 
If you are in the position of a gentleman and do what a gentleman should do, then there is nothing else you can do except be like Gong Yixiu who was the prime minister of the state of Lu.
"Spring and Autumn" emphasizes unity, which is the eternal principle of heaven and earth and a common truth between ancient and modern times.
Nowadays, the principles stated by teachers are different from each other, and people's opinions are also different from each other. The research directions of various schools of thought are different, and their intentions are also different. Therefore, the superiors cannot grasp the unified standards, the laws and regulations have been changed many times, and the people below do not know how to abide by them.
I believe that all subjects that do not belong to the Six Arts and Confucian academic theories are prohibited and they are not allowed to develop in the same way.
Once the eccentric doctrines disappear, the academic system can be unified, the legal system can be understood, and the people will know who to obey.
After the countermeasures were completed, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty appointed Dong Zhongshu as the Prime Minister of Jiangdu to assist King Yi.
Liu Fei, King of Yi, was the elder brother of Emperor Wu of Han Dynasty. He was always very arrogant and liked to be brave.
Dong Zhongshu supported King Yi with courtesy and justice, and King Yi respected him very much.
After a while, King Yi asked Dong Zhongshu: King Gou Jian of Yue and the officials Xie Yong, Wen Zhong, and Fan Li conspired to attack the state of Wu, and finally reduced the state of Wu.
Confucius said that King Zhou of Yin had three benevolent people, and I think King Gou Jian of Yue also had three benevolent people.
During the Spring and Autumn Period, Duke Huan of Qi asked Guan Zhong to answer some difficult questions. I have questions, please explain.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
仲舒对曰： 臣愚不足以奉大对。
闻昔者鲁君问柳下惠： 吾欲伐齐，何如？ 柳下惠曰： 不可。
归而有忧色，曰： 吾闻伐国不问仁人，此言何为至于我哉！
徒见问耳，且犹羞之，况设诈以伐吴乎？
由此言之，粤本无一仁。
夫仁人者，正其谊不谋其利，明其道不计其功。是以仲尼之门，五尺之童羞称五伯，为其先诈力而后仁谊也。
苟为诈而已，故不足称于大君子之门也。
五伯比于他诸侯为贤，其比三王，犹武夫之与美玉也。 王曰： 善。
仲舒治国，以《春秋》灾异之变推阴阳所以错行，故求雨，闭诸阳，纵诸阴，其止雨反是；行之一国，未尝不得所欲。
中废为中大夫。
translation: 
Dong Zhongshu replied: I am ignorant and cannot answer your question.
I heard that in the Spring and Autumn Period, Duke Xi of Lu asked Liu Xiahui, an official of Lu: I want to attack Qi, what do you think? Liu Xiahui said: No.
When he returned home, he looked worried and said, "I heard that attacking other countries does not involve virtuous people. Why does the king want to attack Qi? Why do you ask me?"
Liu Xiahui was just questioned and felt ashamed, let alone plotting a false surrender to attack the state of Wu?
From this point of view, there is no benevolent person in Yue State.
A benevolent person upholds his righteousness but does not seek personal gain, and expounds his way but does not care about his own merits. Therefore, among Confucius's disciples, even underage children are ashamed to talk about the Five Hegemons, because the Five Hegemons promote deception and force and do not pay attention to benevolence and righteousness.
The king of Yue and his ministers were just practicing unfair tricks, so they were not worthy of discussion by Confucius's disciples.
The Five Hegemons are wiser than other princes, but compared with the Three Kings, they are like jade-like stones compared with beautiful jade. King Yi said: Well said.
When Dong Zhongshu governed the country, he used the disasters and changes recorded in the Spring and Autumn Annals to find out the reasons for the misalignment of yin and yang. Therefore, when praying for rain, he closed the yang and moved the yin. When he stopped the rain, he closed the yin and moved the yang. This method of praying for rain to stop waterlogging has been implemented throughout Jiangdu, and everyone does what they want.
Later, Dong Zhongshu was deposed as a middle doctor.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
先是辽东高庙、长陵高园殿灾，仲舒居家推说其意，草稿未上，主父偃候仲舒，私见，嫉之，窃其书而奏焉。
上召视诸儒，仲舒弟子吕步舒不知其师书，以为大愚。
于是下仲舒吏，当死，诏赦之，仲舒遂不敢复言灾异。
仲舒为人廉直。
是时方外攘四夷，公孙弘治《春秋》不如仲舒，而弘希世用事，位至公卿。
仲舒以弘为从谀，弘嫉之。
胶西王亦上兄也，尤纵恣，数害吏二千石。
弘乃言于上曰： 独董仲舒可使相胶西王。
胶西王闻仲舒大儒，善待之。
仲舒恐久获罪，病免。
凡相两国，辄事骄王，正身以率下，数上疏谏争，教令国中，所居而治。
及去位归居，终不问家产业，以修学著书为事。
仲舒在家，朝廷如有大议，使使者及廷尉张汤就其家而问之，其对皆有明法。
自武帝初立，魏其、武安侯为相而隆儒矣。及仲舒对册，推明孔氏，抑黜百家。
立学校之官，州郡举茂材孝廉，皆自仲舒发之。
年老，以寿终于家，家徙茂陵，子及孙皆以学至大官。
仲舒所著，皆明经术之意，及上疏条教，凡百二十三篇。
translation: 
Prior to this, fires broke out successively in the Gaomiao Temple in Liaodong County where emperors of the Han Dynasty worshiped their ancestors, and in the Gaoyuan Hall in Changling, where the emperors of the Han Dynasty worshiped their ancestors. Dong Zhongshu deduced the relationship between fires from heaven and the human world. He wrote the draft of the memorial but did not submit it. The master's father Yan came to visit Dong Zhongshu and read the draft of the memorial in private. He was always jealous of Dong Zhongshu, so he stole the draft of the memorial and handed it to Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty summoned many Confucian scholars and asked them to read the draft of Dong Zhongshu's memorial. Dong Zhongshu's student Lu Bushu didn't know that this draft of the memorial was written by his teacher, and thought it was very ignorant.
So Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty handed Dong Zhongshu over to the officials for questioning and sentenced him to death. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty issued an edict to pardon him. From then on, Dong Zhongshu did not dare to talk about disasters and changes.
Dong Zhongshu is honest and upright.
At that time, the Han Dynasty was using troops from surrounding ethnic minorities. Gongsunhong's research on "Gongyang Chunqiu" was not as good as Dong Zhongshu's. However, Gongsunhong catered to the secular world, gained great power, and became a high official.
Dong Zhongshu thought Gongsun Hong was flattering, but Gongsun Hong hated Dong Zhongshu.
Liu Duan, the king of Jiaoxi, was also the brother of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty. He was particularly indulgent, cruel and arrogant, and repeatedly murdered two thousand stone officials sent by the imperial court.
Gongsun Hong told Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty: Only Dong Zhongshu can serve as the king of Jiaoxi.
King Liu Duan of Jiaoxi heard that Dong Zhongshu was a famous Confucian master and treated him with respect.
Dong Zhongshu was afraid that he would be punished by accident over time, so he resigned and went home on the grounds of old age and illness.
Dong Zhongshu served as prime minister of Jiangdu and Jiaoxi, assisting the arrogant princes and kings. He set an example for his subordinates by setting an example for his subordinates. He went to the eunuch many times to give outright advice, and formulated edicts to be implemented in the country. Both Jiangdu and Jiaoxi where he was located were well governed.
After he resigned from office and returned home, he didn't care about the family property at all. He just immersed himself in reading and writing books.
Dong Zhongshu was recuperating at home. If the court discussed important issues, it would send envoys and the court official Zhang Tang to his home to ask for his opinions. Dong Zhongshu's answers were all well-founded.
From the time when Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty first came to the throne, Wei Qihou Dou Ying and Wu'an Hou Tian successively became prime ministers and began to promote Confucianism. Dong Zhongshu responded by promoting Confucius and suppressing hundreds of schools of thought.
It was Dong Zhongshu who set up officials to manage schools and recommended talents, filial piety and honesty in the prefectures and counties.
Dong Zhongshu died at home in old age. Later, his family moved to Maoling County, and his son and grandson became high officials based on their knowledge.
Dong Zhongshu's works all clarify the purpose of Confucian classics. Together with memorials and teachings, there are a total of 123 works.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
而说《春秋》事得失，《闻举》、《玉杯》、《蕃露》、《清明》、《竹林》之属，复数十篇，十余万言，皆传于后世。
掇其切当世施朝廷者著于篇。
赞曰：刘向称： 董仲舒有王佐之材，虽伊、吕亡以加，管、晏之属，伯者之佐，殆不及也。
至向子歆以为： 伊、吕乃圣人之耦，王者不得则不兴。
故颜渊死，孔子曰 噫！
天丧余。 唯此一人为能当之，自宰我、子赣、子游、子夏不与焉。
仲舒遭汉承秦灭学之后，《六经》离析，下帷发愤，潜心大业，令后学者有所统壹，为群儒首。
然考其师友渊源所渐，犹未及乎游、夏，而曰管、晏弗及，伊、吕不加，过矣。
至向曾孙龚，笃论君子也，以歆之言为然。
translation: 
There are dozens of articles explaining the gains and losses of the "Spring and Autumn" records, as well as "Wen Ju", "Jade Cup", "Fan Dew", "Qingming" and "Bamboo Forest", with more than 100,000 words, all of which have been passed down to later generations.
I selected the content that is relevant to today's society and the imperial court and wrote it in the article.
Praising day: Liu Xiang praised: Dong Zhongshu has the ability to be an assistant to the king. Even Yi Yin and Lu Wang cannot surpass him. Guan Zhong and Yan Ying are the assistants of the overlord, so I am afraid they are not as good as him.
Liu Xiang's son Liu Xin believed that Yi Yin and Lu Wang were the companions of a saint, and a king could not rise without them.
So when Yan Yuan died, Confucius said, "Oh!"
Heaven destroys me. Only Yan Yuan can compare with Yi Yin and Lu Wang. As for Zai Wo, Zigong, Ziyou, Zixia and others, they cannot be included in the ranks of saints.
After the Western Han Dynasty succeeded the Qin Dynasty and the burning of scholarship, Dong Zhongshu's "Six Classics" fell apart. So he put down his work and devoted himself to studying Confucian classics, which enabled later scholars to have a systematic and consistent understanding of Confucianism and became the leader of the group of Confucian scholars.
However, when examining the origins of his mentors and friends and looking at their influence on each other, Dong Zhongshu could not catch up with Zi You and Zi Xia, but it is wrong to say that Guan Zhong and Yan Ying were not as good as him, and Yi Yin and Lu Wang were not as good as him.
Liu Xiang's great-grandson Liu Gong is a gentleman who is good at commenting on figures. He believes that Liu Xin's evaluation of Dong Zhongshu is appropriate.


