Chunk 0: 
original: 
蔡邕字伯喈，陈留圉人也。
六世祖勋，好黄、老，平帝时为眉阝令。
王莽初，授以厌戎连率。
勋对印绶仰天叹曰 吾策名汉室，死归其正。
昔曾子不受季孙之赐，况可事二姓哉 遂携将家属，逃入深山，与鲍宣、卓茂等同不仕新室。
父棱，亦有清白行，谥曰贞定公。
邕性笃孝，母常滞病三年，邕自非寒暑节变，未尝解襟带，不寝寐者七旬。
母卒，庐于冢侧，动静以礼。
有菟驯扰其室傍，又木生连理，远近奇之，多往观焉。
与叔父从弟同居，三世不分财，乡党高其义。
少博学，师事太傅胡广。
好辞章、数术、天文，妙操音律。
桓帝时，中常侍徐璜、左悺等五侯擅恣，闻邕善鼓琴，遂白天子，敕陈留太守督促发遣。
邕不得已，行到偃师，称疾而归。
闲居玩古，不交当世。
感东方朔《客难》及杨雄、班固、崔骃之徒设疑以自通，乃斟酌群言，韪其是而矫其非，作《释诲》以戒厉云尔。
有务世公子诲于华颠胡老曰 盖闻圣人之大宝曰位，故以仁守位，以财聚人。然则有位斯贵，有财斯富，行义达道，士之司也。
translation: 
◆Cai Yong's biography, Cai Yong's courtesy name was Bo Zhe, and he was a native of Chenliuyu County.
Cai Xun, the sixth generation ancestor, was a master of the skills of Huang Emperor and Lao Tzu. He was the magistrate of Meichan County during the reign of Emperor Ping.
In the early years of Wang Mang's usurpation of the throne, he was appointed as the commander of the Yanrong Company.
Cai Xun looked up at the official seal and sighed and said: I am an official of the Han Dynasty, and I will not deviate from the right path even if I die.
In the past, Zengzi would not accept anything from Jisun, let alone serving someone with a second surname! So he took his family and fled into the mountains, where he, Bao Xuan, Zhuo Mao and others did not serve as Wang Mang's officials.
His father, Cai Leng, also had a clean conduct and was named Duke Zhending after his death.
Cai Yong was a filial person, and his mother was ill for three years. No matter whether it was midsummer, severe winter, or the weather changed, she never untied her clothes and didn't sleep for seventy days.
When my mother died, a house was built next to the tomb to live in and guard her. Every movement and silence was observed in accordance with the etiquette.
A rabbit jumped docilely next to his house, and there were trees and branches. People from far and near found it strange, and many people came to see it.
He lived with his uncle and his brothers, and the family was not separated for three generations. People in the village praised him for his good conduct.
He was erudite when he was young and learned from Taifu Hu Guang.
He likes literature, mathematics, astronomy, and is also good at music.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, Xu Huang, Zuo and other five princes, who were often ministers in the imperial court, were masters of power and lawlessness. Hearing that Cai Yong was good at playing the piano and drums, he informed the emperor and ordered the prefect Chenliu to supervise the departure.
Cai Yong had no choice but to go to Yanshi, pretended to be ill, and returned home.
Nothing to do, just playing with antiques at home and not interacting with ordinary people nowadays.
Inspired by Dongfang Shuo's "The Guest" and Yang Xiong, Ban Gu, and Cui Xi's self-examination of doubts, I learned from hundreds of schools of thought, affirmed what was correct and corrected what was incorrect, and wrote "Explanation" to alert and encourage myself.
In the third year of Jianning, he was recruited to Situ Qiaoxuan's mansion. Qiaoxuan treated him very well.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
故伊挚有负鼎之衒，仲尼设执鞭之言，甯子有清商之歌，百里有豢牛之事。夫如是，则圣哲之通趣，古人之明志也。夫子生清穆之世，禀醇和之灵，覃思典籍，韫椟《六经》，安贫乐贱，与世无营，沈精重渊，抗志高冥，包括无外，综析无形，其已久矣。曾不能拔萃出群，扬芳飞文。
登天庭，序彝伦，扫六合之秽慝，清宇庙之埃尘，连光芒于白日，属炎气于景云，时逝岁暮，默而无闻。小子惑焉，是以有云。
方今圣上宽明，辅弼贤知，崇英逸伟，不坠于地，德弘者建宰相而裂土，才羡者荷荣禄而蒙赐。
盍亦回涂要至，俯仰取容，辑当世之利，定不拔之功，荣家宗于此时，遗不灭之令踪。
夫独未之思邪，何为守彼而不通此
胡老傲然而笑曰 若公子，所谓睹暧昧之利，而忘昭晢之害。
专必成之功，而忽蹉跌之败者已 公子谡尔敛袂而兴曰 胡为其然也 胡老曰 居，吾将释汝。
昔自太极，君臣始基，有羲皇之洪守，唐、虞之至时。三代之隆，亦有缉熙，五伯扶徽，勤而抚之。
于斯已降，天网纵，人纮，王涂坏，太极陁，君臣土崩，上下瓦解。
于是智者聘诈，辩者驰说。
translation: 
The river is flat and long.
He summoned the doctor to pay homage and read the book to the east.
Promoted to Yilang. Cai Yong believed that the classics were written by saints a long time ago, and there were many textual errors, which were far-fetched by vulgar Confucianism, which was a nuisance to students. In the fourth year of Xiping, together with Wu Guan Zhonglang Xi Gudian, Guanglu doctor Yang Ci, admonishment doctor Ma Rishidan, Yilang Zhang Xun, Han Shuo, Taishi Lingdan, etc., he petitioned for the correct text of the Six Classics.
Emperor Ling approved it, and Cai Yong wrote it on the stele himself with a red pen, and asked the workers to carve it and set it up outside the gate of Taixue. Later Confucian students took this as their standard scripture. When the monument was newly erected, more than a thousand cars came to see and copy it in one day, and the streets were blocked.
At first, the imperial court believed that the prefectures and counties were colluding and people were working together for personal gain, and ordered that the marriage family and people from the two prefectures were not allowed to serve as supervisors for each other.
Now there are three mutual laws, the marriage family and people from the two states are not allowed to serve as officials for each other. Taboos are tighter. It is not easy to select officials.
In the two states of You and Ji, posts have been absent for a long time and cannot be replenished. Cai Yong's Shangshu said: You and Ji are the places where soldiers and horses come from. In recent years, the soldiers have been hungry and have gradually become empty.
Now the people are poor and there is a depression in thousands of miles. There has been no one to take charge for a long time, the people and officials are looking at each other with their necks stretched out, and the elections for the three governments have not been decided for several months. I often wonder about this, and some people say to avoid the three mutual interactions.
There are prohibitions in eleven states, just to solve the problems in You and Ji states. Moreover, some people from the two states hesitated due to time constraints, and therefore lost the opportunity.
I think the three mutual prohibitions are very slight.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
武夫奋略，战士讲锐。
电骇风驰，雾散云披，变诈乖诡，以合时宜。
或画一策而绾万金，或谈崇朝而锡瑞珪。
连衡者六印磊落，合从者骈组流离。隆贵翕习，积富无崖，据巧蹈机，以忘其危。
夫华离蔕而萎，条去干而枯，女冶容而淫，士背道而辜。人毁其满，神疾其邪，利端始萌，害渐亦牙。
速速方毂，夭夭是加，欲丰其屋，乃蔀其家。
是故天地否闭，圣哲潜形，石门守晨，沮、溺耦耕，颜歜抱璞，蘧瑗保生，齐人归乐，孔子斯征，雍渠骖乘，逝而遗轻。
夫岂傲主而背国乎。
道不可以倾也。 且我闻之，日南至则黄钟应，融风动而鱼上冰，蕤宾统则微阴萌，蒹葭苍而白露凝。
translation: 
Now as long as we show our authority and clarify the laws and regulations, who is not afraid of those in office?
Why do we create barriers just because of the three mutual bans? In the past, Han Anguo was punished by law, and Zhu Maichen was born in a poor family. Because of his talent, he returned to his place of origin to serve as an official.
Another outlaw, he was promoted to the governor of Jizhou. Is it possible to adhere to the three mutualities and restrict ourselves with some unimportant systems?
Sangong clearly knew the importance of the two states, so he should make a quick decision to break the restricted area, select talented people, and save the current crisis. Instead of taking the opinions of loyal ministers and being restricted by minute laws, the selection was delayed and talents were lost.
I hope that the emperor will follow the example of the late emperor and abolish the imperial ban. The governors of various states should be replaced, and the governors should be replaced without being limited to time and three positions. As long as they are suitable, they will be appointed.
It was submitted but not adopted. At first, the emperor loved learning and wrote fifty chapters of "Huang Xi Pian" by himself, so it was quoted by scholars in their articles.
Originally they were recruited based on the study of classics. Later, those who made rulers and wrote bird seals were all recruited, and the number increased to dozens. The servants offered wine to Lesong and Jiahu, which attracted many unscrupulous people who were in line with the sect and were waiting under the Hongdu sect. They liked to talk about local customs and small things in the countryside. The emperor was very happy and promoted them not according to the usual order. In addition, dozens of merchants, merchants, and civilians, who were dutiful sons of Xuanling, were given the rank of doctor or prince. At that time, there were often thunder and strong winds, damaging trees and uprooting them, earthquakes, hailstorms, and locusts causing damage.
Xianbei also invaded the border, and the people suffered from labor and taxes.
In July of the sixth year, the edict admitted his mistake and ordered the ministers to come up with feasible measures to manage national affairs. Cai Yong sent a secret report and said: I read the imperial edict respectfully. Although King Cheng of Zhou was hit by a wind disaster and asked all the officials in history, and King Xuan of Zhou was hit by drought, he was diligent and wary of fear, but it was nothing more than this.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
寒暑相推，阴阳代兴，运极则化，理乱相承。
今大汉绍陶唐之洪烈，荡四海之残灾，隆隐天之高，拆縆地之基。
皇道惟融，帝猷显ぶ，汦々庶类，含甘吮滋。
检六合之群品，济之乎雍熙，群僚恭己于职司，圣主垂拱乎两楹。君臣穆穆，守之以平，济济多士，端委缙綎，鸿渐盈阶，振鹭充庭。譬犹钟山之玉，泗滨之石，累珪璧不为之盈，采浮磬不为之索。
曩者，洪源辟而四隩集，武功定而干戈戢，猃狁攘而吉甫宴，城濮捷而晋凯入。
故当其有事也，则蓑笠并载，擐甲扬锋，不给于务。
当其无事也。
则舒绅缓佩，鸣玉以步，绰有馀裕。
夫世臣、门子，暬御之族，天隆其祜，主丰其禄。
translation: 
I heard that God’s disasters follow the occurrence of certain phenomena. The yang energy reoccurred frequently, probably due to too many killings.
Wind is God's command to educate people. As long as you serve God with integrity and light, you will seek blessings; if you worship your ancestors well, ghosts and gods will appear.
In all major national affairs, sacrifice is the first priority. This is what the emperor should do respectfully and personally.
I was first in the Zaifu and then as a sacrificial official, welcoming the auspicious atmosphere in the five suburbs, but the emperor rarely participated. I paid tribute at all times and often entrusted officials. Although I apologized, it was ultimately due to negligence and failure. Therefore, the emperor was not happy and so many strange things appeared. "Hong Fan Zhuan" says: If politics is corrupt and morals are not cultivated, strong winds will knock down houses and break trees. The "Kun" hexagram is authentic, and the "Yi" says that the good fortune of An Zhen should be boundless.
Yin energy accumulates more and more, and what should be quiet will become active instead, causing rebellion. If authority is not exercised above, hail will damage things; if politics is harsh and violent, tigers and wolves will eat people; greed for profit will harm the people, and locusts will damage crops.
On June 28 last year, Taibai star and the moon were in direct opposition, which was not good for military affairs. Xianbei invaded the border and came from far away. Now they set out to conquer, but they have made little progress. It violates astronomy above, and it goes against human affairs below.
We should really look at everyone’s opinions and adopt the appropriate ones.
I am very excited about this, and here are the seven things that should be implemented: The first thing: the Mingtang Monthly Order.
The emperor observes the festivals of the beginning of spring, the beginning of summer, the beginning of autumn, the beginning of winter and the end of summer. He greets and worships the Five Emperors in the Mingtang in the suburbs. In order to guide the spirit and pray for a good harvest. Cleaning temples to offer sacrifices, honoring ancestors, providing education for the elderly, and advising people to observe etiquette and change customs. These are the great undertakings of the emperor and are strictly followed by the ancestors.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
抱膺从容，爵位自从，摄须理髯，余官委贵。其取进也，顺倾转圆，不足以喻其便。
逡巡放屣，不足以况其易。
夫夫有逸群之才，人人有优赡之智。
童子不问疑于老成，瞳矇不稽谋于先生。
心恬淡于守高，意无为于持盈。
粲乎煌煌，莫非华荣。
明哲泊焉，不失所宁。狂淫振荡，乃乱其情。
贪夫殉财，夸者死权。
瞻仰此事，体躁心烦。暗谦盈之效，迷损益之数。
骋驽骀于修路，慕骐骥而增驱，卑俯乎外戚之门，乞助乎近贵之誉。
translation: 
However, the relevant departments often have taboos due to funerals in the country, intrauterine births, and deaths of officials due to illness and disease, and there is no shortage of them.
I only see that the fasting and sacrifices in the southern suburbs are not abolished. As for their sacrifices, there are different opinions. Is it true that the southern suburbs are humble and their sacrifices are noble?
Emperor Xiaoyuan issued an edict: "The etiquette should not be respected more than the sacrifices, so practicing it wholeheartedly in person is to show his respect."
He also wrote about the story of Emperor Yuanhe, and once again stated that he was discussing the establishment of group sacrifices to pray for a good harvest. He wrote the edicts before and after with sincerity.
But recently, when the Taishi was replaced, he forgot about the important matter of paying respects, allowed taboo books to become popular, only believed in trivial stories, and ruined the grand ceremony.
According to the "Rites", wives and concubines must fast and not enter side rooms when they give birth to children, and there is no provision for abolishing sacrifices.
As for the saying that if there is a death or funeral in the palace, no sacrifices will be held in March, it means that ordinary people only have a few houses and many people live together, so it is inconvenient to hold sacrifices.
Can it be said that if the palace is vast and there are many concubines, there is no need to offer sacrifices?
From now on, the system of fasting and sacrifice should be implemented in accordance with the previous regulations. Only then can we say that we have responded to the occurrence of disasters. The second thing: I heard that the country will be prosperous and I often hear good advice.
From the inside, you can know your own governance situation, and from the outside, you can understand the emotions of the people. Therefore, although the late emperor was a wise and sage, he still widely solicited opinions and inquired about the reasons for political gains and losses.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
荣显未副，从而颠踣，下获薰胥之辜，高受灭家之诛。
前车已覆，袭轨而骛，曾不鉴祸，以知畏惧。予惟悼哉，害其若是。天高地厚，跼而蹐之。怨岂在明，患生不思。
战战兢兢，必慎厥尤。
且用之则行，圣训也。
舍之则藏，至顺也。夫九河盈溢，非一凷所防。
带甲百万，非一勇所抗。
今子责匹夫以清宇宙，庸可以水旱而累尧、汤乎。
惧烟炎之毁熸，何光芒之敢扬哉。
且夫地将震而枢星直，井无景则日阴食，元首宽则望舒朓，侯王肃则月侧匿。
是以君子推微达著，寻端见绪，履霜知冰，路露知暑。
时行则行，时止则止，消息盈冲，取诸天纪。
利用遭泰，可与处否，乐天知命，持神任己。
群车方奔乎险路，安能与之齐轨。
translation: 
And because of the disaster, we looked for those high-ranking scholars who lived in seclusion and were not in official positions, and paid attention to the election of virtuous, upright, honest and righteous people. He spoke out and dared to remonstrate, and he never stopped speaking to the court.
Since the emperor came to power, disasters have occurred in successive years, and no edicts have been issued to recruit talents. We should really follow some good measures in the past, so that loyal ministers can display the spirit of daring to think and speak, so that the words of "Yi Zhuan" that "politics are contrary to morality" must not become popular.
The third thing: There is more than one way to visit talented people.
Some people are famous for their good moral cultivation, and some people are praised for their outspokenness and courage to give advice.
Recently, people in the imperial court have not been rewarded for their loyalty. Instead, they are often killed for slander and slander. Because of this, the officials kept silent and did not dare to speak.
One of the doctors, Zhang Wen, once dared to give direct advice. The emperor accepted it and reprimanded the three ministers. The ministers were sincerely convinced and the common people were also happy.
I think Zhang Wen should be promoted to an important position to reward loyal people, publicize it at home, and open up the path to wise politics. The fourth thing: The responsibilities of the Sili Xiaowei and the governors of various states are to supervise lawlessness, report bad people, and distinguish right from wrong.
Yang Xi, the governor of Youzhou, Pang Zhi, the governor of Yizhou, and Liu Qian, the governor of Liangzhou, each had a heart to obey the law and hate bad people and bad things. Yang Xi and others prosecuted and impeached them, and the best results were achieved.
Some of the others ignored them, some made false claims, and were all incompetent. Some of them have their own faults or mistakes, which are the same as what should be reported below. However, no one exposed the corruption of law and order, and the government offices and pavilions remained silent. In the fifth year of the imperial edict, eight envoys were dispatched, and the Sangong was ordered to interview Zang Fu, the chief historian, to examine the people's sufferings and report to the emperor.
At this time, those who obey the law and obey the law are happy to succeed, while those who do evil are frightened and scared to death. However, I don’t know why this suddenly stopped.
Once upon a time, Liu Xiang said: People who are hesitant in making decisions will open the door for ordinary villains; people who develop the habit of being indecisive will attract bad guys who flatter and slander.
Now I just heard a little bit about good governance, and I changed my mind in the blink of an eye.
It also advocates Fanggong skills and Hongdu's poems, so we can stop for a while.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
思危难而自豫，故在贱而不耻。
方将骋驰乎典籍之崇涂，休息乎仁义之渊薮，槃旋乎周、孔之庭宇，揖儒、墨而与为友。舒之足以光四表，收之则莫能知其所有。若乃丁千载之运，应神灵之符，闿阊阖，乘天衢，拥华盖而奉皇枢，纳玄策于圣德，宣太平于中区。计合谋从，已之图也。勋绩不立，予之辜也。龟凤山翳，雾露不除，踊跃草莱，只见其愚。不我知者，将谓之迂。修业思真，弃此焉如。静以俟命，不斁不渝。百岁之后，归乎其居。幸其获称，天所诱也。罕漫而已，非已咎也。
昔伯翳综声于鸟语，葛卢辩音于鸣牛，董父受氏于豢龙，奚仲供德于衡辀，倕氏兴政于巧工，造父登御于骅骝，非子享土于善圉，狼瞫取右于禽囚，弓父毕精于筋角，佽非明勇于赴流，寿王创基于格五，东方要幸于谈优，上官效力于执盖，弘羊据相于运筹。
仆不能参迹于若人，故抱璞而优游
于是公子仰首降阶，忸怩而避。
胡老乃扬衡含笑，援琴而歌。
歌曰 练余心兮浸太清，涤秽浊兮存正灵。
和液畅兮神气宁，情志泊兮心亭亭，嗜欲息兮无由生。
踔宇宙而遗俗兮，眇翩翩而独征
建宁三年，辟司徒桥玄府，玄甚敬待之。
出补河平长。召拜郎中，校书东观。
迁议郎。邕以经籍去圣久远，文字多谬，俗儒穿凿，疑误后学，熹平四年，乃与五官中郎将堂谿典，光禄大夫杨赐，谏议大夫马日磾，议郎张驯、韩说，太史令单飏等，奏求正定《六经》文字。
灵帝许之，邕乃自书丹于碑，使工镌刻立于太学门外。于是后儒晚学，咸取正焉。
及碑始立，其观视及摹写者，车乘日千馀两，填塞街陌。
translation: 
To show that you are in trouble. "Poetry" says: Afraid of the wrath of heaven, I dare not play with Yu.
God’s warning cannot be taken lightly!
Zaifu Xiaolian has very high requirements.
Not long ago, the three officials were severely reprimanded for careless recruitment, but now they are all using small articles to win elections, opening up the back door and violating the country's system.
Everyone is dissatisfied, but they just don’t dare to say it.
I hope that the emperor will make up his mind to change this situation and think about everything in order to repay God's hope.
Since the emperor regulates himself, his ministers should also receive education. Everyone suppresses losses and blocks disasters. Heaven is full of disgust, ghosts and gods are humble! Because of my stupidity, I am so grateful that I forget myself.
How dare you violate the taboo and write the correct answer in handwriting. If the king and his ministers are not intimate, and the king must be wary of leaking secrets, the ministers will always be in danger of losing their virginity.
Please keep your official records well, so that your loyal and upright ministers will not be resented by bad people. When the music was played, the emperor sighed after watching it.
Because he went out to use the toilet, Cao Jie peeked in from behind, so he told everyone around him, causing the matter to leak out.
Those who should be deposed by Cai Yong hated him and tried to retaliate.
In the past, Cai Yong was at odds with Situ Liu, and his uncle, Weiwei Cai Zhi, had an issue with Yang Qiu, the general's great craftsman. Yang Qiu was the son-in-law of Zhongchang Shi Cheng Huang. Cheng Huang sent someone to write an anonymous report, falsely accusing Cai Yong and Cai Zhi of asking Liu for personal matters several times, but Liu did not agree to him, so Cai Yong held a grudge, and so on.
Determined to frame Cai Yong.
Therefore, an edict was issued to the minister and Cai Yong was summoned to question him.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
初，朝议以州郡相党，人情比周，乃制婚姻之家及两州人士不得对相监临。
至是复有三互法，禁忌转密，选用艰难。
幽、冀二州，久缺不补。
邕上疏曰：
伏见幽、冀旧壤，铠马所出，比年兵饑，渐至空耗。
今者百姓虚县，万里萧条，阙职经时，吏人延属，而三府选举，逾月不定。
臣经怪其事，而论者云避三互。
十一州有禁，当取二州而已。
又二州之士，或复限以岁月，狐疑迟淹，以失事会。
愚以为三互之禁，禁之薄者，今但申以威灵，明其宪令，在任之人岂不戒惧，而当坐设三互，自生留阂邪。
昔韩安国起自徒中，朱买臣出于幽贱，并以才宜，还守本邦。
translation: 
Cai Yong wrote a letter to complain: I was summoned and asked about: Dahonglu and Liu Qian were the governor of Jiyin, and my subordinate Zhang Wan took a long rest for a hundred days; Liu was the secretary, and he asked Li Qi, the official of Hanoi County, to be the state secretary; and Liu did not do anything to make me feel resentful about Yin Yangzhi of Henan before the camp, and Hu Muban, the imperial censor. I am horrified, my heart is broken, and I have no place to bury myself.
I think the matter belongs to Zhang Wan and Li Qi and has nothing to do with Yangzhi and Hu Muban.
Generally speaking, petty officials are on vacation, which is not the basis for hatred.
He is a relative of Yangzhi, how dare he help a private party?
If we, father and son, want to frame him, we should file a lawsuit with the government and explain in detail why we hate him. There is nothing wrong inside, but the slanderous book has been published. I am willing to face Liu to prove it.
I was specially rewarded for my knowledge. Working in the secret hall, running in front of the emperor, the emperor knew his name and appearance.
In July this year, I summoned Jin Shangmen and asked me the reason for the disaster. Hold the imperial edict and apply for the purpose, and inspire again and again.
I am really stupid, I only know how to be loyal and have no thought of the consequences.
Then he ridiculed the ministers and favored ministers. I want to ask the Emperor's question, eliminate the disaster, and then build a peaceful and prosperous age for the Emperor. The emperor did not expect that the loyal minister should keep it secret. Then the false accusation came suddenly, which aroused suspicion.
How can we tolerate officials who are dedicated to harming others?
The imperial edict was issued, requiring all officials to submit secret reports, hoping to change the course and eliminate evil and bring good fortune. Not only was the person who made the suggestion not rewarded, but in the blink of an eye, he was framed. Now they are all dumbfounded and take me as a warning. Who dares to be loyal and filial to the emperor?


Chunk 8: 
original: 
又张敞亡命，擢授剧州。
岂复顾循三互，继以末制乎。
三公明知二州之要，所宜速定，当越禁取能，以救时敝。
臣之愚冗，职当咎患，但前者所对，质不及闻，而衰老白首，横见引逮，随臣摧设，并入坑埳，诚冤诚痛。
愿身当辜戮，丐质不并坐，则身死之日，更生之年也。
惟陛下加餐，为万姓自爱。
于是下邕、质于洛阳狱，劾以仇怨奉公，议害大臣，大不敬，弃市。
事奏，中常侍吕强愍邕无罪，请之，帝亦更思其章，有诏减死一等，与家属髡钳徙朔方，不得以赦令除。
阳球使客追路刺邕，客感其义，皆莫为用。
球又赂其部主使加毒害，所赂者反以其情戒邕，故每得免焉。
居五原安阳县。
translation: 
My uncle Cai Zhi was promoted to a very high position one after another; I was deeply favored and visited him several times.
The person who wrote the anonymous report wanted to frame our father and son and destroy my family. He did not want to expose traitors and benefit the country!
I am forty-six years old and alone. Fortunately, I am ranked as a loyal minister and will die with honor.
I'm afraid the emperor will never hear good advice again! I was ignorant and deserved my punishment. But my uncle Cai Zhi didn’t know the correct answers before. I am gray-haired and senile for more than a year. I was arrested. I suffered along with me and was framed together. What an injustice! What a pain!
As soon as I was imprisoned, I was forced by pain and urged to report anonymously. How could the emperor know about my situation? The day of death is coming soon, and he is reckless and self-proclaimed. He is willing to be executed himself. Then, the day I die will be the day I am reborn!
Long live health! Love yourself for the people.
So Cai Yong and Cai Zhi were sent to Luoyang Prison, where they were sentenced to serving the public with hatred, murdering ministers, being disrespectful, and abandoning the market.
After the incident was reported, Lu Qiang, the constant servant, took pity on Cai Yong's innocence and asked the emperor. The emperor thought again about what Feizhang said and issued an edict to reduce the death penalty. He shaved his head, tied his neck with an iron ring, and moved to Shuofang with his family. He was not exempted from the pardon order.
Yang Qiu sent assassins to chase and assassinate Cai Yong. The assassins were moved by Cai Yong's justice and were not used by Yang Qiu.
Yang Qiu bribed his tribe leader to poison Cai Yong, but the bribed person told Cai Yong the news and asked him to be more vigilant.
So he was not killed. Lives in Anyang County, Wuyuan.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
邕前在东观，与卢植、韩说等撰补《后汉记》，会遭事流离，不及得成，因上书自陈，奏其所著十意，分别首目，连置章左。
帝嘉其才高，会明年大赦，乃宥邕还本郡。邕自徙及归，凡九月焉。
将就还路，五原太守王智饯之。
酒酣，智起舞属邕，邕不为报。
智者，中常侍王甫弟也，素贵骄，惭于宾客，诟邕曰 徒敢轻我 邕拂衣而去。
智衔之，密告邕怨于囚放，谤讪朝廷。
内宠恶之。
邕虑卒不免，乃亡命江海，远迹吴会。往来依太山羊氏，积十二年，在吴。
吴人有烧桐以爨者，邕闻火烈之声，知其良木，因请而裁为琴，果有美音，而其尾犹焦，故时人名曰 僬尾琴 焉。
其邻人有以酒食召邕者，比往而酒以酣焉。
客有弹琴于屏，邕至门试潜听之，曰 憘。
以乐召我而有杀心，可也 遂反。
将命者告主人曰 蔡君向来，至门而去 邕素为邦乡所宗，主人遽自追而问其故，邕具以告，莫不怃然。弹琴者曰 我向鼓弦，见螳螂方向鸣蝉，蝉将去而未飞，螳螂为之一前一却。
吾心耸然，惟恐螳螂之失之也。
此岂为杀心而形于声者乎 邕莞然而笑曰 此足以当之矣
translation: 
Cai Yongqian was in Dongguan, where he, Lu Zhi, Han Shuo and others wrote a supplement to the "Records of the Later Han Dynasty", but he was in exile and did not have time to complete it. Therefore, the ten ideas written in the letter are divided into headings and appended to the end of the book.
The emperor loved Cai Yong because of his talent, so the country held a general amnesty the following year, so he pardoned Cai Yong's crime and allowed him to return to his hometown. Cai Yong was exiled for nine months until he returned home.
When he was about to return to the county, Wang Zhi, the governor of Wuyuan, saw him off.
After drinking enough, Wang Zhi danced to persuade Cai Yong, but Cai Yong ignored him.
Wang Zhi was the younger brother of Wang Fu, a regular servant. He was originally very arrogant, but he lost face and was laughed at by the guests, so he cursed Cai Yong and said: "The criminal dares to insult me!" Cai Yong shook up his clothes and left.
Wang Zhi hated him and reported that Cai Yong had a grudge against him and slandered the court.
The emperor's favored people also hated him.
Cai Yong thought that he would be killed in the end, so he fled across the rivers and seas and went to Wuhui. He relied on the Taiyang clan for his travels and stayed in Wu for twelve years.
When the people of Wu were burning tung trees for cooking, Cai Yong heard the sound of the fire and knew that tung trees were a good wood, so he asked him to make a qin. Sure enough, the sound was great, but the tail of the qin was burnt. At that time, it was called "Jiaowei Qin".
Once upon a time, Cai Yong was in Chenliu. A neighbor invited Cai Yong to dinner, but by the time he left, he had already finished the wine.
There was a guest playing the piano behind the screen. Cai Yong went to the door and listened quietly and said: Oh!
You call me happy but you have murderous intention. Why?
Just went back on his own. Cai Yongsu was respected by the villagers. His master immediately chased him and asked him what was the reason. Cai Yongsu told him the whole story, and everyone was surprised. The man playing the harp said: I was playing the strings in front of me and saw a mantis facing the cicada. The cicada was about to leave but before it took off, the mantis suddenly moved forward and then retreated.
I was terrified, fearing that the mantis would not be able to catch the cicada.
Is this what is called killing the heart shaped by the sound? Cai Yong smiled and said: That's true.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
中平六年，灵帝崩，董卓为司空，闻邕名高，辟之，称疾不就。
卓大怒，詈曰 我力能族人，蔡邕遂偃蹇者，不旋踵矣 又切敕州郡举邕诣府，邕不得已，到，署祭酒，甚见敬重。
举高第，补侍御史，又转持书御史，迁尚书。
三日之间，周历三台。
迁巴郡太守，复留为侍中。
初平元年，拜左中郎将，从献帝迁都长安，封高阳乡侯。
董卓宾客部典议欲尊卓比太公，称尚父。
卓谋之于邕，邕曰 太公辅周，受命剪商，故特为其号。
今明公威德，诚为巍巍，然比之尚父，愚意以为未可宜须并东平定，车驾还反旧京，然后议之 卓从其言。
二年六月，地震，卓以问邕。
邕对曰 地动者，阴盛侵阳，臣下逾制之所致也。
前春郊天，公奉引车驾，乘金华青盖，爪画两轓，远近以为非宜 卓于是改乘皂盖车。
卓重邕才学，厚相遇待，每集宴，辄令邕鼓琴赞事，邕亦每存匡益。
然卓多自佷用，邕恨其言少从，谓从弟谷曰 董公性刚而遂非，终难济也，吾欲东奔兖州，若道远难达，且遁逃山东以待之，何如 谷曰 君状异恒人，每行观者盈集。
以此自匿，不亦难乎 邕乃止。及卓被诛，邕在司徒王允坐，殊不意言之而叹，有动于色。
允勃然叱之曰 董卓国之大贼，几倾汉室。君为王臣，所宜同忿，而怀其私遇，以忘大节。今天诛有罪，而反相伤痛，岂不共为逆哉 即收付廷尉治罪。
邕陈辞谢，乞黥首刖足，继成汉史。
translation: 
In the sixth year of Zhongping, Emperor Ling died and Dong Zhuo became Sikong. Hearing that Cai Yong was famous, he recruited him, but Cai Yong said he was ill and could not go.
Dong Zhuo was furious and cursed: "I have the right to kill people. Even if Cai Yong is proud, it can only be done in a moment's notice."
He also urgently ordered the prefectures and counties to recruit Cai Yong to the government. Cai Yong had no choice but to come and serve as an agent for offering wine. He was highly respected and promoted to a high position, supplementing the position of serving as the censor.
In three days, we visited three stations.
The prefect of Shengba County was left as a servant.
In the first year of Chuping, he worshiped General Zuo Zhonglang, moved the capital from Emperor Xian to Chang'an, and was granted the title of Marquis of Gaoyang Township.
Dong Zhuo's guests and subordinates wanted to respect Dong Zhuo more than the Grand Duke and call him Shangfu.
Dong Zhuo asked Cai Yong, and Cai Yong said: Taigong assisted Zhou and was ordered to destroy Shang, so he was named Taigong.
Now, although your mighty virtue is high, I think it is not enough to compare with that of my father. Wait until Guandong is pacified and the emperor returns to the old capital, and then we can discuss it again. Dong Zhuo listened to him.
In June of the second year of Chuping, there was an earthquake. Dong Zhuo asked Cai Yong.
Cai Yong said to him: "The earthquake caused the yin to invade the yang, and the ministers did not abide by the national system."
In the spring of last year, during a ritual ceremony in the suburbs, the public servants drove a chariot with a golden flower and a green cover, and painted two boxes with claws on them, which was considered inappropriate by both the far and near people. Dong Zhuo then took the Zaogai chariot instead.
Dong Zhuo valued Cai Yong's talents and was very polite to him. Whenever he held a banquet, he would often ask Cai Yong to play the piano and play the harp, and Cai Yong was also willing to contribute.
However, Dong Zhuo was too headstrong for his own use. Cai Yong hated that his words were seldom accepted by Dong Zhuo. He said to his younger brother Cai Gu: Mr. Dong has a strong character and is prone to wrongdoing. In the end, he will never achieve anything. I want to go east to Yanzhou, but the road is too far and difficult to reach. How about temporarily escaping to Shandong? Cai Gu said: Your appearance is different from that of ordinary people. When you walk on the road, people gather to see you. It is difficult to hide like this!
Cai Yongnai gave up the idea. When Dong Zhuo was executed, Cai Yong was sitting at Situ Wang Yun's house. He unknowingly talked about Dong Zhuo, sighed for it, and his face changed.
Wang Yun was furious and scolded Cai Yong: "Dong Zhuo is a great thief who almost destroyed the Han Dynasty. As a minister, you should be as angry as everyone else. Just because he was good to you, you actually lost your important relationship. Now that he is guilty of killing, you are sad and mourning. Aren't you complicit in his rebellion?" He was arrested and handed over to Tingwei for interrogation.
Cai Yong admitted his guilt and asked to have his head and legs tattooed and his life spared so that he could continue to write the history of Han Dynasty.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
士大夫多矜救之，不能得。
太尉马日磾驰往谓允曰 伯喈旷世逸才，多识汉事，当续成后史，为一代大典。
且忠孝素著，而所坐无名，诛之无乃失人望乎 允曰 昔武帝不杀司马迁，使作谤书，流于后世。
方今国祚中衰，神器不固，不可令佞臣执笔在幼主左右。
既无益圣德，复使吾党蒙其讪议 日磾退而告人曰 王公其不长世乎。
善人，国之纪也。制作，国之典也。
灭纪废典，其能久乎 邕遂死狱中。
允悔，欲止而不及。
时年六十一。
搢绅诸儒莫不流涕。
北海郑玄闻而叹曰 汉世之事，谁与正之 兖州、陈留间皆画像而颂焉。
其撰集汉事，未见录以继后史。
适作《灵纪》及十意，又补诸列传四十二篇，因李傕之乱，湮没多不存。
所著诗、赋、碑、诔、铭、赞、连珠、箴、吊、论议、《独断》、《劝学》、《释诲》、《叙乐》、《女训》、《篆艺》、祝文、章表、书记，凡百四篇，传于世。
论曰：意气之感，士所不能忘也。
流极之运，有生所共深悲也。
当伯喈抱钳扭，徙幽裔，仰日月而不见照烛，临风尘而不得经过，其意岂及语平日幸全人哉。
translation: 
Many scholar-officials took pity on him and rescued him, but to no avail.
Taiwei Ma Rishidan ran to Wang Yun and said: Bo Zhe has unparalleled talent and knows a lot about the affairs of the Han Dynasty. He can continue to write the history of the Later Han Dynasty, which is an important classic of the generation.
He has always been loyal and filial, so if he is killed for an unjust crime, I am afraid he will lose the hearts of the people! Wang Yun said: In the past, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty did not kill Sima Qian, so he made him write a slanderous letter and spread it to future generations.
Now that the fate of the country is in decline and the throne is unstable, we cannot let flatterers control the young master.
It is not good for the emperor, and people like us will also be attacked by him. Ma Rishidan came out and told others: The prince's vision is too short-sighted!
A good man, a role model for the country, a book, a celebration of the country.
Can the eradication of disciplines and laws last long? Cai Yong actually died in prison.
Later, Wang Yun regretted it and it was too late not to kill him.
Cai Yong was sixty-one years old when he died.
All the scholar-bureaucrats and Confucian scholars shed tears.
When Zheng Xuan of Beihai heard that Cai Yong was dead, he sighed and said: Who will decide the affairs of the Han Dynasty? Both Yanzhou and Chen Liujian painted portraits of Cai Yong to commemorate him.
He collected the history of the Han Dynasty, but did not see it written down for posterity.
Only the "Ling Ji" and the Ten Meanings, as well as 42 supplementary biographies, were lost due to Li Jizuo's chaos, and most of them have not been preserved.
He wrote poems, poems, steles, poems, inscriptions, praises, lianzhu, proverbs, condolences, discussions, "Doctrine", "Encouragement to Learning", "Explanation of Teachings", "Xuyue", "Women's Training", "Zhuan Zhi", blessings, chapters and secretaries, a total of 104 articles, which have been handed down to the world.
The historian commented: People with knowledge and moral cultivation will never forget the emotional connection between people.
The fate of exile is the most tragic thing in life.
When Bozhe was relegated to a remote place with his guilt in his arms, he couldn't see the light of the sun and moon when he raised his head, and he couldn't avoid the wind and dust when he walked. Did he ever think of the people he was close to in daily life?


Chunk 12: 
original: 
及解刑衣，窜欧越，潜舟江壑，不知其远，捷步深林，尚苦不密，但愿北首旧丘，归骸先垄，又可得乎。
董卓一旦入朝，辟书先下，分明枉结，信宿三迁。
匡导既申，狂僭屡革，资《同人》之先号，得北叟之后福。
屡其庆者，夫岂无怀。
君子断刑，尚或为之不举，况国宪仓卒，虑不先图，矜情变容，而罚同邪党。
执政乃追怨子长谤书流后，放此为戮，未或闻之典刑。
translation: 
When he was pardoned and returned to his county, he had to flee far away.
Boating secretly in the river, regardless of distance; running in the deep forest, worrying that the trees are not dense. He just wanted to return to his hometown and bury his ancestors' bones next to their graves, but he couldn't find it. Once Dong Zhuo entered the court, he first ordered him to be recruited, sorted out the wrongdoers, and was promoted three times in three days.
Assistance is meritorious, and arrogant and unreasonable things are often eliminated. This is really what "Yi Tongren Gua" said: "Speak first and then laugh."
How can you know that it is a blessing in disguise?
How could he not miss those who were kind to him? An upright and selfless person can't even eat when he executes a criminal, not to mention the country's criminal code, which is out of haste and without thinking in advance, and even shows mercy. How can it be treated as treason and evil?
The politicians actually complained about Sima Qian's slanderous letter and spread it to later generations. Based on this, they wanted to kill Cai Yong. I have never heard of such execution of criminal law.


