Chunk 0: 
original: 
邓彪张禹徐防张敏胡广邓彪字智伯，南阳新野人，太傅禹之宗也。父邯，中兴初以功封鄳侯，仕至勃海太守。
彪少励志，修孝行。
父卒，让国于异母弟荆凤，显宗高其节，下诏许焉。
后仕州郡，辟公府，五迁桂阳太守。
永平十七年，征入为太仆。
数年，丧后母，辞疾乞身，诏以光禄大夫行服。服竟，拜奉车都尉，迁大司农。
数月，代鲍昱为太尉。
彪在位清白，为百僚式。
视事四年，以疾乞骸骨。
元和元年，赐策罢，赠钱三十万，在所以二千石奉终其身。
又诏太常四时致宗庙之胙，河南尹遣丞存问，常以八月旦奉羊、酒。
和帝即位，以彪为太傅，录尚书事，赐爵关内侯。
永元初，窦氏专权骄纵，朝廷多有谏争，而彪在位修身而已，不能有所匡正。
又尝奏免御史中丞周纡，纡前失窦氏旨，故颇以此致讥，然当时宗其礼让。
及窦氏诛，以老病上还枢机职，诏赐养牛、酒而许焉。
五年春，薨于位，天子新临吊临。
张禹字伯达，赵国襄国人也。
祖父况族姊为皇祖考夫人，数往来南顿，见光武。
光武为大司马，过邯郸，况为郡吏，谒见光武。
光武大喜，曰： 乃今得我大舅乎！
因与俱北，到高邑，以为元氏令。
迁涿郡太守。
后为常山关长。
会赤眉攻关城，况战殁。
父歆，初以报仇逃亡，后仕为淮阳相，终于汲令。
禹性笃厚节俭。
父卒，汲吏人赙送前后数百万，悉无所受。
又以田宅推与伯父，身自寄止。
永平八年，举孝廉，稍迁；建初中，拜杨州刺史。
translation: 
◆Deng Biao's biography, Deng Biao's courtesy name was Zhibo, a native of Nanyang, the same clan as Taifu Deng Yuzhi, his father was Deng Han. In the early days of the Zhongxing Dynasty, he was granted the title of Marquis of Monument due to his meritorious service, and his official position was the Prefect of Bohai Sea.
When Deng Biao was young, he focused on inspiration and practicing filial piety.
After his father died, he left the country to his half-brother Jing Feng. Emperor Xianzong believed that his character was noble and he issued an edict to agree to it.
Deng Biao later served as an official in prefectures and counties, was promoted to the government, and moved to Guiyang for five years.
In the 17th year of Yongping's reign, he was recruited as a servant.
A few years later, his stepmother died and she left home due to illness. The imperial edict granted him the service of Guanglu Dafu. After completing his service, he was worshiped as the Captain of Fengche and promoted to Dasi Nong.
A few months later, he replaced Bao Yu as Taiwei.
When Deng Biao was in power, he was very clean and set an example for all officials.
After serving as an official for four years, he resigned due to illness.
In the first year of Yuanhe, he was dismissed from office, given 300,000 yuan as a gift, and lived with a salary of 2,000 dan for the rest of his life.
He also ordered Taichang to send the sacrificial meat from the ancestral temple in all seasons. The Cheng Cunwen of Yinpai County in Henan often sent sheep wine and other items on the first day of the eighth month.
Emperor He ascended the throne, appointed Deng Biao as Taifu, recorded the ministerial affairs, and granted him the title of Marquis of Guannei.
In the early years of Yongyuan, the Dou family was autocratic, arrogant and indulgent, and many people in the court criticized and disputed it. However, Deng Biao only cultivated himself in office and could not make any corrections.
He also once submitted a memorial to remove the censor Zhongcheng Zhou Yu. Zhou Yu failed to do so, so some people ridiculed him for this, but people at that time respected his courtesy.
When Dou was killed, Deng Biao returned to the cardinal position due to his old age and illness, and he was given permission to raise cattle and wine.
In the spring of the fifth year, he died in office, and the emperor came to his home to pay his respects.
◆Zhang Yu's biography, Zhang Yu's courtesy name was Boda, and he was a native of Zhao Guoxiang.
Grandfather Zhang Kuang's clan sister was the wife of Emperor Zukao. She traveled to Nanton many times and met Emperor Guangwu.
Guangwu was the Grand Sima and passed through Handan. Zhang Kuang was a county official and paid an audience with Guangwu.
Guangwu said happily: Now I have found my uncle!
So we went north together to Gaoyi, and used Kuang as the Yuan family order.
He was promoted to the governor of Zhuo County.
He also became the chief of Changshan Pass.
Just as the Red Eyebrow Army was attacking Guancheng, Zhang Kuang was killed.
His father, Zhang Xin, first fled for revenge. Later he became the Prime Minister of Huaiyang and died in the post of magistrate of Ji County.
Zhang Yu was honest and thrifty.
After his father's death, the officials in Ji County offered him millions in donations, but none of them were accepted.
He also gave the land and house to his uncle and stayed there by himself.
In the eighth year of Yongping, he was promoted to Xiaolian and promoted slightly. In the early years of Jianchu, he was appointed the governor of Yangzhou.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
当过江行部，中上人皆以江有子胥之神，难于济涉。
禹将度，吏固请不听。
禹厉言曰： 子胥如有灵，知吾志在理察枉讼，岂危我哉？
遂鼓楫而过。
历行郡邑，深幽之处莫不毕到，亲录囚徒，多所明举。
吏民希见使者，人怀喜悦，怨德美恶，莫不自归焉。
元和二年，转兗州刺史，亦有清平称。
三年，迁下邳相。
徐县北界有蒲阳坡，傍多良田，而堙废莫修。
禹为开水门，通引灌溉，遂成孰田数百顷。
劝率吏民，假与种粮，亲自勉劳，遂大收谷实。
邻郡贫者归之千余户，室庐相属，其下成市。
后岁至垦千余顷，民用温给。
功曹史戴闰，故太尉掾也，权动郡内。
有小谴，禹令自致徐狱，然后正其法。
自长史以下，莫不震肃。
永元六年，入为大司农，拜太尉，和帝甚礼之。
十五年，南巡祠园庙，禹以太尉兼卫尉留守。
闻车驾当进幸江陵，以为不宜冒险远，驿马上谏。
诏报曰： 祠谒既讫，当南礼大江，会得君奏，临汉回舆而旋。
及行还，禹持蒙赏赐。
延平元年，迁为太傅，录尚书事。
邓太后以殇帝初育，欲令重臣居禁内，乃诏禹舍宫中。给帷帐床褥，太官朝夕进食，五日一归府。
每朝见，特赞，与三公绝席。
禹上言： 方谅密静之时，不宜依常有事于苑囿。
其广成、上林空地，宜用以假贫民。
太后从之。
及安帝即位，数上疾乞身。诏遣小黄门问疾，赐牛一头，酒十斛，劝令就第。
其钱布、刀剑、衣物，前后累至。
translation: 
When he crossed the river for inspection, the people in China thought that the river had the god Zixu, making it difficult to cross the river.
When Yu was about to cross the river, the officials made a firm request, but Zhang Yu refused to listen.
And he said sternly: If Zixu has a spirit and knows that my purpose is to investigate unjust, false and wrong cases, will he still harm me?
So he paddled over.
After passing through counties and cities, he went to all the remote places and personally interrogated the prisoners. Many cases were understood and dealt with.
The officials and the people rarely see the messengers, and the people are happy and complain about the good and the bad, and they all return home.
In the second year of Yuanhe, he was transferred to the governor of Yanzhou, and he also had the reputation of Qingping.
Three years later, he was promoted to Xiapi Prime Minister.
There is Puyangpo in the northern boundary of Xu County. There are many fertile fields nearby, but they are abandoned and no one is cultivating them.
Zhang Yu opened the water gate for them and directed irrigation, and hundreds of hectares of mature farmland became available.
He persuaded and led the officials, lent them seeds, and personally encouraged them to work, so that they could reap abundant harvests.
More than a thousand impoverished households from neighboring counties were relocated, and the houses were connected together, forming a market below.
Later, more than a thousand hectares were reclaimed every year, and the people were able to provide themselves with food and clothing.
Shi Dairun, a meritorious officer, was an old Taiwei official and had great power in the county.
If there was a small reproach, Zhang Yu asked him to surrender himself to Xu Prison and then punish him.
Since the beginning of history, everyone has been shocked and respected.
In the sixth year of Yongyuan, he entered the imperial court and became the Grand Sima, worshiped as Taiwei, and Emperor He treated him politely.
In the fifteenth year, the emperor visited the ancestral temple in the south, and Zhang Yu stayed behind as a Taiwei and a guard.
Hearing that the chariot was about to enter Jiangling, Zhang Yu thought that he should not take the risk of traveling far, so he immediately advised him.
The imperial edict said: "The visit to the temple has been completed. We should go to the south to offer sacrifices to Dajiang. After receiving your memorial, we should go to the Han River to return home."
After returning to the court, Zhang Yu was rewarded.
In the first year of Yanping, Zhang Yu was promoted to Taifu and recorded the affairs of the minister.
Because the Emperor Shang was born, the Empress Dowager Deng wanted to have the important officials live in the forbidden area, so she issued an edict to ask Yu to live in the palace, provide curtains and beds, and make the officials eat in the morning and evening, and return home once every five days.
Every time I go to court, I give special praise and have a special dinner with the three princes.
Zhang Yu said: "When the house is fierce and quiet, it is not appropriate to do business in the garden as usual."
Open spaces such as Guangcheng and Shanglin should be temporarily allocated to the poor.
The Queen Mother obeyed.
When Emperor An came to the throne, Zhang Yu petitioned several times to resign. He sent an imperial edict to Xiaohuangmen to inquire about his illness. He was given an ox and ten dendrobiums of wine, and was advised to recuperate.
They also sent money, cloth, swords, and clothes many times.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
永初元年，以定策功封安乡侯，食邑千二百户，与太尉徐防、司空尹勤同日俱封。
其秋，以寇贼水雨策免防、勤，而禹不自安，上书乞骸骨，更拜太尉。
四年，新野君病，皇太后车驾幸其第。
禹与司徒夏勤、司空张敏俱上表言： 新野君不安，车驾连日宿止，臣等诚窃惶惧。
臣闻王者动设先置，止则交戟，清道而后行，清室而后御，离宫不宿，所以重宿卫也。
陛下体烝烝之至孝，亲省方药，恩情发中，久处单外，百官露止，议者所不安。
宜且还宫，上为宗庙社稷，下为万国子民。
比三上，固争，乃还宫。
后连岁灾荒，府藏空虚，禹上疏求入三岁租税，以助郡国禀假。
诏许之。
五年，以阴阳不和策免。
七年，卒于家。
使者吊祭。
除小子为郎中。
长子盛嗣。
徐防字谒卿，沛国铚人也。
祖父宣，为讲学大夫，以《易》教授王莽。
父宪，亦传宣业。
防少习父祖学，永平中，举孝廉，除为郎。
防体貌矜严，占对可观，显宗异之，特补尚书郎。
职典枢机，周密畏慎，奉事二帝，未尝有过。
和帝时，稍迁司隶校尉，出为魏郡太守。
永元十年，迁少府、大司农。
防勤晓政事，所在有迹。
十四年，拜司空。
防以《五经》久远，圣意难明，宜为章句，以悟后学。
上疏曰：臣闻《诗》、《书》、《礼》、《乐》，定自孔子；发明章句，始于子夏。
其后诸家分析，各有异说。
汉承乱秦，经典废绝，本文略存，或无章句。
收拾缺遗，建立明经，博征儒术，开置太学。
translation: 
In the first year of Yongchu, Zhang Yu was granted the title of Marquis of Anxiang due to his merits in making decisions, with a settlement of 1,200 households. He was granted the title on the same day as Taiwei Xu Fang and Sikong Yinqin.
In the autumn of this year, Xu Fang and Yin Qin were dismissed from their posts due to water and rain disasters by bandits. Zhang Yu felt uneasy and wrote a letter requesting to resign and be promoted to Taiwei.
Four years later, Queen Mother Deng's mother, Yinshi, fell ill, and the Queen Mother drove to her residence.
Zhang Yu, Situ Xiaqin, and Sikong Zhang Min all came forward and said: Mr. Xinye was uneasy and drove his car to stay at her place for several days. The ministers and others were very frightened.
I heard that when the king goes out, he must make arrangements first, and when he stays, he must be protected by the men of Drogo. He clears the road and then walks, cleans the house and then stays, and leaves the palace without staying overnight. In order to pay attention to the protection.
Your Majesty has a filial piety, and his kindness comes from the heart. When he is away for a long time, all the officials are exposed, and the deputies feel uneasy.
You should return to the palace temporarily, for the sake of the ancestral temple and the country at the top, and for the people of all nations at the bottom.
After three consecutive performances, he returned to the palace after struggling.
Later, there were successive years of famine and the government was empty. Zhang Yu asked to collect taxes for three years to help the county with food and loans.
The imperial edict allowed it.
Five years later, he was dismissed because of the disharmony between yin and yang.
Seven years later, he died at home.
The imperial court sent envoys to pay tribute.
In addition to his youngest son Zhang Yao, he was the doctor.
The eldest son Zhang Sheng was the heir.
◆Xu Fang's biography, Xu Fang's courtesy name is Ye Qing, and he is the best person in the state of Pei.
My grandfather Xu Xuan was a lecturer and taught Wang Mang the Book of Changes.
His father Xu Xian also taught Xu Xuan his career.
Xu Fang learned from his father and grandfather when he was young. During the Yongping period, he was promoted to Xiaolian and was promoted to Lang.
Xu Fang's physical appearance was reserved and serious, and his appearance was impressive. Xianzong thought it was very strange, and specially appointed him as Shangshulang.
The duty is to be in charge of secrets, to be carried out with thoroughness and prudence, to serve the two emperors without any fault.
During the reign of Emperor He, he was promoted to Sili Xiaowei and became the prefect of Wei County.
In the tenth year of Yongyuan's reign, he was promoted to Shaofu and DaSinong.
Xu Fang is diligent in political affairs and has made achievements in every position.
In the fourteenth year, he became Sikong.
Xu Fang believed that the "Five Classics" were ancient and difficult to understand the sacred meaning. Some explanations should be given to make it easier for future students to learn.
Shangshu Dao: I heard that "Poems", "Books", "Rites", and "Music" are all derived from Confucius, and the invention of chapters and sentences began with Zixia.
In the future, each analysis will give different opinions.
After the Han Dynasty succeeded the Qin Dynasty, the classics have been abolished. Only a few chapters of this text remain, and some have no chapters or sentences.
He sorted out the missing things, established the Ming Dynasty, studied Confucianism, and established the Imperial Academy.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
孔圣既远，微旨将绝，故立博士十有四家，设甲乙之科，以勉劝学者，所以示人好恶，改敝就善者也。
伏见太学试博士弟子，皆以意说，不修家法，私相容隐，开生奸路。
每有策试，辄兴诤讼，论议纷错，互相是非。
孔子称 述而不作 ，又曰 吾犹及史之阙文 ，疾史有所不知而不肯阙也。
今不依章句，妄生穿凿，以遵师为非义，意说为得理，轻侮道术，浸以成俗，诚非诏书实选本意。
改薄从忠，三代常道，专精务本，儒学所先。
臣以为博士及甲乙策试，宜从其家章句，开五十难以试之。
解释多者为上第，引文明者为高说：若不依先师，义有相伐，皆正以为非。
《五经》各取上第六人，《论语》不宜谢策。
虽所失或久，差可矫革。
诏书下公卿，皆从防言。
十六年，拜为司徒。延平元年，迁太尉，与太傅张禹参录尚书事，数受赏赐，甚见优宠。
安帝即位，以定策封龙乡侯。
食邑千一百户。
其年以灾异寇贼策免，就国。
凡三公以灾异策免，始自防也。
防卒，子衡当嗣，让封于其弟崇。
数岁，不得已，乃出就爵云。
张敏字伯达，河间人也。
建初二年，举孝廉，四迁，五年，为尚书。
建初中，有人侮辱人父者，而其子杀之，肃宗贳其死刑而降宥之，自后因以为比。
是时遂定其议，以为《轻侮法》。
敏驳议曰：夫《轻侮》之法，先帝一切之恩，不有成科班之律令也。
夫死生之决，宜从上下，犹天之四时，有生有杀。
若开相容恕，著为定法者，则是故设奸萌，生长罪隙。
孔子曰： 民可使由之，不可使知之。
《春秋》之义，子不报仇，非子也。
而法令不为之减者，以相杀之路不可开故也。
今托义者得减，妄杀者有差，使执宪之吏得设巧诈，非所以导 在丑不争 之义。
又《轻侮》之比，浸以繁滋，至有四五百科，转相顾望，弥复增甚，难以垂之万载。
臣闻师言： 救文莫如质。
故高帝去烦苛之法，为三章之约。
建初诏书，有改于古者，可下三公、廷尉蠲除其敝。
议寝不省。
translation: 
The sage Confucius has gone far away, and his subtle will will be lost, so ten and four schools of doctors were established, with subjects A and B to encourage scholars. The purpose is to tell people what good and evil are and how to correct them and become kind people.
When I saw the doctoral students who took the imperial examination, they all said that they did not practice family law, tolerated private affairs, and started to commit adultery.
Every time a strategy was tried, there were lawsuits, mixed discussions, and accusations of right and wrong.
Confucius said that he should state without compiling, and he also said, "I am still as good as the master of history. I hate that I don't know something about history and refuse to omit it."
Nowadays, instead of following the rules and sentences, they think that it is illegal to follow the teacher, they think it is reasonable, and they despise Taoism. This has gradually become a custom. It is indeed not the original intention of the imperial edict.
Change from thin to loyal, this is the common way of the three generations, focusing on the basics, pioneered by Confucianism.
I think that for the examination of doctors and A and B, fifty difficult questions should be set up based on famous scholars' chapters and verses to test scholars.
Those who explain more are promoted to superior, and those who cite clear quotations are regarded as high. If they do not follow the predecessors and their meanings are self-contradictory, they are all wrong.
The "Five Classics" each selects the best six people, and the "Analects" is not suitable for shooting strategies.
Even if it has been lost for a long time, some mistakes can be corrected.
When issuing edicts to ministers, they all followed Xu Fang's instructions.
In the 16th year, Xu Fang became a Situ. In the first year of Yanping, he was promoted to a Taiwei. He participated in the records of Shangshu affairs with Taifu Zhang Yu, and received several rewards and favors.
Emperor An ascended the throne and made a decision to ennoble Longxiang Marquis.
There are one thousand and one hundred households in the city.
This year, he was dismissed from office due to disasters and bandits. Return to the fief.
All the three ministers who were exempted from disasters started with Xu Fang.
After Xu Fang's death, his son Xu Heng became the heir and was granted the title to his younger brother Xu Chong.
A few years later, as a last resort, he became a knight.
◆Zhang Min's biography, Zhang Min's courtesy name was Boda, and he was a native of Molan, Hejian.
In the second year of Jianchu, he was promoted to Xiaolian, promoted four times, and became minister in five years.
During the early years of Jianchu, someone insulted someone's father, and that person's son killed him. Suzong condoned his death sentence and demoted him to a lower level. From then on, this incident was used as an example.
It was then that the decision was made and the "Insult Law" was enacted.
Zhang Min retorted: "The law of "contempt" and all the favors of the late emperor have no laws and regulations.
The judgment of life and death should be made from top to bottom, just like there are four seasons in heaven, with life and death.
If tolerance and forgiveness are established, this is deliberately setting up adultery and promoting sin.
Confucius said: The people can follow it, but they cannot know it.
The meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is that if a son does not take revenge, he is not a son.
However, the law did not reduce his sentence because the road to killing each other was not open.
Nowadays, the sentence can be reduced under the pretense of righteous indignation, and there is a distinction between random killings, so that the officials who enforce the law can devise clever deceptions.
In addition, the number of "Insults" gradually increased, and there were four or five encyclopedias. Looking at each other, there were more and more, and it was difficult to spread for thousands of years.
I heard the teacher say: It is better to save a text than to save it.
Therefore, Emperor Gao removed the complicated laws and made three chapters of the law.
If there are any edicts issued in the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China that have been revised from ancient times, you can send the Sangong and Tingwei to get rid of them.
It's just discussion without being examined.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
敏复上疏曰：臣敏蒙恩，特见拔擢，愚心所不晓，迷意所不解，诚不敢苟随众议。
臣伏见孔子垂经典，皋陶造法律，原其本意，皆欲禁民为非也。
未晓《轻侮》之法将以何禁？
必不能使不相轻侮，而更开相杀之路，执宪之吏复容其奸枉。
议者或曰： 平法当先论生。
臣愚以为天地之性，唯人为贵，杀人者死，三代通制。
今欲趣生，反开杀路，一人不死，天下受敝。
记曰： 利一害百，人去城郭。
夫春生秋杀，天道之常。
春一物枯即为灾，秋一物华即为异。
王者承天地，顺四时，法圣人，从经律。
愿陛下留意下民，考寻利害，广令平议，天下幸甚。
和帝从之。
九年，拜司隶校尉。
视事二岁，迁汝南太守。
清约不烦，用刑平正，有理能名。
坐事免。
延平元年，拜议郎，再迁颍川太守。
永初元年，征拜司空，在位奉法而已。
视事三岁，以病乞身，不听。
六年春，行大射礼，陪位顿仆，乃策罢之。
因病笃，卒于家。
胡广字伯始，南郡华容人也。
六世祖刚，清高有志节。
平帝时，大司徒马宫辟之。
值王莽居摄，刚解其衣冠，县府门而去，遂亡命交阯，隐于屠肆之间。
后莽败，乃归乡里。
父贡，交阯都尉。
广少孤贫，亲执家苦。
长大，随辈入郡为散吏。
太守法雄之子真，从家来省其父。
真颇知人。
会岁终应举，雄敕真助其求才。
雄因大会诸吏，真自于牖间密占察之，乃指广以白雄，遂察孝廉。
既到京师，试以章奏，安帝以广为天下第一。
旬月拜尚书郎，五迁尚书仆射。
translation: 
Zhang Min went to Shudao again and said: "I have been favored and specially promoted. My foolish heart does not understand, my confusion does not understand, and I do not dare to agree with others' opinions casually."
I want to see Confucius hanging down the classics and Gao Tao making laws, and I can deduce that their original intention is to prevent the people from doing bad things.
Wonder what the "Insult" law would be used to prohibit?
It will definitely not make people not treat each other with contempt, but open the way to kill each other, and the officials who enforce the law will allow them to be treacherous.
Some commentators say: The common law should be discussed first.
I foolishly believe that in the nature of heaven and earth, only human beings are the most precious, and killing someone is punishable by death. This is the rule of the Three Generations.
Now I want to live, but instead open the way to death. If a person breaks the law and does not die, the whole world will suffer from him.
Ancient records say: One benefit can bring a hundred harms, so people go to the city walls.
Spring brings birth and autumn kills, the routine of heaven.
If something dies in spring, it is a disaster; if something blooms in autumn, it is a miracle.
The king inherits the heaven and the earth, follows the four seasons, takes the sages as the law, and takes the scriptures as the basis.
May your Majesty pay attention to the people below, consider the pros and cons, and let everyone comment on it, and the world will be very lucky.
He Di obeyed.
In the ninth year, Zhang Min was appointed as Sili Xiaowei.
Two years after taking office, he was promoted to the prefect of Runan.
Keep covenants clean and uncomplicated, use punishments fairly and upright, and be reasonable and reputable.
Later he was dismissed due to circumstances.
In the first year of Yanping, he was promoted to Yilang and then to the prefect of Yingchuan.
In the first year of Yongchu, he was recruited as Sikong, and he only served in accordance with the law.
After three years of service, he requested to retire due to illness. The emperor didn't listen.
In the spring of the sixth year, during the grand shooting ceremony, his companion suddenly fell down, and Cai Ce was dismissed.
He died at home due to serious illness.
◆Hu Guangchuan, courtesy name Boshi, was a native of Huarong, Nanjun.
Hu Gang, the sixth generation ancestor, was a man of high moral integrity and integrity.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, he was selected by the Great Situ Ma Palace.
When Wang Mang was regent, Hu Gang took off his clothes and hung up the door of the palace. Then he fled to Jiaochang and hid among the slaughterhouses.
Later, Wang Mang failed and returned to his hometown.
His father, Hu Gong, served as the commander-in-chief of Jiaozhi.
Hu Guang was lonely and poor when he was young and did housework by himself.
When he grew up, he followed his elders and joined the county as a casual official.
Fazhen, the son of the prefect Faxiong, came from home to visit his father.
The truth of the law is quite knowledgeable.
Faxiong ordered Fazhen to help him select talents when he was due to take the year-end exam.
Faxiong then held a meeting with all the officials, and Fazhen himself observed from the window, so he pointed Hu Guang to warn Faxiong and inspected his filial piety and integrity.
After arriving in the capital, he was tested by Zhang Zhi. Emperor An regarded Hu Guang as the best in the world.
In the tenth month, he was promoted to Shangshulang and was promoted to Shangshu Pushe five times.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
顺帝欲立皇后，而贵人有宠者四人，莫知所建，议欲探筹，以神定选。
广与尚书郭虔、史敞上疏谏曰： 窃见诏书以立后事大，谦不自专，欲假之筹策，决疑灵神。
篇籍所记，祖宗典故，未尝有也。
恃神任筮，既不必当贤；就值其人，犹非德选。
夫岐嶷形于自然，伣天必有异表。
宜参良家，简求有德，德同以年，年钧以貌，稽之典经，断之圣虑。
政令犹汗，往而不反。
诏文一下，形之四方。
臣职在拾遗，忧深责重，是以焦心，冒昧陈闻。
帝从之，以梁贵人良家子，定立为皇后。
时，尚书令左雄议改察举之制，限年四十以上，儒者试经学，文吏试章奏。
广复与敞、虔止书驳之，曰：臣闻君以兼览博照为德，臣以献可替否为忠。
《书》载稽疑，谋及卿士；《诗》美先人，询于刍荛。
国有大政，必议之于前训，咨之于故老，是以虑无失策，举无过事，窃见尚书令左雄议郡举孝廉，皆限年四十以上，诸生试章句，文吏试笺奏。
明诏既许，复令臣等得与相参。
窃惟王命之重，载在篇典，当令县于日月，固于金石，遗则百王，施之万世。
《诗》云： 天难谌斯，不易惟王。
可不慎与！
盖选举因才，无拘定制。六奇之策，不出经学；郑、阿之政，非必章奏。
甘、奇显用，年乖强仕；终、贾扬声，亦在弱冠。
汉承周、秦，兼览殷、夏，祖德师经，参杂霸轨，圣主贤臣，世以致理，贡举之制，莫或回革。
今以一臣之言，划戾旧章，便利未明，众心不。
translation: 
Emperor Shun wanted to make a queen, but among the nobles there were four favored ones. He didn't know who to make, so he decided to draw lots and ask God to choose the queen.
Hu Guang, together with Shangshu Guo Qian and Shi Chang, went to the court to remonstrate: I saw the imperial edict privately and thought that establishing a queen was a major event. I was humble and refused to make my own decision. I wanted to use the method of drawing lots to ask God to resolve the doubts.
There are no ancestral allusions recorded in ancient books.
Relying on gods and witches may not necessarily find wise men, but even if you meet such people, you are not choosing people based on virtue.
Human appearance comes from nature, so there must be different appearances in heaven.
We should refer to good families and choose virtuous people. If they have the same virtues, they should look at their age. If they are equal in age, they should look at their appearance. They should consider the classics and judge from the saints.
Government orders are like sweating. Once they come out, they cannot be taken back.
Once the edict was issued, it was seen everywhere.
The minister's duty is to collect lost things, and he is deeply concerned about the responsibility, so he is anxious and ventures to state his opinions.
The emperor obeyed and appointed Liang Guiren, a woman from a good family, as his queen.
At that time, Zuo Xiong, the official secretary of the Ministry of Finance, proposed to reform the system of examination and examination. The age limit should be above forty years old. Confucian scholars should be tested for classics and literary officials should be tested for zhangzou.
Hu Guang also wrote a letter to Chang and Qian to refute: I have heard that the kings consider it a virtue to read and take photos at the same time. Is it true for the ministers to show loyalty to them?
The "Book of Books" contains accounts of correcting doubts and seeking advice from ministers; the "Book of Songs" contains examples of praising ancestors and consulting woodcutter people.
When it comes to state-owned policies, we must examine the past history and ask old people, so that we can make sure we make no mistakes and make mistakes. We see that the minister ordered Zuo Xiong to discuss the county promotion of filial piety and integrity, and the age limit was over forty. Students were tested for chapters and sentences, and civil servants were tested for pieces and memorials.
The imperial edict of the Ming Dynasty has approved it, and the ministers and other ministers have been asked to provide advice.
Thinking of the importance of the king's destiny, which is written in the canon, it should be hung in the sun and moon, solidified in gold and stone, passed down to hundreds of kings, and passed down to the ages.
"The Book of Songs" says: It is difficult for Heaven to challenge Chen Si, and it is not easy to be the king.
Aren't you cautious?
In general, when selecting talents, we cannot stick to customization. Chen Ping's Six Wonders of Strategy did not come from Confucian classics; Zheng Guozi Chan entered politics, and Yan Zi transformed Dong'a without relying on Zhang Zou.
Gan Luo was the prime minister at the age of twelve, and Zi Qi was transformed into Dong'a at the age of eighteen, both of whom were young and showed their talents; Tong Jun and Jia Yi were famous, but they were also in their weak years.
The Han Dynasty inherited the Zhou and Qin Dynasties, and also studied the Yin and Xia Dynasties. The ancestral virtues and classics were mixed with the rule of kings and hegemons. The sage masters and virtuous ministers were responsible for the world, and the tribute system did not change much.
Now, with the words of a minister, the benefits of reforming the old constitution are not obvious, and the people are not convinced.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
矫枉变常，政之所重，而不访台司，不谋卿士。
若事下之后，议者剥异，异之则朝失其便，同之则王言已行。
臣愚以为可宣下百官，参其同异，然后览择胜否，详采厥衷。
敢以瞽言，冒干天禁，惟陛下纳焉。
帝不从。
时，陈留郡缺职，尚书史敞等荐广。
曰： 臣闻德以旌贤，爵以建事， 明试以功 《典谟》所美， 五服五章 ，天秩所作，是以臣竭其忠，君丰其宠，举不失德，下忘其死。
窃见尚书仆射胡广，体真履规，谦虚温雅，博物洽闻，探赜穷理，《六经》典奥，旧章宪式，无所不览。
柔而不犯，文而有礼，忠贞之性，忧公如家。
不矜其能，不伐其劳，翼翼周慎，行靡玷漏。
密勿夙夜，十有余年，心不外顾，志不苟进。
臣等窃以为广在尚书，劬劳日久，后母年老，既蒙简照，宜试职千里，匡宁方国。
陈留近郡，今太守任缺。
广才略深茂，堪能拨烦，愿以参选，纪纲颓俗，使束脩守善，有所劝仰。
广典机事十年，出为济阴太守，以举吏不实免。
复为汝南太守，入拜大司农。
汉安元年，迁司徒。
质帝崩，代李固为太尉，录尚书事。
以定策立桓帝，封育阳安乐乡侯。
以病逊位。
又拜司空，告老致仕。
寻以特进征拜太常，迁太尉，以日食免。
复为太常，拜太尉。
延熹二年，大将军梁冀诛，广与司徒韩縯、司空孙朗坐不卫宫，皆减死一等，夺爵土，免为庶人。
后拜太中大夫、太常。
九年，复拜司徒。
灵帝立，与太傅陈蕃参录尚书事，复封故国。
以病自乞。
会蕃被诛，代为太傅，总录如故。
translation: 
It is the most important thing to correct the situation, not to visit the Taiwan Affairs Bureau, and not to seek help from the ministers.
If the document is issued and the discussants have different views and disagree, it will be inconvenient for the court to exercise it. If they agree, the king's words have been fulfilled.
Chen Yu thought that we could declare hundreds of officials, refer to their similarities and differences, and then decide whether they would win or not, and take a detailed look at their core parts.
If you dare to tell nonsense and violate the heavenly prohibition, I hope your majesty will accept it.
The emperor did not listen.
At that time, Chenliu County was vacant, so Shangshu Shichang and others recommended Hu Guang.
The memorial said: I have heard that virtuous people are recognized by virtue, noble titles are used to build things, and outstanding trials are recognized by merit. It is praised in "Dian Mo" and has five chapters in five chapters. It is written by Tianzhi. Therefore, I will do my best to be loyal, the king will favor him, my actions will not lose virtue, and I will forget about his death.
Privately, I saw Hu Guang, the minister of public affairs, be true to the rules, modest and elegant, well-versed in knowledge, and thoroughly studied its principles. He read everything in the Six Classics and the old constitutions.
Be gentle but not guilty of injustice, be civilized and polite, be loyal, and worry about public affairs as well as home.
Don't praise your abilities, don't undervalue your efforts, be cautious and thoughtful, and behave without mistakes.
I have worked hard morning and night, for more than ten years, without caring about anything else, and with an unswerving ambition.
The ministers believed that Hu Guang worked hard for a long time in the position of minister. Later, when his mother was old, he was taken care of by Jianzhao.
Chen Liu was close to the county, and now the prefect is in vacancy.
Hu Guang has profound talents and is able to get rid of troubles. He is willing to participate in the election to correct the decadent customs, make people practice good and encourage them.
Hu Guang stayed in power for ten years and became the prefect of Jiyin. He was dismissed for making false promises in appointing officials.
He also became the prefect of Runan and went to worship Da Sinong.
In the first year of Han'an, he was promoted to Situ.
After the death of Emperor Zhi, he took Li Gu's place as Taiwei and recorded the affairs of the minister.
Because of his decision, he established Emperor Huan and was granted the title of Marquis of Yuyang Anle Township.
Abdicated due to illness.
He paid homage to Sikong and returned home.
Soon after, he summoned Taichang to pay homage to Taichang and was promoted to Taiwei. He was dismissed due to the solar eclipse.
Return to Tai Chang and pay homage to the Taiwei.
In the second year of Yanxi, General Liang Ji was killed. Hu Guang, Situ Han Jinyin, and Sikong Sunlang committed the crime of not guarding the palace. They were all reduced to one level of death, seized the title, and were dismissed as commoners.
Later, he paid homage to Taizhong Dafu and Taichang.
In the ninth year, he worshiped Situ again.
Emperor Ling came to the throne, and together with Taifu Chen Fan, he recorded the affairs of the ministers and restored the title of his homeland.
Requested to retire due to illness.
When Chen Fan was killed, he took over as Taifu, and the general record remained the same.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
时年已八十，而心力克壮，继母在堂，朝夕瞻省，傍无几杖，言不称老。
及母卒，居丧尽哀，率礼无愆。
性温柔谨素，常逊言恭色。
达练事体，明解朝章。
虽无謇直之风，屡有补阙之益。
故京师谚曰： 万事不理问伯始，天下中庸有胡公。
及共李固定策，大议不全，又与中常侍丁肃婚姻，以此讥毁于时。
自在公台三十余年，历事六帝，礼任甚优，每逊位辞病，及免退田里，未尝满岁，辄复升时。
凡一履司空，再作司徒，三登太尉，又为太傅。
其所辟命，皆天下名士。
与故吏陈蕃、李咸并为三司。
蕃等每朝会，辄称疾避广，时人荣之。
年八十二，熹平元年薨。
使五官中朗将持节奉策赠太傅、安乐乡侯印绶，给东园梓器，谒者护丧事，赐冢茔于原陵，谥文恭侯，拜家一人为郎中。
故吏自公、卿、大夫、博士、议郎以下数百人，皆缞绖殡位，自终及葬。
汉兴以来，人臣之盛，未尝有也。
初，杨雄依《虞箴》作《十二州二十五官箴》，其九箴亡阙，后涿郡崔骃及子瑗又临邑侯刘駼增补十六篇，广复继作四篇，文甚典美。
乃悉撰次首目，为之解释，名曰《百官箴》，凡四十八篇。
其余所著诗、赋、铭、颂、箴、吊及诸解诂，凡二十篇。
熹平六年，灵帝思感旧德，乃图画广及太尉黄琼于省内，诏议郎蔡邕为其颂云。
translation: 
At this time, he was already eighty years old, but his mental strength was strong. The stepmother is in the hall, greeting her morning and evening, and there are only a few sticks by her side, and she does not say anything about her age.
After the mother's death, she was mourned and treated with courtesy.
He has a gentle and discreet personality, and is often polite and courteous.
Master the practice of affairs and understand the rules of the court clearly.
Although there is no tendency to be upright, it often has the benefit of making up for the shortcomings.
Therefore, the proverb of the capital says: Ignore everything and ask Bo Shi, there is only Hu Gong among the mediocre people in the world.
When he and Li Feng decided to make a plan, the discussion was not complete, and he married Ding Su, the official of the Central Committee. Therefore, he was ridiculed by the people at the time.
Hu Guang had been in Gongtai for more than 30 years, serving six emperors with excellent courtesy and appointments. Each time he abdicated his position, resigned from illness, and was dismissed and returned to the fields. Within a year, he was promoted again.
He served as Sikong once, Situ twice, Lieutenant Commander three times, and Tufu again.
The people he appointed were all famous people in the world.
Together with the old officials Chen Fan and Li Xian, they became the third division.
Chen Fan and others would often avoid Hu Guang by saying he was ill during every court meeting, which was considered an honor by people at the time.
In the eighty-second year of his reign, Xiping died in the first year of his reign.
The imperial court sent Wu Guanzhonglang, a general of five senses, to present a ribbon to the Taifu and the Marquis of Anle Township, with a ribbon, to the East Garden, to pay homage to the funeral, and to give a tomb to the original mausoleum.
Therefore, hundreds of officials, including dukes, ministers, doctors, doctors, and Yilang, all occupy funeral positions, from the time of death to the funeral.
Since the rise of the Han Dynasty, the prosperity of ministers has never been greater.
At first, Yang Xiong wrote "Twelve States and Twenty-Five Official Proverbs" based on "Yu Zhen", nine of which were lost. Later, Cui Mayin of Zhuo County and his son Cui Yuan added sixteen more chapters to Linyi Marquis Liu Mayu, and Hu Guang continued to write four more chapters. The writing is very elegant and beautiful.
So he compiled a catalog and explained it all, called "Baiguan Zhen", with a total of forty-eight chapters.
The remaining poems, poems, inscriptions, odes, proverbs, condolences and exegesis are twenty-two in total.
In the sixth year of Xiping, Emperor Ling thought about the old virtues, so he painted portraits of Hu Guang and Taiwei Huang Qiong in the province, and ordered Yilang Cai Yong to compose an ode to them.


