Chunk 0: 
original: 
自古受命而王，王者之兴何尝不以卜筮决於天命哉！
其於周尤甚，及秦可见。
代王之入，任於卜者。
太卜之起，由汉兴而有。
司马季主者，楚人也。
卜於长安东市。
宋忠为中大夫，贾谊为博士，同日俱出洗沐，相从论议，诵易先王圣人之道术，究遍人情，相视而叹。
贾谊曰： 吾闻古之圣人，不居朝廷，必在卜医之中。
今吾已见三公九卿朝士大夫，皆可知矣。
试之卜数中以观采。
二人即同舆而之市，游於卜肆中。
天新雨，道少人，司马季主间坐，弟子三四人侍，方辩天地之道，日月之运，阴阳吉凶之本。
二大夫再拜谒。
司马季主视其状貌，如类有知者，即礼之，使弟子延之坐。
坐定，司马季主复理前语，分别天地之终始，日月星辰之纪，差次仁义之际，列吉凶之符，语数千言，莫不顺理。
宋忠、贾谊瞿然而悟，猎缨正襟危坐，曰： 吾望先生之状，听先生之辞，小子窃观於世，未尝见也。
今何居之卑，何行之汙？
司马季主捧腹大笑曰： 观大夫类有道术者，今何言之陋也，何辞之野也！
今夫子所贤者何也？
所高者谁也？
今何以卑汙长者？
二君曰： 尊官厚禄，世之所高也，贤才处之。
今所处非其地，故谓之卑。
言不信，行不验，取不当，故谓之汙。
夫卜筮者，世俗之所贱简也。
世皆言曰： 夫卜者多言夸严以得人情，虚高人禄命以说人志，擅言祸灾以伤人心，矫言鬼神以尽人财，厚求拜谢以私於己。
此吾之所耻，故谓之卑汙也。 司马季主曰： 公且安坐。
公见夫被发童子乎？
translation: 
Since ancient times, only those who have received destiny can become kings, and the rise of kings does not depend on destiny through divination!
This situation was particularly prevalent in the Zhou Dynasty and can still be seen in the Qin Dynasty.
When the kings of the Han Dynasty came to Beijing to inherit the throne, they were also left to the fortune tellers.
As for the emergence of diviners, they began to appear since the rise of the Han Dynasty.
Lord Sima Ji is from Chu State.
He was doing divination in the east city of Chang'an.
At this time, Song Zhong was appointed as a doctor, and Jia Yi was appointed as a doctor. One day, the two of them went out to the court to take a bath and take a break. While walking, they discussed and learned the governance methods of the previous kings and saints, and extensively explored the world and human affairs. The two looked at each other and sighed.
Jia Yi said: I heard that ancient saints, if they were not officials in the court, must be among the ranks of diviners and doctors.
Now, I have seen the three princes, nine ministers and the sergeants and officials of the court, and I can know their talents, learning and character.
Let’s try to observe the soothsayer’s style.
The two of them went to the city in the same car and visited the divining restaurant.
It had just rained, and there were very few people on the road. Lord Sima Ji was sitting leisurely in the pavilion, with three or four disciples accompanying him, explaining the principles of heaven and earth, the movement of the sun and the moon, and the origin of good and bad luck in yin and yang.
The two doctors bowed twice to Lord Sima Ji.
Master Sima Ji looked at their appearance and saw that they seemed to be knowledgeable people, so he returned the courtesy and asked his disciples to lead them to sit down.
After sitting down, Sima Jizhu re-explained what he had said before, analyzed the origin and end of heaven and earth, the movement of the sun, moon and stars, distinguished the differences between benevolence and righteousness, listed the signs of good and bad luck, and talked about thousands of words, all of which were logical.
Song Zhong and Jia Yi were surprised and understood. They adjusted their crowns and belts, straightened their clothes, sat respectfully, and said, "I see your appearance and listen to your conversation. I have never seen anything like this in the world of today."
But why is your current status so low and why is your career so dirty?
Sima Jizhu laughed loudly and said: "It seems that the two doctors are people with Taoism. How could they say such superficial words and use such crude words now?"
What kind of person do you think a sage is?
Who do you think is a noble person?
Why do you regard me, an elder, as humble and dirty?
Song Zhong and Jia Yi said: Noble official positions and generous salaries are valued by the world, and worthy people enjoy them.
The position your husband is in now is not that kind of status, so he is considered to be in a lowly position.
What is said is not true, what is done is not effective, and what is taken is inappropriate, so it is dirty.
Diviners are despised by the world.
People all over the world say: fortune tellers often use exaggerated and grotesque words to cater to people's wishes; they falsely raise people's fortunes to please people's hearts; they fabricate disasters to make people sad; they use ghosts and gods to defraud money; they are greedy for rewards to benefit themselves.
These are behaviors that we consider shameful, so we say they are lowly and dirty. Lord Sima Ji said: "You two sit quietly for now."
Have you seen those wholesale boys?


Chunk 1: 
original: 
日月照之则行，不照则止，问之日月疵瑕吉凶，则不能理。
由是观之，能知别贤与不肖者寡矣。
贤之行也，直道以正谏，三谏不听则退。其誉人也不望其报，恶人也不顾其怨，以便国家利众为务。
故官非其任不处也，禄非其功不受也；见人不正，虽贵不敬也；见人有污，虽尊不下也；得不为喜，去不为恨；非其罪也，虽累辱而不愧也。
今公所谓贤者，皆可为羞矣。
卑疵而前，韱趋而言；相引以势，相导以利；比周宾正，以求尊誉，以受公奉；事私利，枉主法，猎农民；以官为威，以法为机，求利逆暴：譬无异於操白刃劫人者也。
初试官时，倍力为巧诈，饰虚功执空文以主上，用居上为右；试官不让贤陈功，见伪增实，以无为有，以少为多，以求便势尊位；食饮驱驰，从姬歌兒，不顾於亲，犯法害民，虚公家：此夫为盗不操矛弧者也，攻而不用弦刃者也，欺父母未有罪而弑君未伐者也。
何以为高贤才乎？
盗贼发不能禁，夷貊不服不能摄，奸邪起不能塞，官秏乱不能治，四时不和不能调，岁穀不孰不能適。
才贤不为，是不忠也；才不贤而讬官位，利上奉，妨贤者处，是窃位也；有人者进，有财者礼，是伪也。
子独不见鸱枭之与凤皇翔乎？
兰芷芎藭弃於广野，蒿萧成林，使君子退而不显众，公等是也。
述而不作，君子义也。
今夫卜者，必法天地，象四时，顺於仁义，分策定卦，旋式正釭，然後言天地之利害，事之成败。
translation: 
If the sun and moon shine, they will walk; if the sun and moon do not shine, they will not walk. Ask them about the eclipses of the sun and moon and the good and bad fortunes of people, and they can't explain it.
From this point of view, there are too few people who can distinguish the virtuous and the unworthy.
All sages who serve as officials follow the path of integrity, advise the king with correct words, and abdicate if their advice is not accepted. They praise others without expecting anything in return, hate others without caring about others' resentment, and always take the convenience of the country and the people as their own duty.
Therefore, if you are not qualified, you will not do it even if you are given an official position; if it is not his fault, you will not accept money.
Now the sages you call are people who are worthy of being ashamed of themselves.
They worship in a low voice and speak servilely; they seduce each other with power and induce each other with interests; they form cliques for selfish interests and exclude righteous men in order to gain respect and reputation and enjoy public salaries; they seek personal interests, distort the monarch's decrees and plunder the property of farmers; they rely on their official positions to show off their power, use decrees as their own tools, pursue private interests, and are retrograde and violent: they seem to be no different from those who threaten others with a sharp knife.
When he first became an official, he tried his best to use cunning tricks, cover up false merits, and use flashy documents to deceive the king in order to climb to a high position; after being appointed to an official position, he refused to let wise men state his merits, but boasted about his own merits, made false claims true, turned nothing into something, and changed less into more, in order to gain something. They are powerful and high-ranking; they eat and drink a lot, have fun everywhere, have everything they want, ignore their parents and relatives, only engage in illegal activities and harm the people, squander freely, and waste their public wealth: This is actually a group of people who are robbers without using bows and spears, attack others without using swords and arrows, abuse their parents without being convicted, and kill the king without being punished.
Why do you think they are wise and wise people?
Robbery occurs but cannot be stopped; barbarians cannot be subdued without restraint; evil cannot be curbed if evil arises; public affairs are depleted but cannot be rectified; the four seasons are not in harmony but cannot be adjusted; the year is bad but cannot be adjusted.
If you have talent and study but do not do it, this is disloyalty; if you do not have talent and study, you will live in an official position, enjoy the emperor's salary, and hinder the status of the worthy, this is stealing the official position. Those who have connections will be promoted to official positions, and those who have money will be treated with courtesy and respect. This is called hypocrisy.
Haven't you ever seen an owl flying with a phoenix?
The orchid zhixiong was not abandoned in the wilderness, but the wormwood grew densely into a forest, causing the gentleman to retreat and not be famous. This was caused by the princes in power.
Telling without doing anything is the true intention of a gentleman.
Nowadays, fortune tellers must imitate the heaven and earth, take the changes of the four seasons, comply with the principles of benevolence and righteousness, distinguish strategies, judge hexagrams, rotate the zodiac disk, divination and hexagrams, and then explain the power of heaven and earth, the good and bad success or failure of human affairs.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
昔先王之定国家，必先龟策日月，而後乃敢代；正时日，乃後入家；产子必先占吉凶，後乃有之。
自伏羲作八卦，周文王演三百八十四爻而天下治。
越王句践放文王八卦以破敌国，霸天下。
由是言之，卜筮有何负哉！
且夫卜筮者，埽除设坐，正其冠带，然後乃言事，此有礼也。
言而鬼神或以飨，忠臣以事其上，孝子以养其亲，慈父以畜其子，此有德者也。
而以义置数十百钱，病者或以愈，且死或以生，患或以免，事或以成，嫁子娶妇或以养生：此之为德，岂直数十百钱哉！
此夫老子所谓 上德不德，是以有德 。
今夫卜筮者利大而谢少，老子之云岂异於是乎？
庄子曰： 君子内无饥寒之患，外无劫夺之忧，居上而敬，居下不为害，君子之道也。
今夫卜筮者之为业也，积之无委聚，藏之不用府库，徙之不用辎车，负装之不重，止而用之无尽索之时。
持不尽索之物，游於无穷之世，虽庄氏之行未能增於是也，子何故而云不可卜哉？
天不足西北，星辰西北移；地不足东南，以海为池；日中必移，月满必亏；先王之道，乍存乍亡。
公责卜者言必信，不亦惑乎！
公见夫谈士辩人乎？
虑事定计，必是人也，然不能以一言说人主意，故言必称先王，语必道上古；虑事定计，饰先王之成功，语其败害，以恐喜人主之志，以求其欲。
多言夸严，莫大於此矣。
然欲彊国成功，尽忠於上，非此不立。
今夫卜者，导惑教愚也。
夫愚惑之人，岂能以一言而知之哉！
言不厌多。
translation: 
In the past, when the kings stabilized the country, they would first use turtles to divine the sun and the moon, and then dare to govern the people on behalf of heaven; they would choose the right day before entering the capital; when a child was born in the family, he would first divine the good or bad fortune, and then he would dare to raise it.
From Fuxi's creation of the Eight Diagrams, King Wen of Zhou evolved it into 384 lines and then the world was brought to great rule.
King Gou Jian of Yue imitated King Wen's Bagua and defeated the enemy's country and dominated the world.
From this point of view, what is there to worry about in divination?
As for the divination practitioner, it is a sign of etiquette to clean up and then set up a seat, straighten the crown and belt, and then talk about good and bad things.
Their words allow ghosts and gods to enjoy the sacrifices, loyal ministers to serve their king, filial sons to support their parents, and loving fathers to raise their children. This is a sign of morality.
And if the inquirer spends dozens or hundreds of money out of moral reasons, the sick may be cured, the dying may be alive, the disaster may be avoided, things may be successful, and the daughter-in-law may be able to live a healthy life: Is this kind of merit only worth tens or hundreds of money!
This is what Lao Tzu said: A person with great virtue does not think he is virtuous, so he is virtuous.
Today's fortune tellers do a lot of good things to others but receive little gratitude from others. Is what Lao Tzu said different from what the fortune tellers do?
Zhuangzi said: A gentleman has no worries about hunger and cold inside, and no worries about being robbed outside. He is prudent and rigorous when he is in a superior position, and he is not jealous of others when he is in a lower position. This is the way of a gentleman.
Nowadays, fortune tellers are engaged in a profession that does not require piles of savings, no treasury for storage, and no carriages for migration. The equipment is simple and light, can be used when staying, and will not be used up.
Even Zhuangzi's behavior cannot be better than that of wandering in the endless world with endless things. Why do you say that divination is not allowed?
When the sky is not enough to the northwest, the stars move to the northwest; when the earth is not enough to the southeast, the sea is used as a pool; the sun must move westward at noon, and the moon must be waning when it is full; the holy way of the former kings suddenly exists and then disappears.
And the two doctors require that the fortune teller must be truthful in his words. Isn't this enough to make people confused?
Have you ever seen a lobbyist or an advocate?
Thinking about problems, making decisions and planning, you must rely on this kind of people. However, they cannot please their master with just a few words, so they must refer to the previous kings in their speeches and quote ancient times in their discussions; they may consider problems, make decisions and plans, or praise the success of the previous king's career, or describe their failures and corruption, so as to make the master's mind either happy or fearful, so as to realize their desires.
There is nothing more powerful than false boasting.
But if you want to make the country rich and powerful, have a successful career, and be loyal to the king, it won't work if you don't do this.
Today's diviners answer people's questions and educate people's ignorance.
How can those who are ignorant and confused become wise with just one sentence!
Therefore, never tire of talking.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
故骐骥不能与罢驴为驷，而凤皇不与燕雀为群，而贤者亦不与不肖者同列。
故君子处卑隐以辟众，自匿以辟伦，微见德顺以除群害，以明天性，助上养下，多其功利，不求尊誉。
公之等喁喁者也，何知长者之道乎！
宋忠、贾谊忽而自失，芒乎无色，怅然噤口不能言。
於是摄衣而起，再拜而辞。
行洋洋也，出门仅能自上车，伏轼低头，卒不能出气。
居三日，宋忠见贾谊於殿门外，乃相引屏语相谓自叹曰： 道高益安，势高益危。
居赫赫之势，失身且有日矣。
夫卜而有不审，不见夺糈；为人主计而不审，身无所处。
此相去远矣，犹天冠地屦也。
此老子之所谓 无名者万物之始 也。
天地旷旷，物之熙熙，或安或危，莫知居之。
我与若，何足预彼哉！
彼久而愈安，虽曾氏之义未有以异也。
久之，宋忠使匈奴，不至而还，抵罪。
而贾谊为梁怀王傅，王堕马薨，谊不食，毒恨而死。
此务华绝根者也。
太史公曰：古者卜人所以不载者，多不见于篇。
及至司马季主，余志而著之。
褚先生曰：臣为郎时，游观长安中，见卜筮之贤大夫，观其起居行步，坐起自动，誓正其衣冠而当乡人也，有君子之风。
见性好解妇来卜，对之颜色严振，未尝见齿而笑也。
从古以来，贤者避世，有居止舞泽者，有居民间闭口不言，有隐居卜筮间以全身者。
夫司马季主者，楚贤大夫，游学长安，通易经，术黄帝、老子，博闻远见。
translation: 
Therefore, the Qiji cannot ride in the same carriage as the tired donkey, the phoenix does not flock with the swallows and the sparrows, and the sage does not ride with the unworthy.
Therefore, a gentleman always stays in a humble and inconspicuous position to avoid the public, hides himself to avoid the shackles of human relations, secretly observes the moral conformity of the world, eliminates all kinds of harm, shows the nature of God, helps God to nurture living beings, and hopes for more benefits without seeking any status or honor.
You two are just casual commentators, how can you know the truth of the elders!
Song Zhong and Jia Yi were in a daze and seemed to be lost after hearing this. They were at a loss, looked melancholy, and could not speak.
So he got up and dressed, bowed twice and said goodbye to Lord Sima Ji.
The two of them walked without knowing the difference between east, west, north and south. When they went out, they had to get into the car by themselves, lying on the railing, not daring to raise their heads, and could never catch their breath.
Three days later, Song Zhong saw Jia Yi outside the palace gate, and took him away from everyone to talk about it. He said with emotion: The higher the morality, the safer it is, and the higher the power, the more dangerous it is.
In a prominent position, death is imminent.
Even if the divination does not work, it will not be deprived of the refined rice that it deserves; if the advice for the king is not thorough, there will be no place for him to stand.
The two are too different, just like the sky and the earth are completely different.
This is just as Lao Tzu said: Namelessness is the origin of all things in the world. Ha!
The sky and the earth are vast and boundless, and all things are prosperous and happy. Some are safe and some are dangerous. No one knows where he should live.
How qualified are you and I to comment on them?
The longer they live, the happier they will be. Even Zhuangzi's ideas are not different from this.
After a long time, Song Zhong went on a mission to the Xiongnu but returned before he arrived, and was therefore convicted of a crime.
Jia Yi was the tutor of King Huai of Liang. King Huai of Liang accidentally fell off his horse and died. Jia Yi took the blame and went on a hunger strike and died with hatred.
These are all examples of pursuing glitz and risking one’s life.
Tai Shigong said: The reason why diviners in ancient times are not recorded is because most of their deeds are not found in documents.
When Sima Ji is the master, I will write down his words and deeds in a chapter.
Mr. Chu said: When I was a Langguan, I once visited the city of Chang'an and saw wise officials engaged in the profession of divination. I observed their daily life, walking and sitting up naturally and decently. They often dressed up their clothes and hats to receive the people in the countryside, and they had the wind of a gentleman.
When I met women who liked to solve doubts and enjoyed divination, I treated them seriously and never smiled.
Since ancient times, sages have escaped from secular society. Some live in desolate depressions, some live among the people and keep silent about worldly affairs, and some live in seclusion among diviners to protect themselves.
Sima Jizhu was a wise official of the Chu State. He studied in Chang'an and was proficient in the "Book of Changes". He was able to state the teachings of Huangdi and Laozi. He had extensive knowledge and far-sightedness.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
观其对二大夫贵人之谈言，称引古明王圣人道，固非浅闻小数之能。
及卜筮立名声千里者，各往往而在。
传曰： 富为上，贵次之；既贵各各学一伎能立其身。
黄直，大夫也；陈君夫，妇人也：以相马立名天下。
齐张仲、曲成侯以善击刺学用剑，立名天下。
留长孺以相彘立名。
荥阳褚氏以相牛立名。
能以伎能立名者甚多，皆有高世绝人之风，何可胜言。
故曰： 非其地，树之不生；非其意，教之不成。
夫家之教子孙，当视其所以好，好含苟生活之道，因而成之。
故曰： 制宅命子，足以观士；子有处所，可谓贤人。
臣为郎时，与太卜待诏为郎者同署，言曰： 孝武帝时，聚会占家问之，某日可取妇乎？
五行家曰可，堪舆家曰不可，建除家曰不吉，丛辰家曰大凶，历家曰小凶，天人家曰小吉，太一家曰大吉。
辩讼不决，以状闻。
制曰： 避诸死忌，以五行为主。
人取於五行者也。
translation: 
Judging from his responses to the two noble men and his quotations from ancient Ming kings and sages, he was not a person with shallow knowledge and low abilities.
As for those who are famous for their divination as a profession, they can often be found everywhere.
The biography says: Wealth is the first, followed by nobles; now that they are noble, each of them still needs to learn a skill to stand in the society.
Huang Zhi is a doctor and Chen Junfu is a woman. They are famous for their good horse fortune.
Zhang Zhong and Qu Chenghou of Qi State were famous all over the world for being good at stabbing with swords.
Liu Changru is famous for being good at looking after pigs.
The Chu family of Xingyang became famous because he was good at fortune-telling.
There are many people who are famous for their skills. They all have a demeanor that is higher than the world and surpasses ordinary people. How can we say it all?
So it is said: If it is not the right place, nothing will grow if it is planted; if it is not in line with his intention, nothing will be accomplished if he is taught.
When elders educate their children, they should look at what they like. If their preferences are inclusive of the way of life, they should follow their preferences and take advantage of the situation to cultivate them.
Therefore, it is said: What kind of house to build and what name to give to the son are enough to show the ambition of the scholar-bureaucrat; when the son has a job to settle down in the world, the father can be called a wise man.
When I was a Lang Guan, I worked in the same yamen as my colleagues who were waiting for the imperial edict to be Lang Guan. They said: During the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, he summoned various experts in divination to ask whether it would be possible to marry a daughter-in-law on a certain day.
The Five Elements family says it's okay, the Kanyu family says it's not possible, the Jianchu family says it's unlucky, the Congchen family says it's a big misfortune, the Li family says it's a minor misfortune, the Tianren family says it's a small auspiciousness, and the Tai family says it's a big auspiciousness.
Each family debated the disputes and could not make a decision. They could only report the relevant situation to the emperor.
The emperor ordered: To avoid the taboo of death, the opinions of the Five Elements experts should be used as the basis.
This is why people adopt the advice of the Five Elements Master.


