Chunk 0: 
original: 
孔子生鲁昌平乡陬邑。
其先宋人也，曰孔防叔。
防叔生伯夏，伯夏生叔梁纥。
纥与颜氏女野合而生孔子，祷於尼丘得孔子。
鲁襄公二十二年而孔子生。
生而首上圩顶，故因名曰丘云。字仲尼，姓孔氏。
丘生而叔梁纥死，葬於防山。
防山在鲁东，由是孔子疑其父墓处，母讳之也。
孔子为兒嬉戏，常陈俎豆，设礼容。
孔子母死，乃殡五父之衢，盖其慎也。
陬人輓父之母诲孔子父墓，然後往合葬於防焉。
孔子要绖，季氏飨士，孔子与往。
阳虎绌曰： 季氏飨士，非敢飨子也。
孔子由是退。
孔子年十七，鲁大夫孟釐子病且死，诫其嗣懿子曰： 孔丘，圣人之後，灭於宋。
其祖弗父何始有宋而嗣让厉公。
及正考父佐戴、武、宣公，三命兹益恭，故鼎铭云： 一命而偻，再命而伛，三命而俯，循墙而走，亦莫敢余侮。
translation: 
Confucius was born in Zouyi, Changping Township, Lu State.
His ancestor was from the Song Dynasty, named Uncle Kong Fang.
Uncle Fang gave birth to Bo Xia, and Bo Xia gave birth to Shu Liang He.
Shu Lianghe and Yehe, a woman named Yan, gave birth to Confucius. They got Confucius after they went to Niqiu Mountain to pray to the gods.
Confucius was born in the 22nd year of Duke Xiang of Lu.
The top of his head was concave when he was born, so he was named Qiu. The courtesy name is Zhongni and the surname is Kong.
Shortly after Confucius was born, his uncle Liang He died and was buried in Fangshan.
Fangshan was in the east of Lu State, so Confucius could not know for sure where his father's tomb was. His mother did not tell him where his father was buried.
When Confucius was a child, he played games, often setting up various sacrificial vessels and learning the ritual movements of sacrificial offerings.
After Confucius's mother died, she temporarily placed her coffin in the Five Fathers' Road without burying her. This was out of prudent consideration.
The mother of Wan's father, who was from Zouyi, told him the burial place of Confucius's father, and then Confucius moved his mother to Fangshan to be buried with his father.
When Confucius was mourning with a filial piety belt tied around his waist, Ji Sun held a banquet to entertain celebrities, and Confucius went to attend.
Ji Sun's retainer Yang Hu stopped him and said: "Ji's family is entertaining celebrities, but you are not invited."
Confucius withdrew because of this.
When Confucius was seventeen years old, Lizi, a senior official in the state of Lu, was critically ill. Before his death, he warned his son Yizi: Confucius is a descendant of a saint, and his ancestors perished in the Song Dynasty.
His ancestor Fufu He was supposed to succeed as the king of Song Dynasty, but he gave way to his younger brother Li Gong.
When another of his ancestors, Zheng Kao's father, assisted Song Dai Gong, Song Wu Gong, and Song Xuangong in three dynasties, he was more respectful every time he was given orders. Therefore, the inscription on Zheng Kao's father's tripod says: The first appointment was received with a bow, the second appointment was received with a bow, and the third appointment was bowed and received.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
饘於是，粥於是，以餬余口。
其恭如是。
吾闻圣人之後，虽不当世，必有达者。
今孔丘年少好礼，其达者欤？
吾即没，若必师之。
及釐子卒，懿子与鲁人南宫敬叔往学礼焉。
是岁，季武子卒，平子代立。
孔子贫且贱。
及长，尝为季氏史，料量平；尝为司职吏而畜蕃息。
由是为司空。
已而去鲁，斥乎齐，逐乎宋、卫，困於陈蔡之间，於是反鲁。
孔子长九尺有六寸，人皆谓之 长人 而异之。
鲁复善待，由是反鲁。
鲁南宫敬叔言鲁君曰： 请与孔子適周。
translation: 
When I walked, I avoided the middle of the road and walked against the wall, and no one dared to bully me. I just made batter and porridge in this cauldron to survive.
His frugality has reached this point.
I heard that although the descendants of saints may not necessarily become kings and govern, there will definitely be people with outstanding talents and virtues.
Now Confucius is young and courteous. Isn't he a man of outstanding talents and virtue?
If I die, you must take him as your teacher.
After Meng Lizi died, Meng Yizi and Nangong Jingshu, a native of Lu, went to Confucius to learn etiquette.
This year, Ji Wuzi died, and Pingzi succeeded to the throne.
Confucius' family was poor and of low status.
When he came of age, he worked as a clerk in charge of the Ji family's warehouse, and he was a cashier who could calculate money and grain fairly and accurately. He also worked as a clerk in charge of pastures, and he was able to breed livestock well.
Therefore, he was promoted to Sikong in charge of construction projects.
Not long after, he left the state of Lu, was ostracized in the state of Qi, was expelled in the states of Song and Wei, was besieged between the states of Chen and Cai, and finally returned to the state of Lu.
Confucius was nine feet six inches tall. People called him "The Long Man" because they thought he was different from ordinary people.
The State of Lu was still very kind to him, so he returned to the State of Lu.
Nangong Jingshu, a native of Lu, said to Duke Zhao of Lu: Please allow me to go on a mission to Zhou with Confucius.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
鲁君与之一乘车，两马，一竖子俱，適周问礼，盖见老子云。
辞去，而老子送之曰： 吾闻富贵者送人以财，仁人者送人以言。
吾不能富贵，窃仁人之号，送子以言，曰： 聪明深察而近於死者，好议人者也。博辩广大危其身者，发人之恶者也。
为人子者毋以有己，为人臣者毋以有己。  孔子自周反于鲁，弟子稍益进焉。
是时也，晋平公淫，六卿擅权，东伐诸侯；楚灵王兵彊，陵轹中国；齐大而近於鲁。
鲁小弱，附於楚则晋怒；附於晋则楚来伐；不备於齐，齐师侵鲁。
鲁昭公之二十年，而孔子盖年三十矣。
齐景公与晏婴来適鲁，景公问孔子曰： 昔秦穆公国小处辟，其霸何也？
对曰： 秦，国虽小，其志大；处虽辟，行中正。
身举五羖，爵之大夫，起累绁之中，与语三日，授之以政。
以此取之，虽王可也，其霸小矣。
translation: 
Duke Zhao of Lu gave him a carriage, two horses, and a boy servant, and set off with him to the Kingdom of Zhou to learn etiquette and pay a visit to Lao Tzu.
When they were saying goodbye, Lao Tzu came out to see them off and said: I heard that wealthy people give gifts with property, and people with noble moral character give gifts with words.
I am not a wealthy person, so I can only steal the name of a noble person and send you off with words. These sentences are: A wise and thoughtful person is often threatened with death because he likes to talk about others; a knowledgeable, eloquent and insightful person is often in trouble and endangers himself, because he likes to expose the sins of others.
Children should not have selfish motives, and ministers should not think only of themselves but the monarch. After Confucius returned to the state of Lu from Zhou Dynasty, more and more disciples followed him.
At this time, Jin Pinggong was promiscuous and immoral, and the six ministers of the Han, Zhao, Wei, Zhonghang, Fan, and Zhi families controlled the state affairs and constantly sent troops to attack the feudal states in the east. King Ling of Chu had a strong army and often invaded other countries in the Central Plains; Qi was a big country and close to Lu.
The state of Lu was small and weak. If it surrendered to the state of Chu, it would anger the state of Jin. If it surrendered to the state of Jin, it would cause the state of Chu to attack. If it did not serve Qi well, Qi's army would invade the state of Lu.
Lu Zhaogong was twenty years old and Confucius was thirty years old.
Duke Jinggong of Qi and Yan Ying came to the state of Lu. Duke Jinggong asked Confucius: "In the past, Duke Qin's country was small and remote. Why was he able to dominate?"
Confucius replied: Although the Qin State is small, its ambitions are great; although its location is remote, its governance is very appropriate.
Duke Mu of Qin personally pulled Baili Xi, who had been redeemed with five black ram skins, and awarded him the title of a great official. As soon as he was released from detention, Qin Jun discussed with him for three days, and then let him take charge of the state affairs.
Using this spirit to govern the country can even rule the entire world. Being an overlord is not a big deal.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
景公说。
孔子年三十五，而季平子与郈昭伯以斗鸡故得罪鲁昭公，昭公率师击平子，平子与孟氏、叔孙氏三家共攻昭公，昭公师败，奔於齐，齐处昭公乾侯。
其後顷之，鲁乱。
孔子適齐，为高昭子家臣，欲以通乎景公。
与齐太师语乐，闻韶音，学之，三月不知肉味，齐人称之。
景公问政孔子，孔子曰： 君君，臣臣，父父，子子。
景公曰： 善哉！
信如君不君，臣不臣，父不父，子不子，虽有粟，吾岂得而食诸！
他日又复问政於孔子，孔子曰： 政在节财。
景公说，将欲以尼谿田封孔子。
translation: 
Jinggong was very happy after hearing this.
When Confucius was thirty-five years old, Ji Pingzi offended Lu Zhaogong for having a cockfight with Li Zhaobo. Zhaogong led his army to attack Pingzi. Pingzi, the Mengsun family and the Shusun family allied with him to attack Zhaogong. Zhaogong's army was defeated and fled to Qi State. Qi State placed Zhaogong in Qianhou.
Not long after that, an incident occurred in the state of Lu.
Confucius came to Qi State and became Gao Zhaozi's retainer, hoping to use Gao Zhaozi's relationship to get close to Jinggong.
Confucius was talking about music with the music officials of Qi State. When he heard Shun's "Shao" music, he started to study it. He was so intoxicated that he couldn't taste meat for three months. The people of Qi State praised him.
Qi Jinggong asked Confucius for advice on how to govern. Confucius said: The king should be like a king, the ministers should be like ministers, the father should be like father, and the son should be like son.
After hearing this, Jinggong said: "That's very good!"
If the king does not look like a king, the ministers do not look like ministers, the father does not look like a father, and the son does not look like a son, even if there is a lot of food, how can I eat it?
Another day, Jinggong asked Confucius for advice on the principles of government. Confucius said: The most important thing in managing a country is to save money.
Jinggong was very happy to hear this and planned to reward Confucius with the fields in Nixi.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
晏婴进曰： 夫儒者滑稽而不可轨法；倨傲自顺，不可以为下；崇丧遂哀，破产厚葬，不可以为俗；游说乞贷，不可以为国。
自大贤之息，周室既衰，礼乐缺有间。
今孔子盛容饰，繁登降之礼，趋详之节，累世不能殚其学，当年不能究其礼。
君欲用之以移齐俗，非所以先细民也。
後景公敬见孔子，不问其礼。
异日，景公止孔子曰： 奉子以季氏，吾不能。
以季孟之间待之。
齐大夫欲害孔子，孔子闻之。
景公曰： 吾老矣，弗能用也。
孔子遂行，反乎鲁。
孔子年四十二，鲁昭公卒於乾侯，定公立。
定公立五年，夏，季平子卒，桓子嗣立。
季桓子穿井得土缶，中若羊，问仲尼云 得狗 。
仲尼曰： 以丘所闻，羊也。
translation: 
Yan Ying dissuaded and said: Those Confucian scholars are eloquent, but the law cannot be used to restrain them; they are arrogant and self-righteous, and cannot be used by subordinates; they advocate funeral etiquette, exhaust their grief, and are willing to bankrupt their fortunes for a grand funeral. This practice cannot be allowed to become a trend; they lobby everywhere and beg for official salary, and they cannot be used to govern the country.
Since those sages passed away one after another, the Zhou royal family has also declined, and rituals have collapsed for some time.
Nowadays, Confucius pays attention to appearance and clothing, details the complicated etiquette of going to and from court, and deliberately pursues the deportment of hands and feet. These red tapes can be learned in several generations and cannot be understood in a lifetime.
If you want to use this set of rules to change the customs of Qi, I'm afraid this is not a good way to guide the people.
After that, although Qi Jinggong received Confucius politely, he no longer asked questions about etiquette.
One day, Jinggong comforted Confucius and said: I can't give you the same high treatment as I gave to the Ji family.
So I gave Confucius the same treatment as the Jisun family in the upper Qing Dynasty and the Mengsun family in the lower Qing Dynasty.
Some of the officials of Qi wanted to harm Confucius, and Confucius heard about it.
Jinggong said to Confucius: I am old and can no longer use you.
Confucius then left Qi and returned to Lu.
When Confucius was forty-two years old, Duke Zhao of Lu died in Qianhou, and Duke Din of Lu came to the throne.
In the summer of the fifth year after Duke Ding ascended the throne, Ji Pingzi died, and Ji Hengzi succeeded him as Shangqing.
When Ji Huanzi was digging a well, he found a pottery vessel with a large belly and a small mouth. There was something like a sheep inside. When he told Confucius, he lied that he had found a dog.
Confucius said: As far as I know, this is a sheep.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
丘闻之，木石之怪夔、罔阆，水之怪龙、罔象，土之怪坟羊。
吴伐越，堕会稽，得骨节专车。
吴使使问仲尼： 骨何者最大？
仲尼曰： 禹致群神於会稽山，防风氏後至，禹杀而戮之，其节专车，此为大矣。
吴客曰： 谁为神？
仲尼曰： 山川之神足以纲纪天下，其守为神，社稷为公侯，皆属於王者。
客曰： 防风何守？
仲尼曰： 汪罔氏之君守封、禺之山，为釐姓。
在虞、夏、商为汪罔，於周为长翟，今谓之大人。
客曰： 人长几何？
仲尼曰： 僬侥氏三尺，短之至也。长者不过十之，数之极也。
於是吴客曰： 善哉圣人！
translation: 
I heard that the monsters in the mountains and forests are a one-legged beast called Kui and the mountain spirit Lang Lang who can learn human voices. The monsters in the water are the dragon and the water monster called Wang Xiang. The monsters in the soil are a grave sheep of unknown male and female.
The State of Wu attacked the State of Yue and destroyed the capital of the State of Yue, Kuaiji, and obtained a large bone that could fill a cart.
The state of Wu sent an envoy to ask Confucius: What has the biggest bones?
Confucius said: Dayu summoned the gods to Kuaiji Mountain. Fangfeng arrived late, so Dayu killed him and displayed his body to the public. One section of his bones was as long as a car, which was the largest among the bones.
The envoy from Wu State asked again: "Who is the god?"
Confucius said: The gods of mountains and rivers can stir up the clouds and cause rain, which is enough to benefit the world. The gods are responsible for supervising the mountains and rivers and offering sacrifices on time. Those who guard the land and grain are princes, and they are all subordinate to the king.
Wu envoy asked again: What is the Fangfeng family responsible for offering sacrifices to?
Confucius said: The county chief of the Wanggong family, who supervises the sacrifices in Fengshan and Yushan areas, has the surname Li.
In Yu, Xia, and Shang Dynasties, he was called Wang Yi, in Zhou Dynasty, he was called Chang Zhai, and now he is called adults.
Wu Shi asked: How tall can a person be?
Confucius replied: The Ruohui family is three feet tall and is the shortest among them; the one who is only three feet tall is the tallest among them.
After hearing this, the envoy from the State of Wu said: What a great saint!


Chunk 6: 
original: 
桓子嬖臣曰仲梁怀，与阳虎有隙。
阳虎欲逐怀，公山不狃止之。
其秋，怀益骄，阳虎执怀。
桓子怒，阳虎因囚桓子，与盟而醳之。
阳虎由此益轻季氏。
季氏亦僭於公室，陪臣执国政，是以鲁自大夫以下皆僭离於正道。
故孔子不仕，退而脩诗书礼乐，弟子弥众，至自远方，莫不受业焉。
定公八年，公山不狃不得意於季氏，因阳虎为乱，欲废三桓之適，更立其庶孽阳虎素所善者，遂执季桓子。
桓子诈之，得脱。
定公九年，阳虎不胜，奔于齐。
是时孔子年五十。
公山不狃以费畔季氏，使人召孔子。
孔子循道弥久，温温无所试，莫能己用，曰： 盖周文武起丰镐而王，今费虽小，傥庶几乎！
欲往。子路不说，止孔子。
translation: 
Ji Huanzi had a favorite named Zhongliang Huai, who had a grudge against Yang Hu.
Yang Hu wanted to expel Zhong Liang Huai, but Ji's retainer Gong Shan Buxu stopped him.
In the autumn of this year, Zhongliang Huai became even more arrogant, and Yang Hu captured Zhong Liang Huai.
Ji Huanzi was very angry about this, so Yang Hu imprisoned Ji Huanzi. He was not released until Ji Huan admitted defeat and made a covenant.
From then on, Yang Hu looked down upon Ji's family even more.
Ji's family also acted above Lu Jun, and the state of Lu had a situation where ministers had exclusive power. Therefore, the people of Lu did not observe etiquette from the officials down, and exceeded their authority and violated the right path.
Therefore, Confucius no longer wanted to be an official in the state of Lu. He retired at home and concentrated on studying and sorting out the classics such as "Poems", "Books", "Rites" and "Music". More and more students, some even coming from far away, all humbly asked Confucius for advice.
In the eighth year of Lu Dinggong's reign, Gongshan Buxuan failed under Ji Huanzi, so he took advantage of Yanghu's rebellion and planned to abolish the legitimate heirs of Jisun, Mengsun, and Shusun families, and establish a bastard son who Yanghu had always loved, so he arrested Ji Huanzi.
Huanzi designed to deceive him and was able to escape.
In the ninth year of Duke Dinggong of Lu, Yang Hu failed in his rebellion and fled to Qi.
At this time, Confucius was fifty years old.
Gongshan Buxuan used Philadelphia to rebel against the Ji family, and he sent people to summon Confucius to help.
Confucius has been exploring the way to govern the country for a long time, but he was depressed and had nowhere to apply it. No one could use him, so he said: In the beginning, King Wen and King Wu of Zhou arose from Feng and Hao and established the royal industry. Although Philadelphia is small now, it should be about the same!
Confucius wanted to go, but Zilu was unhappy and stopped Confucius.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
孔子曰： 夫召我者岂徒哉？如用我，其为东周乎！
然亦卒不行。其後定公以孔子为中都宰，一年，四方皆则之。
由中都宰为司空，由司空为大司寇。
定公十年春，及齐平。
夏，齐大夫黎鉏言於景公曰： 鲁用孔丘，其势危齐。
乃使使告鲁为好会，会於夹谷。
鲁定公且以乘车好往。
孔子摄相事，曰： 臣闻有文事者必有武备，有武事者必有文备。
古者诸侯出疆，必具官以从。
请具左右司马。
定公曰： 诺。
具左右司马。
会齐侯夹谷，为坛位，土阶三等，以会遇之礼相见，揖让而登。
献酬之礼毕，齐有司趋而进曰： 请奏四方之乐。 景公曰： 诺。
translation: 
Confucius said: If they invite me to go, will my trip be in vain?
If I am reused, I will establish a dynasty like Zhou Dynasty in the East! However, it didn't happen in the end. Later, Duke Dinggong of Lu appointed Confucius as the governor of the central capital. A year later, all places followed his example.
Confucius was promoted from the chief of Zhongdu to Sikong, and from Sikong to the great Sikou.
In the spring of the tenth year of Lu Dinggong, Lu and Qi reconciled.
In the summer, Li Kuan, an official of the Qi State, said to Jinggong: The Lu State has appointed Confucius, and this situation will endanger the Qi State.
So Qi Jinggong sent an envoy to tell the state of Lu that he would have a friendly meeting with Lu Dinggong, and the agreed meeting place was Jiagu.
Lu Dinggong prepared his vehicles and his entourage and went to the meeting without warning.
Confucius, as the chief minister, also organized the meeting ceremony. He said to Ding Gong: I heard that diplomacy must be handled with force, and military activities must be coordinated with diplomacy.
In the past, when princes left their own borders, they must bring the necessary officials with them.
Please arrange for Sima Zuo and You to go together.
Duke Ding said: OK.
So I took Zuo and You Sima with me.
Duke Dinggong met the Marquis of Qi in Jiagu. An altar of alliance was built there, seats were prepared on the altar, and three steps were set up to ascend the altar. In accordance with the etiquette of equal meetings among princes, they bowed their hands and went to the altar.
After the ceremony of giving gifts and entertaining each other, the officials in charge of Qi State quickly stepped forward to ask for instructions: "Please start playing the dance music of all ethnic groups in the four directions." Qi Jinggong said: OK.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
於是旍旄羽袚矛戟剑拨鼓噪而至。
孔子趋而进，历阶而登，不尽一等，举袂而言曰： 吾两君为好会，夷狄之乐何为於此！
请命有司！ 有司卻之，不去，则左右视晏子与景公。
景公心怍，麾而去之。
有顷，齐有司趋而进曰： 请奏宫中之乐。 景公曰： 诺。
优倡侏儒为戏而前。
孔子趋而进，历阶而登，不尽一等，曰： 匹夫而营惑诸侯者罪当诛！
请命有司！
有司加法焉，手足异处。
景公惧而动，知义不若，归而大恐，告其群臣曰： 鲁以君子之道辅其君，而子独以夷狄之道教寡人，使得罪於鲁君，为之柰何？
有司进对曰： 君子有过则谢以质，小人有过则谢以文。
君若悼之，则谢以质。
translation: 
So the band of Qi State took the banner as the leader, some wearing feather crowns and shooting leather clothes, and some holding spears, halberds, swords, spears and other weapons also followed on the stage, swarming up noisily.
Seeing this, Confucius walked forward quickly and quickly climbed up the stage one step at a time. When there was still one step left, he raised his sleeves and said: "The kings of our two countries came to meet for the sake of reconciliation. Why are the dances of Yi and Di played here? Please order the officials in charge to deal with it immediately!"
The official in charge asked the band to retreat, but they refused to move, so Confucius looked at Ying and Qi Jinggong's eyes.
Qi Jinggong felt very ashamed and directed the orchestra to retreat.
After a while, the official in charge of Qi State came again and said, "Please let me play the music in the palace." Jinggong said: OK.
So some acrobats and short dwarfs came to perform.
Confucius looked at it and stepped forward quickly, walking quickly up the stage step by step. Before he reached the last step, he said: "The lower class dares to come and make mischief to confuse the princes, and they should be killed if they are found guilty!"
Please order the officials in charge to execute it!
So the officials in charge cut them in half according to law and ordered them to live apart.
Qi Jinggong was greatly frightened and deeply touched. He knew that it was difficult to rival Lu in terms of morality. After returning home, he was very panicked and told his ministers: Lu uses the principles of a gentleman to assist their king, but you only teach me the methods of Yi Di, causing me to offend the king of Lu. What should I do?
The official in charge stepped forward and replied: When a gentleman makes a mistake, he uses practical actions to apologize to others and admits his mistake; when a villain makes a mistake, he uses sweet words to cover it up.
If you feel sad, take concrete actions to express your apology.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
於是齐侯乃归所侵鲁之郓、汶阳、龟阴之田以谢过。
定公十三年夏，孔子言於定公曰： 臣无藏甲，大夫毋百雉之城。
使仲由为季氏宰，将堕三都。於是叔孙氏先堕郈。
季氏将堕费，公山不狃、叔孙辄率费人袭鲁。
公与三子入于季氏之宫，登武子之台。
费人攻之，弗克，入及公侧。
孔子命申句须、乐颀下伐之，费人北。国人追之，败诸姑蔑。
二子奔齐，遂堕费。
将堕成，公敛处父谓孟孙曰： 堕成，齐人必至于北门。
且成，孟氏之保鄣，无成是无孟氏也。
我将弗堕。 十二月，公围成，弗克。
定公十四年，孔子年五十六，由大司寇行摄相事，有喜色。
translation: 
So Qi Jinggong returned the land of Yun, Wenyang, and Guiyin of Lu State that he had invaded in the past, in order to apologize and repent to Lu State.
In the summer of the thirteenth year of Duke Dinggong of Lu, Confucius said to Duke Dinggong: Weapons cannot be stored in the homes of ministers, and city walls one foot high and three hundred feet long cannot be built in the fiefdom of officials.
So he sent Zhong Yu to serve as Ji's retainer, intending to demolish the city walls of Ji Sun, Meng Sun and Shu Sun. At this time, Shusun first demolished the city wall of Liyi.
The Jisun family was also preparing to demolish the city wall of Feiyi. Gongshan Buxuan and Shusunsu led Feiyi's people to attack Lu.
Lu Dinggong, Ji Sun, Meng Sun, and Shu Sun hid in Ji Sun's house and climbed to the high altar of Ji Sun Wuzi.
The Feiyi people led by Gongshan Buxuan attacked them and failed to penetrate, but some people had already broken into the near side of Lu Dinggong's high altar.
Confucius ordered Shen Gouxu and Leqi to step down and attack them. The Feiyi people failed and fled. The Lu people took advantage of the victory to pursue them and completely defeated them in Gumi.
Gongshan Buxuan and Shusun Zhui fled to Qi State, and the city wall of Feiyi was finally demolished.
Then the city was ready to be demolished. Meng Sun's retainer Gong Lian Chufu told Meng Sun: "If the city wall of Cheng Yi is demolished, the people of Qi will definitely advance to our north gate."
Moreover, Chengcheng is also a barrier for your Meng family. Without Chengcheng, there is no Meng family. I'm not going to tear it down.
In December, Lu Dinggong led his troops to surround Chengcheng but could not capture it.
In the fourteenth year of Lu Dinggong, Confucius was fifty-six years old. He acted as the chief minister in the affairs of the prime minister, with a look of joy on his face.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
门人曰： 闻君子祸至不惧，福至不喜。
孔子曰： 有是言也。不曰 乐其以贵下人 乎？
於是诛鲁大夫乱政者少正卯。
与闻国政三月，粥羔豚者弗饰贾；男女行者别於涂；涂不拾遗；四方之客至乎邑者不求有司，皆予之以归。
齐人闻而惧，曰： 孔子为政必霸，霸则吾地近焉，我之为先并矣。
盍致地焉？
黎鉏曰： 请先尝沮之；沮之而不可则致地，庸迟乎！
於是选齐国中女子好者八十人，皆衣文衣而舞康乐，文马三十驷，遗鲁君。
translation: 
His disciples said: I heard that a gentleman will not be afraid when a great disaster comes, nor will he be overjoyed when a great blessing comes.
Confucius said: There is this saying, but isn't there another saying: "Being in a high position and treating the virtuous but a lowly person is content with yourself?"
So Confucius killed the official Shaozhengmao who was disturbing the state affairs.
Three months after Confucius participated in state affairs, merchants selling pigs and sheep no longer dared to ask for high prices; men and women walked separately; no one picked up things dropped on the road; travelers from all over the country came to the cities of Lu, and they did not need to ask for favors or gifts from officials, they could get what they needed and go back satisfied.
When the Qi State heard the news, they became frightened and said: "As long as Confucius is in power in the Lu State, he will definitely dominate. Once the Lu State becomes hegemonic, we are the closest and will definitely take the lead in annexing us."
Why not give them some land first?
Li Kuan said: Let's try to stop them first. If that doesn't work, then give them the land. Is it too late?
So he selected 80 beautiful women from Qi, put them all in gorgeous clothes, taught them how to dance "Kangle", and gave them to Lord Lu together with 120 horses with patterns on their bodies.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
陈女乐文马於鲁城南高门外，季桓子微服往观再三，将受，乃语鲁君为周道游，往观终日，怠於政事。子路曰： 夫子可以行矣。
孔子曰： 鲁今且郊，如致膰乎大夫，则吾犹可以止。
桓子卒受齐女乐，三日不听政；郊，又不致膰俎於大夫。
孔子遂行，宿乎屯。
而师己送，曰： 夫子则非罪。 孔子曰： 吾歌可夫？
歌曰： 彼妇之口，可以出走；彼妇之谒，可以死败。
盖优哉游哉，维以卒岁！
师己反，桓子曰： 孔子亦何言？
师己以实告。
桓子喟然叹曰： 夫子罪我以群婢故也夫！
孔子遂適卫，主於子路妻兄颜浊邹家。
卫灵公问孔子： 居鲁得禄几何？
对曰： 奉粟六万。
卫人亦致粟六万。
translation: 
First, place the female musicians and the patterned horse float outside the high gate in the south of Lucheng. Ji Huanzi wore casual clothes and went to watch it again. He planned to accept it, so he told Jun Lu that he would go out to inspect various places. He would take the opportunity to go to the south gate all day long to watch the beauties and horses of Qi State. He didn't even bother to manage the political affairs of the country. Seeing this, Zilu said to Confucius: Teacher, we can leave here.
Confucius said: The State of Lu is about to hold a suburban ceremony. If the barbecue after the ceremony can be distributed to the officials according to the law, then I can stay here.
Ji Huanzi finally accepted the women's band sent by Qi State and did not attend to government affairs for three days. After the suburban sacrifice, he violated common etiquette and did not give the sacrificial meat and the ritual utensils used in the suburban sacrifice to the doctor.
So Confucius left the state of Lu and stayed in the camp overnight that day.
A musician named Shi Ji from the state of Lu came to see him off and said, "Sir, you are not at fault." Confucius said: Can I sing a song?
So he sang: Those women's mouths can drive away ministers and cronies; approaching those women can cause people to ruin their affairs.
Being leisurely and comfortable is the only way I can spend my time!
After Master Ji returned, Huanzi asked him: What did Confucius say?
Master, tell me the truth.
Huanzi sighed and said, "Sir, you blame us for accepting that group of female musicians from Qi State!"
Confucius then went to Weiguo and stayed at the home of Yan Zhuozou, the brother of Zilu's wife.
Duke Linggong of Wei asked Confucius: How much salary did you receive in Lu?
Confucius replied: Sixty thousand dou of salary.
Weiguo also gave him a salary of 60,000 dou.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
居顷之，或谮孔子於卫灵公。灵公使公孙余假一出一入。
孔子恐获罪焉，居十月，去卫。
将適陈，过匡，颜刻为仆，以其策指之曰： 昔吾入此，由彼缺也。
匡人闻之，以为鲁之阳虎。阳虎尝暴匡人，匡人於是遂止孔子。
孔子状类阳虎，拘焉五日，颜渊後，子曰： 吾以汝为死矣。
颜渊曰： 子在，回何敢死！
匡人拘孔子益急，弟子惧。
孔子曰： 文王既没，文不在兹乎？
天之将丧斯文也，後死者不得与于斯文也。
天之未丧斯文也，匡人其如予何！
孔子使从者为甯武子臣於卫，然後得去。
去即过蒲。月馀，反乎卫，主蘧伯玉家。
灵公夫人有南子者，使人谓孔子曰： 四方之君子不辱欲与寡君为兄弟者，必见寡小君。寡小君原见。
translation: 
Not long after, someone slandered Confucius in front of Duke Linggong of Wei. Duke Linggong of Wei sent Gongsun Yu to use troops to monitor Confucius' coming and going.
Confucius was afraid of being punished here, so he stayed in Weiguo for ten months and then left Weiguo.
Confucius was about to go to the state of Chen and passed a place called Kuang. His disciple Yan Ke drove his chariot for him. Yan Ke pointed his horse whip at Kuang and said, "I have entered this city through that gap before."
When the people of Kuang heard about the arrival of their friends, they mistakenly thought that Yang Hu from the state of Lu was coming. Yang Hu had once killed the Kuang people, so the Kuang people besieged Confucius.
Confucius looked very much like Yang Hu, so he was trapped there for five days. Yan Yuan arrived later, and Confucius said: I thought you were dead.
Yan Yuan said: Teacher, how dare I die while you are still alive!
The Kuang people besieged Confucius more and more urgently, and the disciples were very frightened.
Confucius said: King Wen of Zhou has passed away. Isn’t the ritual and music system of the Zhou Dynasty still with us?
If God wanted to destroy these rituals and music systems, it would not allow those of us who will die after death to assume the responsibility of maintaining them.
God did not intend to eliminate these rituals and music of the Zhou Dynasty, so what can the Kuang people do to me!
Confucius sent a disciple to the capital of Wei to serve as Ning Wuzi's retainer, and then he was able to leave Kuangdi.
After Confucius left Kuangdi, he went to a place called Pu. After more than a month, he returned to Weiguo and stayed at Zang Boyu's house.
Duke Linggong of Wei had a wife named Nanzi who sent someone to say to Confucius: Gentlemen from all countries who think highly of our monarch and are willing to establish a brotherly relationship with our monarch will definitely come to see our monarch's wife. Our monarch's wife hopes to meet you.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
孔子辞谢，不得已而见之。
夫人在絺帷中。
孔子入门，北面稽首。
夫人自帷中再拜，环珮玉声璆然。
孔子曰： 吾乡为弗见，见之礼答焉。
子路不说。
孔子矢之曰： 予所不者，天厌之！
天厌之！
居卫月馀，灵公与夫人同车，宦者雍渠参乘，出，使孔子为次乘，招摇巿过之。
孔子曰： 吾未见好德如好色者也。
於是丑之，去卫，过曹。
是岁，鲁定公卒。
孔子去曹適宋，与弟子习礼大树下。
宋司马桓魋欲杀孔子，拔其树。
孔子去。
弟子曰： 可以速矣。
孔子曰： 天生德於予，桓魋其如予何！
孔子適郑，与弟子相失，孔子独立郭东门。
translation: 
Confucius refused at first, but finally went to see her as a last resort.
The lady sat in the curtain made by Gebu and waited.
After Confucius entered the door, he kowtowed to the north.
The lady bowed twice in the curtain, and the jade jewelry she wore made a clear clanking sound.
Afterwards, Confucius said: I didn't want to see her before, but now that I have no choice but to see her, I should thank her politely.
Zilu was not happy.
Confucius swore: If what I say is not true, God will hate me!
Let God abandon me!
After living in Weiguo for more than a month, Duke Linggong and his wife Nan rode in a carriage together. The eunuch Yongqu accompanied him on the right side of the carriage. After leaving the palace, he asked Confucius to sit in the second carriage and follow him, walking through the market in a swaggering manner.
Confucius said: I have not seen him as fond of virtue as he is fond of beauty.
So he was disgusted with what Wei Linggong did, so he left Wei State and went to Cao State.
This year, Lu Dinggong passed away.
Confucius left the State of Cao and arrived in the State of Song, where he practiced etiquette with his disciples under a big tree.
Sima Huan of the Song Dynasty wanted to kill Confucius, so he cut down the tree.
Confucius had no choice but to leave this place.
The disciples urged: We can leave quickly.
Confucius said: Since God has given me the mission of preaching morality, what can Huan Miao do to me?
When Confucius arrived in the state of Zheng, he became separated from his disciples. Confucius stood alone at the east gate of the outer city.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
郑人或谓子贡曰： 东门有人，其颡似尧，其项类皋陶，其肩类子产，然自要以下不及禹三寸。累累若丧家之狗。
子贡以实告孔子。
孔子欣然笑曰： 形状，末也。而谓似丧家之狗，然哉！
然哉！ 孔子遂至陈，主於司城贞子家。
岁馀，吴王夫差伐陈，取三邑而去。
赵鞅伐朝歌。
楚围蔡，蔡迁于吴。
吴败越王勾践会稽。
有隼集于陈廷而死，楛矢贯之，石砮，矢长尺有咫。
陈湣公使使问仲尼。仲尼曰： 隼来远矣，此肃慎之矢也。
昔武王克商，通道九夷百蛮，使各以其方贿来贡，使无忘职业。
於是肃慎贡楛矢石砮，长尺有咫。
先王欲昭其令德，以肃慎矢分大姬，配虞胡公而封诸陈。
translation: 
When the people of Zheng saw it, they said to Zigong: There is a man at the east gate. His forehead is like Yao, his neck is like Gaotao, and his shoulders are like Zheng Zichan. But from the waist down, he is three inches shorter than Yu. He looks embarrassed and listless, really like a lost dog.
When Zigong met, he told Confucius the truth.
Confucius said happily: He may not be right when he describes my appearance, but he is absolutely right when he says that I look like a lost dog! Absolutely right.
Confucius then arrived in the state of Chen and stayed at the home of Sadako in Sicheng.
More than a year later, King Wu Fucha came to attack Chen State and captured three cities before retreating.
Zhao Yang attacked Chaoge.
Chu State surrounded Cai State, and Cai State moved to Wu.
The state of Wu defeated King Gou Jian of Yue in Kuaiji.
One day, many falcons fell down and died in the palace of Chen State. They were pierced by arrows made of falcon wood. The arrowheads were made of stone and were one foot and eight inches long.
Chen Minggong sent an envoy to ask Confucius for advice. Confucius said: These falcons flew from a very far away place. They are arrows from the Sushen tribe.
In the past, King Wu of the Zhou Dynasty conquered the Zhou Dynasty and destroyed the Shang Dynasty, which established ties with the various ethnic groups and allowed all ethnic groups of the Nine Barbarians and Barbarians to contribute their own local specialties, so that they could not forget their responsibilities and obligations.
So the Sushen tribe presented arrows made of mulberry wood and arrowheads made of stone, one foot and eight inches long.
In order to show his virtue, King Wu of Zhou gave the arrows of the Sushen tribe to his eldest daughter Taiji. Later, Taiji married Duke Yuhu, and Duke Yuhu granted him a title in the state of Chen.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
分同姓以珍玉，展亲；分异姓以远职，使无忘服。
故分陈以肃慎矢。
试求之故府，果得之。
孔子居陈三岁，会晋楚争彊，更伐陈，及吴侵陈，陈常被寇。
孔子曰： 归与归与！
吾党之小子狂简，进取不忘其初。
於是孔子去陈。
过蒲，会公叔氏以蒲畔，蒲人止孔子。
弟子有公良孺者，以私车五乘从孔子。
其为人长贤，有勇力，谓曰： 吾昔从夫子遇难於匡，今又遇难於此，命也已。
吾与夫子再罹难，宁斗而死。
斗甚疾。蒲人惧，谓孔子曰： 苟毋適卫，吾出子。
与之盟，出孔子东门。
孔子遂適卫。
translation: 
At the beginning, the royal family distributed treasures and jades to the princes with the same surname to show that they valued their relatives; the tributes from distant places were given to princes with the same surname to show that they valued their relatives; the tributes from distant places were given to princes with the same surname to remind them not to forget to obey the Zhou Dynasty.
Therefore, the arrows from the Sushen tribe were distributed to Chen Guo.
After hearing this, Chen Minggong asked people to search in the warehouse where tributes from all parties were stored, and sure enough, they found this kind of arrow.
Confucius lived in the State of Chen for three years, which coincided with the struggle for hegemony between the State of Jin and the State of Chu. The two countries took turns attacking the State of Chen. Until the State of Wu attacked the State of Chen, the State of Chen was often invaded.
Confucius said: Go back, go back!
The disciples in my hometown all have high aspirations, they are all enterprising, and they have not forgotten their original intentions.
So Confucius left the state of Chen.
Confucius passed by a place called Pu, and happened to meet the Gongshu family who occupied Pu and rebelled against the country. The people of Pu detained Confucius.
One of Confucius's disciples named Gong Liangru brought five cars to follow Confucius around the world.
He was a tall man, talented, virtuous, and brave. He said to Confucius: I used to travel around Kuang with my teacher and encountered dangers. Now I encounter dangers here again. This is destined to happen.
My teacher and I once again encountered disaster and died fighting.
Gong Liangru fought fiercely with the Pu people. The Pu people were frightened and said to Confucius: If you don't go to Weiguo, I will let you go.
Confucius made a covenant with them, and then he let Confucius and the others go out through the east gate.
Confucius then went to Weiguo.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
子贡曰： 盟可负邪？
孔子曰： 要盟也，神不听。
卫灵公闻孔子来，喜，郊迎。
问曰： 蒲可伐乎？
对曰： 可。
灵公曰： 吾大夫以为不可。今蒲，卫之所以待晋楚也，以卫伐之，无乃不可乎？
孔子曰： 其男子有死之志，妇人有保西河之志。
吾所伐者不过四五人。 灵公曰： 善。
然不伐蒲。
灵公老，怠於政，不用孔子。
孔子喟然叹曰： 苟有用我者，期月而已，三年有成。
孔子行。
佛肸为中牟宰。
赵简子攻范、中行，伐中牟。
佛肸畔，使人召孔子。孔子欲往。
子路曰： 由闻诸夫子， 其身亲为不善者，君子不入也 。
今佛肸亲以中牟畔，子欲往，如之何？
孔子曰： 有是言也。
不曰坚乎，磨而不磷；不曰白乎，涅而不淄。
translation: 
Zigong said: Can a covenant be broken?
Confucius said: God will not pay attention to a covenant made under threat.
Duke Linggong of Wei was very happy when he heard that Confucius had arrived and rushed to the outskirts to greet him personally.
Duke Linggong asked Confucius: "Can this place be conquered?"
Confucius replied: Yes.
Duke Linggong said: "My doctor thinks that it is not possible to attack, because the current Pudi is a barrier against Jin and Chu. I am afraid it is not allowed to attack with our defending army, right?"
Confucius said: The men in Pudi are determined to defend the country to the death, and the women have the desire to guard Xihe.
What I said I wanted to attack were only the four or five people who led the rebellion. Wei Linggong said: Very good.
But no troops were sent to attack Pudi.
Duke Linggong of Wei was old and was very lazy about state affairs, and he did not use Confucius.
Confucius sighed and said: If someone hires me, one year will be enough, and three years will be enough to achieve great results.
Confucius had no choice but to leave Weiguo.
Foji xī served as the chief of Zhongmu.
Zhao Jianzi of the Jin State attacked the Fan family and the Zhongxing family and crusaded against Zhongmou.
Foji then occupied Zhongmou, rebelled against Zhao Jianzi, and sent people to invite Confucius. Confucius planned to go.
Zilu said: I heard a teacher say: A gentleman will not go to someone who does bad things personally.
Now the Buddha's Pillow has occupied Zhongmou and is rebelling. You want to go there. Why?
Confucius said: I have said this.
But didn’t I also say that hard things can’t be polished off? Didn’t I also say that white things can’t be dyed black.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
我岂匏瓜也哉，焉能系而不食？
孔子击磬。有荷蒉而过门者，曰： 有心哉，击磬乎！
硜々乎，莫己知也夫而已矣！
孔子学鼓琴师襄子，十日不进。师襄子曰： 可以益矣。
孔子曰： 丘已习其曲矣，未得其数也。
有间，曰： 已习其数，可以益矣。
孔子曰： 丘未得其志也。
有间，曰： 已习其志，可以益矣。
孔子曰： 丘未得其为人也。
有间，有所穆然深思焉，有所怡然高望而远志焉。
曰： 丘得其为人，黯然而黑，几然而长，眼如望羊，如王四国，非文王其谁能为此也！
师襄子辟席再拜，曰： 师盖云文王操也。
孔子既不得用於卫，将西见赵简子。
translation: 
Am I just looking at the melons but not eating them? How can I hang them there without being eaten?
Once when Confucius was knocking on the chime, a man carrying a straw basket passed by the door and said: If you are interested, just knock on the stone chime!
The chime is beating loudly and urgently, which means that no one understands you and you are planning to give up!
Confucius learned to play the piano from his teacher Xiangzi. He studied for ten days in a row and did not learn any new music. Shi Xiangzi said: It’s time to learn some new songs.
Confucius said: I am already familiar with music, but I have not yet mastered the technique of playing the piano.
After some time, Shi Xiangzi said again: "You are already familiar with the technique of playing the piano. You can learn some new songs."
Confucius said: I have not yet understood the emotional meaning expressed in the music.
After some time, Shi Xiangzi said: I have understood the ideas expressed in the music and can learn more.
Confucius said: I have not yet realized what kind of person the composer is.
After some time, Confucius was solemn and quiet, thinking deeply about something, and then he felt relaxed and happy, showing his ambition.
Said: I can understand what kind of person the composer is. His skin is dark, tall, and his eyes are bright and deep. He is like a king who rules the four directions. Who else can be like this except King Wen of Zhou!
Shi Xiangzi respectfully left his seat, bowed twice to Confucius, and said: My teacher originally said that this is the "Wen Wang Cao".
Since Confucius could not be reused by Wei Guo, he planned to go west to meet Zhao Jianzi.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
至於河而闻窦鸣犊、舜华之死也，临河而叹曰： 美哉水，洋洋乎！丘之不济此，命也夫！
子贡趋而进曰： 敢问何谓也？
孔子曰： 窦鸣犊，舜华，晋国之贤大夫也。
赵简子未得志之时，须此两人而后从政；及其已得志，杀之乃从政。
丘闻之也，刳胎杀夭则麒麟不至郊，竭泽涸渔则蛟龙不合阴阳，覆巢毁卵则凤皇不翔。
何则？
君子讳伤其类也。
夫鸟兽之於不义也尚知辟之，而况乎丘哉！
乃还息乎陬乡，作为陬操以哀之。
而反乎卫，入主蘧伯玉家。
他日，灵公问兵陈。
孔子曰： 俎豆之事则尝闻之，军旅之事未之学也。
明日，与孔子语，见蜚雁，仰视之，色不在孔子。
孔子遂行，复如陈。
translation: 
When they arrived at the Yellow River, they heard the news that Dou Mingdu and Shun Hua had been killed by Zhao Jianzi. Facing the Yellow River, he sighed with emotion and said: The Yellow River is magnificent, so majestic and grand. I didn't cross the Yellow River, it must be an arrangement of fate!
Zigong rushed forward and asked: "I would like to ask the teacher, what do you mean by this?"
Confucius said: Dou Mingdu and Shunhua were both talented and virtuous officials in Jin.
When Zhao Jianzi had not succeeded, he relied on these two talents to enter politics; when he succeeded, he killed them to take power.
I have heard that if a place kills its cubs by caesarean section, the unicorns will not come to its countryside, and the ponds will be drained to catch fish, so the dragons will not coordinate the yin and yang to create rain, and the bird nests will be overturned and the eggs will be destroyed, so the phoenix will not come here to fly.
Why is this?
A gentleman should not harm his own kind.
Those birds and beasts know how to avoid unjust behavior, let alone me, Confucius!
So he returned to his hometown, Zouxiang, and composed the music "Zou Cao" to mourn the two sages Dou Mingdu and Shunhua.
Then he returned to Weiguo and stayed at Zang Boyu's house.
One day, Duke Linggong of Wei asked Confucius about the formation of troops for battle.
Confucius replied: I have heard about sacrifices, but I have never learned about arranging troops.
The next day, when Wei Linggong was talking to Confucius, he saw wild geese flying in the sky. He just raised his head and looked up, but his expression was not on Confucius.
Confucius then left the state of Wei and went to the state of Chen.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
夏，卫灵公卒，立孙辄，是为卫出公。
六月，赵鞅内太子蒯聩于戚。
阳虎使太子絻，八人衰绖，伪自卫迎者，哭而入，遂居焉。冬，蔡迁于州来。
是岁鲁哀公三年，而孔子年六十矣。
齐助卫围戚，以卫太子蒯聩在故也。
夏，鲁桓釐庙燔，南宫敬叔救火。
孔子在陈，闻之，曰： 灾必於桓釐庙乎？
已而果然。
秋，季桓子病，辇而见鲁城，喟然叹曰： 昔此国几兴矣，以吾获罪於孔子，故不兴也。
顾谓其嗣康子曰： 我即死，若必相鲁；相鲁，必召仲尼。
後数日，桓子卒，康子代立。
已葬，欲召仲尼。
公之鱼曰： 昔吾先君用之不终，终为诸侯笑。
今又用之，不能终，是再为诸侯笑。
康子曰： 则谁召而可？
translation: 
In the summer of this year, Wei Linggong died, and his grandson was appointed as the king. This was Wei Chugong.
In June, Zhao Yang took the exiled Prince Kuai Kuai to Qi.
Yang Hu asked the prince Kuai Kuai to put on mourning clothes, and asked eight people to wear mourning clothes. They pretended to be coming from Weiguo to pick up the prince and go back to attend the funeral. Weeping, he entered Qicheng and lived there. In winter, Cai Guo moved his capital to Zhou Lai.
This year was the third year of Duke Ai of Lu, and Confucius was sixty years old.
The state of Qi helped the state of Wei to surround Qicheng because the crown prince of Wei, Kuai Kuai, was there.
In the summer of that same year, the temples of Duke Huan and Duke Li of Lu were set on fire. Uncle Nangong Jing went to put out the fire.
When Confucius heard the news in the state of Chen, he said: The fire must be in the temples of Duke Huan and Duke Li, right?
It was soon confirmed that it was indeed what he said.
In the autumn of this year, Ji Huanzi, who was seriously ill, saw Lucheng in his chariot. He sighed with emotion and said: In the past, this country was almost prosperous, but it did not prosper because I offended Confucius.
He turned back and said to his heir Ji Kangzi: If I die, you will definitely take over the power of Lu and serve as the king; after you serve as the king, you must recall Confucius.
A few days later, Ji Huanzi died and Ji Kangzi succeeded him.
After the funeral was over, I thought I would return to Confucius.
Dafu Gongzhiyu said: In the past, our country Lu Dinggong once appointed him, but he failed to follow through and was ridiculed by the princes.
Now if you use him again, if he doesn't end well, he will be ridiculed by the princes again.
Ji Kangzi said: Who should I call?


Chunk 20: 
original: 
曰： 必召厓求。
於是使使召厓求。
厓求将行，孔子曰： 鲁人召求，非小用之，将大用之也。
是日，孔子曰： 归乎归乎！
吾党之小子狂简，斐然成章，吾不知所以裁之。
子赣知孔子思归，送厓求，因诫曰 即用，以孔子为招 云。
厓求既去，明年，孔子自陈迁于蔡。
蔡昭公将如吴，吴召之也。
前昭公欺其臣迁州来，後将往，大夫惧复迁，公孙翩射杀昭公。
楚侵蔡。
秋，齐景公卒。
明年，孔子自蔡如叶。
叶公问政，孔子曰： 政在来远附迩。
他日，叶公问孔子於子路，子路不对。
translation: 
Gong Zhiyu said: We must summon Ranqiu.
So he sent someone to recall Ran Qiu.
Ran Qiu was about to get up and go, but Confucius said: This time the State of Lu summoned Ran Qiu back, he will not be used lightly, he should be used in a big way.
On this day, Confucius said: Go back, go back!
Those disciples in my hometown have lofty ambitions but broad-minded actions, and are rich in literary talents. I really don’t know where to start to educate them.
Zigong knew that Confucius missed his hometown and wanted to go back. When sending Ranqiu off, he told him that if he was re-employed, he should think about inviting the teacher back.
After Ran Qiu left, Confucius moved from the state of Chen to the state of Cai the next year.
Cai Zhaogong was preparing to go to the State of Wu, and it was the king of the State of Wu who summoned him.
Previously, Duke Zhao deceived his ministers and moved the capital to Zhoulai. This time he was going to the Kingdom of Wu again. The officials were worried that he would move the capital again. Gongsun Pian shot Duke Zhao with an arrow on the way.
Then, the Chu army came to invade Cai.
In the autumn of the same year, Qi Jinggong passed away.
In the second year, Confucius went from Cai State to Ye Yi.
Ye Gong asked Confucius how to govern. Confucius said: The key to governing is to recruit wise men from far away and make people nearby join.
One day, Lord Ye asked Zilu what Confucius was like, but Zilu didn't answer.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
孔子闻之，曰： 由，尔何不对曰 其为人也，学道不倦，诲人不厌，发愤忘食，乐以忘忧，不知老之将至 云尔。
去叶，反于蔡。
长沮、桀溺耦而耕，孔子以为隐者，使子路问津焉。
长沮曰： 彼执舆者为谁？
子路曰： 为孔丘。
曰： 是鲁孔丘与？
曰： 然。
曰： 是知津矣。 桀溺谓子路曰： 子为谁？ 曰： 为仲由。
曰： 子，孔丘之徒与？
曰： 然。
桀溺曰： 悠悠者天下皆是也，而谁以易之？
且与其从辟人之士，岂若从辟世之士哉！
櫌而不辍。
子路以告孔子，孔子怃然曰： 鸟兽不可与同群。天下有道，丘不与易也。
他日，子路行，遇荷筱丈人，曰： 子见夫子乎？
丈人曰： 四体不勤，五穀不分，孰为夫子！
translation: 
Confucius heard about this and said: Zhong Yu, why don't you answer him? He is a man who never gets tired when he studies principles, never gets tired of teaching others, forgets to eat when he is studying hard, forgets sorrow when he is happy, doesn't know that aging is coming, etc.
Confucius left Ye Di of Chu State and returned to Cai State.
On the road, he met Chang Ju and Jie Zhong, who were plowing the fields side by side. Confucius thought they were hermits, so he sent Zi Lu to find out where the ferry was.
Chang Ju said: Who is the man holding the reins of the horse?
Zilu replied: It is Confucius.
Chang Ju asked again: "Is he Confucius from Lu?"
Zilu said: Yes.
Chang Ju said: Then he should know where the ferry is. Jie Dong asked Zi Lu again: "Who are you?" Zilu said: I am Zhong Yu.
Jie Dun said: Are you a disciple of Confucius?
Zilu said: Yes.
Jie Dun said: The world is in turmoil everywhere, and who can change this situation?
Besides, instead of running around with those who are fleeing from the rioters, why not follow those of us who are fleeing from the troubled times?
After saying that, he continued to plow the fields non-stop.
Zilu told Confucius this, and Confucius said disappointedly: We can't live in the mountains and forests with the birds and beasts. If the world were peaceful, I wouldn't have to run around trying to change this situation.
One day, when Zi Lu was walking alone, he met an old man carrying a weeding tool on his shoulder. Zilu asked him: Have you seen my teacher?
The old man said: You people are not diligent in your limbs and cannot distinguish the grains. How can I know who your teacher is?


Chunk 22: 
original: 
植其杖而芸。
子路以告，孔子曰： 隐者也。
复往，则亡。
孔子迁于蔡三岁，吴伐陈。
楚救陈，军于城父。
闻孔子在陈蔡之间，楚使人聘孔子。
孔子将往拜礼，陈蔡大夫谋曰： 孔子贤者，所刺讥皆中诸侯之疾。
今者久留陈蔡之间，诸大夫所设行皆非仲尼之意。
今楚，大国也，来聘孔子。
孔子用於楚，则陈蔡用事大夫危矣。
於是乃相与发徒役围孔子於野。
不得行，绝粮。
从者病，莫能兴。
孔子讲诵弦歌不衰。
子路愠见曰： 君子亦有穷乎？
孔子曰： 君子固穷，小人穷斯滥矣。
子贡色作。
孔子曰： 赐，尔以予为多学而识之者与？
曰： 然。
translation: 
After saying that, he went to pull weeds on crutches.
Later, Zilu told Confucius what happened. Confucius said: This is a hermit.
I asked Zilu to look there again, but the old man was gone.
Three years after Confucius moved to the state of Cai, the state of Wu attacked the state of Chen.
The State of Chu rescued the State of Chen, and the army was stationed in Chengfu.
Hearing that Confucius lived on the border of Chen and Cai, Chu sent people to hire Confucius.
Confucius was about to go to see and accept the betrothal gift. The officials of Chen and Cai discussed and said: Confucius is a talented and virtuous man, and what he criticizes and satirizes are all about the shortcomings of the princes.
Now we have been stuck between Chen and Cai for a long time. The administration and actions of the officials are not in line with Zhongni's wishes.
Today's Chu State is a big country, but it came to hire Confucius.
If Confucius is reused in Chu State, then our officials in power in Chen and Cai will be in danger.
So both sides sent some laborers to besiege Confucius in the wild.
Confucius and his disciples were unable to move and their food supply was cut off.
The disciples who followed him were sick from hunger and could not stand up.
But Confucius continued to give lectures, recite poems, sing, and play the piano to everyone.
Zilu came to see Confucius angrily: Is there a time when a gentleman is in trouble?
Confucius said: A gentleman can maintain his integrity and remain unwavering in the face of adversity, while a young man will not exercise restraint when faced with adversity and will do anything that goes too far.
At this time, Zigong's expression also changed.
Confucius said: Ci, do you think I am a man of erudition and memorization?
Zigong replied: Yes.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
非与？
孔子曰： 非也。
予一以贯之。
孔子知弟子有愠心，乃召子路而问曰： 诗云 匪兕匪虎，率彼旷野 。吾道非邪？
吾何为於此？
子路曰： 意者吾未仁邪？
人之不我信也。
意者吾未知邪？
人之不我行也。
孔子曰： 有是乎！由，譬使仁者而必信，安有伯夷、叔齐？
使知者而必行，安有王子比干？
子路出，子贡入见。
孔子曰： 赐，诗云 匪兕匪虎，率彼旷野 。
吾道非邪？
吾何为於此？ 子贡曰： 夫子之道至大也，故天下莫能容夫子。
夫子盖少贬焉？
孔子曰： 赐，良农能稼而不能为穑，良工能巧而不能为顺。
君子能脩其道，纲而纪之，统而理之，而不能为容。
今尔不脩尔道而求为容。
赐，而志不远矣！
translation: 
Isn't it right?
Confucius said: No.
I grasp the basic principles of things and integrate them.
Confucius knew that his disciples were unhappy. Then he called Lai Zilu and asked: "The Book of Songs" says that it is neither a rhinoceros nor a tiger, but it is wandering in the wilderness. Isn't it because of the moral principles we uphold?
Why have we ended up in this situation?
Zilu said: Perhaps our kindness is not enough?
So people don’t trust us; it must be because we are not resourceful enough, right?
So they wouldn't let us pass.
Confucius said: Is there such a saying?
Zhong Yuan, if a virtuous person can be trusted by others, how could Boyi and Shuqi starve to death in Shouyang Mountain?
If a wise man can go ahead without any hindrance, how can a prince dare to have his heart betrayed?
Zilu withdrew, and Zigong came in to see Confucius.
Confucius said to Zigong: Granted, the Book of Songs says it is neither a rhinoceros nor a tiger, yet it wanders in the wilderness.
Is there something wrong with our doctrine?
Why have we ended up in this situation? Zigong said: The teacher's teachings are so profound that no country in the world can accommodate him.
Teacher, why don't you lower your requirements a little bit?
Confucius said: Grant, although a good farmer is good at farming, he may not necessarily have a good harvest; although a good craftsman may not have exquisite craftsmanship, his work may not satisfy everyone.
Cultivated people can study their own theories, just like a net, first constructing the basic Datong system, and then relying on it, but it may not be accepted by the world.
Now, instead of studying your own doctrine, you want to lower yourself to respect others.
Shi, your ambition is too modest.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
子贡出，颜回入见。
孔子曰： 回，诗云 匪兕匪虎，率彼旷野 。
吾道非邪？
吾何为於此？
颜回曰： 夫子之道至大，故天下莫能容。
虽然，夫子推而行之，不容何病，不容然後见君子！
夫道之不脩也，是吾丑也。
夫道既已大脩而不用，是有国者之丑也。
不容何病，不容然後见君子！
孔子欣然而笑曰： 有是哉颜氏之子！
使尔多财，吾为尔宰。
於是使子贡至楚。
楚昭王兴师迎孔子，然後得免。
昭王将以书社地七百里封孔子。
楚令尹子西曰： 王之使使诸侯有如子贡者乎？
曰： 无有。
王之辅相有如颜回者乎？ 曰： 无有。
王之将率有如子路者乎？
曰： 无有。
王之官尹有如宰予者乎？
曰： 无有。
translation: 
After Zigong went out, Yan Hui came in to see Confucius.
Confucius said: Hui, the Book of Songs says it is neither a rhinoceros nor a tiger, yet it wanders in the wilderness.
Is there something wrong with our preaching?
Why have we ended up in this situation?
Yan Hui said: The teacher's teachings are so profound that no country in the world can accommodate him.
Even so, teachers still have to promote their own theories. What does it matter if they are not accepted by the world? Don't be accepted, so that you can show your true character as a gentleman!
If a person does not study his own doctrine, it is his own shame.
As for the doctrines that have been studied with great efforts and are not used by others, it is a shame for those in power.
What does it matter if you are not accepted by the world? Don't be accepted, so that you can show your true character as a gentleman!
Confucius smiled happily and said, "That's it, young man named Yan!"
If you have a lot of money, I would like to be your steward.
So he sent Zigong to the state of Chu.
King Zhao of Chu mobilized his army to meet Confucius, and this disaster was avoided.
King Zhao of Chu wanted to grant Confucius a 700-mile land with household registration.
Zixi, the envoy of Chu State, stopped him and said: "Among the envoys sent by your Majesty to the various vassal states, are there people like Zigong?"
King Zhao said: No.
Zixi asked again: "Are there any of the king's assistant ministers like Yan Hui?" King Zhao said: No.
Zixi asked again: "Does your Majesty have any generals like Zilu?"
King Zhao replied: No.
Zixi also asked: Are there any officials in charge of the king's ministries like Zaiyu?
King Zhao replied: No.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
且楚之祖封於周，号为子男五十里。
今孔丘述三五之法，明周召之业，王若用之，则楚安得世世堂堂方数千里乎？
夫文王在丰，武王在镐，百里之君卒王天下。
今孔丘得据土壤，贤弟子为佐，非楚之福也。
昭王乃止。
其秋，楚昭王卒于城父。
楚狂接舆歌而过孔子，曰： 凤兮凤兮，何德之衰！
往者不可谏兮，来者犹可追也！
已而已而，今之从政者殆而！
孔子下，欲与之言。
趋而去，弗得与之言。於是孔子自楚反乎卫。
是岁也，孔子年六十三，而鲁哀公六年也。其明年，吴与鲁会缯，徵百牢。
太宰嚭召季康子。
康子使子贡往，然后得已。
translation: 
Zixi continued: Moreover, when our ancestors of the Chu State were granted the title of Viscount by the Emperor of Zhou, the land was equal to that of Baron, with a radius of fifty miles.
Now Confucius talks about the regulations and laws of the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors, and affirms that Zhou Gongdan and Zhaogongsi assist the cause of the Emperor of Zhou. If the king appoints him, will the Chu State still be able to retain thousands of miles of land from generation to generation?
I remember when King Wen was in Fengyi and King Wu was in Haojing. As the lord of a land of only a hundred miles, he finally became the king of the world.
Now if Confucius was allowed to own the land of 700 cities, coupled with the assistance of those talented disciples, this would not be the blessing of Chu State.
After hearing this, King Zhao gave up his original idea.
In the autumn of this year, King Chu Zhao died in Chengfu.
The madman Jie Yu from Chu State one day walked past Confucius's carriage singing a song and said: Phoenix, Phoenix, how come your virtue has deteriorated?
Things in the past cannot be undone, but things in the future can be caught up again. Forget it, forget it!
The people in power now are hopeless!
Confucius got out of the car and wanted to talk to him, but he walked away quickly and failed to talk to him.
So Confucius returned from Chu to Wei. This year, Confucius was sixty-three years old, which was the sixth year of Duke Ai of Lu.
The next year, Wu and Lu met at a place called Zhen to form an alliance. Wu asked Lu to provide Bailao as a sacrifice.
The Grand Prime Minister of the State of Wu summoned Ji Kangzi.
Ji Kangzi sent Zigong to negotiate, and then the matter was dropped.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
孔子曰： 鲁卫之政，兄弟也。
是时，卫君辄父不得立，在外，诸侯数以为让。
而孔子弟子多仕於卫，卫君欲得孔子为政。
子路曰： 卫君待子而为政，子将奚先？
孔子曰： 必也正名乎！
子路曰： 有是哉，子之迂也！
何其正也？
孔子曰： 野哉由也！
夫名不正则言不顺，言不顺则事不成，事不成则礼乐不兴，礼乐不兴则刑罚不中，刑罚不中则民无所错手足矣。
夫君子为之必可名，言之必可行。
君子於其言，无所苟而已矣。
其明年，厓有为季氏将师，与齐战於郎，克之。
季康子曰： 子之於军旅，学之乎？
性之乎？
厓有曰： 学之於孔子。
季康子曰： 孔子何如人哉？
对曰： 用之有名；播之百姓，质诸鬼神而无憾。
translation: 
Confucius said: The political situations of Lu and Wei are as similar as brothers.
At this time, Wei Chu's father, Kuai Chi, did not succeed to the throne and was in exile. The princes repeatedly criticized this matter.
Many of Confucius's disciples served as officials in Wei State, and Wei wanted to invite Confucius to govern whenever he went out for public service.
Zilu asked Confucius: The State of Wei wants to invite you to govern. What are you going to do first?
Confucius replied: Then I must rectify my name first!
Zilu said: Is there such a thing? Teacher, you are too ignorant!
Why do we need to correct our names first?
Confucius said: How reckless, Zhongtian!
You must know that if the status is not correct, the words spoken will not be appropriate; if the words are not spoken appropriately, then things will not be done; if things are not done, then ritual and music education will not flourish; if music and education will not flourish, then the punishment will not be accurate and appropriate, then the people will be at a loss and not know what to do.
Therefore, a gentleman must do things in accordance with his status, and what he says must be practical and feasible.
A gentleman should be strict and casual about what he says.
The next year, Ran Youwei led the army for the Ji family and fought against Qi in Langdi and defeated Qi's army.
Ji Kangzi said to Ran Qiu: Did you learn your military talents?
Or is it natural?
Ran You replied: I learned it from Confucius.
Ji Kangzi asked again: What kind of person was Confucius?
Ran You replied: "His appointment must be consistent with his title. Whether his teachings are spread among the people or confronted with ghosts and gods, there will be no regrets."


Chunk 27: 
original: 
求之至於此道，虽累千社，夫子不利也。 康子曰： 我欲召之，可乎？
对曰： 欲召之，则毋以小人固之，则可矣。
而卫孔文子将攻太叔，问策於仲尼。
仲尼辞不知，退而命载而行，曰： 鸟能择木，木岂能择鸟乎！
文子固止。
会季康子逐公华、公宾、公林，以币迎孔子，孔子归鲁。
孔子之去鲁凡十四岁而反乎鲁。
鲁哀公问政，对曰： 政在选臣。
季康子问政，曰： 举直错诸枉，则枉者直。
康子患盗，孔子曰： 苟子之不欲，虽赏之不窃。
然鲁终不能用孔子，孔子亦不求仕。
孔子之时，周室微而礼乐废，诗书缺。
translation: 
Although I had meritorious service in the military and was granted a total of 2,500 families, Confucius would not be tempted. Kangzi said: I want to summon him back, is that okay?
Ran You said: If you want to invite him back, as long as you don't let villains hinder him, that's all.
At that time, Kong Wenzi, the official of the Wei State, was preparing to attack Taishu and asked Confucius for advice.
Confucius refused and said he didn't know. When he returned to his residence, he immediately ordered his carriage to leave Weiguo, saying: Birds can choose trees to live in, but how can trees choose birds?
Kong Wenzi firmly detained him.
It happened that Ji Kangzi sent Gonghua, Gongbin, and Gonglin to greet Confucius with gifts, and Confucius returned to the state of Lu.
Confucius left the State of Lu for fourteen years and returned to the State of Lu.
Duke Ai of Lu asked Confucius about the principles of government. Confucius replied: The most important thing in government is to choose ministers.
Ji Kangzi also asked Confucius about the principles of government. Confucius said: Use upright people and discard people with evil intentions, so that people with evil intentions can become upright.
Ji Kangzi was worried about stealing. Confucius said: If you have no desire, people will not steal even if you give them rewards.
However, the State of Lu failed to appoint Confucius in the end, and Confucius did not ask to be an official.
In the time of Confucius, the king of Zhou was in decline, rituals and music were in ruins, and the "Poems" and "Books" were also in short supply.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
追迹三代之礼，序书传，上纪唐虞之际，下至秦缪，编次其事。
曰： 夏礼吾能言之，杞不足徵也。
殷礼吾能言之，宋不足徵也。
足，则吾能徵之矣。
观殷夏所损益，曰： 後虽百世可知也，以一文一质。
周监二代，郁郁乎文哉。吾从周。 故书传、礼记自孔氏。
孔子语鲁大师： 乐其可知也。
始作翕如，纵之纯如，皦如，绎如也，以成。
吾自卫反鲁，然後乐正，雅颂各得其所。
古者诗三千馀篇，及至孔子，去其重，取可施於礼义，上采契后稷，中述殷周之盛，至幽厉之缺，始於衽席，故曰 关雎之乱以为风始，鹿鸣为小雅始，文王为大雅始，清庙为颂始 。
三百五篇孔子皆弦歌之，以求合韶武雅颂之音。
礼乐自此可得而述，以备王道，成六艺。孔子晚而喜易，序彖、系、象、说卦、文言。
读易，韦编三绝。曰： 假我数年，若是，我於易则彬彬矣。
孔子以诗书礼乐教，弟子盖三千焉，身通六艺者七十有二人。
translation: 
Confucius studied the etiquette system of the Xia, Shang, and Western Zhou dynasties, and compiled the chapters of Shuzhuan, starting from the time of Yao and Shun of Tang Dynasty, to Duke Mu of Qin Dynasty, and arranged them according to the order of events.
Confucius said: I can still describe the etiquette system of the Xia Dynasty, but the Qi State, a descendant of the Xia Dynasty, did not leave enough documents to prove it.
I can also tell you about the etiquette system of the Yin and Shang Dynasties, but the post-Song Dynasty of the Yin and Shang Dynasties did not leave enough documents to prove these systems.
If there are enough documents from Qi and Song, I can prove these systems.
After examining the additions and deletions made by the Yin Dynasty to the Xia Dynasty in the etiquette system, Confucius said: Even after a hundred years in the future, the increases and decreases can be predicted, because one kind of emphasis is on literary talent, and the other is on simplicity.
The etiquette system of the Zhou Dynasty was formulated based on the Xia Dynasty and the Yin Dynasty. It is so rich and colorful. I advocate using the etiquette of the Zhou Dynasty. Therefore, "Shu Zhuan" and "Book of Rites" were both compiled by Confucius.
Confucius once said to the music official Taishi of Lu: Music can be understood.
At the beginning of the performance, they should cooperate with each other, and continue to have a harmonious rhythm, clear and continuous sound, until the whole piece of music is completed.
Confucius also said: After I returned to Lu from Wei, I began to correct the poetry and music, restoring the original tunes of "Ya" and "Song".
There are more than 3,000 poems handed down from ancient times. At the time of Confucius, he deleted the repetitive ones and selected those that were consistent with the meaning for etiquette education. The earliest ones traced the ancestors of Yin, Qi, and the ancestors of Zhou, Houji. The second ones described the prosperity of the Yin and Zhou dynasties, until the political absence of King Zhou You and King Li of Zhou. The beginning was a poem describing the relationship and feelings between men and women, so it is said: The movement "Guan Sui" is the first chapter of "Guofeng", "Lu Ming" is the first chapter of "Xiao Ya", "King Wen" is the first chapter of "Daya", and "Qing Temple" is the first chapter of "Ode".
Confucius was able to play and sing the three hundred and five poems in order to match the tunes of the music "Shao", "Wu", "Ya" and "Song".
From then on, the music system of the former kings was restored to the old view and could be described. The king's way was complete, and Confucius also completed the compilation of "Poetry", "Book", "Yue", "Yi" and "Spring and Autumn" which are known as the "Six Arts". In his later years, Confucius liked to study "The Book of Changes". He explained in detail the "Yun Ci", "Xici", "Gua", "Classic Chinese", etc.
Confucius read the "Book of Changes" so diligently that he broke the cowhide rope that woven the slips through many times. He also said: If I live a few more years, I will be able to fully understand the diction and meaning of "The Book of Changes".
Confucius used "Poems", "Books", "Li" and "Music" as teaching materials to educate his disciples. There were about 3,000 disciples studying there, and 72 of them were proficient in the six skills of etiquette, music, archery, charioteering, arithmetic, and shu.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
如颜浊邹之徒，颇受业者甚众。孔子以四教：文，行，忠，信。
绝四：毋意，毋必，毋固，毋我。
所慎：齐，战，疾。
子罕言利与命与仁。
不愤不启，举一隅不以三隅反，则弗复也。其於乡党，恂恂似不能言者。
其於宗庙朝廷，辩辩言，唯谨尔。
朝，与上大夫言，訚訚如也；与下大夫言，侃侃如也。
入公门，鞠躬如也；趋进，翼如也。
君召使儐，色勃如也。
君命召，不俟驾行矣。
鱼馁，肉败，割不正，不食。
席不正，不坐。
translation: 
As for people like Yan Zhuozou, there are even more disciples who were taught by Confucius in many aspects but were not formally naturalized. Confucius educated his disciples in four aspects: knowledge, words and deeds, loyalty and forgiveness, and faith.
Set four prohibitions for disciples: don’t speculate, don’t be arbitrary, don’t be stubborn, and don’t be self-righteous.
Things that he believed should be handled with special caution were: fasting, war, and disease.
Confucius rarely talked about profit. If he did, it was associated with fate and benevolence.
When he educates his disciples, he does not enlighten or enlighten them until they encounter real difficulties, become bored or anxious. He came up with a truth, and his disciples could not deduce similar truth by analogy, so he would not repeat it again. In his hometown, Confucius was as humble as a man who was not good at talking.
On occasions such as offering sacrifices in the ancestral temple and discussing affairs in the court, he was eloquent, clear and accessible, yet very respectful and careful.
When you go to court, when you talk to the senior officials, your attitude is pleasant and upright; when you talk to the lower officials, you appear to be peaceful and peaceful.
When Confucius entered the king's palace, he bowed his head and bowed with respect and caution. After entering, he walked forward quickly and was respectful and courteous.
The king ordered him to greet the guests with a solemn and serious look.
The king summoned him and set off without waiting for the chariot to be ready.
Confucius would not eat the fish if it was not fresh, if the meat was off-flavored, or if it was not cut according to the rules.
If the seats were not straight, Confucius would not sit down.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
食於有丧者之侧，未尝饱也。
是日哭，则不歌。
见齐衰、瞽者，虽童子必变。
三人行，必得我师。
德之不脩，学之不讲，闻义不能徙，不善不能改，是吾忧也。
使人歌，善，则使复之，然后和之。
子不语：怪，力，乱，神。
子贡曰： 夫子之文章，可得闻也。
夫子言天道与性命，弗可得闻也已。
颜渊喟然叹曰： 仰之弥高，钻之弥坚。
瞻之在前，忽焉在後。
夫子循循然善诱人，博我以文，约我以礼，欲罢不能。
既竭我才，如有所立，卓尔。
虽欲从之，蔑由也已。
达巷党人曰： 大哉孔子，博学而无所成名。 子闻之曰： 我何执？
执御乎？
执射乎？
我执御矣。
translation: 
I never feel full when I eat next to someone in mourning.
If you cry in a day, you will never sing again.
When seeing a person wearing mourning clothes or a blind person, even a child will change his face to show sympathy.
Confucius said: Among three people walking together, there must be someone who can be my teacher.
He also said: Not cultivating morality, not pursuing academic studies, not going to study after hearing upright principles, not being able to correct shortcomings and mistakes, these are the problems that worry me.
Confucius asked someone to sing. If the song was good, he would ask the person to sing it again, and then he would join in the singing.
Confucius did not talk about weird, violent, ghost-related things.
Zigong said: The literary knowledge of literature imparted to us by our teachers can be learned through listening.
The remarks that teachers teach us about the way of heaven and nature cannot be heard or understood.
Yan Yuan praised and said: The more you look up at the teacher's teachings, the more noble you feel; the more you study them, the more solid and profound they are.
Seeing it right in front, I suddenly ran to the back.
Teachers are good at inducing people in an organized and planned way, using literature and classics to enrich our knowledge, and using etiquette and norms to restrain our words and deeds. Even if we want to stop learning, we can't do it.
I have exhausted all my talents and seem to be able to be independent in society, but if I want to take another step forward, I don’t know how to start.
The people in Daxiang said: How great!
Confucius was learned but not famous for any particular expertise. Confucius heard this and said: What is my expertise?
Driving?
Archery?
I'm still good at driving.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
牢曰： 子云 不试，故艺 。
鲁哀公十四年春，狩大野。
叔孙氏车子鉏商获兽，以为不祥。
仲尼视之，曰： 麟也。
取之。
曰： 河不出图，雒不出书，吾已矣夫！
颜渊死，孔子曰： 天丧予！
及西狩见麟，曰： 吾道穷矣！
喟然叹曰： 莫知我夫！
子贡曰： 何为莫知子？
子曰： 不怨天，不尤人，下学而上达，知我者其天乎！
不降其志，不辱其身，伯夷、叔齐乎！
谓 柳下惠、少连降志辱身矣 。
谓 虞仲、夷逸隐居放言，行中清，废中权 。 我则异於是，无可无不可。
子曰： 弗乎弗乎，君子病没世而名不称焉。
吾道不行矣，吾何以自见於後世哉？
translation: 
Lao said: The teacher once said that I learned so many skills because I failed to get an appointment.
In the spring of the fourteenth year of Duke Ai of Lu, he went hunting in Daye.
The merchants who drove the Shusun family hunted a monster, which they thought was an ominous omen.
Confucius looked at it and said: This is Qilin.
So it was taken away.
Confucius said: If the divine dragon Negative Picture no longer appears on the Yellow River, and the divine turtle Negative Luoshu no longer appears on the Luo River, I will be almost finished!
When Yuan died, Confucius said: God wants me to die!
When he went west to hunt in the wilds and saw Qilin, he said: My idea has come to an end!
Said with emotion: No one can understand me!
Zigong said: Why do you say no one understands you?
Confucius replied: I don't complain about heaven, nor do I blame people. I study human affairs at a lower level and understand the laws of heaven at a higher level. The only one who can understand me is heaven!
Confucius said: If you don't lower your ambitions and don't let your personality be insulted, only Boyi and Shuqi Bing can do it!
He also said: Liu Xiahui and Shaolian lowered their ambitions and insulted their personalities.
It is also said that Yu Zhong and Yi Yi lived in seclusion, did not talk about worldly affairs, behaved in a noble and pure manner, and abandoned themselves in a contingency manner.
He also said: I am different from them. I neither lower my ambitions or humiliate myself in order to make progress, nor do I live in seclusion and escape from the world. There is no absolute can and no absolute can't. Confucius said: No, no!
The most worrying thing for a gentleman is that he will not leave a good reputation after his death. If my ideas cannot be implemented, what should I leave to future generations?


Chunk 32: 
original: 
乃因史记作春秋，上至隐公，下讫哀公十四年，十二公。
据鲁，亲周，故殷，运之三代。约其文辞而指博。
故吴楚之君自称王，而春秋贬之曰 子 ；践土之会实召周天子，而春秋讳之曰 天王狩於河阳 ：推此类以绳当世。
贬损之义，後有王者举而开之。春秋之义行，则天下乱臣贼子惧焉。
孔子在位听讼，文辞有可与人共者，弗独有也。
至於为春秋，笔则笔，削则削，子夏之徒不能赞一辞。
弟子受春秋，孔子曰： 後世知丘者以春秋，而罪丘者亦以春秋。
明岁，子路死於卫。
孔子病，子贡请见。
translation: 
So he made the Spring and Autumn Annals based on the history books of the Lu State, starting from the first year of Lu Yin to the fourteenth year of Lu Aigong, and included a total of twelve monarchs of the Lu State.
The narrative is centered on the state of Lu, respects the royal family of Zhou as the orthodoxy, uses the ancient traditions of the Yin and Shang Dynasties as a reference, and extends the legal tradition of Xia, Shang and Zhou Dynasties. The writing is simple and the purpose is broad.
Therefore, the people of Wu and Chu who claimed to be kings were still derogated as viscounts in the Spring and Autumn Annals; Duke Wen of Jin actually summoned King Xiang of Zhou to join the alliance in Jiantu, but the Spring and Autumn Annals avoid saying that the Emperor of Zhou came to Heyang on a hunting tour.
By analogy, "Spring and Autumn" used this principle to praise and criticize various events at that time. Later, some kings praised and promoted it, so that the justice and law of "Spring and Autumn" prevailed in the world, and the rebellious officials and traitors in the world became afraid.
When Confucius was an official in reviewing cases, he would never act alone if he needed to consult with others on wording.
When he compiled the Spring and Autumn Annals, he recorded what he thought should be recorded, and what he thought should be deleted was deleted. Even a disciple like Zixia who was good at writing could not change a single word.
When the disciples listened to Confucius teach "Spring and Autumn", Confucius said: If future generations want to understand me, Confucius, they need to rely on "Spring and Autumn", and if they want to blame me, Confucius, they must also rely on "Spring and Autumn".
In the second year, Zilu died in Weiguo.
Confucius was ill, and Zigong asked to see him.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
孔子方负杖逍遥於门，曰： 赐，汝来何其晚也？
孔子因叹，歌曰： 太山坏乎！
梁柱摧乎！哲人萎乎！
因以涕下。
谓子贡曰： 天下无道久矣，莫能宗予。
夏人殡於东阶，周人於西阶，殷人两柱间。
昨暮予梦坐奠两柱之间，予始殷人也。
後七日卒。
孔子年七十三，以鲁哀公十六年四月己丑卒。
哀公诔之曰： 旻天不吊，不玦遗一老，俾屏余一人以在位，茕茕余在疚。
呜呼哀哉！尼父，毋自律！
子贡曰： 君其不没於鲁乎！
夫子之言曰： 礼失则昏，名失则愆。
失志为昏，失所为愆。
生不能用，死而诔之，非礼也。
称 余一人 ，非名也。
孔子葬鲁城北泗上，弟子皆服三年。
三年心丧毕，相诀而去，则哭，各复尽哀；或复留。
translation: 
Confucius was taking a leisurely walk with a cane in his mouth and said: Ci, why did you come so late?
Confucius sighed, and then sang: Mount Tai is about to fall!
The beams are about to break and the philosopher is about to die!
He shed tears as he sang.
He said to Zigong: The world has lost its normal way for a long time, and no one advocates my doctrine.
When a person from Xia died, his coffin was placed on the steps of the east chamber, when a person from Zhou died, his coffin was placed on the steps of the west chamber, and when a person from Yin died, his coffin was placed between the two pillars of the hall.
Last night I dreamed that I was sitting between two pillars and being worshiped. My ancestor was the Yin Shang Dynasty.
After that, Confucius died.
Confucius was seventy-three years old and died on Ji Chou day in April of the sixteenth year of Duke Ai of Lu.
Duke Ai of Lu wrote a eulogy for him and said: God is not kind and refuses to keep this old man. He leaves me alone and I am lonely and hurt. ah!
How painful! Nifu, there is no one who can serve as a role model for me to learn from!
Zigong said, "Master of Lu, can't he stay in Lu forever?"
The teacher said: Loss of Dharma will lead to confusion, and loss of status will lead to faults.
If you lose your will, you will become confused; if you lose your ability, you will make mistakes.
You cannot use the teacher while he is alive, but it is not appropriate to mourn him after he is dead.
It is inappropriate to call him "Yu Yiren" as a prince.
After his death, Confucius was buried on the shore of Surabaya, north of Lucheng. His disciples mourned him in their hearts for three years.
After three years of mourning, when everyone said goodbye and left, they all cried to each other and mourned each other; some even stayed.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
唯子赣庐於冢上，凡六年，然後去。
弟子及鲁人往从冢而家者百有馀室，因命曰孔里。
鲁世世相传以岁时奉祠孔子冢，而诸儒亦讲礼乡饮大射於孔子冢。孔子冢大一顷。
故所居堂弟子内，後世因庙藏孔子衣冠琴车书，至于汉二百馀年不绝。
高皇帝过鲁，以太牢祠焉。
诸侯卿相至，常先谒然後从政。
孔子生鲤，字伯鱼。
伯鱼年五十，先孔子死。
伯鱼生伋，字子思，年六十二。
尝困於宋。
子思作中庸。
子思生白，字子上，年四十七。
子上生求，字子家，年四十五。
子家生箕，字子京，年四十六。
子京生穿，字子高，年五十一。
子高生子慎，年五十七，尝为魏相。
子慎生鲋，年五十七，为陈王涉博士，死於陈下。
鲋弟子襄，年五十七。
尝为孝惠皇帝博士，迁为长沙太守。
translation: 
Only Zigong lived in a small room next to the tomb and guarded the tomb for a total of six years before leaving.
His disciples and others from the state of Lu led more than a hundred people who lived near the tomb. So this place was named Kongli.
It has been passed down from generation to generation in the State of Lu that they regularly visit Confucius's tomb every year to worship. Confucian scholars also come here at this time to learn etiquette, go to the countryside for academic examinations, have drinking ceremonies, and perform archery competitions and other ceremonies. Confucius's tomb is an area of ​​one hectare.
The main hall of Confucius's former residence and the inner rooms where his disciples lived were later converted into temples to store the clothes, hats, musical instruments, cars, books, etc. that Confucius wore during his lifetime. Until the Han Dynasty, it was not abandoned for more than 200 years.
Emperor Liu Bang of Gao Dynasty passed through the land of Lu and sacrificed Confucius with Tailao, which was equipped with cattle, sheep and pigs.
When princes, ministers, officials, and prime ministers arrive at their posts, they often visit the tomb of Confucius before taking office and handling government affairs.
Confucius gave birth to a carp, named Boyu.
Boyu died at the age of fifty, before Confucius.
Boyu gave birth to Ji, whose name was Zisi. Guo was sixty-two years old.
Once trapped in the Song Dynasty.
Zisi wrote "The Doctrine of the Mean".
Zisi gave birth to Bai, named Zishang, at the age of forty-seven.
Zishang gave birth to Qiu, named Zijia, at the age of forty-five.
Ji was born in Zi's family, named Zijing, and he died at the age of forty-six.
Zijing gave birth to Chuan Chuan, named Zi Gao, at the age of fifty-one.
Zigao gave birth to Shen, who died at the age of fifty-seven. He once served as the prime minister of Wei.
Zishen gave birth to Yu, and died at the age of fifty-seven. He was a doctor of King Sheng of Chen, and died in Chen.
Yu's younger brother is named Zixiang, who died at the age of fifty-seven.
He once served as a doctor for Emperor Xiaohui of the Han Dynasty and was later promoted to the prefect of Changsha County.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
长九尺六寸。
子襄生忠，年五十七。
忠生武，武生延年及安国。
安国为今皇帝博士，至临淮太守，蚤卒。
安国生卬，卬生驩。
太史公曰：诗有之： 高山仰止，景行行止。
虽不能至，然心乡往之。
余读孔氏书，想见其为人。
適鲁，观仲尼庙堂车服礼器，诸生以时习礼其家，余祗回留之不能去云。
天下君王至于贤人众矣，当时则荣，没则已焉。
孔子布衣，传十馀世，学者宗之。
自天子王侯，中国言六艺者折中於夫子，可谓至圣矣！
translation: 
Height nine feet six inches.
Zixiang gave birth to Zhong, who died at the age of fifty-seven.
Zhong gave birth to Wu, and Wu gave birth to Yannian and Anguo.
Anguo became the doctor of the current Emperor Xiaowu and became the prefect of Linhuai County. He died young and short.
Anguo gave birth to Yan, and Yan gave birth to Huan.
Tai Shigong said: There is this saying in "Poetry": The lofty mountains attract people to look up to, and the broad roads attract people to follow.
Although I have not been able to catch up with Confucius's era, I yearn for him in my heart.
When I read Confucius's works, I can imagine what he was like as a person.
When I arrived in Lu, I visited Confucius's temples, vehicles, clothes, and ritual vessels, and witnessed the students going to Confucius' old residence on time to practice etiquette. I lingered with reverence and didn't want to leave.
Since ancient times, there have been many kings and wise men in the world. They were all noble and glorious when they were alive, but nothing was lost when they died.
Confucius was a commoner. His reputation and teachings had been passed down for more than ten years, and people who read still respected him as their master.
From the emperor and princes to people all over the country who talk about the six arts, Confucius's teachings are regarded as the highest criterion for judgment. It can be said that Confucius is the supreme sage.


