Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 4, 9, 11, 13, 0, 28, 34]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孔子生鲁昌平乡陬邑。
其先宋人也，曰孔防叔。
防叔生伯夏，伯夏生叔梁纥。
纥与颜氏女野合而生孔子，祷於尼丘得孔子。
鲁襄公二十二年而孔子生。
生而首上圩顶，故因名曰丘云。字仲尼，姓孔氏。
丘生而叔梁纥死，葬於防山。
防山在鲁东，由是孔子疑其父墓处，母讳之也。
孔子为兒嬉戏，常陈俎豆，设礼容。
孔子母死，乃殡五父之衢，盖其慎也。
陬人輓父之母诲孔子父墓，然後往合葬於防焉。
孔子要绖，季氏飨士，孔子与往。
阳虎绌曰： 季氏飨士，非敢飨子也。
孔子由是退。
孔子年十七，鲁大夫孟釐子病且死，诫其嗣懿子曰： 孔丘，圣人之後，灭於宋。
其祖弗父何始有宋而嗣让厉公。
及正考父佐戴、武、宣公，三命兹益恭，故鼎铭云： 一命而偻，再命而伛，三命而俯，循墙而走，亦莫敢余侮。
translation: 
Confucius was born in Zouyi, Changping Township, Lu State.
His ancestor was from the Song Dynasty, named Uncle Kong Fang.
Uncle Fang gave birth to Bo Xia, and Bo Xia gave birth to Shu Liang He.
Shu Lianghe and Yehe, a woman named Yan, gave birth to Confucius. They got Confucius after they went to Niqiu Mountain to pray to the gods.
Confucius was born in the 22nd year of Duke Xiang of Lu.
The top of his head was concave when he was born, so he was named Qiu. The courtesy name is Zhongni and the surname is Kong.
Shortly after Confucius was born, his uncle Liang He died and was buried in Fangshan.
Fangshan was in the east of Lu State, so Confucius could not know for sure where his father's tomb was. His mother did not tell him where his father was buried.
When Confucius was a child, he played games, often setting up various sacrificial vessels and learning the ritual movements of sacrificial offerings.
After Confucius's mother died, she temporarily placed her coffin in the Five Fathers' Road without burying her. This was out of prudent consideration.
The mother of Wan's father, who was from Zouyi, told him the burial place of Confucius's father, and then Confucius moved his mother to Fangshan to be buried with his father.
When Confucius was mourning with a filial piety belt tied around his waist, Ji Sun held a banquet to entertain celebrities, and Confucius went to attend.
Ji Sun's retainer Yang Hu stopped him and said: "Ji's family is entertaining celebrities, but you are not invited."
Confucius withdrew because of this.
When Confucius was seventeen years old, Lizi, a senior official in the state of Lu, was critically ill. Before his death, he warned his son Yizi: Confucius is a descendant of a saint, and his ancestors perished in the Song Dynasty.
His ancestor Fufu He was supposed to succeed as the king of Song Dynasty, but he gave way to his younger brother Li Gong.
When another of his ancestors, Zheng Kao's father, assisted Song Dai Gong, Song Wu Gong, and Song Xuangong in three dynasties, he was more respectful every time he was given orders. Therefore, the inscription on Zheng Kao's father's tripod says: The first appointment was received with a bow, the second appointment was received with a bow, and the third appointment was bowed and received.

summary:
summary line 0: Confucius was born in Zouyi, Changping Township, Lu State, to Shu Lianghe and a woman named Yan after they prayed at Niqiu Mountain. His head was concave at birth, so he was named Qiu, with the courtesy name Zhongni and surname Kong. His father died shortly after his birth and was buried in Fangshan, but his mother did not reveal the location. As a child, Confucius played at setting up sacrificial vessels and learning ritual movements. After his mother died, he temporarily placed her coffin at the Five Fathers' Road until a neighbor told him his father's burial place, allowing him to bury them together. At seventeen, Meng Lizi, a senior official, warned his son Yizi that Confucius, a descendant of saints, should be taken as a teacher. After Lizi's death, Yizi and Nangong Jingshu learned etiquette from Confucius.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
饘於是，粥於是，以餬余口。
其恭如是。
吾闻圣人之後，虽不当世，必有达者。
今孔丘年少好礼，其达者欤？
吾即没，若必师之。
及釐子卒，懿子与鲁人南宫敬叔往学礼焉。
是岁，季武子卒，平子代立。
孔子贫且贱。
及长，尝为季氏史，料量平；尝为司职吏而畜蕃息。
由是为司空。
已而去鲁，斥乎齐，逐乎宋、卫，困於陈蔡之间，於是反鲁。
孔子长九尺有六寸，人皆谓之 长人 而异之。
鲁复善待，由是反鲁。
鲁南宫敬叔言鲁君曰： 请与孔子適周。
translation: 
When I walked, I avoided the middle of the road and walked against the wall, and no one dared to bully me. I just made batter and porridge in this cauldron to survive.
His frugality has reached this point.
I heard that although the descendants of saints may not necessarily become kings and govern, there will definitely be people with outstanding talents and virtues.
Now Confucius is young and courteous. Isn't he a man of outstanding talents and virtue?
If I die, you must take him as your teacher.
After Meng Lizi died, Meng Yizi and Nangong Jingshu, a native of Lu, went to Confucius to learn etiquette.
This year, Ji Wuzi died, and Pingzi succeeded to the throne.
Confucius' family was poor and of low status.
When he came of age, he worked as a clerk in charge of the Ji family's warehouse, and he was a cashier who could calculate money and grain fairly and accurately. He also worked as a clerk in charge of pastures, and he was able to breed livestock well.
Therefore, he was promoted to Sikong in charge of construction projects.
Not long after, he left the state of Lu, was ostracized in the state of Qi, was expelled in the states of Song and Wei, was besieged between the states of Chen and Cai, and finally returned to the state of Lu.
Confucius was nine feet six inches tall. People called him "The Long Man" because they thought he was different from ordinary people.
The State of Lu was still very kind to him, so he returned to the State of Lu.
Nangong Jingshu, a native of Lu, said to Duke Zhao of Lu: Please allow me to go on a mission to Zhou with Confucius.

summary:
summary line 1: Confucius' family was poor and of low status. He worked as a clerk managing the Ji family's warehouse and pastures, where he was fair and efficient, leading to his promotion to Sikong. He later left Lu, was ostracized in Qi, expelled in Song and Wei, besieged between Chen and Cai, and finally returned to Lu. At nine feet six inches tall, he was called "The Long Man." Nangong Jingshu requested Duke Zhao of Lu to allow Confucius to travel to Zhou to learn etiquette from Lao Tzu, who advised him to avoid speaking of others' faults and to act without selfish motives. After returning, Confucius gained many disciples.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
晏婴进曰： 夫儒者滑稽而不可轨法；倨傲自顺，不可以为下；崇丧遂哀，破产厚葬，不可以为俗；游说乞贷，不可以为国。
自大贤之息，周室既衰，礼乐缺有间。
今孔子盛容饰，繁登降之礼，趋详之节，累世不能殚其学，当年不能究其礼。
君欲用之以移齐俗，非所以先细民也。
後景公敬见孔子，不问其礼。
异日，景公止孔子曰： 奉子以季氏，吾不能。
以季孟之间待之。
齐大夫欲害孔子，孔子闻之。
景公曰： 吾老矣，弗能用也。
孔子遂行，反乎鲁。
孔子年四十二，鲁昭公卒於乾侯，定公立。
定公立五年，夏，季平子卒，桓子嗣立。
季桓子穿井得土缶，中若羊，问仲尼云 得狗 。
仲尼曰： 以丘所闻，羊也。
translation: 
Yan Ying dissuaded and said: Those Confucian scholars are eloquent, but the law cannot be used to restrain them; they are arrogant and self-righteous, and cannot be used by subordinates; they advocate funeral etiquette, exhaust their grief, and are willing to bankrupt their fortunes for a grand funeral. This practice cannot be allowed to become a trend; they lobby everywhere and beg for official salary, and they cannot be used to govern the country.
Since those sages passed away one after another, the Zhou royal family has also declined, and rituals have collapsed for some time.
Nowadays, Confucius pays attention to appearance and clothing, details the complicated etiquette of going to and from court, and deliberately pursues the deportment of hands and feet. These red tapes can be learned in several generations and cannot be understood in a lifetime.
If you want to use this set of rules to change the customs of Qi, I'm afraid this is not a good way to guide the people.
After that, although Qi Jinggong received Confucius politely, he no longer asked questions about etiquette.
One day, Jinggong comforted Confucius and said: I can't give you the same high treatment as I gave to the Ji family.
So I gave Confucius the same treatment as the Jisun family in the upper Qing Dynasty and the Mengsun family in the lower Qing Dynasty.
Some of the officials of Qi wanted to harm Confucius, and Confucius heard about it.
Jinggong said to Confucius: I am old and can no longer use you.
Confucius then left Qi and returned to Lu.
When Confucius was forty-two years old, Duke Zhao of Lu died in Qianhou, and Duke Din of Lu came to the throne.
In the summer of the fifth year after Duke Ding ascended the throne, Ji Pingzi died, and Ji Hengzi succeeded him as Shangqing.
When Ji Huanzi was digging a well, he found a pottery vessel with a large belly and a small mouth. There was something like a sheep inside. When he told Confucius, he lied that he had found a dog.
Confucius said: As far as I know, this is a sheep.

summary:
summary line 2: At thirty, Confucius advised Duke Jing of Qi that Qin's success came from its ambitious governance and use of talents like Baili Xi. At thirty-five, after political turmoil in Lu, Confucius went to Qi, where he studied music and advised Duke Jing on governance, emphasizing proper roles and frugality. However, Yan Ying dissuaded the duke from employing Confucius, criticizing Confucian rituals as impractical. Confucius left Qi and returned to Lu.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
於是齐侯乃归所侵鲁之郓、汶阳、龟阴之田以谢过。
定公十三年夏，孔子言於定公曰： 臣无藏甲，大夫毋百雉之城。
使仲由为季氏宰，将堕三都。於是叔孙氏先堕郈。
季氏将堕费，公山不狃、叔孙辄率费人袭鲁。
公与三子入于季氏之宫，登武子之台。
费人攻之，弗克，入及公侧。
孔子命申句须、乐颀下伐之，费人北。国人追之，败诸姑蔑。
二子奔齐，遂堕费。
将堕成，公敛处父谓孟孙曰： 堕成，齐人必至于北门。
且成，孟氏之保鄣，无成是无孟氏也。
我将弗堕。 十二月，公围成，弗克。
定公十四年，孔子年五十六，由大司寇行摄相事，有喜色。
translation: 
So Qi Jinggong returned the land of Yun, Wenyang, and Guiyin of Lu State that he had invaded in the past, in order to apologize and repent to Lu State.
In the summer of the thirteenth year of Duke Dinggong of Lu, Confucius said to Duke Dinggong: Weapons cannot be stored in the homes of ministers, and city walls one foot high and three hundred feet long cannot be built in the fiefdom of officials.
So he sent Zhong Yu to serve as Ji's retainer, intending to demolish the city walls of Ji Sun, Meng Sun and Shu Sun. At this time, Shusun first demolished the city wall of Liyi.
The Jisun family was also preparing to demolish the city wall of Feiyi. Gongshan Buxuan and Shusunsu led Feiyi's people to attack Lu.
Lu Dinggong, Ji Sun, Meng Sun, and Shu Sun hid in Ji Sun's house and climbed to the high altar of Ji Sun Wuzi.
The Feiyi people led by Gongshan Buxuan attacked them and failed to penetrate, but some people had already broken into the near side of Lu Dinggong's high altar.
Confucius ordered Shen Gouxu and Leqi to step down and attack them. The Feiyi people failed and fled. The Lu people took advantage of the victory to pursue them and completely defeated them in Gumi.
Gongshan Buxuan and Shusun Zhui fled to Qi State, and the city wall of Feiyi was finally demolished.
Then the city was ready to be demolished. Meng Sun's retainer Gong Lian Chufu told Meng Sun: "If the city wall of Cheng Yi is demolished, the people of Qi will definitely advance to our north gate."
Moreover, Chengcheng is also a barrier for your Meng family. Without Chengcheng, there is no Meng family. I'm not going to tear it down.
In December, Lu Dinggong led his troops to surround Chengcheng but could not capture it.
In the fourteenth year of Lu Dinggong, Confucius was fifty-six years old. He acted as the chief minister in the affairs of the prime minister, with a look of joy on his face.

summary:
summary line 3: At fifty, Confucius was appointed governor of Zhongdu, then promoted to Sikong and later to Grand Sikou. In the tenth year of Duke Ding of Lu, he organized a meeting at Jiagu between Lu and Qi, where he confronted Qi's disruptive performances and had performers executed. Qi returned invaded lands to Lu. In the thirteenth year, Confucius ordered the demolition of the city walls of Ji, Meng, and Shu families to curb their power, but the Meng family resisted, and the city of Cheng could not be captured.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
陈女乐文马於鲁城南高门外，季桓子微服往观再三，将受，乃语鲁君为周道游，往观终日，怠於政事。子路曰： 夫子可以行矣。
孔子曰： 鲁今且郊，如致膰乎大夫，则吾犹可以止。
桓子卒受齐女乐，三日不听政；郊，又不致膰俎於大夫。
孔子遂行，宿乎屯。
而师己送，曰： 夫子则非罪。 孔子曰： 吾歌可夫？
歌曰： 彼妇之口，可以出走；彼妇之谒，可以死败。
盖优哉游哉，维以卒岁！
师己反，桓子曰： 孔子亦何言？
师己以实告。
桓子喟然叹曰： 夫子罪我以群婢故也夫！
孔子遂適卫，主於子路妻兄颜浊邹家。
卫灵公问孔子： 居鲁得禄几何？
对曰： 奉粟六万。
卫人亦致粟六万。
translation: 
First, place the female musicians and the patterned horse float outside the high gate in the south of Lucheng. Ji Huanzi wore casual clothes and went to watch it again. He planned to accept it, so he told Jun Lu that he would go out to inspect various places. He would take the opportunity to go to the south gate all day long to watch the beauties and horses of Qi State. He didn't even bother to manage the political affairs of the country. Seeing this, Zilu said to Confucius: Teacher, we can leave here.
Confucius said: The State of Lu is about to hold a suburban ceremony. If the barbecue after the ceremony can be distributed to the officials according to the law, then I can stay here.
Ji Huanzi finally accepted the women's band sent by Qi State and did not attend to government affairs for three days. After the suburban sacrifice, he violated common etiquette and did not give the sacrificial meat and the ritual utensils used in the suburban sacrifice to the doctor.
So Confucius left the state of Lu and stayed in the camp overnight that day.
A musician named Shi Ji from the state of Lu came to see him off and said, "Sir, you are not at fault." Confucius said: Can I sing a song?
So he sang: Those women's mouths can drive away ministers and cronies; approaching those women can cause people to ruin their affairs.
Being leisurely and comfortable is the only way I can spend my time!
After Master Ji returned, Huanzi asked him: What did Confucius say?
Master, tell me the truth.
Huanzi sighed and said, "Sir, you blame us for accepting that group of female musicians from Qi State!"
Confucius then went to Weiguo and stayed at the home of Yan Zhuozou, the brother of Zilu's wife.
Duke Linggong of Wei asked Confucius: How much salary did you receive in Lu?
Confucius replied: Sixty thousand dou of salary.
Weiguo also gave him a salary of 60,000 dou.

summary:
summary line 4: At fifty-six, Confucius acted as chief minister, killing the official Shaozhengmao. Within three months, Lu's markets became honest, men and women walked separately, and lost items were not taken. Qi, fearing Lu's rise, sent eighty beautiful women and 120 horses to Lu. Ji Huanzi accepted them, neglecting state affairs. Confucius left Lu after the suburban sacrifice was mishandled, traveling to Wei, where he received a salary of 60,000 dou but left after slander. He was besieged in Kuang, mistaken for Yang Hu, but escaped. He returned to Wei, met Nanzi, and left after Duke Linggong's behavior disgusted him.

Chunk 13: 
original: 
孔子辞谢，不得已而见之。
夫人在絺帷中。
孔子入门，北面稽首。
夫人自帷中再拜，环珮玉声璆然。
孔子曰： 吾乡为弗见，见之礼答焉。
子路不说。
孔子矢之曰： 予所不者，天厌之！
天厌之！
居卫月馀，灵公与夫人同车，宦者雍渠参乘，出，使孔子为次乘，招摇巿过之。
孔子曰： 吾未见好德如好色者也。
於是丑之，去卫，过曹。
是岁，鲁定公卒。
孔子去曹適宋，与弟子习礼大树下。
宋司马桓魋欲杀孔子，拔其树。
孔子去。
弟子曰： 可以速矣。
孔子曰： 天生德於予，桓魋其如予何！
孔子適郑，与弟子相失，孔子独立郭东门。
translation: 
Confucius refused at first, but finally went to see her as a last resort.
The lady sat in the curtain made by Gebu and waited.
After Confucius entered the door, he kowtowed to the north.
The lady bowed twice in the curtain, and the jade jewelry she wore made a clear clanking sound.
Afterwards, Confucius said: I didn't want to see her before, but now that I have no choice but to see her, I should thank her politely.
Zilu was not happy.
Confucius swore: If what I say is not true, God will hate me!
Let God abandon me!
After living in Weiguo for more than a month, Duke Linggong and his wife Nan rode in a carriage together. The eunuch Yongqu accompanied him on the right side of the carriage. After leaving the palace, he asked Confucius to sit in the second carriage and follow him, walking through the market in a swaggering manner.
Confucius said: I have not seen him as fond of virtue as he is fond of beauty.
So he was disgusted with what Wei Linggong did, so he left Wei State and went to Cao State.
This year, Lu Dinggong passed away.
Confucius left the State of Cao and arrived in the State of Song, where he practiced etiquette with his disciples under a big tree.
Sima Huan of the Song Dynasty wanted to kill Confucius, so he cut down the tree.
Confucius had no choice but to leave this place.
The disciples urged: We can leave quickly.
Confucius said: Since God has given me the mission of preaching morality, what can Huan Miao do to me?
When Confucius arrived in the state of Zheng, he became separated from his disciples. Confucius stood alone at the east gate of the outer city.

summary:
summary line 5: Confucius traveled to Song, where Sima Huan tried to kill him, then to Zheng, where he was described as a lost dog. In Chen, he identified arrows from the Sushen tribe. After three years, he left due to invasions. At Pu, he was detained but escaped after a covenant. He returned to Wei, but Duke Linggong did not use him. He considered going to Jin but turned back after learning of the deaths of two virtuous officials. He returned to Wei, then left for Chen after Duke Linggong ignored him.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孔子生鲁昌平乡陬邑。
其先宋人也，曰孔防叔。
防叔生伯夏，伯夏生叔梁纥。
纥与颜氏女野合而生孔子，祷於尼丘得孔子。
鲁襄公二十二年而孔子生。
生而首上圩顶，故因名曰丘云。字仲尼，姓孔氏。
丘生而叔梁纥死，葬於防山。
防山在鲁东，由是孔子疑其父墓处，母讳之也。
孔子为兒嬉戏，常陈俎豆，设礼容。
孔子母死，乃殡五父之衢，盖其慎也。
陬人輓父之母诲孔子父墓，然後往合葬於防焉。
孔子要绖，季氏飨士，孔子与往。
阳虎绌曰： 季氏飨士，非敢飨子也。
孔子由是退。
孔子年十七，鲁大夫孟釐子病且死，诫其嗣懿子曰： 孔丘，圣人之後，灭於宋。
其祖弗父何始有宋而嗣让厉公。
及正考父佐戴、武、宣公，三命兹益恭，故鼎铭云： 一命而偻，再命而伛，三命而俯，循墙而走，亦莫敢余侮。
translation: 
Confucius was born in Zouyi, Changping Township, Lu State.
His ancestor was from the Song Dynasty, named Uncle Kong Fang.
Uncle Fang gave birth to Bo Xia, and Bo Xia gave birth to Shu Liang He.
Shu Lianghe and Yehe, a woman named Yan, gave birth to Confucius. They got Confucius after they went to Niqiu Mountain to pray to the gods.
Confucius was born in the 22nd year of Duke Xiang of Lu.
The top of his head was concave when he was born, so he was named Qiu. The courtesy name is Zhongni and the surname is Kong.
Shortly after Confucius was born, his uncle Liang He died and was buried in Fangshan.
Fangshan was in the east of Lu State, so Confucius could not know for sure where his father's tomb was. His mother did not tell him where his father was buried.
When Confucius was a child, he played games, often setting up various sacrificial vessels and learning the ritual movements of sacrificial offerings.
After Confucius's mother died, she temporarily placed her coffin in the Five Fathers' Road without burying her. This was out of prudent consideration.
The mother of Wan's father, who was from Zouyi, told him the burial place of Confucius's father, and then Confucius moved his mother to Fangshan to be buried with his father.
When Confucius was mourning with a filial piety belt tied around his waist, Ji Sun held a banquet to entertain celebrities, and Confucius went to attend.
Ji Sun's retainer Yang Hu stopped him and said: "Ji's family is entertaining celebrities, but you are not invited."
Confucius withdrew because of this.
When Confucius was seventeen years old, Lizi, a senior official in the state of Lu, was critically ill. Before his death, he warned his son Yizi: Confucius is a descendant of a saint, and his ancestors perished in the Song Dynasty.
His ancestor Fufu He was supposed to succeed as the king of Song Dynasty, but he gave way to his younger brother Li Gong.
When another of his ancestors, Zheng Kao's father, assisted Song Dai Gong, Song Wu Gong, and Song Xuangong in three dynasties, he was more respectful every time he was given orders. Therefore, the inscription on Zheng Kao's father's tripod says: The first appointment was received with a bow, the second appointment was received with a bow, and the third appointment was bowed and received.

summary:
summary line 6: At sixty, Confucius was in Chen. After Ji Huanzi's death, Ji Kangzi recalled Ran Qiu, and Confucius hoped to return. He moved to Cai, then to Ye, where he advised on governance. He met hermits Chang Ju and Jie Ni, who criticized his efforts. He was besieged between Chen and Cai, running out of food, but continued teaching. His disciples questioned their plight, but Confucius maintained his principles. King Zhao of Chu planned to grant him land, but Zixi dissuaded him, and the king died soon after. Confucius returned to Wei, then to Lu after fourteen years.

Chunk 28: 
original: 
追迹三代之礼，序书传，上纪唐虞之际，下至秦缪，编次其事。
曰： 夏礼吾能言之，杞不足徵也。
殷礼吾能言之，宋不足徵也。
足，则吾能徵之矣。
观殷夏所损益，曰： 後虽百世可知也，以一文一质。
周监二代，郁郁乎文哉。吾从周。 故书传、礼记自孔氏。
孔子语鲁大师： 乐其可知也。
始作翕如，纵之纯如，皦如，绎如也，以成。
吾自卫反鲁，然後乐正，雅颂各得其所。
古者诗三千馀篇，及至孔子，去其重，取可施於礼义，上采契后稷，中述殷周之盛，至幽厉之缺，始於衽席，故曰 关雎之乱以为风始，鹿鸣为小雅始，文王为大雅始，清庙为颂始 。
三百五篇孔子皆弦歌之，以求合韶武雅颂之音。
礼乐自此可得而述，以备王道，成六艺。孔子晚而喜易，序彖、系、象、说卦、文言。
读易，韦编三绝。曰： 假我数年，若是，我於易则彬彬矣。
孔子以诗书礼乐教，弟子盖三千焉，身通六艺者七十有二人。
translation: 
Confucius studied the etiquette system of the Xia, Shang, and Western Zhou dynasties, and compiled the chapters of Shuzhuan, starting from the time of Yao and Shun of Tang Dynasty, to Duke Mu of Qin Dynasty, and arranged them according to the order of events.
Confucius said: I can still describe the etiquette system of the Xia Dynasty, but the Qi State, a descendant of the Xia Dynasty, did not leave enough documents to prove it.
I can also tell you about the etiquette system of the Yin and Shang Dynasties, but the post-Song Dynasty of the Yin and Shang Dynasties did not leave enough documents to prove these systems.
If there are enough documents from Qi and Song, I can prove these systems.
After examining the additions and deletions made by the Yin Dynasty to the Xia Dynasty in the etiquette system, Confucius said: Even after a hundred years in the future, the increases and decreases can be predicted, because one kind of emphasis is on literary talent, and the other is on simplicity.
The etiquette system of the Zhou Dynasty was formulated based on the Xia Dynasty and the Yin Dynasty. It is so rich and colorful. I advocate using the etiquette of the Zhou Dynasty. Therefore, "Shu Zhuan" and "Book of Rites" were both compiled by Confucius.
Confucius once said to the music official Taishi of Lu: Music can be understood.
At the beginning of the performance, they should cooperate with each other, and continue to have a harmonious rhythm, clear and continuous sound, until the whole piece of music is completed.
Confucius also said: After I returned to Lu from Wei, I began to correct the poetry and music, restoring the original tunes of "Ya" and "Song".
There are more than 3,000 poems handed down from ancient times. At the time of Confucius, he deleted the repetitive ones and selected those that were consistent with the meaning for etiquette education. The earliest ones traced the ancestors of Yin, Qi, and the ancestors of Zhou, Houji. The second ones described the prosperity of the Yin and Zhou dynasties, until the political absence of King Zhou You and King Li of Zhou. The beginning was a poem describing the relationship and feelings between men and women, so it is said: The movement "Guan Sui" is the first chapter of "Guofeng", "Lu Ming" is the first chapter of "Xiao Ya", "King Wen" is the first chapter of "Daya", and "Qing Temple" is the first chapter of "Ode".
Confucius was able to play and sing the three hundred and five poems in order to match the tunes of the music "Shao", "Wu", "Ya" and "Song".
From then on, the music system of the former kings was restored to the old view and could be described. The king's way was complete, and Confucius also completed the compilation of "Poetry", "Book", "Yue", "Yi" and "Spring and Autumn" which are known as the "Six Arts". In his later years, Confucius liked to study "The Book of Changes". He explained in detail the "Yun Ci", "Xici", "Gua", "Classic Chinese", etc.
Confucius read the "Book of Changes" so diligently that he broke the cowhide rope that woven the slips through many times. He also said: If I live a few more years, I will be able to fully understand the diction and meaning of "The Book of Changes".
Confucius used "Poems", "Books", "Li" and "Music" as teaching materials to educate his disciples. There were about 3,000 disciples studying there, and 72 of them were proficient in the six skills of etiquette, music, archery, charioteering, arithmetic, and shu.

summary:
summary line 7: In Lu, Confucius was not appointed to office. He compiled the "Shu Zhuan" and "Book of Rites," corrected poetry and music, and studied the "Book of Changes," wearing out the binding cords. He taught about 3,000 disciples, with 72 mastering the six arts. He educated in knowledge, conduct, loyalty, and faith, avoiding profit unless linked to fate and benevolence. He was humble in his hometown but eloquent in court. He avoided spoiled food and improper seating, and showed sympathy to mourners and the blind.

Chunk 34: 
original: 
唯子赣庐於冢上，凡六年，然後去。
弟子及鲁人往从冢而家者百有馀室，因命曰孔里。
鲁世世相传以岁时奉祠孔子冢，而诸儒亦讲礼乡饮大射於孔子冢。孔子冢大一顷。
故所居堂弟子内，後世因庙藏孔子衣冠琴车书，至于汉二百馀年不绝。
高皇帝过鲁，以太牢祠焉。
诸侯卿相至，常先谒然後从政。
孔子生鲤，字伯鱼。
伯鱼年五十，先孔子死。
伯鱼生伋，字子思，年六十二。
尝困於宋。
子思作中庸。
子思生白，字子上，年四十七。
子上生求，字子家，年四十五。
子家生箕，字子京，年四十六。
子京生穿，字子高，年五十一。
子高生子慎，年五十七，尝为魏相。
子慎生鲋，年五十七，为陈王涉博士，死於陈下。
鲋弟子襄，年五十七。
尝为孝惠皇帝博士，迁为长沙太守。
translation: 
Only Zigong lived in a small room next to the tomb and guarded the tomb for a total of six years before leaving.
His disciples and others from the state of Lu led more than a hundred people who lived near the tomb. So this place was named Kongli.
It has been passed down from generation to generation in the State of Lu that they regularly visit Confucius's tomb every year to worship. Confucian scholars also come here at this time to learn etiquette, go to the countryside for academic examinations, have drinking ceremonies, and perform archery competitions and other ceremonies. Confucius's tomb is an area of ​​one hectare.
The main hall of Confucius's former residence and the inner rooms where his disciples lived were later converted into temples to store the clothes, hats, musical instruments, cars, books, etc. that Confucius wore during his lifetime. Until the Han Dynasty, it was not abandoned for more than 200 years.
Emperor Liu Bang of Gao Dynasty passed through the land of Lu and sacrificed Confucius with Tailao, which was equipped with cattle, sheep and pigs.
When princes, ministers, officials, and prime ministers arrive at their posts, they often visit the tomb of Confucius before taking office and handling government affairs.
Confucius gave birth to a carp, named Boyu.
Boyu died at the age of fifty, before Confucius.
Boyu gave birth to Ji, whose name was Zisi. Guo was sixty-two years old.
Once trapped in the Song Dynasty.
Zisi wrote "The Doctrine of the Mean".
Zisi gave birth to Bai, named Zishang, at the age of forty-seven.
Zishang gave birth to Qiu, named Zijia, at the age of forty-five.
Ji was born in Zi's family, named Zijing, and he died at the age of forty-six.
Zijing gave birth to Chuan Chuan, named Zi Gao, at the age of fifty-one.
Zigao gave birth to Shen, who died at the age of fifty-seven. He once served as the prime minister of Wei.
Zishen gave birth to Yu, and died at the age of fifty-seven. He was a doctor of King Sheng of Chen, and died in Chen.
Yu's younger brother is named Zixiang, who died at the age of fifty-seven.
He once served as a doctor for Emperor Xiaohui of the Han Dynasty and was later promoted to the prefect of Changsha County.

summary:
summary line 8: In his later years, Confucius compiled the "Spring and Autumn Annals" based on Lu's history, covering twelve rulers. He used subtle writing to praise and criticize, making rebellious officials fearful. He died at seventy-three in the sixteenth year of Duke Ai of Lu. Duke Ai mourned him, but Zigong criticized the eulogy. Confucius was buried north of Lucheng. Disciples mourned for three years, with Zigong staying six years. His tomb became a site of annual worship, and his former residence was turned into a temple, preserved for over 200 years. Emperor Liu Bang of Han sacrificed to him. Confucius' descendants continued his lineage, including his son Boyu, who died before him, and grandson Zisi, who wrote "The Doctrine of the Mean." The historian concluded that Confucius, though a commoner, became the supreme sage, with his teachings enduring for generations.

