Chunk 0: 
original: 
荀淑子爽孙悦韩韶钟皓陈寔子纪荀淑字季和，颍川颍阴人，荀卿十一世孙也。
少有高行，博学而不好章句，多为俗儒所非，而州里称其知人。
安帝时，征拜郎中，后再迁当涂长。
去职还乡里。
当世名贤李固、李膺等皆师宗之。
及梁太后临朝，有日食地震之变，诏公卿举贤良方正，光禄勋杜乔、少府房植举淑对策，讥刺贵幸，为大将军梁冀所忌，出补朗陵侯相。
莅事明理，称为神君。
顷之，弃官归，闲居养志。
产业每增，辄以赡宗族知友，年六十七，建和三年卒，李膺时为尚书，自表师丧。
二县皆为立祠。
有子八人：俭、绲、靖、焘、汪、爽、肃、专，并有名称，时人谓之 八龙 。
translation: 
◆The biography of Xun Shu, named Jihe, was a native of Yingyin, Yingchuan County, and the eleventh generation grandson of Xun Qing.
When he was young, he had noble virtues and profound knowledge. He did not like to carve out chapters and sentences. He only worked on words and did not pay attention to practical knowledge.
Therefore, he is often looked down upon by vulgar scholars. But the state said he knew people well. During the reign of Emperor An, he was recruited as a doctor, and later promoted to Tu Chang.
Resigned and returned to his hometown.
The famous sages Li Gu and Li Ying respected him as their teacher.
When the Empress Dowager Liang was in charge of the government, there were changes caused by solar eclipses and earthquakes. She issued an order to the ministers to promote the virtuous and upright. Guangluxun Du Qiao and Shaofu Fang Zhi promoted Xun Shu to answer the emperor's questions. Xun Shu ridiculed and accused the emperor's noble relatives and favored people. The general Liang Ji was jealous and transferred him to serve as the Marquis of Langling.
He is upright in his duties and knows how to govern, so he is called the "divine king".
Not long after, he resigned and returned home to live leisurely and cultivate his ambitions.
When the family property increases, it is distributed among clan members and close friends. He was sixty-seven years old and died in the third year of Jianhe. Li Ying was appointed minister at this time, and he submitted himself to the imperial court and mourned for three years.
Both counties have temples.
There were eight sons: Jian, Nian, Jing, Tao, Wang, Shuang, Su, and Zhuan. They were all famous. People at that time called them "Eight Dragons".


Chunk 1: 
original: 
初，荀氏旧里名西豪，颍阴令勃海苑康以为昔高阳氏有才子八人，今荀氏亦有八子，故改其里曰高阳里。
靖有至行，不仕，年五十而终，号曰玄行先生。
淑兄子昱字伯条，昙字无智。
昱为沛相，昙为广陵太守。
兄弟皆正身疾恶，志除阉宦。
其支党宾客有在二郡者，纤罪必诛。
昱后共大将军窦武谋诛中官，与李膺俱死。
昙亦禁锢终身。
爽字慈明，一名谞。
幼而好学，年十二，能通《春秋》、《论语》。
太尉杜乔见而称之，曰 可为人师 爽遂耽思经书，庆吊不行，征命不应。
颍川为之语曰 荀氏八龙，慈明无双
延熹九年，太常赵典举爽至孝，拜郎中。
对策陈便宜曰：臣闻之于师曰 汉为火德，火生于木，木盛于火，故其德为孝，其象在《周易》之《离》 夫在地为火，在天为日。
translation: 
At first, the Xun family's old neighborhood was called Xihao. Yingyin ordered Bohai Yuankang to think that the Gaoyang family had eight talented people in the past, and now the Xun family also has eight, so he changed the old neighborhood to Gaoyangli.
Xun Jing was a virtuous man who refused to be an official. He died at the age of fifty and was named Mr. Xuan Xing.
Xun Shu's son Xun Yu was named Bo Tiao, and Xun Tan was named Yuan Zhi.
Xun Yu was the prime minister of Pei, and Xun Tan was the prefect of Guangling.
The brothers all hated evil and were determined to eradicate eunuchs.
The guests of the eunuch's branch were in the second county. Even if they committed minor crimes, they would be killed without mercy.
Xun Yu later murdered the eunuch with General Dou Wu and died together with Li Ying.
Xun Tan was also imprisoned for life.
◆Xun Shuang's biography, Shuang's courtesy name is Ciming.
I have been eager to learn since I was a child. At the age of twelve, I understood "Spring and Autumn" and "The Analects of Confucius".
Taiwei Du Qiao saw him and praised him: "He can be a teacher." Xun Shuang then began to think deeply about the scriptures. There were celebrations and funerals in the village, but he did not participate. When the country called for conscription, he did not answer.
There is a popular saying in Yingchuan: Xun's eight dragons are unparalleled in their kindness and wisdom.
In the ninth year of Yanxi's reign, Taichang Zhao Dian recommended Xun Shuang as the most filial piety and paid homage to the doctor.
In response to Ce's question, he stated what he thought the country should do and said: I heard the teacher say: The Han Dynasty is a virtue of fire, fire is born from wood, and its essence is from fire. Fire, the son of wood; Xia, the position of fire. The wood grows in summer, so it is called filial piety. Its image is found in "Li" in "The Book of Changes". It is fire on the earth and sun in the sky.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
在天者用其精，在地者用其形。
夏则火王，其精在天，温暖之气，养生百木，是其孝也。
冬时则废，其形在地，酷烈之气，焚烧山林，是其不孝也。
故汉制使天下诵《孝经》，选吏举孝廉。
夫丧亲自尽，孝之终也。
今之公卿及二千石，三年之丧，不得即去，殆非所以增崇孝道而克称火德者也。
往者孝文劳谦，行过乎俭，故有遗诏以日易月。
此当时之宜，不可贯之万世。
古今之制虽有损益，而谅暗之礼未尝改移，以示天下莫遗其亲。
今公卿群寮皆政教所瞻，而父母之丧不得奔赴。
夫仁义之行，自上而始。敦厚之俗，以应乎下。
传曰 丧祭之礼阙，则人臣之恩薄，背死忘生者众矣 曾子曰 人未有自致者，必也亲丧乎 《春秋传》曰 上之所为，民之归也 夫上所不为而民或为之，故加刑罚。
若上之所为，民亦为之，又何诛焉。
translation: 
Those in the sky use its essence, and those on the earth use its form.
Summer is the time of the Fire King, and his essence is in the sky. The warm air makes hundreds of trees grow, this is filial piety.
Winter decays, its shape is on the ground, its fierce air burns the mountains and forests, this is unfilial.
Therefore, the system of the Han Dynasty made everyone in the world recite the "Book of Filial Piety", and elected officials to recommend filial piety and integrity.
He committed suicide and exhausted his grief.
Nowadays, when a minister has two thousand shi and is not satisfied with the three years of mourning, he becomes an official. This cannot be called advocating filial piety and overcoming the virtue of fire, right?
In the past, Xiaowen was industrious and modest, and his behavior was too frugal, so his edicts changed with the passing of the day and the moon.
This was appropriate at the time and should not be followed forever.
Although various systems in ancient and modern times have sometimes been added and sometimes subtracted, only the funeral etiquette has not changed. It is to tell people all over the world not to forget their parents.
Nowadays, the public ministers and officials are role models for the common people, and when their parents pass away, they do not go back to pay their respects to them.
Originally, the journey of benevolence and righteousness had to start from the top, so that honest and simple customs could be spread to the bottom.
Legend: If the rituals of the funeral ceremony are lacking, the kindness of the ministers will be weak, and there will be more people who will die without support.
Zengzi said: No one commits suicide. If there is, it is only after the death of his parents. "Spring and Autumn Annals" says: The common people must follow whatever the superiors do.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
昔丞相翟方进，以自备宰相，而不敢逾制。
至遭母忧，三十六日而除。
夫失礼之源，自上而始。
古者大丧三年不呼其门，所以崇国厚俗笃化之道也。
事失宜正，过勿惮改。
天下通丧，可如旧礼。臣闻有夫妇然后有父子，有父子然后有君臣，有君臣然后有上下，有上下然后有礼仪。礼义备，则人知所厝矣。
夫妇人伦之始，王化之端，故文王作《易》，上经首《乾》、《坤》，下经首《咸》、《恒》孔子曰 天尊地卑，乾坤定矣 夫妇之道，所谓顺也。
《尧典》曰 釐降二女于妫汭，嫔于虞 降者下也，嫔者妇也。
言虽帝尧之女，下嫁于虞，犹屈体降下，勤修妇道。
translation: 
As for the higher-ups not doing it, but the common people do, then they will be punished; if the higher-ups do it, and the common people follow suit, how can they be punished?
In the past, Prime Minister Zhai Fangjin thought that he was the prime minister and did not dare to undermine the system. When my mother died, I was in mourning for thirty-six days before returning to work.
The root of the faux pas lies above.
In ancient times, people stayed away from their homes for three years in great mourning, in order to respect the country's etiquette, uphold customs, and emphasize education.
If something is done wrong, it should be corrected. If you make a mistake, you should not be afraid of correcting it.
All funerals in the world can be carried out according to the previous etiquette. I heard that there is a couple and then there is a father and son, there is a father and a son and then there are monarchs and ministers, there are monarchs and ministers and then there are superiors and subordinates, there are superiors and subordinates and then there are etiquette and righteousness. When etiquette and righteousness are complete, everyone will know how to behave.
Husband and wife are the beginning of the relationship between people and the basis for the moralization of the king. Therefore, King Wen wrote "Yi", with "Qian" and "Kun" at the beginning of the upper sutra, and "Xian" and "Heng" at the beginning of the lower sutra. Confucius said: The sky is high and the high is low, but the universe is fixed. The relationship between husband and wife depends on smoothness.
"Yao Dian" says: Gui surrendered two daughters to Gui and a concubine to Yu. The concubine is the wife.
This means that when Emperor Yao's daughter marries Yu, she must be respectful and diligent in practicing women's ways.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
《易》曰 帝乙归妹，以祉元吉 妇人谓嫁曰归，言汤以娶礼归其妹于诸侯也。
《春秋》之义，王姬嫁齐，使鲁主之，不以天子之尊加于诸侯也。
今汉承秦法，设尚主之仪，以妻制夫，以卑临尊，违乾坤之道，失阳唱之义。
孔子曰 昔圣人之作《易》也，仰则观象于天，俯则察法于地，睹鸟兽之文，与地之宜。
近取诸身，远取诸物，以通神明之德，以类万物之情 今观法于天，则北极至尊，四星妃后。察法于地，则昆山象夫，卑泽象妻。
睹鸟兽之文，鸟则雄者鸣鸲，雌则顺服。
兽则牡为唱导，牝乃相从。
近取诸身，则乾为人首，坤为人腹。
远取诸物，则木实属天，根荄属地。
阳尊阴卑，盖乃天性。
且《诗》初篇实首《关雎》。《礼》始《寇》、《婚》，先正夫妇。
天地《六经》，其旨一揆。
translation: 
"Book of Changes" says: Emperor Yi returned to his younger sister to bring good luck to Yuan Yuan. When a woman goes to marry and is called back, it means that Tang returns his sister to the princes according to the marriage ceremony.
The great righteousness of "Spring and Autumn" is that Wang Ji marries Qi and makes Lu take charge. This is not conferring the dignity of the emperor on the princes.
Now the Han Dynasty has inherited the etiquette and law of the Qin Dynasty, established the etiquette system of worshiping the Lord, using the wife to control the husband, and using the humble to deal with the superior, which violates the law of the universe and the heaven and the high, and loses the meaning of yang singing yin.
Confucius said: In the past, when the sages wrote the "Yi", they would look up to the sky to observe the phenomena, and when they were down to observe the laws on the ground, they would observe the literary talents of birds and beasts and see how they suit the earth.
The near ones are taken from oneself, the far ones are taken from things, and are used to communicate the virtues of gods and express the emotions of all things. Now when I observe the Dharma in the sky, I am the Supreme Beichen, the Queen of the Four Stars. When I observe the Dharma on the earth, I am like a high mountain like a husband, and a lowly lake is like a wife.
Looking at the literary talents of birds and beasts, the male bird is the robin, and the female bird is submissive.
The beast is the advocate of the male, and the obedience of the mother.
If the nearest ones are taken from the body, Qian becomes the person's head and Kun becomes the person's belly.
If things are distant, the fruits of trees belong to heaven and the roots of grass belong to earth.
Yang is noble and Yin is humble. This is probably the nature of things.
Moreover, the first chapter of "Poetry" is "Guan Sui", and "Li" begins with "Guan" and "Marriage", the first couple.
The principles of Heaven, Earth and Six Classics are the same.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
宜改尚主之制，以称乾坤之性。
昔者圣人建天地之中而谓之礼，礼者，所以兴福祥之本，而止祸乱之源也。
人能枉欲从礼者，则福归之。顺情废礼者，则祸归之。
故天子娶十二，天之数也。
诸侯以下各有等差，事之降也。
阳性纯而能施，阴体顺而能化，以礼济乐，节宣其气。故能丰子孙之祥，致老寿之福。
及三代之季，淫而无节。瑶台、倾宫，陈妾数百。
阳竭于上，阴隔天下。
故周公之戒曰 不知稼穑之艰难，不闻小人之劳，惟耽乐之从，时亦罔或克寿 是其明戒。
后世之人，好福不务其本，恶祸不易其轨。
translation: 
The system of Shangzhu should be changed to conform to the nature of Qiankun.
Follow the laws of Yao and Tang, follow the laws of Zhou Gong and Confucius, comply with the laws of heaven and earth without making mistakes, and ask ghosts and gods without doubts. If we can act like this, then auspicious signs will come from the sky and talismans will come from the earth. The fifth is to prepare everything in order. In the past, saints established impartiality in heaven and earth, which was called etiquette. Ritual is the foundation for prosperity and good fortune, and it blocks the source of disaster.
If a person can abandon selfish desires and act according to etiquette, blessing will come; if a person abandons etiquette according to the mood, disaster will come.
By studying the reactions of misfortunes and blessings, we can understand the causes of prosperity and failure.
Among the many etiquettes, the etiquette of marriage is the first. Therefore, the number of days when the emperor marries twelve is like this, and there are equal differences among the princes and below. Such is the order of things.
The yang body is pure, so it can be used; the yin body is smooth, so it can be transformed. By mixing music with rituals, Qi can be propagated and controlled, so you can have many children and grandchildren, and live a long and healthy life.
In the late third generation, there was no excess of lust, and there were hundreds of wives and concubines in Yaotai and Qing palace.
The yang energy is exhausted above and the yin energy is blocked below.
Therefore Zhou Gong warned: If you don’t know how hard agricultural labor is, and you don’t know how workers work, you will not live long if you only know how to enjoy yourself. This is a clear commandment.
Later people, if they want good fortune, they don't work hard at the fundamentals, and if they hate misfortune, they don't know how to correct their mistakes.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
传曰 截趾适屦，孰云其愚。
何与斯人，追欲丧躯 诚可痛也。
臣窃闻后宫采女五六千人，从官侍使复在其外。
冬夏衣服，朝夕禀粮，耗费缣帛，空竭府藏，征调增倍，十而税一，空赋不辜之民，以供无用之女，百姓穷困于外，阴阳隔塞于内。
故感动和气，灾异屡臻。
臣愚以为诸非礼聘未曾幸御者，一皆遣出，使成妃合。
一曰通怨旷，和阴阳。二曰省财用，实府藏。三曰修礼制，绥眉寿。
四曰配阳施，祈螽斯。五曰宽役赋，安黎民。
此诚国家之弘利，天人之大福也。夫寒热晦明，所以为岁。
尊卑奢俭，所以为礼：故以晦明寒暑之气，尊卑侈约之礼为其节也。
《易》曰 天地节而四时成 《春秋传》曰 唯器与名不可以假人 《孝经》曰 安上治民，莫善于礼 礼者，尊卑之差，上下之制也。
translation: 
"The Biography" says: Who says he is stupid if he cuts off his toes and wears shoes?
How can you compare to this man, who indulges in lust and loses his body? It really hurts!
I heard that there are five to six thousand beauties in the harem, not counting those serving as officials.
Clothes in winter and summer, food in the morning and evening, are wasted on silk, which makes the country's treasury empty, and even doubles the tax, collects one cent every ten, and collects as much money as possible from the innocent people to spend on the useless palace ladies. The people are impoverished outside, and the yin and yang are blocked inside.
As a result, he was moved by harmony, and disasters struck again and again.
I think that all the palace maids who are not invited and have not been favored should be sent away so that they can get married and start a family.
In this way, firstly, the resentment of the husband and the daughter can be reconciled, and the yin and yang qi can be reconciled; secondly, expenses can be saved to enrich the treasury; thirdly, rituals can be cultivated and longevity can be achieved.
Fourth, with Yang Shi, pray for more children and grandchildren; fifth, reduce taxes and provincial services, so that the people can live and work in peace and contentment.
This is a great benefit to the country and a great blessing to the people of the world! Cold and heat obscure the light, so it becomes the year; respect for the humble, luxury and frugality, so it becomes the ritual.
Therefore, the etiquette of obscuring the cold and heat, respecting the humble, and extravagant covenants are regarded as major festivals and must not be violated. "Yi" says: The heaven and earth are in harmony with the four seasons.
"Spring and Autumn Annals" says: Only the vehicle uniforms and titles cannot be borrowed from others. "The Classic of Filial Piety" says: There is nothing better than etiquette to govern the people. Ritual is what distinguishes the differences between superior and inferior, and establishes the system of superiority and inferiority.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
昔季氏八佾舞于庭，非有伤害困于人物，而孔子犹曰 是可忍也，孰不可忍 《洪范》曰 惟辟作威，惟辟作福，惟辟玉食 凡此三者，君所独行而臣不得同也。
今臣僭君服，下食上珍，所谓害于而家，凶于而国者也。
宜略依古礼尊卑之差，及董仲舒制度之别，严督有司，必行其命。此则禁乱善俗足用之要。
奏闻，即弃官去。
后遭党锢，隐于海上，又南遁汉滨，积十馀年，以著述为事，遂称为硕儒。
党禁解，五府并辟，司空袁逢举有道，不应。
及逢卒，爽制服三年，当世往往化以为俗。
时人多不行妻服，虽在亲忧犹有吊问丧疾者，又私谥其君父及诸名士，爽皆引据大义，正之经典，虽不悉变，亦颇有改。
后公车征为大将军何进从事中郎。
进恐其不至，迎荐为侍中，及进败而诏命中绝。
translation: 
In the past, eight hundred people of the Ji family danced in the court without harming anyone or anything. Confucius also said: This can be tolerated, what else cannot be tolerated. "Hong Fan" says: Only you can exercise authority, only you can bring blessings, and only you can eat well.
These three items are what the monarch alone does and his ministers are not allowed to be the same as the monarch. Now the ministers wear the monarch's clothes, and the people below eat precious things that only those above can eat. This is called harm to your family and your country!
Officials should be strictly ordered and implemented in strict accordance with ancient rituals and the distinction between superior and inferior in Dong Zhongshu's system. This is to prohibit disorder, improve customs, and use money to its fullest extent.
After the memorial was delivered, he abandoned his official position and left.
Later, he was troubled by Li Ying and others' struggle with the eunuchs. He lived in seclusion on the sea, and then fled south to Hanbin. He spent more than ten years writing books and was called a great Confucian.
After the party ban was lifted, he was recruited by all the five governments. Sikong Yuan Feng recommended him because of his righteousness, but he was not accepted.
When Yuan Feng died, Xun Shuang mourned him for three years. At that time, people often followed his example and it became a custom.
At that time, many people couldn't bear the death of their wives. Even if their parents died, there were still people who expressed their condolences. He also privately named his father and some celebrities after their death. Xun Shuang quoted the classics to discuss whether he was right or wrong. Although not all of his changes could be followed, there were some changes.
Later, he was recruited by General He Jin to serve as a lieutenant.
He Jin was afraid that he would not go, so he recommended him as a servant. However, He Jin was defeated and the edict was interrupted.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
献帝即位，董卓辅政，复征之。
爽欲遁命，吏持之急，不得去，因复就拜平原相。
行至宛陵，复追为光禄勋。
视事三日，进拜司空。
爽自被征命及登台司，九十五日。
因从迁都长安。
爽见董卓忍暴滋甚，必危社稷，其所辟举皆取才略之士，将共图之，亦与司徒王允及卓长史何颙等为内谋。会病薨，年六十三。
著《礼》、《易传》、《诗传》、《尚书正经》、《春秋条例》，又集汉事成败可为鉴戒者，谓之《汉语》。又作《公羊问》及《辩谶》，并它所论叙，题为《新书》。
凡百馀篇，今多所亡缺。
兄子悦、彧并知名。
彧自有传。
论曰：荀爽、郑玄、申屠蟠俱以儒行为处士，累征并谢病不诣。
及董卓当朝，复备礼召之。
蟠、玄竟不屈以全其高。
爽已黄发矣，独至焉，未十旬而取卿相。
不然，何为违贞吉而履虎尾焉。观其逊言迁都之议，以救杨、黄之祸。
及后潜图董氏，几振国命，所谓 大直若屈 ，道故逶迤也。
悦字仲豫，俭之子也。
俭早卒。
悦年十二，能说《春秋》。
translation: 
Emperor Xian ascended the throne, Dong Zhuo assisted in the administration, and he was recruited.
Xun Shuang wanted to escape the conquest, but the officials pressed him hard and had to go, so he worshiped Prime Minister Ping Ping.
When he got to Wanling, he pursued him as Guang Luxun.
After three days of service, he was promoted to Sikong.
It had only been ninety-five days since Xun Shuang was summoned to the stage.
Because he moved the capital to Chang'an.
Xun Shuang saw that Dong Zhuo was very cruel and determined to overthrow the country. He recommended some wise and resourceful talents and was ready to work with them to plan great things. He also conspired with Situ Wang Yun and Dong Zhuo Chang Shi, and died of illness at the age of sixty-three.
Xun Shuang wrote "Li", "Yizhuan", "Shizhuan", "Shangshu Zhengjing", and "Spring and Autumn Regulations"; he also collected the history of the Han Dynasty and its successes and failures as a reference, called "Hanyu"; he also wrote "Gongyang Wen" and "Bian Prophecy", plus other narrations, titled "New Book".
There are more than a hundred chapters in total, many of which are now missing.
Brothers Xun Yue and Xun are both famous.
Xun has another biography.
The historian commented: Xun Shuang, Zheng Xuan, and Shen Tupan all practiced Confucianism and became virgins at home. The imperial court summoned him repeatedly, but he always said that he was ill and would not go away.
When Dong Zhuo came to power, he once again recruited them with courtesy.
Shen Tupan and Zheng Xuan finally preserved their integrity.
Xun Shuang's hair was already yellow at that time, so he went alone and became prime minister in less than ten days.
Some people suspect that it is wrong for him to be so forward and backward. I discussed Xun Shuang's thoughts and believed that it is important for a gentleman to go out to serve the world and retreat to the privacy of his home. If the world is peaceful, one should carry forward the great road to realize one's own ambitions. If the world is in chaos, one should also devote oneself to the world to remedy the shortcomings of the times. Isn't Xun Shuang's eagerness to encourage himself a great virtue that a gentleman should have?
Otherwise, why should we step on the tiger's tail instead of taking a safe and smooth road? Seeing that he did not talk about moving the capital, saving Yang Biao and Huang Wan from disaster, and later plotting against Dong Zhuo, the country's destiny was almost revitalized. As the saying goes, the road is originally tortuous.
◆Xun Yue's biography, Xun Yue's courtesy name is Zhongyu, and he is the son of Xun Jian.
Xun Jian died early.
When Xun Yue was twelve years old, he was able to explain "Spring and Autumn".


Chunk 9: 
original: 
家贫无书，每之人间，所见篇牍，一览多能诵记。
性沉静，美姿容，尤好著述。
灵帝时阉官用权，士多退身穷处，悦乃托疾隐居，时人莫之识，唯从弟彧特称敬焉。
初辟镇东将军曹操府，迁黄门侍郎。
献帝颇好文学，悦与彧及少府孔融侍讲禁中，旦夕谈论。
累迁秘书监、侍中。
时，政移曹氏，天子恭己而已。
悦志在献替，而谋无所用，乃作《申鉴》五篇。
其所论辩，通见政体，既成而奏之。
其大略曰：夫道之本，仁义而已矣。
五典以经之，群籍以纬之，咏之歌之，弦之舞之，前监既明，后复申之。
故古之圣王，其于仁义也，申重而已。
致政之术，先屏四患，乃崇五政。
translation: 
My family was poor and I had no books, so I often went to other people's homes and saw chapters and writings, and I could recite most of them.
He has a calm and quiet personality, beautiful appearance, and is especially fond of writing books.
During the reign of Emperor Ling, eunuchs used power and scholars generally did not serve as officials and retired to poverty. Xun Yue took advantage of his illness and lived in seclusion. At that time, people did not know what kind of person he was. Only his cousin Xun praised him and respected him.
He was initially promoted to General Zhendong in Cao Cao's Mansion, and was promoted to Minister of Huangmen.
Emperor Xian was fond of literature, and Xun Yue talked with Xun Yue and Shaofu Kong Rong in the palace morning and evening.
He was promoted to Secretary, Supervisor, and Attendant.
At that time, the political power was transferred to Cao Cao. The emperor did not care about politics, and the power was only in his position.
Xun Yue had the ambition to criticize and remonstrate, but the emperor did not use it, so he wrote five chapters in "Shenjian".
What is discussed is the essence of politics. After the book was written, it was reported to the emperor.
The content is summarized as follows: The foundation of the great road can be summarized by the two words benevolence and righteousness.
The five classics use it as the sutra, and the group of books use it as the weft. They chant and recite it, compose the music, and dance the form. The previous lessons are clear, and they will be elaborated later.
Therefore, in ancient times, the sages and kings always taught one or even three things about benevolence and righteousness.
In the art of government, we must first eliminate the four dangers, and then focus on the five political affairs.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
一曰伪，二曰私，三曰放，四曰奢。
伪乱俗，私坏法，放越轨，奢败制。
四者不除，则政末由行矣。
夫俗乱则道荒，虽天地不得保其性矣。法坏则世倾，虽人主不得守其度矣。轨越则礼亡，虽圣人不得全其道矣。制败则欲肆，虽四表不得充其求矣。
是谓四患。
兴农桑以养其生，审好恶以正其俗，宣文教以章其化，立武备以秉其威，明赏罚以统其法。
是谓五政。
人不畏死，不可惧以罪。人不乐生，不可劝以善。
虽使契布五教，皋陶作士，政不行焉。
故在上者先丰人财以定其志，帝耕籍田，后桑蚕宫，国无游人，野无荒业，财不贾用，力不妄加，以周人事。
是谓养生。
translation: 
The so-called four troubles: one is hypocrisy, the other is selfishness, the third is freedom, and the fourth is extravagance.
Hypocrisy disrupts customs, selfishness corrupts laws, debauchery creates no rules, and luxury cannot be restrained.
If these four are not eliminated, the country's politics will be unable to be implemented.
When the customs are disordered, the great road cannot be carried out, and even heaven and earth cannot maintain its nature; when the country's laws and disciplines are corrupt, the society cannot be peaceful, and even the king cannot adhere to his principles; when people act recklessly, and people's behavior is out of control, even the saints cannot maintain their integrity; when people's desires are rampant and there is no control, even if they are big, they cannot satisfy their requirements.
This is called the four troubles.
Promoting agriculture and mulberry trees makes people live a better life; distinguishing good from bad makes customs pure; publicizing culture and education illustrates the integrity of moral governance; establishing a military force to maintain deterrence; strict rewards and punishments, and unifying laws and disciplines.
This is called the Five Policies.
Some people are not afraid of death, so you cannot intimidate them by committing crimes; if you do not take pleasure in life, you cannot persuade them to do good deeds.
For these people, even if the deeds are made to practice the five kinds of education of monarch and minister, father and son, brother, husband and wife, and friends, and Gao Tao is made an official, politics cannot be carried out.
Therefore, monarchs must first make their finances abundant and calm their emotions. In ancient times, the emperor personally cultivated the fields, and the concubines engaged in sericulture. There were no idlers in the country, and there were no abandoned properties in the countryside. They were self-sufficient in finances and did not use labor casually to benefit personnel.
This is called health maintenance.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
君子之所以动天地，应神明，正万物而成王化者，必乎真定而已。
故在上者审定好丑焉。
善恶要乎功罪，毁誉效于准验。
听言责事，举名察实，无惑诈伤，以荡众心。
故事无不核，物无不切，善无不显，恶无不章，俗无奸怪，民无淫风。
百姓上下睹利害之存乎己也，故肃恭其心，慎修其行，内不回惑，外无异望，则民志平矣。是谓正俗。
君子以情用，小人以刑用。荣辱者，赏罚之精华也。
故礼教荣辱，以加君子，化其情也。桎梏鞭扑，以加小人，化其刑也。
君子不犯辱，况于刑乎。
小人不忌刑，况于辱乎。
若教化之废，推中人而坠于小人之域。教化之行，引中人而纳于君子之涂。是谓章化。
小人之情，缓则骄，骄则恣，恣则怨，怨则叛，危则谋乱，安则思欲，非威强无以惩之。
translation: 
The reason why a gentleman can move heaven and earth, fulfill the gods, rectify all things and achieve the enlightenment of the king is that his actions must be true and consistent with reality.
Therefore, the ruler can use it to judge whether it is good or bad.
Good and evil must be seen through merits and demerits, and reputation and reputation must be tested and correct.
When listening to other people's conversations, you should check the facts and verify the truth according to the name. Don't be fooled by fraud and hypocrisy, which may shake people's hearts.
Therefore, there is no fact that is not true, no thing that is not relevant, no good deed that is not obvious, and no sin that is not exposed. In this way, the customs are simple and the people have no tendency to cause trouble.
The people see the interests at stake for themselves, so they are cautious in their thoughts, cautious in their actions, not confused in their hearts, and have no unreasonable thoughts about the outside world. In this way, the people's hearts are at peace, which is called orthodox customs.
Treat a gentleman with affection, and treat a villain with punishment. Glory and shame are the standards of reward and punishment.
Therefore, etiquette treats gentlemen with honor and disgrace in order to influence their emotions; treats villains with shackles and whips in order to use punishment to make them correct their evil ways.
A gentleman is ashamed of being humiliated, let alone being punished!
A villain is not afraid of punishment, let alone being humiliated!
If moral education is abandoned, the middle-class people will be pushed into the group of villains; if moral education is promoted, the middle-class people will be introduced into the ranks of gentlemen. This is called Minghua.
It is the nature of a villain to be more relaxed about him, and he will become proud. If he is proud, he will act rashly, and if he acts rashly, he will become resentful and rebellious. When he encounters danger, he will plot chaos, and when he is comfortable, he will have random thoughts. Without coercive means, they cannot be punished.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
故在上者，必有武备，以戒不虞，以遏寇虐。
安居则寄之内政，有事则用之军旅。
是谓秉威。
赏罚，政之柄也。
明赏必罚，审信慎令，赏以劝善，罚以惩恶。
人主不妄赏，非徒爱其财也，赏妄行则善不劝矣。
不妄罚，非矜其人也，罚妄行则恶不惩矣。
赏不劝谓之止善，罚不惩谓之纵恶。
在上者能不止下为善，不纵下为恶，则国法立矣。是谓统法。
四患既蠲，五政又立，行之以诚，守之以固，简而不怠，疏而不失，无为为之，使自施之，无事事之，使自交之。
不肃而成，不严而化，垂拱揖让，而海内平矣。
是谓为政之方。
又言：尚主之制非古。
厘降二女，陶唐之典。
归妹元吉，帝乙之训。王姬归齐，宗周之礼。
以阴乘阳违天，以妇陵夫违人。
违天不祥，违人不义。
translation: 
Therefore, a monarch must master the military to prevent accidents and stop tyranny.
When you are in Anju, you should rely on military force in domestic affairs. If something happens, use force.
This is called Bingwei.
Rewards and punishments are the means of government.
Rewards must be clear, punishments must be certain, and what is said has the final say. Don't listen to partial beliefs, don't give orders every day, and be cautious. Reward is to reward good, punishment is to punish evil.
The master does not give rewards casually, not just to cherish property, because giving rewards casually will not have the effect of persuading people to do good.
Don't punish people casually, not for the sake of loving others, because punishing people casually cannot have the effect of punishing bad people.
Reward that cannot encourage people to do good is called stopping good deeds, and punishment that cannot punish bad people is called perpetuating evil.
When a monarch is able to neither prevent those below him from doing good nor indulge those below him from doing evil, then the country's laws and disciplines are established. This is called unification of laws.
The four troubles have been eliminated, and the five policies have been established. We must work hard, persevere, be brief but not negligent, be sparse but lose nothing, govern by doing nothing, let it be, do nothing, and virtue will return to itself.
If it is not solemn, it will happen naturally. If it is not strict, it will become natural. If the monarch hangs his clothes and hands his hands, the world will be peaceful.
This is called a political strategy.
He also said: The system of marrying a princess is not ancient.
Marrying two daughters was Tang Yao's system.
Marrying a sister is a blessing, this is the teaching of Emperor Yi, the monarch of the Shang Dynasty, and it is the etiquette of the Zhou Dynasty that the king and his concubine return together.
Putting yin over yang violates the laws of nature, and putting women above their husbands violates human relations.
Violating the laws of nature is unlucky and violating human relations is unjust.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
又古者天子诸侯有事，必告于庙。
庙有二史，左史记言，右史书事。
事为《春秋》，言为《尚书》。
君举必记，善恶成败，无不存焉。
下及士庶，苟有茂异，咸在载籍。
或欲显而不得，或欲隐而名章。得失一朝，而荣辱千载。
善人劝焉，淫人惧焉。
宜于今者备置史官，掌其典文，纪其行事。
每于岁尽，举之尚书。
以助赏罚，以弘法教。
帝览而善之。
帝好典籍，常以班固《汉书》文繁难省，乃令悦依《左氏传》体以为《汉纪》三十篇，诏尚书给笔札。
辞约事详，论辨多美。
其序之曰：昔在上圣，惟建皇极，经纬天地，观象立法，乃作书契，以通宇宙，扬于王庭，厥用大焉。
先王光演大业，肆于时夏。
亦惟厥后，永世作典。
夫立典有五志焉：一曰达道义，二曰章法式，三曰通古今，四日著功勋，五曰表贤能。
于是天人之际，事物之宜，粲然显著，罔不备矣。
世济其轨，不陨其业。
损益盈虚，与时消息。臧否不同，其揆一也。
translation: 
In ancient times, when the emperor and princes had something to do, they must first report it to the temple.
There are two historians in the court, the left historian records words and the right historian records events.
The events are recorded in the Spring and Autumn Annals and the words are recorded in the Book of Documents.
Every move of the monarch must be recorded, and all good and evil successes and failures must be preserved.
Even if scholars and common people have outstanding facts, they will be recorded in books.
Some people want to be famous but cannot get it; some people want to be reclusive but their fame spreads far and wide. Gains and losses can last for a thousand years.
Good people are rewarded and sinners are feared.
Everything suitable for today is recorded by historians, who keep the laws, literature and art, and record their actions.
At the end of the year, report to the minister.
As the basis for rewards and punishments, to promote education.
The emperor saw it and thought it was very good.
The emperor was fond of reading books. He once thought that Bangu's "Hanshu" was too long and unreadable, so he ordered Xun Yue to write thirty chapters of "Han Ji" in the style of "Zuo Shi Zhuan", and ordered Shangshu to give Yue a written note.
"Han Ji" written by Xun Yue is concise in terms of words, detailed in facts, and exquisite in discussion.
The preface of "Han Chronicles" says: In the past, sages created the rules for emperors to govern the country, and observed the latitude and longitude of heaven and earth. They observed nature to make laws. Then they created words to communicate with the universe and spread among the royal courts. It was of great use.
In order to carry forward the great cause, the former king looked for virtuous people and appointed them, so Chen Yuxia.
I also want to set a standard for future generations.
There are five ambitions in establishing a system of laws and regulations: one is to achieve moral principles, the other is to express rules and regulations, the third is to connect the past and the present, the fourth is to express meritorious deeds, and the fifth is to express talents.
In this way, the relationship between heaven and man and the balance of things are clearly included.
If we keep this example from generation to generation, our great cause will not fall.
Increase or decrease, and maintain a balance between surplus and deficiency, must wax and wane with the times, good and bad are different, and there can only be one measure of good or bad.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
汉四百有六载，拨乱反正，统武兴文，永惟祖宗之洪业，思光启乎万嗣。
圣上穆然，惟文之恤，瞻前顾后，是绍是继，阐崇大猷，命立国典。
于是缀叙旧书，以述《汉纪》。
中兴以前，明主贤臣得失之轨，亦足以观矣。
又著《崇德》、《正论》及诸论数十篇。
年六十二，建安十四年卒。
韩韶字仲黄，颍川舞阳人也。
少仕郡，辟司徒府。
时，太山贼公孙举伪号历年，守、令不能破散，多为坐法。
尚书选三府掾能理剧者，乃以韶为赢长。
贼闻其贤，相戒不入赢境。
余县多被寇盗，废耕桑，其流入县界求索衣粮者甚众。
韶愍其饑困，乃开仓赈之，所禀赡万馀户。
主者争谓不可。
韶曰 长活沟壑之人，而以此伏罪，含笑入地矣 太守素知韶名德，竟无所坐。
translation: 
During the four hundred and six years of the Han Dynasty, the chaos was brought to an end, and Wuxing was promoted to civil society. He always thought of the great deeds of his ancestors and how they would be carried forward to all generations.
The emperor pondered in silence, loved literary affairs, looked forward and backward, carried forward the past and opened up the future, explained the lofty and grand plans, and ordered the establishment of national ceremonies.
So he collected and sorted out old books and wrote "Han Ji".
Before the ZTE, the gains and losses of the Ming Dynasty’s wise ministers could be clearly seen.
He also wrote "Chongde", "Zhenglun" and dozens of other treatises.
He died in the 62nd year of Jian'an in the 14th year of Jian'an.
◆The biography of Han Shao, whose courtesy name is Zhonghuang, was born in Wuyang County, Yingchuan County.
When he was young, he served as an official in the county and was recruited into the Situ Mansion.
At this time, the Taishan bandit Gongsun Ju had been falsely claiming to have a false name for several years. He was unable to defeat or disperse him and often broke the law.
The Shangshu Province selected people from the three mansions who could manage troubles to solve this problem. So Han Shao was appointed as the county magistrate.
When the Taishan bandits heard that Han Shao was a good official, they restrained each other from entering Ying County.
But other counties were more invaded by them, making it impossible for men to plow the fields and women to raise sericulture. Therefore, many people fled to Ying County to beg.
Han Shao felt sorry for them because they were hungry, so he opened a warehouse to help them. More than 10,000 families received food.
The county supervisors all argued that it couldn’t be done.
Han Shao said: If you save these people who will die in the ravine and are punished for it, you will be happy even if you die. The prefect knew Han Shao's character on weekdays and finally did not deal with him.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
以病卒官。
同郡李膺、陈寔、杜密、荀淑等为立碑颂焉。
子融，字无长。
少能辩理而不为章句学。声名甚盛，五府并辟。
献帝初，至太仆。
年七十卒。
同郡陈寔，年不及皓，皓引与为友。
皓为郡功曹，会辟司徒府，临辞，太守问 谁可代卿者 皓曰 明府欲必得其人，西门亭长陈寔可 寔闻之，曰 钟君似不察人，不知何独识我 皓顷之自劾去。
前后九辟公府，征为廷尉正、博士、林虑长，皆不就。
时，皓及荀淑并为士大夫所归慕。
translation: 
Died in office due to illness.
Li Ying, Chen Chen, Du Mi and Xun Shu from the same county erected monuments to praise him.
His son Han Rong has a long character.
When he was young, he was able to debate famous theories without writing poems. He became so famous that he was recruited by all the five prefectures.
In the early years of Emperor Xian's reign, he became a servant.
Died at the age of seventy.
◆Zhong Hao's biography, Zhong Hao's courtesy name was Ji Ming, and he was a native of Changshe County, Yingchuan County.
It is a common surname in the county and has been proficient in law for generations. When he was young, Zhong Hao was praised for his honesty and honesty, and was continuously recruited by the government. Because his second brother did not serve as an official, he lived in seclusion in the mountains and taught poetry and rhythm to more than a thousand students. Chen Chen from the same county was younger than Zhong Hao, so Zhong Hao became friends with him. Zhong Hao was appointed as the county's meritorious officer. When he was summoned to the Situ Mansion, before he left, the prefect asked him: Who can take your place? Zhong Hao said: If the prefect must find the right person, Chen Chen, the chief of the Ximen Pavilion, can do it. Chen Chen heard about it and said: "Zhong Jun doesn't seem to be carefully inspecting people. I don't know why he only looks at me?" Not long after, Zhong Hao resigned.
He was recruited by the government nine times, and he was promoted to Tingweizheng, doctor, and Lin Luchang, but he failed.
At that time, both Zhong Hao and Xun Shu were admired by the scholar-bureaucrats.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
李膺常叹曰 荀君清识难尚，钟君至德可师
皓兄子瑾母，膺之姑也。
瑾好学慕古，有退让风，与膺同年，俱有声名。
膺祖太尉脩，常言 瑾似我家性，邦有道不废，邦无道免于刑戮 复以膺妹妻之。
瑾辟州府。未尝屈志。
膺谓之曰 孟子以为人无是非之心，非人也。
弟何期不与孟轲同邪 瑾常以膺言白皓。
皓曰 昔国武子好昭人过，以致怨本。
卒保身全家，尔道为贵 其体训所安，多此类也。
年六十九，终于家。
诸儒颂之曰 林虑懿德，非礼不处。
悦此诗书，弦琴乐古。
五就州招，九应台辅。
逡巡王命，卒岁容与 皓孙繇，建安中为司隶校尉。
translation: 
Li Ying once sighed and said: "It is difficult to compare Xunjun's clear knowledge with him, but Zhongjun's virtue can be his teacher's example."
The mother of Zhong Hao's nephew Zhong Jin is Li Ying's aunt.
Zhong Jin was eager to learn and admire ancient Taoism, and he was modest and conciliatory. He was the same age as Li Ying and both were famous.
Li Ying's grandfather, Taiwei Li Xiu, once said: Zhong Jin is like my family's temperament. If the country is righteous, he can make use of his talents, but if the country is ungrateful, he can avoid punishment. He also married Li Ying's sister to him.
Zhong Jin summoned the state capital and never gave in to his will.
Li Ying said to him: Mencius believed that if a person has no sense of right and wrong, he cannot be considered a human being.
Why don't you agree with what Meng Ke said? Zhong Jin once told Zhong Hao what Li Ying said.
Zhong Hao said: In the past, Guo Wuzi, a senior official in the state of Qi, liked to expose other people's sins, so as to attract resentment.
In the end, it is your humility that is more valuable than your own to protect your family. He realizes that the teachings of the ancients are not dogmatic, but seek to implement them appropriately.
This is often the case. He died at home at the age of sixty-nine.
Confucian scholars praised him: "Lin considers virtue and does not do anything inappropriate."
He loves poetry and books, and plays ancient music.
On the fifth day, he went to the state platform, and on the ninth day he responded to the auxiliary position. He hesitated about the king's order, but he accepted it all the year round.
Zhong Hao's grandson Zhong Yao was appointed as Sili Xiaowei in Jian'an Middle School.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
陈寔字仲弓，颍川许人也。
出于单微。
自为儿童，虽在戏弄，为等类所归。
少作县吏，常给事厮役，后为都亭佐。
而有志好学，坐立诵读。
县令邓邵试与语，奇之，听受业太学。
后令复召为吏，乃避隐阳城山中。
时有杀人者，同县杨吏以疑寔，县遂逮系，考掠无实，而后得出。
乃为督邮，乃密托许令，礼召杨吏。
远近闻者，咸叹服之。
家贫，复为郡西门亭长，寻转功曹。
时中常侍侯览托太守高伦用吏，伦教署为文学掾。
寔知非其人，怀檄请见。言曰 此人不宜用，而侯常侍不可违。
寔乞从外署，不足以尘明德 伦从之。
于是乡论怪其非举，寔终无所言。
伦后被征为尚书，郡中士大夫送至轮氏传舍。
伦谓众人言曰 吾前为侯常侍用吏，陈君密持教还，而于外白署。
translation: 
◆Chen Shizhuan, also named Zhonggong, was a native of Xu County, Yingchuan County.
Of humble origin.
As a child, even though he was playing, he was still supported by the children.
When he was young, he was a county official. He worked for some slaves in the county and later served as Du Tingzuo.
He is eager to learn and can sit up and read without stopping.
The county magistrate Deng Shao tried to talk to him and thought that he was not an ordinary petty official, so he asked him to study at Taixue.
Later, the county magistrate called him as an official again, so he escaped and lived in seclusion in Yangcheng Mountain.
At this time, someone killed someone. Yang Li from the same county suspected that it was Chen Chen, and the county arrested him. The torture and interrogation had no basis in fact, so he was released.
Later, Chen Shi became the postal supervisor and secretly asked Xu Ling to summon Yang officials with courtesy.
When people near and far heard about it, they marveled and admired him.
Chen Chen's family was poor, so he became the head of the west gate pavilion of the county. Soon, he was promoted to a meritorious official.
At this time, Zhongchang Shihou Lan asked Gao Lun, the prefect, to appoint officials, and Gao Lun ordered him to act as an agent for literature.
Chen Chen knew that this person was not suitable, so he gave Gao Lun's teachings to Xi. When Huai Xi met Gao Lun, he said: "This person is not suitable for use, but the orders of Changshi Hou cannot be disobeyed."
I would like to ask an external official, as this will not harm Mingde. Gao Lun listened to him.
So public opinion blamed Chen Chen for being unpopular, but Chen Chen never said anything.
Gao Lun was later recruited as Shangshu, and was sent to Lun's Hotel by the county sergeant-officials.
Gao Lun said to everyone: "I used to be a servant of Hou Chang, and Chen Jun secretly returned with my teachings. I was working in vain in other places."


Chunk 18: 
original: 
比闻议者以此少之，此咎由故人畏惮强御，陈君可谓善则称君，过则称己者也 寔固自引愆，闻者方叹息，由是天下服其德。
司空黄琼辟选理剧，补闻喜长，旬月，以期丧去官。
复再迁除太丘长。
修德清静，百姓以安。
邻县人户归附者，寔辄训导譬解，发遣各令还本司官行部。吏虑有讼者，白欲禁之。
寔曰 讼以求直，禁之理将何申。
其勿所拘 司官闻而叹息曰 陈君所言若是，岂有怨于人乎 亦意无讼者。
以沛相赋敛违法，乃解印绶去，吏人追思之。
及后逮捕党人，事亦连寔。
馀人多逃避求免，寔曰 吾不就狱，众无所恃 乃请囚焉。
遇赦得出。
灵帝初，大将军窦武辟以为掾属。
translation: 
Recently I heard that someone blamed Chen Chen for this. This was because I was afraid of rape. Chen Jun could be said to blame the good things on you, and take the blame for any mistakes. However, Chen Chen still insisted on taking the blame. People who heard about it sighed at Chen Chen's conduct. From then on, the whole world admired his virtue.
Sikong Huang Qiong recruited talents who could cure Fanju and used Chen Chen to supplement Wen Xichang. Within a month, Chen Chen resigned from office because he had been in mourning for a year.
Then he was promoted to Chief of Taiqiu.
Pay attention to morality, be quiet and do nothing, and the people can live and work in peace and contentment.
When people from neighboring counties came to join Taiqiu, Chen Shi gave them instructions and explanations and sent them back. The officials were worried that someone would complain and told Chen Shi that they wanted to imprison these people.
Chen Shi said: The purpose of filing a complaint is to seek justice. If they are detained, how can they appeal for their reasons?
Don't detain them. When the leader heard about it, he sighed: If Chen Jun said this, does anyone still blame him? After all, no one filed a lawsuit against him.
Because Prime Minister Pei violated the law in collecting taxes, he returned home with his seal, and the officials missed him very much.
Later, party members were arrested and Chen Chen was implicated.
Many people are running away and seeking immunity. Chen Chen said: If I don't go to jail, everyone will be helpless. So he asked himself to be imprisoned.
He was pardoned by the imperial court and released from prison.
At the beginning of Emperor Ling's reign, General Dou Wu was recruited as a vassal.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
时中常侍张让权倾天下。让父死，归葬颍川，虽一郡毕至，而名士无往者，让甚耻之，寔乃独吊焉。
及后复诛党人，让感寔，故多所全宥。
寔在乡闾，平心率物。
其有争讼，辄求判正，晓譬曲直，退无怨者。
至乃叹曰 宁为刑罚所加，不为陈君所短 时、岁荒民俭，有盗夜入其室，止于梁上。
寔阴见，乃起自整拂，呼命子孙，正色训之曰 夫人不可不自勉。不善之人未必本恶，习以性成，遂至于此。
梁上君子者是矣 盗大惊，自投于地，稽颡归罪。寔徐譬之曰 视君状貌，不似恶人，宜深克己反善。
然此当由贫困 令遗绢二匹。
自是一县无复盗窃。
translation: 
At that time, the official Zhang Rang was very powerful. When Zhang Rang's father died, he was sent back to Yingchuan for burial. Although everyone in the county went, none of the famous scholar-bureaucrats went. Zhang Rang felt that he had no face and was very ashamed, but Chen Chen went to mourn alone.
Later, the party members were killed again. Zhang Rang was grateful to Chen Chen for his condolences. Many people were forgiven and their wealth and lives were saved.
In the countryside, Chen Chen set an example by being fair.
If there is a dispute, he will seek correct judgment and the right and wrong will be explained clearly. After returning home, there will be no complaints.
Some even sighed and said: I would rather be punished than be told wrong by Chen Chen. At this time, there was a famine and the people were in poverty. A thief entered his room and stopped on the beam.
Chen Shi secretly saw it, so he got up, arranged the bedding, and cleaned the house. Then he called his descendants together and warned him sternly: "People must encourage themselves. Bad people are not necessarily inherently bad. Habits are caused by nature, leading to this point." Liang Shangjun is this kind of person!
The thief was shocked. He knelt on the ground and knelt down to apologize. Chen Chen slowly told him: "You don't look like a bad person. You should reflect deeply and become a good person."
However, this time it was probably because of poverty that he did this. He ordered his family to send him two pieces of silk.
Since then, there have been no burglaries in the county.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
太尉杨赐、司徒陈耽，每拜公卿，群僚毕贺，赐等常叹寔大位未登，愧于先之。及党禁始解，大将军何进、司徒袁隗遣人敦寔，欲特表以不次之位。
寔乃谢使者曰 寔久绝人事，饰巾待终而已 时，三公每缺，议者归之，累见征命，遂不起，闭门悬车，栖迟养老。
中平四年，年八十四，卒于家。
何进遣使吊祭，海内赴者三万馀人，制衰麻者以百数。
共刊石立碑，谥为文范先生。
有六子，纪、谌最贤。
纪字元方，亦以至德称。
兄弟孝养，闺门雍和，后进之士皆推慕其风。
及遭党锢，发愤著书数万言，号曰《陈子》。
党禁解，四府并命，无所屈就。
遭父忧，每哀至，辄欧血绝气，虽衰服已除，而积毁消瘠，殆将灭性。
豫州刺史嘉其至行，表上尚书，图象百城，以厉风俗。
translation: 
Every time Taiwei Yang Ci and Situ Chen Dan were appointed ministers, hundreds of officials came to congratulate them. Yang Ci and others often lamented that Chen Chen had not ascended to the big position, and they felt ashamed. When the party ban was lifted, Generals He Jin and Situ Yuan Wei sent people to persuade Chen Chen, hoping to make an exception and give Chen Chen a big position.
Chen Chen declined the envoy and said: I have not thought about the things in the world for a long time. I am just dressing up my clothes and waiting for death. At this time, every time the three princes were vacant, everyone thought of Chen Chen. He was called up many times and refused to go. He closed the door and hung up the car to rest and retire.
He died at home in the fourth year of Zhongping at the age of eighty-four.
He Jin sent envoys to offer condolences, and more than 30,000 people from all over the country came to express their condolences, hundreds of them wearing mourning clothes.
They jointly carved stones and erected monuments, and their posthumous title was Mr. Wen Fan.
He has six sons, among whom Chen Ji and Chen Chen are the best.
Chen Ji's character Yuan Fang was also praised by others for his virtuous conduct.
His brothers are filial, his women are harmonious, and the younger generations in the village are envious of his good family tradition.
Being imprisoned by the party, he worked hard to write a book of tens of thousands of words called "Chen Zi".
The ban on the party was lifted, and the four governments competed for appointments, but he was not accepted.
When his father passed away, he was extremely grieved. He often vomited blood and died. Although the period of mourning was over, he was still grieving so much that his body became emaciated, leaving only a few bones, and he became like a dead person.
The governor of Yuzhou believed that Chen Ji's excellence was extremely valuable, so he commissioned it as a minister, and all cities in Yuzhou painted images of Chen Ji and other figures to encourage customs.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
董卓入洛阳，乃使就家拜五官中郎将，不得已，到京师，迁侍中。
出为平原相，往谒卓，时欲徙都长安，乃谓纪曰 三辅平敞，四面险固，土地肥美，号为陆海。
今关东起兵，恐洛阳不可久居。
长安犹有宫室，今欲西迁何如 纪曰 天下有道，守在四夷。
宜修德政，以怀不附。
迁移至尊，诚计之末者。
愚以公宜事委公卿，专精外任。
其有违命，则威之以武。
今关东兵起，民不堪命。
若谦远朝政，率师讨伐，则涂炭之民，庶几可全。
若欲徙万乘以自安，将有累卵之危，峥嵘之险也 卓意甚忤，而敬纪名行，无所复言。
时议欲以为司徒，纪见祸乱方作，不复辨严，即时之郡。
玺书追拜太仆，又征为尚书令。
建安初，袁绍为太尉，让于纪。纪不受，拜大鸿胪。
translation: 
Dong Zhuo entered Luoyang, sent an envoy to his home, and awarded him the title of Lieutenant General with five senses. As a last resort, he went to the capital and was promoted to the rank of Attendant.
He was transferred to Pingyuan Prime Minister to visit Dong Zhuo. At this time, Dong Zhuo wanted to move the capital to Chang'an and told Chen Ji: "The third auxiliary is flat and open, the situation on all sides is dangerous and strong, and the land is fertile. It is called land and sea."
Now that the Kwantung soldiers are in rebellion, I'm afraid I won't be able to stay in Luoyang for long.
The palaces in Chang'an are ready-made. Now I want to move west to Chang'an. How about it? Chen Ji said: If there is a way in the world, all barbarians must be brought under their control.
This requires wise politics to appease them.
Moving the emperor was the last idea.
I think you should leave your affairs to the ministers and concentrate on dealing with external problems.
If anyone disobeys orders, use force to deal with them.
Now that there is an army in Guandong, the people cannot survive.
If you humbly submit to the government and lead an army to attack the rebels in Guandong, then the common people who are in dire straits can almost be saved.
If you want to move to the emperor for self-satisfaction, it is like laying eggs. The higher you go, the greater the risk of destruction! Dong Zhuo was very unhappy after hearing this, and said nothing more because he admired Chen Ji's reputation and virtue.
At that time, someone in the court wanted to appoint Chen Ji as Situ. Chen Ji saw that trouble was about to occur, so he immediately returned to the county without packing.
The imperial edict posthumously awarded him the title of Imperial Servant, and he was also conscripted into the position of Shangshu Ling.
At the beginning of Jian'an, Yuan Shao was the Taiwei, and he gave it to Chen Ji. Chen Ji refused and was appointed as Dahonglu.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
年七十一，卒于官。
子群，为魏司空。
天下以为公惭卿，卿惭长。
弟谌，字季方。与纪齐德同行，父子并著高名，时号三君。
每宰府辟召，常同时旌命，羔雁成群，当世者靡不荣之。
谌早终。论曰：汉自中世以下，阉竖擅恣，故俗遂以遁身矫洁放言为高。士有不谈此者，则芸夫牧竖已叫呼之矣。
故时政弥惛，而其风愈往。
唯陈先生进退之节，必可度也。
据于德故物不犯，安于仁故不离群，行成乎身而道训天下，故凶邪不能以权夺，王公不能以贵骄，所以声教废于上，而风俗清乎下也。
translation: 
He died in his post at the age of seventy-one.
His son Chen Qun was Wei Sikong.
The world thinks that the public should be ashamed of his ministers, and the minister should be ashamed of his elders.
The younger brother Chen Chen, also known as Jifang, was as famous as Chen Ji for his moral conduct and was called Sanjun at that time.
Every time they were called up by the Zaifu, they were often ordered at the same time, carrying lambs and geese to meet the emperor in droves. At that time, everyone was proud of them.
Historians commented: Since the middle ages of the Han Dynasty, eunuchs have had exclusive power, so the custom is to remain invisible, pretend to be noble, and speak freely without restraint. If ordinary scholars do not talk about these, they will be ridiculed by ordinary people.
Therefore, current affairs are darker and this trend is even more powerful.
Only Mr. Chen's progress and retreat can be clearly observed.
He has great virtue in his heart, so external things cannot invade him; he lives in benevolence, so he does not separate from others; virtue is cultivated in himself, and his teachings are passed on to the world, so evil and cunning people cannot use their power to rob him, and princes and nobles cannot use their wealth to make him proud. Therefore, although Shengjiao has been abandoned in the imperial court, the custom of integrity is still preserved among the people.


