Chunk 0: 
original: 
孔子曰： 导之以政，齐之以刑，民免而无耻；导之以德，齐之以礼，有耻且格。
老氏称： 上德不德，是以有德；下德不失德，是以无德。
法令滋章，盗贼多有。
信哉是言也！
法令者，治之具，而非制治清浊之原也。
昔天下之罔尝密矣，然奸轨愈起，其极也，上下相遁，至于不振。
当是之时，吏治若救火扬沸，非武健严酷，恶能胜其任而愉快乎？
言道德者，溺于职矣。
故曰： 听讼吾犹人也，必也使无讼乎！
下士闻道大笑之。
非虚言也。
汉兴，破觚而为圜，斫雕而为朴，号为罔漏吞舟之鱼。而吏治蒸蒸，不至于奸，黎民艾安。
由是观之，在彼不在此。
translation: 
Confucius said: If you use political decrees to induce them and punishments to rectify them, the people will only be temporarily exempted from their sins, but they will have no sense of shame; if you use morality to induce them and use rituals to rectify them, the people will not only have a sense of shame, but also have people's hearts subdued.
Laozi said: Superior virtue is in line with nature and is truly virtuous; inferior virtue is created subjectively and is actually unvirtuous.
The multiplicity of laws and regulations breeds cunning and deceit, so the number of thieves increases.
This is really a wise and clear statement!
Laws and regulations are tools of governance, not the source of good or bad governance.
In the past, when the law was tight in the world, thieves became more and more numerous and developed to the extreme, causing the monarchs, ministers and people to avoid each other, resulting in the world being ruined and unable to be saved.
At this time, local governance was in crisis. If tough and harsh measures were not used, how could the governance be maintained?
Those who advocate morality adopt a relaxed approach.
Therefore, Confucius said: When trying lawsuits, I am no different from others. I must completely eliminate the litigation events!
Lao Tzu also said: It is in vain to ridicule a mediocre person who does not know the way.
These are not lies.
The rise of the Han Dynasty broke the square into a circle, returned to simplicity and truth, and the legal framework was extremely broad and sparse. However, the situation of officialdom is flourishing, banditry and chaos are not prevalent, and the people live and work in peace and contentment.
From this point of view, the key to official governance is not the harshness of the law.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
高后时，酷吏独有侯封，刻轹宗室，侵辱功臣。
吕氏已败，遂夷侯封之家。
孝景时，晁错以刻深颇用术辅其资，而七国之乱发怒于错，错卒被戮。
其后有郅都、甯成之伦。
郅都，河东大阳人也。
以郎事文帝。
景帝时为中郎将，敢直谏，面折大臣于朝。
尝从入上林，贾姬在厕，野彘入厕。上目都，都不行。
上欲自持兵救贾姬，都伏上前曰： 亡一姬复一姬进，天下所少宁姬等邪？
陛下纵自轻，奈宗庙太后何？
上还，彘亦不伤贾姬。
太后闻之，赐都金百斤，上亦赐金百斤，由此重都。
济南瞷氏宗人三百余家，豪猾，二千石莫能制，于是景帝拜都为济南守。
translation: 
When he was a high-ranking empress, the only cruel official was Hou Feng, who trampled on the clan and insulted the meritorious officials.
After the Lu family was defeated, Hou Feng's family was eradicated.
During the reign of Emperor Jing, Chao Cuo used sharp tactics to support his talents, and the Rebellion of the Seven Kingdoms was also caused by Chao Cuo, and finally Chao Cuo was killed.
Later, Zhidu and Ningcheng appeared again.
Zhidu was born in Dayang County, Hedong County.
Serve Emperor Wen as a Langguan.
Emperor Jing was the Zhonglang General at that time, and he dared to speak out to the emperor and rebuke the ministers' faults in person at the court.
Zhidu once accompanied the emperor to Shanglin Garden. Jia Ji was in the toilet, and the wild boar also entered the toilet. The emperor looked at Zhidu, but Zhidu was unmoved.
The emperor wanted to personally take the sword to rescue Maiji. Zhidu knelt down in front of the emperor and said: "We have lost a Jiajie and a new Maiji has come in. Is it possible that the world lacks people like Maiji?"
Even if your Majesty doesn't care about yourself, how can you be worthy of the country and the Queen Mother?
After hearing Zhidu's words, the emperor retreated, and the wild boar did not harm Maiji.
When the Queen Mother heard about this, she rewarded Zhidu with one hundred catties of gold. The emperor also rewarded Zhidu with one hundred catties of gold. From then on, Zhidu was highly valued.
There were more than 300 families in Jinan's Kun clan. They were powerful and committed all kinds of evil. The prefect of the county could not subdue them, so Emperor Jing appointed Zhidu as the prefect of Jinan.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
至则诛瞷氏首恶，余皆股栗。
居岁余，郡中不拾遗，旁十余郡守畏都如大府。
都为人，勇有气，公廉，不发私书，问遗无所受，请寄无所听。
常称曰： 已背亲而出身，固当奉职死节官下，终不顾妻子矣。
都迁为中尉，丞相条侯至贵居也，而都揖丞相。
是时，民朴，畏罪自重，而都独先严酷，致行法不避贵戚，列侯宗室见都侧目而视，号曰 苍鹰 。
临江王征诣中尉府对簿，临江王欲得刀笔为书谢上，而都禁吏弗与。
魏其侯使人间予临江王。
临江王既得，为书谢上，因自杀。
窦太后闻之，怒，以危法中都，都免归家。
景帝乃使使即拜都为雁门太守，便道之官，得以便宜从事。
匈奴素闻郅都节，举边为引兵去，竟都死不近雁门。
匈奴至为偶人象都，令骑驰射，莫能中，其见惮如此。
匈奴患之。乃中都以汉法。景帝曰： 都忠臣。
欲释之。
窦太后曰： 临江王独非忠臣乎？
于是斩都也。
translation: 
After Zhidu arrived, he immediately killed the chief culprit of the Shu clan, and the remaining members of other clans were so frightened that their thighs trembled.
Zhidu served as the prefect for more than a year, but Jinan County did not pick up the troops. The prefects of more than ten nearby counties feared Zhidu as they feared the superior palace.
Zhidu is brave and powerful, fair and honest, he does not open personal letters, and does not accept gifts or private entrustments from relatives and friends.
He often declares: I left my family behind and left my hometown to serve as an official. Of course I should be loyal to my duties and be loyal to the last bit of my life. In the end, I couldn't care about my wife and children.
Zhidu transferred the lieutenant, and Prime Minister Tiaohou was extremely noble and arrogant, but Zhidu bowed to him and refused to bow to him.
At this time, the folk customs were simple, and the officials and the people were afraid of offending the dignitaries and protected themselves wisely. Only Zhidu dared to take the lead in enforcing the law extremely harshly, without avoiding the emperor's relatives. When the princes and clans saw Zhi, they did not dare to look at him directly, and called him "Goshawk".
King Linjiang was summoned to the Lieutenant's Mansion to investigate the case. He wanted to get the knife, pen and ink to write a letter to apologize to the emperor, but Zhidu prohibited the jailer from giving it to him.
Wei Qihou sent someone to secretly deliver the sword and pen to King Linjiang.
After King Linjiang got it, he wrote a letter to apologize to the emperor and then committed suicide.
When Empress Dowager Dou heard about this, she was furious and slandered Zhidu with severe punishments. Zhidu was dismissed from his official position and returned home.
However, Emperor Jing sent someone to Zhidu's home to appoint him as the governor of Yanmen. He did not have to go to the court to say goodbye, but took a shortcut to his post. He could take advantage of the situation and handle government affairs with full authority.
The Huns were aware of Zhidu's integrity and all evacuated their border troops. After Zhidu's death, they did not dare to take a step near Yanmen.
The Huns carved a puppet figure that looked exactly like Zhidu, and ordered the cavalry to gallop and shoot, but none of them could hit. They were so frightened by Zhidu.
The Huns were worried about this situation and used the laws of the Han Dynasty to frame Zhidu. Emperor Jing said: "Zhi are all loyal ministers."
Want to free him.
Queen Mother Dou said: Isn't King Linjiang a loyal minister?
So Zhidu was beheaded.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
甯成，南阳穰人也。
以郎谒者事景帝。
好气，为小吏，必陵其长吏；为人上，操下急如束湿。
猾贼任威。
稍迁至济南都尉，而郅都为守。
始前数都尉步入府，因吏谒守如县令，其畏都如此。
及成往，直凌都出其上。
都素闻其声，善遇，与结欢。
久之，都死，后长安左右宗室多犯法，上召成为中尉。
其治效郅都，其廉弗如，然宗室豪杰人皆惴恐。
武帝即位，徙为内史。
外戚多毁成之短，抵罪髡钳。
是时，九卿死即死，少被刑，而成刑极，自以为不复收，及解脱，诈刻传出关归家。
translation: 
Ningcheng was born in Zhang County, Nanyang County.
Serve Emperor Jing as a Langguan and a visitor.
He likes to be aggressive, and when he is a junior official, he must be superior to his superiors; when he is someone else's boss, he treats his subordinates as harshly and eagerly as tying wet sticks.
Cunning and cruel, domineering and domineering.
Gradually he was promoted to the rank of captain of Jinan, and he was appointed as the prefect of Jinan by Zhidu.
In the past, several captains walked into the county government and paid homage to the prefect, just like the county magistrate paying homage to the prefect. They were so afraid of Zhi.
When Ning Cheng went to the county government, he broke in directly and insulted Zhidu. His arrogance was even higher than that of Zhidu.
Zhidu Sujian Ningcheng became famous, treated him well, and became a good friend with him.
After a long time, Zhidu died. After that, many of the clan nobles in and around Chang'an violated the law, and the emperor called Ning Cheng to serve as lieutenant.
Ning Cheng followed the example of Zhi Du in governing the area, but was not as honest as him. However, everyone in the clan, nobles and powerful people were frightened and trembled.
Emperor Wu ascended the throne and Tiao Ning became the internal historian.
Most of the relatives slandered Ning Cheng's shortcomings to Emperor Wu, and Ning Cheng was sentenced to tweezers, his hair was shaved, and an iron ring was placed around his neck.
At that time, those who committed crimes among the nine ministers were executed, and no other punishment was given. However, Ning Cheng was sentenced to severe punishment. Bai thought that he would not be used again, so he took off the iron ring around his neck, forged documents, sneaked out of Hangu Pass, and fled home.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
称曰： 仕不至二千石，贾不至千万，安可比人乎！
乃贳貣陂田千余顷，假贫民，役使数千家。
数年，会赦，致产数千万，为任侠，持吏长短，出从数十骑。
其使民，威重于郡守。
周阳由，其父赵兼以淮南王舅侯周阳，故因氏焉。
由以宗家任为郎，事文帝。
景帝时，由为郡守。
武帝即位，吏治尚修谨，然由居二千石中最为暴酷骄恣。
所爱者，挠法活之；所憎者，曲法灭之。
所居郡，必夷其豪。
为守，视都尉如令；为都尉，陵太守，夺之治。
translation: 
He threatened: If you can't earn two thousand dan as an official, and you can't earn tens of millions in business, how can you stand in the world!
So he took out a loan to buy more than a thousand hectares of paddy fields, and then leased them to the poor, enslaving thousands of families.
A few years later, when the amnesty was granted, Ning Cheng had accumulated tens of millions of property and became a chivalrous man who fought against injustice and fought against injustice. He held the officials' shortcomings and secrets in his hands and threatened them at any time. He was followed by dozens of knights guarding him when he went out.
He served the people with greater authority than the county governor.
Zhou Yangyou, whose father Tong Jian was named Zhou Yanghou as the uncle of the King of Huainan, changed his surname to Zhou Yang.
Zhou Yangyou was appointed Langguan for family reasons and served Emperor Wen.
During the reign of Emperor Jing, Zhou Yang was appointed as the county governor.
After Emperor Wu came to the throne, officials advocated strict governance, but Zhou Yangyou was the most strict and arrogant among all the county guards.
He would bend the law and let people live if they were friendly to him, even if they deserved death; and he would bend the law and put people to death even if they did not commit a capital crime for those he hated.
The county where he lives as an official must eradicate all the tyrants.
When he was appointed as the prefect, he regarded the captain as the county magistrate; once he became the captain, he placed himself above the prefect and deprived him of his legitimate power.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
汲黯为忮，司马安之文恶，俱在二千石列，同车未尝敢均茵冯。
后由为河东都尉，与其守胜屠公争权，相告言，胜屠公当抵罪，义不受刑，自杀，而由弃市。
自甯成、周阳由之后，事益多，民巧法，大抵吏治类多成、由等矣。
赵禹，斄人也。
以佐史补中都官，用廉为令史，事太尉周亚夫。
亚夫为丞相，禹为丞相史，府中皆称其廉平。
然亚夫弗任，曰： 极知禹无害，然文深，不可以居大府。
武帝时，禹以刀笔吏积劳，迁为御史。
上以为能，至中大夫。
与张汤论定律令，作见知，吏传相监司以法，尽自此始。
禹为人廉裾，为吏以来，舍无食客。
公卿相造请，禹终不行报谢，务在绝知友宾客之请，孤立行一意而已。
见法辄取，亦不复案求官属阴罪。
尝中废，已为廷尉。
始条侯以禹贼深，及禹为少府九卿，酷急。
至晚节，事益多。吏务为严峻，而禹治加缓，名为平。
王温舒等后起，治峻禹。
禹以老，徙为燕相，数岁，悖乱有罪，免归。
translation: 
Ji An was stubborn and stubborn in vain, while Sima An used his articles to hurt people. They were also among the officials at the county level, but when they were in the same car with Zhou Yangyou, they all took the initiative to avoid it and hid aside to sit.
Later, Zhou Yangyou was appointed as the captain of Hedong, and he and the prefect of the county, Shengtu Gong, fought for power and appealed to each other. Shengtu Gong was found guilty, but he committed suicide without being severely punished, while Zhou Yangyou was executed and abandoned the market.
Since Ning Cheng and Zhou Yangyou, the world has become more and more unstable. The people use clever methods to resist the law, and the officials are mostly similar to Ning Cheng and Zhou Yangyou.
Zhao Yu was a native of Yaxian County.
As an assistant historian, he was appointed as the official of Zhongdu. Because of his integrity, he was appointed as the commander of the order and served the Taiwei Zhou Yafu.
Zhou Yafu became the prime minister, and then Yu became the prime minister. Everyone in the government praised him for being honest and fair.
However, Zhou Yafu did not reuse him and said: I know that Yu's character and talent are extraordinary, but he is too harsh in upholding the law and cannot be entrusted with important tasks.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, Tào Yu had accumulated achievements as a swordsman and pen official and was transferred to the imperial censor.
The emperor thought he was talented and promoted him to the rank of doctor.
He and Zhang Tang negotiated legal regulations together, and the laws he made were recognized, and officials, prime ministers, and supervisors began to teach the law.
Zhao Yu was an honest and upright person. Since he entered the officialdom, he has not had a single guest in his house.
The ministers invited him to be a guest, but Yu always declined, saying that he would cut off all invitations from friends and guests and only wanted to be alone.
He always abides by the law and does not overturn the case or try to hide his crimes from the government.
During this period, he was dismissed from office and was later appointed as a Tingwei.
At first Tiaohou Zhou Yafu thought that Yu was cruel and harsh, but when he became the ninth minister of the Shaofu, his cruel and violent nature became more obvious.
In his later years, there were more and more chaos in the world, and officials were strict in governing the people. However, Zhao Yu was at peace at this time, and his reputation also improved.
Wang Wenshu and others were ruthless officials who came from behind, and their governance of the people was even harsher than that of Yu.
Because Zhao Yu was old, he was transferred to the position of Prime Minister of Yan. A few years later, he was dismissed from office and returned to his hometown because he was confused and guilty while serving as an official.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
后十余年，以寿卒于家。义纵，河东人也。
少年时尝与张次公俱攻剽，为群盗。
纵有姊，以医幸王太后。
太后问： 有子、兄弟为官者乎？
姊曰： 有弟无行，不可。
太后乃告上，上拜义姁弟纵为中郎，补上党郡中令。
治敢往，少温籍，县无逋事，举第一。
迁为长陵及长安令，直法行治，不避贵戚。
以捕按太后外孙脩成子中，上以为能，迁为河内都尉。
至则族灭其豪穰氏之属，河内道不拾遗。
而张次公亦为郎，以勇悍从军，敢深入，有功，封为岸头侯。
甯成家居，上欲以为郡守，御史大夫弘曰： 臣居山东为小吏时，甯成为济南都尉，其治如狼牧羊，成不可令治民。
上乃拜成为关都尉。
translation: 
More than ten years later, he died in his hometown. Yi Zong is from Hedong.
When he was young, he and Zhang Cigong both committed robberies and joined the bandit gang.
Yi Zong had an older sister who was admired by the Queen Mother for her medical skills.
The Queen Mother asked her: Do you have any brothers who can be officials?
Sister Yizong replied, "I have a younger brother who doesn't learn well and can't become an official."
The Queen Mother told the emperor about this, and the emperor appointed Yi Xun's younger brother Yi Zong as the lieutenant, and later as the lieutenant of Shangdang County.
As an official, he was daring and daring, rarely showing warmth and restraint. The county was safe and sound, and he was elected as the best in the world.
Later, he was transferred to the county magistrate of Changling and Chang'an. He was able to govern according to the law and was not afraid of or avoided prominent relatives.
Because of the arrest and interrogation of Xiu Zhong, the son of Xiucheng, the grandson of the Queen Mother, the emperor believed that he was capable and transferred him to the rank of Captain of Hanoi.
As soon as he took office, he eradicated the local powerful Zhou clan, and the Hanoi area suddenly became peaceful and peaceful.
Zhang Cigong also became a Langguan and joined the army because of his bravery and ability. He dared to go deep into battle and made military exploits, and was given the title of An Touhou.
Ning Cheng was living leisurely at home, and the emperor wanted him to serve as the county governor. Gongsun Hong, the imperial censor, said: When I was working as a minor official in Shandong, Ning Cheng was already the captain of Jinan. His governance methods were as severe as shepherding sheep with a wolf. Therefore, Ning Cheng should not be sent to govern the people.
The emperor then appointed Ning as Guandu Lieutenant.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
岁余，关吏税肄郡国出入关者，号曰： 宁见乳虎，无直甯成之怒。
其暴如此。
义纵自河内迁为南阳太守，闻甯成家居南阳，及至关，甯成侧行送迎，然纵气盛，弗为礼。
至郡，遂按甯氏，破碎其家。
成坐有罪，及孔、暴之属皆奔亡，南阳吏民重足一迹。
而平氏朱强、杜衍杜周为纵爪牙之吏，任用，迁为廷尉史。
军数出定襄，定襄吏民乱败，于是徙纵为定襄太守。
纵至，掩定襄狱中重罪二百余人，及宾客昆弟私入相视者亦二百余人。
纵一切捕鞠，曰 为死罪解脱 。
是日皆报杀四百余人。
郡中不寒而栗，猾民佐吏为治。
是时，赵禹、张汤为九卿矣，然其治尚宽，辅法而行，纵以鹰击毛挚为治。
后会更五铢钱白金起，民为奸，京师尤甚，乃以纵为右内史，王温舒为中尉。
温舒至恶，所为弗先言纵，纵必以气陵之，败坏其功。
其治，所诛杀甚多，然取为小治，奸益不胜，直指始出矣。
吏之治以斩杀缚吏为务，阎奉以恶用矣。
纵廉，其治效郅都。
translation: 
More than a year later, the officials guarding the customs and the people entering and leaving the customs from various counties all shouted: "I would rather see Ruhu angry than Ning Cheng."
It can be seen that his violence has reached such a level.
Yi Zong was transferred from Hanoi to be the prefect of Nanyang. He heard that Ning Cheng's family was in Nanyang. When he arrived at the pass, Ning Cheng had come to the roadside to greet him. However, Yi Zong was so angry that he did not salute Ning Cheng.
As soon as he arrived in Nanyang County, he investigated the Ning family and ransacked his home.
Ning Cheng was convicted, but the Kong family, Bao family and other powerful people fled. The officials and people in Nanyang were afraid of Yi Zong and did not dare to disobey his orders.
Zhu Qiang of the Ping family and Du Zhou of Du Yan became Yi Zong's minions and subordinates, and were appointed and promoted to imperial officials.
At that time, the army was transferred out of Dingxiang several times. The officials and people in Dingxiang were very chaotic and corrupt, so the court transferred Yi and appointed him as the prefect of Dingxiang.
As soon as Yi Zong arrived, he detained more than 200 felons in Dingxiang Prison, as well as more than 200 guests and brothers who secretly visited them in the prison.
Yi Zong arrested them all and convicted them of "death penalty".
That day Yi Zong petitioned for permission to kill more than 400 people.
From then on, everyone in the county trembled with fear, and even cunning and cunning people helped the officials to govern the place.
At that time, Zhao Yu and Zhang Tang were already nine ministers, but their governance was still relatively loose. All auxiliary laws were implemented, and only Yi Zong used harsh methods like an eagle catching a parrot to govern.
Later, with the replacement of the five-baht coin and the rise of silver, traitors and thieves were prevalent among the people, especially in the capital. The imperial court appointed Yi Zong as the right internal history and Wang Wenshu as the lieutenant.
Wang Wenshu was very cruel and never told Yi Zong beforehand when doing things, but Yi Zong would definitely use his power to ruin his reputation.
They governed the people and killed too many people, but they could only achieve small governance. The number of traitors and thieves increased and it was difficult to catch them.
Officials used killing, kidnapping, and kidnapping as their main method to govern the people, so Yan Feng was appointed because of his cruelty and cruelty.
He is righteous and honest, and his method of governing the people is based on the example of Zhidu.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
上幸鼎湖，病久，已而卒起幸甘泉，道不治。
上怒曰： 纵以我为不行此道乎？
衔之。
至冬，杨可方受告缗，纵以为此乱民，部吏捕其为可使者。
天子闻，使杜式治，以为废格沮事，弃纵市。
后一岁，张汤亦死。
王温舒，阳陵人也。
少时椎埋为奸。
已而试县亭长，数废。
数为吏，以治狱至廷尉史。
事张汤，迁为御史，督盗贼，杀伤甚多。
稍迁至广平都尉，择郡中豪敢往吏十余人为爪牙，皆把其阴重罪，而纵使督盗贼，快其意所欲得。
此人虽有百罪，弗法；即有避回，夷之，亦灭宗。
以故齐赵之郊盗不敢近广平，广平声为道不拾遗。
上闻，迁为河内太守。
素居广平时，皆知河内豪奸之家。
及往，以九月至，令郡具私马五十匹，为驿自河内至长安，部吏如居广平时方略，捕郡中豪猾，相连坐千余家。
上书请，大者至族，小者乃死，家尽没入偿臧。
奏行不过二日，得可，事论报，至流血十余里。
河内皆怪其奏，以为神速。
尽十二月，郡中无犬吠之盗。
其颇不得，失之旁郡，追求，会春，温舒顿足汉曰： 嗟乎，令冬月益展一月，足吾事矣！
translation: 
The emperor came to Dinghu. He had been ill for many days. After recovering, he drove to Ganquan, but the road had not been repaired yet.
The emperor said angrily: "Does Yi Zong think that I will not take this path?"
So I wrote it down.
In winter, Yang Ke had just presided over the complaint. Yi Zong thought it was an act of chaos, so he sent officials to capture the envoy sent by Yang Ke.
When the emperor heard about this incident, he asked Du Shi to try it, and he was convicted of infringing and abolishing Shaoshu. Yi Zong was executed and his body was abandoned in the market.
A year later, Zhang Tang also died.
Wang Wenshu was from Yangling.
When he was young, he killed people with vertebrae, buried them privately, and became a thief.
Later, he broke away from the traitorous party and became the county pavilion chief. He was deposed several times.
After being appointed to official positions several times, Wang Wenshu was promoted to the rank of Ting Wei Shi because of his ability in managing the prison.
Under Zhang Tang, he was transferred to the post of censor, supervising the arrest of thieves and killing many people.
Later, he gradually rose to the rank of Captain of Guangping. He chose more than a dozen brave heroes from the county to be his minions. He concealed their serious crimes and let them supervise the arrest of thieves. Wang Wenshu was very happy because he captured the people he wanted to arrest.
Therefore, although this person has hundreds of sins, he has not been questioned or punished; but if he does not try his best to supervise the arrest and adopts an evasive attitude, he will be executed immediately and his clan will be exterminated.
As a result, thieves from the Qi-Zhao border areas did not dare to approach Guangping, and the Guangping area began to be famous for not picking up people on the road.
When the emperor heard about this, he transferred Wang Wenshu to be the prefect of Hanoi County.
Wang Van Thu always lived in Quang Binh and was already aware of the home of gangsters and rapists in Ha Noi County.
When he arrived in September, he ordered the county to prepare fifty private horses and set up post stations on the road from Hanoi to Chang'an. He also ordered the officials to use the method originally used in Guangping to arrest the powerful and traitorous people in the county. More than a thousand people were involved in each other and were guilty.
Then he reported to the court, requesting that those who committed the most serious crimes should have their clan destroyed, those who had committed the minor crimes personally be put to death, and all their family possessions should be confiscated.
Only two days after the memorial was sent, the news of the accurate memorial was received, and the execution was carried out according to the order, causing the blood of the murdered person to flow for more than ten miles.
The people in Hanoi were surprised by this performance and thought it was so fast.
By the end of December, there were no traces of thieves in the county.
The thieves could not be caught because they all fled to neighboring counties, and they sent people to hunt for them in neighboring counties. However, it was already the spring season. Wang Wenshu paused and sighed: What a pity, what a pity! If the winter season is extended for another month and all thieves are wiped out, it will be done!


Chunk 9: 
original: 
其好杀行威不爱人如此。
上闻之，以为能，迁为中尉。
其治复放河内，徒请召猜祸吏与从事，河内则杨皆、麻戊，关中扬赣、成信等。
义纵为内史，惮之，未敢恣治。
及纵死，张汤败后，徙为廷尉。
而尹齐为中尉坐法抵罪，温舒复为中尉。
为人少文，居它惛惛不辩，至于中尉则心开。
素习关中俗，知豪恶吏，豪恶吏尽复为用。
吏苛察淫恶少年，投缿购告言奸，置伯落长以收司奸。
温舒多谄，善事有势者；即无势，视之如奴。
有势家，虽有奸如山，弗犯；无势，虽贵戚，必侵辱。
舞文巧，请下户之猾，以动大豪。
其治中尉如此。
translation: 
This shows how far he has reached in terms of his cruelty, love of killing, and lack of benevolent governance.
The emperor heard about Wang Wenshu and thought he was talented, so he transferred him to lieutenant.
Its governance was modeled after Hanoi County, and some officials who were prone to suspicion and trouble were summoned and appointed. In Hanoi County, there were Yang Jie and Ma Wu, and in Guanzhong, there were Yang Gan, Cheng Xin, etc.
Yi Zong served as internal history, and Wang Wenshu was afraid of him, so he did not dare to impose tyranny.
After Yi Zong died and Zhang Tang was defeated, Wang Wenshu was transferred to Tingwei.
However, when Yin Qi was charged with breaking the law while serving as lieutenant, Wang Wenshu was appointed as lieutenant again.
He lacked literary talent and was often absent-minded and indifferent to official duties when holding other official positions. However, he became energetic after becoming a lieutenant.
He had always been familiar with the customs of Guanzhong and had many acquaintances with the abominable officials. Therefore, after he became a lieutenant, all the abominable officials were re-appointed.
The officials strictly inspected the promiscuous young people, set up reporting gates to collect reports, and set up officials and chiefs of the towns to arrest the traitors.
Wang Wenshu loves flattery and is very good at flattering and winning over powerful people; but he treats powerless people like slaves.
To powerful people, even if they have adultery, they will not offend; to powerless people, even if they are noble relatives, they will be insulted.
He was cunning and deceitful, and he once petitioned to punish lawless elements among the common people, and used his satire to impress wealthy families.
It can be seen how smooth his ruling skills have been.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
奸猾穷治，大氐尽靡烂狱中，行论无出者。
其爪牙吏虎而冠。
于是中尉部中中猾以下皆伏，有势者为游声誉，称治。
数岁，其吏多以权贵富。
温舒击东越还，议有不中意，坐以法免。
是时，上方欲作通天台而未有人，温舒请复中尉脱卒，得数万人作。
上说，拜为少府。
徙右内史，治如其故，奸邪少禁。
坐法失官，复为右辅，行中尉，如故操。
岁余，会宛军发，诏征豪吏。
温舒匿其吏华成，及人有变告温舒受员骑钱，它奸利事，罪至族，自杀。
其时，两弟及两婚家亦各自坐它罪而族。
translation: 
Those cunning and lawless people were thoroughly punished, and most of them died in prison, and very few of them came out.
Wang Wenshu's minions and subordinates are all like wolves and tigers.
As a result, all the cunning thieves below the average level in the lieutenant's jurisdiction were brought to justice, and the powerful tycoons praised him and praised him for his ability to govern the people.
A few years later, all of his petty officials became rich thanks to the protection of powerful people.
Wang Wenshu came back from the attack on Shuyue. When he discussed political affairs, he went against the emperor's will, so he was dismissed from office.
At this time, the emperor just wanted to build the Tongtian Tower but lacked manpower. Wang Wenshu petitioned to call all the outstanding soldiers who were former lieutenants, and obtained tens of thousands of manpower in total.
The emperor was very happy and appointed Wang Wenshu as the young master.
Later, he was transferred to You Neishi, but his governance remained the same, and the number of cunning and evil people was reduced until they were completely banned.
Later, he was dismissed from office because of his conviction. After his comeback, he served as right assistant and concurrently as lieutenant, and his conduct remained the same as before.
More than a year later, when the imperial court sent troops to conquer Dawan, the emperor issued an edict to recruit powerful officials.
Wang Wenshu hid his powerful official Hua Cheng, and someone reported that Wang Wenshu secretly accepted dirty money from soldiers and did other illegal things. The crime should be punished by the clan. Wang Wenshu could not bear this blow, so he committed suicide out of fear of the crime.
At that time, Wang Wenshu's two younger brothers and his wife's entire family were also executed together as a clan for his crimes.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
光禄勋徐自为曰： 悲夫！
夫古有三族，而王温舒罪至同时而五族乎！
温舒死，家累千金。
尹齐，东郡茌平人也。
以刀笔吏稍迁至御史。
事张汤，汤数称以为廉。
武帝使督盗贼，斩伐不避贵势。
迁关都尉，声甚于甯成。
上以为能，拜为中尉。
吏民益凋敝，轻齐木强少文，豪恶吏伏匿而善吏不能为治，以故事多废，抵罪。
后复为淮阳都尉。
王温舒败后数年，病死，家直不满五十金。
所诛灭淮阳甚多，及死，仇家欲烧其尸，妻亡去，归葬。
杨仆，宜阳人也。
以千夫为吏。
河南守举为御史，使督盗贼关东，治放尹齐，以敢击行。
稍迁至主爵都尉，上以为能。
南越反，拜为楼船将军，有功，封将梁侯。
东越反，上欲复使将，为其伐前劳，以书敕责之曰： 将军之功，独有先破石门、寻狭，非有斩将骞旗之实也，乌足以骄人哉！
前破番禺，捕降者以为虏，掘死人以为获，是一过也。
建德、吕嘉逆罪不容于天下，将军拥精兵不穷追，超然以东越为援，是二过也。
士卒暴露连岁，为朝会不置酒，将军不念其勤劳，而造佞巧，请乘传行塞，因用归家，怀银黄，垂三组，夸乡里，是三过也。
失期内顾，以道恶为解，失尊尊之序，是四过也。
欲请蜀刀，问君贾几何，对曰率数百，武库日出兵而阳不知，挟伪干君，是五过也。
translation: 
Guang Luxun Xu Ziwei said: How sad! How sad!
In ancient times, there was a plan to exterminate three tribes, but Wang Wenshu actually committed the crime of annihilating five tribes at the same time!
After Wang Wenshu's death, his family property was worth thousands of gold.
Yin Qi is from Chiping County, Dongjun.
Officials with swords and pens were gradually promoted to censors.
Working under Zhang Tang, Zhang Tang praised him many times for his integrity.
Emperor Wu sent him to supervise thieves. He killed and eradicated thieves without fearing their fame and power.
Later he was transferred to Guandu Lieutenant, and his reputation surpassed that of Ning Cheng.
The emperor thought he had talent and appointed him lieutenant.
However, the situation of the officials and the people was deteriorating. The world was hypocritical and untrue. Yiqi Muqiang was looked down upon for his lack of literary talent. Evil officials refused to take up their posts. Good officials were incapable of managing affairs. Yin Qi was also accused because most of his duties were neglected.
Later he came back and became the captain of Huaiyang.
A few years after Wang Wenshu's defeat, Yin Qi fell ill and died, leaving behind less than fifty gold.
Because he killed too many people in Huaiyang, after his death, his enemies wanted to burn his body to satisfy their hatred, so his wife fled with the body and was able to bury him.
Yang Pu is from Yiyang.
Because thousands of people donated money and grain, he became a minor official.
Later, the governor of Henan recommended him as a censor and was sent to Guandong to supervise thieves. He imitated Yi Qi in governance and was daring to do anything.
Gradually promoted to Lord Commander, the emperor thought he had talent.
South Vietnam rebelled, and Yang Pu was appointed General Lou Chuan. For his meritorious service, he was awarded the title of General Liang Hou.
Later, Shu Yue rebelled again, and the emperor wanted to appoint him as a general again. Because he was relying on his previous achievements in vain, he issued an edict to reprimand him: Your achievements as a general are only the first to capture dangerous places such as Shimen and Xunjun. There is no real military merit in killing generals and flags. What is there to be proud of?
The first mistake was to conquer Panyu, capture the surrendered people as prisoners, and exhume the dead as harvest.
The rebellion committed by King Jiande of South Vietnam and Prime Minister Lu Jia is intolerable in heaven and earth. General, you have elite troops and did not pursue them to the end, allowing Shu Yue to calmly send troops to rescue. This is the second fault.
The sergeants and soldiers of the army have been exposed to the rain for years, and there is no wine to drink in the court meetings. General, you do not appreciate their hard work, but make clever words to show off yourself. When you return to your hometown, you carry three groups of silver and gold seals. Showing off in the countryside is the third fault.
Because he was greedy for keeping his wife and concubines home late, he excused himself by saying that the road was dangerous. This violated the ancestral etiquette, which was the fourth fault.
If you want to be equipped with a Shu knife, I ask you how much it costs, and the answer is hundreds of dollars. Weapons are coming in and out of the weapons warehouse every day, but you pretend not to know. This is the fifth fault.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
受诏不至兰池宫，明日又不对。
假令将军之吏问之不对，令之不从，其罪何如？
推此心以在外，江海之间可得信乎！
今东越深入，将军能率众以掩过不？
仆惶恐，对曰： 愿尽死赎罪！
与王温舒俱破东越。
后复与左将军荀彘俱击朝鲜，为彘所缚，语在《朝鲜传》。
还，免为庶人，病死。
咸宣，杨人也。
以佐史给事河东守。
卫将军青使买马河东，见宣无害，言上，征为厩丞。
官事办，稍迁至御史及中丞，使治主父偃及淮南反狱，所以微文深诋杀者甚众，称为敢决疑。
数废数起，为御史及中丞者几二十岁。
王温舒为中尉，而宣为左内史。
其治米盐，事小大皆关其手，自部署县名曹宝物，官吏令丞弗得擅摇，痛以重法绳之。
translation: 
After receiving the edict, he did not come to Lanchi Palace to see you, and he did not come to explain later.
If, general, your subordinates refuse to answer questions or obey orders, how should you punish them?
Just imagine if everyone is like this, how can there be any trust between heaven and earth?
Now that the Shuyue rebels have penetrated deep into the Han territory, General, can you lead troops to fight against the enemy and make up for your mistakes?
After hearing this, Yang Pu was very frightened and replied: I am willing to die in battle to atone for my sins and make meritorious service!
Later, he and Wang Wenshu defeated the Shuyue rebels together.
He also attacked North Korea with General Xun Shen of the left, but was bound by Xun Shen. This story can be seen in "Chosun Biography".
After returning to the court, Yang Pu was dismissed from his official position and became a commoner. He eventually fell ill and died.
Xianxuan was born in Yang County.
He served under the governor of Hedong as an assistant historian.
General Wei Qing asked him to buy horses in Hedong. He found that Xianxuan was very capable, so he reported it to the emperor and recruited him as a stable official.
Xianxuan handled official affairs diligently, and was gradually promoted to censor and Zhongcheng. He was sent to handle the cases of Zhufu Yan and Huainan Wang Zao.
After several dismissals and comebacks, Xianxuan served as censor and Zhongcheng for almost twenty years.
When Wang Wenshu was a lieutenant, Xian Xuan was appointed as Zuo Neishi.
This job is very detailed. He has to handle all matters big and small personally. He also has to personally check the collection and storage of physical objects belonging to Cao Cao in each county. Officials are not allowed to touch without authorization, otherwise they will be punished severely.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
居官数年，一切为小治辩，然独宣以小至大，能自行之，难以为经。
中废为右扶风，坐怒其吏成信，信亡藏上林中，宣使郿令将吏卒，阑入上林中蚕室门攻亭格杀信，射中苑门，宣下吏，为大逆当族，自杀。
而杜周任用。
是时，郡守尉、诸侯相、二千石欲为治者，大抵尽效王温舒等，而吏民益轻犯法，盗贼滋起。
南阳有梅免、百政，楚有段中、杜少，齐有徐勃，燕、赵之间有坚卢、范主之属。
大群至数千人，擅自号，攻城邑，取库兵，释死罪，缚辱郡守、都尉，杀二千石，为檄告县趋具食；小群以百数，掠卤乡里者不可称数。
于是上始使御史中丞、丞相长史使督之，犹弗能禁，乃使光禄大夫范昆、诸部都尉及故九卿张德等衣绣衣，持节、虎符，发兵以兴击，斩首大部或至万余级。
translation: 
Xianxuan had been an official for several years, and all he dealt with were trivial matters. However, Xianxuan was uniquely able to see the big from the small, but his working methods could only be implemented by himself, and it was difficult to become a widely applicable common method.
During this period, Xianxuan was dismissed from his post for some reason and was demoted to You Fufeng, so he blamed his subordinate Chengxin, who fled to Shanglin and hid. Xianxuan ordered the county magistrate to lead his troops to break into the silkworm house in Shanglin Garden without authorization and attack and kill Chengxin.
And Du Zhou was appointed.
At that time, most of the officials, such as county guards, captains, and princes, whose salary was two or one stone, wanted to manage their areas well, followed the practices of Wang Wenshu and others. However, this made the officials and the people pay less attention to illegal matters, and thieves also thrived.
In Nanyang there were Mei Fu and Baizheng, Chu had Duan Zhong and Du Shao, Qi had Xu Bo, and Yan Tang had Jian Lu, Fan Zhu and others.
They often gathered thousands of people, proclaimed themselves kings without authorization, attacked towns, took out weapons from the treasury, released condemned criminals, bound and humiliated county guards and captains, and even killed them. They were also good at writing documents to urge the county government to prepare food for them: at a young age, they could gather hundreds of people, and there were countless incidents of looting the countryside.
So the emperor ordered the Yushi Zhongcheng and the Prime Minister Changshi to supervise these things, but still could not stop them, so he ordered Fan Kun, the official of Guanglu, the captains of various ministries, and Zhang De, the former nine ministers, to wear embroidered clothes and hold talismans. They formally sent troops to attack the thieves using the method of military prosperity. They killed most of the thieves and took off more than ten thousand heads in total.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
及以法诛通行饮食，坐相连郡，甚者数千人。
数岁，乃颇得其渠率。
散卒失亡，复聚党阻山川，往往而群，无可奈何。
于是作沈命法，曰： 群盗起不发觉，发觉而弗捕满品者，二千石以下至小吏主者皆死。
其后小吏畏诛，虽有盗弗敢发，恐不能得，坐课累府，府亦使不言。
故盗贼浸多，上下相为匿，以避文法焉。
田广明字子公，郑人也。
以郎为天水司马。
攻次迁河南都尉，以杀伐为治。
郡国盗贼并起，迁广明为淮阳太守。
translation: 
And according to the law, the people who provided food and drink to the thieves were killed, so as to collude with the counties to investigate the crime, as many as thousands of people.
After a few years, many leaders of thieves were captured.
However, their thieves fled to various places, and they gathered into a clan and took over the mountain as kings. They were often so numerous that the local government was helpless.
Therefore, the imperial court promulgated the "Senior Law" to punish those who hide and flee, saying: If thieves rise up and cause trouble without being noticed, and if a certain number of thieves are not caught after being discovered, the county magistrate and the lower level will be executed.
After that, the petty officials were afraid of being killed. Even though they knew there was a thief, they did not dare to report it, fearing that they would not be caught. They were convicted because they did not check enough and the county government was in trouble. The county government also asked them not to say anything.
As a result, there are more and more thieves, hiding from each other and concealing the truth with falsehoods to avoid legal investigation.
Tian Guangming, courtesy name Zigong, was born in Zheng County.
He became the Sima of Tianshui as a Langguan.
Because of his meritorious service, he was transferred to the rank of Captain of Henan and used severe methods of killing to govern the place.
At that time, thieves and thieves were rising in various counties, and the imperial court transferred Tian Guangming to be the governor of Huaiyang.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
岁余，故城父令公孙勇与客胡倩等谋反，倩诈称光禄大夫，从车骑数十，言使督盗贼，止陈留传舍，太守谒见，欲收取之。
广明觉知，发兵皆捕斩焉。
而公孙勇衣绣衣，乘驷马车至圉，圉使小史侍之，亦知其非是，守尉魏不害与厩啬夫江德、尉史苏昌共收捕之。
上封不害为当涂侯，德轑阳侯，昌蒲侯。
初，四人俱拜于前，小史窃言。武帝问： 言何？
对曰： 为侯者得东归不？ 上曰： 女欲不？
贵矣。
女乡名为何？ 对曰： 名遗乡。
上曰： 用遗汝矣。
于是赐小史爵关内侯，食遗乡六百户。
上以广明连禽大奸，征入为大鸿胪，擢广明兄云中代为淮阳太守。
昭帝时，广明将兵击益州，还，赐爵关内侯，徙卫尉。
translation: 
More than a year later, the father of Qiancheng ordered Gongsun Yong and his guest Hu Qian to rebel together. Hu Qian pretended to be Doctor Guanglu and was accompanied by dozens of chariots. He was ordered to come to inspect the thieves and rested at the inn of Chenliu Station. The county prefect went to see him and wanted to invite him back to receive him well.
Later, Tian Guangming discovered the conspiracy of rebellion, so he sent troops to arrest and kill all the rebels.
However, Gongsun Yong wore embroidered clothes and fled to Yuxian County in a carriage driven by four horses. Yuxian County sent Xiao Shi to guard him and discovered the details. The guard Wei Buhao, together with the stable husband Jiang De and Wei Shi Suchang, arrested Gongsun Yong.
The emperor granted Wei Buha the title of Dangtuhou, Jiang Dejue of Lianyanghou, and Su Lujue of Puhou.
At first, when the four of them went to the imperial court to pay homage to the emperor, Xiao Shi was whispering, and Emperor Wu asked him: "What are you talking about?"
Xiao Shi replied: Can a person who has been given the title of Marquis not go back to the East? The emperor said: Don't you want to go back?
I will also give you a title.
What is the name of your hometown? Xiao Shi replied: It's called Qianxiang.
The emperor said: This seems to be abandoning you.
So Xiao Shi was given the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a fiefdom of 600 households in Qianxiang.
Because Tian Guangming had captured big thieves one after another, the emperor recruited him as Da Honglu and promoted Tian Guangming's brother Tian Yunzhong to succeed him as the governor of Huaiyang.
During the reign of Emperor Zhao, Tian Guangming led troops to attack Yizhou. After returning to the court, he was given the title of Marquis of Guannei and transferred to the rank of Weiwei.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
后出为左冯翊，治有能名。
宣帝初立，代蔡义为御史大夫，以前为冯翊与议定策，封昌水侯。
岁余，以祁连将军将兵击匈奴，出塞至受降城。
受降都尉前死，丧柩在堂，广明召其寡妻与奸。
既出不至质，引军空还。
下太仆杜延年簿责，广明自杀阙下，国除。
兄云中为淮阳守，亦敢诛杀，吏民守阙告之，竟坐弃市。
田延年字子宾，先齐诸田也，徙阳陵。
延年以材略给事大将军莫府，霍光重之，迁为长史。
出为河东太守，选拔尹翁归等以为爪牙，诛锄豪强，奸邪不敢发。
以选入为大司农。
会昭帝崩，昌邑王嗣立，淫乱，霍将军忧惧，与公卿议废之，莫敢发言。
延年按剑，廷叱群臣，即日议决，语在《光传》。
宣帝即位，延年以决疑定策封阳成侯。
先是，茂陵富人焦氏、贾氏以数千万阴积贮炭苇诸下里物。
昭帝大行时，方上事暴起，用度未办，延年奏言： 商贾或豫收方上不祥器物，冀其疾用，欲以求利，非民臣所当为。
translation: 
Later, he served as Zuo Fengyi, who was famous for his high ability in governance.
When Emperor Xuan first ascended the throne, Tian Guangming succeeded Cai Yi as the imperial censor. Because he had made outstanding contributions to the government when he was Zuo Fengyi, he was awarded the title of Marquis of Changshui.
More than a year later, Tian Guangming, as General Qilian, led his troops to attack the Huns, marched north to the fortress and reached the surrender city.
The captain of the city had died earlier, and the coffin containing the body was still in the mourning hall. Tian Guangming summoned his widowed wife to commit adultery with him.
Later, he failed to reach his intended destination and returned empty-handed with his troops.
Therefore, Tian Guangming was handed over to the prefect Du Yannian for trial. Soon after, he committed suicide under the palace palace, and the fiefdom was lifted.
His elder brother Tian Yunzhong served as the governor of Huaiyang and also dared to carry out the policy of killing. The officials and people in the county went to the palace to report him, but he was convicted and executed for this, and his body was abandoned in the city.
Tian Yannian, named Zibin, was a descendant of the previous Qi states. The Tian family was moved to Yangling during the reign of Emperor Gaozu.
Tian Yannian served in the shogunate of the general because of his outstanding talents. Huo Guang valued him very much and appointed him as a long history officer.
Later, Tian Yannian became the governor of Hedong, and selected Yin Wenggui and others as his minions to kill and suppress the local powerful, so that the traitors would not dare to come out to cause trouble.
Therefore, Tian Yannian was selected to be a chief agricultural officer in Beijing.
When Emperor Zhao died, King Liu He of Changyi succeeded to the throne. He was very promiscuous. General Huo Guang was very worried, so he discussed with the ministers to depose him, but no one dared to speak.
At this time, Tian Yannian pressed his sword and scolded the ministers present in court, and a decision was made immediately. These deeds are recorded in the "Biography of Huo Guang".
Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, and Tian Yannian was awarded the title of Marquis of Yangcheng for his meritorious service in political affairs.
Previously, the wealthy Jiao family and Jia family in Maoling spent tens of millions of money to accumulate charcoal, reeds, grass and other burial supplies.
When Emperor Zhao passed away and was conducting a funeral, the demand for these materials suddenly became a problem and was difficult to handle. Therefore, Tian Yannian wrote in a memorial: Some businessmen have stored ominous materials for burial in advance, preparing to make huge profits when they are urgently needed. This is not what civilians and ministers should do.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
请没入县官。
奏可。
富人亡财者皆怨，出钱求延年罪。
初，大司农取民牛车三万两为僦，载沙便桥下，送致方上，车直千钱，延年上簿诈增僦直车二千，凡六千万，盗取其半。
焦、贾两家告其事，下丞相府。
丞相议奏延年 主守盗三千万，不道 。
霍将军召问延年，欲为道地，延年抵曰： 本出将军之门，蒙此爵位，无有是事。
光曰： 即无事，当穷竟。
御史大夫田广明谓太仆杜延年： 《春秋》之义，以功覆过。
当废昌邑王时，非田子宾之言大事不成。
今县官出三千万自乞之何哉？
愿以愚言白大将军。
延年言之大将军，大将军曰： 诚然，实勇士也！
当发大议时，震动朝廷。
translation: 
The request was confiscated and sent to the county magistrate.
His memorial was approved.
The rich people who lost money resented him very much, so they spent money to buy connections and asked him to manage their fields and extend their lives.
At the beginning, Tian Yannian, a big farmer, rented 30,000 people's ox carts to transport sand under the bridge and to the cemetery. The rental value of each cart was one thousand yuan. When Tian Yannian reported the rent, he falsely reported that the added value was two thousand yuan per cart, totaling 60 million yuan, and he embezzled half of it.
Jiao and Mai reported the matter, and Tian Yannian was handed over to the Prime Minister's Office for trial.
The Prime Minister reported that Tian Yannian took advantage of official duties to embezzle 30 million yuan, which was a treasonous crime.
General Huo Guang summoned Tian Yannian and wanted to smooth things over for him. Tian Yannian denied: I came from the general's family and got my current title only because of your great kindness. There is no such thing.
Huo Guang said: Since there is nothing wrong, we should clarify the facts as soon as possible.
Tian Guangming, the imperial censor, said to his servant Du Yannian: The thoughts in "Spring and Autumn" have made up for this level with merit.
When Liu He, the king of Changyi, should be deposed, it would not have been possible if Tian Zibin had not been brave enough to speak out.
Now it's just that the county magistrate offered 30 million yuan and begged him to accept it, so what does it mean?
I am willing to persuade the general with my foolish words.
Du Yannian reported what he heard to the general, and the general said: Of course, Yin Yannian is indeed a warrior!
This news should be announced during the court meeting to shock the court.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
光因举手自抚心曰： 使我至今病悸！
谢田大夫晓大司农，通往就狱，得公议之。
田大夫使人语延年，延年曰： 幸县官宽我耳，何面目入牢狱，使众人指笑我，卒徒唾吾背乎！
即闭阁独居齐舍，偏袒持刀东西步。
数日，使者召延年诣廷尉。
闻鼓声，自刎死，国除。
严延年字次卿，东海下邳人也。
其父为丞相掾，延年少学法律丞相府，归为郡吏。
以选除补御史掾，举侍御史。
是时，大将军霍光废昌邑王，尊立宣帝。
宣帝初即位，延年劾奏光 擅废立主，无人臣礼，不道 。
奏虽寝，然朝廷肃焉敬惮。
translation: 
Huo Guang then raised his hand to his heart and said, "This incident still makes me heartache!"
Thanks to Doctor Tian for defending Da Sinong, but according to the court's reasoning, Tian Yannian should be sent to prison and let the public decide on him.
Dr. Tian Guangming instigated people to tell Tian Yannian the above situation. Tian Yannian said: Fortunately, the county palace came out to excuse me. How could I have the face to enter the prison and let everyone point at me and laugh at me, while the jailer spits behind my back!
Then he closed the door and lived alone in his own room. He pulled off half of his clothes and walked back and forth in the house with a knife in his hand.
A few days later, the messenger came to summon Tian Yannian to come to the court to hear the crime.
When Tian Yannian heard the sound of drums, he committed suicide with a knife and died.
After his death, his fiefdom was immediately recovered. Yan Yannian, courtesy name Yiqing, was born in Xiapi County, Donghai County.
His father was an official of the prime minister. Leg Jade Locust studied law in the Prime Minister's Mansion when he was young. Later, he returned to his hometown and worked as an official in the county government.
Later, after selection, he was appointed as the imperial censor in the palace, and he was recommended to be the imperial censor.
At this time, General Huo Guang deposed King Changyi and replaced Emperor Moxuan.
Soon after Emperor Xuan came to the throne, Yan Yannian wrote a letter to impeach Huo Guang, saying that he had deposed the monarch without authorization, lost the dignity of a minister, and committed the crime of treason.
Although the memorial was shelved, the whole court was shocked by it, and people respected and feared Yan Yannian.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
延年后复劾大司农田延年持兵干属车，大司农自讼不干属车。
事下御史中丞，谴责延年何以不移书宫殿门禁止大司农，而令得出入宫。
于是复劾延年阑内罪人，法至死。
延年亡命。
会赦出，丞相、御史府征书同日到，延年以御史书先至，诣御史府，复为掾。
宣帝识之，拜为平陵令，坐杀不辜，去官。
后为丞相掾，复擢好畤令。
神爵中，西羌反，强弩将军许延寿请延年为长史，从军败西羌，还为涿郡太守。
时，郡比得不能太守，涿人毕野白等由是废乱。
大姓西高氏、东高氏，自郡吏以下皆畏避之，莫敢与牾，咸曰： 宁负二千石，无负豪大家。
translation: 
Yan Yannian also impeached Da Si Nong Yannian for carrying weapons to offend the emperor's rear car, but Da Sinong himself defended that there was no such thing.
So the case was handed over to the censor Zhongcheng for investigation. The censor Zhongcheng reprimanded Yan Yannian and asked him why he did not write an official document to the palace guard to prevent the great Sinong from entering the palace, but allowed the great Sinong to enter and exit the palace at will.
In this way, Yan Yannian was accused of condoning criminals who broke into the palace privately, and was sentenced to death according to law.
Yan Yannian had no choice but to flee.
After a general amnesty, Yan Yannian dared to show up again. It happened that the requisition documents from the Prime Minister's Palace and the Yushi's Palace were also delivered on the same day. Since the documents from the Yushi's Palace came first, Yan Yannian went to work in the Yushi's Palace and became an official there.
However, Emperor Xuan still remembered his impeachment of Huo Guang, so he appointed him as the magistrate of Pingling County. During his tenure, he was convicted and dismissed for wrongfully killing an innocent person.
He was later appointed as a vassal of the prime minister, and then promoted to the county magistrate of Hershey.
During the reign of Shenjue, the Xiqiang rebelled. General Xu Yanshou, a powerful crossbow general, invited Yan Yannian to be a long history officer, joined the army and defeated the Xiqiang. After returning to the court, he was appointed as the governor of Zhuojun.
At that time, the governors sent to Zhuojun were all incompetent. As a result, Bi Yebai and others from Zhuojun were able to ignore public laws and disturb the countryside.
The powerful clans Xigao and Shugao became even more arrogant. Even the officials in the county avoided them and did not dare to contradict them. They all said: It is better to offend the prefect than to offend the wealthy family.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
宾客放为盗贼，发，辄入高氏，吏不敢追。
浸浸日多，道路张弓拔刃，然后敢行，其乱如此。
延年至，遣掾蠡吾赵绣按高氏得其死罪。
绣见延年新将，心内惧，即为两劾，欲先白其轻者观延年意，怒，乃出其重劾。
延年已知其如此矣。
赵掾至，果白其轻者，延年索怀中，得重劾，即收送狱。
夜入，晨将至市论杀之，先所按者死，吏皆股弁。
更遣吏分考两高，穷竟其奸，诛杀各数十人。
郡中震恐，道不拾遗。
三岁，迁河南太守，赐黄金二十斤。
豪强胁息，野无行盗，威震旁郡。
translation: 
The servants of these two families stole and robbed wantonly outside. Once the incident happened, they hid in the master's house, and the officials no longer dared to pursue them.
As time went on like this, pedestrians had to draw their bows and swords before they dared to walk on the road. The thieves in the county were in chaos and competed to such an extent.
After Yan Yannian took office, he immediately sent Liwu, an official of the county government, to investigate the Gao family's crimes and found them guilty of capital crimes.
Zhao Xiu was frightened when he saw that Yan Yannian was a new county general, so he drafted two letters of impeachment, preparing to report the lighter one first. If Yan Yannian got angry, he would take out the more severe one.
Unexpectedly, Yan Yannian already knew the truth beforehand.
When Zhao Xiu came, he was indeed given a minor impeachment document. Yan Yannian immediately found the serious impeachment document from Zhao Xiu's arms and sent him to prison immediately.
The first night he was imprisoned, and the next morning he was taken to the city to be convicted and beheaded. He died in front of the Gao family he was investigating, which made the officials' legs tremble with fear.
Yan Yannian sent people to investigate the two Gao families separately, thoroughly investigating their crimes of adultery and robbery, and executed dozens of people in each family.
The people in the county were greatly shocked and no one was allowed to leave the country.
Three years later, Yan Yannian was transferred to the post of governor of Henan and was rewarded with twenty gold.
The tyrants in Henan County immediately restrained their behavior, and there were no more thieves in the remote areas. Yan Yannian's prestige shocked the neighboring counties.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
其治务在摧折豪强，扶助贫弱。
贫弱虽陷法，曲文以出之；其豪杰侵小民者，以文内之。
众人所谓当死者，一朝出之；所谓当生者，诡杀之。
吏民莫能测其意深浅，战栗不敢犯禁。
按其狱，皆文致不可得反。
延年为人短小精悍，敏捷于事，虽子贡、冉有通艺于政事，不能绝也。
吏忠尽节者，厚遇之如骨肉，皆亲乡之，出身不顾，以是治下无隐情。
然疾恶泰甚，中伤者多，尤巧为狱文，善史书，所欲诛杀，奏成于手，中主簿亲近史不得闻知。
奏可论死，奄忽如神。
translation: 
His purpose in governing the local area was to suppress the powerful and help the poor and the weak.
Even if the poor and weak break the law, they must be protected and covered up to free them; and for those strong and powerful bullies who oppress the people, the text must be aggravated to put them in jail.
Prisoners who everyone thought must be sentenced to death may not be released from prison at any time; and those who were not considered guilty of capital crimes were unexpectedly killed.
Officials and common people were unable to predict the sentencing standards for Yan Yannian's law enforcement, so everyone was very frightened for fear of breaking the law.
It can be verified that every case Yan Yannian takes over is carefully documented. Unchangeable.
Yan Yannian was short in stature, smart and capable, and was flexible and quick in doing things. Even Zigong, Ran You and others who were famous for their proficiency in government affairs in history may not be able to defeat him.
For those who are loyal to the public among his officials, he will treat them as generously as his own family members, be close to them and consider them wholeheartedly, regardless of personal gains and losses, so nothing can be hidden from him in the area under his jurisdiction.
However, Yan Yannian hated bad people who did too much, and many people were harmed. Especially because he was good at writing prison speeches and government documents. He wrote memorials in his own hand for whomever he wanted to kill, and even the central official who was in charge of the documents and the officials closest to him had no way of knowing.
The memorial can accurately determine a person's death penalty, as fast as a god.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
冬月，传属县囚，会论府上，流血数里，河南号曰 屠伯 。
令行禁止，郡中正清。
是时，张敞为京兆尹，素与延年善。
敞治虽严，然尚颇有纵舍，闻延年用刑刻急，乃以书谕之曰： 昔朝卢之取菟也，上观下获，不甚多杀。
愿次卿少缓诛罚，思行此术。
延年报曰： 河南天下喉咽，二周余毙，莠盛苗秽，何可不锄也？
自矜伐其能，终不衰止。
时，黄霸在颍川以宽恕为治，郡中亦平，屡蒙丰年，凤皇下，上贤焉，下诏称扬其行，加金爵之赏。
translation: 
When execution time came in winter, he would order the counties under his jurisdiction to deliver the prisoners to the county, where they would all be gathered together in the county to be executed. At this time, blood would often flow for miles, so people in Henan counties called him "Butcher".
In his jurisdiction, all orders are followed and all prohibitions are stopped. The whole county is Qingming.
At this time, Zhang Chang took up the post of Jing Zhaoyin, and he and Yan Yannian had always been friendly.
Although Zhangchang's governance is also strict, some criminals can be dealt with leniently as appropriate. He heard that Yan Yannian used harsh and harsh punishments, so he wrote to him to advise him: When Han Lu, the famous good dog in ancient times, hunted hares, he would first look at his master's eyes, and then chase and capture them, without killing too much.
Therefore, I hope that you, the Second Minister, will relax the punishment of execution a little and consider following Han Lu's approach.
Yan Yannian wrote back and said: Henan is the throat of the world. The rulers of the east and west weeks have left too many disadvantages. The evil weeds are lush and the seedlings are sparse. How can they not be eradicated?
He used this to boast of his talents and achievements, never relaxing or suspending the punishment for murder.
At this time, Huang Ba used tolerant methods to govern the place in Yingchuan. The county was also peaceful, and there were continuous good years, and the phoenix also descended from the sky. The emperor appreciated Huang Ba's talent and virtue, issued an edict to praise his political achievements, and rewarded him with gold and a title.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
延年素轻霸为人，及比郡为守，褒赏反在己前，心内不服。
河南界中又有蝗虫，府丞义出行蝗，还见延年，延年曰： 此蝗岂凤皇食邪？
义又道司农中丞耿寿昌为常平仓，利百姓，延年曰： 丞相御史不知为也，当避位去。
寿昌安得权此？
后左冯翊缺，上欲征延年，符已发，为其名酷复止。
延年疑少府梁丘贺毁之，心恨。
会琅邪太守以视事久病，满三月免，延年自知见废，谓丞曰： 此人尚能去官，我反不能去邪？
又延年察狱史廉，有臧不入身，延年坐选举不实贬秩，笑曰： 后敢复有举人者矣！
丞义年老颇悖，素畏延年，恐见中伤。
translation: 
Yan Yannian had always despised Huang Ba's character, but he did not expect that when he served as the governor of a neighboring county, the rewards he received were higher than his own, so he was really unconvinced.
It happened that locusts appeared again in Henan. Fu Chengyi went to inspect the disaster situation. After returning to the county, he went to see Yan Yannian. Yan Yannian said: Are these locusts the food of Phoenix?
Fu Chengyi also talked about the construction of Changpingcang in the border county by Geng Shouchang, the prime minister of agriculture, which was beneficial to the people. Yan Yannian said: The prime minister and the censor can't even think of this method, they should abdicate and leave!
How could Shouchang use this to seek power?
Later, Zuo Fengyi became vacant, and the emperor planned to appoint Yan Yannian. The bamboo charms for recruitment had been sent out, but because of his reputation for cruelty, he gave up.
Yan Yannian suspected that the young master Liang Qiuhe had said bad things about him in front of the emperor, so he held a grudge.
When the governor of Langxie was dismissed for three months due to long-term illness during his tenure, Yan Yannian knew that he would also be dismissed, so he said to Fu Cheng: This person can be dismissed from office, but I can't be dismissed from office?
Furthermore, Yan Yannian recommended a prison officer to be honest, but he was found guilty of corruption, and those who committed corruption were not allowed to be selected. For this reason, Yan Yannian was found guilty of recommending talents that were not in line with reality, and was demoted. He smiled and said: Looking forward, who else dares to recommend talents!
Fu Chengyi is old and confused. He has always been afraid of Yan Yannian and worried about being hurt.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
延年本尝与义俱为丞相史，实亲厚之，无意毁伤也，馈遗之甚厚。
义愈益恐，自筮得死卦，忽忽不乐，取告至长安，上书言延年罪名十事。
已拜奏，因饮药自杀，以明不欺。
事下御史丞按验，有此数事，以结延年，坐怨望非谤政治不道弃市。
初，延年母从东海来，欲从延年腊，到雒阳，适见报囚。
母大惊，便止都亭，不肯入府。
延年出至都亭谒母，母闭阁不见。
延年免冠顿首阁下，良久，母乃见之，因数责延年： 幸得备郡守，专治千里，不闻仁爱教化，有以全安愚民，顾乘刑罚多刑杀人，欲以立威，岂为民父母意哉！
延年服罪，重顿首谢，因自为母御，归府舍。
母毕正腊，谓延年： 天道神明，人不可独杀。
我不意当老见壮子被刑戮也！
行矣！去女东归，扫除墓地耳。
translation: 
Yan Yannian once served as an official in the Prime Minister's Mansion with Yi Tong. In fact, he was very kind and kind to him. He had no intention of harming him and often gave him many things.
But Yi became more and more frightened, so he privately divined fortunes, but what he got was a dead divination. He felt lost and unhappy, so he took the opportunity of vacation to go to Chang'an and wrote to the emperor listing ten things that constituted Yan Yannian's crime.
After delivering the memorial, he committed suicide by taking poison to show his loyalty to the emperor.
The case was handed over to Yu Shicheng for review and verification. If the above things are true, it is enough for Yan Yannian to close the case. As a result, Yan Yannian was sentenced to death for resenting the imperial court, slandering state affairs, and killing innocent people, and his body was displayed to the public.
At first, Yan Yannian's mother came from Shuhai County and planned to perform the wax sacrifice ceremony with Yan Yannian. As soon as he arrived in Luoyang, he encountered prisoners being executed.
The mother was shocked, so she stopped in Duting and refused to enter the county mansion.
Yan Yannian went out of the city to visit his mother in Duting, but her mother disappeared behind closed doors.
Yan Yannian took off his hat and kowtowed outside the door. After a while, his mother saw him, so she reprimanded him: "I am fortunate to be the governor of a county and govern a place with a radius of thousands of miles. I have never heard that you teach the people with kindness and love to make them peaceful. Instead, you rely on punishment and killing people wantonly to establish your prestige. Is this how a parent official of the common people behaves!"
Yan Yannian quickly admitted his mistake, kowtowed heavily and apologized, then drove his mother in person and returned to the county together.
After Zhengla's sacrifice was completed, his mother said to Yan Yannian: The sky is above and knows everything clearly. How can anyone kill people indiscriminately without suffering retribution?
I never imagined that in my old age, I would have to witness my son being tortured in his prime! Here I go!
I'll say goodbye to you, return to my hometown in the east, and prepare a burial place for you. The mother then left.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
遂去，归郡，见昆弟宗人，复为言之。
后岁余，果败。
东海莫不贤知其母。
延年兄弟五人皆有吏材，至大官，东海号曰 万石严妪 。
次弟彭祖，至太子太傅，在《儒林传》。
尹赏字子心，巨鹿杨氏人也。
以郡吏察廉为楼烦长。
举茂材、粟邑令。
左冯翊薛宣奏赏能治剧，徙为频阳令，坐残贼免。
后以御史举为郑令。
永始、元延间，上怠于政，贵戚骄恣，红阳长仲兄弟交通轻侠，臧匿亡命。
而北地大豪浩商等报怨，杀义渠长妻子六人，往来长安中。
丞相、御史遣掾求逐党与，诏书召捕，久之乃得。
translation: 
When he returned to the county, he met his brothers and his family and told them what he said above.
More than a year later, Yan Yannian's affair was revealed.
Everyone in Donghai County praises Yan's mother for her virtuous wisdom.
The five Yannian brothers all had the talent to be officials, and they all became high-ranking officials. Therefore, the people of Donghai County called Yan's mother Yan's Lady of Wanshi.
Yan Yannian's second brother was named Yan Pengzu, and he rose to the rank of Crown Prince and Tutor. His deeds are recorded in "The Scholars".
Yin Shang, courtesy name Zixin, was from the Yang family in Julu.
As a county official, he was appointed as the head of the building because he was honest and honest.
Later, Maocai was recommended as magistrate of Suyi County.
Zuo Fengyi and Xue Xuan reported that Yin Shou could manage difficult remote counties, so he was transferred to Pinyang County magistrate, and was dismissed from office because he used torture to maim the criminals.
Later, he was appointed magistrate of Zheng County on the recommendation of the imperial censor.
During the Yongshi and Yuanyan years, the emperor was slack in government affairs, his relatives were arrogant and unruly, and the Hongyang Changzhong brothers colluded with the rangers and took in desperadoes.
However, Hao Shang, a wealthy merchant in the north, and others tried to avenge their personal grievances and killed six people, including Chief Yi Qu, his wife and children, while traveling in and out of Chang'an.
The prime minister and censor sent their subordinates to track down the traitors, and the court also issued an edict to capture them. It took a long time to capture them.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
长安中奸猾浸多，闾里少年群辈杀吏，受赇报仇，相与探丸为弹，得赤丸者斫武吏，得黑丸者斫文吏，白者主治丧；城中薄墓尘起，剽劫行者，死伤横道，枹鼓不绝。
赏以三辅高第选守长安令，得一切便宜从事。
赏至，修治长安狱，穿地方深各数丈，致令辟为郭，以大石覆其口，名为 虎穴 。
乃部户曹掾史，与乡吏、亭长、里正、父老、伍人，杂举长安中轻薄少年恶子，无市籍商贩作务，而鲜衣凶服被铠扞持刀兵者，悉籍记之，得数百人。
赏一朝会长安吏，车数百辆，分行收捕，皆劾以为通行饮食群盗。
赏亲阅，见十置一，其余尽以次内虎穴中，百人为辈，覆以大石。
数日一发视，皆相枕藉死，便舆出，瘗寺门桓东。楬著其姓名，百日后，乃令死者家各自发取其尸。
亲属号哭，道路皆歔欷。
长安中歌之曰： 安所求子死？
桓东少年场。
translation: 
There were many thieves and traitors in the city of Chang'an. The wandering teenagers in the alleys ganged up to kill officials. Some even accepted bribes to avenge others. They made red, black, and white bullets for each person, and those who got the red bullets went to kill the military officials. Those who got the black bullets went to kill civil servants, and those who got the white bullets organized funerals for their comrades who were killed; for a while, the city was filled with smoke, thieves robbed pedestrians, dead bodies blocked the streets, and the sound of drums filled the city.
Yin Shang was selected as the third assistant Gaodi to temporarily serve as the Chang'an Order, and was given the privilege to work randomly.
After Yin Shang took office, he built Chang'an Prison. He ordered many deep holes to be drilled into the ground, each several feet deep. The soil he took out was used to build earth walls around it, and then he covered the holes with big stones. He called these holes "Tiger Cave".
After the completion of the work, he deployed household officials, subordinate officials, as well as township officials, pavilion chiefs, Li Zheng, elders, Wu people and other subordinates, and asked them to report frivolous young people and unruly children in various places in Chang'an City. He also reported all the traders and craftsmen who did not have local registered permanent residence, and who were wearing dangerous clothes such as boring armor, armbands, and holding swords and arrows. There were hundreds of people in total.
One day after that, Yin Shang summoned the officials of Chang'an, big and small, and prepared hundreds of chariots and horses, and ordered them to arrest the detected persons separately, believing that they were all thieves who endangered social security.
Yin Shang personally inspected the tigers and let one person go after watching ten people. The rest were thrown into the tiger's den one by one, with about a hundred people in each hole. Finally, the entrance of the cave was covered with a big stone.
A few days later, people opened the stone and inspected it, and saw that the people below were all lying dead on top of each other. So they took out the corpses and buried them on the east side of the temple gate. They inserted wooden stakes and wrote their names on each. After a hundred days, the families of the deceased were allowed to dig out the corpses and retrieve them.
The family members all cried loudly, and the passers-by also sighed.
There is a song in Chang'an city that talks about this matter: Where can I find the corpses of my children?
Huabiao faces the youth field.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
生时谅不谨，枯骨后何葬？
赏所置皆其魁宿，或故吏善家子失计随轻黠愿自改者，财数十百人，皆贳其罪，诡令立功以自赎。
尽力有效者，因亲用之为爪牙，追捕甚精，甘耆奸恶，甚于凡吏。
赏视事数月，盗贼止，郡国亡命散走，各归其处，不敢窥长安。
江湖中多盗贼，以常为江夏太守，捕格江贼及所诛吏民甚多，坐残贼免。
南山群盗起，以赏为右辅都尉，迁执金吾，督大奸猾。
三辅吏民甚畏之。
数年卒官。
疾病且死，戒其诸子曰： 丈夫为吏，正坐残贼免，追思其功效，则复进用矣。
一坐软弱不胜任免，终身废弃无有赦时，其羞辱甚于贪污坐臧。
慎毋然！
赏四子皆至郡守，长子立为京兆尹，皆尚威严，有治办名。
translation: 
If a traitor and thief did not cultivate his moral integrity during his lifetime, where will his bones be buried after his death?
Yin Shang released only dozens or hundreds of people who were old acquaintances with whom he had close friendships, or officials and children of kind-hearted people in the old days who had affairs with thieves due to temporary confusion and were willing to correct themselves. Yin Shang gave them a suspended sentence and ordered them to perform meritorious services to redeem themselves.
Among them, those who work hard and make progress are even adopted as minions by Yin Shang. They are good at hunting down bad guys and understand the likes, dislikes and whereabouts of thieves, and are much better than ordinary people in this regard.
After Yin Shang visited Chang'an for a few months, the thieves stopped their activities. Out of fear, the outside thieves fled back to their original counties and no longer dared to spy on Chang'an.
Due to the proliferation of bandits in rivers and lakes, Yin Shang was appointed as the prefect of Jiangxia. He hunted and killed many bandits in rivers and lakes and killed officials and people indiscriminately.
A swarm of thieves broke out in the Nanshan area. Yin Shang was appointed as the Youfu Commander, and later transferred to Zhi Jinwu, responsible for supervising the traitors.
The three auxiliary officials and the people were very afraid of him.
A few years later, Yin Shang died in office.
When he was about to die of illness, he warned his children: When a man is an official, he is not afraid of being dismissed from office for being a thief. If he reflects on the effect afterwards, he will be appointed again.
And once someone is removed from office due to weakness and dereliction of duty, he will be discarded for life and never be used again. This kind of humiliation is much more serious than committing the crime of corruption and harboring.
Please be careful and don’t neglect your duties!
Yin Shang's four sons all became officials and became county guards, and the eldest son Yin Li became a Jingzhao Yin. They all respected majesty and had a reputation for being good at governance.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
赞曰： 自郅都以下皆以酷烈为声，然都抗直，引是非，争大体。
张汤以知阿邑人主，与俱上下，时辩当否，国家赖其便。
赵禹据法守正。
杜周从谀，以少言为重。
张汤死后，罔密事丛，浸以耗废，九卿奉职，救过不给，何暇论绳墨之外乎！
自是以至哀、平，酷吏众多，然莫足数，此其知名见纪者也。
其廉者足以为仪表，其污者方略教道，一切禁奸，亦质有文武焉。
虽酷，称其位矣。
汤、周子孙贵盛，故别传。
translation: 
Zan said: The recorded masters from Zhidu on down were all famous for their harshness and violence. However, Zhidu was upright, knew right from wrong, and understood the general picture.
However, Zhang Tang flattered the monarch and was valued for his appearance and deeds. He often used clever words to stir up trouble and made the trend of flattery prevail in the country.
Yu acted according to the law and strictly observed justice.
Du Zhou was obedient to flattery, and it was important to speak less in everything.
After Zhang Tang's death, the law was strict and troubled, and the country became increasingly chaotic and desolate. The nine ministers were busy rescuing and fighting the chaos, so they had no time to discuss matters other than the rule of law!
From then until the reigns of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, there were many cruel officials, but it is impossible to count them. Here we only select the famous ones and see them in the records.
Among them, those who are honest can serve as examples, while those who are dirty may have strategies and education, or may have the courage to punish traitors and thieves, and may also have literary talents and military strategies.
Although they are harsh, they are capable of doing their jobs.
The descendants of Zhang Tang and Du Zhou were famous and prosperous, so they were recorded in separate biographies.


