Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 2, 5, 12]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝惠皇帝讳衷，字正度，武帝第二子也。
泰始三年，立为皇太子，时年九岁。
太熙元年四月己酉，武帝崩。是日，皇太子即皇帝位，大赦，改元为永熙。尊皇后杨氏曰皇太后，立妃贾氏为皇后。
夏五月辛未，葬武皇帝于峻阳陵。
丙子。增天下位一等，预丧事者二等，复租调一年，二千石已上皆封关中侯。
以太尉杨骏为太傅，辅政。
秋八月壬午，立广陵王遹为皇太子，以中书监何劭为太子太师，吏部尚书王戎为太子太傅，卫将军杨济为太子太保。
赖祖宗遗灵，宰辅忠贤，得以眇身托于群后之上，昧于大道，不明于训，战战兢兢，夕惕若厉。乃者哀迷之际，三事股肱，惟社稷之重，率遵翼室之典，犹欲长奉先皇之制，是以有永熙之号。然日月逾迈，已涉新年，开元易纪，礼之旧章。
其改永熙二年为永平元年。
又诏子弟及郡官并不得谒陵。
丙午，皇太子冠，丁未，见于太庙。
二月甲寅，赐王公已下帛各有差。
癸酉，镇南将军楚王玮、镇东将军淮南王允来朝。
戊寅，复置秘书监官。
三月辛卯，诛太傅杨骏，骏弟卫将军珧，太子太保济，中护军张劭，散骑常侍段广、杨邈。左将军刘预，河同尹李斌，中书令符俊，东夷校尉文淑，尚书武茂，皆夷三族。
壬辰，大赦，改元。
translation: 
Emperor Hui Ji, Emperor Xiaohui's name is Zhong, and his courtesy name is Zhengdu. He is the second son of Emperor Wu.
In the third year of Taishi's reign, he was established as the crown prince. He was nine years old at the time.
On April 20, the first year of Taixi, Emperor Wu died. On that day, the crown prince ascended the throne as emperor. He granted a general amnesty to sinners, changed the reign name to Yongxi, honored the empress Yang as the empress dowager, and established the crown prince Jia as the empress.
On the 13th day of the fifth lunar month, Emperor Wu was buried in Junyang Mausoleum.
On the 18th, the official rank in the world was increased to one level, and those who participated in the funeral of Emperor Wu were increased to the second level. People were exempted from taxes for one year, and officials with more than 2,000 shi were granted the title of Guanzhong Marquis.
Taiwei Yang Jun was appointed as Taifu to assist in government affairs.
On the twenty-sixth day of the eighth month in autumn, Sima Wei, the king of Guangling, was established as the crown prince, He Shao, the eunuch of the Zhongshu, as the crown prince's chief tutor, Wang Rong, the official secretary of the Ministry of Personnel, as the crown prince's Taifu, and General Yang Ji of the Wei as the crown prince's Taibao.
Nan Zhonglang General Shi Chong, Shesheng Colonel Hu Yi, Changshui Colonel Zhao Jun, and Yang Lie General Zhao Huan were sent to lead their troops to garrison in all directions. On the sixth day of the tenth lunar month in winter, Sikong Shijian was appointed as Taiwei, and Sima Tai, the former general of Zhenxi and King of Longxi, was appointed as Sikong. On the first day of spring in the first year of Yongping, Emperor Hui came to the court to celebrate, but there was no music. The edict said: I have suffered misfortune early on and have endured hardships for a long time. It is only because of the spirit of my ancestors and the loyalty and virtuousness of my ministers and ministers that I am able to entrust my small body to the princes and ministers. I don't know the great road and ancient precepts, so I am trembling with fear, day and night. The three ministers attached great importance to the country, abided by the old regulations in the palace, and always followed the system of the previous emperor, so they changed the reign name to Yongxi. However, as time passed, the new year has entered, and the new era has changed, but the old rituals are still the same.
The second year of Yongxi is now changed to the first year of Yongping.
He also issued an edict that his children and officials were not allowed to visit the mausoleum.
On the 22nd, the crown prince came of age and was crowned. On the 23rd, he went to the Ancestral Temple to pay his respects.
On the first day of the second lunar month, the following silks were given to the prince.
On the 20th, Sima Wei, the general of Zhennan and the king of Chu, and Sima Yun, the general of Zhendong and the king of Huainan, came to see him.
On the 25th, he resumed his position as secretary and supervisor.
On the eighth day of March, they killed Grand Tutor Yang Jun, Yang Jun's brother Wei General Yang Jue, Prince Taibao Yang Ji, Central Guard Zhang Shao, Sanqi Changshi Duan Guang and Yang Miao, Zuo General Liu Yu, Henan Yin Li Bin, Zhongshu Ling Jiang Jun, Dongyi school captain Wen Shu, Shangshu Wu Mao, all three tribes were wiped out.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, sinners are pardoned and the year is changed.
summary:
Emperor Hui Ji, named Zhong and styled Zhengdu, was the second son of Emperor Wu. He was made crown prince at age nine in the third year of Taishi and ascended the throne on April 20, the first year of Taixi, upon Emperor Wu's death. He granted amnesty, changed the reign name to Yongxi, honored Empress Yang as empress dowager, and established Crown Prince Jia as empress. Emperor Wu was buried in Junyang Mausoleum on May 13. Officials and participants in the funeral received rank promotions, taxes were exempted for a year, and high-ranking officials were granted titles. Taiwei Yang Jun was appointed Taifu to assist in governance. In the eighth month, Sima Wei, King of Guangling, was made crown prince, with He Shao, Wang Rong, and Yang Ji as his tutors. Generals were sent to garrison various regions. In winter, Sikong Shijian became Taiwei, and Sima Tai, King of Longxi, became Sikong. In the first year of Yongping, Emperor Hui issued an edict expressing his humility and fear, changing the reign name from Yongxi to Yongping. He forbade officials from visiting the mausoleum, and the crown prince came of age and was crowned. In the second month, silks were given to the prince, and Sima Wei and Sima Yun visited. In the third month, Grand Tutor Yang Jun and others were killed, and their clans were exterminated. Empress Jia deposed the empress dowager and killed her mother. Sima Liang, King of Runan, was made Dazai to assist in government, and other nobles received appointments. Over a thousand people were ennobled, but Sima Yao and Sima Mao were later dismissed.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
贾后矫诏废皇太后为庶人，徙于金墉城，告于天地宗庙。
诛太后母庞氏。
壬寅，征大司马、汝南王亮为太宰，与太保卫瓘辅政。
以秦王柬为大将军，东平王楙为抚军大将军，镇南将军、楚王玮为卫将军，领北军中候，下邳王晃为尚书令，东安公繇为尚书左仆射，进封东安王。
督将侯者千八十一人。
庚戌，免东安王繇及东平王楙，繇徙带方。
夏四月癸亥，以征东将军、梁王肜为征西大将军、都督关西诸军事，太子少傅阮垣为平东将军、监青徐二州诸军事。
己巳，以太子太傅王戎为尚书右仆射。
五月甲戌，毗陵王轨薨。
壬午，除天下户调绵绢，赐孝悌、高年、鳏寡、力田者帛，人三匹。
六月，贾后矫诏使楚王玮杀太宰、汝南王亮，太保、菑阳公卫瓘。
乙丑，以玮擅害亮、瓘，杀之。
曲赦洛阳。
以广陵王师刘寔为太子太保，司空、陇西王泰录尚书事。
秋七月，分扬州、荆州十郡为江州。
八月庚申，以赵王伦为征东将军、都督徐兗二州诸军事；河间王颙为北中郎将，镇鄴；太子太师何劭为都督豫州诸军事，镇许昌。
徙长沙王乂为常山王。
己巳，进西阳公羕爵为王。
辛未，立陇西世子越为东海王。
九月甲午，大将军、秦王柬薨。
辛丑，徵征西大将军、梁王肜为卫将军、录尚书事，以赵王伦为征西大将军、都督雍梁二州诸军事。
冬十二月辛酉，京师地震。
是岁，东夷十七国、南夷二十四部并诣校尉内附。
二年春二月己酉，贾后弑皇太后于金墉城。
translation: 
Under the guise of the emperor's edict, Empress Jia deposed the Empress Dowager as a commoner, moved to Jinyong City, and offered sacrifices to the Tiandi Ancestral Temple.
Killed the Queen Mother Pang.
On the 19th, Da Sima and Sima Liang, king of Runan, were recruited as Dazai, and together with Taibao Niu, they assisted in the government affairs.
Sima Jian, the king of Qin, was the general of the Fu army, Sima Mao, the king of Dongping, was the general of the Fu army. General Zhennan and Sima Wei, the king of Chu, were the generals of the guards, leading the middle marquis of the northern army. Sima Huang, the king of Xiapi, was the Shangshu Ling. Ma Yao of the Dong'an Company was the Shangshu Zuopushe, and Jin was granted the title of King of Dong'an.
There are 1,081 people who have been ennobled by the governor-general.
On the 27th, Sima Yao, king of Dong'an, and Sima Mao, king of Dongping, were relieved of their official positions, and Sima Yao moved to Daifang.
On the 11th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Sima Xu, the king of Liang and the general of Zhengdong, was appointed as the general of Zhengxi and the commander-in-chief of all the military forces in Guanxi. The prince Shaofu Ruan Tan was appointed as the general of Pingdong and the governor of Qing and Xuzhou.
On the 17th, Prince Taifu Wang Rong was appointed as the right servant of Shangshu.
On the day of Jiaxu in the fifth month, Sima Gui, the king of Piling, died.
On Renwu, all people in the world were exempted from taxes and silk. Those who were filial, elderly, widowed, and those who worked hard in the fields were given three pieces of silk each.
In the sixth month, Empress Jia used the emperor's edict to send King Sima Wei of Chu to kill Dazai, King Sima Liang of Runan, and Taibao Sima Wei.
On the 13th, Sima Wei was executed for killing Sima Liang and Wei Ni without permission.
Amnesty for prisoners in Luoyang.
Liu Shi, the teacher of King Guangling, was appointed as the Taibao of the Crown Prince, and Sikong and King Sima Tai of Longxi were appointed ministers.
In the seventh month of autumn, ten counties were divided from Jingzhou and Yangzhou into Jiangzhou.
On the ninth day of August, Sima Lun, king of Zhao, was appointed as the general to conquer the east and the military commander of Xu and Yanzhou; Sima Yong, king of Hejian, was the general of Beizhonglang, guarding Yecheng; He Shao, the prince's grand master, was the commander of the military of Yuzhou and guarded Xuchang.
King Sima Kui moved to Changsha and became the King of Changshan.
On the 18th, Ma Fan of Xiyang Company was promoted to king.
On the 20th, Sima Yue, the eldest son of Longxi King Sima Tai, was made King of East China Sea.
On September 14th, the general Qin Wang Sima Jian died.
On the 21st, Sima Xu, the general of the expedition to the west and the king of Liang, was recruited as the general of the guard and the official secretary. Sima Lun, the king of Zhao, was recruited as the general of the expedition to the west and the governor of Yong and Liang states.
On December 12th in winter, there was an earthquake in the capital.
In this year, the seventeen countries of Dongyi and the twenty-four tribes of Nanyi went to the school captain who had jurisdiction over the barbarians to contact them.
In the spring of the second year, on the first day of February, Empress Jia killed the Empress Dowager in Jinyong City.
summary:
In the fourth month, Sima Xu, King of Liang, was appointed general, and Ruan Tan became governor. In the fifth month, Sima Gui, King of Piling, died, and taxes were exempted for the elderly and widowed. In the sixth month, Empress Jia ordered Sima Wei to kill Sima Liang and Sima Wei, then executed Sima Wei for unauthorized killings. In the seventh month, ten counties were divided into Jiangzhou. In the eighth month, Sima Lun, King of Zhao, and Sima Yong, King of Hejian, received military commands. Sima Kui moved to Changshan, and Ma Fan and Sima Yue were made kings. In the ninth month, Sima Jian, King of Qin, died. In the twelfth month, an earthquake struck the capital. That year, seventeen Dongyi countries and twenty-four Nanyi tribes made contact.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
秋八月壬子，大赦。
九月乙酉，中山王耽薨。
冬十一月，大疫。
是岁，沛国雨雹，伤麦。
三年夏四月，荥阳雨雹。
六月，弘农郡雨雹，深三尺。
冬十月，太原王泓薨。
四年春正月丁酉朔，侍中、太尉、安昌公石鉴薨。
夏五月，蜀郡山移，淮南寿春洪水出，山崩地陷，坏城府及百姓庐舍。
匈奴郝散反，攻上党，杀长吏。
六月，寿春地大震，死者二十余家。
上庸郡山崩，杀二十余人。
秋八月，郝散帅众降，冯翊都尉杀之。
上谷居庸、上庸并地陷裂，水泉涌出，人有死者。
大饥。
九月丙辰，赦诸州之遭地灾者。
甲午，枉矢东北竟天。
是岁，京师及郡国八地震。
五年夏四月，彗星见于西方，孛于奎，至轩辕。
六月，金城地震。
东海雨雹，深五寸。
秋七月，下邳暴风，坏庐舍。
九月，雁门、新兴、太原、上党大风，伤禾稼。
冬十月，武库火，焚累代之宝。
十二月丙戌，新作武库，大调兵器。
丹杨雨雹。
有石生于京师宜年里。
是岁，荆、扬、兗、豫、青、徐等六州大水，诏遣御史巡行振贷。
六年春正月，大赦。
司空、下邳王晃薨。
以中书监张华为司空，大尉、陇西王泰为尚书令，卫将军、梁王肜为太子太保。
丁丑，地震。
三月，东海陨霜，伤桑麦。
彭城吕县有流血，东西百余步。
夏四月，大风。
五月，荆、扬二州大水。
匈奴郝散弟度元帅冯翊、北地马兰羌、庐水胡反，攻北地，太守张损死之。
冯翊太守欧阳建与度元战，建败绩。
translation: 
On the seventh day of the eighth lunar month in autumn, a general amnesty will be implemented.
On September 11th, Sima Dan, King of Zhongshan, died.
In November of winter in Hongchao Network, a great plague occurred.
This year, there was hail in the country of Pei, which destroyed the wheat.
In April of the third year of summer, there was hail in Xingyang.
In June, there was hail in Hongnong County, which was three feet deep.
In the tenth month of winter, Sima Hong, king of Taiyuan, died.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the spring of the fourth year, Shi Zhong, Taiwei, and Anchang Gongshi Jian died.
In the fifth month of summer, the mountains in Shu County moved, and the Shouchun flood in Huainan burst its banks, causing landslides and landslides, destroying the city, government offices and people's houses.
The Huns Hao San rebelled, attacked and plundered Shangdang, and killed the local governor.
In June, a strong earthquake occurred in Shouchun, killing more than 20 families.
A landslide in Shangyong County killed more than 20 people.
In the eighth month of autumn, Hao San led his troops to surrender, and Captain Feng Yi killed him.
The lands of Shanggu, Juyong and Shangyong collapsed, springs gushed out from the ground, and there were casualties.
A great famine occurred.
On September 23, areas affected by the earthquake were pardoned in various states.
During the Sino-Japanese War of the Sino-Japanese War, big meteors started from the northeast and crossed the sky.
This year, an earthquake occurred in the capital and eight counties.
In April of the fifth year of summer, the comet appeared in the west, passed by Kuixing, and reached the Xuanyuan constellation.
In June, there was an earthquake in Jincheng.
There was hail in the East China Sea, which was five inches deep.
In the seventh month of autumn, a strong wind blew in Xiapi, destroying the houses.
In September, strong winds blew in Yanmen, Xinxing, Taiyuan and Shangdang, destroying crops.
In the tenth month of winter, a fire broke out in the arsenal, destroying the treasures left behind by the past dynasties.
On the first day of December, a new arsenal was built and a large number of weapons were mobilized.
Danyang hails.
A stone was born from the ground in the appropriate year of the capital.
This year, floods occurred in Jing, Yang, Yan, Henan, Qing, and Xu states. The emperor issued an edict to send censors to various places to inspect and relieve the victims.
In the spring and first month of the sixth year, sinners are pardoned.
Sikong and Sima Huang, king of Xiapi, died.
Zhang Hua, the Superintendent of the Zhongshu, was the Sikong, Taiwei and Sima Tai, the King of Longxi, were the Shangshu Ling, and General Wei and Sima Xu, the King of Liang, were the Taibao of the Crown Prince.
On the 22nd, there was an earthquake.
In March, frost fell in Donghai County, damaging the mulberry trees and wheat seedlings.
There was blood on the ground in Lu County, Pengcheng, and it was more than a hundred steps long from east to west.
In April in summer, there is a strong wind.
In May, there were floods in Jingzhou and Yangzhou.
Duyuan, the brother of Hao San, the Xiongnu, led Feng Yi, Malanqiang and Lushui Hu people in the Beidi area to rebel and attack the Beidi. The governor of the Beidi died in the battle.
Ouyang Jian, the governor of Feng Yi, fought with Du Yuan, and Ouyang Jian was defeated.
summary:
In the second year, Empress Jia killed the empress dowager. In the eighth month, a general amnesty was declared. In the ninth month, Sima Dan, King of Zhongshan, died. In the eleventh month, a great plague occurred. Hail destroyed crops in Pei. In the third year, hail fell in Xingyang and Hongnong. In the fourth year, Shi Jian died, and natural disasters struck Shu and Shouchun. The Xiongnu Hao San rebelled but later surrendered and was killed. Earthquakes and landslides caused casualties and famine. In the fifth year, a comet appeared, and earthquakes, hail, and strong winds caused damage. A fire destroyed the arsenal. Floods struck several provinces, and the emperor sent censors to provide relief. In the sixth year, amnesty was declared, and officials died or were appointed. Earthquakes, frost, and blood on the ground occurred. Floods and rebellions by the Xiongnu and Di peoples led to battles and sieges. Famine and plague struck Guanzhong. In the seventh year, Zhou Chu died in battle, and hail, plague, drought, and famine continued. The emperor allowed the sale of children. In the eighth year, earthquakes and floods occurred, but Yongzhou had a good harvest. In the ninth year, Meng Guan captured Qi Wannian. Sima Xu and Sima Yong received commands. Zhang Chengji’s rebellion was suppressed. The crown prince Sima Wei was deposed and killed.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
三月，平东将军、齐王冏起兵以讨伦，传檄州郡，屯于阳翟。
征北大将军、成都王颖，征西大将军、河间王颙，常山王乂，豫州刺史李毅，兗州刺史王彦，南中朗将、新野公歆，皆举兵应之，众数十万。
伦遣其将闾和出伊阙，张泓、孙辅出堮坂以距冏，孙会、士猗、许超出黄桥以距颍。及颖将赵骧、石超战于溴水，会等大败，弃军走。
闰月丙戌朔，日有蚀之。夏四月，岁星昼见。
冏将何勖等击张泓于阳翟，大破之，斩孙辅等。
辛酉，左卫将军王舆与尚书、淮陵王漼勒兵入宫，禽伦党孙秀、孙会、许超、士猗、骆休等，皆斩之。
逐伦归第，即日乘舆反正。
群臣顿首谢罪，帝曰： 非诸卿之过也。
癸亥，诏曰： 朕以不德，纂承皇统，远不能光济大业，靖绥四方；近不能开明刑威，式遏奸宄，至使逆臣孙秀敢肆凶虐，窥间王室，遂奉赵王伦饕据天位。
镇东大将军、齐王冏，征北大将军、成都王颖，征西大将军、河间王颙，并以明德茂亲，忠规允著，首建大策，匡救国难。
尚书漼共立大谋，左卫将军王舆与群公卿士，协同谋略，亲勒本营，斩秀及其二子。
前赵王伦为秀所误，与其子等已诣金墉迎朕幽宫，旋轸阊阖。岂在予一人独飨其庆，宗庙社稷实有赖焉。
于是大赦，改元，孤寡赐谷五斛，大酺五日。
诛赵王伦、义阳王威、九门侯质等及伦之党与。
五月，立襄阳王尚为皇太孙。
六月戌辰，大赦，增吏位二等。复封宾徒王晏为吴王。
庚午，东莱王蕤、左卫将军王舆谋废齐王冏，事泄，蕤废为庶人，舆伏诛，夷三族。
甲戌，以齐王冏为大司马、都督中外诸军事，成都王颍为大将军、录尚书事，河间王颙为太尉。
罢丞相，复置司徒官。
已卯，以梁王肜为太宰，领司徒。
封齐王冏功臣葛牟平公，路季小黄公，卫毅平阴公，刘真安乡公，韩泰封丘公。
秋七月甲午，立吴王晏子国为汉王，复封常山王乂为长沙王。
八月，大赦。
戊辰，原徙边者。
益州刺史罗尚讨羌，破之，己巳，徙南平王祥为宜都王。
translation: 
In March, General Pingdong and King of Qi Sima Wei raised troops to attack Sima Lun. The message was spread to various states and counties, and the army was stationed in Yangzhai.
General Zhengbei, Sima Ying, King of Chengdu, General Zhengxi, Sima Yong, King of Hejian, Sima Qi, King of Changshan, Li Yi, the governor of Yuzhou, Wang Yan, the governor of Yanzhou, General Lang of Nanzhong, and Ma Xin of the Xinye Company all raised their troops to respond to King Sima Wei of Qi, with a total of hundreds of thousands of troops from each route.
Sima Lun sent his generals Lu He to send troops to Yique, Zhang Hong and Sun Fu sent troops to Ban to fight against Sima Wei. Sun Hui, Shi Yi, and Xu Chao sent troops to Huangqiao to resist Sima Ying. They fought with Sima Ying's generals Zhao Xiang and Shi Chao at Bromishui. Sun Hui and others were defeated and fled.
On the first day of March, there is a solar eclipse. In April of summer, the year star appears during the day.
Sima Cheng's generals He Xu and Lu Bo defeated Zhang Hong's army in Yangzhai and killed Sun Fu and others.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Zuo Wei General Wang Yu and Shangshu Huailing King Sima Xucui led their troops into the palace and captured Sima Lun's party members Sun Xiu, Sun Hui, Xu Chao, Shi Yi, Luo Xiu, etc., and they were all beheaded.
Drive Sima Lun back to his mansion. Emperor Hui took the throne anyway that day.
The ministers kowtowed and apologized. Emperor Hui said, "This is not your fault."
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Emperor Hui issued an edict saying: As an immoral person, I inherited the throne, far from being able to prosper the great cause and appease the four sides, and far from being able to impose strict punishments and prohibit traitors. As a result, Sun Xiu, the rebellious minister, committed evil wantonly and waited for an opportunity to alienate the royal family, so he stole the throne from King Zhao Sima Lun.
General Zhendong and King Cong of Qi, General Zhengbei and Wang Ying of Chengdu, General Zhengxi and King Sima Yong of Hejian, all have good virtues and are members of the royal family. They are loyal to the country and behave appropriately. They are the first to oppose the great plan and save the country.
Shangshu Xu Cui participated in the plan, and the left guard general Wang Yu and the public officials and officials coordinated the plan and personally commanded the soldiers of the camp to kill Sun Xiu and his two sons.
The former King of Zhao Sima Lun was mistaken by Sun Xiu, and he and his sons have come to Jinyong You Palace to welcome me back to the throne. I am not the only one who deserves to be lucky, but the ancestral temple and the country also depend on it.
So a general amnesty was implemented, the year name was changed, the orphans and the helpless were each given grain and five dendrobiums, and a banquet among the people was allowed for five days.
Killed Zhao Wang Sima Lun, Yiyang King Sima Wei, Jiumen Hou Zhi, etc., as well as Sima Lun's party members.
In May, Sima Shang, king of Xiangyang, was made the grandson of the emperor.
On June 15, sinners were pardoned, officials were promoted to the second level, and the guest king Sima Yan was restored to the title of King of Wu.
On the 17th, King Sima Rui of Donglai and General Wang Yu of Zuowei plotted to depose King Sima Wei of Qi. The plot was leaked, Sima Rui was deposed as a commoner, Wang Yu was executed, and the three tribes were wiped out.
On the 21st, Sima Wei, the king of Qi, was appointed as the chief commander and the commander-in-chief of the Chinese and foreign military affairs. Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, was appointed as the general and the official secretary. Sima Yong, the king of Hejian, was appointed as the Taiwei.
The prime minister was dismissed and the Situ official was reinstated.
On the 26th, Sima Xu, the king of Liang, was appointed as the Grand Prime Minister and also held the post of Situ.
Ge Qi, the hero of King Sima Wei of Qi, was granted the title of Duke Mouping, Lu Ji was granted the title of Xiaohuang Gong, Wei Yi was granted the title of Pingyin Gong, Liu Zhen was granted the title of Anxiang Gong, and Han Tai was granted the title of Qiu Gong.
On the eleventh day of the seventh month in autumn, the son of Sima Yan, king of Wu, was made king of Han, and Sima Xi, king of Changshan, was restored to be king of Changsha.
In August, a general amnesty was implemented.
On the 16th, the people who moved to the border were exempted.
Luo Shang, the governor of Yizhou, attacked and defeated the Qiang people. On the 17th, Sima Xiang, the king of Nanping, became the king of Yidu.
summary:
In the first year of Yongkang, amnesty was declared, and the reign name changed. Solar eclipses, strong winds, and blood rain occurred. Empress Jia killed the deposed prince. Sima Lun and Sima Xu deposed Empress Jia, killed Zhang Hua and others, and Sima Lun became prime minister. Sima Xu became chief minister. Sima Lun killed the deposed empress. The emperor’s grandson Sima Zang was made heir. Sima Yun attacked Sima Lun but failed and was killed. Sima Lun usurped the throne in the first year of Yongning, moving Emperor Hui to Jinyong City. Sima Wei, King of Qi, raised troops against Sima Lun, joined by Sima Ying, Sima Yong, and others. Sima Lun’s forces were defeated, and Emperor Hui was restored. Sima Lun and his party were killed. Sima Wei became chief commander, and Sima Ying and Sima Yong received high offices. In the second year of Tai’an, Sima Xu died, and Li Te rebelled in Shu. Sima Yong and Sima Ying attacked Sima Xi, King of Changsha. Emperor Hui personally led troops but was defeated. Zhang Fang entered the capital, causing destruction and famine. Sima Yue arrested Sima Xi, who was killed. Li Xiong occupied Shu. In the first year of Yongxing, Sima Ying became crown prince, but was later deposed. Emperor Hui was kidnapped to Chang’an by Zhang Fang. Sima Yong controlled the government. In the second year, Sima Yue marched west to rescue the emperor. After battles, Emperor Hui returned to Luoyang. In the first year of Guangxi, Sima Yong killed Zhang Fang. Sima Yue’s forces escorted Emperor Hui back. Emperor Hui died in Xianyang Hall at age 48, possibly poisoned by Sima Yue.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
甲午又如之。
己亥，弘等奉帝还洛阳，帝乘牛车，行宫藉草，公卿跋涉。
戊申，骠骑、范阳王虓杀司隶校尉刑乔。
己酉，盗取太庙金匮及策文各四。
六月丙辰朔，至自长安，升旧殿，哀感流涕。
谒于太庙。
复皇后羊氏。
辛未，大赦，改元。
秋七月乙酉朔，日有蚀之。
太庙吏贾苞盗太庙灵衣及剑，伏诛。
八月，以太傅、东海王越录尚书，骠骑将军、范阳王虓为司空。
九月，顿丘太守冯嵩执成都王颖，送之于鄴。
进东嬴公腾爵为车燕王，平昌公模为南阳王。
冬十月，司空、范阳王虓薨。
虓长史刘舆害成都王颖。
十一月庚午，帝崩于显阳殿，时年四十八，葬太阳陵。
帝之为太子也，朝廷咸知不堪政事，武帝亦疑焉。
尝悉召东宫官属，使以尚书事令太子决之，帝不能对。
贾妃遣左右代对，多引古义。
给事张泓曰： 太子不学，陛下所知，今宜以事断，不可引书。
妃从之。
泓乃具草，令帝书之。
武帝览而大悦，太子遂安。
及居大位，政出群下，纲纪大坏，货赂公行，势位之家，以贵陵物，忠贤路绝，谗邪得志，更相荐举，天下谓之互市焉。
高平王沈作《释时论》，南阳鲁褒作《钱神论》，庐江杜嵩作《任子春秋》，皆疾时之作也。
帝文尝在华林园，闻虾蟆声，谓左右曰： 此鸣者为官乎，私乎？
或对曰： 在官地为官，在私地为私。
及天下荒乱，百姓饿死，帝曰： 何不食肉糜？
其蒙蔽皆此类也。
后因食饼中毒而崩，或云司马越之鸩。
史臣曰：不才之子，则天称大，权非帝出，政迩宵人。
褒姒共叔带并兴，襄后与犬戎俱运。
translation: 
On the 9th, it was the same again.
On the 14th, Qi Hong and others escorted Emperor Hui back to Luoyang. Emperor Hui rode in an ox cart and slept on a straw bed when staying in the palace, while the ministers walked on foot.
On the 23rd, Hussar General Fan Yang Wang Sima Jiuhu killed Sili Colonel Xing Qiao.
On the 24th, thieves stole four golden cabinets and four documents from the Ancestral Temple.
On the first day of June, Emperor Hui and his ministers arrived in Luoyang. Emperor Hui ascended to the old palace and couldn't help crying.
Visit the Ancestral Temple.
Restore the position of Queen Yang.
On the 16th, a general amnesty was implemented and the reign name was changed.
On the first day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, there is a solar eclipse.
Jia Bao, an official of the Imperial Ancestral Temple, stole the spiritual robe and sword of the Imperial Ancestral Temple and was executed.
In August, Sima Yue, the Grand Tutor of the East China Sea, was appointed Minister, and Sima Jiuhu, the General of the Hussars and Fanyang, was appointed Sikong.
In September, Feng Song, the governor of Dunqiu, arrested Sima Ying, king of Chengdu, and escorted him to Yecheng.
Ma Teng of Dongying Company was promoted to King of Dongyan, and Ma Mo of Pingchang Company was promoted to King of Nanyang.
In the tenth month of winter, Sima Jiuhu, the king of Sikong Fanyang, died.
Liu Yu, the chief historian of Sima Jiuhu, killed Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu.
On November 18, Emperor Hui died in Xianyang Hall at the age of 48 and was buried in Taiyang Mausoleum.
When Emperor Hui was the crown prince, all the ministers in the court knew that he was not qualified for world affairs, and Emperor Wu also had doubts about him.
Once, the officials of the East Palace were gathered together and asked the prince to decide on the government affairs of the minister, but the prince could not answer.
Concubine Jia sent her trusted aide to answer the question on the prince's behalf, quoting many scriptures.
Zhang Hong said to Concubine Jia: Your Majesty knows that the prince does not like to study. Today, you should answer questions based on the facts and do not quote ancient books.
Concubine Jia agreed with this opinion.
So Zhang Hong was asked to draft an answer sheet and the prince copied it and submitted it.
Emperor Wu was overjoyed after seeing it, and the prince's status was stabilized.
After he came to the throne, all major affairs of the state were in the hands of ministers, discipline was corrupted, bribery was common, powerful families used their nobles to dominate others, the path of loyalty and virtue was cut off, those who slandered and evil succeeded, and those who succeeded were recommended to each other. People all over the world called it "mutual market".
Wang Chen from Gaoping wrote "Shi Shi Lun", Lu Bao from Nanyang wrote "Qian Shen Lun", and Du Song from Lujiang wrote "Ren Zi Chun Qiu", all of which are cynical works.
Emperor Hui once visited Hualin Garden and heard the croaking of frogs. He asked his attendants, "Are they croaking like this for official business or for private matters?"
Someone answered: In public it is for business, in private it is private.
Later, there was war and famine in the world, and many people starved to death. Emperor Hui said: They have no food, why don't they eat meat?
Emperor Hui was confused and mostly like this.
Emperor Hui died of poisoning from eating pancakes. Some people say it was Sima Yue who poisoned him.
Shi Chen said: When an unworthy son ascends to the throne, the imperial power falls away, and those in power become close to villains.
Bao Si and his uncle had the same fortune, and Empress Xiang and Quan Rong had the same fortune.
summary:
Emperor Hui was deemed unfit for rule, and his reign saw corruption and chaos. He once asked if frogs croaked for public or private reasons and suggested starving people eat meat. His death ended a tumultuous period marked by civil war and decline.

