Chunk 0: 
original: 
简文皇帝讳昱，字道万，元帝之少子也。
幼而岐嶷，为元帝所爱。
郭璞见而谓人曰： 兴晋祚者，必此人也。
及长，清虚寡欲，尤善玄言。
永昌元年，元帝诏曰： 先公武王、先考恭王君临琅邪。
继世相承，国嗣未立，蒸尝靡主，朕常悼心。
子昱仁明有智度，可以虔奉宗庙，以慰罔极之恩。
其封昱为琅邪王，食会稽、宣城如旧。
咸和元年，所生郑夫人薨。
帝时年七岁，号慕泣血，固请服重。
成帝哀而许之，故徙封会稽王，拜散骑常侍。
九年，迁右将军，加侍中。
咸康六年，进抚军将军，领秘书监。
建元元年夏五月癸丑，康帝诏曰： 太常职奉天地，兼掌宗庙，其为任也，可谓重矣。
是以古今选建，未尝不妙简时望，兼之儒雅。
会稽王叔履尚清虚，志道无倦，优游上列，讽议朝肆。其领太常本官如故。
永和元年，崇德太后临朝，进位抚军大将军、录尚书六条事。
二年，骠骑何充卒，崇德太后诏帝专总万机。
八年，进位司徒，固让不拜。
穆帝始冠，帝稽首归政，不许。
废帝即位，以琅邪王绝嗣，复徙封琅邪，而封王子昌明为会稽王。
帝固让，故虽封琅邪而不去会稽之号。
太和元年，进位丞相、录尚书事，入朝不趋，赞拜不名，剑履上殿，给羽葆鼓吹班剑六十人，又固让。
及废帝废，皇太后诏曰： 丞相、录尚书、会稽王体自中宗，明德劭令，英秀玄虚，神栖事外。
以具瞻允塞，故阿衡三世。
translation: 
Emperor Jianwen's name was Yu, with the courtesy name Daowan, and he was the youngest son of Emperor Yuan.
He was very smart when he was young and was loved by Emperor Yuan.
When Guo Pu saw him, he said to people: This person must be the one who revitalizes the Jin Dynasty.
When Sima Yu grew up, he was pure and had few desires, and was especially good at talking about mysteries.
In the first year of Yongchang, Emperor Yuan issued an edict saying: King Wu Xiangong and King Xiankao Gong ruled Langye.
Father and son have been passed down from generation to generation, but the current heir has not set up a ceremony or presided over the ceremony. I am often sad about this.
His son Sima Yu is kind, wise, resourceful and generous, and can serve his ancestors respectfully to comfort his endless kindness.
Sima Yu was granted the title of King of Langxie, and his official residences were still Kuaiji and Xuancheng.
In the first year of Xianhe, Sima Yu's biological mother, Mrs. Zheng, passed away.
Emperor Jian Wen was only seven years old at the time. He cried blood when he cried to offer sacrifices to his biological mother, and insisted on wearing mourning clothes.
Emperor Cheng took pity on him and agreed to his request, so he changed his title to King of Kuaiji and assisted Sanqi as a regular attendant.
In the ninth year, he was promoted to general on the right and was awarded the title of Shizhong.
In the sixth year of Xiankang's reign, he was promoted to general of the Fu army and concurrently served as secretary and supervisor.
In the fifth month of Guichou in the summer of the first year of Jianyuan, Emperor Kang issued an edict saying: Taichang felt that the responsibility of worshiping heaven and earth and taking care of the ancestral temple can be said to be very great.
Therefore, in selecting roles throughout the ages, people who are both prestigious and knowledgeable have been chosen.
The King of Kuaiji advocated purity, worked tirelessly to pursue the Tao, took his time in high-ranking positions, and satirized the government and the public, so he allowed the King of Kuaiji to concurrently lead Taichang, and his original official position remained unchanged.
In the first year of Yonghe, Empress Dowager Chongde came to the court, and Sima Yujin was promoted to the general of the Fu army and recorded six things in Shangshu.
In the second year, the knight He Chong died, and Empress Dowager Chongde issued an edict to let Emperor Jianwen handle state affairs exclusively.
In eight years, he was promoted to Situ, but Sima Yu firmly refused.
When Emperor Mu began to perform the crowning ceremony, Emperor Jianwen asked for the return of state affairs, but Emperor Mu refused.
After the deposed emperor came to the throne, because King Langxie had no heir, he changed the title of Emperor Jianwen to King Langxie and made his son Sima Ming King of Kuaiji.
Emperor Jianwen tried his best to refuse, so although he was granted the title of King Langxie, he did not remove the title of King of Kuaiji.
In the first year of Taihe, when he was promoted to prime minister and recorded ministerial affairs, he did not need to step forward when entering the court, and did not need to say his name when paying homage. He could wear a sword and wear shoes when going to the palace. He was provided with an honor guard of sixty Yu Bao's advocating classes and swords. Emperor Jian Wen strongly recommended it.
After the deposed emperor was deposed, the empress dowager issued an edict saying: The prime minister, Lu Shangshu, and King Kuaiji are the descendants of Zhongzong. They have good virtues, noble empresses, and empresses advocate purity and emptiness, and their magic is manifested in their conduct.
Because of his position as an assistant to important ministers, he guided three generations of emperors to preside over state affairs.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
道化宣流，人望攸归，为日已久。
宜从天人之心，以统皇极。
主者明依旧典，以时施行。 于是大司马桓温率百官进太极前殿，具乘舆法驾，奉迎帝于会稽邸，于朝堂变服，著平巾帻单衣，东向拜受玺绶。
咸安元年冬十一月己酉，即皇帝位。
桓温出次中堂，令兵屯卫。乙卯，温奏废太宰、武陵王晞及子总。
诏魏郡太守毛安之帅所领宿卫殿内，改元为咸安。
庚戌，使兼太尉周颐告于太庙。辛亥，桓温遣弟秘逼新蔡王晃诣西堂，自列与太宰、武陵王晞等谋反。帝对之流涕，温皆收付廷尉。
癸丑，杀东海二子及其母。
初，帝以冲虚简贵，历宰三世，温素所敬惮。
及初即位，温乃撰辞欲自陈述，帝引见，对之悲泣，温惧不能言。
至是，有司承其旨，奏诛武陵王晞，帝不许。
温固执至于再三，帝手诏报曰： 若晋祚灵长，公便宜奉行前诏。
如其大运去矣，请避贤路。
温览之，流汗变色，不复敢言。
乙卯，废晞及其三子，徙于新安。
丙辰，放新葵王晁于衡阳。
戊午，诏曰： 王室多故，穆哀早世，皇胤夙迁，神器无主。
东海王以母弟近属，入纂大统，嗣位经年，昏暗乱常，人伦亏丧，大祸将及，则我祖宗之灵靡知所托。
皇太后深惧皇基，时定大计。
大司马因顺天人，协同神略，亲帅群后，恭承明命。
云雾既除，皇极载清，乃顾朕躬，仰承弘绪。
虽伊尹之宁殷朝，博陆之安汉室，无以尚也。
朕以寡德，猥居元首，实惧眇然，不克负荷，战战兢兢，罔知攸济。
translation: 
It has been a long time since moral education spread and everyone expected it to return.
We should obey the will of God and the will of the people and ascend to the throne.
The people in charge clearly followed the regulations at that time and implemented them on time. So Grand Sima Huanwen led all the officials into the Taiji front hall, prepared the emperor's car, and went to the palace of King Kuaiji to greet Emperor Jian Wen. He changed his clothes in the court hall, wearing a plain scarf and single clothes, and bowed to the east to accept the seal ribbon.
In the eleventh month of the winter of the first year of Xian'an, Sima Yu ascended the throne as emperor.
Huan Wen left the palace and stayed in the middle hall, ordering the troops to garrison. On Yi Mao, Wen sent a petition to the emperor to depose Sima Xi, the Grand Prime Minister and King of Wuling, and his son, General Sima.
The emperor ordered Marshal Mao An, the prefect of Wei County, to lead his troops to guard the palace and change the name to Xian'an.
On the day of Xinhai, Huan Wen sent his younger brother Huan Mi to force Xincai King Sima Huang to go to the West Hall, forcing him to tell Dazai, Wuling King Sima Xi and others that he was conspiring against him. The emperor shed tears towards Sima Huang, and Huan Wen arrested Sima Huang and others and handed them over to the Tingwei.
On Guichou day, he killed the two sons of King Donghai and their mother.
At the beginning, the emperor was indifferent, pure, simple, arrogant and noble. He served as prime minister for three dynasties. Huan Wen always respected and feared him.
When the emperor received Huan Wen, he cried sadly to him. Huan Wen was so scared that he could not speak.
At this time, some officials adhered to Huan Wen's will and petitioned to kill Sima Xi, the king of Wuling, but the emperor refused.
Huan Wen insisted again and again, and the emperor personally issued an edict in reply: If the Jin Dynasty lasts for a long time, Ming Gong should implement the previous edict.
If the great fortune of the Jin Dynasty is over, then please let me make way for the sages.
Huan Wen looked at it and was so frightened that he broke into a cold sweat, his face changed, and he stopped talking.
On Yimao day, Sima Xi and his three sons were deposed and exiled to Xin'an.
On Bingchen day, Sima Chao, the new king of Cai, was exiled to Hengyang.
On Wuwu Day, an edict was issued saying: The royal family is in trouble. Emperors Mu and Ai passed away prematurely, the imperial line has long been changed, and the throne has no owner.
The King of the East China Sea is a close relative of the emperor's mother and brother. He has inherited the throne after entering the dynasty. He has been in charge for many years. He has traveled far and wide, disrupting the dynasty's agenda. Human relations have been corrupted. A great disaster is about to come. I don't know where to place the gods of my ancestors.
The Empress Dowager was deeply worried about the royal family's foundation and made a big plan in time.
Da Sima followed the will of heaven and man, coordinated with the gods' general strategy, personally led the princes, and respectfully accepted the orders of the saints.
Now that the clouds and mist have been cleared away and the royal family is clear, they will take care of me and inherit the great achievements.
Even if Yi Yin stabilized the Yin Dynasty and Bo Lu stabilized the Han Dynasty, they could not surpass them.
Because of my meager virtues, I temporarily occupy the throne. I am really worried that my vision is narrow and I will not be able to shoulder the important responsibilities. I am trembling and trembling, not knowing how to succeed.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
思与兆庶更始，其大赦天下，大酺五日，增文武位二等，孝顺忠贞鳏寡孤独米人五斛。
己未，赐温军三万人，人布一匹，米一斛。
庚申，加大司马桓温为丞相，不受。
辛酉，温旋自白石，因镇姑孰。
以冠军将军毛武生都督荆州之沔中、扬州之义城诸军事。
十二月戊子，诏以京都有经年之储，权停一年之运。
庚寅，废东海王奕为海西公，食邑四千户。
辛卯，初荐酃渌酒于太庙。
二年春正月辛丑，百济、林邑王各遣使贡方物。
二月，苻坚伐慕容桓于辽东，灭之。
三月丁酉，诏曰： 朕居阿衡三世，不能济彼时雍，乃至海西失德，殆倾皇祚。赖祖宗灵祗之德，皇太后淑体应期，籓辅忠贤，百官戮力，用能荡气务于昊苍，耀晨辉于宇宙。
遂以眇身，托于王公之上，思赖群贤，以弼其阙。
夫敦本息末，抑绝华竞，使清浊异流，能否殊贯，官无秕政，士无谤讟，不有惩劝，则德礼焉施？
且强寇未殄，劳役未息，自非军国戎祀之耍，其华饰烦费之用皆省之。
夫肥遁穷谷之贤，滑泥扬波之士，虽抗志玄霄，潜默幽岫，贪屈高尚之道，以隆协赞之美，孰与自足山水，栖迟丘壑，徇匹夫之洁，而忘兼济之大邪？
古人不借贤于曩代，朕所以虚想于今日。
内外百官，各勤所司，使善无不达，恶无不闻，令诗人元素餐之刺，而吾获虚心之求焉。
癸丑，诏曰： 吾承祖宗洪基，而昧于政道，惧不能允厘天工，克隆先业，夕惕惟忧，若涉泉冰。
赖宰辅忠德，道济伊望，群后竭诚，协契断金，内外尽匡翼之规，文武致匪躬之节，冀因斯道，终克弘济。每念干戈未戢，公私疲悴，籓镇有疆理之务，征戍怀东山之勤，或白首戎阵，忠劳未叙，或行役弥久，担石靡储，何尝不昧旦晨兴，夜分忘寝。
虽未能抚而巡之，且欲达其此心。
可遣大使诣大司马，并问方伯，逮于边戍，宣诏大飨，求其所安。
又筹量赐给，悉令周普。 乙卯，诏曰： 往事故之后，百度未充，群僚常俸，并皆寡约，盖随时之义也。
然退食在朝，而禄不代耕，非经通之制。
今资储渐丰，可筹量增俸。
translation: 
Missing and renewing the world with millions of people, I decided to grant amnesty to the world. The people will have a feast for five days. The rank of civil and military officials will be increased to the second level. Those who are filial and loyal, the old, weak, sick and disabled, and those who have no one to support them, will be rewarded with five husks of rice per person.
At the end of the day, Huan Wen was rewarded with thirty thousand soldiers, each with a piece of cloth and a bushel of rice.
On the Gengshen day, the great Sima Huanwen was appointed as the prime minister, but Huanwen did not accept it.
On Xinyou day, Huan Wen came back from Baishi and guarded Gushu.
The champion general Mao Wusheng was appointed to command the military affairs in Miozhong in Jingzhou and Yicheng in Yangzhou.
On December Wuzi, the emperor issued an edict that because Kyoto had large reserves of supplies, he had the right to stop transportation for one year.
On the Gengyin day, Sima Yi, the king of the East China Sea, was deposed as the Duke of Haixi, with a settlement of 4,000 households.
On Xin Mao Day, Lu wine was offered to the Imperial Ancestral Temple for the first time.
In the spring of the second year of the first month of Xinchou, the kings of Baekje and Linyi each sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In February, Fu Jian went to Liaodong to attack Murong Huan and destroyed Murong Huan.
On Dingyou in March, an edict was issued saying: I have been in the position of prime minister for three dynasties and cannot bring peace to the world. However, Haixi Gongxin lost his virtue and almost overturned the royal family. Relying on the kindness of the ancestors and gods, the empress dowager's virtues followed the destiny, and the loyal and virtuous officials who assisted Bi were able to sweep away the anger in the sky and shine the glory of the morning sun in the universe.
So I entrusted my broken body to the prince, thinking of relying on the virtuous ministers to correct my faults.
Reinforce one's roots, curb ostentation and extravagance, separate thirst and thirst, distinguish competent from incompetent, officials will not have bad political affairs, and scholars will not criticize. If there is no punishment and qualifications, how can morality and etiquette be implemented?
Moreover, the powerful enemy has not yet been eliminated, and labor has not ceased. Unless it is important matters such as military affairs, state affairs, war, and sacrifices, all the gorgeous decorations and complicated expenses should be reduced.
The wise men who retreat in the deep valleys and the scholars who follow the ups and downs of the world, even if they insist on the ambition as high as the sky, live in seclusion in the deep valleys, and want to revitalize the reputation of cooperation with noble moral principles, how can they be compared to being complacent among the mountains and rivers, hiding in the deep mountains and valleys, following the nobility of ordinary people, but forgetting the great righteousness of benefiting the world?
The ancients were not accustomed to borrowing from the sages of previous generations, so I have false hopes for today.
Hundreds of officials, both internal and external, worked diligently on their affairs, so that all good deeds were spread and all bad deeds were reported, so that the poet did not have the irony of a vegetarian meal, and I also gained the reputation of being an open-minded visitor.
On the day of Guichou, an edict was issued saying: I inherited the great foundation of my ancestors, but I am not good at running the country. I am afraid that I will not be able to manage the cause given by God and revitalize the foundation of my ancestors. I worry all day long, just like wading through a river.
It all depends on the loyalty and concerted efforts of the auxiliary ministers. The ministers at home and abroad tried their best to plan and assist. The civil and military officials showed their integrity regardless of themselves. I hope that if things go on like this, we can finally save the world. Whenever I think that the war has not stopped, the country and the people are tired and distressed, and the vassal towns are defended. The important task of guarding the border is that the soldiers guarding the border have the worries described in the poem "Dongshan". Some of them have been fighting on the battlefield until they are old, and their loyalty and hard work have not yet been rewarded. Some of them have served for a long time, but they don't even have food reserves at home. Why don't they get up before dawn and can't sleep in the middle of the night.
Although I cannot comfort and visit them personally, I also hope to convey my feelings to them.
Ambassadors were sent to express condolences to the Grand Sima and local governors, and went to the border garrison to read out edicts, reward the soldiers, and make them feel at ease.
He also rewarded them according to regulations so that everyone could know about them. On Yimao day, an edict was issued saying: "After the previous incident, all kinds of items were insufficient, and the officials' usual salaries were very meager. This was decided at any time."
However, in order to reduce meals in court, salary cannot replace work. This is not a normal system.
Now that shopping reserves are becoming increasingly scarce, you can increase your salary appropriately.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
驺虞见豫章。
夏四月，徙海西公于吴县西柴里。
追贬庾后曰夫人。
六月，遣使拜百济王余句为镇东将军，领乐浪太守。
戊子，前护军将军庚希举兵反，自海陵入京口，晋陵太守卞眈奔于曲阿。
秋七月壬辰，桓温遣东海内史周少孙讨希，擒之，斩于建康市。
己未，立会稽王昌明为皇太子，皇子道子为琅邪王，领会稽内史。
是日，帝崩于东堂，时年五十三。
葬高平陵，庙号太宗。
遗诏以桓温辅政，依诸葛亮、王导故事。
帝少有风仪，善容止，留心典籍，不以居处为意，凝尘满席，湛如也。
尝与桓温及武陵王晞同载游版桥，温遽令鸣鼓吹角，车驰卒奔，欲观其所为。
晞大恐，求下车，而帝安然无惧色，温由此惮服。
温既仗文武之任，屡建大功，加以废立，威振内外。
帝虽处尊位，拱默守道而已，常惧废黜。
先是，荧惑入太微，寻而海西废。
及帝登阼，荧惑又入太微，帝甚恶焉。
时中书郎郗超在直，帝乃引入，谓曰： 命之修短，本所不计，故当无复近日事邪！
超曰： 大司马臣温方内固社稷，外恢经略，非常之事，臣以百口保之。
及超请急省其父，帝谓之曰： 致意尊公，家国之事，遂至于此！
由吾不能以道匡卫，愧叹之深，言何能喻。
因咏庾阐诗云 志士痛朝危，忠臣哀主辱 ，遂泣下沾襟。
帝虽神识恬暢，而无济世大略，故谢安称为惠帝之流，清谈差胜耳。
沙门支道林尝言 会岙有远体而无远神 。
谢灵运迹其行事，亦以为赧献之辈云。
孝武皇帝讳曜，字昌明，简文帝第三子也。
兴宁三年七月甲申，初封会稽王。
咸安二年秋七月己未，立为皇太子。
是日，简文帝崩，太子即皇帝位。
诏曰： 朕以不造，奄丁闵凶，号天扣地。靡知所诉。
藐然幼冲，眇若缀旒，深惟社稷之重，大惧不克负荷。
仰凭祖宗之灵，积德之祀。先帝淳风玄化，遗咏在民。
translation: 
Monsters appear in Yuzhang.
In April of summer, Duke Haixi was transferred to Xichaili, Wu County.
After Yu was demoted, she was said to be his wife.
In June, an envoy was sent to consecrate King Yugou of Baekje as General of Zhendong and also as governor of Lelang.
On the day of Wuzi, the former guard general Geng hope led his troops to rebel and entered Jingkou from Hailing. Bian Wan, the prefect of Jinling, fled to Qu'a.
In the seventh month of Autumn, at Renchen, Huan Wen sent Zhou Shaosun, the internal historian of the East China Sea, to attack Geng hope, captured him, and killed him in the bustling city of Jiankang.
At the end of the year, Sima Changming, the king of Kuaiji, was made the crown prince, and the prince Sima Daozi was made king Langxie, and he also took charge of the internal history of Kuaiji.
On the same day, the emperor died in the East Hall at the age of fifty-three.
He was buried in Gaoping Mausoleum, with the temple name Taizong.
The posthumous edict asked Huan Wen to assist in state affairs, according to the story of Zhuge Liang and Wang Dao.
When Emperor Jian Wen was young, he was graceful and well behaved. He paid attention to the classics and did not care about his living environment. Even though his seat was covered with dust, he was still happy.
Once while visiting Banqiao with Huan Wen and Sima Xi, King of Wuling, Huan Wen suddenly ordered the drums to be beaten and the horns to be blown, and the carriages and horses suddenly galloped quickly, wanting to see how the two of them performed.
Sima Xi was very frightened and asked to get out of the car, but Emperor Jian Wen looked calm and did not panic at all. Heng Wen was therefore in awe of him.
Huan Wen relied on his civil and military positions to achieve great achievements many times. In addition, he abolished the old emperor and established a new emperor, which made him powerful both inside and outside the court.
Although Emperor Jian Wen was on the throne, he could only do nothing and stick to the normal way. He was often afraid of being deposed.
Previously, the disaster star entered Taiwei, and soon Haixi Gong was deposed.
When Emperor Jian Wen ascended the throne, the disaster star entered Taiwei again, which Emperor Jian Wen hated very much.
At that time, Zhongshu Lang Xichao was on duty, so the emperor called him in and told him that the length of life is of course not considered, so there should be no more abolishment of the establishment of the previous days!
Xi Chao said: Grand Sima Huanwen is consolidating the country internally and planning extraordinary things externally, and I will use my whole family to guarantee it.
When Xi Chao asked for a quick visit to his father, the emperor said to him: Please convey my greetings to your father, the country's affairs have reached this point!
Because I cannot use the right way to rectify the country, I am so ashamed that words cannot express it.
So he chanted Yu Chan's poems. The patriots were saddened by the crisis of the court, and the loyal ministers were saddened by the humiliation of the monarch. In the end, they wet their clothes with tears.
Although Emperor Jian Wen was knowledgeable, he had no grand strategy to save the world, so Xie An called him someone like Emperor Hui, who was just a bit better at talking.
The monk Zhi Daolin once said that the King of Kuaiji had a lofty appearance but no lofty spirit.
Xie Lingyun traced his actions and believed that he was a figure like King Nan of Zhou and King Xian of Zhou.
Emperor Xiaowu's name was Yao and his courtesy name was Changming. He was the third son of Emperor Jianwen Sima Yu.
On June 12, the third year of Xingning, he was granted the title of King of Kuaiji.
On July 28, the second autumn of the second year of Xian'an, he was established as the crown prince.
On this day, Emperor Jianwen died, and the prince became emperor.
The edict was issued saying: Due to my misfortune, I suddenly encountered a funeral and cried out to heaven and earth, not knowing what to complain about.
He was young and weak, and the country was in danger. He deeply felt the importance of the country and worried that he would not be able to shoulder the important responsibilities.
Relying on the ancestors to show their spirits, accumulate virtues and enjoy sacrifices, the customs of the late emperors are honest and simple, and the moral teachings of the saints are spread among the people.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
宰辅英贤，勋隆德盛。
顾命之托，实赖匡训。
群后率职，百僚勤政。
冀孤弱之躬有寄，皇极之基不坠。
先恩遗惠，播于四海，思弘余润，以康黎庶。
其大赦天下，与民更始。
九月甲寅，追尊皇妣会稽王妃曰顺皇后。
冬十月丁卯，葬简文皇帝于高平陵。
十一月甲午，妖贼卢悚晨人殿庭，游击将军毛安之等讨擒之。
是岁，三吴大旱，人多饿死，诏所在振给。
苻坚陷仇池，执秦州刺史杨世。
宁康元年春正月己丑朔，改元。
二月，大司马桓温来朝。
三月癸丑，诏除丹阳竹格等四桁税。
夏五月，旱。
秋七月己亥，使持节、侍中、都督中外诸军事、丞相、录尚书、大司马、扬州牧、平北将军、徐兗二州刺史、南郡公桓温薨。
庚戌，进右将军桓豁为征西将军。
以江州刺史桓冲为中军将军、都督扬豫江三州诸军事、扬州刺史，镇姑孰。
八月壬子，崇德太后临朝摄政。
九月，苻坚将杨安寇成都。
丙申，以尚书仆射王彪之为尚书令，吏部尚书谢安为尚书仆射，吴国内史刁彝为北中郎将、徐兗二州刺史，镇广陵。
复置光禄勋、大司农、少府官。
冬十月，西平公张天锡贡方物。
十一月，苻坚将杨安陷梓潼及梁、益二州，刺史周仲孙帅骑五千南遁。
二年春正月癸未朔，大赦。
追封谥故会稽世子郁为临川献王。
己酉，北中郎将、徐兗二州刺史刁彝卒。
二月癸丑，以丹阳尹王坦之为北中郎将、徐兗二州刺史。
丁巳，有星孛于女虚。
三月丙戌，彗星见于氐。
夏四月壬戌，皇太后诏曰： 顷玄象忒愆，上天表异，仰观斯变，震惧于怀。
夫因变致休，自古之道，朕敢不克意复心，以思厥中？
又三吴奥壤，股肱望郡，而水旱并臻，百姓失业，夙夜惟忧，不能忘怀，宜时拯恤，救其雕困。
三吴义兴、晋陵及会稽遭水之县尤甚者，全除一年租布，其次听除半年，受振贷者即以赐之。
五月，蜀人张育自号蜀王，帅众围成都，遣使称籓。
translation: 
The prime minister is wise and virtuous, with high honor and great virtue.
Accepting the death sentence depends on everyone's correction and instruction.
The ministers perform their duties diligently, and all officials are diligent in political affairs.
I hope that the weak king will have some sustenance and the inheritance of the ancestors will not be destroyed.
The blessings left by our ancestors have spread to the world. I want to carry forward the remaining blessings and make the people healthy.
He will grant amnesty to the whole world and eradicate the old and establish the new with the people.
On September 24, the Queen Mother, Princess Kuaiji, was posthumously given the title of Queen Shun.
On the eighth day of October, Emperor Jianwen was buried in Gaoping Mausoleum.
On the fifth day of November, the demon thief Lu Chu entered the imperial palace early in the morning, and guerrilla general Mao Anzhi and others captured him.
This year, there was a severe drought in Sanwu, and many people died of starvation. An order was issued to provide relief to the drought-stricken areas.
Fu Jian captured Qiuchi and captured Yang Shi, the governor of Qinzhou.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Ningkang, the new year name was changed.
In February, the great Sima Huanwen came to pay homage.
On March 26, an edict was issued to exempt four bridges, including Danyang and Zhuge, from taxes.
In May, there was a drought.
On the 14th day of the seventh month, the envoys Chijie, Shizhong, Commander-in-Chief of the Chinese and foreign military forces, Prime Minister, Lu Shangshu, Da Sima, Yangzhou Mu, Pingbei General, Xuzhou Yanzhou Governor, and Nanjun Gong Huan Wen died.
On the 25th, Huan Huo, the right general, was promoted to the general of conquering the west.
Huan Chong, the governor of the state, was appointed as the general of the Chinese army, the governor of Yangzhou, Yuzhou, and Jiangzhou military forces, and the governor of Yangzhou to guard Gushu.
On August 27, Empress Dowager Chongde came to the court to take charge of the affairs of the court.
In September, Fu Jian's general Yang An invaded Chengdu.
On the twelfth day, Wang Biaozhi, the Minister of Public Affairs, was appointed as the Minister of Public Affairs, Xie An, the Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, was appointed as the Minister of Public Affairs, and Diao Yi, the Minister of Wu Dynasty, was appointed as Beizhonglang general and Yanzhou governor of Xuzhou to guard Guangling.
Re-establish Guang Luxun, Da Sinong and Shaofu officials.
In October, Duke Zhang Tianxi of Xiping paid tribute to local products.
In November, Fu Jian's general Yang An captured Zitong, Liangzhou and Yizhou, and the governor Zhou Zhongsun led 5,000 cavalry to escape south.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the second year of Ningkang, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
Sima Yu, the eldest son of the former King of Kuaiji, was posthumously named King Xian of Linchuan.
On the 27th, General Beizhong Lang and Diao Yi, the governor of Xuzhou and Yanzhou, died.
On the first day of February, Wang Tanzhi, Yin of Danyang Prefecture, was appointed Beizhonglang General and Xu Yanzhou Governor.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, a comet appeared in the constellation Nuxu.
On the fifth day of March, the comet appeared in the constellation Di.
On April 11, the Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: Recently, the celestial phenomena have been out of order, and the sky has shown changes. Looking up at these changes, I feel shocked and worried in my heart.
Being able to bring about beauty due to strange moves has been the way since ancient times. How dare I not pay attention and do my best to consider appropriate measures?
In addition, Sanwu is a close place, as important as a county. However, floods and droughts are coming, and the people are unemployed. I worry day and night and cannot forget that I should rescue them in time and save them from poverty and poverty.
Counties such as Yixing, Jinling, and Kuaiji in Sanwu that suffered particularly serious floods were completely exempted from rent and taxes for one year. Other counties were allowed to be exempted from rent and taxes for half a year, and those who received relief loans were rewarded.
In May, Zhang Yu, a native of Shu, claimed to be the king of Shu, led his followers to besiege Chengdu, and sent envoys claiming to be ministers of Fanping.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
秋七月，凉州地震，山崩。
苻坚将邓羌攻张育，灭之。
八月，以长秋将建，权停婚姻。
九月丁丑，有星孛于天市。
冬十一月己酉，天门蜑贼攻郡，太守王匪死之，征西将军桓豁遣师讨平之。
长城人钱步射、钱弘等作乱，吴兴太守硃序讨平之。
癸酉，镇远将军桓石虔破苻坚将姚苌于垫江。
三年春正月辛亥，大赦。
夏五月丙午，北中郎将、徐兗二州刺史、蓝田侯王坦之卒。
甲寅，以中军将军、扬州刺史桓冲为镇北将军、徐州刺史，镇丹徒，尚书仆射谢安领扬州刺史。
秋八月癸巳，立皇后王氏，大赦，加文武位一等。
九月，帝讲《孝经》。
冬十月癸酉朔，日有蚀之。十二月癸未，神兽门灾。
甲申，皇太后诏曰： 顷日蚀告变，水旱不适，虽克己思救，未尽其方。
其赐百姓穷者米，人五斛。
癸巳，帝释奠于中堂，祠孔子，以颜回配。
太元元年春正月壬寅朔，帝加元服，见于太庙。
皇太后归政。
甲辰，大赦，改元。
丙午，帝始临朝。
以征西将军桓豁为征西大将军，领军将军郗愔为镇军大将军，中军将军桓冲为车骑将军，加尚书仆射谢安中书监、录尚书事。
甲子，谒建平等四陵。
夏五月癸丑，地震。
甲寅，诏曰： 顷者上天垂监，谴告屡彰，朕有惧焉，震惕于心。
思所以议狱缓死，赦过宥罪，庶因大变，与之更始。
于是大赦，增文武位各一等。
六月，封河间王钦子范之为章武王。
秋七月，苻坚将苟苌陷凉州，虏刺史张天锡，尽有其地。
乙巳，除度田收租之制，公王以下口税米三斛，蠲在役之身。
冬十月，移准北流人于淮南。
十一月己巳朔，日有蚀之。诏太官撤膳。
十二月，苻坚使其将苻洛攻代，执代王涉翼犍。
二年春正月，继绝世，绍功臣。
三月，以兗州刺史硃序为南中郎将、梁州刺史、监沔中诸军，镇襄阳。
translation: 
In July, there was an earthquake in Liangzhou and a mountain collapsed.
Fu Jian's general Deng Qiang attacked Zhang Yu and destroyed him.
In August, due to the establishment of a queen, civil marriages were temporarily suspended.
On September 29, a comet invaded the constellation Ama.
On the second day of the eleventh month, the Qiao bandits from Tianmen attacked the county. The prefect Wang bandits died in the battle. Huan Huo, the general of the Western Conquest, sent troops to attack and pacify him.
Qian Bushe, Qian Hong and others from the Great Wall rebelled, but Zhu Xu, the prefect of Wuxing, suppressed them.
On the 26th, Zhenyuan general You Qian defeated Fu Jian's general Yao Chang in Dianjiang.
On the fifth day of the first lunar month of the third year of Ningkang, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the second day of the fifth lunar month, Beizhong Langjiang, Xu Yan, the Governor of the Second Prefecture, and Lantian Marquis Wang Tan died.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Huan Chong, the general of the Chinese army and the governor of Yangzhou, was appointed as the general of Zhenbei and the governor of Xuzhou to guard Dantu. Shangshu Pushe Xie An was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou.
On August 20th, Wang was made empress, a general amnesty was granted to the world, and all civil and military officials were increased to one rank.
In September, the emperor lectured on the "Book of Filial Piety".
On the first day of October, there is a solar eclipse. On December 12, the Divine Beast Gate was hit by fire.
On the 13th, the Crown Prince issued an edict saying: Recently there has been a solar eclipse, and there have been floods and droughts. Although we have tried our best to remedy the situation, the methods are incomplete.
Five bushels of rice are now given to each of the poor people.
On the 22nd, the emperor personally worshiped Confucius in the middle hall, accompanied by Yan Hui.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Taiyuan, the emperor crowned him and paid homage to him in the Ancestral Temple.
The Empress Dowager returned the affairs of state.
On the third day of the Lunar New Year, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country and the year name was changed.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, the emperor came to court to listen to the government.
Huan Huo, the general who conquered the west, was appointed as the general who conquered the west, Xi Yiyin, the leading general, was appointed as the general of the town army, Huan Chong, the general of the central army, was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry.
On the 23rd, the emperor paid homage to the four emperors' tombs in Jianping.
May 14th, earthquake.
On the 15th, the edict was issued: Recently, heaven has shown signs and condemned and warned of disasters many times. I am worried and shocked in my heart.
Considering reconsidering the lawsuit, suspending the death penalty, and pardoning the crimes, perhaps there will be a big change and a new beginning.
So a general amnesty was granted to the whole world, and all civil and military officials were given a new title.
In June, Sima Fanzhi, son of Sima Qin, king of Hejian, was granted the title of King Zhangwu.
In July, Fu Jian's general Gou Chang captured Liangzhou, captured Zhang Tianxi, the governor, and occupied all of Liangzhou.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, the system of measuring land and collecting rent was abolished, and everyone below the prince paid three hu of tax rice, except those in service.
In October, the floating population in Huaibei was moved to Huainan.
On the first day of November, there was a solar eclipse, and the eunuchs were ordered to reduce the imperial food.
In December, Fu Jian sent his general Fu Luo to attack Dai and captured the king of Dai, She Yiqian.
In the first month of the second year of Taiyuan, the extinct ancestral sacrifices were restored, and the descendants who had been cut off were continued, so that the descendants of the heroes could inherit the ancestral inheritance.
In March, Zhu Xu, the governor of Yanzhou, was appointed as the general of Nanzhonglang, the governor of Liangzhou, and the troops of Jianmiozhong to guard Xiangyang.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
闰月壬午，地震。
甲申，暴风，折木发屋。
夏四月己酉，雨雹。
五月丁丑，地震。
六月己巳，暴风，扬沙石。
林邑贡方物。
秋七月乙卯，老人星见。
八月壬辰，四骑将军桓冲来朝。
丁未，以尚书仆射谢安为司徒。
丙辰，使持节、都督荆梁宁益交广六州诸军事、荆州刺史、征西大将军桓豁卒。
冬十月辛丑，以车骑将军桓冲都督荆江梁益宁交广七州诸军事、领护南蛮校尉、荆州刺史，尚书王蕴为徐州刺史、督江南晋陵诸军，征西司马谢玄为兗州刺史、广陵相、监江北诸军。
壬寅。散骑常侍、左光禄大夫、尚书令王彪之卒。
十二月庚寅，以尚书王劭为尚书仆射。
三年春二月乙巳，作新宫，帝移居会稽王邸。
三月乙丑，雷雨，暴风，发屋折木。
夏五月庚午，陈留王曹恢薨。
六月，大水。
秋七月辛巳，帝入新宫。
乙酉，老人星见南方。
四年春正月辛酉，大赦，郡县遭水旱者减租税。
丙子，谒建平等七陵。
二月戊午，苻坚使其子丕攻陷襄阳，执南中郎将硃序。
又陷顺阳。
三月，大疫。
壬戌，诏曰： 狡寇纵逸，籓守倾没，疆埸之虞，事兼平日。
其内外众官，各悉心戮力，以康庶事。
又年谷不登，百姓多匮。
其诏御所供，事从俭约，九亲供给，众官廪俸，权可减半。
凡诸役费，自非军国事要，皆宜停省，以周时务。
癸未，使右将军毛武生帅师伐蜀。
夏四月，苻坚将韦钟陷魏兴，太守吉挹死之。
五月，苻坚将句难、彭超陷盱眙、高密内史毛璪之为贼所执。
六月，大旱。
戊子，征虏将军谢玄及超、难战于君川，大破之。
translation: 
On March 19th, there was an earthquake.
On the 21st, a strong wind blew, breaking trees and overturning houses.
On April 16, there was hail.
On May 14th, there was an earthquake.
One day in June, there was a strong wind and the sand and rocks were flying.
Linyi paid tribute to local products.
On a certain day in July, Canopus appeared.
On the first day of August, the chariot and cavalry general Huan Chong came to see him.
On the 16th, Shangshu Pushe Xie An was appointed as Situ.
On the 25th, the envoy Chijie was in charge of the military affairs of the six states of Jing, Liang, Ning, Yi, Jiao, and Guang. The governor of Jingzhou, General Huan Huo, died in the expedition to the west.
On October 11, General Huan Chong, the chariot and cavalry general, took over the military affairs of the seven states of Jing, Jiang, Liang, Yi, Ning, Jiao, and Guang. He led and protected the Nanman captains and the governor of Jingzhou. Wang Yun, the minister, was the governor of Xuzhou and supervised the troops in Jinling in the south of the Yangtze River. Xie Xuan, the commander of the Western Army, was appointed the governor of Yanzhou and the prime minister of Guangling, and supervised the armies north of the Yangtze River.
On the twelfth day, Sanqi Changshi, Zuo Guanglu, and Shangshuling Wang Biao died.
On the first day of the twelfth lunar month, Wang Shao, the minister, was appointed as the servant of the minister.
On February 17, the third year of Taiyuan, the construction of the new palace began, and the emperor moved to the palace of Prince Kuaiji.
On the seventh day of March, there were thunderstorms and strong winds, which broke trees and destroyed houses.
On May 13th, Cao Hui, king of Chenliu, died.
In June, there was a flood.
On July 25, the emperor moved to the newly built palace.
On the 29th, Canopus appeared in the south.
On the eighth day of the first lunar month in the fourth year of Taiyuan, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and counties and counties suffering from floods and droughts were exempted from rent and tax.
On the 23rd, the emperor paid homage to the seven emperors' tombs in Jianping.
In February, Fu Jian sent his son Fu Pi to capture Xiangyang and captured Nan Zhonglang general Zhu Xu.
They also captured Shunyang.
In March, there was a major epidemic.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, an edict was issued saying: The cunning enemy invaders are arrogant and indulgent, the defenders are overthrown, and the battlefield is more troublesome than usual.
Various officials, both internal and external, work together to make everything prosperous.
In addition, the grain harvest was not good, and the people were in many shortages.
The royal supplies provided by the imperial edict are all frugal. The supplies provided by the nine relatives, and the salaries of the officials are reduced by half.
All other labor expenses, except for military and national affairs, should be stopped or reduced to support current major events.
On the first day of April, the right general Mao Wusheng was sent to lead an army to attack Shu.
This month Fu Jian's general Wei Zhong captured Wei Xing, and the prefect Ji Yi died in the battle.
In May, Fu Jian's generals were all in trouble, Peng Chao captured Xuyi, and Mao Zhi, the internal secretary of Gaomi, was captured alive by the bandits.
In June, there was a severe drought.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, generals Xie Xuan, Peng Chao, and Ji Nan fought in Junchuan and defeated the enemy.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
秋八月丁亥，以左将军王蕴为尚书仆射。
乙未，暴风，扬沙石。
九月，盗杀安太守傅湛。
冬十二月己酉朔，日有蚀之。
五年春正月乙巳，谒崇平陵。
夏四月，大旱。
癸酉，大赦五岁刑以下。
五月，大水。
以司徒谢安为卫将军、仪同三司。
六月甲寅，震含章殿四柱，并杀内侍二人。
甲子，以比岁荒俭，大赦，自太元三年以前逋租宿债皆蠲除之，其鳏寡穷独孤老不能自存者，人赐米五斛。
丁卯，以骠骑将军、琅邪王道子为司徒。
秋九月癸未，皇后王氏崩。
冬十月，九真太守李逊据交州反。
十一月乙酉，葬定皇后于隆平陵。
六年春正月，帝初奉佛法，立精舍于殿内，引诸沙门以居之。
丁酉，以尚书谢石为尚书仆射。
初置督运御史官。
夏六月庚子朔，日有蚀之。扬、荆、江三州大水。
己巳，改制度，减烦费，损吏士员七百人。
秋七月丙子，赦五岁刑已下。
甲午，交址太守杜瑗斩李逊，交州平。
大饥。
冬十一月己亥，以镇军大将军郗愔为司空。
会稽人檀元之反，自号安东将军，镇军参军谢蔼之讨平之。
十二月甲辰，苻坚遣其襄阳太守阎震寇竟陵，襄阳太守桓石虔讨擒之。
七年春三月，林邑范熊遣使献方物。
秋八月癸卯，大赦。
九月，东夷五国遣使来贡方物。
苻坚将都贵焚烧沔北田谷，略襄阳百姓而去。
冬十月丙子，雷。
八年春二月癸未，黄雾四塞。
三月，始兴、南康、庐陵大水，平地五丈。
丁巳，大赦。
夏五月，辅国将军杨亮伐蜀，拔五城，擒苻坚将魏光。
秋七月，鹰扬将军郭洽及苻坚将张崇战于武当，大败之。
translation: 
On the seventh day of the eighth lunar month, General Wang Yun of the left was appointed as Shangshu Pushe.
On the 15th, there was a strong wind and flying sand and rocks.
In September, bandits killed Fu Zhan, the governor of Jian'an.
On the first day of December, there is a solar eclipse.
On the twenty-eighth day of the first month of the fifth year of Taiyuan, the emperor paid homage to Chongping Ling.
In April, there was a severe drought.
On the 27th, those serving prison sentences of less than five years were pardoned.
In May, there was a flood.
Situ Xie'an was appointed as the general of the guard and the third division of Yitong.
On the ninth day of the sixth lunar month, the four pillars of Hanzhang Hall were destroyed by lightning, killing two chamberlains.
On the 19th, due to successive years of famine, a general amnesty was issued for the whole country. The old rent debts before the third year of Taiyuan were all forgiven. Those who were widowed, lonely, old and unable to support themselves were given five bushels of rice each.
On the 22nd, Sima Daozi, the general of the Hussars and King of Ya of Lang, was appointed as the disciple.
On the tenth day of September, Queen Wang died.
In October, Li Xun, the governor of Jiuzhen, occupied Jiaozhou Zao.
On November 13, Queen Ding was buried in Longping Mausoleum.
In the first month of the sixth year of Taiyuan, the emperor began to believe in Buddhism, set up a Buddhist monastery in the temple, and introduced Buddhist monks to live there.
On the 26th, Shangshu Xie Shi was appointed as Shangshu Pushe.
Begin to set up a censor to supervise transportation.
On the first day of June, there is a solar eclipse. Floods occurred in Yangzhou, Jingzhou, and Jiangzhou.
On the 30th, the system was revised, costs were reduced, and 700 officials were laid off.
On the seventh day of July, those who have been imprisoned for less than five years are pardoned.
On the 25th, Du Wangyuan, the prefect of Jiaozhi, killed Li Xun and Jiaozhou was pacified.
There is great hunger in the world.
On the eighth day of the eleventh month, the general of the army, Xi Yanyin, was appointed as Sikong.
Tan Yuan, a native of Kuaiji, rebelled and called himself General Anton. Xie Ai, the general of the Zhenjun army, launched a campaign to put down the rebellion.
On the eighth day of the twelfth lunar month, Fu Jian sent Yan Zhen, the governor of Xiangyang, to attack Jingling. Huan Shiqian, the governor of Xiangyang, attacked and captured Yan Zhen alive.
In March of the seventh year of Taiyuan, Fan Xiong of Linyi sent envoys to donate local products.
On August 11th, there was a general amnesty.
In September, the five countries of Dongyi sent envoys to pay tribute to local products.
Fu Jian's generals burned the rice fields in Mianbei and plundered the people of Xiangyang.
On October 15th, the sky thundered.
On February 24, the eighth year of Taiyuan, a heavy yellow fog filled the air.
In March, floods occurred in Shixing, Nankang, and Luling, and the flat ground was five feet deep.
On the 28th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In May, Yang Liang, the general of the auxiliary state, attacked Shu, captured five cities, and captured Fu Jian's general Wei Guang alive.
In July, Yingyang's general Guo Qia and Fu Jian's general Zhang Chong fought in Wudang and defeated the enemy.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
八月，苻坚帅众渡淮，遣征讨都督谢石、冠军将军谢玄、辅国将军谢琰、西中郎将桓伊等距之。
九月，诏司徒、琅邪王道子录尚书六条事。
冬十月，苻坚弟融陷寿春。
乙亥，诸将及苻坚战于肥水，大破之，俘斩数万计，获坚舆辇及云母车。
十一月庚申，诏卫将军谢安劳旋师于金城。
壬子，立陈留王世子灵诞为陈留王。
十二月庚午，以寇难初平，大赦。
以中军将军谢石为尚书令。
开酒禁。
始增百姓税米，口五石。
前句町王翟辽背苻坚，举兵于河南，慕容垂自鄴与辽合，遂攻坚子晖于洛阳。
仇池公杨世奔还陇右，遣使称籓。
九年春正月庚子，封武陵王孙宝为临川王。
戊午，立新宁王晞子遵为新宁王。
辛亥，谒建平等四陵。
龙骧将军刘牢之克谯城。
车骑将军桓冲部将郭宝伐新城、魏兴、上庸三郡，降之。
二月辛巳，使持节、都督荆江梁宁益交广七州诸军事、车骑将军、荆州刺史桓冲卒。
慕容垂自洛阳与翟辽攻苻坚子丕于鄴。
三月，以卫将军谢安为太保。
苻坚北地长史慕容泓、平阳太守慕容冲并起兵背坚。
夏四月己卯，增置太学生百人。
封张天锡为西平公。
使竟陵太守赵统伐襄阳，克之。
苻坚将姚苌背坚，起兵于北地，自立为王，国号秦。
六月癸丑朔，崇德皇太后褚氏崩。
慕容泓为其叔父冲所杀，冲自称皇太弟。
秋七月戊戌，遣兼司空、高密王纯之修谒洛阳五陵。
己酉，葬康献皇后于崇平陵。
百济遣使来贡方物。
苻坚及慕容冲战于郑西，坚师败绩。
八月戊寅，司空郗愔薨。
九月辛卯，前锋都督谢玄攻苻坚将兗州刺史张崇于鄄城，克之。
甲午，加太保谢安大都督扬、江、荆、司、豫、徐、兗、青、冀、幽、并、梁、益、雍、凉十五州诸军事。
冬十月辛亥朔，日有蚀之。丁巳，河间王昙之薨。
translation: 
In August, Fu Jian led his troops to cross the Huaihe River. The imperial court sent the expedition commander Xie Shi, the champion general Xie Xuan, the auxiliary general Xie Yan, and the Xizhonglang general Huan Yi to resist.
In September, an edict was issued to ask Situ and Sima Daozi, King of Ya and King of Lang, to record six items in the Secretariat.
In October, Fu Jian's younger brother Fu Rong captured Shouchun.
On the 20th, the generals fought with Fu Jian at Fei River and defeated the enemy. They captured and beheaded tens of thousands of people and captured Fu Jian's chariot and mica chariot.
On a certain day in November, General Xie An of the Imperial Guard was in Jincheng to greet the victorious troops.
On the 27th, Cao Lingdan, the eldest son of King Chenliu, was made King Chenliu.
On December 15th, because the enemy invaders had just been pacified, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country.
Xie Shi, the general of the Chinese army, was appointed as Shangshu Ling.
Lift Prohibition.
And began to increase the tax rice from the people, five stones per person.
In the past, Zhai Liao, the king of Juding, betrayed Fu Jian and raised troops in Henan. Murong Chui joined Zhai Liao from Ye and attacked Fu Jian's son Fu Hui in Luoyang.
Yang Shi, Duke of Qiuchi, fled back to Longyou and sent envoys to proclaim him his ministers.
On the 16th day of the first month of the ninth year of Taiyuan, Sima Bao, the grandson of King Wuling, was granted the title of King of Linchuan.
On the fourth day of February, Sima Zun, the son of King Sima of Xinning, was made King of Xinning.
On the twenty-seventh day of the first lunar month, the emperor paid homage to the four tombs of Jianping.
Longxiang General Liu Laozhi captured Qiaocheng.
Guo Bao, the chariot general and governor Huan Chong's subordinate, attacked Xincheng, Wei Xing and Shangyong counties and surrendered them.
On February 27th, the envoy Chijie, the commander-in-chief of Jingzhou, Jiang, Liang, Ning, Yi, Jiao, and Guangzhou, and the generals of chariots and cavalry, and the governor of Jingzhou Huan Chong died.
Murong Chui joined forces with Zhai Liao from Luoyang to attack Fu Jian's son Fu Pi in Yedi.
In March, General Xie An of the Guard was appointed as the chief security officer.
Fu Jian's northern governor Shi Muronghong and Pingyang governor Murong Chong both rebelled against Fu Jian.
On April 26, 100 Tai students were added.
Zhang Tianxi was granted the title of Duke of Xiping.
He sent Zhao Tong, the governor of Jingling, to attack Xiangyang and captured it.
Fu Jian's general Yao Chang betrayed Fu Jian, raised troops in the north, and proclaimed himself king. His country was named Qin.
On the first day of June, Empress Dowager Chu of Chongde died of illness.
Murong Hong was killed by his uncle Murong Chong, who called himself the emperor's younger brother.
On July 17, he sent Sikong Sikong and Sima Chunzhi, King of Gaomi, to repair and worship Luoyang and other Five Tombs.
On the 28th, Queen Kang Xian was buried in Chongping Mausoleum.
Baekje sent envoys to pay tribute to local products.
Fu Jian and Murong Chong fought in Zhengxi, and Fu Jian's army failed.
On August 27, Sikong Xiyin died.
On September 11, the forward commander Xie Xuan attacked Fu Jian's general Yanzhou governor Zhang Chong in Juancheng and defeated him.
On the 14th, Taibao Xie'an was granted the title of Grand Commander-in-Chief of Military Affairs in the fifteen prefectures of Yang, Jiang, Jing, Si, Yu, Xu, Yan, Qing, Ji, You, Bing, Liang, Yi, Yong, and Liang.
On the first day of October, there is a solar eclipse. On the seventh day of the lunar month, Sima Tan, the king of Hejian, died.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
乙丑，以玄象乖度，大赦。
庚午，立前新蔡王晃弟崇为新蔡王。
苻坚青州刺史苻朗帅众来降。
十二月，苻坚将吕光称制于河右，自号酒泉公。
慕容冲僭即皇帝位于阿房。
十年春正月甲午，谒诸陵。
二月，立国学。
蜀郡太守任权斩苻坚益州刺史李平，益州平。
三月，荥阳人郑燮以郡来降。
苻坚国乱，使使奉表请迎。
龙骧将军刘牢之及慕容垂战于黎阳，王师败绩。
夏四月丙辰，刘牢之与沛郡太守周次及垂战于五桥泽，王师又败绩。
壬戌，太保谢安帅众救苻坚。
五月，大水。
苻坚留太子宏守长安，奔于五将山。
六月，宏来降，慕容冲入长安。
秋七月，苻丕自枋头西走，龙骧将军檀玄追之，为丕所败。
旱，饥。
丁巳，老人星见。
八月甲午，大赦。
丁酉，使持节、侍中、中书监、大都督十五州诸军事、卫将军、太保谢安薨。
庚子，以琅邪王道子为都督中外诸军事。
是月，姚苌杀苻坚而僭即皇帝位。
九月，吕光据姑臧，自称凉州刺史。
苻丕僭即皇帝位于晋阳。
冬十月丁亥，论淮肥之功，追封谢安庐陵郡公，封谢石南康公，谢玄康乐公，谢琰望蔡公，桓伊永修公，自余封拜各有差。
是岁，乞伏国仁自称大单于、秦河二州牧。
十一年春正月辛未，慕容垂僭即皇帝位于中山。
壬午，翟辽袭黎阳，执太守滕恬之。
乙酉。谒诸陵。
慕容冲将许木末杀慕容冲于长安。三月，大赦。
太山太守张愿以郡叛，降于翟辽。
夏四月，以百济王世子余晖为使持节、都督、镇东将军、百济王。
代王拓拔圭始改称魏。
癸巳，以尚书仆射陆纳为尚书左仆射，谯王恬为尚书右仆射。
六月己卯，地震。
庚寅，以前辅国将军杨亮为西戎校尉、雍州刺史，镇卫山陵。
秋八月庚午，封孔靖之为奉圣亭侯，奉宣尼祀。
丁亥，安平王邃之薨。
translation: 
On the 15th, due to the violation of celestial phenomena, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country.
On the 20th, Sima Chong, the younger brother of Sima Huang, the former king of Xincai, was appointed king of Xincai.
Fu Lang, Fu Jian's Qingzhou governor, led his disciples to surrender.
In December, Fu Jian's general Lu Guang assumed the emperor's authority in Heyou and named himself Duke of Jiuquan.
Murong Chong usurped the throne and became emperor in Afang.
On the sixteenth day of the first month of the tenth year of Taiyuan, the emperor paid homage to the tombs.
In February, the National School was established.
Ren Quan, the governor of Shu County, beheaded Fu Jian's Yizhou governor Li Ping, and Yizhou was pacified.
In March, Zheng Xie from Xingyang led the county to surrender.
There was turmoil in Fu Jian's country, so he sent envoys to ask for help.
Longxiang General Liu Laozhi and Murong Chui fought in Liyang, and the imperial army was severely defeated.
On the ninth day of April, Liu Laozhi and the governor of Pei County Zhou Ci fought with Murong Chui at Wuqiaoze, and the imperial army was defeated again.
On the 15th, Taibao Xie An led the troops to rescue Fu Jian.
In May, there was a flood.
Fu Jian left Prince Fu Hong to guard Chang'an and fled to Wujiang Mountain.
In June, Fu Honglai surrendered and Murong Chong entered Chang'an.
In July, Fu Pi fled westward from Fangtou. Longxiang General Tan Xuan pursued him, but was defeated by Fu Pi.
Severe drought and famine.
On the 12th, Canopus appeared.
On August 19th, there was a general amnesty.
On the 22nd, the envoy Chijie, Shizhong, Zhongshu Jian, Dadu Superintendent of the military affairs of the fifteen states, General Wei, and Taibao Xie An died.
On the 25th, Sima Daozi, the King of Ya of Lang, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the Chinese and foreign military forces.
This month, Yao Chang killed Fu Jian and usurped the throne as emperor.
In September, Lu Guang occupied Guzang and proclaimed himself the governor of Liangzhou.
Fu Pi usurped the throne as emperor in Jinyang.
On October 13, after reviewing the merits of the Battle of Feishui on the Huaihe River, Xie An was granted the title of Duke of Luling County, Xie Shi was granted the title of Duke of Nankang, Xie Xuan was granted the title of Duke Kang Le, Xie Yan was granted the title of Duke Wangcai, and Huan Yi was granted the title of Duke Yongxiu.
In this year, Qifu Guoren claimed to be the pastor of the two states of Shanyu, Qin and He.
On the 28th of the first month of the eleventh year of Taiyuan, Murong Chui usurped the throne as emperor in Zhongshan.
On February 10, Zhai Liao attacked Liyang and captured the prefect Teng Tianzhi.
On the thirteenth day, the emperor paid homage to the tombs.
Murong Chui's general Xu Mumo killed Murong Chong in Chang'an. In March, there is a general amnesty.
Zhang Yuan, the governor of Taishan, led the county to rebel and surrendered to Zhai Liao.
In April, Yuhui, the eldest son of King Baekje, was appointed as envoy Jijie, governor, general Zhendong, and king of Baekje.
King Tuoba Wang Gui began to rename the state of Wei.
On the 22nd, Shangshu Pushe Lu Na was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe, and Sima Tian, ​​the king of Qiao, was appointed as Shangshu right Pushe.
June 9th, earthquake.
On the 20th, Yang Liang, the former general of the auxiliary state, was appointed as the captain of Xirong and the governor of Yongzhou to guard the emperor's mausoleum.
On the first day of August, Kong Jingzhi was made the Marquis of Fengshengting Pavilion and offered sacrifices to Xuanni.
On the 18th, King Anping Sima Sui died.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
翟辽寇谯，龙骧将军硃序击走之。
冬十月，慕容垂破苻丕于河东，丕走东垣，扬威将军冯该击斩之，传首京都。
甲申，海西公奕薨。
十一月，苻丕将苻登僭即皇帝位于陇东。
十二年春正月乙巳，以豫州刺史硃序为青、兗二州刺史，镇淮阴。
丁未，大赦。
壬子，暴风，发屋折木。
戊午，慕容垂寇河东，济北太守温详奔彭城。
翟辽遣子钊寇陈、颍，硃序击走之。
夏四月戊辰，尊夫人李氏为皇太妃。
己丑，雨雹。
高平人翟暢执太守徐含远，以郡降于翟辽。
六月癸卯，束帛聘处士戴逵、袭玄之。
秋八月辛巳，立皇子德宗为皇太子，大赦，增文武位二等，大酺五日，赐百官布帛各有差。
九月戊午，复新宁王遵为武陵王，立梁王逢子和为梁王。
冬十一月，松滋太守王遐之讨翟辽于洛口，败之。
十三年夏四月戊午，以青兗二州刺史硃序为持节、都督雍梁沔中九郡诸军事、雍州刺史，谯王恬之为镇北将军、青兗二州刺史。
夏六月，旱。
乞伏国仁死，弟乾归嗣伪位，僭号河南王。
秋七月，翟辽将翟发寇洛阳，河南太守郭给距破之。
冬十二月戊子，涛水入石头，毁大桁，杀人。
乙未，大风，昼晦，延贤堂灾。
丙申，螽斯则百堂、客馆、骠骑库皆灾。
己亥，加尚书令谢石卫将军、开府仪同三司。
庚子，尚书令、卫将军、开府仪同三司谢石薨。
十四年春正月癸亥，诏淮南所获俘虏付诸作部者一皆散遣，男女自相配匹，赐百日廪，其沿线为军赏者悉赎出之，以襄阳、淮南饶沃地各立一县以居之。
彭城妖贼刘黎僭称皇帝于皇丘，龙骧将军刘宰之讨平之。
二月，扶南献方物。
吕光僭号三河王。
translation: 
Zhai Liao invaded Qiao, and Long Xiang's general Zhu Xu drove him away.
In October, Murong Chui defeated Fu Pi in Hedong. Fu Pi fled to Dongyuan. General Feng Gai attacked and beheaded him, and his head was sent to Kyoto.
On the 16th, Ma Yi of Haixi Company died.
In November, Fu Pi's general Fu Deng usurped the throne in Longdong and became emperor.
On the eighth day of the first lunar month in the twelfth year of Taiyuan, Zhu Xu, the governor of Yuzhou, was appointed the governor of Qingzhou and Yanzhou to guard Huaiyin.
On March 11th, there was a general amnesty.
On the 16th, a strong wind blew, destroying houses and breaking down trees.
On the 22nd, Murong Chui invaded Hedong, and Wen Xiang, the chief defender of Jibei Province, fled to Pengcheng.
Zhai Liao sent his son Zhai Zhao to invade Chen and Ying, but Zhu Xu beat him away.
On April 3, the Emperor honored his wife Li as the Crown Princess.
On the 24th, it hailed.
Zhai Chang, a native of Gaoping, captured the prefect Xu Hanyuan and led the county to surrender to Zhai Liao.
On the eighth day of the fifth lunar month, the officials Dai Kui and Gong Xuanzhi were hired with the gift of silk.
On August 18, the prince Dezong was made the crown prince, a general amnesty was granted to the world, civil and military ministers were promoted to a higher rank, a banquet was held for five days, and various amounts of cloth and silk were given to all officials.
On September 25, he appointed Sima Zun, king of Xinning, as king of Wuling, and Sima He, son of Sima Wangfeng, king of Liang, as king of Liang.
In November, Wang Xazhi, the prefect of Songzi, attacked Zhai Liao in Luokou and defeated Zhai Liao.
On April 29, the 13th year of Taiyuan, Zhu Xu, the governor of Qingzhou and Yanzhou, was appointed as Chijie and the military governor of the nine counties of Yong, Liang and Mianzhong. Sima Tianzhi, the governor of Yongzhou and the king of Qiao, was appointed as the general of Zhenbei and the governor of Qingzhou and Yanzhou.
June, severe drought.
Qifu Guoren died, and his younger brother Qiangui inherited the false throne and assumed the title of King of Henan.
In September, Zhai Liao's general Zhai Fa invaded Xiangyang. Guo Gei, the governor of Henan, resisted the enemy and defeated the enemy army.
On the third day of December, waves entered Stone City, destroying the large pontoon bridge and drowning people.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, there was a strong wind and the day was dark, and Yanxian Hall suffered a fire.
On the 11th, Katydid's hall, guest house, and hussar arsenal all suffered fires.
On the 14th, Xie Shi was granted the title of Shangshu and was appointed General of the Guard and Kaifu Yitong to the Third Division.
On the 15th, Shangshu Ling, General Wei, and Kaifu Yi died with Xie Shi.
On the eighth day of the first lunar month of the fourteenth year of Taiyuan, the imperial edict was issued that all the prisoners captured in Huainan who had been handed over to the weapons-making department should be demobilized, and the men and women should be matched with each other, and they should be given a hundred days of food. Those who had been reduced to military rewards were all redeemed, and a county was established for them to live in the fertile lands of Xiangyang and Huainan.
Pengcheng bandit general Liu Li usurped the throne and proclaimed himself emperor in Huangqiu, and Longxiang general Liu Laozhi put him down.
In February, Funan presented local products.
Lu Guang assumed the title of King of Three Rivers.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
夏四月甲辰，彭城王弘之薨。
翟辽寇荥阳，执太守张卓。
六月壬寅，使持节、都督荆益宁三州诸军事、荆州刺史桓石虔卒。
秋七月甲寅，宣阳门四柱灾。
八月，姚苌袭破苻登，获其伪后毛氏。
丁亥，汝南王羲薨。
九月庚午，以尚书左仆射陆纳为尚书令。
冬十二月乙巳，雨，木冰。
十五年春正月乙亥，镇北将军、谯王恬之薨。
龙骧将军刘牢之及翟辽、张愿战于太山，王师败绩。
征虏将军硃序破慕容永于太行。
二月辛己，以中书令王恭为都督青兗幽并冀五州诸军事、前将军、青兗二州刺史。
三月己酉朔，地震。
戊辰，大赦。
秋七月丁巳，有星孛于北河。
八月，永嘉人李耽举兵反，太守刘怀之讨平之。
己丑，京师地震。
有星孛于北斗，犯紫微。
沔中诸郡及兗州大水。
龙骧将军硃序攻翟辽于滑台，大败之，张愿来降。
九月丁未，以吴郡太守王珣为尚书仆射。
冬十二月己未，地震。
十六年春正月庚申，改筑太庙。
夏六月，慕容永寇河南，太守杨佺期击破之。己未，章武王范之薨。
秋九月癸未，以尚书右仆射王珣为尚书左仆射，以太子詹事谢琰为尚书右仆射。
新庙成。
冬十一月，姚苌败苻登于安定。
十七年春正月己巳朔，大赦，除逋租宿债。
夏四月，齐国内史蒋喆杀乐安太守辟闾浚，据青州反，北平原太守辟闾浑讨平之。
五月丁卯朔，日有蚀之。六月癸卯，京师地震。
甲寅，涛水入石头，毁大桁。
永嘉郡潮水涌起，近海四县人多死者。
乙卯，大风，折木。
戊午，梁王薨。
慕容垂袭翟钊于黎阳，败之，钊奔于慕容永。
秋七月丁丑，太白昼见。
八月，新作东宫。
冬十月丁酉，太白昼见。
辛亥，都督荆益宁三州诸军事、荆州刺史王忱卒。
十一月癸酉，以黄门郎殷仲堪为都督荆益梁三州诸军事、荆州刺史。
庚寅，徙封琅邪王道子为会稽王，封皇子德文为琅邪王。
十二月己未，地震。
translation: 
On April 20th, Sima Hong, the king of Pengcheng, died.
Zhai Liao invaded Xingyang and captured the prefect Zhang Zhuo.
On June 19, the envoy Chijie, the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Jing, Yi, and Ning states, and the governor of Jingzhou Huan Shiqian died.
On the third day of July, the four pillars of Xuanyang Gate caught fire.
In August, Yao Chang defeated Fu Deng in a secret attack and captured his puppet queen Mao.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, King Sima Yi of Runan died.
On September 19th, Ren Shangshu Zuopu shot Lu Na as Shangshu order.
On December 25, it rained and the trees froze.
On the twenty-sixth day of the first month of the fifteenth year of Taiyuan, Sima Tian, ​​the general of Zhenbei and the king of Qiao, died.
Longxiang General Liu Laozhi fought with Zhai Liao and Zhang Yuan in Taishan, and the imperial army was defeated.
General Zhu Xu defeated Murong Yong in Taihang.
On the second day of February, Zhongshu ordered Wang Gong to be the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the five states of Qing, Yan, You, Bing, and Ji, the former general, and the governor of the two states of Qing and Yan.
On the first day of March, there was an earthquake.
On the 20th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On July 11, a comet appeared near the star Pollux.
In August, Li Dan from Yongjia led his troops to rebel, and the prefect Liu Huaizhi put him down.
On the 13th, there was an earthquake in Beijing.
A comet appeared on the Big Dipper, attacking the Ziwei constellation.
Floods occurred in various counties in Miazhong and Yanzhou.
Long Xiang's general Zhu Xu attacked Zhai Liao at Huatai. Zhai Liao was defeated and Zhang Yuan came to surrender.
On the first day of September, Wang Wangxun, the prefect of Wu County, was appointed as the official secretary.
December 15th, earthquake.
In a certain month of the 16th year of Taiyuan, the Ancestral Temple was rebuilt.
In June, Murong Yong invaded Henan, and the prefect Yang Genquan defeated the enemy. On the 18th, Sima Fan, king of Zhangwu, died.
On September 14, Wang Xun, the right servant of Shangshu, was appointed as the left servant of Shangshu, and Prince Zhan Shi Xie Yan was appointed as the right servant of Shangshu.
The new Taimiao Temple was built.
In November, Yao Chang defeated Fu Deng in Anding.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the seventeenth year of Taiyuan, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world, and old rent debts from previous years were forgiven.
In April, the domestic history of Qi Jiang Zhe killed Pilu Xurui, the governor of Le'an, and occupied Qingzhou Zao. Piluhun, the governor of Beipingyuan, launched a crusade to quell the rebellion.
On the first day of May, there is a solar eclipse. On the eighth day of June, an earthquake occurred in Beijing.
On the 19th, floods entered Stone City and destroyed the floating bridge.
The tide surged in Yongjia County, and many people died in the four counties near the sea.
On the 20th, strong winds blew and the trees were broken.
On the 23rd, Sima He, King of Liang, died.
Murong Chui attacked Zhai Zhao in Liyang and defeated him. Zhai Zhao fled to Murong Yong.
On July 12, Taibai Star appeared during the day.
In August, the new East Palace was built.
On the fourth day of October, Taibai appears during the day.
On the 18th, Wang Chen, the military governor of Jingzhou, Yizhou and Ningzhou, and the governor of Jingzhou died.
On the tenth day of November, Huangmenlang Yin Zhongkan was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Jingzhou, Yi and Liangzhou, and the governor of Jingzhou.
On the 27th, Sima Daozi, King of Ya of Langwang, was renamed King of Kuaiji, and Prince Sima Dewen was named King of Ya of Langwang.
On December 27, an earthquake occurred.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
是岁，自秋不雨，至于冬。
十八年春正月癸亥朔，地震。
二月乙未，地又震。
三月，翟钊寇河南。
夏六月己亥，始兴、南康、庐陵大水，深五丈。
秋七月，旱。
闰月，妖贼司马徽聚党于马头山，刘牢之遣部将讨平之。
九月丙戌，龙骧将军杨佺期击氐帅杨佛嵩于潼谷，败之。
冬十月，姚苌死，子兴嗣伪位。
十九年夏六月壬子，追尊会稽王太妃郑氏为简文宣太后。
秋七月，荆、徐二州大水，伤秋稼，遣使振恤之。
八月己巳，尊皇太妃李氏为皇太后，宫曰崇训。
慕容垂击慕容永于长子，斩之。
冬十月，慕容垂遣其子恶奴寇廪丘，东平太守韦简及垂将尹国战于平陆，简死之。
是岁，苻登为姚兴所杀，登太子崇奔于湟中，僭称皇帝。
二十年春二月，作宣太后庙。
甲寅，散骑常侍、光禄大夫、开府仪同三司、尚书令陆纳卒。
二十一年春正月，造清暑殿。
三月，慕容垂攻平城，拔之。
夏四月，新作永安宫。
丁亥，雨雹。
慕容垂死，子宝嗣伪位。
五月甲子，以望蔡公谢琰为尚书左仆射。
大水。
六月，吕光僭即天王位。
秋九月庚申，帝崩于清暑殿，时年三十五。
葬隆平陵。
帝幼称聪悟。
简文之崩也，时年十岁，至晡不临，左右进谏，答曰： 哀至则哭，何常之有？
谢安尝叹以为精理不减先帝。
既威权己出，雅有人主之量。既而溺于酒色，殆为长夜之饮。
末年长星见，帝心甚恶之，于华林园举酒祝之曰： 长星，劝汝一杯酒，自古何有万岁天子邪！
太白连年昼见，地震水旱为变者相属。
醒日既少，而傍无正人，竟不能改焉。
translation: 
This year, it doesn't rain from autumn until winter.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the eighteenth year of Taiyuan, an earthquake occurred.
On the fourth day of February, another earthquake occurred.
In March, Zhai Zhao invaded Henan.
On the ninth day of the sixth lunar month, floods broke out in Shixing, Nankang, and Luling, and the water was five feet deep.
In July, there was a severe drought.
In the seventh month, the traitor Sima Hui gathered his followers in Ma Tou Mountain, and Liu Laozhi sent his troops to put him down.
On August 28, Longxiang general Yang Quanqi attacked Di commander Yang Fosong in Tonggu and defeated him.
In December, Yao Chang died, and his son Yao Xing inherited the pseudo-throne.
In June of the 19th year of Taiyuan, the Queen Mother Zheng of Kuaiji was honored as Queen Mother Jian Wenxuan.
In July, floods occurred in Jing and Xuzhou, destroying the autumn crops. The imperial court sent envoys to provide relief and compensation.
On August 16, the imperial concubine Li was honored as the empress dowager, and the palace where she lived was called Chongxun Palace.
Murong Chui's eldest son attacked Murong Yong and beheaded him.
In October, Murong Chui sent his son Ernu to invade Linqiu. Wei Jian, the prefect of Dongping, fought with Murong Chui's general Yin Guo in Pinglu, and Wei Jian died in the battle.
In this year, Fu Deng was killed by Yao Xing. Fu Deng's prince Fu Chong fled to Huangzhong and assumed the throne as emperor.
In February of the 20th year of Taiyuan, the Temple of Queen Mother Xuan was built.
On the fourth day of the lunar month, Sanqi Changshi, Guanglu Dafu, Kaifu Yitong, and Shangshu ordered Lu Na to die.
On the first day of March, there is a solar eclipse. In June, there were floods in Jingzhou and Xuzhou.
In November, King Tuoba Wang Gui of Wei attacked Murong Chui's son Murong Bao in Shui Valley and defeated him.
In the first month of the 21st year of Taiyuan, the Qingshu Palace was built. In March, Murong Chui captured Pingcheng. In April, the new Yong'an Palace was built.
On the 14th, there was hail.
Murong was dying, and his son Murong Bao succeeded him to the throne.
On May 15th, Wang Cai Gong Xie Yan was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe.
Flood.
In June, Lu Guang usurped the throne and became the emperor.
On September 20, the emperor died in Qingshu Palace at the age of thirty-five.
Buried in Longping Mausoleum.
Emperor Xiaowu was known for his intelligence and enlightenment when he was young.
When Emperor Jian Wen died, he was only ten years old. He did not attend the funeral in the evening, but came to give advice. He replied: "Weep when you are sad. What is the rule?"
Xie An once lamented that Emperor Xiaowu was as good at affairs as the previous emperor.
After the authority was established, some people were magnanimous and soon indulged in wine and sex, drinking almost all night long.
When the comet appeared at the end of the year, the emperor was very disgusted in his heart. He raised a glass of wine in Hualin Garden and prayed: Comet, I advise you to drink a glass of wine. Since ancient times, where has the emperor lived for ten thousand years?
The Taibai Star appears in the daytime year after year, and earthquakes, floods and droughts occur one after another.
Days of sobriety are rare. And since there are no upright people around him, he cannot change in the end.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
时张贵人有宠，年几三十，帝戏之曰： 汝以年当废矣。
贵人潜怒，向夕，帝醉，遂暴崩。
时道子昏惑，元显专权，竟不推其罪人。
初，简文帝见谶云： 晋祚尽昌明。
及帝之在孕也，李太后梦神人谓之曰： 汝生男，以 昌明 为字。
及产，东方始明，因以为名焉。
简文帝后悟，乃流涕。
及为清暑殿，有识者以为 清暑 反为 楚 声，哀楚之征也。
俄而帝崩，晋祚自此倾矣。
史臣曰：前史称 不有废也，吾何以兴 ，若乃天挺惟神，光膺嗣位，迈油云而骧首，济沈川而能跃。
少康一旅之众，所以阐帝图；成汤七十之基，所以兴王业；静河海于既泄，补穹圆于已紊；事异于斯，则弗由也。
简皇以虚白之姿，在屯如之会，政由桓氏，祭则寡人。
太宗晏驾，宁康纂业，天诱其衷，奸臣自陨。
于时西逾剑岫而跨灵山，北振长河而临清洛；荆吴战旅，啸叱成云；名贤间出，旧德斯在：谢安可以镇雅俗，彪之足以正纪纲，桓冲之夙夜王家，谢玄之善断军事。
于时上天乃眷，强氐自泯。
五尺童子，振袂临江，思所以挂旆天山，封泥函谷；而条纲弗垂，威思罕树，道子荒乎朝政，国宝汇以小人，拜授之荣，初非天旨，鬻刑之货，自走权门，毒赋年滋，愁民岁广。
是以闻人、许荣驰书诣阙，烈宗知其抗直，而恶闻逆耳，肆一醉于崇朝，飞千觞于长夜。
虽复 昌明 表梦，安听神言？
而金行颓弛，抑亦人事，语曰 大国之政未陵夷，小邦之乱已倾覆 也。
属苻坚百六之秋，弃肥水之众，帝号为 武 ，不亦优哉！
赞曰：君若缀旒，道非交泰。
简皇凝寂，不贻伊害。
孝武登朝，奸雄自消。
燕之击路，郑叔分镳。
倡临帝席，酒劝天妖。
金风不竞，人事先凋。
translation: 
At that time, Zhang Guiren was favored and she was nearly thirty years old. The emperor teased her and said: "You should be abandoned according to your age."
Zhang Guiren was secretly angry. At night, the emperor got drunk and died suddenly.
At that time, Sima Daozi was fatuous and confused, and Sima Yuan showed his power and did not even pursue the criminals.
At the beginning, Emperor Jian Wen saw the text predicting good and bad luck and said: The national destiny of the Jin Dynasty failed in the hands of Changming.
When Emperor Xiaowu was still a fetus, Empress Dowager Li dreamed that the man of God said to her: If you give birth to a boy, the character will be "Changming".
When he was born, it was bright in the east, so he took the word "Changming" as his character.
Emperor Jian Wen later understood and burst into tears.
When the Qingshu Palace was built, knowledgeable people believed that the sound of "Qingshu" was the sound of "Chu", which meant a sign of sadness and sadness.
Soon after the emperor died, the fortune of the Jin Dynasty collapsed.
Shi Chen said: The historical books in the past said: "How can a king rise without being deposed? If he is as outstanding as a god, he will inherit the throne with glory, cross the thick clouds with high head, and cross the river with leaps."
Shaokang only had one brigade of troops, so he won the throne of the Xia king; Chengtang only had seventy lands, but he revitalized the emperor's great cause; he was able to manage the rivers and seas after they broke out, and he was able to remedy the chaos in the sky; things are different from this, so the reasons are also different.
Emperor Jian Wen was in a difficult time because of his innocuous nature. Government orders were issued by the Huan family, and people of his own clan had no power.
After Taizong's death, Ningkang inherited the great cause. God was moved by his loyalty, and the treacherous officials perished on their own.
So in the west, we surpassed Jianxiu and crossed Lingshan Mountain, and in the north, we crossed the Yellow River and reached the clear Luoshui River. The warriors of Jing and Wu became powerful, famous virtuous ministers appeared one after another, and the virtuous elders were still there. Xie An can lead elegant and popular people, Wang Biaozhi can regulate discipline, Huan Chong works hard all day long, and Xie Xuan is good at military affairs.
At that time, God favored him, and the powerful Di people disappeared.
The five-foot-old boy waved his sleeves to the Yangtze River, hoping to let the flag fly to the Tianshan Mountains and guard the Xiongguan in Han Valley; but the laws and regulations were not spread, the majesty and kindness were rarely achieved, Sima Daozi was idle in the government, the national treasure gathered villains, the honor of being awarded an official title was not originally God's will, the goods obtained through corruption in prison entered the homes of the powerful, exorbitant taxes and miscellaneous taxes increased year by year, and the number of poor people increased year by year.
So Wen Ren and Xu Rong wrote to the emperor, and Lie Zong knew that they were frank and honest, but they hated hearing unfavorable advice, so they drank as much as they wanted in the morning and toasted frequently at night.
Although there are dreams of prosperity, where can I hear the words of the gods?
It can be seen that the decline of the Jin Dynasty was also man-made. As the saying goes, the political affairs of big countries have not yet declined, but the chaos of small countries has brought the country to its knees.
It happened that Fu Jian was at the moment when his misfortune was approaching. Isn't it funny to abandon his defeated troops and call Mi Mi the "Wu"?
Praise says: A king is like a crown, his fortune is not always good.
Emperor Jian was quiet and inactive, leaving no disaster behind.
When Emperor Xiaowu ascended the throne, the traitor disappeared naturally.
Yan Zhizhi fought for the road, and Uncle Zheng parted ways.
The sponsors came to the emperor's banquet, and the beautiful women persuaded them to drink wine.
The autumn wind is sluggish, and human affairs are the first to decline.


