Chunk 0: 
original: 
昔司马迁、班固书，并为《司马相如传》，相如不预汉廷大事，盖取其文章尤著也。
固又为《贾邹枚路传》，亦取其能文传焉。
范氏《后汉书》有《文苑传》，所载之人，其详已甚。
然经礼乐而纬国家，通古今而述美恶，非文莫可也。
是以君临天下者，莫不敦悦其义，缙绅之学，咸贵尚其道，古往今来，未之能易。
高祖聪明文思，光宅区宇，旁求儒雅，诏采异人，文章之盛，焕乎俱集。
每所御幸，辄命群臣赋诗，其文善者，赐以金帛，诣阙庭而献赋颂者，或引见焉。
其在位者，则沈约、江淹、任昉，并以文采妙绝当时。
至若彭城到沆、吴兴丘迟、东海王僧孺、吴郡张率等，或入直文德，通宴寿光，皆后来之选也。
约、淹、昉、僧孺，率别以功迹论。
今缀到沆等文兼学者，至太清中人，为《文学传》云。
到沆，字茂瀣，彭城武原人也。
曾祖彦之，宋将军。
父捴，齐五兵尚书。
沆幼聪敏，五岁时，捴于屏风抄古诗，沆请教读一遍，便能讽诵，无所遗失。
既长勤学，善属文，工篆隶。
美风神，容止可悦。
齐建武中，起家后军法曹参军。
天监初，迁征虏主簿。
高祖初临天下，收拔贤俊，甚爱其才。
东宫建，以为太子洗马。
translation: 
In the past, the history books of Sima Qian and Ban Gu both compiled the "Biography of Sima Xiangru". Sima Xiangru did not participate in the major affairs of the Han Dynasty, so his articles are particularly famous for his biography.
Ban Gu also wrote the "Biography of Jia Zou Meilu", also because they could write articles and spread them to the world.
Fan Ye's "Book of Houmo" contains the "Biography of Wenyuan". The deeds of the people included in the biography have been recorded in great detail.
Formulating rituals and music, governing the country, understanding the past and present, recording good and bad deeds are all impossible without writing.
Therefore, no one who is a king and governs the world does not respect and value the function of articles; scholars among the Jin gentry also value and value the function of articles. This situation has not changed since ancient times.
Emperor Gaozu was both intelligent and virtuous, well aware of affairs, and had a vast empire. He went to Shao to seek liberal Confucian scholars and accepted talents with special knowledge. As a result, the ritual and music system flourished, and talents of all kinds gathered in the capital, glowing with dazzling brilliance.
Whenever Emperor Gaozu visited a place, he often ordered his officials to compose poems and essays. Those who wrote good poems and essays would be rewarded with gold and silk. Those who went to the palace to present poems and eulogies would sometimes be favored by being received.
Those literati with official titles, such as Shen Yue, Jiang Yan, Ren Fang, etc., were all called excellent at the time because of their literary talent.
As for people like Pengcheng Daohang, Wu Xingqiuchi, Shuhai Wang Sengru, Wujun Zhang Shu and others, some of them were honored by the Wende Hall of Zhidai Shao, and some enjoyed the favor of the Shouguang Hall where the monarchs and ministers feasted. These are all outstanding and outstanding talents in the future.
Shen Yue, Jiang Yan, Ren Fang, Wang Sengru and Zhang Sui are separately described according to their merits and achievements.
The collection was limited to the Taiqing period, and the deeds of talented and knowledgeable figures such as Dao Hang were collected into "Wenxue Biography".
To Hang, named Mao, was a native of Wuyuan, Pengcheng.
His great-grandfather came to Yanzhi and served as a general in the Song Dynasty.
When his father arrived in Jie, he was appointed Minister of the Fifth Army of Qi Dynasty.
Daehang was smart and alert since he was a child. When he was five years old, his father copied ancient poems on a screen. Daehang asked his father to teach him how to read them, and he was able to recite them immediately without forgetting the words.
When he grew up, Daohang was diligent and studious, good at writing articles, and was good at writing seal script and official script.
She is very beautiful in appearance and demeanor, and her behavior is loved by people.
During the Jianwu period of Qi Dynasty, after serving as an official in Han Dynasty, military law officer Cao joined the army.
In the early years of Tianjian's reign, he was moved to the post of Chief Registrar of Zhenglu.
When Emperor Gaozu first ascended the throne, he focused on recruiting and promoting outstanding talents. Emperor Gaozu admired Hang's talents very much.
After Emperor Gaozu established the crown prince, he ordered him to go to Hang to wash the prince's horses.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
时文德殿置学士省，召高才硕学者待诏其中，使校定坟史，诏沆通籍焉。
时高祖宴华光殿，命群臣赋诗，独诏沆为二百字，二刻使成。
沆于坐立奏，其文甚美。
俄以洗马管东宫书记、散骑省优策文。
三年，诏尚书郎在职清能或人才高妙者为侍郎，以沆为殿中曹侍郎。
沆从父兄溉、洽，并有才名，时皆相代为殿中，当世荣之。
四年，迁太子中舍人。
沆为人不自伐，不论人长短，乐安任昉、南乡范云皆与友善。
其年，迁丹阳尹丞，以疾不能处职事，迁北中郎谘议参军。
五年，卒官，年三十。
高祖甚伤惜焉，诏赐钱二万，布三十匹。
所著诗赋百余篇。
丘迟，字希范，吴兴乌程人也。
父灵鞠，有才名，仕齐官至太中大夫。
迟八岁便属文，灵鞠常谓 气骨似我 。
黄门郎谢超宗、征士何点并见而异之。
及长，州辟从事，举秀才，除太学博士。
迁大司马行参军，遭父忧去职。
服阕，除西中郎参军。
累迁殿中郎，以母忧去职。
服除，复为殿中郎，迁车骑录事参军。
高祖平京邑，霸府开，引为骠骑主簿，甚被礼遇。时劝进梁王及殊礼，皆迟文也。
高祖践阼，拜散骑侍郎，俄迁中书侍郎，领吴兴邑中正，待诏文德殿。
时高祖著《连珠》，诏群臣继作者数十人，迟文最美。
天监三年，出为永嘉太守，在郡不称职，为有司所纠，高祖爱其才，寝其奏。
四年，中军将军临川王宏北伐，迟为谘议参军，领记室。
时陈伯之在北，与魏军来距，迟以书喻之，伯之遂降。
还拜中书郎，迁司徒从事中郎。
七年，卒官，时年四十五。
所著诗赋行于世。
translation: 
At that time, the imperial court set up a bachelor's department in the Wende Hall, summoned talented and knowledgeable people to stay in the bachelor's department, and ordered them to revise the classics. Emperor Gaozu also sent to Shao to let Dahang enjoy the benefits of a general membership, and his name was registered in the family register, so he could enter and exit the palace.
At that time, Emperor Gaozu hosted a banquet in the Huaguang Hall and ordered the ministers to compose poems. Only one person, Shao, was ordered to write a long poem of 200 words, which was to be completed within three seconds.
Taohang stood at his seat and presented his improvisation, with beautiful diction.
Soon, he went to Hang to take charge of the secretary of the East Palace and the Youcewen of Sanqi Province with the post of washing horses.
In the third year of Tianjian, Emperor Gaozu ordered Shao to select Shangshulang who was honest, capable or talented and knowledgeable during his tenure and promoted him to the rank of Minister. When he arrived at Han, he was appointed as the Minister of Cao in the palace.
Daohang and his cousins ​​Daogai and Daoqia were both known as talented men. At that time, they all took turns holding positions in the palace, which was considered an honor by contemporary people.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, he moved to Hang and was appointed Prince Zhongsheren.
He was a man who did not boast of his own merits or talk about the merits of others. Le'an Renfang and Nanxiang Fan Yun both had a good friendship with him.
In this year, he was moved to Danyang Yincheng. Because he was ill and unable to take office, he was moved to Beizhonglang to consult and join the army.
In the fifth year of Tianjian, Daohang died during his tenure at the age of thirty.
Zhidan was deeply saddened by his death and issued an edict granting him twenty thousand dollars and thirty pieces of cloth to his family.
Daohang wrote more than 100 poems and poems.
Qiu Chi, courtesy name Xifan, was from Wucheng, Wuxing.
His father, Qiu Lingju, was famous for his talent. He became an official in Qi Dynasty and was promoted to Taizhong doctor.
Qiu Chi could write articles at the age of eight. Qiu Lingju often said that the momentum and strength of articles about making children are similar to mine.
Huangmenlang Xie Shuyi and Zhengshi Hedian both met Qiu Chi and thought he had excellent talents.
When Qiu Chi grew up, he was appointed as an official in the state, promoted as a scholar, and was dismissed from the imperial examination.
Qiu Chi moved to Sima Xing to join the army, but he left his post to mourn his father's death.
At the end of the mourning period, Qiu Chi was dismissed and awarded the title of Xizhonglang to join the army.
After his meritorious service, he was promoted to the position of Lang in the palace, but he left his post to mourn his mother's death.
After the mourning period expired, Qiu Chi was appointed as the palace minister, and then moved to the chariot and cavalry record to join the army.
When Emperor Gaozu pacified the capital and established the Bafu, Qiu Chi was selected as the Hussar Master and received very generous courtesy. At that time, the words to persuade the King of Liang to join the Liang Dynasty and to give the King of Liang special treatment were all written by Qiu Chi.
When Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, Qiu Chi was worshiped as the Minister of Sanqi, and soon moved to the position of Minister of Zhongshu, leading Zhongzheng in Wuxingyi, and Wende Hall of Waiting for Zhao.
At that time, Emperor Gaozu wrote "Lianzhu" by himself and ordered ten people to follow him. Among them, Qiu Chi's writing was the most beautiful.
In the third year of Tianjian, Qiu Chi came out of the capital to serve as the prefect of Yongjia County. Qiu Chi was incompetent in his duties in Yongjia County and was impeached by the officials. Emperor Gaozu cherished his talent and suppressed the memorial to impeach Qiu Chi.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, the general of the Chinese army, Xiao Hong, king of Linchuan, went on the northern expedition. Qiu Chi was appointed to consult and join the army, and headed the record office.
At that time, Chen Bozhi defected to Wei and joined the Wei army to resist the Northern Expedition. Qiu Chi wrote a letter to enlighten Chen Bozhi, and Chen Bozhi surrendered.
After returning to school, Qiu Chi was worshiped as Zhongshu Lang and moved to Situ to work as Zhongshu Lang.
In the seventh year of Tianjian, Qiu Chi died during his tenure at the age of forty-five.
The poems and poems written by Qiu Chi have been spread all over the world.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
刘苞，字孝尝，彭城人也。
祖勔，宋司空。
父愃，齐太子中庶子。
苞四岁而父终，及年六七岁，见诸父常泣。
时伯、叔父悛、绘等并显贵，苞母谓其畏惮，怒之。
苞对曰： 早孤不及有识，闻诸父多相似，故心中欲悲，无有佗意。
因而歔欷，母亦恸甚。
初，苞父母及两兄相继亡没，悉假瘗焉。苞年十六，始移墓所，经营改葬，不资诸父，未几皆毕，绘常叹服之。
少好学，能属文。
起家为司徒法曹行参军，不就。
天监初，以临川王妃弟故，自征虏主簿仍迁王中军功曹，累迁尚书库部侍郎、丹阳尹丞、太子太傅丞、尚书殿中侍郎、南徐州治中，以公事免。
久之，为太子洗马，掌书记，侍讲寿光殿。
自高祖即位，引后进文学之士，苞及从兄孝绰、从弟孺、同郡到溉、溉弟洽、从弟沆、吴郡陆倕、张率并以文藻见知，多预宴坐，虽仕进有前后，其赏赐不殊。
天监十年，卒，时年三十。
临终，呼友人南阳刘之遴托以丧事，务从俭率。
苞居官有能名，性和而直，与人交，面折其非，退称其美，情无所隐，士友咸以此叹惜之。
袁峻，字孝高，陈郡阳夏人，魏郎中令涣之八世孙也。
峻早孤，笃志好学，家贫无书，每从人假借，必皆抄写，自课日五十纸，纸数不登，则不休息。
讷言语，工文辞。
义师克京邑，鄱阳王恢东镇破冈，峻随王知管记事。
translation: 
Liu Bao, courtesy name Xiaochang, was born in Pengcheng.
His grandfather Liu Kuang was Sikong during the Song Dynasty.
His father, Liu Zhi, was the concubine of the crown prince at that time.
When Liu Bao was four years old, his father passed away. When he was six or seven years old, Liu Bao would often cry when he saw his uncles.
At that time, Liu Bao's uncle Liu Chan and uncle Liu Hui were already in high status. Liu Bao's mother thought that Liu Bao was crying out of fear and was very angry about this.
Liu Bao replied: I lost my father very early and did not remember his face. I heard that my uncle and uncle had very similar faces to my father, so I felt sad when I saw them and had no other meaning.
As he spoke, he sobbed again, and his mother became even more sad.
At first, Liu Bao's parents and two brothers died one after another, and they were all buried temporarily. When Liu Bao was sixteen, their coffins were moved to the cemetery. The planning and arrangements for the reburial were all done by Liu Bao alone, without the help of his uncles and uncles. It didn't take long for everything to be done. Liu Hui often praised him and admired his ability.
Liu Bao has been eager to learn since he was a child and can write articles.
When he first became an official, Cao Xing joined the army, but he did not take office.
In the early years of Tianjian, because he was the younger brother of the Princess of Linchuan, he was promoted from the war chief to the military meritorious officer of the Linchuan King. He also accumulated merit and was moved to the post of minister of Shangshu Kubu, Danyang Yin Cheng, Prince Taifu Cheng, minister of Shangshu Palace, and Nanxuzhou Zhizhong. He was dismissed because of official business.
After meeting for a long time, Liu Bao appointed the prince to wash horses, be in charge of the secretary, and serve as a lecturer in Shouguang Palace.
After Emperor Gaozu came to the throne, he selected young scholars with literary talents. Liu Bao, his cousins ​​Liu Xiaochuo, Liu Ru, Dao Gai from the same county, Dao Gai's younger brother Luo Qia, Dao Gai's cousin Dao Hang, Wu Jun Lu Chui, and Zhang Shu were all appreciated for their literary talents and often participated in the banquets of the monarchs and ministers. Although their official positions were different, the rewards they received were the same.
In the tenth year of Tianjian, Liu Bao passed away at the age of thirty.
When Liu Bao was about to die, he called his friends Nanyang and Liu Zhisheng to entrust him with the funeral arrangements and requested that the funeral affairs must be frugal.
Liu Bao had a reputation for being capable when he was an official, and he was gentle by nature. But he is upright in dealing with things, interacts with people, criticizes his friends' shortcomings and mistakes in person, praises their friends' strengths and virtues behind their backs, is frank in his feelings, and does not hide his privacy. His friends all praise him for this.
Yuan Jun, courtesy name Xiaogao, was born in Yangxia, Chen County. He was the eighth generation descendant of Wei Langzhong's order, Yuan Huanzhi.
Yuan Jun lost his father at an early age, but he devoted himself to studying. His family was poor and had no books. He often borrowed books from others to read, and he had to copy the borrowed books. He set a pace for himself, copying fifty pages every day. If the number of pages did not reach the specified number, he would not rest.
Yuan Jun's speech is dull, but he is good at diction.
When Emperor Gaozu's rebel army captured the capital, Xiao Hui, the king of Xianyang, was guarding Su'er in the east, and Yuan Jun followed the whole garrison and took charge of recording events.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
天监初，鄱阳国建，以峻为侍郎，从镇京口。
王迁郢州，兼都曹参军。
高祖雅好辞赋，时献文于南阙者相望焉，其藻丽可观，或见赏擢。
六年，峻乃拟扬雄《官箴》奏之。
高祖嘉焉，赐束帛。
除员外散骑侍郎，直文德学士省，抄《史记》、《汉书》各为二十卷。
又奉敕与陆倕各制《新阙铭》，辞多不载。
庾於陵，字子介，散骑常侍黔娄之弟也。
七岁能言玄理。
既长，清警博学有才思。
齐随王子隆为荆州，召为主簿，使与谢朓、宗夬抄撰群书。
子隆代还，又以为送故主簿。
子隆寻为明帝所害，僚吏畏避，莫有至者，唯於陵与夬独留，经理丧事。
始安王遥光为抚军，引为行参军，兼记室。
永元末，除东阳遂安令，为民吏所称。
天监初，为建康狱平，迁尚书工部郎，待诏文德殿。
出为湘州别驾，迁骠骑录事参军，兼中书通事舍人。
俄领南郡邑中正，拜太子洗马，舍人如故。
旧事，东宫官属，通为清选，洗马掌文翰，尤其清者。
近世用人，皆取甲族有才望，时於陵与周舍并擢充职，高祖曰： 官以人而清，岂限以甲族。
时论以为美。
俄迁散骑侍郎，改领荆州大中正。
累迁中书黄门侍郎，舍人、中正并如故。
出为宣毅晋安王长史、广陵太守，行府州事，以公事免。
复起为通直郎，寻除鸿胪卿，复领荆州大中正。
卒官，时年四十八。
文集十卷。
弟肩吾。
肩吾，字子慎。
八岁能赋诗，特为兄於陵所友爱。
初为晋安王国常侍，仍迁王宣惠府行参军。自是每王徙镇，肩吾常随府。
历王府中郎、云麾参军，并兼记室参军。
中大通三年，王为皇太子，兼东宫通事舍人，除安西湘东王录事参军，俄以本官领荆州大中正。
累迁中录事谘议参军、太子率更令、中庶子。
初，太宗在籓，雅好文章士，时肩吾与东海徐摛、吴郡陆杲、彭城刘遵、刘孝仪、仪弟孝威，同被赏接。
及居东宫，又开文德省，置学士，肩吾子信、摛子陵、吴郡张长公、北地傅弘、东海鲍至等充其选。
齐永明中，文士王融、谢朓、沈约文章始用四声，以为新变，至是转拘声韵，弥尚丽靡，复逾于往时。
时太子与湘东王书论之曰：
translation: 
In the early years of Tianjian, when the vassal state was established, he appointed Yuan Jun as his minister to follow him to guard Jingkou.
Wang Qian was appointed governor of Yingzhou and made Cao the capital of the army.
Gaozu was very fond of poetry. At that time, there was an endless stream of people submitting poems and essays to Gaozu in Nanque. Among them, the authors of poems and essays with gorgeous diction and appreciable words were sometimes rewarded or promoted.
In the sixth year of Tianjian, Yuan Locust imitated Dangbi and wrote "Guan Zhen" and dedicated it to Taizu.
Emperor Gaozu commended him and gave him five pieces of silk.
In addition to being appointed as a member of the Sanqi Shilang, Yuan Jun was appointed as a bachelor of the province. He copied twenty volumes each of "Historical Records" and "Moshu".
Following Emperor Gaozu's order, he and Lu Jue each wrote "Xinque Ming", but because the words were too long, they could not be included in the text.
Yu Yuling's courtesy name was Zijie. He was the younger brother of Qian Lou, who was often served by Sanqi.
When Yu Yuling was seven years old, he could discuss subtle principles with others.
As an adult, he was sharp-witted, knowledgeable and talented.
Xiao Zilong, the Sui King of Qi, was appointed as the governor of Jingzhou. He called Yu Yuling to be the chief bookkeeper and ordered him to copy and compile books together with Xie Tiao, Zong Yang and others.
Xiao Zilong was replaced in his post and returned to the capital. He also ordered Yu Yuling to be the master of farewell.
Xiao Zilong was killed by Emperor Ming soon after. Xiao Zilong's old staff and former officials avoided him out of fear. No one dared to deal with the funeral affairs. Only Yu Yuling and Zong Yang stayed to handle the funeral for Xiao Zilong.
Xiao Yaoguang, the king of Shi'an, was appointed to Fujun. He selected Yu Yuling to join the army and also serve as a recorder.
In the late years of Yongyuan, Yu Yuling was expelled and granted the title of Dongyang Sui'an Order. He was praised by the people and officials for his good management of the county.
In the early years of Tianjian, Yu Yuling was appointed as the official of Jiankang Prison, and he was moved to the post of Shangshu Gonglunlang, waiting for the imperial edict to Wende Hall.
He also left Beijing and served as a special driver in Xiangzhou, moved to the post of Huqi Lushi and joined the army, and also served as Zhongshu general secretary.
Soon after, he led the Zhongzheng of Nanjun County and worshiped him as the prince's horse washer. His position remained unchanged.
According to the old practice, the officials of the East Palace were all people known for their purity and elegance. Prince Xima, who was in charge of documents, was the most outstanding among them.
In modern times, the officials selected for the Shu Palace were all talented and famous scholars from aristocratic families. At that time, Yu Yuling, Yu Zhoushe and others were promoted to serve in the East Palace. Emperor Gaozu said: Appointment as an official requires a pure and elegant character, which cannot be limited to aristocratic families.
At that time, people thought this was a very accurate view.
Yu Yuling soon moved to the post of Minister of Sanqi and changed to the command of Dazhongzheng of Jingzhou.
He also accumulated merit and was promoted to the position of Minister of Huangmen of Zhongshu. His positions of Shiren and Zhongzheng remained unchanged.
Yu Yuling later left the capital and served as the chief historian of Jin'an King Xuanyi and the prefect of Guangling. He was responsible for the affairs of the prefecture and state, but was dismissed due to official business.
He was appointed as Tongzhilang, and soon he was awarded the title of Hongluqing, and also led the Dazhongzheng of Jingzhou.
Yu Yuling died during his tenure at the age of forty-eight.
Yu Yuling has ten volumes of collected works.
Yu Yuling's younger brother Yu Jianwu.
Yu Jian's name is Zi Shen.
He was able to compose poems when he was eight years old, and his elder brother Yu Yuling was particularly friendly to him.
Yu Jianwu first served as a permanent servant of the Kingdom of Jin'an, and then moved to the palace of King Xuanhui of Jin'an to join the army. From then on, every time the King of Jin'an moved the town, Yu Jianwu also followed the palace.
He successively served as the prince's lieutenant, Yunhui joined the army, and also joined the army as a secretary.
In the third year of Zhongdatong, the king of Jin'an became the crown prince, and Yu Jianwu also served as the general secretary of the East Palace. In addition, he was appointed as the official recorder of King Xiangshu of Anxi and joined the army. Soon he took charge of the Dazhongzheng of Jingzhou with his own official position.
After his meritorious service, he was moved to the post of Zhonglu Shi and consulted to join the army. The prince led the army to make more orders, and the prince became a concubine.
At the beginning, when Taizong was in the vassal state, he liked literary scholars very much. At that time, Yu Jianwuyu Shu Hai Xu Gao, Wujun Lu Dai, Pengcheng Liu Zun, Liu Xiaoyi, and Liu Xiaoyi's younger brother Liu Xiaowei were all appreciated and invited.
When Taizong became the crown prince, he also established the Wende Province and established bachelors. Yu Xin, son of Yu Jianwu, Xu Ling, son of Xu Go, Zhang Changgong of Wujun, Fu Hong of Beidi, Bao Zhi of Donghai and others were all outstanding talents who served as bachelors.
When Qi Yong asked next year, scribes Wang Rong, Xie Tiao, Shen Yue and others began to use the four tones changes in their articles, and new changes appeared when writing articles. By the time of Qi Yong, more emphasis was placed on the neatness of the rhyme, and more emphasis was placed on the beauty and beauty, and the requirements for the four tones in the articles were higher than before.
At that time, the prince wrote to King Xiangdong about this trend and said:


Chunk 4: 
original: 
吾辈亦无所游赏，止事披阅，性既好文，时复短咏。
虽是庸音，不能阁笔，有惭伎痒，更同故态。
比见京师文体，懦钝殊常，竞学浮疏，急为阐缓。
玄冬修夜，思所不得，既殊比兴，正背《风》、《骚》。
若夫六典三礼，所施则有地；吉凶嘉宾，用之则有所。
未闻吟咏情性，反拟《内则》之篇；操笔写志，更摹《酒诰》之作；迟迟春日，翻学《归藏》；湛湛江水，遂同《大传》。
吾既拙于为文，不敢轻有掎摭。
但以当世之作，历方古之才人，远则扬、马、曹、王，近则潘、陆、颜、谢，而观其遣辞用心，了不相似。
若以今文为是，则古文为非；若昔贤可称，则今体宜弃。
俱为盍各，则未之敢许。
又时有效谢康乐、裴鸿胪文者，亦颇有惑焉。
何者？
谢客吐言天拔，出于自然，时有不拘，是其糟粕；裴氏乃是良史之才，了无篇什之美。
是为学谢则不届其精华，但得其冗长；师裴则蔑绝其所长，惟得其所短。
谢故巧不可阶，裴亦质不宜慕。
故胸驰臆断之侣，好名忘实之类，方分肉于仁兽，逞郤克于邯郸，入鲍忘臭，效尤致祸。
决羽谢生，岂三千之可及；伏膺裴氏，惧两唐之不传。
故玉徽金铣，反为拙目所嗤；《巴人下里》，更合郢中之听。《阳春》高而不和，妙声绝而不寻。
竟不精讨锱铢，核量文质，有异《巧心》，终愧妍手。
translation: 
We people don't have the hobby of traveling. We only know how to write books on wooden boards. We like to write articles and recite short poems from time to time.
Although it is a mediocre voice, I cannot stop writing. Although I feel ashamed when I feel itchy, I cannot avoid relapse into my old ways.
Recently, I have seen that the articles circulating in the capital are particularly weak and weak. The literati are vying to imitate the style of flashy and unrealistic, and are vying to imitate weak and weak works.
Faced with this trend, during the long winter nights, I thought hard but could not figure out that this trend was not consistent with the techniques of fu, comparison and xing, and also deviated from the style of "The Book of Songs" and "Chu Ci".
As for the six rituals for governing the country and the three rituals for worshiping the heaven and earth ancestral temples, they are implemented within a certain scope; the five rituals for good and bad luck, guests, and soldiers are used for certain occasions.
If you want to chant your own feelings, you should imitate the chapters of "Nei Zhe"; if you write about your ambitions, you should imitate the structure of "Jiu Gao"; if you describe the scenery of spring outing, you should learn the writing method of "Gui Zang"; if you describe the magnificence of mountains and rivers, you should use the same method as "Zhou Yi Da Zhuan", these are all things I have never heard of.
Since I am rather clumsy at writing poems and compositions, I naturally dare not criticize other people's articles at will.
Just compare contemporary works of poetry and prose with the works of ancient talents one by one. The distant ones include Yang Xiong, Sima Xiangru, Cao Zhi, and Wang Can, and the more recent ones include Lu Zan, Yan Zhiwa, and Xie Lingyun. You will see that the terms and concepts of today's and ancients are completely different.
If you think the current poetry is correct, then the ancient poetry does not meet the requirements; if the sages of the past are worthy of praise, then the current style of poetry should be abandoned.
I cannot agree with the idea that everyone has their own interests and should coexist.
From time to time, there are people who imitate the poems and essays of Xie Chenle and Yuan Bianlin, which is also very confusing.
Why?
Xie Kangle's writing is outstanding and superb, all out of nature, but informality often appears, which is his dregs; Pei Hongshan is a talented writer of history, but he has no beauty in his words.
Therefore, learning Xie cannot learn his essence, but only learns his shortcomings; learning Pei abandons his strengths and only learns his shortcomings.
Xie Wen's magic cannot be achieved, and Pei Wen's simplicity should not be admired.
Therefore, people who are just imagining and forgetting their true identity want to share the meat for the Qilin Ren beast to eat, and want Chuke of the Jin State to do whatever they want in Handan of the Zhao State. It is just a fantasy.
Going into an abalone house for a long time without smelling its smell and blindly following suit will often lead to disaster.
If you strive to catch up with Xie Kangle, you can catch up even if you just imitate sentences such as "Three thousand people spread across Chi County"; if you blindly admire Pei Honglu, you will worry that figures like Tang Lin and Tang Zun of the Han Dynasty will not be biographed. Therefore, the exquisite Qin and the shining gold are despised by short-sighted people; popular music such as "Ba Ren" and "Xia Li" are better suited to the preferences of the Yingzhong audience.
The song "Yangchun" is elegant but no one agrees with it. After the beautiful singing is over, no one continues it. They don't study the details of the work carefully and comprehensively measure the literary simplicity of the work. It is different from "Qiao Xin", and I feel ashamed in the face of a master.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
是以握瑜怀玉之士，瞻郑邦而知退；章甫翠履之人，望闽乡而叹息。
诗既若此，笔又如之。
徒以烟墨不言，受其驱染；纸札无情，任其摇襞。
甚矣哉，文之横流，一至于此！
至如近世谢朓、沈约之诗，任昉、陆倕之笔，斯实文章之冠冕，述作之楷模。
张士简之赋，周升逸之辩，亦成佳手，难可复遇。
文章未坠，必有英绝；领袖之者，非弟而谁。
每欲论之，无可与语，思言子建，一共商榷。
辩兹清浊，使如泾、渭；论兹月旦，类彼汝南。
硃丹既定，雌黄有别，使夫怀鼠知惭，滥竽自耻。
譬斯袁绍，畏见子将；同彼盗牛，遥羞王烈。
相思不见，我劳如何。
太清中，侯景寇陷京都；及太宗即位，以肩吾为度支尚书。
时上流诸蕃，并据州拒景，景矫诏遣肩吾使江州，喻当阳公大心，大心寻举州降贼。肩吾因逃入建昌界，久之，方得赴江陵，未几卒。
文集行于世。
刘昭，字宣卿，平原高唐人，晋太尉实九世孙也。
祖伯龙，居父忧以孝闻，宋武帝敕皇太子诸王并往吊慰，官至少府卿。
父彪，齐征虏晋安王记室。
昭幼清警，七岁通《老》、《庄》义。
既长，勤学善属文，外兄江淹早相称赏。
天监初，起家奉朝请，累迁征北行参军、尚书仓部郎，寻除无锡令。
translation: 
Therefore, when the scholars with noble moral character and attention to ethics saw Zheng from afar, they would avoid the voice of Zheng and Wei and retreat; those who wore Zhangfu crowns and wore pearls and green shoes could only sigh longly when they saw the Yue people walking in Minxiang with broken hair and tattoos.
This is already the case with poetry, and the same situation exists with literature and poetry.
Just because the pine smoke and ink cannot speak, it can only be painted and dyed by others; the paper has no emotion and can be written by the literati.
It’s so amazing that the disaster of poetry has reached such an extent!
As for the recent poems by Metabolism Tiao and Shen Yue, as well as the articles by Ren Fang and Lu Chui, Qian is indeed the crown of poetry and a model for writing.
The poems written by Zhang Shijian and the debates written by Zhou Shengyi also made these two good writers. It is difficult to meet such talented people again.
If the system of rituals and music and the laws of cultural relics have not collapsed, there will definitely be handsome and outstanding talents. As the leader of these talents, who else can you be except my brother?
I often want to discuss these things, but there is no one with whom I can talk. You are Cao Zijian of our family, so I want to discuss it with you.
Distinguish the pure and turbid in the water, making them as clear as the Jing River and the Wei River; comment on the right and wrong in it, just like Xu Shao and Xu Jing Runan commented on the first day of the month.
The ink pen has been written, but the evaluation will be different. Let those who use rats as jade stones know the shame, and let those who use Yu Yu to make up for the numbers know their own shame.
You are like Yuan Shao, who is afraid that his luxurious chariots and horses will be seen by Xu Zijiang; he is also like a cattle rustler who is ashamed that his crime will be known to Wang Lie.
I have missed you for a long time but can’t see you. How can I pass away my sorrow?
During the Taiqing period, Hou Jing invaded and captured the capital. When Taizong ascended the throne, he ordered Yu Jianwu to be the Minister of Duzhi.
At that time, all the vassal kings in the upper reaches of the Yangtze River stood firm in their respective prefectures and counties to resist Hou Jing. Hou Jing used the emperor's order to send Yu Jianwu as an envoy to Jiangzhou to persuade Xiao Daxin, Duke of Dangyang, to surrender. Xiao Daxin soon led the state to surrender to Hou Jing, and Yu Jianwu fled into Jianchang. It took a long time for him to rush to Jiangling, but he died soon after.
Yu Jianwu has a collection of essays circulated in the world.
Liu Zhao, whose courtesy name was Xuanqing, was from Gaotang in Pingyuan. He was the ninth generation descendant of Liu Ding, the Taiwei of Jin Dynasty.
His grandfather Liu Bolong was famous for his filial piety during the funeral for his father. Emperor Wu of the Song Dynasty ordered the crown prince and other kings to go to his home to express condolences. Liu Bolong's official position was promoted to the rank of minister of government.
Liu Zhao's father, Liu Biao, was in charge of the Imperial Records of Jin'an during the Qi Dynasty.
Liu Zhao was smart and alert since he was a child. He could understand the meaning of "Lao Han" and "Zhuangzi" at the age of seven.
When he grew up, he studied more diligently and was good at writing articles. His cousin Jiang Yan appreciated him and praised him very early.
In the early years of Tianjian, Liu Zhaochu became an official and was invited by the court. After his meritorious service, he was promoted to the north and joined the army.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
历为宣惠豫章王、中军临川王记室。
初，昭伯父肜集众家《晋书》注干宝《晋纪》为四十卷，至昭又集《后汉》同异以注范晔书，世称博悉。
迁通直郎，出为剡令，卒官。
《集注后汉》一百八十卷，《幼童传》十卷，文集十卷。
子縚，字言明。亦好学，通《三礼》。
大同中，为尚书祠部郎，寻去职，不复仕。
縚弟缓，字含度，少知名。
历官安西湘东王记室，时西府盛集文学，缓居其首。
除通直郎，俄迁镇南湘东王中录事，复随府江州，卒。
何逊，字仲言，东海郯人也。
曾祖承天，宋御史中丞。
祖翼，员外郎。
父询，齐太尉中兵参军。
逊八岁能赋诗，弱冠，州举秀才。南乡范云见其对策，大相称赏，因结忘年交好。
自是一文一咏，云辄嗟赏，谓所亲曰： 顷观文人，质则过儒，丽则伤俗；其能含清浊，中今古，见之何生矣。
沈约亦爱其文，尝谓逊曰： 吾每读卿诗，一日三复，犹不能已。
其为名流所称如此。
天监中，起家奉朝请，迁中卫建安王水曹行参军，兼记室。
王爱文学之士，日与游宴，及迁江州，逊犹掌书记。
还为安西安成王参军事，兼尚书水部郎，母忧去职。
服阕，除仁威庐陵王记室，复随府江州，未几卒。
东海王僧孺集其文为八卷。
初，逊文章与刘孝绰并见重于世，世谓之 何刘 。
世祖著论论之云： 诗多而能者沈约，少而能者谢朓、何逊。
时有会稽虞骞，工为五言诗，名与逊相埒，官至王国侍郎。
其后又有会稽孔翁归、济阳江避，并为南平王大司马府记室。
翁归亦工为诗，避博学有思理，更注《论语》、《孝经》。
二人并有文集。
钟嵘，字仲伟，颍川长社人，晋侍中雅七世孙也。
父蹈，齐中军参军。
嵘与兄岏、弟屿并好学，有思理。
嵘，齐永明中为国子生，明《周易》，卫军王俭领祭酒，颇赏接之。
举本州秀才。
起家王国侍郎，迁抚军行参军，出为安国令。
永元末，除司徒行参军。
天监初，制度虽革，而日不暇给，嵘乃言曰： 永元肇乱，坐弄天爵，勋非即戎，官以贿就。
挥一金而取九列，寄片札以招六校；骑都塞市，郎将填街。
服既缨组，尚为臧获之事；职唯黄散，犹躬胥徒之役。
translation: 
He successively served as the Prince of Yuzhang, Xuanhui, and the Prince of Linchuan, Zhongjun.
At first, Liu Zhao's uncle Liu Wei collected the "Books of Jin" from various schools to annotate Qian Shi's "Ji Ji", a total of forty volumes. By the time of the Han Dynasty, Liu Zhao also collected the differences in the "Books of Hou Mo" from various schools to annotate Fan Ye's "Book of Hou Mo". People at that time called the Japanese annotations extensive and comprehensive.
Liu Zhao moved to the post of Tongzhilang and left the capital to serve as Liu Ling. He died during his tenure.
Liu Zhao wrote 180 volumes of "Collected Comments on Houmo", 10 volumes of "Biography of Young Children", and 10 volumes of Collected Works.
Liu Sui, the son of Liu Zhao, was well-spoken and fond of learning, and was proficient in the "Three Rites".
During the Datong period, Liu Juan was appointed minister of the Shangshu Temple, but soon resigned and no longer served as an official.
Liu Sui's younger brother, Liu Sui, also known as Handu, has been famous since he was a child.
He once served as the royal secretary of Xiangdong in Anxi. At that time, there were many literary people gathered in the Xifu, among whom Liu Sui was at the top.
Liu Sui was dismissed and granted the title of Tongzhilang. Soon he moved to Zhennan and was appointed as the official recorder of the affairs of the King of Eastern Hunan Province. He also came with the government and died in Jiangzhou.
He Xun, courtesy name Zhongyan, was born in Tan County, Donghai.
His great-grandfather He Chengtian was the censor Zhongcheng during the Song Dynasty.
Grandfather He Yi was appointed Yuanwailang.
His father, He Xun, served as a lieutenant in the Qi Dynasty and joined the army.
He Xun could compose poems at the age of eight, and was elected as a scholar by the state at the age of 20. Fan Yun of Nanxiang saw the strategies written by He Xun and greatly appreciated them, so he and He Xun formed a lifelong friendship.
From then on, Fan Yun praised every article and poem written by He Xun after seeing it. Fan Yun said to those close to him: Looking at the poems and essays of these literati recently, the simple ones are like Confucian scholars preaching scriptures, and the extravagant ones are a bit immoral. The ability to contain the aura of heaven and earth and include the principles of modern and ancient times can only be seen in He Sheng's poems.
Shen Yue also liked He Xun's poems. He once said to He Xun: Every time I read your poems, I repeat them many times a day, and I still can't get enough of them.
He Xun was praised by celebrities to such an extent.
During the Tianjian period, He Xun took up an official position at home and was invited by the court to move to the Zhongwei Jian'an Wangshui Cao Xing to join the army and also serve as the recorder's office.
King Jian'an loved literary scholars and entertained and feasted with them every day. King Jian'an moved to Jiangzhou, and He Xun was still the secretary in charge.
He Xun returned to the capital and served as King Cheng of Anxi to join the military affairs and serve as Minister of the Ministry of Water. He resigned because of his mother's mourning.
When the mourning period expired, He Xun was dismissed and granted the title of Renwei Luling Prince Ji. He then followed the royal family to Jiangzhou, where he died not long after.
Wang Sengru of the East China Sea collected He Xun's poems and essays into eight volumes.
At the beginning, both He Xun's poems and Liu Xiaochuo's poems were valued by the world, and the world called them "He Liu".
Shizu wrote an article commenting on He Xun, saying: Shen Yue is the one who has many poems but shows his talent; Xie Tiao and He Xun are the ones who show his talent with few poems.
At that time, there was Yu Qian in Kuaiji, who was good at writing five-character poems. His reputation was equal to that of He Xun, and his official position was that of the minister of the kingdom.
Later, there were Kong Wenggui from Kuaiji and Jiangbi from Jiyang, both of whom served as the secretary of the Grand Sima Mansion of Nanping King.
Kong Wenggui was also good at poetry. Jiang Bi was erudite and talented in reasoning. He also wrote annotations for the Analects and the Classic of Filial Piety.
Both men have collected works.
Zhong Rong, whose courtesy name was Zhongwei, was from Changshe, Yingchuan. He was the seventh generation descendant of Zhong Bi, a minister of Jin Dynasty.
His father, Zhong Chu, served in the Zhongjun Army during the Qi Dynasty.
Zhong Rong, his elder brother Zhong Xian and his younger brother Zhong Yu are all very studious, good at thinking and discerning.
Zhong Rong was born in the reign of Emperor Yongming of Qi Dynasty, and he was proficient in "Book of Changes". General Wang Jian of the Wei Army led the Emperor to offer wine to him. He admired Zhong Rong very much and highly recommended him.
Zhong Rong was promoted as a scholar of the state.
He first became an official and served as the minister of the kingdom, moved to Fujunxing to join the army, and left the capital to serve as the order of Anguo.
In the last years of Yongyuan, Zhong Rong was dismissed and allowed Situ Xing to join the army.
In the early years of Tianjian, although the etiquette and regulations were changed, things were busy and there was no time to spare. Zhong Rong wrote a letter and said: The cause of the chaos in the Yongyuan period was the arbitrary treatment of the imperial titles. Honors were not obtained by participating in wars, but officials were obtained by bribery.
By squandering gold and silver, one can obtain the rank of Jiuqing, by relying on letters of request, one can join the ranks of military officers, the streets will be full of riding captains, and the streets will be full of lieutenants.
Wearing the attire of an official, he still works as a slave; although his position is such as Huangmen, Sanqi, etc., he still personally undertakes the errands of the government officials.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
名实淆紊，兹焉莫甚。
臣愚谓军官是素族士人，自有清贯，而因斯受爵，一宜削除，以惩侥竞。
若吏姓寒人，听极其门品，不当因军，遂滥清级。
若侨杂伧楚，应在绥附，正宜严断禄力，绝其妨正，直乞虚号而已。
谨竭愚忠，不恤众口。
敕付尚书行之。
迁中军临川王行参军。
衡阳王元简出守会稽，引为宁朔记室，专掌文翰。
时居士何胤筑室若邪山，山发洪水，漂拔树石，此室独存。元简命嵘作《瑞室颂》以旌表之，辞甚典丽，选西中郎晋安王记室。
嵘尝品古今五言诗，论其优劣，名为《诗评》。
其序曰：气之动物，物之感人，故摇荡性情，形诸舞咏。
欲以照烛三才，辉丽万有，灵祇待之以致飨，幽微藉之以昭告。动天地，感鬼神，莫近于诗。
昔《南风》之辞，《卿云》之颂，厥义夐矣。
《夏歌》曰 郁陶乎予心 ，楚谣云 名余曰正则 ，虽诗体未全，然略是五言之滥觞也。
逮汉李陵，始著五言之目。
古诗眇邈，人代难详，推其文体，固是炎汉之制，非衰周之倡也。
自王、扬、枚、马之徒，辞赋竞爽，而吟咏靡闻。从李都尉讫班婕妤，将百年间，有妇人焉，一人而已。
诗人之风，顿已缺丧。
东京二百载中，唯有班固《咏史》，质木无文致。
降及建安，曹公父子，笃好斯文；平原兄弟，郁为文栋；刘桢、王粲，为其羽冀。
次有攀龙托凤，自致于属车者，盖将百计。
translation: 
There is no greater confusion between name and reality than sending.
I think that if an officer is a member of the noble family for generations, his family has its own reputation. If he only relies on this to obtain the title, then all of them should be eliminated, so as to serve as a warning to those who are greedy for profit and salary.
If they come from a family of officials and have a humble background, they should be allowed to work hard in their official career according to their family background, and they should not be given military positions in vain, causing the proliferation of noble positions.
If northerners living abroad are employed, they should be given extra care and comfort, but their salaries should be strictly controlled and they are not allowed to interfere with government affairs. They are only granted false posts.
I just try my best and show my loyalty, regardless of the opinions of others.
Emperor Gaozu ordered that the letter of deportation be handed over to the Minister of Finance for execution.
Zhong Zhu moved to the army and joined the army.
Fu Jiulu Wuyan left the capital and took up a post in Heshan, and promoted Zhong Li to Ning Shuo's Ji Office, where he was responsible for documents.
At that time, the layman He Yin was building a stone chamber in Ruoxie Mountain. A flash flood broke out and washed away the stones and trees. Only He Yin's stone chamber was not washed away. Xiao Yuanjian ordered Zhong Rong to write "Ode to the Ruoshi" to commend and publicize the event. The diction was very elegant and gorgeous. Zhong Rong was also selected to be awarded the title of "Xizhonglang" and "Jin'an Wangji".
Zhong Rong once reviewed ancient and modern five-character poems and commented on their merits and demerits, which he named "Poetry Criticism".
The preface of "Poetry Review" says: The change of solar terms makes all things sprout, and the changes and rises and declines of all things make people feel.
So there is a surge of emotion, and this emotion is expressed in singing and dancing. If you want to use it to illuminate the three talents of heaven and earth, reflect all things in the world, summon the gods to enjoy the sacrifices, tell the heavens about the subtleties of the world, alarm the heaven and earth, and influence the ghosts and gods, there is nothing more effective than poetry.
In the past, the lyrics of "South Wind" and the hymn of "Qing Yun" during the reign of Yu and Shun had far-reaching meanings.
"Summer Song" says that "the heart is full of joy", and Chu Di Ge flatters that "the name is more than just rules". Although the poems as a whole are not complete enough, they can generally be regarded as the origin of five-character poetry.
It was not until Li Ling of the Mo Dynasty that he created the name of five-character poetry.
The era of ancient poems is so long ago that it is difficult to clearly examine their author and writing time. However, judging from its content and style, it should be a work of Modai, not a work of the weekend decline period.
Since Wang Bao, Yang Xiong, Mei Cheng, Sima Xiangru and others, they have all competed in the creation of poems and poems, each showing his or her own talents, but poetry recitation has never been heard of. From Li Ling and Li Duwei to Ban Jieyu, in nearly a hundred years, although there were women among them, there was only one person.
The trend of poetry writing suddenly stopped.
In the two hundred years of the Later Han Dynasty, there were only Ban Gu's "Ode to History" poems, which were simple and without literary talent.
During the Jian'an period, Cao Cao and his son loved literature; Cao Zhi's brothers, with their prolific works, were actually pillars of the literary world; Liu Zhen and Wang Can grew in power around them.
There are also nearly a hundred people who follow them voluntarily.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
彬彬之盛，大备于时矣！
尔后陵迟衰微，讫于有晋。
太康中，三张二陆，两潘一左，勃尔复兴，踵武前王，风流未沫，亦文章之中兴也。
永嘉时，贵黄、老，尚虚谈，于时篇什，理过其辞，淡乎寡味。
爰及江表，微波尚传，孙绰、许询、桓、庾诸公，皆平典似《道德论》，建安之风尽矣。
先是郭景纯用俊上之才，创变其体；刘越石仗清刚之气，赞成厥美。
然彼众我寡，未能动俗。
逮义熙中，谢益寿斐然继作；元嘉初，有谢灵运，才高辞盛，富艳难踪，固已含跨刘、郭，陵轹潘、左。
故知陈思为建安之杰，公干、仲宣为辅；陆机为太康之英，安仁、景阳为辅；谢客为元嘉之雄，颜延年为辅：此皆五言之冠冕，文辞之命世。
夫四言文约意广，取效《风》、《骚》，便可多得，每苦文烦而意少，故世罕习焉。
五言居文辞之要，是众作之有滋味者也，故云会于流俗。岂不以指事遣形，穷情写物，最为详切者邪！
故《诗》有六义焉，一曰兴，二曰比，三曰赋。
文已尽而意有余，兴也；因物喻志，比也；直书其事，寓言写物，赋也。
弘斯三义，酌而用之，干之以风力，润之以丹采，使味之者无极，闻之者动心，是诗之至也。
若专用比、兴，则患在意深，意深则辞踬。
若但用赋体，则患在意浮，意浮则文散。嬉成流移，文无止泊，有芜漫之累矣。
translation: 
The grand occasion of abundant talents can be regarded as appearing in this era.
After the Rebellion, the literary world gradually declined until the Jin Dynasty.
During the Taikang period, Zhang Zai, Zhang Xie, Zhang Hua, Lu Ji, Lu Yun, Pan Yue, Pan Ni, and Zuo Si all rose up, revived the literary world, followed Cao and his son, and inherited the lingering charm of the Jian'an period. Qian was also the period of the resurgence of five-character poetry.
In the Yongjia era, the theories of Huang and Lao were valued and the style of metaphysical poetry was advocated. The poetry works of this period focused on metaphysical reasoning rather than content and literary talent, making them boring to read.
As for when the Jin Dynasty moved south, the aftermath of this trend still spread. The works of Sun Chuo, Xu Xun, Huan Wei, Yu You and others were all simple and flat, like "On Moral Theory", and the Jian'an style was completely lost.
Before this, Guo Jingchun relied on his outstanding talent to innovate the poetry style; Liu Yueshi relied on his pure and vigorous style to contribute to the fire.
But there are many conservatives and few revolutionaries, so they are unable to influence the trend of the literary world.
In the Yixi period, Xie Yishou followed with his works of outstanding literary talent; in the early Yuanjia period, Xie Lingyun appeared. He had superb poetic talent, rich creations, and rich and gorgeous diction. No one could compare with him. He had actually surpassed Liu Yueshi and Guo Jingchun, and overwhelmed Pan Yue and Zuo Si.
It can be seen from this that Chen Si Wang Cao Zhi was an outstanding talent in the Jian'an period, and Liu Gongqian and Wang Zhongxuan strengthened his momentum; Lu Ji was an elite in the Taikang period, with Pan Anren and Zhang Jingyang as his right and left arms; Xie Lingyun was a talented person in the Yuanjia period, and Yan Yannian was his assistant. These people are all leading figures in five-character poetry, and they are outstanding talents whose works have become famous.
When it comes to four-character poems, the words are simple but profound. If you can imitate the "Book of Songs" and Chu Ci, you can gain a lot. However, the words are often cumbersome and the content of expression is very thin, so there are very few people in the world who go to school to write four-character poems.
Five-character poetry occupies a key position in poetry and is the most interesting among various genres. Isn't it because it meets the requirements of ordinary people because it is the most detailed and appropriate genre in describing situations, expressing emotions, and depicting things?
Therefore, "Shi" has six meanings, the first of which is Xing, the second is Fu, and the third is Bi.
When the words are finished but the meaning is not fulfilled, it is Xing; to use other things to express one's thoughts is Bi; to describe things directly and use words to describe the situation of things is Fu.
Promote the three expression techniques of "Poetry", use them according to the situation, use style to enhance the content of the poem, and use literary grace to embellish the diction of the poem, so that those who taste the poem will feel that it is endless, and those who hear the poem will be emotionally moved. This is a superior work of poetry.
If you only use analogy and euphemism, the problem is that the meaning is too profound. The profound meaning will make people feel that the diction is difficult.
If only Fu is used, then the problem is that the meaning is simple. If the meaning is simple, the diction will appear loose, so it will be slick and out of control, showing the problem of chaos.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
若乃春风春鸟，秋月秋蝉，夏云暑雨，冬月祁寒，斯四候之感诸诗者也。
嘉会寄诗以亲，离群托诗以怨。
至于楚臣去境，汉妾辞宫；或骨横朔野，或魂逐飞蓬；或负戈外戍，或杀气雄边；塞客衣单，霜闺泪尽。
又士有解佩出朝，一去忘反；女有扬蛾入宠，再盼倾国。
凡斯种种，感荡心灵，非陈诗何以展其义，非长歌何以释其情？故曰： 《诗》可以群，可以怨。
使穷贱易安，幽居靡闷，莫尚于诗矣。
故辞人作者，罔不爱好。
今之士俗，斯风炽矣。
裁能胜衣，甫就小学，必甘心而驰骛焉。
于是庸音杂体，各为家法。
至于膏腴子弟，耻文不逮，终朝点缀，分夜呻吟，独观谓为警策，众视终沦平钝。
次有轻荡之徒，笑曹、刘为古拙，谓鲍昭羲皇上人，谢朓今古独步；而师鲍昭终不及 日中市朝满 ，学谢朓劣得 黄鸟度青枝 。
徒自弃于高听，无涉于文流矣。
嵘观王公搢绅之士，每博论之余，何尝不以诗为口实，随其嗜欲，商榷不同。淄渑并泛，硃紫相夺，喧哗竞起，准的无依。
近彭城刘士章，俊赏之士，疾其淆乱，欲为当世诗品，口陈标榜，其文未遂，嵘感而作焉。
昔九品论人，《七略》裁士，校以宾实，诚多未值；至若诗之为技，较尔可知，以类推之，殆同博弈。
translation: 
As for the spring breeze and spring birds, the autumn moon and autumn cicadas, the summer clouds and hot rain, and the midwinter cold, these are the changes in the four seasons that make people feel and write them in poems.
Poems are used to express friendship during festive events, and poems are used to express sorrow and resentment when parting with friends.
As for the Chu minister Qu Yuan who was exiled, and the Han concubine Zhaojun who left the palace, some people's corpses lay outside the fortress, some people's souls flew into the air, some carried troops to guard the border, and some were powerful in the frontier fortress. The wanderers in the frontier fortress were cold and naked, and the women in the boudoir shed tears for their loved ones.
There were also scholars who resigned from their posts and went out to court, never to return; beautiful women entered the palace and were favored, captivating the city and the country.
All these situations arouse people's hearts. How can we express our thoughts without chanting poetry, and how can we express our feelings without chanting loudly? Therefore, "Poetry" can communicate everyone's emotions and express sorrow and sorrow.
To bring stability to people who are in embarrassment and poverty, and to make people who live in solitude and seclusion feel less bored, nothing can play this role better than poetry.
Therefore, there is no one among the literati who does not like poetry.
Nowadays, this kind of love for poetry is even more popular among scholars and common people.
Children who have just learned to dress and walk, children who have just entered school will definitely talk about it and gallop in the field of poetry.
Therefore, mediocre works and chaotic sentences all appear as poetic schools.
As for the rich children, they feel ashamed that their poems are not as good as others. They revise them all day long and chant them day and night. In their own eyes, they think they are refined and appropriate warning sentences, but in everyone's eyes, they are just shallow, clumsy and mediocre works.
There were even some frivolous and arrogant people who ridiculed Jian Zhi and Liu Zhen for their old-fashioned and poor poetry. They believed that Bao Zhao was a quiet and leisurely Emperor Xi, and that Xie Tiao was unparalleled in ancient and modern times. However, they could not catch up with the sentence "The market in Japan is full of people in the middle of the day" after imitating Bao Zhao, and they only learned sentences such as "The yellow bird crosses the green branches" after learning from Xie Tiao.
These people just abandon their brilliant opinions and cannot enter the field of literature.
I see those princes, nobles, scholar-bureaucrats, and the like, who often use poetry as an excuse to talk about politics, follow their own wishes, put forward different opinions, confuse things of completely different natures, reverse the positions of evil and good, and argue endlessly without accurate standards.
Recently, Pengcheng Xingtong was a scholar who was proficient in appreciation. He was dissatisfied with the chaotic situation and wanted to write a contemporary poem. He only criticized it verbally, but failed to write it down. I was influenced by him and wrote a "Poetry Review".
In the past, there was a method of classifying commentators into nine grades, and the "Qilue" also judged the grade of scholars. However, there are many inappropriate places in comparing their ranking with the actual situation. As for poetry writing skills, you can clearly know the pros and cons by comparing them. Using similar things to illustrate them is probably similar to playing chess.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
方今皇帝资生知之上才，体沈郁之幽思，文丽日月，学究天人，昔在贵游，已为称首；况八枿既掩，风靡云蒸，抱玉者连肩，握珠者踵武。固以睨汉、魏而弗顾，吞晋、宋于胸中。
谅非农歌辕议，敢致流别。
嵘之今录，庶周游于闾里，均之于谈笑耳。
顷之，卒官。
岏，字长岳，官至府参军、建康平。
著《良吏传》十卷。
屿，字季望，永嘉郡丞。
天监十五年，敕学士撰《遍略》，屿亦预焉。
兄弟并有文集。
周兴嗣，字思纂，陈郡项人，汉太子太傅堪后也。
高祖凝，晋征西府参军、宜都太守。
兴嗣世居姑孰。
年十三，游学京师，积十余载，遂博通记传，善属文。
尝步自姑孰，投宿逆旅，夜有人谓之曰： 子才学迈世，初当见识贵臣，卒被知英主。
言终，不测所之。
齐隆昌中，侍中谢朏为吴兴太守，唯与兴嗣谈文史而已。
及罢郡还，因大相称荐。
本州举秀才，除桂阳郡丞，太守王嵘素相赏好，礼之甚厚。
高祖革命，兴嗣奏《休平赋》，其文甚美，高祖嘉之。
拜安成王国侍郎，直华林省。
其年，河南献儛马，诏兴嗣与待诏到沆、张率为赋，高祖以兴嗣为工。
擢员外散骑侍郎，进直文德、寿光省。
是时，高祖以三桥旧宅为光宅寺，敕兴嗣与陆倕各制寺碑。及成俱奏，高祖用兴嗣所制者。
translation: 
The current emperor, with his innate talents and ability to understand profound and subtle emotions, his writings can shine like the sun and the moon, and his knowledge can understand the principles of humanity and nature. In the past, before he ascended the throne, he was already known as the leader in the literary world. , not to mention that now that the world has been unified, talented people have risen up and gathered one after another, and handsome people holding jade and pearls have emerged one after another. They have already looked down on Han and Wei, and no longer take them seriously; they have swallowed up Jin and Song, and feel they are one step ahead.
Such a grand occasion is indeed not based on folk songs and street talk, so we dare to differentiate.
The words I have collected now can probably only be circulated in the streets and alleys of the countryside, and are equivalent to gossip and jokes.
Soon, Zhong Rong died during his tenure.
Zhong Yan's courtesy name was Changyue, and he was promoted to the government to join the army and Jiankangping.
He is the author of ten volumes of "Biography of Good Officials".
Zhongyu, whose courtesy name was Ji Wang, was appointed as the county magistrate of Yongjia County.
In the fifteenth year of Tianjian, Emperor Gaozu ordered his bachelor to compile "Qilue", and Zhong Yu also participated in the compilation.
Both brothers have anthologies.
Zhou Xingsi, also known as Si Zuan, was a native of Xiang County, Chen County. He was a descendant of Zhou Kan, the prince of Mo.
His great-great-grandfather Zhou Ning served as a member of the army in Zhengxi Prefecture and the governor of Yidu during the Jin Dynasty.
Zhou Xingsi lived in Gushe for generations.
When he was thirteen years old, he went to the capital to study. He spent more than ten years in total, and eventually read extensively and became proficient in historical books and was good at writing articles.
Zhou Xingsi once traveled from Gushu and stayed in a hotel. Someone said to him at night: Your talents and learning surpass those of contemporary people. You were first appreciated by noble ministers and finally appreciated by the British Lord.
After finishing speaking, the speaker disappeared.
During the Longchang period of Qi Dynasty, Xie Li, the servant, was appointed as the prefect of Wuxing. He only talked about literature and history with Zhou Xingsi.
When Xie Li was relieved of his duties as prefect and returned to the capital, he praised Zhou Xingsi and recommended him.
The state promoted Zhou Xingsi as a scholar, and Zhou Xingsi was dismissed and conferred the title of Cheng Cheng of Guiyang County. The prefect Wang Rong always appreciated him and treated him with great courtesy.
Emperor Gaozu changed his destiny and established the Liang Dynasty. Zhou Xingsi contributed "Xiuping Fu". The writing is beautiful and Gaozu admired it very much.
Zhou Xingsi was worshiped as the Minister of Ancheng Kingdom and went directly to Hualin Province.
That year, Henan presented a dancing horse. Emperor Gaozu went to Shao and Zhou Xingsi, together with Daizhao Daohang and Zhang Shu, wrote a poem praising the event. After the three of them finished the manuscript, Emperor Gaozu thought Zhou Xingsi's poem was the most exquisite.
Zhou Xingsi was promoted to the rank of Minister of Sanqi, and was promoted to Wende and Shouguang provinces.
At that time, Emperor Gaozu renovated his old residence in Sanqiao into Guangzhai Temple, and ordered Zhou Xingtu and Lu Ren to write the temple's inscriptions respectively. After writing, the two of them presented it to Emperor Gaozu together, and Emperor Gaozu chose the inscription written by Zhou Xingsi.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
自是《铜表铭》、《栅塘碣》、《北伐檄》、《次韵王羲之书千字》，并使兴嗣为文；每奏，高祖辄称善，加赐金帛。
九年，除新安郡丞，秩满，复为员外散骑侍郎，佐撰国史。
十二年，迁给事中，撰文如故。
兴嗣两手先患风疽，是年又染疠疾，左目盲，高祖抚其手，嗟曰： 斯人也而有斯疾也！
手疏治疽方以赐之。
其见惜如此。
任昉又爱其才，常言曰： 周兴嗣若无疾，旬日当至御史中丞。
十四年，除临川郡丞。
十七年，复为给事中，直西省。
左卫率周舍奉敕注高祖所制历代赋，启兴嗣助焉。
普通二年，卒。
所撰《皇帝实录》、《皇德记》、《起居注》、《职仪》等百余卷，文集十卷。
吴均，字叔庠，吴兴故鄣人也。
家世寒贱，至均好学有俊才。沈约尝见均文，颇相称赏。
天监初，柳恽为吴兴，召补主簿，日引与赋诗。
均文体清拔有古气，好事者或斅之，谓为 吴均体 。
建安王伟为扬州，引兼记室，掌文翰。
王迁江州，补国侍郎，兼府城局。
还除奉朝请。
先是，均表求撰《齐春秋》。书成奏之，高祖以其书不实，使中书舍人刘之遴诘问数条，竟支离无对，敕付省焚之，坐免职。
寻有敕召见，使撰《通史》，起三皇，讫齐代，均草本纪、世家功已毕，唯列传未就。
普通元年，卒，时年五十二。
translation: 
From then on, Zhou Xingsi was ordered to write the "Bronze Biao Inscription", "Gate Tang Jie", "Northern Expedition", and "Ci Yun Wang Xi's Book of Thousand Characters". Every time after writing and submitting it, Emperor Gaozu praised the beauty of the words and gave him gold and silk.
In the ninth year of Tianjian, Zhou Xingsi was dismissed and awarded the title of Cheng of Xin'an County. When his term of office expired, he was appointed as a minister of Sanqi and assisted in writing the history of the country.
In the twelfth year of Tianjian, Zhou Xingsi moved to Shizhong, but his position of assisting in writing national history remained unchanged.
Zhou Xingsi's hands were originally suffering from rheumatism, but he contracted the epidemic again this year, and his left eye became blind. Emperor Gaozu clapped his hands and sighed: "What a good person to suffer from such a disease!"
He personally copied out the medicine for treating gangrene one by one and gave it to Zhou Xingsi.
He was valued to this extent by Gaozu.
Ren Fang also liked Zhou Xingsi's talents very much and often said: If Zhou Xingsi is not ill, he will be promoted to Yushi Zhongcheng within ten days.
In the fourteenth year of Tianjian, Zhou Xingsi was dismissed and granted the title of Linchuan County Magistrate.
In the 17th year of Tianjian, he was appointed to Shizhong and headed to the Western Province.
Zuo Wei led Zhou She to write annotations for the poems written by Emperor Gaozu, and Zhou She asked Zhou Xingsi to help him.
In ordinary two years, Zhou Xingsi passed away.
He wrote more than 100 volumes of "Records of the Emperor", "Records of the Emperor's Virtues", "Notes on Daily Life", and "Professional Etiquette", and has ten volumes of collected works.
Wu Jun, whose courtesy name is Shuxiang, was born in Guzhang, Wuxing.
His family has been poor for generations, but Wu Jun is eager to learn and has outstanding talents. Shen Yue once saw Wu Jun's articles, appreciated them very much, and praised them greatly.
In the early years of Tianjian, Liu Pan was appointed as the prefect of Wuxing, and he called Wu Jun to take over the post of chief registrar. He asked Wu Jun to compose poems with him every day.
Wu Jun's writing style is elegant and refined, with the temperament of the ancients. Some people like his style and imitate him, which is called Wu Jun style.
Xiao Wei, the king of Jian'an, was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou and promoted Wu Jun to serve as a clerk in the record office and to be in charge of clerical matters.
King Jian'an moved to be the governor of Jiangzhou, and Wu Jun was appointed as the Minister of State and concurrently as the governor of the city.
After Wu Jun returned to the capital, he was dismissed and granted the title of "Feng Chao".
Prior to this, Wu Jun petitioned to compile "Qi Chunqiu", which he later submitted to Gaozu. Gaozu believed that the book he wrote was not consistent with reality, so he sent Liu Zhilin, a member of the Zhongshushe, to question Wu Jun about several records in the book. Wu Jun was confused and unable to answer correctly. Gaozu ordered the book to be handed over to the Shangshu Province for burning, and Wu Jun was dismissed from his post.
Not long after, Emperor Gaozu issued an order to summon Wu Jun and sent him to write the "General History", which began with the Three Emperors and ended with the Qi Dynasty. Wu Jun drafted this chronicle and the family was completed, but only the biographies were not completed.
In the first year of ordinary life, Xian Jun died at the age of fifty-two.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
均注范晔《后汉书》九十卷，著《齐春秋》三十卷、《庙记》十卷、《十二州记》十六卷、《钱唐先贤传》五卷、《续文释》五卷，文集二十卷。
先是，有广陵高爽、济阳江洪、会稽虞骞，并工属文。
爽，齐永明中赠卫军王俭诗，为俭所赏，及领丹阳尹，举爽郡孝廉。
天监初，历官中军临川王参军。
出为晋陵令，坐事系冶，作《镬鱼赋》以自况，其文甚工。后遇赦获免，顷之，卒。
洪为建阳令，坐事死。
骞官至王国侍郎。
并有文集。
translation: 
Fan Ye wrote ninety volumes of Hou Mo Shu, thirty volumes of Qi Chun Qiu, ten volumes of Temple Records, sixteen volumes of Twelve States, five volumes of Biography of the Sages of Qian and Tang Dynasties, five volumes of Su Wen Shi, and twenty volumes of collected works.
Before this, there were Gao Shuang in Guangling, Jiang Hong in Jiyang, and Yu Qian in Kuaiji, all of whom were good at writing articles.
During the Yongming period of Qi Dynasty, Gao Shuang presented poems to General Wang Jian of the Wei Army, which was appreciated by Wang Jian. When Wang Jian took charge of Danyang Yin, he recommended Gao Shuang as Xiaolian of the county.
In the early years of Tianjian, Gao Shuang successively served as the Linchuan King of the Chinese Army and joined the army.
He came out of Beijing and served as the magistrate of Jinling. He was imprisoned in Yezhong because of his guilt. He wrote "Ode on Wok Fish" to express his feelings. The text of the poem was very exquisite. Later, he was pardoned and Gao Shuang was released. He died soon after.
Jiang Hong was appointed to the Jianyang Order and died because of his guilt.
Yu Qian was promoted to the rank of Minister of the Kingdom.
They all have anthologies.


