Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 5, 6, 8, 1]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
张耳者，大梁人也。
其少时，及魏公子毋忌为客。
张耳尝亡命游外黄。
外黄富人女甚美，嫁庸奴，亡其夫，去抵父客。
父客素知张耳，乃谓女曰： 必欲求贤夫，从张耳。
女听，乃卒为请决，嫁之张耳。
张耳是时脱身游，女家厚奉给张耳，张耳以故致千里客。
乃宦魏为外黄令。
名由此益贤。
陈馀者，亦大梁人也，好儒术，数游赵苦陉。
富人公乘氏以其女妻之，亦知陈馀非庸人也。
馀年少，父事张耳，两人相与为刎颈交。
秦之灭大梁也，张耳家外黄。高祖为布衣时，尝数从张耳游，客数月。
秦灭魏数岁，已闻此两人魏之名士也，购求有得张耳千金，陈馀五百金。
张耳、陈馀乃变名姓，俱之陈，为里监门以自食。两人相对。
里吏尝有过笞陈馀，陈馀欲起，张耳蹑之，使受笞。吏去，张耳乃引陈馀之桑下而数之曰： 始吾与公言何如？
今见小辱而欲死一吏乎？
陈馀然之。
秦诏书购求两人，两人亦反用门者以令里中。
陈涉起蕲，至入陈，兵数万。
张耳、陈馀上谒陈涉。
涉及左右生平数闻张耳、陈馀贤，未尝见，见即大喜。
陈中豪杰父老乃说陈涉曰： 将军身被坚执锐，率士卒以诛暴秦，复立楚社稷，存亡继绝，功德宜为王。
且夫监临天下诸将，不为王不可，原将军立为楚王也。
陈涉问此两人，两人对曰： 夫秦为无道，破人国家，灭人社稷，绝人後世，罢百姓之力，尽百姓之财。
translation: 
Zhang Er was a native of Daliang, Wei State.
When he was young, he was a guest at the gate of Wei Gongzi Wuji.
Zhang Er was once expelled from the local register and fled to Waihuang.
There was a daughter of a wealthy family in Waihuang. She was very beautiful, but she married a stupid and mediocre husband. She therefore ran away from her husband and went to live with her father's old friend.
Her father's friend knew Zhang Er well, so he said to the woman: If you must marry a talented husband, marry Zhang Er.
The woman listened to his advice, finally severed her relationship with her husband, and remarried Zhang Er.
At this time, Zhang Er was freed from his embarrassment and began to travel extensively. The bride's family provided Zhang Er with generous supplies, so Zhang Er could attract guests from thousands of miles away.
So Huang became the county magistrate outside Wei.
His reputation grew.
Chen Yu was also a native of Daliang in Wei State. He loved Confucianism and had visited Kuxing in Zhao State many times.
A very wealthy Gongcheng family married his daughter to him because he knew that Chen Yu was not an ordinary mediocre person.
When Chen Yu was young, he served Zhang Er like his father, and the two established a friendship through adversity that they would never regret.
When the Qin Dynasty destroyed Daliang, Zhang Er's family lived in Waihuang. When Han Emperor Gaozu was still an ordinary commoner, he had many contacts with Zhang Er and lived in Zhang Er's family for several months at a time.
A few years after the fall of the Qin State and the Wei State, it was heard that these two men were famous people in the Wei State, and a reward was offered for their arrest. Anyone who captured Zhang Er would be rewarded with a thousand gold coins, and whoever captured Chen Yu would be rewarded with a reward of five hundred gold coins.
Zhang Er and Chen Yu changed their names and fled to Chendi together, where they worked as guards to support themselves. They lived opposite each other.
A minor official once whipped Chen Yu for a minor offense. Chen Yu was about to resist, but Zhang Er quickly stepped on him to signal him not to move and accept the whipping. After the minor official left, Zhang Er took Chen Yu under the mulberry tree and scolded him: "What did I tell you in the first place?"
Now that I have suffered a little humiliation, am I going to die at the hands of an official?
Chen Yu thought he was right.
The State of Qin issued an order proclamation, offering a reward for the arrest of the two of them. They also used their status as Li Zhengwei to convey the order to the residents of Lizhong.
Chen She revolted in Qizhou and when he invaded Chen, his army had expanded to tens of thousands.
Zhang Er and Chen Yu asked to see Chen She.
Chen She and his cronies had heard that Zhang Er and Chen Yu were talented many times, but they had never met them, and they were very happy after meeting them.
The heroes and elders of Chendi persuaded Chen She: "The general wears strong armor and holds sharp weapons. He leads the soldiers to attack the tyrannical Qin State, reestablishes the power of Chu State, revives the destroyed country, and continues the extinct heirs. Such merits should be called the king."
Moreover, we have to supervise and lead all the generals in the world. It is impossible not to call ourselves kings. I hope that the generals will be established as kings of Chu.
Chen She asked Chen Yu and Zhang Er for their opinions on this, and they replied: The Qin State is unethical and has occupied other people's countries, destroyed their country, cut off their descendants, and plundered the people's property.
summary:
Zhang Er, a native of Daliang in Wei State, was once a guest of Wei Prince Wuji. After being expelled from the local register, he fled to Waihuang, where a wealthy woman left her foolish husband to marry him on the advice of her father's friend. With her family's support, Zhang Er traveled widely and gained fame, eventually becoming a county magistrate. Chen Yu, also from Daliang, was a Confucian scholar who married into a wealthy family. He served Zhang Er like a father, and they formed a close bond.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
将军今以三千人下赵数十城，独介居河北，不王无以填之。
且陈王听谗，还报，恐不脱於祸。
又不如立其兄弟；不，即立赵後。
将军毋失时，时间不容息。
武臣乃听之，遂立为赵王。
以陈馀为大将军，张耳为右丞相，邵骚为左丞相。
使人报陈王，陈王大怒，欲尽族武臣等家，而发兵击赵。
陈王相国房君谏曰： 秦未亡而诛武臣等家，此又生一秦也。
不如因而贺之，使急引兵西击秦。
陈王然之，从其计，徙系武臣等家宫中，封张耳子敖为成都君。
陈王使使者贺赵，令趣发兵西入关。
张耳、陈馀说武臣曰： 王王赵，非楚意，特以计贺王。
楚已灭秦，必加兵於赵。
原王毋西兵，北徇燕、代，南收河内以自广。
赵南据大河，北有燕、代，楚虽胜秦，必不敢制赵。
赵王以为然，因不西兵，而使韩广略燕，李良略常山，张黡略上党。
韩广至燕，燕人因立广为燕王。
赵王乃与张耳、陈馀北略地燕界。
赵王间出，为燕军所得。
燕将囚之，欲与分赵地半，乃归王。
使者往，燕辄杀之以求地。
张耳、陈馀患之。
有厮养卒谢其舍中曰： 吾为公说燕，与赵王载归。
舍中皆笑曰： 使者往十馀辈，辄死，若何以能得王？
乃走燕壁。
燕将见之，问燕将曰： 知臣何欲？
燕将曰： 若欲得赵王耳。 曰： 君知张耳、陈馀何如人也？
燕将曰： 贤人也。
曰： 知其志何欲？
曰： 欲得其王耳。
赵养卒乃笑曰： 君未知此两人所欲也。
夫武臣、张耳、陈馀杖马箠下赵数十城，此亦各欲南面而王，岂欲为卿相终己邪？
夫臣与主岂可同日而道哉，顾其势初定，未敢参分而王，且以少长先立武臣为王，以持赵心。
今赵地已服，此两人亦欲分赵而王，时未可耳。
今君乃囚赵王。此两人名为求赵王，实欲燕杀之，此两人分赵自立。
夫以一赵尚易燕，况以两贤王左提右挈，而责杀王之罪，灭燕易矣。
燕将以为然，乃归赵王，养卒为御而归。
translation: 
Today, the general has captured dozens of cities with 3,000 men and horses, and alone occupies a vast area of ​​Hebei. If he does not become king, it will not be enough to stabilize society.
Moreover, King Chen listened to the slander. If someone goes back to report it, he may be in trouble.
It is better to support his brother as king; otherwise, he will support the descendants of Zhao.
General, don't miss the opportunity. The time is tight and there is no time to breathe.
The military officials listened to their advice and proclaimed themselves King of Zhao.
Chen Yu was appointed as the general, Zhang Er as the prime minister on the right, and Shao Sao as the prime minister on the left.
He sent someone to report to King Chen. King Chen was furious after hearing this and wanted to kill all the families of the military officials and others, so he sent troops to attack King Zhao.
King Chen's Prime Minister Fang Jun dissuaded him and said: "To kill the families of military officials and others before Qin is destroyed is to establish another enemy as powerful as Qin."
It is better to take this opportunity to congratulate him and let him quickly lead the army to advance westward and attack Qin.
King Chen thought he was right and followed his plan. He moved the family members of Wu Chen and others to the palace and placed them under house arrest. He also made Zhang Er's son the King of Chengdu.
King Chen sent an envoy to congratulate King Zhao and asked him to quickly mobilize his troops westward into Guanzhong.
Zhang Er and Chen Yu advised the military officials: This is not the original intention of Chu State, but it is just a trick to congratulate the king.
After the King of Chu destroyed Qin, he would definitely add troops to Zhao.
I hope that the king will not march to the west, but send troops to the north to capture Yan and Dai, and to march south to capture Hanoi to expand his sphere of influence.
In this way, Zhao State relies on the river to the south and Yan and Dai to the north. Even if the King of Chu defeats Qin, he will not dare to force Zhao State.
King Zhao thought they were right, so instead of sending troops westward, he sent Han Guang to capture Yan, Li Liang to capture Changshan, and Zhang Xiao to capture Shangdang.
Han Guang's army arrived in Yan territory, and the Yan people took advantage of the situation to support Han Guang as king of Yan.
King Zhao, Zhang Er and Chen Yu went north to attack the border of Yan.
King Zhao once went out in his free time and was captured by the Yan army.
The generals of the State of Yan imprisoned him and demanded that they divide half of the land of the State of Zhao with him before releasing King Zhao.
The State of Zhao sent envoys to negotiate, but the Yan army killed them and demanded the division of the land.
Zhang Er and Chen Yu were worried about this matter.
A diligent soldier said to his comrades in the same dormitory: I want to lobby the Yan army on behalf of Zhang Er and Chen Yu, and come back in the chariot with King Zhao.
His companions who lived together laughed at him and said: "I sent more than a dozen envoys, but they were killed immediately when they arrived. How can you save King Zhao?"
So he ran to the Yan army's camp.
When the general of the Yan army saw him, he asked the Yan general: "Do you know what I am here for?"
General Yan replied: "You plan to rescue King Zhao." He asked again: "Do you know what kind of people Zhang Er and Chen Yu are?"
General Yan said: He is a wise man.
He continued: Do you know what their intentions are?
General Yan replied: "It's just King Zhao who wants to save them."
Zhao's orderlies smiled and said: "You still don't understand the plans of these two people."
Wu Chen, Zhang Er, and Chen Yu held riding whips and commanded the army to conquer dozens of cities in Zhao. Each of them wanted to face the south and become king. Are they willing to be someone else's minister for the rest of their lives?
Can ministers and kings be compared? He was just worried that the general situation was firm and he did not dare to divide the world into three parts and establish each as a king. Instead, he first established military ministers as kings in order of age to maintain the hearts and minds of the people of Zhao.
Now that the Zhao land has been pacified and the people have surrendered, these two people also want to divide the Zhao land and become kings on their own, but the time is not yet ripe.
Now, you have imprisoned the King of Zhao. These two people are nominally trying to save the King of Zhao, but in fact they want the Yan army to kill him so that they can divide the land of Zhao and become kings on their own.
The original strength of the Zhao State could easily capture the Yan State, not to mention the two virtuous kings supporting each other and attacking with the crime of killing King Zhao, and it would be even easier to destroy the Yan State.
The general of Yan thought what he said was reasonable, so he released King Zhao, and the soldiers drove King Zhao's chariot back together.
summary:
After Qin destroyed Wei, both men became wanted fugitives. They changed their names and worked as guards in Chendi. When a minor official whipped Chen Yu, Zhang Er restrained him from resisting, advising patience. When Chen She rebelled, Zhang Er and Chen Yu advised him not to proclaim himself king too early but to restore the Six Kingdoms to weaken Qin. Chen She ignored them and made himself king. They then helped Wu Chen lead an army to conquer Zhao, where they persuaded him to declare himself King of Zhao. Chen Yu became general, and Zhang Er became prime minister.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
数月，张耳大怒，怨陈馀，使张黡、陈泽往让陈馀曰： 始吾与公为刎颈交，今王与耳旦暮且死，而公拥兵数万，不肯相救，安在其相为死！
苟必信，胡不赴秦军俱死？
且有十一二相全。
陈馀曰： 吾度前终不能救赵，徒尽亡军。
且馀所以不俱死，欲为赵王、张君报秦。
今必俱死，如以肉委饿虎，何益？
张黡、陈泽曰： 事已急，要以俱死立信，安知後虑！
陈馀曰： 吾死顾以为无益。
必如公言。 乃使五千人令张黡、陈泽先尝秦军，至皆没。
当是时，燕、齐、楚闻赵急，皆来救。
张敖亦北收代兵，得万馀人，来，皆壁馀旁，未敢击秦。
项羽兵数绝章邯甬道，王离军乏食，项羽悉引兵渡河，遂破章邯。
章邯引兵解，诸侯军乃敢击围钜鹿秦军，遂虏王离。
涉间自杀。
卒存钜鹿者，楚力也。
於是赵王歇、张耳乃得出钜鹿，谢诸侯。
张耳与陈馀相见，责让陈馀以不肯救赵，及问张黡、陈泽所在。陈馀怒曰： 张黡、陈泽以必死责臣，臣使将五千人先尝秦军，皆没不出。
张耳不信，以为杀之，数问陈馀。
陈馀怒曰： 不意君之望臣深也！
岂以臣为重去将哉？
乃脱解印绶，推予张耳。
张耳亦愕不受。
陈馀起如厕。
客有说张耳曰： 臣闻 天与不取，反受其咎 。
今陈将军与君印，君不受，反天不祥。
急取之！
张耳乃佩其印，收其麾下。
而陈馀还，亦望张耳不让，遂趋出。
张耳遂收其兵。
陈馀独与麾下所善数百人之河上泽中渔猎。
由此陈馀、张耳遂有卻。
赵王歇复居信都。张耳从项羽诸侯入关。
translation: 
After several months of stalemate with no reinforcements, Zhang Er was furious and resentful of Chen Yu. He sent Zhang Xiao and Chen Ze to rebuke Chen Yu, saying: "You and I formed a life-and-death friendship at the beginning, but now King Zhao and I may die overnight, and you have tens of thousands of troops and refuse to rescue us. Where is the friendship of life and death?"
If you want to keep your promise, why don't you fight the Qin army to the death?
There may still be a 1/20 chance of winning.
Chen Yu said: I consider that even if we advance forward, not only will we not be able to save Zhao, but our entire army will be wiped out in vain.
Besides, I don’t go and die together because I want to avenge King Zhao and Jun Zhang from Qin in the future.
Now we must die together, just like giving meat to a hungry tiger. What is the benefit?
Zhang Xian and Chen Ze said: The matter is imminent. We need to die together to establish integrity. How can we care about the future?
Chen Yu said: I have no regrets about dying, it is just that it will be useless, but I will definitely do what you two said.
So he sent 5,000 troops under the leadership of Zhang Xian and Chen Ze to attack the Qin army. When they reached the front line, the entire army was wiped out.
At this time, Yan, Qi, and Chu heard that Zhao was in danger and came to rescue him.
Zhang Ao also gathered more than 10,000 troops from Daidi to the north. They all set up camp next to Chen Yu and did not dare to attack the Qin army.
Xiang Yu's army cut off Zhang Han's tunnel many times, and Wang Li was short of military supplies. Xiang Yu led all his troops across the Yellow River and defeated Zhang Han.
Zhang Han led his troops to retreat, and then the armies of various princes dared to attack the Qin army that besieged Julu, and finally captured Wang Li.
Qin general Shejian committed suicide.
In the end, it was the State of Chu that saved the giant deer.
At this time, King Zhao Xie and Zhang Er were able to leave Julu City to thank the princes from all over the world.
When Zhang Er and Chen Yu met, they blamed Chen Yu for refusing to save Zhao and asked about the whereabouts of Zhang Xu and Chen Ze. Chen Yu said angrily: Zhang Xu and Chen Ze blamed me for dying together. I sent them to lead five thousand troops to try to attack the Qin army first. As a result, the entire army was wiped out and no one was spared.
Zhang Er didn't believe it and thought Chen Yu had killed them, so he questioned Chen Yu many times.
Chen Yu was furious and said: I didn't expect your resentment towards me to be so deep!
Do you think I am reluctant to give up my position as general?
He untied the seal and pushed it to Zhang Er.
Zhang Er was also shocked and refused to accept it.
Chen Yu stood up and went to the toilet.
Some guests advised Zhang Er: I heard that if you don't accept the gift from heaven, you will suffer disaster.
Now, General Chen has given you the seal. If you do not accept it, it is unlucky to go against God's will.
Hurry and receive it!
Zhang Er wore Chen Yu's seal and accepted his subordinates.
When Chen Yu came back, he was also resentful that Zhang Er had taken the seal without giving up, so he walked out quickly.
Zhang Er then gathered his army.
Chen Yu went alone with hundreds of his followers to fish and hunt in the lakes near the Yellow River.
From then on, there was an emotional rift between Chen Yu and Zhang Er.
Zhao Wangxie returned to Xindu to live, and Zhang Er followed Xiang Yu and other princes into Guanzhong.
summary:
When Qin forces besieged Julu, Zhang Er and King Zhao Xie were trapped inside. Chen Yu, with insufficient troops, hesitated to rescue them. Zhang Er sent messengers to rebuke him, but Chen Yu's cautious approach led to a rift. After Xiang Yu defeated Qin at Julu, Zhang Er blamed Chen Yu for the deaths of his messengers. Chen Yu angrily offered his seal, which Zhang Er accepted, deepening their enmity.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
汉元年二月，项羽立诸侯王，张耳雅游，人多为之言，项羽亦素数闻张耳贤，乃分赵立张耳为常山王，治信都。信都更名襄国。
陈馀客多说项羽曰： 陈馀、张耳一体有功於赵。
项羽以陈馀不从入关，闻其在南皮，即以南皮旁三县以封之，而徙赵王歇王代。
张耳之国，陈馀愈益怒，曰： 张耳与馀功等也，今张耳王，馀独侯，此项羽不平。
及齐王田荣畔楚，陈馀乃使夏说说田荣曰： 项羽为天下宰不平，尽王诸将善地，徙故王王恶地，今赵王乃居代！
原王假臣兵，请以南皮为扞蔽。
田荣欲树党於赵以反楚，乃遣兵从陈馀。
陈馀因悉三县兵袭常山王张耳。
张耳败走，念诸侯无可归者，曰： 汉王与我有旧故，而项羽又彊，立我，我欲之楚。
甘公曰： 汉王之入关，五星聚东井。
东井者，秦分也。
先至必霸。
楚虽彊，後必属汉。
故耳走汉。
汉王亦还定三秦，方围章邯废丘。
张耳谒汉王，汉王厚遇之。
陈馀已败张耳，皆复收赵地，迎赵王於代，复为赵王。赵王德陈馀，立以为代王。
陈馀为赵王弱，国初定，不之国，留傅赵王，而使夏说以相国守代。
汉二年，东击楚，使使告赵，欲与俱。
陈馀曰： 汉杀张耳乃从。
於是汉王求人类张耳者斩之，持其头遗陈馀。
陈馀乃遣兵助汉。
汉之败於彭城西，陈馀亦复觉张耳不死，即背汉。
汉三年，韩信已定魏地，遣张耳与韩信击破赵井陉，斩陈馀泜水上，追杀赵王歇襄国。
汉立张耳为赵王。
汉五年，张耳薨，谥为景王。
子敖嗣立为赵王。高祖长女鲁元公主为赵王敖后。
汉七年，高祖从平城过赵，赵王朝夕袒韝蔽，自上食，礼甚卑，有子婿礼。
高祖箕踞詈，甚慢易之。
赵相贯高、赵午等年六十馀，故张耳客也。生平为气，乃怒曰： 吾王孱王也！
说王曰： 夫天下豪桀并起，能者先立。
translation: 
In February of the first year of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu enfeoffed the princes and kings. Zhang Er had always had many friends and many people spoke well of him. Xiang Yu also heard that Zhang Er was talented, so he divided the land of Zhao State and made Zhang Er the king of Changshan. He established Xindu and renamed Xindu Xiangguo.
Many of Chen Yu's old guests advised Xiang Yu: "Chen Yu and Zhang Er have also contributed to Zhao."
However, because Chen Yu did not follow him into Guanzhong, and because Xiang Yu heard that Chen Yu was in Nanpi, he granted him the three counties around Nanpi, moved King Zhao Xie's capital to Dai County, and changed his title to Dai Wang.
When Zhang Er went to his feudal state, Chen Yu became even more angry and said, "Zhang Er and I have equal merits. Zhang Er can be granted the title of king, but I can only be granted the title of marquis. This is unfair to Xiang Yu."
When King Tian Rong of Qi betrayed Chu, Chen Yu sent Xia Yuan to persuade Tian Rong: Xiang Yu, as the ruler of the world, is unfair. He enfeoffs good places to generals to be kings, and moves those who were kings to bad places. Now he has moved King Zhao to Dai County!
I hope your Majesty will lend me your troops and use Nanpi as a shield for your defense.
Tian Rong planned to establish a faction in Zhao State to oppose Chu State, so he sent troops to follow Chen Yu's command.
Therefore, Chen Yu mobilized all the troops from his three counties to attack Changshan King Zhang Er.
Zhang Er was defeated and fled. He thought that there was no one among the princes who could defect to him, so he said: Although the King of Han has an old friendship with me, Xiang Yu's power is strong, and he entrusted me, so I want to defect to Chu.
Duke Gan said: When the king of Han entered the pass, the five stars gathered in the Jingsu sky area.
Jingsutian District is the branch star of Qin State.
Whoever arrives first will definitely succeed.
Even if Chu is strong now, it will definitely belong to Han in the future.
Therefore, Zhang Er decided to go to Han.
The King of Han also returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, and was besieging Zhang Han's army in Feiqiu.
Zhang Er came to see the King of Han, who received him with great courtesy.
After Chen Yu defeated Zhang Er, he recovered all the land of Zhao State, brought King Zhao back from Dai County, and became the king of Zhao State. King Zhao was grateful to Chen Yu and made Chen Yu the king of Dai.
Because King Zhao was weak and the domestic situation had just stabilized, Chen Yu did not go to the feudal state and stayed to assist King Zhao, while he sent Xia Yue to garrison Daiguo as the prime minister.
In the second year of the Han Dynasty, the king of Han attacked the Chu State eastward and sent an envoy to inform the State of Zhao that he would attack Chu together with the State of Zhao.
Chen Yu said: As long as the king of Han kills Zhang Er, Zhao will obey.
So the king of Han found a man who looked similar to Zhang Er and beheaded him, and sent someone to take the head to Chen Yu.
Chen Yu then sent troops to help Han.
The King of Han was defeated west of Pengcheng. Chen Yu realized that Zhang Er was still alive, so he betrayed the King of Han.
In the third year of the Han Dynasty, not long after Han Xin pacified Wei, he sent Zhang Er and Han Xin to break through Jingxing of Zhao State, kill Chen Yu on the banks of the Sashui River, and pursue Xiang State to kill Zhao Wangxie.
The Han Dynasty granted Zhang Er the title of King of Zhao.
In the fifth year of the Han Dynasty, Zhang Er died, and his posthumous title was King Jing.
Zhang Er's son Zhang Ao succeeded his father as King of Zhao, and Princess Lu Yuan, the eldest daughter of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, married King Ao of Zhao and became his queen.
In the seventh year of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Gaozu passed by the State of Zhao from Pingcheng. The King of Zhao took off his coat, put on his sleeves, and personally served food and drinks from morning to night. His attitude was very humble, and he had the etiquette of a son-in-law.
However, Emperor Gaozu sat on the ground with his feet spread out like a dustpan and cursed King Zhao, being very arrogant to him.
Zhao Guoguo, Xiang Guangao, Zhao Wu and others were all over sixty years old and were Zhang Er's former disciples. They were bold and impulsive by nature, so they said angrily: Our king is a cowardly king!
He advised King Zhao: "When the heroes of the world came together, the talented ones were the first to be kings."
summary:
Xiang Yu enfeoffed Zhang Er as King of Changshan but gave Chen Yu only three counties. Chen Yu, resentful, allied with Qi to attack Zhang Er, who fled to Han. Han Xin helped Zhang Er defeat and kill Chen Yu, and Zhang Er was made King of Zhao. He died in the fifth year of Han, succeeded by his son Zhang Ao.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
今吾三族皆以论死，岂以王易吾亲哉！
顾为王实不反，独吾等为之。
具道本指所以为者王不知状。
於是泄公入，具以报，上乃赦赵王。
上贤贯高为人能立然诺，使泄公具告之，曰： 张王已出。
因赦贯高。
贯高喜曰： 吾王审出乎？ 泄公曰： 然。
泄公曰： 上多足下，故赦足下。
贯高曰： 所以不死一身无馀者，白张王不反也。今王已出，吾责已塞，死不恨矣。
且人臣有篡杀之名，何面目复事上哉！
纵上不杀我，我不愧於心乎？
乃仰绝肮，遂死。
当此之时，名闻天下。
张敖已出，以尚鲁元公主故，封为宣平侯。
於是上贤张王诸客，以钳奴从张王入关，无不为诸侯相、郡守者。
及孝惠、高后、文帝、孝景时，张王客子孙皆得为二千石。
张敖，高后六年薨。
子偃为鲁元王。
以母吕后女故，吕后封为鲁元王。
元王弱，兄弟少，乃封张敖他姬子二人：寿为乐昌侯，侈为信都侯。
高后崩，诸吕无道，大臣诛之，而废鲁元王及乐昌侯、信诸侯。
孝文帝即位，复封故鲁元王偃为南宫侯，续张氏。
太史公曰：张耳、陈馀，世传所称贤者；其宾客厮役，莫非天下俊桀，所居国无不取卿相者。
然张耳、陈馀始居约时，相然信以死，岂顾问哉。
及据国争权，卒相灭亡，何乡者相慕用之诚，後相倍之戾也！
岂非以势利交哉？名誉虽高，宾客虽盛，所由殆与大伯、延陵季子异矣。
translation: 
Now that all three of my clans have been sentenced to death because of this incident, will I sacrifice my relatives for the sake of King Zhao?
But King Zhao did not resist, only we people participated.
He explained in detail his original intention to murder the emperor and the situation that King Zhao did not know the inside story.
So Duke Xie went to the palace and reported in detail what he had learned, and the emperor pardoned King Zhao.
The emperor appreciated Guangao as a man of faith, so he sent Duke Xie to tell him about the pardon of King Zhao, saying: King Zhao has been released from imprisonment.
Therefore, Guan Gao was also pardoned.
Guan Gao said happily: Is our King Zhao really released? Xie Gong said: Yes.
Duke Xie said again: The emperor praised you, so he pardoned you.
Guan Gao said: The reason why I survived being beaten to death was to prove that King Zhang Ao did not commit rebellion. Now that King Zhang Ao has been released, my responsibility has been remedied, and I will not regret it even if I die.
Besides, if a minister has a reputation of usurping, how can he have the dignity to serve the emperor again?
Even if the emperor does not kill me, am I not ashamed in my heart?
So he raised his head and cut his throat and died.
By this time, he was already famous throughout the world.
Not long after Zhang Ao was released, he was named Marquis of Xuanping because he married Princess Lu Yuan.
Therefore, the emperor praised Zhang Ao's guests. All the guests who followed King Zhang into the pass as slaves were all princes, ministers, and county guards.
Until the time of Xiaohui, Gaohou, Emperor Wen, and Xiaojing, the descendants of King Zhang's guests had become high-ranking officials with a salary of two thousand stone.
Zhang Ao died in the sixth year of high school.
Zhang Ao's son Zhang Yan was named King of Lu Yuan.
And because Zhang Yan's mother was Empress Lu's daughter, Empress Lu named him King of Lu Yuan.
The king of the Yuan Dynasty was weak and his brothers were small, so he divided the two sons of Zhang Ao's other concubines: Zhang Shou was named the Marquis of Lechang, and Zhang Chi was named the Marquis of Xindu.
After the death of Empress Gao, the Lu family did evil and did not follow the right path, so they were killed by the ministers. They also deposed King Lu Yuan, Marquis Lechang and Marquis Xindu.
After Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, he enfeoffed Zhang Yan, the original king of Lu Yuan, as Marquis of Nangong to continue the Zhang family's descendants.
Tai Shigong said: Zhang Er and Chen Yu are both virtuous people in world legends; their guests and servants are all heroes in the world, and all of them have achieved the status of minister in the country where they live.
However, when Zhang Er and Chen Yu were poor and frustrated, they trusted each other and vowed to live and die together. Isn't it true that they had no hesitation?
When they gained territory and fought for power, they ended up killing each other, hoping to eliminate each other.
Why did they sincerely admire and trust each other in the past, but then betrayed each other, and their attitudes towards each other were so perverse and violent? Aren’t they interacting with each other for the sake of power and interests? Although they have a high reputation and many guests, their actions are probably very different from Taibo Wu and Jizi Yanling.
summary:
Zhang Ao married Princess Lu Yuan, daughter of Emperor Gaozu. When Gaozu treated him arrogantly, Zhang Ao's retainers Guan Gao and Zhao Wu plotted to assassinate the emperor. The plot was discovered, and Zhang Ao was arrested. Guan Gao took full responsibility, enduring torture to prove Zhang Ao's innocence. Gaozu eventually pardoned Zhang Ao, and Guan Gao committed suicide. Zhang Ao was later made Marquis of Xuanping. His descendants held high offices until the Lu clan's downfall led to their demotion, though some were later restored.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
将军瞋目张胆，出万死不顾一生之计，为天下除残也。
今始至陈而王之，示天下私。
原将军毋王，急引兵而西，遣人立六国後，自为树党，为秦益敌也。
敌多则力分，与众则兵彊。如此野无交兵，县无守城，诛暴秦，据咸阳以令诸侯。
诸侯亡而得立，以德服之，如此则帝业成矣。
今独王陈，恐天下解也。
陈涉不听，遂立为王。
陈馀乃复说陈王曰： 大王举梁、楚而西，务在入关，未及收河北也。臣尝游赵，知其豪桀及地形，原请奇兵北略赵地。
於是陈王以故所善陈人武臣为将军，邵骚为护军，以张耳、陈馀为左右校尉，予卒三千人，北略赵地。
武臣等从白马渡河，至诸县，说其豪桀曰： 秦为乱政虐刑以残贼天下，数十年矣。
北有长城之役，南有五岭之戍，外内骚动，百姓罢敝，头会箕敛，以供军费，财匮力尽，民不聊生。
重之以苛法峻刑，使天下父子不相安。
陈王奋臂为天下倡始，王楚之地，方二千里，莫不响应，家自为怒，人自为斗，各报其怨而攻其雠，县杀其令丞，郡杀其守尉。
今已张大楚，王陈，使吴广、周文将卒百万西击秦。
於此时而不成封侯之业者，非人豪也。
诸君试相与计之！
夫天下同心而苦秦久矣。
因天下之力而攻无道之君，报父兄之怨而成割地有土之业，此士之一时也。
豪桀皆然其言。
乃行收兵，得数万人，号武臣为武信君。
translation: 
The general's eyes widened with anger, he let go of his courage and risked his life, just to eliminate cruelty and cruelty in the world.
Now he has just conquered Chen Di and proclaimed himself king, showing his selfishness in front of everyone in the world.
I hope the general will not become king. He quickly led his troops to the west and sent people to support the descendants of the Six Kingdoms as his own party members to increase the hostility to Qin.
The more enemies we make for it, the more dispersed its power will be. The more members we have, the stronger our troops will be. If this is the case, there will be no need to fight each other in the vast wilderness, and there will be no county towns to defend and attack. After eradicating the tyrannical Qin State, we can occupy Xianyang and issue orders to the princes.
The various vassal states can be reestablished after their destruction, and they can be inspired by kindness. If this can be done, then the great cause of the emperor will be successful.
Now that I am only king of Chen, I am afraid that all the princes in the world will become slack and disobedient.
Chen She did not listen to their opinions and proclaimed himself king.
Chen Yu once again advised King Chen and said: Your Majesty has dispatched the armies of Liang and Chu to advance westward. The top priority is to break through Hangu Pass. It is too late to recover the area north of the Yellow River. I have traveled extensively in Zhao State and am familiar with the outstanding people and geographical conditions there. I volunteered to lead an army to seize the land of Zhao State by surprise in the north.
Therefore, King Chen appointed his old friend Wu Chen from Chen as the general, Shao Sao as the guard, Zhang Er and Chen Yu as the left and right captains, and allocated an army of 3,000 people to seize the land of Zhao to the north.
Wu Chen and others crossed the Yellow River from Baimajin and went to various counties to lobby the local heroes and said: Qin's chaos and torture have been killing the people of the world for decades.
There were hard laborers building the Great Wall on the northern border, and soldiers were being recruited to garrison the Five Ridges in the south. There was turmoil at home and abroad, and the people were exhausted. Grains were collected on a per capita basis and collected with dustpans to support the expenses of the army. All the money was exhausted, and the people were in dire straits.
Coupled with severe harsh laws and torture, fathers and sons in the world have no peace.
King Chen rose up and first advocated for the world. He became king in Chu land. There was no one in the area of ​​two thousand miles who did not respond. Every family was filled with indignation and everyone was full of fighting spirit. Those who had grievances complained and those who had grievances took revenge. Each county killed their magistrates and magistrates, and each county killed their governors and lieutenants.
Now the great Chu State has been established, proclaimed king in Chen, and sent Wu Guang and Zhou Wen to lead a million troops to the west to attack the Qin army.
At this time, if you are not able to achieve the feat of becoming a prince, then you are not a hero among men.
Please plan for each other!
Everyone in the world agrees that they have suffered from the tyranny of Qin for a long time.
Using the power of the people of the world to attack the unprincipled king, avenge the father and brother, and complete the great cause of dividing the land, this is an opportunity that ambitious people cannot miss.
All the heroes thought this was correct.
So while marching and fighting, he gathered his troops. The army expanded to tens of thousands, and the military official named himself Lord Wu Xin.
summary:
The historian comments that Zhang Er and Chen Yu, once loyal friends, became bitter enemies over power and territory, revealing that their bond was rooted in self-interest rather than true virtue.

