Chunk 0: 
original: 
马援字文渊，扶风茂陵人也。
其先赵奢为赵将，号曰马服君，子孙因为氏。
武帝时，以吏二千石自邯郸徙焉。
曾祖父通，以功封重合侯，坐兄何罗反，被诛，故援再世不显。
援三兄况、余、员，并有才能，王莽时皆为二千石。
援年十二而孤，少有大志，诸兄奇之。
尝受《齐诗》，意不能守章句，乃辞况，欲就边郡田牧。
况曰： 汝大才，当晚成。
良工不示人以朴，且从所好。
会况卒，援行服期年，不离墓所；敬事寡嫂，不冠不入庐。
后为郡督邮，送囚至司命府，囚有重罪，援哀而纵之，遂亡命北地。
遇赦，因留牧畜，宾客多归附者，遂役属数百家。
转游陇汉间，常谓宾客曰： 丈夫为志，穷当益坚，老当益壮。
因处田牧，至有牛、马、羊数千头，谷数万斛。
既而叹曰： 凡殖货财产，贵其能施赈也，否则守钱虏耳。
乃尽散以班昆弟故旧，身衣羊裘皮裤。
王莽末，四方兵起，莽从弟卫将军林广招雄俊，乃辟援及同县原涉为掾，荐之于莽。
莽以涉为镇戎大尹，援为新成大尹。
及莽败，援兄员时为增山连率，与援俱去郡，复避地凉州。
世祖即位，员先诣洛阳，帝遣员复郡，卒于官。
援因留西州，隗嚣甚敬重之，以援为绥德将军，与决筹策。
是时，公孙述称帝于蜀，嚣使援往观之。
援素与述同里闬，相善，以为既至当握手欢如平生，而述盛陈陛卫，以延援入，交拜礼毕，使出就馆，更为援制都布单衣、交让冠，会百官于宗庙中，立旧交之位。
translation: 
◆Ma Yuan's biography: Ma Yuan was named Wenyuan and was a native of Maoling, Fufeng.
His ancestor Zhao She was a general of Zhao, with the title of Ma Fujun, and his descendants considered him a surname.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, he moved two thousand stones from Handan to Maoling.
Ma Tong, his great-grandfather, was granted the title of Chonghehou due to his meritorious service. His brother Ho Luo was implicated in the rebellion and was killed, so Ma Yuan's grandfather and father were not allowed to be prominent officials.
Ma Yuan's three elder brothers, Ma Kuang, Ma Yu, and Ma Yuan, were all talented. At the time of Wang Mang, they were all worth two thousand shi.
Ma Yuan was orphaned when he was twelve years old. He was young and ambitious, and his brothers thought he was strange.
He once taught him to learn Qi poetry, but Ma Yuan could not stick to the chapters and sentences, so he said goodbye to his brother Ma Kuang and wanted to farm and herd in the border counties.
Ma Kuang said: You have great talent, and you will be able to succeed later in the evening.
Good craftsmen don't tell people to use big wood, but just follow your preferences.
On the first anniversary of Ma Kuang's death, Ma Yuan wore mourning clothes and did not leave the tomb. He respected his widowed sister-in-law and would not enter the cottage until he had good hair and a good hat.
Later, he became the postal supervisor of the county and sent prisoners to Siming Mansion. The prisoners had serious crimes, so Ma Yuan took pity on him and let him go, then fled to the north.
After he was pardoned, he left his livestock behind. Many of his guests joined him, and hundreds of families joined him.
When he traveled to Longhan, he often said to his guests: A man's ambition should be stronger when he is poor and more heroic when he is old.
Because they are engaged in farming and grazing, they have thousands of cattle, horses and sheep, and tens of thousands of grains.
Then he sighed: Any property obtained from farming, animal husbandry and commerce is valuable because it can help others, otherwise you will be nothing more than a miser!
So he distributed all his property to his elder brother and his old friend. Living in sheepskin pants.
At the end of Wang Mang's reign, armies from all directions rose up. Wang Mang recruited heroes from his younger brother, General Wang Linguang. He recruited Ma Yuan and Yuan She from the same county as couriers and recommended them to Wang Mang.
Wang Mang took Yuanshe as the great Yin of Zhenrong, and Ma Yuan as the new great Yin.
When Wang Mang was defeated, Ma Yuan's brother Ma Yuan left the county with Ma Yuan to lead the Zengshan Company, and fled to Liangzhou.
When Shizu ascended the throne, the horsemen went to Luoyang first. When the emperor sent the horsemen back, they were still led by Zengshan Company and died in the official position.
Ma Yuan therefore stayed in Xizhou. Kuai Xiao respected him very much, regarded him as General Suide, and made joint decisions with him.
At this time Gongsun Shu proclaimed himself emperor in Shu, and Wei Xiao sent Ma Yuan to Shu to observe.
Ma Yuan and Gongsun Shu were from the same hometown, and they had always been good friends. He thought that Gongsun Shu would shake hands with him after he left, and he would be as happy as before. But this time Gongsun Shu showed his favor to the imperial guards and invited Ma Yuan to meet him. After paying homage, he took Ma Yuan to the residence, made Ma Yuan cloth clothes for him, gave him a hat, met with all the officials in the ancestral temple, and set up his old friend's seat.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
述鸾旗旄骑，警跸就车，磬折而入，礼飨官属甚盛，欲授援以封侯大将军位。
宾客皆乐留，援晓之曰： 天下雄雌未定，公孙不吐哺走迎国士，与图成败，反修饰边幅，如偶人形。此子何足久稽天下士乎！
因辞归，谓嚣曰： 子阳井底蛙耳，而妄自尊大，不如专意东方。
建武四年冬，嚣使援奉书洛阳。
援至，引见于宣德殿。
世祖笑谓援曰 卿遨游二帝间，今见卿，使人大惭。
援顿首辞谢，因曰： 当今之世，非独君择臣也，臣亦择君矣。
臣与公孙述同县，少相善。臣前至蜀，述陛戟而后进臣。
臣今远来，陛下何知非刺客奸人，而简易若是？
帝复笑曰： 卿非刺客，顾说客耳。
援曰： 天下反覆，盗名字者不可胜数。今见陛下，恢廓大度，同符高祖，乃知帝王自有真也。
帝甚壮之。
援从南幸黎兵，转至东海。
及还，以为待诏，使太中大夫来歙持节送援西归陇右。
隗嚣与援共卧起，问以东方流言及京师得失。
援说嚣曰： 前到朝廷，上引见数十，每接宴语，自夕至旦，才明勇略，非人敌也。
且开心见诚，无所隐伏，阔达多大节，略与高帝同。经学博览，政事文辩，前世无比。
嚣曰： 卿谓何如高帝？
援曰： 不如也。
高帝无可无不可；今上好吏事，动如节度，又不喜饮酒。
嚣意不怿，曰： 如卿言，反复胜邪？
然雅信援，故遂遣长子恂入质。
援因将家属随恂归洛阳。
居数月而无它职任。
援以三辅地旷土沃，而所将宾客猥多，乃上书求屯田上林苑中，帝许之。
会隗嚣用王元计，意更狐疑，援数以书记责譬于嚣，嚣怨援背己，得书增怒，其后遂发兵拒汉。
援乃上疏曰： 臣援自念归身圣朝，奉事陛下，本无公辅一言之荐，左右为容之助。
臣不自陈，陛下何因闻之。
translation: 
Gongsun Shu held the emperor's Luan flag and Yanqi, and all the guards on the left and right got on the chariot like an emperor, and entered with their bodies bent like chimes. There were many officials in charge of ceremonies and banquets, and they wanted to confer Ma Yuan with the title of general.
The guests were all happy to stay, and Ma Yuan Xiao told everyone: "The outcome of the world is uncertain. Gongsun Shu does not welcome the talented people in the country with courtesy and courtesy, and discusses success or failure together. Instead, he embellishes his appearance and acts like a puppet. How can this son be able to remain a talent in the world for a long time?"
So he resigned. He told Wei Xiao, "Gongsun Shu is just a frog in the well, but he is arrogant. You might as well concentrate on running the East."
In the winter of the fourth year of Jianwu, Kuaixiao sent Ma Yuan to Luoyang with a letter.
When Ma Yuan arrived, the emperor received him in Xuande Hall.
Shizu went out to greet Ma Yuan and said with a smile: "You have been running around between the two emperors. Seeing you now makes people feel ashamed."
Ma Yuan kowtowed and said goodbye. Therefore, it is said: In today's world, not only the monarch chooses his ministers, but the ministers also choose the monarch.
Gongsun Shu and I were from the same county, and we were friendly when we were young. The last time I went to Shu, Gongsun Shu ordered his ministers to stand guard on both sides with halberds, and then summoned me to see him.
I am here from afar, how do you know that I am not an assassin and a traitor, yet you are so careless?
The emperor smiled again and said: You are not an assassin, you are just a lobbyist.
Ma Yuan said: "There are so many people in the world who steal names. Now that I see your majesty, he is magnanimous and magnanimous, just like Gaozu, I know that the emperor is naturally true."
The emperor praised his words very much.
Ma Yuan went from Di to Liqiu and then to the East China Sea.
After returning, he was asked to be on standby for the time being and sent Taizhong doctor to Shezhijie to see Ma Yuanxi back to Longyou.
Wei Xiao lay down with Ma Yuan and asked him about the news he had heard in the east and the gains and losses in the capital.
Ma Yuan said to Wei Xiao: "The last time I came to the court, the emperor met with me more than ten times. Every time I talked with him at the banquet, from night to morning, the emperor's talent and bravery were unmatched by others. He was frank and sincere and had nothing to hide."
He is broad-minded and has great integrity, which is probably the same as Emperor Gao. However, his profound knowledge of Confucian classics, handling of political affairs and writing and rhetoric are unparalleled in previous generations.
Wei Xiao said: What do you think he is compared to Emperor Gao?
Ma Yuan said: Not as good as that.
Emperor Gao could do anything in heaven or on earth; Guangwu loved political affairs and could handle them appropriately, but he did not like drinking.
Wei Xiao was unhappy and said, "As you put it, Guangwu is better than Gaozu?"
However, he trusted Ma Yuan very much, so he sent his eldest son Kai Xun to the capital as a hostage.
Therefore, Ma Yuan and his family returned to Luoyang with Wei Xun.
I haven't received a new appointment for several months.
Ma Yuan's three auxiliary lands were vast and fertile, and he brought many guests. So he wrote a letter requesting to farm in Shanglin Garden.
Guangwu agreed. When Wei Xiao used Wang Yuan's plan, he became even more suspicious. Ma Yuan wrote several times to reprimand Wei Xiao. Wei Xiao hated Ma Yuan for betraying him. After gaining trust, his hatred increased, and later he sent troops to resist the Han.
Ma Yuan said to Guangwu Shangshu: I wanted to return to the Holy Dynasty and serve His Majesty. I didn't have a word of recommendation from the three ministers, nor did anyone around me speak first for me.
If I don't say it myself, how can your Majesty hear it?


Chunk 2: 
original: 
夫居前不能令人轾，居后不能令人轩，与人怨不能为人患，臣所耻也。
故敢触冒罪忌，昧死陈诚。
臣与隗嚣，本实交友。
初，嚣遣臣东，谓臣曰： 本欲为汉，愿足下往观之。于汝意可，即专心矣。
及臣还反，报以赤心，实欲导之于善，非敢谲以非义。
而嚣自挟奸心，盗憎主人，怨毒之情遂归于臣。
臣欲不言，则无以上闻。
愿听诣行在所，极陈灭嚣之术，得空匈腹，申愚策，退就陇亩，死无所恨。
帝乃召援计事，援具言谋画。
因使援将突骑五千，往来游说嚣将高峻、任禹之属，下及羌豪，为陈祸福，以离嚣支党。
援又为书与嚣将杨广，使晓劝于嚣，曰：
春卿无恙，前别冀南，寂无音驿。援间还长安。因留上林。
窃见四海已定，兆民同情，而季孟闭拒背畔，为天下表的。
常惧海内切齿，思相屠裂，故遗书恋恋，以致恻隐之计。
乃闻季孟归罪于援，而纳王游翁谄邪之说，自谓函谷以西，举足可定，以今而观，竟何如邪？
援间至河内，过存伯春，见其奴吉从西方还，说伯春小弟仲舒望见吉，欲问伯春无它否，竟不能言，晓夕号泣，婉转尘中。
又说其家悲愁之状，不可言也。
夫怨仇可刺不可毁，援闻之，不自知泣下也。
援素知季孟孝爱，曾、闵不过。
夫孝于其亲，岂不慈于其子？
可有子抱三木，而跳梁妄作，自同分羹之事乎？
季孟平生自言所以拥兵众者，欲以保全父母之国而完坟墓也，又言苟厚士大夫而已。
而今所欲全者将破亡之，所欲完者，将毁伤之，所欲厚者将反薄之。
季孟尝折愧子阳而不受其爵，今更共陆陆，欲往附之，将难为颜乎？
若复责以重质，当安从得子主给是哉！
往时子阳独欲以王相待，而春卿拒之；今者归老，更欲低头与小儿曹共槽枥而食，并肩侧身于怨家之朝乎？
男儿溺死何伤而拘游哉！
今国家待春卿意深，宜使牛孺卿与诸耆老大人共说季孟，若计画不从，真可引领去矣。
translation: 
Being in the front does not allow people to differentiate between high and low, and being in the back does not allow people to differentiate between important and important. You can't cause trouble to others. This is something I feel ashamed of.
Therefore, I dare to violate the taboo of sin and risk my life to express my sincerity.
Wei Xiao and I were originally friends.
At the beginning, Kaixiao sent his ministers to Luoyang and said to me: I originally wanted to serve as a Han, so please go and have a look first. If you think it is okay, I will concentrate on serving the Han.
When I get back, I will repay Kui Xiao with my whole heart. I want to sincerely induce him to do good things, and I dare not instigate him to think that he is doing something unjust.
But Kui Xiao harbored a traitorous intention. I secretly hate His Majesty, and attribute this resentment to me.
If I don't say it, there will be no way for my opinion to be expressed.
I would like to come to you in person and state the strategy to eliminate Weihuo. I would like to be able to say everything I want to say and explain my humble opinion, and then return to my hometown to farm and die without regrets.
The emperor then summoned Ma Yuan to discuss the matter, and Ma Yuan made suggestions.
Therefore, Ma Yuan was sent to lead five thousand assault cavalry, and went back and forth to persuade Wei Xiao's generals Gao Jun, Ren Yu's subordinates, and the heroes of the Qiang to analyze the situation and explain the blessings and disadvantages for them, so as to alienate Wei Xiao's party members.
Ma Yuan also wrote to Wei Xiao's general Yang Guang, asking Yang Guang to persuade Wei Xiao. Said: Chunqing is fine.
We parted ways in southern Hebei Province, but there has been no communication. Ma Yuan returned to Chang'an by chance, so he stayed in Shanglin.
I see that the world has been settled, and the people are united, but Kuai Xiao has refused to betray, and has been criticized by the world.
I was often afraid that the country would hate him and wanted to kill him and quarter him, so I wrote to him. Love leads to compassion.
I heard that Wei Xiao was blamed on me, and I accepted Wang Yuan's theory of treachery. I thought that the west of Hangu Pass was safe. Looking at the current situation, what exactly is going on?
Ma Yuan once went to Hanoi to visit Bo Chun and saw Qinuji returning from the west. He said that Bo Chun's younger brother Zhongshu saw Ji and wanted to ask Bo Chun if there was any accident, but he could not speak and sobbed morning and night, silently in the dust.
He also said that the sad situation of his family was indescribable.
Resentment and hatred can be stabbed but not destroyed. Ma Yuan cried unknowingly after hearing this.
Ma Yuansu knew Kui Xiao's filial piety, and even Zeng Shen and Min Zijian would not surpass him.
How can a person who is filial to his parents not be kind to his son?
How can one have the heart to let his son wear the shackles, while the father is still acting arrogantly, like Le Yang, who has the heart to eat soup made from his son's flesh?
Throughout his life, Wei Xiao said that the reason why he supported the army was just to preserve the country of his parents and keep the tombs of his ancestors intact, and he also said that he only treated the scholar-bureaucrats favorably.
But now those who want to preserve it will be destroyed, those who want to be whole will also be destroyed, and those who want to be treated favorably will be treated poorly.
Wei Xiao once humiliated Gongsun Shu and refused to accept Gongsun Shu's grant. Now he is collaborating with Gongsun Shu and still wants to join him. Don't you feel embarrassed?
If Gongsun Shu asked Wei Xiao to send his son to Luoyang as a hostage, where would he get his son?
In the past, Gongsun Shu wanted to make you king, but you refused to accept it. Now that you are old, do you still want to lower your head and eat with the younger generations, side by side in the court of the Yu family?
Why should a man be restricted to swimming when he drowns?
Now that the country has deep intentions for you, you should ask Niu Ruqing and the elders to work together to convince Wei Xiao. If the plan is not accepted, you can lead him away.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
前披舆地图，见天下郡国百有六所，奈何欲以区区二邦以当诸夏百有四乎？
春卿事季孟，外有君臣之义，内有朋友之道。
言君臣邪，固当谏争；语朋友邪，应有切磋。
岂有知其无成，而但萎腇咋舌，叉手从族乎？
及今成计，殊尚善也；过是，欲少味矣。
且来君叔天下信士，朝廷重之，其意依依，常独为西州言。
援商朝廷，尤欲立信于此，必不负约。
援不得久留，愿急赐报。
广竟不答。
八年，帝自西征嚣，至漆，诸将多以王师之重，不宜远入险阻，计冘豫未决。
会召援，夜至，帝大喜，引入，具以群议质之。
援因说隗嚣将帅有土崩之势，兵进有必破之状。
又于帝前聚米为山谷，指画形势，开示众军所从道径往来，分析曲折，昭然可晓。
帝曰： 虏在吾目中矣。
明旦，遂进军至第一，嚣众大溃。
九年，拜援为太中大夫，副来歙监诸将平凉州。
自王莽末，西羌寇边，遂入居塞内，金城属县多为虏有。
来歙奏言陇西侵残，非马援莫能定。
十一年夏，玺书拜援陇西太守。
援乃发步骑三千人，击破先零羌于临氵兆，斩首数百级，获马、牛、羊万余头。
守塞诸羌八千余人诣援降，诣种有数万，屯聚寇抄，拒浩亹隘。
援与扬武将军马成击之。
羌因将其妻子辎重移阻于允吾谷，援乃潜行间道，掩赴其营。
羌大惊坏，复远徙唐翼谷中，援复追讨之。
羌引精兵聚北山上，援陈军向山，而分遣数百骑绕袭其后，乘夜放火，击鼓叫噪，虏遂大溃，凡斩首千余级。
援以兵少，不得穷追，收其谷粮畜产而还。
援中矢贯胫，帝以玺书劳之，赐牛、羊数千头，援尽班诸宾客。
translation: 
Looking at the map, I saw that there are 106 counties and states in the world. How can I use two mere states to resist the 104 states in the world?
When you are doing things, you have the righteousness of a monarch and a minister on the outside, and the way of a friend on the inside.
For rulers and ministers, they should face admonishment and disputes; for friends, they should discuss and discuss matters.
How could he know that he would not succeed, yet be weak and dare not speak, and follow him with his hands crossed to torture his parents, brothers and children?
If the current plan is successful, the remuneration will still be generous; it would be a pity to miss this opportunity.
Qilai Junshu is a believer in the world, and the court respects him. He often speaks for Xizhou and feels reluctant to leave.
I guess the imperial court, in particular, wants to establish its trust in this matter so that it will not break its promise.
Ma Yuan will not stay long. I hope you will reply soon.
Yang Guang didn't even reply.
In the eighth year, the emperor personally marched westward from Kaixiao and arrived at Qixian County. All the generals believed that the king's division was important and should not go deep into the dangers, so they were hesitant about the plan.
The emperor was overjoyed when he called for horse assistance, which arrived at night. He introduced the emperor and asked for his decision-making with everyone's opinions.
Ma Yuan therefore said that General Kaixiao was on the verge of collapse and that he would be defeated if he advanced with troops.
They gathered rice together in front of the emperor to make a model of the valley, drew out the situation, pointed out which mountain road the army should enter and exit from, and analyzed the twists and turns to make it clear.
The emperor said: The enemy is already in my eyes.
The next morning, they marched to the first place and were defeated by the army.
In the ninth year, he worshiped Ma Yuan as Taizhong doctor and helped the generals who came to pacify Liangzhou.
Since the last years of Wang Mang, the Western Qiang invaded the border and moved to the Senei. Most of the counties under Jincheng were occupied by the Qiang.
Lai She reported that the land in Longxi that had been invaded could not be settled without Ma Yuan.
In the summer of the eleventh year, Xi Shu worshiped Ma Yuan as the governor of Longxi.
Ma Yuan then sent out 3,000 infantry and cavalry, defeated the Xianling Qiang in Lintao, beheaded hundreds of people, and captured more than 10,000 horses, cattle and sheep.
More than 8,000 Qiang defenders surrendered to Ma Yuan. Tens of thousands of people from all ethnic groups gathered to attack and plunder, refusing to defend the pass.
Ma Yuan and General Yangwu Ma Cheng launched an attack.
The Qiang then moved his wife's baggage and blocked it in Yunwu Valley. Ma Yuan secretly took a small road and suddenly attacked his camp.
The Qiang people were frightened and moved further to Tangyi Valley, where Ma Yuan pursued them again.
The Qiang led their elite troops to the northern mountains of Tunxi, and sent horses to support Chen's army. They sent hundreds of horsemen to go behind the Qiang soldiers, set fires at night, and beat drums to shout. The Qiang soldiers were routed and more than a thousand people were beheaded.
Ma Yuan had few troops, so he could not pursue them. He collected his grain and livestock products and returned.
Ma Yuan was shot through the calf by a Qiang man. The emperor expressed his condolences with a seal and gave him thousands of cattle and sheep. Ma Yuan was distributed among the guests.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
是时，朝臣以金城破羌之西，涂远多寇，议欲弃之。
援上言，破羌以西城多完牢，易可依固；其田土肥壤，灌溉流通。
如令羌在湟中，则为害不休，不可弃也。
帝然之，于是诏武威太守，令悉还金城客民。
归者三千余口，使各反旧邑。
援奏为置长吏，缮城郭，起坞候，开导水田，劝以耕牧，郡中乐业。
又遣羌豪杨封譬说塞外羌，皆来和亲。
又武都氐人背公孙述来降者，援皆上复其侯王君长，赐印绶，帝悉从之。
乃罢马成军。
十三年，武都参狼羌与塞外诸种为寇，杀长吏。
援将四千余人击之，至氐道县，羌在山上，授军据便地，夺其水草，不与战，羌遂穷困，豪帅数十万户亡出塞，诸种万余人悉降，于是陇右清静。
援务开恩信，宽以待下，任吏以职，但总大体而已。
宾客故人，日满其门。
诸曹时白外事，援辄曰： 此丞、掾之任，何足相烦。
颇哀老子，使得遨游。
若大姓侵小民，黠羌欲旅距，此乃太守事耳。
傍县尝有报仇者，吏民惊言羌反，百姓奔入城郭。
狄道长诣门，请闭城发兵。援时与宾客饮，大笑曰： 烧虏何敢复犯我。
晓狄道长归守寺舍，良怖急者，可床下伏。
后稍定，郡中服之。
视事六年，征入为虎贲中郎将。
初，援在陇西上书，言宜如旧铸五铢钱。
事下三府，三府奏以为未可许，事遂寝。乃援还，从公府求得前奏，难十余条，乃随牒解释，更具表言。
帝从之，天下赖其便。
援自还京师，数被进见。
为人明须发，眉目如画，闲于进对，尤善述前世行事。
每言及三辅长者，下至闾里少年，皆可观听。
自皇太子、诸王侍闻者，莫不属耳忘倦。
translation: 
At this time, the court officials thought that Jincheng was in the west of Poqiang, and the road was far away and there were many bandits, so they decided to abandon it.
Ma Yuan wrote a letter saying that most of the cities to the west of Poqiang are intact and strong and easy to defend; their fields are fertile and have good irrigation.
If the Qiang people are allowed to stay in Huangzhong, the harm will continue, so we cannot give up.
The emperor agreed, so he ordered the prefect of Wuwei to order all the residents of Jincheng in Wuwei to return to Jincheng.
There were more than 3,000 people who returned, so they all returned to their original towns.
Ma Yuanzou told them to appoint chief officials, repair the city walls, build small towns, open up paddy fields, and encourage farming and animal husbandry, so that the county can live and work in peace and contentment.
He also sent Qiang rich man Yang Fengxiao to persuade the Qiang people outside the Great Wall to come and get married.
Also, when the Wudu clan rebelled against Gongsun Shu and surrendered, Ma Yuandu petitioned their princes and princes to be reinstated and given seals and ribbons, which the imperial capital approved.
Undo Ma Chengjun.
In the thirteenth year, the Wudu Shenlangqiang and other tribes outside the Great Wall became bandits and killed the chief officials.
Ma Yuan led more than 4,000 people to attack them. When they arrived at Didao County, the Qiang were on the mountain. Ma Yuan's army occupied a favorable terrain and seized the water and grass of the Qiang army. If they did not fight with them, the Qiang army would be impoverished. The wealthy people led hundreds of thousands of households to escape from the outside of the wall. More than 10,000 people of all ethnic groups surrendered, so Longyou was quiet.
Ma Yuan focused on spreading favor and trust, being lenient to his subordinates, and appointing officials according to their positions, while he himself only focused on major issues.
Guests and old friends gradually gathered under his door.
When subordinate officials sometimes talked about external affairs, Ma Yuan always said: "This is the task of the chief historians and secretaries, so you don't need to tell me."
Feeling pity for me, I am able to enjoy my leisure time.
If the big surname bullies the small people and the cunning Qiang people disobey, it is the governor's business.
There were people in neighboring counties who wanted to take revenge. The officials and the people were panicked and said it was the Qiang people who had done it. The people rushed into the city.
Daochang Di came to the door and asked to close the city gate and send troops to attack. At this time, Ma Yuan was drinking with the guests and laughed and said: How dare the Shao Qiang come to attack me again.
Tell Taoist Master Di to go back and guard the house. Those who are timid and afraid of death can hide under the bed.
Later, the turmoil calmed down, and everyone in the county was convinced of Ma Yuan's courage.
He served in Longxi for six years and was called back to worship him as Huben Zhonglang.
At first, when Ma Yuan was in Longxi, he wrote a letter saying that five baht coins should be minted as in the past.
The imperial court transferred the matter to the offices set up by Taiwei, Situ and Sikong. The three palaces reported that it was unacceptable, so the matter was shelved. When Ma Yuan returned to the capital, he obtained the memorials from the previous three palaces from the government, debated more than ten points, explained them with the ultimatum, and stated the reasons in a table.
The emperor agreed, and the world relied on his convenience.
Ma Yuan returned to the capital and was summoned many times.
Ma Yuan paid attention to grooming his beard and hair, and his features were picturesque. He is good at answering questions and is especially good at telling stories about past lives.
Every time I talk about the elders from the three auxiliaries to the young people in the countryside, it is very touching.
When the crown prince and the attendants of the kings heard this, they all listened so much that they forgot to get tired.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
又善兵策，帝常言 伏波论兵，与我意合 ，每有所谋，未尝不用。
初，卷人维汜，訞言称神，有弟子数百人，坐伏诛。
后其弟子李广等宣言汜神化不死，以诳惑百姓。
十七年，遂共聚会徒党，攻没晥城，杀晥侯刘闵，自称 南岳大师 。
遣谒者张宗将兵数千人讨之，复为广所败。
于是使援发诸郡兵，合万余人，击破广等，斩之。
又交阯女子徵侧及女弟徵贰反，攻没其郡，九真、日南、合浦蛮夷皆应之，寇略岭外六十余城，侧自立为王。
于是玺书拜援伏波将军，以扶乐侯刘隆为副，督楼船将军段志等南击交阯。
军至合浦而志病卒，诏援并将其兵。
遂缘海而进，随山刊道千余里。
十八年春，军至浪泊上，与贼战，破之，斩首数千级，降者万余人。
援追徵侧等至禁谿，数败之，贼遂散走。
明年正月，斩徵侧、徵贰，传首洛阳。
封援为新息侯，食邑三千户。
援乃击牛酾酒，劳飨军士。
从容谓官属曰： 吾从弟少游常哀吾慷慨多大志，曰： 士生一世，但取衣食裁足，乘下泽车，御款段马，为郡掾史，守坟墓，乡里称善人，斯可矣。
致求盈余，但自苦耳。
当吾在浪泊、西里间，虏未灭之时，下潦上雾，毒气重蒸，仰视飞鸢跕跕堕水中，卧念少游平生时语，何可得也！
今赖士大夫之力，被蒙大恩，猥先诸君纡佩金紫，且喜且惭。
吏士皆伏称万岁。
援将楼船大小二千余艘，战士二万余人，进击九真贼徵侧余党都羊等，自无功至居风，斩获五千余人，峤南悉平。
援奏言西于县户有三万二千，远界去庭千余里，请分为封溪、望海二县，许之。
援所过辄为郡县治城郭，穿渠灌溉，以利其民。
条奏越律与汉律驳者十余事，与越人申明旧制以约束之，自后骆越奉行马将军故事。
二十年秋，振旅还京师，军吏经瘴疫死者十四五。赐援兵车一乘，朝见位次九卿。
援好骑，善别名马，于交阯得骆越铜鼓，乃铸为马式，还上之。
translation: 
He is also good at using military strategies. The emperor once said: "Fu Bo discusses military affairs, which agrees with me." Every time he came up with a suggestion, there was no one that was not adopted.
At first, Wei Si was involved in the scandal, and he deceived people by saying that he was a god. He had hundreds of disciples, and they were all beheaded.
Later, his disciples Li Guang and others declared that Wei Si would become immortal and deceive the people.
In the seventeenth year, he gathered his disciples, captured Wancheng, killed Liu Min, the Marquis of Anhui, and called himself "Master Nanyue".
The imperial court sent envoy Zhang Zong to lead thousands of troops to attack, but was defeated by Li Guang.
So he sent Ma Yuan to organize soldiers from various counties, a total of more than 10,000 people, defeated Li Guang and others and beheaded him.
She also handed over to Zhi Nv Zhengbian and Meizheng Erzao, and captured the county town. Jiuzhen, Rinan, and Hepu barbarians all responded to her and invaded more than 60 cities outside the ridge, and Zhengbian established himself as king.
So with the emperor's seal, he appointed Ma Yuan as General Fubo, Marquis of Fule Liu Long as his deputy, General Duan Zhi and others to conquer Jiaozhi in the south.
When the army arrived at Hepu, Duan Zhi died of illness, and Ma Yuan was ordered to lead his troops.
So we moved forward along the sea road and followed the mountains for more than a thousand miles.
In the spring of the 18th year, the army went to Liubo, fought with the bandits, and defeated the bandit army. Thousands of people were beheaded, and more than 10,000 people were surrendered.
Ma Yuan pursued Zheng Bian and others to the Forbidden River and defeated the bandits several times. The thieves dispersed and fled.
In the first month of the second year, Zheng Side and Zheng Er were beheaded, and their heads were brought to Luoyang.
Ma Yuan was granted the title of Marquis of Xinxi, with a settlement of 3,000 households.
Ma Yuan killed the ox and poured wine to comfort the soldiers.
He calmly said to the officials: My younger brother Shaoyou often laments my generosity and ambition, saying that as long as a scholar has food and clothing, can ride a short-hub cart in the swamp, drive a slow-moving horse, be the governor of the county, guard the graves of his ancestors, and be praised by the villagers as a good man, that will be all.
As for pursuing something more, you are asking for trouble.
When I was between Langbo and Xili, before the thieves were extinguished, there was water below and fog above, fumigated by poisonous gas. I looked up at the giant eagle in the sky tiptoeing down into the water. Thinking back to what Shaoyou said to me in his life, I really don’t know how to get it!
Now, thanks to everyone's joint efforts, I have been greatly favored, and I am lucky enough to be promoted to a marquis before all the other monarchs. I am really happy and ashamed.
The officials all fell to the ground and said long live.
Ma Yuanlou had more than 2,000 large and small ships and more than 20,000 soldiers. He attacked the Jiuzhen thieves and conquered the remaining party Duyang and others. From futile to dominant, they captured more than 5,000 people and Lingnan was all pacified.
Ma Yuan reported that there were 32,000 households in the west county, and the boundary was more than a thousand miles away from the county. He requested that the county be divided into two counties: Fengxi and Wanghai. The emperor agreed.
Wherever Ma Yuan went, he managed cities and towns for counties and dug canals for irrigation to benefit the people.
He also made it clear that the Yue laws were not exactly the same as the Han laws, and stated a dozen things that were different from the Han laws, and explained the old system to the Yue people to restrain them. From then on, Luo Yue abided by General Ma's old system.
In the autumn of the 20th year, after reorganizing the army and returning to the capital, four to five out of ten military officials died of miasma and epidemics. They were rewarded with a horse reinforcement chariot, and their status was second only to Jiu Qing when they came to court.
Ma Yuan loved horseback riding and was good at identifying famous horses. He got the Luo Yue bronze drum in Jiaochangzhi, and used it to cast a model of the horse, which he presented to the emperor upon his return.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
因表曰： 夫行天莫如龙，行地莫如马。
马者甲兵之本。国之大用。
安宁则以别尊卑之序，有变则以济远近之难。
昔有骐骥，一日千里，伯乐见之，昭然不惑。
近世有西河子舆，亦明相法。
子舆传西河仪长孺，长孺传茂陵丁君都，君群传成纪杨子阿，臣援尝师事子阿，受相马骨法。
考之于行事，辄有验效。
臣愚以为传闻不如亲见，视景不如察形。
今欲形之于生马，则骨法难备具，又不可传之于后。
孝武皇帝时，善相马者东门京铸作铜马法献之，有诏立马于鲁班门外，则更名鲁班门曰金马门。
臣谨依仪氏〈革奇〉，中帛氏口齿，谢氏唇鬐，丁氏身中，备此数家骨相以为法。
马高三尺五寸，围四尺五寸，有诏置于宣德殿下，以为名马式焉。
初，援军还，将至，故人多迎劳之。平陵人孟冀，名有计谋，于坐贺援。
援谓之曰： 吾望子有善言，反同众人邪？
昔伏波将军路博德开置七郡，裁封数百户；今我微劳，猥飨大县，功薄赏厚，何以能长久乎？
先生奚用相济？
冀曰： 愚不及。
援曰： 方今匈奴、乌桓尚扰北边，欲自请击之。男儿要当死于边野，以马革裹尸还葬耳，何能卧床上在儿女子手中邪！
冀曰： 谅为烈士，当如此矣
还月余，会匈奴、乌桓寇扶风，援以三辅侵扰，园陵危逼，因请行，许之。
自九月至京师，十二月复出屯襄国。
诏百官祖道。援谓黄门郎梁松、窦固曰： 凡人为贵，当使可贱，如卿等欲不可复贱，居高坚自持，勉思鄙言。
松后果以贵满致灾，固亦几不免。
明年秋，援乃将三千骑出高柳，行雁门、代郡、上谷障塞。
translation: 
And the above chapter says: There is nothing better than a dragon in the sky, and nothing like a horse in the earth.
Horses are the foundation of military warfare and are of great use to the country.
When the country is in peace, it can be used to identify the order of superiority and inferiority. When the country is in trouble, it can be used to overcome difficulties near and far.
In the past, there was a unicorn that could travel thousands of miles in one day. Bole saw it and understood it.
In modern times, there was Xihe Ziyu, who also understood the method of physiognomy.
Ziyu was passed on to Xiheyi Changru, Changru was passed on to Maolingding Jundu, and Jundu was passed on to Chengji Yangzi'a. I once worshiped Zi'a as my teacher and accepted the Xiangma bone method.
When tested in fact, the results will always be seen.
I think hearing is not as good as seeing it in person, and seeing a shadow is not as good as observing the shape.
Now if we want to take the shape of a living horse, then the bone method is difficult to prepare in a horse body, and it cannot be passed down to future generations.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, a man who was good at looking at horses made a bronze horse and presented it to Dongmenjing. The emperor issued an edict to erect the horse outside the Luban Gate and rename the Luban Gate to the Golden Horse Gate.
I am now strictly based on the Yi family's horse head, the Zhongbo family's mouth, the Xie family's lips and the mane, and the Ding family's body, and gathered the bones of these families on one model to serve as a standard.
The horse is three feet five inches high and four feet five inches wide. The emperor ordered this horse model to be given to His Highness Xuande as a standard model for famous horses.
At first, when Ma Yuan's army came back and was about to arrive, many old friends welcomed him to express their condolences. Meng Ji, a native of Pingling, who was famous for his strategizing, was here to congratulate Ma Yuan.
Ma Yuan said to him: I hope you have kind words to encourage me, but are you like everyone else?
In the past, Fubo General Lu Bode opened seven counties and sealed hundreds of households; now I only have a small contribution, but I have 3,000 households in the city. I have a small contribution and a big reward. How can I last long?
How can you help me sir?
Meng Ji said: I didn't expect it.
Ma Yuan said: Now the Xiongnu and Wuhuan are still intruding in the north. I would like to ask for a crusade. The man should die in the wilderness and come back to be buried with his body wrapped in horse leather. How can he sleep in bed and watch over his wife and children?
Meng Ji said: A true martyr should be like this.
More than a month after returning, the Xiongnu and Wuhuan invaded Fufeng. Ma Yuan used his three assistants to invade Sao. Yuanling was in danger. He requested to send troops and was allowed.
After arriving in Beijing in September, he sent troops to station in Xiangguo in December.
When the officials were ordered to bid farewell, Ma Yuan said to Liang Song and Dou Gu, Huangmenmen: When a mortal becomes a noble, he must also be able to become poor and lowly. If you can no longer be poor and lowly, you must be able to control yourself in high positions. I advise you to think of my instructions.
As expected, Liang Song later suffered a disaster because of his excessive wealth, and Dou Gu was almost unavoidable.
In the autumn of the next year, Ma Yuan led three thousand horses out of Gaoliu and marched to Yanmen, Daijun, Shanggu and other frontier fortresses.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
乌桓候者见汉军至，虏遂散去，援无所得而还。
援尝有疾，梁松来候之，独拜床下，援不答。
松去后，诸子问曰： 梁伯孙帝婿，贵重朝廷，公卿已下莫不惮之，大人奈何独不为礼？
援曰： 我乃松父友也。虽贵，何得失其序乎？
松由是恨之。
二十四年，武威将军刘尚击武陵五溪蛮夷，深入，军没，援因复请行。
时年六十二，帝愍其老，未许之。
援自请曰： 臣尚能披甲上马。 帝令试之。
援据鞍顾眄，以示可用。
帝笑曰： 瞿铄哉是翁也！
遂遣援率中郎将马武、耿舒、刘匡、孙永等，将十二郡募士及弛刑四万余人征五溪。
援夜与送者诀，谓友人谓者杜愔曰： 吾受厚恩，年迫余日索，常恐不得死国事。今获所愿，甘心瞑目，但畏长者家儿或在左右，或与从事，殊难得调，介介独恶是耳。
明年春，军至临乡，遇贼攻县，援迎击，破之，斩获二千余人，皆散走入竹林中。
初，军次下隽，有两道可人，从壶头则路近而水崄，从充则涂夷而运远，帝初以为疑。
及军至，耿舒欲从充道，援以为弃日费粮，不如进壶头，扼其喉咽，充贼自破。
以事上之，帝从援策。
三月，进营壶头。
贼乘高守隘，水疾，船不得上。
会暑甚，士卒多疫死，援亦中病，遂困，乃穿岸为室，以避炎气。
贼每升险鼓噪，援辄曳足以观之，左右哀其壮意，莫不为之流涕。
耿舒与兄好畤侯弇书曰： 前舒上书当先击充，粮虽难运而兵马得用，军人数万争欲先奋。
今壶头竟不得进，大众怫郁行死，诚可痛惜。
前到临乡，贼无故自致，若夜击之，即可殄灭。
伏波类西域贾胡，到一处辄止，以是失利。
今果疾疫，皆如舒言。 弇得书，奏之。
帝乃使虎贲中郎将梁松乘驿责问援，因代监军。
会援病卒，松宿怀不平，遂因事陷之。
帝大怒，追收援新息侯印绶。
初，兄子严、敦并喜讥议，而通轻侠客。
援前在交阯，还书诫之曰： 吾欲汝曹闻人过失，如闻父母之名，耳可得闻，口不可得言也。
translation: 
When Wuhuan's scouting horse saw the Han army arriving, he fled. Ma Yuan returned with nothing to gain.
Ma Yuan was ill. Liang Song came to greet him and met him under the bed, but Ma Yuan did not respond.
After Liang Song left, his sons asked, "Liang Song is the emperor's son-in-law. He is a high-ranking official in the court. Everyone below is afraid of him. Why don't you respond to him?"
Ma Yuan said: "I am a friend of Mr. Liang's father. Although he is expensive, how can I lose my seniority?"
Song therefore hated Ma Yuan.
In the twenty-fourth year, Wuwei General Liu Shang attacked Wuxi barbarians in Wuling and penetrated deeply. The army was destroyed, so Ma Yuan requested to send troops again.
Ma Yuan was sixty-two years old at this time. The emperor felt pity for his old age and disagreed.
Ma Yuan asked himself: "I can still put on my armor and mount my horse." The emperor ordered him to try it.
Ma Yuan looked left and right while leaning on the saddle to show that he was available.
The emperor smiled and said: This old man is so healthy!
So Ma Yuan was sent to lead Zhonglang generals Ma Wu, Geng Shu, Liu Kuang, Sun Yong and others. He led more than 40,000 soldiers recruited from twelve counties and unchained prisoners to conquer Wuxi.
Ma Yuan said goodbye to those who were seeing him off at night, and told his friend Du Xu, who was paying homage to him, saying: "I have been greatly favored. I am young and don't have much time left. I am often afraid that I will not die in national affairs. Now that I have been given the opportunity to go on an expedition, I am willing to die in peace. What I am afraid of is that some elderly family members may be around or involved in the funeral affairs, and they are particularly difficult to dispatch. I am only worried about this."
In the spring of the next year, when the army arrived in Linxiang, they encountered thieves attacking the county town. Ma Yuan went to meet them, defeated the thieves, and captured more than 2,000 people. The thieves all dispersed into the bamboo forest.
At first, when the army arrived at Xiajun, there were two ways to enter. One was from Hutou, which was close but dangerous, and the other was from Chongxian, which was spacious and safe but had a long transportation distance. The emperor began to be a little suspicious.
When the army arrived, Geng Shu wanted to enter from Chong County. Ma Yuan thought that the long journey would take a long time and cost a lot of food, so it would be better to enter from Hutou, strangle him by the throat, and destroy himself as a thief.
In this way, the emperor was informed, and the emperor followed the horse to support him.
In March, we entered Hutou.
The thieves took advantage of the heights to guard the dangerous pass, but the water flow was too fast and the boat could not get on.
It coincided with the scorching heat, and many soldiers fell ill and died. Ma Yuan himself also fell ill, so he was trapped and dug a hole on the river bank to make a house to escape the scorching heat.
Whenever the thief reached a dangerous spot, he would beat drums and shout, and Ma Yuan would often drag his sick leg to check on him. Everyone was moved by his ambition and shed tears.
Geng Shu wrote to his brother Hou Geng and said: Last time I wrote a letter suggesting that we attack Chong County first. Although food was difficult to transport, soldiers and horses were able to be used. Thousands of soldiers rushed to advance first.
It is a pity that now we are trapped in the pot head and unable to enter, and everyone is dying of depression.
The last time I came to Linxiang, the thieves came by themselves without any reason. At that time, if they attacked at night, they could be eliminated.
Fu Bo used his troops like Jia Hu in the Western Regions. He stopped moving forward after reaching a certain point, so he lost.
Now we are indeed trapped by the epidemic, just as I predicted.
The good marquis got the letter and reported it to the emperor. The emperor sent Huben Zhonglang General Liang Song from the post road to question Ma Yuan and supervise the army on his behalf.
It happened that Ma Yuan died of illness. Liang Song held a grudge because Ma Yuan did not respond to courtesy when he visited Ma Yuan for illness, so he took the opportunity to frame Ma Yuan.
The emperor was furious and pursued Ma Yuan's Xinxihou Yinshou.
At first, Ma Yan and Ma Dun, the sons of brother Ma Yuan, liked to ridicule current affairs and only interacted lightly with knights.
Ma Yuan used to be in Jiaochangzhi and wrote home to admonish: I think you should listen to the names of your parents when you hear other people's faults. You can hear them with your ears, but you can't speak them with your mouth.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
好论议人长短，妄是非正法，此吾所大恶也，宁死不愿闻子孙有此行也。
汝曹知吾恶之甚矣，所以复言者，施衿结衤离，申父母之戒，欲使汝曹不忘之耳。
龙伯高敦厚周慎，口无择言，谦约节俭，廉公有威，吾爱之重之，愿汝曹效之。
杜季良豪侠好义，忧人之忧，乐人之乐，清浊无所失，父丧致客，数郡毕至，吾爱之重之，不愿汝曹效也。
效伯高不得，犹为谨敕之士，所谓刻鹄不成尚类鹜者也。
效季良不得，陷为天下轻薄子，所谓画虎不成反类狗者也。
迄今季良尚未可知，郡将下车辄切齿，州郡以为言，吾常为寒心，是以不愿子孙效也。
季良名保，京兆人，时为越骑司马。
保仇人上书，讼保 为行浮薄，乱群惑众，伏波将军万里还书以诫兄子，而梁松、窦固以之交结，将扇其轻伪，败乱诸夏 。
书奏，帝召责松、固，以讼书及援诫书示之，松、固叩头流血，而得不罪。
诏免保官。
伯高名述，亦京兆人，为山都长，由此擢拜零陵太守。
初，援在交阯，常饵薏苡实，用能轻身省欲，以胜瘴气。
南方薏苡实大，援欲以为种，军还，载之一车。
时人以为南士珍怪，权贵皆望之。
援时方有宠，故莫以闻。
及卒后，有上书谮之者，以为前所载还，皆明珠文犀。
马武与於陵侯侯昱等皆以章言其状，帝益怒。
援妻孥惶惧，不敢以丧还旧茔，裁买城西数亩地槁葬而已。
宾客故人莫敢吊会。
translation: 
I like to talk about people's merits and ridicule current affairs. This is what I hate the most. I would rather die than hear my descendants behave like this.
You know that I hate this matter very much. The reason why I want to talk about this matter again is to express the admonition of my parents just like a man and a woman divorce when they get married, so that you can never forget it.
Long Bo was honest, thoughtful and prudent, spoke his language without hesitation, was modest and frugal, honest, just and prestigious. I love him and respect him very much, and hope you can learn from him.
Du Jiliang, a heroic hero, was very loyal, concerned about others' worries, and happy with others. He got along well with both good and bad people. When his father died, people from several counties came to express their condolences. I love him and respect him, but I don't want you to learn from him.
He is not as good as Long Bo, but he is still a cautious and diligent person. The so-called carving of a swan can be like a bird.
After learning from Du Jiliang, he degenerated into a frivolous person in the world. The so-called painting of a tiger is like a dog instead of a tiger.
Until now, Du Jiliang is still unknown. The generals in the county hated him with gnashing of teeth as soon as they got off the bus. Everyone in the prefecture and county talked about him. I often feel sorry for him, so I don't want my descendants to imitate him.
Du Jiliang, named Bao, was born in Jingzhao and was a Yueqi Sima at that time.
Du Jiliang's enemies wrote a letter accusing him of frivolous behavior and confusing the masses. General Fu Bo wrote a letter from thousands of miles away to admonish his brother. Liang Song and Dou Gu's association with him will incite frivolity and hypocrisy and destroy China.
The emperor summoned Liang Song and Dou Gu and asked them to give in. He showed them the petition paper and Ma Yuan's letter of command. Liang Song and Dou Gu kowtowed and bled, so they were not punished.
The imperial edict removed Du Jiliang from his official position.
Long Bogao Mingshu, who was also from Jingzhao, was the county magistrate of Shandu, so he was promoted to the prefect of Lingling.
At first, Ma Yuan often ate barley when he was in Jiaozhi, because barley can remove miasma, and taking it for a long time can lighten the body and save desires.
The coix seed in the south has big fruits. Ma Yuan wanted to use it as seeds. When he returned to the army, he took a cart with it.
At that time, people thought it was a rare monster native to the south, and the dignitaries watched.
Ma Yuan was favored by the emperor at that time, so no one dared to report to the court.
After Ma Yuan died, someone wrote a false accusation, saying that all the treasures Ma Yuan had brought back from the south were pearls, colorful rhinos, and other treasures.
Ma Wu and Yu Linghou Hou Yu all wrote memorials to explain its shape, which made the emperor even more angry.
Ma Yuan's wife and sons were too frightened to transport Ma Yuan's coffin back to the old cemetery for burial. They only bought a few acres of land in the west of the city and buried it hastily.
The guests did not dare to express their condolences.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
严与援妻子草索相连，诣阙请罪。帝乃出松书以示之，方知所坐，上书诉冤，前后六上，辞甚哀切，然后得葬。
又前云阳令同郡朱勃诣阙上书曰：臣闻王德圣政，不忘人之功，采其一美，不求备于众。
故高祖赦蒯通而以王礼葬田横，大臣旷然，咸不自疑。
夫大将在外，谗言在内，微过辄记，大功不计，诚为国之所慎也。
故章邯畏口而奔楚，燕将据聊而不下。
岂其甘心末规哉，悼巧言之伤类也。窃见故伏波将军新息侯马援，拔自西州，钦慕圣义，间关险难，触冒万死，孤立群贵之间，傍无一言之佐，驰深渊，入虎口，岂顾计哉！
宁自知当要七郡之使，徼封侯之福邪？
八年，车驾西讨隗嚣，国计狐疑，众营未集，援建宜进之策，卒破西州。
及吴汉下陇，冀路断隔，惟独狄道为国坚守，士民饥困，寄命漏刻。援奉诏西使，镇慰边众，乃招集豪杰，晓诱羌戎，谋如涌泉，势如转规，遂救倒县之急，存几亡之城，兵全师进，因粮敌人，陇、冀略平，而独守空郡，兵动有功，师进辄克。
铢锄先零，缘入山谷，猛怒力战，飞矢贯胫。
又出征交阯，土多瘴气，援与妻子生诀，无悔吝之心，遂斩灭徵侧，克平一州，间复南讨，立陷临乡，师已有业，未竟而死，吏士虽疫，援不独存。
夫战或以久而立功，或以速而致败，深入未必为得，不进未必为非。
人情岂乐久屯绝地，不生归哉！
惟援得事朝廷二十二年，北出塞漠，南度江海，触冒害气，僵死军事，名灭爵绝，国土不传。
海内不知其过，众庶未闻其毁，卒遇三夫之言，横被诬罔之谗，家属杜门，葬不归墓，怨隙并兴，宗亲怖栗。
死者不能自列，生者莫为之讼，臣窃伤之。夫明主醲于用赏，约于用刑。
translation: 
Ma Yan and Ma Yuan's wife were connected by a straw rope and went to the court to plead guilty. The emperor took out Liang Song's false accusation. Only then did he realize that it was a false accusation based on grievances, so he wrote a letter to complain about his injustice. He expressed his condolences six times before being buried.
Another time ago, Yunyang ordered Zhu Bo from the same county to write to the emperor: I have heard that the virtue of a king and the governance of a saint are not to forget the merits of others, to take advantage of others' beauty, and not to seek perfection and blame.
Therefore, Emperor Gaozu pardoned Kuai Tong and buried Tian Heng with royal rites. The ministers were relieved and did not feel doubtful.
When generals are outside, they are slanderous, and they only find fault with other people's minor faults, regardless of their great achievements. This is what the country should be cautious about.
Therefore, Zhang Han surrendered to Xiang Yu because he was afraid of the slander. After General Yan captured Liaocheng, he did not dare to go back because he was afraid of the slander.
Are they willing to do this? It's hateful that clever words hurt good people. I saw that the late General Fubo, Xinxihou Ma Yuan, was selected from Xizhou. He admired the saints and sages and was loyal and righteous. He went through rugged and dangerous terrain and risked thousands of deaths. He was isolated among the nobles and could not get a word of help. He ran into the abyss and entered the tiger's mouth. What did he think about?
Did he know that he wanted to be the envoy of the seven counties and gain the blessing of a feudal lord?
In the eighth year, the emperor went to the west to conquer Weixiao. Everyone was undecided and the camps did not assemble. Ma Yuan proposed the march route and suggested a strategy of rapid advance, and Xizhou was quickly conquered.
Later, Wu Han captured Longxi, and the Ji road was cut off. Only Didao stood firm for the country. The soldiers and people were hungry and trapped, and life and death hung in the balance. Ma Yuan served as an emissary to the west to comfort the people at the frontier, so he recruited heroes and issued instructions to induce the Qiang Rong. Strategies flowed out like a spring. It turned out that the situation was like turning a boulder on a mountain of ten thousand ren. Only then was the crisis resolved, and the lost cities of several generals were saved. The whole army moved in and obtained food on the spot, so that Longji was pacified, while Ma Yuan defended Kongjun alone. He sent out troops with merit, and defeated the enemy when he advanced.
During the battle to defeat the Xianling Qiang, Ma Yuan sneaked into the valley and fought fiercely, and his calf was shot through by an arrow.
He also set out to conquer Jiaozhi, and the land was plagued by miasma. Ma Yuan separated from his wife and had no regrets about surviving, so he destroyed the expedition side and conquered and pacified the whole state. Immediately afterwards, they went south to conquer Linxiang and soon captured Linxiang. The division had already made achievements, but Ma Yuan died before completing the task of going south. Although the officials and soldiers were sick of the epidemic, Ma Yuan did not survive alone.
Sometimes wars are long and result in success, sometimes they are quick and result in failure. Going deep into enemy territory may not necessarily lead to victory, and not advancing is not necessarily a mistake.
Who is willing to stay in a desperate situation for a long time without wanting to return alive?
Only Ma Yuan stayed in the court for twenty-two years. He went north to the frontier desert and crossed the rivers and seas in the south. He was exposed to the epidemic and died in his service. His reputation was wiped out and his reputation was not passed down in the country.
The people in the country did not know what his fault was, and the people did not hear that he had any injuries. Finally, he was falsely accused by villains and was slandered. His family closed the door and could not be buried in the tomb. There were resentments and grievances, and the clan members trembled.
The deceased could not state the actual situation of right and wrong, and no one among the living dared to redress his grievances. I really felt sad. A wise monarch is more generous with rewards than with punishments.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
高祖尝与陈平金四万斤以间楚军，不问出入所为，岂复疑以钱谷间哉？
夫操孔父之忠而不能自免于谗，此邹阳之所悲也。
《诗》云： 取彼谗人，投畀豺虎。
豺虎不食，投畀有北。
有北不受，投畀有昊。
此言欲令上天而平其恶。
惟陛下留思竖儒之言，无使功臣怀恨黄泉。
臣闻《春秋》之义，罪以功除；圣王之祀，臣有五义。
若援，所谓以死勤事者也。
愿下公卿平援功罪，宜绝宜续，以厌海内之望。臣年已六十，常伏田里，窃感栾布哭彭越之义，冒陈悲愤，战栗阙庭。
书奏，报，归田里。
勃字叔阳，年十二能诵《诗》、《书》。
常候援兄况。
勃衣方领，能矩步。辞言娴雅，援裁知书，见之自失。
况知其意，乃自酌酒慰援曰： 朱勃小器速成，智尽此耳，卒当从汝禀学，勿畏也。
朱勃未二十，右扶风请试守渭城宰，及援为将军，封侯，而勃位不过县令。
援后虽贵，常待以旧恩而卑侮之，勃愈身自亲，及援遇谗，唯勃能终焉。
肃宗即位，追赐勃子谷二千斛。
初，援兄子婿王磐子石，王莽从兄平阿侯仁之子也。
莽败，磐拥富资居故国，为人尚气节而爱土好施，有名江淮间，后游京师，与卫尉阴兴，大司空朱浮、齐王章共相友善。
援谓姊子曹训曰： 王氏，废姓也。子石当屏居自守，而反游京师长者，用气自行，多所陵折，其败必也。
后岁余，磐果与司隶校尉苏邺、丁鸿事相连，坐死洛阳狱。
而磐子肃复出入北宫及王侯邸第。
援谓司马吕种曰； 建武之元，名为天下重开。
自今以往，海内日当安耳。
translation: 
Emperor Gaozu once gave Chen Ping 40,000 kilograms of gold to bribe the Chu army. He didn't ask how the gold was used. Could it be that he was wondering if the money was idle and useless?
Even though Confucius was so loyal, he could not avoid Ji Sun's slander, which Zou Yang felt sad about.
"Poetry·Xiaoya" says: Catch the slanderer and throw him to feed the wolves, tigers and leopards.
If the jackals, tigers and leopards don't eat it, they will be thrown into the barren land of the north.
The Northern Kingdom did not want him, saying that he would be handed over to God for punishment.
This is to ask God to appease its evil.
Your Majesty, please pay attention to the words of this young man, and do not let the heroes bear hatred in hell.
I heard the meaning of "Spring and Autumn", that if you commit a crime, you can pay for it with merit; there are five kinds of sacrifices that ministers should make to the sage king.
Ma Yuan, for example, is one of the five sacrifices who sacrifices himself for hard work.
May your Majesty ask the ministers to evaluate Ma Yuan's merits and crimes and decide whether the heir should be extinguished or continued to satisfy the wishes of the people at home. I was sixty years old and often lived in the fields. I lamented Luan Bu's loyalty in crying and offering sacrifices to Peng Yue, so he risked his life to express his grief and indignation. Trembling in the palace.
After the book was submitted and reported to the emperor, Zhu Bo returned to the countryside.
Zhu Bo, also known as Shuyang, could recite "Poems" and "Books" at the age of twelve.
He once served Ma Yuan's brother Ma Kuang.
Zhu Bo was wearing a scholar's square-collared clothes, walked in a well-behaved manner, and spoke elegantly and quietly. Ma Yuan had just studied calligraphy and felt inferior to him when he saw him.
Ma Kuang knew what he meant, so he drank some wine himself to comfort Ma Yuan and said, "Zhu Bo is small and can succeed quickly, but his talent stops here. I will learn from you in the future. Don't be afraid."
When Zhu was not twenty years old, You Fufeng asked him to try to be the county magistrate of Weicheng. Later, Ma Yuan became a general and a marquis, while Zhu Bo's official position was only a small county magistrate.
Although Ma Yuan later became a noble man, he often treated Zhu Bo with humiliation and kindness, and Zhu Bo loved him even more. When Ma Yuan was slandered, only Zhu Bo stepped forward to end the friendship.
Suzong ascended the throne and posthumously gave Zhu Bo's son Gu two thousand dendrobiums.
At first, brother Ma Yuan's son-in-law was named Wang Pan Zishi, and he was the son of Wang Mang's brother Ahou Wangren.
Wang Mang was defeated, and Wang Panzishi owned property and lived in his former residence. He was a man of integrity and caring and liked to give alms. He was famous in the Jianghuai River. Later, he became friendly with Wei Wei Yinxing, Da Sikong Zhufu and Qi Wangzhang.
Ma Yuan said to his sister's son Cao Xun: "The Wang family is now a collapsed family. Zi Shi should live in seclusion and keep to himself. Now he is socializing with the powerful people in the capital, doing his own thing with his anger, and doing many domineering things. He will be defeated in the future."
More than a year later, Wang Panguo had many affairs with Su Ye and Ding Hong, the captains of Sili School, and died in Luoyang Prison after being convicted.
Wang Pan's son Wang Su once again visited the North Palace and the prince's residence.
Ma Yuan said to Sima Lu Zhong: The origin of building military power is called the reopening of the world.
From now on, the country will become increasingly stable.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
但忧国家诸子并壮，而旧防未立，若多通宾客，则大狱起矣。卿曹戒慎之！
及郭后薨，有上书者，以为肃等受诛之家，客因事生乱，虑致贯高、任章之变。
帝怒，乃下郡县收捕诸王宾客，更相牵引，死者以千数。
吕种亦豫其祸，临命叹曰： 马将军诚神人也！
永平初，援女立为皇后，显宗图画建武中名臣、列将于云台，以椒房故，独不及援。
东平王苍观图，言于帝曰： 何故不画伏波将军像？
帝笑而不言。
至十七年，援夫人卒，乃更修封树，起祠堂。
建初三年，肃宗使五官中郎将持节追策，谥援曰忠成侯。
四子：廖、防、光、客卿。
客卿幼而歧嶷，年六岁，能应接诸公，专对宾客。
尝有死罪亡命者来过，客卿逃匿不令人知。
外若讷而内沈敏。
援甚奇之，以为将相器，故以客卿字焉。
援卒后，客卿亦夭没。
论曰：马援腾声三辅，遨游二帝，及定节立谋，以干时主，将怀负鼎之愿，盖为千载之遇焉。
然其戒人之祸，智矣，而不能自免于谗隙。
岂功名之际，理固然乎？
夫利不在身，以之谋事则智；虑不私己，以之断义必厉。
诚能回观物之智而为反身之察，若施之于人则能恕，自鉴其情亦明矣。
translation: 
What is worrying is that all the princes and princes in the country have grown up, and the rule that princes and princes are not allowed to have private friends with guests has not been established. If you have too many guests, you will commit a serious crime. You must be vigilant and cautious.
When Empress Guo died, someone wrote a letter, thinking that Wang Su and others were members of the family that were to be punished, and the guests would cause trouble because of the incident, which might lead to disasters like Guan Gao and Ren Zhang's assassination of His Majesty.
The emperor was angry and ordered the counties and counties to arrest the guests named Wang. They affected each other and thousands of people died.
Lu Zhong was also involved in disaster. Before he died, he sighed and said: General Ma is such a god!
In the early years of Yongping, Ma Yuan's daughter was made queen. Xianzong painted images of the famous ministers and generals of the Guangwu period and listed them on Yuntai. Because of the empress, Ma Yuan is missing from the image.
Liu Cang, King of Dongping, looked at the picture and said to the emperor: Why not draw a portrait of General Fubo?
The emperor smiled but said nothing.
In the 17th year of Yongping, Mrs. Ma Yuan passed away, and the earth was gathered as a grave, trees were planted as markers, and an ancestral hall was built.
In the second year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Suzong sent Wugan Zhonglang General Chijie to add Cejie, and Ma Yuan was posthumously granted the title of Marquis Zhongcheng.
Four sons: Ma Liao, Ma Fang, Ma Guang, and Ma Keqing.
Ma Keqing was smart at a young age and was six years old. He was able to take care of the public and elders and entertain guests independently.
A desperado who had committed a capital crime once came to see him, but the guest hid himself so that no one would know about him.
On the outside, he appears to be inarticulate, but on the inside he is calm and alert.
Ma Yuan admired him very much and thought he was a good candidate for a general, so he named him Ke Qing.
After Ma Yuan's death, Ke Qing also died young.
The historian commented: Ma Yuanteng became famous among the three assistants, dealt with the second emperor, and finally made plans to assist the emperor. With the desire to serve the country, he made military exploits. This was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
However, it is very wise for horses to help and warn against human disasters. But he was not immune to slander.
Is this the rule when it comes to fame?
Since self-interest does not concern oneself, it is wise to do things for others; if one considers things not personal, one must be harsh in judging justice.
If you can truly look back at the wisdom of things and reflect on yourself, you will be able to forgive others and have self-knowledge.


