Chunk 0: 
original: 
侯景侯景，字万景，朔方人，或云雁门人。
少而不羁，见惮乡里。
及长，骁勇有膂力，善骑射。
以选为北镇戍兵，稍立功效。
魏孝昌元年，有怀朔镇兵鲜于修礼，于定州作乱，攻没郡县；又有柔玄镇兵吐斤洛周，率其党与，复寇幽、冀，与修礼相合，众十余万。
后修礼见杀，部下溃散，怀朔镇将葛荣因收集之，攻杀吐斤洛周，尽有其众，谓之 葛贼 。
四年，魏明帝殂，其后胡氏临朝，天柱将军尔硃荣自晋阳入杀胡氏，并诛其亲属。
景始以私众见荣，荣甚奇景，即委以军事。
会葛贼南逼，荣自讨，命景先驱，至河内，击，大破之，生擒葛荣，以功擢为定州刺史、大行台，封濮阳郡公。
景自是威名遂著。
顷之，齐神武帝为魏相，又入洛诛尔硃氏，景复以众降之，仍为神武所用。
景性残忍酷虐，驭军严整；然破掠所得财宝，皆班赐将士，故咸为之用，所向多捷。
总揽兵权，与神武相亚。
魏以为司徒、南道行台，拥众十万，专制河南。
及神武疾笃，谓子澄曰： 侯景狡猾多计，反覆难知，我死后，必不为汝用。
乃为书召景。
景知之，虑及于祸，太清元年，乃遣其行台郎中丁和来上表请降曰：
translation: 
Hou Jing, whose courtesy name was Wanjing, was from Shuofang. Some people say he was from Yanmen.
When he was young, he behaved wildly and his fellow villagers were afraid of him.
When he reached adulthood, he was vigorous and strong, and was good at horseback riding and archery.
Therefore, he was selected as a garrison in Beizhen and gradually made meritorious service in the army.
In the first year of Wei Xiaochang, Xianyu Xiuli, a soldier from Huaishuo town, rebelled in Dingzhou and captured the county. At the same time, Tujin Luozhou, a soldier from Rouxuan town, led his party to invade Youzhou and Jizhou. They joined forces with Xianyu Xiuli, totaling more than 100,000 people.
Later, Xianyu Xiuli was killed by Yuan Hongye, and his men were scattered. Ge Rong, the general of Huaishuo Town, took the opportunity to gather Xianyu Xiuli's scattered soldiers, attacked and killed Tujinluozhou, and annexed all Tujinluozhou's troops. People called him "Ge Thief".
In the fourth year of Xiaochang, Emperor Wei Ming died, and Empress Dowager Hu came to rule. Tianzhu General Er Zhurong raised troops from Jinyang and entered Luoyang, killing Empress Hu and Hu's relatives.
Hou Jing initially brought his army to see Er Zhurong. Er Zhurong thought that Hou Jing had a genius and immediately appointed him as a general to lead the troops.
When they were dispatched, Ge Rong's bandits marched south to Luoyang. Er Zhurong went to conquer it in person. He ordered Hou Jing to be the vanguard and led his army to Hanoi to attack Ge Rong. He defeated Jiang's army and captured Ge Rong alive. Because of his great achievements, Hou Jing was promoted to the governor of Dingzhou, Daxingtai, and was granted the title of Duke of Puyang.
Hou Jing became famous from then on.
Soon, Emperor Shenwu of Qi became the prime minister of Wei. He led his army into Luoyang and killed the Zhu family. Hou Jing led his army to surrender to Gao Huan and was appointed by Emperor Shenwu.
Hou Jing was cruel and tyrannical, and controlled the army strictly. However, all the treasures he plundered from the enemy were distributed to the soldiers, so the soldiers were happy to serve him and often won battles.
General Hou Jing holds military power, which is equal to that of Emperor Shenwu.
Wei appointed him as Situ and Nandaoxingtai, with an army of 100,000, and he controlled Henan alone.
Later, Emperor Shenwu fell ill. When he was seriously ill, he said to his son Gao Cheng: Hou Jing is cunning, scheming, and capricious. It is difficult to understand and control him. He will definitely not want to be used by you after I die.
So he wrote a letter to summon Hou Jing to come.
Hou Jing knew that he wanted to get rid of himself and was afraid of disaster, so in the first year of Taiqing, he sent his Xingtai doctor Ding He to ask Gaozu for surrender. The surrender letter said:


Chunk 1: 
original: 
臣闻股肱体合，则四海和平；上下猜贰，则封疆幅裂。
故周、邵同德，越常之贡来臻；飞、恶离心，诸侯所以背叛。
此盖成败之所由，古今如画一者也。
臣昔与魏丞相高王并肩戮力，共平灾衅，扶危戴主，匡弼社稷。
中兴以后，无役不从；天平及此，有事先出。
攻城每陷，野战必殄；筋力消于鞍甲，忠贞竭于寸心。
乘藉机运，位阶鼎辅；宜应誓死罄节，仰报时恩，陨首流肠，溘焉罔贰。
何言翰墨，一旦论此？
臣所恨义非死所，壮士弗为。臣不爱命，但恐死之无益耳。
而丞相既遭疾患，政出子澄。
澄天性险忌，触类猜嫉，谄谀迭进，共相构毁。
translation: 
I heard that if the important ministers of the country unite and cooperate like human limbs, the country will be unified and peaceful; if the top and bottom are jealous and have different intentions, the country will fall apart.
Therefore, his auxiliary ministers Zhou and Shao were of the same mind and had the same virtue, and the kingdoms of Yue Chang also came to pay tribute; while his ministers Fei and E were disloyal, and as a result all the princes betrayed him.
Creation is the reason for success and failure, which is the same truth from ancient times to modern times.
I used to fight side by side with the Prime Minister of Wei, King Gao, and we worked together to quell chaos, rescue people in danger, support the young master, assist in government affairs, and govern the country.
After the Zhongxing Year, there was not a single battle that I did not take part in. From the Tianping Year to the present, whenever there is a war, I am always the first to fight.
Every time we siege a city, we must capture it, and every time we fight in the field, we must annihilate the enemy. All my energy was spent on fighting and all my loyalty was exhausted.
Because of a good opportunity, my official rank was promoted to the position of Third Duke. I should swear to the death and repay the kindness of the court. Even if I am asked to die, I will not have second thoughts.
But why are we talking about surrender now?
Because what I regret is that dying for righteousness but not dying in the right place is something a strong man would never do. I dare not begrudge my life, but I am afraid that my death will be useless.
Now Prime Minister Gao Huan is seriously ill, and all government orders come from his son Chanyao.
People with direct luck are insidious and jealous by nature. They will be suspicious of everything, jealous of the virtuous, and flattering people will be recruited one after another, and they will frame and slander others.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
而部分未周，累信赐召；不顾社稷之安危，惟恐私门之不植。
甘言厚币，规灭忠梗。
其父若殒，将何赐容。
惧谗畏戮，拒而不返，遂观兵汝、颍，拥璟周、韩。
乃与豫州刺史高成、广州刺史郎椿、襄州刺史李密、兗州刺史邢子才、南兗州刺史石长宣、齐州刺史许季良、东豫州刺史丘元征、洛州刺史硃浑愿、扬州刺史乐恂、北荆州刺史梅季昌、北扬州刺史元神和等，皆河南牧伯，大州帅长，各阴结私图，克相影会，秣马潜戈，待时即发。
函谷以东，瑕丘以西，咸愿归诚圣朝，息肩有道，戮力同心，死无二志。
惟有青、徐数州，仅须折简，一驿走来，不劳经略。
且臣与高氏衅隙已成，临患赐征，前已不赴，纵其平复，终无合理。
黄河以南，臣之所职，易同反掌，附化不难。
群臣颙仰，听臣而唱。
translation: 
Because the arrangements were not yet complete, they sent me letters one after another, without caring about the safety of the country, for fear that private members would not be able to cultivate.
They used nice words and generous gifts to plan to eliminate loyal and upright ministers.
If Zhili's father dies, how can he allow me to stay?
I was afraid of slander and being punished, so I refused to obey the order and did not return to Luoyang. I led troops to wait and watch in the areas of Ruzhou, Yingzhou, Jingzhou and Han.
So he and Gao Cheng, the governor of Guangzhou, Li Mi, the governor of Xiangzhou, Xing Zicai, the governor of Yanzhou, Shi Changxuan, the governor of South Yanzhou, Xu Jiliang, the governor of Qizhou, Qiu Yuanzheng, the governor of East Yuzhou, Zhu Hunyuan, the governor of Luozhou, Le Xun, the governor of Yangzhou, and Northern Jingzhou The governor Mei Jichang, the governor of North Yangzhou Yuan Shenhe, and others contacted each other. They were all shepherds from Henan and commanders from Dazhou. They had secretly made friends with each other and rebelled against Wei in private. They were relying on each other to gather food and fodder in private, repair weapons, and wait for the opportunity to send troops immediately.
The areas east of Hangu Pass and west of Xiaqiu are all willing to submit to the Holy Dynasty so that the people can recuperate and live. To this end, they work together and swear to the death without any second thoughts.
As for Qing and Xu Shuzhou, they only need to write a letter and send an emissary to deliver the order, without having to worry about the planning and operation of the Holy Dynasty.
The estrangement and hatred between me and the Gao family has already formed. When the Prime Minister was seriously ill, he sent a letter to recruit him.
The south of the Yellow River is the area under my jurisdiction. It is not difficult to convert the Holy Dynasty to the same country.
All the officials admire me and obey my call.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
若齐、宋一平，徐事燕、赵。
伏惟陛下天网宏开，方同书轨，闻兹寸款，惟应霈然。
丁和既至，高祖召群臣廷议。尚书仆射谢举及百辟等议，皆云纳侯景非宜，高祖不从是议而纳景。
及齐神武卒，其子澄嗣，是为文襄帝。
高祖乃下诏封景河南王、大将军、使持节、董督河南南北诸军事、大行台，承制辄行，如邓禹故事，给鼓吹一部。
齐文襄遣大将军慕容绍宗围景于长社，景请西魏为援，西魏遣其五城王元庆等率兵救之，绍宗乃退。
景复请兵于司州刺史羊鸦仁，鸦仁遣长史邓鸿率兵至汝水，元庆军又夜遁。
于是据悬瓠、项城，求遣刺史以镇之。
诏以羊鸦仁为豫、司二州刺史，移镇悬瓠；西阳太守羊思建为殷州刺史，镇项城。
魏既新丧元帅，景又举河南内附，齐文襄虑景与西、南合从，方为己患，乃以书喻景曰：
translation: 
If the Qi and Song areas are pacified, we can slowly try to capture Yan and Fang.
I hope that your majesty will open the sky net and rule the world. I hope you can understand my sincere feelings and show me kindness.
When Ding He arrived, Gaozu summoned the ministers to discuss the matter in the court hall. The minister, Pushe Xieju, and all the officials said that it was not appropriate to recruit Hou Jing. Gaozu did not follow the opinions and decided to accept Hou Jing's surrender.
When Emperor Shenwu died, his son Gao Cheng succeeded him and became Emperor Wenxiang.
Emperor Gaozu then issued an edict to make Hou Jing the King of Henan, a general, an envoy to hold the festival, supervise the military affairs in the north and south of Henan, and the Daxingtai.
Qi Wenxiang sent General Murong Shaozong to surround Hou Jing in Changshe. Hou Jing asked the Western Wei Dynasty for help. The Western Wei Dynasty sent Wuxu Wang Douqing and others to lead troops to rescue him, and Murong Shaozong retreated.
Hou Jing asked Sizhou Governor Yangyaren for help. Yangyaren sent Chief Shi Denghong to lead troops to Rushui. Upon seeing this, the Yuanqing army fled at night.
So he occupied Xuanhu and Xiangcheng, and asked Emperor Gaozu to send governors to guard them.
Gaozu Shao ordered Yang Yaren to be the governor of Yuzhou and Sizhou and move his troops to guard Xuanhu; he ordered Yang Sijian, the prefect of Xiyang, to be the governor of Yinzhou and guard Xiangcheng.
Marshal Wei Gang died, and Yiliang took his parents and surrendered to the Chu Dynasty. Emperor Wenxiang of Qi was worried that Hou Jing's alliance with the West and South would become a disaster for himself, so he wrote to Hou Jing:


Chunk 4: 
original: 
盖闻位为大宝，守之未易；仁诚重任，终之实难。
或杀身成名，或去食存信；比性命于鸿毛，等节义于熊掌。
夫然者，举不失德，动无过事；进不见恶，退无谤言。
先王与司徒契阔夷险，孤子相于，偏所眷属，缱绻衿期，绸缪寤语，义贯终始，情存岁寒。
司徒自少及长，从微至著，共相成生，非无恩德。
既爵冠通侯，位标上等，门容驷马，室飨万钟，财利润于乡党，荣华被于亲戚。
意气相倾，人伦所重，感于知己，义在忘躯。
眷为国士者，乃立漆身之节；馈以壶飧者，便致扶轮之效。
若然尚不能已，况其重于此乎！
幸以故旧之义，欲持子孙相托，方为秦晋之匹，共成刘范之亲。
假使日往月来，时移世易，门无强廕，家有幼孤，犹加璧不遗，分宅相济，无忘先德，以恤后人。
况闻负杖行歌，便已狼顾犬噬，于名无所成，于义无所取，不蹈忠臣之迹，自陷叛人之地。
力不足以自强，势不足以自保；率乌合之众，为累卵之危。
translation: 
It is said that the throne is the most precious thing, and it is not easy to keep it; benevolence is a very important responsibility, and it is really difficult to always maintain it.
Some people are willing to sacrifice their lives to achieve a good reputation. Some people believe that integrity is more important than food. They regard their lives as lighter than a feather, and morality as precious as a bear's paw.
Because of this, their behavior will not violate morality, their actions will not be faulty, their advancement in officialdom will not be disliked by others, and their retirement will not be criticized behind their backs.
The late king and Situ have been friends in life and death, and have calmed down the turmoil. You and I have a deep friendship. We care about each other everywhere, understand each other in affection, and respect each other in conversation. Our interactions have always been benevolent and righteous. Our friendship is like pines and cypresses that do not wither in the severe cold.
You have grown from childhood to adulthood, and your status has grown from humble to prominent. It is not without kindness that I help you succeed and establish a career.
Now your title ranks first among the princes, your status ranks before the superiors, your courtyard can accommodate horses and carriages, your family enjoys a wealth of money, your wealth can be shared by people in the village, and your prosperity can even benefit your relatives and old friends.
The friendship of friends with similar interests and mutual admiration is a virtue that people respect and respect. To appreciate the kindness of a close friend, one must forget oneself in order to uphold integrity.
Those who are favored by a state official should have the ambition of Yu Rang to swallow charcoal and repay the favor resolutely; those who are gifted with a meal should repay the favor like a spirit wheel and die in return.
I still feel like I can't express my gratitude as much as I can, let alone receiving more favor from these people!
Thanks to the friendship of old friends, I want to entrust my children and grandchildren to each other. I just want our two families to be friends of Qin and Jin for generations, and become in-laws like Liu and Fan.
Even if the days and months go by, the times change, and there is no strong protection for the family, there is only a young orphan, the respect and etiquette of beautifying the family with brocade and bib will not be diminished, and they will divide the house and help like Qiu Chengzi, not forgetting the virtues of their ancestors, and helping the descendants of their friends.
Moreover, I heard that singing while walking while holding a stick is regarded as suspicious and counterproductive by others after retirement. It does not help to achieve fame and is not helpful to establish integrity. It will not lead to the path of a loyal minister, but will put oneself in the position of a traitor.
The strength cannot make oneself strong, the power is not enough to defend oneself, leading some rabble, is in a dangerous situation like a tired egg.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
西求救于黑泰，南请援于萧氏，以狐疑之心，为首鼠之事。
入秦则秦人不容，归吴则吴人不信。
当今相视，未见其可，不知终久，持此安归。
相推本心，必不应尔。
当是不逞之人，曲为口端之说，遂怀市虎之疑，乃致投杼之惑耳。
比来举止，事已可见，人相疑误，想自觉知，合门大小，并付司寇。
近者，聊命偏师，前驱致讨，南兗、扬州，应时克复。
即欲乘机，长驱悬瓠；属以炎暑，欲为后图。
方凭国灵，龚行天罚，器械精新，士马强盛。
内外感德，上下齐心，三令五申，可蹈汤火。
若使旗鼓相望，埃尘相接，势如沃雪，事等注萤。
translation: 
He went west to ask for help from Yuwen Heitai, and went south to ask for help from the Xiao family. He was hesitant and capricious.
You want to join Qin, but the people of Qin cannot tolerate you. You want to join Wu, but the people of Wu don't trust you.
Looking at it now, I don’t know how you can survive, what kind of results you will have in the future, and where you will end up if this continues.
I guess your original thoughts are definitely not like this.
I'm afraid it was those people who did evil things who distorted the facts and told nonsense. You believed the rumors and were suspicious and fearful, which led to such mistakes.
With the recent development of the situation, it has become obvious that people are suspicious of you. I think you have already realized it. Your whole family has been handed over to the Sikou in charge of the prison.
Recently, I temporarily ordered an army to serve as a vanguard for a crusade. Nanyan and Yangzhou were immediately captured.
I originally wanted to take advantage of this opportunity to march straight into Xuanhu, but because it was the hot summer season, I decided to make plans later.
Just relying on the power of the country, respectfully obeying the will of God and punishing the sinners, the weapons and equipment are well-equipped, and the soldiers and horses are strong.
People inside and outside the imperial court were grateful, and they worked together from top to bottom to give orders and warnings again and again. With one order, the whole army could go through fire and water.
If the army marches forward, the flags are connected, the drums are beating accordingly, the infantry and cavalry are united as one, and the force is huge, when encountering the enemy it will be like pouring boiling water on snow, or pouring water on fireflies, and they will be invincible and invincible.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
夫明者去危就安，智者转祸为福。
宁使我负人，不使人负我。
当开从善之门，决改先迷之路。
今刷心荡意，除嫌去恶，想犹致疑，未便见信。
若能卷甲来朝，垂丱还阙者，当授豫州刺史。
即使终君之世，所部文武更不追摄。
进得保其禄位，退则不丧功名。
君门眷属，可以无恙；宠妻爱子，亦送相还。
仍为通家，卒成亲好。
所不食言，有如皎日。
君既不能东封函谷，南向称孤，受制于人，威名顿尽。
空使兄弟子侄，足首异门，垂发戴白，同之涂炭，闻者酸鼻，见者寒心，矧伊骨肉，能无愧也？
translation: 
A wise person will turn away from danger and toward safety, and a wise person will turn disaster into blessing.
I would rather let me let others down than let others let me down.
You should open the door to good deeds and be determined to correct your previous misguided paths.
Now even if you cleanse your dirty mind and remove the resentment and hatred in your heart, you still won't give up your suspicion and you can't be believed immediately.
If you can roll up your armor, put away your weapons, and come back to submit to the imperial court, I will appoint you as the governor of Yuzhou.
Even after your death, your subordinates will no longer be reorganized.
If you advance, you can keep your rank and salary; if you retreat, you won't lose your fame.
Your relatives will not be harmed, and your beloved wife and children will be returned to you.
Our two families still have a good connection and can eventually become close friends.
I will never break my promise, and the sun can bear witness.
You can neither move eastward to occupy the area east of Hangu, nor can you go south to proclaim yourself emperor, but you are under the control of others, and your prestige has been completely lost.
In vain, brothers and nephews were separated from their heads and feet and died in other places. Children and the elderly suffered together. Those who heard it were sad and shed tears, and those who saw it felt chilled. Besides, these are your own flesh and blood. You are so unfeeling. Thinking of this, can you not feel ashamed?


Chunk 7: 
original: 
孤子今日不应方遣此书，但见蔡遵道云：司徒本无归西之心，深有悔祸之意，闻西兵将至，遣遵道向崤中参其多少；少则与其同力，多则更为其备。
又云：房长史在彼之日，司徒尝欲遣书启，将改过自新。已差李龙仁，垂欲发遣，闻房已远，遂复停发。
未知遵道此言为虚为实，但既有所闻，不容不相尽告。
吉凶之理，想自图之。
景报书曰：
盖闻立身扬名者，义也；在躬所宝者，生也。
苟事当其义，则节士不爱其躯；刑罚斯舛，则君子实重其命。
昔微子发狂而去殷，陈平怀智而背楚者，良有以也。
仆乡曲布衣，本乖艺用。
初逢天柱，赐忝帷幄之谋；晚遇永熙，委以干戈之任。
出身为国，绵历二纪，犯危履难，岂避风霜。
遂得躬被衮衣，口飧玉食，富贵当年，光荣身世。
translation: 
I shouldn't have sent you this letter today, just because I heard Cai Zundao say: You had no intention of returning to Xidian, and you felt deeply regretful. When you heard that the Western Wei soldiers were coming, you sent Cai Zundao to Guozhong to check their strength. If the number of troops is small, you will fight with them with all your strength. If the number of troops is large, make other arrangements.
Cai Zundao added: When Emperor Fang Kuang was staying with you, you once wanted to send someone to deliver me a memorial. He was about to change his ways. You had already sent Li Longren, and when you were about to set off to deliver it, you heard that the director of the house, Shi, had gone far away, so you stopped and did not send the messenger.
I don’t know whether what Cai Zundao said is true or false, but since I heard the news, I shouldn’t not tell you the above details.
I hope you will consider your choice of good or bad luck carefully.
Hou Jing wrote back:
I heard that people who want to establish their status and promote their reputation focus on righteousness; the most precious thing to themselves is life.
If the matter is related to righteousness, then a person with integrity will not begrudge his life; but if the punishment is wrong and chaotic, then he will value his life.
In the past, King Wei pretended to be crazy and left Bi, and Shunuo turned his back on Chu out of wisdom. It really makes sense!
I was born in a rural area and had no talent.
First I met Tianzhu General Ji Zhurong, who asked me to participate in the planning of military operations; later I met Emperor Yongxi and gave me the important task of commanding the army and commanding operations.
I have fought and dedicated my life for my country for twenty-four consecutive years. I have risked my life and been in difficult situations, but I have never been able to avoid the hardships.
To be able to wear the robes of the Three Lords and eat precious food, I was so rich and noble back then, and how glorious my life and family were.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
何为一旦举旌璟，援桴鼓，而北面相抗者，何哉？
实以畏惧危亡，恐招祸害，捐躯非义，身名两灭故耳。
何者？
往年之暮，尊王遘疾，神不祐善，祈祷莫瘳。
遂使嬖幸擅威权，阍寺肆诡惑，上下相猜，心腹离贰。
仆妻子在宅，无事见围；段康之谋，莫知所以；卢潜入军，未审何故。
翼翼小心，常怀战忄栗，有靦面目，宁不自疑。
及回师长社，希自陈状，简书未达，斧钺已临。
既旌旗相对，咫尺不远，飞书每奏，兼申鄙情；而群卒恃雄，眇然不顾，运戟推锋，专欲屠灭。
筑围堰水，三板仅存，举目相看，命悬晷刻，不忍死亡，出战城下。
禽兽恶死，人伦好生，送地拘秦，非乐为也。
但尊王平昔见与，比肩共奖帝室，虽形势参差，寒暑小异，丞相司徒，雁行而已。
translation: 
Once again, holding high the war flag and holding the war drum, he turns to fight against you. What is the reason for his dismissal?
It is really because he is afraid of danger and disaster, and he is unwilling to die in vain for an unjust thing and have his life and reputation destroyed.
Why do you say this?
At the end of last year, your father fell ill. Gods do not bless good people, prayers are useless, and his condition does not improve.
Therefore, the favored villains were allowed to monopolize the power, and the eunuchs in the palace played tricks at will, making the superiors and subordinates suspicious of each other and their confidants had different intentions.
My wife and children were at home, but they were besieged without incident. Duan Kang planned for unknown reasons, and Lu sneaked into the army for unknown reasons.
I was cautious, often frightened, very scared, and deeply ashamed. How could I not be suspicious.
When the army returned to Changsha, I hoped to state the details. The letter had not yet arrived, but the troops to suppress me had already arrived.
Later, the two armies faced each other at a very close distance. I repeatedly delivered memorials with flying arrows to explain my situation, but you relied on your own strength and ignored it. You launched an attack on me and wanted to massacre and destroy us.
You build a dam to block the water, and only three walls are left to flood my city wall. Observing the situation, my life is in danger. We can't bear to wait for death, so we have to fight to the death under the city.
All animals hate death, but people just want to live, hand over the land, and become prisoners themselves. People are not happy to do this.
It's just that your father dated me, and he and I worked side by side to assist the imperial family. Although the power status and treatment were slightly different, the relationship between the prime minister and Situ was like brothers.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
福禄官荣，自是天爵，劳而后受，理不相干，欲求吞炭，何其谬也！
然窃人之财，犹谓为盗，禄去公室，相为不取。
今魏德虽衰，天命未改，祈恩私第，何足关言。
赐示 不能东封函谷，受制于人 ，当似教仆贤祭仲而褒季氏。
无主之国，在礼未闻，动而不法，何以取训？
窃以分财养幼，事归令终，舍宅存孤，谁云隙末？
复言仆 众不足以自强，危如累卵 。
然纣有亿兆夷人，卒降十乱；桀之百克，终自无后。
颍川之战，即是殷监。
轻重由人，非鼎在德。
苟能忠信，虽弱必强。
殷忧启圣，处危何苦。
translation: 
Fortune and rank are honors bestowed by God and can only be accepted after meritorious service. My title has nothing to do with your father. It is ridiculous to ask me to repay your father's kindness by swallowing charcoal like Yu Rang did!
However, it is not advisable to call someone a thief if he steals other people's property and leaves the royal title to collect salary.
Although Wei is declining today, the destiny has not changed, but you want others to come to your private residence to pray for mercy. How can you say this?
Your letter said that you cannot go eastward and occupy Hangu, but be controlled by others. It seems that I was taught to respect Zheng Zhong, who defeated the king's army, and to praise the Ji family of Lu who expanded its power.
A country without a king has never heard of etiquette and law. How can it be regarded as a law if its actions violate etiquette and law?
I believe that if you share your wealth to support others' young children, and give up your home to save others' orphans, things will definitely end well. Who says friendship will never end?
You also said that my strength cannot make me strong, like stacked eggs, it is easy to fall and break, which is very dangerous.
However, King Zhou of Yin had hundreds of millions of people, but he finally surrendered to King Wu of Zhou who had ten capable ministers; Jie often won in battles, but in the end there was no good result.
The Battle of Yingchuan is a lesson that should be learned.
The size of the cauldron is determined by people. To rule the world, it does not depend on whether there is a cauldron, but on whether there is moral governance.
If you can keep your faith, even if you are weak, you will become strong.
Deep worry can lead to the emergence of wise kings. How painful it is to be in danger.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
况今梁道邕熙，招携以礼，被我兽文，縻之好爵。
方欲苑五岳而池四海，扫夷秽以拯黎元，东羁瓯越，西通汧、陇。
吴、楚剽劲，带甲千群；吴兵冀马，控弦十万。
兼仆所部义勇如林，奋义取威，不期而发，大风一振，枯干必摧，凝霜暂落，秋蒂自殒。
此而为弱，谁足称强！
又见诬两端，受疑二国。
斟酌物情，一何至此！
昔陈平背楚，归汉则王；百里出虞，入秦斯霸。
盖昏明由主，用舍在时，奉礼而行，神其庇也。
书称士马精新，克日齐举，夸张形胜，指期荡灭。
窃以寒飂白露，节候乃同；秋风扬尘，马首何异。
translation: 
What's more, today the Liang Kingdom is peaceful and prosperous. I welcome the surrendered people with courtesy, make me a general in charge of the army, and give me good titles.
I want to make the five mountains a royal garden, make the four seas a moat, sweep away the filth of the barbarians, save the people of the world, bind and control Ouyue to the east, and connect Yan and Long to the west.
Liang had brave and powerful soldiers from Wu and Chu, excellent weapons from Wu, and excellent horses from Ji. There were thousands of armored soldiers, and one hundred thousand soldiers with bows.
Together with our troops, there are many righteous soldiers like a forest, marching forward bravely for righteousness, destroying the enemy and boosting their power, and marching at the same time. As soon as the army arrives, they are devastated. The enemy is like the frozen frost and dew, which quickly melts, and like the mustard in autumn, it naturally withers away.
If a power like this is considered weak, then who can be considered strong?
You also falsely accused me of being half-hearted, which caused suspicion from both countries.
How come you are so confused when you think about things and people?
In the past, Chen Ping betrayed the King of Chu and joined the King of Han, and the King of Han unified the world; Baili Xi fled the State of Yu and entered the State of Qin, allowing the State of Qin to dominate the world.
Whether you are stupid or clever depends on the king, whether you appoint or discard them depends on the situation. If you act according to etiquette, the gods will protect you.
Your letter stated that the troops and horses are well-equipped, and they will be dispatched together at the appointed time to destroy us on the appointed day.
I think that the cold wind, frost, and dew appear at the same solar term, and the seasonal climate is the same. The autumn wind raises dust, which will not affect my ambitions.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
徒知北方之力争，未识西、南之合从，苟欲徇意于前途，不觉坑阱在其侧。
若云去危令归正朔，转祸以脱网罗，彼既嗤仆之愚迷，此亦笑君之晦昧。
今已引二邦，扬旌北讨，熊豹齐奋，克复中原，荆、襄、广、颍已属关右，项城、悬瓠亦奉南朝，幸自取之，何劳恩赐。
然权变不一，理有万途。
为君计者，莫若割地两和，二分鼎峙，燕、卫、晋、赵足相奉禄，齐、曹、宋、鲁悉归大梁，使仆得输力南朝，北敦姻好，束帛交行，戎车不动。
仆立当世之功，君卒祖祢之业，各保疆界，躬享岁时，百姓乂宁，四民安堵。
孰若驱农夫于陇亩，抗勍敌于三方，避干戈于首尾，当锋镝于心腹。
纵太公为将，不能获存，归之高明，何以克济。
translation: 
You only know that the people in the north compete with each other with strength, but do not understand the strategy of uniting the west and the south to defeat the enemy. If you want to follow your own temper and go your own way, then you will not be able to realize that the trap is around you.
As for saying that I escaped danger, returned to orthodoxy, turned disaster into blessing, and escaped the snare, you laugh at me for being stupid and confused, and I laugh at you for being ignorant.
Today we have united the two countries, raised the battle flag high, and marched north. Soldiers as brave as bears and tigers are working together to conquer the Central Plains. Jing, Xiang, Guang, and Ying have already belonged to Guanyou, and Xiangcheng and Xuanhu have also joined the Southern Dynasty. I got this by my own progress, and I don't need your gift.
However, there are many ways to change the situation, and there are many ways to turn danger into safety.
I'm planning for you. You might as well cede territory and negotiate peace, like a tripod that divides the world. Yan, Wei, Jin, and Zhao return to you, which is enough for you to enjoy. Qi, Cao, Song, and Lu all return to Daliang, so that I can do my best for the Southern Dynasty, urge and encourage the Northern Dynasty to be close and friendly, exchange gifts, communicate with each other, not use military vehicles, and cease wars.
I have made meritorious deeds for the present. You will maintain the inheritance of your ancestors for a long time, each of you will guard your own boundaries. You will enjoy peace and happiness all year round, the people will be in peace, and the scholars, farmers, industry and merchants will live and work in peace and contentment.
Which is better than driving the peasants to the battlefield to fight against three powerful enemies, even if they are able to avoid the attack and their subordinates are threatened?
Even if Jiang Taigong is allowed to be a general, he will not be able to win. Even if he is handed over to a wise person, he will not be able to win.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
复寻来书云，仆妻子悉拘司寇。
以之见要，庶其可及。
当是见疑褊心，未识大趣。
何者？
昔王陵附汉，母在不归；太上囚楚，乞羹自若。
矧伊妻子，而可介意。
脱谓诛之有益，欲止不能；杀之无损，徒复坑戮。
家累在君，何关仆也？
而遵道所传，颇亦非谬，但在缧绁，恐不备尽，故重陈辞，更论款曲。
所望良图，时惠报旨。
然昔与盟主，事等琴瑟，谗人间之，翻为仇敌。
抚弦搦矢，不觉伤怀，裂帛还书，知何能述。
十二月，景率军围谯城不下，退攻城父，拔之。
translation: 
I read your letter again and said that you have imprisoned my wife and children in prison.
You are trying to blackmail me with it, hoping that maybe I can return.
This is because you are suspicious of people, narrow-minded, and ignorant of the general situation.
Why do you say this?
In the past, Wang Ling belonged to the King of Han, but his mother was still in Chu, so he never looked back; Han Gaozu's father, the Supreme Emperor, was imprisoned by the King of Chu, and King Xi of Chu wanted to cook him, but Lian Zhidan begged King Chu Ling for a piece of the soup, and continued to deal with the King of Chu.
If you treat your parents like this, it's even less important to treat your wife and children.
If there is any benefit to killing my wife and children, it is impossible for you to stop. Killing them will do me no harm, it is just killing in vain.
The life and death of my wife's family is entirely up to you, and it has nothing to do with me.
What Zundao said is not false, but he was imprisoned. I am afraid that the details are not enough, so I restate it and express my diligent thoughts again.
I hope you will make good plans and reply to me in time to tell me your thoughts.
Your father and I used to work together like brothers. Later, a treacherous villain who loved to slander us alienated us and turned us into enemies.
When I stroked the bow string and held the arrow in my hand, I felt sad. When I cut off the silk and wrote a reply to you, I was so excited that I didn't know how to express it.
In December, Hou Jing led his army to besiege Qiaocheng, but failed to capture it, so he withdrew his troops to attack Chengfu and captured it.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
又遣其行台左丞王伟、左民郎中王则诣阙献策，求诸元子弟立为魏主，辅以北伐，许之。
诏遣太子舍人元贞为咸阳王，须渡江，许即伪位，乘舆副御以资给之。
齐文襄又遣慕容绍宗追景，景退入涡阳，马尚有数千匹，甲卒数万人，车万余辆，相持于涡北。
景军食尽，士卒并北人，不乐南渡，其将暴显等各率所部降于绍宗。
景军溃散，乃与腹心数骑自峡石济淮，稍收散卒，得马步八百人，奔寿春，监州韦黯纳之。
景启求贬削，优诏不许，仍以为豫州牧，本官如故。
景既据寿春，遂怀反叛，属城居民，悉召募为军士，辄停责市估及田租，百姓子女悉以配将卒。
translation: 
Hou Jing also sent his Xingtai Zuocheng Wang Wei and Zuo Minlangzhong Wangze to Gaozu to offer advice, advocating that a descendant of the Yuan family should be selected as the lord of Wei and help him ascend the throne through the Northern Expedition.
Emperor Gaozu agreed to the plan. An imperial edict was sent to send Prince Sheren Yuan Zhen to be the King of Xianyang, and wait for him to cross the river. After crossing the river, he was allowed to ascend the throne and proclaim himself emperor, and he was provided with an imperial chariot.
Emperor Wenxiang of Qi sent Murong Shaozong to pursue Hou Jing, but Hou Jing retreated into Guoyang. At this time, Hou Jingshang had thousands of horses, tens of thousands of soldiers, and more than 10,000 vehicles, and he and Murong Shaozong were in a stalemate in the north of Woyang.
Hou Jing ran out of food, and his soldiers were all from Jiangbei and were unwilling to cross south. His general Bao Xian and others led their men to surrender to Murong Shaozong.
When Hou Jing saw that his army was in disarray, he crossed the Huaihe River from Xia Shi with a few of his friends, and gradually gathered scattered troops. He got 800 horses and infantry, and fled to Shouchun. Wei An of Jianzhou accepted him.
In Shouchun, Hou Jing sent someone to petition Emperor Gaozu to demote his official position. Emperor Gaozu treated him favorably, but Xia Shao did not agree to his request for demotion and still appointed him as the shepherd of Yuzhou without changing his original official position.
After Hou Jing occupied Shouchun, he became rebellious. All the residents of Shouchun's city were recruited as sergeants, and he stopped collecting taxes and land rent without authorization. All the children of the people were assigned to the soldiers in the army.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
又启求锦万匹，为军人袍，领军硃异议以御府锦署止充颁赏远近，不容以供边城戎服，请送青布以给之。
景得布，悉用为袍衫，因尚青色。
又以台所给仗，多不能精，启请东冶锻工，欲更营造，敕并给之。
景自涡阳败后，多所征求，朝廷含弘，未尝拒绝。
先是，豫州刺史贞阳侯渊明督众军围彭城，兵败没于魏。至是，遣使还述魏人请追前好。
二年二月，高祖又与魏连和。
景闻之惧，驰启固谏，高祖不从。
尔后表疏跋扈，言辞不逊。
鄱阳王范镇合肥，及司州刺史羊鸦仁俱累启称景有异志，领军硃异曰： 侯景数百叛虏，何能为役？
并抑不奏闻，而逾加赏赐，所以奸谋益果。
translation: 
He also requested the emperor to provide tens of thousands of pieces of brocade to make military uniforms. Zhu Yi, the leader of the army, believed that the imperial brocade office was only used by the imperial court to award meritorious deeds nearby, and could not be used as military uniforms for border towns, so he asked for permission to provide him with green cloth.
Hou Jing got the cloth and used it all to make robes, so he admired the color cyan.
He also thought that the weapons supplied by Xingtai were not of high quality, and asked for the blacksmiths from Dongye to be rebuilt. Gaozu ordered that all be given to him.
After Hou Jing's defeat in Wuyang, he repeatedly requested funds from the imperial court, but the imperial court was generous and never refused.
Previously, the governor of Yuzhou, Zhenyang Marquis Xiao Yuanming, led all the troops to besiege Pengcheng. He was defeated and fell to Wei. During the period, he sent people back to Liang to state the Wei people's request to restore old friendship.
In February of the second year, Emperor Gaozu discussed peace with Wei again.
Hou Jing was very frightened when he found out, and hurriedly sent someone to send a seal to Gaozu to try his best to dissuade him. Gaozu did not listen to Hou Jing's dissuasion.
Later, Hou Jingshang's memorial was arrogant and his words were arrogant.
Xiao Fan, the king of Poyang, was guarding Hefei. He and Yang Yaren, the governor of Sizhou, repeatedly reported that Hou Jing had the intention to rebel. The leader Zhu Yi said: Hou Jing only has hundreds of rebels, how can he rebel.
They suppressed their official seals and did not report to Emperor Gaozu, but instead increased the rewards to Hou Jing, so Hou Jing's conspiracy to rebel became more and more exposed.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
又知临贺王正德怨望朝廷，密令要结，正德许为内启。
八月，景遂发兵反，攻马头、木栅，执太守刘神茂、戍主曹璆等。
于是诏郢州刺史鄱阳王范为南道都督，北徐州刺史封山侯正表为北道都督，司州刺史柳仲礼为西道都督，通直散骑常侍裴之高为东道都督，同讨景，济自历阳；又令开府仪同三司、丹阳尹、邵陵王纶持节，董督众军。
十月，景留其中军王显贵守寿春城，出军伪向合肥，遂袭谯州，助防董绍先开城降之，执刺史豊城侯泰。
高祖闻之，遣太子家令王质率兵三千巡江遏防。
景进攻历阳，历阳太守庄铁遣弟均率数百人夜斫景营，不克，均战没，铁又降之。
萧正德先遣大船数十艘，伪称载荻，实装济景。
景至京口，将渡，虑王质为梗。俄而质无故退，景闻之尚未信也，乃密遣觇之。谓使者曰： 质若审退，可折江东树枝为验。
觇人如言而返，景大喜曰： 吾事办矣。
translation: 
Hou Jing also knew that Linhe King Xiao Zhengde had grudges and complaints against the court, so he secretly sent people to make friends with him and collude with him. Xiao Zhengde agreed to be Hou Jing's internal adviser.
In August, Hou Jing sent troops to rebel, attacked Ma Tou and Muzha, and captured the prefect Liu Shenmao, the garrison leader Cao Zhu and others.
Emperor Gaozu then ordered the governor of Hezhou, Poyang King Xiao Fan, to be the governor of the South Road, the governor of North Xuzhou, Fengshan Hou Xiao Zhengbiao, to be the governor of the north, Sizhou governor Liu Zhongli to be the governor of the west, and Pei Zhigao, the regular servant of Tongzhi Sanqi, to be the governor of Shudao.
In October, Hou Jing left one of his troops, Wang Haogui, to guard Shouchun City, while he led his army to pretend to attack Hefei, but actually went to sneak attack Qiaozhou, and Qiaozhou assisted Dong Shao in opening the city and surrendering. The governor, Fengcheng Hou Xiaotai, was captured.
Emperor Gaozu learned of this and sent Wang Zhi, the prince's family commander, to lead three thousand troops to defend along the river.
Hou Jing attacked Liyang. Zhuang Tie, the prefect of Liyang, sent his brother Zhuang Jun to lead hundreds of people to attack Hou Jing's camp at night. They were unsuccessful. Zhuang Jun died in the battle and Zhuang Tie surrendered.
Xiao Zhengde first dispatched dozens of large ships, pretending to be carrying Diwei, but actually carrying Hou Jing across the river.
Hou Jing arrived at Jingkou and was about to cross the river. He was worried about Wang Zhi's obstruction. Soon, Wang Zhi retreated without any reason. Hou Jing still didn't believe it when he heard that he secretly sent someone to spy. He said to the sent person: If Wang Zhi really retreats, you can break the branches of the river as a signal.
The man who went to spy came back as he said. Hou Jing was overjoyed and said, "My mission was successful."


Chunk 16: 
original: 
乃自采石济，马数百匹，兵千人，京师不之觉。
景即分袭姑孰，执淮南太守文成侯宁，遂至慈湖。
于是诏以扬州刺史宣城王大器为都督城内诸军事，都官尚书羊侃为军师将军以副焉；南浦侯推守东府城，西豊公大春守石头城，轻车长史谢禧守白下。
既而景至硃雀航，萧正德先屯丹阳郡，至是，率所部与景合。
建康令庾信率兵千余人屯航北，见景至航，命彻航，始除一舶，遂弃军走南塘，游军复闭航渡景。
皇太子以所乘马授王质，配精兵三千，使援庾信。
质至领军府，与贼遇，未阵便奔走，景乘胜至阙下。
西豊公大春弃石头城走，景遣其仪同于子悦据之。
谢禧亦弃白下城走。
景于是百道攻城，持火炬烧大司马、东西华诸门。
城中仓卒，未有其备，乃凿门楼，下水沃火，久之方灭。
贼又斫东掖门将开，羊侃凿门扇，刺杀数人，贼乃退。
又登东宫墙，射城内，至夜，太宗募人出烧东宫，东宫台殿遂尽。
translation: 
Just crossing the river from Caishi, there were hundreds of horses and thousands of soldiers, but the people in the capital did not notice it.
Hou Jing immediately divided his troops to attack Gushu, captured Wencheng Hou Kukong, the prefect of Jinhu, and then arrived at Cisu.
Zhidan ordered Xiao Daqi, king of Xuancheng, the governor of Yangzhou in Shao, to be the governor of all the military forces in the city, and Yang Kan, the governor of the capital, to be the military advisor and general to assist him; Xiao Tui, the Marquis of Nanpu, guarded Dongfucheng, Xiao Dachun, Duke of Xifeng, guarded Stone City, and Xie Xi, the commander of light chariots, guarded Baixia.
Then Hou Jing arrived at Zhuquehang. Xiao Zhengde originally stationed troops in Dandanyang County. At this time, he led his troops to join Hou Jing.
Jiankang ordered Yu Xin to lead more than a thousand troops to the north of Zhuquehang. Seeing that Hou Jing's army had attacked Zhuquehang, Yu Xin ordered the removal of the pontoon bridge. After removing one ship, Yu Xin abandoned his army and fled to Nantang. The abandoned stragglers connected to the pontoon bridge and allowed Hou Jing to cross the river.
The crown prince gave the king a pledge of his horse, allotted him three thousand elite soldiers, and sent him to reinforce Yu Xin.
Wang Zhi went to the leader's mansion, met the rebels, and fled without fighting. Hou Jing took advantage of the victory and marched to the palace city.
Xiao Dachun, Duke of Xifeng, abandoned Stone City and fled. Hou Jing sent his Yi Tong and Yu Ziyue to occupy Stone City.
Xie Xi also gave up Baixia City and fled.
Hou Jing then attacked the city from many places and burned the gates of Da Sima and Dongxihua with torches.
The city responded in a hurry and without preparation, they dug open the gate and poured water down to extinguish the fire. It took a long time for the fire to go out.
The thieves then used knives and axes to chop Shuye's door open. When it was about to be chopped open, Yang Kan opened the door and assassinated several people before the thieves retreated.
The bandit soldiers climbed onto the wall of Shu Palace again and fired arrows into the palace city. In the evening, Taizong recruited people to go out of the city to burn Shu Palace, and all the towers and palaces in the East Palace were burned down.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
景又烧城西马厩、士林馆、太府寺。
明日，景又作木驴数百攻城，城上飞石掷之，所值皆碎破。
景苦攻不克，伤损甚多，乃止攻，筑长围以绝内外，启求诛中领军硃异、太子右卫率陆验、兼少府卿徐膋、制局监周石珍等。
城内亦射赏格出外： 有能斩景首，授以景位，并钱一亿万，布绢各万匹，女乐二部。
十一月，景立萧正德为帝，即伪位于仪贤堂，改年曰正平。
初，童谣有 正平 之言，故立号以应之。
景自为相国、天柱将军，正德以女妻之。
景又攻东府城，设百尺楼车，钩城堞尽落，城遂陷。
景使其仪同卢晖略率数千人，持长刀夹城门，悉驱城内文武裸身而出，贼交兵杀之，死者二千余人。
南浦侯推是日遇害。
景使正德子见理、仪同卢晖略守东府城。
景又于城东西各起一土山以临城内，城内亦作两山以应之，王公以下皆负土。
初，景至，便望克定京师，号令甚明，不犯百姓。既攻城不下，人心离阻，又恐援军总集，众必溃散，乃纵兵杀掠，交尸塞路，富室豪家，恣意裒剥，子女妻妾，悉入军营。
translation: 
Hou Jing also burned the West Horse Stable, Shilin Pavilion, and Taifu Temple.
The next day, Hou Jing made another wooden donkey to attack the city. The soldiers and civilians on the city threw flying stones down, and the wooden donkeys that were hit were broken into pieces.
Hou Jing was unable to attack the city and suffered many casualties, so he stopped attacking the city and built a long barrier wall to cut off traffic inside and outside the city. He also posted notices to recruit people to kill Sai Yu, the leader of the army, the prince's right guard led Duoyan, the minister of the Shaofu, and the supervisor of the production bureau, Zhou Shizhen.
Notices offering a reward were also sent out from the city: If anyone can cut off Hou Jing's head, he will be awarded Hou Jing's official position, and will be rewarded 100 million yuan, 10,000 pieces of cloth and silk, and two troupes of female musicians.
In November, Hou Jing established Xiao Zhengde as emperor. Xiao Zhengde assumed the pseudo-throne in Yixian Hall and changed his reign name to Zhengping.
At the beginning, there were words like "正平" in nursery rhymes, so the era name was established to fit in with it.
Hou Jing proclaimed himself Prime Minister and General Tianzhu, and Xiao Zhengde married his daughter to him.
Hou Jing attacked Dongfu City again, built a hundred-foot-high tower cart, and completely collapsed the city battlements, and Cambodian City was captured.
Hou Jing sent his Yi Tong Lu Hui Lue to lead thousands of people to guard both sides of the city gate with long swords. They drove all the civil and military officials in the city naked out of the city. The thieves killed them on both sides of the city gate. More than 2,000 people were killed.
Xiao Tui, the Marquis of Nanpu, was killed on this day.
Hou Jing then sent Lu Genshan's sons Xiao Jianli and Yi to guard Dongfu City with Lu Huilue.
Hou Jing also built an earth mountain on the east and west side of the palace city to monitor the city. He also built two earth mountains inside the city to deal with the earth mountains outside the city. He ordered everyone below the prince to carry the earth mountain on their backs.
At the beginning, Hou Jingjun arrived at the city, expecting to capture the capital in one fell swoop. The order was very strict and the people were not allowed to be invaded. After the siege failed, the people were scattered and depressed. He was also afraid that reinforcements would arrive and his army would collapse, so he allowed the soldiers to kill and plunder. The roads were blocked with corpses. Some wealthy families were arbitrarily robbed and extorted, and their children, wives, and concubines were all taken into the military camps.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
及筑土山，不限贵贱，昼夜不息，乱加殴棰，疲羸者因杀之以填山，号哭之声，响动天地。
百姓不敢藏隐，并出从之，旬日之间，众至数万。
景仪同范桃棒密遣使送款乞降，会事泄见杀。
至是，邵陵王纶率西豊公大春、新涂将军永安侯确、超武将军南安乡侯骏、前谯州刺史赵伯超、武州刺史萧弄璋、步兵校尉尹思合等，马步三万发自京口，直据钟山。
景党大骇，具船舟咸欲逃散，分遣万余人距纶，纶击大破之，斩首千余级。
旦日，景复陈兵覆舟山北，纶亦列阵以待之。
景不进，相持。
会日暮，景引军还，南安侯骏率数十骑挑之，景回军与战，骏退。
时赵伯超陈于玄武湖北，见骏急，不赴，乃率军前走，众军因乱，遂败绩。
纶奔京口。
贼尽获辎重器甲，斩首数百级，生俘千余人，获西豊公大春、纶司马庄丘惠达、直阁将军胡子约、广陵令霍俊等，来送城下徇之，逼云 已擒邵陵王 ，俊独云 王小小失利，已全军还京口，城中但坚守，援军寻至 。
贼以刀殴之，俊言辞颜色如旧，景义而释之。
是日，鄱阳世子嗣、裴之高至后渚，结营于蔡洲。
景分军屯南岸。
十二月，景造诸攻具及飞楼、橦车、登城车、登堞车、阶道车、火车，并高数丈，一车至二十轮，陈于阙前，百道攻城并用焉。
translation: 
When it came time to build a mountain of earth, no matter how high or low they were, they would work day and night. The sergeants would beat them with wooden sticks, and the weak ones would be killed to fill up the mountain. The sound of wailing shook the heaven and the earth.
The common people did not dare to hide at home, so they all fled to follow. Within ten days, tens of thousands of people gathered.
Hou Jing's Yi Tong Fan Taobang secretly sent a letter to request surrender, but he was killed when the incident was revealed.
By this time, Shaoling King Xiao Lun led Xifeng Gong Xiao Dachun, Xingan Gong Xiao Dacheng, Yong'an Hou Xiao Que, Chaowu General Nan'an Township Hou Xiaojun, former Qiaozhou Governor Zhao Bochao, Wuzhou Governor Xiao Nongzhang, infantry captain Yin Sihe, etc., with 30,000 horses and infantry, starting from Jingkou, the army marched straight to occupy Zhongshan.
Hou Jing's party members were very panicked and prepared their boats to escape. Hou Jing sent more than 10,000 men to resist Shaoling King Xiao Lun. Xiao Lun defeated Hou Jing's army and beheaded more than a thousand people.
The next day, Hou Jing deployed troops in the north of Fuzhou Mountain, and Xiao Lun also formed a formation to fight against Hou Jing.
Hou Jing stood still and held a stalemate with Xiao Lun.
When it got dark, Hou Jing led his army to retreat. Nan'an Hou Xiaojun led Fu Shiqi to challenge Hou Jing. Hou Jing returned to the army to fight with him, and Xiao Jun retreated.
At this time, Tang Bochao was stationed in Xuanwu Hubei. Seeing Xiao Jun's emergency, he not only did not go to reinforce him, but instead led his army to flee. The army collapsed and the whole army was defeated.
Xiao Lun fled to Jingkou.
The bandit army seized all the heavy weapons of Xiao Lun's army, beheaded hundreds of people, and captured more than a thousand people alive. They captured Xifeng Duke Xiao Dachun, Xiao Lun's Sima Zhuang Qiu Huida, Zhihe General Hu Yue, Guangling Ling Huo Jun and others. They were all sent to the city to show off to the public, forcing them to say that they had captured King Shaoling. Huo Jun alone said that King Shaoling only suffered a small defeat. The entire army has returned to Jingkou. As long as we hold on to the city, reinforcements will arrive soon.
The thieves beat him with knives, but his expression remained unchanged. Hou Jing thought he was loyal and released him.
On that day, Xiao Si and Pei Zhigao, the princes of Prince Poyang, arrived at Houzhu and set up camp at Caizhou.
Hou Jing divided his troops and stationed them on the south bank.
In December, Hou Jing built various siege equipment as well as flying towers, wooden carriages, city climbing carriages, battlement carriages, step carriages, and trains. They were all several feet high, and one carriage had as many as twenty wheels. They were all displayed in front of the imperial city, and they were used in many places to attack the city at the same time.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
以火车焚城东南隅大楼，贼因火势以攻城，城上纵火，悉焚其攻具，贼乃退。
又筑土山以逼城，城内作地道以引其土山，贼又不能立，焚其攻具，还入于栅。
材官将军宋嶷降贼，因为立计，引玄武湖水灌台城，城外水起数尺，阙前御街并为洪波矣。
又烧南岸民居营寺，莫不咸尽。
司州刺史柳仲礼、衡州刺史韦粲、南陵太守陈文彻、宣猛将军李孝钦等，皆来赴援。
鄱阳世子嗣、裴之高又济江。
仲礼营硃雀航南，裴之高营南苑，韦粲营青塘，陈文彻、李孝钦屯丹阳郡，鄱阳世子嗣营小航南，并缘淮造栅。
及晓，景方觉，乃登禅灵寺门楼望之，见韦粲营垒未合，先渡兵击之。
粲拒战败绩，景斩粲首徇于城下。
柳仲礼闻粲败，不遑贯甲，与数十骑驰赴之，遇贼交战，斩首数百，投水死者千余人。
仲礼深入，马陷泥，亦被重创。
自是贼不敢济岸。
邵陵王纶与临成公大连等自东道集于南岸，荆州刺史湘东王绎遣世子方等、兼司马吴晔、天门太守樊文皎下赴京师，营于湘子岸前，高州刺史李迁仕、前司州刺史羊鸦仁又率兵继至。
既而鄱阳世子嗣、永安侯确、羊鸦仁、李迁仕、樊文皎率众渡淮，攻贼东府城前栅，破之，遂结营于青溪水东。
translation: 
They also used a train to burn the building in the southeast corner of the city. The rebels took advantage of the fire to attack the city. The defenders on the city set fire to the lower part of the city and burned all the attacking tools below the city, and then the rebels retreated.
The rebel soldiers also built a mountain of earth under the city, hoping to use it to approach the city wall. The defenders in the city dug tunnels and destroyed the earth mountain. Unable to gain a foothold, the rebel soldiers burned their attacking tools and retreated into the barracks.
Caiguan General Song Yi surrendered to the rebels. He planned for the rebels to divert water from Xuanwu Lake to flood the city. The water outside the city rose several feet high, and the imperial street in front of the palace was a vast ocean.
The bandits set fire to the south bank again, and all the people's houses and the barracks and government buildings were burned down.
Liu Zhongli, the governor of Sizhou, Wei Can, the governor of Hengzhou, Chen Wenche, the governor of Nanling, and Li Xiaoqin, the general of Xuanmeng, all came to reinforce.
Xiao Si and Pei Zhigao, the princes of Prince Poyang, also led their troops across the river.
Liu Zhongli camped in Zhuquehangnan, Pei Zhigao camped in Nanyuan, Wei Can camped in Qingtang, Chen Wenche and Li Xiaoqin garrisoned in Danyang County, Poyang Prince Lu Yi camped in Erqinnan, and built a fence along Zhuzhicheng.
At dawn, Hou Jing found out, so he climbed up to the gate of Chanling Temple and looked out. Seeing that Wei Can's military camp had not yet been built, he crossed the water to attack him.
Wei Can was defeated, and Hou Jing beheaded Wei Can in front of the city in public display.
When Liu Zhongli heard that Wei Can's army was defeated, he didn't have time to put on his armor, so he took Fu Shiqi and went to reinforce him. When he met the bandits, he killed hundreds of them, and more than a thousand of them threw themselves into the water.
Liu Zhongli went deep into the enemy's army, and his horse got stuck in the mire and was seriously injured.
After this battle, the bandits did not dare to cross the water and land again.
Shaoling King Xiao Lun and Lincheng Gong Xiao Dalian gathered on the south bank from the east. Jingzhou Governor Xiangdong King Xiao Yi sent his son Xiao Fang and others, concurrent Sima Wu Ye, and Tianmen Prefect Fan Wenjiao to lead their troops down the river to the capital and camped in front of the Xiangzi Bank. Gaozhou Governor Li Qianshi and former Sizhou Governor Yang Yaren arrived one after another with their troops.
Then, Prince Xiao Si of Poyang, Marquis of Yong'an Xiao Que, Yang Yaren, Li Qianshi, and Fan Wenjiao led their troops across the Huaihe River, attacked the camp gate in front of the rebel army's Dongfu City, captured it, and set up camp east of the Qingxi River.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
景遣其仪同宋子仙顿南平王第，缘水西立栅相拒。
景食稍尽，至是米斛数十万人相食者十五六。
初，援兵至北岸，百姓扶老携幼以候王师，才得过淮，便竞剥掠，贼党有欲自拔者，闻之咸止。
贼之始至，城中才得固守，平荡之事，期望援军。既而四方云合，众号百万，连营相持，已月余日，城中疾疫，死者太半。
景自岁首以来乞和，朝廷未之许，至是事急乃听焉。
请割江右四州之地，并求宣城王大器出送，然后解围济江；仍许遣其仪同于子悦、左丞王伟入城为质。
translation: 
Hou Jing sent his Yi and Song Zixian to station themselves at the palace of King Nanping and build a camp along the west side of Qingxi River to resist.
Hou Jing gradually ran out of food. At this time, a handful of rice was worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, and five or six out of ten people resorted to cannibalism to satisfy their hunger.
At first, when the reinforcements arrived on the north bank, the people supported the old and young to wait for the king's army. Unexpectedly, these armies had just crossed the Huai River, and they robbed and plundered. Originally, some people in the thief party wanted to leave the thief army anyway, but after hearing this situation, they gave up the idea of ​​surrendering.
When the rebels first arrived, the soldiers and civilians in the city could only stand firm and hope that reinforcements would come to put down the rebellion. Now the reinforcements have gathered from all directions, claiming to be millions of people. The camps are connected and they have been confronting each other for more than a month. There is a plague in the city, and more than half of the people have died.
Hou Jing has been suing for peace since the beginning of the year, but the court has not agreed. It is only now that the situation is urgent that he has agreed to negotiate peace.
Hou Jing asked the imperial court to divide the four states on the right side of the Yangtze River and grant them to him, and asked Xiao Daqi, the king of Xuancheng, to come out of the city to see him off. Then he lifted the siege of the capital and withdrew his troops across the river. He then agreed to send his Yi Tong Yuyuan and Zuocheng Wang Wei into the city as hostages.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
中领军傅岐议以宣城王嫡嗣之重，不容许之。
乃请石城公大款出送，诏许焉。
遂于西华门外设坛，遣尚书仆射王克、兼侍中上甲乡侯韶、兼散骑常侍萧瑳与于子悦、王伟等，登坛共盟。
左卫将军柳津出西华门下，景出其栅门，与津遥相对，刑牲歃血。
南兗州刺史南康嗣王会理、前青、冀二州刺史湘潭侯退、西昌侯世子彧率众三万，至于马邛州。
景虑北军自白下而上，断其江路，请悉勒聚南岸，敕乃遣北军进江潭苑。
景启称： 永安侯、赵威方频隔栅见诟臣，云 天子自与汝盟，我终当逐汝 。
乞召入城，即当进发。
敕并召之。
景又启云： 西岸信至，高澄已得寿春、钟离，便无处安足。权借广陵、谯州，须征得寿春、钟离，即以奉还朝廷。
初，彭城刘邈说景曰： 大将军顿兵已久，攻城不拔，今援众云集，未易而破；如闻军粮不支一月，运漕路绝，野无所掠，婴儿掌上，信在于今。
未若乞和，全师而返，此计之上者。
景然其言，故请和。
后知援军号令不一，终无勤王之效；又闻城中死疾转多，必当有应之者。
景谋臣王伟又说曰： 王以人臣举兵背叛，围守宫阙，已盈十旬，逼辱妃主，凌秽宗庙，今日持此，何处容身？愿王且观其变。
景然之，乃抗表曰：
translation: 
Fu Qi, the leader of the army, believed that King Xuancheng was the direct son of the great ancestor and had a heavy responsibility, so he could not agree to the condition of sending Hou Jing as a pledge.
Hou Jing then asked Shicheng Gong Xiao Daqian to go out of the city to see him off, and Shao Ming agreed to this arrangement.
So they set up an earthen altar outside the Xihua Gate, and sent Wang Ke, the minister's servant, Xiao Shao, the Marquis of Zhongshanjia Township, and Xiao Shuyu, Yu Ziyue, Wang Wei and others to go up to the earthen altar to sign the alliance.
Liu Jin, the general of the left guard, came out of Xihua Gate, and Hou Jing came out of his gate. They faced Liu Jin away from each other, killing animals and taking blood to show their sincerity.
Xiao Huili, the successor king of Nankang, the governor of Southern Yanzhou, Xiao Tui, the Marquis of Xiangtan, the governor of the former Qingji Prefecture, and Xiao Tui, the prince of the Marquis of Xichang, led an army of 30,000 to Maqiong Prefecture.
Hou Jing was worried that the Northern Army would move up the river from Baixia and cut off his retreat along the river. He asked the imperial court to order them all to gather on the south bank. The emperor then ordered the Northern Army to be stationed in Jiangtanyuan.
Hou Jing reported that the Marquis of Yong'an and Zhao Weifang insulted me many times across the camp fence, saying, "You have made a covenant with the Emperor, and we will eventually expel you."
Ask them to be summoned into the city, and we will go on our own.
The imperial court summoned them both into the city at the same time.
Hou Jing went to the table again and said: Messengers from both sides of the Taiwan Strait have arrived and said that Gao Cheng has captured Shouchun and Zhongli. Now I have nowhere to live. I request that Guangling and Qiaozhou be temporarily loaned to me. As long as I recapture Shouchun and Zhongli, I will immediately return Guangling and Qiaozhou to the court.
At the beginning, Liu Miao of Pengcheng advised Hou Jing: The general's army has been stagnant for a long time and cannot attack the city. Now all the reinforcements have gathered together and it is not easy to defeat them. If we hear again that our army's food supply is less than one month, the food transportation channel is isolated, there is no food to be looted in the wild, and the situation of being treated like a child and playing with it will happen now.
It is better to ask for peace and return with the army intact. This is the best policy.
Hou Jing thought his opinion was right, so he asked for peace.
Later, I learned that the orders for reinforcements were not unified, and no one was willing to actually serve to rescue the imperial court. I also heard that the number of people dying of disease in the city was increasing day by day, so I thought that there must be someone who would respond to him.
Hou Jing's adviser Wang Wei added: "You have betrayed the imperial court as a human minister and besieged the capital for a hundred days. You have forced and insulted the princesses, bullied and ruined the ancestral temple. Now that you have reached this point, where can you stay? I hope you will wait and see how the situation changes."
Hou Jing agreed with him, so he reported to the court:


Chunk 22: 
original: 
臣闻 书不尽言，言不尽意 。
然则意非言不宣，言非笔不尽，臣所以含愤蓄积，不能默已者也。
窃惟陛下睿智在躬，多才多艺。
昔因世季，龙翔汉、沔，夷凶剪乱，克雪家怨，然后踵武前王，光宅江表，宪章文、武，祖述尧、舜。
兼属魏国凌迟，外无勍敌，故能西取华陵，北封淮、泗，结好高氏，輶轩相属，疆埸无虞，十有余载。
躬览万机，劬劳治道。
刊正周、孔之遗文，训释真如之秘奥。
享年长久，本枝盘石。
人君艺业，莫之与京。
臣所以踊跃一隅，望南风而叹息也，岂图名与实爽，闻见不同？
臣自委质策名，前后事迹，从来表奏，已具之矣。
translation: 
I have heard that letters cannot fully express what is said, and words cannot express the meaning in detail.
However, my heart cannot be expressed without words, and words cannot be expressed in detail without relying on pen and ink. This is the reason why I endure resentment and can no longer remain silent.
I secretly think that Your Majesty himself is wise, wise and versatile.
At the end of the previous dynasty, your family's foundation was established in Mo and Miang. You eradicated the murderers, suppressed the riots, and was able to clear up the family feud. Then you inherited the business of the previous king and occupied the Jiangdong area. You imitated the laws established by King Wen and King Wu of Zhou, and followed the traditions of Emperors Yao and Shun.
In addition, Wei was in decline and there were no strong enemies abroad, so he was able to march west to capture Hualing and north to occupy Huai and Si. He became friendly with the Gao family, had continuous exchanges with envoys, and had no trouble on the border for more than ten years.
His Majesty personally handles the complicated government affairs, works hard, and concentrates on running the country.
Your Majesty also corrected the documents sent by Duke Zhou and Zizi, and taught and explained the secret scriptures of Buddhism on the truth.
Your Majesty has lived in the country for a long time, and the branch is as solid as a rock.
No one can achieve more magnificent achievements than Your Majesty.
I sat in a corner and stood up for joy. I could only watch with deep emotion as the southern army failed to advance northward. Unexpectedly, it occurred to me that reputation is not consistent with reality, and what is heard is inconsistent with what is seen.
Ever since I took refuge and became a subject, all my past events and circumstances have been recorded.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
不胜愤懑，复为陛下陈之：
陛下与高氏通和，岁逾一纪，舟车往复，相望道路，必将分灾恤患，同休等戚；宁可纳臣一介之服，贪臣汝、颍之地，便绝好河北，檄詈高澄，聘使未归，陷之虎口，扬兵击鼓，侵逼彭、宋。
夫敌国相伐，闻丧则止，匹夫之交，托孤寄命。岂有万乘之主，见利忘义若此者哉！其失一也。
臣与高澄，既有仇憾，义不同国，归身有道。
陛下授以上将，任以专征，歌钟女乐，车服弓矢。
臣受命不辞，实思报效。
方欲挂旆嵩、华，悬旌冀、赵，刘夷荡涤，一匡宇内；陛下朝服济江，告成东岳，使大梁与轩黄等盛，臣与伊、吕比功，垂裕后昆，流名竹帛，此实生平之志也。
而陛下欲分其功，不能赐任，使臣击河北，欲自举徐方，遣庸懦之贞阳，任骄贪之胡、赵，裁见旗鼓，鸟散鱼溃，慕容绍宗乘胜席卷，涡阳诸镇靡不弃甲。
疾雷不及掩耳，散地不可固全，使臣狼狈失据，妻子为戮，斯实陛下负臣之深。
其失二也。
韦黯之守寿阳，众无一旅，慕容凶锐，欲饮马长江，非臣退保淮南，其势未之可测。既而逃遁，边境获宁，令臣作牧此州，以为蕃捍。
方欲收合余烬，劳来安集，励兵秣马，克申后战，封韩山之尸，雪涡阳之耻。
陛下丧其精魄，无复守气，便信贞阳谬启，复请通和。
translation: 
The anger and sorrow in my heart cannot be relieved, so I once again state to Your Majesty:
Your Majesty and the Gao family have been in friendly contact for more than a century. Envoys and ships come and go in an endless stream. The two countries must share worries, help each other, and share weal and woe. How could your Majesty accept the surrender of Na and I to lead one side and covet our Ru and Ying's land? So he broke off friendship with Hebei and spread proclamations to scold Gao Cheng. If the envoys who reconciled did not return, they were trapped in the tiger's mouth. You raised your troops and marched north. The invasion forced Peng and Song.
When hostile countries attack each other, when they hear that the other party is mourning, they should stop the war and make friends among the common people to support each other. How can a king of a country with thousands of chariots be like you who forgets his duty in the face of profit? This is your first mistake.
Gao Cheng and I have developed a grudge. Morally speaking, he and I cannot live in the same country, so I surrender myself to the virtuous king.
Your Majesty appointed me as a general, granted me the power to send out troops on my own initiative, and gave me singing and singing instruments, singing girls and dancing girls, carriages and horses, costumes, and bows and arrows.
I accepted your appointment without any excuse. I am truly grateful and want to try my best to repay Your Majesty.
I am about to march into Song and Hua, capture Ji and Dan, destroy the enemy, sweep away the filth, and unify the world. Your Majesty, wearing a formal dress, crossed the Yangtze River and reported to Dongyue that the world is stable. The great success has made Daliang as prosperous as the Yellow Emperor Xuanyuan. I have made the same meritorious service as Yi Yin and Lu Wang, leaving my achievements to future generations and leaving a name in the annals of history. It is really my life ambition.
But His Majesty wants others to share my achievements and cannot give me the important task of attacking Hebei. His Majesty wants to capture Xu Fang himself. He sent the mediocre and cowardly Marquis Zhenyang, and appointed the arrogant and greedy Hu Sengyou and Zhao Bochao. As soon as they encountered the enemy, they fled like a flock of crows and were defeated like fish. Murong Neng took advantage of the victory and swept in. All the towns across the house abandoned their armor and fled.
Things happened so fast, like thunder that had no time to cover my ears, and I was unable to hold on in the defeated situation, which made me embarrassed and without support, and my wife and children were killed. This is really a deep disappointment to me.
This is your second mistake.
Wei An was guarding Shouyang and did not have enough troops. Murong was fierce and powerful. He wanted to attack the Yangtze River to drink horses. If I had not retreated and defended Huainan, the situation would have been unimaginable. After that, Murong Shaozong fled and the border was peaceful. His Majesty ordered me to be the governor of this state to serve as a barrier to defend the country.
I am trying to recruit the remnant soldiers, comfort and appease the people who have surrendered, make full preparations for future battles, gather soil to build graves for the corpses in the whole mountain, and wash away the shame of Guoyang's defeat.
His Majesty, however, was dejected and no longer had the spirit to defend the war. He believed the false announcement of Marquis Zhenyang and requested peace with the North.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
臣频陈执，疑闭不听。
翻覆若此，童子犹且羞之；况在人君，二三其德。
其失三也。
夫畏懦逗留，军有常法。
子玉小败，见诛于楚；王恢失律，受戮于汉。
贞阳精甲数万，器械山积，慕容轻兵，众无百乘，不能拒抗，身受囚执。
以帝之犹子，而面缚敌庭，实宜绝其属籍，以衅征鼓。
陛下曾无追责，怜其苟存，欲以微臣，规相贸易。
人君之法，当如是哉？
其失四也。
悬瓠大籓，古称汝、颍。
臣举州内附，羊鸦仁固不肯入；既入之后，无故弃之，陛下曾无嫌责，使还居北司。
鸦仁弃之，既不为罪，臣得之不以为功。
其失五也。
translation: 
I have spoken out against it many times in a row, but you are suspicious of being closed-minded and unwilling to listen.
A child would feel ashamed if a person is capricious like this; not to mention that as a king, how can he be half-hearted and unsure?
This is your third mistake.
Fear stops you from moving forward, and the military has fixed laws and disciplines to punish you.
Ziyu was defeated and killed by the king of Chu; Wang Hui disobeyed the military order and was killed by the king of Han.
The Marquis of Zhenyang led tens of thousands of elite troops, and the equipment and equipment were piled up like mountains. Murong Shaozong only had lightly armed soldiers and less than a hundred military vehicles. The Marquis of Zhenyang was unable to resist him and was captured by Murong Shaozong.
As the emperor's nephew, the Marquis of Zhenyang was captured alive by the enemy. This should indeed deprive him of his name and use his blood to sacrifice the war drum.
However, Your Majesty did not pursue or blame him at all, but took pity on him and let him live an ignoble existence. He even wanted to exchange me for him.
Should the king’s laws be like this?
This is your fourth mistake.
Xuanhu is a Dafan town, and was called Ru and Ying in ancient times.
I led the state to surrender to the imperial court, but Yang Yaren refused to enter. After your Majesty ordered him to garrison, he abandoned his duties without any reason. Your Majesty did not blame him and allowed him to return to serve in the Northern Division.
Yang Yaren abandoned the important town, but your majesty did not punish him. I gained the important town, and your majesty did not take it as my credit.
This is your fifth mistake.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
臣涡阳退衄，非战之罪，实由陛下君臣相与见误。
乃还寿春，曾无悔色，祗奉朝廷，掩恶扬善。
鸦仁自知弃州，切齿叹恨，内怀惭惧，遂启臣欲反。
欲反当有形迹，何所征验？
诬陷顿尔，陛下曾无辩究，默而信纳。
岂有诬人莫大之罪，而可并肩事主者乎？
其失六也。
赵伯超拔自无能，任居方伯，惟渔猎百姓，多蓄士马，非欲为国立功，直是自为富贵，行货权幸，徼买声名。
硃异之徒，积受金贝，遂使咸称胡、赵，比昔关、张，诬掩天听，谓为真实。
韩山之役，女妓自随，裁闻敌鼓，与妾俱逝，不待贞阳，故只轮莫返。
论其此罪，应诛九族；而纳贿中人，还处州任。
伯超无罪，臣功何论？
translation: 
My defeat in Guoyang was not a mistake in my battle, but was caused by the suspicion of His Majesty and his ministers.
After I returned to painting, I never showed any regrets. I just respected the court and did not talk about other people's faults, but only promoted their good points.
Yang Yaren himself knew that it was a great sin to abandon the land of a state. He gnashed his teeth and sighed with shame and fear, so he reported to His Majesty that he wanted to rebel.
If you want to react, you should have evidence. What can be done to prove it?
So he falsely accused me. Your Majesty did not distinguish right from wrong and actually believed his false accusation against me.
How can one falsely accuse someone of treason and yet serve the monarch side by side with him?
This is your sixth mistake.
Zhao Bochao was promoted from the incompetent people, and he was actually in the position of Fang Bo. He only knew how to exploit the people and raised many soldiers. He did not want to make meritorious service to the country, but just to gain his personal wealth.
He bribed powerful people favored by Your Majesty and bought their reputation. Zhu Yi sent a group of people to receive a lot of money, so he asked everyone to call Zhao Bochao and Hu Sengyou both Qu and Zhao, and compare them with Guan Yu and Zhang Fei in the past. This deceived Your Majesty into thinking that he was telling the truth.
During the Battle of Hanshan, Tsai Bochao followed him with singing and dancing prostitutes. Only when he heard the enemy's war drums did he escape with his concubine, not waiting for Marquis Zhenyang. As a result, the entire army was wiped out, and not a single soldier was able to return.
It was judged that he should be punished for such a crime; but he bribed the powerful people around His Majesty and still served as governor after returning to the court.
Tsai Bochao is not guilty, so what credit can I claim?


Chunk 26: 
original: 
赏罚无章，何以为国？
其失七也。
臣御下素严，无所侵物，关市征税，咸悉停原，寿阳之民，颇怀优复。
裴之悌等助戍在彼，惮臣检制，遂无故遁归；又启臣欲反。
陛下不责违命离局，方受其浸润之谮。
处臣如此，使何地自安？
其失八也。
臣虽才谢古人，实颇更事，抚民率众，自幼至长，少来运动，多无遗策。
及归身有道，罄竭忠规，每有陈奏，恒被抑遏。
硃异专断军旅，周石珍总尸兵杖，陆验、徐膋典司谷帛，皆明言求货，非令不行。
境外虚实，定计于舍人之省；举将出师，责奏于主者之命。
臣无贿于中，故恒被抑折。其失九也。
translation: 
If there are no laws and regulations on rewards and punishments, how can we govern the country well?
This is your seventh mistake.
I have always been very strict in managing my subordinates. My troops have never plundered people's property. I have stopped exempting all kinds of taxes. The people of Shouyang are grateful for the preferential treatment and exemption from military service.
Pei Zhiti was waiting there to assist in the defense. He was afraid of my strict restraint, so he fled back to the capital without any reason. He also went to the imperial court to report that I wanted to rebel.
Not only did His Majesty not blame them for disobeying orders and leaving their posts without permission, but he was influenced by their slander and believed their words.
Your Majesty treats me like this, so that I can feel at ease somewhere.
This is your eighth mistake.
Although my talents are not as good as those of the ancients, I have indeed experienced many things in the world, appeasing the people and commanding soldiers. I have been running business since I was young, and I rarely make miscalculations.
When I surrendered to the Liang Dynasty, I tried my best to plan for His Majesty, but every time I reported to His Majesty, I was suppressed.
Zhu Yi made military decisions alone, Zhou Shizhen was in charge of weapons, Lu Xian and Xu Fan were in charge of food and cloth. They all explicitly asked for bribes and had to give them money.
Overseas situations were all decided in Shiren's official office; when generals were appointed to deploy troops, they were ordered to issue orders.
Because I did not bribe them, I was always suppressed and belittled by them. This is your ninth mistake.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
鄱阳之镇合肥，与臣邻接。臣推以皇枝，每相祗敬；而嗣王庸怯，虚见备御，臣有使命，必加弹射，或声言臣反，或启臣纤介。
招携当须以礼，忠烈何以堪于此哉！
其失十也。
其余条目，不可具陈。
进退惟谷，频有表疏。
言直辞强，有忤龙鳞，遂发严诏，便见讨袭。
重华纯孝，犹逃凶父之杖；赵盾忠贤，不讨杀君之贼。
臣何亲何罪，而能坐受歼夷？
韩信雄桀，亡项霸汉，末为女子所烹，方悔蒯通之说。
臣每览书传，心常笑之。
岂容遵彼覆车，而快陛下佞臣之手？
translation: 
The King of Poyang guards Hefei, which is adjacent to our territory. I respect him as the royal nephew and always treat him with great respect. However, the Prince of Poyang who succeeds is timid and often guards against me for no reason. Whenever I have orders, he will definitely accuse me. Sometimes he declares that I will rebel, and sometimes he writes to report my minor faults.
Those who come to seek refuge should be treated with courtesy. How can a loyal and loyal person endure such treatment?
This is your tenth mistake.
Other items cannot be stated one by one.
My situation is now very difficult, and I am in a dilemma. I have gone to the table many times to start.
My upright and resolute words offended His Majesty, so you issued a stern edict to attack me.
Yu Shun was an honest and filial son who managed to escape the blows of his vicious father; Zhao Dun was a loyal and virtuous minister who refused to attack the traitors who killed the emperor.
What kind of family ties do I have and what faults do I have to be punished by being killed?
Han Zhi is a hero. He betrayed King Xiang and became the king of Han to achieve hegemony. Later, he was cooked by Empress Lu, only to regret that he had not listened to Mian Sui's advice.
Every time I read history books and biographies, I often laugh at Han Xin's stupid behavior.
How could I allow myself to repeat the old path of Han Xin's downfall and let His Majesty's treacherous ministers applaud me?


Chunk 28: 
original: 
是以兴晋阳之甲，乱长江而直济，愿得升赤墀，践文石，口陈枉直，指画臧否，诛君侧之恶臣，清国朝之粃政，然后还守籓翰，以保忠节，实臣之至愿也。
三月朔旦，城内以景违盟，举烽鼓噪，于是羊鸦仁、柳敬礼、鄱阳世子嗣进军于东府城北。
栅垒未立，为景将宋子仙所袭，败绩，赴淮死者数千人。
贼送首级于阙下。
景又遣于子悦至，更请和。
遣御史中丞沈浚至景所，景无去意，浚固责之。
景大怒，即决石阙前水，百道攻城，昼夜不息，城遂陷。
于是悉卤掠乘舆服玩、后宫嫔妾，收王侯朝士送永福省，撤二宫侍卫。
translation: 
Therefore, I mobilized Jinyang's troops and crossed the Yangtze River to the capital, hoping to enter the emperor's palace, step on the steps of the palace, state the rights and wrongs to His Majesty face to face, point out the good and the bad, kill the traitors around His Majesty, and clean up the country's bad politics. Then I returned to the fiefdom to guard the feudal town to preserve my loyalty and integrity. This is indeed my greatest wish.
On the morning of the first day of March, the city was very angry because Hou Jing had violated the covenant. They lit beacon fires and beat drums and shouted. Then Yang Yaren, Liu Jingli, and Poyang Crown Prince Xiao Si marched to the north of Dongfu City.
Before the camp was established, it was attacked and defeated by Hou Jing's general Song Zixian. Thousands of people were driven into the palace and died.
The thieves sent the head to the imperial city.
Hou Jing sent Yu Ziyue to ask for peace again.
The imperial censor Zhongcheng Shen Jun was sent to Hou Jing's camp. Seeing that Hou Jing had no intention of withdrawing his troops, Shen Jun severely condemned him.
Hou Jing was furious and immediately dug the water channel in front of the stone gate of the palace and attacked the city from many places day and night. The palace city was captured.
After the palace city was captured, the bandits plundered the emperor's vehicles, treasures, jewels, and concubines in the harem. They captured the princes and court officials and sent them to Vinh Phuc Province, and removed the guards from the second palace.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
使王伟守武德殿，于子悦屯太极东堂，矫诏大赦天下，自为大都督、督中外诸军事、录尚书，其侍中、使持节、大丞相、王如故。
初，城中积尸不暇埋瘗，又有已死而未敛，或将死而未绝，景悉聚而烧之，臭气闻十余里。
尚书外兵郎鲍正疾笃，贼曳出焚之，宛转火中，久而方绝。
于是援兵并散。
景矫诏曰： 日者，奸臣擅命，几危社稷，赖丞相英发，入辅朕躬，征镇牧守可各复本任。
降萧正德为侍中、大司马，百官皆复其职。
景遣董绍先率兵袭广陵，南兗州刺史南康嗣王会理以城降之。
景以绍先为南兗州刺史。
初，北兗州刺史定襄侯祗与湘潭侯退，及前潼州刺史郭凤同起兵，将赴援。
至是，凤谋以淮阴应景，祗等力不能制，并奔于魏。
景以萧弄璋为北兗州刺史，州民发兵拒之，景遣厢公丘子英、直阁将军羊海率众赴援，海斩子英，率其军降于魏，魏遂据其淮阴。
景又遣仪同于子悦、张大黑率兵入吴，吴郡太守袁君正迎降。
子悦等既至，破掠吴中，多自调发，逼掠子女，毒虐百姓，吴人莫不怨愤，于是各立城栅拒守。
是月，景移屯西州，遣仪同任约为南道行台，镇姑孰。
五月，高祖崩于文德殿。
初，台城既陷，景先遣王伟、陈庆入谒高祖，高祖曰： 景今安在？
translation: 
Wang Wei was asked to guard Wu Shanyi, and Wang Wangtan garrisoned Su Dongtang in the fortress. Crocodile falsely conveyed the emperor's order and granted amnesty to the world. He named himself the Grand Governor, overseeing all military affairs at home and abroad, and recorded the Secretariat. The previous official positions of Shizhong, Envoy Chijie, Grand Prime Minister, and King of Henan remained the same.
At first, there was no time to bury the corpses piled up in the city. Now there were many corpses that had not been buried, and some were dying but not dying. Hou Jing gathered all these corpses and burned them in fire. The stench could be smelled more than ten miles away.
Bao Zheng, the minister's foreign soldier, was seriously ill. The bandits dragged him out and threw him into the fire. He rolled in the fire and died after a long time.
At that time, the reinforcements were dispersed.
Hou Jing falsely conveyed Shao's order and said: In the past, treacherous ministers issued orders without authorization and almost endangered the country. Thanks to the prime minister's bravery and wisdom, he joined the court to assist me. Now the soldiers, pastors and guards can return to their respective posts.
Xiao Zhengde was demoted to the rank of Shizhong and Da Sima, and all officials were restored to their original positions.
Hou Jing sent Dong Shao to lead an army to attack Guangling. Xiao Huili, the governor of Nanyanzhou and the successor king of Nankang, led the city to surrender to Hou Jing.
Hou Jing appointed Dong Shaoxian as the governor of southern Yanzhou.
At the beginning, Xiao Zhi, Marquis of Dingxiang, the governor of Northern Yanzhou, and Xiao Tui, the Marquis of Xiangtan, and Guo Feng, the governor of former Tongzhou, raised troops at the same time to reinforce the capital and attack Hou Jing together.
Now that Guo Feng saw that Hou Jing was gaining power, he conspired to dedicate Huaiyin to Hou Jing. Xiao Zhi and others considered that their own troops could not stop Guo Feng, so they surrendered to Wei together.
Hou Jing appointed Xiao Nongdao as the governor of Northern Yanzhou. The people of Northern Yanzhou sent troops to resist him. Hou Jing sent Xiang Gong Qiu Ziying and Zhihe General Yang Hai to lead troops to reinforce Xiao Nongzhang. Yang Hai killed Qiu Ziying and led his army to surrender to Wei. Wei then occupied Huaiyin.
Hou Jing also sent Yi Tong, Yu Ziyue and Zhang Dahei to lead troops into Wu. Yuan Junzheng, the prefect of Wu County, came out to welcome and surrender.
After Yu Ziyue and others entered Wuzhong, they wantonly destroyed and looted, collected and transferred property everywhere without authorization, forced and kidnapped their children, and cruelly harmed the people. Everyone in Wu resented them, so they built city gates everywhere to resist and defend.
This month, Hou Jing moved his army to station in Xizhou and sent Yi Tongren to Xingtai, Nandao, to guard Gushu.
In May, Emperor Gaozu passed away in Wende Hall.
After the fall of Taicheng, Hou Jingxian sent Wang Wei and Chen Qing to meet Emperor Gaozu. Emperor Gaozu said: Where is Hou Jing now?


Chunk 30: 
original: 
卿可召来。
时高祖坐文德殿，景乃入朝，以甲士五百人自卫，带剑升殿。
拜讫，高祖问曰： 卿在戎日久，无乃为劳？
景默然。
又问： 卿何州人，而敢至此乎？
景又不能对，从者代对。
及出，谓厢公王僧贵曰： 吾常据鞍对敌，矢刃交下，而意气安缓，了无怖心。
今日见萧公，使人自慑，岂非天威难犯？
吾不可再见之。
高祖虽外迹已屈，而意犹忿愤，时有事奏闻，多所谴却。
景深敬惮，亦不敢逼。
景遣军人直殿省内，高祖问制局监周石珍曰： 是何物人？
对曰： 丞相。
高祖乃谬曰： 何物丞相？
对曰： 是侯丞相。
高祖怒曰： 是名景，何谓丞相！
是后，每所征求，多不称旨，至于御膳亦被裁抑，遂忧愤感疾而崩。
translation: 
Go and fetch him.
At that time, Emperor Gaozu was sitting in the Wende Hall. When Hou Jing entered the hall to worship, he brought 500 soldiers in armor to defend himself and went to the hall with swords.
After the obeisance, Emperor Gaozu asked: You have been in the army for a long time, maybe you are too tired?
Hou Jing couldn't answer silently.
Emperor Gaozu asked again: Which state are you from, and you dare to come to Qianbo?
Hou Jing was speechless again, so his entourage answered on his behalf.
After leaving the palace, Hou Jing said to Xiang Gong Wang Senggui: I often ride on a horse to fight with the enemy, with swords and arrows falling alternately, but I am calm and relaxed, without any fear.
When I saw Mr. Xiao today, I couldn't help but feel frightened. Could it be that the power of God is unstoppable?
I can't see him again.
Although Gaozu's actions were restricted, he was still very resentful in his heart and often condemned and denied what Hou Jing heard about.
Hou Jing was deeply in awe of Gaozu and did not dare to force him.
Hou Jing sent soldiers to be on duty in the palace province. Emperor Gaozu asked Zhou Shizhen, the supervisor of the production bureau: "Who sent them?"
He replied: It’s the Prime Minister.
Gao Dan pretended to be confused and said, "What Prime Minister?"
He replied: "It's Prime Minister Hou."
Emperor Gaozu said angrily: "It's the man named Hou Jing." Why call him prime minister!
From then on, Emperor Gaozu had many needs, but many of them were unsatisfactory. Even the food was cut off. Emperor Gaozu then became ill and died of anger.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
景乃密不发丧，权殡于昭阳殿，自外文武咸莫知之。
二十余日，升梓宫于太极前殿，迎皇太子即皇帝位。
于是矫诏赦北人为奴婢者，冀收其力用焉。
又遣仪同来亮率兵攻宣城，宣城内史杨华诱亮斩之；景复遣其将李贤明讨华，华以郡降。
景遣仪同宋子仙等率众东次钱塘，新城戍主戴僧易据县拒之。
是月，景遣中军侯子鉴入吴军，收于子悦、张大黑，还京诛之。
时东扬州刺史临成公大连据州，吴兴太守张嵊据郡，自南陵以上，皆各据守。
景制命所行，惟吴郡以西、南陵以北而已。
六月，景以仪同郭元建为尚书仆射、北道行台、总江北诸军事，镇新秦。
郡人陆缉、戴文举等起兵万余人，杀景太守苏单于，推前淮南太守文成侯宁为主，以拒景。
宋子仙闻而击之，缉等弃城走。
景乃分吴郡海盐、胥浦二县为武原郡。
至是，景杀萧正德于永福省。封元罗为西秦王，元景龙为陈留王，诸元子弟封王者十余人。
translation: 
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, Hou Jingmi did not mourn, and the coffin was temporarily parked in Zhaoyang Hall. None of the civil and military officials inside and outside knew about the incident.
More than twenty days later, the coffin was carried to the front hall of Taiji to welcome the crown prince as emperor.
Hou Jing then pretended to issue an edict to pardon the Northerners who had been slaves. Trying to bribe these people for his use.
He also sent Yi Tong to Lailiang and led his troops to attack Xuancheng. Yang Hua, the internal historian in Xuancheng, was beheaded by Yang Liang. Hou Jing sent his general Li Xianming to attack Yang Hua, and Yang Hua led the county to surrender.
Hou Jing sent Yi, Song Zixian and others to lead the army eastward and stationed in Qiantang. The new city garrison leader Dai Sengyi seized the county to resist him.
This month, Hou Jing sent the Chinese army Hou Zijian into the Wu army, arrested Yu Ziyue and Zhang Dahei, and returned to the capital to kill them.
At that time, Lincheng Gong Xiao Dalian, the governor of Dongyangzhou, was guarding the state, and Zhang Sheng, the prefect of Wuxing, was guarding the county. From Nanling onwards, they were all guarding each other.
The only areas where Hou Jing's order could be implemented were west of Wu County and north of Nanling.
In June, Hou Jing appointed Guo Yuanjian as Shangshu Pushe, Beidao Xingtai, and general of all military forces in the north of the Yangtze River to guard the New Qin Dynasty.
County residents Lu Ji, Dai Wenju and others raised more than 10,000 troops and killed Su Shanyu, the governor sent by Hou Jing. They elected the former Huainan governor Wencheng Hou Xiaoning as the leader of the alliance to resist Hou Jing.
After Song Zixian learned about it, he led his army to attack them, and Lu Ji and others abandoned the city and fled.
Hou Jing then separated Wujun Haiyan and Xupu counties to form Wuyuan County.
At this time, Hou Jing killed Xiao Zhengde in Yongfu Province. Yuan Luo was granted the title of King of Western Qin, Yuan Jinglong was granted the title of King of Chenliu, and more than ten of his descendants were granted the title of king.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
以柳敬礼为使持节、大都督，隶大丞相，参戎事。
景遣其中军侯子鉴监行台刘神茂等军东讨，破吴兴，执太守张嵊父子送京师，景并杀之。
景以宋子仙为司徒，任约为领军将军，尔硃季伯、叱罗子通、彭俊、董绍先、张化仁、于庆、鲁伯和、纥奚斤、史安和、时灵护、刘归义，并为开府仪同三司。
是月，鄱阳嗣王范率兵次栅口，江州刺史寻阳王大心要之西上。
景出顿姑孰，范将裴之悌、夏侯威生以众降景。
十一月，宋子仙攻钱塘，戴僧易降。
景以钱塘为临江郡，富阳为富春郡。
又王伟、元罗并为仪同三司。
十二月，宋子仙、赵伯超、刘神茂进攻会稽，东扬州刺史临成公大连弃城走，遣刘神茂追擒之。
景以裴之悌为使持节、平西将军、合州刺史，以夏侯威生为使持节、平北将军、南豫州刺史。
是月，百济使至，见城邑丘墟，于端门外号泣，行路见者莫不洒泪。
translation: 
He also used Running Salute as an envoy to hold the festival and the governor, subordinate to the prime minister, to participate in military affairs.
Hou Jing sent the Chinese army Hou Zijian, the supervisory station Liu Shenmao and others to lead an eastward crusade, defeated Wuxing, captured the prefect Zhang Sheng and his son, and sent them to the capital. Hou Jingji killed them together.
Hou Jing appointed Song Zixian as Situ and the leading general, including Zhu Jibo, Chiluo Zitong, Peng Jun, Dong Shaoxian, Zhang Huaren, Yu Qing, Lu Bohe, He Xijin, Shi Anhe, Shi Linghu, and Liu Guiyi, and he was also named the third division of Kaifu Yitong.
This month, Xiao Fan, the successor king of Poyang, led his troops to station at Zhakou. King Daxin of Xunyang, the governor of Jiangzhou, invited him to go west.
Hou Jing sent troops to garrison in Gushu, and Fan generals Pei Zhidi and Xiahou Weisheng led their troops to surrender to Hou Jing.
In November, Song Zixian attacked Qiantang and Dai Seng surrendered.
Hou Jing changed Qiantang to Linjiang County and Fuyang to Fuchun County.
Wang Wei and Yuan Luo were granted the title of "Yitong Sansi" at the same time.
In December, Song Zixian, Zhao Bochao and Liu Shenmao attacked Kuaiji. Xiao Dalian, Linchenggong, the governor of Dongyangzhou, abandoned the city and fled. Hou Jing sent Liu Shenmao to chase him and capture him.
Hou Jing appointed Pei Zhiti as his envoy Chijie, general Pingxi, and governor of Hezhou, and Xiahou Weisheng as his envoy Chijie, general Pingbei, and governor of South Yuzhou.
This month, Baekje's envoys arrived and saw that the capital city was in ruins. People were wailing outside the city, and everyone on the road shed tears when they saw it.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
景闻之大怒，送小庄严寺禁止，不听出入。
大宝元年正月，景矫诏自加班剑四十人，给前后部羽葆鼓吹，置左右长史、从事中郎四人。
前江都令祖皓起兵于广陵，斩景刺史董绍先，推前太子舍人萧勔为刺史；又结魏人为援，驰檄远近，将以讨景。
景闻之大惧，即日率侯子鉴等出自京口，水陆并集。
皓婴城拒守，景攻城，陷之。
景车裂皓以徇，城中无少长皆斩之。
以侯子鉴监南兗州事。
是月，景召宋子仙还京口。
四月，景以元思虔为东道行台，镇钱塘。
以侯子鉴为南兗州刺史。
文成侯宁于吴西乡起兵，旬日之间，众至一万，率以西上。
景厢公孟振、侯子荣击破之，斩宁，传首于景。
七月，景以秦郡为西兗州，阳平郡为北兗州。
translation: 
Hou Jing was furious when he heard about this, so he sent Baekje's envoys to Xiaozhuangyan Temple and locked them up, preventing them from entering or leaving.
In the first month of the first year of Dabao, Hou Jing pretended to have Shao's orders and added forty swordsmen to himself without permission. He also appointed himself a front and rear Yu Bao advocate, and also appointed himself a left and right chief minister and four ministers.
The former Jiangdu ordered Zu Hao to raise troops in Guangling, killed Dong Shao, the governor sent by Hou Jing, and elected Xiao Meng, the former prince's native, as the governor. He also contacted the Wei people as backup and used fast riding to publish proclamations to places far and near to denounce Hou Jing.
When Hou Jing heard the news, he was very frightened. On the same day, he led Hou Zijian and others to send troops from Saidan, and all the land, water and rain troops were mobilized.
Hou Jing refused to defend the city, but Hou Jing attacked the city and captured it.
Hou Jing split Zu Hao's chariot to show the public, and killed everyone in the city, old and young.
Hou Jing used the fort to monitor and supervise various affairs in Yanzhou in the south.
This month, Hou Jing summoned Song Zixian back to Jingkou.
In April, Hou Jing appointed Yuan Siqian as the host to guard Qiantang.
Hou Zijian was appointed as the governor of southern Yanzhou.
Xiao Ning, Marquis of Wencheng, raised an army in Wuxi Township. Within ten days, the number grew to 10,000, and he led his army to the west.
Hou Jing's princes Meng Zhen and Hou Zirong defeated him, beheaded Wencheng Hou Xiaoning and gave his head to Hou Jing.
In July, Hou Jing took Qin County as the western Yanzhou and Yangping County as the northern Yanzhou.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
任约、卢晖略攻晋熙郡，杀鄱阳世子嗣。
景以王伟为中书监。
任约进军袭江州，江州刺史寻阳王大心降之。
世祖时闻江州失守，遣卫军将军徐文盛率众军下武昌，拒约。
景又矫诏自进位为相国，封泰山等二十郡为汉王，入朝不趋，赞拜不名，剑履上殿，如萧何故事。
景以柳敬礼为护军将军，姜询义为相国左长史，徐洪为左司马，陆约为右长史，沈众为右司马。
是月，景率舟师上皖口。
十月，盗杀武林侯谘于广莫门。
谘常出入太宗卧内，景党不能平，故害之。
景又矫诏曰： 盖悬象在天，四时取则于辰头；群生育地，万物仰照于大明。
是以垂拱当扆，则八枿共辏；负图正位，则九域同归。
故乃云名水号之君，龙官人爵之后，莫不启符河、洛，封禅岱宗，奔走四夷，来朝万国。
逖听虞、夏，厥道弥新。爰及商、周，未之或改。
逮幽、厉不竞，戎马生郊；惠、怀失御，胡尘犯跸。
遂使豺狼肆毒，侵穴伊、瀍；猃狁孔炽，巢栖咸、洛。
自晋鼎东迁，多历年代，周原不复，岁实永久。
虽宋祖经略，中息远图，齐号和亲，空劳冠盖。
translation: 
Ren Yue and Lu Hui slightly attacked Jinxi County and killed Xiao Si, the eldest son of Prince Poyang.
Hou Jing appointed Wang Wei as the Supervisor of the Zhongshu.
Ren Yue marched to attack Jiangzhou, and the governor of Jiangzhou, Xunyang Wang Xiao Dazhi, surrendered to him.
At that time, Emperor Shizu heard that Jiangzhou had been lost and sent General Xu Wensheng of the Guards to lead all the troops to Wuchang to resist Ren Yue.
Hou Jing also falsely announced that he had been enthroned as prime minister, and granted the title of King of Han Dynasty to twenty counties including Mount Tai. He did not follow the rules when he entered the court, praised and worshiped without honoring his name, and went to the palace with swords and shoes, just like the courtesy enjoyed by Xiao He in the Han Dynasty.
Hou Jing appointed Liu Jingli as the general guarding the army, Jiang Xunyi as the left chief historian of the prime minister, Xu Hong as the left Sima, Lu Yue as the right chief historian, and Shen Zhong as the right Sima.
This month, Hou Jing led his navy back to Anhui.
In October, bandits killed Xiao Zhen, Marquis of Wulin, in Guangmomen.
Because Wulin Marquis Xiao Zhen often came in and out of Taizong's palace, Hou Jing's party members were confused, so they sent people to kill him.
Hou Jing also falsely passed on Taizong's edict and said: Heaven shows signs, and the four seasons obtain their laws from the stars; all living things are nurtured by the earth, and all things rely on the sun and the moon to shine.
Therefore, the emperor accepts the destiny and ascends to the throne of God, and governs the world without doing anything. The princes from all directions come to worship him, and the people of the nine states come to Quqing together.
Therefore, whether it is the Yellow Emperor who was named after the official title of Yun, or Fuxi who was named after the official title of dragon, there is no one who does not worship the water god in the Yellow River and Luoshui River, and pray for auspicious blessings.
I respectfully heard that in the Yu, Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, their decrees were updated day by day, but the great rituals of worshiping heaven and earth remained unchanged.
When King Zhou You and King Zhou Li came, their country was weak, so war broke out; King Zhou Hui and King Huai of Zhou lost their royal power, and the plastic people invaded on a large scale.
As a result, the jackals were rampant and violent, poisoning all living beings, and invaded Yi and Wo; the alkaline wolves were very rampant, occupying Xian and Luo.
Many years have passed since the Jin capital was moved, and the vast land in the Central Plains has not been recovered. It has been a long time.
Although Emperor Gaozu of the Song Dynasty planned the operation, he stopped the long-term planning midway; Qi Cheng said that he was in harmony with each other, but in vain the envoys had to work hard.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
我大梁膺符作帝，出震登皇。
浃珝归仁，绵区饮化。
开疆辟土，跨瀚海以扬镳；来庭入觐，等涂山而比辙。
玄龟出洛，白雉归豊。
鸟塞同文，胡天共轨。
不谓高澄跋扈，虔刘魏邦，扇动华夷，不供王职，遂乃狼顾北侵，马首南向。
值天厌昏伪，丑徒数尽，龙豹应期，风云会节。
相国汉王，上德英姿，盖惟天授；雄谟勇略，出自怀抱。
珠鱼表应，辰昴叶晖；剖析六韬，锱铢四履。
腾文豹变，凤集虬翔；奋翼来仪，负图而降。
爰初秉律，实先启行；奉兹庙算，克除獯丑。
直以鼎湖上征，六龙晏驾；干戈暂止，九伐未申。
而恶稔贯盈，元凶殒毙；弟洋继逆，续长乱阶。
异彼洋音，同兹荐食；偷窃伪号，心希举斧。
豊水君臣，奉图乞援；关河百姓，泣血请师。咸愿承奉国灵，思睹王化。
朕以寡昧，纂戎下武，庶拯尧黎，冀康禹迹。
且夫车服以庸，名因事著。
translation: 
I, Daliang, accepted the destiny and ascended the throne of God in the East.
The whole world surrendered to benevolence, and remote areas were influenced by it.
Expanding the territory of the country, his prestige spans the desert; coming to the court to meet the emperor's chariot is just like Dayu gathering the princes at Tushan.
Black turtles appeared in Luoshui, and white pheasants were brought from Fengdi.
The residents of the north of Saibei read the same letter as the Central Plains, and the barbarians of the northwest were on the same track as the Central Plains.
Unexpectedly, Gao Cheng was arrogant and tyrannical, robbed and killed Wei subjects, incited the Chinese barbarians, refused to hold official positions in the court, and greedily invaded north and attacked south.
At this time, God has abandoned the confused puppet dynasty, and the evil people have exhausted their strength. Heroes and heroes rise up in accordance with the times and meet the right circumstances.
The Prime Minister of the Han Dynasty has noble virtues and handsome appearance, which are given by heaven. Grand plans and courageous strategies all come from his mind.
The pearl fish came out at the right moment, and the Beidou and the Pleiades merged to shine together; he analyzed the six Taoists and learned the details of the four realms.
He is in a noble position, displaying his literary talents, phoenixes are flying, horned dragons are gathering; phoenixes are carrying the river on their backs, fluttering their wings and flying down.
When he took charge of the government decree, he set out first, followed the imperial court's decision, and took the lead in executing it himself, defeating and annihilating Maohuan.
Just because the dragon rose over the lake, the Lord died; the war was temporarily suspended, and the crusade against rebellion could not continue.
However, the culprit of all the crimes was killed himself. His younger brother Gao Yang succeeded to the throne and rebelled again, which became the root cause of the chaos.
Refuse to have friendly relations with me. He tried to make me surrender and annex the Liang Kingdom; he stole the title of emperor and tried to threaten me with force.
The monarchs and ministers of Fengshui held maps and begged for rescue, and the people of Guan and He wept and begged the king's troops to go on an expedition. They all hoped to carry out the imperial decree and see the king's virtuous administration.
I am ignorant and talented, inheriting the inheritance of my ancestors and following in the footsteps of my ancestors, hoping to save the people and bring peace to the land of Kyushu.
Besides, the carriage and formal attire are used to commend the minister's meritorious service, and the meritorious service is used to determine the minister's reputation.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
周师克殷，鹰扬创自尚父；汉征戎狄，明友实始度辽。
况乃神规睿算，眇乎难测，大功懋绩，事绝言象，安可以习彼常名，保兹守固。
相国可加宇宙大将军、都督六合诸军事，余悉如故。
以诏文呈太宗，太宗惊曰： 将军乃有宇宙之号乎！
齐遣其将辛术围阳平，景行台郭元建率兵赴援，术退。
徐文盛入资矶，任约率水军逆战，文盛大破之，仍进军大举口。
时景屯于皖口，京师虚弱，南康王会理及北兗州司马成钦等将袭之。
建安侯贲知其谋，以告景，景遣收会理与其弟祈阳侯通理、柳敬礼、成钦等，并害之。
十二月，景矫诏封贲为竟陵王，赏发南康之谋也。
是月，张彪起义于会稽，攻破上虞，景太守蔡台乐讨之，不能禁。
translation: 
Zhou's army defeated Yin, and Jiang Shangfu led his generals to achieve great achievements; he chose a dynasty to conquer the Rong and Di, and Fan Mingyou's meritorious service was established as the general who conquered the Liao Dynasty.
What's more, it's a wonderful strategy, a brilliant plan, profound and difficult to predict. The Prime Minister has great merits and deeds, and his achievements are unparalleled in the stars. How can he continue to use the usual name unchanged?
The Prime Minister should be granted the titles of General of the Universe and Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Liuhe, while all other positions remain unchanged.
Hou Jing presented Shao Wen to Taizong. Taizong was surprised and said: Does the general have such a name as the universe?
Qi sent its general Xin Shu to besiege Yangping. Hou Jingxingtai and Guo Yuanjian led troops to reinforce, but Xin Shu retreated.
When Xu Wensheng entered Beiji, Ren Yue led the navy to fight. Xu Wensheng defeated him severely, so he marched with great force.
At this time, Hou Jing's army was stationed in Wankou, and the capital was empty. Xiao Huili, the king of Nankang, and Sima Chengqin of Northern Yanzhou planned to attack the capital.
Xiao Bi, the Marquis of Jian'an, knew about their plan and reported it to Hou Jing. Hou Jing sent people to arrest Xiao Huili and his younger brothers, Xiao Tongli, Marquis of Qiyang, Liu Jingli, Cheng Qin and others, and killed them all.
In December, Hou Jing falsely announced that Xiao Bi, the feudal lord of An, was appointed King of Jingling and rewarded him for exposing the conspiracy of King Nankang.
This month, Zhang Biao revolted in Kuaiji and conquered Shangyu. Cai Taile, the governor of Hou Jing, went to attack but failed to stop it.


Chunk 37: 
original: 
至是，彪又破诸暨、永兴等诸县，景遣仪同田迁、赵伯超、谢答仁等东伐彪。
二年正月，彪遣别将寇钱塘、富春，田迁进军与战，破之。
景以王克为太师，宋子仙为太保，元罗为太傅，郭元建为太尉，张化仁为司徒，任约为司空，于庆为太子太师，时灵护为太子太保，纥奚斤为太子太傅，王伟为尚书左仆射，索超世为尚书右仆射。
北兗州刺史萧邕谋降魏，事泄，景诛之。
是月，世祖遣巴州刺史王珣等率众下武昌助徐文盛。
任约以西台益兵，告急于景。
三月，景自率众二万，西上援约。
四月，景次西阳，徐文盛率水军邀战，大破之。
景访知郢州无备，兵少，又遣宋子仙率轻骑三百袭陷之，执刺史方诸、行事鲍泉，尽获武昌军人家口。
徐文盛等闻之，大溃，奔归江陵，景乘胜西上。
初，世祖遣领军王僧辩率众东下代徐文盛，军次巴陵，会景至，僧辩因坚壁拒之。
景设长围，筑土山，昼夜攻击，不克。
军中疾疫，死伤太半。
世祖遣平北将军胡僧祐率兵二千人救巴陵，景闻，遣任约以精卒数千逆击僧祐，僧祐与居士陆法和退据赤亭以待之，约至与战，大破之，生擒约。
景闻之，夜遁。
以丁和为郢州刺史，留宋子仙、时灵护等助和守，以张化仁、阎洪庆守鲁山城，景还京师。
王僧辩乃率众东下，次汉口，攻鲁山及郢城，皆陷之。
自是众军所至皆捷。
景乃废太宗，幽于永福省。
translation: 
When he was dispatched, Zhang Biao also captured Zhuji, Yongxing and other counties. Hou Jing sent Yi Tongtian Qian, Zhao Bochao, Xie Daren and others to lead the army eastward to attack Zhang Biao.
In the first month of the second year, Zhang Biao sent his generals to attack Qiantang and Fuchun. Tian Qian advanced to fight with his generals and defeated them.
Hou Jing appointed Wang Ke as the Taishi, Song Zixian as the Taibao, Yuan Luo as the Taifu, Guo Yuanjian as the Taiwei, Zhang Huaren as the Situ, Ren Yue as Sikong, Gong Qing as the Prince's Taishi, Shi Linghu as the Prince's Taibao, He Xingqiu as the Prince's Taifu, Wang Wei as Shangshu Zuopushe, and Sai Chaoshi as Shangshu Youpushe.
Xiao Yong, the governor of Northern Yanzhou, planned to surrender to Wei. When the incident was revealed, Hou Jing had him executed.
This month, Shizu sent Wang Sengbian, the governor of Bazhou, to lead his troops to Wudan to assist Xu Wensheng.
When Dian Baling increased his army, he asked Hou Jing to send troops for reinforcements.
In March, Hou Jing personally led an army of 20,000 troops westward to aid Ren Yue.
In April, Hou Jing garrisoned troops in Xiyang. Xu Wensheng led his navy to challenge him and was severely defeated.
Hou Jingfang learned that Yingzhou was unprepared and had few soldiers, so he sent Song Zixian and three hundred light cavalry to attack Yingzhou, captured Yingzhou, captured the governor Xiao Fangzhu, the general Bao Quan, and captured all the families of Wuchang soldiers.
When Xu Wensheng and others found out, the army was in great disarray and rushed back to Jiangling. Hou Jing took advantage of his victory and headed west up the river.
At first, Shizu sent Wang Sengbian to lead his army eastward to replace Xu Wensheng. The army was stationed in Baling. When Hou Jing and his army arrived, Wang Sengbian built fortifications to resist.
Hou Jing built a long fence and earthen hills, and attacked day and night, but he could not capture it.
There was an epidemic of disease in the army, and more than half of the people were killed or injured.
Shizu sent Pingbei General Hu Senyou with 2,000 troops to rescue Baling. After Hou Jing knew about it, he sent Ren Yue and Fu Qian's elite troops to meet Hu Senyou. Hu Senyou, layman Lu Fa and the retreating army occupied Chiting and waited for Ren Yue to arrive. They fought fiercely with him, defeated Ren Yue and captured him alive.
When Hou Jing learned that Ren Yue was defeated, he fled overnight.
Hou Jing appointed Ding He as the governor of Yingzhou, leaving Song Zixian, Shi Linghu and others to assist Ding He in guarding Yingzhou. He also ordered Zhang Huaren and Jian Hongqing to guard Lushan City. Hou Jing himself returned to the capital.
Wang Sengbian then led his army eastward, stationed in Hankou, attacked Lushan and Yingcheng, and captured them both.
From then on, Wang Sengbian led his troops to win battles wherever they went.
After Hou Jing was defeated and returned to the capital, he deposed Taizong and imprisoned him in Yongfu Province.


Chunk 38: 
original: 
作诏草成，逼太宗写之，至 先皇念神器之重，思社稷之固 ，歔欷呜咽，不能自止。
是日，景迎豫章王栋即皇帝位，升太极前殿，大赦天下，改元为天正元年。
有回风自永福省吹其文物，皆倒折，见者莫不惊骇。
初，景既平京邑，便有篡夺之志，以四方须定，且未自立；既巴陵失律，江、郢丧师，猛将外歼，雄心内沮，便欲伪僭大号，遂其奸心。
其谋臣王伟云 自古移鼎，必须废立 ，故景从之。
其太尉郭元建闻之，自秦郡驰还，谏景曰： 四方之师所以不至者，政为二宫万福；若遂行弑逆，结怨海内，事几一去，虽悔无及。
王伟固执不从。
景乃矫栋诏，追尊昭明太子为昭明皇帝，豫章安王为安皇帝，金华敬妃为敬皇后，豫章国太妃王氏为皇太后，妃张氏为皇后；以刘神茂为司空，徐洪为平南将军，秦晃之、王晔、李贤明、徐永、徐珍国、宋长宝、尹思合并为仪同三司。
景以哀太子妃赐郭元建，元建曰： 岂有皇太子妃而降为人妾？
竟不与相见。
translation: 
Hou Jing drafted the edict and forced Taizong to copy it. When he wrote the sentence "The late emperor missed the importance of the throne and the stability of the country, he couldn't help but cry sadly and couldn't stop himself."
On the first day of the lunar month, Hou Jing welcomed Xiao Dong, the king of Yuzhang, to the throne of emperor in the front hall of Taiji. He granted amnesty to the world and changed the Yuan Dynasty to the first year of Tianzheng.
A whirlwind blew out of Vinh Phuc Province, and all the flags and ceremonial guards in the palace were blown down and broken. Everyone who saw it was shocked and frightened.
At the beginning, when Hou Jing pacified the capital, he had the intention of usurping the throne. However, because the four sides had to be pacified, he had not yet established himself as emperor. Now Baling does not obey the command, Jiangling and Yingzhou armies are defeated, and the fierce generals are annihilated outside. His ambition is frustrated, so he wants to ascend the throne and proclaim himself emperor to realize his treacherous plot.
His adviser Wang Wei said: Since ancient times, when changing dynasties, it is necessary to see whether there is destruction or establishment.
So Hou Jing followed his idea. Taiwei Guo Yuanjian learned that Hou Jing was going to depose him, so he rushed back to the capital from Qin County and advised Hou Jing: The reason why the armies from all directions did not come to the capital was because the two emperors were still alive. If we kill the emperor now, he will be resented by the people of the world. Once the big event is over, it will be too late to regret it.
Wang Wei was stubborn and refused to obey.
Hou Jing then falsely passed on Xiao Dong's Shao fate and honored Prince Zhaoming as Emperor Zhaoming, King An of Yuzhang as Emperor An, Concubine Jinhua as Concubine Jing, Concubine Wang of Yuzhang as Empress Dowager, and Concubine Zhang as Empress.
Hou Jing gave the Crown Princess Ai to Guo Yuanjian. Guo Yuanjian said: How can the Crown Princess be reduced to a concubine?
Still refused to meet her.


Chunk 39: 
original: 
十月壬寅夜，景遣其卫尉彭俊、王修纂奉酒于太宗曰： 丞相以陛下处忧既久，故令臣等奉进一觞。
太宗知其将弑，乃大酣饮酒，既醉还寝，修纂以帊盛土加于腹，因崩焉。
敛用法服，以薄棺密瘗于城北酒库。
初，太宗久见幽絷，朝士莫得接觐，虑祸将及，常不自安；惟舍人殷不害后稍得入，太宗指所居殿谓之曰： 庞涓当死此下。
又曰： 吾昨夜梦吞土，卿试为思之。
不害曰： 昔重耳馈塊，卒反晋国。陛下所梦，将符是乎？
太宗曰： 傥幽冥有征，冀斯言不妄耳。
至是见弑，实以土焉。
是月，景司空东道行台刘神茂、仪同尹思合、刘归义、王晔、云麾将军桑乾王元頵等据东阳归顺，仍遣元頵及别将李占、赵惠朗下据建德江口。
translation: 
On the night of Renyin in October, Hou Jing sent his guards Peng Tong and Wang Xiuzan to bring wine to Taizong and said: Because His Majesty has been worried about you for a long time, the Prime Minister ordered us to come and propose a toast to Your Majesty.
Taizong knew that Hou Jing wanted to kill him, so he drank to his heart's content and fell asleep drunk. Wang Xiuzuan pressed a piece of silk with earth on Taizong's abdomen, and Taizong died.
They dressed Taizong's body in formal clothes and buried it secretly in a wine warehouse in the north of the city in a thin coffin.
At the beginning, Taizong was detained for a long time, and the court ministers could not meet him. They were all worried that they would be harmed, and they could not feel at ease day and night. Only Shiren Yin Buhao gradually became able to enter the palace. Taizong pointed to the palace where he lived and said to him: "Pang Juan should die here, your highness."
He also said: I dreamed of swallowing clods of soil last night. Please explain this dream to me.
Yin Buhe said: When Chong'er was in exile and begging for food, the savages gave him clods of earth, and finally he returned to Jin as the king. Your Majesty's dream will be in line with this sign.
Taizong said: If there are signs of the fruit of the underworld, I hope what you say will not be false.
Now that Taizong was killed, he was indeed killed by a clod of soil.
This month, Hou Jing Sikong Dongdao Xingtai Liu Shenmao, Yi Tong Yin Sihe, Liu Guiyi, Wang Ye, Yunhui general Sangqian Wang Yuankai and others occupied Dongyang and came to submit, and then sent Yuan Kai and his generals Li Zhan and Zhao Huilang down the river to occupy the Jiande River mouth.


Chunk 40: 
original: 
尹思合收景新安太守元义，夺其兵。
张彪攻永嘉，永嘉太守秦远降彪。
十一月，景以赵伯超为东道行台，镇钱塘，遣仪同田迁、谢答仁等将兵东征神茂。
景矫萧栋诏，自加九锡之礼，置丞相以下百官。
陈备物于庭，忽有野鸟翔于景上，赤足丹觜，形似山鹊，贼徒悉骇，竞射之不能中。
景以刘劝、戚霸、硃安王为开府仪同三司，索九升为护军将军。
南兗州刺史侯子鉴献白麞，建康获白鼠以献，萧栋归之于景。
景以郭元建为南兗州刺史，太尉、北行台如故。
景又矫萧栋诏，追崇其祖为大将军，考为丞相。
translation: 
Yin Sihe captured Yuanyi, the prefect of Xin'an of Houjing faction, and captured his army.
Zhang Biao attacked Yongjia, and Qin Yuan, the governor of Yongjia, surrendered to Zhang Biao.
In November, Hou Jing appointed Tang Bochao as the host to guard Qianshan, and sent Yi Tong, Tian Qian, Xie Da and others to lead the army to conquer Shenmao eastward.
Hou Jing falsely conveyed Xiao Dong's order and gave himself the gift of nine tins, and appointed hundreds of officials below the prime minister.
Hou Jing displayed all the nine-tin ritual vessels in the courtyard. Suddenly, a wild crow flew above Hou Jing's head. It had red feet and a red beak and looked like a mountain magpie. Hou's followers were frightened and shot at it with arrows, but none of them could hit it.
Hou Jing appointed Liu Quan, Qi Ba, and King Zhu An as the third division of Kaifu Yitong, and Suo Jiu was promoted to the general of the guard army.
Hou Zijian, the governor of Southern Yanzhou, presented white deer and white rats captured by Jiankang. Xiao Dong handed these tributes to Hou Jing.
Hou Jing appointed Guo Yuanjian as the governor of Southern Yanzhou, and his palace positions of Taiwei and Beixingtai remained unchanged.
Hou Jing also falsely conveyed Xiao Dong's destiny and honored his grandfather as the general and his father as the prime minister.


Chunk 41: 
original: 
自加冕，十有二旒，建天子旌旗，出警入跸，乘金根车，驾六马，备五时副车，置旄头云罕，乐儛八佾，钟虡宫悬之乐，一如旧仪。
景又矫萧栋诏，禅位于己。
于是南郊，柴燎于天，升坛受禅文物，并依旧仪。
以轜车床载鼓吹，橐驼负牺牲，辇上置筌蹄、垂脚坐。
景所带剑水精标无故堕落，手自拾之。
将登坛，有兔自前而走，俄失所在；又白虹贯日。
景还升太极前殿，大赦，改元为太始元年。
封萧栋为淮阴王，幽于监省。
伪有司奏改 警跸 为 永跸 ，避景名也。
translation: 
He crowned himself with twelve jade strings, set up the emperor's banner, had to guard and clear the way when entering and exiting, rode a gold-rooted chariot, drove with six horses, and prepared a auxiliary chariot for the five seasons. He set up a jade-headed knight and a Yunhan banner as the forerunner of the chariot. There were eight rows and eight columns for singing and dancing, and there were bells, yu, and palace-hanging musical instruments. All these were arranged in accordance with the rituals of the ancient emperor.
Hou Jing also falsely conveyed Xiao Dong's edict and ceded the throne to himself.
So in the southern suburbs, the ceremony of offering firewood and the ceremony of ascending the altar to receive the flag were all in accordance with the rituals of the previous dynasty.
Hou Jing used a funeral car to carry propaganda, and used camels to carry sacrificial animals. The emperor's car was equipped with hoofs and hanging foot seats.
The crystal-marked sword that Hou Jing was carrying suddenly fell for no reason, and Hou Jing had to pick it up himself.
When he was about to board the earth altar, suddenly a rabbit ran in front of him and disappeared again after a while. There is also a white rainbow crossing the red sun.
After Hou Jing received Zen, he came back and climbed into the front hall of Tai Chi to grant amnesty to the world and changed the Yuan Dynasty to the first year of Taishi.
He named Xiao Dong King of Huaiyin and imprisoned him in the prison province.
In the pseudo-official memorial set by Hou Jing, please change "Jingzhi" to "Yongzhi" to avoid having the same pronunciation with the word "Jing".


Chunk 42: 
original: 
改梁律为汉律，改左民尚书为殿中尚书，五兵尚书为七兵尚书，直殿主帅为直寝。
景三公之官动置十数，仪同尤多，或匹马孤行，自执羁绊。
其左仆射王伟请立七庙，景曰： 何谓为七庙？
伟曰： 天子祭七世祖考，故置七庙。
并请七世之讳，敕太常具祭祀之礼。
景曰： 前世吾不复忆，惟阿爷名标。
众闻咸窃笑之。
景党有知景祖名周者，自外悉是王伟制其名位，以汉司徒侯霸为始祖，晋征士侯瑾为七世祖。
于是追尊其祖周为大丞相，父标为元皇帝。
十二月，谢答仁、李庆等至建德，攻元頵、李占栅，大破之，执頵、占送景。
景截其手足徇之，经日乃死。
景二年正月朔，临轩朝会。
translation: 
He also changed the rules and regulations of the Liang Dynasty to those of the Han Dynasty, changed the Zuo Min Shangshu to the Palace Shangshu, the Five Soldiers Shangshu to the Qi Bing Shangshu, and the Zhidian Commander-in-Chief to Zhi Bing.
Hou Jing's three-gong officials often gave gifts to more than ten people, especially Yi Tong. Some Yi Tong rode alone, leading the horses in person, without any soldiers.
Hou Jing's Zuopushe Wang Wei requested the establishment of seven temples. Hou Jing said: What are the Seven Temples?
Wang Wei said: The emperor wanted to worship the ancestors of seven generations, so he built seven temples.
He also asked the names of ancestors from the seventh generation in order to order Taichang officials to prepare sacrificial gifts.
Hou Jing said: I can't even recall my past life, I only remember that my father's name was Hou Biao.
Everyone laughed secretly after hearing this.
Some of Hou Jing's party members knew that Hou Jing's grandfather was named Hou Zhou, and all other ancestral names were made up by Wang Wei for him. Wang Wei took Situ Houba of the Han Dynasty as Hou Jing's ancestor, and Hou Jin, a conqueror of the Jin Dynasty, as his seventh generation ancestor.
So he followed his grandfather Hou Zhou as the prime minister and his father Hou Biao as the emperor of the Yuan Dynasty.
In December, Xie Dayen, Li Qing and others went to Jiande, attacked Yuan Dai and Li Zhan's camp, defeated them, and captured Yuan Dai and Li Zhan and gave them to Hou Jing.
Hou Jing chopped off their hands and feet and showed them to the public. It took a whole day for them to die.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the second year of Hou Jing's reign, he went to the palace for a court meeting.


Chunk 43: 
original: 
景自巴丘挫衄，军兵略尽，恐齐人乘衅与西师掎角，乃遣郭元建率步军趣小岘，侯子鉴率舟师向濡须，曜兵肥水，以示武威。
子鉴至合肥，攻罗城，克之。
郭元建、侯子鉴俄闻王师既近，烧合肥百姓邑居，引军退，子鉴保姑孰，元建还广陵。
时谢答仁攻刘神茂，神茂别将王华、丽通并据外营降答仁。
刘归义、尹思合等惧，各弃城走。
神茂孤危，复降答仁。
王僧辩军至芜湖，芜湖城主宵遁。
景遣史安和、宋长贵等率兵二千，助子鉴守姑孰，追田迁等还京师。
是月，景党郭长献马驹生角。
三月，景往姑孰，巡视垒栅，又诫子鉴曰： 西人善水战，不可与争锋，往年任约败绩，良为此也。
若得马步一交，必当可破，汝但坚壁以观其变。
translation: 
Since Baqiu suffered a setback, Hou Jing's army has been almost wiped out. He was afraid that the Qi people would take the opportunity to attack him from both sides with the army from the western vassal town, so he sent Guo Yuanjian to lead the infantry to Xiaoxian, and Hou Zijian led the navy to Ruxu to show off his strength in Feishui.
Hou Zijian arrived in Hefei, attacked Luocheng and captured it.
Soon, Guo Yuanjian and Hou Zijian heard that Wang's army was nearby, so they burned the city and residents' houses in Hefei and retreated with their troops. Hou Zijian guarded Gushu, and Guo Yuanjian withdrew his troops back to Guangling.
At this time, Xie Taren attacked Liu Shenmao, and Liu Shenmao's generals Wang Ye and Litong defended the outer camp. They surrendered to Xie Taren at the same time.
Liu Guiyi, Yin Sihe and others were afraid and abandoned the city and fled.
Liu Shenmao's lone army was in danger, so he surrendered to Xie Daren.
Wang Sengbian led his army to Wuhu, and the city lord of Wuhu fled overnight.
Hou Jing sent Shi Anhe, Song Changgui and others with two thousand troops to assist Hou Zijian in guarding Gushu. Hou Jing himself caught up with Tian Qian and others and led his army back to the capital.
This month, Guo Chang, a disciple of Hou Jing's party, presented a horse with horns.
In March, Hou Jing went to Gushu, inspected the military fortress, and warned Hou Zijian again: Westerners are good at water warfare, and you should not fight with them on the water to decide the outcome. In previous years, Ren Yue was defeated by them for this reason.
If we can fight them on land, we can definitely defeat them. You just need to strengthen the fortifications to hold on and watch the changes in the war.


Chunk 44: 
original: 
子鉴乃舍舟登岸，闭营不出。
僧辩等遂停军十余日，贼党大喜，告景曰： 西师惧吾之强，必欲遁逸，不击，将失之。
景复命子鉴为水战之备。
子鉴乃率步骑万余人渡洲，并引水军俱进，僧辩逆击，大破之，子鉴仅以身免。
景闻子鉴败，大惧涕下，覆面引衾以卧，良久方起，叹曰： 误杀乃公！
僧辩进军，次张公洲。
景以卢晖略守石头，纥奚斤守捍国城，悉逼百姓及军士家累入台城内。
僧辩焚景水栅，入淮，至祥灵寺渚。景大惊，乃缘淮立栅，自石头至硃雀航。
僧辩及诸将遂于石头城西步上连营立栅，至于落星墩。
景大恐，自率侯子鉴、于庆、史安和、王僧贵等，于石头东北立栅拒守。
使王伟、索超世、吕季略守台城，宋长贵守延祚寺。
遣掘王僧辩父墓，剖棺焚尸。
王僧辩等进营于石头城北，景列阵挑战。
僧辩率众军奋击，大破之，侯子鉴、史安和、王僧贵各弃栅走，卢晖略、纥奚斤并以城降。
景既退败，不入宫，敛其散兵，屯于阙下，遂将逃窜。
王伟揽辔谏曰： 自古岂有叛天子！
translation: 
In view of the fact that Hou Zi abandoned his ship and landed, he set up camp and could not hold on.
As a result, Wang Sengbian and others stopped military operations for more than ten days. Hou Zijian and others were overjoyed and reported to Hou Jing: The Western Division is afraid of the strength of our army. They will definitely want to escape. If they do not attack them, they will lose a good opportunity.
Hou Jing also ordered Hou Zijian to prepare for a water battle.
Since Hou Zi led more than 10,000 people on foot and cavalry to cross the island, he also led the navy to march together. Wang Sengbian fought and defeated Hou Zijian. Hou Zijian's entire army was wiped out, and only one person escaped back.
When Hou Jing heard about Hou Zijian's defeat, he cried in horror. He covered his head with a quilt and lay down. After a long time, he got up and sighed: "This guy accidentally killed me!"
Wang Sengbian marched and stationed himself at Zhang Gongzhou.
Hou Jing appointed Lu Hui to guard Stone City, and He Xijin to guard the national city. Hou Jing forced all the people and the families of the soldiers to move into Taicheng.
Wang Sengbian burned Hou Jing's water fence, entered the Huai River, and reached the waterside of Chanling Temple. Hou Jing was shocked, so he built a fence along the Huai River, from Stone City to Zhuquehang.
Wang Sengbian and other generals went ashore at the west port of Shitou City and set up a fence all the way to Luoxing Pier.
Hou Jing was so frightened that he personally led Hou Zijian, Yu Qing, Shi Anhe, Wang Senggui and others to build a camp in the northeast of Stone City to resist defense.
Hou Jing sent Wang Wei, Suo Chaoshi, and Lu Jilue to guard Taicheng, and Song Changgui sent to guard Yanzuo Temple.
Hou Jing also sent people to dig up the grave of Wang Sengbian's father, open the coffin, and burn the body.
Wang Sengbian and others marched and set up camp in the north of Stone City, and Hou Jing formed a formation to challenge.
Wang Sengbian led the troops to attack bravely and defeated Hou Jingjun. Hou Zijian, Shi Anhe, and Wang Sengui each abandoned the camp and fled. Lu Huilue and He Xijin led Shitoucheng to surrender to Wang Sengbian.
After Hou Jing's soldiers were defeated, he did not enter the palace city, but collected his scattered soldiers and stationed them under the city so that they could escape at any time.
Wang Wei pulled his horse's bridle to dissuade him and said: Since ancient times, there has never been an emperor who escaped!


Chunk 45: 
original: 
今宫中卫士，尚足一战，宁可便走，弃此欲何所之？
景曰： 我在北打贺拔胜，破葛荣，扬名河、朔，与高王一种人。
今来南渡大江，取台城如反掌，打邵陵王于北山，破柳仲礼于南岸，皆乃所亲见。
今日之事，恐是天亡。
乃好守城，我当复一决耳。
仰观石阙，逡巡叹息。
久之，乃以皮囊盛二子挂马鞍，与其仪同田迁、范希荣等百余骑东奔。
王伟委台城窜逸，侯子鉴等奔广陵。
王僧辩遣侯瑱率军追景。
景至晋陵，劫太守徐永东奔吴郡，进次嘉兴，赵伯超据钱塘拒之。
景退还吴郡，达松江，而侯瑱军掩至，景众未阵，皆举幡乞降。
景不能制，乃与腹心数十人单舸走，推堕二子于水，自沪渎入海。
至壶豆洲，前太子舍人羊鲲杀之，送尸于王僧辩，传首西台，曝尸于建康市。百姓争取屠脍啖食，焚骨扬灰。
曾罹其祸者，乃以灰和酒饮之。
及景首至江陵，世祖命枭之于市，然后煮而漆之，付武库。
景长不满七尺，而眉目疏秀。
translation: 
Now that the guards in the palace can still fight, how can they just run away, abandon the capital, and plan to escape to where?
Hou Jing said: I attacked Helansheng in the north, destroyed Ge Rong, and became famous in He and Shuo. King Gao is of the same race.
Later, he crossed the river south, captured Taicheng with ease, defeated King Shaoling on the north mountain, and defeated Liu Zhongli on the south bank. These are all things you have seen with your own eyes.
If we are defeated today, I am afraid that God will kill me.
You defend the city well, and I will fight them to the death again.
Looking up at the Stone City Palace, I lingered and sighed for a long time.
Finally, he put his two sons in leather bags and hung them on the saddles, and fled eastward with his Yi, Tian Qian, Fan Xirong and other hundreds of horses.
Wang Wei abandoned Taicheng and fled. Hou Zijian and others also fled to Guangling.
Wang Sengbian sent Hou Yi to lead his army to pursue Hou Jing.
Hou Jing fled to Jinling, kidnapped the prefect Xu Yong and fled eastward to Wujun, where he stationed in Jiaxing. Zhao Bochao took Qiantang to resist him.
Hou Jing withdrew his army and returned to Wu County. When they arrived at Songjiang, Hou Yi's army suddenly attacked. Hou Jing's troops had not yet formed their formation, and they all held up flags and asked Hou Yi to surrender.
Hou Jing couldn't stop him, so he had to escape in a boat with ten of his close friends, pushed his two sons into the water, and then entered the sea from Hudu.
When they arrived at Hudouzhou, Yang Kun, the former prince's servant, killed Hou Jing and gave the body to Wang Sengbian. Yu Sengbian sent Hou Jing's head to the west platform and displayed the body in Jiankang Market. The people competed to cut his flesh and eat it, and burned his bones to ashes and discarded them.
People who had been harmed by Hou Jing mixed Hou Jing's ashes with wine and drank it.
Hou Jing's head was sent to Jiangling, where Emperor Shizu ordered it to be hung for public display, then boiled, painted and handed over to the arsenal.
Hou Jing is less than seven feet tall, but has handsome features.


Chunk 46: 
original: 
性猜忍，好杀戮。
刑人或先斩手足，割舌劓鼻，经日方死。
曾于石头立大舂碓，有犯法者，皆捣杀之，其惨虐如此。
自篡立后，时著白纱帽，而尚披青袍，或以牙梳插髻。
床上常设胡床及筌蹄，著靴垂脚坐。
或匹马游戏于宫内，及华林园弹射乌鸟。
谋臣王伟不许轻出，于是郁怏，更成失志。
所居殿常有鸺鶹鸟鸣，景恶之，每使人穷山野讨捕焉。
普通中，童谣曰： 青丝白马寿阳来。
后景果乘白马，兵皆青衣。
所乘马，每战将胜，辄踯躅嘶鸣，意气骏逸，其奔衄，必低头不前。
translation: 
He has a jealous and cruel personality and likes to kill people.
When he wanted to kill someone, he would always cut off the person's hands and feet first, then cut off the tongue and nose, causing the person to suffer for a whole day before dying.
He once set up a large stone pound for pounding rice in Stone City. Anyone who broke the law would be put in a mortar and smashed with a spring pound. He was so cruel and cruel.
Since he usurped the throne and became emperor, he often wears a white gauze hat and a green robe, and sometimes puts a tooth comb in his bun.
Hu beds and bamboo hooves are often placed on the bed, and he sits with his feet hanging down in his boots.
Sometimes he would ride a horse and play games in Gongxiang alone, or go to Hualin Garden to shoot black bullet birds.
Adviser Wang Wei refused to let him leave the palace rashly. From then on, he became irritable and became more and more angry and confused.
There were often hooting owls in the palace where he lived. Hou Jing hated them very much and often sent people to the mountains and fields to ask for all the owls to be hunted down.
In ordinary years, a nursery rhyme goes: A white horse with green hair and a long life will come.
Later, the commander of the fort rode on a white horse, and the soldiers all wore blue clothes.
When Hou Jing is about to win a battle, the horse he rides on always steps forward and neighs, showing an extraordinary air. When he is defeated, he always lowers his head and does not move forward.


Chunk 47: 
original: 
初，中大同中，高祖尝夜梦中原牧守皆以地来降，举朝称庆，寤甚悦之。
旦见中书舍人硃异说所梦，异曰： 此岂宇内方一，天道前见其征乎？
高祖曰： 吾为人少梦，昨夜感此，良足慰怀。
及太清二年，景果归附，高祖欣然自悦，谓与神通，乃议纳之，而意犹未决。
曾夜出视事，至武德阁，独言： 我家国犹若金瓯，无一伤缺，今便受地，讵是事宜，脱致纷纭，非可悔也。
硃异接声而对曰： 圣明御宇，上应苍玄，北土遗黎，谁不慕仰？
为无机会，未达其心。
今侯景据河南十余州，分魏土之半，输诚送款，远归圣朝，岂非天诱其衷，人奖其计？原心审事，殊有可嘉。
今若拒而不容，恐绝后来之望，此诚易见，愿陛下无疑。
高祖深纳异言，又信前梦，乃定议纳景。
及贞阳覆败，边镇恇扰，高祖固已忧之，曰： 吾今段如此，勿作晋家事乎？
translation: 
At first, during the reign of Zhongdatong, Emperor Gaozu once dreamed at night that the chiefs of Zhongyuan prefectures and counties came to surrender with land. Officials in the Manchu Dynasty called it a joyous occasion, and he was very happy when he woke up.
Tianming met Zhu Yi, a member of Zhongshushe, and told Zhu Yi what he had dreamed about. Zhu Yi said, "Isn't this the sign that the world will be unified, and the celestial phenomena have shown signs of it in advance?"
Emperor Gaozu said: I seldom dream, but what I dreamed about last night really made me happy.
In the second year of the Taiqing Dynasty, Hou Jing came to join him. Zhizu was very happy and believed that he was in harmony with heaven's will, so he planned to accept Hou Jing, but he had not yet made up his mind.
He once left the palace at night to attend to matters, walked to Wude Pavilion, and said to himself: Our country is like a golden pot, intact. Isn't it a good thing to accept Hou Jingliang's surrender today? Even if everyone has different opinions, I have no regrets.
Zhu Yi then said: "The Holy One governs the world wisely, obeys the will of God, and sends people to the north. Who doesn't yearn for the Holy One?"
Just because there is no chance, their wishes cannot be realized.
Today, Hou Jing controls more than ten states in southern Zhou Dynasty and divided half of Wei's land. He expressed his sincerity to the Holy Emperor and came all the way to submit to the Holy Dynasty. Isn't it true that God enlightened his mind and the people appreciated his idea. It is very commendable to investigate his original intention and the reason for investigating the matter.
If you refuse him to surrender today, I'm afraid it will disappoint those who later surrendered. The reason for surrender is indeed obvious. I hope your Majesty will not hesitate any longer.
Emperor Gaozu completely agreed with Zhu Yi's words and believed in his previous dream, so he decided to accept Hou Jing.
When Marquis Zhenyang's army was destroyed, the border towns were in fear and panic. Emperor Gaozu was already very worried about this, but he said: Now that we have reached the point of being sent away, do we have to give up the country like the Jin Dynasty?


Chunk 48: 
original: 
先是，丹阳陶弘景隐于华阳山，博学多识，尝为诗曰： 夷甫任散诞，平叔坐谈空。不意昭阳殿，化作单于宫。
大同末，人士竞谈玄理，不习武事；至是，景果居昭阳殿。
天监中，有释宝志曰： 掘尾狗子自发狂，当死未死啮人伤，须臾之间自灭亡，起自汝阴死三湘。
又曰： 山家小儿果攘臂，太极殿前作虎视。
掘尾狗子、山家小儿，皆猴状。
景遂覆陷都邑，毒害皇室。
大同中，太医令硃耽尝直禁省，无何，夜梦犬羊各一在御坐，觉而恶之，告人曰： 犬羊者，非佳物也。今据御坐，将有变乎？
既而天子蒙尘，景登正殿焉。
及景将败，有僧通道人者，意性若狂，饮酒啖肉，不异凡等，世间游行已数十载，姓名乡里，人莫能知。
translation: 
Previously, Danyang Tao Hongjing lived in seclusion in Huayang Mountain. He was very knowledgeable and knowledgeable. He once wrote a poem and said: The Yifu was willful and unrestrained. He sat in Mangtan and talked about fantasy Buddhism. Unexpectedly, Zhaoyang Palace turned into the Shanyu Palace of the Xiongnu.
In the last years of Datong, scholars competed to talk about mystical principles and did not study military affairs. Now Hou Jing has indeed entered Zhaoyang Palace.
During the Tianjian period, there was a Shi Zhizhi that said: A dog with a tail dug suddenly went crazy, biting people when they were still alive, and then killed itself, fell from the white wall, and died in three embraces.
He also said: The boy from the Shan family stretched out his clothes, raised his arms, and turned into a tiger in front of the Tai Chi Hall, staring eagerly.
The tail-hunting dog and the mountain boy are both shaped like monkeys.
In this way, Hou Jing destroyed and captured Kyoto and poisoned the royal family.
During the Datong period, the imperial physician ordered Zhu Dan to stay in the forbidden province. Not long after, he dreamed that a dog and a sheep were sitting on the emperor's throne. When he woke up, he was disgusted by this. He told others: Dogs and sheep are not good things. They occupy the emperor's throne. Will there be chaos in the country?
Afterwards, it turned out that the emperor suffered a disaster, and Hou Jing ascended the main hall.
When Hou Jing was about to be defeated, there was a monk named Seng Tong. His temperament was like a madman, and he drank and ate meat just like ordinary people. He had been wandering around the world for decades, and no one knew his name and place of origin.


Chunk 49: 
original: 
初言隐伏，久乃方验，人并呼为阇梨，景甚信敬之。
景尝于后堂与其徒共射，时僧通在坐，夺景弓射景阳山，大呼云 得奴已 。
景后又宴集其党，又召僧通。僧通取肉揾盐以进景，问曰： 好不？
景答： 所恨太咸。
僧通曰： 不咸则烂臭。
果以盐封其尸。
王伟，陈留人。少有才学，景之表、启、书、檄，皆其所制。
景既得志，规摹篡夺，皆伟之谋。
及囚送江陵，烹于市，百姓有遭其毒者，并割炙食之。
史臣曰：夫道不恒夷，运无常泰，斯则穷通有数，盛衰相袭，时屯阳九，盖在兹焉。
若乃侯景小竖，叛换本国，识不周身，勇非出类，而王伟为其谋主，成此奸慝。
驱率丑徒，陵江直济，长戟强弩，沦覆宫阙，祸缠宸极，毒遍黎元，肆其恣睢之心，成其篡盗之祸。
translation: 
What he said had obscure meanings that could only be verified after a long time. People called him Tianli, and Hou Jing believed and respected him very much.
Hou Jing once shot arrows with his followers in the back hall. At that time, Seng Tong was also there. He took Hou Jing's bow and shot an arrow at Jing Yacan, shouting "I'm a slave."
Wu Jing later held a banquet to gather with his followers, and summoned Seng Tong to the banquet. Seng Tong took the meat, rubbed it with salt, gave it to Hou Jing, and asked: "Is it okay?"
Hou Jing replied: It's just too salty.
Sengtong said: If the meat is not salted, it will stink.
Sure enough, Hou Jing's body was sealed with salt.
Wang Wei, a native of Chen Liu, was very talented and learned when he was young. Hou Jing's tables, letters, letters, and messages were all drafted and produced by Wang Wei.
After Hou Jing succeeded, he planned to usurp the throne, and it was Wang Wei who made the plans for him.
Later, Wang Wei was imprisoned and sent to Jiangling, where he was cooked in the market. The people who had been poisoned by Wang Wei cut off his flesh and roasted it for eating.
Shi Chen said: The way of heaven will not be peaceful for a long time, nor will the destiny of the country be peaceful for a long time. This is because embarrassment and prosperity have a certain end, and prosperity and decline alternate with each other. This is the reason why the Liang Dynasty suffered misfortune.
A boy like Hou Jing was domineering in his own country, his knowledge could not protect him, and his courage was not outstanding, but Wang Wei became his mastermind and made his evil conspiracy succeed.
He led a group of party members to cross the Yangtze River, and with the help of halberds and powerful crossbows, he captured the capital, brought disaster to the emperor, and caused disaster to all the people in the world. He acted arbitrarily, causing the disaster of usurping and stealing the throne.


Chunk 50: 
original: 
呜呼！
国之将亡，必降妖孽。
虽曰人事，抑乃天时。
昔夷羿乱夏，犬戎厄周，汉则莽、卓流灾，晋则敦、玄构祸，方之羯贼，有逾其酷，悲夫！
translation: 
Alas!
When the country is about to perish, evil spirits will surely descend.
Although this is a matter of human power, it is also a matter of time.
In the past, Yi Yi caused chaos in the Xia Dynasty, and dog soldiers harmed the Zhou Dynasty. In the Han Dynasty, Wang Mang and Dong Zhuo spread disasters. In the Jin Dynasty, Wang Dun and Huan Xuan caused trouble. The Jie thieves were more cruel than them. How sad!


