Chunk 0: 
original: 
南匈奴落尸逐鞮单于比者，呼韩邪单于之孙，乌珠留若鞮单于之子也。
自呼韩邪后，诸子以次立，至比季父孝单于舆时，以比为右薁鞬日逐王，部领南边及乌桓。
建武初，彭宠反畔于渔阳，单于与共连兵，因复权立卢芳，使入居五原。光武初，方平诸夏，未遑外事。
至六年，始令归德侯刘飒使匈奴，匈奴亦遣使来献，汉复令中郎将韩统报命，赂遗金币，以通旧好。
而单于骄踞，自比冒顿，对使者辞语悖慢，帝待之如初。
初，使命常通，而匈奴数与卢芳共侵北边。
九年，遣大司马吴汉等击之。经岁无功，而匈奴转盛，抄暴日增。
十三年，遂寇河东，州郡不能禁。
于是渐徙幽、并边人于常山关、居庸关已东，匈奴左部遂复转居塞内。
朝廷患之，增缘边兵郡数千人，大筑亭候，修烽火。
translation: 
The southern Xiongnu Kuluo corpse chased Qian Chanyu, whose name was Bi. He was the grandson of Huhanxie Chanyu and the son of Wuzhu Liuruo Qian Chanyu.
After Huhanxie, his sons served as Chanyu in order. When Bi's youngest uncle Xiaochanyuyu was appointed, Bi was appointed as the stone king of Tatar and commanded the southern border and Wuhuan.
In the early years of Jianwu, Peng Chong rebelled in Yuyang. Chanyu joined forces with Peng Chong, and then he had the power to make Lu Fang the emperor and asked him to live in Wuyuan. In the early years of Guangwu, he was busy pacifying the Central Plains and had no time to deal with overseas affairs.
In the sixth year of Jianwu, Liu Sa, the Marquis of Guide, was ordered to send envoys to the Huns. The Huns also sent envoys to pay tribute. The Han Dynasty sent Zhonglang General Han Tong to pay a return visit to the Huns and presented them with gold coins to continue their former friendship.
However, the Shanyu was arrogant, compared himself to Maodun, and spoke arrogantly and arrogantly to the Han envoys. However, the emperor still treated the Xiongnu as usual.
At first, envoys from both sides had frequent exchanges, but the Huns, together with Lu Fang, invaded the northern border many times.
In the ninth year, the emperor sent Grand Sima Wu Mo and others to attack the Xiongnu. It lasted for a year without any achievements. Instead, the Xiongnu became more powerful, and their looting and cruelty increased day by day.
In the thirteenth year, the Xiongnu invaded Hedong, and the prefectures and counties were unable to stop it.
So the population on the borders of Youzhou and Bingzhou was gradually moved to Changshan Pass and Juyong Pass, but the left side of the Xiongnu then moved into the fortress.
The imperial court was very worried about this, so it added thousands of soldiers to each county in the border area, built a large number of sentry boxes and set up beacons for monitoring the enemy's situation.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
匈奴闻汉购求卢芳，贪得财帛，乃遣芳还降，望得其赏。
而芳以自归为功，不称匈奴所遣，单于复耻言其计，故赏遂不行。
由是大恨，入寇尤深。二十年，遂至上党、扶风、天水。
二十一年冬，复寇上谷、中山，杀略抄掠甚众，北边无复宁岁。
初，单于弟右谷蠡王伊屠知牙师以次当为左贤王。
左贤王即是单于储副。
单于欲传其子，遂杀知牙师。
知牙师者，王昭君之子也。昭君字嫱，南郡人也。
初，元帝时，以良家子选入掖庭。
时，呼韩邪来朝，帝敕以宫女五人赐之。
昭君入宫数岁，不得见御，积悲怨，乃请掖庭令求行。
呼韩邪临辞大会，帝召五女以示之。
昭君丰容靓饰，光明汉宫，顾景裴回，竦动左右。
帝见大惊，意欲留之，而难于失信，遂与匈奴。
生二子。
及呼韩邪死，其前阏氏子代立，欲妻之，昭君上书求归，成帝敕令从胡俗，遂复为后单于阏氏焉。
比见知牙师被诛，出怨言曰： 以兄弟言之，右谷蠡王次当立；以子言之，我前单于长子，我当立。
translation: 
The Xiongnu heard that the Han had offered a reward for Lu Fang's capture and were eager to obtain property and cloth, so they sent Lu Fang back to surrender in the hope of receiving a reward.
However, Lu Fang only claimed the credit for his return and did not say that he was sent by the Huns. Shanyu was too ashamed to reveal his plan, so the court did not reward the Huns.
Therefore, the Xiongnu was very angry. Within twenty years, the Xiongnu invaded and invaded Shangdang, Fufeng, and Tianshui.
In the winter of the 21st year, the Xiongnu invaded Shanggu and Zhongshan again. They killed and plundered a large number of people and looted many things. There was no longer peace in the northern border.
At the beginning, Shanyu's younger brother Shiguli King Yitu knew that the dental master should be King Zuoxian in order.
King Zuo Xian was Shanyu's successor.
Chanyu wanted to pass the throne to his son, so he killed Zhiya Master.
The dentist is Wang Zhaojun's son. Zhaojun, whose courtesy name is Qiang, is from Nanjun.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, Zhaojun was selected into the harem as a woman from a good family.
At that time, Hu Hanxie came to court, and the emperor ordered five palace maids to be given to Hu Hanxie.
Zhaojun had been in the palace for several years, but he was not favored by the emperor. He was filled with grief and anger, so he requested to go to the Huns through the Yeting Order.
When Hu Hanxie was leaving, the court held a grand gathering, and the emperor summoned five maids to show Hu Hanxie.
Zhaojun was beautiful and well-dressed, and her beauty shone throughout the palace. Zhaojun wandered around, alarming everyone around the emperor.
The emperor was shocked when he saw it, and wanted to keep Zhaojun, but he could not break his promise, so he had to give Zhaojun to the Xiongnu.
Zhaojun had two sons.
After Hu Hanxie died, the son of the previous Pi clan succeeded to the throne and wanted to marry Zhaojun. Zhaojun wrote to the court asking for his return. Emperor Cheng asked Zhaojun to obey the customs of the Hu people, so Zhaojun became the Hou Shanyu Ban clan.
When Bi saw Zhiya Master being killed, he complained: According to the order of brothers, King Yougu Li should succeed to the throne; according to the identity of a son, I am the eldest son of the predecessor Shanyu, so I should succeed.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
遂内怀猜惧，庭会稀阔。
单于疑之，乃遣两骨都侯监领比所部兵。
二十二年，单于舆死，子左贤王乌达鞮侯立为单于。
复死，弟左贤王蒲奴立为单于。
比不得立，既怀愤恨。
而匈奴中连年旱蝗，赤地数千里，草木尽枯，人畜饥疫，死耗太半。
单于畏汉乘其敝，乃遣使诣渔阳求和亲。
于是遣中郎将李茂报命。
而比密遣汉人郭衡奉匈奴地图，二十三年，诣西河太守求内附。
两骨都侯颇觉其意，会五月龙祠，因白单于，言薁鞬日逐夙来欲为不善，若不诛，且乱国。
时，比弟渐将王在单于帐下，闻之，驰以报比。
比惧，遂敛所主南边八部众四五万人，待两骨都侯还，欲杀之。
骨都侯且到，知其谋，皆轻骑亡去，以告单于。
单于遣万骑击之，见比众盛，不敢进而还。
二十四年春，八部大人共议立比为呼韩邪单于，以其大父尝依汉得安，故欲袭其号。
于是款五原塞，愿永为籓蔽，扞御北虏。
translation: 
Therefore, he was filled with suspicion and fear, and rarely attended gatherings in the royal court.
The Chanyu became suspicious of him and sent two Guduhou to monitor Bi's army.
In the twenty-second year, Shanyu Yu died, and Yu's son Zuoxian Wang Wuda Qianhou became the Shanyu.
Wu Daqianhou died again, and his younger brother Zuoxian Wang Punu was established as Chanyu.
Bi failed to become a chanyu and was already filled with resentment.
Moreover, there have been droughts and locusts in the Xiongnu country for several consecutive years. Thousands of miles of land have become bare, all vegetation has died, and the population and livestock have no food to eat. Coupled with the plague, people! More than half were killed and attrited.
The Chanyu was afraid that the Han would take advantage of his weakness, so he sent an envoy to Yuyang to request peace.
So the imperial court sent Li Mao, the lieutenant general, to pay a return visit to the Huns.
Danbi secretly sent Han Guo Heng to take the Xiongnu map, and in the 23rd year of Jianwu, he went to the prefect of Xihe to demand submission to the Han.
The two Guduhous gradually became aware of Bi's intention, and they happened to hold a sacrifice in Longcheng in May, so they reported to Shanyu that King Dian Tarri Zhu had always wanted to do something unfavorable to Shanyu, and if he was not killed, the country would be in trouble.
At this time, Bi's younger brother gradually came to Shanyu's side. After hearing this, he immediately reported to Bi.
Bi was very frightened, so he gathered eight troops from the southern border under his control, numbering 40 to 50,000 people, and planned to wait for the two Gudu Hous to return and kill them.
When Guduhou was about to arrive, he discovered Bi's plan and fled on horseback alone, reporting the situation to Shanyu.
Shan Yu sent ten thousand cavalry to attack Bi. Seeing that Bi was outnumbered, he retreated without daring to advance.
In the spring of the 24th year of Jianwu, the eight ministers discussed together to establish Bi as Huhanxie Chanyu. Since Bi's grandfather once surrendered to the Han Dynasty and gained peace, they planned to use the name of Huhanxie Chanyu.
So Bi came to Wuyuan Fortress and expressed his willingness to be a barrier for the Han to resist the enemies in the north.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
帝用五官中郎将耿国议，乃许之。
其冬，比自立为呼韩邪单于。
二十五年春，遣弟左贤王莫将兵万余人击北单于弟薁鞬左贤王，生获之；又破北单于帐下，并得其众，合万余人，马七千匹、牛羊万头。
北单于震怖，却地千里。
初，帝造战车，可驾数牛，上作楼橹，置于塞上，以拒匈奴。
时人见者或相谓曰： 谶言汉九世当却北狄地千里，岂谓此邪？ 及是，果拓地焉。
北部薁鞬骨都侯与右骨都侯率众三万余人来归南单于，南单于复遣使诣阙，奉籓称臣，献国珍宝，求使者监护，遣侍子，修旧约。
二十六年，遣中郎将段郴、副校尉王郁使南单于，立其庭，去五原西部塞八十里。
单于乃延迎使者。
使者曰： 单于当伏拜受诏。
单于顾望有顷，乃伏称臣。
拜讫，令译晓使者曰： 单于新立，诚惭于左右，愿使者众中无相屈折也。
translation: 
The emperor accepted the opinion of Geng Guo, the general of the Fifth Palace, and agreed.
In the winter of that year, Bi Zi established himself as Hu Hanxie Chanyu.
In the spring of the 25th year, Shanyu sent his younger brother Zuoxian Wang Mo to lead more than 10,000 troops to attack Beidan Shanyu's younger brother Zuoxian King Dianta, and captured Zuoxian King Dianta alive. He also defeated Beidan's army, merged more than 10,000 people from Beidan's tribe, and obtained 7,000 horses and 10,000 cattle and sheep.
Bei Shanyu was frightened and retreated a thousand miles.
At first, the emperor built chariots that could be driven by a few oxen. They built a watchtower on the chariot and placed it on the fortress to resist the Huns.
At that time, people who saw the chariot talked among themselves and said: The prophecy said that in the ninth generation of the Han Dynasty, Beidi would be retreated thousands of miles. Is this what it was talking about?
By this time, the territory had indeed been opened up. The northern Dukes of Diantargu and Yougudu led more than 30,000 tribesmen to defect to Nandanyu. Nandanyu once again sent envoys to the court, proclaimed himself as a vassal, presented the treasures of the country, asked for envoys to be sent to supervise and protect him, and sent his son to serve at the court to conclude the previous alliance.
In the twenty-sixth year, the emperor sent his lieutenant general Duan Chen and his deputy captain Wang Yu as envoys to Nandanyu. They established themselves in Nandanyu court, which was eighty miles away from the western frontier fortress of Wuyuan.
Chanyu then invited the Han envoys to meet him.
The messenger said: The Chanyu should lie down on the ground and worship the edict.
Shanyu looked back and forth for a long time before lying on the ground and proclaiming his vassal.
After paying homage, the Chanyu had to translate and tell the envoy: The Chanyu has just ascended the throne and feels really ashamed in front of his subordinates. I hope the envoy will not condescend to the Chanyu in front of everyone.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
骨都侯等见，皆泣下。
郴等反命，诏乃听南单于入居云中。
遣使上书，献骆驼二头，文马十匹。
夏，南单于所获北虏薁鞬左贤王将其众及南部五骨都侯合三万余人畔归，去北庭三百余里，共立薁鞬左贤王为单于。
月余日，更相攻击，五骨都侯皆死，左贤王遂自杀，诸骨都侯子各拥兵自守。
秋，南单于遣子入侍，奉奏诣阙。
诏赐单于冠带、衣裳、黄金玺、緺绶，安车羽盖，华藻驾驷，宝剑弓箭，黑节三，驸马二，黄金、锦绣、缯布万匹，絮万斤，乐器鼓车，戟甲兵，饮食什器。
又转河东米二万五千斛。牛、羊三万六千头，以赡给之。
令中郎将置安集掾史将弛刑五十人，持兵弩随单于所处，参辞讼，察动静。
单于岁尽辄遣使奉奏，送侍子入朝，中郎将从事一人将领诣阙。
汉遣谒者送前侍子还单于庭，交会道路。
元正朝贺，拜祠陵庙毕，汉乃遣单于使，令谒者将送，赐彩缯千匹，锦四端，金十斤，太宫御食酱及橙、橘、龙眼、荔支；赐单于母及诸阏氏、单于子及左右贤王、左右谷蠡王、骨都侯有功善有，缯彩合万匹。
translation: 
Seeing this, Guduhou and others shed tears.
Duan Chen and others came back to answer their orders, and the emperor sent a letter to Shao to follow Nan Danyu to live in Yunzhong.
Chan Yu sent an envoy to submit a letter and presented two camels and ten horses with colorful coats.
In the summer, the northern enemy captured by the Southern Danyu, the Tatar Zuoxian King, led his troops and the five southern Gudu princes, more than 30,000 people in total, rebelled and returned to the north. They jointly established the Tatar Zuoxian King as the Shanyu at a place more than 300 miles away from the northern Danyu court.
More than a month later, they attacked each other, and all five Guduhous died. King Zuo Xian then committed suicide. The sons of these Guduhous defended themselves.
In autumn, Nan Shanyu sent his son to serve in the court and presented a memorial to the court.
The emperor issued an edict to give Shan Yu a crown, clothes, gold seals, green ribbons, a small carriage with green feathers on the cover, a gorgeous carriage with four horses, swords and bows, three sets of black talismans, two auxiliary carriages, gold, exquisite silk, ten thousand pieces of silk, ten thousand pounds of silk cotton, musical instruments, drum carts, seven halberds, mail, weapons, food and various sundries.
They also transported 25,000 dendrobium rice noodles and 36,000 cattle and sheep from Hedong to help the southern Xiongnu.
Zhonglang was ordered to set up an Jifu Shi under his command, who would lead fifty prisoners who had been released from the shackles, follow the Shanyu with weapons and arrows, and participate in handling lawsuits and investigating news.
At the end of the year, Shanyu always sent someone to present a memorial and send his son to serve in the court. The Zhonglang would bring one of his servants to the court.
The imperial court also sent an audience to escort the previous son who had entered the court to serve in the imperial court back to Shan Yuting. The two sides met on the road.
On the first day of the first lunar month, the court held a pilgrimage to celebrate. After paying homage to the mausoleum and the ancestral temple, the Han Dynasty sent the Chanyu envoy back, ordered the envoys to escort him, and gave the Chanyu a thousand pieces of colored silk, four ends of brocade silk, ten pounds of gold, and a eunuch to make it for the emperor. He made jam, as well as oranges, tangerines, longans and lychees, and gave various colored silks and silks to the Chanyu's mother, all the Pi family members, the Chanyu's sons and the meritorious people among the left and right kings, the kings of Guli and the princes of Gudu, totaling ten thousand pieces.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
岁以为常。
匈奴俗，岁有三岁祠，常以正月、五月、九月戊日祭天神。
南单于既内附，兼祠汉帝，因会诸部议国事，走马及骆驼为乐。
其大臣贵者左贤王，次左谷蠡王，次右贤王，次右谷蠡王，谓之四角；次左右日逐王，次左右温禺鞮王，次左右渐将王，是为六角；皆单于子弟，次第当为单于者也。
异姓大臣：左右骨都侯，次左右尸逐骨都侯，其余日逐、且渠、当户诸官号，各以权力优劣、部众多少为高下次第焉。
单于姓虚连题。
异姓有呼衍氏、须卜氏、丘林氏、兰氏四姓，为国中名族，常与单于婚姻。
呼衍氏为左，兰氏、须卜氏为右，主断狱听讼，当决轻重，口白单于，无文书簿领焉。
冬，前畔五骨都侯子复将其众三千人归南部，北单于使骑追击，悉获其众。
translation: 
Every year as a routine.
According to the custom of the Xiongnu, there are dragon temples three times a year, usually on Wuyue of the first month, fifth month, and ninth month to worship the gods.
Since Nan Danyu surrendered to the Han Dynasty, he also offered sacrifices to the Han Emperor. He took this opportunity to convene various ministries to discuss state affairs and hold horse and camel races for fun.
The most honorable among the Xiongnu ministers is King Zuo Xian, followed by King Zuo Guli, followed by King You Xian, followed by King You Guli, which is called the Four Corners; followed by King Ri Zhui of the Left and Right, followed by the Thousand Kings of Wen Yu of the Left and Right, followed by King Jianjiang of the Left and Right, which is called the Six Corners: They are all sons and brothers of the Chanyu, and they will become the Chanyu in order.
Ministers with different surnames have the title of Left and Right Guduhou, followed by the Left and Right Zhizhuguduhou, and others have various official titles such as Rizhu, Qiequ, and Dangchu, each of which determines the position and order based on the power and the number of tribes.
Shanyu's surname is a virtual conjunction.
There are four different surnames: Huyan, Xub, Qiulin, and Lan. They are famous clans in the Xiongnu country and often intermarry with the Shanyu.
Hu Xian is on the left, Lan and Xu Bu are on the right. They are responsible for judging cases and accepting lawsuits. They will verbally inform Shanyu of the severity of the judgment. There are no documents or books in that bundle.
In the winter of the 26th year, the sons of the five Gudu lords who had rebelled before led 3,000 troops to defect to the south. The Northern Shanyu sent cavalry to pursue them and captured them all.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
南单于遣兵拒之，逆战不利。
于是复诏单于徙居西河美稷，因使中郎将段郴及副校尉王郁留西河拥护之，为设官府、从事、掾史。
令西河长史岁将骑二千、弛刑五百人，助中郎将卫护单于，冬屯夏罢。
自后以为常，及悉复缘边八郡。南单于既居西河，亦列置诸部王，助为扞戍。
使韩氏骨都侯屯北地，右贤王屯朔方，当于骨都侯屯五原，呼衍骨都侯屯云中，郎氏骨都侯屯定襄，左南将军屯雁门，栗籍骨都侯屯代郡，皆领部众为郡县侦罗耳目。
北单于惶恐，颇还所略汉人，以示善意。
抄兵每到南部下，还过亭候，辄谢曰： 自击亡虏薁鞬日逐耳，非敢犯汉人也。
二十七年，北单于遂遣使诣武威求和亲，天子召公卿廷议，不决。
皇太子言曰： 南单于新附，北虏惧于见伐，故倾耳而听，争欲归义耳。
今未能出兵，而反交通北虏，臣恐南单于将有二心，北虏降者且不复来矣。
帝然之，告武威太守勿受其使。
二十八年，北匈奴复遣使诣阙，贡马及裘，更乞和亲，并请音乐，又求率西域诸国胡客与俱献见。帝下三府议酬答之宜。
translation: 
Nan Shanyu sent troops to resist, but the battle was unfavorable.
The imperial court then issued a letter from Shao asking Shanyu to move to Meiji, Xihe, and sent Zhonglang Duan Chen and deputy captain Wang Yu to stay in Xihe to protect Shanyu, and to set up an official office, engage in work, and make history for Shanyu.
He also ordered Xihe Changsheng to lead 2,000 cavalry and 500 unchained prisoners every year to help Zhonglang guard Shanyu, stationed in the winter and withdrawn in the summer. From then on, it was a regular practice.
It also exempted the eight border counties from all taxes and labor. After Nan Danyu settled in Xihe, he also set up various princes and princes to help the Han Dynasty resist and guard the border.
Nan Danyu sent the Gudu Marquis of Han clan to garrison in the north, King Youxian to garrison Shuofang, Dangyu Gudu Marquis to garrison Wuyuan, Huyan Gudu Marquis to garrison Yunzhong, Lang clan Gudu Marquis to garrison Dingxiang, General Zuo Nan to garrison Yanmen, and Li Ji Gudu Marquis to garrison Daijun. They all commanded their troops to serve as the eyes and ears of the county to detect movements.
Bei Shanyu was very frightened and returned many Han people who had been kidnapped as a sign of friendship.
Every time their plundering troops passed near the south, or turned back and passed the post where the desert soldiers were scouting the enemy's situation, they always apologized and said: We are fighting the fugitive Dian Tayue King Zhu, and we are not daring to invade the Han people.
In the twenty-seventh year, Bei Shanyu sent an envoy to Wuwei to request peace. The emperor summoned the ministers to discuss the matter in the palace, but they could not make a decision.
The crown prince said: Southern Danyu had just surrendered, and the enemies in the north were afraid of being attacked, so they listened attentively and tried to submit to justice.
Now that the imperial court cannot send troops, but instead communicates with the enemy captives in the north, I am afraid that Nan Shanyu will have second thoughts, and the enemy captives in the north who are willing to surrender will not come to surrender again.
The emperor thought it was reasonable and told the prefect of Wuwei not to accept Bei Shanyu's envoy.
In the twenty-eighth year, the Northern Huns once again sent envoys to the court, presenting horses and furs, begging for marriage again, and asking for music from the Han Dynasty. They also asked the Hu people from various countries in the west city to come together to pay tribute and worship. The emperor handed the matter over to the Sangong Mansion to discuss the matter of payment and reply.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
司徒掾班彪奏曰：臣闻孝宣皇帝敕边守尉曰； 匈奴大国，多变诈。
交接得其情，则却敌折冲；应对入其数，则反为轻欺。
今北匈奴见南单于来附，惧谋其国，故数乞和亲，又远驱牛、马与汉合市，重遣名王，多所贡献。斯皆外示富强，以相欺诞也。
臣见其献益重，知其国益虚，归亲愈数，为惧愈多。
然今既未获助南，则亦不宜绝北，靶縻之义，礼无不答。
谓可颇加赏赐，略与所献相当，明加晓告以前世呼韩邪、郅支行事。
报答之辞，令必有适，今立稿草并上，曰： 单于不忘汉恩，追念先祖旧约，欲修和亲，以辅身安国，计议甚高，为单于嘉之。
translation: 
Situ Peng wrote to Ban Biao, saying: I heard that Emperor Xiaoxuan ordered the generals guarding the border to say: The Xiongnu is a big country, full of changes and deceptions.
If you interact appropriately, you can win the negotiation; if you fall into their scheme, you will be despised and bullied by them in turn.
Now when the Northern Xiongnu saw that the Southern Danyu had come to surrender, they were afraid that we would plot against them, so they begged for peace many times, brought cattle and horses from far away to do business with the Han, and repeatedly dispatched famous princes and paid many tributes. These were all used to show their wealth and strength to the outside world and to deceive us.
The more I saw that the Xiongnu contributed more, the more empty the Xiongnu country became, and the more urgent the Xiongnu's request for surrender and closeness became, and the more powerful their fear became.
However, since it is unable to help the south, it is not appropriate to cut off contact with the north. According to the principle of Huairou, Yu Lishu cannot leave without reply.
The minister thought that he could give them some rewards, which were roughly equivalent to the value of what they had given, so he publicly informed them of the results of the actions of Huhanxie and Zhizhi of the previous generations.
The wording of your reply must be appropriate. Now submit the drafted manuscript together and say: The Chanyu has not forgotten the kindness of the Han, recalled the old alliance with his ancestors, and plans to establish peace with the Han in order to assist himself and stabilize the country. His strategy is very clever, and we express our appreciation for the Chanyu.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
往者，匈奴数有乖乱，呼韩邪、郅支自相仇隙，并蒙孝宣皇帝垂恩救护，故各遣侍子称籓保塞。
其后郅支忿戾，自绝皇泽；而呼韩附亲，忠孝弥著。
及汉灭郅支，遂保国传嗣，子孙相继。
今南单于携众南向，款塞归命。
自以呼韩嫡长，次第当立，而侵夺失职，猜疑相背，数请兵将，归扫北庭，策谋纷纭，无所不至。
惟念斯言不可独听，又以北单于比年贡献，欲修和亲，故拒而未许，将以成单于忠孝之义。
汉秉威信，总率万国，日月所照，皆为臣妾。
殊俗百蛮，义无亲疏，服顺者褒赏，畔逆者诛罚，善恶之效，呼韩、郅支是也。
translation: 
In the past, the Xiongnu rebelled many times, and Huhanxie and Zhizhi hated each other. They were both rescued and protected by Emperor Xiaoxuan, so each of them sent their sons to serve in the court and guard the borders in the name of the vassal state.
After that, Zhizhi was resentful and rebellious, cutting off the favor of the court. However, he returned to Han and became closer to him, and his loyalty and filial piety became more and more obvious.
By the time the Zhi branch was eliminated in the Han Dynasty, the Huhan family finally preserved the country and passed on the throne to their descendants, who inherited the throne from each other.
Now Nan Danyu led his troops to submit to the south and returned to the desert.
He thought that Huhan was the legitimate eldest son and should be established as a Chanyu in order. Instead, he was deprived of his position and was suspected of betraying him. He repeatedly asked Mo to send troops to send troops to wipe out Beidan in the royal court. All kinds of strategies were put forward.
The imperial court considered that it could not accept one-sided words, and because Northern Danyu had paid tribute in consecutive years and wanted to establish a peace marriage, it rejected Southern Danyu's request without agreeing, in order to fulfill Shanyu's idea of ​​loyalty and filial piety.
The Han Dynasty ruled all the nations with its might and faith. As long as the moon shined, all the people there were the concubines of Mo.
Many barbarians with different customs have no moral distinction between closeness and alienation. Those who obey and submit will be praised and rewarded, and those who betray and disobey will be punished with elimination. The consequences of good deeds and evil deeds are as follows: Huhanxie and Zhizhi are examples.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
今单于欲修和亲，款诚已达，何嫌而欲率西域诸国俱来献见？
西域国属匈奴，与属汉何异？
单于数连兵乱，国内虚耗，贡物裁以通礼，何必献马裘？
今赍杂缯五百匹，弓鞬韥丸一，矢四发，遣遗单于。
又赐献马左骨都侯、右谷蠡王杂缯各四百匹，斩马剑各一。
单于前言先帝时所赐呼韩邪竽、瑟、空侯皆败，愿复栽赐。
念单于国尚未安，方厉武节，以战攻为务，竽瑟之用，不如良弓利剑，故未以赍。
朕不爱小物，于单于使宜所欲，遣驿以闻。
帝悉纳从之。
二十九年，赐南单于羊数万头。
三十一年，北匈奴复遣使如前，乃玺书报答，赐以彩缯，不遣使者。
单于比立九年薨，中郎将段郴将兵赴吊，祭以酒米，分兵卫护之。
比弟左贤王莫立，帝遣使者赍玺书镇慰，拜授玺绶，遗冠帻，绛单衣三袭，童子佩刀、绲带各一，又赐缯彩四千匹，令赏赐诸王、骨都侯已下。
translation: 
Now that Chanyu wants to make peace and has expressed his sincerity, why is he suspicious and wants to lead all the countries in the Western Region to pay tribute and meet with him?
The countries in the Western Regions belong to the Xiongnu, what is the difference between those belonging to the Han?
Chanyu had many military revolts in succession, and the country was depleted of money. The tributes were only enough to pay for courtesy, so why offer horses and furs?
Now send someone to bring five hundred pieces of colorful silk, a set of bow and arrow collection equipment, and four arrows to give to Shanyu.
He also gave each of Zuo Guduhou and You Guli King who presented the horse four hundred pieces of colorful silk and a horse-killing sword.
Shan Yu mentioned earlier that the yu, se, and konghou given to Hu Hanxie by the late emperor have been damaged, and he hopes to be rewarded again.
Considering that Shanyu's country has not yet stabilized, he is practicing martial arts, and his top priority is to attack and fight. The Yuse is not as useful as a good bow and sword, so he did not bring it with him.
I am not begrudging the Shanyu with small items, but consider that what I want is suitable for the time, and the messenger informs the Shanyu of the situation.
The emperor adopted all Ban Biao's opinions.
In the twenty-ninth year, tens of thousands of sheep were given to Nandanyu.
In the thirty-first year, the Northern Huns sent envoys again as before. The emperor replied to Shanyu with a seal, giving him colored silk and silk, but did not send an envoy.
When Bi Liwei Chan passed away nine years later, Duan Chen, the general of Zhonglang, led his troops to express his condolences, offered wine and rice as a memorial, and assigned troops to protect the southern Xiongnu.
Bi's younger brother, King Zuoxian, was appointed as a chanyu. The emperor sent an envoy with a seal to comfort him. He was given a seal and ribbon, a crown and a turban, three sets of crimson single clothes, a child's knife and a webbing. He also gave him four thousand pieces of colored silk, which were given to officials below the king and Guduhou.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
其后单于薨，吊祭慰赐，以此为常。
丘浮尤鞮单于莫，中元元年立，一年薨，弟汗立。
伊伐于虑鞮单于汗，中元二年立。
永平二年，北匈奴护于丘率众千余人来降。
南部单于汗立二年薨，单于比之子立。
僮尸逐侯鞮单于，永平二年立。
五年冬，北匈奴六七千骑入于五原塞，遂寇云中，至原阳。南单于击却之，西河长史马襄赴救，虏乃引去。
单于立四年薨，单于莫子苏立，是为丘除车林鞮单于。
敏月复薨，单于之弟长立。
胡邪尸逐侯鞮单于长，永平六年立。
时北匈奴犹盛，数寇边，朝廷以为忧。
会北单于欲合市，遣使求和亲，显宗冀其交通，不复为寇，乃许之。
translation: 
From then on, whenever the Shanyu passed away, it was a common practice for the Han Dynasty to pay condolences, pay homage, offer condolences and reward him.
Qiu Fuyou Qian Shanyu Mo succeeded to the throne in the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty and died a year later. His younger brother Khan established him as Shanyu.
Yifa Yu considered Qian Chanyu Khan and established him as Chanyu in the second year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty.
In the second year of Yonghu, the Northern Xiongnu guard Yuqiu led more than a thousand people to surrender.
Shanyu Khan in the south died after reigning for two years, and Shanyubi's son succeeded him.
Ai Tong's corpse chased Hou Qian Shan Yu Shi, who was established as a Shan Yu in the second year of Cheng Nuo.
In the winter of the fifth year, Li Bao and his six or seven thousand cavalry entered Huyuan Fortress, then invaded Yunsheng and attacked Yuanxing, but were repulsed by Nan Shanyu. You returned to Changshi District Fortress to rush to rescue, and the enemy Cao Cao retreated.
Chanyu Shi died in the fourth year of his reign, and Chanyu's son Mo Li became a Chanyu in his tomb, which was Qiu Chuchelin Qian Chanyu.
A few months later, Kuan died again, and Shanyu Shi's younger brother Changli became Shanyu.
Hu Xie's corpse chased the marquis Qian Chanyu to grow up, and he was established as a Chanyu in the sixth year of Yongping.
At that time, the Northern Huns were still powerful and invaded the border many times, which made the court worried.
It happened that Beidan Yu wanted to do business and sent envoys to request peace. Xianzong hoped to have contact with them and not invade again, so he agreed to the peace.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
八年，遣越骑司马郑众北使报命，而南部须卜骨都侯等知汉与北虏交使，怀嫌怨欲畔，密因北使，令遣兵迎之。
郑众出塞，疑有异，伺候果得须卜使人，乃上言宜更置大将，以防二虏交通。
由是始置度辽营，以中郎将吴棠行度辽将军事，副校尉来苗、左校尉阎章、右校尉张国将黎阳虎牙营士，屯五原曼柏。
又遣骑都尉秦彭将兵屯美稷。
其年秋，北虏果遣二千骑候望朔方，作马革船，欲度迎南部畔者，以汉有备，乃引去。
复数寇抄边郡，焚烧城邑，杀略甚众，河西城门昼闭，帝患之。
十六年，乃大发缘边兵，遣诸将四道出塞，北征匈奴。
translation: 
In the eighth year, Xianzong sent Yueqi Sima Zheng Zhong as an envoy to the north as a return visit. However, Xubu Guduhou and others in the south knew that the Han and the enemy in the north sent envoys to each other. They must be suspicious and resentful, and planned to rebel. They secretly asked the Northern Huns to send troops to welcome them through the envoys of the Northern Huns.
Zheng Zhong went out of the fortress, suspecting that the situation had changed, and secretly conducted reconnaissance and indeed caught Xu Bu's envoy, so he wrote a letter saying that it was best to reset the generals to prevent the two captives from the north and the south from colluding.
From then on, the Du Liao military camp was set up, and the Zhonglang general Wu Tang was also in charge of the affairs of the Du Liao general. He appointed deputy colonel Lai Miao, left colonel Yan Zhang, and right colonel Zhang Guo to lead the soldiers of Liyang's Huya Camp to garrison in Wuyuan Manbai.
He also sent Qin Peng, the Cavalry Commander, to lead his troops to garrison in Meiji.
In the autumn of this year, the enemy in the north sent 2,000 cavalry to reconnoiter Shuofang, and they made boats out of horse hides, hoping to pick up the rebels in the south. Because the Han were on guard, they retreated with their troops.
They invaded and plundered border counties many times, and set fire to the cities. They killed and took many people captive. The city gates in Hexi were closed during the day. The emperor was very worried.
In the sixteenth year, the emperor mobilized troops from the border counties on a large scale and sent generals out of the fortress in four directions to conquer the Huns in the north.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
南单于遣左贤王信随太仆祭肜及吴棠出朔方高阙，攻皋林温禺犊王于涿邪山。
虏闻汉兵来，悉度漠去。肜、棠坐不至涿邪山免，以骑都尉来苗行度辽将军。
其年，北匈奴入云中，遂至渔阳，太守廉范击却之。
诏遣使者高弘发三郡兵追之，无所得。
建初元年，来苗迁济阴太守，以征西将军耿秉行度辽将军。
时皋林温禺犊王复将众还居涿邪山，南单于闻知，遣轻骑与缘边郡及乌桓兵出塞击之，斩首数百级，降者三四千人。
其年，南部苦蝗，大饥，肃宗禀给其贫人三万余口。
七年，耿秉迁执金吾，以张掖太守邓鸿行度辽将军。
八年，北匈奴三木楼訾大人稽留斯等，率三万八千人、马二万匹、牛、羊十余万，款五原塞降。
元和元年，武威太守孟云上言北单于复愿与吏人合市，诏书听云遣驿使迎呼慰纳之。
北单于乃遣大且渠伊莫訾王等，驱牛、马万余头来与汉贾客交易。
诸王大人或前至，所在郡县为设官邸，赏赐待遇之。
南单于闻，乃遣轻骑出上郡，遮略生口，抄掠牛、马，驱还入塞。
二年正月，北匈奴大人车利、涿兵等亡来入塞，凡七十三辈。
时北虏衰耗，党众离畔，南部攻其前，丁零寇其后，鲜卑击其左，西域侵其右，不复自立，乃远引而去。
单于长立二十三年薨，单于汗之子宣立。
伊屠於闾鞮单于宣，元和二年立。
其岁，单于遣兵千余人猎至涿邪山，卒与北虏温禺犊王遇，因战，获其首级而还。
冬，孟云上言： 北虏以前既和亲，而南部复往抄掠，北单于谓汉欺之，谋欲犯塞，谓宜还南所掠生口，以慰安其意。
translation: 
Nan Shanyu sent Zuoxian Wang Xin to follow Taifu Jixi and Wu Tang out of Gaoque in Shuofang to attack Gaolin Wenyudu King in Zhuoxie Mountain.
When the enemy captives learned that the Han army was coming, they all fled across the desert. Ji Xu and Wu Tang were convicted and dismissed because they did not arrive at Zhuoxie Mountain. The imperial court appointed the Cavalry Captain to come to Miao and capture the generals of Liao.
This year, the Northern Xiongnu entered Yunzhong and then arrived at Yuyang. The prefect Lian Fan repelled the enemy.
The emperor issued an edict and sent the envoy Gao Hong to recruit troops from three counties to pursue them, but found nothing.
In the first year of Jianchu's reign, Lai Miao was transferred to the post of prefect of Jiyin, and the imperial court appointed Geng Bing, the general who conquered the west, to also take charge of the general of Liao.
At that time, King Wenyu Du of Gaolin led his troops back to live in Zhuoxie Mountain. After learning about it, Nan Shanyu sent light cavalry and troops from border counties and Wuhuan to attack Lai Miao, killing hundreds of people and surrendering three to four thousand people.
This year, the southern Huns were suffering from locusts and there was a severe famine. Suzong provided food relief to more than 30,000 poor people in the south.
In the seventh year, Geng Bing was transferred to Jinwu, and the imperial court appointed Deng Hong, the governor of Zhangye, and the general of Liao Dynasty.
In the eighth year, Jiliusi, the leader of Sanmulouzi of the Northern Huns, and others led 38,000 people, 20,000 horses, and more than 100,000 cattle and sheep, and surrendered at the Wuyuan border gate.
In the first year of Yuanhe, Meng Yun, the prefect of Wuwei, wrote a letter saying that Bei Shanyu wanted to gather with officials and people for trade again. The emperor wrote to Shao Shu and asked Meng Yun to send post envoys to greet and express condolences to those who accepted Bei Shanyu.
So Beidan sent King Daqiequyi Mozi and others to drive more than 10,000 cattle and horses to trade with Han merchants.
From time to time, princes and leaders would come, and the counties where they went would prepare official residences for them and give them rewards and preferential treatment.
After Nan Danyu learned about it, he sent light cavalry from Shangjun to intercept and plunder the population, plunder cattle and horses, and drive them into the fortress.
In the first month of the second year, the Northern Huns leaders Cheli, Zhuo Bing and others fled into the fortress, a total of seventy-three cases.
At that time, the enemies in the north were weak and depleted, and their tribes rebelled. The Xiongnu in the south attacked in the front, Ding Ling invaded their rear, Xianbei attacked on the left, and the Western Regions invaded on the right. The Northern Huns were unable to stand on their own and had to retreat far away.
Shanyu Chang died in the 23rd year of his reign, and Shanyu Khan's son Xuan succeeded to the throne.
Yitu Yulu Qiandan Yuxuan, succeeded to the throne in the second year of Yuanhe.
One year later, Shanyu sent more than a thousand soldiers to hunt. When they arrived at Zhuoxie Mountain, they suddenly met King Wenyu Du in the north. The two sides fought and returned with the head of King Wenyu Du.
In winter, Meng Yun wrote a letter saying: The enemy captives in the north had made peace with each other before, but they went to plunder them in the south again. The northern Shanyu thought that the Han had deceived them, and discussed attacking the border fortress. I thought it would be best to return the people plundered from the south to the north, so as to give them psychological comfort.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
肃宗从太仆袁安议，许之。
乃下诏曰： 昔猃狁、獯粥之敌中国，其所由来尚矣。
往者虽有和亲之名，终无丝发之效。
墝埆之人，屡婴涂炭。父战于前，子死于后。
弱女乘于亭障，孤兒号于道路。
老母寡妻设虚祭，饮泣泪，想望归魂于沙漠之表，岂不哀哉！
传曰： 江海所以能长百川者，以其下之也。
少加屈下，尚何足病？
况今与匈奴君臣分定，辞顺约明，贡献累至，岂宜违信，自受其曲？
其敕度辽及领中郎将庞奋倍雇南部所得生口，以还北虏。
其南部斩首获生，计功受赏如常科。
于是南单于复令薁鞮日逐王师子将轻骑数千出塞掩击北虏，复斩获千人。
北虏众以南部为汉所厚，又闻取降者岁数千人。
translation: 
Suzong adopted the opinion of his servant Yuan An and agreed to Meng Yun's petition.
So the emperor issued an edict saying: In the past, Miao and Maochou were hostile to the great powers of the Central Plains. They have been at war with each other for a long time.
Although there was a name for marriage in the past, it had no effect at all in the end.
The people living in dangerous places suffered many hardships. The father fought in the front and the son died in the back.
Weak women boarded the sentry box at the border fortress, while children who lost their parents cried on the roadside.
Isn't it sad that an old mother and a widowed wife make false sacrifices, swallow their tears, and long for the return of their souls outside the desert?
Book legend: The reason why the Yangtze River and Dahai can become the leaders of all rivers is because the Yangtze River and Dahai are lower than other rivers.
What is there to think of as a shame in being humbled a little?
What's more, now that the status of monarch and minister with the Xiongnu has been determined, the Xiongnu obeyed their words, made clear their oaths, and sent tribute many times. How can we violate our faith and act as the wrong side?
General Du Liao and General Pang Fen were ordered to return double the number of prisoners taken from the south to the north.
When people in the south killed northern captives and captured prisoners, they were still rewarded according to their merits as usual.
So Nan Shanyu ordered the prince of Dian Ta to lead thousands of light cavalry out of the fortress to attack the enemy in the north, and killed and captured a thousand people.
The enemies in the north believed that the south was treated favorably by the Han, and they also heard that thousands of people were captured and surrendered every year.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
章和元年，鲜卑入左地击北匈奴，大破之，斩优留单于，取其匈奴皮而还。
北庭大乱，屈兰、储卑、胡都须等五十八部，口二十万，胜兵八千人，诣云中、五原、朔方、北地降。
单于宣立三年薨，单于长之弟屯屠何立。
休兰尸逐侯鞮单于屯屠何，章和二年立。
畤北虏大乱，加以饥蝗，降者前后而至。
南单于将并北庭，会肃宗崩，窦太后临朝。
其年七月，单于上言：臣累世蒙恩，不可胜数。
孝章皇帝圣思远虑，遂欲见成就，故令乌桓、鲜卑讨北虏，斩单于首级，破坏其国。
今所新降虚渠等诣臣自言： 去岁三月中发虏庭，北单于创刈南兵，又畏丁令、鲜卑、遁逃远去，依安侯河西。
今年正月，骨都侯等复共立单于异母兄右贤王为单于，其人以兄弟争立，并各离散。
translation: 
In the first year of Zhanghe, Xianbei entered the left area to attack the Northern Huns, defeated the Northern Huns, killed Youliu Chanyu, stripped off the Chanyu's belt and returned.
There was a great rebellion in Yuting in Beidan. Fifty-eight tribes including Qu Lan, Chu Bei and Hu Duxu, with a population of 200,000, of which 8,000 were able to serve as soldiers, surrendered in Yunzhong, Wuyuan, Shuofang and Beidi.
Chan Yuxuan died in the third year of his reign, and Chan Yu Chang's younger brother Tuntu He established him as Chan Yu.
Xiulan's corpse was chased by the marquis and Shanyu was stationed in Tuen to slaughter He. Zhanghe succeeded to the throne in the second year of his reign.
At that time, there was great chaos among the enemies in the north. Coupled with locusts and hunger, people continued to come to surrender.
Nandanyu was preparing to annex Beidanyu Ting, but just when Suzong died, Empress Dowager Dou exercised the power of the emperor.
In July of this year, Shan Yu wrote a letter saying: The kindness I have received from the court from generation to generation is incalculable.
Emperor Xiaozhang had far-reaching plans and wanted to establish great achievements, so he ordered Wuhuan and Xianbei to attack the enemies in the north, cut off the heads of the Chanyus, and attack and destroy their country.
Xu Qu and others, who had just surrendered, came to the court and said: Last year in mid-March, they attacked the Beilu King's Court. The Bei Shanyu was severely wounded by the southern army. He was afraid of Ding Ling and Xianbei, so he fled far away and relied on the west bank of the Anhou River.
In the first month of this year, Marquis Gudu and others jointly established the Chanyu's half-brother, King Youxian, as the Chanyu. The people in the north all fell apart because of the brothers' competition for the position of Chanyu.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
臣与诸王骨都侯及新降渠帅杂议方略，皆曰宜及北虏分争，出兵讨伐，破北成南，并为一国，令汉家长无北念。
又今月八日，新降右须日逐鲜堂轻从虏庭远来诣臣，言北虏诸部多欲内顾，但耻自发遣，故未有至者。
若出兵奔击，必有响应。
今年不往，恐复并壹。
臣伏念先父归汉以来，被蒙覆载，严塞明侯，大兵拥护，积四十年。
臣等生长汉地，开口仰食，岁时赏赐，动辄亿万，虽垂拱安枕，惭无报效之地。
愿发国中及诸部故胡、新降精兵，遣左谷蠡王师子、左呼衍日逐王须訾将万骑出朔方，左贤王安国、右大且渠王交勒苏将万骑出居延，期十二月同会虏地。
臣将余兵万人屯五原、朔方塞，以为拒守。
臣素愚浅，又兵众单少，不足以防内外。
愿遣执金吾耿秉、度辽将军邓鸿及西河、云中、五原、朔方、上郡太守并力而北，令北地、安定太守各屯要害，冀因圣帝威神，一举平定。
臣国成败，要在今年。
已敕诸部严兵马，讫九月龙祠，悉集河上。
唯陛下裁哀省察！
translation: 
The ministers discussed strategies with the kings, Gudu lords, and the leaders who had just surrendered. They all agreed that we should take advantage of the division and struggle among the enemies in the north, send troops to attack, defeat the north, complete the south, and merge into one country, so that the Mo family would never have to worry about the north.
On the eighth day of this month, Yousuzuri Zhuxantang, who had just surrendered, came all the way from Beidan Yuting to surrender to his ministers. He said that most of the enemy tribes in the north wanted to submit to the imperial court, but they were ashamed to defect to themselves, so no one came.
If you send troops to attack quickly, someone will definitely respond.
If we don't send troops this year, I'm afraid they will become one again.
I consider that since my late father fled to the desert, he has been favored by the court and has strictly guarded the border for us, set up scouts, and sent a large army to protect us for forty years.
I grew up in the Han Dynasty, where I could eat food as soon as I opened my mouth, and the rewards I received throughout the year were often measured in hundreds of millions. Although I dropped my clothes and fell asleep peacefully, I was ashamed that I did not repay the favor and serve the court according to righteousness.
The minister is willing to recruit elite troops from the country and the tribes that were originally from the Hu people and have just surrendered. He sends Wang Shizi of Guli on the left and Xuzi, king of Rizhu on the left, to lead more than 10,000 cavalry from Shuofang. King Anguo of the left and King Jiaolesu of Daqiequ on the right lead 10,000 cavalry to set off from Juyan, agreeing to meet up with the Northern Huns in December.
The minister led the remaining 10,000 troops to garrison Wuyuan and Shuofang border gates as resistance and defense.
The minister has always been ignorant and shallow, and coupled with the lack of troops, he is not enough to defend internal and external defenses.
It is hoped that the imperial court will send Jinwu Geng Bing, General Deng Hong of the Liao Dynasty, and the prefects of Xihe, Yunzhong, Wuyuan, Shuofang, and Shangjun to join forces in the northern expedition, so that the Beidi prefect and the Anding prefect can respectively garrison key places. It is hoped that with the power of the Shengming Emperor, the northern part can be pacified in one fell swoop.
The victory or defeat of my country will basically be this year.
I have ordered all the ministries to organize their troops and horses, and when the time comes to worship the gods in September, they will all gather on the bank of the Yellow River.
I hope Your Majesty will understand your grief and judge it!


Chunk 16: 
original: 
太后以示耿秉。
秉上言： 昔武帝单极天下，欲臣虏匈奴，未遇天时，事逐无成，宣帝之世，会呼韩来降，故边人获安，中外为一；生人休息，六十余年。
及王莽篡位，变更其号，耗扰不止，单于乃畔。
光武受命，复怀纳之，缘边坏郡得以还复。
乌桓、鲜卑，咸胁归义。威镇四夷，其效如此。
今幸遭天授，北虏分争，以夷伐夷，国家之利，宜可听许。
秉因自陈受恩，分当出命效用。
太后从之。
永元元年，以秉为征西将军，与车骑将军窦宪率骑八千，与度辽兵及南单于众三万骑，出朔方击北虏，大破之。
北单于奔走，首虏二十余万人。
事已具《窦宪传》。
二年春，邓鸿迁大鸿户，以定襄太守皇甫棱行度辽将军。
translation: 
The Queen Mother showed Shan Yu's memorial to Geng Bing.
Geng Bingjin said: In the past, Emperor Wu used all the power in the world to make the Xiongnu surrender, but he did not catch the right opportunity, and the matter ultimately failed. During the reign of Emperor Xuan, Hu Hanxie came to surrender, so the people on the border were at peace and became one family inside and outside, and the people were able to recuperate and live for more than sixty years.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, changed the title of the Xiongnu, endlessly consumed and harassed them, Shan Yu sent his talents to betray them.
Guangwu accepted the destiny and appeased and accepted the Xiongnu, so that the destroyed counties along the border were restored.
Both Wuhuan and Xianbei wanted to submit to Deyi, and they shocked the barbarians everywhere, and their effect reached such a state.
Now we are fortunate to have a God-given opportunity. The enemies in the north are divided and fighting each other. Using barbarians to attack barbarians is beneficial to the country, so we should agree.
Geng Bing went on to say that he had been favored and should devote himself to the country.
The Queen Mother agreed to his request.
In the first year of Yongyuan, Geng Bing was appointed as the general to conquer the west. He and the cavalry general Dou Xian led 8,000 cavalry, plus 30,000 cavalry from the troops of General Du Liao and the tribe of Shanyu in the south. They went out from Shuofang to attack the northern enemies and defeated the Huns.
Bei Shanyu escaped, and more than 200,000 people were captured.
The matter has been recorded in detail in "The Biography of Dou Xian".
In the spring of the second year, Deng Hong was promoted to Da Honglu, and the imperial court appointed Huangfuleng, the governor of Dingxiang, to also take charge of the general of Liao.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
南单于复上求灭北庭，于是遣左谷蠡王师子等将左右部八千骑出鸡鹿塞，中郎将耿谭遣从事将护之。
至涿邪山，乃留辎重，分为二部，各引轻兵两道袭之。
左部北过西海至河云北，右部从匈奴河水西绕天山，南度甘微河，二军俱会，夜围北单于。
单于大惊，率精兵千余人合战。
单于被创，堕马复上，将轻骑数十遁走，仅而免脱。
得其玉玺，获阏氏及男女五人，斩首八千级，生虏数千口而还。
是时南部连克获纳降，党众最盛，领户三万四千，口二十三万七千三百，胜兵五万一百七十。故事：中郎将置从事二人，耿谭以新降者多，上增从事十二人。
三年，北单于复为右校尉耿夔所破，逃亡不知所在。
其弟右谷蠡王於降鞬自立为单于，将右温禺鞬王、骨都侯已下众数千人，止蒲类海，遣使款塞。
大将军窦宪上书，立於除鞬为北单于，朝廷从之。
四年，遣耿夔即授玺绶，赐玉剑四具，羽盖一驷，使中郎将任尚持节卫护屯伊吾，如南单于故事。
方欲辅归北庭，会窦宪被诛。
五年，於除鞬自畔还北，帝遣将兵长史王辅以千余骑与任尚共追，诱将还斩之。破灭其众。
单于屯屠何立六年薨，单于宣弟安国立。
单于安国，永远五年立。
translation: 
The Southern Danyu also wrote a letter requesting the destruction of the Northern Danyu Ting, so he sent Zuo Guli Wang Shizi and others to lead eight thousand cavalry from the left and right to leave the country from Elu Pass. Zhonglang sent Geng Tan to guard the Southern Xiongnu army.
When they arrived at Zhuoxie Mountain, they left behind their baggage and divided them into two groups, each leading light troops to attack in two directions.
The left arm went north through the West Sea to the north of Heyun, and the right arm bypassed the Tianshan Mountains from the west of the Xiongnu River and crossed the Ganwei River to the south. The two armies met and surrounded Bei Shanyu at night.
Beidan was shocked and led more than a thousand elite troops to fight.
Shanyu was injured and fell off his horse, but he mounted his horse again and led dozens of cavalry to escape lightly, but he could only escape.
Obtaining the jade seal from Chanyu, he captured Ban and his five sons and daughters, killed eight thousand people, and brought back several thousand prisoners.
At that time, the south was victorious, captured prisoners, and accepted those who surrendered. Therefore, the tribe was the most powerful. It controlled 34,000 households, with a population of 237,300 people. There were 50,170 people capable of serving as soldiers. As usual, the general Zhonglang had two officers under him. Because there were many new surrenders, Geng Tan wrote a letter requesting that the number be increased to 12.
Three years later, Bei Shanyu was defeated again by Geng Kui, the right commander, and fled to an unknown place.
His younger brother Yu Longzhan, King of Youguli, established himself as a chanyu and led several thousand tribesmen under King Youwen of Yuta and Guduhou. They lived in Puleihai and sent envoys to knock on the pass to submit.
General Dou Xian wrote a letter requesting that he be established as the northern chanyu in addition to Tartar, and the imperial court adopted this opinion.
In the fourth year, he sent Geng Kui to confer the seal ribbon to Shanyu, and rewarded him with four jade swords, a carriage with four horses, and a hood decorated with green feathers. Like the old practice of the Southern Danyu, he sent the Zhonglang General Ren Shang to hold Fu Jie to garrison Yiwu and protect the Northern Shanyu.
Just as he was about to help Shan Yu return to Beidan Yuting, Dou Xian was killed.
In the fifth year, Yu Chutar rebelled and returned to the north. The emperor sent General Shi Yuyan and more than a thousand cavalry to pursue him together with Ren Shang. They lured Yu Chutar back and killed him, wiping out his tribe.
Chan Yutun Tuhe died in the sixth year of his reign, and Chan Yu Xuan's younger brother An Guo succeeded to the throne.
Shanyu Anguo was established as Shanyu in the fifth year of Yongyuan.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
安国初为左贤王而无称誉。
左谷蠡王师子素勇黠多知，前单于宣及屯屠何皆爱其气决，故数遣将兵出塞，掩击北庭，还受赏赐，天子亦加殊异。
是以国中尽敬师子，而不附安国。
安国由是疾师子，欲杀之。
其诸新降胡初在塞外，数为师子所驱掠，皆多怨之。
安国因是委计降者，与同谋议。
安国既立为单于，师子以次转为左贤王，觉单于与新降者有谋，乃别居五原界。
单于每龙会议事，师子辄称病不往。
皇甫棱知之，亦拥护不遣，单于怀愤益甚。
六年春，皇甫棱免，以执金吾朱徽行度辽将军。
时单于与中郎将杜崇不相平，乃上书告崇，崇讽西河太守令断单于章，无由自闻。
而崇因与朱徽上言： 南单于安国疏远故胡，亲近新降，欲杀左贤王师子及左台且渠刘利等。
translation: 
Anguo initially served as King Zuoxian but was not praised by others.
Prince Zuo Guli has always been brave, intelligent and resourceful. Both his predecessors, Shan Yuxuan and Tuntu He, liked his boldness and courage, so they sent him to lead troops out of the fortress to attack Beidan Yuting many times. When he came back, he was rewarded, and the emperor also looked at him differently.
Therefore, people in the country respect Shizi and do not join Anguo.
Anguo was jealous of his master and wanted to kill him.
Those Hu people who had just surrendered were driven and looted many times by their masters when they were outside the fortress, and most of them resented their masters.
Anguo therefore appointed the people who had surrendered to conspire with them.
An Guo had been established as Chanyu, and his master was changed to King Zuoxian in order. He found out that Chanyu had a conspiracy with the people who had just surrendered, so he lived on the border of Wuyuan.
Every time Shanyu would gather in Longting to discuss matters, his master always excused himself from going because he was sick.
After Huangfuleng found out, he also protected him and refused to send him, which made Shanyu even more resentful.
In the spring of the sixth year, Huangfuleng was removed from his post, and the imperial court appointed Zhu Hui, the commander-in-chief of Jinwu, and the general of Liao Dynasty.
At that time, the Chanyu was at odds with Du Chong, the general of Zhonglang, so he wrote to Du Chong. Du Chong hinted to the governor of Xihe and asked him to withhold the memorial from the Chanyu so that he could not let the court hear his opinions.
Du Chong took the opportunity to write to Zhu Hui, saying: Nandan Yu Anguo alienated the original Hu people and became close to the people who had just surrendered. He wanted to kill Zuo Xian Wang Shizi, Zuotai Qiequ Liu Li and others.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
又右部降者谋共迫胁安国，起兵背畔，诸西河、上郡、安定为之儆备。
和帝下公卿议，皆以为 蛮夷反覆，虽难测知，然大兵聚会，必未敢动摇。
今宜遣有方略使者之单于庭，与杜崇、朱徽及西河太守并力，观其动静。
如无它变，可令崇等就安国会其左右大臣，责其部众横暴为边害者，共平罪诛。
若不从命，令为权时方略，事毕之后，裁行客赐，亦足以威示百蛮 。
帝从之。
于是徽、崇遂发兵造其庭。
安国夜闻汉军至，大惊，弃帐而去，因举兵及将新降者欲诛师子。
师子先知，乃悉将庐落入曼柏城。
安国追到城下，门闭不得入。
朱徽遣吏晓譬和之，安国不听。
城既不下，乃引兵屯五原。
translation: 
Moreover, those who surrendered on the right planned to coerce Anguo to rebel, and asked Xihe, Shangjun, and Anding to take precautions.
Emperor He handed the memorial to the ministers for discussion. Everyone believed that the barbarians were capricious. Although it was difficult to predict and know, they would not dare to move when the army was gathered.
Now it is best to send a strategic envoy to Shan Yuting to join forces with Du Chong, Zhu Hui and the prefect of Xihe to observe his movements.
If there are no other changes, you can order Du Chong and others to go to Anguo, summon the ministers around Shanyu, blame the brutal people among Shanyu's tribe who harmed the border, and jointly review their crimes.
If they are unwilling to obey, ask Du Chong and others to adopt a contingency method. After the matter is over, they will consider giving rewards based on the etiquette of host and guest. This can also show prestige to the barbarians.
The emperor adopted this opinion.
So Zhu Hui and Du Chong sent troops to Shan Yuting.
When Anguo Yehuo heard that the Han army had arrived, he was shocked. He left his tent and left. He then led his army and the Hu people who had just surrendered to kill his master.
The master learned about it in advance and led the entire tribe into Manbai City.
Anguo chased him to the city gate, but the city gate was closed and he could not enter the city.
Zhu Hui sent officials to inform Anguo to reconcile with them, but Anguo ignored them.
Since Manbai City could not be captured, Anguo led his troops to garrison Wuyuan.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
崇、徽因发诸郡骑追赴之急，众皆大恐，安国舅骨都侯喜为等虑并被诛，乃格杀安国。
安国立一年，单于之子师子立。
亭独尸逐侯鞮单于师子，永元六年立。
降胡五六百人夜袭师子，安集掾王恬将卫护士与战，破之。
于是新降胡遂相惊动，十五部二十余万人皆反畔，胁立前单于屯屠何子薁鞬日逐王逢侯为单于，遂杀略吏人，燔烧邮亭庐帐，将车重向朔方，欲度漠北。
于是遣行车骑将军邓鸿、越骑校尉冯柱、行度辽将军朱徽将左右羽林、北军五校士及郡国积射、缘边兵，乌桓校尉任尚将乌桓、鲜卑，合四万人讨之。
时南单于及中郎将杜崇屯牧师城，逢侯将万余骑攻围之，未下。
冬，邓鸿等至美稷，逢侯乃乘冰度隘，向满夷谷。
南单于遣子将万骑，及杜崇所领四千骑，与邓鸿等追击逢侯于大城塞，斩首三千余级，得生口及降者万余人。
冯柱复分兵追击其别部，斩首四千余级。
任尚率鲜卑大都护苏拔、乌桓大人勿柯八千骑，要击逢侯于满夷谷，复大破之。
前后凡斩万七千余级。
逢侯遂率众出塞，汉兵不能追。
translation: 
Du Chong and Zhu Hui therefore mobilized cavalry from various counties to pursue Anguo. They pursued Anguo very closely. Anguo's tribe was very panicked. Anguo's uncle Hou Xiwei and others were worried that they would be killed together, so they killed Anguo.
Anguo reigned for one year, and Shan Yushi's son Shizi succeeded him.
Tingdu's corpse chased Hou Qianchanyu's master and made him a Chanyu in the sixth year of Yongyuan.
Five or six hundred Hu who surrendered attacked the master at night. Wang Tian of Anjitun led the soldiers guarding Shanyu to fight with them and defeated them.
The newly-surrendered Hu people in Japan alerted each other, and more than 200,000 people in the fifteen tribes rebelled. They forced Dian Ta, the son of his predecessor Chanyu, to station Tuen Tuhe, and expelled King Fenghou as Chanyu. Then they killed and plundered officials and people, burned down the posthouses and tents, and marched towards Shuofang with their baggage, intending to cross the desert north.
The imperial court then sent General Deng Hong of the Chariot and Cavalry, Lieutenant of the Yue Cavalry School Feng Zhu, and General Zhu Hui of the Liao Dynasty to lead the Yulin Army on the left and right, soldiers from the Five Schools of the Northern Army, pursuit troops from the prefectures, and troops from border counties, and Wuhuan Colonel Ren Shang led the troops of Wuhuan and Xianbei, totaling 40,000 people, to attack the rebels.
At that time, Nan Danyu and Zhonglang General Du Chong were stationed in the Priest City. Feng Hou led more than 10,000 cavalry to attack and surround the Priest City and could not capture it.
In winter, Deng Hong and others arrived at Meiji, and Fenghou crossed the dangerous point on the ice and retreated to Manyi Valley.
Nan Danyu sent his son to lead 10,000 cavalry and Du Chong's 4,000 cavalry, together with Deng Hong and others, to pursue Fenghou in the big city fortress, killing more than 3,000 people, and capturing more than 10,000 people or surrendering.
Feng Zhu divided his troops to pursue Fenghou's other tribes, killing more than 4,000 people.
Ren Shang led the eight thousand cavalry of the Xianbei capital guard Su Bamo and the Wuhuan leader Wu Ke to intercept Fenghou in the Manyi Valley, and once again defeated the enemy.
A total of more than 17,000 enemies were killed before and after.
Fenghou then led his troops out of the fortress, but the Han army could not catch up.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
七年正月，军还。
冯柱将虎牙营留屯五原，罢遣鲜卑、乌桓、羌胡兵、封苏拔为率众王，又赐金、帛。
邓鸿还京师，坐逗留失利，下狱死。后帝知朱徽、杜崇失胡和，又禁其上书，以致反畔，皆征下狱死，以雁门太守庞奋行度辽将军。
逢侯于塞外分为二部，自领右部，屯涿邪山下。左部屯朔方西北，相去数百里。
八年冬，左部胡自相疑畔，还入朔方塞，庞奋迎受，慰纳之。
其胜兵四千人，弱小万余口，悉降，以分处北边诸郡。
南单于以其右温禺犊王乌居战始与安国同谋，欲考问之。乌居战将数千人遂复反畔，出塞外山谷间，为吏民害。
秋，庞奋、冯柱与诸郡兵击乌居战，其众降，于是徙乌居战众及诸还降者二万余人于安定、北地。
translation: 
In the first month of the seventh year, the army reorganized.
Feng Zhu led the Huya Camp to stay in Wuyuan, dismissed the troops of Xianbei, Wuhuan, and Qianghu, and named Su Bamo the king of the army, and rewarded him with gold and silk.
Deng Hong returned to the capital, but lost his chance of fighting because of his stay, and was imprisoned to death. Later, the emperor learned that Zhu Hui, Du Chong, and the Hu people were at odds with each other, and prevented the Shanyu from writing a letter, which caused the Shanyu to rebel. They were all recruited to the capital, where they died in prison. The imperial court appointed Pang Fen, the governor of Yanmen, to also serve as the general of the Liao Dynasty.
Feng Hou divided his troops into two groups outside the country. He himself commanded the right group to station at the foot of Zhuoxie Mountain, and the left group to station in the northwest of Shuofang. The two groups were several hundred miles apart.
In the winter of the eighth year, the Hu people on the left became suspicious of each other and betrayed each other. When they returned to Shuofang Fortress, Pang Fen greeted them, expressed condolences and accepted them.
Among them, 4,000 were able to fight, and more than 10,000 were weak and young. All of them surrendered, and the court placed them in various counties on the northern border.
Nandanyu initially conspired with Anguo because Wu Juzhan, the king of Yudu in Youwen, wanted to torture Wu Juzhan. Therefore, Wu Juzhan led thousands of people to rebel again and fled to Juquan outside the Great Wall into the Zuotai Valley, harming officials and people.
In autumn, Pang Fen, Feng Zhu and troops from various counties attacked Ujuzhan, and Ujuzhan's tribe surrendered. So they moved Ujuzhan's tribe and more than 20,000 other people who surrendered to Anding and Beidi.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
冯柱还，迁将作大匠。
逢侯部众饥穷，又为鲜卑所击，无所归，窜逃入塞者骆驿不绝。
单于师子立四年薨，单于长之子檀立。
万氏尸逐鞮单于檀，永元十年立。
十二年，庞奋迁河南尹，以朔方太守王彪行度辽将军。
南单于比岁遣兵击逢侯，多所虏获，收还生口前后以千数，逢侯转困迫。
十六年，北单于遣使诣阙贡献，愿和亲，修呼韩邪故约。
和帝以其旧礼不备，未许之，而厚加赏赐，不答其使。
元兴元年，重遣使诣敦煌贡献，辞以国贫未能备礼，愿请大使，当遣子入侍。
时邓太后临朝，亦不答其使，但加赐而已。
永初三年夏，汉人韩琮随南单于入朝，既还，说南单于云： 关东水潦，人民饥饿死尽，可击也。
translation: 
After Feng Zhu came back, he was promoted to general master craftsman.
Fenghou's tribe was hungry and impoverished, and was attacked by Xianbei. They were desperate and many people fled into the fortress, Luo Yi.
Master Shanzi passed away four years after his reign, and Shan Yuchang's son Tan succeeded him.
Wan's corpse was chased by Qian Chanyu Tan, and he was established as Chanyu in the tenth year of Yongyuan.
In the twelfth year, Pang Fen was transferred to Henan Yin, and the imperial court appointed Wang Biao, the prefect of Shuofang, to also take charge of the general of Liao.
Nan Danyu sent troops to attack Fenghou for several consecutive years, and obtained many prisoners and other things. The number of people recovered successively was calculated in thousands, and Fenghou became more and more embarrassed.
In the 16th year, Northern Shanyu sent envoys to the court to pay tribute, hoping to make peace and conclude the old alliance with Huhanxie.
Emperor He did not agree because he did not have the courtesy in the past, but he gave Beidan Yu many rewards and did not send an envoy in return.
In the first year of Yuanxing, Beidan sent envoys to Dunhuang to offer gifts. He said that the country was poor and could not prepare sufficient gifts. He hoped that the imperial court would send an ambassador and he would send his son to serve in the imperial court.
At that time, Empress Dowager Deng was in charge of the imperial court and did not respond to Bei Shanyu's envoys. She only gave rewards.
In the summer of the third year of Yongchu, Han Cong, a Han Chinese, followed Nan Danyu into the court. After returning, he persuaded Nan Danyu that there was a big flood in Guandong and all the people were starving to death. We could take the opportunity to attack.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
单于信其言，遂起兵反畔，攻中郎将耿种于美稷。
秋，王彪卒。冬，遣行车骑将军何熙、副中郎将庞雄击之。
四年春，檀遣千余骑寇常山、中山，以西域校尉梁行度辽将军，与辽东太守耿夔击破之。
事已具《》、《夔传》。
单于见诸军并进，大恐怖，顾让韩琮曰： 汝言汉人死尽，今是何等人也？
乃遣使乞降，许之。
单于脱帽徒跣，对庞雄等拜，陈道死罪。
于是赦之，遇待如初，乃还所抄汉民男女及羌所略转卖入匈奴中者，合万余人。
五年，梁免，以云中太守耿夔行度辽将军。
无初元年，夔免，以乌桓校尉邓遵为度辽将军。
遵，皇太后之从弟，故始为真将军焉。
四年，逢侯为鲜卑所破，部众分散，皆归北虏。
五年春，逢侯将百余骑亡还，诣朔方塞降，邓遵奏徙逢侯于颍川郡。
建光元年，邓遵免，复以耿夔代为度辽将军。
时鲜卑冠边，夔与温禺犊王呼尤徽将新降者连年出塞，讨击鲜卑。
translation: 
The Chanyu believed what he said and sent troops to rebel and attack Zhonglang General Geng Zhong in Meiji. In autumn, Wang Biao passed away.
In winter, the imperial court sent the chariot general He Xi and the deputy lieutenant general Pang Xiong to attack Shanyu.
In the spring of the fourth year, Tan sent more than a thousand cavalry to invade Changshan and Zhongshan. The imperial court appointed Liang Dong, the captain of the Western Regions, who also took charge of the Liao general, and Geng Kui, the Liaodong prefect, defeated the enemy.
The incident has been recorded in detail in "The Biography of Liang Dao" and "The Biography of Geng Kui".
Chanyu was horrified when he saw the Han army advancing from all directions at the same time. He turned around and asked Han Cong: You said that all the Han people were dead. Where did they come from?
So he sent an envoy to beg for surrender, and the Han army agreed.
The Chanyu took off his hat, barefooted, and knelt before Pang Xiong and others, saying that he had committed a capital crime.
The imperial court then pardoned the Chanyu and treated him as before. The Chanyu returned to the Han more than 10,000 Han men and women who had been captured by the Qiang and those Han who had been captured by the Qiang and sold to the Xiongnu.
In the fifth year, Liang Dong was dismissed from his official position, and the imperial court appointed Geng Kui, the governor of Yunzhong, to also serve as the general of Liao Dynasty.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, Geng Kui was removed from his post, and the imperial court appointed Wuhuan captain Deng Zun as the general of the Liao Dynasty.
Deng Zun was the cousin of the Empress Dowager, so he became the real general of Du Liao.
In the fourth year, Fenghou was defeated by Xianbei and his tribe dispersed, all defecting to the north.
In the spring of the fifth year, Fenghou led more than a hundred cavalry to escape and surrendered at Shuofang Border Pass. Zheng Zun submitted a letter to move Fenghou to Yingchuan County.
In the first year of Jianguang's reign, Deng Zun was dismissed from his position, and Geng Kui was once again replaced by Geng Kui as the general of Du Liao.
At that time, Xianbei invaded the border. Geng Kui and Wen Yudu King Huyouhui led the people who had just surrendered to the border to conquer Xianbei.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
还，复各令屯列冲要。
而耿夔征发烦剧，新降者皆悉恨谋畔。
单于檀立二十七年薨，弟拔立。
耿夔复免，以太原太守法度代为将军。
乌稽侯尸逐鞮单于拔。延光三年立。
夏，新降一部大人阿族等遂反畔，胁呼尤徽欲与俱去。呼尤徽曰： 我老矣，受汉家恩，宁死不能相随！
众欲杀之，有救者，得免。
阿族等遂将妻子辎重亡去，中郎将马翼遣兵与胡骑追击，破之，斩首及自投河死者殆尽，获马、牛、羊万余头。
冬，法度卒。
四年，汉阳太守傅众代为将军。
其冬，傅众复卒。
永建元年，以辽东太守庞参代为将军。
先是，朔方以西障塞多不修复，鲜卑因此数冠南部，杀渐将王。
单于忧恐，上言求复障塞，顺帝从之。
translation: 
After the class, he ordered all ministries to guard dangerous places.
But Geng Kui frequently recruited these people, so the newly surrendered people were resentful and discussed rebellion.
Shanyu Tan died in the twenty-seventh year of his reign, and his younger brother promoted him to Shanyu.
Geng Kui was dismissed again, and the imperial court appointed Fadu, the Taiyuan prefect, to take over as the general of Liao.
The corpse of Wujihou was pulled out by the Chanyu, and he was established as the Chanyu in the third year of Yanguang.
In the summer, the leaders of the Azu and others who had just surrendered rebelled and threatened Hu Youhui to leave together. Hu Youhui said: I am old and have suffered the kindness of the Han. I would rather die than follow you!
Those people wanted to kill him, but someone rescued him, and Hu Youhui was saved from death.
The A tribe and others fled with their wives, children and baggage. Zhonglang sent Ma Yi troops and Hu cavalry to pursue the A tribe and defeated the A tribe. Almost all the A tribe's men and horses were killed or threw themselves into the river. More than 10,000 horses, cattle, and sheep were obtained.
In winter, Fadu died.
Four years later, Fu Zhong, the prefect of Hanyang, took over as general.
Fu Zhong died again this winter.
In the first year of Yongjian's reign, the imperial court appointed Pang Shen, the governor of Liaodong, to take over as general.
Before this, most of the fortresses west of Shuofang had not been repaired, so Xianbei invaded the south many times and killed King Jianjiang.
Worried and frightened, Chanyu wrote a letter asking for the restoration of the fortress, and Emperor Shun agreed.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
乃遣黎阳营兵出屯中山北界，增置缘边诸郡兵，列屯塞下，教习战射。
单于拔立四年薨，弟休利立。
去特若尸逐就单于休利，永建三年立。
四年，庞参迁大鸿胪，以东平相宋汉代为度辽将军。
阳嘉二年，汉迁太仆，以乌桓校尉耿晔代为度辽将军。
永和元年，晔病征，以护羌校尉马续代为度辽将军。
五年夏，南匈奴左部句龙王吾斯、车纽等背叛，率三千余骑寇西河，因复招诱右贤王，合七八千骑围美稷，杀朔方、代郡长史。
马续与中郎将梁并、乌桓校尉王元，发缘边兵及乌桓、鲜卑、羌胡，合二万余人，掩击破之。
吾斯等遂更屯聚，攻没城邑。
天子遣使责让单于，开以恩义，令相招降。
translation: 
So the imperial court sent troops from the Liyang Camp to garrison the northern border of Zhongshan, added troops to the border counties, stationed troops at the border fortress, and taught the soldiers to practice fighting and archery.
Shan Yuba died in his fourth year on the throne and was succeeded by his younger brother Hugh Li.
If you go to Te Ruo Shi, you will be the Chanyu Xiuli. In the third year of Yongjian's reign, you will be established as the Chanyu.
In four years, Pang Shen was promoted to Da Honglu, and the imperial court appointed Shu Ping, Prime Minister of Song and Han Dynasties, to take over as the general of Liao Dynasty.
In the second year of Yangjia, the Song and Han Dynasties were promoted to imperial servants, and the imperial court appointed Wuhuan captain Geng Ye to take over as the general of Du Liao.
In the first year of Yonghe, Geng Ye was summoned by the imperial court due to illness, and Ma Xu, the Qiang guardian captain, took over as the general of Du Liao.
In the summer of the fifth year, Wu Si, Che Niu, king of Julong, and others from the left tribe of the Southern Xiongnu rebelled, leading more than 3,000 cavalry to invade Xihe. Then they invited King Xian of You, and a total of 7,8,000 cavalry surrounded Meiji, killing Shuofang and Daijun's long history.
Ma Xu, Zhonglang General Liang Bing, and Wuhuan Colonel Wang Yuan mobilized border troops as well as Wuhuan, Xianbei, and Qianghu troops. The total number of troops was more than 20,000. They took the enemy by surprise, attacked and defeated them.
Wu Si and others then regrouped and captured the city.
The emperor sent an envoy to rebuke the Chanyu, proclaiming his kindness and faith, and asking the Chanyu to recruit the rebels to surrender.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
单于本不豫谋，乃脱帽避帐，诣并谢罪。
并以病征，五原太守陈龟代为中郎将。
龟以单于不能制下，逼迫之，单于及其弟左贤王皆自杀。
单于林利立十三年。
龟又欲徙单于近亲于内郡，而降者遂更狐疑。
龟坐下狱免。
大将军梁商以羌胡新反，党众初合，难以兵服，宜用招降，乃上表曰： 匈奴寇畔，自知罪极。穷鸟困兽，皆知救死，况种类繁炽，不可单尽。今转运日增，三军疲苦，虚内给外，非中国之利。
窃见度辽将军马续素有谋谟，且典边日久，深晓兵要，每得续书，与臣策合。
宜令续深沟高壁，以恩信招降，宣示购赏，明其期约。
如此，则丑类可服，国家无事矣。
translation: 
Shanyu did not participate in the plan. He took off his hat, gave up his tent, and went to Liang Bing to plead guilty.
Because Liang Bing was recruited, Chen Gui, the governor of Wuyuan, took over as Zhonglang General.
Chen Gui believed that Chanyu failed to manage his subordinates well, so he forced Chanyu, and both Chanyu and his younger brother King Zuo Xian committed suicide.
Shanyu Xiuli reigned for thirteen years.
Chen Gui also wanted to move Shan Yu's close relatives to inland counties, so the people who surrendered became even more suspicious.
Chen Gui was imprisoned and removed from his post.
General Liang Shang believed that the Qiang and Hu had recently rebelled and their followers had just gathered, making it difficult to subdue them with force. It was best to use the method of surrender, so he submitted a memorial saying: The Huns invaded and rebelled, knowing that they had committed a capital crime. When the birds and animals were desperate, they all knew to save their own lives. Moreover, the Xiongnu race was multiplying and prosperous, and it was impossible for them all to be wiped out. Now the grain transshipment is increasing day by day, and the three armies are tired and toiled, leaving the country empty and using it abroad, which is not good for the Central Plains.
I saw that Ma Xu, the general of the Liao Dynasty, had always been strategic, and had been in charge of the border for a long time. He was deeply familiar with the essence of military affairs. Every time he received a letter from Ma Xu, he agreed with my strategy.
It is best to order the horses to dig deeper trenches, raise the barriers, use kindness and faith to recruit the Huns to surrender, publicly offer rewards, and explain the matters we jointly abide by.
In this way, these races can be brought into submission, and the country will be safe.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
帝从之，乃诏续招降畔虏。
商又移书续等曰： 中国安宁，忘战日久。
良骑野合，交锋接矢，决胜当时，戎狄之所长，而中国之所短也。
强弩乘城，坚营固守，以待其衰，中国之所长，而戎狄之所短也。
宜务先所长，以观其变，设购开赏，宣示反悔，勿贪小功，以乱大谋。
续及诸郡并各遵行。
于是右贤王部抑鞮等万三千口诣续降。
秋，句龙吾斯等立句龙王车纽为单于。
东引乌桓，西收羌戎及诸胡等数万人，攻破京兆虎牙营，杀上郡都尉及军司马，遂寇掠并、凉、幽、冀四州。
乃徙西河治离石，上郡治夏阳，朔方治五原。
translation: 
The emperor adopted his opinion and issued an edict asking Ma Xu to recruit and surrender the rebellious Huns.
Liang Shang wrote another letter to Ma Xu and others, saying: The Central Plains is stable, and we have forgotten the war for a long time.
Excellent cavalry meet in the wild, fight with swords, connect arrows, and decide the outcome at the moment. This is what Rong Di is good at but it is the shortcoming of the soldiers of the Central Plains.
Using powerful crossbows, climbing over city walls, holding on with strong fortifications, and waiting for the enemy to weaken were the strengths of the Central Plains soldiers but the shortcomings of Rong Di.
You should first try your best to use your own strengths to observe the changes in the opponent, set up bounties and public rewards, declare to the Huns that they can repent, and do not covet small achievements and destroy the big strategy.
Ma Xu and all the counties followed Liang Shang's words.
In this way, King Youxian's subordinate Yi Ta and other 13,000 people came to surrender to Ma Xu.
In autumn, Julongwusi and others established Julongwang Cheniu as the chanyu.
Wu Si went to the east to attract Wuhuan, and to the west he gathered Qiang Rong and various tribes of Hu people, with a total of tens of thousands of people. He defeated the Huya Camp in Jingzhao, killed the captains and army commanders in Shangjun, and then invaded and plundered Bingzhou, Liangzhou, Youzhou, and Jizhou.
So the imperial court moved the prefecture of Xihe to Lishi, the prefecture of Shangjun to Xiayang, and the prefecture of Shuofang to Wuyuan.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
冬，遣中郎将张耽将幽州乌桓诸郡营兵，击畔虏车纽等，战于马邑，斩首三千级，获生口及兵器、牛、羊甚众。
车纽等将诸豪帅骨都侯乞降，而吾斯犹率其部曲与乌桓寇抄。
六年春，马续率鲜卑五千骑到穀城击之，斩首数百级。
张耽性勇锐，而善抚士卒，军中皆为用命。
遂绳索相悬，上通天山，大破乌桓，悉斩其渠帅，还得汉民，获其畜生财物。
夏，马续复免，以城门校尉吴武代为将军。
汉安元年秋，吾斯与薁鞮台耆、且渠伯德等复掠部。
呼兰若尸逐就单于兜楼储先在京师，汉安二年立之。
天子临轩，大鸿胪持节拜授玺绶，引上殿。
赐青盖驾驷、鼓车、安车、驸马骑、玉具刀剑、什物，给彩布二千匹。
赐单于阏氏以下金锦错杂具，軿车马二乘。
translation: 
In the winter, he sent Zhonglang General Zhang Dan to lead Wuhuan's troops in Youzhou and troops from various county barracks to attack the rebels Che Niu and others. They fought in Mayi and killed 3,000 enemies, capturing a large number of people, weapons, cattle and sheep.
Che Niu and others led the leaders of various tribes and Guduhou to beg for surrender, but Wusi still led his tribe and Wuhuan troops to invade the border and plunder.
In the spring of the sixth year, Ma Xu led 5,000 Xianbei cavalry to Gucheng to attack Wusi, killing hundreds of people.
Zhang Dan was brave and courageous by nature, and he was good at caring for soldiers, so the soldiers in the army were willing to sacrifice their lives for him.
They were connected with ropes, suspended from each other, and climbed over the Tianshan Mountains. They defeated Wuhuan, killed all their main leaders, recaptured the people of the Han Dynasty, and obtained a lot of livestock and property.
In the summer, Ma Xu was dismissed again, and the imperial court appointed Wu Wu, the captain of Chengmen School, to take over as general.
In the autumn of the first year of Han'an, Wusi, Dianqiantaiqi, Qiequbode and others looted the Bingzhou area again.
Hu Lanruo's body was expelled from the Chanyu Douluo Chu before he was in the capital, and he was established as a Chanyu in the second year of Mo'an.
The emperor came to the palace in person, and Dahong held the talisman to pay homage to Shanyu and lead him to the palace.
The emperor gave Chanyu a carriage with a green hood and four horses, a drum carriage, a small carriage that could be sat on, horses for the auxiliary carriage, handles, swords made of white jade, and various sundries, and gave him two thousand pieces of colorful silk.
Gold, colorful silks and various utensils were given to people below the Pi family of Shanyu, as well as two shielded carriages and horses for women to ride on.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
遣行中郎将持节护送单于归南庭。
诏太常、大鸿胪与诸国侍子于广阳城门外祖会，飨赐作乐，角抵百戏。
顺帝幸胡桃宫临观之。
冬，中郎将马寔募刺杀句龙吾斯，送首洛阳。
建康元年，进击余党，斩首千二百级。
乌桓七十万余口皆诣寔降，车重、牛、羊，不可胜数。
单于兜楼储立五年薨。
伊陵尸逐就单于居车兒，建和元年立。
至永寿元年，匈奴左薁鞬台耆、且渠伯德等复畔，寇抄美稷、安定，属国都尉张奂击破降之。
事已具《奂传》。
延熹元年，南单于诸部并畔，遂与乌桓、鲜卑寇缘边九郡，以张奂为北中郎将讨之，单于诸部悉降。
奂以单于不能统理国事，乃拘之，上立左谷蠡王。
桓帝诏曰： 《春秋》大居正，居车一心向化，何罪而黜！
其遣还庭。
translation: 
He also sent a general named Xingzhonglang to escort Nandanyu back to Nandanyu's court.
The emperor issued an edict that Taichang, Dahonglu and the servants from various countries gather outside the gate of Guangyang to see him off, hold a banquet to reward them, perform songs and dances, and perform hundreds of operas with each other.
Emperor Shun came to Hutao Palace to watch.
In the winter, Zhonglang recruited people from Masai to assassinate Julong Wusi and sent his head to Luoyang.
In the first year of Jiankang, Mazai sent troops to attack Wusi's other associates, killing 1,200 of them.
More than 700,000 Wuhuan people came to surrender to the horse nest, bringing incalculable baggage, cattle and sheep.
Chanyu Doulou Chu died in his fifth year of reign.
The corpse of Yiling was expelled to the Chanyu Juche'er, and he was established as the Chanyu in the first year of Jianhe.
In the first year of Yongshou, the Xiongnu Zuo Dianqian Taiqi, Qiequ Bode and others rebelled again and invaded and plundered Meiji and Anding. Zhang Huan, the captain of the vassal state, defeated Taiqi and Bode and forced them to surrender.
The incident has been recorded in "The Biography of Zhang Huan".
In the first year of Yanxi, all the tribes of the Southern Shanyu rebelled, and then Wuhuan and Xianbei invaded the nine counties along the border. The court appointed Zhang Huan as Beizhonglang General to conquer the enemy, and all the tribes of the Shanyu surrendered.
Zhang Huan thought Shanzi was incapable of managing state affairs, so he imprisoned him and wrote a letter asking King Zuo Guli to be appointed Shanyu.
Emperor Huan wrote in Shao Shu: "Spring and Autumn" recommends following the right path. Ju Che'er surrendered wholeheartedly. What crime did he have to be deposed?
Hope to return him to Shan Yuting.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
单于居车立二十五年薨，子某立。
屠特若尸逐就单于某，熹平元年立。
六年，单于与中郎将臧出雁门击鲜卑檀石槐，大败而还。
是岁，单于薨，子呼徵立。
单于呼徵，光和元年立。
二年，中郎将张脩与单于不相能，脩擅斩之，更立右贤王羌渠为单于。
脩以不先请而擅诛杀，槛车征诣廷尉抵罪。
单于羌渠，光和二年立。
中平四年，前中山太守张纯反畔，遂率鲜卑寇边郡。
灵帝诏发南匈奴兵，配幽州牧刘虞讨之。
单于遣左贤王将骑诣幽州。国人恐单于发兵无已，五年，右部落与休著各胡白马铜等十余万人反，攻杀单于。
单于羌渠立十年，子右贤王於扶罗立。
持至尸逐侯单于於扶罗，中平五年立。国人杀其父者遂畔，共立须卜骨都侯为单于，而於扶罗诣阙自讼。
会灵帝崩，天下大乱，单于将数千骑与白波贼合兵寇河内诸郡。
translation: 
Shanyu Juche'er died in the twenty-fifth year of his reign, and his son succeeded him.
If Tu Teruo's body was expelled, he would become a Chanyu. In the first year of Xiping, he was established as a Chanyu.
In the sixth year, Shanyu and Zhonglang general Zang Man left Yanmen to attack Tanshihuai in Xianbei, but they returned with a heavy defeat.
One year after he was created, Shanyu died, and his son called Zheng to succeed him.
The Chanyu called for a campaign, and in the first year of Guanghe he was established as the Chanyu.
In the second year, Zhonglang's general Zhang Xiu could not get along with the Chanyu, so he killed Huzheng without authorization and appointed Qiangqu, the king of Youxian, as the Chanyu.
Because Zhang Xiu killed Shan Yu without asking for permission in advance, the court summoned him in a prison car to the court captain to receive punishment.
Chanyu Qiangqu, he was established as Chanyu in the second year of Guanghe.
In the fourth year of Zhongping, the former Zhongshan governor Zhang Chun rebelled, and then led the Xianbei troops to invade the border counties.
Emperor Ling issued an edict to mobilize the troops of the Southern Xiongnu and assigned them to Youzhou Mu Liu Yu to lead the attack on Zhang Chun.
Chanyu sent King Zuo Xian to lead the cavalry to Youzhou. The people in Youzhou were afraid of Chanyu's endless troops. In the fifth year of Zhongping, more than 100,000 people including Fuluo and Xiuzu of Youjun rebelled and attacked and killed Chanyu.
Shanyu Qiangqu reigned for ten years, and his son Youxian King Yufuluo succeeded to the throne.
Zhizhi drove the Shanyu to Fuluo, and in the fifth year of Zhongping, the people in the country rebelled, killed his father, and together they established Xubu Guduhou as the Shanyu. Yu Fuluo appealed to the court himself.
Just when Emperor Ling died and the world was in chaos, Chanyu led thousands of cavalry and Bai Bo bandits to invade various counties in Hanoi.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
时民皆保聚，抄掠无利，而兵遂挫伤。
复欲归国，国人不受，乃止河东。
须卜骨都侯为单于一年而死，南庭遂虚其位，以老王行国事。
单于於扶罗立七年死，弟呼厨泉立。
单于呼厨泉，兴平二年立。
以兄被逐，不得归国，数为鲜卑所抄。
建安元年，献帝自长安东归，右贤王去卑与白波贼帅韩暹等待卫天子，拒击李、郭汜。
及车驾还洛阳，又徙迁许，然后归国。
二十一年，单于来朝，曹操因留于鄴，而遣去卑归监其国焉。
论曰： 汉初遭冒顿凶黠，种众强炽。
高祖威加四海，而窘平城之围。
太宗政邻刑措，不雪愤辱之耻。
translation: 
At that time, the people gathered in crowds to defend themselves, but Xubu did not benefit from looting, and the troops were severely damaged.
Xu Bu wanted to return to his country again, but the people in the country would not accept it, so he had to live in Hedong.
Xubu Guduhou died after serving as Chanyu for one year. Therefore, the position of Chanyu was vacant in Nandan Yuting, and the old prince was in charge of domestic affairs.
Chanyu Yu Fuluo died in the seventh year of his reign, and his younger brother Huchuquan succeeded him.
Chanyu Huchuquan, established as Chanyu in the second year of Xingping.
Because his brother was expelled from Fuluo and could not return home, he was plundered by Xianbei many times.
In the first year of Jian'an, Emperor Xian returned east from Chang'an. King Youxian went to Bei and Baibo bandit commander Han Xian and others to protect the emperor and resist the attack of Li Cui and Guo Si.
When the emperor returned to Luoyang, he moved the capital to Xu County, and then returned to Bei.
In the 21st year, Shanyu came to worship. Cao Cao took the opportunity to leave him in Ye County and sent him to Bei Huiguo to manage the southern Xiongnu.
The argument goes: In the early Han Dynasty, when Mao Dun was cruel and cunning, the race became strong and prosperous.
Emperor Gaozu was powerful throughout the world, but he was besieged and embarrassed in Pingcheng.
Taizong was politically clean and punished appropriately. He did not wash away his shame or vent his anger.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
逮孝武亟兴边略，有志匈奴，赫然命将，戎旗星属，候列郊甸，火通甘泉，而犹鸣镝扬尘，出入畿内，至于穷竭武力，单用天财，历纪岁以攘之。
寇虽颇折，而汉之疲耗略相当矣。
宣帝值虏庭分争，呼韩邪来臣，乃权纳怀柔，因为边卫，罢关徼之儆，息兵民之劳。
龙驾帝服，鸣钟传鼓于清渭之上，南面而朝单于，朔、易无复匹马之踪，六十余年矣。
后王莽陵篡，犹动戎夷，续以更始之乱，方夏幅裂。
自是匈奴得志，狼心复生，乘间侵佚，害流傍境。
及中兴之初，更通旧好，报命连属，金币载道，而单于骄踞益横，内暴滋深。
世祖以用事诸华，未遑沙塞之外，忍愧思难，徒报谢而已。
因徒幽、并之民，增边屯之卒。
及关东稍定，陇、蜀已清，其猛夫扞将，莫不顿足攘手，争言卫、霍之事。
帝方厌兵，闲修文政，未之许也。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaowu repeatedly opened up the frontier, determined to attack the Huns, appointed generals vigorously, set battle flags like stars, and lined up waiting troops in the suburbs. The beacon fire went straight to Ganquan Palace. However, the Huns army still shot through the air with flying dust and entered and exited the border. Emperor Wu exhausted the country's military strength and exhausted the world's wealth. It took more than ten years to defeat the Huns.
Although the enemy invaders suffered heavy losses, Mo's fatigue and losses were roughly the same as those of the Huns.
Emperor Xuan caught up with the internal divisions and conflicts in the imperial court of the enemy, and Hu Hanxie came to surrender. So he accepted the Xiongnu and showed mercy to them. He used them to guard the border and removed the border guards so that the hard-working troops and people could rest.
Horses pulled the emperor's chariot, and bells and drums rang on the banks of the clear Wei River. The emperor faced south and accepted the worship of the Chanyu. There was no trace of the Huns cavalry in Shuofang and Yishui for more than sixty years.
Later, Wang Mang usurped the throne and disturbed the Rong and Yi. Then came the Gengshi Rebellion, and China was torn like silk.
Since then, the Huns have gained their ambition, and they have become greedy and vicious again. They take the opportunity to invade and attack, causing harm to the border.
In the early days of the ZTE, the Xiongnu continued their former friendship. Envoys continued to return visits, and there were often carriages and horses loaded with gold and silk on the road. However, the Chanyu was arrogant and arrogant, becoming more arrogant and invading the mainland more and more seriously.
Because Shizu was busy pacifying the Central Plains, he had no time to take care of the enemies in the desert and beyond the Great Wall, so he endured the shame and considered the danger and just wrote a letter to apologize to him.
Then the people of Youzhou and Bingzhou were moved to increase the number of troops stationed on the border.
When Guandong gradually calmed down and Long and Shu were at peace, those brave and powerful generals all stamped their feet on the ground, rolled up their sleeves and stretched out their arms, vying to comment on the affairs of Wei Qing and Huo Qubing.
The emperor was tired of fighting and took the time to rectify Wende, but he did not agree.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
其后匈奴争立，日逐来奔，愿修呼韩之好，以御北狄之中，奉籓称臣，永为外扞。
天子总揽群策，和而纳焉。
乃诏有司，开北鄙，择肥美之地，量水草以处之。
驰中郎之使，尽法度以临之。
制衣裳，备文物，加玺绂之绶，正单于之名。
于是匈奴分破，始有南北二庭焉。
仇衅既深，互同便隙，控弦抗戈，觇望风尘，云屯鸟散，更相驰突，至于陷溃创伤者，靡岁或宁，而汉之塞地晏然矣。
后亦颇为出师，并兵穷讨，命窦宪、耿夔之徒，前后并进，皆用果谲，设奇数，异道同会，究掩其窟穴，蹑北追奔三千余里，遂破龙祠，焚罽幕，坑十角，梏阏氏，铭功封石，倡呼而还。
单于震慑，屏气蒙氈，遁走于乌孙之地，而漠北空矣。
若因其时势，及其虚旷，还南虏于阴山，归西河干内地，上申光武权宜之略，下防戎羯乱华之变，使耿国之算不谬于当世，袁安之议见从于后王，平易正直，若此其弘也。
而窦宪矜三捷之效，忽经世之规，狼戾不端，专行威惠。遂复更立北虏，反其故庭，并恩两护，以私己福，弃蔑天公，坐树大鲠。
translation: 
In the future, the Xiongnu will compete for the position of Shanyu, and the king will come to submit. They are willing to form friendship like Huhanxie, block the main road of Beidi, and profess their vassal status in the name of vassal, promising to forever be a barrier to the Han Dynasty.
The emperor combined various strategies and accepted the king in a friendly manner.
So the emperor issued an edict to the relevant officials to open the northern border and select fertile land and places with water and grass for them to live.
He immediately sent General Zhonglang as an envoy to govern the Xiongnu with strict laws.
He made clothes for them, completed the rituals and music regulations, and gave the Chanyu seals and ribbons to establish his status.
So the Xiongnu split, and there were two royal courts, the north and the south.
The hatred between the north and the south was deep, so they would spy on each other's gaps, draw their bows and raise their weapons, detect each other's movements, gather like clouds, and disperse like crows, and attack each other quickly, to the point of defeat and defeat, causing heavy casualties. There was no peace for a year, but the border areas of Han Dynasty were all safe.
Later, he often sent troops to join forces to pursue the Xiongnu. He ordered Dou Xian, Geng Kui and others to advance at the same time. They all adopted bold and changeable strategies and formulated unexpected tactics. They divided their forces in several directions and tried their best to attack the enemy's lair. They chased the defeated and fleeing enemies for more than three thousand miles. Finally, they defeated the Xiongnu who held the Dragon Temple, burned their tents made of woolen fabrics, and buried the Xiongnu's ten horns. , detained Guan, carved stones to record his merits, and sang songs to cheer the class teacher.
The Chanyu was shocked and frightened, and did not dare to breathe. He fled to Wusun territory covered with blankets, and there was no trace of the Huns north of the desert.
If we take advantage of this opportunity and situation, take advantage of the Xiongnu emptiness, return the southern enemy captives to the Yinshan Mountains, and bring back the west of the Yellow River into the country, we can use Guangwu's expedient strategy, and we can prevent the Rongjie from bringing chaos to the Central Plains, so that Geng's strategy will not be vain in this world, and Yuan An's opinions can be adopted by future emperors.
However, Dou Xian was arrogant about his many victories, ignored the strategy of governing the world, was ruthless and unjust, and specialized in authority and favors, so he re-established the northern chanyu and let him return to his former royal court.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
永言前载，何恨愤之深乎！
自后经纶失方，畔服不一，其为毒，胡可单言！
降及后世，玩为常俗，终于吞噬神乡，丘墟帝宅。呜呼！
千里之差，兴自毫端，失得之源，百世不磨矣。
赞曰：匈奴既分，羽书稀闻。
野心难悔，终亦纷纭。
translation: 
There is still such deep resentment when it comes to things in the past!
From then on, due to improper planning, the Xiongnu sometimes betrayed and sometimes surrendered, and the harm caused by it cannot be overstated!
This continued to future generations and became a regular habit, eventually causing China to be engulfed and the imperial capital to be in ruins. Alas!
A difference of a thousand miles starts from a millimeter; the root cause of gains and losses cannot be eradicated for generations!
Zanri: Since Bao Chu is divided, important documents are seldom reported.
But his ambitions were hard to change and he eventually returned to a state of chaos.


