Summary uses chunk [0, 4, 9, 10, 1]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
蒯通，范阳人也，本与武帝同讳。
楚汉初起，武臣略定赵地，号武信君。
通说范阳令徐公曰： 臣，范阳百姓蒯通也，窃闵公之将死，故吊之。
虽然，贺公得通而生也。
徐公再拜曰： 何以吊之？
通曰： 足下为令十余年矣，杀人之父，孤人之子，断人之足，黥人之首，甚众。
慈父孝子所以不敢事刃于公之腹者，畏秦法也。
今天下大乱，秦政不施，然则慈父孝子将争接刃于公之腹，以复其怨而成其名。
此通之所以吊者也。 曰： 何以贺得子而生也？
曰： 赵武信君不知通不肖，使人候问其死生，通且见武信君而说之，曰： 必将战胜而后略地，攻得而后下城，臣窃以为殆矣。
用臣之计，毋战而略地，不攻而下城，传檄而千里定，可乎？
彼将曰： 何谓也？
臣因对曰： 范阳令宜整顿其士卒以守战者也，怯而畏死，贪而好富贵，故欲以其城先下君。
先下君而君不利之，则边地之城皆将相告曰 范阳令先降而身死 ，必将婴城固守，皆为金城汤池，不可攻也。
为君计者，莫若以黄屋朱轮迎范阳令，使驰骛于燕、赵之郊，则边城皆将相告曰 范阳令先下而身富贵 ，必相率而降，犹如阪上走丸也。
此臣所谓传檄而千里定者也。 徐公再拜，具车马遣通。
通遂以此说武臣。
武臣以车百乘、骑二百、侯印迎徐公。
燕、赵闻之，降者三十余城。如通策焉。
后汉将韩信虏魏王，破赵、代，降燕，定三国，引兵将东击齐。
未度平原，闻汉王使郦食其说下齐，信欲止。
通说信曰： 将军受诏击齐，而汉独发间使下齐，宁有诏止将军乎？
得以得无行！
且郦生一士，伏轼掉三寸舌，下齐七十余城，将军将数万之众，乃下赵五十余城。
translation: 
Kuai Tong, a native of Fanyang County, had the same name as Emperor Wu, Kuai Che.
When the Chu and Han Dynasties first emerged, Wu Chen attacked and pacified Fangdi, and was known as Wu Xinjun.
Kuai Tong lobbied Xu Gong, the magistrate of Fanyang County, and said: "I am a citizen of Fanyang, my name is Kuai Tong. I feel sorry for you that you are about to die, so I express my condolences."
Nevertheless, I congratulate you for having a chance to survive because of me, Kuai Tong.
Xu Gong thanked him repeatedly and asked: "Why do you express condolences?"
Kuai Tong said: You have been the county magistrate for more than ten years. You have killed other people's fathers, made other people's sons orphans, chopped off people's feet, and given people tattoos. Too many people have suffered.
The reason why loving fathers and filial sons dare not insert a knife into your belly is because they are afraid of the laws of the Qin Dynasty.
Now the world is in chaos, and the Qin Dynasty's decrees cannot be implemented. In this case, those loving fathers and filial sons will rush to stab you with bayonets in your belly to avenge you and achieve fame. This is the reason for my condolences.
Xu Gong asked again: "Why do you congratulate me on getting a husband and finding a way out?"
Kuai Tong replied: Lord Wu Xin who traveled to the country did not know that I was incompetent, so he sent people to inquire about his good or bad luck. Now I am going to meet and persuade him, and say to him: You must defeat the enemy before you gain the territory, and conquer the city before occupying it. I privately feel that it is very dangerous.
If you adopt my strategy, you will gain land without fighting, occupy the city without attacking, and be able to pacify thousands of miles by sending messages. Is this okay?
He will ask: What is your strategy?
I took the opportunity to reply: Magistrate Fan Yang should have organized his army, guarded the city, and resisted, but because he was cowardly and fearful of death, greedy and fond of wealth, he wanted to surrender the city to you first.
If he is the first to surrender to you and you do not give him any favors, then all the cities in the border areas will tell each other: The magistrate of Fanyang County was the first to surrender and was killed. We will definitely defend the city and it will be as difficult to capture as Jincheng Tangchi.
For your sake, it would be better to welcome Magistrate Fanyang with a yellow-covered and red-wheeled chariot, and let him ride on the border between Yan and Pang to show off. Then the cities on the border will tell each other: Magistrate Fanyang surrendered first and gained wealth. There will be a race to surrender, as easy as a mud ball rolling down a hillside.
Create what I call the strategy of pacifying Qianli by sending a message. , Xu Gong thanked him repeatedly and prepared carriages and horses to send Kuai Tong away.
Kuai Tong persuaded the military ministers with these words.
The military officials used a hundred chariots and two hundred cavalry to greet Duke Xu.
When Yan and Fang heard about this, more than thirty cities surrendered, just as expected by Kuai Tong's strategy.
Later, the Han general Han Xin captured the King of Wei, conquered Tiao and Dai, made Yan surrender, and pacified the three kingdoms one after another, and then led his troops eastward to attack Qi.
The army had not yet passed Pingyuan County. When I heard that Liu Bang, the king of Han, had sent Li Shiqi to persuade Qi to surrender, Han Xin wanted to stop the advance.
Kuai Tong lobbied Han Xin and said: General, you were ordered by the King of Han to attack the State of Qi, and the King of Han sent a separate envoy who was also a spy to persuade the State of Qi to surrender. Is there an edict ordering you to stop attacking?
Why not march?
Moreover, Mr. Li, as a scholar, rode there and persuaded more than 70 cities of Qi to surrender with his sharp tongue. General, you led tens of thousands of troops to capture more than 50 cities of Zhao.

summary:
summary line 0: Kuai Tong, a native of Fanyang, lobbied Xu Gong, the magistrate of Fanyang, during the Chu-Han conflict. He warned Xu Gong that his harsh rule had created many enemies, and with Qin laws no longer enforceable, he was in danger. Kuai Tong then proposed a plan to Wu Chen, Wu Xinjun: rather than attacking cities, he should welcome Xu Gong with honor to encourage other cities to surrender. Wu Chen followed this advice, and over thirty cities surrendered without battle. Later, Kuai Tong persuaded Han Xin to attack Qi despite Li Shiqi's diplomatic mission, arguing that military conquest would earn greater merit. Han Xin agreed, crossed the Yellow River, and defeated Qi, leading to Li Shiqi's execution. Kuai Tong later urged Han Xin to betray Liu Bang and create a tripartite balance of power, warning that Han Xin's achievements made him a threat to the Han king. Han Xin hesitated, citing Liu Bang's kindness, and declined. Kuai Tong, fearing retribution, feigned madness. After Han Xin's execution, Liu Bang summoned Kuai Tong, who defended himself by saying a dog barks at those not its master. Liu Bang pardoned him. Kuai Tong later served as a guest to Cao Shen, the prime minister of Qi, and recommended the reclusive scholars Shu Guo and Liang Shijun. He also wrote a book on lobbying strategies.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
乃见相国曰： 妇人有夫死三日而嫁者，有幽居守寡不出门者，足下即欲求妇，何取？
曰： 取不嫁者。
通曰： 然则求臣亦犹是也，彼东郭先生、梁石君，齐之俊士也，隐居不嫁，未尝卑节下意以求仕也。
愿足下使人礼之。
曹相国曰： 敬受命。
皆以为上宾。
通论战国时说士权变，亦自序其说，凡八十一首，号曰《隽永》。
初，通善齐人安其生，安其生尝干项羽，羽不能用其策。
而项羽欲封此两人，两人卒不肯受。
伍被，楚人也。
或言其先伍子胥后也。
被以材能称，为淮南中郎。
是时淮南王安好术学，折节下士，招致英隽以百数，被为冠首。
久之，淮南王阴有邪谋，被数微谏。
后王坐东宫，召被欲与计事，呼之曰： 将军上。
被曰： 王安得亡国之言乎？
昔子胥谏吴王，吴王不用，乃曰 臣今见麋鹿游姑苏之台也。 今臣亦将见宫中生荆棘，露沾衣也。
于是王怒，系被父母，囚之三月。
王复召被曰： 将军许寡人乎？
被曰： 不，臣将为大王画计耳。
臣闻陪者听于无声，明者见于未形，故圣人万举而万全。
文王壹动而功显万世，列为三王，所谓因天心以动作者也。
王曰： 方今汉庭治乎？
乱乎？ 被曰： 天下治。
王不说，曰： 公何言治也？
被对曰： 被窃观朝廷，君臣、父子、夫妇、长幼之序皆得其理，上之举错遵古之道，风俗纪纲未有所缺。
重装富贾周流天下，道无不通，交易之道行。
南越宾服，羌、僰贡献，东瓯入朝，广长榆，开朔方，匈奴折伤。
虽未及古太平时，然犹为治。
translation: 
So he went to see Cao Xiangguo and said: Some women remarry just three days after their husbands die, while some women would rather live in seclusion and remain widowed. If you want to marry a daughter-in-law, which one will you choose?
Cao Xiangguo said: I will marry the one who doesn't want to get married.
Kuai Tong said: Then, the same should be done when seeking ministers. Mr. Shuguo and Liang Shijun were virtuous and handsome men of Qi State. They lived in seclusion in the mountains and forests. They did not want to get married and never came out to seek official positions.
I hope you will send someone to treat me with courtesy.
Cao Xiangguo said: I respectfully accept your order.
Treat both of them as distinguished guests.
Kuai Tong discussed the contingency techniques of lobbyists during the Warring States Period, also added his own comments, and wrote a book called "Juan Yong".
At the beginning, Kuai Tong had a good relationship with Qiren An Qisheng. An Qisheng once made suggestions for Xiang Yu, but Xiang Yu could not adopt them.
Xiang Yu wanted to give Kuai Tong and An Qisheng titles and fiefs, but these two were always unwilling to accept them.
Wu Bei, a native of Chu.
Some people say that his ancestor is a descendant of Wu Zixu.
Wu Bei became famous for his talents and served as a lieutenant in Huainan Kingdom.
At that time, the king of Huainan, Liu An, loved academics and was devoted to the virtuous. He recruited hundreds of handsome and learned people, and Wu was ranked first.
After a long time, the king of Huainan conspired to rebel, and Wu was admonished privately many times.
Later, the King of Huainan was sitting in Shu Palace and summoned Wu Bei to discuss matters with him. He called: General, please come forward.
Wu was asked: Where did the king get the words of subjugation?
Once upon a time, Wu Zixu advised the king of Wu, but the king did not accept it. Wu Zixu said: "Now I see elk roaming on the Gusu platform, and now I will also see thorns growing in the palace, and dew soaking the skirts of my clothes."
So the King of Huainan was very angry and detained Wu Bei's parents and imprisoned them for three months.
The king of Huainan summoned Wu Yuan again and said, "General, have you listened to me?"
Wu Bei said: No! I will advise you, your Majesty.
I heard that smart people are wise and can predict things before they appear, so the saints are foolproof when doing things.
King Wen of Zhou's actions made him famous in later generations, and he was listed as the second king. Creation means that he should act in accordance with the heart of heaven.
King Huainan asked: Is the Han Dynasty now stable or chaotic?
Wu was said: The world is safe and sound.
King Huainan said unhappily: "Why do you say that the world is stable?"
Wu Bei replied: I have privately observed that the relationship between the emperor and his ministers, father and son, husband and wife, elder and younger are all orderly and reasonable. Everything the emperor does follows the way of the ancient sage kings. The customs are honest and the rules and regulations are perfect.
Wealthy merchants traveled around the world carrying large amounts of goods in their vehicles. Roads were open to all directions and trade was very prosperous.
South Vietnam surrendered, Qiang and Fen paid tribute and became ministers, and Shu Ou entered the court to pay homage to the emperor. Expanding Changyusai and expanding Shuofang County, the Huns suffered setbacks and were severely weakened.
Although it cannot keep up with the peaceful and prosperous times of ancient times, it is still safe and sound.

summary:
summary line 1: Wu Bei, a descendant of Wu Zixu, served as a lieutenant in Huainan under King Liu An. When the king plotted rebellion, Wu Bei repeatedly admonished him, arguing that the Han dynasty was stable and prosperous, with orderly governance, thriving trade, and subdued enemies. The king dismissed this, citing the Qin collapse as precedent. Wu Bei countered that Qin's tyranny had caused widespread suffering, while the Han emperor ruled with benevolence and had popular support. He warned that rebellion would fail, as the king's forces were weak and the times were peaceful. The king ignored him and proceeded with plans, but the conspiracy was discovered. Wu Bei surrendered and confessed, but was executed despite his earlier praise of Han, as Zhang Tang argued his initial role in planning the rebellion was unforgivable.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
于是贵戚子弟惶恐，皆见上叩头求哀，愿得入钱赎罪。
上许之，令各以秩次输钱北军，凡数千万。
上以充忠直，奉法不阿，所言中意。
充出，逢馆陶长公主行驰道中。充呵问之，公主曰： 有太后诏。
充曰： 独公主得行，车骑皆不得。
尽劾没入宫。
后充从上甘泉，逢太子家使乘车马行驰道中，充以属吏。
太子闻之，使人谢充曰： 非爱车马，诚不欲令上闻之，以教敕亡素者。
唯江君宽之！
充不听，遂白奏。
上曰： 人臣当如是矣。
大见信用，威震京师。
迁为水衡都尉，宗族、知友多得其力者。
久之，坐法免。
会阳陵朱安世告丞相公孙贺子太仆敬声为巫蛊事，连及阳石、诸邑公主，贺父子皆坐诛。
语在《贺传》。
后上幸甘泉，疾病，充见上年老，恐晏驾后为太子所诛，因是为奸，奏言上疾祟在巫蛊。
于是上以充为使者治巫蛊。
充将胡巫掘地求偶人，捕蛊及夜祠，视鬼，染污令有处，辄收捕验治，烧铁钳灼，强服之。
民转相诬以巫蛊，吏辄劾以大逆亡道，坐而死者前后数万人。
是时，上春秋高，疑左右皆为蛊祝诅，有与亡，莫敢讼其冤者。
充既知上意，因言宫中有蛊气，先治后宫希幸夫人，以次及皇后，遂掘蛊于太子宫，得桐木人。
太子惧，不能自明，收充，自临斩之。
骂曰 赵虏！
translation: 
So the sons of these dignitaries and relatives were very frightened, and they all went to see the emperor, kowtowed and begged for mercy, and were willing to pay money to atone for their sins.
Emperor Wu agreed to their request and ordered them to hand over the money to the Northern Army according to their official levels, totaling tens of millions of dollars.
Emperor Wu believed that Jiang Chong was loyal and upright, and enforced the law without favoritism, and was very satisfied with his suggestions.
When Jiang Chong came out for inspection, he met Princess Guantao riding a car on Chidao. Jiang Chong stopped her and asked why. The princess said: "I am allowed to walk on Chidao under the order of the Queen Mother."
Jiang Chong said: "Only the princess is allowed to walk on the horse road, and the accompanying carriages and horses are not allowed to pass."
All the accompanying carriages and horses were reported and confiscated.
Later, Jiang Chong followed Emperor Wu to Ganquan Palace. When he saw the envoy sent by the prince to greet the emperor in a carriage walking on the road, Jiang Chong detained the envoy.
When the prince heard about this, he sent someone to apologize to Jiang Chong and said: It's not that I begrudge the carriages and horses, but I really don't want the emperor to hear about this, thinking that I usually don't discipline my subordinates.
I hope Mr. Jiang can forgive this.
Jiang Chong refused to listen and finally reported to Emperor Wu.
Emperor Wu said: This is what ministers should do.
As a result, Jiang Chong gained great credibility and became a powerful figure in the capital.
Jiang Chong was promoted to Captain Shuiheng, and many of his family and friends received help from him.
After a long time, he was dismissed from office because of his crime.
It happened that Zhu Anshi of Yangling reported that Prime Minister Gongsun He's son and Grand Servant Gongsun Jingsheng had cursed the emperor with witchcraft, which implicated Princess Yangshi and the princesses of Zhuyi. Gongsun He and his son were killed as a result.
See "The Biography of Gongsun He" for details.
Later, Emperor Wu visited Ganquan Palace and fell ill. Jiang Chong saw that Emperor Wu was old and was afraid that he would be killed by the prince after his death, so he took the opportunity to cause trouble and wrote a letter saying that the emperor was ill because someone was practicing witchcraft.
So Emperor Wu appointed Jiang Chong as an envoy to investigate and deal with those who practiced witchcraft.
Jiang Chong directed the Hu wizards to dig in the ground everywhere, looking for puppets, and arresting those who engaged in witchcraft and night-time ritual curses. Let the Hu wizards observe the places contaminated by ghosts, mark them, dig out the puppets, arrest the people in the package, torture them, heat the iron, roast the interrogated person, and force him to confess.
The common people turned around and falsely accused each other, and the officials convicted the falsely accused of treason and injustice. As a result, tens of thousands of people were killed before and after.
At that time, Emperor Wu was already old and suspected that everyone around him was practicing witchcraft to curse him. No matter whether he was guilty of this crime or not, no one dared to file a lawsuit.
Jiang Chong had already understood the emperor's thoughts and took the opportunity to say that there was a witchcraft spirit in the palace. He first investigated the wives in the harem who were not favored by the emperor, and then in turn got the queen's head. Finally, he dug out the witchcraft in the palace and obtained the Tongmu Ren.
The prince was very frightened and could not explain to the emperor himself, so he arrested Jiang Chong and personally supervised and executed him.
He scolded: You are a slave of the country!

summary:
summary line 2: Jiang Chong, originally named Jiang Qi, fled to Chang'an after a feud with Prince Liu Dan of Zhao. He reported the prince's incest and adultery, leading to Liu Dan's deposition. Jiang Chong gained Emperor Wu's favor through his appearance and advice on foreign policy. He was appointed to supervise the capital, enforcing laws against luxury and arresting offenders. He detained the prince's envoy for using the imperial road, earning the emperor's praise. Later, fearing the prince would harm him after the emperor's death, Jiang Chong fabricated a witchcraft scandal, accusing the prince of cursing the emperor. He tortured confessions, killing tens of thousands. The prince, unable to defend himself, arrested and executed Jiang Chong. The prince's rebellion failed, and Emperor Wu later annihilated Jiang Chong's clan.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
乱乃国王父子不足邪！
乃复乱吾父子也！
太子繇是遂败。
语在《戾园传》。
后武帝知充有诈，夷充三族。
息夫躬字子微，河内河阳人也。
少为博士弟子，受《春秋》，通览记书。
容貌壮丽，为众所异。
哀帝初即位，皇后父特进孔乡侯傅晏与躬同郡，相友善，躬繇是以为援，交游日广。
先是，长安孙宠亦以游说显名，免汝南太守，与躬相结，俱上书，召待诏。
是时哀帝被疾，始即位，而人有告中山孝王太后祝诅上，太后及弟宜乡侯冯参皆自杀，其罪不明。
是后无盐危山有石自立，开道。
躬与宠谋曰： 上亡继嗣，体久不平，关东诸侯，心争阴谋。
今无盐有大石自立，闻邪臣托往事，以为大山石立而先帝龙兴。
东平王云以故与其后日夜祠祭祝诅上，欲求非望。
而后舅伍宏反因方术以医技得幸，出入禁门。
霍显之谋将行于杯杓，荆轲之变必起于帷幄。
事势若此，告之必成；发国奸，诛主雠，取封侯之计也。
躬、宠乃与中郎右师谭，共因中常侍宋弘上变事告焉。
上恶之，下有司案验，东平王云、云后谒及伍宏等皆坐诛。
上擢宠为南阳太守，谭颍川都尉，弘、躬皆光禄大夫、左曹、给事中。
是时，侍中董贤爱幸，上欲侯之，遂下诏云： 躬、宠因贤以闻，封贤为高安侯，宠为方阳侯，躬为宜陵侯，食邑各千户。
赐谭爵关内侯，食邑。
translation: 
Isn't it enough to disturb your king and his son?
Come to disturb our father and son again!
The prince was finally defeated because of this.
For details, see "The Biography of Prince Ru."
Later, Emperor Wu found out that Jiang Chong was responsible, so he annihilated his three clans.
Xifu Gong, whose courtesy name is Ziwei, is from Heyang County, Hanoi County.
When he was young, he was a doctoral student, studied "Spring and Autumn", and read biographies and books of hundreds of schools of thought.
His majestic appearance made everyone feel strange.
When Emperor Ai first came to the throne, the queen's father, Fu Yan, the Marquis of Kongxiang, and Xifu Gong were from the same county. They had a good relationship. Therefore, through Fu Yan's introduction, Xifu Gong's circle of friends became wider and wider.
Before this, Sun Chong of Chang'an was also known for his good lobbying skills. He was dismissed when he was the governor of Runan County. He made friends with Xi Fu Gong, and they both submitted letters at the same time and were recruited to obey the emperor's orders.
At that time, Emperor Ai was ill and had just ascended the throne. Someone reported that the Queen Mother of King Xiao of Zhongshan had cursed the emperor with witchcraft. The Queen Mother and her brother Feng Shen, the Marquis of Yixiang, committed suicide, but their charges have not yet been found out.
After that, a large boulder stood up automatically on the dangerous mountain in Wuyan County, and a passage emerged.
Xifu Gong and Sun Chong planned and said: The emperor has no son to be his heir, and he is ill for a long time. The princes of Guandong are all trying to compete for the throne.
Nowadays, there are big rocks standing up on their own in Wuyan County. I heard that those evil ministers relied on past events and thought that there were big rocks standing up on their own when Emperor Xuan rose up among the people.
Therefore, Shuping King Liu Yun and his queen worshiped and cursed the emperor day and night, hoping to obtain the throne.
On the contrary, Wu Hong, the queen's uncle, was favored by the emperor because of his knowledge of alchemy and ability to cure diseases, and was allowed to enter and exit the forbidden gates of the palace.
Huo Xian's conspiracy will be carried out on the medicine cup and spoon, and Jing Ke's incident will definitely happen on the emperor's curtain.
The situation is so dangerous that the whistleblower will definitely succeed. Exposing the country's treacherous officials and killing the emperor's enemies is a clever way to gain a title.
Xifu Gong, Sun Chong and Tan, the right master of the Zhonglang, reported to the court through Song Hong, the official of the Zhongchang, about King Dongping's rebellion.
Emperor Ai was very angry and handed the case to the relevant departments for investigation. King Shuping Liu Yun, Liu Yun's queen Ye and Wu Hong were all killed for the crime.
Emperor Ai promoted Sun Chong to be the prefect of Nanyang County, Tan, the right master, to be the captain of Yingchuan County, and Song Hong and Xifu Gong were both appointed to the post of Zuo Cao, the official of Guanglu.
At that time, Dong Xian, the servant, was very favored by the emperor. The emperor wanted to make him a marquis, so he issued an edict saying: Xifu Gong and Sun Chong reported the conspiracy through Dong Xian. Now Dong Xian is made Marquis of Gao'an, Sun Chong is Marquis of Fangyang, and Xifu Gong is Marquis of Yiling. Each of them has a thousand households.
The right master was given the title of Marquis Tan Guannei and was given the title of food town.

summary:
summary line 3: Xifu Gong, a scholar from Heyang, gained fame through his friend Fu Yan, the queen's father. With Sun Chong, he fabricated a plot against King Shuping Liu Yun, accusing him of witchcraft. The king and his associates were executed, and Xifu Gong was made Marquis of Yiling. He became a close advisor to Emperor Ai, criticizing officials and proposing policies, including expanding irrigation canals. He suggested a deceptive strategy to weaken the Xiongnu by forging letters, but General Gongsun Lu opposed it. Xifu Gong also urged military preparations based on astrological signs, but Prime Minister Wang Jia warned against flattery and deceit. The emperor initially supported Xifu Gong, but after a solar eclipse, Dong Xian undermined him. Xifu Gong was dismissed and later accused of cursing the emperor. He died in prison, and his family was exiled. After Emperor Ai's death, Sun Chong and others were also exiled.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
为将数岁，反不如一竖儒之功乎！
于是信然之，从其计，遂度河。
齐已听郦生，即留之纵酒，罢备汉守御。
信因袭历下军，遂至临菑。
齐王以郦生为欺己而亨之，因败走。
信遂定齐地，自立为齐假王。
汉方困于荥阳，遣张良即立信为齐王，以安固之。
项王亦遣武涉说信，欲与连和。
蒯通知天下权在信，欲说信令背汉，乃先微感信曰： 仆尝受相人之术，相君之面，不过封侯，又危而不安；相君之背，贵而不可言。
信曰： 何谓也？
通因请间，曰： 天下初作难也，俊雄豪桀建号壹呼，天下之士云合雾集，鱼鳞杂袭，飘至风起。
当此之时，忧在亡秦而已。
今刘、项分争，使人肝脑涂地，流离中野，不可胜数。
汉王将数十万众，距巩、雒、岨山河，一日数战，无尺寸之功，折北不救，败荥阳，伤成皋，还走宛、叶之间，此所谓智勇俱困者也。
楚人起彭城，转斗逐北，至荥阳，乘利席胜，威震天下，然兵困于京、索之间，迫西山而不能进，三年于此矣。
锐气挫于险塞，粮食尽于内藏，百姓罢极，无所归命。
以臣料之，非天下贤圣，其势固不能息天下之祸。
当今之时，两主县命足下。
足下为汉则汉胜。与楚则楚胜。
臣愿披心腹，堕肝胆，效愚忠，恐足下不能用也。
方今为足下计，莫若两利而俱存之，参分天下，鼎足而立，其势莫敢先动。
夫以足下之贤圣，有甲兵之众，据强齐，从燕、赵，出空虚之地以制其后，因民之欲，西乡为百姓请命，天下孰敢不听！
足下按齐国之故，有淮、泗之地，怀诸侯以德，深拱揖让，则天下君王相率而朝齐矣。
translation: 
Having been a general for several years is not as great as the contribution of a Confucian scholar.
So Han Xin thought what he said made sense, adopted his suggestion, and finally crossed the Yellow River.
The King of Qi had listened to Li Shiqi's persuasion, so he left him behind, drank and had fun together, and removed the defense against the Han Dynasty.
Han Xin therefore attacked the Qi army in Lixia and came to Linmiao City.
The King of Qi thought that Li Shiqi had deceived him, so he put him in boiling water and boiled him to death. As a result, he was defeated and fled.
Han Xin finally pacified Qi and established himself as the acting king of Qi.
At that time, the King of Han was under siege in Rongyang, so he sent Zhang Liang to make Han Xin the official King of Qi, comfort him, and make him firmly side with the King of Han.
Xiang Yu also sent Wu She to persuade Han Xin to join forces with him.
Kuai Tong knew that the change of the world situation depended on Han Xin, and wanted to persuade Han Xin to betray the Han Dynasty, so he first hinted at Han Xin in cryptic words: I once learned the art of physiognomy, and observing your face, I can only be made a marquis, and you will always be in danger; but looking at your back, it is very noble and difficult to tell.
Han Xin asked: What do you mean?
Kuai Tong then asked others to go away, and then said: When the world first rises up, heroes and heroes establish themselves as princes and kings, raise their arms and shout, and the people of the world gather like clouds and mist, are mixed and accumulated like fish scales, and rise up quickly like a strong wind.
People often only worry about overthrowing the Qin Dynasty.
Now Liu Bang and Xiang Yu are fighting, and countless people have been displaced.
The King of Han led hundreds of thousands of troops to defend Gong and Luo. Taking advantage of the dangers of the mountains and rivers, he fought several battles in vain. He was defeated and fled without rescue. He was defeated in Rongyang, wounded in Chenggao, and fled to Wan and Ye. This is said to be a person whose wisdom and courage are in trouble.
The Chu people raised their troops in Pengcheng, fought many battles, and were invincible. They marched to Rongyang, taking advantage of the victory, and shocked the world. However, they were blocked between Jing and Suo, and they were unable to advance near Xishan. It has been three years now.
Their vigor was thwarted at the steep pass, the treasury was depleted of food, and the people were miserable, not knowing who to surrender to.
In my opinion, unless there are sages in the world. Otherwise, it will be impossible to eliminate the disasters in the world.
Now the fate of Liu Bang and Xiang Yu is in your hands.
If you help the King of Han, the King of Han will win; if you join forces with the King of Chu, the King of Chu will succeed.
I am willing to express my sincere sincerity to you, but I am afraid that you will not accept my suggestion.
Now for your sake, it would be better for both of them to benefit and coexist together. If the world is divided into three parts and they stand as a tripod, no one will dare to attack first.
With your wisdom and wisdom, you have many armies in mail, occupying the powerful state of Qi, uniting Yan and Zhao, sending troops to the empty land to control their rear, obeying the people's will, heading west to stop the fighting between Chu and Han, and saving the soldiers from death. No one in the world dares to disobey!
If you own the land between Huai and Si according to the original territory of Qi, appease the princes with your kindness, give them a home in peace, and treat the wise men with courtesy, then all the princes in the world will come to worship Qi.

summary:
summary line 4: The text concludes with a lament on the dangers of eloquent but harmful advisors, citing historical examples from the Spring and Autumn period to the Han dynasty, where slander and deceit led to disasters, including the deaths of rulers and the ruin of states.

