Chunk 0: 
original: 
青州。
案《禹贡》为海岱之地，舜置十二牧，则其一也。
舜以青州越海，又分为营州，则辽东本为青州矣。
《周礼》： 正东曰青州。
盖取土居少阳，其色为青，故以名也。《春秋元命包》云： 虚危流为青州。
汉武帝置十三州，因旧名，历后汉至晋不改。
州统郡国六，县三十七，户五万三千。
齐国秦置郡，汉以为国。
统县五，户一万四千。
临淄西安有棘里亭。
东安平汝水出东北。
广饶昌国乐毅所封。
济南郡汉置。
统县五，户五千。
或云魏平蜀，徙其豪将家于济河北，故改为济岷郡。而《太康地理志》无此郡名，未之详。平寿古国。
寒浞封此。
下密有三石祠。
胶东侯国。
即墨有天山祠。祝阿
乐安国汉置。
统县八，户一万一千。
高苑临济有蚩尤祠。
博昌有薄姑祠。
利益侯相。
蓼城侯国。
邹寿光古斟灌氏所封国。
东朝阳
translation: 
Qingzhou.
The case "Yu Gong" records that in the area between Shuhai and Mount Tai, Ai built twelve pastoralists, and Qingzhou was one of them.
Because Qingzhou spans the sea, Shun divided Yingzhou into another state. Why did he send Qingzhou to Liaodong originally?
"Book of Rites of the Zhou Dynasty": Directly east of Qingzhou.
It is named after its location in the eastern polar region and its green color. "Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: The corresponding place of empty and dangerous places is Qingzhou.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty established thirteen states, and Qingzhou continued to use its old name, which remained unchanged from the later Han Dynasty to the Jin Dynasty.
The whole state governs six counties, 37 counties, and 53,000 households.
Qi State was established as a county by the Qin Dynasty and as a country by the Han Dynasty.
It oversees five counties and 14,000 households.
There is Jili Pavilion Emperor in Xi'an, Linzi.
Pingru River in Dong'an comes out of the northeast.
Guangrao Changguo Leyi fiefdom.
Beihai County was established as Beihai County by Emperor Jing.
The ancient kingdom of Wang Yi. Seal this place.
There are three stone temples on the wall. Micellar Hou Kingdom.
There is Tianshan Temple in Jimo.
Jinan County falls setting.
He was in charge of five counties and five thousand households.
It is said that after Wei pacified Shu, he moved the home of Shu's powerful generals to the north of Liaohui, so he changed his name to Zha Chong Kuang Mo.
Le Anguo is also set.
It oversees eight counties and 11,000 households.
There is Chiyou Temple in Linji, Gaoyuan.
There is Bogu Temple in Bochang.
Shape Yihouxiang.
Quhou State.
Zou Shouguang Guan's feudal state.
dongchaoyang


Chunk 1: 
original: 
城阳郡汉置，属北海，自魏至晋，分北海而立焉。
郡统县十，户一万二千。
莒故莒子国。
姑幕古薄姑氏国。诸淳于故淳于公国。
东武高密汉改为郡。
壮武黔陬平昌昌安
东莱国汉置郡。
统县六，户六千五百。
掖侯相。
当利侯国。
庐乡曲城黄有莱山、松林莱君祠弦侯国。
有百支莱祠。
长广郡咸宁三年置。
统县三，户四千五百。
不其侯国。
长广挺
惠帝元康十年，又置平昌郡。
又分城阳之黔陬、壮武、淳于、昌安、高密、平昌、营陵、安丘、大、剧、临朐十一县为高密国。
东莱人曹嶷为刺史。造广固城，后为石季龙所灭。
季龙末，辽西段龛自号齐王，据青州。
慕容恪灭赵，克青州。
苻氏平燕，尽有其地。
及苻氏败后，刺史苻朗以州降。
朝廷置幽州，以别驾辟闾浑为刺史，镇广固。
隆安四年，为慕容德所灭，遂都之，是为南燕，复改为青州。
translation: 
Chengyang County is located in Beihai. From Wei to Jin, Beihai was divided and this county was established.
The county oversees ten counties and 12,000 households.
Juyuan Juzi country.
The platform is used to patrol the country in ancient times. Zhu Chunyu, therefore Chunyu the principality.
Dongwu Gaomi was changed to a county.
Zhuangwu, Guizhou, Zou, Pingchang, Chang'an
Donglai State was established as a county.
Oversaw six counties and 6,500 households.
Ye Houxiang.
When benefiting the country.
There are Huangyoulai Mountain and Songlin Laijun Temple in Qucheng, Luxiang. The prince country.
There is a temple for the king of Baizhirai.
Changguang County was established in the third year of Xianning.
It oversees three counties and 4,500 households.
Not its princely state.
Changguangting
In the tenth year of Emperor Hui's reign in Yuankang, Pingchang County was established.
In addition, Qianzou, Zhuangwu, Chunyu, Chang'an, Gaomi, and Pingchang counties in Chengyang were divided into Gaomi countries. After the Yongjia Rebellion, Qingzhou fell to the Shi family.
Cao Yi, a native of Donglai, served as governor and built Guanggu City, but was later destroyed by Shi Jilong.
In the last years of Shi Jilong's reign, Duan Chong, a native of western Liaoning, claimed to be King of Qi and occupied Qingzhou.
Murong Ke reduced Zhao and captured Qingzhou.
Fu's Pingyan occupies the entire territory.
After Fu's defeat, the governor Fu Lang surrendered the whole state.
The imperial court established Youzhou, and appointed Bielhun as the governor to guard Guanggu.
In the fourth year of Long'an, he was defeated by Murong De, and then the capital was established here, which was named Nanyan and then changed to Qingzhou.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
德以并州牧镇阴平，幽州刺史镇发干，徐州刺史镇莒城，青州刺史镇东莱，兗州刺史镇梁父。
慕容超移青州于东莱郡，后为刘裕所灭，留长史羊穆之为青州刺史，筑东阳城而居之。
自元帝渡江，于广陵侨置青州。
至是始置北青州，镇东阳城，以侨立州为南青州。
而后省南青州，而北青州直曰青州。
徐州。
案《禹贡》海岱及淮之地，舜十二牧，则其一也。
于周入青州之域。
《春秋元命包》云： 天氐流为徐州。
盖取舒缓之义，或云因徐丘以立名。
秦兼天下，以置泗水、薛、琅邪三郡。
楚汉之际，分置东阳郡。
汉又分置东海郡，改泗水为沛，改薛为鲁，分沛置楚国，以东阳属吴国。
景帝改吴为江都，武帝分沛、东阳置临淮郡，改江都为广陵。
及置十三州，以其地为徐州，统楚国及东海、琅邪、临淮、广陵四郡。
宣帝改楚为彭城郡，后汉改为彭城国，以沛郡之广戚县来属，改临淮为下邳国。
及太康元年，复分下邳属县在淮南者置临淮郡，分琅邪置东莞郡。
translation: 
Murongde sent Bingzhou Mu to guard Yinping, Youzhou Governor to guard Fagan, Xuzhou Governor to guard Jucheng, Qingzhou Governor to guard Shulai, and Yanzhou Governor to guard Liang Fu.
Murong Chao moved Qingzhou to Donglai County, which was later eliminated by Liu Yu. Chang Shi Yangmuzhi was left as the governor of Qingzhou, and Dongyang City was built as the administrative center.
After crossing the Yangtze River south from the Yuan Emperor, he established Qingzhou in Guangling.
So far, for the first time, Beiqing Prefecture was established to guard Shuyang City, and the overseas Chinese established the prefecture as South Qing Prefecture.
Later, South Qingzhou was cancelled, and North Qingzhou was directly called Qingzhou.
Xuzhou.
The case "Yu Gong" records that Saishan, Tongshanjian and Jindi loved to build twelve animal husbandry, and Tuye was one of them.
Incorporated into the direct area during hurricanes.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: The star Dixiu corresponds to Tuzhou.
It probably means soothing, and it is said that the state was named after his death.
Taiwan annexed the world and placed the three counties of Mi, Lan and Wangcheng here.
When Chu Mo was fighting, Dongyang County was divided.
The Han Dynasty also divided Shuhai County, changed the name of Swimming to Pei, changed Xue to Lu, divided Pei County into Chu State, and added Cambodian Yang County to Wu State.
Emperor Jing changed Wu to Jiangdu, Emperor Wu divided parts of Pei County and Shuyang County into Linhuai County, and changed Jiangdu to Guangling.
When the Thirteen Prefectures were established, the dispatch area was set as Xuzhou, which governed Chu State and the four counties of Donghai, Langye, Linhuai, and Guangling.
Emperor Xuan changed Chu to Pengcheng County, Houmo to Pengcheng State, put Guangqi County in Pei County into the scope of Pengcheng State, and changed Linhuai to Xiapi State.
In the first year of Taikang, Xiapi County in Huainan was divided into Linhuai County, and Langxie was divided into Dongguan County.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
州凡领郡国七，县六十一，户八万一千二十一。
彭城国汉以为郡。
统县七，户四千一百二十一。
彭城故殷伯太彭国。
留张良所封。
广戚傅阳武原吕梧
下邳国汉置为临淮郡。
统县七，户七千五百。
下邳葛峄山在西，古峄阳也。
韩信为楚王，都之。
凌良城侯相。
睢陵夏丘取虑僮
东海郡汉置。
统县十二，户一万一千一百。
郯故郯子国。
祝其羽山在县之西。
朐襄贲利城赣榆厚丘兰陵承昌虑合乡戚
琅邪国秦置郡。
统县九，户二万九千五百。
开阳侯相。
临沂阳都缯即丘华费鲁季氏邑。
东安蒙阴山在西南。
东莞郡太康中置。
统县八，户一万。
东莞故鲁郓邑。
硃虚营陵尚父吕望所封。
安丘故莒渠丘父封邑。
盖临朐有海水祠。
剧广
广陵郡汉置。
统县八，户八千八百。
淮阴射阳舆海陵有江海会祠。
广陵盐渎淮浦江都有江水祠。
临淮郡汉置，章帝以合下邳，太康元年复立。
统县十，户一万。
translation: 
The whole state governs seven counties, 61 counties, and 81,021 households.
Pengcheng State was elected as a county.
It oversees seven counties and 4,121 households.
Pengcheng was originally Yin Bo Tai Pengguo.
Zhang Liang's fiefdom.
Guang Qi Fu Yang Wu Yuan Lu Wu
The Han Dynasty of Xiapi State established it as Linhuai.
It oversees seven counties and 7,500 households.
Jianshan, the tomb of Wang Wu, is in its west, which is ancient Yiyang.
When Han Xin was the king of Chu, he made Qianbao his capital.
The Marquis of Lingliang City.
Suiling Xia Qiu Chu Lingtong
Donghai County Han setting.
It oversees twelve counties with 11,100 households.
Tanyuan Tanzi Kingdom.
Danqiyu Mountain is in the west of the county.
Quxiang, Ben, Licheng, Ganyu, Houqiu, Lanling, Chengchang, Luhe Township, Qi
Langye traditional Chinese painting was established in the county.
It governs nine counties and 29,500 households.
Kaiyang Houxiang.
Falling close to Jumi, Linyi, Yangdu, Zhen, is the city of Qiuhua, Feilu and Ji's family.
Yuedong Anmengyin Mountain is in its southwest.
It was established during the Zuojiang period of Dongguan County.
It oversees eight counties and 10,000 households.
Dongguan was originally Luyunyi.
Zhu Xuying's mausoleum was granted to his father Lu Wang.
Anqiu was originally granted the title of Juquqiu.
There is a Haihai Temple in Linqu.
Drama wide
It was set up in Guangling County.
It oversees eight counties and 8,800 households.
There is Jianghai Temple in Sheyangyu Hailing in Huaiyin.
There are Jiangshui Temples in Lubao, Yandu and Huaipu River.
Linhuai County was established, Tongtong merged it with Gongwu, and re-established the county in the first year of Zuo Chen.
Overseeing ten counties and ten thousand households.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
盱眙东阳高山赘其潘旌高邮淮陵司吾下相徐
太康十年，以青州城阳郡之莒、姑幕、诸、东武四县属东莞。
元康元年，分东海置兰陵郡。
七年，又分东莞置东安郡，分临淮置淮陵郡，以堂邑置堂邑郡。
永嘉之乱，临淮、淮陵并沦没石氏。
元帝渡江之后，徐州所得惟半，乃侨置淮阳、阳平、济阴、北济阴四郡。
又琅邪国人随帝过江者，遂置怀德县及琅邪郡以统之。
是时，幽、冀、青、并、兗五州及徐州之淮北流人相帅过江淮，帝并侨立郡县以司牧之。
割吴郡之海虞北境，立郯、朐、利城、祝其、厚丘、西隰、襄贲七县，寄居曲阿，以江乘置南东海、南琅邪、南东平、南兰陵等郡，分武进立临淮、淮陵、南彭城等郡，属南徐州，又置顿丘郡属北徐州。
明帝又立南沛、南清河、南下邳、南东莞、南平昌、南济阴、南濮阳、南太平、南泰山、南济阳、南鲁等郡，以属徐、兗二州，初或居江南，或居江北，或以兗州领州。
郗鉴都督青兗二州诸军事、兗州刺史，加领徐州刺史，镇广陵。
translation: 
Xuyi, Dongyang High Mountain, Panjing, Gaoyou, Huailing Siwu, Xiangxu
In the tenth year of Taikang, the four counties of Ju, Gumu, Zhu and Shuwu in Chengyang County of Qingzhou were placed under the jurisdiction of Dongguan.
In the first year of Yuankang, Shuhai County was divided into Lanling County.
In the seventh year, Dongguan County was divided into Shu'an County, Linhuai was divided into Huailing County, and Tangyi County was established in Tangyi.
During the Yongjia Rebellion, both Linhuai and Huailing fell to the Shi family.
After Emperor Yuan crossed the river, Xuzhou only gained half of its territory, so he established four counties: Huaiyang, Yangping, Jiyin, and North Jiyin.
There were also people from Langye who followed Emperor Yuan across the river and established Huaide County and Langye County under their jurisdiction.
At that time, the people of You, Ji, Qing, Bing, Yanwu and Xuzhou north of the Huaihe River crossed the Yangtze River and the Huaihe River, and the Yuan Emperor established counties and counties to manage them.
The northern part of Haiyu in Wu County was divided, and seven counties were established: Tan, Qu, Licheng, Zhuqi, Houqiu, Xixi, and Xiangben. They settled in Qu'a. Nanshuhai, Nanlangye, Nandongping, and Nanlanling counties were established in Jiangcheng. Wujin was divided into Linhuai, Huailing, and Nanpengcheng counties, which belonged to southern Xuzhou, and Dunqiu County belonged to northern Xuzhou.
Emperor Ming also established Nanpei, Nanqinghe, Nanxiapi, Nandongguan, Nanpingchang, Nanzayin, Nanpuyang, Nanluping, Nantaishan, Nanjiyang, Nanlu and other counties to belong to Xu and Yanzhou. Initially, some counties were located south of the Yangtze River, some were located north of the Yangtze River, and some were controlled by Yanzhou.
Xi Jian was in charge of the military affairs of Qing and Yanzhou, the governor of Yanzhou, and the governor of Xuzhou, and guarded Guangling.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
苏峻平后，自广陵还镇京口。
又于汉故九江郡界置钟离郡，属南徐州，江北又侨立幽、冀、青、并四州。
穆帝时，移南东海七县出居京口。
义熙七年，始分淮北为北徐州，淮南但为徐州，统彭城、沛、下邳、兰陵、东莞、东安、琅邪、淮阳、阳平、济阴、北济阴十一郡，以盱眙立盱眙郡，统考城、直渎、阳城三县，又分广陵界置海陵、山阳二郡。
后又以幽冀合徐州，青并合兗州。
荆州。
案《禹贡》荆及衡阳之地，舜置十二牧，则其一也。
《周礼》： 正南曰荆州。
《春秋元命包》云： 轸星散为荆州。
荆，强也，言其气躁强。
亦曰警也，言南蛮数为寇逆，其人有道后服，无道先强，常警备也。
又云取名于荆山。
六国时，其地为楚。
及秦，取楚鄢郢为南郡，又取巫中地为黔中郡，以楚之汉北立南阳郡，灭楚之后，分黔中为长沙郡。
translation: 
After Su Jun was pacified, he returned from Guangling to guard Jingkou.
In the Han Dynasty, Zhongli County was built into the original Jiujiang County boundary, which belonged to southern Xuzhou. To the north of the Yangtze River, there were also four states: You, Ji, Qing, and Bing.
During the reign of Emperor Mu, seven counties in the South East China Sea were assigned to Jingkou.
In the seventh year of Yixi, Huaibei was first divided into North Xuzhou, and Huainan was only called Xuzhou. It governed eleven counties including Pengcheng, Pei, Xiapi, Lanling, Dongguan, Shu'an, Langye, Huaiyang, Yangping, Jiyin, and Beijiyin. Xuyi County was established in Xuyi, which governed Kaocheng, Zhidu, and Yangcheng counties. Guangling was also divided into Hailing and Shanyang counties.
Later, You and Ji were merged into Xuzhou, and Qing and Qingzhou were merged into Yanzhou.
Jingzhou.
"Yu Gong" records that in the Jing and Hengyang areas, Shun established twelve pastoral areas, and Jingzhou was one of them.
"Zhou Rites": Zhengnan is Jingzhou.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Mingbao" says: Zhen Xingsan corresponds to Jingzhou.
Jing means strong, referring to the spirit of Jingzhou striving for strength.
It also means police, which means that the southern barbarians have repeatedly invaded and plundered, and the people of Jingzhou are righteous and obedient, but unruly, they are strong first and always on guard.
Another theory is that it was named after Jingshan Mountain.
During the Six Kingdoms period, this area was the territory of Chu State.
In the Qin Dynasty, Yanying of Chu State was taken as the southern county, Wuzhong area was called Qianzhong County, and Nanyang County was set up north of the Chu-Han River. After Chu was subtracted, central Guizhou was divided into Changsha County.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
汉高祖分长沙为桂阳郡，改黔中为武陵郡，分南郡为江夏郡。
武帝又分长沙为零陵郡。
及置十三州，因旧名为荆州，统南郡、南阳、零陵、桂阳、武陵、长沙、江夏七郡。
后汉献帝建安十三年，魏武尽得荆州之地，分南郡以北立襄阳郡，又分南阳西界立南乡郡，分枝江以西立临江郡。
及败于赤壁，南郡以南属吴，吴后遂与蜀分荆州。
于是南郡、零陵、武陵以西为蜀，江夏、桂阳、长沙三郡为吴，南阳、襄阳、南乡三郡为魏。
而荆州之名，南北双立。
蜀分南郡，立宜都郡，刘备没后，宜都、武陵、零陵、南郡四郡之地悉复属吴。
魏文帝以汉中遗黎立魏兴、新城二郡，明帝分新城立上庸郡。
孙权分江夏立武昌郡，又分苍梧立临贺郡，分长沙立衡阳、湘东二郡。
孙休分武陵立天门郡，分宜都立建平郡。
孙皓分零陵立始安郡，分桂阳立始兴郡，又分零陵立邵陵郡，分长沙立安成郡。
荆州统南郡、武昌、武陵、宜都、建平、天门、长沙、零陵、桂阳、衡阳、湘东、邵陵、临贺、始兴、始安十五郡，其南阳、江夏、襄阳、南乡、魏兴、新城、上庸七郡属魏之荆州。
及武帝平吴，分南郡为南平郡，分南阳立义阳郡，改南乡顺阳郡，又以始兴、始安、临贺三郡属广州，以扬州之安成郡来属。
州统郡二十二，县一百六十九，户三十五万七千五百四十八。
江夏郡汉置。
统县七，户二万四千。
安陆横尾山在东北，古之陪尾山。
云杜故云子国。
曲陵平春邑阝竟陵章山在东北，古之方山。
南新市
南郡汉置。
translation: 
Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty divided Changsha into Guiyang County, changed central Guizhou into Wuling County, and divided Nanjun into Jiangxia County.
Emperor Wu also divided Changsha into Lingling County.
When the Thirteen Prefectures were established, the old name of Jingzhou was used, and it governed the seven counties of Nanjun, Nanyang, Lingling, Guiyang, Wuling, Changsha, and Jiangxia.
In the 13th year of the Jian'an reign of Emperor Xian of the Later Han Dynasty, Emperor Wu of Wei obtained all the land in Jingzhou and divided it into Xiangyang County to the north of Nanjun, Nanxiang County to the west of Nanyang, and Linjiang County to the west of Zhijiang.
When Wei was defeated at Chibi, the south of Nanjun belonged to Wu, and Wu and Shu divided Jingzhou.
At that time, Nanjun, Lingling, and the west of Wuling were the area of ​​Shu, the three counties of Jiangxia, Guiyang, and Changsha were the area of ​​Wu, and the three counties of Nanyang, Xiangyang, and Nanxiang were the area of ​​Wei.
Jingzhou has two names: north and south.
Shu divided Nanjun into Yidu County. After Liu Bei's death, all the land in the four counties of Yidu, Wuling, Lingling and Nanjun belonged to Wu.
Emperor Wen of Wei sent people from Hanzhong to establish Wei Xing and Xincheng counties. Emperor Ming divided the new city into Shangyong County.
Sun Quan divided Jiangxia into Wuchang County, Cangwu into Linhe County, and Changsha into Hengyang and Xiangshu counties.
Sun Xiu divided Wuling into Tianmen County and Xuandu into Jianping County.
Sun Hao divided Lingling into Shi'an County, divided Guanghu into Yuanman Sculpture, divided Qian again into Yingyi Sculpture, and divided Changsha into Ancheng County.
Jingzhou governs fifteen counties including Nanjun, Wuchang, Wuling, Yidu, Jianping, Tianmen, Changsha, Lingling, Guiyang, Hengyang, Xiangshu, Shaoling, Linhe, Shixing, and Shi'an, and the seven counties of Nanyang, Jiangxia, Xiangyang, Nanxiang, Weixing, Xincheng, and Shangyong belong to Jingzhou of Wei.
When Emperor Wu of the Jin Dynasty pinged Wu, Nanjun was divided into Nanping County, Nanyang was divided into Yiyang County, and Nanxiang was changed into Shunyang County. Shixing, Shi'an, and Linhe counties were added to Guangzhou, and Ancheng County in Yangzhou was added to Jingzhou.
The whole state governs 22 counties, 169 counties, and 357,548 households.
Jiangxia Junhan was set up.
He oversees seven counties and has two to four thousand households.
Anlu Hengwei Mountain is in the northeast, which was Peiwei Mountain in ancient times.
Yundu is the old Yunzi country.
Quling, Pingchun, Jingling and Zhangshan are in the northeast, which was Neifang Mountain in ancient times.
Nanxin City
Nanjun Han setting.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
统县十一，户五万五千。
江陵故楚都。
编有云梦官。
当阳华容鄀故鄀子国。
枝江故罗国。
旌阳州陵楚嬖人州侯所邑。
监利松滋石首
襄阳郡魏置。
中庐临沮荆山在东北。
巳阝襄阳侯相。
山都邓城
南阳国秦置郡。
统县十四，户二万四千四百。
宛西鄂侯相。
雉鲁阳公国相。
犨淯阳公国相。
博望公国相。
堵阳叶侯相。
有长城山，号曰方城。舞阴公国相。比阳公国相。
涅阳冠军郦顺阳郡太康中置。
统八县，户二万一百。
酂顺阳南乡丹水武当侯相。
阴筑阳析
义阳郡太康中置。
统县十二，户一万九千。
新野侯相。
穰邓故邓侯国。
蔡阳随故随国。
安昌棘阳厥西平氏桐柏山在南。
义阳平林朝阳
新城郡魏置。
统县四，户一万五千二百。
房陵绥阳昌魏沶乡
魏兴郡魏置。
统县六，户一万二千。
晋兴安康西城锡长利洵阳
上庸郡魏置。
统县六，户一万一千四百四十八。
上庸侯相。
安富北巫武陵上廉微阳
translation: 
It oversees 11 counties and 55,000 households.
Jiangling was the original capital of Chu.
Edited by Yun Mengguan.
Dangyang Huarongdu was originally the capital of Ziguo.
Zhijiang was originally from Luo Kingdom.
Jingyang Prefecture Ling and Chu's favored minister Prefecture Marquis were granted the title of Yi.
Jianli Songzi Stone Head
Gong set up in Guoyang County.
It oversees eight counties with 22,000 and 700 households.
Yicheng original Yandi. The Prime Minister of the Fortress House in Zhonglu.
Chen plastic molding follows Jujing Mountain in its northeast.
Shaoyou was established as a county in the Qin Dynasty of Nanyang.
It oversees 14 counties and 24,400 households.
Wanxi Ehouxiang.
Prime Minister of the Duke of Luyang.
Prime Minister of the Duchy of Jijuoyang.
The Prime Minister of the Duke of Bowang.
Duyang Yehouxiang.
There is the Great Wall Mountain, which is called Fang. The Prime Minister of Wuyin Principality. Prime Minister of the Duke of Biyang.
Xinieyang, champion, Li, was established during the Taikang period of Shunyang County.
It oversees eight counties and 20,000 households.
Wudang Houxiang in Danshui, Nanxiang, Shunyang.
Analysis of Yin Building Yang
It was established during the reign of Lord Chen of Yiyang County.
It governs twelve counties and nineteen thousand households.
Xinyehouxiang.
Rang Deng was originally from the Deng Hou Kingdom.
Cai Yang followed Yuan and his country.
Anchang Jiyang Jue Xiping's Tongbai Mountain is in its south.
Yiyang Pinglin Chaoyang
Xincheng County pad placement.
It oversees four counties and 15,200 households.
Fangling Suiyang Changweichang Township
Weixing County was established.
It oversees six counties and 12,000 households.
Xingjin Ankang Xichang Xunyang
Shangyong County was established in Wei Dynasty.
It oversees six counties and 11,448 households.
Shang Luhouxiang.
Anfu North Wuwu Mausoleum Shang Lian Weiyang


Chunk 8: 
original: 
建平郡吴、晋各有建平郡，太康元年合。
统县八，户一万三千二百。
巫北井秦昌信陵兴山建始秭归故楚子国。
沙渠
宜都郡吴置。
统县三，户八千七百。
夷陵夷道佷山
南平郡吴置，以为南郡，太康元年改曰南平。
统县四，户七千。
作唐孱陵南安江安
武陵郡汉置。统县十，户一万四千。
临沅龙阳汉寿沅陵黚阳酉阳镡城沅南迁陵舞阳
天门郡吴置。
统县五，户三千一百。
零阳溇中衮临澧澧阳
长沙郡汉置。
统县十，户三万三千。
临湘攸下隽醴陵刘阳建宁吴昌罗蒲沂巴陵
衡阳郡吴置，故属长沙。
统县九，户二万三千。
湘乡重安湘南湘西烝阳衡山连道新康益阳
湘东郡吴置，故属长沙。
统县七，户一万九千五百。
酃茶陵临烝利阳阴山新平新宁
零陵郡汉置。
统县十一，户二万五千一百。
泉陵有香茅，云古贡之以缩酒。
translation: 
Jianping County Wu and Jin each had Jianping County, which was merged into one county in the first year of Taikang.
It oversees eight counties and 13,200 households.
Wu Beijing, Qinchang Xinling Mausoleum, Xinling Mountain and Xinling Mountain were built, and Zi returned to the original Chuzi Kingdom.
Shaqu
Wu Zhi, Yidu County.
Under the jurisdiction of three counties, there are eight thousand and seven hundred households.
Yiling Yidaohen Mountain
Nanping County was established by Wu and was called Nanjun. In the first year of Taikang, it was renamed Nanqian.
He oversees four counties and 7,000 households.
As the tomb of the Tang Dynasty, Nan'an and Jiang'an
Wuling County Desert was established to take charge of ten counties and 14,000 households.
Linyuan, Longyang, Hanshou, Yuanling, Consort-in-law Yang, Youyang Mandala, Yuannan, Qianling, Wuyang
Wu was established in Tianmen County.
It oversees five counties and 3,100 households.
Lingyang Ao Zhongchong Linli Liyang
Changsha County was set up by the Han Dynasty.
It oversees ten counties and 33,000 households.
Linxiang, Junliling, Liuyang, Jianning, Wuchang, Luopu, Yibaling
Wu Zhi, Hengyang County, originally belonged to Changsha County.
It oversees nine counties and 23,000 households.
Xiangxiang Chongan Xiangnan Hunan Xiangxi Yanyang Hengshan Link Road Xinkang Yiyang
Wu Zhi, Hunan-Cambodian County, originally belonged to Changsha County.
It oversees seven counties and 19,500 households.
Lin Chaling Linyan Liyang Yinshan Xingan Xinning
Lingling County was set up by the Han Dynasty.
It oversees 11 counties and 25,100 households.
There is lemongrass in Quanling, and it is said that tribute was paid in ancient times for sacrifices.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
祁阳零陵营浦洮阳永昌观阳营道春陵泠道应阳东界有鼻墟，云象所封。
邵陵郡吴置。
统县六。户一万二千。
邵陵都梁夫夷建兴邵阳高平
桂阳郡汉置。
统县六，户一万一千三百。
郴项羽义帝之邑。
耒阳便临武晋宁南平
武昌郡吴置。
有湓口关。
阳新沙羡有夏口，对沔口，有津。
沙阳鄂有新兴、马头铁官官陵
安成郡吴置。
统县七，户三千。
平都宜春新谕永新安复萍乡广兴
惠帝分桂阳、武昌、安成三郡立江州，以新城、魏兴、上庸三郡属梁州，又分义阳立随郡，分南阳立新野郡，分江夏立竟陵郡。
怀帝又分长沙、衡阳、湘东、零陵、邵陵、桂阳及广州之始安、始兴、临贺九郡置湘州。
时蜀乱，又割南郡之华容、州陵、监利三县别立丰都，合四县置成都郡，为成都王颖国，居华容县。
愍帝建兴中，并还南郡，亦并丰都于监利。
元帝渡江，又侨立新兴、南河东二郡。
translation: 
Qiyang Linglingyingpu Taoyang Yongchang Guanyangying Road Chunling Lingdao Yingyang East boundary There are cultivated areas on the eastern boundary, which are said to be three fiefs.
Shaoling County presented it.
It oversees six counties and 12,000 households.
Liang Fuyi, the capital of Shaoling, built Shaoyang Gaoping
Guiyang County falls setting.
It oversees six counties and 11,300 households.
Chen Xiangyu granted the fief to Emperor Yi.
Leiyang comes to Wujin and Nanping
Wu Zhi, Wuchang County.
Chaisang has a gate of water.
There is Xiakou in Yangxinsha. On the other side is Miangkou, where there is a ferry.
Shayang and Hubei have the Xingxing and Ma Tou Iron Official Tombs.
Wu Zhi, Ancheng County.
He oversees seven counties and 3,000 households.
Pingdu Yichun New Edict Yongxin'an restored Pingxiang Guangxing
Emperor Hui divided the three counties of Guiyang, Wuchang, and Ancheng into Jiangzhou, and placed the three counties of Xincheng, Weixing, and Shangyong into Liangzhou. He also divided Yiyang into Sui County, Nanyang into Xinye County, and Jiangxia into Jingling County.
Emperor Huai divided the nine counties of Changsha, Hengyang, Xiangdong, Lingling, Shaoling, Guiyang and Guangzhou's Shi'an, Shixing and Linhe into Xiangzhou.
At that time, there was civil strife in Shu, and Emperor Huai divided the three counties of Huarong, Zhouling, and Jianli in Nanjun to establish Fengdu, and merged the four counties to form Chengdu County. It was a feudal state of Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, and his residence was in Huarong County.
During the Jianxing period of Emperor Min, Chengdu County was merged back to Nanjun, and Fengdu was merged into Jianli.
Emperor Yuan crossed the Yangtze River and established Xinxing County and Nanhedong County.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
穆帝时，又分零陵立营阳郡，以义阳流人在南郡者立为义阳郡。
又以广州之临贺、始兴、始安三郡及江州之桂阳，益州之巴东，合五郡来属，以长沙、衡阳、湘东、零陵、邵陵、营阳六郡属湘州。
桓温又分南郡立武宁郡。
安帝又侨立南义阳、东义阳、长宁三郡。
义熙十三年，省湘州，长沙、衡阳、湘东、零陵、邵陵、营阳还入荆州。
扬州。
案《禹贡》淮海之地，舜置十二牧，则其一也。《周礼》： 东南曰扬州。
《春秋元命包》云： 牵牛流为扬州，分为越国。
以为江南之气躁劲，厥性轻扬。
亦曰，州界多水，水波扬也。
于古则荒服之国，战国时其地为楚分。
秦始皇并天下，以置鄣、会稽、九江三郡。
项羽封英布为九江王，尽有其地。
汉改九江曰淮南，即封布为淮南王。
六年，分淮南置豫章郡。
translation: 
During the reign of Emperor Mu, Lingling was divided into Yingyang County, and Yiyang County was established for the Yiqiang people living in Nanjun.
In addition, the three counties of Linhe, Shixing, and Shi'an in Luzhou, Guiyang in Jiangzhou, and Basu in Yizhou, a total of five counties, were placed under Jingzhou, and the six counties of Changsha, Hengyang, Xiangdong, Lingling, Shaoling, and Yingyang were placed under Xiangzhou.
Huanxuan also divided Nanjun into Wuning County.
Emperor An also established the three counties of Nan Yiyang, Dong Yiyang and Changning.
In the thirteenth year of Yixi, Xiangzhou was abolished, and Changsha, Hengyang, Xiangshu, Lingling, Shaoling, and Yingyang were assigned to Jingzhou.
Yangzhou.
"Yu Gong" records that in the area entering the sea, twelve pastoralists were built, and Lao industry was one of them. "Zhou Li": Southeast means returning karma.
"Spring and Autumn Yuan Ming Bao" says: Altair is the division of Yangzhou, corresponding to the Yue Kingdom.
It is believed that the energy of Jiangnan is restless and strong, and the temperament is light.
It is also said that there is a lot of water in the Yangzhou area and the water waves are strong.
In ancient times, it was the most remote country from Wang Ji among the five kingdoms. It was occupied by the Chu State during the Warring States Period.
Qin Shihuang unified the world and established three counties: Zhang, Kuaiji and Jiujiang.
Xiang Yu made Yingbu the king of Jiujiang and occupied the entire territory.
The Han Dynasty renamed Jiujiang Huainan and granted Yingbu the title of King of Huainan.
In the sixth year, Huainan was divided into Yuzhang County.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
十一年，布诛，立皇子长为淮南王，封刘濞为吴王，二国尽得扬州之地。
文帝十六年，分淮南立庐江、衡山二郡。
景帝四年，封皇子非为江都王，并得鄣、会稽郡，而不得豫章。
武帝改江都曰广陵，封皇子胥为王而以属徐州。
元封二年，改鄣曰丹杨，改淮南复为九江。
后汉顺帝分会稽立吴郡，扬州统会稽、丹杨、吴、豫章、九江、庐江六郡，省六安并庐江郡。
献帝兴平中，孙策分豫章立庐陵郡。
孙权又分豫章立鄱阳郡，分丹杨立新都郡。
孙亮又分豫章立临川郡，分会稽立临海郡。
孙休又分会稽立建安郡。
孙皓分会稽立东阳郡，分吴立吴兴郡，分豫章、庐陵、长沙立安成郡，分庐陵立庐陵南部都尉，扬州统丹杨、吴、会稽、吴兴、新都、东阳、临海、建安、豫章、鄱阳、临川、安成、庐陵南部十四郡。
江西庐江、九江之地，自合肥之北至寿春悉属魏。
及晋平吴，以安成属荆州，分丹杨之宣城、宛陵、陵阳、安吴、泾、广德、宁国、怀安、石城、临城、春谷十一县立宣城郡，理宛陵，改新都曰新安郡，改庐陵南部为南康郡，分建安立晋安郡，又分丹杨立毗陵郡。
扬州合统郡十八，县一百七十三，户三十一万一千四百。
丹阳郡汉置。
统县十一，户五万一千五百。
建鄴本秣陵，孙氏改为建业。
武帝平吴，以为秣陵。
太康三年，分秣陵北为建鄴，改业为鄴。
江宁太康二年，分建鄴置。
丹杨丹杨山多赤柳，在西也。
于湖芜湖永世溧阳溧水所出。
江乘句容有茅山。
translation: 
In the eleventh year, Yingbu was killed, and the prince Liu Chang was made King of Huainan, and Liu Bi was granted the title of King of Wu. The two feudal states occupied all of Yangzhou.
In the 16th year of Emperor Wen's reign, Huainan was divided into two counties: Lujiang and Hengshan.
In the fourth year of Emperor Jing's reign, the prince Liu Fei was granted the title of King of Jiangdu. Zhang and Kuaiji counties were owned by the King of Jiangdu, but he did not get Yuzhang.
Emperor Wu changed the name of Jiangdu to Guangling, named the prince Liu Xu King of Guangling and belonged to Xuzhou.
In the second year of Yuanfeng, the name of Zhang was changed to Danyang, and Huainan was renamed to Jiujiang.
Later, Emperor Mo Shun divided Kuaiji into Wu County, and Yangzhou governed the six counties of Kuaiji, Danyang, Wu, Yuzhang, Jiujiang, and Lujiang. Liu'an was abolished and merged into Lujiang County.
During the Xingping reign of Emperor Xian, Sun planned to divide Yuzhang into Luling County.
Sun Quan also divided Yuzhang into Poyang County and Danyang into Xindu County.
Sun Liang also divided Yuzhang into Linchuan County and Kuaiji into Linhai County.
Sun Xiu also divided Kuaiji into Jian'an County.
Sun Hao divided Kuaiji into Dongyang County, Wu into Wuxing County, Yuzhang, Luling, and Changsha into Ancheng County, Luling into Luling Southern Duwei, and Yangzhou governed the fourteen counties of Danyang, Yu, Heji, Xianxing, Xindu, Saixing, Quyin, Cu, Yizhang, Poyang, Linchuan, Ancheng, and southern Luling.
The area of ​​Lujiang and Jiujiang in Jiangxi, from the north of Hefei to Shouchun, all belonged to Wei.
After the Jin pacified Wu, the eleven counties of Ancheng, which belonged to Jingzhou, and Danyang were divided into Xuancheng, Wanling, Lingyang, Anwu, Jing, Guangde, Ningguo, Huai'an, Shicheng, Lincheng, and Chungu were set up as Xuancheng County, which also took charge of Wanling and Deng. The new capital was renamed Xinan County, and the southern part of Luling was renamed Nankang County.
Yangzhou governs a total of eighteen counties, 173 counties, and 311,400 households.
Danyang County setting.
It oversees 11 counties and 51,500 households.
Jian Yeben Moling was renamed Jianye by the Sun family.
When Emperor Wu was placed in power to pacify Wu, it was called Moling.
In the third year of Taikang's reign, the northern part of Moling was divided into Jianye and the city was renamed Ye.
In the second year of Taikang in Jiangning, it was separated from Jianye.
Danyang Danyang Mountain has many red willows in its west.
Yuhu Wuhu Yongshi Liyang Lishui originates from here.
Jiangcheng Jurong has Maoshan.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
湖熟秣陵
宣城郡太康二年置。
统县十一，户二万三千五百。
宛陵侯相。
彭泽聚在西南。
宣城陵阳淮水出东北入江。
仙人陵阳子明所居。
安吴临城石城泾春谷孝武改春为阳。
广德宁国怀安
淮南郡秦置九江郡。
汉以为淮南国，汉武帝置为九江郡。
武帝改为淮南郡。
统县十六，户三万三千四百。
寿春成德下蔡义城西曲阳平阿有涂山。
历阳全椒阜陵汉明帝时沦为麻湖。
钟离故州来邑。
合肥逡遒阴陵当涂古涂山国。
东城乌江
庐江郡汉置。
统县十，户四千二百。
阳泉舒故国，有桐乡。
灊天柱山在南，有祠。
皖寻阳居巢桀死于此。
临湖襄安龙舒六故六国。
毗陵郡吴分会稽无锡已西为屯田，置典农校尉。
太康二年，省校尉为毗陵郡。统县七，户一万二千。
丹徒故硃方。
曲阿故云阳。
武进延陵毗陵既阳无锡有磨山、春申君祠。
吴郡汉置。
translation: 
Hushu Moling
Xuancheng County was established in the second year of Zuo Chen.
Oversaw eleven counties with 23,500 properties.
Wanling Houxiang.
Peng Ze gathered in its southwest.
The Lingyang Huai River in Xuancheng flows into the Yangtze River in its northeastern part.
The place where the immortal Lingyang Ziming lived.
Anwu Lincheng Shicheng Jingchungu Xiaowu changed Chun to Yang.
Guangde Ningguo Huaian
Huainan County was transferred to Jiujiang County during the Qin Dynasty.
The desert was established as Huainan Kingdom, and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty established it as Jiujiang County.
Emperor Wu of Jin Dynasty changed it to Huainan County.
It oversees sixteen counties and 33,400 households.
Shouchun Chengde went to the west of Cai Yicheng and went to Yangping to Mount Ayoutu.
During the reign of Emperor Ming Mo of Fuling in Quanjiao, Liyang, it was reduced to Mahu.
Zhongli is located in Seiyi, Jiuzhou.
Hefei's Qiu Yin Mausoleum is located in the ancient Tushan Kingdom.
Shucheng Wujiang River
Lujiang County was set up by the Han Dynasty.
It oversees ten counties and 4,200 households.
Yangquan is my hometown, and there is Tongxiang.
There is a temple in the south of Zhitianzhu Mountain.
Falling into the sun and living in the nest, Jie died here.
Linhu, Xiang'an, Longshu, Liuyuan and Liuguo.
Wu of Piling County divided the land west of Kuaiji and Wuxi as farmland and established Dian Nongxiaowei.
In the second year of Seikang, the school captain was abolished and replaced by Piling County to take charge of seven counties and 12,000 households.
Dan Tu is old Zhu Fang.
Qu A Jiu Yunyang.
The Yanling Mausoleum of Wujin is adjacent to the Youli Mountain and Chunshen Jun Temple in Wuxi.
Wu Junhan setting.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
统县十一，户二万五千。
吴故国。
具区在西。
嘉兴海盐盐官钱唐武林山、武林水所出。
富阳桐庐建德寿昌海庐娄吴兴郡吴置。统县十，户二万四千。
乌程临安余杭武康。故防风氏国。
东迁于潜有潜水。
故鄣安吉原乡长城
会稽郡秦置。
统县十，户三万。
山阴会稽山在南，上有禹冢。
上虞有仇亭，舜避丹硃于此地。
余姚有句余山在南。
句章鄞有鲒埼亭。
鄮始宁剡永兴诸暨
东阳郡吴置。
统县九，户一万二千。
长山有赤松子庙。
永康乌伤吴宁太末信安丰安定阳遂昌
新安郡吴置。
统县六，户五千。
始新遂安黝歙海宁黎阳
临海郡吴置。
统县八，户一万八千。
章安临海始丰永宁宁海松阳安固横阳
建安郡故秦闽中郡，汉高帝五年以立闽越王。
及武帝灭之，徙其人，名为东冶，又更名东城。
后汉改为候官都尉，及吴置建安郡。
统县七，户四千三百。
建安吴兴东平建阳将乐邵武延平
translation: 
It oversees 11 counties and 25,000 households.
Wu's hometown.
The tool area is in its west.
Jiaxing Haiyan Yanguan Qian Gunda Mat Industry is the birthplace of Wu Yekuang.
Xuan Zhou's face, Qu Shouchang, Yu Lou, Wuxing County, Wu Zhi. It oversees ten counties and 24,000 households.
Wucheng, Lin'an, Yuhang, Wukang, the old Fangfeng Kingdom.
Shu moved to the potential and dived.
The Great Wall in Anji County, Guzhang
Kuaiji County pot setting.
Oversees ten counties and 30,000 households.
Shanyin Kuaiji Mountain is in the south, and there are area tombs on the mountain.
There is Qiuting Pavilion in Shangyu, where Shun took refuge from Danzhu.
Yuyao said that Yushan is in its south.
In Juzhang Yin there is Qixiao Pavilion.
Luan Shining Shan Yongxing Zhuji
Wu Zhi, Dongyang County.
Under the jurisdiction of nine counties, there are 12,000 properties.
There is Chisongzi Temple in Changshan.
Yongkang Wushang Wu Ning Tai Mo Xin'an Feng An Ding Yang Suichang
Xin'an County Xingzhi.
Oversaw six counties and 5,000 households.
Shixin Sui'an Yishe Haining Liyang
Wu Zhi, Linhai County.
It oversees eight counties and 18,000 households.
Zhang'an Linhai Shifeng Yongning Ninghai Songyang Angu Hengyang
Jian'an County was originally the Minzhong County of the Qin Dynasty. In the fifth year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, he established the Minyue King.
During the reign of Emperor Wu, the King of Minyue was eliminated and the people moved here. It was called Dongye and then renamed Dongcheng.
In the Later Han Dynasty, it was changed to the title of Duwei, and in the Wu Dynasty, Jian'an County was established.
It oversees seven counties and 4,300 households.
Jian'an Wuxing Cambodia Ping Jianyang General Le Shao Wu Yanping


Chunk 14: 
original: 
晋安郡太康三年置。
统县八，户四千三百。
原丰新罗宛平同安候官罗江晋安温麻
豫章郡汉置。
统县十六，户三万五千。
南昌海昏新淦建城望蔡永修建昌吴平豫章彭泽艾康乐丰城新吴宜丰钟陵
临川郡吴置。
统县十，户八千五百。
临汝西丰南城东兴南丰永成宜黄安浦西宁新建
鄱阳郡吴置。统县八，户六千一百。
广晋鄱阳乐安余汗鄡阳历陵葛阳晋兴
庐陵郡吴置。
统县十，户一万二千二百。
西昌高昌石阳巴丘南野东昌遂兴吉阳兴平阳丰
南康郡太康三年置。
统县五，户一千四百。
赣雩都平固南康揭阳
惠帝元康元年，有司奏，荆、揭二州疆土广远，统理尤难，于是割扬州之豫章、鄱阳、庐陵、临川、南康、建安、晋安、荆州之武昌、桂阳、安成，合十郡，因江水之名而置江州。
永兴元年，分庐江之寻阳、武昌之柴桑二县置寻阳郡，属江州，分淮南之乌江、历阳二县置历阳郡。
translation: 
Jin'an County was established in the third year of Taikang.
It oversees eight counties and 4,300 households.
Former Feng Xinluo Wanping Tongan Marquis Luojiang Jinan Wenma
Yuzhang County sculpture setting.
It oversees sixteen counties and 35,000 households.
Nanchang Haihun
Wu Zhi, Linchuan County.
It oversees ten counties and 8,500 households.
Linru, Fengnan City, Shuxingnan, Fengyi, Huanganpu, Xining, newly built Poyang County Wu.
It oversees eight counties and 6,100 households.
Guangjin, Poyang, Le'an, Yuhan, Shanyang, Liling Mausoleum, Geyang, Jinxing
Wu Zhi, Luling County.
It oversees ten counties and 12,200 households.
Xichang Gaochang Shiyang Baqiu Nanye Dongchang Suixing Jiyangxingpingyangfeng
It was established in the third year of Taikang in Nankang County.
It oversees five counties and 1,400 households.
The capital of Gan and Yu pacified Nankang and Jieyang
In the first year of Yuankang, Emperor Hui, the relevant departments reported that the territory of Jing and Jie was vast and difficult to manage, so they divided Yangzhou into Yuzhang, Poyang, Luling, Linchuan, Nankang, Jian'an, Jin'an, and Jingzhou's Wuchang, Guiyang, and Ancheng, a total of ten counties, and established Jiangzhou after the name of the river.
In the first year of Yongxing, Xunyang County in Luhong and Chaisang County in Wuchang were divided into Xunyang County, which belonged to Jiangzhou. Wujiang and Liyang counties in Huainan were divided into Liyang County.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
又以周创义讨石冰，割吴兴之阳羡并长城县之北乡置义乡、国山、临津并阳羡四县，又分丹阳之永世置平陵及永世，凡六县，立义兴郡，以表纪之功，并属扬州。
又以毗陵郡封东海王世子毗，避毗讳，改为晋陵。
怀帝永嘉元年，又以豫章之彭泽县属寻阳郡。
愍帝立，避帝讳改建鄴为建康。
元帝渡江，建都扬州，改丹阳太守为尹，江州又置新蔡郡。
寻阳郡又置九江、上甲二县，寻又省九江县入寻阳。
是时司、冀、雍、凉、青、并、兗、豫、幽、平诸州皆沦没，江南所得但有扬、荆、湘、江、梁、益、交、广，其徐州则有过半，豫州惟得谯城而已。
明帝太宁元年，分临海立永嘉郡，流永宁、安固、松阳、横阳等四县，而扬州统丹阳、吴郡、吴兴、新安、东阳、临海、永嘉、宣城、义兴、晋陵十一郡。
自中原乱离，遗黎南渡，并侨置牧司在广陵，丹徒南城，非旧土也。
及胡寇南侵，淮南百姓皆渡江。
成帝初，苏峻、祖约为乱于江淮，胡寇又大至，百姓南渡者转多，乃于江南侨立淮南郡及诸县，又于寻阳侨置松滋郡，遥隶扬州。
咸康四年，侨置魏郡、广川、高阳、堂邑等诸郡，并所统县并寄居京邑，改陵阳为广阳。
孝武宁康二年，又分永嘉郡之永宁县置乐成县。
是时上党百姓南渡，侨立上党郡为四县，寄居芜湖。
寻又省上党郡为县，又罢襄城郡为繁昌县，并以属淮南。
安帝义熙八年，省寻阳县入柴桑县，柴桑仍为郡，后又省上甲县入彭泽县。
旧江州督荆州之竟陵郡，及何无忌为刺史，表以竟陵去州辽远，去江陵三百里，荆州所立绥安郡人户入境，欲资此郡助江滨戍防，以竟陵郡还荆州。
又司州之弘农、扬州之松滋二郡寄在寻阳，人户难居，并宜建督。
translation: 
Because Zhou Chuang first proposed to conquer Shi Bing, he divided Yangxian in Xing County and Beixiang in Changcheng County and set up four counties: Yixiang, Guoshan, Linjin and Yangxian. He also divided Yongshi in Danyang into Pingling and Yongshi, a total of six counties, and set up Yixing County to commend Dandan's contribution. These counties all belong to Yangzhou.
Piling County was also granted to Prince Pi of the East China Sea, and was renamed Jinling to avoid Sima Pi's taboo.
In the first year of Yongjia reign of Emperor Huai, Pengze County in Yuzhang belonged to Xunyang County.
After Emperor Min ascended the throne, he changed the name of Jianye to Jiankang to avoid the imperial taboo.
Emperor Yuan crossed the river and established his capital in Yangzhou. He changed the prefect of Danyang to Danzhiyin, and established Xincai County in Jiangzhou.
Xunyang County established Jiujiang and Shangjia counties, and then abolished Jiujiang County and merged it into Xunyang.
At that time, the Si, Ji, Yong, Liang, Qing, Bing, Yan, Yu, You, and Ping prefectures were all occupied. The resulting area south of the Yangtze River was only the Yang, Xing, Bao, Hong, Liang, Yi, Kui, and Lu prefectures. More than half of the rest of the local areas were occupied, and Yuzhou only occupied Qiaocheng.
In the first year of Emperor Ming's reign, Yongjia County was divided into prisons to oversee the four counties of Yongning, Angu, Songyang, and Hengyang. Yangzhou administered the eleven counties of Danyang, Wujun, Wuxing, Xin'an, Dongyang, Linhai, Yongjia, Xuancheng, Yixing, and Jinling.
Since the war and division of the Central Plains, people were sent south to cross the Yangtze River and established overseas in Lulu, and Chunan City was not the original area.
When the Hu invaders invaded south, the people of Huainan all crossed the Yangtze River.
In the early years of Emperor Cheng's reign, Fu Ze and Dan Bao caused trouble in the Liao and Jin areas, and Hu bandits came in large numbers. More and more people were crossing south, and they settled in Lusu and other counties south of the Yangtze River. They also established Songzi County in Xunyang, which belonged to Yangye.
In the fourth year of Shengchen's reign, Qiao established Weijun, Guang, Gaoyang, Tangyi and other counties, and all the counties under his jurisdiction settled in Jingyi. Lingyang was renamed Guangyang.
In the second year of Xiaowu Ningkang, Yongning County of Yongjia County was divided into Lecheng County.
At that time, the people of Shangdang crossed the Yangtze River and established Shangdang County, which consists of four counties, and settled in Wuhu.
Soon Shangdang County was abolished as Shangdang County, and Xiangcheng County was abolished as Fanchang County. Both counties belonged to Huainan County.
In the eighth year of Yixi reign of Emperor An, Xunyang County was abolished and transferred to Chaisang County. Chaisang remained a county. Later, Shangjia County was abolished and transferred to Pengze County.
In the old Jiangzhou, Jingling County was in charge of Jingzhou, and when He Wuji was appointed governor, the above table states: Since Jingling is far away from the state capital, three hundred miles away from Jiangling, the residents of Sui'an County established by Jingzhou moved into the country, and they wanted to rely on Jingling County to help Jiangbin's defense, so Jingling County was returned to Jingzhou.
There are also two counties, Hongnong from Sizhou and Songzi from Yangzhou, who live in Xunyang. They live in mixed households, so they should be appointed governors.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
安帝从之。
后又省松滋郡为松滋县，弘农郡为弘农县，并属寻阳郡。
交州。
案《禹贡》扬州之域，是为南越之土。
秦始皇即略定扬越，以谪戍卒五十万人守五岭。
自北徂南，入越之道，必由岭峤，时有五处，故曰五岭。
后使任嚣、赵他攻越，略取陆梁地，遂定南越，以为桂林、南海、象等三郡，非三十六郡之限，乃置南海尉以典之，所谓东南一尉也。
汉初，以岭南三郡及长沙、豫章封吴芮为长沙王。
十一年，以南武侯织为南海王。
陆贾使还，拜赵他为南越王，割长沙之南三郡以封之。
武帝元鼎六年，讨平吕嘉，以其地为南海、苍梧、郁林、合浦、日南、九真、交趾七郡，盖秦时三郡之地。
元封中，又置儋耳、珠崖二郡，置交趾刺史以督之。
昭帝始元五年，罢儋耳并珠崖。
元帝初元三年，又罢珠崖郡。
translation: 
An Di agreed to He Wuji's suggestion.
Later, Songzi County was abolished and became Songzi County, and Hongnong County became Hongnong County, both of which belonged to Xunyang County.
Jiaozhou.
"Yu Gong" records that it is the Yangzhou area, which is the land of South Vietnam.
After Qin Shihuang captured and pacified Yangyue, he used 500,000 relegated border guards to guard Wuling.
From north to south, the road into Yuedi must pass through steep peaks. There were five such peaks at that time, so they were called Wuling.
Later, he sent Ren Xiao and Zao him to attack Vietnam and captured Luliang, so they pacified South Vietnam and set up three counties, including Guilin, Nanhai and Xiang, which were not included in the thirty-six counties. Nanhai Lieutenant was set up to take charge of the three counties, which is the so-called Southeast First Lieutenant.
In the early Han Dynasty, the three counties of Lingnan, Changsha and Yuzhang were granted to Wu Rui and he was named the King of Changsha.
In the eleventh year, he appointed Marquis Zhi of Nanwu as King of Nanhai.
Lu Maidu brought Nanyue back to the Central Plains, appointed Zhao Zhao as the King of Nanyue, and divided the three counties south of Changsha and gave them to him.
In the sixth year of Yuanding, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, he conquered and pacified Lu Jia, and set his territory as the seven counties of Nanhai, Cangwu, Yulin, Hepu, Rinan, Jiuzhen and Jiaoxi, which were the three counties of Lingnan in the Qin Dynasty.
During the Yuanfeng period, Dan'er and Zhuya counties were established, and Jiaotu governor was appointed to supervise them.
In the fifth year of Emperor Zhao's reign, Dan'er was abolished and merged into Zhuya.
In the third year of Emperor Yuan's reign, Zhuya County was abolished.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
后汉马援平定交部，始调立城郭置井邑。
顺帝永和九年，交趾太守周敞求立为州，朝议不许，即拜敞为交趾刺史。
桓帝分立高兴郡，灵帝改曰高凉。
建安八年，张津为刺史，土燮交趾太守，共表立为州，乃拜津为交州牧。
十五年，移居番禺，诏以边州使持节，郡给鼓吹，以重城镇，加以九锡六佾之舞。
吴黄武五年，割南海、苍梧、郁林三郡立广州，交趾、日南、九真、合浦四郡为交州。
戴良为刺史，值乱不得入，吕岱击平之，复还并交部。
赤乌五年，复置珠崖部。
永安七年，复以前三郡立广州。
及孙皓，又立新昌、武平、九德三郡。蜀以李恢为建宁太守，遥领交州刺史。晋平蜀，以蜀建宁太守霍弋遥领交州，得以便宜选用长吏。
平吴后，省珠崖入合浦。
translation: 
The turtle constituency Yaoping settled in the Ministry of Transport and began to set up Jingyi for local city adjustment.
In the sixth year of Emperor Shun's Yonghe reign, Zhou Chang, the prefect of Jiaotu, requested to establish the county as a state. After the court's review, the request was not approved, so he immediately appointed Zhou Chang as the governor of Jiaosha.
Emperor Huan established it as Gaoliang County, and Emperor Ling changed it to Gaoliang County.
In the eighth year of Jian'an, Zhang Jin was appointed governor and Shi Xie was appointed governor of Jiaoshai. They jointly requested that the county be established as a state, so Zhang Jin was appointed as pastor of Jiaozhou.
In the fifteenth year, the prefecture moved to Fanmo. The imperial edict granted Chijie to the governor of the outlying prefecture, and the county granted him the music of advocacy to pay attention to the town, and also granted the dance of Jiuxi and Liuyi.
In the fifth year of Wu Dongji's reign, the four counties of Lufu, Dongyuan, Yuta, and Zhizhe were divided into four counties to build Luye, and the four counties of Mandan, Danzhi, Lichen, and Sui were designated as Jiaozhou.
Shu Liang was appointed governor, but was unable to enter the country due to war. Lu Dai attacked to quell the war, and returned Kuidian.
In the fifth year of Huwu, Suya married again.
In the seventh year of the prime minister's reign, the three former counties were established in Guangzhou.
When Sun Hao arrived, three counties were established: Li, Niu, and Nu. Shu appointed Su as the governor of Pan, and led Kuiye as the governor from afar. After pacifying Shu, he appointed Huo Yiyao, the prefect of Jianning in Shu, to lead Jiaozhou. He could choose his own officials first and report them later.
After Jinping County, it is appropriate to cancel the merger of Xia Tong.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
交州统郡七，县五十三，户二万五千六百。
合浦郡汉置。
统县六，户二千。
合浦南平荡昌徐闻毒质珠官
交趾郡汉置。
统县十四，户一万二千。
龙编苟漏望海娄西于武宁硃鸢曲易
交兴北带稽徐安定南定海平
新昌郡吴置。
统县六，户三千。
麋泠妇人征侧为主处，马援平之。
嘉宁吴定封山临西西道
武平郡吴置。
统县七，户五千。
武宁武兴进山根宁安武扶安封溪
九真郡汉置。
统县七，户三千。
胥浦移风津梧建初常乐扶乐松原
九德郡吴置，周时越常氏地。
统县八，无户。
九德咸驩南陵阳遂扶苓曲胥浦阳都洨
日南郡秦置象郡，汉武帝改名焉。
统县五，户六百。
象林自此南有四国，其人皆云汉人子孙，今有铜柱，亦是汉置此为界。
贡金供税也。
卢容象郡所居。
硃吾西卷比景
广州。
案《禹贡》扬州之域，秦末赵他所据之地。
及汉武帝，以其地为交址郡。
translation: 
Bianye takes charge of seven counties, fifty-three counties, and 25,600 households.
Hepu County setting.
Oversaw six counties and 2,000 households.
Hepu, Nanping, Dangchang, Xu Wen, toxic Zhuguan
Cochin County election settings.
It oversees 14 counties and 12,000 households.
Long Bian Gou Lu Wang Hai Lou west Yu Wu Ning Zhu Yuan Quyi
Jiaoxing North Belt Jixu Anding South Dinghai Pingchao
Xinchang County Xingzhi.
Take charge of six counties.
The Mi Ling woman conquered the place where she was in power and pacified it.
Jianing Wuding Fengshan Linxi West Road
Wuping County Xingzhi.
Oversaw seven counties and five thousand households.
Wuning Wuxing Jinshangen Ning'an Wufu'an Fengxi
Jiuzhen county luck setting.
He oversees seven counties and 3,000 households.
Xupu Yifengjin Wujianchu Changle Fule Songyuan
Jiude County was established, and it was the land of Yue Chang family in Zhou Dynasty.
It governs eight counties and has no households under its jurisdiction.
Jiude Xianhuan Nanlingyang Suifulingquxu Puyangduji
Rinan County was established as Xiang County, and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty changed its name to this.
Oversees five counties and 600 households.
There are four countries south of Xianglin from here, and the people there claim to be descendants of the immigrants. Today there are bronze pillars, which were also chosen to be erected in Qianbao as the boundary.
Pay taxes.
Lu Rongxiang County Government Office.
Zhu Wu's Western Volume Bijing
Guangzhou.
"Yu Gong" records it as the Yangzhou area, the land occupied by Zhao in the late Qin Dynasty.
By the time of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Zaobao was designated as Jiaotou County.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
至吴黄武五年，分交州之南海、苍梧、郁林、高梁四郡立为广州，俄复旧。
永安六年，复分交州置广州，分合浦立合浦北部，以都尉领之。
孙皓分郁林立桂林郡。
及太康中，吴平，遂以荆州始安、始兴、临贺三郡来属。
合统郡十，县六十八，户四万三千一百二十。
南海郡秦置。
统县六，户九千五百。
番禺四会增城博罗龙川平夷
临贺郡吴置。
统县六，户二千五百。
临贺谢沐冯乘封阳兴安富川
始安郡吴置。
统县七，户六千。
始安始阳平乐荔浦常安熙平永丰始兴郡吴置。
统县七，户五千。
曲江桂阳始兴含洭浈阳中宿阳山苍梧郡汉置。
统县十二，户七千七百。
广信端溪高要建陵新宁猛陵鄣平农城元谿临允都罗武城
郁林郡秦置桂林郡，武帝更名。
统县九，户六千。
布山阿林新邑晋平始建郁平领方武熙安广
桂林郡吴置。
统县八，户二千。
translation: 
In the fifth year of Wu Huangwu's reign, the four counties of Nanhai, Cangwu, Yulin and Gaoliang were separated from Jiaozhou and established in Guangzhou, which soon returned to its original state.
In the sixth year of Yong'an, Jiaozhou was once again divided into Guangzhou, and Hepu County was divided into the northern part of Hepu, and the captain was sent to take charge of it.
Sun Hao divided Yulin into Guilin County.
During the Taikang period, Wu was pacified, and the three counties of Shi'an, Shixing and Linhe in Jingzhou were assigned to Guangzhou.
It governs ten counties, sixty-eight counties, and 43,120 households.
Nanhai County was established in Qin Dynasty.
It oversees six counties and 9,500 households.
Panyu Sihui Zengcheng Boluo Longchuan flattened
Wu Zhi, Linhe County.
Oversaw six counties and 2,500 households.
Congratulations to Xie Mu, Feng Cheng, Feng Yang, Xing'an, Fuchuan
The star of Shi'an County is located.
Oversaw seven counties and six thousand households.
Shi'an, Shiyang, Qianle, Lipu, Chang'an, Xi, Qianyong, Shixing prefectures and counties were established.
Oversaw seven counties and five thousand households.
Qujiang, Guiyang began to flourish, and Hanyuyan was established in Yangzhong, Suyang, Cangwu County and Han Dynasty.
It oversees twelve counties with seven hundred households.
Guangxin Duanxi Gaoyao Jianling Tomb Xinning Mengling Zhangping Nongcheng Yuanxi Linyundu Luowucheng
Yulin County was established as Guilin County during the Qin Dynasty, and Emperor Mowu changed its name.
Oversaw nine counties and six thousand households.
Bushan Alin Xinyi Jinping was founded Yuping led Fangwu Xi Anguang
Guilin County was established.
He oversees eight counties and 2,000 households.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
潭中武丰粟平羊平龙刚夹阳武城军腾
高凉郡吴置。
统县三，户二千。
安宁高凉思平
高兴郡吴置。
统县五，户一千二百。
广化海安化平黄阳西平
宁浦郡吴置。
统县五，户一千二百二十。
宁浦连道吴安昌平平山
武帝后省高兴郡。
怀帝永嘉元年，又以临贺、始兴、始安三郡凡二十县为湘州。
元帝分郁林立晋兴郡。
成帝分南海立东官郡，以始兴、临贺二郡还蜀荆州。
穆帝分苍梧立晋康、新宁、永平三郡。
哀帝太和中置新安郡，安帝分东官立义安郡，恭帝分南海立新会郡。
translation: 
Tanzhong Wu Feng Su Ping Sheep Ping Long Gang Jia Yang Wucheng Jun Teng
Wu Zhi, Gaoliang County.
Take charge of three counties and 2,000 households.
Tranquility, Gaoliang, Siping
Happy County Wu Zhi.
It oversees five counties and 1,200 households.
Guanghua Haian Huaqian Moyang Xiping
Wu Zhi, Ningpu County.
It oversees five counties and 1,220 households.
Ningpu Link Road Wu'anping Mountain
Emperor Wu later abolished Gaoxing County.
In the first year of Yongjia reign of Emperor Huai, the three counties of Linhe, Shixing and Shi'an and a total of 20 counties were established as Xiangzhou.
Emperor Yuan divided Yulin into Jinxing County.
Emperor Cheng divided Nanhai into Shuguan County, and returned Shixing and Linhe counties to Jingzhou.
Emperor Mu divided Cangwu into three counties: Jinkang, Xinning, and Yonghu.
During the Taihe period of Emperor Ai, Xin'an County was established, Emperor An divided Dongguan into Yi'an County, and Emperor Gong divided Nanhai into Xinhui County.


