Chunk 0: 
original: 
袁绍袁绍字本初，汝南阳人，司徒汤之孙。
父成，五官中郎将，壮健好交结，大将军梁冀以下莫不善之。
绍少为郎，除濮阳长，遭母忧去官。
三年礼竟，追感幼孤，又行父服。
服阕，徙居洛阳。
绍有姿貌威容，爱士养名。
既累世台司，宾客所归，加倾心折节，莫不争赴其庭，士无贵贱，与之抗礼，辎軿柴毂，填接街陌。
内官皆恶之。
中常侍赵忠言于省内曰： 袁本初坐作声价，好养死士，不知此兒终欲何作。
叔父太傅隗闻而呼绍，以忠言责之，绍终不改。
后辟大将军何进掾，为侍御史、虎贲中郎将。
中平五年，初置西园八校尉，以绍为佐军校尉。
灵帝崩，绍劝何进征董卓等众军，胁太后诛诸宦官，转绍司隶校尉。
语已见《何进传》。
translation: 
◆Yuan Shao Zhuan, Yuan Shao, courtesy name Benchu, was born in Ruyang, Runan, and was the grandson of Situ Yuan Tang.
Yuan Shao's father, Yuan Cheng, had served as a lieutenant general with five senses. He was physically strong and liked to make friends. From the time of the great general Liang Ji, he was always friends with him.
Yuan Shao served as a Langguan when he was young, and was later appointed as the Chief of Puyang. When his mother died, he resigned from the official position.
After serving three years of funeral service, Yuan Shao recalled and lamented that he had lost his father since childhood and had to attend the funeral service for his father.
After the mourning period expired, he moved to Luoyang.
Yuan Shao was elegant, beautiful, kind to others, and focused on reputation.
Yuan Shao's ancestors had served as three ministers for generations, and the guests came to join him. In addition, Yuan Shao lowered his status to befriend him, so all the scholars rushed to join him. Regardless of whether the scholars who came were high or low, Yuan Shaoyu and others were equal in etiquette. Various vehicles of visiting guests crowded the streets and alleys.
The courtiers around the emperor were disgusted with him.
Zhongchang Shi Zaozhong said in the ban: Yuan Benchu ​​does things to enhance his reputation and value, and likes to raise people who are not afraid of death. I don't know what this kid wants to do!
After hearing this, Yuan Shao's uncle Taifu Yuan Wei called Yuan Shao and reprimanded him with the words of Zhong Zhong, but Yuan Shao never changed.
Later, Yuan Shao was summoned by General He Jin as a subordinate officer and served as Shi Yushi and Huben Zhonglang General.
In the fifth year of Zhongping, the imperial court began to set up eight Xiyuan captains and appointed Yuan Shao as the assistant military captain.
When Emperor Ling died, Yuan Shao persuaded He Jin to recruit Dong Zhuo and other troops and coerced the Queen Mother to kill all the eunuchs. He Jin transferred Yuan Shao to serve as the captain of the Sili school.
The incident has been recorded in "The Biography of He Jin".


Chunk 1: 
original: 
及卓将兵至，骑都尉太山鲍信说绍曰： 董卓拥制强兵，将有异志，今不早图，必为所制。
及其新至疲劳，袭之可禽也。
绍畏卓，不敢发。
顷之，卓议欲废立，谓绍曰： 天下之主，宜得贤明，每念灵帝，令人愤毒。
董侯似可，今当立之。
绍曰： 今上富于春秋，未有不善宣于天下。若公违礼任情，废嫡立庶，恐众议未安。
卓案剑吆绍曰： 竖子敢然！
天下之事，岂不在我？
我欲为之，谁敢不从！
绍诡对曰： 此国之大事，请出与太傅议之 。
卓复言 刘氏种不足复遗。
绍勃然曰： 天下健者，岂惟董公！
横刀长揖径出。
悬节于上东门，而奔冀州。
董卓购募求绍。
translation: 
When Dong Zhuo led his army to the capital, Bao Xin, the cavalry captain from Taishan, persuaded Yuan Shao: If Dong Zhuo controls a powerful army, he will have the intention of rebelling. If we don't deal with it early, we will definitely be controlled by Dong Zhuo.
When Dong Zhuo had just arrived and the soldiers were tired, they attacked Dong Zhuo and captured him.
Yuan Shao was afraid of Dong Zhuo and did not dare to send troops.
Soon, Dong Zhuo discussed deposing the emperor and establishing a new emperor. He said to Yuan Shao: The monarch who rules the world should find a wise person. Every time I think of Emperor Ling, it makes me angry.
Marquis Dong seems to be okay, and he should be made emperor now.
Yuan Shao said: "The emperor is young now and has done nothing wrong to spread the news to the world. If you ignore etiquette and follow your own desires, abolish your legitimate heir and establish your concubine as emperor, I am afraid that everyone will not think it is appropriate."
Dong Zhuo put his sword in his hand and scolded Yuan Shao angrily, saying: How dare you talk like this!
Don’t I have the final say in everything in the world?
I want to do this, who dares to disobey!
Yuan Shao replied wittily: This is a national matter. Please go outside to discuss it with the Taifu.
Dong Zhuo also said: There are not enough descendants of the Liu family to keep.
Yuan Shao was furious and said: "You are the only one who is tyrannical in the world, Dong Gong!"
He laid out his sword, bowed to the end, and walked out.
He hung the talisman on the upper door and fled to Jizhou.
Dong Zhuo offered a reward for Yuan Shao's capture.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
时，侍中周珌、城门校尉伍琼为卓所信待，琼等阴为绍说卓曰： 夫废立大事，非常人所及。
袁绍不达大体，恐惧出奔，非有它志。
今急购之，势必为变。
袁氏树恩四世，门生故吏遍于天下，若收豪杰以聚徒众，英雄因之而起，则山东非公之有也。
不如赦之，拜一郡守，绍喜于免罪，必无患矣。
卓以为然，乃遣授绍勃海太守，封邟乡侯。
绍犹称兼司隶。
初平元年，绍遂以勃海起兵，与从弟后将军术、冀州牧韩馥、豫州刺史孔亻由、兗州刺史刘岱、陈留太守张邈、广陵太守张超、河内太守王匡、山阳太守袁遗、东郡太守桥瑁、济北相鲍信等同时俱起，众各数万，以讨卓为名。
绍与王匡屯河内，亻由屯颍川，馥屯鄴，余军咸屯酸枣，约盟，遥推绍为盟主。
绍自号车骑将军，领司隶校尉。
董卓闻绍起山东，乃诛绍叔父隗，及宗族在京师者，尽灭之。
translation: 
At that time, Secretary Zhou and Wu Qiong, the captain of the city gate school, were trusted by Dong Zhuo. Wu Qiong and others secretly interceded for Yuan Shao and persuaded Dong Zhuo: The important matter of deposing and establishing the emperor is not something ordinary people can participate in.
Yuan Shao didn't understand the overall situation and ran away in fear, not because he had other ideas.
Now the rush to put a reward on him will inevitably lead to sudden changes.
The four generations of the Yuan family have been generous and generous, and their disciples and former subordinates are all over the world. Once you recruit heroes, gather soldiers, and heroes rise, I am afraid that Taihang Shandong will no longer belong to you.
It is better to pardon Yuan Shao and make him a county guard. Yuan Shao will be happy to see that he is exempted from guilt, and there will be no disaster.
Dong Zhuo thought it was reasonable, so he sent someone to grant Yuan Shao the position of governor of Bohai and named him Marquis of Yunxiang.
In name, Yuan Shao also served as Sili Xiaowei.
In the first year of Chuping, Yuan Shao finally raised troops in Bohai. He and his cousin General Yuan Shu, Jizhou Mu Han Fu, Yuzhou Governor Kong Dian, Yanzhou Governor Liu Dai, Chenliu Governor Zhang Miao, Guangling Governor The governor Zhang Chao, the governor of Hanoi Wang Kuang, the governor of Shanyang Yuan Qian, the governor of Dongjun Qiao Mao, the prime minister of Jibei Bao Xin and others raised troops at the same time, with tens of thousands of troops each, under the banner of crusade against Dong Zhuo.
Yuan Shao and Wang Kuang were stationed in Hanoi, Kong Dian was stationed in Yingchuan, Han Fu was stationed in Ye County, and other armies were stationed in Suanzao, and they agreed to form an alliance, nominally recommending Yuan Shao as the leader of the alliance.
Yuan Shao claimed to be a general of chariots and cavalry, and was the commander of the Sili school.
When Dong Zhuo learned that Yuan Shao had raised troops in Shandong, he killed Yuan Shao's uncle Yuan Wei and all the Yuan clan in the capital.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
卓乃遣大鸿胪韩融、少府阴循、执金吾胡母班、将作大匠吴循、越骑校尉王瑰譬解绍等诸军。
绍使王匡杀班、王瓖、吴循等，袁术亦执杀阴循，惟韩融以名德免。
是时，豪杰既多附招，且感其家祸，人思为报，州郡蜂起，莫不以袁氏为名。
韩馥见人情归绍。忌其得众，恐将图己，常遣从事守绍门，不听发兵。
桥瑁乃诈作三公移书，传驿州郡，说董卓罪恶，天子危逼，企望义兵，以释国难。
馥于是方听绍举兵。
乃谋于众曰： 助袁氏乎？
助董氏乎？
治中刘惠勃然曰： 兴兵为国，安问袁！董？
馥意犹深疑于绍，每贬节军粮，欲使离散。
明年，馥将麹义反畔，馥与战失利。
绍既恨馥，乃与义相结。
绍客逢纪谓绍曰： 夫举大事，非据一州，无以自立。
今冀部强实，而韩馥庸才，可密要公孙瓚将兵南下，馥闻必骇惧。
并遣辩士为陈祸福，馥迫于仓卒，必可因据其位。
绍然之，益亲纪，即以书与瓚。
瓚遂引兵而至，外托讨董卓，而阴谋袭馥。
绍乃使外甥陈留高幹及颍川荀谌等说馥曰： 公孙瓚乘胜来南，而诸郡应之。
袁车骑引军东向，其意未可量也。
translation: 
Dong Zhuo then sent Da Honglu Han Rong, Shaofu Yin Xun, Zhi Jin Wu Hu Muban, General Wu Xun, the great craftsman, and Yue Qi Xiaowei Wang Quan to advise Yuan Shao and other armies.
Yuan Shao assigned Wang Kuang to kill Hu Muban, Wang Quan, Wu Xun and others. Yuan Shu also hunted and killed Yin Xun, but Han Rong was spared because of his high moral character and prestige.
When he was dispatched, most of the heroes joined Yuan Shao, and because his family was moved by the suffering, everyone wanted to avenge him, so troops from all prefectures and counties swarmed up, all under the banner of the Yuan family.
When Han Fu saw that people were turning to Yuan Shao, he was jealous of Yuan Shao's support and was afraid that he would use it against him. He often sent officers to guard Yuan Shao's gates to prevent him from sending troops.
Qiao Mao then pretended to be the Third Duke and sent documents to the prefectures and counties through the post, telling Dong Zhuo's crimes. The emperor was threatened and was in danger. He stood on tiptoe and hoped that the volunteers would eliminate the national disaster.
Han Fu then agreed with Yuan Shao to send troops.
Then Han Fu discussed with everyone and said: Are you helping the Yuan family?
Or help Dong?
During the war, Liu Hui said angrily: "The troops are sent for the sake of the country, so why should we take care of the Yuan family and the Dong family?"
However, Han Fu was still suspicious of Yuan Shao and often reduced military rations in an attempt to shake the morale of the army.
The next year, Han Fu's general Qu Yi rebelled. Han Fu fought with Qu Yi and lost.
Since Yuan Shao resented Han Fu, he befriended Qu Yi.
Yuan Shao's guests said to Yuan Shao at the right time: If you do a big business and don't occupy a state, you won't be able to gain a foothold.
Now Jizhou is powerful and abundant, but Han Fu's talent is mediocre, but he secretly asked Gongsun Zan to lead his army south. Han Fu would be frightened when he learned about it.
At the same time, an eloquent person was sent to tell Han Fu about the blessings and misfortunes. Han Fu was forced by unexpected events, so we can definitely take this opportunity to occupy his position.
Yuan Shao thought it was reasonable, got closer to Feng Ji, and immediately wrote to Gongsun Zan.
Gongsun Zan then led his troops, ostensibly to attack Dong Zhuo, but actually planned to secretly attack Han Fu.
Yuan Shao then sent his nephew Chen Liuren to Gao Gan and Ying! Xun Chen and others went to persuade Han Fu: Gongsun Zan took advantage of the victory to come south, and all the counties responded to Gongsun Zan.
General Yuan led his army eastward with unpredictable intentions.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
窃为将军危之。
馥惧，曰： 然则为之奈何？
谌曰： 君自料宽仁容众，为天下所附，孰与袁氏？
馥曰： 不如也。
临危吐决，智勇迈于人，又孰与袁氏？ 馥曰： 不如也。
世布恩德，天下家受其惠，又孰与袁氏？
馥曰： 不如也。
谌曰： 勃海虽郡，其实州也。
今将军资三不如之势，久处其上，袁氏一时之杰，必不为将军下也。
且公孙提燕、代之卒，其锋不可当。
夫冀州天下之重资，若两军并力，兵交城下，危亡可立而待也。
夫袁氏将军之旧，且为同盟。
当今之计，莫若举冀州以让袁氏，必厚德将军，公孙瓚不能复与之争矣。
是将军有让贤之名，而身安于太山也。
愿勿有疑。
馥素性恇怯，因然其计。
translation: 
We feel from the bottom of our hearts that you are in danger.
Han Fu was afraid and said, "In this case, what should I do?"
Xun Chen said: "Evaluate for yourself, how is he compared to Yuan Shaolai in terms of generosity and kindness, tolerance of all kinds of people, and making people in the world surrender?"
Han Fu said: I am not as good as him.
Gou Chen asked: "In the face of danger, you can unexpectedly win, and your resourcefulness and courage are far beyond ordinary people. How do you compare with Yuan Shaolai in this regard?" Han Fu said: I am not as good as him.
Xun Chen asked again: "You have extended your kindness from generation to generation and benefited every family in the world. How do you compare with Yuan Shaolai?"
Han Fu replied: I am not as good as him.
Xun Chen said: Although Bohai is a county, it is actually equivalent to a state.
Now General, you are in a situation where you are not as good as Yuan Shao in three aspects, but you have been above Yuan Shao for a long time. Yuan Shao is a hero of this generation, and he will definitely not want to be below you.
Moreover, Gongsun Zan led the soldiers of Yan and Dai, and his military front was irresistible.
Jizhou is an important city in the world. If the two armies join forces to attack and meet under the city, Jizhou will be in danger immediately.
Yuan Shao is the general's old friend and his ally.
The current solution is to give up the entire Jizhou to Yuan Shao. Yuan Shao will definitely be very grateful to you, and Gongsun Zan will no longer be able to fight with you.
In this way, the general has a reputation of giving way to the worthy, and his position is more stable than Mount Tai.
I hope you don't have any doubts.
Han Fu had always been timid, so he agreed to Xun Chen's plan.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
馥长史耿武、别驾闵纯、骑都尉沮授闻而谏曰： 冀州虽鄙，带甲百万，谷支十年。
袁绍孤客穷军，仰我鼻息，譬如婴兒在股掌之上，绝其哺乳，立可饿杀。
奈何欲以州与之？
馥曰： 吾衣氏故吏，且才不如本初。
度德而让，古人所贵，诸君独何病焉？
先是，馥从事赵浮、程涣将强弩万人屯孟津，闻之，率兵驰还，请以拒绍，馥又不听。
乃避位，出居中常侍赵忠故舍，遣子送印绶以让绍。
绍遂领冀州牧，承制以馥为奋威将军，而无所将御。
引沮授为别驾，因谓授曰： 今贼臣作乱，朝廷迁移，吾历世受宠，志竭力命，兴复汉室。
然齐桓非夷吾不能成霸，句践非范蠡无以存国。
今欲与卿戮力同心，共安社稷，将何以匡济之乎？
授进曰： 将军弱冠登朝，播名海内。
值为立之际，忠义奋发，单骑出奔，董卓怀惧，济河而北，勃海稽服。
拥一郡之卒，撮冀州之众，威陵河朔，名重天下。
若举军东向，则黄巾可埽；还讨黑山，则张燕可灭；回师北首，则公孙必禽；震胁戎狄，则匈奴立定。
横大河之北，合四州之地，收英雄之士，拥百万之众，迎大驾于长安，复宗庙于洛邑，号令天下，诛讨未服。
以此争锋，谁能御之！
比及数年，其功不难。
translation: 
Han Fu's chief historian Geng Wu, Biejia Min Chun, and Qi Duwei Jushou learned about it and dissuaded Han Fu, saying: Although Jizhou is small, there are millions of people who can wear armor and fight, and the food is enough to last ten years.
Yuan Shao, a stranger and an army in poverty, looks up to me like a baby in the palm of an adult. If he is not fed, he will starve to death immediately.
Why give Jizhou to him?
Han Fu said: I used to be a subordinate of the Yuan family, and my talents were not as good as those of Yuan Shao.
Assessing one's own virtue and being humble is what the ancients valued. Why do you feel bad?
Before that, Han Fu's subordinates Zhao Fu and Cheng Huan led 10,000 soldiers who could shoot hard bows to garrison Mengjin. Knowing this situation, they led the army back quickly and asked to resist Yuan Shao, but Han Fu did not listen.
Then Han Fu gave up his official position, moved out of his official residence and lived in the former home of Zhao Zhong, the official minister of the Central Military Commission, and sent his son to give Yuan Shao a seal and ribbon to give up his throne.
Yuan Shao then led Jizhou Mu and appointed Han Fu as General Fenwei in the name of the emperor, but he was not allowed to command the army.
Yuan Shao selected Ju Shou as his chariot, and then asked Ju Shou: "Now the treacherous ministers are causing trouble, and the emperor is wandering around." My family has been favored by the emperor for generations, and we are determined to use our strength and life to revitalize and restore the Liu Han world.
However, Duke Huan of Qi could not have achieved hegemony without Guan Zhong, and Gou Jian could not have preserved Yue without Fan Li.
Now I want to work with you to stabilize the country. What strategies can you use to correct me?
Jushou Jinyan said: The general was appointed by the imperial court before he was twenty years old, and his reputation spread throughout the country.
When it was time for Dong Zhuo to depose the emperor, the general became so loyal that he rode off alone, which filled Dong Zhuo with fear. You cross the Yellow River and head north, and the people of Bohai bow their heads and surrender.
You have an army in a county, gather the troops of Jizhou, control the north of the Yellow River with great power, and your reputation is respected by the world.
If we send troops to the east, we can wipe out the Yellow Turbans; if we return the army to attack Heishan, we can reduce Zhang Yan; if we turn our troops to the north, we will definitely capture Gongsun Zan; if we use force to intimidate the people in the Rongdi area, we can immediately pacify the Xiongnu.
Sweeping across the north of the Yellow River, merging the territories of four states, recruiting heroes and talents, and possessing millions of troops, he went to Chang'an to welcome the emperor, restored the ancestral temple in Luoyang, issued orders to the world, and conquered those who disobeyed.
With such conditions to decide the outcome, who can resist!
After a few years, there was no difficulty in building a career.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
绍喜曰： 此吾心也。
即表授为奋武将军，使监护诸将。
魏郡审配、钜鹿田丰，并以正直不得志于韩馥。
绍乃以丰为别驾，配为治中，甚见器任。
馥自怀猜惧，辞绍索去，往依张邈。
后绍遣使诣邈，有所计议，因共耳语。
馥时在坐，谓见图谋，无何，如厕自杀。
其冬，公孙瓚大破黄巾，还屯槃河，威震河北，冀州诸城无不望风响应。
绍乃自击之。
瓚兵三万，列为方阵，分突骑万匹，翼军左右，其锋甚锐。
绍先令曲义领精兵八百，强弩千张，以为前登。
瓚轻其兵少，纵骑腾之，义兵伏楯下，一时同发，瓚军大败，斩其所置冀州刺史严纲，获甲首千余级。
translation: 
Yuan Shao said happily: This is what I have been thinking about.
Immediately, the emperor appointed Ju Shou as General Fenwu and asked him to supervise the generals.
Shen Pei from Weijun and Tian Feng from Julu were not reused by Han Fu because of their integrity.
Yuan Shao regarded Tian Feng as his special commander and Shen Pei as his ruler, and he trusted and valued them very much.
Han Fu was filled with suspicion and fear, so he said goodbye to Yuan Shao and asked to leave, seeking refuge with Zhang Miao.
Later, Yuan Shao sent envoys to Zhang Miao to discuss matters, so the two whispered to each other.
Han Fu was present at the time and thought they were conspiring against him. Feeling desperate, he committed suicide in the toilet.
In the winter of Qian Nian, Gongsun Zan defeated the Yellow Turban Army and returned the army to garrison at Jiahe. This shocked the north of the Yellow River and all the cities in Jizhou responded to the news.
Yuan Shao then personally attacked Gongsun Zan.
Gongsun Zan's 30,000 troops formed a square formation, and another 10,000 cavalry were assigned as assault troops to guard both sides of the infantry. The force was very strong.
Yuan Shaoxian ordered Qu Yi to lead 800 elite soldiers and 1,000 archers who could shoot hard bows as the vanguard.
Gongsun Zan saw that Qu Yi's army was small and looked down upon him, so he let his cavalry rush towards him. Qu Yi's soldiers lay down under their shields and launched an attack at the same time. Gongsun Zan's army was defeated, and he killed Yan Gang, the Jizhou governor appointed by Gongsun Zan, and captured more than a thousand enemy heads.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
曲义追至界桥，瓚敛兵还战，义复破之，遂到瓚营，拔其牙门，余众皆走。
绍在后十数里，闻瓚已破，发鞍息马，唯卫帐下强弩数十张，大戟士百许人。
瓚散兵二千余骑卒至，围绍数重，射矢雨下。
田丰扶绍，使却入空垣。
绍脱兜鍪抵地，曰： 大丈夫当前斗死，而反逃垣墙间邪？
促使诸弩竞发，多伤瓚骑。
众不知是绍，颇稍引却。
会曲义来迎，骑乃散退。
三年，瓚又遣兵至龙凑挑战，绍复击破之。
瓚遂还幽州，不敢复出。
四年初，天子遣太仆赵岐和解关东，使各罢兵。
瓚因此以书譬绍曰： 赵太仆以周、邵之德，衔命来征，宣扬朝恩，示以和睦，旷若开云见日，何喜如之！
昔贾复、寇恂争相危害，遇世祖解纷，遂同舆并出。衅难既释，时人美之。
自惟边鄙，得与将军共同斯好，此诚将军之眷，而瓚之愿也。
translation: 
Qu Yi pursued Gongsun Zan to the boundary bridge, and Gongsun Zan gathered his troops and turned back to fight again. Qu Yi defeated Gongsun Zan again, and then chased Gongsun Zan's camp and captured the flag gate of the military camp. All the remaining troops of Gongsun Zan fled.
Yuan Shao was more than ten miles behind. When he heard that Gongsun Zan had been defeated, he took off his saddle and let the horse rest. He was only defended by dozens of archers who could shoot hard bows and more than a hundred guards with halberds.
Gongsun Zan's more than 2,000 scattered cavalry suddenly arrived and surrounded Yuan Shao several times, shooting arrows like rain.
Tian Feng supported Yuan Shao and asked him to retreat into an empty wall.
Yuan Shao took off his helmet and threw it to the ground, saying: "A real man should go forward and die in battle, why do you run into the wall and wrap your face instead?"
He urged the archers to shoot arrows and injured many of Gongsun Zan's cavalry.
Gongsun Zan's men didn't know it was Yuan Shao, so many of them gradually retreated.
Just as Qu Yi came to greet Yuan Shao, Gongsun Zan's cavalry retreated.
Three years later, Gongsun Zan sent troops to challenge Longcuo again, and Yuan Shao defeated Gongsun Zan again.
Gongsun Zan then returned to Youzhou and did not dare to come out again.
At the beginning of the fourth year, the emperor sent his servant Zhao Qi to mediate the Kanto troops and asked them to stop their troops.
Gongsun Zan took this opportunity to write a letter to Yuan Shao, saying: The servant has the virtue and prestige of Zhou Gong and Shao Gong. He has been commissioned to come quickly to spread the grace of the imperial court. He wants us to live in harmony and be as bright as the sun after setting aside the dark clouds. What could be more gratifying than this?
In the past, Jia Fu and Kou Xun were quarreling to harm each other. When Shizu mediated the dispute, they finally came out in the same car. After the rift and hatred were eliminated, people at that time praised them.
I consider that I am a remote and humble person, and I can be friendly with the general. This is indeed humiliating to the general, but it is my wish.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
绍于是引军南还。
三月上已，大会宾徒于薄落津。
闻魏郡兵反，与黑山贼干毒等数万人共覆鄴城，杀郡守。坐中客家在鄴者，皆忧怖失色，或起而啼泣，绍容貌自若，不敢常度。
贼有陶升者，自号 平汉将军 ，独反诸贼，将部众逾西城入，闭府门，具车重，载绍家及诸衣冠在州内者，身自扞卫，送到斥丘。
绍还，因屯斥丘，以陶升为建义中郎将。
六月，绍乃出军，入朝歌鹿肠山苍岩谷口，讨干毒。
围攻五日，破之，斩毒及其众万余级。
绍遂寻山北行，进击诸贼左髭丈八等，皆斩之，又击刘石、青牛角、黄龙、左校、郭大贤、李大目、于氐根等，复斩数万级，皆屠其屯壁。
遂与黑山贼张燕及四营屠各、雁门乌桓战于常山。
燕精兵数万，骑数千匹，连战十余日，燕兵死伤虽多，绍军亦疲，遂各退。
曲义自恃有功，骄纵不轨，绍召杀之，而并其众。
兴平二年，拜绍右将军。
其冬，车驾为李傕等所追于曹阳，沮授说绍曰： 将军累叶台辅，世济忠义。
translation: 
Yuan Shao led his army back south.
On the first day of March, Yuan Shao gathered his guests and subordinates at Boluojin.
When they learned that the soldiers of Wei County had rebelled and that they, together with the Black Mountain bandit Kou Yudu and tens of thousands of others, captured Ye City and killed the county guard, all the guests who lived in Ye County were worried and frightened. Some stood up and cried. However, Yuan Shao's face did not change, as if nothing had happened, and he did not lose his usual demeanor.
There was a thief named Tao Sheng, who called himself "General Pinghan" and rebelled against other thieves alone. He led his troops over the city wall from the west and entered the city, sealed off the county government, loaded the baggage into the car, and used the car to personally escort Yuan Shao's family and the families of other officials who lived in Jizhou City to Cuiqiu.
After Yuan Shao returned, he stationed himself at Cuiqiu and appointed Tao Sheng as the general of Jianyi Zhonglang.
In June, Yuan Shao then sent troops into the entrance of Cangyan Valley in Luchang Mountain, Chaoge, to attack Yu Du.
After a five-day siege, Yu Du was defeated and more than 10,000 Yu Du and his followers were killed.
Then Yuan Shao went north along Luchang Mountain to attack Zuo Zhuozhangba and other thieves, and wiped them all out. He also attacked Liu Shi, Qing Niujiao, Huang Long, Zuo Xiao, Guo Daxian, Li Damu, Yu Digen and others, killing tens of thousands again and destroying all their fortresses.
Then he fought with Zhang Yan, the Black Mountain bandit, the fourth battalion of the Xiongnu Tu various tribes, and Wuhuan of Yanmen in Changshan.
Zhang Yan had tens of thousands of elite soldiers and thousands of cavalry. The two sides fought continuously for more than ten days. Although Zhang Yan's army suffered many casualties, Yuan Shao's army was also exhausted, so they retreated.
Qu Yi relied on his military exploits, pride and indulgence, and disobedience to the law. Yuan Shao summoned him, killed him, and merged his troops.
In the second year of Xingping, the emperor appointed Yuan Shao as the right general.
In the winter of this year, the emperor was pursued by Li Ji and others in Caoyang. Jushou persuaded Yuan Shao: "The general has served as the prime minister of the court for generations, and has assisted the country with loyalty throughout the ages."


Chunk 9: 
original: 
今朝廷播越，宗庙残毁，观诸州郡，虽外托义兵，内实相图，未有忧存社稷恤人之意。
且今州城粗定，兵强士附，西迎大驾，即宫鄴都，挟天子而令诸侯，稸士马以讨不庭，谁能御之？
绍将从其计。
颍川郭图、淳于琼曰： 汉室陵迟，为日久矣，今欲兴之，不亦难乎？
且英雄并起，各据州郡，连徒聚众，动有万计，所谓秦失其鹿，先得者王。
今迎天子，动辄表闻，从之则权轻，违之则拒命，非计之善者也。
授曰： 今迎朝廷，于义为得，于时为宜。
若不早定，必有先之者焉。
夫权不失几，功不猒速，愿其图之。
帝立既非绍意，竟不能从。
translation: 
Now the emperor is wandering around and the ancestral temple is destroyed, but if you look at the states and counties, although they appear to be volunteers on the outside, they are actually thinking about each other in their hearts, and they have no worries about the country and the interests of the people.
Moreover, the city of Jizhou was generally pacified, the army was strong, and the scholars returned, went west to meet the emperor, used Ye County as the imperial palace, held the emperor hostage and ordered the princes, raised troops and horses to attack those who did not worship the royal court, who could resist?
Yuan Shao was ready to follow Ju Shou's plan.
The wise men Guo Tu and Chunyu Qiong said: The royal family of the Han Dynasty declined for a long time. Isn’t it too difficult to revitalize the royal family now?
Besides, heroes rise up at the same time, occupy states and counties separately, and unite to gather followers, often tens of thousands of them. This is just like the Qin Dynasty who lost the throne and the person who got it first became the emperor.
Now that the emperor has been brought in, he has to write to the emperor at every turn. If you obey, you will have too little power. If you don't obey, you will be disobeying the emperor's order. This is not a good approach.
Jushu said: It is morally reasonable and the timing is appropriate to bring the emperor in now.
If you don't decide early, someone else will be there to greet you first.
Don't lose the opportunity to make a contingency, and don't be too quick to succeed. I hope you will consider it.
The emperor's ascension was not in line with Yuan Shao's wishes, so Yuan Shao did not accept it.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
绍有三子：谭字显思、熙字显雍、尚字显甫。
谭长而惠，尚少而美。
绍后妻刘有宠，而偏爱尚，数称于绍，绍亦奇其姿容，欲使传嗣。
乃以谭继兄后，出为青州刺史。
沮授谏曰： 世称万人逐兔，一人获之，贪者悉止，分定故也。
且年均以贤，德均则卜，古之制也。
愿上惟先代成败之诫，下思逐兔分定之义。
若其不改，祸始此矣。
绍曰： 吾欲令诸子各据一州，以视其能。
于是以中子熙为幽州刺史，处甥高为并州刺史。
建安元年，曹操迎天子都许，乃下诏书于绍，责以地广兵多而专自树党，不闻勤王之师而但擅相讨伐。
绍上书曰：臣闻昔有哀叹而霜陨，悲哭而崩城者。
translation: 
Yuan Shao had three sons: Shei Tan, whose courtesy name was Xiansi, Yuan Xi, whose courtesy name was Xian Yong, and Yuan Shang, whose courtesy name was Xianfu.
Yuan Tan is older and wiser, while Yuan Shang is younger but more beautiful.
Sai Niu's step-wife type overwhelms Zhi Cheng and dotes on her. She prefers Tong Yao and praises him many times in front of Zhi Cheng. Sai Niu is also amazed by Zhi Cheng's appearance and wants him to succeed him.
So Yuan Shao adopted Yuan Tan as his brother's descendant and sent him to be the governor of Qingzhou.
Jushou dissuaded him and said: "It has always been said that if ten thousand people chase a rabbit, one person will get the rabbit, and all the others who want to get it will give up. This is because their status has been determined."
Besides, if they are similar in age, it depends on who is talented and virtuous, and if they are similar in moral character, it depends on the results of divination. This is an ancient system.
I hope you will consider the warnings of the successes and failures of previous generations on a large scale, and consider the principles of chasing rabbits and determining one's status on a small scale.
If you don't change it, this is where the disaster begins.
Yuan Shao said: I want the children to govern a state each so that their talents can be seen.
So: Chu appointed his second son Zhisai as the governor of Youye, and his nephew Zhibi as the governor of Bingzhou.
In the first year of Jian'an, Cao Cao welcomed the emperor and established his capital in Xu County. He then issued an edict to Yuan Shao, blaming him for having a vast land and a large army, and for always forming cliques for himself. He had never heard of sending troops to rescue the emperor, but he attacked others without permission.
Yuan Shao wrote a letter saying: I heard that in the past, some people lamented and sighed, and the sky was so moved that it sent frost, and some people cried sadly and the city walls collapsed.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
每读其书，谓为信然，于今况之，乃知妄作。
何者？臣出身为国，破家立事，至乃怀忠获衅，抱信见疑，昼夜长吟，剖肝泣血，曾无崩城陨霜之应，故邹衍、杞妇何能感彻。
臣以负薪之资，拔于陪隶之中，奉职宪台，擢授戎校。
常侍张让等滔乱天常，侵夺朝威，贼害忠德，扇动奸党。
故大将军何进忠国疾乱，义心赫怒，以臣颇有一介之节，可责以鹰犬之功，故授臣以督司，谘臣以方略。
臣不敢畏惮强御，避祸求福，与进合图，事无违异。
忠策未尽而元帅受败，太后被质，宫室焚烧，陛下圣德幼冲，亲遭厄困。
时进既被害，师徒丧沮，臣独将家兵百余人，抽戈承明，辣剑翼室，虎吆群司，奋击凶丑，曾不浃辰，罪人斯殄。此诚愚臣效命之一验也。
translation: 
Every time I read this kind of book, I think it is really like this. Only when I compare it with the current situation, I realize that it is false. Why?
The minister devoted himself to the country, ruined his family and established personnel, but in the end his loyalty was punished, and his integrity was doubted. The minister sighed day and night, had his heart and liver dissected, and cried out blood. There was no fulfillment of the city wall collapsing and frost falling from the sky. So how could the wives of Zou Wei and Qiliang move the world?
With his humble qualifications, I was selected from among the servants to serve in Xantai, and was promoted to lieutenant colonel in the army.
Chang Shi Zhang Rang and others disturbed the laws of heaven, violated the imperial court, seized power, framed loyal and virtuous people, and incited traitors.
The former general He Jin was loyal to the country, hated chaos, and was full of justice. He believed that I had more loyalty and integrity, which could enable him to shoulder the responsibility of driving and driving, so he appointed me as a lieutenant and asked him about his strategy.
The minister did not dare to be afraid of the mighty, and he avoided disaster in the hope of getting good fortune. Instead, he planned with He Jin, and there was no difference in his views on the matter.
The minister's loyal plan was not fully revealed and He Jin was defeated. The Queen Mother became a hostage, the palace was burned down, and His Majesty was still young and encountered difficulties personally.
At that time, He Jin had been killed, and the army was all dejected. Only the minister led more than a hundred soldiers, wielding weapons on the Chengming platform, holding swords in the side chambers, scolding the officials like tigers, and vigorously attacked the evil and evil people. In less than twelve days, all the bad guys were wiped out. This is indeed an example of the minister's service to the emperor.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
会董卓乘虚，所图不轨。
臣父兄亲从，并当大位，不惮一室之祸，苟惟宁国之义，故遂解节出奔，创谋河外。
时，卓方贪结外援，招悦英豪，故即臣勃海，申以军号，则臣之与卓，未有纤芥之嫌。
若使苟欲滑泥扬波，偷荣求利，则进可以享窃禄位，退无门户之患。
然臣愚所守，志无倾夺，故遂引会英雄，兴师百万，饮马孟津，歃血漳河。
会故冀州牧韩馥怀挟逆谋，欲专权势，绝臣军粮，不得踵系，至使猾虏肆毒，害及一门，尊卑大小，同日并戮。
鸟兽之情，犹知号乎。
臣所以荡然忘哀，貌无隐戚者，诚以忠孝之节，道不两立，顾私怀己，不能全功。
斯亦愚臣破家徇国之二验也。
又黄巾十万焚烧青、兗，黑山、张杨蹈藉冀域。
臣乃旋师，奉辞伐畔。
金鼓未震，狡敌知亡，故韩馥怀惧，谢咎归土，张扬、黑山同时乞降。
臣时辄承制，窃比窦融，以议郎曹操权领兗州牧。
会公孙瓚师旅南驰，陆掠北境，臣即星驾席卷，与瓚交锋。
translation: 
It happened that Dong Zhuo took advantage of the country's weakness to plot evil.
Chen's uncle and cousin accompanied the emperor personally and held important positions together. I was not afraid that the whole family might suffer, but only considered the principles of stabilizing the country, so I took off my talisman and ran away to plan a great cause in Henan.
At that time, Dong Zhuo was trying to make friends with foreign aid and recruit heroes, so he sent someone to appoint me as the governor of Bohai and grant him the title of general. It can be seen that I have no grudge against Dong Zhuo.
If the envoy wants to follow the customs, live quietly, and covet glory and wealth, then he can enjoy a high official and a generous salary if he enters, but there will be no disaster for his family if he retreats.
However, the foolish minister insisted on not being inclined to change, so he gathered heroes, mobilized a million troops, drank horses and Mengjin, and formed an alliance by consuming blood at the Zhang River.
It happened that Han Fu, the former shepherd of Jizhou, had the intention of treason and planned to monopolize power. He did not provide his ministers with military food and envoys could not advance one after another. This resulted in a cunning enemy who wanted to poison all living beings. The disaster affected the whole family of ministers, regardless of their seniority or age. They were all killed on the same day.
The feelings of flying black beasts still know how to cry out.
The reason why I have completely forgotten my sorrow and does not show pain or sorrow on the outside is actually because the integrity of loyalty and filial piety cannot be established in both aspects. If you care about your own personal hatred, you cannot get all the merits.
This is also the second example of a foolish minister ruining his family and dedicating himself to the country.
In addition, 100,000 Yellow Turban troops burned down Qingzhou and Yanzhou, and Black Mountain bandits and Zhang Yang trampled on the Jizhou area.
The minister then returned to the army and was ordered to attack the rebels.
The golden army drum had not yet sounded, and the cunning enemy knew that he was about to perish. Therefore, Han Fu was filled with fear and apologized. Zhang Yang and the Black Mountain bandits asked for surrender at the same time.
At that time, I often adhered to the emperor's will, privately compared myself to Dou Rong, and recommended that Lang Cao take power and lead Yanzhou as a pastoralist.
When Gongsun Zan's troops expanded southward and captured the northern border of Jizhou, I immediately fought against Gongsun Zan with the speed of a meteor and the momentum of a sweeping force.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
假天之威，每战辄克。
臣备公族子弟，生长京辇，颇闻俎豆，不习干戈；加自乃祖先臣以来，世作辅弼，咸以文德尽忠，得免罪戾。
臣非与瓚角戎马之势，争战阵之功者也。诚以贼臣不诛，《春秋》所贬，苟云利国，专之不疑。
故冒践霜雪，不惮劬勤，实庶一捷之福，以立终身之功。
社稷未定，臣诚耻之。
太仆赵岐衔命来征，宣明陛下含弘之施，蠲除细故，与下更新，奉诏之日，引师南辕。
是臣畏怖天威，不敢怠慢之三验也。
又臣所上将校，率皆清英宿德，令明显达，登锋履刃，死者过半，勤恪之功，不见书列。
而州郡牧守，竞盗声名，怀持二端，优游顾望，皆列士锡圭，跨州连郡，是以远近狐疑，议论纷错者也。
臣闻守文之世，德高者位尊；仓卒之时，功多者赏厚。
translation: 
With the power of God, every battle is won.
I am considered a son of an aristocrat. He grew up in the capital and knows a little bit about etiquette, but is not familiar with fighting. In addition, since my ancestors have served as prime ministers for generations, they have all relied on virtue and loyalty to the court to avoid any sins.
I am not the kind of person who competes with Gongsun Zan for military prowess and merits on the battlefield. In fact, he was demoted in the Spring and Autumn Annals because he did not kill traitorous officials, as long as it was beneficial to the country. Even if you make your own decisions, don't hesitate.
Therefore, I brave the frost and walk in the snow, not afraid of hard work, and really count on the luck of victory to build a lifetime of achievements.
The country is not stable, and I am truly ashamed.
The imperial servant Zhao Qi was ordered to come from afar to promote your majesty's magnanimous kindness, eliminate trivial barriers, and start over with his ministers. On the day I received the edict, I led my army back south.
This is the third example of the minister fearing the power of the imperial court and not daring to be negligent.
In addition, most of the generals and captains recommended by the minister to the court are elites and elderly and virtuous people, and their reputations are obviously well-known. More than half of these people died on the edge of the sword. Their diligent and respectful achievements are not recorded in books and biographies.
However, the governors and governors of the prefectures and counties competed to steal their reputations. They had a dichotomy in their hearts and hesitated to wait and see. As a result, they all divided the land, granted Gui Gui and the title of marquis, and their power spread across the prefectures and counties. Therefore, people near and far felt suspicious and discussed a lot.
I heard that in the period when the laws of the previous kings were observed, those with high virtues would have a distinguished status; in extraordinary periods, those who had made many meritorious deeds would be rewarded generously.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
陛下播越非所，洛邑乏祀，海内伤心，志士愤惋。
是以忠臣肝脑涂地，肌肤横分而无悔心者，义之所感故也。
今赏加无劳，以携有德；杜黜忠功，以疑众望。斯岂腹心之远图？
将乃谗慝之邪说使之然也？
臣爵为通侯，位二千石。
殊恩厚德，臣既叨之，岂敢窥觊重礼，以希彤弓矢之命哉？
诚伤偏裨列校，勤不见纪，尽忠为国，翻成重愆。
斯蒙恬所以悲号于边狱，白起歔欷于杜邮也。
太傅日磾位为师保，任配东征，而耗乱王命，宠任非所，凡所举用，皆众所捐弃。
而容纳其策，以为谋主，令臣骨肉兄弟，还为仇敌，交锋接刃，构难滋甚。
臣虽欲释甲投戈，事不得已。
诚恐陛下日月之明，有所不照，四聪之听，有所不闻，乞下臣章，咨之群贤，使三槐九棘，议臣罪戾。
translation: 
His Majesty was displaced, and there was no one to worship in the ancestral temple in Luoyang. People all over the world felt sad, and people with lofty ideals sighed angrily.
The reason why loyal ministers are bruised, their bodies and heads are separated, but their hearts are filled with no regrets is because they are inspired by justice.
Nowadays, those who work hard are not rewarded, causing virtuous people to be alienated; those who are loyal and meritorious are ostracized, causing doubts in everyone's minds.
Is this the long-term plan in His Majesty’s mind? Or is it caused by slander and heresy?
The minister's title is Chehou, and his salary is two thousand dan.
I have already been greedy for special favors and rich reputation. Do you dare to covet the court's gifts and hope to get Tong Gong's orders?
It really hurts that the hard work of the general and colonel was not recorded, and it turned out to be a great sin to be loyal to the country.
This is the reason why Meng Tian cried bitterly in the border prison and Bai Qi lamented and shed tears in Du You.
Taifu Ma Ribei was the official guardian and was responsible for the Eastern Expedition. However, he disrupted the emperor's mission. The people he favored and appointed were all unqualified. All the people he selected and appointed were abandoned by everyone.
However, he adopted the strategies of these people and used them as his masterminds, turning his brothers and sisters into enemies, causing swordsmen to fight against each other, and the disasters caused became more and more serious.
Although I want to take off my armor and throw away my spear, the matter cannot end.
I am indeed worried that your majesty’s radiance, which is as bright as the sun and the moon, may not shine in some places; your majesty’s ears may hear the clear observations from all directions, but there may be situations where you cannot hear them. I request your majesty to send the memorial to the ministers, ask all the wise ministers about the situation, and let the three ministers and nine ministers discuss the crimes committed by the ministers.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
若以臣今行权为衅，则桓、文当有诛绝之则；若以众不讨贼为贤，则赵盾可无书弑援贬矣。
臣虽小人，志守一介。
若使得申明本心，不愧先帝，则伏首欧刀，褰衣就镬，臣之愿也。
惟陛下垂《尸鸠》之平，绝邪谄之论，无令愚臣结恨三泉。
于是以绍为太尉，封鄴侯。
时曹操自为大将军，绍耻为之下，伪表辞不受。
操大惧，乃让位于绍。
二年，使将作大匠孔融持节拜绍大将军，锡弓矢节钺，虎贲百人，兼督冀、青、幽、并四州，然后受之。
绍每得诏书，患有不便于己，乃欲移天子自近，使说操以许下埤湿，洛阳残破，宜徙都甄城，以就全实。
操拒之。
田丰说绍曰： 徙都之计，既不克从，宜早图许，奉迎天子，动托诏令，响号海内，此算之上者。
不尔，终为人所禽，虽悔无益也。
translation: 
If it were regarded as a crime for ministers to change their authority, then Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin should be sentenced to death; if it was regarded as virtuous that everyone did not attack the bandits, then there would be no need to write the derogatory word "regicide" on the shield.
Although I am an ordinary person, I am determined to maintain integrity.
If you can make your ministers express their sincerity and be worthy of the late emperor, then even if they lower their heads to use the torture knife or lift their clothes to use the soup pot, they will be willing to do so.
Your Majesty, please pay attention to the meaning of equality in "Corpse Dove", avoid flattery remarks, and do not make your ministers resentful.
So the imperial court appointed Yuan Shao as Taiwei and granted him the title of Marquis of Ye.
At that time, Cao Cao himself served as the general. Yuan Shao felt ashamed of being under Cao Cao and deliberately wrote a letter of resignation to the emperor and refused to accept it.
Cao Cao was very scared and gave up the position of general to Yuan Shao.
In the second year of Jian'an, the emperor sent the great craftsman Kong Rong to hold the emperor's talisman to grant Yuan Shao the position of general. He also gave him bows and arrows, talismans, axes and irons, and a hundred tigers and swords. He was asked to take charge of the four states of Jizhou, Qingzhou, Youzhou and Bingzhou. Yuan Shao accepted the appointment.
Every time Yuan Shao received an imperial edict, he was always worried that it would be detrimental to him, so he wanted the emperor to move closer to him. He sent people to tell Cao Cao that Xu County was low-lying and humid, and Luoyang was incomplete and ruined. The capital should be moved to Zhencheng to be close to a complete and abundant area.
Cao Cao refused.
Tian Feng said to Yuan Shao: Since the strategy of moving the capital has not been adopted, it is best to seize Xu County as soon as possible, bring the emperor over, and often issue orders to the whole country under the pretense of the emperor Shao Ling. This is the best way.
If you don't do this, you will eventually be controlled by others, and then even regret will have no effect.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
绍不从。
四年春，击公孙瓚，遂定幽土，事在《瓚传》。
绍既并四州之地，众数十万，而骄心转盛，贡御稀简。
主簿耿包密白绍曰； 赤德衰尽，袁为黄胤，宜顺天意，以从民心。
绍以包白事示军府僚属，议者以包妖妄宜诛。
绍知众情不同，不得已乃杀包以弭其迹。
于是简精兵十万，骑万匹，欲出攻许，以审配、逢纪统军事，田丰、荀谌及南阳许攸为谋主，颜良、文丑为将帅。
沮授进说曰： 近讨公孙，师出历年，百姓疲敝，仓库无积，赋役方殷，此国之深忧也。
宜先遣使献捷天子，务农逸人。
translation: 
Yuan Shao did not adopt it.
In the spring of the fourth year, Yuan Shao attacked Gongsun Zan and pacified the Youzhou area. The incident is recorded in "The Biography of Gongsun Zan".
Since Yuan Shao annexed the territory of four states and had hundreds of thousands of troops, his pride became strong, and the tribute to the emperor was sparse and simple.
Geng Bao, the chief registrar, secretly wrote to Yuan Shao, saying: The Red Virtue of the Han Dynasty is about to decline. The Yuan family is the descendant of Yu Shun and Huang De, and they should comply with the will of God and the wishes of the people.
Yuan Shao showed Geng Bao's petition to his staff. Everyone believed that Geng Bao was deceitful and should be beheaded.
Yuan Shao knew that everyone disagreed, so he had no choice but to kill Geng Bao to cover up his feelings.
So Yuan Shao selected 100,000 elite soldiers and 10,000 cavalry to attack Xu County. He was responsible for supervising military affairs and observing discipline. Tian Feng, Xun Chen and Xu You from Nanyang were the main advisers, and Yan Liang and Wen Chou were the generals.
Jushou stepped forward and said: "The recent attack on Gongsun Zan lasted for a year. The people are exhausted and impoverished, there is no surplus in the warehouses, and there are too many taxes and labor. This is a matter of great concern to the country."
It is best to send envoys to present prisoners and spoils of war to the emperor first, and devote themselves to farming so that the troops and horses can rest.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
若不得通，乃表曹操隔我王路，然后进屯黎阳，渐营河南，益作舟船，缮修器械，分遣精骑，抄其边鄙，令彼不得安，我取其逸。
如此可坐定也。
郭图、审配曰： 兵书之法，十围五攻，敌则能战。
今以明公之神武，连河朔之强众，以伐曹操，其势譬若覆手。
今不时取，后难图也。
授曰： 盖救敌诛暴，谓之义兵；恃众凭强，谓之骄兵。
义者无敌，骄者先灭。
曹操奉迎天子，建宫许都。
今举师南向，于义则违。
且庙胜之策，不在强弱，曹操法令既行，士卒精练，非公孙瓚坐受围者也。
今弃万安之术，而兴无名之师，窃为公惧之。
图等曰： 武王伐纣，不为不义；况兵加曹操，而云无名！
且公师徒精勇，将士思奋，而不及时早定大业，所谓 天与不取，反受其咎 。此越之所以霸，吴之所以灭也。
监军之计，在于持牢，而非见时知几之变也。
translation: 
If I can't reach the Emperor, I will report that Cao Cao has blocked my path to the Emperor, and then I will march troops to garrison Liyang, and gradually develop operations south of the Yellow River, build more ships, renovate equipment, dispatch excellent cavalry, and plunder the opponent's border areas, so that they will not have peace, but I will have peace of mind.
In this way, you can sit back and control the world.
Guo Tu and Shen Pei said: The method in the military book is to surround the enemy when the enemy is ten times more numerous, attack the enemy when the enemy is five times more numerous, and engage in battle when the strength is equal.
At present, with the help of Ming Gong's divine power and the powerful army in Heshuo area, it is easy to defeat Cao Cao.
If we don't capture it in time now, it will be difficult to deal with it in the future.
Jushu said: An army that eliminates chaos and violence is a moral army; an army that relies on large numbers and strength is called a proud army.
The army of benevolence and righteousness has no rival, but the army of pride will perish first.
Cao Cao supported and welcomed the emperor and built a palace in Xudu.
Now mobilizing all the troops to attack Cao Cao in the south would be contrary to righteousness.
Moreover, defeating the enemy depends on strategy, not strength. Cao Cao's decree has been implemented, and the soldiers are strong and capable, not the kind of people like Gongsun Zan who are waiting to be surrounded.
Now that you are abandoning perfectly safe strategies and launching armies without justifiable reasons, I am secretly afraid for you.
Guo Tu and others said: It is not unjust for King Wu of Zhou to attack Shang Zhou; besides, sending troops to attack Cao Cao is afraid that there will be no reason!
Besides, the lord's troops are strong and brave, and the generals and soldiers are all thinking of working hard. If you don't seize the opportunity to decide the great cause early, it will become what people say, God gives you a gift but does not take it, but you will be condemned by God. This is the reason why the Yue Kingdom dominates and the Wu Kingdom is destroyed.
The method of supervising the army lies in adhering to stability, rather than using expedient measures to seize opportunities according to the situation.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
绍纳图言。
图等因是谮沮授曰： 授监统内外，威震三军，若其浸盛，何以制之！
夫臣与主同者昌，主与臣同者亡，此《黄石》之所忌也。
且御众于外，不宜知内。
绍乃分授所统为三都督，使授及郭图、淳于琼各典一军，未及行。
五年，左将军刘备杀徐州刺史车胄，据沛以背曹操。
操惧，乃自将征备。
田丰说绍曰： 与公争天下者，曹操也。操今东击刘备，兵连未可卒解，今举军而袭其后，可一往而定。
兵以几动，斯其时也。
绍辞以子疾，未得行。
丰举杖击地曰： 嗟乎，事去矣！
夫遭难遇之几，而以婴兒病失其会，惜哉！
绍闻而怒之，从此遂疏焉。
曹操畏绍过河，乃急击备，遂破之。
备奔绍，绍于是进军攻许。
田丰以既失前几，不宜便行，谏绍曰：曹操既破刘备，则许下非复空虚。
且操善用兵，变化无方，众虽少，未可轻也。
translation: 
Yuan Shao adopted Guo Tu's opinion.
Guo Tu and others took this opportunity to speak ill of Jushou: Jushou's authority inside and outside his supervision shocked the three armies. If he gradually becomes stronger, how can he be controlled?
If the ministers have the same power as the monarch, the country will perish. This is taboo in the book "Yellow Stone".
Besides, those who command external armies should not be involved in internal affairs.
Yuan Shao then divided Jusuke's authority into three governors, and asked Jusuke, Guo Tu, and Chunyu Qiong to each be in charge of an army, but he did not have time to do so.
In the fifth year, Liu Bei, the general of the left, killed Chezhou, the governor of Xuzhou, and occupied Peixian County to betray Cao Cao.
Cao Cao was afraid and personally led his troops to attack Liu Bei.
Tian Feng said to Yuan Shao: The one who competes with you for the world is Cao Cao. Cao Cao is going to Shubian to attack Liu Bei. The fighting between the two sides cannot end soon. Now mobilize all the troops to attack Cao Cao's rear, and they can be pacified as soon as they leave.
The army is dispatched according to the opportunity, and the time is created.
Yuan Shao refused because his son was ill, and Tian Feng's plan was not implemented.
Tian Feng raised his crutch and knocked on the ground and said: Well, the big deal is over!
It’s so hard to catch such an opportunity, but it’s a pity that the opportunity was lost because the child was sick!
Yuan Shao was very angry after hearing this and alienated Tian Feng from then on.
Cao Cao was afraid that Yuan Shao would cross the Yellow River, so he stepped up his attack on Liu Bei and finally defeated Liu Bei.
Liu Bei defected to Yuan Shao, and Yuan Shao then marched to attack Xu County.
Tian Feng believed that since the opportunity ahead was lost, it was not appropriate to send troops now, so he dissuaded Yuan Shao and said: Cao Cao has defeated Liu Bei, and Xu County is no longer empty.
Moreover, Cao Cao is good at using troops and is unpredictable. Although the number is small, it should not be underestimated.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
今不如久持之。
将军据山河之固，拥四州之众，外结英雄，内修农战，然后简其精锐，分为奇兵，乘虚迭出，以扰河南，救右则击其左，救左则击其右，使敌疲于奔命，人不得安业，我未劳而彼已困，不及三年，可坐克也。
今释庙胜之策而决成败于一战，若不如志，悔无及也。
绍不从。
丰强谏忤绍，绍以为沮众，遂械系之。
乃先宣檄曰：盖闻明主图危以制变，忠臣虑难以立权。
曩者强秦弱主，赵高执柄，专制朝命，威福由已，终有望夷之祸，污辱至今。
及臻吕后，禄、产专政，擅断万机，决事禁省，下陵上替，海内寒心。
translation: 
It's better to hold on for the long term now.
Relying on the strength of the mountains and the Yellow River, the general has men and horses from four states. He unites heroes outside and practices farming inside to prepare for war. Then select elite troops, divide them into surprise troops, take turns to fight when the enemy is empty, and use them to harass the south of the Yellow River. When the enemy rescues his right, I will attack his left; when the enemy rescues his left, I will attack his right. This will make the enemy exhausted and we cannot rest in our vocation. We are not yet tired but the opponent is already tired. It will take less than three years for us to sit still and defeat the enemy.
Nowadays, we do not use the strategy of ensuring victory in the temple but want to decide success or failure through a war. If we do not get what we want, it will be too late to regret.
Yuan Shao didn't listen.
Tian Feng tried his best to dissuade him, which offended Yuan Shao. Yuan Shao thought that he had ruined the morale of the army, so he imprisoned Tian Feng.
So he issued a proclamation first, which said: It is said that a wise monarch pays attention to the existence of danger and can control sudden changes, and a loyal minister takes into account the occurrence of disaster and can establish expedient countermeasures.
In the past, in the powerful Qin State, because the emperor was weak, Zhao Gao took power and controlled the power of the court. The power and wealth were determined by Chang Gao, so the disaster of regicide in Wangyi Palace finally occurred, and the shameful reputation has been passed down to this day.
After arriving at Queen Lu, Lu Lu and Lu Chan took over the affairs of the court, arbitrated court affairs without authorization, and decided state affairs in the palace.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
于是绛侯、朱虚兴威奋怒，诛夷逆暴，尊立太宗，故能道化兴隆，光明融显，此则大臣立权之明表也。
司空曹操祖父腾，故中常侍，与左悺、徐璜并作妖，饕餮放横，伤化虐人。
父嵩，乞匄携养，因臧买位，舆金替宝，输货权门，窃盗鼎司，倾覆重器。
操赘阉遗丑，本无令德，僄狡锋侠，好乱乐祸。
幕府董统鹰扬，埽夷凶逆，续遇董卓侵官暴国，于是提剑挥鼓，发命东夏，广罗英难，弃瑕录用，故遂与操参咨策略，谓其鹰犬之才，爪牙可任。
至乃愚佻短虑，轻进易退，伤夷折衄，数丧师徒。
幕府辄复分兵命锐，修完补辑，表行东郡太守、兗州刺史，被以虎文，授以偏师，奖就威柄，冀获秦师一克之报。
而遂乘资跋扈，肆行酷烈，割剥元元，残贤害善。
故九江太守边让，英才儁逸，以直言正色，论不阿谄，身被枭悬之戮，妻孥受灰灭之咎。
translation: 
The ministers are oppressed, the sky is in decline, and everyone in the country feels chilled. So Jianghou and Zhuxuhou became angry, raised up their power, killed the rebellious and violent Lu family, and supported Taizong, so that moral education could prosper and shine. This is an obvious example of the minister's expediency in handling matters.
The grandfather of Sikong Cao Cao, Cao Teng was a regular servant in the original army. Together with Zuo Pan and Xu Huang, he created disasters, was greedy and indulgent, corrupted the customs, and oppressed the people.
Cao Cao's father, Cao Song, was adopted as a son by others through begging, and relied on embezzlement and bribery in exchange for official positions. Use cars to load gold and silver objects, send property to rich and powerful people, steal the positions of the three public officials, and overthrow the country.
Cao Cao was a descendant of evil eunuchs. He originally lacked good moral character. He was fierce and cunning, fierce and sharp, and took pleasure in misfortunes.
Likes turmoil. The general inspector led the brave soldiers to eliminate the ferocious and rebellious villains. Then he encountered Dong Zhuo who violated the official rights and rioted the country. So he carried a sword and beat the war drum. He first issued an order to attack Dong Zhuo in the Central Plains. He recruited heroes everywhere, abandoned the past suspicions, and appointed useful people. Therefore, he participated in discussing strategies with Cao Cao, thinking that he had the ability to travel and be a brave man.
Unexpectedly, he was stupid, frivolous, short-sighted, advanced rashly, and retreated haphazardly. As a result, he suffered casualties and setbacks, causing many casualties to the army.
The general often assigned him elite troops to help him replenish his strength and make it complete. He wrote letters recommending him to serve as the governor of Shu County and the governor of Yanzhou. He made him wear the uniform of a military commander, gave him partial divisions as encouragement, and allowed him to take charge of power, hoping to get rewards from him for Qin's victory over Jin.
However, he took advantage of these conditions to become domineering, arbitrary, cruel and violent, plundering the people and killing the virtuous.
The former prefect of Jiujiang gave way to the throne, he was handsome, outstanding, and talented. Because he was honest in his speech, not arrogant, and held opinions without flattery, he was killed, his head was hung in public, and his wife and children were also slaughtered.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
自是士林愤痛，人怨天怒，一夫奋臂，举州同声，故躬破于徐方，地夺于吕布，彷徨东裔，蹈据无所。
幕府惟强干弱枝之义，且不登畔人之党，故复援旍擐甲。席卷赴征，金鼓响震，布众破沮，拯其死亡之患，复其方伯之任。
是则幕府无德于兗土，而有大造于操也。
会后銮驾东反，群虏乱政。
时，冀州方有北鄙之警，匪遑离局，故使从事中郎徐勋就发遣操，使缮修效庙，翼卫幼主。
translation: 
From then on, the scholars in the world were angry and grieved, and the sky was resentful and the people were angry. One person raised his arms and shouted, and the whole state responded unanimously. Therefore, Cao Cao personally led the troops in Xuzhou and was defeated, and the territory was taken away by Lu Bu. Cao Cao was wandering in the eastern frontier, with no place to gain a foothold.
In line with the principle of strengthening the main body and weakening the branches and leaves, and not helping the rebel party, the general once again raised the battle flag high, put on the clang armor, and attacked Lu Bu with a sweeping force. The golden drums sounded together, and Lu Bu's troops were defeated in despair, thus saving Cao Cao from the danger of death and restoring his status as the leader of the princes.
This is because the general is not very kind to the Yanzhou area, but he is very kind to Cao Cao.
Later, when the emperor returned eastward, many bad guys disrupted the government.
At that time, an alarm came from Jizhou that the northern border was being invaded. The general had no time to leave his duties, so he sent Xu Xun, a lieutenant in charge, to see Cao Cao, asking him to regulate the rituals of the Tiandi Ancestral Temple and help protect the young emperor.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
而便放志专行，威劫省禁，卑侮王僚，败法乱纪，坐召三台，专制朝政，爵赏由心，刑戮在口，所爱光五宗，所怨灭三族，群谈者受显诛，腹议者蒙隐戮，道路以目，百辟钳口，尚书记期会，公卿充员品而已。
故太尉杨彪，历典二司，元纲极位。
操因睚眦，被以非罪，篣楚并兼，五毒俱至，触情放慝，不顾宪章。
又议郎赵彦，忠谏直言，议有可纳，故圣朝含听，改容加锡。
操欲迷夺时明，杜绝言路，擅收立杀，不俟报闻。
又梁孝王先帝母弟，坟陵尊显，松柏桑梓，犹宜恭肃。
translation: 
And he took advantage of the opportunity to act arbitrarily, coercing the emperor with force, despising and insulting the ministers of the court, corrupting and disrupting the law. He sat high and summoned the three ministers to specialize in government affairs. The officials and rewards depended on his will. Punishment and killing were his words. Those he loved would be honored for five generations. Those he hated would be killed by three tribes. Anyone who got together to discuss would be publicly convicted, and those who harbored opinions about him would be secretly killed. The people of the world follow the road with their eyes, the public officials and ministers remain silent, the ministers only record the financial inflows and outflows of the imperial court, and the three officials and nine ministers are just the number of official grades.
Yang Biao, the former Taiwei, served successively as Sikong and Situ, in charge of political affairs and had the highest position.
Just because of a little resentment, Cao Cao added unwarranted charges to him, beat him with sticks, and used all five kinds of poisonous punishments. He did whatever he wanted, acted recklessly, and ignored the rules and laws.
In addition, Zhao Yan, Yilang, was loyal in admonishing, straightforward in his speech, and his opinions were worthy of adoption. Therefore, Emperor Shengming listened to his opinions carefully, changed his appearance, and rewarded him.
In order to confuse the world, Cao Cao deprived the emperor of his power and suppressed people's speech. He arrested Zai Yan without waiting for the emperor to know about it and killed him immediately.
In addition, King Xiao of Liang was the half-brother of the late emperor, and his tomb was distinguished and distinguished. Even the pines, cypresses, and mulberry trees on the tomb should be treated with respect.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
操率将吏士，亲临发掘，破棺裸尸，掠取金宝，至令圣朝流涕，士民伤怀。
又署发丘中郎将、摸金校尉，所过毁突，无骸不露。
身处三公之官，而行桀虏之态，污国虐民，毒施人鬼。
加其细政苛惨，科防互设，矰缴充蹊，阬穽塞路，举手挂网罗，动足蹈机埳，是以兗、豫有无聊之人，帝都有呼嗟之怨。
历观古今书籍所载，贪残虐烈无道之臣，于操为甚。
莫府方诘外奸，未及整训，加意含覆，冀可弥缝。
而操豺狼野心，潜包祸谋，乃欲桡折栋梁，孤弱汉室，除忠害善，专为枭雄。
往岁伐鼓北征，讨公孙瓚，强御桀逆，拒围一年。
操因其未破，阴交书命，欲托助王师，以见掩袭，故引兵造河，方舟北济。
会行人发露，瓚亦枭夷，故使锋芒挫缩，厥图不果。
屯据敖仓，阻河为固，乃欲运螳螂之斧，御隆车之隧。
莫府奉汉威灵，折冲宇宙，长戟百万，胡骑千群，奋中黄、育、获之士，聘良弓劲弩之势，并州越太行，青州涉济、漯，大军乏黄河以角其前，荆州下宛、叶而掎其后。雷震虎步，并集虏廷，若举炎火以焚飞蓬，覆沧海而注票炭，有何不消灭者哉？
当今汉道陵迟，纲弛网绝，操以精兵七百，围守宫阙，外称陪卫，内以拘质，惧篡逆之祸，因斯而作。
translation: 
Cao Cao led the generals and soldiers to personally direct the excavation of the tomb, cut open the coffin, exposed the corpse, and plundered the gold and silver treasures in the tomb, causing the emperor to shed tears and the scholars and the people to feel sad.
Moreover, Cao Cao commissioned the generals of the army and the captain of Mojin to dig up the tombs, destroying and digging through the tombs, and all the corpses were exposed.
Cao Cao was in the position of the Three Dukes, but he did cruel things, ruined the country, and harmed the people. His cruelty affected the living and the dead.
In addition, the government decrees are strict and strict, the laws and prohibitions are intertwined with each other, the roads are full of arrows, and the roads are full of traps. Every time you raise your hand, you will touch the snare, and every time you move your feet, you will step into the trap. Therefore, the people of Yanzhou and Yuzhou were in dire straits, and the emperor's capital was full of sighs and resentments.
Looking at the records in ancient and modern books, none of his subordinates were more greedy, cruel, vicious and violent than Cao Cao.
The general was busy questioning local traitors and had no time to teach Cao Cao a lesson, so he tolerated and covered up Cao Cao, hoping to make some amends.
However, Cao Cao had wild ambitions and hidden intentions of causing trouble. He actually wanted to break the pillars of the country, isolate and weaken the court, get rid of loyal ministers, persecute the kind, and specialize in doing cruel and violent things.
In previous years, the general beat the war drum and marched north to attack Gongsun Zan. Gongsun Zan resisted with all his strength, went against the grain and resisted the siege for a year.
Cao Cao took advantage of Gongsun Zan's undefeated status and secretly exchanged letters with him. He attempted to launch a surprise attack on me under the pretext of helping the imperial army, so he led his army to the Yellow River and crossed the warships north.
It happened that Cao Cao's envoy was exposed and Gongsun Zan was beheaded. Therefore, Cao Cao's edge was frustrated and his plot failed.
Cao Cao occupied Aocang and relied on the Yellow River as a natural barrier, so he wanted to use the arms of the mantis to block the way of the cart.
The general inherited the divine power of the Han family, defeated the enemy, and spread across the world. He had millions of soldiers holding halberds and thousands of cavalry. Once he inspired the warriors like Huang Bo, Xia Yu, and Wu Huo, he displayed the power of good bows and strong arrows. The troops of Bingzhou crossed the Taihang Mountains, and the troops of Qingzhou crossed Jishui and Luo Water, the army crossed the Yellow River and fought head-on. Jingzhou's troops captured Wan County and Ye County to contain Cao Cao's rear. They attacked the enemy's headquarters with thunderous power and tiger-like swoops. It was like holding a high fire to burn the grass, and pouring charcoal over the sea. What can't be destroyed?
Now, the strength of the Han Dynasty has declined, and the country's laws have also been destroyed. Cao Cao has sent 700 elite soldiers to guard around the palace. On the surface, they are called accompanying guards.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
乃忠臣肝脑涂地之秋，烈士立功之会也。可不勖哉！
乃先遣颜良攻曹操别将刘延于白马，绍自引兵至黎阳。
沮授临行，会其宗族，散资财以与之。
曰： 势存则威无不加，势亡则不保一身。
哀哉！ 其弟宗曰： 曹操士马不敌，君何惧焉？
授曰： 以曹兗州之明略，又挟天子以为资，我虽克伯珪，众实疲敝，而主骄将忲，军之破败，在此举矣。
杨雄有言： 六国蚩蚩，为嬴弱姬。
今之谓乎！
曹操遂救刘延，击颜良，斩之。
绍乃度河，壁延津南。
沮授临船叹曰： 上盈其志，下务其功，悠悠黄河，吾其济乎！
遂以疾退，绍不许而意恨之，复省其所部，并属郭图。
绍使刘备、文丑挑战，曹操又击破之，斩文丑。
再战而禽二将，绍军中大震。
translation: 
Now is the time when loyal ministers are working hard and people with lofty ideals are building their achievements. Is it possible not to work hard?
So Yan Liang was first sent to attack Cao Cao's general Liu Yan who was stationed in Baima, and Yuan Shao personally led his army to Liyang.
Before Jushou left, he gathered the clans together and distributed the money to them.
Jushu said: If the strength can be preserved, then the power will be everywhere; once the strength is eliminated, even oneself cannot be preserved. How sad!
His younger brother Juzong said: Cao Cao's men and horses are no match, why are you afraid?
Ju Shou said: With Cao Yanzhou's clever strategy and coercing the emperor as an advantage, although we defeated Gongsun Zan, the army was really tired, the commander was proud and the generals were extravagant, so the army was destroyed in just one dispatch.
Yang Xiong has a saying: The turmoil in the Six Kingdoms weakened Ji Zhou for Ying Qin.
Are you talking about now?
Cao Cao then rescued Liu Yan, attacked and killed Yan Liang.
Then Aishao crossed the Yellow River and built a camp south of Yanjin.
When Jushu got on the boat, he sighed and said: "My lord is full of arrogance and ambition, and his subordinates are pursuing utilitarianism. The water of the Yellow River is long. Can I still cross the Yellow River?"
So he asked Yuan Shao to resign on the pretext of illness. Yuan Shao disagreed and was very angry with him, so he reduced the number of troops under his command and assigned them to Guo Tu.
Yuan Shao sent Liu Bei and Wen Chou to challenge, and Cao Cao defeated Yuan Jun and killed Wen Chou.
They fought again, and Cao Cao captured two of Yuan Shao's generals alive. Yuan Shao's army was greatly shocked.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
操还屯官度，绍进保阳武。
沮授又说绍曰： 北兵虽众，而劲果不及南军；南军谷少，而资储不如此。
南幸于急战，北利在缓师。
宜徐持久，旷以日月。
绍不从。
连营稍前，渐逼官度，遂合战。操军不利，复还坚壁。
绍为高橹，起土山，射营中，营中皆蒙楯而行。
操乃发石车击绍楼，皆破，军中呼曰：霹雳车 。
绍为地道欲袭操，操辄于内为长堑以拒之。又遣奇兵袭绍运车，大破之，尽焚其谷食。
相持百余日，河南人疲困，多畔应绍。
绍遣淳于琼等将兵万余人北迎粮运。
沮授说绍可遣蒋奇别为支军于表，以绝曹操之钞。
绍不从。
许攸进曰： 曹操兵少而悉师拒我，许下余守势必空弱。
translation: 
Cao Cao returned to Guandu to garrison, and Yuan Shao advanced to occupy Yangwu.
Ju Shou also advised Yuan Shao: Although the northern army has more people, it is not as strong and decisive as the southern army; the southern army has less food and its reserves are not as good as the northern army.
The Southern Army wanted a quick victory, while the Northern Army had the advantage of advancing slowly.
It is best to use a slow and long-lasting method to delay time.
Yuan Shao didn't listen.
Yuan Shao connected the camps and gradually advanced, slowly approaching Guandu. The two sides fought. As a result, Cao's army was defeated and retreated to the camp to hold on.
Yuan Shao built a tall watchtower and piled it into a mountain of earth, and fired arrows at Cao Cao's camp. The soldiers in the camp walked with shields on their heads.
So Cao Cao used a stone chariot to fire stones and destroyed all Yuan Shao's watchtowers. The soldiers in the army called them "Thunderbolt Chariots".
Yuan Shao dug tunnels to attack Cao Cao. Cao Cao immediately dug a long trench in the camp to stop Yuan Shao, and sent a surprise attack on Yuan's army's grain truck, burning all the grain.
The two sides fought for more than a hundred days, and the people south of the Yellow River were exhausted. Many people betrayed Cao Cao and joined Yuan Shao.
Yuan Shao sent Chunyu Qiong and others to lead more than 10,000 soldiers north to meet the troops transporting grain.
Jushu persuaded Yuan Shao to send Jiang Qi to lead another army as foreign aid to cut off Cao Cao's looting.
Yuan Shao disagreed.
Xu You offered advice and said: Cao Cao has few soldiers and all his troops are used to resist our army. The remaining defense force in Xu County must be empty and weak.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
若分遣轻军，星行掩袭，许拔则操成禽。
如其未溃，可令首尾奔命，破之必也。
绍又不能用。
会攸家犯法，审配收系之，攸不得志，遂奔曹操，而说使袭取淳于琼等。
琼等时宿在乌巢，去绍军四十里。
操自将步骑五千人，夜往攻破琼等，悉斩之。
初，绍闻操击琼，谓长子谭曰： 就操破琼，吾拔其营，彼固无所归矣。
乃使高览、张郃等攻操营，不下。
二将闻琼等败，遂奔操。
于是绍军惊扰，大溃。
绍与谭等幅巾乘马，与八百骑度河，至黎阳北岸，入其将军蒋义渠营。
至帐下，把其手曰： 孤以首领相付矣。
义渠避帐而处之，使宣令焉。
众闻绍在，稍复集。
余众伪降，曹操尽坑之，前后所杀八万人。
沮授为操军所执，乃大呼曰： 授不降也，为所执耳。
操见授谓曰： 分野殊异，遂用圮绝，不图今日乃相得也。
授对曰： 冀州失策，自取奔北。
授知力俱困，宜其见禽。
操曰： 本初无谋，不相用计。
translation: 
If another lightly-armed force is sent to attack day and night and capture Xu County, Cao Cao will naturally be captured.
Even if Cao Cao's army is not defeated, they can be forced to run from both ends and they will definitely defeat Cao Cao.
Yuan Shao couldn't accept it.
It happened that someone in Xu You's family broke the law and was imprisoned. Xu You felt frustrated, so he defected to Cao Cao and suggested that Cao Cao sneak attack Chunyu Qiong and others.
Chunyu Qiong and others were staying overnight at the Bird's Nest, which was forty miles away from Yuan Shao's troops.
Cao Cao personally led five thousand infantry and cavalry to attack Chunyu Qiong and others overnight and wiped them out.
Yuan Shao first learned that Cao Cao was attacking Chunyu Qiong, and said to his eldest son Yuan Tan: Even if Cao Cao defeats Chun Yuqiong and I capture Cao Cao's military camp, he will definitely have nowhere to return.
So he sent Gao Lan, Zhang He and others to attack Cao Cao's camp, but they couldn't capture it.
When the second general heard that Chunyu Qiong and others were defeated, he defected to Cao Cao.
At this time, Yuan Shao's army panicked and was completely defeated.
Yuan Shao, Yuan Tan and others, wearing turbans and riding horses, crossed the Yellow River with 800 cavalry, arrived at Liyang on the north bank, and entered the military camp of their general Jiang Yiqu.
When they arrived at Jiang Yiqu's tent, Yuan Shao took his hand and said, "I entrust my life to you."
Yiqu gave up his camp to Yuan Shao and asked him to issue orders.
Yuan Shao's tribe heard that Yuan Shao was alive, and gradually gathered together again.
The remaining tribesmen pretended to surrender, and Cao Cao buried them all alive. Eighty thousand people were killed one after another.
Jushou was captured by Cao Cao's army. He shouted loudly: I will not surrender, I am just captured.
Cao Cao saw Jushu and said to him: "We are not in the same place, so we are isolated from each other. I didn't expect to get you today."
Jushu replied: Yuan Jizhou made a mistake in his strategy and caused his own defeat.
My intelligence and ability are limited, so I was naturally caught.
Cao Cao said: Yuan Benchu ​​has no strategy and cannot adopt your strategy.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
今丧乱过纪，国家未定，方当与君图之。
授曰： 叔父、母、弟悬命袁氏，若蒙公灵，速死为福。
操叹曰： 孤早相得，天下不足虑也。
遂赦而厚遇焉。
授寻谋归袁氏，乃诛之。
绍外宽雅有局度，忧喜不形于色，而性矜愎自高，短于从善，故至于败。
及军还，或谓田丰曰： 君必见重。
丰曰： 公貌宽而内忌，不亮吾忠，而吾数以至言许之。
若胜而喜，必能赦我，战败而怨，内忌将发。
若军出有利，当蒙全耳，今既败矣，吾不望生。
绍还，曰： 吾不用田丰言，果为所笑。
遂杀之。
官度之败，审配二子为曹操所禽，孟岱与配有隙，因蒋奇言于绍曰： 配在位专政，族大兵强，且二子在南，必怀反畔。
郭图、辛评亦为然。
translation: 
Now the country has been in chaos for more than 12 years, and it still cannot be pacified. We are preparing to work with you to find a solution.
Jushu said: The lives of my uncle, mother, and brother hang in Yuan's hands. If you please allow me to die quickly, it will be my blessing.
Cao Cao sighed and said: If I had gotten you earlier, the world wouldn't have cared enough about you.
So he pardoned Ju and treated him favorably.
Soon Jushu tried to return to the Yuan family, and Cao Cao killed him.
Yuan Shao appears to be generous, elegant and considerate, and does not show sorrow or joy on his face. However, he is proud and arrogant by nature and cannot listen to correct opinions, which leads to failure.
When Yuan Shao's army returned, someone said to Tian Feng: You will definitely be used in important ways.
Tian Feng said: Mr. Yuan is generous on the surface but jealous in his heart. He does not believe in my loyalty, and I have offended him many times by telling the truth.
If he wins, he will definitely forgive me when he is happy; if he loses the battle, he will be resentful and jealous in his heart.
If I had been victorious, I would have been saved. Now that I have been defeated, I have no hope of surviving.
After Yuan Shao came back, he said: I didn't adopt Tian Feng's advice, and he really laughed at me.
So Tian Feng was killed.
Guan Du was defeated and Shen Pei's two sons were captured alive by Cao Cao. Meng Dai had a conflict with Shenpei, so he told Yuan Shao through Jiang Qi: Shenpei has monopolized power in office, has a large clan, strong military strength, and his two sons are in the south. He must want to rebel.
Guo Tu and Xin Ping also thought so.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
绍遂以岱为监军，代配守鄴。
护军逢纪与配不睦，绍以问之，纪对曰： 配天性烈直，每所言行，慕古人之节，不以二子在南为不义也，公勿疑之。
绍曰： 君不恶之邪？
纪曰： 先所争者私情，今所陈者国事。
绍曰： 善 。
乃不废配，配、纪由是更协。
冀州城邑多畔，绍复击定之。
自军败后发病，七年夏，薨。
未及定嗣，逢纪、审配宿以骄侈为谭所病，辛评、郭图皆比干谭而与配、纪有隙。
众以谭长，欲立之。
配等恐谭立而评等为害，遂矫绍遗命，奉尚为嗣。
translation: 
Yuan Shao then appointed Meng Dai as the supervisor of the army to guard Ye County instead of Shen Pei.
The guard Feng Ji and his colleagues tried to find out whether they were in harmony with each other. Yuan Shao asked Feng Ji about the incident. Feng Ji replied: "Shen Pei is strong and straightforward by nature. Every time he says something or does something, he admires the integrity of the ancients. He will not do anything unjust because his two sons are in the south. Don't doubt him."
Yuan Shao said: Don't you hate him?
Feng Ji said: In the past, the disputes were personal matters, but now we are talking about national affairs.
Yuan Shao said: That's so right.
So the judge was not dismissed. Since then, the relationship between Shen Pei and Feng Ji has become more harmonious.
Many cities in Jizhou rebelled against Yuan Shao, and Yuan Shao was busy attacking and pacifying these cities.
Yuan Shao became ill after his defeat. In the summer of the seventh year of Jian'an, Yuan Shao died.
Yuan Shao had not had time to determine his successor. Fengji and Shenpei had always disgusted Yuan Tan because of their pride and luxury. Xin Ping and Guo Tu were both close to Yuan Tan and had conflicts with Shenpei and Fengji.
Everyone thinks that Yuan Tan is older and wants to establish Yuan Tan.
Shen Pei and others were afraid that Xin Ping and others would harm them after Yuan Tan came to the throne, so they pretended to be sent by Yuan Shao and supported Yuan Shang as their successor.


