Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝和皇帝讳肇，肃宗第四子也。
母梁贵人，为窦皇后所谮，忧卒，窦后养帝以为己子。
建初七年，立为皇太子。
章和二年二月壬辰，即皇帝位，年十岁。
尊皇后曰皇太后，太后临朝。
三月丁酉，改淮阳为陈国，楚郡为彭城国，西平并汝南郡，六安复为庐江郡。
遗诏徙西平王羡为陈王，六安王恭为彭城王。
癸卯，葬孝章皇帝于敬陵。
庚戌，皇太后诏曰：
先帝以明圣，奉承祖宗至德要道，天下清静，庶事咸宁。
今皇帝以幼年，茕茕在疚，朕且佐助听政。
外有大国贤王并为蕃屏，内有公卿大夫统理本朝，恭己受成，夫何忧哉！
然守文之际，必有内辅以参听断。
侍中宪，朕之元兄，行能兼备，忠孝尤笃，先帝所器，亲受遗诏，当以旧典辅斯职焉。
宪固执谦让，节不可夺。
今供养两宫，宿卫左右，厥事已重，亦不可复劳以政事。
故太尉邓彪，元功之族，三让弥高，海内归仁，为群贤首，先帝褒表，欲以崇化。
今彪聪明康强，可谓老成黄耇矣。
其以彪为太傅，赐爵关内侯，录尚书事，百官总己以听，朕庶几得专心内位。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaohe was named Zhao, the fourth son of Emperor Suzong.
His mother, Liang Guiren, was framed by Empress Dou and died of melancholy. Empress Dou adopted the emperor as her own son.
In the seventh year of Jianchu's reign, he was established as the crown prince.
On February 30, the second year of Zhanghe, he became emperor and was ten years old.
The queen is respected as the empress dowager, and the empress dowager attends the court and listens to the government.
On the fifth day of March, Huaiyang was renamed Chen State, Chu County was renamed Pengcheng State, Xiping was merged into Runan County, and Liu'an was renamed Lujiang County.
The imperial edict moved Liu Xian, the king of Xiping, to be the king of Chen, and Liu Gong, the king of Liu'an, to be the king of Pengcheng.
On the 11th, Emperor Xiaozhang was buried in Jingling.
On the 18th, the Empress Dowager issued an edict:
The late emperor was a wise sage and inherited the great virtues of his ancestors. The world was peaceful and the affairs of the common people were peaceful.
The emperor is young and suffering from illness, so I will assist him in handling the affairs for the time being.
Outside there is a great country with a wise king, Ping Fan, and inside there are ministers and ministers who are in charge of the affairs of the country. If you just accept the success, what else do you have to worry about?
However, to abide by the established laws, we must have inner support and listening and judging.
Attendant Dou Xian is my eldest brother. He is capable, loyal and filial. He was highly regarded by the late emperor. He personally received the imperial edict and should shoulder this important responsibility according to the old regulations.
Dou Xian insisted on humility and integrity.
Now he supports the Imperial Palace and the Queen Mother's Palace, and serves as a night guard. The burden is already very heavy, and he can no longer work with him on political affairs.
Therefore, Taiwei Deng Biao, a descendant of Yuan Gong, let his younger brother inherit the title. He had a noble style, respected each other with benevolence in the country, and was the first among the sages. The late emperor praised him because he wanted everyone to follow his example.
Now Deng Biaoer is smart, healthy, and can be described as mature and capable.
Now that Deng Biao is appointed as Taifu, he will be given the title of Marquis of Guannei, and he will be in charge of the secretarial affairs. All officials will obey his orders, so I can concentrate on my internal position.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
於戏！
群公其勉率百僚，各修厥职，爱养元元，绥以中和，称朕意焉。
巍巍荡荡，莫与比隆。《周颂》曰： 于穆清庙，肃雍显相。请上尊庙曰肃宗，共进《武德》之舞。 制曰： 可。 癸亥，陈王羡、彭城王恭、乐成王党、下邳王衍、梁王畅始就国。
夏四月丙子，谒高庙。
丁丑，谒世祖庙。
戊寅，诏曰： 昔孝武皇帝致诛胡、越，故权收盐铁之利，以奉师旅之费。
自中兴以来，匈奴未宾，永平末年，复修征伐。
先帝即位，务休力役，然犹深思远虑，安不忘危，探观旧典，复收盐铁，欲以防备不虞，宁安边境。
而吏多不良，动失其便，以违上意。
先帝恨之，故遗戒郡国罢盐铁之禁，纵民煮铸，入税县官如故事。其申敕刺史、二千石，奉顺圣旨，勉弘德化，布告天下，使明知朕意。
五月，京师旱。
诏长乐少府桓郁侍讲禁中。
translation: 
ah!
The public should encourage all officials to do their jobs well, care for the people, everything will be in its proper place, and the country will be stable and harmonious, then that will be my heart.
On the 29th, the relevant departments reported: Emperor Xiaozhang has a magnificent imperial career, universal moral education and harmony, cares about the people, attaches great importance to agriculture, spreads culture to foreign lands, is powerful in martial arts, and has a human face. Towering and swaying, nothing can compare. "Song of Zhou" says: What a beautiful Wen Dynasty, with respectful and harmonious etiquette. Please come to the temple named Suzong and join us in the dance of "Wude". Emperor's instructions: Yes. In Guihai, King Liu Xian of Chen, King Liu Dang of Lecheng, King Liu Gong of Pengcheng, King Liu Yan of Xiapi, and King Liu Chang of Liang began to enter the fiefdom.
On the 15th day of the fourth lunar month in summer, I visited the Gaomiao Temple.
On the 16th, I visited Shizu Temple.
On the 17th, the edict stated: In the past, Emperor Xiaowu attacked Hu and Yue, so he temporarily confiscated the profits of salt and iron to use as military supplies.
Since the Zhongxing Dynasty, the Huns have not surrendered, and war broke out again in the last years of Yongping.
When the late emperor ascended the throne, he wanted to give laborers more rest. But he still thought deeply, never forgot the danger, reviewed the old rules and regulations, and then confiscated the benefits of salt and iron to prevent unexpected events and stabilize the border.
However, there were many bad officials and improper actions, which violated the emperor's original intention.
The late emperor hated it very much, and issued an imperial edict instructing the counties to waive the ban on salt and iron, let the people boil salt and cast iron, and pay taxes according to the previous regulations. The emperor now ordered the governor to obey the emperor's will and work hard to promote morality and publicize it to the world so that everyone can understand my intention.
In May, there was a drought in the capital.
Huan Yu, the Shaofu of Changle, was ordered to accompany the emperor to give lectures in the palace.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
冬十月乙亥，以侍中窦宪为车骑将军，伐北匈奴。
安息国遣使献师子、扶拔。
永元元年春三月甲辰，初令郎官诏除者得占丞、尉，以比秩为真。
夏六月，车骑将军窦宪出鸡鹿塞，度辽将军邓鸿出稒阳塞，南单于出满夷谷，与北匈奴战于稽落山，大破之，追至私渠比鞮海。
窦宪遂登燕然山，刻石勒功而还。
北单于遣弟右温禺鞮王奉奏贡献。
秋七月乙未，会稽山崩。
闰月丙子，诏曰： 匈奴背叛，为害久远。
赖祖宗之灵，师克有捷，丑虏破碎，遂扫厥庭，役不再籍，万里清荡，非朕小子眇身所能克堪。
有司其案旧典，告类荐功，以章休烈。
九月庚申，以车骑将军窦宪为大将军，以中郎将刘尚为车骑将军。
冬十月，令郡国弛刑输作军营，其徙出塞者，刑虽未竟，皆免归田里。
庚子，阜陵王延薨。
是岁，郡国九大水。
translation: 
On the 17th day of the tenth month in winter, he appointed Dou Xian, his attendant, as a chariot and cavalry general to attack the Northern Huns.
Parthian envoys were sent to offer lions and hornless lins.
On the 18th day of the third month in the first year of Yongyuan, when the first prince's official appointment was to supplement the chief minister or lieutenant, he could report it himself, and the rank comparison would be considered true.
In the sixth month of summer, General Dou Xian of Chariots and Cavalry sent troops to Jilu Sai, general Deng Hong of Liao Dynasty sent troops to He Guyang Sai, and Nan Shanyu sent troops to Manyi Valley to fight the Northern Xiongnu at Jiluo Mountain. They defeated the enemy and chased them to Private Channel Bihai.
Dou Xian climbed Yanran Mountain, carved stones to record his merits, and returned.
Northern Shanyu sent his younger brother You Wen, King Yu, to submit a letter of tribute.
On the eleventh day of the seventh month in autumn, Mount Kuaiji collapsed.
On the 22nd day of the seventh month, the edict said: The Huns' betrayal will cause long-lasting harm.
All thanks to the spirit of the ancestors, I won the battle, smashed the ugly prisoners, swept the holes and plowed the courts, stopped the war, and wiped out the thousands of miles of frontiers. This is not something that I, a small person, can do.
Relevant officials should follow the old system and offer sacrifices to heaven to commend the good deeds and heroes.
On the seventh day of September, Dou Xian, the general of chariots and cavalry, was appointed as the general, and Liu Shang, the general of the army, was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry.
In the tenth month of winter, the county was ordered to release the prisoners from their shackles and assign them to military camps for hard labor. Those who moved outside the Great Wall, even though their sentences had not yet been completed, were exempted from punishment and returned to the fields.
On the 18th, Fuling King Liu Yan passed away.
This year, there were floods in nine places in the county.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
二年春正月丁丑，大赦天下。
二月壬午，日有食之。
己亥，复置西河、上郡属国都尉官。
夏五月庚戌，分太山为济北国，分乐成、涿郡、勃海为河间国。
丙辰，封皇弟寿为济北王，开为河间王，淑为城阳王，绍封故淮阳王昞子侧为常山王。赐公卿以下至佐史钱、布各有差。
己未，遣副校尉阎磐讨北匈奴，取伊吾卢地。
丁卯，绍封故齐王晃子无忌为齐王，北海王睦子威为北海王。
车师前后王并遣子入侍。
月氏国遣兵攻西域长史班超，超击降之。
六月辛卯，中山王焉薨。
秋七月乙卯，大将军窦宪出屯凉州。
九月，北匈奴遣使称臣。
冬十月，遣行中郎将班固报命南单于。
遣左谷蠡王师子出鸡鹿塞，击北匈奴于河云北，大破之。
三年春正月甲子，皇帝加元服，赐诸侯王、公、将军、特进、中二千石、列侯、宗室子孙在京师奉朝请者黄金，将、大夫、郎吏、从官帛。
translation: 
On the twenty-sixth day of the first month of the second year of spring, a general amnesty was held.
On the second day of February, there is a solar eclipse.
On the 19th, the captaincy officers of the vassal states of Xihe and Shangjun were once again established.
On the first day of the fifth lunar month in summer, Taishan was divided into Jibei Kingdom, and Lecheng, Zhuojun, and Bohai were divided into Hejian Kingdom.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, the emperor's younger brother Liu Shou was named King of Jibei, Liu Kai was named King of Hejian, and Liu Shu was named King of Chengyang. The late King of Huaiyang, Liu Ribingzi Liu Bian, was named the King of Changshan. They were given various titles ranging from Gongqing to Zuoshi Qianbu.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Yan Pan, the deputy captain, was sent to attack the Northern Xiongnu and take the Yiwulu land.
On the 18th, Liu Wuji, the son of Liu Huang, the late King of Qi, was named the King of Qi, and Liu Wei, the son of Liu Mu, the King of Beihai, was named the King of Beihai.
Before and after the chariot master, the king sent his son to serve in the palace.
The Yuezhi Kingdom sent troops to attack Shi Banchao, the governor of the Western Regions. Banchao counterattacked and made the enemy surrender.
On June 12, Liu Yan, King of Zhongshan, passed away.
On the seventh day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, General Dou Xian sent troops to station in Liangzhou.
In September, the Northern Huns sent envoys to declare their vassal status.
In the tenth month of winter, Ban Gu, the agent of Zhonglang, was sent to pay a return visit to Nan Shanyu.
He sent his son, King Zuo Guli, to send troops to Jilu Sei to attack the Northern Huns north of Heyun, and severely defeated them.
On the 19th day of the first lunar month in the third year of spring, the emperor crowned him. Reward princes, princes, generals, Te Jin, Zhong 2,000 stones, princes, and clan descendants with gold requested from the court in the capital, generals, officials, officials, and official silk.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
赐民爵及粟帛各有差，大酺五日。
郡国中都官系囚死罪赎缣，至司寇及亡命，各有差。
庚辰，赐京师民酺，布两户共一匹。
二月，大将军窦宪遣左校尉耿夔出居延塞，围北单于于金微山，大破之，获其母阏氏。
夏六月辛卯，尊皇太后母比阳公主为长公主。
辛丑，阜陵王种薨。
冬十月癸未，行幸长安。
诏曰： 北狄破灭，名王仍降，西域诸国，纳质内附，岂非祖宗迪哲重光之鸿烈欤？
寤寐叹息，想望旧京。其赐行所过二千石长吏已下及三老、官属钱帛，各有差；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃、贫不能自存者粟，人三斛。
十一月癸卯，祠高庙，遂有事十一陵。
诏曰： 高祖功臣，萧、曹为首，有传世不绝之义。
曹相国后容城侯无嗣。
朕望长陵东门，见二臣之垅，循其远节，每有感焉。
忠义获宠，古今所同。
可遣使者以中牢祠，大鸿胪求近亲宜为嗣者，须景风绍封，以章厥功。
translation: 
They were given various gifts of nobles and grains of grain and silk, and they were given wine and entertainment for five days.
In all counties and counties, officials range from those on death row to atonement for their crimes, to those serving as bandits and exiles.
In Gengchen, the people of the capital were rewarded with wine and food, and two households were given a piece of cloth.
In February, General Dou Xian sent Geng Kui, the captain of the left school, to send troops to Yansai and besiege Beidan Yu in Jinwei Mountain. They defeated him and captured Beidan Yu's Mulan family.
On the eighteenth day of June in the summer, Princess Biyang, the Queen Mother, was honored as the eldest princess.
On the 28th, Fuling King Liu Zhong passed away.
On the twelfth day of the tenth month in winter, the emperor arrived in Chang'an.
The edict said: Beidi was destroyed, the famous kings surrendered one by one, and the countries in the Western Region accepted their pledges. Isn't this a great cause accomplished by the spiritual energy of the ancestors?
I sighed while sleeping, wishing to look back at the old capital. Today, the rewards are given to the officials below the 2,000-stone official and the three elders. They are officials, money and silk. Those who are widowers, widows, orphans, alone, terminally ill, and too poor to live will be given three husks of corn each.
On the second day of November, visit the Gaomiao Temple to worship the Eleven Tombs.
The edict said: Among the outstanding officials of Emperor Gaozu, Xiao He and Cao Shen were the first to be recommended. They have great significance in being famous for centuries and not being drowned.
The descendants of Cao Xiangguo, Marquis Rongcheng, have no descendants.
I looked at the east gate of Changling Tomb and saw the tomb of Erchen. I was moved every time I recalled the distant past.
Loyalty and righteousness are favored, both in ancient and modern times.
The envoys were ordered to sacrifice pigs and sheep, and Dahonglu sought out close relatives who were suitable as offspring. When the scenery came, he continued to create titles to commend his merits.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
十二月，复置西域都护、骑都尉、戊己校尉官。
庚辰，至自长安，减弛刑徒从驾者刑五月。
四年春正月，北匈奴右谷蠡王於除鞬自立为单于，款塞乞降。
遣大将军左校尉耿夔授玺绶。
三月癸丑，司徒袁安薨。闰月丁丑，太常丁鸿为司徒。
夏四月丙辰，大将军窦宪还至京师。
丙辰，郡国十三地震。
窦宪潜图弑逆。
庚申，幸北宫。
诏收捕宪党射声校尉郭璜，璜子侍中举，卫尉邓叠，叠弟步兵校尉磊。皆下狱死。
使谒者仆射收宪大将军印绶，遣宪及弟笃、景就国，到皆自杀。
是夏、旱、蝗。
秋七月己丑，太尉宋由坐党宪自杀。
八月辛亥，司空任隗薨。
癸丑，大司农尹睦为太尉，录尚书事。
丁巳，赐公卿以下至佐史钱、谷各有差。
冬十月己亥，宗正刘方为司空。
translation: 
In December, the Western Region Protectorate, Cavalry Captain, and Wuji School Lieutenant were re-established.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, the emperor returned from Chang'an, and the prisoners who had been released from their shackles followed the emperor's companions, who had their sentences reduced to five months.
In the first month of the spring of the fourth year, King Yougu Li of the Northern Xiongnu established himself as a chanyu in order to remove the enemy and seek surrender.
Geng Kui, the commander-in-chief of Zuo Xiaowei, was sent to grant the imperial seal.
On March 14th, Situ Yuan An passed away. On the ninth day of the third month, Taichang Ding Hong was appointed as Situ.
On April 18th in the summer, General Dou Xian returned to the capital.
On the first day of June, there is a solar eclipse. On the 19th, there was an earthquake in the county.
Dou Xian secretly murdered the emperor and rebelled.
On the 23rd, the emperor arrived at Beigong.
The order was issued to arrest Dou Xian's party member Shesheng Colonel Guo Huang. Guo Huang's son, Lieutenant Guo Ju, Guard Lieutenant Deng Die, and Deng Die's younger brother, Infantry Colonel Deng Lei, were all imprisoned to death.
He sent an emissary, Pu She, to collect the seal and ribbon of General Dou Xian, and sent Dou Xian and his brothers Dou Du and Dou Jing to the feudal country. They all committed suicide upon arrival.
This summer, there was drought and locust plague.
On July 23rd in autumn, Taiwei Song You committed suicide because Dou Xian rebelled against the party.
On August 15th, Sikong Renkai passed away.
On the 17th, Yin Mu, the chief minister, was appointed as Taiwei and in charge of Shangshu affairs.
On the 21st, the rewards ranged from Duke Qing to Assistant Secretary Qian Gu.
On the fourth day of October in winter, Zongzheng and Liu Fang were appointed Sikong.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
十二月壬辰，诏： 今年郡国秋稼为旱、蝗所伤，其什四以上勿收田租、刍稿；有不满者，以实除之。
武陵零陵澧中蛮叛。烧当羌寇金城。
五年春正月乙亥，宗祀五帝于明堂，遂登灵台，望云物。
大赦天下。
戊子，千乘王伉薨。
辛卯，封皇帝万岁为广宗王。
二月戊戌，诏有司省减内外厩及凉州诸苑马。
自京师离宫果园上林广成囿悉以假贫民，恣得采捕，不收其税。
丁未，诏曰： 去年秋麦入少，恐民食不足。
其上尤贫不能自给者户口人数。
往者郡国上贫民，以衣履釜鬵为赀，而豪右得其饶利。
诏书实核，欲有以益之，而长吏不能躬亲，反更征召会聚，令失农作，愁扰百姓。
若复有犯者，二千石先坐。 甲寅，太傅邓彪薨。
戊午，陇西地震。
三月戊子，诏曰： 选举良才，为政之本。
科别行能，必由乡曲。
translation: 
On Renchen in December, the edict said: If the autumn grain harvest of the county is poor this year due to drought and locust plague, and the loss is more than four-tenths, the land rent and firewood will not be collected; otherwise, if the loss is less than four-tenths, the actual amount will be exempted.
The barbarians in Lingling, Wuling, rebelled, and Qiang bandits burned and plundered Jincheng.
On the 11th day of the first lunar month in the fifth year of spring, the Five Emperors were worshiped in the Mingtang, and they climbed to the spiritual platform to look at the clouds and weather of the sky, earth and clouds.
Amnesty to the world.
On the 24th, Qiancheng King Liu and his wife passed away.
On the 27th, Liu Wansui, the emperor's younger brother, was granted the title of King Guangzong.
On the fifth day of February, an edict was issued to reduce the number of internal and external stables and Liangzhou horse gardens and horses.
Since then, the orchards of the imperial palace in Shanglin and Guangcheng have all been given to the poor, allowing them to harvest without collecting taxes.
On the 14th, the edict stated: Last year's autumn wheat harvest was small, and I feared that the people would not have enough food.
Please report the number of households that are extremely poor and cannot support themselves.
In the past, prefectures and counties reported that the poor had clothing, footwear, cauldrons, and tiles as their property to calculate their poverty level. The poor were afraid of increasing their burden, so in order to avoid taxes, they sold these things, and the rich and powerful bought them at a low price and made a huge profit.
The edict was verified in order to benefit the poor, but the officials could not personally handle the official affairs. Instead, they summoned gatherings for discussion, which delayed the farming season and disturbed the people.
Now if someone does this nonsense again, he will first be punished with two thousand stones. On the 21st, Grand Tutor Deng Biao passed away.
On the 25th, there was an earthquake in Longxi.
On March 25, the edict stated: Selection of good talents is the foundation of governance.
Different categories of moral skills must be recommended by the grassroots.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
而郡国举吏，不加简择，故先帝明敕在所，令试之以职，乃得充选。
又德行尤异，不须经职者，别署状上。
而宣布以来，出入九年，二千石曾不承奉，恣心从好，司隶、刺史讫无纠察。
今新蒙赦令，且复申敕，后有犯者，显明其罚。
在位不以选举为忧，督察不以发觉为负，非独州郡也。
是以庶官多非其人。下民被奸邪之伤，由法不行故也。 庚寅，遣使者分行贫民，举实流冗，开仓赈禀三十余郡。
夏四月壬子，封阜陵王种兄鲂为阜陵王。
六月丁酉，郡国三雨雹。
秋九月辛酉，广宗王万岁薨，无子，国除。
匈奴单于於除鞬叛，遣中朗将任尚讨灭之。
壬午，令郡县劝民蓄蔬食以助五谷。
其官有陂池，令得采取，勿收假税二岁。冬十月辛未，太尉尹睦薨。
十一月乙丑，太仆张酺为太尉。
是岁，武陵郡兵破叛蛮，降之。
护羌校尉贯友讨烧当羌，羌乃遁去。
南单于安国叛，骨都侯喜斩之。
translation: 
However, prefectures and counties elect officials without any selection, so the late emperor clearly ordered the relevant departments to try them out in actual work, and only those who are qualified will be appointed.
Those with particularly good moral character do not need to go through probation and can be reported separately.
However, for nine years since the announcement, Erqian Shi did not follow the instructions and only followed his own preferences. The Secretary and the Governor never checked and corrected him.
Now that a new amnesty order has been issued, past crimes will not be held accountable, and the amnesty order has been reaffirmed. Anyone who makes this mistake in the future will definitely be punished.
Those on the job do not take recommending talents seriously, and supervisors do not take it as their responsibility to detect such mistakes. This situation is not limited to states and counties.
Therefore, many officials are incompetent and the people are harmed by their cunning and evil deeds because the legal system is not enforced. On the 27th, envoys were sent to inspect the slums respectively. Based on the actual number of people dispersed, more than 30 counties opened warehouses to provide food relief.
On April 20th in the summer, Liu Zhong, brother of Liu Zhong, the king of Fuling, was granted the title of king of Fuling.
On the sixth day of the sixth lunar month in summer, there were three hailstorms in the county.
On the first day of the ninth lunar month in autumn, King Liu Wansui of Guangzong passed away without any children, and the feudal state was revoked.
The Xiongnu Chanyu rebelled against Ge Jian and sent Zhonglang to kill him with Ren Shang.
On the 22nd, counties and counties were ordered to persuade the common people to save vegetables and food to supplement the grain supply.
Government ponds can be harvested and fished by civilians, and no rent or tax will be collected for two years. At the end of the tenth month of winter, Taiwei Yin Mu passed away.
On the sixth day of November, Zhang Youfu, the imperial servant, was appointed as Taiwei.
This year, Wuling County soldiers defeated the rebels and surrendered them.
Guanyou, the captain who protected the Qiang, attacked the Shaodang Qiang, but the Qiang fled.
Nan Dan rebelled against An Guo, and Hou happy of Gudu killed him.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
六年春正月，永昌徼外夷遣使译献犀牛、大象。
己卯，司徒丁鸿薨。
二月乙未，遣谒者分行禀贷三河、兖、冀、青州贫民。
许阳侯马光自杀。
丁未，司空刘方为司徒，太常张奋为司空。
三月庚寅，诏流民所过郡国皆实禀之，其有贩卖者勿出租税，又欲就贱还归者，复一岁田租、更赋。
丙寅，诏曰： 朕以眇末，承奉鸿烈。
阴阳不和，水旱违度，济、河之域，凶馑流亡，而未获忠言至谋，所以匡救之策。
寤寐永叹，用思孔疚。
惟官人不得于上，黎民不安于下，有司不念宽和，而竞为苛刻，覆案不急，以妨民事，甚非所以上当天心，下济元元也。
思得忠良之士，以辅朕之不逮。
其令三公、中二千石、二千石、内郡守相举贤良方正、能直言极谏之士各一人。昭岩穴，披幽隐，遣诣公车，朕将悉听焉。 帝乃亲临策问，选补郎吏。
translation: 
In the spring of the sixth year and the first month of the first lunar month, the foreigners outside Yongchang sent envoys to translate the language and present rhinos and elephants.
On the 21st, Situ Dinghong passed away.
On the eighth day of the second lunar month, visitors were sent on separate inspection tours to lend grain stored in warehouses to the poor in Sanhe, Yan, Ji, and Qingzhou.
Xu Yanghou Ma Guang committed suicide.
On the 20th, Sikong Liu Fang was appointed Situ, and Taichang Zhang Fen was appointed Sikong.
In March of Gengyin, an order was issued to all the counties and counties where the refugees passed through to use warehouses to accumulate grain for relief according to the actual conditions. Those who sold goods to the refugees were not required to collect taxes. Those who wanted to return to their hometowns were exempted from one year's field rent and one year's service tax.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, the edict said: I am a humble person, but I have inherited a great imperial legacy.
The yin and yang are not harmonious, floods and droughts are greater than in the past, Jishui and the Yellow River Basin, famine and exile, but no good advice or strategies can be obtained to save it.
Day and night I sigh and worry anxiously.
If the officials do not do well at the top, the people will feel uneasy below. Those in charge do not talk about leniency, compete with each other to be harsh, review non-urgent matters over and over, and hinder people's agricultural work. This is entirely because the people above are not in line with the will of the Emperor of Heaven, and the people below cannot benefit from it.
I want to get loyal people to help me with my shortcomings.
I am now ordering Sangong, Zhong Erqianyou, Erqian Shi, and Neijun to recommend one person each who is virtuous and upright, who can speak outright and is willing to criticize. Please bring out talented people who live in seclusion in remote villages and send them to the bus door. I will personally listen to their opinions. So the emperor came to inquire in person and select the officials.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
夏四月，蜀郡徼外羌率种人遣使内附。
五月，城阳王淑薨，无子，国除。
六月己酉，初令伏闭尽日。
秋七月，京师旱。诏中都官徒各除半刑，谪其未竟，五月已下皆免遣。
丁巳，幸洛阳寺，录囚徒，举冤狱。
收洛阳令下狱抵罪，司隶校尉、河南尹皆左降。
未及还宫而澍雨。
西域都护班超大破焉耆、尉犁，斩其王。
自是西域降服，纳质者五十余国。
南单于安国从弟子逢侯率叛胡亡出塞。
九月癸丑，以光禄勋邓鸿行车骑将军事，与越骑校尉冯柱、行度辽将军朱徽、使匈奴中郎将杜崇讨之。
冬十一月，护乌桓校尉任尚率乌桓、鲜卑，大破逢侯，冯柱遣兵追击，复破之。
诏以勃海郡属冀州。
武陵溇中蛮叛，郡兵讨平之。
七年春正月，行车骑将军邓鸿、度辽将军朱徽、中郎将杜崇皆下狱死。
夏四月辛亥朔，日有食之。
帝引见公卿问得失，令将、大夫、御史、谒者、博士、议郎、郎官会廷中，各言封事。
诏曰： 元首不明，化流无良，政失于民，谪见于天。
translation: 
In the fourth month of summer, the Qiang people outside Shu County led their tribesmen to send envoys inside.
In May, Liu Shu, the king of Chengyang, passed away without any children, and the feudal state was revoked.
On June 23rd, with "the sun is full of ghosts," the order was given to stay in seclusion all day long and not do anything else.
In the seventh month of Autumn, there was a drought in the capital. The imperial edict ordered that all prisoners serving prison sentences would be exempted from half of their sentences, and those with unfinished sentences would be exiled. Those whose sentences were less than five months would be exempted from punishment and sent away.
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, the emperor went to the official residence in Luoyang to inspect and record the conditions of the prisoners, and to report and redress those who were unjustly imprisoned.
He was ordered to be imprisoned in Luoyang to atone for his crime, and both Sili Xiaowei and Henan Yin were demoted.
Before the emperor could return to the palace, he received timely rain.
The Western Region Guards Ban Chao defeated Yanqi and Yuli and killed their leaders.
From then on, the Western Regions surrendered, and more than fifty countries paid tribute, paid tribute, and sent hostages.
Fenghou, Nandan's cousin son from Anguo, led the rebellious Hu people to flee beyond the Great Wall.
In September of Guichou, he ordered Guang Luxun and Deng Hong to act as generals of chariots and cavalry, together with Feng Zhu, the Yue cavalry captain, Zhu Hui, the general of Liao Dynasty, and Du Chong, the Xiongnu lieutenant general, to attack.
In the eleventh month of winter, Ren Shang, the captain of the Wuhuan Guards, led Wuhuan and Xianbei and defeated Fenghou. Feng Zhu sent troops to pursue them and defeated them again.
The imperial edict transferred Bohai County to Jizhou.
The barbarians in the middle of Wuling rebelled, and the county soldiers defeated him.
In the first month of the spring of the seventh year, acting Chariot General Deng Hong, Du Liao General Zhu Hui, and Zhonglang General Du Chong were all imprisoned to death.
On the first day of April in summer, there is a solar eclipse.
The emperor summoned the ministers to inquire about the gains and losses of the state affairs, and ordered the generals, officials, censors, emissaries, doctors, Yilang and Langguan to gather in the palace and discuss confidential matters.
The edict said: The emperor is not wise, there is no good way to influence the popular customs, and his political affairs are not popular among the people, and God will also condemn him.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
深惟庶事，五教在宽，是以旧典因孝廉之举，以求其人。
有司详选郎官宽博有谋、才任典城者三十人。 既而悉以所选郎出补长、相。
五月辛卯，改千乘国为乐安国。
六月丙寅，沛王定薨。
秋七月乙巳，易阳地裂。
九月癸卯，京师地震。
八年春二月己丑，立贵人阴氏为皇后。
赐天下男子爵，人二级，三老、孝悌、力田三级，民无名数及流民欲占者一级；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃，贫不能自存者粟，人五斛。
夏四月癸亥，乐成王党薨。
甲子，诏赈贷并州四郡贫民。
五月，河内、陈留蝗。
南匈奴右温禺犊王叛，为寇。
秋七月，行度辽将军庞奋、越骑校尉冯柱追讨之，斩右温禺犊王。
车师后王叛，击其前王。
八月辛酉，饮酎。
诏郡国中都官系囚减死一等，诣敦煌戍。
其犯大逆，募下蚕室；其女子宫。
自死罪已下，至司寇及亡命者入赎，各有差。
translation: 
I am deeply reminded of the common people's common deeds, and the core of the five religions of father's righteousness, mother's kindness, brother and friend, brother's respect, and son's filial piety is forgiveness. Therefore, the old classics use the method of promoting filial piety and integrity to find capable people with both political integrity and talent.
The people in charge carefully and comprehensively selected thirty people from among the officials who were broad-minded and resourceful enough to be qualified for the official position. And immediately supplemented the selected officials as county magistrates and prime ministers.
On May 11th, Qiancheng Kingdom was changed to Le'an Kingdom.
On June 16, King Pei Liu Ding passed away.
On the twenty-sixth day of the seventh month in autumn, the ground cracked in Yiyang.
On September 25, there was an earthquake in the capital.
In the spring and February of the eighth year, Ji Chou made the noble Yin family queen.
Men in the world will be rewarded with a title of two degrees, three degrees for three elders, filial brothers, and Litian, and one grade for civilians without household registration and refugees who surrender; widows, widows, orphans, alone, terminally ill, and too poor to live, each will be given five dendrobiums of millet.
On April 18th in the summer, King Liu Dang passed away.
On the 19th, an edict was issued to provide relief to the poor in the four counties of Bingzhou.
In May, there was a locust plague in Hanoi and Tran Liu.
The southern Xiongnu king Youwen Yudu rebelled and became a bandit.
In the seventh month of Autumn, on behalf of General Pang Fen and Yue Cavalry Colonel Feng Zhu, they pursued and attacked and killed King Wenyu Du on the right.
The queen king of the chariot division rebelled and attacked his former king.
On the eighth day of the eighth lunar month, people drink wine made in the first month and made in the eighth month.
The governor of Zhaojun State reduced the death penalty to one level for the prisoners in custody and sent them to Dunhuang to guard the border.
Those who committed treason and were beheaded were imprisoned in the Jam Room and tortured. Women were subjected to castration.
From the death penalty to the atonement of the Sikou's escape, there are different levels of atonement.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
九月，京师蝗。
吏民言事者，多归责有司。
诏曰： 蝗虫之异，殆不虚生，万方有罪，在予一人，而言事者专咎自下，非助我者也。
朕寤寐恫矜，思弭忧衅。
昔楚严无灾而惧，成王出郊而反风。
将何以匡朕不逮，以塞灾变？
百僚师尹，勉修厥职，刺史、二千石详刑辟，理冤虐，恤鳏寡，矜孤弱，思惟致灾兴蝗之咎。 庚子，复置广阳郡。
冬十月乙丑，北海王威有罪自杀。
十二月辛亥，陈王羡薨。
丁巳，南宫宣室殿火。
九年春正月，永昌徼外蛮夷及掸国重译奉贡。
三月庚辰，陇西地震。
癸巳，济南王康薨。
西域长史王林击车师后王，斩之。
夏四月丁卯，封乐成王党子巡为乐成王。
六月，蝗、旱。
戊辰，诏： 今年秋稼为蝗虫所伤，皆勿收租、更、刍稿；若有所损失，以实除之，余当收租者亦半入。
其山林饶利，陂池渔采，以赡元元，勿收假税。
秋七月，蝗虫飞过京师。
translation: 
In September, there was a locust plague in the capital.
When officials and common people discuss things, they usually blame those in charge.
The edict said: The mutation of the locust plague did not happen for no reason. All parties are guilty, and the root cause lies with me alone. However, the blame for criticism lies solely with the people below. This is not helping me.
I was terrified day and night, and my thoughts were tense.
Once upon a time, there was no disaster in Chuzhuang, and he prayed to heaven. King Cheng suspected Zhou Gong, and there was a strong wind. He held a suburban sacrifice, and the wind blew back, and the fallen grain was turned right.
How will everyone help me enough to make up for the disaster?
Baiguanshi Yin tried his best to do his job well, and the governor and Erqianshi carefully tried the criminals, vindicated wrongs and false cases, compensated the widowers, widows, orphans, and singles, showed pity to the weak, and reflected on the sins of causing disasters and causing locusts. On the 28th, Guangyang County was restored.
On October 23rd in winter, Beihai King Liu Wei committed suicide due to guilt.
On the tenth day of December, King Chen Liu Xian passed away.
On the 16th, there was a fire in Xuanshi Palace in Nangong.
In the first month of the spring of the ninth year, the barbarians and the Shan country outside Yongchang, after many translations, became familiar with the language and paid tribute.
On the tenth day of March, there was an earthquake in Longxi.
On the 23rd, King Liu Kang of Jinan passed away.
Wang Lin, the governor of the Western Regions, attacked the Queen of Che Division and killed him.
On the 28th of April in the summer, Liu Xun, the son of Liu Dang, the king of success, was granted the title of king of success.
June, locust plague and drought.
On the 29th, the edict stated: This year's autumn harvest has been damaged by locusts. No field rent, tax changes, or manuscripts will be collected. All losses will be exempted according to the actual situation. Others who should collect rent should only collect half rent.
The mountains and forests are rich and profitable, and the fish and fish in the ponds are used to feed the common people without collecting taxes.
In autumn and July, locusts flew over the capital.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
八月，鲜卑寇肥如，辽东太守祭参下狱死。
闰月辛巳，皇太后窦氏崩。
丙申，葬章德皇后。
烧当羌寇陇西，杀长吏，遣行征西将军刘尚、越骑校尉赵世等讨破之。
九月庚申，司徒刘方策免，自杀。
甲子，追尊皇妣梁贵人为皇太后。
冬十月乙酉，改葬恭怀梁皇后于西陵。
十一月癸卯，光禄勋河南吕盖为司徒。
十二月丙寅，司空张奋罢。
壬申，太仆韩棱为司空。
己丑，复置若庐狱官。
十年春三月壬戌，诏曰： 堤防沟渠，所以顺助地理，通利壅塞。
今废慢懈弛，不以为负。
刺史、二千石其随宜疏导。
勿因缘妄发，以为烦扰，将显行其罚。
夏五月，京师大水。
秋七月己巳，司空韩棱薨。
八月丙子，太常太山巢堪为司空。
九月庚戌，复置廪牺官。
冬十月，五州雨水。
十二月，烧当羌豪迷唐等率种人诣阙贡献。
戊寅，梁王畅薨。
translation: 
In August, the Xianbei bandits plundered Feiru, and the Liaodong prefect sacrificed and imprisoned him for death.
On the 14th day of the eighth month, the Empress Dowager Dou passed away.
On the 29th, Queen Zhangde was buried.
The Shaodang Qiang bandits raided Longxi and killed the chief officials. They sent Liu Shang, the acting general who conquered the west, and Zhao Shi, the Yueqi captain, to attack and defeat them.
On September 24, Situ Liu Fang was dismissed from his post by Emperor Ce Shu and committed suicide.
On the 28th, the emperor's concubine Liang Guizhen was appointed as the empress dowager.
On October 19th in winter, Empress Gonghuai Liang was buried in Xiling.
On the eighth day of November, Guang Luxun and Henan Lu Gai were appointed as Situ.
On the first day of December, Sikong Zhangfen left.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Han Xun, the imperial servant, was appointed Sikong.
On the 24th, Ruolu prison officer was restored.
On March 28, in the spring of the tenth year, the edict stated: Embankments and ditches are used to straighten out the geography and make obstacles accessible.
Now I'm giving up on slacking off, I don't think I've made any mistakes.
The governor and Erqianshi should be guided at any time.
However, you must not use this to arbitrarily recruit manpower and material resources, which will increase annoyance, otherwise you will be punished according to the situation.
In the fifth month of summer, the capital was flooded.
On the twenty-seventh day of the seventh month in autumn, Sikong Hanxun passed away.
On August 15th, the Taishan nest in Taichang was empty.
On September 19, the official position of Linxi was restored.
In October in winter, there is a lot of rain in the five states.
In December, the Shaodang Qiang powerful Qiang Mi Tang and others led their tribes to pay tribute to the court.
On the 19th, Liang Wang Liu Chang passed away.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
十一年春二月，遣使循行郡国，禀贷被灾害不能自存者，令得渔采山林池泽，不收假税。
丙午，诏郡国中都官徒及笃癃老小女徒各除半刑，其未竟三月者，皆免归田里。
夏四月丙寅，大赦天下。
己巳，复置右校尉官。
秋七月辛卯，诏曰： 吏民逾僣，厚死伤生，是以旧令节之制度。
顷者贵戚近亲，百僚师尹，莫肯率从，有司不举，怠放日甚。
又商贾小民，或忘法禁，奇巧靡货，流积公行。
其在位犯者，当先举正。
市道小民，但且申明宪纲，勿因科令，加虐羸弱。
十二年春二月，旄牛徼外白狼、貗薄夷率种人内属。
诏贷被灾诸郡民种粮。
赐下贫、鳏、寡、孤、独、不能自存者，及郡国流民，听入陂池渔采，以助蔬食。
三月丙申，诏曰： 比年不登，百姓虚匮。京师去冬无宿雪，今春无澍雨，黎民流离，困于道路。
朕痛心疾首，靡知所济。瞻仰昊天，何辜今人？
translation: 
In the spring and February of the eleventh year, envoys were sent to inspect the prefecture, and the grain stored in the warehouses was lent to those who were unable to live due to the disaster, and they were allowed to collect firewood and fish in the mountains, forests, ponds, and marshes without charging any rent or tax.
On the 12th, the imperial edict was issued to all the officials in the prefecture and state to reduce their sentences by half for those sentenced to hard labor, those who were terminally ill, young and old, and those who had not yet completed their three-month sentence, and were released to the fields without penalty.
On the ninth day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, a general amnesty will be given to the whole world.
On the 12th, the right school lieutenant was restored.
On the fifth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, the edict stated: The officials and the people went beyond their own status and held lavish burials, which was detrimental to the living. Therefore, the old government decree stipulated a restrictive system.
Recently, close relatives and officials at all levels have not taken the lead in implementation, and the people in charge have not reported and stopped them. They have allowed it to go unchecked, and the situation is getting worse day by day.
There are also merchants and small people who do not follow the law and do not stop prohibiting it. They sell strange and inferior goods and openly hoard them.
Officials who break the rules must first correct themselves.
As long as the citizens of the city declare the law and strengthen education, they are not allowed to abuse the old, weak, sick and disabled in accordance with regulations and laws.
In the first month of the spring of the twelfth year, Bailang and Zhilou Boyi led their tribes to return to the interior.
The imperial edict issued loans to civilians in the disaster-stricken counties to grow grain.
Rewards were given to the poor, widowed, widowed, lonely, alone, unable to survive, as well as the refugees in the counties and counties, and allowed them to go to Pichi to fish and harvest, so as to supplement their vegetable diet.
On March 14, the edict stated: The harvest has been poor in the past few years, and the people lack food and clothing. There was no snow in the capital last winter, and there was no timely rain this spring. The people were displaced and the roads were blocked.
I am heartbroken and don't know any way to help. God, what are the sins of the people? Why should they suffer from hunger and cold?


Chunk 14: 
original: 
三公，朕之腹心，而未获承天安民之策。
数诏有司，务择良吏。
今犹不改，竞为苛暴，侵愁小民，以求虚名，委任下吏，假势行邪。
是以令下而奸生，禁至而诈起。
巧法析律，饰文增辞，货行于言，罪成乎手，朕甚病焉。
公卿不思助明好恶，将何以救其咎罚？
咎罚既至，复令灾及小民。
若上下同心，庶或有廖。
其赐天下男子爵，人二级，三老、孝悌、力田三级，民无名数及流民欲占者人一级；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃、贫不能自存者粟，人三斛。 壬子，赐博士员弟子在太学者布，人三匹。
夏四月，日南象林蛮夷反，郡兵讨破之。
闰月，赈贷敦煌、张掖、五原民下贫者谷。
戊辰，秭归山崩。
六月，舞阳大水，赐被水灾尤贫者谷，人三斛。
秋七月辛亥朔，日有食之。九月戊午，太尉张酺免。
丙寅，大司农张禹为太尉。
冬十一月，西域蒙奇、兜勒二国遣使内附，赐其王金印紫绶。
translation: 
Sangong is my confidant, but he has not come up with a strategy to govern the world according to God's will.
Many edicts have been issued that those in charge must choose good officials.
If you don't change it now, you will be harsh and violent, infringing on the common people, and in order to gain a false reputation, let the petty officials below use their power to do evil.
Therefore, when an order is issued, evil will follow; when prohibitions are announced, fraud will occur.
They misinterpret the law, embellish the language, and bribe people to speak. Ordinary people commit crimes at every turn, which makes me very headache.
If the minister doesn't think about right and wrong, how can he save himself from punishment?
Now that the punishment has appeared, the common people will have no choice but to suffer again.
If everyone works together to make corrections, it should be possible.
Now every man in the world is rewarded with two levels of nobility, three levels for the three elders, filial brothers, and Litian, and one level for each commoner who has no household registration and a refugee who has returned home; widows, widows, orphans, alone, terminally ill, and too poor to live, each person will be given three dendrobiums of millet. On the 30th, each of the doctor's disciples in Taixue was rewarded with three pieces of cloth.
In April of summer, the barbarians in Rinan Xianglin rebelled, and the county soldiers defeated them.
In the leap month of May, relief loans were provided to the poorest civilians in Dunhuang, Zhangye, and Wuyuan.
On the 17th, a landslide occurred in Zigui.
In June, the Wuyang Flood gave each of the poorest people affected by the flood three hugs of dendrobium.
On the first day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, there is a solar eclipse. On the ninth day of September, Taiwei Zhang Youfu was dismissed from his post.
On the 17th, Zhang Yu, the chief minister, was appointed Taiwei.
In the eleventh month of winter, envoys from Mengqi and Dole in the Western Regions were entrusted to the two kings with gold seals and purple ribbons.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
是岁，烧当羌复叛。
十三年春正月丁丑，帝幸东观，览书林，阅篇籍，博选术艺之士以充其官。
二月，任城王尚薨。
丙午，赈贷张掖、居延、朔方、日南贫民及孤、寡、羸弱不能自存者。
秋八月，诏象林民失农桑业者，赈贷种粮，禀赐下贫谷食。
己亥，北宫盛馔门阁火。
护羌校尉周鲔击烧当羌，破之，荆州雨水。
九月壬子，诏曰： 荆州比岁不节，今兹淫水为害，余虽颇登，而多不均浃，深惟四民农食之本，惨然怀矜。
其今天下半入今年田租、刍稿；有宜以实除者，如故事。
贫民假种食，皆勿收责。冬十一月，安息国遣使献师子及条枝大爵。
丙辰，诏曰： 幽、并、凉州户口率少，边役众剧，束脩良吏，进仕路狭。
抚接夷狄，以人为本。
translation: 
This year, the Shaodang Qiang rebelled again.
On the 30th day of the first lunar month in the spring of the thirteenth year, the emperor went to Dongguan, visited the bookstore, read books, and selected people with skills in classics to serve as officials.
In February, Liu Shang, the king of Rencheng, passed away.
On the 29th, money and materials were lent to the poor people in Zhangye, Juyan, Shuofang, and Rinan, as well as those who were lonely, alone, and weak and unable to survive.
In the eighth month of autumn, an edict was issued to provide relief and loans to those common people in Xianglin who were unable to engage in mulberry farming, and to provide grain crops to the poorest warehouses to accumulate grain.
On the 25th, a fire broke out in the Shengmenmen Pavilion of Beigong.
Zhou Tuna, the captain of the Qiang Protector, attacked Shaodang Qiang and defeated him. Jingzhou has a lot of rain.
On the ninth day of the ninth lunar month, the edict said: Jingzhou has had bad weather for many years, and now it is affected by floods. Although some have some harvests, the quality is uneven. Thinking that scholars, farmers, industry, commerce, and agriculture are the basis of agriculture and food, I can't help feeling miserable and pitiful. I now order the world to rent half of the land this year.
If there are circumstances that should be exempted based on actual circumstances, they will be exempted as usual. Don’t repay the seed rations borrowed by the poor.
In November of winter, Parthian people sent people to offer lions and ostriches with branches.
On the 14th, the edict said: You, Bing, and Liangzhou have few household registrations and many frontier servants. Good officials are recommended and the roads are narrow.
To appease and receive foreigners, it all depends on the right candidates.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
其令缘边郡口十万以上，岁举孝廉一人；不满十万，二岁举一人；五万以下，三岁举一人。 鲜卑寇右北平，遂入渔阳，渔阳太守击破之。
戊辰，司徒吕盖罢。
十二月丁丑，光禄勋鲁恭为司徒。
辛卯，巫蛮叛，寇南郡。
十四年春二月乙卯，东海王政薨。
缮修故西海郡，徙金城西部都尉以戍之。
三月戊辰，临辟雍，飨射，大赦天下。
夏四月，遣使者督荆州兵讨巫蛮，破降之。
庚辰，赈贷张掖、居延、敦煌、五原、汉阳、会稽流民下贫谷，各有差。
五月丁未，初置象林将兵长史官。
六月辛卯，废皇后阴氏，后父特进纲自杀。
秋七月甲寅，诏复象林县更赋、田租、刍稿二岁。
壬子，常山王侧薨。
是秋，三州雨水。
冬十月甲申，诏： 兖、豫、荆州今年水雨淫过，多伤农功。
translation: 
Counties in remote areas with a population of more than 100,000 are now ordered to elect one person for Xiaolian every year. Counties with a population of less than 100,000 should elect one person every two years. Counties with a population of less than 50,000 should elect one person every three years. The Xianbei bandits raided Youbeiping and invaded Yuyang. The governor of Yuyang defeated Xianbei.
On the 28th, Situ Lugai was dismissed from office.
On the fifth day of December, Guang Luxun and Lu Gong were appointed as Situ.
On the 19th, the Wuman rebelled and the bandits plundered Nanjun.
In the spring and February of the fourteenth year of Yimao, Liu Zheng, the king of East China Sea, passed away.
The original Xihai County was repaired and the western captain of Jincheng was dispatched to garrison.
On the twenty-seventh day of the third month, the emperor came to Piyong, feasted on the guests, and shot dodder heads with the princes. Amnesty to the world.
In April of Xia, he sent an envoy to supervise the Jingzhou soldiers to attack the Wuman, defeated them and made them surrender.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, relief loans were provided to the refugees in Zhangye, Juyan, Dunhuang, Wuyuan, Hanyang, Kuaiji and the poorest grains.
On the seventh day of the fifth lunar month, Xianglin, the commander of generals, commanders and historians was appointed for the first time.
On June 12, the Queen Yin clan was deposed, and the Queen's father committed suicide in Yin Gang.
On the 15th day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, the edict exempted Xianglin County from paying taxes, renting land, and drafting manuscripts for two years.
On the 13th, Liu Xiang, the king of Changshan, passed away.
There was a lot of rain in the three states this autumn.
On the 17th day of the tenth month in winter, the edict said: Yan, Henan, and Jingzhou will suffer from floods and rains this year, which will greatly damage the agricultural performance.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
其令被害什四以上皆半入田租、刍稿；其不满者，以实除之。 辛卯，立贵人邓氏为皇后。
丁酉，司空巢堪罢。
十一月癸卯，大司农徐防为司空。
是岁，初复郡国上计补郎官。
十五年春闰月乙未，诏流民欲还归本而无粮食者，过所实禀之，疾病加致医药；其不欲还归者，勿强。
二月，诏禀贷颍川、汝南、陈留、江夏、梁国、敦煌贫民。
夏四月甲子晦，日有食之。五月戊寅，南阳大风。
六月，诏令百姓鳏、寡渔采陂池，勿收假税二岁。
秋七月丙寅，济南王错薨。
复置涿郡故安铁官。
九月壬午，南巡狩，清河王庆、济北王寿、河间王开并从。
赐所过二千石长吏以下、三老、官属及民百年者钱、布，各有差。
是秋，四州雨水。
冬十月戊申，幸章陵，祠旧宅。
癸丑，祠园庙，会宗室于旧庐，劳赐作乐。
戊午，进幸云梦，临汉水而还。
十一月甲申，车驾还宫，赐从臣及留者公卿以下钱、布，各有差。
十二月庚子，琅邪王宇薨。
translation: 
Now, if the harvest is only four-tenths or more, it will be included in the field rent and half of the harvest. If it is less than this amount, it will be exempted according to the actual situation. On the 24th, the noble Deng was made queen.
On the 30th, Sikong Chaokan was dismissed from office.
On the sixth day of November, Xu Fang, the great minister, was appointed as Sikong.
In this year, the government resumed the establishment of officials in the county and state.
On the 30th day of the first lunar month in the spring of the 15th year, the edict was issued to the refugees who wanted to return to their native places but had no food. They would be given food stored in warehouses according to the actual conditions of the places they passed through, and those who were sick would be given medicine. Those who did not want to return to their native places should not be forced.
In February, the imperial edict was issued to lend grain stored in warehouses to the poor in Yingchuan, Runan, Chenliu, Jiangxia, Liangguo, and Dunhuang.
On April 30th in summer, there was a solar eclipse. On May 14th, there was a strong wind in Nanyang.
In June, the order was issued that widows and widowers could fish and log in Pichi without collecting rent and taxes for two years.
On the third day of the seventh lunar month in Autumn, Liu Cuo, king of Jinan, passed away.
The Gu'an Iron Official of Zhuo County was restored.
On September 20th, the emperor inspected the south, accompanied by Liu Qing, king of Qinghe, Liu Shou, king of Jibei, and Liu Kai, king of Hejian.
The reward for the land passed by was 2,000 stones, and the officials and officials below, the three elders, the officials and the people were given money and cloth ranging from 100 years old.
This autumn, there was a lot of rain in the four states.
On the seventeenth day of the tenth month in winter, the emperor went to Zhangling to pay homage to his old residence.
On the 22nd, sacrifices were held at the Yuan Temple, and the clan members were gathered at the old house to express their condolences, rewards, and have fun.
On the twenty-seventh day, the emperor entered Yunmeng and returned to the Han River.
On November 23, the emperor returned to the palace and rewarded his entourage and the ministers who stayed behind with the following amounts of money and cloth.
On the tenth day of the twelfth lunar month, Liu Yu, king of Langyi, passed away.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
有司奏，以为夏至则微阴起，靡草死，可以决小事。
是岁，初令郡国以日北至案薄刑。
十六年春正月己卯，诏贫民有田业而以匮乏不能自农者，贷种粮。
二月己未，诏兖、豫、徐、冀四州比年雨多伤稼，禁沽酒。
夏四月，遣三府掾分行四州，贫民无以耕者，为雇犁牛直。
五月壬午，赵王商薨。
秋七月，旱。
戊午，诏曰： 今秋稼方穗而旱，云雨不沾，疑吏行惨刻，不宣恩泽，妄拘无罪，幽闭良善所致。
其一切囚徒于法疑者勿决，以奉秋令。
方察烦苛之吏，显明其罚。 辛酉，司徒鲁恭免。
庚午，光禄勋张酺为司徒。
辛巳，诏今天下皆半入今年田租、刍稿；其被灾害者，以实除之。
贫民受贷种粮及田租、刍稿，皆勿收责。
八月己酉，司徒张酺薨。
冬十月辛卯，司空徐防为司徒，大鸿胪陈宠为司空。
translation: 
The person in charge requested that because the summer solstice is here, the yin is born and the weeds are dead, it can be punished with light punishments and small crimes.
This year, for the first time, the county was ordered to impose a light sentence on the summer solstice.
On the 19th day of the first lunar month in the spring of the 16th year, an order was issued to poor people who had land that they could not cultivate due to lack of land, and to lend it to grow grain.
On February 30, the four prefectures of Yan, Henan, Xu, and Hebei were ordered to ban wine-making due to frequent rains and poor harvests.
In April of summer, the three governors were sent to inspect the four prefectures respectively. The poor who were unable to farm had to hire plows and oxen for farming tools.
On May 24th, King Zhao Liu Shang passed away.
In autumn and July, there is a drought.
On the first day of the Lunar New Year, the edict said: "This year's autumn crops were hit by drought just after heading, and the clouds and rain were not moist at all. This was suspected to be retribution for the cruel and mean behavior of officials, who did not promote the favor of the court, captured innocent people at will, and confined good people."
All prisoners who still have doubts about whether they will be sentenced according to the law should not make a decision until the autumn.
Examine the officials who are annoying and harsh and punish them clearly. On the fourth day of the Lunar New Year, Situ Lugong was dismissed from office.
On the 13th, Guang Luxun and Zhang Youfu were appointed as Situ.
On the 24th, the imperial edict was issued that the country should only pay half of the land rent and cuo manuscripts this year, and those who suffered disasters would be exempted from verification.
The poor people will not be required to recover the grain, land rent, and drafts lent to them.
On August 22, Situ Zhang Youfu passed away.
On the fifth day of the tenth lunar month in winter, Sikong Xu Fang was appointed Situ, and Dahonglu Chen Chong was appointed Sikong.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
十一月己丑，行幸缑氏，登百岯山，赐百官从臣布，各有差。
北匈奴遣使称臣贡献。
十二月，复置辽东西部都尉官。
元兴元年春正月戊午，引三署郎召见禁中，选除七十五人，补谒者、长、相。
高句骊寇郡界。
夏四月庚午，大赦天下，改元元兴。
宗室以罪绝者，悉复属籍。
五月癸酉，雍地裂。
秋九月，辽东太守耿夔击貊人，破之。
冬十二月辛未，帝崩于章德前殿，年二十七。
立皇子隆为皇太子。赐天下男子爵，人二级，三老、孝悌、力田人三级，民无名数及流民欲占者人一级；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃、贫不能自存者粟，人三斛。
自窦宪诛后，帝躬亲万机。
每有灾异，辄延问公卿，极言得失。
前后符瑞八十一所，自称德薄，皆抑而不宣。
旧南海献龙眼、荔支，十里一置，五里一候，奔腾阻险，死者继路。
translation: 
In the eleventh month of the month, Ji Chou, the emperor went to Fengshi, climbed Baichui Mountain, and rewarded hundreds of officials and entourage with various pieces of cloth.
The Northern Huns sent envoys to pay tribute.
In December, the governor of eastern Liaoning was restored.
On the fourth day of the first lunar month of spring in the first year of Yuanxing, three ministers were summoned to the palace and seventy-five people were selected to serve as visitors, chiefs, and ministers.
Gaoguli bandits raided the county boundaries.
On the Gengwu day of the fourth month of summer, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world, and the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Yuan Xing.
Clan members whose clan ties are severed due to crimes will be reinstated.
On May 21st, Yongdi collapsed.
In the ninth month of autumn, Geng Kui, the governor of Liaodong, attacked the Qi people and defeated them.
On December 22nd in winter, the emperor passed away in the front hall of Zhangde at the age of twenty-seven.
The prince Liu Long was made the crown prince, and the male titles in the world were given to each man, with a second-level title, three elders, filial brothers, and Litian each with a three-level title, each person without household registration and a refugee who had returned home was given a first-level title; each person who was widowed, lonely, alone, terminally ill, and too poor to survive was given three dendrobiums of millet.
After Dou Xian committed suicide in fear of crime, the emperor personally took charge of state affairs.
Whenever there is a disaster, he often consults the officials and discusses the gains and losses.
The eighty-one auspicious symbols and auspicious omens before and after all claim to be virtuous and do not publicize them.
The South China Sea offers longan. Litchi, one post for ten miles and one fork for five miles, is carried day and night by the post horses, galloping to block dangers, and the dead follow the way.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
时临武长汝南唐羌，县接南海，乃上书陈状。
帝下诏曰： 远国珍羞，本以荐奉宗庙，苟有伤害，岂爱民之本。
其敕太官勿复受献。 由是遂省焉。
论曰：自中兴以后，逮于永元，虽颇有弛张，而俱存不扰，是以齐民岁增，辟土世广。
偏师出塞，则漠北地空；都护西指，则通译四万。岂其道远三代，术长前世？
将服叛去来，自有数也？
孝殇皇帝讳隆，和帝少子也。
元兴元年十二月辛未夜，即皇帝位，时诞育百余日。
尊皇后曰皇太后，太后临朝。
北匈奴遣使称臣，诣敦煌奉献。
延平元年春正月辛卯，太尉张禹为太傅。
司徒徐防为太尉，参录尚书事，百官总己以听。
封皇兄胜为平原王。
癸卯，当禄勋梁鲔为司徒。
三月甲申，葬孝和皇帝于慎陵，尊庙曰穆宗。
丙戌，清河王庆、济北王寿、河间王开、常山王章始就国。
夏四月庚申，诏罢祀官不在祀典者。
鲜卑寇渔阳，渔阳太守张显追击，战没。
丙寅，以虎贲中郎将邓骘为车骑将军。
司空陈宠薨。
五月辛卯，皇太后诏曰： 皇帝幼冲，承统鸿业，朕且权佐助听政，兢兢寅畏，不知所济。
translation: 
At this time, the head of Linwu County, Runan, was from Tang Qiang. Since the county was connected to the South China Sea, he knew the actual situation and wrote a letter explaining the situation.
The emperor issued an edict saying: The delicacies from distant mountains and seas were originally recommended for worship in ancestral temples. If there is any harm caused by this, it is not in line with the original intention of loving the people.
The eunuch is now ordered not to accept this kind of dedication again. From now on, the errand of transporting lychees and longans is saved.
Historians commented: From the resurgence of the Han Dynasty to the Yongyuan Dynasty, although state affairs were tense and relaxed, there were no disturbances. Therefore, the population increased year by year, territories were opened up, and the world was wide.
The partial troops left the fortress, the Xiongnu fled, and the land in Mobei was empty; the governor went on an expedition to the Western Regions, conquered more than 50 countries, and translated the language for 40,000 miles. Could it be that their governance has exceeded three generations, and their governance skills are better than those of the previous life?
Or is it determined by the number of days between surrendering and rebelling?
Emperor Xiaoshang was named Long, and he was the youngest son of Emperor Xiaoshang.
On the night of December 22nd of the first year of Yuanxing, when he became emperor, he was only more than a hundred days old.
The queen is respected as the empress dowager, and the empress dowager governs the court.
The Northern Huns sent envoys to pay tribute to Dunhuang.
On the thirteenth day of the first spring of the first year of Yanping, Zhang Yu was appointed Taifu.
Situ Xu Fang was appointed as Taiwei, and he participated in the affairs of the general secretary. All officials had their own duties and obeyed his command.
The emperor's brother Liu Sheng was granted the title of King of Pingyuan.
On the 25th, Guang Luxun and Liang Tuna were appointed as Situ.
On the fifth day of March, Emperor Xiaohe was buried in Shenling, and the temple title was Muzong.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, King Liu Qing of Qinghe, King Liu Shou of Jibei, King Liu Kai of Hewen, and King Liu Zhang of Changshan arrived in Fengguo for the first time.
On the 13th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, an edict was issued to remove the priests who were not at the ceremony.
The Xianbei bandits raided Yuyang, and Zhang Xian, the prefect of Yuyang, pursued them, but Zhang Xian died in the battle.
On the 19th, he appointed Huben Zhonglang, General Deng Zhi, as the Chariot and Cavalry General.
Sikong Chen Chong passed away.
On May 15, the Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: The emperor is young and has inherited a great cause. I will temporarily assist in political affairs and work conscientiously. I don't know how to do a good job in the cause.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
深惟至治之本，道化在前，刑罚在后。将稽中和，广施庆惠，与吏民更始。
其大赦天下。
自建武以来诸犯禁锢，诏书虽解，有司持重，多不奉行，其皆复为平民。 壬辰，河东垣山崩。
六月丁未，太常尹勤为司空。
郡国三十七雨水。
己未，诏曰： 自夏以来，阴雨过节，暖气不效，将有厥咎。
寤寐忧惶，未知所由。
昔夏后恶衣服，菲饮食，孔子曰 吾无间然 。
今新遭大忧，且岁节未和，彻膳损服，庶有补焉。
其减太官、导官、尚方、内署诸服御珍膳靡丽难成之物。
丁卯，诏司徒、大司农、长乐少府曰： 朕以无德，佐助统政，夙夜经营，惧失厥衷。
思惟治道，由近及远，先内后外。
自建武之初以至于今，八十余年，宫人岁增，房御弥广。
又宗室坐事没入者，犹托名公族，甚可愍焉。
今悉免遣，及掖庭宫人，皆为庶民，以抒幽隔郁滞之情。
诸官府、郡国、王侯家奴婢姓刘及疲癃羸老，皆上其名，务令实悉。
translation: 
Deeply considering the fundamentals of governing the country and ensuring peace of the country, with guidance and enlightenment at the forefront and punishment at the back, I will study the golden mean, apply benefits widely, and move forward together with the officials and the people.
Today there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
Prisoners who had been imprisoned since the Jianwu period were liberated by edicts, but the people in charge were extremely cautious and often did not implement them. Now they are all restored to civilian status. On the 16th, a landslide occurred in Hedongyuan County.
On the first day of June, Taichang Yin Qin was appointed Sikong.
Thirty-seven places in the county have a lot of rain.
On the 13th, the edict stated: Since the beginning of summer, there has been too much rain and insufficient heating, which is due to the evildoers of those in power.
I am worried day and night, not knowing what to do.
Confucius said, "I have no problem with this."
I have been in great trouble recently. And if the seasons are not harmonious, it may be beneficial to eliminate waste in food and clothing.
With the exception of Taiguan, Daoguan, Shangfang, and various internal departments, it is difficult to do things that are luxurious and luxurious.
On the 21st, he ordered Situ, Da Sinong, and Changle Shaofu to say: As a person of poor virtue, I assist the emperor in managing government affairs and run the affairs day and night, for fear of neglecting my duties.
When considering the method of governing a country, one should start from near to far, internal first and then external.
From the early years of Jianwu to the present, for more than eighty years, the number of people in the palace has increased every year, and more houses have been built.
Moreover, it is very pitiful for a clan member to be expelled from the palace due to a crime, but to be named as a duke.
Nowadays, all the people are exempted from dismissal, and all the people in the harem are common people, so as to relieve their suffering of isolation and stagnation.
All slaves and maids named Liu from all government offices, prefectures, and princes' families, as well as those who are tired, sick, and old, must be put on the list, and all must be implemented.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
秋七月庚寅，敕司隶校尉、部刺史曰： 夫天降灾戾，应政而至。
间者郡国或有水灾，妨害秋稼。
朝廷惟咎，忧惶悼惧。
而郡国欲获丰穰虚饰之誉，遂覆蔽灾害，多张垦田，不揣流亡，竞增户口，掩匿盗贼，令奸恶无惩，署用非次，选举乖宜，贪苛惨毒，延及平民。
刺史垂头塞耳，阿私下比， 不畏于天，不愧于人 。
假贷之恩，不可数恃，自今以后，将纠其罚。
二千石长吏其各实核所伤害，为除田租，刍稿。
八月辛亥，帝崩。
癸丑，殡于崇德前殿。年二岁。
赞曰： 孝和沈烈，率由前则。
王赫自中，赐命强慝。
抑没祥符，登显时德。
殇世何早，平原弗克。
translation: 
On the 15th day of the seventh lunar month in the autumn, he ordered the Sili Xiaowei and the Ministry of Governors to say: "The disasters from heaven are caused by bad political affairs."
There may be floods in the county recently, which will hinder the autumn harvest.
The court is to blame and is worried and frightened.
However, the county only wanted to gain the false reputation of a bumper harvest, so it covered up disasters, overreported the acres of sown fields, failed to estimate the number of refugees, overreported household registrations, and concealed thieves, so that evildoers were not punished.
The governor lowered his head and plugged his ears, colluding with others, not afraid of divine punishment or sorry for others.
Small favors cannot win over people for a long time. From now on, correction will be punished.
Two thousand stone chief officials should each verify the disaster situation and exempt themselves from land rent and drafts.
On the sixth day of August, the emperor passed away.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, he was buried in the front hall of Chongde at the age of two.
Historians praised: Emperor He's calmness and firmness were the result of following the traditions of his ancestors.
He suddenly got angry and punished the evildoers, and the traitors like Dou Xian were subdued.
Instead of preaching about auspicious signs and auspicious omens, we can select and appoint talented people like Deng Biao who are popular among the people.
Emperor Shang died young, and like Liu Sheng, the king of Pingyuan, could not bear the heavy responsibility and enjoy the world.


