Chunk 0: 
original: 
司马褧，字元素，河内温人也。
曾祖纯之，晋大司农高密敬王。
祖让之，员外常侍。
父燮，善《三礼》，仕齐官至国子博士。
褧少传家业，强力专精，手不释卷，其礼文所涉书，略皆遍睹。
沛国刘献为儒者宗，嘉其学，深相赏好。
少与乐安任昉善，昉亦推重焉。
初为国子生，起家奉朝请，稍迁王府行参军。
天监初，诏通儒治五礼，有司举褧治嘉礼，除尚书祠部郎中。
是时创定礼乐，褧所议多见施行。
除步兵校尉，兼中书通事舍人。
褧学尤精于事数，国家吉凶礼，当世名儒明山宾、贺蒨等疑不能断，皆取决焉。
累迁正员郎、镇南谘议参军，兼舍人如故。
迁尚书右丞。
出为仁威长史、长沙内史。
还除云骑将军，兼御史中丞，顷之即真。
十六年，出为宣毅南康王长史、行府国并石头戍军事。
褧虽居外官，有敕预文德、武德二殿长名问讯，不限日。
十七年，迁明威将军、晋安王长史，未几卒。
王命记室庾肩吾集其文为十卷，所撰《嘉礼仪注》一百一十二卷。
到溉，字茂灌，彭城武原人。
曾祖彦之，宋骠骑将军。
祖仲度，骠骑江夏王从事中郎。
父坦，齐中书郎。
溉少孤贫，与弟洽俱聪敏有才学，早为任昉所知，由是声名益广。
起家王国左常侍，转后军法曹行参军，历殿中郎。
出为建安内史，迁中书郎，兼吏部，太子中庶子。
湘东王绎为会稽太守，以溉为轻车长史、行府郡事。
高祖敕王曰： 到溉非直为汝行事，足为汝师，间有进止，每须询访。
translation: 
The character element of Sima Ming is from Wen, Hanoi.
My great-grandfather's name was Chunzhi, and he was the great minister of the Jin Dynasty, Gaomi Jingwang.
His grandfather's name was Rang, and he was appointed as an official and a regular attendant.
His father, Sima Xie, was good at "Three Rites" and served as an official in the Qi Dynasty until he became a doctor of Guozi.
Sima Xian inherited the family business when he was young. He was strong and dedicated in his work. He never let go of the books and read all the books related to etiquette.
Liu Xian, a native of Pei State, was worshiped by Confucian scholars, who also praised his knowledge and admired him very much.
When he was young, he was friendly to Ren Fang, a person from Le'an, and Ren Fang also respected him.
He was born as a son of the country at the beginning. He started his career and was invited by the imperial court. After a while, he moved to the royal palace and joined the army.
In the early years of Tianjian, Shao ordered the learned Confucian scholars to study and manage the Five Rites. The relevant officials recommended Sima Zhuang to study and manage Jiali, and he was appointed as a doctor of the Shangshu Temple.
At this time, the state established rituals and music, and most of what Sima Zhuang proposed was implemented.
He was appointed as an infantry school captain and concurrently as Zhongshu Tongshisheren.
Sima Zhuang's knowledge is especially proficient in the art of predicting the good and bad fortunes of people. The good and bad etiquette of the country. When the world's famous scholars, Shanbin, He Chang, etc. have questions and cannot make decisions, they all depend on him.
After being promoted to Zhengyuanlang, Zhennan consulted to join the army, and he continued to serve as a soldier.
Moved to the post of Minister Youcheng.
He served as the chief historian of Renwei and the internal history of Changsha.
After returning to the capital, he was awarded the title of General Yunqi and concurrently served as Yushi Zhongcheng. Soon the part-time job was changed to a full-time position.
In the 16th year, he served as the chief historian of Xuanyi Nankang King, the governor of the country and the stone garrison military.
Although Sima Zhuang was appointed as a foreign official, there was an edict asking him to participate in the Wende and Wude Halls to draw up the list of official officials, and to communicate with each other for advice without time limit.
In the seventeenth year, he was moved to the post of General Mingwei and King Changshi of Jin'an, and died soon after.
Yu Jianwu, the Mingji Office of the King of Jin'an, collected his articles and compiled them into ten volumes, and compiled "Jia Li Zhu" in 112 volumes.
Maoguan, whose name is Maoguan, is from Wuyuan, Pengcheng.
My great-grandfather came to Yanzhi and was a hussar general in the Song Dynasty.
When my grandfather went to Zhongdu, he served as a hussar to the king of Jiangxia and worked as a lieutenant.
My father came to Tan and served as Zhongshu Lang in the Qi Dynasty.
His father died when he was young, and his family was poor. He and his younger brother Daoqia were both smart and talented. They were appreciated by Ren Fang early on, and their reputation became even wider from then on.
He started out as the royal minister of the left side of the kingdom, then became military commander Cao Xing and joined the army, and successively served as the palace's lieutenant.
He served as the internal history of Jian'an and moved to the post of Zhongshu Lang and Libu Lang. He was the concubine among the princes.
When Xiao Yi, the king of eastern Hunan, was appointed as the prefect of Kuaiji, he was appointed as the chief historian of Qingchao and responsible for the affairs of the county.
Emperor Gaozu said to the king: Daoji is not only acting for you, he can also be your teacher. If you have any progress, you must consult him.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
遭母忧，居丧尽礼，朝廷嘉之。
服阕，犹蔬食布衣者累载。
除通直散骑常侍，御史中丞，太府卿，都官尚书，郢州长史、江夏太守，加招远将军，入为左民尚书。
溉身长八尺，美风仪，善容止，所莅以清白自修。
性又率俭，不好声色，虚室单床，傍无姬侍。自外车服，不事鲜华，冠履十年一易，朝服或至穿补，传呼清路，示有朝章而已。
顷之，坐事左迁金紫光禄大夫，俄授散骑常侍、侍中、国子祭酒。
溉素谨厚，特被高祖赏接，每与对棋，从夕达旦。
溉第山池有奇石，高祖戏与赌之，并《礼记》一部，溉并输焉，未进，高祖谓硃异曰； 卿谓到溉所输可以送未？
溉敛板对曰： 臣既事君，安敢失礼。
高祖大笑，其见亲爱如此。
后因疾失明，诏以金紫光禄大夫、散骑常侍，就第养疾。
溉家门雍睦，兄弟特相友爱。
初与弟洽常共居一斋，洽卒后，便舍为寺，因断腥膻，终身蔬食，别营小室，朝夕从僧徒礼诵。
高祖每月三致净馔，恩礼甚笃。
蒋山有延贤寺者，溉家世创立，故生平公俸，咸以供焉，略无所取。
性又不好交游，惟与硃异、刘之遴、张绾同志友密。
及卧疾家园，门可罗雀，三君每岁时常鸣驺枉道，以相存问，置酒叙生平，极欢而去。
临终，托张、刘勒子孙以薄葬之礼，卒时年七十二。
诏赠本官。
有集二十卷行于世。
时以溉、洽兄弟比之二陆，故世祖赠诗曰： 魏世重双丁，晋朝称二陆，何如今两到，复似凌寒竹。
子镜，字圆照，安西湘东王法曹行参军，太子舍人，早卒。
镜子荩，早聪慧，起家著作佐郎，历太子舍人，宣城王主簿，太子洗马，尚书殿中郎。
translation: 
When his mother died, he performed all the mourning rituals and was praised by the court.
After the period of mourning, he gave up his clothes and ate vegetables and wore common clothes for many years.
He was awarded Tongzhi Sanqi Changshi, Yushi Zhongcheng, Taifu Qing, Duguan Shangshu, Yingzhou Governor Shi, Jiangxia Shangshu, and was appointed General Zhaoyuan, and became Zuo Min Shangshu.
He is eight feet tall, has a beautiful demeanor, a kind appearance, and is clean and self-disciplined in all official positions he holds.
He is also very frugal by nature, not fond of sensuality, has only one bed in the empty house, has no concubines around him, wears clothes when traveling, and does not pursue flowers. He wears his crown and shoes every ten years, and his court uniforms even have patches. He shouts to make the road quiet, which only shows that he has court seals.
Soon after, he was demoted to the post of Jinzi Guanglu doctor due to being implicated. Soon after, he was appointed as a regular attendant of Sanqi, a minister in the middle, and a minister of the state.
He had always been a cautious and kind-hearted person until Gai, and he was especially appreciated and accepted by Emperor Gaozu. Every time he played chess with him, it was from midnight to dawn.
There was a strange stone in the mountain pool of Daoji Mansion. Gaozu made a joke with it and bet with it, and added a copy of "Book of Rites". Daoji also lost, but did not bring the gambling items. Gaozu said to Zhu Yi: "Can you tell Daoji if I can send you the things I lost?"
Daoji put away his hand and replied, "Since I serve the king, I dare not be rude."
Gaozu laughed when he heard this. He was loved like this.
Later, he became ill and lost his sight, so he was ordered to take up the post of Jin Ziguanglu doctor and Sanqi regular attendant to recuperate in the mansion.
The family members live in harmony, and the brothers are particularly friendly.
At first, he and his brother lived together in Qiaochang. After Qia died, he donated money to build a temple. From then on, he stopped eating meat and fish and ate vegetarian vegetables all his life. He also built a small room and worshiped and chanted sutras with the monks day and night.
Emperor Gaozu prepared three vegetarian dishes for him every month, which was a very generous gift to him.
There is Yanxian Temple in Jiangshan, which was founded by Mr. Dao Ji. Therefore, all his salary throughout his life was provided to the temple and he received nothing in return.
He was not easy to socialize with by nature, so he was only close friends with Zhu Yi, Liu Zhilin and Zhang Wanzhi.
When he was sick in his home, there were only a few people around. The three princes often made a detour to his house every year when traveling, greeted each other, drank wine and talked about their lives, and left happily.
When he was dying, his descendants who entrusted Zhang and Liu to control him buried him with frugal etiquette. He was seventy-two years old when he died.
An edict was issued to posthumously reward him as an official.
A collection of twenty volumes has been circulated in the world.
At that time, people compared Daoji and Daoqia, brothers and sisters of Erlu, so the ancestor Shizu's poem said: The Wei Dynasty respected Shuangding, and the Jin Dynasty praised Erlu. How can it be compared with Liangdao today, and it is like the green bamboo of Linghan.
Zijing, whose courtesy name was Yuanzhao, served as King Facao Xing of Xiangshu in Anxi and joined the army. The prince passed away long ago.
From Zijing to Gai, he was smart since he was a child. He started his career as a Zuo Lang, and successively served as the prince's minister, the chief secretary of the king of Xuancheng, the prince's horse washer, and the minister's palace minister.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
尝从高祖幸京口，登北顾楼赋诗，荩受诏便就，上览以示溉曰： 荩定是才子，翻恐卿从来文章假手于荩。
因赐溉《连珠》曰： 研磨墨以腾文，笔飞毫以书信。
如飞蛾之赴火，岂焚身之可吝。
必耄年其已及，可假之于少荩。
其见知赏如此。
除丹阳尹丞。
太清乱，赴江陵卒。
刘显，字嗣芳，沛国相人也。
父鬷，晋安内史。
显幼而聪敏，当世号曰神童。
天监初，举秀才，解褐中军临川王行参军，俄署法曹。
显好学，博涉多参通，任昉尝得一篇缺简书，文字零落，历示诸人，莫能识者，显云是《古文尚书》所删逸篇，昉检《周书》，果如其说，昉因大相赏异。
丁母忧，服阕，尚书令沈约命驾造焉，于坐策显经史十事，显对其九。
约曰： 老夫昏忘，不可受策；虽然，聊试数事，不可至十也。
显问其五，约对其二。
陆倕闻之叹曰： 刘郎可谓差人，虽吾家平原诣张壮武，王粲谒伯喈，必无此对。
其为名流推赏如此。
及约为太子少傅，乃引为五官掾，俄兼廷尉正。
五兵尚书傅昭掌著作，撰国史，引显为佐。
九年，始革尚书五都选，显以本官兼吏部郎，又除司空临川王外兵参军，迁尚书仪曹郎。
尝为《上朝诗》，沈约见而美之，时约郊居宅新成，因命工书人题之于壁。
出为临川王记室参军。
建康平，复入为尚书仪曹侍郎，兼中书通事舍人。
出为秣陵令，又除骠骑鄱阳王记室，兼中书舍人，累迁步兵校尉、中书侍郎，舍人如故。
显与河东裴子野、南阳刘之遴、吴郡顾协，连职禁中，递相师友，时人莫不慕之。
显博闻强记，过于裴、顾，时魏人献古器，有隐起字，无能识者，显案文读之，无有滞碍，考校年月，一字不差，高祖甚嘉焉。
迁尚书左丞，除国子博士。
出为宣远岳阳王长史，行府国事，未拜，迁云麾邵陵王长史、寻阳太守。
大同九年，王迁镇郢州，除平西谘议参军，加戎昭将军。
其年卒，时年六十三。
友人刘之遴启皇太子曰： 之遴尝闻，夷、叔、柳惠，不逢仲尼一言，则西山饿夫，东国黜士，名岂施于后世。
translation: 
I once followed my great ancestor Xing to visit Beijing and went to the northern tower to compose poems. When Gai received the imperial edict, he immediately wrote it. He read the poem to express his gratitude and said: Dao Qi must be a talented man. On the contrary, I am afraid that the articles you have always written are with the help of Gai's hand.
Therefore, "Lianzhu" was given to Daoji and said: Grind the ink and write the article, the pen will fly and write the letter.
Like a moth towards the flame, make a difference at the expense of sacrifice.
He must have reached old age and can rely on the young to reach Dong.
This is how he was praised and appreciated.
Awarded Danyang Yin Cheng.
During the Taiqing period, there was war and he died when he went to Jiangling.
Liu Xian, whose courtesy name was Sifang, was a native of Pei State.
His father, Liu Xu, served as the internal history of Jin'an.
Liu Xian was young and smart, and the world called him a child prodigy.
In the early years of Tianjian, he was selected as a scholar and served as an official in the Central Army Linchuan Wangxing to join the army. Soon he was appointed as a legal officer.
Liu Xian was eager to learn, and he was knowledgeable about many things. Ren Fang once obtained a fragmentary simplified book with the words falling off, and showed it to everyone many times, but no one knew about it. Liu Xian said that it was a deleted and lost article in the "Book of Classical Literature". Ren Fang reviewed the "Book of Zhou" and found that it was exactly what he said, so he praised it greatly.
When his mother was in mourning and the period of mourning was over, the minister ordered Shen Yue to drive to visit him and asked him ten questions from Sutra's History while sitting at the table. Su Tuan answered nine of them correctly.
Choosing the mat said: I am confused and forgetful, so I can no longer accept questions. Even so, let me try to ask a few things, but not more than ten.
Liu Xian asked five questions, and Shen Yue answered two correctly.
After hearing this, Lu Jia admired and said: Liu Lang can be called a special person. Even if my family Lu Ji went to Zhang Hua and Wang Canye met Cai Yong, there would be no such answer.
He was recommended by celebrities like this.
Shen Yue was appointed as the young master of the crown prince, so he was introduced to serve as the minister of five sense organs, and soon he was also appointed as the Tingweizheng.
Fu Zhao, the Minister of the Fifth Army, took charge of writing and compiling the history of the country, and introduced Liu Xian to assist him.
In the ninth year, the selection of the five capitals of Shangshu began to be changed. Liu Xian took the original position of concurrently serving as the Minister of Libu. He also granted King Sikong Linchuan to join the army as a foreign soldier and moved to the post of Shangshu Yi Caolang.
He once wrote "Poems of Shang Dynasty", which Shen Yue admired very much. At that time, Shen Yue built a new house in the suburbs, so he asked someone who was good at calligraphy to write this poem on the wall.
He served as the Prince of Linchuan and joined the army.
After Jiankang was pacified, he was once again appointed as the minister of Cao, the Minister of Yi, and concurrently as the general secretary of Zhongshu.
He was appointed as the Moling Commandery, and was given the title of Hussar Poyang Prince's Office. He also served as the Minister of Zhongshu. After repeated promotions, he was promoted to the rank of Infantry School Captain and the Assistant Minister of Zhongshu, but he remained the same.
Liu Xian, Pei Ziye from Hedong, Liu Zhilin from Nanyang, and Gu Xie from Wujun successively served in the palace and were each other's mentors and friends. People at that time envied them.
Liu Xian was better at learning and memorizing than Pei and Gu. At that time, people from the Northern Wei Dynasty presented ancient artifacts with hidden characters on them. No one could identify them. Liu Xian read the text according to the text, and it was very smooth. He examined the dates of the ancient artifacts and found them word for word. Emperor Gaozu highly praised him.
He was moved to the post of Minister Zuocheng and awarded the title of Doctor Guozi.
He was appointed as the chief historian of the Yueyang King in Xuanyuan and was responsible for the state affairs of the government. Before he could worship, he was moved to Yunhui as the chief historian of the Shaoling King and the prefect of Xunyang.
In the ninth year of Datong, King Shaoling guarded Yingzhou and granted Liu Xian the post of Pingxi Consultant to join the army. He was also granted the title of General Rong Zhao.
He died that year at the age of sixty-three.
Friend Liu Zhilin reported to the Crown Prince: Zhilin once heard that Boyi, Shuqi, and Liu Xiahui did not receive a word of praise from Confucius. They could only be starving people in Xishan and deposed by Shu State. How could their good names be passed down to future generations?


Chunk 3: 
original: 
信哉！
生有七尺之形，终为一棺之土。
不朽之事，寄之题目，怀珠抱玉，有殁世而名不称者，可为长太息，孰过于斯。
窃痛友人沛国刘显，韫椟艺文，研精覃奥，聪明特达，出类拔群。
阖棺郢都，归魂上国，卜宅有日，须镌墓板。
之遴已略撰其事行，今辄上呈。
伏愿鸿慈，降兹睿藻，荣其枯骴，以慰幽魂。
冒昧尘闻，战栗无地。
乃蒙令为志铭曰： 繁弱挺质，空桑吐声，分器见重，播乐传名。
谁其均之？
美有髦士。
礼著幼年，业明壮齿。
厌饫典坟，研精名理。
一见弗忘，过目则记。
若访贾逵，如问伯始。
颖脱斯出，学优而仕。
议狱既佐，芸兰乃握。
抟凤池水，推羊太学。
内参禁中，外相籓岳。
斜光已道，殒彼西浮；百川到海，还逐东流。
营营返魄，泛泛虚舟。
白马向郊，丹旒背巩。
野埃兴伏，山云轻重。
吕掩书坟，扬归玄冢。
尔其戒行，途穷土垄。
弱葛方施，丛柯日拱。
遂柳荑春，禽寒敛氄。
长空常暗，阴泉独涌。
祔彼故茔，流芬相踵。
显有三子：莠，荏，臻。
臻早著名。
刘之遴，字思贞，南阳涅阳人也。
父虬，齐国子博士，谥文范先生。
之遴八岁能属文，十五举茂才对策，沈约、任昉见而异之。
起家宁朔主簿。
吏部尚书王瞻尝候任昉，值之遴在坐，昉谓瞻曰： 此南阳刘之遴，学优未仕，水镜所宜甄擢。
瞻即辟为太学博士。
translation: 
Indeed it is!
He had a body seven feet long when he was born, and when he died he was buried in a coffin.
Immortal things can only be spread if they are written in articles. People who are talented and do not follow the crowd will die without being praised. We should sigh for such things. There is no more than this.
Privately, I grieve over the classics that my friend Pei Guoren has collected in a wooden cabinet. I have carefully studied its profoundness, making it extremely intelligent and outstanding.
The coffin was built in Yingdu and returned to the capital. The cemetery was selected and the burial date was set. It was necessary to carve a tombstone.
Zhiqiu has briefly written down his deeds and will submit them now.
I hope that the emperor can show him great kindness and write poems for him so that his withered bones can be glorified and comfort his ghost soul.
Presumptuous reporting, trembling with shame.
So he was ordered to write an epitaph for Liu Xian, saying: "Those who are complex and weak have beautiful qualities. The sound of playing mulberry trees in the sky is valued, and the playing of musical instruments is valued."
Who regulates it for him?
Beauty has talent.
Know etiquette in childhood, and achieve academic success in adulthood.
Read ancient texts and study theory intensively.
Never forget once you see it, never forget it when you look back.
Like visiting Jia Kui, like visiting Hu Guang.
Stand out, study well and become an official.
Assisting in prison discussions, he is a close official of the king.
Being employed in Zhongshu shows talent, and being in Taixue is predicted to be auspicious.
He participated in forbidden affairs in the palace inside and assisted the kings outside.
The sun was setting on the road, and he died in the west of his exile; hundreds of rivers merged into the sea, and he had to chase the water coming from the east.
Busy to return to the body, the light boat is floating.
The white horse used for the funeral was heading to the suburbs, and the funeral inscriptions had been sent from Gongdi.
The wild dust rises and falls, and the mountain clouds are light and thick.
Lu Buwei wrote a book to cover up all the books, and Yang Xiong returned to Xuanzang.
He abides by the sentiment of the precepts, and the road is exhausted and enters the ridge.
The tender kudzu grass has just been planted, and the clusters of cypress trees surround the sun.
The willow trees in the tomb passage sprout in spring, and the birds and animals gather their down in the cold weather.
The sky is always dark, and the underground springs are flowing alone.
They were buried together in the cemetery of their ancestors, and their good reputations continued to spread.
Liu Xian had three sons: Liu Chu, Liu Lin, and Liu Zhen.
Liu Zhen was famous in his early years.
Liu Zhilin, courtesy name Sizhen, was a native of Nieyang, Nanyang.
His father Liu Jiu was a doctor of Guozi in the Qi Dynasty, and his nickname was Mr. Wenfan.
Zhi Lin could write articles at the age of eight, and was amazed by the strategy of recruiting talented people at the age of fifteen.
When he started, he served as the chief bookkeeper of Ningshuo.
Wang Zhan, the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, once visited Ren Fang. Lin Fang happened to be sitting there. Ren Fang said to Wang Zhan: This is Liu Zhilin from Nanyang. He is an excellent scholar but has not yet become an official. People with good knowledge should select and promote him.
Wang Zhan immediately recruited him as a doctor of Taixue.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
时张稷新除尚书仆射，托昉为让表，昉令之遴代作，操笔立成。
昉曰： 荆南秀气，果有异才，后仕必当过仆。
御史中丞乐蔼，即之遴舅，宪台奏弹，皆之遴草焉。
迁平南行参军，尚书起部郎，延陵令，荆州治中。
太宗临荆州，仍迁宣惠记室。
之遴笃学明审，博览群籍。
时刘显、韦稜并强记，之遴每与讨论，咸不能过也。
还除通直散骑侍郎，兼中书通事舍人。
迁正员郎，尚书右丞，荆州大中正。
累迁中书侍郎，鸿胪卿，复兼中书舍人。
出为征西鄱阳王长史、南郡太守，高祖谓曰： 卿母年德并高，故令卿衣锦还乡，尽荣养之理。
后转为西中郎湘东王长史，太守如故。
初，之遴在荆府，尝寄居南郡廨，忽梦前太守袁彖谓曰： 卿后当为折臂太守，即居此中。
之遴后果损臂，遂临此郡。
丁母忧，服阕，征秘书监，领步兵校尉。
出为郢州行事，之遴意不愿出，固辞，高祖手敕曰： 朕闻妻子具，孝衰于亲；爵禄具，忠衰于君。
卿既内足，理忘奉公之节。
遂为有司所奏免。
久之，为太府卿，都官尚书，太常卿。
之遴好古爱奇，在荆州聚古器数十百种。
有一器似瓯，可容一斛，上有金错字，时人无能知者。
又献古器四种于东宫。
其第一种，镂铜鸱夷榼二枚，两耳有银镂，铭云 建平二年造 。
其第二种，金银错镂古樽二枚，有篆铭云 秦容成侯适楚之岁造 。
其第三种，外国澡灌一口，铭云 元封二年，龟兹国献 。
其第四种，古制澡盘一枚，铭云 初平二年造 。
translation: 
At that time, Zhang Jixin was appointed as Shangshu Pushe, and he was asked to write a memorial to resign from the official position. Ren Fangrang was selected to write it on his behalf, and the writing was completed.
Ren Fang said: "Jingnan is a beautiful place, and indeed there are talents. In the future, you will definitely surpass me as an official."
Yue Ai, the chief minister in the imperial censor, was the one who drafted his uncle Lin.
He moved to Pingnan and went to join the army. He was appointed Minister of the Ministry of Finance, Yanling Order, and Jingzhou was in charge.
Taizong was lucky enough to visit Jingzhou, so he moved him to the Xuanhui Ji Office.
Zhi Lin studied diligently and reviewed extensively, and was well-read.
At that time, both Liu Xian and Wei Ling had very strong memories, and whenever Zhi Lin discussed with them, they could not surpass Zhi Lin.
After returning to the capital, he was appointed Tongzhi Sanqi Shilang and Zhongshu Tongshisheren.
He was moved to the post of Zhengyuanlang, Shangshu Youcheng, and was appointed as Dazhongzheng.
After repeated promotions, he was promoted to the position of Vice Minister of Zhongshu, Qing of Honglu, and then Ren of Zhongshu.
When he was appointed as Changshi, King of Poyang in the West, and Grand Administrator of Nanjun, Gaozu said to him: Your mother is very old and virtuous, so I asked you to return to your hometown in fine clothes and fulfill your filial piety to support your mother.
Later he was transferred to Xizhonglang and Xiangshu Wang Changshi, and the prefect remained as before.
At the beginning, Zhi Lin was in the official residence of Jingzhou and stayed in the official residence of Nanjun. Suddenly he dreamed that the former prefect Yuan Yu said to him: From now on, you will be the prefect of Broken Arms and you will live here.
As expected, Zhi Lin later injured his arm and came to work in this county.
When his mother was in mourning, he was relieved of his duties at the end of the period of mourning and was recruited as secretary supervisor and captain of the infantry school.
When he was appointed to act in Yingzhou, Zhi Lin originally did not want to take up the post, so he resolutely declined. Emperor Gaozu himself wrote an edict saying: I heard that when my wife and son are together, my filial piety towards my relatives will diminish; when I have a title and salary, my loyalty to the monarch will diminish.
Now that your heart is satisfied, you should forget about the moral integrity of serving the public.
So a superior dismissed him from his post.
After a long time, he was appointed as Taifu Qing, Du Guan Shangshu, and Taichang Qing.
He loves ancient things and collects hundreds of kinds of ancient artifacts in Jingzhou.
There is an ancient utensil like an Ou, with a capacity of one dendrobium, and inlaid gold characters on it. People at the time did not know what it was.
He also presented four kinds of ancient utensils to the prince.
The first type is made of two bronze owl stakes, with carvings on both ears and silver inlays in the middle, with the inscription "Made in the second year of Jianping" engraved on them.
The second type is two ancient bottles inlaid with gold and silver, engraved with the seal inscription "Made by Marquis Rongcheng of Qin in the year of Chu."
The third type is a jar used by foreigners for washing, with the inscription "presented to the state of Qiuchi in the second year of Yuanfeng".
The fourth type is an ancient bath tray with the inscription "Made in the second year of Chuping".


Chunk 5: 
original: 
时鄱阳嗣王范得班固所上《汉书》真本，献之东宫，皇太子令之遴与张缵、到溉、陆襄等参校异同。
之遴具异状十事，其大略曰： 案古本《汉书》称 永平十六年五月二十一日己酉，郎班固上 ；而今本无上书年月日字。
又案古本《叙传》号为中篇；今本称为《叙传》。
又今本《叙传》载班彪事行；而古本云 稚生彪，自有传 。
又今本纪及表、志、列传不相合为次，而古本相合为次，总成三十八卷。又今本《外戚》在《西域》后；古本《外戚》次《帝纪》下。又今本《高五子》、《文三王》、《景十三王》、《武五子》、《宣元六王》杂在诸传秩中；古本诸王悉次《外戚》下，在《陈项传》前。又今本《韩彭英卢吴》述云 信惟饿隶，布实黥徒，越亦狗盗，芮尹江湖，云起龙骧，化为侯王 ；古本述云 淮阴毅毅，杖剑周章，邦之杰子，实惟彭、英，化为侯王，云起龙骧 。
又古本第三十七卷，解音释义，以助雅诂，而今本无此卷。
之遴好属文，多学古体，与河东裴子野、沛国刘显常共讨论书籍，因为交好。
是时《周易》、《尚书》、《礼记》、《毛诗》并有高祖义疏，惟《左氏传》尚阙。之遴乃著《春秋大意》十科，《左氏》十科，《三传同异》十科，合三十事以上之。
高祖大悦，诏答之曰： 省所撰《春秋》义，比事论书，辞微旨远。
编年之教，言阐义繁，丘明传洙泗之风，公羊禀西河之学，鐸椒之解不追，瑕丘之说无取。
继踵胡母，仲舒云盛，因修《谷梁》，千秋最笃。
张苍之传《左氏》，贾谊之袭荀卿，源本分镳，指归殊致，详略纷然，其来旧矣。
昔在弱年，乃经研味，一从遗置，迄将五纪。
兼晚冬晷促，机事罕暇，夜分求衣，未遑搜括。
须待夏景，试取推寻，若温故可求，别酬所问也。
translation: 
At that time, Xiao Fan, the successor king of Poyang, received the authentic version of "Deshu" submitted by Ban Gu and presented it to the crown prince. The crown prince asked him to check the similarities and differences between it and the current version with Zhang Lan, Dao Gai, Lu Xiang and others.
Zhi Ling listed ten differences, roughly speaking: Check the ancient version of "Han Shu" and record that on May 21st, the 21st day of the 16th year of Yongping, Lang Bangu came to the top, and the current version of the Wushang Book contains the date, month and year.
The ancient version of "Xu Zhuan" is also called the middle chapter, and the current version is called "Xu Zhuan".
Moreover, the modern version of "Xu Zhuan" records Ban Biao's deeds, while the ancient version says that Zhi Sheng Biao had his own biography, and the order of the modern version of "Xu Zhuan" and the records, chronicles, and biographies are inconsistent with each other.
The order of the ancient books is consistent with each other, totaling thirty-eight volumes. Moreover, the modern version of "Wai Qi" is ranked after "Western Regions", and the ancient version of "Wai Qi" is ranked after "Emperor Chronicles". In addition, the "Five Sons of Gao", "Three Kings of Wen", "Thirteen Kings of Jing", "Five Sons of Wu", and "Six Kings of Xuanyuan" in the modern version are mixed among the biographies. The ancient versions of the kings are all listed after "The Wife" and before the "Biography of Chen Xiang". Another modern version of "Han Peng Ying and Lu Wu" tells that the faithful are hungry slaves, but the cloth is full of tattooed disciples, and the Yue is also a dog thief.
There is also the thirty-seventh volume of the ancient version, which explains the sound and meaning to assist in exegesis, but this volume does not exist in the current version.
Zhi Lin likes to write articles and learns more about ancient writing. He discusses books with Pei Ziye from Hedong and Liu Xianchang from Peiguo, so they are friendly with each other.
At that time, "The Book of Changes", "Shangshu", "Book of Rites", and "Mao Shi" all contained Gaozu's righteousness and commentary, but "Zuo Shi Zhuan" was still missing. Therefore, Ling wrote ten sections of "Spring and Autumn Equality", ten sections of "Zuo Shi", and ten sections of "Three Biography of Similarities and Differences", which were combined into thirty chapters.
Emperor Gaozu Dayue replied to him in the edict: "The Spring and Autumn Annals written by Sheng Lan are a book that evaluates and discusses events. The words are subtle and have far-reaching meanings."
The style of the chronicle is clear and concise. Qiu Ming inherited the Confucian style of Zhu Si. Gongyang was endowed with the knowledge of divination merchants from Xihe. Duojiao's explanation is not worthy of it, and Xiaqiu Jianggong's explanation is not advisable.
Following the footsteps of Hu's mother, Dong Zhongshu reached his peak, and following "Gu Liang", Xiahou Qianqiu was the most loyal.
Zhang Cang spread the "Zuo Zhuan", and Mai Yi inherited Xun Qing. The origins are the same but the descendants went their separate ways, with different themes and different details. It has been a long time coming.
In the past, when I was young, I often studied the taste. Once I was sent away, it would be almost sixty years.
In addition, the light in late winter is short, and there is little free time to deal with matters. Sometimes I have to get up in the middle of the night, so I have no time to search.
I have to wait for the summer to try and make inferences. If I have a new explanation for the past, I will answer the questions again.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
太清二年，侯景乱，之遴避难还乡，未至，卒于夏口，时年七十二。
前后文集五十卷，行于世。
之亨字嘉会，之遴弟也。
少有令名。
举秀才，拜太学博士，稍迁兼中书通事舍人，步兵校尉，司农卿。
又代兄之遴为安西湘东王长史、南郡太守。
在郡有异绩。
数年卒于官，时年五十。
荆士至今怀之，不忍斥其名，号为 大南郡 、 小南郡 云。
许懋，字昭哲，高阳新城人，魏镇北将军允九世孙。
祖珪，宋给事中，著作郎，桂阳太守。
父勇惠，齐太子家令，冗从仆射。
懋少孤，性至孝，居父忧，执丧过礼。
笃志好学，为州党所称。
十四入太学，受《毛诗》，旦领师说，晚而覆讲，座下听者常数十百人，因撰《风雅比兴义》十五卷，盛行于世。
尤晓故事，称为仪注之学。
起家后军豫章王行参军，转法曹，举茂才，迁骠骑大将军仪同中记室。
文惠太子闻而召之，侍讲于崇明殿，除太子步兵校尉。
永元中，转散骑侍郎，兼国子博士。
与司马褧同志友善，仆射江祏甚推重之，号为 经史笥 。
天监初，吏部尚书范云举懋参详五礼，除征西鄱阳王谘议，兼著作郎，待诏文德省。
时有请封会稽禅国山者，高祖雅好礼，因集儒学之士，草封禅仪，将欲行焉。
懋以为不可，因建议曰：
臣案舜幸岱宗，是为巡狩，而郑引《孝经钩命决》云 封于泰山，考绩柴燎，禅乎梁甫，刻石纪号 。
此纬书之曲说，非正经之通义也。
translation: 
In the second year of Taiqing, Hou Jing rebelled, and Zhi Lin took refuge and returned to his hometown. Before arriving, he died in Xiakou at the age of seventy-two.
There are fifty volumes of collected works before and after, which have been circulated throughout the world.
Zhiheng, whose name is Jiahui, is Zhilin's younger brother.
He had a good reputation when he was young.
He was promoted to a scholar, awarded a doctorate from Imperial College, and later moved to serve concurrently as Zhongshu Tongshiren, Infantry Colonel, and Secretary of Agriculture.
He was appointed as the chief historian of Xiangshu King in Anxi and the prefect of Nanjun on behalf of his brother.
He has outstanding political achievements in the county.
He died in office a few years later at the age of fifty.
People in Jingdi still miss him and can't bear to call him by his name, so they call them Danan County and Xiaonan County.
Xu Mao, courtesy name Zhaozhe, was a native of Xincheng, Gaoyang, and the ninth grandson of Xu Yun, the general of Zhenbei in the Wei Dynasty.
My grandfather, Xu Gui, was a doctor in the Song Dynasty and was the governor of Guiyang.
His father, Xu Yonghui, served as the prince's family magistrate in the Qi Dynasty and served as a servant.
Xu Mao's father died when he was young, and he was extremely filial by nature. When mourning for his father, he went beyond common etiquette to observe filial piety.
He was dedicated and studious and was praised by his fellow villagers.
At the age of fourteen, he entered Taixue and studied "Mao Shi" from his teacher. He received the teacher's explanation in the morning and resumed the lecture in the evening. There were often hundreds of people listening to the lecture. Therefore, he compiled fifteen volumes of "Feng Ya Bi Xing Yi", which is widely known in the world.
He is especially knowledgeable about old things, which is called Yi Zhu Xue.
He started his career and served as the King of Yuzhang in the Hou Army. He joined the army, was transferred to Facao, promoted talented people, and moved to the General of Hussars Yitong Zhongjishi.
Prince Wenhui heard of his name and summoned him, asking him to serve as a lecturer in Chongming Hall and teach the prince an infantry captain.
During the Yongyuan period, he was transferred to serve as the minister of Sanqi and concurrently as a doctor of Guozi.
Being like-minded and friendly with Sima Zhuang, Pushe Jiang Zhe highly regarded him and called him "Jing Shi Jie".
In the early years of Tianjian, Fan Yun, the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, recommended Xu Mao to decide on the Five Rituals, and appointed him as a consultant to the king of Poyang in the west, and also as a doctor, and he was waiting for Shao Wende Province.
At that time, someone requested that an altar be built in Kuaiji to offer sacrifices to heaven and a foundation be built in Guoshan to offer sacrifices to the earth. Emperor Gaozu was good at etiquette, so he summoned Confucian scholars to draft the ceremony for the sealing ceremony, and the sealing ceremony was about to be held.
Xu Mao thought that this matter could not be carried out, so he suggested:
The purpose of the minister's investigation of Shun's visit to Daizong was to inspect the states and prefectures. Zheng Xuan cited the "Book of Filial Piety" and said that he sacrificed to heaven at Mount Tai, assessed the performance of officials, burned firewood to worship heaven, and sacrificed to land at Liangfu and carved stone marks.
This is a twist in Wei Shu, not the general meaning of the classics.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
依《白虎通》云， 封者，言附广也；禅者，言成功相传也 。
若以禅授为义，则禹不应传启至桀十七世也，汤又不应传外丙至纣三十七世也。
又《礼记》云： 三皇禅奕奕，谓盛德也。
五帝禅亭亭，特立独起于身也。
三王禅梁甫，连延不绝，父没子继也。
若谓 禅奕奕为盛德者，古义以伏羲、神农、黄帝，是为三皇。
伏羲封泰山，禅云云，黄帝封泰山，禅亭亭，皆不禅奕奕，而云盛德，则无所寄矣。
若谓五帝禅亭亭，特立独起于身者，颛顼封泰山，禅云云，帝喾封泰山，禅云云，尧封泰山，禅云云，舜封泰山，禅云云，亦不禅亭亭，若合黄帝以为五帝者，少昊即黄帝子，又非独立之义矣。
若谓三王禅梁甫，连延不绝，父没子继者，禹封泰山，禅云云，周成王封泰山，禅社首，旧书如此，异乎《礼说》，皆道听所得，失其本文。
假使三王皆封泰山禅梁甫者，是为封泰山则有传世之义，禅梁甫则有揖让之怀，或欲禅位，或欲传子，义既矛盾，理必不然。
又七十二君，夷吾所记，此中世数，裁可得二十余主：伏羲、神农、女娲、大庭、柏皇、中央、栗陆、骊连、赫胥、尊卢、混沌、昊英、有巢、硃襄、葛天、阴康、无怀、黄帝、少昊、颛顼、高辛、尧、舜、禹、汤、文、武，中间乃有共工，霸有九州，非帝之数，云何得有七十二君封禅之事？
且燧人以前至周之世，未有君臣，人心淳朴，不应金泥玉检，升中刻石。
燧人、伏羲、神农三皇结绳而治，书契未作，未应有镌文告成。
且无怀氏，伏羲后第十六主，云何得在伏羲前封泰山禅云云？
夷吾又曰： 惟受命之君然后得封禅。
周成王非受命君，云何而得封泰山禅社首？
神农与炎帝是一主，而云神农封泰山禅云云，炎帝封泰山禅云云，分为二人，妄亦甚矣！
若是圣主，不须封禅；若是凡主，不应封禅。
translation: 
According to "Bai Hu Tong", "Feng" is a sacrifice to bury the newly deceased with their ancestors; Zen means that success is passed down from generation to generation.
If it is explained by Zen teaching, then Yu should not have taught Qi to the seventeenth generation of Jie and perished, and Tang should not have taught Waibing to the thirty-seventh generation of Zhou and perished.
The "Book of Rites" also says: The three emperors worshiped the land at Yiyi Mountain, which was called Shengde.
The Five Emperors were worshiping at Tingting Mountain, and Teli stood up alone.
The three kings offered sacrifices to Liang Fu in order to prevent the succession from ending and the father to have no son to succeed him.
If worshiping at Yiyi Mountain is called Shengde, in ancient times Fuxi, Shennong and Huangdi were called the Three Emperors.
However, Fuxi worshiped heaven on Mount Tai, worshiped earth on Yunyun Mountain, Huangdi worshiped heaven on Mount Tai, and worshiped earth on Tingting Mountain. None of them worshiped earth on Mount Yiyi, so there is no basis for calling them virtues.
If the Five Emperors worshiped the earth in Tingting Mountain, they stood alone. However, Zhuanxu worshiped the heaven in Mount Tai and the earth in Yunyun Mountain. The imperial doctor worshiped the heaven in Mount Tai and the earth in Yunyun Mountain.
If the three kings worshiped the earth in Liangfu, it was for the sake of continuity and succession after the death of father and son. However, Yu worshiped the heaven in Mount Tai, the earth in Yunyun Mountain, and Yuting worshiped the heaven in Huashan. The old book records this sacrifice to the earth, which is different from the "Book of Rites". They are all obtained by listening to the way, and the original intention is lost.
If the three kings all worshiped heaven on Mount Tai and worshiped earth on Mount Liangfu, it would mean that offering sacrifices to heaven on Mount Tai had the meaning of passing down the world, and offering sacrifices to earth on Mount Liang had the ambition to abdicate as a sage, but either they wanted to be a Zen king or they wanted to pass on their son, and the two ideas were contradictory. This must not be the case.
There are also seventy-two monarchs, as recorded by Yiwu. Only in this number of generations can there be more than twenty names. They are: Fuxi, Shennong, Nuwa, Dating, Baihuang, Central, Lilu, Lilian, Hexu, Zunlu, Huanchao, Haoying, Youchao. , Zhu Xiang, Ge Tian, Yin Kang, Wu Huai, Huang Di, Shaohao, Zhuan Xu, Gao Xin, Yao, Shun, Yu, Tang, Wen, Wu, and Gonggong in the middle, who dominated the nine states, not counting the number of emperors, how can we say that seventy-two kings were granted Zen status?
Moreover, from the time of the Sui people to the Zhou Dynasty, there were no kings and ministers, and people's hearts were simple. There should be no letters to the heaven used in the Zen ceremony, or stone carvings for the completion of sacrifices to the heaven.
The three emperors Suiren, Fuxi, and Shennong governed the country by tying knots with ropes to record events. There was no writing, and there should be no written records to record successful events.
Moreover, Wuhuai was the sixteenth monarch after Fuxi. How could he be granted the title of Zen of Mount Tai before Fuxi?
Tai Zhi also said: Only the monarch who is appointed by heaven to create the world can be granted Zen status.
How could King Cheng of Zhou be named the head of the Taishan Zen Society if he was not an appointed monarch?
Shennong and Emperor Yan are one person, but it is too absurd to say that Shennong was granted the title of Zen on Mount Tai, and Emperor Yan was granted the title of Zen on Sanshan and Wu, and they were divided into two persons.
If it is a holy master, there is no need to be granted Zen status; if it is a mortal master, there is no need to be revered as a monk.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
当是齐桓欲行此事，管仲知其不可，故举怪物以屈之也。
秦始皇登泰山中坂，风雨暴至，休松树下，封为五大夫，而事不遂。
汉武帝宗信方士，广召儒生，皮弁搢绅，射牛行事，独与霍嬗俱上，既而子侯暴卒，厥足用伤。
至魏明，使高堂隆撰其礼仪，闻隆没，叹息曰： 天不欲成吾事，高生舍我亡也。
晋武泰始中欲封禅，乃至太康议犹不定，意不果行。
孙皓遣兼司空董朝、兼太常周处至阳羡封禅国山。此朝君子，有何功德？
不思古道而欲封禅，皆是主好名于上，臣阿旨于下也。
夫封禅者，不出正经，惟《左传》说 禹会诸侯于涂山，执玉帛者万国 ，亦不谓为封禅。
郑玄有参、柴之风，不能推寻正经，专信纬候之书，斯为谬矣。
盖《礼》云 因天事天，因地事地，因名山升中于天，因吉土享帝于郊 。
燔柴岱宗，即因山之谓矣。故《曲礼》云 天子祭天地 是也。
又祈谷一，报谷一，礼乃不显祈报地，推文则有。
《乐记》云： 大乐与天地同和，大礼与天地同节；和故百物不失，节故祀天祭地。
百物不失者，天生之，地养之。故知地亦有祈报，是则一年三郊天，三祭地。
《周官》有员丘方泽者，总为三事，郊祭天地。
translation: 
At that time, the deputy wanted to do this, but knowing that it was not feasible, he cited strange things to stop him.
When Qin Shihuang climbed Mount Tai, there was a storm on the hillside. He rested under a pine tree and named the pine tree the fifth official, but did not climb to the top of the mountain.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty believed in alchemists, summoned Confucian scholars, crowned scholar-bureaucrats, and shot oxen as sacrifices to heaven and earth. He and Huo Shan went to Taichen alone. Soon after, Huo Shan died violently, which made him sad.
In the Wei and Ming Dynasties, Gao Tanglong, the envoy of Tongzhi, drafted the ceremony of enfeoffment. When he heard that Zhipan was dead, he sighed and said: God does not want me to succeed, and Gao Sheng will die without me.
During the year, he wanted to become a Zen monk, but the discussion during the year was still uncertain, and it was ultimately not implemented.
Sun Hao sent Sikong and Taichang Qiechen to Huixi Mountain in Dongfeng District. What merits do these kings have?
If you don't think about the ancient ways but want to be granted a title, it's all because the monarch above has a good reputation, and the ministers below will welcome the decree.
There is no record of Feng Dan in the canon. Only "Zuo Zhuan" says that there was a gathering of princes in Tushan, and there were people from all over the world holding jade and silk, and it was not called Feng Chan.
Zheng Xuan was as stupid as Zeng Shen and Gao Ji. He was unable to study serious scriptures and only believed in Weihou's book. This is ridiculous.
"Book of Rites": Because the celestial body is high, sacrifices are made to the sky at a high place, and the earth is humble, so sacrifices are made to the earth in a humble place. The sacrifice to the sky is successful in a famous mountain, and because the auspicious soil is divined, the emperor of the five directions is sacrificed in the suburbs.
In Daizong, sacrifices were burned with firewood to offer sacrifices to heaven, which is what is called Yinshan offering sacrifices to heaven and earth. Therefore, "Quli" says: The emperor sacrifices to heaven and earth.
There is also a sacrifice to pray to the sky for the ripeness of grains, a sacrifice to report that the grains are ripe, and a sacrifice to pray to the earth to report the harvest. There is still some literary meaning.
"Le Ji" says: Great music is in harmony with heaven and earth, and great rituals are in harmony with heaven and earth. In harmony, everything is preserved, and in harmony, sacrifices are made to heaven and earth.
The reason why all things are not lost is that they are born and the earth nourishes them. Therefore, we know that there are also sacrifices to the earth to pray for retribution. In this way, we offer sacrifices to heaven three times a year and to earth three times a year.
According to "Zhou Guan", Qiu Fangze, a member of the Zhou Dynasty, performed sacrifices for three things, offering sacrifices to heaven and earth in the suburbs. Therefore, "Xiao Zongbo" said: Set up altars in the four suburbs to worship the five heavenly emperors.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
《大宗伯》 国有大故则旅上帝 ，《月令》云 仲春玄鸟至，祀于高禖 ，亦非常祭。故《诗》云 克禋克祀，以弗无子 。
并有雩祷，亦非常祭。《礼》云 雩，頠水旱也 。
是为合郊天地有三，特郊天有九，非常祀又有三。
《孝经》云： 宗祀文王于明堂，以配上帝。
雩祭与明堂虽是祭天，而不在郊，是为天祀有十六，地祭有三，惟大禘祀不在此数。
《大传》云： 王者禘其祖之所自出，以其祖配之。
异于常祭，以故云大于时祭。
案《系辞》云： 《易》之为书也，广大悉备。
有天道焉，有地道焉，有人道焉，兼三才而两之，故六。
六者非佗，三才之道也。
《乾·彖》云： 大哉乾元，万物资始，乃统天。
云行雨施，品物流形，大明终始，六位时成。
此则应六年一祭，坤元亦尔。
诚敬之道，尽此而备。
至于封禅，非所敢闻。
高祖嘉纳之，因推演懋议，称制旨以答，请者由是遂停。十年，转太子家令。
宋、齐旧仪，郊天祀帝，皆用衮冕，至天监七年，懋始请造大裘。
至是，有事于明堂，仪注犹云 服衮冕 。
懋駮云： 《礼》云 大裘而冕，祀昊天上帝亦如之。 良由天神尊远，须贵诚质。
今泛祭五帝，理不容文。
改服大裘，自此始也。
又降敕问： 凡求阴阳，应各从其类，今雩祭燔柴，以火祈水，意以为疑。
懋答曰： 雩祭燔柴，经无其文，良由先儒不思故也。
按周宣《云汉》之诗曰： 上下奠瘗，靡神不宗。 毛注云： 上祭天，下祭地，奠其币，瘗其物。 以此而言，为旱而祭天地，并有瘗埋之文，不见有燔柴之说。
若以祭五帝必应燔柴者，今明常之礼，又无其事。
且《礼》又云 埋少牢以祭时 ，时之功是五帝，此又是不用柴之证矣。
昔雩坛在南方正阳位，有乖求神；而已移于东，实柴之礼犹未革。
请停用柴，其牲牢等物，悉从坎瘗，以符周宣《云汉》之说。
诏并从之。
凡诸礼仪，多所刊正。
translation: 
These are the Nine Sacrifice, and they also have a canonical meaning. As for holding the Dalu Festival in the southern suburbs, it is not a regular sacrifice. "Da Zongbo" said that when there are important national events, the Dalu Festival is held to worship God. "Yue Ling" says that in the second month of spring, when the swallows arrive, worshiping the Plum God is not a regular sacrifice. Therefore, "Poetry" says that worshiping the sky in the suburbs and saluting in front of the Plum God are intended to eliminate the bad luck of not having a son.
There is also the Umbrella sacrifice to pray for rain, which is not a regular sacrifice. "Li" says that the Umbrella sacrifice can eliminate floods and droughts.
This means that there are three general sacrifices to heaven and earth, nine special sacrifices to heaven, and three extraordinary sacrifices.
"The Classic of Filial Piety" says: We offer sacrifices to King Wen in Mingtang Temple because he is worthy of enjoying God.
Although the Yu Mingtang temple sacrifices offer sacrifices to heaven, they are not located in the countryside. There are sixteen sacrifices to heaven and three to earth. Only the large Qiang sacrificial vessel is not placed here.
"Da Zhuan" says: The king's ancestral temple offers great sacrifices to his ancestors, and his ancestors are worthy of heaven.
This is different from regular sacrifices, so it is said to be greater than seasonal sacrifices.
"Cha Kao Xi Ci" says: "The Book of Changes" has profound and complete content.
There is the Way of Heaven, there is the Way of Earth, and there is the Way of Man. These three talents are combined and repeated, so it becomes the Six Yao.
The Six Yao is nothing but the Way of the Three Talents.
"Qian Tu" says: Sheng is the vitality of heaven, all things are born from it, and it belongs to heaven.
Qian can use the virtues of heaven and earth to make the clouds flow, the rain spread, the types of things change and take shape, the sun and the moon always shine, and the directions above and below are formed.
The cultivation process should be to offer sacrifices to heaven every six years, and the same is true for earthly virtue.
The principles of sincerity and respect are all present in Wei.
As for Feng Chan, I don’t dare to hear about it.
Xu Mao accepted his opinion, so he deduced Xu Mao's meaning and said that the emperor issued an order to answer those who asked for the title, and these people stopped asking. Ten years later, he was transferred to the prince's family order.
In the old etiquette of the Song and Qi dynasties, people wearing dragon-embroidered dresses and hats were required to worship heaven and the emperor. In the seventh year of Tianjian, Dong Luan was the first to propose that black lambskin clothing should be worn to worship heaven.
But now, when there are sacrifices in Mingtang, Yi Zhu still persuades Gun Mian.
Xu Mao retorted: "Book of Rites" says that wearing a fur coat and wearing a crown is the same as worshiping heaven and God. It is true that God is noble and fast, and we must be loyal and simple to him.
Today’s pan-sacrifice to the Five Emperors shouldn’t be as written.
This is where priests began to wear fur coats.
The emperor then issued an edict and asked: Anyone who uses yin and yang to explain the transformation of all things should follow its category. Nowadays, wood is burned during sacrifices and fire is used to pray for water. I have questions about this.
Xu Mao replied: There is no record in the scriptures about the burning of firewood as a sacrifice. It is true that the Confucian scholars said this without thinking.
A study of King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty's "Yunhan Poems" said: Offering sacrifices to heaven and earth, setting up wine and food underground, burying jade pieces in the earth, there is no Shinto who does not respect it. Mao Gong's annotation explains: Offering sacrifices to the sky above, offering sacrifices to the earth below, setting up currency on the ground, and burying the sacrifices. According to this statement, the heaven and earth were sacrificed for drought, and there are words about burying the sacrifices, but there is no mention of burning firewood.
If it is said that burning firewood is necessary to offer sacrifices to the Five Emperors, there is no such thing as burning firewood in the etiquette of today's Mingtang sacrifices.
Moreover, the "Book of Rites" also says that when burying sheep and pigs as sacrifices, the merits of the four seasons are those of the Five Emperors. This is another evidence that burnt wood is not used for sacrifices.
In the past, the altar for praying to gods was set up in the Zhengyang position in the south, which was inappropriate for praying to God. Now it has been moved to the east, but the etiquette of burning firewood has not been changed.
When asking for sacrifice, stop burning firewood, and bury all the animals and other objects used in the sacrifice in the pit. This is in line with what King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty said in "Poetry of Yunhan".
Xia Shaoquan listened to his advice.
He corrected many errors in all kinds of rituals.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
以足疾出为始平太守，政有能名。
加散骑常侍，转天门太守。
中大通三年，皇太子召诸儒参录《长春义记》。
四年，拜中庶子。
是岁卒，时年六十九。
撰《述行记》四卷，有集十五卷。
陈吏部尚书姚察曰：司马褧儒术博通，到溉文义优敏，显、懋、之遴强学浃洽，并职经便繁，应对左右，斯盖严、硃之任焉。
而溉、之遴遂至显贵，亟拾青紫；然非遇时，焉能致此仕也。
translation: 
He was appointed as the prefect of Shiping due to a foot disease, and he had a reputation for being able to govern.
He was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi and was transferred to the post of governor of Yumen.
In the third year of Zhongdatong, the crown prince summoned all the Confucian scholars to record the "Changchun Yiji".
In four years, he was appointed as a concubine.
He died that year at the age of sixty-nine.
He wrote four volumes of "Shu Xing Ji" and fifteen volumes of collected works.
Yao Cha, the Minister of Civil Affairs of the Chen Dynasty, said: Sima Xian was well versed in Confucianism and the content of his articles was well understood. Liu Xian, Xu Mao, and Zhilin were diligent in their studies and could understand everything. Although their positions were low, they were familiar with many things. They were responsible for the emperor's dealings. These were the duties of people like Yan Zhu and Zhu Bo.
And when they arrived, they were quickly selected to be nobles and put on official uniforms immediately. But if they didn't meet the opportunity, how could they get such official positions.


