Chunk 0: 
original: 
孔休源江革孔休源，字庆绪，会稽山阴人也。
晋丹阳太守冲之八世孙。
曾祖遥之，宋尚书水部郎。
父珮，齐庐陵王记室参军，早卒。
休源年十一而孤，居丧尽礼，每见父手所写书，必哀恸流涕，不能自胜，见者莫不为之垂泣。
后就吴兴沈驎士受经，略通大义。
建武四年，州举秀才，太尉徐孝嗣省其策，深善之，谓同坐曰： 董仲舒、华令思何以尚此，可谓后生之准也。
观其此对，足称王佐之才。
琅邪王融雅相友善，乃荐之于司徒竟陵王，为西邸学士。
梁台建，与南阳刘之遴同为太学博士，当时以为美选。
休源初到京，寓于宗人少府卿孔登宅，曾以祠事入庙，侍中范云一与相遇，深加褒赏，曰： 不期忽觏清颜，顿袪鄙吝，观天披雾，验之今日。
后云命驾到少府门，登便拂筵整带，谓当诣己，既而独造休源，高谈尽日，同载还家，登深以为愧。
尚书令沈约当朝贵显，轩盖盈门，休源或时后来，必虚襟引接，处之坐右，商略文义。
其为通人所推如此。
俄除临川王府行参军。
高祖尝问吏部尚书徐勉曰： 今帝业初基，须一人有学艺解朝仪者，为尚书仪曹郎。
为朕思之，谁堪其选？
勉对曰： 孔休源识具清通，谙练故实，自晋、宋《起居注》诵略上口。
高祖亦素闻之，即日除兼尚书仪曹郎中。
是时多所改作，每逮访前事，休源即以所诵记随机断决，曾无疑滞。
吏部郎任昉常谓之为 孔独诵 。
迁建康狱正，及辨讼折狱，时罕冤人。
后有选人为狱司者，高祖尚引休源以励之。
除中书舍人，司徒临川王府记室参军，迁尚书左丞，弹肃礼闱，雅允朝望。
时太子詹事周舍撰《礼疑义》，自汉魏至于齐梁，并皆搜采，休源所有奏议，咸预编录。
translation: 
Kong Xiuyuan, courtesy name Qingxu, was a native of Shanyin, Kuaiji.
The eighth grandson of Kong Chong, the prefect of Danyang in Jin Dynasty.
His great-grandfather Kong Yaozhi served as Minister of the Ministry of Water of the Song Dynasty.
His father, Wang Er, died early when he was appointed to Chalu and fell into the Wangji family to join the army.
Xiuyuan lost his father when he was eleven years old. The mourning period was completely in accordance with etiquette. Every time he saw his father's handwriting, he would burst into tears and couldn't help himself. Everyone who saw it would not shed tears for him.
Later, he went to Wuxing to study under Xuan Diezao, and he was familiar with the principles of Confucian classics.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, the prefecture held a ceremony for scholars. Taiwei Tu Cunqi read his policies and articles and admired them very much. He said to the people sitting with him: "Why are Dong Zhongshu and Hua Lingsi better than him? They can be called models for future generations."
Looking at his policy article, it can be said that he has the talent of a king.
Wang Rong, a native of Longxie, was very friendly with him, so he recommended Kong Shunuo to King Situ Jingling as a bachelor of Xili.
The chisel sculpture was built, and Lu Li and the humanoid master were both doctors of Taixue. People at the time thought it was a beauty.
Xiuyuan came to Beijing for the first time and stayed in the house of Kong Deng, the minister of the clan's Shaofu. He once went to the temple for sacrifices. Fan Yun, the attendant, met him for the first time and praised him very much. He said: "I met you unexpectedly, and my stingy heart disappeared. Unexpectedly, I parted the clouds and saw the blue sky today."
Later in the day, he drove to the Shaofu Gate. Renzhao prepared the banquet, thinking that he must be visiting him. However, he visited Xiuyuan alone, talked for the whole day, and drove back together. Kong Deng felt deeply ashamed.
Shangshu ordered Shen Yue to be a noble person in the court, and the door was full of carriages and horses. Xiu Yuan would arrive later, and he would receive him humbly and let him sit on the right side to discuss literature and meaning.
He was held in high esteem by learned men as such.
Soon he was granted the title of Prince of Linchuan to join the army.
Xu Mian, the Minister of Civil Affairs during the Great Ancestor's reign: Now that the emperor's career has been decided, he needs someone who is knowledgeable and understands the etiquette of the court to be appointed as Minister Cao Lang.
Think about me, who can do the job.
Xu Mian replied: Kong Xiuyuan has clear knowledge and is familiar with the past. He is familiar with the "Daily Notes" of the Jin Dynasty and Song Dynasty.
Emperor Gaozu had always heard about it, so he was awarded the title of Doctor Cao, who was also the Minister of Book Yi.
At that time, there were many changes in the court rituals. Whenever he was asked about the past, Xiuyuan immediately made random decisions based on his memory without hesitation.
Renfang, the official of the official department, often called him "Kong Dusong".
He moved to Kangyuanzheng, where he tried cases and seldom wronged anyone.
Later, some people were selected to serve as prison chiefs, and Emperor Gaozu encouraged them by citing Xiu Yuan's deeds.
He was granted the title of Zhongshu Sheren, and Situ joined the army in the palace's record office. He moved to Zuocheng, Shangshu, and rectified the Shangshu Province, living up to the expectations of the court.
At that time, Prince Zhan Shizhou She compiled "The Book of Rites", which included relevant historical materials from Han and Wei to Qi and Liang, and all Xiuyuan's memorials were selected for inclusion.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
除给事黄门侍郎，迁长兼御史中丞，正色直绳，无所回避，百僚莫不惮之。
除少府卿，又兼行丹阳尹事。
出为宣惠晋安王府长史、南郡太守、行荆州府州事。
高祖谓之曰： 荆州总上流冲要，义高分陕，今以十岁儿委卿，善匡翼之，勿惮周昌之举也。
对曰： 臣以庸鄙，曲荷恩遇，方揣丹诚，效其一割。
上善其对，乃敕晋安王曰： 孔休源人伦仪表，汝年尚幼，当每事师之。
寻而始兴王嶦代镇荆州，复为憺府长史，南郡太守、行府州事如故。
在州累政，甚有治绩，平心决断，请托不行。
高祖深嘉之。
除通直散骑常侍，领羽林监，转秘书监，迁明威将军，复为晋安王府长史、南兰陵太守，别敕专行南徐州事。
休源累佐名籓，甚得民誉，王深相倚仗，军民机务，动止询谋。
常于中斋别施一榻，云 此是孔长史坐 ，人莫得预焉。
其见敬如此。
征为太府卿，俄授都官尚书，顷之，领太子中庶子。
普通七年，扬州刺史临川王宏薨，高祖与群臣议代王居州任者久之，于时贵戚王公，咸望迁授，高祖曰： 朕已得人。
孔休源才识通敏，实应此选。
乃授宣惠将军、监扬州。
休源初为临川王行佐，及王薨而管州任，时论荣之。
而神州都会，簿领殷繁，休源割断如流，傍无私谒。
中大通二年，加授金紫光禄大夫，监扬州如故。
累表陈让，优诏不许。
在州昼决辞讼，夜览坟籍。
每车驾巡幸，常以军国事委之。
昭明太子薨，有敕夜召休源入宴居殿，与群公参定谋议，立晋安王纲为皇太子。
四年，遘疾，高祖遣中使候问，并给医药，日有十数。
translation: 
He was awarded the title of Shilang of Huangmen, moved to the position of chief and censor Zhongcheng. He enforced the law strictly, without any evasion, and all officials were afraid of him.
He was awarded the title of Shaofu Qing, and also acted as Danyang Yin.
He served as the chief historian of Xuanhui Jin'an Palace, the prefect of Nanjun, and was responsible for the state affairs of Jingzhou Prefecture.
Emperor Gaozu said to him: Jingzhou is located in an important place on the upper reaches of the Yangtze River. It is more important than the Duke of Zhou and Duke Zhao of the Zhou Dynasty in governing Shaanxi. I entrust my ten-year-old son to you now. I hope that I can assist you with all my heart. Don't be afraid of becoming Zhou Chang of the Western Han Dynasty.
Xiuyuan replied: I am so mediocre, but I have been treated so favorably, and I want to do my best.
Emperor Gaozu praised his answer and ordered King Jin'an: Kong Xiuyuan is a role model for people. You are still young and should ask him for advice on everything.
Not long after, Xiao Dan, the king of Shixing, took charge of Jingzhou, and Kong Xiuyuan was appointed as the chief historian of Xiao Qi Mansion. The affairs of the Nanjun Prefecture and Xingfu Prefecture continued as before.
He has served in the state for many years, has great political achievements, is fair in dealing with things, and has a bad habit of asking for favors.
Gao Zu highly praised him.
He was awarded the title of Standing Attendant of Tongzhi Sanqi, led Yulin Supervisor, was transferred to Secretary Supervisor, moved to the post of General Mingwei, and was appointed Chief Historian of Jin'an Palace and Grand Administrator of Nanlanling. He was also ordered to specialize in the affairs of Southern Xuzhou.
Xiuyuan assisted famous vassal kings many times and was highly praised by the people. King Jin'an relied heavily on him and consulted him on all matters concerning the army and the people.
He often set up another couch in Zhongzhai and said, "This is the special seat of Confucius, and no one else is allowed to sit there."
He was respected as such.
After entering the imperial court, he was appointed as Taifu Qing. He was soon granted the title of Minister of the Capital, and soon became the crown prince's concubine.
In the seventh year of the ordinary year, Wang Hong of Linchuan, the governor of Yangzhou, passed away. Emperor Gaozu discussed with his officials to replace the king with someone who had been the governor of the state for a long time. At that time, all the nobles and princes wanted to transfer the post to him. Emperor Gaozu said: "I have got the person."
Kong Tiyuan is talented and knowledgeable, so he should be appointed to this position.
He was given the title of General Xuanhui and the governor of Yangzhou.
Xiuyuan first served as the assistant to the king of Linchuan. When the king died, he took up this position. Current commentators considered it very honorable.
Yangzhou is a big city in the Central Plains, with complicated affairs. Xiuyuan is decisive in doing things, so the wind of entrustment suddenly subsides.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was awarded the title of Doctor Jin Ziguanglu, and his supervision of Yangzhou continued as before.
He submitted his resignation many times, but the imperial edict did not allow it.
In the state, he solved cases during the day and read ancient books at night.
Whenever the emperor went on an inspection tour, he often entrusted the general with important affairs of the country.
When Prince Zhaoming passed away, he was ordered to summon Xiuyuan to the banquet hall that night. After discussion with the public, Xiao Gang, the king of Jin'an, was appointed crown prince.
In the fourth year, when he fell ill, Emperor Gaozu sent envoys to greet him and doctors to deliver medicine, as many as ten times a day.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
其年五月，卒，时年六十四。
遗令薄葬，节朔荐蔬菲而已。
高祖为之流涕，顾谓谢举曰： 孔休源奉职清忠，当官正直，方欲共康治道，以隆王化。
奄至殒殁，朕甚痛之。
举曰： 此人清介强直，当今罕有，微臣窃为陛下惜之。
诏曰： 慎终追远，历代通规；褒德畴庸，先王令典。
宣惠将军、金紫光禄大夫、监扬州孔休源，风业贞正，雅量冲邈，升荣建礼，誉重搢绅。
理务神州，化覃歌咏，方兴仁寿，穆是伦。
奄然永逝，倍用悲恻。可赠散骑常侍、金紫光禄大夫，赙第一材一具，布五十匹，钱五万，蜡二百斤。
克日举哀。
丧事所须，随由资给。
谥曰贞子。
皇太子手令曰： 金紫光禄大夫孔休源，立身中正，行己清恪。
昔岁西浮渚宫，东泊枌壤，毘佐蕃政，实尽厥诚。
安国之详审，公仪之廉白，无以过之。
奄至殒丧，情用恻怛。
今须举哀，外可备礼。
休源少孤，立志操，风范强正，明练治体。持身俭约，学穷文艺，当官理务，不惮强御，常以天下为己任。
高祖深委仗之。累居显职，纤毫无犯。
性慎密，寡嗜好。
出入帷幄，未尝言禁中事，世以此重之。
聚书盈七千卷，手自校治，凡奏议弹文，勒成十五卷。
长子云童，颇有父风，而笃信佛理，遍持经戒。
官至岳阳王府谘议、东扬州别驾。
少子宗轨，聪敏有识度，历尚书都官郎，司徒左西掾，中书郎。
江革，字休映，济阳考城人也。
祖齐之，宋尚书金部郎。
父柔之，齐尚书仓部郎，有孝行，以母忧毁卒。
革幼而聪敏，早有才思，六岁便解属文。柔之深加赏器，曰： 此儿必兴吾门。
九岁丁父艰，与弟观同生孤贫，傍无师友，兄弟自相训勖，读书精力不倦。
十六丧母，以孝闻。
translation: 
He died in May of that year at the age of sixty-four.
Shu Xun was buried sparingly, and only vegetables were offered when visiting the tomb during festivals and festivals.
Shengdan shed tears for this, looked back at Yingken and said: Kong Bixun was loyal and honest in his official duties. I wanted to work with him to establish peace and become a prosperous king.
I am deeply saddened by his sudden death.
Xie Ju said: "This man is clear and upright, which is rare nowadays. I feel sorry for your majesty."
Shaoling said: It is the rule of the past dynasties to perform funeral rituals and commemorate the ancestors; it is the order of the past kings to praise and reward those who have made meritorious services.
General Xuanhui, Doctor Jin Ziguanglu, and Zhao Kongxiuyuan, the eunuch, were chaste and generous in character. They were honored as ministers and were well-known among the gentry.
It is common sense to govern China and be praised by others, and benevolent people live longer.
He passed away suddenly and was deeply saddened. He could be given as a posthumous gift to him as a regular attendant, Jin Ziguanglu, the first house in the house, a coffin, fifty pieces of cloth, fifty thousand yuan, and two hundred catties of wax.
Appoint a date for the funeral.
Necessities for funerals will be provided as needed.
Mi is the king of Zhen.
The Crown Prince's order said: Kong Xiusun, the doctor of Jin Ziguanglu, is upright, honest and prudent.
He went west to Zhu Palace, and went east to act as the emperor, assisting the vassal king and showing his loyalty.
Li Gu's detailed examination and Zhang Fan's integrity are incomparable.
Suddenly I felt sad and mournful.
Please be respectful in today's funeral.
Xiuyuan lost his father when he was young. He was independent-minded, upright, familiar with politics, frugal and knowledgeable. He was an official and a director. He was not afraid of power. He always took the world as his own responsibility and had great trust in him.
He has held many important positions and has done nothing wrong.
He has a cautious temperament and has few hobbies.
When entering and leaving the palace, he did not talk about the affairs of the palace, and the world respected him more.
He has a collection of more than 7,000 volumes, which he personally collated and compiled, and his impeachment proceedings were compiled into fifteen volumes.
The eldest son's name is Yuntong. He is very fatherly. He believes in Buddhism and upholds sutras and precepts.
The official went to Yueyang Prince's Mansion for consultation and left Dongyangzhou.
The younger son was named Zonggui, who was smart and knowledgeable. He served successively as Shangshu Duguanlang, Situ Zuoxipu, and Zhongshulang.
Jiang Ge, whose courtesy name was Xiuying, was from Kaocheng, Jiyang.
His grandfather's name was Zhazhi, and he served as Shangshu Jinbulang in the Song Dynasty.
His father's name was Rouzhi. He served as Shangshu Cangbu Lang in the Qi Dynasty. He served his parents with the utmost filial piety. He died in grief because of his mother's death.
Jiang Ge was young and smart. He had talent early on and could write articles at the age of six. His father admired him very much and once said: This son will definitely make a difference in our family.
His father died when he was nine years old, and his younger brother Jiang Guan was a twin. Because he was an orphan and a poor boy, he had no teachers or friends, so the brothers encouraged each other and were tireless in studying.
His mother died at the age of sixteen and he was famous for his filial piety.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
服阕，与观俱诣太学，补国子生，举高第。
齐中书郎王融、吏部谢朓雅相钦重。
朓尝宿卫，还过候革，时大雪，见革弊絮单席，而耽学不倦，嗟叹久之，乃脱所著襦，并手割半氈与革充卧具而去。
司徒竟陵王闻其名，引为西邸学士。
弱冠举南徐州秀才。
时豫章胡谐之行州事，王融与谐之书，令荐革。
谐之方贡琅邪王泛，便以革代之。
解褐奉朝请。
仆射江祏深相引接，祏为太子詹事，启革为府丞。
祏时权倾朝右，以革才堪经国，令参掌机务，诏诰文檄，皆委以具。
革防杜形迹，外人不知。
祏诛，宾客皆罹其罪，革独以智免。
除尚书驾部郎。
中兴元年，高祖入石头，时吴兴太守袁昂据郡距义师，乃使革制书与昂，于坐立成，辞义典雅，高祖深赏叹之，因令与徐勉同掌书记。
建安王为雍州刺史，表求管记，以革为征北记室参军，带中庐令。
与弟观少长共居，不忍离别，苦求同行，乃以观为征北行参军，兼记室。
时吴兴沈约、乐安任昉，并相赏重，昉与革书云： 此段雍府妙选英才，文房之职，总卿昆季，可谓驭二龙于长途，骋骐骥于千里。
途次江夏，观遇疾卒。
革时在雍，为府王所礼，款若布衣。
王被征为丹阳尹，以革为记室，领五官掾，除通直散骑常侍，建康正。
频迁秣陵、建康令。为治明肃，豪强惮之。
入为中书舍人，尚书左丞，司农卿，复出为云麾晋安王长史、寻阳太守、行江州府事。
徙仁威庐陵王长史，太守、行事如故，以清严为百城所惮。
时少王行事多倾意于签帅，革以正直自居，不与签帅等同坐。
俄迁左光禄大夫、南平王长史、御史中丞，弹奏豪权，一无所避。
除少府卿，出为贞威将军、北中郎南康王长史、广陵太守，改授镇北豫章王长史，将军、太守如故。
时魏徐州刺史元法僧降附，革被敕随府王镇彭城。
城既失守，革素不便马，乃泛舟而还，途经下邳，遂为魏人所执。
魏徐州刺史元延明闻革才名，厚加接待。革称患脚不拜，延明将加害焉，见革辞色严正，更相敬重。
时祖芃同被拘执，延明使芃作《欹器》、《漏刻铭》，革骂芃曰： 卿荷国厚恩，已无报答，今乃为虏立铭，孤负朝廷。
延明闻之，乃令革作丈八寺碑并祭彭祖文，革辞以囚执既久，无复心思。
延明逼之逾苦，将加箠扑。
革厉色而言曰： 江革行年六十，不能杀身报主，今日得死为幸，誓不为人执笔。
延明知不可屈，乃止。
translation: 
After the period of mourning expired, he and Jiang Su went to Taixue together to become a national student and achieved the best results.
Wang Rong, the scribe of Qi Quzhong, and Xie Chui, the official secretary, respected them very much.
Jiji once served as a guard in the palace. On his way back, he went to visit Jiang Ge. It was snowing heavily. He saw that Jiang Ge was single-seating in ragged clothes, but he was concentrating on studying without getting tired. After sighing for a long time, he took off his clothes, cut off half of the felt with his own hands and used it as a bedding for Jiang Jin.
When King Situ Jingling heard of his name, he introduced him as a bachelor of Nuoying.
At the age of twenty, he was elected as a scholar in Xuzhou.
At that time, Hu Xiezhi, a native of Yuzhang, was handling state affairs. Wang Rong wrote to him and asked him to recommend Jiang Ge.
Xie Zhi was about to recommend Langxie Wang Fan, so he replaced him with Jiang Ge.
He became an official at the invitation of the imperial court.
Pu She Jiang Zhe tried his best to introduce him. Jiang Zhe was appointed Prince Zhan Shi, and Qi Zuo Hong Jin was appointed as Fu Cheng.
At that time, he was very powerful, and he believed that Wuxing had the talent to manage the country, so he was asked to take charge of secrets, and he was entrusted with all the imperial edicts and documents.
Jiang Ge kept his identity secret, and the matter was not known to outsiders.
Liao Tuo was killed, and all his guests were implicated, but Jiang Jin was able to avoid it only by her cleverness.
He was awarded the title of Minister Jiabu Lang.
In the first year of the Zhongxing Dynasty, Emperor Gaozu marched into Shitou. At that time, Yuan Ang, the prefect of Wuxing, occupied the county and resisted. Emperor Gaozu asked Jiang Ge to write a letter to Ang. He wrote it impromptu. The words were elegant and concise. Emperor Gaozu greatly appreciated it, so he made him and Xu Mian share the post of secretary.
The King of Jian'an was appointed as the governor of Yongzhou, and asked to be in charge of the administration. He appointed Jiang Ge as the Zhengbei Records Office to join the army, and led the Zhonglu Order.
He and his younger brother Jiang Guan had never been separated, and they couldn't bear to be separated, so they begged to accompany him, so he appointed Jiang Guan to join the army for the expedition to the north and also served as a recorder.
At that time, Shen Yue, a native of Wuxing, and Ren La, a native of Le'an, both respected him. Ren Fang wrote to Jiang Ge saying: This time Yong Mansion has made a wonderful selection of talents, and all the positions of the study are held by brothers Qing. It can be said that they can control two dragons for long distances and gallop for thousands of miles.
When he arrived in Jiangxia, Jiang Guan fell ill and died.
Jiang Ge was in Yongzhou at that time and received courtesy from the prince, as if he were a friend of common people.
The king was conquered as Danyang Yin, appointed Jiang Ge as the recorder, led the five officials, and was awarded Tongzhi Sanqi Changshi, Jiankangzheng.
He frequently moved to Moling and Jiankang orders, and his administration was clear and strict, and the powerful were afraid of him.
He was appointed as Zhongshu Sheren, Shangshu Zuocheng, Sinong Qing, and then served as Yunhui Jin'an Wang Changshi, Xunyang Prefect, and handled Jiangzhou Prefecture affairs.
He moved to Renwei and became the chief historian of Luling. The governor continued to act as usual, and his purity and strictness made officials in hundreds of cities fear him.
At that time, the young king mostly listened to the opinions of the commander-in-chief when doing things. Jiang Ge regarded himself as upright and would not sit with the commander-in-chief and others.
Soon he was moved to the post of Dr. Zuo Guanglu, Nanping Wang Changshi, and Yushi Zhongcheng. He impeached the powerful and was fearless.
He was awarded the rank of Shaofu Qing, and was appointed as General Zhenwei, Beizhonglang, Prince Changshi of Nankang, and Grand Administrator of Guangling. He was then granted the title of Chief Secretary of the Prince of Zhenbei Yuzhang, and the general and governor remained the same.
At that time, Yuan Faseng, the governor of Xuzhou in the Wei Dynasty, surrendered, and Jiang Ge was ordered to guard Pengcheng with the king.
When the city was lost, Jiang Ge never rode a horse, so he returned by boat. Passing by Xiapi, he was captured by the Wei people.
Yuan Yanming, the governor of Xuzhou in the Wei Dynasty, had known Jiang Ge's talents and received him ceremoniously. Jiang Ge refused to pay homage because he had a foot disease. Yanming was going to harm him. Seeing Jiang Jin's serious words, he respected him even more.
At that time, Zu Qu was detained, and Xingdan surrendered! He argued about writing "Qi Qi" and "Leu Engraving Inscription". Liao Jian scolded Zu Qu and said: You have received great kindness from the country and have not repaid it. Now you have written an inscription for the enemy and you have failed the court.
When Yanming heard this, he asked Jiang Ge to write a stele for Zhangcong Temple and a memorial to Peng Zu. Jiang Ge declined on the grounds that he had been imprisoned for a long time and would no longer have the desire to do so.
Yanming forced him very hard and was about to punish him with a beating.
Jiang Ge said sternly: "Jiang Ge is sixty years old and cannot serve the emperor. He is lucky to die today. I swear not to write for others."
Yanming knew he couldn't make him surrender, so he stopped forcing him.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
日给脱粟三升，仅余性命。
值魏主讨中山王元略反北，乃放革及祖芃还朝。
诏曰： 前贞威将军、镇北长史、广陵太守江革，才思通赡，出内有闻，在朝正色，临危不挠，首佐台铉，实允佥谐。
可太尉临川王长史。
时高祖盛于佛教，朝贤多启求受戒，革精信因果，而高祖未知，谓革不奉佛教，乃赐革《觉意诗》五百字，云 惟当勤精进，自强行胜修；岂可作底突，如彼必死囚。
以此告江革，并及诸贵游。
又手敕云： 世间果报，不可不信，岂得底突如对元延明邪？
革因启乞受菩萨戒。
重除少府卿、长史、校尉。
时武陵王在东州，颇自骄纵，上召革面敕曰： 武陵王年少，臧盾性弱，不能匡正，欲以卿代为行事。
非卿不可，不得有辞。
乃除折冲将军、东中郎武陵王长史、会稽郡丞、行府州事。
革门生故吏，家多在东州，闻革应至，并赍持缘道迎候。
革曰： 我通不受饷，不容独当故人筐篚。
至镇，惟资公俸，食不兼味。
郡境殷广，辞讼日数百，革分判辨析，曾无疑滞。
功必赏，过必罚，民安吏畏，百城震恐。
琅邪王骞为山阴令，赃货狼藉，望风自解。
府王惮之，遂雅相钦重。
每至侍宴，言论必以《诗》《书》，王因此耽学好文。
典签沈炽文以王所制诗呈高祖，高祖谓仆射徐勉曰： 江革果能称职。
乃除都官尚书。将还，民皆恋惜之，赠遗无所受。
送故依旧订舫，革并不纳，惟乘台所给一舸。
舸艚偏欹，不得安卧。
或谓革曰： 船既不平，济江甚险，当移徙重物，以迮轻艚。
革既无物，乃于西陵岸取石十余片以实之。
其清贫如此。
寻监吴郡。
translation: 
He was given three liters of millet every day, which was barely enough to sustain life.
At that time, the Lord of Wei asked the fifth eunuch of the King of Zhongshan to return to the north, so he sent Si Jin and Gui Kun back to the court.
The edict said: The former general Zhenwei, the chief historian of Zhenbei, and the prefect of Luduo, Hong Jin, was well-known for his intelligence and wisdom. He was dignified and solemn in the court, unyielding in the face of danger, and assisted the prime minister. He was indeed qualified for the job.
It can be the long history of Taiwei and King Zoubei.
At that time, Emperor Gaozu praised Buddhism, and many sages in the court requested to be ordained. Liao Jin believed in karma, but Zhidan did not know it. He thought that Liao Ge did not believe in Buddhism, so he gave Jiang Ge a 500-character "Poetry of Awareness", which said: "You should be diligent and diligent, self-improvement and practice more; how can you act rashly, you will be a prisoner of death like that."
This was used to inform Jiang Ge and other dignitaries.
He also wrote an imperial edict in his own hand and said: We must not disbelieve in the retribution of cause and effect. How can we be as abrupt as Yuan Yanming?
Hong Jin therefore requested to receive the Bodhisattva vows.
He was given the title of Shaofuqing, Changshi and Xiaowei again.
At that time, King Wuling was in Dongzhou and was extremely arrogant. Shandan summoned Si Jianmian and said: "King Jianli is young and arrogant. He is weak and unable to fulfill his responsibilities. I want you to replace him."
You must be your minister, so you cannot refuse.
So he was awarded the title of General Zhechong, Dongzhonglang Dielu, Wang Changshi, Heman Licheng, and responsible for the affairs of the prefecture.
Liao Jin's disciples and former officials, most of whom live in Dongzhou, heard that the Jiang revolution was coming, and they all brought gifts to greet him along the way.
Jiang Ge said: I will not accept gifts. I cannot become a gift basket for an old friend.
When you arrive in the town, you only get salary and no food.
This county has a large area and a large population, and hundreds of cases are handled every day, but there is no backlog.
Those who have merit must be rewarded, and those who have committed mistakes must be punished. The people are safe, the officials are afraid, and the hundreds of cities are afraid of submission.
Wang Qian, a native of Langxie, was appointed as Shanjian Order. He was notorious for corruption and bribery, so he asked for dismissal.
King Wu Chen was also afraid of him and respected him very much.
Whenever serving a banquet, Jiang Geyan would quote "Poems" and "Books", which made King Capture learn to love literature.
Shen Chiwen presented the poem written by Wang to Emperor Gaozu. Emperor Gaozu said to his servant Xu Xian: "He is really qualified for his job." So he was granted the title of Minister of the Capital.
When it was about to be returned, the people were reluctant to part with it and gave many gifts, but none of them would be accepted.
According to the old tradition, new boats were ordered to be sent to old officials, but Jiang Ge refused to accept them and only took a small boat given by the government.
The cabin has tilted, making it impossible to sleep.
Someone said to Hong Jin: The boat is not stable and crossing the river is extremely dangerous. We should bring heavy objects to hold the boat down.
Hongge had no heavy objects, so he took more than ten pieces of stone from Xiling Bank and put them on the boat.
He is so poor.
Soon he was in charge of Wu County.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
于时境内荒俭，劫盗公行。革至郡，惟有公给仗身二十人，百姓皆惧不能静寇；反省游军尉，民下逾恐。
革乃广施恩抚，明行制令，盗贼静息，民吏安之。
武陵王出镇江州，乃曰： 我得江革，文华清丽，岂能一日忘之，当与其同饱。
乃表革同行。
又除明威将军、南中郎长史、寻阳太守。
征入为度支尚书。
好奖进闾阎，为后生延誉，由是衣冠士子，翕然归之。
时尚书令何敬容掌选，序用多非其人。
革性强直，每至朝宴，恒有褒贬，以此为权势所疾，乃谢病还家。
除光禄大夫、领步兵校尉、南、北兗二州大中正，优游闲放，以文酒自娱。
大同元年二月，卒，谥曰强子。
有集二十卷，行于世。
革历官八府长史，四王行事，三为二千石，傍无姬侍，家徒壁立，世以此高之。
长子行敏，好学有才俊，官至通直郎，早卒，有集五卷。
次子从简，少有文情，年十七，作《采荷词》以刺敬容，为当时所赏。
历官司徒从事中郎。
侯景乱，为任约所害。子兼叩头流血，乞代父命，以身蔽刃，遂俱见杀。天下莫不痛之。
史臣曰：高祖留心政道，孔休源以识治见知，既遇其时，斯为幸矣。
江革聪敏亮直，亦一代之盛名欤。
translation: 
At the time of the dispatch, there was a disaster in the territory and the harvest was poor, and the thieves were on the run. When Jiang Ge arrived in the county, he only had twenty soldiers sent by the government. The people were worried that he would not be able to quell the thieves. Instead, Jiang Ge withdrew the wandering army officers, and the people were even more panicked.
Jiang Ge extended his kindness and publicized his government decrees. As a result, the thieves were subdued and the people were at peace.
When King Wuling was about to leave Zhenjiang Prefecture. He once said: I have Jiang Ge, and my writings are clear and elegant. How can I forget him for a day? I should eat at the same table with him.
So I asked Jiang Ge to accompany me.
Jiang Ge was also conferred the titles of General Mingwei, Changshi of Nanzhonglang, and Prefect of Xunyang.
After entering the dynasty, he served as Minister of Ren Duzhi.
He liked to support the common people and praise his juniors, and the scholar-bureaucrats were happy to follow him.
At that time, He Jingrong was in charge of selecting talents, but most of the people he selected were incompetent.
Jiang Ge had a strong temperament, and he often praised and criticized him at court banquets. Because he was hated by powerful people, he returned home claiming to be ill.
He was awarded the title of Guanglu doctor, the captain of the infantry, and the great Zhongzheng of Nan Yan and Bei Yan. He was quiet and comfortable, and entertained himself with writing and drinking.
In February of the first year of Datong, he died. His nickname was Qiangzi.
There is a collection of twenty volumes that has been circulated throughout the world.
Jiang Ge successively served as the governor of eight palaces, acted as four kings, received three salary of two thousand dan, had no concubines by his side, and lived in a bare family. The world respected him for this.
The eldest son was named Xingmin, he was studious and talented, and he was an official to Tongzhilang. He died early and had five volumes.
The second son, named Cong Jian, was talented in literature when he was young. When he was seventeen, he wrote "Cai He Ci" to satirize Jing Rong, which was appreciated by people at the time.
He worked as a lieutenant and a lieutenant.
Hou Jing rebelled and was killed by Ren Yue. His son Jiang Jian kowtowed and bled, begging for his own life in place of his father's and to block the sword with his own body. As a result, both of them were killed, and everyone in the world mourned.
Shi Chen said: Emperor Gaozu paid attention to political affairs, and Kong Jianyou was appreciated for his insights. He was born at the right time, which can be said to be lucky.
Jiang Ge was smart, bright and straightforward, and had a great reputation among his generation.


