Chunk 0: 
original: 
张丞相苍者，阳武人也。好书律历。
秦时为御史，主柱下方书。
有罪，亡归。
及沛公略地过阳武，苍以客从攻南阳。
苍坐法当斩，解衣伏质，身长大，肥白如瓠，时王陵见而怪其美士，乃言沛公，赦勿斩。
遂从西入武关，至咸阳。
沛公立为汉王，入汉中，还定三秦。
陈馀击走常山王张耳，耳归汉，汉乃以张苍为常山守。
从淮阴侯击赵，苍得陈馀。
赵地已平，汉王以苍为代相，备边寇。
已而徙为赵相，相赵王耳。
耳卒，相赵王敖。
复徙相代王。
燕王臧荼反，高祖往击之。苍以代相从攻臧荼有功，以六年中封为北平侯，食邑千二百户。
迁为计相，一月，更以列侯为主计四岁。
是时萧何为相国，而张苍乃自秦时为柱下史，明习天下图书计籍。苍又善用算律历，故令苍以列侯居相府，领主郡国上计者。
黥布反亡，汉立皇子长为淮南王，而张苍相之。
十四年，迁为御史大夫。
周昌者，沛人也。其从兄曰周苛，秦时皆为泗水卒史。
及高祖起沛，击破泗水守监，於是周昌、周苛自卒史从沛公，沛公以周昌为职志，周苛为客。
从入关，破秦。
沛公立为汉王，以周苛为御史大夫，周昌为中尉。
汉王四年，楚围汉王荥阳急，汉王遁出去，而使周苛守荥阳城。
楚破荥阳城，欲令周苛将。苛骂曰： 若趣降汉王！不然，今为虏矣！
项羽怒，亨周苛。
於是乃拜周昌为御史大夫。
常从击破项籍。
以六年中与萧、曹等俱封：封周昌为汾阴侯；周苛子周成以父死事，封为高景侯。
昌为人彊力，敢直言，自萧、曹等皆卑下之。
昌尝燕时入奏事，高帝方拥戚姬，昌还走，高帝逐得，骑周昌项，问曰： 我何如主也？
translation: 
Prime Minister Zhang Cang is from Yangwu. He likes books, music and calendars very much.
During the Qin Dynasty, he served as the censor and was in charge of various documents and files in the palace.
Later, because of the crime, he ran away and went home.
When Pei Gong conquered the city and passed Yangwu, Zhang Cang followed Pei Gong as a guest to attack Nanyang.
Later, Zhang Cang should be beheaded for breaking the law. When he took off his clothes and leaned on the instrument of torture, he was tall and big, with skin as plump and fair as gourd seeds. Wang Ling happened to see him and marveled at how good Zhang Cang was. Therefore, Wang Ling interceded with Pei Gong and pardoned his death penalty.
In this way, Zhang Cang followed Pei Gong westward into Wuguan and arrived at Xianyang.
Pei Gong was established as the king of Han, entered Hanzhong, and soon returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties.
Chen Yu defeated Zhang Er, the king of Changshan, and Zhang Er surrendered to the king of Han. The king of Han appointed Zhang Cang as the governor of Changshan.
He also followed Han Xin to attack Zhao, and Zhang Cang captured Chen Yu.
After Zhao Di was pacified, the king appointed Zhang Cang as the Prime Minister of the country to guard against border enemies.
Soon after, he was transferred to Zhao Guo Xiangguo to assist Zhao Wang Zhang Er.
After Zhang Er died, he assisted Zhao Wang Zhang Ao.
Then he was transferred to Dai Guo Xiangguo to assist Dai Wang.
When King Zang Tu of Yan rebelled, Emperor Gaozu led troops to attack. Zhang Cang followed Emperor Gaozu as the acting prime minister for his meritorious service in attacking Zang Tu. In the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Beiping, with a settlement of 1,200 households.
Later, Zhang Cang was promoted to the position of Prime Minister in charge of financial management. Instead, he served as chief accountant as Liehou, a position he held for four years.
At this time, Xiao He was serving as the prime minister, and Zhang Cang had been serving as the historian since the Qin Dynasty. He was very familiar with the world's books and various books. In addition, he was proficient in calculations, music and calendars, so he was ordered to stay in the prime minister's mansion as a prince and be responsible for managing the accounting books handed over by various counties.
When Yingbu failed to rebel and fled, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty appointed his son Liu Chang as king of Huainan and ordered Zhang Cang to assist him as prime minister.
Fourteen years later, Zhang Cang was promoted to the imperial censor.
Zhou Chang was a native of Peixian County. He and his cousin Zhou Ke both served as soldiers of Surabaya during the Qin Dynasty.
When Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty raised an army in Pei County, he defeated the governor and eunuch of Sishui County. In this way, the two brothers Zhou Chang and Zhou Ke followed Pei Gong with their qualifications as soldiers. Pei Gong appointed Zhou Chang to be in charge of the flag, and Zhou Ke was temporarily a guest in his tent.
Later, they all followed Pei Gong into the Pass and overthrew the rule of Qiang Qin.
Pei Gong was granted the title of King of Han, and the King of Han appointed Zhou Ke as Yushi Dafu and Zhou Chang as Lieutenant.
In the fourth year of the Han Dynasty, the Chu army surrounded the Han Dynasty in Xingyang. The situation was urgent. The Han Dynasty quietly escaped and ordered Zhou Ke to stay in Xingyang City.
The Chu army conquered Xingyang and wanted to appoint him as a general. Zhou Ke scolded him: You people should surrender to the king of Han quickly, otherwise you will be prisoners soon!
Xiang Yu was furious after hearing this and immediately cooked and killed Zhou Ke.
Therefore, the king of Han worshiped Zhou Chang as the imperial censor.
Zhou Chang often followed the King of Han and defeated Xiang Yu's army many times.
Therefore, in the sixth year of Emperor Gaozu, Zhou Chang was granted the title of Marquis of Fenyin together with Xiao He and Cao Shen. Zhou Ke's son Zhou Cheng was also granted the title of Marquis of Gao Jing because his father died for the country.
Zhou Chang is a stoic and strong man who dares to speak his mind. People like Xiao He, Cao Shen and others were in great awe of Zhou Chang.
Zhou Chang once entered the palace to perform business when Emperor Gao was resting. Emperor Gao was hugging Qi Ji. Seeing this, Zhou Chang turned around and ran away. Emperor Gao quickly chased after him. After catching up, he rode on Zhou Chang's neck and asked, "What kind of emperor do you think I am?"


Chunk 1: 
original: 
昌仰曰： 陛下即桀纣之主也。
於是上笑之，然尤惮周昌。
及帝欲废太子，而立戚姬子如意为太子，大臣固争之，莫能得；上以留侯策即止。
而周昌廷争之彊，上问其说，昌为人吃，又盛怒，曰： 臣口不能言，然臣期期知其不可。
陛下虽欲废太子，臣期期不奉诏。
上欣然而笑。
既罢，吕后侧耳於东箱听，见周昌，为跪谢曰： 微君，太子几废。
是後戚姬子如意为赵王，年十岁，高祖忧即万岁之後不全也。
赵尧年少，为符玺御史。赵人方与公谓御史大夫周昌曰： 君之史赵尧，年虽少，然奇才也，君必异之，是且代君之位。
周昌笑曰； 尧年少，刀笔吏耳，何能至是乎！
居顷之，赵尧侍高祖。
高祖独心不乐，悲歌，群臣不知上之所以然。
赵尧进请问曰： 陛下所为不乐，非为赵王年少而戚夫人与吕后有卻邪？
备万岁之後而赵王不能自全乎？
高祖曰： 然。
吾私忧之，不知所出。
尧曰： 陛下独宜为赵王置贵彊相，及吕后、太子、群臣素所敬惮乃可。 高祖曰： 然。
吾念之欲如是，而群臣谁可者？
於是乃召周昌，谓曰： 吾欲固烦公，公彊为我相赵王。
周昌泣曰： 臣初起从陛下，陛下独柰何中道而弃之於诸侯乎？
高祖曰： 吾极知其左迁，然吾私忧赵王，念非公无可者。公不得已彊行！
於是徙御史大夫周昌为赵相。
translation: 
Zhou Chang straightened his neck, raised his head and said: Your Majesty, you are an emperor like Xia Jie and Shang Zhou.
Emperor Gao laughed loudly after hearing this, but he was most in awe of Zhou Chang.
When Emperor Gao wanted to depose the crown prince and make Qi Ji's son Ruyi the crown prince, many ministers firmly opposed it, but it didn't work.
Later, fortunately, Zhang Liang made a plan for Empress Lu, so Emperor Gao temporarily gave up the idea. Zhou Chang, on the other hand, had a tough attitude when he was admonishing the emperor. Emperor Gao asked him what the reason was, because Zhou Chang already had a stuttering problem, and when he was very angry, his stuttering became more severe. He said: Although my eloquence is not very good, I have always known that this will not work.
Your Majesty, although you want to depose the prince, I will never accept your edict.
After hearing this, Emperor Gao laughed happily.
After the incident, Empress Lu heard the above conversation in the east chamber. When she saw Zhou Chang, she knelt down and thanked him and said: If you hadn't argued hard with your reason, the prince would have been deposed.
After that, Qi Ji's son Ruyi was appointed King of Zhao at the age of ten. Gaozu was worried that if he died, King Zhao would be killed.
At that time, there was a young man named Zhao Yao, whose official position was to be the censor in charge of Fu Xi. Fang Yugong, a member of Zhao State, said to Zhou Chang, the censor doctor: "Your censor Zhao Yao is young, but he is a wizard. You must treat him differently. He will replace you in the future."
Zhou Chang smiled and said: "Zhao Yao is young and is just a small official with a sword and a pen. How could he reach such a state!"
Soon after, Zhao Yao went to serve Gaozu.
One day, Emperor Gaozu was depressed alone and sang sadly. The civil and military officials in the court didn't know why the emperor was like this.
Zhao Yao stepped forward and asked: "Your Majesty, the reason why you are so unhappy is because the King of Zhao is young, and Mrs. Qi and Queen Lu are not in harmony with each other?"
Are you worried that King Zhao will not be able to protect himself after you live forever?
Gaozu said: Yes.
Privately, I'm very worried about this and don't know what to do.
Zhao Yao said: You'd better send a noble and strong prime minister for King Zhao. This person must be someone who is respected by Empress Lu, the prince and all the ministers. Gaozu said: Yes.
This is what I think about this matter, but who among the officials in the Manchu Dynasty can take on this important task?
Zhao Yao said: Zhou Chang, the imperial censor, is a strong and upright man. Moreover, from Empress Lu and the prince to the civil and military officials of the Manchu Dynasty, everyone has always been in awe of him. Therefore, only he can take on this important task. Gaozu said: OK.
So Gaozu summoned Zhou Chang and said to him: I think I must trouble you. You must assist King Zhao for me no matter what, and you can serve as his prime minister. Zhou Chang cried and replied: I have been following Your Majesty from the beginning. Why did you just abandon me to the princes and kings halfway?
Gaozu said: I know that this is a demotion, but privately I am really worried about King Zhao. After thinking about it again and again, no one else can do it except you.
You really have no choice but to go away for me! So Zhou Chang, the imperial censor, was transferred to the position of Prime Minister of the State of Zhao.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
既行久之，高祖持御史大夫印弄之，曰： 谁可以为御史大夫者？
孰视赵尧，曰： 无以易尧。
遂拜赵尧为御史大夫。
尧亦前有军功食邑，及以御史大夫从击陈豨有功，封为江邑侯。
高祖崩，吕太后使使召赵王，其相周昌令王称疾不行。
使者三反，周昌固为不遣赵王。
於是高后患之，乃使使召周昌。
周昌至，谒高后，高后怒而骂周昌曰： 尔不知我之怨戚氏乎？
而不遣赵王，何？
昌既徵，高后使使召赵王，赵王果来。
至长安月馀，饮药而死。
周昌因谢病不朝见，三岁而死。
後五岁，高后闻御史大夫江邑侯赵尧高祖时定赵王如意之画，乃抵尧罪，以广阿侯任敖为御史大夫。
任敖者，故沛狱吏。
高祖尝辟吏，吏系吕后，遇之不谨。
任敖素善高祖，怒，击伤主吕后吏。
及高祖初起，敖以客从为御史，守丰二岁，高祖立为汉王，东击项籍，敖迁为上党守。
陈豨反时，敖坚守，封为广阿侯，食千八百户。
高后时为御史大夫。
三岁免，以平阳侯曹窋为御史大夫。
高后崩，与大臣共诛吕禄等。免，以淮南相张苍为御史大夫。
苍与绛侯等尊立代王为孝文皇帝。
四年，丞相灌婴卒，张苍为丞相。
自汉兴至孝文二十馀年，会天下初定，将相公卿皆军吏。张苍为计相时，绪正律历。
以高祖十月始至霸上，因故秦时本以十月为岁首，弗革。
推五德之运，以为汉当水德之时，尚黑如故。
translation: 
After Zhou Chang left, a long time passed. Gaozu held the official seal of the imperial censor in his hand, gently caressed it and said: Who is the most suitable candidate for the imperial censor?
Then he looked at Zhao Yao carefully and said: No one is more suitable than Zhao Yao.
In this way, Zhao Yao was appointed as the imperial censor.
Zhao Yao also had military merits and food in the past. When he followed the imperial censor to attack Chen Xi and made meritorious service, he was named the Marquis of Jiangyi.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, Empress Dowager Lu sent an envoy to summon King Zhao to the court. Prime Minister Zhou Chang asked King Zhao to say that he was not in good health and could not go.
The envoy went back and forth three times, but Zhou Changdu always insisted not to send King Zhao to Beijing.
So Empress Lu was very worried and sent an envoy to summon Zhou Chang to the capital.
After Zhou Chang came to Beijing, he met with Empress Lu. Empress Lu scolded him very angrily: Don't you know that I hate Mrs. Qi very much?
But you didn't let King Zhao enter the capital, why?
After Zhou Chang was summoned to the capital, Empress Lu sent an envoy to summon King Zhao. Soon, King Zhao came to the capital.
More than a month after he arrived in Chang'an, he was forced to drink poison and died.
Therefore, Zhou Chang claimed that he was recovering from illness and no longer went to court to see the Queen Mother. Three years later, he too died.
Five years later, Gao Hou heard that the imperial censor Zhao Yao, the Marquis of Jiangyi, had made a plan to protect King Zhao Ruyi during the reign of Emperor Gaozu, so he removed his title of Marquis of Jiangyi to compensate for his crime, and made Ren Ao, Marquis of Guang'a, the censor.
Ren Ao turned out to be a jailer in Peixian County.
When Emperor Gaozu was still an ordinary citizen, he avoided lawsuits. The jailers could not find Emperor Gaozu himself, so they captured Empress Lu and disrespected her.
Ren Ao, who had always been close to Emperor Gaozu, was very angry when he saw this, so he wounded the jailer who was detaining Empress Lu.
When Emperor Gaozu began to raise troops, Ren Ao followed him as a guest, and later served as censor, stationed in Fengyi for two years. Emperor Gaozu established himself as King of Han, marched eastward to attack Xiang Yu, and promoted Ao to the post of governor of Shangdang County.
When Chen Kui rebelled, Ren Ao held on to the city and was not captured by the rebels. For his meritorious service, he was granted the title of Marquis of Guang'a, with a settlement of 1,800 households.
When he was in high school, he served as the imperial censor.
Three years later, he was dismissed and appointed Pingyang Marquis Cao Cheng as the imperial censor.
After the death of Empress Gao, Cao Cheng and his ministers jointly killed Lu Lu and others. Afterwards, he was removed from his official position and appointed Zhang Cang, the prime minister of the King of Huainan, as the imperial censor.
Zhang Cang, Jianghou Zhou Bo and others jointly honored Dai Wang as Emperor Xiaowen.
In the fourth year of Emperor Wen's reign, Prime Minister Guan Ying passed away and Zhang Cang succeeded him as Prime Minister.
It had been more than twenty years since the establishment of the Han Dynasty to Emperor Xiaowen. At that time, the world was just peaceful, and all the civil and military officials in the court were soldiers. However, Zhang Cang was the only one who devoted himself to exploring and revising music and calendars from the time he served as Prime Minister.
Because Emperor Gaozu entered the Pass in October and defeated the Qin Dynasty and reached Ba Shang, the old calendar of the Qin Dynasty that started the year in October was still followed.
He also speculated on the operation of the five virtues of metal, wood, water, fire, and earth, and believed that the Han Dynasty was in the period when the virtue of water was strong, so it still advocated black like the Qin Dynasty.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
吹律调乐，入之音声，及以比定律令。
若百工，天下作程品。
至於为丞相，卒就之，故汉家言律历者，本之张苍。
苍本好书，无所不观，无所不通，而尤善律历。
张苍德王陵。
王陵者，安国侯也。
及苍贵，常父事王陵。
陵死後，苍为丞相，洗沐，常先朝陵夫人上食，然后敢归家。
苍为丞相十馀年，鲁人公孙臣上书言汉土德时，其符有黄龙当见。
诏下其议张苍，张苍以为非是，罢之。
其後黄龙见成纪，於是文帝召公孙臣以为博士，草土德之历制度，更元年。
张丞相由此自绌，谢病称老。
苍任人为中候，大为奸利，上以让苍，苍遂病免。
苍为丞相十五岁而免。
孝景前五年，苍卒，谥为文侯。子康侯代，八年卒。
子类代为侯，八年，坐临诸侯丧後就位不敬，国除。
初，张苍父长不满五尺，及生苍，苍长八尺馀，为侯、丞相。
苍子复长。及孙类，长六尺馀，坐法失侯。
苍之免相後，老，口中无齿，食乳，女子为乳母。
妻妾以百数，尝孕者不复幸。
苍年百有馀岁而卒。
申屠丞相嘉者，梁人，以材官蹶张从高帝击项籍，迁为队率。
从击黥布军，为都尉。
孝惠时，为淮阳守。
translation: 
Zhang Cang also played the temperament pipe, adjusted the music to match the five tones and eight tones, and used this to deduce other rules to formulate the laws.
And from this, the measurement standards of various utensils were formulated as standards for all kinds of craftsmen in the world.
During his tenure as prime minister, he finally accomplished all this. Therefore, scholars who studied music and calendar throughout the Han Dynasty all studied under Zhang Cang.
And Zhang Cang likes books. In addition, he can read all kinds of books and is proficient in all kinds of knowledge, especially music and calendar.
Zhang Cang was grateful to Wang Ling who had saved his life.
The royal tomb is the Marquis of Anguo.
After Zhang Cang became noble, he often served Wang Ling as his father.
After Wang Ling's death, Zhang Cang became prime minister, but during every five-day vacation, he always visited Mrs. Wang Ling and presented her with delicious food before going home.
After Zhang Cang served as prime minister for more than ten years, a man named Gongsun Chen from the State of Lu wrote to the emperor, saying that the Han Dynasty was a period of strong native virtue, and the sign was that a yellow dragon would appear soon.
The emperor issued an edict to hand over the proposal to Zhang Cang for review. Zhang Cang thought it was not the case and threw the matter aside.
But later Huanglong actually appeared in Chengji County, Tianshui County, so Emperor Wen summoned Gongsun Chen to the court and appointed him as a doctor, making him responsible for drafting a calendar system that conformed to Tu De. At the same time, the first year was changed.
Prime Minister Zhang Cang therefore retired on his own, claiming that he had been ill for many years and would no longer go to court.
Zhang Cang once recommended someone to be a middle marquis official, but this person took advantage of his power to commit corruption and pervert the law. The emperor blamed Zhang Cang for this, and Zhang Cang resigned due to illness.
Counting it all together, Zhang Cang served as prime minister for a total of fifteen years before resigning.
Zhang Cang died in the fifth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign and was given the posthumous title Wenhou. His son Kanghou inherited the title and died eight years later.
Zhang Lei, the son of Marquis Kang, succeeded to the throne. Eight years later, the titles and fiefdoms were revoked because he was guilty of disrespecting the princes after attending their funerals.
In the past, Zhang Cang's father was less than five feet tall. After giving birth to Zhang Cang, Zhang Cang was eight feet tall. He was named a marquis and became a prime minister.
Zhang Cang's son was also very tall, but his grandson Zhang Lei was a little over six feet tall. He lost his title because of a violation of the law.
After Zhang Cang was dismissed as prime minister, he was already very old and had no teeth in his mouth. He could only live by sucking milk and used young women as his wet nurses.
He had many wives and concubines, numbering around a hundred, and anyone who had ever given birth to a child was no longer favored.
Zhang Cang finally lived to be more than a hundred years old before passing away.
Prime Minister Shen Tujia was from Liang. As a warrior who could draw strong bows and crossbows, he followed Emperor Gao to attack Xiang Yu, and was promoted to a minor official called Duiliu due to his military exploits.
When he followed Emperor Gao to attack the Yingbu rebels, he was promoted to captain.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaohui, he was promoted to the governor of Huaiyang County.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
孝文帝元年，举故吏士二千石从高皇帝者，悉以为关内侯，食邑二十四人，而申屠嘉食邑五百户。
张苍已为丞相，嘉迁为御史大夫。
张苍免相，孝文帝欲用皇后弟窦广国为丞相，曰： 恐天下以吾私广国。
广国贤有行，故欲相之，念久之不可，而高帝时大臣又皆多死，馀见无可者，乃以御史大夫嘉为丞相，因故邑封为故安侯。
嘉为人廉直，门不受私谒。
是时太中大夫邓通方隆爱幸，赏赐累巨万。
文帝尝燕饮通家，其宠如是。
是时丞相入朝，而通居上傍，有怠慢之礼。
丞相奏事毕，因言曰： 陛下爱幸臣，则富贵之；至於朝廷之礼，不可以不肃！
上曰： 君勿言，吾私之。
罢朝坐府中，嘉为檄召邓通诣丞相府，不来，且斩通。
通恐，入言文帝。
文帝曰： 汝第往，吾今使人召若。
通至丞相府，免冠，徒跣，顿首谢。
嘉坐自如，故不为礼，责曰： 夫朝廷者，高皇帝之朝廷也。
通小臣，戏殿上，大不敬，当斩。
吏今行斩之！
通顿首，首尽出血，不解。
文帝度丞相已困通，使使者持节召通，而谢丞相曰： 此吾弄臣，君释之。
邓通既至，为文帝泣曰： 丞相几杀臣。
嘉为丞相五岁，孝文帝崩，孝景帝即位。
二年，晁错为内史，贵幸用事，诸法令多所请变更，议以谪罚侵削诸侯。
而丞相嘉自绌所言不用，疾错。
translation: 
In the first year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, officials who had followed Emperor Gao in the Northern and Southern Wars and whose current salary was two thousand shi were all selected and granted the title of Marquis of Guannei. A total of twenty-four people were awarded this title, and Shen Tujia received five hundred households.
After Zhang Cang became prime minister, Shen Tujia was promoted to the imperial censor.
After Zhang Cang dismissed him as prime minister, Emperor Xiaowen wanted to appoint the queen's brother Dou Guangguo as prime minister, but he said: I am afraid that doing so will make the world think that I favor Guangguo.
Dou Guangguo was a man of great talent and good moral character, so the emperor wanted to appoint him as prime minister. But after long consideration, Emperor Xiaowen still thought he was not suitable. However, many ministers during the reign of Emperor Gao were dead, and there seemed to be no suitable candidate among the living people, so he appointed Shen Tujia as prime minister and made him a Marquis of Anhu in his original city.
Shen Tujia was an honest and upright person and did not accept private visits at home.
At that time, Deng Tong, the Taizhong doctor, was the most favored, and the emperor rewarded him with tens of millions of money.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty once went to his house to drink and have fun, which shows how much the emperor loved him.
At that time, the Prime Minister Shen Tujia went to the court to pay homage to the emperor, but Deng Tong stood beside the emperor and neglected his etiquette.
After Shen Tujia finished his speech, he continued: Your Majesty, you love your favorite and you can make him rich, but as for the etiquette in the court, you must take it seriously.
The emperor said: Please stop talking, I just have a preference for Deng Tong.
Shen Tujia came back from the court and sat in the Prime Minister's Mansion. He issued an order asking Deng Tong to come to the Prime Minister's Mansion. If he didn't come, Deng Tong would be beheaded.
Deng Tong was very frightened and went to the palace to tell Emperor Wen.
Emperor Wen said: "It's okay for you to go. I will send someone to summon you to the palace immediately."
Deng Tong came to the Prime Minister's Mansion, took off his hat and shoes, kowtowed to Shen Tujia and apologized.
Shen Tujia sat there casually, deliberately not treating him with courtesy, and at the same time scolded him: "The court is the court of Emperor Gaozu."
You, Deng Tong, are just a minor minister, but you dare to play in the main hall. You are guilty of disrespect and should be beheaded.
Whoever comes, execute it now and kill him!
Deng Tong kowtowed and his head was bleeding, but Shen Tujia still didn't say spare him.
Emperor Wen estimated that the prime minister had made Deng Tong suffer a lot, so he sent an envoy to summon Deng Tong into the palace with the emperor's official certificate. He apologized to the prime minister and said: "This is my dear minister, please spare him!"
After Deng Tong returned to the palace, he cried and said to Emperor Wen: The prime minister almost killed me!
Five years after Shen Tujia served as prime minister, Emperor Xiaowen died and Emperor Xiaojing ascended the throne.
In the second year of Emperor Jing's reign, Chao Cuo served as internal historian. Because he was favored by the emperor, he had a high status and great power. He petitioned the emperor to change many laws and regulations. At the same time, they also discussed how to use demotion and punishment to weaken the power of the princes.
Prime Minister Shen Tujia also felt that what he said was not adopted, so he hated Chao Cuo.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
错为内史，门东出，不便，更穿一门南出。
南出者，太上皇庙堧垣。嘉闻之，欲因此以法错擅穿宗庙垣为门，奏请诛错。
错客有语错，错恐，夜入宫上谒，自归景帝。
至朝，丞相奏请诛内史错。
景帝曰： 错所穿非真庙垣，乃外堧垣，故他官居其中，且又我使为之，错无罪。
罢朝，嘉谓长史曰： 吾悔不先斩错，乃先请之，为错所卖。
至舍，因欧血而死。谥为节侯。
子共侯蔑代，三年卒。
子侯去病代，三十一年卒。
子侯臾代，六岁，坐为九江太守受故官送有罪，国除。
自申屠嘉死之後，景帝时开封侯陶青、桃侯刘舍为丞相。
及今上时，柏至侯许昌、平棘侯薛泽、武彊侯庄青翟、高陵侯赵周等为丞相。
皆以列侯继嗣，娖娖廉谨，为丞相备员而已，无所能发明功名有著於当世者。太史公曰： 张苍文学律历，为汉名相，而绌贾生、公孙臣等言正朔服色事而不遵，明用秦之颛顼历，何哉？
周昌，木彊人也。
任敖以旧德用。
申屠嘉可谓刚毅守节矣，然无术学，殆与萧、曹、陈平异矣。
孝武时丞相多甚，不记，莫录其行起居状略，且纪征和以来。
有车丞相，长陵人也。卒而有韦丞相代。
韦丞相贤者，鲁人也。
以读书术为吏，至大鸿胪。
translation: 
Chao Cuo served as the internal historian. The gate of the internal historian's mansion originally led out of the palace from the east, which made it inconvenient for him to get in and out. So he took it upon himself to build a wall door to lead out to the south.
The wall cut through the door to the south was the outer wall of the Taishang Emperor's ancestral temple. After Shen Tujia heard about it, he wanted to use Chao Cuo's unauthorized cutting of the ancestral temple wall as a door to punish Chao Cuo and petition the emperor to kill him.
But someone among Chao Cuo's disciples told him about it. Chao Cuo was so frightened that he ran to the palace overnight, met with the emperor, surrendered to Emperor Jing, and explained the situation.
In the morning of the next day, Prime Minister Shen Tujia petitioned Chao Cuo, the internal minister, to be killed.
Emperor Jing said: The wall that Chao Cuo built was not the real ancestral temple wall, but the short outer wall of the ancestral temple, so other officials lived inside. Besides, I asked him to do this. Chao Cuo was not guilty.
After retiring from the court, Shen Tujia said to Chang Shi: I regret very much that I didn't kill Chao Cuo first, but reported it to the emperor first, only to be deceived by Chao Cuo.
After returning to the Prime Minister's Mansion, he vomited blood and died of anger, and was given the posthumous title of Jiehou.
His son Shen Tumi, the co-marquis, inherited the title and died three years later.
Shentu Qubing, the son of Gonghou, succeeded to the throne and died thirty-one years later.
Shentu Qubing's son Shentu immediately succeeded to the throne. Six years later, because he committed a crime as the governor of Jiujiang by accepting gifts from the former officials, the feudal state was revoked.
After the death of Shen Tujia, Tao Qing, the Marquis of Kaifeng, and Liu She, the Marquis of Tao, successively served as prime ministers during the reign of Emperor Jing.
By the time of the current royal family, Bai Zhihou Xuchang, Pingji Hou Xue Ze, Wuqiang Hou Zhuang Qingzhai, Gaoling Hou Zhao Zhou and others had become prime ministers one after another. They were all hereditary princes, mediocre and incompetent, cautious, and being prime ministers was just a waste of time.
No one is famous for his outstanding contributions and outstanding achievements. Tai Shigong said: Zhang Cang is very proficient in writing, knowledge, music and calendar, and is a famous prime minister in the Han Dynasty. However, he put aside the opinions of Jia Sheng, Gongsun Chen and others to adopt Zhengshuo and change the color of clothes. Instead of implementing them, he chose to adopt the Zhuanxu calendar implemented by the Qin Dynasty. Why is this?
Zhou Chang is simple, strong and upright, and he is as stubborn as wood and stone.
Ren Ao was reused because of his kindness to Empress Lu in the past.
Shen Tujia can be said to be a man of uprightness, perseverance, and noble moral character, but he neither understands power nor is knowledgeable. Compared with senior prime ministers such as Xiao He, Cao Shen, and Chen Ping, he is probably inferior.
There were many prime ministers during the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, so I will not name them one by one, nor record their origins, place of origin, dates of birth and death, conduct, deeds, etc. For the time being, I will record the prime ministers since Emperor Wu Zhenghe's reign.
Prime Minister Che Qianqiu was from Changling. After his death, he was succeeded by Prime Minister Wei.
Prime Minister Wei was famous as a virtuous man and a native of Lu.
Because he was proficient in reading, he served as a minor official, and then gradually rose to the position of Dahonglu.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
有相工相之，当至丞相。
有男四人，使相工相之，至第二子，其名玄成。相工曰： 此子贵，当封。
韦丞相言曰： 我即为丞相，有长子，是安从得之？
後竟为丞相，病死，而长子有罪论，不得嗣，而立玄成。
玄成时佯狂，不肯立，竟立之，有让国之名。
後坐骑至庙，不敬，有诏夺爵一级，为关内侯，失列侯，得食其故国邑。
韦丞相卒，有魏丞相代。
魏丞相相者，济阴人也。
以文吏至丞相。其人好武，皆令诸吏带剑，带剑前奏事。
或有不带剑者，当入奏事，至乃借剑而敢入奏事。
其时京兆尹赵君，丞相奏以免罪，使人执魏丞相，欲求脱罪而不听。
复使人胁恐魏丞相，以夫人贼杀待婢事而私独奏请验之，发吏卒至丞相舍，捕奴婢笞击问之，实不以兵刃杀也。
而丞相司直繁君奏京兆尹赵君迫胁丞相，诬以夫人贼杀婢，发吏卒围捕丞相舍，不道；又得擅屏骑士事，赵京兆坐要斩。
又有使掾陈平等劾中尚书，疑以独擅劫事而坐之，大不敬，长史以下皆坐死，或下蚕室。
而魏丞相竟以丞相病死。子嗣。後坐骑至庙，不敬，有诏夺爵一级，为关内侯，失列侯，得食其故国邑。
魏丞相卒，以御史大夫邴吉代。
邴丞相吉者，鲁国人也。
以读书好法令至御史大夫。
translation: 
A fortune teller once gave him a fortune telling him that he could become the prime minister.
He had four sons, and he asked the fortune teller to look at them. When he came to the second son named Wei Xuancheng, the fortune teller said: This child has a noble appearance and can be made a marquis in the future.
Prime Minister Wei said: Even if I become prime minister and be granted the title of marquis, and the eldest son inherits the title of marquis, how can the second son be granted the title of marquis?
Later, Wei Xuan became the prime minister, but died of illness, and his eldest son could not inherit the throne because of a crime, according to the law at that time, so Wei Xuancheng was established.
Wei Xuancheng pretended to be mentally disturbed at the time and refused to be the heir, but in the end the court allowed him to inherit the title, and he also won a good reputation as a prince who was about to give up the title to others.
Later, because he rode a horse and broke into the ancestral temple, he was sentenced to the crime of disrespect. The emperor issued an edict and was demoted one level to become a Marquis of Guannei. He lost the title of a lord, but he still enjoyed the previous fiefdom.
After the death of Prime Minister Wei, he was succeeded by Prime Minister Wei.
Prime Minister Wei's name is Wei Xiang, and he is from Yinji.
He was promoted from a civil servant to the position of prime minister, but he was a person who liked it. He required his subordinates to wear swords, and stipulated that only when they were wearing swords could they come forward to make an announcement.
If there are subordinate officials who do not have a sword and need to go in to report something, they will have to borrow a sword from others to bring it with them before they dare to enter the house.
At that time, Jing Zhaoyin was Zhao Junguanghan. Prime Minister Wei reported to the emperor that Zhao Guanghan had committed a crime that should be dismissed. Zhao Guanghan sent people to kidnap Prime Minister Wei in an attempt to get a promise of immunity, but Prime Minister Wei firmly refused.
In this way, Mr. Si Zhifan, the prime minister's adviser, reported to the emperor, saying that Zhao Guanghan, the king of Zhao, threatened the prime minister, falsely accused the prime minister's wife of killing his maid, sent officials and soldiers to surround and search the prime minister's house, and arrested the prime minister's family members, committing the unethical crime of killing innocent people.
At the same time, it was discovered that Zhao Guanghan had dispatched the knights without authorization.
Due to his serious crime, Zhao Guanghan was sentenced to death by being cut in half. Later, some emissaries, Chen Ping and others, exposed the minister in the report, suspected of hijacking and threatening the parties without authorization, and was sentenced for the crime of disrespect. As a result, several officials below the chief minister were executed, and some were sentenced to castration and sent to the silkworm room.
Prime Minister Wei finally passed away due to illness while serving as prime minister, and his son inherited the title. Later, he also broke into the ancestral temple on horseback and committed a crime of disrespect. The emperor issued an edict to demote him one level and became a Marquis of Guannei. He lost the title of a prince, but still enjoyed the former fiefdom of his hometown.
After the death of Prime Minister Wei, Bing Ji, the imperial censor, took over his position.
Prime Minister Bing's name is Bing Ji, and he is from the state of Lu.
Because he likes reading and enforcing laws, he became a censor.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
孝宣帝时，以有旧故，封为列侯，而因为丞相。
明於事，有大智，後世称之。
以丞相病死。子显嗣。
後坐骑至庙，不敬，有诏夺爵一级，失列侯，得食故国邑。
显为吏至太仆，坐官毛乱，身及子男有奸赃，免为庶人。
邴丞相卒，黄丞相代。
长安中有善相工田文者，与韦丞相、魏丞相、邴丞相微贱时会於客家，田文言曰： 今此三君者，皆丞相也。
其後三人竟更相代为丞相，何见之明也。
黄丞相霸者，淮阳人也。
以读书为吏，至颍川太守。
治颍川，以礼义条教喻告化之。
犯法者，风晓令自杀。
化大行，名声闻。
孝宣帝下制曰： 颍川太守霸，以宣布诏令治民，道不拾遗，男女异路，狱中无重囚。
赐爵关内侯，黄金百斤。
徵为京兆尹而至丞相，复以礼义为治。以丞相病死。
子嗣，後为列侯。
黄丞相卒，以御史大夫于定国代。
于丞相已有廷尉传，在张廷尉语中。
于丞相去，御史大夫韦玄成代。
韦丞相玄成者，即前韦丞相子也。
代父，後失列侯。
其人少时好读书，明於诗、论语。
为吏至卫尉，徙为太子太傅。
御史大夫薛君免，为御史大夫。
于丞相乞骸骨免，而为丞相，因封故邑为扶阳侯。
数年，病死。孝元帝亲临丧，赐赏甚厚。
子嗣後。其治容容随世俗浮沈，而见谓谄巧。
而相工本谓之当为侯代父，而後失之；复自游宦而起，至丞相。
父子俱为丞相，世间美之，岂不命哉！
translation: 
During the reign of Emperor Xiaoxuan, because of his old friendship with the emperor, he was named a prince, and then became the prime minister.
He was sensible and had intelligence and wisdom beyond ordinary people, and was praised by later generations.
He died of illness while serving as prime minister, and his son Bing Xian inherited the title.
Later, Bing Xian also broke into the ancestral temple on horseback and committed the crime of disrespect. The emperor issued an edict to demote him one level and became a Marquis of Guannei. He lost the title of a prince, but he still enjoyed the former fiefdom of his hometown.
Bing Xian served as an official until he became a servant. Because he was confused and unclear as an official, and he and his son committed malpractice and corruption for personal gain, he was dismissed from office and demoted to civilians.
After the death of Prime Minister Bing Ji, Prime Minister Huang succeeded him.
Once upon a time, there was a man in Chang'an who was good at reading faces. His name was Tian Wen. He met Prime Minister Wei, Prime Minister Wei, and Prime Minister Bing, who were not high-ranking officials at that time, when they were guests. Tian Wen said: "The three gentlemen here now will all be prime ministers in the future."
Later, these three people became prime ministers one after another. How could this man have such foresight!
Prime Minister Huang's name is Huang Ba, and he is from Huaiyin.
Because he liked reading, he became an official and became the prefect of Yingchuan.
When governing Yingchuan, he used etiquette, regulations and decrees to teach and influence the people.
If someone is guilty of a serious crime and should be beheaded, Xiao Zhi will rationally let him commit suicide.
His teachings spread throughout the world, and his reputation was known far and near.
Emperor Xiaoxuan specially issued a document for this purpose, saying: Huang Ba, the prefect of Yingchuan, used propaganda laws to govern the people, so no one picked up relics on the road, men and women went their own way, and there were no prisoners who committed serious crimes in the prison.
The title of Marquis of Guannei is specially given and one hundred catties of gold.
In this way, he was recruited by the emperor to the capital as Jing Zhaoyin, and later became prime minister. During his tenure as prime minister, he still governed the country with etiquette and justice, and finally died of illness while serving as prime minister.
After his death, his son inherited the title and was later made a prince.
After Prime Minister Huang died, the emperor appointed Yu Dingguo, the imperial censor, to take his place.
Prime Minister Yu Dingguo already has a biography of Tingwei, which is included in the biography of "Zhang Tingwei".
After Prime Minister Yu resigned, Wei Xuancheng, the imperial censor, took over his position.
Prime Minister Wei Xuancheng is the son of the Prime Minister Wei Xian mentioned earlier.
He inherited his father's title, but later lost his title due to breaking the law.
Wei Xuancheng has loved reading since he was a child and is very familiar with "The Classics" and "The Analects of Confucius".
When he reached the rank of Weiwei as an official, he was promoted to Prince Taifu.
After Mr. Xue, the imperial censor, was dismissed, Wei Xuancheng became the censor.
After the Prime Minister requested to retire and return to his hometown, and the Emperor agreed to his resignation, Wei Xuancheng became the Prime Minister again. The emperor named him Fuyang Marquis after his old feudal city of Fuyang.
A few years later, he died of illness. Emperor Xiaoyuan personally attended his funeral and gave him a particularly generous reward.
Wei Xuancheng governed the country in a harmonious and unconventional way. He was able to follow the world and be ups and downs, but some people called him flattery and opportunistic.
The fortune teller had long said that he should replace his father and inherit the title, but he lost it after he got it. Then, he wandered around again and made a comeback, reaching the rank of prime minister.
At the same time, both father and son became prime ministers. Both father and son were prime ministers, and people talked about it well at that time. Isn't this destiny?


Chunk 8: 
original: 
相工其先知之。
韦丞相卒，御史大夫匡衡代。
丞相匡衡者，东海人也。
好读书，从博士受诗。
家贫，衡佣作以给食饮。
才下，数射策不中，至九，乃中丙科。
其经以不中科故明习。
补平原文学卒史。
数年，郡不尊敬。
御史徵之，以补百石属荐为郎，而补博士，拜为太子少傅，而事孝元帝。
孝元好诗，而迁为光禄勋，居殿中为师，授教左右，而县官坐其旁听，甚善之，日以尊贵。
御史大夫郑弘坐事免，而匡君为御史大夫。
岁馀，韦丞相死，匡君代为丞相，封乐安侯。
以十年之间，不出长安城门而至丞相，岂非遇时而命也哉！
太史公曰：深惟士之游宦所以至封侯者，微甚。
然多至御史大夫即去者。
诸为大夫而丞相次也，其心冀幸丞相物故也。
或乃阴私相毁害，欲代之。
然守之日久不得，或为之日少而得之，至於封侯，真命也夫！
御史大夫郑君守之数年不得，匡君居之未满岁，而韦丞相死，即代之矣，岂可以智巧得哉！
多有贤圣之才，困戹不得者众甚也。
translation: 
The person meeting you knew in advance that something like this would happen.
After the death of Prime Minister Wei, Kuang Heng, the imperial censor, took over his position.
Prime Minister Kuang Heng was from Donghai.
He loves reading and once studied the Book of Songs with a doctor.
Because his family was poor, he had to work for others to make ends meet.
His talent was low and he took the court's talent selection exam many times, but failed. He only managed to pass the C-level exam at the ninth time.
As for the scriptures, he was very familiar with them because he failed many examinations.
Later, he became a candidate for Pingyuan County Literature and History.
After several years, no one in the county respected him.
At this time, the imperial censor summoned him to Beijing, and as a candidate for the Baishi official, he was recommended as a Langguan, a supplementary doctor, and was worshiped as the prince's young master to serve Emperor Xiaoyuan.
Emperor Xiaoyuan liked the Book of Songs, so he promoted Kuang Heng to the rank of Guang Luxun, and asked him to serve as a teacher in the palace, teaching the emperor's courtiers. The emperor also sat next to him and listened to the lectures, and admired him very much. Therefore, his status became more and more noble day by day.
Zheng Hong, the imperial censor, was dismissed from office for breaking the law, and Mr. Kuang Heng succeeded him as the censor.
More than a year later, Prime Minister Wei Xuancheng passed away, and Mr. Kuang succeeded him as Prime Minister and was named Marquis of Le'an.
In ten years, he rose to the rank of prime minister without leaving the city gate of Chang'an. Isn't this a good opportunity and destiny?
Tai Shigong said: I have thought over and over again that scholars travel all over the world in order to obtain high-ranking officials and generous salaries, but there are too few people who can get the title of marquis!
Most people will step down after reaching the position of imperial censor.
These people have already become censors and are one step away from the position of prime minister. They hope in their hearts that the prime minister will die immediately so that they can take his place.
There are also people who engage in conspiracy and conspiracy, secretly slandering and slandering, hoping to gain power.
But some people wait for a long time but don't get it; while some people don't wait long and get promoted to the throne and are named princes: this may be really destiny!
Mr. Zheng, the imperial censor, waited for many years and did not get the position, but Mr. Kuang served as the imperial censor for less than a year. Prime Minister Wei died and he was replaced immediately. Could this position be obtained by cleverness?
And those who have the talents of saints and sages have been in poverty for many years without being used. This is really too many!


