Chunk 0: 
original: 
传曰： 齐之以礼，有耻且格。
刑之不可犯，不若礼之不可逾，则昊岁比于牺年，宜有降矣。
若夫穹圆肇判，宵貌攸分，流形播其喜怒，禀气彰其善恶，则有自然之理焉。
念室后刑，衢樽先惠，将以屏除灾害，引导休和，取譬琴瑟，不忘衔策，拟阳秋之成化，若尧舜之为心也。
郊原布肃，轩皇有辔野之师；雷电扬威，高辛有触山之务。
陈乎兵甲而肆诸市朝，具严天刑，以惩乱首，论其本意，盖有不得已而用之者焉。
是以丹浦兴仁，羽山咸服。
而世属侥幸，事关攸蠹，政失礼微，狱成刑起，则孔子曰： 听讼吾犹人也，必也使无讼乎！
translation: 
Legend: If you govern the world with etiquette, people will have integrity and correct their mistakes.
It is better to prevent the people from violating the criminal law than to prevent the people from violating the etiquette and law. In this way, the era of Emperor Wu should be said to be inferior to the era of the Fuxi clan.
As for when the heaven and earth were first formed, all things moved and changed their shapes to show their joy, anger, sorrow, and joy, and they received the energy of the heaven and earth to show their good and evil. This contains natural principles.
Prison sentences are looked down upon, and benevolent policies are implemented first to eliminate disasters and make the people feel comfortable and harmonious, just like the harp and harp, not forgetting the principles, just like the Spring and Autumn Period transformed into all things, like Yao and Shun influencing the people's hearts.
They set up battle formations in the countryside, and Emperor Xuan had his troops in the field; they displayed their power like thunder and lightning. This was the Gaoxin family's rage against Mount Buzhou.
Setting up a formation to kill the enemy on the battlefield and killing criminals and displaying them in public in the city are all serious punishments from heaven to punish those who led the rebellion. Inferring their original intention, they probably had to do it as a last resort.
Therefore, benevolent and righteous teachers were raised in Danpu, and all the Yushan area surrendered.
However, the people of the world are taking chances, things are corrupt, state affairs are in chaos, ethics are declining, and lawsuits and punishments are constantly appearing. So Confucius said: When it comes to hearing lawsuits, I am no different than others. I must completely eliminate the incidents of lawsuits!


Chunk 1: 
original: 
及周氏龚行，却收锋刃，祖述生成，宪章尧禹，政有膏露，威兼礼乐，或观辞以明其趣，或倾耳以照其微，或彰善以激其情，或除恶以崇其本。
至夫取威定霸，一匡九合，寓言成康，不由凝网，此所谓酌其遗美，而爱民治国者焉。
若乃化蔑彝伦，道睽明慎，则夏癸之虔刘百姓，商辛之毒四海，卫鞅之无所自容，韩非之不胜其虐，与夫《甘棠》流咏，未或同归。
秦文初造参夷，始皇加之抽协，囹圄如市，悲哀盈路。
汉王以三章之法以吊之，文帝以刑厝之道以临之，于时百姓欣然，将逢交泰。
而犴逐情迁，科随意往，献琼杯于阙下，徙青衣于蜀路，覆醢裁刑，倾宗致狱。
况乃数囚于京兆之夜，五日于长安之市，北阙相引、中都继及者，亦往往而有焉。
translation: 
In the Zhou Dynasty, they respectfully fulfilled the mandate of heaven, collected all kinds of weapons, followed the principles of nature in nurturing the people, imitated the practices of Yao and Yu, and exercised benevolence in governing the country. There was etiquette and music in the authority. Sometimes it was through observing the words to clarify the meaning, sometimes by listening carefully to the words to see the meaning behind the words, sometimes by highlighting the good deeds to stimulate the true feelings, and sometimes by eradicating the evil deeds to promote the root.
As for using power to determine hegemony, putting the world on the right track, and using the events of King Cheng and King Kang to express his thoughts, he did not follow the inherent principles and cultivated the so-called good deeds of discretionary use to love the people and govern the country.
As for corrupting ethics and acting contrary to prudence, Xia Gui harmed the people, Shang Xin harmed the world, Wei Yang had no place to live, and Han Fei's tyranny was unbearable. It was not consistent with what was sung in the poem "Gantang".
Qin Wen originally invented the torture method to punish the three tribes, and Qin Shihuang added the method of beating and threatening. There were as many people in the prison as in the market, and the roads were full of sad people.
Liu Bang, the king of Han, made a three-chapter agreement with the people in Guanzhong to appease them. Emperor Wen of Han ruled with punishment, so the people were happy and felt good luck.
But the prison changed as his mind changed, and the laws changed as his mind changed. He was forced to hand over the jade cup under the palace gate, and the queen and concubines also walked on the road to escape. They were as sad as Wang Yu when he poured out the meat sauce. He was punished and the whole clan was imprisoned.
What's more, he was imprisoned in Jingzhao many times at night and paraded in the shops of Chang'an for five days. It was not uncommon for prisoners in front of the court to follow one after another, and prisoners from the capital to arrive one after another.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
而将亡之国，典刑咸弃，刊章以急其宪，适意以宽其网，桓灵之季，不其然欤！
魏明帝时，宫室盛兴，而期会迫急，有稽限者，帝亲召问，言犹在口，身首已分。
王肃抗疏曰： 陛下之所行刑，皆宜死之人也。
然众庶不知，将为仓卒，愿陛下下之于吏而暴其罪。
均其死也，不污宫掖，不为搢绅惊惋，不为远近所疑。
人命至重，难生易杀，气绝而不续者也，是以圣王重之。
孟轲云： 杀一不辜而取天下者，仁者不为也。
世祖武皇帝接三统之微，酌千年之范，乃命有司，大明刑宪。
于时诏书颁新法于天下，海内同轨，人甚安之。
translation: 
In a country that is about to perish, all criminal laws are abandoned, laws and regulations are trimmed to meet the urgent needs of laws, and law enforcement is relaxed to suit suitability. Isn't that what happened in the last days like Emperor Nirvana and Emperor Mo Ling?
During the reign of Emperor Meng Ming, palaces were being built on a large scale, but the administrative orders were very strict. If some people exceeded the prescribed time limit, the emperor personally summoned those people for interrogation. Before those people could finish speaking, their heads had already moved.
Wang Su Shangshu wrote: The people your Majesty killed according to punishment were all those who deserved to die.
However, if the people do not understand the situation, they may rebel. I hope that your Majesty will hand those prisoners over to the officials and declare their crimes.
In this way, the prisoner will still be executed, but it will not stain the palace, will not arouse the panic and regret of the officials, and will not arouse doubts among people near and far.
Human life is the most important. It is easy to kill but difficult to survive. Once the breath is gone, it will never be revived. Therefore, saints attach great importance to this kind of thing.
Yu Ke said: Killing an innocent person and seizing the world is not something a benevolent person would do.
Emperor Shi Zuwu inherited the wonderful method of the Three Unifications and adopted the ancient criminal law, so he ordered relevant officials to formulate laws.
At that time, an edict was issued to promulgate new laws nationwide, the country unified the laws, and the people felt very comfortable.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
条纲虽设，称为简惠，仰昭天眷，下济民心，道有法而无败，德俟刑而久立。
及晋图南徙，百有二年，仰止前规，挹其流润，江左无外，蛮陬来格。
孝武时，会稽王道子倾弄朝权，其所树之党，货官私狱，烈祖惛迷，不闻司败，晋之纲纪大乱焉。
传曰 三皇设言而民不违，五帝画象而民知禁 ，则《书》所谓 象以典刑，流宥五刑，鞭作官刑，扑作教刑 者也。
然则犯黥者皁其巾，犯劓者丹其服，犯膑者墨其体，犯宫者杂其屡，大辟之罪，殊刑之极，布其衣裾而无领缘，投之于市，与众弃之。
舜命皋陶曰； 五刑有服，五服三就，五流有宅，五宅三居。
translation: 
Although the promulgated laws are divided into articles, people say that they are concise and practical. They show the emperor's love for the upper side and save the people's hearts for the lower side. Tao will not decline because of the law, and morality will be established for a long time because of the punishment.
After the Jin Dynasty planned to move south, for one hundred and two years, they yearned for the old laws and took advantage of Liubu's blessings. Jiangzuo was no exception, and ethnic minorities from far away came to submit.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, Sima Daozi, the king of Kuaiji, controlled the government. The gangsters he cultivated sold the palace and set up prisons privately.
Legend has it that the people did not violate the regulations after the three emperors made them, and the five emperors carved images of punishments and the people knew the prohibitions. This is exactly what the "Book" said about depicting five commonly used punishments on utensils. Those who committed the five punishments were forgiven by exile, whipping was used as punishment for officials, and beating with wooden sticks was used as punishment in schools.
In this way, the person who committed the crime should be tattooed would have his turban dyed black, the person who was tortured would be dyed his clothes red, the person who was tortured would be dyed his feet black, and the person who was sentenced to castration would have his shoes different. The most serious punishment would be for a capital crime. Use cloth as a garment without a collar, throw him into the market, and everyone would despise him.
Shun ordered Gao Tao to say: Each of the five types of punishments will be punished according to his crime, and the five types of punishments will be executed in the wilderness, the city, and the court.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
方乎前载，事既参倍。夏后氏之王天下也，则五刑之属三千。
殷因于夏，有所损益。
周人以三典刑邦国，以五听察民情，左嘉右肺，事均熔造，而五刑之属犹有二千五百焉。
乃置三刺、三宥、三赦之法：一刺曰讯群臣，再刺曰讯群吏，三刺曰讯万民；一宥曰不识，再宥曰过失，三宥曰遗忘；一赦曰幼弱，再赦曰老旄，三赦曰蠢愚。
《司马法》：或起甲兵以征不义，废贡职则讨，不朝会则诛，乱嫡庶则絷，变礼刑则放。
传曰： 殷周之质，不胜其文。
及昭后徂征，穆王斯耄，爰制刑辟，以诘四方，奸宄弘多，乱离斯永，则所谓 夏有乱政而作《禹刑》，商有乱政而作《汤刑》，周有乱政而作《九刑》 者也。
古者大刑用甲兵，中刑用刀锯，薄刑用鞭扑。
translation: 
Those who were found guilty of five crimes were given a lenient sentence of exile in their respective places, and were exiled to three places far and near. Compared with the previous generation, the punishment has been tripled. When the Xiahou family ruled the world, there were a total of three thousand types of five punishments.
The Yin Dynasty followed the Xia Dynasty's criminal law, but with some additions and decreases.
The Zhou Dynasty used three types of criminal laws, namely light, medium and severe, to govern the country. It also used the five types of punishments, i.e. listening, color listening, gas listening, ear listening and visual listening, to understand the people's sentiments. There was a Jia stone on the left side of the door and a lung stone on the right side. Everything was carefully studied, but there were still 2,500 types of five punishments.
So the law of three thorns, three pardons, and three pardons was established: the first pardon is to ask the officials, the second pardon is to ask the officials, and the third pardon is to ask the people; the first pardon is to forgive the understanding, the second pardon is to forgive the fault, the third pardon is to forgive the forgetful; the first pardon is to forgive the young, the second pardon is to forgive the old, and the third pardon is to forgive the stupid.
"Sima Fa" said: Sometimes an army is raised to conquer unjust people. Those who do not contribute will be punished. Those who do not come to see the monarch will be killed. Those who disturb the order of concubines will be imprisoned. Those who change the etiquette and criminal laws will be exiled.
Legend: The Yin Dynasty and the Zhou Dynasty were more simple than literary.
When Empress Zhao went to conquer, King Mu became confused, so he began to formulate criminal laws to govern the world. There were many people who did evil, and chaos always appeared, which is called the "Yu Punishment" when there was chaos in Xia's government, the "Tang Punishment" when there was chaos, and the "Nine Punishments" when there was inherent chaos.
In ancient times, weapons were used for severe punishments, knives and saws for intermediate punishments, and whips for light punishments.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
自兹厥后，狙诈弥繁。
武皇帝并以为往宪犹疑，不可经国，乃命车骑将军、守尚书令、鲁公征求英俊，刊律定篇云尔。
汉自王莽篡位之后，旧章不存。
光武中兴，留心庶狱，常临朝听讼，躬决疑事。
是时承离乱之后，法网弛纵，罪名既轻，无以惩肃。
梁统乃上疏曰：
臣窃见元帝初元五年，轻殊刑三十四事，哀帝建平元年尽四年，轻殊死者刑八十一事，其四十二事，手杀人皆减死罪一等，著为常法。
自是以后，人轻犯法，吏易杀人，吏民俱失，至于不羁。
臣愚以为刑罚不苟务轻，务其中也。
君人之道，仁义为主，仁者爱人，义者理务。
爱人故当为除害，理务亦当为去乱。
translation: 
From then on, the deceitfulness increased.
Wu Huanghu also believed that the previous laws were suspicious and could not be used to govern the country, so he ordered the generals of chariots and cavalry, the guardian of the book, and the Duke of Lu to summon the elite and publish the laws.
Since Wang Mang usurped the throne in the Han Dynasty, the original rules and regulations no longer existed.
After Emperor Guangwu Zhongxing, he paid attention to various litigation matters. He often heard lawsuits when he went to court and personally adjudicated suspicious matters.
At that time, just after the Li Rebellion, the criminal law was relaxed, the crimes of prisoners were light, and there was no way to punish the criminals.
Liang Tong then wrote:
I have seen thirty-four laws that mitigated the penalty of beheading in the first year of Emperor Ai's reign in the first year of Yuan Dynasty. From the first year to the fourth year of Jianping of Emperor Ai, there were a total of eighty-one laws that mitigated the penalty of beheading. Among them, forty-two of them stated that those who killed someone with their own hands would be commuted to the death penalty. This has been marked as a regular law.
From then on, the common people regarded crime as a trivial matter, and the officials regarded murder as a normal thing. Both the officials and the people acted inappropriately, resulting in a loss of restraint.
I believe that punishment should not be arbitrarily lenient, but must be appropriate.
The way to govern the people is to focus on benevolence and righteousness. The benevolent love others, and the righteous manage affairs.
If you love others, you should eliminate harm for them, and if you manage affairs, you should eliminate chaos.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
是以五帝有流殛放杀之诛，三王有大辟刻肌之刑，所以为除残去乱也。
故孔子称 仁者必有勇 ，又曰 理财正辞，禁人为非曰义 。高帝受命，制约令，定法律，传之后世，可常施行。
文帝宽惠温克，遭世康平，因时施恩，省去肉刑，除相坐之法，他皆率由旧章，天下几致升平。
武帝值中国隆盛，财力有余，出兵命将，征伐远方，军役数兴，百姓罢弊，豪杰犯禁，奸吏弄法，故设遁匿之科，著知纵之律。
宣帝聪明正直，履道握要，以御海内，臣下奉宪，不失绳墨。
元帝法律，少所改更，天下称安。
孝成、孝哀，承平继体，即位日浅，听断尚寡。
丞相王嘉等猥以数年之间，亏除先帝旧约，穿令断律，凡百余事，或不便于政，或不厌人心。
臣谨表取其尤妨政事、害善良者，傅奏如左。
伏惟陛下苞五常，履九德，推时拨乱，博施济时，而反因循季世末节，衰微轨迹，诚非所以还初反本，据元更始也。
愿陛下宣诏有司，悉举初元、建平之所穿凿，考其轻重，察其化俗，足以知政教所处，择其善者而从之，其不善者而改之，定不易之典，施之无穷，天下幸甚。
translation: 
Therefore, the Five Emperors had punishments such as exile and execution, and the Three Kings had punishments such as Dapi and Keji. Their purpose was to eliminate tyranny and chaos.
Therefore, Confucius said that benevolent people must have courage, and he also said that when managing property, it is necessary to be honest and blind, and prohibiting people from doing evil is called righteousness. After Emperor Gao ascended the throne, he formulated covenants and laws and passed them on to future generations so that they could be implemented regularly.
Emperor Wen was generous, benevolent, self-sustaining, and worthy of the Kang Ping Dynasty. He followed the current situation and bestowed favors on the people, reduced corporal punishment, and except for the criminal law of sitting, all other laws followed the original regulations, and the world reached peace.
At the time of Emperor Wu, the Central Plains was prosperous and had sufficient financial resources. He mobilized troops and generals to conquer distant enemies. Military service was called for many times. The people were weak and exhausted. He was bold and let the chivalrous people violate the prohibitions. The cunning officials played with the law and deliberately established evasive rules and indulgent laws.
Emperor Xuan was smart and upright, followed the right path and mastered the essentials to rule the country. His ministers followed the laws without losing their standards.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, some laws were slightly changed, and the world was peaceful.
Emperor Xiaocheng and Emperor Xiaoai inherited the throne from Taiping. Their reigns were short, and they did not have much time to hear lawsuits and verdicts.
Prime Minister Wang Jia and others have been working on it for several years, derogating the original decrees of the late emperor and interpreting the law in a far-fetched way. There are more than 100 cases in total, some of which are detrimental to governance, and some of which cannot satisfy the people.
I would like to list the things that particularly hinder political affairs and endanger good people. I would like to report them as follows.
I hope that Your Majesty will possess the five permanent members, fulfill the nine virtues, adapt to the current affairs and bring order to the chaos, and extend grace to relieve the difficulties. However, following the details of the end of the world and the trajectory of decline is really not a return to the original practice of returning to the fundamentals and relying on changing the old and replacing the old with the new.
I hope that your Majesty will order the relevant officials to cite all the details of the Chu Yuan and Jianping years, and examine their pros and cons and enlightenment customs, so that they can understand the situation of politics and religion, choose the good ones to adopt, choose the bad ones to correct, formulate laws that cannot be changed, and implement them for thousands of generations. Then this will be the luck of the world.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
事下三公、廷尉议，以为隆刑峻法，非明王急务，不可开许。
统复上言曰： 有司猥以臣所上不可施行。
今臣所言，非曰严刑。
窃谓高帝以后，至于宣帝，其所施行，考合经传，此方今事，非隆刑峻法。
不胜至愿，愿得召见，若对尚书近臣，口陈其意。
帝令尚书问状，统又对，极言政刑宜改。
议竟不从。
及明帝即位，常临听讼观录洛阳诸狱。
帝性既明察，能得下奸，故尚书奏决罚近于苛碎。
至章帝时，尚书陈宠上疏曰： 先王之政，赏不僭，刑不滥，与其不得已，宁僭不滥。
故唐尧著典曰 流宥五刑，眚灾肆赦 。帝舜命皋陶以 五宅三居，惟明克允 。文王重《易》六爻，而列丛棘之听；周公作《立政》，戒成王勿误乎庶狱。
陛下即位，率由此义，而有司执事，未悉奉承。
translation: 
The emperor submitted Liang Tong's opinions to Sangong and Tingwei for discussion. They all believed that harsh punishments were not something that a wise king urgently needed to deal with, and they could not agree.
Liang Tong wrote again: The relevant officials believe that the opinions submitted by the ministers cannot be implemented.
What I am saying now is not severe punishment.
I think that the criminal laws implemented after Emperor Gao until Emperor Xuan, based on a comprehensive study of scriptures and biographies, are not severe punishments compared with today's events.
My greatest wish is to be summoned to state my opinions personally, just like when answering ministers and ministers.
The emperor ordered the minister to ask for his opinion, and Liang Tong responded with the same opinion, saying that government and punishment should be reformed.
His opinion was ultimately not adopted.
When Emperor Ming ascended the throne, he often went to the Litigation Watch to screen various lawsuits in Luoyang.
Emperor Ming was perceptive by nature and could learn about the evil and evil situations below, so he submitted a memorial to the minister and ruled that the punishment was severe and cumbersome.
At the time of Emperor Zhang, Shangshu Chen Chong wrote: According to the previous king's decree, rewards should not be excessive and punishments should not be excessive. Rather than being forced to do so, it is better to reward excessively than to punish excessively.
Therefore, Tang Yao wrote a book to forgive those who had committed the five punishments by means of exile. They could be suspended or pardoned for causing disasters due to their faults. Emperor Shun ordered Gao Tao to banish those who were sentenced to five punishments to three different places, far and near, in a strict and appropriate manner.
After His Majesty ascended the throne, he followed these guiding principles, but the relevant officials did not fully adhere to them in their work.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
断狱者急于榜格酷烈之痛，执宪者繁于诈欺放滥之文，违本离实，棰楚为奸，或因公行私，以逞威福。
夫为政也，犹张琴瑟，大弦急者小弦绝，故子贡非臧孙之猛法，而美郑侨之仁政。
方今圣德充塞，假于上下，宜因此时，隆先圣之务，荡涤烦苛，轻薄棰楚，以济群生，广至德也。
帝纳宠言，决罪行刑，务于宽厚。
其后遂诏有司，禁绝钻钅赞诸酷痛旧制，解祅恶之禁，除文致之请，谳五十余事，定著于令。
是后狱法和平。
永元六年，宠又代郭躬为廷尉，复校律令，刑法溢于《甫刑》者，奏除之，曰： 臣闻礼经三百，威仪三千，故《甫刑》大辟二百，五刑之属三千。
礼之所去，刑之所取，失礼即入刑，相为表里者也。
translation: 
Those who are trying the case are eager to whip the prisoner to cause severe pain, and those who enforce the law often write fraudulent and outrageous official documents, violate the facts, and rely on torture to do evil things.
Managing state affairs is like tightening the strings of a piano. If the big string is too tight, the small string will break. Therefore, Zigong criticized Zang Sun for implementing harsh laws and praised Zheng Qiao for implementing benevolent policies.
Nowadays, holy virtues are abundant and charity reaches everyone. We should take advantage of this moment to carry forward the achievements of the previous holy kings. Eliminate the tyrannical rule of the law, reduce the punishment of the rod, and use it to help all living beings and enhance virtue.
The emperor adopted Chen Chong's words and tried to be as lenient as possible when convicting and executing people.
Later, Shao ordered the relevant officials to ban the use of cobalt diamonds and other old laws that caused extreme pain, lifted the ban on evil spirits, and eliminated the situation where people were convicted of crimes through dance and literary tricks. More than 50 matters were agreed upon and clearly written in the regulations.
Since then, the order of proceedings has been stable.
In the sixth year of Yongyuan, Chen Chong succeeded Guo Gong as the court captain. He reviewed the laws and regulations again. Any criminal laws that exceeded the "Fu Xing" were petitioned to be deleted, saying: "I heard that there are three hundred kinds of rites and 3,000 details of etiquette. Therefore, the "Fu Xing" stipulates 200 kinds of capital crimes and a total of 3,000 kinds of five punishments."
What is not wanted in the rites is exactly what the punishment takes in. What is removed from the rites is returned to the punishment, which is the expression of the relationship.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
今律令，犯罪应死刑者六百一十，耐罪千六百九十八，赎罪以下二千六百八十一，溢于《甫刑》千九百八十九，其四百一十大辟，千五百耐罪，七十九赎罪。
《春秋保乾图》曰： 王者三百年一蠲法。
汉兴以来，三百二年，宪令稍增，科条无限。
又律有三家，说各驳异。
刑法繁多，宜令三公、廷尉集平律令，应经合义可施行者，大辟二百，耐罪、赎罪二千八百，合为三千，与礼相应。
其余千九百八十九事，悉可详除。
使百姓改易视听，以成大化，致刑措之美，传之无穷。
未及施行，会宠抵罪，遂寝。
宠子忠。
忠后复为尚书，略依宠意，奏上三十三条，为《决事比》，以省请谳之弊。
translation: 
According to the current laws, there are 610 types of crimes that should be punished by death, 1,698 types of tolerable crimes, and 2,681 types of atonements. This is 1,989 more than the "Fuxing", including 410 more types of capital crimes, 1,500 more types of tolerable crimes, and 79 more types of atonements.
"Chun Qiu Bao Qian Yuan" said: The emperor reduced the criminal law once every three hundred years.
Since the establishment of the Han Dynasty, it has gone through 302 years. The number of laws and regulations has gradually increased, and the regulations are endless.
Moreover, there are three versions of the law, each of which has a different version.
There are many kinds of criminal laws. The three princes and court officials should be ordered to unify the laws and regulations, and they should be implemented according to the scriptures. There are 200 kinds of capital crimes, 2800 kinds of punishment and atonement, a total of 3000 kinds, and the ceremonies are corresponding.
The remaining one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine items can all be deleted.
It is necessary to change the people's views so as to achieve far-reaching and profound enlightenment, reach a beautiful state where no one breaks the law, and spread it endlessly.
Before these suggestions could be implemented, Chen Chong happened to be acquitted, so the suggestions fell into silence.
Chen Chong's son is Chen Zhong.
Chen Zhong later became a minister. Roughly according to Chen Chong's wishes, he wrote thirty-three more articles and wrote "Decision Bi" to eliminate the disadvantages of discussing crimes.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
又上除蚕室刑，解赃吏三世禁锢，狂易杀人得减重论，母子兄弟相代死听赦所代者，事皆施行。
虽时有蠲革，而旧律繁芜，未经纂集。
献帝建安元年，应劭又删定律令，以为《汉议》，表奏之曰： 夫国之大事，莫尚载籍。
载籍也者，决嫌疑，明是非，赏刑之宜，允执厥中，俾后之人永有鉴焉。
故胶东相董仲舒老病致仕，朝廷每有政议，数遣廷尉张汤亲至陋巷，问其得失，于是作《春秋折狱》二百三十二事，动以《经》对，言之详矣。
逆臣董卓，荡覆王室，典宪焚燎，靡有孑遗，开辟以来，莫或兹酷。
今大驾东迈，巡省许都，拔出险难，其命惟新。
臣窃不自揆，辄撰具《律本章句》、《尚书旧事》、《廷尉板令》、《决事比例》、《司徒都目》、《五曹诏书》及《春秋折狱》，凡二百五十篇，蠲去复重，为之节文。
又集《议驳》三十篇，以类相从，凡八十二事。
其见《汉书》二十五，《汉记》四，皆删叙润色，以全本体。
translation: 
Shangshu also requested that the punishment of jamboree be deleted, that the imprisonment of three generations of officials should be lifted, that those who killed violently due to mental disorders could have their crimes reduced, and that when a mother and son died for each other, the person who replaced him should be pardoned. These suggestions were all adopted and implemented.
Although they were often deleted, the original laws and regulations were complicated and had not been compiled.
In the first year of Jian'an, Emperor Xian of the Han Dynasty, Ying Shao deleted the laws and decrees and compiled them into "Han Yi". He wrote in the memorial: "The major events of the country should not be recorded in the records."
Records can determine suspicions, distinguish right from wrong, and determine the proper meaning of rewards and punishments. It is in line with the impartial and righteous way, so that people in the future can always learn from it.
Therefore, Prime Minister Dong Zhongshu resigned and returned home due to old age and illness. Whenever political affairs were discussed in the court, the court official Zhang Tang was always sent to the alley to ask Dong Zhongshu about the pros and cons. Dong Zhongshu then wrote 232 articles in "Spring and Autumn Prison", and often used "Spring and Autumn Classic" to answer questions, which was very detailed.
The rebellious minister Dong Zhuo overthrew the royal family, burned all the laws and regulations, and left nothing behind. Since the beginning of the world, nothing has been more cruel.
Now the emperor is traveling eastward, inspecting Xudu, eliminating dangers, and renewing his destiny.
The minister did not think too highly of himself, so he specially wrote "Chapter of the Law", "Old Events of Shangshu", "Tingwei Banling", "Proportions of Decisions", "Situ Dumu", "Edicts of Five Cao" and "Spring and Autumn Prison Breaking", a total of 250 chapters, with duplicates deleted and abbreviated.
It also collects thirty chapters of "Rebuttal" and organizes them according to categories, with a total of eighty-two incidents.
Among them, there are twenty-five chapters found in "Hanshu" and four chapters found in "Hanji". All of them have been deleted and polished to preserve their original appearance.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
其二十六，博采古今瑰玮之士，德义可观。
其二十七，臣所创造。
《左氏》云： 虽有姬姜，不弃憔悴；虽有丝麻，不弃菅蒯。 盖所以代匮也。
是用敢露顽才，厕于明哲之末，虽未足纲纪国体，宣洽时雍。庶几观察，增阐圣德。
惟因万机之余暇，游意省览。
献帝善之，于是旧事存焉。
是时天下将乱，百姓有土崩之势，刑罚不足以惩恶，于是名儒大才故辽东太守崔实、大司农郑玄、大鸿胪陈纪之徒，咸以为宜复行肉刑。
汉朝既不议其事，故无所用矣。
及魏武帝匡辅汉室，尚书令荀彧博访百官，复欲申之，而少府孔融议以为： 古者敦厖，善否区别，吏端刑清政简，一无过失，百姓有罪，皆自取之。
末世陵迟，风化坏乱，政挠其俗，法害其教。
故曰 上失其道，人散久矣 。
而欲绳之以古刑，投之以残弃，非所谓与时消息也。
translation: 
Twenty-six of them are worth reading about the moral behavior of extraordinary people from ancient and modern times.
Twenty-seven of them were composed by me.
"Zuo Shi" said: Even if there is a famous family like Ji Jiang, they will not abandon the poor; even if there is silk and linen, they will not abandon thatch, probably to use it as a substitute in times of shortage.
Therefore, I dare to show my stupid talents and hide myself behind wise men. Although it is not enough to govern the country, it is generally conducive to the stability of the world. I hope to review it, increase and clarify the holy virtues.
I hope that Your Majesty will pay attention to it while dealing with the complicated government affairs.
Emperor Xian thought it was very good, so the past practice was preserved.
At that time, the world was about to be in turmoil, and people who violated laws were like falling apart. Punishments were no longer enough to punish evil deeds. Therefore, a group of famous Confucian scholars, such as Cui Jian, the former governor of Liaodong, Zheng Xuan, Da Sinong, and Chen Ji, Da Hong Lu, all believed that corporal punishment should be restored.
Since the Han Dynasty did not discuss these laws, there was no place for them to be implemented.
When Emperor Wu of the Wei Dynasty assisted the Han Dynasty, Shangshu ordered Xun or to inquire extensively among the officials and planned to re-implement the ancient criminal law. However, Kong Rong, the Shaofu, believed: In ancient times, the people were honest and honest, and good and bad were clearly distinguished.
In the last days, society gradually declined, morals were corrupted, political orders disrupted folk customs, and laws hindered education.
Therefore, those in high positions do not follow the right path and their hearts have been distracted for a long time.
Now we want to use ancient criminal laws to govern the people and use discarded things to deal with the people. This is not the so-called growth and decline with the times.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
纣斮朝涉之胫，天下谓为无道。
夫九牧之地，千八百君，若各刖一人，是天下常有千八百纣也，求世休和，弗可得已。
且被刑之人，虑不念生，志在思死，类多趋恶，莫复归正。
夙沙乱齐，伊戾祸宋，赵高、英布，为世大患。
不能止人遂为非也，适足绝人还为善耳。
虽忠如鬻拳，信如卞和，智如孙膑，冤如巷伯，才如史迁，达如子政，一罹刀锯，没世不齿。
是太甲之思庸，穆公之霸秦，陈汤之都赖，魏尚之临边，无所复施也。
汉开改恶之路，凡为此也。
故明德之君，远度深惟，弃短就长，不苟革其政者也。
朝廷善之，卒不改焉。
及魏国建，陈纪子群时为御史中丞，魏武帝下令又欲复之，使群申其父论。
群深陈其便。
时钟繇为相国，亦赞成之，而奉常王脩不同其议。
translation: 
King Zhou chopped off the gallbladder of the man who waded into the river in the morning, and everyone in the world said that he was unjust.
There are a total of 1,800 kings in the land of Jiuzhou. If every king cuts off one person's foot, then there will always be 1,800 kings in the world, seeking peace in the world, which cannot be achieved.
Moreover, people who have been punished no longer want to live anymore and are obsessed with death. They probably gradually become worse and can never return to the right path.
Dansi disrupts the seal, Tanting harms Seli, and poisonous insects and stems become a major scourge to society.
It cannot stop people from doing evil in the end.
Even if he is as loyal as Turtle Saint, as honest as Master Sculpture, as resourceful as Zhu Feng, as unjust as Xiang Bo, as talented as Shi Qian, and as optimistic as Wang Wu, he will always be looked down upon by others once he is tortured by a knife.
Therefore, Taijia missed Chang Dao, and Duke Mu made Qin dominate. He quickly went to his post to rectify the situation, and guarded the borders, so he no longer imposed such punishments.
It is for this reason that Liansu opened the way to change his evil ways.
Therefore, a monarch with perfect virtue will be far-sighted, ignore the shortcomings and take advantage of the long-term, and will not dismiss political orders casually.
The court thought this opinion was very good and did not change it in the end.
When the Wei State was established, Chen Ji's son Chen Qun was appointed as the censor Zhongcheng. Emperor Wu of Wei ordered that he wanted to resume corporal punishment again and asked Chen Qun to express his father's views.
Sudeng vigorously stated the benefits of reinstating corporal punishment.
At that time, Zhong Xun was appointed as the Prime Minister and he also agreed with the idea of ​​​​helping Cheng. However, Feng Chang Wang Kai did not agree with this view.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
魏武帝亦难以籓国改汉朝之制，遂寝不行。
于是乃定甲子科，犯釱左右趾者易以木械，是时乏铁，故易以木焉。
又嫌汉律太重，故令依律论者听得科半，使从半减也。
魏文帝受禅，又议肉刑。
详议未定，会有军事，复寝。
时有大女刘硃，挝子妇酷暴，前后三妇自杀，论硃减死输作尚方，因是下怨毒杀人减死之令。
魏明帝改士庶罚金之令，男听以罚金，妇人加笞还从鞭督之例，以其形体裸露故也。
是时承用秦汉旧律，其文起自魏文侯师李悝。
悝撰次诸国法，著《法经》。
以为王者之政，莫急于盗贼，故其律始于《盗贼》。
盗贼须劾捕，故著《网捕》二篇。
translation: 
It was difficult for Emperor Wu of Wei to change the system of plastic eyes with just one vassal state, so this suggestion was shelved and not implemented.
So the Jiazike was enacted, and those who committed the crime of clamping the left and right toes were replaced with wooden torture instruments. There was a lack of iron at the time, so wood was used instead.
He also thought that the criminal laws of the Han Dynasty were too severe, so he ordered that all sentences punished according to the laws could be reduced by half, so that criminals could be sentenced to half the sentence.
After Emperor Wen of Wei was ordered to do so, he discussed the issue of corporal punishment.
There was no result after careful discussion, but when there was a war, they stopped again.
At that time, the eldest daughter Liu Zhu tortured her daughter-in-law very cruelly, and three of her daughters-in-law committed suicide. Liu Zhu was sentenced to commuted death penalty and sent to Shang Fang to be imprisoned. Therefore, an order was issued to commute the death penalty for vicious murders.
Emperor Wei Ming changed the law on fines for scholars and common people. Male prisoners were fined, and women were whipped. They were punished according to the rules of whipping because she was naked.
At that time, the old criminal laws of the Qin and Han Dynasties were followed, and the text of the criminal laws was drafted by Li Kui, the teacher of Wei Wenhou.
Li Kui compiled the criminal laws of various countries and wrote the Book of Laws.
He believes that nothing is more urgent for an emperor to govern the country than to solve the problem of thieves, so his criminal code begins with "Thieves".
Thieves must be exposed and arrested, so he wrote two chapters, "Net" and "Catch".


Chunk 14: 
original: 
其轻狡、越城、博戏、借假不廉、淫侈逾制以为《杂律》一篇，又以《具律》具其加减。
是故所著六篇而已，然皆罪名之制也。
商君受之以相秦。
汉承秦制，萧何定律，除参夷连坐之罪，增部主见知之条，益事律《兴》、《厩》、《户》三篇，合为九篇。
叔孙通益律所不及，傍章十八篇。张汤《越宫律》二十七篇。赵禹《朝律》六篇。合六十篇。
又汉时决事，集为《令甲》以下三百余篇，及司徒鲍公撰嫁娶辞讼决为《法比都目》，凡九百六卷。
世有增损，率皆集类为篇，结事为章。
一章之中或事过数十，事类虽同，轻重乖异。
而通条连句，上下相蒙，虽大体异篇，实相采入。
《盗律》有贼伤之例，《贼律》有盗章之文，《兴律》有上狱之法，《厩律》有逮捕之事，若此之比，错糅无常。
后人生意，各为章句。
叔孙宣、郭令卿、马融、郑玄诸儒章句十有余家，家数十万言。
凡断罪所当由用者，合二万六千二百七十二条，七百七十三万二千二百余言，言数益繁，览者益难。
天子于是下诏，但用郑氏章句，不得杂用余家。
translation: 
Problems such as frivolousness, overrunning the city, playing games, using false pretense, extravagance, and excess were written into a "Miscellaneous Code", and "Gu Code" was used to list the added or subtracted items.
Therefore, there are only six articles written, but they are all about criminal laws.
After Lord Shang learned it, he used it to assist Qin.
The Han Dynasty followed the old system of the Qin Dynasty. Xiao He determined the laws and regulations, deleted the crime of participating in barbarians and sitting together, added the regulations of the leader's knowledge, and added three chapters of "Xing", "Station" and "Hu" in the laws of affairs, making it nine chapters.
Shusun Tong added what could not be included in the old criminal code, including 18 chapters in Bianzhang, 27 chapters in Zhang Tang's "Yue Gong Code", and six chapters in Zhao Yu's "Chao Code", totaling 60 chapters.
It also compiled more than 300 chapters of prison lawsuits in the Han Dynasty into "Ling Jia", and the marriage lawsuits written by Situ Baogong were identified as "Fa Bidu Mu", totaling 906 volumes.
Each dynasty has additions and subtractions, all of which combine similar articles into chapters and organize relevant regulations into chapters.
There are more than dozens of laws and decrees in one chapter. Although the types of things are the same, the severity of the sentences is different.
The entire wording and sentence construction are consistent with each other. Although it does not appear to be the same article overall, it is actually adopted from the previous one.
The "Thieves Code" has regulations on thieves' injuries, the "Thieves Code" has the language of stealing seals, the "Xing Code" has laws about imprisonment, the "Station Code" has arrests, and so on, there is no standard for mixing.
Later generations used their literary creativity to write their own chapters and sentences.
There are more than ten chapters written by Confucian scholars such as Shusun Xuan, Guo Lingqing, Ma Rong, and Zheng Xuan, each with hundreds of thousands of words.
There are a total of 26,272 rules that should be followed when judging a crime. There are more than 7,732,200 words, and there are more and more words, making it increasingly difficult for readers to read.
The emperor then went to Shao and only used Zheng's chapters and sentences, and was not allowed to use anyone else's.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
卫觊又奏曰： 刑法者，国家之所贵重，而私议之所轻贱；狱吏者，百姓之所悬命，而选用者之所卑下。
王政之弊，未必不由此也。
请置律博士，转相教授。
事遂施行。
然而律文烦广，事比众多，离本依末，决狱之吏如廷尉狱吏范洪受囚绢二丈，附轻法论之，狱吏刘象受属偏考囚张茂物故，附重法论之。
洪、象虽皆弃市，而轻枉者相继。
是时太傅钟繇又上疏求复肉刑，诏下其奏，司徒王朗议又不同。
时议者百余人，与朗同者多。
帝以吴蜀未平，又寝。
其后，天子又下诏改定刑制，命司空陈群、散骑常侍刘邵、给事黄门侍郎韩逊、议郎庾嶷、中郎黄休、荀诜等删约旧科，傍采汉律，定为魏法，制《新律》十八篇，《州郡令》四十五篇，《尚书官令》、《军中令》，合百八十余篇。
其序略曰：
旧律所难知者，由于六篇篇少故也。
translation: 
Wei Jian again reported: The state attaches great importance to criminal law, but people despise it in private evaluation; jailers are the people who entrust their lives, but those who choose them despise them.
The shortcomings of the royal government may not be due to this reason.
Request the establishment of Doctors of Law to teach students batch by batch.
This opinion will be implemented soon.
However, there are many texts in the criminal law and a large number of examples, so the officials who cut off the prison were willing to give up the basics. For example, the jailer Fan Hong of Tingwei accepted the prisoner's silk cloth for two feet, so he was punished with a light punishment.
Although Fan Hong and Liu Xiang were both executed, one after another was given a lighter sentence or was wrongfully convicted.
At that time, Taifu Zhongyao went to Shu to request the restoration of corporal punishment. The emperor ordered that this opinion be handed over to his subordinates for discussion, but Situ Wanglang had a different opinion.
There were more than a hundred people discussing it at that time, and most of them had the same opinions as Wang Lang.
The emperor suppressed the matter again on the grounds that Wu and Shu had not yet been pacified.
Later, the emperor ordered the criminal law to be changed, and ordered Si Kong Chen Qun, Sanqi Changshi Liu Shao, Huangmen Shilang Han Xun, Yilang Yuyi, Zhonglang Huang Xiu, Xun Shuo, etc. to delete the old laws, extensively adopt the laws and regulations of the Han Dynasty, and formulate the Wei Code. He created 18 chapters of "New Code", 45 chapters of "Prefecture and County Orders", "Official Orders of Shangshu" and "Orders of the Army", totaling more than 180 articles.
Their preface states roughly:
The reason why the previous laws and regulations were difficult to understand was because the six chapters were short.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
篇少则文荒，文荒则事寡，事寡则罪漏。
是以后人稍增，更与本体相离。
今制新律，宜都总事类，多其篇条。
旧律因秦《法经》，就增三篇，而《具律》不移，因在第六。
罪条例既不在始，又不在终，非篇章之义。
故集罪例以为《刑名》，冠于律首。
《盗律》有劫略、恐猲、和卖买人，科有持质，皆非盗事，故分以为《劫略律》。
《贼律》有欺谩、诈伪、逾封、矫制、《囚律》有诈伪生死，《令丙》有诈自复免，事类众多，故分为《诈律》。
《贼律》有贼伐树木、杀伤人畜产及诸亡印，《金布律》有毁伤亡失县官财物，故分为《毁亡律》。
《囚律》有告劾、传覆，《厩律》有告反逮受，科有登闻道辞，故分为《告劾律》。
translation: 
If there are fewer articles, there will be fewer words. If there are less words, there will be fewer categories. If there are fewer categories, crimes will be missed.
Therefore, the number of descendants gradually increased, and they became even more separated from the original body.
Now that new laws and regulations are formulated, they should cover all categories of matters and increase the length of items.
The old criminal law followed the Qin Dynasty's "Dharma Classic", with only three additional chapters, but "Gu Lv" has not changed and is still at the sixth chapter.
The criminal regulations are neither at the beginning nor at the end, which is not the proper meaning of the chapter.
Therefore, the criminal regulations were compiled and written as "Criminal Names" and placed at the beginning of the criminal law.
"The Code of Robbery" contains robbery, fear, and selling and buying people, and there is holding of pledges in the rules, but they are not stealing, so they were separated and written as "The Code of Robbery".
"The Law of Thieves" includes cheating, cheating, over-confidence, and correction; "The Law of Prisoners" includes cheating about life and death; "Ling Bing" includes fraud and self-recovery; there are many types of things, so the "Law of Fraud" is divided.
The "Thieves' Code" contains traces of thieves cutting down trees, killing people and animals, and all kinds of escapes. The "Jinbu Code" shows the destruction and loss of county officials' property, so it is separated into the "Destruction Code".
The "Prison Code" contains accusations and accusations, and the "Station Code" contains accusations and arrests. Each subject has denunxu speeches, so it is separated into the "Act and Impeachment Code".


Chunk 17: 
original: 
《囚律》有系囚、鞫狱、断狱之法，《兴律》有上狱之事，科有考事报谳，宜别为篇，故分为《系讯》、《断狱律》。
《盗律》有受所监受财枉法，《杂律》有假借不廉，《令乙》有呵人受钱，科有使者验赂，其事相类，故分为《请赇律》。
《盗律》有勃辱强贼，《兴律》有擅兴徭役，《具律》有出卖呈，科有擅作修舍事，故分为《兴擅律》。
《兴律》有乏徭稽留，《贼律》有储峙不辨，《厩律》有乏军之兴，及旧典有奉诏不谨、不承用诏书，汉氏施行有小愆之反不如令，辄劾以不承用诏书乏军要斩，又减以《丁酉诏书》，《丁酉诏书》，汉文所下，不宜复以为法，故别为之《留律》。
秦世旧有厩置、乘传、副车、食厨，汉初承秦不改，后以费广稍省，故后汉但设骑置而无车马，则律犹著其文，则为虚设，故除《厩律》，取其可用合科者，以为《邮驿令》。
translation: 
The "Prison Code" contains the methods of tying, jailing, and breaking off prisoners, the "Xing Code" covers matters about going to prison, and the scientific regulations include reporting on matters and punishments, which should be a separate article, so it is divided into "Luxun" and "Law for Breaking Prisons."
In the "Stealing Code", there is a person who is under supervision and has violated the law, in the "Miscellaneous Code", there is a pretense and dishonest, in "Ling Yi", there is an order for someone to accept money, and in the regulations, there is an envoy to check the bribery situation. These things are similar, so they are divided into "Qingzhen Code".
The "Robbery Code" contains humiliation of strong thieves, the "Xing Code" contains the levying of corvees without authorization, the "Gu Code" contains reports of betrayal, and the regulations include the practice of repairing houses, so it is divided into the "Xingshan Code".
"Xing Lu" has a lack of corvee records, "Thieves Lu" has a reserve that is not implemented, "Stable Law" has a lack of troops and lack of enthusiasm, and in the old laws and regulations, there are some carelessness in serving Shao and not inheriting Shao's script, and Mo's implementation has minor mistakes and does not correct or obey. In order to make orders, the imperial edict was often used to cut off the army, and the "Ding You Edict" was used to reduce the crime. The "Ding You Edict" was promulgated by Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty and should no longer be used as a criminal law, so it was also used as the "Liu Lv".
The Qin Dynasty originally had stables, rides, auxiliary carriages, and food and kitchens. In the early years of the Han Dynasty, the Qin Dynasty followed the Qin Dynasty without any changes. Later, due to the excessive cost, it was gradually reduced, so the Later Han Dynasty only set up post and cavalry without carriages and horses. However, the previous text was still written on the criminal law, so it was in name only. Therefore, the "Station Code" was deleted, and those that were worthy of adoption and in compliance with the law were extracted and written into the "Post Order".


Chunk 18: 
original: 
其告反逮验，别入《告劾律》。
上言变事，以为《变事令》，以惊事告急，与《兴律》烽燧及科令者，以为《惊事律》。
《盗律》有还赃畀主，《金布律》有罚赎入责以呈黄金为价，科有平庸坐赃事，以为《偿赃律》。
律之初制，无免坐之文，张汤、赵禹始作监临部主、见知故纵之例。
其见知而故不举劾，各与同罪，失不举劾，各以赎论，其不见不知，不坐也，是以文约而例通。
科之为制，每条有违科，不觉不知，从坐之免，不复分别，而免坐繁多，宜总为免例，以省科文，故更制定其由例，以为《免坐律》。
诸律令中有其教制，本条无从坐之文者，皆从此取法也。
凡所定增十三篇，就故五篇，合十八篇，于正律九篇为增，于旁章科令为省矣。
translation: 
Those who are accused of treason and caught for examination are also included in the "Law of Accusation and Impeachment".
Those that reflect events upward are written as "Bi Shi Ling", those that report surprising events to others are written as "Lv of Shocking Events" that are consistent with the beacons and laws of "Xing Lu".
The "Law of Robbery" states that dirty things should be returned to their owners, the "Law of Gold and Purity" has a penalty for redemption and the return of gold as a reward, and the law states that ordinary people should do dirty things, so it was written as the "Law of Compensation for Internal Organs".
When the criminal law was first created, there was no provision for exemption from joint sitting. Zhang Tang and Pan Yu began to create regulations for supervising the head of the department and letting them know what they knew.
Those who saw and knew the criminals but deliberately failed to report them were all guilty of the same crime as the criminals. Those who escaped and did not report the crimes were treated as atonements. Those who did not see and knew the crimes were not considered crimes. Therefore, the provisions are simple but the regulations are grand.
In the order system, every violation of the law is unknowingly and no longer separated from the exemption from sitting together. However, there are many cases of exemption from sitting together. A general exemption regulation should be written in order to write fewer articles. Therefore, the regulations for exemption from sitting are formulated as the "Laws for Exemption from Sitting".
Each law has its own teaching system. If this article does not follow the rules, it will be adopted from this.
Thirteen chapters have been confirmed to be added. Including the original five chapters, there are a total of eighteen chapters. For the nine chapters of Zhenglu, it is regarded as an increase, but for the side chapters and laws, it is a reduction.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
改汉旧律不行于魏者皆除之，更依古义制为五刑。
其死刑有三，髡刑有四，完刑、作刑各三，赎刑十一，罚金六，杂抵罪七，凡三十七名，以为律首。
又改《贼律》，但以言语及犯宗庙园陵，谓之大逆无道，要斩，家属从坐，不及祖父母、孙。
至于谋反大逆，临时捕之，或汙潴，或枭菹，夷其三族，不在律令，所以严绝恶迹也。
贼斗杀人，以劾而亡，许依古义，听子弟得追杀之。
会赦及过误相杀，不得报仇，所以止杀害也。
正杀继母，与亲母同，防继假之隙也。
除异子之科，使父子无异财也。
欧兄姊加至五岁刑，以明教化也。
囚徒诬告人反，罪及亲属，异于善人，所以累之使省刑息诬也。
改投书弃市之科，所以轻刑也。
正篡囚弃市之罪，断凶强为义之踪也。
二岁刑以上，除以家人乞鞫之制，省所烦狱也。
translation: 
The old laws of the Han Dynasty were changed, and anything that could not be implemented in the Wei Dynasty was abolished, and five punishments were formulated based on ancient meanings.
There are three types of death penalty, four types of punishment, three types of consummation and execution, eleven types of atonement, six types of fines, and seven types of miscellaneous crimes, a total of thirty-seven types, which serve as the beginning of the law.
He also changed the "Thieves' Code" and only used words to offend the ancestral temple and the garden, which was called a treason and immorality. He was cut in half and his family members were relegated to the throne, but his grandparents and grandchildren were not involved.
As for those who conspired to commit treason, they would arrest them at the time of the incident, and some of them would be filthy, and some would be scoundrels, and the three clans would be killed. This was not written down in the laws and regulations, in order to strictly prohibit such ugly behavior.
If someone kills someone in a brutal fight and escapes because he is exposed, according to the ancient law, the deceased's sons and brothers can pursue him.
Catch pardons and manslaughter without revenge, which is used to stop killing each other.
Punishing the murder of the stepmother is the same as the crime of killing the biological mother. This is to prevent conflicts with the stepmother.
The purpose of removing the law about estranged sons is to prevent father and son from having estranged wealth.
The penalty for beating an older brother or sister was increased to five years to demonstrate enlightenment.
The prisoner falsely accuses others of treason. The crime involves relatives, which is different from the good people. This is used to embarrass the prisoner and make him reduce the punishment and stop making false accusations.
The law on surrendering letters and abandoning the market was revised to reduce the punishment.
The crime of tampering with people and abandoning the market is revised to put an end to the violent and violent behavior of doing righteous things.
The purpose of deleting the law prohibiting family members from begging for a sentence of more than two years is to reduce cumbersome prison proceedings.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
改诸郡不得自择伏日，所以齐风俗也。
斯皆魏世所改，其大略如是。
其后正始之间，天下无事，于是征西将军夏侯玄、河南尹李胜、中领军曹羲、尚书丁谧又追议肉刑，卒不能决。
其文甚多，不载。
及景帝辅政，是时魏法，犯大逆者诛及已出之女。
毋丘俭之诛，其子甸妻荀氏应坐死，其族兄顗与景帝姻，通表魏帝，以匄其命。
诏听离婚。
荀氏所生女芝，为颍川太守刘子元妻，亦坐死，以怀妊系狱。
荀氏辞诣司隶校尉何曾乞恩，求没为官婢，以赎芝命。
曾哀之，使主簿程咸上议曰： 夫司寇作典，建三等之制；甫侯修刑，通轻重之法。
叔世多变，秦立重辟，汉又修之。
大魏承秦汉之弊，未及革制，所以追戮已出之女，诚欲殄丑类之族也。
translation: 
It was modified to say that counties are not allowed to choose Furi in vain. This is to unify customs.
These were all modified by Wei Shi, and this is roughly what they look like.
During the Zhengshi period, the world was at peace, so Xia Houxuan, the general of the Western Conquest, Li Sheng of Henan Yin, Cao Xi, the central leader, and Ding Mi, the minister, pursued corporal punishment, but in the end there was no result.
There is a lot of text in it, so I won’t record it here.
When Emperor Jing assisted in state affairs, Wei Fa at that time committed crimes of treason and immorality, and had his daughters killed even after they were married.
When Qiu Jian was executed, his son's mother, Qiudian's wife Gou, should have been executed simultaneously. Her cousin Xun Zhuan was related to Emperor Jing, so she submitted a petition to Emperor Wei, asking for her life to be spared.
The emperor sentenced them to divorce.
Xun's daughter Ceqiuzhi, the wife of Liu Ziyuan, the prefect of Yingchuan, was also executed and imprisoned because she was pregnant.
Mr. Xun made a speech. How could Lieutenant Commander Sili ever ask for mercy? He asked not to be a maidservant so that he could redeem his mother Qiu Zhi's life.
Why did he take pity on her and asked the chief official Cheng Xian to write a letter saying: "Sikou revised the code and established a third-class legal system; Fuhou formulated the criminal code and stated the laws of severity."
There were many changes in the era of decline. The Qin Dynasty established severe punishments, and the Han Dynasty revised them.
The Wei Dynasty inherited the shortcomings of Qin Mo and did not have time to reform. It implemented the method of additional killing of married daughters. It was really to kill the ugly relatives.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
然则法贵得中，刑慎过制。
臣以为女人有三从之义，无自专之道，出适他族，还丧父母，降其服纪，所以明外成之节，异在室之恩。
而父母有罪，追刑已出之女；夫党见诛，又有随姓之戮。
一人之身，内外受辟。
今女既嫁，则为异姓之妻；如或产育，则为他族之母，此为元恶之所忽。
戮无辜之所重，于防则不足惩奸乱之源，于情则伤孝子之心。
男不得罪于他族，而女独婴戮于二门，非所以哀矜女弱，蠲明法制之本分也。
臣以为在室之女，从父母之诛；既醮之妇，从夫家之罚。
宜改旧科，以为永制。
于是有诏改定律令。
translation: 
In this way, the importance of the law is to be moderate, and the punishment must be careful not to exceed the system.
I believe that women have the moral obligation of three obediences and have no right to make their own decisions. If they marry into another clan and come back to attend funerals for their parents, they will lower their obedience. This is used to show the etiquette of a woman's marriage and to distinguish her kindness in the family.
If the parents are guilty, their married daughter will be punished additionally; the husband's clan will be punished, and he will be killed as well.
A person's body is punished both internally and externally.
Since a woman gets married, she becomes a wife of a different surname; if she gives birth to a child, she becomes a mother of another clan. This is something that is ignored when considering sin.
The high cost of killing innocent people is not enough to punish the source of adultery in terms of crime prevention, but it hurts the filial piety in terms of morality.
Men are not punished because of other clans, but women are killed because of two clans. Chasing is not used to pity weak women and demonstrates the appropriate approach of the legal system.
I believe that unmarried women should follow their parents and be punished; married women should follow their husband's family and be punished.
The original law should be changed and made a permanent system.
So the emperor issued an edict to change the laws and regulations.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
文帝为晋王，患前代律令本注烦杂，陈群、刘邵虽经改革，而科网本密，又叔孙、郭、马、杜诸儒章句，但取郑氏，又为偏党，未可承用。
于是令贾充定法律，令与太傅郑冲、司徒荀顗、中书监荀勖、中军将军羊祜、中护军王业、廷尉杜友、守河南尹杜预、散骑侍郎裴楷、颍川太守周雄、齐相郭颀、骑都尉成公绥、尚书郎柳轨及吏部令史荣邵等十四人典其事，就汉九章增十一篇，仍其族类，正其体号，改旧律为《刑名》、《法例》，辨《囚律》为《告劾》、《系讯》、《断狱》，分《盗律》为《请赇》、《诈伪》、《水火》、《毁亡》，因事类为《卫宫》、《违制》，撰《周官》为《诸侯律》，合二十篇，六百二十条，二万七千六百五十七言。
蠲其苛秽，存其清约，事从中典，归于益时。
其余未宜除者，若军事、田农、酤酒，未得皆从人心，权设其法，太平当除，故不入律，悉以为令。
施行制度，以此设教，违令有罪则入律。
其常事品式章程，各还其府，为故事。
减枭斩族诛从坐之条，除谋反適养母出女嫁皆不复还坐父母弃市，省禁固相告之条，去捕亡、亡没为官奴婢之制。
轻过误老少女人当罚金杖罚者，皆令半之。
重奸伯叔母之令，弃市。
淫寡女，三岁刑。
崇嫁娶之要，一以下娉为正，不理私约。
峻礼教之防，准五服以制罪也。
凡律令合二千九百二十六条，十二万六千三百言，六十卷，故事三十卷。
泰始三年，事毕，表上。
translation: 
When Emperor Wen of the Jin Dynasty was the king of Jin, he was worried about the complexity of the regulations and annotations of the previous dynasties. Although they were deleted and revised by Chen Qun and Liu Shao, the regulations were very complicated. Moreover, when Shusun, Guo, Ma, and Du Guru wrote chapters and sentences, they only followed Zheng Xuan's lineage, which was too biased and could not be used.
So he ordered Jia Chong to change the law, and ordered him to cooperate with Taifu Zheng Chong, Situ Xunjie, Zhongshu Supervisor Xunxu, Zhongjun General Yang Hu, Zhonghujun Wang Ye, Tingwei Du You, Henan Guard Yin Duyu, and Sanqi Shilang Pei Kai. Fourteen people, including Zhou Xiong, the prefect of Yingchuan, Guo Qi, the Prime Minister of Qi, Chenggong Sui of Qidu, Shangshu Langliu, and Shi Mingjing of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, were in charge of this matter. They added eleven chapters to nine chapters, followed its classification, and revised it. The style and order of arrangement were changed, and the old criminal law was changed into "criminal name" and "legislation", the "prison law" was corrected into "accusation", "examination", and "breaking the prison", and the "stealing law" was divided into "asking for help", "fraudulent", "Water and Fire" and "Destruction" are divided into "Weigong" and "Violation" according to the types of things. The "Zhou Guan" written by them is "Laws of the Princes", with a total of 21 chapters, 620 articles, and 27,657 words.
The harsh and complicated provisions were deleted, and the clean and simple ones were retained. The matters were adopted from the code, but the purpose was to be beneficial to current affairs.
The rest of the items that should not be deleted, such as military affairs, farming, and wine, cannot all comply with people's opinions. They have the right to establish laws and regulations. When the world is at peace, they will be deleted. Therefore, they are not included in the criminal law and are all regarded as laws and regulations.
When the system is implemented, education is established in this way. Anyone who violates the law and commits a crime will be punished according to the criminal law.
There is a precedent for each of the regular affairs and style regulations to be assigned to the official offices.
Delete the provisions on killing clan members and punishing subordinates. Delete the original provisions. The married daughters of the legitimate mothers and adoptive mothers will no longer be implicated in the execution of their parents for the crime of treason. The provisions prohibiting officials from informing each other are omitted. The system of arresting and killing people and becoming official slaves is deleted.
Fines and rods for minor offenses and for delaying old and young women were ordered to be reduced by half.
Aggravating the statute of rape of aunt and uncle, abandoned the market.
Whoever commits adultery against a widow shall be sentenced to three years in prison.
All marriage agreements are respected and the betrothal gift is the standard, and private agreements are not considered.
Strict etiquette and great defense, and judge crimes based on the five rules.
The total number of laws and regulations totals 2,926 articles, 126,300 words, 60 volumes, and 30 volumes of precedents.
In the third year of Taishi, the legal changes were completed and presented to the emperor.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
武帝诏曰： 昔萧何以定律令受封，叔孙通制仪为奉常，赐金五百斤，弟子百人皆为郎。
夫立功立事，古今之所重，宜加禄赏，其详考差叙。
辄如诏简异弟子百人，随才品用，赏帛万余匹。
武帝亲自临讲，使裴楷执读。
四年正月，大赦天下，乃班新律。
其后，明法掾张裴又注律，表上之，其要曰：
律始于《刑名》者，所以定罪制也；终于《诸侯》者，所以毕其政也。
王政布于上，诸侯奉于下，礼乐抚于中，故有三才之义焉，其相须而成，若一体焉。
《刑名》所以经略罪法之轻重，正加减之等差，明发众篇之多义，补其章条之不足，较举上下纲领。
其犯盗贼、诈伪、请赇者，则求罪于此，作役、水火、畜养、守备之细事，皆求之作本名。
translation: 
Emperor Wu Xia Shao said: At that time, Lu Bao was rewarded for formulating laws and regulations, and Shusun Tong was appointed as a regular official for formulating etiquette. He was rewarded with five hundred catties of gold, and all one hundred of his disciples were made men.
Meritorious service has been valued throughout the ages, and officials and officials should be rewarded in the hope of carefully examining the order of each person.
He immediately selected one hundred disciples according to the Shao Book, awarded them official positions according to their talents, and rewarded them with more than 10,000 pieces of silk.
Emperor Wu personally came to give the lecture and asked Pei to read it.
In the first month of the fourth year, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and a new law was promulgated.
Later, Zhang Pei, a magistrate of the Ming Dynasty, also commented on the criminal law and submitted it to the emperor, roughly saying:
The criminal law begins with "Xingming", which is used to determine the crime system; it ends with "Princes", which is used to fully reflect the king's politics.
The king's government is issued from above, the princes follow it below, and the rituals and music are adjusted in the middle. Therefore, there is a saying of the three talents. They complement each other and seem to be a whole.
"Criminal names" are used to stipulate the severity of crimes, revise the difference between additional crimes and reduced crimes, clarify the various principles of each chapter, supplement the deficiencies of the articles, and outline the general outline.
Anyone who commits theft, fraud, or petitioning for money will find the crime from the making of parcels. All small things such as work, water and fire, livestock, and defense will have their appropriate names determined from it.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
告讯为之心舌，捕系为之手足，断狱为之定罪，名例齐其制。
自始及终，往而不穷，变动无常，周流四极，上下无方，不离于法律之中也。
其知而犯之谓之故，意以为然谓之失，违忠欺上谓之谩，背信藏巧谓之诈，亏礼废节谓之不敬，两讼相趣谓之斗，两和相害谓之戏，无变斩击谓之贼，不意误犯谓之过失，逆节绝理谓之不道，陵上僭贵谓之恶逆，将害未发谓之戕，唱首先言谓之造意，二人对议谓之谋，制众建计谓之率，不和谓之强，攻恶谓之略，三人谓之群，取非其物谓之盗，货财之利谓之赃：凡二十者，律义之较名也。
夫律者，当慎其变，审其理。
若不承用诏书，无故失之刑，当从赎。
谋反之同伍，实不知情，当从刑。
此故失之变也。
卑与尊斗，皆为贼。
斗之加兵刃水火中，不得为戏，戏之重也。
向人室庐道径射，不得为过，失之禁也。
都城人众中走马杀人，当为贼，贼之似也。
过失似贼，戏似斗，斗而杀伤傍人，又似误，盗伤缚守似强盗，呵人取财似受赇，囚辞所连似告劾，诸勿听理似故纵，持质似恐猲。
translation: 
Accusations and trials serve as its tongue, arrests and detentions serve as its brothers, prisons serve as its convicts, and names and rules unify its system.
From the beginning to the end, it goes back and forth endlessly, changes constantly, and circulates in all directions. There are no fixed rules for up or down, and it cannot be separated from the law.
Knowing the law and breaking the law is called a crime, thinking that one is right is called a mistake, being disloyal and deceiving one's boss is called cheating, betraying one's trust and concealing tricks is called cheating, being disrespectful is called disrespect, urging two litigants to fight each other is called fighting, two friendly parties hurting each other is called drama, attacking without any change is called a thief, making an unintentional mistake is called a negligence, violating one's integrity and principles is called unethical, and deceiving one's superior is called arrogance. Being more noble is called evil treason, committing harm to others without taking action is called killing, taking the initiative first is called making plans, two people discussing together is called strategy, commanding people and proposing strategies is called rate, discord is called strong, attacking evil people is called strategy, three people are called groups, taking things that do not belong to one is called stealing, and profit from goods and wealth is called dirty: all these twenty types are the names of the laws and principles.
Amendments to criminal laws should be treated with caution and the rationale behind them should be examined.
If the edict is not accepted and there is no penalty for wrongdoing, one should obey the atonement.
The accomplices who conspired to rebel, if they really did not know the inside story, should be punished.
This is a variation on the lost.
People of low status fight with people of high status, they are both thieves.
If one uses weapons, water or fire in a fight, it cannot be regarded as a drama, it is more serious than a drama.
Shooting arrows at other people's houses or roads does not count as an encounter, it is a prohibited accident.
Those who race around and kill people in the crowd in the capital should be counted as thieves because they are similar to thieves.
Trouble is similar to thieves, play is similar to fighting, killing and wounding others during fighting is similar to public misunderstanding, stealing and injuring people's property and binding guards is similar to robbers, blaming people and taking property is similar to receiving bribes, the words of prisoners are similar to accusations, all kinds of intransigence are similar to indulgence, and taking hostages is similar to intimidation.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
如此之比，皆为无常之格也。
五刑不简，正于五罚，五罚不服，正于五过，意善功恶，以金赎之。
故律制，生罪不过十四等，死刑不过三，徒加不过六，囚加不过五，累作不过十一岁，累笞不过千二百，刑等不过一岁，金等不过四两。
月赎不计日，日作不拘月，岁数不疑闰。
不以加至死，并死不复加。
不可累者，故有并数；不可并数，乃累其加。
以加论者，但得其加；与加同者，连得其本。
不在次者，不以通论。
以人得罪与人同，以法得罪与法同。
侵生害死，不可齐其防；亲疏公私，不可常其教。
礼乐崇于上，故降其刑；刑法闲于下，故全其法。
是故尊卑叙，仁义明，九族亲，王道平也。
translation: 
These are all changes that have no fixed rules.
If the five punishments cannot be verified, use the five punishments to correct the crime. If the five punishments cannot punish the crime, use the five punishments to correct the crime. If you do bad things despite your good intentions, use money to atone for your sins.
Therefore, in the legal system, the number of life crimes shall not exceed fourteen levels, the death penalty shall not exceed three, the punishment for punishment shall not exceed six, the punishment for imprisonment shall not exceed five, the total number shall not exceed eleven years, the total number of floggings and punishments shall not exceed one thousand two hundred, the punishment shall not exceed one year, and the gold shall not exceed four taels.
The monthly redemption does not count the fraction of days, the daily redemption does not stick to which month, and there is no need to worry about leap months at the beginning of the year.
If the death penalty is not imposed because of additional crimes, there will be no additional crimes for those who have already been sentenced to death.
It cannot be accumulated, so there are concurrent penalties; it cannot be combined, so the penalties are cumulative.
Those who are punished according to the cumulative decree can only count the total amount of sins; those who are equal to the cumulative total will be counted to the original amount.
Those that are not in order will not be counted in the total.
Those who are convicted because of people are the same as the people, and those who are convicted because of the violation of the law are the same as the law.
Infringement on the living and harm to the dead cannot be punished uniformly; intimacy between public and private affairs cannot always be a lesson.
Ritual and music are respected by those above, so criminal laws are promulgated; criminal laws regulate the behavior below, so criminal laws are preserved.
Therefore, there is order in respect and order, benevolence and righteousness are clear, the nine races are harmonious, and the royal road is smooth.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
律有事状相似而罪名相涉者，若加威势下手取财为强盗，不自知亡为缚守，将中有恶言为恐猲，不以罪名呵为呵人，以罪名呵为受赇，劫召其财为持质。
此六者，以威势得财而名殊者也。
即不求自与为受求，所监求而后取为盗赃，输入呵受为留难，敛人财物积藏于官为擅赋，加欧击之为戮辱。
诸如此类，皆为以威势得财而罪相似者也。
夫刑者，司理之官；理者，求情之机，情者，心神之使。
心感则情动于中，而形于言？暢于四支，发于事业。
是故奸人心愧而面赤，内怖而色夺。
论罪者务本其心，审其情，精其事，近取诸身，远取诸物，然后乃可以正刑。
仰手似乞，俯手似夺，捧手似谢，拟手似诉，拱臂似自首，攘臂似格斗，矜庄似威，怡悦似福，喜怒忧欢，貌在声色。
奸真猛弱，候在视息。
translation: 
In the criminal law, there are similar cases but related charges, such as taking advantage of one's power to take property, which is considered a robber, not knowing that one is escaping is considered a guard, using intimidation and threats while doing things is considered intimidation, not blaming someone for a crime is bullying, blaming someone for a crime is a victim, and taking someone else's property as a pledge.
These six points are used to obtain wealth with power but have different names.
That is, giving automatically without asking is called receiving, asking first and then asking for it is called stealing, importing and scolding someone to accept money and things is called retaining trouble, collecting other people's property and hoarding it in the government is called being a gift, and adding beatings to it is called killing and humiliation.
Such crimes are similar in that they use power to obtain property.
Punishment is the official in charge of management, reason is the tool for seeking emotion, and emotion is the messenger of the mind.
The emotions that are felt in the heart are activated in the face, expressed in words, directly to the limbs, and expressed in the career.
Therefore good people blush with guilt, and their faces turn pale with fear.
Those who discuss crime must investigate the criminal's true inner thoughts, examine his emotions, know the facts of his crime, draw the law himself from a close distance, and draw the law from a distance to all things, and only then can he apply the criminal law correctly.
Palms up is similar to begging, palms down is similar to snatching, holding hands is similar to thanking, stroking two fingers is similar to telling, arms arched together is similar to surrender, rolling up sleeves to expose arms is similar to fighting, reserve and solemnity are similar to majesty, expression of joy is similar to happiness, joy, anger, sorrow, and happiness are reflected in the voice and face.
Whether he is strong or weak, just look at his eyes and breathing.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
出口有言当为告，下手有禁当为贼，喜子杀怒子当为戏，怒子杀喜子当为贼。
诸如此类，自非至精不能极其理也。
律之名例，非正文而分明也。
若八十，非杀伤人，他皆勿论，即诬告谋反者反坐。
十岁，不得告言人；即奴婢捍主，主得谒杀之。
贼燔人庐舍积聚，盗赃五匹以上，弃市；即燔官府积聚盗，亦当与同。
欧人教令者与同罪，即令人欧其父母，不可与行者同得重也。
若得遗物强取强乞之类，无还赃法随例畀之文。
法律中诸不敬，违仪失式，及犯罪为公为私，赃入身不入身，皆随事轻重取法，以例求其名也。
夫理者，精玄之妙，不可以一方行也；律者，幽理之奥，不可以一体守也。
或计过以配罪，或化略以循常，或随事以尽情，或趣舍以从时，或推重以立防，或引轻而就下。
公私废避之宜，除削重轻之变，皆所以临时观衅，使用法执诠者幽于未制之中，采其根牙之微，致之于机格之上，称轻重于豪铢，考辈类于参伍，然后乃可以理直刑正。
夫奉圣典者若操刀执绳，刀妄加则伤物，绳妄弹则侵直。
枭首者恶之长，斩刑者罪之大，弃市者死之下，髡作者刑之威，赎罚者误之诫。
translation: 
If something is said, it should be reported, if someone breaks the law, it should be a thief, if a happy child kills an angry child, it should be a show, if an angry child kills a happy child, it should be a thief.
Unless you are extremely proficient, you cannot fully understand the reason.
The names and examples of criminal laws are not in the main text but are clear.
For example, when you reach the age of eighty, you will not be held accountable for anything other than killing or wounding someone. If you falsely accuse someone of treason, you will be punished.
When a slave is ten years old, he is not allowed to tell anyone else; if a slave contradicts his master, the master can tell him and kill him.
If a thief burns other people's houses and steals more than five pieces of stolen goods, he must abandon the market; if he burns government buildings and steals, the same should be done.
The crime of beating someone is the same as the person who instigates it. If someone beats their parents, they cannot be treated the same as the person who beats them.
For example, if the property is taken away by force, there is no provision in the law for the return of dirty property.
In the law, all kinds of disrespect and non-conformity to etiquette paradigms, as well as whether the crime is public or private, and whether the dirty things have been possessed by individuals, are all based on the importance of the facts, using the law and using examples to find out the names.
Principle is the most profound among the mysteries and cannot be implemented by one method; law is the most profound among the mysteries and cannot be implemented by one system.
Sometimes the fault is calculated to convict, sometimes the laws are changed to follow common sense, sometimes the facts are used to ascertain the true situation, sometimes choices are made to comply with the times, sometimes the punishment is increased to prevent crime, and sometimes the punishment is given lightly to comply with circumstances.
The purpose of abolition of public and private matters, and the elimination of changes in severity, is to monitor changes in situations at any time, so that law enforcement officers can collect tiny signs such as roots and sprouts before making a decision, put them into corresponding specifications, weigh the weight of extremely small things, and examine the same category in complex situations, so that in the future, the reasoning can be sufficient and the sentence can be appropriate.
Enforcing the law is like handling a knife and a rope. If the knife cuts randomly, it will damage other things, and if the rope flicks randomly, it will affect the straightness.
The head of an owl shows that the evil deed is the most serious, beheading shows that the crime is serious, abandoning the market is under the death penalty, execution is to reflect the majesty of the criminal law, and atonement is to punish the mistakes committed.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
王者立此五刑，所以宝君子而逼小人，故为敕慎之经，皆拟《周易》有变通之体焉。
欲令提纲而大道清，举略而王法齐，其旨远，其辞文，其言曲而中，其事肆而隐。
通天下之志唯忠也，断天下之疑唯文也，切天下之情唯远也，弥天下之务唯大也，变无常体唯理也，非天下之贤圣，孰能与于斯！
夫刑而上者谓之道，刑而下者谓之器，化而裁之谓之格。
刑杀者是冬震曜之象，髡罪者似秋雕落之变，赎失者是春阳悔吝之疵之。
五刑成章，辄相依准，法律之义焉。
是时侍中卢珽、中书侍郎张华又表： 抄《新律》诸死罪条目，悬之亭传，以示兆庶。
有诏从之。
及刘颂为廷尉，频表宜复肉刑，不见省，又上言曰：
臣昔上行肉刑，从来积年，遂寝不论。
臣窃以为议者拘孝文之小仁，而轻违圣王之典刑，未详之甚，莫过于此。
translation: 
The king set up five kinds of punishments in order to protect the gentlemen and put pressure on the villains. Therefore, he wrote classics admonishing caution, all imitating the modified style of the Zhouyi.
If the outline is clear and clear, the road will be clear, and if the general outline is comprehensive, the king's method will be complete. Its meaning is far-reaching, its diction is beautiful, its language is detailed and appropriate, and its narrative is unrestrained and implicit.
Only loyalty can understand the aspirations of the world, only wen can judge the problems of the world, only distance can meet the feelings of the world, only big things can bridge the world, and only reason can change without a normal state. If not the sages of the world, who can participate in these things!
The metaphysical is called Tao, the metaphysical is called utensils, and what is transformed and cut is called grid.
Punishment is like the lightning and thunder in winter, committing crimes is like the change of vegetation in autumn, and redemption of mistakes is like the regretful blemishes of the spring sun.
The five punishments form their own pattern and depend on each other. Creation is the righteousness of the law.
At that time, Lu Cui, the minister in charge, and Zhang Hua, the minister in charge of Zhongshu, came to the table again; they copied each of the capital crime items in the "New Code" and hung them on the post box to announce to hundreds of millions of people.
The emperor issued an edict and agreed.
When Liu Song became a court official, he went to the court many times to say that corporal punishment should be reinstated. However, when he was not reviewed, he went to the court again and said:
My ministers had proposed corporal punishment for many years, but they finally put it aside and refused to discuss it.
I privately believe that the people who discussed the matter were stuck to Emperor Xiaowen's small benevolence and righteousness, ignored and violated the holy king's regular punishment, and the seriousness of the failure to examine could not be more serious than this.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
今死刑重，故非命者众；生刑轻，故罪不禁奸。
所以然者，肉刑不用之所致也。
今为徒者，类性元恶不轨之族也，去家悬远，作役山谷，饥寒切身，志不聊生，虽有廉士介者，苟虑不首死，则皆为盗贼，岂况本性奸凶无赖之徒乎！
又令徒富者输财，解日归家，乃无役之人也。
贫者起为奸盗，又不制之虏也。
不刑，则罪无所禁；不制，则群恶横肆。
为法若此，近不尽善也。
是以徒亡日属，贼盗日烦，亡之数者至有十数，得辄加刑，日益一岁，此为终身之徒也。
自顾反善无期，而灾困逼身，其志亡思盗，势不得息，事使之然也。
古者用刑以止刑，今反于此。
诸重犯亡者，发过三寸辄重髡之，此以刑生刑；加作一岁，此以徒生徒也。
亡者积多，系囚猥畜。
议者曰囚不可不赦，复从而赦之，此为刑不制罪，法不胜奸。
下知法之不胜，相聚而谋为不轨，月异而岁不同。
故自顷年以来，奸恶陵暴，所在充斥。
translation: 
If the death penalty is too severe, many people will die unexpectedly; if the death penalty is too light, the punishment will not stop breaking the law.
The reason for this situation is that corporal punishment is not used.
Most of those who serve in labor force nowadays are evil-natured people who are far away from home, doing hard labor in the valleys, starving and freezing, and are determined not to live a simple life. Even if there are honest and upright people, they will become thieves if they don't want to die first, let alone those who are rogue and rogue by nature!
He also asked the rich ones among the slaves to hand over their belongings and send them home after a while, becoming people who did not do hard labor.
The poor rise up to become traitors and thieves, and they are unstoppable captives.
Without severe punishment, it is impossible to prohibit crime; without restraint, many evil people will do whatever they want.
The enactment of such a law is shallow and imperfect.
Therefore, slaves ran away every day, and the number of thieves increased day by day. When there were many escapes, there were more than ten batches a day. The punishment was increased at will. Every day of escape increased the hard work by one year, and the person was a slave for life.
There is no hope for the slaves to think about returning to charity. They cannot stop thinking about escaping and becoming thieves. This is what the world has made them like.
In ancient times, punishment was used to avoid punishment, but now it is the opposite.
Every escaped felon, if his hair is more than three inches long, will always be re-introduced to the Kun punishment, which is to use punishment to give birth to punishment; to increase the hard labor for one year, to pursue is to use apprentice service to give birth to apprentice service.
More and more people are escaping, and a large number of prisoners have been captured.
Policymakers say that prisoners must be pardoned, and then pardon them. This means that punishment cannot stop crime, and criminal law cannot cure criminals.
The people below know that the law is ineffective and gather together to plot evil. There are new situations every month and every year.
Therefore, in recent years, evil people are everywhere bullying and oppressing others.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
议者不深思此故，而曰肉刑于名忤听，忤听孰与贼盗不禁？
圣王之制肉刑，远有深理，其事可得而言，非徒惩其畏剥割之痛而不为也，乃去其为恶之具，使夫奸人无用复肆其志，止奸绝本，理之尽也。
亡者刖足，无所用复亡。盗者截手，无所用复盗。
淫者割其势，理亦如之。
除恶塞源，莫善于此，非徒然也。
此等已刑之后，便各归家，父母妻子，共相养恤，不流离于涂路。
有今之困，创愈可役，上准古制，随宜业作，虽已刑残，不为虚弃，而所患都塞，又生育繁阜之道自若也。
今宜取死刑之限轻，及三犯逃亡淫盗，悉以肉刑代之。
其三岁刑以下，已自杖罚遣，又宜制其罚数，使有常限，不得减此。
其有宜重者，又任之官长。
应四五岁刑者，皆髡笞，笞至一百，稍行，使各有差，悉不复居作。
然后刑不复生刑，徒不复生徒，而残体为戳，终身作诫。
人见其痛，畏而不犯，必数倍于今。
且为恶者随发被刑，去其为恶之具，此为诸已刑者皆良士也，岂与全其为奸之手足，而蹴居必死之穷地同哉！
而犹曰肉刑不可用，臣窃以为不识务之甚也。
臣昔常侍左右，数闻明诏，谓肉刑宜用，事便于政。
愿陛下信独见之断，使夫能者得奉圣虑，行之于今。
translation: 
Policy makers do not think deeply about the reasons, but say that corporal punishment has a bad reputation. How can a bad reputation be compared to prohibiting theft?
When the Holy King formulated corporal punishment, he had profound reasons. These things can be explained clearly. It is not just to punish criminals who dare not commit crimes because they are afraid of the pain of skinning and cutting off their flesh, but to get rid of their tools for doing evil so that those evildoers can no longer do whatever they want. This is the whole truth.
Cut off the feet of a escaping criminal to prevent him from escaping again. Cut off a thief's hand so he can no longer steal.
The same principle applies to cutting off the adulterer's genitals.
To eliminate evil, we must block the source. There is nothing better than this, and it is not in vain.
After these people were tortured, they went home and let their parents, wives and children raise him together, so that they would not be left outside.
Today's embarrassment, after the wound is healed, you can work. From the above point of view, it is in line with the ancient system, and corresponding actions are taken according to different situations. Although the person is already a cripple, he has not been abandoned, and all the harms he worried about have been eliminated. And the way of fertility and prosperity is not compromised.
Now the death penalty should be reduced, and the three types of escape, adultery, and theft should be replaced with corporal punishment.
Those who serve a sentence of less than three years should be punished by beating themselves with a rod. The amount of punishment should also be stipulated so that it has a certain limit and cannot be less than this limit.
Those who should be severely punished were assigned to officials.
Those serving four or five years' sentences will all be punished with crotches and whippings, up to a hundred lashes, gradually implemented to make them different, and all will no longer be ordered to perform hard labor.
After this, punishment no longer begets punishment, and slave labor no longer breeds slave labor, but mutilation of limbs as a punishment and humiliation becomes a lifelong punishment.
When people see that painful look, they will be afraid and dare not commit crimes. The situation will surely be many times worse than it is now.
Moreover, evildoers are punished according to their evil deeds, and the tools for evildoing are removed. This means that everyone who is punished is a good person. How can this be the same as preserving the criminal's hands and feet to do evil and kicking him into a desperate situation where he will die?
However, some people say that corporal punishment cannot be carried out. I privately think that this is very ignorant of current affairs.
In the past, I often served the emperor and heard the sage's edicts many times. I thought that corporal punishment should be used because it would facilitate the governance of the country.
I hope that your majesty will believe in this insightful judgment so that those virtuous people can follow the wise counsel and implement it today.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
比填沟壑，冀见太平。
《周礼》三赦三宥，施于老幼悼耄，黔黎不属逮者，此非为恶之所出，故刑法逆舍而宥之。
至于自非此族，犯罪则必刑而无赦，此政之理也。
暨至后世，以时嶮多难，因赦解结，权以行之，又不以宽罪人也。
至今恆以罪积狱繁，赦以散之，是以赦愈数而狱愈塞，如此不已，将至不胜。
原其所由，内刑不用之故也。
今行肉刑，非徒不积，且为恶无具则奸息。
去此二端，狱不得繁，故无取于数赦，于政体胜矣。
疏上，又不见省。
至惠帝之世，政出群下，每有疑狱，各立私情，刑法不定，狱讼繁滋。
尚书裴頠表陈之曰：
夫天下之事多涂，非一司之所管；中才之情易扰，赖恆制而后定。
translation: 
They all filled up the ravines, hoping to see peace.
There are three pardons and three forgivenesses in "Zhou Rites", which are applied to the elderly and young, and the people of Li are not affected. It is because this is not the place where evil occurs, so the criminal law in turn forgives them.
As for those who do not fall into this category, if they commit a crime, they must be punished and cannot be pardoned. This is the principle of handling political affairs.
In later generations, because of the difficulties of the times, they took advantage of forgiveness to resolve grievances, and used it lightly, but did not use it to forgive the sinner.
Up to now, because there are too many criminal cases, pardons are often used to divert them. Therefore, the more frequent pardons, the more cases there will be. If this situation does not stop, it will become unbearable.
The reason for this is that corporal punishment is not used.
If corporal punishment is implemented now, not only will the number of cases not increase, but the evildoers will no longer have the ability to do evil, and evil will cease.
Excluding the two aspects of deportation, the number of cases will not increase, so there is no need to resort to multiple pardons, but to win in the political and religious aspects.
I wrote a memorial, but there was no reply.
By the time of Emperor Hui, government orders came from ministers. Whenever there were difficult cases, ministers would talk about their personal affairs. The criminal law had no fixed regulations and there were more and more lawsuits.
Shangshu Pei Dun said:
There are many aspects to the affairs of the world, which cannot be controlled by a certain kind of officials; the emotions of middle-class people are easily disturbed, and they rely on permanent systems to stabilize them.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
先王知其所以然也，是以辨方分职，为之准局。
准局既立，各掌其务，刑赏相称，轻重无二，故下听有常，群吏安业也。
旧宫掖陵庙有水火毁伤之变，然后尚书乃躬自奔赴，其非此也，皆止于郎令史而已。
刑罚所加，各有常刑。
去元康四年，大风之后，庙阙屋瓦有数枚倾落，免太常荀寓。
于时以严诏所谴，莫敢据正。
然内外之意，佥谓事轻责重，有违于常。
会五年二月有大风，主者惩惧前事。
臣新拜尚书始三日，本曹尚书有疾，权令兼出，按行兰台。
主者乃瞻望阿栋之间，求索瓦之不正者，得栋上瓦小邪十五处。
或是始瓦时邪，盖不足言，风起仓卒，台官更往，太常按行，不及得周，文书未至之顷，便竞相禁止。
臣以权兼暂出，出还便罢，不复得穷其事。
而本曹据执，却问无已。
臣时具加解遣，而主者畏咎，不从臣言，禁止太常，复兴刑狱。
translation: 
The late king knew the reason, so he divided the official positions according to the positions and divided the scope of responsibilities.
After the scope of responsibilities is divided, each person is in charge of affairs, and the punishments and rewards are commensurate and the severity is consistent. Therefore, there are certain standards for handling lawsuits, and officials are content with their duties.
In the past, the Gongye Mausoleum Temple suffered fire and water damage, so in the future, the minister would go there in person. If not, he would only visit Lang Lingshi.
The punishments imposed are each in their own way.
In the fourth year of Yuankang, after a strong wind, several roof tiles of the palace and temple fell off, and Taichang Xunyu was dismissed from his post.
At that time, because of the severe edict condemnation, no one dared to argue against it.
However, both inside and outside the court believed that the accident was minor but the punishment was heavy, which was against the norm.
It happened that there was a strong wind in February of the fifth year, and the supervisor was frightened by what had happened in the past.
I have just been appointed as the Minister for three days. The Minister of Cao is ill, so I have the authority to ask my ministers to take charge of the affairs and patrol Lantai.
The supervisor then looked between the pillars and beams, looking for irregular tiles, and found fifteen crooked tiles on the pillars.
Some of the tiles were not straight when they were laid, which was probably not worth mentioning. Suddenly a strong wind blew, and Taiwan officials went there one after another. They often went to inspect, and they didn't have time to do everything carefully. Before the documents arrived, they were imprisoned one after another.
Because the minister hastily handed over his power, he gave up after handing it over and could no longer pursue the matter.
But Bencao chased after him and asked endless questions.
At that time, all the ministers were dismissed, but the supervisor was afraid of being held accountable and did not listen to the opinions of his ministers. He was imprisoned too often and punished heavily.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
昔汉氏有盗庙玉环者，文帝欲族诛，释之但处以死刑，曰： 若侵长陵一抔土，何以复加？
文帝从之。
大晋垂制，深惟经远，山陵不封，园邑不饰，墓而不坟，同乎山壤，是以丘阪存其陈草，使齐乎中原矣。
虽陵兆尊严，唯毁发然后族之，此古典也。
若登践犯损，失尽敬之道，事止刑罪可也。
去八年，奴听教加诬周龙烧草，廷尉遂奏族龙，一门八口并命。
会龙狱翻，然后得免。
考之情理，准之前训，所处实重。
今年八月，陵上荆一枝围七寸二分者被斫，司徒太常，奔走道路，虽知事小，而案劾难测，搔扰驱驰，各竞免负，于今太常禁止未解。
近日太祝署失火，烧屋三间半。
署在庙北，隔道在重墙之内，又即已灭，频为诏旨所问。
translation: 
During the Han Dynasty, a man stole a jade ring from the Imperial Ancestral Temple. Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty wanted to reduce his clan, but Zhang Shizhi only sentenced him to death, saying: If he violated a cup of soil in Changling, what other punishment could be added?
Emperor Wen listened to his advice.
The system passed down from the Jin Dynasty was thoughtful and far-reaching. Mountains and tombs were not sealed, gardens were not decorated, and tombs were erected instead of tombs. They were with the soil on the mountains, so their old grass remained on the hills and grew together with the grass in the Central Plains.
Even if the mausoleum is solemn and majestic, it is an ancient rule that the family will be reduced only after it is destroyed.
If you climb up and offend, you will lose the way of showing respect, and you will only be punished for the crime you committed.
In the eighth year, the slaves were instigated by others and falsely accused Zhou Long of burning grass. The Tingwei then submitted a memorial requesting that Zhou Long's clan be destroyed. The whole family would be killed within eight days.
It happened that the truth about Zhou Long's case came to light, so that he could avoid being exterminated.
Judged by reason and ancient precepts, this punishment is too severe.
In August of this year, a seven-inch-and-a-half-thick wattle tree on the mausoleum was cut down. Situ Taichang was busy traveling on the road to dispatch something. Although he knew that the matter was small, the handling of the case was difficult to predict. He worked hard and rushed, each competing to escape responsibility. Up to now, Taichang has been imprisoned and has not been released.
A fire broke out in Taizhu's official office recently, burning three and a half rooms.
The official office is to the north of the Imperial Ancestral Temple, separated by a heavy wall. The fire has been put out, and there are frequent interrogations.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
主者以诏旨使问频繁，便责尚书不即案行，辄禁止，尚书免，皆在法外。
刑书之文有限，而舛违之故无方，故有临时议处之制，诚不能皆得循常也。
至于此等，皆为过当，每相逼迫，不得以理，上替圣朝画一之德，下损崇礼大臣之望。
臣愚以为犯陵上草木，不应乃用同产异刑之制。
按行奏劾，应有定准，相承务重，体例遂亏。
或因余事，得容浅深。
頠虽有此表，曲议犹不止。
时刘颂为三公尚书，又上疏曰：自近世以来，法渐多门，令甚不一。
臣今备掌刑断，职思其忧，谨具启闻。
臣窃伏惟陛下为政，每尽善，故事求曲当，则例不得直；尽善，故法不得全。
何则？
translation: 
Because Shao ordered frequent interrogations, the person in charge punished the minister for not inspecting immediately. He was often imprisoned and the minister was dismissed, which was illegal.
The text of the criminal document is limited, but the reasons for violating the law are not specified. Therefore, there is a system for ad hoc discussions on how to deal with the crime. It is true that everything cannot be dealt with according to the routine.
As for these, they are all inappropriate, often forcing each other, and no longer being reasonable. From the top, it undermines the uniformity of the criminal law of the Holy Dynasty, and from the bottom, it undermines the expectations of the Minister of Chongli.
Chen Yu believes that the system of different punishments for the same property and different punishments should not be used if the vegetation on the tomb is offended.
There should be certain standards for patrolling and impeachment. When following the system, we should try to be as strict as possible, so the style is damaged.
Sometimes due to other matters, some leniency and some severity may be allowed.
Although Pei Yi was on this memorial, all kinds of biased remarks have not stopped.
At that time, Liu Song was appointed Sangong Shangshu, and he wrote: Since modern times, criminal law has gradually been divided into multiple departments, and the laws and regulations are very inconsistent.
Now that I am in full control of the prison, I am very worried and would like to state it now.
I privately hope that your majesty will always do a perfect job in handling state affairs. Therefore, if you seek twists and turns in everything, you will not be able to fully comply with the old rules. If you do a perfect job, the criminal law cannot be comprehensive.
Why?


Chunk 35: 
original: 
夫法者，固以尽理为法，而上求尽善，则诸下牵文就意，以赴主之所许，是以法不得全。
刑书征文，征文必有乖于情听之断，而上安于曲当，故执平者因文可引，则生二端。
是法多门，令不一，则吏不知所守，下不知所避。
奸伪者因法之多门，以售其情，所欲浅深，苟断不一，则居上者难以检下，于是事同议异，狱犴不平，有伤于法。
古人有言： 人主详，其政荒；人主期，其事理。
详匪他，尽善则法伤，故其政荒也。
期者轻重之当，虽不厌情，苟入于文，则循而行之，故其事理也。
夫善用法者，忍违情不厌听之断，轻重虽不允人心，经于凡览，若不可行，法乃得直。
translation: 
Although the criminal law is based on complete rationality, if the higher authorities seek perfection, then the lower authorities will forcefully twist the meaning of the text to accommodate the promises made by the higher authorities, so the criminal law cannot be perfected.
Evidence from criminal documents must be obtained from documents, and evidence obtained from documents must be contrary to the judgment of reason. However, the superiors are willing to bend and adapt. Therefore, those who uphold justice will have two opinions because they have literary examples to cite.
Therefore, the law comes from many branches and the laws are inconsistent. Then the officials do not know what to follow and the people do not know what to avoid.
The traitor takes advantage of the inconsistency of the criminal law to realize his own ideas and desires. If the judgments are inconsistent, it will be difficult for those above to restrain the subordinates. Therefore, there will be different interpretations of the same thing, and the prison will not be able to be governed, which will damage the criminal law.
The ancients had this saying: If the requirements for becoming ruler are too detailed, the state affairs will be neglected; if the requirements for becoming ruler are reasonable, the state affairs will be well managed.
The result of thoroughness is nothing else. If it is too perfect, it will harm the criminal law, so the national government will be in ruins.
Hope is that the priorities are appropriate. Although it cannot be dealt with as much as possible, if the provisions are written down, they must be followed and implemented, so that the affairs of the country can be managed well.
People who are good at using criminal law cannot bear to violate decisions that cannot satisfy the public opinion. Even if the severity is not completely in line with people's hearts, in the eyes of ordinary people, it seems that it cannot be implemented. Only then can the law achieve justice.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
又君臣之分，各有所司。
法欲必奉，故令主者守文；理有穷塞，故使大臣释滞；事有时宜，故人主权断。
主者守文，若释之执犯跸之平也；大臣释滞，若公孙弘断郭解之狱也；人主权断，若汉祖戮丁公之为也。
天下万事，自非斯格重为，故不近似此类，不得出以意妄议，其余皆以律令从事。
然后法信于下，人听不惑，吏不容奸，可以言政。
人主轨斯格以责群下，大臣小吏各守其局，则法一矣。
古人有言： 善为政者，看人设教。
看人设教，制法之谓也。
又曰： 随时之宜 ，当务之谓也。
然则看人随时，在大量也，而制其法。
法轨既定则行之，行之信如四时，执之坚如金石，群吏岂得在成制之内，复称随时之宜，傍引看人设教，以乱政典哉！
translation: 
Moreover, the king and his ministers are different and each has his or her own duties.
The law must be followed, so the person in charge is asked to abide by the provisions; when there is a problem, the minister is asked to clear the way; things are different from time to time, so the person in charge makes a flexible decision.
The person in charge abides by the rules, just like Zhang Shizhi fairly dealt with the person who violated the road that the emperor's carriage was going to pass; the ministers cleared the obstruction, just like Gongsun Hong judged Guo Xie's prison lawsuit; the master made decisions flexibly, just like the emperor of the Han Dynasty punished Ding Gong.
Everything in the world, unless this law focuses on action, therefore does not approximate this category, cannot be discussed randomly based on subjective imagination, and other things are done according to laws and regulations.
Then the law will be enforced, people will no longer have doubts about hearing and seeing, officials will not tolerate evildoers, and they can discuss state affairs.
If the ruler follows this rule to restrain his subordinates, and if the ministers and minor officials abide by their respective duties, then the execution of the criminal law will be unified.
The ancients had this saying: Those who are good at managing state affairs set up education based on people.
Looking at people and establishing enlightenment refers to formulating laws.
He also said that appropriate measures should be taken at different times. This is what should be done at the moment.
In this way, judging people varies from time to time, and it depends on the measure and the formulation of laws.
After the law is enacted, it must be implemented. When it is implemented, it is as trustworthy as the seasons change, and when it is enforced, it is as firm as gold and stone. How can officials, within the established system, take appropriate measures at different times, widely quote the teachings of people, and use it to disrupt the state's laws and regulations!


Chunk 37: 
original: 
何则？
始制之初，固已看人而随时矣。
今若设法未尽当，则宜改之。
若谓已善，不得尽以为制，而使奉用之司公得出入以差轻重也。
夫人君所与天下共者，法也。
已令四海，不可以不信以为教，方求天下之不慢，不可绳以不信之法。
且先识有言，人至遇而不可欺也。
不谓平时背法意断，不胜百姓愿也。
上古议事以制，不为刑辟。
夏殷及周，书法象魏。
三代之君齐圣，然咸弃曲当之妙鉴，而任征文之直准，非圣有殊，所遇异也。
今论时敦朴，不及中古，而执平者欲适情之所安，自托于议事以制。
臣窃以为听言则美，论理则违。
然天下至大，事务众杂，时有不得悉循文如令。
故臣谓宜立格为限，使主者守文，死生以之，不敢错思于成制之外，以差轻重，则法恆全。
事无正据，名例不及，大臣论当，以释不滞，则事无阂。
至如非常之断，出法赏罚，若汉祖戮楚臣之私己，封赵氏之无功，唯人主专之，非奉职之臣所得拟议。
translation: 
Why?
When we first started to formulate laws, we had to look at people differently over time.
If the laws established now are not entirely adequate, they should be revised.
If it is said that it has been perfected, it cannot be fully followed and implemented. On the contrary, it will make the officials who follow it obviously have differences in enforcing the law and the severity will be different.
What everyone in the world has in common is law.
It has been promulgated all over the world, and bad faith cannot be used as a lesson. When we are seeking for people in the world not to neglect it, we cannot use laws without trust to restrain them.
And the wise men of the past said that people cannot deceive when they are extremely stupid.
It does not mean that people usually violate the law and make decisions at will, which cannot satisfy the people.
In ancient times, decisions were made through deliberation and no criminal law was established.
From the Xia Dynasty, the Shang Dynasty to the Zhou Dynasty, the laws were written down and hung on Xiang Wei.
The kings of the three generations were all sage, but they all abandoned the subtle method of obtaining suitable solutions through modification, and adopted the principle of obtaining evidence from texts. The difference was not in the degree of sage, but in the different situations they faced.
In terms of the simplicity of the times now, it is not as good as in the Middle Ages, but those who preside over the review want to be comfortable with people's emotions and rely on making decisions through deliberations.
The minister thought that this sounded very good, but it did not make sense in theory.
But the world is too big and affairs are complicated, and there are often things that cannot be fully followed and in compliance with the law.
Therefore, I believe that regulations should be formulated to restrict it, so that those in charge will abide by the provisions and implement them even if they pay for their lives. They do not dare to circumvent the existing laws and make decisions that are inappropriate, so that the laws can be preserved forever.
If there is no conclusive evidence or there is no mention of the matter in the examples, the ministers will discuss it to clear the obstacles, and then there will be no obstacles.
As for judgments that are beyond the rules and rewards and punishments that are beyond the law, such as the emperor of Han Dynasty killing Chu ministers to benefit himself, and rewarding ministers who have no meritorious service, only the emperor can make arbitrary decisions, not the ministers who are ordered to do things.


Chunk 38: 
original: 
然后情求傍请之迹绝，似是而非之奏塞，此盖齐法之大准也。
主者小吏，处事无常。
何则？
无情则法徒克，有情则挠法。
积克似无私，然乃所以得其私，又恆所岨以卫其身。
断当恆克，世谓尽公，时一曲法，乃所不疑。
故人君不善倚深似公之断，而责守文如令之奏，然后得为有检，此又平法之一端也。
夫出法权制，指施一事，厌情合听，可适耳目，诚有临时当意之快，胜于征文不允人心也。
然起为经制，经年施用，恆得一而失十。
故小有所得者，必大有所失；近有所漏者，必远有所苞。
故谙事识体者，善权轻重，不以小害大，不以近妨远。
忍曲当之近适，以全简直之大准。
不牵于凡听之所安，必守征文以正例。
translation: 
In this way, requests for intercession will disappear and specious memorials will be blocked. This is probably the general rule for regulating criminal law.
The little official who is in charge is erratic in handling things.
Why?
The law will win in vain if it is not based on feelings, and it will interfere with the execution of the law if it is based on feelings.
It may seem selfless to always win, but this is the reason why you can be selfish, and you often protect yourself by being unselfish.
If the judgment is correct, it will often win. The world thinks it is completely fair. Even if the law is wrong for a moment, no one will doubt it.
Therefore, a person should not praise a seemingly fair ruling that the evidence is reliable, but should seek a memorial that abides by the provisions and complies with the law. Only then can it be considered legal, and this is another method of rectifying the rule of law.
Putting aside the flexible judgment of the law, it is better to deal with something if it is reasonable and well-received, can satisfy the needs of the ears and eyes, and does provide temporary satisfaction, rather than obtaining evidence and relying on documents to be unpopular.
However, if it is regarded as a permanent legal system and implemented all year round, it will often be correct once and wrong ten times.
Therefore, if there is a small gain, there must be a big loss; if there is an omission nearby, there must be something far away.
Therefore, those who understand the situation are good at weighing the importance and importance, and do not let the small harm the big, and do not let the near harm the far.
Be willing to resort to twists and turns to achieve a rough fit, in order to preserve the simplicity and simplicity of the general rule.
Regardless of what public opinion affirms, we must abide by the rules of collecting evidence and documenting.


Chunk 39: 
original: 
每临其事，恆御此心以决断，此又法之大概也。
又律法断罪，皆当以法律令正文，若无正文，依附名例断之，其正文名例所不及，皆勿论。
法吏以上，所执不同，得为异议。
如律之文，守法之官，唯当奉用律令。
至于法律之内，所见不同，乃得为异议也。
今限法曹郎令史，意有不同为驳，唯得论释法律，以正所断，不得援求诸外，论随时之宜，以明法官守局之分。
诏下其事。侍中、太宰、汝南王亮奏以为： 夫礼以训世，而法以整俗，理化之本，事实由之。
若断不断，常轻重随意，则王宪不一，人无所错矣。
故观人设教，在上之举；守文直法，臣吏之节也。
臣以去太康八年，随事异议。
周悬象魏之书，汉咏画一之法，诚以法与时共，义不可二。
今法素定，而法为议，则有所开长，以为宜如颂所启，为永久之制。
于是门下属三公曰： 昔先王议事以制，自中古以来，执法断事，既以立法，诚不宜复求法外小善也。
若常以善夺法，则人逐善而不忌法，其害甚于无法也。
案启事，欲令法令断一，事无二门，郎令史已下，应复出法驳案，随事以闻也。
及于江左，元帝为丞相时，朝廷草创，议断不循法律，人立异议，高下无状。
主簿熊远奏曰： 礼以崇善，法以闲非，故礼有常典，法有常防，人知恶而无邪心。
是以周建象魏之制，汉创画一之法，故能阐弘大道，以至刑厝。
律令之作，由来尚矣。
translation: 
Whenever we deal with these matters, we should use this kind of thinking to make decisions. This is the general principle of the legal system.
Moreover, when the law determines a crime, the text of the legal instruction should be used. If there is no text, the judgment must be based on the names and examples. Anything that is not covered by the text, names and examples will be ignored.
Legal officials and above hold different views, which can be used as objections.
The text of the law and the officials who enforce the law should only follow the law.
As for within the law, differences of opinion can be regarded as dissent.
Nowadays, the history of law and order is limited. Different opinions can refute each other. They can only discuss the content within the law to correct the deficiencies in the decision. They are not allowed to invoke extra-legal interpretations and discuss temporary expedients to indicate the corresponding scope of the judge's responsibilities.
The emperor submitted this memorial to the ministers for discussion. The ministers, Dazai, and Runan King Sima Liang submitted the memorial and believed: Rituals are used to teach the world, and laws are used to regulate customs. The foundation of law and education, things are really through these two.
It's like making a decision and not making a decision. Often the importance is arbitrary. If the king's laws are not unified, people will not know what to do.
Therefore, it is the emperor's job to look at people and teach them; it is the duty of ministers to abide by the laws.
The ministers believed that in the eighth year of Taikang, things were different and they had objections.
The Zhou Dynasty hung legal documents in Xiangwei, and the Han Dynasty praised the uniform laws, which indeed connected the laws with the times and could not be changed morally.
The current law has always been established, but when it is discussed, it is enlightened and encouraged. I think it should be a permanent system as Liu Song said.
So the minister under the command of the family told the three princes: "In the past, the kings discussed matters according to the system. Since the Middle Ages, law enforcement has been adopted to decide matters. Now that legislation has been enacted, we should no longer seek small benefits outside of the law."
If the law is often violated for the sake of benefits, and people pursue benefits without fearing the law, the harm will be greater than if there is no law.
When it comes to settling cases, we want the laws to be unified and things not to come from multiple doors. From Lang Ling Shi down, we should come up with laws to refute the cases and report the situation at any time.
When the capital was moved to Jiangzuo and Emperor Yuan was appointed prime minister, the imperial court was a primitive one. Officials did not follow the law when deciding cases, and everyone put forward different opinions.
Xiong Yuan, the chief registrar, said: Rituals are used to advocate good things, and laws are used to prevent wrongdoing. Therefore, etiquette has fixed regulations, and laws have constant precautions. People know evil deeds and have no evil intentions.
Therefore, the Zhou Dynasty established a system in which laws were suspended in the Xiang Wei Dynasty, and the Han Dynasty established a unified law, so that the great road could be promoted, so that the criminal law was put aside and useless.
The creation of laws and regulations has a long history.


Chunk 40: 
original: 
经贤智，历夷险，随时斟酌，最为周备。
自军兴以来，法度陵替，至于处事不用律令，竞作属命，人立异议，曲适物情，亏伤大例。
府立节度，复不奉用，临事改制，朝作夕改，至于主者不敢任法，每辄关咨，委之大官，非为政之体。
若本曹处事不合法令，监司当以法弹违，不得动用开塞，以坏成事。
按法盖粗术，非妙道也，矫割物情，以成法耳。
若每随物情，辄改法制，此为以情坏法。
法之不一，是谓多门，开人事之路，广私请之端，非先王立法之本意也。
凡为驳议者，若违律令节度，当合经传及前比故事，不得任情以破成法。
愚谓宜令录事更立条制，诸立议者皆当引律令经传，不得直以情言，无所依准，以亏旧典也。
若开塞随宜，权道制物，此是人君之所得行，非臣子所宜专用。
主者唯当征文据法，以事为断耳。
translation: 
After passing through wise men and women, experiencing the ordinary and the dangerous, he always considers and is the most thorough.
Since the war, the law has declined, so that there is no need for laws and regulations to deal with things. Orders are issued one after another, everyone raises objections, and they are forced to satisfy favors, which damages the legal rules.
The state government established festivals and never used them again. It changed the system at will when dealing with matters, and changed orders day by day, so that the people in charge did not dare to implement the laws. Whenever someone asked for advice, they would refer it to the senior officials. This is not the rule for handling state affairs.
If the Cao handles matters illegally, the supervising officials should impeach him in accordance with the law, and should not change the law at will to avoid corrupting the inherent regulations.
Law enforcement is probably a crude method, not a subtle method. It is just a matter of changing and severing human relationships to form the law.
If you always follow human feelings and change the legal system at every turn, you are using feelings to corrupt the law.
Inconsistent laws lead to multiple doors of education, open the way for intercession and entreaty, and increase the chance of private entreaties. This was not the original intention of the former king's legislation.
Any objection that violates the laws and regulations must be in accordance with scriptures and previous precedents, and must not break the existing legal system at will.
I think we should let the recorders establish rules and regulations. Anyone who raises objections should quote the Laws and Orders, and should not only speak based on emotion without any other basis, thereby damaging the original regulations.
If the reform is appropriate and the affairs are handled flexibly, this is what the ruler can do, not what the ministers should do exclusively.
The person in charge should only make decisions based on legal provisions and facts.


Chunk 41: 
original: 
是时帝以权宜从事，尚未能从。
而河东卫展为晋王大理，考擿故事有不合情者，又上书曰： 今施行诏书，有考子正父死刑，或鞭父母问子所在。
近主者所称《庚寅诏书》，举家逃亡家长斩。
若长是逃亡之主，斩之虽重犹可。
设子孙犯事，将考祖父逃亡，逃亡是子孙，而父祖婴其酷。
伤顺破教，如此者众。
相隐之道离，则君臣之义废。君臣之义废，则犯上之奸生矣。
秦网密文峻，汉兴，扫除烦苛，风移俗易，几于刑厝。
大人革命，不得不荡其秽匿，通其圮滞。
今诏书宜除者多，有便于当今，著为正条，则法差简易。
元帝令曰： 礼乐不兴，则刑罚不中，是以明罚敕法，先王所慎。
自元康已来，事故荐臻，法禁滋漫。
大理所上，宜朝堂会议，蠲除诏书不可用者，此孤所虚心者也。
translation: 
At that time, the emperor adopted expedient measures and was not able to obey them.
However, Hedong Wei Zhan was King Dali of Jin Dynasty, and he found out that there were some irregularities in the past. He also wrote: Now when the edict is issued, some people torture their sons to testify against their father's death, and some whip their parents to interrogate where their sons are.
Recently, according to the "Geng Yin Edict" mentioned by the person in charge, the whole family fled and the head of the family was killed.
If the parent is the main fugitive, you can even kill him.
If the descendants commit a crime, the grandfather will be tortured and fled. It is the descendants who flee, but the father and grandfather bear the torture.
There are many cases where principles and education are damaged.
If the morality of mutual protection is violated, then the righteousness of the monarch and his ministers will be destroyed; if the righteousness of the monarch and his ministers is destroyed, then the evil behavior of committing rebellion will breed.
The legal network of the Qin Dynasty was strict and the words were strict. After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, complicated and harsh laws were eliminated. Customs changed and the laws were almost ignored.
When emperors changed dynasties, they had to clean up the filth and clear the stagnation.
Now the Shao Shu should eliminate many aspects of the old law, and include those that are beneficial to today. Then the law can almost be simplified.
Emperor Yuan issued an order saying: If rituals and music are not prosperous, punishments will be inappropriate. Therefore, it was prudent for the previous kings to declare punishments and rectify the law.
Since Motoyasu, accidents have occurred again and again, and there have been more and more laws.
Dali's opinions should be discussed in the court, and those in the imperial edict that cannot be implemented should be deleted. This is what Gu desires.


Chunk 42: 
original: 
及帝即位，展为廷尉，又上言： 古者肉刑，事经前圣，汉文除之，增加大辟。
今人户凋荒，百不遗一，而刑法峻重，非句践养胎之义也。
愚谓宜复古施行，以隆太平之化。
诏内外通议。
于是骠骑将军王导、太常贺循、侍中纪瞻、中书郎庾亮、大将军咨议参军梅陶、散骑郎张嶷等议，以： 肉刑之典，由来尚矣。
肇自古先，以及三代，圣哲明王所未曾改也。
岂是汉文常主所能易者乎！
时萧曹已没，绛灌之徒不能正其义。
逮班固深论其事，以为外有轻刑之名，内实杀人。
又死刑太重，生刑太轻，生刑纵于上，死刑怨于下，轻重失当，故刑政不中也。
且原先王之造刑也，非以过怒也，非以残人也，所以救奸，所以当罪。
今盗者窃人之财，淫者好人之色，亡者避叛之役，皆无杀害也，则加之以刑。
刑之则止，而加之斩戮，戮过其罪，死不可生，纵虐于此，岁以巨计。
translation: 
After the emperor ascended the throne, Wei Zhan was appointed as Tingwei, and he wrote: The corporal punishment in ancient times was abolished by the saints of the previous generation. Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty abolished it and added great reforms.
The population is now sparse, with less than one household left in a hundred, but the criminal law is very severe, which is not in line with Gou Jian's idea of ​​​​nurturing the people.
I believe that ancient corporal punishment should be restored to promote enlightenment in the peaceful and prosperous age.
The emperor ordered discussions both inside and outside the court.
So the hussar generals Wang Dao, Taichang He Xun, Shizhong Ji Zhan, Zhongshu Lang Yu Liang, the generals consulted the army Mei Tao, Sanqi Lang Zhang Yi and others discussed, and they believed: The system of corporal punishment has a long history.
Since ancient times, even through three generations, the sages and wise kings have not changed.
How could an ordinary monarch like Emperor Wen of Han change it?
At that time, Xiao He and Cao Shen had passed away, and people like Zhou Bo and Guan Ying could not uphold justice.
When Ban Gu discussed the matter in depth, he believed that on the surface it had the reputation of being a light punishment, but in reality it was fatal.
Moreover, the death penalty is too severe, and the life punishment is too light. The life punishment makes the people above indulge in indulgence, and the death penalty makes the people below resentful. The severity is inappropriate, so the punishment is not appropriate.
Moreover, it is inferred that the punishments enacted by the previous kings were not used to vent anger or harm people, but to stop evil and punish crimes.
Now there are thieves stealing other people's property, adulterers raping other people's women, and fugitives hiding from rebellious corvees, but instead of killing them, they are punished.
It is enough to impose punishment, but it must be executed. For the crime he committed, the death penalty is too severe, and there is no resurrection after death. In this regard, cruelty is indulged in, and there are a large number of them every year.


Chunk 43: 
original: 
此乃仁人君子所不忍闻，而况行之于政乎！
若乃惑其名而不练其实，恶其生而趣其死，此畏水投舟，避坎蹈井，愚夫之不若，何取于政哉！
今大晋中兴，遵复古典，率由旧章，起千载之滞义，拯百残之遗黎，使皇典废而复存，黔首死而更生，至义暢于三代之际，遗风播乎百世之后，生肉枯骨，惠侔造化，岂不休哉！
惑者乃曰，死犹不惩，而况于刑？
然人者冥也，其至愚矣，虽加斩戮，忽为灰土，死事日往，生欲日存，未以为改。
若刑诸市朝，朝夕鉴戒，刑者咏为恶之永痛，恶者睹残刖之长废，故足惧也。
然后知先王之轻刑以御物，显诫以惩愚，其理远矣。
尚书令刁协、尚书薛兼等议，以为： 圣上悼残荒之遗黎，伤犯死之繁众，欲行刖以代死刑，使犯死之徒得存性命，则率土蒙更生之泽，兆庶必怀恩以反化也。
translation: 
This is something that a benevolent gentleman cannot bear to hear, let alone implement it in state affairs!
As for being confused by the name and not familiar with the reality, hating the prisoner's life and urging him to die, this is the fear of the water and abandoning the boat, and stepping into the well to avoid the hole. He is worse than a fool, and what good is it for the government of the country!
Now that the Jin Dynasty is reviving, it will follow the ancient canons, inherit the regulations of the past, invent meanings that have been obscure for thousands of years, save the people who have been harmed repeatedly, make the imperial code re-activate after its abolition, bring the people back to life, let the righteousness flow smoothly for three generations, send the wind to spread for a hundred generations, make the dry bones grow flesh, and the kindness will spread throughout the whole world. Wouldn't it be great!
Confused people actually say that murder cannot be punished, let alone punishment?
But people are confused and the most stupid. Even if you kill them, they will soon turn into dust. Death will pass day by day, but the desire to survive will exist every day and will not change.
If torture is used in the market, people can often use it as a warning. Those who are punished sigh long-term regret for doing evil, and evil people see the permanent disability after having their feet chopped off, so it is worth fearing.
Only after this did I realize that the former kings used light punishments to rule the people and used explicit warnings to punish stupidity. The principle behind this was very profound.
Shangshu Ling Diao Xie, Shangshu Xue Jian and others discussed and thought: The Holy Spirit pities the people in dilapidated and desolate places, and feels sad for those who have committed capital crimes. He wants to replace the death penalty with mutilation so that those who have committed capital crimes can survive. Then the whole world will be blessed by rebirth, and the people will definitely feel grateful and be inspired.


Chunk 44: 
original: 
今中兴祚隆，大命惟新，诚宜设宽法以育人。
然惧群小愚蔽，习玩所见而忽异闻，或未能咸服。
愚谓行刑之时，先明申法令，乐刑者刖，甘死者杀，则心必服矣。
古典刑不上大夫，今士人有犯者，谓宜如旧，不在刑例，则进退为允。
尚书顗、郎曹彦、中书郎桓彝等议，以为： 复肉刑以代死，诚是圣王之至德，哀矜之弘私。
然窃以为刑罚轻重，随时而作。
时人少罪而易威，则从轻而宽之；时人多罪而难威，则宜化刑而济之。
肉刑平世所应立，非救弊之宜也。
translation: 
Now that China's national destiny is prosperous and its destiny is new, loose laws should indeed be established to educate the people.
But I am afraid that the little people are ignorant. He likes what he usually sees and ignores precious information. Sometimes he is not completely convinced.
I think that when carrying out executions, the law should be stated first. Those who like to be punished can be executed, and those who are willing to die can be killed. Then their hearts will definitely surrender.
The ancient system did not punish officials. If today's scholars commit crimes, I think it should remain the same and not be included in the execution. Then it is appropriate to advance or retreat.
Shangshu Zhou Zhuan, Lang Caoyan, Zhongshu Lang Huanyi and others discussed and believed: Restoring corporal punishment to replace the death penalty is indeed the noblest morality of the sage king, showing compassion for the people and his generosity and kindness.
However, I secretly believe that the severity of punishment should vary with time.
At that time, people committed few crimes and were easily deterred, so the punishment should be light and lenient; at that time, people committed many crimes and it was difficult to deter them, so the death penalty should be used as relief.
Corporal punishment is something that should be instituted in a peaceful world, and is not suitable to cure evil.


Chunk 45: 
original: 
方今圣化草创，人有余奸，习恶之徒，为非未已，截头绞颈，尚不能禁，而乃更断足劓鼻，轻其刑罚，使欲为恶者轻犯宽刑，蹈罪更众，是为轻其刑以诱人于罪，残其身以加楚酷也。
昔之畏死刑以为善人者，今皆犯轻刑而残其身，畏重之常人，反为犯轻而致囚，此则何异断刖常人以为恩仁邪！
受刑者转广，而为非者日多，踊贵屦贱，有鼻者丑也。
徒有轻刑之名，而实开长恶之源。
不如以杀止杀，重以全轻，权小停之。须圣化渐著，兆庶易威之日，徐施行也。
议奏，元帝犹欲从展所上。大将军王敦以为： 百姓习俗日久，忽复肉刑，必骇远近。
且逆寇未殄，不宜有惨酷之声，以闻天下。
于是乃止。
translation: 
Now that the sanctification has just begun, people still have many evil deeds, and those who are familiar with doing evil are still doing evil. It is not forbidden to chop off their heads and wring their necks, but they use chopping off their feet and cutting off their noses instead to reduce the punishment, so that those who want to do evil can lighten their crimes and relax their punishments. More people will commit crimes. This is to use reduced punishments to induce people to commit crimes, and to mutilate the bodies of criminals to increase their pain.
In the past, those who were afraid of the death penalty and were regarded as good people are now being punished for light punishments. Ordinary people who are afraid of heavy punishments are imprisoned for committing light punishments. In this way, what is the difference between cutting off the feet of ordinary people but thinking it is kindness and justice?
More and more people are being punished, but more and more people are committing crimes every day. Shoes are more expensive than shoes, and people with noses have become an ugly minority.
The mere reputation of mitigating sentences actually opens the door to long-lasting evil.
It is better to use beheading to stop beheading, to have heavy punishment to preserve light punishment, and to temporarily stop the execution, and then slowly implement it when the sanctification gradually becomes obvious and the general public can be easily frightened.
The results of the deliberations were reported to the emperor, and Emperor Yuan also planned to listen to Wei Zhan's opinion. General Wang Dun believed: "The people have been accustomed to the current customs for a long time, and the sudden resumption of corporal punishment will definitely surprise people near and far."
Moreover, the rebel bandits have not been eliminated yet, so there should not be cruel cries for everyone in the world to hear.
So I gave up.


Chunk 46: 
original: 
咸康之世，庾冰好为纠察，近于繁细，后益矫违，复存宽纵，疏密自由，律令无用矣。
至安帝元兴末，桓玄辅政，又议欲复肉刑斩左右趾之法，以轻死刑，命百官议。
蔡廓上议曰： 建邦立法，弘教穆化，必随时置制，德刑兼施。
长贞一以闲其邪，教禁以检其慢，洒湛露以流润，厉严霜以肃威，虽复质文迭用，而斯道莫革。
肉刑之设，肇自哲王。
盖由曩世风淳，人多惇谨，图像既陈，则机心直戢，刑人在涂，则不逞改操，故能胜残去杀，化隆无为。
季末浇伪，设网弥密，利巧之怀日滋，耻畏之情转寡。
终身剧役，不足止其奸，况乎黥劓，岂能反于善。
徒有酸惨之声，而无济俗之益。
translation: 
During the reign of Xiankang, Yu Bing liked to prosecute and prosecute people, which was almost trivial. Later, he even went against the right path and adopted loose punishments.
In the last years of Emperor An and Yuanxing, Huan Xuan assisted in state affairs and discussed plans to restore the corporal punishment of cutting off the left and right toes as a way to reduce the death penalty. The emperor ordered all officials to discuss it.
Cai Kuo wrote an opinion in his memorial: When establishing legislation and promoting enlightenment, policies must be formulated according to different times, and benevolent and virtuous punishments must be implemented at the same time.
Advocating loyalty is used to prevent treachery, teachings and prohibitions are used to detect neglect, spreading favors to moisturize the world, and aggravating punishments are solemn and powerful. Although the changes in quality and text still play a role, this method will not be replaced.
The establishment of corporal punishment originated from sage kings.
Probably because the customs of the previous generation were honest and honest, most people were honest and cautious. Once the images were displayed, they restrained their wits. People who were punished walked on the road and did not indulge or change their conduct. Therefore, they could be killed without punishment, and education could flourish through inaction.
The customs of the declining apocalypse are superficial and hypocritical, the establishment of laws and regulations is more complicated, clever thoughts are growing day by day, and the psychology of shame and fear has become less.
A lifetime of heavy labor is not enough to stop evildoers, let alone tattooing and cutting off the nose, how can it make criminals return to a good path.
There are miserable cries in vain, but they have no benefit in helping the current customs.


Chunk 47: 
original: 
至于弃市之条，实非不赦之罪，事非手杀，考律同归，轻重均科，减降路塞，钟陈以之抗言，元皇所为留愍。
今英辅翼赞，道邈伊周，诚宜明慎用刑，爱人弘育，申哀矜以革滥，移大辟于支体，全性命之至重，恢繁息于将来。
而孔琳之议不同，用王朗、夏侯玄之旨。
时论多与琳之同，故遂不行。
translation: 
As for the provisions of abandoning the city, if it is not an unforgivable crime, the matter is not murder by hand, the torture is consistent with the law, the light punishment and heavy punishment are the same, the road to reduce the punishment is blocked, Zhong Chen therefore loudly protested, and the Emperor Yuan took pity on him.
Nowadays, the elites are assisting the state affairs, and their conduct is better than that of Yi Yinzhou. We should indeed use punishment carefully, cherish the people and vigorously breed them, express compassion to eliminate excessive punishment, change the punishment of the human body, preserve the most important life, and increase reproduction in the future.
However, Kong Weiwang had a different opinion, and Yong Xingmu and Xia Baozhi had the same opinion.
Public opinion at the time was mostly the same as Kong Linzhi's, so corporal punishment was not carried out.


