Chunk 0: 
original: 
羊祜杜预
羊祜，字叔子，泰山南城人也。
世吏二千石，至祜九世，并以清德闻。
祖续，仕汉南阳太守。
父衟，上党太守。
祜，蔡邕外孙，景献皇后同产弟。
祜年十二丧父，孝思过礼，事叔父耽甚谨。
尝游汶水之滨，遇父老谓之曰： 孺子有好相，年未六十，必建大功于天下。
既而去，莫知所在。
及长，博学能属文，身长七尺三寸，美须眉，善谈论。
郡将夏侯威异之，以兄霸之子妻之。
举上计吏，州四辟从事、秀才，五府交命，皆不就。
太原郭奕见之曰： 此今日之颜子也。
与王沈俱被曹爽辟。
沈劝就征，祜曰： 委质事人，复何容易。
及爽败，沈以故吏免，因谓祜曰： 常识卿前语。
祜曰： 此非始虑所及。
其先识不伐如此。
translation: 
Yang Hu Du Yu
Uncle Yang Hu was born in Nancheng, Mount Tai.
He has been an official of two thousand shi for generations, and he has been in Yanghu for nine generations. They are all famous for their integrity and virtue.
His grandfather, Yangxu, served as the prefect of Nanyang in Han Dynasty.
His father, Yang Gou, was appointed as the prefect of Shangdang.
Yang Hu is the grandson of Cai Yong and the younger brother of Queen Jingxian.
Yang Hu's father passed away when he was twelve years old. He obeyed filial piety more than etiquette and served his uncle Yang Dan with great respect.
Once when he was playing by the Wenshui River, he met an old man who said to him: This boy has good looks and is less than sixty years old. He will definitely make great achievements in the world.
After he left, no one knew where he was.
When he grew up, he was erudite and could write articles, and he was seven feet three inches tall. The man is handsome and good at talking.
Xiahou Wei, the general of the county, thought he was unusual and married his brother Xiahou Ba's daughter to him.
He was recommended as a planner, and he was called up four times to serve as an official or scholar in the state. He refused to take up the post in any of the five prefectures.
Guo Yi from Taiyuan saw him and said: This is Yan Hui today.
Both Wang Chen and Wang Chen were recruited by Cao Shuang.
Wang Chen persuaded him to apply, but Yang Hu said: It is not easy to entrust yourself to others to do things for others.
When Cao Shuang failed, Wang Chen survived as an old official, so he said to Yang Ku: "Always remember what you said before."
Yang Ku said: "It was not what I considered at the beginning."
He was so prescient and boastful.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
夏侯霸之降蜀也，姻亲多告绝，祜独安其室，恩礼有加焉。
寻遭母忧，长兄发又卒，毁慕寝顿十余年，以道素自居，恂恂若儒者。
文帝为大将军，辟祜，未就，公车征拜中书侍郎，俄迁给事中、黄门郎。
时高贵乡公好属文，在位者多献诗赋，汝南和逌以忤意见斥，祜在其间，不得而亲疏，有识尚焉。
陈留王立，赐爵关中侯，邑百户。
以少帝不愿为侍臣，求出补吏，徙秘书监。
及五等建，封钜平子，邑六百户。
钟会有宠而忌，祜亦惮之。
及会诛，拜相国从事中郎，与荀勖共掌机密。
迁中领军，悉统宿卫，入直殿中，执兵之耍，事兼内外。
武帝受禅，以佐命之勋，进号中军将军，加散骑常侍，改封郡公，邑三千户。
固让封不受，乃进本爵为侯，置郎中令，备九官之职，加夫人印绶。
泰始初，诏曰： 夫总齐机衡，允厘六职，朝政之本也。
祜执德清劭，忠亮纯茂，经纬文武，謇謇正直，虽处腹心之任，而不总枢机之重，非垂拱无为委任责成之意也。
其以祜为尚书右仆射、卫将军，给本营兵。
时王佑、贾充、裴秀皆前朝名望，祜每让，不处其右。
帝将有灭吴之志，以祜为都督荆州诸军事、假节，散骑常侍、卫将军如故。
祜率营兵出镇南夏，开设庠序，绥怀远近，甚得江汉之心。
与吴人开布大信，降者欲去皆听之。
时长吏丧官，后人恶之，多毁坏旧府，祜以死生有命，非由居室，书下征镇，普加禁断。
translation: 
Xiahou Ba surrendered to Shu, and his in-laws broke off all relations with him. Only Yang Hu got along with his wife calmly, and was more loving and courteous.
Soon his mother passed away, and his eldest brother Yangfa died again. He lived in mourning for more than ten years. He regarded himself as honest and honest, like a Confucian scholar.
Emperor Wen appointed him as a general and summoned Yang Hu, but he did not go. Instead, he was appointed as the Minister of Zhongshu in a public car, and soon he was promoted to Shizhong and Huangmenlang.
At that time, the prince of Gaogui County was fond of writing articles, and those in official positions often contributed poems and poems. Runan and Di were reprimanded for violating the emperor's wishes.
King Chenliu ascended the throne and granted him the title of Marquis of Guanzhong and the title of 100 households.
Because the young emperor was unwilling to serve as a minister, Yang Hu asked to leave the palace to find a position to fill the vacancy, and was appointed secretary supervisor instead.
When the fifth-level title was established, he was granted the title of Jupingzi and was granted the title of 600 households.
Zhong Hui is favored and jealous, and Yang Ku is also afraid of him.
Zhong Hui was executed and appointed as the Prime Minister of the country, Zhonglang, and jointly took charge of Zhongshu affairs with Xun Xu.
He was promoted to the leader of the central army, and all the guards were under his command. He was on duty in the palace, in charge of the imperial army, and took care of both inside and outside the palace.
Emperor Wu accepted the concession, and because of his assistance, Yang Hu was promoted to the rank of general of the central army. He was given the rank of casual cavalry and permanent attendants, and was granted the title of county prince, with a settlement of 3,000 households.
He resolutely refused to be ennobled, so he changed the title to marquis, set up a doctor's order, prepared the positions of nine officials, and added a lady's seal and ribbon.
At the beginning of Taishi, the edict stated: Unifying the key institutions that govern the political power, and fairly managing the six official duties of governance, education, and etiquette are the foundation of the government.
Yang Hu has a high moral character, is loyal, upright, simple and excellent, is proficient in civil and military affairs, and is devoted to the country. Although he is entrusted with important responsibilities, he does not take charge of the country's important affairs, which is not in line with my original intention of handing the responsibility to the ministers and governing by doing nothing.
He appointed Yang Hu as Zuopushe and General Wei, and gave him soldiers in his camp.
At that time, Wang You, Jia Chong, and Pei Xiu were all famous people in the previous dynasty. Yang Hu was always humble and would not let his position be higher than theirs.
The emperor had the ambition to reduce Wu, and appointed Yang Hu as the commander-in-chief of Jingzhou's military affairs, holidays, casual cavalry and general guards.
Yang Hu led his troops to guard the south, opened schools, and comforted people near and far, which was very popular among Jiang and Han people.
Show your sincerity to the person who surrendered, and the person who surrendered will be free to leave if he wants.
At that time, the chief official died in office, and the next chief official was taboo and often destroyed the old government office. Yang Ku believed that life and death were in vain and had nothing to do with living quarters, so he sent underground documents to the guards to ban them generally.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
吴石城守去襄阳七百余里，每为边害，祜患之，竟以诡计令吴罢守。
于是戍逻减半，分以垦田八百余顷，大获其利。
祜之始至也，军无百日之粮，及至季年，有十年之积。
诏罢江北都督，置南中郎将，以所统诸军在汉东江夏者皆以益祜。
在军常轻裘缓带，身不被甲，铃閤之下，侍卫者不过十数人，而颇以畋渔废政。
尝欲夜出，军司徐胤执棨当营门曰： 将军都督万里，安可轻脱！
将军之安危，亦国家之安危也。
胤今日若死，此门乃开耳。
祜改容谢之，此后稀出矣。
后加车骑将军，开府如三司之仪。
祜上表固让曰： 臣伏闻恩诏，拔臣使同台司。
臣自出身以来，适十数年，受任外内，每极显重之任。
常以智力不可顿进，恩宠不可久谬，夙夜战悚，以荣为忧。
translation: 
Wu State was more than 700 miles away from each other, which often caused border troubles. Chai Hu was worried about this and used strategies to make Wu State give up its defense.
So the number of soldiers guarding the border was reduced by half, and more than 800 hectares of farmland were given to the soldiers, which made a huge profit.
When Chai Nian first took office, the army did not have a hundred days of food reserves. After a few years, it had ten years of savings.
Xia Shao dismissed the governor of Jiangbei and appointed General Nan Zhonglang. He added all the troops under his command in Jiangxia in the east of Han Dynasty to Lan Bing.
In the army, Shengjie often wore a light belt and no armor. In the place where he lived, he only had more than a dozen bodyguards, and he often neglected government affairs because of hunting and fishing.
I once wanted to go out at night. Military commander Xu Yin blocked the door with a weapon and said: "General and governor Wanli, how can you be negligent!"
The safety of the general is also the safety of the country.
If I die today, this door can only be opened.
Yang Hu smiled and admitted his mistake, and rarely went out after that.
Later, chariots and cavalry generals were added, and government offices were established to set up subordinates similar to the etiquette system of the three divisions.
Yang Hu resolutely declined and said: "I heard Shao Shu, promoted me like a Tai Secretary."
Since I became an official, it has only been more than ten years. I have accepted internal and external appointments, which are often very prominent and important positions.
Often because my intelligence cannot grow in a short time and grace cannot be bestowed upon me for a long time, I tremble all day long and regard glory as worry.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
臣闻古人之言，德未为人所服而受高爵，则使才臣不进；功未为人所归而荷厚禄，则使劳臣不劝。
今臣身托外戚，事连运会，诫在过宠，不患见遗。
而猥降发中之诏，加非次之荣。
臣有何功可以堪之，何心可以安之。
身辱高位，倾覆寻至，愿守先人弊庐，岂可得哉！
违命诚忤天威，曲从即复若此。
盖闻古人申于见知，大臣之节，不可则止。
臣虽小人，敢缘所蒙，念存斯义。
今天下自服化以来，方渐八年，虽侧席求贤，不遗幽贱，然臣不尔推有德，达有功，使圣听知胜臣者多，未达者不少。
假令有遗德于版筑之下，有隐才于屠钓之间，而朝议用臣不以为非，臣处之不以为愧，所失岂不大哉！
臣忝窃虽久，未若今日兼文武之极宠，等宰辅之高位也。
且臣虽所见者狭，据今光禄大夫李憙执节高亮，在公正色；光禄大夫鲁芝洁身寡欲，和而不同；光禄大夫李胤清亮简素，立身在朝，皆服事华发，以礼终始。
虽历位外内之宠，不异寒贱之家，而犹未蒙此选，臣更越之，何以塞天下之望，少益日月！
是以誓心守节，无苟进之志。
今道路行通，方隅多事，乞留前恩，使臣得速还屯。
不尔留连，必于外虞有阙。
匹夫之志，有不可夺。
不听。
translation: 
I heard that the ancients said that if one's virtue is not admired by others and receives a high title, a talented minister will not be promoted; if one's merit is not admired by others and enjoys a generous salary, then the meritorious minister will stop working hard.
Now, because I am a relative, things are related to the current situation. What I have to guard against is being overly favored and not afraid of being forgotten.
However, an edict was issued to bestow upon me glory that should not be given to me.
What achievements do I have that I can bear, and what mood do I have that I can enjoy with peace of mind.
After humiliating the high position, the overthrow will soon come. At that time, if you want to guard the shabby house of your ancestors, how can it be possible!
Disobeying the emperor's orders does offend the power of heaven, but so does submissive obedience.
It is said that the ancients were able to express their ambitions and maintain the moral integrity of ministers because they were known to others, and they did not force themselves if they did not want to.
Although I am a villain, I have such thoughts because I have received grace.
It has only been eight years since enlightenment was implemented in the world today. Although I seek talents on the sidelines and do not send away people who live in seclusion or low status, I cannot recommend virtuous people and make meritorious officials prominent, so that the emperor knows that there are many people who are better than me and there are many people who cannot be distinguished.
If there are virtues that have been neglected in the market, and there are talents who live in seclusion among the people, and the imperial government does not think it is a mistake to use me, and I do not feel ashamed to be in a high position, isn't the loss not great?
Although I have been in the official position for a long time, I have never been as favored as I am today by having both civil and military positions, and enjoying a high position equal to that of a prime minister.
Moreover, although my knowledge is not broad, as far as I know, the current Guanglu doctor Li Yi is of high moral character and fair in his office; Guanglu doctor Lu Zhi is incorruptible and has few desires, and is modest but different from others;
Although they are also favored and serve as officials inside and outside, they are no different from me, but they have not yet received such favors. If I surpass them, how can I satisfy the world's expectations, and how can it be of any benefit to the future!
Therefore, I vow to stick to my integrity and have no intention of seeking promotion.
Now the country is not yet stable and the border is troubled. Please retain the previous grace and allow me to return to the border as soon as possible.
If you stay in the capital, you will definitely suffer from external worries.
The ambition of an ordinary man cannot be taken away.
The emperor doesn't allow it.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
及还镇，吴西陵督步阐举城来降。
吴将陆抗攻之甚急，诏祜迎阐。
祜率兵五万出江陵，遣荆州刺史杨肇攻抗，不克，阐竟为抗所擒。
有司奏： 祜所统八万余人，贼众不过三万。
祜顿兵江陵，使贼备得设。
乃遣杨肇偏军入险，兵少粮悬，军人挫衄。
背违诏命，无大臣节。
可免官，以侯就第。
竟坐贬为平南将军，而免杨肇为庶人。
祜以孟献营武牢而郑人惧，晏弱城东阳而莱子服，乃进据险耍，开建五城，收膏腴之地，夺吴人之资，石城以西，尽为晋有。
自是前后降者不绝，乃增修德信，以怀柔初附，慨然有吞并之心。
每与吴人交兵，克日方战，不为掩袭之计。
将帅有欲进谲诈之策者，辄饮以醇酒，使不得言。
人有略吴二兒为俘者，祜遣送还其家。
后吴将夏详、邵顗等来降，二兒之父亦率其属与俱。
吴将陈尚、潘景来寇，祜追斩之，美其死节而厚加殡敛。
translation: 
When he returned to his post, Bu Chan, the governor of Wu Xiling, came to surrender from the city.
Wu general Lu Kang attacked fiercely, and ordered Yang Hu to respond to Bu Chan.
Yang Hu led 50,000 troops from Jiangling and sent Yang Zhao, the governor of Jingzhou, to attack Lu Kang, but failed to win. Bu Chan was finally captured by Lu Kang.
Relevant officials reported: Yang Hu led an army of more than 80,000 people, but the enemy army was only 30,000.
Yang Ku was slow to mobilize his troops in Jiangling, which allowed the enemy to set up defenses.
So Yang Zhao was sent to involve part of the army into the dangerous situation. There were few soldiers and food supplies, and the army suffered a setback.
Disobeying orders and not having the integrity of a minister.
He could be relieved of his duties and return home as a marquis.
Because of his crime, he was eventually demoted to General Pingnan, and Yang Zhao was dismissed as a civilian.
Yang Hu saw that Meng Xian was running a military prison and the Zheng people were afraid of it, and Yan Ruo was stationed in Cambodia and Laizi was obedient. He then invaded the strategic location, built five cities, collected fertile land, and seized the Wu people's wealth. The west of Shicheng was all owned by the Jin.
From then on, people continued to surrender, and they promoted virtue and credibility to appease those who had just come to rely on him, and they naturally had the ambition to annex Wu.
Every time he fought with the Wu people, he fought only on the day of open battle and did not carry out sneak attacks.
If any of the generals want to devise tricks, give them alcohol so that they will not be able to devise tricks.
Someone captured two young men from the state of Wu, and Yang Ku sent them home.
Later, Yu generals Xia Jiang, Dan Shi and others came to surrender, and the father of the two children also came with his family members.
Wu generals Chen Shang and Pan Jing came to invade, and Yang Ku chased them down. He praised them for their moral integrity and gave them extravagant funeral arrangements.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
景、尚子弟迎丧，祜以礼遣还。
吴将邓香掠夏口，祜募生缚香，既至，宥之。
香感其恩甚，率部曲而降。
祜出军行吴境，刈谷为粮，皆计所侵，送绢偿之。
每会众江沔游猎，常止晋地。
若禽兽先为吴人所伤而为晋兵所得者，皆封还之。
于是吴人翕然悦服，称为羊公，不之名也。
祜与陆抗相对，使命交通，抗称祜之德量，虽乐毅、诸葛孔明不能过也。
抗尝病，祜馈之药，抗服之无疑心。
人多谏抗，抗曰： 羊祜岂鸩人者！
时谈以为华元、子反复见于今日。
抗每告其戍曰： 彼专为德，我专为暴，是不战而自服也。
各保分界而已，无求细利。
孙皓闻二境交和，以诘抗。
抗曰： 一邑一乡，不可以无信义，况大国乎！
臣不如此，正是彰其德，于祜无伤也。
translation: 
The descendants of Pan Jing and Chen Shang came to attend the funeral, and Yang Hu sent them back according to the ceremony.
When Wu general Deng Xiang attacked Xiakou, Yang Hu demanded that Deng Xiang be captured alive. After he was captured, he was pardoned.
Deng Xiang was very grateful for Yang Hu's kindness and led his subordinates to surrender.
Yang Hu sent troops to the territory of Wu. Every time he cut grains for military rations, he calculated them clearly and sent silk as compensation.
Every time he went on a hunting trip to Jiangmian with other people, he was always restricted to the area of ​​Jin.
If the animals are injured by the Wu people first and then obtained by the Jin soldiers, all the animals will be returned to them.
So the people of Wu were convinced and called him Yang Gong without naming him.
Yang Hu and Lu Kang faced each other and exchanged envoys. Lu Kang praised Ji Nian's virtue, which even Le Yi and Zhuge Kongming could not surpass.
Lu Kang was once ill, and Yang Hu gave him medicine. Lu Kang took the medicine without any suspicion.
Most people advised Lu Kang not to take it. Lu Kang said: How could Yang Hu be the one who administered the poison?
Comments at the time believed that Hua Yuan and Zi Fan appeared today.
Lu Kang often warned his soldiers: He specializes in virtue, and I specialize in violence. This means that if you don't fight, you will surrender first.
The only way to keep the boundaries is to not be demanding small profits.
Sun Hao heard that the border between the two sides was at peace, so he questioned Lu Kang.
Lu Kang said: A city or a village cannot be without integrity, let alone a big country!
If I don't do this, I will be promoting Yangku's virtue and will do no harm to him.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
祜贞悫无私，疾恶邪佞，旬勖、冯紞之徒甚忌之。
从甥王衍尝诣祜陈事，辞甚俊辨，祜不然之，衍拂衣而起。
祜顾谓宾客曰： 王夷甫方以盛名处大位，然败俗伤化，必此人也。
步阐之役，祜以军法将斩王戎，故戎、衍并憾之，每言论多毁祜。
时人为之语曰： 二王当国，羊公无德。
咸宁初，除征南大将军、开府仪同三司，得专辟召。
初，祜以伐吴必藉上流之势。
又时吴有童谣曰： 阿童复阿童，衔刀浮渡江。
不畏岸上兽，但畏水中龙。
祜闻之曰： 此必水军有功，但当思应其名者耳。
会益州刺史王浚征为大司农，祜知其可任，浚又小字阿童，因表留浚监益州诸军事，加龙骧将军，密令修舟楫，为顺流之计。
祜缮甲训卒，广为戎备。
至是上疏曰： 先帝顺天应时，西平巴蜀，南和吴会，海内得以休息，兆庶有乐安之心。
而吴复背信，使边事更兴。
translation: 
Yang Hu was loyal and selfless and hated evil and sycophants. People like Xun Xu and Feng Tong hated him very much.
Wang Yan, a distant nephew, once went to Yang Hu to explain the matter, and his words were very eloquent. Yang Hu didn't take it seriously, and Wang Shu stood up with a flick of his clothes.
Yang Hu looked at the guests and said: Wang Yifu is occupying a high position with great reputation, but he must be the one who has corrupted his morals.
In response to Bu Chan's battle, Yang Ku was about to kill Wang Rong according to military law. Therefore, both Wang Rong and Wang Yan resented him and often slandered Yang Hu.
People at that time said: When the two kings were in power, Yang Gong was slandered.
At the beginning of Xianning, he was appointed as the general of Zhengnan and the third division of Kaifu Yitong, with the right to recruit officials.
At first, Yang Hu believed that the crusade against Wu must rely on the advantage of the upper reaches.
At that time, there was a nursery rhyme in the state of Wu that said: Ah Tong, Ah Tong, floating across the river with a knife in hand.
If you are not afraid of animals on the shore, you are afraid of dragons in the water.
After hearing this, Yang Hu said: This must mean that the navy can make meritorious deeds and should consider how to use the name A Tong.
It happened that Wang Jun, the governor of Yizhou, was recruited as the chief agricultural officer. Yang Hu knew that he could be appointed. Wang Jun's nickname was Atong, so he was appointed to supervise the military affairs of Yizhou. He joined General Longxiang and secretly ordered the construction of boats to prepare for the strategy of going down the river.
Yang Hu repaired weapons, trained soldiers, and made extensive preparations for war.
At this time, Shangshu said: The late emperor obeyed the will of heaven and pacified Bashu in the west, and made peace with Wu Hui in the south. The country was able to rest and recuperate, and the people had a peaceful heart.
However, the State of Wu violated its faith and caused border wars to break out again.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
夫期运虽天所授，而功业必由人而成，不一大举扫灭，则众役无时得安。
亦所以隆先帝之勋，成无为之化也。
故尧有丹水之伐，舜有三苗之征，咸以宁静宇宙，戢兵和众者也。
蜀平之时，天下皆谓吴当并亡，自此来十三年，是谓一周，平定之期复在今日矣。
议者常言吴楚有道后服，无礼先强，此乃谓侯之时耳。
当今一统，不得与古同谕。
夫适道之论，皆未应权，是故谋之虽多，而决之欲独。
凡以险阻得存者，谓所敌者同，力足自固。
苟其轻重不齐，强弱异势，则智士不能谋，而险阻不可保也。
蜀之为国，非不险也，高山寻云霓，深谷肆无景，束马悬车，然后得济，皆言一夫荷戟，千人莫当。
translation: 
Although fortune is given by God, achievements must be completed by people. Without a large-scale annihilation of the Wu Kingdom, the people will not be able to find peace.
It is also to make the late emperor's meritorious deeds more prosperous and to complete the teaching of ruling by doing nothing.
Therefore, Yao's campaign against Danshui and Shun's campaign against Sanmiao were all aimed at pacifying the world, stopping wars, and bringing happiness to the people.
When Shu was pacified, everyone in the world said that Wu Ying perished together. It has been thirteen years now, which can be said to be a week, and the day of pacification is today again.
Commentators often say that Wu and Chu were virtuous and then surrendered, and that they were rude and strong first. What Wu is talking about is the time of the princes.
The current dominance of the world cannot be compared with that of ancient times.
No speech that is in line with the Dao can adapt to changes. Therefore, although there are many strategies, there is only one hope when making a decision.
Anyone who survives by relying on danger means that the two opposing parties are equally powerful and strong enough to defend themselves.
If the forces of both sides are not equal in weight and strength, wise men will not be able to plan and dangers will not be protected.
As a country, Shu is not without dangers. The mountains tower into the clouds and the deep valleys do not see the sun. If you stand still in dangerous places, you can achieve success. It is said that one person is in charge of the barrier and a thousand people are not allowed to open it.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
及进兵之日，曾无籓篱之限，斩将搴旗，伏尸数万，乘胜席卷，径至成都，汉中诸城，皆鸟栖而不敢出。
非皆无战心，诚力不足相抗。
至刘禅降服，诸营堡者索然俱散。
今江淮之难，不过剑阁；山川之险，不过岷汉；孙皓之暴，侈于刘禅；吴人之困，甚于巴蜀。
而大晋兵众，多于前世；资储器械，盛于往时；今不于此平吴，而更阻兵相守，征夫苦役，日寻干戈，经历盛衰，不可长久，宜当时定，以一四海。
今若引梁益之兵水陆俱下，荆楚之众进临江陵，平南、豫州，直指夏口，徐、扬、青、兗并向秣陵，鼓旆以疑之，多方以误之，以一隅之吴，当天下之众，势分形散，所备皆急，巴汉奇兵出其空虚，一处倾坏，则上下震荡。
吴缘江为国，无有内外，东西数千里，以籓篱自持，所敌者大，无有宁息。
孙皓孙恣情任意，与下多忌，名臣重将不复自信，是以孙秀之徒皆畏逼而至。
将疑于朝，士困于野，无有保世之计，一定之心。
平常之日，犹怀去就，兵临之际，必有应者，终不能齐力致死，已可知也。
其俗急速，不能持久，弓弩戟盾不如中国，唯有水战是其所便。
一入其境，则长江非复所固，还保城池，则去长入短。
而官军悬进，人有致节之志，吴人战于其内，有凭城之心。
如此，军不逾时，克可必矣。
translation: 
When it came time to advance, there was almost no barrier to restrict them. They killed generals and flags, killed tens of thousands of enemies, and took advantage of the victory to sweep all the way to Chengdu. All the cities in Hanzhong were cowered and did not dare to move.
It's not that they all have no intention of fighting, they just don't have enough strength to fight.
When Liu Chan surrendered, all the people guarding the fortress dispersed in droves.
Today, Jianghuai is more difficult to attack than Jianhe; the mountains and rivers are dangerous, but not more than Minhan; Sun Hao's tyranny is greater than that of Liu Hui; the Wu people's hardship is more serious than that of Bashu.
The Jin Dynasty has more troops than before, and its reserves and equipment are stronger than before. Now, instead of pacifying Wu at this time, we will continue to defend the country with troops, recruit the people to work hard, think about fighting every day, and experience ups and downs. It cannot last long. We should make timely decisions to unify the world.
Now if Liang Yi's army marches by land and water, Jingchu's army marches to Tan, Pingnan and Suiye's armies point directly at Xia Dan, Jian, Chao, Yi, and Cha's armies march to Zhengbi together, they use drums and flags to confuse the enemy, send troops from multiple directions to make the enemy misjudge, and use the Wu State in a corner to resist the armies of the world. The troops will be scattered and the defensive areas will be in trouble. Bahan's extraordinary troops attacked the empty areas of the Wu Kingdom. If a place was breached, the top and bottom would be shaken.
Wu defended along the river, with no inside or outside, thousands of miles from east to west, and relied on barriers to defend. Their opponents were strong and there was no peace.
Sun Hao had an indulgent temperament and was very suspicious of his subordinates. Famous ministers and generals were no longer confident, so Sun Xiu and others were afraid of being forced to surrender to us.
The generals are under suspicion in the court, and the soldiers are tired in the countryside. There is no strategy to protect the court, and there is no firm belief.
In ordinary days, we still consider whether to leave or stay. When the army comes to the city, there must be people who respond. In the end, we will not work together to dedicate ourselves to the court. Now we can know it.
Wu's custom is to fight quickly and not last long. Their weapons such as bows, crossbows, halberds, and weapons are not as good as those of the great powers in the Central Plains. Their only strength is water warfare.
Once the Wu Kingdom is invaded, Zihong will no longer be a danger. Withdrawing troops to defend the city, its strengths will be lost and its weaknesses will be exposed.
As our army penetrates deep into enemy territory, everyone has the ambition to complete the great cause as soon as possible. The Wu people fight within the territory and are determined to defend the city.
In this way, the war will not be delayed and victory will be inevitable.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
帝深纳之。
会秦凉屡败，祜复表曰： 吴平则胡自定，但当速济大功耳。
而议者多不同，祜叹曰： 天下不如意，恆十居七八，故有当断不断。
天与不取，岂非更事者恨于后时哉！
其后，诏以泰山之南武阳、牟、南城、梁父、平阳五县为南城郡，封祜为南城侯，置相，与郡公同。
祜让曰： 昔张良请受留万户，汉祖不夺其志。
臣受钜平于先帝，敢辱重爵，以速官谤！
固执不拜，帝许之。
祜每被登进，常守冲退，至心素著，故特见申于分列之外。
是以名德远播，朝野具瞻，搢绅佥议，当居台辅。
帝方有兼并之志，仗祜以东南之任，故寝之。
祜历职二朝，任典枢要，政事损益，皆谘访焉，势利之求，无所关与。
其嘉谋谠议，皆焚其草，故世莫闻。
translation: 
The emperor fully adopted it.
When Taiyuan was defeated many times, Yang Hu went to the table again and said: Wu Guo will naturally be pacified after pacifying the Hu people, and the great cause of unification should be completed quickly.
However, many people who expressed opinions had different opinions. Yang Hu sighed and said: Things in the world are not as good as people want them to be. So there should be discontinuity but continuation.
If God gives you something but doesn't take it, wouldn't it make those who experience it regret later?
After that, Shaoshu ordered that the five counties of Nanwuyang, Mou, Nancheng, Liangfu and Pingyang in Taishan were designated as Nancheng County, and Yang Hu was granted the title of Nancheng Marquis, and the prime minister was set up the same as the county prince.
Yang Hu declined and said: In the past, I requested to be granted the title of Zhang Liang Ten Thousand Households, but Mo Gaozu did not go against his will.
I received a great title from the late emperor, how dare I receive a high title and be blamed for my incompetence!
Resolutely not accepting it, the emperor agreed to him.
Every time Yang Hu was promoted, he always remained humble and gave in. His sincerity was always obvious, so he gained a better reputation than his promotion.
Therefore, his reputation and virtue were far-reaching, and he was respected both inside and outside the court. All the scholars suggested that Yang Hu should be appointed as the prime minister of the Three Dukes.
皇帝正有兼并吴国的志向，依仗着羊祜在东南方任职，所以压下奏议。
Yang Hu served as a minister in two dynasties and was in charge of important positions. He was consulted on the pros and cons of political affairs. He was not involved in the pursuit of power and financial gain.
His excellent strategies and fair discussions are unknown to the world because the drafts were burned.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
凡所进达，人皆不知所由。
或谓祜慎密太过者，祜曰： 是何言欤！
夫入则造膝，出则诡辞，君臣不密之诫，吾惟惧其不及。
不能举贤取异，岂得不愧知人之难哉！
且拜爵公朝，谢恩私门，吾所不取。
祜女夫尝劝祜 有所营置，令有归戴者，可不美乎？
祜默然不应，退告诸子曰： 此可谓知其一不知其二。
人臣树私则背公，是大惑也。
汝宜识吾此意。
尝与从弟琇书曰： 既定边事，当角巾东路，归故里，为容棺之墟。
以白士而居重位，何能不以盛满受责乎！
疏广是吾师也。
祜乐山水，每风景，必造岘山，置酒言咏，终日不倦。
尝慨然叹息，顾谓从事中郎邹湛等曰： 自有宇宙，便有此山。
由来贤达胜士，登此远望，如我与卿者多矣！
皆湮灭无闻，使人悲伤。
如百岁后有知，魂魄犹应登此也。
湛曰： 公德冠四海，道嗣前哲，令闻令望，必与此山俱传。
至若湛辈，乃当如公言耳。
translation: 
Outsiders don't know the reason for everything he reports.
Some people thought that Yang Hu was too cautious. Yang Hu said: What are these words?
When you enter the palace, you should be at the knees of the king, but when you leave the palace, you should not tell the truth. This is a warning to the king and his ministers not to keep secrets. I am afraid that I have not done enough.
If you can't recommend wise people and appoint talented people, then you have to face the difficulty of knowing people!
Besides, I can't do it if I receive a title from the court and then thank a private family.
Yang Hu's son-in-law once advised him to buy some property in preparation for his retirement and return to his hometown. Wouldn't it be a good idea?
Yang Hu remained silent and did not answer. Afterwards, he told his sons: This can be said to be knowing one thing but not knowing the other.
Ministers will betray their public conscience for their own selfish desires. This is a big confusion.
You should know what I mean.
He once wrote to his cousin Yangbao: After the border is settled, I will walk eastward with a scarf on my head, return to my hometown, and prepare a cemetery that can accommodate a coffin.
I am in a high position as an ordinary citizen, how can I be blamed for pursuing wealth!
Shuguang is my teacher.
Yang Hu loves mountains and rivers. Whenever there is a good time, he will go to Xian Mountain, where he will drink wine and compose poems, working tirelessly from morning to night.
He once sighed with emotion and said to Zhonglang Sculpture and others: Ever since the universe was created, a mountain has been created.
Since then, many sages and celebrities have climbed this mountain and looked far away, just like you and me!
They all disappear at any time, which makes people think of sadness.
If there is knowledge after death, the soul should also climb this mountain.
Setun said: The virtue of the public is the best in the world. It is inherited from the philosophers of the previous generations. The beautiful reputation will be passed down together with this mountain.
As for us people, we should do what Gong said.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
祜当讨吴贼功，将进爵土，乞以赐舅子蔡袭。
诏封袭关内侯，邑三百户。
会吴人寇弋阳、江夏，略户口，诏遣侍臣移书诘祐不追讨之意，并欲移州复旧之宜。
祜曰： 江夏去襄阳八百里，比知贼问，贼去亦已经日矣。
步军方往，安能救之哉！
劳师以免责，恐非事宜也。
昔魏武帝置都督，类皆与州相近，以兵势好合恶离。
疆埸之间，一彼一此，慎守而已，古之善教也。
若辄徙州，贼出无常，亦未知州之所宜据也。
使者不能诘。
祜寝疾，求入朝。
既至洛阳，会景献宫车在殡，哀恸至笃。
中诏申谕，扶疾引见，命乘辇入殿，无下拜，甚见优礼。
及侍坐，面陈伐吴之计。
translation: 
Yang Hu was to be granted a title of land due to his meritorious service in the crusade against Wu. He requested that it be given to his uncle's son Cai Xi.
In Xia Shao, Cai Xi was granted the title of Marquis of Guannei, with a settlement of 300 households.
The Wu people invaded Yiyang and Jiangxia and plundered the population. Xia Shao sent his ministers to pass documents to question Yang Hu for not pursuing the crusade, and planned to move to the state capital and restore the original location.
Yang Hu said: Jiangxia is eight hundred miles away from Xiangyang. By the time we learned that the enemy soldiers were invading, they had already left for several days.
The infantry rushed over, how could they be saved?
I'm afraid it's not appropriate to mobilize the army to avoid blame.
In the past, Emperor Wu of the Wei Dynasty set up governors, usually close to the prefectures, because military forces were focused on concentration and not dispersion.
On the battlefield, forces wax and wane, so just defend carefully. This is a good experience from ancient times.
If the state capital is frequently moved, enemy troops appear and appear erratically, and one does not know where to locate the state capital.
The ministers who were sent could not be blamed.
Yang Hu fell ill and requested to enter the court.
When I arrived in Luoyang, I was catching up with Queen Jingxian's hearse for the funeral. I was extremely sad.
When the emperor went down to the palace, he ordered the sheep to be picked up and introduced him despite his illness. He ordered him to enter the palace in a car without having to bow down. He was treated very favorably and courteously.
After sitting down, he stated his plan to attack Wu in person.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
帝以其病，不宜常入，遣中书令张华问其筹策。
祜曰： 今主上有禅代之美，而功德未著。
吴人虐政已甚，可不战而克。
混一六合，以兴文教，则主齐尧舜，臣同稷契，为百代之盛轨。
如舍之，若孙皓不幸而没，吴人更立令主，虽百万之众，长江未可而越也，将为后患乎！
华深赞成其计。
祜谓华曰： 成吾志者，子也。
帝欲使祜卧护诸将，祜曰： 取吴不必须臣自行，但既平之后，当劳圣虑耳。
功名之际，臣所不敢居。
若事了，当有所付授，愿审择其人。
疾渐笃，乃举杜预自代。
寻卒，时年五十八。
帝素服哭之，甚哀。
是日大寒，帝涕泪沾须鬓，皆为冰焉。
南州人征市日闻祜丧，莫不号恸，罢市，巷哭者声相接。
吴守边将士亦为之泣。
其仁千所感如此。
translation: 
Because Yang Hu was ill and was not suitable for frequent visits to the court, the emperor sent Zhongshu Ling Zhang Hua to ask him for advice.
Yang Hu said: Now the emperor has the reputation of the Zen Dynasty, but his merits are not yet obvious.
The Wu people's tyranny has reached the extreme and they can win without a fight.
By unifying the world and prospering rituals, music, and laws, the emperor became as famous as Sai Shun, and the ministers and Ji Qi shared the same merits, becoming a model for hundreds of generations.
If we give up the attack on Wu, if Sun Hao unfortunately dies, and the Xingren re-establish a good monarch, even though we have millions of troops, Kuangsi will not be able to cross it, and it will become a disaster in the future!
Zhang Hua fully agreed with his strategy.
Yang Hu said to Zhang Hua: You are the one who fulfills my ambition.
The emperor planned to let Yang Hu stay in bed and monitor the generals. Jian Nian said: "I do not necessarily need to personally participate in the capture of the county. When it is pacified, the emperor should worry about it."
I should not be involved in matters involving fame.
If the matter is over, there should be someone entrusted to give and receive, and I am willing to choose the person carefully.
The illness gradually worsened, so Du Yu was elected to replace him.
He died soon after, at the age of fifty-eight.
The emperor wore plain clothes and cried for him, very sad.
It was an extremely cold day, and the emperor's snot and tears turned to ice on his beard and hair.
When people in Nanzhou heard the news of Yang La's death on market days, they all cried bitterly. Businesses were closed and the streets were filled with the sound of crying.
The soldiers guarding the border of Wu State also cried for him.
Such is the influence of his benevolence, justice and morality.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
赐以东园秘器，朝服一袭，钱三十万，布百匹。
诏曰： 征南大将军南城侯祜，蹈德冲素，思心清远。
始在内职，值登大命，乃心笃诚，左右王事，入综机密，出统方岳。
当终显烈，永辅朕躬，而奄忽殂陨，悼之伤怀。
其追赠侍中、太傅，持节如故。
祜立身清俭，被服率素，禄俸所资，皆以赡给九族，赏赐军士，家无余财。
遗令不得以南城侯印入柩。
从弟琇等述祜素志，求葬于先人墓次。
帝不许，赐去城十里外近陵葬地一顷，谥曰成。
祜丧既引，帝于大司马门南临送。
祜甥齐王攸表祜妻不以侯敛之意，帝乃诏曰： 祜固让历年，志不可夺。
translation: 
He was given a coffin specially designed for high-ranking officials and nobles, a set of court clothes, 300,000 yuan, and 100 pieces of cloth.
The edict said: The general who conquered the south, the Marquis of Nancheng Yanghu, was modest and simple in virtue, and had an honest and far-reaching mind.
I began to serve in the imperial court at the time when I accepted the destiny and was loyal to the emperor. I assisted in the king's affairs, held great power in the imperial court, and served as the commander-in-chief in the local area.
He should have been prominent for a long time and always assisted me. But when he died suddenly, it is sad to mourn him.
As a posthumous gift to the attendants and tutors, they should maintain integrity as before.
Yang Hu was an honest and frugal person. He wore simple quilts and clothes. All the salary he received was used to support his tribe and rewarded his soldiers. He had no extra property in his family.
He left a will not to put Nancheng Houyin in the coffin.
Cousin Yang You and others stated Yang Hu's usual aspirations and requested that Yang Hu be buried in the cemetery of his ancestors.
The emperor refused and granted him a hectare of burial land ten miles away from the city, close to the imperial mausoleum, and the name Mi was granted.
When Yang Hu was buried, the emperor saw him off south of Da Sima Gate.
Yang Hu's nephew, King Sima You of Qi, expressed the intention of Yang Hu's wife not to bury Yang Hu as a marquis. The emperor issued an edict saying: Yang Hu has resolutely resigned for many years, and his ambition cannot be taken away.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
身没让存，遗操益厉，此夷叔所以称贤，季子所以全节也。
今听复本封，以彰高美。
初，文帝崩，祜谓傅玄曰： 三年之丧，虽贵遂服，自天子达；而汉文除之，毁礼伤义，常以叹息。
今主上天纵至孝，有曾闵之性，虽夺其服，实行丧礼。
丧礼实行，除服何为邪！
若因此革汉魏之薄，而兴先王之法，以敦风俗，垂美百代，不亦善乎！
玄曰： 汉文以末世浅薄，不能行国君之丧，故因而除之。
除之数百年，一旦复古，难行也。
祜曰： 不能使天下如礼，且使主上遂服，不犹善乎！
玄曰： 主上不除而天下除，此为但有有父子，无复君臣，三纲之道亏矣。
祜乃止。
祜所著文章及为《老子传》并行于世。
translation: 
After death, humility still survives, and the conduct left behind is even more inspiring. This is why Boyi and Shuqi are called virtuous, and why Ji Zi can keep his reputation.
Now let it be restored to its original conferment in recognition of virtue.
When Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty passed away, Yang Hu said to Fu Xuan: "Three years of mourning, although the most important thing is to mourn according to etiquette, from the emperor to the common people, but Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty abolished it, destroyed the etiquette system and harmed the principles. I often sigh for this."
Today, the emperor is extremely filial and has the character to have participated in the Alliance. Although mourning clothes have been cancelled, funeral rites are still carried out.
Since funerals are carried out, why do we need to cancel mourning clothes?
Wouldn't it be great if we reformed the weak mourning system of Han and Wei dynasties and revived the laws of the previous kings, thus making the customs honest and leaving a good reputation for generations?
Fu Xuan said: Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty was unable to carry out the funeral ceremony of the king because of his shallowness in the last days, so he abolished it.
It has been canceled for hundreds of years. Once it is restored, it will be difficult to implement it.
Yang Hu said: "We cannot make everyone in the world practice funeral rites. How about we make the king mourn in formal attire?"
Fu Xuan said: If the king of the country does not abolish it, the world will abolish it. This is only the principle of father and son, and there will no longer be the principle of monarch and ministers. The Three Cardinal Guidelines will be damaged.
Yang Hu then gave up.
The articles written by Yang Hu and "The Biography of Laozi" have been spread all over the world.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
襄阳百姓于岘山祜平生游憩之所建碑立庙，岁时飨祭焉。
望其碑者莫不流涕，杜预因名为堕泪碑。
荆州人为祜讳名，屋室皆以门为称，改户曹为辞曹焉。
祜开府累年，谦让不辟士，始有所命，会卒，不得除署。
故参佐刘侩、赵寅、刘弥、孙勃等笺诣预曰： 昔以谬选，忝备官属，各得与前征南大将军祜参同庶事。
祜执德冲虚，操尚清远，德高而体卑，位优而行恭。
前膺显命，来抚南夏，既有三司之仪，复加大将军之号。
虽居其位，不行其制。
至今海内渴伫，群俊望风。
涉其门者，贪夫反廉，懦夫立志，虽夷惠之操，无以尚也。
自镇此境，政化被乎江汉，潜谋远计，辟国开疆，诸所规摹，皆有轨量。
志存公家，以死勤事，始辟四掾，未至而陨。
translation: 
The people of Xiangyang erected stone tablets and built temples at the place where Xian Goat Hu visited and rested, and offered sacrifices on time every year.
Everyone who saw the stele shed tears, so Du Yu named the stele the stele of tears.
People in Jingzhou avoided the taboo word "Hu" for Yang Hu. Houses were called doors instead of households, and Hu Cao was changed to Ci Cao.
Yang Hu had been building the government office for many years, and he was humble and did not recruit subordinate officials. He had just been appointed, and just in time to catch up with his death, he was unable to take up an official position in the government office.
His counselors Liu Yi, Pao Yin, Liu Mi, Sun Bo and others wrote to Du Yu saying: In the past, because we were elected, we were filled up in the government, so that we could all participate in state affairs together with Yang Hu, the general who went to the south.
Yang Hu has a humble character, noble conduct, high virtue and modesty, and a high and respectful position.
In the past, he accepted a high position and came to pacify Southern Xia. He not only enjoyed the etiquette of the Third Division, but also had the title of general.
Although he is in such a high position, he does not enjoy the corresponding etiquette.
To this day, the world admires and misses him, and heroes long to see his grace.
Those who worked with him became incorruptible if they were greedy, and established ambitions if they were timid. Even Boyi and King Liu's moral integrity could not compare with him.
Since he has been pacifying this place, his education has spread throughout Jianghan, and he has made far-sighted plans to expand the country's borders. All his plans have laws and regulations.
He devoted himself to the country, worked diligently and ignored life and death, recruited subordinate officials, and died before he was appointed.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
夫举贤报国，台辅之远任也；搜扬侧陋，亦台辅之宿心也；中道而废，亦台辅之私恨也。
履谦积稔，晚节不遂，此远近所以为之感痛者也。
昔召伯所憩，爱流甘棠；宣子所游，封殖其树。
夫思其人，尚及其树，况生存所辟之士，便当随例放弃者乎！
乞蒙列上，得依已至掾属。
预表曰： 祜虽开府而不备僚属，引谦之至，宜见显明。
及扶疾辟士，未到而没，家无胤嗣，官无命士，此方之望，隐忧载怀。
夫笃终追远，人德归厚，汉祖不惜四千户之封，以慰赵子弟心。
请议之。
诏不许。
祜卒二岁而吴平，群臣上寿，帝执爵流涕曰： 此羊太傅之功也。
因以克定之功，策告祜庙，仍依萧何故事，封其夫人。
策曰： 皇帝使谒者杜宏告故侍中、太傅钜平成侯祜：昔吴为不恭，负险称号，郊境不辟，多历年所。
祜受任南夏，思静其难，外扬王化，内经庙略，著德推诚，江汉归心，举有成资，谋有全策。
昊天不吊，所志不卒，朕用悼恨于厥心。
乃班命群帅，致天之讨，兵不逾时，一征而灭，畴昔之规，若合符契。
夫赏不失劳，国有彝典，宜增启土宇，以崇前命，而重违公高让之素。
今封夫人夏侯氏万岁乡君，食邑五千户，又赐帛万匹，谷万斛。
translation: 
It is Taifu's responsibility to recommend worthy people to serve the country; it is Taifu's wish to search for and reuse talents who live in seclusion; it is Taifu's regret to give up halfway.
He was humble throughout his life, but failed to get what he wanted in his later years. This is why people near and far are sad for him.
Where Zhaobo rested in the past, Gantang became a symbol of love; where Xuanzi traveled, people planted trees to commemorate him.
Missing this person can be extended to the tree, not to mention the people he recruited during his lifetime. Shouldn't he abandon them according to custom?
Begging to be told upwards so that those people can be treated as subordinate officials.
The silk hanging table said: Although Yu Yu started to build the government office without appointing subordinate officials and staff, his extreme humility is obvious.
He recruited his staff despite being ill, but he died before they arrived. There is no one in the family to inherit the government, and there are no appointed officials. People in this area feel sad and sad.
By honoring the memory of those who have passed away sincerely, people's virtues will return to their generosity, and they will not hesitate to grant four thousand households a fiefdom to soothe the hearts of the people of Zhao.
Please consider this matter.
It is not allowed to issue an edict.
Two years after Yang Hu's death, the state of Cheng was pacified. The ministers toasted and congratulated the emperor. The emperor held the wine glass and said with tears: This is Yang You'an's contribution.
So he reported his achievements in pacifying Yu State to Lanzhi Temple with a policy letter, and followed Xiao Bao's precedent to grant his wife a title.
The policy book said: The emperor sent an audience member Du Hong to inform the late minister and Taifu Ju Pingcheng Hou Yanghu: In the past, Wu was disrespectful and claimed the title of king by relying on dangers and obstacles. The border was not allowed to be opened up. This has been going on for many years.
Yang Ku was appointed to serve in Nanxia, ​​thinking about the disasters of the country, preaching royal teachings to the outside world, and planning major decisions of the court internally. He showed virtue and integrity, and the people of Jianghan and Han Dynasty were loyal. His actions had mature strategies and his plans had complete plans.
God failed to fulfill his ambition, and I mourn and regret this in my heart.
So he ordered the commanders to carry out the crusade according to God's will, quickly dispatched troops, and destroyed Wu in one expedition, which was very consistent with the past plan.
Rewards should not omit meritorious officials, and the country has regulations. The fiefdom should be expanded to commend the previous orders, but it violated the long-cherished wish of the Duke to be noble and modest.
Now I grant you the title of Lord of the Long Live Township of Xiahou, my wife, and a settlement of 5,000 households. I will also grant you 10,000 bolts of silk and 10,000 husks of grain.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
祜年五岁，时令乳母取所弄金环。
乳母曰： 汝先无此物。
祜即诣邻人李氏东垣桑树中探得之。
主人惊曰： 此吾亡兒所失物也，云何持去！
乳母具言之，李氏悲惋。
时人异之，谓李氏子则祜之前身也。
又有善相墓者，言祜祖墓所有帝王气，若凿之则无后，祜遂凿之。
相者见曰 犹出折臂三公 ，而祜竟堕马折臂，位至公而无子。
帝以祜兄子暨为嗣，暨以父没不得为人后。帝又令暨弟伊为祜后，又不奉诏。
帝怒，并收免之。
太康二年，以伊弟篇为钜平侯，奉祜嗣。
篇历官清慎，有私牛于官舍产犊，及迁而留之，位至散骑常侍，早卒。
translation: 
When Yang Hu was five years old, he often asked his wet nurse to bring him the golden ring he played with.
The wet nurse said: You didn't have this thing before.
Yang Hu went to his neighbor Li's mulberry tree to find the golden ring.
The owner was surprised and said: This is what my dead son lost. Why did you take it away?
The wet nurse told her the whole story, and Mrs. Li was very sad.
People at that time were surprised by this and said that Li's son was the predecessor of Yang Hu.
Some people who are good at feng shui in cemeteries said that the place where Yang Hu's ancestral tomb was located had the aura of an emperor. If the tomb was excavated, there would be no descendants, so Yang Hu excavated it.
The people at the cemetery looked at it and said that there was still a third male with a broken arm. However, Yang Hu fell off his horse and broke his arm. He held the official position of Duke but had no son.
The emperor asked Yangji, the son of Yangku's brother, to be his heir. Yangji could not be another person's descendant because his father was dead. The emperor also ordered Yangji's younger brother, Yangyi, to be Yanghu's descendant, but he did not accept it.
The emperor became angry and withdrew the edict.
In the second year of Taikang, Yangpian, Yangyi's younger brother, was appointed Marquis of Juping and succeeded Yanghu.
Sheep Pian was an honest and prudent official. A private cow gave birth to a calf in the official's cowshed, and the calf was left behind when they moved away. When the official position reaches Sanqi and often serves as a servant, he will die early.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
孝武太元中，封祜兄玄孙之子法兴为钜平侯，邑五千户。
以桓玄党诛，国除。
尚书祠部郎荀伯子上表讼之曰： 臣闻咎繇亡嗣，臧文以为深叹；伯氏夺邑，管仲所以称仁。
功高可百世不泯，滥赏无得崇朝。
故太傅、钜平侯羊祜明德通贤，国之宗主，勋参佐命，功成平吴，而后嗣阙然，烝尝莫寄。
汉以萧何元功，故绝世辄继，愚谓钜平封宜同酂国。
故太尉广陵公准党翼贼伦，祸加淮南，因逆为利，窃飨大邦。
值西朝政刑失裁，中兴因而不夺。
今王道维新，岂可不大判臧否，谓广陵国宜在削除。
故太保卫瓘本爵菑阳县公，既被横害，乃进茅土，始赠兰陵，又转江夏。
中朝名臣，多非理终，瓘功德无殊，而独受偏赏，谓宜罢其郡封，复邑菑阳，则与夺有伦，善恶分矣。
竟寝不报。
translation: 
During the Taiyuan period of Emperor Xiaowu, Faxing, the great-great-grandson son of Yangku's brother, was granted the title of Marquis of Juping, with a settlement of 5,000 households.
Because his associates with Huan Xuan were killed, the fiefdom was cancelled.
Xun Bozi, a minister of the Shangshu Temple, argued in the court: I heard that Jiu Yao had no heirs, and Zang Wen felt deeply sorry for this.
High merit can last for a hundred generations, but endless rewards cannot last forever.
The late Grand Tutor and Marquis of Juping, Yang Hu, was of perfect virtue and virtuous. He was a person respected by the country. He had the merits of assisting the destiny of heaven and plotting to pacify Wu. However, he had no heirs and no sustenance for sacrifices.
Because Xiao He had great achievements in the Han Dynasty, he did not have any successors. I think the title of Marquis Juping should be the same as that of Deng Guo.
The late Taiwei Guangling Gongzhun favored the traitor Lun and caused harm to Huainan, because rebellion actually benefited him and he occupied a large fiefdom.
The laws and regulations of the Western Dynasty at that time were unfair, and the fiefdoms were not recovered after the ZTE.
Nowadays, the royal way is reforming, how can we not distinguish right from wrong. I think Guangling Kingdom should be eliminated.
The late Taibao Qianxing's title was originally the Duke of Miaoyang County. After the persecution, he was promoted to the title. He was first given Lanling as a gift, and then transferred to Jiangxia.
Many famous ministers in China and Korea were given unjustified gifts. Wei Guan's merits were not outstanding, but he only received great rewards. I think his fief should be recovered and restored to Leiyang. This would make the donation and withdrawal fair and distinguish between good and evil.
In the end there was no result.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
祜前母，孔融女，生兄发，官至都督淮北护军。
初，发与祜同母兄承俱得病，祜母度不能两存，乃专心养发，故得济，而承竟死。
发长子伦，高阳相。
伦弟暨，阳平太守。
暨弟伊，初为车骑贾充掾，后历平南将军、都督江北诸军事，镇宛，为张昌所杀，追赠镇南将军。
祜伯父秘，官至京兆太守。
子祉，魏郡太守。
秘孙亮，字长玄，有才能，多计数。
与之交者，必伪尽款诚，人皆谓得其心，而殊非其实也。
初为太傅杨骏参军，时京兆多盗窃。
骏欲更重其法，盗百钱加大辟，请官属会议，亮曰： 昔楚江乙母失布，以为盗由令尹。
公若无欲，盗宜自止，何重法为？
骏惭而止。
累转大鸿胪。
时惠帝在长安，亮与关东连谋，内不自安，奔于并州，为刘元海所害。
亮弟陶，为徐州刺史。
杜预，字元凯，京兆杜陵人也。
祖畿，魏尚书仆射。
父恕，幽州刺史。
translation: 
Yang Hu's first mother was the daughter of Kong Rong, and she gave birth to her eldest brother Yang Shu, who became the governor of the Northern Guards.
At first, both Fu Deng and Guigu's half-brother Yu Cheng were ill. Yu La's mother considered that she could not take care of two people at the same time, so she concentrated on taking care of Yang Fa, and Yang Fa survived. And Yang Cheng finally died.
Yangfa's eldest son, Yanglun, has Gaoyang aspect.
Yang Lun's younger brother Yang Ji was the prefect of Kengai.
Yuji's younger brother, Shengyi, was initially a subordinate officer of the chariots and cavalry. Later, he served successively as General Pingnan, Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Jiangbei, and guarded Wan. He was killed by Zhang Dan and posthumously promoted to General Zhennan.
Yang Nian's uncle, Feng Dian, was appointed as the prefect of Zhili.
His son Feng Cha is the prefect of the Silk School.
Yuncong's grandson is in charge, named Danxuan. He is talented and resourceful.
When someone interacts with him, he must pretend to be very warm and frank. People think they understand his heart, but this is not true at all.
At first, Taifu Yang Jun joined the army. At that time, there were many thefts in Jingzhao.
Zhihui planned to aggravate the criminal law. He would be sentenced to death for stealing a hundred coins, and asked the officials and family to discuss it together. Yang Liang said: In the past, Chu Jiang Yi's mother lost her cloth and thought that the theft was due to Ling Yin.
If the public has no selfish desires, thefts should naturally stop. Why should the criminal law be aggravated?
Yang Jun was ashamed and gave up.
Jiuliang was gradually promoted to Dahonglu.
At that time, Emperor Hui was in Tongdie. Locust and Gill Shu conspired. He felt uneasy and ran to Chaiye, where he was killed by Liu Yuanhai.
Jianhao's younger brother Fuidi was the governor of Tuzhou.
Du Yu, courtesy name Yuan Kai, was born in Duling, Jingzhao.
His grandfather, Du Ji, was the official secretary of the Wei Dynasty.
His father, Du Shu, was the governor of Youzhou.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
预博学多通，明于兴废之道，常言： 德不可以企及，立功立言可庶几也。
初，其父与宣帝不相能，遂以幽死，故预久不得调。
文帝嗣立，预尚帝妹高陆公主，起家拜尚书郎，袭祖爵丰乐亭侯。
在职四年，转参相府军事。
钟会伐蜀，以预为镇西长史。
及会反，僚佐并遇害，唯预以智获免，增邑千一百五十户。
与车骑将军贾充等定律令，既成，预为之注解，乃奏之曰： 法者，盖绳墨之断例，非穷理尽性之书也。
故文约而例直，听省而禁简。
例直易见，禁简难犯。
易见则人知所避，难犯则几于刑厝。
刑之本在于简直，故必审名分。
审名分者，必忍小理。
古之刑书，铭之钟鼎，铸之金石，所以远塞异端，使无淫巧也。
translation: 
Du Yu had extensive knowledge and was familiar with the rise and fall of a country. He often said: Virtue cannot be expected to be achieved, but it is still possible to make meritorious deeds.
At first, his father and Emperor Xuan did not get along with each other, so he was removed from office and died in confinement. Therefore, Du Yu could not be called upon for a long time.
When Emperor Wen succeeded to the throne, Du Yu married the emperor's sister, Princess Gaolu, and initially served as Shangshulang, inheriting the ancestral title of Fengletinghou.
After four years in office, he was transferred to the Military Affairs Council of the Prime Minister's Office.
Zhong Hui attacked Shu and appointed Du Yu as the chief historian of Zhenxi.
Zhong Hui rebelled, and all his staff and assistants were killed. Only Du Yu escaped the disaster with his wisdom and increased the number of households by 1,150 households.
He drafted laws and regulations with Chariot General Maichong and others. After they were completed, Du Yu annotated the laws and regulations, and then reported: "The law is a decision-making regulation like a pencil ink stick, not a book that exhausts rationality."
Therefore, the wording of the regulations is simple and straightforward, and the determination of the prohibitions is clear and concise.
Regulations are straightforward and easy to distinguish; prohibitions are simple and difficult to violate.
If it is easy to distinguish, people will know to avoid breaking the law; if it is difficult to break the law, no one will break the law.
The foundation of criminal law lies in simplicity and straightforwardness, so the identity must be investigated.
When considering status, one must restrain small principles.
Ancient punishment books were engraved on bells and tripods and cast on gold and stone in order to block heretics and make them unable to reason.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
今所注皆纲罗法意，格之以名分。
使用之者执名例以审趣舍，伸绳墨之直，去析薪之理也。
诏班于天下。
泰始中，守河南尹。
预以京师王化之始，自近及远，凡所施论，务崇大体。
受诏为黜陟之课，其略曰； 臣闻上古之政，因循自然，虚己委诚，而信顺之道应，神感心通，而天下之理得。
逮至淳朴渐散，彰美显恶，设官分职，以颁爵禄，弘宣六典，以详考察。
然犹倚明哲之辅，建忠贞之司，使名不得越功而独美，功不得后名而独隐，皆畴咨博询，敷纳以言。
及至末世，不能纪远而求于密微，疑诸心而信耳目，疑耳目而信简书。
简书愈繁，官方愈伪，法令滋章，巧饰弥多。
昔汉之刺史，亦岁终奏事，不制算课，而清浊粗举。
魏氏考课，即京房之遗意，其文可谓至密。
然由于累细以违其体，故历代不能通也。
岂若申唐尧之旧，去密就简，则简而易从也。
夫宣尽物理，神而明之，存乎其人。
translation: 
What is being annotated now is all about collecting the essentials of the law and inferring them based on their titles.
Those who use the law make decisions based on the status regulations, uphold the fairness of the law, and eliminate trivial reasoning.
The edict was promulgated and implemented throughout the world.
During the Taishi period, he served as Yin of Henan.
Du Yu believed that the capital was the starting point for royal enlightenment. From near to far, all policies and measures should be prophesied in general.
Feng Shao formulated the regulations for dismissal and promotion, which roughly states: I heard that in ancient politics, people followed nature and pursued integrity with their own purity. Then there was the way of honesty and obedience; the spirit influenced the soul and communicated, and then the world's principles were achieved.
The simple atmosphere gradually dissipated, virtues were revealed and vices were revealed, official positions were established, titles and salaries were awarded, and six canons were announced for detailed inspection of officials.
However, we still need to rely on wise officials and establish loyal institutions so that the reputation will not exceed the merits and become excessively prominent, so that the merits will not lag behind the fame and be buried. Opinions must be widely solicited, and opinions must be expressed and adopted.
In the last days, if you can't govern far, you will resort to detailed regulations. If you doubt the officials, you will trust the ears and eyes. If you doubt the ears and eyes, you will trust the simple scripts.
The more complicated the simplified books are, the more hypocritical the officials are, and the more detailed the laws and regulations are, the more hypocritical they are.
In the past, the governors of the Han Dynasty also reported their work at the end of the year. There were no unified regulations for examination, and only general conditions were listed for whether their political achievements were good or bad.
The Wei family's assessment of officials, that is, the dispatch of officials from the capital, can be said to be extremely detailed.
However, because it is too detailed, it violates the original intention, so it has not been adopted in the past dynasties.
It is better to reiterate Tang Yao's old scriptures, discard the details and keep it simple, which will be simple and easy to implement.
It is human beings who can explain the common sense of things thoroughly and understand it from the heart and be able to analyze it.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
去人而任法，则以伤理。
今科举优劣，莫若委任达官，各考所统。
在官一年以后，每岁言优者一人为上第，劣者一人为下第，因计偕以名闻。
如此六载，主者总集采案，其六岁处优举者超用之，六岁处劣举者奏免之，其优多劣少者叙用之，劣多优少者左迁之。
今考课之品，所对不钧，诚有难易。
若以难取优，以易而否，主者固当准量轻重，微加降杀，不足复曲以法尽也。
《己丑诏书》以考课难成，听通荐例。
荐例之理，即亦取于风声。
六年顿荐，黜陟无渐，又非古者三考之意也。
今每岁一考，则积优以成陟，累劣以取黜。
以士君子之心相处，未有官故六年六黜清能，六进否劣者也。
监司将亦随而弹之。
若令上下公相容过，此为清议大颓，亦无取于黜陟也。
司隶校尉石鉴以宿憾奏预，免职。
translation: 
It is unreasonable to exclude people and use the law exclusively.
Nowadays, the quality of the imperial examination is not as good as appointing prominent officials to evaluate the people under their jurisdiction.
After serving for one year, the outstanding person will be selected as the superior person every year, and the poor person will be classified as the inferior person. The name will be announced at that time.
For six years like this, the people in charge collected files and appointed those with outstanding performance over the past six years. Those who had been inferior in the past six years were dismissed from their posts.
Nowadays, the evaluation of political performance is indeed divided into difficulties and difficulties because of the different conditions for holding the position.
If something is considered superior because it is difficult, or inferior because it is easy, the person in charge must weigh the severity and slightly lower the grade, without completely bending the regulations.
"Edict of Ji Chou" believes that assessment is difficult to implement and uses the method of joint recommendation.
The reason for the recommendation is also based on hearsay.
It is not recommended to be promoted after six years, and it is not in line with the original intention of the ancient three-year assessment.
Nowadays, when there is an annual assessment, those who accumulate excellent ratings will be promoted, and those who accumulate poor ratings will be dismissed.
With the heart of a scholar and a gentleman, there will be no upright officials who are dismissed six times in six years, and officials with poor performance who are promoted six times in six years.
The Supervisor will also impeach at any time.
If officials at both the upper and lower levels blatantly tolerate mistakes, it means that public opinion is completely corrupted, and it has nothing to do with the assessment for dismissal and promotion.
Shi Jian, the captain of the Sili school, impeached Du Yu because of his original resentment, and Du Yu was dismissed from office.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
时虏寇陇石，以预为安西军司，给兵三百人，骑百匹。
到长安，更除秦州刺史，领东羌校尉、轻车将军、假节。
属虏兵强盛，石鉴时为安西将军，使预出兵击之。
预以虏乘胜马肥，而官军悬乏，宜并力大运，须春进讨，陈五不可、四不须。
鉴大怒，复奏预擅饰城门官舍，稽乏军兴，遣御史槛车征诣廷尉。
以预尚主，在八议，以侯赎论，其后陇右之事卒如预策。
是时朝廷皆以预明于筹略，会匈奴帅刘猛举兵反，自并州西及河东、平阳，诏预以散侯定计省闼，俄拜度支尚书。
预乃奏立藉田，建安边，论处军国之要。
又作人排新器，兴常平仓，定谷价，较盐运，制课调，内以利国外以救边者五十余条，皆纳焉。
石鉴自军还，论功不实，为预所纠，遂相仇恨，言论喧哗，并坐免官，以侯兼本职。
数年，复拜度支尚书。
translation: 
At that time, the enemy invaded Longyou and appointed Du Yu as the military commander of Anxi, giving him 300 soldiers and 100 mounts.
When he arrived in Chang'an, he was appointed as the governor of Tongye, and concurrently as the captain of the Eastern Qiang army, the general of Qingche, and the official of Jiajie.
When the enemy was strong, Shi Jian was the general of Anxi and sent Du Yu to attack the enemy.
Si Geng believed that the enemy had strong soldiers and horses, but there was a huge disparity in strength between the government and the army. He should concentrate his forces and wait for the opportunity to attack in the spring. He stated five opinions that were not allowed and four that were not necessary.
Shi Jian was furious. He also reported that Du Yu had decorated the official residence at the city gate without authorization, and wasted military supplies by staying there. He sent the censor to deliver Du Yu to the court in a carriage.
Because Du Yu married a princess, within the scope of the eight arguments to reduce the punishment, he was treated as a marquis atonement. Later, the situation in Longyou finally turned out as Du Yu expected.
At that time, the imperial court believed that Du Yu was good at planning. When the Xiongnu commander-in-chief launched a fierce rebellion, he went from the west of Chazhou to Hedong and Pingyang. He ordered Si Yu to set up a strategy in the palace as a Sanhou, and soon he was appointed as the Minister of Zhi.
Zhu Ling then submitted a report to establish Yutian, a stable border, and other important matters of governing the country.
He also asked the producers to arrange new tools, build Changping warehouse to regulate grain prices, regulate grain prices, approve salt trafficking, formulate tax regulations, and made more than 50 suggestions that would benefit the country internally and aid the frontier fortresses externally, all of which were adopted.
When Shi Jian returned to the court from the army, his report of merit was not true, and he was impeached by Du Yu. They hated each other and had constant quarrels. Both of them were convicted and dismissed from office, and they assumed the title of marquis concurrently.
A few years later, he was appointed Shangshu of Duzhi.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
元皇后梓宫将迁于峻阳陵。
旧制，既葬，帝及群臣即吉。
尚书奏，皇太子亦宜释服。
预议 皇太子宜复古典，以谅闇终制 ，从之。
预以时历差舛，不应晷度，奏上《二元乾度历》，行于世。
预又以孟津渡险，有覆没之患，请建河桥于富平津。
议者以为殷周所都，历圣贤而不作者，必不可立故也。
预曰：  造舟为梁 ，则河桥之谓也。
及桥成，帝从百僚临会，举觞属预曰： 非君，此桥不立也。
对曰： 非陛下之明，臣亦不得施其微巧。
周庙欹器，至汉东京犹在御坐。
汉末丧乱，不复存，形制遂绝。
预创意造成，奏上之，帝甚嘉叹焉。
咸宁四年秋，大霖雨，蝗虫起。
预上疏多陈农要，事在《食货志》。
translation: 
The coffin of Queen Yuan will be moved to Junyang Mausoleum.
The old system was that after the burial, the emperor and his ministers were in mourning.
According to the minister's report, the crown prince should also remove his mourning clothes.
Du Yu suggested that the crown prince should restore ancient laws and mourn according to the emperor's wishes, and he obeyed.
Because the calendar at that time had errors and did not match the regular scales, Du Yu wrote the "Dual Dual Calendar", which became popular in the world.
Du Yu also requested to build a river bridge in Fupingjin because the Mengjin ferry was dangerous and there was a hidden danger of ships being sunk.
The reviewers believed that it was the place where the Yin and Zhou dynasties built their capital. Since the sages of the past dynasties had not built it, there must be a reason why it could not be built.
Du Yu said: "Building boats and building bridges" refers to building bridges on the river.
When the bridge was completed, the emperor and officials went to inspect it. They raised their glasses and said to Du Yu: If it weren't for you, this bridge couldn't be built.
Du Yu said: If it weren't for His Majesty's wisdom, I wouldn't be able to achieve this.
The water container from the Zhou Dynasty was still beside the emperor's throne when it arrived in Han Dynasty.
Due to the war in Momo, it no longer exists, and its shape and scale have not been passed down.
Du Yu creatively built it and reported it to the emperor. The emperor was very happy and praised it.
In the autumn of the fourth year of Xianning, heavy rains continued and locusts were infested.
Du Yu wrote a book about important matters for promoting agriculture, which were recorded in "Shi Huo Zhi".


Chunk 25: 
original: 
预在内七年，损益万机，不可胜数，朝野称美，号曰 杜武库 ，言其无所不有也。
时帝密有灭吴之计，而朝议多违，唯预、羊祜、张华与帝意合。
祜病，举预自代，因以本官假节行平东将军，领征南军司。
及祜卒，拜镇南大将军、都督荆州诸军事，给追锋车，第二驸马。
预既至镇，缮甲兵，耀威武，乃简精锐，袭吴西陵督张政，大破之，以功增封三百六十五户。
政，吴之名将也，据要害之地，耻以无备取败，不以所丧之实告于孙皓。
预欲间吴边将，乃表还其所获之众于皓。
皓果召政，遣武昌监刘宪代之。
故大军临至，使其将帅移易，以成倾荡之势。
预处分既定，乃启请伐吴之期。
帝报待明年方欲大举，预表陈至计曰： 自闰月以来，贼但敕严，下无兵上。
translation: 
During Du Yu's seven years in the court, he made countless reforms in various government affairs. He was praised both inside and outside the court, calling him "Du Wuku" and saying that there was no success that he did not participate in.
At that time, the emperor secretly had a plan to destroy the state of Wu, but most of the discussions in the court were contrary to this. Only Du Yu, Yang Hu, and Zhang Hua were in agreement with the emperor.
When Yang Hu fell ill, he recommended Du Yu to replace him, so he used his original official position as a leave to replace General Ping Cambodia and also conquered the Southern Army Division.
After Yang Hu's death, he paid homage to the general of Zhennan and the commander-in-chief of all the military forces in Jingzhou, and gave him a chariot and a second son-in-law.
After Du Yu took office, he repaired mail weapons, showed force, selected elites, attacked Wu Xiling and governor Zhang Zheng, defeated the enemy army, and increased the number of food households by 365 households due to his meritorious service.
Zhang Zheng was a famous general in the Wu Kingdom. He occupied a key position. He was ashamed of his unpreparedness and failed, and did not tell Sun Hao the truth about the casualties.
Du Huan wanted to alienate the Wu border generals, so he sent a petition to return the captured Wu soldiers to Sun Hao.
As expected, Sun Hao summoned Zhang Zheng and sent Wuchang Supervisor Liu Xian to replace Zhang Zheng.
Therefore, when the army arrived, Wu Guozheng changed his generals, which led to annihilation.
After Du Yu made the arrangements, he reported the date for the crusade against Wu.
The emperor replied that large-scale operations could not be carried out until next year. Du Yu listed the best strategy and said: Since the leap month, the enemy has only been on alert, and no troops have been raised downstream.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
以理势推之，贼之穷计，力不两完，必先护上流，勤保夏口以东，以延视息，无缘多兵西上，空其国都。
而陛下过听，便用委弃大计，纵敌患生。
此诚国之远图，使举而有败，勿举可也。
事为之制，务从完牢。
若或有成，则开太平之基；不成，不过费损日月之间，何惜而不一试之！
若当须后年，天时人事不得如常，臣恐其更难也。
陛下宿议，分命臣等随界分进，其所禁持，东西同符，万安之举，未有倾败之虑。
臣心实了，不敢以暧昧之见自取后累。
惟陛下察之。
预旬月之中又上表曰： 羊祜与朝臣多不同，不先博画而密与陛下共施此计，故益令多异。
凡事当以利害相较，今此举十有八九利，其一二止于无功耳。
其言破败之形亦不可得，直是计不出已，功不在身，各耻其前言，故守之也。
自顷朝廷事无大小，异意锋起，虽人心不同，亦由恃恩不虑后难，故轻相同异也。
translation: 
Judging from the rational situation, the enemy is short of troops and cannot protect both ends. He must first protect the upper stream and try his best to protect the lower stream. He will live in an ignoble manner and will not send a large number of troops westward to empty the capital.
But His Majesty misheard, so he abandoned his plan and indulged the enemy.
Conquering Wu is indeed the country's long-term plan. If action will lead to failure, there is no need to take action.
The policy of attacking Wu is to ensure safety.
If you succeed, you will be able to create a Taiping foundation; if you fail, it will just take some time, so why not give it a try!
If we wait until the year after tomorrow, the weather and personnel will not remain unchanged, and I am afraid that it will be even more difficult to defeat Wu.
His Majesty's previous opinion was to order us to march separately in the territory we guarded. The restraints on the troops should be the same in the east and west. This is a foolproof plan and there is no worry of failure.
I do understand in my heart, and I dare not seek trouble with vague opinions.
Please consider it, Your Majesty.
More than ten days later, Du Yu wrote again: "Yang Hu has many differences with the ministers of the imperial court. Instead of planning extensively first, he secretly implemented this plan with His Majesty, which aroused even more different opinions."
Everything should be done by comparing the pros and cons. Now this action is nine out of ten beneficial, and the other one or two are nothing more than futile.
Those who talk about ruined situations are also impossible, but because the strategy did not come from themselves and the credit does not come from themselves, everyone is ashamed of his previous remarks, so he insists on his own opinion.
Recently, the imperial court has different opinions on both big and small matters. Although people's hearts are different, and because they rely on favor and do not consider the consequences, they easily express the same or opposite opinions.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
昔汉宣帝议赵充国所上，事效之后，诘责诸议者，皆叩头而谢，以塞异端也。
自秋已来，讨贼之形颇露。
若今中止，孙皓怖而生计，或徙都武昌，更完修江南诸城，远其居人，城不可攻，野无所掠，积大船于夏口，则明年之计或无所及。
时帝与中书令张华围棋，而预表适至。
华推枰敛手曰： 陛下圣明神武，朝野清晏，国富兵强，号令如一，吴主荒淫骄虐，诛杀贤能，当今讨之，可不劳而定。
帝乃许之。
预以太康元年正月，陈兵于江陵，遣参军樊显、尹林、邓圭、襄阳太守周奇等率众循江西上，授以节度，旬日之间，累克城邑，皆如预策焉。
又遣牙门管定、周旨、伍巢等率奇兵八百，泛舟夜渡，以袭乐乡，多张旗帜，起火巴山，出于要害之地，以夺贼心。
吴都督孙歆震恐，与伍延书曰： 北来诸军，乃飞渡江也。
translation: 
In the past, Emperor Moxuan commented on Zhao Chongguo's superiority. After the incident came to pass, he scolded those who disagreed and kowtowed to apologize, in order to block heresy.
Since the autumn, the situation of crusade against the enemy has been initially revealed.
If it is stopped now and Sun Hao is afraid and comes up with a plan, maybe moving the capital to Wuchang, further improving and building the cities in the south of the Yangtze River, moving the residents to distant places, the cities cannot be attacked, there is nothing to plunder in the fields, and accumulating large ships in Xiakou, then next year's plan may come to nothing.
At that time, the emperor was playing Go with Zhongshu Ling Zhang Hua, and Du Yu's above table happened to be delivered.
Zhang Hua pushed away the chessboard and said in his hand: Your Majesty is wise and powerful, the court is peaceful both inside and outside, the country is rich and the military is strong, and your orders are consistent. The king of Wu State was dissolute and tyrannical. Killing the virtuous and conquering Wu now can be done without any effort.
The emperor agreed.
In the first month of the first year of Taikang, Du Yu sent troops to Jiangling. He sent troops such as Fan Xian, Yin Lin, Deng Gui, and Xiangyang Governor Zhou Qi to lead the army along the western Liaoning. He was granted control and dispatch authority. Within ten days, he continuously captured the city, just as Du Yu expected.
He also sent Yamen Guangshang, Qie Zhi, Yuken and others to lead a surprise force of 800 people to cross at night by boat and attack Lexiang. They set up many flags, lit fires in Bashan, and moved in key places to weaken the enemy's confidence.
Sun Xin, the governor of Wu, was extremely panicked and wrote to Wu Yan: The armies from the north flew across the river.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
吴之男女降者者万余口，旨、巢等伏兵乐乡城外。
歆遣军出距王浚，大败而还。
旨等发伏兵，随歆军而入，歆不觉，直至帐下，虏歆而还。
故军中为之谣曰： 以计代战一当万。
于是进逼江陵。
吴督将伍延伪请降而列兵登陴，预攻克之。
既平上流，于是沅湘以南，至于交广，吴之州郡皆望风归命，奉送印绶，预仗节称诏而绥抚之。
凡所斩及生获吴都督、监军十四，牙门、郡守百二十余人。
又因兵威，徙将士屯戍之家以实江北，南郡故地各树之长吏，荆土肃然，吴人赴者如归矣。
王浚先列上得孙歆头，预后生送歆，洛中以为大笑。
时众军会议，或曰： 百年之寇，未可尽克。
今向暑，水潦方降，疾疫将起，宜俟来冬，更为大举。
预曰： 昔乐毅藉济西一战以并强齐，今兵威已振，譬如破竹，数节之后，皆迎刃而解，无复著手处也。
遂指授群帅，径造秣陵。
所过城邑，莫不束手。
议者乃以书谢之。
孙皓既平，振旅凯入，以功进爵当阳县侯，增邑并前九千六百户，封子耽为亭侯，千户，赐绢八千匹。
初，攻江陵，吴人知预病瘿，惮其智计，以瓠系狗颈示之，每大树似瘿，辄斫使白，题曰： 杜预颈。
及城平，尽捕杀之。
预既还镇，累陈家世吏职，武非其功，请退。
translation: 
More than 10,000 Wu men and women surrendered. Danzhi, Huzhen and others ambush the army outside Luanchi City.
Jiti sent his army to fight against Wang Jun, but was defeated and returned to the city.
The ambush of Zhou Zhi and others followed Zhuti's army into the city, but Xunti did not notice it until he returned under the military tent and captured Qiang Xin.
Therefore, there was a song in the army saying: Instead of fighting, one person is worth ten thousand.
So they invaded Jiangling.
The governor of Wu State pretended to surrender and mounted his troops on the city wall, and Du Yu conquered it.
After pacifying the upper reaches, south of Yuanxiang and as far as Jiaoguang, all the prefectures and counties of Wu State came to see the wind and presented seals and ribbons. Du Yu held the talisman to appease them with the emperor's order.
Fourteen Wu governors and supervisors were killed or captured alive, as well as more than 120 Yamen and county guards.
Relying on the power of the army, the families of migrating soldiers and garrison troops were replenished in the north of the Yangtze River. The places where the southern county was past were appointed officials, and the Jing land was cleaned up. The people from Wu came to seek refuge as if they were returning home.
Wang Liao first reported that he had received Xun Ti's head, and then Si Xi sent Sun Xin alive. Luoyang regarded Sun Xin as a big joke.
At that time, the generals gathered for discussion, and some people said: The enemy has been invaded for hundreds of years and cannot be completely conquered.
Summer is coming soon, there is a lot of rain, and diseases and plagues will occur. We should wait until winter before taking any big action.
Du Yu said: In the past, Zuosu annexed the powerful Qi State with the help of Zha west. Now the military power has been strengthened and the momentum is overwhelming. After a few sessions, everything is solved and there is no longer any effort.
So he ordered the commanders to go straight to save the situation.
There was no city that did not give up resistance.
The dissenters then wrote to apologize.
After being pacified, the army triumphantly returned. Due to his meritorious service, he was promoted to the title of Marquis of Dangyang County. He increased the number of fiefs to a total of 9,600 households plus the previous ones. He named his son Du Dan the Marquis of Ting, with 1,000 households, and was given 8,000 bolts of silk.
When they first attacked Jiangling, the Wu people knew that Du Yu had a tumor on his neck. They were afraid of his plot and tied a gour around the dog's neck to display it. Whenever there is something like a lump on the big tree, it is cut down to reveal the white color and written "Du Yu Neck" on it.
When the city is captured, hunt and kill all those people.
After Du Yu returned to his post, he repeatedly stated his family background and official position, said that military service was not his specialty, and requested to retire.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
不许。
预以天下虽安，忘战必危，勤于讲武，修立泮宫，江汉怀德，化被万里。
攻破山夷，错置屯营，分据要害之地，以固维持之势。
又修邵信臣遗迹，激用淯诸水以浸原田万余顷，分疆刊石，使有定分，公私同利。
众庶赖之，号曰 杜父 。
旧水道唯沔汉达江陵千数百里，北无通路。
又巴丘湖，沅湘之会，表里山川，实为险固，荆蛮之所恃也。
预乃开杨口，起夏水达巴陵千余里，内泻长江之险，外通零桂之漕。
南土歌之曰： 后世无叛由杜翁，孰识智名与勇功。
预公家之事，知无不为。
凡所兴造，必考度始终，鲜有败事。
或讥其意碎者，预曰： 禹稷之功，期于济世，所庶几也。
预好为后世名，常言 高岸为谷，深谷为陵 ，刻石为二碑，纪其勋绩，一沈万山之下，一立岘山之上，曰： 焉知此后不为陵谷乎！
预身不跨马，射不穿札，而每任大事，辄居将率之列。
结交接物，恭而有礼，问无所隐，诲人不倦，敏于事而慎于言。
translation: 
The emperor did not allow it.
Du Yu believed that although the world was stable, he forgot that war would be dangerous; so he worked hard to teach military preparations and establish schools. Jianghan showed his kindness and his education affected all directions.
Break through the mountains and barbarians, set up military camps, occupy key areas, and stabilize the situation.
They also built the ruins of Shao Xinchen, blocked and cleared several rivers to irrigate more than ten thousand hectares of farmland, and carved stone tablets to divide the boundaries of the fields so that there were regulations and public and private benefits could be achieved at the same time.
The people trusted him and called him Father Du.
The old waterway only led from Mianhan to Jiangling for a thousand and several hundred miles, and there was no passage to the north.
Baqiu Lake, where Yuan and Hunan meet, has mountains and rivers inside and outside. It is indeed dangerous and solid, which is what Jingman relies on.
Du Yukaiyang traveled more than a thousand miles from Xiashui to Baling, eliminating water dangers in the Yangtze River internally and communicating with Linggui's water transport externally.
The South eulogized him and said: There will be no rebellion in the future generations due to Duong, who can understand the wisdom, fame and bravery.
There was nothing Du Yu knew about the public affairs that he would not do without doing it.
Everything that is built and formulated must be inspected from beginning to end, and there are very few mistakes.
Some people ridiculed him for his meticulousness, but Du Yu said: Yu Ji's achievement was to save the world, and I did the same thing.
Du Yu valued leaving a name for future generations. He often said that "high banks can become canyons, and deep valleys can become mountains and mausoleums." He carved two stone tablets to record his achievements. One stone sank under the Wanshan Mountains, and the other stood on the Xian Mountain. He said: "Who knows that they will not become mountains and mausoleums and deep valleys in the future!"
Du Yuxing didn't ride a horse and couldn't shoot through armor, but whenever there was a big event, he stood among the generals.
Make friends with others, be respectful and courteous, ask them nothing to hide, teach others tirelessly, be smart in doing things and cautious in speaking.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
既立功之后，从容无事，乃耽思经籍，为《春秋左氏经传集解》。
又参考众家谱第，谓之《释例》。
又作《盟会图》、《春秋长历》，备成一家之学，比老乃成。
又撰《女记赞》。
当时论者谓预文义质直，世人未之重，唯秘书监挚虞赏之，曰： 左丘明本为《春秋》作传，而《左传》遂自孤行，《释例》本为《传》设，而所发明何但《左传》，故亦孤行。
时王济解相马，又甚爱之，而和峤颇聚敛，预常称 济有马癖，峤有钱癖 。
武帝闻之，谓预曰： 卿有何癖？
对曰： 臣有《左传》癖。
预在镇，数饷遗洛中贵要。
或问其故，预曰： 吾但恐为害，不求益也。
预初在荆州，因宴集，醉卧斋中。
外人闻呕吐声，窃窥于户，止见一大蛇垂头而吐。
闻者异之。
translation: 
After achieving meritorious service, he took it easy and indulged himself in the classics and wrote "Collected Commentary of Zuo's Classics in the Spring and Autumn Period".
He also referred to the genealogy of each family and wrote "Explanation of Examples".
He also wrote "Picture of the Alliance" and "Chunqiu Long Calendar", forming a family study, which was completed when he was almost old.
He also wrote "Praise to Women".
Commentators at the time said that Du Yu's writing was straightforward and unpretentious, and was not valued by the world. Only secretary Zhi Yu praised it and said: Zuo Qiuming originally wrote a biography of "Spring and Autumn", and "Zuo Zhuan" became independent in the world. "Explanatory Notes" was originally written for "Zhuan", but it expounded more than "Zuo Zhuan", so it is unique in the world.
At that time, Wang Nai knew how to tell horses and loved horses very much, and Nian Neng was very good at amassing money. Zhu Yu often said that "Wang Zha has a horse addiction, and Nie Wan has a money addiction."
After Genshi heard about it, he said to Zhuxuan: What is your hobby?
He replied: I have a "Zuo Zhuan" addiction.
When Du Yu was in the town, he coveted gifts to the powerful and important people in Luoyang many times.
Someone told him the reason, Du Yu said: I am afraid that they will do bad things, and I do not seek any benefits.
When Du Yu first arrived in Jingzhou, he fell drunk in the house because of a party.
People outside heard the sound of vomiting, peeked into the house secretly, and saw a big snake lowering its head and vomiting.
People who heard about it thought it was strange.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
其后征为司隶校尉，加位特进，行次邓县而卒，时年六十三。
帝甚嗟悼，追赠征南大将军、开府仪同三司，谥曰成。
预先为遗令曰： 古不合葬，明于终始之理，同于无有也。
中古圣人改而合之，盖以别合无在，更缘生以示教也。
自此以来，大人君子或合或否，未能知生，安能知死，故各以己意所欲也。
吾往为台郎，尝以公事使过密县之邢山。
山上有冢，问耕父，云是郑大夫祭仲，或云子产之冢也，遂率从者祭而观焉。
其造冢居山之顶，四望周达，连山体南北之正而邪东北，向新郑城，意不忘本也。
其隧道唯塞其后而空其前，不填之，示藏无珍宝，不取于重深也。
山多美石不用，必集洧水自然之石以为冢藏，贵不劳工巧，而此石不入世用也。
君子尚其有情，小人无利可动，历千载无毁，俭之致也。
吾去春入朝，因郭氏丧亡，缘陪陵旧义，自表营洛阳城东首阳之南为将来兆域。
而所得地中有小山，上无旧冢。
其高显虽未足比邢山，然东奉二陵，西瞻宫阙，南观伊洛，北望夷叔，旷然远览，情之所安也。
故遂表树开道，为一定之制，至时皆用洛水圆石，开遂道南向，仪制取法于郑大夫，欲以俭自完耳。
棺器小敛之事，皆当称此。
子孙一以遵之。
translation: 
Later, he was conscripted as Sili Xiaowei, and was promoted to a special rank. He died while traveling to Deng County at the age of sixty-three.
The emperor expressed his condolences and gave posthumously the titles of General Zhengnan and Kaifu Yitong.
Du Yu made a will in advance and said: "In ancient times, people were not buried together. I understand the truth from beginning to end, just like starting from something to nothing."
The saints in the Middle Ages were buried together, probably because they were not buried separately, but because they were alive to show their enlightenment.
From then on, gentlemen were buried together or separately. They could not know life, so how could they know death?
When I was working as a Tailang, I once passed by Xingshan in Mi County on official business.
There was a tomb on the mountain. When I asked the farmer, he said it was Dr. Zheng's memorial to Zhong, or it was the tomb of Zichan, so he led his entourage to pay homage and watch.
The tomb is built on the top of a mountain, with a wide view on all sides. It connects the middle of the north and south of the mountain and is tilted to the northeast, facing Xinzheng City, which shows that we have not forgotten our roots.
The tunnel blocks the back of the tomb and leaves the front empty without filling it with earth, which means that there are no treasures in the tomb and the method of deep burial is not adopted.
There are many beautiful stones on the mountain but they are not used. We must collect natural stones from the Lishui River to build the tomb. The purpose is not to waste labor, but these stones have no use in the world.
The gentleman praised the tomb for its friendship and meaning, but the villain had no profit. It has not been destroyed after thousands of years. This is because it was buried sparsely.
When I entered the imperial court last spring, because of the death of the Guo family, according to the old regulations of the mausoleum, I proposed to build a future cemetery south of Shushouyang in Luoyang City.
There is a hill in the middle of the obtained area, and there are no old tombs on it.
Although it is not as tall as Xingshan Mountain, it is close to the Erling Tombs in the east, the palace can be seen in the west, Yishui and Luoshui can be seen in the south, and Boyi and Shuqi can be seen in the north. The place is open and has a wide view, making it a safe place to rest.
Therefore, trees were planted to clear the way and construction was carried out according to a certain system. At that time, all the round stones from Luoshui will be used to open a tunnel to the south. The etiquette will be imitated by Dr. Zheng, hoping to improve himself with a thin burial.
Coffins, small burials and other matters should be commensurate with this.
The descendants fully abide by the will.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
子锡嗣。
锡字世嘏。
少有盛名，起家长沙王乂文学，累迁太子中舍人。
性亮直忠烈，屡谏愍怀太子，言辞恳切，太子患之。
后置针著锡常所坐处氈中，刺之流血。
他日，太子问锡： 向著何事？
锡对： 醉不知。
太子诘之曰： 君喜责人，何自作过也。
后转卫将军长史。
赵王伦篡位，以为治书御史。
孙秀求交于锡，而锡拒之，秀虽衔之，惮其名高，不敢害也。
惠帝反政，迁吏部郎、城阳太守，不拜，仍迁尚书左丞。
年四十八卒，赠散骑常侍。
子乂嗣，在《外戚传》。
史臣曰：泰始之际，人祇呈贶，羊公起平吴之策，其见天地之心焉。
昔齐有黔夫，燕人祭北门之鬼；赵有李牧，秦王罢东并之势。
桑枝不竞，瓜润空惭。
垂大信于南服，倾吴人于汉渚，江衢如砥，襁袂同归。
translation: 
His son Siwang succeeded him.
Du Xi's courtesy name is Shigu.
He was famous when he was young. His first official position was the literary scholar Wang Yi of Changsha, and he was gradually promoted to the crown prince.
He has an upright and loyal temperament. He has repeatedly advised the prince to express his sincerity, which makes the prince feel worried.
Later, a needle was placed in the felt where Du Xi usually sat, causing Du Xi to bleed.
Afterwards, the prince asked Du Xi: What are you doing recently?
Du Xi replied: I was drunk and didn’t know.
The prince asked: "You like to be harsh on others, why do you do wrong things yourself?"
Later he was transferred to the post of General Guard Commander Shi.
Zhao Wanglun usurped the throne and appointed him as the censor of the book.
Sun Xiu asked to date Du Xi, but Du Xi rejected him. Although Sun Xiu was resentful, she was afraid of his high reputation and did not dare to harm him.
Emperor Hui was restored to power and promoted Du Xi to the rank of official official and prefect of Chengyang. However, he did not accept the offer and promoted him to Zuocheng, the minister of finance.
When he died at the age of forty-eight, he was given as a posthumous gift a regular attendant on horseback.
His son Du Yi succeeded him, see "Biography of Foreign Relatives".
Shi Chen said: During the Taishi period, people and gods gave gifts, and Yang Gong proposed a strategy to pacify the Wu Kingdom. This shows the heart of heaven and earth.
In the past, the Qi State had Qianfu, and the Yan people worshiped ghosts at the north gate; the Zhao State had Li Mu, and the King of Qin stopped the momentum of annexing eastward.
Repay evil with kindness and eliminate old grudges.
Showing integrity in the south, the Wu people were defeated by the Han River, Jiangnan was pacified, and men, women, old and young returned home together.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
而在乎成功弗居，幅巾穷巷，落落焉其有风飚者也。
杜预不有生知，用之则习，振长策而攻取，兼儒风而转战。
孔门称四，则仰止其三；《春秋》有五，而独擅其一，不其优欤！
夫三年之丧，云无贵贱。
轻纤夺于在位，可以兴嗟；既葬释于储君，何其斯酷。
徇以苟合，不求其正，以当代之元良，为诸侯之庶子，檀弓习于变礼者也，杜预其有焉。
赞曰：汉池西险，吴江左回。
羊公恩信，百万归来。
昔之誓旅，怀经罕素。
元凯文场，称为武库。
translation: 
As for success without taking any credit, he wears a scarf and lives in a poor alley. He is a generous and generous person.
Du Yu didn't know it from birth, he learned it with time, attacked cities and captured towns with his whip, and turned to war in the style of a Confucian general.
Confucius praised the four major disciples, but Du Yu respected three of them; "Spring and Autumn" is divided into five schools, and Du Yu was good at one of them, isn't he excellent!
Three years of funerals, no distinction between high and low.
It is lamentable that a person with a low status surpasses a person in power; it is too cruel for the prince to take off his mourning clothes after the burial.
He obeyed casually, did not seek the right path, and regarded the most outstanding people of the contemporary era as the concubines of the princes. Tan Gong learned to adapt etiquette, and Du Yu probably had the same situation.
Praising: Choosing water is dangerous and the river turns into a whirlpool.
Zhi Cocoon is kind and faithful, and millions of people surrender.
He swore an oath to go into battle without asking for a title.
In the literary world, Du Yu can be called omniscient.


