Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 2, 2, 13]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝武皇帝者，孝景中子也。母曰王太后。
孝景四年，以皇子为胶东王。
孝景七年，栗太子废为临江王，以胶东王为太子。
孝景十六年崩，太子即位，为孝武皇帝。
孝武皇帝初即位，尤敬鬼神之祀。
元年，汉兴已六十余岁矣，天下乂安，荐绅之属皆望天子封禅改正度也。
而上乡儒术，招贤良。赵绾、王臧等以文学为公卿，欲议古立明堂城南，以朝诸侯。草巡狩封禅改历服色事未就。
会窦太后治黄老言，不好儒术，使人微得赵绾等奸利事，召案绾、臧，绾、臧自杀，诸所兴为者皆废。
后六年，窦太后崩。
其明年，上征文学之士公孙弘等。
明年，上初至雍，郊见五畤。
后常三岁一郊。
是时上求神君，舍之上林中蹄氏观。
神君者，长陵女子，以子死悲哀，故见神于先后宛若。
宛若祠之其室，民多往祠。
平原君往祠，其后子孙以尊显。
及武帝即位，则厚礼置祠之内中，闻其言，不见其人云。
是时而李少君亦以祠灶、谷道、却老方见上，上尊之。
少君者，故深泽侯入以主方。
匿其年及所生长，常自谓七十，能使物，却老。
其游以方遍诸侯。
无妻子。
人闻其能使物及不死，更馈遗之，常余金钱帛衣食。
人皆以为不治产业而饶给，又不知其何所人，愈信，争事之。
少君资好方，善为巧发奇中。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaowu was the middle son of Emperor Xiaojing, and his mother was the Queen Mother.
In the fourth year of Xiaojing's reign, Emperor Wu was granted the title of King of Jiaodong as a prince.
In the seventh year of Xiaojing's reign, Prince Li was deposed as King Linjiang and King Jiaodong was established as Crown Prince.
Emperor Xiaojing died after reigning for sixteen years, and the prince ascended the throne, becoming Emperor Xiaowu.
When Emperor Xiaowu came to the throne, he paid special attention to worshiping ghosts and gods.
In the first year of Jianyuan, the Han Dynasty had been established for more than sixty years, and the world was peaceful and peaceful. Officials all hoped that the emperor would hold a Zen ceremony and change the new year-end kimono color system.
The emperor also believed in Confucian scholarship and recruited talented people. Zhao Wan, Wang Zang and others were granted the title of minister because of their knowledge. They wanted to imitate ancient times and suggested that the emperor build a Mingtang in the south of the city to clarify politics and religion, and use it as a place for princes to meet the emperor. The plans they drafted for hunting tours, conferring Zen, and reforming the calendar and uniforms have not yet been completed.
Encountering that Empress Dowager Dou liked the teachings of Huangdi and Laozi, but disliked Confucian scholarship, she sent people to secretly observe Zhao Wan and others' illegal profit-seeking deeds, and summoned Zhao Wan and Wang Zang to investigate the case. Zhao Wan and Wang Zang committed suicide, and many of the measures they proposed were abolished.
Six years later, Queen Mother Dou died.
The next year, the emperor recruited Gongsun Hong and others, who were knowledgeable people.
In the second year, the emperor came to Yong County for the first time and held a suburban sacrifice in Wujie.
From then on, the Suburban Festival was often held every three years.
At that time, the emperor invited a divine monarch to enshrine her in the Tishi Temple in Shanglin Garden.
This divine king was actually a woman from Changling who died of grief over the death of her son. After her death, the spirit appeared in her sister-in-law Wanruo.
It was as if he worshiped her in his own home, and later many people went to worship her.
The emperor's maternal grandmother Pingyuan Jun also went to worship the country, and her descendants became prominent officials.
After Emperor Wu came to the throne, he invited her to the palace with generous gifts to worship her in the temple. But I could only hear her voice, but couldn't see her person.
At that time, Li Shaojun came to see the emperor because he knew how to bring good fortune to the ancestral stove, eat grains instead of fire, guide spiritual energy and achieve immortality. The emperor respected him very much.
Li Shaojun was recommended by the late Marquis Shenze to manage the alchemy affairs.
He concealed his true age and place of birth. He often said that he was seventy years old and could drive ghosts and make people immortal.
He traveled everywhere and relied on his alchemy skills to make friends with princes.
He has no wife or children.
People heard that he could drive away ghosts and make people immortal, so they rushed to give him gifts, so he had a lot of money, silk fabrics, clothes and food.
Everyone thought that he was rich without managing the property, and did not know where he was from, so they believed in him even more and rushed to serve him.
Li Shaojun is good at alchemy and is good at guessing hidden things and telling some secrets of the target person.
summary:
Emperor Xiaowu, the middle son of Emperor Xiaojing, ascended the throne after his father's sixteen-year reign. Upon becoming emperor, he showed particular devotion to worshipping ghosts and gods. During the early years of his reign, the Han Dynasty had enjoyed over sixty years of peace, and officials hoped the emperor would perform the Feng and Shan sacrifices to heaven and earth. The emperor, favoring Confucian scholarship, recruited talented individuals like Zhao Wan and Wang Zang, who proposed building a Mingtang for political and religious clarification. However, Empress Dowager Dou, who favored Huang-Lao teachings, opposed Confucianism, leading to Zhao Wan and Wang Zang's suicides and the abandonment of their plans. After the empress dowager's death six years later, the emperor recruited Gongsun Hong and others, and began performing suburban sacrifices every three years.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
尝从武安侯饮，坐中有年九十余老人，少君乃言与其大父游射处，老人为儿时从其大父行，识其处，一坐尽惊。
少君见上，上有故铜器，问少君。
少君曰： 此器齐桓公十年陈于柏寝。
已而案其刻，果齐桓公器。
一宫尽骇，以少君为神，数百岁人也。
少君言于上曰： 祠灶则致物，致物而丹沙可化为黄金，黄金成以为饮食器则益寿，益寿而海中蓬莱仙者可见，见之以封禅则不死，黄帝是也。
臣尝游海上，见安期生，食臣枣，大如瓜。
安期生仙者，通蓬莱中，合则见人，不合则隐。
于是天子始亲祠灶，而遣方士入海求蓬莱安期生之属，而事化丹沙诸药齐为黄金矣。
居久之，李少君病死。
天子以为化去不死也，而使黄锤史宽舒受其方。求蓬莱安期生莫能得，而海上燕齐怪迂之方士多相效，更言神事矣。
亳人薄诱忌奏祠泰一方，曰： 天神贵者泰一，泰一佐曰五帝。
古者天子以春秋祭泰一东南郊，用太牢具，七日，为坛开八通之鬼道。
于是天子令太祝立其祠长安东南郊，常奉祠如忌方。
其后人有上书，言 古者天子三年一用太牢具祠神三一：天一，地一，泰一 。
天子许之，令太祝领祠之忌泰一坛上，如其方。
后人复有上书，言 古者天子常以春秋解祠，祠黄帝用一枭破镜；冥羊用羊；祠马行用一青牡ǔ马；泰一、皋山山君、地长用牛；武夷君用干鱼；阴阳使者以一牛 。
令祠官领之如其方，而祠于忌泰一坛旁。
其后，天子苑有白鹿，以其皮为币，以发瑞应，造白金焉。
其明年，郊雍，获一角兽，若麃然。有司曰： 陛下肃祗郊祀，上帝报享，锡一角兽，盖麟云。
于是以荐五畤，畤加一牛以燎。
赐诸侯白金，以风符应合于天地。
于是济北王以为天子且封禅，乃上书献泰山及其旁邑。天子受之，更以他县偿之。
常山王有罪，迁，天子封其弟于真定，以续先王祀，而以常山为郡。
然后五岳皆在天子之郡。
其明年，齐人少翁以鬼神方见上。上有所幸王夫人，夫人卒，少翁以方术盖夜致王夫人及灶鬼之貌云，天子自帷中望见焉。
于是乃拜少翁为文成将军，赏赐甚多，以客礼礼之。
translation: 
He once had a banquet with Wu'an Hou Tianfan. There was an old man in his nineties sitting with him. Li Shaojun then said that he and the old man's grandfather visited an archery place. The old man had been with his grandfather when he was a child and recognized the place. This surprised all the guests.
One time, Li Shaojun met the emperor. The emperor had an old copperware hidden in his possession and asked Shaojun.
Shaojun said: This bronze vessel was displayed on the cypress bed in the tenth year of Duke Huan of Qi.
Then he looked at the words engraved on the bronze vessel and found that it was indeed from the era of Duke Huan of Qi.
Everyone in the palace was very surprised, thinking that Shaojun was a god and a person who was hundreds of years old.
Shaojun said to the emperor: By worshiping the stove, you can attract the gods and turn the cinnabar into gold. After the gold is refined, it can be used to make eating utensils. Using these utensils can prolong your life. When you live longer, you can see the immortals on Penglai Mountain in the sea. After meeting the immortals, you can hold a Zen ceremony and you can live forever. This is what the Yellow Emperor did.
I once traveled to the sea and met An Qisheng. He brought me dates to eat, which were as big as melons.
An Qisheng is an immortal who can travel to and from Penglai Mountain. He only sees people who are consistent with his Taoism and hides those who are not.
So the emperor personally worshiped the Kitchen God, and sent alchemists to the East China Sea to visit immortals like Penglai Mountain and An Qisheng, and to turn cinnabar and other medicines into gold.
After a long time, Li Shaojun fell ill and died.
The emperor thought that he had transformed and ascended instead of dying, so he asked Kuanshu, an official in Donglai County, to continue to study Shaojun's alchemy. He searched for Penglai Mountain and Anqisheng, but he could not find it. The weird and sophisticated alchemists from Yan and Qi along the coast followed suit and wrote letters one after another about gods.
Bo Youji, a native of Hao County, reported the method of worshiping Taiyi, saying: The most noble among the gods is Taiyi, and Taiyi's auxiliary gods are the five emperors.
In ancient times, the emperor worshiped the Taiyi God in the southeastern suburbs in spring and autumn. He used Tailao, a complete animal of cattle, sheep, and pigs, to worship for seven days, and set up channels on all sides of the altar to walk on behalf of ghosts and gods.
So the emperor ordered Taizhu to build the kind of ancestral altar he mentioned in the southeastern suburbs of Chang'an, and often worshiped according to the method of Bo Yuji.
Later, someone wrote a letter saying that in ancient times, the emperor used Tailao every three years to worship the three gods: the god of heaven, the god of earth, and the god of Tai.
The emperor agreed and ordered Taizhu to worship in this way on the Taiyi altar built by Miji.
Later, someone wrote a letter saying that in ancient times, the emperor often held sacrifices to eliminate disasters and seek blessings in spring and autumn. An owl and a broken mirror were used to sacrifice the Yellow Emperor;
The emperor ordered the ancestral officials to accept sacrifices according to this method and to offer sacrifices next to the Taiyi altar built by Miu Ji.
Later, the emperor's palace kept a white deer. Some people said that making leather coins from its skin could induce auspiciousness, so platinum coins were minted.
In the second year, the emperor held a suburban sacrifice in Yong County and captured a unicorn that looked like a harpoon. The official in charge said: Your Majesty respectfully held a suburban sacrifice. In return for your sacrifice, God will give you a unicorn. This should be Qilin!
So he dedicated it to five plots, adding an ox to each plot, and burned them to repay God's gift.
For this reason, white gold was given to the princes to indicate that this auspicious omen should be in line with the will of heaven and earth.
From this, the King of Jibei thought that the emperor was going to hold a ceremony to enshrine the Zen, so he wrote to offer Mount Tai and the surrounding counties. The emperor accepted the offer and gave him other counties as compensation.
King Changshan was deposed because of his guilt and moved to Fangling. The emperor named his younger brother King Zhending to continue the sacrifice to his ancestors and set up Changshan as a county.
From then on, all the five mountains were in the counties directly under the emperor's jurisdiction.
The next year, a young man from the Qi people came to the emperor with the help of alchemy to communicate with ghosts and gods. The emperor's favorite Mrs. Wang died. The young man used the alchemy to summon the appearance of Mrs. Wang and the Kitchen God at night. The emperor saw Mrs. Wang from the curtain.
So he conferred the title of General Wencheng on the young man, rewarded him with many things, and received him with the etiquette of receiving guests.
summary:
The emperor invited a divine spirit, originally a woman from Changling who died grieving for her son, to be worshipped in the Shanglin Garden. He also honored Li Shaojun, an alchemist who claimed to be seventy years old and capable of driving ghosts and making people immortal. Li Shaojun demonstrated his powers by identifying an ancient bronze vessel and advised the emperor to worship the stove, turn cinnabar into gold, and seek immortals on Penglai Mountain to achieve immortality. The emperor followed his advice, worshipping the stove and sending alchemists to the sea. After Li Shaojun's death, the emperor believed he had ascended to immortality and continued seeking alchemists.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
文成言曰： 上即欲与神通，宫室被服不象神，神物不至。
乃作画云气车，及各以胜日驾车辟恶鬼。又作甘泉宫，中为台室，画天、地、泰一诸神，而置祭具以致天神。
居岁余，其方益衰，神不至。
乃为帛书以饭牛，详弗知也，言此牛腹中有奇。杀而视之，得书，书言甚怪，天子疑之。有识其手书，问之人，果伪书。于是诛文成将军而隐之。
其后则又作柏梁、铜柱、承露仙人掌之属矣。
文成死明年，天子病鼎湖甚，巫医无所不致，不愈。
游水发根乃言曰： 上郡有巫，病而鬼下之。
上召置祠之甘泉。
及病，使人问神君。
神君言曰： 天子毋忧病。病少愈，强与我会甘泉。
于是病愈，遂幸甘泉，病良已。
大赦天下，置寿宫神君。
神君最贵者太一，其佐曰大禁、司命之属，皆从之。
非可得见，闻其音，与人言等。
时去时来，来则风肃然也。
居室帷中，时昼言，然常以夜。
天子祓，然后入。
因巫为主人，关饮食。
所欲者言行下。
又置寿宫、北宫，张羽旗，设供具，以礼神君。
神君所言，上使人受书其言，命之曰 画法 。
其所语，世俗之所知也，毋绝殊者，而天子独喜。
其事秘，世莫知也。
其后三年，有司言元宜以天瑞命，不宜以一二数。
一元曰建元，二元以长星曰元光，三元以郊得一角兽曰元狩云。
其明年冬，天子郊雍，议曰： 今上帝朕亲郊，而后土毋祀，则礼不答也。
有司与太史公、祠官宽舒等议： 天地牲角茧栗。
今陛下亲祀后土，后土宜于泽中圜丘为五坛，坛一黄犊太牢具，已祠尽瘗，而从祠衣上黄。
于是天子遂东，始立后土祠汾阴脽上，如宽舒等议。上亲望拜，如上帝礼。
礼毕，天子遂至荥阳而还。
translation: 
General Wencheng said: If the emperor wants to communicate with the gods, the palace, bedding and other daily necessities are different from those used by the gods, and the gods will not come.
So they made cars with clouds painted on them, and drove cars of different colors on different days to drive away evil spirits. They also built Ganquan Palace. In the middle of the palace was a stage room with paintings of many gods such as Tianyi, Earthly One, and Taiyi. Sacrificial utensils were placed to attract the gods.
More than a year later, the young man's alchemy became less and less effective, and the god never came.
General Wencheng wrote some words on a piece of silk and let the cow eat it. He pretended that he didn't know anything about it, and told others that there was something strange in the belly of the cow. He killed the cow and looked at it, and got the silk book. The words in the book were very weird.
After that, white beam platforms, copper pillars and dew-bearing cactus were built.
In the second year after Wencheng's death, the emperor became seriously ill in Dinghu Palace. The witch doctors used all kinds of prescriptions, but they could not cure his illness.
A man named You Shui Fagen wrote a letter saying: There was a wizard in Shangjun, and the ghosts and spirits possessed him when he was ill.
The emperor summoned him and placed him in Ganquan Palace.
When the wizard gets sick, he sends someone to ask the god.
Shenjun said: The emperor does not need to worry about his illness. When the illness is better, please cheer up and meet me in the sweet spring.
So the emperor's illness improved a lot. He went to Ganquan Palace to offer sacrifices in person, and his illness was completely cured.
The emperor granted pardon to the whole world and placed the divine king in the longevity palace.
The most noble among the gods is Taiyi, and his assistants are Da Jin, Siming, etc., who all follow him.
The appearance of these gods is invisible, but their voices can be heard, just like human voices.
Sometimes I go and sometimes I come, and when I come there is a rustling sound of wind.
The gods lived indoors in tents and sometimes spoke during the day, but often at night.
The emperor held a ceremony to eliminate disasters and evil spirits, and then entered the room.
The emperor regarded the wizard as his master and asked him to take care of the diet of the god.
After the king of gods said what he wanted, he handed it over to the people below for processing.
They also built the Longevity Palace and the North Palace, hung feather flags, furnished utensils for worshiping the gods, and welcomed the gods with noble etiquette.
The emperor ordered someone to record what the god said and named it "Painting".
But what the Lord God said was known to ordinary people, and there was nothing special about it, but the Emperor liked it alone.
These things are very secret and unknown to the world.
Three years later, the official in charge suggested that the year name should be named with the auspiciousness sent from heaven, instead of counting one or two.
The first year of the era is called Jianyuan, the second year of Jianyuan is called Yuanguang because of the long star flowing in the sky, and the third era is called Yuanshou because of the unicorn captured during the suburban festival.
In the winter of the next year, the emperor went to the outskirts of Yong County to offer sacrifices. He discussed with the ministers and said: Now I personally offer sacrifices to heaven in the outskirts of Yong County, but I have not yet worshiped Hou Tu, the God of Earth. This is inconsistent with etiquette.
The officials in charge discussed with Taishi Ling Sima Tan, ancestral official Kuanshu and others: The horns of the calf used to offer sacrifices to heaven and earth should be as small as silkworm cocoons and chestnuts.
Now your majesty personally offers sacrifices to Hou Tu. Hou Tu should build five altars on the circular high ground in the middle of the lake. Each altar should use a small ox to sacrifice to Dalao. After the sacrifice, all the sacrifices must be buried, and those who accompany the sacrifice must also wear yellow clothes.
So the emperor drove eastward, and in accordance with the method agreed upon by Kuan Shu and others, he erected the Houtu Temple on the high hill of Fenyin. The emperor personally looked at the Houtu and worshiped it, which was the same etiquette as offering sacrifices to heaven.
After the sacrifice, the emperor went to Xingyang and then returned to Chang'an.
summary:
Various alchemists presented methods for worshipping gods, including Bo Youji's teachings on Taiyi, the most noble god. The emperor built altars and performed sacrifices accordingly. Later, a young man named General Wencheng claimed to summon spirits and was rewarded, but his methods eventually failed, and he was executed after being caught deceiving the emperor. The emperor fell ill but recovered after consulting a wizard in Ganquan Palace, where he built the Longevity Palace and continued worshipping gods. The emperor adopted year names based on auspicious signs, such as Yuanguang and Yuanshou. He performed the Hou Tu sacrifice at Fenyin and inspected various counties. Luan Da, recommended by Marquis Lecheng, claimed to have met immortals and was granted high honors, including marriage to a princess. However, his methods also failed, leading to his execution. The emperor continued seeking immortals, building temples and altars, and eventually performed the Feng and Shan sacrifices at Mount Tai in the first year of Yuanfeng.

Chunk 13: 
original: 
其南有玉堂、璧门、大鸟之属。
乃立神明台、井干楼，度五十余丈，辇道相属焉。
夏，汉改历，以正月为岁首，而色上黄，官名更印章以五字，因为太初元年。
是岁，西伐大宛。
蝗大起。
丁夫人、雒阳虞初等以方祠诅匈奴、大宛焉。
其明年，有司言雍五畤无牢熟具，芬芳不备。
乃命祠官进畤犊牢具，五色食所胜，而以木禺马代驹焉。
独五帝用驹，行亲郊用驹。
及诸名山川用驹者，悉以木禺马代。
行过，乃用驹。
他礼如故。
其明年，东巡海上，考神仙之属，未有验者。
方士有言 黄帝时为五城十二楼，以候神人于执期，命曰迎年 。
上许作之如方，名曰明年。
上亲礼祠上帝，衣上黄焉。
公玊带曰： 黄帝时虽封泰山，然风后、封钜、岐伯令黄帝封东泰山，禅凡山合符，然后不死焉。
天子既令设祠具，至东泰山，东泰山卑小，不称其声，乃令祠官礼之，而不封禅焉。
其后令带奉祠候神物。
夏，遂还泰山，修五年之礼如前，而加禅祠石闾。
石闾者，在泰山下址南方，方士多言此仙人之闾也，故上亲禅焉。
其后五年，复至泰山脩封，还过祭常山。
今天子所兴祠，泰一、后土，三年亲郊祠，建汉家封禅，五年一脩封。
薄忌泰一及三一、冥羊、马行、赤星，五，宽舒之祠官以岁时致礼。
凡六祠，皆太祝领之。
translation: 
In the south, there are statues such as the Jade Hall, the Bimen and the Divine Bird.
Shenming Terrace and Jinggan Tower were also built, both of which were more than fifty feet high, with driveways connecting the pavilions.
In the summer, the Han Dynasty reformed the calendar, using the first month of the lunar calendar as the beginning of the year. The color was still yellow, and the official seal was changed to five characters, so the era name was changed to the first year of Taichu.
This year, the Western Expedition to Dayuan was launched.
A massive locust plague occurred.
Mrs. Ding, Luoyang Yuchu and others used alchemy to offer sacrifices, and during the sacrifices, they begged ghosts and gods to bring disaster to the Xiongnu and Dawan.
The next year, officials in charge said that no cooked livestock or other sacrifices were used during the Wuju sacrifice in Yong County, and no fragrant fragrance appeared.
The emperor then ordered the ancestral officials to sacrifice cooked calves to the five emperors in the colors used for food, and use puppet horses instead of ponies as sacrifices.
Ponies were only used when offering sacrifices to the Five Emperors, and ponies were used when the emperor personally offered sacrifices in the countryside.
Those who used ponies to worship famous mountains and rivers were all replaced by puppet horses.
The emperor used ponies to offer sacrifices when he was on patrol.
Other etiquette are the same as before.
Another year later, the emperor traveled eastward, inspected the seaside, and examined things about gods and immortals, but nothing came true.
Some alchemists said that the purpose of building five cities and twelve towers during the Yellow Emperor's reign was to wait for the immortals during the execution period, which was called "welcoming the new year".
The emperor allowed it to be built as he said, calling it next year.
The emperor also put on yellow clothes and personally offered sacrifices to heaven according to the ceremony.
Gong Yingdai said: Although the Yellow Emperor held a ceremony for conferring Zen in Mount Tai, Feng Hou, Feng Ju and Qi Bo asked the Yellow Emperor to confer sacrifices on Mount Tai in the East and set up a place to offer sacrifices in Mount Fan to match Fu Rui, so that they could live forever.
The emperor ordered the preparation of sacrificial utensils, and when he came to Dongtai Mountain, he saw that Dongtai Mountain was short and incompatible with its reputation, so he ordered the ancestral officials to worship according to the etiquette and not hold a Zen ceremony.
Later, the public servants were ordered to offer sacrifices there and wait for the gods.
In the summer, the emperor returned to Mount Tai and held the five-year Zen ceremony. The etiquette was the same as before, with the addition of the etiquette of worshiping the land at Shilu Mountain.
Shilu Mountain is located to the south of the foot of Mount Tai. Many alchemists said that this is where immortals live, so the emperor personally worshiped it.
Five years later, the emperor went to Mount Tai to offer sacrifices, and on his way back he also offered sacrifices to Mount Chang.
When the emperor built the temples Taiyi and Houtu, the emperor himself would offer sacrifices in the suburbs every three years. The Han family's Zen system established by the emperor would be held every five years.
Bo Youji also petitioned to build five shrines, Taiyi, Sanyi, Mingyang, Maxing and Chixing, and the temple official Kuanshu held sacrificial ceremonies according to the prescribed time.
These five temples, together with Taiyi and Houtu Temples, total six temples, all of which are managed by Taizhu.
summary:
The emperor established a system of suburban sacrifices every three years and Feng and Shan ceremonies every five years. Despite numerous efforts by alchemists to find immortals, none succeeded. The emperor grew tired of their claims but continued hoping to meet real immortals. Taishi Gong, who accompanied the emperor on his tours, recorded these events to reveal the true nature of the worship practices, noting that specific details of rituals were handled by the responsible officials.

