Chunk 0: 
original: 
张宗字诸君，南阳鲁阳人也。
王莽时，为县阳泉乡佐。
会莽败，义兵起，宗乃率阳泉民三四百人起兵略地，西至长安，更始以宗为偏将军。
宗见更始政乱，因将家属客安邑。
及大司徒邓禹西征，定河东，定诣禹自归。
禹闻宗素多权谋，乃表为偏将军。
禹军到栒邑，赤眉大众且至，禹以栒邑不足守，欲引师进就坚城，而众人多畏贼追，惮为后拒。
禹乃书诸将名于竹简，署其前后，乱著笥中，令各探之。
宗独不肯探，曰 死生有命，张宗岂辞难就逸乎 禹叹息谓曰 将军有亲弱在营，奈何不顾 宗曰 愚闻一卒毕力，百人不当。万夫致死，可以横行。
宗今拥兵数千，以承大威，何遽其必败乎 遂留为后拒。
translation: 
◆Zhang Zongchuan, also known as Zhang Zongzi Zhujun, was born in Luyang, Nanyang.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he served as the assistant of Yangquan Township in this county.
When Wang Mang failed and rebels broke out, Zhang Zong led three to four hundred people from Yangquan to seize the territory and marched west to Chang'an. Emperor Gengshi appointed Zhang Zong as a partial general.
Zhang Zong saw the political chaos in Gengshi, so he sent his family to Anyi.
Later, the Great Situ Deng Yu went on an expedition to the west and settled Hedong. Zhang Zong went to Deng Yu's place and went back on his own.
Deng Yu heard that Zhang Zongsu was very powerful, so he recommended him to be a partial general.
When Deng Yu's army arrived at the city, the Red Eyebrow Army was approaching. Deng Yu thought that the city was not strong enough to defend and wanted to lead his troops to defend the city. However, everyone was afraid of being chased by thieves and afraid of being a rearguard.
Deng Yu then wrote the names of the generals on the bamboo slips in order, put them randomly in the box, and asked everyone to draw lots.
Zhang Zongdu refused to smoke. He said: Life and death are determined by fate. Is Zhang Zong a person who will give up when it is difficult? Deng Yu sighed and said: "The general has old relatives and weak sons in the camp, why don't you consider it?" Zhang Zong said: I heard that if a soldier tries his best, a hundred people cannot stop him; if ten thousand soldiers are willing to die, they can dominate the world.
Zhang Zongjin has thousands of troops and can withstand the power of the army. Why should he immediately expect defeat? So I stayed and refused.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
诸营既引兵，宗方勒厉军士，坚垒壁，以死当之。
禹到前县，议曰 以张将军之众，当百万之师，犹以小雪投沸汤，虽欲戮力，其势不全也 乃遣步骑二千人反还迎宗。
宗引兵始发，而赤眉卒至，宗与战，却之，乃得归营，于是诸将服其勇。
及还到长安，宗夜将锐士入城袭赤眉，中矛贯胛，又转攻诸营保，为流矢所激，皆几至于死。
及邓禹征还，光武以宗为京辅都尉，将突骑与征西大将军冯异共击关中诸营保，破之，还河南都尉。
建武六年，都尉官省，拜太中大夫。
八年，颍川桑中盗贼群起，宗将兵击定之。
后青、冀盗贼屯聚山泽，宗以谒者督诸郡兵讨平之。
十六年，琅邪、北海盗贼复起，宗督二郡兵讨之，乃设方略，明购赏，皆悉破散，于是沛、楚、东海、临淮群贼惧其威武，相捕斩者数千人，青、徐震栗。
后迁琅邪相，其政好严猛，敢杀伐。
translation: 
After all the camps had led their troops and set off, Zhang Zong urged his soldiers to build strongholds and defend them without retreating.
When Deng Yu arrived at Qianxian County, he heard people commenting: "With General Zhang's manpower, trying to stop an army of millions is like throwing Xiaoxue into boiling water. No matter how hard he tries, he can't do it." So he sent 2,000 infantry and cavalry back to greet Zhang Zong.
Zhang Zong led his troops to set out, but the Red Eyebrow Army hurriedly arrived. Zhang Zong fought with him, drove them back, and then returned to the camp. The generals admired his bravery.
After returning to Chang'an, Zhang Zong led his warriors into the city at night to attack Chimei. He was shot between the arms by the enemy.
When Deng Yu was recalled to the capital, Guangwu appointed Zhang Zong as the capital's auxiliary captain. He led the sudden cavalry and conquered the west general Feng Yi to attack the various camps in Guanzhong. After defeating them, he was promoted to the captain of Henan.
In the sixth year of Jianwu's reign, he became the governor of the province and became a senior official in Taizhong.
In the eighth year, bandits arose in Yingchuan Sangzhong, and Zhang Zong led his troops to defeat them and put them down.
Later, bandits from Qingzhou and Jizhou gathered in the mountains and swamps, and Zhang Zong used his visitors to urge the soldiers of the counties to fight for peace.
In the 16th year, bandits from Langyi and Beibu broke out again. Zhang Zong supervised the soldiers of the two counties to attack them. He then formulated a strategy and clearly rewarded those who surrendered. The enemies were all broken up. The bandits in Pei, Chu, Donghai and Linhuai were afraid of his might and killed thousands of each other. The enemies in Qingzhou and Xuzhou were very afraid.
Later, Zhang Zong was promoted to Langfu Prime Minister. His policies were harsh and he dared to kill.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
永平二年，卒于官。
法雄字文彊，扶风郿人也，齐襄王法章之后。
秦灭齐，子孙不敢称田姓，故以法为氏。
宣帝时，徙三辅，世为二千石。
雄初仕郡功曹，辟太傅张禹府，举雄高第，除平氏长。
善政事，好发擿奸伏，盗贼稀发，吏人畏爱之。
南阳太守鲍得上其理状，迁宛陵令。
永初三年，海贼张伯路等三千馀人，冠赤帻，服绛衣，自称 将军 ，寇滨海九郡，杀二千石令长。
初，遣侍御史庞雄督州郡兵击之，伯路等乞降，寻复屯聚。
明年，伯路复与平原刘文河等三百馀人称 使者 ，攻厌次城，杀长吏，转入高唐，烧官寺，出系囚，渠帅皆称 将军 ，共朝谒伯路。
伯路冠五梁冠，佩印绶，党众浸盛。
乃遣御史中丞王宗持节发幽、冀诸郡兵，合数万人，乃征雄为青州刺史，与王宗并力讨之。
translation: 
In the second year of Yongping, he died in his official position.
◆Faxiong's biography, Faxiong's courtesy name is Wenqiang, a native of Fufeng County. Descendants of King Qi Xiang Fa Zhang.
The Qin State destroyed the Qi State, and their descendants did not dare to use the surname Tian, ​​so they used the surname Tian.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, he moved to Sanfu and made two thousand stones from generation to generation.
Faxiong initially served as a meritorious officer in the county, and later he was promoted to the mansion of Taifu Zhang Yu, where he was promoted to a high rank and appointed chief of the Ping clan.
Faxiong is good at political affairs and likes to expose bad guys. Thieves rarely occur, and officials and the people fear him and love him.
Bao, the prefect of Nanyang, was promoted to the magistrate of Wanling County.
In the third year of Yongchu's reign, the pirate Zhang Bolu and more than 3,000 people, wearing red hats and red clothes, calling themselves "generals", invaded nine coastal counties and killed 2,000 commanders.
At first, the imperial court sent Pang Xiong, the imperial censor, to urge the state and county soldiers to attack them. Bolu and others surrendered, and soon gathered together again.
The next year, Bolu and Pingyuan Liu Wenhe and more than 300 people called him "envoys". They attacked the city of Weichi, killed the officials, and moved to Gaotang County. They burned the official temple and released the prisoners. The leaders were all called "generals" and met Bolu together.
Bo Lu wears a five-beam crown and a seal ribbon, and there are more and more party members.
The imperial court sent Wang Zong, the royal censor, Zhongcheng, to mobilize tens of thousands of soldiers and horses from counties in Youzhou and Jizhou with talismans, and promoted Faxiong to be the governor of Qingzhou to join forces with Wang Zong to attack them.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
连战破贼，斩首溺死者数百人，馀皆奔走，收器械财物甚众。
会赦诏到，贼犹以军甲未解，不敢归降。
于是王宗召刺史太守共议，皆以为当遂击之。
雄曰 不然，兵，凶器。战，危事。
勇不可恃，胜不可必。
贼若乘船浮海，深入远岛，攻之未易也。
及有赦令，可且罢兵，以慰诱其心，势必解散，然后图之，可不战而定也 宗善其言，即罢兵。
贼闻大喜，乃还所略人。
而东莱郡兵独未解甲，贼复惊恐，遁走辽东，止海岛上。
五年春，乏食，复抄东莱间，雄率郡兵击破之，贼逃还辽东，辽东人李久等共斩平之，于是州界清静。
雄每行部，录囚徒，察颜色，多得情伪，长吏不奉法者皆解印绶去。
translation: 
Lien fought against the thieves, beheaded and drowned hundreds of people, and the rest fled, and confiscated a lot of equipment and property.
Just when the edict of pardon arrived, the thieves still thought that the armor had not been lifted and did not dare to come back and surrender.
So Wang Zong summoned the governor and governor to discuss together, and they all agreed that an attack should be carried out immediately.
Faxiong said: This cannot be the case. Soldiers are weapons and war is dangerous.
Courage cannot be relied upon and victory cannot be guaranteed.
If thieves go out to sea by boat and go deep into distant islands, it will not be so easy to attack.
When the pardon comes, you can temporarily withdraw your troops to comfort and lure them, which will inevitably lead to disbandment, and then think of ways to gain stability without fighting. Wang Zong agreed and immediately stopped his troops.
The thieves were overjoyed when they heard this, so they returned the captives.
However, the Donglai County soldiers did not remove their armor. The thieves were frightened and fled to Liaodong, where they stayed on the island.
In the spring of the fifth year, due to lack of food, they surrounded Donglaijian again. Faxiong led the county soldiers to defeat them. The thieves fled back to Liaodong. Li Jiu and others from Liaodong joined forces to kill them, so the state border became quiet.
Every time Faxiong patrols various ministries, registers prisoners and observes their colors, he can often get the truth of the case. Those who do not implement the law will be relieved of their seals and ribbons and leave their posts.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
在州四年，迁南郡太守，断狱省少，户口益增。
郡滨带江沔，又有云梦薮泽，永初中，多虎狼之暴，前太守赏募张捕，反为所害者甚众。
雄乃移书属县曰 凡虎狼之在山林，犹人之居城市。
古者至化之世，猛兽不扰，皆由恩信宽泽，仁及飞走。
太守虽不德，敢忘斯义。
记到，其毁坏槛阱，不得妄捕山林 是后虎害稍息，人以狱安。
在郡数岁，岁常丰稔。
元初中卒官。
子真，在《逸人传》。滕抚字叔辅，北海剧人也。
初仕州郡，稍迁为涿令，有文武才用。
太守以其能，委任郡职，兼领六县。
风政修明，流爱于人，在事七年，道不拾遗。
顺帝末，扬、徐盗贼群起，磐牙连岁。
translation: 
Faxiong stayed in the state for four years and was promoted to the prefect of Nanjun. He had fewer prisons and fewer provinces, and his household registration increased.
The county is close to Jiangmi, and there is Yunmengsouze. During the Yongchu period, there were many tigers and wolves intruding. The former prefect offered rewards to recruit hunters to capture them, and many people were killed by tigers and wolves.
Faxiong then sent an official document to Qu Dao: Wherever tigers and wolves are in the mountains and forests, it is equivalent to people living in cities.
In the most civilized era of ancient times, ferocious beasts did not invade, all because of the emperor's kindness and kindness, and his kindness spread to all birds and beasts.
Although the prefect was not benevolent enough, he did not dare to forget this meaning.
After the documents arrive, all the wells will be destroyed, and no wild animals will be hunted in the mountains and forests. From then on, the tiger damage stopped and the people lived in peace.
For several years in the county, there were good harvests year after year.
He died in official position in the early Yuan Dynasty.
◆Teng Fu's biography, Teng Fu's courtesy name Shufu, was a dramatist in Beihai.
At first he served as an official in a prefecture and county, and later he was promoted to the magistrate of Zhuo County. He had both civil and military talents.
The prefect thought that he was capable and appointed him to the county post, taking charge of six counties at the same time.
He is politically wise and deeply loved by the people. He has been in office for seven years and has not lost track of his mistakes.
In the last years of Emperor Shun's reign, thieves were everywhere in Yangzhou and Xuzhou, colluding with each other year after year.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
建康元年，九江范容、周生等相聚反乱，屯据历阳，为江淮巨患，遣御史中丞冯绲将兵督扬州刺史尹燿、九江太守邓显讨之。燿、显军败，为贼所杀。
又阴陵人徐凤、马勉等复寇郡县，杀略吏人。
凤衣绛衣，带黑绶，称 无上将军 ，勉皮冠黄衣，带玉印，称 黄帝 ，筑营于当涂山中。
乃建年号，置百官，遣别帅黄虎攻没合肥。
明年，广陵贼张婴等复聚众数千人反，据广陵。
朝廷博求将帅，三公举抚有文武才，拜为九江都尉，与中郎将赵序助冯绲合州郡兵数万人共讨之。
又广开赏募，钱、邑各有差。
梁太后虑群贼屯结，诸将不能制，又议遣太尉李固。
未及行，会抚等进击，大破之，斩马勉、范容、周生等千五百级，徐凤遂将馀众攻烧东城县。
下邳人谢安应募，率其宗亲设伏击凤，斩之，封安为平乡侯，邑三千户。
translation: 
In the first year of Jiankang, Fan Rong, Zhou Sheng and others from Jiujiang gathered to rebel and settled in Liyang, which caused a catastrophe in the Jianghuai River. The imperial court sent the Censor Zhongcheng General Feng Zui to urge Yangzhou Governor Yin Huozhai and Jiujiang Governor Deng Xian to attack them. Yao and Xian were defeated and killed by thieves.
Xu Feng, Ma Mian and others from Yinling also invaded counties and killed officials and people.
Xu Feng wore red clothes with a black ribbon and called himself the "Supreme General". Ma Mian wore a fur hat, yellow clothes, and a jade seal. He was called the Yellow Emperor and built a fort in Dangtu Mountain.
So he established a reign title, appointed hundreds of officials, and sent Marshal Huang Hu to capture Hefei.
The next year, Guangling thief Zhang Ying and others gathered thousands of people to rebel and occupied Guangling.
The imperial court extensively solicited generals, and the three princes recommended Teng Fu, saying that he had all-round talents in both civil and military affairs. He was appointed the captain of Jiujiang, and he and the general Zhao Xu assisted Feng Yu in the crusade together with tens of thousands of people from prefectures and counties.
They also widely opened up rewards, money, and towns, each with different levels.
The Empress Dowager Liang was worried that the generals would be unable to subdue the thieves who were stationed there and colluded, so she suggested sending Lieutenant Li Gu.
Before setting off, they encountered Teng Fu and others advancing to attack the thieves. They defeated them and beheaded one thousand and five of Ma Mian, Fan Rong, Zhou Sheng, etc. Xu Feng led the rest of the army to attack Dongcheng County.
Xie An, a native of Xiapi, responded to the call and led his clan members to set up an ambush to attack Xu Feng and beheaded him. The imperial court granted Xie An the title of Marquis of Pingxiang, with a city of 3,000 households.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
拜抚中郎将，督扬、徐二州事。
抚复进击张婴，斩获千馀人。
赵序坐畏懦不进，诈增首级，征还弃市。
又历阳贼华孟自称 黑帝 ，攻九江，杀郡守。
抚乘胜进击，破之，斩孟等三千八百级，虏获七百馀人，牛、马、财物不可胜算。
于是东南悉平，振旅而还。
以抚为左冯翊，除一子为郎。
抚所得赏赐，尽分于麾下。
性方直，不交权势，宦官怀忿。
及论功当封，太尉胡广时录尚书事，承旨奏黜抚，天下怨之。
卒于家。
冯绲字鸿卿，巴郡宕渠人也，少学《春秋》、《司马兵法》。
父焕，安帝时为幽州刺史，疾忌奸恶，数致其罪。
时玄菟太守姚光亦失人和。
建光元年，怨者乃诈作玺书谴责焕、光，赐以欧刀。
translation: 
He worshiped Teng Fu as Zhonglang General and supervised the affairs of Yangzhou and Xuzhou.
Teng Fu attacked Zhang Ying again and captured more than a thousand people.
Zhao Xu committed the crime of cowardice and falsely increased his rank, so he was recalled to have his head executed in public.
In addition, the Liyang thief Hua Meng claimed to be the "Black Emperor" and attacked Jiujiang, killing the county guard.
Teng Fu took advantage of the victory to attack and defeated Hua Meng and other 3,800 people, and captured more than 700 people, including cattle, horses and property.
So everything in the southeast was pacified, and the army was reorganized and returned.
The imperial court appointed Zuo Fengyi as governor, except for one son who was appointed as Lang.
All the rewards Teng Fu received were given to his subordinates.
Teng Fu had an upright character and did not associate with powerful people, so the eunuchs held grudges.
When the time came to reward him based on his merits, the Taiwei Hu Guang recorded the minister's affairs and submitted an imperial edict to depose Teng. The whole world became resentful.
Later, Teng Fu died at home.
◆The biography of Feng Kui, whose courtesy name was Hongqing, was from Danqu, Ma County. When he was young, he studied "Spring and Autumn" and "Sima's Art of War".
His father, Feng Huan, served as the governor of Youzhou during the reign of Emperor An. He hated traitors and punished them many times for their crimes.
At that time, Yao Guang, the prefect of Xuantu, also had uncoordinated personnel relations.
In the first year of Jianguang, the resentful people forged seals to condemn Feng Huan and Yao Guang, and gave them European swords.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
又下辽东都尉庞奋使速行刑，奋即斩光收焕。
焕欲自杀，绲疑诏文有异，止焕曰 大人在州，志欲去恶，实无他故，必是凶人妄诈，规肆奸毒。
愿以事自上，甘罪无晚 焕从其言，上书自讼，果诈者所为，征奋抵罪。
会焕病死狱中，帝愍之，赐焕、光钱各十万，以子为郎中。
绲由是知名。
家富好施，赈赴穷急，为州里所归爱。
初举孝廉，七迁为广汉属国都尉，征拜御史中丞。
顺帝末，以绲持节督扬州诸郡军事，与中郎将滕抚击破群贼，迁陇西太守。
后鲜卑寇边，以绲为辽东太守，晓喻降集，虏皆弭散。征拜京兆尹，转司隶校尉，所在立威刑。
迁廷尉、太常。
时，长沙蛮寇益阳，屯聚积久，至延熹五年，众转盛，而零陵蛮贼复反应之，合二万馀人，攻烧城郭，杀伤长吏。
又武陵蛮夷悉反，寇掠江陵间，荆州刺史刘度、南郡太守李肃并奔走荆南，皆没。
于是拜绲为车骑将军，将兵十馀万讨之，诏策绲曰 蛮夷猾夏，久不讨摄，各焚都城，蹈籍官人。
州郡将吏，死职之臣，相逐奔窜，曾不反顾，可愧言也。
将军素有威猛，是以擢授六师。
前代陈汤、冯、傅之徒，以寡击众，郅支、夜郎、楼兰之戎，头悬都街，卫、霍北征，功列金石，是皆将军所究览也。
今非将军，谁与修复前迹。
进赴之宜，权时之策，将军一之，出郊之事，不复内御。
translation: 
He also issued an edict to Pang Fen, the captain of Liaodong, to execute the punishment as soon as possible. Pang Fen executed Yao Guang and detained Feng Huan.
Feng Huan wanted to commit suicide. Feng Sui suspected that the edict was false, so he stopped Feng Huan and said: "When you were in the state, you wanted to get rid of the evildoers. There is really no other reason. The murderer must be blackmailing and using poisonous tricks."
I would like to report the matter to the higher authorities. If it is true, it is not too late to plead guilty. Feng Huan listened to his son's words and wrote a letter to tell the truth. It was indeed a cunning person. The emperor summoned Pang Fen to plead guilty.
It happened that Feng Huan died in prison, and the emperor sympathized with him. Feng Huan and Yao Guang were given 100,000 yuan each, and their sons were appointed as doctors.
Feng Cui became famous from then on.
Feng Nian's family was rich and he was fond of charity and helped the poor and needy, so he was loved by the people in the state.
At first, he was promoted as Xiaolian, promoted seven times to become the captain of the Guanghan vassal state, and was also recruited to be the censor Zhongcheng.
In the last years of Emperor Shun's reign, the imperial court sent Feng Kui to supervise the military affairs of the counties in Yangzhou. Together with Zhonglang General Teng Fu, he defeated the bandits and moved to Longxi as the prefect.
After telling everyone to surrender, the barbarians stopped their activities and dispersed back to their original places. Later, Feng Zui became Jing Zhaoyin and transferred to Sili Xiaowei, and established threats and punishments wherever he was.
Later he was promoted to Tingwei and Taichang.
At this time, the Changsha barbarians invaded Yiyang and gathered there for a long time. By the fifth year of Yanxi, there were more followers, and the Lingling barbarians also colluded with them. A total of more than 20,000 people attacked and burned the city, killing and wounding the officials.
In addition, all Wuling barbarians rebelled and plundered the Jiangling area. Liu Du, the governor of Jingzhou, and Li Su, the governor of Nanjun, both abandoned their posts and fled, and Jingnan fell into enemy hands.
The imperial court then appointed Feng Kui as the general of chariots and cavalry, and led more than 100,000 people to attack them. The edict was written to Feng Kui: The barbarians invaded China, and they did not attack them for a long time. They burned the capital and trampled on the officials and people.
The generals and officials of the prefectures and counties, and the ministers who were dead in their duties, ran away from each other and never looked back. How shameful.
The general had a reputation for being powerful, so he was promoted to the Sixth Division.
The disciples of Chen Tang, Feng and Fu in the previous generation used less to attack more. The enemies of Zhizhi, Yelang and Loulan had their heads hung in the streets for public display. Wei Qing and Huo Guang went to the north and made great achievements. This is all known to the general.
Now, if not the general, who can restore the achievements of the previous dynasty?
Advances and retreats, as well as strategies for power and time, are all under the exclusive control of the general, and matters outside the suburbs are no longer managed internally.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
已命有司祖于国门。
《诗》不云乎：进厥虎臣，阚如虓虎，敷敦淮濆，仍执丑虏。
将军其勉之
时，天下饑馑，帑藏虚尽，每出征伐，常减公卿俸禄，假王侯租赋，前后所遣将帅，宦官辄陷以折耗军资，往往抵罪。
绲性烈直，不行贿赂，惧为所中，乃上疏曰 势得容奸，伯夷可疑。荀曰无猜，盗跖可信。
故乐羊陈功，文侯示以谤书。
愿请中常侍一人监军财费 尚书朱穆奏绲以财自嫌，失大臣之节。
有诏勿劾。
绲军至长沙，贼闻，悉诣营道乞降。
进击武陵蛮夷，斩首四千馀级，受降十馀万人，荆州平定。
诏书赐钱一亿，固让不受。
振旅还京师，推功于从事中郎应奉，荐以为司隶校尉，而上书乞骸骨，朝廷不许。
translation: 
An official has been ordered to hold a farewell ceremony at the gate of the country.
Didn't "The Book of Songs" say: When a tiger minister enters the country, he will be like a nine-strong tiger.
General, encourage me!
At this time, there was famine in the world and the treasury was empty. Every time we sent out troops to fight, the salaries of ministers were often reduced, and they borrowed taxes from princes and sent generals forward and backward.
Feng Zui had a strong and upright character and could not take bribes, but he was afraid of being slandered by the eunuchs, so he went to the court and said: If you listen to slander, Boyi can also be suspicious. If you are not suspected, Robber Zhi can also be trusted.
So Leyangzi performed the formation meritorious service, and Marquis Wen gave him a basket of slanderous letters.
I would like to ask you to send a permanent servant to supervise the military finances. Shangshu Zhu Mu reported that Feng Kui used money to avoid suspicion, which was against the integrity of a minister.
There is an edict not to impeach anyone.
Feng Cui's army arrived in Changsha. After hearing the news, the thieves all went to the camp road to beg for surrender.
Feng Kui attacked the Wuling barbarians, beheaded more than 4,000 people, and surrendered more than 100,000 people. Jingzhou was pacified.
The imperial edict granted 100 million yuan, but Feng Zui refused.
Feng Cui led the army back to the capital, commended him for his merits to Zhonglang Yingfeng, and recommended him to be the Sili Xiaowei. However, he wrote a letter requesting to retire, but the court refused.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
监军使者张敞承宦官旨，奏绲将傅婢二人戎服自随，又辄于江陵刻石纪功，请下吏案理。
尚书令黄俊奏议，以为罪无正法，不合致纠。
会长沙贼复起，攻桂阳、武陵，绲以军还盗贼复发，策免。
顷之，拜将作大匠，转河南尹。
上言 旧典，中官子弟不得为牧人职 ，帝不纳。
复为廷尉。
时山阳太守单迁以罪系狱，绲考致其死。
迁，故车骑将军单超之弟，中官相党，遂共诽章诬绲，坐与司隶校尉李膺、大司农刘祐俱输左校。
拜降虏校尉，终于家。
度尚字博平，山阳湖陆人也。
家贫，不修学行，不为乡里所推举。
积困穷，乃为宦者同郡侯览视田，得为郡上计吏，拜郎中，除上虞长。
为政严峻，明于发擿奸非，吏人谓之神明。
translation: 
Zhang Chang, the eunuch who oversaw the army, followed the eunuch's decree and followed Feng Gui, Fu and his maidservants, in uniform. He often carved stones in Jiangling to commemorate his achievements, and requested to issue edicts to the officials for trial.
The minister ordered Huang Jun to report that there was no justice for the crime and should not be entangled.
It happened that the bandits in Changsha recurred and attacked Guiyang and Wuling. Feng Zui was dismissed because the army returned and the bandits recurred.
Soon, he was promoted to be a great craftsman and promoted to Henan Yin.
The letter said: According to the old rules, children of middle-ranking officials are not allowed to hold the position of shepherd. The emperor did not accept it.
He became a Tingwei again.
At that time, Shanyin prefect Shan Qian was imprisoned for his crime, and Feng Kui examined him and sentenced him to death.
Shan moved, so he was the younger brother of Chariot and Cavalry General Shan Chao. The middle and high-ranking officials protected each other, so they falsely accused Feng Zui, and together with Li Ying, the lieutenant of Sili School, and Liu, the chief minister of Nong, were defeated by the Zuo School.
You should intercede with Shu Weijian and others, and you will be exempted from guilt. Later, he became a captain of the Cavalry School and a court captain, and died in his official position.
◆Du Shangzhuan, whose courtesy name was Boping, was from Shanyin Hulu.
He was from a poor family, had not completed his studies, and was not recommended by the village.
After many years of poverty, he took care of the land for his eunuch, Marquis Lan of the same county, became the county's accountant, became a doctor, and was appointed chief of Yu.
He is very strict and knows how to spot bad people and bad deeds. Officials call him a god.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
迁文安令，遇时疾疫，谷贵人饑，尚开仓廪给，营救疾者，百姓蒙其济。
时冀州刺史朱穆行部，见尚甚奇之。
延熹五年，长沙、零陵贼合七八千人，自称 将军，入桂阳、苍梧、南海、交阯，交阯刺史及苍梧太守望风逃奔，二郡皆没。
遣御史中丞盛修募兵讨之，不能克。
豫章艾县人六百馀人，应募而不得赏直，怨恚，遂反，焚烧长沙郡县，寇益阳，杀县令，众渐盛。
又遣谒者马睦，督荆州刺史刘度击之，军败，睦、度奔走。
桓帝诏公卿举任代刘度者，尚书朱穆举向，自右校令擢为荆州刺史。
尚躬率部曲，与同劳逸，广募杂种诸蛮夷，明设购赏，进击，大破之，降者数万人。
桂阳宿贼渠帅卜阳、潘鸿等畏尚威烈，徙入山谷。
尚穷追数百里，遂入南海，破其三屯，多获珍宝。
而阳、鸿等党众犹盛，尚欲击之，而士卒骄富，莫有斗志。
尚计缓之则不战，逼之必逃亡，乃宣言卜阳、潘鸿作贼十年，习于攻守，今兵寡少，未易可进，当须诸郡所发悉至，尔乃并力攻之。
translation: 
Later, he was promoted to the magistrate of Wen'an County. When a disease was prevalent and the nobles were hungry, Du Shang opened a warehouse and took out grain to rescue the sick, and the people received relief.
At that time, Zhu Mu, the governor of Jizhou, came to inspect and was very surprised to see Du Shang.
In the fifth year of Yanxi's reign, a total of seven or eight thousand bandits from Changsha and Lingling, who were called generals, invaded Guiyang, Cangwu, Nanhai, and Jiaozhi. The governor of Jiaozhi and the prefect of Cangwu Wangfeng fled, and both counties fell into the hands of thieves.
The imperial court sent the censor Zhongcheng Shengxiu to recruit troops to attack, but he could not win.
There were more than 600 people from Ai County in Yuzhang who applied for the army but did not receive any reward. Feeling resentful, they rebelled, burned the counties in Changsha, invaded Yiyang, killed the county magistrate, and the number of followers increased.
The imperial court also sent an envoy, Ma Mu, to supervise Liu Du, the governor of Jingzhou, to attack. The battle was defeated, and both Ma Mu and Liu Du fled.
Emperor Huan ordered the ministers to recommend someone to replace Liu Du, and Shangshu Zhu Mu recommended Du Shang, who was promoted from the right school magistrate to the governor of Jingzhou.
Du Shang personally led his men and worked and rested with them. At the same time, he recruited all kinds of barbarians and offered rewards. He attacked the thieves and defeated them. Tens of thousands of people surrendered.
The old bandit leaders in Guiyang, Bu Yang and Pan Hong, were afraid of Du Shang's majesty and fled to the valley.
Du Shang pursued for hundreds of miles, and the thieves arrived in the South China Sea. They broke into three villages and obtained many treasures.
However, there were still many party members such as Bu Yang and Pan Hong. Du Shang wanted to continue the pursuit, but the soldiers were proud and had no fighting spirit.
Du Shang thought that if he delayed his troops, he would not be able to fight, and if he was forced to fight, he would flee, so he threatened Buyang and Pan Hong who had been thieves for ten years and were accustomed to attacking and retreating. Now there are too few soldiers to attack easily. You should wait for all the troops from the counties to arrive before you attack with them.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
申令军中，恣听射猎，兵士喜悦，大小皆相与从禽。
尚乃密使所亲客潜焚其营，珍积皆尽。
猎者来还，莫不泣涕。
尚人人慰劳，深自咎责，因曰 卜阳等财宝足富数世，诸卿但不并力耳。
所亡少少，何足介意 众闻咸愤踊，尚敕令秣马蓐食，明旦，径赴贼屯。
阳、鸿等自以深固，不复设备，吏士乘锐，遂大破平之。
尚出兵三年，群寇悉定。
七年，封右乡侯，迁桂阳太守。
明年，征还京师。
时荆州兵朱盖等，征戍役久，财赏不赡，忿恚，复作乱，与桂阳贼胡兰等三千馀人复攻桂阳，焚烧郡县，太守任胤弃城走，贼众遂至数万。
转攻零陵，太守陈球固守拒之。
translation: 
He also ordered the troops to go hunting. The soldiers were so happy that they all went hunting together.
Du Shang then secretly sent his cronies to secretly burn down the fortress, destroying all his treasures and savings.
Everyone came back from hunting without crying.
Du Shang expressed his condolences to everyone and deeply blamed himself, so he said: "Bu Yang and others have enough wealth to support several generations, but you are just not doing your best."
There are so few things lost, so why bother. After hearing this, everyone was indignant and excited, and came forward. Du Shang ordered the horses to have breakfast, and early the next morning, they went straight to the thief's residence.
Bu Yang, Pan Hong and others thought that the fortress was deep and solid, so they no longer took precautions. The officials attacked with vigor, and then defeated the bandits and leveled the bandits' nest.
Three years after Du Shang sent troops, all the bandits were put down.
In the seventh year, he was granted the title of Marquis of Youxiang and promoted to the prefect of Guiyang.
The next year, the capital was recalled.
At this time, Jingzhou soldiers Zhu Shan and others had been out for a long time and had insufficient financial resources. The soldiers were resentful and started rebellion again. Together with the Guiyang thief Hu Lan and more than 3,000 people, they attacked Guiyang again and burned the counties. The prefect Ren Yin abandoned the city and fled, and the number of thieves increased to tens of thousands.
Turning to attack Lingling, the prefect Chen Qiu defended the city and resisted the enemy.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
于是以尚为中郎将，将幽、冀、黎阳、乌桓步骑二万六千人救球，又与长沙太守抗徐等发诸郡兵，并势讨击，大破之，斩兰等首三千五百级，馀贼走苍梧。
诏赐尚钱百万，馀人各有差。
时抗徐与尚俱为名将，数有功。
徐字伯徐，丹阳人，乡邦称其胆智。
初试守宣城长，悉移深林远薮椎髻鸟语之人置于县下，由是境内无复盗贼。
后为中郎将宗资别部司马，击太山贼公孙举等，破平之，斩首三千馀级，封乌程东乡侯五百户。
迁太山都尉，寇盗望风奔亡。
及在长沙，宿贼皆平。
卒于官。
桓帝下诏追增封徐五百户，并前千户。
复以尚为荆州刺史。
尚见胡兰馀党南走苍梧，惧为已负，乃伪上言苍梧贼入荆州界，于是征交阯刺中张磐下廷尉。
translation: 
The imperial court then sent Du Shang as Zhonglang General, leading 26,000 infantry and cavalry from Youzhou, Jizhou, Liyang, and Wuhuan to rescue Chen Qiu. He also mobilized troops from various counties with Changsha Governor Kang Xu and others to attack together, and defeated the thieves, beheading Hu Lan and other 3,500 people. The remaining thieves fled to Cangwu.
The imperial court issued an edict to reward Du Shang with a million yuan, and the rest of the people received different rewards.
At this time, Kangxu and Dushang were both famous generals and had made many meritorious deeds.
Xu, courtesy name Boxu, was from Danyang, and his countrymen praised him for his courage and wisdom.
At the beginning of the trial of guarding Xuancheng, all the natives who were far away in the deep forest, with their vertebrae and chirping in their buns and chirping birds, moved to the county. From then on, there were no more thieves in the territory.
Later, he became the Sima of the Zhongzi branch of Zhonglang General, defeated the Taishan bandits Gongsun Ju and others, defeated them, beheaded more than 3,000 people, and was granted the title of Marquis of Dongxiang, Wucheng, and enjoyed the title of 500 households in the city.
Later, he was promoted to the captain of Taishan, and the bandit Wangfeng escaped.
After arriving in Changsha, all the old thieves were put down.
Die in office.
Emperor Huan issued an edict and granted 500 additional households in Xu, adding to the previous total of 1,000 households.
The imperial court also sent Du Shang to be the governor of Jingzhou.
Du Shang saw Hu Lanyu's party fleeing south to Cangwu, and was afraid of being defeated by him, so he fabricated news that Cangwu bandits were invading the Jingzhou border, and summoned Zhang Panxia Tingwei, the governor of Quzhi.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
辞状未正，会赦见原。
磐不肯出狱，方更牢持械节，狱吏谓磐曰 天恩旷然而君不出，可乎 磐因自列曰 前长沙贼胡兰作难荆州，馀党散入交阯。
磐身婴甲胄，涉危履险，讨击凶患，斩殄渠帅，馀尽鸟窜冒遁，还奔荆州。
刺史度尚惧磐先言，怖畏罪戾，伏奏见诬。
磐备位方伯，为国爪牙，而为尚所枉，受罪牢狱。
夫事有虚实，法有是非。
磐实不辜，赦无所除。
如忍以苟免，永受侵辱之耻，生为恶吏，死为敝鬼。
乞传尚诣廷尉，面对曲直，足明真伪。
尚不征者，磐埋骨牢槛，终不虚出，望尘受枉 廷尉以其状上，诏书征尚到廷尉，辞穷受罪，以先有功得原。
磐字子石，丹阳人，以清白称，终于庐江太守。
translation: 
He was pardoned before the petition was written.
Zhang Pan refused to be released from prison because he insisted on holding on to his weapons. The jailer said to Zhang Pan: "God's grace is unprecedented but you don't come out, is that okay?" Zhang Pan then defended himself and said: In the past, Hu Lan, the Changsha thief, made trouble in Jingzhou, and the remaining party dispersed into Jiaochangzhi.
Wearing armor, I risked my life to fight against the vicious thieves and killed their leader. The rest of the gang fled and returned to Jingzhou.
The governor, Du Shang, was afraid that I would speak first, and that he would be blamed and that he would be wronged in the memorial.
I am preparing to serve as Fang Bo, a minion of the state, but I was wronged by Du Shang and sentenced to prison.
Things may be false or true, and laws may be right or wrong.
I really have no fault and nothing can be forgiven.
If you endure it, you will suffer the shame of being insulted forever, live as a bad official, and die as a ghost.
The request for transmission came to Tingwei. Faced with the merits, it was clear whether it was true or false.
For those who have not yet been punished, I will bury their bones in a prison and never come out for the rest of my life, hoping to clear up the injustice. The Tingwei sent his petition, and the emperor issued an edict to summon Shang to the Tingwei. He resigned and suffered the punishment, and was forgiven because he had performed meritorious service first.
Zhang Pan, courtesy name Zishi, was from Danyang and was known for his innocence. He died while serving as the governor of Hujiang.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
尚后为辽东太守，数月，鲜卑率兵攻尚，与战，破之，戎狄惮畏。
年五十，延熹九年，卒于官。
杨璇字机平，会稽乌伤人也。
高祖父茂，本河东人，从光武征伐，为威寇将军，封乌伤新阳乡侯。
建武中就国，传封三世，有罪国除，因而家焉。
父扶，交阯刺史，有理能名。
兄乔，为尚书，容仪伟丽，数上言政事，桓帝爱其才貌，诏妻以公主，乔固辞不听，遂闭口不食，七日而死。
璇初举孝廉，稍迁，灵帝时为零陵太守。
translation: 
Dushang later became the governor of Liaodong. A few months later, the Xianbei people led their troops to attack Dushang, fought with him, and defeated him. From then on, the Rong and Di were afraid.
At the age of fifty, in the ninth year of Yanxi's reign, he died in office.
◆Yang Xuan's biography, Yang Xuan's calligraphy is Jiping, Kuaiji Wushangren.
My great-great-grandfather, Yang Mao, was originally from Hedong. He followed Emperor Guangwu in his conquests, became a powerful general of the invaders, and was granted the title of Marquis of Wushang Xinyang Township.
During the Jianwu period, he arrived in the capital and was granted the third title. He was later dismissed for being guilty, so he returned to his hometown.
His father, Yang Fu, was the governor of Jiaozhi and had a reputation for being capable.
My elder brother, Yang Qiao, became a minister. He had a beautiful appearance and wrote many letters to discuss political affairs. Emperor Huan liked his talent and appearance and issued an edict to marry the princess to him. Yang Qiao refused firmly, but the emperor refused to listen, so he kept silent and refused to eat. He died in seven days.
Yang Xuan was initially promoted to Xiaolian, and after some time, he became the prefect of Lingling during the reign of Emperor Ling.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
是时苍梧、桂阳猾贼相聚，攻郡县，贼众多而璇力弱，吏人忧恐，璇乃特制马车数十乘，以排囊盛石灰于车上，系布索于马尾，又为兵车，专彀弓驽，克期会战。
乃令马车居前，顺风鼓灰，贼不得视，因以火烧布，布然马惊，奔突贼阵，因使后车弓弩乱发，钲鼓鸣震。群盗波骇破散，追逐伤斩无数，枭其渠帅，郡境以清。
荆州刺史赵凯，诬奏璇实非身破贼，而妄有其功。
璇与相章奏，凯有党助，遂槛车征璇。
防禁严密，无由自讼，乃噬臂出血，书衣为章，具陈破贼形势，及言凯所诬状，潜令亲属诣阙通之。
诏书原璇，拜议郎，凯反受诬人之罪。
璇三迁为勃海太守，所在有异政，以事免。
后尚书令张温特表荐之，征拜尚书仆射。
以病乞骸骨，卒于家。
translation: 
At this time, cunning thieves from Cangwu and Guiyang gathered together to attack the counties. There were many thieves but Yang Xuan's troops were weak. The officials and the people were very worried. Yang Xuan then specially built dozens of carriages, filled the carriages with a row of bags filled with lime, and tied cloth ropes to the horses' tails. He also made military carriages, specially equipped with bows and crossbows, and agreed on a date for the battle.
So he ordered the carriage in front, blowing up the ashes with the wind, so that the thieves could not open their eyes, and burned the cloth with fire. The horses were frightened and rushed into the bandit formation. Then they called the carriage behind and fired their bows and crossbows. The sound of drums and drums shook the sky. The thieves scattered in fear. They chased, wounded and beheaded countless thieves, and the leader's head was displayed to the public. Peace was restored within the county.
Zhao Kai, the governor of Jingzhou, falsely accused Yang Xuan of not killing the thieves himself, but of claiming his merits.
Yang Xuanxiang and Zhang Zuo, Zhao Kai had party members to help, so the court used a carriage to recall Yang Xuan.
The ban was tight and there was no chance to explain the reason, so he bit his arm and it bled, and wrote a memorial in blood, detailing the situation of defeating the thief. He also talked about Zhao Kai's false accusation and secretly called his relatives to report to the court.
The imperial edict forgave Yang Xuan and worshiped him as Yilang, but Zhao Kai was accused of falsely accusing others.
Yang Xuan was promoted three times and became the prefect of Bohai. He showed signs of heterodoxy wherever he went, and was later dismissed due to circumstances.
Later, the minister ordered Zhang Wente to recommend him to the minister, Pushe.
He asked to retire due to illness and died at home.


