Chunk 0: 
original: 
李通，字次元，南阳宛人也。
世以贷殖著姓。
父守，身长九尺，容貌绝异，为人严毅，居家如官廷。
初事刘歆，好星历谶记，为王莽宗卿师。
通亦为五威将军从事，出补巫丞，有能名。
莽未，百姓愁怨，通素闻守说谶云 刘氏复兴，李氏为辅 ，私常怀之。
且居家富逸，为闾里雄，以此不乐为吏，乃自免归。
及下江、新市兵起，南阳骚动，通从弟轶，亦素好事，乃共计议曰： 今四方扰乱，新室且亡，汉当更兴。
南阳宗室，独刘伯升兄弟泛爱容众，可与谋大事。 通笑曰： 吾意也。 会光武避吏在宛，通闻之，即遣轶往迎光武。
光武初以通士君子相慕也，故往答之。
及相见，共语移日，握手极欢。
通因具言谶文事，光武初殊不意，未敢当之。
时守在长安，光武乃微观通曰： 即如此，当如宗卿师何？ 通曰： 已自有度矣。 因复备言其计。
光武既深知通意，乃遂相约结，定谋议，期以材官都试骑士日，欲劫前队大夫及属正，因以号令大众。
乃使光武与轶归舂陵，举兵以相应。
遣从兄子季之长安，以事报守。
季于道病死，守密知之，欲亡归。
素与邑人黄显相善，时显为中郎将，闻之，谓守曰： 今关门禁严，君状貌非心，将以此安之？
不如诣阙自归。
事既未然，脱可免祸。 守从其计，即上书归死，章未及报，留阙下。
会事发觉，通得亡走，莽闻之，乃系守于狱。
而黄显为请曰： 守闻子无状，不敢逃亡，守义自信，归命宫阙。
臣显愿质守俱东，晓说其子。
如遂悖逆，令守北向刎首，以谢大恩。 莽然其言。
会前队复上通起兵之状，莽怒，欲杀守，显争之，遂并被诛，及守家在长安者尽杀之。
南阳亦诛通兄弟、门宗六十四人，皆焚尸宛市。
时，汉兵亦已大合。
通与光武、李轶相遇棘阳，遂共破前队，杀甄阜、梁丘赐。
translation: 
Li Tong, whose courtesy name was Ciyuan, was from Wan County, Nanyang County.
He has been famous for doing business for generations.
His father, Li Shou, was nine feet tall and his appearance was very different from ordinary people. He was serious and resolute, and his home was as if he were in a court.
At first, he worked with Liu Xin. He was fond of astronomical calculations and prophecies for predicting bad luck. He became Wang Mang's disciple.
Li Tong also worked for General Wuwei, and later became the magistrate of Wu County, with a reputation for being capable.
In the last years of Wang Mang's reign, the people were worried and resentful. Li Tong once heard his father's prophecy about the revival of the Liu family and the Li family as an assistant, and he often thought about it.
Because his family was very wealthy and ranked first in the township, he did not want to be an official, so he voluntarily resigned and returned home.
Later, Wang Chang's Xiajiang soldiers and Wang Kuang's Xinshi soldiers rose up, causing turmoil in Nanyang. Li Tong's cousin Li Yi, who had always been a good person, discussed together and said: Now that there is chaos from all directions, Wang Mang's regime is about to collapse, and the Han Dynasty should rise.
Among the Liu clan in Nanyang, only the Liu Boxheng brothers could love and accommodate the masses, and could conspire with them to destroy Wang Mang and revitalize the Han Dynasty. Li Tong smiled and said: My opinion is the same. When Guangwu took refuge in Wan, Li Tong heard about it and sent Li Yi to greet Guangwu.
Guang Wuchu admired Li Tong because he was a gentleman, so he went to thank him.
When they met, the two talked for a long time and shook hands happily.
Li Tong told all the prophecies, and Guangwu started to have a big surprise, saying that he didn't dare to take it seriously.
At this time, Li Shou was in Chang'an. Guangwu looked at Li Tong secretly and said, "In this case, what should your father do?" Li Tong said: I already have a solution. So he stated his plan in detail to Guangwu.
Since Guangwu was well aware of Li Tong's intentions, he made an agreement with Li Tong and made a plan to take advantage of the capital's knight test on the first day of autumn to kidnap Zhen Fu, a senior official in the front team, and Qiuci, a subordinate of Zhengliang, so he ordered the public to declare an uprising.
He sent Guangwu and Li Yi back to Chongling and raised their troops accordingly.
He sent his cousin's son Li Ji to Chang'an to tell Li Shou the plan.
Li Ji died of illness on the road. Li Shou knew the secret and wanted to flee back.
Li Shousu was friendly with Huang Xian, a fellow villager. Huang Xian was then the Zhonglang General. When he heard the news, he said to Li Shou: "The gates are now tightly guarded. Your appearance is special. Where will you go?"
It is better to go to the court and ask for your return.
Things haven't happened yet, as long as we can get away, we can avoid disaster. After Li Shou heard what he said, he wrote a letter asking for death. The memorial was not submitted in time, so he stayed in the palace.
At this time, the matter was discovered and Li Tong was able to escape. When Wang Mang found out, he arrested Li Shou and imprisoned him.
Huang Xian interceded for Li Shou and said: Li Shou heard that his son had committed a serious crime and did not dare to flee back. He obeyed his righteousness and returned to you.
I, Huang Xian, would rather take Li Shou to the east and inform his son.
If his son really wants to rebel, I will order Li Shou to commit suicide to the north to thank him for his great kindness. Wang Mang agreed.
At this time, Zhen Fu from the front team wrote another letter stating the situation of Li Tong's army. Wang Mang was angry and prepared to kill Li Shou. Huang Xian argued for him, so Li Shou and Huang Xian were killed together, along with all Li Shou's family members in Chang'an.
Nanyang also killed Li Tong's brothers and sixty-four members of his clan, and burned their bodies in Wan City.
At this time, Han soldiers had also gathered in large numbers.
Li Tong met Guangwu and Li Yi in Jiyang, so they attacked the front line together and killed Zhen Fu and Liang Qiuci.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
更始立，以通为柱国大将军、辅汉侯。
从至长安，更拜为大将军，封西平王；轶为舞阴王；通从弟松为丞相。
更始使通持节还镇荆州，通因娶光武女弟伯姬，是为宁平公主。
光武即位，征通为卫尉。
建武二年，封固始侯，拜大司农。
帝每征讨四方，常令通居守京师，镇百姓，修宫室，起学宫。
五年春，代王梁为前将军。
六年夏，领破奸将军侯进、捕虏将军王霸等十营击汉中贼。
公孙述遣兵赴救，通等与战于西城，破之，还，屯田顺阳。
时，天下略定，通思欲避荣宠，以病上书乞身。
诏下公卿群臣议。大司徒侯霸等曰： 王莽篡汉，倾乱天下。
通怀伊、吕、萧、曹之谋，建造大策，扶助神灵，辅成圣德。
破家为国。忘身奉主，有扶危存亡之义。
功德最高，海内所闻。
通以天下平定，谦让辞位。
夫安不忘危，宜令通居职疗疾。
欲就诸侯，不可听。 于是诏通勉致医药，以时视事。
其夏，引拜为大司空。
通布衣唱义，助成大业，重以宁平公主故，特见亲重。
然性谦恭，常欲避权势。
素有消疾，自为宰相，谢病不视事，连年乞骸骨，帝每优宠之。
令以公位归第养疾，通复固辞。
积二岁，乃听上大司空印绶，以特进奉朝请。
有司奏请封诸皇子，帝感通首创大谋，即日封通少子雄为召陵侯。
每幸南阳，常遣使者以太牢祠通父冢。
十八年卒，谥曰恭侯。
帝及皇后亲临吊，送葬。
子音嗣。音卒，子定嗣。定卒，子黄嗣。黄卒，子寿嗣。
李轶后为朱鲔所杀。
更始之败，李松战死，唯通能以功名终。
translation: 
Gengshi was established, and Li Tong was appointed as the general of Zhuguo and the auxiliary of the Han Dynasty.
From Gengshi to Chang'an, he was promoted to general and granted the title of King of Xiping; Li Yi was appointed as King of Wuyin; and Li Tong's cousin Li Song was appointed as Prime Minister.
Gengshi sent Li Tong back to Jingzhou to guard Jingzhou, so Li Tong married Guangwu's sister Boji, who was Princess Ningping.
Guangwu ascended the throne and recruited Li Tong as a guard.
In the second year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Shihou and worshiped the great minister of agriculture.
Whenever Emperor Guangwu went on an expedition to conquer all directions, he often ordered Li Tong to stay in the capital, calm the people, repair palaces, and build schools.
In the spring of the fifth year, Wang Liang was appointed as the former general.
In the summer of the sixth year, he led ten battalions including Hou Jin, the traitor general, and Wang Ba, the captor general, to attack the Hanzhong thieves.
Gongsun Shu sent troops to rescue them, and Li Tong and others fought with them in Xicheng, defeated the rebels, and returned to camp in Shunyang.
At this time, the world was generally peaceful. Li Tong wanted to avoid honor and favor, so he submitted a letter requesting to resign and go home on the grounds of illness.
Guangwu issued an edict and ordered the officials and ministers to discuss it. The great Situ Houba and others said: Wang Mang has usurped the Han Dynasty and brought chaos to the world.
Li Tongshen took the strategies of Yi Yin, Lu Shang, Xiao He, and Cao Shen into account, established grand plans, supported the gods, and assisted in achieving sainthood.
To sacrifice one's family for the sake of the country, to forget oneself and serve the Lord, is to help people in danger to survive.
It has the highest merit and is known throughout the world.
Li Tong pacified the world and resigned humbly.
An Ding cannot forget the danger and should order Li Tong to take care of his illness.
If you want to return to the vassal state, don't listen. So he ordered Li Tong to treat his illness and work on time.
In the summer of this year, Li Tong was appointed as Grand Sikong.
Li Tong initiated the uprising with common people and helped to achieve the imperial cause, and because of Princess Ningping, he was especially respected.
However, Li Tong was humble by nature and often wanted to avoid power.
He was known to suffer from diabetes mellitus. Ever since he became prime minister, he had taken sick leave and ignored political affairs. He reported illness and returned to his hometown year after year. Emperor Guangwu always treated him favorably and doted on him.
He was ordered to go home to recuperate in his official position, but Li Tong refused again.
After two years, he presented the seal ribbon of Da Sikong to him and granted him a special promotion to participate in the court meeting.
Relevant departments petitioned the princes to be granted the title. Emperor Guangwu was grateful to Li Tong for initiating the great plan, and immediately granted Li Tong's youngest son Li Xiong the title of Marquis of Zhaoling.
Whenever Emperor Guangwu came to Nanyang, he often sent envoys to pay homage to Li Shou's tomb with Tailao etiquette.
Li Tong died in the 18th year of Jianwu's reign. His posthumous title is Gonghou.
The emperor and the empress came in person to pay their respects and pay their respects to the funeral.
After Li Tong died, Ziyin succeeded to the throne, after Li Yin died, Li Ding succeeded, after Li Ding died, his son Li Huang succeeded, and after Li Huang died, his son Li Shou succeeded.
Li Yi was later killed by Zhu Tuna.
When Gengshi was defeated, Li Song also died in battle. Only Li Tong lived his life with fame.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
永平中，显宗幸宛，诏诸李随安众宗室会见，并受赏赐，恩宠笃焉。
论曰：子曰： 富与贵是人之所欲，不以其道得之，不处也。 李通岂知夫所欲而未识以道者乎！
夫天道性命，圣人难言之，况乃亿测微隐，猖狂无妄之福，污灭亲宗，以觖一切之功哉！
昔蒙穀负书，不徇楚难；即墨用齐，义雪燕耻。
彼之趣舍所立，其殆与通异乎？
王常字颜卿，颍川舞阳人也。
王莽未，为弟报仇，亡命江夏。
久之，与王凤、王匡等起兵云杜绿林中，聚众数万人，以常为偏裨，攻傍县。
后与成丹、张卬别入南郡蓝口，号下江兵。
王莽遣严尤、陈茂击破之。
常与丹、卬收散卒入蒌谿，劫略钟、龙间，众复振。
引军与刑州牧战于上唐，大破之，遂北至宜秋。
是时，汉兵与新市、平林众俱败于小长安，各欲解去。
伯升闻下江军在宜秋，即与光武及李通俱造常壁，曰： 愿见下江一贤将，议大事。 成丹、张卬共推遣常。
伯升见常，说以合从之利。
常大悟，曰： 王莽篡弑，残虐天下，百姓思汉，故豪杰并起。
今刘氏复兴，即真主也。
诚思出身为用，辅成大功。 伯升曰： 如事成，岂敢独飨之哉！ 遂与常深相结而去。
常还，具为丹、卬言之。
丹、卬负其从，皆曰： 大丈夫既起，当各自为主，何故受人制乎？ 常心独归汉，乃稍晓说其将帅曰： 往者成、哀衰微无嗣，故王莽得承间篡位。
既有天下，而政令苛酷，积失百姓之心。
民之讴吟思汉，非一日也，故使吾属因此得起。
夫民所怨者，天所去也；民所思者，天所与也。
translation: 
In Yongping, Xianzong came to Wan, and the descendants of Zhaoli met with Anzhong and the Liu clan, and received rewards and favors together.
史官评论道：孔子说过： 富与贵是人们所想得到的，但如果不是以正当的方法得来的，就不要这种富贵。 李通难道是知道那些所欲而不识以道的人吗？
It is difficult for a saint to explain such things as the law of heaven and life, let alone speculative prophecies and arrogant and unfounded welfare, which causes relatives to be killed in the hope of gaining temporary success!
In the past, Meng Gu fled to Yunmeng with a letter and did not die in Chu, but later he dedicated the canon to King Zhao and achieved great merit; King Zhao of Yan attacked Qi, leaving only Ju and Jimo in Qi, but later Tian Dan started from Jimo and defeated the Yan army, finally avenging Qi's shame.
These are all plans for long-term development regardless of short-term success. The trends and choices they make are probably different from Li Tong, right?
Wang Chang, courtesy name Yanqing, was from Wuyang, Yingchuan County.
In his last years, Wang Mang avenged his brother, concealed his name and fled to Jiangxia.
Later, he, Wang Feng, Wang Kuang and others launched an army in the green forest of Yundu, gathering tens of thousands of people, with Wang Chang as a supporting general, to attack neighboring counties.
Later, together with Cheng Dan and Zhang, they gathered at Lankou, Nanjun, and were known as the soldiers under the river.
Wang Mang sent Yan You and Chen Mao to defeat them.
Wang Chang, Cheng Dan and Zhang gathered scattered soldiers into the Ruoxi Valley and plundered the area around Shilong Mountain in Anzhou and Sanzhong Mountain in Suizhou, and the tribe was revived.
He led the army to fight with Jingzhou Mu in Shangtang Township, and defeated Jingzhou Mu, and then reached Yiqiuju in Nanyang in the north.
At this time, the Han soldiers and the troops from Xinshi and Pinglin were all defeated in Xiaochang'an, and all the ministries wanted to disband and leave.
When Bo Sheng heard that soldiers from Xiajiang were in Yiqiu, he went to Wang Chang's camp with Guangwu and Li Tong and said, "I would like to meet a wise general from Xiajiang to discuss important matters." Cheng Dan and Zhang jointly recommended Wang Chang to be dispatched.
Bo Sheng met Wang Chang and explained the benefits of alliance.
Wang Chang was enlightened and said: Wang Mang usurped the Han Dynasty and killed the king. He was cruel and violent and tyrannized the world. The people missed the Han Dynasty, so heroes and heroes rose up together.
Now Liu's revival is God.
I really want to dedicate myself to help achieve great success. Bo Sheng said: If it comes to pass, how dare I enjoy the victory alone? So he got acquainted with Wang Chang and left.
Wang Chang came back and informed Cheng Dan and Zhang of the situation.
Cheng Dan and Zhang, because of their large numbers of soldiers, both said: Once a man rises up, he should take charge of his own affairs. Why should he be restricted by others? Wang Chang's heart only surrendered to the Han Dynasty, so he slowly told his generals: In the past, Emperor Cheng and Emperor Ai declined and had no heirs, so Wang Mang took the opportunity to usurp the throne.
Now that the world has been established, the government's laws are harsh and cruel, and over time it loses the hearts of the people.
The common people have been chanting and thinking about the Han Dynasty for more than a day, and this is what makes us get up.
Whatever the common people resent, God will remove it; whatever the common people miss, God will give it to them.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
举大事，必当下顺民心，上合天意，功乃可成。
若负强恃勇，触情恣欲，虽得天下，必复失之。
以秦、项之势，尚至夷覆，况今布衣相聚草泽？
以此行之，灭亡之道也。
今南阳诸刘举宗起兵，观其来议事者，皆有深计大虑，王公之才，与之并合，必成大功，此天所以祐吾属也。 下江诸将虽屈强少识，然素敬常，乃皆谢曰： 无王将军，吾属几陷于不义。
愿敬受教。 即引兵与汉军及新市、平林合。
于是诸部齐心同力，锐气益壮，遂俱进，破杀甄阜、梁丘赐。
及诸将议立宗室，唯常与南阳士大夫同意欲立伯升，而朱鲔、张卬等不听。
及更始立，以常为廷尉、大将军，封知命侯。
别徇汝南、沛郡，还入昆阳，与光武共击破王寻、王邑。
更始西都长安，以常行南阳太守事，令专命诛赏，封为邓王，食八县，赐姓刘氏。
常性恭俭，遵法度，南方称之。
更始败，建武二年夏，常将妻子诣洛阳，肉袒自归。
光武见常甚欢，劳之曰： 王廷尉良苦。
每念往时共更艰厄，何日忘之。
莫往莫来，岂违平生之言乎？ 常顿首谢曰： 臣蒙大命，得以鞭策托身陛下。
始遇宜秋，后会昆阳，幸赖灵武，辄成断金。
更始不量愚臣，任以南州。
赤眉之难，丧心失望，以为天下复失纲纪。
闻陛下即位河北，心开目明，今得见阙庭，死于遗恨。 帝笑曰： 吾与廷尉戏耳。
吾见廷尉，不忧南方矣。 乃召公卿将军以下大会，具为群臣言： 常以匹夫兴义兵，明于知天命，故更始封为知命侯。
与吾相遇兵中，尤相厚善。 特加赏赐，拜为左曹，封山桑侯。
translation: 
If you are undertaking a major undertaking, you must comply with the people's will and God's will at the moment, in order to be successful.
If you rely on strength and courage and indulge in lust, even if you win the world, you will definitely lose it.
With the power of Emperor Qin and Xiang Yu, they would be overthrown and destroyed, let alone the common people gathering in the grass today?
If this continues, it is tantamount to self-destruction.
Now the Liu clan in Nanyang has raised an army. Those who come to discuss matters have deep plans and great plans. They are the talents of the princes. If we merge with them, we will achieve great success. This is God protecting us! Although the generals in Xiajiang were stubborn and lacked knowledge, they always respected Wang Chang, so they all thanked him and said: Without General Wang, our group almost fell into injustice.
I would like to be taught respectfully. He then led his troops to join the Han army, Xinshi and Pinglin troops.
So all the tribes worked together and became stronger, so they marched together to defeat Zhenfu and Liangqiuci and kill them.
When the generals discussed the establishment of the clan, only Wang Chang and the Nanyang scholar-bureaucrats agreed to support Bosheng, but Zhu Kun, Zhang and others did not listen.
When Gengshi came to the throne, Wang Chang was appointed as a court lieutenant and a general, and he was granted the title of Zhi Minghou.
He also captured Runan and Peijun, and then returned to Kunyang, and together with Guangwu defeated Wangxun and Wangyi.
In Chang'an, the western capital of Gengshi, the king often went to Nanyang to serve as the prefect, and he was ordered to punish and reward him. He was named King Deng, occupied eight counties, and was given the surname Liu.
Wang Changxing was respectful, frugal, and abided by the laws, and people in the south praised him.
The reform failed. In the summer of the second year of Jianwu, Wang Chang took his wife to Luoyang and went topless to apologize to Guangwu.
Guangwu was very happy to see Wang Chang and comforted him by saying: "Wang Tingwei is working hard."
Every time I think about the past and the hardships we experienced together, how can I ever forget them.
You have been away for a long time and have not come back. Do you want to violate your past words? The king often kowtows his head to the ground to apologize and says: I have been appointed by heaven to hold the whip and support your majesty.
They first met in Yiqiu, and later in Kunyang. Fortunately, thanks to the Shen Shen Wu Hui, they became close friends.
Gengshi did not abandon his foolish ministers and appointed Tingwei as the acting governor of Nanyang.
The red eyebrow breaks the new chapter, which makes people sad and disappointed, thinking that the order of the world has been broken again.
I heard that His Majesty ascended the throne in Hebei, and I am very clear-sighted. Now that I can see you in the imperial court, I will never regret it until I die. The emperor smiled and said: "I was just joking with Tingwei."
I saw Wei Ting and no longer worried about the south. So he convened a meeting of the generals and ministers, and specially introduced it to the ministers: Wang Chang and others raised righteous soldiers, and he knew the destiny of heaven, so he was granted the title of Marquis of Zhiming.
When we met in the army, we were particularly affectionate and friendly. He was specially rewarded, worshiped as Zuocao, and granted the title of Shansang Hou.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
后帝于大会中指常谓群臣曰： 此家率下江诸将辅翼汉室，心如金石，真忠臣也。 是日迁常为汉忠将军，遣南击邓奉、董，令诸将皆属焉。
又诏常北击河间、渔阳，平诸屯聚。
五年秋，攻拔湖陵，又与帝会任城，因从破苏茂、庞萌。
进攻下邳，常部当城门战，一日数合，贼反走入城，常追迫之，城上射矢雨下，帝从百余骑自城南高处望，常战力甚，驰遣中黄门诏使引还，贼遂降。
又别率骑都尉王霸共平沛郡贼。
六年春，征还洛阳，令夫人迎常于舞阳，归家上冢。
西屯长安，拒隗嚣。
七年，使使者持玺书，即拜常为横野大将军，位次与诸将绝席。
常别击破隗嚣将高峻于朝那。
嚣遣将过乌氏，常要击破之。
转降保塞羌诸营壁，皆平之。
九年，击内黄贼，破降之。
后北屯故安，拒卢芳。
十二年，薨于屯所，谥曰节侯。
子广嗣。
三十年，徙封石城侯。
永平十四年，坐与楚事相连，国除。
邓晨字伟卿，南阳新野人也。
世吏二千石。
父宏，预章都尉。
晨初聚光武姊元。
王莽末，光武尝与兄伯升及晨俱之宛，与穰人蔡少公等宴语。
少公颇学图谶，言刘秀当为天子。
或曰： 是国师公刘秀乎？ 光武戏曰： 何用知非仆耶？ 坐者皆大笑，晨心独喜。
及光武与家属避吏新野，舍晨庐，甚相亲爱。
晨因谓光武曰： 王莽悖暴，盛夏斩人，此天亡之时也。
往时会宛，独当应耶？ 光武笑不答。
及汉兵起，晨将宾客会棘阳。
汉兵败小长安，诸将多亡家属，光武单马遁走。遇女弟伯姬，与共骑而奔。
translation: 
Later, the emperor pointed to Wang Chang in the meeting and said to the officials: This family leads the generals from the lower reaches of the Yangtze River to support the Han Dynasty, and their hearts are like gold and stone. They are really loyal ministers! On this day, King Tianqian Chang was a loyal general of the Han Dynasty. He sent him south to attack Deng Feng and Dong Yijin, and ordered all the generals to belong to him.
He also ordered the king to attack Hejian and Yuyang from the north to pacify the settlements.
In the autumn of the fifth year of Jianwu, he captured Huling and met with the emperor in Rencheng, thus defeating Sumao and Pang Meng from the emperor.
During the attack on Xiapi, Wang Chang's troops fought at the city gate. On the first day, the thieves fled into the city. Wang Chang pursued and forced them. Arrows rained down on the city. The emperor watched from a high place in the south of the city with more than a hundred riders. Wang Chang fought bravely and sent Zhonghuangmenchi to issue an edict to lure the thieves back. The thieves surrendered.
He also led the cavalry captain Wang Ba to defeat the Peijun thieves.
In the spring of the sixth year of Jianwu, he returned to Luoyang and ordered his wife to welcome Wang Chang in Wuyang, return home and go to the tomb.
Xitun troops were stationed in Chang'an and rejected Wei Xiao.
In the seventh year of Jianwu's reign, Guangwu sent an envoy with a seal to worship Wang Chang as the General of Hengye, and his rank was distinguished from that of other generals.
Wang Changbie defeated Wei Xiao and general Gao Jun was in Chaona.
Kaixiao sent his generals to pass through Wushi County, and Wang Chang invited him to attack and defeat Kaixiao's tribe.
He also surrendered the walls of the Qiang camps and pacified them all.
In the ninth year of Jianwu's reign, he attacked the yellow thieves and defeated them.
Later, he went to Gu'an in Beitun and refused Lu Fang.
In the twelfth year of Jianwu's reign, he died in the garrison and was given the posthumous title of Jiehou.
His son Wang Guang succeeded to the throne.
In the 30th year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Shicheng.
In the 14th year of Yongping, the fiefdom was abolished due to his involvement in the rebellion of King Chu.
Deng Chen, whose courtesy name was Weiqing, was from Xinye County, Nanyang County.
Both his great-grandfather and grandfather served as governors and had an estate of 2,000 shi.
His father, Deng Hong, was the captain of Yuzhang.
Deng Chen initially married Guangwu's sister Liu Yuan.
At the end of Wang Mang's reign, Guangwu, his brothers Bosheng and Deng Chendu went to Wancheng and talked with Cai Shaogong, a Rang man.
The young master learned from the prophecies and said that Liu Xiu should be the emperor.
Some people said: Is it the Grand Master Liu Xiu? Guangwuxi replied: How do you know it's not me? Everyone sitting there laughed, and Deng Chen felt happy.
When Guangwu and his family took refuge in Xinye, they lived in Deng Chen's home and became very dear to each other.
Deng Chen therefore said to Guangwu: "Wang Mang is rebellious and violent, killing people in midsummer. This is the time for the death of Wang Mang."
Is it true that I met in Wancheng before? Guangwu smiled but didn't answer.
When the Han soldiers rose up, Deng Chen led his guests to meet in Jiyang.
The Han army was defeated in Xiaochang'an, and many generals lost their families. Guangwu fled alone, met his sister Boji, and rode with her.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
前行复见元，超令上马。
元以手捴曰： 行矣，不能相救，无为两没也。 会追兵至，元及三女皆遇害。
汉兵退保棘阳，而新野宰乃污晨宅，焚其冢墓。
宗族皆恚怒，曰： 家自富足，何故随妇家人入汤镬中？ 最终无恨色。
更始立，以晨为偏将军。
与光武略地颍川，俱夜出昆阳城，击破王寻、王邑。
又别徇阳翟以东，至京、密，皆下之。
更始北都洛阳，以晨为常山太守。
会王郎反，光武自蓟走信都，晨亦间行会于巨鹿下，自请从击邯郸。
光武曰： 伟卿以一身从我，不如以一郡为我北道主人。 乃遣晨归郡。
光武追铜马、高胡群贼于冀州，晨发积射士千人，又遣委输给军不绝。
光武即位，封晨房子侯。
帝又感悼姊没于乱兵，追封谥元为新野节义长公主，立庙于县西。
封晨长子汎为吴房侯，以奉公主之祀。
建武三年，征晨还京师，数宴见，说故旧平生为欢。
晨从容谓帝曰： 仆竟办之。 帝大笑。
从幸章陵，拜光禄大夫，使持节监执金吾贾复等击平邵陵、新息贼。
四年，从幸寿春，留镇九江。
晨好乐郡职，由是复拜为中山太守，吏民称之，常为冀州高第。
十三年，更封南侯。
入奉朝请，复为汝南太守。
十八年，行幸章陵，征晨行廷尉事。
从至新野，置酒酣宴，赏赐数百千万，复遣归郡。
晨兴鸿郤陂数千顷田，汝土以殷，鱼稻之饶，流衍它郡。
明年，定封西华侯，复征奉朝请。
二十五年卒，诏遣中谒者备公主官属礼仪，招迎新野主魂，与晨合葬于北芒。
乘舆与中宫亲临丧送葬。
谥曰惠侯。
小子棠嗣，后徙封武当。
棠卒，子固嗣。
translation: 
Go ahead and see your sister Liu Yuan again and tell her to get on the horse quickly.
Liu Yuan pointed his finger and said: "Go away quickly, you can't save me, don't die with me." Just as the pursuers arrived, Liu Yuan and her three daughters were killed.
The Han soldiers retreated to Jiyang, but the Xinye County magistrate defiled Deng Chen's house and burned the tombs of Deng Chen's ancestors.
The Deng clan was all angry and said, "The family is already rich, why do they follow the woman's family into the soup pot?" Deng Chen finally showed no regrets.
After Gengshi ascended the throne, he made Deng Chen the partial general.
Together with Guangwu Luo Yingchuan, they went out to Kunyang City at night and defeated Wang Xun and Wang Yi.
They also attacked east of Yangzhai, and captured all of them as far as Jingxian and Mixian.
Gengshi's northern capital was Luoyang, with Deng Chen as the governor of Changshan.
When Wang Lang rebelled, Guangwu went from Ji to Xindu. Deng Chen also took a small path to meet at the foot of Julu. Deng Chen asked himself to attack Handan.
Guangwu said: "It is better for you to follow me with your whole body than to be my master of the North Road with one county." So he sent Deng Chen back to the county.
When Guangwu chased Bronze Horse and Gaohu bandits in Jizhou, Deng Chen sent out thousands of archers and transportation teams to continuously transport food for the army.
Guangwu ascended the throne and made Deng Chen the Marquis of Fangfang.
The emperor also mourned the death of his sister Liu Yuan in the rebellion. He posthumously named Liu Yuan the eldest princess of Xinye Festival and built a temple in the west of the county.
Deng Xun, the eldest son of Deng Chen, was granted the title of Marquis of Wu Fang in order to offer sacrifices to the princess.
In the third year of Jianwu's reign, Deng Chen was called back to Beijing and had many banquets, where he enjoyed talking about old times and his life.
Deng Chen calmly said to the emperor: I was right. The emperor laughed.
From the emperor to Zhangling, he was worshiped as Doctor Guanglu and sent him to supervise Zhijinwu Jiafu and others to attack and pacify the Shaoling and Xinxi bandits.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, from Guangwu to Shouchun, he stayed in Jiujiang.
Deng Chen enjoyed his duties as county governor, so he appointed him as the governor of Zhongshan County. Officials and people praised him. It is often ranked first among the counties in Jizhou.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Nanhou.
After entering the imperial court, he became the prefect of Runan.
In the eighteenth year of Jianwu's reign, Guangwu went to Zhangling and summoned Deng Chen to serve as a court captain.
From the emperor to Xinye, he had a banquet with wine and hundreds of millions in rewards, and then sent him back to the county.
Deng Chen built thousands of hectares of Honggu and Pi fields, which made Runan rich. The abundance of fish and rice inspired other counties.
In the second year, he was granted the title of Marquis of Xihua. Then he was summoned back to the capital to be invited by the court.
When Jianwu died in the 25th year of his life, the imperial edict sent him to adopt the etiquette of a princess official, to welcome the soul of the new wild master, and to be buried together with Deng Chen in Beimang.
The emperor and empress attended the funeral in person.
Deng Chen was posthumously named Marquis Hui.
Xiaozi Tangsi, later moved to Wudang.
Tang died, and his son became an heir.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
固卒，子国嗣。
国卒，子福嗣，永建元年卒，无子，国除。
来歙字君叔，南阳新野人也。
六世祖汉，有才力，武帝世，以光禄大夫副楼船将军杨仆，击破南越、朝鲜。
父仲，哀帝时为谏大夫，娶光武祖姑，生歙。
光武甚亲敬之，数共往来长安。汉兵起，王莽以歙刘氏外属，乃收系之，宾客共篡夺，得免。
更始即位，以歙为吏，从入关。
数言事不用，以病去。
歙女弟为汉中王刘嘉妻，嘉遣人迎歙，因南之汉中。
更始败，歙劝嘉归光武，遂与嘉俱东诣洛阳。
帝见歙，大欢，即解衣为衣之，拜为太中大夫。
是时方以陇、蜀为忧，独谓歙曰： 今西州未附，子阳称帝，道里阻远，诸将方务关东，思西州方略，未知所任，其谋若何？ 歙因自请曰： 臣尝与隗嚣相遇长安。其入始起，以汉为名。
今陛下圣德隆兴，臣愿得奉威命，开以丹青之信，嚣必束手自归，则述自亡之势，不足图也。
帝然之。
建武三年，歙始使隗嚣。
五年，复持节送马援，因奉玺书于嚣。
既还，复往说嚣。嚣遂遣子恂随歙入质，拜歙为中郎将。
古者列国兵交，使在其间，所以重兵贵和而不任战也，何况承王命籍重质而犯之哉？
君叔虽单车远使，而陛下之外兄也。
害之无损于汉，而随以族灭。昔宋执楚使，遂有析骸易子之祸。
小国犹不可辱，况于万乘之主，重以伯春之命哉！ 歙为人有信义，言行不违，及往来游说，皆可案复，西州士大夫皆信重之，多为其言，故得免而东归。
translation: 
After solid death, heir to the country.
If the country dies, the son will be blessed with heirs. If he dies in the first year of Yongjian's reign and has no children, the country will be eliminated.
Uncle Lai Shezi is from Xinye County, Nanyang.
My father came to Zhong. He was an admonishing official during the reign of Emperor Ai of the Han Dynasty. He married Guangwu's aunt, and she was born. Lai She's sister was the wife of Liu Jia, the king of Hanzhong. Liu Jia sent people to greet Lai She, so he came south to Hanzhong.
After Emperor Gengshi failed, Lai She persuaded Liu Jia to join Emperor Guangwu, so he and Liu Jia went east to Luoyang.
After the rise of the Han army, Wang Mang imprisoned She since she was a relative of the Liu family, and the guests jointly used force to seize it, so they were spared.
After Gengshi came to the throne, Yishe became an official and followed him into the pass.
Several suggestions were not adopted and he left due to illness.
Lai She's sister was the wife of Liu Jia, the king of Hanzhong. Liu Jia sent people to welcome Lai She, so she went south to Hanzhong.
When Gengshi was defeated, Lai She persuaded Liu Jia to surrender to Guangwu, so he and Liu Jiadong went to Luoyang.
Emperor Guangwu was very happy to see Lai She. He immediately took off his own clothes and put them on Lai She, and appointed him as Taizhong doctor.
At this time, Emperor Wu was worried about Long and Shu, so Lai She took the initiative to ask for help and said: I once met Wei Xiao in Chang'an.
When that man first started his army, he was in the name of reviving the Han Dynasty. Now His Majesty's holy virtue is majestic. I hope that I can follow your orders and enlighten him with unchanging integrity. Wei Xiao will definitely surrender without restraint. Then Gongsun Shu will be destroyed, so there is no need to worry.
Emperor Guangwu thought he was right.
Emperor Guangwu thought he was right. In the third year of Jianwu's reign, Lai She was sent as an envoy to Kaixiao.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, Kai Xiao sent his son Kai Xun to follow Lai She and enter the court as a hostage.
At that time, Shandong was generally pacified. Emperor Guangwu planned to collect Wei Xiao's troops from the west and wanted to attack Shu with them. He also sent Lai She to inform Wei Xiao of his will.
Wei Xiao's subordinates persuaded him and raised many questions, which made him hesitate for a long time. Lai She had always been resolute, so he angrily questioned and blamed Kui Xiao, saying: The emperor thought that you knew good and evil, and the principles of rise and fall, so he wrote to you personally to express his feelings. You expressed your sincerity and sent your son Bochun as a hostage. This is the mutual trust between the emperor and his ministers.
Now, instead of listening to the words of a treacherous villain, making a plan to exterminate the family, betraying the monarch, and implicating his son, is this a violation of loyalty and integrity? The choice that determines good or bad luck is today.
Lai She wanted to step forward and assassinate Kai Xiao, but Wei Xiao got up and entered the inner room, deployed his soldiers, and wanted to kill Lai She. Lai She calmly walked to the car with the talisman, got in, and left.
Wei Xiao became even more angry, and Wang Yuan advised him to kill Lai She. Lai She was loyal and consistent in his words and deeds, which could be verified even when lobbying back and forth. The scholar-bureaucrats in Xizhou trusted and respected him, and many people interceded on his behalf, so Lai She was able to escape and return to the East to the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
八年春，歙与征虏将军祭遵袭略阳，遵道病还，分遣精兵随歙，合二千余人，伐山开道，从番须、回中径至略阳，斩嚣守将金梁，因保其城。
嚣大惊曰： 何其神也！ 乃悉兵数万人围略阳，斩山筑堤，激水灌城。
歙与将士固死坚守，矢尽，乃发屋断木以为兵。
嚣尽锐攻之，自春至秋，其士卒疲弊，帝乃大发关东兵，自将上陇，嚣众溃走，围解。
于是置酒高会，劳赐歙，班坐绝席，在诸将之右，赐歙妻缣千匹。
诏使留屯长安，悉监护诸将。
歙因上书曰： 公孙述以陇西、天水为藩蔽，故得延命假息。
今二郡平荡，则述智计穷矣。
宜益选兵马，储积资粮。
昔赵之将帅多贾人，高帝悬之以重赏。
今西州新破，兵人疲馑，若招以财谷，则其众可集。
臣知国家所给非一，用度不足，然有不得已也。 帝然之。
于是大转粮运，诏歙率征西大将军冯异、建威大将军耿弇、虎牙大将军盖延、扬武将军马成、武威将军刘尚入天水，击破公孙述将田弇、赵匡。
明年，攻拔落门，隗嚣支党周宗、赵恢及天水属县皆降。
初王莽世，羌虏多背叛，而隗嚣招怀其酋豪，遂得为用。
及嚣亡后，五谿、先零诸种数为寇掠，皆营堑自守，州郡不能讨。
歙乃大修攻具，率盖延、刘尚及太中大夫马援等进击羌于金城，大破之，斩首虏数千人，获牛羊万余头，谷数十万斛。
又击破襄武贼傅栗卿等。
陇西虽平，而人饥，流者相望。
歙乃倾仓廪，转运诸县，以赈赡之，于是陇右遂安，而凉州流通焉。
十一年，歙与盖延、马成进攻公孙述将王元、环安于河池、下辨，陷之，乘胜遂进。
蜀人大惧，使刺客刺歙，未殊，驰召盖延。
延见歙，因伏悲哀，不能仰视。
歙叱延曰： 虎牙何敢然！
translation: 
In the spring of the eighth year of Jianwu, Lai She and Zhenglu General Ji Zun attacked Lueyang. Ji Zun fell ill on the road and returned. Ji Zun sent elite troops to follow Lai She. More than two thousand people in total split the mountains and opened a road from Fanxu and Huizhong to Lueyang. They killed Jin Liang, the guard of Wei Xiao, and then defended Lueyang City.
Wei Xiao was very surprised, so he led tens of thousands of soldiers to besiege Lueyang, dug mountains and built embankments, and stored water to flood the city.
Lai She and his soldiers held on desperately, but when they ran out of arrows, they demolished the house and cut down trees to use as weapons.
Wei Xiao used all his elite troops to attack the city. From spring to autumn, his soldiers were very tired. Emperor Guangwu then massively mobilized the Kwantung troops and personally led the troops to Longdi. Kuaixiao's tribe was defeated and fled, relieving the siege.
So a grand celebration cocktail party was held to express Lai She's condolences, and he was given a seat by himself at the right side of the generals. Lai She's wife was given a thousand pieces of silk.
The imperial edict came to Sheliu to garrison Chang'an to monitor the generals.
Lai She then wrote to him and said: Gongsun Shu used Longxi and Tianshui as barriers to shield him, so he was able to postpone his leave.
Now that the two counties have been calmed down, Gongsun Shu's wisdom and tactics have been exhausted.
We should select more troops and horses and accumulate supplies.
In the past, most of Zhao's generals were merchants, and Emperor Gao offered large rewards.
Nowadays, Xizhou has been newly conquered. The soldiers are exhausted and the people are hungry. If they can be recruited with money and grain, they can be mobilized.
I know that the state has a lot of expenditures and insufficient funds, but this is a last resort. Emperor Guangwu agreed.
So a large-scale grain accumulation and transshipment was implemented, and Lai She was ordered to lead General Feng Yi, General Jianwei, Geng Yan, Huya General Gai Yan, Yangwu General Ma Cheng, and Wuwei General Liu Shang into Tianshui and defeat Gongsun Shu's generals Tian Yan and Zhao Kuang.
The next year, when the attack was over, Kaixiao's allies Zhou Zong, Zhao Hui and all the counties in Tianshui County surrendered.
At first, during Wang Mang's reign, many Qiang captives rebelled, but Kui Xiao recruited his chiefs and heroes, so he used them.
After the defeat of Weixiao, Wuxi Valley, Xianling and other tribes invaded and plundered several times. They all built camps and dug trenches to defend themselves, and the states and counties were unable to attack them.
When he came to She, he overhauled his combat equipment and led Gai Yan, Liu Shang and Taizhong doctor Ma Yuan to attack the Qiang in Jincheng. They defeated the Qiang captives, beheaded thousands of people, captured more than 10,000 cattle and sheep, and hundreds of thousands of dendrobium grains.
He also defeated the Xiangwu thieves Fu Liqing and others.
Although Longxi was pacified, there was little food and people were hungry, so the people had to live without food.
Lai She transferred all the grain in the warehouses to various counties for relief and support. As a result, Longxi was stabilized and circulated with Liangzhou.
In the eleventh year of Jianwu's reign, Lai She, Gai Yan, and Ma Cheng attacked Gongsun Shu's general Wang Yuan, Huan'an Yu Hechi, and Xia Bian, and captured them. Take advantage of the victory and move forward.
The Shu people were greatly frightened and sent assassins to kill Lai She. Before he died, they summoned Gai Yan.
When Gai Yan saw Lai She, he fell down in sorrow and could not look up.
Laishe scolded Gai Yan and said: How dare General Huya do this!


Chunk 8: 
original: 
今使者中刺客，无以报国，故呼巨卿，欲相属以军事，而反效儿女子涕泣乎！
刃虽在身，不能勒兵斩公耶！ 延收泪强起，受所诫。
歙自书表曰： 臣夜人定后，为何人所贼伤，中臣要害。
臣不敢自惜，诚恨奉职不称，以为朝廷羞。
夫理国以得贤为本，太中大夫段襄，骨鲠可任，愿陛下裁察。
又臣兄弟不肖，终恐被罪，陛下哀怜，数赐教督。 投笔抽刃而绝。
帝闻大惊，省书揽涕，乃赐策曰： 中郎将来歙，攻战连年，平定羌、陇，忧国忘家，忠孝彰著。
遭命遇害，呜呼哀哉！ 使太中大夫赠歙中郎将、征羌侯印绶，谥曰节侯，谒者护丧事。丧还洛阳，乘舆缟素临吊送葬。
以歙有平羌、陇之功，故改汝南之当乡县为征羌国焉。
子褒嗣。
十三年，帝嘉歙忠节，复封歙弟由为宜西侯。
褒子棱，尚显宗女武安公主。
棱早殁，褒卒，以棱子历为嗣。
论曰： 世称来君叔天下信士。
夫专使乎二国之间，岂厌诈谋哉？
而能独以信称者，良其诚心在乎使两义俱安，而己不私其功也。
translation: 
Now that I have been assassinated by an assassin, I can no longer serve the country, so I called you here to ask for military orders. Instead, you followed the example of your children and cried bitterly!
Although I have a stabbing blade in my body, can't I kill you with my sword? Gai Yan held back his tears and stood up forcefully to accept Lai She's warning.
Lai She wrote a note saying: I was stabbed in the vital part by someone unknown in the dead of night.
The minister did not dare to cherish his own life. He only regretted that he had not completed his duties and felt that the court was ashamed.
Governing the country is based on the acquisition of worthy persons. Duan Xiang, the Taizhong doctor, can be appointed with integrity. May your Majesty rule and review.
Also, my brother is not wise and may end up committing a crime. Please show mercy to your majesty and give more advice to the inspector.
After he finished writing, he dropped the pen, took out the knife stuck in his body, and died. Guangwu was shocked when he heard the news. He looked at his watch and wiped away his tears, and then gave a policy letter saying: Zhonglang will come to She, and he has been fighting for years, pacifying Qiang and Long. He is worried about his country and forgets his family. He has outstanding loyalty and filial piety. He is assassinated. How sad!
He sent the Taizhong doctor to present the seals and ribbons of General Shezhong and the Marquis of Qiang, and gave him the posthumous title of Marquis of Jie. He also sent visitors to take care of the funeral. The coffin returned to Luoyang, and the emperor was buried in white mourning clothes.
Since then, She has made great achievements in pacifying the Qiang and Long, so Dangxiang County in Runan County was changed to conquer the Qiang Kingdom.
The son comes to praise the successor.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, the emperor commended Lai She's Zhongjie Festival and granted Lai She's younger brother the title of Marquis of Yixi.
Lai Baozi Lai Xun married the eminent daughter Princess Wu'an.
Lai Xun died early, and after Lai Bao died, Lai Xun son came to the throne.
The historian commented: The world calls Uncle Laijun a believer in the world.
As a special envoy between the two countries, is he still tired of deception?
And he is famous for his integrity in the world because his sincerity is to make both parties feel comfortable, but he himself is not selfish and seeking merit!


