Chunk 0: 
original: 
吴祐字季英，陈留长垣人也。
父恢，为南海太守。
祐年十二，随从到官。
恢欲杀青简以写经书，祐谏曰： 今大人逾越五领，远在海滨，其俗诚陋，然旧多珍怪，上为国家所疑，下为权戚所望。
此书若成，则载之兼两。
昔马援以薏苡兴谤，王阳以衣囊徼名。
嫌疑之间，诚先贤所慎也。 恢及止，抚其首曰： 吴氏世不乏季子矣。 及年二十，丧父，居无檐石，而不受赡遗。
常牧豕于长坦泽中，行吟经书。
遇父故人，谓曰： 卿二千石子而自业贱事，纵子无耻，奈先君何？ 祐辞谢而已，守志如初。
后举孝廉，将行，郡中为祖道，祐越坛共小史雍丘黄真欢语移时，与结友而别。
功曹以祐倨，请黜之。
太守曰： 吴季英有知人之明，卿且勿言。 真后亦举孝廉，除新蔡长，世称其清节。
时，公沙穆来游太学，无资粮，乃变服客佣，为祐赁舂。
祐与语大惊，遂共定交于杵臼之间。
祐以光禄四行迁胶东侯相。
时济北戴宏父为县丞，宏年十六，从在丞舍。
祐每行园，常闻讽诵之音，奇而厚之，亦与为友，卒成儒宗，知名东夏，官至酒泉太守。
祐政唯仁简，以身率物。
民有争诉者，辄闭閤自责，然后断其讼，以道譬之。或身到闾里，重相和解。
自是之后，争隙省息，吏人怀而不欺。
translation: 
◆Biography of Wu You, courtesy name Ji Ying, a native of Changyuan County, Chenliu County.
His father, Wu Hui, was the governor of Nanhai.
When Wu You was twelve years old, he followed his father to the official residence.
Wu Hui wanted to use bamboo slips to write scriptures, but Wu You dissuaded him and said: "Now that you have passed Wuling, you will see the seaside in the distance. The customs here are simple, but there are many rare and rare things. The imperial court is suspicious of them above, and the powerful and powerful people below want to possess them."
If your book is finished, it will need many vehicles to carry it.
Once upon a time, Ma Yuan was falsely accused of transporting coix back home, saying that all he transported were pearls and rhinoceros. Wang Yang was good at carriages and horses, and was well-dressed. He was very good at traveling, but he could not carry anything more than a bag, and others said he could make gold.
Therefore, the place of suspicion was the most cautious place for ancient sages. After hearing what he said, Wu Hui stopped writing scriptures, stroked Wu You's back and said, "My surname is Wu, and I have had a son for generations!" At the age of twenty, Wu You's father died, and the family did not have a single stone of food savings, but he did not accept gifts from others.
He often herds pigs in the Changyuan swamp and hums scriptures.
When he met his father's friend, he was asked: You are the son of Erqianshi but you are doing such a despicable job. Even if you don't feel ashamed, how can you be worthy of your underground father? Wu You said thank you and herded the pigs as before.
Later, he was promoted to Xiaolian, and when he was about to leave, a wine ceremony was held in the county to see him off. Wu You went over the altar and talked and laughed with Xiaoshi Yongqiu Huang Zhen for a long time, and they became friends and said goodbye.
The county meritorious officer thought Wu You was arrogant and rude, so he asked the prefect to reprimand him.
The prefect said: Wu Jiying can know people, so don't talk about it for now. Huang Zhen later promoted him to Xiaolian and appointed him as the new chief of Cai. The world praised him for his integrity and integrity.
At this time, Gongshamu came to the capital to visit the Imperial Academy and had no food to eat, so he changed his clothes and worked to pound rice for Wu You.
Wu You was greatly surprised when he talked to him, so he arranged to meet him at a place where rice was pounded.
Wu You cited the four qualities of Guanglu, honesty, simplicity, humility and frugality, and moved to Jiaodong to be the Marquis.
At this time, Dai Hong's father was the county magistrate in Jibei Province. Dai Hong was sixteen years old and lived with him in the prime minister's house.
Whenever Wu You visited the garden, he often heard voices chanting, and he treated him strangely and kindly. He also made friends with him. After all, Dai Hong became a Confucian scholar, became famous in the East, and became the prefect of Jiuquan.
Wu You was a benevolent and simple person in politics and led by example.
When common people have disputes, they often reflect behind closed doors and then settle the case, admonishing them with morality, and sometimes going to the village in person to urge reconciliation.
From then on, there were fewer disputes among the people, and the officials were virtuous and refrained from deception.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
啬夫孙性私贼民钱，市衣以进其父，父得而怒曰： 有君如是，何忍欺之！ 促归伏罪。
性惭惧，诣阁持衣自首。
祐屏左右问其故，性具谈父言。
祐曰： 掾以亲故，受污秽之名，所谓 观过斯知人矣 。 使归谢其父，还以衣遗之。
又安丘男子毋丘长与母俱行市，道遇醉客辱其母，长杀之而亡，安丘追踪于胶东得之。
祐呼长谓曰： 子母见辱，人情所耻。
然孝子忿必虑难，动不累亲。
今若背亲逞怒，白日杀人，赦若非义，刑若不忍，将如之何？ 长以械自系，曰： 国家制法，囚身犯之。
明府虽加哀矜，恩无所施。 祐问长： 有妻、子乎？ 对曰： 有妻未有子也。 即移安丘逮长妻，妻到，解到桎梏，使同宿狱中，妻遂怀孕。
至冬尽行刑，长泣谓母曰： 负母应死，当何以报吴君乎？ 乃啮指而吞之，含血言曰： 妻若生子，名之 吴生 ，言我临死吞指为誓，属儿以报吴君。 因投缳而死。
祐在胶东九年，迁齐相，大将军梁冀表为长史。
及冀诬奏太尉李固，祐闻而请见，与冀争之，不听。
时扶风马融在坐，为冀章草，祐因谓融曰： 李公之罪，成于卿手。
李公即诛，卿何面目见天下之人乎？ 冀怒而起入室，祐亦径去。
冀遂出祐为河间相，因自免归家，不复仕，躬灌园蔬，以经书教授。
年九十八卒。
长子凤，官至乐浪太守；少子恺，新息令；凤子冯，鲷阳侯相：皆有名于世。
延笃字叔坚，南阳犨人也。
少从颍川唐溪典受《左氏传》，旬日能讽之，典深敬焉。
又从马融受业，博通经传及百家之言，能著文章，有名京师。
举孝廉，为平阳侯相。
到官，表龚遂之墓，立铭祭祠，擢用其后于畎亩之间。以师丧弃官奔赴，五府并辟不就。
桓帝以博士征，拜议郎，与朱穆、边韶共著作东观。
稍迁侍中。帝数问政事，笃诡辞密对，动依典义。
迁左冯翊，又徙京兆尹，其政用宽仁，忧恤民黎，擢用长者，与参政事，郡中欢爱，三辅咨嗟焉。
先是陈留边凤为京兆尹，亦有能名，郡人为之语曰： 前有赵、张、三王，后有边、延二君。
时，皇子有疾，下郡县出珍药，而大将军梁冀遣客赍书诣京兆，并货牛黄。
笃发书收客，曰： 大将军椒房外家，而皇子有疾，必应陈进医方，岂当使客千里求利乎？ 遂杀之。
冀惭而不得言，有司承旨欲求其事。
笃以病免归，教授家巷。
translation: 
The stingy husband Sun Xing secretly took money from the people and bought clothes for his father. His father took the clothes and got angry and said: "With such a good appearance, how can I have the heart to deceive him?" Urge him to confess his sins.
Sun Xing was ashamed and afraid, so he took his clothes and surrendered to the pavilion.
Wu You moved the people around him and asked him why. Sun Xing told him everything his father said.
Wu You said: You have received a bad reputation because of your father. It is said that you will know what kind of person you are by looking at your mistakes.  He sent him back to thank his father and gave him the clothes he bought.
Another man from Anqiu, Guanqiu Chang, was walking in the city with his mother. He met a drunkard and insulted his mother. Guanqiu Chang killed the drunkard and ran away. Qiu tracked him to Jiaodong and captured Guanqiu Chang.
Wu You called Chief Guanqiu and said: "My son's mother has been insulted. This is a shameful thing."
However, a filial son must consider the consequences of his anger, and his actions must not harm his parents.
Now you are angry behind your parents' back and kill people in daylight. It is unjust to pardon you; but you cannot bear to be punished even more. What should you do? Chief Guanqiu tied his hands with weapons and said: "The state makes laws, but I personally break the laws. Although you have pity on me, you cannot show mercy."
Wu You asked Guanqiu if he had a wife. Answer: I have a wife but no son. So he moved to Anqiu and arrested the wife of Chief Guanqiu. When his wife arrived, he released the shackles of Chief Guanqiu and made her sleep with him in prison. As a result, his wife became pregnant.
When the execution came at the end of winter, Chang Guanqiu cried and said to his mother: "I have failed my mother and deserve to die. How should I repay Jun Wu?" So he bit off a finger and swallowed it, and said with blood: If my wife gives birth to a son, I will name him Wu Sheng. He said that I will swallow my finger before I die as an oath, and I will tell my son to repay Mr. Wu. Hanged himself to death.
In the ninth year of Wu You's stay in Jiaodong, he was transferred to the post of Prime Minister of Qi, and General Liang Ji recommended him as Chang Shi.
Later, Liang Ji falsely accused Li Gu, the commander-in-chief, and Wu You heard about it. He went to see Liang Ji and argued for Li Gu, but Liang Ji refused to listen.
At that time, Ma Rong of Fufeng was sitting and writing a memorial for Liang Ji. Wu You said to Ma Rong: Mr. Li's crime was committed by your hands.
If Mr. Li is executed, how can you show your face to the world? Liang Ji got angry and went into the house, but Wu You left without saying goodbye.
Liang Ji appointed Wu You as Prime Minister of Hejian, so he resigned and returned home. He no longer worked as an official. He personally watered the garden vegetables and taught his disciples with scriptures.
Died at the age of ninety-eight.
The eldest son, Wu Feng, was the governor of Lelang; the youngest son, Wu Kai, was the new commander;
◆The biography of Yandu, whose courtesy name is Shujian, was born in Tao, Nanyang County.
When he was young, he learned "Zuo Shi Zhuan" from Tang Xidian in Yingchuan and could recite it in just ten days. Tang Xidian respected him very much.
He also learned from Ma Rong, had extensive knowledge of classics and hundreds of schools of thought, was able to write articles, and was very famous in the capital.
He was elected as Xiaolian and appointed as the Marquis of Pingyang.
When he arrived, he repaired Gong Sui's tomb, erected tomb inscriptions, and selected Gong Sui's descendants to serve as officials in the fields. Because the teacher passed away, he abandoned his official position to attend the funeral, and the five prefectures recruited him, but he failed.
Emperor Huan was recruited by doctors and given the post of Yilang, and he worked on writings in Dongguan with Zhu Mu and Bian Shao.
When he was promoted to minister, Emperor Huan asked him many times about political affairs. He did not tell others the actual situation, and his every move followed the rules and regulations.
He was promoted to Zuo Feng Yi and transferred to Jing Zhaoyin. Advocate for the government to be tolerant and benevolent, and care for the people. Selecting people with moral cultivation to participate in political affairs, the county and the people love each other, and the third assistant praised his political achievements.
In the past, Chen Liubianfeng was a Jingzhaoyin, and he also had a reputation for being capable. People in the county made up a colloquial saying: There are three kings in front of him, Zhao and Zhang, and two kings in the back are Bianyan.
At this time, the prince fell ill and ordered the counties to seek precious medicines. General Liang Ji sent guests with letters to sell bezoars in Jingzhao.
Yan Du opened a letter to arrest the guests, saying: "The general is the empress's maternal wife. The prince is sick and must submit a medical prescription. Should we send the guests thousands of miles to seek profit?"
So he killed the guests. Liang Ji felt ashamed, but he couldn't say that the officials followed Liang Ji's wishes and wanted to cause trouble.
Yandu was dismissed from his post due to illness and returned home, teaching in the alley where he lived to make ends meet.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
时人或疑仁孝前后之证，笃乃论之曰：观夫仁孝之辩，纷然异端，互引典文，代取事据，可谓笃论矣。
夫人二致同源，总率百行，非复铢两轻重，必定前后之数也。
而加欲分其大较，体而名之，则孝在事亲，仁施品物。
施物则功济于时，事亲则德归于已。
于己则事寡，济时则功多。
推此以言，仁则远矣。
然物有出微而著，事有由隐而章。
近取诸身，则耳有听受之用，目有察见之明，足有致远之劳，手有饰卫之功，功虽显外，本之者心也。
远取诸物，则草木之生，始于萌牙，终于弥蔓，枝叶扶疏，荣华纷缛，末虽繁蔚，致之者根也。
夫仁人之有孝，犹四体之有心腹，枝叶之有本根也。
圣人知之，故曰： 夫孝，天之经也，地之义也，人之行也。  君子务本，本立而道生，孝悌也者，其为仁之本与！ 然体在难备，物性好偏，故所施不同，事少两兼者也。
如必对其优劣，则仁以枝叶扶疏为大，孝以心体本根为先，可无讼也。
或谓先孝后仁，非仲尼序回、参之意。
盖以为仁孝同质而生，纯体之者，则互以为称，虞舜、颜回是也。
若偏而体之，则各有其目，公刘、曾参是也。
夫曾、闵以孝悌为至德，管仲以九合为仁功，未有论德不先回、参，考功不大夷吾。
以此而言，各从其称者也。
前越巂太守李文德素善于笃，时在京师，谓公卿曰： 延叔坚王佐之才，奈何屈千里之足乎？ 欲令引进之。
笃闻，乃为书止文德曰：夫道之将废，所谓命也。
translation: 
At that time, some people were confused about the issue of which benevolence and filial piety came first, so Yandu discussed it. He said: It seems that there are many opinions on the debate about benevolence and filial piety. Everyone quoted scriptures and obtained factual evidence. It can be said that it was a profound discussion.
Human benevolence and filial piety have the same origin. They govern all people's words and deeds. There is no need to care about the importance of baht and the importance of baht. It is necessary to distinguish which is ahead and which is behind.
If you want to make a rough distinction between the two, generally speaking, filial piety is about nurturing relatives, and benevolence extends to all things.
Being transitive means making a contribution to society, and raising relatives means that moral cultivation lies within oneself.
If you have few things to do for yourself, your contribution to society is multifaceted.
From this point of view, the role of benevolence is broad.
However, things sometimes become obvious because of their insignificance, and things sometimes become obvious because of their obscurity.
As far as the body is concerned, the ears are for hearing sounds, the eyes are for observation, the legs are for walking, and the hands are for defense. Although their functions are exposed, it is the heart that gives orders.
As far as things are concerned, the growth of grass and trees begins with buds and eventually becomes lush, with branches and leaves spread out and flowers blooming like brocade. However, it is not like this at the end, but what makes it grow like this is the roots of grass and trees.
A benevolent person has filial piety, just like a body has a confidant, branches and leaves have roots.
Therefore, the ancient saints said: Filial piety is the scripture of heaven, the righteousness of earth, and the conduct of man.  A gentleman concentrates on the basic work. Once the foundation is established, the Tao will emerge.
Be filial to your parents, respect your elders, this is the basis of benevolence. However, this matter is so big that it is difficult to be comprehensive, and the nature of the matter is biased. Therefore, due to the different methods, things rarely have both. If we must discuss their merits and demerits, then benevolence should be based on the sparse branches and leaves, and filial piety should be based on the heart, body, and roots. In this case, there is no need to argue.
Some people say that filial piety comes first and benevolence comes later, which is not what Zhongni meant after Yan Hui and Zeng Shen.
Mostly benevolence and filial piety come from the same source. Pure virtue is already there, benevolence or filial piety can be called whatever you want, such as Yu Shun and Yan Hui.
If this is not the case, they will each have their own purposes and cannot always be praised as beautiful. For example, Gong Liu is a man of benevolence and virtue, and Zeng Shen is praised for his filial piety.
Zeng Shen and Min Sun regard filial piety and brotherhood as the highest virtue, Guan Zhong regards the nine princes as benevolent merits, no matter how good they are, Yan Hui and Zeng Shen are the first, and Guan Yiwu is not the greatest in the examination of merit.
According to this, everyone is called according to his own name.
Li Wende, the former governor of Yue, usually had a good relationship with Yan Du. At this time in the capital, he said to the ministers: "Yanshu Jian has the talent of a king's assistant, but he can't gallop a thousand miles. What can be done?"
I want the ministers to recommend him. Yandu heard about it and wrote to Li Wende to stop him, saying: The Tao will be abandoned. This is destiny!


Chunk 3: 
original: 
流闻乃欲相为求还东观，来命虽笃，所未敢当。
吾尝昧爽栉梳，坐于客堂。
朝则诵羲、文之《易》，虞、夏之《书》，历公旦之典礼，览仲尼之《春秋》。
夕则消摇内阶，咏《诗》南轩。百家众氏，投闲而作。
洋洋乎其盈耳也，涣烂兮其溢目也，纷纷欣欣兮其独乐也。
当此之时，不知天之为盖，地之为舆；不知世之有人，已之有躯也。
虽渐离击筑，傍若无人，高凤读书，不知暴雨，方之于吾，未足况也。
且吾自束修已来，为人臣不陷于不忠，为人子不陷于不孝，上交不谄，下交不黩，从此而殁，下见先君远祖，可不惭赦。
如此而不以善止者，恐如教羿射者也。
慎勿迷其本，弃其生也。
后遭党事禁锢。
永康元年，卒于家。
乡里图其形于屈原之庙。
笃论解经传，多所驳正，后儒服虔等以为折中。
所著诗、论、铭、书、应讯、表、教令，凡二十篇云。
史弼字公谦，陈留考城人也。父敞，顺帝时以佞辩至尚书、郡守。
弼少笃学，聚徒数百。
仕州郡，辟公府，迁北军中候。
是时，桓帝弟渤海王悝素行险辟，僣傲多不法。
弼惧其骄悖为乱，乃上封事曰：臣闻帝王之于亲戚，爱虽隆，必示之以威；体虽贵，必禁之以度。
如是，和睦之道兴，骨肉之恩遂。
昔周襄王恣甘昭公，孝景皇帝骄梁孝王，而二弟阶宠，终用慢，卒周有播荡之祸，汉有爰盎之变。
translation: 
I heard that you wanted to request a return to Dongguan for me. Although you meant a lot, you really didn’t dare to take it seriously.
I usually get up before dawn and wash myself. After washing, I sit in the living room.
In the morning, I read Fu Xi and Wen Wang's "Yi", Yu and Xia's books, the laws and rituals of Gong Dan, and browsed Zhong Ni's "Spring and Autumn".
In the afternoon, I wandered around the inner steps, chanted the Book of Songs in the Nanxuan Hall, and read the books of hundreds of schools of thought in my spare time.
The voice is loud and clear, the ears are full of eloquence, the literary talent is brilliant and the eyes are full of things, and all things are numerous, and I am happy to enjoy it alone.
At this time, I didn’t know that heaven was the cover and the earth was the cover. I didn’t know that there were still people in the world and that I still had a body.
Although Gao Jianli sings while building a building as if no one else is around, Gao Feng reads a book and does not know that it is raining heavily, they are not comparable to me.
Since I was young, I have believed that as a minister, I must not fall into disloyalty; as a son, I must not fall into unfilial piety; when making friends with people whose status is higher than mine, I must not flatter myself; when making friends with those whose status is below me, I must not be contemptuous. If you do this to the point of death and meet your ancestors underground, you will not feel ashamed.
If you don't know how to do good things in this way, I'm afraid it's like teaching Yi to shoot and not being able to use small skills as merit.
You must not lose your roots and abandon what you have created.
Later, he was imprisoned by the party.
In the first year of Yongkang, he died at home.
The villagers painted his image in Qu Yuan Temple.
Yandu made many corrections to the scriptures. Post-Confucianism takes piety as the standard.
He has written a total of twenty poems, treatises, inscriptions, books, responses, tables and teachings.
◆Shi Bi's biography, Shi Bi's courtesy name was Gongqian, and he was a native of Kaocheng County, Chenliu County. His father was Chen Chang. During the reign of Emperor Shun, he was promoted to Shangshu and County Sheriff because of his eloquence and flattery.
Shi Bi was eager to learn when he was young and had hundreds of classmates.
He was appointed as an official in the state and county, recruited into the government, and promoted to the rank of Marquis of the Northern Army.
At this time, Emperor Huan's younger brother Bohai King Kui behaved sinisterly and eccentrically, did not abide by the law, and was arrogant and indulgent.
Shi Bi was afraid that his arrogance would lead to chaos, so he secretly wrote to Emperor Huan, saying: I heard that emperors should use power to show their relatives, even if they are close relatives, and restrain them with laws, even if they are in a noble position.
In this way, harmony will flourish and the kindness of flesh and blood will flourish.
In the past, King Xiang of Zhou indulged his younger brother Gan Zhaogong, and Emperor Xiaojing made King Xiao of Liang arrogant and arrogant. Both of these two younger brothers were doted on, which eventually led to rebellion, the disaster of exile in Zhou, and the assassination of Yuan An in Han.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
窃闻渤海王悝，凭至亲之属，恃偏私之爱，失奉上之节，有僣慢之心，外聚剽轻不逞之徒，内荒酒乐，出入无常，所与群居，皆有口无行，或家之弃子，或朝之斥臣，必有羊胜、伍被之变。
州司不敢弹纠，傅相不能匡辅。
陛下隆于友于，不忍遏绝。恐遂滋蔓，为害弥大。
乞露臣奏，宣示百僚，使臣得于清朝明言其失，然后诏公卿平处其法。
法决罪定，乃下不忍之诏。臣下固执，然后少有所许。
如是，则圣朝无伤亲之讥，勃海有享国之庆。
不然，惧大狱将兴，使者相望于路矣。
臣职典禁兵，备御非常，而妄知藩国，干犯至戚，罪不容诛。
不胜愤懑，谨冒死以闻。
帝以至亲，不忍下其事。
后悝竟坐逆谋，贬为廮陶王。
弼迁尚书，出为平原相。
时诏书下举钩党，郡国所奏相连及者多至数百，唯弼独无所上。
诏书前后切却州郡，髡笞掾史。
从事坐传责曰： 诏书疾恶党人，旨意恳恻。
青州六郡，其五有党，近国甘陵，亦考南北部，平原何理而得独无？ 弼曰： 先王疆理天下，画界分境，水土异齐，风俗不同。
它郡自有，平原自无，胡可相比？
若承望上司，诬谄良善，淫刑滥罚，以逞非理，则平原之人，户可为党。
相有死而已，所不能也。 从事大怒，即收郡僚职送狱，遂举奏弼。
会党禁中解，弼以俸赎罪得免，济活者千余人。
translation: 
I heard that Prince Bohai, by virtue of being the emperor's close relative and relying on the emperor's favor, lost the important responsibility of serving the emperor. He was arrogant and did not abide by the law. He gathered some violent and lawless people outside, drank and had fun inside, and went in and out without restraint. Impermanence, the people who are with him are all people whose words and deeds are inconsistent. Some are prodigal sons who are no longer wanted in the family, and some are ministers who have been exiled from the court. There must be a rebellion, with Yang Sheng persuading King Xiao of Liang to seek a Han heir, and Wu Bei persuading King Huainan to rebel.
The state secretary did not dare to impeach and picket him, and Fu Xiang could not fulfill his responsibilities as a supporter.
The emperor was deeply attached to brotherhood and could not bear to stop him. He was afraid that if this situation continued, the harm would be even greater.
Please publish my memorial and show it to all officials so that I can clearly state his fault in the court, and then the emperor will issue an order to the public to deal with it appropriately.
The law decided the crime, and then the emperor couldn't bear the edict to increase the punishment. I still persisted in my opinion and didn't impose any additional punishment.
In this way, the holy dynasty did not compromise the closeness of flesh and blood, and Bohai still enjoyed the celebration of being a feudal country.
Otherwise, I am afraid that if the prison breaks out, the messenger will look at each other on the road, and it will be impossible to save.
My duty is to be in charge of the imperial troops, to guard against extraordinary incidents, and to know the situation in the vassal country. This is an offense against a relative, and the crime cannot be punished.
He was so angry that he risked death to report to the emperor.
The emperor couldn't bear to investigate because of his close relatives.
Later, Liu Kui was convicted of treason and demoted to King Taotao.
Shi Bi was promoted to Shangshu and became Pingyuan Prime Minister.
At this time, the imperial court issued an edict to report people who were related to the party members. There were hundreds of people reported by the prefecture and state, but Shi Bi was the only one who did not report them.
The edicts sternly reprimanded the prefectures and counties, and the officials were shaved off and flogged.
Sitting in a guest house, he asked Shi Bi: "The edict punishes party members, and the purpose is sincere."
Qingzhou belongs to the six counties of Jinan, Le'an, Qiguo, Donglai, Pingyuan, and Beihai. Five of them have Party members. The neighboring country of Ganling is also divided into the north and the south. What reason does Pingyuan have to say that there are only Party members? Shi Bi said: The former king's realm regulated the world, and the realms were divided into different areas. The water and soil were different, and the customs were different.
Other counties have it, but the plain has none. How can it compare?
If, according to the orders of the superiors, one frames good people, tortures them to extract confessions, inflicts arbitrary punishments, and acts recklessly, then every person in Pingyuan County will be a party member.
The only option for me is death, which is something I can't do. Engage was furious and immediately arrested the county officials and threw them into prison. At the same time, Shi Bi was reported to the court.
When the party ban was eased, Shi Bi used his salary to atone for his sins, and he saved more than a thousand people.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
弼为政特挫抑强豪，其小民有罪，多所容贷。
迁河东太守，被一切诏书当举孝廉。弼知多权贵请托，乃豫敕断绝书属。
中常侍侯览果遣诸生赍书请之，并求假盐税，积日不得通。
生乃说以它事谒弼，而因达览书。
弼大怒曰： 太守忝荷重任，当选士报国，尔何人而伪诈无状！ 命左右引出，楚捶数百，府丞、掾史十余人皆谏人廷，弼不对。
遂付安邑狱，即日考杀之。
侯览大怨，遂诈作飞章下司隶，诬弼诽谤，槛车征。
吏人莫敢近者，唯前孝廉裴瑜送到崤渑之间，大言于道傍曰： 明府摧折虐臣，选德报国，如其获罪，足以垂名竹帛，愿不忧不惧。 弼曰：  谁谓荼苦，其甘如荠。
昔人刎颈，九死不恨。 及下廷尉诏狱，平原吏人奔走诣阙讼之。
又前孝廉魏劭毁变形服，诈为家僮，瞻护于弼。
弼遂受诬，事当弃市。
劭与同郡人卖郡邸，行赂于侯览，得减死罪一等，论输左校。
时人或讥曰： 平原行货以免君，无乃蚩乎！ 陶丘洪曰： 昔文王牖里，闳、散怀金。史弼遭患，义夫献宝。
亦何疑焉！ 于是议者乃息。刑竟归田里，称病闭门不出。
数为公卿所荐，议郎何休又讼弼有干国之器，宜登台相，征拜议郎。
侯览等恶之。
光和中，出为彭城相，会病卒。
裴瑜位至尚书。
论曰： 夫刚烈表性，鲜能优宽；仁柔用情，多乏贞直。
吴季英视人畏伤，发言烝烝，似夫儒者；而怀愤激扬，折让权枉，又何壮也！
仁以矜物，义以退身，君子哉！
语曰： 活千人者子孙必封。 史弼颉颃严吏，终全平原之党，而其后不大，斯亦未可论也。
translation: 
When Shi Bi was in power, he dealt hard blows to the powerful and bullies, but for the common people, if they committed crimes, he tolerated them and pardoned them.
Shi Bi was promoted to the governor of Hedong, and he was issued an expedient edict to promote filial piety and integrity. Shi Bi knew that many powerful people would seek connections and use the back door, so he ordered in advance to cut off correspondence.
As expected, Hou Lan, the minister in charge of Zhongchang, sent letters to express favors and asked to borrow salt tax, but he was not received for many days.
The person who sent the letter then said that he had other matters to visit Shi Bi, so he gave him Hou Lan's letter.
Shi Bi was furious and said: The governor has an important responsibility and should be elected as a soldier to serve the country. Who are you? It is unbecoming to cheat like this! He ordered the people around him to take him out and beat him with hundreds of blows. More than a dozen people from the government, including the prime minister and the governor, came to the court to persuade him, but Shi Bi ignored him.
He was handed over to Anyi Prison and tortured to death on the same day.
Hou Lan was very resentful, so he forged an urgent edict and sent it to Sili, slandering Shi Bi and slandering the court, and sent him to the court in a prison car.
None of the officials dared to approach him. Only the former Xiaolian Pei Yu was sent between Gu and Mian, and shouted loudly by the side of the road: The Ming Dynasty destroyed the tyrannical ministers and elected virtuous talents to serve the country. If you commit a crime in this way, you can be famous on bamboo and silk. I hope you don't be afraid. Shi Bi said: Who said tea tastes bitter? It is as sweet as shepherd's purse.
In the past, people cut their necks and died without regret. When Xia Tingwei ordered him to be imprisoned, officials from Pingyuan rushed to the court to complain.
Then Wei Xun, a filial and honest man, disfigured his appearance, changed his clothes, pretended to be a family boy, and looked after Shi Bi.
Shi Bi was framed and should abandon the market.
Wei Xun and the people in the same county sold the temple and residence in the county, paid bribes to Hou Lan, and were able to reduce the death penalty by one degree and sent him to Zuoxiao for labor reform. At that time, people ridiculed this matter and said: "Isn't it stupid for Pingyuan to bribe to avoid the king's crime?"
Tao Qiuhong said: Once upon a time, King Wen was imprisoned here by Zhou. Min Yao and San Yi gave birth to gold to Zhou, and Zhou absolved King Wen of his crime. Shi Bi suffered a disaster, and a righteous man offered a treasure because of it. What can be doubted about this!
The scoffers have nothing to say. Shi Bi returned home after serving his sentence and stayed behind closed doors due to illness.
He Xiu was recommended by the ministers many times. He Xiu also praised Shi Bi for his ability to govern the country and that he should be appointed prime minister and was recruited as Yilang.
Hou Lan and his group hated him.
In Guanghezhong, he became the Prime Minister of Pengcheng and died of illness.
Pei Yu ascended to the rank of Minister.
The historian commented: Strong characters are rarely tolerant and tolerant; benevolent and soft people, because they value emotions, mostly lack integrity.
When Wu Jiying sees other people's misfortune, she looks like a Confucian when she speaks with regret. How brave she is when she is jealous, passionate and generous, and destroys power and evil!
Benevolence means loving things, righteousness means retreating from oneself, what a moral person!
As the saying goes: If you save a thousand people, your descendants will be granted official titles. Shi Bi was a strict official, and more than a thousand so-called party members were implicated in the whole plain, and his descendants were declining. This cannot be regarded as a conclusion.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
卢植字子幹，涿郡涿人也。
身长八尺二寸，音声如钟。
少与郑玄俱事马融，能通古今学，好研精而不守章句。
融外戚豪家，多列女倡歌舞于前。植侍讲积年，未尝转眄，融以是敬之。
学终辞归，阖门教授。
性刚毅有大节，常怀济世志，不好辞赋，能饮酒一石。
时，皇太后父大将军窦武援立灵帝，初秉机政，朝议欲加封爵。
植虽布衣，以武素有名誉，乃献书以规之曰：植闻嫠有不恤纬之事，漆室有倚楹之戚，忧深思远，君子之情。
夫士立争友，义贵切磋。
《书》陈 谋及庶人 ，《诗》咏 询于刍荛 。
植诵先王之书久矣，敢爱其瞽言哉！
今足下之于汉朝，犹旦、奭之在周室，建立圣主，四海有系。论者以为吾子之功，于斯为重。
天下聚目而视，攒耳而听，谓准之前事，将有景风之祚。
寻《春秋》之义，王后无嗣，择立亲长，年均以德，德均则决之卜筮。
今同宗相后，披图案牒，以次建之，何勋之有？
岂横叨天功以为已力乎！
宜辞大赏，以全身名。
又比世祚不竞，仍外求嗣，可谓危矣。
而四方未宁，盗贼伺隙，恒岳、勃碣，特多奸盗，将有楚人胁比，尹氏立朝之变。
宜依古礼，置诸子之官，征王侯爱子，宗室贤才，外崇训道之义，内息贪利之心，简其良能，随用爵之，强干弱枝之道也。
武并不能用。
州郡数命，植皆不就。
建宁中，征为博士，乃始起焉。
translation: 
◆The biography of Lu Zhi, named Zigan, was a native of Zhuo County, Zhuo County.
He is eight feet two inches long and has a voice like a bell.
When he was young, he was a classmate of Zheng Xuan in Ma Rong. He was well versed in ancient and modern studies, and he liked to study intensively and did not like to carve out chapters and sentences.
Ma Rong belonged to a wealthy family, and in front of the lecture hall there were women singing and dancing. Lu Zhi studied with Ma Rong for several years without turning his eyes, so Ma Rong respected him.
After studying, he returned home and taught behind closed doors.
He has a resolute character and a strong sense of integrity. He often cherishes the ambition of making contributions and makes achievements. He is not good at exchanging gifts and can drink a stone at a time.
At that time, the queen's father, the general Dou Wu, had proclaimed himself Ling Emperor and had just taken charge of the country's confidential affairs. The court was discussing the idea of ​​ennobling Luzhi.
Although Lu Zhi was a commoner, he thought Dou Wu had a good reputation, so he wrote a letter to persuade him: I once heard that widows did not worry about their weft, and girls in lacquered houses leaned on pillars and lamented. What they were worried about was not their own affairs, but they were all worried about the country and thinking deeply. This is the noble and patriotic feeling of a gentleman.
Scholars should have upright friends, in order to discipline each other and prevent themselves from falling into injustice.
"The Book" says to consult with the common people. "Poetry" chants: Ask questions about people who collect firewood.
I, Lu Zhi, have been reading the late king’s books for a long time. How dare I begrudge my unreasonable words?
Now to the Han Dynasty, you are just like Zhou Gongdan and Zhao Gong in the Zhou Dynasty. You established the Holy Lord and had relations with the world. Public opinion considers your contribution and takes it as the most important thing.
The world is looking at you, listening to you with its ears, saying that based on the facts of the past, there will be blessings in scenery.
According to the principle of "Spring and Autumn", if a queen has no children, she should choose the elder among her relatives to be her prince; if they are of the same age, they should choose those with good moral cultivation; if they have the same moral cultivation, then it depends on divination.
Now that the same clan has succeeded him, he wears a pattern ultimatum and establishes it in an orderly manner, what credit does it have?
Is it possible to take credit for one's own strength?
You should resign from the great reward and preserve your reputation.
Moreover, in recent times, if Zuo is not strong enough, he still seeks heirs from outside, which can be said to be dangerous.
There is unrest in all directions, and thieves are taking advantage of the opportunity. Hengyue, Bojie, and thieves are particularly numerous. There may be a rebellion in which the Chu people threaten Zibi, and Zhou Qing and Yin Shili will seize the prince's throne.
We should arrange the official positions of the princes according to ancient rituals, recruit the prince's beloved sons, and recruit the talented people of the clan. We should promote moral education and righteousness externally, stop the greed for power internally, select talented people, and appoint and ennoble them at any time. This is a way to strengthen weak branches.
Dou Wu cannot use it.
The prefecture and county called for orders many times, but Lu Zhi refused to respond.
In Jianning, he was recruited as a doctor and then began to serve as an official.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
熹平四年，九江蛮反，四府选植才兼文武，拜九江太守，蛮寇宾服。
以疾去官。
作《尚书章句》、《三礼解诂》。
时，始立太学《石经》，以正《五经》文字，植乃上书曰：臣少从通儒故南郡太守马融受古学，颇知今之《礼记》特多回冗。
臣前以《周礼》诸经，发起秕谬，敢率愚浅，为之解诂，而家乏，无力供缮写上。原得将能书生二人，共诣东观，就官财粮，专心研精，合《尚书》章句，考《礼记》失得，庶裁定圣典，刊正碑文。
古文科斗，近于为实，而厌抑流俗，降在小学，中兴以来，通儒达士班固、贾逵、郑兴父子，并敦悦之。
今《毛诗》、《左氏》、《周礼》各有传记，其与《春秋》共相表里，宜置博士，为立学官，以助后来，以广圣意。
会南夷反叛，以植尝在九江有恩信，拜为庐江太守。
植深达政宜，务存清静，弘大体而已。
岁余，复征拜议郎，与谏议大夫马日磾、议郎蔡邕、杨彪、韩说等并在东观，校中书《五经》记传，补续《汉记》。
帝以非急务，转为侍中，迁尚书。
光和元年，有日食之异，植上封事谏曰：臣闻《五行传》 日晦而月见谓之朓，王侯其舒 。
此谓君政舒缓，故日食晦也。
《春秋传》曰 天子避位移时 ，言其相掩不过移时。
而间者日食自巳过午，既食之后，云雾晻暧。
比年地震，彗孛互见。
臣闻汉以火德，化当宽明。
近色信谗，忌之甚者，如火畏水故也。
案今年之变，皆阳失阴侵，消御灾凶，宜有其道。
translation: 
In the fourth year of Xiping's reign, the Jiujiang barbarians rebelled. The four prefectures elected Lu Zhicai, a civil and military officer, as the prefect of Jiujiang. The barbarians surrendered honestly.
Resigned due to illness.
He wrote "Shangshu Zhangju" and "Exegesis of the Three Body Problems".
At this time, Taixue's "Shijing" was established to correct the text of the "Five Classics". Lu Zhi then wrote a letter saying: When I was young, I studied ancient studies from Ma Rong, the prefect of Tongru Xiannan County, and I knew a little bit about the complexity of the current "Book of Rites".
I used to think that the meanings of the scriptures in "The Rites of Zhou" were eccentric, so I rashly made annotations for them. I was too poor to write them down. I hoped that I could go to Dongguan with two other scholars, rely on the public's financial resources and food, and concentrate on research, sort out the chapters and sentences of the "Book of Rites", examine the errors in the "Book of Rites", review the sacred scriptures, and publish the correct inscriptions.
The ancient liberal arts and science struggle are close to the facts, and the popular customs are suppressed and settled in elementary schools. Since the Zhongxing Dynasty, scholars such as Ban Gu, Jia Kui, and Zheng Xing and his son have all appreciated etiquette and poetry.
Now "Mao Shi", "Zuo Shi", and "Zhou Li" each have biographies, which are mutually reinvented with "Spring and Autumn". Doctors should be established as academic officials to encourage future generations and promote the thoughts of saints.
When the Southern Barbarians rebelled, Lu Zhi was appointed governor of Lujiang because he had shown kindness to the people in Jiujiang.
Lu Zhi clearly understood that what should be done in politics is not to disturb the people, to be peaceful and to promote the general principles.
For more than a year, Ren Yilang was recruited again, and he stayed in Dongguan with the admonishing officials Ma Rishidan, Yilang Cai Yong, Yang Biao, Han Shuo and others to correct the biographies of the Five Classics and supplement the Han Ji.
The emperor thought that this was not a top priority, so he was transferred to the position of Attendant and promoted to Minister.
In the first year of Guanghe, a solar eclipse occurred. Lu Zhi sent a secret message to advise: I heard in the "Five Elements Biography" that when the sun is dark and the moon appears, it means the moon is moving in front of the sun, which is called a moon sign.
This is a reflection of the arrogance of the subordinates when the emperor is relaxed. That is to say, the monarchy is relaxed, so the solar eclipse is dark.
"Spring and Autumn Biography" says that the emperor avoids the sun and goes to bed, which means the time to avoid a solar eclipse.
The solar eclipse passed in just a short time. Recently, the solar eclipse has been past noon. After the eclipse, it was still covered by clouds and mist.
In recent years, there have been earthquakes and comets and stars seeing each other.
I heard that the Han Dynasty relied on fire for virtue and enlightenment on Kuanming.
Getting close to women and believing in framing Zhongliang should be strongly opposed, because fire is afraid of water!
Looking at the changes this year, it turns out that Yang has lost its way and has been invaded by Yin. There should be a way to eliminate and prevent disasters.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
谨略陈八事：一曰用良，二曰原禁，三曰御疠，四曰备寇，五曰修礼，六曰遵尧，七曰御下，八曰散利。
用良者，宜使州郡核举贤良，随方委用，责求选举。
原禁者，凡诸党锢，多非其罪，可加赦恕，申宥回枉。
御疠者，宋后家属，并以无辜委骸横尸，不得收葬，疫疠之来，皆由于此。
宜敕收拾，以安游魂。
备寇者，侯王之家，赋税减削，愁穷思乱，必致非常，宜使给足，以防未然。
修礼者，应征有道之人，若郑玄之徒，陈明《洪范》，攘服灾咎。
遵尧者，今郡守刺史一月数迁，宜依黜陟，以章能否，纵不九载，可满三岁。
御下者，请谒希爵，一宜禁塞，迁举之事，责成主者。
散利者，天子之体，理无私积，宜弘大务，蠲略细微。
帝不省。
中平元年，黄巾贼起，四府举植，拜比中郎将，持节，以护乌桓中郎将宗员副，将北军五校士，发天下诸郡兵征之。
连战破贼帅张角，斩获万余人。
角等走保广宗，植筑围凿堑，造作云梯，垂当拔之。帝遣小黄门左丰诣军观贼形势，或劝植以赂送丰，植不肯。
丰还言于帝曰： 广宗贼易破耳。
卢中郎固垒息军，以待天诛。 帝怒，遂槛车征植，减死罪一等。及车骑将军皇甫嵩讨平黄巾，盛称植行师方略，嵩皆资用规谋，济成其功。
以其年复为尚书。
帝崩，大将军何进谋诛中官，乃召并州牧董卓，以惧太后。
translation: 
I would like to briefly describe the eight things: one is to use good things, the other is to ban, the third is to guard against evil, the fourth is to prepare for bandits, the fifth is to cultivate etiquette, the sixth is to obey Yao, the seventh is to guard against inferiors, and the eighth is to spread benefits.
To utilize talents, states and counties should strictly select virtuous people, appoint them according to their talents, and elect them responsibly.
The vast majority of people originally banned and imprisoned by the party are not guilty and can be pardoned and forgiven, and unjust, false and wrongly convicted can be vindicated.
Yu Feng, the Empress of the Song Dynasty died of grief and anger because of Wang Fu and Cheng A's frame-up. His father and brothers were all executed for their innocence, and their bodies were abandoned and not allowed to be buried. This was all the reason for the occurrence of epidemics and famine.
They should be ordered to be cleaned up to put the wandering souls to rest.
Bei Kou, the prince's family, tax cuts, want to cause chaos because of poverty, extraordinary changes must occur, they should be provided with sufficient living supplies to prevent disasters.
To practice rituals, we should recruit moral people, such as Zheng Xuan, to explain the great law of heaven and earth in "Hong Fan" and eliminate disasters and disasters.
Zun Yao, the governor of the county now, will be transferred several times a month. He should be promoted to the bright ones and deposed to the quiet ones according to their performance, so as to distinguish between the capable and the incompetent. Even if the merit examination cannot be carried out in nine years, the performance examination at three years old will do.
My Majesty, it is forbidden to entertain guests, give gifts, solicit favors, or engage in relationships. All matters involving recommending talents and recommending talents shall be entrusted to the competent departments.
To spread profits, as an emperor, you should not have personal savings, but should promote major events and eliminate trivial details.
The emperor did not adopt it.
In the first year of Zhongping, the Yellow Turban bandits arose. The four prefectures elected Lu Zhi as Bei Zhonglang General. He held the Imperial Court and protected Wuhuan Zhonglang General Zong Yuan as his deputy. He led the five sergeants of the Northern Army and mobilized soldiers from all the counties to conquer the Yellow Turbans.
In several consecutive battles, he defeated the thief commander Zhang Jiao and captured more than 10,000 men.
Zhang Jiao and others fled to Guangzong. Lu Zhi built trenches and made ladders. Guangzong city was about to be conquered. The emperor sent Zuo Feng of Xiaohuangmen to the army to observe the situation of the thieves. Some people persuaded Lu Zhi to send money and goods to Zuo Feng, but Lu Zhi refused.
Zuo Feng returned to the court and said to the emperor: "Guangzong's thieves are easy to defeat. Lu Zhonglang established a stronghold, stopped attacking, and waited for heaven to punish him."
When the emperor heard about it, he was furious and sent a prison car to recall Lu Zhi, who was sentenced to a reduced sentence of death. After the cavalry general Huangfu Song defeated the Yellow Turban bandits, he praised Lu Zhi's strategy in commanding the army. Huangfu Song relied entirely on Lu Zhi's planning and strategy, and thus achieved success.
This year, Lu Zhi was appointed minister again.
When the emperor died, the general He Jin planned to kill the eunuchs, so he summoned Dong Zhuo, the governor of the state, to scare the queen mother.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
植知卓凶悍难制，必生后患，固止之。进不从。
及卓至，果陵虐朝廷，乃大会百官于朝堂，议欲废立。
群僚无敢言，植独抗议不同。
卓怒罢会，将诛植，语在《卓传》。
植素善蔡邕，邕前徙朔方，植独上书请之。
邕时见亲于卓，故往请植事。
又议郎彭伯谏卓曰： 卢尚书海内大儒，人之望也。
今先害之，天下震怖。 卓乃止，但免植官而已。植以老病求归，惧不免祸，乃诡道从轘辕出。
卓果使人追之，到怀，不及。
遂隐于上谷，不交人事。
冀州牧袁绍请为军师。
初平三年卒。
临困，敕其子俭葬于土穴，不用棺椁，附体单帛而已。
所著碑、诔、表、记凡六篇。
建安中，曹操北讨柳城，过涿郡，告守令曰： 故北中郎将卢植，名著海内，学为儒宗，士之楷模，国之桢干也。
昔武王入殷，封商容之闾；郑丧子产，仲尼陨涕。
孤到此州，嘉其余风。
《春秋》之义，贤者之后，宜有殊礼。
亟遣丞掾除其坟墓，存其子孙，并致薄醊，以彰厥德。 子毓，知名。
论曰：风霜以别草木之性，危乱而见贞良之节，则卢公之心可知矣。
夫蜂虿起怀，雷霆骇耳，虽贲、育、荆、诸之论，未有不冘豫夺常者也。
当植抽白刃严阁之下，追帝河津之间，排戈刃，赴戕折，岂先计哉？
君子之于忠义，造次必于是，颠沛必于是也。
赵岐字邠卿，京兆长陵人也。
初名嘉，生于御史台，因字台卿，后避难，故自改名字，示不忘本土也。
translation: 
Lu Zhi knew that Dong Zhuo was vicious and difficult to control and would definitely cause trouble, so he firmly opposed it, but He Jin refused to listen to him.
When Dong Zhuo arrived in the capital, he indeed trampled the imperial court and ignored it. A meeting of hundreds of officials gathered in the court hall to depose the emperor and establish a new one.
No one from the officials came out to say a word, and Lu Zhi alone protested and disapproved.
Dong Zhuo became angry, dissolved the meeting, and prepared to kill Lu Zhi, as mentioned in the "Biography of Dong Zhuo".
Lu Zhi had always been friendly with Cai Yong. Cai Yong was previously exiled to Shuofang, and Lu Zhi alone wrote a letter to appeal for him.
Cai Yong was close to Dong Zhuo at this time, so he went to intercede for Lu Zhi.
He also said to Dong Zhuo, "Lu Shangshu is a great Confucian scholar in the country and is popular among the people. If we kill him first, the whole world will be shocked and frightened."
Dong Zhuocai did not kill him, but only removed Lu Zhi's official position. Lu Zhi asked to go home because he was old and sick. He was afraid that Dong Zhuo would plot against him, so he came out of the village in disguise.
Sure enough, Dong Zhuo sent people to chase him, but he couldn't catch up to him.
Lu Zhi lived in seclusion in Shanggu and did not interact with the world.
Yuan Shao, the shepherd of Jizhou, asked him to be his military advisor.
He died in the third year of Chuping.
When he was about to die, he ordered his son to bury him in a cave without a coffin, only with a single silk cloth attached to his body.
He wrote a total of six steles, edicts, tables and notes.
During the Jian'an period, Cao Cao went to the north to attack Liucheng. When he passed through Zhuo County, he told the guardian: "The late Beizhong Lang General Lu Zhi was famous all over the world. His knowledge was admired by Confucianists. He was a model for intellectuals and a pillar of the country."
Once upon a time, King Wu of Zhou Dynasty entered the Yin Dynasty and granted Shang Rong his residence. When Zheng Guozi was born, Zhongni shed tears for him.
When I come to this state, I like its lingering charm.
According to the great righteousness of "Spring and Autumn", the descendants of sages should be treated with special gifts.
Emergency officials were dispatched to clean the tomb, ask questions about his descendants, and hold memorial ceremonies to commend his virtues. Lu Zhi's son Lu Yu was also famous in his time.
The historian commented: Wind and frost can identify the nature of grass and trees, and when the country is in crisis, the integrity of the country can be revealed. Lu Gong's loyalty is obvious.
Bee stings arose in the arms, and thunder shook around the body. Even though they were brave and powerful, such as Meng Ben, Xia Yu, Jing Ke, and Zhuan Zhu, they did not hesitate to lose their normalcy.
When Lu Zhi drew his white sword under Yan Pavilion, he pursued the emperor in the Hejin area, braved the sword and went to kill him, regardless of life and death, without thinking about anything.
A gentleman's loyalty and righteousness are always consistent and unwavering, no matter in a hurry or emergency or in an extremely difficult and difficult environment.
◆The biography of Zhao Qi, whose courtesy name is Bingqing, was from Changling County, Jingzhao County.
His first name was Zhao Jia, and he was born in Yushitai, so he was given the nickname Taiqing. Later, he took refuge and changed his name to show that he would not forget his homeland.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
岐少明经，有才艺，娶扶风马融兄女。
融外戚豪家，岐常鄙之，不与融相见，仕州郡，以廉直疾恶见惮。
年三十余，有重疾，卧蓐七年，自虑奄忽，乃为遗令敕兄子曰： 大丈夫生世，遁无箕山之操，仕无伊、吕之勋，天不我与，复何言哉！
可立一员石于吾墓前，刻之曰： 汉有逸人，姓赵名嘉。
有志无时，命也奈何！
其后疾瘳。
永兴二年，辟司空掾。议二千石得去官为亲行服，朝廷从之。
其后为大将军梁冀所辟，为陈损益求贤之策，冀不纳。
举理剧，为皮氏长。
会河东太守刘祜去郡，而中常侍左悺兄胜代之，岐耻疾宦官，即日西归。
京兆尹延笃复以为功曹。
先是中常侍唐衡兄玹为京兆虎牙都尉，郡人以玹进不由德，皆轻侮之。
岐及从兄袭又数为贬议，玹深毒恨。
延熹元年，玹为京兆尹，岐惧祸及，乃与从子戩逃避之。
玹果收岐家属宗亲，陷以重法，尽杀之。
岐遂逃难四方，江、淮、海、岱，靡所不历。自匿姓名，卖饼北海市中。
时安丘孙嵩年二十余，游市见岐，察非常人，停车呼与共载。岐惧失色，嵩乃下帷，令骑屏行人。
密问岐曰： 视子非卖饼者，又相问而色动，不有重怨，即亡命乎？
我北海孙宾石，阖门百口，势能相济。 岐素闻嵩名，即以实告之，遂以俱归。
嵩先入白母曰： 出行，乃得死友。 迎入上堂，飨之极欢。
藏岐复壁中数年，岐作《厄屯歌》二十三章。
后诸唐死灭，因赦乃出。
translation: 
When Zhao Qi was young, he was a proficient in Confucian classics and had many talents. He married the daughter of Fufeng Ma Rong's brother.
Ma Rong was a relative of a wealthy family. Zhao Qi despised them and refused to meet Ma Rong. Shizhou County is feared by people for its integrity and evil.
When he was in his thirties, he fell seriously ill and was bedridden for seven years. He thought that he would not survive, so he made a will and told his brother's son: "A man is born in the world and lives in seclusion without the ethics of Xu You. Being an official does not have the merits of Yi Yin and Lu Shang. God has not granted me a long life, so what else can I say!"
You can place a round stone in front of the tomb and engrave a stele saying: There was a hermit in the Han Dynasty whose surname was Zhao Mingjia.
When there is ambition but no time, fate! No way!
Later he recovered from his illness.
In the second year of Yongxing's reign, he was conscripted as Sikong Peng. He suggested that Erqianshi should be removed from office and serve his parents, and the court accepted it.
Later, he was conquered by the general Liang Ji and suggested to Liang Ji a strategy of profit and loss to seek talents, but Liang Ji did not adopt it.
He was recommended to manage the drama and appointed as the chief of the Pi family.
It happened that Liu Lijun, the governor of Hedong, was replaced by Zuo Sheng, the elder brother of Zhongchang Shizuo. Zhao Qi hated eunuchs and thought it was shameful to work with him, so he returned to the west that day.
Jingzhao Yin Yandu once again regarded him as a meritorious officer.
At first, Tang Wangxuan, the elder brother of Tang Heng who served as a regular servant, was appointed as the captain of Huya in Jingzhao. People in the county thought that Tang Wangxuan was appointed the captain of Huya not because of his virtue, so they all despised him and insulted him.
Zhao Qi and his brother Zhao Xi belittled him many times, and Tang Wang Xuan hated him very much.
In the first year of Yanxi, Emperor Xuan of the Tang Dynasty was Zhaoyin of the capital. Zhao Qi was afraid of a disaster, so he ran away with his nephew Zhao Jian.
As expected, Wang Xuan of Tang Dynasty arrested Zhao Qi's family members, framed them for committing serious crimes, and killed them all.
Zhao Qi then fled in all directions, passing through Jiang, Huai, Hai, and Dai, hiding his name and selling cakes in Beihai City.
At this time, Anqiu Sun Song, who was more than 20 years old, saw Zhao Qi while wandering in the city. He thought he was not an ordinary person. He stopped the car and asked Zhao Qi to get in. Zhao Qi's face turned pale with fear. Sun Song then lowered the curtains on the car and ordered the driver to drive away the pedestrians.
He asked Zhao Qi quietly: "Looking at you, you are not a cake seller." He also asked Zhao Qi that your face suddenly changed. You either have a serious grudge or you are a desperado.
I, Beihai Sun Binshi, have a whole family and can help you. Zhao Qi had always heard of Sun Song's reputation, so he told Sun Song the actual situation and went to Sun's house together.
Sun Song first told his mother: When traveling, I gained a good friend. Then he welcomed Zhao Qi to the upper hall and entertained him very cordially.
He hid Zhao Qi in the compound wall for several years, and Zhao Qi wrote twenty-three chapters of "Etun Song".
Later, all the Tang clans died and the imperial court granted amnesty to Zhao Qi.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
三府闻之，同时并辟。
九年，乃应司徒胡广之命。
会南匈奴、乌桓、鲜卑反叛，公卿举岐，擢拜并州刺史。
岐欲奏守边之策，未及上，会坐党事免，因撰次以为《御寇论》。
灵帝初，复遭党锢十余岁。
中平元年，四方兵起，诏选故刺史、二千石有文武才用者，征岐拜议郎。
车骑将军张温西征关中，请补长史，别屯安定。
大将军何进举为敦煌太守，行至襄武，岐与新除诸郡太守数人俱为贼边章等所执。
贼欲胁以为帅，岐诡辞得免，展转还长安。
及献帝西都，复拜议郎，稍迁太仆。
及李傕专政，使太傅马日磾抚慰天下，以岐为副。
日磾行至洛阳，表别遣岐宣扬国命，所到郡县，百姓皆喜曰： 今日乃复见使者车骑。
是时，袁绍、曹操与公孙瓒争冀州，绍及操闻岐至，皆自将兵数百里奉迎，岐深陈天子恩德，宜罢兵安人之道，又移书公孙瓒，为言利害。
绍等各引兵去，皆与岐期会洛阳，奉迎车驾。
岐南到陈留，得笃疾，经涉二年，期者遂不至。
兴平元年，诏书征岐，会帝当还洛阳，先遣卫将军董承修理宫室。
岐谓承曰： 今海内分崩，唯有荆州境广地胜，西通巴蜀，南当交址，年谷独登，兵人差全。
岐虽迫大命，犹志报国家，欲自乘牛车，南说刘表，可使其身自将兵来卫朝廷，与将军并心同力，共奖王室。
此安上救人之策也。 承即表遣岐使荆州，督租粮。
岐至，刘表即遣兵诣洛阳助修宫室，军资委输，前后不绝。
时，孙嵩亦寓于表，表不为礼，岐乃称嵩素行笃烈，因共上为青州刺史。
岐以老病，遂留荆州。
曹操时为司空，举以自代。
光禄勋桓典、少府孔融上书荐之，于是就拜岐为太常。
translation: 
When the three mansions heard that Zhao Qi was back, they recruited him at the same time.
Nine years later, he responded to Situ Hu Guang's order.
When the Southern Xiongnu, Wuhuan, and Xianbei rebelled, Zhao Qi was promoted to the governor of Bingzhou.
Zhao Qi wanted to submit a strategy for guarding the frontier, but before he could do so, he was dismissed from office due to party affairs and wrote "On the Control of Bandits".
At the beginning of Emperor Ling's reign, he was imprisoned by the party for more than ten years.
In the first year of Zhongping, troops from all directions rose up, and the imperial edict was issued to select the former governor and those with civil and military talents among the two thousand stones. Zhao Qi was recruited and appointed as Yilang.
Chariot and Cavalry General Zhang Wen marched westward to Guanzhong, and asked Zhao Qi to be appointed as the chief official and to garrison An Ding.
General He Jin appointed Zhao Qi as the governor of Dunhuang. When they arrived at Xiangwu, Zhao Qi and several newly appointed governors of various counties were captured by the thief Bian Zhang and others.
The thief wanted to force Zhao Qi to become the commander, but Zhao Qi used deceit to avoid it and returned to Chang'an.
He presented the emperor to the Western Capital, was appointed Yilang again, and was promoted to imperial servant.
Li Chu took over the dictatorship and sent Taifu Ma Rishidan to appease and comfort the world, with Zhao Qi as his deputy.
Ma Rishi went to Luoyang alone, and did not send Zhao Qi to preach the country's orders. In the counties and counties he went to, the people said happily: "Today I saw the messenger riding on his horse."
At this time, Yuan Shao, Cao Cao and Gongsun Zan were competing for Jizhou. When Yuan Shao and Cao Cao heard that Zhao Qi had arrived, they personally led their troops hundreds of miles away to welcome him. Zhao Qi promoted the emperor's kindness and the principle of withdrawing troops to pacify the people. He also wrote to Gongsun Zan, explaining the pros and cons.
Yuan Shao and others led their troops back, and they all met Zhao Qi in Luoyang to welcome the emperor.
Zhao Qinan came to Chenliu and fell seriously ill. After two years, the date did not show up.
In the first year of Xingping, an imperial edict was issued to recruit Zhao Qi. Just as the emperor was about to return to Luoyang, he first sent General Dong Cheng to repair the palace.
Zhao Qi said to Dong Cheng: Now the country is divided into parts. Only Jingzhou has a large territory and a good local situation. It connects to Bashu in the west and ends in Jiaocheng in the south. It has a good harvest every year and the army's household registration is still intact.
Although I, Zhao Qi, am forced by Li Chu's order, I am determined to serve the country. I want to take an ox cart to the south to tell Liu Biao that he can lead troops to defend the court and work together with the general to assist the royal family.
This is a way to save the people. Dong Cheng sent Zhao Qi to Jingzhou to supervise the grain leasing.
When Zhao Qi arrived, Liu Biao sent troops to Luoyang to help repair the palace, and there was an endless stream of transportation of weapons, food and grass.
At this time, Sun Song was also a guest at Liu Biao's place, but Liu Biao did not treat him politely. Zhao Qi then told Liu Biao that Sun Song had extraordinary virtues, because they were both the governor of Qingzhou.
Zhao Qi stayed in Jingzhou because he was old and sick.
Cao Cao was now Sikong, so he appointed Zhao Qi as Sikong on his behalf.
Guang Luxun Huandian and Shaofu Kong Rong wrote to recommend Zhao Qi, so he appointed Zhao Qi as Taichang.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
年九十余，建安六年卒。
先自为寿藏，图季札、子产、晏婴、叔向四像居宾位，又自画其像居主位，皆为赞颂。
敕其子曰： 我死之日，墓中聚沙为床，布簟白衣，散发其上，覆以单被，即日便下，下讫便掩。 岐多所述作，著《孟子章句》、《三辅决录》传于时。
translation: 
He was more than ninety years old and died in the sixth year of Jian'an.
Zhao Qixian made the earthen tomb by himself, and painted four images of Jizha, Zichan, Yan Ying, and Shuxiang as guests. He also painted his own image as the main one, and wrote eulogies for them all.
He ordered his son to say: On the day I died, sand was gathered in the tomb to make a bed. White cloth was spread over it, and a sheet was covered with it. On the same day, it was buried. Zhao Qi wrote many narratives, including "Mencius Chapters" and "Sanfu Juelu", which have been passed down to the world.


