Summary line 0
Span: 54-99 (score=0.5066)

original:
吴王濞，高帝兄仲之子也。
高帝立仲为代王。
匈奴攻代，仲不能坚守，弃国间行，走雒阳，自归，天子不忍致法，废为合阳侯。
子濞，封为沛侯。
黥布反，高祖自将往诛之。
濞年二十，以骑将从破布军。
荆王刘贾为布所杀，无后。
上患吴会稽轻悍，无壮王填之，诸子少，乃立濞于沛，为吴王，王三郡五十三城。
已拜受印，高祖召濞相之，曰： 若状有反相。
独悔，业已拜，因拊其背曰： 汉后五十年东南有乱，岂若邪？
然天下同姓一家，慎无反！
濞顿首曰： 不敢。
会孝惠、高后时天下初定，郡国诸侯各务自拊循其民。
吴有豫章郡铜山，即招致天下亡命者盗铸钱，东煮海水为盐，以故无赋，国用饶足。
孝文时，吴太子入见，得侍皇太子饮博。
吴太子师傅皆楚人，轻悍，又素骄。
博争道，不恭，皇太子引博局提吴太子，杀之。于是遣其丧归葬吴。
吴王愠曰： 天下一宗，死长安即葬长安，何必来葬！
复遣丧之长安葬。
吴王由是怨望，稍失藩臣礼，称疾不朝。
京师知其以子故，验问实不病，诸吴使来，辄系责治之。
吴王恐，所谋滋甚。
及后使人为秋请，上复责问吴使者。
使者曰： 察见渊中鱼，不祥。
今吴王始诈疾，及觉，见责急，愈益闭，恐上诛之，计乃无聊。
唯上与更始。
于是天子皆赦吴使者归之，而赐吴王几杖，老，不朝。
吴得释，其谋亦益解。
然其居国以铜盐故，百姓无赋。
卒践更，辄予平贾。
岁时存问茂材，赏赐闾里，它郡国吏欲来捕亡人者，颂共禁不与。
如此者三十余年，以故能使其众。
朝错为太子家令，得幸皇太子，数从容言吴过可削。
数上书说之，文帝宽，不忍罚，以此吴王日益横。
及景帝即位，错为御史大夫，说上曰： 昔高帝初定天下，昆弟少，诸子弱，大封同姓，故孽子悼惠王王齐七十二城，庶弟元王王楚四十城，兄子王吴五十余城。
封三庶孽，分天下半。
今吴王前有太子之隙，诈称病不朝，于古法当诛。
文帝不忍，因赐几杖，德至厚也。
不改过自新，乃益骄恣，公即山铸钱，煮海为盐，诱天下亡人谋作乱逆。
今削之亦反，不削亦反。
削之，其反亟，祸小；不削之，其反迟，祸大。
三年冬，楚王来朝，错因言楚王戊往年为薄太后服，私奸服舍，请诛之。
诏赦，削东海郡。
及前二年，赵王有罪，削其常山郡。
胶西王卬以卖爵事有奸，削其六县。
汉廷臣方议削吴，吴王恐削地无已，因欲发谋举事。

translation:
King Wu Liu Bi was the son of Liu Zhong, brother of Emperor Gao.
Emperor Gao made Liu Zhong the acting king.
When the Xiongnu attacked Dai, Liu Zhong could not hold on, so he secretly abandoned the country and fled, returning to the capital Chang'an from Luoyang. The emperor could not bear to bring him to justice, so he deposed him from the throne and demoted him to the rank of Marquis of Heyang.
His son Liu Bi was granted the title of Marquis of Pei.
King Yingbu of Huainan rebelled, and Emperor Gaozu personally led troops to attack him.
At this time, Liu Bi was twenty years old and followed Gaozu as a cavalry general to defeat Yingbu.
After King Liu Mai of Jing was killed by Ting Bu, he had no descendants.
Emperor Gaozu was worried that the people of Wu County and Kuaiji County were frivolous and fierce, and there were no powerful princes to control them. His son was still young, so he appointed Liu Bi as King of Wu in Pei, with jurisdiction over three counties and fifty-three cities.
After receiving the seal, Emperor Gaozu summoned him and gave him a face, saying: You have the appearance of rebellion.
I regretted that I should not have sealed him, but I could not take back my life, so I patted Liu Bi on the back and said: Fifty years after the founding of the Han Dynasty, there will be a rebellion in the southeast. Could it be you?
However, everyone with the same surname is one family, so don’t rebel!
Liu Bi kowtowed and said, "I don't dare."
During the reign of Emperor Hui and Empress Lu, due to the initial order of the world, all the princes in the prefectures and states were devoted to the rule of their own countries.
There was a copper-producing mountain in Yuzhang County of the State of Wu, which led to desperadoes from all over to steal coins and boil seawater in the southeast to make salt. Therefore, no taxes were collected from the people, and the country's finances were very rich.
During the reign of Emperor Wen, Prince Wu went to the capital for an audience and was able to accompany the crown prince to drink and play chess.
Prince Wu's masters were all from Chu, so he was as frivolous, fierce, arrogant and wanton as the Chu people.
When they were playing chess, they were competing for moves and were disrespectful to the crown prince. The crown prince raised the chessboard and threw it at Prince Wu, killing him and sending his body back to the state of Wu for burial.
King Wu said angrily: "Everyone with the same surname in the world is one family. If you die in Chang'an, you will be buried in Chang'an. Why should you be buried in Wu!"
He also sent Prince Wu's body back to Chang'an for burial.
As a result, the King of Wu became dissatisfied and gradually lost the etiquette of the princes towards the Han court. He pretended to be ill and refused to see the emperor.
The imperial court knew that it was because his son was killed, and after examination, he was actually not sick. Therefore, every time Wu sent envoys to him, he was always arrested and punished.
King Wu was afraid and even more determined to rebel against the court.
Later, Liu Bi asked someone to pay his respects to the emperor on his behalf, and Emperor Wen again questioned the envoy from Wu.
The messenger said: It would be unlucky for the emperor to find out about the private affairs of his ministers and cause them to worry and change.
Now the king of Wu began to lie about being ill, and the emperor noticed it. Seeing that he was punished quickly, he hid his conspiracy even more.
He was afraid that the emperor would kill him, and his plan would be of no benefit to the court.
It would be best if the emperor pardoned his past crimes. Therefore, the emperor pardoned all the Wu envoys and released them back to Wu. He also rewarded King Wu with Pingji and a walking stick, saying that King Wu was old and could not visit the emperor in the capital.
After King Wu was acquitted, his conspiracy became even more unscrupulous.
However, the state of Wu had profits from copper and salt, so the people did not have to pay taxes; if there were those who had to do hard labor, the government would also pay for them.
Every New Year's Day, we should visit the talented and learned people and give rewards to the residents of the village.
Officials from other counties were sent to the state of Wu to arrest criminals who had fled to Wu. The state of Wu also acquitted them of their crimes and strictly prohibited them.
It was governed like this for more than thirty years, and the king of Wu was able to serve his people.
Shi Chaocuo was the prince's family order and gained the prince's favor. He talked about King Wu's sins more than once and advocated cutting off his land and punishing him.
He also wrote to Emperor Wen several times about this matter. Emperor Wen was kind-hearted and could not bear to punish him, so King Wu became more and more arrogant.
Later, when Emperor Jing came to the throne, Chao Cuo was appointed as the imperial censor. He told the emperor: Once upon a time, when the great ancestor first established the world, he had few brothers and his sons were young, so he made the same surnames the princes and kings. Therefore, Liu Fei, the concubine of Emperor Gaozu, was the King of Qi Huihui, and had jurisdiction over seventy-two cities; Liu Jiao, the concubine, was the King of Chu Yuan, and was in charge of forty cities in Chu; and his elder brother's son Liu Bi was the King of Wu, and was in charge of more than fifty cities in Wu.
These three vassal states occupy half of the country's land.
Now because his son was killed, the King of Wu lied about being ill and did not come to court. According to ancient laws, he should be executed.
Emperor Wen couldn't bear to execute King Wu, but instead rewarded him with a pen and a cane. His kindness to him was so profound.
However, instead of reforming his ways, the King of Wu became even more arrogant and indulgent. He openly minted money on the mountains and boiled seawater into salt, luring people fleeing from all directions to plot rebellion.
If his territory is reduced, he will rebel, and if it is not reduced, he will rebel.
If it is reduced, he will rebel faster and cause less harm; if his territory is not reduced, he will rebel later and cause greater harm.
In the winter of the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, the King of Chu came to see the emperor. Chao Cuo said that King Chu Liu Wu had committed adultery in the mourning room during the mourning period for Empress Dowager Bo a few years ago, and he should be punished with death.
The emperor issued an edict to pardon his capital crime and only reduced his territory of Shuhai County.
Two years ago, King Zhao was guilty and cut off his territory of Changshan County.
Liu Yin, the king of Jiaoxi, committed a crime by selling his official title and was deprived of six counties.
When the ministers of the Han Dynasty discussed reducing the territory of Wu State, the King of Wu was worried that the land reduction would be endless, so he wanted to rebel according to the predetermined plan.

summary:
The histories of three Han dynasty princes: Liu Jia (King of Jing), Liu Ze (King of Yan), and Liu Bi (King of Wu). Liu Jia, a cousin of Emperor Gaozu, served as a general, leading campaigns against Chu forces, burning supplies, and later capturing Jiujiang. He was made King of Jing but was killed in battle against the rebel Yingbu. Liu Ze, a brother of Gaozu, was initially a marquis. Through a scheme by Tian Sheng, he was made King of Langye after persuading Empress Lu to enfeoff the Lü clan. After Empress Lu’s death, he joined others in supporting Emperor Xiaowen and was renamed King of Yan. His descendants included a son, Kang Wang, and a grandson, Dingguo, who committed adultery with his father’s concubine and sisters, leading to his suicide and the abolition of his state. Liu Bi, son of Liu Zhong, was made King of Wu after defeating Yingbu. He grew wealthy from copper and salt, and after his son was killed by the crown prince, he feigned illness and plotted rebellion. During Emperor Jing’s reign, Chao Cuo advocated reducing the princes’ territories, prompting Liu Bi to lead a rebellion of seven states (Wu, Chu, Zhao, Jiaoxi, Jiaodong, Jinan, and Zichuan) in 154 BCE. Liu Bi issued a call to arms, offering rewards for killing Han officials. Emperor Jing executed Chao Cuo to appease the rebels, but the rebellion continued. Zhou Yafu, a Han general, cut off Wu’s supply lines and defeated them. Liu Bi fled to Dongyue, where he was killed. The other rebel princes were also defeated or committed suicide. The text concludes that Liu Jia’s kingship was due to the unstable times, Liu Ze’s was based on a risky scheme, and Liu Bi’s rebellion stemmed from his wealth and personal grievance, leading to disaster.

================================================================================

