Chunk 0: 
original: 
樗里子者，名疾，秦惠王之弟也，与惠王异母。
母，韩女也。
樗里子滑稽多智，秦人号曰 智囊 。
秦惠王八年，爵樗里子右更，使将而伐曲沃，尽出其人，取其城，地入秦。
秦惠王二十五年，使樗里子为将伐赵，虏赵将军庄豹，拔蔺。
明年，助魏章攻楚，败楚将屈丐，取汉中地。
秦封樗里子，号为严君。
秦惠王卒，太子武王立，逐张仪、魏章，而以樗里子、甘茂为左右丞相。
秦使甘茂攻韩，拔宜阳。使樗里子以车百乘入周。
周以卒迎之，意甚敬。
楚王怒，让周，以其重秦客。
游腾为周说楚王曰： 知伯之伐仇犹，遗之广车，因随之以兵，仇犹遂亡。
何则？
无备故也。
齐桓公伐蔡，号曰诛楚，其实袭蔡。
今秦，虎狼之国，使樗里子以车百乘入周，周以仇犹、蔡观焉，故使长戟居前，彊弩在後，名曰卫疾，而实囚之。
且夫周岂能无忧其社稷哉？
恐一旦亡国以忧大王。
楚王乃悦。
秦武王卒，昭王立，樗里子又益尊重。
昭王元年，樗里子将伐蒲。
蒲守恐，请胡衍。
胡衍为蒲谓樗里子曰： 公之攻蒲，为秦乎？为魏乎？
为魏则善矣，为秦则不为赖矣。
夫卫之所以为卫者，以蒲也。
今伐蒲入於魏，卫必折而从之。
魏亡西河之外而无以取者，兵弱也。
今并卫於魏，魏必彊。
魏彊之日，西河之外必危矣。
且秦王将观公之事，害秦而利魏，王必罪公。
translation: 
Chuilizi, named Ji, was the younger brother of King Hui of Qin. He and King Hui were not born to the same mother.
His mother is a Korean woman.
Chuilizi was eloquent and resourceful in dealing with people, so the people of Qin called him "the wise man".
In the eighth year of King Hui of Qin, Chuilizi was granted the title of Yougeng. The King of Qin sent him to lead an army to attack Quwo in the State of Wei. He drove away all the people there and occupied the city. The land around Quwo was annexed to the State of Qin.
In the twenty-fifth year of King Hui of Qin, the King of Qin appointed Chuilizi as a general to attack the State of Zhao. He captured General Zhuang Bao of the State of Zhao and captured Linyi.
The next year, he assisted Wei Zhang in attacking Chu, defeated Chu general Qu Gai, and captured the Hanzhong area.
The King of Qin granted him the title Chuilizi, with the title Yan Jun.
After the death of King Hui of Qin, Prince Wu came to the throne, expelled Zhang Yi and Wei Zhang, and appointed Chuilizi and Gan Mao as the left and right prime ministers.
The King of Qin sent Gan Mao to attack South Korea and captured Yiyang in one fell swoop. At the same time, he sent Chuilizi to lead a hundred chariots to the Zhou Dynasty capital.
The king of Zhou sent soldiers to line up to greet him with a very respectful attitude.
When the King of Chu learned about it, he was furious and scolded the King of Zhou because the King of Zhou should not be so respectful to Qin's uninvited guests.
In this regard, You Teng persuaded the King of Chu on behalf of the King of Zhou: When Zhibo attacked Qiu You before, he used the method of giving away carts to take the opportunity to let the army follow behind, but Qiu You was destroyed.
Why?
It’s just because I’m unprepared.
When Duke Huan of Qi attacked Cai, he claimed that he was punishing Chu, but in fact he was attacking Cai secretly.
Now the Qin State is a country as fierce as a tiger and a wolf. He sent Chuilizi into the Zhou capital with hundreds of chariots, with ulterior motives. The King of Zhou viewed this matter based on the lessons of Qiu You and Cai Guo, so he sent soldiers with halberds in front and sergeants with strong bows in the back. On the surface, they were guarding Chuilizi, but in fact they were keeping him under guard to prevent any unexpected events.
Besides, how could the King of Zhou not worry about the Zhou Dynasty?
I'm afraid that once subjugated, it will bring trouble to you, Your Majesty.
King Chu became happy after hearing this.
After King Wu of Qin died and King Zhao came to the throne, Chuilizi was even more respected.
In the first year of King Zhao, Chuilizi led his troops to attack Pucheng in Weiguo.
The chief of Pucheng was very frightened and asked Hu Yan for advice.
Hu Yan stepped forward and said to Chuilizi on behalf of the chief of Pucheng: Are you attacking Pucheng for the sake of Qin or Wei?
If it is for Wei, then of course it is good; if it is for Qin, it is not advantageous.
The reason why Weiguo became Weiguo was because of the existence of Pucheng.
Now if you attack it and force it to be included in the territory of Wei State, the entire Wei State will surrender and attach itself to Wei State.
Wei lost the cities outside Xihe but was unable to regain them because its military strength was too weak.
Now the attack on Pucheng will merge the Wei State into the Wei State, and the Wei State will definitely become stronger.
When Wei is strong, the cities occupied by your country are in danger.
Moreover, the King of Qin wants to observe your actions. If it harms the State of Qin and benefits the State of Wei, the King of Qin will definitely punish you.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
樗里子曰： 柰何？
胡衍曰： 公释蒲勿攻，臣试为公入言之，以德卫君。 樗里子曰： 善。
胡衍入蒲，谓其守曰： 樗里子知蒲之病矣，其言曰必拔蒲。
衍能令释蒲勿攻。
蒲守恐，因再拜曰： 原以请。
因效金三百斤，曰： 秦兵苟退，请必言子於卫君，使子为南面。
故胡衍受金於蒲以自贵於卫。
於是遂解蒲而去。还击皮氏，皮氏未降，又去。
昭王七年，樗里子卒，葬于渭南章台之东。
曰： 後百岁，是当有天子之宫夹我墓。
樗里子疾室在於昭王庙西渭南阴乡樗里，故俗谓之樗里子。
至汉兴，长乐宫在其东，未央宫在其西，武库正直其墓。
秦人谚曰： 力则任鄙，智则樗里。
甘茂者，下蔡人也。
事下蔡史举先生，学百家之术。
因张仪、樗里子而求见秦惠王。
王见而说之，使将，而佐魏章略定汉中地。
惠王卒，武王立。
张仪、魏章去，东之魏。
蜀侯煇、相壮反，秦使甘茂定蜀。
还，而以甘茂为左丞相，以樗里子为右丞相。
秦武王三年，谓甘茂曰： 寡人欲容车通三川，以窥周室，而寡人死不朽矣。
甘茂曰： 请之魏，约以伐韩，而令向寿辅行。
甘茂至，谓向寿曰： 子归，言之於王曰 魏听臣矣，然原王勿伐 。
事成，尽以为子功。
向寿归，以告王，王迎甘茂於息壤。
甘茂至，王问其故。
对曰： 宜阳，大县也，上党、南阳积之久矣。
名曰县，其实郡也。
translation: 
After hearing these words, Qilizi said thoughtfully: What should we do?
Hu Yan took advantage of the situation and said: "You give up Pucheng and don't attack. I will try to go to Pucheng for you to tell you this, so that the king of Wei will not forget the kindness you have given him." Qilizi said: Okay.
After Hu Yan entered Pucheng, he said to the officer: Chuilizi has grasped Pucheng's difficult situation, and he promised to capture Pucheng.
However, I, Hu Yan, can make him abandon Pucheng and stop attacking.
Chief Pucheng was very frightened. After hearing Hu Yan's words, he felt as if he had seen a savior. He worshiped again and again and said, "Please help me."
So he offered three hundred catties of gold and said: The Qin army has really retreated. Please allow me to report your achievements to the king of Wei, so that you can enjoy the same treatment as a king.
Therefore, Hu Yan received a large sum of money from Pucheng and became a prominent figure in Weiguo.
At this time, Chuilizi had relieved the siege and evacuated Pucheng, and returned to attack Pishi, the city of Wei State. Pishi did not surrender, so he withdrew again.
In the seventh year of King Zhao, Chuilizi died and was buried east of Zhangtai, south of the Wei River.
Before his death, he prophesied: A hundred years from now, there will be the emperor's palace sandwiching my tomb here.
Chuilizi Yingji's home is in Chuili, Yinxiang, south of the Wei River, west of Zhaowang Temple, so people commonly call him Chuilizi.
With the rise of the Han Dynasty, the Changle Palace was built to the east of his tomb, while the Weiyang Palace was to the west of his tomb, and the arsenal was directly opposite his tomb, just as it was said.
There is a proverb from the Qin people: If you are strong, you should be considered Renbi, and if you are resourceful, you should be considered Qili.
Gan Mao was from Xiacai.
Mr. Shi Ju, who once served Xia Cai, learned from him the theories of various schools of thought.
Later, he got the opportunity to meet King Qin Hui through the introduction of Zhang Yi and Chuilizi.
After King Hui met him, he liked him very much and sent him to lead troops to help Wei Zhang seize the Hanzhong area.
After King Hui died, King Wu came to the throne.
At that time, Zhang Yi and Wei Zhang had left the State of Qin and ran to the State of Wei in the east.
Soon, Qin Gongzi Shuhou Hui and his assistant Chen Zhuang rebelled, and King Wu assigned Gan Mao to pacify Shu.
After returning to Qin, King Wu appointed Gan Mao as the prime minister of the left and Chulizi as the prime minister of the right.
In the third year of King Wu of Qin, King Wu said to Gan Mao: I have a wish to ride in a carriage with hanging curtains, pass through the land of Sanchuan, and see the capital of the Zhou Dynasty. Even if I die, I will be considered satisfied.
Gan Mao understood this and said, "Please allow me to go as envoy to the Wei State and make an appointment with the Wei State to attack South Korea. Please allow Xiang Shou to assist me in going together."
King Wu agreed to Gan Mao's request. After Gan Mao arrived in Wei, he said to Xiang Shou: Go back and report the situation to King Wu. Wei has listened to my advice, but I hope the king will not attack South Korea first.
Once the work is done, it will be all your credit.
Xiang Shou returned to Qin and reported Gan Mao's words to King Wu. King Wu went to Xirang to greet Gan Mao.
Gan Mao arrived at Xirang, and King Wu asked him why he didn't attack South Korea first.
Gan Mao replied: Yiyang is a large county. Shangdang and Nanyang have accumulated wealth for a long time.
The name is county, but it is actually a county.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
今王倍数险，行千里攻之，难。
昔曾参之处费，鲁人有与曾参同姓名者杀人，人告其母曰 曾参杀人 ，其母织自若也。
顷之，一人又告之曰 曾参杀人 ，其母尚织自若也。
顷又一人告之曰 曾参杀人 ，其母投杼下机，逾墙而走。
夫以曾参之贤与其母信之也，三人疑之，其母惧焉。
今臣之贤不若曾参，王之信臣又不如曾参之母信著参也，疑臣者非特三人，臣恐大王之投杼也。
始张仪西并巴蜀之地，北开西河之外，南取上庸，天下不以多张子而以贤先王。
魏文侯令乐羊将而攻中山，三年而拔之。
乐羊返而论功，文侯示之谤书一箧。
乐羊再拜稽首曰： 此非臣之功也，主君之力也。
今臣，羁旅之臣也。
樗里子、公孙奭二人者挟韩而议之，王必听之，是王欺魏王而臣受公仲侈之怨也。
王曰： 寡人不听也，请与子盟。
卒使丞相甘茂将兵伐宜阳。
五月而不拔，樗里子、公孙奭果争之。
武王召甘茂，欲罢兵。
甘茂曰： 息壤在彼。 王曰： 有之。
因大悉起兵，使甘茂击之。斩首六万，遂拔宜阳。
韩襄王使公仲侈入谢，与秦平。
武王竟至周，而卒於周。
其弟立，为昭王。
王母宣太后，楚女也。
楚怀王怨前秦败楚於丹阳而韩不救，乃以兵围韩雍氏。
韩使公仲侈告急於秦。
秦昭王新立，太后楚人，不肯救。
公仲因甘茂，茂为韩言於秦昭王曰： 公仲方有得秦救，故敢扞楚也。
translation: 
Now the king has left several dangerous passes where he has strongholds and traveled thousands of miles to attack them. It is very difficult to win.
Once upon a time, Zeng Shen lived in Feiyi. In the state of Lu, a man with the same surname as Zeng Shen killed someone. Someone told Zeng Shen's mother that Zeng Shen had killed someone. His mother was weaving cloth with a calm expression.
After a while, a man came again and told his mother that Zeng Shen had killed someone. His mother was still weaving and her expression remained unchanged.
After a while, another person told his mother that Zeng Shen had killed someone. His mother dropped the shuttle, got off the loom, climbed over the wall and ran away.
Based on Zeng Shen's virtue and his mother's deep faith in him, three people doubted him, and his mother was really afraid that he would kill someone.
Now I am not as talented as Zeng Shen, and your Majesty does not trust me as much as Zeng Shen's mother trusted Zeng Shen. However, it is not just three people who doubt me. I am afraid that your Majesty will also doubt me like Zeng Shen's mother did.
At the beginning, Zhang Yi annexed the land of Bashu in the west, expanded the territory beyond the Xihe River in the north, and captured Shangyong in the south. People in the world did not praise Zhang Yi for this, but thought that the king was worthy.
Marquis Wen of Wei asked Le Yang to lead troops to attack Zhongshan Kingdom. It took three years of fighting to capture Zhongshan.
Le Yang returned to Wei State to discuss his merits and ask for rewards, but Wei Wenhou showed him a box of denunciation letters.
Leyang was so frightened that he knelt down and worshiped twice and said: This is not my fault, it all depends on the power of the Lord.
Now I am a minister who lives here.
Chuilizi and Gongsun Dashu will argue with me about the pros and cons of attacking Korea on the grounds that Korea is strong. The king will definitely listen to their opinions. This will result in the king deceiving the king of Wei and I will be resented by Han Xianggong Zhongchi.
King Wu said: I will not listen to them. Please let me swear an oath to you.
Finally, Prime Minister Gan Mao was allowed to lead troops to attack Yiyang.
After fighting for five months, Yiyang still could not be captured. As expected, Chuilizi and Gongsun Shi raised objections.
King Wu summoned Gan Mao back to his country, intending to withdraw his troops and stop attacking.
Gan Mao said: The soil is there, don't forget it. King Wu said: We made an oath.
So he mobilized all his troops and asked Gan Mao to attack Yiyang, killing 60,000 enemies, and finally captured Yiyang.
King Xiang of Han sent Gong Zhongchi to Qin to apologize and make peace with Qin.
King Wu finally passed through the land of Sanchuan and reached the capital of Zhou, where he died.
King Wu's younger brother came to the throne and became King Zhao.
King Zhao's mother, Queen Mother Xuan, was a woman from Chu.
King Huai of Chu resented that when Qin defeated Chu in Danyang, South Korea sat idly by and did nothing to save him, so he led troops to besiege the Yong family of South Korea.
The king of Han sent Gong Zhongchi to Qin to ask for help.
King Zhao of Qin had just ascended the throne, and the Queen Mother was from Chu, so she refused to send troops to rescue.
Gong Zhongchi went to entrust Gan Mao, and Gan Mao advised King Zhao of Qin on behalf of South Korea: Gong Zhongchi dared to resist Chu because he was eager to be rescued by Qin.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
今雍氏围，秦师不下殽，公仲且仰首而不朝，公叔且以国南合於楚。
楚、韩为一，魏氏不敢不听，然则伐秦之形成矣。
不识坐而待伐孰与伐人之利？ 秦王曰： 善。
乃下师於殽以救韩。
楚兵去。
秦使向寿平宜阳，而使樗里子、甘茂伐魏皮氏。
向寿者，宣太后外族也，而与昭王少相长，故任用。
向寿如楚，楚闻秦之贵向寿，而厚事向寿。
向寿为秦守宜阳，将以伐韩。
韩公仲使苏代谓向寿曰： 禽困覆车。
公破韩，辱公仲，公仲收国复事秦，自以为必可以封。
今公与楚解口地，封小令尹以杜阳。
秦楚合，复攻韩，韩必亡。
韩亡，公仲且躬率其私徒以阏於秦。
原公孰虑之也。
向寿曰： 吾合秦楚非以当韩也，子为寿谒之公仲，曰秦韩之交可合也。
苏代对曰： 原有谒於公。
人曰贵其所以贵者贵。
王之爱习公也，不如公孙奭；其智能公也，不如甘茂。
今二人者皆不得亲於秦事，而公独与王主断於国者何？
彼有以失之也。
公孙奭党於韩，而甘茂党於魏，故王不信也。
今秦楚争彊而公党於楚，是与公孙奭、甘茂同道也，公何以异之？
人皆言楚之善变也，而公必亡之，是自为责也。
公不如与王谋其变也，善韩以备楚，如此则无患矣。
韩氏必先以国从公孙奭而後委国於甘茂。
韩，公之雠也。
今公言善韩以备楚，是外举不僻雠也。
向寿曰： 然，吾甚欲韩合。
对曰： 甘茂许公仲以武遂，反宜阳之民，今公徒收之，甚难。
translation: 
Now that the Yong family is under siege, and the Qin army refuses to go out to Mt. Miao to rescue them, Gong Zhongchi will look down upon Qin and not come to court.
Uncle Han will also ask South Korea to move south to unite with Chu. Once Chu and South Korea unite, Wei will not dare to disobey it. In this way, the situation of attacking Qin will be formed.
What do you think is more advantageous than waiting for others to attack versus taking the initiative to attack others? King Zhao of Qin said: OK.
So the army was sent down Miao Mountain to rescue South Korea.
The Chu army immediately withdrew.
The King of Qin asked Xiang Shou to pacify Yiyang, and at the same time sent Chuilizi and Ganmao to attack the Pi family of Wei.
Xiang Shou was a relative of Empress Dowager Xuan. She had been close to King Zhao since they were young, so she was appointed by King Zhao.
Xiang Shou arrived in Chu State first. The King of Chu heard that King Qin respected Xiang Shou very much, so he treated Xiang Shou generously.
Xiang Shou garrisoned Yiyang for Qin, preparing to attack South Korea accordingly.
Han Xianggong Zhongchi sent Su Dai to say to Xiang Shou: A wild beast can knock over a hunter's car if it is in a hurry.
Although you conquered South Korea and humiliated Gong Zhongchi, Gong Zhongchi could still clean up the situation in South Korea and then serve Qin. He would think that he would definitely get a grant from Qin.
Now you give Jie Kou to the State of Chu, and give Du Yang to Xia Xiaoling Yin, so that Qin and Chu can have good relations.
The alliance between Qin and Chu is nothing more than attacking South Korea again, and South Korea will definitely perish.
If South Korea is to perish, Gong Zhongchi will personally lead his private disciples to resist Qin tenaciously.
I hope you've given this a lot of thought.
Xiang Shou said: I unite Qin and Chu not to deal with South Korea. Please explain this to Gong Zhongchi for me, saying that the relationship between Qin and South Korea can be cooperative.
Su Dai replied: I would like to tell you something further.
People say that only by respecting what others respect can you win the respect of others.
The King of Qin is not as close to you as he is to Gongsun Xi; the King of Qin does not appreciate your wisdom and talent as much as he appreciates Gan Mao.
But now these two people cannot directly participate in the major affairs of the Qin State, but you can only make decisions on the major affairs of the Qin State with the King of Qin. What is the reason for this?
They each have their own places where they lose trust.
Gongsun Shi favored South Korea, while Gan Mao favored Wei, so the King of Qin did not trust them.
Now the state of Qin is competing with the state of Chu, but you favor the state of Chu. This is the same path as Gongsun Shi and Gan Mao.
How do you differentiate yourself from them? People say that the Chu State is a country that is good at adapting to changes. You will definitely have trouble making friends with the Chu State, and you will be asking for trouble.
You might as well plan a contingency strategy with the King of Qin to deal with Chu's changes, be friendly with South Korea and guard against Chu, so that there will be no worries.
If South Korea forms a good relationship with Qin, it must first hand over state affairs to Gongsun Shi and obey his opinions, and then entrust the country to Gan Mao.
South Korea is your enemy.
Now you propose to be friendly with South Korea and guard against Chu. This is a diplomatic alliance without avoiding enemies.
Xiang Shou said: That's right, I really want to cooperate with South Korea.
Su Dai replied: Gan Mao once promised Gong Zhongchi to return Wu Sui to South Korea and let the people of Yiyang return to Yiyang. Now you are only thinking about taking back Wu Sui, which is difficult to do.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
向寿曰： 然则奈何？
武遂终不可得也？
对曰： 公奚不以秦为韩求颍川於楚？
此韩之寄地也。公求而得之，是令行於楚而以其地德韩也。
公求而不得，是韩楚之怨不解而交走秦也。
秦楚争彊，而公徐过楚以收韩，此利於秦。
向寿曰： 柰何？
对曰： 此善事也。
甘茂欲以魏取齐，公孙奭欲以韩取齐。
今公取宜阳以为功，收楚韩以安之，而诛齐魏之罪，是以公孙奭、甘茂无事也。
甘茂竟言秦昭王，以武遂复归之韩。
向寿、公孙奭争之，不能得。
向寿、公孙奭由此怨，谗甘茂。
茂惧，辍伐魏蒲阪，亡去。
樗里子与魏讲，罢兵。
甘茂之亡秦奔齐，逢苏代。
代为齐使於秦。
甘茂曰： 臣得罪於秦，惧而遯逃，无所容迹。
臣闻贫人女与富人女会绩，贫人女曰： 我无以买烛，而子之烛光幸有馀，子可分我馀光，无损子明而得一斯便焉。
今臣困而君方使秦而当路矣。
茂之妻子在焉，原君以馀光振之。
苏代许诺。遂致使於秦。
已，因说秦王曰： 甘茂，非常士也。
其居於秦，累世重矣。自殽塞及至鬼谷，其地形险易皆明知之。
彼以齐约韩魏反以图秦，非秦之利也。
秦王曰： 然则柰何？
苏代曰： 王不若重其贽，厚其禄以迎之，使彼来则置之鬼谷，终身勿出。 秦王曰： 善。
即赐之上卿，以相印迎之於齐。
甘茂不往。
苏代谓齐湣王曰： 夫甘茂，贤人也。
今秦赐之上卿，以相印迎之。
translation: 
Xiang Shou said: In this case, what should we do?
Will Wu Sui not be able to get it after all?
Su Dai replied: Why don't you take advantage of the prestige of Qin and ask Chu for Yingchuan for South Korea?
Yingchuan is the place of sustenance of South Korea. If you ask for it and get it, it will mean that your decree is implemented in Chu State and you will take Chu State's territory to make South Korea grateful to you.
If you ask for it but don't get it, then the hatred between South Korea and Chu cannot be resolved and they will end up fawning over Qin.
Qin and Chu are competing for power, and you blame the Chu State little by little to make Han gradually move closer to you, which greatly benefits the Qin State.
After Xiang Shou heard this, he weighed the pros and cons and couldn't make up his mind for a moment, so he said casually: What should we do?
Su Dai immediately replied: This is a good thing.
Gan Mao wanted to use the power of Wei to attack Qi, and Gongsun Xi planned to use South Korea's power to attack Qi.
Now that you have captured Yiyang as a credit, you have gained the trust of Chu and South Korea and stabilized them, and then punished Qi and Wei for their crimes. Because of this, the plans of Gongsun Xi and Gan Mao will be in vain, and their power in Qin will be further weakened.
Gan Mao finally proposed to King Qin Zhao to return Wu Sui to South Korea.
Xiang Shou and Gongsun Shi tried their best to oppose this, but failed.
Xiang Shou and Gongsun Xi were resentful because of this and often spoke ill of Gan Mao in front of King Zhao.
Gan Mao was frightened and feared that something might happen, so he stopped attacking Puban of Wei State and took the opportunity to escape.
Chuilizi reconciled with Wei and withdrew his troops.
Gan Mao escaped from Qin and ran to Qi. He happened to meet Su Dai on the way.
At that time, Su Dai was on an envoy to Qin on behalf of Qi.
Gan Mao said: I was convicted in the Qin State and fled out of fear of disaster. Now I have no place to stay.
I heard that a girl from a poor family and a girl from a rich family were twisting twine together. The poor girl said: I don't have money to buy candles, but fortunately you have a surplus of candlelight. Please give me some of the remaining light. This will not damage your lighting, but it will enable me to enjoy the convenience of candlelight as you do.
Now I am in a difficult situation, and you are on a mission to the state of Qin, with great power in your hands.
My wife and children are still in Qin. I hope you can use your spare time to help them.
Su Dai agreed and sent an envoy to Qin.
After completing the task, Su Dai took the opportunity to persuade King Qin: "Gan Mao is an extraordinary scholar."
He has lived in the Qin State for many years and has been used in important positions for three consecutive generations. He knows all the terrain from Zhuoxi to Guigu, whether it is dangerous or flat.
If he relied on Qi to form an alliance with South Korea and Wei, and in turn plotted against Qin, it would not be beneficial to Qin.
King Qin said: If this is the case, what should we do?
Su Dai said: Your Majesty, why not give him a more valuable gift, give him a more generous salary, and welcome him back. If he comes back, he will be placed in the Ghost Valley and will not be allowed to come out for life. King Qin said: OK.
Immediately, Gan Mao was given the official position of Shangqing, and someone was sent to Qi State with Xiangyin to greet him.
Gan Mao insisted not to return to Qin.
Su Dai said to King Qi Min: That Gan Mao is a wise man.
Now the State of Qin has given Shangqing the official position and brought him the seal to welcome him.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
甘茂德王之赐，好为王臣，故辞而不往。
今王何以礼之？ 齐王曰： 善。
即位之上卿而处之。
秦因复甘茂之家以市於齐。
齐使甘茂於楚，楚怀王新与秦合婚而驩。
而秦闻甘茂在楚，使人谓楚王曰： 原送甘茂於秦。
楚王问於范蜎曰： 寡人欲置相於秦，孰可？
对曰： 臣不足以识之。
楚王曰： 寡人欲相甘茂，可乎？
对曰： 不可。
夫史举，下蔡之监门也，大不为事君，小不为家室，以苟贱不廉闻於世，甘茂事之顺焉。
故惠王之明，武王之察，张仪之辩，而甘茂事之，取十官而无罪。
茂诚贤者也，然不可相於秦。
夫秦之有贤相，非楚国之利也，且王前尝用召滑於越，而内行章义之难，越国乱，故楚南塞厉门而郡江东。
计王之功所以能如此者，越国乱而楚治也。
今王知用诸越而忘用诸秦，臣以王为钜过矣。
然则王若欲置相於秦，则莫若向寿者可。
夫向寿之於秦王，亲也，少与之同衣，长与之同车，以听事。
王必相向寿於秦，则楚国之利也。
於是使使请秦相向寿於秦。
秦卒相向寿。
而甘茂竟不得复入秦，卒於魏。
甘茂有孙曰甘罗。
甘罗者，甘茂孙也。
茂既死後，甘罗年十二，事秦相文信侯吕不韦。
秦始皇帝使刚成君蔡泽於燕，三年而燕王喜使太子丹入质於秦。
秦使张唐往相燕，欲与燕共伐赵以广河间之地。
translation: 
Because Gan Mao was grateful for the king's gift and liked to be his minister, he declined the invitation and refused to go to Qin.
Now, my lord, what can you do to honor him? King Qi said: OK.
He was immediately appointed to the position of minister and left in Qi.
Qin also quickly exempted Gan Mao's family from taxes and corvee and competed with Qi to buy Gan Mao.
The State of Qi sent Gan Mao as an envoy to the State of Chu. King Huai of Chu had just intermarryed with the State of Qin and was very affectionate towards the State of Qin.
When the King of Qin heard that Gan Mao was in the State of Chu, he sent someone to say to the King of Chu: I hope to send Gan Mao to the State of Qin.
The King of Chu asked Fan Shu: I want to appoint a prime minister in Qin State. Who do you think is suitable?
Fan Shu replied: I am not capable enough and I cannot tell who is suitable.
The King of Chu said: I plan to let Gan Mao serve as prime minister. Is it appropriate?
Fan Shu replied: Inappropriate.
That Shi Ju was the gatekeeper of Xia Cai. He could not serve the king in big matters, nor could he manage the family well in small matters. He was famous for his survival, low personality, and lack of moral integrity, but Gan Mao was very respectful when he served him.
Therefore, considering King Hui's wisdom, King Wu's acumen, and Zhang Yi's eloquence, Gan Mao was able to serve them one by one and obtain ten official positions without committing any crime, which is difficult for ordinary scholars to achieve.
Gan Mao was indeed a talented man, but he could not serve as prime minister of Qin.
It is not a good thing for the state of Chu that the state of Qin has a capable prime minister. Moreover, the king had previously recommended Zhao Hua to serve in the Yue State. He secretly encouraged Zhang Yi to attack and caused chaos in the Yue State. Therefore, the Chu State was able to expand its territory, using Limen as a frontier and Jiangdong as a county.
I think the reason why the king's achievements have reached such a glorious level is that the country of Yue was in chaos and the country of Chu was in great rule.
Now the king only knows how to apply this strategy to Yue but forgets to apply it to Qin. I think it is a serious mistake for you to send Gan Mao to Qin to serve as prime minister.
Then again, if you plan to install a prime minister in Qin, it would be more suitable to install someone like Xiang Shou.
Xiang Shou was a relative to the King of Qin. When he was young, he wore the same clothes as the King of Qin, and when he grew up, he rode in the same car, so he could directly participate in state affairs.
Your Majesty must arrange for Xiang Shou to be appointed prime minister in Qin State, and that will be a good thing for Chu State.
So the King of Chu sent envoys to ask the King of Qin to let Xiang Shou serve as prime minister of Qin.
Qin finally made Xiang Shou the prime minister.
Gan Mao eventually failed to return to Qin, and later died in Wei.
Gan Mao had a grandson named Gan Luo.
Gan Luo is the grandson of Gan Mao.
When Gan Mao died, Gan Luo was only twelve years old and served Lu Buwei, the prime minister of Qin, Wen Xinhou.
The first emperor of Qin sent Cai Ze, the newly established king, to the state of Yan. Three years later, the king of Yan sent Prince Dan to Qin as a hostage.
The State of Qin was preparing to send Zhang Tang to the State of Yan to serve as prime minister, and planned to attack the State of Zhao with the State of Yan to expand the territory in the Hejian area.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
张唐谓文信侯曰： 臣尝为秦昭王伐赵，赵怨臣，曰： 得唐者与百里之地。
今之燕必经赵，臣不可以行。
文信侯不快，未有以彊也。
甘罗曰： 君侯何不快之甚也？
文信侯曰： 吾令刚成君蔡泽事燕三年，燕太子丹已入质矣，吾自请张卿相燕而不肯行。
甘罗曰： 臣请行之。
文信侯叱曰： 去！
我身自请之而不肯，女焉能行之？
甘罗曰： 大项橐生七岁为孔子师。
今臣生十二岁於兹矣，君其试臣，何遽叱乎？
於是甘罗见张卿曰： 卿之功孰与武安君？
卿曰： 武安君南挫彊楚，北威燕、赵，战胜攻取，破城堕邑，不知其数，臣之功不如也。
甘罗曰： 应侯之用於秦也，孰与文信侯专？
张卿曰： 应侯不如文信侯专。
甘罗曰： 卿明知其不如文信侯专与？
曰： 知之。
甘罗曰： 应侯欲攻赵，武安君难之，去咸阳七里而立死於杜邮。
今文信侯自请卿相燕而不肯行，臣不知卿所死处矣。
张唐曰： 请因孺子行。
令装治行。
行有日，甘罗谓文信侯曰： 借臣车五乘，请为张唐先报赵。
文信侯乃入言之於始皇曰： 昔甘茂之孙甘罗，年少耳，然名家之子孙，诸侯皆闻之。
今者张唐欲称疾不肯行，甘罗说而行之。
今原先报赵，请许遣之。
始皇召见，使甘罗於赵。
赵襄王郊迎甘罗。
甘罗说赵王曰： 王闻燕太子丹入质秦欤？
曰： 闻之。
曰： 闻张唐相燕欤？
曰： 闻之。
燕太子丹入秦者，燕不欺秦也。
张唐相燕者，秦不欺燕也。
translation: 
Zhang Tang said to Marquis Wenxin: I once attacked the State of Zhao for King Zhao, so the State of Zhao resented me. He once said: "Whoever can capture Zhang Tang will be rewarded with a hundred miles of land."
Now to go to Yan State, you must pass through Zhao State, and I can't go there.
Marquis Wenxin was unhappy after hearing this, but there was nothing he could do to force him to go.
Gan Luo said: Junhou, why are you so depressed?
Marquis Wenxin said: I asked Cai Ze, Lord Gangcheng, to serve the State of Yan for three years. Prince Dan of Yan has come to Qin as a hostage. I personally invited Zhang Qing to serve as Prime Minister of the State of Yan, but he was unwilling to go.
Gan Luo said: Please allow me to persuade him to go to Yan State.
Marquis Wenxin scolded and said: "Go away!"
I personally asked him to go, but he was unwilling. How could you let him go?
Gan Luo said: Xiang Luo became Confucius's teacher at the age of seven.
Now that I am twelve years old, you still let me give it a try. Why are you so anxious to scold me?
So Wenxinhou agreed. Gan Luo went to see Zhang Qing and said: "Compared with your contribution and that of Lord Wu'an Bai Qi, who has greater contribution?"
Zhang Qing said: Lord Wu An defeated the powerful Chu State in the south, used his power to intimidate Yan and Zhao in the north, was able to win in battle, conquered in attack, and captured countless cities and towns. My achievements cannot compare with him.
Gan Luo said again: When Yinghou Fan Sui was the prime minister of Qin, who had greater power compared with the current Marquis Wenxin?
Zhang Qing said: Marquis Ying is not as powerful as Marquis Wenxin.
Gan Luo then said: Do you really understand that Marquis Ying is not as powerful as Marquis Wenxin?
Zhang Qing said: I really understand this.
Gan Luo went on to say: Marquis Ying planned to attack the State of Zhao, but Lord Wu An deliberately made things difficult for him. As a result, Lord Wu An died in Duyou as soon as he left Qili of Xianyang.
Now that Marquis Wenxin has personally invited you to serve as Prime Minister of the State of Yan but you insist on refusing, I don't know where you are going to die.
Zhang Tang said: Then follow your boy's advice and go to Yan State.
So people packed their bags and prepared to go on the road.
The departure date had been set, and Gan Luo said to Marquis Wenxin: Lend me five carriages, and please allow me to say hello to Zhao when Zhang Tang goes to Yan.
Marquis Wenxin went into the palace and reported Gan Luo's request to Qin Shihuang, saying: In the past, Gan Mao had a grandson named Gan Luo. He was very young, but he was a descendant of a famous family, so the princes all heard about it.
Recently, Zhang Tang wanted to excuse himself from going to Yan State because he was ill, but Gan Luo persuaded him and made him go resolutely.
Now Gan Luo is willing to go to Zhao State first to inform Zhang Tang about Zhang Tang, and please agree to send him there.
Qin Shihuang summoned Gan Luo and sent him to Zhao.
King Zhao Xiang went to the outskirts to welcome Gan Luo.
Gan Luo persuaded King Zhao and asked, "Has your Majesty heard that Prince Dan of Yan went to Qin as a hostage?"
King Zhao replied: I heard about it.
Gan Luo asked again: Have you heard that Zhang Tang is going to Yan State to serve as prime minister?
King Zhao replied: I heard about it.
Gan Luo then said: Prince Dan of Yan came to Qin, which shows that Yan will not deceive Qin.
Zhang Tang went to Yan State to serve as prime minister, which showed that Qin State would not deceive Yan State.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
燕、秦不相欺者，伐赵，危矣。
燕、秦不相欺无异故，欲攻赵而广河间。
王不如赍臣五城以广河间，请归燕太子，与彊赵攻弱燕。
赵王立自割五城以广河间。
秦归燕太子。赵攻燕，得上谷三十城，令秦有十一。
甘罗还报秦，乃封甘罗以为上卿，复以始甘茂田宅赐之。
太史公曰：樗里子以骨肉重，固其理，而秦人称其智，故颇采焉。
甘茂起下蔡闾阎，显名诸侯，重彊齐楚。
甘罗年少，然出一奇计，声称後世。
虽非笃行之君子，然亦战国之策士也。
方秦之彊时，天下尤趋谋诈哉
translation: 
Yan and Qin do not bully each other. They obviously want to attack Zhao together, and Zhao will be in danger.
Yan and Qin did not bully each other for no other reason than to attack Zhao to expand their territory in the Hejian area.
Your Majesty, why don't you give me five cities first to expand Qin's territory in Hejian? I ask the King of Qin to send back the Prince of Yan, and then help the powerful Zhao State attack the weak Yan State.
King Zhao immediately set aside five cities to expand Qin's territory in the river.
Qin State sent back Prince Yan, and Zhao State had no fear and attacked Yan State. As a result, Zhao State obtained thirty cities in the upper valley, allowing Qin State to occupy eleven of them.
After Gan Luo came back, he reported the situation to the King of Qin. The King of Qin then rewarded Gan Luo and made him a minister. He also gave Gan Luo the land and house that belonged to Gan Mao.
Tai Shigong said: It is common sense that Chuilizi was favored because he was a brother of the King of Qin. However, the people of Qin praised his intelligence and recorded more of his deeds.
Gan Mao was born among the common people in Xiacai, and his reputation was well-known among the princes, and he was highly respected by the powerful Qi and Chu states.
Gan Luo was very young, but he came up with an ingenious plan and his reputation will be remembered by future generations.
Although he is not a loyal gentleman, he is also a veritable counselor during the Warring States Period.
It should be noted that when the Qin State became strong and prosperous, the world became more and more inclined to pursue the art of contingency and deception!


