Chunk 0: 
original: 
季布者，楚人也。为气任侠，有名於楚。
项籍使将兵，数窘汉王。
及项羽灭，高祖购求布千金，敢有舍匿，罪及三族。
季布匿濮阳周氏。
周氏曰： 汉购将军急，迹且至臣家，将军能听臣，臣敢献计；即不能，原先自刭。
季布许之。
乃髡钳季布，衣褐衣，置广柳车中，并与其家僮数十人，之鲁硃家所卖之。
硃家心知是季布，乃买而置之田。诫其子曰： 田事听此奴，必与同食。
硃家乃乘轺车之洛阳，见汝阴侯滕公。
滕公留硃家饮数日。
因谓滕公曰： 季布何大罪，而上求之急也？
滕公曰： 布数为项羽窘上，上怨之，故必欲得之。
硃家曰： 君视季布何如人也？
曰： 贤者也。
硃家曰： 臣各为其主用，季布为项籍用，职耳。
项氏臣可尽诛邪？
translation: 
Ji Bu was from the Chu region. He was ambitious and chivalrous, and was very famous in the Chu region.
Xiang Yu sent him to lead the army, which embarrassed Liu Bang, the king of Han, many times.
After Xiang Yu's death, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty offered a thousand gold reward for Ji Bu's capture, and ordered anyone who dared to harbor Ji Bu to be punished for his crime.
Ji Bu hid in the home of a family named Zhou in Puyang.
The Zhou family said: It is very urgent that the Han Dynasty offers a reward for your capture. The tracking and search will come to my house. General, if you can obey my words, I will dare to give you a plan; if not, I would rather commit suicide first.
Ji Bu agreed to him.
The Zhou family then shaved off Ji Bu's hair, tied his neck with an iron hoop, put him in coarse cloth, put him in a cart, and sold him to the Zhu family of Lu, along with dozens of Zhou family's slaves.
The Zhu family knew in their hearts that it was Jibu, so they bought it and put it in the fields for farming. They also warned his son: "Everything about farming in the fields must be obeyed by this slave, and he must eat the same food as him."
The Zhu family took a light carriage to Luoyang and paid a visit to Ruyin Marquis Teng Gong.
Duke Teng left the Zhu family to drink for several days.
The Zhu family took the opportunity to ask Duke Teng: What serious crime did Ji Bu commit that made the emperor so eager to pursue him?
Teng Gong said: Ji Bu embarrassed the emperor many times on behalf of Xiang Yu. The emperor resented him, so he had to catch him before he could rest.
Zhu Jia said: What kind of person do you think Ji Bu is?
Teng Gong said: He is a talented person.
The Zhu family said: Each minister is sent by his master, and Ji Bu is sent by Xiang Yu. This is entirely within the scope of his official duties.
Can Xiang Yu's ministers be killed all?


Chunk 1: 
original: 
今上始得天下，独以己之私怨求一人，何示天下之不广也！
且以季布之贤而汉求之急如此，此不北走胡即南走越耳。
夫忌壮士以资敌国，此伍子胥所以鞭荆平王之墓也。
君何不从容为上言邪？
汝阴侯滕公心知硃家大侠，意季布匿其所，乃许曰： 诺。
待间，果言如硃家指。
上乃赦季布。
当是时，诸公皆多季布能摧刚为柔，硃家亦以此名闻当世。
季布召见，谢，上拜为郎中。
孝惠时，为中郎将。
单于尝为书嫚吕后，不逊，吕后大怒，召诸将议之。
上将军樊哙曰： 臣原得十万众，横行匈奴中。
诸将皆阿吕后意，曰 然 。
季布曰： 樊哙可斩也！
夫高帝将兵四十馀万众，困於平城，今哙柰何以十万众横行匈奴中，面欺！
且秦以事於胡，陈胜等起。
于今创痍未瘳，哙又面谀，欲摇动天下。
是时殿上皆恐，太后罢朝，遂不复议击匈奴事。
translation: 
Now that the emperor has just conquered the world, why should he show his narrowness to the world when he pursues a person based solely on his personal resentment?
Moreover, because of Ji Bu's talents, the Han Dynasty pursued him so urgently that he would either flee north to the Huns or south to Yue.
This behavior of hating the warriors and going to support the enemy country was the reason why Wu Zixu wanted to whip the body of King Ping of Chu.
Why don't you look for an opportunity to explain it to the emperor?
Teng Gong, the Marquis of Ruyin, knew that the Zhu family was a great knight, and guessed that Ji Bu must be hiding in his place, so he agreed and said, "Okay."
Teng Gong waited for the opportunity and reported to the emperor exactly what the Zhu family wanted.
The emperor then pardoned Ji Bu.
At this time, many famous people praised Ji Bu for his ability to turn toughness into suppleness, and the Zhu family became famous at that time.
Later, Ji Bu was summoned by the emperor to plead guilty, and the emperor appointed him as a doctor.
During the reign of Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty, Ji Bu served as Zhonglang General.
Chanyu, the king of the Huns, once wrote a letter to insult Empress Lu and made rude remarks. Empress Lu was very angry and summoned all the generals to discuss the matter.
General Fan Kuai said: I am willing to lead 100,000 troops to sweep away the Xiongnu.
All the generals catered to Empress Lu's wishes and said in unison: "Okay."
Ji Bu said: Fan Kuai really deserves to be beheaded!
Back then, Emperor Gao led an army of 400,000 people and was besieged in Pingcheng. How could Fan Kuai sweep the Xiongnu with 100,000 troops now? This is lying to your face!
Besides, it was precisely because the Qin Dynasty used troops against the Huns that Chen Sheng and others rebelled.
Until now, the wound has not been cured, and Fan Kuai flatters him in person, hoping to make the world uneasy.
At this time, the generals in the palace were frightened, so Queen Lu retreated from the court and finally stopped talking about attacking the Xiongnu.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
季布为河东守，孝文时，人有言其贤者，孝文召，欲以为御史大夫。
复有言其勇，使酒难近。
至，留邸一月，见罢。
季布因进曰： 臣无功窃宠，待罪河东。
陛下无故召臣，此人必有以臣欺陛下者；今臣至，无所受事，罢去，此人必有以毁臣者。
夫陛下以一人之誉而召臣，一人之毁而去臣，臣恐天下有识闻之有以闚陛下也。
上默然惭，良久曰： 河东吾股肱郡，故特召君耳。
布辞之官。楚人曹丘生，辩士，数招权顾金钱。
事贵人赵同等，与窦长君善。
季布闻之，寄书谏窦长君曰： 吾闻曹丘生非长者，勿与通。
translation: 
Ji Bu became the governor of Hedong County. During the reign of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, some people said that he was very talented, so the Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty summoned him and planned to appoint him as the imperial censor.
Others said he was brave, but drunken, willful and unapproachable.
Ji Bu came to the capital Chang'an and stayed in a guest house for a month. After the emperor summoned him, he was sent back to his original county.
Ji Bu therefore said to the emperor: I have no merit, but I have been favored by you and served in Hedong County.
Now that your majesty has summoned me for no reason, this must be because someone praised me and used me to deceive your majesty; now that I have come to the capital and was sent back to my original county without accepting anything, this must be because someone is slandering me in front of you.
Your Majesty summoned me because of a person's praise, and asked me to go back because of a person's slander. I'm afraid that after hearing this, the knowledgeable people in the world will get a glimpse of the depth of your conduct.
The emperor remained silent, feeling embarrassed, and after a long time he said: Hedong is the most important county to me, like my thighs and arms, so I specially summoned you!
So Ji Bu said goodbye to the emperor and returned to his original post as governor of Hedong County. There was a gentleman named Cao Qiu in the Chu region. He was good at rhetoric and eloquent. He used his power to obtain money many times.
He once served nobles like Zhao Tong and had friendship with Dou Changjun.
When Ji Bu heard about this, he sent a letter to advise Dou Changjun: "I heard that Mr. Cao Qiu is not a highly respected person. You should not associate with him."


Chunk 3: 
original: 
及曹丘生归，欲得书请季布。窦长君曰： 季将军不说足下，足下无往。
固请书，遂行。
使人先发书，季布果大怒，待曹丘。
曹丘至，即揖季布曰： 楚人谚曰 得黄金百，不如得季布一诺 ，足下何以得此声於梁楚间哉？
且仆楚人，足下亦楚人也。
仆游扬足下之名於天下，顾不重邪？
何足下距仆之深也！
季布乃大说，引入，留数月，为上客，厚送之。
季布名所以益闻者，曹丘扬之也。
季布弟季心，气盖关中，遇人恭谨，为任侠，方数千里，士皆争为之死。
尝杀人，亡之吴，从袁丝匿。
长事袁丝，弟畜灌夫、籍福之属。
尝为中司马，中尉郅都不敢不加礼。
少年多时时窃籍其名以行。
translation: 
When Mr. Cao Qiu returned to his hometown, he asked Dou Changjun to write a letter to introduce him to Ji Bu. Dou Changjun said: "General Ji doesn't like you, so don't go."
Cao Qiu insisted on asking Dou Changjun to write a letter of introduction. After finally getting it, he set off.
Cao Qiu first sent a letter of introduction from Dou Changjun to Ji Bu. Ji Bu was furious after receiving the letter and waited for Cao Qiu's arrival.
When Cao Qiu arrived, he bowed to Ji Bu and said, "There is a proverb among the Chu people: getting a hundred catties of gold is not as good as getting a promise from Ji Bu." How could you gain such a reputation in the Liang and Chu areas?
Besides, I am from Chudi, and you are also from Chudi.
I spread your reputation all over the world, am I not important to you?
Why do you reject me so firmly!
Ji Bu was very happy. He invited Cao Qiu to come in and stayed with him for several months. He treated him as the most distinguished guest and gave him generous gifts.
The reason why Ji Bu's reputation is famous far and wide is because Cao Qiu promoted it for him!
Ji Bu's younger brother was named Ji Xin, and his courage surpassed all the people in Guanzhong. He was respectful and prudent in his treatment of others, and was willing to do justice and chivalry. Scholars from thousands of miles around were vying to serve him.
Ji Xin once killed someone and fled to Wu Di, hiding in Yuan Si's home.
Ji Xin served Yuan Si with the same courtesy as her elder brother, and treated Guan Fu and Ji Fu like her younger brothers.
He once served as a Sima under the Lieutenant, and Lieutenant Zhidu did not dare to treat him disrespectfully.
Many young people often secretly pretend to be his name and go out to do things.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
当是时，季心以勇，布以诺，著闻关中。
季布母弟丁公，为楚将。
丁公为项羽逐窘高祖彭城西，短兵接，高祖急，顾丁公曰： 两贤岂相戹哉！
於是丁公引兵而还，汉王遂解去。
及项王灭，丁公谒见高祖。
高祖以丁公徇军中，曰： 丁公为项王臣不忠，使项王失天下者，乃丁公也。
遂斩丁公，曰： 使後世为人臣者无效丁公！
栾布者，梁人也。
始梁王彭越为家人时，尝与布游。
穷困，赁佣於齐，为酒人保。
数岁，彭越去之巨野中为盗，而布为人所略卖，为奴於燕。
为其家主报仇，燕将臧荼举以为都尉。
臧荼後为燕王，以布为将。
及臧荼反，汉击燕，虏布。
梁王彭越闻之，乃言上，请赎布以为梁大夫。
translation: 
At that time, Ji Xin was famous for his bravery, and Ji Bu was famous for his promise. Both were famous in Guanzhong.
Ji Bu's uncle Ding Gong served as the general of the Chu army.
Ding Gong once chased Han Gaozu for Xiang Yu to the west of Pengcheng, which put Gaozu in an embarrassing situation. When the soldiers were fighting hand to hand, Gaozu felt the crisis and turned to Duke Ding and said: Are we two heroes going to make things difficult for each other?
So Ding Gong led his troops back, and the King of Han escaped to relieve the siege.
After Xiang Yu's death, Ding Gong paid homage to Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu captured Ding Gong and put him in the military camp for public display, saying: Ding Gong was unable to be loyal as King Xiang's subordinate, and it was Ding Gong who made King Xiang lose the world!
So he beheaded Ding Gong and said: "Let future generations serve as ministers not to imitate Ding Gong!"
Luan Bu was from Liang.
When Liang Wang Pengyue was a commoner, he dated Luan Bu.
Luan Bu's family was poor, so he was hired as a servant in Qidi for a liquor seller.
A few years later, Peng Yue came to Juye to work as a bandit, but Luan Bu was forcibly kidnapped and sold into the Yan Kingdom as a slave.
Because Luan Bu avenged his master's family, Yan general Zang Tu recommended him to be the captain.
Later Zang Tu became King of Yan and appointed Luan Bu as general.
When Zang Tu rebelled and the Han Dynasty attacked Yan, they captured Luan Bu.
When Liang Wang Pengyue heard about this, he proposed to the emperor and asked to redeem Luan Bu and make him the official of the Liang Kingdom.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
使於齐，未还，汉召彭越，责以谋反，夷三族。
已而枭彭越头於雒阳下，诏曰： 有敢收视者，辄捕之。
布从齐还，奏事彭越头下，祠而哭之。
吏捕布以闻。
上召布，骂曰： 若与彭越反邪？
吾禁人勿收，若独祠而哭之，与越反明矣。
趣亨之。 方提趣汤，布顾曰： 原一言而死。 上曰： 何言？
布曰： 方上之困於彭城，败荥阳、成皋间，项王所以不能西，徒以彭王居梁地，与汉合从苦楚也。
当是之时，彭王一顾，与楚则汉破，与汉而楚破。
且垓下之会，微彭王，项氏不亡。
天下已定，彭王剖符受封，亦欲传之万世。
今陛下一徵兵於梁，彭王病不行，而陛下疑以为反，反形未见，以苛小案诛灭之，臣恐功臣人人自危也。
今彭王已死，臣生不如死，请就亨。
translation: 
Later, Luan Bu went to Qi as an envoy, but before he returned, the Han Dynasty summoned Peng Yue, punished him for treason, and killed Peng Yue's three tribes.
Afterwards, Peng Yue's head was hung under the gate of Luoyang City for public display, and an order was issued: If anyone dares to come to collect or visit the body, he will be arrested immediately.
At this time, Luan Bu returned from Qi and reported the situation of his mission under Peng Yue's head, while offering sacrifices and crying.
The officials arrested him and reported the matter to the emperor.
The emperor summoned Luan Bu and scolded him: "Are you going to rebel with Peng Yue?"
I ordered no one to collect the body, but you insist on sacrificing him and crying for him, then it is clear that you are rebelling with Peng Yue. Cook him quickly!
When the people around the emperor were lifting Luan Bu towards the soup pot, Luan Bu turned around and said, "I hope you can let me say a word before I die." The emperor said: What did you say?
Luan Bu said: When Your Majesty was trapped in Pengcheng and defeated at Xingyang and Chenggao, the reason why King Xiang could not advance westward smoothly was because King Peng held Liang and joined forces with the Han army to create difficulties for Chu.
At that time, as long as King Peng turns around and joins forces with Chu, Han will fail; if he joins forces with Han, Chu will fail.
Let’s talk about the Battle of Gaixia. Without King Peng, Xiang Yu would not have perished.
Now that the world has stabilized, King Peng accepted the Fujie and was granted the title, and he also wanted to pass on the title from generation to generation.
Now His Majesty only went to Liang to recruit troops. King Peng could not come due to illness, so His Majesty became suspicious and thought that he was planning to rebel. However, the signs of rebellion were not revealed, but his family was destroyed because of his strict demands on details. I am worried that everyone with meritorious deeds will feel that they are in danger.
Now that King Peng is dead, I would rather die than live, so please cook me.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
於是上乃释布罪，拜为都尉。
孝文时，为燕相，至将军。
布乃称曰： 穷困不能辱身下志，非人也；富贵不能快意，非贤也。
於是尝有德者厚报之，有怨者必以法灭之。
吴反时，以军功封俞侯，复为燕相。
燕齐之间皆为栾布立社，号曰栾公社。
景帝中五年薨。
子贲嗣，为太常，牺牲不如令，国除。
太史公曰：以项羽之气，而季布以勇显於楚，身屦军搴旗者数矣，可谓壮士。
然至被刑戮，为人奴而不死，何其下也！
彼必自负其材，故受辱而不羞，欲有所用其未足也，故终为汉名将。
贤者诚重其死。夫婢妾贱人感慨而自杀者，非能勇也，其计画无复之耳。
栾布哭彭越，趣汤如归者，彼诚知所处，不自重其死。
虽往古烈士，何以加哉！
translation: 
So the emperor pardoned Luan Bu's sins and appointed him as captain.
During the reign of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, Luan Bu served as the Prime Minister of the State of Yan, rising to the rank of general.
Luan Bu once said: When he is poor, he who cannot withstand physical and mental humiliation is not a good man; when he is rich and noble, he who cannot satisfy his gratification is not a virtuous man.
Therefore, Luan Bu would repay those who had been kind to him generously; and he would definitely use the law to get rid of those who had a grudge.
When the seven kingdoms of Wu and Chu rebelled, Luan Bu was granted the title of Marquis of Yu for his meritorious service in the war, and became the prime minister of Yan.
In places like Yan and Qi, temples were built for Luan Bu, called Luan Commune.
Luan Bu passed away in the fifth year of Emperor Jing's reign in the Han Dynasty.
His son Luan Ben inherited the title and served as Taichang. Because the animals used for sacrifice were illegal, the feudal state was abolished.
Tai Shigong said: With Xiang Yu's arrogance, Ji Bu became famous in the Chu region for his bravery. He personally destroyed the enemy troops and took out the enemy's flag many times. He can be regarded as a hero.
However, he was punished and refused to die as a slave. How despicable he looked!
He must be conceited and talented, so he suffered humiliation without feeling ashamed, hoping to develop his unused talents, so he finally became a famous general in the Han Dynasty.
A virtuous person can really value his death. As for slaves, concubines and other lowly people who commit suicide out of anger, it is not considered brave. It is because they think there is no other way.
Luan Bu cried bitterly to Peng Yue. He regarded going to the soup pot to die as if he were going home. He truly knew that he should die well and not begrudge his life.
Even those who valued righteousness over life in ancient times could surpass him!


