Chunk 0: 
original: 
项籍者，下相人也，字羽。
初起时，年二十四。
其季父项梁，梁父即楚将项燕，为秦将王翦所戮者也。
项氏世世为楚将，封於项，故姓项氏。
项籍少时，学书不成，去。
学剑，又不成。
项梁怒之。
籍曰： 书足以记名姓而已。
剑一人敌，不足学，学万人敌。
於是项梁乃教籍兵法，籍大喜，略知其意，又不肯竟学。
项梁尝有栎阳逮，乃请蕲狱掾曹咎书抵栎阳狱掾司马欣，以故事得已。
项梁杀人，与籍避仇於吴中。
吴中贤士大夫皆出项梁下。
每吴中有大繇役及丧，项梁常为主办，阴以兵法部勒宾客及子弟，以是知其能。
秦始皇帝游会稽，渡浙江，梁与籍俱观。
籍曰： 彼可取而代也。
梁掩其口，曰： 毋妄言，族矣！
梁以此奇籍。
籍长八尺馀，力能扛鼎，才气过人，虽吴中子弟皆已惮籍矣。
translation: 
Xiang Ji, Xia Xiangren, named Yu.
He was twenty-four years old when he started to fight.
His uncle was Xiang Liang, and Xiang Liang's father was Chu general Xiang Yan, who was killed by Qin general Wang Jian.
The Xiang family has been a general of Chu for generations and was granted the title of Xiang, hence the surname Xiang.
When Xiang Ji was a child, he learned to read and write but failed.
He gave up learning calligraphy and switched to fencing, but failed again.
Xiang Liang was very angry with him.
Xiang Ji said: Characters are only used to remember names.
A sword can only withstand one enemy, so it is not worth learning. You must learn to be able to withstand ten thousand people.
So Xiang Liang taught Xiang Ji the art of war. Xiang Ji was very happy and roughly understood the general idea of ​​the art of war, but he refused to finish it seriously.
Xiang Liang was once implicated in the Yueyang crime case, so he asked Cao Jiu, the warden of Qixian County, to write to Sima Xin, the warden of Yueyang, and the matter was settled.
Xiang Liang killed someone, and he and Xiang Ji went to Wuzhong to avoid their enemies.
None of the talented scholar-bureaucrats in Wuzhong could compare with Xiang Liang.
Whenever there was a large-scale military service or funeral in Wuzhong, Xiang Liang often took charge of the arrangements and secretly used military arrangements to arrange guests and children, so he understood everyone's abilities.
When the First Emperor of Qin visited Kuaiji and crossed Zhejiang, Xiang Liang and Xiang Ji went to watch it together.
Xiang Ji said: I can replace that emperor.
Xiang Liang covered his mouth and said, "Don't talk nonsense, or the whole clan will be beheaded!"
Xiang Liang therefore felt that Xiang Ji was different from ordinary people.
Xiang Ji is more than eight feet tall, can lift a cauldron, and is so talented that the children of Wuzhong already fear him.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
秦二世元年七月，陈胜等起大泽中。
其九月，会稽守通谓梁曰： 江西皆反，此亦天亡秦之时也。
吾闻先即制人，後则为人所制。
吾欲发兵，使公及桓楚将。
是时桓楚亡在泽中。
梁曰： 桓楚亡，人莫知其处，独籍知之耳。
梁乃出，诫籍持剑居外待。
梁复入，与守坐，曰： 请召籍，使受命召桓楚。 守曰： 诺。
梁召籍入。
须臾，梁眴籍曰： 可行矣！
於是籍遂拔剑斩守头。
项梁持守头，佩其印绶。
门下大惊，扰乱，籍所击杀数十百人。
一府中皆慴伏，莫敢起。
梁乃召故所知豪吏，谕以所为起大事，遂举吴中兵。
使人收下县，得精兵八千人。
梁部署吴中豪杰为校尉、候、司马。
有一人不得用，自言於梁。
梁曰： 前时某丧使公主某事，不能办，以此不任用公。
众乃皆伏。
於是梁为会稽守，籍为裨将，徇下县。
广陵人召平於是为陈王徇广陵，未能下。
闻陈王败走，秦兵又且至，乃渡江矫陈王命，拜梁为楚王上柱国。
曰： 江东已定，急引兵西击秦。
项梁乃以八千人渡江而西。
闻陈婴已下东阳，使使欲与连和俱西。
translation: 
In July of the first year of Qin II, Chen She and others revolted in Daze Township.
In September of that year, Yin Tong, the governor of Kuaiji County, told Xiang Liang that Jiangxi had rebelled, and that this was also the time when God would destroy the Qin Dynasty.
I heard that those who strike first can control others, and those who strike last are controlled by others.
I want to send troops and send you and Huan Chu to lead them.
At that time, Huan Chu fled to Zezhong.
Xiang Liang said: Huan Chu died and was hiding outside. No one knew his whereabouts. Only Xiang Ji knew.
Xiang Liang came out and told Xiang Ji to wait outside with his sword.
Xiang Liang went in again and sat with the county guard. Xiang Liang said: "Please allow me to call Xiang Yu in and let him accept the order to recall Huan Chu." The Sheriff said: Okay.
Xiang Liang called Xiang Ji in.
After a while, Xiang Liang winked at Xiang Ji and said, "It's time to take action!"
So Xiang Yu drew his sword and chopped off the head of the governor.
Xiang Liang took the county governor's head and tied the official seal of the county governor on his body.
The guards of the county guard were greatly alarmed and in chaos, Xiang Yu killed more than a hundred people.
Everyone in the mansion was in a state of fear and submission, and no one dared to resist.
Xiang Liang summoned the courageous and powerful officials he was familiar with in the past and made it clear to everyone what he was going to do to raise an army against Qin, so he recruited the soldiers of Wu Zhong to revolt.
He sent people to recruit strong men from the subordinate counties and got 8,000 elite soldiers.
Xiang Liang arranged for the heroes of Wuzhong to be school captains, marquises, and Sima.
One person was not appointed and went to complain to Xiang Liang himself.
Xiang Liang said: There was a funeral some time ago and I asked you to take charge of something. You couldn't handle it, so I didn't appoint you.
So everyone admired Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang was the governor of Kuaiji, and Xiang Ji was the general. Zhenfu subordinate counties and cities.
Zhao Ping, a native of Guangling, was trying to capture the territory of Guangling for King Chen, but he did not surrender.
Hearing that King Chen was defeated and fled, and that Qin soldiers were about to arrive, he crossed the river and asked King Chen to give him orders to worship Xiang Liang as the king of Chu's Shangzhu Kingdom.
Zhao Ping said: Jiangdong has been pacified, so quickly lead troops to the west to attack the Qin army.
Xiang Liang crossed the river with eight thousand men and headed west.
He heard that Chen Ying had captured Dongyang, so he sent an envoy to join forces with Chen Ying to advance westward.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
陈婴者，故东阳令史，居县中，素信谨，称为长者。
东阳少年杀其令，相聚数千人，欲置长，无適用，乃请陈婴。
婴谢不能，遂彊立婴为长，县中从者得二万人。
少年欲立婴便为王，异军苍头特起。
陈婴母谓婴曰： 自我为汝家妇，未尝闻汝先古之有贵者。
今暴得大名，不祥。
不如有所属，事成犹得封侯，事败易以亡，非世所指名也。
婴乃不敢为王。
谓其军吏曰： 项氏世世将家，有名於楚。
今欲举大事，将非其人，不可。
我倚名族，亡秦必矣。
於是众从其言，以兵属项梁。
项梁渡淮，黥布、蒲将军亦以兵属焉。
凡六七万人，军下邳。
当是时，秦嘉已立景驹为楚王，军彭城东，欲距项梁。
translation: 
Chen Ying turned out to be the governor of Dongyang. He had always been honest and prudent in the county, and people called him a loyal elder.
Young people in Dongyang killed their county magistrate and gathered thousands of people to elect a leader. When no one was found, they asked Chen Ying to take over.
Chen Ying refused and said he was not qualified, so everyone forcibly elected him as the leader, with 20,000 followers in the county.
The young people planned to elect Chen Ying to be king. In order to distinguish himself from other armies, the soldiers wore green scarves on their heads to signify the sudden rise of the army.
Chen Ying's mother said to Chen Ying: Since I became the daughter-in-law of the Chen family, I have never heard that your predecessors had high officials or noble titles.
It's not a good sign to suddenly gain a lot of fame now.
It's better to belong to something. If things succeed, you can still get a title. If things fail, it's easier to escape because you won't attract the attention of the world.
Therefore, Chen Ying did not dare to become king.
He said to his military officers: The Xiang family has been a general for generations and is famous in Chu.
Now if you want to accomplish great things, you have to use the right general.
If we rely on famous families, we will definitely destroy the Qin Dynasty.
So everyone listened to him and gave the army to Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang crossed the Huai River, and generals Yingbu and Pu also led their troops to surrender.
Xiang Liang had a total of sixty or seventy thousand men stationed in Xiapi.
At this time, Qin Jia had established Jingju as King of Chu and stationed himself east of Pengcheng, hoping to resist Xiang Liang.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
项梁谓军吏曰： 陈王先首事，战不利，未闻所在。
今秦嘉倍陈王而立景驹，逆无道。
乃进兵击秦嘉。
秦嘉军败走，追之至胡陵。
嘉还战一日，嘉死，军降。
景驹走死梁地。
项梁已并秦嘉军，军胡陵，将引军而西。
章邯军至栗，项梁使别将硃鸡石、馀樊君与战。
馀樊君死。硃鸡石军败，亡走胡陵。
项梁乃引兵入薛，诛鸡石。
项梁前使项羽别攻襄城，襄城坚守不下。
已拔，皆阬之。还报项梁。
项梁闻陈王定死，召诸别将会薛计事。
此时沛公亦起沛，往焉。
居鄛人范增，年七十，素居家，好奇计，往说项梁曰： 陈胜败固当。
夫秦灭六国，楚最无罪。
translation: 
Xiang Liang said to the soldiers: King Chen started the rebellion first, and the battle was not successful. His whereabouts are unknown.
Now Qin Jia betrayed King Chen and established Jingju, which was a treasonous act.
Xiang Liang then marched to attack Qin Jia.
Qin Jia's army was defeated and fled, and Xiang Liang pursued him to Hu Ling.
Qin Jia returned to the army and fought for a day. Qin Jia was killed in battle and his soldiers surrendered.
Jingju fled and died in Liangdi.
Xiang Liang has merged Qin Jia's army and is stationed in Huling, and will lead the army westward.
Zhang Han's army arrived at Li County, and Xiang Liang sent generals Zhujishi and Yu Fanjun to fight with him.
Yu Fanjun died in battle, Zhujishi's army was defeated and fled to Huling.
Xiang Liang then led his troops into Xue County and killed Zhujishi.
Before this, Xiang Liang sent Xiang Yu to lead another army to attack Xiangcheng, but Xiangcheng held on and refused to surrender.
After the capture, all the soldiers and civilians who defended the city were killed, and they came back to report to Xiang Liang.
Xiang Liang heard that King Chen was indeed dead, so he summoned all the generals to Xue County to discuss important matters.
At this time, Pei Gong also raised troops from Pei and went to Xue County.
Fan Zeng, a Juhuan, is seventy years old. He has always lived at home and likes to come up with clever ideas. He went to lobby Xiang Liang and said: Chen Sheng's failure was the right thing to do.
Qin destroyed the six kingdoms, and Chu was the least at fault.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
自怀王入秦不反，楚人怜之至今，故楚南公曰 楚虽三户，亡秦必楚 也。
今陈胜首事，不立楚後而自立，其势不长。
今君起江东，楚蜂午之将皆争附君者，以君世世楚将，为能复立楚之後也。
於是项梁然其言，乃求楚怀王孙心民间，为人牧羊，立以为楚怀王，从民所望也。
陈婴为楚上柱国，封五县，与怀王都盱台。
项梁自号为武信君。
居数月，引兵攻亢父，与齐田荣、司马龙且军救东阿，大破秦军於东阿。
田荣即引兵归，逐其王假。
假亡走楚。
假相田角亡走赵。
角弟田间故齐将，居赵不敢归。
田荣立田儋子市为齐王。
项梁已破东阿下军，遂追秦军。
数使使趣齐兵，欲与俱西。
田荣曰： 楚杀田假，赵杀田角、田间，乃发兵。
项梁曰： 田假为与国之王，穷来从我，不忍杀之。
赵亦不杀田角、田间以市於齐。
齐遂不肯发兵助楚。
项梁使沛公及项羽别攻城阳，屠之。
西破秦军濮阳东，秦兵收入濮阳。
沛公、项羽乃攻定陶。
定陶未下，去，西略地至雝丘，大破秦军，斩李由。
还攻外黄，外黄未下。
项梁起东阿，西，至定陶，再破秦军，项羽等又斩李由，益轻秦，有骄色。
宋义乃谏项梁曰： 战胜而将骄卒惰者败。
今卒少惰矣，秦兵日益，臣为君畏之。
项梁弗听。
乃使宋义使於齐。
道遇齐使者高陵君显，曰： 公将见武信君乎？
曰： 然。
曰： 臣论武信君军必败。
公徐行即免死，疾行则及祸。
translation: 
Since King Huai of Chu entered Qin and never returned, the people of Chu still miss him. Therefore, Duke Nan of Chu said, "Although Chu has three households, if Qin is destroyed, it will be Chu."
Now that Chen Sheng is the first to start the rebellion and proclaim himself king instead of a descendant of Chu, his situation will not last long.
Now that you have launched an army to the east of the Yangtze River, the people of Chu are like swarms of bees, all vying to join you. This is because the Xiang family has been Chu generals for generations and can once again establish the descendants of Chu.
Xiang Liang thought he was right, so he found the grandson of King Huai of Chu among the people. He was tending sheep for people. Xiang Liang made him King Huai of Chu and obeyed the people's wishes.
Chen Ying ruled the Shangzhu Kingdom of Chu and had five counties in his fiefdom. Together with King Huai of Chu, he established Xutai as the capital.
Xiang Liang called himself Lord Wu Xin.
A few months later, Xiang Liang led troops to attack Kangfu, and together with the troops of Tian Rong and Sima Longqie of Qi State, he rescued Dong'a and defeated the Qin army in Dong'a.
Tian Rong led his army back to his old place and drove away King Tianjia of Qi.
Tianjia fled to Chu State.
Tian Jiao, the prime minister of Tianjia, fled to Zhao.
Tian Jiao's younger brother Tian Jian turned out to be a general of Qi State, but he stayed in Zhao State and did not dare to go back.
Tian Rong made Tian Dan's son Tian Shi the king of Qi.
Xiang Liang had already defeated the Qin army in Dong'e, so he pursued him.
He sent envoys many times to urge the Qi army, intending to join forces with it to march westward.
Tian Rong said: Chu killed Tianjia, and Zhao killed Tianjiao and Tianjian, so I will send troops.
Xiang Liang said: Tianjia is the king of a country friendly to Chu. He came to rely on me when he was desperate. I couldn't bear to kill him.
Zhao also did not kill Tianjiao and Tianjian as a condition of exchange with Qi.
So Qi refused to send troops to help Chu.
Xiang Liang sent Pei Gong and Xiang Yu to lead another army to attack Chengyang and massacred the county seat.
Xiangxi defeated the Qin army east of Puyang, and the Qin army withdrew its troops and entered Puyang.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu attacked Dingtao.
After failing to capture Dingtao, he led his army to leave, marched westward and captured the territory, reaching Yongqiu, where he defeated the Qin army and killed Li You.
He returned to attack Waihuang but failed to capture it.
Xiang Liang set out from Dong'a and marched westward. When he arrived at Dingtao, he defeated the Qin army again. Xiang Yu and others killed Li You again. Therefore, Xiang Liang despised the Qin army more and more and looked arrogant.
Song Yi advised Xiang Liang: If you win a battle but your generals are arrogant and your soldiers are lazy, you will lose.
Now the soldiers are a little slack and the number of Qin soldiers is increasing day by day. I am worried about you.
Xiang Liang did not listen to the advice.
So he sent Song Yi as envoy to Qi.
On the way, I met Gaoling Junxian, the envoy of Qi State, and asked him: Are you going to see Mr. Wu Xin?
Answer: Yes.
Song Yi said: I conclude that Lord Wu Xin's army must have failed.
If you walk slowly you will avoid death, if you walk fast you will suffer disaster.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
秦果悉起兵益章邯，击楚军，大破之定陶，项梁死。
沛公、项羽去外黄攻陈留，陈留坚守不能下。
沛公、项羽相与谋曰： 今项梁军破，士卒恐。
乃与吕臣军俱引兵而东。
吕臣军彭城东，项羽军彭城西，沛公军砀。
章邯已破项梁军，则以为楚地兵不足忧，乃渡河击赵，大破之。
当此时，赵歇为王，陈馀为将，张耳为相，皆走入钜鹿城。
章邯令王离、涉间围钜鹿，章邯军其南，筑甬道而输之粟。
陈馀为将，将卒数万人而军钜鹿之北，此所谓河北之军也。
楚兵已破於定陶，怀王恐，从盱台之彭城，并项羽、吕臣军自将之。
以吕臣为司徒，以其父吕青为令尹。
以沛公为砀郡长，封为武安侯，将砀郡兵。
初，宋义所遇齐使者高陵君显在楚军，见楚王曰： 宋义论武信君之军必败，居数日，军果败。
translation: 
Qin Guoran mobilized all its troops to reinforce Zhang Han, attacked the Chu army, and defeated the Chu army in Dingtao. Xiang Liang died in the battle.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu left Waihuang to attack Chenliu, but Chenliu was entrenched and could not capture it.
Pei Gong and Xiang Yu discussed with each other: Now Xiang Liang's army has collapsed and the soldiers are afraid.
So he led his troops and marched eastward with Lu Chen's army.
Lu Chen was stationed to the east of Pengcheng, Xiang Yu was stationed to the west of Pengcheng, and Peigong was stationed in Dang.
Zhang Han had already defeated Xiang Liang's army and thought that Chu's enemies no longer had to worry, so he crossed the Yellow River to attack Zhao and defeated the Zhao army.
At this time, Zhao Xie was the king of Zhao, Chen Yu was the general, and Zhang Er was the prime minister, and they all ran into Julu City.
Zhang Han ordered Wang Li and Shejian to besiege Julu. Zhang Han stationed himself to the south of Julu and built tunnels to transport food to Wang Li and Shejian's army.
As a general, Chen Yu led tens of thousands of soldiers to station in the north of Julu. This was the so-called Hebei Army.
The Chu army was defeated in Dingtao. King Chu Huai was very frightened and went from Xutai to Pengcheng, where he merged with the armies of Xiang Yu and Lu Chen and led them personally.
Lu Chen was appointed as Situ, and his father Ye Qing was appointed as Ling Yin.
He appointed Pei Gong as the governor of Dang County and was granted the title of Marquis of Wu'an, commanding the army of Dang County.
The Qi envoy Gaoling Junxian whom Song Yi met before was still in the Chu army. When he met King Huai of Chu, he said: Song Yi concluded that Wu Xinjun's army must have failed. After a few days, his army did indeed fail.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
兵未战而先见败徵，此可谓知兵矣。
王召宋义与计事而大说之，因置以为上将军，项羽为鲁公，为次将，范增为末将，救赵。
诸别将皆属宋义，号为卿子冠军。
行至安阳，留四十六日不进。
项羽曰： 吾闻秦军围赵王钜鹿，疾引兵渡河，楚击其外，赵应其内，破秦军必矣。 宋义曰： 不然。
夫搏牛之虻不可以破虮虱。今秦攻赵，战胜则兵罢，我承其敝；不胜，则我引兵鼓行而西，必举秦矣。
故不如先斗秦赵。
夫被坚执锐，义不如公；坐而运策，公不如义。
因下令军中曰： 猛如虎，很如羊，贪如狼，彊不可使者，皆斩之。
乃遣其子宋襄相齐，身送之至无盐，饮酒高会。
天寒大雨，士卒冻饥。
translation: 
An army that sees signs of defeat before starting a war can be said to understand military affairs.
King Huai of Chu summoned Song Yi and discussed the matter with him. He was very happy, so he appointed Xiang Yu as the top general, Xiang Yu as the Duke of Lu, as the second general, and Fan Zeng as the last general, to rescue Zhao.
All the other generals belong to Song Yi, and Song Yi is called the Champion of Qingzi.
He walked to Anyang and stayed for forty-six days without moving forward.
Xiang Yu said: I heard that the Qin army surrounded King Zhao at Julu. I quickly led the troops across the river. The Chu army attacked from the outside and the Zhao army responded from the inside. I will definitely defeat the Qin army. Song Yi said: No.
A gadfly that bites a cow cannot harm a louse. Now the Qin army attacks the Zhao army. If they win, they will be exhausted. We will take advantage of the Qin army's exhaustion. If we cannot win, we will lead the army to march westward with drums beating. We will definitely defeat the Qin army.
So it is better to let Qin and Zhao fight each other first.
Wearing armor, holding sharp weapons in hand, charging into battle, Song Yi is not as good as you; sitting down to make plans, you are not as good as Song Yi.
Therefore, an order was issued to the army: Anyone who is as fierce as a tiger, as ruthless as a sheep, as greedy as a wolf, and who is stubborn and disobeys orders will be beheaded.
Song Yi also sent his son Song Xiang to assist the state of Qi, and personally sent him to Wuyan, where he held a banquet with wine and gathered guests.
It was cold and raining heavily, and the soldiers were freezing and hungry.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
项羽曰： 将戮力而攻秦，久留不行。
今岁饥民贫，士卒食芋菽，军无见粮，乃饮酒高会，不引兵渡河因赵食，与赵并力攻秦，乃曰 承其敝 。
夫以秦之彊，攻新造之赵，其势必举赵。
赵举而秦彊，何敝之承！
且国兵新破，王坐不安席，埽境内而专属於将军，国家安危，在此一举。
今不恤士卒而徇其私，非社稷之臣。
项羽晨朝上将军宋义，即其帐中斩宋义头，出令军中曰： 宋义与齐谋反楚，楚王阴令羽诛之。
当是时，诸将皆慴服，莫敢枝梧。
皆曰： 首立楚者，将军家也。
今将军诛乱。
乃相与共立羽为假上将军。
使人追宋义子，及之齐，杀之。
使桓楚报命於怀王。
怀王因使项羽为上将军，当阳君、蒲将军皆属项羽。
translation: 
Xiang Yu said: Originally, we planned to attack Qin together, but we stopped for a long time.
Nowadays, there is famine and hunger, and the people are poor. The soldiers can only eat half a liter of beans, and there is no food in the army. However, Song Yi still holds banquets and receives guests. Instead of leading the army across the river to take Zhao's food on the spot, he says "wait for the Qin army to be exhausted."
With Qin's powerful troops attacking the newly established Zhao State, the result of the development of the situation must be that the Qin army defeats the Zhao army.
Zhao's army was defeated, and Qin's army was stronger. What opportunity could there be to take advantage of exhaustion!
Moreover, the Chu army had been defeated recently, and the king was restless, so he concentrated all the troops in the country under the general's command. The safety of the country was at stake.
Nowadays, we do not care about the soldiers, but only seek selfish interests. This is not a minister who shares the same interests with the country.
Xiang Yu met General Song Yi in the morning, cut off Song Yi's head in his tent, and came out to give orders to the army: Song Yi and Qi State conspired against Chu, and the King of Chu secretly ordered me to kill him.
At this time, the generals were all afraid and surrendered, and no one dared to resist.
It is said that the generals and their families founded the State of Chu.
Now it was the general who executed the rebels again.
The generals jointly elected Xiang Yu as acting general.
He sent people to chase Song Yi's son, and caught up with him in Qi State and killed him.
Xiang Yu sent Huan Chu to report to King Huai of Chu.
King Huai of Chu made Xiang Yu the general, and both Dangyang Jun and General Pu belonged to Xiang Yu.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
项羽已杀卿子冠军，威震楚国，名闻诸侯。乃遣当阳君、蒲将军将卒二万渡河，救钜鹿。
战少利，陈馀复请兵。
项羽乃悉引兵渡河，皆沉船，破釜甑，烧庐舍，持三日粮，以示士卒必死，无一还心。
於是至则围王离，与秦军遇，九战，绝其甬道，大破之，杀苏角，虏王离。
涉间不降楚，自烧杀。
当是时，楚兵冠诸侯。
诸侯军救钜鹿下者十馀壁，莫敢纵兵。
及楚击秦，诸将皆从壁上观。
楚战士无不一以当十，楚兵呼声动天，诸侯军无不人人惴恐。
於是已破秦军，项羽召见诸侯将，入辕门，无不膝行而前，莫敢仰视。
项羽由是始为诸侯上将军，诸侯皆属焉。
章邯军棘原，项羽军漳南，相持未战。
秦军数卻，二世使人让章邯。
章邯恐，使长史欣请事。
至咸阳，留司马门三日，赵高不见，有不信之心。
长史欣恐，还走其军，不敢出故道，赵高果使人追之，不及。
欣至军，报曰： 赵高用事於中，下无可为者。
今战能胜，高必疾妒吾功；战不能胜，不免於死。
translation: 
Xiang Yu had killed the champion of Qingzi, which shocked the Chu country and became famous among the princes. He sent Lord Dangyang and General Pu to lead 20,000 soldiers across the river to rescue Julu.
After the war was somewhat successful, Chen Yu asked Xiang Yu for more troops.
Xiang Yu led his entire army across the river, scuttled the ships, smashed the cooking utensils, burned the camps, and carried three days of rations to show that the soldiers fought to the death and no one had any intention of coming back alive.
As soon as the army arrived, they surrounded Wang Li, encountered the Qin army, fought nine battles, cut off the Qin army's corridors, and defeated the Qin army. Killed Su Jiao and captured Wang Li.
Shejian refused to surrender to the Chu army and burned himself to death.
At that time, the Chu army was famous among the princes.
At that time, the various princes who came to rescue Zhao had more than a dozen large camps, but they did not dare to send troops easily.
When the Chu army attacked, the princes and generals were watching the battle on the camp.
The soldiers of the Chu army were all equal to ten. The shouts of the Chu soldiers shook the sky, and the soldiers of the princes were frightened.
Having defeated the Qin army, Xiang Yu summoned all the princes and generals. They entered the camp gate and walked forward on their knees, not daring to look up.
From then on, Xiang Yu became the general of the princes' armies, and all the princes surrendered to him.
Zhang Han was stationed at Jiyuan and Xiang Yu was stationed at the south bank of Zhangshui River. The two armies were in a stalemate and there was no fighting.
The Qin army retreated many times, and the Second Emperor sent someone to punish Zhang Han.
Zhang Han was frightened and sent Chief Shi Simaxin to ask for instructions.
When he arrived in Xianyang, he waited outside the door for three days. Zhao Gao did not receive him, which was a sign of distrust.
Chief Shi Sima Xin was frightened and hurriedly fled back to the army. He didn't dare to take the original route. As expected, Zhao Gao sent people to chase him, but he failed to catch up.
Sima Xin arrived in the army and reported to Zhang Han: Zhao Gao has great power in the DPRK, and the people below cannot make a difference.
Now that the battle can be won, Zhao Gao must be jealous of our achievements; if the battle cannot be won, he will inevitably be executed.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
原将军孰计之。
陈馀亦遗章邯书曰： 白起为秦将，南征鄢郢，北阬马服，攻城略地，不可胜计，而竟赐死。
蒙恬为秦将，北逐戎人，开榆中地数千里，竟斩阳周。
何者？
功多，秦不能尽封，因以法诛之。
今将军为秦将三岁矣，所亡失以十万数，而诸侯并起滋益多。
彼赵高素谀日久，今事急，亦恐二世诛之，故欲以法诛将军以塞责，使人更代将军以脱其祸。
夫将军居外久，多内卻，有功亦诛，无功亦诛。
且天之亡秦，无愚智皆知之。
今将军内不能直谏，外为亡国将，孤特独立而欲常存，岂不哀哉！
将军何不还兵与诸侯为从，约共攻秦，分王其地，南面称孤；此孰与身伏鈇质，妻子为僇乎？
translation: 
I hope the general will think this through.
Chen Yu also sent a letter to Zhang Han saying: Bai Qi was the general of Qin. He attacked Yan and Ying to the south, killed horses and soldiers to the north, attacked the city and lost ground. He was countless, and in the end he was killed.
Meng Tian was a Qin general who drove the Xiongnu from the north and opened up an area of ​​thousands of miles in Yuzhong. He was eventually killed in Yangzhou.
Why?
There was too much merit, and Qin could not grant titles according to merit, so it used national laws to kill them.
Now that the general has been the general of Qin for three years, he has lost hundreds of thousands of soldiers, and the princes' armies have risen at the same time, increasing their numbers.
That Zhao Gao has always been flattering for a long time. Now the situation is critical, and he is afraid that the second generation will kill him, so he plans to use the national law to kill the general to shirk his responsibility, and to send someone from outside to replace the general to get rid of the disaster.
The general has been away for a long time, and many people in the court are alienated from you. Even if you have merit, you will be killed, and if you have no merit, you will be killed.
Besides, Qin is going to be destroyed, and both the stupid and the smart people know it.
Nowadays, the general cannot express his opinions directly at home, but outside he is the general of a country that is about to perish. He is isolated and helpless and wants to stay for a long time. Isn't it sad?
Why don't the general defect and join forces with various princes, sign a peace treaty, jointly attack Qin, cede the land to the king, sit facing south, and claim to be a lonely Taoist and a widower? Which one is better, or to be killed on the anvil and have his wife killed?


Chunk 10: 
original: 
章邯狐疑，阴使候始成使项羽，欲约。
约未成，项羽使蒲将军日夜引兵度三户，军漳南，与秦战，再破之。
项羽悉引兵击秦军汙水上，大破之。
章邯使人见项羽，欲约。
项羽召军吏谋曰： 粮少，欲听其约。
军吏皆曰： 善。
项羽乃与期洹水南殷虚上。
已盟，章邯见项羽而流涕，为言赵高。
项羽乃立章邯为雍王，置楚军中。
使长史欣为上将军，将秦军为前行。
到新安。
诸侯吏卒异时故繇使屯戍过秦中，秦中吏卒遇之多无状，及秦军降诸侯，诸侯吏卒乘胜多奴虏使之，轻折辱秦吏卒。
秦吏卒多窃言曰： 章将军等诈吾属降诸侯，今能入关破秦，大善；即不能，诸侯虏吾属而东，秦必尽诛吾父母妻子。
诸侯微闻其计，以告项羽。
项羽乃召黥布、蒲将军计曰： 秦吏卒尚众，其心不服，至关中不听，事必危，不如击杀之，而独与章邯、长史欣、都尉翳入秦。
於是楚军夜击阬秦卒二十馀万人新安城南。
行略定秦地。
函谷关有兵守关，不得入。
又闻沛公已破咸阳，项羽大怒，使当阳君等击关。
项羽遂入，至于戏西。
沛公军霸上，未得与项羽相见。
沛公左司马曹无伤使人言於项羽曰： 沛公欲王关中，使子婴为相，珍宝尽有之。
项羽大怒，曰： 旦日飨士卒，为击破沛公军！
当是时，项羽兵四十万，在新丰鸿门，沛公兵十万，在霸上。
范增说项羽曰： 沛公居山东时，贪於财货，好美姬。
translation: 
Zhang Han hesitated and secretly sent military commander Shicheng to Xiang Yu's camp to sign a peace treaty.
The peace treaty was not negotiated, so Xiang Yu asked General Pu to lead his troops across Sanhujin day and night, camped on the south bank of Zhang River, fought with the Qin army, and defeated the Qin army again.
Xiang Yu led the entire army to attack the Qin army on the sewage, and defeated the Qin army.
Zhang Han sent people to see Xiang Yu and planned to make a peace treaty.
Xiang Yu summoned the military officials to discuss: The army is short of food and wants to allow him to sign a peace treaty.
All the military officers said, "Okay."
Xiang Yu and Zhang Han made an appointment to meet at the Yin Ruins on the south bank of Huan River.
The alliance had been concluded. When Zhang Han saw Xiang Yu, he broke down in tears and told Xiang Yu all the deeds of Zhao Gao.
Xiang Yu then appointed Zhang Han as King Yong and placed him in the Chu army camp.
The envoy commander Shi Sima Xin was appointed as the general and led the Qin army as the advance force.
The army arrived at Xin'an.
The officers and soldiers of the princes' armies had previously passed through Guanzhong because of their corvee service and guarding the border areas. The Qin soldiers often insulted them. When the Qin army surrendered to the princes' army, the officers and soldiers of the princes' army took advantage of the victory in the war and treated them like slaves and prisoners, torturing and humiliating the Qin officers and soldiers at will.
Most of the Qin officers and soldiers discussed privately: General Zhang and others deceived us into surrendering to the princes' armies. Now we can enter the pass and defeat Qin, which is good; if we can't, the princes' troops will capture us and go eastward; Qin will definitely put our parents and wives to death.
The generals of the princes' armies secretly heard their plan and reported it to Xiang Yu.
Xiang Yu went to Generals Ying Bu and Pu to discuss: There were still many Qin officers and soldiers, and they were dissatisfied. If they did not obey orders when they arrived at Guanzhong, things would be in danger. It would be better to kill them, and only enter Qin with Zhang Han, Chang Shi Sima Xin, and Captain Dong Yi.
So the Chu army executed more than 200,000 Qin soldiers at night and buried them in the south of Xin'an City.
Xiang Yu is about to capture the Qin Guanzhong area.
Hangu Pass is guarded by soldiers and cannot enter.
When he heard that Pei Gong had conquered Xianyang, Xiang Yu was furious and sent Dangyang Lord and others to attack the pass.
Xiang Yu then entered Hangu Pass and reached the west bank of the water.
Pei Gong garrisoned Ba Shang, but was unable to meet Xiang Yu.
Cao Wushang, the minister on the left of Pei Gong, sent someone to tell Xiang Yu: Pei Gong wants to claim the title of King of Guanzhong, make Ziying his prime minister, and possess all the treasures.
Xiang Yu was so angry that he said: "Tomorrow morning, if we feast our soldiers, we will defeat Pei Gong's army!"
At this time, Xiang Yu had 400,000 troops stationed at Xinfenghongmen, and Peigong had 100,000 troops stationed at Bashang.
Fan Zeng advised Xiang Yu: When Pei Gong was in Shandong, he was greedy for money, lustful and fond of beautiful women.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
今入关，财物无所取，妇女无所幸，此其志不在小。
吾令人望其气，皆为龙虎，成五采，此天子气也。
急击勿失。
楚左尹项伯者，项羽季父也，素善留侯张良。
张良是时从沛公，项伯乃夜驰之沛公军，私见张良，具告以事，欲呼张良与俱去。
曰： 毋从俱死也。
张良曰： 臣为韩王送沛公，沛公今事有急，亡去不义，不可不语。
良乃入，具告沛公。
沛公大惊，曰： 为之柰何？
张良曰： 谁为大王为此计者？
曰： 鲰生说我曰 距关，毋内诸侯，秦地可尽王也 。
故听之。
良曰： 料大王士卒足以当项王乎？
沛公默然，曰： 固不如也，且为之柰何？
张良曰： 请往谓项伯，言沛公不敢背项王也。
沛公曰： 君安与项伯有故？
张良曰： 秦时与臣游，项伯杀人，臣活之。
今事有急，故幸来告良。
translation: 
Now that he has entered the pass, he does not accept property or get close to women. From this, it seems that his ambition is not small.
I asked people to observe the clouds in the sky above him. They were all shaped like dragons and tigers, and were colorful. This was the spirit of the emperor.
Attack quickly and don't miss the chance.
Xiang Bo, Zuo Yin of the Chu State, was Xiang Yu's uncle and had always been friendly with Liu Hou Zhang Liang.
Zhang Liang was following Pei Gong at this time, and Xiang Bo rode to Pei Gong's camp at night. He met Zhang Liang in private, told what happened, and planned to ask Zhang Liang to leave with him.
He said: Don't die with them.
Zhang Liang said: I was ordered by the King of Han to escort Pei Gong. Now that Pei Gong is encountered, it would be unethical to escape, so I have to tell him.
Zhang Liang went in and told Pei Gong everything.
Pei Gong was shocked and said, "What should we do?"
Zhang Liang said: Who gave the king this idea?
Pei Gong said: A boy advised me to guard Hangu Pass and not let the princes' troops come in. I can take all the land of Qin as my own and call myself the king here.
I took him at his word.
Zhang Liang said: "Does the king think that the current military strength is enough to resist King Xiang?"
Pei Gong remained silent and said: Of course his military strength is not as good as Xiang Yu's, so what should we do?
Zhang Liang said: Please let me tell Xiang Bo that Pei Gong does not dare to betray King Xiang.
Pei Gong said: How come you have friendship with Xiang Bo?
Zhang Liang said: Before Qin destroyed the six kingdoms, Xiang Bo and I were friends. He killed someone and I saved him.
Things were in danger now, and luckily he came to tell me.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
沛公曰 孰与君少长？
良曰： 长於臣。
沛公曰 君为我呼入，吾得兄事之。
张良出，要项伯。
项伯即入见沛公。
沛公奉卮酒为寿，约为婚姻，曰： 吾入关，秋豪不敢有所近，籍吏民，封府库，而待将军。
所以遣将守关者，备他盗之出入与非常也。
日夜望将军至，岂敢反乎！
原伯具言臣之不敢倍德也。
项伯许诺。谓沛公曰： 旦日不可不蚤自来谢项王。
沛公曰： 诺。
於是项伯复夜去，至军中，具以沛公言报项王。
因言曰： 沛公不先破关中，公岂敢入乎？
今人有大功而击之，不义也，不如因善遇之。
项王许诺。
沛公旦日从百馀骑来见项王，至鸿门，谢曰： 臣与将军戮力而攻秦，将军战河北，臣战河南，然不自意能先入关破秦，得复见将军於此。
今者有小人之言，令将军与臣有卻。
项王曰： 此沛公左司马曹无伤言之；不然，籍何以至此。
项王即日因留沛公与饮。
translation: 
Pei Gong said: Who is older than you, Xiang Bo?
Who is younger? Zhang Liang said: He is older than me.
Pei Gong said: "You call him in for me. I will treat him like an elder brother."
Zhang Liang came out and invited Xiang Bo.
Xiang Bo went in to see Pei Gong.
Pei Gong raised a glass to Xiang Bo and made a toast to his children's relatives. Pei Gong said: When I entered the pass, I did not dare to have any interests in it. I made a register to register the officials and people, sealed up the treasury, and waited for the general.
Therefore, the purpose of sending generals to guard the pass is to prevent other thieves from coming in and out and unexpected incidents.
I look forward to the arrival of the general day and night, how dare I rebel!
Please explain to the general in detail that I dare not be ungrateful.
Xiang Bo agreed and said to Pei Gong: "You must come early tomorrow morning to apologize to King Xiang."
Pei Gong said: OK.
So Xiang Bo left that night, returned to the army, and reported to King Xiang exactly what Pei Gong said.
Then he said to Xiang Yu: "If Pei Gong doesn't attack Guanzhong first, how dare you come in?"
Nowadays, it is unethical to attack someone who has made great achievements. It is better to treat him kindly.
King Xiang agreed.
The next morning, Pei Gong brought more than a hundred cavalry to see King Xiang. When he arrived at Hongmen, he apologized to Xiang Yu and said: The general and I attacked Qin together. The general fought in Hebei and I fought in Henan. However, I myself did not expect to enter the pass first and conquer Qin, so that I could see the general here again.
Now there is a villain's words, which creates a gap between the general and me.
King Xiang said: This is what Cao Wushang, your Sima of Pei Gong, said, otherwise, why would I be like this?
King Xiang stayed with Pei Gong to drink with him that day.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
项王、项伯东向坐。亚父南乡坐。
亚父者，范增也。
沛公北乡坐，张良西乡侍。
范增数目项王，举所佩玉玦以示之者三，项王默然不应。
范增起，出召项庄，谓曰： 君王为人不忍，若入前为寿，寿毕，请以剑舞，因击沛公於坐，杀之。
不者，若属皆且为所虏。
庄则入为寿，寿毕，曰： 君王与沛公饮，军中无以为乐，请以剑舞。 项王曰： 诺。
项庄拔剑起舞，项伯亦拔剑起舞，常以身翼蔽沛公，庄不得击。
於是张良至军门，见樊哙。
樊哙曰： 今日之事何如？
良曰： 甚急。
今者项庄拔剑舞，其意常在沛公也。
哙曰： 此迫矣，臣请入，与之同命。
哙即带剑拥盾入军门。
交戟之卫士欲止不内，樊哙侧其盾以撞，卫士仆地，哙遂入，披帷西乡立，瞋目视项王，头发上指，目眦尽裂。
项王按剑而跽曰： 客何为者？
张良曰： 沛公之参乘樊哙者也。
translation: 
King Xiang and Bo Xiang sat facing east, and Yafu sat facing south.
Yafu is Fan Zeng.
Pei Gong sat facing north, and Zhang Liang sat facing west.
Fan Zeng winked at King Xiang many times and repeatedly raised his jade ornaments to signal to King Xiang, but King Xiang responded silently.
Fan Zeng got up and went out to find Xiang Zhuang and said to him: "The king is not ruthless. You go in and propose a toast. After the toast is finished, he asks for a sword dance and takes the opportunity to attack Pei Gong in his seat and kill him."
Otherwise, all of you will be captured by him.
Xiang Zhuang went in to toast. After the toast, he said: "The king and Pei Gong are drinking. There is nothing for entertainment in the army. Please allow me to dance with my sword to help." King Xiang said: OK.
Xiang Zhuang drew his sword and danced. Xiang Bo also drew his sword and danced. Xiang Bo often used his body to cover Pei Gong, so Xiang Zhuang did not get the opportunity to assassinate him.
At this time, Zhang Liang came to the military gate and summoned Fan Kuai.
Fan Kuai said: How are things going today?
Zhang Liang said: It is extremely critical.
At this moment, Xiang Zhuang was dancing with his sword, and his intention was always on Pei Gong.
Fan Kuai said: "This is urgent. Please let me in and live and die with Pei Gong."
Fan Kuai immediately entered the military gate with his sword and shield in his hand.
The guard guarding the gate of Jiaogan tried to stop him from entering, but Fan Kuai hit him with his shield, causing the guard to fall to the ground. Fan Kuai entered the big tent, opened the curtain, stood facing west, looked at King Xiang with wide, angry eyes, his hair pointing up, and his eyes broken.
King Xiang straightened his upper body with his sword in his hand and said, "What are the guests here for?"
Zhang Liang said: This is Pei Gong's chariot, Fan Kuai.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
项王曰： 壮士，赐之卮酒。
则与斗卮酒。
哙拜谢，起，立而饮之。
项王曰： 壮士，能复饮乎？
樊哙曰： 臣死且不避，卮酒安足辞！
夫秦王有虎狼之心，杀人如不能举，刑人如恐不胜，天下皆叛之。
怀王与诸将约曰 先破秦入咸阳者王之 。
今沛公先破秦入咸阳，豪毛不敢有所近，封闭宫室，还军霸上，以待大王来。
故遣将守关者，备他盗出入与非常也。
劳苦而功高如此，未有封侯之赏，而听细说，欲诛有功之人。
此亡秦之续耳，窃为大王不取也。
项王未有以应，曰： 坐。
樊哙从良坐。
坐须臾，沛公起如厕，因招樊哙出。
沛公已出，项王使都尉陈平召沛公。
translation: 
King Xiang said: Strong man! Give him a glass of wine.
Give him a large glass of wine.
Fan Kuai thanked him and stood up, drinking it all in one gulp.
King Xiang said: Give him pig legs as a reward. There is a pig leg on the left and right.
Fan Kuai laid his shield on the ground, put the pig's leg on the shield, drew his sword and cut the meat into pieces. King Xiang said: Strong man! Can I drink alcohol again? Fan Kuai said: I am not afraid of death. How can I refuse a glass of wine!
The King of Qin has the heart of a tiger and a wolf. He kills people for fear that he will not be able to kill them all, and uses punishments for fear that the punishment will not be severe, so that everyone in the world will rebel against him.
King Huai of Chu and his generals agreed that the one who conquered Qin first and entered Xianyang would be the king of Guanzhong.
Now that Pei Gong had conquered Qin and entered Xianyang, he did not dare to get close to him for the slightest benefit. He closed the palace and returned to the army to wait for the arrival of the king.
Therefore, generals are sent to guard the pass to guard against other thieves and accidents.
You have worked so hard and achieved great results, but you have not been rewarded by the title, but you listen to gossip and want to kill the meritorious people.
This is the path inherited from the destroyed Qin Dynasty. I personally think that it is not advisable for the king to do this.
King Xiang had no words to reply, only said: Sit down.
Fan Kuai sat down next to Zhang Liang.
After sitting for a while, Pei Gong got up to go to the toilet and took the opportunity to call Fan Kuai out.
After Pei Gong left, King Xiang sent his captain Chen Ping to call Pei Gong back.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
沛公曰： 今者出，未辞也，为之柰何？
樊哙曰： 大行不顾细谨，大礼不辞小让。
如今人方为刀俎，我为鱼肉，何辞为。
於是遂去。
乃令张良留谢。
良问曰： 大王来何操？
曰： 我持白璧一双，欲献项王，玉斗一双，欲与亚父，会其怒，不敢献。
公为我献之 张良曰： 谨诺。
当是时，项王军在鸿门下，沛公军在霸上，相去四十里。
沛公则置车骑，脱身独骑，与樊哙、夏侯婴、靳彊、纪信等四人持剑盾步走，从郦山下，道芷阳间行。
沛公谓张良曰： 从此道至吾军，不过二十里耳。
谨使臣良奉白璧一双，再拜献大王足下；玉斗一双，再拜奉大将军足下。 项王曰： 沛公安在？
良曰： 闻大王有意督过之，脱身独去，已至军矣。
项王则受璧，置之坐上。
亚父受玉斗，置之地，拔剑撞而破之，曰： 唉！
竖子不足与谋。
translation: 
Pei Gong said: "We are going out now without saying goodbye. What should we do?"
Fan Kuai said: Don't worry about the details when doing big things, don't pay attention to small humility when doing great gifts.
Nowadays, others are just swordsmen and we are fish and meat, so why say goodbye?
So he left without saying goodbye.
Pei Gong asked Zhang Liang to stay and thank him.
Zhang Liang asked: What did the king bring when he came?
Pei Gong said: I brought a pair of white walls to present to King Xiang, and a pair of jade buckets to give to Yafu, but they were angry and did not dare to offer them.
Give it to them for me. Zhang Liang said: "I obey."
At that time, King Xiang's army was at Hongmen and Pei Gong's army was at Bashang, which was forty miles away from each other.
Peigong abandoned his chariot and escaped on horseback. Fan Kuai, Xia Houying, Jin Jiang, and Ji Xin walked on foot, holding swords and shields, and took the path from Lishan to Zhiyang, copying the path.
Pei Gong said to Zhang Liang: From this road to our military camp, it is only twenty miles.
I guess you can go in after I get to the army. After Pei Gong left, Zhang Liang estimated that Pei Gong had taken a small road and reached the army, so he went in to thank him and said: "Pei Gong can't bear the cup, so he can't come to say goodbye in person." I would like to ask Zhang Liang to offer a white wall to the king and a jade bucket to the general. Xiang Yu said: Where is Pei Gong?
Zhang Liang said: I heard that the king wanted to blame him, so he escaped alone and returned to the army.
King Xiang took the king's wall and placed it on the table.
Yafu took the jade bucket, put it on the ground, drew his sword and struck it to pieces, saying: Alas!
This kid is not good enough to conspire against something big.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
夺项王天下者，必沛公也，吾属今为之虏矣。
沛公至军，立诛杀曹无伤。
居数日，项羽引兵西屠咸阳，杀秦降王子婴，烧秦宫室，火三月不灭；收其货宝妇女而东。
人或说项王曰： 关中阻山河四塞，地肥饶，可都以霸。
项王见秦宫皆以烧残破，又心怀思欲东归，曰： 富贵不归故乡，如衣绣夜行，谁知之者！
说者曰： 人言楚人沐猴而冠耳，果然。
项王闻之，烹说者。
项王使人致命怀王。
怀王曰： 如约。
乃尊怀王为义帝。
项王欲自王，先王诸将相。
谓曰： 天下初发难时，假立诸侯後以伐秦。
然身被坚执锐首事，暴露於野三年，灭秦定天下者，皆将相诸君与籍之力也。
义帝虽无功，故当分其地而王之。
诸将皆曰： 善。 乃分天下，立诸将为侯王。
项王、范增疑沛公之有天下，业已讲解，又恶负约，恐诸侯叛之，乃阴谋曰： 巴、蜀道险，秦之迁人皆居蜀。
translation: 
The one who seizes King Xiang's world must be Pei Gong, and we all will be captured by him.
When Pei Gong returned to the army, he immediately killed Cao Wushang.
A few days later, Xiang Yu led his troops to the west, slaughtered Xianyang, killed the Qin Dynasty king Ziying who had surrendered, burned the Qin Dynasty palace, and the fire did not go out for three months; he collected the Qin Dynasty's treasures and women, and led his army eastward.
Someone advised King Xiang: "Guanzhong is blocked by mountains and rivers, and is blocked on all sides. The land is fertile. We can build a capital here to establish our hegemony."
King Xiang saw that all the palaces in the Qin Dynasty were burned down and dilapidated. He missed his hometown and wanted to return eastward, so he said: If you don't return to your hometown when you are rich, you will be like walking at night with embroidered clothes. Who can know!
The person who advised King Xiang said, "People say that the people of Chu are like macaques wearing hats to pretend to be human beings, and it is true."
King Xiang heard this and killed the man who persuaded him.
King Xiang sent someone to report to King Huai of Chu for instructions.
King Huai of Chu said: We will do it as agreed.
Xiang Yu respected King Huai of Chu as the Righteous Emperor.
King Xiang wanted to claim the title of king himself, so he first made the princes, generals and ministers kings.
King Xiang said to them: When the world first rebelled, the descendants of the princes were temporarily established as kings in order to attack the Qin Dynasty.
However, I personally wore armor and held weapons, took the lead in the uprising, and slept in the open for three years, destroyed the Qin Dynasty, and brought peace to the world. It was all the strength of the generals and I, Xiang Ji.
Only the Righteous Emperor has no merit, so he should divide the land and make everyone king. The generals all said: OK.
King Xiang divided the world and made the generals princes and kings.
King Xiang and Fan Zeng suspected that Pei Gong would take over the world in the future. But since they had reconciled, they were afraid of violating the original agreement and causing the princes to rebel, so they secretly discussed: The roads between Ba and Shu are dangerous, and the sinners who were moved by the Qin Dynasty all live in Shu.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
乃曰： 巴、蜀亦关中地也。
故立沛公为汉王，王巴、蜀、汉中，都南郑。
而三分关中，王秦降将以距塞汉王。项王乃立章邯为雍王，王咸阳以西，都废丘。
长史欣者，故为栎阳狱掾，尝有德於项梁；都尉董翳者，本劝章邯降楚。故立司马欣为塞王，王咸阳以东至河，都栎阳；立董翳为翟王，王上郡，都高奴。
徙魏王豹为西魏王，王河东，都平阳。
瑕丘申阳者，张耳嬖臣也，先下河南，迎楚河上，故立申阳为河南王，都雒阳。
韩王成因故都，都阳翟。
赵将司马卬定河内，数有功，故立卬为殷王，王河内，都朝歌。
徙赵王歇为代王。
赵相张耳素贤，又从入关，故立耳为常山王，王赵地，都襄国。
当阳君黥布为楚将，常冠军，故立布为九江王，都六。
鄱君吴芮率百越佐诸侯，又从入关，故立芮为衡山王，都邾。
义帝柱国共敖将兵击南郡，功多，因立敖为临江王，都江陵。
徙燕王韩广为辽东王。
燕将臧荼从楚救赵，因从入关，故立荼为燕王，都蓟。
徙齐王田市为胶东王。
齐将田都从共救赵，因从入关，故立都为齐王，都临菑。
故秦所灭齐王建孙田安，项羽方渡河救赵，田安下济北数城，引其兵降项羽，故立安为济北王，都博阳。
translation: 
So he said: Ba and Shu are also Guanzhong areas.
Therefore, he named Pei Gong the King of Han, proclaimed himself the king of Ba, Shu, and Hanzhong, and established Nanzheng as his capital.
The Guanzhong was divided into three parts, and was granted to the Qin Dynasty's surrendered king to block the Han king. King Xiang made Zhang Han the King of Yong, proclaimed himself the king west of Xianyang, and built the capital at Feiqiu.
Sima Xin, the long history official, was the warden of Yueyang in the past and was kind to Xiang Liang. The captain Dong Yi initially persuaded Zhang Han to surrender to Chu, so he named Sima Xin the king of Sai and the area east of Xianyang to the Yellow River and established his capital in Yueyang.
He moved King Bao of Wei to the title of King of Western Wei, proclaimed himself king in Hedong, and established Pingyang as his capital.
Xiaqiu Shenyang was Zhang Er's favorite. He conquered Henan first and met the Chu army on the bank of the Yellow River. Therefore, he made Shenyang king of Henan and made his capital Luoyang.
King Cheng of Han still took the old capital as his capital and established Yangzhai as his capital.
Zhao general Sima Yin pacified Hanoi and made many military exploits, so he named Sima Yin King of Yin, proclaimed him king in Hanoi, and established Chaoge as his capital.
He only named King Zhao Xie as acting king.
Zhang Er, Prime Minister of Zhao, had always been a virtuous man, and he followed King Xiang to the Pass. Therefore, Zhang Er was granted the title of King of Changshan, proclaimed the king of Zhao, and established the capital of Xiang State.
Dangyang Jun Yingbu was a general of the Chu army, and he often defeated the entire army bravely. Therefore, he was granted the title of King of Jiujiang and established his capital in Liu Dynasty.
Wu Rui, the king of Po, led the Baiyue troops to assist the princes' troops and followed him into the pass. Therefore, Wu Rui was granted the title of King of Hengshan and established his capital in Zhu.
Gong Ao, the Zhuguo of Emperor Yi, led his troops to attack Nanjun and made great achievements, so he named Gong Ao the King of Linjiang and made Jiangling his capital.
Han Guang, the king of Yan, was moved to be the king of Liaodong.
Yan general Zang Cha once accompanied the Chu army to rescue Zhao, and then followed him into the Pass. Therefore, Zang Tu was granted the title of King of Yan and his capital was established at Ji.
He named Tianshi, the king of Qi, as the king of Jiaodong.
Qi general Tiandu once accompanied King Xiang to rescue Zhao, and then followed him into the Pass. Therefore, Tiandu was made King of Qi and his capital was Linzi.
It turned out that Tian An, the grandson of King Jian of Qi who was destroyed by the Qin Dynasty, captured several cities north of Jishui when Xiang Yu crossed the river to rescue Zhao, and led his army to surrender to Xiang Yu. Therefore, Tian An was named King of Jibei and made Boyang the capital.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
田荣者，数负项梁，又不肯将兵从楚击秦，以故不封。
成安君陈馀弃将印去，不从入关，然素闻其贤，有功於赵，闻其在南皮，故因环封三县。
番君将梅鋗功多，故封十万户侯。
项王自立为西楚霸王，王九郡，都彭城。
汉之元年四月，诸侯罢戏下，各就国。
项王出之国，使人徙义帝，曰： 古之帝者地方千里，必居上游。
乃使使徙义帝长沙郴县。
趣义帝行，其群臣稍稍背叛之，乃阴令衡山、临江王击杀之江中。
韩王成无军功，项王不使之国，与俱至彭城，废以为侯，已又杀之。
臧荼之国，因逐韩广之辽东，广弗听，荼击杀广无终，并王其地。
translation: 
Tian Rong had betrayed Xiang Liang many times and was unwilling to lead his army with Chu to attack Qin, so he was not crowned king.
Chen Yu, Lord of Cheng'an, abandoned his seal and left without any entourage. However, he had always heard that he was a virtuous man and had made great contributions to Zhao. He knew that he was in Nanpi, so he sealed the three counties surrounding Nanpi to him.
Fanjun's general Mei Tsien had many military exploits, so he was granted the title of 100,000-household lord.
King Xiang established himself as the overlord of Western Chu, granted nine counties and established his capital in Pengcheng.
In April of the first year of the Han Dynasty, the princes under the command of King Xiang Si dispersed their troops and returned to their respective feudal states.
King Xiang also left the customs and returned to his feudal state. He sent people to move to Emperor Yi, saying: In ancient times, emperors owned thousands of miles of land and had to live upstream.
So he sent envoys to move Emperor Yi to Chen County, Changsha.
King Xiang urged Emperor Yi to leave quickly, but Emperor Yi's officials gradually betrayed him. King Xiang secretly ordered the kings of Hengshan and Linjiang to kill Emperor Yi in the river.
Han Wangcheng had no military merit, and King Xiang refused to let him return to his fiefdom. They went to Pengcheng together, abolished the king's title, changed the title to a marquis, and soon killed him.
When Zang Tu arrived in the feudal state, he expelled Han Guang to Liaodong. Han Guang refused to obey. Zang Cha killed Han Guang in Wujing and took possession of his territory.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
田荣闻项羽徙齐王市胶东，而立齐将田都为齐王，乃大怒，不肯遣齐王之胶东，因以齐反，迎击田都。
田都走楚。
齐王市畏项王，乃亡之胶东就国。
田荣怒，追击杀之即墨。
荣因自立为齐王，而西杀击济北王田安，并王三齐。
荣与彭越将军印，令反梁地。
陈馀阴使张同、夏说说齐王田荣曰： 项羽为天下宰，不平。
今尽王故王於丑地，而王其群臣诸将善地，逐其故主赵王，乃北居代，馀以为不可。
闻大王起兵，且不听不义，原大王资馀兵，请以击常山，以复赵王，请以国为扞蔽。
齐王许之，因遣兵之赵。
陈馀悉发三县兵，与齐并力击常山，大破之。
张耳走归汉。
陈馀迎故赵王歇於代，反之赵。
赵王因立陈馀为代王。
是时，汉还定三秦。
项羽闻汉王皆已并关中，且东，齐、赵叛之：大怒。
乃以故吴令郑昌为韩王，以距汉。
translation: 
Tian Rong was very angry when he heard that Xiang Yu had sealed King Qi's banishment in Jiaodong and appointed Qi general Tian Du as King of Qi. He did not want King Qi to go to Jiaodong, so he rebelled against Qi and attacked Tian Du.
Tiandu fled to Chu.
Qi Gongshi was afraid of King Xiang, so he sneaked to Jiaodong to join the kingdom.
Tian Rong was very angry and sent troops to pursue him and killed him in Jimo.
Tian Rong proclaimed himself king of Qi, marched westward, killed Tian An, king of Jibei, and annexed the three Qi states.
Tian Rong awarded Peng Yue the seal of general and asked him to rebel against Chu in Liang.
Chen Yu secretly sent Zhang Tong and Xia Shuo to advise Qi King Tian Rong: Xiang Yu is the master of the world, it is unfair.
Now the original princes and kings are sealed in bad places and called kings, while his ministers and generals are all placed in good places and called kings. After driving away the original princes and kings, King Zhao went to live in the north. I thought this was unacceptable.
I heard that the king has raised troops and will not accept unjust orders. I hope that the king will help me with some troops and horses and allow me to use them to attack Changshan and restore the status of King Zhao. I am willing to use Zhao as a barrier to Qi.
The king of Qi agreed and sent troops to Zhao.
Chen Yu mobilized all the soldiers from the three counties to attack Changshan together with the Qi army, and defeated Changshan's army.
Zhang Er fled and submitted to the king of Han.
Chen Yu went to Dai to welcome the original King of Zhao when he returned to Zhao.
King Zhao made Chen Yu the acting king.
At this time, the King of Han returned to his army and put down the Three Qin Dynasties.
Xiang Yu heard that the king of Han had annexed Guanzhong and was about to march eastward. Qi and Zhao rebelled against him again, and he was very angry.
He appointed Zheng Chang, the former commander of Wu, as the king of Han to stop the Han army.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
令萧公角等击彭越。
彭越败萧公角等。
汉使张良徇韩，乃遗项王书曰： 汉王失职，欲得关中，如约即止，不敢东。
又以齐、梁反书遗项王曰： 齐欲与赵并灭楚。
楚以此故无西意，而北击齐。
徵兵九江王布。
布称疾不往，使将将数千人行。
项王由此怨布也。
汉之二年冬，项羽遂北至城阳，田荣亦将兵会战。
田荣不胜，走至平原，平原民杀之。
遂北烧夷齐城郭室屋，皆阬田荣降卒，系虏其老弱妇女。
徇齐至北海，多所残灭。
齐人相聚而叛之。
於是田荣弟田横收齐亡卒得数万人，反城阳。
项王因留，连战未能下。
春，汉王部五诸侯兵，凡五十六万人，东伐楚。
项王闻之，即令诸将击齐，而自以精兵三万人南从鲁出胡陵。
四月，汉皆已入彭城，收其货宝美人，日置酒高会。项王乃西从萧，晨击汉军而东，至彭城，日中，大破汉军。
translation: 
Order Xiao Gongjiao and others to attack Peng Yue.
Peng Yue defeated Xiao Gongjiao and others.
The King of Han sent Zhang Liang to patrol Han to pacify Han. Zhang Liang wrote to King Xiang saying: The King of Han did not get the fief position he deserved and planned to seize Guanzhong. He will stop the march after fulfilling the original agreement and dare not continue to advance eastward.
Zhang Liang also sent the rebellion proclamation of Qi and Liang to King Xiang, saying: Qi wants to join forces with Zhao to destroy Chu.
Therefore, the Chu army had no intention of advancing westward, and instead went north to attack Qi.
King Xiang asked King Yingbu of Jiujiang to recruit troops.
Yingbu said that he was ill and could not go away, so he sent his generals and thousands of troops to go.
King Xiang resented Ting Bu from then on.
In the winter of the second year of Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu went north to Chengyang, and Tian Rong also led his army to fight Xiang Yu here.
Tian Rong was defeated and fled to Pingyuan, where the people of Pingyuan killed him.
The Chu army marched northward, burning down the houses of Qi State, razing Qi State's city walls, trapping and killing Tian Rong's soldiers, and plundering old and weak women.
In Qi, they captured cities and territories as far as Beihai, burning, killing and plundering everywhere.
The people of Qi united to resist Xiang Yu.
Tian Rong's younger brother Tian Heng collected the soldiers who had fled from Qi State and gained tens of thousands of soldiers, and rebelled against Chengyang.
King Xiang therefore stayed and attacked Chengyang several times but failed to capture it.
In the spring, the King of Han led an army of five princes, totaling 560,000 men, to march eastward to attack Chu.
When King Xiang heard the news, he immediately ordered his generals to attack Qi, and he led 30,000 elite soldiers southward and crossed Huling from Lu.
In April, the Han army entered Pengcheng, plundered property, treasures and beauties, and held banquets every day. King Xiang marched westward and arrived at Xiao County. He attacked the Han army in the morning, marched eastward and arrived at Pengcheng. At noon, he defeated the Han army.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
汉军皆走，相随入穀、泗水，杀汉卒十馀万人。
汉卒皆南走山，楚又追击至灵壁东睢水上。
汉军卻，为楚所挤，多杀，汉卒十馀万人皆入睢水，睢水为之不流。
围汉王三匝。
於是大风从西北而起，折木发屋，扬沙石，窈冥昼晦，逢迎楚军。
楚军大乱，坏散，而汉王乃得与数十骑遁去，欲过沛，收家室而西；楚亦使人追之沛，取汉王家：家皆亡，不与汉王相见。
汉王道逢得孝惠、鲁元，乃载行。
楚骑追汉王，汉王急，推堕孝惠、鲁元车下，滕公常下收载之。
如是者三。曰： 虽急不可以驱，柰何弃之？
於是遂得脱。
求太公、吕后不相遇。
审食其从太公、吕后间行，求汉王，反遇楚军。
楚军遂与归，报项王，项王常置军中。
是时吕后兄周吕侯为汉将兵居下邑，汉王间往从之，稍稍收其士卒。
translation: 
The Han army retreated and fled into Gushui and Sishui one after another. The Chu army killed more than 100,000 Han soldiers.
The Han army fled south into the mountains, and the Chu army pursued them to the Suishui River east of Lingbi.
The Han army retreated and was forced by the Chu army. They crowded together and many of them were killed and wounded. More than 100,000 Han troops fell into the Sui River, which stopped flowing.
The Chu army surrounded the King of Han on three levels.
At this time, strong winds blew from the northwest, blowing down trees, destroying houses, flying sand and rocks, and the sky was gloomy, rushing toward the Chu army.
The Chu army was in chaos and their formation collapsed, allowing the King of Han to escape with dozens of cavalry. The King of Han planned to pass through Peixian County to pick up his family and go westward; the Chu army also sent people to pursue Peixian County and plunder the King of Han's family members. All the family members fled and could not meet the King of Han.
The king of Han met Xiaohui and Lu Yuan on the road, so he pulled them together in his chariot.
The Chu cavalry chased the King of Han. The King of Han became anxious and pushed Xiaohui and Lu Yuan out of the car. Duke Xi got out of the car and picked them up. He pushed them down and picked them up several times.
Teng Gong said: Although the situation is critical and the car cannot go faster, my children cannot bear to abandon them!
Later, the King of Han finally escaped.
He looked for Taigong and Empress Lu, but could not find them.
Shen Shiqi followed the Taigong and Empress Lu to sneak through the alley, looking for the King of Han, but encountered the Chu army instead.
The Chu army took them back to the military camp and reported to King Xiang, who detained them in the military camp.
At this time, Empress Lu's brother Zhou Luhou was stationed in Xiayi for the Han Dynasty. The king of Han took a small road to Zhou Luhou and collected some of the escaped soldiers.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
至荥阳，诸败军皆会，萧何亦发关中老弱未傅悉诣荥阳，复大振。
楚起於彭城，常乘胜逐北，与汉战荥阳南京、索间，汉败楚，楚以故不能过荥阳而西。
项王之救彭城，追汉王至荥阳，田横亦得收齐，立田荣子广为齐王。
汉王之败彭城，诸侯皆复与楚而背汉。
汉军荥阳，筑甬道属之河，以取敖仓粟。
汉之三年，项王数侵夺汉甬道，汉王食乏，恐，请和，割荥阳以西为汉。
项王欲听之。
历阳侯范增曰： 汉易与耳，今释弗取，後必悔之。
项王乃与范增急围荥阳。
汉王患之，乃用陈平计间项王。
项王使者来，为太牢具，举欲进之。
见使者，详惊愕曰： 吾以为亚父使者，乃反项王使者。
更持去，以恶食食项王使者。
使者归报项王，项王乃疑范增与汉有私，稍夺之权。
范增大怒，曰： 天下事大定矣，君王自为之。
translation: 
When they arrived at Xingyang, the defeated armies from all walks of life gathered together. Xiao He also recruited all the old and weak who had no residence in Guanzhong and came to Xingyang, and the momentum was revived.
The Chu army set out from Pengcheng, often taking advantage of the victory to pursue defeated troops, and fought with the Han army between Jing and Suo south of Xingyang. The Han army defeated the Chu army, so the Chu army could not cross Xingyang and advance westward.
King Xiang rescued Pengcheng and chased the King of Han to Xingyang. Tian Heng took the opportunity to regain the state of Qi and made Tian Rong's son Tian Guang the king of Qi.
The king of Han was defeated in Pengcheng, and all the princes turned their backs to Chu.
The Han army was stationed in Xingyang and built a corridor connected to the Yellow River to transport grain from Aocang.
In the third year of the Han Dynasty, King Xiang repeatedly invaded the corridors of the Han army. The King of Han was short of food and panicked. He asked for peace and divided the west of Xingyang back to the Han Dynasty.
King Xiang wanted to agree to him.
Fan Zeng, Marquis of Liyang, said: The Han army is easy to deal with. If you let them go now and don't destroy them, you will regret it later.
King Xiang and Fan Zeng besieged Xingyang.
The King of Han was deeply worried, so he adopted Chen Ping's strategy to drive a wedge between King Xiang and Fan Zeng.
King Xiang's envoy came and prepared a sumptuous banquet with oxen, sheep, and food for him, intending to serve it.
The man serving the food looked at the envoy, pretended to be shocked and said, "I thought it was Yafu's envoy, but I didn't expect that it was King Xiang's envoy."
He brought the food down again and gave King Xiang's envoys some coarse vegetables and rice.
The envoy came back and reported to King Xiang. King Xiang suspected that Fan Zeng was having an affair with the Han army and gradually deprived him of his power.
Fan Zeng was furious and said: The overall situation of the world has been decided, and the king can take care of himself.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
原赐骸骨归卒伍。
项王许之。
行未至彭城，疽发背而死。
汉将纪信说汉王曰： 事已急矣，请为王诳楚为王，王可以间出。
於是汉王夜出女子荥阳东门被甲二千人，楚兵四面击之。
纪信乘黄屋车，傅左纛，曰： 城中食尽，汉王降。
楚军皆呼万岁。
汉王亦与数十骑从城西门出，走成皋。
项王见纪信，问： 汉王安在？
曰： 汉王已出矣。
项王烧杀纪信。
汉王使御史大夫周苛、枞公、魏豹守荥阳。
周苛、枞公谋曰： 反国之王，难与守城。
乃共杀魏豹。
楚下荥阳城，生得周苛。
项王谓周苛曰： 为我将，我以公为上将军，封三万户。
周苛骂曰： 若不趣降汉，汉今虏若，若非汉敌也。
项王怒，烹周苛，井杀枞公。
translation: 
Please give me this old bone to take home.
King Xiang agreed to him.
Fan Zeng left, but before he reached Pengcheng, he died of malignant sores on his back.
Ji Xin, the general of the Han army, advised the King of Han: The situation is already very critical. Please let me pretend to be the king and deceive the Chu army for you. The king can take the opportunity to escape from the city.
So the king of Han released two thousand women in armor from the east gate of Xingyang at night, and the Chu army surrounded them on all sides.
Ji Xin rode a yellow-house chariot with a large banner erected on the scale on the left, saying: The food in the city has been exhausted, and the king of Han surrenders.
The Chu army all shouted long live.
The King of Han and dozens of cavalry left the city from the west gate and rushed towards Cheng Gao.
King Xiang saw Ji Xin and asked him: Where is the King of Han?
Ji Xin said: The king of Han has left the city.
King Xiang burned Ji Xin to death.
The king of Han sent the censors Zhou Ke, Cong Gong and Wei Bao to guard Xingyang.
Zhou Ke and Song Gong discussed it and said: It is difficult for Wei Bao, a traitorous king, to defend the city together with him.
They killed Wei Bao together.
The Chu army captured Xingyang City and captured Zhou Ke alive.
King Xiang said to Zhou Ke: "Be my general. I will make you the general and grant thirty thousand households."
Zhou Ke cursed and said: "If you don't surrender to the Han army quickly, the Han army will capture you. You are no match for the Han army."
King Xiang was furious and cooked Zhou Ke to death and killed Duke Cong.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
汉王之出荥阳，南走宛、叶，得九江王布，行收兵，复入保成皋。
汉之四年，项王进兵围成皋。
汉王逃，独与滕公出成皋北门，渡河走脩武，从张耳、韩信军。
诸将稍稍得出成皋，从汉王。
楚遂拔成皋，欲西。
汉使兵距之巩，令其不得西。
是时，彭越渡河击楚东阿，杀楚将军薛公。
项王乃自东击彭越。
汉王得淮阴侯兵，欲渡河南。郑忠说汉王，乃止壁河内。
使刘贾将兵佐彭越，烧楚积聚。
项王东击破之，走彭越。
汉王则引兵渡河，复取成皋，军广武，就敖仓食。
项王已定东海来，西，与汉俱临广武而军，相守数月。
当此时，彭越数反梁地，绝楚粮食，项王患之。
translation: 
The king of Han escaped from Xingyang, went south to Wan and Ye, and conquered Jiujiang king Yingbu. He collected soldiers as he went, and then entered Chenggao to defend.
In the fourth year of the Han Dynasty, King Xiang besieged Chenggao.
The King of Han fled, and alone with Teng Gong, they left the north gate of Chenggao, crossed the river and rushed to Xiuwu, arriving at Zhang Er and Han Xin's military camp.
The generals fled Chenggao one after another and followed the King of Han.
The Chu army captured Chenggao and wanted to march westward.
The king of Han sent troops to block the attack in Gong County, preventing the Chu army from advancing westward.
At this time, Peng Yue crossed the river to attack the Chu army in Dong'a and killed the Chu general Xue Gong.
King Xiang personally went east to attack Peng Yue.
The King of Han obtained the army of Huai Chuhou and planned to cross the river and go south. Zheng Zhong dissuaded the King of Han, so the King of Han stayed in the river and built a fort.
He sent Liu Jia to lead troops to coordinate with Peng Yue to burn the Chu army's grain.
King Xiang Dongjin defeated Liu Jia and Peng Yue, and Peng Yue escaped.
The king of Han led his army across the river and captured Chenggao. He stationed himself at Guangwu and ate Aocang.
King Xiang had already pacified the East China Sea, led his army back, marched westward, and stationed himself with the Han army at Guangwu, where they had a stalemate for several months.
At that time, Peng Yue repeatedly attacked the Chu army in Liang and cut off the Chu army's food supply. King Xiang was very worried.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
为高俎，置太公其上，告汉王曰： 今不急下，吾烹太公。
汉王曰： 吾与项羽俱北面受命怀王，曰 约为兄弟 ，吾翁即若翁，必欲烹而翁，则幸分我一桮羹。
项王怒，欲杀之。
项伯曰： 天下事未可知，且为天下者不顾家，虽杀之无益，祇益祸耳。
项王从之。
楚汉久相持未决，丁壮苦军旅，老弱罢转漕。
项王谓汉王曰： 天下匈匈数岁者，徒以吾两人耳，原与汉王挑战决雌雄，毋徒苦天下之民父子为也。
汉王笑谢曰： 吾宁斗智，不能斗力。
项王令壮士出挑战。
汉有善骑射者楼烦，楚挑战三合，楼烦辄射杀之。
项王大怒，乃自被甲持戟挑战。
楼烦欲射之，项王瞋目叱之，楼烦目不敢视，手不敢发，遂走还入壁，不敢复出。
汉王使人间问之，乃项王也。
汉王大惊。
於是项王乃即汉王相与临广武间而语。汉王数之，项王怒，欲一战。
汉王不听，项王伏弩射中汉王。汉王伤，走入成皋。
translation: 
He set up a tall chopping board, placed the Grand Duke on it, and told the King of Han: If you don't surrender quickly, I will cook the Grand Duke to death.
The King of Han said: Xiang Yu and I are both ministers from the north. We were ordered by King Huai to become brothers. My father is your father. I must cook and kill your father. So I hope you can give me a cup of meat soup.
King Xiang was very angry and planned to kill the Grand Duke.
Xiang Bo said: "The major events in the world are unpredictable, and those who conquer the world do not care about their families. Even if you kill your grandfather, there will be no benefit, it will only increase the disaster."
King Xiang listened to Bo Xiang.
Chu and Han were in a stalemate for a long time, with no outcome yet. The young and strong worked hard in marching and fighting, while the old and weak were tired of water and land transportation.
King Xiang said to the King of Han: The world has been in turmoil for the past few years. It is just because of the two of us that we are willing to challenge you to a showdown, so as not to make the people of the world suffer in vain.
The king of Han smiled and refused, saying: I would rather fight with wits than with strength.
King Xiang asked the strong men to go out and challenge him.
There was a man named Lou Fan in the Han army who was good at horseback riding and archery. The Chu army sent warriors to challenge him three times, but Lou Fan shot them all to death.
King Xiang was furious, so he put on his armor and held a halberd and came out to challenge.
Lou Fan wanted to shoot him, but King Xiang scolded him angrily. Lou Fan did not dare to look directly, and his hands did not dare to shoot the arrow. He ran back to the camp and did not dare to come out again.
The king of Han sent people to inquire secretly, and found out that the challenger turned out to be King Xiang.
The king of Han was shocked.
So King Xiang approached the Han King's camp and talked with him across the Guangwu Stream. The King of Han listed King Xiang's crimes. King Xiang was very angry and demanded a decisive battle.
The King of Han did not agree. King Xiang's ambushed bow and crossbow hit the King of Han. The King of Han was injured and ran back to Cheng Gao.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
项王闻淮阴侯已举河北，破齐、赵，且欲击楚，乃使龙且往击之。
淮阴侯与战，骑将灌婴击之，大破楚军，杀龙且。
韩信因自立为齐王。
项王闻龙且军破，则恐，使盱台人武濊涉往说淮阴侯。
淮阴侯弗听。
是时，彭越复反，下梁地，绝楚粮。
项王乃谓海春侯大司马曹咎等曰： 谨守成皋，则汉欲挑战，慎勿与战，毋令得东而已。
我十五日必诛彭越，定梁地，复从将军。
乃东，行击陈留、外黄。
外黄不下。
数日，已降，项王怒，悉令男子年十五已上诣城东，欲阬之。外黄令舍人兒年十三，往说项王曰： 彭越彊劫外黄，外黄恐，故且降，待大王。
大王至，又皆阬之，百姓岂有归心？
从此以东，梁地十馀城皆恐，莫肯下矣。
项王然其言，乃赦外黄当阬者。
东至睢阳，闻之皆争下项王。
translation: 
King Xiang heard that the Marquis of Huaiyin had captured Hebei, defeated the Qi and Zhao armies, and was about to attack the Chu army, so he sent Long Qie to meet him.
The Marquis of Huaiyin fought with Long Qie, and the cavalry general Guan Ying also attacked Long Qie, defeated the Chu army and killed Long Qie.
Han Xin proclaimed himself King of Qi.
When King Xiang heard that Long Qie's army had collapsed, he panicked and sent Wu She from Xutai to persuade the Marquis of Huaiyin.
The Marquis of Huaiyin refused to obey.
At this time, Peng Yue rose up against Chu again and captured Liang, cutting off the Chu army's food routes.
King Xiang said to Cao Jiu, the chief minister of Haichunhou, and others: Guard Chenggao carefully. Even if the Han army challenges it, do not fight it, just do not let it advance eastward.
I will definitely kill Peng Yue in fifteen days, pacify the Liang region, and then join the general.
So King Xiang led his army eastward and attacked Chenliu and Waihuang during the march.
Waihuang was not captured.
A few days later, Waihuang surrendered. King Xiang was very angry and ordered all men over fifteen years old to go to the east of the city to prepare to kill them. The son of a retainer in Waihuang, who was only thirteen years old, went to advise King Xiang: Peng Yue used force to force the people of Waihuang. The people of Waihuang were very scared, so they temporarily surrendered and waited for the arrival of the king.
When the king arrives, he traps and kills them. Do the people still want to submit?
From here to the east, more than ten cities in the Liang region were fearful and no one was willing to surrender.
King Xiang agreed with his words and pardoned those who were supposed to be killed by Waihuang.
Everyone from Waihuang to Suiyang rushed to surrender to King Xiang after hearing the news.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
汉果数挑楚军战，楚军不出。
使人辱之，五六日，大司马怒，渡兵汜水。士卒半渡，汉击之，大破楚军，尽得楚国货赂。
大司马咎、长史翳、塞王欣皆自刭汜水上。
大司马咎者，故蕲狱掾，长史欣亦故栎阳狱吏，两人尝有德於项梁，是以项王信任之。
当是时，项王在睢阳，闻海春侯军败，则引兵还。
汉军方围锺离眛於荥阳东，项王至，汉军畏楚，尽走险阻。
是时，汉兵盛食多，项王兵罢食绝。
汉遣陆贾说项王，请太公，项王弗听。
汉王复使侯公往说项王，项王乃与汉约，中分天下，割鸿沟以西者为汉，鸿沟而东者为楚。
项王许之，即归汉王父母妻子。
军皆呼万岁。
汉王乃封侯公为平国君。
匿弗肯复见。
曰： 此天下辩士，所居倾国，故号为平国君。
项王已约，乃引兵解而东归。
汉欲西归，张良、陈平说曰： 汉有天下太半，而诸侯皆附之。
translation: 
As expected, the Han army challenged the Chu army many times, but the Chu army did not come out to challenge.
The Han army sent people to insult the Chu army in front of the battle line. They insulted the Chu army for five or six days. The great Sima was very angry and asked the soldiers to cross the Si River. The soldiers had just crossed the halfway point when the Han army attacked, defeated the Chu army and captured all the supplies of the Chu state.
The great Sima Cao Jiu and the Chang Shi Xin both committed suicide on the Si River.
The chief minister, Cao Jiu, was originally the warden of Qixian County, and the chief minister, Sima Xin, was originally the warden of Yueyang. They had been kind to Xiang Liang, so King Xiang trusted them.
At that time, King Xiang was in Suiyang. When he heard that Haichunhou's army had failed, he led his army back.
The Han army was besieging Zhongli Mei in the east of Xingyang. As soon as King Xiang arrived, the Han army was afraid of the Chu army and all retreated to dangerous areas.
At this time, the Han army had many soldiers and sufficient food, but King Xiang's soldiers were exhausted and had no food.
The King of Han sent Lu Jia to persuade King Xiang to release the Grand Duke, but King Xiang did not agree.
The king of Han sent Duke Hou to persuade King Xiang, and King Xiang made an agreement with Han to divide the world equally, dividing the west of the chasm to go to Han, and the east of the chasm to Chu.
King Xiang agreed to Duke Hou's request and sent back the parents and wife of the King of Han.
The Han troops all shouted long live.
The king of Han conferred the title of Prince of Ping.
Duke Hou went into hiding and refused to see the King of Han again.
The King of Han said: "This man is a eloquent scholar in the world. Wherever he goes, he can destroy people's countries, so he is named Ping Guojun."
King Xiang had concluded a peace treaty, so he ended the military confrontation and led his army back east.
The King of Han was preparing to return to the west. Zhang Liang and Chen Ping advised the King of Han: "The Han has occupied most of the world, and all the princes have surrendered to us."


Chunk 28: 
original: 
楚兵罢食尽，此天亡楚之时也，不如因其机而遂取之。
今释弗击，此所谓 养虎自遗患 也。
汉王听之。
汉五年，汉王乃追项王至阳夏南，止军，与淮阴侯韩信、建成侯彭越期会而击楚军。
至固陵，而信、越之兵不会。
楚击汉军，大破之。
汉王复入壁，深堑而自守。
谓张子房曰： 诸侯不从约，为之柰何？
对曰： 楚兵且破，信、越未有分地，其不至固宜。
君王能与共分天下，今可立致也。
即不能，事未可知也。
君王能自陈以东傅海，尽与韩信；睢阳以北至穀城，以与彭越：使各自为战，则楚易败也。
汉王曰： 善。
於是乃发使者告韩信、彭越曰： 并力击楚。
楚破，自陈以东傅海与齐王，睢阳以北至穀城与彭相国。
使者至，韩信、彭越皆报曰： 请今进兵。
韩信乃从齐往，刘贾军从寿春并行，屠城父，至垓下。
大司马周殷叛楚，以舒屠六，举九江兵，随刘贾、彭越皆会垓下，诣项王。
translation: 
The Chu army is exhausted. This is the time when God wants Chu to perish. It is better to take this opportunity to destroy it.
Now let King Xiang go and not attack him. This is the so-called "raise a tiger and bring trouble to yourself".
The king of Han agreed to their suggestion.
In the fifth year of the Han Dynasty, the King of Han pursued King Xiang to the south of Yangxia. The army was stationed and made an appointment with the Marquis of Huaiyin, Han Xin, and the Marquis of Jiancheng, Pengyue, to attack the Chu army.
Arriving at Guling, Han Xin and Peng Yue's troops did not come to join them.
The Chu army attacked the Han army and defeated the Han army.
The king of Han entered the camp again, dug deep trenches, and defended himself.
The king of Han said to Zhang Zifang: What should I do if the princes do not abide by the agreement?
Zhang Zifang replied: The Chu army is about to collapse. Han Xin and Peng Yue have not been assigned a fiefdom. It is natural that they will not come to join forces.
The king can share the world with them, and he can make them come immediately.
If this is not the case, the development of the situation will be difficult to predict.
If the king can allocate all the area from Chen County to the sea to Han Xin, and allocate the area from Suiyang to Gucheng to Peng Yue, so that they can fight separately, then the Chu army will be easily defeated.
The king of Han said: OK.
So he sent envoys to tell Han Xin and Peng Yue, "Let's work together to attack the Chu army."
After the collapse of the Chu army, the area east of Chen County to the seaside was given to King Qi, and the area north of Suiyang to Gucheng was given to Peng Xiangguo.
As soon as the envoy arrived, Han Xin and Peng Yue both replied: Please let us march immediately.
Han Xin set out from Qidi, and Liu Jia's army set out from Shouchun in parallel, slaughtered the city father, and arrived at Gaixia.
The Grand Sima Zhou Yin betrayed the Chu State and used Shu's troops to massacre six counties. He mobilized all Jiujiang soldiers, Liu Jia and Peng Yue gathered in Gaixia and came to King Xiang's formation.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
项王军壁垓下，兵少食尽，汉军及诸侯兵围之数重。
夜闻汉军四面皆楚歌，项王乃大惊曰： 汉皆已得楚乎？
是何楚人之多也！
项王则夜起，饮帐中。
有美人名虞，常幸从；骏马名骓，常骑之。
於是项王乃悲歌慷慨，自为诗曰： 力拔山兮气盖世，时不利兮骓不逝。
骓不逝兮可柰何，虞兮虞兮奈若何！
歌数阕，美人和之。
项王泣数行下，左右皆泣，莫能仰视。
於是项王乃上马骑，麾下壮士骑从者八百馀人，直夜溃围南出，驰走。
平明，汉军乃觉之，令骑将灌婴以五千骑追之。
项王渡淮，骑能属者百馀人耳。项王至阴陵，迷失道，问一田父，田父绐曰 左 。
左，乃陷大泽中。
以故汉追及之。
项王乃复引兵而东，至东城，乃有二十八骑。
translation: 
King Xiang's army built a fortress and lay low, with a small number of soldiers and no food supplies, and the Han army and the armies of various princes were surrounded by heavy soldiers.
At night, he heard the Han troops on all sides singing Chu songs. King Xiang was shocked and said, "Have all the Han troops occupied Chu?"
Why are there so many people in Chu?
King Xiang got up at night and drank wine in his tent.
There was a beautiful woman named Yu who was favored by King Xiang and often took her with him. There is a horse named Zui, and King Xiang often rides it.
So King Xiang sang a tragic song generously, composed a poem by himself and sang: "Strong to lift the mountain, the spirit is overwhelming, but the times are unfavorable and the elegance will not fade away."
What can you do if your glory is not gone? What can you do if you are worried!
After singing it several times, the beauty sang along with him.
King Xiang wept bitterly and shed several lines of tears. The attendants on the left and right also bowed their heads and wept, unable to look up.
So King Xiang mounted his horse, and his strong men on horseback, followed by more than 800 people, broke through the siege that night and galloped southward.
At dawn, the Han army realized this and sent cavalry general Guan Ying with 5,000 cavalry to pursue King Xiang.
King Xiang crossed the Huai River, and there were only more than a hundred cavalry who could follow him. When King Xiang went to Yinling, he lost his way and asked a farmer. The farmer deceived him and said, "Go left."
King Xiang went to the left and fell into a large swamp.
Therefore, the Han army caught up with King Xiang.
King Xiang then led his troops east again. When they arrived at Dongcheng, there were only twenty-eight cavalry left.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
汉骑追者数千人。
项王自度不得脱。谓其骑曰： 吾起兵至今八岁矣，身七十馀战，所当者破，所击者服，未尝败北，遂霸有天下。
然今卒困於此，此天之亡我，非战之罪也。
今日固决死，原为诸君快战，必三胜之，为诸君溃围，斩将，刈旗，令诸君知天亡我，非战之罪也。
乃分其骑以为四队，四乡。
汉军围之数重。
项王谓其骑曰： 吾为公取彼一将。
令四面骑驰下，期山东为三处。
於是项王大呼驰下，汉军皆披靡，遂斩汉一将。
是时，赤泉侯为骑将，追项王，项王瞋目而叱之，赤泉侯人马俱惊，辟易数里与其骑会为三处。
汉军不知项王所在，乃分军为三，复围之。项王乃驰，复斩汉一都尉，杀数十百人，复聚其骑，亡其两骑耳。
乃谓其骑曰： 何如？
骑皆伏曰： 如大王言。
於是项王乃欲东渡乌江。
乌江亭长舣檥船待，谓项王曰： 江东虽小，地方千里，众数十万人，亦足王也。
愿大王急渡。
今独臣有船，汉军至，无以渡。
项王笑曰： 天之亡我，我何渡为！
且籍与江东子弟八千人渡江而西，今无一人还，纵江东父兄怜而王我，我何面目见之？
纵彼不言，籍独不愧於心乎？
乃谓亭长曰： 吾知公长者。
吾骑此马五岁，所当无敌，尝一日行千里，不忍杀之，以赐公。
乃令骑皆下马步行，持短兵接战。
translation: 
The chasing Han cavalry numbered several thousand.
King Xiang himself was probably unable to escape, so he said to his cavalry: It has been eight years since I raised my army, and I have personally fought more than seventy battles. Whoever resists me, I defeat, and whoever I attack surrenders. I have never lost a battle, so I dominate the world.
However, now I am finally besieged here. This is because God wants to destroy me, and it is not my fault in fighting.
Of course I am determined to fight to the death today, and I am willing to fight a happy battle for you. I must win three times, break through the siege for you, kill the enemy generals, and cut down the enemy's flag, so that you will know that it is God who destroyed me, and it is not my fault in fighting.
King Xiang divided his cavalry into four teams, facing all directions.
The Han army surrounded King Xiang on several levels.
King Xiang said to his cavalry: I will kill one of his generals for you.
King Xiang ordered the cavalry to gallop down in all directions and agreed to meet in three places on the east side of the mountain.
So King Xiang shouted loudly and rushed down. The Han army was frightened and collapsed, and King Xiang beheaded a Han general.
At that time, Chiquanhou was a cavalry general and chased King Xiang. King Xiang roared angrily, and Chiquanhou's men and horses were frightened and retreated for several miles. King Xiang and his cavalry gathered in three places.
The Han army didn't know where King Xiang was, so they divided their army into three parts and surrounded King Xiang. King Xiang rode on horseback and killed a captain of the Han army, killing more than a hundred people. He then gathered his cavalry and only lost two cavalrymen.
King Xiang said to his cavalry: How is it?
The cavalry all admired him and said: Just as the king said.
King Xiang wanted to cross the Wu River eastward.
The chief of the Wujiang Pavilion pulled the boat to the shore and waited for King Xiang. He said to King Xiang: Although Jiangdong is small, it stretches thousands of miles and has hundreds of thousands of people, which is enough to call him king.
I hope the king can cross the river quickly.
Now I am the only one who has ships. When the Han army comes here, there are no ships to cross the river.
King Xiang smiled and said: "God wants to destroy me, so why should I cross the river?"
Besides, I crossed the Yangtze River to the west with eight thousand people from Jiangdong, and now no one has come back. Even if the Jiangdong father and brother took pity on me and allowed me to become king, what face would I have to see them?
Even if they don't say anything, don't I, Xiang Ji, feel guilty for not doing it?
King Xiang said to the pavilion chief: I know you are a loyal and honest man.
I have been riding this horse for five years and it is invincible. I once galloped a thousand miles a day. I cannot bear to kill it, so I will give it to you.
He asked the cavalry to dismount and walk, and the soldiers engaged in short-range combat.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
独籍所杀汉军数百人。
项王身亦被十馀创。
顾见汉骑司马吕马童，曰： 若非吾故人乎？
马童面之，指王翳曰： 此项王也。
项王乃曰： 吾闻汉购我头千金，邑万户，吾为若德。
乃自刎而死。
王翳取其头，馀骑相蹂践争项王，相杀者数十人。
最其後，郎中骑杨喜，骑司马吕马童，郎中吕胜、杨武各得其一体。
五人共会其体，皆是。
故分其地为五：封吕马童为中水侯，封王翳为杜衍侯，封杨喜为赤泉侯，封杨武为吴防侯，封吕胜为涅阳侯。
项王已死，楚地皆降汉，独鲁不下。
汉乃引天下兵欲屠之，为其守礼义，为主死节，乃持项王头视鲁，鲁父兄乃降。
始，楚怀王初封项籍为鲁公，及其死，鲁最後下，故以鲁公礼葬项王穀城。
汉王为发哀，泣之而去。
诸项氏枝属，汉王皆不诛。
乃封项伯为射阳侯。
桃侯、平皋侯、玄武侯皆项氏，赐姓刘。
太史公曰：吾闻之周生曰 舜目盖重瞳子 ，又闻项羽亦重瞳子。
羽岂其苗裔邪？
translation: 
Xiang Ji alone killed hundreds of Han soldiers.
King Xiang also suffered more than ten injuries.
He turned around and saw Lu Matong, the cavalry commander of the Han army, and said, "Aren't you my old friend?"
Lu Matong faced King Xiang, pointed out to Wang Yi and said, "This is King Xiang."
King Xiang said: I heard that the Han army put a thousand catties of gold and ten thousand households as a reward for my head. I will do you a favor.
He killed himself and died.
Wang Yi cut off King Xiang's head, and the other cavalry trampled on each other, fighting for King Xiang's body, and killed dozens of each other.
Finally, the lieutenants rode Yang happy and the Sima Lu Matong. The lieutenants Lu Sheng and Yang Wu each got a piece of King Xiang's body.
The five men put their limbs together, and they all belonged to King Xiang.
Therefore, the rewarded land was divided into five parts: Lu Matong was granted the title of Zhongshui Marquis, Wang Yi was granted the title of Du Yanhou, Yang Xi was granted the title of Chiquan Marquis, Yang Wu was granted the title of Wu Fanghou, and Lu Sheng was granted the title of Nieyang Marquis.
After King Xiang's death, all parts of the Chu State surrendered to the Han army, except the city of Lu, which refused to surrender.
The king of Han then led his soldiers to massacre the city of Lu because they adhered to etiquette and sacrificed their lives for their masters. The king of Han showed King Xiang's head to the people of Lu, and the father and brother of Lu surrendered.
Initially, King Huai of Chu granted Xiang Ji the title of Duke of Lu. When Xiang Ji died, Lu City finally surrendered, so King Xiang was buried in Gucheng with the etiquette of Duke Lu.
The king of Han mourned for King Xiang, cried for a while, and then left Lucheng.
The king of Han did not kill any of the Xiang clans.
Xiang Bo was granted the title of Marquis of Sheyang.
Taohou, Pingjinghou and Xuanwuhou are all members of the Xiang clan and are given the surname Liu.
Tai Shigong said: I heard Zhou Sheng said that Shun's eyes probably had two pupils, and I also heard that Xiang Yu also had two pupils.
Is Xiang Yu a descendant of Shun?


Chunk 32: 
original: 
何兴之暴也！
夫秦失其政，陈胜首难，豪杰蜂起，相与并争，不可胜数。
然羽非有尺寸，乘埶起陇亩之中，三年，遂将五诸侯灭秦，分裂天下，而封王侯，政由羽出，号为 霸王 ，位虽不终，近古以来未尝有也。
及羽背关怀楚，放逐义帝而自立，怨王侯叛己，难矣。
自矜功伐，奋其私智而不师古，谓霸王之业，欲以力征经营天下，五年卒亡其国，身死东城，尚不觉寤而不自责，过矣。
乃引 天亡我，非用兵之罪也 ，岂不谬哉！
translation: 
Why did it rise so quickly?
The Qin Dynasty was politically corrupt. Chen She was the first to attack, and countless heroes began to compete with each other.
However, Xiang Yu had no basis to rely on, so he took advantage of the situation and started from among the people. In three years, he led five armies of princes to eliminate the Qin Dynasty, divided the world, created kings and princes, and established his own government. He was named "Overlord". Although he did not always maintain his status, there has never been such a thing in modern times.
When until Xiang Yu gave up Guanzhong, missed the Chu land, exiled Yi Emperor and made himself king, complained that the princes betrayed him, it was already difficult to control the situation.
He boasted about his achievements and acted out his own selfish wisdom. He did not follow the example of the ancients and thought that to create an overlord's cause, he needed to use force to run the world. In just five years, he lost his own country and died in Dongcheng. He has not yet awakened and does not condemn himself. This is wrong.
Isn't it ridiculous to use the excuse that God destroyed me because it was not my fault in fighting the war?


