Chunk 0: 
original: 
刘焉袁术吕布刘焉字君郎，江夏竟陵人也，鲁恭王后也。
肃宗时，徙竟陵。
焉少任州郡，以宗室拜郎中。
去官居阳城山，精学教授。
举贤良方正，稍迁南阳太守、宗正、太常。
时，灵帝政化衰缺，四方兵寇，焉以为刺史威轻，既不能禁，且用非其人，辄增暴乱，乃建议改置牧伯，镇安方夏，清选重臣，以居其任。
焉乃阴求为交阯，以避时难。
议未即行，会益州刺史郗俭在政烦扰，谣言远闻，而并州刺史张懿、凉州刺史耿鄙并为寇贼所害，故焉议得用。
出焉为监军使者，领益州牧，太仆黄琬为豫州牧，宗正刘虞为幽州牧，皆以本秩居职。
州任之重，自此而始。
是时，益州贼马相亦自号 黄巾 ，合聚疲役之民数千人，先杀绵竹令，进攻雒县，杀郗俭，又击蜀郡、犍为，旬月之间，破坏三郡。
translation: 
◆Liu Yanchuan, Liu Yan, courtesy name Junlang, was from Jingling, Jiangxia, and was a descendant of King Lu Gong.
During the reign of Emperor Suzong, the Liu family moved to Jingling.
When Liu Yan was young, he served in prefectures and counties, and was awarded the position of doctor because he was a member of the emperor's clan.
After leaving office, Liu Yan lived in Yangcheng Mountain, focusing on learning and teaching his disciples.
Later, he was recommended as a virtuous and upright person, and was gradually promoted to Nanyang Prefect, Zongzheng, and Taichang.
At that time, Emperor Ling's political education was in decline and there were military rebellions everywhere. Liu Yan believed that the power of the governor was small and he had no ability to stop it, and the people he appointed were incompetent, so the rebellions often increased. So he suggested that the governor should be appointed to control one side and carefully select ministers who hold important positions as shepherds.
Liu Yan secretly sought help from the governor of Jiaozhi to avoid the chaos at that time.
His suggestions were not implemented in time, but Xi Jian, the governor of Yizhou, was disturbing the people with his administration. Rumors spread far and wide, and Zhang Yi, the governor of Bingzhou, and Geng Bi, the governor of Liangzhou, were both killed by bandits, so Liu Yan's proposal was adopted.
Liu Yan was sent to serve as the envoy to supervise the army and lead the shepherd of Yizhou. Huang Wan, the imperial servant, served as the shepherd of Yuzhou, and Zongzheng Liu Yu served as the shepherd of Youzhou. They all served as the shepherd of the state with the salary of their original positions.
The importance of the status of the state pastor begins here.
At this time, Yizhou's thieves and horses also called themselves "Yellow Turbans", gathered thousands of people who were suffering from labor, first killed Mianzhu Ling, attacked Luo County, killed Xi Jian, and then attacked Shu County and Qianwei. Within a month, they captured and destroyed three counties.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
马相自称 天子 ，众至十余万人，遣兵破巴郡，杀郡守赵部。
州从事贾龙，先领兵数百人在犍为，遂纠合吏人攻相，破之，龙乃遣吏卒迎焉。
焉到，以龙为校尉，徙居绵竹。
抚纳离叛，务行宽惠，而阴图异计。
沛人张鲁，母有姿色，兼挟鬼道，往来焉家，遂任鲁以为督义司马，与别部司马张脩将兵掩杀汉中太守苏固，断绝斜谷，杀使者。
鲁既得汉中，遂复杀张脩而并其众。
焉欲立威刑以自尊大，乃托以佗事，杀州中豪强十余人，士民皆怨。
初平二年，犍为太守任岐及贾龙并反，攻焉。焉击破，皆杀之。
自此意气渐盛，遂造作乘舆车重千余乘。
焉四子，范为左中郎将，诞治书御史，璋奉车都尉，并从献帝在长安，唯别部司马瑁随焉在益州。
朝廷使璋晓譬焉，焉留璋不复遣。
兴平元年，征西将军马腾与范谋诛李傕，焉遣叟兵五千助之，战败，范及诞并见杀。焉既痛二子，又遇天火烧其城府车重，延及民家，馆邑无余，于是徙居成都，遂疽发背卒。
州大吏赵韪等贪璋温仁，立为刺史。
诏书因以璋为监军使者，领益州牧，以韪为征东中郎将。
先是，荆州牧刘表表焉僭拟乘舆器服，韪以此遂屯兵朐备表。
初，南阳、三辅民数万户流入益州，焉悉收以为众，名曰 东州兵 。
translation: 
Ma Xiang called himself the Son of Heaven and had a tribe of more than 100,000 people. Ma Xiang sent troops to conquer Bajun and killed Tangbu, the prefect of Bajun.
Jia Long, a minister of Yizhou, originally led hundreds of soldiers to garrison in Jianwei, so he gathered the officials and people to attack Ma Xiang and defeated him. Jia Long sent officials and soldiers to meet Liu Yan.
After Liu Yan took office, he appointed Jia Long as the school captain and moved him to Mianzhu.
Liu Yan comforted and sheltered those who escaped and rebelled, and tried his best to implement a policy of tolerance and kindness, but in his heart he planned to rebel.
Zhang Lu, a native of Pei State, had a beautiful mother, and was familiar with the myths of gods and ghosts. He had contacts with Liu Yan's family. Liu Yan appointed Zhang Lu as the governor of the Sima. He and other Sima Zhang Xiu led troops to kill Su Gu, the prefect of Hanzhong, by surprise. They cut off the Xie Valley and killed the envoys who came and went.
Zhang Lu had occupied Hanzhong, so he killed Zhang Xiu and merged his troops.
Liu Yan wanted to achieve his arrogance by establishing strict criminal laws, so he used other things as an excuse to kill more than a dozen powerful people in the state, which made the scholars and the people complain.
In the second year of Chuping, Jianwei governor Ren Qi and Jia Long rebelled together. They were defeated by Liu Yan and all the rebels were killed.
From then on, Liu Yan's spirit gradually became stronger and stronger, and he built the emperor's carriage and more than a thousand baggage vehicles.
Liu Yan had four sons, Liu Fan served as Zuo Zhonglang, Liu Dan served as the censor of the book, and Liu Zhang served as the captain of Fengche. They all followed Emperor Xian in Chang'an, and only Liu Mao, the commander of another department, followed Liu Yan in Yizhou.
The imperial court sent Liu Zhang to inform Liu Yan, who kept Liu Zhang behind and refused to let him go back.
In the first year of Xingping, General Ma Teng and Liu Fan discussed killing Li Cui. Liu Yan sent 5,000 Shu soldiers to help, but they were defeated. Liu Fan and Liu Dan were both killed. Liu Yan was already sad because of the loss of his two sons. Then there was a fire that burned down the carriages and supplies in the city. The fire also burned the people's houses.
The senior officials in Yizhou, such as Tanti and others, coveted Liu Zhang's gentleness and kindness and appointed him as the governor.
The emperor issued an edict and appointed Liu Zhang as the envoy to supervise the army and lead the herdsman of Yizhou, and appointed Chang Wei as the general of Zhengshu Zhonglang.
Before this, Liu Biao, the herdsman of Jingzhou, wrote a letter to accuse Liu Yan of violating his identity and comparing himself to the emperor in terms of carriage utensils and clothing, so he went to Wei to garrison troops with gills to guard against Liu Biao.
At first, tens of thousands of people from Nanyang and Sanfu fled to Yizhou, and Liu Yan collected them all into his tribe, called Shuzhou soldiers.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
璋性柔宽无威略，东州入侵暴为民患，不能禁制，旧士颇有离怨。
赵韩之在巴中，甚得众心，璋委之以权。
韪因人情不辑，乃阴结州中大姓。
建安五年，还共击璋，蜀郡、广汉、犍为皆反应。
东州人畏见诛灭，乃同心并力，为璋死战，遂破反者，进攻韪于江州，斩之。
张鲁以璋暗懦，不复承顺。
璋怒，杀鲁母及弟，而遣其将庞羲等攻鲁，数为所破。
鲁部曲多在巴土，故以羲为巴郡太守。
鲁因袭取之，遂雄于巴汉。
十三年，曹操自将征荆州，璋乃遣使致敬。
操加璋振威将军，兄瑁平寇将军。
璋因遣别驾从事张松诣操，而操不相接礼。
松怀恨而还，劝璋绝曹氏，而结好刘备。
璋从之。
十六年，璋闻曹操当遣兵向汉中讨张鲁，内怀恐惧，松复说璋迎刘备以拒操。
璋即遣法正将兵迎备。
璋主簿巴西黄权谏曰： 刘备有枭名，今以部曲遇之，则不满其心，以宾客待之，则一国不容二主，此非自安之道。
从事广汉王累自倒悬于州门以谏。璋一无所纳。
备自江陵驰至涪城，璋率步骑数万与备会。
张松劝备于会袭璋，备不忍。
明年，出屯葭萌。
松兄广汉太守肃惧祸及己，乃以松谋白璋，收松斩之，敕诸关戍勿复通。
备大怒，还兵击璋，所在战克。
十九年，进围成都，数十日，城中有精兵三万人，谷支一年，吏民咸欲拒战。
璋言： 父子在州二十余岁，无恩德以加百姓，而攻战三载，肌膏草野者，以璋故也。
何心能安！
遂开城出降，群下莫不流涕。
备迁璋于公安，归其财宝，后以病卒。
明年，曹操破张鲁，定汉中。
鲁字公旗。
初，祖父陵，顺帝时客于蜀，学道鹤鸣山中，造作符书，以惑百姓。
受其道者辄出米五斗，故谓之 米贼 。
translation: 
Liu Zhang has a weak and tolerant temperament and lacks authority and strategy. The invasion of Shuzhou was violent and became a disaster for the people. Liu Zhang was unable to stop it. The old scholars complained and rebelled.
When he was in Bazhong, he was very popular with the people and soldiers, and Liu Zhang handed over the power to him.
Seeing the discord among the people, Zhao Wei secretly colluded with the prominent families in the state.
In the fifth year of Jian'an, Zhao Wei turned his forces to jointly attack Liu Zhang. Shu County, Guanghan, and Qianwei all betrayed Liu Zhang and responded.
The people of Shuzhou were afraid of being beheaded, so they worked together to fight to the death for Liu Zhang. As a result, they defeated the rebels, attacked Zhao Wei in Jiangzhou, and killed Zhao Gan.
Zhang Lu stopped obeying Liu Zhang because he was confused and cowardly.
Liu Zhang became angry and killed Zhang Lu's mother and younger brother, and sent general Pang Xi and others to attack Zhang Lu, but was defeated by Zhang Lu many times.
Most of Zhang Lu's troops were deployed in the Bajun area, so Liu Zhang appointed Pang Xi as the governor of Bajun.
Zhang Lu took the opportunity to attack Bajun in a sneak attack, and finally dominated the desert area of ​​Bajun.
In the thirteenth year, Cao Cao personally led troops to conquer Jingzhou, and Liu Zhang sent an envoy to pay his respects.
Cao Cao granted Liu Zhang the title of General Zhenwei and his brother Liu Mao the title of General Pingkou.
Therefore, Liu Zhang sent his chariot officer Zhang Song to Cao Cao, but Cao Cao did not receive him according to etiquette.
Zhang Song was filled with resentment and upon his return, he persuaded Liu Zhang to sever ties with Cao Cao and become friendly with Liu Bei.
Liu Zhang accepted Zhang Song's opinion.
In the sixteenth year, Liu Zhang was frightened when he heard that Cao Cao would send troops to Hanzhong to conquer Zhang Lu. Zhang Song persuaded Liu Zhang to welcome Liu Bei to resist Cao Cao.
Liu Zhang immediately sent Fa Zheng and his troops to meet Liu Bei.
Liu Zhang's chief secretary, the Brazilian Huang Quan, dissuaded him and said: Liu Bei has a reputation for bravery. If you treat him as a subordinate now, you will not be able to satisfy his wishes; if you treat him as a guest, one country cannot tolerate two masters, which is not a way to make yourself safe.
Wang Lei, who was engaged in Guanghan, hung himself upside down on the gate of Yizhou City to dissuade Liu Zhang, but Liu Zhang refused to accept any of them.
Liu Bei rode from Jiangling to Fucheng. Liu Zhang led tens of thousands of infantry and cavalry to meet Liu Bei.
Zhang Song persuaded Liu Bei to sneak attack Liu Zhang when they met, but Liu Bei couldn't bear it.
The next year, Liu Bei went out to garrison Jiameng.
Zhang Song's brother Zhang Su, the prefect of Guanghan, was afraid that disaster was imminent, so he reported Zhang Song's plot to Liu Zhang. Liu Zhang arrested and executed Zhang Song and ordered the guards at all passes to block the roads.
Liu Bei was furious and turned his troops to attack Liu Zhang. He captured everything he pointed at.
In the 19th year, Liu Bei marched and surrounded Chengdu for dozens of days. There were 30,000 elite troops in the city with enough food to last for a year. The officials and the people wanted to resist.
Liu Zhang said: My father and son have been in Yizhou for more than 20 years. They have not shown any kindness to the people, but they have fought for three years. Many people died in the wilderness, just because of me.
How can I feel at ease!
So he opened the city gate and went out to surrender. All his subordinates cried.
Liu Bei moved Liu Zhang to the Public Security Bureau and returned the treasure to him. Later Liu Zhang died of illness.
The next year, Cao Cao defeated Zhang Lu and pacified Hanzhong.
Zhang Lu is the public flag.
At first, Zhang Lu's grandfather, Zhang Ling, lived in Shu during the reign of Emperor Shun. He studied Taoism in Heming Mountain and made talismans to confuse the people.
Those who accepted Zhang Ling's Taoist teachings always took out five buckets of rice, so they were called rice thieves.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
陵传子衡，衡传于鲁，鲁遂自号 师君 。
其来学者，初名为 鬼卒 ，后号 祭酒 。
祭酒各领部众，众多者名曰 理头 。
皆校以诚信，不听欺妄，有病但令首过而已。
诸祭酒各起义舍于路，同之亭传，县置米肉以给行旅。
食者量腹取足，过多则鬼能病之。
犯法者先加三原，然后行刑。
不置长吏，以祭酒为理，民夷信向。
朝廷不能讨，遂就拜鲁镇夷中郎将，领汉宁太守。
通其贡献。韩遂、马超之乱，关西民奔鲁者数万家。
时人有地中得玉印者，群下欲尊鲁为汉宁王。
鲁功曹阎圃谏曰： 汉川之民，户出十万，四面险固，财富土沃，上匡天子，则为桓、文，次方窦融，不失富贵。
今承制署置，势足斩断。
遽称王号，必为祸先。
鲁从之。
translation: 
Zhang Ling passed it on to his son Zhang Heng, and Zhang Heng passed it on to his son Zhang Lu. Zhang Lu then called himself "Shijun".
Those who came to learn Taoism were called "ghost soldiers" at first, and later "jijiu".
Each of the sacrificial wine leaders leads their subordinates, and the one with the largest number of people is called "Litou".
They all require everyone to be honest and trustworthy, and no deception or falsehood is allowed. If anyone is sick, he only needs to tell him about the mistakes he has made.
All sacrificial wine houses are built on the roadside, just like the inns, and rice and meat are placed to provide for pedestrians.
The person who comes to eat takes as much as he wants. Taking too much will make him sick.
Those who broke the law were first forgiven three times and then punished.
They did not have officials and assistants, they were responsible for the management of the wine sacrifices, and the common people and barbarians were convinced and submitted.
The imperial court was unable to attack him, so it sent people to confer Zhang Lu Zhenyi Zhonglang General and Hanning Prefecture, and accepted his tribute.
During the rebellion between Han Sui and Ma Chao, tens of thousands of people from Guanxi defected to Zhang Lu.
At that time, someone obtained the jade seal underground, and his subordinates wanted to honor Zhang Lu as King Hanning.
Zhang Lu's meritorious Cao Yan Pu dissuaded him and said: "There are more than 100,000 people in Hanchuan, the surroundings must be strong, the property is rich, and the land is fertile. If you can assist the emperor with the best strategy, you can become Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin. Secondly, you can be compared with Dou Rong, and you will not lose wealth."
Nowadays, officials are appointed in the name of the emperor, and they have enough power to kill and kill arbitrarily.
If you rush to become king, you will surely sow the seeds of disaster.
Zhang Lu adopted his opinion.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
鲁自在汉川垂三十年，闻曹操征之，至阳平，欲举汉中降。
其弟卫不听，率众数万，拒关固守。
操破卫，斩之。
鲁闻阳平已陷，将稽颡归降。
阎圃说曰： 今以急往，其功为轻，不如且依巴中，然后委质，功必多也。
于是乃奔南山。左右欲悉焚宝货仓库。鲁曰： 本欲归命国家，其意未遂。
今日之走，以避锋锐，非有恶意。
遂封藏而去。
操入南郑，甚嘉之。
又以鲁本有善意，遣人尉安之。
鲁即与家属出逆，拜镇南将军，封阆中侯，邑万户，将还中国，待以客礼。封鲁五子及阎圃等皆为列侯。
鲁卒，谥曰原侯。子富嗣。
论曰：刘焉睹时方艰，先求后亡之所，庶乎见几而作。
夫地广则骄尊之心生，财衍则僭奢之情用，固亦恒人必至之期也。
translation: 
Zhang Lu had been in Hanchuan for nearly thirty years. When he learned that Cao Cao was conquering him and had reached Yanghuguan, he wanted to surrender the entire Hanzhong.
Zhang Lu's younger brother Chuiman refused and led tens of thousands of people to defend the territory and resist.
Xuancao defeated Zhang Wei and killed him.
Zhang Lu learned that Yangping Pass had been captured and was ready to plead guilty and surrender.
Yan Pu said: At present, surrendering due to emergency circumstances will not achieve much merit. It is better to rely on the Bazhong area for the time being and then surrender, which will definitely achieve greater merit.
In this way, Zhang Lu fled to Nanshan. His men wanted to burn all the treasure warehouses. Zhang Lu said: "I originally wanted to submit to the imperial court, but my wish failed to come true."
The purpose of escaping today was to avoid the front of the army, and there was no malicious intention.
So he closed the palace and left.
Cao Cao entered Nanzheng and praised Zhang Lu very much.
And because Zhang Lu originally had good intentions, he sent people to comfort and appease him.
Zhang Lu immediately came out with his family and subordinates to greet Cao Cao. Cao Cao awarded him the post of General Zhennan and the title of Lu Zhonghou, with a settlement of 10,000 households. Cao Cao prepared to return to the Central Plains and treated Ba Ba with the courtesy of guests. He named Ba Ba's five sons, Lili and others as marquises.
After the death of Tui Zhou, Mi was given the title of Qubao, and his son inherited the official position vertically.
On the day: Liu Yan saw that the current situation was difficult, and he first sought a place where he could perish before others, hoping to rise when he saw the opportunity.
When the territory is vast, pride and arrogance will arise; when wealth is abundant, the desire for extravagance will develop. This is a state that ordinary people must reach.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
璋能闭隘养力，守案先图，尚可与岁时推移，而遽输利器，静受流斥，所谓羊质虎皮，见豺则恐，吁哉！
袁术字公路，汝南汝阳人，司空逢之子也。
少以侠气闻，数与诸公子飞鹰走狗，后颇折节。
举孝廉，累迁至河南尹、虎贲中郎将。
时，董卓将欲废立，以术为后将军。
术畏卓之祸，出奔南阳。
会长沙太守孙坚杀南阳太守张咨，引兵从术。
刘表上术为南阳太守，术又表坚领豫州刺史，使率荆、豫之卒，击破董卓于阳人。
术从兄绍因坚讨卓未反，远，遣其将会稽周昕夺坚豫州。
术怒，击昕走之。
绍议欲立刘虞为帝，术好放纵，惮立长君，托以公义不肯同，积此衅隙遂成。
乃各外交党援，以相图谋，术结公孙瓚，而绍连刘表。
豪桀多附于绍，术怒曰： 群竖不吾从，而从吾家奴乎！
又与公孙瓚书，云绍非袁氏子，绍闻大怒。
初平三年，术遣孙坚击刘表于襄阳，坚战死。
公孙瓚使刘备与术合谋共逼绍，绍与曹操会击，皆破之。
四年，术引军入陈留，屯封丘。
黑山余贼及匈奴於扶罗等佐术，与曹操战于匡亭，大败。
术退保雍丘，又将其余众奔九江，杀杨州刺史陈温而自领之，又兼称徐州伯。
李傕入长安，欲结术为援，乃授以左将军，假节，封阳翟侯。
初，术在南阳，户口尚数十百万，而不修法度，以抄掠为资，奢恣无猒，百姓患之。
又少见谶书，言 代汉者当涂高 ，自云名字应之。
又以袁氏出陈为舜后，以黄代赤，德运之次，遂有僭逆之谋。
又闻孙坚得传国玺，遂拘坚妻夺之。
兴平二年冬，天子播越，败于曹阳。
术大会群下，因谓曰： 今海内鼎沸，刘氏微弱。
translation: 
Liu Zhang was able to block the passes, accumulate strength, guard and govern the territory of his ancestors, and could persist as the years changed. However, he hurriedly handed over power and waited to be exiled and ostracized. He was really a so-called sheep in tiger skin. He was scared to death at the sight of a jackal. What a shame!
◆The biography of Yuan Shu, Yuan Shu, courtesy name Gongdao, was born in Ruyang, Runan, and was the son of Sikong Yuan Feng.
When he was young, he was famous for his chivalrous spirit, and he often went hunting with his young master buddies. Later, he changed a lot.
He was recommended as Xiaolian and was transferred to Henan Yin and Huben Zhonglang generals many times.
At that time, Dong Zhuo was preparing to change his position as emperor and appointed Yuan Shu as the post-general.
Yuan Shu was afraid of being involved in Dong Zhuo's troubles and ran to Nanyang.
It happened that Sun Jian, the governor of Changsha, killed Zhang Zi, the governor of Nanyang, and led his troops to obey Yuan Shu.
Liu Biao wrote a letter recommending Yuan Shu to be the governor of Nanyang. Yuan Shu also wrote a letter recommending Sun Jian to be the governor of Yuzhou. Sun Jian was asked to lead the troops in Jingzhou and Yuzhou and defeated Dong Zhuo in Yangren.
Yuan Shu's cousin Yuan Shao took advantage of the fact that Sun Jian had not returned from his crusade against Dong Zhuo and was far away, so he sent his general Zhou Xin to capture Sun Jian's Yuzhou.
Yuan Shu was very angry and beat Zhou Xin away.
Yuan Shao discussed making Liu Yu the emperor, but Yuan Shu liked to indulge and was afraid of making an older person emperor, so he refused to agree on the grounds of public opinion. When they got together, there was a gap between the two.
So the two of them each made friends as foreign aid to influence each other's ideas. Yuan Shu befriended Gongsun Zan, while Yuan Shao allied with Liu Biao.
Most of the heroes attached themselves to Yuan Shao. Yuan Shu got angry and said: "Are these princes not following me, but following my servants?"
He also wrote to Gongsun Zan, saying that Yuan Shao was not born to the Yuan family. Yuan Shao was furious when he found out.
In the third year of Chuping, Yuan Shu sent Sun Jian to attack Liu Biao in Xiangyang, and Sun Jian died in the battle.
Gongsun Zan wanted Liu Bei to conspire with Yuan Shu to force Yuan Shao, but under the joint attack of Yuan Shao and Cao Cao, they were all defeated.
In the fourth year, Ai Shu led his troops into Chenliu and stationed in Fengqiu.
The remaining bandits in Montenegro and the Xiongnu Yu Fuluo and others helped Yuan Shu and fought with Cao Cao in Kuangting, but they were defeated.
Yuan Shu withdrew his troops to defend Yongqiu, then led the remaining troops to Jiujiang, killed Chen Wen, the governor of Yangzhou, and became the governor of Yangzhou himself, also known as Xuzhou Bo.
Li Ji entered Chang'an and wanted to make friends with Yuan Shu as a foreign aid, so he appointed Yuan Shu as the general of the left. During the holiday, he made him the Marquis of Yangzhai.
At first, when Yuan Shu was in Nanyang, there were still hundreds of thousands of households and a population of several million. However, he did not pay attention to regulating the legal system. He relied on plundering to save money, was extravagant and indulgent, and was greedy. The people were disgusted with him.
When Yuan Shu was young, he saw a prophecy book that said that the one who replaced the Han Dynasty would be Dang Tu Gao, which meant that his name matched the prophecy book.
And because the Yuan family came from the state of Chen, they were descendants of Shun. Replacing red virtue with yellow virtue is in line with the order of operation of the five virtues, so he has the idea of ​​​​transgression and rebellion.
When he heard that Sun Jian had obtained the imperial seal, he imprisoned Sun Jian's wife to obtain the imperial seal.
In the winter of the second year of Xingping, the emperor was exiled and was defeated in Caoyang.
Yuan Shu gathered his subordinates and said to them: The current situation in the country is chaotic and chaotic, and the Liu family is weak.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
吾家四世公辅，百姓所归，欲应天顺民，于诸君何如？
众莫敢对。
主簿阎象进曰： 昔周自后稷至于文王，积德累功，参分天下，犹服事殷。
明公虽奕世克昌，孰若有周之盛？
汉室虽微，未至殷纣之敝也。
术嘿然，使召张范。范辞疾，遣弟承往应之。
术问曰 昔周室陵迟，则有桓、文之霸；秦失其政，汉接而用之。
今孤以土地之广，士人之众，欲徼福于齐桓，拟迹于高祖，可乎？
承对曰： 在德不在众。
苟能用德以同天下之欲，虽云匹夫，霸王可也。
若陵僭无度，干时而动，众之所弃，谁能兴之！
术不说。
自孙坚死，子策复领其部曲，术遣击杨州刺史刘繇，破之，策因据江东。
策闻术将欲僭号，与书谏曰：董卓无道，陵虐王室，祸加太后，暴及弘农，天子播越，宫庙焚毁，是以豪桀发愤，沛然俱起。
translation: 
The fourth generation of my family has served as the prime minister of the three princes, and the people have surrendered. I want to obey the heaven above and obey the people's hearts below. What do you think?
No one dared to answer.
Chief Secretary Jian Xiang stepped forward and said: In the past, the Zhou Dynasty, from Houji to King Wen, accumulated kindness and merit, owned one-third of the world, and also obeyed and served Emperor Yin.
Although you have been prosperous for generations, can you compare with the prosperity of the Zhou Dynasty?
Although Moshi was weak, it was not as bad as Yin and Zhou.
Yuan Shu was speechless and sent someone to summon Zhang Fan. Zhang Fan excused himself from illness and sent his younger brother Zhang Cheng to deal with the situation.
Yuan Shu asked Zhang Cheng: In the past, when the emperor of Zhou declined, the hegemony of Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin emerged; the Qin Dynasty was in political chaos, and the Han Dynasty succeeded the Qin Dynasty and took power.
Now, with my vast land and numerous scholars and people, I want to seek blessings from Duke Huan of Qi and compare my merits with those of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty. Is that okay?
Zhang Cheng replied: Dispatch depends on virtue and not on the number of people.
If they can implement virtuous government and meet the needs of the people of the world, even ordinary people can become the overlord and emperor.
If one commits arrogance, does not exercise restraint, and goes against the trend of the times, this will be abandoned by everyone, and who can make it prosper?
Yuan Shu was very unhappy after hearing this.
After Bai Sunjian's death, his son Sun Ce took command of Sun Jian's men. Yuan Shu sent Sun Ce to attack Liu Yao, the governor of Yangzhou, and defeated Liu Yao. Sun Ce took the opportunity to occupy Jiangdong.
Sun Ce heard that Yuan Shu was about to claim the title of emperor, and wrote to Yuan Shu to dissuade him, saying: Dong Zhuo was cruel and cruel, bullying and cruel to the court, and poisoned the queen mother. His cruelty spread to Hongnong, the emperor was exiled, the palace and ancestral temple were burned down, so the heroes became angry and quickly rose up.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
元恶既毙，幼主东顾，乃使王人奉命，宣明朝恩，偃武修文，与之更始。
然而河北异谋于黑山，曹操毒被于东徐，刘表僭乱于南荆，公孙叛逆于朔北，正礼阻兵，玄德争盟，是以未获从命，橐弓戢戈。
当谓使君与国同规，而舍是弗恤，完然有自取之志，惧非海内企望之意也。成汤讨桀，称：有夏多罪 ；武王讨纣，曰 殷有重罚 。
此二王者，虽有圣德，假使时无失道之过，无由逼而取也。
今主上非有恶于天下，徒以幼小胁于强臣，异于汤、武之时也。
又闻幼主明智聪敏，有夙成之德，天下虽未被其恩，咸归心焉。
若辅而兴之，则旦、奭之美，率土所望也。
使君五世相承，为汉宰辅，荣宠之盛，莫与为比，宜效忠守节，以报王室。
时人多惑图纬之言，妄牵非类之文，苟以悦主为美，不顾成败之计，古今所慎，可不熟虑！
忠言逆耳，驳议致憎，苟有益于尊明，无所敢辞。
translation: 
After the death of the culprit Dong Zhuo, the young emperor returned eastward and sent envoys to obey the court's orders, publicize the court's kindness, demand an end to the war, cultivate civility, and start from scratch together with the court.
However, Yuan Shao in the north of the Yellow River united with the Black Mountain bandits for evil intentions. Cao Cao harmed his subordinate Xuzhou, Liu Biao in the south arrogated authority and caused trouble in Jingzhou, Gongsun Zan rebelled north of the Great Wall, Liu Yao used force to separate the regime, and Liu Bei fought for the alliance leader, so he failed to obey the order to put away his weapons and stop the war.
I thought you had the same idea as the country, but you left the country alone and fully embraced your own plan to conquer the world. This is probably not what the country expects of you. Cheng Tang attacked Jie and said that there were many crimes in Xia; King Wu of Zhou attacked Zhou and said that the Yin Dynasty had many crimes.
Although these two emperors had sage morals, if the emperors at that time had not committed immoral crimes, they would not have been able to conquer the world by force.
The current emperor is not guilty of any crime against the world, but because of his young age, he was coerced by violent ministers, which is different from the time of King Chengtang and Zhou Wu.
In addition, it is said that the young emperor is wise, intelligent, and has precocious talents. Although the world has not yet enjoyed the emperor's favor, everyone in the world obeys him.
If you assist the emperor and revitalize the court, you will have the virtues of Zhou Gongdan and Zhao Gongsi, which is the hope of the people in the world.
Your family has inherited the position of prime minister of the Han family for five generations. No one can compare with the prosperity of the dignitaries and favors. Therefore, you should be loyal to the court and maintain your integrity to repay the emperor.
Many contemporary people are deceived by the prophecies and prophecies, and add words and phrases that are completely different to each other indiscriminately, just to please their masters, regardless of the success or failure of the plan. This is something that has been done with caution since ancient times. How could we not seriously consider it!
Loyal advice may offend the ears, and different opinions may arouse hatred, but as long as it is beneficial to noble and wise people, I will not dare to hide it.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
术不纳，策遂绝之。
建安二年，因河内张炯符命，遂果僭号，自称 仲家 。
以九江太守为淮南尹，置公卿百官，郊祀天地。乃遣使以窃号告吕布，并为子娉布女。
布执术使送许。
术大怒，遣其将张勋、桥蕤攻布，大败而还。
术又率兵击陈国，诱杀其王宠及相骆俊，曹操乃自征之。
术闻大骇，即走度淮，留张勋、桥蕤于蕲阳，以拒操。
操击破斩蕤，而勋退走。
术兵弱，大将死，众情离叛，加天旱岁荒，士民冻馁，江、淮间相食殆尽。
时，舒仲应为术沛相，术以米十万斛与为军粮，仲应悉散以给饥民。
术闻怒，陈兵将斩之。
仲应曰： 知当必死，故为之耳。
宁可以一人之命，救百姓于涂炭。
术下马牵之曰： 仲应，足下独欲享天下重名，不与吾共之邪？
术虽矜名尚奇，而天性骄肆，尊己陵物。
及窃伪号，淫侈滋甚，媵御数百，无不兼罗纨，厌梁肉，自下饥困，莫之简恤。
translation: 
Yuan Shu couldn't listen, so Sun Ce cut off all contact with him.
In the second year of Jian'an, Yuan Shu used the talisman made up by Zhang Jiong from Hanoi to finally assume his name and call himself the "Zhong Family".
He appointed the prefect of Jiujiang as the Yin of Huainan, established a hundred officials, and held sacrifices to heaven and earth in the suburbs. He sent an envoy to tell Lu Bu about the arrogance of his name. And he married Lu Bu's daughter for his son.
Lu Bu captured Yuan Shu's envoy and sent him to Xu County.
Yuan Shu was furious and sent his generals Zhang Xun and Qiao Rui to attack Lu Bu and returned with a heavy defeat.
Yuan Shu then led his troops to attack Chen State, seducing and killing Chen King Liu Chong and Chen State Prime Minister Luo Jun. Cao Cao then personally conquered Yuan Shu.
Yuan Shu was very frightened when he found out, and immediately crossed the Huaihe River to escape, leaving Zhang Xun and Qiao Rui behind to resist Cao Cao in Qiyang.
Cao Cao defeated the two men and killed Qiao Rui. Zhang Xun retreated and fled.
Yuan Shu's army was weak, his main generals died, and everyone rebelled. Coupled with drought and poor harvests, the scholars and people suffered from hunger and cold, and the food along the Yangtze and Huaihe Rivers was almost exhausted.
At that time, Shu Zhong should serve as Yuan Shu's Prime Minister of Pei. Yuan Shu gave him 100,000 dendrobium rice as military rations. Shu Zhong should give all the food to the hungry people.
Yuan Shu was furious after hearing this and ordered his troops to kill him.
Zhong Ying said: I knew I must die, so I did this.
I am willing to sacrifice my own life to save the people from disaster and hardship.
Yuan Shu's horse held his hand and said: Zhong Ying, do you only want to enjoy the world's reputation for yourself, but are not willing to share it with me?
Although Yuan Shu was proud of his reputation and unpredictable, he was naturally proud and indulgent, arrogant and looked down upon others.
When the name was stolen, the debauchery and extravagance became increasingly serious. He had hundreds of concubines, all of whom were wearing silk clothes and eating delicacies. However, while his subordinates were hungry and poor, he never cared about them.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
于是资实空尽，不能自立。
四年夏，乃烧宫室，奔其部曲陈简、雷薄于灊山。复为简等所拒，遂大困穷，士卒散走。
忧懑不知所为，遂归帝号于绍，曰： 禄去汉室久矣，天下提挈，政在家门。
豪雄角逐，分割疆宇。
此与周末七国无异，唯强者兼之耳。
袁氏受命当王，符瑞炳然。
今君拥有四州，人户百万，以强则莫与争大，以位则无所比高。
曹操虽欲扶衰奖微，安能续绝运，起已灭乎！谨归大命，君其兴之。
绍阴然其计。
术因欲北至青州从袁谭，曹操使刘备徼之，不得过，复走还寿春。
六月，至江亭。
坐篑床而叹曰： 袁术乃至是乎！
因愤慨结病，欧血死。
妻子依故吏庐江太守刘勋。
孙策破勋，复见收视，术女入孙权宫，子曜仕吴为郎中。
论曰： 天命符验，可得而见，未可得而言也。
然大致受大福者，归于信顺乎！
夫事不以顺，虽强力广谋，不能得也。
谋不可得之事，日失忠信，变诈妄生矣。
况复苟肆行之，其以欺天乎！
虽假符僭称，归将安所容哉！
translation: 
In this way, all the property is used up and it is impossible to stand on one's own feet.
In the summer of the fourth year of Jian'an, Yuan Shu burned the palace and went to his subordinates Chen Jian and Lei Bo in Qianshan. He was rejected by Chen Jian and others. Finally, he was very poor and distressed, and the soldiers broke up and fled.
Yuan Shu was sad and angry, and didn't know what to do, so he gave the title to Yuan Shao and said: It has been a long time since the destiny of the Han Dynasty left the Han Dynasty. The government relies on the support of the people of the world and comes from selfish sources.
Heroes fight to chase and divide the territory.
This is no different from the Seven Kingdoms at the end of the Zhou Dynasty, only the stronger one annexed the others.
The Yuan family was destined to rule the world, and the auspiciousness of their destiny was outstanding.
Now you own four states and have a household registration of one million people. No one can compete with you in terms of power, and no one can be higher than you in terms of status.
Although Cao Cao wanted to support the weakened imperial court, how could he reconnect the broken destiny and revive the destroyed imperial court?
I respectfully send you my destiny in the hope that you will revive it.
Yuan Shao secretly agreed with Yuan Shu's view. Yuan Shu wanted to go to Qingzhou and seek refuge with Yuan Tan. Cao Cao asked Liu Bei to block his way, but Yuan Shu couldn't get through and returned to Shouchun.
In June, we arrived at Jiangting.
Yuan Shu sat on the bamboo bed and sighed and said: Is this what Yuan Shu has done?
Yuan Shu became ill due to his anger, vomited blood and died.
His wife and children took refuge with Yuan Shu's former subordinate Liu Xun, the governor of Lujiang.
Sun Ce defeated Liu Xun, and they were taken in and taken care of by Sun Ce. Yuan Shu's daughter was selected into Sun Quan's harem, and his son Yuan Yao served as a doctor in the state of Wu.
On the Sun: The signs of destiny come true, which can be seen but cannot be expressed.
However, people who are generally destined to receive destiny probably attribute it to their faith and obedience!
If you don't do things according to the Tao, even if you are powerful and resourceful, you will not be able to obtain destiny.
Trying to get something that is impossible to obtain, gradually losing loyalty and trustworthiness, and turning into treacherous things happen.
What's more, if you do it with indulgence, is it used to deceive God?
Although he used the talisman to claim the title of emperor, how could he be tolerated by others if he returned it?


Chunk 10: 
original: 
吕布字奉先，五原九原人也。
以弓马骁武给并州。
刺史丁原为骑都尉，屯河内，以布为主簿，甚见亲待。
灵帝崩，原受何进召，将兵诣洛阳，为执金吾。
会进败，董卓诱布杀原而并其兵。
卓以布为骑都尉，誓为父子，甚爱信之。
稍迁至中郎将，封都亭侯。
卓自知凶恣，每怀猜畏，行止常以布自卫。
尝小失卓意，卓拔手戟掷之。
布拳捷得免，而改容顾谢，卓意亦解。
布由是阴怨于卓。
卓又使布守中阁，而私与傅婢情通，益不自安。因往见司徒王允，自陈卓几见杀之状。
时允与尚书仆射士孙瑞密谋诛卓，因以告布，使为内应。
布曰： 如父子何？
曰： 君自姓吕，本非骨肉。
今忧死不暇，何谓父子？
掷戟之时，岂有父子情也？
布遂许之，乃于门刺杀卓，事已见《卓传》。
允以布为奋威将军，假节，仪同三司，封温侯。
translation: 
◆The biography of Lu Bu, Lu Bu, courtesy name Fengxian, was a native of Wuyuan and Jiuyuan.
Because of his strong martial arts skills and bravery in combat, he served in Bingzhou.
The governor Ding Yuan served as the cavalry captain and was stationed in Hanoi. He appointed Lu Bu as chief administrator and was very close to him.
When Emperor Ling died, Ding Yuan was summoned by He Jin and led his army to Luoyang to serve as Jinwu.
When He Jin was defeated, Dong Zhuo lured Lu Bu to kill Ding Yuan and annex his troops.
Dong Zhuo appointed Lü Bu as the Cavalry Commander, and swore to him that they would become father and son. He admired and trusted him very much.
Soon, Lu Bu was promoted to Zhonglang General and was named Dutinghou.
Dong Zhuo knew that he was vicious and indulgent, and he was always suspicious and fearful. He often asked Lu Bu to protect him when he went out to stay.
Lü Bu once made Dong Zhuo unhappy, so Dong Zhuo pulled out a small halberd and threw it at Lü Bu.
Lu Bu was able to avoid the encounter with his quick movements, and apologized with a smile on his face, so Dong Zhuo felt calm.
But from then on Lu Bu secretly hated Dong Zhuo.
Dong Zhuo asked Lü Bu to guard the central gate, but Lü Bu secretly had an affair with Dong Zhuo's maid. He became increasingly uneasy, so he went to see Situ Wang Yun and told Wang Yun how he was almost killed by Dong Zhuo.
At that time, Wang Yunzheng secretly planned to kill Dong Zhuo with his servant Sun Rui, so he told Lu Bu about the situation and asked him to act as an internal coordinator.
Lu Bu said: How to deal with the relationship between father and son?
Wang Yun said: Your own surname is Lu, so you are not your own flesh and blood.
Now I don’t even have time to think about death, so how can I care about the relationship between father and son?
When Dong Zhuo threw his halberd at you, was there any affection between father and son?
Lu Bu agreed to Wang Yun and stabbed Dong Zhuo to death at the gate of Hemen. The incident has been seen in "The Biography of Dong Zhuo".
Wang Yun appointed Lu Bu as General Fenwei. He was assigned the title of Marquis of Wen.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
允既不赦凉州人，由是卓将李傕等遂相结，还攻长安。
布与傕战，败，乃将数百骑，以卓头系马鞍，走出武关，奔南阳。
布自恃杀卓，有德袁氏，遂恣兵抄掠。
术患之。布不安，复去从张杨于河内。
时李傕等购募求布急，杨下诸将皆欲图之。
布惧，谓杨曰： 与卿州里，今见杀，其功未必多。
不如生卖布，可大得傕等爵宠。
杨以为然。
有顷，布得走投袁绍，绍与布击张燕于常山。
燕精兵万余，骑数千匹。
布常御良马，号曰赤菟，能驰城飞堑，与其健将成廉、魏越等数十骑驰突燕阵，一日或至三四，皆斩首而出。
连战十余日，遂破燕军。
布既恃其功，更请兵于绍，绍不许，而将士多暴横，绍患之。
布不自安，因求还洛阳。
绍听之，承制使领司隶校尉，遣壮士送布而阴使杀之。
布疑其图己，乃使人鼓筝于帐中，潜自遁出。
夜中兵起，而布已亡。
绍闻，惧为患，募遣追之，皆莫敢逼，遂归张杨。
道经陈留，太守张邈遣使迎之，相待甚厚，临别把臂言誓。
translation: 
Since Wang Yun refused to pardon the Liangzhou people, Dong Zhuo's general Li Cui and others joined forces with each other and turned their forces to attack Chang'an.
Lu Bu failed in the battle with Li Cui, so he led hundreds of cavalry, tied Dong Zhuo's head to the saddle, escaped from Wuguan, and rushed to Nanyang.
Yuan Shu treated Lu Bu very well, and Lu Bu relied on himself to kill Dong Zhuo. If you are kind to the Yuan family, you will indulge your subordinates in looting.
Yuan Shu had a headache, and Lu Bu felt uneasy, so he left Yuan Shu and went to Hanoi to join Zhang Yang.
At that time, Li Jie and others were very concerned about offering a reward for Lv Bu's capture, and Zhang Yang's generals were all plotting against Lv Bu.
Lu Bu was afraid and said to Zhang Yang: I am from the same hometown as you. If you kill me now, you may not get much credit.
It's better to sacrifice me alive, so that I can gain the title and favor of Li Ji and others.
Zhang Yang thought Lu Bu was right.
Soon, Lu Bu was able to escape and defected to Yuan Shao. Yuan Shao and Lu Bu attacked Zhang Yan in Changshan.
Zhang Yan had more than 10,000 elite soldiers and several thousand cavalry.
Lu Bu often rode a good horse named Red Rabbit that could leap over city walls and fly across trenches. He and his fierce generals Cheng Lian, Wei Yue and dozens of others rode to attack Zhang Yan's military formation. Sometimes they went three or four times a day and came back each time with the enemy's heads chopped off.
After fighting for more than ten days, Zhang Yan's army was finally defeated.
Lu Bu relied on his military exploits and once again asked Yuan Shao to increase his army, but Yuan Shao refused. Most of Lu Bu's generals and soldiers were vicious and brutal, which gave Yuan Shao a headache.
Lu Bu felt uneasy and asked to return to Luoyang.
Yuan Shao agreed to his request and appointed Lu Bu as the Sili Xiaowei in the name of the emperor. He sent warriors to escort Lu Bu and secretly asked him to kill Lu Bu.
Lu Bu suspected that Yuan Shao was plotting against him, so he sent Jin to play the zheng in the camp while he quietly escaped.
When Yuan Shao's troops rushed towards him late at night, Lu Bu had already escaped.
After Yuan Shao found out, he was worried that Lu Bu would be harmful to him, so he sent people to chase Lu Bu with a reward, but none of them dared to approach Lu Bu, so that Lu Bu could surrender to Zhang Yang.
Passing by Chenliu on the way, the prefect Zhang Miao sent someone to meet Lu Bu and treated him well. When they were about to part, the two held each other's arms and vowed to be good friends.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
邈字孟卓，东平人，少以侠闻。
初辟公府，稍迁陈留太守。
董卓之乱，与曹操共举义兵。
及袁绍为盟主，有骄色，邈正义责之。绍既怨邈，且闻与布厚，乃令曹操杀邈。
操不听，然邈心不自安。
兴平元年，曹操东击陶谦，令其将武阳人陈宫屯东郡。
宫因说邈曰： 今天下分崩，雄桀并起。君拥十万之众，当四战之地，抚剑顾眄，亦足以为人豪，而反受制，不以鄙乎！
今州军东征，其处空虚，吕布壮士，善虞无前，迎之共据兗州，观天下形势，俟时事变通，此亦从横一时也。
邈从之，遂与弟超及宫等迎布为兗州牧，据濮阳，郡县皆应之。
曹操闻而引军击布，累战，相持百余日。
是时，旱、蝗，少谷，百姓相食，布移屯山阳。
二年间，操复尽收诸城，破布于钜野，布东奔刘备。
邈诣袁术求救，留超将家属屯雍丘。
操围超数月，屠之，灭其三族。
邈未至寿春，为其兵所害。
时，刘备领徐州，居下邳，与袁术相拒于淮上。
术欲引布击备，乃与布书曰： 术举兵诣阙，未能屠裂董卓。
将军诛卓，为术报耻，功一也。
昔金元休南至封丘，为曹操所败。将军伐之，令术复明目于遐迩，功二也。
术生年以来，不闻天下有刘备，备乃举兵与术对战。
凭将军威灵，得以破备，功三也。
将军有三大功在术，术虽不敏，奉以死生。
translation: 
◆Zhang Miao, courtesy name Meng Zhuo, was from Shuping. He was known as a chivalrous person since childhood.
At first he was summoned by the government, and soon he was promoted to the prefect of Chenliu.
During Dong Zhuo's rebellion, Zhang Miao and Cao Cao raised rebels together.
When Yuan Shao became the leader of the alliance and showed a proud look, Zhang Miao rebuked Yuan Shao with his upright morality. Yuan Shao already resented Zhang Miao and learned that he had a close relationship with Lu Bu, so he asked Cao Cao to kill Zhang Miao.
Cao Cao ignored him, but Zhang Miao felt uneasy.
The first year of Xingping. Cao Cao went east to attack Tao Qian and sent general Chen Gong from Wuyang to garrison Cambodia County.
Chen Gong took the opportunity to persuade Zhang Miao: Now the world is divided and heroes are rising at the same time. You have a team of 100,000 people. You are in a place where you can fight on all sides. You can look down on the world with your sword. You can be a hero among people, but you are controlled by others. Isn't it too despicable?
Now the troops in this state are at war, and the land is empty. Lu Bu is a fierce warrior, good at fighting, and brave and invincible. Take him and occupy Yanzhou together, wait and see the situation in the world, and wait for the changes in the current situation. This can last for a lifetime.
Zhang Miao listened to Chen Gong's advice, so he, his younger brother Zhang Chao, Chen Gong and others welcomed Lu Bu and asked him to be the herdsman of Yanzhou and occupy Puyang. All counties and counties of Yanzhou responded.
After Cao Cao found out, he led his army to attack Lu Bu. The two sides fought many times and lasted for more than a hundred days.
At this time, there was a drought, locusts were infested, food was insufficient, and people began to eat people. Lu Bu moved his troops to Shanyang and garrisoned them.
In the second year of Xingping, Cao Cao regained all the cities in Yanzhou and defeated Lu Bu in Juye. Lu Bu fled to Liu Bei.
Zhang Miao went to Yuan Shu's house to ask for help, leaving Zhang Chao with his family and subordinates to garrison Yongqiu.
Cao Cao surrounded Zhang Chao for several months and killed Zhang Chao and the Zhang family.
Zhang Miao was killed by his soldiers before he arrived in Shouchun.
At this time, Liu Bei led Xuzhou Mu and lived in Xiapi, and he and Yuan Shu were confronting each other on the Huaihe River.
Yuan Shu wanted to unite with Lu Bu to attack Liu Bei, so he wrote to Lu Bu, saying: I sent troops to the capital, but failed to kill Dong Zhuo and dismembered him.
The general killed Dong Zhuo and avenged Yuan Shu. This was his first credit.
Once upon a time, Jin Yuanxiu went south to Fengqiu and was defeated by Cao Cao. The general's attack on Cao Cao made my eyes bright and I could see clearly both far and near. This is the second credit.
Since Yuan Shu was born, he has never heard of Liu Bei in the world, but Liu Bei actually sent troops to fight with me.
With the general's power, he was able to defeat Liu Bei. This is the third achievement.
The general has three great contributions to Yuan Shu. Although Yuan Shu has no talent, he is willing to serve you until his death.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
将军连年攻战，军粮苦少，今送米二十万斛。
非唯此止，当骆驿复致。
凡所短长亦唯命。
布得书大悦，即勒兵袭下邳，获备妻子。
备败走海西，饥困，请降于布。
布又恚术运粮不复至，乃具车马迎备，以为豫州刺史，遣屯小沛。
布自号徐州牧。
术惧布为己害，为子求婚，布复许之。
术遣将纪灵等步骑三万以攻备，备求救于布。
诸将谓布曰： 将军常欲杀刘备，今可假手于术。
布曰： 不然。
术若破备，则北连太山，吾为在术围中，不得不救也。
便率步骑千余，驰往赴之。
灵等闻布至，皆敛兵而止。
布屯沛城外，遣人招备，并请灵等与共飨饮。
布谓灵曰： 玄德，布弟也，为诸君所困，故来救之。
布性不喜合斗，但喜解斗耳。
乃令军候植戟于营门，布弯弓顾曰： 诸君观布谢戟小支，中者当各解兵，不中可留决斗。
布即一发，正中戟支。
translation: 
The general has been fighting for years and has suffered from insufficient military rations. Now he has sent 200,000 hu of rice.
This is not the end, food will continue to be sent.
It's up to you to accept it or not.
Lu Bu was very happy when he received the letter, and immediately deployed his troops to attack Xiapi and captured Liu Bei's wife and children.
Liu Bei was defeated and fled to Haixi. Hungry and exhausted, he asked Lu Bu to surrender.
Lu Bu was angry that Yuan Shu stopped bringing grain, so he prepared chariots and horses to welcome Liu Bei, appointed Liu Bei as the governor of Yuzhou, and sent him to garrison Xiaopei.
Lu Bu called himself Xuzhou Mu.
Yuan Shu was afraid that Lü Bu would harm him and proposed marriage for his son, but Lü Bu agreed again.
Yuan Shu sent general Ji Ling and others with 30,000 infantry and cavalry to attack Liu Bei. Liu Bei asked Lu Bu for help.
The generals said to Lu Bu: The general often wants to kill Liu Bei, now he can be killed by Yuan Shu.
Lu Bu said: No.
If Yuan Shu defeats Liu Bei, the north will be connected to Mount Tai. I am surrounded by Yuan Shu, so I have to rescue him.
So he led more than a thousand infantry and cavalry and rode to that place.
When Ji Ling and others heard that Lu Bu had arrived, they all put away their weapons and stopped attacking.
Lu Bu was stationed outside Peixian County, sent someone to call Liu Bei, and invited Ji Ling and others to drink and dine with him.
Lu Bu said to Ji Ling: Xuande is my brother. He is embarrassed by you, so I came to save him.
I, Lu Bu, don't naturally like to bring others together to use force. I only like to persuade others to stop using force.
So he ordered the officers who were maintaining military discipline to set up the halberd at the gate of the military camp. Lvula turned around and said, "Look at the twigs on the halberd. If I hit it, you should stop fighting each other. If you don't hit it, you can stay and fight."
Lu Bu then shot an arrow and hit the branch on the halberd.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
灵等皆惊，言 将军天威也 。
明日复欢会，然后各罢。
术遣韩胤以僭号事告布，因求迎妇，布遣女随之。
沛相陈珪恐术报布成姻，则徐、杨合从，为难未已。
于是往说布曰： 曹公奉迎天子，辅赞国政，将军宜与协助同策谋，共存大计。今与袁术结姻，必受不义之名，将有累卵之危矣。
布亦素怨术，而女已在涂，乃追还绝婚，执胤送许，曹操杀之。
陈珪欲使子登诣曹操，布固不许，会使至，拜布为左将军，布大喜，即听登行，并令奉章谢恩。
登见曹操，因陈布勇而无谋，轻于去就，宜早图之。
操曰： 布狼子野心，诚难久养，非卿莫究其情伪。
即增珪秩中二千石，拜登广陵太守。
临别，操执登手曰： 东方之事，便以相付。
令阴合部众，以为内应。
始布因登求徐州牧，不得。
登还，布怒，拔戟斫机曰： 卿父劝吾协同曹操，绝婚公路。
今吾所求无获，而卿父子并显重，但为卿所卖耳。
登不为动容，徐对之曰： 登见曹公，言养将军譬如养虎，当饱其肉，不饱则将噬人。
公曰： 不如卿言。
譬如养鹰，饥即为用，饱则飏去。
其言如此。
布意乃解。
translation: 
Ji Ling and others were surprised and said, "The general is mighty."
The next day they had another joyful gathering, and then each withdrew his troops.
Yuan Shu sent Han Yin to tell Lü Bu about the arrogance and asked to take his daughter-in-law away. Lü Bu asked his daughter to go with Han Yin.
Chen Gui, the Prime Minister of Pei State, was worried that Yuan Shu and Lu Bu would marry, and Xuzhou and Yangzhou would join forces, which would cause endless disasters.
So he went to persuade Lu Bu and said: Duke Cao welcomes the emperor and assists in government affairs. It is best for the general to work together with Duke Cao and discuss together for the sake of the country. If he marries Yuan Shu now, he will definitely bear the reputation of injustice and will be in danger of laying eggs.
Lu Bu also complained about Yuan Shu, but his daughter was already on the road, so he chased her back, broke off the marriage, captured Han Yin and sent him to Xu County, where Cao Cao killed Han Yin.
Chen Gui wanted to send his son Chen Deng to see Cao Cao, but Lv Bu refused to agree. Just as the imperial envoy arrived, he granted Lv Bu the position of general of the left. Lu Shi was very happy and immediately agreed to Chen Deng's journey, and asked him to bring Ding's memorial to thank the court for its grace.
When Chen Deng saw Cao Cao, he told him that Lu Bu was brave but lacked strategy and made rash decisions about defecting or defecting. He should be dealt with early.
Cao Cao said: Lu Bu has a vicious nature like a wolf cub. It is really difficult to raise him for a long time. No one but you knows his true condition.
Immediately, Chen Gui's salary was increased to two thousand dan, and Chen Deng was appointed as the prefect of Guangling.
When they were about to leave, Cao Cao held his hand and said, "I'll leave the matter of tying the border to you."
Ask him to gather people secretly as internal agents.
At first, Lu Bu was appointed as the shepherd of Xuzhou through Chen Deng, but he didn't get it.
When Chen Deng came back, Lü Bu got angry, pulled out his halberd and struck it on the table, saying: "Your father advised me to work together with Cao Cao to break off our marriage to Yuan Gongdao."
Now I haven't got what I asked for, but you and your son are both noble, and I was just betrayed by you.
Chen Deng remained calm and replied slowly: "I met Cao Gong and he said that raising a general is like raising a tiger. You should be fed with meat. If you are not fed enough, you will eat people."
Cao Gong said: It's not like what you said.
It's like raising an eagle, letting it be used by me when it's hungry, and flying away when it's full.
That's what Duke Cao said.
The unhappiness in Lu Bu's heart was finally eliminated.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
袁术怒布杀韩胤，遣其大将张勋、桥蕤等与韩暹、杨奉连势，步骑数万，七道攻布。
布时兵有三千，马四百匹，惧其不敌，谓陈珪曰： 今致术军，卿之由也，为之奈何？
珪曰： 暹、奉与术，卒合之师耳。
谋无素定，不能相维。
子登策之，比于连鸡，势不俱栖，立可离也。
布用珪策，与暹、奉书曰： 二将军亲拔大驾，而布手杀董卓，俱立功名，当垂竹帛。
今袁术造逆，宜共诛讨，奈何与贼还来伐布？
可因今者同力破术，为国除害，建功天下，此时不可失也。
又许破术兵，悉以军资与之。
暹、奉大喜，遂共击勋等于下邳，大破之，生禽桥蕤，余众溃走，其所杀伤、墯水死者殆尽。
时，太山臧霸等攻破莒城，许布财币以相结，而未及送，布乃自往求之。
其督将高顺谏止曰： 将军威名宣播，远近所畏，何求不得，而自行求赂。
万一不克，岂不损邪？
translation: 
Yuan Shu was angry that Lu Bu had killed Han Yin, so he sent his generals Zhang Xun, Qiao Rui and others to cooperate with Han Xian and Yang Feng, leading tens of thousands of infantry and cavalry to attack Lu Bu in seven directions.
At that time, Lu Bu only had 3,000 troops and 400 horses. He was worried that he would not be able to withstand the attack, so he said to Chen Gui: You are responsible for recruiting Yuan Shu's troops. What do you think we should do?
Chen Gui said: Han Xian, Yang Feng and Yuan Shu were just troops gathered in a hurry.
There was no definite strategy in the first place and it was impossible to maintain each other.
My son Chen Deng calculated that they were like chickens lined up in a queue, unable to roost together, and they would soon be separated.
Lu Bu adopted Chen Gui's strategy and wrote to Han Xian and Yang Feng, saying: The two generals rescued the emperor with their own hands, and I killed Dong Zhuo with my own hands. Together we will establish a reputation and will leave a mark in history.
Now that Yuan Shu is rebelling, we should attack him together. Why do you and the bandits come here to attack me?
But now we can join forces to defeat Yuan Shu, eliminate harm to the country, and build merit for the world. This opportunity cannot be lost.
He also promised that after defeating Yuan Shu's army, the general would give them all the money and food.
Han Xian and Yang Feng were very happy, so they attacked Zhang Xun and others in Xiapi and captured Qiao Rui alive. The rest of the troops fled. Many people were killed and wounded, fell into the water and drowned, and almost the entire army was wiped out.
At that time, Xianba and others from Taishan conquered Jucheng and promised to give Lu Bu property and coins to befriend Lu Bu, but before they could send them in time, Lu Bu went to ask for them in person.
Lu Bu's commander-in-chief, Gao Shun, advised him not to go, saying: "The reputation of the general has spread, and people near and far are afraid of you. What do you want that you cannot get? Instead, you go to ask for the goods in person?"
If you don't get it, won't it damage your reputation?


Chunk 16: 
original: 
布不从。
既至莒，霸等不测往意，固守拒之，无获而还。
顺为人清白有威严，少言辞，将众整齐，每战必克。
布性决易，所为无常。
顺每谏曰： 将军举动，不肯详思，忽有失得，动辄言误。误事岂可数乎？
布知其忠而不能从。
建安三年，布遂复从袁术，遣顺攻刘备于沛，破之。
曹操遣夏侯惇救备，为顺所败。
操乃自将击布，至下邳城下。
遗布书，为陈祸福。
布欲降，而陈宫等自以负罪于操，深沮其计，而谓布曰： 曹公远来，势不能久。将军若以步骑出屯于外，宫将余众闭守于内。
若向将军，宫引兵而攻其背；若但攻城，则将军救于外。
不过旬月，军食毕尽，击之可破也。
布然之。
布妻曰： 昔曹氏待公台如赤子，犹舍而归我。
今将军厚公台不过于曹氏，而欲委全城，捐妻、子，孤军远出乎？
若一旦有变，妾岂得为将军妻哉！
布乃止。而潜遣人求救于袁术，自将千余骑出。战败走还，保城不敢出。
术亦不能救。
曹操堑围之，壅沂、泗以灌其城，三月，上下离心。
translation: 
Lu Bu didn't listen.
Having arrived at Jucheng, Zang Ba and others did not know Lu Bu's intention, so they stood firm in Jucheng and refused Lu Bu. As a result, Lu Bu came back without getting anything.
Gao Shun was clean, dignified in appearance, rarely spoke, and commanded his troops neatly. He was sure to win every battle.
Lu Bu is born to make decisions or change his opinions at will, and his actions are unpredictable.
Gao Shun often advised: "The general refuses to think carefully when doing things, often makes mistakes, and always makes mistakes in what he says and does."
Can mistakes happen again and again? Lu Bu understood Gao Shun's loyalty but refused to accept it.
In the third year of Jian'an, Lu Bu finally defected to Yuan Shu and sent Gao Shun to attack Liu Bei in Peixian County and defeated Liu Bei.
Cao Cao sent Xiahou Dun to rescue Liu Bei, but was defeated by Gao Shun.
Cao Cao then personally led his troops to attack Lu Bu, and the troops arrived at Xiapi City.
Cao Cao sent a letter to Lu Bu, telling him about the blessings and misfortunes.
Lü Bu wanted to surrender, but Chen Gong and others tried their best to sabotage Lü Bu's plan because they were guilty of Cao Cao. They also said to Lü Bu: Duke Cao is coming in a hurry, and the situation cannot last long. If the general uses infantry and cavalry to station outside the city, I will lead the rest of the troops to close the city gate and guard it.
If Cao Cao attacks the general, I will lead my troops to attack Cao Jun from behind; if Cao Cao only attacks the city, the general will rescue him from outside.
In less than a month, Cao Cao's army will run out of food, and they can launch an attack to defeat Cao Cao.
Lu Bu agreed with him.
Lu Bu's wife said: In the past, Cao treated Chen Gongtai as carefully as he treated a baby, but Chen Gong still abandoned Cao Cao and took refuge with us.
Now the general's benefits to Gongtai are not greater than those of the Cao family, but he plans to leave the whole city, his wife and children and go far away alone?
If something unexpected happens, can I still become the general's wife?
So Lu Bu gave up, but secretly sent someone to ask Yuan Shu for help, and personally led more than a thousand cavalry out of the city. After being defeated, he returned to the city, holding the city and not daring to go out.
Yuan Shu could not rescue him either.
Cao Cao dug deep ditches around the city and blocked up the Yishui and Swimming rivers to flood Xiapi City. Three months later, the whole city rebelled.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
其将侯成使客牧其名马，而客策之以叛。
成追客得马，诸将合礼以贺成。
成分酒肉，先入诣布而言曰： 蒙将军威灵，得所亡马，诸将齐贺，未敢尝也，故先以奉贡。
布怒曰： 布禁酒而卿等醖酿，为欲因酒共谋布邪？
成忿惧，乃与诸将共执陈宫、高顺，率其众降。
布与麾下登白门楼。
兵围之急，令左右取其首诣操。
左右不忍，乃下降。
布见操曰： 今日已往，天下定矣。
操曰： 何以言之？
布曰： 明公之所患不过于布，今已服矣。
令布将骑，明公将步，天下不足定也。
顾谓刘备曰： 玄德，卿为坐上客，我为降虏，绳缚我急，独不可一言邪？
操笑曰： 缚虎不得不急。
乃令缓布缚。刘备曰： 不可。
明公不见吕布事丁建阳、董太师乎？
操颔之。
布目备曰： 大耳兒最叵信！
操谓陈宫曰： 公台平生自谓智有余，今意何如？
宫指布曰： 是子不用宫言，以至于此。
translation: 
Lu Bu's general Hou Cheng asked his retainer to graze his famous horse, but the retainer defected on horseback.
Hou Cheng chased the retainer and recovered the horse. The generals made up gifts to congratulate Hou Cheng.
Hou Cheng made some wine and meat, and went to meet Lü Bu first and said: "With the general's power, the lost horse was recovered. The generals came to congratulate me, but I didn't dare to try it, so I gave it to you first."
Lu Bu got angry and said: I forbid drinking, and you are planning together. Do you want to take advantage of drinking to influence me?
Hou Cheng was disgusted and afraid, so he and other generals captured Chen Gong and Gao Shun, and led his men to surrender.
Lu Bu and his men boarded the Baimen Tower.
As the soldiers surrounded him tightly, Lu Bu asked those around him to cut off his head and go to see Cao Cao.
The people around him couldn't bear it, so they went downstairs to surrender.
Lu Bu saw Cao Cao and said: From now on, the world will be peaceful.
Cao Cao said: Why do you say that?
Lu Bu said: There is no one you worry about more than me, Lu Bu. I have surrendered now.
Let me command the cavalry and you command the infantry, and the world will be pacified easily.
Then he turned to Liu Bei and said, "Xuande, you are a guest here, and I am a surrendered prisoner." I am tied too tightly with the rope. Can't you say something for me?
Cao Cao smiled and said: The tiger must be tied tightly.
So he ordered Lu Bu's rope to be tied loosely. Liu Bei said: No.
Didn't you see that Lu Bu served Ding Jianyang and Dong Taishi?
Cao Cao shook his head.
Lu Bu looked at Liu Bei and said: You guy with big ears is the most unbelievable!
Cao Cao said to Chen Gong: Gongtai thought he was resourceful all his life, what do you think now?
Chen Gong pointed at Lu Bu and said, "This man did not accept my opinion, and that's why he got to this point."


Chunk 18: 
original: 
若见从，未可量也。 操又曰： 奈卿老母何？
宫曰： 老母在公，不在宫也。
夫以孝理天下者，不害人之亲。
操复曰： 奈卿妻、子何？
宫曰： 宫闻霸王之主，不绝人之祀。
固请就刑，遂出不顾，操为之泣涕。
布及宫、顺皆缢杀之，传首许市。
赞曰：焉作庸牧，以希后福。
曷云负荷？地堕身逐。术既叨贪，布亦翻覆。
translation: 
If you take my word for it, the results are hard to predict. Cao Cao said: What should I do with your old mother?
Chen Gong said: Old mother depends on you and not on me.
It is said that those who govern the world with filial piety will not kill other people's parents.
Cao Cao then asked: What about your wife and children?
Chen Gong said: I heard that those who achieve the feats of overlord and emperor never stop others from offering incense and sacrifice.
Chen Gong insisted on being punished and walked out the door without looking back. Cao Cao shed tears for him.
Lu Bu, Chen Gong and Gao Shunquan were strangled to death, and their heads were sent to the Xu County market for public display.
Zan said: Liu Yan started to set up mediocre state pastors in the hope that he could enjoy happiness in the future. How can it be said that he relied on them?
The land was taken away, he was driven away, Yuan Shu was incompetent and greedy, and Lu Bu also failed.


