Chunk 0: 
original: 
郦食其，陈留高阳人也。
好读书，家贫落魄，无衣食业。
为里监门，然吏县中贤豪不敢役，皆谓之狂生。
及陈胜、项梁等起，诸将徇地过高阳者数十人，食其闻其将皆握龊好荷礼自用，不能听大度之言，食其乃自匿。
后闻沛公略地陈留郊，沛公麾下骑士适食其里中子，沛公时时问邑中贤豪。
骑士归，食其见，谓曰： 吾闻沛公嫚易人，有大略，此真吾所愿从游，莫为我先。
若见沛公，谓曰 臣里中有郦生，年六十余，长八尺，人皆谓之狂生，自谓我非狂。
骑士曰： 沛公不喜儒，诸客冠儒冠来者，沛公辄解其冠，溺其中。
与人言，常大骂。未可以儒生说也。
食其曰： 第言之。
骑士从容言食其所戒者。
translation: 
Li Shiqi was born in Gaoyang, Chenliu County.
He likes to study, but his family is poor and he has no job to obtain food and clothing.
He worked as a gatekeeper for the village, but neither the officials nor the powerful people in the county dared to use him, thinking that he was a wild young man.
When Chen Sheng, Xiang Liang and others revolted, various generals captured many areas. Dozens of them passed through Gaoyang County. Li Shiqi heard that these generals were narrow-minded, rigid about trivial etiquette, self-righteous, and unable to listen to good advice, so Li Shiqi hid.
Later, I heard that Pei Gong led his army to the suburbs of Chenliu. There was a cavalryman under Pei Gong who happened to be Li Shiqi's fellow villager. Pei Gong often asked him whether there were sages and heroes in the city.
When the knight returned home, Li Shiqi said to him: I heard that Pei Gong was arrogant and contemptuous of others, but he was very far-sighted. This is really the person I want to associate with. Let me introduce him first.
If you see Pei Gong, tell him: There is a gentleman named Li in my hometown, who is over sixty years old and eight feet tall. People think he is arrogant, but he himself said that I am not frivolous.
The cavalry said: Pei Gong does not like to associate with scholars. If any of the invited guests wears a Confucian hat, Pei Gong will take off his hat and urinate in the hat.
When talking to people, they often curse scholars, so don't talk like a Confucian scholar.
Li Shiqi said: Just say so.
The cavalryman calmly explained to Pei Gong as Li Shiqi had warned him.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
沛公至高阳传舍，使人召食其。食其至，入谒，沛公方踞床令两女子洗，而见食其。
食其入，即长揖不拜，曰： 足下欲助秦攻诸侯乎？
欲率诸侯破秦乎？
沛公骂曰： 竖儒！
夫天下同苦秦久矣，故诸侯相率攻秦，何谓助秦？
食其曰： 必欲聚徒合义兵诛无道秦，不宜踞见长者。
于是沛公辍洗，起衣，延食其上坐，谢之。
食其因言六国从衡时，沛公喜，赐食其食，问曰： 计安出？
食其曰： 足下起瓦合之卒，收散乱之兵，不满万人，欲以径人强秦，此所谓探虎口者也。
夫陈留，天下之冲，四通五达之郊也，今其城中又多积粟，臣知其令，今请使，令下足下。
即不听，足下举兵攻之，臣为内应。
于是遣食其往，沛公引兵随之，遂下陈留。
号食其为广野君。
食其言弟商，使将数千人从沛公西南略地。
食其常为说客，驰使诸侯。
translation: 
Pei Gong arrived at the official residence in Gaoyang County and sent someone to summon Li Shiqi. When Li Shiqi arrived, Pei Gong sat on the bed and asked two women to wash his feet. This was how he summoned Li Shiqi.
When Li Shiqi entered the room, he handed over his hands without bowing and said: "Do you want to help Qin attack the princes?"
Or do you want to lead the princes to destroy the Qin Dynasty?
Pei Gong scolded: You despicable Confucian scholar!
The people of the world have suffered from Qin for a long time, so the princes led their troops to attack Qin one after another. How can you say you are helping Qin?
Li Shiqi said: If you want to gather the people and rally the rebels to overthrow the tyrannical rule of Qin, you should not sit by the bedside and summon the old man.
So Pei Gong stopped washing his feet, got up, put on his clothes, asked Li Shi to sit on his seat, and apologized to Li Shi.
Li Shiqi then talked about the situation when the six countries united. Pei Gong was very happy, gave Li food to eat, and asked: "Do you have any good plans?"
Li Shiqi said: You have gathered less than 10,000 untrained men. If you want to directly attack the powerful Qin State, it can be said that you are putting your hand into the tiger's mouth!
Chenliu County is located at the heart of the world and is connected in all directions. Now there is a lot of food stored in the city. I have always been friendly with the magistrate of Chenliu. Now please appoint me as your envoy to order him to surrender.
If he doesn't obey, you send troops to attack him, and I will respond internally.
So he sent Li Shiqi to Chenliu County, and Pei Gong led his troops to follow him, and finally captured Chenliu.
Pei Gong granted Li Shi the title of Lord of Guangye.
Li Shiqi recommended his younger brother Li Shang to lead thousands of people to follow Peigong to the southwest to seize land.
Li Shiqi often worked as a lobbyist, traveling among the princes to lobby.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
汉三年秋，项羽击汉，拔荥阳，汉兵遁保巩。
楚人闻韩信破赵，彭越数反梁地，则分兵救之。
韩信方东击齐，汉王数困荥阳、成皋，计欲捐成皋以东，屯巩、雒以距楚。
食其因曰： 臣闻之，知天之天者，王事可成；不知天之天者，王事不可成。
王者以民为天，而民以食为天。
夫敖仓，天下转输久矣，臣闻其下乃有臧粟甚多。
楚人拔荥阳，不坚守敖仓，乃引而东，令適卒分守成皋，此乃天所以资汉。
方今楚易取而汉后却，自夺便，臣窃以为过矣。
且两雄不俱立，楚、汉久相持不决，百姓骚动，海内摇荡，农夫释耒，红女下机，天下之心未有所定也。
translation: 
In the autumn of the third year of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu attacked the Han army and captured Rongyang. The Han army retreated to Gong County.
When the Chu army heard that Han Xin had captured Tongguo and that Peng Yue had repeatedly caused trouble in the Liang area, they divided their forces to rescue him.
When Han Xin just attacked Qi from the east, the king of Han was besieged in Rongyang and Chenggao many times. He planned to abandon the area bounded by Chenggao County and garrison Gongxian and Luoyang to fight against the Chu army.
Li Shiqi then said: I heard that those who know the reason why the sky is the sky can achieve the emperor's career; those who do not know the reason why the sky is the sky cannot succeed.
The king regards the people as his heaven, and the people regard food as their heaven.
Aocang has been a transportation hub in the world for a long time. I heard that Aocang has a lot of grain stored in it.
The Chu army captured Rongyang, but instead of holding on to Aocang, they marched eastward and left the punished soldiers to garrison in Chenggao. This was heaven coming to help the king of Han.
Now that the Chu army is easily captured and the Mo army is about to retreat, I have given up a favorable opportunity. I think I have gone too far.
Moreover, if the two heroes do not stand side by side, Chu and Han will be at war with each other for a long time. The people's lives will not be peaceful, the country will be in turmoil, farmers will not be able to farm, women will not be able to weave, and the people of the world will be uneasy.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
愿足下急复进兵，收取荥阳，据敖庚之粟，塞成皋之险，杜太行之道，距飞狐之口，守白马之津，以示诸侯形制之势，则天下知所归矣。
方今燕、赵已定，唯齐未下。
今田广据千里之齐，田间将二十万之众军于历城，诸田宗强，负海岱，阻河济，南近楚，齐人多变诈，足下虽遣数十万师，未可以岁月破也。
臣请得奉明诏说齐王使为汉而称东藩。
上曰： 善。 乃从其画，复守敖仓，而使食其说齐王，曰： 王知天下之所归乎？
曰： 不知也。
曰： 知天下之所归，则齐国可得而有也；若不知天下之所归，即齐国未可保也。
齐王曰： 天下何归？
食其曰： 天下归汉。
齐王曰： 先生何以言之？
曰： 汉王与项王戮力西面击秦，约先入咸阳者王之，项王背约不与，而王之汉中。
项王迁杀义帝，汉王起蜀汉之兵击三秦，出关而责义帝之负处，收天下之兵，立诸侯之后。
translation: 
I hope that the King of Han can march again as soon as possible, seize Rongyang, seize the grain of Aocang, block the danger of Chenggao, block the road of Taihang, seize the danger of Feihu, hold on to the crossing of Baima, show the princes that Mo has controlled the favorable situation, and the people of the world will know who to submit to.
Now the states of Yan and Zhao have been pacified, but only the state of Qi has not yet been conquered.
Now Tian Guang occupies the Qi State, which covers an area of ​​thousands of miles. Tian Jian commands an army of 200,000 and is stationed in Licheng. The Tian family is powerful, backed by the sea and Mount Tai, blocking the passage of the Yellow River and Jishui, and is approaching the Chu State in the south.
I ask for Shao Shu to persuade the King of Qi to make him Mo's neighbor. The king of Han said: Good!
The king of Han followed Li Shiqi's plan and stationed himself in Aocang. He also sent Li Shiqi to persuade the king of Qi, saying: "Does your Majesty know where the world belongs?"
King Qi said: I don’t know.
Li Shiqi said: If the king knows where the world belongs, then the state of Qi can be saved; if the king does not know where the world belongs, it will be difficult for the state of Qi to be saved.
King Qi said: Who should belong to the world?
Li Shiqi said: The world belongs to the King of Han.
King Qi said: Why do you say this, sir?
Li Shiqi said: The king of Han and Xiang Yu fought hard to attack the Qin army in the west, and they agreed to attack Xianyang first and become the king of Guanzhong. Xiang Yu broke the covenant and proclaimed himself king in Hanzhong.
King Xiang moved to kill Emperor Yi, and the king of Han sent the Shu Han army to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, went out to fight, accused Xiang Yu of his mistake in killing Emperor Yi, gathered soldiers from all over the world, and established the descendants of the princes.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
降城即以侯其将，得赂则以分其士，与天下同其利，豪英贤材皆乐为之用。
诸侯之兵四面而至，蜀汉之粟方船而下。
项王有背约之名，杀义帝之负；于人之功无所记，于人之罪无所忘；战胜而不得其赏，拔城而不得其封；非项氏莫得用事；为人刻印，玩而不能授；攻城得赂，积财而不能赏。
天下畔之，贤材怨之，而莫为之用。
故天下之士归于汉王，可坐而策也。
夫汉王发蜀汉，定三秦；涉西河之外，授上党之兵；下井陉，诛成安君；破北魏，举三十二城：此黄帝之兵，非人之力，天之福今。
今已据敖仓之粟，塞成皋之险，守白马之津，杜太行之厄，距飞狐之口，天下后服者先亡矣。
王疾下汉王，齐国社稷可得而保也；不下汉王，危亡可立而待也。
translation: 
Every city captured was given to the generals who surrendered and made a marquis. The property obtained by the King of Han was shared among the soldiers, and the benefits were shared with the people of the world. Heroes and wise men were willing to obey his use.
The armies of the princes arrived from all directions, and the food of the Shu Han Dynasty was transported by ship.
King Xiang was guilty of violating the covenant and killing the Righteous Emperor; he never remembered the achievements of others, but never forgot the mistakes of others; he was not rewarded for victory in battles, and he was not given titles for those who captured the city; he was not entrusted with important tasks if he was not a member of the Xiang family;
Everyone in the world rebelled against him, talented people complained about him, and no one was used by him.
Therefore, all the talented people in the world went to the King of Han, and the King of Han could command them from his seat.
The King of Han sent troops from the Shu Han Dynasty to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties; crossed the Xihe River; aided the troops of the Shangdang; captured Jingxing and killed Anjun; defeated the Northern Wei Dynasty and captured thirty-two cities: this was the Yellow Emperor's army, not manpower, but God's blessing.
Now that we have captured the grain of Aocang, blocked the danger of Chenggao, garrisoned the ferry of Baima, blocked the main road of Taihang, and occupied the pass of Feihu, all those who surrender in the world will have to be eliminated first.
If your Majesty surrenders to the King of Han quickly, the state of Qi can be preserved. If you don't surrender to the King of Han, danger and destruction are just around the corner.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
田广以为然，乃听食其，罢历下兵守战备，与食其日纵酒。
韩信闻食其冯轼下齐七十余城，乃夜度兵平原袭齐。
齐王田广闻汉兵至，以为食其卖己，乃亨食其，引兵走。
汉十二年，曲周侯郦商以丞相将兵击黥布，有功。
高祖举功臣，思食其。
食其子疥数将兵，上以其父故，封疥为高梁侯。
后更食武阳，卒，子遂嗣。
三世，侯平有罪，国除。
陆贾，楚人也。
以客从高祖定天下，名有口辩，居左右，常使诸侯。
时中国初定，尉佗平南越，因王之。
高祖使贾赐佗印为南越王。
贾至，尉佗魋结箕踞见贾。
贾因说佗曰： 足下中国人，亲戚昆弟坟墓在真定。
translation: 
Tian Guang thought it was right, so he listened to Li Shiqi's words, withdrew the guards and equipment from Lixia, and drank as much as he wanted with Li Shiqi every day.
Han Xin heard that Li Shiqi had obtained more than 70 cities in Qi through lobbying, so he sent troops across the plains overnight to attack Qi.
When King Tian Guang of Qi heard about the arrival of the Han army, he thought Li Shiqi had deceived him, so he killed him and fled with his troops.
In the twelfth year of the Han Dynasty, Li Shang, the Marquis of Quzhou, led his troops to attack Yingbu as prime minister and achieved great military exploits.
When Emperor Gaozu listed the heroes, he thought of Li Shiqi.
Li Shiqi's son, Li Shi, led troops into battle many times, but had little merit in battle and was not granted the title of Marquis. The emperor made Li Shi the Marquis of Gaoliang because of his father.
Later, Wuyang was renamed as a food town. After his death, his son Li Sui succeeded him.
Three generations later, Li Ping committed a crime and the feudal state was abolished.
Lu Jia, a native of Chu.
As a guest, he followed Gaozu to pacify the world. He was famous for his eloquence and eloquence. He often served as an envoy to the princes at Gaozu's side.
At that time, the country had just stabilized, and Wei Tuo pacified South Vietnam and became king there.
Emperor Gaozu sent Lu Jia to give Wei Tuo the seal and make him the king of South Vietnam.
When Lu Jia arrived, Wei Tuo sat down to receive him with his legs stretched out.
Lu Jia then said to Wei Tuo: "I am from the Central Plains, and the graves of my relatives and brothers are all in Zhending County."


Chunk 6: 
original: 
今足下反天性，弃冠带，欲以区区之越与天子抗衡为敌国，祸且及身矣。
夫秦失其正，诸侯豪桀并起，唯汉王先入关，据咸阳。
项籍背约，自立为西楚霸王，诸侯皆属，可谓至强矣。
然汉王起巴、蜀，鞭笞天下，劫诸侯，遂诛项羽。
五年之间，海内平定，此非人力，天之所建也。
天也闻君王王南越，而不助天下诛暴逆，将相欲移兵而诛王，天子怜百姓新劳苦，且休之，遣臣授君王印，剖符通使。
君王宜郊迎，北面称臣，乃欲以新造未集之越屈强于此。
汉诚闻之，掘烧君王先人冢墓，夷种宗族，使一偏将将十万众临越，即越杀王降汉，如反覆手耳。
于是佗乃蹶然起坐，谢贾曰： 居蛮夷中久，殊失礼义。
translation: 
Now that I have violated my customs and don't wear the clothes of the Central Plains, I want to become the king of the small Yue region, compete with the imperial court and become an enemy country, disaster is coming.
When Qin lost his power and the princes and heroes raised their armies, the King of Han was the first to enter Guanzhong and occupy Xianyang.
Xiang Ji broke the covenant and established himself as the overlord of Western Chu. All the princes belonged to him, which can be said to be very powerful.
However, the king of Han sent troops from Bashu to fight for the world and subdue the princes, so he killed Xiang Ji.
In the past five years, the country has been peaceful. This is not the result of human power, but the work of God.
The emperor heard that the emperor was proclaimed king in South Vietnam and did not help the people of the world to eliminate the tyrannical forces. The general originally wanted to send troops to kill the emperor, but the emperor took pity on the people who had just finished their hard work and needed to rest and recuperate, so he sent me to grant the emperor the seal, divide the talisman letters, and exchange envoys.
The king should go to the outskirts to welcome him, and to the north to proclaim his vassalship, but you actually want to use this newly-established country with unpopular hearts and unconsolidated political power to claim strength here.
If the King of Han really hears about it, he will dig up and burn the graves of your ancestors, annihilate your clan, and send a lieutenant general to lead a hundred thousand people to attack Yue. The Yue people will kill the king and surrender to the Han. It will be easy to conquer.
So Wei Tuo stood up in shock and apologized to Lu Jia: "I have lived among barbarians for a long time. It is really rude."


Chunk 7: 
original: 
因问贾曰： 我孰与萧何、曹参、韩信贤？
贾曰： 王似贤也。
复问曰： 我孰与皇帝贤？
贾曰 皇帝起丰沛，讨暴秦，诛强楚，为天下兴利除害，继五帝三王之业，统天下，理中国。
中国之人以亿计，地方万里，居天下之膏腴，人众车舆，万物殷富，政由一家，自天地剖判未始有也。
今王众不过数万，皆蛮夷，崎岖山海间，譬如汉一郡，王何乃比于汉！
佗大笑曰： 吾不起中国，故王此。
使我居中国，何遽不若汉？
乃大说贾，留与饮数月。
曰： 越中无足与语，至生来，令我日闻所不闻。
赐贾橐中装直千金，它送亦千金。
贾卒拜佗为南越王，令称臣奉汉约。
归报，高帝大说，拜贾为太中大夫。
translation: 
So he asked Lu Jia: Who is better among me, Xiao He, Cao Shen, and Han Xin?
Lu Mai said: The king is wiser than them.
He asked again: Who is more worthy than the emperor?
Lu Jia said: The emperor raised troops in Fengpei to attack the violent Qin, destroyed the powerful Chu army, brought benefits and eliminated harm to the people of the world, inherited the great cause of the five emperors and three kings, unified the world, and governed the country.
The Central Plains has hundreds of millions of people and thousands of miles of land. It is the most fertile land in the world. It has a large number of people, prosperous carriages and horses, rich everything, and unified political power. It has never been seen since the beginning of the world.
Now the king's population is only tens of thousands, and they are all barbarians. They are located between rugged mountains and seas, just like a county in Han Dynasty. How can the king compare with the king of Han?
Wei Tuo laughed and said: I did not raise troops in the Central Plains, so I became king here.
If I were in the Central Plains, how could I be inferior to the Han people?
So he liked Lu Jia very much and kept him feasting for several months.
Said: There is no one in South Vietnam who can talk to me. Since my husband came, I heard things I had never heard before.
The jewelry Lu bought as a reward was worth thousands of gold, and the other gifts he gave were also worth thousands of gold.
Lu Jia finally worshiped Wei Tuo as the King of Nanyue and asked him to surrender to the Han Dynasty and obey the orders of the Han Dynasty.
Lu Jia came back and reported that the emperor was very happy and worshiped Lu Mai as Taizhong doctor.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
贾时时前说称《诗》、《书》。
高帝骂之曰： 乃公居马上得之，安事《诗》、《书》！
贾曰： 马上得之，宁可以马上治乎？
且汤、武逆取而以顺守之，文帝并用，长久之术也。
昔者吴王夫差、智伯极武而亡；秦任刑法不变，卒灭赵氏。
乡使秦以并天下，行仁义，法先圣，陛下安得而有之？
高帝不怿，有惭色，谓贾曰： 试为我著秦所以失天下，吾所以得之者，及古成败之国。
贾凡著十二篇。
每奏一篇，高帝未尝不称善，左右呼万岁，称其书曰《新语》。
孝惠时，吕太后用事，欲王诸吕，畏大臣及有口者。
贾自度不能争之，乃病免。
以好畴田地善，往家焉。
有五男，乃出所使越橐中装，卖千金，分其子，子二百金，令为生产。
贾常乘安车驷马，从歌鼓瑟侍者十人，宝剑直百金，谓其子曰： 与女约：过女，女给人马酒食极欲，十日而更。
所死家，得宝剑车骑侍从者。
translation: 
Lu Jia often discussed "The Book of Songs" and "Book of Songs" in front of the emperor.
The emperor scolded him and said: You and I conquered the world on horseback, why do we study the Book of Songs and the Book of Documents?
Lu Mai said: If you can conquer the world on a horse, can you also rule the world on a horse?
Moreover, King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou used force to seize the world but defended it with benevolence and righteousness. The combination of civil and military forces is the long-term way to govern the country.
In the past, the kings of Wu, Fu Chai and Zhi Bo, perished because of their aggressive military tactics. The Qin State, which blindly used criminal laws without changing them, finally perished.
If Qin can practice benevolence and righteousness after unifying the world and imitate the ancient sages, how can your majesty conquer the world?
Emperor Gao looked displeased and ashamed, so he said to Lu Jia: Please try to write for me the reasons why Qin lost the world and I was able to gain it, and the situations of successful and failed countries since ancient times.
Lu Jia wrote a total of twelve articles.
Every time he wrote a memorial, the emperor thought it was well written. The officials on the left and right cheered long live and called Lu Jia's book "New Speech".
During the reign of Emperor Xiaohui, the Empress Dowager Lu was monopolizing power and wanted to make several people named Lu kings, but she was afraid of the ministers' disapproval.
Lu Mai knew that he could not argue with Empress Dowager Lu, so he went home sick.
Because the land was good, I moved there to settle down.
He had five sons, so he took out the jewelry and property he got when he was sent to South Vietnam, sold them for a thousand gold, and distributed them to his sons, each of them two hundred gold, for them to use for production.
Lu Jia often rides in chariots and horses, leads ten waiters who sing, dance and play piano, and also has a sword worth a hundred gold. He said to his son: I will agree with you on terms. Which house I go to, you have to give my people good food and wine, try to satisfy me, and change the house every ten days.
Whoever I die in will get this sword and chariots and horses.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
一岁中以往来过它客，率不过再过，数击鲜，毋久溷女为也。
吕太后时，王诸吕，诸吕擅权，欲劫少主，危刘氏。
右丞相陈平患之，力不能争，恐祸及己。平常燕居深念。
贾往，不请，直入坐，陈平方念，不见贾。
贾曰： 何念深也？
平曰： 生揣我何念？
贾曰： 足下位为上相，食三万户侯，可谓极富贵无欲矣。
然有忧念，不过患诸吕、少主耳。
陈平曰： 然。
为之奈何？
贾曰： 天下安，注意相；天下危，注意将。
将相和，则士豫附；士豫附，天下虽有变，则权不分。
权不分，为社稷计，在两君掌握耳。
臣常欲谓太尉绛侯，绛侯与我戏，易吾言。
君何不交驩太尉，深相结？
为陈平画吕氏数事。
translation: 
I have to be a guest in other places throughout the year. Each of your families will only take turns two or three times. When I am at your home, you must give me fresh food to eat. I will not disturb you for a long time.
When she was the Queen Mother, she allowed the Lu family to be king. The Lu family took over the power and planned to kidnap the young emperor and usurp the Liu family's world.
The right prime minister Chen Ping was very worried about this. He was not strong enough to compete with the Empress Dowager Lu, and he was afraid that it would harm himself, so he could only sit quietly and think deeply.
Lu Mai went to greet him, and he went into Chen Ping's room and sat down. Chen Ping was thinking about it and did not see Lu Mai.
Lu Mai said: What are you thinking about so deeply?
Chen Ping said: What do you think I am thinking?
Lu Mai said: "You are a prime minister, a feudal lord with 30,000 households in the city, you can be said to be extremely wealthy and you don't need anything."
However, if you are worried, you are just worried about Zhu Lu and the Young Emperor.
Chen Ping said: Yes.
What to do?
Lu Jia said: When the world is stable, everyone pays attention to the prime minister; when the world is in crisis, everyone pays attention to the general.
If the prime minister and the general unite, then the people will wholeheartedly submit to them; if the hearts of the people are united, even if there is chaos in the world, the power will not be divided.
Power is not divided, and the plan for the country is in the hands of two people.
I often want to talk to Taiwei Zhou Bo, but Zhou Bo, the Marquis of Jiang, always makes fun of me and does not pay attention to my words.
Why don't you interact more with the Taiwei and deepen our friendship?
Lu Jia also planned several events related to the Lu family for Chen Ping.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
平用其计，乃以五百金为绛侯寿，厚县乐饮太尉，太尉亦报如之。
两人深相结，吕氏谋益坏。
陈平乃以奴婢百人，车马五十乘，钱五百万，遗贾为食饮费。
贾以此游汉廷公卿间，名声籍甚。
及诛吕氏，立孝文，贾颇有力。
孝文即位，欲使人之南越，丞相平乃言贾为太中大夫，往使尉佗，去黄屋称制，令比诸侯，皆如意指。
语在《南越传》。
陆生竟以寿终。
朱建，楚人也。故尝为淮南王黥布相，有罪去，后复事布。
布欲反时，问建，建谏止之。布不听，听梁父侯，遂反。
汉既诛布，闻建谏之，高祖赐建号平原君，家徙长安。
为人辩有口，刻廉刚直，行不苟合，义不取容。
辟阳侯行不正，得幸吕太后，欲知建，建不肯见。
translation: 
Chen Ping adopted his strategy, so he spent 500 gold to celebrate Jianghou Zhou Bo's birthday and had a drink with the Taiwei, who also returned the favor.
In this way, the relationship between the two people became closer, and Lu's conspiracy was further destroyed.
Chen Ping gave Lu Jia a hundred slaves, fifty carriages and horses, and five million yuan to pay for meals and drinks.
Lu Mai then used these properties to lobby the officials in the court, and his reputation grew.
Until the Lu family was executed and Emperor Xiaowen was established as emperor, Lu Jia was very helpful.
Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne and wanted to send someone as an envoy to South Vietnam. Prime Minister Chen Ping reported to the emperor that Lu Mai should be appointed as the Taizhong doctor and sent as an envoy to South Vietnam. Wei Tuo gave up his imperial title and agreed with the princes, which was in line with the court's wishes.
These events are recorded in "The Biography of South Vietnam".
Lu Jia finally died.
Zhu Jian, a native of Chu, once served as the prime minister of Huainan King Yingbu. He fled because of a crime and later followed Yingbu again.
When Ying Bu wanted to rebel, he asked Zhu Jian. Zhu Jian advised him not to rebel, but Ying Bu refused to listen and listened to his father Liang, so he rebelled.
The Han Dynasty suppressed Ying Bu. Hearing that Sai Jian had discouraged Yun Hu from making it, he gave Gui Jian the title of Lili Jun and his family moved to Chang'an.
Sai Jian is a eloquent and talented person, with a clean and upright character. His behavior is different from that of others, and he does not agree with others casually when interacting with others.
Marquis Piyang behaved improperly and was favored by Empress Dowager Lu. He wanted to make friends with Zhu Jian, but Zhu Jian refused to see him.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
及建母死，贫未有以发丧，方假貣服具。
陆贾素与建善，乃见辟阳侯，贺曰： 平原君母死。
辟阳侯曰： 平原君母死，何乃贺我？
陆生曰： 前日君侯欲知平原君，平原君义不知君，以其母故。
今其母死，君诚厚送丧，则彼为君死矣。
辟阳侯乃奉百金税，列侯贵人以辟阳侯故，往赙凡五百金。
久之，人或毁辟阳侯，惠帝大怒，下吏，欲诛之。
太后惭，不可言。
大臣多害辟阳侯行，欲遂诛之。
辟阳侯困急，使人欲见建。
建辞曰： 狱急，不敢见君。
建乃求见孝惠幸臣闳籍孺，说曰： 君所以得幸帝，天下莫不闻。
今辟阳侯幸太后而下吏，道路皆言君谗，欲杀之。
今日辟阳侯诛，且日太后含怒，亦诛君。
君何不肉袒为辟阳侯言帝？
帝听君出辟阳侯，太后大驩。
两主俱幸君，君富贵益倍矣。
translation: 
When Zhu Jian's mother passed away, she had no money to pay for the funeral because of poverty, so she borrowed money to buy mourning clothes and funeral utensils.
Lu Jia had always been friendly with Ji Jian, so he went to see Piyang Hou and congratulated him: "Pingyuan Jun's mother is dead."
Marquis Piyang said: Lord Pingyuan's mother is dead, why do you congratulate me?
Lu Mai said: A few days ago, Junhou wanted to make friends with Guijian. Mr. Pingyuan insisted on the principle of righteousness and refused to see you because of his mother.
Now that his mother is dead, if you really give generous gifts at the funeral, then he will become a good friend who will die for you.
Marquis Piyang then presented him with a hundred gold pieces of clothing and quilt. Other princes and nobles also went to send a total of five hundred gold to support the funeral because of Lord Piyang.
As time went by, some people slandered Piyanghou. Emperor Hui was furious and arrested Piyanghou and wanted to kill him.
The Queen Mother felt very ashamed, but could not say it herself.
Most of the ministers were deeply dissatisfied with the behavior of Marquis Piyang, so they all wanted to kill him.
The Marquis of Piyang was afraid and anxious, so he sent someone to see Sai Jian.
Sejian declined and said: Your case is at a critical moment and I dare not see you.
Zhu Jian then asked to see Ji Qiang, Emperor Xiaohui's lucky minister, and said: "You are favored by the emperor, and everyone in the world knows it."
Now that Hou Piyang was favored by the Queen Mother and was imprisoned, people on the road said that you had said bad things to the emperor, so the emperor wanted to kill him.
Today Marquis Piyang was killed, and tomorrow the Queen Mother will be angry and kill you too.
Why don't you speak kindly to the emperor for Piyanghou?
If the emperor listens to your words and releases Piyanghou, the queen mother will be very happy.
If both monarchs favor you, you will be doubly rich.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
于是闳籍孺大恐，从其计，言帝，帝果出辟阳侯。
辟阳侯之囚，欲见建，建不见，辟阳侯以为背之，大怒。
乃其成功出之，大惊。
吕太后崩，大臣诛诸吕，辟阳侯与诸吕至深，卒不诛。
计画所以全者，皆陆生、平原君之力也。
孝文时，淮南厉王杀辟阳侯，以党诸吕故。
孝文闻其客朱建为其策，使吏捕欲治。
闻吏至门，建欲自杀。
诸子及吏皆曰： 事未可知，何自杀为？
建曰： 我死祸绝，不及乃身矣。
遂自刭。
文帝闻而惜之，曰： 吾无杀建意也。
乃召其子，拜为中大夫。
使匈奴，单于无礼，骂单于，遂死匈奴中。
娄敬，齐人也。
汉五年，戍陇西，过雒阳，高帝在焉。
敬脱挽辂，见齐人虞将军曰： 臣愿见上言便宜。
虞将军欲与鲜衣，敬曰： 臣衣帛，衣帛见，衣褐，衣褐见，不敢易衣。
虞将军入言上，上召见，赐食。
translation: 
So Hong Jiru was frightened, followed Zhu Jian's plan, and advised the emperor, and the emperor released Piyanghou.
When Marquis Piyang was about to be imprisoned, he wanted to see Zhu Jian, but Zhu Jian didn't see him. Marquis Piyang thought Sai Jian had betrayed him and was furious.
It was a surprise when he managed to get out of prison.
After the death of Queen Mother Lu, the ministers wanted to kill all the Lu family members. The Marquis of Piyang had a close relationship with the Lu family, but in the end he was not killed.
The success of the plan was all due to the efforts of Lu Jia and Pingyuan Jun.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowen, King Li of Huainan killed Marquis Piyang because he had formed a party with the Lu family.
Emperor Xiaowen learned that it was Zhu Jian who was advising him, so he sent officials to arrest him and punish him.
When he heard that the official had arrived at the door, Zhu Jian wanted to commit suicide.
His sons and officials all said: "We don't know what happened, so why did we commit suicide?"
Zhu Jian said: If I die, the disaster will be gone and it will not affect you.
So he drew his sword.
When Emperor Wen found out, he said regretfully: I have no intention of killing Zhu Jian.
So he summoned Zhu Jian's son and worshiped him as a senior official.
He was sent as an envoy to the Xiongnu, but the Xiongnu Shanyu was rude. He died among the Xiongnu because he scolded the Xiongnu Shanyu.
Lou Jing, a native of Qi.
In the fifth year of Mo, I guarded Longxi and passed through Luoyang. Gaozu was there.
Lou Jing got rid of the crossbar in front of the cart and saw General Yu, a native of Qi, and said: I want to see the emperor to discuss something meaningful.
General Yu wanted to change him into gorgeous clothes. Lou Jing said: "I am wearing silk clothes, so I will wear silk clothes to greet you; if I am wearing coarse cloth clothes, I will wear coarse clothes to greet you. There is no need to change my clothes."
General Yu entered the palace to report to the emperor, who summoned him and gave him food.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
已而问敬，敬说曰： 陛下都雒阳，岂欲与周室比隆哉？
上曰： 然。 敬曰： 陛下取天下与周异。周之先自后稷，尧封之邰，积德累善十余世。
公刘避桀居豳。
大王以狄伐故，去豳，杖马箠去居岐，国人争归之。
及文王为西伯，断虞、芮讼，始受命，吕望、伯夷自海滨来归之。
武王伐纣，不期而会孟津上八百诸侯，遂灭殷。
成王即位，周公之属傅相焉，乃营成周都雒，以为此天下中，诸侯四方纳贡职，道里钧矣，有德则易以王，无德则易以亡。
凡居此者，欲令务以德致人，不欲阴险，令后世骄奢以虐民也。
及周之衰，分而为二，天下莫朝周，周不能制。
非德薄，形势弱也。
translation: 
After a while, the emperor asked Lou Jing, and Lou Jing said: Your Majesty established the capital in Luoyang, do you want to compete with the Zhou royal family in prosperity? The emperor said: Yes.
Lou Jing said: Your Majesty's attempt to conquer the world is different from that of the Zhou royal family. The ancestor of the Zhou Dynasty was Hou Ji. Yao granted him the title of Tai, and he accumulated good deeds for more than ten generations.
Gong Liu avoided Xia Jie and lived in Bin.
Because of Di's invasion, the king left Bin and came to live in Qi with his horse whip in hand, but everyone in the country rushed to submit to him.
When King Wen of Zhou Dynasty was the Western Bodhisattva, due to his virtue, the fighting between the Yu people and the Rui people calmed down. After they began to accept the mission, Lu Wang and Boyi returned from the seaside.
King Wu of Zhou attacked Shang Zhou, and eight hundred princes unexpectedly gathered in Mengjin, thus annihilating Shang and Yin.
King Cheng of Zhou succeeded to the throne, and the Duke of Zhou and others assisted him, so he built the Zhou Dynasty and established its capital at Luoyang, thinking that Luoyang was the center of the world. The princes paid tribute from all directions and reported their duties. The distance of the road was relatively even. If you have virtue, it is easy to become king, but if you don't have virtue, it is easy to perish.
Everyone who lives here must treat others virtuously, and do not want to rely on the dangers of the terrain to protect the world, and allow future generations to be arrogant, luxurious and abuse the people.
When the Zhou Dynasty declined, they were divided into the kings of Eastern Zhou and the kings of Western Zhou. No one in the world came to see the king of Zhou, and the king of Zhou could not control them.
Not because the morals are weak, but because the strength is too weak.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
今陛下起丰沛，收卒三千人，以之径往，卷蜀汉，定三秦，与项籍战荥阳，大战七十，小战四十，使天下之民肝脑涂地，父子暴骸中野，不可胜数，哭泣之声不绝，伤夷者未起，而欲比隆成、康之时，臣窃以为不侔矣。
且夫秦地被山带河，四塞以为固，卒然有急，百万之众可具。
因秦之故，资甚美膏腴之地，此所谓天府。
陛下入关而都之，山东虽乱，秦故地可全而有也。
夫与人斗，不搤其亢，拊其背，未能全胜。
今陛下入关而都，按秦之故，此亦搤天下之亢而拊其背也。
高帝问群臣，群臣皆山东人，争言周王数百年，秦二世则亡，不如都周。
上疑未能决。
及留侯明言入关便，即日驾西都关中。
于是上曰： 本言都秦地者娄敬，娄者刘也。
赐姓刘氏，拜为郎中，号曰奉春君。
汉七年，韩王信反，高帝自往击。
translation: 
Now your Majesty raised troops from Feng and Pei, and recruited 3,000 soldiers. He used these people to sweep the Shuhan area, pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, and fought with Xiang Yu in Rongyang. There were seventy major battles and forty minor battles, causing the lives of all the people in the world.
Moreover, the land of Qin is surrounded by mountains and rivers, and the terrain is difficult. If there is a sudden war, millions of troops can gather.
With the old conditions, abundant resources and fertile land, it can become a natural treasury.
Your Majesty entered Guanzhong and made it the capital of the country. Although there was war in Huashan, Qin's old land could still be preserved and occupied.
If you fight with someone, you can't win completely without grabbing his throat and blowing his spine.
Now that your majesty has entered Guanzhong to build the capital and pacify the old land of Qin, this is also strangling the throat of the world and striking its backbone.
Emperor Gao asked the ministers, all of whom were from Shandong, and they all said that the Zhou Dynasty ruled for hundreds of years, while the Qin Dynasty only extended to the second generation, so it would be better to build the capital of Luoyang.
Emperor Gaoti hesitated and could not decide where to make his capital.
It was not until Zhang Liang, the Marquis of Liu, made it clear that he should enter Guanzhong, that he set off to the west to make Guanzhong his capital.
So the emperor said: The first person who was determined to be in Qin was Lou Jing, and Lou was Liu.
He gave Lou Jing the surname Liu, made him a doctor, and titled him Feng Chunjun.
In the seventh year of the Han Dynasty, King Han Xin of Han rebelled, and Emperor Gao personally led his troops to attack him.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
至晋阳，闻信与匈奴欲击汉，上大怒，使人使匈奴。
匈奴匿其壮士肥牛马，徒见其老弱及羸畜。
使者十蜚来，皆言匈奴易击。
上使刘敬复往使匈奴，还报曰： 两国相击，此宜夸矜见所长。
今臣往，徒见羸胔老弱，此必欲见短，伏奇兵以争利。
愚以为匈奴不可击也。
是时汉兵以逾句注，三十余万众，兵已业行。
上怒，骂敬曰： 齐虏！
以舌得官，乃今妄言沮吾军！
械系敬广武。
遂往，至平城，匈奴果出奇兵围高帝白登，七日然后得解。
高帝至广武，赦敬，曰： 吾不用公言，以困平城。
吾已斩先使十辈言可击者矣。
乃封敬二千户，为关内侯，号建信侯。
高帝罢平城归，韩王信亡入胡。
当是时，冒顿单于兵强，控弦四十万骑，数若北边。
上患之，问敬。
敬曰： 天下初定，士卒罢于兵革，未可以武服也。
冒顿杀人父代立，妻群母，以力为威，未可以仁义说也。
translation: 
When he arrived in Jinyang, he heard that Han Xin was planning to unite with the Xiongnu to attack the Han army. The emperor was furious and sent an envoy to the Xiongnu.
The Xiongnu hid the strong men and fat cattle and horses, and only saw the old and weak people and very thin livestock.
Ten batches of envoys came, and they all said that the Huns were easily defeated.
The emperor sent Liu Jing to go to the Huns again. When he returned, he reported to the emperor: When two countries are hostile and fighting, they should show off their strengths.
Now when I go to the Xiongnu, I only see thin livestock and old and weak people. They must have deliberately shown their shortcomings to lure us into being deceived and ambush surprise soldiers to defeat us.
I think the Huns are unattackable.
At this time, the Han soldiers had advanced northward and had crossed Gouzhu Mountain. More than 300,000 soldiers had been mobilized.
The emperor was angry and scolded Liu Jing: "You are a slave of Qi!"
I got the official position by talking nonsense, and now I want to stop me from sending troops with nonsense words.
Put Liu Jing in chains and stay in Guangwu.
So he went to Pingcheng. The Huns really came out with surprise troops and besieged Gaodi in Baideng. It took seven days to relieve the siege.
Emperor Gao went to Guangwu and released Liu Jing, saying: "I don't accept your words, so I was besieged in Pingcheng."
I have killed the ten groups of people who said they could attack the Huns.
So Liu Jing was granted the title of Marquis of Guan Neihou with two cadres, and his title was to be on duty during the day.
Emperor Gao returned from Pingcheng, and King Xin of Han fled to the Huns.
At this time, Maodun Chanyu's army was powerful, capable of shooting 400,000 cavalry, and he invaded the north several times.
The emperor was worried about this and asked Liu Jing.
Liu Jing said: The world has just been peaceful, and the soldiers are exhausted by the war and can no longer use force to conquer the Huns.
Mao Dun killed his father to become the Chanyu, took Qun Mu as his wife, and relied on force to display his prestige, but he could not be persuaded by benevolence and righteousness.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
独可以计久远子孙为臣耳，然陛下恐不能为。
上曰： 诚可，何为不能！
顾为奈何？
敬曰： 陛下诚能以適长公主妻单于，厚奉遗之，彼知汉女送厚，蛮夷必慕，以为阏氏，生子必为太子，代单于。
何者？
贪汉重币。
陛下以岁时汉所余彼所鲜数问遗，使辩士风喻以礼节。
冒顿在，固为子婿；死，外孙为单于。
岂曾闻孙敢与大父亢礼哉？
可毋战以渐臣也。
若陛下不能遣长公主，而令宗室及后宫诈称公主，彼亦知不肯贵近，无益也。
高帝曰： 善。
欲遣长公主。
吕后泣曰： 妾唯以一太子、一女，奈何弃之匈奴！
上竟不能遣长公主，而取家人子为公主，妻单于。
使敬往结和亲约。
translation: 
If we can plan in the long run and let his descendants become ministers, I am afraid that His Majesty cannot do this.
The emperor said: If it is possible, why can't it be done?
Just how to do it?
Liu Jing replied: If your majesty allows the eldest princess to marry the Chanyu and gives him generous gifts, he knows the kindness of the Han princess as his wife. The Xiongnu will definitely make the queen the Chanyu, and the son he will give birth to will be the prince, who will take the place of the Chanyu in the future.
Why?
Because the Xiongnu coveted the generous gifts from the Han.
Your Majesty sends gifts and condolences to the Xiongnu Chanyu several times every year, and sends envoys and debaters to teach them politely.
When Modu is alive, the Chanyu is of course your Majesty's son-in-law. If the Chanyu dies, your Majesty's grandson is the Chanyu.
Have you ever heard of a confrontation between your grandson and your grandfather?
The army can subtly subdue the Huns without going out on a campaign.
If Your Majesty is unwilling to send the eldest princess and lets people in the clan and harem pretend to be princesses, they will know about it and refuse to honor her or get close to her, which will be of no use.
Gao Di said: OK.
I want to send the eldest princess.
When Empress Lu found out, she cried day and night and said, "I only have one son and one daughter. Why should I throw her to the Huns?"
In the end, the emperor could not send the eldest princess, but chose a daughter from the family named eldest princess to marry Shan Yu.
Liu Jing was sent to conclude a peace treaty.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
敬从匈奴来，因言 匈奴河南白羊、楼烦王，去长安近者七百里，轻骑一日一夕可以至。
秦中新破，少民，地肥饶，可益实。
夫诸侯初起时，非齐诸田，楚昭、屈、景莫与。
今陛下虽都关中，实少人。
北近胡冠，东有六国强族，一日有变，陛下亦未得安枕而卧也。
臣愿陛下徙齐诸田，楚昭、屈、景、燕、赵、韩、魏后，及豪杰名家，且实关中。
无事，可以备胡；诸侯有变，亦足率以东伐。
此强本弱末之术也。 上曰： 善。
乃使刘敬徙所言关中十余万口。
叔孙通，薛人也。
秦时以文学征，待诏博士。
数岁，陈胜起，二世召博士诸儒生问曰： 楚戍卒攻蕲入陈，于公何如？
博士诸生三十余人前曰： 人臣无将，将则反，罪死无赦。
愿陛下急发兵击之。
二世怒，作色。
translation: 
Liu Jing returned from the Xiongnu and said: The Xiongnu live in the two tribes of Aries and Loufan south of the Yellow River. They are very close to Chang'an, only 700 miles away. They can reach Guanzhong in one day and one night on horseback.
Guanzhong has just been destroyed by war and has a small population, but the land is fertile and can increase the population.
When the princes first emerged, without the Tian family of Qi, the Zhao, Qu, Jing and other royal families of Chu would not have been able to prosper.
Although His Majesty now has a capital in Guanzhong, he has very few manpower.
The north is close to the Xiongnu, and there are clans from six countries in Shubu. They are powerful. Once a mutiny occurs, Your Majesty cannot rest easy.
I hope that your majesty will move the Tian family of Qi State and the descendants of Chu Zhao, Qu, Jing, Yan, Tang, Han and Wei to enrich Guanzhong.
As long as the situation does not change, we can guard against the Xiongnu. If the princes rebel, we can lead them to crusade eastward.
This is a way to strengthen the foundation of the regime. The emperor said: OK.
So Liu Yao was assigned to move more than 100,000 people from each of the above-mentioned clans to Maggotshen.
Shusuntong was from Xuexian County.
During the Qin Dynasty, he was recruited as a doctor waiting for imperial edict because of his proficiency in classics.
A few years later, Chen Sheng raised an army. Qin II summoned doctors and Confucian scholars and asked: Wu soldiers from Chu captured Qi County and entered Chen County. What do you think of this?
More than 30 doctors and other scholars came forward and said: Ministers cannot cause rebellion. To cause rebellion is to commit rebellion, and the crime will not be forgiven.
May your Majesty quickly send troops to attack the rebels.
Qin II was furious and his expression changed.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
通前曰： 诸生言皆非。
夫天下为一家，毁郡县城，铄其兵，视天下弗复用。
且明主在上，法令具于下，吏人人奉职，四方辐辏，安有反者！
此特群盗鼠窃狗盗，何足置齿牙间哉？
郡守尉今捕诛，何足忧？
二世喜，尽问诸生，诸生或言反，或言盗。于是二世令御史按诸生言反者下吏，非所宜言。
诸生言盗者皆罢之。
乃赐通帛二十匹，衣一袭，拜为博士，通已出，反舍，诸生曰： 生何言之谀也？
通曰： 公不知，我几不免虎口！
乃亡去之薛，薛已降楚矣。
及项梁之薛，通从之。
败定陶，从怀王。
怀王为义帝，徙长沙，通留事项王，汉二年，汉王从五诸侯入彭城，通降汉王。
translation: 
Shusuntong stepped forward and said: What all the Confucian scholars said is wrong.
Today, the people have become one family, demolished the city, destroyed the weapons, and expressed to the world that they will no longer use them.
Besides, there is a wise monarch at the top, laws and decrees are carried out at the bottom, officials all perform their duties, and all directions are directed towards the court, how can there be anyone who is created?
These people are just thieves, so why should they care?
The county guards and lieutenants are hunting them now, so what is there to worry about?
Qin II was very happy. Asked every Confucian scholar, some said they were rebels, and some said they were thieves. So Qin II ordered the censor to write down the people who made the remarks and hand them over to the judge for trial to punish them for their wrong remarks.
All scholars who spoke of thieves were dismissed.
He gave Shusun Tong twenty pieces of silk and a set of clothes, and he was called a doctor. After Shusun Tong came out, he returned to the academy. The Confucian scholars said: "Why do you talk so flatteringly?"
Shusun Tong said: You don't know that I can hardly escape from the tiger's mouth.
So he fled to Xue County, which had surrendered to Chu.
Xiang Liang came to Xue County, and Shusun Tong followed him.
Xiang Liang was defeated in Dingtao, and he followed King Huai again.
King Huai became the Righteous Emperor and moved to Changsha County. Shusun Tong stayed behind to assist King Xiang. In the second year of the Han Dynasty, the King of Han led the troops of the five princes into Pengcheng, and Shusun Tong surrendered to the King of Han.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
通儒服，汉王憎之，乃变其服，服短衣，楚制。汉王喜。
通之降汉，从弟子百余人，然无所进，剸言诸故群盗壮士进之。
弟子皆曰： 事先生数年，幸得从降汉，今不进臣等，剸言大猾，何也？
通乃谓曰： 汉王方蒙矢石争天下，诸生宁能斗乎？
故先言斩将搴旗之士。诸生且待我，我不忘矣。
汉王拜通为博士，号稷嗣君。
汉王已并天下，诸侯共尊为皇帝于定陶，通就其仪号。
高帝悉去秦仪法，为简易。
群臣饮争功，醉或妄呼，拔剑击柱，上患之。
通知上亦厌之，说上曰： 夫儒者难与进取，可与守成。
臣愿征鲁诸生，与臣弟子共起朝仪。
高帝曰： 得无难乎？
通曰： 五帝异乐，三王不同礼。
translation: 
Shusun Tong wore the clothes of a Confucian scholar, and the King of Han was disgusted, so he changed his clothes and wore short clothes in the style of the Chu people. The King of Han was very happy.
Shusun Tong surrendered to the King of Han, and there were more than a hundred scholars who followed him. However, Shusun Tong did not recommend him, only the strong men and reckless grassroots bandits.
The disciples all said: I have served you for many years, and I was lucky enough to defect to the King of Han. Now I do not recommend ministers, but only treacherous people. Why?
Shusun Tong then said: The king of Han is fighting for the world by force. Can you go and fight?
Therefore, I first recommend you to those heroes who are brave enough to kill the enemy. Please wait for me for now. I will not forget you.
The king of Han worshiped his uncle Sun Tong as a doctor and named him Sijun Ji.
The King of Han unified the world, and the princes in Dingtao jointly respected him as emperor. Shusun Tong formulated the court etiquette and the titles of duties of the monarch and his ministers.
Emperor Gao deleted the harsh etiquette laws that had destroyed the Qin Dynasty and implemented simple and easy-to-implement laws.
The ministers drank and competed for merit. When they were drunk, they talked nonsense and drew their swords to hit pillars. The emperor was very worried.
Shusun Tong knew that the emperor was getting more and more upset about this matter, so he persuaded the emperor: Those scholars cannot attack and kill with your majesty, but they can consolidate the country.
I am willing to recruit some scholars from the State of Lu to draft court rituals together with my disciples.
Emperor Gao said: Isn't it difficult to formulate etiquette?
Shusun Tong said: The five emperors have different music systems, and the three kings have different etiquette.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
礼者，因时世人情为之节文者也。
故夏、殷、周礼所因损益可知者，谓不相复也。
臣愿颇采古礼与秦仪杂就之。
上曰： 可试为之，令易知，度吾所能行为之。
于是通使征鲁诸生三十余人。鲁有两生不肯行，曰： 公所事者且十主，皆面腴亲贵。
今天下初定，死者未葬，伤者未起，又欲起礼乐。
礼乐所由起，百年积德而后可兴也。
吾不忍为公所为。
公所为不合古，吾不行。
公往矣，毋污我！ 通笑曰： 若真鄙儒，不知时变。
遂与所征三十人西，及上左右为学者与其弟子百余人为绵蕞野外。习之月余，通曰： 上可试观。
上使行礼，曰： 吾能为此。
乃令群臣习肄，会十月。
translation: 
Etiquette is formulated based on the situation, people and customs at that time.
Therefore, we can understand the inheritance, deletion, and addition of etiquette in the Xia, Yin, Shang, and Zhou dynasties. It can be said that they are not repeated.
I hope to learn from the ancient etiquette and the rituals of the Qin Dynasty and formulate it accordingly.
The emperor said: We can try to formulate it. We must make it easy to understand the Han rites and consider whether I can implement it.
So Shusun Tong served as an envoy to recruit more than thirty Confucian scholars from the state of Lu. Among them, two Confucian scholars refused to go with him, saying: "You have already assisted ten masters, and you all flatter them in person."
Now the world has just settled down, the dead have not yet been buried, the injured have not yet recovered, and rituals and music must be established.
The rise of ritual and music is due to hundreds of years of accumulated virtue. We cannot accept what you are asking us to do.
What you are doing is not in line with the ancient ways, so we will not go.
Go ahead and don't tarnish our character.
Shusun Tong smiled and said: You are really pedantic and ignorant of worldly affairs. You do not understand the changes in the current situation.
So he went west with the 30 people he had recruited, and together with Gaodi's close officials and Shusun Tong's disciples, a total of more than 100 people tied thatches in the wild to determine the ceremonial positions. After practicing for more than a month, Shusun Tong said: "Your Majesty, you can give it a try."
After exercising the etiquette, the emperor said: I can do it.
So he ordered all the ministers to practice, and the rituals were completed just in time for the beginning of October.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
汉七年，长乐宫成，诸侯群臣朝十月。
仪：先平明，谒者治礼，引以次入殿门。廷中陈车骑戍卒卫官，设兵，张旗志。
传曰 趋 。
殿下郎中侠陛，陛数百人。
功臣、列侯、诸将军、军吏以次陈西方，东乡；文官丞相以下陈东方，西乡。
大行设九宾，胪句传。
于是皇帝辇出房，百官执戟传警，引诸侯王以下至吏六百石以次奉贺。
自诸侯王以下莫不震恐肃敬。
至礼毕，尽伏，置法酒。
诸侍坐殿下皆伏抑首，以尊卑次起上寿。
觞九行，谒者言 罢酒 。
御史执法举不如仪者辄引去。
竟朝置酒，无敢讙哗失礼者。
于是高帝曰： 吾乃今日知为皇帝之贵也！
拜通为奉常，赐金五百斤。
translation: 
In the seventh year of the Han Dynasty, Changle Palace was built, and all the princes and ministers came to worship in October.
Etiquette: Before dawn, the visitor is responsible for the etiquette, and the pilgrims are brought into the palace one by one. The palace is equipped with chariots, garrison soldiers, and guards, as well as various weapons and flags.
Paging trend, that is, rush to enter.
Hundreds of guards lined the steps of His Highness.
To the west stood the heroes, princes, generals, and military officials in order, facing east; to the east stood the civil servants and prime ministers, facing west.
Daxing ordered to preside over the ceremony of going to court, set up nine stations of masters of ceremonies, and shouted loudly to attract the ministers into the palace.
So the emperor came out of the house in a chariot, and hundreds of officials held halberds, calling for the clear way, and guided the princes and officials down to six hundred stone officials to come to the emperor in turn to congratulate him.
Everyone below the princes and kings was frightened and respectful.
After the worship, all the officials, big and small, prostrated themselves on the ground, and a banquet was held with strict etiquette.
The waiters in the palace all bowed their heads and stood up one by one to wish the emperor a birthday.
After nine drinks, the visitor said: The banquet is over.
If the censor reports someone who violates etiquette, he will be taken away.
During the whole process of worshiping and drinking, no one dared to make any noise or violate etiquette.
So Emperor Gao said: Only now do I know the dignity of being an emperor!
He worshiped his uncle Sun Tong as Fengchang and gave him five hundred catties of gold.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
通因进曰： 诸弟子儒生随臣久矣，与共为仪，愿陛下官之。
高帝悉以为郎。
通出，皆以五百金赐诸生。
诸生乃喜曰： 叔孙生圣人，知当世务。
九年，高帝徙通为太子太傅。
十二年，高帝欲以赵王如意易太子，通谏曰： 昔者晋献公以骊姬故，废太子，立奚齐，晋国乱者数十年，为天下笑。
秦以不早定扶苏，故亥诈立，自使灭祀，此陛下所亲见。
今太子仁孝，天下皆闻之；吕后与陛下攻苦食啖，其可背哉！
陛下必欲废適而立少，臣愿先伏诛，以颈血污地。
高帝曰： 公罢矣，吾特戏耳。
通曰： 太子天下本，本壹摇天下震动，奈何以天下戏！
高帝曰： 吾听公。
及上置酒，见留侯所招客从太子入见，上遂无易太子志矣。
translation: 
Shusuntong then said to the emperor: These disciples, Confucian scholars, have been following me for a long time. They worked with me to formulate etiquette. I hope your majesty can grant them official titles.
Emperor Gao named them all Lang.
Shusun Tong came out and gave all the five hundred gold he had received to the Confucian scholars.
The Confucian scholars said happily: Mr. Shusun is really a saint and understands the world today.
In the ninth year of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Gao promoted his uncle Sun Tong to the title of Crown Prince and Tutor.
In the twelfth year, Emperor Gao wanted to make King Zhao Ruyi the crown prince. Shusun Tong said: In the past, Duke Xiang of Jin deposed the crown prince and established Xi Qi instead because of Li Ji. The Jin Kingdom was in chaos for decades and was ridiculed by the world.
Because the Qin Dynasty did not appoint Fusu as the crown prince early, Hu Hai used deception to win the throne and reduced the Qin Dynasty. This was witnessed by your Majesty personally.
Nowadays, the prince's loyalty, filial piety and benevolence are known to everyone in the world; Empress Lu and Your Majesty have endured hardships and had a simple diet. How can you turn your back on her?
If Your Majesty must depose the eldest son and establish a younger son, I would like to be killed first and paint the earth red with the blood of my neck.
Gaodi said: Don't do this, I was just joking.
Shusun Tong said: The prince is the foundation of the world's stability. If the foundation is shaken, the world will be chaotic and turbulent. How can you make fun of the world?
Gaodi said: I obey your words.
When the emperor was holding a banquet, he saw four old gentlemen invited by Zhang Liang to follow the prince to see the emperor. The emperor no longer had any intention of changing the prince.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
高帝崩，孝惠即位，乃谓通曰： 先帝园陵寝庙，群臣莫习。
徙通为奉常，定宗庙仪法。
乃稍定汉诸仪法，皆通所论著也。
惠帝为东朝长乐宫，及间往，数跸烦民，作复道，方筑武库南，通奏事，因请间，曰： 陛下何自筑复道高帝寝，衣冠月出游高庙？
子孙奈何乘宗庙道上行哉！
惠帝惧，曰： 急坏之。
通曰： 人主无过举。
今已作，百姓皆知之矣。
愿陛下为原庙渭北，衣冠月出游之，益广宗庙，大孝之本。
上乃诏有司立原庙。
惠帝常出游离宫，通曰： 古者有春尝果，方今樱桃熟，可献，愿陛下出，因取樱桃献宗庙。
上许之。
诸果献由此兴。
translation: 
Emperor Gao died and Emperor Xiaohui ascended the throne. So he said to Shusuntong: No one is familiar with the etiquette of the late emperor's mausoleum and temple.
Sun Tong, his uncle, was promoted to Fengchang and formulated the etiquette of the ancestral temple.
All kinds of rituals and laws formulated in the Han Dynasty were written by Mr. Shusun.
Emperor Hui's visit to the Changle Palace in Shubian would disturb the people, so he responded. When the construction of the Wukunan area was just beginning, Mr. Shusun reported to the emperor and asked the emperor: Why does your majesty build a pavilion corridor from the mausoleum of Emperor Gao, prepare a royal tour every month, and travel once a month to display Emperor Gao's clothes in the high temple?
Why are future generations allowed to walk on the temple roads of Gaodi?
Emperor Xiaohui was very frightened and said: "Tear it down quickly."
Shusun Tong said: The emperor never does wrong things.
Now it has been done and the people know it.
I hope that your Majesty will build another Gaodi Temple to the north of the Weishui River as a temple for traveling and wearing clothes. This will also increase and expand the number of Gaodi ancestral temples. This is the foundation of great filial piety.
The emperor then ordered officials to rebuild the Gaodi Temple.
Emperor Xiaohui often visited the palace. Shusun Tong said: "The ancients presented fruits in spring. Now is the time when the cherries are ripe and can be presented. I hope that your majesty will travel and take advantage of the opportunity to present cherries to the ancestral temple."
The emperor agreed to do this.
This is how the ritual of offering fruits to the ancestral temple arose.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
赞曰：高祖以征伐定天下，而缙绅之徒聘其知辩，并成大业。
语曰： 廊庙之枝材一木之材，帝王之功非一士之略 ，信哉！
刘敬脱挽辂而建金城之安，叔孙通舍枹鼓而立一王之仪，遇其时也。
郦生自匿监门，待主然后出，犹不免鼎镬。
朱建始名廉直，既距辟阳，不终其节，亦以丧身。
陆贾位止大夫，致仕诸吕，不受忧责，从容平、勃之间，附会将相以强社稷，身名俱荣，其最优乎！
translation: 
Praising: The emperor of the Han Dynasty conquered the world with his southern and northern expeditions, and the Confucian scholars used their eloquent talents to achieve the great cause of unifying the world.
"Shenzi" said: A temple is not built with a piece of wood, and an emperor's achievements are not built with the strength of one person.
It is indeed true! Liu Jing did not pull the chariot and persuaded Emperor Gao to make Guanzhong the capital to stabilize the country. Shusun Tong gave up the battle formation and did not create Modai etiquette. This was because the timing was good.
Li Shiqi hid and guarded the gate, waiting for Mingjun to come out, but he was still inevitably cooked to death.
Zhu Jian was upright and honest at the beginning and never made friends with Piyang Hou. However, he died because he could not always keep his integrity.
Lu Jia was a high official, but he did not serve as an official for the Lu family. He was beyond reproach. He joined forces with Chen Ping and Zhou Bo and relied on the generals to defend the country's power. His status and reputation were both glorious and he was the best among them!


