Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 5, 0]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
《王制》云： 东方曰夷。
夷者，柢也，言仁而好生，万物柢地而出。
故天性柔顺，易以道御，至有君子、不死之国焉。
夷有九种，曰畎夷、于夷、方夷、黄夷、白夷、赤夷、玄夷、风夷、阳夷。
故孔子欲居九夷也。
昔尧命羲仲宅嵎夷，曰旸谷，盖日之所出也。
夏后氏太康失德，夷人始畔。
自少康已后，世服王化，遂宾于王门，献其乐舞。
桀为暴虐，诸夷内侵，殷汤革命，伐而定之。
至于仲丁，蓝夷作寇。
自是或服或畔，三百余年。
武乙衰敝，东夷浸盛，遂分迁淮、岱，渐居中土。
及武王灭纣，肃慎来献石砮、楛矢。
管、蔡畔周，乃招诱夷狄，周公征之，遂定东夷。
康王之时，肃慎复至。
后徐夷僭号，乃率九夷以伐宗周，西至河上。
穆王畏其方炽，乃分东方诸侯，命徐偃王主之。
偃王处潢池东，地方五百里，行仁义，陆地而朝者三十有六国。
穆王后得骥騄之乘，乃使造父御以告楚，令伐徐，一日而至。
于是楚文王大举兵而灭之。
偃王仁而无权，不忍斗其人，故致于败。
乃北走彭城武原县东山下，百姓随之者以万数，因名其山为徐山。
厉王无道，淮夷入寇，王命虢仲征之，不克，宣王复命召分伐而平之。
及幽王淫乱，四夷交侵，至齐桓修霸，攘而却焉。
及楚灵会申，亦来豫盟。
后越迁琅邪，与共征战，遂陵暴诸夏，侵灭小邦。
秦并六国，其淮、泗夷皆散为民户。
陈涉起兵，天下崩溃，燕人卫满避地朝鲜，因王其国。
百有余岁，武帝灭之，于是东夷始通上京。
王莽篡位，貊人寇边。建武之初，复来朝贡。
时辽东太守祭肜威詟北方，声行海表，于是濊、貊、倭、韩，万里朝献，故章、和已后，使聘流通。
逮永初多难，始入寇钞；桓、灵失政，渐滋曼焉。
自中兴之后，四夷来宾，虽时有乖畔，而使驿不绝，故国俗风土，可得略记。
东夷率皆土著，憙饮酒歌舞，或寇弁衣锦，器用俎豆。
所谓中国失礼，求之四夷者也。
几蛮、夷、戎、狄总名四夷者，犹公、侯、伯、子、男皆号诸侯云。
夫馀国，在玄菟北千里。
南与高句骊，东与挹娄，西与鲜卑接，北有弱水。
地方二千里，本濊地也。
初，北夷索离国王出行，其待兒于后身，王还，欲杀之。
translation: 
"Kingdom" says: The east is called barbarians.
Yi means root, which means that God is benevolent and cherishes all living beings, and all things grow out of the ground against the soil.
Therefore, people in the East are docile by nature and can be easily controlled by morality, so that a country of gentlemen and a country of immortality appeared.
The Yi are divided into nine branches, they are the Yi, Yu, Fang, Huang, Bai, Chi, Xuan, Feng and Yang.
So Confucius wanted to live in the Jiuyi area.
In the past, Yao ordered Xizhong to live in Woyi. There was a place called Yanggu, where the sun rose.
Emperor Taikang of the Xia Dynasty lost his virtue and the Yi people began to rebel.
Since Shaokang, the Yi people have admired the teachings of the imperial court for generations, so they submitted themselves to the emperor and presented their music and dance.
Jie's rule was brutal, and barbarians from various tribes invaded the interior. Chengtang of the Yin Dynasty changed the destiny, attacked and pacified Xia.
By the time of Zhongding, Lan Yi invaded the interior.
In the more than three hundred years since then, the Yi people sometimes surrendered and sometimes rebelled.
When Wu Yi declined, Dongyi gradually became stronger and stronger, so they moved to the Huaihe River and Mount Tai areas respectively, and gradually lived in the Central Plains.
When King Wu of Zhou destroyed Zhou, Sushen came to contribute arrowheads made of stone and arrows made of wood.
Guan Shu and Cai Shu betrayed the Zhou court, so they recruited and seduced the Yi Di. Zhou Gong conquered Guan Shu and Cai Shu and finally pacified Shu Yi.
During the reign of King Kang of Zhou, Sushen came again.
Later, Xu Yi usurped the title of emperor and led the nine barbarians to attack Zongzhou and attack westward to the bank of the Yellow River.
King Mu of Zhou was afraid that Xu Yi would be strong, so he separated the princes in the east and asked King Xu Yan to rule them.
King Xu Yan lived in Shumian, Huangchi. The land was five hundred miles in circumference. King Yan promoted benevolence and righteousness, and thirty-six countries came to worship him from all over the land.
King Zhou Mu later got the horses Chiji and Quer, so he sent Zaofu to ride the horses to inform the Chu State and order the Chu State to attack the Xu State. They arrived in one day.
So King Wen of Chu raised a large number of troops to attack Xu State and destroyed Xu State.
King Xu Yan was kind but ignorant of political skills and could not bear to let his countrymen fight, so he failed.
King Xu Yan was finally defeated at the foot of Shushan Mountain in Wuyuan County, Pengcheng City. Tens of thousands of people followed him, so Shushan Mountain was called Xushan Mountain.
King Zhou Li was cruel and unruly, and Huaiyi invaded. The emperor sent Guo Zhong to attack Huaiyi, but failed to win. King Xuan of Zhou ordered Duke Zhao to go and conquer Huaiyi, and pacified Huaiyi.
When King You of Zhou became debauched and violent, the barbarians from all sides invaded alternately. It was not until Duke Huan of Qi established his hegemony that he repelled the barbarians.
When King Chu Ling was applying for an alliance, Huaiyi also came to participate in the alliance.
Later, the Yue Kingdom moved to Langye and fought with the Huaiyi. From then on, they invaded and harmed all the countries in the Central Plains and invaded and destroyed small countries.
Qin State annexed the six countries, and Huaiyi and Siyi were scattered into ordinary people's houses.
Chen She raised an army and the world collapsed. Weiman, a native of Yan State, took refuge in North Korea and thus ruled North Korea.
More than a hundred years later, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty destroyed North Korea, and since then the Yicai have been banned from visiting Kyoto.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, the Qi people invaded the border. In the early years of Jianwu, the Qi people came to pay tribute again.
At that time, the Liaodong governor's sacrifice to Xu was very powerful in the north, and his reputation was very high overseas. So Jia, Qi, Wa, and Han came to the court from thousands of miles away to contribute. Therefore, after Emperor Zhang and Emperor He, envoys communicated with each other.
At the time of trouble in Yongchu, Shu Yi began to invade and plunder; Emperors Huan and Ling were in political chaos, and Shu Yi gradually spread.
Since the Zhongxing Dynasty, barbarians from all over the world came to submit. Although there were frequent rebellions, the envoys did not stop. Therefore, the customs, customs, and geographical environment of these countries can be roughly described.
Dongyi generally have settled in one place for generations and like to drink, sing and dance. Sometimes they wear crowns, silk clothes, and utensils such as zu and beans.
This is the reason why China lost its etiquette and can be found in Siyi.
The barbarians, barbarians, Rong, and Di are collectively called the four barbarians, just like the dukes, lords, uncles, sons, and men are all called princes.
Fuyu country is a thousand miles north of Xuantu.
It borders Gaoguli to the south, Yilou to Shumian, Xianbei to the west, and Weishui to the north.
The area has a radius of two thousand miles, and it is originally a territory for reducing people.
At first, the king of the Northern Yi Suoli Kingdom went out on a tour, and his maid became pregnant. When the king came back, he planned to kill her.
summary:
The historical and cultural evolution of the Eastern Yi peoples, beginning with their origins and characteristics. The Yi, meaning "root," were considered docile and easily governed by morality, leading to the emergence of a "country of gentlemen" and a "country of immortality." They were divided into nine branches, and Confucius once expressed a desire to live among them. Early interactions with Chinese dynasties included Yao sending Xizhong to Woyi and the Yi submitting to Xia rulers, though rebellions occurred under tyrants like Jie. Over centuries, the Yi fluctuated between submission and revolt, with notable events such as Xu Yi usurping the title of emperor and attacking Zongzhou, only to be defeated by King Wen of Chu. Later, during the Zhou and Han dynasties, the Yi peoples, including Huaiyi and Siyi, were scattered, conquered, or assimilated, with periods of tribute and conflict under rulers like Wang Mang and Emperor Wu of Han. Korea, originally granted to Jizi by King Wu of Zhou, had a culture of etiquette and prohibitions. Over time, it was influenced by Chinese refugees and eventually conquered by Emperor Wu of Han, who established four commanderies. The text describes the three Han states: Mahan, Chenhan, and Benchen, each with distinct customs, including farming, iron trade, and rituals. Japan, southeast of Korea, comprised over a hundred island states, with Yamatai as the leading kingdom. Japanese customs included tattooing, polygamy, and divination. The text concludes with a reflection on Jizi's influence on Korean customs and the gradual decline of these traditions due to Chinese contact.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
侍兒曰： 前见天上有气，大如鸡子，来降我，因以有身。
王囚之，后遂生男。
王令置于豕牢，豕以口气嘘之，不死。
复徙于马兰，马亦如之。
王以为神，乃听母收养，名曰东明。
东明长而善射，王忌其猛，复欲杀之。
东明奔走，南至掩淲水，以弓击水，鱼鳖皆聚浮水上，东明乘之得度，因至夫余而王之焉。
于东夷之域，最为平敞，土宜五谷。
出名马、赤玉、貂豽，大珠如酸枣。
以员栅为城，有宫室、仓库、牢狱。
其人粗大强勇而谨厚，不为寇钞。
以弓矢刀矛为兵。
以六畜名官，有马加、牛加、狗加，其邑落皆主属诸加，食饮用俎豆，会同拜爵洗爵，揖让升降。
以腊月祭天，大会连日，饮食歌舞，名曰 迎鼓 。
是时断刑狱，解囚徒。
有军事亦祭天，杀牛，以蹄占其吉凶。
行人无昼夜，好歌吟，音声不绝。
其俗用刑严急，被诛者皆没其家人为奴婢。
盗一责十二。
男女淫，皆杀之，尤治恶妒妇，既杀，复尸于山上。
兄死妻嫂。
死则有椁无棺。
杀人殉葬，多者以百数。
其王葬用玉匣，汉朝常豫以玉匣付玄菟郡，王死则迎取以葬焉。
建武中，东夷诸国皆来献见。
二十五年，夫余王遣使奉贡，光武厚答报之，于是使命岁通。
至安帝永初五年，夫余王始将步骑七八千人寇抄乐浪，杀伤吏民，后复归附。
translation: 
The maid said: I saw an air mass in the sky as big as an egg before, and it landed on my body, and I became pregnant.
The king imprisoned her and she later gave birth to a boy.
The king ordered the boy to be thrown into a pigsty, and the pigs breathed on him to prevent him from dying.
Then he threw him into the stable to be breaded, and the horse also panted at him like a pig.
The king thought he was a god, so he allowed the child's mother to adopt him and named him Shuming.
When Shuming grew up, he was good at archery. The king hated his bravery and wanted to kill him.
Dongming escaped, went south to Yishui, and struck the water with his bow. As a result, all the fish and turtles gathered and floated to the surface. Shuming was able to cross the river on the fish and turtles, and he went to Fuyu and became the king there.
The land of Fuyu State is the flattest and most open among the Dongyi regions, and the soil is suitable for growing grains.
That bundle produced famous horses, red jade, mink uranium, and jade beads as big as jujubes.
They built a walled city with palisades, and within the city were palaces, warehouses, and prisons.
The people there are strong and brave but cautious and kind-hearted, and do not engage in invasion and looting.
They used bows and arrows and swords and spears as weapons.
They use the six animals as their official names, including horse, ox, and dog, and the cities and villages are all under the jurisdiction of each official. They use Zu and Dou to eat and drink. During court meetings, they practice the etiquette of paying homage, washing titles, and bowing to ascenders and descenders.
They worship the gods in the twelfth lunar month and hold grand gatherings for many days, eating, drinking, singing and dancing together, which is called "Yinggu".
At this time, we should stop using torture and arresting people in prison, and release the prisoners.
When a war breaks out, they also sacrifice to heaven, kill cows, and use their hooves to predict good or bad luck.
Pedestrians on the road like to sing and shout, no matter day or night, and their singing never stops.
The custom in Nabu was to use severe punishment, and all the family members of those who were executed were taken into slavery.
The penalty for stealing something is twelve times the amount.
Adultery between men and women was punished to death, especially vicious and jealous women. After being killed, their bodies were placed on the mountain.
When the elder brother dies, the younger brother takes his sister-in-law as his wife.
After death, there is an outer coffin but no inner coffin.
They killed living people and buried them in hundreds of people.
The king was buried in a jade box. The Han court often gave the jade box to Xuantu County in advance. When the king died, he sent people to pick up the jade box and bury the king.
During the Jianwu period, all the countries in Dongyi came to contribute and pay homage.
In the twenty-fifth year, King Fuyu sent envoys to offer tribute, and Guangwu rewarded them generously. From then on, the envoys communicated with each other every year.
In the fifth year of Emperor An's reign, King Fuyu led seven or eight thousand infantry and cavalry troops to invade and plunder Lelang for the first time, killing and injuring officials and people, and later surrendered again.
summary:
The text then details specific Yi groups, starting with Fuyu, located north of Xuantu. Fuyu was a flat, fertile land producing horses, jade, and mink. Its people were strong, brave, and kind, using bows and swords, and practicing rituals like the "Yinggu" festival. They had severe punishments, including execution for adultery and theft, and practiced levirate marriage. Burial customs involved jade boxes for kings, provided by the Han court. Fuyu engaged in tribute and conflict with Han, including invasions under King An and later defeats by Gongsunyu.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
东沃沮在高句骊盖马大山之东，东滨大海，北与挹娄、夫余，南与濊貊接。
其地东西夹，南北长，可折方千里。
土肥美，背山向海，宜五谷，善田种，有邑落长帅。
人性质直强勇，便持矛步战。
言语、食饮、居处，衣服，有似句骊。
其葬，作大木椁，长十余丈，开一头为户，新死者先假埋之，令皮肉尽，乃取骨置椁中。
家人皆共一椁，刻木如生，随死者为数焉。
武帝灭朝鲜，以沃沮地为玄菟郡。
后为夷貊所侵，徙郡于高句骊西北，更以沃沮为县，属乐浪东部都尉。
至光武罢都尉官，后皆以封其渠帅，为沃沮侯。
其土迫小，介于大国之间，遂臣属句骊。
句骊复置其中大人为使者，以相监领，责其租税，貂、布、鱼、盐、海中食物，发美女为婢妾焉。
又有北沃沮，一名置沟娄，去南沃沮八百余里。
其俗皆与南同。
界南接挹娄。
挹娄人喜乘船寇抄，北沃沮畏之，每夏辄臧于岩穴，至冬船道不通，乃下居邑落。
其耆者言，尝于海中得一布衣，其形如中人衣，而两袖长三丈。
又于岸际见一人乘破船，顶中复有面，与语不通，不食而死。
又说海中有女国，无男人。
或传其国有神井，窥之辄生子云。濊北与高句骊、沃沮，南与辰韩接，东穷大海，西至乐浪。
濊及沃沮、句骊，本皆朝鲜之地也。
昔武王封箕子于朝鲜，箕子教以礼义田蚕，又制八条之教。
其人终不相益，无门户之闭。
妇人贞信。
饮食以笾豆。
其后四十余世，至朝鲜侯准自称王。
translation: 
Shuwoju is located on the side of Gaima Mountain in Gaoguli, with the sea to the east, bordering Yilou and Fuyu to the north, and Guqi to the south.
Shuwoju is narrow in the east-west direction and long in the north-south direction, which can be equivalent to a thousand miles square.
The land there is fertile, backed by mountains and facing the sea, and is suitable for grain growth. The people are good at farming and have village leaders.
The people in Nabu are naturally upright, brave and tenacious, and are good at fighting on foot with a spear in hand.
There are similarities between speech, food, shelter, clothing and sentences.
For their funeral, a large wooden coffin was built. It is more than ten feet long. One end of the wooden coffin is dug out to serve as a door. The newly deceased is buried temporarily to let the skin and flesh rot away, and then the bones are taken out and put into the coffin.
The whole family was put into a coffin. They used wood to carve the image of the deceased in life, and the number of images they carved increased with the number of dead people.
Emperor Wu subtracted North Korea and made the Woju area Xuantu County.
Later, it was invaded by barbarians, and Xuantu County was moved to the northwest of Gaoguli, while Woju was changed to a county, under the jurisdiction of the eastern Lelang Commandery.
At the time of Guangwu, the captaincy officers were removed, and later these places were granted the title of Wojuhou, the leader of Woju.
Woju's land was small and sandwiched between big countries, so it belonged to Gouli.
Gouli also appointed the chief among them as envoys to supervise Woju, requiring Woju to pay taxes, mink, cloth, fish, salt, and food from the sea, and recruit Woju's beauties as maids and concubines.
There is also Beiwoju, also known as Zhigoulou, which is more than 800 miles away from Nanwoju.
The customs of North Woju are the same as those of South Woju.
The southern part of the border is connected with Yilou.
The Yilou people like to invade and plunder by boat, and the people in Beiwoju are afraid. Every summer, they often hide in rock caves and wrap their faces. In winter, when the waterway for boats is blocked, they go down the mountains and live in villages.
The old man who wrapped it said that he once got a piece of coarse cloth in the sea. The shape of the clothes was like that worn by a man of average height, but the two sleeves were three feet long.
On the shore, I saw a man riding a broken boat with a face on his head. He and he couldn't understand each other. He died without eating.
He also said that there is a kingdom of girls in the sea, where there are no men.
Some legends say that there is a sacred well in the Daughter Kingdom, and you can give birth to a child if you look at the sacred well. It borders Gaoguli and Shuanghui in the far north, borders Lihan in the south, connects directly to the sea on the far side, and leads to Lelang in the west.
Zi, Woju, and Gouli were originally places in Korea.
In the past, King Wu of Zhou Dynasty granted Korea to Jizi. Jizi taught the people etiquette and the techniques of farming and raising silkworms, and also formulated eight prohibitions.
People there never steal from each other, and there is no need to close their doors.
Women are chaste and trustworthy.
When eating and drinking, use canopies and beans as ritual utensils.
More than forty generations later, Hou Zhun came to North Korea and claimed the title of king.
summary:
Yilou, northeast of Fuyu, was a mountainous, cold region where people lived in caves and wore pigskin. They were brave archers using poisoned arrows and were known for plundering. Gaoguli, south of Fuyu, had five tribes and a history of conflict with Han, including invasions and tribute missions. Their customs included sacrifices to heaven, singing and dancing, and severe punishments. Woju, near Gaoguli, was fertile and known for farming and foot combat. Their burial practices involved large wooden coffins and bone collection.

