Chunk 0: 
original: 
卫瓘子恆孙璪玠张华子祎韪刘卞卫瓘，字伯玉，河东安邑人也。
高祖暠，汉明帝时，以儒学自代郡征，至河东安邑卒，因赐所亡地而葬之，子孙遂家焉。
父觊，魏尚书。
瓘年十岁丧父，至孝过人。
性贞静有名理，以明识清允称。
袭父爵阌乡侯。
弱冠为魏尚书郎。
时魏法严苛，母陈氏忧之，瓘自请得徙为通事郎，转中书郎。
时权臣专政，瓘优游其间，无所亲疏，甚为傅嘏所重，谓之甯武子。
在位十年，以任职称，累迁散骑常侍。
陈留王即位，拜侍中，持节慰劳河北。
以定议功，增邑户。
数岁转廷尉卿。
瓘明法理，每至听讼，小大以情。
translation: 
Wei Guan, courtesy name Boyu, was born in Anyi, Hedong Province.
During the reign of Emperor Ming of the Han Dynasty, the great ancestor Wei Hao was recruited by the imperial court from Dai County for his proficiency in Confucianism. He went to Anyi, Hedong, and died. The land where he died was given to him for burial, and his descendants settled there.
His father, Wei Jian, was the Minister of Wei.
Wei Guan's father passed away when he was ten years old, and his extreme filial piety exceeded that of ordinary people.
He has a quiet temperament and is good at distinguishing right from wrong, and is known for being knowledgeable and fair.
Inherited his father's title of Marquis of Yuexiang.
At the age of twenty, he became the minister of Wei.
At that time, Wei's laws were strict and detailed, and his mother Chen was worried. Wei Guan asked to be transferred to Tongshilang, and was later transferred to Zhongshulang.
At that time, the court officials were in exclusive power, and Wei Guan was among them. He had no distinction between those who were in power and those who were in power. He was highly regarded by Fu Gu, who called him Ning!
After ten years in the official position, he was known for his competence and was gradually promoted to the rank of regular attendant.
When King Chenliu came to the throne, he paid homage to his ministers and went to Hebei to express his condolences.
Because of the merits of agreeing on major events, the number of households in the fief was increased.
A few years later, he was transferred to Tingweiqing.
Wei Guan is well versed in legal principles, and every time he judges a case, he bases his judgment on reason, no matter how big or small the case is.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
邓艾、钟会之伐蜀也，瓘以本官持节监艾、会军事，行镇西军司，给兵千人。
蜀既平，艾辄承制封拜。
会阴怀异志，因艾专擅，密与瓘俱奏其状。
诏使槛车征之，会遣瓘先收艾。
会以瓘兵少，欲令艾杀瓘，因加艾罪。
瓘知欲危己，然不可得而距，乃夜至成都，檄艾所统诸将，称诏收艾，其余一无所问。
若来赴官军，爵赏如先；敢有不出，诛及三族。
比至鸡鸣，悉来赴瓘，唯艾帐内在焉。
平旦开门，瓘乘使者车，径入至成都殿前。
艾卧未起，父子俱被执。
艾诸将图欲劫艾，整仗趣瓘营。
瓘轻出迎之，伪作表草，将申明艾事，诸将信之而止。
俄而会至，乃悉请诸将胡烈等，因执之，囚益州解舍，遂发兵反。
translation: 
When Deng Ai and Zhong Hui conquered Shu, Wei Gan used his former official position to supervise the military affairs of Deng Ai and Zhong Hui, and also served as the Zhenxi Military Division, with a thousand soldiers.
After the Shu Kingdom was pacified, Deng Ai was granted the title in accordance with the emperor's will.
Zhong Hui secretly harbored rebellious intentions because Deng Ai was dictatorial and arbitrary, so he secretly reported the situation with Wei Guan.
The emperor issued an edict to send a guard to arrest Deng Ai, and Zhong Hui sent a guard to arrest Deng Ai first.
Zhong Hui believed that Deng Ai had few soldiers and wanted Deng Ai to kill Wei Guan in order to aggravate Deng Ai's crime.
Wei Guan knew that Zhong Hui wanted to harm him, but he could not refuse, so he arrived in Chengdu at night and sent a message to the generals led by Deng Ai, claiming that he had issued an imperial edict to arrest Deng Ai, and the others ignored him.
If you come to join the army, you will still be rewarded with titles; if you dare not come and join the army, the three clans will be killed.
When the cries of war broke out, they all came to defend Wei Guan. Only Deng Ai's entourage was still there.
When the doors opened at dawn, Wei Guan took the messenger's vehicle and went directly to the Chengdu Palace.
Deng Ai fell asleep before he got up, and both his father and son were captured.
Several generals under Deng Ai planned to kidnap Deng Ai back and went straight to Wei Guan's camp with weapons.
Wei Guan came out of the camp to meet them. He pretended to write a draft of the above table and was going to explain Deng Ai's affairs. The generals believed him and gave up.
As soon as Zhong Hui arrived, he invited all the generals Hu Lie and others, took the opportunity to capture them, imprisoned them in Yizhou Prison, and then sent troops to rebel.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
于是士卒思归，内外骚动，人情忧惧。
会留瓘谋议，乃书版云 欲杀胡烈等 ，举以示瓘，瓘不许，因相疑贰。
瓘如厕，见胡烈故给使，使宣语三军，言会反。
会逼瓘定议，经宿不眠，各横刀膝上。
在外诸军已潜欲攻会。瓘既不出，未敢先发。
会使瓘慰劳诸军。
瓘心欲去，且坚其意，曰： 卿三军主，宜自行。
会曰： 卿监司，且先行，吾当后出。
瓘便下殿。
会悔遣之，使呼瓘。
瓘辞眩疾动，诈仆地。
比出阁，数十信追之。
瓘至外解，服盐汤，大吐。
瓘素羸，便似困笃。
会遣所亲人及医视之，皆言不起，会由是无所惮。
及暮，门闭，瓘作檄宣告诸军。
诸军并已唱义，陵旦共攻会。
会率左右距战，诸将击败之，唯帐下数百人随会绕殿而走，尽杀之。
瓘于是部分诸将，群情肃然。
邓艾本营将士复追破槛车出艾，还向成都。
瓘自以与会共陷艾，惧为变，又欲专诛会之功，乃遣护军田续至绵竹，夜袭艾于三造亭，斩艾及其子忠。
初，艾之入江由也，以续不进，将斩之，既而赦焉。
及瓘遣续，谓之曰： 可以报江由之辱矣。
translation: 
As a result, the soldiers were worried about returning home, there was turmoil inside and outside, and people were worried and fearful.
Zhong Hui left Wei Guan to plan and discuss, and wrote on his hand that he planned to kill Hu Lie and others. He raised his hand to show Wei Guan, but Wei Guan refused, so they became suspicious of each other.
Wei Guan went to the toilet and saw Hu Lie's former entourage, and asked him to inform the three armies that Zhong Hui would rebel.
Zhong Hui forced Wei Guan to make a decision and stayed up all night, each holding a knife across his knees.
The armies outside had secretly planned to attack Zhonghui, but because Wei Guan had not come out, they did not dare to take action first.
Zhong will ask Wei Guan to comfort the troops.
Wei Guan wanted to leave, so he tried to keep Zhong Hui from changing his mind, saying: "You are the commander-in-chief of the armed forces, so you should go in person."
Zhong Hui said: You are the supervisor, you go first, and I will go later.
Wei Guan went down to the palace.
Zhong Hui regretted sending Wei Guan and asked someone to recall Wei Guan.
Wei Guan refused on the grounds of dizziness and pretended to fall to the ground.
When he got out, dozens of messengers chased him.
Wei Guan went outside, drank salt soup, and vomited violently.
Wei Guanzi was weak, so he appeared to be seriously ill.
Zhong Hui sent his cronies and doctors to visit him, but they all said that he could not get out of bed, so Zhong Hui was unscrupulous.
Waiting until sunset, the city gates were closed, and Wei Cui wrote a message to inform all the armies.
All armies responded to the righteous deed and attacked Zhonghui together at dawn.
Zhong Hui led the resistance from the left and right, and the generals defeated him. Only a few hundred people in his tent followed Zhong Hui and fled around the palace, but they were all killed.
Wei Quan deployed the generals and the morale of the army was in order.
The soldiers from Deng Ai's headquarters caught up with the broken carriage, rescued Deng Ai, and returned to Chengdu.
Wei Gan thought he was working with Zhong Hui to capture Deng Ai. He was afraid of an incident and wanted to take all the credit for killing Zhong Hui, so he sent his army guard Tian Xu to Mianzhu to attack Deng Ai at night in Sanzaoting, killing Deng Ai and his son Deng Zhong.
When Deng Ai entered Jiangyou, he was about to kill Tian Xu because he refused to join him, but later pardoned him.
When Wei Cui sent Tian Xu, he said to him: You can avenge Jiang You's humiliation.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
事平，朝议封瓘。
瓘以克蜀之功，群帅之力，二将跋扈，自取灭亡，虽运智谋，而无搴旗之效，固让不受。
除使持节、都督关中诸军事、镇西将军，寻迁都督徐州诸军事、镇东将军，增封菑阳侯，以余爵封弟实开阳亭侯。
泰始初，转征东将军，进爵为公，都督青州诸军事、青州刺史，加征东大将军、青州牧。
所在皆有政绩。
除征北大将军、都督幽州诸军事、幽州刺史、护乌桓校尉。
至镇，表立平州，后兼督之。
于时幽并东有务桓，西有力微，并为边害。
瓘离间二虏，遂致嫌隙，于是务桓降而力微以忧死。
朝廷嘉其功，赐一子亭侯。
瓘乞以封弟，未受命而卒，子密受封为亭侯。
瓘六男无爵，悉让二弟，远近称之。
累求入朝，既至，武帝善遇之，俄使旋镇。
translation: 
After the matter was settled, the court discussed granting Wei Guan the title.
Wei Guan believed that the conquest of Shu was due to the strength of the generals. Generals Zhong Hui and Deng Ai were domineering and brought their own destruction. Although he used his resourcefulness, he did not take the credit for taking down the enemy flag, so he resolutely refused to accept it.
Wei Cui was granted the title of Envoy Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Guanzhong, and General of Zhenxi. Soon he was appointed Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Guanzhong, and General of Zhendong. He was granted the title of Marquis of Miaoyang, and the remaining titles were given to his younger brother Wei Shi as Marquis of Kaiyangting.
In the early years of Taishi, he was transferred to the post of General Zhengshu, and his title was promoted to Duke. He was in charge of all military affairs in Qingzhou and the governor of Qingzhou. He was also awarded the title of General Zhengshu and Qingzhou Mu.
There are political achievements wherever he works.
He was awarded the title of General of Peking University, Commander-in-Chief of Youzhou's military affairs, Youzhou's governor, and Wuhuan's captain.
When you arrive at your post, please set up Pingzhou, and then take charge of Pingzhou.
At that time, Youzhou Bingzhou had Wuhuan in the east and Weiwei in the west, which was a scourge on the border.
Wei Guan alienated the two of them, causing them to become suspicious and enmity. Wu Huan surrendered and Li Wei died of sorrow and anger.
The imperial court commended Wei Guan for his achievements and gave him a son as Tinghou.
Wei Guan asked for the title of his younger brother, but he died before he could be granted the title. His son Wei Mi was granted the title of Marquis of Ting.
Wei Guan's six sons did not have titles, so they were all given to his two younger brothers. This was praised by people near and far.
He repeatedly requested to enter the court. After entering the court, Emperor Wu treated him well and soon allowed him to return to guard.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
咸宁初，征拜尚书令，加侍中。
性严整，以法御下，视尚书若参佐，尚书郎若掾属。
瓘学问深博，明习文艺，与尚书郎敦煌索靖俱善草书，时人号为 一台二妙 。
汉末张芝亦善草书，论者谓瓘得伯英筋，靖得伯英肉。
太康初，迁司空，侍中、令如故。
为政清简，甚得朝野声誉。
武帝敕瓘第四子宣尚繁昌公主。
瓘自以诸生之胄，婚对微素，抗表固辞，不许。
又领太子少傅，加千兵百骑鼓吹之府。
以日蚀，瓘与太尉汝南王亮、司徒魏舒俱逊位，帝不听。
瓘以魏立九品，是权时之制，非经通之道，宜复古乡举里选。
与太尉亮等上疏曰： 昔圣王崇贤，举善而教，用使朝廷德让，野无邪行。
translation: 
In the early years of Xianning, he was recruited to serve as Shangshu Ling and serve as a minister.
He is strict by nature and manages his subordinates according to the law. He regards the minister as an assistant and the minister as a subordinate official.
Wei Gan had profound knowledge and was familiar with literature and art. He was good at cursive calligraphy along with Suo Jing of Dunhuang. People at that time said that "one minister can save two masters".
Zhang Zhi was also good at cursive calligraphy in the late Han Dynasty. Commentators said that Wei Quan got the strength of Boying's calligraphy, and Suo Jing got the flesh of Boying's calligraphy.
In the early years of Taikang, he was promoted to Sikong, but his positions of Shizhong and Shangshuling remained.
His honest and concise administration was highly praised both inside and outside the court.
Emperor Wu arranged for Wei Xuan, Wei Gan's fourth son, to marry Princess Fanchang.
Wei Gan believed that he was a descendant of a Confucian disciple, and his marriage was not a prominent one. He refused outright, but the emperor did not allow it.
He also served as the prince's young master, and was awarded the title of a mansion with thousands of soldiers and hundreds of cavalry.
Because of the solar eclipse, Wei Gan and Taiwei Runan Wang Sima Liang and Situ Wei Shu all requested to give up their official positions, but the emperor refused.
Wei Guan believed that the nine-level Zhongzheng system established by Wei was a temporary system, not a long-term solution, and the ancient rural selection and recommendation system should be restored.
He and Taiwei Sima Liang and others wrote in Shangshu: In the past, sage kings respected wise men and recommended talented people for education, so that the court would be benevolent, virtuous and modest, and there would be no evil behavior outside the court.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
诚以闾伍之政，足以相检，询事考言，必得其善，人知名不可虚求，故还修其身。
是以崇贤而俗益穆，黜恶而行弥笃。
斯则乡举里选者，先王之令典也。
自兹以降，此法陵迟。
魏氏承颠覆之运，起丧乱之后，人士流移，考详无地，故立九品之制，粗且为一时选用之本耳。
其始造也，乡邑清议，不拘爵位，褒贬所加，足为劝励，犹有乡论余风。
中间渐染，遂计资定品，使天下观望，唯以居位为贵，人弃德而忽道业，争多少于锥刀之末，伤损风俗，其弊不细。
今九域同规，大化方始，臣等以为宜皆荡除末法，一拟古制，以土断，定自公卿以下，皆以所居为正，无复悬客远属异土者。
如此，则同乡邻伍，皆为邑里，郡县之宰，即以居长，尽除中正九品之制，使举善进才，各由乡论。
然则下敬其上，人安其教，俗与政俱清，化与法并济。
人知善否之教，不在交游，即华竞自息，各求于己矣。
今除九品，则宜准古制，使朝臣共相举任，于出才之路既博，且可以厉进贤之公心，核在位之明暗，诚令典也。
translation: 
It is indeed because the politics of the people in the village are enough to supervise each other, consult on things and evaluate opinions, and there will definitely be wise men among them. People's reputation cannot be obtained out of thin air, but should be cultivated themselves.
Therefore, when the virtuous are revered, the customs become more solemn, and when the wicked are deposed, the behavior of the people becomes more sincere.
Therefore, the selection and recommendation by the township is a beautiful example of the late king.
Since then, the approach has fallen into decline.
Wei inherited a subversive national destiny. It arose after death and war. People were displaced and moved, and there was no fixed place for detailed assessment. Therefore, the system of nine grades was established as a temporary basis for selecting talents.
When this system was first established, the rural appraisals were not limited to titles. The praise and criticism of people were enough to encourage and inspire, and there was also the spirit of rural commentary.
The middle gradually became polluted, so seniority was used to determine grades, making people in the world believe that only high positions are noble. People abandoned virtue and ignored morality, fought for small gains, and violated morals. The disadvantages are not small.
Now that the world is unified and enlightenment is beginning, we believe that all those bad laws and regulations should be eliminated and based entirely on the ancient system, judging by the place of residence, it is stipulated that from the public minister down, all officials from the place of residence will be appointed, and no more guests or people from other places will be appointed.
In this way, all neighbors from the same township are from the same town. Officials in counties and counties will appoint elders from the township. The system of Zhongzheng Jiupin will be completely abolished, so that the recommendation of talents will be determined by the township.
In this way, the subordinates will respect the superior, the people will be content with education, customs and politics will be clear, and education and laws will be successful.
People know that the education of good and bad does not lie in communication. In this way, the flashy competition will naturally stop, and people will demand themselves.
If the Nine Ranks are abolished, the ancient system should be used as the standard, allowing courtiers to recommend and appoint each other, creating a way to appoint talents, inspiring the public spirit of recommending talents, and assessing the political performance of those in office. This is indeed a good system.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
武帝善之，而卒不能改。
惠帝之为太子也，朝臣咸谓纯质，不能亲政事。
瓘每欲陈启废之，而未敢发。
后会宴陵云台，瓘托醉，因跪帝床前曰： 臣欲有所启。
帝曰： 公所言何耶？
瓘欲言而止者三，因以手抚床曰： 此座可惜！
帝意乃悟，因谬曰： 公真大醉耶？
瓘于此不复有言。
贾后由是怨瓘。
宣尚公主，数有酒色之过。
杨骏素与瓘不平，骏复欲自专权重，宣若离婚，瓘必逊位，于是遂与黄门等毁之，讽帝夺宣公主。
瓘惭惧，告老逊立。
乃下诏曰： 司空瓘年未致仕，而逊让历年，欲及神志未衰，以果本情，至真之风，实感吾心。
今听其所执，进位太保，以公就第。
translation: 
Emperor Wu thought this memorial was a good one, but ultimately failed to reform it.
When Emperor Hui was the crown prince, the court officials said that he was simple and could not handle political affairs personally.
Wei Guan wanted to tell him how to kill him many times, but he didn't dare to say it.
Later, at a party and banquet at Lingyuntai, Wei Guan pretended to be drunk, knelt in front of the emperor's bed and said, "I want to present a memorial."
The emperor said: What do you want to say?
Wei Guan wanted to say it three times but stopped, so he touched the bed with his hand and said: What a pity this seat is!
The emperor understood clearly, but deliberately pretended not to understand and said: Are you really drunk?
Wei Quan was never mentioned again.
Empress Jia resented Wei Guan for this.
When Wei Xuan married a princess, he often committed drunkenness and lust.
Yang Jun had always been at odds with Jie Dui, and Yang Jun wanted to monopolize power. If Wei Xuan divorced, Wei Guan would be demoted, so he and Huangmen and other officials slandered Jie Xuan and persuaded the emperor to call the princess back from Wei Xuan.
Wei Gan was afraid and asked to resign on the grounds of old age.
The emperor issued an edict for this purpose and said: Sikong Weigan has not yet reached the age of resignation, but he has requested to resign for many years. He hopes that his wish can be fulfilled before his mind fades. This extremely sincere feeling really moved me.
Now, in compliance with his wishes, he has been promoted to Taibao and returned home as a public servant.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
给亲兵百人，置长史、司马、从事中郎掾属；及大车、官骑、麾盖、鼓吹诸威仪，一如旧典。
给厨田十顷、园五十亩、钱百万、绢五百匹；床帐簟褥，主者务令优备，以称吾崇贤之意焉。
有司又奏收宣付廷尉，免瓘位，诏不许。
帝后知黄门虚构，欲还复主，而宣疾亡。
惠帝即位，复瓘千兵。
及杨骏诛，以瓘录尚书事，加绿綟绶，剑履上殿，入朝不趋，给骑司马，与汝南王亮共辅朝政。
亮奏遣诸王还籓，与朝臣廷议，无敢应者，唯瓘赞其事，楚王玮由是憾焉。
贾后素怨瓘，且忌其方直，不得骋己淫虐；又闻瓘与玮有隙，遂谤瓘与亮欲为伊霍之事，启帝作手诏，使玮免瓘等官。
黄门赍诏授玮，玮性轻险，欲聘私怨，夜使清河王遐收瓘。
左右疑遐矫诏，咸谏曰： 礼律刑名，台辅大臣，未有此比，且请距之。
须自表得报，就戮未晚也。
translation: 
A hundred soldiers were assigned, and officials such as chief officers, commanders, and servants were appointed. As for the carriages, official cavalry, command caps, propaganda and other ceremonial guards, all were handled according to the old regulations.
I will give you ten hectares of kitchen land, fifty acres of vegetable garden, one million dollars, and five hundred bolts of silk. The person in charge must prepare the bed tents and mats to satisfy my desire to respect the sage.
The officials also sent a petition to capture Wei Xuan and hand him over to the court captain, and to remove Wei Cui from his official position, but they issued an edict not to allow it.
The emperor later learned that Huangmen had fabricated the crime and planned to return it to Princess Wei Xuan, but Wei Xuan had died of illness.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and restored Wei Guan's own army of thousands of people.
When Yang Jun was executed, Wei Guan was appointed as the official secretary of the imperial court. He was given a green ribbon, wore a sword and wore shoes to go to the palace, and did not walk in a hurry when entering the court. He was assigned to ride a Sima and assisted the government together with Sima Liang, the king of Runan.
Sima Liang sent a petition to send all the kings back to the vassal territory and discuss it with the courtiers at the court. No one dared to respond. Only Wei Gan agreed to the matter. Sima Zhang, the king of Chu, hated him because of this.
Empress Jia had always resented Wei Guan and was jealous of his straightforwardness, which prevented her from being licentious and tyrannical. She also heard that Wei Guan and Sima Zhang were estranged, so she spread rumors that Wei Guan and Sima Liang planned to do what Yiyin Huoguang had done, and asked the emperor to issue an imperial edict and send Sima Zhang to remove Wei Guan and others from their official positions.
Huangmen sent an imperial edict to Sima Zhang. Sima Zhang was annoyed that Lu was frivolous and sinister, and wanted to vent his personal grudges, so he sent Qinghe King Sima Yao to arrest Wei Guan overnight.
Wei Guan's subordinates suspected that Sima Ya had forged the edict, and they all advised Wei Guan: "According to the etiquette and laws, there is no such treatment for Taiwan's ministers, so please refuse to obey."
It's not too late to wait until you get a reply from the list before going to be punished.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
瓘不从，遂与子恆、岳、裔及孙等九人同被害，时年七十二。
恆二子璪、玠，时在医家得免。
初，杜预闻瓘杀邓艾，言于众曰： 伯玉其不免乎！
身为名士，位居总帅，既无德音，又不御下以正，是小人而乘君子之器，当何以堪其责乎？
瓘闻之，不俟驾而谢。
终如预言。
初，瓘家人炊饭，堕地尽化为螺，岁余而及祸。
太保主簿刘繇等冒难收瓘而葬之。
初，瓘为司空，时帐下督荣晦有罪，瓘斥遣之。
及难作，随兵讨瓘，故子孙皆及于祸。
楚王玮之伏诛也，瓘女与国臣书曰： 先公名谥未显，无异凡人，每怪一国蔑然无言。
《春秋》之失，其咎安在？
悲愤感慨，故以示意。
于是繇等执黄幡，挝登闻鼓，上言曰： 初，矫诏者至，公承诏当免，即便奉送章绶，虽有兵仗，不施一刃，重敕出第，单车从命。
translation: 
Wei Cui refused to listen, so he was killed together with nine other people, including his sons Wei Heng, Wei Yue, Wei Yi and his grandson. He was seventy-two years old at the time.
Wei Heng's two sons, Wei Cao and Wei Jie, were able to escape the disaster at the time.
When Du Yu heard that Wei Guan had killed Deng Ai, he said to everyone: Boyu may not be immune to the disaster!
As a celebrity, in the position of commander-in-chief, without a good reputation, and without the right way to manage his subordinates, this is a villain taking advantage of the generosity of a gentleman. How should he bear the blame of others?
After Wei Guan heard about it, he couldn't wait to drive and went to apologize.
In the end, it was as predicted by Du Yu.
At first, Wei Guan's family was cooking, and when it fell on the ground, it turned into snails, and he died more than a year later.
Taibao Chief Secretary Liu Yao and others risked their lives to collect and bury Wei Cui's body.
At first, Wei Guan was appointed Sikong. At that time, the governor Ronghui was guilty, so Wei Guan rebuked him and expelled him.
When a disaster occurred, he followed the army to conquer Wei Guan, so his descendants were affected by the disaster.
After Sima Zhang, the king of Chu, was executed, Wei Guan's daughter wrote to the ministers: My late grandfather has not yet received his name and title, and he is no different from ordinary people. I often blame the people in the country for not speaking up for him.
Where does the blame for the mistakes of "Spring and Autumn" lie?
Feeling sad and angry, I wrote a letter to express my gratitude.
So Liu Yao and others held Huang Yao in their hands, beat the Dengwen drum, and told the emperor: When the person who falsely claimed the imperial edict arrived, the Duke received Shao Shu and said he should be dismissed. He immediately gave him a seal and ribbon. Although he had weapons, he did not move a sword or a gun. He also ordered the Duke to leave the house and ride a bicycle to obey the orders.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
如矫诏之文唯免公官，右军以下即承诈伪，违其本文，辄戮宰辅，不复表上，横收公子孙辄皆行刑，贼害大臣父子九人。
伏见诏书 为楚王所诳误，非本同谋者皆弛遣 。
如书之旨，谓里舍人被驱逼赍白杖者耳。
律，受教杀人，不得免死。
况乎手害功臣，贼杀忠良，虽云非谋，理所不赦。
今元恶虽诛，杀贼犹存。
臣惧有司未详事实，或有纵漏，不加精尽，使公父子仇贼不灭，冤魂永恨，诉于穹苍，酷痛之臣，悲于明世。
臣等身被创痍，殡敛始讫。
谨条瓘前在司空时，帐下给使荣晦无情被黜，知瓘家人数、小孙名字。
晦后转给右军，其夜晦在门外扬声大呼，宣诏免公还第。
及门开，晦前到中门，复读所赍伪诏，手取公章绶貂蝉，催公出第。
晦按次录瓘家口及其子孙，皆兵仗将送，著东亭道北围守，一时之间，便皆斩斫。
害公子孙，实由于晦。
及将人劫盗府库，皆晦所为。
考晦一人，众奸皆出。
乞验尽情伪，加以族诛。
诏从之。
朝廷以瓘举门无辜受祸，乃追瓘伐蜀勋，封兰陵郡公、增邑三千户，谥曰成，赠假黄钺。
恆字巨山，少辟司空齐王府，转太子舍人、尚书郎、秘书丞、太子庶子、黄门郎。
translation: 
According to the false edict, they only removed the duke from his official position. The right army and others followed the false edict and violated the original text and killed the prime ministers and assistants. Instead of going to court, they arbitrarily captured the duke's descendants and killed them, killing nine ministers, father and son.
We saw that the edict stated that those who were deceived by the King of Chu were not the original conspirators and were given leniency.
According to the purpose of the edict, it refers to people in private houses who are driven and persecuted and kill people with sticks.
The law stipulates that those who are ordered to kill cannot be exempted from the death penalty.
What's more, if you kill heroes and harm loyal people with your own hands, although you are not an accomplice, you cannot be forgiven.
Although the chief culprit has been killed, the murderer is still there.
We are afraid that the relevant officials are not clear about the facts, or have indulged in omissions, and have not eliminated the evil, so that the enemies of the father and son will not be eliminated, and the souls of the grievances will hold a grudge for a long time and complain to the sky. The extremely painful ministers will be sad in the clear world.
Those of us who have suffered physical trauma need to complete the funeral arrangements.
He solemnly stated to the emperor that when Wei Guan was Sikong, his attendant Rong Hui was dismissed for being dishonest. He knew the number of Wei Guan's family members and the names of his descendants.
Rong Hui later transferred to the Youjun Army. That night Rong Hui shouted loudly outside the door, announcing that Shao Shu had dismissed the Duke and returned home to serve the people.
When the door opened, Rong Hui entered the middle door, read out the false edict again, took the duke's official seal, ribbon and crown, and urged the duke to leave the house.
Rong Hui registered the population and descendants of Wei Gan's family in order, escorted them with weapons, and formed a circle to the north of Dongting Road to guard them. In a short time, they were all killed.
The reason for killing the Duke's descendants is really because of honor and disgrace.
As for instigating people to rob and steal the treasury, it was Rong Hui who did it.
Examine Rong Chabo, and all evil deeds come from him.
Request to verify the authenticity and impose the punishment of clan execution on him.
The edict complied with the memorial.
Because Wei Guan's family suffered an innocent disaster, the imperial court remembered Guan's achievements in conquering Shu and made him the Duke of Junjian.
Ziheng, whose courtesy name was Jushan, was requisitioned by the Sikongbian Palace when he was young. He was transferred to Prince Sheren, Shangshu Lang, Secretary Cheng, Prince Concubine, and Huang Menlang.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
恆善草隶书，为《四体书势》曰：
昔在黄帝，创制造物。
有沮诵、仓颉者，始作书契，以代结绳，盖睹鸟迹以兴思也。
因而遂滋，则谓之字，有六义焉。
一曰指事，上、下是也。
二曰象形，日、月是也。
三曰形声，江、河是也。
四曰会意，武、信是也。
五曰转注，老、考是也。
六曰假借，令、长是也。
夫指事者，在上为上，在下为下。
象形者，日满月亏，效其形也。
形声者，以类为形，配以声也。
会意者，止戈为武，人言为信也。
转注者，以老寿考也。
假借者，数言同字，其声虽异，文意一也。
自黄帝至三代，其文不改。
及秦用篆书，焚烧先典，而古文绝矣。
汉武时，鲁恭王坏孔子宅，得《尚书》、《春秋》、《论语》、《孝经》。
时人以不复知有古文，谓之科斗书。
汉世秘藏，希得见之。
translation: 
Ziheng was good at cursive calligraphy and wrote "Four Body Scripts":
In the past, during the Huangdi era, institutional museums were created.
Some people named Jusong and Cangjie began to invent words to replace knots. They were probably inspired by Wu's footprints.
Later, it was continuously improved and became a character. There are six ways to create characters.
One refers to things, such as up and down.
The second is pictograms, such as the sun and the moon.
The third is the phonetic sound, such as river and river.
The fourth is understanding, such as Wu and Xin.
The fifth is to transfer bets, such as Kao and Lao.
The sixth is borrowing, such as Ling and Chang.
The so-called referring to something is when it is above, it is up, and when it is below, it is down.
The so-called pictogram, the sun is round and the moon is curved, imitating its shape.
The so-called phonograms take things as shapes and then add sounds.
The so-called understanding, stopping war is force, and people's words are faith.
The so-called transfer of notes refers to the same meaning as Laohe Kao.
The so-called borrowing refers to several words of the same word. Although the sounds are different, the meaning is the same.
From the Yellow Emperor to the Three Dynasties, the writing has not changed.
In the Qin Dynasty, seal script was used and the ancient books of the previous dynasties were burned, so the ancient writing became extinct.
During the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, King Lu Gong demolished Confucius' house and obtained "Shangge", "Spring and Autumn", "The Analects of Confucius" and "The Classic of Filial Piety".
People at that time no longer knew that there were ancient writings and called them Kedouwen.
A rare treasure from the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
魏初传古文者，出于邯郸淳。
恆祖敬侯写淳《尚书》，后以示淳，而淳不别。
至正始中，立三字石经，转失淳法，因科斗之名，遂效其形。
太康元年，汲县人盗发魏襄王冢，得策书十余万言。
案敬侯所书，犹有仿佛。
古书亦有数种，其一卷论楚事者最为工妙。
恆窃悦之，故竭愚思，以赞其美，愧不足厕前贤之作，冀以存古人之象焉。
古无别名，谓之字势云。
黄帝之史，沮诵、仓颉，眺彼鸟迹，始作书契。
纪纲万事，垂法立制，帝典用宣，质文著世。
爰暨暴秦，滔天作戾，大道既泯，古文亦灭。
魏文好古，世传丘坟，历代莫发，真伪靡分。
大晋开元，弘道敷训，天垂其象，地耀其文。
translation: 
The first person to spread ancient writing in the Wei Dynasty came from Handan Chun.
Wei Heng's ancestor Jinghou copied Handan Chun's biography "Shang Shu" and later showed it to Handan Chun, but Handan Chun could not distinguish it.
In the Zhengshi period, the three-character stone scripture was established, and the calligraphy of Handan Chun was lost. According to the name of Kedouwen, the shape of Kedou was imitated.
In the first year of Taikang, people from Ji County dug up the tomb of King Xiang of Wei and obtained more than 100,000 words of policy books.
After examining Ding Jinghou's calligraphy, we can still get a general idea.
There are several kinds of ancient books, among which one volume is the best on Chu affairs.
Wei Heng liked it, so he tried his best to promote the beauty of his calligraphy. Unfortunately, it was not comparable to the works of the sages of previous generations, and he only hoped to preserve the style of the ancients.
In ancient times, there was no other name, so it was called Zishi.
Huangdi's historians, Jusong and Cangjie, were the first to invent writing by observing Wu's footprints.
Governing all things, formulating legal systems, promoting imperial regulations, and passing down the customs of the times to the world.
In the tyrannical Qin Dynasty, when the evil was rampant and morality was lost, ancient Chinese writing also disappeared.
Emperor Wen of Wei was fond of antiquity, and passed down "Nine Hills" and "Three Tombs" from generation to generation. No one in the past dynasties has elucidated them, and the authenticity cannot be distinguished.
The founding of the Jin Dynasty promoted morality and justice, heaven showed celestial phenomena, and the earth shone with literary talent.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
其文乃耀，粲矣其章，因声会意，类物有方：日处君而盈其度，月执臣而亏其旁；云委蛇而上布，星离离以舒光；禾卉苯以垂颖，山岳峨嵯而连冈；虫跂跂其若动，鸟似飞而未扬。
观其错笔缀墨，用心精专。势和体均，发止无间。
或守正循检，矩折规旋。或方员靡则，因事制权。
其曲如弓，其直如弦。
矫然特出，若龙腾于川。森尔下颓，若雨坠于天。
或引笔奋力，若鸿雁高飞，邈邈翩翩。或纵肆阿那，若流苏悬羽，靡靡绵绵。
是故远而望之，若翔风厉水，清波漪涟。就而察之，有若自然。
信黄唐之遗迹，为六艺之范先。
籀篆盖其子孙，隶草乃其曾玄。
睹物象以致思，非言辞之可宣。
昔周宣王时，史籀始著《大篆》十五篇，或与古同，或与古异，世谓之籀书者也。
translation: 
The literary talent is shining, splendid and orderly, and it can be understood according to the sound, and it can imitate things well: the ruler of the sun is perfect, and the ruler of the moon is weak; the clouds are calmly distributed in the sky, and the stars are twinkling; the crops are luxuriant and the ears are hanging, and the mountains are towering and continuous; insects seem to be crawling, and crows seem to be about to fly.
Watch the ancients use pen and ink carefully and carefully; the strokes are smooth and even, and there is no pause when starting and finishing the pen.
Some characters follow rules and regulations, and the square is square and the circle is round; some characters have no rules and are determined temporarily due to the content of the writing.
It is as curved as a bow and as straight as a string.
The beginning of the stroke is prominent, like a dragon flying over the mountains and rivers; the end of the stroke is gradually lighter, like rain falling from the sky.
Or use the pen vigorously, like a wild goose flying high, ethereal and graceful; or be unrestrained and graceful, like tassels and hanging feathers, fine and coherent.
Therefore, if you look at it from a distance, it looks like the wind blowing through the water, with clear ripples; if you look closer, it looks like nature.
I am convinced that Huang Tang’s deeds are a model of the Six Arts.
The seal characters in Zhen script are his descendants, and the cursive characters in official script are his great-grandsons.
Looking at objects can trigger thoughts that cannot be expressed in words.
In the past, during the reign of King Xuan of the Zhou Dynasty, Shi Zhou began to write fifteen chapters of "Da Zhuan". Some of the characters were the same as the ancient characters, and some were different from the ancient characters. This is what the world calls Zhou Shu.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
及平王东迁，诸侯力政，家殊国异，而文字乖形。
秦始皇帝初兼天下。
丞相李斯乃奏益之，罢不合秦文者，斯作《仓颉篇》，中车府令赵高作《爰历篇》，太史令胡毋敬作《博学篇》，皆取史籀大篆，或颇省改，所谓小篆者。或曰，下土人程邈为衙狱吏，得罪始皇，幽系云阳十年，从狱中作大篆，少者增益，多者损减，方者使员，员者使方，奏之始皇。
始皇善之，出以为御史，使定书。
或曰，邈所定乃隶字也。
自秦坏古文，有八体，一曰大篆，二曰小篆，三曰刻符，四曰虫书，五曰摹印，六曰署书，七曰殳书，八曰隶书。
王莽时，使司空甄丰校文字部，改定古文，复有六书。
一曰古文，孔氏壁中书也。
二曰奇字，即古文而异者也。
三曰篆书，秦篆书也。
四曰佐书，即隶书也。
五曰缪篆，所以摹印也。
六曰鸟书，所以书幡信也。
translation: 
By the time King Ping was in power, the princes were in power, there were differences between countries, and the form of writing was also different.
Qin Shihuang began to annex the world, and Prime Minister Li Si asked for improvements and abolished characters that were inconsistent with Qin's characters.
Li Yao wrote the "Cangjie Chapter", Zhongche Mansion ordered Zhao Gao to write the "Yanli Chapter", and Taishi ordered Hu Wujing to write the "Boxue Chapter". They all used Shi Zhen's large seal script, and some omitted and simplified it slightly, creating the so-called small seal script. Some people say that Cheng Miao, a local native, served as the jailer of the Yamen and offended Qin Shihuang. He was imprisoned in Yunyang for ten years.
The First Emperor thought it was good and asked him to serve as censor and arrange for him to formulate the text.
Some people say that what Cheng Miao settled on was the Li character.
Since the Qin Dynasty abolished ancient writing, there have been eight types of fonts: the first is large seal script, the second is small seal script, the third is engraved characters, the fourth is insect script, the fifth is imitation, the sixth is signature script, the seventh is Shu script, and the eighth is official script.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he sent Sikong Zhenfeng to approve the writing categories, revise the ancient writings, and produce six more books.
The first is ancient texts, which are the books in the wall of Confucius.
The second is odd characters, which are characters that are different from ancient characters to modern characters.
The third is seal script, which is the seal script of Qin.
The fourth is the assistant book. That is official script.
The fifth is Miao Zhuan, which is used for copying seals.
The sixth is bird script, which is used to write flags and letters.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
及许慎撰《说文》，用篆书为正，以为体例，最可得而论也。
秦时李斯号为二篆，诸山及铜人铭皆斯书也。
汉建初中，扶风曹喜少异于斯，而亦称善。
邯郸淳师焉，略究其妙，韦诞师淳而不及也。
太和中，诞为武都太守，以能书，留补侍中，魏氏宝器铭题皆诞书也。
汉末又有蔡邕，采斯喜之法，为古今杂形，然精密闲理不如淳也。
邕作《篆势》曰： 鸟遗迹，皇颉循。
圣作则，制斯文。
体有六，篆为真。
形要妙，巧入神，或龟文钅咸列，栉比龙鳞；纾体放尾，长短复身；颓若黍稷之垂颖，蕴若虫蛇之焚缊；扬波振撆，鹰歭鸟震；延颈胁翼，势似陵云。
translation: 
When Xu Shen wrote "Shuowen", seal script was used as the main body to form a style, which is easiest to see and talk about.
During the Qin Dynasty, Li Si was known to be good at seal script, and the inscriptions on various mountains and bronze figures were all written by Li Si.
During the early years of the Han Dynasty, Fufeng Cao happy was slightly different from Li Si, and was also praised by others.
Handan Chun took Cao Xi as his horse master and roughly explored the beauty of it. Wei Dan was not as good as Handan Chun who took Handan Chun as his master.
During the Taihe period, Wei Dan served as the prefect of Wudu. Because he was good at calligraphy, he stayed in Beijing to serve as a waiter. The inscriptions on the Wei family's utensils were all written by Wei Dan.
At the end of the Han Dynasty, there was Cai Yong, who adopted Li Si Caoxi's calligraphy and combined ancient and modern glyphs, but his precision and proficiency were not as good as those of Handan Chun.
Cai Yong's "Seal Script" said: Wu left his footprints, and Huang Jie followed them.
The sage made the rules and created the writing.
There are six types of fonts, with seal script being the most authentic.
The fonts are exquisite and clever. Some are as fine as tortoises, arranged like dragon scales; the fonts are slow and the suffixes are random, with long wings and short bodies; they are like the drooping ears of millet, like insects and snakes encountering fire; the waves are shaking, and the eagle stands erect and its wings are fluttering; the neck is drawn and the wings are folded, with the momentum of soaring clouds.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
或轻笔内投，微本浓末，若绝若连；似水露绿丝，凝垂下端；从者如悬，衡者如编；杳杪邪趣，不方不员；若行若飞，跂歉胗胗。
远而望之，象鸿鹄群游，骆驿迁延；迫而视之，端际不可得见。
指捴不可胜原。研桑不能数其诘屈，离娄不能睹其郤间，般倕揖让而辞巧，籀诵拱手而韬翰。
处篇籍之首目，粲斌斌其可观。
摛华艳于纨素，为学艺之范先。
喜文德之弘懿，愠作者之莫刊。
思字体之俯仰，举大略而论旃。
秦既用篆，奏事繁多，篆字难成，即令隶人佐书，曰隶字。
汉因行之，独符、印玺、幡信、题署用篆。
隶书者，篆之捷也。
上谷王次仲始作楷法。
至灵帝好书，时多能者，而师宜官为最，大则一字径丈，小则方寸千言，甚矜其能。
或时不持钱诣酒家饮，因书其壁，顾观者以酬酒，讨钱足而灭之。
translation: 
Some strokes are light in strokes and heavy in strokes, as if disconnected yet connected; like dew falling on silk and condensing at the lower end; straight strokes seem to be hanging, horizontal strokes like weaving; the strokes are profound and diagonal, neither square nor round; like walking and flying, with limbs soaring.
From a distance, it looks like a flock of flying swans in an endless stream; when you look closer, you can't see the edges, and you can't explore each stroke.
Yan Sang could not count the twists and turns of the strokes, Li Lou couldn't see the gaps in the strokes, Ban Chui bowed to the exquisiteness of the calligraphy, and Xi Chan also gave up his hand to hide the pen.
It is in the first position of the book and is impressive.
The beauty and splendor stretched out on plain silk is the first example to be mastered in learning the art.
I am happy for the beauty of literature and virtue, but I am angry because the author did not publish it.
Think about the font and admire it, give a rough outline and discuss it.
After the Qin Dynasty used seal script, there were many events and it was difficult to write seal characters, so they ordered lowly servants to write supplementary scripts, called official characters.
The Han Dynasty followed the official script, and only seal scripts were used for talisman, seals, flags, and inscriptions.
The so-called official script is a quick way of writing seal script.
Cizhong, the king of Shanggu, was the first to invent regular script.
By the time Emperor Ling was interested in calligraphy, there were many people who were good at calligraphy, but Shi Yiguan was the most famous. He could write large characters with a diameter of one foot, and small characters could write a thousand words within a square inch. He was very proud of his talent.
Sometimes I would go to a restaurant to drink without any money, and write words on the wall, and ask the viewers to pay for the wine. When the money was enough, the words would be cleared.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
每书辄削而焚其柎梁鹄乃益为版而饮之酒，候其醉而窃其柎。
鹄卒以书至选部尚书。
宜官后为袁术将，今钜鹿宋子有《耿球碑》，是术所立，其书甚工，云是宜官也。
梁鹄奔刘表，魏武帝破荆州，募求鹄。
鹄之为选部也，魏武欲为洛阳令，而以为北部尉，故惧而自缚诣门，署军假司马；在秘书以勤书自效，是以今者多有鹄手迹。
魏武帝悬著帐中，及以钉壁玩之，以为胜宜官。
今宫殿题署多是鹄篆。
鹄宜为大字，邯郸淳宜为小字。
鹄谓淳得次仲法，然鹄之用笔尽其势矣。
鹄弟子毛弘教于秘书，今八分皆弘法也。
汉末有左子邑，小与淳鹄不同，然亦有名。
魏初有钟胡二家为行书法，俱学之于刘德升，而钟氏小异，然亦各有巧，今大行于世云。
作《隶势》曰： 鸟迹之变，乃惟佐隶。
translation: 
The smeared crucible on the wall was chipped and burned after each writing session. Liang Hu prepared the wall board and invited him to drink. When he was drunk, he took the board away.
Liang Hu was eventually appointed Minister of the Ministry of Education because of his calligraphy.
Yiguan later became Yuan Shu's general. Now Julu Songzi has the "Geng Qiu Stele", which was erected by Yuan Shu. The calligraphy on it is very exquisite, and it is said that it was written by Yiguan.
Liang Hu defected to Liu Biao, and Emperor Wu of Wei conquered Jingzhou and recruited Liang Hu.
When Liang Hu was serving in the selection department, Emperor Wu of Wei wanted to serve as the order of Luoyang and appointed him as the Northern Lieutenant. Liang Hu tied himself up out of fear and sent him to the door, temporarily serving as a military fake Sima. He worked diligently in writing in the secretary's prison, so there are many Liang Hu's handwritings today.
Emperor Wu of Wei hung Liang Hu's calligraphy in the tent or nailed it to the wall for appreciation, thinking that it surpassed Yi Guan's calligraphy.
Nowadays, most palace inscriptions are in Liang Hu's seal script.
Liang Hu is suitable for writing large characters, and Handan Chun is suitable for writing small characters.
Liang Hu believed that Handan Chun had learned Cizhong's calligraphy, but Liang Hu exhausted all his strokes when using his pen.
Liang Hu's disciple Mao Hong taught in the Secretary's School, and today's eight-pointed style is all written by Mao Hong.
There is Zuo Ziyi in Mowei, which is slightly different from Handan Chun and Liang Hu, but it is also famous.
In the early Wei Dynasty, there were two families, Zhong and Hu, who wrote running script. They both studied under Liu Desheng. Although the Zhong family had slight differences, they also had their own ingenuity, which is now very popular in the world.
The author "Li Shi" said: A variant of the seal script that imitates Wuji is the auxiliary script or official script.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
蠲彼繁文，崇此简易。
厥用既弘，体象有度。
焕若星陈，郁若云布。
其大径寻，细不容发。
随事从宜，靡有常制。
或穹隆恢廓，或栉比针列，或砥平绳直，或蜿蜒胶戾，或长邪角趣，或规旋矩折。
修短相副，异体同势。
奋笔轻举，离而不绝。
纤波浓点，错落其间，若锺虡设张，庭燎尽烟，崭岩截嵯，高下属连。
似崇台重宇，增云冠山。
远而望之，若飞龙在天；近而察之，心乱目眩。
奇姿谲诡，不可胜原。
研桑所不能计，宰赐所不能言。
何草篆之足算，而斯文之未宣。
岂体大之难睹，将秘奥之不传？
聊俯仰而详观，举大较而论旃。
汉兴而有草书，不知作者姓名。
至章帝时，齐相杜度号善作篇。
后有崔瑗、崔寔，亦皆称工，杜氏杀字甚安，而书体微瘦。
translation: 
Get rid of the red tape and admire this simplicity.
It is both versatile and elegant.
Shining like stars in the sky, and gathering like dense clouds.
The large characters can reach a fathom in diameter, but there is no room for a hair between the small characters.
According to suitability, there are no fixed rules.
Some have broad domes, some are closely arranged, some are horizontal and vertical, some are meandering, some are long pens with diagonal angles, and some are round pens with twists and turns.
Matching the length and length, different fonts have the same momentum.
The pen is written lightly, free and uninterrupted.
The bundles of waves are thick and scattered among them.
It's like clocks and decorations, and the fires and candles in the courtyard are flying in smoke. It is steep and rugged, with high and low levels connected.
It's like a palace with overlapping tall towers added to the clouds and mountains. From a distance, it looks like a flying dragon in the sky; from close up, it's dizzying.
A magical form that cannot be explored.
Ji Yan and Sang Hongyang couldn't count the sheep, and neither could Zaiyu and Duanmuci.
Why is it that cursive seal script is enough for counting, but this style of writing has not been promoted.
Could it be that because the font is large and difficult to read, this mystery will not be passed down to the world?
Let's take a closer look and give an overview.
After the founding of the Han Dynasty, cursive script appeared, but the name of the author is unknown.
During the reign of Emperor Zhang of the Han Dynasty, Prime Minister Du Du was said to be good at calligraphy.
Later, there were Cui Yuan and Cui Shu, both of whom were also known for their skillful workmanship. Du's writing style is just right and the style of the writing is thin.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
崔氏甚得笔势，而结字小疏。
弘农张伯英者，因而转精甚巧。
凡家之衣帛，必书而后练之。
临池学书，池水尽黑。
下笔必为楷则，号匆匆不暇草书，寸纸不见遗，至今世尤宝其书，韦仲将谓之草圣。
伯英弟文舒者，次伯英。
又有姜孟颖、梁孔达，田彦和及韦仲将之徒，皆伯英弟子，有名于世，然殊不及文舒也。
罗叔景、赵元嗣者，与伯英并时，见称于西州，而矜巧自与，众颇惑之。
故英自称 上比崔杜不足，下方罗赵有余。
河间张超亦有名，然虽与崔氏同州，不如伯英之得其法也。
崔瑗作《草书势》曰： 书契之兴，始自颉皇。
写彼鸟迹，以定文章，爰暨末叶，典籍弥繁。
时之多僻，政之多权。
官事荒芜，剿其墨翰。
惟作佐隶，旧字是删。
草书之法，盖又简略。
应时谕指，用于卒迫。
兼功并用，爱日省力。
纯俭之变，岂必古式。
观其法象，俯仰有仪。
translation: 
Cui is good at strokes, but slightly worse at finishing.
Hongnong's Zhang Boying is more sophisticated on this basis.
All the clothes wrapped in the house must be written on and then considered.
I was practicing calligraphy in front of the pool, and the water was dark.
The writing must be standardized, and it is said that I am careless and have no time to write cursive. Not even an inch-sized piece of paper was left out. People still regard his calligraphy as a treasure, and Wei Zhong would call him the Sage of Grass.
Boying's younger brother Wenshu is not as good as Boying.
There are also people like Jiang Mengying, Chi Renqi, Dan Tongsu and Wei Zhongjiang. They are all disciples of Zhi Jin. They are famous in the world, but they are far inferior to Wen Shu.
Luo Shujing and Zhao Yuansi, contemporaries of Boying, were famous in Xizhou, but they were self-righteous and everyone was a little confused.
Therefore, Boying claimed that he was not as good as Cui Du at the top and more than Luo Zhao at the bottom.
Zhang Chao in Hejian was also famous, but although he lived in the same state as Cui, he was not as good at understanding the true meaning of calligraphy as Boying.
Cui Yuan wrote "Cursive Script Shi" and said: The rise of writing began with Emperor Jie.
Trace the bird's tracks to determine the text. In later generations, there were more and more classics.
Current affairs are evil and political power is scattered.
Government affairs are in ruins, endangering writing.
Only Zuoli is written, and the ancient form is deleted.
The writing method of cursive script is further simplified.
Record your speech promptly for use when time is of the essence.
Double the effect and save time and effort.
This simple and frugal change must not be based on ancient methods.
Looking at the image of the cursive calligraphy, the heights are staggered and beautiful.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
方不中矩，员不副规；抑左扬右，望之若崎。
竦企鸟歭，志大飞移。狡兽暴骇，将奔未驰。
或点，状似连珠，绝而不离；畜怒怫郁，放逸生奇。
或凌邃惴忄栗，若据槁临危；旁点邪附，似蜩螗挶枝。
绝笔收势，余綖纠结，若杜伯揵毒缘戏，螣蛇赴穴，头没尾垂。
是故远而望之，崔焉若沮岑崩崖；就而察之，一画不可移。
机微要妙，临时从宜。
略举大较，仿佛若斯。
及瓘为楚王玮所构，恆闻变，以何劭，嫂之父也，从墙孔中诣之，以问消息。
劭知而不告。
恆还经厨下，收人正食，因而遇害。
后赠长水校尉，谥兰陵贞世子。
二子：璪、玠。
璪字仲宝，袭瓘爵。
translation: 
The square is not straight and the circle is irregular; the left and right are suppressed and it looks like a rugged mountain.
Like a bird that stretches its neck and is independent, determined to fly; like a frightened beast that is about to run away.
Some are a bit sullen. The shape is like a string of beads, cut off but not separated; it contains anger and resentment, letting it go and creating wonders.
Some are as if they are standing in fear in front of a deep valley, as if they are facing danger by relying on withered grass; some are leaning on the side, like worms hanging on the branches.
The final stroke ends, and the remaining ink is extended and tangled, like a scorpion raising its poisonous hook in the gap, or a snake going to its hole, with its head inside the hole and its tail hanging outside.
Therefore, from a distance, it looks as tall as a collapsed cliff; when you look closer, not a single stroke can move.
Extremely subtle, improvised and appropriate writing style.
To give a rough outline, it looks like this.
When Wei Guan was framed by King Weibi of Chu, Ziheng heard the news. Since He Shao was his sister-in-law's father, he went to his house through the hole in the wall to inquire about the news.
He Shao knew but didn't tell him.
When Wei Heng came back, he passed by the kitchen and the captor was eating, so he was killed.
Later, he was given the posthumous title of Captain of Changshui and was given the title of Prince Lanling Zhen.
He has two sons: Wei Hong and Wei Jie.
Wei Hong, whose courtesy name was Zhongbao, inherited Wei Guan's title.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
后东海王越以兰陵益其国，改封江夏郡公，邑八千五百户。
怀帝即位，为散骑侍郎。
永嘉五年，没于刘聪。
元帝以瓘玄孙崇嗣。
玠字叔宝，年五岁，风神秀异。
祖父瓘曰： 此兒有异于众，顾吾年老，不见其成长耳！
总角乘羊车入市，见者皆以为玉人，观之者倾都。
骠骑将军王济，玠之舅也，俊爽有风姿，每见玠，辄叹曰： 珠玉在侧，觉我形秽。
又尝语人曰： 与玠同游，冏若明珠之在侧，朗然照人。
及长，好言玄理。
其后多病体羸，母恆禁其语。
遇有胜日，亲友时请一言，无不咨嗟，以为入微。
琅邪王澄有高名，少所推服，每闻玠言，辄叹息绝倒。
故时人为之语曰： 卫玠谈道，平子绝倒。
澄及王玄、王济并有盛名，皆出玠下，世云 王家三子，不如卫家一兒。
玠妻父乐广，有海内重名，议者以为 妇公冰清，女婿玉润。
translation: 
Later, Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, used Lanling to expand his feudal kingdom and changed it to Jiangxia County Duke, with a settlement of 8,500 households.
Emperor Huai ascended the throne and was appointed Minister of Sanqi.
In the fifth year of Yongjia, he died at the hands of Liu Cong.
Emperor Yuan gave Wei Guan successive heirs.
Wang Jie's courtesy name is Shubao. When he was five years old, his demeanor was different from ordinary people.
Grandfather Wei Guan said: This child is different, but I am too old to see him grow up!
When he was young, he rode a sheep cart to the market. Everyone who saw him thought he was a beauty, and people went to watch him.
General Wang Ji, Wei Jie's uncle, was handsome, forthright and graceful. Every time he saw Wei Jie, he would sigh and say, "I feel ugly when I have pearls and jade around me."
He once said to others: Traveling with Wei Gecko is like having bright beads beside you, shining brightly.
When I grow up, I like to talk about mysteries.
Later, he became sick and weak, and his mother often didn't let him talk much.
On a good day, relatives and friends would sometimes ask him to say a few words, and everyone would praise him, thinking that he had touched on the subtleties of what he said.
Langxie Wang Cheng was famous and rarely praised others. Whenever he heard Wei Gecko's remarks, he would sigh and fall in love.
For this reason, people at that time said: Wei Gecko talks about Tao, and Pingzi falls over.
Wang Cheng, Wang Xuan, and Wang Ji are all famous, and they are all inferior to Wei Gecko. People say that the three sons of the Wang family are not as good as the one son of the Wei family.
Wei Jie's father-in-law Yue Guang is famous throughout the country. Commentators believe that his father-in-law is as clear as ice and his son-in-law is as smooth as jade.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
辟命屡至，皆不就。
久之，为太傅西阁祭酒，拜太子洗马。
璪为散骑侍郎，内侍怀帝。
玠以天下大乱，欲移家南行。
母曰： 我不能舍仲宝去也。
玠启谕深至，为门户大计，母涕泣从之。
临别，玠谓兄曰： 在三之义，人之所重。
今可谓致身之日，兄其勉之。
乃扶舆母转至江夏。
玠妻先亡。
征南将军山简见之，甚相钦重。
简曰： 昔戴叔鸾嫁女，唯贤是与，不问贵贱，况卫氏权贵门户令望之人乎！
于是以女妻焉。
遂进豫章，是时大将军王敦镇豫章，长史谢鲲先雅重玠，相见欣然，言论弥日。
敦谓鲲曰： 昔王辅嗣吐金声于中朝，此子复玉振于江表，微言之绪，绝而复续。
不意永嘉之末，复闻正始之音，何平叔若在，当复绝倒。
玠尝以人有不及，可以情恕；非意相干，可以理遣，故终身不见喜愠之容。
以王敦豪爽不群，而好居物上，恐非国之忠臣，求向建鄴。
京师人士闻其姿容，观者如堵。
玠劳疾遂甚，永嘉六年卒，时年二十七，时人谓玠被看杀。
translation: 
The recruitment order came many times, but he never showed up.
A long time later, Taifu Ren Xihe offered wine and washed the prince's horse.
Wei Duo served as Sanqi Shilang and served Emperor Huai in the palace.
Wei Gecko planned to move to the south because of the chaos in the world.
Mother said: I can't leave Zhongbao behind.
Wei Jie explained the truth thoroughly, and for the sake of the family plan, my mother agreed to him with tears.
Before leaving, Wei Gecko said to his brother: The morality of respecting father, teacher and king is what people value.
Now it can be said that I am dedicated to serving the king, and my brother encourages himself.
So he escorted his mother to Jiangxia.
Wei Gecko's wife died first.
When Shan Jian, the general who conquered the south, saw Wei Chan, he admired him very much.
The mountain slips say: In the past, Dai Shuluan only married virtuous men, regardless of their status, not to mention that the Wei family was from a powerful and famous family!
So she married her daughter to him.
Then enter Yuzhang. At that time, the general Wang Dun was guarding Yuzhang, and the chief minister Xie Wan had always respected Wei Gecko before. He was very happy to meet him and talked with him for a whole day.
Wang Dun said to Xie Wan: In the past, Wang Fusi's speech in China and North Korea was like the sound of gold, and this person's speech in Jiangbiao was like the vibration of jade. His subtle speech was interrupted and continued.
Unexpectedly, in the last years of Yongjia, I heard Zhengshi's voice again. If Uncle He Ping was still here, he would definitely fall in love.
Wei Jie often believes that no one is perfect and can be forgiven; if the offense is not intentional, it can be dealt with according to reason, so he will never see his happy and angry face throughout his life.
Because Wang Dun was bold and unsociable, he liked to live among others, and he was probably not a loyal minister of the country. He took concrete and planned to build Ye.
People in the capital heard about the appearance of Basket Gecko, and those who watched him crowded into a wall.
Wei Jie's illness worsened due to overwork. He died in the sixth year of Yongjia at the age of twenty-seven. People at the time said that Wei Jie was expected to die.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
葬于南昌。
谢鲲哭之恸，人问曰： 子有何恤而致斯哀？
答曰： 栋梁折矣，不觉哀耳。
咸和中，改茔于江宁。
丞相王导教曰： 卫洗马明当改葬。
此君风流名士，海内所瞻，可修薄祭，以敦旧好。
后刘惔、谢尚共论中朝人士，或问： 杜乂可方卫洗马不？
尚曰： 安得相比，其间可容数人。
惔又云： 杜乂肤清，叔宝神清。
其为有识者所重若此。
于时中兴名士，唯王承及玠为当时第一云。
恆族弟展字道舒，历尚书郎、南阳太守。
永嘉中，为江州刺史，累迁晋王大理。
诏有考子证父，或鞭父母问子所在，展以为恐伤正教，并奏除之。
中兴建，为廷尉，上疏宜复肉刑，语在《刑法志》。
卒，赠光禄大夫。
张华，字茂先，范阳方城人也。
父平，魏渔阳郡守。
华少孤贫，自牧羊，同郡卢钦见而器之。
乡人刘放亦奇其才，以女妻焉。
华学业优博，辞藻温丽，朗赡多通，图纬方伎之书莫不详览。
少自修谨，造次必以礼度。
translation: 
Buried in Nanchang.
Xie Wan cried and he was very sad. Someone asked him: Why are you so sad?
The answer is: The pillars are broken, so I am sad.
In Xianhe, he was buried in Jiangning.
Prime Minister Wang Dao said: Wei Xima should indeed be reburied.
This person is a romantic and famous person who is looked up to by people from all over the world. He can prepare a small sacrifice to encourage his old friends.
Later, Liu Hui and Xie Shang discussed Chinese and Korean people together. Someone asked: Can Du Yi be compared with Wei Xima?
Xie Shang said: How can they be compared? The gap between them can accommodate several people.
Liu Hui added: Du You is pure in appearance, and Shu Ben is pure in spirit.
This is how Wei Gecko is highly regarded by knowledgeable people.
At that time, among the celebrities of ZTE, Wang Chenghe and Wei Jie were the number one at that time.
Wei Heng's younger brother Wei Zhan, named Daoshu, served successively as Shangshu Lang and Nanyang Prefect.
During the Yongjia period, he served as the governor of Jiangzhou and was gradually promoted to Dali, King of Jin Dynasty.
There are provisions in the Shao book about torture of sons to prove their father's sins, or whipping parents to ask where their sons are. Wei Zhan thought that this might harm the political religion, so he petitioned to abolish it.
During the Zhongxing Dynasty, he was appointed Tingwei. Shangshu said that corporal punishment should be restored. The matter was recorded in the book "Criminal Law Chronicles".
After his death, he was given posthumously to Dr. Guanglu.
Zhang Hua, courtesy name Maoxian, was born in Fangcheng, Fanyang.
His father, Zhang Ping, was the governor of Yuyang County in Wei.
When Zhang Hua was young, he was lonely and poor, tending sheep by himself. Lu Qin from the same county discovered him and valued him.
Liu Fang, a fellow countryman, also valued his talent and married his daughter to him.
Zhang Hua's studies are profound and extensive, his vocabulary is gorgeous, he is smart and erudite, and there is no book like Yuanwei Fanggui that he does not read carefully.
When he was young, he cultivated himself carefully and acted according to etiquette.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
勇于赴义，笃于周急。
器识弘旷，时人罕能测之。
初未知名，著《鹪鹩赋》以自寄。
其词曰：
何造化之多端，播群形于万类。
惟鹪鹩之微禽，亦摄生而受气，育翩翾之陋体，无玄黄以自贵；毛无施于器用，肉不登乎俎味。
鹰鹯过犹戢翼，尚何惧于罻！
翳荟蒙笼，是焉游集。
飞不飘扬，翔不翕集。
其居易容，其求易给；巢林不过一枝，每食不过数粒。
栖无所滞。游无所盘；匪陋荆棘，匪荣茝兰。
动翼而逸，投足而安。
委命顺理，与物无患。
伊兹禽之无知，而处身之似智。
不怀宝以贾害，不饰表以招累。
静守性而不矜，动因循而简易。
任自然以为资，无诱慕于世伪。
雕鹖介其觜距，鹄鹭轶于云际，鹍鸡窜于幽险，孔翠生乎遐裔，彼晨凫与归雁，又矫翼而增逝，咸美羽而丰肌，故无罪而皆毙；徒衔芦以避缴，终为戮于此世。
苍鹰鸷而受绁，鹦鹉慧而入笼，屈猛志以服养，塊幽絷于九重；变音声以顺旨，思摧翮而为庸。
translation: 
Be brave enough to do righteous deeds and provide relief to those in need.
Qi Du was so far-reaching that few people at that time could measure him.
At first he had no fame, so he wrote "Ode to the Quail" to express his ambition.
The text says:
Why does God create so many kinds of things and divide life in the world into tens of thousands of categories?
A tiny bird like the quail has to survive and breathe. It has a light and thin body, and has no color that makes it feel noble. Its hair is not used in utensils, and its meat cannot be used in sacrificial ritual vessels.
Even if the eagles and partridges fly by with their wings folded, why are they afraid of catching birds?
Between the trees and grass is a haunted place.
The flying is not graceful and the flying is not coordinated.
The place to live is easy to satisfy, and the requirements are easy to provide; the nest is only a branch, and each meal is only a few grains of rice.
There is no place to stay, and there is no place to enjoy and forget to return; do not regard thorns as ugliness, and do not take pride in vanilla.
Everything I do feels comfortable.
Let your fate dictate you and have nothing to do with the world.
This kind of bird looks ignorant, but it seems to be very wise in its way of life.
Not harboring treasures will lead to disaster, not polishing your appearance will lead to trouble.
Stay true to your nature quietly without being self-righteous, and behave conservatively and simply.
Let nature take its course and not be seduced by the hypocrisy of the world.
The eagle gulls were kept aloof by humans because of their sharp beaks and sharp claws, the swans and egrets also disappeared from the clouds, the eagles fled in the dark dangers, the peacocks survived in distant places, and the wild ducks and returning geese in the morning relied on fluttering their wings to escape, but they were killed for no reason because of their beautiful feathers and plump muscles.
The goshawk is ferocious but restrained, the parrot is smart and enters the birdcage, surrenders its strong will to obey the raising, and leaves its lonely thoughts in the nine heavens; it changes its voice to obey the order, and laments that it has broken its wings and becomes a slave.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
恋锺岱之林野，慕陇坻之高松。
虽蒙幸于于日，未若畴昔之从容。
海鸟爰居，避风而至；条支巨爵，逾岭自致；提挈万里，飘飖逼畏。
夫惟体大妨物，而形瑰足伟也。
阴阳陶烝，万品一区。
巨细舛错，种繁类殊。
鹪冥巢于蚊睫，大鹏弥乎天隅，将以上方不足而下比有余。
普天壤而遐观，吾又安知大小之所如。
陈留阮籍见之，叹曰： 王佐之才也！
由是声名始著。
郡守鲜于嗣荐华为太常博士。
卢钦言之于文帝，转河南尹丞，未拜，除佐著作郎。
顷之，迁长史，兼中书郎。
朝议表奏，多见施用，遂即真。
晋受禅，拜黄门侍郎，封关内侯。
华强记默识，四海之内，若指诸掌。
武帝尝问汉宫室制度及建章千门万户，华应对如流，听者忘倦，画地成图，左右属目。
帝甚异之，时人比之子产。
translation: 
I am nostalgic for the forests and fields of Mount Zhongdai and yearn for the tall pines of Longdi.
Although I am favored today, I am not as calm as in the past.
Seabirds migrate and fly here to avoid the wind; large birds with branches fly over the mountains and arrive on their own; they fly thousands of miles high and are forced by fear.
The big body is a hindrance, but the rare shape is enough to be praised.
Yin and yang mold, everything is in the same space.
Various sizes and varieties.
The pomfret borer makes its nest in a very small place, and the huge roc fills the sky. It will be inferior to those above and more than enough to the bottom.
Looking across the sky and the earth, how can I know what the size is.
Chen Liu and Ruan Ji read this fu and sighed: He has the ability to assist the king!
From then on his reputation began to grow.
The county governor Xian Yusi recommended Dr. Zhang Hua to Taichang.
Lu Qin proposed to Emperor Wen that he was transferred to Yin Cheng of Henan Province. Before taking office, he was appointed Zuozhu Lang.
Soon, he was promoted to chief historian and Zhongshu Lang.
Most of the discussions and memorials at the court were adopted and then turned into formal appointments.
The Jin Dynasty accepted the abdication, became the Minister of Huangmen, and was granted the title of Marquis of Guannei.
Zhang Hua has a strong memory of his extensive knowledge, and he knows everything within the four seas.
Emperor Wu once asked thousands of households about the palace system and the constitution of the Han Dynasty. Zhang Hua responded fluently, and the listeners forgot their fatigue. The map was completed, and everyone on the left and right paid attention.
The emperor was deeply surprised by him, and people at that time compared him to Zichan.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
数岁，拜中书令，后加散骑常侍。
遭母忧，哀毁过礼，中诏勉励，逼令摄事。
初，帝潜与羊祜谋伐吴，而群臣多以为不可，唯华赞成其计。
其后，祜疾笃，帝遣华诣祜，问以伐吴之计，语在《祜传》。
及将大举，以华为度支尚书，乃量计运漕，决定庙算。
众军既进，而未有克获，贾充等奏诛华以谢天下。
帝曰： 此是吾意，华但与吾同耳。
时大臣皆以为未可轻进，华独坚执，以为必克。
及吴灭，诏曰： 尚书、关内侯张华，前与故太傅羊祜共创大计，遂典掌军事，部分诸方，算定权略，运筹决胜，有谋谟之勋。
其进封为广武县侯，增邑万户，封子一人为亭侯，千五百户，赐绢万匹。
华名重一世，众所推服，晋史及仪礼宪章并属于华，多所损益。当时诏诰皆所草定，声誉益盛，有台辅之望焉。
而荀勖自以大族，恃帝恩深，憎疾之，每伺间隙，欲出华外镇。
会帝问华： 谁可托寄后事者？
对曰： 明德至亲，莫如齐王攸。
translation: 
A few years later, he was promoted to Zhongshu Ling, and later he was appointed as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
When his mother died, his grief exceeded etiquette. The emperor encouraged Shao and forced him to handle government affairs.
At the beginning, the emperor secretly planned to attack Wu with Yang Hu, but most of the officials thought it was not feasible. Only Zhang Hua agreed with this plan.
After that, Yang Hu fell seriously ill, and the emperor sent Zhang Hua to Yang Hu to ask him about his strategy to defeat Wu. The matter was recorded in the book "The Biography of Yang Hu".
When a large-scale operation was about to take place, Zhang Hua was appointed as the minister of support, arranged the transportation of baggage, and decided on the strategy.
After the army was dispatched, they failed to defeat the enemy. Jia Chong and others petitioned to kill Zhang Hua to apologize to the people.
The emperor said: This is my opinion, Zhang Hua just agrees with me.
At that time, all the ministers believed that we should not attack easily, but Zhang Hua insisted on his own opinion and believed that he would definitely win.
When the state of Wu was destroyed, the edict said: Zhang Hua, the Shangshu and the Marquis of Guannei, had previously worked with the late Taifu Yang Hu to formulate major plans, take charge of the military, deploy all forces, formulate strategies, and win decisive battles. He had the merit of initiating the plan.
The Jin Dynasty granted him the title of Marquis of Guangwu County, increased the number of households in the city by 10,000, granted one of his sons the title of Marquis of Ting, increased the number of households to 1,500, and granted him 10,000 bolts of silk.
Zhang Hua had a great reputation at that time and was admired and convinced by everyone. The history of Jin and the ceremonial charter were all handed over to Zhang Hua's supervision, with many additions, subtractions and improvements. He drafted and finalized all the edicts and proclamations at that time, and his reputation was even more prosperous, and he had the reputation of being a tutor in Taiwan.
Xun Xu believed that he was from a wealthy family and was favored by the emperor. He hated Zhang Hua and was jealous of him. He often waited for an opportunity and planned to demote Zhang Hua out of the capital and become a local official.
It happened that the emperor asked Zhang Hua: Who can be my successor?
He replied: No one can compare to Sima You, King of Qi, in terms of virtue and virtue.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
既非上意所在，微为忤旨，间言遂行。
乃出华为持节、都督幽州诸军事、领护乌桓校尉、安北将军。
抚纳新旧，戎夏怀之。
东夷马韩、新弥诸国依山带海，去州四千余里，历世未附者二十余国，并遣使朝献。
于是远夷宾服，四境无虞，频岁丰稔，士马强盛。
朝议欲征华入相，又欲进号仪同。
初，华毁征士冯恢于帝，紞即恢之弟也，深有宠于帝。
紞尝侍帝，从容论魏晋事，因曰； 臣窃谓锺会之衅，颇由太祖。
帝变色曰： 卿何言邪！ 紞免冠谢曰； 臣愚冗瞽言，罪应万死。
然臣微意，犹有可申。
translation: 
This was not the emperor's original intention, and it was somewhat contrary to his will, so alienating words became popular.
Zhang Hua was appointed as Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of the military forces in Youzhou, and under the command of Wuhuan Colonel and General Anbei.
Zhang Hua appeased and accepted the new and old residents, and Rong Xia surrendered.
The Shuyi, Mahan, and Xinmi countries are close to mountains and seas, more than four thousand miles away from the state. There are more than 20 countries that have no dependencies in the past, and now they all send envoys to pay tribute.
So the distant barbarians surrendered, and there were no worries in the surrounding areas. There were good harvests year after year, and the army and horses were strong.
The imperial court discussed plans to recruit Zhang Hua to Beijing as prime minister, and also planned to enshrine him as the third minister of Yitong.
At the beginning, Zhang Hua slandered Feng Hui in front of the emperor for not going to serve in the court. Feng Hui was Feng Hui's younger brother and was deeply favored by the emperor.
Feng You once served the emperor and talked calmly about the political affairs of the Wei and Jin Dynasties, so he said: I think the disputes caused by Zhong Hui are all because of Taizu.
The emperor's expression changed and he said: "What are you talking about?" Feng Shou took off his hat and apologized and said: "I foolishly talked nonsense and deserved death."
However, my hidden intentions still have something to express.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
帝曰： 何以言之 紞曰： 臣以为善御者必识六辔盈缩之势，善政者必审官方控带之宜，故仲由以兼人被抑，冉求以退弱被进，汉高八王以宠过夷灭，光武诸将由抑损克终。
非上有仁暴之殊，下有愚智之异，盖抑扬与夺使之然耳。
锺会才见有限，而太祖夸奖太过，嘉其谋猷，盛其名器，居以重势，委以大兵，故使会自谓算无遗策，功在不赏，辀张跋扈，遂构凶逆耳。
向令太祖录其小能，节以大礼，抑之以权势，纳之以轨则，则乱心无由而生，乱事无由而成矣。 帝曰： 然。
紞稽首曰： 陛下既已然微臣之言，宜思坚冰之渐，无使如会之徒复致覆丧。
帝曰： 当今岂有如会者乎？
紞曰： 东方朔有言 谈何容易 ，《易》曰： 臣不密则失身 。 帝乃屏左右曰： 卿极言之。
紞曰： 陛下谋谟之臣，著大功于天下，海内莫不闻知，据方镇总戎马之任者，皆在陛下圣虑矣。
帝默然。
translation: 
The emperor said: "On what basis do you say that?" Feng You said: "I think those who are good at driving must understand the law of the six reins, and those who are good at politics must know how to judge officials carefully. Therefore, Zhong Yu was suppressed because he was superior to others, Ran Qiu was promoted because he gave in and was weak, the eight kings of Han Gaozu were reduced because they were overly favored, and Emperor Guangwu's generals died well because of their humility."
The difference is not that the emperor is benevolent, righteous and cruel, and that his ministers are stupid and intelligent, but is caused by the giving and elimination of praise and blame.
Zhong Hui's talents and knowledge were limited, but Taizu praised him excessively, praised his strategies, bestowed upon him famous weapons, gave him great power, and gave him heavy troops. This made Zhong Hui think that his plans would not go wrong, and his achievements were too great to be rewarded. He became domineering, which led to rebellion.
If Taizu had used his talent, controlled him with rituals and laws, suppressed him with power, and incorporated him into the laws and regulations, then there would have been no reason for him to have rebellious thoughts, and there would have been no rebellion. The emperor said: That's right.
Feng Shou kowtowed and said: Since your Majesty agrees with what I said, you should remember that the ice is gradually frozen, and don't let people like Zhong Hui repeat the same path of destruction.
The emperor said: Is there anyone like Zhong Hui now?
Feng Shou said: Dongfang Shuo said, "It's easier said than done." The Book of Changes said that if ministers don't keep secrets, they will lose their lives. The emperor then dismissed the people around him and said, "Speak clearly."
Feng Shou said: Your Majesty's great adviser has made great achievements in the world. No one in the country does not know that anyone who occupies the important position of general manager of troops in a border town is under your Majesty's consideration.
The emperor was silent.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
顷之，征华为太常。
以太庙屋栋折，免官。
遂终帝之世，以列侯朝见。
惠帝即位，以华为太子少傅，与王戎、裴楷、和峤俱以德望为杨骏所忌，皆不与朝政。
及骏诛后，将废皇太后，会群臣于朝堂，议者皆承望风旨，以为《春秋》绝文姜，今太后自绝于宗庙，亦宜废黜。
惟华议以为 夫妇之道，父不能得之于子，子不能得之于父，皇太后非得罪于先帝者也。
今党其所亲，为不母于圣世，宜依汉废赵太后为孝成后故事，贬太后之号，还称武皇后，居异宫，以全贵终之恩 。
不从，遂废太后为庶人。
楚王玮受密诏杀太宰汝南王亮、太保卫瓘等，内外兵扰，朝廷大恐，计无所出。
华白帝以 玮矫诏擅害二公，将士仓卒，谓是国家意，故从之耳。
今可遣驺虞幡使外军解严，理必风靡。
translation: 
Soon, recruiting Zhang Hua became too common.
Because the beams in the Imperial Ancestral Temple were broken, he was dismissed from office.
Up to Emperor Wu's generation, they all came to court as princes.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and appointed Zhang Hua as Prince Shaofu. Wang Rong, Pei Kai, and He Qiao were all hated by Yang Jun because of their reputation, and they did not participate in government affairs.
After Yang Jun was killed, the empress dowager was about to be deposed. The ministers gathered in the court hall. Everyone who discussed it was in line with the decree. They believed that the "Spring and Autumn Annals" recorded the abandonment of Wen Jiang, and now that the empress dowager had renounced herself in the ancestral temple, she should also be deposed.
Only Zhang Hua's argument was that the father could not get it from his son, and the son could not get it from his father. The empress dowager did not offend the late emperor.
If the Queen Mother was included in Yang Jun's party, it would be disrespectful to her mother in the contemporary era of Shengming. She should follow the precedent of the Han Dynasty when she deposed the Queen Mother Zhao as Queen Xiaocheng, demoted the title of Queen Mother, and still called her Queen Wu. Living somewhere else will fulfill her life-long noble endowment.
If it is not adopted, the Queen Mother will be deposed as a commoner.
King Sima Zhang of Chu accepted a secret edict to kill Sima Liang, King of Runan, and Guan, the chief minister. The internal and external armies were in chaos, and the court was in panic and could do nothing.
Zhang Hua told the emperor: Sima Zhang forged an edict and killed the second prince without permission. In a hurry, the soldiers thought it was the will of the country and followed him.
Now we can send people to carry Yuyu banners to relieve the peripheral troops from alerting them. Logically, they will follow the wind.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
上从之，玮兵果败。
及玮诛，华以首谋有功，拜右光禄大夫、开府仪同三司、侍中、中书监，金章紫绶。
固辞开府。
贾谧与后共谋，以华庶族，儒雅有筹略，进无逼上之嫌，退为众望所依，欲倚以朝纲，访以政事。
疑而未决，以问裴頠，頠素重华，深赞其事。
华遂尽忠匡辅，弥缝补阙，虽当暗主虐后之朝，而海内晏然，华之功也。
华惧后族之盛，作《女史箴》以为讽。
贾后虽凶妒，而知敬重华。
久之，论前后忠勋，进封壮武郡公。
华十余让，中诏敦譬，乃受。
数年，代下邳王晃为司空，领著作。
及贾后谋废太子，左卫率刘卞甚为太子所信遇，每会宴，卞必预焉。
屡见贾谧骄傲，太子恨之，形于言色，谧亦不能平。
卞以贾后谋问华，华曰： 不闻。
卞曰： 卞以寒悴，自须昌小吏受公成拔，以至今日。
士感知己，是以尽言，而公更有疑于卞邪！
华曰： 假令有此，君欲如何？
translation: 
The emperor obeyed him, and Chu King Sima Zhang's rebellion failed.
When Sima Zhang was killed, Qiang Jie was awarded the title of Doctor Youguanglu, Kaifu Yitong Sansi, Shizhong, Zhongshujian, with a gold seal and purple ribbon because he was the first to make a plan.
Resolutely refuse to open the government.
Jia Mi conspired with the queen and believed that Zhang Hua was from a commoner family, elegant and strategic, and was not suspected of intimidating the emperor when he advanced, but would be favored by the public when he retreated. He planned to rely on him to govern the court and consult on political affairs.
Undecided, he went to ask Pei Yuan. Pei Yuan had always respected Zhang Hua and fully agreed with this matter.
Zhang Hua then tried his best to help and correct mistakes. Although the fatuous emperor was tyrannizing the queen, the country was stable. This was Zhang Hua's credit.
Zhang Hua was afraid that the queen's family would become powerful, so he wrote "Proverbs for Women's History" as a satire.
Although Empress Jia was fierce and jealous, she knew how to respect Chui Long.
After a period of time, people discussed Cheng Chu's outstanding achievements and made him the Duke of Zhuangwu.
Zhang Hua gave in more than ten times, and the emperor issued an edict to urge him to enlighten him, and then he accepted it.
A few years later, he replaced Sima Huang, the king of Xiapi, as Sikong and concurrently as the author.
When Empress Jia planned to depose the prince, Zuo Wei led Liu Bian, who was trusted by the prince. Liu Bian would definitely attend every gathering and banquet.
The prince resented Buying Pride when he saw him many times, and it showed in his words and expressions, and Buying was not convinced.
Liu Bian asked Zhang Ge about Empress Jia's plan, Qiang Long said, "I haven't heard of it."
Suzhuang said: Suzhuang was born in poverty. He was promoted from a small official in Xuchang to his current status.
The scholar was grateful to his confidant, so he told me everything, but the gentleman had doubts about me!
Zhang Hua said: If there is something like you said, what do you want to do?


Chunk 30: 
original: 
卞曰： 东宫俊乂如林，四率精兵万人。
公居阿衡之任，若得公命，皇太子因朝入录尚书事，废贾后于金墉城，两黄门力耳。
华曰： 今天子当阳，太子，人子也，吾又不受阿衡之命，忽相与行此，是无其君父，而以不孝示天下也。
虽能有成，犹不免罪，况权戚满朝，威柄不一，而可以安乎！
及帝会群臣于式乾殿，出太子手书，遍示群臣，莫敢有言者。
惟华谏曰； 此国之大祸。
自汉武以来，每废黜正嫡，恆至丧乱。
且国家有天下日浅，愿陛下详之。
尚书左仆射裴頠以为宜先检校传书者，又请比校太子手书，不然，恐有诈妄。
贾后乃内出太子素启事十余纸，众人比视，亦无敢言非者，议至日西不决，后知华等意坚，因表乞免为庶人，帝乃可其奏。
translation: 
Liu Bian said: The heroes of the East Palace cannot be deployed clearly, and there are ten thousand elite soldiers in the four ranks.
The Duke is in the important position of presiding over the state affairs. If he gets the order from the Duke and the crown prince enters the court and serves as the minister, after the purchase of Jinyong City is abolished, the power of the two Huangmen will be enough.
Zhang Hua said: Now that the emperor has ascended the throne, the prince is the emperor's son. I did not accept the order and suddenly participated in such a thing. I have no regard for the emperor and my father, and I show my unfilial piety to the world.
Even if they succeed, they still cannot be exempted from the crime. What's more, the dynasty is full of powerful officials and nobles, and the authority is not on one side. How can this be stable?
When the emperor gathered the ministers in Shiqian Hall and showed the prince's handwriting to the ministers, no one dared to speak.
Only Zhang Hua advised him: This is a great disaster for the country.
Since Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, every time the eldest son was deposed, it often led to chaos.
Besides, the country will only be able to control the world for a short period of time. I hope Your Majesty will treat this matter with caution.
Shangshu Zuopushi Pei Xie thought that the person who sent the letter should be checked first, and asked to compare it with the prince's handwriting. Otherwise, there might be fraud.
Empress Jia took out more than ten pieces of paper written by the prince from the palace. When everyone compared them, no one dared to say that they were wrong. After discussing the fact that the sun was heading west, the queen knew that Zhang Hua and others were resolute, so she petitioned that the prince be exempted from being a commoner. The emperor agreed to her suggestion.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
初，赵王伦为镇西将军，挠乱关中，氐羌反叛，乃以梁王肜代之。
或说华曰： 赵王贪昧，信用孙秀，所在为乱，而秀变诈，奸人之雄。
今可遣梁王斩秀，刈赵之半，以谢关右，不亦可乎！
华从之，肜许诺。
秀友人辛冉从西来，言于肜曰： 氐羌自反，非秀之为。
故得免死。
伦既还，谄事贾后，因求录尚书事，后又求尚书令。
华与裴頠皆固执不可，由是致怨，伦、秀疾华如仇。
武库火，华惧因此变作，列兵固守，然后救之，故累代之宝及汉高斩蛇剑、王莽头、孔子屐等尽焚焉。
时华见剑穿屋而飞，莫知所向。
初，华所封壮武郡有桑化为柏，识者以为不详。
又华第舍及监省数有妖怪。
少子韪以中台星坼，劝华逊位。
华不从，曰； 天道玄远，惟修德以应之耳。
translation: 
At the beginning, King Sima Lun of Zhao was appointed as the general of Zhenxi, causing chaos in Guanzhong and suppressing the rebellion, so he was replaced by Yanxi Danshu.
Someone said to Ji Jie: Tong Huo is greedy, ignorant, and trustworthy, so he creates chaos there, while Sun Xiu is cunning and changeable, and is the worst of the traitors.
Now we can send King Liang to kill Sun Xiu, cut off half of King Zhao's fiefdom, and apologize to Wei You. Isn't it also feasible?
Zhang Hua obeyed him, and Liang Wang Sima Shu also agreed.
Sun Xiu's friend Xin Ran came from the west and said to Pan Wang Sima Shu: The Di and Qiang rebelled themselves, not Sun Xiu.
Sun Xiu was saved from death.
After Sima Lun returned to the court, he treated Empress Jia flatteringly, so he asked Lv to serve as minister, and later asked for minister's order.
Both Tui Jian and Pei Xian firmly disagreed, which aroused resentment. Wang Sima Lun and Sun Xiu hated Zhang Hua as their enemies.
A fire broke out in the weapons depot. Zhang Hua was afraid that something might happen, so he lined up his soldiers to hold on. Then they put out the fire, so the treasures of the past dynasties, Mo Gaozu's snake-cutting sword, Wang Mang's head, Confucius's clogs, etc. were all burned.
At that time, Zhang Hua saw the sword piercing through the house and flying out. He didn't know where he flew to.
At first, the mulberry trees in Zhuangwu County where Zhang Long was granted the title turned into cypress trees. People who saw it thought it was unlucky.
In addition, there are many monsters in Zhang Hua's residence and government offices.
The younger son Zhang Wei persuaded Zhang Hua to resign because of the split between China and Taiwan.
Zhang Hua refused to listen and said, "The way of heaven is wonderful and far away. We should cultivate our virtues and follow it."


Chunk 32: 
original: 
不如静以待之，以俟天命。
及伦、秀将废贾后，秀使司马雅夜告华曰： 今社稷将危，赵王欲与公共匡朝廷，为霸者之事。
华知秀等必成篡夺，乃距之。
雅怒曰： 刃将加颈，而吐言如此！
不顾而出。
华方昼卧，忽梦见屋坏，觉而恶之。
是夜难作，诈称诏召华，遂与裴頠俱被收。
华将死，谓张林曰： 卿欲害忠臣耶？
林称诏诘曰： 卿为宰相，任天下事，太子之废，不能死节，何也 华曰： 式乾之议，臣谏事具存，非不谏也。
林曰： 谏若不从，何不去位？
华不能答。
须臾，使者至曰： 诏斩公。
华曰： 臣先帝老臣，中心如丹。
臣不爱死，惧王室之难，祸不可测也。
遂害之于前殿马道南，夷三族，朝野莫不悲痛之。
时年六十九。
华性好人物，诱进不倦，至于穷贱候门之士有一介之善者，便咨嗟称咏，为之延誉。
雅爱书籍，身死之日，家无余财，惟有文史溢于机箧。
translation: 
It is better to wait and wait for destiny.
When King Zhao Sima Lun and Xun Hu were about to abandon Qiu, Zu Zhong sent Sima Ya to tell Chui Jie at night: Now the country will be in danger, and King Zhao wants to work with him to save the court and do the cause of overlord.
Zhang Hua knew that Sun Hu and others would definitely usurp, so he rejected him.
Sima Ya got angry and said: The knife is about to fall on your neck, and you still talk like this!
He went out without looking back.
As soon as Zhang Hua lay down during the day, he suddenly dreamed of a house collapsing with soil. He hated this dream when he woke up.
Disaster occurred that night. Zhang Hua was summoned by false pretense of imperial edict, and both he and Pei Yan were arrested.
Before Zhang Hua died, he said to Zhang Lin: Do you want to harm loyal ministers?
Zhang Lin used the edict to defend himself and said: You are the prime minister, responsible for the great affairs of the world. When the prince was deposed, you could not die for your integrity. Why? Zhang Hua said: The discussions in Shiqian Palace and my remonstrances are all preserved. It is not that I do not give remonstrances.
Zhang Lin said: If your advice is not followed, why don't you resign?
Zhang Hua couldn't answer.
After a while, the messenger came and said: The edict orders the execution of the Duke.
Zhang Hua said: I am a veteran of the late emperor, and I am sincere.
I am not willing to die because I am afraid of disaster for the royal family. The disaster is unfathomable.
So Ma Daonan was killed in the front hall, and the three clans were reduced. Everyone inside and outside the court was grieved.
He was sixty-nine years old.
Zhang Hua was naturally fond of talents, and he worked tirelessly to induce and encourage people to advance, so that even those who came from a poor family but had certain strengths, Zhang Hua would praise them and increase their reputation.
He loved books. When he was killed, he had no extra property at home, but only books on literature and history filled his desk box.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
尝徙居，载书三十乘。
秘书监挚虞撰定官书，皆资华之本以取正焉。
天下奇秘，世所希有者，悉在华所。
由是博物洽闻，世无与比。
惠帝中，人有得鸟毛三丈，以示华。
华见，惨然曰： 此谓海凫毛也，出则天下乱矣。
陆机尝饷华鲊，于时宾客满座，华发器，便曰： 此龙肉也。
众未之信，华曰： 试以苦酒濯之，必有异。
既而五色光起。
机还问鲊主，果云： 园中茅积下得一白鱼，质状殊常，以作鲊，过美，故以相献。
武库封闭甚密，其中忽有雉雊。
华曰： 此必蛇化为雉也。
开视，雉侧果有蛇蜕焉。
吴郡临平岸崩，出一石鼓，槌之无声。
帝以问华，华曰： 可取蜀中桐材，刻为鱼形，扣之则鸣矣。
于是如其言，果声闻数里。
translation: 
I once moved house and loaded thirty carts of books.
Secretary Jian Zhiyu compiled and revised official documents, all relying on Zhang Hua's book as the original.
The secret book of the world. The rare books in the world are all in Zhang Hua's house.
As a result, his knowledge was unmatched by anyone in the world.
During the reign of Emperor Hui, someone got a bird feather three feet long and showed it to Zhang Hua.
When Zhang Hua saw it, he said with a sad expression: "This is called jellyfish hair. When it appears, the world will be in chaos."
Lu Ji once invited Zhang Hua to eat grasshoppers. When the guests were all seated, Zhang Hua moved the tableware and said, "This is dragon meat."
Everyone didn't believe it. Zhang Hua said: If you pour bitter wine on it, there will be abnormal phenomena.
After pouring wine, it glows with five colors.
Lu Ji went back and asked the grasshopper seller, and sure enough he said: "I got a white fish under the thatch in the garden. It had an abnormal shape and was used to make grasshoppers. It tasted very delicious, so I dedicated it to him."
The arsenal was tightly sealed, and a pheasant suddenly appeared on the wrapped surface.
Zhang Hua said: This must be a snake turning into a pheasant.
After opening the warehouse for inspection, there was indeed skin shed by a snake next to the pheasant.
The bank of the Linping River in Wu County cracked, and a stone drum emerged. When struck, there was no sound.
The emperor asked Zhang Hua about this, and Zhang Hua said: You can use paulownia wood from the Shu region and carve it into the shape of a fish, and the drum will sound.
I did as he said, and sure enough the sound spread for miles.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
初，吴之未灭也，斗牛之间常有紫气，道术者皆以吴方强盛，未可图也，惟华以为不然。
及吴平之后，紫气愈明。
华闻豫章人雷焕妙达纬象，乃要焕宿，屏人曰： 可共寻天文，知将来吉凶。
因登楼仰观，焕曰： 仆察之久矣，惟斗牛之间颇有异气。
华曰： 是何祥也？
焕曰： 宝剑之精，上彻于天耳。
华曰： 君言得之。
吾少时有相者言，吾年出六十，位登三事，当得宝剑佩之。
斯言岂效与！
因问曰： 在何郡？
焕曰： 在豫章丰城。
华曰： 欲屈君为宰，密共寻之，可乎？
焕许之。
华大喜，即补焕为丰城令。
焕到县，掘狱屋基，入地四丈余，得一石函，光气非常，中有双剑，并刻题，一曰龙泉，一曰太阿。
其夕，斗牛间气不复见焉。
焕以南昌西山北岩下土以拭剑，光芒艳发。
translation: 
At the beginning, before the time of the Wu Kingdom was reduced, there was always purple energy between the two constellations of Bullfight. People in Taoism thought that Wu Fang was too strong and could not plot, but Zhang Hua thought otherwise.
After Wu was pacified, the purple energy became more apparent.
Zhang Hua heard that Lei Huan, a native of Yuzhang, was good at Weishu, so he invited Lei Huan to stay with him, and said to others: "We can discuss astronomy together to know the good and bad luck in the future."
So he climbed up the stairs and looked up. Lei Huan said: I have been observing for a long time, and there are only some unusual weather conditions between the Dou and the Ox.
Zhang Hua said: What auspicious event is this?
Lei Huan said: It is the essence of the sword, reaching up to the sky.
Zhang Hua said: You are right.
Someone who met me when I was young said that when I was sixty years old and my official rank reached the level of Third Duke, I would be given a sword to wear.
Isn’t it true that what I said has come true?
So I asked: In which county?
Lei Huan said: In Fengcheng, Yuzhang.
Zhang Hua said: I plan to make you a local magistrate and we can secretly search for the sword together. Is that okay?
Lei Huan agreed.
Zhang Hua was very happy and immediately asked Lei Huan to serve as Fengcheng Order.
Lei Huan went to Fengcheng and excavated the foundation of the prison, which was more than four feet deep. He found a stone letter with an abnormal light. There were two swords wrapped in it, both of which were engraved. One was called Longquan and the other was Tai'a.
That night, the purple energy between the two dormitories no longer appeared.
Lei Huan wiped the sword with the soil from the north cliff of Xishan Mountain in Nanchang, and it glowed.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
大盆盛水，置剑其上，视之者精芒炫目。
遣使送一剑并土与华，留一自佩。
或谓焕曰： 得两送一，张公岂可欺乎？
焕曰： 本朝将乱，张公当受其祸。
此剑当系徐君墓树耳。
灵异之物，终当化去，不永为人服也。
华得剑，宝爱之，常置坐侧。
华以南昌土不如华阴赤土，报焕书曰： 详观剑文，乃干将也，莫邪何复不至？
虽然，天生神物，终当合耳。
因以华阴土一斤致焕。焕更以拭剑，倍益精明。
华诛，失剑所在。
焕卒，子华为州从事，持剑行经延平津，剑忽于腰间跃出堕水，使人没水取之，不见剑，但见两龙各长数丈，蟠萦有文章，没者惧而反。
须臾光彩照水，波浪惊沸，于是失剑。
华叹曰： 先君化去之言，张公终合之论，此其验乎！
华之博物多此类，不可详载焉。
translation: 
Fill a large basin with water and place the sword on the basin. Those who look at the sword will feel the dazzling light.
Lei Huan sent someone to give Zhang Hua a sword and soil, and kept a sword for himself.
Someone said to Lei Huan: "You have to give two for free. Can Mr. Zhang cheat?"
Lei Huan said: This dynasty will be in chaos, and Duke Zhang will suffer disaster.
This sword should be tied to the tree in front of Xu Jun's tomb.
The strange artifacts of the gods will eventually change and disappear, and will not be used forever.
Zhang Hua got the sword, cherished it, and always kept it next to his seat.
Zhang Hua believed that Nanchang soil was not as good as Huayin red soil, so he wrote to Lei Huan: Look carefully at the words on the sword. This is a general. Why doesn't Moye exist anymore?
Even so, the gods and goddesses will eventually come together.
So he gave Lei Huan a pound of Huayin soil, and Lei Huan wiped his sword with the soil, making it twice as bright.
Zhang Hua was killed and his sword was nowhere to be found.
After Lei Huan died, his son Lei Hua was appointed as an official in the state. He passed by Yanpingjin with his sword. The sword suddenly jumped out from his waist and fell into the water. He sent someone into the water to get the sword, but he didn't see the sword. He only saw two dragons, each several feet long, with twists and patterns. The divers were frightened and came back from the water.
After a while, the light shone on the water and the waves rolled, so the sword was lost.
Jia Hua sighed and said: "What my father said during his lifetime about the change disappearing, and what Zhang Gong said about the final union will come true, won't it come true?"
Most of Zhang Hua's extensive knowledge cannot be recorded in detail here.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
后伦、秀伏诛，齐王冏辅政，挚虞致笺于冏曰： 间于张华没后入中书省，得华先帝时答诏本草。
先帝问华可以辅政持重付以后事者，华答： 明德至亲，莫如先王，宜留以为社稷之镇。
其忠良之谋，款诚之言，信于幽冥，没而后彰，与苟且随时者不可同世而论也。
议者有责华以愍怀太子之事不抗节廷争。
当此之时，谏者必得违命之死。
先圣之教，死而无益者，不以责人。
故晏婴，齐之正卿，不死崔杼之难；季札，吴之宗臣，不争逆顺之理。
理尽而无所施者，固圣教之所不责也。
冏于是奏曰： 臣闻兴微继绝，圣王之高政；贬恶嘉善，《春秋》之美义。
是以武王封比干之墓，表商容之闾，诚幽明之故有以相通也。
孙秀逆乱，灭佐命之国，诛骨鲠之臣，以斫丧王室；肆其虐戾，功臣之后，多见泯灭。
张华、裴頠各以见惮取诛于时，解系、解结同以羔羊并被其害，欧阳建等无罪而死，百姓怜之。
今陛下更日月之光，布维新之命，然此等诸族未蒙恩理。
昔栾郤降在皁隶，而《春秋》传其违；幽王绝功臣之后，弃贤者子孙，而诗人以为刺。
translation: 
Later, King Sima Lun and Sun Xiu of Zhao were killed, and King Sima Gang of Qi assisted the government. Zhiyu wrote to Sima Tong, saying: I have to enter the Zhongshu Province after Zhang Hua's death and obtain the draft of Zhang Hua's response to the imperial edict when he was the late emperor.
The late emperor asked Zhang Hua who could assist the government and preside over the important tasks of entrusting the funeral affairs. Zhang Hua replied: No one can be as good as the late king in terms of moral integrity and close relatives. He should be retained as the person who stabilizes the country.
Qian Zhongliang's strategies and sincere words were promoted in the netherworld and became prominent after his death. They are not the same as those who just muddle along and drift with the crowd.
Some of the reviewers blamed Zhang Hua for not upholding the integrity to fight in the court regarding the matter of cherishing the prince.
At that time, those who disobeyed orders would surely die.
The teachings of the saints of the past generations, if there is no benefit from death, there is no need to die to ask others.
Therefore, Yan Ying, the chief minister of Qi State, did not die because of Cui Zhu's disaster; Jizha, the clan minister of Wu State, did not fight against the principles of rebellion and obedience.
If the doctrine is thoroughly explained but not implemented, then the teachings of the saints will certainly not be sought.
Sima Tong then reported: I have heard that revitalizing and continuing the national ancestral temple is a holy king's high policy; derogating evil and rewarding good deeds is a beautiful principle in the Spring and Autumn Annals.
Therefore, King Wu sealed Bigan's tomb and hung a plaque on Shang Rong's house, because the underworld and the human world can be connected.
Sun Xiu rebelled and rebelled, destroying the country he supported, killing upright ministers, and injuring the royal family. He committed tyranny and cruelty at will, and most of the descendants of the meritorious officials were exterminated.
Zhang Hua and Pei Yan were killed at that time because they could make people fearful. Xie Xie and Xie Jie were killed because of their noble moral character. Ouyang Jian and others died innocently, and the people pitied them.
Now His Majesty has reappeared the light of the moon and issued the order of reform, but those families who have been victimized have not received grace and justice.
In the past, Leyu's status was reduced to that of Zaoli, but the Spring and Autumn Annals recorded Zao as a violation of morality; King You exterminated the descendants of heroes and rejected the descendants of virtuous people, while poets regarded Zao as an object of ridicule.


Chunk 37: 
original: 
臣备忝在职，思纳愚诚。
若合圣意，可令群官通议。
议者各有所执，而多称其冤。
壮武国臣竺道又诣长沙王，求复华爵位，依违者久之。
太安二年，诏曰： 夫爱恶相攻，佞邪丑正，自古而有。
故司空、壮武公华竭其忠贞，思翼朝政，谋谟之勋，每事赖之。
前以华弼济之功，宜同封建，而华固让至于八九，深陈大制不可得尔，终有颠败危辱之虑，辞义恳诚，足劝远近。
华之至心，誓于神明。
华以伐吴之勋，受爵于先帝。
后封既非国体，又不宜以小功逾前大赏，华之见害，俱以奸逆图乱，滥被枉贼。
其复华侍中、中书监、司空、公、广武侯及所没财物与印绶符策，遣使吊祭之。
初，陆机兄弟志气高爽，自以吴之名家，初入洛，不推中国人士，见华一面如旧，钦华德范，如师资之礼焉。
华诛后，作诔，又为《咏德赋》以悼之。
华著《博物志》十篇，及文章并行于世。
二子：祎、韪。
祎字彦仲，好学，谦敬有父风，历位散骑常侍。
韪儒博，晓天文，散骑侍郎。
translation: 
I filled up my position and wanted to offer my stupid sincerity.
If it is in line with the Holy Spirit's will, the ministers can discuss it together.
Everyone who discussed the matter had their own opinions, and most people believed that Zhang Hua and others were unjustly accused.
Zhudao, a minister of Zhuangwu State, went to see the King of Changsha again and asked for the restoration of Zhang Hua's title. However, the matter was stopped due to objections.
In the second year of Tai'an, the edict said: Likes and dislikes attack each other, and evil and jealousy harm the upright. This has existed since ancient times.
The late Sikong and Zhuangwu Gong Zhang Hua devoted themselves to his loyalty, considered assisting the government, had meritorious deeds and made suggestions, and often relied on him.
In the past, because of Zhang Hua and Sasuke's merits, Zhang Hua should be granted a land seal, but Zhang Hua resolutely refused to do so as many as eight or nine times. He stated in depth the reasons why he could not accept it. He was always worried about failure, danger, and humiliation. His words were sincere and sincere enough to persuade people near and far.
Zhang Hua's sincerity can make him swear an oath before the gods.
Zhang Gan was awarded a title by the late emperor for his meritorious service in conquering Chengyu.
Future rewards are not in line with the national system, and they should not exceed previous large rewards because of small merits. Zhang Hua's murder was all because of the treacherous ministers and traitors who attempted to cause chaos and were unjustly killed.
Restore Zhang Hua's Shizhong, Zhongshu Jian, Sikong, Gong, Guangwuhou and the confiscated property and seals and ribbons, and send envoys to pay tribute.
At the beginning, the Lu Ji brothers had high ambitions and considered themselves to be famous figures in Wu. They had just entered the banditry and did not respect people from the Central Plains.
After Zhang Hua was killed, he wrote admonitions and "Ode to Virtues" to commemorate him.
Zhang Hua wrote ten articles in "Natural History", which together with other articles are popular in the world.
He has two sons: Zhang Yi and Zhang Wei.
Zhang Yi, whose courtesy name is Yanzhong, is studious, humble and respectful, like his father. He has served as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
He retreated to the wall, was elegant and learned, and understood astronomy. He was appointed as the minister of Sanqi.


Chunk 38: 
original: 
同时遇害。
祎子舆，字公安，袭华爵。
避难过江，辟丞相掾、太子舍人。
刘卞，字叔龙，东平须昌人也。
本兵家子，质直少言。
少为县小吏，功曹夜醉如厕，使卞执烛，不从，功曹衔之，以他事补亭子。
有祖秀才者，于亭中与刺史笺，久不成，卞教之数言，卓荦有大致。
秀才谓县令曰： 卞，公府掾之精者，卿云何以为亭子？
令即召为门下史，百事疏简，不能周密。
令问卞： 能学不？
答曰： 愿之。
即使就学。
无几，卞兄为太子长兵，即死，兵例须代，功曹请以卞代兄役。
令曰： 祖秀才有言。
遂不听。
卞后从令至洛，得入太学，试《经》为台四品吏。
translation: 
Killed at the same time.
Zhang Yi's son Zhang Yu, named Gong'an, inherited Zhang Yi's title.
He took refuge across the river and gave up his life for the prime minister and the prince.
Liu Bian, whose courtesy name was Shulong, was from Xuchang, Dongping.
He is a son of a soldier. He is upright by nature and doesn't like to talk too much.
Gong Cao, a minor official who worked for the county when he was young, went to the toilet drunk at night and asked Liu Bian to hold a candle. Liu Bian refused to obey. Gong Cao resented him and asked him to repair the pavilion through other things.
There was a man named Dan He who was writing a letter to the governor in the pavilion. He couldn't write it for a long time. Liu Bian taught him a few words and he became outstanding.
The scholar said to the county magistrate: "The master is a capable person among the officials of the government. How can you let him build the pavilion?"
The county magistrate called him as his subordinate historian, and he was careless in handling all kinds of affairs.
The county magistrate asked Liu Bian: "Can you study?"
Answer: I am willing to learn.
Just let him study.
Not long after, Liu Tu's elder brother was appointed as the prince's commander of the army. After his death, according to military regulations, someone had to replace him, so the meritorious officer requested that Liu Bian serve in his brother's stead.
The county magistrate said: "The great ancestor has something to say."
So he didn't listen.
Liu Bian later followed the county magistrate to steal houses, and was able to enter the Imperial Academy. After passing the "Jing" examination, he was appointed as a fourth-rank official in Taiwan.


Chunk 39: 
original: 
访问令写黄纸一鹿车，卞曰： 刘卞非为人写黄纸者也。
访问知怒，言于中正，退为尚书令吏。
或谓卞曰： 君才简略，堪大不堪小，不如作守舍人。
卞从其言。
后为吏部令史，迁齐王攸司空主簿，转太常丞、司徒左西曹掾、尚书郎，所历皆称职。
累迁散骑侍郎，除并州刺史，入为左卫率，知贾后废太子之谋，甚忧之。
以计干张华而不见用，益以不平。
贾后亲党微服听察外间，颇闻卞言，乃迁卞为轻车将军、雍州刺史，卞知言泄，恐为贾后所诛，乃饮药卒。
初，卞之并州，昔同时为须昌小吏者十余人祖饯之，其一人轻卞，卞遣扶出之，人以此少之。
史臣曰：夫忠为令德，学乃国华，譬众星之有礼义，人伦之有冠冕也。
卫瓘抚武帝之床，张华距赵伦之命，进谏则伯玉居多，临危则茂先为美。
translation: 
During the interview, he was asked to write a piece of yellow paper. Liu Bian said: Liu Bian is not someone who writes yellow paper for others.
When he found out about it, he became angry and told Zhongzheng that he should be demoted to the rank of Shangshu Lingshi.
Someone said to Liu Bian: Your talent is simple and suitable for big tasks but not for small tasks. It is better to be a housekeeper.
Liu Bian obeyed Ya's words.
Later, he was appointed as the official history of the Ministry of Personnel, and was changed to the chief secretary of Sikong, King Sima You of Qi. He was transferred to Taichang Cheng, Situ Zuoxi, Cao Tu, and Shangshu Lang. They were all competent in their positions.
Gradually he was promoted to Minister of Sanqi and governor of Bingzhou. When he entered the court and was appointed as the left guard, he was very worried when he learned about Empress Jia's plot to depose the crown prince.
It would be even more unfair to propose a plan for Zhang Hua but not be adopted.
After the purchase, his cronies secretly monitored the outside world and heard about Liu Bian's remarks, so he appointed Liu Bian as General Qingche and governor of Yongzhou. Liu Bian knew that his words were leaked and was afraid that he would be killed by Empress Jia, so he drank the medicine and died.
When Liu Bian went to Bingzhou, more than ten people who used to be minor officials in Xuchang went to see him farewell. One of them despised Liu Bian, so Liu Bian sent someone to help him out of the house, so people despised Liu Bian.
Shi Chen said: Loyalty is a virtue, talent and learning are the essence of a country, just like the stars have etiquette and righteousness, and human relations have a crown.
Wei Guan caressed Emperor Wu's bed, Zhang Hua resisted the orders of King Zhao Sima Lun, and if he remonstrated, Boyu would have more. If he was not afraid in the face of danger, Mao would do well first.


Chunk 40: 
original: 
遵乎险辙，理有可言：昏乱方凝，则事睽其趣；松筠无改，则死胜于生，固以赴蹈为期，而不辞乎倾覆者也。
俱陷淫网，同嗟承剑，邦家殄瘁，不亦伤哉！
赞曰：贤人委质，道映陵寒。
尸禄观败，吾生未安。
卫以贾灭，张由赵残。
忠于乱世，自古为难。
translation: 
On the dangerous road, there is this truth: when confusion forms, it depends on the development trend of things; if you are stubborn and do not change, death is better than life. If you persist in going through fire and water, you will not avoid subversives.
Isn't it sad that they all fell into adultery, were killed together, and the country was in danger?
Praise: A wise man dedicated his life, and the cold air from the mausoleum reflected on the road.
I feel uneasy if I wait and see the failure of those who receive salary in vain.
Jie was exterminated because of Xia, and Qiang was massacred because of Zhao.
Loyalty in troubled times has been difficult since ancient times.


