Chunk 0: 
original: 
明年，上将大夸胡人以多禽兽，秋，命右扶风发民入南山，西自褒斜，东至弘农，南驱汉中，张罗罔罴罘，捕熊罴、豪猪、虎豹、狖玃、狐菟、麋鹿，载以槛车，输长杨射熊馆。
以罔为周阹，纵禽兽其中，令胡人手搏之，自取其获，上亲临观焉。
是时，农民不得收敛。
雄从至射熊馆，还，上《长杨赋》，聊因笔墨之成文章，故借翰林以为主人，子墨为客卿以风。
其辞曰：
子墨客卿问于翰林主人曰： 盖闻圣主之养民也，仁沾而恩洽，动不为身。
今年猎长杨，先命右扶风，左太华而右褒斜，椓嶻而为弋，纡南山以为罝，罗千乘于林莽，列万骑于山隅，帅军踤阹，锡戎获胡。
扼熊罴，拖豪猪，木雍枪累，以为储胥，此天下之穷览极观也。
虽然，亦颇扰于农民。
三旬有余，其廑至矣，而功不图，恐不识者，外之则以为娱乐之游，内之则不以为干豆之事，岂为民乎哉！
且人君以玄默为神，淡泊为德，今乐远出以露威灵，数摇动以罢车甲，本非人主之急务也，蒙窃或焉。
翰林主人曰： 吁，谓之兹邪！
若客，所谓知其一未睹其二，见其外不识其内者也。仆尝倦谈，不能一二其详，请略举凡，而客自览其切焉。 客曰： 唯，唯。
主人曰： 昔有强秦，封豕其士，窫窳其民，凿齿之徒相与摩牙而争之，豪俊麋沸云扰，群黎为之不康。
于是上帝眷顾高祖，高祖奉命，顺斗极，运天关，横巨海，票昆仑，提剑而叱之，所麾城摲邑，下将降旗，一日之战，不可殚记。
当此之勤，头蓬不暇疏，饥不及餐，鞮鍪生虮虱，介胄被沾汗，以为万姓请命乎皇天。
乃展民之所诎，振民之所乏，规亿载，恢帝业，七年之间而天下密如也。
translation: 
The next year, the emperor wanted to boast to the barbarians about the abundance of animals. In autumn, he ordered You Fufeng to recruit the people into Nanshan, starting from Baoxie in the west, Hongnong in the east, and Hanzhong in the south. He opened nets and set traps to catch bears, porcupines, tigers, leopards, and even foxes, dodders, and elk. They were loaded on carts and transported to the Changyang Shooting Bear Pavilion.
They used nets as a siege, wrapped the animals in dough, and taught the barbarians to fight with their bare hands. They took away the ones they caught, and the emperor went to watch them in person.
At this time, farmers cannot harvest crops.
Yang Xiong followed him to Shexiong Pavilion, and when he came back, he presented "Ode to Chang Yang". Since it was written in pen and ink, he used Hanlin as his host and Zimo as his guest to satirize him.
The words said:
Zimo Keqing asked the master of Hanlin: I heard that the Holy Lord nourishes the people, is benevolent and nourishing, and does not act for himself.
This year when hunting in Changyang, we first ordered the right to Fufeng, the left to Taihua and the right to Baoxie, cut down the banks for cruising, and arranged them around Nanshan. Thousands of horses were arranged in the forest, and tens of thousands of cavalry were distributed at the foot of the mountain. They led the troops to the paddocks and rewarded Rong, Di, and animals.
Catching bears, catching porcupines, and piling up wooden guns as savings is something you only see in the world.
Even so, it is very harassing to the farmers.
More than thirty years old, very hardworking, but unable to achieve anything. I am afraid that people who don’t know better will think of it as an entertainment trip outside, but not as a dried bean sacrifice inside. Isn’t it for the people?
Moreover, the monarch regards silence as his spiritual thought and indifference as his moral character. Now he likes to go far away to show his power. He has mobilized many armies and exhausted his chariots and soldiers. This is not something that the monarch needs to do urgently. I am privately puzzled.
The master of Hanlin said: Hey, that’s really weird!
Like you, you only know one but not the other. You see the outside but don’t know the inside. I'm too tired to talk about it in detail. Please allow me to give you a rough outline. You can decide for yourself what's necessary. The guest said: OK, OK.
The master said: In the past, there was a strong Qin Dynasty, which killed the scholars and the people like Feng Bo and Mo Nu. The chisel-toothed people grinded their teeth and fought with each other. The heroes were like elk boiling and the clouds were turbulent, so the people were restless.
So God favored the great ancestor, and he was ordered to follow the dipper, move the Tianguan, cross the sea, shake Kunlun, raise his sword and shout angrily, attack the city and seize the town, and defeat the generals. One day's battle cannot be fully remembered.
After working so hard, his hair was messy and he had no time to comb it. He was hungry and had no time to eat. Qian Sun was infested with lice and his armor was covered with sweat. He came to ask the emperor for orders for Wan Xing.
So he extended the people's subjugation, raised what the people lacked, planned for ten thousand years, restored the emperor's business, and made the world peaceful in seven years.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
逮至圣文，随风乘流，方垂意于至宁，躬服节俭，绨衣不敝，革鞜不穿，大夏不居，木器无文。于是后宫贱玳瑁而疏珠玑，却翡翠之饰，除雕瑑之巧，恶丽靡而不近，斥芬芳而不御，抑止丝竹晏衍之乐，憎闻郑、卫幼眇之声，是以玉衡正而太阶平也。
其后熏鬻作虐，东夷横畔，羌戎睚眦，闽越相乱，遐萌为之不安，中国蒙被其难。
于是圣武勃怒，爰整其旅，乃命票、卫，汾沄沸渭，云合电发，飙腾波流，机骇蜂轶，疾如奔星，击如震霆，砰轒辒，破穹庐，脑沙幕，髓余吾。
遂猎乎王廷。
驱橐它，烧蠡，分梨单于，磔裂属国，夷坑谷，拔卤莽，刊山石，蹂尸舆厮，系累老弱，兖鋋瘢耆、金镞淫夷者数十万人，皆稽颡树颔，扶服蛾伏，二十余年矣，尚不敢惕息。
夫天兵四临，幽都先加，回戈邪指，南越相夷，靡节西征，羌僰东驰。
是以遐方疏俗殊邻绝党之域，自上仁所不化，茂德所不绥，莫不跷足抗手，请献厥珍，使海内淡然，永亡边城之灾，金革之患。
今朝廷纯仁，遵道显义，并包书林，圣风云靡；英华沉浮，洋溢八区，普天所覆，莫不沾濡；士有不谈王道者则樵夫笑之。
故意者以为事罔隆而不杀，物靡盛而不亏，故平不肆险，安不忘危。乃时以有年出兵，整舆竦戎，振师五莋，习马长杨，简力狡兽，校武票禽。
乃萃然登南山，瞰乌弋，西厌月出骨，东震日域。
又恐后世迷于一时之事，常以此取国家之大务，淫荒田猎，陵夷而不御也，是以车不安轫，日未靡旃，从者仿佛，骫属而还；亦所以奉太宗之烈，遵文、武之度，复三王之田，反五帝之虞；使农不辍耰，工不下机，婚姻以时，男女莫违；出恺弟，行简易，矜劬劳，休力役；见百年，存孤弱，帅与之，同苦乐。
然后陈钟鼓之乐，鸣鞀磬之和，建碣磍之虡，拮隔鸣球，掉八列之舞；酌允铄，肴乐胥，听庙中之雍雍，受神人之福祜；歌投颂，吹合雅。
其勤苦此，故真神之所劳也。
方将俟元符，以禅梁甫之基，增泰山之高，延光于将来，比荣乎往号，岂徒欲淫览浮观，驰聘粳稻之地，周流梨栗之林，蹂践刍荛，夸诩众庶，盛狖玃之收，多麋鹿之获哉！
且盲不见咫尺，而离娄烛千里之隅；客徒爱胡人之获我禽兽，曾不知我亦已获其王侯。
言未卒，墨客降席再拜稽首曰： 大哉体乎！
允非小子之所能及也。乃今日发矇，廓然已昭矣！
translation: 
When Emperor Shengwen arrived, he followed the wind and waves, so he focused on Daning. He was frugal in person, as long as his silk clothes were not torn, and his leather shoes were not see-through. He did not live in high buildings and did not carve wooden utensils. Therefore, the harem did not like tortoiseshell pearls, did not wear jade, did not make clever carvings, hated to stay away from luxury and luxury, did not use fragrant things, banned the music of silk and bamboo banquets, and did not like to listen to Zheng Wei's profound music.
Later, Xunhuan invaded, Dongyi rebelled, Qiang and Rong turned against each other, and Fujian and Vietnam interfered with each other. As a result, distant people were uneasy and the Central Plains suffered disasters.
So Shengwu was furious, rectified the division and brigade, ordered the hussars and Wei Qing, and attacked with all their strength, like lightning and clouds gathering, wind and clouds surging, like crossbows and flying bees, as fast as meteors, and striking like thunder, attacking the frame rollers, smashing the felt tents, smearing the sand curtain in the head, and entering Yuwu in the marrow.
So he went hunting in the royal court.
Driving camels, burning weeds, separating chanyus, dividing vassal states, leveling pits and valleys, clearing out grass, cutting mountains and rocks, trampling corpses to collect prisoners, tying up the old and weak, hitting horses in arrow boats, and injuring hundreds of thousands of people with golden arrowheads.
When the heavenly troops approached, they first arrived at Youdu, and they deployed their weapons and pointed their weapons at one another. South Vietnam was pacified, and then they marched westward and the Qiang meandered eastward.
Therefore, far away places that are isolated from customs have not been able to be benevolent since ancient times and are not satisfied with virtue. They have always raised their hands and asked for treasures to contribute to peace in the sea and never have the disaster of border wars.
Now the imperial court is pure and benevolent, abides by the Tao and attaches great importance to righteousness, is compatible with all learning, and has great holy virtues; its splendor spreads all over the world, moistening everything in the world; if there is a scholar who does not talk about the royal way, the woodcutter will laugh at him.
Therefore, some people believe that nothing can prosper without declining, so peace does not forget the danger. He often sent out troops in good years to reorganize his chariots and soldiers, and sent out troops to train horses in Changyang, wrestling with fierce beasts, and competing with light birds.
Then the group climbed up the Nanshan Mountain and looked at Wu Yi in the distance, Yue Kiln leaning towards the west, and the Sun Territory shaking in the east.
I am also afraid that future generations will be obsessed with temporary pleasures, often replacing national affairs with these, and debauching in fields and hunting, which will continue. Therefore, the carriage is not stable, and the sun has not moved, and the followers have never seen the real thing, so they meander back; they are also used to continue Taizong's legacy and comply with the civil and military system. Restoring the hunting fields of the three kings and returning them to the entertainment of the five emperors; making farmers keep plowing, workers not getting off their machines, getting married on time, and men and women not being confused; going out peacefully, moving easily, rewarding hard work, and avoiding corvee; visiting the elderly, caring for the orphans and weak, and sharing the joys and sorrows with them.
Then set up the music of bells and drums, play the harmony of the Shuo chime, set up the bravery, beat the jade chime, and make eight rows of dances; drink Xinyi, dine with ceremonial music, listen to the sound of Yong Yong in the temple, and receive the blessings of the gods;
You are so hardworking, so God encourages you.
We have to wait for Fu Rui to come to the base of Liangfu Mountain to add to the majesty of Mount Tai. It will be more glorious than the past and continue in the future. Is it just a wanton tour, galloping in the japonica rice fields, wandering around the pear and chestnut forests, trampling on the grass and trees, showing off to everyone, and harvesting more deer and elk!
Moreover, blind people cannot see things close at hand, but Li Lou can see corners thousands of miles away. You only regret that the Hu people got our beasts, and you don't know that we have got their princes.
Before he finished speaking, Mo Jie left the table and paid homage to Jishou twice and said: "You know the general picture!"
It's really not something I can compare to. Inspire Chaos today and it has become very clear!


Chunk 2: 
original: 
哀帝时，丁、傅、董贤用事，诸附离之者或起家至二千石。
时，雄方草《太玄》，有以自守，泊如也。
或嘲雄以玄尚白，而雄解之，号曰《解嘲》。
其辞曰：
客嘲扬子曰： 吾闻上世之士，人纲人纪，不生则已，生则上尊人君，下荣父母。析人之圭，儋人之爵，怀人之符，分人之禄，纡青拖紫，朱丹其毂。
今子幸得遭明盛之世，处不讳之朝，与群贤同行，历金门上玉堂有日矣，曾不能画一奇，出一策，上说人主，下谈公卿。
目如耀星，舌如电光，一从一衡，论者莫当，顾而作《太玄》五千文，支叶扶疏，独说十余万言，深者入黄泉，高者出苍天，大者含元气，纤者入无伦，然而位不过侍郎，擢才给事黄门。
意者玄得毋尚白乎？
何为官之拓落也？
扬子笑而应之曰： 客徒欲朱丹吾毂，不知一跌将赤吾之族也！
往者周罔解结，群鹿争逸，离为十二，合为六七，四分五剖，并为战国。
士无常君，国亡定臣，得士者富，失士者贫，矫翼厉翮，恣意所存，战士或自盛以橐，或凿坏以遁。
是故驺衍以颉亢而取世资，孟轲虽连蹇，犹为万乘师。
今大汉左东海，右渠搜，前番禺，后陶涂。
东南一尉，西北一候。
徽以纠墨，制以质铁，散以礼乐，风以《诗》、《书》，旷以岁月，结以倚庐。
天下之士，雷动云合，鱼鳞杂袭，咸营于八区，家家自以为稷、契，人人自以为咎繇，戴縰垂缨而谈者皆拟于阿衡，五尺童子羞比晏婴与夷吾，当涂者入青云，失路者委沟渠，旦握权则为卿相，夕失势则为匹夫；譬若江湖之雀，勃解之鸟，乘雁集不为之多，双凫飞不为之少。
昔三仁去而殷虚，二老归而周炽，子胥死而吴亡，种、蠡存而粤伯，五羖入而秦喜，乐毅出而燕惧，范睢以折摺而危穰侯，蔡泽虽噤吟而笑唐举。
故当其有事也，非萧、曹、子房、平、勃、樊、霍则不能安；当其亡事也，章句之徒相与坐而守之，亦亡所患。
故世乱，则圣哲驰骛而不足；世治，则庸夫高枕而有余。
夫上世之士，或解缚而相，或释褐而傅；或倚夷门而笑，或横江潭而渔；或七十说而不遇，或立谈间而封侯；或枉千乘于陋巷，或拥帚彗而先驱。
是以士颇得信其舌而奋其笔，窒隙蹈瑕而无所诎也。
当今县令不请士，郡守不迎师，群卿不揖客，将相不俯眉；言奇者见疑，行殊者得辟，是以欲谈者宛舌而固声，欲行者拟足而投迹。
乡使上世之士处乎今，策非甲科，行非孝廉，举非方正，独可抗疏，时道是非，高得待诏，下触闻罢，又安得青紫？
translation: 
During the reign of Emperor Ai, Ding, Fu, and Dong Xian were in power, and some of their vassals were appointed officials up to two thousand shi.
At that time, Di was drafting "Tai Xuan" to keep himself indifferent.
Some people mocked the slut for using black and advocating white. La gave an explanation for this, which was called "Explanation of Mockery".
The words said:
The guest laughed at Yangzi and said: I heard that the scholars of the past world were guided by the following principles: before they were born, they would respect the king upwards, honor their parents below, distinguish people's honors, receive other people's titles, own other people's talismans, receive other people's salaries, wear blue and purple ribbons, and ride in the car of Zhu Dan.
Now you are lucky enough to meet the Ming Dynasty, to be in the court where you don't have to worry about, and to be among the wise men. It has been a long time since you passed through the Golden Gate and went to the Jade Hall.
His eyes are like stars, his tongue is like lightning, he moves vertically and horizontally, no one can resist the debating, but he wrote "Tai Xuan" with five thousand words, spread out among the branches and leaves, and only explained more than one hundred thousand words. The depth is as deep as the underworld, the height is as high as the sky, the big one contains the vitality, and the fine one is incomparable. However, he cannot be ranked as a minister, and he has only been promoted to serve in the Huangmen.
Did you expect that Xuan can't be used to worship the color white?
Why is being an official so reclusive?
Yangzi smiled and replied: You just want my chariot and horses to be gorgeous, but you don't know that one mistake will make my family bleed!
In the past, the Zhou Dynasty was weakened and the feudal princes were in dispute. They were divided into twelve, which were combined into six or seven. They were divided into four parts and became the Warring States Period.
Scholars do not have a permanent monarch, and the country does not have fixed ministers. When they gain wealth from scholars, they become poor when they lose them. They fly with their wings and rest wherever they want. Therefore, some scholars use bags to pack themselves, and some cut through walls to escape.
Therefore, Kuiyan gained fame due to his uncertainty, and Meng Ke was still a master of ten thousand chariots despite encountering difficulties.
Now the Han Dynasty has the East China Sea on its left, Qusou on its right, Panyu in front, and Taotu in the back.
There is a lieutenant in the southeast and a lieutenant in the northwest.
The guilty were tied to Hui Mo, and the more serious ones were beheaded with a sword, the rituals and music were distributed, the "Poems" and "Books" were taught, and the schools were built, which lasted for a long time.
The scholars in the world all move like thunder, gather like clouds, and overlap like fish scales. They are all operating in all directions. Every family thinks they have a bond with Ji, and everyone thinks they are guilty. Those who wear tassels on their heads and talk about themselves are compared to Aheng, and a five-foot boy is ashamed. Compared with Yan Yingyiwu, those who have a smooth journey are as high as the blue clouds, and those who have nowhere to go are abandoned in ditches. In the morning, they are ministers, and in the evening, they are ordinary men. They are like small sparrows in rivers and lakes, and small birds in Bojie. The gathering of four wild geese is not too many, and the flying of two ducks is not too few.
In the past, Yin was weak after the three benevolent men left, and the two old men returned to the Zhou Dynasty and became strong. Zixu died and the Wu subjugated the country.
Therefore, when the world is in turmoil, it will not be stable unless it is Xiao, Cao, Zifang, Ping, Bo, Fan, and Huo; when the world is stable, there is nothing to be afraid of if the Confucian scholars of Zhang, Ju and Xiao sit together to guard.
Therefore, when the world is in turmoil, it is not enough for the sages to drive; when the world is stable, it is enough for the mediocre to rest easy.
Scholars of the past generations, some were untied to make appearances, some took off their brown clothes, some leaned on their clothes to laugh, some crossed the rivers and lakes to fish; some lobbied for seventy times but were not used, some were made marquises while standing and talking; some let the king of thousands of chariots come to the back alley, and some made the king hold a broom as a guide.
Therefore, scholars are very good at sticking out their tongues and picking up their pens, and there is no limit to how they can squeeze into gaps.
Nowadays, county magistrates do not invite scholars, county guards do not welcome teachers, ministers do not treat guests politely, and generals do not lower their eyebrows. Those who talk about strange things are suspected, and those who behave strangely are punished. Therefore, those who want to talk are silent, and those who want to go are hesitant.
If the scholars of the previous generations were to be in today's situation, if their strategy was not to be disciplined, their behavior was not to be filial and honest, their behavior was not to be upright, they could only be sparse, they often commented on right and wrong, if the good ones waited for Shao Shu, if the bad ones were reported, they were dismissed, how could they be covered with bruises?


Chunk 3: 
original: 
且吾闻之，炎炎者灭，隆隆者绝；观雷观火，为盈为实，天收其声，地藏其热。
高明之家，鬼瞰其室。
攫挐者亡，默默者存；位极者宗危，自守者身全。是故知玄知默，守道之极；爰清爰静，游神之廷；惟寂惟莫，守德之宅。
世异事变，人道不殊，彼我易时，未知何如。
今子乃以鸱枭而笑凤皇，执蝘蜓而嘲龟龙，不亦病乎！
子徒笑我玄之尚白，吾亦笑子之病甚，不遭臾跗、扁鹊，悲夫！
客曰： 然则靡《玄》无所成名乎？
范、蔡以下何必《玄》哉？
扬子曰： 范雎，魏之亡命也，折胁拉髂，免于微索，翕肩蹈背，扶服入橐，激卬万乘之主，界泾阳抵穰侯而代之，当也。
蔡泽，山东之匹夫也，顉颐折頞，涕涶流沫，西揖强秦之相，扼其咽，炕其气，附其背而夺其位，时也。
天下已定，金革已平，都于雒阳，娄敬委辂脱挽，掉三寸之舌，建不拔之策，举中国徙之长安，适也。
五帝垂典，三王传礼，百世不易，叔孙通起于枹鼓之间，解甲投戈，遂作君臣之仪，得也。
《甫刑》靡敝，秦法酷烈，圣汉权制，而萧何造律，宜也。
故有造萧何律于唐、虞之世，则悖矣；有作叔孙通仪于夏、殷之时，则惑矣；有建娄敬之策于成周之世，则缪矣；有谈范、蔡之说于金、张、许、史之间，则狂矣。
夫萧规曹随，留侯画策，陈平出奇，功若泰山，向若阺隤，唯其人之赡知哉，亦会其时之可为也。
故为可为于可为之时，则从；为不可为于不可为之时，则凶。
夫蔺先生收功于章台，四皓采荣于南山，公孙创业于金马，票骑发迹于祁连，司马长卿窃訾于卓氏，东方朔割炙于细君。
仆诚不能与此数公者并，故默然独守吾《太玄》。
translation: 
And I heard that the blazing fire will eventually be extinguished, and the roar of thunder will eventually disappear; looking at the thunder and looking at the fire, I think it is full, the sky collects its sound, and the earth hides its heat.
Tall and bright home, ghost peeks into his house.
Those who struggle for power will perish and survive in obscurity; their ancestors in high positions are in danger, and they are self-protective to protect their bodies. Therefore, knowing Xuanmo is the pinnacle of observing the Tao; being able to be quiet and visiting the divine palace; being lonely and indifferent is the home of observing virtue.
Things change, but human nature remains unchanged. I don’t know what will happen if we change times.
Now you use the owl to laugh at the phoenix, and you use the roundworm to laugh at the turtle and dragon. Isn't it wrong?
You laugh in vain at me for using Xuan to advocate whiteness. I also laugh at you for being very ill, but you can't touch Chu Ta or Bian Que. How sad!
The guest said: So can you not become famous without "Xuan"?
Why do we need to use "Xuan" below stems and bases?
Yangzi said: Fan Ju, the outlaw of Wei, broke his ribs and pulled his bones to avoid imprisonment. He put his shoulders and backs on his back and was helped into a bag. He impressed the king of ten thousand chariots with his intelligence. He alienated Jingyang and resisted the marquis Zhou to replace him. It was the right time.
Cai Ze, a commoner in Shandong, with his nose broken and tears streaming down his face, bowed to the west and worshiped the prime minister of Qin, strangled his throat, cut off his breath, clung to his back and seized his position. It was the right time.
The world has been pacified, weapons have been put away, and Luoyang has been established as the capital. Lou Jing abandoned the jurisdiction and released it. He turned his tongue and suggested a firm strategy. It was appropriate to move from the Central Plains to Chang'an.
The five emperors passed down the scriptures and the three kings passed down the rituals, which remained unchanged for a hundred generations. Shusun Tong started his career among the robes and drums.
"Fu Xing" was scattered, the Qin law was harsh, the Holy Han Dynasty restructured it, and Xiao He established the law, which was appropriate.
Therefore, if someone formulates the law of Xiao He in the Tang and Yu Dynasties, it will be unreasonable; if someone makes the Shusun Tongyi Law in the Xia and Yin Dynasties, it will be confusing; if someone proposes Lou Jing's strategy in the Chengzhou Dynasty, it will be wrong; if anyone talks about Fan and Cai's theories between Jin, Zhang, Xu, and Shi, it will be crazy.
Xiao rules and Cao follows, Liu Hou plots, Chen Ping makes clever plans, their skills are as good as Mount Tai, and their sound is like a landslide. Are those people so wise? It’s also about what they can do when they meet.
Therefore, if you do what you can do when you can do it, you will get your wish; if you do what you can't do when you can't do it, it will be unlucky.
Mr. Lin made meritorious service in Zhangtai, Sihao got his name in Nanshan, Gongsun started his business in Jinma, Xiuqi made his fortune in Qilian, Sima Changqing provoked the Zhuo family and made a huge sum of money, Dongfang Shuo cut the flesh of Mr. Bao and moved the emperor.
I really can't talk to these people, so I keep my "Tai Xuan" silently.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
雄以为赋者，将以风之也，必推类而言，极丽靡之辞，闳侈巨衍，竞于使人不能加也，既乃归之于正，然览者已过矣。
往时武帝好神仙，相如上《大人赋》，欲以风，帝反缥缥有陵云之志。
由是言之，赋劝而不止，明矣。
又颇似俳优淳于髡、优孟之徒，非法度所存，贤人君子诗赋之正也，于是辍不复为。
而大潭思浑天，参摹而四分之，极于八十一。
旁则三摹九据，极之七百二十九赞，亦自然之道也。
故观《易》者，见其卦而名之；观《玄》者，数其画而定之。
《玄》首四重者，非卦也，数也。
其用自天元推一昼一夜阴阳数度律历之纪，九九大运，与天终始。
故《玄》三方、九州、二十七部、八十一家、二百四十三表、七百二十九赞，分为三卷，曰一二三，与《泰初历》相庆，亦有颛顼之历焉。
扌筮之以三策，关之以休咎，絣之以象类，播之以人事，文之以五行，拟之以道德仁义礼知。无主无名，要合《五经》，苟非其事，文不虚生。
为其泰曼漶而不可知，故有《首》、《冲》、《错》、《测》、《摛》、《莹》、《数》、《文》、《掜》、《图》、《告》十一篇，皆以解剥《玄》体，离散其文，章句尚不存焉。
《玄》文多，故不著，观之者难知，学之者难成。
客有难《玄》大深，众人之不好也，雄解之，号曰《解难》。
其辞曰：
客难扬子曰： 凡著书者，为众人之所好也，美味期乎合口，工声调于比耳。
今吾子乃抗辞幽说，闳意眇指，独驰聘于有亡之际，而陶冶大炉，旁薄群生，历览者兹年矣，而殊不寤。
亶费精神于此，而烦学者于彼，譬画者画于无形，弦者放于无声，殆不可乎？ 扬子曰： 俞。
若夫闳言崇议，幽微之涂，盖难与览者同也。
translation: 
Yang Xiong believes that Fu is used to satirize and admonish. If we must promote the discussion and use gorgeous rhetoric, the magnificence and extravagance will be endless, making people unable to add more, and then return to the right path, but the people who read it have already turned over it.
In the past, Emperor Wu liked immortals, so Xiangru presented "Adult Fu" as a satirical admonishment. After reading it, the emperor had wandering thoughts.
From this point of view, it is very clear that Fu advises but does not stop.
It is also very similar to the haiyu Chun Yu Meng and his like. They are not where the law is. The poems and poems of wise men and gentlemen are correct, so they stop composing poems.
Then he thought deeply about the celestial phenomena and divided them into four parts, finally reaching eighty-one.
Three copies and nine records next to it, and finally seven hundred and twenty-nine likes, which is also the natural way.
Therefore, those who read "Yi" can call it famous when they see a hexagram; those who read "Xuan" can be sure by counting its paintings.
The four layers at the beginning of "Xuan" are not hexagrams, but numbers.
Usage: From the Tianyuan, the yin and yang of a day and a night are counted in the calendar, and the nine-nine great fortunes are in harmony with the sky.
Therefore, "Xuan" has three directions, nine states, twenty-seven divisions, eighty-one families, two hundred and forty-three tables, and seven hundred and twenty-nine praises. It is divided into three volumes, called 123, which corresponds to the Taichu Calendar and the Zhuanxu Calendar.
The three strategies are used for divination, linking good and bad luck, mixed with elephants, making predictions about personnel affairs, and the five actions are used for writing to compare morality, justice, etiquette and wisdom. There is no name for the subject, and it is consistent with the Five Classics. If it is not the real thing, there will be no empty text.
Because it is too chaotic and unknowable, there are eleven chapters including "Shou", "Chong", "Cuo", "Chess", "Tan", "Ying", "Shu", "Wen", "Wan", "Pictures" and "Gao", all of which are used to dissect the "Xuan" style and analyze the articles. The chapters and sentences are no longer passed down.
There are too many texts in "Xuan", so I won't record them; it's difficult to understand after reading them, and it's difficult to learn them successfully.
Some guests blamed "Xuan" for being too deep, and everyone disliked it. Yang Xiong wrote an essay to explain it, called "Resolving Difficulties."
The words said:
The guest blamed Yangzi and said: Anyone who writes a book must cater to everyone's preferences. He hopes that the delicious food will be pleasing to the mouth, and the beautiful sound will be pleasing to the ear.
Now you speak with eloquent words and profound meanings, with broad meanings and small meanings, galloping alone between existence and non-being, making a large pottery furnace, and painting various living things. I have read it for a year, but I still don’t understand it.
It's just a waste of energy here and trouble for scholars there. It's like a painter painting on the invisible, and a piano player following the silence, maybe it won't work, right? Yangzi said: Yes.
As for the lofty words and subtle ways, it is probably difficult to communicate with the readers.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
昔人有观象于天，视度于地，察法于人者，天丽且弥，地普而深，昔人之辞，乃玉乃金。
彼岂好为艰难哉？
势不得已也。
独不见夫翠虯绛螭之将登乎天，必耸身于仓梧之渊；不阶浮云，翼疾风，虚举而上升，则不能撠胶葛，腾九闳。
日月之经不千里，则不能烛六合，耀八纮；泰山之高不嶕峣，则不能浡滃云而散歊烝。
是以宓牺氏之作《易》也，绵络天地，经以八卦，文王附六爻，孔子错其象而彖其辞，然后发天地之臧，定万物之基。
《典》、《谟》之篇，《雅》、《颂》之声，不温纯深润，则不足以扬鸿烈而章缉熙。
盖胥靡为宰，寂寞为尸；大味必淡，大音必希；大语叫叫，大道低回。
是以声之眇者不可同于众人之耳，形之美者不可棍于世俗之目，辞之衍者不可齐于庸人之听。今夫弦者，高张急徽，追趋逐耆，则坐者不期而附矣；试为之族《咸池》，揄《六茎》，发《箫韶》，咏《九成》，则莫有和也。
是故钟期死，伯牙绝弦破琴而不肯与众鼓；獿人亡，则匠石辍斤而不敢妄斫。
师旷之调钟，俟知音者之在后也；孔子作《春秋》，几君子之前睹也。
老聃有遗言，贵知我者希，此非其操与！
雄见诸子各以其知舛驰，大氐诋訾圣人，即为怪迂。析辩诡辞，以挠世事，虽小辩，终破大道而或众，使溺于所闻而不自知其非也。
及太史公记六国，历楚、汉，讫麟止，不与圣人同，是非颇谬于经。
故人时有问雄者，常用法应之，撰以为十三卷，象《论语》，号曰《法言》。
《法言》文多不著，独著其目：天降生民，倥侗颛蒙，恣于情性，聪明不开，训诸理。
撰《学行》第一。
降周迄孔，成于王道，终后诞章乖离，诸子图微。
撰《吾子》第二。
事有本真，陈施于亿，动不克咸，本诸身。
translation: 
In the past, there were people who observed celestial phenomena, observed the dimensions of the earth, and judged the laws of people. The sky was obviously vast, and the earth was large and deep. In the words of the predecessors, it was gold or jade.
Does he like to pretend to be difficult?
The situation is unavoidable.
Don't you see that the Cui Qiu and Jiang Chi are about to ascend to the sky, and they must rise to the abyss of Cangwu; if they don't rely on floating clouds and strong winds to rise in the air, they can't reach Liao Kuo and soar to Jiu Hong.
If the sun and the moon do not travel a thousand miles, they cannot illuminate the heavens and the sky and shine on the eight strings; if Mount Tai does not tower into the clouds, they cannot gather floating clouds and disperse floating air.
Therefore, Fu Xi wrote the Book of Changes to connect heaven and earth and unify them with the Eight Diagrams. King Wen attached the Six Yao Lines and Confucius mixed the hexagrams and symbols into his rhetoric. Then he brought out the goodness of the Heaven and Earth and established the foundation of all things.
The chapters of "Dian" and "Mo", and the voices of "Ya" and "Song" are not gentle, pure and deep, and they are not enough to carry forward the great cause and show the light.
Therefore, we use nothingness to take charge and loneliness as the principle: the best taste must be bland, the best sound must be rare; the greatest words can spread far, but the road is crooked.
Therefore, beautiful sounds cannot be recognized by the ears of everyone, beautiful images cannot please the eyes of the world, and distant words cannot be heard by mediocre people. Nowadays, when playing the piano, the tone is high and urgent, catering to the public, and everyone will come unexpectedly; if you play "Xianchi", "Liugui", "Xiao Shao", and "Jiucheng", no one will respond.
So when Zhong Qi died, Boya broke his harp and broke the strings and refused to play for everyone. When Huo died, Craftsman Shi threw away his ax and did not dare to chop anything easily.
When Master Kuang tuned the bell, he had to wait for his close friend to arrive before proceeding; when Confucius wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals, he expected a gentleman to read it first.
Lao Dan has a saying, it is more valuable to have fewer people who understand me. Isn't this his moral integrity!
Yang Xiong saw that the scholars were all at odds with each other in their knowledge. Most of them slandered the saints, acted eccentrically, and made clever sophistry to disturb the current affairs. Even though they were small remarks, they would eventually destroy the great road and confuse everyone, causing them to indulge in what they heard but did not know that they were wrong.
By the time Tai Shigong recorded the Six Kingdoms, through the Chu and Han Dynasties, and by the end of "Lin Zhi", his views were different from those of the sages, and his concepts of right and wrong were very different from those of the classics.
Therefore, people often asked Yang Xiong, and Yang Xiong often imitated the words of the classics to answer them. He wrote a thirteen-volume imitation of the Analects of Confucius, called "Fayan".
Most of the articles in "Dharma Preface" do not record it, only its table of contents: All people are born ignorant, wanton and indulgent, their intelligence is not enlightened, and they are taught by reason.
He ranked first in "Xue Xing".
From Dan Gong to King Kong, the king's way was established. After that, falsehood prevailed and deviated from the way, and the plans of all the disciples declined.
The first one to write "My Son".
Things have their true nature, which is present in everything. If actions cannot be perfect, the reason lies within oneself.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
撰《修身》第三。
芒芒天道，在昔圣考，过则失中，不及则不至，不可奸罔。
撰《问道》第四。
神心曶恍，经纬万方，事系诸道德仁谊礼。撰《问神》第五。
明哲煌煌，旁烛亡疆，逊于不虞，以保天命。
撰《问明》第六。
假言周于天地，赞于神明，幽弘横广，绝于迩言。
撰《寡见》第七。
圣人聪明渊懿，继天测灵，冠于群伦，经诸范。
撰《五百》第八。
立政鼓众，动化天下，莫上于中和，中和之发，在于哲民情。
撰《先知》第九。
仲尼以来，国君、将相、卿士、名臣参差不齐，一概诸圣。
撰《重黎》第十。
仲尼之后，讫于汉道，德行颜、闵、股肱萧、曹，爰及名将尊卑之条，称述品藻。
撰《渊骞》第十一。
君子纯终领闻，蠢迪检押，旁开圣则。
撰《君子》第十二。
孝莫大于宁亲，宁亲莫大于宁神，宁神莫大于四表之欢心。撰《孝至》第十三。
赞曰：雄之自序云尔。
初，雄年四十余，自蜀来至游京师，大司马车骑将军王音奇其文雅，召以为门下史，荐雄待诏，岁余，奏《羽猎赋》，除为郎，给事黄门，与王莽、刘歆并。
哀帝之初，又与董贤同官。
当成、哀、平间，莽、贤皆为三公，权倾人主，所荐莫不拔擢，而雄三世不徙官。
及莽篡位，谈说之士用符命称功德获封爵者甚众，雄复不侯，以耆老久次转为大夫，恬于势利乃如是。
实好古而乐道，其意欲求文章成名于后世，以为经莫大于《易》，故作《太玄》；传莫大于《论语》，作《法言》；史篇莫善于《仓颉》，作《训纂》；箴莫善于《虞箴》，作《州箴》；赋莫深于《离骚》，反而广之；辞莫丽于相如，作四赋；皆斟酌其本，相与放依而驰骋云。
用心于内，不求于外，于时人皆曶之；唯刘歆及范逡敬焉，而醒潭以为绝伦。
translation: 
The third chapter of "Cultivation".
The radiant way of heaven was created by the ancient saints. If it exceeds it, it will be incompatible. If it falls short, it will not be achieved. It must not be treacherous and false.
The fourth work of "Asking".
The mind is in a trance, the latitude and longitude are thousands of directions, and it is related to morality, benevolence, justice and etiquette. The fifth volume of "Asking God".
With wisdom and beauty, illumination has no boundaries, avoiding unexpected events and preserving destiny.
The sixth chapter of "Asking for Ming".
It is said from far across the heaven and earth to praise the gods. It is profound, vast and grand, surpassing the modern world.
The seventh volume of "Little Views".
The sage is wise, profound and beautiful. He follows the divine destiny and surpasses all others. This is a common practice.
The eighth of "Five Hundred".
To establish a government and persuade the people, to influence the world, neutrality is the highest, and the use of neutrality lies in knowing the people's sentiments.
The ninth work of "Prophet".
Since Zhongni, the kings, generals, ministers, ministers and famous ministers have different ambitions and careers, but they are unified in the path of sainthood.
The tenth chapter of "Chongli".
After Confucius, he ended up in the Han Dynasty, where Yan and Wei were highly respected for their virtues. The ministers of Gu Gong promoted Gai and Cao.
The eleventh edition of "Yuan Qian".
A gentleman has a good reputation, corrects himself and then takes action to promote the holy law.
The twelfth chapter of "The Gentleman".
The greatest filial piety is to bring peace to one's parents, the best peace of mind is to bring peace to one's gods, and the best peace of mind is to win the favor of all parties. The thirteenth chapter of "Filial Piety".
Praise: This is Yang Xiong's self-preface.
At first, when Yang Xiong was in his forties, he came from Shu to visit the capital. Wang Yin, the chief chariot general, admired his literary talent and called him a sect's historian. He recommended Yang Xiong to wait for the imperial edict. More than a year later, he presented "Yu Hunter Fu" and was dismissed from his official position as a Lang. He was given a job in Huangmen, alongside Wang Mang and Liu Xin.
At the beginning of Emperor Ai's reign, he became the same official as Dong Xian.
During the Cheng, Ai, and Ping years, both Wang Mang and Dong Xian became the Three Dukes. They were more powerful than other rulers and promoted everyone they recommended. However, Yang Xiong did not get promoted in the third generation.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, commentators used talismans to praise his merits and many people were knighted. Yang Xiong was still not knighted. He was gradually promoted to a doctor because of his age. He was so indifferent and snobbish.
He really loved the ancient times and loved Taoism, and wanted to be famous for his articles in later generations. He believed that the greatest classic was "Yi", so he wrote "Tai Xuan"; In the "Exuns and Compilations", the best precepts are "Yu Zhen", so I wrote "Zhou Zhen"; the most profound poems are "Li Sao", so I contradict it and promote it; the most gorgeous words are Danru, so I wrote four poems: they all explore the origin and imitate it.
His heart was inward and he did not seek anything from the outside. At that time, people despised him. Only Xingti and Liankui respected him, while Danai thought he was incomparable.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
王莽时，刘歆、甄丰皆为上公，莽既以符命自立，即位之后，欲绝其原以神前事，而丰子寻、歆子棻复献之。
莽诛丰父子，投棻四裔，辞所连及，便收不请。
时，雄校书天禄阁上，治狱使者来，欲收雄，雄恐不能自免，乃从阁上自投下，几死。
莽闻之曰： 雄素不与事，何故在此？
间请问其故，乃刘棻尝从雄学作奇字，雄不知情。
有诏勿问。
然京师为之语曰： 惟寂寞，自投阁；爰清静，作符命。
雄以病免，复召为大夫。
家素贫，耆酒，人希至其门。
时有好事者载酒肴从游学，而巨鹿侯芭常从雄居，受其《太玄》、《法言》焉。
刘歆亦尝观之，谓雄曰： 空自苦！
今学者有禄利，然向不能明《易》，又如《玄》何？
吾恐后人用覆酱瓿也。
雄笑而不应。
年七十一，天凤五年卒，侯芭为起坟，丧之三年。
时，大司空王邑、纳言严尤闻雄死，谓桓谭曰： 子常称扬雄书，岂能传于后世乎？
谭曰： 必传。
顾君与谭不及见也。
凡人贱近而贵远，亲见扬子云禄位容貌不能动人，故轻其书。
昔老聃著虚无之言两篇，薄仁义，非礼学，然后世好之者尚以为过于《五经》，自汉文、景之君及司马迁皆有是言。
今诊子之书文义至深，而论不诡于圣人，若使遭遇时君，更阅贤知，为所称善，则必度越诸子矣。
诸儒或讥以为雄非圣人而作经，犹春秋吴楚之君僣号称王，盖诛绝之罪也。
自雄之没至今四十余年，其《法言》大行，而《玄》终不显，然篇籍具存。
translation: 
During the reign of Wang Mang, both Liu Xin and Zhen Feng became princes. Since Wang Mang relied on the talisman to establish himself, after he came to the throne, he wanted to ban this practice in order to deify his past affairs. Zhen Feng's son Zhen Xun and Liu Xin's son Liu Fen also presented the talisman's fortune.
Wang Mang killed Zhen Feng and his son, and exiled Liu Fen to the fourth generation. Anyone implicated in his confession was immediately dismissed without any need to report.
At that time, Yang Xiong was writing to the colonel in Tianlu Pavilion. The envoy handling the case came and wanted to arrest Yang Xiong. Yang Xiong was afraid that he could not escape, so he jumped from the pavilion and almost died.
After hearing this, Wang Mang said: Yang Xiong has never been involved in this matter, why is he in this case?
They secretly inquired about the reason and found out that Liu Fen had learned to write strange characters from Yang Xiong, but Yang Xiong didn't know about it.
Shao Shao will not pursue him.
However, the capital master commented on this: Because of loneliness, he is in harmony with himself; because of tranquility, he is a talisman.
Yang Xiong was dismissed from his post due to illness and was called a doctor again.
His family has always been poor and he likes to drink. People rarely come to his home.
At that time, troubled people brought wine and food to study with him. Julu Houba often lived with Yang Xiong and learned "Tai Xuan" and "Fa Yan".
Liu Xin also saw it and said to Yang Xiong: You have made yourself suffer in vain!
Nowadays, scholars with good fortune cannot understand "Yi", let alone "Xuan"?
I'm afraid that future generations will use it to cover sauce pots.
Yang Xiong smiled but didn't answer.
He lived to be seventy-one years old and died in the fifth year of Tianfeng. Houba built a tomb for him and kept a mourning for him for three years.
At that time, Grand Sikong Wangyi and Nayan Yanyou heard that Yang Xiong had died and said to Huan Tan: Can your book praising Yang Xiong be passed down to future generations?
Huan Tan said: It will definitely spread.
But you and Huan Tan can’t see it.
Mortals despise the near and value the far. Seeing with their own eyes that Yang Ziyun's status and appearance are not impressive, they despise his books.
In the past, Lao Dan wrote two articles on nothingness, which underestimated benevolence and righteousness and refuted rituals. However, later generations liked it and thought it surpassed the Five Classics. Emperors Wen, Jing, and Sima Qian of the Han Dynasty all said this.
Nowadays, Yangzi's books have the deepest meaning, and their expositions do not violate the saints. If they meet the monarchs of that time, read them by the wise men, and are praised by them, they will definitely surpass the scholars.
Some scholars ridiculed Yang Xiong for not being a saint but writing scriptures, just like the Spring and Autumn Period monarchs of Wu and Chu who overrode and proclaimed themselves kings, which should be the crime of annihilating their clans and their descendants.
It has been more than 40 years since Yang Xiong's death, and his "Fayan" has become popular in the world. However, "Xuan" has not been revealed in the end, but the chapters are there.


