Chunk 0: 
original: 
杜周，南阳杜衍人也。
义纵为南阳太守，以周为爪牙，荐之张汤，为廷尉史。
使案边失亡，所论杀甚多。
奏事中意，任用，与减宣更为中丞者十余岁。
周少言重迟，而内深次骨。
宣为左内史，周为廷尉，其治大抵放张汤，而善候司。
上所欲挤者，因而陷之；上所欲释，久系待问而微见其冤状。
客有谓周曰： 君为天下决平，不循三尺法，专以人主意指为狱，狱者固如是乎？
周曰： 三尺安出哉？
前主所是著为律，后主所是疏为令；当时为是，何古之法乎！
至周为廷尉，诏狱亦益多矣。
二千石系者新故相因，不减百余人。
郡吏大府举之廷尉，一岁至千余章。
translation: 
Du Zhou was born in Du Yan County, Nanyang County.
When Yi Zong was the governor of Nanyang County, he regarded him as his right-hand assistant, and later recommended him to Zhang Tang as the official history of the court.
He was sent to investigate the losses in border counties, and many people were convicted and executed.
The affairs of the memorial were in line with the emperor's wishes, and he was trusted. He succeeded each other with the reduction of propaganda, and served as Zhongcheng for more than ten years.
Du Zhou is taciturn and slow-tempered, but has a kind heart.
Jiaxuan served as Zuo Neishi, and Du Zhou served as Tingwei. Most of his governance followed Zhang Tang's example and he was good at observing the emperor's intentions.
If the emperor wants to exclude him, he will be framed; if the emperor wants to forgive him, he will be imprisoned for a long time, and he will secretly visit him to reveal his grievances.
Someone among the disciples reproached Du Zhou and said: You judge cases for the emperor, do not follow the established laws, and handle cases exclusively according to the monarch's will. Is this what judicial officials should be like?
Du Zhou said: How did the law come into being?
In the past, whatever the monarch thought was correct was enacted into law, and later monarchs thought it was correct and wrote it down as decree. If it suits the situation at that time, it is correct. Why use the laws of the past?
When Du Zhou served as a court lieutenant, the emperor assigned more cases.
Two thousand officials were imprisoned, old and new, and no less than a hundred people were imprisoned.
Cases from the county governor, prime minister and censor's office were all sent to the court, reaching more than a thousand cases a year.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
章大者连逮证案数百，小者数十人；远者数千里，近者数百里。
会狱，吏因责如章告劾，不服，以掠笞定之。
于是闻有逮证，皆亡匿。
狱久者至更数赦十余岁而相告言，大氐尽诋以不道，以上延尉及中都官，诏狱逮至六七万人，吏所增加十有余万。
周中废，后为执金吾，逐捕桑弘羊、卫皇后昆弟子刻深，上以为尽力无私，迁为御史大夫。
始周为廷史，有一马，及久任事，列三公，而两子夹河为郡守，家訾累巨万矣。
治皆酷暴，唯少子延年行宽厚云。
延年字幼公，亦明法律。
昭帝初立，大将军霍光秉政，以延年三公子，吏材有余，补军司空。
translation: 
A big case involves hundreds of arrest witnesses, and a small case involves dozens; these people are thousands of miles away and hundreds of miles away.
During the trial, the judge ordered these people to plead guilty according to the indictment. If they refused to plead guilty, they would be tortured to extract confessions and be convicted.
At that time, when people heard the news that someone was going to be arrested, they ran away or hid.
The case dragged on for a long time and went through several amnesties. It lasted for more than ten years and was still being prosecuted. Most of them were framed on charges of "injustice" or more. The prisons of various government offices in Tingwei and the capital housed 60,000 to 70,000 criminals, and the number of criminals added by ordinary officials was as high as 100,000.
Du Zhou was deposed midway, and later served as Jinwu, hunting down thieves, arresting and interrogating the sons of Sang Hongyang and Queen Wei's brothers. He was harsh and vicious. The emperor believed that he did his best and had no selfish motives, so he was promoted to the imperial censor.
Du Zhou initially served as a court official and had a horse. After he had been an official for a long time, he was promoted to the position of three princes. One of his two sons was the governor of Hanoi and the other was the governor of Henan. His family wealth accumulated to hundreds of millions.
Everyone handles cases very violently, but only Shaozi Yannian is kind-hearted.
Du Yannian, named Yougong, was also well versed in law.
Emperor Zhao ascended the throne, and General Huo Guang took power. Because Du Yannian was the son of the Three Lords, he had the talent to serve as an official to supplement the army.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
始元四年，益州蛮夷反，延年以校尉将南阳士击益州，还，为谏大夫。
左将军上官桀父子与盖主、燕王谋为逆乱。假稻田使者燕仓知其谋，以告大司农杨敞。
敞惶惧，移病，以语延年。
延年以闻，桀等伏辜。
延年封为建平侯。
延年本大将军霍光吏，首发大奸，有忠节，由是擢为太仆、右曹、给事中。
光持刑罚严，延年辅之以宽。
治燕王狱时，御史大夫桑弘羊子迁亡，过父故吏侯史吴。
后迁捕得，伏法。
会赦，侯史吴自出系狱，廷尉王平与少府徐仁杂治反事，皆以为桑迁坐父谋反而侯史吴臧之，非匿反者，乃匿为随者也。即以赦令除吴罪。
后侍御史治实，以桑迁通经术，知父谋反而不谏争，与反者身无异；侯史吴故三百石吏，首匿迁，不与庶人匿随从者等，吴不得赦。
translation: 
In the fourth year of the First Yuan Dynasty, barbarians invaded Yizhou. As a school captain, Yannian led the Nanyang soldiers to attack the Yizhou rebellion, returned to the army, and served as an admonishment official.
The left general Shangguan Jie and his son plotted rebellion with the Lord of Gai and the King of Yan. Yancang, the acting rice envoy, knew about the plot and reported it to Yang Chang, the chief agricultural officer.
Yang Chang was frightened and moved away because of illness, and reported to Yannian.
Yannian reported to the emperor, and Shangguan Jie and others were executed.
Yannian was granted the title of Marquis of Jianping.
Du Yannian was originally a subordinate of the general Huo Guang. He was the first to report the traitor. He had a reputation for loyalty and integrity, so he was promoted to the position of Imperial Servant Youcao to Shizhong.
Huo Guang held strict punishments and extended his life with lenient punishments.
When handling the case of King Yan, Sang Qian, the son of Sang Hongyang, the imperial censor, stayed at the home of his father's old subordinate Hou Shiwu when he escaped.
After Sang Qian was arrested, he was executed.
At the time of the amnesty, Hou Shiwu was released from prison. When Prince Tingwei and Shaofu Xu Ren tried the rebellion case, they both believed that Sang Qian was implicated in his father's rebellion, but Hou Shiwu only stayed with Sang Qian, not to hide the rebels, but to hide his followers, so Hou Shiwu was pardoned.
Later, the imperial censor inspected and found that Sang Qian was a proficient in Confucian classics. He knew that his father was plotting rebellion but did not protest, which was no different from a rebel. Hou Shiwu was originally a three hundred stone official, and he first hid from Sang Qian. He should not be treated like a commoner who hid as a follower. Hou Shiwu was not allowed to be pardoned.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
奏请复治，劾廷尉、少府纵反者。
少府徐仁即丞相车千秋女婿也，故千秋数为侯史吴言。
恐光不听，千秋即召中二千石、博士会公车门，议问吴法。
议者知大将军指，皆执吴为不道。
明日，千秋封上众议，光于是以千秋擅召中二千石以下，外内异言，遂下延尉平、少府仁狱。
朝廷皆恐丞相坐之。
延年乃奏记光争，以为 吏纵罪人，有常法，今更诋吴为不道，恐于法深。
又丞相素无所守持，而为好言于下，尽其素行也。
至擅召中二千石，甚无状。
延年愚，以为丞相久故，及先帝用事，非有大故，不可弃也。
间者民颇言狱深，吏为峻诋，今丞相所议，又狱事也，如是以及丞相，恐不合众心。
群下讠雚哗，庶人私议，流言四布，延年窃重将军失此名于天下也！
光以廷尉、少府弄法轻重，皆论弃市，而不以及丞相，终与相竟。
translation: 
The memorial is requested for a review, and those who indulge in rebels such as the imperial officers and the young government officials are impeached.
Shaofu Xu Ren was the son-in-law of Prime Minister Che Qianqiu, so Qianqiu explained to Hou Shiwu many times.
Afraid that Huo Guang would not listen, Qianqiu summoned Er Qian Shi and the Doctor to the bus door to discuss how Hou Shi Wudang should deal with it.
The discussants all knew the general's intention and insisted that Hou Shiwu was illegal.
The next day, Qianqiu reported it to the public, and Huo Guang claimed that Qianqiu was good at summoning two thousand stones to hold a meeting. There were objections both inside and outside the court, so he had Wang Ping, the imperial officer, and Xu Ren, the Shaofu, imprisoned.
The imperial court was afraid that the prime minister would be implicated.
Yannian went to court to argue with Huo Guang. He believed that officials indulged criminals and had the basis of regular laws. Now, instead of falsely accusing Hou Shiwu of being treasonous and immoral, it was probably too serious.
The prime minister has always been unruly, but always speaks kind words to his subordinates, and this is what he has always done.
As for saying that he is good at summoning two thousand stones, there is no basis for it.
Yannian was stupid and thought that the prime minister had been in office for a long time and had served under the late emperor. He should not be abandoned unless there was a major change.
Recently, people have been saying that the prison system is harsh and the prison officials are harsh and cruel. What the Prime Minister is discussing now is prison matters. If this matter also involves the Prime Minister, it may not be popular with everyone.
The crowd was in an uproar, the common people were talking among themselves, and rumors were spreading. Yannian was worried that the general would lose his reputation in the world because of this incident!
Huo Guang, based on the severity of the tactics of the Tingwei and the Shaofu, sentenced them all to death for abandoning the city, but not to the Prime Minister, nor to demotion.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
延年论议持平，合和朝廷，皆此类也。
见国家承武帝奢侈师旅之后，数为大将军光言： 年岁比不登，流民未尽还，宜修孝文明政，示以俭约宽和，顺天心，说民意，年岁宜应。
光纳其言，举贤良，议罢酒榷、盐、铁，皆自延年发之。
吏民上书言便宜，有异，辄下延年平处复奏。
言可官试者，至为县令，或丞相、御史除用，满岁以状闻，或抵其罪法，常与两府及廷尉分章。
昭帝末，寝疾，征天下名医，延年典领方药。
帝崩，昌邑王即位，废，大将军光、车骑将军张安世与大臣议所立。
时，宣帝养于掖廷，号皇曾孙，与延年中子佗相爱善，延年知曾孙德美，劝光、安世立焉。
translation: 
This is how the discussion about prolonging life can be balanced and the court can be harmonious.
Seeing that the country had used troops extravagantly after Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Du Yannian said to the general Huo Guang several times: The harvest has not been good for several years, and the refugees have not yet returned to their hometowns. Emperor Wen should carry out the current affairs of the country, show frugality and tolerance, be obedient to nature, and please the people. There should be good harvests every year.
Huo Guang accepted his words, promoted virtuous people, and discussed the abolition of monopoly on wine, salt and iron, all of which started from Yannian.
When officials and people submit letters to discuss matters, if they have any objections, they should immediately hand them over to Yannian for a balanced settlement.
Suggestions can be implemented by the government, recommended to the county magistrate, and some are appointed by the prime minister or censor, and the status of the appointment will be reported after one year. Those who speak out are guilty of treachery, and are often dealt with separately by the two governments and the court officials.
In the last years of Emperor Zhao's life, he was ill and recruited famous doctors from all over the world. Du Yannian was in charge of prescriptions.
When the emperor died, King Changyi ascended the throne and was deposed. The general Huo Guang and the chariot general Zhang Anshi discussed the establishment of the emperor with the ministers.
At that time, Emperor Xuan was raised in Yeting, and he was named the emperor's great-grandson. He was friendly with Yannian's middle son Du Tuo. Yannian knew his great-grandson's virtue and persuaded Huo Guang and Anshi to establish him as emperor.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
宣帝即位，褒赏大臣，延年以定策安宗庙，益户二千三百，与始封所食邑凡四千三百户。
诏有司论定策功：大司马大将军光功德过太尉绛侯周勃；车骑将军安世、丞相杨敞功比丞相陈平；前将军韩增、御史大夫蔡谊功比颍阴侯灌婴；太仆杜延年功比朱虚侯刘章；后将军赵充国、大司农田延年、少府史乐成功比典客刘揭，皆封侯益土。
延年为人安和，备于诸事，久典朝政，上任信之，出即奉驾，入给事中，居九卿位十余年，赏赐赂遗，訾数千万。
霍光薨后，子禹与宗族谋反，诛。
上以延年霍氏旧人，欲退之，而丞相魏相奏延年素贵用事，官职多奸。
遣吏考案，但得苑马多死，官奴婢乏衣食，延年坐免官，削户二千。
后数月，复召拜为北地太守。
延年以故九卿外为边吏，治郡不进，上以玺书让延年。
延年乃选用良吏，捕击豪强，郡中清静。
居岁余，上使谒者赐延年玺书，黄金二十斤，徙为西河太守，治甚有名。
translation: 
When Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, he praised the ministers, extended his life, and made plans to install the ancestral temple. He added 2,300 households, making a total of 4,300 households with the initial enfeoffment of food.
According to the imperial edict, the meritorious merits of the general Huo Guang surpassed the Taiwei Jianghou Zhou Bo, the chariot general An Shi and the prime minister Yang Chang surpassed the prime minister Chen Ping, the former general Han Zeng and the imperial censor Cai Ying surpassed Ying Yinhou Guanying in merit, the servant Du Yannian surpassed Zhu Xuhou Liu Zhang in merit, the later general Tachong Guo, the chief minister farmland Yannian, and the Shaofu Shi Le successfully surpassed Dianke Liu Jie, all of them were granted the title of marquis Yitu.
Yannian is a peaceful person, good at handling various government affairs, and has been in charge of government affairs for a long time. The emperor trusts him, and he will accompany him when he leaves home.
After Huo Guang's death, his son Huo Yu rebelled against the clan and was executed.
The emperor regarded Du Yannian as an old member of the Huo family and wanted to avoid retirement. However, Prime Minister Wei Xiangzhuo Yannian had always been honorable and trustworthy, and many of the officials he appointed were illegal.
Officials were sent to open a case for investigation, but it was found that many horses died, and the official servants lacked food and clothing. Yannian was implicated in breaking the law and dismissed from office, and two thousand households were cut off.
A few months later, he was appointed as the governor of the north.
Yannian was appointed as a border official by the former Jiuqing, but his performance in governing the county was not obvious. The emperor used a seal to reprimand Yannian.
In Yannian, good officials were selected, the powerful were captured, and the county was peaceful.
More than a year later, the emperor sent an audience to give Yannian a seal, twenty pounds of gold, and moved him to be the governor of Xihe. He was famous for his achievements in governance.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
五凤中，征入为御史大夫。
延年居父官府，不敢当旧位，坐卧皆易其处。
是时，四夷和，海内平，延年视事三岁，以老病乞骸骨，天子优之，使光禄大夫持节赐延年黄金百斤、酒，加致医药，延年遂称病笃。赐安车驷马，罢就第。
后数月薨，谥曰敬侯，子缓嗣。
缓少为郎，本始中以校尉从蒲类将军击匈奴，还为谏大夫，迁上谷都尉，雁门太守。
父延年薨，征视丧事，拜为太常，治诸陵县，每冬月封具狱日，常去酒省食，官属称其有恩。
元帝初即位，谷贵民流，永光中西羌反，缓辄上书入钱、谷以助用，前后数百万。
缓六弟，五人至大官，少弟熊历五郡二千石、三州牧刺史，有能名，唯中弟钦官不至而最知名。
translation: 
During the Wufeng period, he was transferred to the imperial court as a censor.
He lived in his father's official residence and did not dare to use his father's seat. He moved to another place to sit and lie down.
At this time, the four barbarians were harmonious and the country was at peace. He served for three years and resigned due to old age and illness. The emperor treated him favorably and sent Dr. Guanglu to give him a hundred catties of gold and wine, as well as medicine. Du Yannian was seriously ill, and the emperor gave him a chariot and horses, and he was dismissed from office.
Died a few months later. Mi was given the title Jinghou, and his son Du Xu succeeded him as Marquis.
Du Xu served as a Langguan when he was young. In this year, he followed General Pulei to attack the Xiongnu as a school captain. He also served as an admonishing official in the court, and was transferred to the captain of Shanggu and the prefect of Yanmen.
When his father passed away in Yannian, he was in charge of funerals. Afterwards, he became Taichang and managed the counties where the tombs were located. Whenever the verdict was finalized in the winter months, he often went to drink and save food. All the subordinate officials praised him for his kindness.
When Emperor Yuan first came to the throne, the price of grain was high and the people were scattered. During the Yongguang period, the Western Qiang rebelled, so Du Su sent a letter to donate money to the valley to support the army, worth millions.
Du Xu had six younger brothers, five of whom reached senior officials. The younger brother Du Xiong successively held the official position of two thousand stones in five counties and was the governor of three states. He was famous for his ability. Only the middle brother Du Qin is the most famous without being an official.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
钦字子夏，少好经书，家富而目偏盲，故不好为吏。
茂陵杜邺与钦同姓字，俱以材能称京师，故衣冠谓钦为 盲杜子夏 以相别。
钦恶以疾见诋，乃为小冠，高广财二寸，由是京师更谓钦为 小冠杜子夏 ，而邺为 大冠杜子夏 云。
时，帝舅大将军王凤以外戚辅政，求贤知自助。
凤父顷侯禁与钦兄缓相善，故凤深知钦能，奏请钦为大将军军武库令。
职闲无事，钦所好也。
钦为人深博有谋。
自上为太子时，以好色闻，及即位，皇太后诏采良家女。
钦因是说大将军凤曰： 礼壹娶九女，所以极阳数，广嗣重祖也；必乡举求窈窕，不问华色，所以助德理内也；娣侄虽缺不复补，所以养寿塞争也。
translation: 
Du Qin, whose courtesy name was Wang Xia, was a young man who loved scriptures. His family was rich but he was blind, so he was not good at being an official.
Maoling Du Ye and Du Qin had the same surname, and both were famous for their talents in the capital. Therefore, the scholar-bureaucrats called Du Qin "Blind Du Zixia" to distinguish them.
However, Du Qin was afraid of being looked down upon because of his illness, so he wore a small hat and was only two inches tall and wide. Therefore, people in the capital renamed Du Qin "Little Crown Du Zixia" and Du Ye called him "Big Crown Du Zixia".
At that time, the emperor's uncle, General Wang Feng, was assisting the government by his relatives, and he was looking for someone with good moral character and knowledge to assist him.
Wang Feng's father, Wang Jin, the Marquis of Qing, was a good friend of Du Qin's brother, Du Xu. Therefore, Wang Feng knew that Du Qin was talented, so he petitioned Du Qin to be the general's military arsenal order.
Having nothing to do at work is exactly what Du Qin wants.
Du Qin was a knowledgeable and strategic man.
When the emperor was the prince, he was lustful. After he ascended the throne, the empress dowager ordered the selection of girls from good families.
Du Qin told the general Wang Feng about this matter: The emperor wants to marry nine daughters at a time, which is the limit of the number of yangs, in order to spread heirs, respect the ancestors, and promote the emperor's legacy; the nine daughters should be selected from the countryside, regardless of their beauty, just to help with virtue and manage the harem; although there is a shortage of concubines, it is not necessary to make up for them, which will help to maintain longevity and prevent competition for favor.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
故后妃有贞淑之行，则胤嗣有贤圣之君；制度有威仪之节，则人君有寿考之福。
废而不由，则女德不厌；女德不厌，则寿命不究于高年。
《书》云： 或四三年 ，言失欲之生害也。
男子五十，好色未衰；妇人四十，容貌改前。
以改前之容侍于未衰之年，而不以礼为制，则其原不可救而后徕异态；后徕异态，则正后自疑而支庶有间適之心。
是以晋献被纳谗之谤，申生蒙无罪之辜。
今圣主富于春秋，未有適嗣，方乡术入学，未亲后妃之议。
将军辅政，宜因始初之隆，建九女之制，详择有行义之家，求淑女之质，毋必有色声音技能，为万世大法。
夫少，戒之在色，《小卞》之作，可为寒心。
唯将军常以为忧。
凤白之太后，太后以为故事无有。
translation: 
If the concubine is virtuous, a virtuous king will appear in his successors; if a majestic instrument system is established, the monarch will have the blessing of longevity.
If you abandon rituals and don't use them, you will be lustful; if you are lustful, your life span will not reach a long life.
"The Book" says that some people lose their lives in three or four years, which means that out-of-control sexual pleasure will damage their lives.
When a man is fifty, his lust has not faded; when a woman is forty, her appearance has changed.
If one waits for the old age with the attitude of change and does not control it with etiquette, then the original irreversible appearance will turn into an abnormal mentality; if the abnormal mentality appears, then the queen will be suspicious of herself and will be alienated from the concubine, and then she will have the intention to abolish the direct descendant.
Therefore, Duke Xian of Jin accepted the slander, while Shen Sheng was innocent of the injustice.
Today, the Holy Lord is young and has no direct heir. He is devoted to academics and has no intention of getting close to his concubine.
When the general assists the government, he should follow the original grand etiquette, establish the system of nine women, carefully choose the house of etiquette, and seek the quality of virtuous women. It is not necessary to have sexual skills, so as to set an example for all generations.
Young man, the thing to be wary of is sex, "Poetry." "Xiao Bian", in which King You deposed Empress Shen and the Crown Prince, can be heart-breaking.
General Wang always worries him.
Wang Feng told the Queen Mother that she believed there was no such system.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
钦复重言： 《诗》云： 殷监不远，在夏后氏之世 。刺戒者至迫近，而省听者常怠忽，可不慎哉！
前言九女，略陈其祸福，甚可悼惧，窃恐将军不深留意。
后妃之制，夭寿治乱存亡之端也。
迹三代之季世，览宗、宣之飨国，察近属之符验，祸败曷常不由女德？
是以佩玉晏鸣，《关雎》叹之，知好色之伐性短年，离制度之生无厌，天下将蒙化，陵夷而成俗也。
故咏淑女，几以配上，忠孝之笃，仁厚之作也。
夫君亲寿尊，国家治安，诚臣子至愿，所当勉之也。
translation: 
Du Qin also said: "Poetry" says that the Yin Dynasty can learn from it not far away. In the era of the Xia Hou clan, those who satirized and exhorted thought that the matter was urgent, but the listeners often did not pay attention. How could they not be cautious!
The nine-female system mentioned earlier only briefly stated the advantages and disadvantages, but it was so daunting that the general may not have noticed it yet.
The system of concubines is related to longevity, control of chaos, and survival.
Examine the deeds of the last three generations, observe the length of reign of Emperor Gaozong of Yin and King Xuan of Zhou, and see the omens and fulfillments of misfortunes and fortunes of the Han family. Isn’t it possible that the Han family’s defeat was not caused by women’s lust?
Therefore, "The Book of Songs" talks about wearing jade ornaments to pay homage to the king when the cock crows. King Kang and Queen Zhou abolished the ritual of morning worship. "Guan Ju" sighed for this. We should understand that being lustful will shorten our lifespan. Without the constraints of the system, we will be greedy for lust, and our customs will be damaged and gradually become bad habits.
Praising virtuous and beautiful women, hoping to match the king, loyalty and filial piety are indeed among them. The kind poet wrote such a beautiful poem for this purpose.
Long life for the king and relatives, and long-lasting peace for the country are actually the highest wishes of the ministers, and this is why they should strive for it.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
《易》曰： 正其本，万物理。 凡事论有疑未可立行者，求之往古则典刑无，考之来今则吉凶同，卒摇易之则民心惑，若是者诚难施也。
今九女之制，合于往古，无害于今，不逆于民心，至易行也，行之至有福也，将军辅政而不蚤定，非天下之所望也。
唯将军信臣子之愿，念《关雎》之思，逮委政之隆，及始初清明，为汉家建无穷之基，诚难以忽，不可以遴。
凤不能自立法度，循故事而已。
会皇太后女弟司马君力与钦兄子私通，事上闻，钦惭惧，乞骸骨去。
后有日蚀、地震之变，诏举贤良方正能直言士，合阳侯梁放举钦。
钦上对曰： 陛下畏天命，悼变异，延见公卿，举直言之士，将以求天心，迹得失也。
臣钦愚戆，经术浅薄，不足以奉大对。
臣闻日蚀、地震，阳微阴盛也。
臣者，君之阴也；子者，父之阴也；妻者，夫之阴也；夷狄者，中国之阴也。
《春秋》日蚀三十六，地震五，或夷狄侵中国，或政权在臣下，或妇乘夫，或臣子背君父，事虽不同，其类一也。
臣窃观人事以考变异，则本朝大臣无不自安之人，外戚亲属无乖刺之心，关东诸侯无强大之国，三垂蛮夷无逆理之节；殆为后宫。
translation: 
"Book of Changes" said: True to its origin, everything is smooth and coordinated. There may be things that cannot be implemented immediately. There are no records in ancient times. However, if we examine today, the good and bad are the same. If the will of the people above is shaken, the people will be confused. If this is the case, it will be difficult for the system to work.
Today's system of nine women is in line with the past, harmless to the present, not against the people's will, and is the easiest to implement. Once implemented, it will be the greatest blessing for the country. It is not the wish of the people of the world to have generals assisting the government without making early decisions.
I hope that the general will trust his ministers' wishes, understand the thoughts of "Guan Ju", be worthy of the grand and courteous entrustment, realize the purity of the emperor at the beginning of his accession to the throne, and build an infinite foundation for the Han family. It cannot be ignored or hesitated.
Wang Feng was unable to legislate his own laws and was just following the old system.
It happened that Sima Junli, the sister of the Empress Dowager, had an affair with Du Qin's brother and son. When the matter was reported to the police, Du Qin was so frightened that he begged to leave his job.
Later, there were solar eclipses and earthquakes, and orders were given to recommend virtuous and upright people who could speak out and give advice. Liangfang, the Marquis of Heyang, recommended Du Qin.
Du Qin said to him: Your Majesty is afraid of destiny and disaster. He introduces officials and recommends outspoken people. He will seek God's will and observe the disappearance.
The minister Du Qin is stupid and has shallow Confucian skills, and is not able to answer the emperor's questions.
I heard that solar eclipses and earthquakes are signs that Yang is weak and Yin is strong.
The minister is the negative side of the king; the son is the negative side of the father; the wife is the negative side of the husband; Yi and Di are the negative side of the Central Plains.
"Spring and Autumn" records thirty-six solar eclipses and five earthquakes. There may be barbarians invading the Central Plains, or the power lies with the ministers, there may be a wife who dominates her husband, or the ministers betray the emperor and his father. Although the things are different, they are of the same type.
I have privately observed changes in personnel matters. There are no ministers in this dynasty who are restless and self-disciplined. There are no relatives who are greedy or cruel. The princes in Guandong do not have a strong country. The remote peoples do not act against the will. The danger lies in the harem.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
何以言之？
日以戊申蚀。时加未。
戊未，土也。
土者，中宫之部也。
其夜地震未央宫殿中，此必適妾将有争宠相害而为患者，唯陛下深戒之。
变感以类相应，人事失于下，变象见于上。
能应之以德，则异咎消亡；不能应之以善，则祸败至。
高宗遭雊雉之戒，饬己正事，享百年之寿，殷道复兴，要在所以应之。
应之非诚不立，非信不行。
宋景公，小国之诸侯耳，有不忍移祸之诚，出人君之言三，荧惑为之退舍。
以陛下圣明，内推至诚，深思天变，何应而不感？
何摇而不动？
孔子曰： 仁远乎哉！
唯陛下正后妾，抑女宠，防奢泰，去佚游，躬节俭，亲万事，数御安车，由辇道，亲二宫之饔膳，致晨昏之定省。
如此，即尧、舜不足与比隆，咎异何足消灭？
translation: 
Why do you say this?
He said that when he was eating in Wushen, it was not until the end of time.
Wuwei belongs to earth.
Earth is the part of the middle palace.
There was an earthquake in the Weiyang palace at night, which means that the concubines and concubines will compete for favors and cause harm to each other. I hope your majesty will take warning.
The induction of change is based on similar responses. People are seen below, and the signs of change are seen above.
If you can respond with virtue, disaster will disappear; if you cannot respond with good governance, disaster will come.
When Yin Gaozong encountered the pheasant's condemnation, he corrected his conduct, rectified political affairs, and enjoyed a hundred years of life. The key to the revival of the Yin Dynasty was to be good at dealing with disasters.
If the correspondence is not sincere, it will not be successful, and if it is not trustworthy, it will not be implemented.
Duke Jinggong of the Song Dynasty was a prince of a small country. He had a sincere heart and could not bear to pass on disasters. If he spoke repeatedly, the star of Yinghuo would retreat from his heart.
With His Majesty’s sage wisdom, innermost sincerity, and deep contemplation of the changes in heaven, what response would not move Heaven?
What can be shaken but not shaken?
The bastard said, "Benevolence is so far away!"
I hope that your majesty will have concubines, restrain female favors, prevent extravagant encounters, go on leisurely trips, be frugal in person, attend to everything in person, use many royal guards to install chariots, walk along the chariot road, personally inquire about the food of the two palaces, and greet the queen mother in the morning and evening.
In this way, even Yao and Shun could not compare with prosperity, so why not eliminate disasters?


Chunk 12: 
original: 
如不留听于庶事，不论材而授位，殚天下之财以奉淫侈，匮万姓之力以从耳目，近谄谀之人而远公方，信谗贼之臣以诛忠良，贤俊失在岩穴，大臣怨于不以，虽无变异、社稷之忧也。
天下至大，万事至众，祖业至重，诚不可以佚豫为，不可以奢泰持也。
唯陛下忍无益之欲，以全众庶之命。
臣钦愚戆，言不足采。
其夏，上尽召直言之士诣白虎殿对策，策曰： 天地之道何贵？
王者之法何如？
《六经》之义何上？
人之行何先？
取人之术何以？
当世之治何务？
各以经对。
钦对曰： 臣闻天道贵信，地道贵贞；不信不贞，万物不生。
生，天地之所贵也。
王者承天地之所生，理而成之，昆虫草木靡不得其所。
translation: 
If you do not listen to common people, if you appoint officials regardless of their talents, if you use all the wealth in the world to indulge in prostitution and extravagance, if you use all the people's efforts to indulge the pleasures of the ears and eyes, if you let people who are close to flatter you but if you are far away, you will be honest and loyal, if you believe in slandering ministers and kill the loyal and good, if the wise men live in seclusion in the caves, and the ministers will complain that they are not used, even if there is no change, it will also be a worry for the country.
The world is great, all things are common, and ancestral heritage is of great importance. It is really not allowed to indulge in adultery and indulge in extravagant enjoyment.
I hope your majesty will tolerate useless desires in order to save the lives of the people.
The minister Du Qin is stupid and his words are not accepted.
In the summer, the emperor summoned all the outspoken people to the White Tiger Palace to countermeasures. The emperor asked: What is the most precious way of heaven and earth?
What is the king's method?
What is the highest meaning in the Six Classics?
What comes first in human behavior?
What is the art of employing people?
What is the urgent need to govern the country today?
Each uses classic answers.
Du Qin replied: "I have heard that belief in the way of heaven is precious, and righteousness is the most precious thing in the earth's way. If you don't believe in the righteousness, all things will not come into being."
Life is precious to heaven and earth.
The king inherits what is born from heaven and earth, and governs it. Insects, plants, and trees each find their own place.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
王者法天地，非仁无以广施，非义无以正身；克己就义，恕以及人，《六经》之所上也。
不孝，则事君不忠，莅官不敬，战陈无勇，朋友不信。
孔子曰： 孝无终始，而患不及者，未之有也。
孝，人行之所先也。
观本行于乡党，考功能于官职，达观其所举，富观其所予，穷观其所不为，乏观其所不取，近观其所为主，远观其所主。
孔子曰： 视其所以，观其所由，察其所安，人焉瘦哉？ 取人之术也。
殷因于夏尚质，周因于殷尚文，今汉家承周、秦之敝，宜抑文尚质，废奢长俭，表实去伪。
孔子曰 恶紫之夺朱 ，当世治之所务也。
translation: 
The king follows the example of heaven and earth. If he is not benevolent, he cannot be generous, and if he is unrighteous, he cannot be upright. He must restrain himself to obey righteousness, reflect on his own ambitions, and reach out to others. This is what the Six Classics advocate.
If you are not filial, you will not be loyal to your king, you will not be respectful as an official, you will not be brave in battle, and your friends will not trust you.
Confucius said: If you implement filial piety to the end, there is nothing to worry about not achieving morality.
Filial piety is the first virtue that people show.
Observe your original behavior in your hometown, and assess your ability to do things in official positions. Those in high positions should observe who they recommend, those who are rich should observe what they give, those who are poor should observe what they do not do, those who are needy should observe what they ask for, those who are close should observe what their entrusters do for themselves, and those who are distant should observe what they are entrusted to help others.
Confucius said: Look at who he uses, who he follows, and what he likes and dislikes, and you can know his good and evil without hiding anything. This is the art of knowing and employing people.
The Yin Dynasty admired simplicity because it inherited the Xia Dynasty, and the Zhou Dynasty admired elegance because it inherited the Yin Dynasty. Today, the Han Dynasty inherits the shortcomings of the Zhou and Qin Dynasties. We should limit literary elegance and advocate simplicity, abandon luxury and promote frugality, and commend honesty and eliminate hypocrisy.
Confucius said that aversion to the evil colors of mixed purples and the encroachment of pure colors is the most important task of governing the country in this world.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
臣窃有所忧，言之则拂心逆指，不言则渐日长，为祸不细，然小臣不敢废道而求从，违忠而耦意。
臣闻玩色无厌，必生好憎之心；好憎之心生，则爱宠偏于一人；爱宠偏于一人，则继嗣之路不广，而嫉妒之心兴矣。
如此，则匹妇之说，不可胜也。
唯陛下纯德普施，无欲是从，此则众庶咸说，继嗣日广，而海内长安。
万事之是非何足备言！
钦以前事病，赐帛罢，后为议郎，复以病免。
征诣大将军莫府，国家政谋，凤常与钦虑之。
数称达名士王骏、韦安世、王延世等，救解冯野王、王尊、胡常之罪过，及继功臣绝世，填抚四夷，当世善政，多出于钦者。
见凤专政泰重，戒之曰： 昔周公身有至圣之德，属有叔父之亲，而成王有独见之明，无信谗之听，然管、蔡流言而周公惧。
translation: 
The minister thinks that what he is worried about is that if he speaks out, he will be offended. If he does not speak out, his evil will will increase, which will lead to serious disasters. However, I dare not abandon the doctrine and seek obedience, and violate loyalty and conform to my personal will.
When a minister hears that he is insatiable with sex, he will have feelings of likes and dislikes; when feelings of likes and dislikes arise, his favor will be partial to one person; if his favor is partial to one person, his choice of heirs will be narrow, and jealousy will arise.
In this way, the pleasure of one wife cannot be satisfied.
I hope that your majesty will spread pure virtues and not indulge in your own desires. In this way, everyone will be happy, choose to follow a bright road, and have peace at home and abroad.
Why worry about the right and wrong of everything!
Du Qin fell ill because of his countermeasures and was given silk and was dismissed from office. He later became Yilang and was dismissed from office due to illness.
Recruited to the general shogunate, Wang Fengchang and Du Qin planned national political affairs together.
He repeatedly praised the sages Wang Jun, Wei Anshi, Wang Yanshi, etc., and rescued Feng Yewang, Wang Zun, and Hu Chang from their sins. He also continued to be a peerless hero and pacified the four peoples. The good governance in the world was mostly based on Du Qin's advice.
Seeing that Wang Feng's dictatorship was too heavy, he warned: In the past, Duke Zhou had the virtue of a great sage, and his family members were related to uncles. When he became a king, he had unique insights and was unfaithful to listen to slander. However, Guan and Cai spread rumors and Duke Zhou was afraid.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
穰侯，昭王之舅也，权重于秦，威震邻敌，有旦莫偃伏之爱，心不介然有间，然范雎起徒步，由异国，无雅信，开一朝之说，而穰侯就封。
及近者武安侯之见退，三事之迹，相去各数百岁，若合符节，甚不可不察。
愿将军由周公之谦惧，损穰侯之威，放武安之欲，毋使范雎之徒得间其说。
顷之，复日蚀，京兆尹王章上封事求见，果言凤专权蔽主之过，宜废勿用，以应天变。
于是天子感悟，召见章，与议，欲退凤。
凤甚忧惧，钦令凤上疏谢罪，乞骸骨，文指甚哀。
太后涕泣为不食。
上少而亲倚凤，亦不忍废，复起凤就位。
凤心惭，称病笃，欲遂退。
钦复说之曰： 将军深悼辅政十年，变异不已，故乞骸骨，归咎于身，刻己自责，至诚动众，愚知莫不感伤。
translation: 
Marquis Zhou was the uncle of King Zhao. He had the most power in the Qin State and was powerful in neighboring countries. He loved and teased King Zhao day and night, and had never harbored any dissatisfaction. However, Fan Ju was a commoner and came from a foreign country. There was no mutual trust. Once he became the prime minister, Marquis Zhou was sent back to the feudal state.
In modern times, Marquis Wu'an requested a fiefdom but was dismissed. The three incidents, each hundreds of years apart, seem very similar and cannot be ignored.
May the general be humble and respectful from the Duke of Zhou, undermine the prestige of Marquis Zhou, restrain Wu An's selfish desires, and prevent Fan Ju's followers from succeeding.
Soon after eating again, King Yin Zhang of Jingzhao wrote a letter asking for an audience. Sure enough, he said that Wang Feng had deceived the monarch with his exclusive power and should be abolished in order to cope with the changes in nature.
So the emperor realized this, summoned Wang Zhang, and discussed with Wang Zhang, hoping to prevent Wang Feng from retreating.
Wang Feng was very worried. Du Qin ordered Wang Feng to write a letter to apologize and beg for permission to return to his hometown. The meaning of the article was very sad.
The Queen Mother wept and refused to eat.
The emperor was young and relied heavily on Wang Feng, so he couldn't bear to depose him and let Wang Feng take his place.
Wang Feng felt ashamed, said she was seriously ill, and wanted to retreat immediately.
Du Qin also said: The general has been in charge for ten years and has changed constantly. Therefore, he seeks to return to his hometown, blames himself, and blames himself. It is sincere and touching, and everyone, regardless of fool or wisdom, will be sad.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
虽然，是无属之臣，执进退之分，絜其去就之节者耳，非主上所以待将军，非将军所以报主上也。
昔周公虽老，犹在京师，明不离成周，示不忘王室也。
仲山父异姓之臣，无亲于宣，就封于齐，犹叹息永怀，宿夜徘徊，不忍远去，况将军之于主上，主上之与将军哉！
夫欲天下治安变异之意，莫有将军，主上照然知之，故攀援不遣，《书》称 公毋困我！
唯将军不为四国流言自疑于成王，以固至忠。
凤复起视事。
上令尚书劾奏京兆尹章，章死诏狱。
语在《元后传》。
章既死，众庶冤之，以讥朝廷。
钦欲救其过，复说凤曰： 京兆尹章所坐事密，吏民见章素好言事，以为不坐官职，疑其以日蚀见对有所言也。
假令章内有所犯，虽陷正法，事不暴扬，自京师不晓，况于远方。
恐天下不知章实有罪，而以为坐言事也。
translation: 
Although he was criticized, Wang Zhang was a minister without foundation. He only grasped the difference between advance and retreat, and took it as a matter of course. This was not the Lord's intention towards the general, nor was it the general's way of repaying the Lord.
In the past, although the Duke of Zhou was old, he still stayed in the capital, showing that he would never leave Zhou Dynasty and that he would never forget the royal family.
A minister with a different surname from Zhongshan's father, who had no relation to King Xuan and was granted the title of Qi, still sighs and misses him forever. He wanders around day and night and cannot bear to go far away. What's more, the general is to the lord, and the lord is to the general!
The Lord is very clear that he wants to change the order of the world, and there is no one who is more powerful than the general, so he hesitates. The "Book" says: Sir, don't trap me!
It's about King Cheng not allowing Duke Zhou to leave. I hope the general will not doubt himself because of the rumors, and will be firm in his heart of loyalty.
Wang Fengfu took over.
The emperor ordered the minister to impeach Wang Zhang of Jingzhao Yin, and Wang Zhang died in Shao Prison.
The matter is in "The Biography of Empress Yuan".
Wang Zhang was dead, and the people thought he had been wronged and ridiculed the court.
Du Qin wanted to make amends for his mistake and advised Wang Feng: The matter of Wang Zhang breaking the law in Jingzhao was very confidential. Seeing that Wang Zhang always spoke for the people, the officials thought that he would not break the law and be dismissed from office. They suspected that the solar eclipse was related to Wang Feng and reported it to the emperor.
If Wang Zhang has other inside information and commits a crime, he will be punished. If the matter is not revealed, no one will know about it in the capital, let alone in remote places.
I am afraid that the world does not know that Wang Zhang is really guilty, but thinks that he committed a crime because of his words in the letter.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
如是，塞争引之原，损宽明之德。
钦愚以为宜因章事举直言极谏，并见郎从官展尽其章，加于往前，以明示四方，使天下咸知主上圣明，不以言罪下也。
若此，则流言消释，疑惑著明。
凤白行其策。
钦之补过将美，皆此类也。
优游不仕，以寿终。
钦子及昆弟支属至二千石者且十人。
钦兄缓前免太常，以列侯奉朝请，成帝时乃薨，子业嗣。
业有材能，以列侯选，复为太常。
数言得失，不事权贵，与丞相翟方进、卫尉定陵侯淳于长不平。
后业坐法免官，复为函谷关都尉。
会定陵侯长有罪，当就国，长舅红阳侯立与业书曰： 诚哀老姊垂白，随无状子出关，愿勿复用前事相侵。
translation: 
In this way, the real reasons for the disputes and remonstrances are covered up, and the magnanimous and wise virtues of Ya are undermined.
Du Qin thought that he should make a blunt remonstrance on Wang Zhang's matter, and summoned his subordinates to clarify his intentions, plus the incident of the solar eclipse reported before, so as to show his true intention to all parties and let everyone in the world know that the Lord is a sage and does not condemn people based on his words.
In this way, rumors will be dispelled and doubts will be resolved.
Wang Feng stated Du Qin's strategy to the emperor.
That's what Du Qin did to help the United States.
Du Qin Youyou did not become an official and died of his old age.
Du Qinzi and his brothers were appointed as branch officers to nearly ten people of two thousand stones.
Du Huan, Du Qin's brother, had previously been exempted from Taichang and went to court as a marquis to pay his respects. He died when he became emperor, and his son Du Ye inherited the marquis title.
Du Ye was talented and was elected as an official as a prince, and he was appointed as Taichang.
He wrote many times about the gains and losses of current affairs, and did not work for the powerful. He was at odds with Prime Minister Zhai Fangjin and Weiwei Dinglinghou Chunyu.
Later, Du Ye was dismissed from office for breaking the law and was appointed as the captain of Hangu Pass.
When Chun Yuchang, the Marquis of Dingling, was found guilty and should return to the feudal state, his uncle Hongyang Houli wrote to Du Ye, saying: "It is really painful that my elder sister, with her gray hair drooping, is leaving the seclusion with her unworthy son. I hope she will not bully the Marquis of Dingling with her past feud."


Chunk 18: 
original: 
定陵侯既出关，伏罪复发，下洛阳狱。
丞相史搜得红阳侯书，奏业听请，不敬，坐免就国。
其春，丞相方进薨，业上书言： 方进本与长深结厚，更相称荐，长陷大恶，独得不坐，苟欲障塞前过，不为陛下广持平例，又无恐惧之心，反因时信其邪辟，报睚眦怨。
故事，大逆朋友坐免官，无归故郡者，今坐长者归故郡，已深一等；红阳侯立坐子受长货赂故就国耳，非大逆也，而方进复奏立党友后将军朱博、巨鹿太守孙宏、故少府陈咸，皆免官，归咸故郡。
刑罚无平，在方进之笔端，众庶莫不疑惑，皆言孙宏不与红阳侯相爱。
宏前为中丞时，方进为御史大夫，举掾隆可侍御史，宏奉隆前奉使欺谩，不宜执法近侍，方进以此怨宏。
又方进为京兆尹时，陈咸为少府，在九卿高弟，陛下所自知也。
方进素与司直师丹相善，临御史大夫缺，使丹奏咸为奸利，请案验，卒不能有所得，而方进果自得御史大夫。
为丞相，即时诋欺，奏免咸，复因红阳侯事归咸故郡。
众人皆言国家假方进权太甚。
案师丹行能无异，及光禄勋许商被病残人，皆但以附从方进，尝获尊官。
丹前亲荐邑子丞相史能使巫下神，为国求福，几获大利。
translation: 
After Dinglinghou was released from prison, the crimes he had committed were discovered again and he was imprisoned in Luoyang Prison.
Prime Minister Shi found the letter from Marquis Hongyang and reported to Du Ye that he had violated the law of disrespect by accepting the request and was exempted from the feudal state.
In the spring, Prime Minister Fang Jin passed away, and Du Ye wrote a letter saying: Fang Jin originally had a deep friendship with Chun Yuchang, and they praised and recommended each other. Chun Yuchang committed a serious crime, but the prime minister was not implicated. If he wanted to prevent the exposure of his previous mistakes, he would not apply the law of justice to your majesty, and he would not be afraid.
The system stipulates that if a friend commits treason and is dismissed from office, he does not need to return to his hometown. Today, because Chun Yuchang committed a crime and returned to his hometown, it was already a serious matter; because his son was bribed by Chun Yuchang and committed a crime, Hongyanghou Wangli sent him back to the feudal country.
The punishment was so unfair, and everyone was confused by Fang Jin's writing, saying that Sun Hong was not in harmony with Hongyang Marquis.
Sun Hong once served as Zhongcheng, and Fang Jin became the imperial censor. He promoted the senior official Long Ke to serve as the censor. Sun Hong had been deceived by the envoy before and was not suitable for law enforcement. Fang Jin resented Sun Hong for this.
Also, when Fang Jin was appointed as Jingzhao Yin, Chen Xian was appointed as the Shaofu and held the high position of Jiu Qing. Your Majesty is aware of this.
Fang Jin had always been friendly with Si Zhi Shidan. When the imperial censorship was vacant, he asked Shidan to report that Chen Xian had treacherous interests and requested a review. However, no problem was found. Fang Jin took the opportunity to get the position of censorial doctor.
As prime minister, he immediately slandered Chen Xian and dismissed him as official. He also sent Chen Xian back to his hometown because of the Hongyang Marquis incident.
Everyone said that the power granted to Fang Jin by the state was too great.
In fact, Shi Dan has no ability, and Guang Luxun and Xu Shang are disabled and sick, so they all used the Afu method to get high rankings.
Shi Dan had previously recommended Prime Minister Shi, a fellow countryman, to be able to make wizards go to the gods to seek blessings for the country and gain great profits.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
幸赖陛下至明，遣使者毛莫如先考验，卒得其奸，皆坐死。
假令丹知而白之，此诬罔罪也；不知而白之，是背经术惑左道也：二者皆在大辟，重于朱博、孙宏、陈咸所坐。
方进终不举白，专作威福，阿党所厚，排挤英俊，托公报私，横厉无所畏忌，欲以熏轑天下。
天下莫不望风而靡，自尚书近臣皆结舌杜口，骨肉亲属莫不股栗。
威权泰盛而不忠信，非所以安国家也。
今闻方进卒病死，不以尉示天下，反复赏赐厚葬，唯陛下深思往事，以戒来今。
会成帝崩，哀帝即位，业复上书言： 王氏世权日久，朝无骨鲠之臣，宗室诸侯微弱，与系囚无异，自佐史以上至于大吏皆权臣之党。
曲阳侯根前为三公辅政，知赵昭仪杀皇子，不辄白奏，反与赵氏比周，恣意妄行，谮诉故许后，被加以非罪，诛破诸许族，败元帝外家。
内嫉妒同产兄姊红阳侯立及淳于氏，皆老被放弃。
新喋血京师，威权可畏。
translation: 
Fortunately, His Majesty was aware of the situation and sent envoy Mao Moru to test him beforehand. Finally, he was exposed and executed.
If Shi Dan recommends something with knowledge, this is a false accusation; if he recommends something without knowing it, it is a departure from the classics and being deceived by heresy. Both of them committed the crime of beheading, which was much more serious than the crimes committed by Zhu Bo, Sun Hong, and Chen Xian.
Fang Jin never made a report, he only focused on power, favored party members, excluded handsome people, used public affairs to seek personal gain, was ruthless and unscrupulous, and wanted to poison the world.
Everyone in the world looked at the wind and stood still. From the minister to the minister, all the ministers were dumbfounded, and all the relatives of the flesh and blood trembled.
Too much authority without loyalty will not stabilize the country.
Now that I heard that Fang Jin died of a sudden illness, instead of comforting the world, he was given a generous burial. I hope your majesty will think deeply about the past and warn the future.
When Emperor Cheng died and Emperor Ai ascended the throne, Du Ye wrote another letter saying: The Wang family has been in power for too long, and there are no honest and upright ministers in the court.
Prince Quyanghou was an assistant to the three princes in the past. When he knew that Zhao Zhaoyi had killed the prince, he did not report it immediately. Instead, he became friends with the Zhao family and acted arbitrarily. He framed Xu's wife and committed crimes. He killed the Xu family and destroyed the Yuan Emperor's family.
I was jealous of my mother, brother, and sister Hongyanghou Wangli and Chunyu, who all gave up when they were old.
Recently, there has been bloodshed in the capital, and the authority is formidable.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
高阳侯薛宣有不养母之名，安昌侯张禹奸人之雄，惑乱朝廷，使先帝负谤于海内，尤不可不慎。
陛下初即位，谦让未皇，孤独特立，莫可据杖，权臣易世，意若探汤。
宜蚤以义割恩，安百姓心。
窃见朱博忠信勇猛，材略不世出，诚国家雄俊之宝臣也，宜征博置左右，以填天下。
此人在朝，则陛下可高枕而卧矣。
昔诸吕欲危刘氏，赖有高祖遗臣周勃、陈平尚存，不者，几为奸臣笑。
业又言宜为恭王立庙京师，以章孝道。
时，高昌侯董宏亦言宜尊帝母定陶王丁后为帝太后。
大司空师丹等劾宏误朝不道，坐免为庶人，业复上书讼宏。
前后所言皆合指施行，朱博果见拔用。
业由是征，复为太常。
岁余，左迁上党都尉。
translation: 
Xue Xuan, the Marquis of Gaoyang, was known as an unnurturing mother, and Zhang Yu, the Marquis of Anchang, was the leader of the traitors. They confuse the court and make the late emperor bear the name of domestic slander. We must not be careless.
When Your Majesty first came to the throne, he had no time to be humble. He was alone and independent, with no support to rely on. The changes in power officials were like testing boiling water with his hands.
We should show kindness with great righteousness as early as possible to comfort the hearts of the people.
The minister privately saw that Zhu Bo was loyal, brave, and talented, which was rarely seen in modern times. He was actually a great and treasured minister of the country. He was called upon to serve Zhu Bo and placed him on his left and right to control the world.
With this person in court, Your Majesty can sit back and relax.
In the past, when Zhu Lu wanted to harm the Liu family, it was only because Zhou Bo and Chen Ping were still there, otherwise they would have been ridiculed by the treacherous ministers.
Du Ye also said that a temple should be built in the capital for Prince Gong to show his filial piety.
At that time, Dong Hong, the Marquis of Gaochang, also said that the emperor's mother should be respected and Queen Tao Ding should be honored as the emperor's empress dowager.
Grand Sikong Shidan and others impeached Dong Hong for his wrongdoing in the government, so he was convicted and exempted from being a commoner. Du Ye wrote a letter to defend Dong Hong.
What Du Ye said before and after was in line with his purpose and was carried out, and Zhu Bo was indeed promoted and reused.
Du Ye was thus recruited and appointed as Taichang.
After more than a year, he was demoted to captain of Shangdang.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
会司隶奏业为太常选举不实，业坐免官，复就国。
哀帝崩，王莽秉政，诸前议立庙尊号者皆免，徙合浦。
业以前罢黜，故见阔略，忧恐，发病死。
业成帝初尚帝妹颍邑公主，主无子，薨，业家上书求还京师与主合葬，不许，而赐谥曰荒侯，传子至孙绝。
初，杜周武帝时徙茂陵，至延年徙杜陵云。
赞曰：张汤、杜周并起文墨小吏，致位三公，列于酷吏。
而俱有良子，德器自过，爵位尊显，继世立朝，相与提衡，至于建武，杜氏爵乃独绝，迹其福祚、元功儒林之后莫能及也。
自谓唐杜苗裔，岂其然乎？
translation: 
When the official reported that Du Ye's appointment as Taichang was false, Du Ye committed a crime and was dismissed from office, and returned to the feudal state.
When Emperor Ai died and Wang Mang came to power, all those who had proposed temple titles were dismissed from office and moved to Hepu.
Du Ye had been deposed before, so he treated him leniently, but due to fear, he fell ill and died.
In his early years as emperor, Du Ye married the emperor's sister, Princess Yingyi, but the princess died without any children. Du Ye's family wrote a letter requesting that the coffin be returned to the capital to be buried with the princess, but the court did not allow it. Instead, Mi was given the title of Huanghou, and his descendants passed on to his grandson Juefeng.
At first, Du Zhou moved to Maoling during the reign of Emperor Wu, and then moved to Duling in Yannian.
The praise said: Zhang Tang and Du Zhou both started as Wen Mo Xiaoli, and advanced to San Gong, and were classified as cool officials.
However, they all have virtuous sons, whose virtues and talents are better than those of their fathers. They have noble titles, inherit their father's generation, and serve as officials in the court. The two families are equally matched. It was not until the end of Han Dynasty that the title of Du family was discontinued. Looking at their fortune traces, no one can compare with them after the great heroes and scholars.
He claims to be a descendant of the Miao clan of Tang Dynasty in the Zhou Dynasty. Is this true?


Chunk 22: 
original: 
及钦浮沉当世，好谋而成，以建始之初深陈女戒，终如其言，庶几乎《关雎》之见微，非夫浮华博习之徒所能规也。
业因势而抵陒，称朱博，毁师丹，爱憎之议可不畏哉！
translation: 
When Du Qin was ups and downs in the world, he was fond of planning and succeeding, and he made a profound statement about the female ring at the beginning of the founding. The facts finally confirmed his words. "Guan Ju" is almost subtle, and it is not something that can be seen by those who are pompous and complicated but not expert.
Du Ye took advantage of the situation and criticized others. He actually praised Zhu Bo and slandered Shi Dan. What a terrible argument between love and hate!


