Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 4, 4, 5, 5, 6, 6, 7, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 11, 11, 12, 13, 11, 15, 15, 15, 15, 16, 17, 9, 20, 21]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
武帝下普通元年春正月乙亥朔，改元，大赦天下。赐文武劳位，孝悌力田爵一级，尤贫之家，勿收常调，鳏寡孤独，并加赡恤。
丙子，日有蚀之。
己卯，以司徒临川王宏为太尉、扬州刺史，安右将军、监扬州萧景为安西将军、郢州刺史。
尚书左仆射王暕以母忧去职，金紫光禄大夫王份为尚书左仆射。
庚子，扶南、高丽国各遣使献方物。
二月壬子，老人星见。
癸丑，以高丽王世子安为宁东将军、高丽王。
三月丙戌，滑国遣使献方物。
夏四月甲午，河南王遣使献方物。
六月丁未，以护军将军韦睿为车骑将军。
秋七月己卯，江、淮、海并溢。
辛卯，以信威将军邵陵王纶为江州刺史。
八月庚戌，老人星见。
甲子，新除车骑将军韦睿卒。
九月乙亥，有星晨见东方，光烂如火。
冬十月辛亥，以宣惠将军长沙王深业为护军将军。
辛酉，以丹阳尹晋安王纲为平西将军、益州刺史。
二年春正月甲戌，以南徐州刺史豫章王综为镇右将军。
新除益州刺史晋安王纲改为徐州刺史。
辛巳，舆驾亲祠南郊。
诏曰： 春司御气，虔恭报祀，陶匏克诚，苍璧礼备，思随乾覆，布兹亭育。
凡民有单老孤稚，不能自存，主者郡县咸加收养，赡给衣食，每令周足，以终其身。
又于京师置孤独园，孤幼有归，华发不匮。
若终年命，厚加料理。
尤穷之家，勿收租赋。
戊子，大赦天下。
二月辛丑，舆驾亲祠明堂。
三月庚寅，大雪，平地三尺。
夏四月乙卯，改作南北郊。
translation: 
On the first day of the first lunar month in the spring of the first year of the ordinary year, the year was changed, and the whole country was granted amnesty. Civil and military officials were given grades for their achievements, and agricultural officials who were filial and loyal to the fields were given a rank of nobility. Extraordinarily poor families were not levied normal taxes, and the widows, widowers, and lonely people were all provided with assistance and compensation.
Bingzi, a solar eclipse occurs.
In Ji Mao, Xiao Hong, king of Situ Linchuan, was appointed as Taiwei and the governor of Yangzhou. Xiao Jing, the general of Anyou and the governor of Yangzhou, was appointed as the general of Anxi and the governor of Yingzhou.
When Shangshu Zuopushe Wang Lai resigned due to his mother's death, Jin Ziguanglu's doctor Wang Feng took over as Shangshu Zuopushe.
Gengzi, Funan and Goryeo each sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the second month of Renzi, the star Canopus appeared.
Guichou appointed Zhixuan, the crown prince of the King of Korea, as General Ningshu and Zhiwuwang.
In March Bing and Wu, Gao Xi sent an envoy to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the fourth month of summer, the king of Henan sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
At the end of June, Tong He, the guard general, was appointed as the chariot and cavalry general.
At the end of the seventh month of autumn, the Yangtze River, Huaihe River, and ocean all rose and overflowed their embankments.
In Xinmao, Xiao Lun, the king of Shaoling, the general of Xinwei, was appointed as the governor of Jiangzhou.
In August Gengxu, the star Canopus appeared.
In Jiazi, the new chariot and cavalry general Wei Tiao passed away.
In the ninth month of Yihai, a star appeared in the east in the early morning, shining brightly like a flame.
In the winter of October 1911, General Xuanhui of Changsha and Wang Shenye of Changsha were appointed as generals of the army.
Xin You appointed Xiao Gang, king of Yin Jin'an in Danyang, as General Pingxi and governor of Yizhou.
In the first month of the second year of Jiaxu, Xiao Zong, the governor of South Xuzhou and the king of Yuzhang, was appointed as the general of Zhenyou.
The new governor of Yizhou, King Xiao Gang of Jin'an, was appointed governor of Xuzhou.
Xin Si, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs.
Shaoling said: The Chun Temple serves the solar terms and offers sacrifices respectfully. The pottery vessels are natural and honest, the black jade bis are complete in etiquette, and the care is based on the blessings of heaven's protection and care.
The competent authorities and counties will take care of those who are old and lonely, or those who are young and have lost their parents, and will provide food and clothing relief to them to maintain their livelihood.
In addition, a lonely garden was set up in the capital so that orphans would have a home and the elderly would not be in need.
If you die, bury him with dignity.
For particularly poor families, land tenant surveys are not levied.
Wuzi, amnesty to the world.
In the second month of Xinchou, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to Mingtang.
In March Gengyin, it snowed heavily, and the snow was three feet deep on the flat ground.
In the fourth month of summer, on Yi Mao, the altar in the southern and northern suburbs was rebuilt.
summary:
In the first year of the ordinary year, the reign name was changed, and a general amnesty was granted. Civil and military officials were rewarded based on their achievements, and agricultural officials who were filial and loyal were given noble ranks. Extremely poor families were exempted from taxes, and widows, widowers, and orphans received assistance. A solar eclipse occurred. Xiao Hong, King of Linchuan, was appointed Taiwei and governor of Yangzhou, while Xiao Jing was reassigned to Yingzhou. Wang Lai resigned due to his mother's death, and Wang Feng succeeded him. Funan and Goryeo sent tribute. The star Canopus appeared. The crown prince of Korea was appointed General Ningshu. Gao Xi sent tribute. The King of Henan sent tribute. Tong He was appointed chariot and cavalry general. The Yangtze, Huai, and ocean waters overflowed. Xiao Lun was appointed governor of Jiangzhou. Canopus appeared again. Wei Tiao died. A bright star appeared in the east. Xiao Gang was appointed governor of Yizhou.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
丙辰，诏曰： 夫钦若昊天，历象无违。躬执耒耜，尽力致敬，上协星鸟，俯训民时，平秩东作，义不在南。
前代因袭，有乖礼制，可于震方，简求沃野，具兹千亩，庶允旧章。
五月癸卯，琬琰殿火，延烧后宫屋三千间。
丁巳，诏曰： 王公卿士，今拜表贺瑞，虽则百辟体国之诚，朕怀良有多愧。
若其泽漏川泉，仁被动植，气调玉烛，治致太平，爰降嘉祥，可无惭德；而政道多缺，淳化未凝，何以仰叶辰和，远臻冥贶？
此乃更彰寡薄，重增其尤。
自今可停贺瑞。
六月丁卯，信威将军、义州刺史文僧明以州叛入于魏。
秋七月丁酉，假大匠卿裴邃节，督众军北讨。
甲寅，老人星见。
魏荆州刺史桓叔兴帅众降。
八月丁亥，始平郡中石鼓村地自开成井，方六尺六寸，深三十二丈。
冬十一月，百济、新罗国各遣使献方物。
十二月戊辰，以镇东大将军百济王馀隆为宁东大将军。
三年春正月庚子，以尚书令袁昂为中书监，吴郡太守王暕为尚书左仆射，尚书左仆射王份为右光禄大夫。
庚戌，京师地震。
己未，以宣毅将军庐陵王续为雍州刺史。
三月乙卯，巴陵王萧屏薨。
夏四月丁卯，汝阴王刘端薨。
五月壬辰朔，日有蚀之，既。
癸巳，赦天下。并班下四方，民所疾苦，咸即以闻，公卿百僚各上封事，连率郡国举贤良、方正、直言之士。
秋八月辛酉，作二郊及籍田并毕，班赐工匠各有差。
甲子，老人星见。
婆利、白题国各遣使献方物。
冬十月丙子，加中书监袁昂中卫将军。
十一月甲午，抚军将军、开府仪同三司、领军将军始兴王憺薨。
translation: 
Bingchen, the edict said: "Respect and obey God, the sky will not be chaotic, personally hold the farm tools, work hard to show respect, go up and harmonize with the stars, and go down to teach the people to follow the seasons, distinguish the order of spring plowing, and it is not in the south according to the law."
The previous generations followed the rules and violated the etiquette. In the east, fertile fields were selected and established, hoping to comply with the old regulations.
On Guimao in the fifth month, a fire broke out in the Wanyan Palace and spread to burn down 3,000 houses in the harem.
Ding Si, the edict said: Princes, princes and ministers, I am now sending a watch and seal to celebrate the auspiciousness. Although it is the sincerity of all the officials to care for the country, I really feel a lot of shame in my heart.
If grace spreads all over rivers and mountains, benevolence covers animals and plants, the climate is harmonious in the four seasons, politics is peaceful, and auspiciousness descends from heaven, there is no need to feel ashamed. However, if there are many flaws in governance and simple education has not been formed, how can we reach out to the stars and receive blessings from the gods from afar?
This further shows my meager virtues and adds to my faults.
You can stop celebrating auspiciousness from now on.
In the sixth month of Ding Mao, General Xinwei and Yizhou Governor Wen Sengming betrayed the state and defected to Wei.
In the seventh month of Autumn, Dingyou gave the great craftsman Pei Sui Fu Jie to command all the armies to attack the north.
In Jiayin, Canopus appeared.
Huan Shuxing, the governor of Jingzhou in Wei State, led his troops to surrender.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, the land in Shigu Village, Zhongshiping County, split open and turned into a well, which was six feet six inches square and thirty-two feet deep.
In November of winter, Baekje and Silla each sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
On the 10th day of the 10th century, the general Zhenshu, King Yulong of Baekje, was appointed as the general Ningshu.
In the spring of the third year of the first lunar month, Gengzi appointed Shangshu Ling Yuan Ang as the Superintendent of Zhongshu, Wang Chen, the prefect of Wu County, as Shangshu Zuopushe, and Shangshu Zuopushe Wang Fen as Youguanglu doctor.
Gengxu, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
Before long, he appointed General Xuanyi and Prince Xiao Xu of Luling as the governor of Yongzhou.
On Yimao in March, Xiao Ping, the king of Baling, passed away.
On Ding Mao, the fourth month of summer, Liu Duan, king of Ruyin, passed away.
On the first day of the fifth lunar month, a solar eclipse occurs, which is a total eclipse.
In Guisi, a general amnesty was issued to the whole country, and orders were issued to all directions. All the sufferings of the people were immediately reported to the public. The ministers and ministers each kept their seals to report, and the prime ministers of the prefectures and states recommended those who were virtuous, upright, and dared to speak the truth.
In Autumn and August, Xinyou, the construction of the altar in the southern and northern suburbs and the fields used for farming by the emperor were completed, and the craftsmen were rewarded in varying amounts.
Jiazi, Canopus appeared.
The countries of Poli and Baiti each sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the tenth month of winter, Yuan Ang was awarded the title of General of the Central Guard.
In November, during the Sino-Japanese War, General Fujun, Kaifu Yitong Sansi, and leading general Shixing Wang Xiao Dan passed away.
summary:
In the second year, Xiao Zong was appointed general. The emperor sacrificed to the southern suburbs, emphasizing proper rituals and care for the elderly and orphans. A lonely garden was established in the capital. The emperor sacrificed to Mingtang. Heavy snow fell. The southern and northern suburban altars were rebuilt. An edict stressed farming and seasonal order. A fire in the Wanyan Palace burned 3,000 houses. The emperor ordered an end to celebrating auspicious omens. Wen Sengming defected to Wei. Pei Sui was sent to attack the north. Canopus appeared. Huan Shuxing of Wei surrendered. A well formed in Shigu Village. Baekje and Silla sent tribute. The King of Baekje was appointed General Ningshu. In the third year, Yuan Ang was appointed Superintendent of Zhongshu. An earthquake occurred in the capital. Xiao Xu was appointed governor of Yongzhou. Xiao Ping and Liu Duan died. A total solar eclipse occurred. A general amnesty was declared, and virtuous people were sought. The suburban altars and imperial fields were completed. Canopus appeared. Poli and Baiti sent tribute. Yuan Ang was awarded a title. Xiao Dan died. Xiao Yuanzao was appointed leading general.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
辛丑，以太子詹事萧渊藻为领军将军。
四年春正月辛卯，舆驾亲祠南郊，大赦天下。应诸穷疾，咸加赈恤，并班下四方，时理狱讼。
丙午，舆驾亲祠明堂。
二月庚午，老人星见。
乙亥，躬耕籍田。
诏曰： 夫耕籍之义大矣哉！
粢盛由之而兴，礼节因之以著，古者哲王咸用此作。
眷言八政，致兹千亩，公卿百辟，恪恭其仪，九推毕礼，馨香靡替。
兼以风云叶律，气象光华，属览休辰，思加奖劝。
可班下远近，广辟良畴，公私畎亩，务尽地利。
若欲附农，而粮种有乏，亦加贷恤，每使优遍。
孝悌力田赐爵一级。
预耕之司，克日劳酒。
三月壬寅，以镇右将军豫章王综为平北将军、南兗州刺史。
六月乙丑，分益州置信州，分交州置爱州，分广州置成州、南定州、合州、建州，分霍州置义州。
秋八月丁卯，老人星见。
冬十月庚午，以中书监、中卫将军袁昂为尚书令，即本号开府仪同三司。
己卯，护军将军昌义之卒。
十一月癸未朔，日有蚀之。
太白昼见。
甲辰，尚书左仆射王暕卒。
十二月戊午，始铸铁钱。
狼牙脩国遣使献方物。
五年春正月，以左光禄大夫、开府仪同三司南平王伟为镇卫大将军，改领右光禄大夫，仪同三司如故。
征西将军、开府仪同三司、荆州刺史鄱阳王恢进号骠骑大将军。
太府卿夏侯亶为中护军。
右光禄大夫王份为左光禄大夫，加特进。
辛卯，平北将军、南兗州刺史豫章王综进号镇北将军。
平西将军、雍州刺史晋安王纲进号安北将军。
二月庚午，特进、左光禄大夫王份卒。
丁丑，老人星见。
三月甲戌，分扬州、江州置东扬州。
translation: 
Xin Chou appointed Prince Zhan Shi Xiao Yuanzao as the leading general.
In the spring of the fourth year of the first lunar month, Xin Mao, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs and granted amnesty to the world. All the poor and sick were provided with relief and compensation, and he issued orders to all directions to deal with cases and lawsuits in a timely manner.
On Bingwu, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to Mingtang.
On Gengwu in February, the star Canopus appeared.
In Yihai, the emperor personally cultivated the fields.
The edict said: Cultivating the fields is of great significance!
Sacrifices were produced from this, etiquette became prominent from this, and all the wise kings of ancient times prospered from this.
Reviewing the eight types of political affairs, carrying out land cultivation, ministering to hundreds of officials, respectfully performing etiquette, the etiquette of removing soil nine times is completed, and sacrifices continue.
In addition, the weather is good and the weather is changing. It coincides with seeing the beautiful moment, thinking about it and rewarding it.
It can be promulgated in various places to widely open up fertile land, public and private land, and make sure to fully reap the benefits of the land.
If there are those who want to return to farming but lack food and seeds, they will also be given loans and compensation, making sure they are generous and considerate.
The agricultural officer of Ren Xiaoti Litian was given a first-level title.
Relevant officials involved in farming selected a time to hold a banquet to express their condolences.
In the third month of Renyin, Xiao Zong, the king of Yuzhang, the general who Zhenyou, was appointed as the general of Pingbei and the governor of Yanzhou in the south.
In June Yichou, Yizhou was divided to form Xinzhou, Jiaozhou was divided to form Aizhou, Guangzhou was divided to form Chengzhou, Nandingzhou, Hezhou, and Jianzhou, and Huozhou was divided to form Yizhou.
In Autumn and August, Ding Mao, the star Canopus appears.
On Gengwu in the tenth month of winter, Yuan Ang, the eunuch of the Zhongshu and the general of the Zhongwei, was appointed as Shangshuling.
On Ji Mao, the guard general Chang Yi died.
On the first day of November, Guiwei, a solar eclipse occurs.
Taibai appears during the day.
On the day of Jiachen, Shangshu Zuopushe and Wang Chen passed away.
On Wuwu day of the twelfth lunar month, iron coins began to be minted.
Langya Xiuguo sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the first month of the spring of the fifth year, Dr. Zuo Guanglu and Nanping Wang Xiaowei of Kaifu Yitong Sansi were appointed as generals of the Zhenwei. They were changed to Dr. You Guanglu and Yitong Sansi remained as before.
General Zhengxi, Kaifu Yitong Sansi, Jingzhou Governor Poyang King Xiao Hui was promoted to General of Hussars.
Xia Houyi, the Taifu Qing, served as the central guard.
Wang Feng, the doctor of Youguanglu, served as the doctor of Zuoguanglu, and was awarded special promotion.
In Xinmao, Xiao Zong, the general of Pingbei and the governor of southern Yanzhou, Yuzhang Wang, was promoted to the title of general of Zhenbei.
General Pingxi and the governor of Yongzhou, Xiao Gang, King of Jin'an, was promoted to General Anbei.
On the Gengwu day of February, Wang Fen, the doctor of Te Jin and Zuo Guanglu, passed away.
Ding Chou. Canopus appears.
In the third month of the third month of the year, Jiawu, the Han Dynasty was divided and the Liao Dynasty was established in Yangzhou.
summary:
In the fourth year, the emperor sacrificed to the southern suburbs and granted amnesty. Canopus appeared. The emperor cultivated fields, issuing an edict on the importance of farming. Xiao Zong was appointed general. New provinces were established. Canopus appeared. Yuan Ang was appointed Shangshuling. Chang Yi died. A solar eclipse occurred. Wang Chen died. Iron coins were minted. Langya Xiuguo sent tribute.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
夏四月乙未，以云麾将军南康王绩为江州刺史。
六月乙酉，龙斗于曲阿王陂，因西行至建陵城。
所经处树木倒折，开地数十丈。
戊子，以会稽太守武陵王纪为东扬州刺史。
庚子，以员外散骑常侍元树为平北将军、北青、兗二州刺史，率众北伐。
秋七月辛未，赐北讨义客位一阶。
八月庚寅，徐州刺史成景隽克魏童栈。
九月戊申，又克睢陵城。
戊午，北兗州刺史赵景悦围荆山。
壬戌，宣毅将军裴邃袭寿阳，入罗城，弗克。
冬十月戊寅，裴邃、元树攻魏建陵城，破之。
辛巳，又破曲木。
扫虏将军彭宝孙克琅邪。
甲申，又克檀丘城。
辛卯，裴邃破狄城。
丙申，又克甓城，遂进屯黎浆。
壬寅，魏东海太守韦敬欣以司吾城降。
定远将军太守曹世宗破魏曲阳城。
甲辰，又克秦墟。
魏郿、潘溪守悉皆弃城走。
十一月丙辰，彭宝孙克东莞城。
壬戌，裴邃攻寿阳之安城，克之。丙寅，魏马头、安城并来降。
十二月戊寅，魏荆山城降。
乙巳，武勇将军李国兴攻平静关，克之。
辛丑，信威长史杨法乾攻武阳关；壬寅，攻岘关：并克之。
六年春正月丙午，安北将军晋安王纲遣长史柳津破魏南乡郡，司马董当门破魏晋城。
庚戌，又破马圈、彫阳二城。
辛亥，舆驾亲祠南郊，大赦天下。
庚申，魏镇东将军、徐州刺史元法僧以彭城内附。
己巳，雍州前军克魏新蔡郡。
诏曰： 庙谟已定，王略方举。
侍中、领军将军西昌侯渊藻，可便亲戎，以前启行；镇北将军、南兗州刺史豫章王综董驭雄桀，风驰次迈；其余众军，计日差遣，初中后师，善得严办。
朕当六军云动，龙舟济江。
癸酉，克魏郑城。
甲戌，以魏镇东将军、徐州刺史元法僧为司空。
二月丁丑，老人星见。
庚辰，南徐州刺史庐陵王续还朝，禀承戎略。
乙未，赵景悦下魏龙亢城。
translation: 
At the end of April in the Xia Dynasty, General Yunhui and Nankang Wang Xiao Ji were appointed as the governor of Jiangzhou.
In the sixth month of Yiyou, the dragons fought at Wangpi in Qu'a, and then walked west to Jianling City.
Wherever it passed, trees fell to the ground and broke, and the ground cracked dozens of feet.
Wuzi. Xiao Ji, Prince of Wuling, the prefect of Kuaiji, was appointed as the governor of Shu Yangzhou.
Gengzi appointed Yuan Shu, a regular servant of Wai Sanqi, as general of Pingbei and governor of Beiqing and Yanzhou, and led the army to conquer the north.
At the end of the seventh month of autumn, the foreign righteous soldiers who went north to conquer were rewarded with the first-level official rank.
In August Gengyin, Xuzhou governor Cheng Jingjun captured Wei Tongcheng.
In September Wushen, Juzuoqiu was conquered again.
On Wuwu day, Sister Jicha, the governor of Zhao Tomuji, surrounded Peishan.
In Renxu, General Xuanyi attacked Juchang in the tomb and entered the outer city, but failed to capture it.
In the tenth month of winter, Pei Sui and Yuan Shu attacked Jianling City of Wei State and captured it.
Xin Si captured Qumu again.
General Peng Shisun conquered Langye.
Jiashen also captured Tanqiu City.
In Xin Mao, Pei Sui captured Di City.
Bingshen also captured Zongcheng, so he marched and garrisoned Lijing.
In Renyin, Wei Jingxin, the governor of the East China Sea of ​​Wei State, offered Siwu City to surrender.
Cao Shizong, the governor of General Dingyuan's mouth, captured the city of Quyang in the state of Wei.
In Jiachen, Qinxu was captured again.
The defenders of Wei Guocheng and Panxi abandoned the city and fled.
On Bingchen in November, Peng Baosun captured Dongguan City.
In Renxu, Pei Sui attacked Ancheng in Shouyang. Bingyin, Wei's Ma Tou and Ancheng troops all came to surrender.
In December Wuyin, Jingshan City of Wei State surrendered.
In Yisi, the brave general Li Guoxing attacked Pingping Pass and captured it.
Xin Chou and Yang Faqian, the chief minister of Xinwei, attacked Wuyang Pass; Ren Yin attacked Xian Pass. All conquered.
In the spring of the sixth year on Bingwu of the first lunar month, Anbei general Xiao Gang, king of Jin'an, sent Chief Shi Liujin to capture Wei's Nanxiang County, and Sima Dong Dangmen captured Wei's Jincheng.
Gengxu also captured the two cities of Maquan and Diaoyang.
In the year of 1911, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs and granted amnesty to the whole world.
Geng Shen, General Shu of the Wei State, and Yuan Faseng, the governor of Xuzhou, offered Pengcheng to surrender.
At Jisi, Yongzhou's vanguard troops captured Xincai County of Wei State.
The edict said: The imperial court's plan has been decided, and the external offensive will be carried out.
Hou Yuanzao of Xichang, the general in charge and the leader of the army, can go out in person and be the vanguard. Xiao Zong, the general of Zhenbei and the governor of South Yanzhou, the king of Yuzhang, will lead the heroes and follow up at lightning speed. The remaining armies will be dispatched at an agreed time.
The vanguard, center troops and follow-up troops are properly deployed. I will lead the six armies like rolling clouds and cross the Yangtze River in dragon boats.
Guiyou conquered the city of Zheng in Wei.
In Jiaxu, he appointed the former Wei Zhenshu general and Xuzhou governor Yuan Faseng as Sikong.
In February, Ding Chou, Canopus appears.
In Gengchen, Xiao Xu, the king of Luling, the governor of Southern Xuzhou, returned to the court and received military strategies.
At the end of the day, Zhan Jingyue captured Longkang City of Wei State.
summary:
In the fifth year, Xiao Wei and Xiao Hui were promoted. Xia Houyi and Wang Feng were appointed. Xiao Zong and Xiao Gang were promoted. Wang Fen died. Canopus appeared. Han and Liao were established in Yangzhou. Xiao Ji was appointed governor. Dragons fought in Qu'a. Yuan Shu was sent to conquer the north. Rewards were given. Cheng Jingjun captured Wei Tongcheng. Several cities were captured. Wei Jingxin surrendered. Cao Shizong captured Quyang. Pei Sui attacked Shouyang. Several cities surrendered.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
三月丙午，岁星见南斗。
赐新附民长复除，应诸罪失，一无所问。
己酉，行幸白下城，履行六军顿所。
乙丑，镇北将军、南兗州刺史豫章王综权顿彭城，总督众军，并摄徐州府事。
己巳，以魏假平东将军元景隆为衡州刺史，魏征虏将军元景仲为广州刺史。
夏五月己酉，筑宿预堰，又修曹公堰于济阴。
太白昼见。
壬子，遣中护军夏侯亶督寿阳诸军事，北伐。
六月庚辰，豫章王综奔于魏，魏复据彭城。
秋七月壬戌，大赦天下。
八月丙子，以散骑常侍曹仲宗兼领军。
壬午，老人星见。
十二月戊子，邵陵王纶有罪，免官，削爵土。
壬辰，京师地震。
七年春正月辛丑朔，赦殊死以下。
丁卯，滑国遣使献方物。
二月甲戌，北伐众军解严。
河南遣使献方物。
丁亥，老人星见。
三月乙卯，高丽国遣使献方物。
夏四月乙酉，太尉临川王宏薨。
南州津改置校尉，增加俸秩。
诏在位群臣，各举所知，凡是清吏，咸使荐闻，州年举二人，大郡一人。
六月己卯，林邑国遣使献方物。
秋九月己酉，骠骑大将军、开府仪同三司、荆州刺史鄱阳王恢薨。
冬十月辛未，以丹阳尹、湘东王绎为荆州刺史。
十一月庚辰，大赦天下。
是日，丁贵嫔薨。
辛巳，夏侯亶、胡龙牙、元树、曹世宗等众军克寿阳城。
丁亥，放魏扬州刺史李宪还北。
以寿阳置豫州，合肥改为南豫州。
以中护军夏侯亶为豫、南豫二州刺史。
平西将军、郢州刺史元树进号安西将军。
魏新野太守以郡降。
大通元年春正月乙丑，以尚书左仆射徐勉为尚书仆射、中卫将军。
诏曰： 朕思利兆民，惟日不足，气象环回，每弘优简。
translation: 
On Bingwu in the third month, the year star appears in the South Dou.
The newly converted people were rewarded with long-term exemption from taxes, and all crimes were not investigated.
On Jiyou day, the emperor went to Baixia City to inspect where the six armies were stationed.
Yichou, the general of Zhenbei and the governor of southern Yanzhou, Xiao Zong, the king of Yuzhang, was temporarily stationed in Pengcheng, commanding all the armies, and acting as agent for the affairs of Xuzhou Prefecture.
Jisi, appointed Yuan Jinglong, the former Wei State's temporary Pingdong general, as the governor of Hengzhou, and Yuan Jingzhong, the former Wei State's conquering general, as the governor of Guangzhou.
On the fifth day of the fifth month of summer, the Suyu weir was built, and the Caogong weir was built in Jiyin.
Venus appears during the day.
Renzi sent Xiahou Xuan, the central guard army, to take charge of the affairs of the armies in Shouyang and march northward.
In the sixth month of Gengchen, Xiao Zong, king of Yuzhang, defected to Wei, and Wei occupied Pengcheng again.
In the autumn and seventh month of Renxu, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In August Bingzi, Cao Zhongzong, the regular servant of Sanqi, was appointed as the leading general.
At Renwu, the star Canopus appeared.
In the twelfth month of the lunar month, Xiao Lun, the king of Shaoling, committed a crime and was dismissed from his official position and deprived of his title and fiefdom.
In Renchen, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
On the first day of Xinchou's first lunar month in the seventh year of spring, prisoners with crimes under capital punishment were pardoned.
On Ding Mao, the Hua Kingdom sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In February of Jiaxu, the armies marching north were lifted from martial law.
The king of Henan sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
Dinghai, Canopus appears.
On Yimao in the third month, Koryo sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
On the fourth day of the fourth month of summer, Taiwei came and Wang Xiaohong passed away.
Nanzhoujin was reorganized into a school captain and its salary levels were increased.
The ministers who were in office under Shaoling each recommended talents they were familiar with. All honest officials were recommended by the imperial court. Two people were recommended in each state every year, and one person was recommended in each county.
On the sixth day of the sixth lunar month, Lin Yi State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the ninth month of autumn, Xiao Hui, the king of Poyang, the general of the Hussars, the third division of Kaifu Yitong, and the governor of Jingzhou, passed away.
In the tenth month of winter, Xiao Yi, king of Yin Xiangdong in Danyang, was appointed as the governor of Jingzhou.
In the Gengchen month of November, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
On this day, Ding Guifei passed away.
Xin Si, Xia Houzhi, Hu Longya, Yuan Shu, Cao Shizong and other armies captured Shouyang City.
Ding Hai released Li Xian, the governor of Yangzhou in Wei State, and returned to the north.
Yuzhou was established in Shouyang, and Hefei was changed to South Yuzhou.
Xia Houyi of the Central Guard Army was appointed governor of Henan and Southern Henan.
General Pingxi and the governor of Mozhou, Cheng Su, were promoted to General Anxi.
The poor and exhausted governor surrendered his county and city.
In the spring and first month of the first year of Taitong, Yichou appointed Shangshu Zuopusheyi as Shangshu Pushe and Zhongwei General.
Shaoling said: I think about benefiting the people, but my daily efforts are not enough. As time goes by, I often deliberately give preferential treatment to simple actions.
summary:
In the sixth year, Xiao Gang captured Nanxiang and Jincheng. The emperor sacrificed to the southern suburbs. Yuan Faseng surrendered Pengcheng. Xincai was captured. An edict outlined military plans. Zheng was conquered. Yuan Faseng was appointed Sikong. Canopus appeared. Xiao Xu returned. Zhan Jingyue captured Longkang. The year star appeared. The emperor inspected Baixia. Xiao Zong was stationed in Pengcheng. Yuan Jinglong and Yuan Jingzhong were appointed. Suyu and Caogong weirs were built. Xiahou Xuan was sent north. Xiao Zong defected to Wei. A general amnesty was granted. Cao Zhongzong was appointed. Canopus appeared. Xiao Lun was dismissed. An earthquake occurred. In the seventh year, prisoners were pardoned. Hua Kingdom sent tribute. The northern armies were demobilized. The King of Henan sent tribute. Canopus appeared. Goryeo sent tribute. Wang Xiaohong died. Officials were to recommend talents. Lin Yi sent tribute. Xiao Hui died. Xiao Yi was appointed governor of Jingzhou. A general amnesty was granted. Ding Guifei died. Shouyang was captured. Li Xian was released. Yuzhou and South Yuzhou were established. Xia Houyi was appointed governor.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
百官俸禄，本有定数，前代以来，皆多评准，顷者因循，未遑改革。
自今已后，可长给见钱，依时即出，勿令逋缓。
凡散失官物，不问多少，并从原宥。
惟事涉军储，取公私见物，不在此例。
辛未，舆驾亲祠南郊。诏曰： 奉时昭事，虔荐苍璧，思承天德，惠此下民。
凡因事去土，流移他境者，并听复宅业，蠲役五年。
尤贫之家，勿收三调。
孝悌力田赐爵一级。
是月，司州刺史夏侯夔进军三关，所至皆克。
三月辛未，舆驾幸同泰寺舍身。甲戌，还宫，赦天下，改元。
以左卫将军萧渊藻为中护军。
林邑、师子国各遣使献方物。
夏五月丙寅，成景隽克魏临潼竹邑。
秋八月壬辰，老人星见。
冬十月庚戌，魏东豫州刺史元庆和以涡阳内属。
甲寅，曲赦东豫州。
十一月丁卯，以中护军萧渊藻为北讨都督、征北大将军，镇涡阳。
戊辰，加尚书令、中卫将军、开府仪同三司袁昂中书监。
以涡阳置西徐州。
高丽国遣使献方物。
二年春正月庚申，司空元法僧以本官领中军将军。
中书监、尚书令、中卫将军、开府仪同三司袁昂进号中抚大将军。
卫尉卿萧昂为中领军。
乙酉，芮芮国遣使献方物。
二月甲午，老人星见。
是月，筑寒山堰。
三月壬戌，以江州刺史南康王绩为安右将军。
夏四月辛丑，魏郢州刺史元愿达以义阳内附，置北司州。
时魏大乱，其北海王元颢、临淮王元彧、汝南王元悦并来奔；其北青州刺史元世隽、南荆州刺史李志亦以地降。
六月丁亥，魏临淮王元彧求还本国，许之。
冬十月丁亥，以魏北海王元颢为魏主，遣东宫直阁将军陈庆之卫送还北。
魏豫州刺史邓献以地内属。
translation: 
The salary of each official has a fixed amount. It has been assessed and approved many times since previous generations. Recently, the old practice has been followed and there has been no time to change it.
From now on, cash can be issued on a long-term basis, on time, and no arrears will occur.
All errors in the loss of government supplies, no matter how small, will be forgiven.
However, the matter involves military reserves, and the use of existing public and private supplies is not covered by this regulation.
At the end of the Xin Dynasty, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs and issued an edict: "Respect the seasons and show the etiquette, devoutly offer the green and black jade, consider and uphold the virtues of heaven, and benefit the people of the world."
Anyone who left his hometown due to the war and lived in other places was allowed to restore his residence and property and be exempted from five years of hard labor.
For extremely poor families, the three adjustments will not be levied.
The agricultural officer of Ren Xiaoti Litian was given a first-level title.
This month, Xiahou Kui, the governor of Sizhou, marched to the three passes and conquered everything he went.
At the end of March, the emperor went to Tongtai Temple, sacrificed his life in Jiaxu, returned to the palace, granted amnesty to the world, and changed the reign name.
Xiao Yuanzun, the general of the left guard, was appointed as the central guard army.
Dianken and Crocodile Wangli each sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the fifth month of Xia Bingyin, Cheng Jingjun conquered Lintong and Zhuken in Wei State.
In autumn and August at Renchen, Canopus appears.
In the tenth month of winter, during the Gengxu period, Yuan Qinghe, the governor of Yuzhou, surrendered to the State of Wei and surrendered to Guoyang.
Jiayin, pardoned the prisoners in East Yuzhou.
On Dingmao in November, Xiao Yuanzao of the Central Guard Army was appointed as the governor of the Northern Campaign and the general of the Northern Campaign to guard Guoyang.
In Wuchen, Yuan Ang, the Minister of the Secretariat, the General of Zhongwei, and the Third Division of Kaifu Yi were appointed as the supervisor of Zhongshu.
Set up in the western Xuzhou of Guoyan.
Koryo State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the spring and first month of the second year of Gengshen, Sikong Yuanfa monk concurrently served as the general of the Chinese army with his original official position.
Zhongshu Jian, Shangshu Ling, Zhongwei General, and Kaifu Yi were directly promoted to the rank of Zhongfu General.
Wei Weiqing Gai Ang served as the central leader.
In Yiyou, Ruirui State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In February, the star Canopus appeared.
This month, build Hanshan Burial.
In the third month of March, Xiao Ji, the governor of Nankang, was appointed General Anyou.
In Xinchou, the fourth month of summer, Fuhuangjian's governor, Wutida, offered Zhanyang to surrender and established Beisi Prefecture.
At that time, the political situation in Gongli was in chaos, and their Beihai Wang Douti, Fallen Wang Wusheng, and Dalu Kuangyuantan all came to defect to him; their leek merchants, Shi Wuxinggu, and Chensuyou, Shi Kuijin, also offered their land and surrendered.
In the sixth month of Dinghai, Wang Yuanor of the Linhuai Kingdom of Wei requested to return to his homeland, and his request was granted.
In the tenth month of winter, Dinghai appointed King Yuanhao of the North Sea of ​​Wei State as the lord of Wei, and sent Chen Qingzhi, the general of Shugong Zhihe, to escort him back to the north.
Deng Xian, the governor of Yuzhou in the Wei State, offered his land and surrendered.
summary:
In the first year of Taitong, an edict regulated official salaries. The emperor sacrificed to the southern suburbs, offering amnesty and tax exemptions. Xiahou Kui conquered the three passes. The emperor went to Tongtai Temple, changed the reign name. Xiao Yuanzun was appointed. Dianken and Crocodile Wangli sent tribute. Cheng Jingjun conquered Lintong. Canopus appeared. Yuan Qinghe surrendered. Prisoners were pardoned. Xiao Yuanzao was appointed. Yuan Ang was promoted. Western Xuzhou was established. Goryeo sent tribute. In the second year, Yuan Faseng was appointed. Ruirui sent tribute. Canopus appeared. Hanshan Burial was built. Xiao Ji was appointed. Wutida surrendered. Wei princes defected. Yuan Hao was appointed lord of Wei. Deng Xian surrendered.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
中大通元年正月辛酉，舆驾亲祠南郊，大赦天下，孝悌力田赐爵一级。
甲子，魏汝南王元悦求还本国，许之。
辛巳，舆驾亲祠明堂。
二月甲申，以丹阳尹武陵王纪为江州刺史。
辛丑，芮芮国遣使献方物。
三月丙辰，以河南王阿罗真为宁西将军、西秦、河沙三州刺史。
庚辰，以中护军萧渊藻为中权将军。
夏四月癸未，以安右将军南康王绩为护军将军。
癸巳，陈庆之攻魏梁城，拔之，进屠考城，擒魏济阴王元晖业。
五月戊辰，克大梁。
癸酉，克虎牢城。
魏主元子攸弃洛阳，走河北。
乙亥，元颢入洛阳。
六月壬午，大赦天下。
辛亥，魏淮阴太守晋鸿以湖阳城内属。
闰月己未，安右将军、护军南康王绩薨。
己卯，魏尔硃荣攻杀元颢，复据洛阳。
秋九月辛巳，硃雀航华表灾。
以安北将军羊侃为青、冀二州刺史。
癸巳，舆驾幸同泰寺，设四部无遮大会，因舍身，公卿以下，以钱一亿万奉赎。
冬十月己酉，舆驾还宫，大赦，改元。
十一月丙戌，加中抚大将军、开府仪同三司袁昂中书监。
加镇卫大将军、开府仪同三司南平王伟太子少傅。
加金紫光禄大夫萧琛、陆杲并特进。
司空、中军将军元法僧进号车骑将军。
中权将军萧渊藻为中护军将军。
中领军萧昂为领军将军。
戊子，魏巴州刺史严始欣以城降。
十二月丁巳，盘盘国遣使献方物。
二年春正月戊寅，以雍州刺史晋安王纲为骠骑大将军、扬州刺史，南徐州刺史庐陵王续为平北将军、雍州刺史。
癸未，老人星见。
夏四月庚申，大雨雹。
壬申，以河南王佛辅为宁西将军、西秦、河二州刺史。
六月丁巳，遣魏太保汝南王元悦还北为魏主。
庚申，以魏尚书左仆射范遵为安北将军、司州牧，随元悦北讨。
translation: 
On the Xinyou day of the first month of the first year of Zhongdatong, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs, granted amnesty to the world, and granted first-level titles to agricultural officials who were filial piety and Litian.
In Jiazi, Wang Yuanyue of Runan in Wei State requested to return to his homeland, and his request was granted.
Xin Si, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to Mingtang.
In February Jiashen, Xiao Ji, the king of Yinwuling in Danyang, was appointed as the governor of Jiangzhou.
Xin Chou, Ruirui State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In March Bingchen, King Aluozhen of Henan was appointed as the general of Ningxi and the governor of the three states of Youtai Huisha.
Gengchen appointed Zhonghujun Lu Xunlian as Zhongquan General.
In the fourth month of the Xia Dynasty, Xiao Xu, the king of Nankang, was appointed as the general of the army.
In Guisi, Chen Qingzhi attacked Liangcheng of Wei State and captured it; he marched to massacre Kaocheng and captured Yuan Huiye, King of Jiyin of Wei State.
On Wuchen in May, Daliang was captured.
Guiyou, captured Hulao City.
The owner of the tomb, Yuan Ziyou, gave up robbing the fort and fled to Jiongjiu.
Yihai, five questions enter Dangdang.
On Renwu in the sixth month, a general amnesty will be granted to the whole world.
In the year of 1911, Jin Hong, the prefect of Huaiyin in the Wei State, surrendered Huyang City to surrender.
At the end of the leap month, Xiao Ji, General An You and King of Nankang who protected the army, passed away.
In Ji Mao, Wei Erzhu Rong attacked and killed Yuan Hao and occupied Luoyang.
In the ninth month of autumn, Zhuquehang's beautiful watch was damaged.
General Yang Kan of Anbei was appointed governor of Qingzhou and Jizhou.
In Guisi, the emperor went to Tongtai Temple and held the Four Uncovered Dharma Assembly. Then he sacrificed himself and entered the temple. Officials below the public minister paid 100 million yuan to redeem him.
In the tenth month of winter, the emperor returned to the palace, granted amnesty to the world, and changed the reign name.
In November of Bingxu, General Zhongfu and Kaifu Yitong were awarded the title of Zhongshu Supervisor.
In addition, Lu Wei, the general of Zhenwei and the third division of Kaifu Yitong, Yinuo, was granted the title of Prince Shaofu.
Lu Zheng, Lu Zheng, and Zuo Ji were both awarded the title of Jin Zi Guang Lu.
Sikong and General Wudie were promoted to the rank of Chariot and Cavalry General.
Xiao Yuanzao, the general of central power, served as the general of the central defense army.
Lu Xian, the central leader, served as the leading general.
Wuzi, Bipanwu, the governor of Fuxi Danye, offered his city to surrender.
On the 10th day of the lunar month, Panpan State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the spring of the second year, on the first day of the lunar month, Wuyin appointed King Jiaomian of Zhibao, the governor of Yong, as the General of Hussars and the governor of Laosu. Xiao Xu, the king of Luling, the governor of Mutu, was appointed as the general of Pingbei and the governor of Yinsu.
At the end of Guiwei, Canopus appears.
In April of summer, there was heavy rain and hail.
Renshen appointed Huizhi Gongdan as the general of Ningxi and the governor of Youtai Huizhou.
In the sixth month of Dingsi, Wang Yuanyue of Runan, the eunuch of Wei State, was sent back to the north to serve as the lord of Wei.
Gengshen appointed Shelianzun, the left servant of Shangshu Gengshu, as General Anbei and Longmu, and followed Hutan in his expedition to the north.
summary:
In the first year of Zhongdatong, the emperor sacrificed to the southern suburbs. Wang Yuanyue returned. The emperor sacrificed to Mingtang. Xiao Ji was appointed. Ruirui sent tribute. The King of Henan was appointed. Lu Xunlian was appointed. Xiao Xu was appointed. Chen Qingzhi captured Liangcheng. Daliang and Hulao were captured. A general amnesty was granted. Jin Hong surrendered. Xiao Ji died. Erzhu Rong killed Yuan Hao. Zhuquehang was damaged. Yang Kan was appointed. The emperor went to Tongtai Temple. The reign name was changed. Officials were promoted. Bipanwu surrendered. Panpan sent tribute. In the second year, Xiao Wei and Xiao Xu were appointed. Canopus appeared. Heavy rain and hail occurred. Huizhi Gongdan was appointed. Wang Yuanyue was sent north. Shelianzun was appointed. Diekenxi and Funan sent tribute. The emperor went to Deyang Hall. Bandits invaded Kuaiji. Zhan Hai was sent to attack.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
林邑国遣使献方物。
壬申，扶南国遣使献方物。
秋八月庚戌，舆驾幸德阳堂，设丝竹会，祖送魏主元悦。
山贼聚结，寇会稽郡所部县。
九月壬午，假超武将军湛海珍节以讨之。
三年春正月辛巳，舆驾亲祠南郊，大赦天下，孝悌力田赐爵一级。
丙申，以魏尚书仆射郑先护为征北大将军。
二月辛丑，舆驾亲祠明堂。
甲寅，老人星见。
乙卯，特进萧琛卒。
乙丑，以广州刺史元景隆为安右将军。
夏四月乙巳，皇太子统薨。
六月丁未，以前太子詹事萧渊猷为中护军。
尚书仆射徐勉加特进、右光禄大夫。
丹丹国遣使献方物。
癸丑，立昭明太子子南徐州刺史华容公欢为豫章郡王，枝江公誉为河东郡王，曲阿公察为岳阳郡王。
秋七月乙亥，立晋安王纲为皇太子。
大赦天下，赐为父后者及出处忠孝文武清勤，并赐爵一级。
乙酉，以侍中、五兵尚书谢举为吏部尚书。
庚寅，诏曰： 推恩六亲，义彰九族，班以侯爵，亦曰惟允。
凡是宗戚有服属者，并可赐沐食乡亭侯，各随远近以为差次。
其有昵亲，自依旧章。
壬辰，以吏部尚书何敬容为尚书右仆射。
癸巳，老人星见。
九月庚午，以太子詹事萧渊藻为征北将军、南兗州刺史。
戊寅，狼牙脩国奉表献方物。
冬十月己酉，行幸同泰寺，高祖升法座，为四部众说《大般若涅盘经》义，迄于乙卯。
前乐山县侯萧正则有罪流徙，至是招诱亡命，欲寇广州，在所讨平之。
十一月乙未，行幸同泰寺，高祖升法座，为四部从说《摩诃般若波罗蜜经》义，讫于十二月辛丑。
是岁，吴兴郡生野谷，堪食。
translation: 
Diekenxi sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In Renshen, Funan Kingdom sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the autumn and August of Gengxu, the emperor went to Deyang Hall and held a concert to bid farewell to the tomb owner.
Bandits and bandits gathered in the mountains and invaded the counties under the jurisdiction of Kuaiji County.
On Renwu in the ninth month, the Chaowu General Zhan Haizhen Fu Jie was given to attack the bandits in the mountains.
In the spring of the third year of the first lunar month of Xinsi, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs, granted amnesty to the world, and awarded first-level titles to the agricultural officials who had done filial piety to the fields.
In Bingshen, She Yinshengjin, the servant of Yunken Shangshu, was appointed as the general of the expedition to the north.
Xinchou, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to Mingtang.
In Jiayin, Canopus appeared.
Yimao, special enters the reed stem and dies.
Yichou appointed Wu Jijian, the governor of Lu Ye, as general Anyou.
In the fourth month of summer, the crown prince Xiao Tong passed away.
At the end of June, the former prince Zhan Shi Xiao Yuanyou was appointed as the Central Guard Army.
Shangshu Pushe Xu Mianjia was granted the title of Tejin and Youguanglu doctor.
Dandanxi sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
Guichou established Qi Ronggong Lu Fu, the son of Prince Zhao Ming, as the governor of Chentuye, as the king of Yuzhang County, Tarsi Gonglu as the county king of Huisi, and Di Huisheng Zhefan as the county king of Yueyang.
In Yihai, the seventh month of autumn, King Lu Bao of Sai was established as the crown prince.
Under the amnesty, those who are his father's heirs and those who are loyal, filial, honest and diligent in both civil and military affairs will be given a first-level title.
In Yiyou, Xie Ju, the Minister of Shizhong and the Five Soldiers, was appointed as the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
Gengyin, Shaoling said: It can be said that it is appropriate to promote love to the six relatives, to clarify the moral principles of the nine clans, and to award the marquis.
All relatives of the clan within the fifth service can be given to the Tinghou of Mu Shi Township, and each service is ranked according to their relative relative distance.
Those who have a close relationship will naturally follow the old rules.
In Renchen, He Jingrong, the Minister of Civil Affairs, was appointed as the right servant of the Minister.
Guisi. Canopus appears.
In September of Gengwu, Prince Zhan Shi Xiao Yuanzao was appointed as the general of the northern expedition and the governor of Yanzhou in the south.
Wuyin, Langya Xiuguo sent a memorial to pay tribute to local specialties.
On the 1st day of the 10th month in winter, I went to Tongtai Temple, where the great ancestor ascended the throne. He taught Buddhist disciples, both monks and laymen, the principles of the Mahaprajna Nirvana Sutra until Yimao.
Former Leshan County Hou Xiao Zhengze committed a crime and was exiled. When he arrived in Japan, he attracted fugitives and wanted to invade Guangzhou. The local defenders attacked and pacified him.
At the end of November, I went to Tongtai Temple, where the great ancestor ascended the throne. Teaching the principles of the Mahaprajnaparamita Sutra to monks and lay Buddhist disciples until Xinchou Day in December.
This year, wild grains grew in Wuxing County and were edible.
summary:
In the third year, the emperor sacrificed to the southern suburbs. She Yinshengjin was appointed. The emperor sacrificed to Mingtang. Canopus appeared. Lu Geng died. Wu Jijian was appointed. Crown Prince Xiao Tong died. Xiao Yuanyou was appointed. Xu Mian was promoted. Dandanxi sent tribute. Lu Fu and others were made kings. Lu Bao was made crown prince. An amnesty was granted. Xie Ju was appointed. An edict promoted clan relatives. He Jingrong was appointed. Canopus appeared. Xiao Yuanzao was appointed. Langya Xiuguo sent tribute. The emperor taught sutras at Tongtai Temple. Xiao Zhengze rebelled. Wild grains grew in Wuxing.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
四年春正月丙寅朔，以镇卫大将军、开府仪同三司南平王伟进位大司马，司空元法僧进太尉，尚书令、中权大将军、开府仪同三司袁昂进位司空。
立临川靖惠王宏子正德为临贺郡王。
戊辰，以丹阳尹邵陵王纶为扬州刺史。
太子右卫率薛法护为平北将军、司州牧，卫送元悦入洛。
庚午，立嫡皇孙大器为宣城郡王。
癸未，魏南兗州刺史刘世明以城降，改魏南兗州为谯州，以世明为刺史。
二月壬寅，老人星见。
新除太尉元法僧还北，为东魏主。
以安右将军元景隆为征北将军、徐州刺史，云麾将军羊侃为安北将军、兗州刺史，散骑常侍元树为镇北将军。
庚戌，新除扬州刺史邵陵王纶有罪，免为庶人。
壬子，以江州刺史武陵王纪为扬州刺史，领军将军萧昂为江州刺史。
丙辰，邵陵县获白鹿一。
三月庚午，侍中、领国子博士萧子显上表置制旨《孝经》助教一人，生十人，专通高祖所释《孝经义》。
夏四月壬申，盘盘国遣使献方物。
秋七月甲辰，星陨如雨。
八月丙子，特进陆杲卒。
九月乙巳，以太子詹事南平王世子恪为领军将军，平北将军、雍州刺史庐陵王续为安北将军，西中郎将、荆州刺史湘东王绎为平西将军，司空袁昂领尚书令。
十一月己酉，高丽国遣使献方物。
十二月庚辰，以太尉元法僧为骠骑大将军、开府同三司之仪、郢州刺史。
五年春正月辛卯，舆驾亲祠南郊，大赦天下，孝悌力田赐爵一级。
先是一日丙夜，南郊令解涤之等到郊所履行，忽闻空中有异香三随风至，及将行事，奏乐迎神毕，有神光满坛上，硃紫黄白杂色，食顷方灭。
兼太宰武陵王纪等以闻。
戊申，京师地震。
己酉。长星见。
translation: 
On the first day of the first month of the fourth year of spring, Bingyin, Nanping Wang Gaiwei, the general of Zhenwei and the third division of Kaifu Yitong, was promoted to Grand Sima, Sikong Yuanfaseng was promoted to Taiwei, and Yuan Xian, the Shangshu Ling, the general of Zhongfu, and the third division of Kaifu Yitong was promoted to Sikong.
Kongdi, the son of Lucai, King Jinghui of Linchuan, was made king of Duohe County.
In the Wuchen period, Qieyan Yin was appointed as the governor of the troubled state.
The crown prince's right guard led Ying Zaohu as Pingbei General and Ye Mu, and escorted Zuo Tan into the Fallen Fort.
On Geng Wu day, he established the emperor's grandson, Lord Mo, as the king of Xuanyue County.
At the end of Gui Dynasty, Liu Shiming, the governor of Yanzhou in the south of Quzhou, surrendered the city and renamed Yanzhou in the south of Wei State as Qiaozhou, and appointed Shiming as the governor.
In February Renyin, the star Canopus appeared.
The new Taiwei Yuan Faseng returned to the north and became the Lord of Shu Wei.
General Anyou General Yuan Jinglong was appointed as the General of the Northern Campaign and the Governor of Xuzhou, General Yunhui Yang Kan was appointed as the General of Anbei and the Governor of Yanzhou, and Sanqi Changshi Wushu was appointed as the General of Zhenbei.
In Gengxu, the new governor of Huazhou, King Lu Yao of Shaoling, committed a crime and was removed from office and became a civilian.
Renzi appointed Wuling Wang Xiao Ji, the governor of Jiangzhou, as the governor of Yangzhou, and the leading general Gai Xian as the governor of Liaoye.
Bingchen, Shaoling County captured a white deer.
In the third month of the third month, Xiao Zixian, a minister in charge of the imperial examination and a doctor of the Imperial Academy of China, submitted a memorial requesting for the appointment of one assistant to teach the "Book of Filial Piety" and ten students to read through the "Book of Filial Piety" annotated by Emperor Gaozu.
In the fourth month of summer in Renshen, Panpan Kingdom sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In autumn and July, the stars fall like rain.
In August Bingzi, Tejin Lu Gao passed away.
In September Yisi, Xiao Ke, the eldest son of Prince Zhanshi of Nanping, was appointed as the leading general, Xiao Xu, the general of Pingbei and the governor of Yongzhou and the king of Luling, was appointed as the general of Anbei, the general of Xizhonglang and the king of Xiangdong, the governor of Jingzhou, Xiao Yi, was appointed as the general of Pingxi.
In the eleventh month of the twelfth month, Goryeo sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the 12th month of Gengchen, Taiwei was appointed one after another as General of Hussars, Kaifu Tongsansi Zhiyi, and Maggot Governor.
In the spring of the fifth year, on the first lunar month of Xin Mao, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs, granted amnesty to the world, and granted first-level titles to agricultural officials who were filial piety and Li Tian.
At the third watch of the previous day, Nanjiao ordered Jie Dizhi and others to inspect the sacrificial site. Suddenly, they smelled an unusual fragrance floating in the air three times on the wind. Then during the sacrificial ceremony, after the music was played to welcome the gods, a divine light filled the altar, purple, yellow, white and various colors, and it disappeared after a meal.
Xiao Ji, the concurrent Dazai and King of Wuling, and others reported the matter to the court.
In Wushen, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
Jiyou, the long star appears.
summary:
In the fourth year, Xiao Wei was promoted. Yuan Faseng was promoted. Yuan Xian was appointed. Kongdi was made king. Qieyan Yin was appointed. Ying Zao was appointed. Xiao Mo was made king. Liu Shiming surrendered. Canopus appeared. Yuan Faseng returned north. Yuan Jinglong and others were appointed. Xiao Yao was dismissed. Xiao Ji was appointed. A white deer was captured. Xiao Zixian requested teaching the Book of Filial Piety. Panpan sent tribute. Stars fell like rain. Lu Gao died. Xiao Ke and others were appointed. Goryeo sent tribute. Taiwei was appointed.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
辛亥，舆驾亲祠明堂。
癸丑，以宣城王大器为中军将军。
河南国遣使献方物。
二月癸未，行幸同泰寺，设四部大会，高祖升法座，发《金字摩诃波若经》题，讫于己丑。
老人星见。
三月丙辰，大司马南平王伟薨。
夏四月癸酉，以御史中丞臧盾兼领军。
五月戊子，京邑大水，御道通船。
六月己卯，魏建义城主兰宝杀魏东徐州刺史，以下邳城降。
秋七月辛卯，改下邳为武州。
八月庚申，以前徐州刺史元景隆为安右将军。
老人星见。
甲子，波斯国遣使献方物。
甲申，中护军萧渊猷卒。
九月己亥，以轻车将军、临贺王正德为中护军。
甲寅，以尚书令、司空袁昂为特进、左光禄大夫，司空如故。
盘盘国遣使献方物。
冬十月庚申，以尚书右仆射何敬容为尚书左仆射，吏部尚书谢举为尚书右仆射，侍中、国子祭酒萧子显为吏部尚书。
六年春二月癸亥，舆驾亲耕籍田，大赦天下，孝悌力田赐爵一级。
三月己亥，以行河南王可沓振为西秦、河二州刺史、河南王。
甲辰，百济国遣使献方物。
夏四月丁卯，荧惑在南斗。
秋七月甲辰，林邑国遣使献方物。
八月己未，以南梁州刺史武兴王杨绍先为秦、南秦二州刺史。
冬十月丁卯，以信武将军元庆和为镇北将军，率众北伐。
闰十二月丙午，西南有雷声二。
大同元年春正月戊申朔，改元，大赦天下。
二月己卯，老人星见。
辛巳，舆驾亲祠明堂。
丁亥，舆驾躬耕籍田。
辛丑，高丽国、丹丹国各遣使献方物。
三月辛未，滑国王安乐萨丹王遣使献方物。
夏四月庚子，波斯国献方物。
甲辰，以魏镇东将军刘济为徐州刺史。
壬戌，以安北将军庐陵王续为安南将军、江州刺史。
秋七月乙卯，老人星见。
辛卯，扶南国遣使献方物。
冬十月辛卯，以前南兗州刺史萧渊藻为护军将军。
十一月丁未，中卫将军、特进、右光禄大夫徐勉卒。
壬戌，北梁州刺史兰钦攻汉中，克之，魏梁州刺史元罗降。
癸亥，赐梁州归附者复除有差。
甲子，雄勇将军、北益州刺史阴平王杨法深进号平北将军。
月行左角星。
十二月乙酉，以魏北徐州刺史羊徽逸为平北将军。
戊戌，以平西将军、秦、南秦二州刺史武兴王杨绍先进号车骑将军、平北将军、北益州刺史阴平王杨法深进号骠骑将军。
辛丑，平西将军、荆州刺史湘东王绎进号安西将军。
二年春正月甲辰，以兼领军臧盾为中领军。
二月乙亥，舆驾躬耕籍田。
丙戌，老人星见。
三月庚申，诏曰： 政在养民，德存被物，上令如风，民应如草。
translation: 
In Xinhai, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to Mingtang.
Guichou appointed King Daqi of Xuancheng as the general of the central army.
The Henan Kingdom sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the second month of Guiwei, I went to Tongtai Temple and held a four-part Dharma assembly. I climbed up to the Dharma throne and revealed the meaning of the "Golden-Charactered Mahaprajna Sutra" until Ji Chou.
Canopus appears.
On Bingchen in March, Grand Sima Nanping Wang Xiaowei passed away.
In the fourth month of Xia Guiyou, Zang Dun, the censor Zhongcheng, was appointed as the leader.
In the fifth month of Wuzi, the capital city suffered a severe flood, and ships were allowed to pass on the imperial road.
On the sixth day of the sixth lunar month, Lan Xuan, the lord of Wei Hejianzhan City, killed the governor of Jianzhou in the tomb of Wei, and offered Wang Waiyan to surrender.
In the Xinmao period of the seventh month of autumn, the industry was changed to the name of stem industry.
In August Gengshen, former governor Yuan Jinglong was appointed as General Anyou.
Canopus appears.
Jiazi, Zheqianli sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In Jiashen, Xiao Yuanyou, the Central Protector, passed away.
In September Jihai, General Qingche and Linhe Wang Zhengde were appointed as the Central Guard Army.
In Jiayin, Shangshu Ling and Sikong Yuan Ang were appointed as Tejin and Zuo Guanglu doctors, but Sikong remained as usual.
Panpan State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the tenth month of winter, Gengshen appointed He Jingrong as Shangshu Zuopushe, Shangshu Zuopushe, Shangshu Xieju as Shangshu right Pushe, Shizhong and Guozi Jijiu Xiao Zixian as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In the spring and February of the sixth year of Guihai, the emperor newly cultivated his own fields, granted amnesty to the world, and granted first-level titles to agricultural officials who were filial piety and Li Tian.
In March Jihai, the acting king of Henan, Kedazhen, was appointed as the governor of the two states of West Qinhe and the king of Henan.
In Jiachen, Baekje sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the fourth month of summer and Ding Mao, Mars travels to the South Dou.
On the first day of the seventh month in autumn, Linyi State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
At the end of August, Wuxing Wang Yang Shaoxian, the governor of Nanliang Prefecture, was appointed as the governor of Qin and Southern Qin states.
In the tenth month of winter, Dingmao appointed General Xinwu Yuan Qinghe as General Zhenbei and led the army to conquer the north.
On Bingwu in the leap twelfth month, there was thunder twice in the southwest.
On the first day of the first month of the spring of the first year of the reign of Emperor Hui, on the first day of the Wushen lunar month, the year name was changed and the whole country was granted amnesty.
On the ninth day of February, the star Canopus appeared.
Xin Si, the emperor personally went to the Mingtang to offer sacrifices.
In Dinghai, the emperor personally cultivated the fields.
Xinchou, Korea and Dandan each sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
At the end of the third month, King Anlesadan, the king of Yixi, sent an envoy to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the fourth month of summer, Gengzi, the Persian state offered tribute to local specialties.
In Jiachen, General Xingbian, the general of Zhangui Zhenshu, was appointed as the governor of Tu Zhao.
In Renxu, Lu Xu, the general of Anbei and the king of Luling, was appointed as the general of Annan and the governor of Liao Cong.
On Yi Mao in the seventh month of autumn, Canopus appears.
In Xinmao, Funan Kingdom sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In Xinmao, the tenth month of winter, Xiao Yuanzao, the former governor of Yanzhou in the south, was appointed as the general protecting the army.
At the end of November, General Zhongwei, Tejin, and Doctor Xu Mian of Youguanglu passed away.
In Renxu, Lanqin, the governor of Beiliangzhou, attacked Mozhong and captured it. Yuanluo, the governor of Liangzhou of Wei State, surrendered.
Guihai rewarded those who surrendered to Liangzhou with various tax exemptions.
In Jiazi, General Xiongyong and the governor of Northern Yizhou, Yang Fashen, King of Yinping, was promoted to General Pingbei.
The moon travels to the left star.
In December Yiyou, Yang Huiyi, the former governor of Xuzhou in the north of Wei State, was appointed as the general of Pingbei.
In the Wuxu period, Yang Shaoxian, the general of Pingxi and the governor of the two states in southern Qin and Qin Dynasty, and the king of Wuxing, was promoted to the rank of general of cavalry.
Xin Chou, Pingxi General and Jingzhou Governor, Xiangshu King Xiao Yi, was promoted to General Anxi.
In the spring of the second year, on the first month of the first lunar month, Zang Dun was appointed as the central leader.
In February Yihai, the emperor personally cultivated the fields.
Bingxu, Canopus appears.
In the third month of the Geng Shen period, the edict stated: Politics is about nurturing the people, virtue is about popularizing the people, the imperial court issues orders like the wind, and the people respond like grass.
summary:
In the fifth year, the emperor sacrificed to the southern suburbs. An unusual fragrance and divine light were reported. An earthquake occurred. A long star appeared. The emperor sacrificed to Mingtang. Xiao Daqi was appointed. The Henan Kingdom sent tribute. The emperor taught sutras at Tongtai Temple. Canopus appeared. Xiao Wei died. Zang Dun was appointed. A severe flood occurred. Lan Xuan surrendered. The industry name was changed. Yuan Jinglong was appointed. Canopus appeared. Zheqianli sent tribute. Xiao Yuanyou died. Xiao Zhengde was appointed. Yuan Ang was promoted. Panpan sent tribute. He Jingrong and others were appointed. In the sixth year, the emperor cultivated fields. Kedazhen was appointed. Baekje sent tribute. Mars traveled to the South Dou. Linyi sent tribute. Yang Shaoxian was appointed. Yuan Qinghe was sent north. Thunder occurred. In the first year of the Hui reign, the reign name was changed. Canopus appeared. The emperor sacrificed to Mingtang and cultivated fields. Korea and Dandan sent tribute. Anlesadan sent tribute. Persia sent tribute. Xingbian was appointed. Lu Xu was appointed. Canopus appeared. Funan sent tribute. Xiao Yuanzao was appointed. Xu Mian died. Lanqin captured Mozhong. Yuan Luo surrendered. Tax exemptions were granted. Yang Fashen was promoted. The moon traveled to the left star. Yang Huiyi was appointed. Yang Shaoxian was promoted. Xiao Yi was promoted. In the second year, Zang Dun was appointed. The emperor cultivated fields. Canopus appeared. An edict discussed governance and called for advice. Xiao Yi was appointed. Jiang Zisi presented a memorial. An edict responded to his concerns. Yuan Luo was appointed. An edict changed official ranks. Troops were sent north but later withdrawn. An earthquake occurred. Wei requested peace. Zhang Lan was appointed. In the first year of the Taiqing reign, Xiao Xu died. Xiao Yi was appointed. The emperor sacrificed to the southern suburbs. An edict granted amnesty and sought talents. The emperor sacrificed to Mingtang. A white air penetrated the sun. Hou Jing of Wei surrendered. Hou Jing was appointed general. The emperor cultivated fields. The emperor went to Tongtai Temple. Yu Mozu and others were sent. The emperor returned. An amnesty was granted. A banquet was held. Xiao Fan was appointed. An edict established new provinces. The imperial army marched north. An edict granted amnesty to new states. Baoliang was appointed. Wang Youyuan was built. The emperor went to the garden. Wei attacked. Lilong was defeated. Tongzhou was surrounded. Yuan Zhen was sent north. Xiao Fan was appointed.

Chunk 11: 
original: 
三年春正月辛丑，舆驾亲祠南郊，大赦天下；孝悌力田赐爵一级。
是夜，硃雀门灾。
壬寅，天无云，雨灰，黄色。
癸卯，以中书令邵陵王纶为江州刺史。
二月乙酉，老人星见。
丁亥，舆驾亲耕籍田。
己丑，以尚书左仆射何敬容为中权将军，护军将军萧渊藻为安右将军、尚书左仆射。
以尚书右仆射谢举为右光禄大夫。
庚寅，以安南将军庐陵王续为中卫将军、护军将军。
三月戊戌，立昭明太子子嵒为武昌郡王，灊为义阳郡王。
夏四月丁卯，以南琅邪、彭城二郡太守河东王誉为南徐州刺史。
五月丙申，以前扬州刺史武陵王纪复为扬州刺史。
六月，青州朐山境陨霜。
秋七月癸卯，魏遣使来聘。
己酉，义阳王灊薨。
是月，青州雪，害苗稼。
八月甲申，老人星见。
辛卯，舆驾幸阿育王寺，赦天下。
九月，南兗州大饥。
是月，北徐州境内旅生稻稗二千许顷。
闰月甲子，安西将军、荆州刺史湘东王绎进号镇西将军，扬州刺史武陵王纪为安西将军、益州刺史。
冬十月丙辰，京师地震。
是岁，饥。
四年春正月庚辰，以中军将军宣城王大器为中军大将军、扬州刺史。
二月己亥，舆驾亲耕籍田。
三月戊寅，河南国遣使献方物。
癸未，芮芮国遣使献方物。
五月甲戌，魏遣使来聘。
秋七月己未，以南琅邪、彭城二郡太守岳阳王察为东扬州刺史。
癸亥，诏以东冶徒李胤之降如来真形舍利，大赦天下。
八月甲辰，诏 南兗、北徐、西徐、东徐、青、冀、南北青、武、仁、潼、睢等十二州，既经饥馑，曲赦逋租宿责，勿收今年三调。
冬十二月丁亥，兼国子助教皇侃表上所撰《礼记义疏》五十卷。
五年春正月乙卯，以护军将军庐陵王续为骠骑将军、开府仪同三司，安右将军、尚书左仆射萧渊藻为中卫将军、开府仪同三司。
中权将军、丹阳尹何敬容以本号为尚书令，吏部尚书张缵为尚书仆射，都官尚书刘孺为吏部尚书。
translation: 
In the spring of the third year of the first lunar month of Xinchou, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs, granted amnesty to the world, and rewarded the filial piety and Litian officers with first-level titles.
That night there was a fire at Zhuque Gate.
Renyin, there are no clouds in the sky, falling dust, yellow color.
In Guimao, Xiao Lun, the king of Shaoling in Zhongshu Ling, was appointed as the governor of Jiang Cong.
In February Yiyou, the star Canopus appeared.
In Dinghai, the emperor personally cultivated the fields.
Ji Chou appointed Shangshu Zuopushe, He Jingrong, as the general of Zhongquan, and the guard general Xiao Yuanzao as the right general, Shangshu Zuopushe.
Appoint Shangshu's right servant She Xieju as Youguanglu doctor.
Geng Yin appointed Lu Xu, Annan's general and Luling's king, as the central guard general and the army guard general.
In March of 1898, Prince Zhaoming's son Xiao Jing was made King of Wudan, and Lu Zhen was made King of Yiyang County.
In the fourth month of Xia Dynasty, Ding Mao appointed Hedong Wang Xiaoyu, the governor of Nanlangxie and Pengcheng counties, as the governor of Southern Xuzhou.
In May Bingshen, Xiao Jizhong, the former Yangzhou governor of Wuling, was appointed as the governor of Yangzhou.
In June, there is frost in Qushan, Qingzhou.
In the seventh month of Autumn and Guimao, the State of Wei sent an envoy to inquire about the matter and repair it.
In Jiyou, Xiao Rui, king of Yiyang, passed away.
This month, snow fell in Qingzhou, damaging crops.
In August Jiashen, the star Canopus appears.
On Xin Mao, the emperor went to Ashoka Temple to grant amnesty to the world.
In September, a great famine occurred in southern Yanzhou.
Qiyue, there are more than 2,000 hectares of wild rice barnyard in northern Xuzhou.
In the leap month of Jiazi, Xiao Yi, the general of Anxi and the governor of Jingzhou and the governor of Xiangshu, was promoted to the general of Zhenxi. Xiao Ji, the king of Wuling and the governor of Yangzhou, became the general of Anxi and the governor of Yizhou.
On Bingchen in October in winter, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
This year, there was a famine.
In the spring of the fourth year of the first month of Gengchen, General Xuancheng Wang Daqi of the Chinese Army was appointed as the General of the Chinese Army and the governor of Yangzhou.
In February Jihai, the emperor personally cultivated the fields.
In the third month of Wuyin, Henan State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In Guiwei, Ruirui State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the fifth month of Jiaxu, the State of Wei sent envoys to inquire about the matter and repair it.
At the end of the seventh month of autumn, Xiao Cha, the prefect of Nanlangxie and Pengcheng counties, appointed Yueyang Wang Xiaocha as the governor of Shu Yangzhou.
In Guihai, Shaoling offered a general amnesty to the world because of Li Yinzhi, the prisoner of Shuye, who sought the relics of the Tathagata's true body.
On the first day of the eighth month, an edict was issued to twelve prefectures including Nanyan, Beixu, Xixu, Shuxu, Qing, Ji, Nanbeiqing, Wu, Ren, Tong, and Sui. After experiencing famine, they pardoned the tax debts in arrears and did not levy this year's three tax adjustments.
On Dinghai, the twelfth month of winter, Jian Guozi assisted Pope Kan to present the fifty volumes of "Book of Rites and Yishu" he had written.
In the spring of the fifth year, on the first month of the first lunar month, Xiao Xu, the king of Luling, was appointed as the general of Hussar and the third division of Kaifu Yitong. General An You and Shangshu Zuopushe Xiao Yuanzao were appointed as the general of Zhongwei and the third division of Kaifu Yitong.
General Zhongquan and Danyang Yin He Jingrong served as Shangshu Ling in his original name, Zhang Zuan, Shangshu of the Ministry of Personnel, served as Shangshu Pushe, and Liu Ru, Shangshu of Duguan, served as Shangshu of the Ministry of Personnel.
summary:
In the third year, the emperor sacrificed to the southern suburbs. A fire at Zhuque Gate occurred. Dust fell. Xiao Lun was appointed. Canopus appeared. The emperor cultivated fields. He Jingrong and others were appointed. Lu Xu was appointed. Xiao Jing and Lu Zhen were made kings. Xiao Yu was appointed. Xiao Ji was appointed. Frost and snow damaged crops. Wei sent an envoy. Xiao Rui died. Canopus appeared. The emperor went to Ashoka Temple. A famine occurred. Wild rice grew. Xiao Yi and Xiao Ji were promoted. An earthquake occurred. A famine occurred. In the fourth year, Xiao Daqi was appointed. The emperor cultivated fields. Henan and Ruirui sent tribute. Wei sent an envoy. Xiao Cha was appointed. An amnesty was granted. Tax debts were pardoned. Kan presented the Book of Rites and Yishu. In the seventh year, the emperor sacrificed to the southern suburbs. Liang Mitai was appointed. The emperor cultivated fields. An earthquake occurred. Lu Xuan was appointed. Dangchang sent tribute. Zhili and others sent tribute. Wei sent an envoy. Wang Heli was appointed. Ruirui sent tribute. Liu Ru was appointed. An edict stopped enslaving women. Tax debts were exempted. An edict addressed land issues. Zang Dun was appointed. An edict criticized officials and banned abuses. Wei sent an envoy. The Shilin Pavilion was built.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
丁巳，御史中丞、参礼仪事贺琛奏： 今南北二郊及籍田往还并宜御辇，不复乘辂。
二郊请用素辇，籍田往还乘常辇，皆以侍中陪乘，停大将军及太仆。
诏付尚书博议施行。
改素辇名大同辇。
昭祀宗庙乘玉辇。
辛未，舆驾亲祠南郊，诏孝悌力田及州闾乡党称为善人者，各赐爵一级，并勒属所以时腾上。
三月己未，诏曰： 朕四听既阙，五识多蔽，画可外牒，或致纰缪。
凡是政事不便于民者，州郡县即时皆言，勿得欺隐。
如使怨讼，当境任失。
而今而后，以为永准。
秋七月己卯，以骠骑将军、开府仪同三司庐陵王续为荆州刺史，湘东王绎为护军将军、安右将军。
八月乙酉，扶南国遣使献生犀及方物。
九月庚申，以都官尚书到溉为吏部尚书。
冬十一月乙亥，魏遣使来聘。
十二月癸未，以吴郡太守谢举为中书监，新除中书令鄱阳王范为中领军。
六年春正月庚戌朔，曲赦司、豫、徐、兗四州。
二月己亥，舆驾亲耕籍田。
丙午，以江州刺史邵陵王纶为平西将军、郢州刺史，云麾将军豫章王欢为江州刺史。
秦郡献白鹿一。
夏四月癸未，诏曰： 命世兴王，嗣贤传业，声称不朽，人代徂迁，二宾以位，三恪义在，时事浸远，宿草榛芜，望古兴怀，言念怆然。
晋、宋、齐三代诸陵，有职司者勤加守护，勿令细民妄相侵毁。
作兵有少，补使充足。
前无守视，并可量给。
五月戊寅，以前青、冀二州刺史元罗为右光禄大夫。
translation: 
Ding Si, Yushi Zhongcheng and Censor He Chen reported: Now in the northern and southern suburbs, people should drive royal vehicles for sacrifices and going back and forth from their fields, and no longer need to be pulled by people.
Sacrifice in the second suburbs requires the use of uncarved vehicles. Ordinary vehicles are used to and from the fields, and they are all accompanied by servants, and the generals and servants are not required to accompany them.
The edict was delivered to the minister for extensive discussion and implementation.
The uncarved chariot was renamed Datong chariot.
Offering sacrifices to the ancestral temple takes a jade chariot.
In Xinwei, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs. Shao ordered his filial piety Li Tian and those who were called good people from his fellow villagers to each be given a first-level title, and the reasons were written and sent to the court in a timely manner.
At the end of the third month, the edict said: "My sight and hearing are lacking in all directions, and the five consciousnesses are often obscured. The foreign documents signed by the DPRK are sometimes wrong."
All states, counties and counties must promptly report any political affairs that are inconvenient for the people, and must not deceive or hide anything.
If a grievance lawsuit results, the local area bears the fault.
From now on, as a permanent rule.
On the ninth day of the seventh month of Autumn, Lu Ling, king of Luling, the general of Hussar and the third division of Kaifu Yitong, was appointed as the governor of Xingye, and Lu Qi, the king of Xiangshu, was appointed as the general of guarding the army and the general of Anyou.
In August Yiyou, the Funan Kingdom sent an envoy to pay tribute to live rhinoceros and local specialties.
In the ninth month of Gengshen, the official minister of the capital was appointed to Ji as the minister of the Ministry of official affairs.
In the eleventh month of winter, Yihai, the commission sent an envoy to inquire about the matter and repair it.
At the end of the twelfth month of the lunar month, the prefect Yu and Deng appointed Yaobi as the supervisor of the Zhongshu, and the new Zhongshu Ling Youkenwang Luba was appointed as the leader of the Zhongshu.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the sixth year of Gengxu, prisoners in Si, Yu, Xu and Yan states were pardoned.
In February Jihai, the emperor personally cultivated the fields.
On Bingwu, King Lu Yao of Shaoling, the governor of the silk industry, was appointed as the governor of Pingxi and Jianye, and General Yunhui and Wang Xiaohuan of Yuzhang were appointed as the governor of Jiangzhou.
Qin County presented a white deer as a tribute.
At the end of the fourth month of the Xia Dynasty, the edict said: The king's career rises in accordance with the times, and the virtuous people pass on their deeds to their heirs, and their reputation will never be erased. Generations change, guests with the second surname are in the throne, and the principle of three generations of descendants being granted titles still remains. The world is gradually becoming distant and the cemeteries are deserted. Thinking about ancient times makes me feel nostalgic and sad when I talk about them.
For all the tombs of the Jin, Song and Qi dynasties, the relevant officials must guard and protect them conscientiously, and do not allow the common people to invade and destroy them at will.
The number of guard soldiers is small and can be supplemented in full.
Those who have not been guarded before can be rationed at their own discretion.
In the fifth month of Wuyin, Yuanluo, the governor of Qianqing and Jizhou, was appointed as Dr. Youguanglu.
summary:
In the fifth year, Xiao Xu and others were appointed. He Chen reported on sacrifices. The emperor sacrificed to the southern suburbs. An edict called for honest reporting. Lu Ling and Lu Qi were appointed. Funan sent tribute. Ji was appointed. Wei sent an envoy. Yao Bi and Lu Ba were appointed.

Chunk 13: 
original: 
己卯，河南王遣使献马及方物。
六月丁未，平阳县献白鹿一。
秋七月丁亥，魏遣使来聘。
八月戊午，赦天下。
辛未，诏曰： 经国有体，必询诸朝，所以尚书置令、仆、丞、郎，旦旦上朝，以议时事，前共筹怀，然后奏闻。
顷者不尔，每有疑事，倚立求决。
古人有云，主非尧舜，何得发言便是。
是故放勋之圣，犹咨四岳，重华之睿，亦待多士。
岂朕寡德，所能独断。
自今尚书中有疑事，前于朝堂参议，然后启闻，不得习常。
其军机要切，前须谘审，自依旧典。
盘盘国遣使献方物。
九月，移安州置定远郡，受北徐州都督，定远郡改属安州。
始平太守崔硕表献嘉禾一茎十二穗。
戊戌，特进、左光禄大夫、司空袁昂薨。
冬十一月己卯，曲赦京邑。
十二月壬子，江州刺史豫章王欢薨。
以护军将军湘东王绎为镇南将军、江州刺史。
置桂州于湘州始安郡，受湘州督；省南桂林等二十四郡，悉改属桂州。
七年春正月辛巳，舆驾亲祠南郊，赦天下，其有流移及失桑梓者，各还田宅，蠲课五年。
辛丑，舆驾亲祠明堂。
二月乙巳，以行宕昌王梁弥泰为平西将军、河凉二州刺史、宕昌王。
辛亥，舆驾躬耕籍田。
乙卯，京师地震。
丁巳，以中领军、鄱阳王范为镇北将军、雍州刺史。
三月乙亥，宕昌王遣使献马及方物。
高丽、百济、滑国各遣使献方物。
夏四月戊申，魏遣使来聘。
五月癸己，以侍中南康王会理兼领军。
秋九月戊寅，芮芮国遣使献方物。
冬十月丙午，以侍中刘孺为吏部尚书。
translation: 
In Ji Mao, the King of Henan sent envoys to offer tribute horses and local specialties.
At the end of the sixth month, Huyang County presented a white deer as tribute.
In the seventh month of Autumn and Dinghai, the State of Wei sent envoys to inquire about the matter and repair it.
On the Wuwu day of the eighth month, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
Xinwei, Shaoling said: There are laws for governing the country, and officials in the court must be consulted. Therefore, Shangshu Province has appointed Ling, Pushe, Cheng, and Lang to go to court every day to discuss current affairs, plan together, and then report.
This has not been the case recently. Whenever there is a difficult matter, a decision is sought immediately.
The ancients said that if the emperor is not Yao or Shun, how can he speak correctly?
Therefore, with the sage of Fangxun, he also consulted the four mountains, and with the wisdom of Chonghua, he also relied on scholars.
How can I, with my meager virtue, be able to make my own decision?
From now on, if there are any difficult matters in the minister's book, everyone will be summoned to discuss in the court first, and then the report will be announced. We cannot follow the past.
Military secrets and national affairs previously required consultation and review for accuracy, but now they are naturally handled in accordance with the old regulations.
Panpan State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In September, he moved to Anzhou and set up Dingyuan County, accepting the leadership of Northern Xuzhou, and changed his office to Xuanye.
Cui Xi, the prefect of Jiancuo, made a memorial offering of strong rice with one stem and twelve ears.
In 1898, Te Jin, Dr. Zuo Guanglu, and Sikong Yuan Ang passed away.
On the 11th day of the 11th month of winter, the prisoners in the capital were pardoned.
In December of Renzi, Xiao Huan, king of Yuzhang, the governor of Liaozhou, passed away.
The general of the army guard, Wang Zhong, Lu Qian was appointed as the general of Zhennan and the governor of Liaoye.
A hanging industry was set up in Languisu in Yiye, and it accepted the leadership of Laoye; Mu Guai was abolished and twenty-four counties were merged, and all were changed to belong to Guizhou.
In the spring of the seventh year, on the first month of Xinsi, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to the southern suburbs and granted amnesty to the people. Those who had wandered or lost their hometowns would have their properties and houses returned, and they would be exempted from taxes for five years.
Xin Chou, the emperor personally offered sacrifices in the Mingtang.
In the second month of Yisi, Liang Mitai, the acting king of Danchang, was appointed as General Pingxi, governor of Huiliang two states, and Shi Dangong.
In Xinhai, the emperor personally cultivated his land.
On Yi Mao, an earthquake occurred in the capital.
Ding Si appointed Zhong Lingjun and Youdan Wang Luxuan as the general of Zhenbei and the governor of Yiye.
In the third month of Yihai, King Dangchang sent an envoy to pay tribute to horses and local specialties.
Zhili, Genliao, and Chuili each sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
In the fourth month of Xia, Wushen, Wei sent envoys to Tongjian to repair it.
In the fifth month of Guisi, Wang Heli, the servant of Lu Chen, was appointed as the leader.
In the ninth month of autumn, Wuyin, Ruirui State sent envoys to pay tribute to local specialties.
On Bingwu in the tenth month of winter, Liu Ru, the servant, was appointed as the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
summary:
In the sixth year, prisoners were pardoned. The emperor cultivated fields. Xiao Yao and Xiao Huan were appointed. A white deer was presented. An edict protected tombs of previous dynasties. Yuan Luo was appointed. The King of Henan sent tribute. A white deer was presented. Wei sent an envoy. A general amnesty was granted. An edict reformed court discussions. Panpan sent tribute. Anzhou was moved. Cui Xi presented rice. Yuan Ang died. Prisoners were pardoned. Xiao Huan died. Lu Qian was appointed. Counties were merged.

Chunk 15: 
original: 
魏遣使来聘。
丙辰，于宫城西立士林馆，延集学者。
是岁，交州土民李贲攻刺史萧谘，谘输赂，得还越州。
八年春正月，安成郡民刘敬躬挟左道以反，内史萧说委郡东奔，敬躬据郡，进攻庐陵，取豫章，妖党遂至数万，前逼新淦、柴桑。
二月戊戌，江州刺史湘东王绎遣中兵曹子郢讨之。
三月戊辰，大破之，擒敬躬送京师，斩于建康市。
是月，于江州新蔡、高塘立颂平屯，垦作蛮田。
遣越州刺史陈侯、罗州刺史宁巨、安州刺史李智、爱州刺史阮汉，同征李贲于交州。
九年春闰月丙申，地震，生毛。
二月甲戌，使江州民三十家出奴婢一户，配送司州。
三月，以太子詹事谢举为尚书仆射。
夏四月，林邑王破德州，攻李贲，贲将范修又破林邑王于九德，林邑王败走。
冬十一月辛丑，安西将军、益州刺史武陵王纪进号征西将军、开府仪同三司。
十二月壬戌，领军将军臧盾卒；以轻车将军河东王誉为领军将军。
十年春正月，李贲于交址窃位号，署置百官。
三月甲午，舆驾幸兰陵，谒建宁陵。
辛丑，至修陵。
壬寅，诏曰： 朕自违桑梓，五十余载，乃眷东顾，靡日不思。
今四方款关，海外有截，狱讼稍简，国务小闲，始获展敬园陵，但增感恸。
故乡老少，接踵远至，情貌孜孜，若归于父，宜有以慰其此心。
并可锡位一阶，并加颁赉。
所经县邑，无出今年租赋。
监所责民，蠲复二年。
并普赉内外从官军主左右钱米各有差。
因作《还旧乡》诗。
癸卯，诏园陵职司，恭事勤劳，并锡位一阶，并加颁赉。
丁未，仁威将军、南徐州刺史临川王正义进号安东将军。
己酉，幸京口城北固楼，改名北顾。
庚戌，幸回宾亭，宴帝乡故老，及所经近县奉迎候者少长数千人，各赉钱二千。
夏四月乙卯，舆驾至自兰陵。
translation: 
The State of Wei sent envoys to inquire about the matter and repair it.
Bingchen built the Shilin Pavilion in the west of the palace city and recruited scholars.
In the first year of the Han Dynasty, Li Ben, a local citizen in Jiaozhou, attacked Xiao Zhen, the governor. Xiao Zhen delivered the goods and was able to return to Yuezhou.
In the spring of the eighth year of the lunar month, Liu Jinggong, a commoner in Ancheng County, rebelled by relying on side factions. Xiao Xiao, the internal historian, abandoned the county and fled eastward.
In February of 1898, Xiao Yi, the governor of Jiangzhou and King of Xiangshu, sent his soldiers to join the army to attack Jinggong.
On the Wuchen day of March, Jing Gong was defeated, captured and sent to the capital, where he was beheaded in Jiankang Market.
This month, Songping Tun was established in Xincai and Gaotang, Jiangzhou, to cultivate barbarian fields.
He sent the governors of Yuezhou, Chen Hou, the governors of Mo, Kongdan, Kuiwang, and Xi, to attack Li Ben in Jiaozhou.
In the spring of the ninth year, in the leap month Bingshen, an earthquake occurred and hairy things grew.
In the second month of Jiaxu, thirty households of the Liao people were ordered to have a slave girl, and they were assigned to Danye.
In March, Prince Zhan Shiyin was appointed as Shangshu Pushe.
In the fourth month of summer, King Linyi captured Langye and attacked Kuitong. Kuitong's general Lian Kai came again: You defeated King Tardan, but King Fuken failed and escaped.
In Xinchou, the eleventh month of winter, Wang Yunji, the general of Anxi and the governor of Yizhou, Wuwu, was promoted to the title of General of the Expedition to the West and Kaifu Yitong, the Third Division.
In the 12th month of Renxu, the leading general Zang Dun died; he appointed the light chariot general Xiao Yu of Hedong as the leading general.
In the spring and first month of the tenth year, Li Ben stole the name in Jiaosha and set up hundreds of officials.
In March during the Sino-Japanese War, the emperor went to Lanling to pay homage to Jianling Mausoleum.
Xinchou arrived at Xiuling.
Renyin, the edict said: It has been more than fifty years since I left my hometown, and I miss returning to the East. There is not a day that goes by that I don’t think about it.
Now that the four sides have surrendered, overseas princes are obeying orders, cases and lawsuits have gradually decreased, and national affairs have a little leisure, they can only go to the mausoleum to express their respects, which only adds to the sentimentality and sorrow.
Old and young people from my hometown came one after another from afar, with diligent and diligent expressions, as if they were returning to their father's side, which should be enough to comfort my heart.
All can be given a first-level official position and be rewarded.
The counties and towns it passes through will not pay this year's rent.
If the supervisory department has collected it from the public, it will be exempted from rent for two years.
And generally reward internal and external officials and military leaders in varying amounts of money and rice.
Therefore, he wrote the poem "Returning to the Hometown".
Guimao ordered the cemetery authorities to grant first-level official positions and rewards for those who were respectful and diligent.
Ding Wei, General Renwei and the governor of South Xuzhou, Linchuan Wang Zhengyi, was promoted to General Anshu.
In Jiyou, the emperor went to Beigu Tower in Jingkou City and changed the name of the building to Beigu Tower.
Gengxu went to Huibin Pavilion and hosted a banquet for thousands of people, old and young, from the emperor's hometown and nearby counties where he passed. Each of them was rewarded with two thousand coins.
In the fourth month of summer, Yi Mao, the emperor returned from Lanling.
summary:
In the first year of the Han reign, Li Ben attacked Xiao Zhen. In the eighth year, Liu Jinggong rebelled. Xiao Yi sent troops. Jinggong was defeated and executed. Songping Tun was established. Chen Hou was sent to attack Li Ben. In the ninth year, an earthquake occurred. Liao people were assigned. Yin was appointed. Linyi attacked. Wang Yunji was promoted. Zang Dun died. Xiao Yu was appointed. In the tenth year, Li Ben rebelled. The emperor visited Lanling. An edict expressed nostalgia and granted rewards. The poem "Returning to the Hometown" was written. Xiao Zheng was promoted. The emperor visited Beigu Tower. A banquet was held. The emperor returned. Relief was provided. He Jingrong was dismissed. An edict pardoned sins and exempted taxes. Heavy snow fell.

Chunk 16: 
original: 
诏鳏寡孤独尤贫者赡恤各有差。
五月丁酉，尚书令何敬容免。
秋九月己丑，诏曰： 今兹远近，雨泽调适，其获已及，冀必万箱，宜使百姓因斯安乐。
凡天下罪无轻重，已发觉未发觉，讨捕未擒者，皆赦宥之。
侵割耗散官物，无问多少，亦悉原除。
田者荒废、水旱不作、无当时文列，应追税者，并作田不登公格者，并停。
各备台州以文最逋殿，罪悉从原。
其有因饥逐食，离乡去土，悉听复业，蠲课五年。
冬十二月，大雪，平地三尺。
十一年春三月庚辰，诏曰： 皇王在昔，泽风未远，故端居玄扈，拱默岩廊。
自大道既沦，浇波斯逝，动竞日滋，情伪弥作。
朕负扆君临，百年将半。
宵漏未分，躬劳政事；白日西浮，不遑飧饭。
退居犹于布素，含咀匪过藜藿。
宁以万乘为贵，四海为富；唯欲亿兆康宁，下民安乂。
虽复三思行事，而百虑多失。
凡远近分置、内外条流、四方所立屯、传、邸、冶，市埭、桁渡，津税、田园，新旧守宰，游军戍逻，有不便于民者，尚书州郡各速条上，当随言除省，以舒民患。
夏四月，魏遣使来聘。
冬十月己未，诏曰： 尧、舜以来，便开赎刑，中年依古，许罪身入赀，吏下因此，不无奸猾，所以一日复敕禁断。
川流难壅，人心惟危，既乖内典慈悲之义，又伤外教好生之德。
《书》云： 与杀不辜，宁失不经。
可复开罪身，皆听入赎。
translation: 
Shaoling provided relief and pensions for the widowed, lonely and extremely poor people in varying amounts.
On Dingyou in the fifth month, the minister ordered He Jingrong to be dismissed from his post.
In the ninth month of autumn, Jichou, Shaoling said: This year, the rainfall in various places is moderate, and the harvest time has arrived. I hope that tens of thousands of boxes of grain will be accumulated, so that the people will be happy.
All sins in the world, regardless of their severity, whether they have been discovered or not, and those who have been arrested but not caught, will be pardoned and forgiven.
Anyone who embezzles or consumes government supplies, no matter how much, will be forgiven and exempted.
If the land is abandoned, if there is no farming during floods or droughts, if there is no written report at that time, the tax should be recovered, and if the cultivated land is not registered in the government books, the tax will be stopped.
In each Taizhou, those who are listed in the lower grades due to poor academic performance and arrears in taxes will be leniently forgiven.
Those who left their hometown due to famine and went to other places to seek food were allowed to resume their industries and be exempted from rent and taxes for five years.
In December, heavy snow falls from the sky, and the snow is three feet deep on the ground.
In the spring of the eleventh year, in the third month of Gengchen, Shaoling said: In the past, the Yellow Emperor's kindness was not far away, so he lived peacefully in Xuanhu Mountain and was silent in the court.
Since the fall of the avenue, simple customs have disappeared, competition has grown day by day, and hypocrisy has appeared more and more.
I rule the world with an axe-patterned screen behind me, and I will meet half of it in a hundred years.
In the middle of the night, he was still busy with political affairs in person; the sun was setting, and it was too late to have dinner.
When he retired from court, he was still wearing commoner clothes and only tasted wild vegetables.
No matter how noble one is, occupying the whole world is considered rich; he just wants to make the people happy and peaceful, and the small people to be stable and peaceful.
Even if you think twice before acting, you will still make many mistakes.
If it is inconvenient for the people to set up distant and near divisions, separate internal and external regulations, establish farms, transfer houses, residences, and smelters in all directions, urban earth dams, pontoon bridges, ferry taxes, farmlands, new and old county magistrates, and mobile troops for guarding and patrolling, the ministers, prefectures and counties should quickly make a list of them, and explain the omissions at the same time, so as to eliminate the suffering of the people.
In the fourth month of summer, Wei sent an envoy to inquire about the matter and repair it.
At the end of the tenth month of winter, Shao Ling said: Since Yao and Shun, redemption punishments have been introduced. After taking the throne, according to ancient times, criminals were allowed to hand over their assets. Some lower-level officials took advantage of this opportunity and could not prevent the occurrence of cunning and cunning, so one day not long ago, it was banned again.
The water flow is difficult to block, and people's hearts are turbulent. This not only violates the Buddhist teachings of compassion, but also damages the Confucian virtue of caring for living beings.
"Shang Shu" said: Rather than killing innocent people, it is better to let those who do not keep the right path go.
Can open a way out for the guilty again. All are allowed to lose money to redeem themselves.
summary:
In the eleventh year, an edict reflected on governance. Wei sent an envoy. An edict allowed redemption of crimes.

Chunk 17: 
original: 
中大同元年春正月丁未，曲阿县建陵隧口石骐驎动，有大蛇斗隧中，其一被伤奔走。
癸丑，交州刺史杨票克交趾嘉宁城，李贲窜入獠洞，交州平。
三月乙巳，大赦天下：凡主守割盗、放散官物，及以军粮器甲，凡是赦所不原者，起十一年正月以前，皆悉从恩，十一年正月已后，悉原加责；其或为事逃叛流移，因饥以后亡乡失土，可听复业，蠲课五年，停其徭役；其被拘之身，各还本郡，旧业若在，皆悉还之。
庚戌，法驾出同泰寺大会，停寺省，讲《金字三慧经》。
夏四月丙戌，于同泰寺解讲，设法会。
大赦，改元。
孝悌力田为父后者赐爵一级，赉宿卫文武各有差。
是夜，同泰寺灾。
六月辛巳，竟天有声，如风雨相击薄。
秋七月辛酉，以武昌王嵒为东扬州刺史。
甲子，诏曰： 禽兽知母而不知父，无赖子弟过于禽兽，至于父母并皆不知。
多触王宪，致及老人。
耆年禁执，大可伤愍。
自今有犯罪者，父母祖父母勿坐。
唯大逆不预今恩。
丙寅，诏曰： 朝四而暮三，众狙皆喜，名实未亏，而喜怒为用。
顷闻外间多用九陌钱，陌减则物贵，陌足则物贱，非物有贵贱，是心有颠倒。
至于远方，日更滋甚。岂直国有异政，乃至家有殊俗，徒乱王制，无益民财。
自今可通用足陌钱。
令书行后，百日为期，若犹有犯，男子谪运，女子质作，并同三年。
八月丁丑，东扬州刺史武昌王嵒薨。
translation: 
At the end of the first month of the spring of the first year of the reign of Emperor Hui, the stone phoenix was shaking at the entrance of the tomb passage of Di Huixun. There were big snakes fighting in the tomb passage, and one of them was injured and escaped.
Guichou, Jiaozhou governor Yang Guo captured Jianing City in Jiaozhi, Li Ben fled to Quliao Cave, and Jiaozhou was pacified.
On the Yisi day of the third month, a general amnesty will be granted to the whole country: all those who are responsible for guarding and seizing thieves, discarding and losing government supplies, and military supplies and equipment, and those not forgiven by the pardon order, will be given leniency before the first month of the eleventh year; after the first month of the eleventh year, all will be forgiven and punished Punishment; if someone escapes and rebels and lives in a foreign country, and loses land after leaving his hometown due to famine, he can be allowed to restore his property, be exempted from taxes for five years, and stop collecting corvee; those who are arrested can return to their respective counties, and if their old fields and houses are still there, all their old houses will be returned to them.
In Gengxu, the emperor drove back to Taigui to attend a Dharma assembly. He stopped in the temple province and explained the "Golden-Charactered Three Wisdom Sutra".
In the fourth month of Xia Bingxu, Buddhist scriptures were taught at Tongtai Temple and a Dharma assembly was established.
Amnesty was given to the whole world and the year was changed.
Those who were filial to Li Tian and those who were their father's heirs were given first-level titles, and the rewards for the civil and military officials who guarded them varied.
That night, Tongtai Temple suffered a fire.
At Xinsi in June, there were sounds all over the sky, like the collision of wind and rain.
In Xinyou, the seventh month of autumn, Xiao Jing, the king of Wuchang, was appointed as the governor of Shu Yangzhou.
Jiazi, the edict said: The beasts know their mother but not their father; the treacherous and tyrannical children are better than the beasts, so that they do not even know their parents.
They often violate national laws and harm the elderly.
The old man is imprisoned, so you can feel sad and sympathetic.
From now on, if someone commits a crime, his parents, grandparents, and grandparents should not sit together.
Only treasonous crimes will not receive today's grace.
Bingyin, the edict said: four in the morning and three in the evening, a group of monkeys are happy, the name is not negative in essence, but the mood of joy and anger is meaningful.
Recently, I heard that people often use Jiumo money. If the amount of money is reduced, the goods will be expensive, and if the amount of money is sufficient, the prices will be low. This is not because goods are high or low, but because people's hearts are turned upside down.
As for remote areas, it is becoming more and more serious. It is just that the country has different policies, or simply there are different customs in the family. It only disrupts the national system and does not help people increase their wealth.
From now on a full amount of coins can be passed.
After the law comes into effect, a period of one hundred days will be set. If there are still violations, the men will be sentenced to transportation and the women will be sentenced to hard labor, both for three years.
In August Ding Chou, the governor of Shu Yangzhou, Wuchang Wang Xiaojing, died.
summary:
In the first year of the Hui reign, a stone phoenix shook. Snakes fought. Yang Guo pacified Jiaozhou. A general amnesty was granted. The emperor attended a Dharma assembly. Buddhist scriptures were taught. An amnesty was granted. Tongtai Temple caught fire. Sounds were heard. Xiao Jing was appointed. An edict exempted relatives from punishment. An edict regulated coinage. Xiao Jing died. Xiao Lun was appointed. Kepan Chao sent tribute. Liu Zhe died. Xiao Cha was appointed.

Chunk 20: 
original: 
辛亥，曲赦交、爱、德三州。
癸丑，诏曰： 为国在于多士，宁下寄于得人。
朕暗于行事，尤阙治道，孤立在上，如临深谷。
凡尔在朝，咸思匡救，献替可否，用相启沃。
班下方岳，傍求俊乂，穷其屠钓，尽其岩穴，以时奏闻。
是月，两月夜见。
秋八月乙未，以右卫将军硃异为中领军。
戊戌，侯景举兵反，擅攻马头、木栅、荆山等戍。
甲辰，以安前将军、开府仪同三司邵陵王纶都督众军讨景。
曲赦南豫州。
九月丙寅，加左光禄大夫元罗镇右将军。
冬十月，侯景袭谯州，执刺史萧泰。
丁未，景进攻历阳，太守庄铁降之。
戊申，以新除光禄大夫临贺王正德为平北将军，都督京师诸军，屯丹阳郡。
己酉，景自横江济于采石。
辛亥，景师至京，临贺王正德率众附贼。
十一月辛酉，贼攻陷东府城，害南浦侯萧推、中军司马杨暾。
庚辰，邵陵王纶帅武州刺史萧弄璋、前谯州刺史赵伯超等，入援京师，顿钟山爱敬寺。
乙酉，纶进军湖头，与贼战，败绩。
丙戌，安北将军鄱阳王范遣世子嗣、雄信将军裴之高等帅众入援，次于张公洲。
十二月戊申，天西北中裂，有光如火。
尚书令谢举卒。
丙辰，司州刺史柳仲礼、前衡州刺史韦粲、高州刺史李迁仕、前司州刺史羊鸦仁等并帅军入援，推仲礼为大都督。
三年春正月丁巳朔，柳仲礼帅众分据南岸。
是日，贼济军于青塘，袭破韦粲营，粲拒战死。
庚申，卲陵王纶、东扬州刺史临成公大连等帅兵集南岸。
乙丑，中领军硃异卒。
丙寅，以司农卿傅岐为中领军。
戊辰，高州刺史李迁仕、天门太守樊文皎进军青溪东，为贼所破，文皎死之。
壬午，荧惑守心。
乙酉，太白昼见。
二月丁未南兗州刺史南康王会理、前青、冀二州刺史湘潭侯萧退帅江州之众，顿于兰亭苑。
庚戌，安北将军、合州刺史鄱阳王范以本号开府仪同三司。
三月戊午，前司州刺史羊鸦仁等进军东府北，与贼战，大败。
translation: 
In Xinhai, prisoners in Jiao, Ai, and De were pardoned.
Guichou, the edict said: Governing a country depends on having many talents, and the peace of the people depends on the proper employment of people.
I am not familiar with cooking affairs, especially lack of management methods. Being alone on the throne is like facing an abyss and valley.
All officials in the government must think about corrections and remedies, offer loyal advice, and inspire others.
Announced to the governors of various states, they searched extensively for outstanding talents, collected talents from the footprints of butchers and fishermen, exhausted the mountains and caves, and submitted reports in a timely manner.
This month, two moons appear at night.
At the end of August in autumn, Zhu Yi, the right-guard general, was appointed as the leader of the central army.
During the Wuxu period, Hou Jing rebelled and attacked castles such as Ma Tou, Muzha and Jingshan at will.
On Jiachen, General An Qian, Kaifu Yi and Shaoling King Xiao Lun of the Third Division were appointed to lead all armies to attack Hou Jing.
Pardon the prisoners in Southern Yuzhou.
In September Bingyin, Yuan Luo, the doctor of Zuo Guanglu, was awarded the title of General Zhenyou.
In the tenth month of winter, Hou Jing attacked Qiaozhou and captured Xiao Tai, the governor.
At the end of Ding Dynasty, Hou Jing marched to attack Liyang, and the prefect Zhuang Tie surrendered to Hou Jing.
Wushen appointed the new Guanglu doctor Linhe Wang Zhengde as General Pingbei to command all the troops in the capital and garrison Danyang County.
In Jiyou, Hou Jing crossed the Hengjiang River to quarry stones.
In Xinhai, Hou Jing's army arrived in the capital, and Linhe Wang Zhengde led his army to attach to the rebels.
In November of Xinyou, the bandits captured Shufucheng and killed Xiao Tui, Marquis of Nanpu, and Yang Dun, Sima of the Chinese Army.
In Gengchen, Xiao Lun, the king of Shaoling, led Xiao Nongzhang, the governor of Wuzhou, Tang Bochao, the former governor of Qiaozhou, and others into the capital for rescue, and stayed at Aijing Temple in Zhongshan.
In Yiyou, Xiao Lun marched to Hutou, fought with the bandits, and was defeated.
In Bingxu, Anbei General Poyang Wang Xiaofan sent his son Xiao Si, Xiongxin General Pei Zhigao and others to lead troops to Beijing for rescue and stationed in Zhanggongzhou.
In December of Wushen, the northwest sky split in the middle, and there was light like a flame.
Shangshu ordered Xie Ju to die.
In Bingchen, Liu Zhongli, the governor of Sizhou, Wei Can, the former governor of Hengzhou, Li Qianshi, the governor of Gaozhou, Guiyaren, the former governor of Sizhou, etc. all led their troops to Beijing for rescue and elected Zhongli as the governor.
On the first day of the first month of the third year of spring, Liu Zhongli led his troops to occupy the south bank.
On this day, the thieves crossed the army in Qingtang and attacked Weisai's camp in a sneak attack. Wei Can resisted until he died in the battle.
Gengshen, Shaoling King Xiao Lun, Dongyangzhou Governor Lincheng Gong Dalian and others led soldiers to gather on the south bank.
In Yichou, Zhu Yi, the leader of the army, passed away.
Bingyin appointed Sinongqing Fu Qi as the leader of the army.
In Wuchen, Li Qianshi, the governor of Gaozhou, and Fansai, the governor of Yuya, marched to the east of Zhihuan. They were defeated by the bandits and Wen Jiao died in battle.
On Renwu, Mars stayed in the heart.
Yiyou, Taibai Venus appears during the day.
At the end of February, King Huili of Nankang, the governor of Southern Yanzhou, and Xiangtan Hou Xiaotui, the governor of the former Qingji Prefecture, led the troops of Jiangzhou and stayed in Lantingyuan.
In Gengxu, General Anbei and Poyang Wang Xiaofan, governor of Hezhou, opened the Yitong Sansi Division in his original position.
On the Wuwu day of March, former Sizhou governor Yang Yaren and others marched to the north of Shufu, fought with the rebels, and were severely defeated.
summary:
In the second year, officials were to recruit talents. Wei captured Guoyang. Xie Ju and Wang Ke were appointed. Yang Yaren and Yang Sida fled. Hou Jing was appointed. Xiao Fan was appointed. The King of Goryeo died. Xiao Lun and Xiao Yuanzao were appointed. Li Ben was beheaded. An edict sought honest people. Xiao Yu was appointed. Xiao Lun and Zhang Zan were appointed. Prisoners were pardoned. An edict sought talents. Two moons appeared. Zhu Yi was appointed. Hou Jing rebelled. Xiao Lun was sent to attack. Prisoners were pardoned. Yuan Luo was appointed. Hou Jing captured Xiao Tai. Zhuang Tie surrendered. Xiao Zhengde was appointed. Hou Jing crossed the river. The capital was attacked. Xiao Zhengde defected. Shufucheng was captured. Xiao Lun entered the capital. Xiao Lun was defeated. Xiao Fan sent troops. The sky split. Xie Ju died. Liu Zhongli and others arrived.

Chunk 21: 
original: 
己未，皇太子妃王氏薨。
丁卯，贼攻陷宫城，纵兵大掠。
己巳，贼矫诏遣石城公大款解外援军。
庚午，侯景自为都督中外诸军事、大丞相、录尚书。
辛未，援军各退散。
丙子，荧惑守心。
壬午，新除中领军傅岐卒。
夏四月己丑，京师地震。
丙申，地又震。
己酉，高祖以所求不供，忧愤寝疾。
是月，青、冀二州刺史明少遐、东徐州刺史湛海珍、北青州刺史王奉伯各举州附于魏。
五月丙辰，高祖崩于净居殿，时年八十六。
辛巳，迁大行皇帝梓宫于太极前殿。
冬十一月，追尊为武皇帝，庙曰高祖。
乙卯，葬于修陵。
高祖生知淳孝。
年六岁，献皇太后崩，水浆不入口三日，哭泣哀苦，有过成人，内外亲党，咸加敬异。
及丁文皇帝忧，时为齐随王谘议，随府在荆镇，仿佛奉闻，便投劾星驰，不复寝食，倍道就路，愤风惊浪，不暂停止。
高祖形容本壮，及还至京都，销毁骨立，亲表士友，不复识焉。
望宅奉讳，气绝久之，每哭辄欧血数升。
服内不复尝米，惟资大麦，日止二溢。
拜扫山陵，涕泪所洒，松草变色。
及居帝位，即于钟山造大爱敬寺，青溪边造智度寺，又于台内立至敬等殿。
又立七庙堂，月中再过，设净馔。
每至展拜，恒涕泗滂沲，哀动左右。
加以文思钦明，能事毕究，少而笃学，洞达儒玄。
虽万机多务，犹卷不辍手，燃烛侧光，常至戊夜。
造《制旨孝经义》，《周易讲疏》，及六十四卦、二《系》、《文言》、《序卦》等义，《乐社义》，《毛诗答问》，《春秋答问》，《尚书大义》，《中庸讲疏》，《孔子正言》，《老子讲疏》，凡二百余卷，并正先儒之迷，开古圣之旨。
王侯朝臣皆奉表质疑，高祖皆为解释。
修饰国学，增广生员，立五馆，置《五经》博士。
天监初，则何佟之、贺蒨、严植之、明山宾等覆述制旨，并撰吉凶军宾嘉五礼，凡一千余卷，高祖称制断疑。
translation: 
Before long, the Crown Princess Wang passed away.
On Ding Mao, the bandit army captured the palace city and allowed the soldiers to plunder wantonly.
At this time, the thieves pretended to be an imperial edict and sent a large sum of money from Duke Shi Cheng to disband the reinforcements outside.
In Gengwu, Hou Jing claimed to be the commander-in-chief of all military affairs at home and abroad, the prime minister, and the minister of records.
At Xinwei, the reinforcements retreated and dispersed.
Bingzi, Mars stays in the heart.
On Renwu, the new leader Fu Qi passed away.
In the fourth month of summer, there was an earthquake in the capital.
Bingshen, the earth shook again.
In Jiyou, Emperor Gaozu fell ill because he was worried and angry because he could not provide what he asked for.
In this month, Ming Shaoxia, the governor of Qingji Prefecture, Zhan Haizhen, the governor of East Xuzhou, and Wang Fengbo, the governor of Northern Qingzhou, each offered their state cities to attach themselves to Wei.
On Bingchen in the fifth month, Emperor Gaozu passed away in Jingju Hall at the age of eighty-six.
Xin Si moved the coffin of Emperor Daxing to the front hall of Tai Chi.
In November of winter, Emperor Daxing was honored as Emperor Wu, and his temple name was Gaozu.
Yimao was buried in Xiu Ling.
Gaozu was born honest and filial.
When he was six years old, the Empress Dowager Xian passed away. He refused to drink water and rice soup for three days. He cried and suffered in pain. He was more than an adult, and his relatives both inside and outside were respected and surprised.
When Emperor Wen passed away, he was appointed as the advisor to King Yilidi and joined the army. He accompanied the army to the town of Jingzhou. When he heard the news, he handed in his resignation and hurried on at night without eating or sleeping. He traveled day and night, and there were strong winds and waves, and he did not stop for a short time.
Gaozu was originally strong and strong, but when he returned to the capital, he was so thin that his relatives and friends no longer recognized him.
I visited the house to worship my father, passed out for a long time, and vomited several liters of blood every time I cried.
During the period of mourning, rice is no longer eaten, only barley is eaten, only more than two liters per day.
Paying homage to the mausoleum, where the tears fell, the pine trees and weeds changed their colors.
When he was on the throne, he built the Great Aijing Temple in Zhongdan, the Shuqing Temple in Yixuanbian, and the Zijing and other halls in the court.
Seven temples were also set up, and they went there twice a month to display vegetarian food.
Whenever he bowed down, he would burst into tears, and his sadness would move everyone around him.
In addition, he has a quick mind and can conduct in-depth research on everything. He was fond of learning when he was young and was proficient in Confucianism and Taoism.
Although there are many things to do, he never leaves his hand to return books, lighting candles and studying by light, often until the fifth watch.
He wrote "Zhizhi Xiaojing Yi", "Book of Changes", as well as sixty-four hexagrams, two chapters of "Xici", "Wenyan", "Preface" and other chapters, "Yue She Yi", "Mao Shi Answers", "Spring and Autumn Answers", "Shang Shu Dayi", "The Doctrine of the Doctrine", "Confucius' True Words", "Laozi's Notes", a total of more than 200 volumes, all of which corrected the confusion of the previous Confucians and revealed the will of the ancient sages.
The princes and courtiers presented memorials to ask questions, and Emperor Gaozu explained them to them.
It also built the School of Decorative Guozi, increased the number of students, established five libraries, and established a doctorate in the "Five Classics".
In the early years of Tianjian, He Tongzhi, He Chang, Yan Zhizhi, Mingshan Bin and others expounded the emperor's will, and wrote the five rites of good fortune, bad luck, military, guest, and Jia, a total of more than a thousand volumes. As the emperor, Gaozu made decisions for him.
summary:
In the third year, Liu Zhongli occupied the south bank. Wei Can died. Xiao Lun and Dalian gathered. Zhu Yi died. Fu Qi was appointed. Li Qianshi and Fansai were defeated. Mars stayed in the heart. Venus appeared. Xiao Hui and Xiao Tui arrived. Xiao Fan was appointed. Yang Yaren was defeated. The crown princess died. The palace was captured. Hou Jing claimed power. Reinforcements dispersed. Fu Qi died. An earthquake occurred. The emperor fell ill. Ming Shaoxia and others defected to Wei. The emperor died at age 86. He was honored as Emperor Wu. He was buried in Xiu Ling. The emperor was filial, learned, and frugal. He wrote many works and promoted Buddhism. He was diligent in governance. Historians praised his early reign but criticized his later reliance on favored officials, which led to decline.

