Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 5, 7, 10, 15, 20]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
张晧子纲王龚子畅种暠子岱子拂挮子劭陈球
张晧字叔明，犍为武阳人也。六世祖良，高帝时为太子少傅，封留侯。告少游学京师，永元中，归仕州郡，辟大将军邓骘府，五迁尚书仆射，职事八年，出为彭城相。
永宁元年，征拜廷尉。
晧虽非法家，而留心刑断，数与尚书辩正疑狱，多以详当见从。
时安帝废皇太子为济阴王，晧与太常桓焉、太仆来历廷争之，不能得。
事已具《来历传》。
退而上疏曰： 昔贼臣江充，造构谗逆，至令戾园兴兵，终及祸难。
后壶关三老一言，上乃觉悟，虽追前失，悔之何逮！
今皇太子春秋方始十岁，未见保傅九德之义，宜简贤辅，就成圣质。
书奏不省。
及顺帝即位，拜晧司空，在事多所荐达，天下称其推士。
translation: 
◆Zhang Hao's biography, Zhang Hao's courtesy name was Shuming, and he was a native of Wuyang, Qianwei County. Zhang Liang, the sixth generation ancestor, was the prince's young master during the reign of Emperor Gao and was granted the title of Liuhou.
When Zhang Hao was young, he traveled to the capital to study. In Yongyuanzhong, he returned to the prefecture and served as an official. He established the mansion of General Deng Zhi. He was promoted to Shangshu Pushe five times and served for eight years before becoming the prime minister of Pengcheng.
In the first year of Yongning, he was promoted to Tingwei.
Although Zhang Hao was not a Legalist, he paid attention to punishment and imprisonment, and often argued with ministers to correct doubts and doubts. Most of his opinions were adopted after careful consideration.
At this time, Emperor An deposed the crown prince as King of Jiyin, and Zhang Hao argued with Taichang Huanyan and Taipu about the origins of the throne in the court, but to no avail.
The matter has been recorded in the Biography of Origin.
Zhang Hao withdrew from the imperial court and wrote: "In the past, Jiang Chong, a traitor, made slanderous rumors and rebels, causing the military garden to raise troops, and finally disaster occurred."
Later, Linghu Mao, the third elder of Huguan, wrote a letter saying that the prince had been wronged, and Emperor Wu realized that although he could catch up on his previous mistakes, regretting it would be of no use!
Now that the crown prince is only ten years old, he still does not know the meaning of the nine virtues of the nanny master. He should choose virtuous people to assist him so that he can become the emperor.
The book was submitted but was not accepted.
Emperor Shun ascended the throne and appointed Zhang Hao as Sikong. He promoted many talents in office and the world called him a pusher.

summary:
summary line 0: Zhang Hao, courtesy name Shuming, was from Wuyang, Qianwei County. His sixth-generation ancestor Zhang Liang served as prince's young master under Emperor Gao and was granted the title of Liuhou. Zhang Hao studied in the capital as a youth, later served as an official, and was promoted five times to Shangshu Pushe before becoming prime minister of Pengcheng. In Yongning's first year, he became Tingwei. Though not a Legalist, he emphasized proper punishment and often debated with ministers to correct doubts. When Emperor An deposed the crown prince, Zhang Hao argued unsuccessfully with officials. He later submitted a memorial citing historical examples of wrongful accusations and urging the selection of virtuous advisors for the young prince, but his advice was rejected. Under Emperor Shun, Zhang Hao became Sikong and promoted many talents. When Zhao Teng and others were arrested for criticizing the government, Zhang Hao admonished the emperor, citing ancient practices of accepting remonstrance, and persuaded him to reduce their sentences. He was removed from office due to natural disasters, reinstated as Tingwei in Yangjia's first year, and died in office at age eighty-three.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
书御，京师震竦。
时，冀妹为皇后，内宠方盛，诸梁姻族满朝，帝虽知纲言直，终不忍用。
时，广陵贼张婴等众数万人，杀刺史、二千石，寇乱扬、徐间，积十余年，朝廷不能讨。
冀乃讽尚书，以纲为广陵太守，因欲以事中之。
前遣郡守，率多求兵马，纲独请单车之职。
既到，乃将吏卒十余人，径造婴垒，以慰安之，求得与长老相见，申示国恩。
婴初大惊，既见纲诚信，乃出拜谒。
纲延置上坐，问所疾苦。
乃譬之曰：前后二千石多肆贪暴，故致公等怀愤相聚。
二千石信有罪矣，然为之者又非义也。
今主上仁圣，欲以文德服叛，故遣太守，思以爵禄相荣，不愿以刑罚相加，今诚转祸为福之时也。
若闻义不服，天子赫然震怒，荆、扬、兗、豫大兵云合，岂不危乎？
若不料强弱，非明也；充善取恶，非智也；去顺效逆，非忠也；身绝血嗣，非孝也；背正从邪，非直也；见义不为，非勇也；六者成败之几，利害所从，公其深计之。
婴闻，泣下，曰： 荒裔愚人，不能自通朝廷，不堪侵枉，遂复相聚偷生，若鱼游釜中，喘息须臾间耳。
translation: 
The book came in and the capital was shocked.
At this time, Liang Ji's sister was the queen and was favored by the emperor. Zhu Liang's relatives were all over the court. Although the emperor knew that Zhang Gang was telling the truth, he finally couldn't bear to accept it.
At this time, Guangling thief Zhang Ying and tens of thousands of people killed the governor and two thousand stones, invaded and disturbed Yang and Xu Jian, and for more than ten years, the imperial court was unable to attack them.
Liang Ji then hinted to the minister to appoint Zhang Gang as the prefect of Guangling, hoping to attack and frame him.
In the past, the county guards sent there usually asked the court for more troops and horses, so Zhang Gang sent a bicycle alone to take office.
After arriving, he took only a dozen officials and soldiers to Zhang Ying's position, comforted them, and asked to meet their leader to explain the country's kindness to them.
Zhang Ying was surprised at first and saw Zhang Gang's sincerity, so he came out to pay Zhang Gang a visit.
Zhang Gang was invited to take a seat. Zhang Gang asked Zhang Ying what difficulties he had.
Xiao Yu Zhang Ying said: In the past, most of the two thousand stones were corrupt and cruel, so that the public officials gathered together with anger.
Erqianshi is truly guilty! However, it is also unjust for you to do so.
Now the emperor is kind and wise, and wants to use virtue to quell the rebellion, so he sent me. I think if you can take it as an honor to receive the country's title and salary, I will not be willing to impose punishment on you. Now is really your time to turn misfortune into blessing!
If you know what you should do, but still disobey the court, the emperor will be furious, and soldiers from Jing, Yang, Yan, and Yu will gather. Isn't it dangerous?
If you do not measure the strong and the weak, this is ignorance; if you abandon the good and adopt the evil, this is unwise; if you disobey and follow the example of rebellion, this is disloyal; if you die without heirs, this is unfilial; if you follow evil anyway, this is not straight; if you do not do what is right, this is not courageous. These six points are the key to success or failure. The interests and benefits are interdependent. You can think about it deeply.
After hearing this, Zhang Ying burst into tears and said: "Ignorant people in the remote areas cannot communicate with the court and cannot bear the oppression and bullying of the officials. As a last resort, everyone gathers together and ekes out an ignoble existence, just like a fish swimming in a cauldron, just taking a breather for a while."

summary:
summary line 1: Zhang Hao's son Zhang Gang, courtesy name Wen Ji, was proficient in Confucian classics and strictly maintained integrity. He became imperial censor under Emperor Shun. Distressed by the emperor's indulgence of eunuchs, Zhang Gang submitted a memorial contrasting the frugal governance of earlier Han emperors with current corruption, urging reform. The emperor did not accept it. In Han'an's first year, when eight envoys were selected to inspect customs, Zhang Gang alone buried his carriage wheel in Luoyang, declaring he would investigate the powerful rather than minor officials. He submitted a report condemning General Liang Ji and his relatives for corruption and tyranny. Though the emperor knew Zhang Gang was truthful, he did not act due to Liang Ji's influence. Liang Ji then appointed Zhang Gang as prefect of Guangling, hoping the bandit troubles there would destroy him. Zhang Gang went alone with few officials to meet the bandit leader Zhang Ying, persuading him to surrender through sincere discussion of loyalty and consequences. Over ten thousand people surrendered. Zhang Gang died at forty-six, with the people mourning deeply and Zhang Ying leading over five hundred in mourning attire to build his tomb.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
王龚字伯宗，山阳高平人也。
世为豪族。
初举孝廉，稍迁青州刺史，劾奏贪浊二千石数人，安旁嘉之，征拜尚书。
建光元年，擢为司隶校尉，明年迁汝南太守。
政崇温和，好才爱士，引进郡人黄宪、陈蕃等。
宪虽不屈，蕃遂就吏。
蕃性气高明，初到，龚不即召见之。
乃留记谢病去。
龚怒，使除其录。
功曹袁阆请见，言曰： 闻之传曰 人臣不见察于君，不敢立于朝 ，蕃既以贤见引，不宜退以非礼。
龚改容谢曰： 是吾过也。
乃复厚遇待之。
由是后进知名之士莫不归心焉。
阆字奉高。数辞公府之命，不修异操，而致名当时。
永建元年，征袭为太仆，转太常。
四年，迁司空，以地震策免。
永和元年，拜太尉。
translation: 
◆The biography of Wang Gong, whose courtesy name is Bo Zong, was from Gaoping County, Shanyang County.
It has been a wealthy family for generations.
He was initially elected as Xiaolian and moved to the governor of Qingzhou. He impeached several people for embezzlement of two thousand dan. Emperor An commended him and conscripted him into Shangshu.
In the first year of Jianguang, he was promoted to Sili Xiaowei, and in the second year he was promoted to Runan prefect.
In order to advocate moderate politics and love talents, he introduced county people Huang Xian, Chen Fan and others.
Although Huang Xian refused to give in, Chen Fan became an official.
Chen Fan was a man of good temperament. When he first arrived at the house, Wang Gong did not summon him immediately.
So I left a note and went back saying I was sick.
Wang Gong was angry and wanted to remove Chen Fan's name.
The meritorious Cao Yuan Lang asked to see Wang Gong and said: I heard that there is a saying in "Zhuan": If a minister is not understood by the king, he will not dare to stand in the court. Since Chen Fan was introduced as a wise person, he should not be dismissed as inappropriate.
Wang Gong changed his color and said: It's my fault!
So he treated him politely.
Therefore, the late and famous people all admired Wang Gong.
Yuan Lang, whose courtesy name was Fenggao, resigned from the government service several times and did not seek any special conduct, but he enjoyed great fame at the time.
In the first year of Yongjian's reign, Wang Gong was recruited as his servant and transferred to Taichang.
In the fourth year, he was promoted to Sikong, but was dismissed due to the earthquake.
In the first year of Yonghe, he was appointed Taiwei.

summary:
summary line 2: Wang Gong, courtesy name Bo Zong, was from Gaoping County, Shanyang. He served as Qingzhou governor, impeaching corrupt officials, and was promoted to Shangshu. He became Runan prefect, where he promoted moderate governance and introduced talented individuals like Huang Xian and Chen Fan. When Chen Fan left a note claiming illness after not being immediately received, Wang Gong initially wanted to dismiss him but was persuaded otherwise by meritorious official Yuan Lang. Wang Gong later became Taiwei, maintaining strict propriety and appointing respected elders. Concerned about eunuch power, he submitted a memorial requesting their banishment. Eunuchs retaliated by falsely accusing him, and Emperor Shun ordered him to confess. Li Gu wrote to General Liang Shang urging intervention, citing historical precedents, and the matter was resolved. Wang Gong served five years before retiring due to age and illness, dying at home.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
昔绛侯得罪，袁盎解其过，魏尚获戾，冯唐诉其冤，时君善之，列在书传。
今将军内倚至尊，外典国柄，言重信著，指捴无违，宜加表救，济王公之艰难。
语曰： 善人在患，饥不及餐。
然则立德者以幽陋好遗，显登者以贵涂易引。
故晨门有抱关之夫，柱下无朱文之轸也。
暢字叔茂。
少以清实为称，无所交党。
初举孝廉，辞病不就。
大将军梁商特辟举茂才，四迁尚书令，出为齐相。
征拜司隶校尉，转渔阳太守。
所在以严明为称。
坐事免官。
是时，政事多归尚书，桓帝特诏三公，令高选庸能。太尉陈蕃荐暢清方公正，有不可犯之色，由是复为尚书。
寻拜南阳太守。
前后二千石逼惧帝乡贵戚，多不称职。
暢深疾之，下车奋厉威猛，其豪党有衅秽者，莫不纠发。会赦，事得散。
暢追恨之，更为设法，诸受臧二千万以上不自首实者，尽入财物；若其隐伏，使吏发屋伐树，堙井夷灶，豪右大震。
功曹张敞奏记谏曰：五教在宽，著之经典。
translation: 
In the past, Jianghou Zhou Bo was offended, and Yuan An appealed for him and was acquitted; Wei Shang was found guilty, and Feng Tang appealed for him. Emperor Wen at that time thought that they had done a good job, and this matter was recorded in the biography.
Now the general relies on the emperor in the court and controls the power of the country outside. His prestige is clear, his words are respected, and no one dares to disobey his command. He should come to the rescue and save the prince from difficulties.
As the saying goes: A good man is in trouble and waits for food when he is hungry.
This is the time. Liang Shang immediately told the emperor and the matter was resolved.
Wang Gong reigned for five years. Due to old age and illness, he asked to go home and died at home.
The son's name is Wang Chang. ◆Wang Changzhuan, Wang Chang's courtesy name is Shumao.
When he was young, he was praised for his honesty and integrity. Rarely socializes with people.
In the beginning, he was filial and honest, and he didn't respond to illness.
General Liang Shang was appointed as Maocai, moved to Shangshuling, and then sent as Prime Minister of Qi.
He was conscripted into Sili Xiaowei and transferred to Yuyang Prefect.
Wherever he went, he was praised for his seriousness and shrewdness.
He was convicted and dismissed from office.
At this time, most of the affairs of the imperial court were assigned to the minister. Emperor Huan specifically issued an order to the three Dukes to elect people with merit and ability as minister. Taiwei Chen Fan recommended Wang Chang, saying that he was honest, fair, and inviolable, so he was appointed minister again.
Soon, he was appointed as the governor of Nanyang.
The two thousand stones before him were all afraid of the noble relatives of the Imperial Township, and most of them were incompetent.
Wang Chang hated them deeply, and as soon as he took office, he showed his power. Those who were guilty among them were investigated and exposed one by one. When the imperial court granted amnesty, the matter was resolved.
Wang Chang's old grudges were still lingering, and he established another regulation. If each person who received more than 20 million stolen goods refused to surrender and admit it, all his property would be confiscated. If there was any concealment, officials would be sent to demolish houses, cut down trees, fill in wells and flatten stoves. Some evil forces were greatly shocked.
Zhang Chang, a meritorious scholar, wrote a letter to remonstrate: "The Five Religions are broad and have been written in the classics."

summary:
summary line 3: Wang Gong's son Wang Chang, courtesy name Shumao, was known for honesty. He served in various positions including Yuyang prefect, where he was praised for seriousness and shrewdness. After being dismissed, he was recommended by Taiwei Chen Fan and became minister, then Nanyang governor. He harshly punished corrupt officials, demolishing houses and cutting down trees of those who concealed stolen goods. Meritorious official Zhang Chang advised leniency, citing historical examples of benevolent governance. Wang Chang accepted this advice and implemented lenient governance. He personally practiced frugality to correct extravagant habits. When advising young Liu Biao, Wang Chang emphasized moderation and cited historical examples of integrity. He later became Sikong but was dismissed due to floods, dying at home the following year.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
后征为长乐卫尉。
建宁元年，迁司空，数月，以水灾策免。
明年，卒于家。
子谦，为大将军何进长史。
谦子粲，以文才知名。
种暠字景伯，河南洛阳人，仲山甫之后也。
父为定陶令，有财三千万。
父卒，暠悉以赈恤宗族及邑里之贫者。
其有进趣名利，皆不与交通。
始为县门下史。
时河南尹田歆外甥王谌，名知人。
歆谓之曰： 今当举六孝廉，多得贵戚书命，不宜相违，欲自用一名士以报国家，尔助我求之。
明日，谌送客于大阳郭，遥见暠，异之。还白歆曰： 为尹得孝廉矣，近洛阳门下史也。
歆笑曰： 当得山泽隐滞，乃洛阳吏邪？
谌曰： 山泽不必有异士，异士不必在山泽。
歆即召暠于庭，辩诘职事。
translation: 
Later he was appointed as Changle Guardsman.
In the first year of Jianning, he was promoted to Sikong. Only a few months later, he was dismissed due to floods.
The next year, he died at home.
His son Wang Qian was the general and he Jin had a long history.
Wang Can, Wang Qian's son, is famous for his literary talent.
◆Zhong Hao's biography, Zhong Hao's courtesy name was Jing Bo, and he was a native of Luoyang County, Henan County. Descendants of Zhongshanfu.
His father was the magistrate of Dingtao County and had a fortune of thirty million.
After his father died, Zhong Hao used all the money to help the poor in his clan and county.
Those who strive for fame and wealth, Zhong Hao will not associate with them.
Started to work as a county clerk.
At that time, Wang Chen, the nephew of Yin Tianxin in Henan Province, had a good understanding of people.
Tian Xin said to Wang Chen: Now I have to recommend six filial and honest people. I have received many letters from relatives of high-ranking officials and nobles. I cannot go against their orders. I want to use one of my own to serve the country. Please help me find them.
The next day, Wang Chen sent guests to Dayangguo. He saw Zhong Hao from a distance and thought he was not a mortal. He went back and told Tian Xin, "I have found a Xiaolian for you, who is a member of the Luoyang family."
Tian Xin laughed and said: "The person who should be prayed for to live in seclusion in Shanze and not be an official turns out to be a Luoyang official!"
Wang Chen said: There may not necessarily be strangers in the mountains and rivers, and strangers may not necessarily be in the mountains and rivers.
Tian Xin immediately summoned Zhong Hao in the court and asked him about his duties.

summary:
summary line 4: Zhong Hao, courtesy name Jing Bo, was from Luoyang County. After his father died, he used his inheritance to help the poor. He was recommended as filial and incorrupt by Wang Chen, who recognized his potential. Zhong Hao served as censor under Emperor Shun, impeaching corrupt officials recommended by Liang Ji. When eunuch Gao Fan came to meet the crown prince, Zhong Hao prevented him from entering without proper authorization, earning imperial praise. As Yizhou governor, he extended Han influence to foreign tribes. He exposed a prefect who presented gold snakes to Liang Ji, earning Liang Ji's enmity. After being framed by Liang Ji, he was pardoned due to Li Gu's intervention. He later served as Liangzhou governor, winning great popularity, and as Hanyang prefect, where he taught Qiang and Hu people. As general against the Xiongnu, he secured border peace through sincere persuasion. He became Situ in Yanxi's fourth year, recommending capable ministers, and died at sixty-one, mourned by border residents and even the Xiongnu.

Chunk 15: 
original: 
朝廷竟不能从。
拂字颖伯。
初为司隶从事，拜宛令。
时，南阳郡吏好因休沐，游戏市里，为百姓所患。
拂出逢之，必下车公谒，以愧其心，自是莫敢出者。
政有能名，累迁光禄大夫。
初平元年，代荀爽为司空。
明年，以地震策免，复为太常。
李、郭之乱。长安城溃，百官多避兵冲，拂挥剑而出曰： 为国大臣，不能止戈除暴，致使凶贼兵刃向宫，去欲何之！
遂战而死。子劭。
劭字申甫。
少知名。
中平末，为谏议大夫。
大将军何进将诛宦官，召并州牧董卓，至渑池，而进意更狐疑，遣劭宣诏止之。
卓不受，遂前至河南。
劭迎劳之，因譬令还军。
卓疑有变，使其军士以兵胁劭。
劭怒，称诏大呼叱之，军士皆披，遂前质责卓。卓辞屈，乃还军夕阳亭。
及进败，献帝即位，拜劭为侍中。
卓既擅权，而恶劭强力，遂左转议郎，出为益、凉二州刺史。
会父拂战死，竟不之职。服终，征为少府、大鸿胪，皆辞不受。
曰： 昔我先父以身徇国，吾为臣子，不能除残复怨，何面目朝觐明主哉！
translation: 
The court actually did not do this.
◆Zhongfu Chuan, whose name is Yingbo.
He began to work for Sili and was appointed magistrate of Wan County.
At that time, Nanyang County officials liked to play in the market during menstruation, causing harm to the people.
When Zhong Fu went out and met them, he would definitely get out of the car to meet them and make them feel ashamed. From then on, I didn’t dare to come out.
He had a good reputation for being capable in politics and was promoted to Guanglu doctor.
In the first year of Chuping, he replaced Xun Shuang as Sikong.
The next year, he was dismissed from office due to the earthquake and returned to Taichang.
Li Chu and Guo Si rebelled, and the city of Chang'an was destroyed. Many officials fled to avoid the attack of the soldiers. Zhong Fu came out with his sword and said: As a minister of the country, you can't stop the chaos and eliminate violence. Let the thieves rush into the palace and run wherever they want!
So he fought to the death, and his son Zhong Shao.
◆Zhong Shao Zhuan, Zhong Shao is named Shenfu.
Famous at a young age.
In the last years of Zhongping, he served as an admonishing official.
大将军何进准备诛杀宦官，召并州牧董卓，董卓到渑池，何进狐疑，拿不定主意了。
Zhong Shao was sent to issue an edict to prevent Dong Zhuo from entering the capital. Dong Zhuo refused and advanced to Henan.
Zhong Shao went to greet them and comfort them, and persuaded Dong Zhuo to withdraw.
Dong Zhuo suspected that something was going on, so his sergeants threatened Zang Shao with a gun.
Zhong Shao became angry, claimed that there was an edict, and shouted loudly, causing the soldiers to disperse. Zhong Shao stepped forward to question and blame Dong Zhuo, but Dong Zhuo had nothing to say in response, so he had to retreat to Sunset Pavilion.
When He Jin failed, Emperor Xian ascended the throne and made Shao a doctor.
Dong Zhuo had monopolized power and was a powerful villain. He was demoted to Yilang and made governor of Yizhou and Liangzhou.
When his father died in battle and he was unable to take up his post, the period of mourning expired and he was recruited as a Shaofu or Dahonglu, but neither of them accepted it.
He said: My late father died for the country, and as a minister, I cannot drive away the cruelty and avenge the resentment in my heart. How can I show my face to the Lord!

summary:
summary line 5: Zhong Hao's son Zhong Dai, courtesy name Gongzu, loved learning but refused official appointments, dying of illness. His brother Zhong Fu, courtesy name Yingbo, served as Wan County magistrate, where he shamed corrupt officials into reform. He became Sikong but was dismissed due to earthquakes. When Li Chu and Guo Si rebelled, Zhong Fu fought to the death in the palace, dying alongside his son Zhong Shao. Zhong Shao, courtesy name Shenfu, served as an admonishing official. He confronted Dong Zhuo, forcing him to retreat. After Dong Zhuo seized power, Zhong Shao refused high office, declaring he could not face the emperor while his father's murderers remained unpunished. He joined Ma Teng and others to attack Li Chu and Guo Si but died in battle.

Chunk 20: 
original: 
咸字元贞，汝南人。
累经洲郡，以廉干知名，在朝清忠，权幸惮之。
六年，迁球司空，以地震免。
拜光禄大夫，复为廷尉、太常。
光和元年，迁太尉，数月，以日食免。复拜光禄大夫。
明年，为永乐少府，乃潜与司徒河间刘郃谋诛宦官。
初，郃兄侍中，与大将军窦武同谋俱死，故郃与球相结。
事未及发，球复以书劝郃曰： 公出自宗室，位登台鼎，天下瞻望，社稷镇卫，岂得雷同容容无违而已？
今曹节等放纵为害，而久在左右，又公兄侍中受害节等，永乐太后所亲知也。
今可表徙卫尉阳球为司隶校尉，以次收节等诛之。
政出圣主，天下太平，可翘足而待也。
又，尚书刘纳以正直忤宦官，出为步兵校尉，亦深劝于郃。
郃曰： 凶竖多耳目，恐事未会，先受其祸。
纳曰： 公为国栋梁，倾危不持，焉用彼相邪？
translation: 
Li Xian, courtesy name Yuan Zhen, was from Runan.
From state to county, it rises step by step. He is famous for his integrity and ability; he is loyal to the court, and generally the powerful and flattering people are afraid of him.
In the sixth year, Chen Qiu was promoted to Sikong, but was dismissed due to an earthquake.
He was awarded Doctor Guanglu and then Tingwei and Taichang.
In the first year of Guanghe, he was promoted to Taiwei. After a few months, he was dismissed due to a solar eclipse and was awarded the title of Guanglu doctor.
In the second year, he was appointed as the Shaofu of Yongle, so he secretly planned with Situ Hejian and Liu to kill the eunuchs.
At first, Liu's elder brother, the minister Liu Zhen, conspired with the general Dou Wu to kill the eunuchs, but they were both killed by the eunuchs, so Liu and Chen Qiu formed a conspiracy.
Before the matter got started, Chen Qiu wrote another letter to persuade Liu: "The Duke is a descendant of the clan, and he is the third Duke. He is respected by people all over the world. Can the vassal guard of the country just go along with it and tolerate it without any objection?"
Now Cao Jie and others are doing wanton harm and have always been by your side, and your brother Shizhong was harmed by Cao Jie and others. This is known to the Empress Dowager Yongle.
Now we can transfer Wei Yangqiu from Wei to Sili Xiaowei, and capture and kill Cao Jie and others in turn.
In this way, the emperor will take charge personally and the world will be at peace soon.
In addition, Shangshu Liu Na offended the eunuchs because of his integrity and was transferred to the rank of infantry captain. He also urged Liu.
Liu said: The vicious eunuchs have many eyes and ears, and they are afraid that things will be harmed before things are ready.
Liu Na said: You are the pillar of the country. The country is tilting and is about to collapse. If you don't support it, what's the point of using you?

summary:
summary line 6: Chen Qiu, courtesy name Bo Zhen, was from Huaipu County, Xiapi. He was learned in Confucianism and law. As Fanyang magistrate, he refused to send bribes to the Wei prefect, who could not dismiss him due to his good reputation. As Lingling prefect, he defeated bandits and suppressed a rebellion, using innovative defensive tactics. He later became Nanyang governor but was slandered by powerful families and returned home. As Tingwei, he argued successfully for Empress Dowager Dou to be buried with Emperor Huan, despite opposition from eunuchs Cao Jie and Wang Fu. He later became Sikong but was dismissed due to earthquakes. He secretly plotted with Liu to kill eunuchs, but his wife's relative Cheng Huang betrayed them to Cao Jie. The emperor imprisoned Chen Qiu, who died in prison at sixty-two.

