Chunk 0: 
original: 
刘敬者，齐人也。汉五年，戍陇西，过洛阳，高帝在焉。
娄敬脱輓辂，衣其羊裘，见齐人虞将军曰： 臣原见上言便事。
虞将军欲与之鲜衣，娄敬曰： 臣衣帛，衣帛见；衣褐，衣褐见：终不敢易衣。
於是虞将军入言上。
上召入见，赐食。
已而问娄敬，娄敬说曰： 陛下都洛阳，岂欲与周室比隆哉？
上曰： 然。 娄敬曰： 陛下取天下与周室异。周之先自后稷，尧封之邰，积德累善十有馀世。
公刘避桀居豳。
太王以狄伐故，去豳，杖马箠居岐，国人争随之。
及文王为西伯，断虞芮之讼，始受命，吕望、伯夷自海滨来归之。
武王伐纣，不期而会孟津之上八百诸侯，皆曰纣可伐矣，遂灭殷。
成王即位，周公之属傅相焉，乃营成周洛邑，以此为天下之中也，诸侯四方纳贡职，道里均矣，有德则易以王，无德则易以亡。
凡居此者，欲令周务以德致人，不欲依阻险，令後世骄奢以虐民也。
及周之盛时，天下和洽，四夷乡风，慕义怀德，附离而并事天子，不屯一卒，不战一士，八夷大国之民莫不宾服，效其贡职。
及周之衰也，分而为两，天下莫朝，周不能制也。
非其德薄也，而形势弱也。
今陛下起丰沛，收卒三千人，以之径往而卷蜀汉，定三秦，与项羽战荥阳，争成皋之口，大战七十，小战四十，使天下之民肝脑涂地，父子暴骨中野，不可胜数，哭泣之声未绝，伤痍者未起，而欲比隆於成康之时，臣窃以为不侔也。
且夫秦地被山带河，四塞以为固，卒然有急，百万之众可具也。
因秦之故，资甚美膏腴之地，此所谓天府者也。
陛下入关而都之，山东虽乱，秦之故地可全而有也。
translation: 
Liu Jing was a native of Qi. In the fifth year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, he went to Longxi to guard the frontier and passed by Luoyang, where Emperor Gao was living at that time.
After Liu Jing entered the city, he took off the crossbar used to pull the cart, put on a sheepskin coat, and paid a visit to General Yu from Qi State. He said: I hope to see the emperor to talk about major national affairs.
General Yu wanted to give him a fresh and good clothes to change into. Liu Jing said: I came wearing silk clothes, so I went to see him in silk clothes;
So General Yu went to the palace to report Liu Jing's request to the emperor.
The emperor summoned Liu Jing to the palace and gave him food.
After a while, the emperor asked Liu Jing what important matter he wanted to discuss, and Liu Jing said: Your Majesty established Luoyang as the capital, is it to compete with the Zhou Dynasty for prosperity? The emperor said: Yes.
Liu Jing said: Your Majesty's control of the world is different from that of the Zhou Dynasty. The ancestors of the Zhou Dynasty started from Houji, and Yao granted him the title of Tai. He accumulated virtues and good deeds for more than ten generations.
Gong Liu came to live in Bin to avoid Xia Jie's tyranny.
Because of the intrusion of the Di tribe, King Tai left Bindi and drove his animals to live in Qishan. The people in the country rushed to follow him.
When King Wen of Zhou became the leader of the Western princes, he properly resolved the dispute between Yu and Rui, and from then on he became a man destined to rule the world. The capable men Lu Wang and Boyi returned from the sea and joined him.
When King Wu of Zhou attacked Yin Zhou, the 800 princes who came to Mengjin to form an alliance without making an appointment. Everyone said that Yin Zhou was ready to attack Yin Zhou, so the Yin Shang Dynasty was destroyed.
King Cheng of Zhou came to the throne, and the Duke of Zhou and others assisted him. He built the city of Zhou in Luoyi and made it the center of the world. The princes from all over the world came to pay tribute and taxes, and the distances were equal. In this way, if a monarch is virtuous, it will be easy for him to become king and rule the world; if he is not virtuous, it will be easy for him to perish.
Anyone who established their capital here wanted to use virtuous governance to inspire the people like the Zhou Dynasty, and did not want to rely on the dangerous natural situation to allow future generations of monarchs to abuse the people with their extravagance.
During the heyday of the Zhou Dynasty, the world was harmonious, and all the tribes in the four directions were attracted to Luoyi, attached themselves to the Zhou Dynasty, admired the morality of Lord Zhou, and were grateful for his kindness. They attached themselves to and served the Emperor of Zhou together, and no soldiers were stationed in defense or sent to fight. All the people of the big countries in the eight directions surrendered and submitted, and they all contributed tributes and taxes.
When the Zhou Dynasty declined and was divided into two small kingdoms, the Western Zhou Dynasty and the Eastern Zhou Dynasty, no one in the world came to worship, and the Zhou Dynasty could no longer control the world.
It's not that its kindness is too little, but that its situation is too weak.
Now your Majesty has risen from Pei County, Fengyi, and gathered three thousand soldiers. He led them directly into battle and swept through the Shu and Han regions. He pacified the Three Qin Dynasties. He fought with Xiang Yu in Xingyang to compete for the danger of Chenggao. He fought seventy battles and forty small battles, causing the blood of the people of the world to flow on the earth. , the withered bones of father and son were exposed in the wilderness, countless corpses were scattered in the fields, miserable cries were heard endlessly, and people with injuries and disabilities were unable to move. However, this situation is compared with the prosperous period of King Cheng and King Kang of Zhou Dynasty. I privately think that this is not the same.
Besides, Qin is covered by high mountains and surrounded by the Yellow River. The border fortresses on all sides can serve as a solid line of defense. Even if there is a sudden crisis, millions of soldiers can be ready for a battle.
Relying on Qin's original management foundation and relying on fertile land, this is the so-called land of heaven with dangerous situation and abundant products.
Your Majesty entered Hangu Pass and built the capital there. Even if there is trouble in Shandong, the original land of Qin can be preserved and occupied.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
夫与人斗，不搤其亢，拊其背，未能全其胜也。
今陛下入关而都，案秦之故地，此亦搤天下之亢而拊其背也。
高帝问群臣，群臣皆山东人，争言周王数百年，秦二世即亡，不如都周。
上疑未能决。
及留侯明言入关便，即日车驾西都关中。
於是上曰： 本言都秦地者娄敬， 娄 者乃 刘 也。
赐姓刘氏，拜为郎中，号为奉春君。
汉七年，韩王信反，高帝自往击之。
至晋阳，闻信与匈奴欲共击汉，上大怒，使人使匈奴。
匈奴匿其壮士肥牛马，但见老弱及羸畜。
使者十辈来，皆言匈奴可击。
上使刘敬复往使匈奴，还报曰： 两国相击，此宜夸矜见所长。
今臣往，徒见羸瘠老弱，此必欲见短，伏奇兵以争利。
愚以为匈奴不可击也。
是时汉兵已逾句注，二十馀万兵已业行。
上怒，骂刘敬曰： 齐虏！
以口舌得官，今乃妄言沮吾军。
械系敬广武。
遂往，至平城，匈奴果出奇兵围高帝白登，七日然後得解。
高帝至广武，赦敬，曰： 吾不用公言，以困平城。
吾皆已斩前使十辈言可击者矣。
乃封敬二千户，为关内侯，号为建信侯。
高帝罢平城归，韩王信亡入胡。
当是时，冒顿为单于，兵彊，控弦三十万，数苦北边。
上患之，问刘敬。
刘敬曰： 天下初定，士卒罢於兵，未可以武服也。
translation: 
When fighting with others, you cannot completely win without grabbing him by the throat and hitting him on the back.
If your Majesty enters Hangu Pass and builds a capital, he will control the original areas of Qin. This is to grab the world by its throat and hit it on the back.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty sought the opinions of his ministers, who were all from the Shandong area. They argued one after another that the Zhou Dynasty established its capital in Luoyang and ruled the world for hundreds of years, while the Qin Dynasty established its capital in Guan Nei and perished after only two generations. It was better to establish its capital in the capital of the Zhou Dynasty.
The emperor hesitated.
After Zhang Liang, the remaining marquis, clearly explained the favorable conditions for entering Guanzhong and establishing the capital, the emperor took a car westward to establish the capital in Guanzhong that day.
At that time, the emperor said: Originally it was Liu Jing who advocated establishing the capital in Qin, and Lou is Liu.
So he changed Liu Jing's surname to Liu, granted him the official position of doctor, and gave him the title Fengchun Jun.
In the seventh year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, King Xin of Han rebelled, and Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty personally went to defeat him.
When he arrived in Jinyang, he learned that Han Wangxin was colluding with the Xiongnu to attack the Han Dynasty. The emperor was furious and sent envoys to the Xiongnu.
The Xiongnu hid their strong and capable soldiers and their fat cattle and horses, leaving only old and weak soldiers and thin livestock exposed.
More than ten batches of envoys were sent back, and they all said that the Huns could attack.
The emperor sent Liu Jing to go on an envoy to the Xiongnu again. He came back and reported: The two countries are at war, and it is time to show off their strengths.
Now when I go there, I see only emaciated livestock and old and weak soldiers. This must be a deliberate attempt to show shortcomings and ambush surprise troops to win.
I think the Huns cannot attack.
By this time, the Han army had crossed Gouzhu Mountain, and an army of 200,000 soldiers had set out to fight.
The emperor was very angry after hearing Liu Jing's words and scolded Liu Jing: "Qi is a coward!"
I got the official position by relying on my words, but now I dare to stop me from sending troops by talking nonsense.
Liu Jing was imprisoned in shackles and imprisoned in Guangwu County.
Emperor Gao led his army to Pingcheng, and when they arrived at Pingcheng, the Huns unexpectedly sent out troops to siege Emperor Gao on Baishan Mountain. They were besieged for seven days before they were able to relieve the siege.
When Emperor Gao returned to Guangwu County, he pardoned Liu Jing and said to Liu Jing: I didn't listen to your opinion, so I was besieged in Pingcheng.
I have beheaded all the ten people who were approved by the Huns to attack.
So Liu Jing was rewarded with a settlement of 2,000 households, and was granted the title of Marquis of Guannei, also known as Marquis of Jianxin.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty withdrew from Pingcheng and returned to the court, while King Xin of Han fled to Hu Di.
At this time, Maodun was the Xiongnu Chanyu. He had a powerful army with 300,000 warriors and repeatedly invaded the northern border.
The emperor was very worried about this situation and asked Liu Jing what to do.
Liu Jing said: The Han Dynasty had just settled down, and the soldiers were tired of fighting. They could not use force to subdue the Xiongnu.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
冒顿杀父代立，妻群母，以力为威，未可以仁义说也。
独可以计久远子孙为臣耳，然恐陛下不能为。
上曰： 诚可，何为不能！
顾为柰何？
刘敬对曰： 陛下诚能以適长公主妻之，厚奉遗之，彼知汉適女送厚，蛮夷必慕以为阏氏，生子必为太子。
代单于。
何者？贪汉重币。
陛下以岁时汉所馀彼所鲜数问遗，因使辩士风谕以礼节。
冒顿在，固为子婿；死，则外孙为单于。
岂尝闻外孙敢与大父抗礼者哉？
兵可无战以渐臣也。
若陛下不能遣长公主，而令宗室及後宫诈称公主，彼亦知，不肯贵近，无益也。
高帝曰： 善。
欲遣长公主。
吕后日夜泣，曰： 妾唯太子、一女，柰何弃之匈奴！
上竟不能遣长公主，而取家人子名为长公主，妻单于。
使刘敬往结和亲约。
刘敬从匈奴来，因言 匈奴河南白羊、楼烦王，去长安近者七百里，轻骑一日一夜可以至秦中。
秦中新破，少民，地肥饶，可益实。
夫诸侯初起时，非齐诸田，楚昭、屈、景莫能兴。
今陛下虽都关中，实少人。
北近胡寇，东有六国之族，宗彊，一日有变，陛下亦未得高枕而卧也。
臣原陛下徙齐诸田，楚昭、屈、景，燕、赵、韩、魏後，及豪桀名家居关中。
无事，可以备胡；诸侯有变，亦足率以东伐。
此彊本弱末之术也 。
translation: 
Maodun killed his father and proclaimed himself a Chanyu, and took many of his father's concubines as his wives. He relied on force to establish his power, but he could not be persuaded by benevolence, righteousness, and morality.
We can only make long-term plans to make his descendants surrender to the Han Dynasty, but I'm afraid your Majesty can't do it.
The emperor said: If it is really feasible, why can't it be done?
What to do?
Liu Jing replied: If your majesty can marry the eldest princess born to the empress to Moton as his wife, and give him rich gifts. He knows that it is the daughter of the empress of the Han Dynasty who has sent rich gifts. The rough foreigners will definitely envy the use of Han women as Yan family members, and the son they will give birth to will definitely be the prince and will succeed the throne in the future.
Why do this?
Because the Xiongnu coveted the Han Dynasty's generous wealth and gifts.
His Majesty repeatedly inquired about and presented gifts to the Han Dynasty that were superfluous throughout the year but rare to the Xiongnu. He also sent eloquent people to enlighten him with etiquette.
When Maodun reigns, of course he is the son-in-law of the Han Dynasty; after his death, his grandson of the Han Dynasty is the monarch.
Who has ever heard of a grandson who dared to stand up to his grandfather?
The army could gradually make the Xiongnu surrender without going to war.
If His Majesty cannot send the eldest princess, but lets a royal woman or a concubine pretend to be a princess, he will know about it and will not respect her and get close to her. There will be no good in that.
After hearing this, Emperor Gao said: OK.
He wanted to send the eldest princess to the Huns.
When Empress Lu learned about it, she cried day and night and said to the emperor: I only have a prince and a daughter, how can I bear to abandon her to marry the Huns!
After all, the emperor could not send the eldest princess, so he found a palace maid to marry Lord Moton as his wife in the name of the eldest princess.
At the same time, Liu Jing was sent to conclude a peace and marriage alliance with the Xiongnu.
When Liu Jing came back from the Huns, he said that the two tribes of the Huns in Henan, Aiyang and Loufan, were only 700 miles away from Chang'an, and light cavalry could reach the Guanzhong area in one day and one night.
The Guanzhong area had just gone through the war and was still very depleted, with a sparse population, but the land was fertile and could be gradually enriched by immigrants.
When the princes from all over the country raised armies to attack, they would not have prospered if it had not been for the participation of the Tian clan of Qi State and the Zhao, Qu and Jing clans of Chu State.
Now, although His Majesty built the capital in Guanzhong, there is actually a lack of population.
The north is close to the Huns and the enemy, and the east is the old nobles of the six countries. The clan power is very strong. If anything happens, your majesty cannot rest easy.
I hope that your majesty will move the Tian clan of Qi State, the three major clans of Zhao, Qu and Jing of Chu State, the descendants of Yan, Zhao, Han, Wei and other countries, as well as the wealthy and famous people, to live in Guanzhong.
If there is peace in the country, you can guard against the Xiongnu; if there is trouble in the vassal states, you can also lead them eastward to attack.
This is a strategy to strengthen central power and weaken local power. The emperor said: Very good.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
上曰： 善。 乃使刘敬徙所言关中十馀万口。
叔孙通者，薛人也。
秦时以文学徵，待诏博士。
数岁，陈胜起山东，使者以闻，二世召博士诸儒生问曰： 楚戍卒攻蕲入陈，於公如何？
博士诸生三十馀人前曰： 人臣无将，将即反，罪死无赦。原陛下急发兵击之。
二世怒，作色。
叔孙通前曰： 诸生言皆非也。
夫天下合为一家，毁郡县城，铄其兵，示天下不复用。
且明主在其上，法令具於下，使人人奉职，四方辐輳，安敢有反者！
此特群盗鼠窃狗盗耳，何足置之齿牙间。郡守尉今捕论，何足忧。
二世喜曰： 善。
尽问诸生，诸生或言反，或言盗。
於是二世令御史案诸生言反者下吏，非所宜言。
诸言盗者皆罢之。
乃赐叔孙通帛二十匹，衣一袭，拜为博士。
叔孙通已出宫，反舍，诸生曰： 先生何言之谀也？
通曰： 公不知也，我几不脱於虎口！
乃亡去，之薛，薛已降楚矣。
及项梁之薛，叔孙通从之。
败於定陶，从怀王。
怀王为义帝，徙长沙，叔孙通留事项王。
汉二年，汉王从五诸侯入彭城，叔孙通降汉王。
汉王败而西，因竟从汉。
叔孙通儒服，汉王憎之；乃变其服，服短衣，楚制，汉王喜。
叔孙通之降汉，从儒生弟子百馀人，然通无所言进，专言诸故群盗壮士进之。
弟子皆窃骂曰： 事先生数岁，幸得从降汉，今不能进臣等，专言大猾，何也？
叔孙通闻之，乃谓曰： 汉王方蒙矢石争天下，诸生宁能斗乎？
translation: 
So Liu Jing was sent to move more than 100,000 people to Guanzhong according to his own suggestions.
Shu Suntong was from Xuexian County.
During the Qin Dynasty, he was recruited into the palace for being good at articles and knowledgeable, waiting to be appointed as a doctor.
A few years later, Chen Sheng raised troops in Shandong, and envoys reported the situation to the court. Qin II summoned doctors and Confucian scholars and asked: The soldiers guarding the border in Chu captured Qi County and entered Chen County. What do you think of this matter?
More than thirty doctors and Confucian scholars came forward and said, "The ministers cannot gather in crowds. Gathering in crowds is rebellion. This is a capital crime that cannot be pardoned. I hope your Majesty will send troops to attack them as soon as possible."
Qin II became angry when he heard this, and his expression suddenly changed.
At this time Shusun Tong walked forward and said: What all the Confucian scholars said is wrong.
Now that the world has become one, we have destroyed counties, cities, and cities, and sold all kinds of weapons to make it clear to the world that they will no longer use them.
What's more, when a wise monarch reigns over the world and formulates complete laws and regulations for those below, so that everyone obeys the law and obeys their duties, and everyone from all directions submits to the court, how can anyone dare to rebel?
This is just a group of thieves stealing, nothing to worry about. The county officials are hunting them down and punishing them, which is not worth worrying about.
Qin Er said happily: "Okay."
I asked every Confucian scholar again. Some Confucian scholars said they were rebels, and some said they were thieves.
So Qin II ordered the censors to examine what every Confucian scholar said, and anyone who said they were rebels would be handed over to officials for punishment. Qin II believed that they should not say such things.
Those who were said to be thieves were removed from their posts.
But he gave Shusun Tong twenty pieces of silk, a set of clothes, and the title of doctorate.
Shusun Tong walked out of the palace and returned to his residence. Some Confucian scholars asked: What flattering words did the master say?
Shusun Tong said: You don’t know, I can hardly escape from the tiger’s mouth!
So he fled the capital and arrived at Xue County. At that time, Xue County had surrendered to the Chu army.
When Xiang Liang arrived in Xue County, Shusun Tong took refuge with him.
Later, Xiang Liang died in battle in Dingtao, and Shusun Tong followed Xiong Xin, King Huai of Chu.
King Huai was conferred the title of Righteous Emperor by Xiang Yu and moved to Changsha. Shusun Tong stayed behind to serve Xiang Yu.
In the second year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, Liu Bang, the king of Han, led five princes and kings to attack Pengcheng, and Shusun Tong surrendered to the king of Han.
The King of Han was defeated and went west, and Shusun Tong followed him and finally joined the King of Han.
Shusun Tong always wore the clothes of a Confucian scholar, which the King of Han disliked very much. So he changed his clothes and put on a short coat, which was made according to the custom of Chu. The King of Han was very happy to see him.
When Shusun Tong surrendered to the King of Han, he had more than a hundred Confucian disciples, but Shusun Tong never recommended them, but only praised and recommended those warriors who had gathered together to steal.
The Confucian disciples all secretly scolded him: "I served Mr. Feng for several years, and I was lucky enough to defect to the King of Han with him. Now I can't recommend us, but I praise a particularly cunning person. What's the point?"
When Shusun Tong heard the words scolding him, he said to the Confucian scholars: The king of Han is fighting for the world with sharp arrows and strong rocks. Can you Confucian scholars fight?


Chunk 4: 
original: 
故先言斩将搴旗之士。
诸生且待我，我不忘矣。
汉王拜叔孙通为博士，号稷嗣君。
汉五年，已并天下，诸侯共尊汉王为皇帝於定陶，叔孙通就其仪号。
高帝悉去秦苛仪法，为简易。
群臣饮酒争功，醉或妄呼，拔剑击柱，高帝患之。
叔孙通知上益厌之也，说上曰： 夫儒者难与进取，可与守成。
臣原徵鲁诸生，与臣弟子共起朝仪。
高帝曰： 得无难乎？
叔孙通曰： 五帝异乐，三王不同礼。
礼者，因时世人情为之节文者也。
故夏、殷、周之礼所因损益可知者，谓不相复也。
臣原颇采古礼与秦仪杂就之。
上曰： 可试为之，令易知，度吾所能行为之。
於是叔孙通使徵鲁诸生三十馀人。
鲁有两生不肯行，曰： 公所事者且十主，皆面谀以得亲贵。
今天下初定，死者未葬，伤者未起，又欲起礼乐。
礼乐所由起，积德百年而後可兴也。
吾不忍为公所为。
公所为不合古，吾不行。
公往矣，无汙我！
叔孙通笑曰： 若真鄙儒也，不知时变。
遂与所徵三十人西，及上左右为学者与其弟子百馀人为绵蕞野外。习之月馀，叔孙通曰： 上可试观。
上既观，使行礼，曰： 吾能为此。
乃令群臣习肄，会十月。
汉七年，长乐宫成，诸侯群臣皆朝十月。
translation: 
So I first want to praise the warriors who risk their lives to kill generals and seize flags.
Please wait for me, I won't forget you.
The king of Han appointed Shusun Tong as a doctor and called him the Sijun of Ji.
In the fifth year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, the world had been unified. The princes in Dingtao jointly honored the King of Han as the emperor, and Shusun Tong was responsible for formulating the rituals and etiquette.
At that time, Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty abolished all the strict etiquette regulations of the Qin Dynasty and only formulated some simple and easy-to-implement rules.
However, the ministers were drinking and having fun in the court and arguing about merits. Some of them were shouting and screaming when they were drunk, and even drew their swords to chip away at the pillars of the court. Emperor Gao was troubled by this matter.
Shusun Tong knew that the emperor was becoming more and more disgusted with such things, so he advised: It is difficult for those Confucian scholars to attack and capture for you, but they can help you preserve the results.
I hope to recruit some Confucian scholars from Lu to work with my disciples to formulate court etiquette.
Emperor Gao said: I'm afraid it will be as cumbersome and difficult as in the past, right?
Shusun Tong said: The five emperors have different rituals, and the three kings have different rituals.
Ritual is to formulate rules of moderation or modification for people according to the world's affairs and customs at that time.
Therefore, we can understand this from the inheritance, deletion and addition of etiquette in the Xia, Yin and Zhou dynasties, which means that the etiquette in different dynasties is not repeated.
I am willing to use some ancient etiquette and combine it with the etiquette of the Qin Dynasty to formulate new etiquette.
The emperor said: You can try to do it, but make it easy to understand and consider what I can do.
So Shusun Tong was ordered to recruit more than thirty Confucian scholars from Lu.
There are two Confucian scholars in Lu who don't want to leave, saying: "You have served nearly ten monarchs, and they all gained closeness and authority through face-to-face flattery."
Now that the world has just been peaceful, the dead have not yet been buried, and the disabled have not yet recovered, yet regulations on rituals and music must be formulated.
Judging from the root cause of the establishment of rituals and music, it can only be popularized after a hundred years of accumulated merit.
We cannot do this for you against your will.
What you are doing is not according to ancient laws, so we will not do it.
Go ahead and don't insult us!
Shusun Tong smiled and said: You are really despicable Confucian scholars, you don't understand the changes of the times at all.
He then went west to the capital with the thirty men he had recruited. Together with the emperor's learned attendants and more than a hundred disciples of Shusun Tong, they pulled up ropes in the suburbs to show salutes and erected thatches to represent the dignity of the people. After practicing for more than a month, Shusuntong said: The emperor can come to inspect.
After the emperor inspected them, he asked them to salute him and then said: I can do this.
So he ordered all the ministers to come to study. It happened to be October, and the actual rehearsal for the New Year's Meeting could be carried out.
In the seventh year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, the Changle Palace had been built. All the princes, kings and court officials came to pay homage to the emperor and participate in the New Year Ceremony.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
仪：先平明，谒者治礼，引以次入殿门，廷中陈车骑步卒卫宫，设兵张旗志。
传言 趋 。
殿下郎中侠陛，陛数百人。
功臣列侯诸将军军吏以次陈西方，东乡；文官丞相以下陈东方，西乡。
大行设九宾，胪传。
於是皇帝辇出房，百官执职传警，引诸侯王以下至吏六百石以次奉贺。
自诸侯王以下莫不振恐肃敬。
至礼毕，复置法酒。
诸侍坐殿上皆伏抑首，以尊卑次起上寿。
觞九行，谒者言 罢酒 。
御史执法举不如仪者辄引去。
竟朝置酒，无敢讙譁失礼者。
於是高帝曰： 吾乃今日知为皇帝之贵也。
乃拜叔孙通为太常，赐金五百斤。
叔孙通因进曰： 诸弟子儒生随臣久矣，与臣共为仪，原陛下官之。
高帝悉以为郎。
叔孙通出，皆以五百斤金赐诸生。
诸生乃皆喜曰： 叔孙生诚圣人也，知当世之要务。
汉九年，高帝徙叔孙通为太子太傅。
汉十二年，高祖欲以赵王如意易太子，叔孙通谏上曰： 昔者晋献公以骊姬之故废太子，立奚齐，晋国乱者数十年，为天下笑。
秦以不蚤定扶苏，令赵高得以诈立胡亥，自使灭祀，此陛下所亲见。
今太子仁孝，天下皆闻之；吕后与陛下攻苦食啖，其可背哉！
陛下必欲废適而立少，臣原先伏诛，以颈血汙地。
高帝曰： 公罢矣，吾直戏耳。
translation: 
The ceremony is: first at dawn, the visitor begins to preside over the ceremony and guides the princes, ministers, civil and military officials to enter the palace gate in sequence. Chariots, cavalry, infantry and palace guards are lined up in the court, various weapons are displayed, and various flags are erected.
The visitor called, "Go quickly with small steps."
So all the officials took their seats. Below the main hall, the doctors and officials stood on both sides of the steps. There were hundreds of people on the steps.
All the heroes, princes, generals and officers at all levels are arranged in order on the west side, facing east; all civil officials starting from the prime minister are arranged in order on the east side, facing west.
The nine protocol officers arranged by the Daxing Order called from top to bottom.
So the emperor came out of the palace in a dragon chariot. Hundreds of officials raised flags to call for warning, and then guided officials at all levels from the princes to more than six hundred stones to respectfully salute and congratulate the emperor.
All the officials below the princes and kings were not frightened and awed by this majestic ceremony.
Wait until the ceremony is over, and then arrange a banquet.
All the princes and officials sitting in the main hall held their breath and lowered their heads. They stood up in order of honor to congratulate and toast the emperor.
After nine rounds of pouring wine, the visitor announced that the banquet was over.
Finally, the supervisory officials enforced the etiquette regulations, identified those who did not comply with the etiquette regulations, and took them away.
From the court to the banquet, no one dared to speak loudly or act inappropriately.
After the ceremony, Emperor Gao said very proudly: Only today do I know the dignity of being an emperor.
So he gave Shusun Tong the official position of Taichang and rewarded him with five hundred catties of gold.
Shusun Tong took the opportunity to speak and said: My disciples, Confucian scholars, have been following me for a long time. They have worked with me to formulate court etiquette. I hope that your majesty will grant them official positions.
Emperor Gao made them all officials.
After Shusun Tong left the palace, he distributed five hundred kilograms of gold to various Confucian scholars.
These Confucian scholars all said happily: Mr. Shusun is really a great sage who knows the important affairs of the day.
In the ninth year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Gao appointed his uncle Sun Tong as the crown prince and tutor.
In the twelfth year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Gao planned to let Zhao Wang Liu Ruyi replace the prince. Shusun Tong advised the emperor: In the past, Duke Xiang of Jin deposed the prince Shensheng because he favored Li Ji, and replaced him with Xi Qi. This caused the Jin Dynasty to be in chaos for decades, and was ridiculed by the people of the world.
Because Qin Shihuang did not confirm Fusu as the crown prince early, he allowed Zhao Gao to use deception to establish Hu Hai, and ended up destroying himself. This is a fact that your Majesty has witnessed with your own eyes.
Now everyone in the world knows that the prince is benevolent, righteous, loyal and filial; Empress Lu and Your Majesty have gone through hardships and lived together, and they are a couple who share weal and woe. How can they turn their backs on her?
Your Majesty must abolish the eldest son and support the younger son. I would rather die first and let my blood stain the earth red.
Emperor Gao said: Forget it, sir, I was just talking casually.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
叔孙通曰： 太子天下本，本一摇天下振动，柰何以天下为戏！
高帝曰： 吾听公言。
及上置酒，见留侯所招客从太子入见，上乃遂无易太子志矣。
高帝崩，孝惠即位，乃谓叔孙生曰： 先帝园陵寝庙，群臣莫习。
徙为太常，定宗庙仪法。
及稍定汉诸仪法，皆叔孙生为太常所论箸也。
孝惠帝为东朝长乐宫，及间往，数跸烦人，乃作衤复道，方筑武库南。
叔孙生奏事，因请间曰： 陛下何自筑衤复道高寝，衣冠月出游高庙？
高庙，汉太祖，柰何令後世子孙乘宗庙道上行哉？
孝惠帝大惧，曰： 急坏之。
叔孙生曰： 人主无过举。
今已作，百姓皆知之，今坏此，则示有过举。
原陛下原庙渭北，衣冠月出游之，益广多宗庙，大孝之本也。
上乃诏有司立原庙。
原庙起，以衤复道故。
孝惠帝曾春出游离宫，叔孙生曰： 古者有春尝果，方今樱桃孰，可献，原陛下出，因取樱桃献宗庙。
上乃许之。
诸果献由此兴。
太史公曰：语曰 千金之裘，非一狐之腋也；台榭之榱，非一木之枝也；三代之际，非一士之智也 。
信哉！
夫高祖起微细，定海内，谋计用兵，可谓尽之矣。
然而刘敬脱輓辂一说，建万世之安，智岂可专邪！
叔孙通希世度务，制礼进退，与时变化，卒为汉家儒宗。 大直若诎，道固委蛇 ，盖谓是乎？
translation: 
Shusun Tong said: The prince is the foundation of the world. When the foundation is shaken, the world will shake. How can you use the foundation of the world as a joke?
Emperor Gao said: I listen to your opinion.
When the emperor set up a banquet to entertain the guests, he saw that the four senior scholars invited by Zhang Liang followed the prince into the palace to pay respects. The emperor had no idea of ​​replacing the prince anymore.
When Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty passed away and Emperor Xiaohui came to the throne, he said to Mr. Shusun: None of the officials are familiar with the etiquette of the late emperor's cemetery and ancestral temple.
So he was appointed as Taichang and formulated the ceremonial regulations of the ancestral temple.
After that, many ceremonial systems of the Han Dynasty were successively formulated, all of which were recorded and recorded by Shusun Tong when he was appointed Taichang.
Emperor Xiaohui of the Han Dynasty wanted to go to the Changle Palace in the east to pay homage to the Empress Dowager Lu, and he often had small visits. Every time he went out, he had to clear the way. It was very annoying to block the passage, so he built a pavilion road just south of the arsenal of Weiyang Palace.
Shusun Tong reported to Emperor Xiaohui about his work, and took the opportunity to ask for a confidential talk with the emperor: How could your Majesty build a flyover without authorization over the passage from Gaobin to Gaomiao every month?
Gaodi Temple is the ancestral temple of the founder of the Han Dynasty. How can future generations be allowed to walk above the passage of the ancestral temple?
Emperor Xiaohui was horrified when he heard this and said: Destroy it quickly.
Mr. Shusun said: A monarch must not make wrong moves.
Now that it has been built, the people are all aware of it. If you want to destroy this overpass again, it will show that you have made a mistake.
I hope that your majesty will build another original ancestral temple to the north of the Wei River, send Emperor Gao's clothes there when he travels every month, and further expand and increase the ancestral temple. This is a fundamental measure of great filial piety.
The emperor then issued an edict to the relevant officials to build another ancestral temple.
This separate ancestral temple was built because of the pavilion road.
Emperor Xiaohui once traveled to the palace in the spring. Mr. Shusun said: In ancient times, there was a spring ritual of presenting cherries to the ancestral temple. Now is the season when cherries are ripe, so you can donate them. I hope that your majesty will pick some cherries to present to the ancestral temple when you travel.
The emperor agreed to do this.
Later, the ritual of offering various fruits flourished from this.
Tai Shigong said: Youdao is a fur coat worth a thousand gold, not the armpit skin of a fox; the rafters of a pavilion are not the branches of a tree; the achievements of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties at that time are not the wisdom of a wise man.
Indeed!
Emperor Gaozu rose up from the humble common people, pacified the world, planned great plans, and fought with troops. It can be said that he did his best.
However, Liu Jing took off the crossbar of the cart and went to see the emperor for advice, which established a stable and great cause that will be passed down from generation to generation. How can talent and wisdom be exclusive to a few people?
Shusun Tong was good at watching the wind and steering the ship, weighing affairs, formulating etiquette and regulations, or adopting or discarding them. He was able to change with the times, and eventually became the master of Confucianism in the Han Dynasty. The most upright thing seems to be crooked, and the truth is always tortuous and forward. This is probably what we are talking about, right?


