Chunk 0: 
original: 
景皇帝讳师，字子元，宣帝长子也。
雅有风彩，沈毅多大略。
少流美誉，与夏侯玄、何晏齐名。
晏常称曰： 惟几也能成天下之务，司马子元是也。
魏景初中，拜散骑常侍，累迁中护军。
为选用之法，举不越功，吏无私焉。
宣穆皇后崩，居丧以至孝闻。
宣帝之将诛曹爽，深谋秘策，独与帝潜画，文帝弗之知也。
将发夕乃告之，既而使人觇之，帝寝如常，而文帝不能安席。
晨会兵司马门，镇静内外，置阵甚整。
宣帝曰： 此子竟可也。
初，帝阴养死士三千，散在人间，至是一朝而集，众莫知所出也。
事平，以功封长平乡侯，食邑千户，寻加卫将军。
及宣帝薨，议者咸云 伊尹既卒，伊陟嗣事 ，天子命帝以抚军大将军辅政。
魏嘉平四年春正月，迁大将军，加侍中，持节、都督中外诸军、录尚书事。
命百官举贤才，明少长，恤穷独，理废滞。
translation: 
Emperor Jing's famous teacher, named Ziyuan, was the eldest son of Emperor Xuan.
Elegant and charming, calm and perseverant, with far-reaching strategies.
When he was young, he had a good reputation and was as famous as Xia Houxuan and He Yan.
He Yan often said: Sima Ziyuan is the one who can achieve great things in the world.
During the early years of Wei Jingchu, he served as a regular servant of Sanqi and was promoted to the rank of Central Protector for many times.
Formulate methods for selecting talents, promote people without exceeding their merits, and officials have no selfish feelings.
When Queen Xuanmu passed away, Emperor Jing was famous for his extreme filial piety in mourning.
When Emperor Xuan was about to kill Cao Shuang, he planned carefully and secretly with Emperor Jing alone. Emperor Wen didn't know what was going on and only told him the night before he was about to take action.
Afterwards, someone was sent to spy on him. Emperor Jing fell asleep as usual, but Emperor Wen could not sleep peacefully.
In the early morning, the troops gathered at Simamen. Emperor Jing was calm both inside and outside, and the arrangements were very strict.
Emperor Xuan said: This son is really good after all.
At the beginning, Emperor Jing secretly took in three thousand scholars who were not afraid of death and scattered them among the people. When they arrived, they gathered them together in one morning. No one knew where these people came from.
After the incident subsided, because of his meritorious service, he was granted the title of Marquis of Changping Township, with a population of 1,000 households, and was later granted the title of General of Wei.
When Emperor Xuan died, people who discussed politics said: Yi Yin is dead, and Yi Zhi will inherit the business. The emperor appointed Emperor Jing as the general of the Fu army to assist in government affairs.
In the spring and first month of the fourth year of Wei Jiaping's reign, he was promoted to general and granted the title of Shizhong. He held the title of Commander-in-Chief, commanded all the Chinese and foreign armies, and recorded affairs of the Shangshu.
Order the officials to recommend talents, clarify the hierarchy between the young and the elderly, sympathize with the poor and lonely, and clean up those who have been abandoned.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
诸葛诞、毌丘俭、王昶、陈泰、胡遵都督四方，王基、州泰、邓艾、石苞典州郡，卢毓、李丰裳选举，傅嘏、虞松参计谋，钟会、夏侯玄、王肃、陈本、孟康、赵酆、张缉预朝议，四海倾注，朝野肃然。
或有请改易制度者，帝曰：  不识不知，顺帝之则 ，诗人之美也。
三祖典制，所宜遵奉；自非军事，不得妄有改革。
五年夏五月，吴太傅诸葛恪围新城，朝议虑其分兵以寇淮泗，欲戍诸水口。
帝曰： 诸葛恪新得政于吴，欲徼一时之利，并兵合肥，以冀万一，不暇复为青徐患也。
且水口非一，多戍则用兵众，少戍则不足以御寇。
恪果并力合肥，卒如所度。
帝于是使镇东将军毌丘俭、扬州刺史文钦等距之。
俭、钦请战，帝曰： 恪卷甲深入，投兵死地，其锋未易当。
且新城小而固，攻之未可拔。
遂命诸将高垒以弊之。
相持数月，恪攻城力屈，死伤太半。
帝乃敕钦督锐卒趋合榆，要其归路，俭帅诸将以为后继。
恪惧而遁，钦逆击，大破之，斩首万余级。
正元元年春正月，天子与中书令李丰、后父光禄大夫张缉、黄门监苏铄、永宁署令乐敦、冗从仆射刘宝贤等谋以太常夏侯玄代帝辅政。
帝密知之，使舍人王羡以车迎丰。
丰见迫，随羡而至，帝数之。
丰知祸及，因肆恶言。
帝怒，遣勇士以刀镮筑杀之。
translation: 
Zhuge Dan, Mu Qiujian, Wang Chang, Chen Tai, and Hu Zun were appointed governors of the four directions; Wang Ji, Zhou Tai, Deng Ai, and Shi Bao were in charge of the prefectures and counties; Lu Yu and Li Feng were in charge of elections; Fu Gu and Yu Song participated in making plans; Zhong Hui, Xia Houxuan, Wang Su, Chen Ben, Meng Kang, Tan Feng, and Zhang Ji participated in the court meetings. They were admired by all the people and respected inside and outside the court.
Occasionally, there were people who asked for changes in the system. Emperor Jing said: "As if you don't know anything, you obey the laws of God and do it. This is what the poet praises."
The rules and regulations of three generations of ancestors should be observed; unless there is a war, they cannot be changed at will.
In the summer and May of the fifth year, Zhuge Ke, the Taifu of Wu State, besieged Xincheng. The court was worried that he would divide his troops to invade Huaisi and planned to guard various waterway ports.
Emperor Jing said: Zhuge Ke had recently gained power in Wu State, and wanted to seek temporary benefits. He gathered his troops in Hefei, hoping that he would succeed by luck and had no energy to cause trouble in Qingxu.
Besides, there is not one waterway port. If there are more guards, more troops will be needed. If there are fewer guards, it will not be enough to defend against the enemy.
Zhuge Ke indeed concentrated his troops in Hefei, just as Emperor Jing had speculated.
Emperor Jing sent General Guanqiu Jian, the general of Zhendong, Sai Zhen, the governor of Nuosu, and others to resist the enemy.
Dan Qiu Jian and Sai Zhen requested to go out to fight. Emperor Jing said: Zhuge Ke went all out to penetrate our side and put the army in danger. Their sharp edge was difficult to withstand.
Besides, the new city is small and strong, making it difficult for enemy troops to attack.
So he ordered the generals to build high forts to defend.
After several months of stalemate, Zhuge Ke's siege force was exhausted, and more than half of his troops were killed or injured.
Emperor Jing ordered Governor Wen Lian to lead his elite troops to Heyu to intercept the enemy's retreat, and Wu Danjun led the generals as his successors.
Jiang prisoner fled out of fear. Sai Xun went up to attack and defeated the enemy army, killing more than 10,000 enemies.
In the spring and first month of the first year of the fifth year, the emperor and Zhongshu Ling Li Feng, the Queen's father Guanglu doctor Zhang Ji, Huangmen Supervisor Su Shuo, Yongning Department Ling Leqian, red servant Liu Zhili and others planned to use Taichang Xing Lou Sai to replace Emperor Jing to assist the government.
Emperor Jing secretly knew about this and sent Wang Xian, his minister, to greet Kuifeng in his car.
Kuifeng was forced to follow Wang Dong to see Ji Tong, who listed his sins.
Kuifeng knew that disaster was coming, so he insulted him wantonly.
Emperor Jing was angry and sent warriors to beat him to death with sword-tipped darts.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
逮捕玄、缉等，皆夷三族。
三月，乃讽天子废皇后张氏，因下诏曰： 奸臣李丰等靖谮庸回，阴构凶慝。
大将军纠虔天刑，致之诛辟。
周勃之克吕氏，霍光之擒上官，曷以过之。
其增邑九千户，并前四万。
帝让不受。
天子以玄、缉之诛，深不自安。
而帝亦虑难作，潜谋废立，乃密讽魏永宁太后。
秋九月甲戌，太后下令曰： 皇帝春秋已长，不亲万机，耽淫内宠，沈嫚女德，日近倡优，纵其丑虐，迎六宫家人留止内房，毁人伦之叙，乱男女之节。
又为群小所迫，将危社稷，不可承奉宗庙。
帝召群臣会议，流涕曰： 太后令如是，诸君其如王室何？
translation: 
The arrest of Xia Houxuan, Zhang Ji and others reduced the number of three clans.
In March, he politely advised the emperor to depose Queen Zhang. The emperor then issued an edict saying: The treacherous official Li Feng and others are accustomed to listening to slander, using evil and evil, and secretly plotting evil.
The general inspector worshiped the laws of heaven and put them under the criminal law.
Zhou Bo surrendered to the Lu family, and Huo Guang captured Shangxuan's achievements, which are difficult to surpass.
9,000 additional households were added to the general's food estates, adding to the previous total of 40,000 households.
Emperor Jing declined and refused to accept.
The emperor felt deeply unsafe because Xia Houxuan and Zhang Ji were executed.
Liangcha was also worried about causing disaster and secretly planned to depose and re-establish the emperor, so he secretly advised the Empress Dowager Wei Yongning in a polite way.
In Jiaxu, the ninth month of autumn, the Empress Dowager issued an order: The emperor was too old to manage the complicated government affairs himself. He indulged in favors from the inner palace, indulged in lewdness, approached actors and actresses every day, indulged their ugly behavior, welcomed the concubine's family to stay in the inner palace, destroyed the morality between people, and disturbed the moral integrity of men and women.
He was coerced by a group of villains and was about to endanger the country, so he could not continue to worship the ancestral temple.
Emperor Jing convened a gathering of ministers for discussion, and said with tears: "The Queen Mother's order is this, what should we do with the royal family?"


Chunk 3: 
original: 
咸曰： 伊尹放太甲以宁殷，霍光废昌邑以安汉，权定社稷，以清四海。
二代行之于古，明公当之于今，今日之事，惟命是从。
帝曰： 诸君见望者重，安敢避之？
乃与群公卿士共奏太后曰： 臣闻天子者，所以济育群生，永安万国。
皇帝春秋已长，未亲万机，日使小优郭怀、袁信等裸袒淫戏。
又于广望观下作辽东妖妇，道路行人莫不掩目。
清商令令狐景谏帝，帝烧铁炙之。
太后遭合阳君丧，帝嬉乐自若。
清商丞庞熙谏帝，帝弗听。
太后还北宫，杀张美人，帝甚恚望。
熙谏，帝怒，复以弹弹熙。
每文书入，帝不省视。
太后令帝在式乾殿讲学，帝又不从。
不可以承天序。
臣请依汉霍光故事，收皇帝玺绶，以齐王归籓。
translation: 
The ministers all said: Yi Yin exiled Taijia to bring peace to Yin, Huo Guang deposed the king of Changyi to bring peace to Mo, weighed the priorities, stabilized the country, and brought peace to the world.
The Yin and Han dynasties did this in ancient times, and Ming Gong should do the same today. All matters today must be obeyed by Ming Gong's orders.
Emperor Jing said: Everyone has high expectations for me, how can I dare to evade them?
So he and all the ministers reported to the Queen Mother: "I heard that the emperor rescues and nourishes the people and makes the world stable for a long time."
The emperor was too old to manage the complicated government affairs himself, so he asked the young actors Guo Huai, Yuan Xin and others to expose their bodies and play lewd games every day.
She also dressed up as a coquettish woman from Liaodong under the watchful eye, and passers-by covered their eyes.
Linghu Jing, the merchant of the Qing Dynasty, admonished the emperor, but the emperor burned him with iron.
When the Queen Mother encountered the funeral of Lord Heyang, the Emperor laughed and entertained as usual.
Pang Xi, the Shang Cheng of the Qing Dynasty, advised the emperor, but the emperor did not listen.
The Queen Mother returned to the North Palace and killed Zhang Meiren. The Emperor was very resentful.
Pang Xi remonstrated, but the emperor was angry and shot Pang Xi with a slingshot.
Whenever documents were delivered, the emperor would not read them.
The Queen Mother ordered the Emperor to give lectures in Shiqian Hall, but the Emperor refused to comply.
He cannot carry on the royal line.
The minister requested that the emperor's seal be taken back according to the practice of Huo Guang in the Han Dynasty, and let him return to his fiefdom as the king of Qi.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
奏可，于是有司以太牢策告宗庙，王就乘舆副车，群臣从至西掖门。
帝泣曰： 先臣受历世殊遇，先帝临崩，托以遣诏。臣复忝重任，不能献可替否。
群公卿士，远翟旧典，为社稷深计，宁负圣躬，使宗庙血食。
于是使使者持节卫送，舍河内之重门，诛郭怀、袁信等。
是日，与群臣议所立。
帝曰： 方今宇宙未清，二虏争衡，四海之主，惟在贤哲。
彭城王据，太祖之子，以贤，则仁圣明允；以年，则皇室之长。
天位至重，不得其才，不足以宁济六合。
乃兴群公奏太后。
太后以彭城王先帝诸父，于昭穆之序为不次，则烈祖之世永无承嗣。
东海定王，明帝之弟，欲立其子高贵乡公髦。
帝固争不获，乃从太后令，遣使迎高贵乡公于元城而立之，改元曰正元。
天子受玺惰，举趾高，帝闻而忧之。
及将大会，帝训于天子曰： 夫圣王重始，正本敬初，古人所慎也。
明当大会，万众瞻穆穆之容，公卿听玉振之音。
translation: 
The Empress Dowager accurately reported that the relevant officials used cattle, sheep, and pigs as sacrifices to write simple policies and report to the ancestral temple. King Qi boarded the royal attendant's car, and the ministers followed him to Xiyemen.
Emperor Jing cried and said: My ancestors have received special treatment from past dynasties. When the late emperor was dying, he sent Shao to support him. I feel ashamed of my heavy responsibility and cannot teach people to do good or correct their mistakes.
Dear ministers, if you want to use ancient laws and consider the long-term interests of the country, you would rather betray the emperor himself and sacrifice the royal ancestral temple.
So he sent envoys holding talismans to escort him, and lived in Chongmen, Hanoi, to kill Guo Huai, Yuan Xin and others.
On the same day, he discussed with the ministers how to establish a new king.
Emperor Jing said: There is no peace in the world today, and two enemy countries are vying for victory. The monarchs of the four seas must be wise and sage people.
Cao Ju, King of Pengcheng, was the son of Taizu. In terms of wisdom, he was benevolent, sage, and fair. In terms of age, he was the eldest brother in the royal family.
The emperor's position is of vital importance. Without his talents, he would not be able to pacify and save the world.
So he and his ministers reported to the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother believed that King Pengcheng was the uncle of the late emperor and was not in line with the order of the patriarchal system. Then the lineage of Liezu would never be inherited.
King Shuhai Ding, the younger brother of Emperor Ming, planned to make his son Cao Mao, the Duke of Gaogui Township.
Emperor Jing persisted in arguing but failed, so he followed the Queen Mother's order and sent people to Yuancheng to welcome Gaogui Xiang Gong as the emperor, and changed his reign to Zhengyuan.
When the emperor accepted the seal, he was lazy and raised his feet very high. Emperor Jing was worried when he heard about it.
When the great court meeting was about to be held, Emperor Jing taught the emperor: A wise king values ​​the beginning and respects the beginning with integrity. This is what the ancients were cautious about.
Tomorrow, facing the great court meeting, everyone will look at the emperor's dignified appearance, and the minister will listen to the sweet voice.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
诗云： 示人不佻，是则是效。
易曰： 出其言善，则千里之外应之 。
虽礼仪周备，犹宜加之以祗恪，以副四海颙颙式仰。
癸巳，天子诏曰： 朕闻创业之君，必须股肱之臣；守文之主，亦赖匡佐之辅。
是故文武以吕召彰受命之功，宣王倚山甫享中兴之业。
大将军世载明德，应期作辅。
遭天降险，帝室多难，齐王莅政，不迪率典。
公履义执忠，以宁区夏，式是百辟，总齐庶事。
内摧寇虐，外静奸宄，日昃忧勤，劬劳夙夜。
德声光于上下，勋烈施于四方。
深惟大议，首建明策，权定社稷，援立朕躬，宗庙获安，亿兆庆赖。
伊挚之保乂殷邦，公旦之绥宁周室，蔑以尚焉。
朕甚嘉之。
夫德茂者位尊，庸大者禄厚，古今之通义也。
其登位相国，增邑九千，并前四万户；进号大都督、假黄钺，入朝不趋，奏事不名，剑履上殿；赐钱五百万，帛五千匹，以彰元勋。
translation: 
The Book of Songs says: What is shown to people is not frivolous and can be imitated.
"Book of Changes" says: If you say something good, someone thousands of miles away will respond.
Although the etiquette is thorough and complete, it should also be treated with respect and caution in order to be in line with the expectations of the world.
Guisi, the emperor issued an edict saying: I heard that a monarch who establishes a foundation must have capable ministers; an emperor who abides by established laws must also rely on ministers who can correct and assist.
Therefore, King Wen of Zhou and King Wu of Zhou continued to prosper by relying on Dantang and Chou Minister to receive the destiny, and King Danxuan relied on Shanlu to enjoy the performance of ZTE.
The general has virtues from generation to generation and assists the government in accordance with the weather.
The country suffered from dangers from heaven, and the royal family suffered many disasters. The King of Qi was on the throne and did not follow the laws.
The general fulfills justice and upholds loyalty, and comes to bring peace to China, to rectify all officials, and to take charge of common affairs.
The bandits and tyrants are destroyed internally, and the treacherous and rebellious ministers are suppressed externally. The sun is still in the west, and they are still toiling on state affairs, working day and night.
Moral prestige shines up and down, and meritorious deeds are spread in all directions.
Think deeply about grand discussions, first establish wise strategies, weigh the priorities, stabilize the country, and help me ascend to the throne, the ancestral temple will be peaceful, and all people will be happy and dependent.
Yi Zhi protects and governs the Yin State, and Gongdan An Ninglong is unable to surpass the general.
I give him a thumbs up.
People with high moral standards have a distinguished status, and people with great merits receive generous salaries. This is a truth that has been true from ancient times to the present.
The general was granted the title of Prime Minister, and 9,000 households were added to the settlement, adding to the previous total of 40,000 households; he was promoted to the title of Grand Governor, fake yellow iron, and he did not have to take small steps to enter the court. When reporting things, he did not need to state his name, but he could go to the palace with a sword and shoes; he was given five million in money and five thousand pieces of silk in recognition of his great achievements.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
帝固辞相国。
又上书训于天子曰： 荆山之璞虽美，不琢不成其宝；颜冉之才虽茂，不学不弘其量。
仲尼有云： 予非生而知之者，好古敏以求之者也。
仰观黄轩五代之主，莫不有所禀则，颛顼受学于绿图，高辛问道于柏招。逮至周成，旦望作辅，故能离经辩志，安道乐业。
夫然，故君道明于上，兆庶顺于下。
刑措之隆，实由于此。
宜遵先王下问之义，使讲诵之业屡闻于听，典谟之言日陈于侧也。
时天子颇修华饰，帝又谏曰： 履端初政，宜崇玄朴。
并敬纳焉。
十一月，有白气经天。
二年春正月，有彗星见于吴楚之分，西北竟天。
translation: 
Emperor Jing resolutely resigned from the position of prime minister.
He also wrote a letter admonishing the emperor: Although the jade in Jingshan is beautiful, it cannot become a treasure without carving. Although Yan Hui and Ran You are talented and knowledgeable, they cannot expand their knowledge without learning.
Zhongni said: I am not a person who knows things from birth, but a person who loves ancient things and diligently explores them. All the monarchs of the five generations since Huang Xuan have followed these principles.
Zhuan Xu received education from Lu Yuan, and Gao Xin asked Bai Zhao. When King Cheng of Zhou came, he was assisted by Zhou Gongdan and Lu Wang, so he could distinguish the main themes of the chapters and sentences in the scriptures, and he was content with the right path and was happy with his career.
Like this, then the way of the king is revealed above, and the common people obey below.
The prosperous age when criminal law was put aside actually came from this.
We should follow the spirit of the ancestors who were not ashamed to ask questions, so that lectures and poems can be heard frequently, and the words of the classics can be stated around them every day.
At that time, the emperor loved luxury and extravagance, and Emperor Jing advised him: "When you first get involved in government affairs, you should advocate simplicity."
The emperor respectfully accepted it.
In November, white clouds fill the sky.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, a comet appeared in the dividing line between Wu and Chu and disappeared in the northwest sky.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
镇东大将军毌丘俭、扬州刺史文钦举兵作乱，矫太后令移檄郡国，为坛盟于西门之外，各遣子四人质于吴以请救。
二月，俭、钦帅众六万，渡淮而西。
帝会公卿谋征讨计，朝议多谓可遣诸将击之，王肃及尚书傅嘏、中书侍郎钟会劝帝自行。
戊午，帝统中军步骑十余万以征之。
倍道兼行，召三方兵，大会于陈许之郊。
甲申，次于隐桥，俭将史招、李绩相次来降。
俭、钦移入项城，帝遣荆州刺史王基进据南顿以逼俭。
帝深壁高垒，以待东军之集。
诸将请进军攻其城，帝曰： 诸君得其一，未知其二。
淮南将士本无反志。
且俭、钦欲蹈纵横之迹，习仪秦之说，谓远近必应。
而事起之日，淮北不从，史招、李绩前后瓦解。
translation: 
Qiu Jian, the mother of the general Zhendong, and Wen Qin, the governor of Yangzhou, rebelled. Under the pretense of the Queen Mother's order, they sent a message to the county, set up an altar outside the west gate to swear an oath, and each sent four sons to serve as hostages in the state of Wu to ask for help.
In February, Mu Qiujian and Wenqin led 60,000 troops to cross the Huaihe River and march westward.
Emperor Jing gathered his ministers to plan the conquest. Most of the discussions in the court believed that generals could be dispatched to send troops. Wang Su, Shangshu Fu Gu, and Zhongshu Shilang Zhong Hui persuaded Emperor Jing to go out in person.
In Wuwu, Emperor Jing led more than 100,000 Chinese infantry and cavalry to conquer.
Traveling day and night, he summoned armies from all three parties and gathered in the countryside of Chen Xu in large numbers.
Jiashen was stationed at Chuqiao, and his mother Qiujian's generals Shi Zhao and Li Xu surrendered one after another.
Guanqiu Jian and Wen Qin moved their troops to Xiangcheng, and Emperor Jing sent Wang Ji, the governor of Jingzhou, to march and occupy Nandun to force Guanqiu Jian.
Emperor Jing built high barriers and waited for Shumian's army to gather.
The generals asked to march to attack Xiangcheng. Emperor Jing said: You only know one, but not the other.
The soldiers south of the Huaihe River had no intention of rebellion.
Moreover, Ceqiu Jian and Wen Qin wanted to follow the path of the political advisors and learn from the theories of Zhang Yi and Su Qin, thinking that the distant and near would definitely respond.
However, when the rebellion was launched, the people north of the Huaihe River did not comply, and Shi Zhao and Li Xu collapsed one after another.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
内乖外叛，自知必败，困兽思斗，速战更合其志。
虽云必克，伤人亦多。
且俭等欺诳将士，诡变万端，小与持久，诈情自露，此不战而克之也。
乃遣诸葛诞督豫州诸军自安风向寿春，征东将军胡遵督青、徐诸军出谯宋之间，绝其归路。
帝屯汝阳，遣竞州刺史邓艾督太山诸军进屯乐嘉，示弱以诱之。
钦进军将攻艾，帝潜军衔枚，轻造乐嘉，与钦相遇。
钦子鸯，年十八，勇冠三军，谓钦曰： 及其未定，请登城鼓噪，击之可破也。
既谋而行，三噪而钦不能应，鸯退，相与引而东。
帝谓诸将曰： 钦走矣。
命发锐军以追之。
诸将皆曰： 钦旧将，鸯少而锐，引军内入，未有失利，必不走也。
帝曰： 一鼓作气，再而衰，三而竭。
鸯三鼓，钦不应，其势已屈，不走何待？
钦将遁，鸯曰： 不先折其势，不得去也。
乃与骁骑十余摧锋陷阵，所向皆披靡，遂引去。
帝遣左长史司马琏督骁骑八千翼而追之，使将军乐林等督步兵继其后。
比至沙阳，频陷钦阵，弩矢雨下，钦蒙盾而驰。
大破其军。众皆投戈而降，钦父子与麾下走保项。
俭闻钦败，弃众宵遁淮南。
安风津都尉追俭，斩之，传首京都。
钦遂奔吴，淮南平。
初，帝目有瘤疾，使医割之。
鸯之来攻也，惊而目出。
惧六军之恐，蒙之以被，痛甚，啮被败而左右莫知焉。
闰月疾笃，使文帝总统诸军。
translation: 
Internally disobedient, externally betrayed, knowing that they must fail, the trapped beasts want a duel, and a quick fight is more to their liking.
Although the enemy will definitely be defeated, it will also hurt many people.
Besides, Mu Qiujian and others deceived the soldiers and were very cunning and fickle. If we stay with them for a while, the deception will naturally be exposed, and we can win without a fight.
So Governor Zhuge Dan was sent to lead the Yuzhou armies to march from Anfeng to Shouchun. General Hu Zundu, the General of the East Conquest, led the Qing and Xu armies to send troops between Qiao and Song Dynasties to cut off the rebels' retreat.
Emperor Ji stationed troops in Ruyang and sent Deng Aidu, the governor of Yanzhou, to lead the troops from Mount Tai to garrison Lejia to show weakness and lure the enemy.
Wen Qin was about to attack Deng Ai. Emperor Jing secretly sent troops and went straight to Lejia to meet Wen Qin.
Wen Qin's son Wen Yang, eighteen years old and the most courageous among the three armies, said to Wen Qin: While the opponent's footing is not stable, please go up to the city wall and beat the drum and shout, you can defeat the opponent.
Then he acted according to his plan and shouted three times but Wen Qin could not respond. Wenyang retreated and led his troops east together.
Emperor Liang said to his generals: Wen Qin has escaped.
Ordered to send elite troops to pursue Wen Qin.
All the generals said: Wen Qin has been on the battlefield for a long time, and Wen Yang is young and energetic. He led the army into Xiangcheng without defeat and will not escape.
Emperor Jing said: If you work hard at one moment, you will be weak again, and you will be exhausted after three times.
Sai Jin beat the drum three times, but Sai Biao didn't respond. Their momentum was exhausted. If they didn't escape, what were they waiting for?
Wen Qin was about to escape, but Wen Chou said: "We can't leave without first destroying the enemy's spirit."
So he and more than a dozen brave cavalry attacked the position of Emperor Jing's army. They were invincible, and then led the troops to retreat.
Emperor Jing sent the left commander Shi Sima Lian to lead eight thousand strong cavalry to pursue the enemy from the flank, and sent General Le Sui and other governors to lead the infantry to follow.
When they arrived in Shayang, they attacked Wenqin's military formation many times. The arrows they fired were as dense as rain, and Wenqin ran away with his shield on his back.
The enemy army was defeated and everyone threw down their weapons and surrendered. Wen Qin, his son and his men fled to Baoxi City.
When Dandanjian heard that Saifu was defeated, he abandoned everyone and fled to the south of the Huaihe River overnight.
Captain An Fengjin caught up with his mother Qiu Jian, killed him, and sent Dan Qiu Jian's head to Kyoto.
Sai Zhen then defected to the state of Cheng, and Huainan was pacified.
At first, Emperor Jing had a tumor on his eye and asked the doctor to remove it.
When Saizu attacked, Liangtong's eyes went in and out due to fright.
Afraid that the Sixth Army would panic, they covered their heads with a quilt. The pain was so unbearable that they bit the quilt to pieces, but no one around them knew about it.
In the leap month, the illness worsened, and Saitong was asked to take charge of the army.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
辛亥，崩于许昌，时年四十八。
二月，帝之丧至自许昌，天子素服临吊，诏曰： 公有济世宁国之勋，克定祸乱之功，重之以死王事，宜加殊礼。
其令公卿议制。
有司议以为忠安社稷，功济宇内，宜依霍光故事，追加大司马之号以冠大将军，增邑五万户，谥曰武公。
文帝表让曰： 臣亡父不敢受丞相相国九命之礼，亡兄不敢受相国之位，诚以太祖常所阶历也。
今谥与二祖同，必所祗惧。
昔萧何、张良、霍光咸有匡佐之功，何谥文终，良谥文成，光谥宣成必以文武为谥，请依何等就加。
诏许之，谥曰忠武。
晋国既建，追尊曰景王。
武帝受禅，上尊号曰景皇帝，陵曰峻平，庙称世宗。
文皇帝讳昭，字子上，景帝之母弟也。
魏景初二年，封新城乡侯。
正始初，为洛阳典农中郎将。
translation: 
He died in Xuchang in Xinhai at the age of forty-eight.
In February, Jitong's funeral carriage arrived in Kyoto from Zhudan. The emperor came to mourn in person in plain clothes.
Order the ministers to discuss the funeral arrangements.
Relevant officials discussed that Emperor Jing's loyalty had stabilized the country and his achievements had saved the world, so Huo Guang's precedent should be followed. The title of Grand Sima was added in front of the General, and fifty thousand households were added to the city, and Mi was given the title of Duke Wu.
Emperor Wen expressed his resignation and said: My late father did not dare to accept the courtesy of Prime Minister Xiang Guo Jiu Ming, and my late brother did not dare to accept the high position of Xiang Guo, all because Taizu once served as prime minister.
Now that the title of Mi is the same as that of Emperor Wu and Emperor Wen, it must be frightening.
In the past, Xiao He, Zhang Liang, and Huo Guang all contributed to saving the situation and assisting the monarch. Xiao He's nickname was Wen Zhong, Zhang Liang's nickname was Wencheng, and Huo Guang's nickname was Xuancheng. If you must use Wenwu as your nickname, please follow the precedents of Xiao He and others when adding gifts.
The emperor agreed to the edict and named Mi Zhongwu.
After the establishment of Jin State. The additional honorary title is King Jing.
Emperor Wu accepted the concession and was honored as Emperor Jing, the mountain mausoleum was called Junping, and the ancestral temple was called Shizong.
Emperor Wen, whose name is Zishang, is the half-brother of Emperor Jing.
In the second year of Wei Jingchu's reign, he was granted the title of Xincheng Rural Marquis.
In the early years of Zhengshi, he was appointed as the lieutenant general of Diannong in Luoyang.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
值魏明奢侈之后，帝蠲除苛碎，不夺农时，百姓大悦。
转散骑常侍。
大将军曹爽之伐蜀也，以帝为征蜀将军，副夏侯玄出骆谷，次于兴势。
蜀将王林夜袭帝营，帝坚卧不动。
林退，帝谓玄曰： 费祎以据险距守，进不获战，攻之不可，宜亟旋军，以为后图。
爽等引旋，祎果驰兵趣三岭，争险乃得过。
遂还，拜议郎。
及诛曹爽，帅众卫二宫，以功增邑千户。
蜀将姜维之寇陇右也，征西将军郭淮自长安距之。
进帝位安西将军、持节，屯关中，为诸军节度。
淮攻维别将句安于麹，久而不决。
帝乃进据长城，南趣骆谷以疑之。
维惧，退保南郑，安军绝援，帅众来降。
转安东将军、持节，镇许昌。
及大军讨王凌，帝督淮北诸军事，帅师会于项。
增邑三百户，假金印紫绶。
寻进号都督，统征东将军胡遵、镇东将军诸葛诞伐吴，战于东关。
二军败绩，坐失侯。
蜀将姜维又寇陇右，扬声欲攻狄道。
以帝行征西将军，次长安。
雍州刺史陈泰欲先贼据狄道，帝曰： 姜维攻羌，收其质任，聚谷作邸阁讫，而复转行至此，正欲了塞外诸羌，为后年之资耳。
若实向狄道，安肯宣露，令外人知？
今扬声言出，此欲归也。
维果烧营而去。
会新平羌胡叛，帝击破之，遂耀兵灵州，北虏震詟，叛者悉降。
translation: 
It was the late period of Emperor Wei Ming's extravagant style. Emperor Wen exempted him from harsh and cumbersome conditions and did not take up farming time. The people were very happy.
He was transferred to serve as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
When the general Cao Shuang was conquering Shu, he appointed Emperor Wen as the general to conquer Shu. As Xia Houxuan's deputy, he sent troops to Luo Valley and stationed himself in Xingshi.
Shu general Wang Lin attacked Emperor Wen's camp at night, but Emperor Wen lay motionless.
Wang Lin retreated, and Emperor Wen said to Xia Houxuan: Fei Zhang occupied a dangerous position to resist and hold on. We can't fight if we advance, and we can't attack by force. We should return to the army as soon as possible and think about it later.
Cao Shuang and others led their troops to retreat, and as expected, Fei Zhang led his troops to pursue them straight to the Three Ridges. After a battle and many obstacles, the Wei army was able to pass.
So he returned to the court and paid homage to Yilang.
When Cao Shuang was executed, he led the people to defend the second palace. Due to his meritorious service, he gained an additional 1,000 households.
When Shu general Jiang Wei invaded Longxi, General Guo Huai sent troops from Chang'an to defend against the enemy.
Emperor Wen was promoted to the general of Anxi and held a festival, and he stationed troops in Guanzhong to control the military affairs.
Guo Huai attacked Jiang Wei's deputy general Ju'an in Qudi, and the outcome was indecisive for a long time.
Emperor Wen then marched to occupy the Great Wall and ran south to Luo Valley to confuse the enemy.
Jiang Wei was frightened and withdrew his troops to defend Nan Yin. Jushi's army cut off support and led everyone to surrender.
Emperor Wen was transferred to General Anshu and Chijie to guard Xuchang.
When the army attacked Wang Jun, Emperor Wen supervised the affairs of the armies in Huaibei and led the army to join forces in Xiangdi.
Three hundred households were added to the city, and they were temporarily granted gold seals and purple ribbons.
Soon he was promoted to governor, and he led Hu Zun, the general who conquered the east, and Zhuge Dan, the general who Zhendong, to attack the state of Wu and fought at Shuguan.
The two armies fought and were defeated, and they were convicted and lost the marquis.
Jiang Wei, the general of Shu, invaded Longxi again and threatened to attack Didao.
Emperor Wen was sent to temporarily serve as General of the Expedition to the West and stationed in Chang'an.
Chen Tai, the governor of Yongzhou, planned to occupy Didao before the enemy came. Emperor Wen said: Jiang Wei attacked the Qiang, took their hostages, gathered grain and grass to build a munitions depot, and then diverted the march to Zaojie. It was precisely because he wanted to settle the affairs of the Qiang tribe outside the wall and use it as future capital.
If we really want to attack Didao. How can you publicize the exposure and let outsiders know?
Now that he is threatening to send troops, he is planning to take action.
As expected, Jiang Wei burned the military camp and retreated.
Just when the Qiang and Hu tribes in Xinping rebelled, Emperor Wen defeated them and showed off his troops in Lingzhou. The enemies in the north were shocked and frightened, and the rebels surrendered.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
以功复封新城乡侯。
高贵乡公之立也，以参定策，进封高都侯，增封二千户。
毌丘俭、文钦之乱，大军东征，帝兼中领军，留镇洛阳。
及景帝疾笃，帝自京都省疾，拜卫将军。
景帝崩，天子命帝镇许昌，尚书傅嘏帅六军还京师。
帝用嘏及钟会策，自帅军而还。
至洛阳，进位大将军加侍中，都督中外诸军、录尚书事，辅政，剑履上殿。
帝固辞不受。
甘露元年春正月，加大都督，奏事不名。
夏六月，进封高都公，地方七百里，加之九锡，假斧钺，进号大都督，剑履上殿。
又固辞不受。
秋八月庚申，加假黄钺，增封三县。
translation: 
Because of his meritorious service, he was again granted the title of Xincheng Rural Marquis.
When Gaogui Township was established as the king, because Saitong participated in the formulation of the strategy, he was granted the title of Gaodu Marquis and was granted the title of two additional households in the city.
When Tan Qiujian and Wen Qin rebelled, the army marched eastward. Emperor Wen served as the leader of the army and stayed behind to guard Luoyang.
When Emperor Jing became seriously ill, Emperor Wen went to visit him from Kyoto and was appointed General of the Guard.
After Emperor Jing died, the emperor ordered Emperor Wen to guard Xuchang, and Shangshu Su led the Sixth Army back to the capital.
Saitong adopted the strategy of attacking the bell box and led his army back.
When he arrived in Luoyang, he was promoted to the rank of general, and was added to the rank of attendant. He was in charge of all the Chinese and foreign armies, recorded the affairs of the ministers, assisted in the affairs of the court, and went to the palace wearing swords and shoes.
Emperor Wen resolutely refused to accept it.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Ju Ling's reign, he was granted the title of Grand Governor, and there was no need to give his name when performing duties.
In the sixth month of summer, he was granted the title of Duke of Gaodu, with a circumference of seven hundred miles, plus nine tins, an ax and cymbals, and the title of Grand Governor. He wore a sword and wore shoes to go to the palace.
And he firmly refused to accept it.
In autumn and August, Geng Shen added fake yellow iron and enfeoffed three more counties.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
二年夏五月辛未，镇东大将军诸葛诞杀扬州刺史乐綝，以淮南作乱，遣子靓为质于吴以请救。
议者请速伐之，帝曰： 诞以毌丘俭轻疾倾覆，今必外连吴寇，此为变大而迟。
吾当与四方同力，以全胜制之。
乃表曰： 昔黥布叛逆，汉祖亲征；隗嚣违戾，光武西伐；烈祖明皇帝乘舆仍出：皆所以奋扬赫斯，震耀威武也。
陛下宜暂临戎，使将士得凭天威。
今诸军可五十万，以众击寡，蔑不克矣。
秋七月，奉天子及皇太后东征，征兵青、徐、荆、豫，分取关中游军，皆会淮北。
师次于项，假廷尉何桢节，使淮南，宣慰将士，申明逆顺，示以诛赏。
甲戌，帝进军丘头。
吴使文钦、唐咨、全端、全怿等三万余人来救诞，诸将逆击，不能御。
将军李广临敌不进，泰山太守常时称疾不出，并斩之以徇。
八月，吴将硃异帅兵万余人，留辎重于都陆，轻兵至黎浆。
监军石苞、衮州刺史州泰御之，异退。
泰山太守胡烈以奇兵袭都陆，焚其粮运。
苞、泰复进击异，大破之。
异之余卒馁甚，食葛叶而遁，吴人杀异。
帝曰： 异不得至寿春，非其罪也，而吴人杀之，适以谢寿春而坚诞意，使其犹望救耳。
若其不尔，彼当突围，决一旦之命。
translation: 
At the end of the fifth month in the summer of the second year, Zhuge Dan, the general of Zhendong, killed Luan Ji, the governor of Yangzhou, and caused trouble in the south. He sent his son Zhuge Liang to Wu as a hostage to ask for reinforcements.
The deliberation people requested that he be defeated quickly. Sai Tong said: Because Jiang Xi saw Dan Dan Jian's weak army and was quickly destroyed, he must have colluded with Wu State, which made him increase his troops and move slowly.
We should work together with all parties to defeat Zhuge Dan with complete victory.
So the above table says: In the past, when Ying Bu rebelled, Gao Dan of the Han Dynasty personally conquered it; when Kui Xiao rebelled, Guang Gen traveled to the west to conquer; and Liezu Ming Huangtong's chariots were frequently dispatched. These are all to stimulate publicity and show off the power of force.
Your Majesty should temporarily visit the battlefield in person so that the soldiers can rely on the emperor's reputation.
Now there are about 500,000 troops in the army. With more people attacking less people, they are invincible.
In the seventh month of autumn, the emperor and the empress dowager gathered together to recruit troops in Qing, Xu, Jing, and Yu. They also recruited some mobile troops from Guanzhong and gathered in Huaibei.
The army was stationed in Xiang, and Tingwei He Zhen was ordered to hold the talisman and go to Huainan to express comfort to the soldiers, affirm the loyalty of the rebellious people, and punish and reward them.
In Jiaxu, Emperor Wen marched to Qiutou.
The state of Wu sent more than 30,000 men including Wen Qin, Tang Zi, Quan Duan, and Quan Tang to rescue Zhuge Dan. The generals met him and were unable to resist.
General Li Guang refused to advance in the face of the enemy, and the Taishan prefect often claimed to be ill and refused to go out, so he killed them all in public.
In August, Wu general Zhu Yi led more than 10,000 troops. He left the baggage in Dulu and arrived at Lijing with light troops.
Shi Bao, the supervisor of the army, and Zhou Tai, the governor of Yanzhou, resisted the Wu army, but Zhu Yi withdrew.
Hu Lie, the governor of Taishan, sent out a surprise attack on Dulu and burned the Wu army's grain and fodder vehicles.
Shi Bao and Zhou Tai attacked Zhu Yi again and defeated the enemy.
Zhu Yi's remaining soldiers were so hungry that they ate kudzu leaves and fled. The Wu people killed Zhu Yi.
Emperor Wen said: Zhu Yi's failure to reach Shouchun was not his fault, but the Wu people killed him precisely to apologize to Shouchun, thus strengthening Zhuge Dan's belief in defending the city and making him still hope to rescue troops.
If Zhuge Dan was not like this, he would break out and fight to the death for a while.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
或谓大军不能久，省食减口，冀有他变。
料贼之情，不出此三者。
今当多方以乱之，备其越逸，此胜计也。
因命合围，分遣羸疾就谷淮北，禀军士大豆，人三升。
钦闻之，果喜。
帝愈羸形以示之，多纵反间，扬言吴救方至。
诞等益宽恣食，俄而城中乏粮。
石苞、王基并请攻之，帝曰： 诞之逆谋，非一朝一夕也，聚粮完守，外结吴人，自谓足据淮南。
钦既同恶相济，必不便走。
今若急攻之，损游军之力。
外寇卒至，表里受敌，此危道也。
今三叛相聚于孤城之中，天其或者将使同戮。
吾当以长策縻之，但坚守三面。
若贼陆道而来，军粮必少，吾以游兵轻骑绝其转输，可不战而破外贼。
外贼破，钦等必成擒矣。
translation: 
Or they think that the army cannot besieged for a long time, so they cut back on food and look forward to other changes.
It is estimated that the situation of the enemy soldiers cannot fall into these three categories.
Now we should confuse them in many ways and prevent them from escaping. This is a strategy for winning the war.
So he ordered the encirclement to be closed, and sent the sick and weak in batches to Huaibei to obtain supplies. They opened a warehouse and distributed soybeans to the sergeants, three liters per person.
Wen Qin was really happy when he heard the news.
Emperor Wen even showed that his troops were weak and used counter-questioning tactics many times, threatening that Wu's reinforcements were coming soon.
Zhuge Dan and others felt free to eat and drink as they pleased, and soon there was a shortage of food in the city.
Shi Bao and Wang Ji jointly requested an attack. Emperor Wen said: Zhuge Dan's rebellion did not happen overnight. He gathered food to repair the garrison, colluded with the people of Wu, and thought he was enough to occupy Huainan.
Since Wen Qin is helping evil, he will not escape easily.
If we rush to attack now, it will damage the strength of the mobile troops.
Foreign invaders suddenly arrive and you are surrounded by enemies. This is a dangerous road.
Now three rebels are gathered together in an isolated city, and God may cause them to be killed at the same time.
We should use a long-term strategy to contain the enemy, and we only need to hold on to three sides.
If the enemy comes from overland, the rations will be low. We can use the lightly equipped and fast cavalry to cut off their transit transportation and defeat the foreign enemy without engaging in combat.
If the foreign enemy is defeated, Wen Qin and others will surely become prisoners.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
全怿母，孙权女也，得罪于吴，全端兄子祎及仪奉其母来奔。
仪兄静时在寿春，用钟会计，作祎、仪书以谲静。
静兄弟五人帅其众来降，城中大骇。
三年春正月壬寅，诞、钦等出攻长围，诸军逆击，走之。
初，诞、钦内不相协，及至穷蹙，转相疑贰。
会钦计事与诞忤，诞手刃杀钦。
钦子鸯攻诞，不克，逾城降。
以为将军，封侯，使鸯巡城而呼。
帝见城上持弓者不发，谓诸将曰： 可攻矣！
二月乙酉，攻而拔之，斩诞，夷三族。
吴将唐咨、孙弥、徐韶等帅其属皆降，表加爵位，禀其馁疾。
或言吴兵必不为用，请坑之。
帝曰： 就令亡还，适见中国之弘耳。
于是徙之三河。
夏四月，归于京师，魏帝命改丘头曰武丘，以旌武功。
translation: 
Quan Yun's mother, the daughter of Sun Quan, offended the state of Wu, so Quan Duan's nephews Quan Zhang and Quan Yi came to seek refuge with their mother.
Quan Jing, Quan Yi's elder brother, was in Shouchun at the time. He adopted Zhong Hui's plan and forged letters from Quan Zhang and Quan Yi to deceive Quan Jing.
The five Quan Jing brothers led their men to surrender, causing great panic in Shouchun City.
In the spring of the third year of the first month of Renyin, Zhuge Dan, Wen Qin and others went out to attack the besieging army. The armies met and defeated them.
At first, Zhuge Xiu and his father were in harmony with each other, but when they were in a difficult situation, they became suspicious.
It happened that Wen Qin and Zhuge Dan had different opinions when discussing matters, so Zhan Jiangxi killed Sai Fu with a knife.
Sai Zhan's son Sai Zhan attacked Zhan Jiangdan, but failed, so he left the city and surrendered.
He was made a general, made a marquis, and sent Wen Yang around the city to call him.
Emperor Wen saw that the men holding bows in the city did not release arrows, so he said to the generals: "We can attack the city."
In February Yiyou, he attacked the city and captured it. He killed Zhuge Dan and exterminated the three tribes.
The Wu generals Tang Zi, Sun Man, Sun Mi, Xu Shao and others led their subordinates to surrender, commending them with titles and titles, and providing relief to those who were hungry and sick.
Some people said that Wu soldiers would definitely not serve Wei, and requested that they be buried alive.
Emperor Wen said: Even if they escape back to Yuxi, it just shows the generosity of our country in the Central Plains.
So they migrated to Sanhe.
In April of summer, when he returned to the capital, Emperor Wei ordered Qiutou to be renamed Wuqiu in recognition of martial arts.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
五月，天子以并州之太原上党西河乐平新兴雁门、司州之河东平阳八郡，地方七百里，封帝为晋公，加九锡，进位相国，晋国置官司焉。
九让，乃止。
于是增邑万户，食三县，诸子之无爵者皆封列侯。
秋七月，奏录先世名臣元功大勋之子了，随才叙用。
四年夏六月，分荆州置二都督，王基镇新野，州泰镇襄阳。
使石苞都督扬州，陈骞都督豫州，钟毓都督徐州，宋钧监青州诸军事。景元元年夏四月，天子复命帝爵秩如前，又让不受。
天子既以帝三世宰辅，政非己出，情不能安，又虑废辱，将临轩召百僚而行放黜。
五月戊子夜，使冗从仆射李昭等发甲于陵云台，召侍中王沈、散骑常侍王业、尚书王经，出怀中黄素诏示之，戒严俟旦。
translation: 
In the fifth month, the emperor enfeoffed eight counties in Bingzhou including Taiyuan, Shangdang, Xihe, Lenuo, Shiyu, Yadan, Danmaggot's Mi, and Zhihuan, with a radius of 700 miles. He granted Saiyi the title of Duke of Jin, granted him nine tins, entered the palace as the prime minister, and set up an official office in Zhixi.
Saitong resigned nine times before giving up.
So he added 10,000 households and collected taxes from three counties. His sons without titles were all made marquis.
In the seventh month of autumn, the emperor was asked to appoint the descendants of famous ministers of the previous dynasty and those who had made great achievements, and appointed them according to their talents.
In the summer and June of the fourth year, Jingzhou was divided and two governors were set up. Wang Ji guarded Maiying and Bao guarded Xiang District.
Gen Bao was appointed as the governor of Laozhen, Qiang was appointed the governor of Han, and Qun was appointed the governor of Qu, who was responsible for supervising all military affairs. In the summer and April of the first year of the fifth year of Jiji, the emperor ordered to give Emperor Wen the salary for his previous title, but he declined and refused to accept it.
The emperor was uneasy because Emperor Wen had assisted in government affairs for three generations and did not issue the decrees himself. He was also worried about being deposed and humiliated, so he would go to the main hall in person to summon officials to banish and depose Emperor Wen.
On the night of Wuzi in the fifth month, he sent his servants Li Zhao and others to launch troops at Lingyuntai. He called Wang Shen, the servant, Wang Ye, the minister Wang Jing, and took out the yellow silk Shao book in his arms to read to them. They were under martial law and waited for dawn.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
沈、业驰告于帝，帝召护军贾充等为之备。
天子知事泄，帅左右攻相府，称有所讨，敢有动者族诛。
相府兵将止不敢战，贾充叱诸将曰： 公畜养汝辈，正为今日耳！
太子舍人成济抽戈犯跸，刺之，刃出于背，天子崩于车中。
帝召百僚谋其故，仆射陈泰不至。
帝遣其舅荀顗舆致之，延于曲室，谓曰： 玄伯，天下其如我何？
泰曰： 惟腰斩贾充，微以谢天下。
帝曰： 卿更思其次。
泰曰： 但见其上。不见其次。
于是归罪成济而斩之。
太后令曰： 昔汉昌邑王以罪发为庶人，此兒亦宜以庶人礼葬之，使外内咸知其所行也。
杀尚书王经，贰于我也。
庚寅，帝奏曰： 故高贵乡公帅从驾人兵，拔刃鸣鼓向臣所，臣惧兵刃相接，即敕将士不得有所伤害，违令者以军法从事。
骑督成倅弟太子舍人济入兵阵，伤公至陨。
臣闻人臣之节，有死无贰，事上之义，不敢逃难。
translation: 
Wang Chen and Wang Ye quickly reported to Emperor Wen, who summoned the guard Jia Chong and others to make preparations.
Knowing that the incident was leaked, the emperor led his men to attack the Prime Minister's Mansion, claiming that there was rebellion and wanted to punish anyone who dared to act rashly and kill the entire clan.
The soldiers in the Prime Minister's Mansion stopped and did not dare to fight. Maichong scolded the generals and said: "Sima Gong supports you people just for today!"
The prince, Cheng Ji, took out his weapon and attacked the chariot, stabbing the emperor from the back. The emperor died in the chariot.
Emperor Wen summoned all officials to discuss the incident, but his servant Chen Tai was not present.
Emperor Wen sent his uncle Xunjie to pick him up in a car and lead him into a secret room. Emperor Wen said to him: Uncle Xuan, what will the world do to me?
Chen Tai said: Only by cutting Jia Chong in half can he not apologize to the world.
Emperor Wen said: Please consider other methods.
Chen Tai said: I only see the best strategy, but not the second best.
So he blamed Chengji and killed him.
The Queen Mother ordered: "In the past, the king of Han Changyi was deposed as a commoner because of his crimes. This man should also be buried with the courtesy of a commoner, so that both inside and outside the court will know what he has done."
He killed Wang Jing, the minister, because he was disloyal to himself.
Wushen, Emperor Wen reported: The late noble countryman led his soldiers and horses, drew swords and beat drums and rushed towards my house. I did not dare to use force to fight, so I immediately ordered the soldiers not to hurt anyone. Anyone who disobeyed the order should be dealt with according to military law.
Prince Chengji, the younger brother of Cavalry Governor Cheng Chou, rushed into the army formation and killed the noble countryman, killing him.
I know the moral integrity of a minister and should be loyal to death; I serve the righteousness of the monarch and dare not avoid disaster.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
前者变故卒至，祸同发机，诚欲委身守死，惟命所裁。
然惟本谋，乃欲上危皇太后，倾覆宗庙。
臣忝当元辅，义在安国，即骆驿申敕，不得迫近舆辇。
而济妄入阵间，以致大变，哀怛痛恨，五内摧裂。
济干国乱纪，罪不容诛，辄收济家属，付廷尉。
太后从之，夷济三族。
与公卿议，立燕王宇之子常道乡公璜为帝。
六月，改元。
丙辰，天子进帝为相国，封晋公，增十郡，加九锡如初，群从子弟未侯者封亭侯，赐钱千万，帛万匹。
固让，乃止。
冬十一月，吴吉阳督萧慎以书诣镇东将军石苞伪降，求迎。
帝知其诈也，使苞外示迎之，而内为之备。
二年秋八月甲寅，天子使太尉高柔授帝相国印绶，司空郑冲致晋公茅土九锡，固辞。
三年夏四月，肃慎来献楛矢、石砮、弓甲、貂皮等，天子命归于大将军府。
四年春二月丁丑，天子复命帝如前，又固让。
三月，诏大将军府增置司马一人，从事中郎二人，舍人十人。
translation: 
The changes that happened before happened suddenly, and the disaster was like an arrow on the string. I really wanted to hand over my life and wait for death, and let fate decide.
However, considering that this plot is to endanger the empress dowager and subvert the ancestral temple.
I am worthy of being the head of the ministers, and the most important thing is to stabilize the country, so I kept telling my sincerity and was not allowed to approach the emperor's carriage.
Cheng Ji rushed into the battle, causing a big change. I was sad, painful and regretful, and my internal organs were torn apart.
Cheng Ji violated the monarch and disturbed the law. Even if he was sentenced to death, he could not atone for his crime, so he captured his family members and handed them over to Tingwei.
The Queen Mother obeyed and destroyed the three clans of Chengji.
After discussing with the ministers, Cao Huang, the son of Cao Yu, the king of Yan, was appointed emperor.
In June, the year was changed.
In Bingchen, the emperor was promoted to Emperor Wen as the prime minister, and was granted the title of Duke of Jin. Ten more counties were added, and Jiuxi was awarded as before. Those uncles, brothers, nephews who had not yet been ennobled were granted the title of Tinghou, and were given tens of millions of money and ten thousand pieces of silk.
Emperor Wen resolutely resigned before giving up.
In November of winter, Xiao Shen, the governor of Jiyang of Wu State, wrote to General Genbao of Zhendong, pretending to surrender and requesting support.
Emperor Wen knew that he was cheating, so he asked Shi Bao to welcome him on the surface and make preparations secretly.
In the autumn and August of the second year of Jiayin, the emperor sent Taiwei Gaorou to grant the official seal of the state to Emperor Wen, and sent Sikong Zheng Chong to give the mao soil and nine tins to the Duke of Jin to symbolize the enfeoffment. Emperor Wen resolutely refused.
In the summer and April of the third year, Su Shen came to offer arrows, stone pans, bows, armor, mink skins, etc., and the emperor ordered them to be delivered to the general's palace.
In the spring and February of the fourth year of Ding Chou, the emperor appointed Sai Tong again as before, but resolutely resigned.
In March, an edict was issued, ordering the general's office to add a Sima to serve as a middleman, leaving ten people behind.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
夏，帝将伐蜀，乃谋众曰： 自定寿春已来，息役六年，治兵缮甲，以拟二虏。
略计取吴，作战船，通水道，当用千余万功，此十万人百数十日事也。
又南土下湿，必生疾疫。
今宜先取蜀，三年之后，在巴蜀顺流之势，水陆并进，此灭虞定虢，吞韩并魏之势也。
计蜀战士九万，居守成都及备他郡不下四万，然则余众不过五万。
今绊姜维于沓中，使不得东顾，直指骆谷，出其空虚之地，以袭汉中。
彼若婴城守险，兵势必散，首尾离绝。
举大众以屠城，散锐卒以略野，剑阁不暇守险，关头不能自存。
以刘禅之暗，而边城外破，士女内震，其亡可知也。
征西将军邓艾以为未有衅，屡陈异议。
translation: 
In the summer, General Saihu attacked Xingli, so he planned with everyone: Since Shouchun was pacified, there has been no war for six years. Soldiers are trained, weapons are repaired, and preparations are made to destroy the two enemy countries.
If you plan to capture Wu Li, you must build warships. Dredging the river channel would require more than tens of millions of manpower, which would take more than 100,000 people and more than 100 days.
Besides, the low and humid terrain in the south will definitely produce plague diseases.
Now we should attack Shu first. After three years, we can go down the river from Danshu and attack by land and water. This is the situation of destroying Lu Pingding and swallowing the Korean annexation ball.
It is calculated that there are 90,000 Xingli warriors, and no less than 40,000 are stationed in Chengdu and guarding other counties. This leaves only 50,000 troops.
If Chaoxiong is entangled in Chasheng, so that he cannot take care of the east, his troops will be directed at the strong cauldron, attack from an empty place, and sneak attack Hansheng.
If they occupy the city and defend the danger, their forces will be scattered, and it will be difficult to care for each other if they are separated from the head and the tail.
He led a large army to bloodbath the city and dispersed his elite troops to occupy the countryside. The grasshoppers had no time to defend themselves and could not protect themselves at first.
Based on Liu Su's ignorance, coupled with the fact that the border city was breached and the female family members of the officials in the court were shocked and frightened, Xingli's demise can be speculated on.
General Zhengxi thought that there was no chance to take advantage of it, and repeatedly stated his different opinions.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
帝患之，使主簿师纂为艾司马以喻之，艾乃奉命。
于是征四方之兵十八万，使邓艾自狄道攻姜维于沓中，雍州刺史诸葛绪自祁山军于武街，绝维归路，镇西将军钟会帅前将军李辅、征蜀护军胡烈等自骆谷袭汉中。
秋八月，军发洛阳，大赉将士，陈师誓众。
将军邓敦谓蜀未可讨，帝斩以徇。
九月，又使天水太守王颀攻维营，陇西太守牵弘邀其前，金城太守杨颀趣甘松。
钟会分为二队，入自斜谷，使李辅围王含于乐城，又使步将易恺攻蒋斌于汉城。
会直指阳安，护军胡烈攻陷关城。
姜维闻之，引还，王颀追败维于强川。
维与张翼、廖化合军守剑阁，钟会攻之。
冬十月，天子以诸侯献捷交至，乃申前命曰：朕以寡德，获承天序，嗣我祖宗之洪烈。
遭家多难，不明于训。
translation: 
Saitong was worried about this, so he sent the chief bookkeeper to serve as Deng Ai's Sima, so as to inform him, Shao Tomb Zai accepted the order.
So he recruited 180,000 soldiers from all over the country and sent soldiers from Qu Jin to attack Chaiwei. Zhuge Xu, the governor of Yongzhou, sent troops from Qishan to station in Wujie to cut off Jiang Wei's retreat. General Zhong Hui of Zhenxi led former general Li Fu and Hu Lie, the protector of Shu, to attack Hanzhong from Luo Valley.
In autumn and August, troops were sent out in Luoyang, officers and soldiers were rewarded greatly, and they lined up to swear an oath.
General Deng Dun suggested that the Shu Kingdom should not be conquered, and Emperor Wen killed him to show the public.
In September, Wang Qi, the prefect of Tianshui, was sent to attack Jiang Wei's camp, Qian Hong, the prefect of Longxi, was sent to block the front, and Yang Xin, the prefect of Jincheng, rushed to Gansong.
Zhong Hui divided his troops into two groups and attacked from Xiegu. He sent Li Fu to surround Wang Han in Lecheng, and sent general Yi Kai to attack Jiang Bin in Seoul.
Zhong Hui went straight to Yang'an, and the guard Hu Lie captured Guancheng.
After Jiang Wei heard about it, he led his troops to retreat. Wang Qi pursued and defeated Jiang Wei at Qiangchuan.
Jiang Weiyu, Zhang Yi and Liao Hua joined forces to guard Jiange, while Zhong Hui attacked Jiange.
In the tenth month of winter, because the princes presented their spoils of war, the emperor reiterated his previous orders and said: I am not of high virtue, so I inherited the throne and continued the great achievements of my ancestors.
When encountering difficulties in the country, we cannot carry forward the teachings of our ancestors.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
曩者奸逆屡兴，方寇内侮，大惧沦丧四海，以堕三祖之弘业。
惟公经德履哲，明允广深，迪宣武文，世作保傅，以辅乂皇家。
栉风沐雨，周旋征伐，劬劳王室，二十有余载。
毗翼前人，乃断大政，克厌不端，维安社稷。
暨俭、钦之乱，公绥援有众，分命兴师，统纪有方，用缉宁淮浦。
其后巴蜀屡侵，西土不靖，公奇画指授，制胜千里。
是以段谷之战，乘衅大捷，斩将搴旗，效首万计。
孙峻猾夏，致寇徐方，戎车首路，威灵先迈，黄钺未启，鲸鲵窜迹。
孙壹构隙，自相疑阻，幽鉴远照，奇策洞微，远人归命，作籓南夏，爰授锐卒，毕力戎行。
暨诸葛诞，滔天作逆，称兵扬楚，钦、咨逋罪，同恶相济，帅其蝥贼，以入寿春，凭阻淮山，敢距王命。
translation: 
In the past, treacherous ministers have rebelled and caused rebellion many times, and enemies from all directions have bullied our country. I am very afraid that the country will fall, thereby destroying the great cause of three generations of ancestors.
He is virtuous, behaves wisely, is knowledgeable and knowledgeable, displays martial arts and literary talents, and serves as the emperor's protector for generations, assisting the royal family.
He has been running around in the wind and rain, participating in battles and conquests, and working hard for the royal family for more than 20 years.
Assisting the predecessors, making decisions on major policies many times, stopping misbehavior and stabilizing the country.
When Guanqiu Jian and Wen Qin rebelled, the Duke pacified and rescued the people, and was ordered to raise troops. He commanded the army well, so both sides of the Huaihe River were calm and peaceful.
After that, Bashu invaded many times, and the west was uneasy. The Duke came up with ingenious plans and gave instructions, and won the victory thousands of miles away.
In the battle of Duangu, he seized the opportunity to win a complete victory, beheaded the generals and removed the flag, and killed tens of thousands of enemies.
Sun Jun disrupted the Central Plains and invaded Xu Fang. The public chariot set out with its might first. Before the yellow cymbals were opened, the enemy was already scurrying.
Sun Yi had grievances and was suspicious of himself. The Duke's profound analysis was like a mirror shining from afar, and his miraculous strategies could discern the subtleties. People from far away obeyed him, so he was awarded elite soldiers to do his best in the army.
When Zhuge Dan committed the heinous crime of rebellion and raised his troops in Yangchu, Wen Qin and Tang Zi evaded punishment and colluded with Zhuge Dan, leading the rebels into Shouchun. They boldly resisted the king's order by relying on the dangers of the Huaihe River and mountains.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
公躬擐甲胄，龚行在罚，玄谋庙算，遵养时晦。
奇兵震击，而硃异摧破；神变应机，而全琮稽服；取乱攻昧，而高墉不守。
兼九伐之弘略，究五兵之正度，用能战不穷武，而大敌歼溃；旗不再麾，而元憝授首。
收勍吴之隽臣，系亡命之逋虏。
交臂屈膝，委命下吏，俘馘十万积尸成京。
雪宗庙之滞耻，拯兆庶之艰难。
扫平区域，信威吴会，遂戢干戈，靖我疆土，天地鬼神，罔不获乂。
乃者王室之难，变起萧墙，赖公之灵，弘济艰险。
宗庙危而获安，社稷坠而复宁。
忠格皇天，功济六合。
translation: 
The father-in-law wears armor, respectfully carries out the punishment of heaven, has mysterious strategies, makes wise decisions, and obeys the laws of the sun.
Unexpected soldiers attacked fiercely, so Zhu Yi was destroyed; he used magical changes to capture the opportunity of fighting, so Quan Cong obeyed; he put down the turmoil and attacked Hunmu, and even the high wall could not hold it.
It also includes the grand strategy of the Nine Expeditions and explores the victory or defeat of the war. By being good at fighting but not bellicose, the enemy will be annihilated or dispersed; the battle flag will not need to be waved twice, and the chief culprit will lose his head.
Recruit the generals who surrendered to Wu and capture the fleeing criminals.
Some surrendered, and some obeyed the orders of Cixi's subordinates. One hundred thousand people were captured and killed, and their corpses piled up in mountains.
It wiped away the previous shame of the ancestral temple and saved the hardships of all the people.
The borders were cleared, and the prestige was extended to Wu Hui, so he put away his weapons and stabilized the territory of our country. There was no unrest among the ghosts and gods in heaven and earth.
In the past, the royal family suffered a disaster, and unexpected events occurred inside the White House. Fortunately, thanks to the Duke's spirit, the family survived the hardship.
The ancestral temple turned from danger to safety, and the country moved from defeat to peace.
The public's loyalty is as high as the emperor's, and his achievements are as high as the heaven and the earth.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
是用畴咨古训，稽诸典籍，命公崇位相国，加于群后，启土参墟，封以晋域。所以方轨齐鲁，翰屏帝室。
而公远蹈谦损，深履冲让，固辞策命，至于八九。
朕重违让德，抑礼亏制，以彰公志，于今四载。
上阙在昔建侯之典，下违兆庶具瞻之望。
惟公严虔王度，阐济大猷，敦尚纯朴，省繇节用，务穑劝分，九野康乂。
耆叟荷崇养之德，鳏寡蒙矜恤之施，仁风兴于中夏，流泽布于遐荒。
是以东夷西戎，南蛮北狄，狂狡贪悍，世为寇雠者，皆感义怀惠，款塞内附，或委命纳贡，或求置官司。
九服之外，绝域之氓，旷世所希至者，咸浮海来享，鼓舞王德，前后至者八百七十余万口。
海隅幽裔，无思不服；虽西旅远贡，越裳九译，义无以逾。
translation: 
Therefore, he searched for ancient teachings, examined classics, and appointed the duke to be the prime minister of the country. His status was higher than that of other princes. The areas that were established in ancient times were enfeoffed to the princes to compare them with each other, so as to serve as the pillars and barriers of the royal family.
However, the Duke was very humble and gave in, resolutely refusing his orders, as many as eight or nine times.
I am afraid that I have violated the virtue of humility, suppressing etiquette, bending the system, and displaying my public ambition. It has been four years since then.
On the one hand, it undermines the original code of enfeoffment, and on the other hand, it violates the ardent expectations of the people.
The Duke is solemn and respectful to the king's laws, expounds the great truth, advocates simplicity, saves the cost of corvee labor, works in agriculture and encourages farmers, and the Kyushu region is prosperous and stable.
The elderly feel the virtue of reverence and support, widowers and widowers receive mercy and compassion, the wind of benevolence and righteousness flourishes in the Central Plains, and the spread of kindness spreads to far away places.
Therefore, those who conquered the barbarians of Xirong, the barbarians of the south and Beidi, those who were violent, cunning, greedy, and fierce, and had been bandits and enemies for generations, all felt benevolence, justice, and kindness, and knocked on the door to rely on them. Some obeyed orders to pay tribute, and some asked for the establishment of government offices.
Outside the Nine Servers, people from remote areas, places rarely visited by modern people, came across the ocean to pay tribute and encourage Wang De. There were more than 8.7 million people who came before and after.
There is no one who is disobedient in the remote corners of the world; even travelers from the Western Regions pay tribute from afar, and the meaning has not gone beyond this meaning despite repeated translations.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
维翼朕躬，下匡万国，思靖殊方，宁济八极。
以庸蜀未宾，蛮荆作猾，潜谋独断，整军经武。
简练将帅，授以成策，始践贼境，应时摧陷。
狂狡奔北，首尾震溃，禽其戎帅，屠其城邑。
巴汉震叠，江源云彻，地平天成，诚在斯举。
公有济六合之勋，加以茂德，实总百揆，允厘庶政。
敦五品以崇仁，恢六典以敷训。
而靖恭夙夜，劳谦昧旦，虽尚父之左右文武，周公之勤劳王家，罔以加焉。
昔先王选建明德，光启诸侯，体国经野，方制五等。
所以籓翼王畿，垂祚百世也。
故齐鲁之封，于周为弘，山川土田，邦畿七百，官司典策，制殊群后。
translation: 
Thinking about assisting my emperor, rectifying all nations, thinking about pacifying foreign lands, and pacifying all directions.
Because Yongshu had not yet surrendered and the barbarians were still causing chaos, the public devoted himself to planning, making decisions on his own, reorganizing the army, and managing armaments.
Choose to train the generals, teach them the strategies that have been planned, and then start to enter the realm of thieves and bandits, follow the weather, and destroy and capture them.
The furious enemies fled north, their heads and tail disintegrated in terror, their leaders were captured, and their cities were washed with blood.
Bahan was frightened, the dark clouds at the source of the Yangtze River disappeared, and everything was arranged properly, all in this move.
The merits of the public rescuers from all over the world, coupled with virtue, can indeed lead hundreds of officials to manage various government affairs.
The public attaches great importance to the five constant principles to promote benevolence and righteousness, and enlarges the six classics to illustrate the ancient teachings.
Respectful day and night, hardworking and humble in the morning and evening, even if Shang's father assisted King Wen and King Wu, and Duke Zhou worked diligently in the royal family, he could not surpass the Duke.
In the past, the former kings selected virtues, promoted the princes, divided the capital, measured the fields, and divided the square and circle system into five grades.
This enfeoffed territory was used as a barrier and a wing, so that Fu Zuo could be passed down for centuries.
Therefore, Qilu's fiefdom was the largest in the Zhou Dynasty, with mountains, rivers and wilderness, and the capital covered an area of ​​700 miles. The institutions, regulations, and systems were different from those of other princes.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
惠襄之难，桓文以翼戴之劳，犹受锡命之礼，咸用光畴大德，作范于后。
惟公功迈于前烈，而赏阙于旧式，百辟于邑，人神同恨焉，岂可以公谦冲而久淹弘典哉？
今以并州之太原上党西河乐平新兴雁门、司州之河东平阳弘农、雍州之冯翊凡十郡，南至于华，北至于陉，东至于壶口，西逾于河，提封之数，方七百里，皆晋之故壤，唐叔受之，世作盟主，实纪纲诸夏，用率旧职。
爰胙兹土，封公为晋公。
命使持节、兼司徒、司隶校尉陔即授印绶策书，金兽符第一至第五，竹使符第一至第十。
锡兹玄土，苴以白茅，建尔国家，以永籓魏室。
昔在周召，并以公侯，入作保傅。
其在近代，酂侯萧何，实以相国，光尹汉朝。
随时之制，礼亦宜之。
今进公位为相国，加绿綟绶。
又加公九锡，其敬听后命。
translation: 
When King Hui and King Xiang died, Duke Huan and Duke Wen received the courtesy of Jiuxi Ceming for his role in protecting and supporting him, all in order to promote great virtue and set an example for future generations.
The merits of the duke surpassed those of the previous dynasties, but the rewards were not in accordance with the old rules. He declined the title of fief many times, and even felt regretful. How could the duke be so humble that he violated the rules for a long time?
Today, there are ten counties in Taiyuan, including Shangdang, Xihe, Leping, Xinxing, and Yanmen in Bingzhou, Hedong, Pingyang, and Hongnong in Sizhou, and Fengyi in Yongzhou. They extend to Hua in the south, Xing in the north, Shu to Hu, and the Yellow River in the west, with a total radius of 700 miles. They are all the land of the Jin State. Uncle Tang accepted the land. He has been the leader of the alliance for generations and actually manages the Central Plains to follow his past responsibilities.
Therefore, a piece of land was given to the Duke and he was granted the title of Duke of Jin.
The order envoy Chijie, concurrently Situ, and Sili Xiaowei Yi were awarded official seals and policies, with the gold animal talisman ranked first to fifth, and the bamboo envoy talisman ranked first to tenth.
Give Gongxuan soil, wrap it with white grass, and establish your feudal state, thus forever serving as a barrier for the Wei royal family.
In the past, when Qie Gongchou was the Duke, he always entered the court as a protector as a prince.
In modern times, Xiao He, the humble prince, assisted in governing the Han Dynasty as the prime minister.
This is a system that follows the weather and is also appropriate in terms of etiquette and law.
Today, the Duke's official position is promoted to Prime Minister, and a green ribbon is added.
He also added Gong Jiuxi to listen to his orders.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
以公思弘大猷，崇正典礼，仪刑作范，旁训四方，是用锡公大辂、戎辂各一，玄牡二驷。
公道和阴阳，敬授人时，啬夫反本，农殖维丰，是用锡公衮冕之服，赤舄副焉。
公光敷显德，惠下以和，敬信思顺，庶尹允谐，是用锡公轩悬之乐、六佾之舞。
公镇靖宇宙，翼播声教，海外怀服，荒裔款附，殊方驰义，诸夏顺轨，是用锡公硃户以居。
公简贤料材，营求俊逸，爰升多士，置彼周行，是用锡公纳陛以登。
公严恭寅畏，底平四国，式遏寇虐，苛厉不作，是用锡公武贲之士三百人。
公明慎用刑，简恤大中，章厥天威，以纠不虔，是用锡公鈇钺各一。
公爰整六军，典司征伐，犯命凌正，乃维诛殛，是用锡公彤弓一、彤矢百，卢弓十、卢矢千。
translation: 
Because the public thought about promoting the great road, respected the laws and regulations, followed the laws, set an example, and became a role model in the world, he was given a chariot and eight stallions each for Dage and Rongji.
The Duke's conduct conforms to the heaven and the earth, he respects the destiny given by Heaven, farmers return to their fields, and agriculture and breeding are prosperous. Therefore, the Duke is given the crown robe and red sandals.
The public spreads outstanding virtues, uses humility to benefit subordinates, respects integrity, considers loyalty and obedience, and makes officials and people harmonious and faithful. Therefore, the public is given the joy of Xuanxuan and the dance of Liuyi.
The public town calms and stabilizes the universe, the auxiliary wings spread the prestige and enlightenment, the overseas people return to obey, the distant people sincerely rely on it, the foreign land admires the righteousness, and the princes obey, so the public red painted door is given to the residence.
The duke chose to measure the talents, search for capable men, and promoted many people to the ranks of officials in our dynasty. Therefore, he was given the honor to accept his Majesty and ascend to the palace.
The Duke was solemn, respectful and reverent, and had pacified the four kingdoms, curbed the tyranny of the enemy invaders, and prevented the rise of harsh cruelty. Therefore, he was given three hundred brave warriors.
The public punishment is clear and prudent, fair and not excessive, demonstrates the power of heaven, and kills rebels. Therefore, the public is given one of the horses and the iron.
The duke rectified the six armies, presided over the expedition, and those who violated the destiny and went beyond the right path were killed. Therefore, he was given a red bow, a hundred red arrows, ten brigade bows, and a thousand shaft arrows.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
公飨祀蒸蒸，孝思维则，笃诚之至，通于神明，是用锡公秬鬯一卣，圭瓚副焉。
晋国置官司以下，率由旧式。
往钦哉！祗服朕命，弘敷训典，光泽庶方，永终尔明德，丕显余一人之休命。
公卿将校皆诣府喻旨，帝以礼辞让。
司空郑冲率群官劝进曰： 伏见嘉命显至，窃闻明公固让，冲等眷眷，实有愚心。
以为圣王作制，百代同风，褒德赏功，有自来矣。
昔伊尹，有莘氏之媵臣耳，一佐成汤，遂荷阿衡之号。
周公藉已成之势，据既安之业，光宅曲阜，奄有龟蒙。
吕尚，磻溪之渔者也，一朝指麾，乃封营丘。
自是以来，功薄而赏厚者，不可胜数，然贤哲之士，犹以为美谈。
况自先相国以来，世有明德，翼辅魏室，以绥天下，朝无秕政，人无谤言。
前者明公西征灵州，北临沙漠，榆中以西，望风震服，羌戎来驰，回首内向，东诛叛逆，全军独克。
禽阖闾之将，虏轻锐之卒以万万计，威加南海，名慑三越，宇内康宁，苛慝不作。
是以时俗畏怀，东夷献舞。
故圣上览乃昔以来礼典旧章，开国光宅，显兹太原。
明公宜承奉圣旨，受兹介福，允当天人。
元功盛勋，光光如彼；国土嘉祚，巍巍如此。
内外协同，靡愆靡违。
translation: 
Gong is respectful to his ancestors, his filial piety can serve as an example, he is extremely sincere and sincere, and the gods know it, so he bestows the Gong's cabinet with a 鬯卣 and a Guizan.
The establishment of the Jin government was all based on the previous system. How admirable!
You should obey my orders respectfully, carry forward the ancient teachings and regulations, let the light shine in all directions, continue your virtue forever, and display my beautiful orders.
The ministers, generals and schools went to Emperor Wen's house to announce the decree, and Emperor Wen politely declined.
Sikong Zheng Chong led all the officials to advise Emperor Wen: "Seeing the good order coming prominently, hearing Ming Gong's firm resignation, Zheng Chong and others admired him, he is really sincere."
We believe that the system established by the sage kings has been the same for hundreds of generations, praising virtue and rewarding merit. This has its origins.
In the past, Yi Yin was a domestic slave of the Xin family. Once Sasuke made soup, he had the title of A Heng.
Relying on the established national power and the already stable foundation, Duke Zhou built his glorious mansion in Qufu and covered Guimeng.
Lu Shang was a fisherman from Pixi River. As soon as he waved his flag, he sealed the land in Yingqiu.
Since then, the situation of meager achievements and generous rewards has been unbearable. However, sages still regard this as a good talk.
Moreover, since he was the Prime Minister of the previous dynasty, he has been virtuous from generation to generation, assisting the Wei royal family and bringing peace to the world. There is no malpractice in the government and no complaints from people.
In the past, Ming Gong conquered Lingzhou in the west, bordering the desert to the north and west of Yuzhong. When he heard the news, he was frightened and obeyed.
He captured the generals of Hejian and captured tens of thousands of elite soldiers. His majesty covered the South China Sea, and his reputation shocked Mitsukoshi. The world was healthy and peaceful, and evil spirits were suppressed.
Therefore, the customs of the time were awe-inspiring, and the barbarians presented dance and music.
So the Holy Master read the old rituals from ancient times and built a glorious mansion for the public feudal state, which was prominent in Taiyuan.
Ming Gong should obey the imperial edict and accept this great blessing so that the relationship between heaven and man can be harmonious.
The first meritorious service is as glorious as that; the land's blessings are as grand as this.
Rewards are consistent with merit, and there is no excess or violation.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
由斯征伐，则可朝服济江，扫除吴会，西塞江源，望祀岷山。
回戈弭节，以麾天下，远无不服，迩无不肃。
令大魏之德，光于唐虞；明公盛勋，超于桓文。
然后临沧海而谢支伯，登箕山而揖许由，岂不盛乎！
至公至平，谁与为邻，何必勤勤小让也哉。
帝乃受命。
十一月，邓艾帅万余人自阴平逾绝险至江由，破蜀将诸葛瞻于绵竹，斩瞻，传首。
进军雒县，刘禅降。
天子命晋公以相国总百揆，于是上节传，去侍中、大都督、录尚书之号焉。
表邓艾为太尉，钟会为司徒。
会潜谋叛逆，因密使谮艾。
咸熙元年春正月，槛车征艾。
乙丑，帝奉天子西征，次于长安。
是时魏诸王侯悉在鄴城，命从事中郎山涛行军司事，镇于鄴，遣护军贾充持节、督诸军，据汉中。
钟会遂反于蜀，监军卫瓘、右将军胡烈攻会，斩之。
初，会之伐蜀也，西曹属邵悌言于帝曰： 钟会难信，不可令行。
帝笑曰： 取蜀如指掌，而众人皆言不可，唯会与吾意同。
灭蜀之后，中国将士，人自思归，蜀之遗黎，犹怀震恐，纵有异志，无能为也。
卒如所量。
丙辰，帝至自长安。
translation: 
From then on, in the expedition, we could cross the Yangtze River in court clothes, sweep away Wu Hui, and use the source of the Yangtze River as a frontier to the west to offer sacrifices to Minshan Mountain in the distance.
Return to the army and gather your troops to command the world. There will be no one who is disobedient in the distance and no one who is not in order nearby.
Let the virtues of the Wei Dynasty shine in the Jin Dynasty; the Ming Gong's greatest achievements surpass those of Qi Huan and Jin Wen.
Facing the sea to express gratitude to Wen Bo, and climbing Jishan Mountain to salute Xu You, isn't it a grand event?
It's very fair. Who can compare with me, so why should I be humble?
Only then did Emperor Wen accept the emperor's gift.
In November, Deng Ai led more than 10,000 people from Yinping to Jiangyou, where he defeated Shu general Zhuge Zhan in Mianzhu, killed Zhuge Zhan, and had his head revealed to the public.
Marching into Luoxian County, Liu Chan surrendered.
The emperor ordered the Duke of Jin to take charge of everything as the prime minister, so Emperor Wen sent a decree to remove himself from the titles of Shizhong, Grand Governor, and Lu Shangshu.
Please appoint Deng Ai as Taiwei and Zhong Hui as Situ.
Zhong Hui conspired to rebel, so he secretly sent people to speak ill of Deng Ai.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Xianxi, a chariot was sent to arrest Deng Ai.
In Yichou, Emperor Wen and the Emperor marched westward and were stationed in Chang'an.
At that time, all the princes were in Yecheng. They ordered Zhonglang to be the military officer of Shantao March and guard in Ye. He sent the guard Jia Chongzhijie to supervise the troops and guard Hanzhong.
Zhong Hui then rebelled in Shu. The supervisor Wei Gan and the right general Hu Lie attacked Zhong Hui and killed him.
At the beginning, when Zhong Hui was attacking Shu, Shao Ti, a subordinate of Xicao, told Emperor Wen: Zhong Hui is difficult to trust and cannot be ordered to send troops.
Emperor Wen smiled and said: "We are in control of conquering Shu, but everyone says no, only Zhong Hui agrees with me."
After the reduction of Shu, the soldiers in the Central Plains missed their homeland. The people left behind in Shu were still shocked and fearful. Even if they had the intention to rebel, they were powerless.
The result was just as Emperor Wen had predicted.
In Bingchen, Emperor Wen returned from Chang'an.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
三月己卯，进帝爵为王，增封并前二十郡。
夏五月癸未，天子追加舞阳宣文侯为晋宣王，舞阳忠武侯为晋景王。
秋七月，帝奏司空荀顗定礼仪，中护军贾充正法律，尚书仆射裴秀议官制，太保郑冲总而裁焉。
始建五等爵。
冬十月丁亥，奏遣吴人相国参军徐劭、散骑常侍水曹属孙彧使吴，喻孙皓以平蜀之事，致马锦等物，以示威怀。
丙午，天子命中抚军新昌乡侯炎为晋世子。
二年春二月甲辰，朐县献灵龟，归于相府。
夏四月，孙皓使纪陟来聘，且献方物。
五月，天子命帝冕十有二旒，建天子旌旗，出警入跸，乘金根车，驾六马，备五时副车，置旄头云罕，乐舞八佾，设钟虡宫悬，位在燕王上。
进王妃为王后，世子为太子，王女王孙爵命之号皆如帝者之仪。
诸禁网烦苛及法式不便于时者，帝皆奏除之。
晋国置御史大夫、侍中、常侍、尚书、中领军、卫将军官。
秋八月辛卯，帝崩于露寝，时年五十五。
九月癸酉，葬崇阳陵，谥曰文王。
武帝受禅，追尊号曰文皇帝，庙称太祖。
translation: 
On Jimao in the third month, Emperor Wen was promoted to the title of king, and the fiefdoms were added together with the previous twenty counties.
At the end of the fifth month of summer, the emperor ascended to the throne of Wuyang Xuanwenhou as King Xuan of Jin, and Wuyang Zhongwuhou became King of Jinjing.
In the seventh month of autumn, Emperor Wen asked Sikong Xunjie to formulate etiquette, Jia Chong, the Central Protector of the Army, to amend the law, Shangshu Pushe Pei Xiu to agree on the official system, and Chief Taibao Zheng Chong to make a ruling.
The establishment of fifth-class titles began.
In the tenth month of winter, on Dinghai, I requested you to send Xu Shao, the prime minister of Wu, to join the army, and Cao Sun, the general attendant of Sanqi, to serve as an envoy to the state of Wu. They would inform Sun Hao of the pacification of Shu and present horses, brocades and other items as a demonstration of severity and appeasement.
On Bingwu, the emperor appointed Sima Yan, the Marquis of Xinchang Township, Fujun, as the crown prince of the Jin Dynasty.
On the first day of the second spring of the second year, Quji County presented a spirit turtle to the Prime Minister's Mansion.
In the fourth month of summer, Sun Hao sent Ji Zhi to hire him and give him local specialties.
In May, the emperor ordered Emperor Wen's crown to be decorated with twelve stars, established the emperor's banner, and established the etiquette of the police when entering and exiting. He rode a gold-rooted chariot, drove six horses, spared five o'clock auxiliary chariots, set up Yunhan for machetes, eight hundred for music and dance, and four columns for orchestra chimes. His status was higher than that of King Yan.
The princess is regarded as the queen, the prince is regarded as the prince, and the titles of the prince, queen, and grandson are all the same as the emperor's etiquette.
Emperor Wen of the People's Republic of China petitioned Emperor Wen to request exemption from the cumbersome and detailed rules of the imperial palace and the regulations that were inconvenient to implement.
The Jin State established the official positions of Yushi Dafu, Shi Zhong, Chang Shi, Shangshu, Zhong Lingjun, and General Wei.
In the eighth month of autumn and Xinmao, Emperor Wen died in the main hall at the age of fifty-five.
In September Guiyou, he was buried in Chongyang Mausoleum and was named King Wen.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and added the title of Emperor Wen, and the temple was called Taizu.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
史臣曰：世宗以睿略创基，太祖以雄才成务。
事殷之迹空存，翦商之志弥远，三分天下，功业在焉。
及逾剑销氛，浮淮静乱，桐宫胥怨，或所不堪。
若乃体以名臣，格之端揆，周公流连于此岁，魏武得意于兹日。
轩悬之乐，大启南阳，师挚之图，于焉北面。
壮矣哉，包举天人者也！
为帝之主，不亦难乎。
赞曰：世宗继文，邦权未分。
三千之士，其从如云。
世祖无外，灵关静氛。
反虽讨贼，终为弑君。
translation: 
Shi Chen said: Shizong established his foundation with strategies, and Taizu accomplished things with his talents.
Following the traces of the Yin Dynasty, their ambition to destroy the Shang Dynasty goes further, and dividing the world into three parts is their achievement.
When it comes to crossing the sword to eliminate the danger of war, crossing the Huaihe River to quell the war, and the resentment between the emperor and ministers of Tonggong, some people cannot bear it.
If famous ministers could be tolerated and the Shangshu Province could recruit them, then the Duke of Zhou would be nostalgic for this era, and the Wuhui of Wei would be proud of this period.
Use Xuanxuan's band to develop Nanyang, learn from Zhi's group, and claim vassal status in the north.
How great is a person who can embrace God’s will and human affairs!
Isn't it difficult to be a prince under an emperor?
Praise: Shizong succeeded Emperor Xuan, and the country's political power has not yet been divided.
Three thousand celebrities followed him.
Taizu's power was extremely powerful for a while, and Lingguan was pacified.
Although he took action against the bandits, he was ultimately charged with regicide.


