Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 12, 12]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
《易》曰： 有天地然后有万物，有万物然后有男女，有男女然后有夫妇。
夫妇之义尚矣哉！周礼，王者立后六宫，三夫人、九嫔、二十七世妇、八十一御妻，以听天下之内治。
故《昏义》云： 天子之与后，犹日之与月，阴之与阳，相须而成者也。
汉初因秦称号，帝母称皇太后，后称皇后，而加以美人、良人、八子、七子之属。
至孝武制婕妤之徒凡十四等。
降及魏、晋，母后之号，皆因汉法；自夫人以下，世有增损焉。
高祖拨乱反正，深鉴奢逸，恶衣菲食，务先节俭。
配德早终，长秋旷位，嫔嫱之数，无所改作。
太祖献皇后张氏，讳尚柔，范阳方城人也。
祖次惠，宋濮阳太守。
translation: 
"Yi" says: After heaven and earth, there are all things; after all things, there are men and women; after men and women, there are couples.
Morality between husband and wife is supreme. The Zhou etiquette system is that the emperor establishes concubines, including three wives, nine concubines, twenty-seven wives, and eighty-one royal wives, to decide the issue of women's education in the world.
Therefore, "Huanyi" says: The emperor and the emperor are like the sun and the moon. Yin and Yang complement each other.
In the early Yi Dynasty, the titles of Qin were followed. The emperor's mother was called the empress dowager, the emperor's wife was called the empress, and the remaining women were given titles such as beauty, beloved, eighth son, and seventh son.
When I arrived at the ridge stem, I was sure that there would be a total of fourteen titles such as Jieyu.
Since the Wei and Zhi dynasties, the titles of the queen mothers have followed the rules of the Mo Dynasty; from the wife down, the titles have increased or decreased in each generation.
When Emperor Gaozu brought order to the troubled times and restored normalcy, he drew lessons from the precedent of extravagance and excess that led to the country's subjugation. He ate poor food and wore simple clothes, and was frugal in everything he did.
His first wife died early, the position of queen has always been vacant, and the number of concubines has not changed much.
Taizong and Shidan came from the heirs of the emperor who was enfeoffed outside the country, and the concubines had all died before, and they did not build boudoirs for the concubines to increase their number. The few who are writing the records now are just as backup.
Yue's quiet title has a bad name and a person who traces his marriage. Grandfather pounded it, and the salt magistrate was selected for the fortress.

summary:
summary line 0: It describes the Zhou etiquette system, where the emperor maintained a hierarchy of concubines—three wives, nine concubines, twenty-seven wives, and eighty-one royal wives—to govern women's education. The "Huanyi" compares the emperor and empress to the sun and moon, complementing each other like yin and yang. During the early Yi Dynasty, Qin titles were adopted, with the emperor's mother called empress dowager and his wife called empress, while other women received titles like beauty, beloved, eighth son, and seventh son. By the time of the ridge stem, there were fourteen titles including Jieyu. From the Wei and Zhi dynasties onward, queen mother titles followed Mo Dynasty rules, while wife titles varied by generation.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
后母萧氏，即文帝从姑。
后，宋元嘉中嫔于文帝，生长沙宣武王懿、永阳昭王敷，次生高祖。
初，后尝于室内，忽见庭前昌蒲生花，光彩照灼，非世中所有。
后惊视，谓侍者曰： 汝见不？
对曰： 不见。
后曰： 尝闻见者当富贵。
因遽取吞之。
是月产高祖。
将产之夜，后见庭内若有衣冠陪列焉。
次生衡阳宣王畅、义兴昭长公主令。
宋泰始七年，殂于秣陵县同夏里舍，葬武进县东城里山。
天监元年五月甲辰，追上尊号为皇后。谥曰献。
父穆之，字思静，晋司空华六世孙。
曾祖舆坐华诛，徙兴古，未至召还。
及过江，为丞相掾，太子舍人。
穆之少方雅，有识鉴。
宋元嘉中，为员外散骑侍郎。
translation: 
The queen's biological mother, Mrs. Xiao, was Saitong's cousin.
The queen became Saitong's concubine during Sai Chengtai's reign, and gave birth to King Lu Deng of Xuanwu in Changsha, Lu Ti of King Zhao of Yongyang, and then Zhidan.
At the beginning, the queen was in the house when she suddenly saw the flowers growing in Changpu in front of the hall. They were shining with a brilliance that was not found in this world.
The queen looked at it in surprise and said to the waiter: Have you seen it?
He replied: I haven’t seen it.
The queen said: I have heard that anyone who can see will gain wealth.
So he hurriedly picked it up and swallowed it.
Gaozu was born this month.
On the night when she was about to give birth, the queen saw that there were many people with clothes lined up in the hall.
Next, they gave birth to Xiao Chang, King Xuan of Hengyang, and his daughter-in-law, the chief official of Zhan Xingzhao.
In the seventh year of Taishi's reign in the Song Dynasty, he died in Tongxiali's residence in Moling County and was buried in Dongcheng Mountain in Wujin County.
On the first day of the first year of Tianjian, on the first day of the fourth month, Jiachen said, the additional honorific title was Queen, and the title of Mi was presented.
His father, Mu Zhi, also named Sijing, was the sixth-generation grandson of Zhang Hua, Sikong of Jin Dynasty.
Great-grandfather Zhang Yu was punished because of Zhang Hua's involvement. He was transferred to Xingzhi, but was recalled before he got there.
After crossing the river in the south, he was appointed as the prime minister and the prince gave up his family.
When Mu Zhi was young, he was upright, elegant and knowledgeable.
During the Song, Yuan and Jia years, he served as a member of the Communist Party of China.

summary:
summary line 1: Emperor Gaozu, learning from past extravagance that led to ruin, practiced frugality, ate simple food, and wore plain clothes. His first wife died early, leaving the queen position vacant, and concubine numbers remained stable. Taizong and Shidan, heirs from outside the country, had concubines who died before them, so no new boudoirs were built. The text then details the lineage of a queen, whose grandfather was a salt magistrate. Her mother, Mrs. Xiao, was Saitong's cousin. The queen became Saitong's concubine during Sai Chengtai's reign, bearing King Lu Deng of Xuanwu in Changsha, Lu Ti of King Zhao of Yongyang, and Zhidan. Early in her household, she saw Changpu flowers glowing in the hall, swallowed them, and conceived Gaozu. Before giving birth, she saw many people in the hall. She later gave birth to Xiao Chang, King Xuan of Hengyang, and a daughter. She died in the seventh year of Taishi in the Song Dynasty and was buried in Dongcheng Mountain. In the first year of Tianjian, she was posthumously honored as queen with the title Mi.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
与吏部尚书江湛、太子左率袁淑善，淑荐之于始兴王浚，浚深引纳焉。
穆之鉴其祸萌，思违其难，言于湛求外出。
湛将用为东县，固乞远郡，久之，得为宁远将军、交址太守。
治有异绩。
会刺史死，交土大乱，穆之威怀循拊，境内以宁。
宋文帝闻之嘉焉，将以为交州刺史，会病卒。
子弘籍，字真艺，齐初为镇西参军，卒于官。
高祖践阼，追赠穆之光禄大夫，加金章。
又诏曰： 亡舅齐镇西参军，素风雅猷，夙肩名辈，降年不永，早世潜辉。
朕少离苦辛，情地弥切，虽宅相克成，辂车靡赠，兴言永往，触目恸心。
可追赠廷尉卿。
弘籍无子，从父弟弘策以第三子缵为嗣，别有传。
高祖德皇后郗氏，讳徽，高平金乡人也。
祖绍，国子祭酒，领东海王师。
父烨，太子舍人，早卒。
translation: 
He had a good relationship with Jiang Zhan, the official minister, and Yuan Shu, the prince Zuo. Yuan Shu recommended him to Zhao Xing Wang Sutong, and he was deeply accepted by the media.
Chuiwa realized that a disaster would happen to him, and wanted to avoid the disaster, so he asked Jiang Zhan to go out to work.
Jiang Zhan was about to appoint him to Shuxian, but he insisted on requesting to go to Yuanjun. After a long time, he was appointed as General Ningyuan and Governor of Jiaosha.
He has extraordinary achievements in governing local areas.
Later, when the governor died and the territory was in chaos, Chuiwa calmed down with dignity, and the territory was peaceful.
After Emperor Severn heard about this, he praised him and was about to appoint him as the governor of Manye. He died of illness just before he was sent.
His son Hongji, whose courtesy name was Zhenyi, was appointed as Zhenxi and joined the army. He died in office.
Gaozu became the emperor, and he posthumously gave Mu his official title of Guanglu Doctor and a gold medal.
He also issued an edict saying: The late uncle Qi Zhenxi joined the army. His moral character was pure and elegant. He was a noble and famous person in his early years. However, he did not live long after he was born. His early death concealed his glory.
When I was young, I encountered hardships and severe circumstances. Although I said that my nephew could achieve great status, I did not give him a chariot used by the emperor. Now that I am talking about the person who is gone forever, it is really emotional and sad to see him.
He can be posthumously given the title of Ting Wei Qing.
Hongzhan had no sons, so his uncle and younger brother Hongce made his third son Zhang Lan his heir. There is another legend.
Empress Xiao Yan, Emperor Wu of Liang Dynasty, was named Hui and was a native of Jinxiang, Gaoping.
His grandfather, Xi Shao, served as the son of the emperor and served as the teacher of King Shu Hai.
His father, Xi Ye, was appointed as the crown prince and died early.

summary:
summary line 2: Her father, Mu Zhi, was a sixth-generation grandson of Zhang Hua, a Jin Dynasty Sikong. After Zhang Hua's punishment, Mu Zhi's great-grandfather was transferred but recalled. Mu Zhi served as a member of the Communist Party of China during the Song, Yuan, and Jia years, befriending Jiang Zhan and Yuan Shu. Foreseeing disaster, he sought an outside post, becoming General Ningyuan and Governor of Jiaosha, where he governed well. After the governor's death, he calmed the territory. Emperor Severn praised him but he died before being appointed governor of Manye. His son Hongji died in office. Gaozu posthumously gave Mu Zhi the title of Guanglu Doctor and a gold medal, later adding Ting Wei Qing. Hongzhan had no sons, so his nephew Hongce's son Zhang Lan became his heir.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
初，后母寻阳公主方娠，梦当生贵子。
及生后，有赤光照于室内，器物尽明，家人皆怪之。
巫言此女光采异常，将有所妨，乃于水滨祓除之。
后幼而明慧，善隶书，读史传。
女工之事，无不闲习。
宋后废帝将纳为后；齐初，安陆王缅又欲婚：郗氏并辞以女疾，乃止。
建元未，高祖始娉焉。
生永兴公主玉姚，永世公主玉婉，永康公主玉嬛。
建武五年，高祖为雍州刺史，先之镇，后乃迎后。
至州未几，永元元年八月殂于襄阳官舍，时年三十二。
其年归葬南徐州南东海武进县东城里山。
中兴二年，齐朝进高祖位相国，封十郡，梁公，诏赠后为梁公妃。
高祖践阼，追崇为皇后。
translation: 
At first, the queen's mother, Princess Xunyang, had just become pregnant, and her dream indicated that she should have a son.
When the queen was born, a red light shone in the room and all the utensils were illuminated. The family members thought this was strange.
The wizard said that the daughter's brilliance was abnormal and would be a harm to the family, so he held an exorcism ceremony for her by the water to remove the evil stains.
The queen was smart when she was young, good at official script, and liked reading histories and biographies.
There is no one who is not proficient in spinning, embroidery, sewing and other things that are popular among women.
After the Song Dynasty, the deposed emperor was about to marry her as his queen; at the beginning of the Qi Dynasty, Anlu King Xiao Mian wanted to marry her again. Xi refused them all on the pretext of women's diseases, and then stopped.
At the end of Jianyuan, Gaozu was able to get engaged to her.
They gave birth to Princess Yuyao of Yongxing, Princess Yuwan of Yongshi, and Princess Yuzhi of Yongkang.
In the first year of Chengtai's reign, he served as the governor of Zong Maggot. He arrived at the town first and then went to greet the queen.
Not long after arriving in the state, he died in his official residence in Xiangyang in August of the first year of Yongyuan at the age of thirty-two.
This year he was buried in Dongchengshan Mountain, Wujin County, Nanshuhai, South Xuzhou.
In the second year of the Zhongxing Dynasty, the Qi Dynasty elevated the ancestral position to the title of Prime Minister, granted ten counties and Liang Gong titles, and issued an edict to grant the queen the title of Liang Gong Concubine.
When Gaozu became emperor, he added the title of queen to her.

summary:
summary line 3: Empress Xiao Yan, Emperor Wu of Liang, was from Jinxiang, Gaoping. Her grandfather Xi Shao was a teacher to King Shu Hai, and her father Xi Ye was a crown prince who died early. Her mother, Princess Xunyang, dreamed of having a son before her birth. At birth, a red light shone, alarming the family. A wizard performed an exorcism. The queen was intelligent, skilled in calligraphy, and loved history. She refused marriage proposals from the Song deposed emperor and Anlu King Xiao Mian. At the end of Jianyuan, Gaozu became engaged to her. They had three daughters. In the first year of Chengtai, she served as governor of Zong Maggot, then died in Xiangyang in the first year of Yongyuan at age thirty-two. She was buried in Dongchengshan. In the second year of Zhongxing, she was granted the title of Liang Gong Concubine, and later queen. Her posthumous title was Empress De, and her tomb was Xiuling. Her father Xi Ye was posthumously named Doctor Jin Ziguanglu.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
有司议谥，吏部尚书兼右仆射臣约议曰： 表号垂名，义昭不朽。
先皇后应祥月德，比载坤灵，柔范阴化，仪形自远。
伣天作合，义先造舟，而神猷夙掩，所隔升运。宜式遵景行，用昭大典。
谨按《谥法》，忠和纯备曰德，贵而好礼曰德。
宜崇曰德皇后。
诏从之。
陵曰修陵。
后父烨，诏赠金紫光禄大夫。
烨尚宋文帝女寻阳公主，齐初降封松滋县君。
烨子泛，中军临川王记室参军。
太宗简皇后王氏，讳灵宾，琅邪临沂人也。
祖俭，太尉、南昌文宪公。
后幼而柔明淑德，叔父暕见之曰： 吾家女师也。
天监十一年，拜晋安王妃。
生哀太子大器，南郡王大连，长山公主妙纮。
中大通三年十月，拜皇太子妃。
translation: 
When a minister decided on her title of Mi, Shen Mian, the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel and Minister of Right Pushe, suggested: "It means that the title of Mi will be preserved in honor, and the purpose is to make it immortal forever."
The former empress responded to the peace of the Jade Rabbit and was filled with the aura of the earth. She had a feminine demeanor to set an example, and her appearance and posture were naturally deep.
A match made in heaven, righteousness first builds a bridge, but the divine way has been covered up early, and the good fortune of ascension is blocked. Her noble virtues should be followed to show the grand ceremony of the country.
Here we respectfully follow the "Mi Law" to determine that being loyal and pure is called virtue, and being noble and good at etiquette is called virtue.
She should be titled Empress De.
The emperor Shao ordered to obey.
Her tomb is called Xiuling.
The queen's father, Xi Ye, was posthumously named Doctor Jin Ziguanglu by imperial edict.
Zhengluan married Princess Xunyang, the daughter of Emperor Wen of the Song Dynasty, and was demoted to the title of Lord of Songzi County in the early days of Manchu.
Zheng Yan's son, Su Fan, joined the army as a reporter in Linchuan, the Chinese army.
Taizong's Queen Jian, named Wang, was named Lingbin and was from Linyi, Langxie.
His grandfather, Wang Jian, was a Taiwei and Duke Wenxian of Nanchang.
The queen was gentle, wise and virtuous when she was young. After meeting her, her uncle Wang Wei said: "She is a role model for women in our family."
In the eleventh year of Tianjian, she became Princess Jin'an.
They gave birth to Prince Ai, Prince Zuolian of Nanjun, and Princess Chengshan of Changshan.
In October of the third year of Zhongdatong, she was established as the Crown Princess.

summary:
summary line 4: Taizong's Queen Jian, named Wang, was from Linyi, Langxie. Her grandfather Wang Jian was a Taiwei and Duke Wenxian. She was gentle and wise, becoming Princess Jin'an in the eleventh year of Tianjian. She bore Prince Ai, Prince Zuolian of Nanjun, and Princess Chengshan. She became crown princess in the third year of Zhongdatong and died in the third year of Li Zha at age forty-five. Taizong posthumously titled her empress with Mi Jian, and she was buried in Zhuangling. An imperial decree mandated frugality for her funeral, citing historical precedents. Her father Wang Qian, originally named Si Ji, changed his name to avoid conflict with Emperor Qi Gao. He served as a foreign minister, Prince Xima, and prefect of Yixing, later becoming a hussar councilor and Huangmenlang. He was calm and did not seek advancement. At the end of Yongyuan, he refused promotion to Shizhong. Under Gaozu, he served as Grand Sima consultant and later Shizhong. After the abdication, he was granted the title of Marquis of Nanchang County. He died in the third year of his life at age forty-nine, posthumously granted Shizhong and Jin Ziguanglu Doctor.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
在郡卧疾不视事。
征还，复为度支尚书，加给事中，领射声校尉。
以母忧去职。
普通三年十月卒，时年四十九。
诏赠侍中、金紫光禄大夫，谥曰安。
子规袭爵，别有传。
高祖丁贵嫔，讳令光，谯国人也，世居襄阳。
贵嫔生于樊城，有神光之异，紫烟满室，故以 光 为名。
相者云： 此女当大贵。
高祖临州，丁氏因人以闻。
贵嫔时年十四，高祖纳焉。
初，贵嫔生而有赤痣在左臂，治之不灭，至是无何忽失所在。
事德皇后小心祗敬，尝于供养经案之侧，仿佛若见神人，心独异之。
高祖义师起，昭明太子始诞育，贵嫔与太子留在州城。
京邑平，乃还京都。
translation: 
In the county, he was ill and did not work.
Later, he was recalled to the imperial court and re-appointed as the minister of the branch. He was given the title of Shizhong and served as the captain of Shesheng school.
He later resigned due to the death of his mother.
He died in October of the third year of his life at the age of forty-nine.
An imperial edict was issued and he was posthumously granted the title of Shizhong and Jin Ziguanglu Doctor, with the title of An.
His son Wang Gui inherited the ancestral title, and there are other legends.
Emperor Gaozu's concubine Ding, whose name was Lingguang, was from Qiao State and had lived in Xiangyang for generations.
Your concubine was born in Fancheng. When she was born, there was a strange divine light and the house was filled with purple smoke, so she was named after "Light".
The fortune teller said: This daughter will be rich.
When Gaozu came to her state, Ding introduced her to Gaozu through others.
The noble concubine was only fourteen years old at the time, so Gaozu married her.
When your concubine was born, she had a red mole on her left arm, which was treated but not removed. When she was sent away, it suddenly disappeared for no apparent reason.
She served Empress De carefully and respectfully. Once, she seemed to see gods and figures beside the tables enshrining sacred and Buddhist scriptures. She felt strange in her heart.
After the rise of Emperor Gaozu's rebel army, Crown Prince Zhaoming was born during the period of the Han Dynasty, and both the noble concubines and the prince stayed in the state city.
京都地区平定后，才回到京都。

summary:
summary line 5: Emperor Gaozu's concubine Ding, named Lingguang, was from Qiao State, living in Xiangyang. Born in Fancheng with a divine light and purple smoke, she was named "Light." A fortune teller predicted her wealth. At fourteen, Gaozu married her. She had a red mole on her left arm that disappeared when she was sent away. She served Empress De carefully and once saw divine figures. During Gaozu's rebellion, Crown Prince Zhaoming was born. In the first year of Tianjian, she was made a noble concubine, living in Xianyang Hall. A minister argued that her status should be respected due to her son, citing historical precedents. She was kind, frugal, and avoided luxury. She promoted Buddhism, refused meat, and ate only vegetables. On her ordination day, sweet dew fell. She was proficient in the Pure Name Sutra. She died in the seventh year of her life at age forty-two. A condolence poem praised her virtues. She was posthumously titled Mu. After Taizong ascended, she was honored as Empress Dowager Mu. Her father was a governor.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
齐始安王遥光纳焉。
遥光败，入东昏宫。
建康城平，高祖纳为彩女。
天监七年八月，生世祖。
寻拜为修容，常随世祖出蕃。
大同六年六月，薨于江州内寝，时年六十七。
其年十一月，归葬江宁县通望山。
谥曰宣。
世祖即位，有司奏追崇为文宣太后。
承圣二年，追赠太后父齐故奉朝请灵宝散骑常侍、左卫将军，封武康县侯，邑五百户；母陈氏，武康侯夫人。
世祖徐妃，讳昭佩，东海郯人也。
祖孝嗣，太尉、枝江文忠公。
父绲，侍中、信武将军。
天监十六年十二月，拜湘东王妃。
生世子方等、益昌公主含贞。
太清三年五月，被谴死，葬江陵瓦官寺。
史臣曰：后妃道赞皇风，化行天下，盖取《葛覃》、《关雎》之义焉。
translation: 
King Zha Shi'an took her as his concubine.
After Dong Guang's defeat, she was brought into the palace by Donghun Hou.
After Jianchenyuan was pacified, Zhidan accepted her as a palace maid.
In August of the seventh year of Yue, she gave birth to Shidan.
Soon he was granted the title of Xiurong, and he often followed Shizu out of the capital and lived in the fiefdom.
In June of the sixth year of Zuo Hui's reign, she died in her inner chamber in Jiangzhou at the age of sixty-seven.
In November of this year, he was buried in Tongwang Mountain in Jiangning County.
Mi Hao announced.
After Shidan ascended the throne as emperor, a minister asked her to honor her as the Empress Dowager Wenxuan.
In the second year of Cheng Sheng's reign, the Empress Dowager's late father, Man Man, asked Lingshi to posthumously grant him the official title of Sanqi Changshi, Zuowei General, and the posthumous title of Marquis of Wukang County, with a fiefdom of 500 households; his mother, Mrs. Chen, was the wife of the Marquis of Wukang.
Concubine Xu of Shizu, whose name was Zhaopei, was from Tan in the East China Sea.
His grandfather was a filial heir, and he became a Taiwei and Duke Wenzhong of Zhijiang.
His father, Xu Nu, served as an official and became a general in military affairs.
In December of the 16th year of Tianjian, she was named Princess Xiangshu.
The eldest son Fang Deng and Princess Hanzhen of Yichang were born.
In May of the third year of Taiqing, he was ordered to commit suicide and was buried in Waguan Temple, Jiangling.
Shi Chen said: The empress supported the royal customs morally, and the customs spread throughout the world. This was probably derived from the meaning of "Ge Tan" and "Guan Ju".

summary:
summary line 6: Emperor Gaozu's doctor, Zhao Yao, originally surnamed Hu, was from Hejikung Yao. King Zha Shi'an took her as a concubine. After Dong Guang's defeat, she was brought into the palace by Donghun Hou. After Jianchenyuan was pacified, Zhidan accepted her as a palace maid. In the seventh year of Yue, she gave birth to Shidan and was granted the title of Xiurong. She died in the sixth year of Zuo Hui at age sixty-seven and was buried in Tongwang Mountain. After Shidan became emperor, she was honored as Empress Dowager Wenxuan. Her father was posthumously granted titles, and her mother was made a marquis's wife.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
齐始安王遥光纳焉。
遥光败，入东昏宫。
建康城平，高祖纳为彩女。
天监七年八月，生世祖。
寻拜为修容，常随世祖出蕃。
大同六年六月，薨于江州内寝，时年六十七。
其年十一月，归葬江宁县通望山。
谥曰宣。
世祖即位，有司奏追崇为文宣太后。
承圣二年，追赠太后父齐故奉朝请灵宝散骑常侍、左卫将军，封武康县侯，邑五百户；母陈氏，武康侯夫人。
世祖徐妃，讳昭佩，东海郯人也。
祖孝嗣，太尉、枝江文忠公。
父绲，侍中、信武将军。
天监十六年十二月，拜湘东王妃。
生世子方等、益昌公主含贞。
太清三年五月，被谴死，葬江陵瓦官寺。
史臣曰：后妃道赞皇风，化行天下，盖取《葛覃》、《关雎》之义焉。
translation: 
King Zha Shi'an took her as his concubine.
After Dong Guang's defeat, she was brought into the palace by Donghun Hou.
After Jianchenyuan was pacified, Zhidan accepted her as a palace maid.
In August of the seventh year of Yue, she gave birth to Shidan.
Soon he was granted the title of Xiurong, and he often followed Shizu out of the capital and lived in the fiefdom.
In June of the sixth year of Zuo Hui's reign, she died in her inner chamber in Jiangzhou at the age of sixty-seven.
In November of this year, he was buried in Tongwang Mountain in Jiangning County.
Mi Hao announced.
After Shidan ascended the throne as emperor, a minister asked her to honor her as the Empress Dowager Wenxuan.
In the second year of Cheng Sheng's reign, the Empress Dowager's late father, Man Man, asked Lingshi to posthumously grant him the official title of Sanqi Changshi, Zuowei General, and the posthumous title of Marquis of Wukang County, with a fiefdom of 500 households; his mother, Mrs. Chen, was the wife of the Marquis of Wukang.
Concubine Xu of Shizu, whose name was Zhaopei, was from Tan in the East China Sea.
His grandfather was a filial heir, and he became a Taiwei and Duke Wenzhong of Zhijiang.
His father, Xu Nu, served as an official and became a general in military affairs.
In December of the 16th year of Tianjian, she was named Princess Xiangshu.
The eldest son Fang Deng and Princess Hanzhen of Yichang were born.
In May of the third year of Taiqing, he was ordered to commit suicide and was buried in Waguan Temple, Jiangling.
Shi Chen said: The empress supported the royal customs morally, and the customs spread throughout the world. This was probably derived from the meaning of "Ge Tan" and "Guan Ju".

summary:
summary line 7: Shizu's concubine Xu, named Zhaopei, was from Tan in the East China Sea. Her grandfather was a Taiwei and Duke Wenzhong, and her father was a general. In the 16th year of Tianjian, she was named Princess Xiangshu. She bore Fang Deng and Princess Hanzhen. In the third year of Taiqing, she was ordered to commit suicide and buried in Waguan Temple. The text concludes that the empress supported royal customs, while Mu Guifei's glory was displayed through her son, but the ancestor's concubine Xu lacked virtue and brought about her own destruction.

