Chunk 0: 
original: 
恭宗孝安皇帝讳祜，肃宗孙也。
父清河孝王庆，母左姬。
帝自在邸第，数有神光照室，又有赤蛇盘于床第之间。
年十岁，好学《史书》，和帝称之，数见禁中。
延平元年，庆始就国，邓太后特诏留帝清河邸。
八月，殇帝崩，太后与兄车骑将军邓骘定策禁中。
其夜，使骘持节，以王青盖车迎帝，斋于殿中。
皇太后御崇德殿，百官皆吉服，群臣陪位，引拜帝为长安侯。
皇太后诏曰： 先帝圣德淑茂，早弃天下。
朕奉皇帝，夙夜瞻仰日月，冀望成就。
岂意卒然颠沛，天年不遂，悲痛断心。
朕惟平原王素被痼疾，念宗庙之重，思继嗣之统，唯长安侯祜质性忠孝，小心翼翼，能通《诗》、《论》，笃学乐古，仁惠爱下。
translation: 
Emperor Gongzong Xiaoan was named Hu, and he was the grandson of Suzong.
His father is Liu Qing, the Xiaowang of Qinghe, and his mother is Zuo Ji.
Since the emperor lived in his father's mansion, there have been many times when gods have illuminated his room, and there have been red snakes coiled on his bed.
At the age of ten, he was eager to learn "Historical Records" and was praised by Emperor He, who summoned him to the palace many times.
In the first year of Yanping, Liu Qingcai came to Fengguo. Empress Dowager Deng issued a special order to keep Liu Hu in Qinghe residence.
In August, Emperor Shang passed away, and the Queen Mother and her brother, the chariot and cavalry general Deng Zhi, decided on the throne in the palace.
That night, Deng Zhao was sent with a talisman to greet Liu Hu in a Wang Qingqi chariot, and he tidied up his body and mind in the palace.
The Empress Dowager came to the Chongde Hall. All the officials were dressed in auspicious clothes, and all the ministers attended to accompany her. She introduced Liu Hu as the Marquis of Chang'an.
The empress dowager issued an edict saying: The late emperor's holy virtue and virtue, Shumao, abandoned the world long ago.
I serve the emperor and look forward to the years day and night, hoping to grow up quickly.
Unexpectedly, a sudden change occurred, and the life was not forever, and the heart was broken with grief.
I consider that the King of Pingyuan is suffering from a chronic illness. He has the important responsibilities of the ancestral temple and the successor to the throne. Only Liu Hu, the Marquis of Chang'an, is loyal and filial by nature, careful and prudent. He can understand "Poetry" and "Lun", study hard in ancient times, and be benevolent and loving. It is very suitable.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
年已十三，有成人之志。
亲德系后，莫宜于祜。
《礼》 昆弟之子犹己子 ；《春秋》之义，为人后者为之子，不以父命辞王父命。
其以祜为孝和皇帝嗣，奉承祖宗，案礼仪奏。 又作策命曰： 惟延平元年秋八月癸丑，皇太后曰：咨长安侯祜：孝和皇帝懿德巍巍，光于四海；大行皇帝不永天年。
朕惟侯孝章帝世嫡皇孙，谦恭慈顺，在孺而勤，宜奉郊庙，承统大业。
今以侯嗣孝和皇帝后。
其审君汉国，允执其中。一人有庆，万民赖之。
皇帝其勉之哉！ 读策毕，太尉奉上玺绶，即皇帝位，年十三。
太后犹临朝。
九月庚子，谒高庙。
辛丑，谒光武庙。
六州大水。
己未，遣谒者分行虚实，举灾害，赈乏绝。
丙寅，葬孝殇皇帝于庚陵。
乙亥，陨石于陈留。
translation: 
He is now thirteen years old and has the ambition of an adult.
There is no one better than Liu Hu to be close to the people and carry on the family line with virtue and virtue.
"Book of Rites" says: A brother's son is like his own son; the meaning of "Spring and Autumn" means that the son is his son, and he is not ordered by his father but by his grandfather.
Hu should be regarded as the heir of Emperor Xiaohe and inherit the ancestors, in line with etiquette standards. He also wrote a policy letter saying: On the eighth day of the eighth month in the autumn of the first year of Yanping, the Empress Dowager said: "Consultation!" Chang'an Marquis Liu Hu: Emperor Xiaohe's virtue is majestic and shines all over the world; the newly deceased emperor's life span is too short.
I think of you, Marquis of Chang'an, as the direct grandson of Emperor Xiaozhang. You are humble and kind, and very diligent since your childhood. You are suitable for worshiping in suburban temples and inheriting the emperor's legacy.
Now the Marquis of Chang'an is the heir of Emperor Xiaohe.
The Han world should be governed with caution and the golden mean should be practiced with integrity. If one person is happy, all the people will rely on it.
The emperor should encourage him! After reading the policy, the Taiwei presented the imperial seal, and Liu Hu succeeded to the throne at the age of thirteen.
The Queen Mother is still in charge of the government.
On September 26th, I paid a visit to Gaomiao.
On the 27th, I visited Guangwu Temple.
Floods occurred in six states.
At the end of the day, he sent envoys to investigate the actual situation, report disasters, and provide relief to the poor who were short of food.
Bingyin buried Emperor Xiaoshang in Kangling.
Yihai, Chenliu meteorite.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
西域诸国叛，攻都护任尚，遣副校尉梁慬救尚，击破之。
冬十月，四州大水，雨雹。
诏以宿麦不下，赈赐贫人。
十二月甲子，清河王薨，使司空持节吊祭，车骑将军邓骘护丧事。
乙酉，罢鱼龙曼延百戏。
永初元年春正月癸酉朔，大赦天下。
蜀郡徼外羌内属。
戊寅，分犍为南部为属国都尉。
禀司隶、兖、豫、徐、冀、并州贫民。
二月丙午，以广成游猎地及被灾郡国公田假与贫民。
丁卯，分清河国封帝弟常保为广川王。
庚午，司徒梁鲔薨。
三月癸酉，日有食之，诏公卿内外众官、郡国守、相，举贤良方正、有道术之士，明政术、达古今、能直言极谏者，各一人。
己卯，永昌徼外僬侥种夷贡献内属。
translation: 
The foreign tribes in the Western Regions rebelled and attacked Ren Shang, the governor. He sent the deputy captain Liang Jinjin to rescue Ren Shang and defeated the foreign tribes.
In October of winter, there were floods and hail in the four states.
The edict issued an order to provide relief and rewards to the poor because wheat could not be planted.
On December 21, King Qinghe passed away. Sikong was sent to hold the talisman to pay tribute, and the chariot general Deng Zhi was sent to protect the funeral.
Yiyou, let's go and let the fish and dragons bloom and perform hundreds of plays.
On the first day of spring in the first year of Yongchu, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
The Qiang people outside Shu County were subordinated to the inner vassal.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, Jianwei was divided into the southern part and became the captain of the vassal state.
The grain stored in warehouses was loaned to the poor in Sili, Yan, Yu, Xu, Ji, and Bingzhou.
On the fourth day of February, the Guangcheng recreation and hunting place and the public land of the disaster-stricken counties were lent to the poor.
On the 25th, Liu Changbao, the emperor's brother from the Qinghe Kingdom, was named King of Guangchuan.
On the 28th, Situ Liang died.
On the second day of March, there is a solar eclipse. The imperial edict is directed to all the officials inside and outside the country, as well as to the prime ministers of prefectures and states, to recommend virtuous, upright and Taoist scholars, one person each who has good political skills, has reached the ancient and modern times, and can speak out and give advice.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, the Yi people outside Yongchang paid tribute to the internal genus.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
甲申，葬清河孝王，赠龙旗、虎贲。
夏五月甲戌，长乐卫尉鲁恭为司徒。
丁丑，诏封北海王睦孙寿光侯普为北海王。
九真徼外夜郎蛮夷举上内属。
六月戊申，爵皇太后母阴氏为新野君。
丁巳，河东地陷。
壬戌，罢西域都护。
先零种羌叛，断陇道，大为寇掠，遣车骑将军邓骘、征西校尉任尚讨之。丁卯，赦除诸羌相连结谋叛逆者罪。
秋九月庚午，诏三公明申旧令，禁奢侈，无作浮巧之物，殚财厚葬。
是日，太尉徐防免。
辛未，司空尹勤免。
癸酉，调杨州五郡租米，赡给东郡、济阴、陈留、梁国、下邳、山阳。
丁丑，诏曰： 自今长吏被考竟未报，自非父母丧，无故辄去职者，剧县十岁、平县五岁以上，乃得次用。 壬午，诏太仆、少府减黄门鼓吹，以补羽林士；厩马非乘舆常所御者，皆减半食；诸所造作，非供宗庙园陵之用，皆且止。
丙戌，诏死罪以下及亡命赎，各有差。
庚寅，太傅张禹为太尉，太常周章为司空。
冬十月，倭国遣使奉献。
辛酉，新城山泉水大出。
十一月丁亥，司空周章密谋废立，策免，自杀。
戊子，敕司隶校尉、冀、并二州刺史： 民讹言相惊，弃捐旧居，老弱相携，穷困道路。
translation: 
On the twelfth day, King Xiao of Qinghe was buried and presented with dragon flags and tiger batons.
On the third day of the fifth lunar month in the summer, Lu Gong, the Changle Guardsman, was appointed Situ.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, the imperial edict conferred the title of King of the North Sea, Liu Mu, Sun Shouguanghou Liu Pu.
Jiuzhen is outside Yelang's barbarian tribe, and he is a native of the country.
On the eighth day of the sixth lunar month, the Empress Dowager Mu Yin was granted the title of Xinyejun.
On the 17th, the land east of Hedong collapsed.
On the 22nd, he was dismissed as the Protector of the Western Regions.
The Ling Zhong Qiang rebelled, cut off the Long Road, and carried out major raids. They sent the chariot general Deng Zhi and Zhengxi Xiaowei Ren Shang to attack them. On the 27th, they pardoned the sins of the Qiang people for colluding with each other and conspiring to rebel.
On the first day of the ninth lunar month in autumn, the three princes were ordered to reiterate the old order, prohibiting extravagance, making ostentatious and ingenious things, and spending money on lavish burials.
On this day, Taiwei Xu Fang was dismissed from his post.
On the second day of junior high school, Sikong Yinqin was dismissed from his post.
On the fourth day of the lunar month, the rice rented from Yangzhou and other five counties was transferred to Dongjun, Jiyin, Chenliu, Liangguo, Xiapi, and Shanyang.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, the edict said: From now on, if the long-term officials have been questioned but have not yet been decided, unless their parents have died and resigned without reason, they can only be appointed after ten years in counties with many officials and five years in ordinary counties. On the 13th, the imperial servants and the young master were ordered to reduce the number of Huangmen drums and drums to supplement the feathers of Linshi. The stables and horses that were not regularly used by the emperor were rationed by half. All the utensils made that were not for the ancestral temple, garden and mausoleum were temporarily stopped.
On the 17th, it was decreed that those who had committed crimes under the death penalty and those who were on the run could atone for their sins and redeem their belongings.
On the 21st, Taifu Zhang Yu was appointed Taiwei, and Taichang Zhou Zhang was appointed Sikong.
In the tenth month of winter, Japan sent envoys to pay tribute.
On the 23rd, Xincheng mountain spring water came out.
On November 19, Sikong Zhouzhang conspired to abolish Li, was dismissed by the policy secretary, and committed suicide.
On the 20th, he ordered the Sili Xiaowei and the governor of Ji and the two states to say: The residents were disturbed by rumors and left their old residences to support the old and the young, and became impoverished.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
其各敕所部长吏，躬亲晓喻。
若欲归本郡，在所为封长檄；不欲，勿强。
十二月乙卯，颍川太守张敏为司空。
是岁，郡国十八地震；四十一雨水，或山水暴至；二十八大风，雨雹。
二年春正月，禀河南、下邳、东莱、河内贫民。
车骑将军邓骘为种羌所败于冀西。
二月乙丑，遣光禄大夫樊准、吕仓分行冀、兖二州，禀贷流民。
夏四月甲寅，汉阳城中火，烧杀三千五百七十人。
五月，旱。
丙寅，皇太后幸洛阳寺及若庐狱，录囚徒，赐河南尹、廷尉、卿及官属以下各有差，即日降雨。
六月，京师及郡国四十大水，大风，雨雹。
秋七月戊辰，诏曰： 昔在帝王，承天理民，莫不据璇机玉衡，以齐七政。朕以不德，遵奉大业，而阴阳差越，变异并见，万民饥流，羌貊叛戾。
夙夜克己，忧心京京。
translation: 
Each official should be warned to explain to the residents in person and not to be deceived.
If anyone wants to go back to the county, the local government will issue a certification document; if you don’t want to go back, don’t force it.
On December 18, Zhang Min, the governor of Yingchuan, was appointed Sikong.
This year, there were eighteen earthquakes in the county, forty-one rains, some mountain and water storms, and twenty-eight strong winds and hail.
In the spring and first month of the second year, grain stored in warehouses was used to provide relief to the poor in Henan, Xiapi, Donglai and Hanoi.
The chariot general Deng Zhao was defeated by Zhong Qiang in the west of Ji County.
On February 29, Guanglu officials Fan Zhun and Lu Cang were sent to inspect Ji and Yanzhou respectively, and used grain stored in warehouses to provide relief to the refugees.
On April 19th in the summer, a fire broke out in Hanyang City, killing 3,570 people.
In May, the weather was dry.
On the first day of the Lunar New Year, the Empress Dowager went to Luoyang Temple and Ruolu Prison to examine and record the prisoners, and rewarded Henan Yin, Tingwei, Qing, and officials in varying degrees. It rained that day.
In June, there were floods, strong winds, and hail in forty places in the capital and prefectures.
On the fourth day of the seventh lunar month in the autumn, the edict said: The former emperors governed the people in accordance with the mandate of heaven, and they all mastered astronomical instruments and understood the changes of the sun, moon and five stars. I, with my humble virtue, am the prime minister for the great cause of a country. The yin and yang are not in harmony, and mutations are common. The people are hungry and cold, and the Qiang are rebellious.
Reflecting and worrying day and night.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
间令公卿郡国举贤良方正，远求博选，开不讳之路，冀得至谋，以鉴不逮，而所对皆循尚浮言，无卓尔异闻。
其百僚及郡国吏人，有道术明习灾异阴阳之度璇机之数者，各使指变以闻。
二千石长吏明以诏书，博衍幽隐，朕将亲览，待以不次，冀获嘉谋，以承天诫。
闰月辛丑，广川王常保薨，无子，国除。
癸未，蜀郡徼外羌举土内属。
九月庚子，诏王国官属墨绶下至郎、谒者，其经明任博士，居乡里有廉清孝顺之称、才任理人者，国相岁移名，与计偕上尚书，公府通调，令得外补。
冬十月庚寅，禀济阴、山阳、玄菟贫民。
征西校尉任尚与先零羌战于平襄，尚军败绩。
十一月辛酉，拜邓骘为大将军，征还京师，留任尚屯陇右。
先零羌滇零称天子于北地，遂寇三辅，东犯赵、魏，南入益州，杀汉中太守董炳。
十二月辛卯，禀东郡、巨鹿、广阳、安定、定襄、沛国贫民。
广汉塞外参狼羌降，分广汉北部为属国都尉。
是岁，郡国十二地震。
translation: 
Recently, I have ordered the ministers and counties to recommend virtuous and upright people, and to seek the best candidates from far away, so as to open up a situation where people will not be taboo and dare to remonstrate directly, hoping to get good strategies to prevent arrests. But what I got was just some floating words, without any foresight.
Now I am ordering all officials and county officials who have Taoist skills to study the yin and yang of disasters and are familiar with astronomical laws to point out the problem.
The two thousand stone chief officials clearly explained the edict, and quoted it extensively and obscurely. I will personally listen to the opinions and give preferential treatment. In general, I want to get good strategies and accept the warning from heaven.
On the seventh day of the seventh lunar month, King Liu Changbao of Guangchuan died without any children, and the feudal state was abolished.
In Guiwei, all the Qiang people outside Shu County belonged to the people inside.
On the seventh day of the ninth lunar month, the imperial edict was issued to the officials of the kingdom who were under the minister's ink ribbon and who came to Lang and Ye. Those who knew the secrets of the scriptures should be appointed as doctors. Only those who lived in the countryside and had a good reputation of being honest and filial could be qualified to govern the people. The prime minister of the country would prepare a register every year and submit it to the minister together with the planners. The government would elect officials in order to replace them.
On October 28th in winter, grain stored in warehouses was used to provide relief to the poor people in Yin, Shanyang, and Xuantu.
Ren Shang, the captain of the expedition to the west, fought with the Xianling Qiang in Pingxiang, but Ren Shang's army failed.
On November 29, Deng Zhi was awarded the rank of general, summoned back to the capital, and remained in the post of Shang stationed in Longyou.
Xianling Qiang Dianling was called the emperor in the north. The bandits plundered the three auxiliaries, invaded Zhao and Wei in the east, entered Yizhou in the south, and killed Dong Bing, the prefect of Hanzhong.
On December 30, grain stored in warehouses was used to provide relief to the poor in Dongjun, Julu, Guangyang, Anding, Dingxiang, and Peiguo.
The Langqiang surrendered outside the Great Wall of Guanghan, and the northern part of Guanghan was divided into the vassal capital.
This year, there were twelve earthquakes in the county.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
三年春正月庚子，皇帝加元服。
大赦天下。
赐王、主、贵人、公、卿以下金帛各有差；男子为父后，及三老、考悌、力田爵，人二级，流民欲占者人一级。
遣骑都尉任仁讨先零羌，不利，羌遂破没临洮。
高句骊遣使贡献。
三月，京师大饥，民相食。
壬辰，公卿诣阙谢。
诏曰： 朕以幼冲，奉承鸿业，不能宣流风化，而感逆阴阳，至令百姓饥荒，更相啖食。
永怀悼叹，若坠渊水。
咎在朕躬，非群司之责，而过自贬引，重朝廷之不德。
其务思变复，以助不逮。 癸巳，诏以鸿池假与贫民。
壬寅，司徒鲁恭免。
夏四月丙寅，大鸿胪九江夏勤为司徒。
translation: 
On the ninth day of the first lunar month in the spring of the third year, the emperor crowned him.
Amnesty to the world.
The king, lord, nobles, dukes and ministers will be rewarded with different amounts of gold and silk respectively; after the man becomes a father, and the three elders, filial brothers, and Li Tianjue, each person will be given the second level, and the refugee will return to the first level.
The cavalry captain Ren Ren was sent to attack the Xianling Qiang, but it was not successful, and the Qiang captured Linhu Zhao.
Gaoguli sent envoys to pay tribute.
In March, there was a great famine in the capital, and the hungry people ate each other.
On the second day of the lunar month, the minister went to the emperor's residence to apologize and admit his mistakes.
The edict said: I inherited the emperor's legacy at a young age and was unable to carry forward traditional culture. Instead, I created a mismatch between yin and yang, causing the people to starve and dare not eat each other.
Let me mourn and lament for a long time, as if I were falling into a bottomless abyss.
The blame lies with me alone, not with the officials of various ministries. However, you have blamed yourself for devaluing yourself, which further demonstrates the imperial court's immorality.
Be sure to consider changing your approach to recovery so that it doesn't help me enough. On the third day of the lunar month, the imperial edict lent Hongchi to the poor so that they could fish in it.
On the 12th, Situ Lugong was dismissed.
On the seventh day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Dahonglu and Xia Qin of Jiujiang were appointed as Situ.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
三公以国用不足，奏令吏人入钱谷，得为关内侯、虎贲羽林郎、五大夫、官府吏、缇骑、营士各有差。
己巳，诏上林、广成苑可垦辟者，赋与贫民。
甲申，清河王虎威薨。
五月丙申，封乐安王宠子延平为清河王。
丁酉，沛王正薨。
癸丑，京师大风。
六月，乌桓寇代郡、上谷、涿郡。
秋七月，海贼张伯路等寇略缘海九郡，遣侍御史庞雄督州、郡兵讨破之。
庚子，诏长吏案行在所，皆令种宿麦蔬食，务尽地力，其贫者给种饷。
九月，雁门乌桓及鲜卑叛，败五原郡兵于高渠谷。
冬十月，南单于叛，围中郎将耿种于美稷。
十一月，遣行车骑将军何熙讨之。
十二月辛酉，郡国九地震。
乙亥，有星孛于天苑。
是岁，京师及郡国四十一雨水雹。并、凉二州大饥，人相食。
translation: 
The three princes felt that the state supplies were insufficient, so they asked the officials and the people to take in the grain. They were selected as Guanneihou, Hubenyu Linlang, five officials, government officials, Tiqi, and camp soldiers.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, it was ordered that the areas in Shanglin and Guangchengyuan that could be cultivated and developed should be rented to the poor.
On the 25th, Liu Huwei, King of Qinghe, passed away.
On the seventh day of May, Liu Yanping, the beloved son of King Le'an, was granted the title of King of Qinghe.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, King Pei Liu Zheng passed away.
On the 24th, there was a strong wind in the capital.
In June, Wuhuan invaders raided Daijun, Shanggu and Zhuojun.
In the seventh month of autumn, the pirate Zhang Bolu and other bandits raided the nine counties of Haihai. He sent the imperial censor Pang Xiong to urge the state and county soldiers to attack and defeat them.
On the twelfth day, officials were ordered to inspect the capital area, and they were all called to plant wheat and eat vegetables. They must do their best to provide seeds and food to poor farmers.
In September, Yanmen Wuhuan and Xianbei rebelled and defeated the Wuyuan County soldiers in Gaoqu Valley.
In the tenth month of winter, Nan Danyu rebelled and surrounded Geng Zhong, the general of the army in Meiji.
In November, the acting chariot and cavalry general He Zhao was sent to attack.
On the fifth day of December, nine earthquakes occurred in the county.
On the 19th, a comet appeared at Tianyuan Star.
This year, there were hailstorms in the capital and prefectures forty-one times, and there was a severe famine in the two states of Binzhou and Liang, with people cannibalizing themselves.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
四年春正月元日，会，彻乐，不陈充庭车。
辛卯，诏以三辅比遭寇乱，人庶流冗，除三年逋租、过更、口算、刍稿；禀上郡贫民各有差。
海贼张伯路复与勃海、平原剧贼刘文河、周文光等攻厌次，杀县令，遣御史中丞王宗督青州刺史法雄讨破之。
度辽将军梁慬、辽东太守耿夔讨破南单于於属国故城。
丙午，诏减百官及州、郡、县奉各有差。
二月丁巳，禀九江贫民。
南匈奴寇常山。
乙丑，初置长安、雍二营都尉官。
乙亥，诏自建初以来，诸祅言它过坐徙边者，各归本郡；其没入官为奴婢者，免为庶人。
诏谒者刘珍及《五经》博士，校定东观《五经》、诸子、传记、百家艺术，整齐脱误，是正文字。
translation: 
On the first day of the first lunar month in the spring of the fourth year, the imperial court held a gathering and withdrew the singing and music, and did not display the chariots and carriages in the court because of the shortage of years.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, the imperial edict issued an order to exempt three years of rent arrears from the three auxiliaries due to the bandits' rebellion and the dispersal of the people. They would also be required to make updates, oral calculations, and manuscripts. The grain stored in the warehouses would be used to provide relief to the poor people in the upper county.
The pirate Zhang Bolu and Liu Wenhe, Zhou Wenguang and other powerful bandits from the Bohai and plains attacked Yanci and killed the county magistrate. He sent the censor Zhongcheng Wang Zongdu Qingzhou governor Faxiong to defeat them.
Liang Jin, the general who conquered the Liao Dynasty, and Geng Kui, the governor of Liaodong, conquered the old city of Nandan in the vassal state.
On the 21st, the edict was issued to reduce the salaries of hundreds of officials and officials in prefectures, counties and counties.
On the second day of February, food was provided to the poor in Jiujiang.
The southern Huns raided Changshan.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, the captains of the second battalion of Chang'an and Yong were set up.
On the 20th, the edict issued an order that those who had been sent to remote areas due to various rumors and other faults since the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China should be returned to their own counties;
The imperial edict ordered Liu Zhen and the Doctor of the Five Classics to review Dongguan's Five Classics, various scholars, biographies, and hundreds of schools of art, sort out errors, and correct the text.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
三月，南单于降。
先零羌寇褒中，汉中太守郑勤战殁。
徙金城郡都襄武。
戊子，杜陵园火。
癸巳，郡国九地震。
夏四月，六州蝗。
丁丑，大赦天下。
秋七月乙酉，三郡大水。
己卯，骑都尉任仁下狱死。
九月甲申，益州郡地震。
冬十月甲戌，新野君阴氏薨，使司空持节护丧事。
大将军邓骘罢。
五年春正月庚辰朔，日有食之。
丙戌，郡国十地震。己丑，太尉张禹免。
甲申，光禄勋李脩为太尉。
二月丁卯，诏省减郡国贡献太官口食，先零羌寇河东，遂至河内。
三月，诏陇西徙襄武，安定徙美阳，北地徙池阳，上郡徙衙。
夫馀夷犯塞，杀伤吏人。
闰月丁酉，赦凉州河西四郡。
戊戌，诏曰：
translation: 
In March, Nandanyu surrendered.
Xianling Qiang bandits plundered Baozhong, and Zheng Qin, the prefect of Hanzhong, died in the battle.
Moved the capital of Jincheng County to Xiangwu.
On the fourth day of the Lunar New Year, there was a fire in Du Cemetery.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, there was an earthquake on the ninth day of the lunar month.
In April of summer, there was a locust plague in six states.
On the 23rd, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the third day of the seventh month in autumn, there was a flood in the three counties.
In Ji Mao, Captain Ren Ren of the Cavalry Command was imprisoned to death.
On the third day of September, there was an earthquake in Yizhou County.
On the twenty-third day of the tenth month in winter, Junyin of Xinye passed away, and Sikong held the talisman to guard the funeral.
General Deng Zhao left.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fifth year of spring, there was a solar eclipse. On the seventh day of the lunar month, there was an earthquake in the county.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Taiwei Zhang Yu was dismissed from his post.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Guang Luxun and Li Xiu were appointed as Taiwei.
On February 18, the imperial edict was issued to reduce the number of provinces and counties to contribute food to the eunuchs. First, the Qiang bandits raided the east of the river and reached Hanoi.
In March, the imperial edict was issued to move Longxi to Xiangwu, Anding to Meiyang, Northland to Chiyang, and Shangjun to Yamen.
Fuyu Yi people invaded the frontier fortress and killed and wounded officials and people.
On the 19th day of the intercalary month, the four counties of Liangzhou and Hexi were pardoned.
On the 20th, the edict said:


Chunk 10: 
original: 
朕以不德，奉郊庙，承大业，不能兴和降善，为人祈福。
灾异蜂起，寇贼纵横，夷狄猾夏，戎事不息，百姓匮乏，疲于征发。
重以蝗虫滋生，害及成麦，秋稼方收，甚可悼也。
朕以不明，统理失中，亦未获忠良以毗阙政。
传曰： 颠而不扶，危而不持，则将焉用彼相矣。 公卿大夫将何以匡救，济斯艰厄，承天诫哉？
盖为政之本，莫若得人，褒贤显善，圣制所先。 济济多士，文王以宁 。
思得忠良正直之臣，以辅不逮。
其令三公、特进、侯、中二千石、二千石、郡守、诸侯相举贤良方正、不道术、达于政化、能直言极谏之士各一人，及至孝与众卓异者，并遣诣公车，朕将亲览焉。
六月甲辰，乐成王巡薨。
秋七月己巳，诏三公、特进、九卿、校尉，举列将子孙明晓战陈任将帅者。
translation: 
As a person of poor virtue, I serve in a suburban temple and inherit the great power, but I cannot be prosperous and kind and benefit people.
On the contrary, disasters occurred one after another, bandits were rampant, barbarians and Di bandits plundered, and wars continued, resulting in poverty for the people and heavy taxes and servitude.
In addition, locusts breed and damage the crops. The rice will not bear fruit and the autumn harvest will be hopeless, which is painful.
Because I was not wise and ruled improperly, I also failed to find loyal assistants to assist me.
The letter said: If you fall down, you can't help. If you are in danger, you can't help. So where do you need a minister? How should ministers and ministers help, relieve the hardships and receive God's warning?
Nothing is more important in politics than getting talent. Praising and praising virtuous people is the primary emphasis of the sage's legal system. There are many talents, so King Wen is at peace.
I really want to have loyal and upright ministers to help me.
I now order one of the Three Dukes, Tejin, Marquis, Zhong Erqianshi, Erqianshi, County Guard, and the princes to select one person each who is virtuous, upright, knowledgeable, knowledgeable in political education, and able to speak out and give advice, as well as those who are the most distinguished in their filial piety, and send them to the bus. I will receive them personally and listen to their opinions.
On June 27th, King Liu Xun of Success passed away.
On the 23rd day of the seventh month in autumn, the imperial edict was issued to Sangong, Tejin, Jiuqing, and Xiaowei to recommend their descendants who could serve as generals in the Mingxiao Battle Formation and submit their lists.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
九月，汉阳人杜琦、王信叛，与先零诸种羌攻陷上邽城。
十二月，汉阳太守赵博遣额刺杀杜琦。
是岁，九州蝗，郡国八雨水。
六年春正月庚申，诏越巂置长利、高望、始昌三苑，又令益州郡置万岁苑，犍为置汉平苑。
三月，十州蝗。
夏四月乙丑，司空张敏罢。
己卯，太常刘恺为司空。
五月，旱。
丙寅，诏令中二千石下至黄绶，一切复秩还赎，赐爵各有差。
戊辰，皇太后幸雒阳寺，录囚徒，理冤狱。
六月壬辰，豫章、员谿、原山崩。
辛巳，大赦天下。
遣侍御史唐喜讨汉阳贼王信，破斩之。
冬十一月辛丑，护乌桓校尉吴祉下狱死。
是岁，先零羌滇零死，子零昌复袭伪号。
七年春正月庚戌，皇太后率大臣命妇谒宗庙。
二月丙午，郡国十八地震。
夏四月乙未，平原王胜薨。
丙申晦，日有食之。
translation: 
In September, Du Qi and Wang Xin from Hanyang rebelled, and together with other Qiang tribes from Xianling, they captured Shangguihuang City.
In December, Hanyang Governor Zhao Bo sent assassins to kill Du Qi.
This year, there was a locust plague in Kyushu, causing rain in all counties and counties.
On the seventeenth day of the first month of the sixth year of spring, the imperial edict was issued to Yue to set up Changli, Gaowang and Shichang gardens, Yizhou county to set up Wansui garden, and Qianwei to set up Hanping garden.
In March, there was a locust plague in ten states.
In the summer of April, Yi Chou, Sikong and Zhang Min left.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Taichang Liu Kai was appointed Sikong.
May, drought.
On the twenty-fifth day, two thousand stones were ordered to be brought down to Huangshou, and all were restored to rank and redeemed, and all were given different titles.
On the 27th, the Empress Dowager went to Luoyang Temple to interrogate and record the crimes of the prisoners and clean up the unjust prison.
On June 21, landslides occurred in Yuzhang, Yuanxiguan and Yuan.
In October, there is a general amnesty.
Tang happy, the imperial censor, was sent to attack the Hanyang thief Wang Xin, defeat him and kill him.
On the second day of the eleventh month in winter, Wu Zhi, the captain of Wuhuan School, died in prison.
This year, Xian Ling Qiang and Dian Ling died, and Zi Lingchang attacked again.
On the twelfth day of the first lunar month in the seventh year of spring, the empress dowager led the ministers and wives to visit the ancestral temple.
On Bingwu in February, there was an earthquake in the county.
On April 29th in the summer, Liu Sheng, king of Pingyuan, passed away.
On the 30th, there was a solar eclipse.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
五月庚子，京师大雩。
秋，护羌校尉侯霸、骑都尉马贤破先零羌。
八月丙寅，京师大风，蝗虫飞过洛阳。
诏赐民爵。
郡国被蝗伤稼十五以上，勿收今年田租；不满者，以实除之。
九月，调零陵、桂阳、豫章、会稽租米，赈给南阳、广陵、下邳、彭城、山阳、庐江、九江饥民；又调滨水县谷输敖仓。
元初元年春正月甲子，改元元初。
赐民爵，人二级，孝悌、力田人三级，爵过公乘，得移与子若同产、同产子，民脱无名数及流民欲占者人一级；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃贫不能自存者谷，人三斛；贞妇帛，人一匹。
二月己卯，日南地坼。
三月癸酉，日有食之。
夏四月丁酉，大赦天下。
京师及郡国五旱、蝗。
translation: 
On the fourth day of May, the capital offers sacrifices to pray for rain.
In the autumn, Hou Ba, the guarding Qiang school captain, and Ma Xian, the cavalry captain, defeated the Xianling Qiang.
On the second day of August, there was a strong wind in the capital and locusts flew over Luoyang.
The imperial edict was given to the people.
If more than five-tenths of a county's crops are damaged by locusts, this year's field rent will not be collected; if less than five-tenths of the crop is damaged by locusts, it will be exempted based on the actual situation.
In September, Lingling, Guiyang, Danyang, Yuzhang, and Kuaiji were allocated to rent rice and provide relief to the hungry people in Nanyang, Guangling, Xiapi, Pengcheng, Shanyang, Lujiang, and Jiujiang. They also allocated grain from Binshui County to Aocang.
On the second day of the first month of spring in the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, it was changed to the beginning of the Yuan Dynasty.
Each person is given a second level of civilian title; each person of filial piety and Litian is given a third level; if the title is higher than that of a public vehicle, he can be transferred to his son or his brother or the son of his half-brother; each person who has no household registration and is a refugee is given a first level; those who are widowers, widows, orphans, alone, terminally ill, and too poor to live will be given three dendrobiums of grain; each chaste woman will be given one piece of silk.
In the second month of the second lunar month, Ji Mao was in the southern part of the country.
On March 12, a solar eclipse occurred.
On the seventh day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
There were five droughts and locust plagues in the capital and prefectures.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
诏三公、特进、列侯、中二千石、二千石、郡守举敦厚质直者，各一人。
五月，先零羌寇雍城。
六月丁巳，河东地陷。
秋七月，蜀郡夷寇蚕陵，杀县令。
九月乙丑，太尉李脩罢。
先零羌寇武都、汉中，绝陇道。
辛未，大司农山阳司马苞为太尉。
冬十月戊子朔，日有食之。
先零羌败凉州刺史皮阳于狄道。
乙卯，诏除三辅三岁田租、更赋、口算。
十一月。
是岁，郡国十五地震。
二年春正月，诏禀三辅及并、凉六郡流冗贫人。
蜀郡青衣道夷奉献内属。
修理西门豹所分漳水为支渠，以溉民田。
二月戊戌，遣中谒者收葬京师客死无家属及棺椁朽败者，皆为设祭；其有家属，尤贫无以葬者，赐钱人五千。
辛酉，诏三辅、河内、河东、上党、赵国、太原各修理旧渠，通利水道，以溉公私田畴。
三月癸亥，京师大风。
先零羌寇益州，遣中郎将尹就讨之。
夏四月丙午，立贵人阎氏为皇后。
translation: 
The imperial edict was issued to the three Dukes, Tejin, Liehou, Zhong Erqianshi, Erqianshi, and the county governor to recommend one honest, honest and upright person each.
In the fifth month, Qiang bandits raided Yongcheng.
On June 28, Hedong subsided.
In the seventh month of autumn, barbarians from Shu County looted Canling and killed the county magistrate.
On the seventh day of September, Taiwei Li Xiu left.
First, the Qiang bandits raided Wudu and Hanzhong, cutting off the Long Road.
On the 13th, Sima Bao, the chief minister of Nongshan Yang, was appointed as Taiwei.
On the first day of October in winter, a solar eclipse occurs.
Xianling Qiang defeated Pi Yang, the governor of Liangzhou, in Didao.
On the 28th, the imperial edict exempted the third assistant from land rent, more taxes, and oral calculations for three years.
November.
There was an earthquake in the county on the 15th.
In the spring and first month of the second year, an edict was issued to provide grain relief to the poor people living in Sanfu and Bing and Liang counties.
Qingyi Daoyi in Shu County pays tribute.
The Zhang River divided by Ximen Bao was repaired and turned into a branch canal to irrigate people's fields.
On the twelfth day of the second lunar month, a visitor from the capital was sent to bury those who died without family members or whose coffins were decayed. Those who had family members but were extremely poor and unable to bury them were given five thousand dollars each.
Xin You ordered Sanfu, Hanoi, Hedong, Shangdang, Zhao Guo and Taiyuan to repair old canals and make them accessible to irrigate public and private fields.
On the eighth day of March, there was a strong wind in the capital.
First, the Qiang bandits raided Yizhou and sent General Yin Jiu of Zhonglang to attack them.
On the 21st of April in the summer, the noble Yan family was made queen.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
五月，京师旱，河南及郡国十九蝗。
甲戌，诏曰： 朝廷不明，庶事失中，灾异不息，忧心悼惧。
被蝗以来，七年于兹，而州、郡隐匿，裁言顷亩。
今群飞蔽天，为害广远，所言所见，宁相副邪？
三司之职，内外是监，即不奏闻，又无举正。
天灾至重，欺罔罪大。
今方盛夏，且复假贷，以观厥后。
其务消救灾眚，安辑黎元。
六月丙戌，太尉司马苞薨。
洛阳新城地裂。
秋七月辛巳，太仆太山马英为太尉。
八月，辽东鲜卑围无虑县。
九月，又攻夫犁营，杀县令。
壬午晦，日有食之。
冬十月，遣中郎将任尚屯三辅。
诏郡国中都官系囚减死一等，勿笞，诣冯翊、扶风屯，妻子自随，占著所在；女子勿输。
亡命死罪以下赎，各有差。
其吏人聚为盗贼，有悔过者，除其罪。
translation: 
In May, there was a drought in the capital and nineteen locust plagues occurred in Henan and other prefectures.
On the 20th, the edict said: The court is unclear, the government is improper, and the disasters keep changing. I am worried.
It has been seven years since the locust plague, but the prefectures and counties have concealed the situation, only saying how many hectares and acres were affected.
A swarm of locusts appears covering the sky, causing harm far and wide. Do what they say and what they see are consistent?
The duties of the three departments must be supervised both internally and externally. Neither reporting it upward nor making corrections on the spot.
Natural disasters are so serious, and it is a very serious crime to deceive the gods.
It's midsummer now, so I'm temporarily exempting myself from prosecution and showing tolerance to see the consequences.
The suffering caused by disasters should be eliminated and the people should be appeased.
On the second day of June, Taiwei Sima Bao passed away.
The ground in Luoyang New Town collapsed.
On the twenty-eighth day of the seventh month in autumn, he appointed his servant Taishan Ma Ying as Taiwei.
In August, Xianbei, Liaodong, surrounded Wulu County.
In September, he attacked Fuli camp again and killed the county magistrate.
On the 30th, there was a solar eclipse.
In the tenth month of winter, Zhonglang was sent to Shangtun to be stationed at Sanfu.
The imperial edict ordered all officials in the prefecture and state to reduce the death penalty by one level, and not to be whipped, but to send Feng Yi and Fufeng to cultivate the land. The wives would follow and register in the local household; the women should not be sent.
There is no difference between the sin of death and the sin of atonement.
When officials and people gather together to commit robberies, those who repent and behave well will be exempted from crime.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
乙未，右扶风仲光、安定太守杜恢、京兆虎牙都尉耿溥与先零羌战于丁奚城，光等大败，并没。
左冯翊司马钧下狱，自杀。
十一月庚申，郡国十地震。
十二月，武陵澧中蛮叛，州、郡击破之。
己酉，司徒夏勤罢。庚戌，司空刘恺为司徒，光禄勋袁敞为司空。
三年春正月甲戌，修理太原旧沟渠，溉灌官私田。
东平陆上言木连理。
苍、郁林、合浦蛮夷反叛，二月，遣侍御史任逴督州、郡兵讨之。
郡国十地震。
三月辛亥，日有食之。
丙辰，赦苍梧、郁林、合浦、南海吏人为贼所迫者。
夏四月，京师旱。
五月，武陵蛮复叛，州、郡讨破之。
癸酉，度辽将军邓遵率南匈奴击先零羌于灵州，破之。
越巂徼外夷举种内属。
六月，中郎将任尚遣兵击破先零羌于丁奚城。
秋七月，武陵蛮复叛，州、郡讨平之。
缑氏地坼。
九月辛己，赵王宏薨。
冬十一月，苍梧、郁林、合浦蛮夷降。
translation: 
On the 13th, Youfufeng Zhongguang, Anding Prefect Du Hui, Jingzhao Huya Captain Geng Pu fought with Xianling Qiang in Dingxi City. Zhongguang and others were defeated and died in the battle.
Zuo Fengyi and Sima Jun were imprisoned and committed suicide.
On the ninth day of November, there was an earthquake in the county.
In December, the barbarians in Wulingli rebelled, and the state and county soldiers defeated them.
On the 28th, Situ Xia Qin resigned. On the 29th, Sikong Liu Kai was appointed as Situ, and Guang Luxun and Yuan Chang were appointed as Sikong.
On the 24th of the first lunar month in the third year of spring, the old ditches in Taiyuan were repaired to irrigate official and private fields.
Mu Lianli appeared in Dongpinglu newspaper.
The barbarians of Cangwu, Yulin and Hepu rebelled. In February, he sent his censor Ren Kuang to supervise the county troops to attack them.
There are ten earthquakes in the county.
On the second day of March, there is a solar eclipse.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, the officials and people in Cangwu, Yulin, Hepu, and Nanhai were pardoned for their crimes committed by thieves.
In April of summer, there was a drought in the capital.
In May, the Wuling barbarians rebelled again, and the prefectures and counties defeated them.
On the 25th, General Deng Zun of Liao Dynasty led the Southern Huns to attack the Xianling Qiang in Lingzhou and defeated them.
The foreigners on the Yuexi border led all the clan members.
In June, Zhonglang general Ren Shang sent troops to attack the Xianling Qiang in Dingxi City.
In the seventh month of autumn, the Wuling barbarians rebelled again, and the prefectures and counties defeated them.
Gou's land.
On the fifth day of September, King Zhao Liu Hong passed away.
In November of winter, Cangwu and Yulin, Hepu barbarians surrendered.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
丙戌，初听大臣、二千石、刺史行三年丧。
癸卯，郡国九地震。
十二月丁巳，任尚遣兵击破先零羌于北地。
四年春二月乙巳朔，日有食之。
乙卯，大赦天下。
壬戌，武库灾。夏四月戊申，司空袁敞薨。
己巳，鲜卑寇辽西，辽西郡兵与乌桓击破之。
五月丁丑，太常李郃为司空。
六月戊辰，三郡雨雹。
秋七月辛丑，陈王钧薨。
京师及郡国十雨水。
诏曰： 今年秋稼茂好，垂可收获，而连雨未霁，惧必淹伤。
夕惕惟忧，思念厥咎。
夫霖雨者，人怨之所致。
其武吏以威暴下，文吏妄行苛刻，乡吏因公生奸，为百姓所患苦者，有司显明其罚。
又《月令》 仲秋养衰老，授几杖，行糜粥 。
方今案比之时，郡、县多不奉行。
translation: 
On the tenth day of the lunar month, ministers, two thousand stones, and governors were allowed to observe mourning for three years.
On the 27th, there was an earthquake in the county.
On December 12, Ren Shang sent troops to defeat the Xianling Qiang in the north.
On the first day of February in the fourth year of spring, there was a solar eclipse. On the eleventh day, a general amnesty was given to the whole world.
On the 18th, the arsenal was hit by fire.
On the fifth day of April in the summer, Sikong Yuanchang passed away.
On the 26th, the Xianbei bandits raided western Liaoning, and Liaoxi commandery soldiers and Wuhuan defeated them.
On the fifth day of May, Taichang Li He was appointed Sikong.
On June 26, there was hail in the three counties.
On the 30th day of the seventh month in autumn, King Chen Liu Jun passed away.
There are ten rains in the capital and prefectures.
The edict said: This year's autumn crops are luxuriant and the harvest is about to be harvested. However, if it rains continuously and does not clear up, I am afraid of being flooded.
Be wary of fear, longing for guilt and cruelty.
The rain is falling and the rain is falling because of the resentment of the people.
Military attaches abuse their subordinates with lustful power, civil servants act harshly, and rural officials pretend to be public servants and commit adultery. This is a source of suffering and suffering for the people, and the relevant departments should publicly punish them.
It is also said in the "Moon Order": In mid-autumn, to care for the elderly, give the old man a few canes and give him rice porridge.
Now is the time for household registration verification and verification in August, but many counties do not implement it.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
虽有糜粥，糠秕相半，长吏怠事，莫有躬亲，甚违诏书养老之意。
其务崇仁恕，赈护寡独，称朕意焉。
九月，护羌校尉任尚使客刺杀叛羌零昌。
冬十一月己卯，彭城王恭薨。
十二月，赵巂夷寇遂久，杀县令。
甲子，任尚及骑都尉马贤与先零羌战于富平上河，大破之。
虔人羌率众降，陇右平。
是岁，郡国十三地震。
五年春正月，越巂夷叛。
二月壬戌，中山王宪薨。
三月，京师及郡国五旱，诏禀遭旱贫人。
夏六月，高句骊与秽貊寇玄菟。
秋七月，越巂蛮夷及旄牛豪叛，杀长吏。
丙子，诏曰： 旧令制度，各有科品，欲令百姓务崇节约。
遭永初之际，人离荒厄，朝廷躬自菲薄，去绝奢饰，食不兼味，衣无二采。
比年虽获丰穰，尚乏储积，而小人无虑，不图久长，嫁聚送终，纷华靡丽，至有走卒奴婢被绮谷，著珠玑。
translation: 
Although there is rice porridge, the chaff is half mixed, and the senior officials are lazy and do not handle it personally. It greatly violates the original intention of the imperial edict to support the elderly.
We should uphold benevolence and forgiveness, provide relief and protect the lonely, and do what I want.
In September, the Qiang Protector Colonel Ren Shang sent an assassin to kill the rebel Qiang Lingchang.
On the ninth day of the eleventh month in winter, Liu Gong, the king of Pengcheng, passed away.
In December, the Yue Yi bandits plundered Suijiu for a long time and killed the county magistrate.
On the 25th, Ren Shang and the Cavalry Commander Ma Xian fought with the Xianling Qiang on the river in Fuping and defeated them.
The pious Qiang led his troops to surrender, and Longyou was pacified.
This year, there was an earthquake in the county.
In the first month of spring of the fifth year, the Yue Yiyi rebelled.
On February 14th, King Liu Xian of Zhongshan passed away.
In March, there was a fifth drought in the capital and prefectures, and an order was issued to provide food relief to the drought-stricken poor.
In the sixth month of the summer, Gao Gouli and the Yong Sui bandits plundered Xuan Tu.
In the seventh month of autumn, the Yuexi barbarians and Yanniuhao rebelled and killed the chief officials.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, the edict said: The old order system has its own categories and levels, and its purpose is to make the people advocate thrift.
In the early years of the Yong Dynasty, people were separated and their lives were desolate. The imperial court personally wasted money and removed extravagant ornaments.
Although there have been bumper harvests in recent years, there is still little savings, and the villain has no plans and does not want to live long in the future. He gets married and ends up in the end, competing for luxury, and even traders, footmen, slaves, and servants also wear silk silk and precious jewelry.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
京师尚若斯，何以示四远？
设张法禁，恳恻分明，而有司惰任，讫不奉行。
秋节既立，鸷鸟将用，且复重申，以观后效。
八月丙申朔，日有食之。鲜卑寇代郡，杀长吏。冬十月，鲜卑寇上谷。
十二月丁巳，中郎将任尚有罪，弃市。
是岁，郡国十四地震。
六年春二月乙巳，京师及郡国四十二地震，或坼裂，水泉涌出。
壬子，诏三府选掾属高第，能惠利牧养者各五人，光禄勋与中郎将选孝廉郎宽博有谋、清白行高者五十人，出补令、长、丞、尉。
乙卯，诏曰： 夫政，先京师，后诸夏。
《月令》仲春 养幼小，存诸孤 ，季春 赐贫穷，赈乏绝，省妇使，表贞女 ，所以顺阳气，崇生长也。其赐人尤贫困、孤弱、单独谷，人三斛；贞妇有节义十斛，甄表门闾，旌显厥行。
三月庚辰，始立六宗，祀于洛城西北。
translation: 
If the capital is like this, how can it set an example for the rest of the world?
All kinds of laws and prohibitions are carefully understood, but the officials at all levels are lazy and laissez-faire and have never followed them.
Autumn is here. If you don't obey the laws, you will be punished and punished in accordance with the autumn. Now I reiterate it again to see the effect.
On the first day of August, there is a solar eclipse. The Xianbei bandits plundered Daijun and killed the chief officials. In the tenth month of winter, the Xianbei bandits raided the upper valley.
On December 18, General Zhonglang Ren was still guilty and beheaded in the city.
This year, there was an earthquake in the county.
On the twelfth day of the second month in the spring of the sixth year, there was an earthquake in the capital and prefectures, causing cracks and springs gushing out.
On the 19th, the imperial edict was issued to select five deputies each from the three palaces who belonged to noble families and could benefit the shepherds. Guang Luxun and General Zhonglang selected fifty deputies who were filial, honest, broad-minded, resourceful, and innocent in conduct to fill the positions of Ling, Chang, Cheng, and Wei.
On the 22nd, the edict stated: In politics, the capital should come first, followed by the Xia.
"Moon Order" in mid-spring is to raise the young, save orphans, in the spring of the year is to reward the poor, to provide relief to those who have no way to make a living, to reduce women's labor, and to commend loyal women. In order to regulate the yang energy and advocate growth, we now order to reward the extremely poor, lonely, and single people with three dendrobium grains each; chaste and righteous women each with ten dendrobium grains. Identify and praise the family members and praise noble virtues.
On March 18th, the six sects of the Four Directions of Heaven and Earth were established and worshiped in the northwest of Luocheng.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
夏四月，会稽大疫，遣光禄大夫将太医循行疾病，赐棺木，除田租、田赋。
沛国，勃海大风，雨雹。
五月，京师旱。
六月丁丑，乐成王宾薨。
丙戌，平原王得薨。
秋七月，鲜卑寇马城，度辽将军邓遵率南单于击破之。
九月癸巳，陈王竦薨。
十二月戊午朔，日有食之，既。
郡国八地震。是岁，永昌、益州蜀郡夷叛，与越巂夷杀长吏，燔城邑，益州刺史张乔讨破降之。
永宁元年春正月甲辰，任城王安薨。
三月丁酉，济北王寿薨。
车师后王叛，杀部司马。
沈氐羌寇张掖。
夏四月丙寅，立皇子保为皇太子，改元永宁，大赦天下。
赐王、主、三公、列侯下至郎吏、从官金、帛；又赐民爵及布、粟各有差。
己巳，绍封陈王羡子崇为陈王，济北王子苌为乐成王，河间王子翼为平原王。
壬午，琅邪王寿薨。
六月，沈氐种羌叛，寇张掖，护羌校尉马贤讨沈氐羌，破之。
translation: 
In April of summer, there was an epidemic in Kuaiji, so Dr. Guanglu was sent to lead the imperial doctors to treat the disease. Those who died were rewarded with coffins and exempted from land rent and oral taxes.
There were strong winds and hail in Peiguo and Bohai.
In May, there was a drought in the capital.
On June 17, the successful king Liu Bin passed away.
On the 26th, Liu De, king of Pingyuan, passed away.
In the seventh month of autumn, the Xianbei bandits plundered Macheng, and Deng Zun, the general from Liao Dynasty, led Nan Shanyu to defeat them.
On the fourth day of September, King Chen Liu Song passed away.
On the first day of December, there was a solar eclipse, and there were earthquakes in the country.
In this year, Yizhou Yizhou rebelled, and Yuexi Yi killed the officials and burned the city. Zhang Qiao, the governor of Yizhou, defeated him and surrendered.
On the seventeenth day of the first spring of the first year of Yongning, Liu An, the king of Rencheng, passed away.
On March 11th, King Liu Shou of Jibei passed away.
The queen of the chariot division rebelled and killed his commander.
The Shen Di and Qiang bandits raided Zhangye.
On the 11th day of April in the summer, Prince Bao was made the crown prince, his reign was changed to Yongning, and the whole country was granted amnesty.
Rewards were given to kings, dukes, three princes, nobles, down to Lang officials, and subordinate officials, gold and silk; they were also given to civilians and nobles, as well as cloth and grain.
On the 14th, the imperial edict conferred the title of King Chen, Liu Xianzi Liu Chong, as King of Chen, Prince Liu Chang of Jibei as King of Success, and Prince Liu Yi of Hejian as King of Pingyuan.
On the 27th, Langyi King Liu Shou passed away.
In June, the Shen Di Qiang rebelled and invaded Zhangye. The Qiang Protector Ma Xian attacked the Shen Di Qiang and defeated him.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
秋七月乙酉朔，日有食之。冬十月己巳，司空李郃免。
癸酉，卫尉庐江陈褒为司空。
自三月至是月，京师及郡国三十三大风，雨水。
十二月，永昌徼外掸国谴使贡献。
戊辰，司徒刘恺罢。
辽西鲜卑降。
癸酉，太常杨震为司徒。
是岁，郡国二十三地震。
夫馀王遣子诣阙贡献。
烧当羌叛。
建光元年春正月，幽州刺史冯焕率二郡太守讨高句骊、秽貊，不克。
二月癸亥，大赦天下。
赐诸园贵人、王、主、公、卿以下钱、布各有差。
以公、卿、校尉、尚书子弟一人为郎、舍人。
三月癸巳，皇太后邓氏崩。
丙午，葬和熹皇后。
丁未，乐安王宠薨。
戊申，追尊皇考清河孝王曰孝德皇。皇妣左氏曰孝德皇后，祖妣宋贵人曰敬隐皇后。
夏四月，秽貊复与鲜卑寇辽东，辽东太守蔡讽追击，战殁。
丙辰，以广川并清河国。
translation: 
On the first day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, there is a solar eclipse. On October 16th in winter, Sikong Li He was dismissed from his post.
On the 20th, Wei Wei Lujiang Chen Bao was appointed Sikong.
From March to this month, there were strong winds and heavy rains in the capital and prefectures.
In December, the Shan State sent envoys to pay tribute outside Yongchang.
On the 16th, Situ Liu Kai left.
Xianbei in western Liaoning surrendered.
On the 21st, Taichang Yang Zhen was appointed Situ.
This year, there were twenty-three earthquakes in the county.
King Fuyu sent his son to the imperial palace to pay tribute.
Shaodang Qiang rebelled.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Jianguang, Feng Huan, the governor of Youzhou, led the prefects of the two counties to attack Gaoguli and Xiaosuibao, but they failed to defeat them.
On the twelfth day of the second lunar month, there was a general amnesty.
Rewards to nobles, kings, dukes, lords, and ministers in various gardens vary in money and silk.
Take one of the sons of the Duke, Qing, Xiaowei and Shangshu as the Lang and Sheren.
On March 13, Empress Dowager Deng passed away.
On the 26th, Queen Hexi was buried.
On the 27th, Liu Kuan, King of Le'an, passed away.
On the 28th, Emperor Zhuizun named King Xiao of Qinghe as King of Xiaode, his concubine Zuo as Queen of Xiaode, and his ancestral concubine Song Gui as Queen of Jingyin.
In the fourth month of the summer, Sui Sui and the Xianbei bandits again raided Liaodong. Cai Xi, the prefect of Liaodong, pursued them and died in battle.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, Guangchuan was merged into Qinghe Kingdom.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
丁巳，尊孝德皇元妃耿氏为甘陵大贵人。
甲子，乐成王苌有罪，废为临湖侯。
己巳，令公、卿、特进、侯、中二千石、二千石、郡国守相，举有道之士各一人。赐鳏、寡、孤、独、贫不能自存者谷，人三斛。
甲戌，辽东属国都尉庞奋，承伪玺书杀玄菟太守姚光。
五月庚辰，特进邓骘及度辽将军邓遵，并以谮自杀。
丙申，贬平原王翼为都乡侯。
秋七月己卯，改元建光，大赦天下。
壬寅，太尉马英薨。
八月，护羌校尉马贤讨烧当羌于金城，不利。
甲子，前司徒刘恺为太尉。
鲜卑寇居庸关，九月，云中太守成严击之，战殁。
鲜卑围乌桓校尉于马城，度辽将军耿夔救之。
戊子，幸卫尉冯石府。
是秋，京师及郡国二十九雨水。
冬十一月己丑，郡国三十五地震，或坼裂。
诏三公以下，各上封事陈得失。遣光禄大夫案行，赐死者钱，人二千。
translation: 
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Geng, the imperial concubine of Xiaode Emperor and Yuan Dynasty, was honored as a noble person in Ganling.
On the 14th, Liu Chang, the successful king, was found guilty and was deposed as Linhu Marquis.
On the 19th, the Duke, Qing, Te Jin, Hou, Zhong 2,000 shi, 2,000 shi, and the prime minister of the prefecture and state were ordered to recommend one virtuous person each, and each of the widowed, widowed, lonely, lonely, and poor people were given three dendrobium grains.
On the 24th, Pang Fen, the captain of the Liaodong vassal state, accepted the forged seal to kill Yao Guang, the prefect of Xuantu.
On the first day of the fifth lunar month, Deng Zun, the special advancer, and Deng Zun, the general who conquered the Liao Dynasty, both committed suicide due to false accusations.
On the 17th, Liu Yi, the king of Pingyuan, was demoted to the title of duxianghou.
On the first day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Jianguang, and the world was amnesty.
On the 14th, Taiwei Ma Ying passed away.
In August, the Qiang Protector Colonel Ma Xian attacked the Shaodang Qiang in Jincheng, but the battle was unfavorable.
On the 16th, former Situ Liu Kai was appointed Taiwei.
The Xianbei invaders Juyongguan, in September, the prefect of Yunzhong attacked Xianbei severely and died in battle.
Xianbei surrounded Colonel Wuhuan in Macheng, and Geng Kui, the general from Liao Dynasty, went to rescue him.
Wuzi, the emperor arrived at Weiwei Feng Shi's mansion.
In the autumn of this year, there was heavy rain in the capital and prefectures.
On the twelfth day of the eleventh month in winter, there was an earthquake on the 35th day of the month.
The imperial edict was issued to everyone below the three Dukes to secretly write criticisms and suggestions, discuss the pros and cons, and send Dr. Guanglu to inspect the situation, and reward each person who died with two thousand coins.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
除今年田租。
其被灾甚者，勿收口赋。
鲜卑寇玄菟。
庚子，复断大臣二千石以上服三年丧。
癸卯，诏三公、特进、侯、卿、校尉，举武猛堪将帅者各五人。
丙午，诏京师及郡国被水雨份稼者，随顷亩减田租。
甲子，初置渔阳营兵。
冬十二月，高句骊、马韩、秽貊围玄菟城，夫馀王遣子与州、郡并力讨破之。
延光元年春二月，夫馀王遣子将兵救玄菟，击高句骊、马韩、秽貊，破之，遂遣使贡献。
三月丙午，改元延光。
大赦天下。
还徙者，复户邑属籍。
赐民爵及三老、孝悌、力田，人二级；加赐鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃、贫不能自存者粟，人三斛；贞妇帛，人二匹。
夏四月癸未，京师郡国二十一雨雹。
癸巳，司空陈褒免。
五月庚戌，宗正彭城刘授为司空。
translation: 
This year’s field rent will be waived.
Those hit hardest by the disaster will be exempted from the population tax.
The Xianbei bandits plundered Xuantu.
On the 23rd, the ministers were ordered to serve three years of mourning for more than two thousand dan.
On the 26th, he ordered Sangong, Tejin, Hou, Qing, and Xiaowei to recommend five warriors each who were worthy of being generals.
On the 29th, the imperial capital and prefectures were ordered to reduce their land rent by acres if their crops were damaged by floods.
Jiazi, the Yuyang camp was first set up.
In the twelfth month of winter, Gaoguli, Ma Han, and Shuosuibao besieged Xuantu City. King Fuyu sent his son to join forces with the prefectures and counties to defeat them.
In the spring and February of the first year of Yanguang, King Fuyu sent his son to lead the army to rescue Xuantu, attacked Gaoguli, Mahan, and Shuosuibao, and defeated them, so he sent an envoy to pay tribute.
On the second day of March, it was changed to Yanguang.
Amnesty to the world.
Those who have returned and migrated will have their household registration and place of residence restored.
Each of the nobles, elders, filial piety, and Litian will be given a second level of reward; each of the widowers, widows, orphans, singles, terminally ill, and too poor to survive will be given three dendrobiums of millet; and each chaste woman will be given two bolts of silk.
On the ninth day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, hail fell in twenty-one places in the capital.
On the 19th, Sikong Chen Bao was dismissed from office.
On the seventh day of the fifth lunar month, Liu Shou, Zongzheng of Pengcheng, was appointed Sikong.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
己巳，改乐成国为安平，封河间王开子得为安平王。
六月，郡国蝗。
秋七月癸卯，京师及郡国十三地震。
高句骊降。
虔人羌叛，攻谷罗城，度辽将军耿夔讨破之。
八月戊子，阳陵园寝火。
辛卯，九真言黄龙见无功。
己亥，诏三公、中二千石，举刺史、二千石、令、长、相，视事一岁以上至十岁，清白爱利、能赖身率下、防奸理烦、有益于人者，无拘官簿。刺史举所部，郡国太守、相举墨绶，隐亲悉心，勿取浮华。
九月甲戌，郡国二十七地震。
冬十月，鲜卑寇雁门、定襄。
十一月，鲜卑寇太原。
烧光羌豪降。
十二月，九真徼外蛮夷贡献内属。
是岁，京师及郡国二十七雨水，大风，杀人。
诏赐压、溺死者年七岁以上钱，人二千；其坏败庐舍、失亡谷食，粟，人三斛；又田被淹伤者，一切勿收田租；若一家皆被灾害而弱小存者，郡、县为收敛之。
虔人羌反，攻谷罗城，度辽将军耿夔讨破之。
二年春正月，旄牛夷叛，寇灵关，杀县令。
益州刺史蜀郡西部都尉讨之。
诏选三署郎及吏人能通《古文尚书》、《毛诗》、《谷梁春秋》各一人。
丙辰，河东、颍川大风。
translation: 
On the 26th, he changed the name of Lecheng State to Anping, and named Liu De, King of Hejian, Liu Kaizi as King of Anping.
In June, there was a locust plague in the county.
On the first day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, there was an earthquake on the 13th in the capital and prefectures.
Gaogouli surrendered.
The Qiang rebelled and attacked Guluo City. Geng Kui, the general from Liao Dynasty, defeated them.
On August 16, a fire broke out in the Yanglingyuan dormitory.
On the 19th, Jiuzhen said that Huanglong was in vain.
On the 27th, the imperial edict was issued to three men, two thousand stones, and to recommend the governor, two thousand stones, the order, the chief, and the prime minister. They should be from one to ten years old, be honest and love the people and benefit the people, be diligent and efficient, prevent treachery and complicated arrangements, and be beneficial to others. People who are beneficial to others are not necessarily promoted according to the rules, but can be promoted by leaps and bounds. The governor recommends his subordinates, and the prefect of the county recommends Mo Shou. He does not express himself, is devoted to official duties, and is not a flashy person.
In the ninth month of Jiaxu, there was an earthquake on the twenty-seventh day of the month.
In the tenth month of winter, the Xianbei bandits raided Yanmen and Dingxiang.
In November, Xianbei invaded Taiyuan.
Shaodang Qiang leader surrendered.
In December, the barbarians outside the Jiuzhen border paid tribute.
This year, there were twenty-seven rains, strong winds, and murders in the capital and prefectures.
The edict ordered a reward of 2,000 yuan for each person over seven years old who died of crushing and drowning; three husks of millet for each person who lost food because of the damage to the house; and if the rice field was flooded, no rent would be collected; if a family was affected by the disaster and only a weak one was left, the county would collect the deceased for burial.
The Qiang people attacked Guluo City, and Geng Kui, the general from Liao Dynasty, attacked and defeated them.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, the Yanniu barbarians rebelled. The bandits looted Lingguan and killed the county magistrate.
The governor of Yizhou, the western commander of Shu County, attacked them.
The imperial edict was ordered to select one person each from the Third Office and the other officials who were proficient in "Old Classics", "Mao Shi", and "Gu Liang Chun Qiu".
On the 16th, strong winds occurred in Hedong and Yingchuan.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
夏六月壬午，郡国十一大风。
九真言嘉禾生。
丙申，北海王普薨。
秋七月，丹阳山崩。
八月庚午，初令三署郎通达经术任牧民者，视事三岁以上，皆得察举。
九月，郡国五雨水。
冬十月辛未，太尉刘恺罢。
甲戌，司徒杨震为太尉，光禄勋东莱刘憙为司徒。
十一月甲辰，校猎上林苑。
鲜卑败南匈奴于曼柏。
是岁，分蜀郡西部为属国都尉。
京师及郡国三地震。
三年春二月丙子，东巡狩。
丁丑，告陈留太守，祠南顿君、光武皇帝于济阳，复济阳今年田租、刍稿。
庚寅，遣使者祠唐尧于成阳。
戊子，济南上言，凤皇集台县丞霍收舍树上。
赐台长帛五十匹、丞二十匹、尉半之、吏卒人三匹。
凤皇所过亭部，无出今年田租。
赐男子爵，人二级。
translation: 
On the 15th day of the sixth lunar month in summer, there was a strong wind in the county.
Jiuzhen reports on the growth of Jiahe.
On the 29th, Liu Pu, King of Beihai, passed away.
In the seventh month of autumn, a landslide occurred in Danyang.
On the fourth day of August, officials from the third department were ordered to inspect and recommend those who were proficient in classics and able to govern the country and manage the people.
In September, there is rain in the county.
On the sixth day of the tenth lunar month in winter, Taiwei Liu Kai left.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Situ Yang Zhen was appointed as Taiwei, and Guang Luxun, Donglai Liu Xi, was appointed as Situ.
On the ninth day of November, the Imperial School goes to Linyuan for hunting.
Xianbei defeated the Southern Xiongnu at Manbai.
In this year, the western part of Shu was divided into the vassal capital.
Three earthquakes occurred in the capital and prefectures.
On February 13th in the spring of the third year, the emperor inspected the east.
On the 14th, he informed the prefect Chenliu to offer sacrifices to Lord Nandun and Emperor Guangwu in Jiyang, and to exempt Jiyang from the land rent and draft manuscripts this year.
On the 27th, an envoy was sent to worship Tang Yao in Chengyang.
On the 25th, Jinan reported that phoenixes gathered on the tree where Cheng Huo lived in Tai County.
As a reward, fifty pieces of silk were given to the magistrate of Tai County, twenty pieces to the chief minister, half to the lieutenants, and three pieces to each of the officials and soldiers.
The pavilions and government offices where passersby stop by Phoenix are exempt from paying this year's land rent.
Grant the men a second level of peerage.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
辛卯，幸太山，柴告岱宗。
齐王无忌、北海王翼、乐安王延来朝。
壬辰，宗祀五帝于汶上明堂。
癸巳，告祀二祖、六宗，劳赐郡、县，作乐。
三月甲午，陈王崇薨。
戊戌，祀孔子及七十二弟子于阙里，自鲁相、令、丞、尉及孔氏亲属、妇女、诸生悉会，赐褒成侯以下帛各有差。
还，幸东平，至东郡，历魏郡、河内。
壬戌，车驾还京师，幸太学。
是日，太尉杨震免。
夏四月乙丑，车驾入宫，假于祖祢。
壬戌，沛国言甘露降丰县。
戊辰，光禄勋冯石为太尉。
五月，南匈奴左曰逐王叛，使匈奴中郎将马翼讨破之。
曰南徼外蛮夷内属。
六月，鲜卑寇玄菟。
庚午，阆中山崩。
辛未，扶风言白鹿见雍。
辛巳，遣侍御史分行青、冀二州灾害，督录盗贼。
秋七月丁酉，初复右校、左校令丞官。
日南徼外蛮豪帅诣阙贡献。
冯翊言甘露降频阳、衙。
translation: 
On the 28th, the emperor went to Mount Tai and watched Daizong burn firewood to the sky.
King Liu Wuji of Qi, King Liu Yi of Beihai, and King Liu Yan of Le'an came to pay homage.
On the 29th, the Five Emperors were worshiped at Wenshang Mingtang.
On the 30th day, the two ancestors Gaozu and Guangwu were worshiped, and the six sects Xiaowen, Xiaowu, Xiaoxuan, Xiaoyuan, Xiaoming and Xiaozhang were worshiped, and the counties and counties were comforted and rewarded.
On the first day of March, King Chen Liu Chong passed away.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Confucius and his seventy-two disciples were sacrificed in the palace. Prime Ministers of Lu, Lings, Prime Ministers, Lieutenants, relatives of the Confucius family, women, and all living beings all participated in the gathering. They were rewarded with silks ranging from the following to the Marquis of Praise.
After returning, the emperor went to Dongping and Dongjun, passing through Weijun and Hanoi.
On the 29th, the emperor returned to the capital and went to Taixue.
On this day, Taiwei Yang Zhen was dismissed from his post.
On the second day of the fourth lunar month in summer, the emperor entered the palace and went to the main temple of Father God.
In Renxu, Peiguo reported that Feng County had received timely rain.
He appointed Guang Luxun and Feng Shi as Taiwei.
In May, King Zuo Rizhu of the Southern Xiongnu rebelled and sent Ma Yi, the general of the Xiongnu Zhonglang, to defeat him.
The barbarians are surrounding Japan's southern border.
In June, Xianbei invaded Xuantu.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, a landslide occurred in Langzhong.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Fufeng reported that the white deer appeared in Yong.
On the 19th, the imperial censor was sent to inspect the disasters in Qingzhou and Jizhou respectively. Urging the thieves to be arrested.
On the sixth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, the right and left schools began to be restored to the prime minister.
Many powerful and handsome men from outside Japan came to the palace to pay tribute.
Feng Yi reported to Pinyang and Yamen that there was timely rain.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
颍川上言木连理。
白鹿、麒麟见阳翟。鲜卑寇高柳。
梁王坚薨。
八月辛已，大鸿胪耿宝为大将军。
戊子，颍川上言麒麟一、白虎二见阳翟。
九月丁酉，废皇太子保为济阴王。
乙巳，诏郡国中都官死罪系囚减罪一等，诣敦煌、陇西及度辽营；其右趾以下及亡命者赎，各有差。
壬午，新丰上言凤皇集西界亭。
丁亥，会三辅守、令、掾史于长安，作乐。
闰月乙未，祠高庙，遂有事十一陵，历观上林、昆明池。
遣使者祠太上皇于万年，以中牢祠萧何、曹参、霍光。
十一月乙丑，至自长安。
十二月乙未，琅邪言黄龙见诸县。
是岁，京师及郡国二十三地震；三十六雨水，疾风，雨雹。
四年春正月壬午，东郡言黄龙二、麒麟一见濮阳。
二月乙亥，下邳王衍薨。
translation: 
Yingchuan reports that the trees are growing together.
White deer and unicorn appeared in Yangzhai. The Xianbei bandits plundered Gaoliu.
Liu Jian, King of Liang, passed away.
On August 20th, Dahong Gengbao was appointed as the general.
On the 27th, Yingchuan reported the appearance of a unicorn and two white tigers in Yangzhai.
On the seventh day of September, Liu Bao, the deposed crown prince, was made King of Jiyin.
On the 15th, the imperial edict was issued to all the officials in the prefecture and state to reduce the penalty of one degree for those convicted of capital crimes, and to send them to Dunhuang, Longxi and Duliao camps.
On the 21st, Jinan reported that a yellow dragon appeared in Licheng. On the 30th, there is a solar eclipse. In the tenth month of winter, the emperor arrived in Chang'an. On the 22nd, Xinfeng reported that there were phoenixes flying in the West boundary pavilion.
On the 27th, the three assistants, Shou, Ling and Shi, were gathered in Chang'an to have fun.
On the sixth day of the intercalated lunar month, worship at the Gaomiao Temple, the Eleven Tombs, and visit Shanglin and Kunming Pool.
Envoys were sent to worship the Supreme Emperor in ten thousand years, and pigs and sheep were sacrificed to Xiao He, Cao Shen, and Huo Guang.
On the sixth day of November, the emperor returned to the palace from Chang'an.
On the seventh day of the twelfth lunar month, Langfu reported the appearance of yellow dragons in various counties.
This year, there were twenty-three earthquakes in the capital and prefectures; thirty-six rains, strong winds, and hail.
On the twenty-fourth day of the first lunar month in the fourth year of spring, Dongjun reported that Huang Long Er and Qilin Yi appeared in Puyang.
In the second month of Yihai, Liu Yan, the king of Xiapi, passed away.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
甲辰，南巡狩。
三月戊午朔，日有食之。
庚申，幸宛，帝不豫。辛酉，令大将军耿宝行太尉事。
祠章陵园庙，告长沙、零陵太守，祠定王、节侯、郁林府君。
乙丑，自宛还。
丁卯，幸叶，帝崩于乘舆，年三十二。
秘不敢宣，所在上食问起居如故。
庚午，还宫。
辛未夕，乃发丧。
尊皇后为皇太后。太后临朝，以后兄大鸿胪阎显为车骑将军，定策禁中，立章帝孙济北惠王寿子北乡侯懿。
甲戌，济南王香薨。
乙酉，北乡侯即皇帝位。
夏四月丁酉，太尉冯石为太傅，司徒刘熹为太尉，参录尚书事；前司空李郃为司徒。
辛卯，大将军耿宝、中常侍樊丰、侍中谢惲、周广、乳母野王君王圣，坐相阿党，丰、惲、广下狱死，宝自杀，圣徙雁门。
己酉，葬孝安皇帝于恭陵。庙曰恭宗。
六月乙巳，大赦天下。
诏先帝巡狩所幸，皆半入今年田租。
秋七月，西域长史班勇击车师后王，斩之。
丙午，东海王肃薨。
冬十月丙午，越巂山崩。
辛亥，少帝薨。
是冬，京师大疫。
translation: 
On the 17th, the emperor inspected the south. On the first day of March, there is a solar eclipse.
On the third day of the lunar month, the emperor arrived in Wan and felt unwell.
On the fourth day of the Lunar New Year, General Geng Bao was ordered to act as the Taiwei.
Offer sacrifices to Zhanglingyuan Temple, sue the governors of Changsha and Lingling, and offer sacrifices to King Ding, Marquis Jie, and Lord Yulinfu.
The Eighth Emperor of Chu returned from Wan.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, the emperor arrived and died in Chengyu at the age of thirty-two.
I dare not reveal the secret. Wherever I go, I ask questions about food and daily life.
On the 13th, he returned to the palace.
On the evening of the 14th, there was a funeral.
The queen was respected as the empress dowager, and the empress dowager was in charge of the court. Later, her brother Da Honglu Yanxian was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry. In the palace, Zhang Emperor's grandson Jibei Hui Wang Liu Shouzi and Beixiang Hou Liu Yi were made emperor.
On the 17th, King Liu Xiang of Jinan passed away.
On the 28th, the Marquis of Beixiang became emperor.
On April 11th in the summer, Taiwei Feng Shi was appointed as Taifu, and Situ Liu Xi was appointed as Taiwei. They participated in the affairs of the general secretary; Li He, the former Sikong, was appointed as Situ.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, the general Geng Bao, the sergeant Fan Feng, the sergeant Xie Yun, Zhou Guang, and the wet nurse Yewang Wang Sheng all died in prison due to cliques and conspiracy. Geng Bao committed suicide, and Wang Sheng was sent to Yanmen.
On the 23rd, Emperor Xiaoan was buried in Gongling Mausoleum and the temple name was Gongzong.
On June 20th, there was a general amnesty.
The late emperor ordered that wherever he visited during his inspection, half of the land rent for this year would be paid.
In the seventh month of autumn, Shi Banyong, the governor of the Western Regions, attacked the Queen of Che Division and killed him.
On the 21st, Liu Su, King of East China Sea, passed away.
On October 22nd in winter, the Yuexun Mountain collapsed.
On the 27th, the young emperor passed away.
In the winter of this year, there was an epidemic in the capital.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
论曰：孝安虽称尊享御，而权归邓氏，至乃损彻膳服，克念政道。
然令自房帷，威不逮远，始失根统，归成陵敝。遂复计金授官，移民逃寇，推咎台衡，以答天眚。
既云哲妇，亦 惟家之索 矣。
赞曰：安德不升，秕我王度。
降夺储嫡，开萌邪蠹。
冯石承欢，杨公逢怒。
彼日而微，遂祲天路。
translation: 
Historians commented: Although Emperor An claimed to rule the world, the power was in the hands of Empress Dowager Deng, so she had little food and clothing, so she could devote herself to government affairs.
However, the order came from the palace curtain, and its prestige could not be reached far away. It began to lose its roots, and finally formed a situation of decline of the Han Dynasty. It was actually included in the Qian Valley official selling the title, immigrating inland to escape the Qiang bandits, and blaming the Three Gongs to answer God's fault.
This is the so-called wise man who conquers the city, the wise wife who conquers the city, and the cows and seven chickens that make up the morning. The country must be in decline.
Historians praised him and said: Emperor An's moral conduct was not high, and he was not good at politics and religion.
He established the crown prince and then dismissed him, giving the green light to Jiang Jing and others' evil behavior.
He was particularly favored by Wei Wei Feng Shi and was appointed as Taifu.
He also listened to Fan Feng's slander and dismissed Taiwei Yang Zhen.


