Chunk 0: 
original: 
周后稷，名弃。
其母有邰氏女，曰姜原。
姜原为帝喾元妃。
姜原出野，见巨人迹，心忻然说，欲践之，践之而身动如孕者。
居期而生子，以为不祥，弃之隘巷，马牛过者皆辟不践；徙置之林中，適会山林多人，迁之；而弃渠中冰上，飞鸟以其翼覆荐之。
姜原以为神，遂收养长之。
初欲弃之，因名曰弃。
弃为兒时，屹如巨人之志。
其游戏，好种树麻、菽，麻、菽美。
及为成人，遂好耕农，相地之宜，宜穀者稼穑焉，民皆法则之。
帝尧闻之，举弃为农师，天下得其利，有功。
帝舜曰： 弃，黎民始饥，尔后稷播时百穀。
封弃於邰，号曰后稷，别姓姬氏。
后稷之兴，在陶唐、虞、夏之际，皆有令德。
后稷卒，子不窋立。
不窋末年，夏后氏政衰，去稷不务，不窋以失其官而饹戎狄之间。
translation: 
Hou Ji, the ancestor of the Zhou Dynasty, was named Qi.
His mother was a woman of Tai family named Jiang Yuan.
Jiang Yuan was the emperor's concubine.
Jiang Yuan went out to the countryside and saw a giant footprint. He was so happy that he wanted to step on it. When he stepped on it, he felt his body vibrating as if he was pregnant.
When they were ten months old, they gave birth to a son. Jiang Yuan thought that the child was unlucky, so he threw him into a narrow alley, but horses and cows passed by him and avoided stepping on him, so he threw him in the woods. There were many people in the woods, so he moved to another place.
Jiang Yuan thought this was so magical, so he took him back and raised him as a human being.
Since I wanted to throw him away at first, I named him Abandoned.
When Qi was a child, he had the lofty ambitions of a great man.
When he was playing games, he liked to plant hemp and beans, and the hemp and beans he planted grew very luxuriantly.
When he grew up, he liked farming. He could observe the characteristics of the land and choose suitable grains to plant. The people followed his example.
When Emperor Yao heard about these things, he appointed Qi as a farmer to teach people how to grow crops. People all over the world benefited from this, and he made great contributions.
Emperor Shun said: "Sir, the people were suffering from hunger, thanks to you being the Houji to sow all kinds of grains."
Therefore, the enfeoffment was abandoned in Tai, known as Houji, and Ji was the surname.
Hou Ji is famous because during the Tao, Tang, Yu, and Xia generations, this family was very virtuous.
After Hou Ji died, his son Buchu succeeded to the throne.
In Buchu's later years, the Xia Hou family's state affairs declined, and they gave up the official post of Houji and no longer paid attention to agriculture. Buchu fled to the Rongdi area because he lost his official position.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
不窋卒，子鞠立。
鞠卒，子公刘立。
公刘虽在戎狄之间，复脩后稷之业，务耕种，行地宜，自漆、沮度渭，取材用，行者有资，居者有畜积，民赖其庆。
百姓怀之，多徙而保归焉。
周道之兴自此始，故诗人歌乐思其德。
公刘卒，子庆节立，国於豳。
庆节卒，子皇仆立。
皇仆卒，子差弗立。
差弗卒，子毁隃立。
毁隃卒，子公非立。
公非卒，子高圉立。
高圉卒，子亚圉立。
亚圉卒，子公叔祖类立。
公叔祖类卒，子古公亶父立。
古公亶父复脩后稷、公刘之业，积德行义，国人皆戴之。
薰育戎狄攻之，欲得财物，予之。
已复攻，欲得地与民。
民皆怒，欲战。
translation: 
After Bucheng died, his son Ju succeeded to the throne.
After Ju's death, his son Gong Liu succeeded to the throne.
Although Gong Liu was in the Rong and Di, he resumed the business of repairing Houji's foundation, engaged in farming, and planted crops according to the cultivation characteristics of the land. He crossed the Wei River from Qishui and Ju Rivers, felled and obtained timber for use, so that those who went out had travel expenses, those at home had savings, and the people's lives improved thanks to him.
The people were grateful and loved him, and many moved to join him.
The great prosperity of Zhou Dynasty's statecraft started from here, so poets composed poems and music to praise and commemorate his kindness.
After Gong Liu died, his son Qingjie succeeded to the throne and established the capital in Bin.
After Qingjie's death, his son Huangpu succeeded to the throne.
After the death of the imperial servant, his son Chafu succeeded to the throne.
After Chafu's death, his son Ruihe succeeded to the throne.
After the death of Ruihe, his son Gongfei succeeded to the throne.
After Gong Fei's death, his son Gao Yu succeeded to the throne.
After Gao Yu's death, his son Ya Yu succeeded to the throne.
After Yayu's death, his son Gongshu Zulei succeeded to the throne.
After the death of Gongshu Zulei, his son Gu Gongdanfu succeeded to the throne.
Gu Gongdanfu re-established the foundations of Houji and Gongliu, accumulated virtues, and spread benevolence and righteousness. The people in the capital all supported him.
Xunyu and other Rongdi tribes came to attack them and wanted to plunder their property, so Gu Gong and Danfu gave it to them.
Soon after, the Rongdi tribe came to attack again, wanting to get the land and people.
The people were very angry and wanted to go out and fight.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
古公曰： 有民立君，将以利之。
今戎狄所为攻战，以吾地与民。
民之在我，与其在彼，何异。
民欲以我故战，杀人父子而君之，予不忍为。
乃与私属遂去豳，度漆、沮，逾梁山，止於岐下。
豳人举国扶老携弱，尽复归古公於岐下。
及他旁国闻古公仁，亦多归之。
於是古公乃贬戎狄之俗，而营筑城郭室屋，而邑别居之。
作五官有司。民皆歌乐之，颂其德。
古公有长子曰太伯，次曰虞仲。
太姜生少子季历，季历娶太任，皆贤妇人，生昌，有圣瑞。
古公曰： 我世当有兴者，其在昌乎？
长子太伯、虞仲知古公欲立季历以传昌，乃二人亡如荆蛮，文身断发，以让季历。
古公卒，季历立，是为公季。
公季脩古公遗道，笃於行义，诸侯顺之。
translation: 
Gu Gong said: The people support the monarch because they want him to seek benefits for everyone.
Now Rong and Di are coming to invade, with the purpose of wanting my land and people.
What difference does it make if the people follow me or follow them?
The people went to war because of me and relied on fathers, sons and brothers who sacrificed the people to be the monarch. I really couldn't bear to do this.
So Gu Gongdanfu and his relatives left Bin, crossed Qishui and Jushui, crossed Liangshan, and settled at the foot of Qishan.
And all the people in Bindi brought their old and young to the foot of Qishan Mountain, and all returned to Gu Gong's side.
Nearby countries heard that the ancient Duke was benevolent, and many people came to follow him.
So Gu Gong abandoned the customs of Rong and Di, built cities and houses, and set up towns for the people to settle down.
Five official offices were established: Situ, Sima, Sikong, Sushi, and Sikou. The people composed poems and music to praise him and praise his kindness.
The eldest son of Duke Gu was called Taibo, and the second son was called Yu Zhong.
Taijiang gave birth to a younger son, Ji Li, who married Tairen. Both Taijiang and Tairen were virtuous wives. Tairen gave birth to a prosperous son, which was a sign of sagehood.
Gu Gong said: My descendants will achieve great things, probably Chang, right?
The eldest son Taibo and Yu Zhong knew that Gu Gong wanted to establish Ji Li so that he could pass on to Chang in the future, so they fled to Jingman, got tattoos on their bodies, cut their hair short, and gave way to Ji Li.
After the death of Gu Gong, Ji Li succeeded to the throne and became Gong Ji.
Gong Ji practiced the way of governing the country left by the ancient Duke and resolutely implemented benevolence and righteousness, and the princes all obeyed him.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
公季卒，子昌立，是为西伯。
西伯曰文王，遵后稷、公刘之业，则古公、公季之法，笃仁，敬老，慈少。
礼下贤者，日中不暇食以待士，士以此多归之。
伯夷、叔齐在孤竹，闻西伯善养老，盍往归之。
太颠、闳夭、散宜生、鬻子、辛甲大夫之徒皆往归之。
崇侯虎谮西伯於殷纣曰： 西伯积善累德，诸侯皆向之，将不利於帝。
帝纣乃囚西伯於羑里。
闳夭之徒患之。乃求有莘氏美女，骊戎之文马，有熊九驷，他奇怪物，因殷嬖臣费仲而献之纣。
纣大说，曰： 此一物足以释西伯，况其多乎！
乃赦西伯，赐之弓矢斧钺，使西伯得征伐。
曰： 谮西伯者，崇侯虎也。
西伯乃献洛西之地，以请纣去砲格之刑。
纣许之。
西伯阴行善，诸侯皆来决平。
於是虞、芮之人有狱不能决，乃如周。
入界，耕者皆让畔，民俗皆让长。
虞、芮之人未见西伯，皆惭，相谓曰： 吾所争，周人所耻，何往为，祇取辱耳。
遂还，俱让而去。
诸侯闻之，曰 西伯盖受命之君 。
明年，伐犬戎。
明年，伐密须。
translation: 
After Gong Ji died, his son Chang succeeded to the throne and became Xibo.
Xibo was called King Wen. He inherited the cause of Hou Ji and Gong Liu, followed the laws of Gu Gong and Gong Ji, practiced benevolence and righteousness, respected the elderly, and was kind to the young.
He treated the wise men with courtesy. In order to receive the wise men, he sometimes did not bother to eat at noon, so the scholars all attached themselves to him.
Boyi and Shuqi were in Guzhu country. They heard that Xibo was very respectful and took care of the elderly, so they went together to join Xibo.
Tai Dian, Hong Yao, San Yisheng, Huan Zi, Xin Jia and other officials also went to submit to him.
Chonghou Hu spoke ill of Xibo in front of King Zhou of Yin: Xibo has accumulated virtues and done good deeds, and all the princes have submitted to him, which will be detrimental to you.
So Yin Zhou imprisoned Xibo in Youli.
Hong Yao and others were very worried about Xi Bo, and tried their best to find beauties from the Xin family, colorful horses from the Lirong region, nine carriages from the Xiong Kingdom, and various other rare treasures, and presented them to King Zhou through Fei Zhongjin, a favored minister of the Yin Shang Dynasty.
King Zhou was very happy and said: "Anything in this is enough for me to free Xibo, not to mention there are so many other good things!"
So he pardoned Count Xi and gave him bows, arrows, axes and axes, giving him the right to conquer the neighboring princes.
King Zhou told Xibo: The person who framed Xibo was Chonghou Hu.
After Xibo returned home, he offered the land west of Luoshui and asked Zhou to abolish the criminal law of Paoluo.
Zhou agreed to him.
Xibo secretly did good deeds, and the princes came to ask him to judge right and wrong.
At that time, people from Yu and Rui had lawsuits that could not be adjudicated, so they went to Zhou.
They entered the realm of Zhou and saw that those who farmed fields gave way to each other, and the people regarded humility as a virtue.
Before the people of Yu and Rui saw Xibo, they felt ashamed and said to each other: "What we are fighting for is what the people of Zhou are ashamed of. Why are we going to do it? We are just bringing shame on ourselves."
So they returned and left with humility to each other.
When the princes heard about it, they all said: Xibo must be a monarch who has received orders from heaven.
In the second year, Xibo conquered Quanrong.
The next year, Mi Xu was conquered.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
明年，败耆国。
殷之祖伊闻之，惧，以告帝纣。
纣曰： 不有天命乎？
是何能为！
明年，伐邘。
明年，伐崇侯虎。
而作丰邑，自岐下而徙都丰。
明年，西伯崩，太子发立，是为武王。
西伯盖即位五十年。
其囚羑里，盖益易之八卦为六十四卦。
诗人道西伯，盖受命之年称王而断虞芮之讼。
後十年而崩，谥为文王。
改法度，制正朔矣。
追尊古公为太王，公季为王季：盖王瑞自太王兴。
武王即位，太公望为师，周公旦为辅，召公、毕公之徒左右王，师脩文王绪业。
九年，武王上祭于毕。东观兵，至于盟津。
为文王木主，载以车，中军。
武王自称太子发，言奉文王以伐，不敢自专。
translation: 
The next year, he defeated Qi.
When Zuyi of the Yin Dynasty heard about it, he was very frightened and reported the situation to King Zhou.
King Zhou said: Isn't it destiny to help me?
What can he do!
The next year, Xibo conquered Xin.
The next year, he conquered Chonghou Hu.
Fengyi was built and the capital was moved from Qixia to Feng.
The next year, Uncle Xi died, and Prince Fa ascended the throne, becoming King Wu.
Siebo reigned for about fifty years.
When he was imprisoned in Youli, he probably increased the eight hexagrams in "Yi" to sixty-four.
Judging from the praise of Count Xi by the author of "Poetry", it was probably in that year that Count Xi was appointed king and adjudicated the lawsuits between Yu and Rui.
He died ten years later, and his posthumous title was King Wen.
He once changed the legal system of Yin and formulated the calendar.
Zeng Zhui respected Gu Gong as the Taiwang, and Gongji as the Wangji: It probably means that the auspicious sign of the emperor began from the time of the Taiwang.
When King Wu came to the throne, Taigong Wang was appointed as Grand Master, Duke Zhou became assistant prime minister, and Duke Zhao and Duke Bi assisted King Wu and followed King Wen's legacy.
In the ninth year of King Wu's appointment, King Wu first offered sacrifices to King Wen in Bi, and then went to the east to hold a military parade and arrived at Mengjin.
Let King Wen's wooden master be carried on a cart and placed in the central army's tent.
King Wu claimed to be Prince Fa, indicating that he was conquering in the name of King Wen and did not dare to act arbitrarily.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
乃告司马、司徒、司空、诸节： 齐栗，信哉！
予无知，以先祖有德臣，小子受先功，毕立赏罚，以定其功。
遂兴师。
师尚父号曰： 总尔众庶，与尔舟楫，後至者斩。
武王渡河，中流，白鱼跃入王舟中，武王俯取以祭。
既渡，有火自上复于下，至于王屋，流为乌，其色赤，其声魄云。
是时，诸侯不期而会盟津者八百诸侯。
诸侯皆曰： 纣可伐矣。
武王曰： 女未知天命，未可也。
乃还师归。
居二年，闻纣昏乱暴虐滋甚，杀王子比干，囚箕子。
太师疵、少师彊抱其乐器而饹周。
於是武王遍告诸侯曰： 殷有重罪，不可以不毕伐。
乃遵文王，遂率戎车三百乘，虎贲三千人，甲士四万五千人，以东伐纣。
十一年十二月戊午，师毕渡盟津，诸侯咸会。
曰： 孳孳无怠！
武王乃作太誓，告于众庶： 今殷王纣乃用其妇人之言，自绝于天，毁坏其三正，离逷其王父母弟，乃断弃其先祖之乐，乃为淫声，用变乱正声，怡说妇人。
translation: 
He declared to Sima, Situ, Sikong and other officials who were ordered by the king to hold the talisman festival: Be careful and do what you say!
I am an ignorant person, but because my ancestors were virtuous, I inherited their achievements. Various reward and punishment systems have now been established to ensure that the achievements of ancestors are completed.
So he sent troops.
Master Shi Shangfu ordered: Gather your men and take advantage of the oars. Anyone who is late will be killed.
King Wu crossed the Yellow River, and when the boat reached the middle of the river, a white fish jumped into King Wu's boat. King Wu leaned over and picked it up for sacrifice.
After crossing the river, a ball of fire fell from the sky and landed on King Wu's roof. It solidified into the shape of a crow, was red in color, and made a soulful cry.
At that time, eight hundred princes came to Mengjin to form an alliance.
The princes all said: Zhou can be defeated.
King Wu said: You don't understand the destiny of heaven, not yet.
So he led the army back.
Two years later, I heard that Zhou was more chaotic and violent than before, so he killed Prince Bigan and imprisoned Jizi.
Tai Shizhen and Shao Shiqiang took their musical instruments and fled to the state of Zhou.
At this time, King Wu announced to all the princes: King Yin has committed serious crimes and must work together to defeat him!
So he followed King Wen's decree and led 300 chariots, 3,000 warriors, and 45,000 armored warriors to march eastward to defeat Zhou.
On the Wuwu day of the twelfth month of the eleventh year, all the troops crossed Mengjin, and all the princes came to join them.
King Wu said: "You must be diligent and don't slack off!"
King Wu therefore wrote the "Tai Oath" and announced to everyone: Now King Zhou of Yin actually listened to the words of his wives and concubines, cut himself off from heaven, violated the movements of the sun, moon, and Beidou, alienated his brothers from the same ancestor, abandoned the music of his ancestors, and dared to use promiscuous music to modify elegant music to please his wives and concubines.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
故今予发维共行天罚。
勉哉夫子，不可再，不可三！
二月甲子昧爽，武王朝至于商郊牧野，乃誓。
武王左杖黄钺，右秉白旄，以麾。
曰： 远矣西土之人！ 武王曰： 嗟！
我有国冢君，司徒、司马、司空，亚旅、师氏，千夫长、百夫长，及庸、蜀、羌、髳、微、纑、彭、濮人，称尔戈，比尔干，立尔矛，予其誓。
王曰： 古人有言 牝鸡无晨。
牝鸡之晨，惟家之索 。
今殷王纣维妇人言是用，自弃其先祖肆祀不答，昬弃其家国，遗其王父母弟不用，乃维四方之多罪逋逃是崇是长，是信是使，俾暴虐于百姓，以奸轨于商国。
今予发维共行天之罚。
今日之事，不过六步七步，乃止齐焉，夫子勉哉！
不过於四伐五伐六伐七伐，乃止齐焉，勉哉夫子！
translation: 
So now I vow to respectfully carry out God's punishment.
You have to work hard, men, there can't be a second war, let alone a third war!
In the early morning of Jiazi Day in February, King Wu came to Muye, a suburb of Shang, to swear an oath.
King Wu held a yellow ax in his left hand and a flag decorated with a white oxtail in his right hand, which he used to command.
Said: Thank you for your hard work, soldiers from the West! King Wu said: Ah!
The kings of my friendly countries, Situ, Sima, Sikong, Yalu, Shishi, all ministers and officials, commanders of thousands and centurions, generals, as well as mediocrities, Shu people, Qiang people, Zong people, Wei people,  people, Peng people, and Pu people, raise your arms high, line up your shields, raise your spears, let us swear!
King Wu said: There is an old saying from the ancients: The hen does not crow.
The hen's crowing will bring ruin to the house.
Now King Zhou of Yin only listens to the words of women, abandons the sacrifice of ancestors and ignores the affairs of the country, abandons the important affairs of the country, and ignores relatives and brothers and refuses to appoint them. Instead, he gathers the criminal fugitives from all over the world, promotes them, respects them, trusts them, uses them, and lets them oppress the people and do evil in the Shang Kingdom.
Now I, Ji Fa, respectfully carry out God’s punishment.
Today we are fighting. Every six or seven steps forward, we will stop and reorganize the team. Everyone must work hard!
After stabbing four, five, six or seven times, stop and reorganize the team. Work hard, soldiers!


Chunk 7: 
original: 
尚桓桓，如虎如罴，如豺如离，于商郊，不御克饹，以役西土，勉哉夫子！
尔所不勉，其于尔身有戮。
誓已，诸侯兵会者车四千乘，陈师牧野。
帝纣闻武王来，亦发兵七十万人距武王。
武王使师尚父与百夫致师，以大卒驰帝纣师。
纣师虽众，皆无战之心，心欲武王亟入。
纣师皆倒兵以战，以开武王。
武王驰之，纣兵皆崩畔纣。
纣走，反入登于鹿台之上，蒙衣其殊玉，自燔于火而死。
武王持大白旗以麾诸侯，诸侯毕拜武王，武王乃揖诸侯，诸侯毕从。
武王至商国，商国百姓咸待於郊。
於是武王使群臣告语商百姓曰： 上天降休！
商人皆再拜稽首，武王亦答拜。
遂入，至纣死所。
translation: 
I hope that everyone will be majestic and brave, like tigers, bears, jackals, and dragons. On the outskirts of Shangdu, don't stop the Yin and Zhou soldiers who are coming to surrender. Let them help us western princes. You must work hard, soldiers!
If any of you doesn't work hard, I will kill him!
After the oath was taken, the armies of the feudal lords who came to join us, with a total of four thousand chariots, set up their formation in Makino.
When King Zhou heard that King Wu was coming to attack, he also sent 700,000 troops to resist King Wu.
King Wu sent his master Shangfu to lead a hundred warriors to challenge, and then he led a large force with 350 chariots, 26,250 soldiers, and 3,000 warriors to rush into Yin Zhou's army.
Although King Zhou's army was large in number, none of them had the will to fight. They only hoped that King Wu's army would attack as soon as possible.
King Zhou's army all turned their weapons to attack Zhou and opened the way for King Wu.
King Wu rushed in with his chariots. Zhou's army was defeated and they all betrayed Yin Zhou.
Zhou fled, returned to the city, climbed to the deer platform, put on all his precious jade, threw himself into the fire and burned himself to death.
King Wu held the Taibai flag and commanded the princes. The princes all bowed to King Wu, and King Wu bowed in return. The princes all followed King Wu.
When King Wu came to the capital of Shang, the people in the city were waiting to welcome him on the outskirts of the city.
So King Wu sent his ministers to tell the people of Shang: God will bless everyone!
The people of Shangdu all kowtowed to King Wu and thanked him, and King Wu also bowed and thanked him respectfully.
So King Wu entered the city and found the place where Zhou burned himself.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
武王自射之，三发而后下车，以轻剑击之，以黄钺斩纣头，县大白之旗。
已而至纣之嬖妾二女，二女皆经自杀。
武王又射三发，击以剑，斩以玄钺，县其头小白之旗。
武王已乃出复军。
其明日，除道，脩社及商纣宫。
及期，百夫荷罕旗以先驱。
武王弟叔振铎奉陈常车，周公旦把大钺，毕公把小钺，以夹武王。
散宜生、太颠、闳夭皆执剑以卫武王。
既入，立于社南大卒之左，右毕从。
毛叔郑奉明水，卫康叔封布兹，召公奭赞采，师尚父牵牲。
尹佚筴祝曰： 殷之末孙季纣，殄废先王明德，侮蔑神祇不祀，昏暴商邑百姓，其章显闻于天皇上帝。
於是武王再拜稽首，曰： 膺更大命，革殷，受天明命。
武王又再拜稽首，乃出。
封商纣子禄父殷之馀民。
武王为殷初定未集，乃使其弟管叔鲜、蔡叔度相禄父治殷。
translation: 
King Wu personally fired arrows at Zhou's corpse, shot three arrows and then stepped off the chariot. He stabbed Zhou's corpse with a light Lu sword, chopped off Zhou's head with a yellow axe, and hung it on the big white flag.
Then he went to Zhou's two concubines and found that both of them had hanged themselves.
King Wu shot three more arrows at them, stabbed them with his sword, chopped off their heads with a black axe, and hung their heads on small white flags.
After doing all this, King Wu left the city and returned to the army.
The next day, King Wu ordered people to clear the roads and repair the temples and palaces of Shang Zhou.
On the appointed day, a hundred soldiers walked in front carrying Han flags with streamers.
King Wu's younger brother Shu Zhenduobu escorted the chariot and lined up to drive the chariot. Zhou Gongdan held a big ax and Bi Gong held a small ax, standing on both sides of King Wu.
San Yisheng, Tai Dian, and Hong Yao all held swords to guard King Wu.
King Wu entered the city and stood to the left of the general in the south of the temple. The ministers on the left and right followed him.
Mao Shuzheng held the dew collected on the moonlit night in his hands, Wei Kangshufeng spread out the straw mat, Zhao Gongxi helped to get the colorful silk, and Shi Shangfu led the sacrificial animal.
Yin Yi read aloud the sacrificial inscription on the bamboo slips and said: The last descendant of Yin, Ji Zhou, abandoned the virtues of the previous king, despised the gods, refused to perform sacrifices, and treated the people in the mall with confusion and cruelty. These things were clearly shown before the Emperor of Heaven.
So King Wu paid homage to the chief inspector again and said: I accept the destiny of God to eradicate the bad government of the Yin Dynasty and accept the bright destiny from heaven.
King Wu paid homage to Jishou again before leaving the city.
King Wu granted the remaining people of Yin to Lu Fu, the son of Shang Zhou.
King Wu sent his younger brothers Guan Shuxian and Cai Shudu to assist Lu's father in governing Yin because the world had just settled down and was not yet peaceful and harmonious.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
已而命召公释箕子之囚。
命毕公释百姓之囚，表商容之闾。
命南宫括散鹿台之财，发钜桥之粟，以振贫弱萌隶。
命南宫括、史佚展九鼎保玉。
命闳夭封比干之墓。
命宗祝享祠于军。
乃罢兵西归。
行狩，记政事，作武成。
封诸侯，班赐宗彝，作分殷之器物。
武王追思先圣王，乃襃封神农之後於焦，黄帝之後於祝，帝尧之後於蓟，帝舜之後於陈，大禹之後於杞。
於是封功臣谋士，而师尚父为首封。
封尚父於营丘，曰齐。
封其弟周公旦於曲阜，曰鲁。
封召公奭於燕。
封弟叔鲜於管，弟叔度於蔡。
馀各以次受封。
武王徵九牧之君，登豳之阜，以望商邑。
translation: 
Then he ordered Duke Zhao to release Jizi from prison.
Bi Gong was ordered to release the imprisoned people from prison and commend the people in Shangronglu Lane.
Nangong Kuo was ordered to distribute the money gathered in Lutai and the food in Juqiao to help the poor savages and untouchables.
Nangong Kuo and Shi Yi were ordered to remove the Jiuding and Baoyu belonging to the Yin people.
Hongyao was ordered to build soil and repair Bigan's tomb.
Zongzhu was ordered to offer sacrifices to the fallen soldiers in the army.
Then withdrew troops back to the west.
Along the way, King Wu visited various vassal states, recorded political affairs, and wrote the "Wucheng" chapter, announcing the achievement of Wu's victory over Yin.
He divided the feudal princes and rewarded them with the sacrificial vessels of the Yin ancestral temple. He wrote the chapter "Dividing the Vessels of Yin" to record his orders and the vessels obtained by the feudal princes.
King Wu recalled the ancient saint kings, so he honored the descendants of Shennong in Jiao, the descendants of Yellow Emperor in Zhu, the descendants of Emperor Yao in Ji, the descendants of Emperor Shun in Chen, and the descendants of Dayu in Qi.
Then he was awarded the title of hero and counselor, and Master Shangfu was the first one to be awarded the title.
King Wu granted his father the title of Qi in Yingqiu.
His younger brother Tong Gongdan was granted the title of Qufu, and his country was named Lu.
He was granted the title of Duke Zhao and died in Yan.
His younger brother Shu Xian was granted the title of Guan, and his younger brother was granted the title of Du in Cai.
Others were also sealed in turn.
King Wu summoned the chief officials of Jiuzhou, climbed to the high ground of Bin, and looked at the capital of Shang in the distance.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
武王至于周，自夜不寐。
周公旦即王所，曰： 曷为不寐？
王曰： 告女：维天不飨殷，自发未生於今六十年，麋鹿在牧，蜚鸿满野。
天不享殷，乃今有成。
维天建殷，其登名民三百六十夫，不显亦不宾灭，以至今。
我未定天保，何暇寐！
王曰： 定天保，依天室，悉求夫恶，贬从殷王受。
日夜劳来定我西土，我维显服，及德方明。
自洛汭延于伊汭，居易毋固，其有夏之居。
我南望三涂，北望岳鄙，顾詹有河，粤詹雒、伊，毋远天室。
营周居于雒邑而後去。
纵马於华山之阳，放牛於桃林之虚；偃干戈，振兵释旅：示天下不复用也。
translation: 
King Wu returned to Zhou Dynasty and could not sleep at night.
Zhou Gongdan came to the king's residence and asked: "Why can't you sleep?"
King Wu said: Let me tell you: It is only because God has not paid tribute to Yin that sixty years have passed since I, Ji Fa, was not born until now. The suburbs are full of wild beasts and vermin.
God no longer accepts the tribute of Yin, so we have the success we have today.
God established the State of Yin, and Yin appointed 360 capable men and sages. Although he did not make any obvious political achievements, he did not let Yin perish, so Yin has survived to this day.
I haven't really received God's blessing, so I don't have any free time to sleep!
King Wu said: If you want to truly get God's blessing, you must rely on Taishi Mountain to find out all the evildoers who do not know the fate of heaven, demote them, and suffer the same crime as King Yin.
We must work diligently day and night to ensure the stability of the Western land. I must conscientiously perform my duties and do a good job in all matters until our virtues are carried forward in all directions.
From the bend of Luoshui River to the bend of Yishui River, people live in the flat areas here rather than in dangerous places. This is the center of Xia people's activities.
I could see Santu Mountain to the south, Taihang Mountain to the north, and the Yellow River looking back. I also carefully observed the Luo River and Yishui River, which are not far from the residence of the Emperor of Heaven.
So he planned to build Zhou City in Luoyi and then left.
They raised horses in the south of Huashan Mountain and cattle in the Taolin area, ordered the army to lay down their weapons, rectified the army and then disbanded the army: to express to the people of the world that they would no longer use troops.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
武王已克殷，後二年，问箕子殷所以亡。
箕子不忍言殷恶，以存亡国宜告。
武王亦丑，故问以天道。
武王病。
天下未集，群公惧，穆卜，周公乃祓斋，自为质，欲代武王，武王有瘳。
後而崩，太子诵代立，是为成王。
成王少，周初定天下，周公恐诸侯畔周，公乃摄行政当国。
管叔、蔡叔群弟疑周公，与武庚作乱，畔周。
周公奉成王命，伐诛武庚、管叔，放蔡叔。
以微子开代殷後，国於宋。
颇收殷馀民，以封武王少弟封为卫康叔。
晋唐叔得嘉穀，献之成王，成王以归周公于兵所。
周公受禾东土，鲁天子之命。
初，管、蔡畔周，周公讨之，三年而毕定，故初作大诰，次作微子之命，次归禾，次嘉禾，次康诰、酒诰、梓材，其事在周公之篇。
周公行政七年，成王长，周公反政成王，北面就群臣之位。
translation: 
Two years after King Wu defeated the Yin Dynasty, he asked Jizi about the reasons for the demise of the Yin Dynasty.
Jizi couldn't bear to talk about the crimes of the Yin Dynasty, so he told King Wu about the survival of the country.
King Wu also felt embarrassed, so he turned to Tiandao.
King Wu was seriously ill.
At this time, the world was not yet unified, and all the ministers were afraid and performed divination. Therefore, Duke Zhou broke the fast and volunteered to be a substitute, hoping to bear the disaster for King Wu. King Wu's illness gradually improved.
Later, King Wu died, and Prince Song inherited the throne and became the king.
When King Cheng was young, Zhou had just brought peace to the world. Duke Zhou was worried that the princes would betray Zhou, so he managed government affairs on behalf of King Cheng and presided over state affairs.
Uncle Guan, Uncle Cai and other brothers suspected that Duke Zhou had usurped the throne and joined forces with Wu Geng to launch a rebellion and betray Zhou.
On the orders of King Cheng, Duke Zhou had Wu Geng and Uncle Guan killed, and Uncle Cai was exiled.
Let Wei Zikai succeed the Yin Dynasty and establish the country in Song Dynasty.
He also gathered a few remnants of the Yin Dynasty and gave the title to King Wu's younger brother, making him Uncle Wei Kang.
Uncle Tang of the Jin Dynasty received an auspicious ear of grain and presented it to King Cheng, who then sent it to the garrison of Duke Zhou.
Duke Zhou received this auspicious ear of grain in the east and praised the emperor's holy mandate to bestow grain.
At first, Uncle Guan and Uncle Cai rebelled against the Zhou Dynasty, and Duke Zhou went to attack them. It took three years to completely pacify them, so he first wrote the "Great Edict" to explain to the world the principles of the Eastern Conquest to conquer the rebellion; then he wrote "The Order of Wei Zi", sealing the throne. Ming Weizi continued in the Yin Dynasty; he wrote "Guihe" and "Jiahe" to describe and praise the emperor's gift of Jiahe; he wrote "Kanggao", "Jiugao" and "Zicai", ordering Uncle Kang to be conferred in Yin, admonishing him to quit drinking, and teaching him the way of government.
The history of those events is recorded in "The Family of Dukes of Lu and Zhou". Duke Zhou administered state affairs for seven years, and King Cheng grew up. Duke Zhou returned the political power to King Cheng and returned to the ranks of his ministers.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
成王在丰，使召公复营洛邑，如武王之意。
周公复卜申视，卒营筑，居九鼎焉。
曰： 此天下之中，四方入贡道里均。
作召诰、洛诰。
成王既迁殷遗民，周公以王命告，作多士、无佚。
召公为保，周公为师，东伐淮夷，残奄，迁其君薄姑。
成王自奄归，在宗周，作多方。
既绌殷命，袭淮夷，归在丰，作周官。兴正礼乐，度制於是改，而民和睦，颂声兴。
成王既伐东夷，息慎来贺，王赐荣伯作贿息慎之命。
成王将崩，惧太子钊之不任，乃命召公、毕公率诸侯以相太子而立之。
成王既崩，二公率诸侯，以太子钊见於先王庙，申告以文王、武王之所以为王业之不易，务在节俭，毋多欲，以笃信临之，作顾命。
太子钊遂立，是为康王。
康王即位，遍告诸侯，宣告以文武之业以申之，作康诰。
故成康之际，天下安宁，刑错四十馀年不用。
康王命作策毕公分居里，成周郊，作毕命。
康王卒，子昭王瑕立。
昭王之时，王道微缺。
昭王南巡狩不返，卒於江上。
其卒不赴告，讳之也。
立昭王子满，是为穆王。
穆王即位，春秋已五十矣。
王道衰微，穆王闵文武之道缺，乃命伯申诫太仆国之政，作命。
translation: 
King Cheng lived in Fengyi and sent Duke Zhao to plan and survey Luoyi again to fulfill King Wu's last wish.
Zhou Gong once again conducted divination and survey, and finally started construction and placed the Jiuding there.
He said: This is the center of the world. Tributes come from all directions, and the distance is the same.
Therefore, he wrote "Zhao Gao" and "Luo Gao".
King Cheng moved the remnants of the Yin Dynasty there, and Duke Zhou announced to them the order of becoming king, and wrote "Too Shi" and "Wu Yi" to admonish the Yin people.
Duke Zhao served as the Taibao, and Duke Zhou served as the Grand Master. They attacked Huaiyi in the east, destroyed the country of Yan, and moved their king to Bogu.
King Cheng came back from the state of Yan and wrote "Duofang" in Zongzhou to warn the princes of the world.
King Cheng eliminated the remnants of the Yin Dynasty, attacked Huaiyi, returned to Fengyi, and wrote "Zhou Officials", which explained the Zhou Dynasty's method of setting up officials and assigning duties, redefined etiquette, and composed music. At this time, laws and regulations were also revised. The people were harmonious and peaceful, and hymns were rising everywhere.
After King Cheng conquered Dongyi, Xi Shen came to congratulate him. King Cheng ordered Rong Bo to write "Bring Xi Shen's Order".
When King Cheng was dying, he was afraid that Prince Zhao would not be able to handle state affairs well, so he ordered Zhao Gong and Bi Gong to lead the princes to assist the prince in making him ascend the throne.
After the death of King Cheng, Duke Zhao and Duke Bi led the princes to visit the ancestral temple of the late king with Prince Zhao. They used the difficulties of King Wen and King Wu to establish the royal family of the Zhou Dynasty and repeatedly warned the prince, asking him to practice frugality, abstain from greed, and concentrate on managing state affairs. They wrote "Gu Ming" and asked the ministers to assist and care for Prince Zhao.
Prince Zhao therefore ascended the throne and became King Kang.
When King Kang came to the throne, he went to all the princes and repeatedly publicized the achievements of King Wen and King Wu, so he wrote the "Kang Gao".
Therefore, during the reign of King Cheng and Kang, the world was peaceful and punishments were not used for more than forty years.
King Kang ordered Bi Gong to plan and divide the people's residences and delineate the suburbs of the Zhou capital, so he wrote "Bi Ming".
After King Kang died, his son King Zhao came to the throne.
When King Zhao was on the throne, the royal way declined.
King Zhao failed to return from his hunting tour in the south and died on the river.
He didn't announce his condolences even after he died, just to hide it.
So he established King Zhao's son Man, who was King Mu.
King Mu was already fifty years old when he ascended the throne.
At that time, kingship was in decline, and King Mu lamented that the virtues of King Wen and King Wu had been damaged, so he ordered Bo Jiu to be a servant and repeatedly warned him to manage the country's political affairs well, and wrote "Zhen Ming".


Chunk 13: 
original: 
复宁。
穆王将征犬戎，祭公谋父谏曰： 不可。
先王燿德不观兵。
夫兵戢而时动，动则威，观则玩，玩则无震。
是故周文公之颂曰： 载戢干戈，载櫜弓矢，我求懿德，肆于时夏，允王保之。
先王之於民也，茂正其德而厚其性，阜其财求而利其器用，明利害之乡，以文脩之，使之务利而辟害，怀德而畏威，故能保世以滋大。
昔我先王世后稷以服事虞、夏。
及夏之衰也，弃稷不务，我先王不窋用失其官，而自窜於戎狄之间。
不敢怠业，时序其德，遵脩其绪，脩其训典，朝夕恪勤，守以敦笃，奉以忠信。
奕世载德，不忝前人。
translation: 
The world was at peace again.
King Mu was preparing to attack Quanrong, so he sacrificed to Gongmou and his father advised him: "No."
Our previous kings used their glorious virtues to convince others, rather than showing off their force.
The army accumulates strength in peacetime and is dispatched when necessary. Once dispatched, it will be powerful. If you just show off your force, you will be careless. If you are careless, no one will be afraid.
Therefore, the poem written by Zhou Wen Gong said: Put away the shield and gun, hide the bow and arrows, I pray for virtue, spread throughout China, and the Holy King can be preserved.
The former kings treated the people, encouraged and corrected their morals, made them honest and honest, increased their property and improved their utensils, understood the interests and concerns, trained them with etiquette and law, taught them to seek advantages and avoid disadvantages, be benevolent and fear punishment, so they could be passed down from generation to generation and their descendants prosperous.
In the past, our ancestors were officials of Houji for generations, serving in the Yu and Xia dynasties.
When the Xia Dynasty declined, agricultural officials were abandoned and people were no longer encouraged to engage in farming. Our late king lost his official position because of his lack of enthusiasm, and he lived among the Rong and Di.
He dare not neglect his ancestors' inheritance, inherit their virtues, follow their ancestors' traditions, abide by their ancestors' teachings and laws, be cautious and diligent in the morning and evening, be honest and sincere, and be loyal and honest.
We should uphold virtue from generation to generation and never dishonor our ancestors.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
至于文王、武王，昭前之光明而加之以慈和，事神保民，无不欣喜。
商王帝辛大恶于民，庶民不忍，䜣载武王，以致戎于商牧。
是故先王非务武也，劝恤民隐而除其害也。
夫先王之制，邦内甸服，邦外侯服，侯卫宾服，夷蛮要服，戎翟荒服。
甸服者祭，侯服者祀，宾服者享，要服者贡，荒服者王。日祭，月祀，时享，岁贡，终王。
先王之顺祀也，有不祭则脩意，有不祀则脩言，有不享则脩文，有不贡则脩名，有不王则脩德，序成而有不至则脩刑。
於是有刑不祭，伐不祀，征不享，让不贡，告不王。
於是有刑罚之辟，有攻伐之兵，有征讨之备，有威让之命，有文告之辞。
translation: 
When King Wen and King Wu arrived, they further carried forward the achievements of their predecessors, added kindness and harmony, respected the gods, and protected the people. All the gods and people were happy.
Emperor Xin, the king of Shang, did so much evil to his people that the people couldn't bear it and were willing to support King Wu, so Muye, who was able to do business, lined up to fight.
Therefore, the late king did not intend to use force, but just because he was always concerned about the suffering of the people and wanted to eliminate harm for the people.
According to the system of the former kings, within the territory of the state was Dianfu, and outside the territory was Houfu. The place where the marquis and guards were set up was called Binfu, the barbarian land was called Yaofu, and the land of Rongzhai was called Huangfu.
The important sacrifices that belong to Dianfu, the important sacrifices that belong to Houfu, the important sacrifices that belong to Binfu, the important tributes that belong to Yaofu, and the important kings that belong to Huangfu. Sacrifice is measured in days, sacrifice is measured in months, enjoyment is measured in seasons, tribute is measured in years, and kingship is measured in lifetimes.
According to the teachings of the late king, if one does not pay tribute, one must correct one's will, if one does not perform sacrifice, one must correct one's words, if one does not pay tribute, one must correct one's etiquette, if one does not pay tribute, one must correct one's status, if one does not pay tribute, one must correct one's morals, if one does not perform one's duties in order and still cannot perform one's duty, punishment shall be imposed.
Therefore, there are punishments for those who do not sacrifice, attacks for those who do not sacrifice, conquests for those who do not enjoy, condemnation for those who do not pay tribute, and warnings to the world for those who are not kings.
Therefore, there are various provisions for punishment, various weapons for attack, various preparations for conquest, orders for severe condemnation, and words to tell the world.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
布令陈辞而有不至，则增脩於德，无勤民於远。
是以近无不听，远无不服。
今自大毕、伯士之终也，犬戎氏以其职来王，天子曰 予必以不享征之，且观之兵 ，无乃废先王之训，而王几顿乎？
吾闻犬戎树敦，率旧德而守终纯固，其有以御我矣。
王遂征之，得四白狼四白鹿以归。
自是荒服者不至。
诸侯有不睦者，甫侯言於王，作脩刑辟。
王曰： 吁，来！
有国有土，告汝祥刑。
在今尔安百姓，何择非其人，何敬非其刑，何居非其宜与？
两造具备，师听五辞。
五辞简信，正於五刑。
五刑不简，正於五罚。
五罚不服，正於五过。
translation: 
Those who declare with orders and words but still do not come to report their duties will further correct their morals and do not have to work on expeditions.
Only in this way can all neighboring countries obey and all distant countries submit.
Now since the death of the second king of the Quanrong clan, the Quanrong clan has been able to keep his duties and come to worship, but the emperor said that I must punish them on the charge of not enjoying the rights, and also show off my force to them. Doesn't this abandon the teachings of the previous kings and put you in a dangerous situation?
I heard that the Inu Rong clan advocates a kind and honest atmosphere and follows the virtues of their predecessors to be consistent. They have something strong enough to resist us.
But King Mu still sent out troops to conquer and brought back four white wolves and four white deer.
From then on, countries belonging to Huangfu no longer came.
Some of the vassal states were not in harmony. Marquis Fu reported this to King Mu and formulated criminal laws.
King Mu said: Hey, come to me!
I will tell you all the princes who have feudal cities and lands, how to use the criminal law prudently.
Now that you want to pacify the people, shouldn't you choose law enforcement personnel? Isn’t it the criminal law itself that should be respected?
Isn’t it the sentencing scale that should be grasped?
When the accuser and defendant are all present, the judge will wait for five words to observe.
If the facts of the crime are not worthy of five punishments, then five punishments will be used to convict the person.
If the facts of the crime do not meet the five penalties and the person is dissatisfied, five penalties will be used to convict the person.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
五过之疵，官狱内狱，阅实其罪，惟钧其过。
五刑之疑有赦，五罚之疑有赦，其审克之。
简信有众，惟讯有稽。
无简不疑，共严天威。
黥辟疑赦，其罚百率，阅实其罪。
劓辟疑赦，其罚倍洒，阅实其罪。
膑辟疑赦，其罚倍差，阅实其罪。
宫辟疑赦，其罚五百率，阅实其罪。
大辟疑赦，其罚千率，阅实其罪。
墨罚之属千，劓罚之属千，膑罚之属五百，宫罚之属三百，大辟之罚其属二百：五刑之属三千。
命曰甫刑。
穆王立五十五年，崩，子共王繄扈立。
共王游於泾上，密康公从，有三女饹之。
其母曰： 必致之王。
translation: 
For various problems related to the "five faults", such as various lawsuits where high-ranking officials and dignitaries are inconvenient to resort to punishment, their crimes must be investigated to make the crimes equivalent to their faults.
Whenever there are lawsuits that should be punished with five punishments but there are doubts that they have to be pardoned, they should be carefully examined.
Evidence must be obtained from the crowd, and interrogation must be based on evidence.
If you can't convict without sufficient evidence, God forbid.
If it is a tattoo but not enough to convict, the fine will be 100% and the crime must be investigated.
If it is a punishment but not enough to convict, the fine will be twice the former, and the crime must be investigated.
If it is a capital punishment but does not constitute a conviction, the fine will be two and a half times the former, and the crime must be investigated.
If it is castration but not enough to convict, the fine will be 500%, and the crime must be investigated.
If the punishment falls under the category of Dapi but does not constitute a conviction, the fine will be 1,000 yuan, and the crime must be investigated.
There are thousands of fine clauses for Mo punishment, thousands of fine clauses for Guan punishment, 500 fine clauses for execution, 300 fine clauses for palace punishment, 200 fine clauses for Dapi punishment, and a total of 3,000 clauses related to the five types of punishment.
It is called "Fuxing".
King Mu passed away in the fifty-fifth year of his reign, and his son, King Gong Meihu, came to the throne.
The king of Gong was playing on the Jing River, and Duke Mi Kang was waiting beside him. Three women came to seek refuge with Duke Mi Kang.
Mi Kanggong's mother said: You must dedicate them to the king.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
夫兽三为群，人三为众，女三为粲。
王田不取群，公行不下众，王御不参一族。
夫粲，美之物也。众以美物归女，而何德以堪之？
王犹不堪，况尔之小丑乎！
小丑备物，终必亡。
康公不献，一年，共王灭密。
共王崩，子懿王畑立。
懿王之时，王室遂衰，诗人作刺。
懿王崩，共王弟辟方立，是为孝王。
孝王崩，诸侯复立懿王太子燮，是为夷王。
夷王崩，子厉王胡立。
厉王即位三十年，好利，近荣夷公。
大夫芮良夫谏厉王曰： 王室其将卑乎？
夫荣公好专利而不知大难。
夫利，百物之所生也，天地之所载也，而有专之，其害多矣。天地百物皆将取焉，何可专也？
所怒甚多，不备大难。
以是教王，王其能久乎？
translation: 
If there are three beasts, they are called a crowd, if there are three people, they are called a crowd, and if there are three beauties, they are called a charm.
The king's field hunting never hunts more than three animals. The prince must be courteous to everyone when traveling. No three of the king's concubines belong to the same clan.
People give you beautiful things, what virtue do you have to enjoy them?
No king deserves to enjoy it, let alone a little person like you!
If a small person possesses such things, he will eventually perish.
Duke Mi Kang refused to give up the three women. A year later, the king of the Communist Party destroyed the kingdom of Mi.
After the death of King Gong, his son King Yi came to the throne.
During the reign of King Yi, the Zhou royal family declined, and poets began to write satirical poems.
After King Yi died, King Gong's younger brother Pi Fang came to the throne and became King Xiao.
After King Xiao died, the princes appointed King Yi's crown prince Xie to the throne, who became King Yi.
After the death of King Yi, his son King Li Hu came to the throne.
King Li had been on the throne for thirty years. He was greedy for money and was close to Duke Rongyi.
The official Rui Liangfu advised King Li: The royal family may be declining!
That Rong Gong only liked to monopolize wealth and profit, but he didn't know that disaster was coming.
Property is the product of all things in the world. If you want to monopolize it, it will do too many harms. Everything in heaven and earth is for everyone to take, how can it be monopolized?
He offended many people, but did not prepare for disaster.
If you use these to teach the king, will the king be able to maintain peace and stability for a long time?


Chunk 18: 
original: 
夫王人者，将导利而布之上下者也。
使神人百物无不得极，犹日怵惕惧怨之来也。
故颂曰 思文后稷，克配彼天，立我蒸民，莫匪尔极 。大雅曰 陈锡载周 。
是不布利而惧难乎，故能载周以至于今。
今王学专利，其可乎？
匹夫专利，犹谓之盗，王而行之，其归鲜矣。
荣公若用，周必败也。
厉王不听，卒以荣公为卿士，用事。
王行暴虐侈傲，国人谤王。
召公谏曰： 民不堪命矣。
王怒，得卫巫，使监谤者，以告则杀之。
其谤鲜矣，诸侯不朝。
三十四年，王益严，国人莫敢言，道路以目。厉王喜，告召公曰： 吾能弭谤矣，乃不敢言。
translation: 
A person who calls himself a king should develop financial resources and extend his benefits everywhere.
Although God, man, and all things are given their proper place, they are still on tenterhooks every day, fearing to cause dissatisfaction.
Therefore, "Ode" says: "Remembering the ancestor Hou Ji, who can be as virtuous as heaven and stabilize my numerous people, is not inconsistent with its principles." "Daya" says: Give generously and become my Zhou state.
Isn’t this just giving away money and benefit while fearing disaster? Therefore, it can become my Zhou Dynasty and continues to this day.
Now what Wang is studying is to monopolize financial profits. How can this be allowed?
If an ordinary person monopolizes wealth and profits, it can be called "stealing". If a king does this, there will be very few people willing to join him.
If Duke Rongyi was reused, the Zhou Dynasty would definitely decline.
King Li refused to listen, and finally appointed Rongyi Gong as a minister and asked him to preside over national affairs.
King Li was tyrannical, extravagant and arrogant, and the people of the country openly discussed his faults.
Duke Zhao remonstrated: The people can no longer stand your decree.
King Li was furious and found a sorcerer who was defending the country and sent him to monitor those who criticized the king.
Anyone reported to have committed this crime will be killed. In this way, the criticism was reduced, and the princes no longer came to see him.
In the thirty-fourth year, King Li became even more strict. No one in the country dared to speak anymore, and they could only exchange glances when meeting on the road. King Li was very proud and told Duke Zhao: I can quell people's criticism so that they dare not even speak.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
召公曰： 是鄣之也。
防民之口，甚於防水。
水壅而溃，伤人必多，民亦如之。
是故为水者决之使导，为民者宣之使言。
故天子听政，使公卿至於列士献诗，瞽献曲，史献书，师箴，瞍赋，矇诵，百工谏，庶人传语，近臣尽规，亲戚补察，瞽史教诲，耆艾脩之，而后王斟酌焉，是以事行而不悖。
民之有口也，犹土之有山川也，财用於是乎出：犹其有原隰衍沃也，衣食於是乎生。
口之宣言也，善败於是乎兴。
行善而备败，所以产财用衣食者也。
夫民虑之於心而宣之於口，成而行之。
若壅其口，其与能几何？ 王不听。
於是国莫敢出言，三年，乃相与畔，袭厉王。
厉王出奔於彘。
translation: 
Duke Zhao said: "This is because you have blocked their mouths."
Blocking people's mouths is more dangerous than blocking water.
If the water is blocked, the embankments will burst and flood, which will definitely hurt a lot of people, including the people.
Therefore, those who manage water must channelize the water, and those who manage the people must let them speak freely.
Therefore, in order to understand the situation, the emperor asked everyone from the ministers to the nobles to contribute poems, blind musicians to present music, historians to present books, masters to give instructions, blind people without eyes to narrate, blind people with eyes to recite, and all craftsmen to Let the common people talk in the streets, let the ministers admonish, let the relatives correct mistakes, let the blind musicians and historians teach, let the old people admonish, and then let the emperor consider it, so that political affairs can be carried out without violating reason.
The people have mouths, just like the land has mountains and rivers, which are the source of wealth, and just like the land has plains and fertile fields, which are the source of food and clothing.
Let people speak freely, and good and bad things can be reflected.
Doing good deeds and guarding against bad deeds is the true source of wealth, food and clothing.
The people consider it in their hearts and speak it out with their mouths, and then do it after the matter is decided.
How can it last long if their mouths are blocked? The king refused to listen.
Therefore, no one in the country dared to speak. Three years later, they rebelled and attacked King Li.
King Li fled to Pig.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
厉王太子静匿召公之家，国人闻之，乃围之。召公曰： 昔吾骤谏王，王不从，以及此难也。
今杀王太子，王其以我为雠而懟怒乎？
夫事君者，险而不雠懟，怨而不怒，况事王乎！
乃以其子代王太子，太子竟得脱。
召公、周公二相行政，号曰 共和 。
共和十四年，厉王死于彘。
太子静长於召公家，二相乃共立之为王，是为宣王。
宣王即位，二相辅之，脩政，法文、武、成、康之遗风，诸侯复宗周。
十二年，鲁武公来朝。
宣王不脩籍於千亩，虢文公谏曰不可，王弗听。
三十九年，战于千亩，王师败绩于姜氏之戎。
宣王既亡南国之师，乃料民於太原。
仲山甫谏曰： 民不可料也。
宣王不听，卒料民。
四十六年，宣王崩，子幽王宫湦立。
幽王二年，西周三川皆震。
伯阳甫曰： 周将亡矣。
translation: 
King Li's prince was hiding quietly in Duke Zhao's house. When the people of the country found out, they surrounded Zhao Gong's house. Duke Zhao said: "I have warned the king many times before, but the king did not listen, which led to such a disaster."
If the prince is killed now, the king will think that I have a grudge against them and resent the king, right?
Those who serve the king should not be resentful even if they are in danger; even if they are resentful, they should not be angry, let alone serving the emperor?
So he replaced the crown prince with his own son, and the crown prince was finally saved from being killed.
The two prime ministers, Duke Zhao and Duke Zhou, were in power together and were known as the Republic.
In the fourteenth year of the Republic of China, King Li died of a pig.
Prince Jing grew up in the house of Duke Zhao, and the two kings jointly established him as King Xuan.
When King Xuan came to the throne, the two ministers assisted him, cultivated political principles, and followed the legacy of King Wen, King Wu, King Cheng, and King Kang, and the princes returned to Zhou.
In the twelfth year, Duke Wu of Lu came to see him.
King Xuan abandoned the gift of family status on a thousand acres. Duke Wen of Guo advised him that this would not work, but King Xuan refused to listen.
In the thirty-ninth year, a battle was fought in Qianmu, and King Xuan's army was defeated by Jiang Rong.
After King Xuan lost his army to conquer the south, he actually directly counted households in Taiyuan.
Zhongshanfu advised: The population cannot be counted.
King Xuan refused to listen to dissuasion and finally took stock.
In the forty-sixth year, King Xuan died, and his son Youwang Gongyang came to the throne.
In the second year of King You, earthquakes occurred in Feng, Hao, Jing, Wei, and Luo areas in western Zhou Dynasty.
Boyangfu said: Zhou is about to perish.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
夫天地之气，不失其序；若过其序，民乱之也。
阳伏而不能出，阴迫而不能蒸，於是有地震。
今三川实震，是阳失其所而填阴也。
阳失而在阴，原必塞；原塞，国必亡。
夫水土演而民用也。
土无所演，民乏财用，不亡何待！
昔伊、洛竭而夏亡，河竭而商亡。
今周德若二代之季矣，其川原又塞，塞必竭。
夫国必依山川，山崩川竭，亡国之徵也。
川竭必山崩。
若国亡不过十年，数之纪也。
天之所弃，不过其纪。
是岁也，三川竭，岐山崩。
三年，幽王嬖爱襃姒。
襃姒生子伯服，幽王欲废太子。
太子母申侯女，而为后。
translation: 
The yin and yang energy between heaven and earth should not be without order; if it is disrupted, someone has caused it to be disordered.
The Yang Qi sinks down and cannot come out, and the Yin Qi suppresses it and prevents it from rising, so there will be earthquakes.
The reason why there are earthquakes in the Sanchuan area today is because Yang Qi has left its original position and been suppressed by Yin Qi.
If Yang Qi is not above but below Yin Qi, the water source will be blocked. If the water source is blocked, the country will perish.
Only when water and soil are ventilated can people engage in production.
If the land cannot be nourished, the people will be short of money. If it reaches this point, what are you waiting for if the country does not perish?
In the past, when the Yishui and Luoshui rivers dried up, the Xia Dynasty perished; when the Yellow River dried up, the Shang Dynasty perished.
Now the Qi of the Zhou Dynasty is the same as that of the late Xia and Shang dynasties. The water flow of the river source is blocked again. The water source is blocked, and the river must dry up.
The survival of a country must depend on its mountains and rivers. Collapse of mountains and drying up of rivers is a sign of national subjugation.
When the rivers dry up, the mountains will surely collapse.
From this point of view, the country's demise will not take ten years, because ten is exactly a cycle of numbers.
If God abandons us, it will not take more than ten years.
At that time, Jing, Wei, and Luo were exhausted, and Qishan collapsed.
Three years later, King You favored Bao Si.
Bao Si gave birth to a son, Bo Fu, and King You wanted to depose the prince.
The prince's mother was the daughter of Marquis Shen and was made queen.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
後幽王得襃姒，爱之，欲废申后，并去太子宜臼，以襃姒为后，以伯服为太子。
周太史伯阳读史记曰： 周亡矣。
昔自夏后氏之衰也，有二神龙止於夏帝庭而言曰： 余，襃之二君。
夏帝卜杀之与去之与止之，莫吉。
卜请其漦而藏之，乃吉。
於是布币而策告之，龙亡而漦在，椟而去之。
夏亡，传此器殷。
殷亡，又传此器周。
比三代，莫敢发之，至厉王之末，发而观之。
漦流于庭，不可除。
厉王使妇人裸而譟之。
漦化为玄鼋，以入王後宫。
後宫之童妾既龀而遭之，既笄而孕，无夫而生子，惧而弃之。
宣王之时童女谣曰： 檿弧箕服，实亡周国。
translation: 
Later, King You got Bao Si and favored her. He planned to depose Empress Shen and also depose the prince Yijiu, making Bao Si the queen and Bo Fu the prince.
Zhou Taishi Boyang read historical records and said: The Zhou Dynasty is about to perish.
Once upon a time, when the Xia Hou family was in decline, two divine dragons landed in the Xia Emperor's courtyard and spoke: We are the two monarchs of the Bao Kingdom.
Emperor Xia didn't know whether to kill them, drive them away, or keep them, so he performed divination, but the results were all unlucky.
The fortune teller asked if he could collect the dragon's saliva to get a good omen.
So he arranged coins and silk sacrifices, wrote simple policies, and prayed to the two dragons. The two dragons disappeared, leaving their saliva behind.
After the fall of Xia Dynasty, this weapon was passed down to Shang Dynasty.
After the death of Shang Dynasty, this weapon was passed down to Zhou Dynasty.
For three consecutive dynasties, no one dared to open it. It was only in the last years of King Li's reign that he opened it for viewing.
The saliva flows in the courtyard and cannot be removed.
King Li made the women naked and scream loudly.
The saliva turned into a black lizard and crawled into the king's harem.
There was a virgin girl in the harem who had just turned seven years old. She encountered him. When she was fifteen years old, she got pregnant after giving birth to a child without a husband. She was afraid and threw the child away.
During the reign of King Xuan, a girl sang a ballad and said: "Seeing a bow made of mulberry and a quiver made of dustpan wood, the Kingdom of Zhou will be destroyed."


Chunk 23: 
original: 
於是宣王闻之，有夫妇卖是器者，宣王使执而戮之。
逃於道，而见乡者後宫童妾所弃妖子出於路者，闻其夜啼，哀而收之，夫妇遂亡，饹於襃。
襃人有罪，请入童妾所弃女子者於王以赎罪。弃女子出於襃，是为襃姒。
当幽王三年，王之後宫见而爱之，生子伯服，竟废申后及太子，以襃姒为后，伯服为太子。
太史伯阳曰： 祸成矣，无可奈何！
襃姒不好笑，幽王欲其笑万方，故不笑。
幽王为烽燧大鼓，有寇至则举烽火。
诸侯悉至，至而无寇，襃姒乃大笑。
幽王说之，为数举烽火。
其後不信，诸侯益亦不至。
幽王以虢石父为卿，用事，国人皆怨。
translation: 
When King Xuan heard this song, a couple happened to be selling mulberry bows and quivers made of wood. King Xuan ordered people to arrest them and wanted to kill them.
The couple fled to the road and found the baby that had been abandoned by the palace maid. They heard her crying in the middle of the night and took pity on her, so they took her in. The couple continued to flee and fled to Baoguo.
Later, the people of Baoguo offended the Zhou Dynasty, so they wanted to offer the girl abandoned by the little palace maid to King Li in order to atone for their sins. Because the girl who was thrown away was donated by Baoguo, they called her Baosi.
In the third year of King You of the Zhou Dynasty, King You went to the harem. He fell in love with the woman very much when he saw her, and gave birth to a son, Bo Fu. In the end, he deposed Empress Shen and the prince, and made Bao Si the queen and Bo Fu the prince.
Taishi Boyang said: The disaster has already occurred, and there is no way out!
Bao Si doesn't like to laugh. King You used many methods, but she didn't even laugh.
King Zhou You set up beacon fires, smoke and drums, and lit the beacon fire when enemies came to invade.
In order to make Bao Si laugh, King You of Zhou lit the beacon fire. When the princes saw the beacon fire, they all rushed over. When they arrived, there were no enemies. Bao Si laughed out loud as expected.
King You liked this method and raised beacons for Bao Si many times.
Later, losing trust, the princes gradually stopped coming.
King You appointed Guo Shifu as a minister to preside over the affairs of the country. People in the capital were very angry.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
石父为人佞巧善谀好利，王用之。
又废申后，去太子也。
申侯怒，与缯、西夷犬戎攻幽王。
幽王举烽火徵兵，兵莫至。
遂杀幽王骊山下，虏襃姒，尽取周赂而去。
於是诸侯乃即申侯而共立故幽王太子宜臼，是为平王，以奉周祀。
平王立，东迁于雒邑，辟戎寇。
平王之时，周室衰微，诸侯彊并弱，齐、楚、秦、晋始大，政由方伯。
四十九年，鲁隐公即位。
五十一年，平王崩，太子洩父蚤死，立其子林，是为桓王。
桓王，平王孙也。
桓王三年，郑庄公朝，桓王不礼。
五年，郑怨，与鲁易许田。
许田，天子之用事太山田也。
八年，鲁杀隐公，立桓公。
十三年，伐郑，郑射伤桓王，桓王去归。
二十三年，桓王崩，子庄王佗立。
translation: 
Guo Shi's father was a eloquent man who liked flattery and was greedy for wealth, but King You put him in high regard.
In addition, he deposed Empress Shen and removed the prince.
Marquis Shen was very angry and joined forces with Zhen and Quan Rong, who belonged to Xiyi, to attack King You.
King You raised beacon fire to recruit the armies of the princes, but none of them came.
Marquis Shen killed King You at the foot of Mount Li, captured Bao Si, and took away all Zhou's treasures before leaving.
At that time, all the princes came to Shenhou to jointly establish Yijiu, the prince of the former Youwang, as Pingwang, in order to maintain the Zhou Dynasty's sacrificial tradition.
King Ping ascended the throne and moved the capital east to Luoyi to avoid the invaders.
During the reign of King Ping, the Zhou royal family declined, and powerful states annexed weak ones. Qi, Chu, Qin, and Jin began to become powerful, and political orders often came from the hegemonic monarch.
In the forty-ninth year, Duke Yin of Lu came to the throne.
In the fifty-first year, King Ping passed away, and the prince's father died early, so he made his son Lin the king, who was King Huan.
King Huan is the grandson of King Ping.
In the third year of King Huan's reign, Duke Zhuang of Zheng came to court, but King Huan did not give him any courtesy.
In the fifth year, Zheng sent Wan to exchange Xu Tian with Lu.
Xutian is the land used by the emperor to worship Mount Tai.
In the eighth year, the state of Lu killed Duke Yin and established Duke Huan.
In the thirteenth year, when Zheng was attacked, Zheng shot and wounded King Huan, and King Huan fled back.
In the twenty-third year, King Huan died and his son, King Zhuang Tuo, ascended the throne.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
庄王四年，周公黑肩欲杀庄王而立王子克。
辛伯告王，王杀周公。王子克饹燕。
十五年，庄王崩，子釐王胡齐立。
釐王三年，齐桓公始霸。
五年，釐王崩，子惠王阆立。
惠王二年。初，庄王嬖姬姚，生子穨，穨有宠。
及惠王即位，夺其大臣园以为囿，故大夫边伯等五人作乱，谋召燕、卫师，伐惠王。
惠王饹温，已居郑之栎。
立釐王弟穨为王。
乐及遍舞，郑、虢君怒。
四年，郑与虢君伐杀王穨，复入惠王。
惠王十年，赐齐桓公为伯。
二十五年，惠王崩，子襄王郑立。
襄王母蚤死，後母曰惠后。
惠后生叔带，有宠於惠王，襄王畏之。
三年，叔带与戎、翟谋伐襄王，襄王欲诛叔带，叔带饹齐。
translation: 
In the fourth year of King Zhuang's reign, Duke Zhou Heijian wanted to kill King Zhuang and support Prince Ke.
Xin Bo reported the news to King Zhuang, who killed Duke Zhou, and Prince Ke fled to Yan.
In the fifteenth year, King Zhuang died, and his son King Li, Hu Qi, came to the throne.
In the third year of King Li's reign, Duke Huan of Qi began to dominate.
In the fifth year, King Li died and his son, King Hui Lang, came to the throne.
In the second year of King Hui's reign, King Zhuang's favorite concubine, Yao Shi, gave birth to a son named Dai, who was favored by him.
When King Hui came to the throne, King Hui seized the gardens of his ministers and used them as his own hunting grounds. Therefore, Bian Bo, the official, and five other people made a rebellion and planned to summon the troops of Yan and Wei to attack King Hui.
King Hui fled to Wen, and soon lived in Yue, Zheng State.
They made King Li's younger brother Dai king.
A full set of dance music was played. The kings of Zheng and Guo were very angry.
Four years later, the kings of Zheng and Guo came to attack, killed Wang Dai, and re-elected King Hui.
In the tenth year of King Hui's reign, he granted Duke Huan of Qi the title of uncle.
In the twenty-fifth year, King Hui passed away, and his son King Xiang Zheng ascended the throne.
King Xiang's mother has passed away long ago. The stepmother is Empress Hui.
Empress Hui gave birth to her uncle, who was favored by King Hui, but King Xiang did not trust him.
In the third year, Shudai negotiated with Rong and Zhai to attack King Xiang. King Xiang wanted to kill Shudai, so Shudai fled to Qi.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
齐桓公使管仲平戎于周，使隰朋平戎于晋。
王以上卿礼管仲。
管仲辞曰： 臣贱有司也，有天子之二守国、高在。若节春秋来承王命，何以礼焉。
陪臣敢辞。 王曰： 舅氏，余嘉乃勋，毋逆朕命。
管仲卒受下卿之礼而还。
九年，齐桓公卒。
十二年，叔带复归于周。
十三年，郑伐滑，王使游孙、伯服请滑，郑人囚之。
郑文公怨惠王之入不与厉公爵，又怨襄王之与卫滑，故囚伯服。
王怒，将以翟伐郑。
富辰谏曰： 凡我周之东徙，晋、郑焉依。
子穨之乱，又郑之由定，今以小怨弃之！
王不听。
十五年，王降翟师以伐郑。
王德翟人，将以其女为后。
富辰谏曰： 平、桓、庄、惠皆受郑劳，王弃亲亲翟，不可从。
王不听。
十六年，王绌翟后，翟人来诛，杀谭伯。
富辰曰： 吾数谏不从。如是不出，王以我为懟乎？
translation: 
Duke Huan of Qi sent Guan Zhong to persuade Rong to make peace with Zhou, and Xi Peng to persuade Rong to make peace with Jin.
King Xiang received Guan Zhong with the courtesy of a superior minister.
Guan Zhong thanked him and said: "As a minister, I am just a lowly official. There are also two ministers in the state of Qi, Guo Shi and Gao Shi, who were personally appointed by the emperor. If they come to see the emperor in spring or autumn, how will you receive them?"
As a dual minister of the Emperor and Duke Huan of Qi, I took the liberty to decline. King Xiang said: You are an envoy from my uncle's family. I appreciate your achievements. Please don't refuse my kindness.
Guan Zhong finally accepted Xia Qing's courtesy and returned to his country.
In the ninth year, Duke Huan of Qi passed away.
In the twelfth year, Shudai returned to the Zhou Dynasty.
In the thirteenth year, the State of Zheng attacked the State of Hua. King Zhou Xiang sent You Sun and Bo Fu to intercede for Hua, and the State of Zheng imprisoned these two people.
Duke Wen of Zheng resented that after King Hui was escorted back to the court, he gave the wine utensils and jade to Duke Guo but not to Duke Zheng Li. He also resented King Xiang for helping Wei and Hua, so he imprisoned Bo Fu.
King Xiang was very angry and planned to use the Zhai people to attack Zheng.
Fu Chen advised King Xiang: When Zhou moved eastward, he relied on the strength of Jin and Zheng.
Zidai's rebellion was put down by Zheng Guo. Can he abandon it now because of a little resentment?
King Xiang did not listen to the dissuasion.
In the fifteenth year, King Xiang sent troops from Zhai to attack Zheng.
King Xiang was grateful to the people of Zhai and planned to make King Zhai's daughter his queen.
Fuchen also advised: King Ping, King Huan, King Zhuang, and King Hui have all benefited from Zheng. It is really not advisable for you, the king, to abandon Zheng, a relative of the same surname, and get close to Zhai.
King Xiang still didn't listen.
In the 16th year, King Xiang deposed Empress Zhai, and the people of Zhai came to punish her and killed Dr. Tan Bo of Zhou.
Fu Chen said: I have repeatedly advised the king, but the king has not listened. Now that we are in this situation, if I don't go out to fight, the king may think that I resent him!


Chunk 27: 
original: 
乃以其属死之。
初，惠后欲立王子带，故以党开翟人，翟人遂入周。
襄王出饹郑，郑居王于氾。
子带立为王，取襄王所绌翟后与居温。
十七年，襄王告急于晋，晋文公纳王而诛叔带。
襄王乃赐晋文公珪鬯弓矢，为伯，以河内地与晋。
二十年，晋文公召襄王，襄王会之河阳、践土，诸侯毕朝，书讳曰 天王狩于河阳 。
二十四年，晋文公卒。
三十一年，秦穆公卒。
三十二年，襄王崩，子顷王壬臣立。
顷王六年，崩，子匡王班立。
匡王六年，崩，弟瑜立，是为定王。
定王元年，楚庄王伐陆浑之戎，次洛，使人问九鼎。
王使王孙满应设以辞，楚兵乃去。
十年，楚庄王围郑，郑伯降，已而复之。
translation: 
So he led his followers to fight against Di Zi and died in the battle.
At first, Empress Hui planned to make Prince Shu Dai the crown prince, so she sent her followers to act as internal agents for the Zhai people, who then invaded Zhou Dynasty.
King Xiang fled to Zheng, and Zheng settled the king in Si.
Zidai ascended the throne as king and took Empress Zhai, whom King Xiang had deposed, to live with him in Wen.
In the seventeenth year, King Xiang complained to Jin. Duke Wen of Jin sent the king back to his country and killed his uncle.
Therefore, King Xiang gave Duke Wen of Jin Gui Zan, a hairpin, a bow and arrows, named him uncle, and gave the land in Hanoi to Jin.
In the 20th year, Duke Wen of Jin summoned King Xiang, and King Xiang met with him in Heyang and Jiantu. All the princes came to see him, and the history books covered it up, saying that the king of Zhou came to Heyang on a hunting tour.
Twenty-four years ago, Duke Wen of Jin passed away.
In the thirty-first year, Duke Mu of Qin passed away.
In the thirty-second year, King Xiang died, and his son, King Qing Renchen, came to the throne.
In the sixth year of King Qing's reign, he died, and his son Kuang Wangban came to the throne.
In the sixth year of King Kuang's death, his younger brother Yu came to the throne and became King Ding.
In the first year of King Ding, King Zhuang of Chu conquered the Rong tribe in Luhun. The army was stationed in Luoyi. The King of Chu sent people to inquire about the size of Jiuding.
King Ding ordered Wang Sunman to deal with him with clever words, and then the Chu soldiers left.
Ten years later, King Zhuang of Chu besieged the State of Zheng. Bo Zheng surrendered and soon restored the State of Zheng.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
十六年，楚庄王卒。
二十一年，定王崩，子简王夷立。
简王十三年，晋杀其君厉公，迎子周於周，立为悼公。
十四年，简王崩，子灵王泄心立。
灵王二十四年，齐崔杼弑其君庄公。
二十七年，灵王崩，子景王贵立。
景王十八年，后太子圣而蚤卒。
二十年，景王爱子朝，欲立之，会崩，子丐之党与争立，国人立长子猛为王，子朝攻杀猛。
猛为悼王。
晋人攻子朝而立丐，是为敬王。
敬王元年，晋人入敬王，子朝自立，敬王不得入，居泽。
四年，晋率诸侯入敬王于周，子朝为臣，诸侯城周。
十六年，子朝之徒复作乱，敬王饹于晋。
十七年，晋定公遂入敬王于周。
三十九年，齐田常杀其君简公。
四十一年，楚灭陈。
孔子卒。
四十二年，敬王崩，子元王仁立。
元王八年，崩，子定王介立。
定王十六年，三晋灭智伯，分有其地。
二十八年，定王崩，长子去疾立，是为哀王。
translation: 
In the sixteenth year, King Zhuang of Chu passed away.
In the twenty-first year, King Ding died, and his son King Jian came to the throne.
In the thirteenth year of King Jian's reign, Jin killed their king Li Gong, took Zi Zhou back from Zhou, and made him the duke of mourning.
In the fourteenth year, King Jian passed away, and his son King Ling came to the throne.
In the twenty-fourth year of King Ling's reign, Cui Zhu of Qi killed their king Zhuang Gong.
In the twenty-seventh year, King Ling passed away, and his son King Jinggui came to the throne.
In the eighteenth year of King Jing's reign, the Queen and Prince Shengming died early.
Twenty years later, King Jing favored Zi Chao and planned to make him the crown prince. However, King Jing died at this time. Zi Beggar and a group of people fought against Zi Chao. People in the capital made Meng, their eldest son, king. Zi Chao attacked and killed Meng.
Meng Ji mourns the king.
When the Jin people attacked the Zi Dynasty and made a beggar king, they respected the king.
In the first year of King Jing's reign, the people of Jin escorted King Jing back to the court. Because the imperial court had established itself as king, King Jing could not enter the capital, so he lived in Zeyi.
In the fourth year, Jin led the princes to escort King Jing back to Zhou. Zi Chao became a minister, and the princes built a capital for Zhou.
In the sixteenth year, a group of people from the Zi Dynasty rebelled again, and King Jing fled to Jin.
In the seventeenth year, Jin Dinggong finally sent the King of Zhou back to the Zhou capital.
In the thirty-ninth year, Qi Guo Tian Chang killed their king Jian Gong.
In the forty-one year, Chu destroyed Chen.
Confucius died in this year.
In the forty-second year, King Zhou Jing passed away, and his son Yuan Wangren ascended the throne.
In the eighth year of King Yuan's reign, he passed away and his son Ding Wangjie ascended the throne.
In the sixteenth year of King Ding's reign, the three kingdoms of Zhao, Wei, and Han destroyed Zhibo and divided his land.
In the twenty-eighth year, King Ding passed away and his eldest son Quji ascended the throne. This was King Ai.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
哀王立三月，弟叔袭杀哀王而自立，是为思王。
思王立五月，少弟嵬攻杀思王而自立，是为考王。
此三王皆定王之子。
考王十五年，崩，子威烈王午立。
考王封其弟于河南，是为桓公，以续周公之官职。
桓公卒，子威公代立。
威公卒，子惠公代立，乃封其少子於巩以奉王，号东周惠公。
威烈王二十三年，九鼎震。
命韩、魏、赵为诸侯。
二十四年，崩，子安王骄立。
是岁盗杀楚声王。
安王立二十六年，崩，子烈王喜立。
烈王二年，周太史儋见秦献公曰： 始周与秦国合而别，别五百载复合，合十七岁而霸王者出焉。
十年，烈王崩，弟扁立，是为显王。显王五年，贺秦献公，献公称伯。
九年，致文武胙於秦孝公。
translation: 
Three months after King Ai ascended the throne, his younger brother and uncle attacked and killed King Ai, and ascended the throne himself. This was King Si.
Five months after King Si ascended the throne, his youngest brother Wei attacked and killed King Si and proclaimed himself king, namely King Kao.
These three kings are all the sons of King Ding.
In the fifteenth year of King Kao's reign, he passed away, and his son Wei Lie Wang Wu came to the throne.
King Kao sealed his younger brother, Duke Huan of the Western Zhou Dynasty, in Henan, and asked him to inherit the official position of Duke of Zhou.
After the death of Duke Huan, his son Wei Gong succeeded him.
After Wei Gong's death, his son Hui Gong succeeded him and granted his youngest son the title of Duke Hui of the Eastern Zhou Dynasty.
In the twenty-third year of King Wei Lie, the royal city where Jiuding was placed was earthquake.
In this year, King Zhou appointed Han, Wei, and Zhao as princes.
In the twenty-fourth year, King Wei Lie died, and his son An Wangjiao came to the throne.
This year, thieves killed King Sheng of Chu.
King An died after reigning for twenty-six years, and his son King Lie came to the throne.
In the second year of King Lie, Zhou Taishi met Qin Xiangong and said: Zhou and Qin were together at first, but later they separated. After five hundred years of separation, they got together again. After seventeen years of being together, there will be a person who will dominate and unify the world.
Ten years later, congratulations to Duke Xian of Qin for his dominance. In the ninth year, King Xian gave the pork belly sacrificed to King Wen and King Wu to Qin Xiaogong.
In the twenty-fifth year, Qin made an alliance with the princes in Zhou.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
二十五年，秦会诸侯於周。二十六年，周致伯於秦孝公。
三十三年，贺秦惠王。
三十五年，致文武胙於秦惠王。
四十四年，秦惠王称王。
其後诸侯皆为王。
四十八年，显王崩，子慎靓王定立。
慎靓王立六年，崩，子赧王延立。
王赧时东西周分治。
王赧徙都西周。
西周武公之共太子死，有五庶子，毋適立。
司马翦谓楚王曰： 不如以地资公子咎，为请太子。
左成曰： 不可。
周不听，是公之知困而交疏於周也。
不如请周君孰欲立，以微告翦，翦请令楚之以地。
果立公子咎为太子。
八年，秦攻宜阳，楚救之。
而楚以周为秦故，将伐之。
苏代为周说楚王曰： 何以周为秦之祸也？
translation: 
In the twenty-sixth year, the king of Zhou gave the title of Fang Bo, the overlord of the princes, to Duke Xiao of Qin.
In the thirty-third year, congratulations to King Qin Hui.
In the thirty-fifth year, the meat sacrificed to King Wen and King Wu was given to King Hui of Qin.
In the forty-fourth year, King Hui of Qin became king.
From then on, the princes all became kings.
In the forty-eighth year, King Xian died, and his son King Shenliang came to the throne.
King Shenliang reigned for six years. After his death, his son Wang Yan came to the throne.
During Wang Nan's time, the Eastern Zhou Dynasty and the Western Zhou Dynasty were in charge of their own affairs.
Wang Nan moved the capital to the Western Zhou Dynasty.
The co-prince of Duke Wu of the Western Zhou Dynasty passed away, and he had five other sons, all of whom were concubines. There was no legitimate son who could be established as the crown prince.
Sima Jian said to the King of Chu: It is better to use land to support Prince Jiu and ask for the crown prince position for him.
Zuo Cheng said: No.
If Zhou doesn't listen to us, then you will be in an embarrassing and difficult situation, and your friendship with Zhou will be alienated.
It is better to ask Zhou Jun who he wants to make the crown prince, and then tell Jian privately, and Jian will ask Chu State to fund him with land.
As expected, the Western Zhou Dynasty established Prince Jiu as the crown prince.
In the eighth year, Qin attacked Yiyang, and Chu sent troops to rescue him.
Chu State thought that Zhou was helping Qin State, so it wanted to attack Zhou State.
Su lobbied the King of Chu on behalf of Zhou and said: How do you know that Zhou's help to Qin is a disaster?


Chunk 31: 
original: 
言周之为秦甚於楚者，欲令周入秦也，故谓 周秦 也。
周知其不可解，必入於秦，此为秦取周之精者也。
为王计者，周於秦因善之，不於秦亦言善之，以疏之於秦。
周绝於秦，必入於郢矣。
秦借道两周之间，将以伐韩，周恐借之畏於韩，不借畏於秦。
史厌谓周君曰： 何不令人谓韩公叔曰 秦之敢绝周而伐韩者，信东周也。
公何不与周地，发质使之楚 ？
秦必疑楚不信周，是韩不伐也。
又谓秦曰 韩彊与周地，将以疑周於秦也，周不敢不受 。
秦必无辞而令周不受，是受地於韩而听於秦。
秦召西周君，西周君恶往，故令人谓韩王曰： 秦召西周君，将以使攻王之南阳也，王何不出兵於南阳？
周君将以为辞於秦。
周君不入秦，秦必不敢逾河而攻南阳矣。
东周与西周战，韩救西周。
或为东周说韩王曰： 西周故天子之国，多名器重宝。王案兵毋出，可以德东周，而西周之宝必可以尽矣。
王赧谓成君。
translation: 
Those who say that Zhou helped Qin more than Chu, want Zhou to join the Qin camp, so people put Zhou and Qin together and say Zhou Qin.
Zhou knew that he had no way to escape, so he would definitely join Qin's camp. This was a clever plan to help Qin capture Zhou.
If you really care about the king, then Zhou should be treated kindly if he works for Qin; he should be treated kindly if he does not work for Qin. Only in this way can Zhou and Qin be alienated.
After Zhou and Qin broke off relations, they would definitely surrender to the capital of Ying, the state of Chu.
The Qin State borrowed a road between the Eastern Zhou Dynasty and the Western Zhou Dynasty and prepared to attack South Korea. Zhou was worried that if he borrowed the road to Qin, he would offend South Korea. If he did not borrow the road, he would be afraid of offending the Qin State.
Shi Yan said to Zhou Jun: "Why don't you send someone to see Mr. Han?" He said to Uncle Han: The reason why Qin dared to pass through Zhou to attack Korea was because it trusted Eastern Zhou.
Why don't you give Zhou some land and send hostages to Chu?
Qin will definitely doubt Chu and not trust Zhou, so it will not attack South Korea.
Then he told Qin: Han Fei had to give land to Zhou in order to make Qin doubt Zhou in this way, so Zhou did not dare not accept it.
Qin must not have asked Zhou not to accept the land, so that he could obtain Han's land and obey Qin's orders.
Qin summoned the king of Western Zhou, but the king was unwilling to go, so he sent someone to say to the king of Han: Qin summoned the king of Western Zhou, and he wanted to send him to attack the king's Nanyang. Why didn't the king send troops to garrison Nanyang?
At that time, Zhou Jun will use this as an excuse to refuse to go to Qin.
If Zhou Jun does not go to Qin, Qin will not dare to cross the Yellow River to attack Nanyang.
The Eastern Zhou Dynasty was at war with the Western Zhou Dynasty, and Han sent troops to rescue the Western Zhou Dynasty.
Someone persuaded the King of Han on behalf of the Eastern Zhou Dynasty: The Western Zhou Dynasty was originally the capital of the emperor. There are many rare artifacts and valuable treasures. If the king does not move, the Eastern Zhou Dynasty will be grateful for your kindness, and all the treasures of the Western Zhou Dynasty can be obtained.
King Nan of Zhou was called Chengjun.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
楚围雍氏，韩徵甲与粟於东周，东周君恐，召苏代而告之。
代曰： 君何患於是。
臣能使韩毋徵甲与粟於周，又能为君得高都。
周君曰： 子苟能，请以国听子。
代见韩相国曰： 楚围雍氏，期三月也，今五月不能拔，是楚病也。
今相国乃徵甲与粟於周，是告楚病也。 韩相国曰： 善。
使者已行矣。
五代曰： 何不与周高都？
韩相国大怒曰： 吾毋徵甲与粟於周亦已多矣，何故与周高都也？
代曰： 与周高都，是周折而入於韩也，秦闻之必大怒忿周，即不通周使，是以弊高都得完周也。曷为不与？ 相国曰： 善。
果与周高都。
三十四年，苏厉谓周君曰： 秦破韩、魏，扑师武，北取赵蔺、离石者，皆白起也。
是善用兵，又有天命。
今又将兵出塞攻梁，梁破则周危矣。
君何不令人说白起乎？
translation: 
The State of Chu besieged the Yong clan of South Korea, and South Korea collected weapons and grain from the Eastern Zhou Dynasty. The Lord of Eastern Zhou Dynasty was very frightened and summoned Su Dai to tell him the matter.
Su Dai said: Why should you worry about this matter.
My ministers can prevent South Korea from requisitioning weapons and food from the Eastern Zhou Dynasty, and can also obtain Gaodu for you.
Lord Dongzhou said: If you really have such ability, I will make the whole country obey you.
Su Dai went to see South Korea's Prime Minister Zhongchi and said: The Chu State besieged the Yong family, and they promised to attack it in March. Now it has been five months and it still cannot be conquered. This shows that the Chu State is very tired.
Now, as the Prime Minister, you are asking Zhou for weapons and food, which is equivalent to announcing to Chu that you have suffered serious losses. South Korea's Prime Minister said: That's right.
But the messenger has already set off.
Su Dai said: Why didn't the state give Gaodu to Zhou?
The Korean Prime Minister was furious and said: If I don't requisition weapons and food from Zhou, it is already a big concession. Why should I give Gaodu to Eastern Zhou?
Su Dai said: If Gaodu is given to Zhou, then Zhou will turn to South Korea. When the Qin State hears about it, it will be very angry and resentful towards Zhou, and will cut off all contacts with Zhou's envoys. This is equivalent to exchanging the ruined Gaodu for a complete Zhou Dynasty. Why not give it? The Prime Minister said: What you got is right.
Sure enough, Gaodu was given to Zhou.
In the thirty-fourth year, Su Li said to Zhou Jun: Qin conquered South Korea and Wei, and defeated Wei's general Shi Wu. In the north, he captured Lin, Lishi and other places in Zhao State. This was all done by Bai Qi.
Bai Qi is good at using soldiers, and he is protected by destiny.
Now he led his army out of Yique fortress to attack Liang. If Liang was defeated, Zhou would be in danger.
Why don't you send someone to persuade Bai Qi?


Chunk 33: 
original: 
曰 楚有养由基者，善射者也。
去柳叶百步而射之，百发而百中之。
左右观者数千人，皆曰善射。
有一夫立其旁，曰 善，可教射矣 。
养由基怒，释弓搤剑，曰 客安能教我射乎 ？
客曰 非吾能教子支左诎右也。
夫去柳叶百步而射之，百发而百中之，不以善息，少焉气衰力倦，弓拨矢钩，一发不中者，百发尽息 。
今破韩、魏，扑师武，北取赵蔺、离石者，公之功多矣。
今又将兵出塞，过两周，倍韩，攻梁，一举不得，前功尽弃。
公不如称病而无出 。
四十二年，秦破华阳约。
马犯谓周君曰： 请令梁城周。
乃谓梁王曰： 周王病若死，则犯必死矣。
犯请以九鼎自入於王，王受九鼎而图犯。 梁王曰： 善。
translation: 
He said: There was a man named Yang Youji in the state of Chu who was good at archery.
He could shoot an arrow a hundred steps away from the willow leaves and hit the target with perfect accuracy.
There were thousands of people watching on the left and right, and everyone praised him for his good shooting.
Only one man stood beside him and said, "Yes, you can leave it to him to shoot the arrows."
Yang Youji was furious, put down his bow, held his sword, and said: "My guest, what ability do you have to teach me archery?"
The guest said: I can't teach you the technique of holding the bow with your left hand and stringing with the right hand.
Shoot an arrow a hundred steps away from the willow leaves like just now, and you will always hit the target. If you don't know to stop when the shot is best, you will soon be exhausted.
Now you have already accomplished a lot by conquering South Korea and Wei, killing Shi Wu, and capturing Lin and Lishi of Zhao in the north.
Now you lead the army out of the fortress, passing through the Eastern Zhou Dynasty and the Western Zhou Dynasty, with South Korea as your back, and besieging the Liang Kingdom. As long as you fail to win a battle, all your previous efforts will be in vain.
You might as well claim to be ill and not fight.
In the forty-second year, Qin conquered Wei's dangerous territory of Huayang.
Zhou's minister Ma Fu said to Zhou Jun: Please allow me to lobby Liang Guo to build a city for Zhou.
So he went to the king of Liang and said: If the king of Zhou dies because he is worried about Qin's attack on Zhou, then I will definitely die too.
I request to take the initiative to offer Jiuding to the king. When the king gets the Jiuding, he will consider what I said for me. King Liang said: OK.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
遂与之卒，言戍周。
因谓秦王曰： 梁非戍周也，将伐周也。
王试出兵境以观之。
秦果出兵。
又谓梁王曰： 周王病甚矣，犯请後可而复之。
今王使卒之周，诸侯皆生心，後举事且不信。
不若令卒为周城，以匿事端。 梁王曰： 善。
遂使城周。
四十五年，周君之秦客谓周曰： 公不若誉秦王之孝，因以应为太后养地，秦王必喜，是公有秦交。
交善，周君必以为公功。交恶，劝周君入秦者必有罪矣。
秦攻周，而周勣谓秦王曰： 为王计者不攻周。
攻周，实不足以利，声畏天下。
天下以声畏秦，必东合於齐。
translation: 
So he sent troops to him, claiming to be to guard Zhou City.
The horse prisoner took the opportunity to go to the King of Qin and said: Liang sent troops not to defend the city of Zhou, but to attack Zhou.
Your Majesty, you can try sending troops to the border to observe the situation.
As expected, Qin State sent troops.
The prisoner Ma took the opportunity and said to King Liang again: King Zhou's illness has been cured. The donation of Jiuding that I requested will be discussed later when the time comes.
Now that the king is sending troops to Zhou, the princes will be suspicious, and they will not believe you if you take any action in the future.
It is better to let soldiers help build the city of Zhou to cover up the princes' suspicion that you want to attack Zhou. King Liang said: OK.
So he sent troops to build the city wall of Zhou's capital.
In the forty-fifth year, Zhou Jun's guest from Qin said to Zhou Jin: Why don't you praise King Qin's filial piety and take the opportunity to dedicate the land to Qin as a place for the Queen Mother to support. King Qin will be very happy, and you will have friendship with Qin.
If the friendship is good, Zhou Jun will definitely think it is your credit; if the friendship is not good, those who persuade Zhou Jun to join Qin will definitely be punished.
When Qin went to attack Zhou, Zhou Jin said to the king of Qin: If it is for your sake, the king, don’t attack Zhou.
Attacking Zhou won't bring much benefit, but it will make your reputation feared by everyone in the world.
People all over the world are afraid because of Qin's reputation for attacking Zhou, and they will definitely go east to unite with Qi.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
兵弊於周。合天下於齐，则秦不王矣。
天下欲弊秦，劝王攻周。
秦与天下弊，则令不行矣。
五十八年，三晋距秦。
周令其相国之秦，以秦之轻也，还其行。
客谓相国曰： 秦之轻重未可知也。
秦欲知三国之情。
公不如急见秦王曰 请为王听东方之变 ，秦王必重公。
重公，是秦重周，周以取秦也；齐重，则固有周聚以收齐：是周常不失重国之交也。
秦信周，发兵攻三晋。
五十九年，秦取韩阳城负黍，西周恐，倍秦，与诸侯约从，将天下锐师出伊阙攻秦，令秦无得通阳城。
秦昭王怒，使将军摎攻西周。
西周君饹秦，顿首受罪，尽献其邑三十六，口三万。
秦受其献，归其君於周。
周君、王赧卒，周民遂东亡。
translation: 
The army was exhausted from attacking Zhou, and everyone in the world joined Qi. In this way, Qin could not unify the world and become king.
The world is hoping to deplete Qin's strength, so it persuades you to attack Zhou.
If Qin and the princes are exhausted, your orders will not be carried out.
In the fifty-eighth year, Han, Zhao, and Wei jointly resisted Qin.
Zhou sent his prime minister to Qin, but because he was afraid that Qin would despise him, he returned halfway.
A visitor said to the Prime Minister: It is not yet known whether Qin despised or valued Zhou.
Qin wanted to understand the situation of the Three Kingdoms.
Why don't you go to the King of Qin quickly and say, "Please let me inquire about the situation in the eastern countries for the King. The King of Qin will definitely pay attention to you."
If Qi values ​​you, Qin will value Zhou, and Zhou will gain Qin's trust; Qi will value Zhou, and Zhou will already be in contact with Qi. In this way, Zhou will not lose its friendship with powerful countries.
Qin trusted Zhou and sent troops to attack Han, Zhao and Wei.
In the fifty-ninth year, Qin captured Yangcheng and Fushu in South Korea. The Western Zhou Dynasty panicked and betrayed Qin. He joined forces with other princes and led the world's elite soldiers out of Yique fortress to attack Qin, preventing Qin soldiers from reaching Yangcheng.
King Zhao of Qin was furious and sent generals to attack the Western Zhou Dynasty.
The king of Western Zhou fled to Qin, kowtowed and confessed his crime, and offered all his thirty-six cities with a population of thirty thousand.
Qin accepted the offer from the king of Western Zhou and asked him to return to Zhou.
After Zhou Jun and Wang Nan died, the people of Zhou fled to the east.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
秦取九鼎宝器，而迁西周公於狐。
後七岁，秦庄襄王灭东周。
东西周皆入于秦，周既不祀。
太史公曰：学者皆称周伐纣，居洛邑，综其实不然。
武王营之，成王使召公卜居，居九鼎焉，而周复都丰、镐。
至犬戎败幽王，周乃东徙于洛邑。
所谓 周公葬毕 ，毕在镐东南杜中。
秦灭周。
汉兴九十有馀载，天子将封泰山，东巡狩至河南，求周苗裔，封其後嘉三十里地，号曰周子南君，比列侯，以奉其先祭祀。
translation: 
Qin obtained Jiuding and other valuable artifacts, and moved the king of Western Zhou to Hu.
Seven years later, King Zhuangxiang of Qin destroyed the Eastern Zhou Dynasty.
The Eastern and Western Zhou Dynasties all belonged to Qin. From then on, no one could preside over the sacrifices of the Zhou Dynasty.
Tai Shigong said: Scholars all say that Zhou conquered Shang Zhou and established its capital in Luoyi. However, comprehensive inspection of its actual situation is not the case.
Although King Wu once surveyed and built Luoyi, and King Cheng also sent Duke Zhao to divination to choose the location and place the Jiuding there, Zhou still made Feng and Hao its capitals.
It wasn't until Quan Rong defeated King You that Zhou moved eastward to Luoyi.
The so-called Duke of Zhou was buried in Bi, and Bi was in Duzhong, southeast of Hao.
It was Qin who destroyed Zhou.
More than ninety years after the establishment of the Han Dynasty, the emperor wanted to perform a ceremony of enshrining Zen in Mount Tai, go east to hunt and reach Henan County, visit the descendants of Zhou, and grant thirty miles of land to the descendants of Zhou.


