Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 4, 16, 18]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
元皇帝讳睿，字景文，宣帝曾孙，琅邪恭王觐之子也。
咸宁二年生于洛阳，有神光之异，一室尽明，所藉藁如始刈。
及长，白豪生于日角之左，隆准龙颜，目有精曜，顾眄炜如也。
年十五，嗣位琅邪王。
幼有令闻。
及惠皇之际，王室多故，帝每恭俭退让，以免于祸。
沈敏有度量，不显灼然之迹，故时人未之识焉。
惟侍中嵇绍异之，谓人曰： 琅邪王毛骨非常，殆非人臣之相也。
元康二年，拜员外散骑常侍。
累迁左将军，从讨成都王颖。荡阴之败也，叔父东安王繇为颖所害。
帝惧祸及，将出奔。
其夜月正明，而禁卫严警，帝无由得去，甚窘迫。
有顷，云雾晦冥，雷雨暴至，徼者皆驰，因得潜出。
translation: 
Emperor Yuan, whose name was Rui and whose courtesy name was Jingwen, was the great-grandson of Sima Yi, Emperor Xuan, and the son of Sima Jin, Prince Yagong of Lang.
He was born in Luoyang in the second year of Xianning. When he was born, there was a strange divine light, which illuminated the whole room. The manuscript on which he was placed looked like freshly cut grass.
When he grows up, he will have white hair on the left side of his forehead, a high bridge of nose, protruding brows, and bright eyes.
At the age of fifteen, he succeeded to the throne as King Langya.
A young man has a good reputation.
During the reign of Emperor Hui, the royal family was troubled. Emperor Yuan often maintained a thrifty and conciliatory attitude, thus avoiding disaster.
He is usually calm, smart and thoughtful, and does not show his talents easily, so he has not been recognized by people at the time.
Only the servant Ji Shao thought that he was an extraordinary person. He once told people: King Lang Yawang's hair and bones are different from ordinary people, so he is not a minister.
In the second year of Yuankang, he was appointed as a regular attendant of Yuanwai Sanqi.
Promoted to General Zuo, he participated in the crusade against Sima Ying, king of Chengdu. The king's division failed in the Battle of Dangyin, and Emperor Yuan's uncle, Sima Yao, king of Dong'an, was killed by Sima Ying.
Emperor Yuan was afraid of the impending disaster and wanted to flee elsewhere.
That night the moonlight was bright and the security was tight. Emperor Yuan was unable to escape and was in a difficult situation.
After a while, dark clouds covered the sky and thunderstorms broke out. The patrols relaxed and they were able to escape secretly.

summary:
summary line 0: Emperor Yuan, named Sima Rui, was born in Luoyang in 276 CE with auspicious signs. He succeeded as King of Langya at fifteen and maintained a cautious, thrifty demeanor during the political turmoil of Emperor Hui's reign, avoiding disaster. Initially unrecognized for his talents, only servant Ji Shao perceived his extraordinary nature. He held various military posts, including General of the Left and General of the Auxiliary State, and participated in campaigns against Sima Ying. After a failed battle, he narrowly escaped capture during a thunderstorm. Following Sima Yue's westward march, Emperor Yuan adopted Wang Dao's strategy and established his base in Jianye, winning the loyalty of Jiangdong's elite through respectful governance.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
颖先令诸关无得出贵人，帝既至河阳，为津吏所止。
从者宋典后来，以策鞭帝马而笑曰： 舍长！
官禁贵人，汝亦被拘邪！
吏乃听过。
至洛阳，迎太妃俱归国。
东海王越之收兵下邳也，假帝辅国将军。
寻加平东将军、监徐州诸军事，镇下邳。
俄迁安东将军、都督扬州诸军事。
越西迎大驾，留帝居守。
永嘉初，用王导计，始镇建鄴，以顾荣为军司马，贺循为参佐，王敦、王导、周顗、刁协并为腹心股肱，宾礼名贤，存问风俗，江东归心焉。
属太妃薨于国，自表奔丧，葬毕，还镇，增封宣城郡二万户，加镇东大将军、开府仪同三司。
受越命，讨征东将军周馥，走之。
及怀帝蒙尘于平阳，司空荀籓等移檄天下，推帝为盟主。
江州刺史华轶不从，使豫章内史周广、前江州刺史卫展讨禽之。
愍帝即位，加左丞相。
岁余，进位丞相、大都督中外诸军事。
遣诸将分定江东，斩叛者孙弼于宣城，平杜弢于湘州，承制赦荆扬。
及西都不守，帝出师露次，躬擐甲胄，移檄四方，征天下之兵，克日进讨。
translation: 
Previously, Sima Ying ordered all the passes to prevent nobles from passing through. When Emperor Yuan arrived in Heyang, he was blocked by officials at the ferry.
Attendant Song Dian came from behind, hit Emperor Yuan's horse with a whip and said with a smile: Chief of the House!
The government prohibits noble people from passing through. Are you also being detained?
The officials then let Emperor Yuan pass.
Arriving in Luoyang, he welcomed the concubine back to the feudal country.
When Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, gathered troops in Xiapi and prepared to march westward, he gave Emperor Yuan the title of General of the Auxiliary State.
Soon he added General Pingdong and the military supervisors in Xuzhou to guard Xiapi.
Soon he was promoted to General Anton and Commander-in-Chief of Yangzhou's military affairs.
Sima Yue went west to meet the emperor, leaving Emperor Yuan to stay in the east.
In the early years of Yongjia, Wang Dao's strategy was adopted and he began to guard Jianye, with Gu Rong as the military commander and He Xun as the counselor. Wang Dun, Wang Dao, Zhou Qiye, and Diao Xie were all loyal ministers who respected famous people and inspected the people's sentiments. All the scholars and people in Jiangdong were sincerely convinced.
When the concubine died in the feudal country, she went to the funeral. After the burial, she returned to Jianye and added 20,000 households to Xuancheng County's fiefdom, and added the titles of General Zhendong and Kaifu Yitong.
Under the instruction of Sima Yue, he attacked Zhou Fu, the general who conquered the east, and drove Zhou Fu away.
When Emperor Huai was kidnapped and taken to Pingyang, Sikong Xunfan and others issued a proclamation to the world, recommending Emperor Yuan as the leader of the alliance.
Hua Yi, the governor of Jiangzhou, refused to obey. Xun Fan sent Zhou Guang, the internal historian of Yuzhang, and Wei Zhan, the former governor of Jiangzhou, to attack and capture him.
After Emperor Min ascended the throne, he was given the post of Prime Minister Zuo.
More than a year later, he ascended the throne as prime minister and governor, overseeing all domestic and foreign military affairs.
He sent various generals to pacify Jiangdong respectively, beheaded the rebel general Sun Bi in Xuancheng, pacified Du in Xiangzhou, and implemented amnesty in Jingyang and Yangzhou according to the emperor's decree.
When the western capital of Chang'an fell, Emperor Yuan went on an expedition. He personally wore armor and sent messages to all directions, recruiting soldiers and horses from all over the world, and marched on an appointment date.

summary:
summary line 1: After Emperor Huai was captured, Emperor Yuan was recommended as alliance leader and later appointed Prime Minister Zuo. He pacified Jiangdong, defeating rebels like Sun Bi and Du Zeng. When Chang'an fell, he mobilized troops and received auspicious signs, including a jade seal reading "Longevity for Ten Thousand Years." In 318 CE, Emperor Min's edict authorized him to govern, and after mourning, he accepted the title of King of Jin. He ascended the throne on the ninth day of the third month, implementing a general amnesty and establishing a bureaucracy in Jiankang. He rejected auspicious omens, stating his focus on self-blame for state failures.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
石勒将石季龙围谯城，平西将军祖逖击走之。
己巳，帝傅檄天下曰： 逆贼石勒，肆虐河朔，逋诛历载，游魂纵逸。
复遣凶党石季龙犬羊之众，越河南渡，纵其鸩毒。
平西将军祖逖帅众讨击，应时溃散。
今遣车骑将军，琅邪王裒等九军，锐卒三万，水陆四道，迳造贼场，受逖节度。
有能枭季龙首者。赏绢三千匹，金五十斤，封县侯，食邑二千户。
又贼党能枭送季龙首，封赏亦同之。
七月，散骑侍郎硃嵩、尚书郎顾球卒，帝痛之，将为举哀。有司奏，旧尚书郎不在举哀之例。
帝曰： 衰乱之弊，特相痛悼。
于是遂举哀，哭之甚恸。
丁未，梁王悝薨。
以太尉荀组为司徒。
弛山泽之禁。
translation: 
Shi Le's general Shi Jilong besieged Qiaocheng, but was repulsed by Pingxi general Zu Ti.
On the 18th, Emperor Yuan sent a message to the world: The traitor Shi Le carried out a large-scale robbery in the Heshuo area. After years of crusade, he was frightened and fled far away.
However, he also sent his evil party Shi Jilong to lead a group of dogs and sheep to cross the Henan River to invade and poison the people wantonly.
General Zu Ti of Pingxi led a crusade and was immediately defeated.
Now we dispatch nine armies, including General Chariot and Cavalry, King Lang Ya and King Sima Cai, with 30,000 elite soldiers, marching by land and water to attack the thief's lair and accept the sacrifice of Zu Ti.
Anyone who can kill Shi Jilong's head will be rewarded with three thousand bolts of silk, fifty catties of gold, the title of county lord, and the food of two thousand households.
If the thieves can cut off Shi Jilong's head and send it to him, the reward will be the same as before.
In July, Zhu Song, the minister of Sanqi, and Gu Qiu, the minister, died. Emperor Yuan was very sad and planned to hold a mourning ceremony for them. Someone asked him to report that according to the old system, ministers were not included in the mourning ceremony.
Emperor Yuan said: The decline of the country has caused bad social atmosphere, and we must mourn for them specially.
So a mourning ceremony was held for them, and Emperor Yuan cried very sadly.
On the 27th, Sima Kui, the king of Liang, died.
Taiwei Xun was appointed Situ.
The ban on people entering mountains, forests, lakes and swamps for fishing and hunting was relaxed.

summary:
summary line 2: Emperor Yuan's reign faced challenges from Shi Le's invasions, repelled by General Zu Ti. He issued proclamations offering rewards for Shi Jilong's head. He mourned ministers Zhu Song and Gu Qiu despite protocol, emphasizing the need for special rites during national decline. In 319 CE, after Emperor Min's death, he assumed the imperial title, issuing edicts on governance, frugality, and moral conduct. He banned extravagant gifts and promoted merit-based evaluations. Natural disasters like droughts and earthquakes prompted personal prayers and relief efforts. He dealt with rebellions, including those by Zhou Fu and Xu Gong, and faced military defeats against Shi Le's forces.

Chunk 16: 
original: 
冬十月，大疫，死者十二三。
己丑，都督荆梁二州诸军事、平南将军、荆州刺史、武陵侯王暠卒。
辛卯，以下邳内史王邃为征北将军、都督青徐幽平四州诸军事，镇淮阴。
新昌太守梁硕起兵反。
京师大务，黑气蔽天，日月无光。
石勒攻陷襄城、城父，遂围谯，破祖约别军，约退据寿春。
十一月，以司徒荀组为太尉。
己酉，太尉荀组薨。
罢司徒，并丞相。
闰月己丑，帝崩于内殿，时年四十七，葬建平陵，庙号中宗。
帝性简俭冲素，容纳直言，虚己待物。
初镇江东，颇以酒废事，王导深以为言，帝命酌，引觞覆之，于此遂绝。
有司尝奏太极殿广室施绛帐，帝曰： 汉文集上书皁囊为帷。
遂令冬施青布，夏施青綀帷帐。
translation: 
In the tenth month of winter, a great plague occurred, killing twenty-three out of ten people.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the two states of Jingliang, General Pingnan, the governor of Jingzhou, and the Marquis of Wuling died.
On the 11th, Wang Sui, the internal history of Pi, was appointed as the general to conquer the north and the commander-in-chief of the military forces in the four prefectures of Qing, Xu, You and Ping to guard Huaiyin.
Liang Shuo, the governor of Xinchang, rebelled.
A heavy fog broke out in the capital, black air covered the sky, and the sun and moon lost light.
Shi Le captured Xiangcheng and Chengfu, then surrounded Qiao, defeated Zu Yue's other troops, and Zu Yue retreated to Shouchun.
In November, Situ Xun was appointed as Taiwei.
Jiyou, Taiwei Xunzu died.
Situ was dismissed and his duties were merged with the prime minister.
On the tenth day of the leap month, Emperor Yuan died in the inner hall at the age of forty-seven. He was buried in Jianping Mausoleum, with the temple name Zhongzong.
Emperor Yuan's character was simple, frugal and calm, able to tolerate outspokenness and treat others with humility.
When he began to guard Jiangdong, he often neglected his political affairs due to drinking. Director Wang earnestly warned him. Emperor Yuan asked Director Wang to pour a glass of wine, then picked up the cup and poured the wine away. From then on, he stopped drinking.
Someone asked a minister to hang up a red curtain in the wide room of Taiji Hall. Emperor Yuan said: Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty collected the black book bags with letters from the officials to make a curtain.
So they made curtains with green cloth in winter and green gauze in summer.

summary:
summary line 3: In 322 CE, Wang Dun rebelled, capturing Stone City and defeating imperial forces. Emperor Yuan offered to abdicate, but Wang Dun assumed dictatorial powers, killing officials like Dai Ruosi and Zhou Qiye. Emperor Yuan died in the inner hall at age forty-seven, buried in Jianping Mausoleum with the temple name Zhongzong. He was known for simplicity and frugality, once pouring away wine after Wang Dao's admonition and using plain curtains instead of expensive ones. He refused costly gifts for his concubine and discouraged excessive construction. However, his reign was plagued by weak military control and internal strife, leading to his death from sorrow and anger.

Chunk 18: 
original: 
咸宁初，风吹太社树折，社中有青气，占者以为东莞有帝者之祥。由是徙封东莞王于琅邪，即武王也。
及吴之亡，王濬实先至建鄴，而皓之降款，远归玺于琅邪。
天意人事，又符中兴之兆。
太安之际，童谣云： 五马浮渡江，一马化为龙。
及永嘉中，岁、镇、荧惑、太白聚斗、牛之间，识者以为吴越之地当兴王者。
是岁，王室沦覆，帝与西阳、汝南、南顿、彭城五王获济，而帝竟登大位焉。
初，玄石图有 牛继马后 ，故宣帝深忌牛氏，遂为二榼，共一口，以贮酒焉，帝先饮佳者，而以毒酒鸩其将牛金。
史臣曰：维扬作宇，凭带洪流，楚江恆战，方城对敌，不得不推诚将相，以总戎麾。
楼船万计，兵倍王室，处其利而无心者，周公其人也。
威权外假，嫌隙内兴，彼有顺流之师，此无强籓之援。
商逢九乱，尧止八音，明皇负图，属在兹日。
translation: 
In the early years of Xianning, the Taishe tree was blown down by the wind, and green air came out of the society. The fortune teller believed that there was a good omen for the emperor in Dongguan, so he moved the King of Dongguan to the title of Langwang Yawang. This was Emperor Yuan's grandfather, Langwang Yawu King Sima Qianyou.
In the battle to destroy Wu, Wang Jun actually arrived in Jianye first, but when Sun Hao surrendered, he gave the jade seal to Sima Qinyou's military camp, which was far away from Jianye.
God's will and human affairs are in line with the auspicious omen of ZTE.
During the Tai'an period of Emperor Hui, there was a nursery rhyme that said: Five horses floated across the river, and one horse turned into a dragon.
During the Yongjia period of Emperor Huai, stars such as Sui, Zhen, Yinghuo, and Taibai gathered between Dou and Niu. People who knew the stars thought that a king should rise in the land of Wuyue.
In this year, the royal family of the Central Plains overthrew. Emperor Yuan and the kings of Xiyang, Runan, Nanton, and Pengcheng crossed the river south, and Emperor Yuan finally ascended the throne.
At the beginning, there was a saying in "Xuanshi Diagram" that "Niu follows the horse", so Emperor Xuan Yi Sima Yi was deeply jealous of the Niu family, so he made a wine vessel with only one mouth that could hold two kinds of wine. He drank the wine first, and then poured the poisoned wine to his general Niu Jin and poisoned him to death.
However, Xiahou, the concubine of King Sima Jin of King Yagong of Lang, actually had an affair with a minor official named Niu and gave birth to Emperor Yuan. Some people say that this is the talisman of "Niu succeeds Ma". Shi Chen said: With the land of Weiyang as its territory and the torrent of the Yangtze River as its support, there are often wars in the Chu River basin and Fangcheng is often a battlefield, so we have to sincerely trust the generals to lead the army.
With tens of thousands of warships and a military force that is twice that of the royal family, those who are in such a position and have no intention of usurping the country are people like Duke Zhou.
The country's authority is borrowed by outsiders, and feuds arise internally. There is an army taking advantage of the situation over there, but there is no powerful feudal state to back it up.
The Shang Dynasty encountered nine chaos, Yao suppressed the Eight Sounds, and the auspicious occasion of Emperor Ming's appointment appeared on this day.

summary:
summary line 4: Historical accounts note prophecies of imperial destiny in Jinling, fulfilled when Emperor Yuan crossed the Yangtze River 526 years after Qin Shihuang. A nursery rhyme about five horses crossing the river symbolized the southern migration of kings, with Emperor Yuan becoming the dragon. Rumors suggested his birth resulted from an affair, fulfilling the "ox succeeds the horse" prophecy. Despite initial successes, the state's reliance on powerful generals led to internal conflicts, and Emperor Yuan's efforts to restore order ultimately failed, with later historians attributing the dynasty's decline to fate and flawed succession.

