Chunk 0: 
original: 
元皇帝讳睿，字景文，宣帝曾孙，琅邪恭王觐之子也。
咸宁二年生于洛阳，有神光之异，一室尽明，所藉藁如始刈。
及长，白豪生于日角之左，隆准龙颜，目有精曜，顾眄炜如也。
年十五，嗣位琅邪王。
幼有令闻。
及惠皇之际，王室多故，帝每恭俭退让，以免于祸。
沈敏有度量，不显灼然之迹，故时人未之识焉。
惟侍中嵇绍异之，谓人曰： 琅邪王毛骨非常，殆非人臣之相也。
元康二年，拜员外散骑常侍。
累迁左将军，从讨成都王颖。荡阴之败也，叔父东安王繇为颖所害。
帝惧祸及，将出奔。
其夜月正明，而禁卫严警，帝无由得去，甚窘迫。
有顷，云雾晦冥，雷雨暴至，徼者皆驰，因得潜出。
translation: 
Emperor Yuan, whose name was Rui and whose courtesy name was Jingwen, was the great-grandson of Sima Yi, Emperor Xuan, and the son of Sima Jin, Prince Yagong of Lang.
He was born in Luoyang in the second year of Xianning. When he was born, there was a strange divine light, which illuminated the whole room. The manuscript on which he was placed looked like freshly cut grass.
When he grows up, he will have white hair on the left side of his forehead, a high bridge of nose, protruding brows, and bright eyes.
At the age of fifteen, he succeeded to the throne as King Langya.
A young man has a good reputation.
During the reign of Emperor Hui, the royal family was troubled. Emperor Yuan often maintained a thrifty and conciliatory attitude, thus avoiding disaster.
He is usually calm, smart and thoughtful, and does not show his talents easily, so he has not been recognized by people at the time.
Only the servant Ji Shao thought that he was an extraordinary person. He once told people: King Lang Yawang's hair and bones are different from ordinary people, so he is not a minister.
In the second year of Yuankang, he was appointed as a regular attendant of Yuanwai Sanqi.
Promoted to General Zuo, he participated in the crusade against Sima Ying, king of Chengdu. The king's division failed in the Battle of Dangyin, and Emperor Yuan's uncle, Sima Yao, king of Dong'an, was killed by Sima Ying.
Emperor Yuan was afraid of the impending disaster and wanted to flee elsewhere.
That night the moonlight was bright and the security was tight. Emperor Yuan was unable to escape and was in a difficult situation.
After a while, dark clouds covered the sky and thunderstorms broke out. The patrols relaxed and they were able to escape secretly.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
颖先令诸关无得出贵人，帝既至河阳，为津吏所止。
从者宋典后来，以策鞭帝马而笑曰： 舍长！
官禁贵人，汝亦被拘邪！
吏乃听过。
至洛阳，迎太妃俱归国。
东海王越之收兵下邳也，假帝辅国将军。
寻加平东将军、监徐州诸军事，镇下邳。
俄迁安东将军、都督扬州诸军事。
越西迎大驾，留帝居守。
永嘉初，用王导计，始镇建鄴，以顾荣为军司马，贺循为参佐，王敦、王导、周顗、刁协并为腹心股肱，宾礼名贤，存问风俗，江东归心焉。
属太妃薨于国，自表奔丧，葬毕，还镇，增封宣城郡二万户，加镇东大将军、开府仪同三司。
受越命，讨征东将军周馥，走之。
及怀帝蒙尘于平阳，司空荀籓等移檄天下，推帝为盟主。
江州刺史华轶不从，使豫章内史周广、前江州刺史卫展讨禽之。
愍帝即位，加左丞相。
岁余，进位丞相、大都督中外诸军事。
遣诸将分定江东，斩叛者孙弼于宣城，平杜弢于湘州，承制赦荆扬。
及西都不守，帝出师露次，躬擐甲胄，移檄四方，征天下之兵，克日进讨。
translation: 
Previously, Sima Ying ordered all the passes to prevent nobles from passing through. When Emperor Yuan arrived in Heyang, he was blocked by officials at the ferry.
Attendant Song Dian came from behind, hit Emperor Yuan's horse with a whip and said with a smile: Chief of the House!
The government prohibits noble people from passing through. Are you also being detained?
The officials then let Emperor Yuan pass.
Arriving in Luoyang, he welcomed the concubine back to the feudal country.
When Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, gathered troops in Xiapi and prepared to march westward, he gave Emperor Yuan the title of General of the Auxiliary State.
Soon he added General Pingdong and the military supervisors in Xuzhou to guard Xiapi.
Soon he was promoted to General Anton and Commander-in-Chief of Yangzhou's military affairs.
Sima Yue went west to meet the emperor, leaving Emperor Yuan to stay in the east.
In the early years of Yongjia, Wang Dao's strategy was adopted and he began to guard Jianye, with Gu Rong as the military commander and He Xun as the counselor. Wang Dun, Wang Dao, Zhou Qiye, and Diao Xie were all loyal ministers who respected famous people and inspected the people's sentiments. All the scholars and people in Jiangdong were sincerely convinced.
When the concubine died in the feudal country, she went to the funeral. After the burial, she returned to Jianye and added 20,000 households to Xuancheng County's fiefdom, and added the titles of General Zhendong and Kaifu Yitong.
Under the instruction of Sima Yue, he attacked Zhou Fu, the general who conquered the east, and drove Zhou Fu away.
When Emperor Huai was kidnapped and taken to Pingyang, Sikong Xunfan and others issued a proclamation to the world, recommending Emperor Yuan as the leader of the alliance.
Hua Yi, the governor of Jiangzhou, refused to obey. Xun Fan sent Zhou Guang, the internal historian of Yuzhang, and Wei Zhan, the former governor of Jiangzhou, to attack and capture him.
After Emperor Min ascended the throne, he was given the post of Prime Minister Zuo.
More than a year later, he ascended the throne as prime minister and governor, overseeing all domestic and foreign military affairs.
He sent various generals to pacify Jiangdong respectively, beheaded the rebel general Sun Bi in Xuancheng, pacified Du in Xiangzhou, and implemented amnesty in Jingyang and Yangzhou according to the emperor's decree.
When the western capital of Chang'an fell, Emperor Yuan went on an expedition. He personally wore armor and sent messages to all directions, recruiting soldiers and horses from all over the world, and marched on an appointment date.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
于时有玉册见于临安，白玉麒麟神玺出于江宁，其文曰 长寿万年 ，日有重晕，皆以为中兴之象焉。
建武元年春二月辛巳，平东将军宋哲至，宣愍帝诏曰： 遭运迍否，皇纲不振。
朕以寡德，奉承洪绪，不能祈天永命，绍隆中兴，至使凶胡敢帅犬羊，逼迫京辇。
朕今幽塞穷城，忧虑万端，恐一旦崩溃。
卿指诏丞相，具宣朕意，使摄万机，时据旧都，修复陵庙，以雪大耻。
三月，帝素服出次，举哀三日。
帝慨然流涕曰： 孤，罪人也，惟有蹈节死义，以雪天下之耻，庶赎鈇钺之诛。
吾本琅邪王，诸贤见逼不已！
乃呼私奴命驾，将反国。
translation: 
At this time, a jade album was discovered in Lin'an, and a white jade divine seal engraved with a unicorn was found in Jiangning. The text engraved on the seal was "Longevity for Ten Thousand Years". The sun appeared with two haloes. Everyone thought this was a sign that the country would be rejuvenated.
On February 28, the first year of Emperor Jianwu's reign in the Yuan Dynasty, Pingdong General Song Zhe came to Jiankang and read out an imperial edict from Emperor Min, saying: Facing difficult times, the royal family's political order has declined.
Because of my lack of virtue and hope, after inheriting the great cause, I could not ask God to protect the Jin Dynasty forever and revive the royal industry, so that the ferocious Hu people dared to lead their dogs and sheep to persecute the royal family in the capital.
I am now imprisoned in a poor frontier city, worried about everything, and my life is hanging by a thread.
Qing met with the Prime Minister and announced my intention to have the Prime Minister take charge of the government, restore the old capital as soon as possible, repair the ancestral temple and mausoleum, and avoid the great shame of the country.
In March, Emperor Yuan wore white clothes and went to the countryside to mourn for three days.
Sima Yi, King of Xiyang, as well as a group of officials, counselors, and governors of the state, requested Emperor Yuan to add a title, but Emperor Yuan refused. Sima Yi and others repeatedly begged to death, and Emperor Yuan sighed with tears: I am a sinner! Only by dying righteously and bringing shame to the world can one atone for the crime of dereliction of duty.
I am the King of Lang Ya, and I am constantly being persecuted by all the sages!
So he immediately called his personal servant to arrange a vehicle and prepare to return to the feudal country.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
群臣乃不敢逼，请依魏晋故事为晋王，许之。
辛卯，即王位，大赦，改元。
其杀祖父母、父母，及刘聪、石勒，不从此令。
诸参军拜奉车都尉，掾属驸马都尉。辟掾属百余人，时人谓之 百六掾 。
乃备百官，立宗庙社稷于建康。
时四方竞上符瑞，帝曰： 孤负四海之责，未能思愆，何徵祥之有？
丙辰，立世子绍为晋王太子。
以抚军大将军、西阳王羕为太保，征南大将军、汉安侯王敦为大将军，右将军王导都督中外诸军事、骠骑将军，左长史刁协为尚书左仆射。
封王子宣城公裒琅邪王。
帝优令答之。语在琨传。
translation: 
The ministers did not dare to force him anymore, and asked him to respect Emperor Yuan as King of Jin according to the precedent of Wei and Jin Dynasty. Emperor Yuan agreed.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, the throne was enthroned, a general amnesty was implemented, and the reign name was changed to Jianwu.
Those who killed their grandparents and parents, as well as Liu Cong and Shi Le, were not included in the amnesty.
It turned out that the soldiers who joined the army were worshiped as the Captain of Fengche, and the subordinates were worshiped as the Commander-in-Chief of the Prince Consort. More than a hundred people from the subordinates were promoted, which people called "Hundred Six Pears" at that time.
So he set up hundreds of officials and built an ancestral temple and a community in Jiankang.
At that time, various places competed to offer auspicious things and report auspicious omens. Emperor Yuan said: I shoulder the great responsibility of the world, and I fail to blame myself for my mistakes. What auspicious omen can be said.
On the fourth day of April, his son Sima Shao was made the crown prince of Jin Dynasty.
Sima, the general of the Fu Army and King of Xiyang, was the Taibao; the general of Zhengnan and Wang Dun, the Marquis of Han'an, was the general; the right general Wang Dao was the governor of the Chinese and foreign military forces and the hussar general; the left commander Shi Diao Xie was the minister Zuopushe.
He named his son Ma Fei of Xuancheng Company as King of Lang Ya.
On June 15, Sikong, the governor of Bingzhou, Liu Kun, the Marquis of Guangwu, the governor of Youzhou, King Zuoxian, and Duke Duan of Bohai, Pi Shidan, were escorted by Colonel Wu Wan, General Zhenbei Liu Han, Chanyu, Duke Duan Chen of Guangning, and the family members of Duke Duan of Liaoxi. One hundred and eighty people, including the governor of Jizhou, Zhu Azi Shaoxu, the governor of Qingzhou and the Marquis of Guangrao, Cao Yi, the governor of Yanzhou and the Marquis of Dingxiang, Liu Yan, the captain of Dongyi School, Cui Ao, and the governor of Xianbei, Murong Chen, wrote a letter to persuade the Yuan Emperor to ascend the throne. Emperor Yuan wrote a letter to reply to the generals, encourage and comfort them, and the article is in "The Biography of Liu Kun".


Chunk 4: 
original: 
石勒将石季龙围谯城，平西将军祖逖击走之。
己巳，帝傅檄天下曰： 逆贼石勒，肆虐河朔，逋诛历载，游魂纵逸。
复遣凶党石季龙犬羊之众，越河南渡，纵其鸩毒。
平西将军祖逖帅众讨击，应时溃散。
今遣车骑将军，琅邪王裒等九军，锐卒三万，水陆四道，迳造贼场，受逖节度。
有能枭季龙首者。赏绢三千匹，金五十斤，封县侯，食邑二千户。
又贼党能枭送季龙首，封赏亦同之。
七月，散骑侍郎硃嵩、尚书郎顾球卒，帝痛之，将为举哀。有司奏，旧尚书郎不在举哀之例。
帝曰： 衰乱之弊，特相痛悼。
于是遂举哀，哭之甚恸。
丁未，梁王悝薨。
以太尉荀组为司徒。
弛山泽之禁。
translation: 
Shi Le's general Shi Jilong besieged Qiaocheng, but was repulsed by Pingxi general Zu Ti.
On the 18th, Emperor Yuan sent a message to the world: The traitor Shi Le carried out a large-scale robbery in the Heshuo area. After years of crusade, he was frightened and fled far away.
However, he also sent his evil party Shi Jilong to lead a group of dogs and sheep to cross the Henan River to invade and poison the people wantonly.
General Zu Ti of Pingxi led a crusade and was immediately defeated.
Now we dispatch nine armies, including General Chariot and Cavalry, King Lang Ya and King Sima Cai, with 30,000 elite soldiers, marching by land and water to attack the thief's lair and accept the sacrifice of Zu Ti.
Anyone who can kill Shi Jilong's head will be rewarded with three thousand bolts of silk, fifty catties of gold, the title of county lord, and the food of two thousand households.
If the thieves can cut off Shi Jilong's head and send it to him, the reward will be the same as before.
In July, Zhu Song, the minister of Sanqi, and Gu Qiu, the minister, died. Emperor Yuan was very sad and planned to hold a mourning ceremony for them. Someone asked him to report that according to the old system, ministers were not included in the mourning ceremony.
Emperor Yuan said: The decline of the country has caused bad social atmosphere, and we must mourn for them specially.
So a mourning ceremony was held for them, and Emperor Yuan cried very sadly.
On the 27th, Sima Kui, the king of Liang, died.
Taiwei Xun was appointed Situ.
The ban on people entering mountains, forests, lakes and swamps for fishing and hunting was relaxed.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
八月甲午，封梁王世子翘为梁王。
荆州刺史第五猗为贼帅杜曾所推，遂与曾同反。
九月戊寅，王敦使武昌太守赵诱、襄阳太守硃轨、陵江将军黄峻讨猗，为其将杜曾所败，诱等皆死之。
石勒害京兆太守华谞。
梁州刺史周访讨杜曾，大破之。
十月丁未，琅邪王裒薨。
十一月甲子，封汝南王子弼为新蔡王。
丁卯，以司空刘琨为太尉。
置史官，立太学。
是岁，扬州大旱。
太兴元年春正月戊申朔，临朝，悬而不乐。
三月癸丑，愍帝崩问至，帝斩缞居庐。
丙辰，百僚上尊号。
令曰： 孤以不德，当厄运之极，臣节未立，匡救未举，夙夜所以忘寝食也。
translation: 
On August 15, Sima Qiao, the eldest son of King Liang, was granted the title of King of Liang.
Fifth Yi, the governor of Jingzhou, was recommended by the bandit leader Du Zeng, so he rebelled with Du Zeng.
On September 29, Wang Dun sent Wuchang prefect Zhao You, Xiangyang prefect Zhu Gui, and Lingjiang general Huang Jun to attack Wu Yi. They were defeated by Wu Yi's general Du Zeng, and Zhao You and others died in the battle.
Shi Le killed Hua Xuanxu, the governor of Jingzhao.
Zhou, the governor of Liangzhou, visited Du Zeng and defeated him.
On October 29th, Sima Xi, the king of Langya, died.
On November 16, Sima Bi, the son of King Runan, was granted the title of King of Xincai.
On the 19th, Sikong Liu Kun was appointed as Taiwei.
Historians were appointed in the court and Imperial College was established.
This year there was a severe drought in Yangzhou.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Daxing Dynasty, when meeting with ministers before the court, musical instruments were hung instead of being played.
On the seventh day of March, news of Emperor Min's death came. Emperor Yuan wore mourning clothes and stayed in his house to mourn.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, the ministers requested to be given the title of emperor.
Emperor Yuan ordered: Because I have no high virtue, when the country's crisis reached its peak, I failed to serve the country as a minister and did not act to save the country. This is why I am restless day and night and forget to eat and sleep.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
今宗庙废绝，亿兆无系，群官庶尹，咸勉之以大政，亦何敢辞，辄敬从所执。
是日，即皇帝位。
诏曰： 昔我高祖宣皇帝，诞应期运，廓开王基。景、文皇帝，奕世重光，缉熙诸夏。
爰暨世祖，应天顺时，受兹明命。功格天地，仁济宇宙。
昊天不融，降此鞠凶，怀帝短世，越去王都。
天祸荐臻，大行皇帝崩殂，社稷无奉。
肆群后三司六事之人，畴咨庶尹，至于华戎，致葺大命于朕躬。
予一人畏天之威，用弗敢违。
遂登坛南狱，受终文祖，焚柴颁瑞，告类上帝。
惟朕寡德，缵我洪绪，若涉大川，罔知攸济。
惟尔股肱爪牙之佐，文武熊罴之臣，用能弼宁晋室，辅余一人。
思与万国，共同休庆。
于是大赦，改元，文武增位二等。
庚午，立王太子绍为皇太子。
其有政绩可述，刑狱得中，人无怨讼，久而日新，及当官软弱，茹柔吐刚，行身秽浊，修饰时誉者，各以名闻。
令在事之人，仰鉴前烈，同心戮力，深思所以宽众息役，惠益百姓，无废朕命。远近礼贽，一切断之。
translation: 
Nowadays, the ancestral temple is in ruins and hundreds of millions of people have nothing to rely on. Hundreds of officials and ministers encourage me to take on the important political responsibilities of the country. I dare not refuse, so I will listen to everyone's opinions.
That day he became emperor.
The edict said: In the past, my great ancestor Emperor Xuan complied with the destiny and opened up the royal foundation. Emperor Jing and Emperor Wen continued to carry forward the ancestral inheritance and harmonize China.
When Shizu arrived, he accepted the Zen and ascended the throne in accordance with the will of heaven. His merits were equal to those of heaven and earth, and his benevolence spread throughout the universe.
However, God was unaware and brought disaster. Emperor Huai stayed away from his old capital and died early in a foreign land.
Another natural calamity struck. Emperor Daxing passed away, leaving no one to worship the emperor.
The people in charge of the three departments and six affairs at the back of the group consulted with the officials and the people, and the Chinese Rong and Di all agreed to give me their great orders.
I am afraid of the power of heaven, so I dare not violate it.
Then he climbed to the south of the altar and was ordered to continue the legacy of the late emperor, burn firewood to offer sacrifices to heaven, and promulgate the auspicious calendar.
It’s just that I have little moral aspirations. Carrying on this great cause is like facing a vast river and I don’t know how to cross it.
Only you, those of you who are loyal and loyal, and have powerful civil and military officials, can help stabilize the Jin Dynasty and assist me.
I hope to enjoy a peaceful and prosperous age with all nations.
So a general amnesty was implemented, the reign title was changed, and civil and military officials were given second-class titles.
On the 24th, the crown prince Sima Shao was made the crown prince.
On the 26th, an edict was issued saying: In the past, politicians used actions instead of words to inspire people, and they followed the destiny with facts instead of literary talent. Therefore, I am quiet and have few desires, while others can take care of themselves.
Secondly, listen to his words and observe his actions, and evaluate a person's merits by his performance. Those who have outstanding political achievements, fair punishments, and no complaints from the people, who have been in office for a long time but are as diligent as ever, as well as those who are weak in office, bully the weak, fear the hard, behave dirty, and resort to deceit to win reputation, let their names be announced, so that the current officials can learn from the examples of the previous generations, work together, remember that they are lenient for the government, reduce their corvee, and benefit the people, and do not abandon my edict. Stop giving gifts.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
夏四月丁丑朔，日有食之。
加大将军王敦江州牧，进骠骑将军王导开府仪同三司。
戊寅，初禁招魂葬。
乙酉，西平地震。
五月癸丑，使持节、侍中、都督、太尉、并州刺史、广武侯刘琨为段匹磾所害。
六月，旱，帝亲雩。
改丹阳内史为丹阳尹。
甲申，以尚书左仆射刁协为尚书令，平南将军、曲陵公荀崧为尚书左仆射。
庚寅，以荥阳太守李矩为都督司州诸军事、司州刺史。
戊戌，封皇子晞为武陵王。
初置谏鼓谤木。
秋七月戊申，诏曰： 王室多故，奸凶肆暴，皇纲驰坠，颠覆大猷。朕以不德，统承洪绪，夙夜忧危，思改其弊。
二千石令长当祗奉旧宪，正身明法，抑齐豪强，存恤孤独，隐实户口，劝课农桑。
州牧刺史当互相检察，不得顾私亏公。长吏有志在奉公而不见进用者，有贪惏秽浊而以财势自安者，若有不举，当受故纵蔽善之罪，有而不知，当受暗塞之责。
各明慎奉行。
translation: 
On the first day of April in summer, there is a solar eclipse.
The general Wang Dun was given the official position of Jiangzhou Mu. General Wang Daojin was appointed as the Kaifu Yitong Third Division.
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, soul summoning and burial were banned.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, there was an earthquake in Xiping.
On the eighth day of the fifth lunar month, the envoy Chijie, the Shizhong, the governor, the Taiwei, the governor of Bingzhou, and the Marquis of Guangwu Liu Kun were killed by Duan Pi Shidan.
In June, there was a drought, so Emperor Yuan personally offered sacrifices to pray for rain.
The internal history of Danyang was changed to Danyang Yin.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Shangshu Zuopushe Diao Xie was appointed as Shangshuling, and General Pingnan and Duke Quling Xunsong were appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe.
On the 15th, Li Ju, the governor of Xingyang, was appointed as the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Sizhou and the governor of Sizhou.
On the 23rd, the prince Sima Xi was named King of Wuling.
Start setting up drums and wood.
On the fourth day of the seventh lunar month in the autumn, an edict was issued saying: The royal family has frequent disasters, traitors are wreaking havoc, the rules and regulations are ruined, and the road is not good. I, as a man of weak virtue, will inherit the great cause, and I am worried day and night, hoping to eliminate its disadvantages.
Local officials such as county magistrates and county magistrates should adhere to the old system, clean themselves up, strictly enforce the law, restrain arrogance, care for loneliness, verify household registration, and encourage and supervise farming.
The governors and governors of the state should check each other, and should not be concerned about personal gain or harming the public. If there is someone among the county magistrates who is dedicated to serving the public good but is not promoted and important, or there is someone who is an official who is greedy and behaves filthy but gets away with it because of his wealth and power, if he does not report it, he should be guilty of deliberately indulging evil people and covering up good people. If there is such a situation and he is not aware of it, he should be responsible for being dim and unclear.
All officials must clearly and carefully implement this edict.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
刘聪死，其子粲嗣伪位。
八月，冀、徐、青三州蝗。
靳准弑刘粲，自号汉王。
冬十月癸未，加广州刺史陶侃平南将军。
刘曜僭即皇帝位于赤壁。
十一月乙卯，日夜出，高三丈，中有赤青珥。
新蔡王弼薨。
加大将军王敦荆州牧。
庚申，诏曰： 朕以寡德，纂承洪绪，上不能调和阴阳，下不能济育群生，灾异屡兴，咎徵仍见。
壬子、乙卯，雷震暴雨，盖天灾谴戒，所以彰朕之不德也。
群公卿士，其各上封事，具陈得失，无有所讳，将亲览焉。
新作听讼观。
故归命侯孙皓子璠谋反，伏诛。
十二月，刘聪故将王腾、马忠等诛靳准，送传国玺于刘曜。
武昌地震。
丁丑，封显义亭侯焕为琅邪王。
己卯，琅邪王焕薨。
translation: 
Liu Cong died, and his son Liu Can succeeded to the throne of the puppet emperor.
In August, locust plague occurred in Hebei, Xu and Qingzhou.
Jin Zhun killed Liu Can and proclaimed himself King of Han.
On the tenth day of the tenth lunar month in winter, Tao Kan, the governor of Guangzhou, was promoted to the rank of Southern General.
Liu Yao assumed the throne of emperor in Chibi.
On November 13th, the sun rose at night, three feet above the ground, and there was a red-green halo in the middle of the day.
Sima Bi, the new king of Cai, died.
General Wang Dun was added to the post of Jingzhou Mu.
On the 18th, an edict was issued saying: I, as a man of poor virtue, will inherit the great cause of the world. I cannot harmonize the yin and yang climate above, and cannot nourish the people below. Disasters and strange phenomena occur frequently, and ominous omens appear many times.
On the 10th and 13th of this month, there were thunderstorms and heavy rains. This was probably God's punishment as a disaster to show my immorality.
The public and ministers can each report secretly and state the political gains and losses in detail. Don't be shy about it. I will read it myself.
A new concept of hearing lawsuits was established.
Therefore, Sun Fan, the son of Gui Ming Hou Sun Hao, rebelled and was executed.
In December, Liu Cong's generals Wang Teng, Ma Zhong and others killed Jin Zhun and gave the imperial seal to Liu Yao.
Wuchang earthquake.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Sima Huan, the Marquis of Xianyi Pavilion, was granted the title of King of Ya of Langwang.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Sima Huan, king of Langyi, died.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
癸巳，诏曰： 汉高经大梁，美无忌之贤；齐师入鲁，修柳下惠之墓。
其吴之高德名贤或未旌录者，具条列以闻。
江东三郡饥，遣使振给之。
彭城内史周抚杀沛国内史周默以反。
二年春正月丁卯，崇阳陵毁，帝素服哭三日；使冠军将军梁堪、守太常马龟等修复山陵。
迎梓宫于平阳，不克而还。
二月，太山太守徐龛斩周抚，传首京师。
夏四月，龙骧将军陈川以浚仪叛。降于石勒。
太山太守徐龛以郡叛，自号兗州刺史，寇济岱。
秦州刺史陈安叛，降于刘曜。
五月癸丑，太阳陵毁，帝素服哭三日。
徐杨及江西诸郡蝗。
吴郡大饥。
平北将军祖逖及石勒将石季龙战于浚仪，王师败绩。
壬戌，诏曰： 天下凋弊，加以灾荒，百姓困穷，国用并匮，吴郡饥人死者百数。
translation: 
On the 21st, an edict was issued saying: The emperor of the Han Dynasty passed by Daliang and praised Lord Xinling for his virtue; the Qi army entered the state of Lu and repaired the tomb of Liu Xiahui.
Those virtuous and famous sages in Wu who were not commended or hired were listed on the list.
A famine occurred in the three counties of Jiangdong, and envoys were sent to relieve the victims.
Zhou Fu, the internal historian of Pengcheng, killed Zhou Mozao, the internal historian of Pei.
On the twenty-sixth day of the first lunar month in the spring of the second year, the Chongyang Mausoleum collapsed. Emperor Yuan wore white clothes and cried for three days. He asked the champion general Liang Kan, the governor Chang Magui and others to repair the mausoleum.
He sent people to Pingyang to meet the coffin of Emperor Huaimin, but was blocked and returned.
In February, Xu Gong, the prefect of Taishan, beheaded the rebellious minister Zhou Fu, and his head was passed to the capital.
In April of Xia, Longxiang general Chen Chuan occupied Junyi and rebelled, surrendering to Shile.
Xu Gong, the governor of Taishan, rebelled in his own county, claiming to be the governor of Yanzhou, and invaded Jidai.
Chen An, the governor of Qinzhou, rebelled and surrendered to Liu Yao.
On May 13th, the Tomb of the Sun collapsed, and Emperor Yuan wore white clothes and cried for three days.
A locust plague occurred in Xuyang and other counties in Jiangxi.
A great famine occurred in Wu County.
Pingbei general Zu Ti fought with Shi Le's general Shi Jilong in Junyi, and Zu Ti was defeated.
On the 22nd, an edict was issued saying: The world is in decline, famines have recurred, the people are poor, the state is short of supplies, and hundreds of people in Wu County have died of starvation.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
天生蒸黎而树之以君，选建明哲以左右之，当深思以救其弊。
昔吴起为楚悼王明法审令，捐不急之官，除废公族疏远，以附益将士，而国富兵强。
况今日之弊，百姓凋困邪！
且当去非急之务，非军事所须者皆省之。
甲子，梁州刺史访及杜曾战于武当，斩之，禽第五猗。
六月丙子，加周访安南将军。罢御府及诸郡丞，置博士员五人。
己亥，加太常贺循开府仪同三司。
秋七月乙丑，太常贺循卒。
八月，肃慎献楛矢石砮。
徐龛寇东莞，遣太子左卫率羊鉴行征虏将军，统徐州刺史蔡豹讨之。
冬十月，平北将军祖逖使督护陈超袭石勒将桃豹，超败，没于阵。
十一月戊寅，石勒僭即王位，国号赵。
十二月乙亥，大赦，诏百官各上封事，并省众役。
translation: 
The people are born to be the people, and they set up kings and leaders for them, and select wise and wise people as their left and right ministers. They should think deeply to save the people's emergencies.
In the past, Wu Qi reviewed and drafted laws for King Chu Mourning, reduced the number of officials who were not in urgent need, and abolished alienated clans, so as to increase the treatment of soldiers, thus making the country rich and powerful.
What's more, the country is in such decline and the people are so poor!
Things that are not urgently needed should be abandoned, and everything that is not needed by the army should be omitted.
On the 23rd, Zhou Fang, the governor of Liangzhou, fought with Du Zeng in Wudang, killed Du Zeng and captured Wu Yi alive.
On the seventh day of the sixth lunar month, Zhou visited the general in Annan, abolished the imperial government and all the county magistrates, and appointed five doctors.
On the 28th, Taichang Hexun was given the title of Kaifu Yitong Sansi.
On the twenty-sixth day of the seventh month in autumn, Taishang congratulated Xun on his death.
In the eighth month, Su Shen came to offer a wooden crossbow with a bitter arrow and a stone crossbow.
When Xu Gong captured Dongguan, Emperor Yuan sent the crown prince Zuo Wei to lead Yang Jian, who was also the general who conquered the captives, and led Cai Bao, the governor of Xuzhou, to attack Xu Gong.
In the tenth month of winter, Pingbei general Zu Ti sent the governor Chen Chao to attack Shi Le's general Tao Bao. Chen Chao was defeated and died on the battlefield.
In the eleventh month of the 11th month of the lunar month, Shi Le was crowned king and the country was named Zhao.
On the ninth day of the twelfth lunar month, a general amnesty was implemented, and an edict was issued to allow all officials to perform their duties in secret, exempting the people from all kinds of corvee services.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
鲜卑慕容廆袭辽东，东夷校尉、平州刺史崔毖奔高句骊。
是岁，南阳王保称晋王于祁山。三吴大饥。
三年春正月丁酉朔，晋王保为刘曜所逼，迁于桑城。
二月辛未，石勒将石季龙寇厌次，平北将军、冀州刺史邵续击之，续败，没于阵。
三月，慕容廆奉送玉玺三纽。
闰月，以尚书周顗为尚书仆射。
夏四月壬辰，枉矢流于翼轸。
五月丙寅，孝怀帝太子诠遇害于平阳，帝三日哭。
庚寅，地震。
是月，晋王保为其将张春所害。
刘曜使陈安攻春，灭之，安因叛曜。
石勒将徐龛帅众来降。
六月，大水。
丁酉，盗杀西中郎将、护羌校尉、凉州刺史、西平公张寔，寔弟茂嗣，领平西将军、凉州刺史。
translation: 
Murong Zhen of Xianbei attacked Liaodong, and Cui Ao, the captain of Dongyi and the governor of Pingzhou, defected to Gaoguli.
In this year, Nanyang King Sima Bao proclaimed himself King of Jin in Qishan. A great famine occurred in Sanwu.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the spring of the third year, King Sima Bao of Jin Dynasty was forced to move to Sangcheng by Liu Yao.
On the sixth day of February, Shi Le's general Shi Jilong invaded Mao Quanci. General Pingbei and Jizhou governor Shao Xu attacked Shi Jilong, but was defeated by Shi Jilong and died on the battlefield.
In March, Murong Zhen sent three jade seals.
In the leap month, Shangshu Zhou Qiye is Shangshu Pushe.
In the fourth month of summer, on Renchen, the Wan Ya star flows between the Yi Zhen stars.
On the third day of the fifth lunar month, Sima Quan, the crown prince of Xiaohuai Emperor, was killed in Pingyang, and Emperor Yuan mourned for three days.
On the 27th, there was an earthquake.
This month, King Sima Bao of Jin was killed by his general Zhang Chun.
Liu Yao sent Chen An to attack Zhang Chun and eliminate Zhang Chun, but Chen An took the opportunity to betray Liu Yao.
Xu Gong, a general of Shile's tribe, led his troops to surrender.
In June, there was a flood.
On the fourth day of the Lunar New Year, General Xizhong Lang, Colonel Protector of Qiang, Governor of Liangzhou, and Duke Pingxi Zhang Shi were killed by thieves. Zhang Shi's younger brother Zhang Mao succeeded to the throne and was appointed General Pingxi and Governor of Liangzhou.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
秋七月丁亥，诏曰： 先公武王、先考恭王临君琅邪四十余年，惠泽加于百姓，遗爱结于人情。
朕应天符，创基江表，兆庶宅心，襁负子来。
琅邪国人在此者近有千户，今立为怀德县，统丹阳郡。
昔汉高祖以沛为汤沐邑，光武亦复南顿，优复之科一依汉氏故事。
祖逖部将卫策大破石勒别军于汴水。加逖为镇西将军。
八月戊午，尊敬王后虞氏为敬皇后。
辛酉，迁神主于太庙。
辛未，梁州刺史、安南将军周访卒。
皇太子释奠于太学。
以湘州刺史甘卓为安南将军、梁州刺史。
九月，徐龛又叛，降于石勒。
冬十月丙辰，徐州刺史蔡豹以畏懦伏诛。
王敦杀武陵内史向硕。
四年春二月，徐龛又帅众来降。
鲜卑末波奉送皇帝信玺。
庚戌，告于太庙，乃受之。
癸亥，日斗。
translation: 
On the twenty-fourth day of the seventh month in autumn, Emperor Yuan issued an edict saying: My late father, King Wu, and my late father, King Gong, were kings of Langwang Ya for more than forty years. They were kind to the people and the virtue of benevolence existed in the hearts of the people.
In response to destiny, I started my business in the south of the Yangtze River, and all the people came here to help the old and the young.
There are nearly a thousand households of Langwangya people in the south of the Yangtze River. The place where these people gather is now established as Huaide County, which belongs to Danyang County.
In the past, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty used his hometown Pei as Tangmuyi. Emperor Guangwu also exempted Nandun from taxation and corvee. The preferential treatment and exemption method for Huaide County was based on the example of the Han Dynasty.
Zu Ti's general Wei Ce defeated Shilebie's army in Bianshui, and Zu Ti added the rank of general in the west of Zhenxi.
On August 26, Queen Jing Yu was honored as Queen Jing.
On the 29th, the god moved to the Ancestral Temple.
In Xinwei, Liangzhou governor and Annan general Zhou Fang died.
The crown prince paid homage to his ancestor Confucius at Taixue.
Gan Zhuo, the governor of Xiangzhou, was appointed as General Annan and the governor of Liangzhou.
In September, Xu Gong rebelled again and surrendered to Shi Le.
On October 25th in winter, Cai Bao, the governor of Xuzhou, was executed for cowering.
Wang Dun killed Xiang Shuo, the internal historian of Wuling.
In the spring and February of the fourth year, Xu Kun led his troops to surrender again.
The last wave of Xianbei presented the emperor's seal.
On the 21st, he went to the Ancestral Temple to pay homage to the late emperor and receive his seal.
Guihai, two days of fighting.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
三月，置周易、仪礼、公羊博士。
癸酉，以平东将军曹嶷为安东将军。
夏四月辛亥，帝亲览庶狱。
石勒攻厌次，陷之。
抚军将军、幽州刺史段匹磾没于勒。
五月，旱。
庚申，诏曰： 昔汉二祖及魏武皆免良人，武帝时，凉州覆败，诸为奴婢亦皆复籍，此累代成规也。
其免中州良人遭难为扬州诸郡僮客者，以备征役。
秋七月，大水。
甲戌，以尚书戴若思为征西将军、都督司兗豫并冀雍六州诸军事、司州刺史，镇合肥；丹阳尹刘隗为镇北将军、都督青徐幽平四州诸军事、青州刺史，镇淮阴。
壬千，以骠骑将军王导为司空。
八月，常山崩。
九月壬寅，镇西将军、豫州刺史祖逖卒。
冬十月壬午，以逖弟侍中约为平西将军、豫州刺史。
translation: 
In March, doctors of "Book of Changes", "Etiquette" and "Gongyang" were established.
On the 14th, Pingdong General Cao Yi was appointed as Andong General.
On April 23rd in the summer, Emperor Yuan personally inspected the people's prison lawsuits.
Shi Le attacked and occupied Mao Quanci.
Duan Pi Shidan, the general of the Fu army and the governor of Youzhou, died in Shi Le's army.
In May, there was a drought.
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, an edict was issued saying: In the past, Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Guangwu and Emperor Wu of Wei all exempted their loved ones from being slaves. When I was in the reign of Emperor Wu, the foreign rulers who occupied Liangzhou were defeated, and those who were slaves were also restored to their original places. This shows that this was the rule of the past dynasties.
Nowadays, civilians in Zhongzhou who are child guests in the counties of Yangzhou due to disaster can restore their status as civilians in preparation for the national war and corvee service.
In autumn and July, there are floods.
On the 17th, Shangshu Dai Ruosi was appointed as the general to conquer the west, and the governor was Si Yanyu, as well as the military officers of the six prefectures of Hebei and Yong, and the governor of Sizhou, guarding Hefei.
On the 25th, General Wang Dao was appointed as Sikong.
In August, Changshan collapsed.
In the ninth month of Renyin, Zu Ti, the general of Zhenxi and the governor of Yuzhou, died.
On Renwu in the tenth month of winter, Zu Ti's younger brother served as a servant to Zhong Zu and made an appointment with General Pingxi and the governor of Yuzhou.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
十二月，以慕容廆为持节、都督幽平二州东夷诸军事、平州牧，封辽东郡公。
永昌元年正月乙卯，大赦，改元。
戊辰，大将军王敦举兵于武昌，以诛刘隗为名，龙骧将军沈充帅众应之。
三月，徵征西将军戴若思、镇北将军刘隗还卫京都。
以司空王导为前锋大都督，以戴若思为骠骑将军，丹阳诸郡皆加军号。
加仆射周顗尚书左仆射，领军王邃尚书右仆射。
以太子右卫率周筵行冠军将军，统兵三千讨沈充。
甲午，封皇子昱为琅邪王。
刘隗军于金城，右将军周札守石头，帝亲被甲徇六师于郊外。
遣平南将军陶侃领江州，安南将军甘卓领荆州，各帅所统以蹑敦后。
四月，敦前锋攻石头，周札开城门应之，奋威将军侯礼死之。
敦据石头，戴若思、刘隗帅众攻之，王导、周顗、郭逸、虞潭等三道出战，六军败绩。
尚书令刁协奔于江乘，为贼所害。
translation: 
In December, Murong Xu was appointed as the governor, governor of the Dongyi military affairs of Youping and Pingzhou, and the pastor of Pingzhou, and was granted the title of Duke of Liaodong.
On the first day of spring in the first year of Yongchang, there was a general amnesty and the reign name was changed.
On the 14th, General Wang Dun raised troops in Wuchang in the name of killing Liu Wei. General Shen Chong of Longxiang led his troops to respond to Wang Dun.
In March, General Dai Ruosi of the West and Liu Wei, the General of Zhenbei, were summoned to return to the capital to protect him.
With Sikong Wangdao as the forward commander, Dai Ruosi as the hussar general, and the governors of Danyang counties were all given military ranks.
Shangshu Zhou Qiye added Shangshu Zuopushe, and leader Wang Sui added Shangshu right Pushe.
The prince's right guard led Zhou Yanyan to execute the champion general's military and led three thousand troops to attack Shen Chong.
In the Jiawu period, the prince Sima Yu was granted the title of King Langya.
Liu Wei garrisoned his troops in Jincheng, and General Zhou Zha on the right guarded Stone City. Emperor Yuan personally wore armor and inspected the six armies in the suburbs.
Pingnan general Tao Kan was sent to take charge of Jiangzhou, and Annan general Gan Zhuo was also in charge of Jingzhou. They each led their troops to contain Wang Dun from behind.
In April, Wang Dun advanced into Stone City. Zhou Zha opened the city gate to meet Wang Dun's army. General Hou Li died in the battle.
Wang Dun occupied Stone City, and Dai Ruosi and Liu Wei led their troops to attack Stone City. Wang Dao, Zhou Qiye, Guo Yi, and Yu Tan attacked in three directions, and Wang's division was defeated.
Shangshu ordered Diao Xie to flee to Jiangcheng, where he was killed by the bandits.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
镇北将军刘隗奔于石勒。
帝遣使谓敦曰： 公若不忘本朝，于此息兵，则天下尚可共安也。
如其不然，朕当归于琅邪，以避贤路。
辛未，大赦。
敦乃自为丞相、都督中外诸军、录尚书事，封武昌郡公，邑万户。
丙子，骠骑将军、秣陵侯戴若思，尚书左仆射、护军将军、武城侯周顗为敦所害。
敦将沈充陷吴国，魏乂陷湘州，吴国内史张茂，湘州刺史、谯王承并遇害。
五月壬申，敦以太保、西阳王羕为太宰，加司空王导尚书令。
乙亥，镇南大将军甘卓为襄阳太守周虑所害。
蜀贼张龙寇巴东，建平太守柳纯击走之。
石勒遣骑寇河南。
六月，旱。
秋七月，王敦自加兗州刺史郗鉴为安北将军。
石勒将石季龙攻陷太山，执守将徐龛。
兗州刺史郗鉴自邹山退守合肥。
八月，敦以其见含为卫将军，自领宁、益二州都督。
琅邪太守孙默叛，降于石勒。
translation: 
General Liu Wei of Zhenbei defected to Shile.
Emperor Yuan sent an envoy to Wang Dun and said: "If you don't forget the Jin Dynasty, and stop fighting from now on, we can stabilize the world together."
If this is not possible, I will return to my original fiefdom of King Langya to make way for the sage.
Xinwei implemented a general amnesty.
Wang Dun himself appointed himself prime minister, commander-in-chief of all Chinese and foreign armies, recorded ministerial affairs, granted the title of Duke of Wuchang, and granted food to ten thousand households.
Bingzi, General Hussar and Marquis of Moling Dai Ruosi, Shangshu Zuopushe, General Hujun and Marquis of Wucheng Zhou Qiye were killed by Wang Dun.
Wang Dun's general Shen Chong captured the state of Wu, and Wei Xi captured Xiangzhou. Zhang Mao, the governor of Wu state, and Sima Cheng, the governor of Xiangzhou and the king of Qiao, were killed together.
On May 20th, Wang Dun appointed Taibao and Sima, the king of Xiyang, as his magistrates, and Sikong Wangdao was appointed minister.
On the 23rd, Zhennan General Gan Zhuo was killed by Zhou Lu, the prefect of Xiangyang.
The Shu bandit Zhang Long invaded Badong, and Liu Chun, the prefect of Jianping, drove him away.
Shi Le sent cavalry to invade Henan.
June, drought.
In the seventh month of autumn, Wang Dun gave Xi Jian, the governor of Yanzhou, the title of General Anbei.
Shi Le's general Shi Jilong captured Taishan and captured the defender Xu Gong.
Xi Jian, the governor of Yanzhou, retreated from Zoshan to Hefei to guard.
In August, Wang Dun appointed his brother Wang Han as the general of the guard, and he took charge of the two prefectures of Ning and Yi.
Sun Mo, the prefect of Langwangya, rebelled and surrendered to Shile.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
冬十月，大疫，死者十二三。
己丑，都督荆梁二州诸军事、平南将军、荆州刺史、武陵侯王暠卒。
辛卯，以下邳内史王邃为征北将军、都督青徐幽平四州诸军事，镇淮阴。
新昌太守梁硕起兵反。
京师大务，黑气蔽天，日月无光。
石勒攻陷襄城、城父，遂围谯，破祖约别军，约退据寿春。
十一月，以司徒荀组为太尉。
己酉，太尉荀组薨。
罢司徒，并丞相。
闰月己丑，帝崩于内殿，时年四十七，葬建平陵，庙号中宗。
帝性简俭冲素，容纳直言，虚己待物。
初镇江东，颇以酒废事，王导深以为言，帝命酌，引觞覆之，于此遂绝。
有司尝奏太极殿广室施绛帐，帝曰： 汉文集上书皁囊为帷。
遂令冬施青布，夏施青綀帷帐。
translation: 
In the tenth month of winter, a great plague occurred, killing twenty-three out of ten people.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the two states of Jingliang, General Pingnan, the governor of Jingzhou, and the Marquis of Wuling died.
On the 11th, Wang Sui, the internal history of Pi, was appointed as the general to conquer the north and the commander-in-chief of the military forces in the four prefectures of Qing, Xu, You and Ping to guard Huaiyin.
Liang Shuo, the governor of Xinchang, rebelled.
A heavy fog broke out in the capital, black air covered the sky, and the sun and moon lost light.
Shi Le captured Xiangcheng and Chengfu, then surrounded Qiao, defeated Zu Yue's other troops, and Zu Yue retreated to Shouchun.
In November, Situ Xun was appointed as Taiwei.
Jiyou, Taiwei Xunzu died.
Situ was dismissed and his duties were merged with the prime minister.
On the tenth day of the leap month, Emperor Yuan died in the inner hall at the age of forty-seven. He was buried in Jianping Mausoleum, with the temple name Zhongzong.
Emperor Yuan's character was simple, frugal and calm, able to tolerate outspokenness and treat others with humility.
When he began to guard Jiangdong, he often neglected his political affairs due to drinking. Director Wang earnestly warned him. Emperor Yuan asked Director Wang to pour a glass of wine, then picked up the cup and poured the wine away. From then on, he stopped drinking.
Someone asked a minister to hang up a red curtain in the wide room of Taiji Hall. Emperor Yuan said: Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty collected the black book bags with letters from the officials to make a curtain.
So they made curtains with green cloth in winter and green gauze in summer.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
将拜贵人，有司请市雀钗，帝以烦费不许。
所幸郑夫人衣无文彩。
从母弟王暠为母立屋过制，流涕止之。
然晋室遘纷，皇舆播越，天命未改，人谋叶赞。
元戎屡动，不出江畿，经略区区，仅全吴楚。
终于下陵上辱，忧愤告谢。
恭俭之德虽充，雄武之量不足。
始秦时望气者云 五百年后金陵有天子气 ，故始皇东游以厌之，改其地曰秣陵，堑北山以绝其势。
及孙权之称号。自谓当之。孙盛以为始皇逮于孙氏四百三十七载，考其历数，犹为未及；元帝之渡江也，乃五百二十六年，真人之应在于此矣。
translation: 
A nobleman was granted a title in the palace, and someone asked him to buy a bird hairpin to make a headdress for the nobleman. Emperor Yuan thought the cost was too high and refused to allow it.
The beloved Mrs. Zheng is plainly dressed and has no literary talent.
Wang Na, the younger brother of Emperor Yuan's aunt, built a house for his mother that was too luxurious. Emperor Yuan dissuaded him with tears.
However, the Jin Dynasty was in chaos and the emperor went into exile. The destiny of the Jin Dynasty was still in the Jin Dynasty, and the ministers were harmonious.
The king's division was dispatched many times, but could not reach the Yangtze River Basin. The area under control was small and could only protect Wu and Chu.
Finally, the powerful officials committed the crime, suffered the humiliation, and died of sorrow and anger.
Humility and frugality are sufficient virtues, but valor and talent are not enough.
During the time of Qin Shihuang, a fortune-teller said: Five hundred years later, Jinling will have the spirit of the emperor. Therefore, Qin Shihuang traveled east to suppress the emperor's spirit, changed Jinling into Moling, and dug up the northern mountain of Jinling to eliminate its earthly spirit.
When Sun Quan proclaimed himself emperor, he believed that he had fulfilled the prophecy of the Qin Dynasty. Sun Sheng believed that it was only 437 years from Qin Shihuang to Sun Quan, less than 500 years. It was 526 years until Emperor Yuan crossed the river, and the spirit of the emperor should be here.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
咸宁初，风吹太社树折，社中有青气，占者以为东莞有帝者之祥。由是徙封东莞王于琅邪，即武王也。
及吴之亡，王濬实先至建鄴，而皓之降款，远归玺于琅邪。
天意人事，又符中兴之兆。
太安之际，童谣云： 五马浮渡江，一马化为龙。
及永嘉中，岁、镇、荧惑、太白聚斗、牛之间，识者以为吴越之地当兴王者。
是岁，王室沦覆，帝与西阳、汝南、南顿、彭城五王获济，而帝竟登大位焉。
初，玄石图有 牛继马后 ，故宣帝深忌牛氏，遂为二榼，共一口，以贮酒焉，帝先饮佳者，而以毒酒鸩其将牛金。
史臣曰：维扬作宇，凭带洪流，楚江恆战，方城对敌，不得不推诚将相，以总戎麾。
楼船万计，兵倍王室，处其利而无心者，周公其人也。
威权外假，嫌隙内兴，彼有顺流之师，此无强籓之援。
商逢九乱，尧止八音，明皇负图，属在兹日。
translation: 
In the early years of Xianning, the Taishe tree was blown down by the wind, and green air came out of the society. The fortune teller believed that there was a good omen for the emperor in Dongguan, so he moved the King of Dongguan to the title of Langwang Yawang. This was Emperor Yuan's grandfather, Langwang Yawu King Sima Qianyou.
In the battle to destroy Wu, Wang Jun actually arrived in Jianye first, but when Sun Hao surrendered, he gave the jade seal to Sima Qinyou's military camp, which was far away from Jianye.
God's will and human affairs are in line with the auspicious omen of ZTE.
During the Tai'an period of Emperor Hui, there was a nursery rhyme that said: Five horses floated across the river, and one horse turned into a dragon.
During the Yongjia period of Emperor Huai, stars such as Sui, Zhen, Yinghuo, and Taibai gathered between Dou and Niu. People who knew the stars thought that a king should rise in the land of Wuyue.
In this year, the royal family of the Central Plains overthrew. Emperor Yuan and the kings of Xiyang, Runan, Nanton, and Pengcheng crossed the river south, and Emperor Yuan finally ascended the throne.
At the beginning, there was a saying in "Xuanshi Diagram" that "Niu follows the horse", so Emperor Xuan Yi Sima Yi was deeply jealous of the Niu family, so he made a wine vessel with only one mouth that could hold two kinds of wine. He drank the wine first, and then poured the poisoned wine to his general Niu Jin and poisoned him to death.
However, Xiahou, the concubine of King Sima Jin of King Yagong of Lang, actually had an affair with a minor official named Niu and gave birth to Emperor Yuan. Some people say that this is the talisman of "Niu succeeds Ma". Shi Chen said: With the land of Weiyang as its territory and the torrent of the Yangtze River as its support, there are often wars in the Chu River basin and Fangcheng is often a battlefield, so we have to sincerely trust the generals to lead the army.
With tens of thousands of warships and a military force that is twice that of the royal family, those who are in such a position and have no intention of usurping the country are people like Duke Zhou.
The country's authority is borrowed by outsiders, and feuds arise internally. There is an army taking advantage of the situation over there, but there is no powerful feudal state to back it up.
The Shang Dynasty encountered nine chaos, Yao suppressed the Eight Sounds, and the auspicious occasion of Emperor Ming's appointment appeared on this day.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
运龙韬于掌握，起天旆于江靡，燎其余烬，有若秋原。
去缞绖而践戎场，斩鲸鲵而拜园阙。
镇削威权，州分江汉，覆车不践。贻厥孙谋。
其后七十余年，终罹敬道之害。
或曰： 兴亡在运，非止上流。 岂创制不殊，而弘之者异也。
赞曰：倾天起害，猛兽呈灾。
琅邪之子，仁义归来，龚行赵璧，命箠荆台。
云瞻北晦，江望南开。
晋阳御敌，河西全壤。
胡寇虽艰，灵心弗爽。
三方驰骛，百蛮从响。
宝命还昌，金辉载明。
明后岐嶷，军书接要。
莽首晨悬，董脐昏燎。
厥德不回，余风可劭。
translation: 
The operation can be roughly carried out in the palm of the hand, and a banner of obedience to the sky is erected on the riverside. The remaining ashes are rekindled, and the power is like the fire on the grassland after autumn.
He took off his mourning clothes and went to the battlefield, killed the evil-doers, and offered sacrifices to the late emperor.
Weakening the authority of powerful ministers, dividing Jiang, Mo and other prefectures and counties into smaller ones, and learning from the lessons of the predecessors, their plans can ensure the peace of future generations.
More than seventy years later, he was finally reduced by Huan Jingdao.
Some people say that success or failure depends on fate, not just power. It can be said that the foundations are the same, but those who inherit the glory are different.
Praise says: Disasters arise like the sky falling, and wild beasts appear to bring disaster.
The son of Langxie is benevolent and righteous. He behaves respectfully like Zhao Bi and determines the punishment in Jingtai.
Dark clouds cover the north, and the sky to the south over the Yangtze River opens with clouds.
Resist the enemy in Jinyang and protect the country in Hexi.
Although the bandits are rampant, the sacred heart will not be lost.
The three parties came and went, and Baiman responded.
Destiny flourishes again and the sun shines brighter.
The Ming Emperor was young and intelligent, and handled military documents in an orderly manner.
In the morning, Wang Mang's head was hung up, and in the evening, Dong Zhuo's navel was used to light a lamp.
His merits cannot be reproduced, but his demeanor can encourage future generations.


