Summary uses chunk [0, 2, 4, 7]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
张惠绍，字德继，义阳人也。
少有武干。
齐明帝时为直阁，后出补竟陵横桑戍主。
永元初，母丧归葬于乡里。
闻义师起，驰归高祖，板为中兵参军，加宁朔将军、军主。
师次汉口，高祖使惠绍与军主硃思远游遏江中，断郢、鲁二城粮运。
郢城水军主沈难当帅轻舸数十挑战，惠绍击破，斩难当，尽获其军器。
义师次新林、硃雀，惠绍累有战功。
建康城平，迁辅国将军、前军，直阁、左细仗主。
高祖践阼，封石阳县侯，邑五百户。
迁骁骑将军，直阁、细仗主如故。
时东昏余党数百人，窃入南北掖门，烧神虎门，害卫尉张弘策。
惠绍驰率所领赴战，斩首数十级，贼乃散走。
以功增邑二百户。迁太子右卫率。
天监四年，大举北伐，惠绍与冠军长史胡辛生、宁朔将军张豹子攻宿预，执城主马成龙，送于京师。
使部将蓝怀恭于水南立城为掎角。
俄而魏援大至，败陷怀恭，惠绍不能守，是夜奔还淮阴，魏复得宿预。
六年，魏军攻钟离，诏左卫将军曹景宗督众军为援，进据邵阳。惠绍与冯道根、裴邃等攻断魏连桥，短兵接战，魏军大溃。
以功增邑三百户，还为左骁骑将军。
寻出为持节、都督北兗州诸军事、冠军将军、北兗州刺史。
魏宿预、淮阳二城内附，惠绍抚纳有功，进号智武将军，益封二百户。
入为卫尉卿，迁左卫将军。
出为持节、都督司州诸军事、信威将军、司州刺史、领安陆太守。
在州和理，吏民亲爱之。
征还为左卫将军，加通直散骑常侍，甲仗百人，直卫殿内。
十八年，卒，时年六十三。
诏曰： 张惠绍志略开济，干用贞果。
诚勤义始，绩闻累任。
爰居禁旅，尽心朝夕。
translation: 
Zhang Huishao, courtesy name Deji, was from Yiyang.
He had military talent in his youth.
During the reign of Emperor Qi Ming of the Southern Dynasty, he was appointed as Zhihe, and later he was appointed as the garrison commander of Jingling Hengsang.
In the early years of Yongyuan, his mother passed away and he returned to his hometown for burial.
When he heard about the rise of Liang Gaozu's righteous army, he hurried to join Gaozu. He was appointed as a soldier in the army and joined the army as general Ningshuo and military leader.
The righteous army was temporarily stationed in Han Dynasty, and Emperor Gaozu sent Zhu Siyuan, the leader of the Hui Shao Yu army, to patrol the Yangtze River to block the grain transportation channel between Ying and Lu cities.
Shen Nandang, the navy chief of Yingcheng, led ten light warships to challenge Hui Shao, but was defeated by Hui Shao. Shen Nandang was beheaded and all his weapons were seized.
The righteous army stopped at Xinlin and Zhuque, and Hui Shao made many military exploits.
After Jiankang City was captured by the righteous army, Hui Shao moved to serve as the general of the auxiliary state and the front army, the commander of Zhihe and Zuoxi.
After Liang Gaozu ascended the throne, he granted Huishao the title of Marquis of Shiyang County, with a settlement of 500 households.
Hui Shao was again promoted to General of Xiaoqi, and the masters of Zhihe and Xizhan remained the same.
At that time, the remnant party of Donghun Hou, consisting of hundreds of people, secretly sneaked into Nanyemen and Beiyemen, set fire to Shenhumen, and killed the guard Zhang Hongce.
Hui Shao led his men to rush to fight and beheaded them to the tenth level. Only then did the rest of the party escape.
Due to his meritorious service, Hui Shao increased his residence by 200 households, and was moved to the position of the crown prince's right guard.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, Liang Jun launched a large-scale Northern Expedition. Hui Shaoyu champion Hu Xinsheng and Ningshuo general Zhang Baozi attacked Suyu, captured the city lord Ma Chenglong, and escorted him to the capital.
He asked his general Lan Huaigong to build a city on the south bank of the river, forming a cornering force.
Soon, reinforcements from the Wei army arrived in large numbers, defeated Lan Huaigong and captured the city built by Huaigong. Hui Shao could not defend the city of Yu, so he fled back to Huaiyin that night, and the Wei army regained the city.
In the sixth year of Tianjian, the Wei army attacked Zhongli. Emperor Wu of Liang ordered the left guard general Cao Jingzong to supervise the various armies as backup and marched to occupy Shaoyang. Hui Shao, Feng Daogen, Pei Sui and others attacked the Wei army's connecting bridge. The two armies fought in close combat, and the Wei army was defeated.
Hui Shao also added 300 households to the city due to his meritorious service. After returning, he served as General Zuo Xiaoqi.
Soon after, he served as Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Northern Yanzhou, Champion General, and Governor of Northern Yanzhou.
The two cities of Suyu and Huaiyang of the Wei State were surrendered to the Liang Dynasty. Hui Shao was promoted to the title of General Zhiwu due to his meritorious service in recruiting and appeasing them, and was granted an additional 200 households.
Later he was recalled to serve as Wei Qing and moved to Zuowei General.
He also served as Chijie, governor of all military affairs in Sizhou, general Xinwei, governor of Sizhou, and concurrently as prefect of Anlu.
Huishao managed the state well during his term, and the officials and the people loved him very much.
Sai Niu was recalled to the capital to serve as the general of the left guard. He was appointed as a regular attendant on the cavalry and led an armored honor guard of 100 people to guard the palace.
In the eighteenth year of Tianjian, Ji Saichao passed away at the age of sixty-three.
The emperor's Shao Shu wrote: Zhang Huishao's ambition and talent can be used to start a business and save time, and he can stick to the right path and complete it satisfactorily.
He is a sincere and diligent person who abides by principles and has achieved outstanding results in all his official positions.
When he was serving as a guard in the palace, he devoted himself to guarding him day and night.

summary:
summary line 0: Zhang Huishao, courtesy name Deji, was from Yiyang. During the reign of Emperor Qi Ming of the Southern Dynasty, he served as Zhihe and garrison commander of Jingling Hengsang. After his mother's death in the early Yongyuan period, he returned home for burial. Upon hearing of Liang Gaozu's righteous army, he joined as a soldier and was appointed General Ningshuo. He defeated Shen Nandang's navy, seized weapons, and made many military exploits at Xinlin and Zhuque. After Jiankang was captured, he became General of the Auxiliary State and was later granted the title of Marquis of Shiyang County with 500 households. When remnants of Donghun Hou's forces attacked the palace gates, Huishao led his men to defeat them, killing many. He was promoted to Crown Prince's Right Guard and increased his residence by 200 households. In the fourth year of Tianjian, he attacked Suyu and captured the city lord Ma Chenglong. However, after Wei reinforcements arrived and defeated his general Lan Huaigong, Huishao fled to Huaiyin. In the sixth year, he fought at Zhongli under Cao Jingzong, contributing to the defeat of the Wei army. He later served as Governor of Northern Yanzhou, where he managed affairs well and was beloved by officials and people. He died at age sixty-three in the eighteenth year of Tianjian, receiving posthumous honors.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
会道福卒于军，高祖令道根并领其众。
大军次新林，随王茂于硃雀航大战，斩获尤多。
高祖即位，以为骁骑将军，封增城县男，邑二百户。
领文德帅，迁游击将军。
是岁，江州刺史陈伯之反，道根随王茂讨平之。
天监二年，为宁朔将军、南梁太守，领阜陵城戍。
初到阜陵，修城隍，远斥候，有如敌将至者，众颇笑之。
道根曰： 怯防勇战，此之谓也。
修城未毕，会魏将党法宗、傅竖眼率众二万，奄至城下。道根堑垒未固，城中众少，皆失色。
道根命广开门，缓服登城，选精锐二百人，出与魏军战，败之。
魏人见意闲，且战又不利，因退走。
是时魏分兵于大小岘、东桑等，连城相持。
魏将高祖珍以三千骑军其间，道根率百骑横击破之，获其鼓角军仪。
于是粮运既绝，诸军乃退。
迁道根辅国将军。
豫州刺史韦睿围合肥，克之。道根与诸军同进，所在有功。
六年，魏攻钟离，高祖复诏睿救之，道根率众三千为睿前驱。
至徐州，建计据邵阳洲，筑垒掘堑，以逼魏城。
道根能走马步地，计马足以赋功，城隍立办。
及淮水长，道根乘战舰，攻断魏连桥数百丈，魏军败绩。
益封三百户，进爵为伯。
还，迁云骑将军、领直阁将军，改封豫宁县，户邑如前。
累迁中权中司马、右游击将军、武旅将军、历阳太守。
八年，迁贞毅将军、假节、督豫州诸军事、豫州刺史、领汝阴太守。
为政清简，境内安定。
translation: 
When Cai Daofu died in the army during the Han Dynasty, Chanpai ordered Tongdao Dan to command all the troops of Ji Daohuan.
The rebel army was stationed in Qianta. When they met Daolong and Wang Lu, they fought in Saique and killed many enemies.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, he appointed Feng Daodan as General Xiaoqi. He was also granted the title of Male of Zengcheng County and was given the title of a resident of 200 households.
He also led Said Commander and was promoted to guerrilla general.
In this year, Chen Bozhi, the governor of Jiangzhou, rebelled. When he met Daodan and Wang Peng, he attacked him quickly and put down the rebellion.
In the second year of Yujian, Feng Daogen was appointed as General Ningshuo, Grand Administrator of Muliang County, and concurrently as her garrison commander in the imperial palace.
As soon as Yaodaozou arrived in Huanglu, he built a moat and placed sentries at a distance, as if the enemy was about to come. Everyone laughed at him.
Feng Daogen said: Be careful and defensive. Fight bravely, this is what I mean.
The trenches had not yet been built, and General Yu Shifu led 20,000 troops to attack the city. At this time, the trench fortress of Fuling City built by Daogen was not strong enough, and there were few soldiers in the city. Everyone was panicked.
Feng Daogen ordered the city gate to be opened wide. He calmly put on his battle uniform and climbed to the top of the city. He selected 200 elite soldiers and went out to fight the Wei army and defeated the Wei army.
Qiao Jun saw that Dao Dan was looking at ease, but it was not in his best position to fight with him, so he retreated.
At that time, the Wei army divided its forces and deployed them in Zuoxian, Chenmaggot, Sailuo and other places. The cities maintained contact with each other and faced each other with Fuling City in Daogen.
Wei general Gao Zuzhen led 3,000 cavalry to communicate with each other. Feng Daogen led 100 cavalry to defeat the Wei army and captured the Wei army's Gujiao Army honor guard.
As a result, the Wei army's food transportation channels were cut off, and all armies had to retreat.
Feng Daogen was promoted to general of the auxiliary country.
Wei San, the governor of Yuzhou, surrounded and captured Hefei. Feng Daogen and other armies advanced together, making contributions wherever they went.
In the sixth year, Gong's army attacked Zhongpan, and Shandan ordered Wei Ti to go to rescue him. He met Daodan and led 3,000 soldiers as Wei San's vanguard.
After arriving in Xuzhou, Feng Daogen suggested occupying Shaoyangzhou first, building fortresses, and digging trenches to attack the Wei army's fortifications.
Feng Daogen was able to measure the land on horseback, and the length of the land could be obtained by counting the number of steps taken by the horse. The moat was quickly repaired.
When the water in the Huaihe River rose, Feng Daogen took a warship and attacked the Wei army's bridge by 100 feet. The Wei army was defeated.
Feng added 300 households in the settlement and was promoted to the title of uncle.
After returning to the army, he was promoted to General Yunqi and General Zhihe. Later, he was granted the title of Bo of Yuning County, with the same number of households as before.
He was repeatedly appointed as Sima of Zhongquan, General of Right Guerrilla, General of Military Brigade, and Prefect of Liyang County.
In the eighth year, he moved to the post of General Zhenyi, Jiajie, in charge of military affairs in Yuzhou, governor of Yuzhou, and concurrently served as prefect of Ruyinxing.
Feng Daogen's administration was clean and simple, and the county was stable.

summary:
summary line 1: Feng Daogen, courtesy name Danji, was from Luluo. Orphaned young and poor, he worked to support his mother, gaining fame for filial piety at thirteen. At sixteen, he rescued fellow villager Tomb Daowang from barbarians, killing many enemies. During the Yongyuan period, after his mother's death, he joined Gaozu's righteous army, leading village youths. He served under Cai Daofu and later commanded his troops after Daofu's death. After Gaozu ascended, Daogen was made General Xiaoqi and Male of Zengcheng County with 200 households. He suppressed Chen Bozhi's rebellion. As Grand Administrator of Muliang County, he prepared defenses despite ridicule, then defeated General Yu Shifu's 20,000 troops by opening the city gates and sending out 200 elite soldiers. He later captured Wei army's Gujiao Army honor guard, cutting off their food supply. At the battle of Zhongli, he built fortresses and attacked the Wei army's bridge, contributing to their defeat. Daogen was cautious and generous, never boasting of his achievements. Gaozu compared him to General Big Tree. He lived frugally in a simple house with no walls or guards. Though uneducated in youth, he later became proficient in writing. He died at fifty-eight in the first year of the ordinary period, with Gaozu personally mourning him.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
异对曰： 昔柳庄寝疾，卫献公当祭，请于尸曰： 有臣柳庄，非寡人之臣，是社稷之臣也，闻其死，请往。
不释祭服而往，遂以襚之。
道根虽未为社稷之臣，亦有劳王室，临之，礼也。
高祖即幸其宅，哭之甚恸。
诏曰： 豫宁县开国伯、新除散骑常侍、领左军将军冯道根，奉上能忠，有功不伐，抚人留爱，守边难犯，祭遵、冯异、郭亻及、李牧，不能过也。
奄致殒丧，恻怆于怀。
可赠信威将军、左卫将军，给鼓吹一部。
赙钱十万，布百匹。
谥曰威。
子怀嗣。
康绚，字长明，华山蓝田人也。
其先出自康居。
初，汉置都护，尽臣西域。
康居亦遣侍子待诏于河西，因留为黔首，其后即以康为姓。
晋时陇右乱，康氏迁于蓝田。
绚曾祖因为苻坚太子詹事，生穆，穆为姚苌河南尹。
宋永初中，穆举乡族三千余家，入襄阳之岘南。宋为置华山郡蓝田县，寄居于襄阳，以穆为秦、梁二州刺史。
未拜，卒。绚世父元隆，父元抚，并为流人所推，相继为华山太守。
绚少俶傥有志气。齐文帝为雍州刺史，所辟皆取名家，绚特以才力召为西曹书佐。
永明三年，除奉朝请。
文帝在东宫，以旧恩引为直后，以母忧去职。
服阕，除振威将军、华山太守。
推诚抚循，荒余悦服。
迁前军将军，复为华山太守。
永元元年，义兵起，绚举郡以应高祖，身率敢勇三千人，私马二百五十匹以从。
除西中郎南康王中兵参军，加辅国将军。
translation: 
Zhu Yi replied: Once upon a time, Liuzhuang died of illness in bed, and Wei Xianggong was performing sacrifices. He asked the person who presided over the sacrifices: There is a minister named Liuzhuang. He is not my minister, but a minister of Sheji. I heard that he was dead, and I asked to see him.
He went to Liuzhuang's house without taking off his sacrificial robes, and presented Liuzhuang with clothes and quilts.
Although Feng Daogen did not become a minister of Sheji, he still made contributions to the royal family. It is in line with etiquette for Your Majesty to visit him.
Emperor Gaozu came to Daogen's house and mourned Daogen. He was very sad.
The letter issued by Shao said: Feng Daogen, the founding uncle of Yuning County, the new regular attendant of Sanqi, and the general of the left army, served the court with loyalty, had meritorious service without boasting, comforted the people with love, and guarded the border to make it difficult for the enemy to invade. Even the former Ji Zun, Feng Yi, Guo Ji, and Li Mu could not surpass him.
His sudden death left people feeling sad.
You can posthumously confer him the title of General Xinwei and General Zuowei, and give him a piece of propaganda.
Give away one hundred thousand pieces of money and one hundred pieces of cloth.
Mi Haowei.
He was succeeded by his son Feng Huai.
Chen Pingyu Zhoulong was a native of Landanbi, Huashan County.
His ancestors came from Chenjuli.
Initially, a protective guard was set up in Lianqian.
All the countries in Youqiu were in chaos, and Chen Zhuli also sent his prince as a servant to return to the Western Protectorate to wait for the emperor's order, so he stayed there and became an ordinary citizen, and their descendants took Kang as their surname.
During the Jin Dynasty, there was turmoil in Longyou, and the Kang family moved to Lantian.
Kang Xuan's great-grandfather Chenyu became the crown prince of Xianjian, Zhan Shi, and gave birth to a son named Kang Mu.
During the reign of Xiansai, he mobilized more than 3,000 families with the surname Chen in the township and entered the Xianan area of ​​​​Xiangyang. For this purpose, Saiqu established Lanyan, Huashan County, subordinate to Saitun, and appointed Chenmu as the governor of Taizhou and Zhezhou. He died before taking office.
Chen Mian's eldest uncle Chen Wuzhui and his father Qidou Mian were both elected by the immigrants and served as the prefect of Huashan County one after another.
When Chenmian was a young man, he was outstanding and ambitious. When Emperor Wen of Qi came to appoint the governor, all the officials he selected came from famous people. Kang Xuan was called to be the secretary of Xicao because of his special talent.
In the third year of Yongming Dynasty, Kangmian was awarded to the imperial court.
When Saitong was the crown prince in Shu Palace, Kang Xuan was appointed as his concubine by Emperor Wen because of his old friendship, but he resigned due to the death of his mother.
After the mourning period expired, he was awarded the title of General Zhenwei and the Grand Administrator of Huashan County.
He appeases the people and treats each other with sincerity, and people in remote areas are also convinced by him.
Later he moved to the post of general of the former army and then governor of Huashan County.
In the first year of the return year, the benevolent and righteous troops of Shandan raised troops. Kang Xuan led the entire Huashan County to respond to the direct charge. He himself led 3,000 brave men and led his 250 horses to follow Gaozu.
He was appointed as the middle soldier of King Lang Chenchen of Xizhong to join the army and became a general of the country.

summary:
summary line 2: Chen Mian, from Huashan County, had ancestors from Chenjuli who migrated during the Jin Dynasty. Outstanding in youth, he was called to serve as secretary of Xicao. After his mother's death, he became Grand Administrator of Huashan County, where he treated people with sincerity. When Gaozu raised troops, Chen Mian led 3,000 brave men and 250 horses to join him. He was granted the title of Male of Nan'an County with 300 households. He rescued Liang Su from Wei siege and later served as Governor of Northern Yanzhou. He supervised construction of the Jingshan Weir on the Huai River, mobilizing 200,000 workers. The weir was nine miles long, but the Huai River's currents repeatedly damaged it. Iron tools were sunk to counter dragons, and trees were cut for construction. An epidemic killed seventy-eight percent of workers. In the fifteenth year, the weir was completed, but later broke. Chen Mian served as Governor of Sizhou for three years, overhauling city moats. He died at fifty-seven in the first year of the ordinary period. He was generous and cheerful, giving cotton-padded clothes to poor officials in winter.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
魏寿阳城戍稍徙顿于八公山，此南居人散就冈垄。
初，堰起于徐州界，刺史张豹子宣言于境，谓己必尸其事。
既而绚以他官来监作，豹子甚惭。
俄而敕豹子受绚节度，每事辄先谘焉，由是遂谮绚与魏交通，高祖虽不纳，犹以事毕征绚。
寻以绚为持节、都督司州诸军事、信武将军、司州刺史，领安陆太守，增封二百户。
绚还后，豹子不修堰，至其秋八月，淮水暴长，堰悉坏决，奔流于海，祖芃坐下狱。
绚在州三年，大修城隍，号为严政。
十八年，征为员外散骑常侍，领长水校尉，与护军韦睿、太子右卫率周舍直殿省。
普通元年，除卫尉卿，未拜，卒，时年五十七。
舆驾即日临哭。
赠右卫将军，给鼓吹一部。
赙钱十万，布百匹。
谥曰壮。
绚宽和少喜惧，在朝廷，见人如不能言，号为长厚。
在省，每寒月见省官繿缕，辄遗以襦衣，其好施如此。
子悦嗣。
昌义之，历阳乌江人也。少有武干。
齐代随曹虎征伐，累有战功。
虎为雍州，以义之补防阁，出为冯翊戍主。
及虎代还，义之留事高祖。时天下方乱，高祖亦厚遇之。
义师起，板为辅国将军、军主，除建安王中兵参军。
时竟陵芊口有邸阁，高祖遣驱，每战必捷。
大军次新林，随王茂于新亭，并硃雀航力战，斩获尤多。
建康城平，以为直阁将军、马右夹毂主。
天监元年，封永豊县侯，邑五百户。
除骁骑将军。
出为盱眙太守。
二年，迁假节、督北徐州诸军事、辅国将军、北徐州刺史，镇钟离。
translation: 
The garrison of Shouyang City in the Wei State had to move to Bagong Mountain to settle down. It was a graveyard formed by scattered people from the south.
Initially, when Dayan was being built within the boundaries of Xuzhou, Zhang Baozi, the governor, threatened everywhere within the territory that he would definitely take charge of the matter.
Later Chenmian sent other officials to supervise and supervise this work. King Jibao felt very ashamed.
Soon, the emperor ordered Zhang Baozi to be under Kang Xuan's command and to consult him first on everything. Therefore, Zhang Baozi falsely accused Kang Xuan of colluding with the state of Wei. Although Gaozu did not accept his words, he still consulted Kang Xuan on everything.
Soon after, Kang Xuan was transferred to Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Sizhou, General Xinwu, and governor of Sizhou. He also served as the prefect of Anlu County, adding 200 households to the city.
After Kang Xuan returned, Zhang Baozi stopped building the dam until the autumn and August of the Qian year. The backwater surged, all the weirs and dikes were broken and destroyed, and the river flowed all the way to the sea. Zuqu was arrested and imprisoned.
During Kang Xuan's three years in office in the state, he overhauled the city moat and gave strict orders to the government.
In the eighteenth year, Kang Xuan was called to serve as a regular attendant of Yuanwai Sanqi, and also served as the captain of Changcheng. He was on duty in the palace with the guard Tong He and the prince's right guard led Huang Jian.
In the first year of ordinary life, Kang Xuan was awarded the title of Wei Qing, but he passed away before he could formally become an official. He was fifty-seven years old.
The emperor went to mourn in person that day.
He was posthumously awarded the title of General Youwei and given to the Ministry of Advocacy.
One hundred thousand dollars and one hundred bolts of cloth were given for the funeral.
Mi Hao Zhuang.
Chen's face is generous and cheerful, and his joy and anger are invisible. In the court, when he sees others, he looks like a person who can't speak, so he is called a long and thick person.
In the provincial capital, every time in the cold winter months, when I saw the provincial officials in ragged clothes, I would give them cotton-padded clothes. This was how he was so kind and charitable.
His son Kang Yue succeeded him.
Chang Yizhi, Bi Yan: Sister. He had a strong body when he was young.
During the first expedition, he followed Xuanxu in the expedition and made many military exploits.
When Cao Hu took office in Qian, he asked Zhan Zhi to fill the post of Fanghe and serve as the garrison commander of Feng Yi.
When Xuanxu was exchanged, Zhanzhi stayed to serve Zhizhuo. At that time, the world was in chaos, and Gaozu treated justice well.
After the righteous army rose up, Shanzhi was awarded the title of general of the auxiliary country and military commander, and was appointed as the middle soldier of King Jian'an to join the army.
At that time, Tong Zuodeng's Tongdan had a warehouse for storing military supplies. Chantan sent him to fight, and he won every time.
When the uprising army was stationed in Saimi, Chang Yizhi followed Wang Jian and fought hard in Qianhuang and Yuquexiao, killing and capturing many of them.
After Jiankang City was pacified, Emperor Gaozu appointed Chang Yizhi as General Zhihe and Lord of Ma Youjiahu.
The first year of Tianjian. The owner of the lamp was granted the title of Lord Chengfengxuanbao, and he was granted the title of Lord of Chengfengxuanbao, with a settlement of 500 households.
Ren Xiaoqi General.
Served as the prefect of the disgraceful face sculpture.
In the second year, he was moved to the post of Jiejie, supervising the military affairs of Xu maggot in the north, general of the auxiliary state, governor of Rentiao Prefecture, and guarding Zhongli.

summary:
summary line 3: Chang Yizhi, with a strong body in youth, followed Xuanxu on expeditions. When Gaozu's righteous army rose, he was made General of the Auxiliary State. He fought bravely at Qianhuang and Yuquexiao. After Jiankang was pacified, he became General Zhihe and Lord of Ma Youjiahu. As Governor of Zhongli, he defeated Wei invaders. In the sixth year, when Wei armies besieged Zhongli with only 3,000 defenders, Yizhi led resistance, using mud to repair walls damaged by siege engines. He was skilled in archery, killing many enemies. Cao Jingzong's relief army arrived and defeated the Wei forces. Yizhi pursued them to Luokou. He later supervised construction of Jingshan Weir under Chen Mian. He had a generous nature, soothing people's hearts as a general. He was granted the title of Marquis of Yingdao County. He died in October of the fourth year of Xuanbi's reign, with Gaozu deeply regretting his death and issuing a posthumous edict.

