Chunk 0: 
original: 
朱浮字叔元，沛国萧人也。
初从光武为大司马主簿，迁偏将军，从破邯郸。
光武遣吴汉诛更始幽州牧苗曾，乃拜浮为大将军幽州牧，守蓟城，遂讨定北边。
建武二年，封舞阳侯，食三县。
浮年少有才能，颇欲厉风迹，收士心，辟召州中名宿涿郡王岑之属，以为从事，及王莽时故吏二千石，皆引置幕府，乃多发诸郡仓谷，禀赡其妻子。
渔阳太守彭宠以为天下未定，师旅方起，不宜多置官属，以损军实，不从其实。
浮性矜急自多，颇有不平，因以峻文诋，宠亦很强，歉负其功，嫌怨转积。
浮密奏宠遣吏迎妻而不迎其母，又受货贿，杀害友人，多聚兵谷，意计难量。
宠既积怨，闻之，遂大怒，而举兵攻浮。
浮以书质责之曰：盖闻知者顺时而谋，愚者逆理而动，常窃悲京城太叔以不知足而无贤辅，卒自弃于郑也。
伯通以名字典郡，有佐命之功，临人亲职，爱惜仓库，而浮秉征伐之任，欲权时救急，二者皆为国耳。
translation: 
◆Zhu Fu's biography, Zhu Fu's courtesy name is Shu Yuan, and he was a native of Xiao, Pei State.
At the beginning, he served as the chief secretary of the Grand Sima from Guangwu, then moved to the general position, and followed him to break Handan.
Guangwu sent Wu Han to punish Gengshi Youzhou Mu Miaozeng, so he worshiped Zhu Fu as the general Youzhou Mu and guarded Jicheng, so he settled the northern border.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Wuyang and was granted the title of Sanxian.
Zhu Funian had few talents, and he wanted to revive his reputation and win over the scholars. He recruited famous people like Wang Cen from Zhuo County in the state to serve as officials, and two thousand stones from Wang Mang's former officials.
Peng Chong, the prefect of Yuyang, believed that the world was uncertain and the divisions and brigade were booming, so it was not appropriate to hire more officials to damage the army's food reserves, so he did not listen to Zhu Fu's orders.
Zhu Fu has a reserved and impatient temperament and thinks very highly of himself. Very dissatisfied with Peng Chong. Because he slandered Peng Chong with harsh words; Peng Chong was also very strong and took the blame for his actions, so the resentment accumulated.
Zhu Fumi reported that Peng Chong sent officials to welcome his wife instead of his mother, he also accepted bribes, killed his friends, and gathered troops in many valleys. His intentions were unpredictable.
Peng Chong had a grudge in his heart and was furious when he heard about it, so he raised his troops to attack Zhu Fu.
Zhu Fu reproached him in a letter and said: I have heard that wise people plan according to the times, while fools act against reason. I often privately lamented that my uncle in the capital was not satisfied and had no wise people to help him. As a result, he abandoned himself to Zheng.
Botong presides over the county administration because of his prominent name. He has the function of assisting orders, attending to people's duties, and caring for warehouses. I am responsible for conquest, and I want to review and rescue emergencies. Both of them are for the sake of the country.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
即疑浮相谮，何不诣阙自陈，而为族灭之计乎？
朝廷之于伯通，恩亦厚矣，委以大郡，任以威武，事有柱石之寄，情同子孙之亲。
匹夫媵母尚能致命一餐，岂有身带三绶，职典大邦，而不顾恩义，生心外畔者乎！
伯通与吏人语，何以为颜？
行步拜起，何以为容？
坐卧念之，何以为心？
引镜窥影，何施眉目？
举措建功，何以为人？
惜乎弃休令之嘉名，造枭鸱之逆谋，捐传世之庆祚，招破败之重灾，高论尧、舜之道，不忍桀、纣之性，生为世笑，死为愚鬼，不亦哀乎！
伯通与耿侠游俱起佐命，同被国恩。
侠游廉让，屡有降挹之言；而伯通自伐，以为功高天下。
往时辽东有豕，生子白头，异而献之，行至河东，见群豕皆白，怀惭而还。
若以子之功论于朝廷，则为辽东豕也。
translation: 
Since you suspect that I have falsely accused you, why not report it to the capital and plan to destroy your clan?
The imperial court has been very kind to you Bo Tong. You have been entrusted with the title of Grand Commandery and given the title of Grand General.
A common man and a concubine can sacrifice themselves to repay the kindness of a meal. How can there be a person who wears three ribbons and holds a prestigious position, but ignores kindness and righteousness and is rebellious?
What was Bo Tong's appearance when he was talking to the officials?
When you walk and bow down, why should you be ashamed?
Sit down and think about it, why is your heart?
Take a look at yourself in the mirror, where should you focus?
If you make meritorious deeds with your actions, why should you be considered a human being?
It's a pity that you abandoned the honor of the beautiful order, created the treacherous conspiracy of owl and owl eating the mother, abandoned the blessings passed down to future generations, and caused serious disasters of ruin. You talked about the ways of Yao and Shun, but did not abandon the nature of Jie and Zhou. You lived as a laughing stock in the world and died as a fool. Isn't it very sad!
Bo Tong and Geng Kuang both stood up to support the Han Dynasty and received the country's favor.
Geng Kuang was humble and often spoke down, while Botong boasted of his abilities and thought that his achievements were the highest in the world.
In the past, there were pigs in Liaodong, and a white pig was born. The owner of the pig offered it as a gift. When he traveled to Hedong, he saw that all the pigs were white, so he returned it in shame.
If your merits are brought to the court for discussion, then you are just a Liaodong pig.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
今乃愚妄，自比六国。
六国之时，其势各盛，廓土数千里，胜兵将百万，故能据国相持，多历年世。
今天下几里，列郡几城，奈何以区区渔阳而结怨天子？
此犹河滨之人捧土以塞孟津，多见其不知量也！
方今天下适定，海内愿安，士无贤不肖，皆乐立名于世。
而伯通独中风狂走，自捐盛时，内听骄妇之失计，外信谗邪之谀言，长为群后恶法，永为功臣鉴戒，岂不误哉！
定海内者无私仇，勿以前事自误，愿留意顾老母幼弟。凡举事无为亲厚者所痛，而为见仇者所快。
宠得书愈怒，攻浮转急。
明年，涿郡太守张丰亦举兵反。
时，二郡畔戾，北州忧恐，浮以为天子必自将兵讨之，而但遣游击将军邓隆阴助浮。
translation: 
But now I am foolish and compare myself to the six countries.
During the period of the Six Kingdoms, each of them was in great power, with a territory thousands of miles away and millions of soldiers, so they were able to hold the country in stalemate for many years.
How big is the country today and how many cities are there in each county? How can you blame the emperor for just fishing?
This is just like the people on the riverside holding earth to block Mengjin, how overconfident they are!
Now that the world has been settled, peace is expected in the country, and scholars, whether virtuous or unworthy, are willing to make a name for themselves in the world.
But Bo Tong, who had a stroke alone, ran wild, abandoned his prosperous life, listened to the misguided plans of a charming woman, and believed in the slanderous flattery of outsiders. He has become a bad example to others and will always serve as a warning to heroes. Isn't it wrong?
Those who rule the world do not care about personal grudges. They hope not to make mistakes in the past. They are willing to take good care of their old mothers and young brothers. Whenever they do something, they should not be hurt by their relatives but happy by their enemies.
Peng Chong was even more angry than Shu and attacked Zhu Fu more urgently.
The next year, Zhang Feng, the governor of Zhuojun, also rebelled.
At this time, the two counties were rebellious and Beizhou was worried. Zhu Fu thought that the emperor would lead his own troops to conquer, but the imperial court only sent guerrilla general Deng Long to secretly help Zhu Fu.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
浮怀惧，以为帝怠于敌，不能救之，乃上疏曰：昔楚、宋列国，俱为诸侯，庄王以宋执其使，遂有投袂之师。
魏公子顾朋友之要，触冒强秦之锋。
夫楚、魏非有分职匡正之大义也，庄王但为争强而发忿，公子以一言而立信耳。
今彭宠反畔，张丰逆节，以为陛下必弃捐它事，以时灭之，既历时月，寂寞无音。
从围城而不救，放逆虏而不讨，臣诚惑之。
昔高祖圣武，天下既定，犹身自征伐，未尝宁居。
陛下虽兴大业，海内未集，而独逸豫，不顾北垂，百姓遑遑，无所系心。三河、冀州，曷足以传后哉！
今秋稼已熟，复为渔阳所掠。
张丰狂悖，奸党日增，连年拒守，吏士疲劳，甲胄生虮虱，弓弩不得施，上下焦心，相望救护，仰希陛下生活之恩。
诏报曰： 往年赤眉跋扈长安，吾策其无谷必东，果来归降。
今度此反虏，势无久全，其中必有内相斩者。
今军资未充，故须后麦耳。
translation: 
Zhu Fu was frightened, thinking that the emperor was slacking off and could not save him, so he went to Shu and said: In the past, all the countries of Chu and Song were princes. King Zhuang killed his envoy with Song, so he surrendered and raised troops to surround Song.
Wei Gongzi Wuji took into account his brother-in-law's needs and stole the talisman to risk the powerful Qin army.
Chu and Wei did not have the righteousness to uphold justice, King Zhuang was only angry for the sake of strength, and the young master only established his trust with one word.
Now that Peng Chong has rebelled and Zhang Feng has rebelled, he thinks that your majesty will abandon other things and destroy them in time. However, after such a long time, there is no sound or loneliness.
I let the enemy besiege the city but not save it, and let the rebels go but not take them back. I am really confused and confused.
In the past, the great ancestor of the Holy Martial Arts, the world was established, but he personally conquered it, and could not live in peace and tranquility.
Although your majesty has made great achievements, he has not gathered in the country, but lives alone in Henan, ignoring the northern border, and the people are indifferent. How can Sanhe and Jizhou be passed down to future generations?
The crops are ripe this autumn, and they are plundered by Yuyang again.
Zhang Feng was wildly rebellious, and traitors were increasing day by day. He refused to defend for years. His officers were tired, his armor was scratched, and he couldn't put down his bow and crossbow. Everyone was anxious, looking to each other for help, hoping for your majesty's grace in rescuing him.
The imperial edict reported: In previous years, Red Eyebrows violently invaded Chang'an. I expected that he would go eastward if he had no crops, and that he would eventually surrender.
Now it is expected that this rebellion will not last long, and someone among the thieves will definitely behead the thieves.
The military resources are not yet fully replenished, so we have to wait until after the wheat harvest.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
浮城中粮尽，人相食。
会上谷太守耿况遣骑来救浮，浮乃得遁走。
南至良乡，其兵长反遮之，浮恐不得脱，乃下马刺杀其妻，仅以身免，城降于宠，尚书令侯霸奏浮败乱幽州，构成宠罪，徒劳军师，不能死节，罪当伏诛。
帝不忍，以浮代贾复为执金吾，徙封父城侯。
后丰、宠并自败。
帝以二千石长吏多不胜任，时有纤微之过者，必见斥罢，交易纷扰，百姓不宁。
六年，有日食之异，浮因上疏曰：臣闻日者众阳之所宗，君上之位也。
凡居官治民，据郡典县，皆为阳为上，为尊为长。
若阳上不明，尊长不足，则干动三光，垂示王者。
五典纪国家之政，《鸿范》别灾异之文，皆宣明天道，以征来事者也。
陛下哀愍海内新罹祸毒，保宥生人，使得苏息。
translation: 
The food in Zhufu City is exhausted, and people eat each other.
It happened that Geng Kuang, the governor of Shanggu, sent cavalry to rescue Zhu Fu, so Zhu Fu had to escape.
When they reached Liangxiang in the south, the commander of his army blocked him. Zhu Fu was afraid that he would not be able to escape, so he dismounted and assassinated his wife. He only escaped death and the city surrendered to Peng Chong. The minister ordered Hou Ba to report Zhu Fu's defeat and chaos in Youzhou, which constituted Peng Chong's crime. The military commander's efforts were in vain and he could not die. The crime should be punished.
The emperor couldn't bear it, so he replaced Jia Fu with Zhu Fu as Jin Wu, and moved his father to be the Marquis of Chengdu.
Later, Peng Chong and Zhang Feng both failed.
The emperor has two thousand stone chiefs and many officials who are not qualified for their duties. Anyone who makes a slight mistake will be scolded. Changes and disturbances will make the people restless.
In the sixth year of Jianwu's reign, there was a solar eclipse, so Zhu Fu wrote a book about it: I heard that the sun is the origin of all the suns, and the king's position.
Anyone who is an official and governs the people, according to the prefectures and counties, regards Yang as the top, respect as the leader.
If the yang is unclear and the elders are not enough, then the sun, moon and stars will be violated to show the king.
The Five Codes record the affairs of the country, and the Hongfan records the disasters and disasters, all of which declare the way of heaven and test the future.
Your Majesty expresses sympathy for the new disasters in the country and protects the living people so that they can rest and recuperate.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
而今牧人之吏，多未称职，小违理实，辄见斥罢，岂不粲然黑白分明哉！
然以尧、舜之盛，犹如三考，大汉之兴，亦累功效，吏皆积久，养老于官，至名子孙，因为氏姓。
当时吏职，何能悉理；论议之徒，岂不喧哗。
盖以为天地之功不可仓卒，艰难之业当累日也。
而间者守宰数见换易，迎新相代，疲劳道路。
寻其视事日浅，未足昭见其职，既加严切，人不自保，各自顾望，无自安之心。
有司或因睚眦以骋私怨，苟求长短，求媚上意。
二千石及长吏迫于举劾，惧于刺讥，故争饰诈伪，以希虚誉。
斯皆群阳骚动，日月失行之应。
夫物暴长者必矢折，功卒成者必亟坏，如摧长久之业，而造速成之功，非陛下之福也。
天下非一时之用也，海内非一旦之功也。
愿陛下游意于经年之外，望化于一世之后，天下幸甚。
translation: 
Nowadays, most of the shepherd officials are not qualified for their duties, and few violate the truth. They are reprimanded at every turn. Isn't it clear that there is a clear distinction between black and white?
However, in the prosperous age of Yao and Shun, three tests were added, and the rise of the Han Dynasty also accumulated results. Officials accumulated for a long time and took care of themselves in their old age, so that their descendants took the official surname.
At that time, how could the officials take care of their duties? How could the people who discussed things not make a lot of noise?
I believe that the achievements of heaven and earth cannot be accomplished in a hurry, and that arduous tasks must be accomplished over time.
Recently, I have seen changes in keeping the number of prime ministers, welcoming new generations, and running tiredly on the road.
Due to lack of experience in handling matters, he is not able to fulfill his duties clearly. With strict and strict responsibilities, people cannot protect themselves. They look out for each other and cannot be at ease.
Some officials may retaliate for personal hatred due to small grudges, criticize their shortcomings, and seek flattery.
Erqianshi and other senior officials were forced to impeach and afraid of ridicule, so they tried to commit fraud in order to gain a false reputation.
This is the fulfillment of the turmoil of the sun and the misalignment of the sun and the moon.
Those who are violent with things will die young, and those who achieve sudden achievements will be destroyed immediately. If you destroy long-term achievements and achieve quick achievements, this is not your majesty's blessing.
The world is not a temporary thing, and the country is not a one-time success.
May your Majesty pay attention to the long-term plan and hope that it will be realized in a generation. The world is very lucky.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
帝下其议，群臣多同于浮，自是牧守易代颇简。
旧制，州牧奏二千石长吏不任位者，事皆先下三公，三公遣掾史案验，然后黜退。
帝时用明察，不复委任三府，而权归刺举之吏。
浮复上疏曰： 陛下清明履约，率礼无违，自宗室诸王、外家后亲，皆奉遵绳墨，无党势之名。
至或乘牛车，齐于编人。
斯固法令整齐，下无作威者也。
求之于事，宜以和平，而灾异犹见者，而岂徒然？
天道信诚，不可不察。
窃见陛下疾往者上威不行，不专国命，即位以来，不用旧典，信赖举之宫，黜鼎辅之任，至于有所劾奏，便加免退，复案不关三府，罪谴不蒙澄察。
translation: 
The emperor submitted his memorial to the subordinates for discussion. Most of the ministers agreed with Zhu Fu's opinion. From then on, Mu Shou's mobilizations decreased.
According to the old system, if the governor of the prefecture reported that two thousand officials were not appointed to their positions, they should first report it to the Third Duke, who would send a historian to verify the case, and then demote or dismiss him.
At that time, in order to facilitate clear inspection, the emperor no longer appointed the three government officials, and the power was returned to the officials of the state and animal husbandry.
Zhu Fufu went up to Shudao and said: "Your Majesty has fulfilled the contract clearly and without violating the etiquette. All the kings of the clan, concubines and relatives of the maternal family have all abided by the law and the law, and there is no name for forming cliques for personal gain."
Going out by bullock cart is just like the common people registered in the household registration.
Of course, the laws are in order and there are no domineering people below.
Is it in vain to ask for peace, but disasters still occur?
The sincerity of the way of heaven cannot be ignored.
I see that Your Majesty hates that in the past he was not powerful enough to issue orders for the country. Since he came to the throne, he has not used the old laws, trusted the officials of the state pastors, and abolished the offices of the three public officials. As long as someone impeaches a high official with two thousand stones, he will be exempted from retreat. The case cannot be redressed by the three government offices, and the punishment of the crime is not investigated.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
陛下以使者为腹心，而使者以从事为耳目，是为尚书之平，决于百石之吏，故群下苛刻，各自为能。
兼以私情容长，憎爱在职，皆竞张空虚，以要时利，故有罪者心不厌服，无咎者坐被空文，不可经盛衰，贻后王也。
夫事积久则自重，吏安则人自静。
传曰： 五年再闰，天道乃备。
夫以天地之灵，犹五载以成其化，况人道哉！
臣浮愚戆，不胜忄卷々，愿陛下留心千里之任，省察偏言之奏。
七年，转太仆。
浮又以国学既兴，宜广博士之选，乃上书曰：夫太学者，礼义之官，教化所由兴也。
陛下尊敬先圣，垂意古典，官室未饰，干戈未休，而先建太学，进立横舍，比日车驾亲临观飨，将以弘时雍之化，显勉进之功也。
寻博士之官，为天下宗师，使孔圣之言传而不绝。
translation: 
Your Majesty regards the envoy as his confidant, and the envoy regards his work as his eyes and ears. This is the responsibility of the minister, but it is decided by the officials of hundreds of stones. Therefore, the people are harsh and each can do his own thing.
In addition, personal feelings are allowed to grow, and hate and love are all controlled by those in office, and they all compete for the sake of temporary gains. Therefore, the guilty are not convinced, while the innocent are burdened by empty words. This practice cannot endure the ups and downs, and will be harmful to future generations.
When things accumulate for a long time, officials will respect themselves, and when officials make peace with the people, they will calm down.
The ancients said: Every five years, the way of heaven will be complete.
The spirit of heaven and earth is like a leap every five years to achieve its transformation, not to mention the human way?
Your Majesty, Zhu Fu, is foolish and cowardly, but sincere and sincere. May your Majesty pay attention to the mission of thousands of miles away and review the partial remarks.
After seven years, he became a servant.
Zhu Fu also thought that since Chinese studies were flourishing, the selection of doctors should be expanded, so he wrote: Taixue is the palace of etiquette and righteousness, and the source of the rise of education.
Your Majesty respects the sages and attaches great importance to the classics. His palaces are not decorated, and the wars are not over. Instead, he builds the Imperial Academy and establishes a school. Recently, he drove to visit in person. He will carry forward the teachings of stability and peace in current affairs and demonstrate the effect of encouraging progress.
The official who is looking for a doctor will be the master of the world and can make the words of Confucius and Saint spread endlessly.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
旧事，策试博士，必广求详选，爰自畿夏，延及四方，是以博举明经，惟贤是登，学者精励，远近同慕，伏闻诏书更试五人，惟取见在洛阳城者。
臣恐自今以往，将有所失。
求之密迩，容或未尽，而四方之学，无所劝乐。
凡策试之本，贵得其真，非有期会，不及远方也。
又诸所征试，皆私自发遣，非有伤费烦扰于事也。
语曰： 中国失礼，求之于野。
臣浮幸得与讲图谶，故敢越职。
帝然之。
二十年，代窦融为大司空，二十二年，坐卖弄国恩免。
二十五年，徙封新息侯。
帝以浮陵轹同列，每衔之，惜其功能，不忍加罪。
永平中，有人单辞告浮事者，显宗大怒，赐浮死。
translation: 
In the past, when planning for a doctorate, one had to search extensively and carefully select them. Since then, Wang Ji has spread all over China. Therefore, Ming Sutras have been extensively studied, and only the virtuous have been promoted. Scholars are enthusiastic and admired from far and near. I heard that the imperial edict tested five more people, and only those who are currently in Luoyang City were selected.
I'm afraid I will lose something from now on.
The scope of the talent search was too small, and the talents were not all included, and scholars from all over the world were not rushing forward.
The foundation of planning and examination is to obtain its truth. It cannot be as far away as a meeting without an appointment.
Moreover, all the expeditions were conducted privately, without any harm, expense or trouble.
As the saying goes: China is impolite and asks for help from the wild.
The minister Zhu Fu had the honor to participate in the explanation of the prophecy, so he dared to go beyond his duties and submit the memorial.
The emperor agreed.
In the 20th year of Jianwu's reign, Dou Rong became the Great Sikong. In the 22nd year, he was dismissed from office for showing off his national favor.
In the twenty-fifth year, he moved to Xinxihou.
The emperor said that Zhu Fu often insulted his fellow officials and hated him every time, but he cherished his merits and talents and could not bear to incriminate him.
During the Yongping period, someone accused Zhu Fu without evidence. Xianzong was furious and sentenced Zhu Fu to death.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
长水校尉樊言于帝曰： 唐尧大圣，兆人获所，尚优游四凶之狱，厌服海内之心，使天下咸知，然后殛罚。
浮事虽昭明，而未达人听，宜下廷尉，章著其事。
帝亦悔之。
论曰：吴起与田文论功，文不及者三，朱买臣难公孙弘十策，弘不得其一，终之田文相魏，公孙宰汉，诚知宰相自有体也。
故曾子曰： 君子所贵乎道者三，笾豆之事则有司存。
而光武、明帝躬好吏事，亦以课核三公，其人或失而其礼稍薄，至有诛斥诘辱之累。
任职责过，一至于此，追感贾生之论，不亦笃乎！
朱浮讥讽苛察欲速之弊，然矣，焉得长者之言哉！
冯鲂字孝孙，南阳湖阳人也。
其先魏之支别，食菜冯城，因以氏焉。
秦灭魏，迁于湖阳，为郡族姓。
王莽末，四方溃畔，鲂乃聚宾客，招豪桀，作营堑，以待所归。
translation: 
Fan Wei, the captain of the Changshui School, said to the emperor: The great sage Yao of the Tang Dynasty has been given to everyone in the world. He returned the prison of the four evils to the gentle and the soft. He was tired of obeying the hearts of the people in the sea and let the world know about it, and then he imposed capital punishment.
Although Zhu Fu's story is clear, but people don't know it, it is appropriate for Ting Wei to make it clear.
The emperor also repented.
The historian commented: Wu Qi and Tian Wen discussed merits. Tian Wen was not as good as Wu Qi in three things. Zhu Maichen was difficult for Gongsun Hong to make ten policies, and Hong couldn't make one. As a result, Tian Wen became the prime minister of Wei and Gongsun Hong became the prime minister of the Han Dynasty. It can be seen that prime ministers have their own people.
Therefore, Zengzi said: There are three things that a gentleman values ​​more than the Tao. The matters of sacrifice are the responsibility of the director and not the responsibility of human masters.
However, Emperor Guangwu and Emperor Ming were personally involved in official affairs, supervising the three princes to punish their industriousness and verify their gains and losses. If they made mistakes and their courtesy was a little weak, they would often be killed, dismissed, criticized, and insulted.
When it comes to fulfilling one's duty, wouldn't it be good to recall Jia Yi's theory that integrity and etiquette should be used to restrain a gentleman?
Zhu Fu ridiculed the shortcomings of haste, but was eventually killed. How could he hear the words of the elders?
◆The biography of Feng Li, named Xiaosun, was from Huyang, Nanyang.
His ancestor was a branch of Wei, and because he lived in Fengcheng, his surname was Feng.
Qin destroyed Wei and moved to Huyang, where he became a popular surname in the county.
In the last years of Wang Mang's reign, the four sides collapsed and rebelled. Feng Li gathered guests and recruited heroes to build a camp to await the Ming Dynasty.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
是时湖阳大姓虞都尉反城称兵，先与同县申屠季有仇，而杀其兄，谋灭季族。
季亡归鲂，鲂将季欲还其宫，道逢都尉从弟长卿来，欲执季。
鲂叱长卿曰： 我与季虽无素故，士穷想归，要当以死任之，卿为何言？
遂与俱归。
季谢曰： 蒙恩得全，死无以为报，有牛马财物，愿悉献之。
鲂作色曰： 吾老亲弱弟皆在贼城中，今日相与，尚无所顾，何云财物乎？
季惭不敢复言。
鲂自是为县邑所敬信，故能据营自固。
时天下未定，而四方之士拥兵矫称者甚众，唯鲂自守，兼有方略。
光武闻而嘉之，建武三年，征诣行在所，见于云台，拜虞令。
为政敢杀伐，以威信称。
迁郏令。
translation: 
At this time, Yu Duwei, a famous Huyang surname, rebelled against the city and proclaimed his troops. He first had a grudge against Shentu Ji from the same county and killed his brother, planning to kill Shentu Ji's whole family.
Shen Tuji fled to Feng Li, who led Shen Tu Ji to return to camp. On the way, he met Yu Duwei's cousin Yu Changqing, who was preparing to capture Shen Tu Ji.
Feng Li scolded Yu Changqing and said: "Although Shentu Ji and I have never been in contact with each other, we have returned to each other in poverty. If I have to die, what do you have to say?"
So he went back with him.
Shen Tuji thanked him and said: "I have received all my favors, but I can't repay you even if I die. I have cattle, horses and property, and I would like to dedicate them all to you."
Feng Li said angrily: "My relatives and weak brothers are all in the city of thieves. Today we meet each other, but we don't care about it. How can we talk about property?"
Shen Tuji was too ashamed to say anything more.
From then on, Feng Li was respected and trusted by the county, so he was able to establish his own camp.
At that time, the world was uncertain, and there were many soldiers from all over the world who supported the army under false pretenses. Only Feng Li defended himself with caution and strategy.
Guangwu heard about it and commended him. In the third year of Jianwu's reign, he was summoned to the emperor's residence, met him at Yuntai, Nangong, and paid homage to the magistrate of Yu County.
He dares to kill in politics and is famous for his prestige.
Moved to Jiaxian County.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
后车驾西征隗嚣，颍川资贼群起，郏贼延褒等众三千余人，攻围县舍，鲂率吏士七十许人，力战连日，弩矢尽，城陷，鲂乃遁去。
帝闻郡国反，即驰赴颍川，鲂诣行在所。
帝案行斗处，知鲂力战，乃嘉之曰： 此健令也。所当讨击，勿拘州郡。
褒等闻帝至，皆自髡剔，负鈇锧，将其众请罪。
帝且赦之，使鲂转降诸聚落，县中平定，诏乃悉以褒等还鲂诛之。
鲂责让以行军法，皆叩头曰： 今日受诛，死无所恨。
鲂曰： 汝知悔过伏罪，今一切相赦，听各反农桑，为令作耳目。
皆称万岁。
是时每有盗贼，并为褒等所发，无敢动者，县界清静。
十三年，迁魏郡太守。
二十七年，以高等入代赵憙为太仆。
translation: 
When Hou Guangwu went west to conquer Kaixiao, bandits from Yingchuan gathered together. Yanbao, the Jia thief, and three thousand others attacked the county building. Feng Li led more than seventy officials and fought hard for days. After all their bows and arrows were exhausted, the city fell, and Feng Li fled.
When the emperor heard that the county was rebelling, he rushed to Yingchuan. Feng Li arrived at the emperor's location.
The emperor inspected the place where the battle was taking place and found out that Feng Li had fought hard. He commended him and said: "This is a brave and strong county magistrate. He should attack immediately without being limited to the state and county."
When Yan Bao and others heard that the emperor had arrived, they all shaved their heads, sat on their backs, and led others to come to apologize.
The emperor temporarily pardoned his crime, ordered Feng Li to surrender all the settlements, and the county was pacified. He also ordered Yan Bao and others to be returned to Feng Li for execution.
Feng Li ordered the general to conduct military exercises. The thieves all kowtowed and said, "I will be punished today, and I will die without regret."
Feng Li said: "I know that I have repented of my sins. Now I am pardoning all my sins and allowing them to go back to farming and serve as the eyes and ears of the county magistrate."
All the thieves hailed him as long live him.
At this time, every thief was reported by Yan Bao and others, and no one dared to move. The county boundary was quiet.
In the thirteenth year of Jianwu's reign, he moved to Wei County to be the prefect.
In the twenty-seventh year, he was appointed as the imperial servant of Zhao with outstanding talent and learning.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
中元元年，从东封岱宗，行卫尉事。
还，代张纯为司空，赐爵关内侯。
二年，帝崩，使鲂持节起原陵，更封杨邑乡侯，食三百五十户。
永平四年，坐考陇西太守邓融，听任奸吏，策免，削爵士。
六年，显宗幸鲁，复行卫尉事。
七年，代阴嵩为执金吾。
鲂性矜严公正，在位数进忠言，多见纳用。
十四年，诏复爵士。
明年，东巡郡国，留鲂宿卫南宫。
卒，子肃嗣，为黄门侍郎。
虞延字子大，陈留东昏人也。
延初生，其上有物若一匹练，遂上升上，占者以为吉。
及长，长八尺六寸，要带十围，力能扛鼎。
少为户牖亭长。
translation: 
In the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, he was granted the title of Taishan from the east of the emperor and acted as an agent for the Wei Wei.
After returning, he replaced Zhang Chun as Sikong and was given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
In the second year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, the emperor died, so Feng Yi held the Fujie to build the original mausoleum. He also granted Yang Yi the title of Marquis of the Township and granted him the title of 350 households.
In the fourth year of Yongping's reign, because he was scrutinizing Deng Rong, the governor of Longxi, he allowed traitors to be convicted, and he was dismissed from office and his land was reduced.
In the sixth year of Yongping, Xianzong was favored by Lu, and Feng Li resumed his duties as a guard.
In the seventh year, Yin Song was appointed as King Wu.
Feng Li was strict and fair in nature, and he gave loyal advice during his tenure. Commonly adopted and implemented.
In the fourteenth year, the imperial edict was issued to restore the title of land.
In the second year, the emperor visited the prefectures in the east and left Feng Yi to stay in Weinan Palace.
In the third year of Jianchu's reign, he begged to retire because of his old illness, and Suzong agreed. In the winter of this year, it was the fifth watch in Feng Yi's hometown. The emperor ordered Feng Yi to congratulate him and give him the title of marquis.
In the second year of Yuanhe, he died at the age of eighty-six. ◆The biography of Yu Yan, whose courtesy name is Zi Da, was born in Chen Liudong.
When Yu Yan was born, there was something like a piece of white silk on it, which slowly rose to the sky. The fortune teller thought it was auspicious.
When he grew up, he was eight feet six inches long, ten circumferences wide, and strong enough to lift a cauldron.
When he was young, he was the head of Hutiao Pavilion.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
时王莽贵人魏氏宾客放从，延率吏卒突入其家捕之，以此见怨，故位不升。
性敦朴，不拘小节，又无乡曲之誉。
王莽末，天下大乱，延常婴甲胄，拥卫亲族，御抄盗，赖其全者甚众。
延从女弟年在孩乳，其母不能活之，弃于沟中，延闻其号声，哀而收之，养至成人。
建武初，仕执金吾府，除细阳令。
每至岁时伏腊，辄休遣徒系，各使归家，并感其恩德，应期而还。
有囚于家被病，自载诣狱，既至而死，延率掾史，殡于门外，百姓感悦之。
后去官还乡里，太守富宗闻延名，召署功曹。
宗性奢靡，车服器物，多不中节。
延谏曰： 昔晏婴辅齐，鹿裘不完，季文子相鲁，妾不衣帛，以约失之者鲜矣。
宗不悦，延即辞退。
居有顷，宗果以侈从被诛，临当伏刑，揽涕而叹曰： 恨不用功曹虞延之谏！
光武闻而奇之。
translation: 
At that time, Wang Mang's nobleman Wei's guests indulged in indulgence, and Yu Yan led officials and soldiers to break into his home and arrest him. He was resented and could not be promoted.
Yu Yan has an honest and simple temperament, informal and does not have the reputation of country music.
In the last years of Wang Mang, the world was in chaos. Yu Yan often put on armor to defend his relatives and defended against bandits. Many people relied on him for safety.
Yu Yan's cousin was an infant and her mother could not feed her, so she abandoned her in a ditch. Yu Yan heard her cry, took pity on her, adopted her, and raised her up.
At the beginning of Jianwu period, he served as an official in Zhijinwu Mansion and was appointed as the magistrate of Xiyang County.
Every year when the year comes, Fula often sends prisoners home. The prisoners appreciate his kindness and return them as scheduled.
Some prisoners got sick at home and returned to prison by car. They died in prison after returning. Yu Yan led his troops to send the funeral outside the door, and the people were grateful and happy.
Later, when he resigned and returned to his hometown, the prefect Fu Zong heard about Yu Yan's reputation and called him to serve as a meritorious official.
The wealthy clan is extravagant and wasteful, and many of its cars, services and utensils are not in compliance with the law.
Yu Yan advised: "In the past, when Yan Ying assisted the Qi State, he wore cloth and deer fur, and Ji Wenzi was the prime minister of Lu. My concubines had no clothes, no silk horses, no grain, so it was very rare for me to suffer losses due to frugality."
Fu Zong was unhappy and Yu Yan resigned immediately.
Soon, Fu Zong was executed for his extravagance. Before he was executed, he cried and sighed: I only regretted that I did not accept the advice of Yu Yan, the meritorious Cao Cao!
Guangwu was surprised when he heard about it.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
二十年东巡，路过小黄，高帝母昭灵后园陵在焉，时延为部督邮，诏呼引见，问园陵之事。
延进止从容，占拜可观，其陵树株蘖，皆谙其数，俎豆牺牲，颇晓其礼。
帝善之，敕延从驾到鲁。
还经封丘城门，门下小，不容羽盖，帝怒，使挞侍御史，延因下见引咎，以为罪在督邮。
言辞激扬，有感帝意，乃制诰曰： 以陈留督邮虞延故，贳御史罪。
延从送车驾西尽郡界，赐钱及剑带佩刀还郡，于是声名遂振。
二十三年，司徒玉况辟焉。
时元正朝贺，帝望而识延，遣小黄门驰问之，即日召拜公车令。
明年，迁洛阳令。
是时，阴氏有客马成者，常为奸盗，延收考之。
阴氏屡请，获一书辄加二百。
信阳侯阴就乃诉帝，谮延多所冤枉。
帝乃临御道之馆，亲录囚徒。延陈其狱状可论者在东，无理者居西。
成乃回欲趋东，延前执之，谓曰： 尔人之巨蠹，久依城社，不畏熏烧。
今考实未竟，宜当尽法！
成大呼称枉，陛戟郎以戟刺延，叱使置之。
帝知延不私，谓成曰： 汝犯王法，身自取之！
呵使速去。
后数日伏诛，于是外戚敛手，莫敢干法。
在县三年，迁南阳太守。
translation: 
Twenty years later, when the emperor was patrolling the east, he passed by Xiaohuang and saw the tomb of Emperor Gao's mother, Zhaoling, in the Houyuan Garden. At that time, Yu Yan was the governor of the ministry. The emperor introduced him and asked about the garden and mausoleum.
Yu Yan advanced and stopped calmly, and the obeisance was impressive. The number of trees and tillers in his mausoleum were all in compliance with the regulations.
The emperor praised him as a good man and ordered Yu Yan to go from the emperor to Lu.
Returning through the Fengqiu city gate, the gate was so low that the emperor's car cover decorated with green feathers could not pass through. The emperor was angry and ordered people to whip the censor. Yu Yan got out of the car to pay homage to the emperor, thinking that the crime was on the postal supervisor.
The impassioned and high-pitched words moved the emperor, and he issued a decree saying: "For the sake of Chen Liudu's post to Yu Yan, the censor's sins should be pardoned."
Yu Yan followed the chariot and drove westward to the county boundary, and returned to the county with rewards of money and swords and sabers, and his reputation increased.
In the twenty-third year of Jianwu's reign, Situ Yukuang summoned Yu Yan.
On the first day of the first lunar month, when the emperor saw Yu Yan, he recognized him and sent Xiaohuangmen to ask him. On the same day, he summoned him as his bus commander.
In the second year, the order was moved to Luoyang.
At this time, the Yin family had a guest named Ma Cheng, who was often a treacherous thief, and Yu Yan was tortured.
The Yin family repeatedly asked for forgiveness, and Yu Yan received an additional letter of 200 blows.
When the Marquis of Xinyang arrived, he sued the emperor, falsely accusing Yu Yan of doing many things and wrongfully accusing good people.
The emperor went to the Yudao Hall in person to interrogate and record the prisoners' crimes. Yu Yan reported that the prison records could be studied and discussed in the east, and those that could not be discussed should be sent to the west.
Ma Cheng turned around and wanted to go east. Yu Yan stepped forward to catch him and said to him: "You are a giant beetle among people. You have relied on the protection of the powerful for a long time and are not afraid of being burned."
The truth test is not over yet and should be dealt with according to law!
Ma Cheng cried out that he was wronged, and the emperor's jilang stabbed Yu Yan with his halberd, scolding Yu Yan to let Ma Cheng go.
The emperor knew that Yu Yan was selfless and said to Ma Cheng: "You have violated the king's law and you brought it upon yourself."
Tell him to go quickly.
The Fa-rectification took place within a few days. So the relatives held back their hands and did not dare to break the law.
After three years in the county, he moved to Nanyang to be the governor.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
永平初，有新野功曹邓衍，以外戚小侯每豫朝会，而容姿趋步，有出于众，显宗目之，顾左右曰： 朕之仪貌，岂若此人！
特赐舆马衣服。
延以衍虽有容仪而无实行，未尝加礼。
帝既异之，乃诏衍令自称南阳功曹诣阙。既到，拜郎中，迁玄武司马。
衍在职不服父丧，帝闻之，乃叹曰：  知人则哲，惟帝难之。
信哉斯言！
衍惭而退，由是以延为明。
三年，征代赵憙为太尉；八年，代范迁为司徒，历位二府，十余年无异政绩。
translation: 
In the early years of Yongping, there was Deng Yan, a new minister in the field, who was a relative of Xiaohou, and his appearance and posture were outstanding. When Xianzong saw them, he said to his surroundings: "How can I look like this person?"
The horse is given special clothes.
Yu Yan thought that although Deng Yan had good looks but no manners, he refused to salute him.
The emperor felt strange, so he ordered Deng Yan to call himself Nanyang Gongcao and go to the emperor's golden palace. When he arrived, he became a doctor and moved to Xuanwu Sima.
Deng Yan's father died in office and he refused to accept his father's death. When the emperor heard about it, he sighed: He who can understand others is a philosopher, and it is difficult for only the emperor to do so.
This is true.
Deng Yan retreated in shame, and everyone regarded Yu Yan as a wise man.
In the third year of Yongping, he conquered Yu Yan and replaced Zhao as Taiwei; in the eighth year, he replaced Fan Qian as Situ. The successive officers of Taiwei and Situ had no unusual political achievements for more than ten years.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
桓帝时为尚书，以议诛大将军梁冀功封都亭侯，后为司空，坐水灾免。性疾恶宦官，遂为所陷，灵帝初，与长乐少府李膺等俱以党事诛。郑弘字巨君，会稽山阴人也。从祖吉，宣帝时为西域都护。
弘少为乡啬夫，太守第五伦行春，见而深奇之，召署督邮，举孝廉。
弘师同郡河东太守焦贶。
楚王英谋反发觉，以疏引贶，贶被收捕，疾病于道亡没，妻子闭系诏狱，掠考连年。
诸生故人惧相连及，皆改变名姓，以逃其祸，弘独髡头负鈇锧，诣阙上章，为贶讼罪。
显宗觉悟，即赦其家属，弘躬送贶丧及妻子还乡里，由是显名。
translation: 
It happened that Liu Ying, the king of Chu, was plotting a rebellion. The Yin family wanted to plot to slander him, and secretly sent people to tell Yu Yan about the rebellion of the king of Chu. Yu Yan thought that the king of Chu Liu Ying was a close relative of the vassal, and did not believe that he would rebel. He also wanted to recruit Gongsun Hong, an employee of Youzhou, to come to Beijing as an official. He stopped because Gongsun Hong had contacts with the king of Chu, but did not report the situation to the emperor. Later, Liu Ying's rebellion was discovered by the emperor, who condemned Yu Yan with an edict, and Yu Yan committed suicide. The family is very poor, and the children and grandchildren are inevitably discouraged. ◆Zheng Hongchuan, also known as Zheng Hong, was a native of Shanyin in Kuaiji. His ancestor Zheng Ji was the Protector of the Western Regions during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
When Zheng Hong was a young man, he was a misfit in his hometown. The prefect of Wu Lun went on a spring trip. When he saw Zheng Hong, he was deeply surprised and called him temporarily to be the postal supervisor to promote filial piety and integrity.
Zheng Hong once took Jiao Kuang, the prefect of Hedong in the same county, as his teacher.
King Liu Ying of Chu was discovered to have rebelled, and he implicated Jiao Kuang in a letter. Jiao Kuang was arrested and died of illness on the road. His wife and son were imprisoned and tortured for several years.
His students were afraid that they would be implicated, so they changed their names to escape the disaster. Zheng Hong alone shaved off his hair and carried iron and steel, and went to the palace to get a seal to plead guilty to Jiao Kuangxue.
When Emperor Xianzong came to his senses, he pardoned his family members. Zheng Hong personally sent Jiao Kuang and his wife and children back to his hometown, which made him famous.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
拜为驺令，政有仁惠，民称苏息。
迁淮阳太守。
四迁，建初初，为尚书令。
旧制，尚书郎限满补县长令史丞尉。
弘奏以为台职虽尊，而酬赏甚薄，至于开选，多无乐者，请使郎补千石令，令史为长。
帝从其议。
弘前后所陈有补益王政者，皆著之南宫，以为故事。
出为平原相，征拜侍中。
建初八年，代郑众为大司农。
旧交阯七郡贡献转运，皆从东冶泛海而至，风波艰阻，沉溺相系。
弘奏开零陵、桂阳峤道，于是夷通，至今遂为常路。
在职二年，所息省三亿万计。
时岁天下遭旱，边方有警，人食不足，而帑藏殷积。
弘又奏宜省贡献，减徭费，以利饥人。
帝顺其议。
元和元年，代邓彪为太尉。
时举将第五伦为司空，班次在下，每正朔朝见，弘曲躬而自卑。
帝问知其故，遂听置云母屏风，分隔其间，由此以为故事。
translation: 
As the magistrate of Zuxian County, politics will be benevolent and the people will be able to rest and recuperate.
Moved to Huaiyang as governor.
After four migrations, in the early years of Jianchu, he was appointed as Shangshu Ling.
According to the old regulations, when Shangshu Lang's term of office expires, he will replace the county magistrate, Shi Chengwei.
Zheng Hongzou thought that although the position was prestigious, the reward was very meager. When the election came, most of them were unhappy and asked Shangshu Lang to supplement the Thousand Stone Order to make history longer.
The emperor followed his advice.
Things that Zheng Hong mentioned before and after that were beneficial to the king's government were all recorded in Nangong as stories.
He came out to be the king of Pingyuan and worshiped his ministers.
In the eighth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, he replaced Zheng Zhong as the chief agricultural officer.
The goods contributed by the seven counties of old Jiaozhi were transferred across the sea from Dongye. The storms were difficult and shipwrecks often occurred.
Zheng Hongzou opened the Lingling and Guiyang mountain roads, so the mountain roads were widened and leveled to become future passages.
During Zheng Hong's two years in office, he saved 3 trillion yuan in assets.
At that time, the world was suffering from drought, there were police on the border, people had insufficient food, but there was a lot of money accumulated.
Zheng Hong also reported that the province should contribute and reduce corvee fees to benefit the hungry people.
The emperor accepted his suggestion.
In the first year of Yuanhe, Zheng Hong replaced Deng Biao as Taiwei.
At that time, Zheng Hong had elected his fifth Lun as Sikong, who was below him. Every time he went to court at Zhengshuo, Zheng Hong would bow down and feel inferior.
The emperor asked and knew the reason, so he listened to his words and put up a mica screen to separate Zheng Hong from the Fifth Lun. This became a system.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
在位四年，奏尚书张林阿附侍中窦宪，而素行臧秽，又上洛阳令杨光，宪之宾客，在官贪残，并不宜处位。
书奏，吏与光故旧，因以告之。
光报宪，宪奏弘大臣漏泄密事。
帝诘让弘，收上印绶。
弘自诣廷尉，诏敕出之，因乞骸骨归，未许。
病笃，上书陈谢，并言窦宪之短。
帝省章，遣医占弘病，比至已卒。
临殁悉还赐物，敕妻子褐巾布衣素棺殡殓，以还乡里。
周章子次叔，南阳随人也。
初仕郡为功曹。
时大将军窦宪免，封冠军侯就国。
章从太守行春到冠军，太守犹欲谒之。
章进谏曰： 今日公行春，岂可越仪私交。
且宪椒房之亲，势倾王室，而退就籓国，祸福难量。
明府剖符大臣，千里重任，举止进退，其可轻乎？
translation: 
In the fourth year of his reign, he reported to Shangshu Zhang Lin that he flattered and supported Dou Xian, his attendant, but had always harbored filth. He also reported to Luoyang Ling Yang Guang that he was Dou Xian's guest. He was corrupt and disabled in office and should not stay in his original position.
The official who was in charge of the memorial was an old friend of Yang Guang, so he informed Yang Guang.
Yang Guang reported to Dou Xian, so Dou Xian reported that Zheng Hong had leaked secrets as a minister.
The emperor ordered Zheng Hong to take back his seal and ribbon.
Zheng Hong came to Tingwei to plead guilty and ordered him to leave. Because he asked to resign, he was not allowed to do so.
When he was seriously ill, he wrote a letter to express his gratitude and pointed out Dou Xian's shortcomings.
The emperor read the memorial and sent a doctor to see Zheng Hong's illness. By the time the doctor arrived, Zheng Hong had already died.
Before his death, he returned all the things the emperor had given him and ordered his wife and children to be buried in brown turbans and plain coffins before returning to his hometown.
◆Zhou Zhangzhuan, also known as Uncle Zhou Zhang, was a native of Sui County, Nanyang County.
At first, he was a meritorious official in the county.
At this time, the general Dou Xian was granted the title of champion and returned to the country.
Zhou Zhang went from the prefect to the championship, and the prefect also wanted to pay homage to Dou Xian.
Zhou Zhangjin remonstrated: "Today we are traveling for official business, how can we go beyond etiquette and make private friends with powerful people?"
Moreover, Dou Xian is a relative of the concubine and has great influence on the royal family. Now that he has retired to the vassal state, it is difficult to measure the blessings and misfortunes.
You are the Minister of Talisman Dissection, and you have a heavy responsibility of thousands of miles. How can you act rashly when you move forward or retreat?


Chunk 19: 
original: 
太守不听，遂便升车。
章前拔佩刀绝马鞅，于是乃止。
及宪被诛，公卿以下多以交关得罪，太守幸免，以此重章。
举孝廉，六迁为五官中郎将。
延平元年，为光禄勋。
永初元年，代魏霸为太常。
其冬，代尹勤为司空。
是时中常侍郑众，蔡伦等皆秉势豫政，章数进直言。
初，和帝崩，邓太后以皇子胜有痼疾，不可奉承宗庙，贪殇帝孩抱，养为己子，故立之，以胜为平原王。
及殇帝崩，群臣以胜疾非痼、意咸归之，太后以前既不立，恐后为怨，乃立和帝兄清河孝王子祐，是为安帝。
章以众心不附，遂密谋闭宫门，诛车骑将军邓骘兄弟及郑众、蔡伦，劫尚书，废太后于南宫，封帝为远国王，而立平原王胜。
事觉，策免，章自杀。
家无余财，诸子易衣而出，并日而食。
translation: 
The prefect refused to listen and wanted to raise the chariot.
Zhou Zhang went to draw his sword and cut the leather around the horse's neck, and the prefect was forced to stop.
When Dou Xian was executed, most of the officials below the public minister were offended for associating with Dou Xian, but the prefect was spared, so they valued Zhou Zhang.
He was promoted to be filial and honest, and he was promoted to the rank of Langjiang with five sense organs in the sixth year.
In the first year of Yanping, he was named Guang Luxun.
In the first year of Yongchu, he succeeded Wei Ba as Taichang.
In the winter of this year, Dai Yinqin was appointed Sikong.
At this time, the ministers Zheng Zhong and Cai Lun were using their power to intervene in the government affairs, and Zhou Zhang spoke out several times.
At first, after the death of Emperor He, Empress Dowager Deng thought that the prince Liu Sheng had a chronic illness and could not flatter the ancestral temple. Emperor Shang was a young child and was raised as her own son, so she made him the prince and made Liu Sheng the king of Pingyuan.
After the death of Emperor Shang, the ministers thought that Liu Sheng's illness was not a chronic illness, and all advocated the appointment of Liu Sheng. Since the Queen Mother had not established Liu Sheng before, fearing that the queen would resent her, she appointed Liu Sheng, the son of Prince Xiao of Qinghe, the emperor's brother, as Emperor An.
Zhou Zhang thought that the public was unwilling to follow him, so he conspired to close the palace gates, kill the brothers of Chariot and Cavalry General Deng Zhi, Zheng Zhong, and Cai Lun, hijack the minister, deposed the Queen Mother in the South Palace, made Emperor An the king of Yuan, and made Liu Sheng, the king of Pingyuan, the emperor.
The plot was discovered, the plan was dismissed, and Zhou Zhang committed suicide.
The family had no money left, so they changed their clothes and went out to eat by the sun.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
论曰：孔子称 可与立，未可与权 。
权也者，反常者也。
将从反常之事，必资非常之会，使夫举无违妄，志行名全。
周章身非负图之托，德乏万夫之望，主无绝天之？地有既安之执，而创虑于难图，希功于理绝，不已悖乎！
如令君器易以下议，即斗筲必能叨天业，狂夫竖臣亦自奋矣。
孟轲有言曰： 有伊尹之心则可，无伊尹之心则篡矣。
於戏，方来之人戒之哉！
translation: 
The historian commented: Confucius said that you can accomplish meritorious deeds with others, but you cannot compete with others for power.
Quan is something abnormal.
From abnormal things, you will take advantage of extraordinary opportunities, so that your actions will not become empty, and your aspirations will be fulfilled.
Zhou Zhang was not entrusted by Emperor Wu like Huo Guang, and his virtue was not admired by thousands of people. His master was invincible, and the earth was in peace, so he conspired to create troubles and hoped to achieve great results. Isn't it ridiculous?
If it were easier for the ruler to make decisions from below, then those who fight against evil will surely be able to claim their karma from heaven, and the madmen and mediocre officials will continue to struggle.
Mencius once said: If you have Yi Yin's heart, it is okay, but if you don't have Yi Yin's heart, it will constitute usurpation.
Alas, people in the future should be warned!


