Chunk 0: 
original: 
昔者圣人拟宸极以运璿玑，揆天行而序景曜，分辰野，辨躔历，敬农时，兴物利，皆以系顺两仪，纪纲万物者也。
然则观象设卦，扐闰成爻，历数之原，存乎此也。
逮乎炎帝，分八节以始农功，轩辕纪三纲而阐书契，乃使羲和占日，常仪占月，臾区占星气，伶伦造律吕，大挠造甲子，隶首作算数。
容成综斯六术，考定气象，建五行，察发敛，起消息，正闰余，述而著焉，谓之《调历》。
洎于少昊则凤鸟司历，颛顼则南正司天，陶唐则分命羲和，虞舜则因循尧法。
及夏殷承运，周氏应期，正朔既殊，创法斯异。
《传》曰： 火出，于夏为三月，于商为四月，于周为五月。
是故天子置日官，诸侯有日御，以和万国，以协三辰。
至乎寒暑晦明之徵，阴阳生杀之数，启闭升降之纪，消息盈虚之节，皆应躔次而无淫流，故能该浃生灵，堪舆天地。
周德既衰，史官失职，畴人分散，禨祥不理。
秦并天下，颇推五胜，自以获水德之瑞，用十月为正。
汉氏初兴，多所未暇，百有余载，袭秦正朔。
爰及武帝，始诏司马迁等议造《汉历》，乃行夏正。
其后刘歆更造夏《三统》，以说《左传》，辩而非实，班固惑之，采以为志。
逮光武中兴，太仆硃浮数言历有乖谬，于时天下初定，未能详考。
至永平之末，改行《四分》，七十余年，仪式乃备。
及光和中，乃命刘洪、蔡邕共修律历，其后司马彪因之，以继班史。
translation: 
In the past, sages used xuanji to simulate the movement of the North Star. They observed the movement of the sky to examine the length of the sun's shadow and the movement of the sun, moon and five stars. They divided the corresponding areas of the sky on the earth, identified the calendar, taught the agricultural season, and made all things prosperous. It was related to the reconciliation of yin and yang and the governance of all things.
Then observing celestial phenomena to establish hexagrams, adding leap months to describe seasonal movements, this is the essence of the calendar.
Emperor Yan distinguished eight seasons to guide agriculture, Xuanyuan established three principles to explain writing, appointed Xihe to be responsible for counting the sun, Chang Yi to tell the moon, and the astrological Qi in the instant area.
Rong Cheng synthesized the methods of the above six schools, examined the solar terms and celestial phenomena, established the five elements, examined the movements of the sun and the moon, and wrote "Adjusting the Calendar".
In the Shaowu period, Fengniao was in charge of the calendar, in the Zhuanxu period, Nanzheng was in charge of astronomy, in the Tao and Tang Dynasties, Xi Yuhe was in charge, and in the Yao period, Yu and Shun inherited the calendar.
By the Xia, Shang, and Zhou dynasties, their Zhengshuo and calendars were different.
"Biography" says: When the big Mars comes out, it is March in the Xia Dynasty, April in the Shang Dynasty, and May in the Zhou Dynasty.
Therefore, the emperor set up sun officials, and the princes set up sun emperors to bring peace to all nations and coordinate the sun, moon, and stars.
So that the phenomena of cold and heat, the fixed number of life and death of yin and yang, the beginning and end of each period, and the changes of solar terms are all consistent with the position of the sun without error, so it can harmonize all living things and connect heaven and earth.
With the decline of the Zhou Dynasty, the historians failed in their duties and the personnel engaged in astronomical and calendar work were dispersed, leaving the phenomenon of good and bad luck unsupervised.
The Qin State annexed the world and highly respected the principle of the five elements' mutual interdependence and mutual restraint. They believed that they had obtained the auspicious response of the water virtue, and took October as the first month.
The Han family had just emerged and had no time to take care of many things. It followed the calendar of the Qin Dynasty for more than a hundred years.
It was not until Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty that he ordered Sima Qian and others to discuss the creation of the "Han Calendar" and decided to use Xia Zheng.
Later, Liu Xin created the "Santong Li" and used it to explain the "Zuo Zhuan". His explanation seemed eloquent, but in fact it was untrue. Ban Gu was confused by him and wrote the "Santong Li" and its explanation of the "Zuo Zhuan" in the "Moshu".
When Emperor Guangwu established Shuhan, his servant Zhu Fu wrote many times saying that the calendar used by Xing was wrong. Since the world had just settled down at that time, he could not examine it in detail.
It was not until the last years of Yongping that the "Four Point Calendar" was used. It was not completed until more than seventy years later.
During the Guanghe period, Liu Hong and Cai Yong were appointed to revise the legal calendar. Later, Sima Biao compiled the "Book of the Later Han Dynasty" based on their work.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
今采魏文黄初已后言历数行事者，以续司马彪云。汉灵帝时，会稽东部尉刘洪，考史官自古迄今历注，原其进退之行，察其出入之验，视其往来，度其终始，始悟《四分》于天疏阔，皆斗分太多故也。
更以五百八十九为纪法，百四十五为斗分，作《乾象法》，冬至日日在斗二十二度，以术追日、月、五星之行，推而上则合于古，引而下则应于今。
其为之也，依《易》立数，遁行相号，潜处相求，名为《乾象历》。
又创制日行迟速，兼考月行，阴阳交错于黄道表里，日行黄道，于赤道宿度复有进退。
方于前法，转为精密矣。
献帝建安元年，郑玄受其法，以为穷幽极微，又加注释焉。
魏文帝黄初中，太史令高堂隆复详议历数，更有改革。
太史丞韩翊以为《乾象》减斗分太过，后当先天，造《黄初历》，以四千八百八十三为纪法，千二百五为斗分。
其后尚书令陈群奏，以为： 历数难明，前代通儒多共纷争。
《黄初》之元以《四分历》久远疏阔，大魏受命，宜改历明时，韩翊首建，犹巩不审，故以《乾象》互相参校。
其所校日月行度，弦望朔晦，历三年，更相是非，无时而决。
案三公议皆综尽典理，殊涂同归，欲使效之璿玑，各尽其法，一年之间，得失足定。
奏可。
太史令许芝云： 刘洪月行术用以来且四十余年，以复觉失一辰有奇。
孙饮议： 史迁造《太初》，其后刘歆以为疏，复为《三统》。
章和中，改为《四分》，以仪天度，考合符应，时有差跌，日蚀觉过半日。
至熹平中，刘洪改为《乾象》，推天七曜之符，与天地合其叙。
董巴议云： 圣人迹太阳于晷景，效太阴于弦望，明五星于见伏，正是非于晦朔。
translation: 
"Tianwen Zhi" to inherit Ban Gu's "Han Shu". Astronomical Chronicles. We now collect the words and deeds of Emperor Wen of Wei and Huang Chu in discussing the calendar to inherit Sima Biao's work. During the reign of Emperor Ling of the Han Dynasty, Liu Hong, the eastern captain of Kuaiji, studied the calendars and annotations from ancient times to the present, investigated the movements of the sun, moon, and five stars, and found that the reason why the "Four Points Calendar" did not match the celestial phenomena was because there were too many points.
So Liu Hong used five hundred and eighty-nine as the rule and one hundred and forty-five as the fighting points, and wrote the "Qian Xiang Method". On the winter solstice, the sun was at 22 degrees of the Dou constellation. He used his calendar to calculate the movements of the sun, the moon, and the five planets. The upper part is consistent with ancient records, and the lower part is consistent with current observations.
The formulation of the "Qian Xiang Calendar" is based on the establishment of basic data based on the "Yi" and the calculation of variables based on the movement of celestial bodies, which is called the "Qian Xiang Calendar".
He also created the technique of delaying the movement of the sun, and examined the movement of the moon. The white path intersects with the ecliptic, and the sun moves on the surface of the ecliptic, advancing and retreating on the equator.
Compared with the previous calendar, it is more precise.
In the first year of Jian'an reign of Emperor Xian of the Han Dynasty, Zheng Xuan studied Liu Hong's calendar, thought it was very precise, and made annotations on it.
During the Huangchu period of Emperor Wen of Wei, Taishi ordered Gao Tanglong to discuss the calendar in detail again and made some changes.
Taishi Cheng Han Yi believed that the "Qianxiang Calendar" reduced too many dou points, and after a period of time, the calculated results must be ahead of the actual celestial phenomena, so he created the "Huang Chu Li" with 4,883 as the rule and 1,205 as the dou points.
Later, Shangshu ordered Chen Qun to submit a report, saying: The calendar is difficult to understand, and there have been many debates among Confucian scholars in previous generations.
In the first year of Huangchu, because the "Four Points Calendar" had been used for a long time and had errors with the actual celestial phenomena, the Wei Dynasty was ordered to change the calendar to make it clearer. Han Yi created the calendar for the first time. He was worried about making mistakes, so he used the "Qianxiang Calendar" to compare and correct with the calendar he created.
He spent three years researching and comparing the motions of the sun and moon calculated based on the two calendars, and the times when the quadrature, lunation, new moon, and twilight appeared. He still couldn't decide on the differences between the two calendars.
Although the discussions of the Three Lords are different, they are all consistent with the classics and calendar principles. In the end, they reach the same goal through different paths. Astronomical instruments should be used to test the accuracy of different calendars. It only takes one year to prove the gains and losses.
The emperor ordered the above method to be adopted.
Taishi Ling Xu Zhi believed: The method of calculating lunar motion created by Liu Hong has been in use for more than 40 years, and the calculation results differ from the actual celestial phenomena by more than an hour.
Sun Qin believes that: Sima Qian wrote and compiled the Taichu Calendar. Later, Liu Xin thought that the Taichu Calendar was rough, so he created the Santong Calendar.
During the Zhanghe period, the "Four Points Calendar" was switched to use, and instruments were used for calibration and verification. It was found that errors often occurred, and the occurrence of eclipses differed from the prediction by half a day.
During the Xiping period, Liu Hong switched to the Qianxiang Calendar and calculated the movements of the moon, the moon, and the five planets, which were consistent with the actual celestial phenomena.
Dong Ba believes that: The sage used the sundial shadow to examine the sun, used the string and angle to test the movement of the moon, used the sight and observation to verify the movement of the five planets, and used the Hui and Shuo as the standards to judge the accuracy of the calendar.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
弦望伏见者，历数之纲纪，检验之明者也。
徐岳议： 刘洪以历后天，潜精内思二十余载，参校汉家《太初》、《三统》、《四分》历术，课弦望于两仪郭间。
而月行九岁一终，谓之九道；九章，百七十一岁，九道小终；九九八十一章，五百六十七分而九终，进退牛前四度五分。
学者务追合《四分》，但减一道六十三分，分不下通，是以疏阔，皆由斗分多故也。
课弦望当以昏明度月所在，则知加时先后之意，不宜用两仪郭间。
洪加《太初》元十二纪，减十斗下分，元起己丑，又为月行迟疾交会及黄道去极度、五星术，理实粹密，信可长行。
今韩翊所造，皆用洪法，小益斗下分，所错无几。
翊所增减，致亦留思，然十术新立，犹未就悉，至于日蚀，有不尽效。
效历之要，要在日蚀。
熹平之际，时洪为郎，欲改《四分》，先上验日蚀：日蚀在晏，加时在辰，蚀从下上，三分侵二。
事御之后如洪言，海内识真，莫不闻见，刘歆以来，未有洪比。
夫以黄初二年六月二十九日戊辰加时未日蚀，《乾象术》加时申半强，于消息就加未，《黄初》以为加辛强，《乾象》后天一辰半强为近，《黄初》二辰半为远，消息与天近。
三年正月丙寅朔加时申北日蚀，《黄初》加酉弱，《乾象》加午少，消息加未，《黄初》后天半辰近，《乾象》先天二辰少弱，于消息先天一辰强，为远天。
三年十一月二十九日庚申加时西南维日蚀，《乾象》加未初，消息加申，《黄初》加未强，《乾象》先天一辰远，《黄初》先天半辰近，消息《乾象》近中天。
translation: 
Xian, Wang, Jian and Fu are the key points of the calendar and can be used as signs to test the quality of the calendar.
Xu Yue believes: Because the calendar calculation results at that time lagged behind the actual celestial phenomena, Liu Xuan devoted himself to research for more than 20 years, referring to the "Taichu", "Santong" and "Sifen" calendars of the Han Dynasty, and using Liangyi Guojian to examine the moon phases.
The moon runs for nine years and has an end, which is called the Nine Paths; the nine chapters include one hundred and seventy-one years, the number of the nine small endings; the nine-nine and eighty-one chapters, five hundred and sixty-seven are divided into nine endings, advancing and retreating four degrees and five minutes in front of the Ox constellation.
If scholars want to make it consistent with the "Four Points Calendar", they only need to subtract one sixty-three points from it. The following points are incomprehensible, so the roughness is due to too many points.
When examining Xian and Wang, you should measure the position of the moon in the morning and evening. Then you will know the meaning of adding time, and it is not appropriate to use the two instruments Guojian.
The epochs of Liu Hong's "Qianxiang Calendar" added twelve periods to the epochs of the "Taichu Calendar" and subtracted ten from the epochs of the "Taichu Calendar".
The calendar created by Han Yi now uses Liu Hong's method, but with a slight addition of Douxiafen. There is not much difference between the two.
The addition and deletion of Han Yi also took a lot of thought. However, the new calendar cannot be complete immediately, so that the prediction of the solar eclipse is not completely consistent with the actual situation.
The key to testing the calendar lies in solar eclipses.
During the Xiping period, Liu Hong was a Langguan and wanted to revise the "Four Points Calendar", so he first submitted an examination of the solar eclipse. He calculated an upcoming solar eclipse. According to preliminary calculations, this eclipse occurred at Chen hour, and the solar eclipse eclipsed two-thirds from bottom to top.
After observation, it was proved that this eclipse was exactly as Liu Hong predicted. Liu Hong became famous because of this. Since Liu Xin, no one can compare with him.
For example, the Wuchen eclipse on June 29, the second year of Huangchu, was half strong at Shen hour according to the "Qianxiang Calendar". After adding the news correction, it was at Weishi. According to the "Huangchu Calendar", it was calculated at Xinshi. The calculated result of the "Qianxiang Calendar" lagged behind the actual celestial phenomena by one and a half centimeters in the near sky, and the "Huangchu Calendar" lagged behind by two and a half centimeters in the far sky. With the news correction, it was close to the actual celestial phenomena.
In the first month of the third year, the northern solar eclipse is at Bingyin and Shuo Shen. According to the "Huangchu Calendar", it is calculated to be weak at You hour. According to the "Qianxiang Calendar", it is calculated to be less than noon. After the correction of the news, it is at Wei hour. According to the "Huangchu Calendar", it is half an hour the day after tomorrow.
On November 29th of the third year, Gengshen added a solar eclipse in the southwest dimension. According to the "Qianxiang Calendar", it is calculated to be at the beginning of the Wei hour. After adding the news and correction, it is at the Shen hour. According to the "Huangchu Calendar", it is calculated to be strong at the Weishi.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
二年七月十五日癸未，日加壬月加丙蚀，《乾象》月加申，消息加未，《黄初》月加子强，入甲申日，《乾象》后天二辰，消息后一辰为近，《黄初》后天六辰远。
三年十一月十五日乙巳，日加丑月加未蚀，《乾象》月加巳半，于消息加午，《黄初》以丙午月加酉强，《乾象》先天二辰近，《黄初》后天二辰强为远，于消息于《乾象》先一辰。
凡课日月蚀五事，《乾象》四远，《黄初》一近。
翊于课难徐岳： 《乾象》消息但可减，不可加。
加之无可说，不可用。
岳云：本术自有消息，受师法，以消息为奇，辞不能改，故列之正法消息。
翊术自疏。
木以三年五月二十四日丁亥晨见；《黄初》五月十七日庚辰见，先七日；《乾象》五月十五日戊寅见，先九日。
土以二年十一月二十六日壬辰见；《乾象》十一月二十一日丁亥见，先五日；《黄初》十一月十八日甲申见，先八日。
土以三年十月十一日壬申伏；《乾象》同，壬申伏；《黄初》已下十月七日戊辰伏，先四日。
土以三年十一月二十二日壬子见；《乾象》十一月十五日乙巳见，先七日；《黄初》十一月十二日壬寅见，先十日。
金以三年闰六月十五日丁丑晨伏；《乾象》六月二十五日戊午伏，先十九日；《黄初》六月二十二日乙卯伏，先二十三日。
金以三年九月十一日壬寅见；《乾象》以八月十八日庚辰见，先二十三日；《黄初》八月十五日丁丑见，先二十五日。
水以二年十一月十七日癸未晨见；《乾象》十一月十三日己卯见，先四日；《黄初》十一月十二日戊寅见，先五日。
水以二年十二月十三日己酉晨伏；《乾象》十二月十五日辛亥伏，后二日；《黄初》十二月十四日庚戌伏，后一日。
水以三年五月十八日辛巳夕见；《乾象》亦以五月十八日见；《黄初》五月十七日庚辰见，先一日。
水以三年六月十三日丙午伏；《乾象》六月二十日癸丑伏，后七日；《黄初》六月十九日壬子伏，后六日。
水以三年闰六月二十五日丁亥晨见；《乾象》以闰月九日辛未见，先十六日；《黄初》闰月八日庚午见，先十七日。
水以三年七月七日己亥伏；《乾象》七月十一日癸卯伏，后四日；《黄初》以七月十日壬寅伏，后三日。
水以三年十一月日于晷度十四日甲辰伏；《乾象》以十一月九日己亥伏，先五日；《黄初》十一月八日戊戌伏，先六日。
水以三年十二月二十八日戊子夕见；二历同以十二月壬申见，俱先十六日。
凡四星见伏十五；《乾象》七近二中，《黄初》五近一中。
郎中李恩议： 以太史天度与相覆校，二年七月、三年十一月望与天度日皆差异，月蚀加时乃后天六时半，非从三度之谓，定为后天过半日也。
translation: 
On the 15th day of July in the second year, Guiwei, Ren month plus propylene eclipse, "Qianxiang calendar" month plus Shen, news plus Wei, "Huangchu calendar" month plus Ziqiang, enter Jiashen, "Qianxiang calendar" two hours the day after tomorrow, plus news one hour the day after tomorrow, near day, "Huangchu calendar" six hours the day after tomorrow, far day.
On November 15th of the third year, Yisi, the sun is added to the ugly month and the moon is not eclipsed. In the "Qianxiang Calendar", the month is already half, and in the news, noon is added.
A total of five solar and lunar eclipses were tested, four in the "Qian Xiang Calendar" and one in the "Huang Chucuo".
Han Yi challenged Xu Yue: The information in "Qian Xiang Calendar" can only be corrected by deletions, not additions.
There is no way to add it and it is not available.
Xu Yue replied: "Qianxiang Calendar" itself has a message correction method, which is inherited from the teacher. The message correction is unique and cannot be changed, so the message is listed as the correct method.
Han Yi's calendar itself is crude.
Jupiter appeared on the morning of Dinghai on May 24th, the third year of the lunar month. According to the Huangchu Calendar, Gengchen appeared on May 17, seven days in advance; according to the Qianxiang Calendar, Wuyin appeared on May 15, nine days in advance.
Renchen appeared on November 26, the second year of Saturn. According to the "Qianxiang Calendar", Dinghai appeared on November 21, five days in advance; according to the "Huangchu Calendar", Jiashen appeared on November 18, eight days in advance.
On October 11th of the third year of Saturn, Ren Shen fell. According to the Qianxiang Calendar, it is calculated as Renshen Fu; according to the Huangchu Calendar, it is Wuchen Fu on October 7th, which is the fourth day of Xiantian.
Renzi appeared on November 22nd of the third year of Saturn. According to the Qianxiang Calendar, Yisi appeared on November 15th, seven days in advance; according to the Huangchu Calendar, Renyin appeared on November 12th, ten days in advance.
Venus will fall in the morning on Ding Chou on the fifteenth day of the sixth month in the third year of leap year. According to the "Qianxiang Calendar", it is calculated that Wuwu falls on June 25, which is the 19th day of the month; according to "Huang Chucuo", it is Yimao that falls on June 22, which is the 23rd day of the month.
Renyin appeared on September 11th, the third year of Venus. According to the "Qianxiang Calendar", Gengchen appears on August 18th, the 23rd day of the ancestral period; according to the "Huangchu Calendar", Ding Chou appears on August 15th, the 25th day of the ancestral period.
Mercury appeared on the morning of November 17, the second year of Mercury. According to the Qianxiang Calendar, Ji Mao appears on November 13th, four days in advance; according to the Huangchu Calendar, Wuyin appears on November 12th, five days in advance.
Mercury will be in the morning on December 13, 2nd year. According to the Qianxiang Calendar, the Xinhai Fu falls on December 15th, the day after tomorrow; according to the Huangchu Calendar, the Gengxu Fu falls on December 14, the day after tomorrow.
Mercury appeared in the evening of Xinsi on May 18th in the third year of Mercury. According to the Qianxiang Calendar, it also appears on May 18th; according to the Huangchu Calendar, Gengchen appears on May 17th, which is one day in advance.
Mercury will be in Bingwu on June 13th of the third year. According to the Qianxiang Calendar, Guichou falls on June 20, seven days the day after tomorrow; according to the Huangchu Calendar, Renzi falls on June 19, six days the day after tomorrow.
Mercury appears on the morning of Dinghai on June 25th in the third year of leap year. According to the Qianxiang calendar, if Xin does not appear on the 9th of the leap month, it will be 16 days in advance; according to Huang Chucuo, if Gengwu appears on the 8th of the leap month, it will be 17 days in advance.
Mercury will be in twilight on July 7, the third year. According to calculations, Guimao falls on the eleventh day of July, four days after tomorrow; according to the Huangchu Calendar, Renyin falls on July 10, three days the day after tomorrow.
Mercury falls on the fourteenth day of the eleventh month of the third year of the lunar calendar. According to the Qianxiang Calendar, Jihai Fu falls on November 9th, which is the Xiantian 5th day; according to the Huangchu Calendar, Wuxu Dayu falls on November 8th, which is the Xiantian 6th day.
Mercury appeared in the evening of Wuzi on December 28th in the third year of Mercury. According to the "Linxiang Calendar" and "Huangchu Calendar", it is estimated that Renshen appeared in December, which is the 16th day of the day.
The above lists the appearance and concealment of Saturn, Jupiter, Venus, and Mercury fifteen times in total. Among them, "Qian Xiangcuo" is close to the sky seven times, twice on the same day as the actual celestial phenomenon, and "Huangchu Li" is close to the sky five times, once on the same day as the actual celestial phenomenon.
Li En, a doctor, believes: Comparing the celestial phenomena calculated by Ethereum and the actual celestial phenomena, it is found that there are differences between the celestial degrees in July of the second year and November of the third year and the calculated celestial degrees. The calculated lunar eclipse occurred six and a half hours behind the actual celestial phenomena. This is different from the statement that the difference is three degrees, and should be determined to be more than half a day after tomorrow.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
董巴议曰： 昔伏羲始造八卦，作三画，以象二十四气。
黄帝因之，初作《调历》。
历代十一，更年五千，凡有七历。
颛顼以今之孟春正月为元，其时正月朔旦立春，五星会于庙，营室也，冰冻始泮，蛰虫始发，鸡始三号，天曰作时，地曰作昌，人曰作乐，鸟兽万物莫不应和，故颛顼圣人为历宗也。
汤作《殷历》弗复以正月朔旦立春为节也，更以十一月朔旦冬至为元首，下至周鲁及汉，皆从其节，据正四时。
夏为得天，以承尧舜，从颛顼故也。
《礼记》大戴曰虞夏之历，建正于孟春，此之谓也。
杨伟请： 六十日中疏密可知，不待十年。
若不从法，是校方员弃规矩，考轻重背权衡，课长短废尺寸，论是非违分理。
若不先定校历之本法，而悬听弃法之末争，则孟轲所谓 方寸之基，可使高于岑楼 者也。
今韩翊据刘洪术者，知贵其术，珍其法。
而弃其论，背其术，废其言，违其事，是非必使洪奇妙之式不传来世。
若知而违之，是挟故而背师也；若不知而据之，是为挟不知而罔知也。
校议未定，会帝崩而寝。
至明帝景初元年，尚书郎杨伟造《景初历》。
表上，帝遂改正朔，施行伟历，以建丑之月为正，改其年三月为孟夏，其孟、仲、季月虽与夏正不同，至于郊祀蒐狩，班宣时令，皆以建寅为正。
三年正月帝崩，复用夏正。
其刘氏在蜀，仍汉《四分历》。
吴中书令阚泽受刘洪《乾象法》于东莱徐岳，又加解注。
中常待王蕃以洪术精妙，用推浑天之理，以制仪象及论，故孙氏用《乾象历》，至吴亡。
武帝践阼，泰始元年，因魏之《景初历》，改名《泰始历》。
杨伟推五星尤疏阔，故元帝渡江左以后，更以《乾象》五星法代伟历。
乾象历上元己丑以来，至建安十一年丙戌，岁积七千三百七十八年。
translation: 
Dong Ba believes: In the past, Fuxi pioneered the Bagua and made three paintings to compare with the twenty-four solar terms.
Huangdi inherited this method and wrote "Calendar Calendar" for the first time.
After eleven generations and five thousand years, the Communist Party has used seven calendars.
Zhuanxu used the current first month of Mengchun as the calendar year. At the beginning of spring on the morning of the first day of the first lunar month, the five planets met in the heavenly temple, that is, the camp. The ice began to thaw, and hibernating animals began to come out and move. The rooster began to crow three times before the day came.
When Tang made the "Yin Calendar", he did not use the beginning of spring on the morning of the first lunar month as the calendar year. Instead, he used the winter solstice on the morning of the eleventh day of the first lunar month as the first calendar year. This method was used from the Zhou, Lu and Han dynasties, and the seasons were determined accordingly.
Xia inherited Yao and Shun, and the calendar and the weather were consistent with each other, because they inherited Zhuanxu's methods.
This is what Dadai said in the Book of Rites that the calendar of Yu and Xia was established in Meng Chun.
Yang Wei believes: Within sixty days, the roughness and precision of the calendar can be known, there is no need to wait ten years.
But if we do not follow the laws of the calendar itself, it is equivalent to not using rules and moments to correct the square and circle, not using a scale to determine the weight of an object, not using a ruler to determine the length of an object, and not judging the right and wrong of things according to certain principles.
If we do not first determine the method of testing the calendar, but only argue verbally, it will lead to the absurd situation that Meng Ke said, "a square inch of foundation can be higher than a lofty tower."
Now Han Yi formulates the calendar based on Liu Hong's method because he knows the value of Liu Hong's calendar method.
However, he abandoned Liu Hong's calendar theory, violated Liu Hong's calendar technique, abandoned Liu Hong's words, and violated Liu Hong's actions. This will definitely prevent the wonders of Liu Hong's calendar from being passed down to the next life.
If Han Yi really knew and disobeyed Liu Hong, that would be a deliberate disobedience to the teacher; if he did not know Liu Hong's calendar and relied on it, that would be true ignorance.
The proposal for verification was not finalized. It happened that the emperor passed away, and the affair was put on hold.
In the first year of Jingchu, Emperor Ming Dynasty, Shangshu Lang Yang Wei formulated the "Jingchu Calendar".
After the proposal to change the calendar was submitted, the emperor immediately decided to correct Shuo and implement the calendar created by Yang Wei, using Chou month as the first month and changing March of that year to Meng Xia. Although the Meng, Zhong and Ji months were different from Xia Zheng, Jian Yin was used as the first month for holding suburban sacrificial ceremonies, hunting, and issuing seasonal orders.
In the first month of the third year, the emperor died and Xia Zheng was appointed again.
The Liu family in Shu still used the Han Dynasty's "Four Points Calendar".
Wu Guozhong's Shuling Chanze learned Liu Hong's "Qian Xiang Li" from Xu Yue Nahu of Donglai Dynasty and annotated it.
Wang Fan, the Minister of the Central Committee, thought Liu Hong's calendar was very sophisticated, so he used it to deduce the principles of the Huntian Theory, and used it to create the Armillary Sphere, the Hunyianxiang and the Huntian Theory. Therefore, Sun's Wu State used the "Qianxiang Calendar" until the fall of the Wu Kingdom.
Emperor Wu of the Jin Dynasty obtained the throne. In the first year of Taishi, he followed the "Jingchu Li" of the Wei Dynasty and changed its name to "Taishi Li".
Yang Wei's "Jingchu Calendar" was particularly inaccurate in calculating the positions of the five planets. Therefore, after Emperor Jin Yuan traveled south and founded the country, he replaced the calculation method in Yang Wei's "Jingchu Calendar" with the method of calculating the positions of the five planets in the "Qianxiang Calendar".
Since the early Huang Dynasty, all calendars that have been made or modified have referred to the "Qianxiang Calendar" and added or subtracted from its basic data such as bucket points, lunar eclipses, changes in monthly movement rates, etc., in order to achieve a compromise. Liu Hong's calendar technique is the model for later generations of calendar techniques, so it is listed below first. In the Shangyuan Dynasty, Jichou ended in the eleventh year of Bingxu, totaling 7,378 years.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
乾法，千一百七十八。
会通，七千一百七十一。
纪法，五百八十九。
周天，二十一万五千一百三十。
通法，四万三千二十六。
通数，三十一。
日法，千四百五十七。
岁中，十二。
余数，三千九十。
章岁，十九。
没法，百三。
章闰，七。
会数，四十七。
会岁，八百九十三。
章月，二百三十五。
会率，千八百八十二。
朔望合数，九百四十一。
会月，万一千四十五。
纪月，七千二百八十五。
元月，一万四千五百七十。
月周，七千八百七十四。
小周，二百五十四。
推入纪
置上元尽所求年，以乾法除之，不满乾法，以纪法除之，余不满纪法者，入内纪甲子年也。
满法去之，入外纪甲午年也。推朔
置入纪年，外所求，以章月乘之，章岁而一，所得为定积月，不尽为闰余。
闰余十二以上，岁有闰。
以通法乘定积月，为假积日，满日法为定积日，不尽为小余。
以六旬去积日为大余，命以所入纪，算外，所求年天正十一月朔日也。
求次月，加大余二十九，小余七百七十三，小余满日法从大余。
小余六百八十四已上，其月大。
推冬至
置入纪年，外所求，以余数乘之，满纪法为大余，不尽为小余。
以六旬去之，命以纪，算外，天正冬至日也。
求二十四气
置冬至小余，加大余十五，小余五百一十五，满二千三百五十六从大余，命如法。
推闰月
以闰余减章岁，余以岁中乘之，满章闰为一月。
translation: 
Dry method: one thousand one hundred and seventy-eight.
Huitong: seven thousand one hundred and seventy-one.
Discipline: five hundred and eighty-nine.
Zhou Tian: Two hundred and fifteen thousand one hundred and thirty.
Tongfa: Forty-three thousand and twenty-six.
Pass number: thirty-one.
Said method: one thousand four hundred and fifty-seven.
Middle age: twelve.
Remainder: three thousand and ninety.
Chapter age: nineteen.
No way: one hundred and three.
Zhang Run: Seven.
Number of sessions: forty-seven.
Years old: eight hundred and ninety-three.
Zhang Yue: Two hundred and thirty-five.
Meeting rate: one thousand eight hundred and eighty-two.
The synodic total is: nine hundred and forty-one.
Meeting month: eleven thousand and forty-five.
Jiyue: seven thousand two hundred and eighty-five.
January: fourteen thousand five hundred and seventy.
Month and week: seven thousand eight hundred and seventy-four.
Xiao Zhou: Two hundred and fifty-four.
Push into the record:
Divide the accumulated years from Shangyuan by the Qianfa, and divide the remainder smaller than the Qianfa by the Jifa. If the remainder is smaller than the Jifa, the remainder is the number of Jiazi years in the Neiji Jiazi.
If the remainder is greater than Jifa, divide the remainder by Jifa and remove the Shangfu, then the remainder obtained is the Fujiawu year of the Jiawu year in the Waiji year. Suggestions:
Subtract one from the number of years in the year you want, multiply it by Zhang months, and then divide it by Zhang years. The resulting quotient is a fixed number of accumulated months, and the remainder is a leap remainder.
If there are more than twelve leap months, then there is a leap month in the desired year.
Multiply the fixed product month by the general method, and the product obtained is the false product day. If you divide the false product day by the day method, the quotient obtained is the definite product day, and the remainder is the small remainder.
Divide the fixed accumulated days by sixty, and the remainder is a large remainder. Counting from the time when it enters the calendar, it is the first day of the eleventh month of the desired year.
Find the day of the next first lunar month: add twenty-nine to the big surplus of the previous month, and add seven hundred and seventy-three to the small surplus of the previous month. If the small surplus obtained is greater than the daily value, turn it into a big surplus.
If Xiaoyu is greater than 684, then this month is a big month.
Promote the winter solstice:
Subtract one from the number of years in the calendar year you want, multiply by the remainder, and divide the product by the discipline method. The quotient obtained is a large remainder and the remainder is a small remainder.
Divide the remainder by sixty, keep the remainder, and count it from the time it enters the calendar. If you do not count, it will be the winter solstice in the year you want.
Asking for the twenty-four Qi:
First list the winter solstice Dayu, multiply the winter solstice small remainder by four, add fifteen to the day solstice to get the new Dayu, add four times the winter solstice small remainder to 515, divide the sum by 2356, add the large remainder to the obtained quotient, and the sum is the large remainder of the solar terms sought. The naming method is the same as when searching for the winter solstice.
Promote leap month:
Subtract the leap year by the leap year, multiply by the middle year, divide the product by the leap year, and the resulting quotient is the month in which the leap month is located.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
不尽，半法己上亦一，有进退，以无中月。
推弦望
加大余七，小余五百五十七半，小余如日法从大余，余命如前，得上弦。
又加得望，又加得下弦，又加得后月朔。
其弦望定小余四百一以下，以百刻乘之，满日法得一刻，不尽什之，求分，以课所近节气夜漏未尽，以算上为日。
推没
置入纪年，外所求，以余数乘之，满纪法为积没，有余加尽积为一。
以会通乘之，满没法为大余，不尽为小余。
大余命以纪，算外，冬至后没日。
求次没，加大余六十九，小余六十四，满其法从大余，无分为灭。
推日度
以纪法乘积日，满周天去之，余以纪法除之，所得为度。
命度以牛前五度起，宿次除之，不满宿，即天正朔夜半日所在。
求次日，加一度，经斗除分；分少，损一度为纪法，加焉。
推月度
以月周乘积日，满周天去之，余满纪法为度，不尽为分，命如上，则天正朔夜半月所在度。
求次月，小月加度二十二，分二百五十八。
大月又加一日，度十三，分二百一十七，满法得一度。
translation: 
If the division cannot be completed, if the remainder is greater than half of the leap month, one month will be added to the month where the leap month is located. The above method sometimes has discrepancies. A more accurate method is to use the month with no zhongqi to set the leap month.
Bending:
On the basis of the Dayu in November of Tianzheng, add seven, add 557.5 to the small remainder, divide the small remainder by the day method, add the Dayu to the resulting quotient, and the remainder is the new Xiaoyu. The remaining method is the same as before, and the result is the first quarter day.
Add one more time in the same way to get the waning sun, add another time to get the waning day, and add another time to get the new moon of the next month.
To determine the xian and wang time, if the small remainder of the xian and gazing time is less than 401, multiply the small remainder by one hundred quarters, divide the product by the day method, and the quotient obtained is the quarter. Multiply the decimal part by ten and turn it into points. Examine the night leakage of the nearby solar term, and the calculated number is called day.
Pushed:
Subtract one from the number of years in the year you are looking for, multiply by the remainder three thousand and ninety, and then divide it by Jifa 589. The obtained quotient is the product. If there is a remainder, add it to make it equal to Jifa, and add one to the product.
Multiply Huitong seven thousand one hundred and seventy-one by product and divide it by one hundred and three. The quotient obtained is a large remainder and the remainder is a small remainder.
Dayu is counted from the time when it enters the calendar. If not included, it means the day after the winter solstice.
To find the next day: Add the big remainder sixty-nine to the last day to get a new day. Add the small remainder sixty-four. After adding the small remainder, when it is above one hundred and three, it turns into a day. If there is no remainder, it is the day of death.
Prediction:
Multiply the product by the discipline method five hundred and eighty-nine, and subtract the product when it is above the Zhou Tian 215,130. The remaining part that is less than the Zhou Tian is divided by the discipline method five hundred and eighty-nine, and the result is the degree.
It is said that the degree is calculated from the five degrees before the Niu constellation, and the degrees of the previous constellations are subtracted in turn until it is less than a certain constellation degree, then this is the constellation degree where the sun is located at midnight on the first day of the first lunar month.
Find the location of the second sun: add one degree to the previous day. When passing through the Dou Su, you need to subtract the Dou Su points; if the remaining points are less than the Dou Su points, then subtract one degree to become Jifa 589, and then add the Dou Su points and then subtract the Dou Su points.
Recommended monthly:
Multiply the product of the month and week 7874, and subtract the product when the week and day are more than 215,130. The remaining part less than the week and day is divided by the rule of law 589. The obtained quotient is calculated as the month, and the remainder is divided into points. The remaining method is the same as the calculation of the day and day, and the celestial degree of the moon at midnight on the day of Tianzhengshuo can be obtained.
Find the celestial degree of the next new moon: If it is a small moon, add 22 to the monthly value of the previous month, and add 258 to the monthly value.
If it is a big month, add one day to the month, add thirteen to the month, and the month is divided into one hundred and seventeen. If the point is above Ji Fa, turn it into degree.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
其冬下旬，月在张、心署之。
推合朔度
以章岁乘朔小余，满会数为大分；不尽，小分。
以大分从朔夜半日分，满纪法从度，命如前，天正合朔日月所共会也。
求次月，加度二十九，大分三百一十二，小分满会数从大分，大分满纪法后度，经斗除大分。
求弦望日所在度，加合朔度七，分二百二十五，小分十七半，大小分及度命如前，则上弦日所在度。
又加得望、下弦、后月合。
求弦望月行所在度，加合朔度九十八，大分四百八，小分四十一，大小分及度命如前合朔，则上弦月所在。
又加得望、下弦、后月合。
求日月昏明度，日以纪法，月以月周，乘所近节气夜漏，二百而一为明分。
日以减纪法，月以减月周，余为昏分。
各以加夜半，如法为度。
推月蚀
置上元年，外所求，以会岁去之，其余年以会率乘之，如会岁为积蚀，有余加积一。
会月乘之，如会率为积月，不尽为月余。
以章闰乘余年，满章岁为积闰，以减积月，余以岁中去之，不尽，数起天正。
求次蚀，加五月，月余千六百三十五，满会率得一月，月以望。
translation: 
In the late winter, the moon marked Zhang Su and Xin Su.
Push and combine with Shuodu:
Multiply Zhang Sui Nineteen by Tianzheng Shuo Xiaoyu, and divide it by Huishu forty-seven. The obtained quotient is a large cent; the remainder is a small cent.
Take the Great Divide plus the half-diurnal minute of the new moon and the night. If the sum is above Jifa 589, turn it into a degree. The method for calculating the celestial degree is the same as before. The obtained celestial degree is the position when the sun and moon meet at the time when Tianzheng is in conjunction with the lunar hour.
Find the positions of the sun and moon at the conjunction of the next month: On the basis of the conjunction of the previous month, add twenty-nine to the day, add three hundred and twelve to the great division, and add twenty-five to the minor division. The minor division will be above forty-seven when it is converted into the great division, and the great division will be above Jifa 589 when it is converted into the degree. When passing through the Douban constellation, it is necessary to remove the Douban constellation.
To find the degree of the constellation of the string and the lunar hour: add seven to the degree of the last lunar New Year, add two hundred and twenty-five to the great minute, add 17.5 to the minor minute, and convert between major minutes, minor minutes and degrees. The method of determining the degree of the constellation of the chord is as before, and you can get the degree of the constellation of the last lunar hour.
Accumulation can be used to determine the degrees of the lunar calendar, the last quarter, and the next month's conjunct and lunar hour.
To find the celestial degree of the quarter and the moon at the hour: On the basis of the last lunar conjunct, add ninety-eight to the day degree, add 408 to the great minute, and add 41 to the minor minute. The conversion between major minutes, minor minutes and degrees, and the method of determining the celestial degree of the moon at the first quarter can be obtained as before.
The accumulation can be used to obtain the celestial degree of the moon at the first quarter, last quarter, and next moon conjunct lunar hour.
Find the degree of the twilight of the sun and moon: Use the Ji method to calculate the twilight of the sun, and use the lunar cycle to calculate the twilight of the moon. Multiply by the night time of the closest solar term, divide by two hundred, and the results are the clear points of the sun and the moon respectively.
Subtracting the sun's twilight points by the discipline method is the twilight point, and subtracting the moon's twilight points by the month's week is the moon's twilight point.
Add the half-minute of night respectively, divide it by the discipline method or the month and week, and turn it into degrees.
Push lunar eclipse:
Subtract one from the number of accumulated years in the highest yuan of the year you want, divide it by eight hundred and ninety-three years, multiply the remaining number by the rate of one thousand eight hundred and eighty-two, and then divide it by eight hundred and ninety-three years. The resulting quotient is the accumulated loss. If there is a remainder, add one to the accumulated loss.
Multiply the accumulated eclipse by the meeting rate of 11,045 months, and divide it by the meeting rate of 1,882. The obtained business calculation is the accumulated month, and the remainder is the remaining month.
Multiply the leap seven by the remaining years and divide it by the nineteen years of the chapter. The obtained quotient is the accumulated leap years. Subtract it by the accumulated months. Divide the difference by the twelve years of the year. Remove the business and leave the remainder. Count from the eleventh month of Tianzheng.
Looking for the next eclipse: On the basis of the last lunar eclipse, add five to the monthly eclipse, and add one thousand, six hundred and thirty-five to the remaining lunar eclipse. If the remaining lunar month is above the meeting rate, it will transform into the moon, and there will be a lunar eclipse.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
推卦用事日
因冬至大余，倍其小余，坎用事日也。加小余千七十五，满乾法从大余，中孚用事日也。
求次卦，各加大余六，小余百三。
其四正各因共中日，而倍其小余。推五行用事
置冬至大小余，加大余二十七，小余九百二十七，满二千三百五十六从大余，得土用事日也。
加大余十八，小余六百一十八，得立春木用事日。
加大余七十三，小余百一十六，复得土。
又加土如得其火，金、水放此。推加时
以十二乘小余，满其法得一辰，数从子起，算外，朔、弦、望以定小余。
推漏刻
以百乘小余，满其法得一刻，不尽什之，求分，课所近节气，起夜分尽；夜上水未尽，以所近言之。
推有进退，进加退减所得也。
进退有差，起二分度后，率四度转增少，少每半者，三而转之，差满三止，历五度而减如初。
月行三道术
月行迟疾，周进有恆。
会数从天地凡数，乘余率自乘，如会数而一，为过周分。
以从周天，月周除之，历日数也。
迟疾有衰，其变者势也。
以衰减加月行率，为日转度分。
衰左右相加，为损益率。
益转相益，损转相损，盈缩积也。
三分四进减益四缩六十七二百五十二十二日十三度
translation: 
The day to use the hexagram:
Following the winter solstice Dayu, Xiaoyu doubles, and the determined time is used as the Kanfu day, and the remaining day is 1,075. If Xiaoyu is above 1,178 Qianfa and turns into Dayu, the determined time is the Zhongfu day.
Ask for the second hexagram: Each will add six major remainders and one hundred and three minor remainders.
Each of the four positives is due to its day, and the small remainder is doubled. Recommend the use of five elements:
Set the winter solstice Dayu, the small Yi multiplied by four, the Dayu; seventeen. The minor remainder is added to nine hundred and twenty-seven. If the minor remainder is greater than or equal to two thousand three hundred and fifty-six, subtract the remainder and add one to the greater remainder, and the result is used by Saturn.
The big one plus eighteen, the small one plus six hundred and eighteen, the result is the day used by Jupiter in the beginning of spring.
The larger one is seventy-three, the smaller one is one hundred and sixteen, and Saturn is used.
Furthermore, on the basis of Saturn's service day, we get Mars' service day. The calculation of Venus and Mercury's service days follows the above method. Overtime:
Multiply twelve times the small remainder, divide the product by the law, and the resulting quotient is Chenfu. Counting from Zi Shi, except for calculations, Shuo, Xian, and Wang Shi are calculated with the small remainder.
Push the leakage moment:
Multiply one hundred times the small remainder and divide it by the law, and the resulting quotient is the number of quarters. If there is a remainder, multiply it by ten and divide it by the daily law. The result is divided into points. Examine the nearby solar terms. If the night points are exhausted; if the upper water is not exhausted, use the nearest points.
Pushing has advancement and retreat, which is the result of advancement, addition and retreat.
There is a difference between advance and retreat. From the second degree onwards, it always increases or decreases in the fourth degree. For every half degree, it turns to the third degree. The difference stops after three degrees. After the fifth degree, it decreases as before.
Three Ways of Moon Movement:
The moon's movement may be faster or slower, but the degree it encounters during each week is constant.
The calculation of forty-seven plus the sum of heaven and earth is fifty-five, multiplied by the square of the remaining rate of twenty-nine, divided by the calculation of forty-seven, the result is the excess of weeks.
Add the number of weeks and days, 215,130, and divide it by the number of days in the month, 7,874, to get the calendar number of the month and one week.
The rate of change of the moon's movement itself will also change, which is the potential for change.
Add parallel minutes to the attenuation of the moon per revolution, and the result is degree minutes per revolution of the moon.
Add up the left and right, and the result is the profit and loss ratio.
If the profit and loss ratio is a gain, the profit and loss product will increase; if the profit and loss ratio is a loss, the profit and loss product will decrease.
The half of Xiao Zhou, one hundred and twenty-seven, is multiplied by Tongfa's forty-three thousand and twenty-six, divided by Tong's thirty-one, and subtracted from the calendar week's sixty-four thousand, four hundred and sixty-six, and the result is Shuo Xingfen.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
七分四进加损缩七十一二百五十四二十三日十三度十一分四进加损四缩七十一二百五十八二十四日十三度十五分四进加损八缩六十七二百六十二二十五日十四度四进加损十二缩五十九二百六十六二十六日十四度
四分三进加损十六缩四十七二百七十二十七日十四度七分三历初进加损十九缩三十一二百七十三三大周日周日十四度九分少进加损二十一缩十二二百七十五周日分，三千三百三。
周虚，二千六百六十六。
周日法，五千九百六十九。
通周，十八万五千三十九。
历周，十六万四千四百六十六。
少大法，一千一百一。
朔行大分，万一千八百一。
小分，二十五。
周半，一百二十七。
推合朔入历
以上元积月乘朔行大小分，小分满通数三十一从大分，大分满历周去之，余满周法得一日，不尽为日余。
日余命算外，所求合朔入历也。
求次月，加一日，日余五千八百三十二，小分二十五。
求弦望，各加七日，日余二千二百八十三，小分二十九半，分各如法成日，日满二十七日去之。
余如周分。不足除，减一日，加周虚。
求弦望定大小余
translation: 
Profit and loss ratio profit twenty-two profit twenty-one profit nineteen profit sixteen profit twelve profit eight profit four loss four loss eight profit shrinking profit initial profit twenty-two profit sixty-two profit seventy-eight profit ninety eight profit one hundred two profit one hundred two profit ninety-eight monthly line points two hundred and seventy-six two hundred and seventy-five two One hundred and seventy-three, two hundred and seventy-two, one hundred and sixty-six, two hundred and sixty-two, two hundred and fifty-eight, two hundred and fifty-four, two hundred and fifty-two, one hundred and forty-six, loss of eleven, loss of fifteen, loss of fifteen, loss of eighteen, loss of twenty, loss of twenty-one, loss of twenty, which is insufficient but reduced by five, which is profit. A surplus of five is called a profit and a loss of twenty, so it is insufficient.
Gain 18 Gain 15 Gain 11 Gain 4 Loss 4 Loss 8 Loss 12 Lose 16 Big Sunday loss 19 Loss 21 Profit 90 Profit 79 Profit 64 Profit 46 Profit 26 Profit 5 shrink 15 shrink 23 shrink 48 shrink 59 shrink 67 shrink 71 shrink 71 shrink 67 shrink 59 shrink 47 shrink 31 Shrink twelve two hundred and forty-three, two hundred and thirty-nine, two hundred and thirty-six, two hundred and thirty-four, two hundred and thirty-three, two hundred and thirty-four, two hundred and thirty-six, two hundred and thirty-nine, two hundred and forty-three, two hundred and forty-six, two hundred and fifty-two hundred and fifty-four, two hundred and fifty-eight, two hundred and sixty-two, two hundred and sixty-six, two hundred and seventy-two hundred and seventy-three, two hundred and seventy-five weeks: three thousand three hundred and three.
Zhou Xu: Two thousand six hundred and sixty-six.
Sunday Law: Five thousand nine hundred and sixty-nine.
Tongzhou: one hundred and eighty-five thousand and thirty-nine.
Calendar week: one hundred and sixty-four thousand four hundred and sixty-six.
Shaodafa: one thousand one hundred and one.
Shoxing Oita: eleven thousand eight hundred and one.
Score: twenty-five.
Week and a half: one hundred and twenty-seven.
Push He Shuo into the calendar:
The accumulated number of years and months in the above Yuanzhi is multiplied by the major and minor divisions of the new moon, and the product is the new major and minor divisions. The minor division is above the general number thirty-one, and is converted into the grand division. The part of the grand division that is greater than the calendar week is removed, and the remaining part that is less than the calendar week is divided by the day of the week method.
The obtained quotient is the number of days that the new moon comes into the calendar, and the remainder is the remainder. If the remaining life is the day that is not included in the calculation, what is obtained is the time when the new moon comes into the calendar.
Find the next month: Add one day to the last month's first day in the calendar. It is said that I added five thousand eight hundred and thirty-two, which is fifteen points.
To find the string and look at the time into the calendar, add seven days to the last time, add two thousand two hundred and eighty-three days to the remaining day, and divide the decimal point and the remaining day by the corresponding denominator to turn it into days. If the number of days is greater than twenty-seven, subtract it.
Subtract 3,303 Sunday minutes from the day surplus. If the day surplus is less than the Sunday minute, subtract one from the number of days in the calendar, and the day surplus plus the week vacancy are 2,666.
Find the magnitude and magnitude of the string:


Chunk 10: 
original: 
置所入历盈缩积，以通周乘之为实。
令通数乘日余分，以乘损益率，以损益实，为加时盈缩也。
章岁减月行分，乘周半为差法，以除之，所得盈减缩加大小余，如日法盈不足，朔加时在前后日。
弦望进退大余，为定小余。求朔弦望加时定度
以章岁乘加时盈缩，差法除之，所得满会数为盈缩大小分，以盈减缩加本日月所在，盈不足，以纪法进退度，为日月所在定度分。
推月行夜半入历
以周半乘朔小余，如通数而一，以减入历日余。余不足，加周法而减焉，却一日。
却得周日加其分，即得夜半入历。
求次日，转一日，因日余到二十七日，日余满周日分去之，不直周日也。
其不满直之，加周虚于余，余皆次日入历日余也。
求月夜半定度
以夜半入历日余，乘损益率，如周法得一，不尽为余，以损益缩积，余无所损，破全为法损之，为夜半盈缩也。
满章岁为度，不尽为分。通数乘分及余，余如周法从分，分满纪法从度，以盈加缩减本夜半度及余，为定度。
求变衰法
以入历日余乘列衰，如周法得一，不尽为余，即谷知其日变衰也。
求次历
以周虚乘列衰，如周法为常数，历竟，辄以加变衰，满列衰去之，转为次历变衰也。
求次日夜半定度
以变衰进加退减历日转分，分盈不足，章岁出入度也。
通数乘分及余，而日转加夜定度，为次日也。
竟历不直周日，减余三十八，乃以通数乘之，直周日者加余八百三十七，又以少大分八百九十九，加次历变衰，转求如前。
求次日夜半盈缩
以变衰减加损益率，为变损益率，而以转损益夜半盈缩。
历竟损不足，反减为入次历，减加余如上数。
求昏明月度
以历月行分乘所近节气夜漏，二百而一为明分。
translation: 
The product of profit and contraction corresponding to the calendar when setting the string and looking at it, multiplied by the total week of 185,039, is the actual result.
Multiply the remainder by the general number thirty-one, and then multiply the product by the profit and loss rate of the corresponding days to increase or decrease the actual , and the result is the overtime profit or loss.
Subtract the month and minute from the chapter year and nineteen and multiply it by one hundred and twenty-seven.
When you bend the string and look at the larger or smaller remainder, you can add or subtract the flat string and look at the larger remainder to determine the difference. Find the additional time of Shuoxianwang:
Multiply the plus-time profit and shrinkage by Zhang Year Nineteen, divide by the difference method, and then divide the obtained quotient by Huifu forty-seven to get the big and small points of the profit and shrinkage. Use the surplus subtraction to add the pingshuo, xian, wangshiday, and moon points. If the major and minor points where the zishuo, xian, wangshiday, and moon are smaller than the surplus major and minor points, then reduce the degree, use the discipline method as the denominator to convert it into a minute, and then subtract the surplus points. The result is the fixed degree point where the sun and moon are.
Pushing the moon into the calendar at midnight:
Multiply the half-week number one hundred and twenty-seven by the luo xiaoyu, divide it by the total number 31, and subtract the lunar day number by adding the luo number into the calendar day. If the day number is not enough to subtract, add the number 5969 and then subtract one day from the number of days in the calendar.
Subtract the number of calendar days after one day and the score obtained after subtracting the previous one to get the number of days when the moon enters the calendar at midnight.
To find the next day's moon phase in the calendar at midnight: Add one day to the number of days in the calendar on the previous day, so there are seventeen days left. If the remaining day is more than a Sunday minute, subtract it until the difference is less than a Sunday minute.
If the day's surplus is less than the week's minute, add the week's surplus to the surplus, and the result is the calendar surplus for the next day.
Find the half-degree of the moon and night:
Enter midnight into the calendar day surplus, multiply it by the profit and loss rate, divide it by the weekly method of 5,969, and the remainder is the remainder. Add or subtract the obtained quotient into the profit and contraction product corresponding to the calendar day. If there is no corresponding amount to subtract from the remainder, take one from the profit and contraction product and multiply it by the weekly method of 5,969, and then subtract it. The final result is the midnight profit and contraction.
Divide the desired midnight profit and contraction by chapter nineteen, the obtained quotient is the degree of profit and contraction, and the remainder is the profit and contraction fraction. Multiply the above by the general number thirty-one to obtain the profit and contraction fraction and surplus and contraction number. The product of the general sum and the surplus and contraction number is divided by the weekly method five thousand and nine. One hundred and sixty-nine, the result is added to the product of the general number and the profit and contraction fraction. If the sum is greater than or equal to Jifa 589, then subtract it and add one to the profit and contraction degree. Finally, the profit and contraction corrected degree points are obtained. The surplus and contraction are divided into flat degrees at midnight on the day of the surplus and contraction. That is the definite score.
Find the decay method:
Multiply the number of days in the calendar day by the number of days and days, and divide it by the number of 5,969 in the Zhou Dynasty. The remainder that cannot be divided is the remainder, and you can know the decay of each day.
Find the calendar:
Multiply the two thousand six hundred and sixty six weeks of the week by the column decay, and divide it by the five thousand nine hundred and sixty nine of the week to get a constant. After a calendar week, the constant is added to the decay. If the sum is greater than the column decay, it is subtracted, and the rest is converted into sub-calendar decay.
Find the fixed time at midnight the next day:
Use decay to advance or subtract the diurnal minutes of the corresponding calendar. If the diurnal minutes are not enough to subtract, use the nineteenth chapter as the denominator, take one degree from the turn and convert it into points, and then subtract it.
Multiply the number thirty-one by the minute and the remainder, and add the diurnal degree to the midnight fixed degree of the previous day to get the fixed degree of midnight of the next day.
The calendar does not have a straight Sunday, so the remaining one thousand and thirty-eight are subtracted, and multiplied by Tongfu; when the straight Sunday is added, the remainder is eight hundred and thirty-seven, and the remainder is divided into eight hundred and ninety-nine.
Find the profit and contraction at midnight the next day:
By changing the attenuation or adding the profit and loss rate, the result is the variable profit and loss rate, which can be added or subtracted by half the profit or loss.
The calendar was not reduced enough, but it was reduced to the next calendar, and the remainder after subtraction and addition is the same as above.
Looking for the dimming month:
Multiply the row points of the calendar month by the night leakage of the solar terms close to it, and divide it by two hundred to get the clear points.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
以减月行分为昏分。
分如章岁为度，以通数乘分，以加夜半定度，为昏明定度。
余分半法以上成，不满废之。
求月行迟疾
月经四表，出入三道，交错分天，以月率除之，为历之日。
周天乘朔望合，如会月而一，朔合分也。
通数乘合数，余如会数而一，退分也。
以从月周，为日进分。
十三日限余三千九百一十二，微分一千七百五十二。
此为后限一加历初大，分日。损十六二十七分日五千二百而三少加少者损十六大十一少大法，四百七十三。
历周，十万七千五百六十五。
差率，万一千九百八十六。
朔合分，万八千三百二十八。
微分，九百一十四。
微分法，二千二百九。
推朔入阴阳历
以会月去上元积月，余以朔合分及微分各乘之，微分满其法从合分，合分满周天去之，其余不满历周者，为入阳历；满去之，余为入阴历。
余皆如月周得一日，算外，所求月合朔入历，不尽为日余。
求次月加二日，日余二千五百八十，微分九百一十四，如法成日，满十三去之，除余如分日。
阴阳历竟互入端，入历在前限余前，后限余后者月行中道也。
求朔望定数
各置入迟疾历盈缩大小分，会数乘小分为微分，盈减缩加阴阳日余，日余盈不足，进退日而定。
translation: 
Subtract the light part from the moon part, and the result is the coma part.
Divide the Mingfen or Dusk points by Zhangsui 19, and the result is the degree. Multiply the Tongfu times the points, and add the Midnight Ding degree to get the Twilight Ding degree.
The remainder above half a dharma is converted into one, and the remainder below half a dharma is discarded.
Asking for delayed moon movement:
The moon moves in all directions, enters and exits in three directions, staggers and divides the sky. The number of days in the synodic month is divided into 7,874 days in the month.
The number of days of the week is 215,130 multiplied by the sum of the lunar calendar and the sum of 941, divided by the number of the lunar month of 11,045, and the result is the sum of the lunar calendar and the sum of 941.
Multiply the general number thirty-one by the sum and divide it by the general number forty-seven, and the result is the rebate.
Add this to 7,874 monthly weeks, and the result is monthly progress points.
If the second loss is over the barrel, it means that the moon has traveled half a week and has passed the Yang, so it should be lost.
Loss of six, loss of ten, loss of thirteen, loss of fifteen, loss of sixteen, loss of sixteen and the seventeenth day of the lunar month = mountain = forty-eight, sixty-six, eighty-seven, seventy-two, seventy-three, seventy-one, sixty-five, fifty-five, forty-two, twenty-seven, Shao Dafa: four hundred and seventy-three.
Calendar week: one hundred and seventy-seven thousand five hundred and sixty-five.
Discount: eleven thousand nine hundred and eighty six.
Shuo combined points: eighteen thousand three hundred and twenty-eight.
Differential: nine hundred and fourteen.
Differential Calculus: Two Thousand Two Hundred and Nine.
Pushed into the lunisolar calendar:
Subtract the lunar month from the above accumulated month, and the remaining part less than the lunar month is multiplied by the lunar conjunction and differential. If the resulting differential is greater than the differential method, it is converted into the lunar conjunction. If the lunar conjunction is greater than the zodiac, it is subtracted. If the remainder is less than the calendar week, it is the solar calendar lunar conjunction; if it is greater than the calendar week, subtract it, and the remainder is the lunar calendar lunar conjunction.
Divide the above-mentioned lunar and solar lunar new moon conjunction points by the month and week, and calculate the obtained quotient to calculate the required lunar and solar lunar new moon conjunction points, and the remainder is the remainder.
Find the next month: On the basis of the last month's conjunction and the new moon in the lunisolar calendar, the remainder is one thousand five hundred and eighty, and the differential is added to the differential of nine hundred and fourteen. The resulting daily remainder and differential are subtracted if it is greater than thirteen, and the remainder is subtracted by five thousand two hundred and three.
When the lunar calendar ends, it enters the solar calendar, and when the solar calendar ends, it enters the lunar calendar. If the calendar is in the front, then the rest will be in front, and if it is in the back, then the rest will be in the back. This is the reason why the moon moves in the middle.
Find the synodic definite number:
Each column enters the excess, reduced major and minor points of the late illness calendar. The sum multiplied by the minor fraction is the differential. The surplus, subtracted and reduced is added to the lunisolar calendar surplus. If the daily surplus is insufficient to reduce the surplus, subtract it from the entered calendar day, and the result is the fixed daily surplus.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
以定日余乘损益率，如月周得一，以损益兼数，为加时定数。
推夜半入历
以差率乘朔小余，如微分法得一，以减入历日余，不足，加月周而减之，却一日。
却得分日加其分，以会数约微分为小分，即朔日夜半入历。
求次日，加一日，日余三十一，小分三十一，小分如会数从余，余满月周去之，又加一日，历竟下，日余满分日去之，为入历初也。
不满分日者直之，加余二千七百二，小分三十一，为入次历。
求夜半定日
以通数乘入迟疾历夜半盈缩及余，余满周半为小分，以盈加缩减入阴阳日余，日余盈不足，以月周进退日而定也。
以定日余乘损益率，如月周得一，以损益兼数，为夜半定数也。
求昏明数
以损益率乘所近节气夜漏，二百而一为明，以减损益率为昏，而以损益夜半数为昏明定数。
求月去极度
置加时若昏明定数，以十二除之为度，其余三而一为少，不尽一为强，二少弱也，所得为月去黄道度也。
其阳历以加日所在黄道历去极度，阴历以减之，则月去极度。
强正弱负，强弱相并，同名相从，异名相消。
其相减也，同名相消，异名相从，无对互之，二强进少而弱。
上元己丑以来，至建安十一年丙戌，岁积七千三百七十八。
己丑戊寅丁卯丙辰乙巳甲午癸未
壬申辛酉庚戌己亥戊子丁丑丙寅
推五星
五行：木，岁星；火，荧惑；土，填星；金，太白；水，辰星。
各以终日与天度相约，为周率、日率。
章岁乘周，为月法。
章月乘日，为月分。
分如法，为月数。
translation: 
Multiply the fixed day surplus by the profit and loss rate corresponding to the calendar day, and divide it by the month and week. The result is subtracted or added to the combined payment, which is the additional time fixed payment.
Push midnight into the calendar:
Multiply the difference by Shuo Xiaoyu, divide it by the differential method, and subtract it from the remainder by entering the calendar. If it is not enough, add the month and week and then subtract it, and subtract one day from the calendar.
If the subtracted one happens to be a minute day, then add its points and divide the differential by the total number as a small minute, that is, the midnight of the first day of the new moon is entered into the calendar.
To find the next calendar day: Add one day to the previous calendar day, and the remainder is thirty-one, and the fraction is thirty-one. Divide the fraction by the sum, and add the remainder. If the remainder is greater than the month and week, subtract it, and add one more. If the calendar day is more than thirteen yin and yang days, subtract it, and the remainder is more than the cent, subtract it, and the result is the beginning of the calendar.
If the remaining day is less than the minute day, straighten it, add the remainder of 2702, and the small minute is 31, and the result is the entry calendar.
Asking for midnight:
Multiply the through number by the half of the night in the Chiji Calendar, and the surplus will be converted into small points, and the surplus will be added or reduced to the lunisolar surplus. If the surplus is not enough, the surplus will be subtracted. If the surplus is insufficient, subtract one from the lunisolar calendar number, and the day surplus will be added to the month and week and then subtracted.
Multiply the fixed daily surplus by the profit and loss rate, and divide it by the number of months and weeks. The resulting quotient is subtracted or added by the number, which is the fixed deposit at midnight.
Find the dimming number:
Multiply the profit and loss rate by the night leakage of the nearest solar term, and divide it by two hundred, and the result is Ming. Subtract the profit and loss rate, and the result is Hun. Add or subtract the midnight application to the Hunming number obtained by the above method to get the fixed number at midnight.
Asking the moon to go to the extreme:
Turn the extra time into the form of dim light and fixed application, divide it by twelve as the degree, the remainder is three, the remainder is less, the remainder is one, the remainder is strong, the remainder is two, the remainder is weak, the result is the moon to ecliptic degree.
If the month is in the solar calendar, add the ecliptic extreme. If the month is in the lunar calendar, subtract it, and the result is the ecliptic extreme.
Strong positive and weak negative, strong and weak are combined. If the sign is the same, it is added, if the sign is different, the sign is reduced.
When two numbers are subtracted, if they have the same sign, they will decrease; if they have different signs, they will increase. If there is no pairing between two numbers, then the two numbers are strong and weak.
Ding Chou
Guiwei
Bingyin
Recommend five stars:
Five elements: wood, the year star; fire, the star of the year; earth, the calm star; gold, the white star; water, the star.
The number of last days of each planet is similar to the celestial degree of 215,130/589, and the denominator and numerator are the weekly rate and daily rate respectively.
The year and nineteen of the chapter are multiplied by the weekly rate, and the result is the monthly formula.
Chapter month two hundred and thirty-five multiplied by the daily rate, the result is monthly cents.
Divide the monthly points by the combined monthly method, and the quotient obtained is the number of months.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
通数乘月法，日度法也。
斗分乘周率，为斗分。
日度法用纪法乘周率，故此同以分乘之。
五星朔大余、小余。
以通法各乘月数，日法各除之，为大余，不尽为小余。
减多为度余分，以周天乘之，以日度法约之，所得为度，不尽为度余，过周天去之及斗分。纪月，七千二百八十五。章闰，七。
章月，二百三十五。
岁中，十二。
通法，四万三千二十六。
日法，千四百五十七。
会数，四十七。
周天，二十一万五千一百三十。
斗分，一百四十五。
木：周率，六千七百二十二。
日率，七千三百四十一。
合月数，十三。
月余，六万四千八百一。
合月法，十二万七千七百一十八。
日度法，三百九十五万九千二百五十八。
朔大余，二十三。
朔小余，一千三百七。
入月日，十五。
日余，三百四十八万四千六百四十六。
朔虚分，一百五十。
斗分，九十七万四千六百九十。
度数，三十三。
度余，二百五十万九千九百五十六。
火：周率，三千四百七。
日率，七千二百七十一。
合月数，二十六。
月余，二万五千六百二十七。
合月法，六万四千七百三十三。
日度法，二百万六千七百二十三。
朔大余，四十七。
朔小余，一千一百五十七。
入月日，十二。
日余，九十七万三千一十三。
朔虚分，三百。
斗分，四十九万四千一十五。
度数，四十八。
度余，一百九十九万一千七百六。
土：周度，三千五百二十九。
日率，三千六百五十三。
合月数，十二。
月余，五万三千八百四十三。
合月法，六万七千五十一。
日度法，二百七万八千五百八十一。
朔大余，五十四。
朔小余，五百三十四。
入月日，二十四。
日余，十六万六千二百七十二。
朔虚分，九百二十三。
斗分，五十一万一千七百五。
度数，十二。
度余，一百七十三万三千一百四十八。
金：周率，九千二十二。
日率，七千二百一十三。
合月数，九。
月余，十五万二千二百九十三。
合月法，十七万一千四百一十八。
日度法，五百三十一万三千九百五十八。
朔大余，二十五。
朔小余，一千一百二十九。
入月日，二十七。
日余，五万六千九百五十四。
朔虚分，三百二十八。
斗分，一百三十万八千一百九十。
度数，二百九十二。
度余，五万六千九百五十四。
水：周率，一万一千五百六十一。
日率，一千八百三十四。
合月数，一。
月余，二十一万一千三百三十一。
合月法，二十一万九千六百五十九。
日度法，六百八十万九千四百二十九。
朔大余，二十九。
朔小余，七百七十三。
入月日，二十八。
日余，六百四十一万九百六十七。
朔虚分，六百八十四。
斗分，一百六十七万六千三百四十五。
度数，五十七。
度余，六百四十一万九百六十七。
推五星
translation: 
The general number thirty-one is multiplied by the combined moon method, and the result is the day method.
One hundred and forty-five dou points are multiplied by the weekly rate, and the result is dou points.
The degree method is equal to the discipline method five hundred and eighty-nine multiplied by the weekly rate, so it is multiplied by points.
Calculation methods for the major and minor elements of each of the five major planets.
Multiply the 43,026 Tongfa by the respective moons of the planets. Divided by one thousand four hundred and fifty-seven, the resulting business is a large remainder, and the remainder is a small remainder.
Subtract the weekly rate from the respective rate, multiply it by the 215,130 days of the week, and divide it by the respective daily method. The resulting quotient is the degree, and the remainder is the degree remainder. If it is greater than the 215,130/589 days of the week. Then subtract it, and the final result is the degree of the star and the remainder. Jiyue: seven thousand two hundred and eighty-five. Zhang Run: Seven.
Zhang Yue: Two hundred and thirty-five.
Middle age: twelve.
Tongfa: Forty-three thousand and twenty-six.
Japanese and French: one thousand four hundred and fifty-seven.
Number of sessions: forty-seven.
Zhou Tian: Two hundred and fifteen thousand one hundred and thirty.
Fight points: one hundred and forty-five.
Jupiter: Weekly rate: six thousand seven hundred and twenty-two.
Daily rate: seven thousand three hundred and forty-one.
Combined month number: thirteen.
More than a month: sixty-four thousand eight hundred and one.
Conjunction of the moon: one hundred and twenty-seven thousand seven hundred and eighteen.
Said method: three hundred nine hundred and fifty-nine thousand two hundred and fifty-eight.
Shuo Dayu: Twenty-three.
Shuo Xiaoyu: One thousand three hundred and seven.
Moon day: fifteen.
Riyu: 3,484,646.
Shuo Xufen: one hundred and fifty.
Score: nine hundred and seventy-four thousand six hundred and ninety.
Degree: thirty-three.
Duyu: Two million five hundred and ninety-nine hundred and fifty-six.
Mars: Weekly rate: three thousand four hundred and seven.
Daily rate: seven thousand two hundred and seventy-one.
Combined month number: twenty-six.
More than a month: twenty-five thousand six hundred and twenty-seven.
Conjunct moon method: sixty-four thousand seven hundred and thirty-three.
Day method: two million six thousand seven hundred and twenty-three.
Shuo Dayu: Forty-seven.
Shuo Xiaoyu: One thousand one hundred and fifty-seven.
When the moon enters, it says: Twelve.
Yu said: Nine hundred and seventy-three thousand and thirteen.
Shuoxu points: three hundred.
Douban: four hundred and ninety-four thousand and fifteen.
Degree: forty-eight.
Duyu: One hundred ninety-nine thousand one thousand seven hundred and six.
Saturn: Weekly rate: three thousand five hundred and twenty-nine.
Daily rate: three thousand six hundred and fifty-three.
Combined month number: twelve.
Months remaining: fifty-three thousand eight hundred and forty-three.
Conjunct moon method: sixty-seven thousand and fifty-one.
Day method: two hundred and seventy-eight thousand five hundred and eighty-one.
Shuo Dayu: Fifty-four.
Shuo Xiaoyu: Five hundred and thirty-four.
Entering the moon says: twenty-four.
Yu said: one hundred sixty-six thousand two hundred and seventy-two.
Shuoxu points: nine hundred and twenty-three.
Score: five hundred and eleven thousand seven hundred and five.
Degree: twelve.
Duyu: One hundred and seventy-three thousand and one hundred and forty-eight.
Venus: Weekly rate: nine thousand and twenty-two.
Daily rate: seven thousand two hundred and thirteen.
Combined month number: nine.
More than a month: one hundred and fifty-two thousand, two hundred and ninety-three.
Conjunct moon method: one hundred seventy-one thousand four hundred and eighteen.
Day method: five hundred and thirty-one thousand nine hundred and fifty-eight.
Shuo Dayu: Twenty-five.
Shuo Xiaoyu: One thousand one hundred and twenty-nine.
Moon day: twenty-seven.
Riyu: fifty-six thousand nine hundred and fifty-four.
Shuoxu points: three hundred and twenty-eight.
Score: 1,388,190.
Degree: two hundred and ninety-two.
Du Yu: Fifty-six thousand nine hundred and fifty-four.
Mercury: Weekly rate: eleven thousand five hundred and sixty-one.
Daily rate: one thousand eight hundred and thirty-four.
Total number of months: one.
More than a month: two hundred and one thousand three hundred and thirty-one.
Conjunct moon method: two hundred and nineteen thousand six hundred and fifty-nine.
Day method: six hundred and eighty nine thousand four hundred and twenty-nine.
Shuo Dayu: Twenty-nine.
Shuo Xiaoyu: Seven hundred and seventy-three.
Entering the moon: twenty-eight.
Yu: Six hundred and four hundred and one hundred and nine hundred and sixty-seven.
Shuoxu points: six hundred and eighty-four.
Score: one million six hundred and seventy-six thousand three hundred and forty-five.
Degree: fifty-seven.
Duyu: six hundred, four hundred and one thousand, nine hundred and sixty-seven.
Recommend five stars:


Chunk 14: 
original: 
置上元尽所求年，以周率乘之，满日率得一，名积合，不尽为合余。
以周率除之，得一，星合往年。
二，合前往年。
无所得，合其年。
合余减周率为度分。
金、水积合，奇为晨，耦为夕。
推星合月
以月数、月余各乘积合，满合月法从月，不尽为月余。以纪月去积月，余为入纪月。
副以章闰乘之，满章月得一闰，以减入纪月，余以岁中去之，命以天正算外，合月也。
其在闰交际，以朔御之。
推入月日
以通法乘月余，合月法乘朔小余，并以会数约之，所得满日度法得一，则星合入月日也。
求后合月
以月数加月数，以月余加月余，满合月法得一月，不满岁中，即合其年，满去之，有闰计焉，余为后年；再满，在后二年。
金、水加晨得夕，加夕得晨。求后合朔日
以朔大小余，加合月大小余，上成月者，又加大余二十九，小余七百七十三，小余满日法从大余，命如前。
求后入月日术
以入月日、日余，加合入月日及余，余满日度法得一日，其前合朔小余满其虚分者，减一日后小余满七百七十三以上者，去二十九日，不满，去三十日，其余则后合，入月日也。
translation: 
Set the upper yuan to the number of years you want, multiply it by the weekly rate, and divide it by the daily rate. The resulting quotient is named the sum, and the remainder is named the sum.
Divide the sum by the periodic rate, and if the resulting quotient is one, then the star was in conjunction with the Sun in the previous year.
If the resulting quotient is two, then the star was in conjunction with the Sun two years ago.
If there is no quotient, the star will be conjunct the sun that year.
Subtract the remainder from the weekly rate, and the result is the degree cent.
When the sum of Venus and Mercury is an odd number, it will meet the sun in the morning, and when the sum is an even number, it will join the sun in the evening.
Pushing the star to the moon:
Multiply the number of months and the monthly balance by the accumulated sum to get the accumulated month and the new monthly balance. If the new monthly balance is greater than or equal to the combined month, subtract it, and add one to the accumulated month, and the difference is the final monthly balance.
Subtract the integer multiple of the chronological month from the accumulated lunar month, and the remaining part that is less than the chronological month is the chronological month. Multiply zhang leap times by the lunar month, and the product of the full zhang month is one leap. Subtract all leap numbers from the lunar month, and subtract the difference from an integer multiple of twelve in the year. The remaining part that is less than twelve in the year is calculated from the eleventh month of Tianzheng. If not calculated, it is the month in which the planets are converging.
In leap months, it is determined by the new day.
Push the day of the month:
The general method is used to multiply the respective lunar remainders of the planets, and the conjunctive method is multiplied by the lunar eclipse. The two are combined and coincide with the meeting number forty-seven. The result is divided by the day method. The quotient is the day when the moon enters the moon, and the remainder is the day remainder.
Looking for the posterior conjunction moon:
Add the number of combined months to the monthly balance at the time of the last conjunction, the remainder of the combined month plus the remainder of the month at the time of the last conjunction, divide the sum of the remainder of the months by the rule of the full combined month, add the quotient to the number of months, and the remainder is the remainder of the month, and the result is the number of months and months at the time of this conjunction. If the monthly payment is less than twelve years old, it will be combined in the current year. If the monthly payment is more than twelve years old, it will be reduced. If there is a leap month, it will also be reduced. If the remaining months are less than twelve, they will be combined in the next year; if the remaining months are still twelve years old, they will be combined in the next year.
After one more conjunction, Venus and Mercury change from morning conjunction to evening conjunction, and evening conjunction to morning conjunction. Seek the following day:
Taking Shuo Dayu and Shuo Xiaoyu, plus the next combined month Dayu and Xiaoyu, when this number is one month, add Dayu twenty-nine, Xiaoyu seven hundred and seventy-three, Xiaoyu is full of one thousand four hundred and fifty-seven parts, and becomes Dayu. The naming method for the rest is as before.
Seeking the technique of entering the moon after the queen:
Take the day of the moon and the remainder of the day, plus the day of the month and the remainder of the day at the next conjunction, and the remainder of the day will be converted into a day. If the remainder of the day and the remainder of the last conjunction are full and empty, then one day will be subtracted. If the combined minor remainder is greater than 773, subtract twenty-nine days; if it is less than 773, subtract thirty days, and the remainder will be the day of the lunar month at the time of this conjunction.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
求后度
以度加度，度余加度余，满日度法得一度。
木：伏三十二日。
三百四十八万四千六百四十六分。
见三百六十六日。
伏行五度。二百五十万九千九百五十六分。
见行四十度。
除逆退十二度，定行二十八度。
火：伏百四十三日。九十七万三千一十三分。
见六百三十六日。
伏行一百一十度。四十七万八千九百九十八分。
见行三百二十度。
除逆十七度，定行三百三度。
土：伏三十三日。十六万六千二百七十二分。
见三百四十五日。
伏行三度。一百七十三万三千一百四十八分。
见行十五度。
除逆六度，定行九度。
金：晨伏东方八十二日。十一万三千九百八分。
见西方。
二百四十六日。
除逆六度，定行二百四十六度。
晨伏行百度。十一万三千九百八分。
见东方。
日度加西。伏十日，退八度。
水：晨伏三十三日。六百一万二千五百五分。
见西方。
三十二日。
除逆一度，定行三十二度。
伏行六十五度。六百一万二千五百五分。
见东方。
日度如西，伏十八日，退十四度
五星历步术
留者承前，递则减之，伏不尽度，经斗除分，以行母为率，分有损益，前后相御。
translation: 
Find the degree:
Add the degree to the degree of the last conjunction, add the degree of the remainder to the degree of the last conjunction, and convert the remainder into a degree when the degree is full.
The result is the celestial degree of the planet at the time of this conjunction.
Jupiter: 32 days and 3,484,646 minutes.
See three hundred and sixty-six.
The five degrees of Fu are 2,599,956 minutes.
When he saw it, he walked forty degrees.
Excluding the twelve degrees of retrograde movement, the actual movement is twenty-eight degrees.
Mars: One hundred and forty-three days, nine hundred and seventy-three thousand and thirteen.
See six hundred and thirty-six days.
When Fu is moving forward, it goes one hundred and ten degrees, four hundred and seventy-eight thousand stems, and nine hundred and ninety-eight minutes.
When you see it, it goes straight three hundred and twenty degrees.
Excluding the seventeen degrees of retrograde movement, the actual movement is three hundred and three degrees.
Saturn: On the thirty-third day of the lunar month, one hundred sixty-six thousand two hundred and seventy-two minutes.
See three hundred and forty-five days.
Three degrees of direct movement during the Fu hour are one hundred, seven hundred and thirty-three thousand one hundred and forty-eight minutes.
Seeing time travels fifteen degrees.
Excluding the six degrees of retrograde movement, the actual movement is nine degrees.
Venus: Morning volts in the east for eighty-two days, one hundred and thirteen thousand nine hundred and eight minutes.
Found in the West.
Two hundred and forty-six days.
Excluding the six degrees of retrograde movement, the actual movement is 246 degrees.
Fall in the morning and travel one hundred degrees, one hundred and thirteen thousand nine hundred and eight minutes.
Found in the East.
As the sun moves westward, it will stay in the sky for ten days and retreat eight degrees.
Mercury: Morning volt thirty-three days six hundred and one thousand two thousand five hundred and five.
Found in the West.
Thirty-two days.
Excluding the one degree of retrograde movement, the actual movement is thirty-two degrees.
Fu Shi travels sixty-five degrees, six hundred and one thousand two thousand five hundred and five.
Found in the East.
As the sun moves westward. Eighteen days of incubation, fourteen degrees of regression.
Five Star Calendar Steps:
Add the number of days, degrees and remainders of a given planet's subdued hour to the time, celestial degree and remainder of the planet's conjunction. The remainder greater than the degree rule is converted into the number of days, degrees and the addition. The naming method is the same as before, and the time and celestial degree of the planet's appearance can be obtained.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
凡言如盈约满，皆求实之除也；去及除之，取尽之除也。木：晨与日合，伏，顺，十六日百七十四万二千三百二十三分，行星二度三百二十三万四千六百七分，而晨见东方，在日后。
顺，疾，日行五十八分之十一，五十八日行十一度。
更顺，迟，日行九分，五十八日行九度。
留，不行二十五日而旋。
逆，日行七分之一，八十四日退十二度。
复留，二十五日而顺，日行五十八分之九，五十八日行九度。
顺，疾，日行十一分，五十八日行十一度，在日前，夕伏西方。
十六日百七十四万二千三百二十三分，行星二度三百二十三万四千六百七分，而与日合。
凡一终，三百九十八日三百四十八万四千六百四十六分，行星四十三度二百五十万九千九百五十六分。
火：晨与日合，伏，顺，七十一日百四十八万九千八百六十八分，行星五十五度百二十四万二千八百六十分半，而晨见东方，在日后。
顺，日行二十三分之十四，百八十四日行一百一十二度。
更顺，迟，日行二十三分之十二，九十二日行四十八度。
留，不行十一日。
旋，逆，日行六十二分之十七，六十二日退十七度。
复留，十一日而顺，日行十二分，九十二日行四十八度。
复顺，疾，日行十四分，百八十四日行百一十二度，在日前，夕伏西方。
七十一日百四十八万九千八百六十八分，行星五十五度百二十四万二千八百六十分半，而与日合。
凡一终，七百七十九日九十七万三千一十三分，行星四百一十四度四十七万八千九百九十八分。
土：晨与日合，伏，顺，十六日百一十二万二千四百二十六分半，行星一度百九十九万五千八百六十四分半，而晨见东方，在日后。
顺，日行三十五分之三，八十七日半行七度半。
translation: 
Multiply the denominator of the planet's daily movement fraction by the degree when the star first appeared. Divide the degree remainder by the day degree method to get one, even if the degree remainder does not reach more than half of the degree method, you get one; add the fraction of the daily movement, and the fraction completes its corresponding denominator to get one degree. The denominator used in retrograde and direct motion is different. Multiply the current corresponding denominator by the previous moving denominator and divide it by the denominator corresponding to the previous moving denominator. The result is the moving denominator corresponding to the current denominator. When the planets are stationary, the celestial degree remains the same as before, and when retrograde, it is reduced. When it is volts, the degree of daily movement is not written. When it passes through the Dilu, the Diucius points are removed, and the current denominator is used as the ratio. The movement points increase and decrease, and the previous and later refer to each other. Jupiter: It meets the Sun in the morning, is in volts, and goes direct. It lasts for 142,323 minutes in sixteen days, traveling a total of two degrees and 3,234,607 minutes. It then appears in the east in the morning, behind the Sun.
Direct motion, fast, moving 11/58 degrees every day, totaling 11 degrees in fifty-eight days.
Then it moves forward slowly, moving nine minutes every day, and it moves nine degrees in total in fifty-eight days.
Stay, stay still for twenty-five days and turn around.
In retrograde motion, it moves one-seventh of a degree every day, and retrogrades a total of twelve degrees in eighty-four days.
If it stays longer, it will turn direct after twenty-five days, moving nine-fifty-eight degrees every day, and nine degrees in total in fifty-eight days.
Direct motion, fast, moving 11/58 degrees every day, 11 degrees in fifty-eight days, in front of the sun, and lying in the west at night.
Sixteen days, 1,742,323 minutes, it travels a total of two degrees, 3,234,607 minutes, to meet the sun.
In total, there are 398 days and 3,484,646 minutes, running thirty-three degrees and 2,599,956 minutes.
Mars: joins the Sun in the morning, is volts, and goes direct. It travels fifty-five degrees and 1,242,860 and five minutes in seventy-one days, 1,489,868 minutes, and then appears in the east in the morning, behind the Sun.
Direct motion, it moves 14/23 degrees every day, and 112 degrees every 184 days.
Then it moves forward slowly, moving 12/23 degrees every day and 48 degrees in 92 days.
Stay and don’t move for eleven days.
Diversion, retrograde, runs 17/62 per day. Seventeen degrees of regression in sixty-two days.
If it stays longer, it will turn direct after eleven days, moving 12/23 degrees every day and 48 degrees in ninety-two days.
Then it goes direct, fast, traveling 14/23 degrees every day, 112 degrees in 184 days, before the sun, and lying in the west at night.
Seventy-one days, 1,489,868 minutes, travels 55 degrees, 1,242,860 points and five minutes, and meets the sun.
In total, there are seven hundred and seventy-nine days and nine hundred and seventy-three thousand and thirteen minutes, running four hundred and fourteen degrees and four hundred and seventy-eight thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight minutes.
Saturn: It joins the sun in the morning, is in volts, and goes direct. It lasts 1,122,426 and 5 minutes in 16 days. It moves once at 1,995,864 and 5 minutes. It then appears in the east in the morning, behind the sun.
Direct motion, it moves three-thirty-fifths of a day, and seven-point-five degrees every eighty-seven point five days.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
留，不行三十四日。
旋，逆，日行十七分之一，百二日退六度。
复三十四日而顺，日行三分，八十七日行七度半，在日前，夕伏西方。
十六日百一十二万二千四百二十六分半，行星一度百九十万五千八百六十四分半，而与日合也。
凡一终，三百七十八日十六万六千二百七十二分，行星十二度百七十三万三千一百四十八分。
金：晨与日合，伏，逆，五日退四度，而晨见东方，在日后。
逆，日行五分度之三，十日退六度。
留，不行八日。
旋，顺，迟，日行四十六分之三十三，四十六日行三十三度而顺。
疾，日行一度九十一分之十五，九十一日行一百六度。
更顺，益疾，日行一度九十一分之二十二，九十一日行百一十三度，在日后，晨伏东方。
顺，四十一日五万六千九百五十四分，行星五十度五万六千九百五十四分，而与日合。
一合，二百九十二日五万六千九百五十四分，行星亦如之。
金：夕与日合，伏，顺，四十一日五万六千九百五十四分，行星五十度五万九千九百五十四分，而夕见西方，在日前。
顺，疾，日行一度九十一分之二十二，九十一日行百一十三度。
更顺，减疾，日行一度十五分，九十一日行百六度而顺。
迟，日行四十六分之三十三，四十六日行三十三度。
留，不行八日。
旋，逆，日行五分之三，十日退六度，在日前，夕伏西方，逆，疾，五日退四度，而与日合。
凡再合一终，五百八十四日十一万三千九百八分，行星亦如之。
水：晨与日合，伏，逆，九日退七度，而晨见东方，在日后。
更逆，疾，一日退一度。
留，不行二日。
旋，顺，迟，日行九分之八，九日行八度而顺。
疾，日行一度四分之一，二十日行二十五度，在日后。
晨伏东方，顺，十六日六百四十一万九百六十七分，行星三十二度六百四十一万九百六十七分，而与日合，一合，五十七日六百四十一万九百六十七分，行星亦如之。
水：夕与日合，伏，顺，十六日六百四十一万九百六十七分行星三十二度六百四十一万九百六十七分，而夕见西方，在日前。
顺，疾，日行一度四分之一，二十日行二十五度而顺。
迟，日行九分之八，九日行八度。
留，不行二日。
旋，逆，一日退一度，在日前，夕伏西方。
逆，迟，九日退七度，与日合。
凡再合一终，一百一十五日六百一万二千五百五分，行星亦如之。
translation: 
Stay and don’t move for thirty-four days.
Turning, retrograde, travels one-seventeenth of a degree every day, and retreats six degrees in one hundred and two days.
If it stays again, it will turn direct after thirty-four days, moving three-thirty-fifths of a degree every day, seven-and-a-half degrees in eighty-seven point five days, in front of the sun, and lying in the west at night.
Sixteen days, one hundred, one hundred and twenty-two thousand four hundred and twenty-six and a half points, it travels one degree, nine hundred and fifteen thousand eight hundred and sixty-four and five points, and meets the sun.
In total, there will be a total of 378 days and 166,272 minutes, running through twelve degrees and 1,733,148 minutes.
Venus: Conjuncts the Sun in the morning, becomes retrograde, retrogrades four degrees in five days, and appears in the east in the morning, behind the Sun.
It is retrograde, traveling three-fifths of a degree every day and retrograde six degrees in ten days.
Stay and don’t move for eight days.
Turn, forward, slow, travel thirty-three/46 degrees every day, thirty-three degrees in forty-six days.
Fast, it runs one and fifteen/91 degrees every day, and one hundred and six degrees every ninety-one days.
It goes forward again, faster, traveling one and twenty-two/91 degrees per day, and one hundred and thirteen degrees in ninety-one days, behind the sun, and lying on the beam side in the morning.
Direct motion, forty-one days, fifty-six thousand nine hundred and fifty-four minutes, moves fifty degrees, fifty-six thousand nine hundred and fifty-four minutes, and meets the sun.
In one combination, the total is 292 days and 56,954 minutes, and the running number is also 292 degrees and 56,954 minutes.
Venus: It meets the Sun in the evening, is in subdued state, and goes direct. It moves fifty-six thousand nine hundred and fifty-four minutes in the forty-one day, and fifty-nine thousand nine hundred and fifty-four should be fifty-six thousand nine hundred and fifty-four. It then appears in the west in the evening, in front of the sun.
Direct motion, fast, traveling one and twenty-two/91 degrees per day, and one hundred and thirteen degrees in ninety-one days.
It goes forward again and slows down, running one degree and fifteen minutes every day, and one hundred and six degrees every ninety-one days.
Slowly, it runs 33/46 degrees every day and 33 degrees in forty-six days.
Stay and don’t move for eight days.
Turning, retrograde, moving three-fifths of a degree a day and retrograde six degrees in ten days, ahead of the Sun. It lies in the west at night, retrograde, fast, retrogrades four degrees in five days, and meets the sun.
The total of the two rendezvous is 584 days and 113,908 minutes, and the running capacity is also 584 degrees and 113,908 minutes.
Mercury: Conjuncts the Sun in the morning, volts, retrograde, retrogrades seven degrees in nine days, appears in the east in the morning, behind the Sun.
Continue retrograde, fast, one degree of regression a day.
Stay and don't move for two days.
Turn, go forward, slow, move nine-eighths of a degree every day, eight degrees in nine days.
Fast, traveling one and a quarter degrees every day and twenty-five degrees in twenty days, behind the sun.
In the morning, it lies in the east and moves forward. It travels 32 degrees and 6,410,967 minutes in sixteen days to meet the sun. A total of fifty-seven days and six hundred and forty-one thousand nine hundred and sixty-seven minutes, and the running number is also fifty-seven degrees and six hundred and forty-one thousand nine hundred and sixty-seven minutes.
Mercury: It meets the Sun in the evening, is in subdued state, and goes direct. It travels 32 degrees and 6410,967 minutes in sixteen days and appears in the west at night.
before the sun. Direct motion, fast, moving one and a quarter degrees every day, twenty-five degrees in twenty days.
Slowly, it runs nine-eighths of a degree every day and eight degrees in nine days.
Stay and don't move for two days.
Turn, retrograde, move backward one degree a day, in front of the sun, and lie in the west at night.
Retrograde, slow, the nine heavens retreat seven degrees and meet the sun.
A total of two rendezvous and one end, one hundred and fifteen days, six million one hundred and twelve thousand five hundred and five hundred and five hundred and fifteen hundred and fifteen hundred and fifteen hundred and fifteen degrees.


