Summary uses chunk [6, 8, 15, 19, 2]

Chunk 6: 
original: 
信犹与不忍背汉，又自以功多，汉不夺我齐，遂谢通。
通说不听，惶恐，乃阳狂为巫。
天下既定，后信以罪废为淮阴侯，谋反被诛，临死叹曰： 悔不用蒯通之言，死于女子之手！
高帝曰： 是齐辩士蒯通。
乃诏齐召蒯通。
通至，上欲亨之，曰： 昔教韩信反，何也？
通曰： 狗各吠非其主。
当彼时，臣独知齐王韩信，非知陛下也。
且秦失其鹿，天下共逐之，高材者先得。
天下匈匈，争欲为陛下所为，顾力不能，可殚诛邪！
上乃赦之。
至齐悼惠王理，曹参为相，礼下贤人，请通为客。
初，齐王田荣怨项羽，谋举兵畔之，劫齐士，不与者死。
齐处士东郭先生、梁石君在劫中，强从。
及田荣败，二人丑之，相与入深山隐居。
客谓通曰： 先生之于曹相国，拾遗举过，显贤进能，齐功莫若先生者。
先生知梁石君、东孝先生世俗所不及，何不进之于相国乎？ 通曰： 诺。
translation: 
Han Xin was hesitant and could not bear to betray the King of Han. He also thought that because of his many achievements, the King of Han would not take back the Qi State he ruled, so he politely declined Kuai Tong's suggestion.
Quin Tong was not credited because of his lobbying. He was very frightened, so he pretended to be crazy and became a wizard.
After Liu Bang, the king of Han, brought peace to the world, Han Xin was demoted to the title of Marquis of Huaiyin due to malaria, and was executed for treason. When he was dying, he sighed and said: I really regret not listening to Kuai Tong, so that I died in the hands of a woman!
The great ancestor Liu Bang said: You are talking about Kuai Tong, the debater of Qi State.
So he issued an edict and ordered the state of Qi to summon Kuai Tong.
When Kuai Tong came to the court, Emperor Gaozu wanted to have him cooked, saying: Why did you instigate Han Xin to rebel?
Quinton said: Dogs always bark at people other than their owners.
At that time, I only knew about King Han Xin of Qi, but I didn’t know about you.
Moreover, when the Qin Dynasty lost its throne, everyone in the world fought for it, and the talented ones got it first.
The world is in chaos, and people are vying to do what you do. They just don't have the ability. Can you kill them all?
Emperor Gaozu then pardoned him.
When the Qi Dynasty mourned King Hui Liu Fei, Cao Shen served as the prime minister of Qi, treated the virtuous corporal, and invited Kuai Tong as a guest.
At first, King Tian Rong of Qi resented Xiang Yu and planned to raise an army to betray him, coercing Qi's scholars and killing them if they did not obey.
Mr. Shu Guo and Liang Shijun, who were unwilling to serve as officials in Qi State, were also coerced and reluctantly obeyed.
When Tian Rong failed, both of them felt very humiliated, so they followed each other into the mountains to live in seclusion.
Someone said to Kuai Tong: Sir, you have pointed out the omissions and mistakes of Cao Xiangguo and recommended talented people. No one in Qi can compare with you.
You know that Liang Shijun and Mr. Dong Guo are sages who cannot be compared with mediocre people. Why don't you recommend them to Cao Xiangguo? Kuai Tong said: OK.

summary:
summary line 0: Kuai Tong, a native of Fanyang, lobbied Xu Gong, the magistrate of Fanyang, during the Chu-Han conflict. He warned Xu Gong that his harsh rule had created many enemies, and with Qin laws no longer enforceable, he was in danger. Kuai Tong then proposed a plan to Wu Chen, Wu Xinjun: rather than attacking cities, he should welcome Xu Gong with honor to encourage other cities to surrender. Wu Chen followed this advice, and over thirty cities surrendered without battle. Later, Kuai Tong persuaded Han Xin to attack Qi despite Li Shiqi's diplomatic mission, arguing that military conquest would earn greater merit. Han Xin agreed, crossed the Yellow River, and defeated Qi, leading to Li Shiqi's execution. Kuai Tong later urged Han Xin to betray Liu Bang and create a tripartite balance of power, warning that Han Xin's achievements made him a threat to the Han king. Han Xin hesitated, citing Liu Bang's kindness, and declined. Kuai Tong, fearing retribution, feigned madness. After Han Xin's execution, Liu Bang summoned Kuai Tong, who defended himself by saying a dog barks at those not its master. Liu Bang pardoned him. Kuai Tong later served as a guest to Cao Shen, the prime minister of Qi, and recommended the reclusive scholars Shu Guo and Liang Shijun. He also wrote a book on lobbying strategies.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
通论战国时说士权变，亦自序其说，凡八十一首，号曰《隽永》。
初，通善齐人安其生，安其生尝干项羽，羽不能用其策。
而项羽欲封此两人，两人卒不肯受。
伍被，楚人也。
或言其先伍子胥后也。
被以材能称，为淮南中郎。
是时淮南王安好术学，折节下士，招致英隽以百数，被为冠首。
久之，淮南王阴有邪谋，被数微谏。
后王坐东宫，召被欲与计事，呼之曰： 将军上。
被曰： 王安得亡国之言乎？
昔子胥谏吴王，吴王不用，乃曰 臣今见麋鹿游姑苏之台也。 今臣亦将见宫中生荆棘，露沾衣也。
于是王怒，系被父母，囚之三月。
王复召被曰： 将军许寡人乎？
被曰： 不，臣将为大王画计耳。
臣闻陪者听于无声，明者见于未形，故圣人万举而万全。
文王壹动而功显万世，列为三王，所谓因天心以动作者也。
translation: 
Kuai Tong discussed the contingency techniques of lobbyists during the Warring States Period, also added his own comments, and wrote a book called "Juan Yong".
At the beginning, Kuai Tong had a good relationship with Qiren An Qisheng. An Qisheng once made suggestions for Xiang Yu, but Xiang Yu could not adopt them.
Xiang Yu wanted to give Kuai Tong and An Qisheng titles and fiefs, but these two were always unwilling to accept them.
Wu Bei, a native of Chu.
Some people say that his ancestor is a descendant of Wu Zixu.
Wu Bei became famous for his talents and served as a lieutenant in Huainan Kingdom.
At that time, the king of Huainan, Liu An, loved academics and was devoted to the virtuous. He recruited hundreds of handsome and learned people, and Wu was ranked first.
After a long time, the king of Huainan conspired to rebel, and Wu was admonished privately many times.
Later, the King of Huainan was sitting in Shu Palace and summoned Wu Bei to discuss matters with him. He called: General, please come forward.
Wu was asked: Where did the king get the words of subjugation?
Once upon a time, Wu Zixu advised the king of Wu, but the king did not accept it. Wu Zixu said: "Now I see elk roaming on the Gusu platform, and now I will also see thorns growing in the palace, and dew soaking the skirts of my clothes."
So the King of Huainan was very angry and detained Wu Bei's parents and imprisoned them for three months.
The king of Huainan summoned Wu Yuan again and said, "General, have you listened to me?"
Wu Bei said: No! I will advise you, your Majesty.
I heard that smart people are wise and can predict things before they appear, so the saints are foolproof when doing things.
King Wen of Zhou's actions made him famous in later generations, and he was listed as the second king. Creation means that he should act in accordance with the heart of heaven.

summary:
summary line 1: Wu Bei, a descendant of Wu Zixu, served as a lieutenant in Huainan under King Liu An. When the king plotted rebellion, Wu Bei repeatedly admonished him, arguing that the Han dynasty was stable and prosperous, with orderly governance, thriving trade, and subdued enemies. The king dismissed this, citing the Qin collapse as precedent. Wu Bei countered that Qin's tyranny had caused widespread suffering, while the Han emperor ruled with benevolence and had popular support. He warned that rebellion would fail, as the king's forces were weak and the times were peaceful. The king ignored him and proceeded with plans, but the conspiracy was discovered. Wu Bei surrendered and confessed, but was executed despite his earlier praise of Han, as Zhang Tang argued his initial role in planning the rebellion was unforgivable.

Chunk 15: 
original: 
充本名齐，有女弟善鼓琴歌舞，嫁之赵太子丹。
齐得幸于敬肃王，为上客。
久之，太子疑齐以己阴私告王，与齐忤，使吏逐捕齐，不得，收系其父兄，按验，皆弃市。
齐遂绝迹亡，西人关，更名充。诣阙告太子丹与同产姊及王后宫奸乱，交通郡国豪猾，攻剽为奸，吏不能禁。
书奏，天子怒，遣使者诏郡发吏卒围赵王宫，收捕太子丹，移系魏郡诏狱，与廷尉杂治，法至死。
赵王彭祖，帝异母兄也，上书讼太子罪，言 充逋逃小臣，苟为奸讹，激怒圣朝，欲取必于万乘以复私怨。后虽亨醢，计犹不悔。
臣愿选从赵国勇敢士，从军击匈奴，极尽死力，以赎丹罪。
上不许，竟败赵太子。
初，充召见犬台宫，自请愿以所常被服冠见上。
上许之。充衣纱縠禅衣，曲裾后垂交输，冠禅纚步摇冠，飞翮之缨。
充为人魁岸，容貌甚壮。帝望见而异之，谓左右曰： 燕、赵固多奇士。
既至前，问以当世政事，上说之。
充因自请，愿使匈奴。
诏问其状，充对曰： 因变制宜，以敌为师，事不可豫图。
上以充为谒者使匈奴，还，拜为直指绣衣使者，督三辅盗贼，禁察逾侈。
translation: 
Jiang Chong's real name was Jiang Qi. He had a younger sister who was good at playing the piano and dancing and married Prince Liu Dan.
Jiang Qi was favored by King Zhao Jingsu and Liu Pengzu and became his first-class guest.
After a long time, Prince Liu Dan suspected that Jiang Qi had told the king of his secrets, so he fell out with Jiang Qi and sent officials to hunt down Jiang Qi. When they didn't catch him, he arrested his father and brother, interrogated them, and beheaded them all in public.
Jiang Qi then fled in hiding, entered Guanzhong in the west, changed his name to Jiang Chong, and went to the palace to report that the crown prince Liu Dan had committed adultery and incest with his half-sister and the concubines of King Zhao.
The emperor was furious and sent a messenger to order the county to dispatch officers and soldiers to surround the palace of King Zhao, arrest the prince Liu Dan, and transfer him to the prison of Wei County under Shao's order. He was tried together with the Tingwei, and Liu Dan was sentenced to death according to law.
King Zhao Liu Pengzu was the half-brother of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty. He wrote a letter to file a lawsuit for the crown prince Liu Dan, saying: Jiang Chong is a fugitive minister who deliberately fabricates lies to anger the Ming Dynasty to ensure that the emperor believes in him, so as to avenge personal grudges. Even if he is sentenced to be cooked or minced in the future, he will have no regrets.
I am willing to select brave men from Zhao who dare to die, join the army with them to attack the Xiongnu, and die as hard as I can, in order to atone for Liu Dan's sins.
Emperor Wu disagreed and finally deposed Prince Zhao.
At first, Jiang Chong was summoned to Quan Tai Palace, and he requested to see the emperor in his usual clothes.
Emperor Wu agreed, and Jiang Chong wore a gauze-shell Zen robe with a curved train that hung back like a swallow's tail. He wore a Zen tassel on his head and a waving crown with bird feathers as a tassel.
Jiang Chong was tall and handsome, and Emperor Wu was surprised to see him. He said to the people around him: "Yan and Chang are many talented people."
Jiang Chong had already come to Emperor Wu. Emperor Wu asked him about the political affairs of the country at that time and was very satisfied with him.
Jiang Chong then voluntarily requested to be sent as an envoy to the Xiongnu.
Emperor Wu sent a letter to Shao Shu asking about the strategy of the envoy. Jiang Chong replied: It is necessary to adapt to changes and adapt to circumstances, not to plan in advance.
Emperor Wu appointed Jiang Chong as his visitor. After Jiang Chong came back from his mission to the Xiongnu, he was appointed as the envoy of Zhizhi Xiuyi, supervising the thieves in the Sanfu area and prohibiting the powerful and wealthy from excessive luxury and going beyond the system.

summary:
summary line 2: Jiang Chong, originally named Jiang Qi, fled to Chang'an after a feud with Prince Liu Dan of Zhao. He reported the prince's incest and adultery, leading to Liu Dan's deposition. Jiang Chong gained Emperor Wu's favor through his appearance and advice on foreign policy. He was appointed to supervise the capital, enforcing laws against luxury and arresting offenders. He detained the prince's envoy for using the imperial road, earning the emperor's praise. Later, fearing the prince would harm him after the emperor's death, Jiang Chong fabricated a witchcraft scandal, accusing the prince of cursing the emperor. He tortured confessions, killing tens of thousands. The prince, unable to defend himself, arrested and executed Jiang Chong. The prince's rebellion failed, and Emperor Wu later annihilated Jiang Chong's clan.

Chunk 19: 
original: 
今无盐有大石自立，闻邪臣托往事，以为大山石立而先帝龙兴。
东平王云以故与其后日夜祠祭祝诅上，欲求非望。
而后舅伍宏反因方术以医技得幸，出入禁门。
霍显之谋将行于杯杓，荆轲之变必起于帷幄。
事势若此，告之必成；发国奸，诛主雠，取封侯之计也。
躬、宠乃与中郎右师谭，共因中常侍宋弘上变事告焉。
上恶之，下有司案验，东平王云、云后谒及伍宏等皆坐诛。
上擢宠为南阳太守，谭颍川都尉，弘、躬皆光禄大夫、左曹、给事中。
是时，侍中董贤爱幸，上欲侯之，遂下诏云： 躬、宠因贤以闻，封贤为高安侯，宠为方阳侯，躬为宜陵侯，食邑各千户。
赐谭爵关内侯，食邑。
丞相王嘉内疑东平狱事，争不欲侯贤等，语在《嘉传》。
嘉固言董贤泰盛，宠、躬皆倾覆有佞邪材，恐必挠乱国家，不可任用。
嘉以此得罪矣。
躬既亲近，数进见言事，论议亡所避。
众畏其口，见之仄目。
躬上疏历诋公卿大臣，曰： 方今丞相王嘉健而蓄缩，不可用。
御史大夫贾延堕弱不任职。
左将军公孙禄、司隶鲍宣皆外有直项之名，内实騃不晓政事。
诸曹以下仆脩不足数。
translation: 
Nowadays, there are big rocks standing up on their own in Wuyan County. I heard that those evil ministers relied on past events and thought that there were big rocks standing up on their own when Emperor Xuan rose up among the people.
Therefore, Shuping King Liu Yun and his queen worshiped and cursed the emperor day and night, hoping to obtain the throne.
On the contrary, Wu Hong, the queen's uncle, was favored by the emperor because of his knowledge of alchemy and ability to cure diseases, and was allowed to enter and exit the forbidden gates of the palace.
Huo Xian's conspiracy will be carried out on the medicine cup and spoon, and Jing Ke's incident will definitely happen on the emperor's curtain.
The situation is so dangerous that the whistleblower will definitely succeed. Exposing the country's treacherous officials and killing the emperor's enemies is a clever way to gain a title.
Xifu Gong, Sun Chong and Tan, the right master of the Zhonglang, reported to the court through Song Hong, the official of the Zhongchang, about King Dongping's rebellion.
Emperor Ai was very angry and handed the case to the relevant departments for investigation. King Shuping Liu Yun, Liu Yun's queen Ye and Wu Hong were all killed for the crime.
Emperor Ai promoted Sun Chong to be the prefect of Nanyang County, Tan, the right master, to be the captain of Yingchuan County, and Song Hong and Xifu Gong were both appointed to the post of Zuo Cao, the official of Guanglu.
At that time, Dong Xian, the servant, was very favored by the emperor. The emperor wanted to make him a marquis, so he issued an edict saying: Xifu Gong and Sun Chong reported the conspiracy through Dong Xian. Now Dong Xian is made Marquis of Gao'an, Sun Chong is Marquis of Fangyang, and Xifu Gong is Marquis of Yiling. Each of them has a thousand households.
The right master was given the title of Marquis Tan Guannei and was given the title of food town.
Prime Minister Wang Jiaxin suspected that King Shuping's case was untrue and wrote a letter to argue, not wanting to make Dong Xian and others marquises. For details, see "Biography of Wang Jia".
Wang Jia insisted that Dong Xian was too noble, and that Sun Chong and Xi Fu Gong were both insidious, treacherous, and had flattering and evil talents. They would definitely endanger the country and should not be appointed.
Wang Jia was convicted for this.
Since Xifu Gong was close to the emperor, he went to see him many times to discuss political affairs, pointing out gains and losses without any evasion.
People are afraid of being impeached by him and dare not face him when they meet him.
Xifu wrote a letter and falsely accused the ministers one by one, saying: The current Prime Minister Wang Jia is strong and impatient and cannot be appointed.
Jia Yan, the imperial censor, was cowardly and incompetent.
General Gongsun Lu, the general of the left, and Bao Xuan, the captain of the Sili school, both had false reputations for being upright, but in fact they were dull and unfamiliar with political affairs.
Officials below Cao Cao are mediocre and not worth mentioning.

summary:
summary line 3: Xifu Gong, a scholar from Heyang, gained fame through his friend Fu Yan, the queen's father. With Sun Chong, he fabricated a plot against King Shuping Liu Yun, accusing him of witchcraft. The king and his associates were executed, and Xifu Gong was made Marquis of Yiling. He became a close advisor to Emperor Ai, criticizing officials and proposing policies, including expanding irrigation canals. He suggested a deceptive strategy to weaken the Xiongnu by forging letters, but General Gongsun Lu opposed it. Xifu Gong also urged military preparations based on astrological signs, but Prime Minister Wang Jia warned against flattery and deceit. The emperor initially supported Xifu Gong, but after a solar eclipse, Dong Xian undermined him. Xifu Gong was dismissed and later accused of cursing the emperor. He died in prison, and his family was exiled. After Emperor Ai's death, Sun Chong and others were also exiled.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
未度平原，闻汉王使郦食其说下齐，信欲止。
通说信曰： 将军受诏击齐，而汉独发间使下齐，宁有诏止将军乎？
得以得无行！
且郦生一士，伏轼掉三寸舌，下齐七十余城，将军将数万之众，乃下赵五十余城。
为将数岁，反不如一竖儒之功乎！
于是信然之，从其计，遂度河。
齐已听郦生，即留之纵酒，罢备汉守御。
信因袭历下军，遂至临菑。
齐王以郦生为欺己而亨之，因败走。
信遂定齐地，自立为齐假王。
汉方困于荥阳，遣张良即立信为齐王，以安固之。
项王亦遣武涉说信，欲与连和。
蒯通知天下权在信，欲说信令背汉，乃先微感信曰： 仆尝受相人之术，相君之面，不过封侯，又危而不安；相君之背，贵而不可言。
信曰： 何谓也？
translation: 
The army had not yet passed Pingyuan County. When I heard that Liu Bang, the king of Han, had sent Li Shiqi to persuade Qi to surrender, Han Xin wanted to stop the advance.
Kuai Tong lobbied Han Xin and said: General, you were ordered by the King of Han to attack the State of Qi, and the King of Han sent a separate envoy who was also a spy to persuade the State of Qi to surrender. Is there an edict ordering you to stop attacking?
Why not march?
Moreover, Mr. Li, as a scholar, rode there and persuaded more than 70 cities of Qi to surrender with his sharp tongue. General, you led tens of thousands of troops to capture more than 50 cities of Zhao.
Having been a general for several years is not as great as the contribution of a Confucian scholar.
So Han Xin thought what he said made sense, adopted his suggestion, and finally crossed the Yellow River.
The King of Qi had listened to Li Shiqi's persuasion, so he left him behind, drank and had fun together, and removed the defense against the Han Dynasty.
Han Xin therefore attacked the Qi army in Lixia and came to Linmiao City.
The King of Qi thought that Li Shiqi had deceived him, so he put him in boiling water and boiled him to death. As a result, he was defeated and fled.
Han Xin finally pacified Qi and established himself as the acting king of Qi.
At that time, the King of Han was under siege in Rongyang, so he sent Zhang Liang to make Han Xin the official King of Qi, comfort him, and make him firmly side with the King of Han.
Xiang Yu also sent Wu She to persuade Han Xin to join forces with him.
Kuai Tong knew that the change of the world situation depended on Han Xin, and wanted to persuade Han Xin to betray the Han Dynasty, so he first hinted at Han Xin in cryptic words: I once learned the art of physiognomy, and observing your face, I can only be made a marquis, and you will always be in danger; but looking at your back, it is very noble and difficult to tell.
Han Xin asked: What do you mean?

summary:
summary line 4: The text concludes with a lament on the dangers of eloquent but harmful advisors, citing historical examples from the Spring and Autumn period to the Han dynasty, where slander and deceit led to disasters, including the deaths of rulers and the ruin of states.

