Chunk 0: 
original: 
蒯通，范阳人也，本与武帝同讳。
楚汉初起，武臣略定赵地，号武信君。
通说范阳令徐公曰： 臣，范阳百姓蒯通也，窃闵公之将死，故吊之。
虽然，贺公得通而生也。
徐公再拜曰： 何以吊之？
通曰： 足下为令十余年矣，杀人之父，孤人之子，断人之足，黥人之首，甚众。
慈父孝子所以不敢事刃于公之腹者，畏秦法也。
今天下大乱，秦政不施，然则慈父孝子将争接刃于公之腹，以复其怨而成其名。
此通之所以吊者也。 曰： 何以贺得子而生也？
曰： 赵武信君不知通不肖，使人候问其死生，通且见武信君而说之，曰： 必将战胜而后略地，攻得而后下城，臣窃以为殆矣。
translation: 
Kuai Tong, a native of Fanyang County, had the same name as Emperor Wu, Kuai Che.
When the Chu and Han Dynasties first emerged, Wu Chen attacked and pacified Fangdi, and was known as Wu Xinjun.
Kuai Tong lobbied Xu Gong, the magistrate of Fanyang County, and said: "I am a citizen of Fanyang, my name is Kuai Tong. I feel sorry for you that you are about to die, so I express my condolences."
Nevertheless, I congratulate you for having a chance to survive because of me, Kuai Tong.
Xu Gong thanked him repeatedly and asked: "Why do you express condolences?"
Kuai Tong said: You have been the county magistrate for more than ten years. You have killed other people's fathers, made other people's sons orphans, chopped off people's feet, and given people tattoos. Too many people have suffered.
The reason why loving fathers and filial sons dare not insert a knife into your belly is because they are afraid of the laws of the Qin Dynasty.
Now the world is in chaos, and the Qin Dynasty's decrees cannot be implemented. In this case, those loving fathers and filial sons will rush to stab you with bayonets in your belly to avenge you and achieve fame. This is the reason for my condolences.
Xu Gong asked again: "Why do you congratulate me on getting a husband and finding a way out?"
Kuai Tong replied: Lord Wu Xin who traveled to the country did not know that I was incompetent, so he sent people to inquire about his good or bad luck. Now I am going to meet and persuade him, and say to him: You must defeat the enemy before you gain the territory, and conquer the city before occupying it. I privately feel that it is very dangerous.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
用臣之计，毋战而略地，不攻而下城，传檄而千里定，可乎？
彼将曰： 何谓也？
臣因对曰： 范阳令宜整顿其士卒以守战者也，怯而畏死，贪而好富贵，故欲以其城先下君。
先下君而君不利之，则边地之城皆将相告曰 范阳令先降而身死 ，必将婴城固守，皆为金城汤池，不可攻也。
为君计者，莫若以黄屋朱轮迎范阳令，使驰骛于燕、赵之郊，则边城皆将相告曰 范阳令先下而身富贵 ，必相率而降，犹如阪上走丸也。
此臣所谓传檄而千里定者也。 徐公再拜，具车马遣通。
通遂以此说武臣。
武臣以车百乘、骑二百、侯印迎徐公。
燕、赵闻之，降者三十余城。如通策焉。
后汉将韩信虏魏王，破赵、代，降燕，定三国，引兵将东击齐。
translation: 
If you adopt my strategy, you will gain land without fighting, occupy the city without attacking, and be able to pacify thousands of miles by sending messages. Is this okay?
He will ask: What is your strategy?
I took the opportunity to reply: Magistrate Fan Yang should have organized his army, guarded the city, and resisted, but because he was cowardly and fearful of death, greedy and fond of wealth, he wanted to surrender the city to you first.
If he is the first to surrender to you and you do not give him any favors, then all the cities in the border areas will tell each other: The magistrate of Fanyang County was the first to surrender and was killed. We will definitely defend the city and it will be as difficult to capture as Jincheng Tangchi.
For your sake, it would be better to welcome Magistrate Fanyang with a yellow-covered and red-wheeled chariot, and let him ride on the border between Yan and Pang to show off. Then the cities on the border will tell each other: Magistrate Fanyang surrendered first and gained wealth. There will be a race to surrender, as easy as a mud ball rolling down a hillside.
Create what I call the strategy of pacifying Qianli by sending a message. , Xu Gong thanked him repeatedly and prepared carriages and horses to send Kuai Tong away.
Kuai Tong persuaded the military ministers with these words.
The military officials used a hundred chariots and two hundred cavalry to greet Duke Xu.
When Yan and Fang heard about this, more than thirty cities surrendered, just as expected by Kuai Tong's strategy.
Later, the Han general Han Xin captured the King of Wei, conquered Tiao and Dai, made Yan surrender, and pacified the three kingdoms one after another, and then led his troops eastward to attack Qi.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
未度平原，闻汉王使郦食其说下齐，信欲止。
通说信曰： 将军受诏击齐，而汉独发间使下齐，宁有诏止将军乎？
得以得无行！
且郦生一士，伏轼掉三寸舌，下齐七十余城，将军将数万之众，乃下赵五十余城。
为将数岁，反不如一竖儒之功乎！
于是信然之，从其计，遂度河。
齐已听郦生，即留之纵酒，罢备汉守御。
信因袭历下军，遂至临菑。
齐王以郦生为欺己而亨之，因败走。
信遂定齐地，自立为齐假王。
汉方困于荥阳，遣张良即立信为齐王，以安固之。
项王亦遣武涉说信，欲与连和。
蒯通知天下权在信，欲说信令背汉，乃先微感信曰： 仆尝受相人之术，相君之面，不过封侯，又危而不安；相君之背，贵而不可言。
信曰： 何谓也？
translation: 
The army had not yet passed Pingyuan County. When I heard that Liu Bang, the king of Han, had sent Li Shiqi to persuade Qi to surrender, Han Xin wanted to stop the advance.
Kuai Tong lobbied Han Xin and said: General, you were ordered by the King of Han to attack the State of Qi, and the King of Han sent a separate envoy who was also a spy to persuade the State of Qi to surrender. Is there an edict ordering you to stop attacking?
Why not march?
Moreover, Mr. Li, as a scholar, rode there and persuaded more than 70 cities of Qi to surrender with his sharp tongue. General, you led tens of thousands of troops to capture more than 50 cities of Zhao.
Having been a general for several years is not as great as the contribution of a Confucian scholar.
So Han Xin thought what he said made sense, adopted his suggestion, and finally crossed the Yellow River.
The King of Qi had listened to Li Shiqi's persuasion, so he left him behind, drank and had fun together, and removed the defense against the Han Dynasty.
Han Xin therefore attacked the Qi army in Lixia and came to Linmiao City.
The King of Qi thought that Li Shiqi had deceived him, so he put him in boiling water and boiled him to death. As a result, he was defeated and fled.
Han Xin finally pacified Qi and established himself as the acting king of Qi.
At that time, the King of Han was under siege in Rongyang, so he sent Zhang Liang to make Han Xin the official King of Qi, comfort him, and make him firmly side with the King of Han.
Xiang Yu also sent Wu She to persuade Han Xin to join forces with him.
Kuai Tong knew that the change of the world situation depended on Han Xin, and wanted to persuade Han Xin to betray the Han Dynasty, so he first hinted at Han Xin in cryptic words: I once learned the art of physiognomy, and observing your face, I can only be made a marquis, and you will always be in danger; but looking at your back, it is very noble and difficult to tell.
Han Xin asked: What do you mean?


Chunk 3: 
original: 
通因请间，曰： 天下初作难也，俊雄豪桀建号壹呼，天下之士云合雾集，鱼鳞杂袭，飘至风起。
当此之时，忧在亡秦而已。
今刘、项分争，使人肝脑涂地，流离中野，不可胜数。
汉王将数十万众，距巩、雒、岨山河，一日数战，无尺寸之功，折北不救，败荥阳，伤成皋，还走宛、叶之间，此所谓智勇俱困者也。
楚人起彭城，转斗逐北，至荥阳，乘利席胜，威震天下，然兵困于京、索之间，迫西山而不能进，三年于此矣。
锐气挫于险塞，粮食尽于内藏，百姓罢极，无所归命。
以臣料之，非天下贤圣，其势固不能息天下之祸。
当今之时，两主县命足下。
足下为汉则汉胜。与楚则楚胜。
臣愿披心腹，堕肝胆，效愚忠，恐足下不能用也。
translation: 
Kuai Tong then asked others to go away, and then said: When the world first rises up, heroes and heroes establish themselves as princes and kings, raise their arms and shout, and the people of the world gather like clouds and mist, are mixed and accumulated like fish scales, and rise up quickly like a strong wind.
People often only worry about overthrowing the Qin Dynasty.
Now Liu Bang and Xiang Yu are fighting, and countless people have been displaced.
The King of Han led hundreds of thousands of troops to defend Gong and Luo. Taking advantage of the dangers of the mountains and rivers, he fought several battles in vain. He was defeated and fled without rescue. He was defeated in Rongyang, wounded in Chenggao, and fled to Wan and Ye. This is said to be a person whose wisdom and courage are in trouble.
The Chu people raised their troops in Pengcheng, fought many battles, and were invincible. They marched to Rongyang, taking advantage of the victory, and shocked the world. However, they were blocked between Jing and Suo, and they were unable to advance near Xishan. It has been three years now.
Their vigor was thwarted at the steep pass, the treasury was depleted of food, and the people were miserable, not knowing who to surrender to.
In my opinion, unless there are sages in the world. Otherwise, it will be impossible to eliminate the disasters in the world.
Now the fate of Liu Bang and Xiang Yu is in your hands.
If you help the King of Han, the King of Han will win; if you join forces with the King of Chu, the King of Chu will succeed.
I am willing to express my sincere sincerity to you, but I am afraid that you will not accept my suggestion.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
方今为足下计，莫若两利而俱存之，参分天下，鼎足而立，其势莫敢先动。
夫以足下之贤圣，有甲兵之众，据强齐，从燕、赵，出空虚之地以制其后，因民之欲，西乡为百姓请命，天下孰敢不听！
足下按齐国之故，有淮、泗之地，怀诸侯以德，深拱揖让，则天下君王相率而朝齐矣。
盖闻 天与弗取，反受其咎；时至弗行，反受其殃 。
愿足下孰图之。 信曰： 汉遇我厚，吾岂可见利而背恩乎！
通曰： 始常山王、成安君故相与为刎颈之交，及争张黡、陈释之事，常山王奉头鼠窜，以归汉王。借兵东下，战于鄗北，成安君死于泜水之南，头足异处。
此二人相与，天下之至驩也，而卒相灭亡者，何也？
患生于多欲而人心难测也。
今足下行忠信以交于汉王，必不能固于二君之相与也，而事多大于张黡、陈释之事者，故臣以为足下必汉王之不危足下，过矣。
大夫种存亡越，伯句践，立功名而身死。
语曰： 野禽殚，走犬亨；敌国破，谋臣亡。
故以交友言之，则不过张王与成安君；以忠臣言之，则不过大夫种。
此二者，宜足以观矣。
translation: 
Now for your sake, it would be better for both of them to benefit and coexist together. If the world is divided into three parts and they stand as a tripod, no one will dare to attack first.
With your wisdom and wisdom, you have many armies in mail, occupying the powerful state of Qi, uniting Yan and Zhao, sending troops to the empty land to control their rear, obeying the people's will, heading west to stop the fighting between Chu and Han, and saving the soldiers from death. No one in the world dares to disobey!
If you own the land between Huai and Si according to the original territory of Qi, appease the princes with your kindness, give them a home in peace, and treat the wise men with courtesy, then all the princes in the world will come to worship Qi.
I heard that if you don’t accept a gift from God, you will be blamed; if you don’t act when the time comes, you will get disaster. I hope you will think about it carefully.
Han Xin said: The King of Han treats me well, how can I be so unjust and ungrateful for the sake of profit?
Kuai Tong said: At first, Zhang Er, the king of Changshan, and Chen Yu, the lord of Cheng'an, formed a life-and-death relationship. When they quarreled over the affairs of Zhang Wei and Chen Shi, the king of Changshan fled with his head in his arms and joined the king of Han. He borrowed troops and fought in the north of Han. Lord Cheng'an died on the south bank of the Sishui River, and the family was divided.
When the two of them got together, they were so close that no one in the world could compare with them, but in the end they killed each other and perished. Why is this?
Disasters arise from too many desires and the unpredictable nature of the human heart.
Now you are loyal to the King of Han, and your relationship is no closer than those two, and the things you argue about are often more important than those between Zhang Wei and Chen Shi. So I think your belief that the King of Han will not harm you is wrong.
Dafu Wenzhong enabled the Yue Kingdom to survive, which was about to be destroyed, and enabled Gou Jian to dominate the Central Plains and become famous but was killed.
As the saying goes: When the wild birds are hunted down, the hunting dogs will be cooked and killed; when the enemy's country is destroyed, the advisers will die.
Therefore, in terms of making friends, no one can surpass Zhang Er and Chen Yu; in terms of loyal ministers, no one can compare with Dafu Wenzhong.
These two examples should be considered as enough reference. I hope you will think about it carefully.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
愿足下深虑之。且臣闻之，勇略震主者身危，功盖天下者不赏。
足下涉西河，虏魏王，禽夏说，下井陉，诛成安君之罪，以令于赵，胁燕定齐，南摧楚人之兵数十万众，遂斩龙且，西乡以报，此所谓功无二于天下，略不出出者也。
今足下挟不赏之功，戴震主之威，归楚，楚人不信；归汉，汉人震恐。
足下欲持是安归乎？
夫势在人臣之位，而有高天下之名，切为足下危之。
信曰： 生且休矣，吾将念之。
数日，通复说曰： 听者，事之候也；计者，存亡之机也。
夫随厮养之役者，失万乘之权；守儋石之禄者，阙卿相之位。
计诚知之，而决弗敢行者，百事之祸也。
故猛虎之犹与，不如蜂虿之致蠚；孟贲之狐疑，不如童子之必至。
此言贵能行之也。
夫功者，难成而易败；时者，难值而易失。 时乎时，不再来。 愿足下无疑臣之计。
translation: 
Moreover, I have heard that those whose bravery and strategy make the monarch fearful will not be able to save their lives, and those whose achievements are overwhelming will not be rewarded.
You crossed the West River, captured the King of Wei, captured Xia Shuo alive, captured Jingxing, punished Cheng Anjun for his crimes and killed him. You were able to issue orders in the state of Chang, threaten the state of Yan, pacify the state of Qi, defeat the hundreds of thousands of soldiers of the state of Chu in the south, finally killed Lung Qie, and sent people to the west to report your merits to the king of Han.
Now your merits are so high that it is hard to reward you, and your majesty makes Jun Feng fearful. He surrenders to the Chu State, and the Chu people do not trust you; and surrenders to the Han State, and the Han people are afraid of you.
Who do you want to join with these achievements and prestige?
You are in the position of a minister and have a reputation that is higher than the world. I am really worried about you.
Han Xin said: Sir, go and rest for now, I want to think about it.
A few days later, Kuai Tong advised again: Whether one can listen to advice is a sign of success or failure; whether one's planning is appropriate is the key to survival.
If you work as a servant, you will lose the authority of Wan Chenggeren; if you keep a low salary, you will lose the opportunity to become a minister or prime minister.
If you understand this truth in your heart but dare not make a decision and take action, disaster will come one day.
Therefore, if a tiger hesitates, it is better than a bee or a scorpion stinging a person; if Meng Ben hesitates, it is better than a child to do it resolutely.
This means that the most important thing is to take practical action.
Achievements are difficult to achieve but easy to fail. Opportunities are hard to meet but easy to lose. Once the opportunity is lost, it will not come again: I hope you will not doubt my strategy.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
信犹与不忍背汉，又自以功多，汉不夺我齐，遂谢通。
通说不听，惶恐，乃阳狂为巫。
天下既定，后信以罪废为淮阴侯，谋反被诛，临死叹曰： 悔不用蒯通之言，死于女子之手！
高帝曰： 是齐辩士蒯通。
乃诏齐召蒯通。
通至，上欲亨之，曰： 昔教韩信反，何也？
通曰： 狗各吠非其主。
当彼时，臣独知齐王韩信，非知陛下也。
且秦失其鹿，天下共逐之，高材者先得。
天下匈匈，争欲为陛下所为，顾力不能，可殚诛邪！
上乃赦之。
至齐悼惠王理，曹参为相，礼下贤人，请通为客。
初，齐王田荣怨项羽，谋举兵畔之，劫齐士，不与者死。
齐处士东郭先生、梁石君在劫中，强从。
及田荣败，二人丑之，相与入深山隐居。
客谓通曰： 先生之于曹相国，拾遗举过，显贤进能，齐功莫若先生者。
先生知梁石君、东孝先生世俗所不及，何不进之于相国乎？ 通曰： 诺。
translation: 
Han Xin was hesitant and could not bear to betray the King of Han. He also thought that because of his many achievements, the King of Han would not take back the Qi State he ruled, so he politely declined Kuai Tong's suggestion.
Quin Tong was not credited because of his lobbying. He was very frightened, so he pretended to be crazy and became a wizard.
After Liu Bang, the king of Han, brought peace to the world, Han Xin was demoted to the title of Marquis of Huaiyin due to malaria, and was executed for treason. When he was dying, he sighed and said: I really regret not listening to Kuai Tong, so that I died in the hands of a woman!
The great ancestor Liu Bang said: You are talking about Kuai Tong, the debater of Qi State.
So he issued an edict and ordered the state of Qi to summon Kuai Tong.
When Kuai Tong came to the court, Emperor Gaozu wanted to have him cooked, saying: Why did you instigate Han Xin to rebel?
Quinton said: Dogs always bark at people other than their owners.
At that time, I only knew about King Han Xin of Qi, but I didn’t know about you.
Moreover, when the Qin Dynasty lost its throne, everyone in the world fought for it, and the talented ones got it first.
The world is in chaos, and people are vying to do what you do. They just don't have the ability. Can you kill them all?
Emperor Gaozu then pardoned him.
When the Qi Dynasty mourned King Hui Liu Fei, Cao Shen served as the prime minister of Qi, treated the virtuous corporal, and invited Kuai Tong as a guest.
At first, King Tian Rong of Qi resented Xiang Yu and planned to raise an army to betray him, coercing Qi's scholars and killing them if they did not obey.
Mr. Shu Guo and Liang Shijun, who were unwilling to serve as officials in Qi State, were also coerced and reluctantly obeyed.
When Tian Rong failed, both of them felt very humiliated, so they followed each other into the mountains to live in seclusion.
Someone said to Kuai Tong: Sir, you have pointed out the omissions and mistakes of Cao Xiangguo and recommended talented people. No one in Qi can compare with you.
You know that Liang Shijun and Mr. Dong Guo are sages who cannot be compared with mediocre people. Why don't you recommend them to Cao Xiangguo? Kuai Tong said: OK.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
臣之里妇，与里之诸母相善也。
里妇夜亡肉，姑以为盗，怒而逐之。
妇晨去，过所善诸母，语以事而谢之。
里母曰： 女安行，我今令而家追女矣。
即束缊请火于亡肉家，曰： 昨暮夜，犬得肉，争斗相杀，请火治之。 亡肉家遽追呼其妇。
故里母非谈说之士也，束缊乞火非还妇之道也，然物有相感，事有适可。臣请乞火于曹相国。
乃见相国曰： 妇人有夫死三日而嫁者，有幽居守寡不出门者，足下即欲求妇，何取？
曰： 取不嫁者。
通曰： 然则求臣亦犹是也，彼东郭先生、梁石君，齐之俊士也，隐居不嫁，未尝卑节下意以求仕也。
愿足下使人礼之。
曹相国曰： 敬受命。
皆以为上宾。
translation: 
There is a woman in my village who has a very good relationship with the old woman in my village.
The woman's family lost some meat at night. Her mother-in-law thought the woman had stolen it, so she drove her away angrily.
When the woman left in the morning, she called on the old woman with whom she was very close, told her what had happened, and said goodbye to her.
The old woman said: Please walk slowly, I will ask your people to chase you back now.
He immediately tied up a bundle of mess and went to the house where the meat was thrown to borrow a fire. He said: Last night, a group of dogs got a piece of meat and fought for each other to kill each other. I came to borrow a fire to boil water to shave the dead dogs' hair. The house where the meat was thrown hurriedly went to catch up and call the daughter-in-law.
Therefore, although the old woman is not an eloquent person, and tying tangled hemp to borrow fire is not a way to recall a woman, things sometimes communicate with each other, and things sometimes happen to coincide. Please let me borrow fire from Cao Xiangguo.
So he went to see Cao Xiangguo and said: Some women remarry just three days after their husbands die, while some women would rather live in seclusion and remain widowed. If you want to marry a daughter-in-law, which one will you choose?
Cao Xiangguo said: I will marry the one who doesn't want to get married.
Kuai Tong said: Then, the same should be done when seeking ministers. Mr. Shuguo and Liang Shijun were virtuous and handsome men of Qi State. They lived in seclusion in the mountains and forests. They did not want to get married and never came out to seek official positions.
I hope you will send someone to treat me with courtesy.
Cao Xiangguo said: I respectfully accept your order.
Treat both of them as distinguished guests.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
通论战国时说士权变，亦自序其说，凡八十一首，号曰《隽永》。
初，通善齐人安其生，安其生尝干项羽，羽不能用其策。
而项羽欲封此两人，两人卒不肯受。
伍被，楚人也。
或言其先伍子胥后也。
被以材能称，为淮南中郎。
是时淮南王安好术学，折节下士，招致英隽以百数，被为冠首。
久之，淮南王阴有邪谋，被数微谏。
后王坐东宫，召被欲与计事，呼之曰： 将军上。
被曰： 王安得亡国之言乎？
昔子胥谏吴王，吴王不用，乃曰 臣今见麋鹿游姑苏之台也。 今臣亦将见宫中生荆棘，露沾衣也。
于是王怒，系被父母，囚之三月。
王复召被曰： 将军许寡人乎？
被曰： 不，臣将为大王画计耳。
臣闻陪者听于无声，明者见于未形，故圣人万举而万全。
文王壹动而功显万世，列为三王，所谓因天心以动作者也。
translation: 
Kuai Tong discussed the contingency techniques of lobbyists during the Warring States Period, also added his own comments, and wrote a book called "Juan Yong".
At the beginning, Kuai Tong had a good relationship with Qiren An Qisheng. An Qisheng once made suggestions for Xiang Yu, but Xiang Yu could not adopt them.
Xiang Yu wanted to give Kuai Tong and An Qisheng titles and fiefs, but these two were always unwilling to accept them.
Wu Bei, a native of Chu.
Some people say that his ancestor is a descendant of Wu Zixu.
Wu Bei became famous for his talents and served as a lieutenant in Huainan Kingdom.
At that time, the king of Huainan, Liu An, loved academics and was devoted to the virtuous. He recruited hundreds of handsome and learned people, and Wu was ranked first.
After a long time, the king of Huainan conspired to rebel, and Wu was admonished privately many times.
Later, the King of Huainan was sitting in Shu Palace and summoned Wu Bei to discuss matters with him. He called: General, please come forward.
Wu was asked: Where did the king get the words of subjugation?
Once upon a time, Wu Zixu advised the king of Wu, but the king did not accept it. Wu Zixu said: "Now I see elk roaming on the Gusu platform, and now I will also see thorns growing in the palace, and dew soaking the skirts of my clothes."
So the King of Huainan was very angry and detained Wu Bei's parents and imprisoned them for three months.
The king of Huainan summoned Wu Yuan again and said, "General, have you listened to me?"
Wu Bei said: No! I will advise you, your Majesty.
I heard that smart people are wise and can predict things before they appear, so the saints are foolproof when doing things.
King Wen of Zhou's actions made him famous in later generations, and he was listed as the second king. Creation means that he should act in accordance with the heart of heaven.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
王曰： 方今汉庭治乎？
乱乎？ 被曰： 天下治。
王不说，曰： 公何言治也？
被对曰： 被窃观朝廷，君臣、父子、夫妇、长幼之序皆得其理，上之举错遵古之道，风俗纪纲未有所缺。
重装富贾周流天下，道无不通，交易之道行。
南越宾服，羌、僰贡献，东瓯入朝，广长榆，开朔方，匈奴折伤。
虽未及古太平时，然犹为治。
王怒，被谢死罪。
王又曰： 山东即有变，汉必使大将军将而制山东，公以为大将军何如人也？
被曰： 臣所善黄义，从大将军击匈奴，言大将军遇士大夫以礼，与士卒有恩，众皆乐为用。
骑上下山如飞，材力绝人如此，数将习兵，未易当也。
translation: 
King Huainan asked: Is the Han Dynasty now stable or chaotic?
Wu was said: The world is safe and sound.
King Huainan said unhappily: "Why do you say that the world is stable?"
Wu Bei replied: I have privately observed that the relationship between the emperor and his ministers, father and son, husband and wife, elder and younger are all orderly and reasonable. Everything the emperor does follows the way of the ancient sage kings. The customs are honest and the rules and regulations are perfect.
Wealthy merchants traveled around the world carrying large amounts of goods in their vehicles. Roads were open to all directions and trade was very prosperous.
South Vietnam surrendered, Qiang and Fen paid tribute and became ministers, and Shu Ou entered the court to pay homage to the emperor. Expanding Changyusai and expanding Shuofang County, the Huns suffered setbacks and were severely weakened.
Although it cannot keep up with the peaceful and prosperous times of ancient times, it is still safe and sound.
The King of Huainan was furious, and Wu was apologized and even accused of "death penalty".
The King of Huainan asked again: If an uprising occurs in Shandong, the Han Dynasty will definitely send a general to lead troops to control Shandong. What kind of person do you think the general is?
Wu Bei said: My good friend Huang Yi once followed the general to conquer the Huns. He said that the general treated the scholar-bureaucrats with courtesy and cared about the soldiers, and people were willing to serve him.
He rode horses up and down the mountains, galloping as fast as flying. He had such extraordinary talents. He also led troops to fight many times. He was familiar with military affairs and was not easy to deal with.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
及谒者曹梁使长安来，言大将军号令明，当敌勇，常为士卒先；须士卒休，乃舍；穿井得水，乃敢饮；军罢，士卒已逾河，乃度。
皇太后所赐金钱，尽以赏赐。
虽古名将不过也。
王曰： 夫蓼太子知略不世出，非常人也，以为汉廷公卿列侯皆如沐猴而冠耳。
被曰： 独先刺大将军，乃可举事。
王复问被曰： 公以为吴举兵非邪？
被曰： 非也。
夫吴王赐号为刘氏祭酒，受几杖而不朝，王四郡之众，地方数千里，采山铜以为钱，煮海水以为盐，伐江陵之木以为船，国富民众，行珍宝，赂诸侯，与七国合从，举兵而西，破大梁，败狐父，奔走而还，为越所禽，死于丹徒，头足异处，身灭祀绝，为天下戮。
夫以吴众不能成功者，何也？
诚逆天违众而不见时也。
王曰： 男子之所死者，一言耳。
且吴何知反？
translation: 
In addition, the visitor Cao Liang came back from his mission to Chang'an and said that the general gave strict orders, fought bravely, and always took the lead. He only rested when the soldiers rested. He dared to drink only when he dug a well to get water. He stopped and returned to the division after the soldiers had already crossed the river, so he crossed the river himself.
He rewarded all the money given to him by the Empress Dowager to his subordinates.
Even the famous generals in ancient times are not stronger than him.
The King of Huainan said, "Prince Liao is a man of extraordinary resourcefulness, unparalleled in the world, and incomparable to anyone else. He thinks that the ministers and princes of the Han Dynasty are just like a monkey wearing a hat, with nothing more than appearance."
Wu was told: Only by assassinating the general can we start an uprising.
The king of Huainan asked Wu Bei again: Do you think it is wrong for the state of Wu to raise an army?
Wu was said: That's not right.
The king of Wu was given the title of Liu Shi Jijiu, and was given a few sticks, so that he could meet the emperor without entering the court, and ruled the people of four counties. The land was thousands of miles in circumference, he mined ores from the mountains to smelt copper and cast money, boiled sea water to make salt, cut down the trees in Jiangling to build ships. To be captured by the Yue people, to die among Dantu, to be separated from one's body and family, and to perish the country is a great punishment.
Why is it that Wu's troops cannot succeed in trying to conquer the masses?
In fact, it is because it goes against the will of God, the people's will and is not at the right time.
The King of Huainan said: Once a man says something, he will have no regrets even if he dies.
Besides, how did Wu know how to rebel?


Chunk 11: 
original: 
汉将一日过成皋者四十余人。
今我令缓先要成皋之口，周被下颍川兵塞轘辕、伊阙之道，陈定发南阳兵守武关，河南太守独有雒阳耳，何足忧？
然此北尚有临晋关、河东、上党与河内、赵国界者通谷数行。
人言 绝成皋之道，天下不通 。
据三川之险，招天下之兵，公以为何如？
被曰： 臣见其祸，未见其福也。
后汉逮淮南王孙建，系治之。
王恐阴事泄，谓被曰： 事至，吾欲遂发。
天下劳苦有间矣，诸侯颇有失行，皆自疑，我举兵西乡，必有应者；无应，即还略衡山。
势不得不发。
被曰： 略衡山以击庐江，有寻阳之船，守下雉之城，结九江之浦，绝豫章之口，强弩临江而守，以禁南郡之下，东保会稽，南通劲越，屈强江、淮间，可以延岁月之寿耳，未见其福也。
王曰： 左吴、赵贤、朱骄如皆以为什八九成，公独以为无福，何？
被曰： 大王之群臣近幸素能使众者，皆前系诏狱，余无可用者。
王曰： 陈胜、吴广无立锥之地，百人之聚，起于大泽，奋臂大呼，天下响应，西至于戏而兵百二十万。
今吾国虽小，胜兵可得二十万，公何以言有祸无福？
被曰： 臣不敢避子胥之诛，愿大王无为吴王之听。
translation: 
More than forty generals of the Han Dynasty passed through Chenggao in one day.
Now I send Xu Xian to guard Chenggao Kou, Zhou is sent to Yingchuan County's army to block the passage of Nanyuan and Yique, and Chen Ding is sent to Nanyang County's army to guard Wuguan. The governor of Henan County can only control Luoyang, so what is there to worry about?
However, north of here there are several valleys at the junction of Linjin Pass, Hedong County, Shangdang County, Hanoi County and Zhao State that can be passed.
People say that if you cut off the Chenggao channel, you will cut off the world.
I want to occupy the strategic location of Sanchuan and recruit the best soldiers from all over the world. What do you think?
Wu Bei said: I only see the disaster of doing this, but not the blessing.
Later, the Han Dynasty arrested Liu Jian, the grandson of King Huainan, and imprisoned him for interrogation.
The King of Huainan was afraid that the conspiracy would be leaked, so he said to Wu Sui: The matter is now over, I will take the opportunity to send troops.
The people of the world have worked hard for a long time, and the princes have made many mistakes, and they are all uneasy. If I lead my troops to the west, there will definitely be people who respond to me; if there is no response, I will turn back and attack the Hengshan Kingdom.
Forced by the situation, I had to raise an army.
Wu Bei said: He captured the Hengshan Kingdom and attacked Lujiang County, seized the ships in Xunyang County, defended Xiaji City, stationed troops on the bank of Jiujiang River, cut off the entrance to Yuzhang, set up powerful crossbows along the river to prevent Nanjun from sending troops, tied up the front to protect the Kuaiji Department, made friends with the powerful Yue State in the south, and resisted by danger between the Jiang and Huaihe Rivers. He was able to hold on for a year and a half, but saw no good results.
The King of Huainan said: Zuo Wu, Tang Xian, and Zhu Jiaoru all think that there is a probability of success, but you are the only one who thinks that the result is not good. Why?
Wu Bei said: Your Majesty, those of your trusted ministers who are usually able to command the troops have been ordered to be imprisoned by the emperor, and the rest are of no use.
The King of Huainan said: Chen Sheng and Wu Guang had no place to stand, so a crowd of a hundred people rose up in Daze Township. They raised their arms and shouted, and the world responded. When they marched west to Xi, there were 1.2 million soldiers.
Although my country is small now, there are only 200,000 people who can join the army to fight. Why do you think it will be a disaster but not a blessing for me to join the army?
Wu Bei said: I dare not escape Wu Zixu's execution for his loyalty. I hope your Majesty will not listen to the slander like King Wu did.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
往者秦为无道，残贼天下，杀术士，燔《诗》、《书》，灭圣迹，弃礼义，任刑法，转海濒之粟，致于西河。
当是之时，男子疾耕不足于粮馈，女子纺绩不足于盖形。
遣蒙恬筑长城，东西数千里。
暴兵露师，常数十万，死者不可胜数，僵尸满野，流血千里。
于是百姓力屈，欲为乱者十室而五。
又使徐福入海求仙药，多赍珍宝，童男女三千人，五种百工而行。
徐福得平原大泽，止王不来。
于是百姓悲痛愁思，欲为乱者十室而六。
又使尉佗逾五岭，攻百越，尉佗知中国劳极，止王南越。
行者不还，往者莫返，于是百姓离心瓦解，欲为乱者十室而七。
兴万乘之驾，作阿房之宫，收太半之赋，发闾左之戍。
父不宁子，兄不安弟，政苛刑惨，民皆引领而望，倾耳而听，悲号仰天，叩心怨上，欲为乱者，十室而八。
translation: 
In the past, the Qin Dynasty was immoral and harmed the world. It killed Confucian scholars, burned "Poems" and "Books", destroyed the achievements of saints, abandoned etiquette and justice, dedicated punishments, and transferred the grain from the coastal areas to the Xihe River.
At that time, men's hard work in farming was not enough to provide military food, and women's hard work in weaving was not enough to make clothes.
Meng Tian was sent to build the Great Wall, which stretched thousands of miles from east to west.
Hundreds of thousands of soldiers often camped out in the open air. Countless people died in battle or were tortured to death. Their corpses were strewn across the fields and blood was shed for thousands of miles.
At this time, the people were exhausted, and five out of ten families wanted to cause chaos.
He also sent Xu Fu into the sea to seek elixir, and set out with a large amount of treasures, three thousand boys and girls, grain seeds and various craftsmen.
Xu Fu found a place with flat terrain and abundant water, where he proclaimed himself king and established his country, never to return.
At this time, the people missed their relatives and were heartbroken. Six out of ten families wanted to cause chaos.
He also sent Wei Tuo to cross the Five Ridges and attack Baiyue. Wei Tuo knew that the Central Plains region was miserable, so he stayed in South Vietnam and became king.
Those who went out did not come back, the people were distraught and disintegrated, and one of the ten families wanted to cause chaos.
He led thousands of chariots and horses around the world, built the Epang Palace, levied heavy taxes, and sent poor people to guard the borders.
The father cannot protect his son, the elder brother cannot protect his younger brother, the decrees are harsh, the punishments are cruel, the people stretch their necks to look into the distance, listen attentively, look up to the sky and lament, beat their breasts and resent the monarch, and eight out of ten families want to cause chaos.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
客谓高皇帝曰： 时可矣。
高帝曰： 待之，圣人当起东南。
间不一岁，陈、吴大呼，刘、项并和，天下响应，所谓蹈瑕衅，因秦之亡时而动，百姓愿之，若枯旱之望雨，故起于行阵之中，以成帝王之功。
今大王见高祖得天下之易也，独不观近世之吴、楚乎！
当今陛下临制天下，一齐海内，泛爱蒸庶，布德施惠。口虽未言，声疾雷震；今虽未出，化驰如神。
心有所怀，威动千里；下之应上，犹景响也。
而大将军材能非直章邯、杨熊也。
王以陈胜、吴广论之，被以为过矣。
且大王之兵众不能什分吴、楚之一，天下安宁又万倍于秦时。
愿王用臣之计。臣闻箕子过故国而悲，作《麦秀》之歌，痛纣之不用王子比干之言也。
故孟子曰，纣贵为天子，死曾不如匹夫。
是纣先自绝久矣，非死之日天去之也。
今臣亦窃悲大王弃千乘之君，将赐绝命之书，为群臣先，身死于东宫也。
被因流涕而起。
translation: 
Someone said to Emperor Gaozu: The time has come.
Emperor Gaozu said: Wait a moment, the saints should rise in the southeast.
In less than a year, Chen Sheng and Wu Guangda shouted, Liu Bang and Xiang Yu agreed, and the world responded. This means that they took advantage of the gap between Qin and moved when Qin was about to fall.
Now you only see that Emperor Gaozu conquered the world; is it easy to see that you have not seen the results of the Wu and Chu rebellions in modern times?
Today, the emperor rules the world, regulates the country's political orders, loves all living beings, and extends kindness. Although his mouth has not spoken, his reputation is as thunderous; although his orders have not been issued, his teachings are as fast as divine help.
The power of a thought in the heart can shake thousands of miles away; the people's approval of the emperor is like a shadow following the shape and a sound responding to the sound.
The general's talents are incomparable to those of Zhang Han and Yang Xiong.
I think it is wrong for your Majesty to cite the examples of Chen Sheng and Wu Guang.
Moreover, Your Majesty's army is less than one-tenth of the armies of Wu and Chu, and the world is ten thousand times more peaceful than it was during the Qin Dynasty. I hope you take my advice.
I heard that Jizi felt sad when he passed through the capital of his motherland, so he composed the song "Maixiu", feeling sad that King Zhou of Shang Dynasty did not trust Prince Bigan's advice.
Therefore, Mencius said that King Zhou was the emperor, but when he died, he was not as good as a common man.
This means that Zhou had already exterminated himself from the world, and it did not mean that God did not bless him when he was dying.
Now I am also secretly sad that you, the king, have abandoned the throne with thousands of chariots. The emperor will give you the book of death and let you die in Shu palace before the other ministers.
Wu Gui then stood up with tears streaming down his face.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
后王复召问被： 苟如公言，不可以缴幸邪？
被曰： 必不得已，被有愚计。
王曰： 奈何？
被曰： 当今诸侯无异心，百姓无怨气。
朔方之郡土地广美，民徙者不足以实其地。
可为丞相、御史请书，徙郡国豪桀及耐罪以上，以赦令除，家产五十万以上者，皆徙其家属朔方之郡，益发甲卒，急其会日。
又伪为左右都司空、上林中都官诏狱书，逮诸侯太子及幸臣。
如此，则民怨，诸侯惧，即使辩士随而说之，党可以徼幸。
王曰： 此可也。虽然，吾以不至若此，专发而已。
后事发觉，被诣吏自告与淮南王谋反踪迹如此。
天子以伍被雅辞多引汉美，欲勿诛。
张汤进曰： 被首为王画反计，罪无赦。
遂诛被。
江充字次倩，赵国邯郸人也。
translation: 
Later, the King of Huainan summoned Wu Yuan again and asked: If it is like what you said, can't it be achieved by luck?
Wu Bei said: If you really have to, I have a stupid plan.
The king of Huainan asked: What's the plan?
Wu Bei said: Now the princes have the same attitude towards the imperial court, and the people have no resentment towards the imperial court.
The land of Shuofang County is vast and fertile, and the people who moved there are not enough to enrich the land.
You can forge documents from the prime minister and censor, requesting that the strong, powerful, and pardoned prisoners of the country, as well as those with a fortune of more than 500,000 yuan, move their families to Shuofang County, and send many soldiers to urge them to move as scheduled.
He also forged the emperor's edict ordering Sikong from the left and right capitals and the officials from Shanglin and Zhongdu to arrest criminals, and arrested the princes, princes and their favored ministers.
In this way, the people will be resentful and the princes will be afraid. Then they will send debaters to persuade the princes to rebel, and they may be lucky enough to succeed.
The King of Huainan said: It is feasible to do this. However, I don’t think it will go to this point, as long as I send troops directly.
Later, the rebellion was discovered by the court, and Wu Fei surrendered to the government and confessed that he had rebelled against the King of Huainan.
The emperor thought that Wu Ban always praised the beauty of the Han Dynasty and wanted not to kill him.
Zhang Tangjin said: Wu Ban first planned a rebellion for the King of Huainan. His crime was so heinous that it cannot be pardoned.
Wu Ban was finally killed.
Jiang Chong, courtesy name Ciqian, was a native of Handan, Tongguo.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
充本名齐，有女弟善鼓琴歌舞，嫁之赵太子丹。
齐得幸于敬肃王，为上客。
久之，太子疑齐以己阴私告王，与齐忤，使吏逐捕齐，不得，收系其父兄，按验，皆弃市。
齐遂绝迹亡，西人关，更名充。诣阙告太子丹与同产姊及王后宫奸乱，交通郡国豪猾，攻剽为奸，吏不能禁。
书奏，天子怒，遣使者诏郡发吏卒围赵王宫，收捕太子丹，移系魏郡诏狱，与廷尉杂治，法至死。
赵王彭祖，帝异母兄也，上书讼太子罪，言 充逋逃小臣，苟为奸讹，激怒圣朝，欲取必于万乘以复私怨。后虽亨醢，计犹不悔。
臣愿选从赵国勇敢士，从军击匈奴，极尽死力，以赎丹罪。
上不许，竟败赵太子。
初，充召见犬台宫，自请愿以所常被服冠见上。
上许之。充衣纱縠禅衣，曲裾后垂交输，冠禅纚步摇冠，飞翮之缨。
充为人魁岸，容貌甚壮。帝望见而异之，谓左右曰： 燕、赵固多奇士。
既至前，问以当世政事，上说之。
充因自请，愿使匈奴。
诏问其状，充对曰： 因变制宜，以敌为师，事不可豫图。
上以充为谒者使匈奴，还，拜为直指绣衣使者，督三辅盗贼，禁察逾侈。
translation: 
Jiang Chong's real name was Jiang Qi. He had a younger sister who was good at playing the piano and dancing and married Prince Liu Dan.
Jiang Qi was favored by King Zhao Jingsu and Liu Pengzu and became his first-class guest.
After a long time, Prince Liu Dan suspected that Jiang Qi had told the king of his secrets, so he fell out with Jiang Qi and sent officials to hunt down Jiang Qi. When they didn't catch him, he arrested his father and brother, interrogated them, and beheaded them all in public.
Jiang Qi then fled in hiding, entered Guanzhong in the west, changed his name to Jiang Chong, and went to the palace to report that the crown prince Liu Dan had committed adultery and incest with his half-sister and the concubines of King Zhao.
The emperor was furious and sent a messenger to order the county to dispatch officers and soldiers to surround the palace of King Zhao, arrest the prince Liu Dan, and transfer him to the prison of Wei County under Shao's order. He was tried together with the Tingwei, and Liu Dan was sentenced to death according to law.
King Zhao Liu Pengzu was the half-brother of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty. He wrote a letter to file a lawsuit for the crown prince Liu Dan, saying: Jiang Chong is a fugitive minister who deliberately fabricates lies to anger the Ming Dynasty to ensure that the emperor believes in him, so as to avenge personal grudges. Even if he is sentenced to be cooked or minced in the future, he will have no regrets.
I am willing to select brave men from Zhao who dare to die, join the army with them to attack the Xiongnu, and die as hard as I can, in order to atone for Liu Dan's sins.
Emperor Wu disagreed and finally deposed Prince Zhao.
At first, Jiang Chong was summoned to Quan Tai Palace, and he requested to see the emperor in his usual clothes.
Emperor Wu agreed, and Jiang Chong wore a gauze-shell Zen robe with a curved train that hung back like a swallow's tail. He wore a Zen tassel on his head and a waving crown with bird feathers as a tassel.
Jiang Chong was tall and handsome, and Emperor Wu was surprised to see him. He said to the people around him: "Yan and Chang are many talented people."
Jiang Chong had already come to Emperor Wu. Emperor Wu asked him about the political affairs of the country at that time and was very satisfied with him.
Jiang Chong then voluntarily requested to be sent as an envoy to the Xiongnu.
Emperor Wu sent a letter to Shao Shu asking about the strategy of the envoy. Jiang Chong replied: It is necessary to adapt to changes and adapt to circumstances, not to plan in advance.
Emperor Wu appointed Jiang Chong as his visitor. After Jiang Chong came back from his mission to the Xiongnu, he was appointed as the envoy of Zhizhi Xiuyi, supervising the thieves in the Sanfu area and prohibiting the powerful and wealthy from excessive luxury and going beyond the system.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
贵戚近臣多奢僣，充皆举劾，奏请没入车马，令身待北军击匈奴。
奏可。
充即移书光禄勋、中黄门，逮名近臣侍中诸当诣北军者，移劾门卫，禁止无令得出入宫殿。
于是贵戚子弟惶恐，皆见上叩头求哀，愿得入钱赎罪。
上许之，令各以秩次输钱北军，凡数千万。
上以充忠直，奉法不阿，所言中意。
充出，逢馆陶长公主行驰道中。充呵问之，公主曰： 有太后诏。
充曰： 独公主得行，车骑皆不得。
尽劾没入宫。
后充从上甘泉，逢太子家使乘车马行驰道中，充以属吏。
太子闻之，使人谢充曰： 非爱车马，诚不欲令上闻之，以教敕亡素者。
唯江君宽之！
充不听，遂白奏。
上曰： 人臣当如是矣。
translation: 
Many of the noble relatives and the emperor's ministers were extravagant and violated the system. Jiang Chong reported and impeached them, and wrote a letter requesting that their carriages and horses be confiscated and put on standby in the Northern Army to prepare for the attack on the Huns.
Emperor Wu approved his suggestion.
Jiang Chong immediately sent a document to Guang Luxunzhong Huangmen, ordering the arrest of ministers, servants and other officials who should be sent to the Northern Army. He also forwarded the impeachment document to the guard and prohibited the impeached people from entering or exiting the palace.
So the sons of these dignitaries and relatives were very frightened, and they all went to see the emperor, kowtowed and begged for mercy, and were willing to pay money to atone for their sins.
Emperor Wu agreed to their request and ordered them to hand over the money to the Northern Army according to their official levels, totaling tens of millions of dollars.
Emperor Wu believed that Jiang Chong was loyal and upright, and enforced the law without favoritism, and was very satisfied with his suggestions.
When Jiang Chong came out for inspection, he met Princess Guantao riding a car on Chidao. Jiang Chong stopped her and asked why. The princess said: "I am allowed to walk on Chidao under the order of the Queen Mother."
Jiang Chong said: "Only the princess is allowed to walk on the horse road, and the accompanying carriages and horses are not allowed to pass."
All the accompanying carriages and horses were reported and confiscated.
Later, Jiang Chong followed Emperor Wu to Ganquan Palace. When he saw the envoy sent by the prince to greet the emperor in a carriage walking on the road, Jiang Chong detained the envoy.
When the prince heard about this, he sent someone to apologize to Jiang Chong and said: It's not that I begrudge the carriages and horses, but I really don't want the emperor to hear about this, thinking that I usually don't discipline my subordinates.
I hope Mr. Jiang can forgive this.
Jiang Chong refused to listen and finally reported to Emperor Wu.
Emperor Wu said: This is what ministers should do.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
大见信用，威震京师。
迁为水衡都尉，宗族、知友多得其力者。
久之，坐法免。
会阳陵朱安世告丞相公孙贺子太仆敬声为巫蛊事，连及阳石、诸邑公主，贺父子皆坐诛。
语在《贺传》。
后上幸甘泉，疾病，充见上年老，恐晏驾后为太子所诛，因是为奸，奏言上疾祟在巫蛊。
于是上以充为使者治巫蛊。
充将胡巫掘地求偶人，捕蛊及夜祠，视鬼，染污令有处，辄收捕验治，烧铁钳灼，强服之。
民转相诬以巫蛊，吏辄劾以大逆亡道，坐而死者前后数万人。
是时，上春秋高，疑左右皆为蛊祝诅，有与亡，莫敢讼其冤者。
充既知上意，因言宫中有蛊气，先治后宫希幸夫人，以次及皇后，遂掘蛊于太子宫，得桐木人。
太子惧，不能自明，收充，自临斩之。
骂曰 赵虏！
translation: 
As a result, Jiang Chong gained great credibility and became a powerful figure in the capital.
Jiang Chong was promoted to Captain Shuiheng, and many of his family and friends received help from him.
After a long time, he was dismissed from office because of his crime.
It happened that Zhu Anshi of Yangling reported that Prime Minister Gongsun He's son and Grand Servant Gongsun Jingsheng had cursed the emperor with witchcraft, which implicated Princess Yangshi and the princesses of Zhuyi. Gongsun He and his son were killed as a result.
See "The Biography of Gongsun He" for details.
Later, Emperor Wu visited Ganquan Palace and fell ill. Jiang Chong saw that Emperor Wu was old and was afraid that he would be killed by the prince after his death, so he took the opportunity to cause trouble and wrote a letter saying that the emperor was ill because someone was practicing witchcraft.
So Emperor Wu appointed Jiang Chong as an envoy to investigate and deal with those who practiced witchcraft.
Jiang Chong directed the Hu wizards to dig in the ground everywhere, looking for puppets, and arresting those who engaged in witchcraft and night-time ritual curses. Let the Hu wizards observe the places contaminated by ghosts, mark them, dig out the puppets, arrest the people in the package, torture them, heat the iron, roast the interrogated person, and force him to confess.
The common people turned around and falsely accused each other, and the officials convicted the falsely accused of treason and injustice. As a result, tens of thousands of people were killed before and after.
At that time, Emperor Wu was already old and suspected that everyone around him was practicing witchcraft to curse him. No matter whether he was guilty of this crime or not, no one dared to file a lawsuit.
Jiang Chong had already understood the emperor's thoughts and took the opportunity to say that there was a witchcraft spirit in the palace. He first investigated the wives in the harem who were not favored by the emperor, and then in turn got the queen's head. Finally, he dug out the witchcraft in the palace and obtained the Tongmu Ren.
The prince was very frightened and could not explain to the emperor himself, so he arrested Jiang Chong and personally supervised and executed him.
He scolded: You are a slave of the country!


Chunk 18: 
original: 
乱乃国王父子不足邪！
乃复乱吾父子也！
太子繇是遂败。
语在《戾园传》。
后武帝知充有诈，夷充三族。
息夫躬字子微，河内河阳人也。
少为博士弟子，受《春秋》，通览记书。
容貌壮丽，为众所异。
哀帝初即位，皇后父特进孔乡侯傅晏与躬同郡，相友善，躬繇是以为援，交游日广。
先是，长安孙宠亦以游说显名，免汝南太守，与躬相结，俱上书，召待诏。
是时哀帝被疾，始即位，而人有告中山孝王太后祝诅上，太后及弟宜乡侯冯参皆自杀，其罪不明。
是后无盐危山有石自立，开道。
躬与宠谋曰： 上亡继嗣，体久不平，关东诸侯，心争阴谋。
translation: 
Isn't it enough to disturb your king and his son?
Come to disturb our father and son again!
The prince was finally defeated because of this.
For details, see "The Biography of Prince Ru."
Later, Emperor Wu found out that Jiang Chong was responsible, so he annihilated his three clans.
Xifu Gong, whose courtesy name is Ziwei, is from Heyang County, Hanoi County.
When he was young, he was a doctoral student, studied "Spring and Autumn", and read biographies and books of hundreds of schools of thought.
His majestic appearance made everyone feel strange.
When Emperor Ai first came to the throne, the queen's father, Fu Yan, the Marquis of Kongxiang, and Xifu Gong were from the same county. They had a good relationship. Therefore, through Fu Yan's introduction, Xifu Gong's circle of friends became wider and wider.
Before this, Sun Chong of Chang'an was also known for his good lobbying skills. He was dismissed when he was the governor of Runan County. He made friends with Xi Fu Gong, and they both submitted letters at the same time and were recruited to obey the emperor's orders.
At that time, Emperor Ai was ill and had just ascended the throne. Someone reported that the Queen Mother of King Xiao of Zhongshan had cursed the emperor with witchcraft. The Queen Mother and her brother Feng Shen, the Marquis of Yixiang, committed suicide, but their charges have not yet been found out.
After that, a large boulder stood up automatically on the dangerous mountain in Wuyan County, and a passage emerged.
Xifu Gong and Sun Chong planned and said: The emperor has no son to be his heir, and he is ill for a long time. The princes of Guandong are all trying to compete for the throne.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
今无盐有大石自立，闻邪臣托往事，以为大山石立而先帝龙兴。
东平王云以故与其后日夜祠祭祝诅上，欲求非望。
而后舅伍宏反因方术以医技得幸，出入禁门。
霍显之谋将行于杯杓，荆轲之变必起于帷幄。
事势若此，告之必成；发国奸，诛主雠，取封侯之计也。
躬、宠乃与中郎右师谭，共因中常侍宋弘上变事告焉。
上恶之，下有司案验，东平王云、云后谒及伍宏等皆坐诛。
上擢宠为南阳太守，谭颍川都尉，弘、躬皆光禄大夫、左曹、给事中。
是时，侍中董贤爱幸，上欲侯之，遂下诏云： 躬、宠因贤以闻，封贤为高安侯，宠为方阳侯，躬为宜陵侯，食邑各千户。
赐谭爵关内侯，食邑。
丞相王嘉内疑东平狱事，争不欲侯贤等，语在《嘉传》。
嘉固言董贤泰盛，宠、躬皆倾覆有佞邪材，恐必挠乱国家，不可任用。
嘉以此得罪矣。
躬既亲近，数进见言事，论议亡所避。
众畏其口，见之仄目。
躬上疏历诋公卿大臣，曰： 方今丞相王嘉健而蓄缩，不可用。
御史大夫贾延堕弱不任职。
左将军公孙禄、司隶鲍宣皆外有直项之名，内实騃不晓政事。
诸曹以下仆脩不足数。
translation: 
Nowadays, there are big rocks standing up on their own in Wuyan County. I heard that those evil ministers relied on past events and thought that there were big rocks standing up on their own when Emperor Xuan rose up among the people.
Therefore, Shuping King Liu Yun and his queen worshiped and cursed the emperor day and night, hoping to obtain the throne.
On the contrary, Wu Hong, the queen's uncle, was favored by the emperor because of his knowledge of alchemy and ability to cure diseases, and was allowed to enter and exit the forbidden gates of the palace.
Huo Xian's conspiracy will be carried out on the medicine cup and spoon, and Jing Ke's incident will definitely happen on the emperor's curtain.
The situation is so dangerous that the whistleblower will definitely succeed. Exposing the country's treacherous officials and killing the emperor's enemies is a clever way to gain a title.
Xifu Gong, Sun Chong and Tan, the right master of the Zhonglang, reported to the court through Song Hong, the official of the Zhongchang, about King Dongping's rebellion.
Emperor Ai was very angry and handed the case to the relevant departments for investigation. King Shuping Liu Yun, Liu Yun's queen Ye and Wu Hong were all killed for the crime.
Emperor Ai promoted Sun Chong to be the prefect of Nanyang County, Tan, the right master, to be the captain of Yingchuan County, and Song Hong and Xifu Gong were both appointed to the post of Zuo Cao, the official of Guanglu.
At that time, Dong Xian, the servant, was very favored by the emperor. The emperor wanted to make him a marquis, so he issued an edict saying: Xifu Gong and Sun Chong reported the conspiracy through Dong Xian. Now Dong Xian is made Marquis of Gao'an, Sun Chong is Marquis of Fangyang, and Xifu Gong is Marquis of Yiling. Each of them has a thousand households.
The right master was given the title of Marquis Tan Guannei and was given the title of food town.
Prime Minister Wang Jiaxin suspected that King Shuping's case was untrue and wrote a letter to argue, not wanting to make Dong Xian and others marquises. For details, see "Biography of Wang Jia".
Wang Jia insisted that Dong Xian was too noble, and that Sun Chong and Xi Fu Gong were both insidious, treacherous, and had flattering and evil talents. They would definitely endanger the country and should not be appointed.
Wang Jia was convicted for this.
Since Xifu Gong was close to the emperor, he went to see him many times to discuss political affairs, pointing out gains and losses without any evasion.
People are afraid of being impeached by him and dare not face him when they meet him.
Xifu wrote a letter and falsely accused the ministers one by one, saying: The current Prime Minister Wang Jia is strong and impatient and cannot be appointed.
Jia Yan, the imperial censor, was cowardly and incompetent.
General Gongsun Lu, the general of the left, and Bao Xuan, the captain of the Sili school, both had false reputations for being upright, but in fact they were dull and unfamiliar with political affairs.
Officials below Cao Cao are mediocre and not worth mentioning.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
卒有强弩围城，长戟指阙，陛下谁与备之？
如使狂夫嘄謼于东崖，匈奴饮马于渭水，边竟雷动，四野风起，京师虽有武蜂精兵，未有能窥左足而先应者也。
军书交驰而辐凑，羽檄重迹而押至，小夫忄耎臣之徒愦眊不知所为。
其有犬马之决者，仰药而伏刃，虽加夷灭之诛，何益祸败之至哉！
躬又言： 秦开郑国渠以富国强兵，今京师土地肥饶，可度地势水泉，广溉灌之利。
天子使躬持节领护三辅都水。
躬立表，欲穿长安城，引漕注太仓下以省转输。
议不可成，乃止。
董贤贵幸日盛，丁、傅害其宠，孔乡侯晏与躬谋，欲求居位辅政。
会单于当来朝，遣使言病，愿朝明年。
translation: 
If suddenly a powerful crossbow besieges the city, and a sharp halberd is pointed at the palace, who will you and your majesty take to guard against it?
If the mob howls in the east, the Huns drink their horses in the Wei River, the borders are in danger, and the world is in turmoil, no matter how brave the soldiers and sophisticated weapons are in the capital, no one can take the lead in facing the enemy.
Military documents were passed quickly and gathered in the capital, and urgent messages were passed to the court one after another. The mediocre ministers and cowardly people would be distracted and at a loss.
Anyone who has the slightest bit of decision-making will take the blame and commit suicide. Even if his relatives are wiped out, what use will it have in relieving the crisis?
Xifu Gong added: Qin opened the Zhengguo Canal and enriched the country and strengthened the army. The land in the capital area is now fertile. Water conservancy can be built and the irrigation area can be expanded according to the terrain and water source conditions.
The emperor sent Xifu Gong to carry the talisman and manage the three assistants in the water.
Xifugong suggested that the city wall of Chang'an should be dug through and the canal should be opened near Taicang to reduce the labor of transshipment.
The ministers discussed it and thought it was not feasible, so they gave up.
Dong Xian said that he was favored by the emperor, and the relatives of the Ding family and the Fu family were very jealous. Fu Yan, the Marquis of Kongxiang, and Xifu Gong planned to assist the government and take power.
Just as Chanyu was supposed to come to pay homage to the emperor, Chanyu sent an envoy to tell him that Chanyu was ill and wanted to go to court to see the emperor the next year.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
躬因是而上奏，以为 单于当以十一月入塞，后以病为解，疑有他变。
乌孙两昆弥弱，卑爰疐强盛，居强煌之地，拥十万之众，东结单于，遣子往侍。
如因素强之威，循乌孙就屠之迹，举兵南伐，并乌孙之势也。
乌孙并，则匈奴盛，而西域危矣。
可令降胡诈为卑爰疐使者来上书曰： 所以遣子侍单于者，非亲信之也，实畏之耳。
唯天子哀，告单于归臣侍子。愿助戊己校尉保恶都奴之界。
因下其章诸将军，令匈奴客闻焉。
则是所谓 上兵伐谋，其次伐交 者也。
书奏，上引见躬，召公卿将军大议。
左将军公孙禄以为 中国常以威信怀伏夷狄，躬欲逆诈造不信之谋，不可许。
且匈奴赖先帝之德，保塞称蕃。
今单于以疾病不任奉朝贺，遣使自陈，不失臣子之礼。
臣禄自保没身不见匈奴为边境忧也。
translation: 
Xifu Gong took the opportunity to write a letter, saying: Chanyu should enter the frontier fortress in November. Later, he used illness as an excuse. I suspect he had other intentions.
Wusun's two Kunmi were weak and incompetent, while Beiyuanqian was powerful, occupying Qianghuang and having a hundred thousand tribesmen. Dong colluded with Chanyu and sent his son to serve Shanyu.
If Bei Yuanting, relying on his always strong power, launches an expedition to the south according to the scope of rule of the late Wusun king when he was slaughtered, he will definitely annex Wusun.
If Wusun is annexed, the Xiongnu will be strong and the Western Region will be in danger.
You can let the surrendered Hu people pretend to be humble envoys and write to the emperor, saying: The reason why I sent my son to serve Shanzi is not because I am close to him or trust him, but because I am afraid of him.
I hope the emperor will be merciful and tell Shanyu to return my son, and I am willing to help Captain Wuji protect the borders of Edunu.
So he conveyed the content of this petition to the generals and let the Huns guests hear about it.
This is what is called. The best strategy for guiding war is to defeat the enemy's conspiracy, and the second is to defeat the enemy's diplomacy.
After this petition was submitted to the emperor, the emperor introduced Xifu Gong and summoned ministers and generals for extensive discussions.
Gongsun Lu, the general of the left, believed: The country of the Central Plains has always relied on prestige and trustworthiness to make the Yi Di surrender, but Xifu Gong wants to use dishonest and fraudulent means, which cannot be approved.
Moreover, the Xiongnu, thanks to the kindness of the late emperor, defended the frontier and surrendered.
Now the Chanyu is unable to worship and congratulate the emperor due to illness. He sends envoys to explain the situation without losing the etiquette of a courtier.
I guarantee that I will never see the Huns disturbing the border until my death.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
躬掎禄曰： 臣为国家计几先，谋将然，豫图未形，为万世虑。
而左将军公孙禄欲以其犬马齿保目所见。
臣与禄异议，未可同日语也。
上曰： 善。 乃罢群臣，独与躬议。
因建言： 往年荧惑守心，太白高而芒光，又角星茀于河鼓，其法为有兵乱。
是后讹言行诏筹，经历郡国，天下骚动，恐必有非常之变。
可遣大将军行边兵，敕武备，斩一郡守，以立威，震四夷，因以厌应变异。
上然之，以问丞相。
丞相嘉对曰： 臣闻动民以行不以言，应天以实不以文。
下民微细，犹不可诈，况于上天神明而可欺哉！
天之见异，所以敕戒人君，欲令觉悟反正，推诚行善。民心说而天意得矣。
辩士见一端，或妄以意傅著星历，虚造匈奴、乌孙、西羌之难，谋动干戈，设为权变，非应天之道也。
translation: 
Xifu Gong seized the topic and took the opportunity to retort: ​​"I plan secret things for the country to prevent troubles before they occur, prepare for future disasters, and take care of future generations."
But General Zuo Gongsun Lu wanted to use his dog-horse-like lifespan to guarantee temporary peace.
Gongsun Lu and I have different opinions and we simply cannot talk together. The emperor said: OK.
So he stopped the discussion with the ministers and discussed with Xifu Gong alone.
Xifugong then suggested to the emperor: In previous years, when the star Yinghuo entered the heart, the star Taibai was high and shining, and the star Spica was obscured by the star Hegu. According to the method of divination, this was a sign that a military disaster was about to occur.
From then on, the people spread rumors about the hemp stalks or straw called "Zhaochao", which passed through many counties and countries, causing the world to be in turmoil and fearing that unexpected events would inevitably occur.
You can send generals to inspect the troops guarding the border, reorganize the armaments, kill a county governor to establish prestige, and shock the surrounding Yi and Di tribes, so as to suppress the occurrence of abnormal situations.
The emperor thought what he said made sense, so he went to ask the prime minister.
Prime Minister Wang Jia replied: I heard that the way to move the people is action rather than empty talk, and the way to comply with God's will is to be real rather than flashy.
If you can't deceive the lowly and lowly people, how much more can you deceive the sage God?
God shows signs to warn people, to make them wake up, correct their mistakes, show sincerity, and implement benevolent policies. If the people are happy, it means they are complying with God's will.
When people who are able to argue see something, they often make random guesses, rely on astronomical calculations, fabricate lies out of thin air that the Xiongnu, Wusun and Xiqiang are about to cause rebellion, plot a major war, and devise methods to adapt to changes, instead of following the will of God.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
守相有罪，车驰诣阙，交臂就死，恐惧如此，而谈说者云，动安之危，辩口快耳，其实未可从。
夫议政者，苦其谄谀倾险辩慧深刻也。
谄谀则主德毁，倾险则下怨恨，辩慧则破正道，深刻则伤恩惠。
昔秦缪公不从百里奚、蹇叔之言，以败其师，悔过自责，疾诖误之臣，思黄发之言，名垂于后世。
唯陛下观览古戒，反复参考，无以先入之语为主。
上不听，遂下诏曰： 间者灾变不息，盗贼众多，兵革之征，或颇著见。未闻将军恻然深以为意，简练戎士，缮修干戈。
器用盬恶，孰当督之！
天下虽安，忘战必危。
translation: 
The governor of the county and the prime minister of the kingdom who committed crimes would rush to the court in a car and have their hands tied behind their backs to be executed. They were so frightened, but eloquent people talked like this, destroying the peace, creating dangers, and making the listeners happy with their rhetoric, but in fact they should not be believed.
When discussing state affairs, one should be afraid of flattery, insidiousness, cunningness of argumentation and harshness.
Flattery will damage the monarch's character, insidiousness and treachery will make the people resentful, being cunning and argumentative will undermine the right path, and being severe and mean will harm the monarch's favor.
In the past, Duke Mu of Qin did not listen to the advice of Baili Xi and Uncle Jian, resulting in a disastrous defeat for his army. He repented and blamed himself, hated the ministers who had harmed the country, and missed the old man's advice. Finally, his name will be remembered by future generations.
I hope that your Majesty, you will learn from the past and think again and again, and don't be unable to listen to other people's opinions just because someone has already discussed it before.
The emperor did not listen to Wang Jia's words, so he issued an edict saying: Recently, there have been constant natural disasters, bandits are rampant, and signs of war have begun to appear. However, he did not hear that the generals were deeply worried about this, so he selected and trained soldiers and repaired weapons.
If the utensils are not strong, who should go to prison?
Although the world is peaceful, neglecting to prepare for war will be dangerous.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
将军与中二千石举明习兵法有大虑者各一人，将军二人，诣公车。
就拜孔乡侯傅晏为大司马卫将军，阳安侯丁明又为大司马票骑将军。
是日，日有食之，董贤因此沮躬、晏之策。
后数日，收晏卫将军印绶，而丞相御史奏躬罪过。上繇是恶躬等，下诏曰： 南阳太守方阳侯宠，素亡廉声，有酷恶之资，毒流百姓。
左曹光禄大夫宜陵侯躬，虚造许谖之策，欲以诖误朝廷。
皆交游贵戚，趋权门，为名。
其免躬、宠官，遣就国。
躬归国，未有第宅，寄居丘亭。
奸人以为侯家富，常夜守之。
translation: 
Ask the general and Zhongerqianshi officials to each recommend a person who is proficient in the art of war and good at planning and two people who are qualified generals, and send them to the bus.
Recently, Fu Yan, the Marquis of Kongxiang, was appointed as the Great Sima Wei General, and Dingming, the Marquis of Yang'an, was appointed as the Great Sima Hussar General.
There was a solar eclipse that day, and Dong Xian took the opportunity to destroy Xi Fu Gong and Fu Yan's plan.
A few days later, the emperor took back the seal and ribbon of Fu Yan's general guard, and the prime minister and the imperial censor wrote a letter to report Xi Fugong's crimes. The emperor hated Xi Fugong and others, and issued an edict saying: Fang Yanghou Sun Chong, the governor of Nanyang County, has never had a reputation for integrity, but is cruel and vicious in nature, hurting the people.
Yilinghou Xifu Gong, the official of Zuo Cao Guanglu, fabricated deceptive and untrue stories in order to mislead the court.
Both of them made friends with the emperor's relatives and went to high-ranking officials and dignitaries to gain fame.
Xifu Gong and Sun Chong are now dismissed from their official positions and sent back to the feudal country.
When Xifu returned to his feudal state, he had no house or courtyard, so he lived in an empty pavilion.
The thieves thought that the Hou family was wealthy and often went to watch and spy on them at night.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
躬邑人河内掾贾惠往过躬，教以祝盗方，以桑东南指枝为匕，画北斗七星其上，躬夜自被发，立中庭，向北斗，持匕招指祝盗。
人有上书言躬怀怨恨，非笑朝廷所进，候星宿，视天子吉凶，与巫同祝诅。
上遣侍御史、廷尉监逮躬，系雒阳诏狱。
欲掠问，躬仰天大呼，因僵仆。
吏就问，云咽已绝，血从鼻耳出。食顷，死。
党友谋议相连下狱百余人。
躬母圣，坐祠灶祸诅上，大逆不道。圣弃市，妻充汉与家属徙合浦。
躬同族亲属素所厚者，皆免废锢。
哀帝崩，有司奏： 方阳侯宠及右师谭等，皆造作奸谋，罪及王者骨肉，虽蒙赦令，不宜处爵位，在中土。
皆免宠等，徙合浦郡。
初，躬待诏，数危言高论，自恐遭害，著绝命辞曰： 玄云泱郁，将安归兮！
translation: 
Xifu Gong's fellow townsman, Peng Maihui from Hanoi County, visited Xifu Gong and taught him how to beg the gods and gods to punish the thieves: use the mulberry branches growing in the southeast as a dagger, draw the pattern of the Big Dipper on it, and Xi Fu Gong himself would stand in the courtyard at night with his hair disheveled, facing the Big Dipper, holding the dagger and waving or pointing, in order to pray to the gods to bring disaster to the thieves.
Someone wrote a letter saying that Xifu Gong was resentful, criticized and ridiculed the people employed by the imperial court, observed the stars to predict the emperor's fortune, and cursed the emperor together with the wizards.
The emperor sent the imperial censor and the imperial eunuch to arrest Xifu Gong and imprison him in Luoyang prison with an imperial edict.
Just as he was about to be tortured and interrogated, Xifu bowed to the sky and shouted, falling to the ground.
The officials went to check and found that Xifu Gong had stopped shouting, blood flowed from his nose and ears, and he died soon after.
More than 100 of his close party members and friends participated in the conspiracy and were implicated and arrested.
Xifu Gong's mother, Sheng, was convicted of treason and unruly because she offered sacrifices to the Kitchen God and begged for disaster to be brought upon the emperor. She was beheaded in public display. Xifu Gong's wife, Chonghan, and her family were moved to Hepu County.
Among Xifu Gong's relatives who had a close relationship with him and received his care, they were all dismissed from office and banned from serving as officials for life.
After the death of Emperor Ai, officials from relevant departments wrote a memorial: Fang Yanghou Sun Chong, Youshi Tan and others conspired to fabricate charges against the emperor's clan, King Shuping. Although he was exempted from guilt by the pardon, he should not have a title and live in the Central Plains.
So Sun Chong and others were removed from their titles and moved to Hepu County.
When Xi Fu Gong was summoned to obey the emperor's orders, he made many outspoken comments. He was afraid that he would bring disaster, so he wrote his final words: Dark clouds are gathering, where will you go?


Chunk 26: 
original: 
鹰隼横厉，鸾徘徊兮！
矰若浮猋，动则机兮！丛棘扌戋々栈栈，曷可栖兮！
发忠忘身，自绕罔兮！
冤颈折翼，庸得往兮！
涕泣流兮萑兰，心结愲兮伤肝。
虹蜺曜兮日微，孽杳冥兮未开。
痛人天兮鸣呼，冤际绝兮谁语！
仰天光兮自列，招上帝兮我察。
秋风为我唫，浮云为我阴。
嗟若是兮欲何留，抚神龙兮其须。
游旷迥兮反亡期，雄失据兮世我思。 后数年乃死，如其文。
赞曰：仲尼 恶利口之覆邦家 ，蒯通一说而丧三俊，其得不亨者，幸也。
伍被安于危国，身为谋主，忠不终而诈雠，诛夷不亦宜乎！
《书》放四罪，《诗》歌《青蝇》，春秋以来，祸败多矣。
translation: 
The hawks and hawks flew sideways and the luan bird was frustrated.
The bamboo string flies like a strong wind. Once it is released, the luan bird's body will be in danger. How can we live in a place full of thorns?
He is loyal and has no regard for himself, but he falls into the trap in vain.
How can I leave with my neck bent and my wings broken?
We exchanged tears and tears continuously, feeling upset and sad.
The rainbow is bright but the sun is dim, and the evil spirit is dark but never disperses.
With heartache and grief, you fly into the sky and scream, to whom can you tell your grievances?
Look up at the moon and show your true heart, calling the sky to discern the right and wrong.
The autumn wind is meditative for me, and the floating clouds are gloomy for me.
What's the point of feeling nostalgic when faced with such a situation? I will ride the dragon, hold the dragon's beard in my hand, and fly far away, never to return.
When the monarch loses his support, he will miss me. A few years later, Xifu died, which was consistent with his final words.
Praise: Zhongni said that he hated eloquent people who harmed the country. Kuai Tong killed three heroes with just one mouthful. How lucky that he was not cooked to death!
Wu was in a country in turmoil. As the mastermind, he could not always be loyal, but he planned a deceitful strategy for the King of Huainan. Didn't he deserve to be killed?
There are records of the exile of four sinners in the Book of Books, and there is the poem "Blue Fly" in the Book of Songs. Since the Spring and Autumn Period, there have been too many disasters.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
昔子翚谋桓而鲁隐危，栾书构郤而晋厉弑。竖牛奔仲，叔孙卒；郈伯毁季，昭公逐；费忌纳女，楚建走；宰嚭谗胥，夫差丧；李园进妹，春申毙；上官诉屈，怀王执；赵高败斯，二世缢；伊戾坎盟，宋痤死；江充造蛊，太子杀；息夫作奸，东平诛；皆自小覆大，繇疏陷亲，可不惧哉！
可不惧哉！
translation: 
In the past, Ziyun plotted to kill Duke Huan of Lu, but Duke Yin of Lu was killed; Leshu framed the Shao family, and Duke Li of Jin was killed; Shuniu Zhong was driven away, and his uncle and grandson died; Qiu Bo slandered the Ji family, and Duke Zhao of Lu fled; Fei Ji married a Qin girl for King Ping of Chu, but Prince Jian fled; the prime minister slandered Wu Zixu, and Fu Chai perished; Li Yuan He sacrificed his sister, but Lord Chun Shen died; Shangguan Zilan framed Qu Yuan, and King Huai of Chu was captured by Qin; Chang Gao slandered Li Si, but Qin II was forced to hang himself; Yi Li forged a letter of alliance, but Song Cuo died; Jiang Chong created a witchcraft prison, and the prince committed suicide; Xifu Gong fabricated lies to deceive the monarch, and King Shu Ping was punished. These incidents are all caused by small things, causing big problems, and alienation harming relatives. How terrible!
How terrible!


