Chunk 0: 
original: 
凡天文在图籍昭昭可知者，经星常宿中外官凡百一十八名，积数七百八十三星，皆有州国官宫物类之象。
其伏见蚤晚，邪正存亡，虚实阔狭，及五星所行，合散犯守，陵历斗食，彗孛飞流，日月薄食，晕适背穴，抱珥虹蜺，迅雷风袄，怪云变气：此皆阴阳之精，其本在地，而上发于天者也。
政失于此，则变见于彼，犹景之象形，乡之应声。
是以明君睹之而寤，饬身正事，思其咎谢，则祸除而福至，自然之符也。
中宫天极星，其一明者，泰一之常居也，旁三星三公，或曰子属。
后句四星，末大星正妃，余三星后宫之属也。
环之匡卫十二星，籓臣。
皆曰紫宫。
前列直斗口三星，随北耑锐，若见若不见，曰阴德，或曰天一。
紫宫左三星曰天枪，右四星曰天棓。
后十七星绝汉抵营室，曰阁道。
北斗七星，所谓 旋、玑、玉衡，以齐七政 。杓携龙角，衡殷南斗，魁枕参首。
用昏建者杓；杓，自华以西南。
夜半建者衡；衡，殷中州河、济之间。
平旦建者魁；魁，海岱以东北也。
斗为帝车，运于中央，临制四海。
分阴阳，建四时，均五行，移节度，定诸记，皆系于斗。
斗魁戴筐六星，曰文昌宫：一曰上将，二曰次将，三曰贵相，四曰司命，五曰司禄，六曰司灾。
translation: 
Where astronomy is recorded in pictures and texts, it is clear that stars and stars that appear frequently have a total of 118 internal and external star officials in charge of them, with a total of 783 stars. They are all signs of states, countries, officials, palaces and things.
They may hide or appear, sooner or later, with or without regularity, or with the distance of movement, with or without reality, as well as the movements of the five stars that may be together or apart, or in conflict with or in opposition to each other, or infringe upon or cover each other, the appearance of comets, stars, flying stars, or meteors, or the sun and moon may be eclipsing each other or eclipsing each other. , the shape of the halo may be a heavy ring, a full ring, a half ring, or face away from the sun, or may be ear-shaped, or have neon changes, and phenomena such as thunder, fast wind, strange clouds, and changes in energy may appear. These are all manifestations of the essence of Yin and Yang. They are fundamentally born on the earth and are only expressed in celestial phenomena.
If the government fails here, it will appear there, just like the reason why a human figure resembles a human form, and the sound has a response.
Therefore, when a wise king sees these phenomena and understands them, he handles political affairs with caution, thinks about his faults and apologizes for his sins, then disasters will be eliminated and blessings will come. This is a signal given to us by nature.
The Tianji star in the middle palace, one of which is bright, is the residence of Taiyi, the Emperor of Heaven. The three stars next to it are the three princes of the Emperor of Heaven, or the sons of the Emperor of Heaven.
There are four stars arranged in a hook shape, the big star at the end is the concubine of the Emperor of Heaven, and the remaining three stars are the concubines of the Emperor of Heaven.
The twelve stars guarding the circle are the vassals of the Emperor of Heaven.
These all form the sky area called Purple Palace.
The three stars in the front row at the mouth of the fight, arranged in the north direction, with sharp tops, and looming stars are called Yin De and Tian Yi Xing.
The three stars on the left of the Purple Palace are called Heavenly Spear Stars, and the four stars on the right are called Heavenly Orange Stars.
The next seventeen stars travel straight across the Milky Way and arrive at Murojuku, which are called Gedaoxing.
The seven stars of the Big Dipper are the so-called Xuan, Ji, and Yuheng to determine the seven political affairs. The handle of the dipper is connected to the Spica, and the center of the dipper is the south dipper.
The first star of the Big Dipper is near the head of Betelgeuse. Observe the direction of the handle of the Big Dipper at dusk to determine the season. The handle mainly indicates the southwest of China.
When observing and judging the season at midnight, it is best to look at the Hengxing. The Hengxing mainly indicates the areas between the Central Plains, the Yellow River, and Jishui.
When observing to determine the season at dawn, the Kuixing star is the one that indicates the sea and the area northeast of Mount Tai.
The fighting star is the chariot of the Emperor of Heaven, traveling in the center of the sky and ruling over the world.
Dividing yin and yang, establishing the four seasons, regulating the five elements, changing the solar terms, and determining the calendar are all determined by the movement of the Big Dipper.
The basket-shaped six stars on the Dou Kui star are called Wenchang Palace. One star is called General, two stars are called Second General, three stars are called Noble Prime Minister, four stars are called Siming, five stars are called Si Lu, and six stars are called Si Ban.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
在魁中，贵人之牢。
魁下六星两两而比者，曰三能。
三能色齐，君臣和；不齐，为乖戾。
柄辅星，明近，辅臣亲强；斥小，疏弱。
杓端有两星：一内为矛，招摇；一外为盾，天蜂。
有名圜十五星，属杓，曰贱人之牢，牢中星实则囚多，虚则开出。
天一、枪？矛、盾动摇，角大，兵起。
东宫苍龙，房、心。
心为明堂，大星天王，前后星子属。不欲直，直，王失计。
房为天府，曰天驷。
其阴，右骖。旁有两星曰衿。
衿北一星曰辖。
东北曲十二星曰旗。
旗中四星曰天市。
天市中星众者实，其中虚则耗。
房南众星曰骑官。
左角，理；右角，将。
大角者，天王帝坐廷。
其两旁各有三星，鼎足句之，曰摄提。
摄提者，直斗杓所指，以建时节，故曰 摄提格 。
亢为宗庙，主疾。
其南北两大星，曰南门。
氐为天根，主疫。
尾为九子，曰君臣；斥绝，不和。
箕为敖客，后妃之府，曰口舌。
火犯守角，则有战。
房、心，王者恶之。
南宫朱鸟，权、衡。
衡、太微，三光之廷。
筐卫十二星，籓臣；西，将；东，相；南四星，执法；中，端门；左右，掖门。
掖门内六星，诸侯。
其内五星，五帝坐。
后聚十五星，曰哀乌郎位；旁一大星，将位也。
月、五星顺入，轨道，司其出，所守，天子所诛也。
其逆入，若不轨道，以所犯名之；中坐，成形，皆群下不从谋也。
translation: 
In the Doukui Star District, it is the prison for the nobles.
There are six stars and two adjacent stars under Dou Kuixing, which are called three-energy stars.
If the colors of the three energy stars are the same, the ruler and his ministers will be harmonious; if they are not the same, they will be surly.
The auxiliary star on the handle of the bucket is bright and close, which indicates that the auxiliary ministers are friendly and the court is strong and victorious; the star that is far away and small indicates that the monarch and his ministers are alienated and the national power is weak.
There are two stars at the end of the handle. The closer one is called the Spear Star and the Swaggering Star. The one in the distance is called the Shield Star and the Bee Star.
There are also fifteen stars connected in a hook shape, which belong to the handle of the bucket. They are said to indicate the prison of a bitch. If the stars in the prison are densely packed, there will be many prisoners, and if the stars are empty, there will be many liberations.
The Sky Star, the Spear Star, the Orange Star, the Spear Star, and the Shield Star are flashing. If the starlight has an angle and is large, then there is a war.
The Canglong in the East Palace belongs to the House and Heart.
The heart is the bright hall of the Emperor of Heaven, the big star is the Emperor of Heaven, and the stars before and after are the sons of the Emperor of Heaven. If you don't want the alignment to be straight, then the Emperor of Heaven will fail.
Fangsu is the Heavenly Mansion of the Emperor of Heaven, and the four stars in Fangsu are called Tiansi stars.
To the north is the right star, and next to it are two stars called Jin stars.
There is a star to the north of Jin star called Qian.
Hidden deep in the northeast are twelve stars called flag stars.
Four of the flag stars are called Tianshi.
If there are many stars in the star area of ​​the sky, the harvest will be good, and if there are no stars in the star area, the harvest will be poor.
The stars to the south of the house are called cavalry officers.
The star to the left of Spica is the judge of the Emperor of Heaven, and the star to the right of Spica is the general.
Arcturus is the court of the Emperor of Heaven.
There are three stars on each side of it, and the tripod stands connected with each other, which is called Sheti.
Sheti star, just in the direction of the bucket, can be used to determine the seasonal solar terms, so it is called Shetige.
Kangsu is the ancestral temple of the Emperor of Heaven, and it predicts diseases.
There are two big stars in the north and south of it, called the South Gate.
Di Su is the foundation of the Heavenly Palace, and it indicates epidemic diseases.
There are nine stars in Ojuku, which are the subjects of the Emperor of Heaven. They are far away, which indicates discord.
Jisu is a person of right and wrong in the heavenly court, and it indicates the residence of the concubine, which is called mouth and tongue.
If Mars invades Spica and remains there, it indicates war.
When Mars invades the house and heart and remains there, it is abhorrent to the king.
The red bird in the South Palace belongs to it. The Quan Xing and Heng Xing belong to it.
Hengxing, also called Taiweiyuan, is the south palace of the Emperor of Heaven. The five stars of the sun and moon enter this court.
Surrounded by twelve stars are the vassal officials. The west is the general; the east is the prime minister; the four stars in the south are law enforcement stars; the middle is the main gate of the heaven, and the left and right are the gates of the heaven.
There are six stars in Yemen area, which are the stars of princes.
The five stars within it are the Five Emperors constellation stars.
There are fifteen stars gathered behind it, which are called Aiwu. They occupy the Lang position in the Heavenly Court and are called Lang Wei stars.
The big star next to it is the general who occupies the heavenly court, and is called the general star. When the moon and five stars enter from west to east and move along their normal orbits, they must observe the star officials they leave and stay behind. The officials corresponding to them are the targets of punishment by the emperor.
If the moon and the five stars enter retrograde from east to west and do not move according to the normal rules, the corresponding officials will be convicted according to the violated star officials. If the throne of the Five Emperors is violated, disaster will occur, which is a sign that the subjects cannot obey.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
金、火尤甚。
廷籓西有随星四，名曰少微，士大夫。
权，轩辕，黄龙体。
前大星，女主象；旁小星，御者后宫属。
月、五星守犯者，如衡占。
东井为水事。
火入之，一星居其左右，天子且以火为败，东井西曲星曰戊；北，北河；南，南河；两河、天阙间为关梁。
舆鬼，鬼祠事；中白者为质。
为守南北河，兵起，谷不登。
故德成衡，观成潢，伤成戊，祸成井，诛成质。
柳为鸟喙，主木草。
七星，颈，为员宫，主急事。
张，嗉，为厨，主觞客。
翼为羽翮，主远客。
轸为车，主风。
其旁有一小星，曰长沙，星星不欲明；明与四星等，若五星入轸中，兵大起。
轸南众星曰天库，库有五车。
车星角，若益众，及不具，亡处车马。
西宫咸池，曰天五潢。
五潢，五帝车舍。
火入，旱；金，兵；水，水。
中有三柱；柱不具，兵起。
奎曰封豨，为沟渎。
娄为聚众。
胃为天仓。
其南众星曰廥积。
昂曰旄头，胡星也。为白衣会。
毕曰䍐车，为边兵，主弋猎。
其大星旁小星为附耳。
附耳摇动，有谗乱臣在侧。
昂、毕间为天街。
translation: 
If it is invaded by Venus or Mars, the problem will be particularly serious.
To the west of each star official of the vassals in the Taiwei Court, there are four stars who follow him, named Shaowei, who are scholar-bureaucrats in the Heavenly Court.
The Quan star is also the Xuanyuan star, shaped like the body of a yellow dragon.
The big star in front is the symbol of the heroine; the small star next to it is the waiter, the maid who belongs to the harem.
If the moon and the five stars do not guard or offend the zodiac sign, use the Hengxing star for prediction.
Dongjing hosts water affairs.
When Mars enters the constellation area and a star is around it, the emperor's affairs will be ruined by Mars. Hidden in the west of Shujingsu is a star called Iron; to the north is Pollux; to the south is Nanhe; the two stars are like a celestial palace, and between them are the Guanliang where the sun, moon and five stars move.
The ghost host foretells the sacrifice to the temple, among which the white star is the quality star.
Mars staying in the South and North River star areas indicates that there will be wars and the harvest will not be harvested.
Therefore, the omens of virtue and government are shown in the Hengxing star, the omens of reading and observation are shown in the Huangxing star, the omens of injury are shown in the Iron Star, the omens of disaster are shown in the Well Star, and the omens of punishment are shown in the Quality Star.
Liusu is the beak of a bird, which indicates vegetation.
The position of the seven stars is like the neck of a red bird, the throat of a red bird, so it indicates urgent matters.
Zhang Su's position is in the red bird's crop, and he is the master of the kitchen. Therefore, it indicates that he will treat guests with food.
The location of the Wing Sui is on the wing of the red bird, so it indicates guests from afar.
Zhensu is a car, which indicates the wind.
There is a small star next to it, called Changsha. When the star has starlight, it is not expected to be bright. If the brightness is the same as the four stars in Zhenxiu, and if the five stars are moving into Zhenxiu, it indicates that war will occur.
The stars south of Zhensu are called Tianku, and there are five chariot stars among the Tianku stars.
The starlight angles of the five chariots appear to have increased a lot. When the starlight angles disappear, it indicates that there are no chariots and horses.
Xianchi in the West Palace is called Tianwuhuangxing.
Wuhuangxing is the garage of the Five Emperors in the sky.
If Mars invades this star area, it indicates that there will be drought; if Venus invades this area, there will be military disasters; if Mercury invades this star area, there will be floods.
There are three pillars arranged in the Wuhuang star area, each pillar consists of three stars. If there are no pillars, a war will be initiated.
Kuisu is also called Fengxi, and it indicates ditches and rivers.
Lou host indicates the gathering of many things.
The stomach host indicates the emperor's storehouse.
The stars in its south are called Tang Jixing.
Pleiades, also known as the head, is the star that foretells the barbarians and the funeral of the White Clothes Association.
Bisu is also called Hanche Star, which indicates border guards and hunting matters.
The small star next to the big star is the Ear Star.
If the Ear Star flashes, it indicates that there are slanderous and rebellious ministers on the side of the emperor.
Between Pleiades and Bisu is Tianjie.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
其阴，阴国；阳，阳国。
参为白虎，三星直者，是为衡石。
下有三星，锐，曰罚，为斩艾事。
其外四星，左右肩股也。
小三星隅置，曰觜觿，为虎首，主葆旅事。
其南有四星，曰天厕。
天厕下一星，曰天矢。
矢黄则吉；青、白、黑、凶。
其西有句曲九星，三处罗列：一曰天旗，二曰天苑，三曰九斿。
其东有大星曰狼，狼角变色，多盗贼。
下有四星曰弧，直狼。
比地有大星，曰南极老人。
老人见，治安；不见，兵起。
常以秋分时候之南郊。
北营玄武，虚、危。
危为盖屋；虚为哭泣之事。
其南有众星，曰羽林天军。
军西为垒，或曰戊。旁一大星。北落。
北落若微亡，军星动角益稀，及五星犯北落，入军，军起。
火、金、水尤甚。
火入，军忧；水，水患；木、土，军吉。
危东六星，两两而比，曰司寇。
营室为清庙，曰离宫、阁道。
汉中四星，曰天驷。
旁一星，曰王梁。
王梁策马，车骑满野。
旁有八星，绝汉，曰天横。
天横旁，江星。
江星动，以人涉水。
杵、臼四星，在危南。
匏瓜，有青黑星守之，鱼盐贵。
南斗为庙，其北建星。
建星者，旗也。
牵牛为牺牲，其北河鼓。河鼓在星，上将；左，左将：右，右将。
婺女，其北织女。
织女，天女孙也。
岁星曰东方，春，木；于人五常，仁也；五事，貌也。
translation: 
The star to the north represents the Yin Kingdom, which foretells events in the northern kingdom; the star to the south represents the Yang Kingdom, which foretells events in the southern kingdom.
Rigel is the white tiger. The three stars of Rigel are arranged in a straight line from east to west, like a scale.
There are three stars below, and the upper point is larger than the lower point, which is called punishment. It indicates the suppression of the rebels.
The four stars outside it resemble the left and right shoulders of Rigel.
Small three stars are arranged in one corner, called the chest, like the head of a tiger, which indicates famine.
There are four stars to the south of it, called Tianwu stars.
There is a star under the Tianwu star, called Tianya star.
If the Tianya Star is yellow, it is auspicious; if it is cyan, white, or black, it is unlucky.
On its west side, there are nine connected and curved stars, which are arranged in three places, each with nine stars: one is called Tianqi, the second is called Tianyuan, and the third is called Jiuneck.
There is a large star to the east called the Wolf Star. The Wolf Star's light has horns and changes color, which indicates many thieves.
There are four stars below called arc stars, facing the wolf star.
There is a large star between the Wolf Star and the horizon, called the Old Man of Antarctica.
If Canopus appears, it indicates peace and order in the world; if it does not appear, it indicates war and disaster.
Generally, Canopus can be seen above the southern horizon during the autumnal equinox.
Beigong Xuanwu belongs to Xuxu and Danger.
The shape of a dangerous place is like building a house; an empty place is a sign of crying.
There are many stars to the south of it, called the Yulin Heavenly Army.
To the west of the Habayashi Army Star is the Base Star, or Iron Star, and the big star next to it is the Northern Falling Star.
If the Northern Fallen Star is dim or disappears, the Hanlin Heavenly Host star shakes and its horns become thinner, and the light of the five stars interferes with the Northern Fallen Star, or enters the Yulin Heavenly Army star area, then an army will rise.
Among the five stars, Mars, Venus, and Mercury are particularly powerful.
If Mars enters the star area, the army will be worried; if Mercury enters the star area, there will be floods; if Saturn and Jupiter enter the star area, the army will be auspicious.
There are six stars on the front of Weisu, arranged two by two, called Sikou stars.
Yingshisu is the Qing Temple of the Heavenly Court, also called the Ligong. It is connected to the Heavenly Court through the Pavilion Star.
The four stars in the Milky Way are called Tiansi.
The star next to him is called Wang Liang.
Wang Liang's star flashes like a horse, and the king's chariot gallops across the fields.
There are eight stars next to it, which go straight across the Milky Way and are called Tianheng.
Next to Tianhengxing is Jiangxing.
The flashing river stars indicate that someone is wading into the water.
The four stars Chuxing and Jiuxing are in the south of Weisu.
If there are foreign guest stars in the Paogua star area, and the stars are green and black, it indicates that fish and salt are expensive in the world.
Nandou is the temple of the Emperor of Heaven, and there is a star in the north.
Jianxing is the flag of the Emperor of Heaven.
The Altair star is worshiped by the Emperor of Heaven. To the north is the Hegu star. The largest of the three stars of the Hegu is the general; the one on the left is the left general; the one on the right is the right general.
Female constellation, in the north is Vega.
Vega is the granddaughter of the Emperor of Heaven.
The year star is the oriental four seasons matching spring and the five elements matching wood. For human relations, it represents benevolence in the five constant elements and appearance in the five things.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
仁亏貌失，逆春令，伤木气，罚见岁星。
岁星所在，国不可伐，可以伐人。
超舍而前为赢，退舍为缩。
赢，其国有兵不复；缩，其国有忧，其将死，国倾败。
所去，失地；所之，得地。
一曰，当居不居，国亡；所之，国昌；已居之，又东西去之，国凶，不可举事用兵，安静中度，吉。
出入不当其次，必有天祅见其舍也。
岁星赢而东南。《石氏》 见彗星 ，《甘氏》 不出三月乃生彗，本类星，末类彗，长二丈 。
赢东北，《石氏》 见觉星 ，《甘氏》 不出三月乃生天欃，本类星，末锐，长四尺。
缩西南，《石氏》 见欃云，如牛 ，《甘氏》 不出三月乃生天枪，左右锐，长数丈 。
缩西北，《石氏》 见枪云，如马 ，《甘氏》 不出三月乃生天欃，本类星，末锐，长数丈 。
《石氏》 枪、欃、彗异状，其殃一也，必有破国乱君，伏死其辜，余殃不尽，为旱、凶、饥、暴疾 。
至日行一尺，出二十余日乃入，《甘氏》 其国凶，不可举事用兵 。
出而易， 所当之国，是受其殃 。
又曰 祅星，不出三年，其下有军，及失地，若国君丧 。
荧惑曰南方，夏，火；礼也；视也。
礼亏视失，逆夏令，伤火气，罚见荧惑。
逆行一舍二舍为不祥，居之三月国有殃，五月受兵，七月国半亡地，九月地大半亡。
translation: 
If benevolence and righteousness do not exist, appearance is disrespectful, spring orders are disobeyed, wood energy is harmed, signs of punishment will appear in the year star.
The corresponding country in the sky area where the Sui Star is located is invincible, and it is invincible to attack other countries.
If it moves beyond the normal number of times, it will be a win, if it moves less than the normal number of times, it will be a win.
If it wins, the divided country will have its troops dispersed and unable to return; if it shrinks, the divided country will be in trouble, it will die, and its country will be defeated.
The country of divisions corresponding to the region of heaven that the Sui star is leaving will lose land; the country of divisions corresponding to the region of heaven that it will go to will gain land.
Another saying is, if you stay and don't stay, the country will perish; if you go there, the country will prosper; if you have stayed and left to the east and west, the country is in danger, and you can't use troops to cause trouble. If the movement is safe and moderate, it is a good sign.
The movement of the year star in and out of the constellation area does not follow the rules, and there must be ominous celestial phenomena in the star area.
The year star moves quickly and appears early in the southeastern constellation. "Shishi" says that a comet appears, and "Gan" says that a comet will be formed in less than three months. Its head is like a star, its tail is like a comet, and it is two feet long.
It is about to appear in the northeast. "Shishi" says that "Tianjue Star" will appear. "Ganshi" says that "Tianqiang Star" will be formed in less than three months. Its head is like a star, its tail is pointed, and it is four feet long.
The slow motion appears in the southwest. "Shishi" says that a mixed cloud star will appear, shaped like an ox. "Gan" says that a sky spear star will appear in less than three months, with sharp left and right points and a length of several feet.
The slow moving star appears in the northwest. "Shi's" says that the gun cloud star appears, which is shaped like a horse. "Gan's" says that it will form a star in the sky in less than three months, with a head like a star, a pointed tail, and a length of several feet.
"Shi Shi" said that spear-shaped, spindle-shaped, rod-shaped, and broom-shaped shapes all have different shapes, and they all herald disasters. They will destroy the country and rebel against the king, lay corpses on the people, and cause endless disasters. They are the harbingers of drought, fierceness, famine, and violent diseases.
If the year star moves one foot, appears for more than twenty days and then disappears, "Gan's" says that this phenomenon indicates that the country is in danger and must not mobilize troops.
The star of the year appears but changes, and the divided country indicated by the sign is about to suffer its disaster.
It is also said that after the mutation star appears, within three years, there will be a war in the divided areas below, and then the land will be lost, or the king will be lost.
Mars is the star of the south, representing the summer in the four seasons. It belongs to the fire of the five elements, representing the rituals in the five constants of human ethics and the vision in the five things.
If the person fails to pay attention to the national rites, disobeys the summer edict, and hurts the fire energy, the signs of punishment will be shown in Mars.
It is unlucky to move backward from Shu to the west within the range of one or two houses. If you stay in the star area for three months, disasters will occur in the divided country. In five months, there will be an invasion war. In July, half of the country will be lost, and in September, most of the country will be lost.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
因与俱出入，国绝祀。
荧惑为乱为贼，为疾为丧，为饥为兵，所居之宿国受殃。
殃还至者，虽大当小；居之久殃乃至者，当小反大。
已去复还居之，若居之而角者，若动者，绕环之，及乍前乍后，乍左乍右，殃愈甚。
一曰，荧惑出则有大兵，入则兵散。
周还止息，乃为其死丧。
寇乱在其野者亡地，以战不胜。
东行疾则兵聚于东方，西行疾则兵聚于西方；其南为丈夫丧，北为女子丧。
荧惑，天子理也。故曰虽有明天子，必视荧惑所在。
太白曰西方，秋，金；义也；言也。
义亏言失，逆秋令，伤金气，罚见太白。
日方南太白居其南，日方北太白居其北，为赢，侯王不宁，用兵进吉退凶。
日方南太白居其北，日方北太白居其南，为缩，侯王有忧，用兵退吉进凶。
当出不出，当入不入，为失舍，不有破军，必有死王之墓，有亡国。
一曰，天下偃兵，野有兵者，所当之国大凶。
当出不出，未当入而入，天下偃兵，兵在外，入。
未当出而出，当入而不入，天下起兵，有至破国。
未当出而出，未当入而入，天下举兵，所当之国亡。
当期而出，其国昌。
出东为东方，入为北方；出西为西方，入为南方。
所居久，其国利；易，其乡凶。
入七日复出，将军战死。
入十日复出，相死之。
入又复出，人君恶之。
已出三日而复微入，三日乃夏盛出，是为耎而伏，其下国有军，其众败将北。
已入三日，又复微出，三日乃复盛入，其下国有忧，帅师虽众，敌食其粮，用其兵，虏其帅。
出西方，失其行，夷狄败；出东方，失其行，中国败。
一曰，出蚤为月食，晚为天祅及彗星，将发于亡道之国。
translation: 
Nine months later, this situation continued to appear and disappear, and the country was destroyed and no fireworks were sacrificed.
Mars indicates that there will be chaos, banditry, disease, funerals, famine, and war disasters, and the country corresponding to the star area where he lives will suffer from it.
If a disaster is realized quickly, the disaster will be small even though it comes with great force; if the disaster is realized after staying for a long time, it will be small but become bigger.
The movement of Mars has left the star area and returned to the state of residence. If it stays and the starlight has angles, or the starlight flashes around, forward and backward, left and right, the disaster will be more severe.
One theory is that when Mars appears, a great war will start, and when it disappears, the army will be dispersed.
If it surrounds and then stops, it is regarded as a sign of death.
If a riot occurs in a divided country, the country will lose ground and the battle will not be won.
If Mars moves eastward quickly, soldiers will gather in chaos in the east; if it moves westward quickly, soldiers will gather in chaos in the west; in the south, it indicates the loss of men, and in the north, it indicates the loss of women.
Mars is the law enforcement officer of the Emperor of Heaven, so even if there is a Taoist emperor, he must check the movement of Mars.
Venus is the star of the west and represents autumn among the four seasons. Gold among the five elements is righteousness among the five constants of human relations and words among the five things.
Failure to express justice, disobedience to the Autumn Order, damage to the metal energy, and signs of punishment are shown in Venus.
When the sun is in the south, Venus remains in the south, and when the sun is in the north, Venus remains in the north. At this time, Venus moves ahead, which indicates that the prince will be uneasy. It will be auspicious to raise an army to attack, and it will be unlucky to retreat.
The sun is just south and Venus remains to its north, and the sun is just north and Venus remains to its south. At this time, Venus moves too slowly, which indicates that the prince will be in trouble. It will be auspicious to retreat with troops and unlucky to attack.
Failure to appear when it should appear, and whether Cain should disappear or not disappear, are improper operation, which indicates that if the battle is not broken, the army will be defeated, and the king and the country will be destroyed.
One thing is that when the world is silent, but there is war in the divided areas, it means that there is a great disaster in the country.
When it appears but does not appear, when it is not appropriate to disappear but disappears, the world ceases its troops, and when the troops are outside the country, they enter the country.
Appear when it is not appropriate to appear, and disappear when it is inappropriate to disappear. There will be wars in the world, and the country will be ruined.
If you appear when you don't want to appear, if you don't hide when you don't want to disappear, the world will raise troops in large numbers, and the country you want will perish and lose its territory.
The appearance of the corresponding patterns as scheduled indicates the prosperity of the divided country.
If it appears in the east on time, the country in the east will be prosperous, and if it disappears, it will be the country of the north. If it appears in the west, it will be prosperous of the west, and if it disappears, it will be prosperous of the south.
If you stay for a long time, it will be beneficial to the divided country; if you change the divided country, it will be dangerous.
It disappeared for seven days and reappeared, indicating that the general would die in battle.
After hiding for ten years, he reappeared, and the man who was the prime minister died.
It disappears and reappears, and the emperor hates it.
It has appeared for three days and then seems to be invisible and appears, and after three days the star shines brightly again. This is a sign of weakness and surrender. The divided country has military operations and its army is defeated.
It has been hidden for three days, and it appears to be hidden, and three times it is completely hidden. The country in its divided area is in trouble. Although the army it leads is large, the enemy eats its food, captures its soldiers, and captures its generals.
Appearing in the West and not operating according to the rules, it indicates the decline of the Yi and Di; appearing in the East and not operating according to the rules, it indicates the decline of the country in the Central Plains.
One theory is that if it appears in advance, there will be a lunar eclipse, and if it appears later, there will be abnormal star changes and comets, which will happen in the country of lawlessness.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
太白出而留桑榆间，病其下国。
上而疾，未尽期日过参天，病其对国。
太白经天，天下革，民更王，是为乱纪，人民流亡。
昼见与日争明，强国弱，小国强，女主昌。
太白，兵象也。
出而高，用兵深吉浅凶；埤，浅吉深凶。
行疾，用兵疾吉迟凶；行迟，用兵迟吉疾凶。
角，敢战吉，不敢战凶；击角所指吉，逆之凶。
进退左右，用兵进退左右吉，静凶。
圜以静，用兵静吉趮凶。
出则兵出，入则兵入。
象太白吉，反之凶。
赤角，战。
太白者，犹军也，而荧惑，忧也。
故荧惑从太白，军忧；离之，军舒。
出太白之阴，有分军；出其阳，有偏将之战。
当其行，太白还之，破军杀将。
辰星，杀伐之气，战斗之象也。
与太白俱出东方，皆赤而角，夷狄败，中国胜；与太白俱出西方，皆赤而角，中国败，夷狄胜。
五星分天之中，积于东方，中国大利；积于西方，夷狄用兵者利。
辰星不出，太白为客；辰星出，太白为主人。
辰星与太白不相从，虽有军不战。
辰星出东方，太白出西方。若辰星出西方，太白出东方，为格，野虽有兵，不战。
辰星入太白中，五日乃出，及入而上出，破军杀将，客胜；下出，客亡地。
辰星来抵，太白不去，将死。
正其上出，破军杀将，客胜；不出，客亡地。
视其所指，以名破军。
辰星绕环太白，若斗，大战，客胜，主人吏死。
辰星过太白，间可椷剑，小战，客胜；居太白前旬三日，军罢；出太白左，小战；历太白右，数万人战，主人吏死；出太白右，去三尺，军急约战。
凡太白所出所直之辰，其国为得位，得位者战胜。
所直之辰顺其色而角者胜，其色害者败。
太白白比狼，赤比心，黄比参右肩，青比参左肩，黑比奎大星。
色胜位，行胜色，行得尽胜之。
辰星曰北方，冬，水，知也；听也。
知亏听失，逆冬令，伤水气，罚见辰星。
出蚤为月食，晚为彗星及天祅。
translation: 
Venus appears above the tops of mulberry and elm trees in the evening, damaging the divided country beneath it.
The rise is rapid, and it has passed a third of the sky before it expires, damaging the country against which the divided country is opposed.
When Venus passes through the mid-heaven during the day, there will be a revolution to change dynasties in the world. The people will change their monarchs, causing chaos in the laws and regulations, and the people will go into exile.
When Venus appears during the day and competes with the sun, it is a sign that a strong country will be weak, a small country will be strong, and the queen will be prosperous.
Venus is the symbol of war.
If it appears and the position is high, it will be auspicious if it goes deep, and it will be unlucky if it does not go deep; if it is low, it will be auspicious if it does not go deep, and it will be unlucky if it goes deep.
If it moves fast, it will be auspicious if it advances quickly, and if it moves slowly, it will be unlucky; if it moves slowly, if it advances slowly, it will be auspicious, and if it advances quickly, it will be unlucky.
The starlight has horns, which means good luck to those who are brave and bad luck to those who are not brave; attacking in the direction pointed by the horns is good luck, and attacking in the opposite direction is bad luck.
Venus advances and retreats to the left and right. If it advances and retreats to the left and right, it will be auspicious. If it stays still, it will be unlucky.
The aura of the star is quiet and auspicious, which means it is auspicious to use troops calmly, but it is unlucky to be cautious in maneuvering.
When Venus appears, troops will be sent out; when Venus disappears, troops will move in.
Military operations like those of Venus will be auspicious, and vice versa will be unlucky.
The starlight is red and has horns, which is a sign of the outbreak of war.
Venus symbolizes military, while Mars symbolizes sorrow.
Therefore, when Mars follows Venus, it indicates military worries; when it leaves Venus, the military is happy.
If Mars appears to the north of Venus, there will be branch armies; if Mars appears to the south of Venus, there will be partial division operations.
Mars is moving in the normal constellation, and Venus still obeys it, which is a sign of defeating the army and killing the general.
Mercury has the aura of killing and is the sign of battle.
It appears in the east with Venus, both of which are red in color and have rays of light, indicating the defeat of the Yi and Di armies and the victory of the armies of the Central Plains. When Venus appears in the west at the same time, they are both red in color and have rays of light, which indicates the defeat of the armies of the Central Plains and the victory of the Yi and Di armies.
The five stars are distributed in the mid-heaven and gathered in the east, which indicates great success for the country in the Central Plains; when gathered in the west, they indicate that the military operations of Yi and Di will be favorable.
When Mercury does not appear, Venus is the guest; when Mercury appears, Venus is the host star.
Mercury and Venus do not follow each other, and although there are armies in their divided areas, there is no war.
Mercury appears in the east and Venus appears in the west, or Mercury appears in the west and Venus appears in the east, which is a state of separation. Although there are soldiers in the four fields, there is no fighting.
Mercury is obscured by the light of Venus, and the Five Queens appear again. When it enters Venus and moves out from above, it indicates that an army will be destroyed and generals will be killed, and the invading party will win; when it moves out from below, the invading party will lose ground.
Mercury is close to Venus and Venus does not move away, which indicates death.
When it appears from the top of Venus, it indicates that the army will be destroyed and the general will be killed, and the invading party will win; if it appears from below, the invading party will lose ground.
Look at the star area in the direction of Mercury, and the name of its star officer indicates the general of the defeated army.
Mercury orbits Venus, and if its horns and angles are close to each other, it means a great war, in which the invader will win and the officials in charge of the invaded party will die.
When Mercury passes Venus, the distance between the two planets is just a sword, a small battle occurs, and the invading side wins; when Mercury is located thirteen days before Venus, it indicates the end of the war; when it appears to the left of Venus, it indicates a small battle; when it passes to the right of Venus, there is a battle involving tens of thousands of people, and the officials in charge of the invaded party died; when it appears on the right of Venus, three feet away from it, it indicates an urgent challenge by the army.
Whenever Venus appears in the opposite celestial position, its country is said to be "in position", and the party that obtains the position wins.
If the color of the star is in harmony with the star in its corresponding celestial position, if the light has bright angles at the same time, it indicates victory; if the color of the star is inconsistent, it indicates failure.
The color of Venus is sometimes as white as Wolf, sometimes as red as Antares, sometimes as yellow as Rigel's right horn, sometimes as blue as Left horn, and sometimes as black as Quaida.
It is better for Venus not to lose its original character than to be in position; it is better to move in a condition better than the starlight to lose its original character; to move according to the rules is better than anything else.
Mercury, which dominates the north, represents winter. It belongs to water among the five elements, wisdom among the five constants of human relations, and listening among the five things.
Loss of wisdom, loss of hearing, disobedience to winter orders, damage to water vapor, punishment is shown in Mercury.
The earliest occurrences are lunar eclipses, and the later occurrences are comets and mutated astrological phenomena.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
一时不出，其时不和；四时不出，天下大饥。
失其时而出，为当寒反温，当温反寒。
当出不出，是谓击卒，兵大起。
与它星遇而斗，天下大乱。
出于房、心间，地动。
填星曰中央，季，夏，土；信也；思，心也。
仁义礼智以信为主，貌言视听以心为正，故四星皆失，填星乃为之动。
填星所居，国吉。
未当居而居之，若已去而复还居之，国得土，不乃得女子。
当居不居，既已居之，又东西去之，国失土，不乃失女，不，有土事若女之忧。
居宿久，国福厚；易，福薄。
当居不居，为失填，其下国可伐；得者，不可伐。
其赢，为王不宁；缩，有军不复。
一曰，既已居之又东西去之，其国凶，不可举事用兵。
失次而上一舍三舍，有王命不成，不乃大水；失次而下二舍，有后戚，其岁不复，不乃天裂若地动。
凡五星，岁与填合则为内乱，与辰合则为变谋而更事，与荧惑合则为饥，为旱，与太白合则为白衣之会，为水。
太白在南，岁在北，名曰牝牡，年谷大孰。太白在北，岁在南，年或有或亡。
荧惑与太白合则为丧，不可举事用兵；与填合则为忧，主孽卿；与辰合则为北军，用兵举事大败。
填与辰合则将有覆军下师；与太白合则为疾，为内兵。
辰与太白合则为变谋，为兵忧。
凡岁、荧惑、填、太白四星与辰斗，皆为战，兵不在外，皆为内乱。
一曰，火与水合为淬，与金合为铄，不可举事用兵。
土与金合国亡地，与木合则国饥，与水合为雍沮，不可举事用兵。
木与金合斗，国有内乱。
translation: 
If a season does not appear, its season will be in disharmony; if four seasons do not appear, there will be a great famine in the world.
If it does not appear in season, the weather will be cold but warm, or warm but cold.
Not appearing when you should appear is the so-called ambush of soldiers who are about to appear, which is a sign of great military success.
If it meets other stars among the five stars and the starlight collides, the world will be in chaos.
Mercury appears between the houses and the heart, and earthquakes occur.
The central place of Saturn represents the end of summer. It belongs to the wood among the five elements, the faith among the five constants of human relations, and the mind among the five things.
Among the principles of human ethics, benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, trust and trust are the most important. The five things and ten of appearance, speech, hearing, sight, and heart are headed by the heart. Therefore, if the other four stars are abnormal, Saturn will be affected by them.
The land of divisions in the constellation area where Saturn is located is auspicious.
If Saturn is not in the right place, or has moved away and then returns to it, the divided country under it will get the land, otherwise it will get the woman.
If you are in one place but not in another place, or if you are temporarily there and then leave in the east-west direction, the country in which it is divided will lose its land, otherwise it will lose its woman. On the contrary, there will be the labor of civil engineering or the mistress will be worried.
Stars with long periods of time will have great blessings in their respective countries; those with short periods of time will have poor blessings.
If it is in the right place but not in the right place, it is called a lost town, and the country under it can be conquered; if it is in the right place, it cannot be conquered.
If Saturn appears early, it is a sign that the king is restless; if it appears late, it is a sign that the army will never return.
One said, if you stay temporarily and then leave in the east-west direction, the country in which you are divided is dangerous and you should not raise an army.
If the person gives up one or three times early and unexpectedly, it indicates that the king's order will not be carried out, otherwise there will be a flood; if the person gives up slowly and late out of the norm, it will cause problems for relatives, and their years will be bad, otherwise there will be a crack in the sky like an earthquake.
Whenever the five stars are in motion, Jupiter and Saturn will be combined to indicate civil strife, Mercury will be combined to indicate changes and job changes, Mars will be combined to indicate famine and drought, and Venus will be a sign of white-clothed funerals or floods.
Venus is in the south and Jupiter is in the north. It is called a female, which indicates a good harvest. Venus is in the north and Jupiter is in the south. The year is good or bad.
When Mars meets Venus, it is a sign of mourning, and you should not use military force; when it meets Saturn, it is a sign of worry, and it indicates that you will have a concubine as your minister; when it meets Mercury, it indicates that you will have a defeated army, and you will be defeated if you mobilize troops.
The conjunction of Saturn and Mercury indicates the annihilation of the entire army; the conjunction of Saturn and Venus indicates the occurrence of disease and civil strife.
The conjunction of Mercury and Venus indicates that there is a plan for change, which is a worry for war.
Whenever the rays of Jupiter, Mars, the Ascendant, Venus and Mercury are in contact with each other, it is a sign of war. If the army is not outside the country, it is a sign of civil strife.
One theory is that the combination of fire and water is quenching, and the combination of fire and metal is smelting, so it is not allowed to use force.
If Saturn joins Venus, the country will lose its territory; if it joins Jupiter, the country will suffer from famine; if it joins Mercury, it will cause obstruction, so it is not possible to use military force.
When the rays of Jupiter and Venus are in contact, there will be civil strife in the country.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
同舍为合，相陵为斗。
二星相近者其殃大，二星相远者殃无伤也，从七寸以内必之。
凡月食五星，其国皆亡：岁以饥，荧惑以乱，填以杀，太白强国以战，辰以女乱。
月食大角，王者恶之。
凡五星所聚宿，其国王天下：从岁以义，从荧惑以礼，从填以重，从太白以兵从辰以法。
以法者，以法致天下也。
三星若合，是谓惊立绝行，其国外内有兵与丧，民人乏饥，改立王公。
四星若合，是谓大汤，其国兵丧并起，君子忧，小人流。
五星若合，是谓易行：有德受庆，改立王者，掩有四方，子孙蕃昌；亡德受罚，离其国家，灭其宗庙，百姓离去，被满四方。
五星皆大，其事亦大；皆小，其事亦小也。
凡五星色：皆圜，白为丧为旱，赤中不平为兵，青为忧为水，黑为疾为多死，黄吉；皆角，赤犯我城，黄地之争，白哭泣之声，青有兵忧，黑水。
五星同色，天下偃兵，百姓安宁，歌舞以行，不见灾疾，五谷蕃昌。
凡五星，岁，缓则不行，急则过分，逆则占。
荧惑，缓则不出，急则不入，违道则占。
填，缓则不建，急则过舍，逆则占。
太白，缓则不出，急则不入，逆则占。
辰，缓则不出，急则不入，非时则占。
五星不失行，则年谷丰昌。
凡以宿星通下之变者，维星散，句星信，则地动。
translation: 
When two stars move in the same constellation, they are in conjunction, and when the stars touch each other, they are in conflict.
If two stars are close to each other, it indicates great disaster. If two stars are far apart, the disaster will be harmless. If two stars are within seven inches of each other, there will be no harm.
When the moon covers the five stars, the country will be destroyed in the place where it divides: if Jupiter is eaten, there will be famine, if Mars is eaten, there will be unrest, if Saturn is eaten, there will be massacres, if Venus is eaten, powerful countries will start wars, and if Mercury is eaten, there will be chaos caused by concubines.
The moon obscures Arcturus, anathema to the king.
Wherever the five stars gather together, the country of its division dominates the world: following Jupiter means victory, following Mars means prosperity, following Saturn means virtue, following Venus means military strength, and following Mercury means rule of law.
He who conquers the world by using the law governs the world according to the law.
If the three stars come together, it is called a startling and decisive action. There will be wars and funerals at home and abroad, and the people will be poor and hungry, and they will rise up and establish princes.
If the four stars come together, it will be a so-called great disturbance, in which wars, rebellions and funerals will be launched in divided countries. The nobles will be worried and the people will be dispersed.
If the five stars gather together, it is said that it is easy to do: the virtuous will receive blessings, the king will be reestablished, own the land in all directions, and his descendants will be prosperous; the unvirtuous king will be punished by heaven and leave his country, the ancestral temple will be destroyed, the people will abandon him, and wander around in all directions.
The shapes of the five stars are all large, indicating that the happenings are big; the shapes of the five stars are small, indicating that the happenings are also small.
The light colors of all five stars are ring-shaped, white indicates mourning, drought, red with depth and light in the center, indicates war, green indicates sorrow, floods, black indicates disease, and many patients die, yellow is an auspicious sign; they all have horns, red indicates enemies are invading our city, yellow indicates land disputes, white indicates the sound of crying, cyan indicates soldiers are worried, and black indicates floods.
If the five stars are of the same color, the world will stop fighting, the people will be at peace, singing and dancing will be peaceful, disasters will not occur, and the grain will be abundant.
Regarding the five stars: Jupiter, if the star moves slowly, it will not move to the degree it should reach; if it moves quickly, it will move beyond the degree it should reach. If it moves retrograde from east to west, it needs divination.
If Mars is a slow star, it should appear but not appear; if it is urgent, it should disappear but not disappear. If it violates the normal orbit, it must be divination.
If Saturn moves slowly, it will not move to the degree it should reach; if it moves quickly, it will move beyond the degree it should reach; if it moves retrograde, it will require divination.
If Venus is a slow planet, it should appear but not appear; if it is urgent, it should disappear but not disappear; if it is retrograde, it will be used for divination.
If Mercury moves slowly, it should appear but not appear; if it moves urgently, it should disappear but not disappear; if its movement is not in season, it needs divination.
If the movement of the five stars is neither too fast nor too slow, and conforms to normal laws, then there will be a good harvest and the country will be prosperous.
Any situation where the stars are considered to be separated from each other: if the three stars behind Dou Piao do not follow each other, and the hook stars are aligned directly, there will be an earthquake.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
有星守三渊，天下大水，地动，海鱼出。
纪星散者山崩，不即有丧。
龟、鳖星不居汉中，川有易者。
辰星入五车，大水。
荧惑入积水，水，兵起；入积薪，旱，兵起；守之，亦然。
极后有四星，名曰句星。
斗杓后有三星，名曰维星。散者，不相从也。
三渊，盖五车之三柱也。
天纪属贯索。
积薪在北戍西北。
积水在北戍东北。
角、亢、氐，沇州。
房、心，豫州。
尾、箕，幽州。
斗，江、湖。
牵牛、婺女，扬州。
虚、危，青州。
营室、东壁，并州。
奎、娄、胃，徐州。
昴、毕，冀州。
觜觿、参、益州。
东井、舆鬼，雍州，柳、七星、张，三河。
翼、轸，荆州。
甲乙，海外，日月不占。
丙丁，江、淮、海、岱。
戊己，中州河、济。
庚辛，华山以西。
壬癸，常出以北。
一曰，甲齐，乙东夷，丙楚，丁南夷，戊魏，己韩，庚秦，辛西夷，壬燕、赵，癸北夷。
子周，丑翟，寅赵，卯郑，辰邯郸，已卫，午秦，末中山，申齐，酉鲁，戌吴、越，亥燕、代。
秦之疆，候太白，占狼、弧。
吴、楚之疆，候荧惑，占鸟衡。
燕、齐之疆，候辰星，占虚、危。
宋、郑之疆，候岁星，占房、心。
晋之疆，亦候辰星，占参、罚。
及秦并吞三晋、燕、代，自河、山以南者中国。
中国于四海内则在东南，为阳，阳则日、岁星、荧惑、填星，占于街南，毕主之。
其西北则胡、貉、月氏旃裘引弓之民，为阴，阴则月、太白、辰星，占于街北，昴主之。
故中国山川东北流，其维，首在陇、蜀，尾没于渤海碣石。
是以秦、晋好用兵，复占太白。
太白主中国，而胡、貉数侵掠，独占辰星。
translation: 
There are planets left behind in the Sanyuan Star Region. There are floods, earthquakes, and sea fish jumping out of the world.
There will be landslides among the scattered stars in the sky, and there will be funerals soon.
If the Turtle and Turtle stars are not in the Milky Way, the rivers may change.
Mercury enters the five-car star area, and there is heavy water.
When Mars enters the Ji Shui star area, there will be floods and wars; when it moves into the Ji Shui star area, there will be droughts and wars; the same is true for those who cannot be detained.
There are four stars behind the celestial pole, named Gou Xing.
There is a three-star star behind the douban, which is called Weixing. Dispersion means disobedience.
Sanyuan star is the three-pillar star among the five chariot stars.
The celestial constellation is close to the Guansuo constellation.
The Salary Star is in the northwest of Pollux Star.
Mercury is northeast of Pollux.
The dividing area between Spica, Kangsu and Disu is Hangzhou.
Room and boarding. The place of residence is Yuzhou.
The dividing line between Ojuku and Minjuku is Youshu.
Dou Su is divided into Kenliao and Poyang Lake.
The dividing line between Qianniu Su and Wu Nu Su is Yangzhou.
The dividing line between Xusu and Weisu is Qingzhou.
The separate areas of Yingshisu and Shubisu are bad karma.
Xuzhou is the dividing line between Kuisu, Lousu and Weisu.
The dividing line between Pleiades and Bisu is Jizhou.
The dividing line between Cangqiaosu and Risu is Yizhou.
The dividing line between Shujingsu and Yuguisu is Yongzhou. Liusu, Qixing, and Zhangsu are separated by three rivers.
The dividing line between Yisu and Zhensu is Jingzhou.
A and B say when. The sun and moon are not divined overseas.
When Bing and Ding say it, the Yangtze River, the Huaihe River, the sea and Mount Tai do not predict the day and the moon.
At the time of Wuji, the Yellow River and Jijiang areas in the Central Plains did not predict the sun and moon.
At the time of Geng Xin, there was no divination of the sun and moon to the west of Mount Hua.
When Rengui said that the sun and moon were not divined north of Changshan.
One said, A said it was the Qi State, B said it was the Cambodian Yi State, B said it was the Chu State, Ding said it was the Southern Yi State, Wu Day was the Wei State, Ji said it was Korea, Geng said it was the Qin State, Xin said it was the Western Yi State, Ren said it was the Yan State and Tang State, and Gui said it was the Northern Yi State.
Zi said it was Zhou, Chou said it was Zhai, Yin said Zhao, Maori was Zheng, Chen was Handan, Si was Wei, Wu said it was Qin, Doomsday was Zhongshan, Shen was Qi, You said Lu, Xu was Wu and Yue, Hai said Yan and Dai did not predict the sun and moon.
The territory of Qin State is determined by Venus, Wolf Star and Arc Star.
The territories of Wu and Chu were determined by Mars, Bird Star, and Heng Star.
The territories of Yan and Qi are ruled by Mercury, Xu and Wei.
The territories of Song and Zheng were ruled by Jupiter, Fang and Xin.
The territory of the Jin Kingdom is determined by Mercury, Rigel and the punishment star.
When Qin State annexed the Three Jin States, Yan State, and Dai State, it formed the Central Plains from the Yellow River and Huashan Mountain to the south.
The Central Plains is in the southeast for Sihaiyu Nei, which is Yang, and Yang is the sun, Jupiter, Mars, and Saturn. Observing their signs from the south of Tianjie will be the host of Yang.
In the northwest of the Central Plains are the Hu people, Beiyi, Yuezhi and other ethnic minorities who wear leather clothes and use bows and arrows. They are Yin. Yin is the moon, Venus, and Mercury. Observe their signs in the north of Tianjie. Pleiades governs Yin.
So Shanxi in the Central Plains! It runs northeast, with its head in the Long and Shu regions and its tail in the Jieshi Mountains of the Bohai Sea.
Therefore, the countries of Qin and Jin are easy to use troops, and they can also divine the planet Venus.
The Lord of Venus indicates the Central Plains, and the northern minorities have invaded several times, so Mercury can be observed alone.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
辰星出入疾，常主夷狄，其大经也。
凡五星，早出为赢，赢为客；晚出为缩，缩为主人。
五星赢缩，必有天应见杓。
太岁在寅曰摄提格。
岁星正月晨出东方，《石氏》曰名监德，在斗、牵牛。
失次，杓，早水，晚旱。
《甘氏》在建星、婺女。《太初历》在营室、东壁。
在卯曰单阏。
二月出，《石氏》曰名降人，在婺女、虚、危。
《甘氏》在虚、危。
失次，杓，有水灾。
《太初》在奎、娄。
在辰曰执徐。
三月出，《石氏》曰名青章，在营室、东壁。
失次，杓，早旱，晚水。《甘氏》同。
《太初》在胃、昴。
在巳曰大荒落。
四月出，《石氏》曰名路踵，在奎、娄。
《甘氏》同。
《太初》在参、罚。
在午曰敦牂。
五月出。《石氏》曰名启明，在胃、昴、毕。
失次，杓，早旱，晚水。
《甘氏》同。
《太初》在东井、舆鬼。
在未曰协洽。
六月出，《石氏》曰名长烈，在觜觿、参。
《甘氏》在参、罚。
《太初》在注、张、七星。
在申曰氵君滩。
七月出。《石氏》曰名天晋，在东井、舆鬼。
《甘氏》在弧。
《太初》在翼、轸。
在酉曰作詻八月出。
《石氏》曰名长壬，在柳、七星、张。
失次，杓，有女丧、民疾。
《甘氏》在注、张。
失次，杓，有火。
《太初》在角、亢。
在戌曰掩茂。
九月出，《石氏》曰名天睢，在翼、轸。
失次，杓，水。
《甘氏》在七星、翼。
《太初》在氐、房、心。
在亥曰大渊献。
十月出，《石氏》曰名天皇，在角、亢始。
《甘氏》在轸、角、亢。
《太初》在尾、箕。
在子曰困敦。
十一月出，《石氏》曰名天宗，在氐、房始。
《甘氏》同。
《太初》在建星、牵牛。
在丑曰赤奋苦。
十二月出，《石氏》曰名天昊，在尾、箕。
《甘氏》在心、尾。
《太初》在婺女、虚、危。
《甘氏》、《太初历》所以不同者，以星赢缩在前，各录后所见也。
translation: 
Mercury moves rapidly, which usually indicates Yi Di. This is probably the case.
If the five-star appears early, it is a win, and win is for the guest; if it appears late, it is a shrink, and shrink is for the owner.
If the five stars move sooner or later, there must be a celestial phenomenon that will be fulfilled in the dipper star.
When the Tai Sui star is in the Yin position, it is called Shetige.
Jupiter appears in the east on the morning of the first lunar month. According to "Shi Shi", it is called Jiande and its location is in the Dou Xing and Altair star areas.
Abnormal operation occurs in the Piaoxingxing area. If it appears too early, there will be floods, if it appears too late, there will be drought.
"Gan Shi" said that it appeared in Jianxing and Wunu Su, and "Taichu Li" said that it appeared in Yingshi Su and Dongbi Su.
In the Mao position, it is called Shan Yan.
Jupiter leaves the east in the morning of February, and "Shi Shi" calls it descending, and appears in Wu Nu Su, Xu Su, and Wei Su.
"Gan's" says that it appears in empty and dangerous places.
If the movement is abnormal in the dipper star, there will be floods.
"Taichu Calendar" says that it appeared in Kuisu and Lousu.
In the Chen position, it is called Zhixu.
Jupiter comes out of the east in the morning of March, and is called Qingzhang in "Shi Shi". It appears in Yingshisu and Cambodian Bisu.
If it moves abnormally with the dipper star, if it appears too early, there will be drought, and if it appears too late, there will be floods. This is the same as what is said in "Gan's".
"Taichu Calendar" says that it appears in the Wei constellation and Pleiades constellation.
In Si's position, it was called Dahuangluo.
Jupiter emerges from the east in the morning of April, and is called Lu Hei in "Shishi", appearing in Kuisu and Lousu.
"Gan's" describes the same thing.
"Taichu Calendar" says that Rigel and the punishment star appeared.
In the noon position, it is called Dunzang.
Jupiter rises out of the east in the morning of May, and is called Qiming in "Shishi". It appears in Wei, Pleiades, and Bisu.
If it moves abnormally with the dipper star, it will cause drought if it appears too early, and floods if it appears too late.
It is the same as described in "Ganshi".
"Taichu Calendar" says that it appeared in Shujing Su and Yugui Su.
In the Wei position, it is called Xiexie.
Jupiter rises in the east in the morning of June, and is called Chang Lie in "Shi Shi". It appears in the stars Betelgeuse and Rigel.
"Gan's" said that it appeared in Rigel and the punishment star.
"Taichu Calendar" says that it appears in Liusu, Zhangsu and Qixingsu.
In the application position, it is called Huojuntan.
Jupiter emerges from the east in the morning of July, and is called Tianjin in "Shi Shi". It appears in Shujing Su and Yugui Su.
"Gan" says that it appears on the arc star.
"Taichu Calendar" says that it appeared in Yisu and Zhensu.
In the unitary position, it is called testimony.
Jupiter rises in the east in the morning of August, and is called Changren in "Shishi". It appears in Liusu, Qixingsu, and Zhangsu.
If the star is running abnormally, there will be a funeral for the heroine and the people will be sick.
"Ganshi" says that it appeared in Liusu and Zhangsu.
If it runs abnormally on the dipper star, there will be a fire.
"Taichu Calendar" says that it appears in Spica and Kangsu.
In the Xu position, his name is Qian Mao.
Jupiter rises in the east in the morning of September, and is called Tiansui in "Shishi", appearing in Yisu and Zhensu.
If the star is not functioning properly, floods may occur.
"Gan's" says that it appears in Qixingsu and Yisu.
"Tai Chu Calendar" says that it appears in Di Su, Fang Su and Xin Su.
In the Hai position, his name is Dayuanxian.
Jupiter rises in the east in the morning of October, and "Shishi" is called the Emperor, appearing in Spica and Kangxi.
"Gan's" says that it appears in Zhensu, Jiaosu, and Kangsu.
"Taichu Calendar" says that it appeared in Ojuku and Jisu.
Being in position is called Kundun.
Jupiter emerges from the east in the morning of November, and "Shi" is called Tianzong, appearing in Disu and Fangsu.
It is the same as described in "Ganshi".
"Taichu Calendar" says that Jianxing and Altair appeared.
In the ugly position, his name is Chi Fenruo.
Jupiter rises in the east in the morning of December, and is called Tianhao in "Shishi", appearing in Ojuku and Jijiu.
"Ganshi" says that it appears in Xinsu and Weisu.
"Taichu Calendar" says that it appears in Wunusu, Xusu and Weisu.
The records about Jupiter in "Gan's" and "Taichu Calendar" are different because the speed of the planet's movement comes first, and the recorded sightings in each book come later.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
其四星亦略如此。
古历五星之推，亡逆行者，至甘氏、石氏《经》，以荧惑、太白为有逆行。
夫历者，正行也。
古人有言曰： 天下太平，五星循度，亡有逆行。
日不食朔，月不食望。
夏氏《日月传》曰： 日月食尽，主位也；不尽，臣位也。
《星传》曰： 日者德也，月者刑也，故曰日食修德，月食修刑。
然而历纪推月食，与二星之逆亡异。
荧惑主内乱，太白主兵，月主刑。
自周室衰，乱臣贼子师旅数起，刑罚失中，虽其亡乱臣贼子师旅之变，内臣犹不治，四夷犹不服，兵革犹不寝，刑罚犹不错，故二星与月为之失度，三变常见；及有乱臣贼子伏尸流血之兵，大变乃出，甘、石氏见其常然，因以为纪，皆非正行也。
《诗》云： 彼月而食，则惟其常；此日而食，于何不臧？
《诗传》曰： 月食非常也，比之日食犹常也，日食则不臧矣。
谓之小变，可也；谓之正行，非也。
故荧惑必行十六舍，去日远而颛恣。
太白出西方，进在日前，气盛乃逆行。
及月必食于望，亦诛盛也。
国皇星，大而赤，状类南极。
所以，其下起兵。
兵强，其冲不利。
昭明星，大而白，无角，乍上乍下。
所出国，起兵多变。
五残星，出正东，东方之星。
其状类辰，去地可六丈，大而黄。
六贼星，出正南，南方之星。
去地可六丈，大而赤，数动，有光。
司诡星，出正西，西方之星。
去地可六丈，大而白，类太白。
咸汉星，出正北，北方之星。
去地可六丈，大而赤，数动，察之中青。
此四星所出非其方，其下有兵，冲不利。
translation: 
The same is true for the four stars.
The ancient calendar did not record the retrograde motion of the five stars, but Gan and Shi's "Star Book" recorded the retrograde motion of Mars and Venus.
Ancient almanacs record the normal movement of the five stars.
The ancients said: The world is at peace, the five stars are moving together and there is no retrograde motion.
There will be no eclipse on the first day of the lunar month, and no lunar eclipse on the fifteenth day of the lunar month.
Xia's "Biography of the Sun and the Moon" says: Total eclipses of the sun and moon symbolize the throne; partial eclipses of the sun and the moon symbolize the throne of ministers.
"The Legend of the Stars" says: The sun symbolizes virtue, and the moon symbolizes punishment. Therefore, when a solar eclipse occurs, one should cultivate virtue, and when a lunar eclipse occurs, one should regulate laws.
Therefore, almanac records predict that there is no difference between a lunar eclipse and the retrograde motion of Mars and Venus.
Mars indicates civil strife, Venus indicates war, and the moon indicates imprisonment.
Since the decline of the Zhou Dynasty, the number of rebellious ministers and traitors has increased, and the punishments have been inappropriate. Although they died due to the military coup of the rebellious ministers and traitors, the internal ministers also seemed to be mismanaged, the barbarians seemed to be disobedient, the wars seemed to be unstoppable, and the punishments seemed to be unable to be carried out. Therefore, Venus, Mars and the moon moved out of proportion, and the three changes were common; when a war occurred where the rebellious ministers and traitors lay dead and shed blood, great changes occurred. Gan and Shi observed their patterns and recorded them, saying that these were abnormal operations.
The Book of Songs says: If the moon is covered, it is normal; if the sun is covered, what is unlucky?
"The Book of Songs" says: Lunar eclipses are unusual, but they are more common than eclipses, while solar eclipses are ominous.
It's okay to call it a small change; it's not okay to call it normal operation.
Therefore, Mars must travel sixteen places, far away from the sun and traveling alone.
Venus appears in the west and travels in front of the sun, so its energy is strong and it goes retrograde.
There must be a lunar eclipse in sight, which is also a sign of prosperity.
The King's Star is large and red, shaped like Canopus in Antarctica.
Its appearance heralds the start of war in its divided lands.
The troops in the divided area are strong, and the corresponding side is disadvantaged.
The bright star is big and white in color, its light has no rays and angles, and it rises and falls suddenly.
The divided country corresponding to the star area that appears will encounter many changes when sending troops.
The Five Residual Stars appear due east and are the Eastern Stars.
It is shaped like Mercury, about six feet above the ground, large and yellow in color.
The Six Thieves star appears due south and is the star of the south.
It is about six feet above the ground, large and red in color, flashing repeatedly with light.
Sigui star appears due west and is the star of the west.
It is about six feet above the ground, large, white, and shaped like Venus.
Xianhan star, which appears due north, is the star of the north.
It is about six feet above the ground. It is large and red in color. It flashes many times. If you observe its starlight, you will see that there is cyan in the middle.
These four stars appear in the direction they should not appear. There will be war disasters in the dividing line below them, and the corresponding party will be unfavorable.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
四填星，出四隅，去地可四丈。
地维臧光，亦出四隅，去地可二丈，若月始出。
所见下，有乱者亡，有德者昌。
烛星，状如太白，其出也不行，见则灭。
所烛，城邑乱。
如星非星，如云非云，名曰归邪。
归邪出，必有归国者。
星者，金之散气，其本曰人。
星众，国吉，少则凶。
汉者，亦金散气，其本曰水。
星多，多水，少则旱，其大经也。
天鼓，有音如雷非雷，音在地而下及地。
其所住者，兵发其下。
天狗，状如大流星，有声，其下止地，类狗。
所坠及，望之如火光炎炎中天，其下圜如数顷田处，上锐见则有黄色，千里破军杀将。
格泽者，如炎火之状，黄白，起地而上，下大上锐。
其见也，不种而获。
不有土功，必有大客。
蚩尤之旗，类彗而后曲，象旗。
见则王者征伐四方。
旬始，出于北斗旁，状如雄鸡。
其怒，青黑色，象伏鳖。
枉矢，状类大流星，蛇行而苍黑，望如有毛目然。
长庚，广如一匹布著天。
此星见，起兵。
星坠至地，则石也。
天暒而见景星。
景星者，德星也，其状无常，常出于有道之国。
日有中道，月有九行。
中道者，黄道。一曰光道。
光道北至东井，去北极近；南至牵牛，去北极远；东至角，西至娄，去极中。
夏至至于东井，北近极，故晷短；立八尺之表，而晷景长尺五寸八分。
translation: 
The four-filled stars appear in the southeast, southwest, northeast, and northwest, about four feet above the ground.
The earth-dimensional star hides its light and also appears in the southeast, southwest, northeast, and northwest directions, about two feet above the ground. Its stars look like the moon when it first appeared.
In the dividing land below where it appears, those who are in disorder will perish, and those who are virtuous will prosper.
A candle star is shaped like Venus. It does not move after it appears and disappears shortly after it appears.
Wherever it shines, riots break out in cities.
The kind of comet that looks like a star but not a star, and looks like a cloud but not a cloud is called Guixie.
When Guixi appears, there must be followers.
Stars are metal bodies with energy emitted, and their origin lies in humans.
If there are many stars, the divided country will be auspicious, but if there are few stars, it will be unlucky.
The Milky Way is also a metal body with gas emitted, and its origin is water.
If there are many stars, it indicates floods; if there are few stars, it indicates drought. This is generally the case.
The drum star in the sky makes a sound like thunder but not thunder. The sound is on the ground and reaches the ground.
Where it happened, there were wars taking place in the Divided Lands.
The Tengu star is shaped like a large meteor and has a sound. It falls to the ground and looks like a dog.
The place where it fell looked like a scorching flame rising into the sky. There was a round pit at the bottom, as big as a field, and a sharp top. When it appeared, there was a yellow color, which was a sign of killing a general who had defeated an army thousands of miles away.
Geze star is shaped like a firework, yellow and white in color, rising from the horizon, with a large bottom and a pointed top.
It appears as a sign of its separation, and reaps without sowing.
Without civil engineering work, there must be a banquet for guests.
Chiyou's star is like a comet and its tail is curved like a flag.
The appearance indicates that the emperor will conquer all directions.
The star at the beginning of the tenth month appears next to the Big Dipper and is shaped like a rooster.
The starlight has horns piercing out, blue and black, like a lying turtle.
The Wanyiya star is shaped like a big meteor, it moves in a meandering direction and is dark in color. If you look at it, it looks like it has hairs.
The Chang Geng star is as wide as a piece of cloth hanging in the sky.
There is a war on this planet.
When stars fall to the earth, they become stones.
The sky is clear and the stars appear.
Jingxing is a virtuous star whose behavior is unpredictable and often appears in virtuous countries.
It is said that there is a middle way, and the moon has nine orbits.
The Middle Way refers to the ecliptic, also called the light path.
The light path reaches Shujing in the north, which is close to the celestial pole; it reaches Altair in the south, which is far away from the celestial pole; it reaches Spica in the west, and it reaches Lousu in the west, and it is in the middle from the celestial pole.
The summer solstice moves to Dongjingsu, and the north is close to the celestial pole, so the shadow of the sundial is short. If you set up a standard eight-foot watch, the shadow of the sundial is one foot, five inches and eight minutes long.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
冬至至于牵牛，远极，故晷长；立八尺之表，而晷景长丈三尺一寸四分。
春秋分日至娄、角，去极中，而晷中；立八尺之表，而晷景长七尺三寸六分。
此日去极远近之差，晷景长短之制也。
去极远近难知，要以晷景。
晷景者，所以知日之南北也。
日，阳也。
阳用事则日进而北，昼进而长，阳胜，故为温暑；阴用事则日退而南，昼退而短，阴胜，故为凉寒也。
故日进为暑，退为寒。
若日之南北失节，晷过而长为常寒，退而短为常奥。
此寒奥之表也，故曰为寒暑。
一曰，晷长为潦，短为旱，奢为扶。
扶者，邪臣进而正臣疏，君子不足，奸人有余。
月有九行者：黑道二，出黄道北；赤道二，出黄道南；白道二，出黄道西；青道二，出黄道东。
立春、春分，月东从青道；立秋、秋分，西从白道；立冬、冬至，北从黑道；立夏、夏至，南从赤道。
然用之，一塊房中道。
青赤出阳道，白黑出阴道。
若月失节度而妄行，出阳道则旱风，出阴道则阴雨。
凡君行急则日行疾，君行缓则日行迟。
日行不可指而知也，故以二至二分之星为候。
日东行，星西转，冬至昏，奎八度中；夏至，氐十三度中；春分，柳一度中；秋分，牵牛三度七分中；此其正行也。
日行疾，则星西转疾，事势然也。
故过中则疾，君行急之感也；不及中则迟，君行缓之象也。
translation: 
The winter solstice moves to the Altair constellation, which is far away from the celestial pole, so the shadow of the sundial is long. If a standard meter is set up with eight feet, the shadow of the sundial is one foot, three feet, one inch and four minutes long.
At the spring and autumn equinoxes, the sun reaches Lousu and Spica, and is in the center of the north pole in the sky, so the length of the sundial's shadow is medium. With an eight-foot scale, the sundial's shadow is seven feet, three inches and six minutes long.
At this time, the distance between the sun and the celestial pole is reflected in the length of the sundial shadow.
It is difficult to know how far it is from the North Pole in the sky. The important thing is to use the sundial shadow to determine it.
With the length of the sundial shadow, we can know the north and south position of the sun.
Day, sun.
When Yang Qi is strong, the sun gradually moves to the north, and the days gradually become longer. When Yang prevails, the weather is warm and hot. When Yin Qi is strong, the sun gradually retreats to the south, and the days become shorter. When Yin prevails, the weather is cold.
Therefore, when the sun advances to the north, it is hot, and when it retreats to the south, it is cold.
If the sun loses its rhythm in its north-south motion, the sun's shadow will be too long and it will be cold. If the sun's shadow is too short, it will be hot.
This is a manifestation of cold and heat, so it is called cold and heat.
It is also said that a long sundial shadow means waterlogging, a short sundial shadow means drought, and an excessive one means support.
Support means that evil ministers are by your side but good ministers are far away; there are not enough gentlemen but there are more than enough traitors.
The moon has nine orbits: two black orbits, which appear to the north of the ecliptic; two equatorial orbits, which appear to the south of the ecliptic; two white orbits, which appear to the west of the ecliptic; and two green orbits, which appear on the beam side of the ecliptic.
At the beginning of spring and the vernal equinox, the moon obeys the green path in the east; at the beginning of autumn and the autumnal equinox, the moon obeys the white path in the west; at the beginning of winter and the winter solstice, the moon obeys the black path in the north; at the beginning of summer and summer solstice, the moon obeys the equator in the south.
When judging its trajectory, the most important decision is its position with the middle path passing through the house.
The moon traveling in green and red lanes is moving in the Yang Dao, and the moon traveling in black and white lanes is moving in the vagina.
If the moon loses its normal trajectory and moves erratically, there will be drought and wind when it moves in the Yang Dao, and it will be rainy when it moves in the vagina.
If a king is too strict in governing, things will go quickly; if a king is too lenient in governing, things will be slow.
The movement of the sun cannot be known at a glance, so the stars at the summer solstice, winter solstice, vernal equinox, and autumnal equinox are used to predict the weather.
The sun beams and the stars turn west. At dusk of the winter solstice, the sun is in the eighth degree of Kuisu; in the summer solstice, the sun is in the thirteenth degree of Di; in the spring equinox, the sun is in the first degree of Liusu; in the autumnal equinox, the sun is in the third degree and seventh degree of Altair: the celestial phenomena that create the time are in the right direction.
The faster the sun moves, the faster the stars turn westward. This is the inevitable result of the situation.
Therefore, it is said that if the speed is moderate, it will be fast, which is a sign that the king's governance is too strict; if it is less than moderate, it will be slow, which is a sign that the king's governance is too lenient.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
至月行，则以晦朔决之。
日冬则南，夏则北；冬至于牵牛，夏至于东井。
日之所行为中道，月、五星皆随之也。箕星为风，东北之星也。
东北地事，天位也，故《易》曰： 东北丧朋，及《巽》在东南，为风；风，阳中之阴，大臣之象也，其星，轸也。月去中道，移而东北入箕，若东南入轸，则多风。
西方为雨；雨，少阴之位也。
月失中道，移而西入毕，则多雨。
故《诗》云 月离于毕，俾滂沱矣 ，言多雨也。
《星传》曰 月入毕则将相有以家犯罪者 ，言阴盛也。
《书》曰 星有好风，星有好雨，月之从星，则以风雨 ，言失中道而东西也。
故《星传》曰： 月南入牵牛南戒，民间疾疫；月北入太微，出坐北，若犯坐，则下人谋上。
一曰月为风雨，日为寒温。
冬至日南极，晷长，南不极则温为害；夏至日北极，晷短，北不极则寒为害。
故《书》曰 日月之行，则有冬有夏 也。
政治变于下，日月运于上矣。
月出房北，为雨为阴，为乱为兵；出房南，为旱为夭丧。
水旱至冲而应，及五星之变，必然之效也。
两军相当，日晕等，力均；厚长大，有胜；薄短小，亡胜。
重抱，大破亡。
抱为和，背为不和，为分离相去。
直为自立，立兵破军，若曰杀将。
抱且戴，有喜。
围在中，中胜；在外，外胜。
青外赤中，以和相去；赤外青中，以恶相去。
气晕先至而后去，居军胜。
先至先去，前有利，后有病，后至后去，前病后利；后至先去，前后皆病，居军不胜。
见而去，其发疾，虽胜亡功。
translation: 
When it comes to the movement of the moon, it is judged by Hui Shuo.
The sun is tilted south in winter and north in summer; the winter solstice is in Qianniu Su, and the summer solstice is in Shujing Su.
When it comes to "The Book of Changes". "Xun Gua" says that in the southeast, it is the wind; the wind is the yin in the yang, it is a sign of the ministers, and the star indicated is Zhensu.
The moon leaves the middle path and moves to the northeast and enters Jisu. If it moves to the southeast and enters Zhensu, it will be windy.
Moving to the west means there will be rain; rain is the sign of Shaoyin.
When the moon leaves the middle path and moves westward into Bisu, it will be rainy.
Therefore, the Book of Songs says that the moon leaves Bisu and causes heavy rain, which refers to a rainy situation.
"The Legend of the Stars" says that when the moon moves into Biju, the sign will be implicated in a crime due to family affairs, which is said to be Yin Sheng.
"The Book" says that there are stars with good winds and stars with good rains. If the moon moves near these stars, there will be wind and rain. It means that the moon deviates from the middle and moves east and west.
Therefore, it is said in "The Legend of the Stars" that the moon moves south to the south of Altair. There are epidemic diseases among the people; the moon moves north into Taiwei Yuan and appears to the north of the Five Emperors' Seat. If it violates the Five Emperors' Seat, there will be situations where people in lower positions will seek to ascend.
Another saying is that the moon represents wind and rain, and the sun represents cold and temperature.
At the winter solstice, the sun should be at the South Pole, and the sundial shadow is the longest. If the sun does not move to the south pole, the temperature will be excessive. During the summer solstice, the sun should be at the north pole, and the sundial shadow will be the shortest. If the sun moves northward and does not reach the north pole, the cold will cause damage.
Therefore, the "Book" says that when the moon moves, there will be winter and summer.
In the human world it is political changes, in the sky it is the movement of the sun and the moon.
When the moon appears in the north of a house, it symbolizes cloudy weather, rain, and war; when the moon appears in the south of a house, it signifies drought or natural mourning.
Floods and droughts occur in the areas corresponding to the divided countries. When the five-star mutation appears, the above conditions will definitely have an effect.
When two armies face each other, if the halo of the sun is equal, they are evenly matched; if the halo is thick, long and large, there will be victory; if the halo is thin, short and small, there will be no victory.
If the halo surrounds you multiple times, there will be a big defeat.
The halo surrounding the sun is harmony, and the halo facing away from the sun is disharmony, which is a sign of separation.
The halo is always a sign that you have performed meritorious deeds, which can help the army defeat the enemy, or kill the general.
The halo of light surrounds the sun above, indicating good luck.
Clouds within the halo indicate victory in the city; clouds outside the halo indicate victory outside the city.
When the halo is green outside and red inside, there is peace and harmony; when there is red outside and green inside, the two are at odds with each other.
If the halo appears first and then leaves, the defender wins.
If the halo appears first and then leaves, the defenders will be in an advantage at first, but will be defeated later; if the halo appears later and then leaves, the defenders will be defeated after losing first; if the halo appears later and then leaves, both front and rear will be defeated, and the defenders will not be victorious.
As soon as it appears, it will go away, and resentment will occur later, although the victory is in vain.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
见半日以上，功大。白虹屈短，上下锐，有者下大流血。
日晕制胜，近期三十日，远期六十日。
其食，食所不利；复生，生所利；不然，食尽为主位。
以其直及日所躔加日时，用名其国。
凡望云气，仰而望之，三四百里；平望，在桑榆上，千余里，二千里；登高而望之，下属地者居三千里。
云气有兽居上者，胜。
自华以南，气下黑上赤。
嵩高、三河之郊，气正赤。
常山以北，气下黑上青。
勃、碣、海、岱之间，气皆黑。
江、淮之间，气皆白。
徒气白。
土功气黄。
车气乍高乍下，往往而聚。
骑气卑而布。
卒气抟。
前卑而后高者，疾；前方而后高者，锐；后锐而卑者，却。
其气平者其行徐。
前高后卑者，不止而反。
气相遇者，卑胜高，锐胜方。
气来卑而循车道者，不过三四日，去之五六里见。
气来高七八尺者，不过五六日，去之十余二十里见。
气来高丈余二丈者，不过三四十日，去之五六十里见。
捎云精白者，其将悍，其士怯。
其大根而前绝远者，战。
精白，其芒低者，战胜；其前赤而印者，战不胜。
陈云如立垣。
杼云类杼。
柚云抟而耑锐。
杓云如绳者，居前竟天，其半半天。
蜺云者，类斗旗故。
钩云句曲。
诸此云见，以五色占。
而泽抟密，其见动人，乃有占；兵必起，合斗其直。
王朔所候，决于日旁。
日旁云气，人主象。
皆如其形以占。
故北夷之气如群畜穹闾，南夷之气类舟船幡旗。
translation: 
If the power is great for more than half a day, the white rainbow will be curved and short, with sharp tops and bottoms. If such a situation occurs, there will be a bloody disaster in the area below.
The situation of defeating the enemy and winning as indicated by the halo will be fulfilled in the near future thirty days and in the long term sixty days.
For a solar eclipse, the division corresponding to the star sector where the eclipse begins is unfavorable; the division corresponding to the star sector where the sun recovers is favorable; otherwise, the total solar eclipse will be fulfilled by the king.
Use the place where the solar eclipse occurs and the degree of the sun's movement plus the time of the solar eclipse to correspond to the location to show its country.
When looking at clouds, if you look up and look at it, you can only see it for three or four hundred miles; if you look straight down, or above the mulberry or elm trees, you can measure more than a thousand or two thousand miles; if you climb up and look at it, if you look down at the ground, it can measure up to three thousand miles.
Those whose clouds are like beasts and stay in the sky above the ground are victorious.
From the south of Huashan Mountain, the sky is black under the clouds and red above.
In the suburbs of Songgao and Sanhe, the clouds are bright red.
To the north of Changshan Mountain, the sky is black under the clouds and green above.
The clouds between Bohai, Jieshan, Dahai and Mount Tai are all black.
Between the Yangtze River and the Huaihe River, the clouds are all white.
The clouds that foretell service are white in color.
Clouds that indicate civil engineering are yellow in color.
The clouds that foretell car battles rise and fall, and gather together.
The clouds that foretell a mounted battle are low and spread.
Reunion of clouds that heralds the battle of infantry.
If the front is low and the back is high, it means rapid advancement; if the front is high and the back is high, morale is sharp; if the back is sharp and low, it means retreat.
The clouds are flat and moving slowly.
Those who are high in the front and low in the back will not stop coming back.
When two qi meet, low wins over high, and sharp wins over square.
The clouds move forward low and follow the road, but within three or four days, signs will appear at places five or six miles away.
The clouds move seven or eight feet high, but within five or six days, they will show symptoms after traveling more than ten or twenty miles.
The clouds move more than one foot or two feet high, but they only last thirty or forty days, and the signs appear after they are fifty or sixty miles away.
The color of the floating clouds is blue and white, indicating that its generals are strong and its soldiers are weak.
If the roots of the cloud are large and far away, it indicates a battle.
If the clouds are blue and white, those with low awning angles will be victorious; those with red front ends and upwards will be invincible.
The clouds formed like formations like towering city walls.
The fusiform clouds resemble shuttles.
Pomelo-shaped clouds with pointed ends.
The dipper-shaped clouds stretched across the sky in front like ropes, dividing the sky into two halves.
Colorful clouds look like battle flags.
Hook-shaped clouds arranged in curved hooks.
When clouds appear in these states, use five colors to predict them.
Among them, the clouds, which are moist in color, lumpy and dense, are very moving when they appear, so they have the meaning of divination; they indicate that there will be war in the place where they divide.
The divination made by Wang Shuo said that it depended on the cloud phenomena near the sun.
The clouds near the sun represent the sign of entering the Lord.
You can use the shape of clouds to predict.
Therefore, the atmosphere of the Northern Yi is like a herd of animals in a dome, and the atmosphere of the Southern Yi is like a boat and sail flag.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
大水处，败军场，破国之虚，下有积泉，金宝上，皆有气，不可不察。
海旁蜃气象楼台，广野气成宫阙然。
云气各象其山川人民所聚积。
故候息耗者，入国邑，视封疆田畴之整治，城郭室屋门户之润泽，次至车服畜产精华。
实息者吉，虚耗者凶。
若烟非烟，若云非云，郁郁纷纷，萧索轮囷，是谓庆云。
庆云见，喜气也。
若雾非雾，衣冠不濡，见则其城被甲而趋。
夫雷电、赮虹、辟历、夜明者，阳气之动者也，春夏则发，秋冬则藏，故候书者亡不司。
天开县物，地动坼绝。山崩及，川塞溪垘；水澹地长，泽竭见象。
城郭门闾，润息槁枯；宫庙廓第，人民所次。
谣俗车服，观民饮食。
五谷草木，观其所属。
仓府厩库，四通之路。
六畜禽兽，所产去就；鱼鳖鸟鼠，观其所处。
鬼哭若呼，与人逢栘。
讹言，诚然。
凡候岁美恶，谨候岁始。
岁始或冬至日，产气始萌。
腊明日，人众卒岁，壹会饮食，发阳气，故曰初岁。
正月旦，王者岁首；立春，四明之始也。
四始者，候之日。
而汉魏鲜集腊明正月旦决八风。
风从南，大旱；西南，小旱；西方，有兵；西北，戎叔为，小雨，趣兵；北方，为中岁；东北，为上岁；东方，大水；东南，民有疾疫，岁恶。
故八风各与其冲对，课多者为胜。
translation: 
Places where great floods occur, battlefields where defeated armies are defeated, cities where ruined kingdoms exist, places where ancient coins are found underground, and places where gold and silver treasures are located all have Qi, and must be examined.
The clouds in the mirage are like towers, and the clouds in the vast field create the appearance of the palace.
The various weather conditions of the clouds are the accumulated reflections of the people, mountains, rivers, situation and temperament on the ground.
Therefore, when it comes to prosperity or waste, we need to go deep into the country to check the state of the territory and fields, whether the city, houses, and houses are moist, and then check whether the vehicles, clothing, and livestock are of high quality.
Weather is auspicious for growth, but dangerous for waste.
If the smoke is not smoke, it looks like clouds but not clouds, the clouds are lush and sparsely distributed in the shape of a circular trapped warehouse, which is the so-called Qingyun.
When Qingyun appears, the Lord is happy.
If the fog is not mist, and the clouds do not wet the clothes, if they appear, it means that the city is wearing armor and marching quickly.
Thunder and lightning, rainbow clouds, thunderbolts, and the appearance of aurora at night are weather conditions affected by Yang Qi. They appear in spring and summer and disappear in autumn and winter, so fortune tellers and recorders all observe them.
In terms of natural phenomena, we need to observe the physical phenomena revealed by the opening of the sky. Earthquakes caused by earthquakes cause fractures, landslides collapse, and mountains and rivers are blocked; water gushes out of the ground, and large swamps dry up. These are all signs.
In terms of human affairs, we should inspect the cities, alleys, and villages, their gains and losses, their palaces, temples, corridors, and the residences of the people.
Folk songs, customs, riding, clothing, and the diet of the people.
Grains, grass and trees, see where they belong.
Cangfu stables, four roads.
The six livestocks and beasts, the products go and stay; the fish, turtles, birds and mice, watch where they are.
Ghosts cry and howl when they meet people.
Some discrepancies, but true.
When predicting good or bad luck for a year, you should carefully observe the beginning of the year.
On the first day of the year or the winter solstice, anger begins to appear.
On the day of the twelfth lunar month, people begin to celebrate the new year. Everyone gathers for a feast. At this time, the yang energy rises, so it is called the first year of the year.
The first day of the first lunar month is the beginning of the year; it is the first year prescribed by the king. Beginning of spring, the beginning of the four seasons.
These four beginnings are the days of waiting.
Therefore, the Han Dynasty, Wei Dynasty and North Korea judged the eight winds on the twelfth day of the twelfth lunar month and the first day of the first lunar month.
If the wind comes from the south, there will be a severe drought; from the southwest, there will be a small drought; in the west, there will be war; in the northwest, there will be a good soybean harvest, light rain, and a rush to raise troops; in the north, there will be a moderate harvest; in the northeast, it will be a good year; in the east, there will be floods; in the southeast, there will be epidemic diseases among the people and the harvest will be very bad.
Therefore, each of the eight winds corresponds to eight places, and the one with more of them wins.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
多胜少，久胜亟，疾胜徐。
旦至食，为麦；食至日跌，为稷；跌至晡，为黍；晡至下晡，为叔；下晡至日入，为麻。
欲终日有云，有风，有日，当其时，深而多实；亡云，有风日，当其时，浅而少实；有云风，亡日，当其时，深而少实；有日，亡云，不风，当其时者稼有败。
如食顷，小败；孰五斗米顷，大败。
风复起。有云，其稼复起。
各以其时用云色占种所宜。雨雪，寒，岁恶。
是日光明，听都邑人民之声。
声宫，则岁美，吉；商，有兵；徵，旱；羽，水；角，岁恶。
或从正月旦比数雨。
率日食一升，至七升而极；过之，不占。
数至十二日，直其月，占水旱。
为其环域千里内占，即为天下候，竟正月。
月所离列宿，日、风、云，占其国。
必然察太岁所在。
金，穰；水，毁；木，饥；火，旱。
此其大经也。
正月上甲，风从东方来，宜蚕；从西方来，若旦有黄云，恶。
冬至短极，县土炭，炭动，麋鹿解角，兰根出，泉出踊，略以知日至，要决晷景。
夫天运三十岁一小变，百年中变，五百年大变，三大变一起，三纪而大备，此其大数也。
春秋二百四十二年间，日食三十六，彗星三见，夜常星不见，夜中星陨如雨者各一。
translation: 
More is better than less, long is better than short, fast is better than slow.
From the time of eating in the morning to the time when the sun is shining, it is to predict the harvest of millet; from the time when the sun is shining to the noon time, it is to predict the harvest of millet; from the time of noon to the afternoon time, it is to predict the harvest of soybeans; from the time of feeding to the sunrise time, it is to predict the harvest of hemp.
If there are clouds, wind, and sun on the first day of the first lunar month, it means that the crops will be prosperous and the harvest will be abundant; if there are no clouds and there is wind, the harvest will be poor and there will be few seeds; if there are clouds, wind, and sun, it will mean that the crops will be lush but there will be few seeds; if there are sun, no clouds, and no wind, it will mean that the crops will be poor that year.
If there is only a short period of time without clouds and wind, it is a small harvest failure; if it takes as long as five buckets of rice to be steamed, it is a big failure.
There is no wind and then there is wind, and there are clouds, which indicates that the crops will be damaged and then improved that year.
The color of the clouds at that time is used to predict the crops suitable for cultivation. Rain, snow, and cold indicate that the weather will be very bad that year.
When the sun shines brightly, listen to the voices of the people in the cities.
If the sound is like a palace tune, the year will be good and auspicious; if the sound is like a Shang tune, there will be wars; if the sound is like a Zheng tune, there will be droughts that year; if the sound is like a feather tune, there will be floods that year; if the sound is like a horn tune, the year will be extremely bad.
Or count the number of rainy days together at the beginning of the first month.
One day of rain indicates that the people have one liter of food, and seven liters is the limit; anything after seven days does not count.
From the first to the twelfth day of the lunar month, it can be made equivalent to January to December. Depending on whether it is sunny or rainy, it can account for floods and droughts for twelve months a year.
This is a symbol within a thousand miles radius. To prepare for the world, it must be carried out throughout the first month.
Use the twenty-eight constellations that the moon passes through? The wind and clouds occupy the country corresponding to the weather.
But you must check where Tai Sui is.
Venus represents a good harvest; Mercury represents a poor harvest; Jupiter represents a famine; Mars represents a drought.
This is a rough idea.
On the first day of the first lunar month, the wind comes from the east, which is suitable for raising silkworms; the wind comes from the west, and if there are yellow clouds in the morning, it is unlucky.
The winter solstice has the shortest day. Three days before the winter solstice, charcoal is hung on one end of the weighing instrument and soil is hung on the other end to keep the weighing instrument in a balanced state. When the charcoal hanging end sinks, or elk sheds its antlers, orchid roots sprout, or spring water gushes, the arrival of the winter solstice can be roughly known. The key is to measure the sundial shadow to determine the arrival of the winter solstice.
The destiny of heaven changes slightly in thirty years, changes in the middle of a hundred years, and changes greatly in five hundred years. The three major changes become one era, and the three eras are a complete cycle. This is the Qi number of the way of heaven.
In the two hundred and forty-two years of the Spring and Autumn Period, thirty-six solar eclipses occurred, three comets appeared, no stars appeared at night, and meteorites rained down once each in the middle of the night.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
当是时，祸乱辄应，周室微弱，上下交怨，杀君三十六，亡国五十二，诸侯奔走不得保其社稷者不可胜数。
自是之后，众暴寡，大并小。
秦、楚、吴、粤，夷狄也，为强伯。
田氏篡齐，三家分晋，并为战国，争于攻取，兵革递起，城邑数屠，因以饥馑疾疫愁苦，臣主共忧患，其察禨祥候星气尤急。
近世二十诸候七国相王，言从横者继踵，而占天文者因时务论书传，故其占验鳞杂米盐，亡可录者。
周卒为秦所灭。
始皇之时，十五年间彗星四见，久者八十日，长或竟天。
后秦遂以兵内兼六国，外攘四夷，死人如乱麻。又荧惑守心，及天市芒角，色赤如鸡血。
始皇既死，適、庶相杀，二世即位，残骨肉，戮将相，太白再经天。
因以张楚并兴，失相跆籍，秦遂以亡。
项羽救巨鹿，枉矢西流。
枉矢所触，天下之所伐射，灭亡象也。
物莫直于矢，今蛇行不能直而枉者，执矢者亦不正，以象项羽执政乱也。
羽遂合从，坑秦人，屠咸阳。
凡枉矢之流，以乱伐乱也。
汉元年十月，五星聚于东井，以历推之，从岁星也。
此高皇帝受命之符也。
故客谓张耳曰： 东井秦地，汉王入秦，五星从岁星聚，当以义取天下。
秦王子婴降于枳道，汉王以属吏，宝器妇女亡所取，闭宫封门，还军次于霸上，以候诸候。
与秦民约法三章，民亡不归必者，可谓能行义矣，天之所予也。
五年遂定天下，即帝位。
此明岁星之崇义，东井为秦之地明效也。
translation: 
At this time, disasters appeared one after another, the Zhou Dynasty was weak, the subjects were resentful, regicide occurred thirty-six times, the country was destroyed fifty-two times, and the princes fled and could not save their country in countless cases.
Since then, the powerful have bullied the powerful, and big countries have absorbed small ones.
Qin, Chu, Wu, and Yue were originally states of Yi and Di, but they have since become powerful vassal states.
The Tian family usurped the Qi Dynasty, and the three families were divided into the Jin Dynasty. At the same time, the Warring States Period was formed. They competed to capture, wars progressed, and cities were massacred several times. Therefore, famine and epidemics caused sorrow, and the monarchs and ministers were all worried. At that time, divination, inspections, and ghosts and gods were especially urgent, and the prediction of stars was particularly urgent.
In modern times, the twelve princes of the Spring and Autumn Period, the prime ministers of the seven states of the Warring States Period, and strategists who advocated vertical and horizontal movements came one after another. People who were engaged in astronomical predictions followed the situation at that time and recorded and wrote books on predictions. Therefore, the records of their predictions were mixed, and there was nothing to record.
The Zhou army was destroyed by the Qin army.
During the Qin Shihuang era, comets appeared all over the place for fifteen years. The longest time they appeared was eighty days, and their length could span the sky.
Later, the Qin State gradually used troops to annex the six kingdoms at home, and pacified the barbarians outside. People died like hemp. There were also celestial phenomena in which Mars stayed in the heart and awns appeared in Tianshiyuan, and the color was as red as chicken blood.
After the death of Qin Shihuang, the people were killing each other. When the second generation came to the throne, they killed each other and killed generals. Venus once again appeared to pass through the midheaven.
Therefore, Chen Sheng, Wu Guang and others revolted together, and the army trampled them, and Qin was destroyed.
When Xiang Yu was rescuing the giant deer, the Wanshi star slid westward.
Wherever the Wandering Star reaches, it indicates that there will be war in the world and is a sign of destruction.
Nothing can be straight like an arrow. Now the Wandering Arrow star is meandering across the sky and cannot go straight, which symbolizes that the person holding the arrow is not upright, and symbolizes Xiang Yu's political chaos.
Xiang Yu then merged his troops, encircled and killed the Qin soldiers, and massacred Xianyang.
Whenever the Wandering Star appears, it is a sign of chaos and chaos.
In October of the first year of the Han Dynasty, the five stars gathered at Shujing Su. According to the calendar, the other four stars should follow the Sui star.
This was the sign that Emperor Gao was enthroned.
Therefore, a guest said to Zhang Er: The dividing line of Shujingsu is in the land of Qin. When the king of Han entered Qin, the five stars obeyed and the stars of the year gathered together. It was the time to conquer the world with righteousness.
Prince Ying of Qin surrendered at Zhidao, and the King of Han ordered his subordinate officials not to take any treasures or women, but to close the palace gate tightly and return to guard Ba Shang to welcome Xiang Yu and other princes.
He made a three-part agreement with the people of the Qin State. If the people have no desire to surrender, he can be said to be able to do righteousness. This is a gift from heaven.
Therefore, within five years he had pacified the world and ascended the throne.
This proves that the year star shows its meaning, and Dongjing Su indicates the land of Qin. This is a clear proof.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
三年秋，太白出西方，有光几中，乍北乍南，过期乃入。
辰星出四孟。
是时，项羽为楚王，而汉已定三秦，与相距荥阳。
太白出西方，有光几中，是秦地战将胜，而汉国将兴也。
辰星出四孟，易主之表也。
后二年，汉灭楚。
七年，月晕，围参、毕七重。
占曰： 毕、昴间，天街也；街北，胡也；街南，中国也。
昴为匈奴，参为赵，毕为边兵。
是岁高皇帝自将兵击匈奴，至平城，为冒顿单于所围，七日乃解。
十二年春，荧惑守心。
四月，宫车晏驾。
孝惠二年，天开东北，广十余丈，长二十余丈。
地动，阴有余；天裂，阳不足：皆下盛强将害上之变也。
其后有吕氏之乱。
孝文后二年正月壬寅，天夕出西南。
占曰： 为兵丧乱。
其六年十一月，匈奴入上郡、云中，汉起三军以卫京师。
其四月乙巳，水、木、火三合于东井。
占曰： 外内有兵与丧，改立壬公。
东井，秦也。
八月，天狗下梁野，是岁诛反者周殷长安市。
其七年六月，文帝崩。
其十一月戊戌，土、水合于危。
占曰： 为雍沮，所当之国不可举事用兵，必受其殃。
一曰将覆军。
危，齐也。
其七月，火东行，行毕阳，环毕东北，出而西，逆行至昴，即南乃东行。
占曰： 为丧死寇乱。
毕、昴，赵也。
孝景元年正月癸酉，金、水合于婺女。
占曰： 为变谋，为兵忧。
婺女，粤也，又为齐。
其七月乙丑，金、木、水三合于张。
占曰： 外内有兵与丧，改立王公。
translation: 
In the autumn of the third year of Emperor Mogao's reign, Venus appeared in the west. The starlight was almost close to me, moving north and south, and then disappeared after the due date.
Mercury appears in the first month of the seasons.
At that time, Xiang Yu was the king of Chu, and Liu Bang had already pacified the Sanqin area and faced him in Rongyang area.
Venus appears in the west, and the starlight is almost close to it, which is a sign that Qin will win a battle and the desert country will rise.
Mercury appears in the first month of the seasons and is a symbol of the changing king.
Two years later, Han defeated Chu.
In the seventh year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, the moon had a halo, and there were seven layers of halo surrounding Rigel and Bijie.
The people who accounted for the position said: Between Bisu and Pleiades is Tianjie; the north of Tianjie symbolizes Hu Di; the south of Tianjie symbolizes the country of the Central Plains.
Pleiades symbolizes the Xiongnu, Rigel symbolizes traveling to the country, and Bisu symbolizes the frontier army.
This year Emperor Gao personally led a large army to attack the Xiongnu. When they arrived at Pingcheng, they were besieged by Maodun Shanyu and it took seven days to relieve the siege.
In the spring of the twelfth year of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, Mars stayed in the heart.
In April, the emperor died.
In the second year of Emperor Xiaohui's reign, there was a crack in the sky in the northeast, which was more than ten feet wide and twenty feet long.
There is an earthquake, which means there is an excess of Yin energy; a crack in the sky means that there is a lack of Yang energy: these are all changes that indicate that the power of the subordinates will harm the Lord.
Later there was the Lu Rebellion.
On Renyin day of the first month of the second year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, stars appeared in the southwest in the evening.
The person who predicted the situation said: This is a sign of war and chaos.
In November of the sixth year, the Xiongnu invaded Shangjun and Yunzhong, and the Han Dynasty launched three armies to defend the capital.
In April of this year, the three stars Mercury, Jupiter, and Mars appeared together in Shujing.
The person who predicts the future says: If there are wars and funerals inside and outside, a new prince will be established.
Shujingsu indicates the land of Qin.
In August, the Heavenly Dog star fell in Liangdi, and Zhou Yin, the man who was killed in Chang'an that year, was shown to the public.
In June of the seventh year, Emperor Wen died.
In November of this year, Saturn and Mercury appeared in the constellation.
The person who occupies the position said: This is a sign of congestion. Countries corresponding to the divisions cannot raise troops, otherwise they will suffer disaster.
Another said that the whole army will be annihilated.
When the place is in danger, the Lord shows the land.
In July of this year, Mars traveled to the south of Aldea, then around the northeast of Aldea, then moved out of Aldea to the west, retrograded to the Pleiades, and then moved south and east.
The person who predicts the time said: It is a sign of death, mourning and banditry.
Bisu and Pleiades are signs of traveling to the earth.
On Guiyou day of the first month of the first year of Xiaojing, Venus and Mercury appeared together in Wu Nu Su.
Those who are waiting for it say: It is a sign of change and a sign of military danger.
The hostess of Wu shows the land beyond, and the host shows the land evenly.
In July of this year, in Yi Chou, Venus, Jupiter, and Mercury appeared together in Zhang Su.
Those who predict the future say: There are wars and funerals inside and outside, which are signs of a new king.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
张，周地，今之河南也，又为楚。
其二年七月丙子，火与水晨出东方，因守斗。
占曰： 其国绝祀。
至其十二月，水、火合于斗。
占曰： 为淬，不可举事用兵，必受其殃。
一曰： 为北军，用兵举事大败。
斗，吴也，又为粤。
是岁彗星出西南。
其三月，立六皇子为王，王淮阳、汝南、河间、临江、长沙、广川。
其三年，吴、楚、胶西、胶东、淄川、济南、赵七国反。
吴、楚兵无至攻梁，胶西、胶东、淄川三国攻围齐。
汉遣大将军周亚夫等戍止河南，以候吴、楚之敝，遂败之。
吴王亡走粤，粤攻而杀之，平阳侯败三国之师于齐，咸伏其辜，齐王自杀。
汉兵以水攻赵城，城坏，王自杀。
六月，立皇子二人，楚元王子一人为王，王胶西、中山、楚。
徙济北为淄川王，淮阳为鲁王，汝南为江都王。
七月，兵罢。
天狗下，占为 破军杀将。
狗，又守御类也，天狗所降，以戒守御。
吴、楚攻梁，梁坚城守，遂伏尸流血其下。
三年，填星在娄，几入，还居奎，奎，鲁也。
占曰： 其国得地为得填。
是岁鲁为国。
四年七月癸未，火入东并，行阴，又以九月己未入舆鬼，戊寅出。
占曰： 为诛罚，又为火灾。
后二年，有栗氏事。
其后未央东阙灾。
中元年，填星当在觜觿，参，去居东井。
占曰： 亡地，不乃有女忧。
其二年正月丁亥，金、木合于觜觿，为白衣之会。
三月丁酉，彗星夜见西北，色白，长丈，在觜觿，且去益小，十五日不见。
占曰： 必有破国乱君，伏死其辜。
translation: 
Zhang Zhu showed the land of Zhou, which is now Henan, and also indicated the land of Chu.
On Bingzi in July of the second year, Mars and Mercury appeared in the east in the morning, so they stayed in the Dou constellation.
The people who hold the position say: In the divided country, sacrifices will be cut off.
In December of that year, Mercury and Mars appeared together in the constellation Dipper.
The person who was waiting said, "This is quenching. You cannot use troops to do anything, otherwise you will suffer harm."
Another saying: It indicates that the army in the north will be defeated if it uses troops.
Dou Su indicates the land of Wu and the land of Yue.
The comet appeared in the southwest that year.
In March, the six princes were made kings and guarded Huaiyang, Runan, Helu, Linjiang, Changsha and Guangchuan.
In three years, the seven kingdoms of Wu, Chu, Jiaoxi, Micelle, Zichuan, Jinan, and Tong rebelled.
The troops of Wu and Chu arrived first to attack Liang, and the three kingdoms of Jiaoxi, Miaojie, and Zichuan besieged Qi.
The Han Dynasty sent General Zhou Yafu and others to garrison Henan to wait for the enemies of Wu and Chu to reveal their weaknesses, and then defeated them.
King Wu fled to Yue, but Yue attacked him and killed him. Pingyang Hou defeated the armies of the three countries in Qi, punished them for their crimes, and the King of Qi committed suicide.
The Han army attacked the country with water, the city was destroyed, and King Zhao committed suicide.
In the sixth month, two princes and one son of King Chu Yuan were made kings to guard Jiaoxi, Zhongshan and Chu State.
Change the title of King of Jibei to Zi! King, the King of Huaiyang is the King of Lu, and the King of Runan is the King of Jiangdu.
In July, the war ended.
When the Tengu star falls, the fortune teller says: It is a sign that the army will be destroyed and the general will be killed.
The Tengu star symbolizes defense, and the reason why the Tengu star comes is to warn and protect the people.
Wu State and Chu State attacked Liang State, but Liang State held firm, so there were corpses and bloodshed in the divided area.
For three years, Saturn was in Lousu, almost disappeared, then reappeared, and returned to Kuisu.
The place where Kuisu separates is the state of Lu. The fortune teller said: This country gained land because of the planet Saturn.
In the year of Zainian, King Lu was sealed.
On the last day of July in the fourth month of Gui, Mars moved into Shujing constellation and traveled to the north of the ecliptic. On the last day of September 9, Mars moved into Yugui constellation, and Wuyin moved out of the constellation.
The person who occupies the time said: It is a sign of punishment and a sign of fire.
In the next two years, something happened with Li.
Later, there was a fire at Shumen of Weiyang Palace.
In the first year of Zhongyuan in Xiaojing, Saturn was in the constellations of Pengpeng and Ritel, but left to stay in Dongjing constellation.
The person who holds the horoscope said: If you die, you may be worried about the heroine.
On the day of Dinghai in the first month of the second year, Venus and Jupiter were both in the constellation Cang, which was a symbol of the funeral with the meeting in white.
On Dingyou Day in March, a comet appeared in the northwest at night. The star was white and ten feet long. It was located in the constellation Gongyi. It became smaller and smaller as it left, and disappeared after fifteen days.
Those who hold the position say: There will be a situation that will destroy the country and disrupt the monarch, and the perpetrators will be punished.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
觜觿，梁也。
其五月甲午，金、木俱在东进。
戊戌，金去木留，守之二十日。
占曰： 伤成于戊。
木为诸侯，诛将行于诸侯也。
其六月壬戌，蓬星见西南，在房南，去房可二丈，大如二斗器，色白；癸亥，在心东北，可长丈所；甲子，在尾北，可六丈；丁卯，在箕北，近汉，稍小，且去时，大如桃。
壬申去，凡十日。
占曰： 蓬星出，必有乱臣。
房、心间，天子宫也。
是时，梁王欲为汉嗣，使人杀汉争臣袁盎。
汉按诛梁大臣，斧戊用。
梁王恐惧，布车入关，伏斧戊谢罪，然后得免。
中三年十一月庚午夕，金、火合于虚，相去一寸。
占曰： 为铄，为丧。
虚，齐也。
四年四月丙申，金、木合于东井。
占曰： 为白衣之会。
井，秦也。
其五年四月乙巳，水、火合于参。
占曰： 国不吉。
参，梁也。
其六年四月，梁孝王死。
五月，城阳王、济阴王死。
六月，成阳公主死。
出入三月，天子四衣白，临邸第。
后元年五月壬午，火、金合于舆鬼之东北，不至柳，出舆鬼北可五寸。
占曰： 为铄，有丧。
舆鬼，秦也。
丙戌，地大动，铃铃然，民大疫死，棺贵，至秋止。
孝武建元三年三月，有星孛于注、张，历太微。干紫宫，至于天汉。
《春秋》 星孛于北斗，齐、宋、晋之君皆将死乱。
今星孛历五宿，其后济东、胶西、江都王皆坐法削黜自杀，淮阳、衡山谋反而诛。
三年四月，有星孛于天纪，至织女。
translation: 
Gong Yisu, the Lord shows the Liang land.
On Jiawu Day in May this year, both Venus and Jupiter were in Shujing.
On Wuxu Day, Venus left and Jupiter stayed behind for twenty days.
The person who holds the position says: The damage was caused by the battle axe.
Jupiter indicates the princes, and execution will be carried out among the princes.
In the sixth month of Renxu of this year, Pengxing appeared in the southwest, south of Fangsu, about two feet away from Fangsu, as big as two buckets of utensils, and white in color; on Guihai day, it was northeast of Ansu, about more than ten feet long; on Jiazi day, it was north of Osu, about six feet long; on Dingmao day, it was north of Jisu, close to the Milky Way, slightly smaller, and as big as a peach when it was about to leave.
Ren Shen left on ten days in total.
The fortune teller said: When the Pengxing appears, there will be troublesome ministers.
Between the house and the heart is the celestial palace.
At this time, the King of Liang wanted to succeed the Han Dynasty, so he sent people to kill Yuan An, a dissatisfied minister of the Han Dynasty.
According to the official regulations of the Han Dynasty, Minister Liang should be killed, and the ax and the iron were combined.
The King of Liang was frightened, so he entered the pass with a cloth chariot, confessed his crime, and was spared.
On the evening of Gengwu in the eleventh month of the third year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, Venus and Mars were in the same constellation, an inch away from each other.
The person who predicts the time said: It is smelting, and it is a symbol of mourning.
Xusu, the place of separation is the state of Qi.
In April Bingshen of the fourth year, Venus and Jupiter appeared together in Shujing.
The waiter said: There will be a funeral for the White Clothes Association.
Shujingsu, the dividing line is the state of Qin.
In the fourth month of the fifth year, Yisi said, Mercury and Mars appeared together in Rigel.
The person who predicts the future says: The country in which it is separated is unlucky.
Rigel, the place of separation is the Liang Kingdom.
In April of the sixth year, King Xiao of Liang passed away.
In May, King Chengyang and King Jiyin passed away.
In June, Princess Chengyang passed away.
Within three months, the emperor wore mourning clothes and visited the palace four times.
On Renwu, the first month of the first year after Xiaojing, Mars and Venus were both in the northeast of Yugui, but less than Liusu, and appeared about five inches north of Yugui.
The person who predicted it said: It is smelting, and there is a funeral.
The ghosts stay here, and the Lord shows the Qin State.
Bingxu said, there was a big earthquake, there was a sound of bells, there was an epidemic among the people, people died, and the coffins were expensive, and it didn't stop until autumn.
In March of the third year of Xiaowu's reign, a comet was seen in Liusu and Zhangsu. It passed through Taiweiyuan, invaded the Zigong star area, and reached the Milky Way.
"Spring and Autumn" says that when comets appear in the Big Dipper, the kings of Qi, Song, and Jin will all die from the disaster.
Now that the comet passes through Wusu, the kings of Jishu, Jiaoxi, and Jiangdu were implicated and committed suicide by depriving themselves of the throne, and the kings of Huaiyang and Hengshan were executed for rebellion.
In April of the third year, a comet was seen in Tianji Star and traveled to Vega.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
占曰： 织女有女变，天幻为地震。
至四年十月而地动，其后陈皇后废。
六年，荧惑守舆鬼。
占曰： 为火变，有丧。
是岁高园有火灾，窦太后崩。
元光元年六月，客星见于房。
占曰： 为兵起。
其二年十一月，单于将十万骑入武州，汉遣兵三十余万以待之。
元光中，天星尽摇，上以问候星者。
对曰： 星摇者，民劳也。
后伐四夷，百姓劳于兵革。
元鼎五年，太白入于天苑。
占曰： 将以马起兵也。
一曰： 马将以军而死耗。
其后以天马故诛大宛，马大死于军。
元鼎中，劳惑守南斗。
占曰： 荧惑所守，为乱贼丧兵；守之久，其国绝祀。
南斗，越分也。
其后越相吕嘉杀其王及太后，汉兵诛之，灭其国。
元封中，星孛于河戍，占曰： 南戍为越门，北戍为胡门。
其后汉兵击拔朝鲜，以为乐浪、玄菟郡。
朝鲜在海中，越之象也；居北方，胡之域也。
太初中，星孛于招摇。
《星传》曰： 客星守招摇，蛮夷有乱，民死君。
其后汉兵击大宛，斩其王。
招摇，远夷之分也。
孝昭始元中，汉宦者梁成恢及燕王候星者吴莫如见蓬星出西方天市东门，行过河鼓，入营室中。
恢曰： 蓬星出六十日，不出三年，下有乱臣戮死于市。
后太白出西方，下行一舍，复上行二舍而下去。
太白主兵，上复下，将有戮死者。
后太白出东方，入咸池，东下入东井。
人臣不忠，有谋上者。
后太白入太微西籓第一星，北出东籓第一星，北东下去。
translation: 
The fortune teller said: The Vega star indicates a change in the heroine, and the Celestial Star indicates an earthquake.
An earthquake occurred in October of the fourth year, and Empress Chen was deposed.
For six years, Mars stayed in Yugui Su.
The person who predicts the weather says: It means fire and there will be funeral.
This year, a fire broke out in the cemetery of Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty, and Empress Dowager Bao died.
In June of the first year of Yuanguang, a new star appeared in the house.
Those who predict the situation say: It indicates that there will be a war.
In November of the second year, Shanyu led 100,000 cavalry to invade Wuzhou, and the Han Dynasty sent more than 300,000 troops to meet the enemy.
During the Yuanguang period, all the stars in the sky were flashing, so the emperor asked the horoscope person.
Answered: The twinkling stars indicate the labor of the people.
Later, the barbarians were conquered, and the people worked hard because of the war.
In the fifth year of Yuanding, Venus entered the Tianyuan star.
The person who predicts the situation says: There will be a war caused by horses.
Another saying: Horses will die because of war.
Later, Dawan was killed because of Tianma, and most of the horses died in the war.
During the Yuan Ding period, Mars stayed in Nan Dou Su.
Those who predict the position say: If Mars stays behind, it is a sign that there will be thieves and soldiers; if it stays for a long time, its divided country will stop offering sacrifices.
The country of Yue is the dividing line between Nan Dou Su.
Later, Lu Jia, the prime minister of Yue, killed the king and the queen mother, and the Han army raised troops to kill him and destroy the country of Yue.
During the Yuanfeng period, new stars were seen in the Nanhe and Beihe star areas. The people who occupied the territory said: Nanhe is the gateway to the Yue Kingdom, and Beihe is the gateway to the Hu people.
Later, the Han soldiers defeated North Korea and made the area Lelang and Xuantu counties.
North Korea is in the sea, and the gateway of the Yue Kingdom symbolizes North Korea; staying in the north is the area of ​​the Hu people.
In the early years of Taichu, a new star was seen near the Swaggering Star.
"Star Biography" says: The new star staying behind the Swaggering Star indicates that there will be unrest among the ethnic minorities in the south, and the people will lose their king.
Later, the Han Dynasty sent troops to attack Dayuan and beheaded the King of Dayuan.
The dividing line between Swaggering Stars is the distant ethnic minority areas.
In the first year of Xiaozhao, Liang Chenghui, the eunuch of the Han Dynasty, and Wu Moru, the astrologer used by the King of Yan, saw a comet appearing at the Yuanjian Gate of Tianshi in the west, passing through the Heguxing area, and entering the camp.
Liang Chenghui said: The comet appeared for sixty days, and within three years, in the dividing area below it, the rebellious ministers were killed and displayed to the public.
Later, Venus appeared in the west, moved downward for one house, then moved upward for two houses, and then left downwards.
Venus indicates the army, going up and down, there will be people killed.
Later, Venus appeared in the east, entered the Xianchi star, and moved eastward into the Dongjing star.
It indicates that the minister is disloyal and may be plotting rebellion.
Later, Venus entered the first star area in the west of Taiweiyuan, moved northward out of the position of the first star in the beam, and then left in the north and east direction.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
太微者，天廷也，太白行其中，宫门当闭，大将被甲兵，邪臣伏诛。
荧惑在娄，逆行至奎，法曰 当有兵 。
后太白入昴。
莫如曰： 蓬星出西方，当有大臣戮死者。
太白星入东井。太微廷，出东门，没有死将。
后荧惑出东方，守太白。
兵当起，主人不胜。
后流星下燕万载宫极，东去，法曰 国恐，有诛 。
其后左将宫桀、骠骑将军安与长公主、燕刺王谋作乱，咸伏其肆，兵诛乌桓。
元凤四年九月，客星在紫宫中斗枢极间。
占曰： 为兵。
其五年六月，发三辅郡国少年谐北军。
五年四月，烛星见奎、娄间。
占曰： 有土功，胡人死，边城和 。
其六年正月，筑辽东、玄菟城。
二月，度辽将军范明支击乌桓还。
元平元年正月庚子，日出时有黑云，状如焱风乱鬊，转出西北，东南行，转而西，有顷亡。
占曰： 有云如众风，是谓风师，法有大兵 。
其后兵起乌孙，五将征匈奴。
二月甲申，晨有大星如月，有众星随而西行。
乙酉，牂云如狗，赤色，长尾三枚，夹汉西行。
大星如月，大臣之象，众星随之，众皆随从也。
天文以东行为顺，西行为逆，此大臣欲行权以安社稷。
占曰： 太白散为天狗，为卒起。
卒起见，祸无时，臣运柄。
牂云为乱君。
到其四月，昌邑王贺行淫辟，立二十七日，大将军霍光白皇太后废贺。
三月丙戌，流星出翼、轸东北，干太微，入紫宫。
始出小，且入大，有光。
入有顷，声如雷，三鸣止。
占曰： 流星入紫宫，天下大凶。
translation: 
Taiwei Yuan is a symbol of the Heavenly Court. Venus moves within it, indicating that the palace gates should be closed, generals wearing armor and leading troops, and evil ministers lying in wait.
Mars is in Lousu and retrogrades from Shuerxi to Kuisu. According to fortune telling, there will be a war.
Later Venus entered the Pleiades.
Wu Moru said: When Peng Xing appears in the west, ministers will be killed.
When Venus enters Dongjingsu and Taiweiting and moves out of the east gate, some of the Han generals will die.
Later Mars appeared in the east, accompanying Venus.
At this time, a war should be launched, and the leader of the army will be defeated.
Later, a meteor fell on the roof of Yan State's Wanzai Palace and headed east. According to fortune-telling, the country was in panic and there would be executions.
Later, the left general Shangguan Jie and the hussar general Shangguan An conspired with the eldest princess and the king of Yanla Liu Dan, and they were all killed. There was an army to attack Wuhuan.
In September of the fourth year of Yuanfeng, a new star appeared between the Big Dipper and the North Pole in the Purple Palace.
The person who is waiting said: It is a war.
In June of the fifth year, young men from three auxiliary counties were conscripted into the Northern Army.
In April of the fifth year, the candle star appeared between Kui Su and Lou Su.
People who predict the position say that it indicates the rise of civil engineering projects, the death of barbarians, and peace in border towns.
In the first month of the sixth year, Liaodong and Xuantu cities were built.
In February, Fan Mingyou, the general of Liao Dynasty, defeated Wuhuan and returned the army.
Gengzi said on the first month of the first year of Yuanping that at sunrise there was a black cloud mountain, which looked like a strong wind ruffling hair. It moved out of the northwest, traveled southeast, then turned west again, and disappeared for a while.
The fortune teller said: There are clouds like strong wind, which is called the wind master. The fortune teller records that a big war will be launched.
Later, the war was launched in the Wusun Kingdom, and five generals conquered the Xiongnu.
On Jiashen Day in February, a big star like the moon appeared in the morning, and many stars followed it and moved westward.
Yiyou said that the Yangyun is shaped like a dog, red, with three long tails, running westward along the Milky Way from both sides.
The big star is like the moon, which is a symbol of the ministers. If the stars follow the big star, it means that everyone will follow.
According to the rules of astronomy, moving from west to east is obedient, and moving from beam to west is unfavorable. This is because the ministers want to exercise their power to stabilize the country.
Astrologers say: The dispersion of Venus forms the Dog Star and the Pawn Star.
The pawn star appears, disasters occur all the time, and ministers play with power.
Yangyun is a sign of chaos for the king.
In April, Liu He, the king of Changyi, was in chaos. On the 27th day after taking the throne, the general Huo Guang reported to the empress dowager that Liu He was deposed.
On Bingxu in March, a meteor appeared in the northeast of Yisu and Zhensu, invaded Taiweiyuan, and entered the Zigong star area.
It appears small in shape at first, then becomes larger and brighter.
After a while, there was a sound like thunder, and it stopped three times.
Astrologers say: If a meteor enters the Purple Palace star area, it indicates great misfortune in the world.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
其四月癸未，宫军晏驾。
孝宣本始元年四月壬戌甲夜，辰星与参出西方。
其二年七月辛亥夕，辰星与翼出，皆为蚤。
占曰： 大臣诛。
其后荧惑守房之钅句钤，钅句钤，天子之御也。
占曰： 不太仆，则奉车，不黜即死也。
房、心，天子宫也。
房为将相，心为子属也。
其地宋，今楚彭城也。
四年七月甲辰，辰星在翼，月犯之。
占曰： 兵起，上卿死，将相也。
是日，荧惑入舆鬼天质。
占曰： 大臣有诛者，名曰天贼在大人之侧。
地节元年正月戊午乙夜，月食荧惑，荧惑在角、亢。
占曰： 忧在宫中，非贼而盗也。
有内乱，谗臣在旁。
其辛酉，荧惑入氐中，氐，天子之宫，荧惑入之，有贼臣。
其六月戊戌甲夜，客星又居左右角间，东南指，长可二尺，色白。
占曰： 有奸人在宫廷间。
其丙寅，又有客星见贯索东北，南行，至七月癸酉夜入天市，芒炎东南指，其色白。
占曰： 有戮卿。
一曰： 有戮王。
期皆一年，远二年。
是时，楚王延寿谋逆自杀。
四年，故大将军霍光夫人显、将军霍禹、范明友、奉车霍山及诸昆弟宾婚为侍中、诸曹、九卿、郡守皆谋反，咸伏其辜。
黄龙元年三月，客星居王梁东北可九尺，长丈余，西指，出阁道间，至紫宫。
其十二月，宫车晏驾。
元帝初元元年四月，客星大如瓜，色青白，在南斗第二星东可四尺，占曰： 为水饥。
其五月，勃海水大溢。
六月，关东大饥，民多饿死，琅邪郡人相食。
translation: 
On the last day of April this year, the emperor passed away.
On the first watch night of Renxu day in April of the first year of Emperor Xiaoxuan, Mercury appeared in the west from Rigel.
On the evening of Xinhai day in July of the second year, Mercury appeared in the west from Yisu, earlier than the calendar calculation.
The person who was waiting said: Some of the ministers were killed.
Later, Mars stayed in the Gouchan star area of ​​​​Fangsu. The Gou Ling Star is the chariot of the Emperor of Heaven.
The man who held the waiting position said: Either he is a royal servant or a captain of Fengcha. If he is not dismissed, he will be executed.
Fangsu and Xinsu are the palace of the emperor.
The house of the house belongs to the general and the prime minister, and the heart of the house belongs to the son.
Its dividing line is the Song Dynasty, which is Pengcheng in the current state of Chu.
In the seventh month of the fourth year, Mercury was in the wing constellation, and the moon invaded it.
The person who holds the position said: There is a war started, and a high official died in the position of general.
On that day, Mars entered the Yugui constellation star area.
The person who is waiting for the throne said: If a minister is killed, he is called a thief on the side of the king.
On the night of the second watch of Wuwu in the first month of the first year of the Earth Festival, the moon covered Mars, and Mars was in Spica and Kang.
The person who predicts the future says: It indicates that there will be trouble in the palace, either a robber or a thief.
There is civil strife, and slanderous ministers surround the king.
On Xinyou day, Mars moves into the central part of Disu. Disu is the palace of the Emperor of Heaven. If Mars enters it, it indicates the presence of traitors.
On the night of the first watch of the Wuxu Day in June of this year, there was a comet between the left and right stars. The comet's tail pointed to the southeast, about two feet long, and white in color.
The person who predicts the future says: It indicates that there is a traitor in the palace.
On Bingyin day, another comet appeared in the northeast of Guansuo star and moved southward. On the night of Guiyou in July, it entered Tianshiyuan. The starlight was very bright. The comet's tail pointed to the southeast and its color was white.
The person who occupies the position said: It indicates the killing of ministers.
Another said: There is a foreshadowing of killing the emperor.
The time is always one year, and it may appear in two years.
At that time, King Yanshou of Chu rebelled and committed suicide.
In the fourth year, the late general Huo Guang's wife Xian, generals Huo Yu, Fan Mingyou, Huo Shan, the captain of Fengche, and his wife's brother's in-laws all conspired to rebel, including the ministers, Cao Cao, Jiu Qing, and county guards, and were all sentenced to death.
In March of the first year of Huanglong, the comet resided about nine feet northeast of Wangliang star and was more than one foot long. The comet's tail pointed west and moved to the Gedao star area and the Zigong star area.
In December of that year, the emperor died.
In April of the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, a new star appeared, as big as a melon and blue-white in color, about four feet away from the second star beam in the South Dipper. People who predict the weather say: It indicates that water will cause hungry people.
In May, the Bohai Sea flooded.
In June, there was a great famine in Guandong. Many people starved to death and people in Langye County were cannibals.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
二年五月，客星见昴分，居卷知东可五尺，青白色，炎长三寸。
占曰： 天下有妄言者。
其十二月，巨鹿都尉谢君男诈为神人，论死，父免官。
五年四月，彗星出西北，赤黄色，长八尺所，后数日长丈余，东北指，在参分。
后二岁余，西羌反。
孝成建始元年九月戊子，有流星出文昌，色白，光烛地，长可四丈，大一围，动摇如龙蛇形。
有顷，长可五六丈，大四围所，诎折委曲，贯紫宫西，在斗西北子亥间，后诎如环，北方不合，留一刻所。
占曰： 文昌为上将贵相。
是时，帝舅王凤为大将军，其后宣帝舅子王商为丞相，皆贵重任政。
凤妒商，谮而罢之。
商自杀，亲属皆废黜。
四年七月，荧惑逾岁星，居其东北半寸所如连李。
时岁星在关星西四尺所，萤惑初从毕口大星东东北往，数日至，往疾去迟。
占曰： 荧惑与岁星斗，有病君饥岁。
至河平元年三月，旱，伤麦，民食榆皮。
二年十二月壬申，太皇太后避时昆明东观。
十一月乙卯，月食填星，星不见，时在舆鬼西北八九尺所。
占曰： 月食填星，流民千里。
河平元年三月，流民入函谷关。
河平二年十月下旬，填星在东井轩辕南大星尺余，岁星在其西北尺所，荧惑在其西北二尺所，皆从西方来，填星贯舆鬼，先到岁星次，荧惑亦贯舆鬼。
十一月上旬，岁星、荧惑西去填星，皆西北逆行。
占曰： 三星若合，是谓惊位，是谓绝行，外内有兵与丧，改立王公。
其十一月丁巳，夜郎王歆大逆不道，牂柯太守立捕杀歆。
translation: 
In May of the second year, a comet appeared in the Pleiades and stayed about five feet east of the Tongue Star. It was blue-white in color and its flame was three inches long.
The person who predicts the future says: It indicates that there will be people who tell lies in the world.
In December of that year, the son of Julu Captain Xie Jun lied that he was a god and was sentenced to death. His father was dismissed from office.
In April of the fifth year, the comet appeared in the northwest, red-yellow, about eight feet long, and grew to more than one foot long in the next few days, with its tail pointing northeast, at Betelgeuse.
More than two years later, the Xiqiang rebelled.
On the Wuzi day of the ninth month of the first year of Emperor Xiaocheng's founding, a meteor appeared in the Wenchang star area. It was white in color, shining on the ground, about four feet long, thick and wide, and its trajectory was like a dragon or snake.
For a moment, it is about five or six feet long and about four feet thick. It winds and twists and turns across the west of the Purple Palace star area and at Zihaiwen in the northwest of the Beidou. The back curves like a ring and does not close in the north, leaving about a quarter of an hour.
The fortune teller said: Wenchang star is a general and a noble prime minister.
At that time, the emperor's uncle Wang Feng was a general, and later Emperor Xuan's nephew Wang Shang was the prime minister. They were all nobles in politics.
Wang Feng was jealous of Wang Shang, impeached him and was removed from office.
Wang Shang committed suicide and his relatives were deposed.
July four years. Mars is beyond the year star and resides about half an inch northeast of it.
At that time, the Sui star was about four feet west of the Tianguan star. Mars initially followed the big star east of Bisukou and moved toward the northeast. It arrived in a few days, and it came quickly and went slowly.
Those who predict the horoscope say: If Mars touches the year star, the king will be sick and the year will be famine.
In March of the first year of Heping, there was a drought, which damaged the wheat harvest and the people ate elm bark to satisfy their hunger.
In December of the second year, Renshen said that the Empress Dowager avoided the taboos of the season and went to Kunming to watch.
On November Yimao, the moon obscured Saturn and Saturn disappeared. At that time, Saturn was about eight or nine feet northwest of Yugui constellation.
The fortune teller said: The moon covering Saturn indicates that the people will be displaced thousands of miles away.
In March of the first year of Heping, the exiled people entered Hangu Pass.
In late October of the second year of Heping, Saturn was more than one foot away from the southern end of Xuanyuan star in Cambodia, Jupiter was more than one foot northwest of it, and Mars was more than two feet northwest of it, all moving from the west. Saturn traverses the constellation Yugui, first coming to Jupiter, and Mars also traverses the constellation Yugui.
In early November, Jupiter and Mars move westward away from Saturn, and both go retrograde northwestward.
Those who predict the position say: If the three stars are in the same place, it is called "Jingshi" or "Jue Xing". It indicates that there will be wars and funerals inside and outside and the establishment of princes.
In November of this year, at Dingsi, Wang Xin of Yelang rebelled, and Chen Li, the prefect of Yangke, hunted and killed Xin.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
三年九月甲戌，东郡庄平男子侯母辟兄弟五人群党为盗，攻燔官寺，缚县长吏，盗取印绶，自称将军。
三月辛卯，左将军千秋卒，右将军史丹为左将军。
四年四月戊申，梁王贺薨。
阳朔元年七月壬子，月犯心星。
占曰： 其国有忧，若有大丧。
房、心为宋，今楚地。
十一月辛未，楚王友薨。
四年闰月庚午，飞星大如缶，出西南，入斗下。
占曰： 汉使匈奴。
明年，鸿嘉元年正月，匈奴单于雕陶莫皋死。
五月甲午，遣中郎将杨兴使吊。
永始二年二月癸未夜，东方有赤色，大三四围，长二三丈，索索如树，南方有大四五围，下行十余丈，皆不至地灭。
占曰： 东方客之变气，状如树木，以此知四方欲动者。
明年十二月己卯，尉氏男子樊并等谋反，贼杀陈留太守严普及吏民，出囚徒，取库兵，劫略令丞，自称将军，皆诛死。
庚子，出阳铁官亡徒苏令等杀伤吏民，篡出囚徒，取库兵，聚党数百人为大贼，逾年经历郡国四十余。
一日有两气同时起，并见，而并、令等同月俱发也。
元延元年四月丁酉日餔时，天暒晏，殷殷如雷声，有流星头大如缶，长十余丈，皎然赤白色，从日下东南去。
四面或大如盂，或如鸡子，耀耀如雨下，至昏止。
郡国皆言星陨。
《春秋》星陨如雨为王者失势诸侯起伯之异也。
其后王莽遂颛国柄。
王氏之兴萌于成帝时，是以有星陨之变，后莽遂篡国。
绥和元年正月辛未，有流星从东南入北斗，长数十丈，二刻所息。占曰： 大臣有系者。
其年十一月庚子，定陵侯淳于长坐执左道下狱死。
二年春，荧惑守心。
二月乙丑，丞相翟方进欲塞灾异，自杀。
三月丙戌，宫车晏驾。
哀帝建平元年正月丁未日出时，有著天白气，广如一匹布，长十余丈，西南行，讠雚如雷，西南行一刻而止，名曰天狗。
translation: 
In September of the third year of Jiaxu, five brothers, Hou Mupi, a man from Zhuangping in Shujun, formed a gang and became bandits. They attacked and burned official temples, tied up county magistrates, snatched seals and ribbons, and called themselves generals.
On the day of Xinmao in March, General Gong Ta from the left passed away, and General Shi Qie from the right became General from the left.
In April of the fourth year, Wushen said, Pan Wang Xinghe passed away.
On the day of Renzi in the seventh month of the first year of Qushuo, the moon invaded the heart.
Those who predict the future say: There will be sorrow or great mourning in the country that divides it.
The land where Fangsu and Su were separated was the Song Kingdom, which is now the Chu Kingdom.
On the eleventh day of the twelfth lunar month, King Liu You of Chu passed away.
On Gengwu, the leap month of the fourth year, a meteor as big as a fou appears in the southwest and enters the Beidou star region.
The person who was waiting said: The Han Dynasty sent an envoy to the Xiongnu.
In the second year, in the first month of the first year of the Frontier, Emperor Niuni Shanyu died in the tomb of Di.
In May, during the Sino-Japanese War, General Yang Xing was sent to express his condolences.
On the night of the last day of the second month of the second year of Yongshi, a red light appeared in the east, three or four meters thick and two or three feet long. There was a rustling sound like the shaking of leaves.
The fortune teller said: Color-changing clouds drifting from the east, shaped like trees, indicate that there will be turmoil in all directions.
On the day of Ji Mao in the twelfth month of the following year, Fan Bing, a man of the Wei family, conspired to rebel. He killed Yan Pu, the prefect of Chenliu, as well as officials and people, released prisoners, robbed the weapons in the storehouse, robbed the prime minister, and claimed to be a general. They were all executed.
On the Gengzi day, Su Ling, a fugitive from Shanyang Tieguan, and others killed and wounded officials and people, robbed and released prisoners, robbed weapons from the storehouse, and gathered hundreds of party members to become big robbers. In the second year, he passed through more than 40 counties.
Two kinds of clouds rise at the same time and appear together in one day, and Fan Bing and Su Ling rise at the same time in the same month.
At the time of Dingyoushen in April of the first year of Yuanyan, the sky was clear and cloudless, and the vibrations were like thunder. There was a meteor head as big as a fou, more than ten feet long, bright red and white, streaking southeast from the sun.
Small meteors scattered in all directions, some as big as a basin or as small as an egg, flicker like rain, and stop at dusk.
The people in the county all said it was a starfall.
"Spring and Autumn" records that stars falling like rain are a sign of mutation when the king loses power and the princes rise to dominate.
Later, Wang Mang took full power over the country.
The rise of Wang Mang originated during the Shengcha period, so there was a sudden change. Later Wang Mang usurped the country.
At the end of the first lunar month of the first year of Suihe, a meteor streaked into the Beidou star area from the southeast. It was dozens of feet long and subsided in about half an hour. The fortune teller said: It indicates that the minister will be imprisoned.
On Gengzi Day in November of this year, King Zun of Xuanyi Fort was implicated by a cult and was imprisoned and executed.
In the spring of the second year, Mars stayed in the heart.
In February, Yichou said that Prime Minister Zhai Fangjin committed suicide in order to prevent the disaster.
On Bingxu in March, the emperor passed away.
When the sun rose on the first day of the first month of the first year of Emperor Ai's reign, the sky was shrouded in white clouds, as wide as a piece of cloth, more than ten feet long, moving southwest, making a noise like thunder, running southwest for a quarter of an hour and then stopping, which was called the Tengu.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
传曰： 言之不从，则有犬祸诗妖。
到其四年正月、二月、三月，民相惊动，讠雚晔奔走，传行诏筹祠西王母，又曰 从目人当来。
十二月，白气出西南，从地上至天，出参下，贯天厕，广如一匹布，长十余丈，十余日去。
占曰： 天子有阴病。
其三年十一月壬子，太皇太后诏曰： 皇帝宽仁孝顺，奉承圣绪，靡有解怠，而久病未廖。夙夜惟思，殆继体之君不宜改作。
《春秋》大复古，其复甘泉泰畤、汾阴后土如故。
二年二月，彗星出牵牛七十余日。
传曰： 彗所以除旧布新也。
牵牛，日、月、五星所从起，历数之元，三正之始。
彗而出之，改更之象也。
其出久者，为其事大也。
其六月甲子，夏贺良等建言当改元易号，增漏刻。
诏书改建平二年为太初元年，号曰 陈圣刘太平皇帝，刻漏以百二十为度。
八月丁巳，悉复蠲除之，贺良及党与皆伏诛流放。
其后卒有王莽篡国之祸。
元寿元年十一月，岁星入太微，逆行干右执法。
占曰： 大臣有忧，执法者诛，若有罪。
二年十月戊寅，高安侯董贤免大司马位，归第自杀。
translation: 
"The Biography" says: If the loyal advice is not adopted, the heavenly dog ​​will appear and make evil words to confuse the people.
In the first, second, and third lunar months of the fourth year, the people were all alarmed and running around noisily. According to legend, Shao Shu came from heaven to plan a sacrifice to the Queen Mother of the West, and also said that someone with erect eyes was coming.
In December, the white air appeared in the southwest, rising from the earth to the sky, appearing under Rigel, crossing the Tianwu star area, as wide as a piece of cloth, more than ten feet long, and took more than ten days to leave.
The person who predicts the future says: The emperor has a sinister disease.
In the eleventh month of the third year of Renzi's reign, the Empress Dowager Shao told the emperor: The emperor is kind and filial, and he rarely slacks off in serving the emperor's temple. However, he has not recovered from his long illness. He thinks about it day and night. It is probably not easy for a king who inherits a great power to change the system.
"Spring and Autumn" pays attention to the restoration of ancient times, and sacrifices are held at the Taishi Temple in Ganquan Palace and the Houtu Temple in Fenyin as before.
In February of the second year, a comet appeared in Altair for more than seventy days.
"The Legend" says: The appearance of a comet heralds the removal of the old and the establishment of the new.
Altair, the starting point of the movement of the sun, moon, and five stars, the starting point of the epoch in calculating the calendar, and the beginning of the three positive years of Tianzheng, Dizheng, and Renzheng?
The appearance of comets in Altair is a sign of change.
The long time it takes to appear indicates that something big will happen.
On Jiazi Day in June of this year, Xia Heliang and others advocated changing the name of Yuan Yi and adding missing engravings.
The emperor issued an edict to change the second year of Jianping to the first year of Taichu, known as Emperor Chen Sheng and Liu Taiping, and divided one day into one hundred and twenty.
On Dingsi day in August, they were all dismissed again, and Xia Heliang and his followers were executed and exiled.
After that, Wang Mang usurped the country.
In November of the first year of Yuanshou, Jupiter entered Taiweiyuan and retrograded to invade the right law enforcement star.
Those who predict the position say: It indicates that ministers will be in trouble, and those who serve as law enforcement officials will be killed or punished.
On Wuyin day in October of the second year, Dong Xian, the Marquis of Gao'an, was dismissed from the post of Grand Sima and committed suicide after returning home.


