Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝明皇帝九子：贾贵人生章帝；阴贵人生梁节王暢；余七王本书不载母氏。
千乘哀王建，永平三年封。
明年薨。
年少无子，国除。
陈敬王羡，永平三年封广平王。
建初三年，有司奏遣羡与巨鹿王恭、乐成王党俱就国。
肃宗性笃爱，不忍与诸王乖离，遂皆留京师。
明年，案舆地图，令诸国户口皆等，租入岁各八千万。
羡博涉经书，有威严，与诸儒讲论于白虎殿。
是时，诸国无复租禄，而数见虏夺，并日而食，转死沟壑者甚众，夫人姬妾多为丹陵兵乌桓所略云。
彭城靖王恭，永平九年赐号灵寿王。
十五年，封为臣鹿王。
建初三年，徙封江陵王，改南郡为国。
元和二年，三公上言江陵在京师正南，不可以封，乃徙为六安王，以庐江郡为国。
肃宗崩，遗诏徙封彭城王，食楚郡，其年就国。
translation: 
◆In the Biography of the Eight Kings of Xiaoming, Emperor Xiaoming had nine sons: Jia Gui was born as Emperor Zhang; Yin Gui was born as Emperor Liu Chang of Liangjie; the other seven kings did not record their mothers’ surnames in this book.
Liu Jian, the Qiancheng Ai King, was granted the title in the third year of Yongping.
He died the next year.
When he was young and had no sons, his country was destroyed.
Chen Jing Wang Liu Xian was granted the title of Guangping King in the third year of Yongping.
In the third year of Jianchu's reign, a minister sent Liu Xian, King Liu Gong of Julu, and King Liu Dang of Lecheng to the fiefdom.
Suzong had a loving nature and could not bear to be separated from the other kings, so they all stayed in the capital.
In the second year, according to the map, the household registrations in all countries were equalized, and the annual rent was 80 million.
Liu Xianbo was a dignified scholar who dabbled in scriptures and held discussions with other Confucian scholars at White Tiger Temple.
In the seventh year, the emperor thought that Guangping was in the north and had more border fees, so he changed the name to King Xiping and divided the eight counties of Runan into fiefs. After the emperor's death, the posthumous edict was changed to the title of King Chen, and he lived in Huaiyang County. That year he went to the fiefdom. He died in the thirty-seventh year of his life.
His son Liu Jun, King Si, was his heir. Liu Gong, King Jing of Pengcheng, was given the title of King Lingshou in the ninth year of Yongping.
In the fifteenth year, he was named the Julu King.
In the third year of Jianchu's reign, the title was changed to King Jiangling, and Nanjun was changed to a fiefdom.
In the second year of Yuanhe, the Third Duke said that Jiangling was located directly south of the capital and could not be enfeoffed, so he changed the title to the King of Liu'an and used Lujiang County as the fiefdom.
After Suzong's death, the posthumous edict changed the title to King Pengcheng and granted him the title of King of Chu County. In the same year, he was transferred to the fiefdom.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
恭敦厚威重，举动有节度，吏人敬爱之。
永初六年，封恭子阿奴为竹邑侯。
元初三年，恭以事怒子酺，酺自杀。
国相赵牧以状上，因诬奏恭祠祀恶言，大逆不道。
立七年，魏受禅，以为崇德侯。
乐成靖王党，永平九年赐号重熹王，十五年封乐成王。
党聪惠，善《史书》，喜正文字。
与肃宗同年，尤相亲爱。
建初四年，以清河之游、观津，勃海之东光、成平，涿郡之中水、饶阳、安平、南深泽八县益乐成国。
及帝崩，其年就国。
党急刻不遵法度。
旧禁宫人出嫁，不得适诸国。
有故掖庭技人哀置，嫁为男子章初妻，党召哀置入宫与通，初欲上书告之，党恐惧，乃密赂哀置姊焦使杀初。事发觉，党乃缢杀内侍三人，以绝口语。
立三十四年，国除。
translation: 
Liu Gongdun was dignified and dignified, and his actions were measured and respected by the officials and the people.
In the sixth year of Yongchu's reign, Liu Gong's son Anu was granted the title of Marquis of Zhuyi.
In the third year of the Yuan Dynasty, Liu Gong was angry with his son Liu Youfu, and Liu Youfu committed suicide.
Zhao Mu, the Prime Minister of the State, reported the situation to the police because he falsely accused Liu Gong of making evil remarks during the sacrifice at the temple, which was treason.
Someone asked me to kill him. Liu Gong wrote a letter to defend himself.
The imperial court believed that he had always acted righteously and ordered a verification test. There was no evidence, so Zhao Mu was imprisoned and was exempted from the death penalty in the event of a general amnesty. Liu Gongli died in the forty-sixth year of his reign, and his son Liu Daosi became the king of Kao. Liu Dang, the successful king of Jing, was granted the title of King Chongxi in the ninth year of Yongping, and the title of successful king in the fifteenth year of Yongping.
Liu Dang is very smart, knows "Historical Records", and likes to correct writing.
I am the same year as Suzong, so I am particularly dear to him.
In the fourth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, eight counties including You and Guanjin in Qinghe, Dongguang and Chengping in Bohai, Zhongshui, Raoyang, Anping and Nanshenze in Zhuojun were added to the Lecheng Kingdom.
When the emperor died, he went to the fief in the same year.
Liu Dang immediately disobeyed the law.
According to the old rules, palace people were prohibited from getting married and were not allowed to go to the fiefdom.
Ai Zhi, a skilled man from the old Yeting, married a man named Zhang Chu. Liu Dang summoned Ai Zhi to the palace and committed adultery with him. Zhang Chu wanted to write a letter to accuse him, but Liu Dang was afraid, so he secretly bribed Ai Zhi's sister Jiao to kill Zhang Chu. When the matter was discovered, Liu Dang hanged three eunuchs to silence him.
Liu Dangli died in the twenty-fifth year of his reign, and his son Liu Chongsi, the king of mourning, died.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
下邳惠王衍，永平十五年封。
衍有容貌，肃宗即位，常在左右。
建初初冠，诏赐衍师傅已下官属金、帛各有差。
四年，以临淮郡及九江之钟离、当涂、东城、历阳、全椒合十七县益下邳国。
帝崩，其年就国。
贼平复国，数月薨。立五十七年，年九十。
子哀王宜嗣，数月薨，无子，建安十一年国除。
梁节王暢，永平十五年封为汝南王。
母阴贵人有宠，暢尤被爱幸，国土租入倍于诸国。
肃宗立，缘先帝之意，赏赐恩宠甚笃。
建初二年，封暢舅阴棠为西陵侯。
四年，徙为梁王，以陈留之郾、宁陵、济阴之薄、单父、己氏、成武，凡六县，益梁国。
帝崩，其年就国。
暢性聪惠，然少贵骄，颇不遵法度。
translation: 
Liu Yan, King of Xia Pi Hui, was granted the title in the 15th year of Yongping.
Liu Yan had good looks, and Suzong was always at his side when he came to the throne.
In the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Liu Yanggang held a crown ceremony and issued an imperial edict to Master Liu Yan with the following official items: gold, silk and other items, each with its own distinction.
In the third year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, a total of 17 counties including Linhuai County and Jiujiang's Zhongli, Dangtu, Dongcheng, Liyin and Quanjiao counties were added to the Xiapi Kingdom.
After the emperor died, he went to the fiefdom that year.
Later, Liu Yan had a heart problem, and Prince Liu was convicted and deposed. The concubines vied with each other to establish a son as their heir, and even wrote letters to tell each other.
Emperor He took pity on them and sent Liu Gong, King Jing of Pengcheng, to Xiapi to rectify his concubines and make his son Liu the crown prince. Liu Yanli died in the fifty-fourth year of his reign, and his son Liu Chengsi, King Zhen.
Liu Chang, the king of Liangjie, was named the king of Runan in the 15th year of Yongping.
The nobles in the maternal yin favored the emperor, and Liu Chang was especially favored. The rent of the land was double that of other countries.
When Suzong came to the throne, he followed the wishes of the late emperor and rewarded him with generous favors.
In the second year of Jianchu's reign, Liu Chang's uncle Yin Tang was granted the title of Marquis of Xiling.
In the fourth year, he moved to the throne of Liang and added six counties including Chenliu, Ningling, Jiyinzhibo, Shanfu, Jishi and Chengwu to the Liang fiefdom.
After the emperor died, he went to the fiefdom that year.
Liu Chang is intelligent and kind, but he is a arrogant young man and does not follow the rules very well.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
归国后，数有恶梦，从官卞忌自言能使六丁，善占梦，暢数使卜筮。
又暢乳母王礼等，因此自言能见鬼神事，遂共占气，祠祭求福。
忌等谄媚，云神言王当为天子。
暢心喜，与相应答。
永元五年，豫州刺史、梁相举奏暢不道，考讯，辞不服。
有司请征暢诣廷尉诏狱，和帝不许。
有司重奏除暢国，徙九真，帝不忍，但削成武、单父二县。
暢惭惧，上疏辞谢曰：臣天性狂愚，生在深宫，长养傅母之手，信惑左右之言。
及至归国，不知防禁。
从官侍史利臣财物，荧惑臣暢。
臣暢无所昭见，与相然诺，不自知陷死罪，以至考案。
肌栗心悸，自悔无所复及。
自谓当即时伏显就，魂魄去身，分归黄泉。
不意陛下圣德，枉法曲平，不听有司，横贷赦臣。
战栗连月，未敢自安。
上念以负先帝而令陛下为臣收污天下，诚无气以息，筋骨不相连。
臣暢知大贷不可再得，自誓束身约妻子，不敢复出入失绳墨，不敢复有所横费。
租入有余，乞裁食睢阳、穀孰、虞、蒙、宁陵五县，还余所食四县。
translation: 
After arriving in the fiefdom, he had nightmares many times. Bian Ji, an official, said that he could use Liu Ding to divine dreams, so Liu Chang asked him to use divination tools several times.
Liu Chang's wet nurse Wang Li and others also used this to say that they could see ghosts and gods, so they worked together to fortune-telling and offered sacrifices in the temple to pray for blessings.
Bian Ji and others flattered Liu Chang and said that King Shenyan should be the emperor.
Liu Chang was delighted and answered with them.
In the ninth year of Yongyuan, Liang Xiangju, the governor of Yuzhou, reported Liu Chang's rebellion and rebellion. He refused to accept his resignation when questioned.
Some officials requested that Liu Chang be summoned to be imprisoned by Tingwei, but He Di disagreed.
Yousi also reported that Liu Chang was exempted from the fiefdom and moved to Jiuzhen. The emperor couldn't bear it and only cut off Chengwu and Shanfu counties.
Liu Chang was ashamed and frightened, so he thanked me and said: "I am crazy and stupid by nature. I was born in a deep palace and grew up in the hands of my mother. I believe what I say."
When I returned home, I didn’t know how to prevent myself from being banned.
Serving as an official and serving as a servant in order to obtain wealth has fascinated my heart.
Chen Chang didn't realize it and made promises to them. Unknowingly, he was setting himself up for death and even committed a crime.
I was scared inside, and it was too late to regret.
He thought he should be killed, his soul would leave his body and return to hell.
Unexpectedly, His Majesty, because of his holy virtue, violated the law and refused to listen to the words of the Secretary, he pardoned me.
I have been trembling with fear for months, not daring to feel at ease.
Shang thought that he had failed the late emperor and caused his majesty to suppress the evil in the world for his ministers. It was true that the ministers were breathless and their muscles and bones were not connected.
Chen Chang knew that leniency could never be obtained again, so he vowed to keep his wife in check and not dare to go out unruly or waste any more.
There was a surplus from the rent, so we requested that the five counties of Suiyang, Gushu, Yu, Meng, and Ningling be eliminated, leaving four counties.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
臣暢小妻三十七人，其无子者愿还本家。
自选择谨敕奴婢二百人，其余所受虎贲、官骑及诸工技、鼓吹、仓头、奴婢、兵弩、厩马皆上还本署。
臣暢以骨肉近亲，乱圣化，污清流，既得生活，诚无心面目以凶恶复居大宫，食大国，张官属，藏什物。
愿陛下加大恩，开臣自悔之门，假臣小善之路，令天下知臣蒙恩，得去死就生，颇能自悔。
臣以公卿所奏臣罪恶诏书常置于前，昼夜诵读。
臣小人，贪见明时，不能即时自引，惟陛下哀臣，令得喘息漏刻。
若不听许，臣实无颜以久生，下入黄泉，无以见先帝，此诚臣至心。
臣欲多还所受，恐天恩不听许，节量所留，于臣暢饶足。
诏报曰： 朕惟王至亲之属，淳淑之美，傅相不良，不能防邪，至令有司纷纷有言。
今王深思悔过，端自克责，朕恻然伤之。志匪由王，咎在彼小子。
一日克己复礼，天下归仁。
王其安心静意。茂率休德。
《易》不云乎： 一谦而四益。
小有言，终吉。
强食自爱。
translation: 
I have thirty-seven young wives, and those who have no children are willing to return to their families.
I have chosen to count 200 slaves and maids in Shuli. The rest of the tigers, officers and cavalry, craftsmen, drummers, warehouses, slaves, crossbows, and stables and horses have all been returned to this office.
I, the minister Chang, used my flesh and blood as my closest relatives, chaotically sanctified them, wandered into the clear stream, and now that I have found a living, I am indeed shameless, living in a big palace with evil, eating a big country, holding officials and subordinates, and hiding all kinds of things.
May your Majesty be more gracious and open the door to self-repentance for ministers, and let false ministers take the path of small kindness, so that ministers who know the world will be favored, can live and die, and be able to regret themselves.
I always put the criminal edict written by the minister in front of me and read it day and night.
I am a villain, and when I am greedy for seeing the light, I cannot lead myself away. I hope that your majesty will mourn for you and make you lose your breath for a moment.
If you don't listen to the promise, I will have no face to live for a long time. I will fall into the underworld and never be able to see the late emperor. This is indeed my sincerity.
I want to repay more for what I have received, but I am afraid that God's grace will not obey the promise. I will keep what I can, but it is enough for me.
The emperor's edict reported back: I am only a close relative of the king. I am pure and beautiful, but my minister is bad and cannot prevent evil, so that officials have to say something.
Now that the king has thought deeply about his regrets and taken responsibility for himself, I am very sad. The ambition is not due to the king, but to those boys.
For one day of self-denial and return to propriety, the world will return to benevolence.
Wang Qi is at peace and quiet, and has great leadership and virtue.
Didn't the "Book of Changes" say: One modesty brings four benefits.
Small words are extremely auspicious.
Self-love through force.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
豹立八年薨，子暠嗣。
三十二年，遭黄巾贼，弃国走。建安十一年国除。
济阴悼王长，永平十五年封。
建初四年，以东郡之离狐、陈留之长垣益济阴国。
立十三年，薨于京师，无子，国除。
translation: 
Liu Chang resolutely gave in. After several memorials, he finally disagreed. Liu Changli died in the 27th year of his reign, and was succeeded by his son Gong Wang Liu Jian.
Liu Ribing, the king of Qing in Huaiyang, was granted the title of King of Changshan in the 15th year of Yongping. In the fourth year of Jianchu's reign, he moved to the throne of Huaiyang and added Xin'an and Xihua in Runan to the Huaiyin Kingdom. He died sixteen years after he was established, before he could have an heir.
Liu Chang, the mourning king of Jiyin, was granted the title in the fifteenth year of Yongping.
In the fourth year of Jianchu, Lihu of Dongjun and Changyuan of Chenliu were added to Jiyin Kingdom.
Thirteen years after he was established, he died in the capital, childless, and his fiefdom was abolished.


