Chunk 0: 
original: 
《洪范》八政，一曰食，二曰货。
食谓农殖嘉谷可食之物，货谓布帛可衣，及金、刀、鱼、贝，所以分财布利通有无者也。
二者，生民之本，兴自神农之世。 斫木为耜煣木为耒，耒耨之利以教天下 ，而食足； 日中为市，致天下之民，聚天下之货，交易而退，各得其所 ，而货通。
食足货通，然后国实民富，而教化成。
黄帝以下 通其变，使民不倦 。
尧命四子以 敬授民时 ，舜命后稷以 黎民祖饥 ，是为政首。
禹平洪水，定九州，制土田，各因所生远近，赋入贡棐，茂迁有无，万国作乂。
殷周之盛，《诗》、《书》所述，要在安民，富而教之。
translation: 
Among the eight types of government officials in "Hong Fan", one is the official in charge of people's food, and the second is the official in charge of property.
Food refers to the good grain produced by farmers that can be eaten, and goods refers to cloth and silk that can be worn, as well as golden knives and turtle shells, which are used to distribute property and spread benefits so as to distribute the haves and have-nots.
Combining the two is the foundation of people's life, and it has begun to rise since the era of Shennong. Cut wood to make grass, bend wood to make grass, and spread the benefits of grass to the world, so that there will be enough food; at noon, a market will be formed to attract people from all over the world, gather all the goods from the world, and then go away after exchange, so that everyone can get what they want, so that the wealth will circulate.
Food is sufficient, goods are circulated, and then the country enriches and enriches the people. In this way, political and religious culture is formed.
Huang Di and his subordinates made adjustments for the people so that they would not feel tired.
Emperor Yao ordered Xizhong, Xishu, Hezhong, and Heshu to inform the people of the weather and seasons. When the people began to starve, Emperor Shun appointed Houji and made Zao the first place in politics.
Dayu quelled the floods, stabilized the nine provinces, regulated the fields, and handed over the land tax to the oval bamboo vessels that held tribute according to the distance where they were born. He encouraged the world to exchange what they had and what they had, and all the nations were governed.
The prosperity of the Shang and Zhou Dynasties was recorded in the "Poems" and "Books", which mainly depended on stabilizing the people, making them rich and then educating them.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
故《易》称： 天地之大德曰生，圣人之大宝曰位；何以守位曰仁，何以聚人曰财。
财者，帝王所以聚人守位，养成群生，奉顺天德，治国安民之本也。
故曰： 不患寡而患不均，不患贫而患不安；盖均亡贫，和亡寡，安亡倾。
是以圣王域民，筑城郭以居之；制庐井以均之；开市肆以通之；设庠序以教之；士、农、工、商，四人有业。
学以居位曰士，辟土殖谷曰农，作巧成器曰工，通财鬻货曰商。
圣王量能授事，四民陈力受职，故朝亡废官，邑亡敖民，地亡旷土。
理民之道，地著为本。
故必建步立亩，正其经界。
translation: 
Therefore, the Book of Changes states that the great virtue of heaven and earth is life, and the most precious thing for a saint is the throne; how to hold the throne is called benevolence, and how to accumulate people is called wealth.
Property is the basis for emperors to gather people to protect their throne, support the masses, obey God's kindness, and govern the country and stabilize the people.
Therefore, it is said: Don’t worry about lack but worry about inequality; don’t worry about poverty but worry about instability; because when there is balance, there will be no poverty; when there is harmony, there will be no abundance; when there is stability, there will be no overthrow.
Therefore, the wise king defined the people and built cities for them to live in, built houses in the wells and fields to make them equal, opened markets for them to circulate goods, and set up schools to educate them; the four kinds of people, scholars, farmers, workers, and merchants, had their own businesses.
After learning, becoming an official is called a scholar, opening up land to produce grain is called a farmer, using technology to make utensils is called a worker, and circulating property and buying and selling goods is called a merchant.
A wise king bestows official positions according to his talents, and the four kinds of people bear responsibility according to their own strength. Therefore, there are no idle officials in the court, no idlers in the city, and no desolate fields on the ground.
The method of governing people is to make them settle in one place.
Therefore, steps must be established to set the acres and correct the boundaries of the land.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
六尺为步，步百为亩，亩百为夫，夫三为屋，屋三为井，井方一里，是为九夫。
八家共之，各受私田百亩，公田十亩，是为八百八十亩，余二十亩以为庐舍。
出入相友，守望相助，疾病相救，民是以和睦，而教化齐同，力役生产可得而平也。
民受田：上田夫百亩，中田夫二百亩，下田夫三百亩。
岁耕种者为不易上田；休一岁者为一易中田；休二岁者为再易下田，三岁更耕之，自爰其处。
农民户人己受田，其家众男为余夫，亦以口受田如比。
士、工、商家受田，五口乃当农夫一人。
此谓平土可以为法者也。
若山林、薮泽、原陵、淳卤之地，各以肥硗多少为差。
有赋有税。
税谓公田什一及工、商、衡虞之人也。
赋共车马、兵甲、士徒之役，充实府库、赐予之用。
税给郊、社、宗庙、百神之祀，天子奉养、百官禄食庶事之费。
民年二十受田，六十归田。
七十以上，上所养也；十岁以下，上所长也；十一以上，上所强也。
translation: 
Six feet is one step, one hundred steps is one acre, one hundred acres is one man, three houses is one house, three houses is one well, and the radius of the well is one mile, which is nine men.
Eight families owned it jointly, each receiving a hundred acres of private land and ten acres of public land, which was eight hundred and eighty acres, leaving twenty acres for houses.
We are friends with each other when we come in and out, we help each other as guards and lookouts, and we help each other when we are sick. Therefore, the people are harmonious, and the political and religious customs are unified, and labor production can be obtained and evenly distributed.
The people accepted the land, good land was 100 acres, medium land was 200 acres, and poor land was 300 acres.
Those who farm every year do not exchange good fields; those who fallow one year exchange medium fields once; those who fallow two years exchange bad fields twice, and those who cultivate three years exchange the fields and change their positions.
The head of a peasant household receives the land for himself, and the other men in his family are the remaining husbands, and the land is divided among them in proportion.
Scholars, workers, and merchants divided the fields, and five talents were equivalent to one farmer.
This means that it can be used as a law on the plains.
If it is a mountainous area, a woodland, a large lake, a hilly land, or a land immersed in salt-alkali soil, it will be graded according to the degree of fertility and barrenness.
There are taxes and gifts.
The tax is one-tenth of the public land and the income of industry, commerce, scale, and Yu.
Fu is the labor that provides soldiers with chariots, horses, armor, and weapons, and is used to enrich the government's warehouses for storing property, armor, and rewards.
The tax was used to support the sacrifices to the ancestral gods in the suburbs, the emperor to support the officials, salaries, food, and other expenses.
When the people reach the age of twenty, their fields will be divided, and when they reach sixty, the acres will be returned.
Those over seventy years old are those whom the emperor has come to support; those under ten years old are those whom the emperor wants to raise; those over eleven years old are those whom the emperor wants to make strong.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
种谷必杂五种，以备灾害。
田中不得有树，用妨五谷。
力耕数耘，收获如寇盗之至。
还庐树桑，菜茹有畦，瓜瓠、果蓏殖于疆易。鸡、豚、狗、彘毋失其时，女修蚕织，则五十可以衣帛，七十可以食肉。
在野曰庐，在邑曰里。
五家为邻，五邻为里，四里为族，五族为常，五常为州，五州为乡。
乡，万二千五百户也。
邻长位下士，自此以上，稍登一级，至乡而为卿也。
于是里有序而乡有庠。
序以明教，庠则行礼而视化焉。
春令民毕出在野，冬则毕入于邑。
其《诗》曰： 四之日举止，同我妇子，馌彼南亩。
又曰： 十月蟋蟀，入我床下 ， 嗟我妇子，聿为改岁，入此室处。
所以顺阴阳，备寇贼，习礼文也。
春将出民，里胥平旦坐于右塾，邻长坐于左塾，毕出然后归，夕亦如之。
入者必持薪樵，轻重相分，班白不提挈。
冬，民既入，妇人同巷，相从夜绩，女工一月得四十五日。
必相从者，所以省费燎火，同巧拙而合习俗也。
translation: 
Grains must be mixed with other grains to prevent disasters.
There should be no trees in the fields so as not to hinder the grain.
If you work hard, you will reap the harvest as if thieves are coming.
If mulberry trees are planted around the cottage, there are ridges in the vegetable field, melons and fruits are planted on the edges of the fields, chickens, pigs, dogs, and pigs are raised without delay, and women weave silkworms, then they can wear silk cloth at the age of fifty and eat meat at the age of seventy.
A house in a field is called a hut, and a house in a place where people live together is called a li.
Five families form one neighbour, five neighbors form one li, four li form one clan, five clans form one party, five parties form one state, and five states form one township.
There are 12,500 households in one township.
The official rank of the chief of a neighborhood is corporal. From there, the official rank is one level higher, and the official rank at the township level is Qing.
In this way, there is order in the house and there is harmony in the countryside.
The preface is used to clarify the teachings, and the xiang is used to practice etiquette to demonstrate the teachings.
In the spring, the people were ordered to go to the fields, and in the winter to the towns.
"Poetry" says this: In April, he moved his legs, took the women and children with him, and gave food to the people in the fields to the south.
He also said: In October, Cricket hid under my bed, called the women and children, and told them that the year was almost over and they could go into the house.
This is used to comply with yin and yang, guard against thieves and bandits, and learn etiquette and rituals.
In the spring, when people would go out, Lixu would sit in the house on the right in the morning, and the neighbor would sit in the house on the left, waiting for everyone to leave before returning. The same was true at night.
Those who come back must carry firewood and separate them according to importance. People with gray hair do not carry firewood.
In winter, people have come back, and the women are in the same house, weaving together at night. Female workers have a total of forty-five working days in the morning and evening in a month.
It must be together to save the cost of the torch, to make the skillful and clumsy the same, and to make the custom consistent.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
男女有不得其所者，因相与歌咏，各言其伤。
是月，余子亦在于序室。
八岁入小学，学六甲、五方、书计之事，始知室家长幼之节。
十五入大学，学先圣礼乐，而知朝廷君臣之礼。
其有秀异者，移乡学于庠序。庠序之异者，移国学于少学。
诸侯岁贡小学之异者于天子，学于大学，命曰造士。
行同能偶，则别之以射，然后爵命焉。
孟春之月，群居者将散，行人振木鐸徇于路以采诗，献之大师，比其音律，以闻于天子。
故曰王者不窥牖户而知天下。
此先王制土处民，富而教之之大略也。
故孔子曰： 道千乘之国，敬事而信，节用而爱人，使民以时。
故民皆劝功乐业，先公而后私。
其《诗》曰： 有渰凄凄，兴云祁祁，雨我公田，遂及我私。
translation: 
If a man or a woman has not accomplished what he is supposed to accomplish, they will sing to each other and make fun of each other.
This month, men who are not going to work are also attending school.
Entering primary school at the age of eight, he learned how to calculate time by using the heavenly stems and earthly branches, as well as the writing and planning of various parties, and began to understand the etiquette of the elders and younger children in the family.
At the age of fifteen, he entered university and studied the rituals and music of the sages of the previous generation. He then understood the etiquette of the emperor and his ministers in the court.
Among them, outstanding students were transferred from Xiangxue to Xiangxu; outstanding students were transferred from Guoxue to Shaoxu.
Every year, the princes recommend outstanding students from their junior high schools to the emperor to study in universities, and are called scholars.
Those who are talented among their peers will be tested by shooting separately, and then they will be appointed to the title of nobility.
During the Meng Chun period, people who lived together were about to disperse. Some people walked along the road ringing big bells to collect folk songs and presented them to the master in charge of music. They arranged the music together and told the emperor.
Therefore, a king can know the affairs of the world without looking at every household.
This is the general policy of the previous emperors to arrange the people according to the quality of the land and make them rich before educating them.
Therefore Confucius said: To govern a country with a thousand chariots, be cautious, trustworthy, economize on expenses, care for the people, and serve the people at the right time.
Therefore, the people work hard to make meritorious deeds, enjoy their own profession, and put public affairs first before private affairs.
"Poetry" says this: The clouds slowly rise, the rain slowly falls, first falling on the public fields, and then on my private fields.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
民三年耕，则余一年之畜。
衣食足而知荣辱，廉让生而争讼息，故三载考绩。
孔子曰： 苟有用我者，期月而已可也，三年有成 ，成此功也。
三考黜陟，馀三年食，进业曰登；再登曰平，馀六年食；三登曰泰平，二十七岁，遗九年食。
然后王德流洽，礼乐成焉。
故曰 如有王者，必世而后仁 ，繇此道也。
周室既衰，暴君污吏慢其经界，徭役横作，政令不信，上下相诈，公田不治。
故鲁宣公 初税亩 ，《春秋》讥焉。
于是上贪民怨，灾害生而祸乱作。
陵夷至于战国，贵诈力而贱仁谊，先富有而后礼让。
translation: 
The people farmed for three years and left one year for stocking.
Only when you have enough food and clothing can you know the glory and shame. Integrity and humility will arise, and fights and lawsuits will stop. Therefore, merit is reviewed every three years.
Confucius said: If my people are useful, it will be enough in one year, and success will be achieved in three years. This is the achievement.
After three years of assessment, it is decided to demote or promote, and the food for three years is sent away, and the production is handed over to Deng; after two times, it is called Ping, and six years of food is left; after three times, it is called Taiping, and after twenty-seven years, nine years of food are left.
Then the supreme morality prevails and etiquette and music are fulfilled.
Therefore, it is based on this principle that if someone becomes king, it must take thirty years before benevolent government is formed.
After the decline of the Zhou Dynasty, the tyrants and corrupt officials ignored their national boundaries, corvee labor was rampant, government orders were not trustworthy, people above and below deceived each other, and no one cultivated the public fields.
Therefore, Lu Xuangong's "first tax mu" was ridiculed by "Spring and Autumn".
As a result, those in power are greedy, and the people are resentful. When disaster occurs, chaos will arise.
The Zhou Dynasty declined into the Warring States Period, where they respected hypocrisy and violence but despised benevolence and righteousness. They put material sufficiency first and politeness and humility second.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
是时，李悝为魏文侯作尽地力之教，以为地方百里，提封九百顷，除山泽、邑居参分去一，为田六百万亩，治田勤谨则亩益三升，不勤则损亦如之。
地方百里之增减，辄为粟百八十万石矣。
又曰：籴甚贵伤民，甚贱伤农。民伤则离散，农伤则国贫，故甚贵与甚贱，其伤一也。
善为国者，使民毋伤而农益劝。
今一夫挟五口，治田百亩，岁收亩一石半，为粟百五十石，除十一之税十五石，余百三十五石。
食，人月一石半，五人终岁为粟九十石，余有四十五石。
石三十，为钱千三百五十，除社闾尝新、春秋之祠，用钱三百，余千五十。
衣，人率用钱三百，五人终岁用千五百，不足四百五十。
translation: 
At this time, Li Kui formulated an edict for Wei Wenhou to fully utilize the land's productive capacity. He believed that the land was a hundred miles in circumference, with a total of 90,000 hectares. Excluding one-third of the mountainous Dahu villages, there were still 6 million acres of fields. If you cultivate the fields carefully, you will receive an additional three dou per acre. If you are not diligent, you will also be deducted three dou.
If the amount of grain in a land with a radius of a hundred miles increases or decreases, it will amount to 1.8 million stones of millet.
Moreover, if the grain purchased is too expensive, it will hurt the scholars, workers, and merchants, and if it is too cheap, it will hurt the peasants. If the peasants, workers, and merchants are hurt, there will be dispersion, and if the peasants are hurt, there will be national poverty. Therefore, if it is too expensive or too cheap, one party will definitely be harmed.
Those who are good at governing the country will protect the soldiers, workers, and merchants from harm and make the farmers more diligent.
Now a householder with five people cultivates 100 acres of land. The annual harvest is one and a half dan per acre, and the millet cost is 150 dan. After deducting the one-tenth tax of 15 dan, there is still 135 dan left.
For food, one person needs one and a half dan per month, and five people need 90 shi per year, leaving 45 shi left.
After selling thirty stones, we got one thousand three hundred and fifty coins. After excluding the new harvest grains in the community and the spring and autumn sacrifices, which cost three hundred coins, we still had one thousand and fifty coins left.
Clothes cost roughly 300 yuan per person, and 1,500 yuan for five people for the whole year, a difference of 450 yuan.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
不幸疾病死丧之费，及上赋敛，又未与此。
此农夫所以常困，有不劝耕之心，而令籴至于甚贵者也。
是故善平籴者，必谨观岁有上、中、下孰。上孰其收自四，余四百石；中孰自三，余三百石；下孰自倍，余百石。
小饥则收百石，中饥七十石，大饥三十石，故大孰则上籴三而舍一，中孰则籴二，下孰则籴一，使民适足，贾平则止。
小饥则发小孰之所敛、中饥则发中孰之所敛、大饥则发大孰之所敛而粜之。
故虽遇饥馑、水旱，籴不贵而民不散，取有余以补不足也。
行之魏国，国以富强。
translation: 
Unfortunately, the expenses for illness, death, funeral, and taxes are not included in this package.
This is the reason why farmers are often poor and have no intention of farming diligently, which makes the purchase of grain too expensive.
Therefore, those who are good at buying and storing grain at a reasonable price must carefully observe that there are three levels of maturity each year: upper, middle and lower. The upper ripe harvest can be four times the original amount, and there are still 400 stone left at the end; the medium ripe harvest is three times the original amount, and there are still 300 stone left at the end; the low maturity harvest is double the original amount, and there are still one hundred stone left at the end.
A small famine can collect one hundred stones, a medium famine can collect seventy stones, and a large famine can collect twenty stones. Therefore, in good harvest years, we use the policy of high-ripe years to buy three times the amount of grain in normal years and leave a portion for the people; in mid-ripe years, we buy twice as much grain; in low-ripe years, we buy twice as much grain, so that the people can be satisfied, and the phenomenon of food price average and famine is stopped.
During a minor famine, the taxes collected during the minor harvest period will be distributed. During a moderate famine, the taxes collected during the middle harvest season will be distributed. During a major famine, the taxes collected during the major harvest period will be distributed to sell them.
Therefore, even if there are famines, floods and droughts, the inexpensive purchases will not cause the scholars, workers, and merchants to be separated, and the surplus will be used to make up for the shortage.
Implement it in Wei State, and the country will become rich and strong.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
及秦孝公用商君，坏井田，开阡陌，急耕战之赏，虽非古道，犹以务本之故，倾邻国而雄诸侯。
然王制遂灭，僭差亡度。
庶人之富者累巨万，而贫者食糟糠；有国强者兼州域，而弱者丧社稷。
至于始皇，遂并天下，内兴功作，外攘夷狄，收泰半之赋，发闾左之戍。
男子力耕不足粮饷，女子纺绩不足衣服。
竭天下之资财以奉其政，犹未足以澹其欲也。
海内愁怨，遂用溃畔。
汉兴，接秦之敝，诸侯并起，民失作业而大饥馑。
凡米石五千，人相食，死者过半。
高祖乃令民得卖子，就食蜀、汉。
天下既定，民亡盖臧，自天子不能具醇驷，而将相或乘牛车。
上于是约法省禁，轻田租，十五而税一，量吏禄，度官用，以赋于民。
而山川、园池、市肆租税之人，自天子以至封君汤沐邑，皆各为私奉养，不领于天子之经费。
漕转关东粟以给中都官，岁不过数十万石。
孝惠、高后之间，衣食滋殖。
文帝即位，躬修俭节，思安百姓。
时民近战国，皆背本趋末，贾谊说上曰：
translation: 
When Qin Xiaogong appointed Shang Yang, he destroyed the well fields, opened up the roads to the fields, and used the rewards of farming and fighting as urgent matters. Even if it was not the ancient method, it was still because of the dedication to the fundamentals, so as to overwhelm the neighboring countries and dominate the princes.
But the dynastic system ceased to exist, and there was no restraint beyond hierarchy.
The rich among the people accumulated a lot of wealth, while the poor lived on the chaff; the powerful country swallowed up prefectures and counties, and the weak lost the country.
When Qin Shihuang arrived, he annexed the world, built a lot of construction projects internally, excluded the barbarians externally, collected more than half of the taxes, and levied civilians on the left side of the Juli Gate to defend the border.
Men's hard work in farming is not enough to support themselves, and women's spinning is not enough to provide clothing.
Exhausting all the money and property in the world to pursue his policies is not enough to satisfy his desires.
People in the country were filled with grief and anger, so they began to flee the rebellion.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, it inherited the shortcomings of the Qin Dynasty. The princes revolted together, the people lost their jobs, and there was a period of great famine.
A stone of ordinary rice costs 5,000 yuan. If people eat people, more than half of them will die.
Emperor Gaozu ordered the people to sell their children and live in Shu and Han.
After the world was settled, the people had nothing to store. From the emperor who could not own four horses of pure color, to the generals who could only ride bullock carts.
The emperor then issued decrees to restrict frugality, reduce land rents, collect one-fifteenth of the tax, and collect taxes from the people based on official salaries and government expenditures.
However, the income from taxes on the mountains, rivers and gardens, from the emperor to the private fiefs of the recipients of the fiefdoms, was provided by each of them, and no ordinary fees were paid to the emperor.
The cost of transporting millet from Guandong via waterways to the capital and delivering it to various government offices does not exceed hundreds of thousands of dan per year.
In the era of Emperor Xiaohui and Queen Gao, clothing and food gradually increased.
After Emperor Wen ascended the throne, he personally practiced frugality and worked hard for the stability of the people.
At that time, the people were not far from the Warring States period. They had abandoned their roots and were moving towards the end. Jia Yi advised the emperor:


Chunk 9: 
original: 
管子曰： 仓廪实而知礼节。
民不足而可治者，自古及今，未之尝闻。
古之人曰： 一夫不耕，或受之饥；一女不织，或受之寒。
生之有时，而用之亡度，则物力必屈。
古之治天下，至孅至悉也，故其畜积足恃。
今背本而趋末，食者甚众，是天下之大残也；淫侈之俗，日日以长，是天下之大贼也。
残贼公行，莫之或止；大命将泛，莫之振救。
生之者甚少而靡之者甚多，天下财产何得不蹶！
汉之为汉几四十年矣，公私之积犹可哀痛。
失时不雨，民且狼顾；岁恶不入，请卖爵、子。
既闻耳矣，安有为天下阽危者若是而上不惊者！
世之有饥穰，天之行也，禹、汤被之矣。
即不幸有方二三千里之旱，国胡以相恤？
translation: 
Guan Zhong said: Only when the warehouse is sufficient can you know the etiquette.
From ancient times to the present, it has never been heard of that the people could manage without adequate supplies.
Ancient people said: If a man does not cultivate, some will suffer from hunger; if a woman does not weave, some will suffer from cold.
If there are seasons for producing materials, but there is no restraint in using them, then the materials will definitely be exhausted.
In ancient times, the world was governed in a very detailed and comprehensive manner, so their savings were enough to rest assured.
Nowadays, we are abandoning the roots and tending to the ends. There are many people who live on leisure, which is the greatest harm in the world. Excessive and extravagant customs are increasing day by day. This is the greatest harm in the world.
Cruel and violent acts are carried out openly, and no one comes to stop them; the fate of the country is about to be overturned, and no one comes to save it.
With fewer people producing and more people squandering, how can the world's wealth not be exhausted?
The Han Dynasty has been established for nearly forty years, and the public and private accumulations are particularly worth mourning.
If it doesn't rain when it's supposed to rain, the people will be afraid; if the age is bad and there is no income, then the official position and children will be sold.
After hearing this, how can the emperor not be shocked when he faces such dangers in governing the world?
There are years of famine in the world. This is God's arrangement. Dayu and Shang Tang have already suffered it.
If unfortunately there is a drought in a radius of two or three thousand miles, how will the country provide relief?


Chunk 10: 
original: 
卒然边境有急，数十百万之众，国胡以馈之？
兵旱相乘，天下大屈，有勇力者聚徒而衡击，罢夫赢老易子而咬其骨。
政治未毕通也，远方之能疑者并举而争起矣，乃骇而图之，岂将有及乎？
夫积贮者，天下之大命也。
苟粟多而财有余，何为而不成？
以攻则取，以守则固，以战则胜。
怀敌附远，何招而不至？
今殴民而归之农，皆著于本，使天下各食基力，末技游食之民转而缘南亩，则畜积足而人乐其所矣。
可以为富安天下，而直为此廪廪也，窃为陛下惜之！
于是上感谊言，始开籍田，躬耕以劝百姓。
晁错复说上曰：
圣王在上而民不冻饥者，非能耕而食之，织而衣之也，为开其资财之道也。
translation: 
Suddenly there is an emergency on the border. There are hundreds of thousands or millions of troops. What will the country use as food and salary?
If wars and droughts happen at the same time, the world will be very poor. The brave people will gather together to make trouble, and the tired men and the weak old people will exchange children and bite their bones.
Politics may not always work. People from far away who are comparable to the monarch are vying for trouble, so they are horrified to plan this matter. Is it still too late?
Accumulation and hoarding are the destiny of the world.
If there is plenty of grain and plenty of property, why can't you succeed?
If you attack, you will capture it, if you defend it, you will be strong, and if you wage war, you will win.
To bring the enemy to his side, and to bring those from afar to his side, what can he gather but not come?
Now the people are driven back to agriculture, which is all attached to the root, so that everyone in the world can obtain food by their own strength. Those who do not work in agriculture but eat in industry and commerce turn to agriculture, then there will be sufficient savings and everyone will be happy with what they are doing.
It can make the world prosperous and stable, but it has created such a dangerous situation. I privately feel sorry for Your Majesty!
So the emperor was moved by Mai Yi's words and began to set up land and cultivate it himself to encourage the people.
Chao Cuo persuaded the emperor again:
When a wise king is in power, the people do not feel cold or hungry. He does not cultivate so that they have food and weave so that they have clothes, but opens the way for them to accumulate wealth.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
故尧、禹有九年之水，汤有七年之旱，而国亡捐瘠者，以畜积多而备先具也。
今海内为一，土地人民之众不避汤、禹，加以亡天灾数年之水旱，而畜积未及者，何也？
地有遗利，民有余力，生谷之土未尽垦，山泽之利未尽出也，游食之民未尽归农也。
民贫，则奸邪生。
贫生于不足，不足生于不农，不农则不地著，不地著则离乡轻家，民如鸟兽，虽有高城深池，严法重刑，犹不能禁也。
夫寒之于衣，不待轻暖；饥之于食，不待甘旨；饥寒至身，不顾廉耻。
人情，一日不再食则饥，终岁不制衣则寒。
夫腹饥不得食，肤寒不得衣，虽慈父不能保其子，君安能以有其民哉！
明主知其然也，故务民于农桑，薄赋敛，广畜积，以实仓廪，备水旱，故民可得而有也。
民者，在上所以牧之，趋利如水走下，四方忘择也。
translation: 
Therefore, Emperors Yao and Yu had nine years of floods, and Shangtang had seven years of drought, but no one died of hunger in the country. This is because the savings are large and the precautions are already there.
Now that the country is unified, the number of land and people is no less than that of Shang Tang and Dayu. In addition, there are no natural disasters and several years of floods and droughts, but the savings are not sufficient. What is the reason?
There is surplus profit on the land, and the people have surplus strength. The land that produces grains has not been fully cultivated, the resources of the mountains and lakes have not been fully developed, and the people who do not farm but eat have not fully returned to agriculture.
When people are poor, evil will appear.
Poverty is caused by insufficiency, and insufficiency is caused by not farming. If you don't farm, you are not attached to the land. If you are not attached to the land, you will leave your hometown and despise your family. People are like birds and beasts. Even if there are high walls, deep ponds, and severe punishments and laws, they cannot be stopped.
When it's cold, don't ask for gorgeous clothes; when you're hungry, don't ask for sweet food; when hunger and cold come, you don't care about shame.
Human nature is to make you hungry if you don't eat two meals a day, and to be cold if you don't make clothes for a whole year.
There is no food for hunger in the belly, no clothes for cold skin, and even a loving mother cannot protect her children. How can a monarch own his people!
The wise monarch knows this, so he asks the people to devote themselves to agriculture and mulberry industry, reduce taxes, increase savings, fill warehouses, and prevent floods and droughts, so that they can gain and possess the people.
The people, the reason why those in power want to control them is because they pursue interests like water flowing downwards, and there is no choice in the four directions.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
夫珠玉金银，饥不可食，寒不可衣，然而众贵之者，以上用之故也。
其为物轻微易臧，在于把握，可以周海内而亡饥寒之患。
此令臣轻背其主，而民易去其乡，盗贼有所劝，亡逃者得轻资也。
粟米布帛生于地，长于时，聚于力，非可一日成也；数石之重，中人弗胜，不为奸邪所利，一日弗得而饥寒至。
是故明君贵五谷而贱金玉。
今农夫五口之家，其服役者不下二人，其能耕者不过百亩，百亩之收不过百石。
春耕、夏耘，秋获、冬藏，伐薪樵，治官府，给徭役；春不得避风尘，夏不得避暑热，秋不得避阴雨，冬不得避寒冻，四时之间亡日休息；又私自送往迎来，吊死问疾，养孤长幼在其中。
勤苦如此，尚复被水旱之灾，急政暴赋，赋敛不时，朝令而暮当具。
有者半贾而卖，亡者取倍称之息，于是有卖田宅、鬻子孙以偿责者矣。
而商贾大者积贮倍息，小者坐列贩卖，操其奇赢，日游都市，乘上之急，所卖必倍。
translation: 
Pearls, jade, gold and silver cannot be eaten when hungry and cannot be worn when cold, but everyone regards them as precious because those in higher positions use them.
As currency, they are light and small, easy to collect, and can be carried in the hand and traveled around the sea without the worry of hunger and cold.
This makes it easy for ministers to desert their lords, for people to leave their hometowns, for thieves to be encouraged, and for fugitives to have easy-to-carry property.
Corn, cloth, and silk grow on the land, grow according to the seasons, and are gathered in the market. They cannot be made in one day. The weight of several stones cannot be afforded by ordinary people. Unless they are used by evil people, if they cannot be obtained in one day, hunger and cold will come.
Therefore, wise monarchs value grain and despise gold and jade.
Nowadays, a peasant family of five members has no less than two people serving in the mountains. They can cultivate no more than a hundred acres, and the harvest from a hundred acres of land cannot exceed a hundred stones.
Farming in the spring, weeding in the summer, harvesting in the autumn, storage in the winter, cutting firewood, repairing the government, and performing corvee services; there is no escape from the wind and dust in the spring, the heat in the summer, the rain in the autumn, the cold in the winter, and no time to rest between the four seasons.
After such hard work, if there are floods and droughts, severe politics and cruel taxes, and taxes are not collected according to time, the orders in the morning will be changed at night.
When collecting rent taxes, they had to sell them at half price, and if they didn't have them, they would be charged twice the interest, so they sold their land, houses, children and grandchildren to pay off their debts.
But the big merchants accumulated and hoarded to get double interest, while the small ones sat in the market and hawked, wandering around the city every day with their accumulated property and hoarded goods, taking advantage of the emperor's urgency, and sold their things at double the price.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
故其男不耕耘，女不蚕织，衣必文采，食必梁肉；亡农夫之苦，有仟佰之得。
因其富厚，交通王侯，为过吏势，以利相倾；千里游遨，冠盖相望，乘坚策肥，履丝曳缟。
此商人所以兼并农人，农人所以流亡者也。今法律贱商人，商人已富贵矣；尊农夫，农夫已贫贱矣。
故俗之所贵，主之所贱也；吏之所卑，法之所尊也。
上下相反，好恶乖迕，而欲国富法立，不可得也。
方今之务，莫若使民务农而已矣。
欲民务农，在于贵粟；贵粟之道，在于使民以粟为赏罚。
今募天下入粟县官，得以拜爵，得以除罪。
如此，富人有爵，农民有钱，粟有所渫。
夫能入粟以受爵，皆有余者也；取于有余，以供上用，则贫民之赋可损，所谓损有余补不足，令出而民利者也。
顺于民心，所补者三：一曰主用足，二曰民赋少，三曰劝农功。
translation: 
Therefore, their men do not work hard, and their women do not raise silkworms and weave cloth. The clothes they wear must be gorgeous, and the food they eat must be delicacies. They do not have to work hard as farmers, but they have an income of hundreds of dollars.
Relying on their wealth, they colluded with princes and became more powerful than officials. They competed with each other because of their interests. They traveled thousands of miles without stopping, riding in good cars and horses, wearing silk and pulling white silk strings.
This is why merchants merged with farmers and farmers fled into exile. The current law despises merchants, but merchants have become rich; they respect farmers, but farmers have become poor and humble.
Therefore, what is respected by the world is despised by the monarch; what is despised by officials is respected by the law.
People at higher and lower levels have opposite ideas and different likes and dislikes, but if they want to make the country prosperous and strong and establish a legal system, it is impossible.
The current thing is to make people devote themselves to agriculture.
If you want people to devote themselves to agriculture, you need to value millet; the way to value millet is to make people use millet as rewards and punishments.
Ask the world to hand over millet to the government, and you can be awarded a title to avoid sin.
In this case, the rich will have titles, the farmers will have money, and the millet will be dispersed.
Those who can pay millet and are awarded titles are those who have a surplus; if they take it from those who have a surplus and supply it to the emperor, then the taxes on the poor people can be reduced, which means that there is a reduction in the surplus to make up for the shortfall, and the people will benefit as soon as the order is issued.
There are three ways to make up for the shortcomings in compliance with the people's wishes: first, the monarch's expenditures are sufficient, second, the people's taxes are reduced, and third, farming is encouraged.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
今令民有车骑马一匹者，复卒三人。
车骑者，天下武备也，故为复卒。
神农之教曰： 有石城十仞，汤池百步，带甲百万，而亡粟，弗能守也。
以是观之，粟者，王者大用，政之本务。
令民入粟受爵至五大夫以上，乃复一人耳，此其与骑马之功相去远矣。
爵者，上之所擅，出于口而亡穷；粟者，民之所种，生于地而不乏。
夫得高爵与免罪，人之所甚欲也。
使天下人入粟于边，以受爵免罪，不过三岁，塞下之粟必多矣。
于是文帝从错之言，令民入粟边，六百石爵上造，稍增至四千石为五大夫，万二千石为大庶长，各以多少级数为差。
错复奏言： 陛下幸使天下入粟塞下以拜爵，甚大惠也。
窃恐塞卒之食不足用大渫天下粟。
边食足以支五岁，可令入粟郡、县矣；足支一岁以上，可时赦，勿收农民租。
如此，德泽加于万民，民俞勤农。
时有军役，若遭水旱，民不困乏，天下安宁 岁孰且美，则民大富乐矣。
translation: 
Now the law stipulates that if a commoner has a war horse, he can be exempted from military service or exempted from paying three people's taxes.
War horses are the armed equipment of the world, so they are exempted from military service or taxes.
Shennong's teachings said: There is a city wall made of stone ten feet wide, a city a hundred paces wide, and millions of soldiers wearing pedal armor, but without millet, the city cannot be defended.
From a manufacturing point of view, millet is the greatest need of a king and the foundation of politics.
It is very different from the merits of soldiers and horses to allow the common people to pay grain and get a title of nobility to five officials or above, so that one person can be exempted from corvee service.
Titles are exclusive to the emperor, and there is no end to them from his mouth; millet is cultivated by the common people, and there is no end to its growth from the ground.
Receiving a high title and being exempted from punishment are very desirable.
Let the people of the world give millet to the border army, and use it to obtain titles and avoid punishment. In no more than three years, there will be a lot of millet in the border areas.
So Emperor Wen listened to Chao Cuo's words and asked the people to send grain to the border. Six hundred shi was the second-class title, slightly increased to 4,000 shi, which was the ninth grade, and twelve thousand shi was the eighth grade. The difference was based on the amount of millet received and the rank of the title.
Chao Cuo went to the memorial again and said: Your Majesty is fortunate to have people from all over the world bring millet to the border for conferring titles, which is a great favor.
I was secretly afraid that the food for the border guards would not be enough to fully disperse the grain.
If the grain on the border is sufficient for five years, we can order millet to be paid to the counties; if it is enough for more than one year, we can be pardoned at that time and no farmers' land rent will be collected.
In this way, grace is extended to all people, and the people work more diligently in farming.
If there happens to be military service, or there are floods and droughts, the people will not be poor, and the world will be peaceful; if the grains are ripe every year and of good quality, then the people will be rich and happy.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
上复从其言，乃下诏赐民十二年租税之半。
明年，遂除民田之租税。
后十三岁，孝景二年，令民半出田租，三十而税一也。
其后，上郡以西旱，复修卖爵令，而裁其贾以招民，及徒复作，得输粟于县官以除罪。
始造苑马以广用，宫室、列馆、车马益增修矣。
然娄敕有司以农为务，民遂乐业。
至武帝之初七十年间，国家亡事，非遇水旱，则民人给家足，都鄙廪庾尽满，而府库余财。
京师之钱累百巨万，贯朽而不可校。
太仓之粟陈陈相因，充溢露积于外，腐败不可食。
众庶街巷有马，阡陌之间成群，乘牸牝者摈而不得会聚。
守闾阎者食粱肉；为吏者长子孙；居官者以为姓号。
translation: 
The emperor listened to him again and sent a reward to the people for twelve years and half of the tax.
The next year, the people's land tax was exempted.
Thirteen years later, in the second year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, the people were asked to pay half of the land rent and one-thirtieth of the tax was collected.
After that, there was a drought in the area to the west of Shangjun, and the law on selling nobles was reorganized, and the price was reduced to attract people; as for women who were serving labor according to the criminal law, they could pay millet to the county magistrate to avoid punishment.
Gardens and horses were built to expand the reserves, and carriages and horses in palaces and pavilions were added and repaired.
However, after repeated orders to relevant officials to take agriculture as their main occupation, the people gradually became content with their main occupation.
In the seventy years until the early years of Emperor Wu, there were no incidents in the country. If there were no floods or droughts, the people could provide for themselves and their families. The granaries in Kyoto and the feudal towns were all full, and there was surplus property in the government warehouses.
The money wrapped in the capital accumulated into the millions, and after the rope through which the money was threaded rotted, the money could no longer be counted.
The grain wrapped in the warehouses in the capital increased year by year. When the warehouses were full, they piled up outside the warehouses and became rotten and inedible.
There are horses in the streets and alleys of the people, and there are herds of horses on the field paths. Those who ride cows are excluded and cannot be with the others.
Those who guard the inner gate eat fine food; those who serve as officials have descendants; those who hold official positions use them as official titles.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
人人自爱而重犯法，先行谊而黜愧辱焉。
于是罔疏而民富，役财骄溢，或至并兼；豪党之徒以武断于乡曲。
宗室有土，公卿大夫以下争于奢侈，室庐车服僭上亡限。
物盛而衰，固其变也。
是后，外事四夷，内兴功利，役费并兴，而民去本。
董仲舒说上曰： 《春秋》它谷不书，至于麦禾不成则书之，以此见圣人于五谷最重麦与禾也。
今关中俗不好种麦，是岁失《春秋》之所重，而损生民之具也。
愿陛下幸诏大司农，使关中民益种宿麦，令毋后时。
又言： 古者税民不过什一，其求易共；使民不过三日，其力易足。
民财内足以养老尽孝，外足以事上共税，下足以蓄妻子极爱，故民说从上。
translation: 
Everyone loves himself and finds it difficult to break the law, respects morality and abandons ugly behavior.
As a result, the legal net was wide and the people were wealthy. They relied on their wealth to become proud and complacent, and some went to the extent of annexing land. The wealthy family relied on their power to make arbitrary judgments in the countryside.
The clan has a fiefdom, and everyone from the ministers to the officials strives for luxury, and there is no limit to the number of houses, cars, horses, and clothing.
Things turn from prosperity to decline, which is the law of change.
After that, in order to deal with the barbarians externally and pursue fame and gain internally, labor and expenses rose together, and the people gave up their own business.
Dong Zhongshu persuaded the emperor: "Spring and Autumn" does not record other grains, but wheat and rice are recorded before they are mature. This shows that the sage paid most attention to wheat and rice.
Nowadays, the folk custom in Guanzhong does not like to grow wheat. This year loses the importance of the "Spring and Autumn" and damages the materials that the people need for life.
May your Majesty Shao command the Chief Minister of Agriculture to enable the people in Guanzhong to plant more wheat that will ripen every other year, so that they will not miss the season.
He also said: In ancient times, the tax collected by the government from the people was only one-tenth of the people's taxes, so their demands could be easily supplied; and the people's labor needs were easily met by serving them for only three days.
The people's financial resources are sufficient to support the elderly and fulfill their filial piety, to serve the emperor and provide taxes, and to love their wives and children with all their heart, so people happily obey the emperor.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
至秦则不然，用商鞅之法，改帝王之制，除井田，民得卖买，富者田连阡陌，贫者无立锥之地。
又颛川泽之利，管山林之饶，荒淫越制，逾侈以相高；邑有人君之尊，里有公侯之富，小民安得不困？
又加月为更卒，已，复为正，一岁屯戍，一岁力役，三十倍于古；田租口赋，盐铁之利，二十倍于古。
或耕豪民之田，见税什五。
故贫民常衣牛马之衣，而食犬彘之食。
重以贪暴之吏，刑戮妄加，民愁亡聊，亡逃山林，转为盗贼，赭衣半道，断狱岁以千万数。
汉兴，循而未改。
古井田法虽难卒行，宜少近古，限民名田，以澹不足，塞并兼之路。
盐铁皆归于民。
去奴婢，除专杀之威。
薄赋敛，省徭役，以宽民力。
然后可善治也。
仲舒死后，功费愈甚，天下虚耗，人复相食。
武帝末年，悔征伐之事，乃封丞相为富民侯。
translation: 
This was not the case in the Qin Dynasty. Shang Yang's legal system was implemented, the imperial system was changed, and the well fields were abolished. The people were able to trade. The rich had fields criss-crossing the country, and the poor had no place to put down their awls.
He also monopolizes the benefits of rivers and lakes, possesses the richness of mountains and forests, indulges in excess of restraint, and treats others with luxury. There are noble kings in the city, and the wealth of princes in the city. How can the weak people not be poor?
He continued to serve in the army for several months, and after that, he served for another year as a Zhongdu official and was stationed at the border for another year. The labor service he performed was thirty times that of ancient times. The land rent and the profit from salt and iron were twenty times that of ancient times.
Some people cultivate the fields of wealthy people and pay five-tenths of the tax.
Therefore, poor people often wear the clothes of cows and horses and eat the food of pigs and dogs.
Coupled with the greedy and tyrannical officials who arbitrarily increased the punishment, the people were worried that they had no sustenance, so they fled to the mountains and forests and turned into thieves. Prisoners filled half of the roads, and the number of trial cases counted in the tens of millions a year.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, the rules were not changed.
Although the ancient well-field system is difficult to implement suddenly, it should be as close as possible to the ancient system, restricting people from owning land in private names, using it to supplement deficiencies and block the road to annexation.
Let the profits from salt and iron return to the hands of the people.
Free the slaves and abolish the authority to kill without permission.
Reduce taxes and reduce corvee labor to ease the burden on the people.
It can then be governed well.
After Dong Zhongshu's death, things became more expensive, the world was depleted and empty, and people began to eat each other again.
In the last years of Emperor Wu's reign, he felt regretful about his conquests, so he made Cheng Fu the Marquis of the Rich People.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
下诏曰： 方今之务，在于力农。
以赵过为搜粟都尉。
过能为代田，一亩三甽。
岁代处，故曰代田，古法也。
后稷始甽田，以二耜为耦，广尺、深尺曰甽，长终亩。
一亩三甽，一夫三百甽，而播种于甽中。
苗生叶以上，稍耨陇草，因贵阝其土以附苗根。
故其《诗》曰： 或芸或芓，黍稷儗儗。
芸，除草也。
芓，附根也。
言苗稍壮，每耨辄附根。比盛暑，陇尽而根深，能风与旱，故儗儗而盛也。
其耕耘下种田器，皆有便巧。
率十二夫为田一井一屋，故亩五顷，用耦犁，二牛三人，一岁之收常过缦田亩一斛以上，善者倍之。
过使教田太常、三辅，大农置工巧奴与从事，为作田器。
二千石遣令长、三老、力田及里父老善田者受田器，学耕种养苗状。
translation: 
The order states: The most important thing now is to devote ourselves to agriculture.
Ren Tangguo was appointed Captain of Sosu.
Zhao Guo knew how to cultivate the fields, and he had three furrows per acre of land.
Changing the position of the furrow every year, so it is called Daitian, is an ancient method.
During the Hou Ji period, furrows were dug in the fields, and two people plowed them side by side, one foot wide and one foot deep, called a ridge, extending to the end of the acre.
There are three furrows per acre and three hundred furrows per laborer. Sow the seeds in the furrows.
After the seedlings grow leaves, remove a little grass from the ridges and attach the grass to the roots of the weeds.
Therefore, the "Poetry" says: Some pull weeds, some cultivate soil, millet and millet are already very lush.
Yun is weeding.
Taro is soil.
It means that when the seedlings get a little stronger, they often weed and cultivate the soil. In the hot summer, the ridges are gone and the roots are deep. They can withstand wind and drought, so they are very lush.
The instruments used for cultivating and sowing on behalf of the field are all convenient and flexible.
About twelve laborers had a field, a well and a house, so there were five hectares per acre. Two people worked together, two oxen and three people, and the harvest in a year was often more than one hu per acre of fields without furrow cultivation, and even twice as much for those who knew how to cultivate it.
Zhao Guo sent people to teach Taichang and Sanfu, and Da Si Nong appointed slaves who were good at making field tools to work and make farming tools.
Erqianshi sent the commander, Sanlao, Litian and Lifu Lao who were good at farming to receive farming equipment and learn the methods of farming and cultivating seedlings.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
民或苦少牛，亡以趋泽，故平都令光教过以人挽犁。
过奏光以为丞，教民相与庸挽犁。
率多人者田日三十亩，少者十三亩，以故田多垦辟。
过试以离宫卒田其宫壖地，课得谷皆多旁田，亩一斛以上。
令命家田三辅公田，又教边郡及居延城。
是后边城、河东、弘农、三辅、太常民皆便代田，用力少而得谷多。
至昭帝时，流民稍还，田野益辟，颇有蓄积。
宣帝即位，用吏多选贤良，百姓安土，岁数丰穰，谷至石五钱，农人少利。
时大司农中丞耿寿昌以善为算能商功利，得幸于上，五凤中奏言： 故事，岁漕关东谷四百万斛以给京师，用卒六万人。
宜籴三辅、弘农、河东、上党、太原郡谷，足供京师，可以省关东漕卒过半。
又白增海租三倍，天子皆从其计。
translation: 
Some people suffered from the lack of cattle and the loss of the farming season when the soil was moist and timely for farming after the rain, so Guang Guang was ordered to teach Zhao Guo how to use people to pull the plow.
Zhao Yuzhuo asked Ren Guang to be the prime minister and teach the people to hire each other to pull plows.
Those with many people can plow about thirty acres a day, while those with few can plow thirteen acres, so most of the fields are cultivated.
Zhao Guo used the soldiers from the palace to cultivate the land between the inside and outside of the palace as an experiment, and the threshing of grain was more than one bush of dendrobium per mu than other fields.
He taught the family fields and the three auxiliary public fields, and also taught the border counties and Juyan City.
After that, the people in the border cities, Hedong, Hongnong, Sanfu, and Taichang all thought that Daitian was convenient and they could get more grain with less effort.
By the time of Emperor Zhao, the exiled people gradually returned to their hometowns. The opening of fields has increased, and there is a lot of savings.
After Emperor Xuan came to the throne, most of the officials appointed were virtuous people. The people were content with their own country, and their annual income was abundant. The price of grain reached five yuan per stone, and farmers had little benefit.
At that time, Geng Shouchang, the great minister of agriculture, was good at calculation and measurement, and could calculate the labor required for the project. He was favored by the emperor. During the Five Feng period, he reported: According to the old practice, four million dendrobium grains from Guandong were transported by water every year to supply the capital, and 60,000 soldiers were employed.
The grains in Sanfu, Hongnong, Hedong, Shangdang and Taiyuan counties should be purchased to be enough to supply the capital, which can save more than half of the soldiers needed for water transportation in Guandong.
He also asked for instructions to increase the sea rent three times, and the emperor followed his advice.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
御史大夫萧望之奏言： 故御史属徐宫家在东莱，言往年加海租，鱼不出。
长老皆言武帝时县官尝自渔，海鱼不出，后复予民，鱼乃出。
夫阴阳之感，物类相应，万事尽然。
今寿昌欲近籴漕关内之谷，筑仓治船，费值二万万余，有动众之功，恐生旱气，民被其灾。
寿昌习于商功分铢之事，其深计远虑，诚未足任，宜且如故。
上不听。
漕事果便，寿昌遂白令边郡皆筑仓，以谷贱时增其贾而籴，以利农，谷贵时减贾而粜，名曰常平仓。
民便之。
上乃下诏，赐寿昌爵关内侯。
而蔡癸以好农使劝郡国，至大官。
元帝即位，天下大水，关东郡十一尤甚。
二年，齐地饥，谷石三百余，民多饿死，琅邪郡人相食。
translation: 
Xiao Wang, the imperial censor, said: "It turns out that the Xu Gong family of the imperial censor's subordinates lives in Shulai. He said that the sea rent was increased in previous years and the fish would not come out."
The elders all said that during the reign of Emperor Wu, the county magistrate personally fished, but no fish came out of the sea. Later, they returned it to the people, and the fish came out.
Yin and Yang interact with each other, and things of the same kind correspond to each other. This is the case for all things.
Now Geng Shouchang plans to purchase grain from the nearby water transport pass, build warehouses and ships, which will cost more than 200 million yuan. It involves the working people, fearing that a drought will occur and the people will suffer from it.
Geng Shouchang was accustomed to calculating things of one cent and one baht. His far-reaching calculations and thinking were really not up to the task. It would be better to remain as before.
The emperor did not listen.
Water transportation was indeed convenient, so Geng Shouchang asked for instructions and ordered the border counties to build warehouses. When the price of grain was low, the price was increased to buy in order to benefit farmers. When the price of grain was high, the price was sold at a reduced price, which was called Changping warehouse.
People feel convenient.
The emperor issued an edict and granted Geng Shouchang the title of Marquis of Guannei.
Because Cai Gui liked agriculture, he served as an envoy to encourage the country and became a high official.
Emperor Yuan ascended the throne and the world was flooded, especially in the eleven counties of Guandong.
In the second year of Emperor Yuan's reign, there was a famine in Qi. A grain of rice cost more than 300 yuan per stone. Many people starved to death. People in Langxie County were cannibals.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
在位诸儒多言盐、铁官及北假田官、常平仓可罢，毋与民争利。
上从其议，皆罢之。
又罢建章、甘泉宫卫、角抵、齐三服官，省禁苑以予贫民，减诸侯王庙卫卒半。
又减关中卒五百人，转谷赈贷穷乏。
其后用度不足，独复盐铁官。
成帝时，天下亡兵革之事，号为安乐，然俗奢侈，不以蓄聚为意。
永始二年，梁国、平原郡比年伤水灾，人相食，刺史、守、相坐免。
哀帝即位，师丹辅政，建言： 古之圣王莫不设井田，然后治乃可平。
孝文皇帝承亡周乱秦兵革之后，天下空虚，故务劝农桑，帅以节俭。
民始充实，未有并兼之害，故不为民田及奴婢为限。
今累世承平，豪富吏民訾数巨万，而贫弱俞困。
盖君子为政，贵因循而重改作，然所以有改者，将以救急也。亦未可详，宜略为限。
天子下其议。
translation: 
Most of the Confucian scholars in official positions said that Yantie Palace, Beijia Tianguan and Changpingcang could be dismissed, and they should not compete for interests with the people.
The emperor listened to their opinions and dismissed Yantieguan, Beijiatianguan and Changpingcang.
He also dismissed the palace guards of Jianzhang and Ganquan, Jiaodui, Qi San served as officials, reduced the number of forbidden gardens to provide for the poor, and reduced the number of guards in the princes' temples by half.
He also reduced the number of soldiers in Guanzhong by 500 and transferred grain to help the poor.
After that, due to insufficient funds, only Yantieguan was restored.
When he became emperor, there was no war in the world and it could be said to be peaceful. However, the people's customs were extravagant and they did not consider saving and hoarding.
In the second year of Yongshi, Liang State and Pingyuan County suffered from floods for consecutive years, and cannibalism occurred. The governor and county governor were dismissed from office for crimes.
Emperor Ai ascended the throne, and Shi Dan assisted in political affairs. He suggested: In ancient times, wise kings always established well fields and then managed them to achieve peace.
Emperor Xiaowen inherited the emptiness of the world after the collapse of the Zhou Dynasty and the violent wars of the Qin Dynasty, so he devoted himself to encouraging the people to engage in farming and mulberry farming, and set an example for the world with frugality.
The people had just begun to enrich themselves, and there was no danger of annexation, so there were no restrictions on people's land and slaves.
Nowadays, generations of peace have passed down, and the wealthy and officials have a lot of property, but the poor and weak are even poorer.
When a gentleman engages in politics, it is valuable to keep the old laws without changing them, so it is difficult to make changes and innovations. However, the reason why there are reforms is because they are used to save emergencies. However, it is not a complete change and should be roughly restricted.
The emperor conveyed his suggestions to his ministers.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
丞相孔光、大司空何武奏请： 诸侯王、列侯皆得名田国中。
列侯在长安，公主名田县道，及关内侯、吏、民名田，皆毋过三十顷。
请侯王奴婢二百人，列侯、公主百人，关内侯、吏、民三十人。
期尽三年，犯者没入官。
时田宅奴婢贾为减贱，丁、傅用事，董贤隆贵，皆不便也。
诏书： 且须后 ，遂寝不行。
宫室、苑囿、府库之臧已侈，百姓訾富虽不及文、景，然天下户口最盛矣。
平帝崩，王莽居摄，遂篡位。
王莽因汉承平之业，匈奴称籓，百蛮宾服，舟车所通，尽为臣妾，府库百官之富，天下晏然。
莽一朝有之，其心意未满，狭小汉家制度，以为疏阔。
宣帝始赐单于印玺，与天子同，而西南夷钅句町称王。
莽乃遣使易单于印，贬钅句町王为侯。
translation: 
Prime Minister Kong Guang and Grand Sikong Hewu submitted a petition requesting that all princes, kings and princes receive privately owned land in the country.
The land held by the princes in Chang'an, the princess in each county, and the land held by the princes and officials in Guannei in their private names should not exceed thirty hectares.
The number of slaves for the princes and kings is two hundred, the number of slaves for the princes and princesses is one hundred, and the number of slaves for the princes and officials in Guan Nei is thirty.
There is a three-year period, and any violation will be confiscated to the government.
At that time, the price of slaves in the fields and houses was reduced, Ding and Fu were in power, and Dong Xian was high-ranking, which was not good for them.
The emperor's order was postponed for the time being, but later it was stopped and not implemented.
There are already many collections in the palaces, gardens, and treasury. Although the wealth of the people is not as good as that of Emperor Wen and Emperor Jing, the population is the largest in the world.
After the death of Emperor Ping, Wang Mang became regent and he usurped the throne.
Wang Mang followed the Han Dynasty's achievements in peace and stability. The Huns became vassals and all barbarians obeyed. The places where boats and carriages passed were all subjects. The wealth of the treasury and hundreds of officials made the world comfortable.
Wang Mang took possession of it one day, but his heart was not satisfied. He despised the Han system and thought it was imprecise.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, Shanyu began to be given seals, which were the same as those of the Emperor, and Yigou Town in the southwest became king.
Wang Mang sent an envoy to replace Shanyu's seal and demoted the king of Gouding to a marquis.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
二方始怨，侵犯边境。
莽遣兴师，发三十万众，欲同时十道并出，一举灭匈奴；募发天下囚徒、丁男、甲卒转委输兵器，自负海江、淮而至北边，使者驰传督趣，海内扰矣。
又动欲慕古，不度时宜，分裂州郡，改职作官，下令曰： 汉氏减轻田租，三十而税一，常有更赋，罢癃咸出，而豪民侵陵，分田劫假，厥名三十，实十税五也。
富者骄而为邪，贫者穷而为奸，俱陷于辜，刑用不错。
今更名天下田曰王田，奴婢曰私属，皆不得卖买。
其男口不满八，而田过一井者，分余田与九族乡党。
犯令，法至死，制度又不定，吏缘为奸，天下謷謷然，陷刑者众。
后三年，莽知民愁，下诏诸食王田及私属皆得卖买，勿拘以法。
然刑罚深刻，它政誖乱。
边兵二十余万人仰县官衣食，用度不足，数横赋敛，民俞贫困。
translation: 
The two parties began to harbor resentments and invade the border.
Wang Mang then mobilized his army and sent three soldiers! The army of ten thousand planned to set out in ten groups at the same time to wipe out the Xiongnu in one fell swoop. Prisoners, adult men, and soldiers from all over the world were recruited to transport military supplies and weapons from the Jiang and Huaihe rivers backed by the sea to the north. Envoys drove vehicles to supervise, and the sea was disrupted.
They often imitated ancient times without considering the current situation, divided states and counties, changed the functions of officials, established official positions, and issued orders: In the Han Dynasty, land rents were reduced and one-thirtieth of the tax was collected. Money was often paid in lieu of military service taxes, and those who were disabled or sick had to pay. Moreover, powerful people invaded and divided the fields to seize tax revenue.
The nominal tax is one for thirty, but in reality it is a five-tenth tax. The rich are arrogant and evil, the poor are desperate and go astray, all are innocent, and the instruments of torture are not idle.
Now the Tianxia Tian is renamed Wang Tian, ​​and the slaves are called private servants, and they are not allowed to be sold or bought.
If there are less than eight men in the family and the field exceeds one well, the extra field will be distributed to the villagers of the Nine Nationalities.
Anyone who violates the law will be sentenced to death according to the law, but the system is not determined. Officials took this as an offense, and there was a lot of resentment in the world, and many people were punished.
Three years later, Wang Mang knew that the people were miserable and issued an edict to the kings! You can sell and buy your personal belongings without being arrested by law.
But the punishments were severe and the politics were chaotic.
There were more than 200,000 soldiers on the border who relied on the emperor for food and clothing. The expenses were insufficient, and several brutal taxes were imposed, making the people even poorer.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
常苦枯旱，亡有平岁，谷贾翔贵。
末年，盗贼群起，发军击之，将吏放纵于外。
北边及青、徐地人相食，雒阳以东米石二千。
莽遣三公将军开东方诸仓赈贷穷乏，又分遣大夫谒者教民煮木为酪；酪不可食，重为烦扰。
流民入关者数十万人，置养澹官以廪之，吏盗其廪，饥死者什七八。
莽耻为政所至，乃下诏曰： 予遭阳九之厄，百六之会，枯、旱、霜、蝗，饥馑荐臻，蛮夷猾夏，寇贼奸轨，百姓流离。
予甚悼之，害气将究矣。
岁为此言，以至于亡。
translation: 
It often suffers from droughts and in unsafe years, grain prices soar.
In the last years of Wang Mang's life, thieves gathered in groups and he sent troops to attack them, but the generals left the soldiers alone.
The phenomenon of cannibalism appeared in the north and Qing and Xu areas. To the east of Luoyang, one meter per stone cost two thousand.
Wang Mang sent General Sangong to open various granaries in the east to help the poor people. He also sent doctors and envoys to teach the people how to cook grass and trees to make cheese. The cheese could not be eaten, which added to the trouble.
Hundreds of thousands of refugees entered Guanzhong, and support officials were set up to provide for them. The officials also stole their supplies, and eight out of ten people died of hunger.
Wang Mang felt shameful about his politics, so he went down to Shao and said: I have suffered from the hardships of Yangjiu, Bailiu, drought, frost, locusts, famines, barbarians disrupting China, bandits and bandits, and people displaced.
I am very sad and afraid that my life is about to end.
Say this every year until he dies.


