Chunk 0: 
original: 
任光字伯卿，南阳宛人也。
少忠厚，为乡里所爱。
初为乡啬夫、郡县吏。
汉兵至宛，军人见光冠服鲜明，令解衣，将杀而夺之。
会光禄勋刘赐适至，视光容貌长者，乃救全之。
光因率党与从赐，为安集掾，拜偏将军，与世祖破王寻、王邑。
更始至洛阳，以光为信都太守。
及王郎起，郡国皆降之，光独不肯，遂与都尉李忠、令万脩、功曹阮况、五官掾郭唐等同心固守。
廷掾持王郎檄诣府白光，光斩之于市，以徇百姓，发精兵四千人城守。
更始二年春，世祖自蓟还，狼狈不知所向，传闻信都独为汉拒邯郸，即驰赴之。
光等孤城独守，恐不能全，闻世祖至，大喜，吏民皆称万岁，即时开门，与李忠、万脩率官属迎谒。
世祖入传舍，谓光曰： 伯卿，今势力虚弱，欲俱入城头子路、力子都兵中，何如邪？ 光曰： 不可。 世祖曰： 卿兵少，如何？ 光曰： 可募发奔命，出攻傍县，若不降者，恣听掠之。
人贪财物，则兵可招而致也。 世祖从之。
拜光为左大将军，封武成侯，留南阳宗广领信都太守事，使光将兵从。
光乃多作檄文曰： 大司马刘公将城头子路、力子都兵百万众从东方来，击诸反虏。 遣骑驰至巨鹿界中。
translation: 
◆Ren Guangchuan Ren Guangzi Boqing was born in Wan County, Nanyang County.
He was loyal and loyal in his youth and loved by the villagers.
At first he was a local miser and a county official.
When the Han soldiers arrived in Wan, the soldiers saw Ren Guang's bright uniform and ordered him to take off his clothes, preparing to kill him and seize his clothes.
Just then Guang Luxun and Liu Ci arrived. Seeing that Ren Guang looked like an elder, he rescued him.
Ren Guang led his disciples to follow Liu Ci, to secure the governorship, and to worship him as a partial general. Together with his ancestors, he defeated Wang Xun and Wang Yi.
Gengshi arrived in Luoyang and appointed Ren Guang as the governor of Xindu.
When Wang Lang rose up, all the prefectures and states surrendered to Wang Lang. Ren Guangdu refused, so he and the captains Li Zhong, Ling Wanxiu, Gong Cao Ruan Kuang, Wu Guan Yu Guo Tang and others stood firm.
Ting Ping took Wang Lang's message to Ren Guang's house to persuade Ren Guang. Ren Guang beheaded Ting Ping in the city to declare to the people, and sent 4,000 elite soldiers to strengthen the city defense.
In the spring of the second year of Gengshi, Shizu came back from Ji and was so embarrassed that he didn't know where to go. Hearing that Xindu was alone in the Han Dynasty and rejected the prince, he rushed to Xindu.
Ren Guang and others were guarding the isolated city alone, fearing that they would not be able to save it. When they heard that Shizu had arrived, they were overjoyed. The officials and the people all said long live the city. They immediately opened the door and, together with Li Zhong and Wan Xiu, led the officials to welcome Jin Ye.
When Shizu arrived at his residence, he said to Ren Guang: "Boqing, we are now alone and weak. I want to go with you to the soldiers at Chengtouzi Road and Lizidu. What do you think?" Ren Guang said: No. Shizu said: You have few soldiers, what should you do? Ren Guang said: We can recruit quick troops to attack neighboring counties. If they do not surrender, we will let them plunder.
People are greedy for money, so soldiers can be recruited. Shizu obeyed.
He appointed Ren Guang as the General of the Left and granted him the title of Marquis of Wucheng. He left Nanyang Zongguang to take over the position of prefect of Xindu, allowing Ren Guang to lead his troops to follow him.
Ren Guang wrote more propaganda articles and said: Grand Sima Liu Gong led Chengtou Zilu and Lizidu and millions of soldiers came from the east to conquer the rebels from various ministries. He sent his horse galloping into the realm of giant deer.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
吏民得檄，传相告语。
世祖遂与光等投暮入堂阳界，使骑各持炬火，弥满泽中，光炎烛天地，举城莫不震惊惶怖，其夜即降。
旬日之间，兵众大盛，因攻城邑，遂屠邯郸，乃遣光归郡。
城头子路者，东平人，姓爰，名曾，字子路，与肥城刘诩起兵卢城头，故号其兵为 城头子路 。
曾自称 都从事 ，诩称 校三老 ，寇掠河、济间，众至二十余万。
更始立，曾遣使降，拜曾东莱郡太守，诩济南太守，皆行大将军事。
是岁，曾为其将所杀，众推诩为主，更始封诩助国侯，令罢兵归本郡。
力子都者，东海人也。起兵乡里，抄击徐、兖界，众有六七万。
更始立，遣使降，拜子都徐州牧。
为其部曲所杀，余党复相聚，与诸贼会于檀乡，因号为檀乡。
檀乡渠帅董次仲始起茌平，遂渡河入魏郡清河，与五校合，众十余万。
建武元年，世祖入洛阳，遣大司马吴汉等击檀乡，明年春，大破降之。
是岁，更封光阿陵侯，食邑万户。
五年，征诣京师，奉朝请。
其冬卒。
子隗嗣。
translation: 
Officials and the people received the proclamation and circulated it to each other.
Shizu then entered Tangyang Realm with Ren Guang and others at dusk, and ordered the cavalry to each hold a torch, so that the fire filled the lake and illuminated the sky and the earth. Everyone in the city was shocked and horrified, and they surrendered that night.
In ten days, the army's strength increased greatly, so they turned to attack the city and captured Handan, so they sent Ren Guang back to the county.
Chengtou Zilu was from Dongping, his surname was Yuan, his given name was Zeng, and his given name was Zilu. He and Liu Xu of Feicheng set up an army in Chengtou, so he called his army Chengtou Zilu.
Zilu claimed that he was engaged in military affairs, and Liu Xu called him the three elders of the school. He invaded and plundered between the Yellow River and Jishui, and his troops numbered more than 200,000.
When Gengshi was established, Yuan Zeng sent envoys to surrender. Gengshi worshiped Yuan Zeng as the prefect of Donglai County and Liu Xu as the prefect of Jinan, both of whom exercised military power as generals.
In this year, Yuan was killed by his subordinates, and Liu Xu was elected as the leader. Liu Xu was granted the title of Marquis of Help, and ordered him to withdraw his troops and return to his county.
Li Zidu, a native of Donghai, raised troops in the countryside, plundered and attacked Xuzhou and Yanzhou, with a tribe of 60,000 to 70,000 people.
Gengshi was established, and his envoys were sent to surrender. They all worshiped Lizi as the shepherd of Xuzhou.
He was killed by his subordinates, and the rest of the party gathered again to meet the thieves in Tanxiang, so they were named Tanxiang.
Dong Cizhong, the commander-in-chief of Tanxiang, started from Chiping County, crossed the river into Qinghe, Wei County, and joined the five schools with more than 100,000 troops.
In the first year of Jianwu, Shizu entered Luoyang and sent the Grand Sima Wu Han army to attack Tanxiang. In the spring of the next year, Tanxiang failed and surrendered.
In this year, Ren Guang was granted the title of Marquis of Aling, with a population of over 10,000 households.
In the fifth year of Jianwu's reign, he was recruited to the capital and invited by the court.
He died in the winter of that year.
The son was appointed as the heir to the throne.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
后阮况为南阳太守，郭唐至河南尹，皆有能名。
隗字仲和，少好黄、老，清静寡欲，所得奉秩，常以赈恤宗族，收养孤寡。
父为高密都尉。忠元始中以父任为郎，署中数十人，而忠独以好礼修整称。王莽时为新博属长，郡中咸敬信之。
更始立，使使者行郡国，即拜忠都尉官。
忠遂与任光同奉世祖，以为右大将军，封武固侯。
时，世祖自解所佩绶以带忠，因从攻下属县。至苦陉，世祖会诸将，问所得财物，唯忠独无所掠。
世祖曰： 我欲特赐，李忠，诸卿得无望乎？ 即以所乘大骊马及绣被衣物赐之。
诸将皆惊曰： 家属在人手中，杀其弟，何猛也！ 忠曰： 若纵贼不诛，则二心也。 世祖闻而美之，谓忠曰： 今吾兵已成矣，将军可归救老母、妻、子，宜自募吏民能得家属者，赐钱千万，来从我取。 忠曰： 蒙明公大恩，思得效命，诚不敢内顾宗亲。 世祖乃使任光将兵救信都，光兵于道散降王郎，无功而还。
会更始遣将攻破信都，忠家属得全。
世祖因使忠还，行太守事，收郡中大姓附邯郸者，诛杀数百人。
及任光归郡，忠乃还复为都尉。
translation: 
◆Li Zhongchuan
Li Zhong, courtesy name Zhongdu, was from Huang County, Donglai County.
His father is the captain of Gaomi. During the reign of Emperor Li Zhongping, his father was appointed as the minister, and he had dozens of people in his office. However, Li Zhong was famous for his good manners and neat grooming. Wang Mang was the chief of Xinbo at that time, and everyone in the county respected and trusted him.
After Gengshi ascended the throne, he sent envoys to patrol the prefecture and the country, and then worshiped Li Zhong as the captain.
Li Zhong and Ren Guang jointly worshiped the ancestors of the world and became the right generals, and they were granted the title of Wu Guhou.
At that time, Shizu took off the ribbon he was wearing and put it on for Li Zhong, so he attacked the subordinate counties from Shizu and arrived at Kushan County. Shizu met with the generals and asked them what property they had obtained, but Li Zhong was the only one who did not plunder it.
Shizu said: I want to reward Li Zhong specially. You won't have any resentment, right? He gave Li Zhong a large horse and embroidered quilt and clothes.
All the generals were horrified and said: "Your mother and wife are still in the hands of others. Isn't it too much to kill his brother?" Li Zhong said: If you don't punish the rebels, you are having second thoughts. After hearing this, Shizu praised Li Zhong and said: Now that my army is ready, the general can go back to save your mother and wife. I want to recruit officials and people who can save their families. I will give you a reward of tens of millions. Come to me to receive it. Li Zhong said: I am so grateful to Duke Ming. I only think about serving the public and I really don't dare to take care of my family. Shizu ordered Ren Guang to lead his troops to rescue Xindu. Ren Guang's troops scattered on the road and surrendered to Wang Lang. Ren Guang returned without success.
It happened that Gengshi sent generals to conquer Xindu, and Li Zhong's family was safe.
Shizu then asked Li Zhong to return to Xindu and perform the duties of governor. Li Zhong killed hundreds of people in the county who had surnamed Wang Lang.
When Ren Guang returned to the county, Li Zhong was restored to the rank of captain.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
建武二年，更封中水侯，食邑三千户。
其年，征拜五官中郎将，从平宠萌，董宪等。
六年，迁丹阳太守。
是时，海内新定，南方海滨江淮，多拥兵据土。
忠到郡，招怀降附，其不服者悉诛之，旬月皆平。
忠以丹阳越俗不好学，嫁娶礼仪，衰于中国，乃为起学校，习礼容，春秋乡饮，选用明经，郡中向慕之。
垦田增多，三岁间流民占著者五万余口。
永初七年，邓太后复封纯琴亭侯。
纯卒，子广嗣。
万脩字君游，扶风茂陵人也。
更始时，为信都令，与太守任光、都尉李忠共城守，迎世祖，拜为偏将军，封造义侯。
及破邯郸，拜右将军，从平河北。
建武二年，更封槐里侯。
translation: 
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Zhongshui, with a settlement of 3,000 households.
In this year, Zheng was worshiped as Wugan Zhonglang General, and followed to pacify Pang Meng, Dong Xian and others.
In the sixth year of Jianwu's reign, he moved to Danyang to be the prefect.
At this time, the country had just been calmed down, and many people in the Jianghuai area along the southern coast were supporting troops to seize control.
Li Zhong went to the county and recruited envoys to join him. All those who disobeyed were killed, and they were all put down within ten days.
Li Zhong thought Danyang was more vulgar and did not like to study, and the wedding ceremony was not as grand as that in the Central Plains, so he set up a school to learn etiquette, held ceremonies in the Spring and Autumn Period, selected people who were proficient in classics, and presided over it by people who admired him in the county.
As a result, more land was cultivated, and within three years, more than 50,000 refugees became local indigenous people.
In the 14th year of Jianwu's reign, he was ranked first in the world in the Sangong assessment and was moved to Yuzhang as the prefect. He was dismissed from office due to illness and was recruited to the capital.
Jianwu died in the 19th year.
◆Wan Xiu Chuan Wan Xiu, named Junyou, was from Maoling, Fufeng County.
At the time of Gengshi, in order to obey the capital order, he guarded the city together with the prefect Ren Guang and the captain Li Zhong, welcomed the ancestors, worshiped him as a partial general, and created a righteous marquis.
After Handan was defeated, he was appointed as the right general and followed him to pacify Hebei.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Huaili.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
与扬化将军坚镡俱击南阳，未克而病，卒于军。
子普嗣，徙封泫氏侯。
普卒，子亲嗣，徙封扶柳侯。
亲卒，无子，国除。
永初七年，邓太后绍封脩曾孙丰为曲平亭侯。
丰卒，子炽嗣。
永建元年，炽卒，无子，国除。
延熹二年，桓帝绍封脩玄孙恭为门德亭侯。
邳彤字伟君，信都人也。
父吉，为辽西太守。
彤初为王莽和成卒正。
世祖徇河北，至下曲阳，彤举城降，复以为太守，留止数日。
世祖北至蓟，会王郎兵起，使其将徇地，所到县莫不奉迎，唯和成、信都坚守不下。
彤闻世祖从蓟还，失军，欲至信都，乃先使五官掾张万、督邮尹绥，选精骑二千余匹，缘路迎世祖军。
彤寻与世祖会信都。
世祖虽得二郡之助，而兵众未合，议者多言可因信都兵自送，西还长安。
彤廷对曰：议者之言皆非也。
吏民歌吟思汉久矣，故更始举尊号而天下响应，三辅清宫除道以迎之。
translation: 
He and General Jiantan of Yanghua attacked Nanyang together, but failed to capture it and fell ill and died in the army.
Zi Wanpu succeeded to the throne and was granted the title of Marquis of the Hu clan.
Wan Pu died, his son Wan Qin succeeded him to the throne, and he moved to Fuliu Hou.
Ten thousand relatives died, no children, the feudal state was abolished.
In the seventh year of Yongchu's reign, Mrs. Deng later granted Wanxiu's great-grandson Wanfeng the title of Marquis of Qupingting.
Wan Feng died, and his son Wan Chi succeeded him.
In the first year of Yongjian's reign, Wan Chi died without any children, and the feudal state was abolished.
In the second year of Yanxi, Emperor Huan renewed the title of Wan Gong, the great-great-grandson of Wan Xiu, as Marquis of Mendeting.
◆Pi Tong Biography: Pi Tong, courtesy name Weijun, was a native of Xindu.
His father, Pi Ji, was the governor of western Liaoning.
Pitong initially served as Wang Mang and Cheng Zuzheng.
Shizu captured Hebei and reached Xiaquyang. Pitong surrendered the city, and Shizu made Pitong the governor and stayed for a few days.
Shizu went north to Ji, and it happened that Wang Lang's army rose up and sent generals to conquer the land. Every county he went to welcomed him, but Hecheng and Xin could not hold on.
When Pitong heard that Shizu had lost his army when he returned from Ji and was preparing to go to Xindu, he first sent Zhang Wan, the Five Officials Commander, and Yin Sui, the Superintendent of Posts, to select more than 2,000 horses to meet Shizu's army along the road.
Pitong soon met Shizu in Xindu.
Although Shizu received help from the two counties, the soldiers did not gather. Many of his subordinates said that they could send him back to Chang'an west by letter.
Pi Tong immediately replied: What the commentators said is wrong.
The officials and the people had been praising the Han Dynasty for a long time, so when Gengshi came to the throne, the whole country responded. The third auxiliary of the Qing Dynasty swept the couches and cleared the roads to welcome him.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
一夫荷戟大呼，则千里之将无不捐城遁逃，虏伏请降。
自上古以来，亦未有感物动民其如此者也。
又卜者王郎，假名因势，驱集乌合之众，遂震燕、赵之地；况明公奋二郡之兵，扬响应之威，以攻则何城不克，以战则何军不服！
今释此而归，岂徒空失河北，必要惊动三辅，堕损威重，非计之得者也。
若明公无复征伐之意，则虽信都之兵犹难会也。
何者？
明公既西，则邯郸城民不肯捐父母、背城主，而千里送公，其离散亡逃可必也。
世祖善其言而止。
即日拜彤为后大将军，和成太守如故，使将兵居前。
比至堂阳，堂阳已反属王郎，彤使张万、尹绥先晓譬吏民，世祖夜至，即开门出迎。
引兵击破白奢贼于中山。
自此常从战攻。
translation: 
If one man raises his halberd and shouts, all the generals from thousands of miles away will offer their city and flee, and the thieves will prostrate themselves and beg to surrender.
Since ancient times, no animal or human has reached this level of sensitivity.
That prince was just a fortune-teller who took advantage of the chaos in the world under the guise of the Liu clan and mobilized a mob to frighten the land of Yan and Zhao. What's more, Ming Gong raised the troops of the two counties and promoted the power of response. If you want to attack, no city can be conquered, if you want to fight, no army can't surrender!
If you abandon this and return now, you will not only lose Hebei, but also alarm the three assistants. Once the prestige and reputation are lost, this is not a good plan.
If Duke Ming had no intention of conquest again, then even if there were soldiers from Xindu, it would be difficult to meet him.
Why?
Now that Ming Gong has returned to the west, the people of Handan are unwilling to abandon their parents and the city lord, and send the Duke back to the west after thousands of miles. Their separation and flight is inevitable.
The founder of Shizu did good deeds and stopped returning to the west.
Immediately, I appointed Pi Tong as the general of the rear, and asked him to lead the troops in front as the prefect did in the past.
When they arrived at Tangyang, Tangyang belonged to Wang Lang. Pitong sent Zhang Wan and Yin Sui to inform the officials and people first. When Shizu arrived at night, Tangyang opened the door to welcome him.
He also led troops to defeat the Baishe bandits in Zhongshan.
From then on, Pitong often attacked and fought from Shizu.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
信都复反为王郎，郎所置信都王捕系彤父弟及妻子，使为手书呼彤曰： 降者封爵，不降族灭。 彤涕泣报曰： 事君者不得顾家。
彤亲属所以至今得安于信都者，刘公之恩也。
公方争国事，彤不得复念私也。 会更始所遣将攻拔信都，郎兵败走，彤家属得免。
及拔邯郸，封武义侯。
建武元年，更封灵寿侯，行大司空事。
帝入洛阳，拜彤太常，月余日转少府，是年免。
复为左曹侍中，常从征伐。
六年，就国。
彤卒，子汤嗣，九年，徙封乐陵侯。
十九年，汤卒，子某嗣；无子，国除。
元初元年，邓太后绍封彤孙音为平亭侯。
音卒、子柴嗣。
初，张万，尹绥与彤俱迎世祖，皆拜偏将军，亦从征伐。
万封重平侯，绥封平台侯。
translation: 
Xindu was restored and surrendered to Wang Lang. The Xindu king set up by Wang Lang arrested and imprisoned Pitong's uncle, wife and children, and asked them to call Pitong in handwriting and say: If you surrender, you will be crowned, if you don't surrender, your clan will be exterminated. Pitong cried and reported: "Those who serve the king should not take care of their families."
It is Liu Gong's kindness that Pitong's relatives are still able to settle down in Xindu.
Liu Gong is currently busy with state affairs, and I, Pi Tong, must not worry about private matters. It happened that the generals sent by Gengshi captured Xindu, and Wang Lang's troops were defeated, so Pitong's family was spared.
After capturing Handan, he granted Pitong the title of Marquis of Wuyi.
In the first year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Marquis Lingshou and acted as the chief minister in charge of affairs.
When the emperor entered Luoyang, he worshiped Pi Tong as Taichang. He transferred to the Shaofu in the remaining months of the month and was exempted from Taichang's duties this year.
Then he served as Zuo Cao's servant and often went on expeditions.
In the sixth year of Jianwu, he returned to the feudal state.
When Pitong died, his son Pitang succeeded him. In the ninth year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Marquis of Leling.
In the 19th year of Jianwu's reign, Pitang died, and his son Pi took the throne. He had no children, and the feudal state was abolished.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, Mrs. Deng subsequently granted Pitong and Sun Piyin the title of Pingtinghou.
When Pi Yin died, his son Pi Chai succeeded him.
At first, Zhang Wan, Yin Sui and Pi Tong welcomed Shizu, and they all worshiped him as partial generals and followed him in the expedition.
Zhang Wan was granted the title of Chongping Marquis, and Yin Sui was granted the title of Platform Marquis.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
论曰：凡言成事者，以功著易显；谋几初者，以理隐难昭。
斯固原情比迹，所宜推察者也。
若乃议者欲因二郡之众，建入关之策，委成业，临不测，而世主未悟，谋夫景同，邳彤之廷对，其为几乎！
语曰 一言可以兴邦 ，斯近之矣。
刘植字伯先，巨鹿昌城人也。
王郎起，植与弟喜、从兄歆率宗族宾客，聚兵数千人据昌城。
闻世祖从蓟还，乃开门迎世祖，以植为骁骑将军，喜、歆偏将军，皆为列侯。
时真定王刘扬起兵以附王郎，众十余万，世祖遣植说扬，扬乃降。
世祖因留真定，纳郭后，后即扬之甥也，故以此结之。
乃与扬及诸将置酒郭氏漆里舍，扬击筑为欢，因得进兵拔邯郸，从平河北。
translation: 
The historian commented: Anyone who talks about success is easy to become famous because of his outstanding achievements; those who plan things in advance are difficult to be known because of their obscure reasons.
This is of course based on actual comparison and should be reasoned and investigated.
As for Shizu, although he had gained the people of the two counties, he still wanted to return to Chang'an in the west, abandon his achievements, and face unexpected situations, but Shizu did not realize it, and all those who made suggestions agreed to follow him. In this case, aren't Pitong's words prescient!
The Analects of Confucius says, "One sentence can make a country prosperous." Pi Tong's words are very close.
◆Biography of Liu Zhi Liu Zhi, courtesy name Boxian, was a native of Changcheng, Julu.
After Wang Lang's uprising, Liu Zhi, his younger brother Liu happy, and his elder brother Liu Xin led thousands of clan guests to occupy Changcheng.
When Shizu heard that Shizu had returned from Ji, he opened the city gate to welcome Shizu. Shizu made Liu Zhi his valiant cavalry general, Liu happy and Liu Xin his partial generals, and they were all granted the title of marquis.
At this time, Liu Yang, the king of Zhending, raised an army to surrender to Wang Lang. There were more than 100,000 people. The ancestor of the emperor sent Liu Zhi to persuade Liu Yang, and Liu Yang surrendered.
Therefore, Shizu stayed in Zhending and took in Empress Guo. Empress Guo was Liu Yang's niece, so she made a strong connection with her.
So he and Liu Yang and other generals held a banquet to celebrate at Guo's home in Qili. Liu Yang was so happy that he built a building for it, so he had to march to capture Handan and follow him to pacify Hebei.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
建武二年，更封植为昌城侯。
讨密县贼，战殁。
子向嗣。
帝使喜代将植营，复为骁骑将军，封观津侯。
喜卒，复以歆为骁骑将军，封浮阳侯。
喜、歆从征伐，皆传国于后。
向徙封东武阳侯，卒，子述嗣，永平十五年，坐与楚王英谋反，国除。
耿纯字伯山，巨鹿宋子人也。
父艾，为王莽济平尹。
纯学于长安，因除为纳言士。
王莽败，更始立，使舞阴王李轶降诸郡国，纯父艾降，还为济南太守。
时李轶兄弟用事，专制方面，宾客游说者甚众。
纯连求谒不得通，久之乃得见，因说轶曰： 大王以龙虎之姿，遭风云之时，奋迅拔起，期月之间兄弟称王，而德信不闻于士民，功劳未施于百姓，宠禄暴兴，此智者之所忌也。
translation: 
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, Liu Zhi was granted the title of Marquis of Changcheng.
He defeated the bandits in Mi County and died in the war.
His son Liu Xiang succeeded him.
The emperor's envoy Liu happy led Liu Zhi's army on his behalf, and was granted the title of General Xiaoqi and the title of Marquis of Guanjin.
After Liu happy's death, Liu Xin was made a heroic cavalry general and was granted the title of Marquis of Fuyang.
Liu happy and Liu Xin followed the expedition and both passed down the feudal state to their descendants.
Liu Xiang was granted the title of Marquis of Dongwuyang. After his death, his son Liu Shu succeeded to the throne. In the fifteenth year of Yongping, the feudal state was abolished because of his involvement in the rebellion of Chu King Liu Ying.
◆The biography of Geng Chun Geng Chun, courtesy name Boshan, was born in the Song Dynasty in Julu.
His father, Geng Ai, is Wang Mang Ji Pingyin.
Geng Chun studied in Chang'an, so he was awarded the title of Nayanshi.
Wang Mang was defeated and Gengshi ascended the throne, causing Wuyang King Li Yi to surrender to various counties. Geng Chun's father Geng Ai surrendered and returned to serve as the prefect of Jinan.
At that time, brother Li Yi was in power and acted arbitrarily, and there was a lot of lobbying from guests.
Geng Chun asked for a meeting many times but was not informed. It took a long time before he was able to see him. So he said to Li Yi: Your Majesty, with the majestic appearance of a dragon and a tiger, met at the stormy moment and rose up quickly. Within a month, the brothers became kings. However, the scholars and the people did not know what your virtues were, and you did not publicize your merits to the people. Sudden favors and official positions are taboo for smart people.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
兢兢自危，犹惧不终，而况沛然自足，可以成功者乎？ 轶奇之，且以其巨鹿大姓，乃承制拜为骑都尉，授以节，令安集赵、魏。
会世祖度河至邯郸，纯即谒见，世祖深接之。
纯退，见官属将兵法度不与它将同，遂求自结纳，献马及缣帛数百匹。
世祖北至中山，留纯邯郸。
会王郎反，世祖自蓟东南驰，纯与从昆弟、宿、植共率宗族宾客二千余人，老病者皆载木自随，奉迎于育。
拜纯为前将军，封耿乡侯，、宿、植皆偏将军，使与纯居前，降宋子，从攻下曲阳及中山。
是时，郡国多降邯郸者，纯恐宗家怀异心，乃使、宿归烧其庐舍。
世祖问纯故，对曰： 窃见明公单车临河北，非有府臧之蓄，重赏甘饵，可以聚人者也，徒以恩德怀之，是故士众乐附。
今邯郸自立，北州疑惑，纯虽举族归命，老弱在行，犹恐宗人宾客半有不同心者，故燔烧屋室，绝其反顾之望。 世祖汉息。
及至鄗，世祖止传舍，鄗大姓苏公反城开门内王郎将李惲。
translation: 
I am afraid that if I work hard and be vigilant and self-sufficient, I will not end well, let alone if I suddenly break out and become self-sufficient, can I succeed? Li Yi was very strange, and because Geng Chun was Julu's surname, he accepted Geng Chun as the cavalry captain according to the emperor's decree, awarded him the talisman, and ordered him to settle in Zhao.
It happened that Shizu crossed the river to Handan, and Geng Chun went to see him. Shizu happily received him.
Geng Chun retreated and saw that the methods of commanding the army by his officials were different from other generals, so he asked to make friends and adopt them himself, and donated hundreds of horses and silk.
Shizu went north to Zhongshan, leaving Geng Chun in Handan.
Coinciding with Wang Langzhao, Shizu ran from Ji to the southeast. Geng Chun, together with his younger brothers Geng Yanjin, Geng Su and Geng Zhi, led more than 2,000 guests from the clan. The old and sick all carried coffins to welcome Shizu in Yu County.
Geng Chun was worshiped as the former general and Geng Xianghou was granted the title. Geng Genjin, Geng Su, and Geng Zhi were all worshiped as partial generals, so that they and Geng Chun were in the front line, surrendered to Songzi, and followed to capture Quyang and Zhongshan.
At this time, many counties surrendered to Handan. Geng Chun was afraid that the clan had double-minded intentions, so he sent Geng Jinjin and Geng Su back to burn down all the clan houses.
Shizu asked Geng Chun why he did this, and Geng Chun said: I saw Ming Gong coming to Hebei on his bicycle. He had no savings in the government, so he could use it as bait for a heavy reward.
Now that Handan has established its own title, Beizhou is confused. Even though I have surrendered my entire family to Duke Ming, and the old and the weak are traveling with me, I am still afraid of those who disagree with me among my clan members and guests, so I burned down my hut to eliminate any hope of him turning back. Shizu sighed.
When they arrived at Gaohuang, Shizu stopped at the inn. Su Gong, the surnamed Gaohuang, opened the city gate and let Wang Lang and Li Yun in.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
纯先觉知，将兵逆与惲战，大破斩之。
从平邯郸，又破铜马。
时，赤眉、青犊、上江、大彤、铁胫、五幡十余万众并在射犬，世祖引兵将击之。
纯军在前，去众营数里，贼忽夜攻纯，雨射营中，士多死伤。
纯勒部曲，坚守不动。
选敢死二千人，俱持强弩，各傅三矢，使衔枚间行，绕出贼后，齐声呼噪，强弩并发，贼众惊走，追击，遂破之。
驰骑白世祖。
世祖明旦与诸将俱至营，劳纯曰： 昨夜困乎？ 纯曰： 赖明公威德，幸而获全。 世祖曰： 大兵不可夜动，故不相救耳。
军营进退无常，卿宗族不可悉居军中。 乃以纯族人耿伋为蒲吾长，悉令将亲属居焉。
世祖即位，封纯高阳侯。
击刘永于济阴，下定陶。
初，纯从攻王郎，堕马折肩，时疾发，乃还诣怀宫。
帝问： 卿兄弟谁可使者？ 纯举从弟植，于是使植将纯营，纯犹以前将军从。
translation: 
Geng Chun discovered it first and led his troops to fight fiercely with Li Yun, defeating him and beheading him.
He followed and pacified Handan, and defeated the bronze horse.
At this time, more than 100,000 tribesmen from Chimei, Qingdu, Shangjiang, Datong, Tiejin and Wuban were shooting dogs, and Shizu led his troops to prepare for the attack.
Geng Chun's army was in front, a few miles away from the camp. The thieves suddenly attacked Geng Chun at night. Arrows rained down into the camp, killing many soldiers.
Geng Chun ordered his troops to stand firm.
A death squad of 2,000 people was selected, all armed with powerful crossbows and three arrows each. They ordered them to sneak with light cavalry, get behind the thieves, and shout in unison.
Geng Chun sent a fast horse to report to Shizu.
Early the next morning, Shizu and all the generals came to the camp and comforted Geng Chun, saying: "Were you sleepy last night?" Geng Chun said: By relying on the power of Ming Gong, luckily you will be safe. Shizu said: Soldiers are not allowed to move at night, so they did not rescue each other.
There are no rules for the advancement and retreat of the military camp. Your clan cannot all be in the army. He appointed Geng Ji, a member of Geng Chun's clan, as the chief of Puwu, and ordered all of Geng Chun's relatives to live in Puwu County.
Shizu ascended the throne and granted Geng Chun the title of Marquis of Gaoyang.
Attack Liu Yong at Jiyin and capture Dingtao.
At first, Geng Chun followed Wang Lang and broke his shoulder after falling off his horse. He often suffered from shoulder injuries, so he returned to the palace.
The emperor asked: Which of your brothers can be used? Geng Chun recommended his younger brother Geng Zhi to follow him, so he asked Geng Zhi to lead Geng Chun's army and horses. Geng Chun still followed his previous position as general.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
时真定王刘扬复造作谶记云： 赤九之后，癭扬为主。 扬病癭，欲以惑众，与绵曼贼交通。
建武二年春，遣骑都尉陈副、游击将军邓隆征扬，扬闭城门，不内副等。
乃复遣纯持节，行赦令于幽、冀，所过并使劳慰王侯。
密敕纯曰： 刘扬若见，因而收之。 纯从吏士百余骑与副、隆会元氏，俱至真定，止传舍。
扬称病不谒，以纯真定宗室之出，遣使与纯书，欲相见。
纯报曰： 奉使见王侯牧守，不得先诣，如欲面会，宜出传舍。 时，扬弟临邑侯让及从兄细各拥兵万余人，扬自恃众强而纯意安静，即从官属诣之，兄弟并将轻兵在门外。
扬入见纯，纯接以礼敬，因延请其兄弟，皆入，乃闭閤悉诛之，因勒兵而出。
真定震怖，无敢动者。
帝怜扬、让谋未发，并封其子，复故国。
translation: 
At this time, Zhending King Liu Yang made another prophecy and said: After Chijiu, Ying Yang will dominate. Liu Yang was suffering from gall disease and wanted to confuse the masses and associate with Mianman thieves.
In the spring of the second year of Jianwu, Guangwu sent Cavalry Captain Chen Fu and guerrilla general Deng Long to recruit Liu Yang. Liu Yang closed the city gates and prevented Chen Fu and others from entering the city.
So he sent Geng Chun to hold the talisman festival and issue amnesty orders to Youzhou and Jizhou. He also sent him to comfort the princes wherever he passed.
Geng Chun was secretly ordered to say: If Liu Yang sees you, arrest him. Geng Chun led more than a hundred cavalrymen, deputy Chen and Deng Long to meet Yuanshi, and together they arrived at Zhending and stayed in a hotel.
Liu Yang claimed that he was ill and refused to visit him. He thought Geng Chun was the son of a sister from the Zhending clan, so he sent an envoy to send a letter to Geng Chun, preparing to meet him.
Geng Chun reported back: "I have been entrusted to see the prince Mu Shou. I cannot go to see you first. If you want to meet, you should go to the tavern." At this time, Liu Yang's brother Linyi Marquis Liu Rang and his brother Liu Xi each had more than 10,000 troops. Liu Yang believed that his troops were strong and Geng Chunyi was quiet, so he took his officials and family to see him, while each brother led light troops outside the door.
Liu Yang went in and saw Geng Chun. Geng Chun treated him with courtesy and invited Liu Rang and Liu Xi into the house. He then closed the door and killed all Liu Yang brothers before leading his troops out.
They were really shocked and horrified, and no one dared to move.
The emperor took pity on Liu Yang and Liu Rang, so he banished their sons and restored their homeland before their conspiracy was launched.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
纯还京师，因自请曰： 臣本吏家子孙，幸遭大汉复兴，圣帝受命，备位列将，爵为通侯。
天下略定，臣无所用志，愿试治一郡，尽力自效。 帝笑曰： 卿既治武，复欲修文邪？ 乃拜纯为东郡太守。
时，东郡未平，纯视事数月，盗贼清宁。
四年，诏纯将兵击更始东平太守范荆，荆降。
进击太山济南及平原贼，皆平之。
居东郡四岁，时发干长有罪，纯案奏，围守之，奏未下，长自杀。
纯坐免，以列侯奉朝请。
从击董宪，道过东郡，百姓老小数千随东驾涕泣，云 愿复得耿君 。
帝谓公卿曰： 纯年少被甲胄为军吏耳，治郡乃能见思若是乎？
六年，定封为东光侯。
纯辞就国，帝曰： 文帝谓周勃 丞相吾所重，君为我率诸侯就国 ，今亦然也。 纯受诏而去。
translation: 
Geng Chun returned to the capital and requested: "I am originally a descendant of an official family. I am lucky enough to see the revival of the Han Dynasty and the Holy Lord ascending the throne. I have prepared to be a general and be given the title of Tonghou."
Now that the world has been calmed down, I have no place to display my talents. I am willing to try to govern a county and do my best to serve. The emperor smiled and said: "Do you want to practice martial arts as well as martial arts?" He worshiped Geng Chun as the prefect of Dongjun.
At that time, Dongjun had not yet been pacified, and Geng Chun had been in charge for several months, and the thieves were all at peace.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, Geng Chun was ordered to lead his troops to attack Fan Jing, the prefect of Dongping in Gengshi, and Fan Jing surrendered.
They also attacked the Taishan, Jinan and Pingyuan bandits and put them down.
In the fourth year of Judong County, Magistrate Faqian was found guilty. Geng Chun was imprisoned, and the magistrate was surrounded and guarded. However, the magistrate Faqian committed suicide because he could not come down.
Geng Chun was implicated and dismissed from his post, and the princes of Yilie came to court to invite him.
The followers attacked Dong Xian and passed by Dongjun. Thousands of people, old and young, followed Shizu's chariot and wept and cried, saying that they would like to win Geng Jun again.
The emperor said to the ministers: Geng Chun has only been wearing armor and working as a military official since he was a child. How can he, as the prefect of Dongjun, be so missed by the people?
In the sixth year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Dongguang Hou.
Geng Chun said goodbye to the country, and the emperor said: Emperor Wen said to Zhou Bo that the prime minister is someone I respect. Now you are leading the princes to the feudal country for me, and you are doing the same now. Geng Chun accepted the order and left.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
至邺，赐谷万斛。
到国，吊死问病，民爱敬之。
八年，东郡、济阴盗贼群起，遣大司空李通、横野大将军王常击之。
帝以纯威信著于卫地，遣使拜太中大夫，使与大兵会东郡。
东郡闻纯入界，盗贼九千余人皆诣纯降，大兵不战而还。
玺书复以为东郡太守，吏民悦服。
十三年，卒官，谥曰成侯。
子阜嗣。
植后为辅威将军，封威邑侯。
宿至代郡太守，封遂乡侯。
为赤眉将军，封著武侯，从邓禹西征，战死云阳。
凡宗族封列侯者四人，关内侯者三人，为二千石者九人。
translation: 
When he arrived at Ye, he was given ten thousand hu of grain.
When he arrived in Fengguo, Geng Chun expressed condolences to the deceased and condolences to the sick. The people respected and loved him very much.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, bandits arose in Dongjun and Jiyin. The emperor sent Grand Sikong Li Tong and Hengye General Wang Chang to attack them.
The emperor thought that Geng Chun had high prestige in the Wei area, so he sent an envoy to worship Geng Chun as Taizhong doctor and asked him to meet with the army in Dongjun.
When Dongjun heard that Geng Chun had arrived, more than 9,000 thieves surrendered to Geng Chun, and the army returned without a fight.
The seal again appointed Geng Chun as the governor of Dongjun, and the officials and the people were convinced.
In the 13th year of Jianwu's reign, he died in the official position and was given the posthumous title of Marquis Cheng.
Zi Geng Fu succeeded to the throne.
Geng Zhi later became General Weiwei and was granted the title of Marquis of Wuyi.
Geng Su was appointed as the prefect of Daijun and was granted the title of Marquis of Suixiang.
Geng Jinjin was the Red Eyebrow General and was granted the title of Marquis of Wu. He followed Deng Yu in the western expedition and died in Yunyang.
There are four people in the clan who have been awarded the title of Liehou, three people have been granted the title of Guanneihou, and a total of nine people have been awarded the title of Two Thousand Stones.


