Chunk 0: 
original: 
《易》曰： 天垂象，见吉凶，圣人象之；河出图，雒出书，圣人则之。
刘歆以为虙羲氏继天而王，受《河图》，则而画之，八卦是也；禹治洪水，赐《雒书》，法而陈之，《洪范》是也。
圣人行其道而宝其真。
降及于殷，箕子在父师位而典之。
周既克殷，以箕子归，武王亲虚己而问焉。
故经曰： 惟十有三祀，王访于箕子，王乃言曰： 乌呼，箕子！
惟天阴骘下民，相协厥居，我不知其彝伦逌叙 。箕子乃言曰： 我闻在昔，鲧陻洪水，汩陈其五行，帝乃震怒，弗畀《洪范》九畴，彝伦逌攸。
鲧则殛死，禹乃嗣兴，天乃锡禹《洪范》九畴，彝伦攸叙。  此武王问《雒书》于箕子，箕子对禹得《雒书》之意也。
translation: 
"Yi" says: When heaven shows signs, good or bad, the sages observe them; when pictures appear in the Yellow River, and books appear in the Luoshui River, the sages imitate them.
Liu Xin believed that Fu Xi inherited the destiny and became king, and was awarded the "River Map". He imitated it and drew it, which became the Bagua; Dayu controlled the flood and was given the "Luo Shu". He imitated it and stated it, which became the "Hong Fan".
Sages follow their thoughts and use their thoughts as scriptures.
In the Yin Dynasty, Ji Gonggong was the father and teacher, and they were the criteria.
After the Zhou Dynasty defeated the Yin Dynasty, Jizi surrendered, and King Wu humbly asked him for advice.
So the scripture says: In the thirteenth year, King Wu visited Jizi, and King Wu said: Ah, Jizi!
God silently stabilizes the people of the world and helps them live in peace. I don't know the normal way of heaven, earth and people and their order. Jizi said: I heard that in the past, Gun blocked the flood and used the Five Elements indiscriminately.
After Gun was executed, Dayu inherited the mission. God gave Dayu nine chapters of "Hongfan", and the common sense of heaven, earth and people was in order. , The result is that King Wu asked Jizi for advice on "Luoshu", and Jizi answered him correctly, which means that Dayu got the meaning of "Luoshu".


Chunk 1: 
original: 
初一曰五行；次二曰羞用五事；次三曰农用八政；次四曰旪用五纪；次五曰建用皇极；次六曰艾用三德，次七曰明用稽疑；次八曰念用庶征；次九曰乡用五福，畏用六极。
凡此六十五字，皆《雒书》本文，所谓天乃锡禹大法九章常事所次者也。
以为《河图》、《洛书》相为经纬，八卦、九章相为表里。
昔殷道弛，文王演《周易》；周道敝，孔子述《春秋》。
则《乾》、《坤》之阴阳，效《洪范》之咎征，天人之道粲然著矣。
汉兴，承秦灭学之后，景、武之世，董仲舒治《公羊春秋》，始推阴阳，为儒者宗。
宣、元之后，刘向治《穀梁春秋》，数其祸福，传以《洪范》，与促舒错。
至向子歆治《左氏传》，其《春秋》意亦已乖矣；言《五行传》，又颇不同。
是以促舒，别向、歆，传载眭孟、夏侯胜、京房、谷永、李寻之徒，所陈行事，讫于王莽，举十二世，以傅《春秋》，著于篇。
经曰： 初一曰五行。
五行：一曰水，二曰火，三曰木，四曰金，五曰土。
translation: 
The first is called Five Elements; the second is called Shame and Five Things; the third is called Farming and Eight Policies; the fourth is called Ye Yong and Five Disciplines; the fifth is called Jian Yong and Huang Ji; the sixth is called Ai Yong and Three Virtues; the seventh is Ming Yong and Ji Ji; the eighth is Nian Yong and Shuzheng; the ninth is called Feast and Yong Five Blessings and fear and Yong Six Ji.
These sixty-five words in total are the text of "Luo Shu", which is the order of common things in the nine chapters of Dafa given to Dayu by God.
He believes that "He Tu" and "Luo Shu" are the latitude and longitude of each other, and the Bagua and Jiu Zhang are the expressions of each other.
In the past, when the morality of the Yin Dynasty declined, King Wen deduced the "Book of Changes"; after the moral decline of the Zhou Dynasty, Confucius wrote the "Spring and Autumn".
Taking the yin and yang of "Qian" and "Kun" as the rules, and following the signs of disasters in "Hongfan", the laws of heaven and man will be obvious.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty and the destruction of scholarship by the Qin Dynasty, during the two dynasties of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Dong Zhongshu studied "Gongyang Chunqiu" and began to explore the principles of yin and yang, which was highly praised by Confucianists.
After Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Yuan of the Han Dynasty, Liu Xiang studied "Gu Liang Chun Qiu" to predict people's misfortune and fortune, and attached the explanations in "Hong Fan", which were different from Dong Zhongshu's.
By the time Liu Xin, Liu Xiang's son, studied "Zuo Shi Zhuan", his interpretation of "Spring and Autumn" had already deviated from it; when they talked about "Five Elements Biography", they were very different.
So I quoted Dong Zhongshu's statement to distinguish the differences between Liu Xiang and Liu Xin's father and son, and attached the things related to the Five Elements stated by Sui Meng, Xia Housheng, Jingfang, Gu Yong, and Li Xun, up to the time when Wang Mang usurped Mo, recorded the twelve dynasties, and compared it with the Spring and Autumn Annals, and wrote this "Five Elements Chronicle".
The scripture says: The first is the five elements.
Five elements: first is water, second is fire, third is wood, fourth is gold, and fifth is earth.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
水曰润下，火曰炎上，木曰曲直，金曰从革，土曰稼穑。
传曰： 田猎不宿，饮食不享，出入不节，夺民农时，及有奸谋，则木不曲直。
说曰： 木，东方也。
于《易》，地上之木为《观》。
其于王事，威仪容貌亦可观者也。
故行步有佩玉之度，登车有和鸾之节，田狩有三驱之制，饮食有享献之礼，出入有名，使民以时，务在劝农桑，谋在安百姓：如此，则木得其性矣。
若乃田猎驰骋不反宫室，饮食沉湎不顾法度，妄兴繇役以夺民时，作为奸诈以伤民财，则木失其性矣。
盖工匠之为轮矢者多伤败，乃木为变怪，是为木不曲直。《春秋》成公十六年 正月，雨，木冰 。
translation: 
The natural nature of water is that it can moisten downwards, the natural nature of fire is that it can burn upward, the natural nature of wood is that it can be bent or straight, the natural nature of gold is that it can change its shape and be melted and smelted, and the natural nature of earth is that it can be cultivated and harvested.
It is said in the legend: Those who do not follow the prescribed time when hunting, do not enjoy the gifts when drinking and eating, go out to fight without restraint, occupy the time for farming, and have evil plots, will lose the ability to be straight or straight.
Explained: Wood represents the east.
According to the Book of Changes, the tree on the ground is called Guan Gua.
For the king's affairs, the majesty, appearance, voice and smile also need to pay attention to the effect of observation.
Therefore, when walking, there is the etiquette of wearing a jade pendant; when riding in a car, there is the etiquette of hanging a golden bell on the car; when going hunting, there is a system of only doing it three times a year; when eating and drinking, there is the etiquette of enjoying the offerings; and there must be a legitimate reason for the expedition. Let the common people serve at the right time. Committed to calling on the people to develop agricultural production and seek stability for the people. By doing the above, the wood will be able to preserve its nature.
If you go out hunting and gallop to your heart's content without returning to the palace, indulge in delicacies and ignore laws and regulations, ignore the people's strength and engage in corvee work and occupy people's time for farming, and change their tactics to extort and harm people's wealth, then the tree will lose its nature.
Therefore, craftsmen make wheels but they are not round, they make arrow shafts but they cannot be straightened, and the wood itself changes and appears strange. This is a sign that the wood has lost its ability to be bent or straight. "Spring and Autumn" records that in the first month of the sixteenth year of Duke Cheng of Lu, it rained and there was wood ice.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
刘歆以为上阳施不下通，下阴施不上达，故雨，而木为之冰，雰气寒，木不曲直也。
刘向以为冰者阴之盛而水滞者也，木者少阳，贵臣卿大夫之象也。
此人将有害，则阴气胁木，木先寒，故得雨而冰也。
是时，叔孙乔如出奔，公子偃诛死。
一曰，时晋执季孙行父，又执公，此执辱之异。
或曰，今之长老名木冰为 木介 。
介者，甲。
甲，兵象也。
是岁晋有陵之战，楚王伤目而败。
属常雨也。
传曰： 弃法律，逐功臣，杀太子，以妾以妻，则火不炎上。
说曰：火，南方，扬光辉为明者也。
其于王者，南面乡明而治。
《书》云： 知人则哲，能官人。
故尧、舜举群贤而命之朝，远四佞而放诸野。
孔子曰： 浸润之谮、肤受之诉不行焉，可谓明矣。
translation: 
Liu Xin believed that this was because the Yang Qi from above could not pass down, and the Yin Qi from below could not reach up, so it rained, but the trees turned into ice and snow. This was because the cold fog prevented the trees from being able to bend or straighten.
Liu Xiang believes that ice is caused by excessive yin energy causing water to freeze. The wood belongs to Shaoyang and is a symbol of noble ministers and officials.
If these people are going to be in trouble, the Yin Qi will threaten the trees, and the trees will become cold first, so they will turn into ice when it rains.
At that time, his uncle and grandson Qiao Ru fled to Qi State, and Young Master Yan was executed.
Another theory is that the Jin State detained Ji Sun Xingfu and Lu Chenggong this year. This was a strange phenomenon caused by the humiliation of being captured.
Some people also say that some elderly people now call Mu Bing Mu Jie.
The introduction is Zhong Jia.
Ai Jia, this is a symbol of war.
In this year, Jin State had a battle at Geling, and the King of Chu was shot and wounded and failed.
It rains normally.
It is said in the legend: Abandoning the law, banishing the heroes, killing the prince, and taking concubines as wives, the fire will not be ignited.
Explain: Fire represents the south and is something that emits brilliance and brings light.
For a king, it means sitting north and facing south, facing the light to govern the world.
"The Book of Books" says: Understanding people brings wisdom, so you can be good at using people.
Therefore, Yao and Shun selected the wise men of the world and appointed them as officials in the court, abandoned the four evil men, and banished them to the grasslands.
Confucius said: If the accumulation of secret slanders or rumors does not allow it to succeed, then it can be said that it is upright.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
贤佞分别，官人有序，帅由旧章，敬重功勋，殊别適庶，如此则火得其性矣。
若乃信道不笃，或耀虚伪，谗夫昌，邪胜正，则火失其性矣。
自上而降，及滥炎妄起。灾宗庙，烧宫馆，虽兴师众，弗能救也，是为火不炎上。
《春秋》桓公十四年 八月壬申，御廪灾 。
董仲舒以为先是四国共伐鲁，大破之于龙门。
百姓伤者未廖，怨咎未复，而君臣俱惰，内怠政事，外海四邻，非能保守宗庙终其天年者也，故天灾御廪以戒之。
刘向以为御廪，夫人八妾所舂米之臧以奉宗庙者也，时夫人有淫行，挟逆心，天戒若曰，夫人不可以奉宗庙。
translation: 
We should clearly distinguish between virtuous gentlemen and treacherous villains, select officials in an orderly manner, follow existing regulations, respect meritorious officials, and differentiate between direct descendants. If we do this, fire will be able to preserve its nature.
If you do not wholeheartedly adhere to morality, or if you show off hypocrisy, allowing slanderous people to succeed, evil will suppress righteousness, and fire will lose its nature.
It will start from top to bottom, causing wild flames to spread everywhere, the ancestral temples will be damaged, and the palaces will be burned. Even if the troops are mobilized, they cannot be extinguished, which is a manifestation of the fire being unable to ignite.
"Spring and Autumn" records that in August of the 14th year of Duke Huan, a fire broke out in the palace granary in Renshen.
Dong Zhongshu believed that the four countries had previously conquered the Lu State together and defeated the Lu State in the battle of Longmen.
The injured people of Lu State had not recovered, and their resentment had not yet recovered. However, the monarchs and ministers became lazy, neglecting political affairs internally, and humiliating their neighbors externally. They were not the ones who could keep the ancestral temple and the grain to last for the period given by the Emperor of Heaven, so the Emperor of Heaven sent disasters to the palace granary to warn them.
Liu Xiang believed that the granary in the palace was where the king's wife and his eighth concubine pounded rice and collected it for the ancestral temple. At that time, the wife had a scandalous behavior and was hiding a rebellious heart. The emperor's warning seemed to say that the wife could no longer be worshiped in the ancestral temple.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
桓不寤，与夫人俱会齐，夫人谮桓公于齐侯，齐侯杀桓公。
刘歆以为御廪，公所亲耕籍田以奉粢盛者也，弃法度亡礼之应也。
严公二十年 夏，齐大灾 。刘向以为齐桓好色，听女口，以妾为妻，適庶数更，故致大灾。
桓公不寤，及死，適庶分争，九月不得葬。
《公羊传》曰，大灾，疫也。
董仲舒以为，鲁夫人淫于齐，齐桓姊妹不嫁者七人。
国君，民之父母；夫妇，生化之本。
本伤则末夭，故天灾所予也。
釐公二十年 五月乙巳，西宫灾 。
《穀梁》以为愍公宫也，以谥言之则若疏，故谓之西宫。
刘向以为釐立妾母为夫人以入宗庙，故天灾愍宫，若曰，去其卑而亲者，将害宗庙之正礼。
董仲舒以为釐娶于楚，而齐媵之，胁公使立以为夫人。
translation: 
Duke Huan of Lu did not wake up and went to the State of Qi with his wife to meet the Marquis of Qi. His wife spoke ill of Duke Huan to the Marquis of Qi, so the Marquis of Qi killed Duke Huan.
Liu Xin believed that the palace granary was the place where the monarch of Lu used his own income from cultivating his own land to donate millet, and the burning of the imperial palace was retribution for his abandonment of laws and disobedience to etiquette.
In the summer of the 20th year of Duke Yan, a great disaster occurred in the state of Qi. Liu Xiang believed that Duke Huan of Qi was lustful, listened to women, treated his concubines as his legitimate wives, and changed his concubines many times, thus causing great disasters.
Duke Huan of Qi did not wake up. When he died, the prince and several other sons came to compete for the throne. Yu and Yu were not buried for nine months.
"The Legend of Gongyang" says that the great disaster was an epidemic.
Dong Zhongshu believed that Duke Huan of Lu’s wife came to Qi and had an affair with the Marquis of Qi, and seven of Duke Huan’s sisters of Qi were unmarried.
The king is the parents of the common people; the couple is the foundation of fertility and reproduction.
If you are injured, you will die prematurely, so this is the retribution of a natural disaster.
In the twentieth year of Duke Xi, on Yisi day of the fifth month, the West Palace suffered a disaster.
"Gu Liang Zhuan" says that this is the palace where Duke Min lives. The name Mi seems distant, so it is called the West Palace.
Liu Xiang believes that Duke Xi of Lu pursued his biological mother as his concubine and brought her to the ancestral temple to offer sacrifices. Therefore, heaven sent disasters to the palace where Duke Min was formerly located. It seemed that removing this lowly person would affect the normal rituals of sacrifices in the ancestral temple.
Dong Zhongshu believed that Duke Xi of Lu hired a woman from Chu as his wife and a woman from Qi as his concubine, and Qi forced Duke Xi of Lu to marry a Qi woman as his wife.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
西宫者，小寝，夫人之居也。
若曰，妾何为此宫！
诛去之意也。
以天灾之，故大之曰西宫也。
《左氏》以为西宫者，公宫也，言西，知有东。
东宫，太子所居。
言宫，举区皆灾也。
宣公十六年 夏，成周宣榭火 。
榭者，所以臧乐器，宣其名也。
董仲舒、刘向以为十五年王札子杀召伯、毛伯，天子不能诛。
天戒若曰，不能行政令，何以礼乐为而臧之？
《左氏经》曰： 成周宣榭火，人火也。
人火曰火，天火曰灾。
榭者，讲武之坐星。
成公三年 二月甲子，新宫灾 。
《穀梁》以为宣宫，不言谥，恭也。
translation: 
The West Palace is the smaller bedroom where the lady lives.
It seems to be saying, how can I live in this palace?
This means punishing and driving away.
Because heaven brought disaster to this palace, its name was exaggeratedly called West Palace.
"Zuo Shi Zhuan" believes that the West Palace is the residence of the king. If it is said to be the West Palace, then we know that there must be an East Palace.
The Cambodian Palace is where the prince lives.
If we just talk about the palace without referring to it in particular, then everyone is in trouble.
In the summer of the 16th year of Xuangong's reign, Xuanxie in Luoyang was on fire.
Xie is a place used to store musical instruments, and Xuan is the name of Xie.
Dong Zhongshu and Liu Xiang believed that in the fifteenth year of Duke Xuangong of Lu, Wang Zhazi killed Zhao Bo and Mao Bo, the two officials of Zhou Dynasty. The emperor of Zhou failed to kill Wang Zhazi, which caused the fire.
The warning issued by the Emperor of Heaven seems to be that if political orders cannot be implemented, why should such ceremonial instruments be stored?
"Zuo Shi Zhuan" says: The Xuanxie fire in Luoyang during the Zhou Dynasty was caused by humans.
Anything that catches fire and is burned by humans is called fire, and fire that falls from the sky is called disaster.
This kind of building is a sitting room for martial arts training.
In the second month of the third year of Chenggong's reign, a fire broke out in the newly completed palace.
"Gu Liang Zhuan" believes that this new palace was the residence of Lu Xuan Gong. The reason why it was not called Xuan Gong according to the nickname was out of respect for Xuan Gong.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
刘向以为时鲁三桓子孙始执国政，宣公欲诛之，恐不能，使大夫公孙归父如晋谋。
未反，宣公死。
三家谮归父于成公。
成公父丧未葬，听谗而逐其父之臣，使奔齐，故天灾宣宫，明不用父命之象也。
一曰，三家亲而亡礼，犹宣公杀子赤而立。
亡礼而亲，天灾宣庙，欲示去三家也。
董仲舒以为成居丧亡哀戚心，数兴兵战伐，故天灾其父庙，示失子道，不能奉宗庙也。
一曰，宣杀君而立，不当列于群祖也。
襄公九年 春，宋灾 。
刘向以为先是宋公听谗，逐其大夫华弱，出奔鲁。
《左氏传》曰，宋灾，乐喜为司城，先使火所未至彻小屋，涂大屋，陈畚輂，具绠缶，备水器，畜水潦，积土涂，缮守备，表火道，储正徒。郊保之民，使奔火所。
又饬众官，各慎其职。
晋侯闻之，问士弱曰： 宋灾，于是乎知有天道，何故？
translation: 
Liu Xiang believes that at that time, the descendants of Sanhuan of Lu State began to control the country's political power. Lu Xuangong wanted to get rid of them, but he was worried that he would not succeed, so he sent the official Gongsun Guifu to Jin State to seek help.
Before Gongsun returned to his father, Lu Xuangong died.
The three families of Sanhuan falsely accused Gongsun Gui's father to Duke Cheng of Lu.
Before his father's death and burial, Duke Cheng of Lu believed the slander and expelled his father's ministers, forcing him to flee to Qi. Therefore, the Emperor sent fire to burn down Xuangong's palace, symbolizing Chenggong's mistake of not obeying his father's orders.
One theory is that the three clans of Lu Xuangong were the closest clan members but did not follow the etiquette and justice. Just like when Lu Xuanggong killed his half-brother, the former prince Chi, and became the king, they did not follow the etiquette and justice but were relatives.
The Emperor of Heaven sent disaster and burned the temple of Xuangong, which meant that these three families should be deposed.
Dong Zhongshu believed that Duke Cheng of Lu was not in a mournful mood during the period of mourning for his father, but instead raised troops to fight many times. Therefore, the Emperor of Heaven sent a disaster and burned his father's temple, revealing that he had failed to be a son and failed to respect the ancestral temple.
Another theory is that this fire is telling people that Lu Xuangong killed the king and became independent, and should not occupy the position of the ancestors of Lu.
In the spring of the ninth year of Duke Xiang, a fire broke out in the Song Dynasty.
Liu Xiang believed that this was caused by the fact that the Duke of Song had listened to the slander and exiled the official Hua Rui, causing him to defect to the state of Lu.
"Zuo Shi Zhuan" says: There was a fire in the Song Dynasty. At that time, Lexi was the Sikong of the Song Dynasty. He sent people to make various preparations to put out the fire before it started: demolishing small houses, coating large houses that were inconvenient to demolish with mud to prevent fire, and arranging tools such as buckets and buckets to hold earth, and preparing them for drawing water. Prepare ropes and earthen jars, prepare large water jars and other containers, store water in ponds, pile up sand and soil, repair defensive equipment, set up signs indicating the direction of fire, mobilize standing servants, and farmers in suburban villages and towns also order them to rush to the fire scene.
He also ordered all officials to perform their respective duties carefully.
After the Marquis of Jin heard about it, he asked his official Shi Ruo: "There was a fire in the Song Dynasty. From this incident, we learned about the way of heaven. What's going on?"


Chunk 8: 
original: 
对曰： 古之火正，或食于心，或食于咮，以出入火。是故咮为鹑火，心为大火。
陶唐氏之火正阏伯，居商丘，祀大火，而火纪时焉。
相土因之，故商主大火。
商人阅其祸败之衅必始于火，是以知有天道。
公曰： 可必乎？
对曰： 在道。
国乱亡象，不可知也。
说曰：古之火正，谓火官也，掌祭火星，行火政。
季春昏，心星出东方，而咮、七星、鸟首正在南方，则用火；季秋，星入，则止火，以顺天时，救民疾。
translation: 
Shi Ruo replied: In ancient times, some of the fire-righting officials were sacrificed to the Heart Star, and some were sacrificed to the Wei Star, for the purpose of using fire and forbidding the use of fire. This is because the taste star is Quail Mars and the heart star is Great Mars.
Tao Tang's fire was Guan Bo during Yao's time. He lived in Shangqiu, worshiped the big Mars, and used the big Mars as a mark to calculate the seasons.
Later, Xiangtu followed this practice, so it is said that the Shang Dynasty used Mars as the main star for sacrifices.
The people of the Shang Dynasty observed that clues or signs of disasters or defeats that occurred to them were first shown in the changes of the big Mars. Therefore, they know that there is a way of heaven.
The Marquis of Jin said: Is there necessarily a manifestation of the way of heaven?
The answer is: This still depends on humanity.
If the country is in turmoil, the Emperor of Heaven will no longer display celestial phenomena and will not be able to see them.
Explained: In ancient times, Huozheng was called the Fire Palace, which was in charge of sacrificing sacrifices to Mars and executing government orders on the use of fire to prevent fire.
In the evening of late spring, when the Heart Star appears in the east, while the Wei, Seven Stars, Bird's Head and other stars are in the south, fire can be used to create them; in late autumn, Mars disappears, so do not use fire at this time. Only in this way can we adapt to the weather and relieve the suffering of the people.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
帝喾则有祝融，尧时有阏伯，民赖其德，死则以为火祖，配祭火星，故曰 或食于心，或食于咮也。
相土，商祖契之曾孙，代阏伯后主火星。
宋，其后也，世司其占，故先知火灾。
贤君见变，能修道以除凶；乱君亡象，天不谴告，故不可必也。
三十年 五月甲午，宋灾 。
董仲舒以为伯姬如宋五年，宋恭公卒，伯姬幽居守节三十余年，又忧伤国家之患祸，积阴生阳，故火生灾也。
刘向以为先是宋公听谗而杀大子座，应火不炎上之罚也。
《左氏传》昭公六年 六月丙戌，郑灾 。
是春三月，郑人铸刑书。
translation: 
The fire officer in the emperor's time was Zhu Rong, and in Yao's time the fire officer was Ban Bo. The people of Li relied on their kindness, so they were revered as fire ancestors after their death, and they were worthy of offering sacrifices to Mars. Therefore, some were worthy of offering sacrifices to the heart star, and some were worthy of offering sacrifices to the Wei star.
Xiangtu was the great-grandson of Qi, the ancestor of the merchants. He replaced Banbo and later presided over the sacrifice of Mars.
The Song Dynasty is a descendant of the Shang Dynasty. For generations, they have been responsible for using Mars for divination, so they can predict the occurrence of fires.
A virtuous monarch sees the changes in the celestial phenomena and can govern the country according to the Tao to prevent disasters; a confused monarch cannot see the celestial phenomena, and the Emperor of Heaven will not warn him in advance, so it is not always possible to predict the way of Heaven.
In the 30th year of May, on Jiawu Day, a fire broke out in the Song Dynasty.
Dong Zhongshu believes that after five years of marriage to the Song Dynasty, Duke Gong of Song Dynasty passed away. Boji lived in seclusion in the palace for more than thirty years, and was still sad about the country's disasters. In this way, yin accumulated and yang was generated, so the fire broke out.
Liu Xiang believed that this was because Song Gong believed the slander and killed Prince Cuo, thus fulfilling the punishment of Huo Buyan.
"Zuo Shi Zhuan" records that in the sixth month of the sixth year of Zhaogong, on Bingxu, a fire broke out in the state of Zheng.
In the spring and March of the first year of Qian's reign, the people of Zheng carved the terms of the criminal law on the tripod.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
士文伯曰： 火见，郑其火乎？
火未出而作火以铸刑器，臧争辟焉。火而象之，不火何为？
说曰：火星出于周五月，而郑以三月作火铸鼎，刻刑辟书，以为民约，是为刑器争辟，故火星出，与五行之火争明为灾，其象然也，又弃法律之占也。
不书于经，时不告鲁也。
九年 夏四月，陈火 。
董仲舒以为陈夏征舒杀君，楚严王托欲为陈讨贼，陈国辟门而待之，至因灭陈。
陈臣子尤毒恨甚，极阴生阳，故致火灾。
刘向以为先是陈侯弟招杀陈太子偃师，皆外事，不因其宫馆者，略之也。
八年十月壬午，楚师灭陈，《春秋》不与蛮夷灭中国，故复书陈火也。
《左氏经》曰 陈灾 。
《传》曰 郑裨灶曰： 五年，陈将复封，封五十二年而遂亡。
子产问其故，对曰： 陈，水属也。
translation: 
Shi Wenbo, a doctor of Jin State, said: If Mars appears in the sky, is there going to be a fire in Zheng State?
Before Mars appeared, they used fire to smelt it and cast it into instruments containing laws. The laws were set up and the laws were disputed. Now that the celestial phenomenon of Mars appears, what else does it mean if it does not mean fire?
Explain: Mars appeared in the fifth month of the Zhou Dynasty, and the Zheng State set fire to smelt and cast the cauldron in March, and engraved legal provisions on it as a rule for the people to abide by, creating a weapon for punishment and a method of hiding strife. So Mars appeared to compete with the fire of the five elements to see which one was brighter, and a fire broke out. This is what this celestial phenomenon means. They gave up Ding's divination of the law.
This incident was not recorded in the Spring and Autumn Classics because Zheng Guo did not notify Lu Guo at that time.
In April of the ninth year in the summer, a fire broke out in Chen State.
Dong Zhongshu believed that Xia Zhengshu of the Chen State killed his king. King Yan of Chu used this incident to attack the bandits for the Chen State. The Chen State opened its gates to wait for the arrival of the Chu Army. After the Chu Army arrived, the Chen State was destroyed.
Chen Guo's ministers were too vicious and ruthless, so vicious that they generated yang, causing fires.
Liu Xiang believed that before that, Chen Hou's younger brother Gongzi recruited and killed Chen's crown prince Yanshi. These were all matters for suburban sacrifices and did not cause a fire in the palace, so they were omitted.
On Renwu in the tenth month of the eighth year of Zhao Gong, the Chu State sent troops to subdue the Chen State. The Spring and Autumn Classic does not praise the barbarian Chu State for destroying the Chen State in the Central Plains. Therefore, although the Chen State has been destroyed, it is still recorded as a fire in the Su State.
The "Spring and Autumn Classic" quoted by Zuo recorded it as "Chen Pan".
"The Biography of the Zuo Family" says: Bi Zao, the official of the State of Zheng, said: Five years later, the State of Chen will be established as a country again. It will be established as a country for fifty-two years and then it will perish.
The official Zichan asked the reason for this and replied: The state of Chen is a country of water.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
火，水妃也，而楚所相也。
今火出而火陈，逐楚而建陈也。
妃以五成，故曰五年。
岁五及鹑火，而后陈卒亡，楚克有之，天之道也。
说曰：颛顼以水王，陈其族也。
今兹岁在星纪，后五年在大梁。
大梁，昴也。
金为水宗，得其宗而昌，故曰 五年陈将复封 。
楚之先为火正，故曰 楚所相也 。
天以一生水，地以二生火，天以三生木，地以四生金，天以五生土。
五位皆以五而合，而阴阳易位，故曰 妃以五成 。
然则水之大数六，火七，木八，金九，土十。
故水以天一为火二牡，木以天三为土十牡，土以天五为水六牡，火以天上为金四牡，金以天九为木八牡。
阳奇为牡，阴耦为妃。
故曰 水，火之牡也；火，水妃也 。
translation: 
Fire is the concubine of water, and it is the state of Chu.
Now the big spark appears and a fire breaks out in the Chen State, which means that the Chu State will be expelled and the Chen State will be established.
The coordination of Yin and Yang and the five elements are all completed with the number five, so it is said to be five years later.
The star of Sui arrived at Quail Mars in five years, and after that, the state of Chen finally perished, and the state of Chu defeated and annexed the state of Chen. This was also decreed by heaven.
Explain: Zhuanxu became king because he was a water official, and Chen Guo was his descendant.
Now the star is in Xing Ji, and five years later it will be in Daliang.
Daliang is the Pleiades star, in the constellation Taurus.
Gold is the origin of water, and water prospers because of its origin. Therefore, it is said: In five years, the state of Chen will be restored.
Zhu Rong, the ancestor of the Chu State, was a fire lord, so Mars was said to be the ruler of the Chu State.
The sky uses one source to generate water, the earth uses two to generate fire, the sky uses three to generate wood, the earth uses four to generate gold, and the sky uses five to generate earth.
The five positions of water, fire, wood, metal, and earth are all combined with five, and the positions of yin and yang are exchanged, so the coordination is completed with the number five.
However, the high number of water is six, the high number of fire is seven, the high number of wood is eight, the high number of metal is nine, and the high number of earth is ten.
So water with sky one is the male of fire two, wood with sky three is the male of earth ten, earth with sky five is the male of water six, fire with sky seven is the male of gold four, gold with sky nine is the male of wood eight.
The odd number of yang is called male, and the even number of yin is called concubine.
Therefore, water is the male of fire; fire is the concubine of water.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
于《易》， 坎 为水，为中男， 离 为火，为中女，盖取诸此也。
自大梁四岁而及鹑火，四周四十八岁，凡五及鹑火，五十二年而陈卒亡。
火盛水衰，故曰 天之道也 。
哀公十七年七月己卯，楚灭陈。
昭十八年 五月壬午，宋、卫、陈、郑灾 。
董仲舒以为象王室将乱，天下莫救，故灾四国，言亡四方也。
又宋、卫、陈、郑之君皆荒淫于乐，不恤国政，与周室同行。
阳失节则火灾出，是以同日灾也。
刘向以为，宋、陈，王者之后；卫、郑，周同姓也。
时周景王老，刘子、单子事王子猛，尹氏、召伯、毛伯事王子晁。
子晁，楚之出也。
及宋、卫、陈、郑亦皆外附于楚，亡尊周室之心。
后三年，景王崩，王室乱，故天灾四国。
translation: 
In the "Book of Changes", "Kan Wei" is water, which is the second son, and "Li Wei" is fire, which is the second daughter. This may be why it comes from this.
It took four years from Daliang to reach Quail Mars, and then went through four cycles for a total of forty-eight years. Including the first one, it went to Quail Mars five times, four plus forty-eight years, a total of fifty-two years, and then the Chen Kingdom finally perished.
Fire is strong and water is weak, so it is said to be determined by the way of heaven.
Later, on the ninth day of the seventh month in the seventeenth year of Duke Ai of Lu, Chu State destroyed Chen State.
In the 18th year of Zhaogong's reign, on Renwu day in the fifth month, a fire broke out in the four kingdoms of Song, Wei, Chen and Zheng.
Dong Zhongshu believed that this was a sign that the Zhou royal family would be in turmoil, and no one in the world would save it, so the fire spread to the four countries, which is an allegory for the faults of the four countries.
Furthermore, the four kings of Song, Wei, Chen, and Zheng were all indulgent in pleasure, ignored the political affairs of the country, and went with the Zhou royal family.
When Yang Qi loses control, fire breaks out, so disasters occur on the same day.
Liu Xiang believes that the Song and Chen kingdoms are descendants of the ancient kingdoms. Wei and Zheng have the same surname in the Zhou Dynasty.
At that time, King Jing of Zhou was old. The officials Liu Zi and Shan Zi supported King Zhou's crown prince Meng, while the three officials Yin, Zhao Bo and Mao Bo supported King Zhou's other son Ni.
Ni is the nephew of the King of Chu.
As for the four kingdoms of Song, Wei, Chen, and Zheng, they all relied on Chu and had no intention of respecting the Emperor of Zhou.
Three years later, King Jing of Zhou died, and the Zhou royal family was in chaos, so natural disasters struck the four kingdoms.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
天戒若曰，不救周，反从楚，废世子，立不正，以害王室，明同罪也。
定公二年 五月，雉门及两观灾 。
董仲舒、刘向以为此皆奢僭过度者也。
先是，季氏逐昭公，昭公死于外。
定公即位，既不能诛季氏，又用其邪说，淫于女乐，而退孔子。
天戒若曰，去高显而奢僭者。
一曰，门阙，号令所由出也，今舍大圣而纵有罪，亡以出号令矣。
京房《易传》曰： 君不思道，厥妖火烧宫 。
哀公三年 五月辛卯，桓、釐宫灾。
董仲舒、刘向以为此二宫不当立，违礼者也。
哀公又以季氏之故不用孔子。
孔子在陈闻鲁灾，曰： 其桓、之宫乎！
以为桓，季氏之所出，釐，使季氏世卿者也。
translation: 
The warning from the Emperor of Heaven seemed to say that instead of rescuing the Zhou royal family, they followed the barbarian Chu state to depose the prince and establish a concubine as king of Zhou, thus harming the royal family. This was clearly a crime.
In May of the second year of Dinggong, the south gate and two towers of the palace city were hit by fire.
Both Dong Zhongshu and Liu Xiang believed that this was retribution for those who were excessively extravagant and arrogant.
Before that, the Ji family expelled Lu Zhaogong, and Lu Zhaogong died in another place.
When Lu Dinggong came to the throne, he no longer punished the Ji family. Instead, he believed in the Ji family's evil ideas and indulged in female music, which caused Confucius to retreat and leave.
The emperor's condemnation seemed to say, get rid of these noble and distinguished people who are extravagant and arrogant.
One theory is that the gate is a place where orders are issued. Now those who have abandoned the great saints and indulged in sin have no orders to issue.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" said: If the king does not aspire to the Tao, the evil that arises from this is the burning of the ancestral temple.
In the fifth month of the third year of Duke Ai, on Xinmao day, the two ancestral temples dedicated to Duke Huan and Duke Xi of Lu were burned down.
Both Dong Zhongshu and Liu Xiang believed that these two temples should not be built because they violated the etiquette system.
At that time, Duke Ai of Lu did not appoint Yu Zi because of his trust in the Ji family.
When Confucius heard the news about the fire in Lulong in the state of Chen, he said: It was probably the two ancestral temples of Duke Huan and Duke Xi that were burned down!
Because Lu Huan Gong was the direct ancestor of the Ji family, Lu Xi Gong made the Ji family the king who would inherit the Qing Dynasty from generation to generation.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
四年 六月辛丑，毫社灾 。
董仲舒、刘向以为亡国之社，所以为戒也。
天戒若曰，国将危亡，不用戒矣。
《春秋》火灾，屡于定、哀之间，不用圣人而纵骄臣，将以亡国，不明甚也。
一曰，天生孔子，非为定、哀也，盖失礼不明，火灾应之，自然象也。
高后元年五月丙申，赵丛台灾。
刘向以为，是时吕氏女为赵王后，嫉妒，将为谗口以害赵王。
王不寤焉，卒见幽杀。
惠帝四年十月乙亥，未央宫凌室灾；丙子，织室灾。
刘向以为元年吕太后杀赵王如意，残戮其母戚夫人。
translation: 
Xin Chou said in June of the fourth year that a fire broke out in Boshe.
Dong Zhongshu and Liu Xiang believed that Boshe was the shrine of the fallen country, that is, Xingshi. This shrine was originally built so that the current kings would always take the fall of Yin as a lesson and govern the country cautiously.
The warning of the Emperor of Heaven to bring disaster seems to say that the country is in danger and will perish, and there is no need to use this temple as a reference.
The fires recorded in the "Spring and Autumn Classic" happened many times between the dynasties of Lu Dinggong and Lu Aigong. This was because the king at that time did not appoint saints and indulged arrogant ministers, which would lead to the destruction of the country. They were too confused.
There is a saying that Confucius, the Emperor of Heaven, was not born to save Lu Dinggong and Lu Ai Gong. Generally speaking, if one does not follow the rules of etiquette and govern the country without clarity, there will be retribution of fire. This is a natural sign of God's will.
On Bingshen day in May of the first year of Gaohou, a fire broke out in Congtai of Tangguo.
Liu Xiang believed that Lu's daughter became the queen of King Zhao at that time. Because she was jealous of King Zhao's love for other princesses, she wanted to report slander to the queen to frame King Zhao.
King Tang did not wake up, and was finally imprisoned and killed by the empress.
On Yihai, the tenth month of the fourth year of Emperor Hui's reign, a fire broke out in the Ice-Tibetan Room in Weiyang Palace. On Bingzi, a fire also broke out in the weaving room.
Liu Xiang believed that in the first year of Emperor Hui's reign, Empress Dowager Lu killed Zhao King Liu Ruyi and brutally killed King Zhao's mother, relatives and wife.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
是岁十月壬寅，太后立帝姊鲁元公主女为皇后。
其乙亥，凌室灾。明日，织室灾。
凌室所以供养饮食，织室所以奉宗庙衣服，与《春秋》御廪同义。
天戒若曰，皇后亡奉宗庙之德，将绝祭祀。
其后，皇后亡子，后宫美人有男，太后使皇后名之，而杀其母。
惠帝崩，嗣子立，有怨言，太后废之，更立吕氏子弘为少帝。
赖大臣共诛诸吕而立文帝，惠后幽废。
文帝七年六月癸酉，未央宫东阙罘思灾。
刘向以为，东阙所以朝诸侯之门也，罘思在其外，诸侯之象也。
汉兴，大封诸侯王，连城数十。
文帝即位，贾谊等以为违古制度，必将叛逆。
先是，济北、淮南王皆谋反，其后吴、楚七国举兵而诛。
translation: 
On Renyin day in October of the fourth year of that year, the Queen Mother appointed the daughter of Princess Lu Yuan, the sister of Emperor Hui, as the queen.
On Yihai day of that month, a fire broke out in Zangbing's house, and the next day, there was another fire in the weaving room.
The ice storage room is a place for food and drink, and the weaving room is a place for making clothes for the ancestral temple. These two rooms have the same nature as the palace granary mentioned in the Spring and Autumn Classic.
The emperor's condemnation seemed to mean that the queen would lose the sacrifices of future generations if she lost her due character in serving the ancestral temple.
After that, the queen had no son, and the beauty in the harem gave birth to a boy. The queen mother asked the queen to claim that the boy was her own son, and then killed the boy's mother.
Emperor Hui died, and the boy who was designated as his heir came to the throne. Knowing that his mother was murdered, he expressed resentment, so the Queen Mother deposed him and made Liu Hong, who was actually the son of the Lu family, the young emperor.
After the death of Empress Dowager Lu, she relied on the power of the ministers and ministers to annihilate the princes of the Lu family and established Emperor Xiaowen. The Hui Emperor appointed by Empress Dowager Lu was eventually imprisoned and deposed.
On the day of Guiyou in the sixth month of the seventh year of Emperor Xiaowen of the Han Dynasty, a fire broke out in the lattice screen wall called Yusi in the Shuque Tower of Weiyang Palace.
Liu Xiang believes that the East Palace is the gate used to meet the princes, and Yusi is outside the door, which is a symbol of the princes.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, the princes and kings were granted great titles, and each king had dozens of cities connected to it.
After Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, Maiyi and others believed that this situation violated the ancient feudal system and would definitely lead to rebellion.
Before this, the two kings of Jibei and Huainan had conspired to rebel. After that, Wu, Chu and other seven kingdoms raised their troops and were finally destroyed.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
景帝中五年八月己酉，未央宫东阙灾。
先是，栗太子废为临江王，以罪征诣中尉，自杀。
丞相条侯周亚夫以不合旨称疾免，后二年下狱死。
武帝建元六年六月丁酉，辽东高庙灾。
四月壬子，高园便殿火。
董仲舒对曰： 《春秋》之道举往以明来，是故天下有物，视《春秋》所举与同比者，精微眇以存其意，通伦类以贯其理，天地之变，国家之事，粲然皆见，亡所疑矣。
按《春秋》鲁定公、哀公时，季氏之恶已孰，而孔子之圣方盛。
夫以盛圣而易孰恶，季孙虽重，鲁君虽轻，其势可成也。
故字公二年五月两观灾。
两观，僭礼之物。天灾之者，若曰，僭礼之臣可以去。
translation: 
On Jiyou day in August of the fifth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, a fire broke out in the Shuque Tower of Weiyang Palace.
Prior to this, Prince Li was deposed and demoted to King Linjiang. He was also summoned to the lieutenant for trial for committing a crime and committed suicide.
The Prime Minister Tiaohou Zhou Yafu did not agree with the emperor's will and was dismissed from his official position on the grounds of illness. He was imprisoned and died two years later.
In June of the sixth year of the reign of Emperor Xiaowu of the Han Dynasty, a fire broke out in the Gaomiao Temple in Liaodong.
In the fourth month of Renzi, the banquet hall in Gaoyuan caught fire.
Dong Zhongshu replied to Emperor Wu: The significance of the Spring and Autumn Classic is to use examples from the past to clarify things in the future. Therefore, for all things in the world, we should compare them with similar examples cited in the "Spring and Autumn Classic", carefully observe the meaning of the details, and understand the principles by analogy. In this way, the changes in the world and the various affairs of the country can be seen at a glance and all understood.
Examining the "Spring and Autumn Classic", during the reigns of Lu Dinggong and Lu Aigong, the evil forces of the Ji family had already formed, while the light of Confucius's holy virtues was in full bloom.
It was possible to use strong holy virtues to overcome and replace the evil forces formed. Although Ji Sun's power was strong and Lu Jun's was light at that time, it was possible from the situation point of view.
Therefore, in May of the second year of Dinggong, a fire broke out in the two towers.
The two towers were objects that violated the etiquette system. The Emperor of Heaven sent disasters and burned them, as if to say that officials who violated the etiquette system could be eliminated.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
已见罪征，而后告可去，此天意也。
定公不知省。
至哀公三年五月，桓宫、釐宫灾。
二者同事，所为一也，若曰燔贵而去不义云尔。
哀公未能见，故四年六月毫社灾。
两观、桓、釐庙、毫社，四者皆不当立，天皆燔其不当立者以示鲁，欲其去乱臣而用圣人也。
季氏亡道久矣，前是天不见灾者，鲁未有贤圣臣，虽欲去季孙，其力不能，昭公是也。
至定、哀乃见之，其时可也。
不时不见，天之道也。
今高庙不当居辽东，高园殿不当居陵旁，于礼亦不当立，与鲁所灾同。
其不当立久矣，至于陛下时天乃灾之者，殆其时可也。
translation: 
The evidence of guilt has appeared, and then it is told that it can be removed, which is God's will.
Lu Dinggong did not wake up.
In the fifth month of the third year of Duke Ai of Lu, Huan Palace and Xi Palace were destroyed by fire.
The two fires are of the same nature and have the same meaning, which seems to be to burn the dignitaries and get rid of the unjust people.
Duke Ai of Lu failed to notice, so Boshe suffered a fire in June of the fourth year.
The two towers, the two temples of Huan Gong and Xi Gong, and the Boshe were all four buildings that should not be built or preserved. During these fires, the Emperor of Heaven used to burn things that should not be erected to enlighten King Lu and ask him to get rid of the rebellious ministers and appoint saints.
The Ji family has been in chaos and unruly for a long time. The reason why the Emperor of Heaven did not bring disaster before this was because the state of Lu did not have a sage official. Although he wanted to get rid of Ji Sun, he was not strong enough to do it. This was the case with Duke Zhao of Lu.
Natural disasters did not occur until the time of Duke Ding and Duke Ai, because it could be done at this time.
Failure to appear before the appropriate time is just a manifestation of the way of heaven.
Today, a high temple should not be built in Liaodong, and a banquet hall in a high garden should not be built next to a mausoleum. According to the etiquette, it should not be built, just like those buildings destroyed by fires in the Spring and Autumn Period of Lu.
It has been a long time since the Liaodong Gaomiao and Gaoyuan Bendian temples should be built. By the time His Majesty was in power, it was probably the time for God to act in accordance with the will of Heaven.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
昔秦受亡周之敝，而亡以化之；汉受亡秦之敝，又亡以化之。
夫继二敝之后，承其下流，兼受其猥，难治甚矣。
又多兄弟亲戚骨肉之连，骄扬奢侈，恣睢者众，所谓重难之时者也。
陛下正当大敝之后，又遭重难之时，甚可忧也。
故天灾若语陛下： 当今之世，虽敝而重难，非以太平至公，不能治出。
视亲戚贵属在诸侯远正最甚者，忍而诛之，如吾燔辽东高庙乃可；视近臣在国中处旁仄及贵而不正者，忍而诛之，如吾燔高园殿乃可 云尔。
此天意也。罪在外者天灾外，罪在内者天灾内，燔甚罪当重，燔简罪当轻，承天意之道也。
translation: 
In the past, the Qin Dynasty endured the ruins of the declining Zhou Dynasty without digesting and eradicating them; the Han Dynasty endured the ruins of the declining Qin Dynasty without transforming them.
If we say that after the collapse of the Zhou and Qin dynasties, we have to bear their legacy influence and accept their long-standing evils and troubles, it will be too difficult to govern.
In addition, he sent so many brothers, relatives, and kings, who were closely related by flesh and blood. Among them, there were many who were arrogant, extravagant, and lawless. This was the so-called hard time to return.
Your Majesty, just after the great ruin of the world, you are faced with the arrogance and arrogance of the people in this dynasty, which is hard to come back. It is really worrying.
Therefore, the fire from the sky seems to be telling His Majesty: At this time, facing the ruin of the world and the various difficulties accumulated by this dynasty, we must use drastic measures and selfless courage to rectify it.
First, select the clan kings and relatives of the emperor who have the most improper and unruly behavior among the princes, and get rid of them without mercy, just like I burned the high temple in Liaodong. Then look at the close officials in the court who are high-ranking and evil, and kill them without mercy, just like I burned the public hall in Gaoyuan. That's it.
In this way, anyone who behaves improperly in other places, even something as sacred as a high temple, can be burned down as a disaster, not to mention those princes and kings! Those who behave improperly in the court, even dignitaries such as Gaoyuan Bendian, can be punished and burned, let alone ordinary ministers! Creation is the will of the Emperor of Heaven. If there are criminal princes outside, disasters will be brought on the outside; if there are criminal ministers inside. Bring disaster inside. If the sin is serious, the burning will be severe; if the sin is minor, the burning will be lighter.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
先是，淮南王安入朝，始与帝舅太尉武安侯田蚡有逆言。
其后胶西于王、赵敬肃王、常山宪王皆数犯法，或至夷灭人家，药杀二千石，而淮南、衡山王遂谋反。
胶东、江都王皆知其谋，阴治兵弩，欲以应之。
至元朔六年，乃发觉而伏辜。
时田分已死，不及诛。
上思仲舒前言，使仲舒弟子吕步舒持斧钺治淮南狱，以《春秋》谊颛断于外，不请。
既还奏事，上皆是之。
太初元年十一月乙酉，未央宫柏梁台灾。
先是，大风发其屋，夏侯始昌先言其灾日。
后有江充巫蛊卫太子事。
征和二年春，涿郡铁官铸铁，铁销，皆飞上去，此火为变使之然也。
其三月，涿郡太守刘屈氂为丞相。
translation: 
This is what it means to obey the will of the Emperor of Heaven. Before the two fires in the sixth year of Jianyuan, Liu An, the king of Huainan, entered the court and began to rebel against Emperor Mowu's uncle, the Taiwei Wu'anhou Tian Ju.
After the fire, King Yu of Jiaoxi, King Tsai Jingsu, and King Xian of Changshan all broke the law many times. Some even killed the whole family and poisoned local officials such as Erqian Shi. Then, the King of Huainan and the King of Hengshan conspired to create the fire.
Both King Micellar and King Jiangdu participated in this plan, secretly preparing crossbow weapons and preparing to raise troops to respond.
It was not until the sixth year of Yuanshuo that he was discovered and executed.
At this time, Tianwei was already dead and could no longer be executed.
Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty remembered Dong Zhongshu's previous words, so he sent Dong Zhongshu's student Lu Bushu to use severe punishment to investigate the Huainan King's rebellion case. According to the principles of "Spring and Autumn", he decided the case alone without consulting the imperial court.
Later, reports were reported to the court, and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty affirmed them all.
On Yiyou day in November of the first year of Taichu, a fire broke out in the Bailiang Terrace of Weiyang Palace.
Previously, strong winds damaged Nabo's house, and Xiahou Shichang predicted in advance the days when the disaster would occur.
After the disaster, Jiang Chong framed Prince Wei for a witchcraft case.
In the spring of the second year of Zhenghe, when the iron official of Zhuo County was casting iron, the iron melted and flew into the sky. This was caused by the mutation of fire.
In March of this year, Liu Quli, the governor of Zhuojun, became prime minister.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
后月，巫蛊事兴，帝女诸邑公主、阳石公主、丞相公孙贺、子太仆敬声、平阳侯曹宗等皆下狱死。
七月，使者江充掘蛊太子宫，太子与母皇后议，恐不能自明，乃杀充，举兵与丞相刘屈氂战，死者数万人，太子败走，至湖自杀。
明年，屈氂复坐祝诅要斩，妻枭首也。
成帝河平二年正月，沛那铁官铸铁，铁不下，隆隆如雷声，又如鼓音，工十三人惊走。
音止，还视地，地陷数尺，炉分为十，一炉中销铁散如流星，皆上去，与征和二年同象，其夏，帝舅五人封列侯，号五侯。
元舅王凤为大司马、大将军，秉政。
后二年，丞相王商与凤有隙，凤谮之，免官，自杀。
明年，京兆尹王章讼商忠直，言凤颛权，凤诬章以大逆罪，下狱死。妻子徙合浦。
后许皇后坐巫蛊废，而赵飞燕为皇后，妹为昭仪，贼害皇子，成帝遂亡嗣。
皇后、昭仪皆伏辜。
一曰，铁飞属金不从革。
昭帝元凤元年，燕城南门灾。
刘向以为时燕王使邪臣通于汉，为谗贼，谋逆乱。
南门者，通汉道也。
天戒若曰，邪臣往来，为奸谗于汉，绝亡之道也。
燕王不寤，卒伏其辜。
元凤四年五月丁丑，孝文庙正殿灾。
刘向认为，孝文，太宗之君，与成周宣榭火同义。
translation: 
A month later, the witchcraft case was launched. Emperor Mowu's daughters Princess Zhuyi and Princess Yangshi, Prime Minister Gongsun He, Gongsun He's son Gongsun Jingsheng, and Pingyang Marquis Cao Zong were all imprisoned and died.
In July, Jiang Chong, the special case-handling envoy appointed by Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, was looking for poison in the crown prince's womb. The prince discussed with his mother, Queen Wei, and feared that he would be framed if he could not prove his innocence, so he killed Jiang Chong and sent troops to fight against the prime minister Liu Quli. Tens of thousands of people died. Later, the prince failed and fled, and committed suicide after fleeing to Hu County.
The next year, Liu Quli was beheaded again for committing the crime of curse, and his wife was also beheaded.
In the first month of the second year of Heping reign of Emperor Mocheng, when the iron officer of Pei County was casting iron, the iron could not come down. The furnace made a rumbling sound like someone beating a drum, and all the thirteen casters were scared away.
After the sound stopped, the caster came back and looked at the ground. He found that the ground had sunk several feet and the furnace was divided into ten. The iron wrapped in one furnace melted and flew up like meteors, all flying up to the sky. It was the same scene as in the second year of Zhenghe. In the summer of this year, the five uncles of Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty were all granted the title of Marquis, known as the Five Marquises.
His uncle Wang Feng was in charge of the affairs of the state for General Sima.
Two years later, Prime Minister Wang Shang and Wang Feng had a conflict. Wang Feng falsely accused Wang Shang. Wang Shang was dismissed and later committed suicide.
The next year, Jingzhao Yin Wangzhang complained that Wang Shang was loyal, upright, and Wang Feng was authoritative and domineering. Wang Feng had Wang Zhang imprisoned and executed for treason, and his wife and children were exiled to Hepu.
Queen Laixu was deposed for the crime of witchcraft, so Zhao Feiyan became the queen, and her sister was named Zhaoyi. She killed the prince, and Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty had no heirs.
The two sisters, the queen and Zhaoyi, were executed.
One theory is that the iron flying to the sky should belong to gold. If it does not follow the leather, it will lose its meltability and castability.
In the first year of Emperor Zhao Yuanfeng's reign, a fire broke out at the south gate of Yancheng.
Liu Xiang believes that at that time, the King of Yan sent evil ministers and spies to collude with the court ministers, slander and plot to plot rebellion.
The south gate of Yancheng is the road leading to Mo Chang'an.
The warning issued by the Emperor of Heaven seems to be saying: Evil ministers come and go, slandering and provoking the imperial court, which is a dead end.
King Yan didn't wake up and finally committed the crime.
In the fifth month of the fourth year of Yuanfeng, Ding Chou said, a fire broke out in the main hall of Emperor Moxiaowen's temple.
Liu Xiang believes that Emperor Xiaowen was the second emperor of the Han Dynasty, the emperor of Taizong, so the fire had the same meaning as the fire at Xuanxie when King Cheng became king in the Western Zhou Dynasty.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
先是，皇后父车骑将军上官安、安父左将军桀谋为逆，大将军霍光诛之。
皇后以光外孙，年少不知，居位如故。
光欲后有子，因上待疾医言，禁内后宫皆不得进，唯皇后颛寝。
皇后年六岁而立，十三年而昭帝崩，遂绝继嗣。
光执朝政，犹周公之摄也。
是岁正月，上加元服，通《诗》、《尚书》，有明哲之性。
光亡周公之德，秉政九年，久于周公，上既已冠而不归政，将为国害。
故正月加元服，五月而灾见。
古之庙皆在城中，孝文庙始出居外，天戒若曰，去贵而不正者。
宣帝既立，光犹摄政，骄溢过制，至妻显杀许皇后，光闻而不讨，后遂诛灭。
translation: 
Prior to this, the queen's father, Chariot General Shangguan An, and Shangguan An's father, Zuo General Shangguan Jie, and their sons conspired to rebel, and General Huo Guang killed them.
Because the queen was Huo Guang's granddaughter and was too young to participate in this matter, she continued to be the queen as usual.
In order to allow the queen to have a son, Huo Guang reported to the imperial doctor the instructions: No concubines were allowed to enter the emperor's chamber, and the queen had to sleep with her in a special room.
The queen was appointed when she was only six years old. After being the queen for thirteen years, Emperor Zhao died. So the heirs were cut off.
Huo Guang was in charge of the government, just like the regent of Duke Zhou in the Western Zhou Dynasty.
In the first month of the fourth year of Yuanfeng's reign, Emperor Zhao crowned him. By this time the emperor was already proficient in the Book of Songs and the Book of Documents, and was intelligent by nature.
Huo Guang was not as benevolent as the Duke of Zhou. He was in power for nine years, but he lasted longer than the Duke of Zhou. Emperor Zhao had already been crowned and came of age but did not return to power. This would be harmful to the country.
Therefore, the emperor was crowned in the first month, and the fire broke out in the fifth month.
In ancient times, ancestral temples were all built in the city, and Emperor Xiaowen's temple was the first to be built outside the city. This time when the main hall of Emperor Wen's temple was burned down, the emperor's warning seemed to be to get rid of the noble and dishonest people.
After Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, Huo Guang still controlled the government and was arrogant and did not abide by the system. Later, his wife Xian killed Queen Xu, but Huo Guang found out and refused to seek justice. In the end, he was punished and exterminated.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
宣帝甘露元年四月丙申，中山太上皇庙灾。
甲辰，孝文庙灾。
元帝初元三年四月乙未，孝武园白鹤馆灾。
刘向以为，先是前将军萧望之、光禄大夫击堪辅政，为佞臣石显、许章等所谮，望之自杀，堪废黜。
明年，白鹤馆灾。
园中五里驰逐走马之馆，不当在山陵昭穆之地。
天戒若曰，去贵近逸游不正之臣，将害忠良。
后章坐走马上林下烽驰逐。免官。
永光四年六月甲戌，孝宣杜陵园东阙南方灾。
刘向以为，先是上复征用周堪为光禄勋，及堪弟子张猛为太中大夫，石显等复谮毁之，皆出外迁。
是岁，上复征堪领尚书，猛给事中，石显等终欲害之。
园陵小于朝廷，阙在司马门中，内臣石显之象也。
孝宣，亲而贵；阙，法令所从出也。
天戒若曰，去法令，内臣亲而贵者必为国害。
translation: 
On Bingshen day in April of the first year of Emperor Xuan's Ganlu reign, a fire broke out in the Taishang Imperial Temple in Zhongshan.
On Jiachen day, a fire broke out in the temple of Emperor Xiaowen.
On the last day of April in the third year of Emperor Yuan's reign, a fire broke out in the White Crane Pavilion in Xiaowu Garden.
Liu Xiang believes that before this, former general Xiao Wangzhi and Guanglu doctor Zhou Kan assisted in the government, but were slandered and framed by treacherous ministers Shi Xian, Xu Zhang and others. Xiao Wangzhi committed suicide and Zhou Kan was deposed.
The next year, a fire broke out in the White Crane Pavilion.
The palace villa, which is surrounded by five miles of the garden for people to gallop and chase horses, should not have been built where the ancestors' tombs are.
The warning of the Emperor of Heaven seems to be saying: Get rid of these dignitaries who are close to the ministers who only know how to have fun and behave badly, they will frame Zhongliang.
Later, Xu Zhang was dismissed from the palace for committing the crime of chasing and hunting with fire and horse racing in Shanglinyuan.
On the day of Jiaxu in June of the fourth year of Yongguang, a fire broke out south of Shuque Tower in Du Mausoleum of Emperor Xiaoxuan.
Liu Xiang believes that before this, Emperor Yuan once again recruited and appointed Zhou Kan as Guangluxun, and appointed Zhou Kan's student Zhang Meng as Taizhong doctor. Shi Xian and others slandered and framed him, so they were all transferred away and moved away.
A year later, the emperor recruited Zhou Kan to serve as minister. Zhang Mengma was in trouble, but Shi Xian and others always wanted to frame them.
The cemetery is smaller than the imperial court, and the tower is wrapped around Simamen, which should be a symbol of the eunuch Shi Xian.
Emperor Xiaoxuan is dear and noble; the tower is the place where decrees are announced.
The warning of the Emperor of Heaven seems to be saying: If the eunuch violates the law and becomes favored and becomes prominent, he will definitely become a disaster to the country.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
后堪希得进见，因显言事，事决显口。堪病不能言。
显诬告张猛，自杀于公车。
成帝即位，显卒伏辜。
成帝建始元年正月乙丑，皇考庙灾。
初，宣帝为昭帝后而立父庙，于礼不正。
是时，大将军王凤颛权擅朝，甚于田分，将害国家，故天于元年正月而见象也。
其后浸盛，五将世权，遂以亡道。
鸿嘉三年八月乙卯，孝景庙北阙灾。
十一月甲寅，许皇后废。
永始元年正月癸丑，大官凌室灾。
戊午，戾后园南阙灾。
是时，赵飞燕大幸，许后既废，上将立之，故天见象于凌室，与惠帝四年同应。
戾后，卫太子妾，遭巫蛊之祸，宣帝既立，追加尊号，于礼不正。
又戾后起于微贱，与赵氏同应。
天戒若曰，微贱亡德之人不可以奉宗庙，将绝祭祀，有凶恶之祸至。
translation: 
Later, Zhou Kan was rarely able to see the emperor, and could only report to the emperor through Shi Xian. The government depended on Shi Xianzhi: Zhou Kan was ill and mute and could not speak.
Shi Xian falsely accused Zhang Meng, and Zhang Meng committed suicide in the bus.
After Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty ascended the throne, Shi Xian was finally executed.
On Yichou Day, the first month of the first year of Emperor Cheng's founding, a fire broke out in Huangkao Temple.
At the beginning, Emperor Xuan, as a descendant of Emperor Zhao, built a temple for his biological father, which was not in line with etiquette.
At this time, the great general Wang Feng monopolizes the government and is more tyrannical than Tian Wei in the past, which will endanger the country. Therefore, the Emperor of Heaven sent a disaster warning in the first month of the first year.
Later, the situation became more and more serious. Five great Sima were in power for generations, and the government lost its integrity.
On Yimao day of August in the third year of Hongjia period, a fire broke out in the North Tower of Xiaojing Temple.
On Jiayin Day in November of this year, Queen Xu was deposed.
On the first month of the first year of Yongshi, on the day of Guichou, a fire broke out in the ice room of the high official Ling Cheng.
On Wuwu day, a fire broke out in the south tower of Houyuan.
At that time, Zao Feiyan was greatly favored. Since Empress Xu had been deposed, Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty was about to make her his queen, so the Emperor of Heaven sent a sign of disaster to the Ice Chamber, which corresponded to the Ice Chamber disaster in the fourth year of Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty.
Ruhou was the concubine of Prince Wei. During the reign of Emperor Wu, she was killed in a catastrophic witchcraft case. After Emperor Xuan came to the throne, he added the title of Ruhou, which was not in line with etiquette.
Furthermore, Hou Hou was from a humble background, just like Zhao Feiyan.
The warning of the Emperor of Heaven seems to be: People of humble origins and without moral character are not allowed to worship in the ancestral temple. This will cut off those who offer sacrifices, and a terrible disaster will occur.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
其六月丙寅，赵皇后遂立，姊妹骄妒，贼害皇子，卒皆受诛。
永始四年四月癸未，长乐宫临华殿及未央宫东司马门灾。
六月甲午，孝文霸陵园东阙南方灾。
长乐宫，成帝母王太后之所居也。
未央宫，帝所居也。
霸陵，太宗盛德园也。
是时，太后三弟相续秉政，举宗居位，充塞朝廷，两宫亲属将害国家，故天象仍见。
明年，成都侯商薨，弟曲阳侯根代为大司马秉政。
后四年，根乞骸骨，荐兄子新都侯莽自代，遂覆国焉。
哀帝建平三年正月癸卯，桂宫鸿宁殿灾，帝祖母傅太后之所居也。
时，傅太后欲与成帝母等号齐尊，大臣孔光、师丹等执政，以为不可，太后皆免官爵，遂称尊号。
后三年，帝崩，傅氏诛灭。
平帝元始五年七月己亥，高皇帝原庙殿门灾尽。
高皇帝庙在长安城中，后以叔孙通讥复道，故复起原庙于渭北，非正也。
是时，平帝幼，成帝母王太后临朝，委任王莽，将篡绝汉，堕高祖宗庙，故天象见也。
其冬，平帝崩。
明年，莽居摄，因以篡国，后卒夷灭。
translation: 
On Bingyin day in June of this year, the Queen was registered. The two Zhao sisters were arrogant and jealous and killed the prince. Later, they were executed for their crime.
On the day of Guiwei in April of the fourth year of Yongshi, a fire broke out in Linhua Hall of Changle Palace and Shusima Gate of Weiyang Palace.
In June during the Sino-Japanese War, the south side of Shuque Building in Xiaowenba Cemetery suffered a fire.
Changle Palace is where the Queen Mother, the mother of Emperor Cheng, lived.
Weiyang Palace is where Emperor Cheng lived.
Baling is the mausoleum of Emperor Taizong Xiaowen, who was a beautiful and virtuous man.
At that time, the three younger brothers of the Queen Mother were in charge of the government one after another. The entire Wang family occupied official positions and filled the court. The relatives of the Queen Mother and Queen Tang would harm the country, so celestial phenomena appeared again and again.
In the second year, Wang Shang, the Marquis of Chengdu, died, and his younger brother Wang Gen, the Marquis of Quyang, took over the government affairs in his place as Grand Sima.
Four years later, Wang Gen retired and returned home, recommending his brother's son, Wang Mang, the Marquis of Xindu, to replace him, and the Han Dynasty fell at the hands of Wang Mang.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the third year of Emperor Ai's reign, a fire broke out in the Hongning Hall of Gui Palace, where Emperor Ai's grandmother, the Empress Dowager Fu, lived.
At that time, the Empress Dowager Fu wanted to have the same title as Emperor Cheng's mother. Ministers Kong Guang, Shi Dan and others were in charge of the government. They thought this was not allowed, so the Empress Dowager was exempted from the rank of official title and was given the title of honor.
Three years later, Emperor Ai died and the Fu family was executed.
In the seventh month of the fifth year of Emperor Ping's reign, on Jihai day, the gates of the former palace and temple of Emperor Gao were hit by a disaster and burned down.
The Temple of Emperor Gao was located in Chang'an City. Later, because Shusun Tong ridiculed Emperor Mohui for building a complex road on the road leading to the temple, another temple was built north of the Weishui River, which was not the main temple.
At this time, Emperor Ping was young, and the Empress Dowager, the mother of Emperor Cheng, came to the court to listen to the government. Wang Mang was appointed to take charge of the political affairs. The Empress Dowager wanted to usurp the throne of the Han Dynasty and destroy the ancestor's temple, so the Emperor of Heaven sent disaster signs.
In the winter of this year, Emperor Ping died.
In the second year, Wang Mang came to serve as regent and usurped the country. Later, it finally perished.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
传曰： 治宫室，饰台榭，内淫乱，犯亲戚，侮父兄，则稼穑不成。
说曰：土，中央，生万物者也。
其于王者，为内事。
宫室、夫妇、亲属，亦相生者也。
古者天子诸侯，宫庙大小高卑有制，后夫人媵妾多少进退有度，九族亲疏长幼有序。
孔子曰： 礼，与其奢也，宁俭。
故禹卑宫室，文王刑于寡妻，此圣人之所以昭教化也。
如此则土得其性矣。
若乃奢淫骄慢，则土失其性。
亡水旱之灾而草木百谷不孰，是为稼穑不成。
严公二十八年 冬，大亡麦禾。
董仲舒以为，夫人哀姜淫乱，逆阴气，故大水也。
刘向以为，水旱当书，不书水旱而曰 大亡麦禾 者，土气不养，稼穑不成者也。
是时，夫人淫于二叔，内外亡别，又因凶饥，一年而三筑台，故应是而稼穑不成，饰台榭内淫乱之罚云。
遂不改寤，四年而死，祸流二世，奢淫之患也。
translation: 
It is said in the legend: If you build palaces, decorate terraces and pavilions, engage in sexual immorality, offend your relatives, and treat your father and brothers disrespectfully, your agriculture will suffer disaster.
Explained: Earth, located in the center of heaven and earth, is the foundation for the growth of all things.
For the emperor, it was about fixing things in the palace.
Palaces, couples, and relatives are also necessary for childbearing and rearing.
In ancient times, the size and height of the palaces and temples of the emperors and princes were stipulated by etiquette. There were certain institutional restrictions on the number, selection and release of queens, wives and concubines. The relatives, elders and children of the nine tribes were also ordered.
Confucius said: In terms of etiquette, it is better to be frugal than to be extravagant and extravagant.
Therefore, Dayu lived in a narrow and simple palace, and King Wen of Zhou treated his wife with courtesy. This is the reason why saints can teach clearly!
If we can do this, we can make the soil acquire its nature.
On the contrary, if one is extravagant, promiscuous, arrogant and arrogant, it will cause the earth to lose its nature.
Even if there are no floods or droughts, vegetation and crops will not grow well, and farming will be in vain.
According to the "Spring and Autumn Classic", in the winter of the 28th year of Duke Yan of Lu, a large number of wheat seedlings died.
Dong Zhongshu believed that Mrs. Yan Gong's wife lamented Jiang Huang's obscenity and violated the Yin Qi, so a flood drowned the wheat seedlings.
Liu Xiang believes that if there are floods and droughts, they should be recorded. If there are no records of floods and droughts, but only say that "wheat seedlings died in large numbers", it should be due to unsafe conditions and poor agricultural harvests.
At that time, Mrs. Ai Jiang was having an affair with her two brothers-in-law, and they were unruly. Also, when the famine was severe, she built a pavilion three times in one year, which resulted in failure in farming. This was the so-called punishment for beautifying the pavilion and indulging in sexual immorality.
Duke Yan of Lu did not repent and wake up, and died four years later. The disaster spread to two generations, creating the disaster caused by luxury and promiscuity.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
传曰： 好战攻，轻百姓，饰城郭，侵边境，则金不从革。
说曰：金，西方，万物既成，杀气之始也。
故立秋而鹰隼击，秋分而微霜降。
其于王事，出军行师，把旄杖钺，誓士众，抗威武，所以征畔逆、止暴乱也。
《诗》云： 有虔秉钺，如火烈烈。
又曰： 载戢干戈，载橐弓矢。
动静应谊， 说以犯难，民忘其死。
如此则金得其性矣。
若乃贪欲恣睢，务立威胜，不重民命，则金失其性。
盖工冶铸金铁，金铁冰滞涸坚，不成者众，及为变怪，是为金不从革。《左氏传》曰昭公八年 春，石言于晋 。
晋平公问于师旷，对曰： 石不能言，神或冯焉。
作事不时，怨讟动于民，则有非言之物而言。
translation: 
It is said in the legend: Being militaristic and warlike, disregarding the people, decorating city defenses, and invading borders will cause the metal to lose its properties and fail to be smelted.
Explained: Gold represents the West. After all things mature, a chilling atmosphere appears.
Therefore, at the beginning of autumn, you see eagles striking the sky, and at the autumnal equinox, there is a thin layer of frost.
The business of the country at this time is to lead the army out, hold the battle flag, hold the ax and iron, and swear oath to the officers and soldiers, so as to conquer rebellion and suppress rebellion.
The Book of Songs says: Pious and mighty, holding on to a big ax firmly; as fierce as fire, unstoppable.
He also said: Collect spears and spears, put bows and arrows into Tao.
Movement, stillness, action, and timing, willing to risk danger, the people are not afraid of death.
If this can be done, metal can gain its nature.
On the contrary, if you are arrogant and arrogant in your pursuit of great achievements, and do everything to establish prestige and defeat others, and do not put people's lives first, it will cause gold to lose its nature.
When craftsmen smelt and cast gold and iron, the gold and iron would become stagnant like ice, hard and unable to be processed. Often they would not be able to make the required swords or utensils, and even weird things would appear. The metal would lose its properties and cannot be smelted. "Zuo Shi Zhuan" says that in the spring of the eighth year of Zhaogong, there were stones in Jin State that spoke.
Duke Ping of Jin asked Shi Kuang, the official, about this matter. Shi Kuang replied: Stones cannot speak. It may be that the gods speak through the stones.
When work is done out of season, resentment and dissatisfaction boil among the people, causing something that cannot speak to speak.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
今宫室崇侈，民力雕尽，怨讟并兴，莫信其性，石之言不亦宜乎！
于是晋侯方筑祁之宫。
叔向曰： 君子之言，信而有征。
刘歆以为金石同类，是为金不从革，失其性也。
刘向以为石白色为主，属白祥。
成帝鸿嘉三年五月乙亥，天水冀南山大石鸣，声隆隆如雷，有顷止，闻平襄二百四十里，野鸡皆鸣。
石长丈三尺，广厚略等，旁著岸胁，去地二百余丈，民俗名曰石鼓。
石鼓鸣，有兵。
是岁，广汉钳子谋攻牢，篡死罪囚郑躬等，盗库兵，劫略吏民，衣绣衣，自号曰山君，党与浸文。
明年冬，乃伏诛，自归者三千余人。
后四年，尉氏樊并等谋反，杀陈留太守严普，自称将军，山阳亡徒苏令等党与数百人盗取库兵，经历郡国四十余，皆逾年乃伏诛。
translation: 
Nowadays, the palaces are so tall and gorgeous, the people's power is exhausted, complaints are everywhere, and the people are in dire straits. Isn't it just right for the stones to speak out?
At that time, the Marquis of Jin was building the Palace of Nanqi.
Shu Xiang said: What the gentleman Shi Kuang said is credible and verified.
Liu Xin believed that gold and stone were the same kind of thing. Stone can speak just like gold cannot be smelted and has lost its original properties.
Liu Xiang believes that the main color of stones is white, and the words spoken by the stones should be considered a bad omen.
In the fifth month of the third year of Emperor Cheng of the Han Dynasty, Hongjia, Yihai, a large rock screamed in the Nanshan Mountain of Hebei County, Tianshui. The sound was as rumbling as thunder. After a while, it stopped screaming, and then the chorus of wild parrots was heard in an area 240 miles away from Pingxiang.
The huge stone that produced the sound is one foot or three feet long, roughly equal in width and length. It is attached to half of the cliff on one side and is about 200 feet above the ground. Folks are accustomed to calling it "Shigu".
When the stone drum cries, there will be a war.
This year, shackled prisoners in Guanghan County planned to capture the prison. Zheng Gong and others, who were guilty of capital crimes, stole weapons from the arsenal, robbed officials and people, put on brocade clothes, and called themselves tigers, and their gang members grew more and more.
In the winter of the second year, he was executed by law. More than 3,000 people surrendered voluntarily.
Four years later, Fan Bing and others from Weishi County rebelled and killed Yan Pu, the prefect of Chenliu. He claimed to be a general, Su Ling, a fugitive prisoner from Shanyang County, and hundreds of party members stole the weapons from the arsenal. They harassed him in more than 40 counties and counties, and they were not executed until the following year.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
是时起昌陵，作者数万人，徙郡国吏民五千余户以奉陵邑。
作治五年不成，乃罢昌陵，还徙家。
石鸣，与晋石言同应，师旷所谓 民力雕尽 ，传云 轻百姓 者也。
虒祁离宫去绛都四十里，昌陵亦在郊野，皆与城郭同占。
城郭属金，宫室属土，外内之别云。
传曰： 简宗庙，不祷祠，废祭祀，逆天时，则水不润下。
说曰：水，北方，终臧万物者也。
其于人道，命终而琪臧，精神放越，圣人为之宗庙以收魂气，春秋祭祀，以终孝道。
王者即位，必郊祀开地，祷祈神祇，望秩山川，怀柔百神，记不宗事。
慎其齐戒。致其严敬，鬼神歆飨，多获福助。
此圣王所以顺事阴气，和神人也。
至发号施令，亦奉天时。
十二月咸得其气，则阴阳调而终始成。
translation: 
At that time, the construction of Changling Mausoleum was underway, with tens of thousands of migrant workers and more than 5,000 households of officials and civilians from various counties and counties relocated to worship the mausoleum.
After five years of construction and no completion, the construction of Changling Mausoleum was stopped and the relocated households were allowed to return to their place of origin.
The cry of stones is the same as the speech of stones in the Jin Dynasty in the Spring and Autumn Period. It is what Shi Kuang said "the people's power is exhausted" and what the legend said "ignoring the people".
Luqi's palace is forty miles away from Jiangdu, and Changling is also in the countryside. When it comes to divination, it is the same as in the city.
The city belongs to gold, and the ancestral temple belongs to earth. There is only a difference between the inside and outside.
It is said in the legend: If you neglect the rituals of the ancestral temple, do not pray to the gods, abandon the sacrifices, and go against the laws of nature, the water will not flow.
Explained: Water represents the north, the ultimate place where all things are collected.
As far as the way of life and death is concerned, the physical body must be buried after the end of life, while the spirit should be free and detached. For this reason, the saint created the ancestral temple to collect the wandering soul energy, so that future generations can sacrifice their ancestors in the spring and autumn seasons and fulfill the filial piety.
When the emperor ascends the throne, he must worship heaven and earth in the suburbs, pray to the gods, look up and offer sacrifices to the mountains, and summon hundreds of gods to come and enjoy them. Everything must be done respectfully.
Purify your body carefully and fast, be serious and pious, and let the ghosts and gods enjoy it, so that you can receive more blessings and help from the gods.
This is the approach adopted by the Holy King to serve Yin Qi respectfully and harmonize the relationship between gods and humans.
As for the king's orders, he must also follow the timing of heaven.
If you can comply with the solar terms for twelve months of the year, you can harmonize Yin and Yang and start well and end well.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
如此则水得其性矣。
若乃不敬鬼神，政令逆时，则水失其性。
雾水暴出，百川逆溢，坏乡邑，溺人民，及淫雨伤稼穑，是为水不润下。
京房《易传》曰： 颛事有知，诛罚绝理，厥灾水，其水也，雨杀人以陨霜，大风天黄。
饥而不损兹谡泰，厥灾水，水杀人。
辟遏有德兹谓狂，厥灾水，水流杀人，已水则地生虫。
归狱不解，兹谓追非，厥水寒，杀人。
追诛不解，兹谓不理，厥水五谷不收。
大败不解，兹谓皆阴。
解，舍也，王者于大败，诛首恶，赦其众，不则皆函阴气，厥水流入国邑，陨霜杀叔草。
桓公元年 秋炁大水 。
translation: 
This will allow the water to acquire its nature.
If ghosts and gods are not respected and political orders are contrary to the laws of nature, water will lose its nature.
In this way, black water breaks out, rivers overflow, wash away cities and rural areas, drown people, and continuous rains damage crops, this is the water not moistening.
Jingfang's "Yi Zhuan" says: Absolute power and indulgence in lust, and unreasonable punishments will cause floods. Floods are heavy rains that drown people, frost, strong winds, and dark skies.
Not cutting down on meals and frugality in a year of famine would be too extravagant, and it would also be the cause of floods that could drown people.
The emperor made moral people suppressed and unable to be reused. This is called arrogance and ignorance. The natural disasters caused were also floods. Rivers overflowed and drowned people. After the floods, the fields were infested with pests.
The great prison does not know how to stop, and the creation is stubborn and will kill people in the cold.
It is unethical to pursue and kill relentlessly, and the floods caused by this will mean that the crops will not be harvested.
Pursuing a defeated enemy relentlessly is what is called Quan Yin.
To be lazy means to give up and not pursue. A person who is the king of the world will only kill the chief culprit of a defeated enemy and pardon his tribe. Otherwise, the yin energy will be everywhere, and floods will flow into the city and countryside of the country, and frost will fall from the sky and freeze the crops.
In the autumn of the first year of Huan AD, there was a flood.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
董仲舒、刘向以为桓弑兄隐公，民臣痛隐而贱桓。
后宋督弑其君，诸侯会，将讨之，桓受宋赂而归，又背宋。
诸侯由是伐鲁，仍交兵结仇，伏尸流血，百姓愈怨，故十三年夏复大水。
一曰，夫人骄淫，将弑君，隐气盛，桓不寤，卒弑死。
刘歆以为桓易许田，不祀周公，废祭祀之罚也。
严公七年 秋，大水，亡麦苗 。
董仲舒、刘向以为，严母文姜与兄齐襄公淫，共杀桓公，严释父仇，复取齐女，未入，先与之淫，一年再出，会于道逆乱，臣下贱之之应也。
translation: 
Dong Zhongshu and Liu Xiang believed that at that time Duke Huan of Lu killed his brother Duke Yin of Lu. The subjects mourned Duke Yin and despised Duke Huan's actions.
This caused the flood. Later, Hua Fu, the governor of the Song State, killed his king, and the princes gathered to attack the Song State. Duke Huan of Lu accepted Song's bribe and withdrew his army, and then turned his back on the Song State.
Because of this, the princes and countries attacked the Lu State, and they fought endlessly and became enemies. Dead bodies were everywhere and blood flowed into rivers. The people became even more resentful, so there was another flood in the summer of the thirteenth year.
There is a saying that because Wen Jiang, the wife of Duke Huan, was arrogant and lustful, she wanted to kill Duke Huan because her Yin energy was too strong. Duke Huan of Lu did not wake up and was finally killed.
Liu Xin believed that this was because Duke Huan of Lu had transferred Xu Tian, ​​which had a temple to Duke Zhou in Chengzhou, to Zheng Guo, stopped offering sacrifices to Duke Zhou, and was punished for abandoning the ritual of sacrifice.
In the autumn of the seventh year of Duke Yan of Lu, there was a flood and the wheat seedlings drowned.
Dong Zhongshu and Liu Xiang believed that Duke Yan's mother Wen Jiang had committed adultery with her brother Qi Xianggong, and together they killed Duke Huan of Lu. However, Duke Yan of Lu ignored the revenge of killing his father and married a woman from Qi State. If he is not married, he will have sex with her first, and then marry him a year later. Mr. Yan will greet her on the road from afar. Such an act of disobedience and lewdness aroused the contempt of his subjects.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
十一年 秋，宋大水 。
董仲舒以为时鲁、宋比年为乘丘、鄑之战，百姓愁怨，阴气盛，故二国俱水。
刘向以为时宋愍公骄慢，睹灾不改，明年与其臣宋万博戏，妇人在侧，矜而骂万，万杀公之应。
二十四年， 大水 。
董仲舒以为夫人哀姜淫乱不妇，阴气盛也。
刘向以为哀姜初入，公使大夫宗妇见，用币，又淫于二叔，公弗能禁。
臣下贱之，故是岁、明年仍大水。
刘歆以为先是严饰宗庙，刻桷丹楹，以夸夫人，简宗庙之罚也。
宣公十年 秋，大水，饥 。
translation: 
The floods were a reaction to these scandals. In the autumn of the eleventh year, there was a flood in the Song Dynasty.
Dong Zhongshu believes that at that time, the two countries of Lu and Song were engaged in the Battle of Chengqiu and the Battle of County in succession. The people were worried and resentful, and the yin energy was too strong, which led to floods in the capitals of Lu and Song.
Liu Xiang believes that Song Mingong was arrogant and arrogant at that time, and he did not repent after seeing the warning of natural disasters. The next year, when he played a game of gambling with his minister Song Wan, there was a woman beside him.
Twenty-four years ago, there was a flood.
Dong Zhongshu believed that this was caused by Mrs. Aijiang's promiscuity and unruly women's conduct and excessive yin energy.
Liu Xiang believed that Ai Jiang had just married into the state of Lu, and Duke Yan of Lu asked the wife of a clan official to visit her. During the visit, he used jade and silk as a gift, which was not in line with etiquette. Later, Ai Jiang committed adultery with two brothers-in-law, and Duke Yan could not stop it.
The ministers despised this kind of scandal, so there were successive floods that year and the next year.
Liu Xin believed that before this, Lu Yangong decorated the ancestral temple, carved rafters, painted pillars, and painted red vermilion to show off to his wife, but he was disrespectful to the ancestral temple rituals, so he was severely punished by the Emperor of Heaven.
In the tenth year of Xuangong's reign, there were floods in autumn and famine occurred.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
董仲舒以为，时比伐邾取邑，亦见报复，兵仇连结，百姓愁怨。
刘向以为，宣公杀子赤而立，子赤，刘出也，故惧，以济西田赂齐。
邾子玃且亦齐出也，而宣比与邾交兵。臣下惧齐之威，创邾之祸，皆贱公行而非其正也。
成公五年 秋，大水 。
董仲舒、刘向以为，时成幼弱，政在大夫，前此一年再用师，明年复城郓以强私家，仲孙蔑、叔孙侨和颛会宋、晋，阴胜阳。襄公二十四年 秋，大水。
董仲舒以为，先是一年齐伐晋，襄使大夫帅师救晋，后又侵齐，国小兵弱，数敌强大，百姓愁怨，阴气盛。
刘向以为，先是襄慢邻国，是以邾伐其南，齐伐其北，莒伐其东，百姓骚动，后又仍犯强齐也。
translation: 
Dong Zhongshu believed that this was due to the frequent conquests of the Lu State at that time and the capture of the city, and the counterattacks and retaliations at the same time. As a result, war disasters continued, and the people were worried and resentful.
Liu Xiang believed that it was Lu Xuan Gong who killed Zi Chi and established himself as king. Zichi was born to the daughter of the Jiang family of Qi State, so he was afraid of being punished by Qi State, so he gave the land in Jixi to Qi State.
The son of Zhu was also born to a woman from the state of Qi. Now Duke Xuan was at war with the state of Zhu. The subjects were all worried that the strong state of Qi would punish the state of Lu for harming the state of Zhu. For this reason, they all despised or dissatisfied the Duke of Xuan for acting unfairly.
This is what caused the flood. In the autumn of the fifth year of Chenggong's reign, there was a flood.
Dong Zhongshu and Liu Xiang believe that at that time, Duke Cheng was still young and weak, and the government was in charge of the government. Before that, he had used troops to fight twice a year. In the second year, Pic City was built to strengthen private power. Zhongsun Mi and Shusun Qiaoru made an alliance with the Song and Jin countries without authorization. The yin energy prevailed over the yang energy, which led to the flood. In the autumn of the twenty-fourth year of Duke Xiang, there was a flood.
Dong Zhongshu believes that the year before, Qi State conquered Jin State, and Lu Xianggong sent officials to lead the army to rescue Jin State. Later, he invaded Qi State. Although his country was small and weak, it made enemies of powerful countries many times. The people were worried and resentful about this, and the Yin Qi was too strong and caused this flood.
Liu Xiang believed that before this, Lu Xianggong bullied his neighboring countries, which caused Zhu to attack from the south, Qi to attack from the north, and Ju to attack from Shumian. The people of Lu State were in a state of turmoil. But later, he invaded the powerful Qi state many times, causing a flood.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
大水，饥，谷不成，其灾甚也。
高后三年夏，汉中、南郡大水，水出流四千余家。
四年秋，河南大水，伊、雒流千六百余家，汝水流八百余家。
八年夏，汉中、南郡水复出，流六千余家。
南阳沔水流万余家。
是时，女主独治，诸吕相王。
文帝后三年秋，大雨，昼夜不绝三十五日。
蓝田山水出，流九百余家。
汉水出，坏民室八千余所，杀三百余人。
先是，赵人新垣平以望气得幸，为上立渭阳五帝庙，欲出周鼎，以夏四月，郊见上帝。
岁余惧诛，谋为逆，发觉，要斩，夷三族。
translation: 
Floods flooded the crops, causing famine and grain failure. The disaster was very serious.
In the summer of the third year of Gaohou, a flood occurred in Hanzhong and Nanjun, flooding more than 4,000 people.
In the autumn of the fourth year, there was a flood in Henan. The Yi and Luo rivers overflowed, submerging more than 1,600 people, and the Ru River overflowed, submerging more than 800 people.
In the summer of the eighth year, another flood occurred in Hanzhong and Nanjun, flooding more than 6,000 people.
The Mianshui River in Nanyang flooded and more than 10,000 people were flooded.
At that time, the heroine, the Lu family, was in charge of the government, and all the Lu family members were granted the title of King Ya.
In the autumn of the third year after Emperor Wen of Han Dynasty, it rained heavily day and night for thirty-five consecutive days.
Flash floods broke out in Lantian, destroying more than 900 buildings.
The Han River flooded, destroying more than 8,000 houses and killing more than 300 people.
Prior to this, Xinyuan Qiangui, a traveler who could see the clouds and know the feng shui, was favored by the emperor, so he built the Five Emperors Temple on the north side of the Weishui River for Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty. If he wanted the Zhou Ding to reappear, he would have to hold a suburban sacrifice to pay homage to the Emperor of Heaven in April in the summer.
After going on for more than a year, the scam was exposed. Fearing that he would be executed, he conspired to rebel. When he was discovered, he was beheaded to death and the three tribes were annihilated.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
是时，比再遣公主配单于，赂遗甚厚，匈奴愈骄，侵犯北边，杀略多至万余人，汉连发军征讨戍边。
元帝永光五年夏及秋，大水。
颍川、汝南、淮阳、庐江雨，坏乡聚民舍，及水流杀人。
先是一年，有司奏罢郡国庙，是岁又定迭毁，罢太上皇、孝惠帝寝庙，皆无复修，通儒以为违古制。
刑臣石显用事。
成帝建始三年夏，大水，三辅霖雨三十余日，郡国十九雨，山谷水出，凡杀四千余人，坏官寺民舍八万三千余所。
元年，有司奏徙甘泉泰畴、河东后土于长安南北郊。
二年，又罢雍五畦，郡国诸旧祀，凡六所。
translation: 
At that time, the princess was sent several times to marry the Xiongnu Chanyu, and the gifts were also generous. However, the Xiongnu became more and more arrogant, often invading the northern border, and killing more than 10,000 people. For this reason, the Han Dynasty continuously sent troops to conquer the Xiongnu to defend the border.
In the fifth year of Emperor Yongguang's reign in the Han Dynasty, major floods occurred in the summer and autumn.
Heavy rains fell in Yingchuan, Runan, Huaiyang, and Lujiang River, destroying urban and rural houses and drowning many people in floods.
In the previous year, relevant officials petitioned to cancel the ancestral temples in various counties. This year, they also stipulated the replacement and abolishment of ancestral temples. The dormitory temples of Emperor Taishang and Emperor Xiaohui were abolished and will not be repaired. Mr. Bolu, who is well versed in Confucianism, believes that this violates ancient etiquette.
The eunuch Shi Xian took charge of the affairs.
In the summer of the third year after the founding of Emperor Cheng, there was a flood. Heavy rains continued for more than 30 days in Jingzhao, Fengyi, and Fufeng in the Chang'an area. It rained for 19 days in various counties and feudal states. Flash floods broke out, drowning more than 4,000 people in total, and destroying more than 83,000 official and civilian buildings.
In the first year of Jianshi, relevant officials petitioned to move the Taishi Temple in Ganquan and the Houtu Temple in Hedong to the southern and northern suburbs of Chang'an City respectively.
In the second year of its founding, the Five Seasons Temple in Yongdi and various old shrines in local counties were abolished, a total of six places.


