Summary uses chunk [0, 8, 10, 13, 14]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
舞阳侯樊哙者，沛人也。以屠狗为事，与高祖俱隐。
初从高祖起丰，攻下沛。
高祖为沛公，以哙为舍人。
从攻胡陵、方与，还守丰，击泗水监丰下，破之。
复东定沛，破泗水守薛西。
与司马枿战砀东，卻敌，斩首十五级，赐爵国大夫。
常从，沛公击章邯军濮阳，攻城先登，斩首二十三级，赐爵列大夫。
复常从，从攻城阳，先登。下户牖，破李由军，斩首十六级，赐上间爵。
从攻围东郡守尉於成武，卻敌，斩首十四级，捕虏十一人，赐爵五大夫。
从击秦军，出亳南。
河间守军於杠里，破之。
击破赵贲军开封北，以卻敌先登，斩候一人，首六十八级，捕虏二十七人，赐爵卿。
从攻破杨熊军於曲遇。
攻宛陵，先登，斩首八级，捕虏四十四人，赐爵封号贤成君。
从攻长社、轘辕，绝河津，东攻秦军於尸，南攻秦军於犨。
破南阳守齮於阳城。东攻宛城，先登。
西至郦，以卻敌，斩首二十四级，捕虏四十人，赐重封。
攻武关，至霸上，斩都尉一人，首十级，捕虏百四十六人，降卒二千九百人。
项羽在戏下，欲攻沛公。
translation: 
Wuyang Hou Fan Kuai was a native of Peixian County. He made a living by killing dogs and selling their meat. He once hid in the countryside with Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
At first, Fan Kuai followed Gaozu and raised troops in Fengyi and captured Peixian County.
When Emperor Gaozu was the Duke of Pei, he used Fan Kuai as his servant.
He followed Pei Gong to attack Huling and Fangyu, then returned to guard Fengyi. He attacked the army of the Sishui County Supervisor in Fengyi and defeated them.
Then he went east to pacify Peixian County, and defeated the army of Sishui County Governor to the west of Xue County.
Fighting with Sima in the east of Dang County, he defeated the enemy and beheaded fifteen people. Pei Gong granted him the title of a senior official in other countries.
Pei Gong attacked Zhang Han's army in Puyang. When he attacked the city, Fan Kuai took the lead in ascending the city and beheaded twenty-three Qin soldiers. Pei Gong also gave him the title of Duke Dafu.
After that, he often followed Pei Gong. When he attacked Chengyang, he took the lead in ascending the city and captured Hufu. He defeated Li You's army, beheaded sixteen people, and was awarded the title of Shangjian.
When the follower Pei Gong besieged the governor of Dongjun in Chengwu, he repulsed the enemy, beheaded fourteen people, captured eleven people, and granted the title of five great officials.
Following Pei Gong, he attacked the Qin army and passed south of Boyi.
The troops of the governor of Hejian were in the camp, and Fan Kuai defeated them.
They also defeated Zhao Bi's army in the north of Kaifeng. Fan Kuai defeated the enemy and took the lead in ascending the city. He beheaded one of the military commanders, beheaded 68 people and captured 27 people. Pei Gong gave him the title of Qing.
Following Pei Gong, he defeated Yang Xiong's army in Quyu.
When attacking Wanling, Fan Kuai took the lead in ascending the city, beheaded eight people and captured 44 people. Peigong gave him the title of Xian Chengjun.
He followed Pei Gong to attack Changshe and Sheyuan, blockaded the Yellow River ferry, went east to attack the Qin army in Shixiang, and went south to attack the Qin army in Taoyi.
Defeat Lu , the governor of Nanyang County, in Yangcheng. When attacking Wancheng to the east, Fan Kuai took the lead in ascending the city.
Arriving at Li County in the west, Fan Kuai repelled the enemy, beheaded 24 of them and captured 40, and was rewarded by Pei Gong with an increase in rank and salary.
Attacked Wuguan, and when they reached Bashang, they killed one captain, beheaded ten people, captured 146 people, and surrendered 2,900 enemy soldiers.
Xiang Yu garrisoned under the stage and prepared to attack Peigong.

summary:
summary line 0: Fan Kuai, a native of Peixian County, initially made a living by killing dogs and selling meat. He joined Liu Bang (later Emperor Gaozu of Han) in raising troops, capturing Peixian, and serving as a servant. Throughout numerous battles, Fan Kuai consistently demonstrated valor, often leading assaults on cities and beheading enemy soldiers. His military exploits included defeating Qin forces at Puyang, Chengyang, and Kaifeng, among others, earning him successive titles and promotions from Pei Gong (Liu Bang). A pivotal moment occurred at the Hongmen Banquet, where Xiang Yu plotted to kill Pei Gong. Fan Kuai, stationed outside, burst into the camp with an iron shield, confronted Xiang Yu, and condemned his actions, ultimately saving Pei Gong's life. Following Xiang Yu's defeat, Fan Kuai continued to serve Gaozu, suppressing rebellions by Zang Tu, Han Xin, Chen Xi, and Lu Wan, and was enfeoffed as Marquis of Wuyang with 5,400 households. He married Empress Lü's sister, Lü Xu, and remained close to Gaozu. During Gaozu's illness, Fan Kuai boldly entered the palace to urge him to attend to state affairs. Later, slandered for conspiring with the Lü clan, Gaozu ordered his execution, but Chen Ping delayed, and after Gaozu's death, Empress Lü released him. Fan Kuai died in the sixth year of Emperor Hui's reign, posthumously titled Marquis Wu. His descendants held the title until it was revoked in Emperor Jing's time due to legal transgressions.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
项羽既已死，汉王为帝。其秋，燕王臧荼反，商以将军从击荼，战龙脱，先登陷阵，破荼军易下，卻敌，迁为右丞相，赐爵列侯，与诸侯剖符，世世勿绝，食邑涿五千户，号曰涿侯。以右丞相别定上谷，因攻代，受赵相国印。
以右丞相赵相国别与绛侯等定代、雁门，得代丞相程纵、守相郭同、将军已下至六百石十九人。
还，以将军为太上皇卫一岁七月。
以右丞相击陈豨，残东垣。
又以右丞相从高帝击黥布，攻其前拒，陷两陈，得以破布军，更食曲周五千一百户，除前所食，凡别破军三，降定郡六，县七十三，得丞相、守相、大将各一人，小将二人，二千石已下至六百石十九人。
商事孝惠、高后时，商病，不治。
其子寄，字况，与吕禄善。
及高后崩，大臣欲诛诸吕，吕禄为将军，军於北军，太尉勃不得入北军，於是乃使人劫郦商，令其子况绐吕禄，吕禄信之，故与出游，而太尉勃乃得入据北军，遂诛诸吕。是岁商卒，谥为景侯。
子寄代侯。天下称郦况卖交也。
孝景前三年，吴、楚、齐、赵反，上以寄为将军，围赵城，十月不能下。
得俞侯栾布自平齐来，乃下赵城，灭赵，王自杀，除国。
孝景中二年，寄欲取平原君为夫人，景帝怒，下寄吏，有罪，夺侯。
景帝乃以商他子坚封为缪侯，续郦氏後。
缪靖侯卒，子康侯遂成立。
遂成卒，子怀侯世宗立。
世宗卒，子侯终根立，为太常，坐法，国除。
translation: 
Because of his meritorious service in killing the enemy, he was promoted to the right prime minister, and was given the title of a lord. Like other princes, he cut the talisman as a letter, and it will never be extinguished from generation to generation. He took the five thousand households in Zhuoyi as his food town and was titled Zhuohou. As prime minister on the right, he led troops to pacify Shanggu alone, and then attacked Dai. Gaozu granted him the seal of the prime minister of Zhao.
As the Prime Minister of the Right and the Prime Minister of the State of Zhao, he led his troops, together with Jianghou Zhou Bo and others, to pacify Dai Heyanmen, and captured alive the Prime Minister of Dai Cheng Zong, the Prime Minister Guo Tong, and a total of 19 officials ranging from generals to 600 shi.
After the victory, he served as the bodyguard of the Supreme Emperor as a general for one year and seven months.
Then he used his position as Prime Minister You to attack Chen Xi and destroy the Dongyuan city wall.
As Prime Minister of the Right, he followed Emperor Gao to attack the rebellious Yingbu. Li Shang led his troops to storm the enemy's forward positions and captured two positions, allowing the Han army to defeat Yingbu's army. Emperor Gao changed his fiefdom to Quzhou, increasing it to 5,100 households, and took back the food fiefdoms he had previously granted. In total, Li Shang defeated three enemy armies, surrendered and pacified six counties and seventy-three counties, and captured the prime minister, the prime minister, one general each, two junior generals, and nineteen officials ranging from 2,000 shi to 600 shi.
Li Shang was serving Xiaohui. When he was a queen, he was unable to take care of political affairs due to poor health.
His son Li Ji was very close to Lu Lu.
In this year, Li Shang passed away, and his posthumous title was Jinghou.
His son Li Ji succeeded to the throne, and everyone in the world said that he had betrayed his friends.
In the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, the vassal states of Wu, Chu, Qi, and Zhao jointly rebelled. The emperor appointed Li Ji as general and besieged Zhao City, but it was not conquered for ten months.
After Yu Hou Luanbu pacified the Qi State and came to help in the war, he took the city of Zhao and wiped out the Zhao State. King Liu Sui of Zhao committed suicide and the feudal state was abolished.
In the second year of Emperor Jing's reign, Li Ji planned to marry Pingyuan Jun, the mother of Emperor Jing and his wife. Emperor Jing was furious and handed Li Ji over to judicial officials for trial. He was found guilty and deprived of his title of marquis.
Emperor Jing named Li Shang's other son Li Jian the Marquis of Mu to continue the Li family's descendants.
After the death of Miao Jinghou Li Jian, his son Kanghou Li Suicheng succeeded to the throne.
After Li Suicheng died, his son Huaihou Li Shizong succeeded to the throne.
After the death of Li Shizong, his son Li Zhonggen inherited the throne and served as Taichang. Later, the feudal state was revoked because of breaking the law.

summary:
summary line 1: Li Shang, from Gaoyang, initially gathered followers during Chen Sheng's rebellion and later joined Pei Gong with over 4,000 soldiers. He distinguished himself in battles, capturing cities like Changshe and Wan, and was appointed Lord of Xincheng and later Captain of Longxi. Li Shang fought against Xiang Yu, defeated forces of Yong King Zhanghan, and pacified regions including Beidi and Shangjun. He was enfeoffed as Marquis of Zhuoxian with 5,000 households, later serving as Right Prime Minister and leading campaigns against Chen Xi and Yingbu. His fief was changed to Quzhou with 5,100 households. Li Shang served under Emperor Xiaohui but was unable to govern due to illness. His son Li Ji succeeded but was executed for treason during the Rebellion of the Seven States. Another son, Li Jian, continued the lineage until it was eventually revoked for legal violations.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
常以太仆奉车从击章邯军东阿、濮阳下，以兵车趣攻战疾，破之，赐爵执珪。
复常奉车从击赵贲军开封，杨熊军曲遇。
婴从捕虏六十八人，降卒八百五十人，得印一匮。
因复常奉车从击秦军雒阳东，以兵车趣攻战疾，赐爵封转为滕公。
因复奉车从攻南阳，战於蓝田、芷阳，以兵车趣攻战疾，至霸上。
项羽至，灭秦，立沛公为汉王。
汉王赐婴爵列侯，号昭平侯，复为太仆，从入蜀、汉。
还定三秦，从击项籍。
至彭城，项羽大破汉军。
汉王败，不利，驰去。
见孝惠、鲁元，载之。汉王急，马罢，虏在後，常蹶两兒欲弃之，婴常收，竟载之，徐行面雍树乃驰。汉王怒，行欲斩婴者十馀，卒得脱，而致孝惠、鲁元於丰。
汉王既至荥阳，收散兵，复振，赐婴食祈阳。
复常奉车从击项籍，追至陈，卒定楚，至鲁，益食兹氏。汉王立为帝。
其秋，燕王臧荼反，婴以太仆从击荼。
明年，从至陈，取楚王信。
translation: 
Xia Houying also used his position as a servant to command chariots and follow Gaozu to attack Zhang Han in Dong'a and Puyang. During the battle, he drove chariots to attack Zhang Han quickly. He fought bravely and defeated the Qin army. Gaozu gave him the title of Zhigui.
He also commanded military chariots to follow Emperor Gaozu in attacking Zhao Ben's army in Kaifeng, and in Quyu he attacked Yang Xiong's army.
During the battle, Xia Houying captured 68 people, surrendered 850 soldiers, and seized a box of gold seals.
Then he commanded military chariots to follow Gaozu to attack the Qin army east of Luoyang. He drove into the battle and fought hard, and Gao Zu granted him the title of Duke Teng.
Then he commanded the chariots to follow Gaozu to attack Nanyang. In the battles at Lantian and Zhiyang, he drove the chariots to fight bravely and fought bravely until he reached Bashang.
After Xiang Yu entered the Pass, he destroyed the Qin Dynasty and made Peigong King of Han.
The King of Han bestowed upon Xiahou Ying the title of Marquis of Zhaoping. He also took the position of Taiwen and followed the King of Han into the Shu and Han regions.
Later, the King of Han returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, and Xia Houying followed the King of Han to attack Xiang Yu's army.
Marching into Pengcheng, the Han army was severely defeated by Xiang Yu.
The king of Han was defeated and fled quickly on his chariot and horse.
Xia Houying drove the car, walking slowly at first, and then drove quickly after the two frightened children hugged his neck tightly. The King of Han was very angry about this and wanted to kill Xia Houying more than ten times, but he finally escaped from danger and sent Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan to Fengyi safe and sound.
After the King of Han arrived at Xingyang, he collected the defeated army and regained its military power. The King of Han gave Qiyang to Xiahou Ying as a food town.
After that, Xia Houying commanded the chariots to follow the King of Han to attack Xiang Yu, pursuing them all the way to Chen County, and finally pacified Chu. When he reached the land of Lu, the king of Han added another county of Zishi to him as a food town.
In the autumn of the year when the king of Han became emperor, Zang Tu, the king of Yan, rebelled. Xia Houying followed Emperor Gao as a servant to attack Zang Tu.
The next year, he followed Emperor Gao to Chen County and arrested King Han Xin of Chu.

summary:
summary line 2: Xiahou Ying, from Peixian, began as a stable hand and befriended Gaozu, even taking a false imprisonment for him. He joined Gaozu's uprising, serving as a chariot commander and fighting in key battles such as Dong'a and Kaifeng. After Xiang Yu's defeat, Xiahou Ying rescued Gaozu's children during a retreat and was enfeoffed as Marquis of Ruyin with 6,900 households. He served as a servant under Gaozu, Xiaohui, and Empress Lü, and played a role in welcoming Emperor Wen to the throne. He died posthumously titled Wenhou. His descendants held the title until it was revoked for adultery.

Chunk 13: 
original: 
高祖之为沛公，略地至雍丘下，章邯败杀项梁，而沛公还军於砀，婴初以中涓从击破东郡尉於成武及秦军於扛里，疾斗，赐爵七大夫。
从攻秦军亳南、开封、曲遇，战疾力，赐爵执帛，号宣陵君。
从攻阳武以西至雒阳，破秦军尸北，北绝河津，南破南阳守齮阳城东，遂定南阳郡。
西入武关，战於蓝田，疾力，至霸上，赐爵执珪，号昌文君。
沛公立为汉王，拜婴为郎中，从入汉中，十月，拜为中谒者。
从还定三秦，下栎阳，降塞王。
还围章邯於废丘，未拔。
从东出临晋关，击降殷王，定其地。
击项羽将龙且、魏相项他军定陶南，疾战，破之。
赐婴爵列侯，号昌文侯，食杜平乡。
复以中谒者从降下砀，以至彭城。
translation: 
When Emperor Gaozu had just raised an army to rebel against Qin and established himself as Pei Gong, he conquered the city and came to Yongqiu City. Zhang Han defeated Xiang Liang and killed him. The Duke of Pei also retreated to the Dang County area. Guan Ying followed the Duke of Pei as the official in charge of the chamberlain. He defeated the army of the Dongjun prefect in Chengwu and the Qin army stationed in Gangli. Because of his bravery in killing the enemy, he was awarded the title of Seventh Doctor.
Later, he followed Pei Gong to fight the Qin army in the south of Bo County, Kaifeng and Quyu. Because of his hard fighting, he was given the title of Zhibo and was named Xuanling Lord.
He then followed Pei Gong to fight the Qin army from the west of Yangwu to Luoyang, defeated the Qin army in the area north of Xixiang, and then cut off the Yellow River ferry to the north. Then he led his troops southward and defeated the army of Nanyang County Governor Lu  east of Nanyang County, thus pacifying Nanyang County.
Going further west, he entered Wuguan and fought with the Qin army in Lantian. Because of his bravery and fighting, he fought all the way to Ba Shang, and was given the title of Zhigui and was named Changwenjun.
After Pei Gong was named King of Han, the King of Han worshiped Guan Ying as a doctor. He followed the King of Han to march into Hanzhong, and in October, he was appointed as the Visitor of the Middle Kingdom.
Following the King of Han, he returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, captured Yueyang, and surrendered to the King of Sai, Sima Xin.
The returning army surrounded Zhang Han again at Feiqiu, but failed to capture it.
Later, he followed the King of Han eastward to Linjin Pass, surrendered to King Dong Yi of Yin, and pacified the area under his jurisdiction.
In the area south of Dingtao, he fought with Xiang Yu's subordinate Long Qie and Wei Prime Minister Xiang Ta's army. After a fierce struggle, he finally defeated the enemy.
Due to his meritorious service, he was given the title of Marquis of the Marquis and was named Marquis of Changwen. Pingxiang in Du County was granted the title of his food town.
Later, as a visitor, he followed the King of Han to capture Dang County and marched into Pengcheng.

summary:
summary line 3: Guan Ying, a silk merchant from Suiyang, joined Pei Gong and fought in numerous campaigns, including against Qin forces and Xiang Yu. He distinguished himself as a cavalry commander, defeating Chu forces and capturing key figures like Zhou Lan. After Xiang Yu's death, Guan Ying pursued and killed him, leading to his enfeoffment as Marquis of Yingyin with 5,000 households. He later suppressed rebellions by Zang Tu, Han Xin, Chen Xi, and Yingbu. During the Lü clan crisis, he feigned support but secretly allied with Zhou Bo to establish Emperor Wen, becoming Taiwei and later Prime Minister. He died in office, posthumously titled Yihou. His descendants held the title until it was revoked for bribery.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
项羽击，大破汉王。
汉王遁而西，婴从还，军於雍丘。
王武、魏公申徒反，从击破之。
攻下黄，西收兵，军於荥阳。
楚骑来众，汉王乃择军中可为骑将者，皆推故秦骑士重泉人李必、骆甲习骑兵，今为校尉，可为骑将。
汉王欲拜之，必、甲曰： 臣故秦民，恐军不信臣，臣原得大王左右善骑者傅之。
灌婴虽少，然数力战，乃拜灌婴为中大夫，令李必、骆甲为左右校尉，将郎中骑兵击楚骑於荥阳东，大破之。
受诏别击楚军後，绝其饷道，起阳武至襄邑。
击项羽之将项冠於鲁下，破之，所将卒斩右司马、骑将各一人。
击破柘公王武，军於燕西，所将卒斩楼烦将五人，连尹一人。
击王武别将桓婴白马下，破之，所将卒斩都尉一人。
以骑渡河南，送汉王到雒阳，使北迎相国韩信军於邯郸。
translation: 
Xiang Yu led the army to attack and defeated the king of Han.
The King of Han fled westward, and Guan Ying retreated with the King of Han and stationed himself at Yongqiu.
Wang Wu and Wei Gong Shen Tu rebelled, and Guan Ying followed the King of Han to attack and defeated them.
After conquering Waihuang, he recruited soldiers to the west and stationed himself in Xingyang.
Xiang Yu's army came to attack again, and there were many cavalry among them. The king of Han selected people in the army who could serve as cavalry generals. Everyone recommended Li Bi and Luo Jia from Chongquan, the former knights of the Qin Dynasty.
The King of Han was about to appoint them, but the two of them said: We are originally Qin people, and I am afraid that the army sergeants think we are unreliable, so please appoint someone who is always by your side and is good at riding and shooting as our leader.
Although Guan Ying was young at that time, he fought bravely in many battles, so he was appointed as the middle doctor, and Li Bi and Luo Jia were appointed as the left and right captains. He led the Langzhong cavalry to fight the Chu cavalry east of Xingyang, and defeated the Chu army.
On the order of the King of Han, he led an army alone to attack the rear of the Chu army, cutting off the Chu army's food supply line from Yangwu to Xiangyi.
In the area of ​​​​the Lu State, they defeated the army of General Xiang Guan of Xiang Yu. His soldiers killed the Chu Army's You Sima and one of his cavalry officers.
After defeating Duke Zhe and Wang Wu, the army was stationed in the western area of ​​​​Yan State. The soldiers under his command killed five generals from Lou Fan and one from Lian Yin.
Near Baima, Wang Wu's general Huan Ying was defeated, and the soldiers under his command killed one of the captains.
He also led the cavalry to cross the Yellow River south and escorted the King of Han to Luoyang. Then the King of Han sent Guan Ying to Handan to meet the troops of the Prime Minister Han Xin.

summary:
summary line 4: Sima Qian notes that these figures, originally humble commoners, rose to prominence and established lasting legacies through their service to the Han dynasty.

