Chunk 0: 
original: 
舞阳侯樊哙者，沛人也。以屠狗为事，与高祖俱隐。
初从高祖起丰，攻下沛。
高祖为沛公，以哙为舍人。
从攻胡陵、方与，还守丰，击泗水监丰下，破之。
复东定沛，破泗水守薛西。
与司马枿战砀东，卻敌，斩首十五级，赐爵国大夫。
常从，沛公击章邯军濮阳，攻城先登，斩首二十三级，赐爵列大夫。
复常从，从攻城阳，先登。下户牖，破李由军，斩首十六级，赐上间爵。
从攻围东郡守尉於成武，卻敌，斩首十四级，捕虏十一人，赐爵五大夫。
从击秦军，出亳南。
河间守军於杠里，破之。
击破赵贲军开封北，以卻敌先登，斩候一人，首六十八级，捕虏二十七人，赐爵卿。
从攻破杨熊军於曲遇。
攻宛陵，先登，斩首八级，捕虏四十四人，赐爵封号贤成君。
从攻长社、轘辕，绝河津，东攻秦军於尸，南攻秦军於犨。
破南阳守齮於阳城。东攻宛城，先登。
西至郦，以卻敌，斩首二十四级，捕虏四十人，赐重封。
攻武关，至霸上，斩都尉一人，首十级，捕虏百四十六人，降卒二千九百人。
项羽在戏下，欲攻沛公。
translation: 
Wuyang Hou Fan Kuai was a native of Peixian County. He made a living by killing dogs and selling their meat. He once hid in the countryside with Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty.
At first, Fan Kuai followed Gaozu and raised troops in Fengyi and captured Peixian County.
When Emperor Gaozu was the Duke of Pei, he used Fan Kuai as his servant.
He followed Pei Gong to attack Huling and Fangyu, then returned to guard Fengyi. He attacked the army of the Sishui County Supervisor in Fengyi and defeated them.
Then he went east to pacify Peixian County, and defeated the army of Sishui County Governor to the west of Xue County.
Fighting with Sima in the east of Dang County, he defeated the enemy and beheaded fifteen people. Pei Gong granted him the title of a senior official in other countries.
Pei Gong attacked Zhang Han's army in Puyang. When he attacked the city, Fan Kuai took the lead in ascending the city and beheaded twenty-three Qin soldiers. Pei Gong also gave him the title of Duke Dafu.
After that, he often followed Pei Gong. When he attacked Chengyang, he took the lead in ascending the city and captured Hufu. He defeated Li You's army, beheaded sixteen people, and was awarded the title of Shangjian.
When the follower Pei Gong besieged the governor of Dongjun in Chengwu, he repulsed the enemy, beheaded fourteen people, captured eleven people, and granted the title of five great officials.
Following Pei Gong, he attacked the Qin army and passed south of Boyi.
The troops of the governor of Hejian were in the camp, and Fan Kuai defeated them.
They also defeated Zhao Bi's army in the north of Kaifeng. Fan Kuai defeated the enemy and took the lead in ascending the city. He beheaded one of the military commanders, beheaded 68 people and captured 27 people. Pei Gong gave him the title of Qing.
Following Pei Gong, he defeated Yang Xiong's army in Quyu.
When attacking Wanling, Fan Kuai took the lead in ascending the city, beheaded eight people and captured 44 people. Peigong gave him the title of Xian Chengjun.
He followed Pei Gong to attack Changshe and Sheyuan, blockaded the Yellow River ferry, went east to attack the Qin army in Shixiang, and went south to attack the Qin army in Taoyi.
Defeat Lu , the governor of Nanyang County, in Yangcheng. When attacking Wancheng to the east, Fan Kuai took the lead in ascending the city.
Arriving at Li County in the west, Fan Kuai repelled the enemy, beheaded 24 of them and captured 40, and was rewarded by Pei Gong with an increase in rank and salary.
Attacked Wuguan, and when they reached Bashang, they killed one captain, beheaded ten people, captured 146 people, and surrendered 2,900 enemy soldiers.
Xiang Yu garrisoned under the stage and prepared to attack Peigong.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
沛公从百馀骑因项伯面见项羽，谢无有闭关事。
项羽既飨军士，中酒，亚父谋欲杀沛公，令项庄拔剑舞坐中，欲击沛公，项伯常蔽之。
时独沛公与张良得入坐，樊哙在营外，闻事急，乃持铁盾入到营。
营卫止哙，哙直撞入，立帐下。
项羽目之，问为谁。
张良曰： 沛公参乘樊哙。
项羽曰： 壮士。
赐之卮酒彘肩。
哙既饮酒，拔剑切肉食，尽之。
项羽曰： 能复饮乎？
哙曰： 臣死且不辞，岂特卮酒乎！
且沛公先入定咸阳，暴师霸上，以待大王。
大王今日至，听小人之言，与沛公有隙，臣恐天下解，心疑大王也。
项羽默然。
沛公如厕，麾樊哙去。
translation: 
Pei Gong sent more than a hundred cavalry with him to meet Xiang Yu through Xiang Bo, and stated that he had not blocked the pass.
Xiang Yu held a banquet in honor of the army lieutenants. While they were drinking heavily, Yafu wanted to murder Pei Gong. He sent Xiang Zhuang to draw his sword and perform a dance in front of the banquet, hoping to take the opportunity to assassinate Pei Gong. However, Xiang Bo repeatedly protected Pei Gong.
At that time, only Pei Gong and Zhang Liang could enter the camp and sit down. Fan Kuai stayed outside the camp. Hearing that Pei Gong's situation was urgent, he entered the camp with an iron shield.
The guards of the military camp stopped Fan Kuai, but Fan Kuai ran straight in and stood under the tent.
Xiang Yu looked at him with his eyes and asked him who he was.
Zhang Liang said: "It's Fan Kuai who is accompanying Duke Pei."
Xiang Yu said: Strong man!
He gave him a cup of wine and a pig's leg.
After Fan Kuai drank the wine, he drew his sword, cut the meat, and ate it all.
Xiang Yu asked: Can I drink again?
Fan Kuai said: If I die, I will not refuse, let alone just drink a glass of wine!
Besides, Pei Gong first entered the Pass to pacify Xianyang and camped in Bashang to wait for the king.
As soon as the king arrived today, he listened to the villain's slander and had a problem with Pei Gong. I am worried that the world will be divided and the people will doubt the king.
Xiang Yu remained silent.
Pei Gong went to the toilet and called Fan Kuai out.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
既出，沛公留车骑，独骑一马，与樊哙等四人步从，从间道山下归走霸上军，而使张良谢项羽。
项羽亦因遂已，无诛沛公之心矣。
是日微樊哙饹入营谯让项羽，沛公事几殆。
明日，项羽入屠咸阳，立沛公为汉王。汉王赐哙爵为列侯，号临武侯。
迁为郎中，从入汉中。
还定三秦，别击西丞白水北，雍轻车骑於雍南，破之。
从攻雍、斄城，先登击章平军好畤，攻城，先登陷阵，斩县令丞各一人，首十一级，虏二十人，迁郎中骑将。
从击秦车骑壤东，卻敌，迁为将军。
攻赵贲，下郿、槐里、柳中、咸阳；灌废丘，最。
translation: 
After coming out, Pei Gong left behind his carriage and rode only one horse. He followed Fan Kuai and four other men on foot and took a small path down the mountain to escape back to Bashang's military camp, leaving Zhang Liang to say goodbye to Xiang Yu.
Xiang Yu also had his way, so he had no intention of killing Pei Gong.
On this day, if Fan Kuai hadn't broken into the camp and condemned Xiang Yu, Pei Gong's situation would have been in danger.
The next day, Xiang Yu entered the city and bloodbathed Xianyang, and made Peigong the king of Han. The king of Han also made Fan Kuai a prince, called Linwuhou.
Later he was promoted to doctor and followed the King of Han into Hanzhong.
When the King of Han returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, Fan Kuai led another army to attack the army of the county magistrate of Xi County to the north of Baishui, and to the south of Yong County to attack King Yong's light cavalry troops and defeated them.
Following the king of Han, he attacked the two cities of Yong and Zhe, and was the first to ascend the city. When attacking Zhang Ping's army in Hao'an, he took the lead in ascending the city and rushed into the enemy's formation. He killed one county magistrate and one county magistrate each, beheaded 11 people and captured 20 people. He was promoted to the rank of Cavalry Commander.
Following the King of Han, he attacked the Qin army's chariots and cavalry in the east of Rang Township and repulsed the enemy. He was promoted to general.
He made the greatest contribution in attacking Zhao Bi and occupying Yixian, Huaili, Liuzhong, Xianyang and other places. He also made the greatest contribution by diverting water to irrigate waste hills.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
至栎阳，赐食邑杜之樊乡。
从攻项籍，屠煮枣。
击破王武、程处军於外黄。
攻邹、鲁、瑕丘、薛。
项羽败汉王於彭城，尽复取鲁、梁地。
哙还至荥阳，益食平阴二千户，以将军守广武。
一岁，项羽引而东。从高祖击项籍，下阳夏，虏楚周将军卒四千人。围项籍於陈，大破之。
屠胡陵。
项籍既死，汉王为帝，以哙坚守战有功，益食八百户。
从高帝攻反燕王臧荼，虏荼，定燕地。
楚王韩信反，哙从至陈，取信，定楚。
更赐爵列侯，与诸侯剖符，世世勿绝，食舞阳，号为舞阳侯，除前所食。
以将军从高祖攻反韩王信於代。
translation: 
When they arrived at Yueyang, the king of Han granted Fan Xiang, who was enfeoffed to Du Ling, as Fan Kuai's food town.
He followed the king of Han to attack Xiang Ji, washed the dates with blood and boiled them.
Defeated the armies of Wang Wu and Cheng Chu in Waihuang.
Capture Zouxian, Luxian, Xiaqiu and Xuexian.
Xiang Yu defeated the King of Han in Pengcheng and regained all the lands of Lu and Liang.
When Fan Kuai returned to Xingyang, the king of Han added 2,000 households in Pingyin as his settlement, and asked him to guard Guangwu as a general.
A year later, Xiang Yu led his troops eastward, and Fan Kuai followed Gaozu to attack Xiang Ji, occupy Yangxia, and captured 4,000 soldiers of General Zhou of Chu. They surrounded Xiang Ji in Chen County and defeated him.
Bloodbath in Hu Ling.
After Xiang Yu's death, the King of Han became the emperor. Because of Fan Kuai's meritorious service in holding on to the city and attacking in battles, he granted 800 households a new enfeoffment.
Fan Kuai followed Gaozu to attack the rebellious King of Yan Zang Tu, captured Zang Tu, and pacified the Yan territory.
King Han Xin of Chu launched a rebellion. Fan Kuai followed Gaozu to Chen County, arrested Han Xin, and pacified Chu.
Emperor Gaozu changed Fan Kuai's title to that of a noble prince and established a trustworthy relationship with the princes, so that they could be passed down from generation to generation. Emperor Gaozu removed Fan Kuai's former food town and gave him food in Wuyang, naming him Marquis of Wuyang.
Later, Fan Kuai followed Gaozu to Daidi as a general to attack the rebellious King Xin of Han.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
自霍人以往至云中，与绛侯等共定之，益食千五百户。
因击陈豨与曼丘臣军，战襄国，破柏人，先登，降定清河、常山凡二十七县，残东垣，迁为左丞相。
破得綦毋卬、尹潘军於无终、广昌。
破豨别将胡人王黄军於代南，因击韩信军於参合。
军所将卒斩韩信，破豨胡骑横谷，斩将军赵既，虏代丞相冯梁、守孙奋、大将王黄、将军、太仆解福等十人。
与诸将共定代乡邑七十三。
其後燕王卢绾反，哙以相国击卢绾，破其丞相抵蓟南，定燕地，凡县十八，乡邑五十一。
益食邑千三百户，定食舞阳五千四百户。
从，斩首百七十六级，虏二百八十八人。
别，破军七，下城五，定郡六，县五十二，得丞相一人，将军十二人，二千石已下至三百石十一人。
translation: 
From the Huo people to Yunzhong, Fan Kuai, Jianghou Zhoubo and others jointly pacified it, so an additional 1,500 households were added.
Later, Fan Kuai led his troops to attack the armies of the rebels Chen Xi and Manqiuchen, and fought in Xiangguo. When he captured Bairen County, he took the lead in ascending the city. He also surrendered and pacified twenty-seven counties in Qinghe and Changshan counties, and destroyed Dongyuan County. He was promoted to Prime Minister Zuo for his merits.
In Wujing and Guangchang, he defeated the armies of Qi Wuyan and Yin Pan and captured them alive.
In the south of Daidi, the army led by the Hu general Wang Huang under Chen Xi was defeated. Then, he marched to join forces and attacked Han Wangxin's army. Fan Kuai's men killed Han Wangxin.
In Henggu, Chen Xi's Hu cavalry troops were defeated, general Zhao Ji was killed, and ten people including the Prime Minister Han Liang, the governor Sun Fen, the general Wang Huang, Tai Pu Xie and the general were captured.
Together with the generals, he pacified seventy-three villages and towns in Dai.
After that, King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled. Fan Kuai led the army to attack Lu Wan as prime minister, defeated the army led by Prime Minister Lu Wan in the south of Jixian County, and pacified a total of 18 counties and 51 townships in Yan.
So Emperor Gaozu gave Fan Kuai an additional 1,300 households, confirming that he would be the Marquis of Wuyang with a total of 5,400 households.
When Fan Kuai followed Gaozu in the battle, he beheaded 176 enemies and captured 188 enemy soldiers.
He led the troops to fight alone, defeated seven enemy armies, captured five cities, pacified six counties and fifty-two counties, and captured one enemy prime minister, 12 generals, and 11 officials ranging from 2,000 to 300 shi.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
哙以吕后女弟吕须为妇，生子伉，故其比诸将最亲。
先黥布反时，高祖尝病甚，恶见人，卧禁中，诏户者无得入群臣。
群臣绛、灌等莫敢入。
十馀日，哙乃排闼直入，大臣随之。
上独枕一宦者卧。
哙等见上流涕曰： 始陛下与臣等起丰沛，定天下，何其壮也！
今天下已定，又何惫也！
且陛下病甚，大臣震恐，不见臣等计事，顾独与一宦者绝乎？
且陛下独不见赵高之事乎？
高帝笑而起。
其後卢绾反，高帝使哙以相国击燕。
是时高帝病甚，人有恶哙党於吕氏，即上一日宫车晏驾，则哙欲以兵尽诛灭戚氏、赵王如意之属。
高帝闻之大怒，乃使陈平载绛侯代将，而即军中斩哙。
陈平畏吕后，执哙诣长安。
translation: 
Because Fan Kuai married Empress Lu's sister Lu Xu and gave birth to a son, Mr. and Mrs. Fan, Gaozu was closer to Fan Kuai than other generals.
During the Yingbu rebellion, Gaozu was very ill and hated seeing people. He lay in the palace confinement and ordered the gatekeepers not to let the officials in to see him.
Among the officials, such as Jianghou Zhou Bo, Guan Ying and others did not dare to enter the palace.
After more than ten days of this, Fan Kuai once pushed open the palace door and rushed in, followed closely by the officials.
I saw Gaozu lying alone with a eunuch on his pillow.
After Fan Kuai and others saw the emperor, they cried bitterly and said: I think your majesty joined us in raising troops from Fengpei to pacify the world. What a feat it was!
And now that the world has settled down, how exhausted you are!
Besides, you are seriously ill, the ministers are panicking, and you are unwilling to meet us to discuss state affairs. Do you just want to decide with a eunuch?
Besides, haven't you seen anything about Zhao Gao?
After hearing this, Emperor Gaozu smiled and got up from the bed.
Later, Lu Wan rebelled, and Gaozu ordered Fan Kuai to attack Yan as prime minister.
At this time, Emperor Gaozu was very ill again. Some people slandered Fan Kuai and the Lu family for forming a party. If the emperor died one day, Fan Kuai would lead his troops to kill Madam Qi and King Zhao Ruyi.
When Emperor Gaozu heard about it, he became furious and immediately ordered Chen Ping to drive Jianghou Zhou Bo in a chariot to replace Fan Kuai, and immediately beheaded Fan Kuai in the army.
Because Chen Ping was afraid of Empress Lu, he did not carry out Gaozu's order, but sent Fan Kuai to Chang'an.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
至则高祖已崩，吕后释哙，使复爵邑。
孝惠六年，樊哙卒，谥为武侯。
子伉代侯。
而伉母吕须亦为临光侯，高后时用事专权，大臣尽畏之。
伉代侯九岁，高后崩。
大臣诛诸吕、吕须婘属，因诛伉。
舞阳侯中绝数月。
孝文帝既立，乃复封哙他庶子市人为舞阳侯，复故爵邑。
市人立二十九岁卒，谥为荒侯。
子他广代侯。
六岁，侯家舍人得罪他广，怨之，乃上书曰： 荒侯市人病不能为人，令其夫人与其弟乱而生他广，他广实非荒侯子，不当代後。
诏下吏。
孝景中六年，他广夺侯为庶人，国除。
曲周侯郦商者，高阳人。
translation: 
When they arrived in Chang'an, Gaozu had passed away, so Empress Lu released Fan Kuai and restored his title and fiefdom.
In the sixth year of Emperor Hui of the Han Dynasty, Fan Kuai passed away, and his posthumous title was Marquis Wu.
His son Mr. and Mrs. Fan replaced him as marquis.
Fan's mother, Lu Xu, was also named Linguang Hou. When Gao Hou was in power, Lu Xu was also in charge of political affairs and was very arbitrary. All ministers were afraid of her.
In the ninth year when Fan and his wife were the Marquis of Wuyang, Empress Gao passed away.
The ministers killed the Lu family and Lu Xu's relatives, and then killed Fan and his wife.
The title of Marquis of Wuyang was suspended for several months.
When Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty came to the throne, Fan Shi, the son of Fan Kuai's concubine, was granted the title of Marquis of Wuyang, and his original title and fiefdom were restored.
Fan Shi died after reigning for twenty-nine years, and his posthumous title was Huanghou.
His son Fan Taguang succeeded to the throne.
Six years later, some members of Wuyanghou's family offended Fan Taguang and resented him very much. So he wrote a letter saying: A man in Huanghou City lost his fertility because of illness, so he let his wife have fornication with his brother and gave birth to him. In fact, he is not the son of Huang Hou, so he should not inherit the throne.
The emperor ordered the matter to be handed over to officials for trial.
In the sixth year of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, Fan Taguang's title was abolished, he was demoted to a commoner, and the feudal state and food towns were also removed.
Li Shang, the Marquis of Quzhou, was from Gaoyang.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
陈胜起时，商聚少年东西略人，得数千。
沛公略地至陈留，六月馀，商以将卒四千人属沛公於岐。
从攻长社，先登，赐爵封信成君。
从沛公攻缑氏，绝河津，破秦军洛阳东。
从攻下宛、穰，定十七县。
别将攻旬关，定汉中。
项羽灭秦，立沛公为汉王。
汉王赐商爵信成君，以将军为陇西都尉。
别将定北地、上郡。
破雍将军焉氏，周类军栒邑，苏駔军於泥阳。
赐食邑武成六千户。
以陇西都尉从击项籍军五月，出钜野，与锺离眛战，疾斗，受梁相国印，益食邑四千户。
以梁相国将从击项羽二岁三月，攻胡陵。
translation: 
When Chen Sheng rebelled against Qin, he gathered a group of young people and recruited thousands of people.
Peigong attacked the city and captured the territory and came to Chenliu. More than six months later, Li Shang led more than 4,000 soldiers to Qitou and returned to Peigong.
He followed Pei Gong to attack Changshe and took the lead in ascending the city. Pei Gong conferred a title on him and named him Xinchengjun.
Following Pei Gong, he attacked the Feng family, blocked the Yellow River ferry, and defeated the Qin army east of Luoyang.
Following Pei Gong, he captured Wan and Rang, and also pacified seventeen counties.
He led an army to attack Xunwu alone and pacified Hanzhong.
After Xiang Yu destroyed Qin, he established Peigong as King of Han.
The King of Han bestowed upon Li Shangxin the title of Lord and made him the Captain of Longxi with the rank of general.
Li Shang led his army alone to pacify Beidi and Shangjun.
They defeated the army led by King Yong Zhanghan at Yanshi, defeated the army led by Zhou Lei at Yiyi, and defeated the army led by Su Zao at Niyang.
So the king of Han gave Li Shang 6,000 households in Wucheng County as his food town.
As the captain of Longxi, he followed the Duke of Pei to attack Xiang Yu's army for five months. He sent troops to Juye and fought with Zhong Limei. For his meritorious service in the fierce battle, the Duke of Pei granted him the seal of Liang Guoxiang and granted him 4,000 additional households.
During the battle of Longtuo, Li Shang charged into the battle, took the lead in ascending the city, and defeated Zang Tu's army in Yixia.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
项羽既已死，汉王为帝。其秋，燕王臧荼反，商以将军从击荼，战龙脱，先登陷阵，破荼军易下，卻敌，迁为右丞相，赐爵列侯，与诸侯剖符，世世勿绝，食邑涿五千户，号曰涿侯。以右丞相别定上谷，因攻代，受赵相国印。
以右丞相赵相国别与绛侯等定代、雁门，得代丞相程纵、守相郭同、将军已下至六百石十九人。
还，以将军为太上皇卫一岁七月。
以右丞相击陈豨，残东垣。
又以右丞相从高帝击黥布，攻其前拒，陷两陈，得以破布军，更食曲周五千一百户，除前所食，凡别破军三，降定郡六，县七十三，得丞相、守相、大将各一人，小将二人，二千石已下至六百石十九人。
商事孝惠、高后时，商病，不治。
其子寄，字况，与吕禄善。
及高后崩，大臣欲诛诸吕，吕禄为将军，军於北军，太尉勃不得入北军，於是乃使人劫郦商，令其子况绐吕禄，吕禄信之，故与出游，而太尉勃乃得入据北军，遂诛诸吕。是岁商卒，谥为景侯。
子寄代侯。天下称郦况卖交也。
孝景前三年，吴、楚、齐、赵反，上以寄为将军，围赵城，十月不能下。
得俞侯栾布自平齐来，乃下赵城，灭赵，王自杀，除国。
孝景中二年，寄欲取平原君为夫人，景帝怒，下寄吏，有罪，夺侯。
景帝乃以商他子坚封为缪侯，续郦氏後。
缪靖侯卒，子康侯遂成立。
遂成卒，子怀侯世宗立。
世宗卒，子侯终根立，为太常，坐法，国除。
translation: 
Because of his meritorious service in killing the enemy, he was promoted to the right prime minister, and was given the title of a lord. Like other princes, he cut the talisman as a letter, and it will never be extinguished from generation to generation. He took the five thousand households in Zhuoyi as his food town and was titled Zhuohou. As prime minister on the right, he led troops to pacify Shanggu alone, and then attacked Dai. Gaozu granted him the seal of the prime minister of Zhao.
As the Prime Minister of the Right and the Prime Minister of the State of Zhao, he led his troops, together with Jianghou Zhou Bo and others, to pacify Dai Heyanmen, and captured alive the Prime Minister of Dai Cheng Zong, the Prime Minister Guo Tong, and a total of 19 officials ranging from generals to 600 shi.
After the victory, he served as the bodyguard of the Supreme Emperor as a general for one year and seven months.
Then he used his position as Prime Minister You to attack Chen Xi and destroy the Dongyuan city wall.
As Prime Minister of the Right, he followed Emperor Gao to attack the rebellious Yingbu. Li Shang led his troops to storm the enemy's forward positions and captured two positions, allowing the Han army to defeat Yingbu's army. Emperor Gao changed his fiefdom to Quzhou, increasing it to 5,100 households, and took back the food fiefdoms he had previously granted. In total, Li Shang defeated three enemy armies, surrendered and pacified six counties and seventy-three counties, and captured the prime minister, the prime minister, one general each, two junior generals, and nineteen officials ranging from 2,000 shi to 600 shi.
Li Shang was serving Xiaohui. When he was a queen, he was unable to take care of political affairs due to poor health.
His son Li Ji was very close to Lu Lu.
In this year, Li Shang passed away, and his posthumous title was Jinghou.
His son Li Ji succeeded to the throne, and everyone in the world said that he had betrayed his friends.
In the third year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, the vassal states of Wu, Chu, Qi, and Zhao jointly rebelled. The emperor appointed Li Ji as general and besieged Zhao City, but it was not conquered for ten months.
After Yu Hou Luanbu pacified the Qi State and came to help in the war, he took the city of Zhao and wiped out the Zhao State. King Liu Sui of Zhao committed suicide and the feudal state was abolished.
In the second year of Emperor Jing's reign, Li Ji planned to marry Pingyuan Jun, the mother of Emperor Jing and his wife. Emperor Jing was furious and handed Li Ji over to judicial officials for trial. He was found guilty and deprived of his title of marquis.
Emperor Jing named Li Shang's other son Li Jian the Marquis of Mu to continue the Li family's descendants.
After the death of Miao Jinghou Li Jian, his son Kanghou Li Suicheng succeeded to the throne.
After Li Suicheng died, his son Huaihou Li Shizong succeeded to the throne.
After the death of Li Shizong, his son Li Zhonggen inherited the throne and served as Taichang. Later, the feudal state was revoked because of breaking the law.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
汝阴侯夏侯婴，沛人也。
为沛厩司御。
每送使客还，过沛泗上亭，与高祖语，未尝不移日也。
婴已而试补县吏，与高祖相爱。
高祖戏而伤婴，人有告高祖。
高祖时为亭长，重坐伤人，告故不伤婴，婴证之。
後狱覆，婴坐高祖系岁馀，掠笞数百，终以是脱高祖。
高祖之初与徒属欲攻沛也，婴时以县令史为高祖使。
上降沛一日，高祖为沛公，赐婴爵七大夫，以为太仆。
从攻胡陵，婴与萧何降泗水监平，平以胡陵降，赐婴爵五大夫。
从击秦军砀东，攻济阳，下户牖，破李由军雍丘下，以兵车趣攻战疾，赐爵执帛。
translation: 
Xia Houying, Marquis of Ruyin, was from Peixian County.
He began to take charge of horse breeding and driving in the stable of Peixian County.
Whenever he drove back after seeing off envoys or guests, he would go to Sishang Pavilion in Peixian County to chat with Gaozu, and they would chat for most of the day.
Later, Xia Houying served as a probationary county official and became closer to Gao Zu.
Once, Gaozu accidentally injured Xia Houying because of a joke, and was reported to the government.
At that time, Gaozu was the chief of the pavilion, and he had to be severely punished if he hurt someone. Therefore, Gaozu complained that he had not harmed Xia Houying, and Xia Houying also proved that he had not been harmed.
Later, the case was reversed. Xia Houying was imprisoned for more than a year because of Gao Zu's involvement, and received hundreds of slaps. However, Gao Zu was eventually exempted from punishment.
When Gaozu led his disciples to attack Pei County, Xia Houying contacted Gaozu as a subordinate official of the county magistrate.
On the day Gaozu surrendered to Peixian County, Gaozu made him Duke of Pei, gave Xia Houying the title of Seventh Doctor, and appointed him as his imperial servant.
When following Gaozu to attack Hu Ling, Xia Houying and Xiao He surrendered to Sishui County Supervisor Ping. Ping handed over Hu Ling and surrendered. Gaozu gave Xia Houying the title of fifth doctor.
He followed Gaozu to attack the Qin army east of Dang County, attacked Jiyang, captured Hufu, and defeated Li You's army in the Yongqiu area. During the battle, he drove a chariot to attack quickly and fought bravely. Gaozu gave him the title of silk guard.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
常以太仆奉车从击章邯军东阿、濮阳下，以兵车趣攻战疾，破之，赐爵执珪。
复常奉车从击赵贲军开封，杨熊军曲遇。
婴从捕虏六十八人，降卒八百五十人，得印一匮。
因复常奉车从击秦军雒阳东，以兵车趣攻战疾，赐爵封转为滕公。
因复奉车从攻南阳，战於蓝田、芷阳，以兵车趣攻战疾，至霸上。
项羽至，灭秦，立沛公为汉王。
汉王赐婴爵列侯，号昭平侯，复为太仆，从入蜀、汉。
还定三秦，从击项籍。
至彭城，项羽大破汉军。
汉王败，不利，驰去。
见孝惠、鲁元，载之。汉王急，马罢，虏在後，常蹶两兒欲弃之，婴常收，竟载之，徐行面雍树乃驰。汉王怒，行欲斩婴者十馀，卒得脱，而致孝惠、鲁元於丰。
汉王既至荥阳，收散兵，复振，赐婴食祈阳。
复常奉车从击项籍，追至陈，卒定楚，至鲁，益食兹氏。汉王立为帝。
其秋，燕王臧荼反，婴以太仆从击荼。
明年，从至陈，取楚王信。
translation: 
Xia Houying also used his position as a servant to command chariots and follow Gaozu to attack Zhang Han in Dong'a and Puyang. During the battle, he drove chariots to attack Zhang Han quickly. He fought bravely and defeated the Qin army. Gaozu gave him the title of Zhigui.
He also commanded military chariots to follow Emperor Gaozu in attacking Zhao Ben's army in Kaifeng, and in Quyu he attacked Yang Xiong's army.
During the battle, Xia Houying captured 68 people, surrendered 850 soldiers, and seized a box of gold seals.
Then he commanded military chariots to follow Gaozu to attack the Qin army east of Luoyang. He drove into the battle and fought hard, and Gao Zu granted him the title of Duke Teng.
Then he commanded the chariots to follow Gaozu to attack Nanyang. In the battles at Lantian and Zhiyang, he drove the chariots to fight bravely and fought bravely until he reached Bashang.
After Xiang Yu entered the Pass, he destroyed the Qin Dynasty and made Peigong King of Han.
The King of Han bestowed upon Xiahou Ying the title of Marquis of Zhaoping. He also took the position of Taiwen and followed the King of Han into the Shu and Han regions.
Later, the King of Han returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, and Xia Houying followed the King of Han to attack Xiang Yu's army.
Marching into Pengcheng, the Han army was severely defeated by Xiang Yu.
The king of Han was defeated and fled quickly on his chariot and horse.
Xia Houying drove the car, walking slowly at first, and then drove quickly after the two frightened children hugged his neck tightly. The King of Han was very angry about this and wanted to kill Xia Houying more than ten times, but he finally escaped from danger and sent Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan to Fengyi safe and sound.
After the King of Han arrived at Xingyang, he collected the defeated army and regained its military power. The King of Han gave Qiyang to Xiahou Ying as a food town.
After that, Xia Houying commanded the chariots to follow the King of Han to attack Xiang Yu, pursuing them all the way to Chen County, and finally pacified Chu. When he reached the land of Lu, the king of Han added another county of Zishi to him as a food town.
In the autumn of the year when the king of Han became emperor, Zang Tu, the king of Yan, rebelled. Xia Houying followed Emperor Gao as a servant to attack Zang Tu.
The next year, he followed Emperor Gao to Chen County and arrested King Han Xin of Chu.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
更食汝阴，剖符世世勿绝。
以太仆从击代，至武泉、云中，益食千户。
因从击韩信军胡骑晋阳旁，大破之。
追北至平城，为胡所围，七日不得通。
高帝使使厚遗阏氏，冒顿开围一角。
高帝出欲驰，婴固徐行，弩皆持满外向，卒得脱。
益食婴细阳千户。
复以太仆从击胡骑句注北，大破之。
以太仆击胡骑平城南，三陷陈，功为多，赐所夺邑五百户。
以太仆击陈豨、黥布军，陷陈卻敌，益食千户，定食汝阴六千九百户，除前所食。
婴自上初起沛，常为太仆，竟高祖崩。
translation: 
Emperor Gao changed the title of Xia Houying's food to Ruyin and cut the talisman into a letter so that the title could be passed down from generation to generation.
He also used his position as a servant to follow Emperor Gao to attack Daidi, and fought as far as Wuquan and Yunzhong. Emperor Gao gave him an additional 1,000 households.
Then he followed the King of Han to the vicinity of Jinyang and defeated the Huns cavalry belonging to Han Xin.
When chasing the defeated troops to Pingcheng, they were surrounded by Huns cavalry and were trapped for seven days without being able to escape.
Later, Emperor Gao sent people to give many gifts to the Queen of the Xiongnu King Maodun, and then the Xiongnu King Modu opened a corner of the encirclement.
As soon as Gaodi escaped from the siege and came out of Pingcheng, he wanted to drive away quickly. Xia Houying resolutely stopped the carriage and horses and walked slowly, ordering the archers to draw their bows fully and draw outwards. Finally, they were out of danger.
With this merit, Emperor Gao granted Xiahou Ying a title to a thousand households in Xiyang as a food town.
He also followed Emperor Gao as a servant to attack the Huns cavalry in the area north of Gouzhu Mountain and won a great victory.
As a servant, he attacked the Huns cavalry in the south of Pingcheng and broke through the enemy's formation many times. He made the most contributions. Emperor Gao gave him 500 households in the captured city as food.
He also used his position as a servant to attack the rebel armies of Chen Xun and Yingbu. He charged into battle and repelled the enemy troops. He also granted a settlement to a thousand households. Finally, the emperor designated Xia Houying's food town in Ruyin, with a total of 6,900 households, and revoked other food towns that had been sealed before.
Xia Houying followed Emperor Gao to raise troops in Peixian County and served as a servant for a long time until Emperor Gao's death.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
以太仆事孝惠。
孝惠帝及高后德婴之脱孝惠、鲁元於下邑之间也，乃赐婴县北第第一，曰 近我 ，以尊异之。
孝惠帝崩，以太仆事高后。
高后崩，代王之来，婴以太仆与东牟侯入清宫，废少帝，以天子法驾迎代王代邸，与大臣共立为孝文皇帝，复为太仆。
八岁卒，谥为文侯。
子夷侯灶立，七年卒。
子共侯赐立，三十一年卒。
子侯颇尚平阳公主。立十九岁，元鼎二年，坐与父御婢奸罪，自杀，国除。
颍阴侯灌婴者，睢阳贩缯者也。
translation: 
Later, he served Emperor Xiaohui as a royal servant.
Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Lu were very grateful to Xia Houying for rescuing Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan on the road to Xiayi, so they gave him a first-class mansion close to the north of the palace, named "near me", which meant that he could be closest to me, and expressed their special respect for Xia Houying.
After the death of Emperor Xiaohui, he served the Empress Gao as a servant.
When Empress Gao passed away and King Dai came to the capital, Xia Houying went to the palace as a servant to clean up the palace together with Dongmou Hou Liu Xingju, deposed the young emperor, and used the emperor's method to drive to the palace of King Dai to welcome King Dai. Together with the ministers, he established King Dai as Emperor Xiaowen.
He died eight years later and was given the posthumous title Wenhou.
His son Yihou Xiahou Zao succeeded to the throne and died seven years later.
His son, Gonghou Xiahouci, inherited the title and died thirty-one years later.
His son Xia Houpo married Princess Pingyang. In the 19th year after he inherited the throne, that is, the second year of Yuanding, he committed adultery with his father's maid and committed suicide in fear of crime. The feudal state was also revoked.
Yingyinhou Guanying was originally a small businessman selling silk silk in Suiyang.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
高祖之为沛公，略地至雍丘下，章邯败杀项梁，而沛公还军於砀，婴初以中涓从击破东郡尉於成武及秦军於扛里，疾斗，赐爵七大夫。
从攻秦军亳南、开封、曲遇，战疾力，赐爵执帛，号宣陵君。
从攻阳武以西至雒阳，破秦军尸北，北绝河津，南破南阳守齮阳城东，遂定南阳郡。
西入武关，战於蓝田，疾力，至霸上，赐爵执珪，号昌文君。
沛公立为汉王，拜婴为郎中，从入汉中，十月，拜为中谒者。
从还定三秦，下栎阳，降塞王。
还围章邯於废丘，未拔。
从东出临晋关，击降殷王，定其地。
击项羽将龙且、魏相项他军定陶南，疾战，破之。
赐婴爵列侯，号昌文侯，食杜平乡。
复以中谒者从降下砀，以至彭城。
translation: 
When Emperor Gaozu had just raised an army to rebel against Qin and established himself as Pei Gong, he conquered the city and came to Yongqiu City. Zhang Han defeated Xiang Liang and killed him. The Duke of Pei also retreated to the Dang County area. Guan Ying followed the Duke of Pei as the official in charge of the chamberlain. He defeated the army of the Dongjun prefect in Chengwu and the Qin army stationed in Gangli. Because of his bravery in killing the enemy, he was awarded the title of Seventh Doctor.
Later, he followed Pei Gong to fight the Qin army in the south of Bo County, Kaifeng and Quyu. Because of his hard fighting, he was given the title of Zhibo and was named Xuanling Lord.
He then followed Pei Gong to fight the Qin army from the west of Yangwu to Luoyang, defeated the Qin army in the area north of Xixiang, and then cut off the Yellow River ferry to the north. Then he led his troops southward and defeated the army of Nanyang County Governor Lu  east of Nanyang County, thus pacifying Nanyang County.
Going further west, he entered Wuguan and fought with the Qin army in Lantian. Because of his bravery and fighting, he fought all the way to Ba Shang, and was given the title of Zhigui and was named Changwenjun.
After Pei Gong was named King of Han, the King of Han worshiped Guan Ying as a doctor. He followed the King of Han to march into Hanzhong, and in October, he was appointed as the Visitor of the Middle Kingdom.
Following the King of Han, he returned to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, captured Yueyang, and surrendered to the King of Sai, Sima Xin.
The returning army surrounded Zhang Han again at Feiqiu, but failed to capture it.
Later, he followed the King of Han eastward to Linjin Pass, surrendered to King Dong Yi of Yin, and pacified the area under his jurisdiction.
In the area south of Dingtao, he fought with Xiang Yu's subordinate Long Qie and Wei Prime Minister Xiang Ta's army. After a fierce struggle, he finally defeated the enemy.
Due to his meritorious service, he was given the title of Marquis of the Marquis and was named Marquis of Changwen. Pingxiang in Du County was granted the title of his food town.
Later, as a visitor, he followed the King of Han to capture Dang County and marched into Pengcheng.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
项羽击，大破汉王。
汉王遁而西，婴从还，军於雍丘。
王武、魏公申徒反，从击破之。
攻下黄，西收兵，军於荥阳。
楚骑来众，汉王乃择军中可为骑将者，皆推故秦骑士重泉人李必、骆甲习骑兵，今为校尉，可为骑将。
汉王欲拜之，必、甲曰： 臣故秦民，恐军不信臣，臣原得大王左右善骑者傅之。
灌婴虽少，然数力战，乃拜灌婴为中大夫，令李必、骆甲为左右校尉，将郎中骑兵击楚骑於荥阳东，大破之。
受诏别击楚军後，绝其饷道，起阳武至襄邑。
击项羽之将项冠於鲁下，破之，所将卒斩右司马、骑将各一人。
击破柘公王武，军於燕西，所将卒斩楼烦将五人，连尹一人。
击王武别将桓婴白马下，破之，所将卒斩都尉一人。
以骑渡河南，送汉王到雒阳，使北迎相国韩信军於邯郸。
translation: 
Xiang Yu led the army to attack and defeated the king of Han.
The King of Han fled westward, and Guan Ying retreated with the King of Han and stationed himself at Yongqiu.
Wang Wu and Wei Gong Shen Tu rebelled, and Guan Ying followed the King of Han to attack and defeated them.
After conquering Waihuang, he recruited soldiers to the west and stationed himself in Xingyang.
Xiang Yu's army came to attack again, and there were many cavalry among them. The king of Han selected people in the army who could serve as cavalry generals. Everyone recommended Li Bi and Luo Jia from Chongquan, the former knights of the Qin Dynasty.
The King of Han was about to appoint them, but the two of them said: We are originally Qin people, and I am afraid that the army sergeants think we are unreliable, so please appoint someone who is always by your side and is good at riding and shooting as our leader.
Although Guan Ying was young at that time, he fought bravely in many battles, so he was appointed as the middle doctor, and Li Bi and Luo Jia were appointed as the left and right captains. He led the Langzhong cavalry to fight the Chu cavalry east of Xingyang, and defeated the Chu army.
On the order of the King of Han, he led an army alone to attack the rear of the Chu army, cutting off the Chu army's food supply line from Yangwu to Xiangyi.
In the area of ​​​​the Lu State, they defeated the army of General Xiang Guan of Xiang Yu. His soldiers killed the Chu Army's You Sima and one of his cavalry officers.
After defeating Duke Zhe and Wang Wu, the army was stationed in the western area of ​​​​Yan State. The soldiers under his command killed five generals from Lou Fan and one from Lian Yin.
Near Baima, Wang Wu's general Huan Ying was defeated, and the soldiers under his command killed one of the captains.
He also led the cavalry to cross the Yellow River south and escorted the King of Han to Luoyang. Then the King of Han sent Guan Ying to Handan to meet the troops of the Prime Minister Han Xin.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
还至敖仓，婴迁为御史大夫。
三年，以列侯食邑杜平乡。
以御史大夫受诏将郎中骑兵东属相国韩信，击破齐军於历下，所将卒虏车骑将军华毋伤及将吏四十六人。
降下临菑，得齐守相田光。
追齐相田横至嬴、博，破其骑，所将卒斩骑将一人，生得骑将四人。
攻下嬴、博，破齐将军田吸於千乘，所将卒斩吸。
东从韩信攻龙且、留公旋於高密，卒斩龙且，生得右司马、连尹各一人，楼烦将十人，身生得亚将周兰。
齐地已定，韩信自立为齐王，使婴别将击楚将公杲於鲁北，破之。
转南，破薛郡长，身虏骑将一人。
攻阳，前至下相以东南僮、取虑、徐。
度淮，尽降其城邑，至广陵。
项羽使项声、薛公、郯公复定淮北。
婴度淮北，击破项声、郯公下邳，斩薛公，下下邳，击破楚骑於平阳，遂降彭城，虏柱国项佗，降留、薛、沛、酂、萧、相。
攻苦、谯，复得亚将周兰。
translation: 
When he returned to Aocang, he was promoted to the imperial censor.
In the third year of the Han Dynasty, Guan Ying obtained the Shiyi Ping Township of Du County with the title of Liehou.
Later, as a royal censor, he led the Langzhong cavalry, subordinate to the prime minister Han Xin, and defeated the Qi army in Lixia. The soldiers he led captured the chariot general Hua Wu and injured 46 generals.
He forced the enemy soldiers to surrender, captured Linyi, and captured Qi's defense minister Tian Guang alive.
He also pursued the Qi State Prime Minister Guotian Heng to Ying and Bo, defeated the Qi State cavalry, and the soldiers he led beheaded one Qi State cavalry general and captured four of the Qi State cavalry generals alive.
He conquered Ying and Bo, and defeated Qi general Tian Sui in Qiancheng. His soldiers beheaded Tian Sui.
Then he followed Han Xin and led his troops eastward, attacking Long Qie and Liu Gongxuan's troops in Gaomi. The soldiers they led beheaded Long Qie, captured You Sima alive, one person each from Lian Yin, and ten generals from Lou Fan. He himself captured Zhou Lan alive.
After Qi was pacified, Han Xin proclaimed himself King of Qi and sent Guan Ying to lead an army alone to the north of Lu to attack Chu General Gong Gao's army and achieved a complete victory.
Guan Ying sent his troops south, defeated the army led by the Xue County Sheriff, and personally captured one of the cavalrymen.
Then they attacked Fu Yang, marched to Tongcheng southeast of Xiangxiang, and took the area around Li and Xucheng.
After crossing the Huaihe River, they conquered all the cities in Huainan and then arrived at Guangling.
Later, Xiang Yu sent Xiang Sheng, Duke Xue and Duke Tan to regain Huaibei.
So Guan Ying crossed the Huaihe River and went north, defeated Xiang Sheng and Tan Gong in Xiapi, beheaded Xue Gong, and captured Xiapi. Defeated the Chu cavalry at Pingyang, then surrendered Pengcheng, captured Xiang Tuo, the pillar state of Chu, and surrendered the counties of Liu, Xue, Pei, Feng, Xiao, and Peng.
Attacked Kuxian and Qiaoxian, and captured the general Zhou Lan again.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
与汉王会颐乡。
从击项籍军於陈下，破之，所将卒斩楼烦将二人，虏骑将八人。
赐益食邑二千五百户。
项籍败垓下去也，婴以御史大夫受诏将车骑别追项籍至东城，破之。
所将卒五人共斩项籍，皆赐爵列侯。
降左右司马各一人，卒万二千人，尽得其军将吏。
下东城、历阳。渡江，破吴郡长吴下，得吴守，遂定吴、豫章、会稽郡。
还定淮北，凡五十二县。
汉王立为皇帝，赐益婴邑三千户。
其秋，以车骑将军从击破燕王臧荼。
明年，从至陈，取楚王信。
还，剖符，世世勿绝，食颍阴二千五百户，号曰颍阴侯。
translation: 
Then he met the King of Han in Yixiang.
Following the King of Han, he defeated Xiang Yu's army in Chen County. The soldiers he led killed two generals and captured eight generals.
The king of Han gave 2,500 additional households to the infants.
Xiang Yu was defeated at Gaixia, and then broke out and escaped. At this time, Guan Ying, as a censor, was ordered by the King of Han to lead the cavalry troops to pursue Xiang Yu and completely defeated him in the east city.
The five soldiers he led jointly killed Xiang Yu, and they were all named princes.
He also surrendered one man each from the left and right sima, and 12,000 soldiers, and captured all the generals and officials in Xiang Yu's army.
Then, they captured Dongcheng and Liyang, crossed the Yangtze River, defeated the army led by the Wu County Sheriff in the Wu County area, and captured the Wu County Sheriff. In this way, the three counties of Wu, Yuzhang and Kuaiji were pacified.
Then he returned to the army and pacified the Huaibei area, a total of fifty-two counties.
After the King of Han established him as emperor, he granted Guan Ying three thousand households a new settlement.
In the autumn of this year, he followed Emperor Gao as a chariot general and defeated the army of King Zang Tu of Yan.
The next year, he followed Emperor Gao to Chen County and arrested King Han Xin of Chu.
After returning to the dynasty, Emperor Gao cut the talisman into a letter and made it immortal from generation to generation. He granted the 2,500 households in Yingyin to Guanying as a food town and named him the Marquis of Yingyin.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
以车骑将军从击反韩王信於代，至马邑，受诏别降楼烦以北六县，斩代左相，破胡骑於武泉北。
复从击韩信胡骑晋阳下，所将卒斩胡白题将一人。
受诏并将燕、赵、齐、梁、楚车骑，击破胡骑於硰石。
至平城，为胡所围，从还军东垣。
从击陈豨，受诏别攻豨丞相侯敞军曲逆下，破之，卒斩敞及特将五人。
降曲逆、卢奴、上曲阳、安国、安平。攻下东垣。
黥布反，以车骑将军先出，攻布别将於相，破之，斩亚将楼烦将三人。
又进击破布上柱国军及大司马军。
又进破布别将肥诛。婴身生得左司马一人，所将卒斩其小将十人，追北至淮上。
益食二千五百户。
translation: 
After that, Guan Ying followed Emperor Gao to Dai as a cavalry general to attack the rebel King Xin of Han. When he arrived in Mayi, he was ordered by the emperor to lead his army to surrender the six counties north of Loufan, beheaded the Prime Minister Zuo of Dai, and defeated the Huns cavalry north of Wuquan.
He also followed Emperor Gao to attack the Xiongnu cavalry belonging to King Xin of Han in the Jinyang area. The soldiers he commanded killed one of the Xiongnu general Bai Ti.
Emperor Qin ordered the cavalry troops from Yan, Zhao, Qi, Liang, Chu and other countries to be led together, and defeated the Xiongnu cavalry at Qianshi.
When they arrived at Pingcheng, they were surrounded by a large army of Huns. They followed Emperor Gao back to Dongyuan.
When following Emperor Gao to attack Chen Xi, Guan Ying received the emperor's order to attack Chen Xi's Prime Minister Hou Chang's army alone in the Quni area, and defeated the enemy. The soldiers he led killed Hou Chang and five special generals.
Qu Ni, Lu Nu, Shang Quyang were surrendered, Anguo and Anping were conquered, and Dongyuan was conquered.
When Yingbu rebelled, Guan Ying led his army as a general of chariots and cavalry. In Xiangxian County, he defeated the army of general Yingbu and killed three generals, Yajiang and Loufan.
Then he marched to attack the army of Zhuguo in Yingbu and the army of Da Sima.
He then marched and defeated the army of Ying Bubie general Feizhu. Guan Ying personally captured Zuo Sima alive, and led his soldiers to kill ten of his junior generals. He pursued the enemy's defeated general's remnants all the way to the banks of the Huaihe River.
Therefore, the emperor gave him another 2,500 households.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
布已破，高帝归，定令婴食颖阴五千户，除前所食邑。
凡从得二千石二人，别破军十六，降城四十六，定国一，郡二，县五十二，得将军二人，柱国、相国各一人，二千石十人。
婴自破布归，高帝崩，婴以列侯事孝惠帝及吕太后。
太后崩，吕禄等以赵王自置为将军，军长安，为乱。
齐哀王闻之，举兵西，且入诛不当为王者。
上将军吕禄等闻之，乃遣婴为大将，将军往击之。
婴行至荥阳，乃与绛侯等谋，因屯兵荥阳，风齐王以诛吕氏事，齐兵止不前。
绛侯等既诛诸吕，齐王罢兵归，婴亦罢兵自荥阳归，与绛侯、陈平共立代王为孝文皇帝。
孝文皇帝於是益封婴三千户，赐黄金千斤，拜为太尉。
三岁，绛侯勃免相就国，婴为丞相，罢太尉官。
是岁，匈奴大入北地、上郡，令丞相婴将骑八万五千往击匈奴。
匈奴去，济北王反，诏乃罢婴之兵。
後岁馀，婴以丞相卒，谥曰懿侯。
translation: 
After the Taing Bu was pacified, Emperor Gaozu returned to the court and determined that Guanying's food towns in Yingyin totaled 5,000 households, and revoked the food towns previously sealed.
In all the previous battles, Guan Ying accompanied Gaodi to capture two officials worth two thousand stone. In addition, he led his troops to defeat sixteen enemy armies, surrendered forty-six cities, pacified one vassal state, two commanderies, and fifty-two counties. He captured two generals, one each from the Zhu State and the Prime Minister, and ten officials worth two thousand stone.
When Guan Ying defeated Ying Bu and returned to the capital, Emperor Gao died. Guan Ying served Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Dowager Lu as a marquis.
After the death of the Queen Mother, Lu Lu and others appointed themselves generals as King Zhao and garrisoned Chang'an in an attempt to launch a rebellion.
After Liu Xiang, King Ai of Qi, learned of this, he sent troops westward to the capital, saying that he would kill those who should not be kings.
After General Lu Lu and others heard about it, they sent Guan Ying as a general to lead the army to stop the attack.
When Guan Ying came to Xingyang, he discussed with Jianghou Zhou Bo and others and decided to temporarily station the army in Xingyang. He secretly signaled to King Ai of Qi that he was ready to kill Lu, so the Qi soldiers stopped advancing.
After Jianghou Zhou Bo and others killed Zhu Lu, the King of Qi withdrew his troops and returned to his fiefdom. Guan Ying also withdrew his troops from Xingyang and returned to the capital. Together with Zhou Bo and Chen Ping, he established Dai Wang as Emperor Xiaowen.
Emperor Xiaowen then granted Guan Ying a land of 3,000 households, gave him a thousand catties of gold, and appointed him as Taiwei.
Three years later, Jianghou Zhou Bo was relieved of his position as prime minister and returned to his own fiefdom. Guan Ying became prime minister and revoked the position of Taiwei.
This year, the Huns invaded Beidi and Shangjun in a large scale. The emperor ordered Prime Minister Guan Ying to lead 85,000 cavalry to attack the Huns.
After the Xiongnu fled, King Liu Xingju of Jibei rebelled, and the emperor ordered Guan Ying to withdraw his troops and return to Beijing.
More than a year later, Guan Ying died while serving as prime minister, and his posthumous title was Yihou.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
子平侯阿代侯。
二十八年卒，子彊代侯。
十三年，彊有罪，绝二岁。
元光三年，天子封灌婴孙贤为临汝侯，续灌氏後，八岁，坐行赇有罪，国除。
太史公曰：吾適丰沛，问其遗老，观故萧、曹、樊哙、滕公之家，及其素，异哉所闻！
方其鼓刀屠狗卖缯之时，岂自知附骥之尾，垂名汉廷，德流子孙哉？
余与他广通，为言高祖功臣之兴时若此云。
translation: 
His son Pinghou Guuan'a inherited the title.
He died twenty-eight years later, and his son Guan Qiang succeeded to the throne.
Thirteen years later, because of the crime of rape, the title was suspended for two years.
In the third year of Yuanguang, the emperor made Guan Ying's grandson Guan Xian the Marquis of Linru and made him the successor of Guan Ying. Eight years later, Guan Xian was found guilty of bribery and his feudal status was revoked.
Tai Shigong said: I once visited Fengfei, visited the local elders, looked at the place where Xiao He, Cao Shen, Fan Kuai and Teng Gong originally lived, and asked about their relevant stories back then. What I heard was really amazing!
When they kill dogs or sell silk silk, do they know that they will be able to attach themselves to Jiwei, be named in the Han Dynasty, and pass on their virtues to their descendants?
I have had a relationship with Fan Kuai's grandson Fan Taguang. The stories he told me about the great ancestors' deeds when they started their business are exactly what I have described above.


