Chunk 0: 
original: 
匈奴，其先祖夏后氏之苗裔也，曰淳维。
唐虞以上有山戎、獫狁、荤粥，居于北蛮，随畜牧而转移。
其畜之所多则马、牛、羊，其奇畜则橐扆、驴骡、駃騠、騊駼、驒騱。
逐水草迁徙，毋城郭常处耕田之业，然亦各有分地。
毋文书，以言语为约束。
兒能骑羊，引弓射鸟鼠；少长则射狐兔：用为食。
士力能毌弓，尽为甲骑。
其俗，宽则随畜，因射猎禽兽为生业，急则人习战攻以侵伐，其天性也。
其长兵则弓矢，短兵则刀鋋。
利则进，不利则退，不羞遁走。
苟利所在，不知礼义。
自君王以下，咸食畜肉，衣其皮革，被旃裘。
壮者食肥美，老者食其馀。
贵壮健，贱老弱。
父死，妻其後母；兄弟死，皆取其妻妻之。
其俗有名不讳，而无姓字。
translation: 
The ancestor of the Xiongnu was a descendant of the Xiahou family, named Chunwei.
Before Yao and Shun of the Tang Dynasty, there were Shanrong, yangxu and Xunzhu, who lived in the wild land in the north and moved with the livestock activities.
Most of their livestock are horses, cattle, and sheep, and their unique livestock are camels, donkeys, and mules? Fan Jun, Fan Dao.
They migrated in pursuit of water and grass. They did not have permanent urban settlements or agricultural production, but they also had their own share of pasture land.
There are no words or books, only words are used to restrain each other.
A child can ride a sheep, draw a bow and shoot birds and mice; an older child can shoot foxes and rabbits for food.
The men all had the strength to draw their bows, and they were all cavalry in armor.
Their custom is that they nomadically roam at will and take hunting animals as their occupation; when the situation is urgent, everyone will practice combat and carry out invasions and conquests. This is their nature.
Their long weapons were bows and arrows, and their short weapons were knives and small spears with iron handles.
Attack when the situation is favorable, retreat when the situation is unfavorable, and do not be ashamed of running away.
If you can get benefits, you don't know what etiquette is.
From the king down, everyone eats the meat of livestock, wears the leather of livestock, and wears fur coats.
Strong people eat rich food, and old people eat leftovers.
Respect the strong and look down upon the old and the infirm.
When the father dies, the son takes his stepmother as his wife; when the brother dies, the surviving brothers all take the wife of the deceased brother.
Their customs are famous but not taboo, and they have no surnames or given names.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
夏道衰，而公刘失其稷官，变于西戎，邑于豳。
其後三百有馀岁，戎狄攻大王亶父，亶父亡走岐下，而豳人悉从亶父而邑焉，作周。
其後百有馀岁，周西伯昌伐畎夷氏。
後十有馀年，武王伐纣而营雒邑，复居于酆鄗，放逐戎夷泾、洛之北，以时入贡，命曰 荒服 。
其後二百有馀年，周道衰，而穆王伐犬戎，得四白狼四白鹿以归。
自是之後，荒服不至。
於是周遂作甫刑之辟。
穆王之後二百有馀年，周幽王用宠姬襃姒之故，与申侯有卻。
申侯怒而与犬戎共攻杀周幽王于骊山之下，遂取周之焦穫，而居于泾渭之间，侵暴中国。
秦襄公救周，於是周平王去酆鄗而东徙雒邑。
当是之时，秦襄公伐戎至岐，始列为诸侯。
translation: 
When the Xia Dynasty was in political decline, Gong Liu lost his position as Ji official, implemented reforms in Xirong, built a city in Bindi and settled there.
More than 300 years later, the Rongdi tribe attacked Zhou Tai Wang Dan's father, and his father fled to the foot of Qishan. The people of Bindi followed his father to the foot of Qishan, built a city here, and established the Zhou Kingdom.
More than a hundred years later, Jichang, Bo of the Western Zhou Dynasty, attacked the Yi clan.
More than ten years later, King Wu of Zhou attacked King Zhou of Shang and built Luoyi. He returned to live in Fengjing and Haojing. He expelled the Rongyi to the north of Jingshui and Luoshui, and asked them to pay tribute to Zhou on time, which was called "Huangfu".
Over the next two hundred years, when the Zhou Dynasty was in political decline, King Mu of Zhou conquered the Dog Rong and returned after obtaining four white wolves and four white deer.
From then on, the Rong and Yi people in Huangfu no longer came to Haojing to pay tribute.
So the Zhou Dynasty formulated the regulations of "Fu Xing".
More than two hundred years after King Mu, King You of Zhou had a grudge against Marquis Shen because of his favor with Bao Si.
The Marquis of Shen was angry, so he and Quan Rong attacked and killed King Zhou You under Mount Li. The Quan Rong captured the Jiaohuo land of the Zhou Dynasty, and the monarch invaded the Central Plains area along the Jing River and the Wei River.
At this time, Qin Xianggong came to the rescue of the Zhou Dynasty, so King Zhou Ping left Fengjing and Haojing and moved eastward to Luoyi.
At this time, Qin Xianggong attacked the Rong people and came to Qishan, and began to be named a prince.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
是後六十有五年，而山戎越燕而伐齐，齐釐公与战于齐郊。
其後四十四年，而山戎伐燕。
燕告急于齐，齐桓公北伐山戎，山戎走。
其後二十有馀年，而戎狄至洛邑，伐周襄王，襄王奔于郑之氾邑。
初，周襄王欲伐郑，故娶戎狄女为后，与戎狄兵共伐郑。
已而黜狄后，狄后怨，而襄王後母曰惠后，有子子带，欲立之，於是惠后与狄后、子带为内应，开戎狄，戎狄以故得入，破逐周襄王，而立子带为天子。
於是戎狄或居于陆浑，东至於卫，侵盗暴虐中国。中国疾之，故诗人歌之曰 戎狄是应 ， 薄伐獫狁，至於大原 ， 出舆彭彭，城彼朔方 。
周襄王既居外四年，乃使使告急于晋。
晋文公初立，欲修霸业，乃兴师伐逐戎翟，诛子带，迎内周襄王，居于雒邑。
当是之时，秦晋为彊国。
晋文公攘戎翟，居于河西、洛之间，号曰赤翟、白翟。
translation: 
Sixty-five years later, Shan Rong crossed Yan State and attacked Qi State. Qi Ligong fought with Shan Rong outside the city of Qi State.
Forty-four years later, Shanrong attacked Yan.
The State of Yan appealed to the State of Qi, and Duke Huan of Qi went north to attack the Shan Rong, but the Shan Rong fled.
More than twenty years later, Rong Di came to Luoyi and attacked King Xiang of Zhou Dynasty. King Xiang fled to Panyi of Zheng State.
Initially, King Xiang of Zhou wanted to attack the State of Zheng, so he married a girl from Rong Di as his queen and joined forces with the soldiers of Rong Di to attack the State of Zheng.
Soon, King Xiang deposed Queen Di, and Queen Di was resentful. King Xiang's stepmother was named Queen Hui, and she had a son named Zi Dai, who wanted to make him king. So Queen Hui, Queen Di, and Zi Dai acted as internal correspondents, and opened the city gate for Rong Di, so that Rong Di could enter the city, defeat the Zhou army, drive away King Xiang of Zhou, and make Zi Dai the emperor.
So some people from Rong and Di lived in Luhun, and in the east they reached Weiguo. They invaded and tortured the people of the Central Plains, and the people of the Central Plains hated them. Therefore, the authors of the Classic wrote poems about attacking the Rong and Di. They attacked the wolves and arrived in Dayuan. They sent out military chariots and many war horses and built cities in the north.
King Xiang of Zhou had been living abroad for four years, so he sent an envoy to ask for help from Jin.
At that time, Duke Wen of Jin had just ascended the throne and wanted to establish hegemony, so he sent troops to attack and expel the Rong and Di, killed Zi Dai, and welcomed King Zhou Xiang back to live in Luoyi.
At that time, Qin and Jin were powerful countries.
The Rong Di who were driven away by Duke Wen of Jin lived in the area between Ji River and Luo River in the west of Hexi and were called Red Di and Bai Di.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
秦穆公得由余，西戎八国服於秦，故自陇以西有绵诸、绲戎、翟、镕之戎，岐、梁山、泾、漆之北有义渠、大荔、乌氏、朐衍之戎。
而晋北有林胡、楼烦之戎，燕北有东胡、山戎。
各分散居谿谷，自有君长，往往而聚者百有馀戎，然莫能相一。
自是之後百有馀年，晋悼公使魏绛和戎翟，戎翟朝晋。
後百有馀年，赵襄子逾句注而破并代以临胡貉。
其後既与韩魏共灭智伯，分晋地而有之，则赵有代、句注之北，魏有河西、上郡，以与戎界边。
其後义渠之戎筑城郭以自守，而秦稍蚕食，至於惠王，遂拔义渠二十五城。
惠王击魏，魏尽入西河及上郡于秦。
秦昭王时，义渠戎王与宣太后乱，有二子。
宣太后诈而杀义渠戎王於甘泉，遂起兵伐残义渠。
translation: 
Duke Mugong of Qin got help from Youyu and made the eight Western Rong countries surrender to Qin. Therefore, from Longdi to the west there were Rong tribes such as Mianzhu, Qirong, Di and , Qishan, Liangshan, Jingshui, and to the north of Qishui, there were Yiqu, Dali, Wushi, Quyan and other Rong tribes.
In the northern part of Jin State there are Linhu, Loufan and other Rong tribes, and in the northern part of Yan State there are Donghu and Shanrong tribes.
Each of them lives scattered in the valley, and each has its own ruler. There are more than a hundred Rong tribes who often gather together, but they cannot unified with each other.
More than a hundred years later, the Duke of Jin sent Wei Jiang to make peace with the Rongdi people, and both Rongdi and Rongdi came to court.
More than a hundred years later, Zhao Xiangzi crossed Juzhu Mountain, defeated and merged Daidi, and approached the residential areas of Hu and raccoon dogs.
After that, Zhao Xiangzi, Han Kangzi and Wei Huanzi jointly destroyed Zhibo, divided the Jin Kingdom and occupied its territory. In this way, Zhao State occupies Daidi and the land north of Juzhu Mountain, and Wei State occupies Hexi and Shangjun, so it borders the Rong people.
After that, the Rong people in Yiqu built walls to defend themselves, while Qin gradually encroached on them. By the time of King Hui, he captured twenty-five cities in Yiqu.
King Hui attacked Wei, and Wei gave Xihe and Shangjun to Qin.
During the reign of King Zhao of Qin, the King of Yiqurong had an affair with the Queen Mother Xuan and gave birth to two children.
Empress Dowager Xuan murdered King Rong of Yiqu in Ganquan Palace, so she sent troops to attack and eliminate Yiqu.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
於是秦有陇西、北地、上郡，筑长城以拒胡。
而赵武灵王亦变俗胡服，习骑射，北破林胡、楼烦。
筑长城，自代并阴山下，至高阙为塞。而置云中、雁门、代郡。
其後燕有贤将秦开，为质於胡，胡甚信之。归而袭破走东胡，东胡卻千馀里。
与荆轲刺秦王秦舞阳者，开之孙也。
燕亦筑长城，自造阳至襄平。置上谷、渔阳、右北平、辽西、辽东郡以拒胡。
当是之时，冠带战国七，而三国边於匈奴。
其後赵将李牧时，匈奴不敢入赵边。
後秦灭六国，而始皇帝使蒙恬将十万之众北击胡，悉收河南地。因河为塞，筑四十四县城临河，徙適戍以充之。
而通直道，自九原至云阳，因边山险巉谿谷可缮者治之，起临洮至辽东万馀里。
又度河据阳山北假中。
当是之时，东胡彊而月氏盛。
匈奴单于曰头曼，头曼不胜秦，北徙。
十馀年而蒙恬死，诸侯畔秦，中国扰乱，诸秦所徙適戍边者皆复去，於是匈奴得宽，复稍度河南与中国界於故塞。
translation: 
So the Qin State occupied Longxi, Beidi, and Shangjun, and built the Great Wall to resist the Xiongnu.
King Wuling of Zhao also changed his customs, wore Hu clothes, practiced horseback riding and archery, and defeated Lin Hu and Lou Fan in the north.
The Great Wall was built along the Yinshan Mountains from Dai to Gaoque. Passes were built and Yunzhong County, Yanmen County and Dai County were established.
After that, a capable general named Qin Kai from Yan State went to the Hu people as a hostage. The Hu people trusted him very much. After he returned home, he attacked and drove away Donghu, who retreated more than a thousand miles.
Qin Wuyang, who went with Jing Ke to assassinate the King of Qin, was Qin Kai's grandson.
The State of Yan also built the Great Wall, from Zaoyang to Xiangping, and set up Shanggu, Yuyang, Youbeiping, Liaoxi, and Liaodong counties to resist the Hu people.
At this time, there were seven great countries with civilized customs and frequent attacks on each other, and three of them were borderline with the Xiongnu.
Later, when Li Mu became the general of Zhao State, the Xiongnu did not dare to enter the border of Zhao State.
After the Qin Dynasty destroyed the six kingdoms, Qin Shihuang sent Meng Tian to lead an army of 100,000 to attack the Xiongnu in the north and recover all the land south of the Yellow River. With the Yellow River as a border fortress, forty-four counties were built near the Yellow River. People who were punished for crimes and guarding the border were moved here to enrich these counties.
A direct highway was also built, from Jiuyuan to Yunyang, and cities were built using mountain sides, dangerous ravines, valleys and other repairable places, starting from Lintao and ending in Liaodong, with a length of more than 10,000 miles.
Then he crossed the Yellow River and occupied the Yangshan and Beijia areas.
At this time, Donghu was strong and Yuezhi was prosperous.
The Xiongnu's Chanyu was called Touman. Touman could not defeat Qin, so he moved north.
More than ten years later, Meng Tian died, the princes betrayed Qin, the Central Plains was in chaos, and those who were exiled by Qin to guard the borders also left here. So the Xiongnu got a chance to relax, and gradually crossed the Yellow River, and connected with the old pass in the Central Plains to the south of the Yellow River.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
单于有太子名冒顿。
後有所爱阏氏，生少子，而单于欲废冒顿而立少子，乃使冒顿质於月氏。冒顿既质於月氏，而头曼急击月氏。月氏欲杀冒顿，冒顿盗其善马，骑之亡归。
头曼以为壮，令将万骑。
冒顿乃作为鸣镝，习勒其骑射，令曰： 鸣镝所射而不悉射者，斩之。
行猎鸟兽，有不射鸣镝所射者，辄斩之。
已而冒顿以鸣镝自射其善马，左右或不敢射者，冒顿立斩不射善马者。
居顷之，复以鸣镝自射其爱妻，左右或颇恐，不敢射，冒顿又复斩之。
居顷之，冒顿出猎，以鸣镝射单于善马，左右皆射之。
於是冒顿知其左右皆可用。
从其父单于头曼猎，以鸣镝射头曼，其左右亦皆随鸣镝而射杀单于头曼，遂尽诛其後母与弟及大臣不听从者。
冒顿自立为单于。
冒顿既立，是时东胡彊盛，闻冒顿杀父自立，乃使使谓冒顿，欲得头曼时有千里马。
translation: 
The Chanyu had a prince named Maodun. Later, the Yu family whom the Chanyu loved gave birth to a young son.
The Chanyu wanted to depose Mao Dun and make his younger son the crown prince, so he sent Mao Dun to Yuezhi as a hostage. Mao Dun had already come to Yuezhi as a hostage, but Touman rushed to attack Yuezhi. Yuezhi wanted to kill Mao Dun, but Mo Dun stole Yuezhi's good horse and rode it back to the Huns.
Touman thought he was brave and ordered him to command ten thousand cavalry.
Mao Dun made a kind of sounding arrow, trained his men in horseback archery, and ordered: "Anyone who does not follow me and shoot at the target with my sounding arrow will be beheaded."
First, he shot at birds and beasts. If someone failed to hit the target with his arrow, Mao Dun killed him.
Soon, Mao Dun shot his own good horse with a resounding arrow. Those on his left and right did not dare to shoot, so Mao Dun immediately killed them.
After some time, Mao Dun shot his beloved wife with a loud arrow again. Some of the people around him were frightened and did not dare to shoot, so Mao Dun killed them again.
A few days later, Maodun went out hunting and shot Shanyu's good horse with a loud arrow, and everyone on the left and right followed suit.
So Modu knew that the people around him were all useful people.
He went hunting with Shan Yu Tou Man and shot Tou Man in the head with a ringing arrow. The people on his left and right also followed the sound arrows and shot Shan Yu Tou Man to death. Then he killed all his stepmother, younger brother and disobedient ministers.
Maodun established himself as a Chanyu.
After Mao Dun became a chanyu, Donghu was powerful and prosperous at that time. When he heard that Mao Dun had killed his father and established himself, he sent an envoy to Mao Dun to tell him that he wanted to get Tou Manshi's thousand-mile horse.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
冒顿问群臣，群臣皆曰： 千里马，匈奴宝马也，勿与。
冒顿曰： 柰何与人邻国而爱一马乎？
遂与之千里马。
居顷之，东胡以为冒顿畏之，乃使使谓冒顿，欲得单于一阏氏。
冒顿复问左右，左右皆怒曰： 东胡无道，乃求阏氏！请击之。
冒顿曰： 柰何与人邻国爱一女子乎？
遂取所爱阏氏予东胡。
东胡王愈益骄，西侵。
与匈奴间，中有弃地，莫居，千馀里，各居其边为瓯脱。
东胡使使谓冒顿曰： 匈奴所与我界瓯脱外弃地，匈奴非能至也，吾欲有之。
冒顿问群臣，群臣或曰： 此弃地，予之亦可，勿予亦可。
於是冒顿大怒曰： 地者，国之本也，柰何予之！
诸言予之者，皆斩之。
冒顿上马，令国中有後者斩，遂东袭击东胡。
东胡初轻冒顿，不为备。
及冒顿以兵至，击，大破灭东胡王，而虏其民人及畜产。
translation: 
Mao Dun asked the officials, and they all said: "The Chollima is the Xiongnu's BMW, don't give it to me."
Mao Dun said: How can we be stingy of a horse even though we are neighboring countries?
So he gave the Chollima to Dong Hu.
After a while, Dong Hu thought that Mao Dun was afraid of him, so he sent an envoy to Mao Dun to tell him that he wanted one of Shan Yu's clans.
Mao Dun asked the ministers on the left and right again, and they all got angry and said: Donghu is unreasonable. He actually wants the Yan family. Please send troops to attack him.
Mao Dun said: How can you be the leader of a country with someone else but begrudge a woman?
So he gave his beloved Yan family to Donghu.
King Donghu became more and more proud and invaded and invaded westward.
There is an open space between the Donghu and the Xiongnu, which is more than a thousand miles away. No one lives in it. Both sides have built outposts on both sides of the open space.
Donghu sent an envoy to Modu and said: You Xiongnu cannot go to the open space outside the border post between the Xiongnu and us. We want to occupy it.
Mao Dun asked the officials for their opinions. Some of them said: This is an abandoned vacant land. You can give it to them or not.
So Modu was furious and said: Land is the foundation of the country, how can we give it to them!
Those who said they would give Donghu free space were killed.
Maodun mounted his horse and ordered anyone in the country who retreated to be beheaded, so he headed east to attack Donghu.
Donghu initially despised the Xiongnu and therefore did not take precautions.
When Mao Dun arrived with his troops, he defeated Donghu as soon as the war started, wiped out the king of Donghu, captured the people of Donghu and plundered their livestock and property.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
既归，西击走月氏，南并楼烦、白羊河南王。
悉复收秦所使蒙恬所夺匈奴地者，与汉关故河南塞，至朝、肤施，遂侵燕、代。
是时汉兵与项羽相距，中国罢於兵革，以故冒顿得自彊，控弦之士三十馀万。
自淳维以至头曼千有馀岁，时大时小，别散分离，尚矣，其世传不可得而次云。
然至冒顿而匈奴最彊大，尽服从北夷，而南与中国为敌国，其世传国官号乃可得而记云。
置左右贤王，左右谷蠡王，左右大将，左右大都尉，左右大当户，左右骨都侯。
匈奴谓贤曰 屠耆 ，故常以太子为左屠耆王。
自如左右贤王以下至当户，大者万骑，小者数千，凡二十四长，立号曰 万骑 。
诸大臣皆世官。
呼衍氏，兰氏，其後有须卜氏，此三姓其贵种也。
诸左方王将居东方，直上谷以往者，东接秽貉、朝鲜；右方王将居西方，直上郡以西，接月氏、氐、羌；而单于之庭直代、云中：各有分地，逐水草移徙。
而左右贤王、左右谷蠡王最为大，左右骨都侯辅政。
诸二十四长亦各自置千长、百长、什长、裨小王、相、封都尉、当户、且渠之属。
岁正月，诸长小会单于庭，祠。
五月，大会茏城，祭其先、天地、鬼神。
秋，马肥，大会蹛林，课校人畜计。
translation: 
After the Huns returned from Maodun, they defeated the Yuezhi in the west and annexed Loufan and the Aries Henan King in the south.
And completely recovered the land that Meng Tian of the Qin faction had taken from the Huns, and the original Henan fortress was the boundary with the Han Dynasty, as far as Chao and Fushi, and then invaded Yan and Dai.
At this time, the Han army was fighting against Xiang Yu's troops. The Central Plains area was exhausted by the war, so Maodun was able to become strong on his own, with an army of more than 300,000 people who could draw bows and shoot arrows.
It was more than a thousand years from Chunwei to Touman. The power of the Xiongnu grew and fell, and they often dispersed and differentiated. Because of the long time, their lineages cannot be arranged in sequence.
But when Maodun was the Chanyu, the Huns were the most powerful, making the northern barbarians completely submit to their rule and becoming an enemy of China in the south. After that, their lineage and national official titles could be recorded.
The Huns set up official positions such as the left and right virtuous kings, the left and right kings of Guli, the left and right generals, the left and right captains, the left and right Danghu, and the left and right Guduhou.
The Huns called virtuous people "Tu Qi", so they often made the prince the king of Zuo Tu Qi.
From the left and right virtuous kings down to the head of the household, those with high official positions have ten thousand cavalry, while those with small official positions have thousands of cavalry. There are a total of twenty-four officers, who are definitely named Wanqi.
The official positions of ministers are hereditary.
The Huyan family, the Lan family, and later the Xubu family, these three surnames were their nobles.
The kings and generals on the left will live in the east, as far as the east of Shanggu County, and the east is bordered by Uraccoon and Korea. The kings and generals on the right will live in the west, to the west of Shangjun, bordering the Yueshi, Shi, and Qiang. The location of Shanyu's royal court extended to Dai and Yunzhong counties. They each have their own land, and they move around in search of water and grass.
King Xian of the left and right and King Guli of the left and right are the largest. The princes of Gudu of the left and right assist Shan Yu in governing the country.
The twenty-four officers also set up subordinate officials such as Qianchang, Baichang, Shichang, Xiaowang, Xiang, Fengduwei, Duanhu, Qiequ and so on.
Every year in the first month of the year, all the officials have a small gathering in the court of Shan Yu to hold sacrifices.
In May, there is a big gathering in Mingcheng to worship ancestors, gods of heaven and earth, and ghosts and gods.
In autumn, when the horses are fat, there is a large gathering in the Pu Lin to assess and count the number of people and livestock.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
其法，拔刃尺者死，坐盗者没入其家；有罪小者轧，大者死。
狱久者不过十日，一国之囚不过数人。
而单于朝出营，拜日之始生，夕拜月。
其坐，长左而北乡。
日上戊己。
其送死，有棺椁金银衣裘，而无封树丧服；近幸臣妾从死者，多至数千百人。
举事而候星月，月盛壮则攻战，月亏则退兵。
其攻战，斩首虏赐一卮酒，而所得卤获因以予之，得人以为奴婢。
故其战，人人自为趣利，善为诱兵以冒敌。
故其见敌则逐利，如鸟之集；其困败，则瓦解云散矣。
战而扶舆死者，尽得死者家财。
translation: 
According to the laws of the Huns, anyone who intentionally kills someone and pulls the sword out of the scabbard for one foot will be sentenced to death; anyone who commits the crime of theft will have his property confiscated; those who commit minor crimes will be punished by having their joints crushed, and those who commit serious crimes will be executed.
The longest sentence for a person in jail is only ten days, and there are only a few prisoners in a country.
Shanyu walked out of the camp in the morning to worship the rising sun and the moon in the evening.
When seated, the oldest person is on the left and faces north.
As for dates, they advocate Wu Day and Ji Day.
They buried their dead with coffins, gold and silver, and clothing, but they did not have graves, trees, or mourning clothes. After the Chanyu died, dozens or hundreds of people including his close and favored ministers, wives and concubines were buried with him.
When preparing for war, first observe the stars and the moon. If the moon is full, attack; if the moon is waning, retreat.
When the Huns attacked and conquered, whoever killed the enemy or captured the enemy would be rewarded with a pot of wine, the spoils captured would also be distributed to them, and those captured would also be given to them as slaves.
Therefore, when fighting, everyone automatically seeks their own interests and is good at ambushing troops to suddenly attack the enemy.
Therefore, when they see enemy soldiers, they rush to pursue their interests, just like birds flying together in one place. If they fail in a crisis, the team will disintegrate like clouds dissipating.
Whoever can bring back the corpse of his comrade who died in the war will get all the deceased's property.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
後北服浑庾、屈射、丁零、鬲昆、薪犁之国。
於是匈奴贵人大臣皆服，以冒顿单于为贤。
是时汉初定中国，徙韩王信於代，都马邑。
匈奴大攻围马邑，韩王信降匈奴。
匈奴得信，因引兵南逾句注，攻太原，至晋阳下。
高帝自将兵往击之。会冬大寒雨雪，卒之堕指者十二三，於是冒顿详败走，诱汉兵。
汉兵逐击冒顿，冒顿匿其精兵，见其羸弱，於是汉悉兵，多步兵，三十二万，北逐之。
高帝先至平城，步兵未尽到，冒顿纵精兵四十万骑围高帝於白登，七日，汉兵中外不得相救饷。
匈奴骑，其西方尽白马，东方尽青駹马，北方尽乌骊马，南方尽骍马。
高帝乃使使间厚遗阏氏，阏氏乃谓冒顿曰： 两主不相困。
今得汉地，而单于终非能居之也。
且汉王亦有神，单于察之。
translation: 
Later, Maodun conquered the Hungeng, Qushe, Dingling, Gekun, and Xinli kingdoms in the north.
So the nobles and ministers of the Xiongnu were convinced of Mao Dun, thinking that Mao Dun was a virtuous man.
At this time, the Han Dynasty had just pacified China and sent Han Wangxin to Dai to establish the capital city of Mayi.
The Huns attacked Mayi on a large scale, and King Xin of Han surrendered to the Huns.
The Xiongnu got Han Xin, so they led their troops southward across Juzhu Mountain and attacked Taiyuan until they reached the city of Jinyang.
Emperor Gao personally led his troops to attack the Xiongnu. It was so cold and snowy in winter that two or three tenths of the soldiers lost their fingers due to the cold, so Mao Dun pretended to be defeated and escaped to lure the Han army.
The Han army pursued Mao Dun, but Mao Dun hid his elite troops, leaving only some old and weak soldiers. So the Han Dynasty dispatched its entire army, mostly infantry, totaling 320,000 people, to pursue the Xiongnu northward.
Gaodi arrived at Pingcheng first. Before all the infantry arrived, Mao Dun commanded his 400,000 elite cavalry to surround Gaodi on Baishan Mountain. Within seven days, the Han army and the outside world could not help each other with supplies.
The Huns' cavalry was all white horses in the west, green horses in the east, black horses in the north, and red horses in the south.
Emperor Gao sent envoys to secretly give many gifts to the Yan family. The Yan family said to Mao Dun: The kings of the two sides cannot besiege each other.
If he gets the land of the Han Dynasty, Chanyu will not be able to live there after all.
Moreover, the king of Han also had the help of gods and hoped that Shanyu would seriously consider this matter.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
冒顿与韩王信之将王黄、赵利期，而黄、利兵又不来，疑其与汉有谋，亦取阏氏之言，乃解围之一角。
於是高帝令士皆持满傅矢外乡，从解角直出，竟与大军合，而冒顿遂引兵而去。汉亦引兵而罢，使刘敬结和亲之约。
是後韩王信为匈奴将，及赵利、王黄等数倍约，侵盗代、云中。
居无几何，陈豨反，又与韩信合谋击代。
汉使樊哙往击之，复拔代、雁门、云中郡县，不出塞。
是时匈奴以汉将众往降，故冒顿常往来侵盗代地。
於是汉患之，高帝乃使刘敬奉宗室女公主为单于阏氏，岁奉匈奴絮缯酒米食物各有数，约为昆弟以和亲，冒顿乃少止。
後燕王卢绾反，率其党数千人降匈奴，往来苦上谷以东。
高祖崩，孝惠、吕太后时，汉初定，故匈奴以骄。
冒顿乃为书遗高后，妄言。
高后欲击之，诸将曰： 以高帝贤武，然尚困於平城。
於是高后乃止，复与匈奴和亲。
translation: 
Mao Dun and Han Wangxin's generals Wang Huang and Zhao Li agreed on a date for the meeting, but Wang Huang and Zhao Li's troops did not arrive on time. Mao Dun suspected that they had premeditated plans with the Han army, so he adopted Yan's suggestion and lifted a corner of the encirclement.
So Emperor Gao ordered the soldiers to draw their bows fully, string their arrows, face outward, and rush out from the passage where Maodun was relieved, and finally met up with the Han army. Maodun then led his troops away, and Emperor Gao also returned with his troops and sent Liu Jing to the Xiongnu to conclude a peace treaty.
After that, Han Wangxin became the general of the Xiongnu. He, Zhao Li and Wang Huang repeatedly violated the covenant between Han and the Xiongnu and invaded and plundered Daijun and Yunzhongjun.
Not long after, Chen Xi, a general of the Han Dynasty, rebelled and conspired with Han Xin to attack Daidi.
The Han Dynasty sent Fan Kuai to stop them and re-captured Daijun, Yanmen and Yunzhong counties, but did not cross the border fortress.
At this time, because some generals of the Han Dynasty came to surrender to the Xiongnu, Maodun often traveled to Dai to carry out intrusion and robbery activities.
So the Han Dynasty was worried about this, and Emperor Gao sent Liu Jing to send the princess of the Han Dynasty royal family to the Chanyu family, and gave a certain amount of cotton wool, bamboo silk, wine, rice and food to the Xiongnu every year.
Later, King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled and led thousands of his followers to surrender to the Huns. They traveled east of the Shanggu and caused suffering to the local people.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, during the period of Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Dowager Lu, the Han Dynasty had just settled down, so the Xiongnu seemed proud.
Maodun wrote to the Empress Dowager Lu, talking nonsense.
Empress Dowager Lu wanted to attack him, but the generals said: With Emperor Gao's wisdom and martial arts, he was besieged in Pingcheng.
So Queen Mother Lu gave up her idea of ​​attacking and made peace with the Xiongnu.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
至孝文帝初立，复修和亲之事。
其三年五月，匈奴右贤王入居河南地，侵盗上郡葆塞蛮夷，杀略人民。
於是孝文帝诏丞相灌婴发车骑八万五千，诣高奴，击右贤王。
右贤王走出塞。
文帝幸太原。是时济北王反，文帝归，罢丞相击胡之兵。
其明年，单于遗汉书曰： 天所立匈奴大单于敬问皇帝无恙。前时皇帝言和亲事，称书意，合欢。
汉边吏侵侮右贤王，右贤王不请，听後义卢侯难氏等计，与汉吏相距，绝二主之约，离兄弟之亲。
皇帝让书再至，发使以书报，不来，汉使不至，汉以其故不和，邻国不附。
今以小吏之败约故，罚右贤王，使之西求月氏击之。
以天之福，吏卒良，马彊力，以夷灭月氏，尽斩杀降下之。
定楼兰、乌孙、呼揭及其旁二十六国，皆以为匈奴。
诸引弓之民，并为一家。
translation: 
When Emperor Xiaowen just succeeded to the throne, he promoted the marriage plan.
In May of the third year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, King Youxian of the Xiongnu entered Henan to live, harassed and plundered the barbarians in the small border towns, and massacred and plundered the people.
So Emperor Xiaowen ordered Prime Minister Guan Ying to dispatch 85,000 chariots and cavalry to Gaonu to attack King Youxian.
King Youxian fled outside the wall.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty came to Taiyuan in person. At this time, King Liu Xingju of Jibei rebelled. Emperor Wen returned to the capital and disbanded the army sent by the prime minister to fight the Huns.
The next year, the Chanyu of the Xiongnu sent a letter to the Han Dynasty, saying: The Great Chanyu of the Xiongnu, appointed by heaven, respectfully wishes the emperor peace. Some time ago, the emperor said about the marriage, which was consistent with the meaning of the letter, and both parties were happy.
The officials on the border of the Han Dynasty harassed and insulted King Youxian. King Youxian did not ask the Shanyu for instructions, but listened to the plot of Houyi Luhou Nan and others, resisted the Han Dynasty officials, severed the treaty between the Xiongnu and the Han emperor, and alienated the close brotherly relationship between the Han and the Xiongnu.
The emperor's letter reproaching the Xiongnu came for the second time. We sent an envoy to report the situation, but the envoy was detained by the Han Dynasty and did not return. The Han Dynasty's envoy did not come to the Huns. For this reason, the Han Dynasty did not reconcile with us, and our neighboring countries could not surrender.
Now because the petty officials broke the peace treaty, I punish King Youxian and send him to the west to find the Yuezhi and attack them.
Thanks to the blessing of God, the officials and soldiers were all excellent, and the horses were strong and powerful. Therefore, the Yuezhi were wiped out, all those who resisted and disobeyed were killed, and the common people were subjugated.
Loulan, Wusun, Hujie and the twenty-six countries beside them were pacified, and they all became subjects of the Xiongnu.
Those who were good at bending bows and shooting arrows merged into one family.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
北州已定，原寝兵休士卒养马，除前事，复故约，以安边民，以应始古，使少者得成其长，老者安其处，世世平乐。
未得皇帝之志也，故使郎中系雩浅奉书请，献橐他一匹，骑马二匹，驾二驷。
皇帝即不欲匈奴近塞，则且诏吏民远舍。
使者至，即遣之。
以六月中来至薪望之地。
书至，汉议击与和亲孰便。
公卿皆曰： 单于新破月氏，乘胜，不可击。且得匈奴地，泽卤，非可居也。
和亲甚便。
汉许之。
translation: 
The north has been stabilized. We are willing to cease war, train soldiers, feed horses, eliminate unpleasant things in the past, and restore old treaties, so that the people on the border can be peaceful, comply with the good relations between the Huns and the Han people from ancient times, so that young people can grow up, old people can live in peace, and generations of peace and happiness.
我们尚不知皇帝的心意，所以派郎中系雩浅呈送书信请示皇上，并献上骆驼一匹，战马二匹，驾车之马八匹。
If the emperor does not want the Xiongnu to approach the Han Dynasty's frontier fortress, then I will order the officials and people to live far away from the Han Dynasty's frontier fortress.
When the messenger arrives, ask him to come back immediately.
In mid-June, the Huns envoys came to Xinwang.
After the letter was delivered, the Han Dynasty discussed which of the two policies was more advantageous: attack or make peace.
The ministers all said: Shan Yu had just defeated the Yuezhi and was at a favorable opportunity for victory, so he could not attack him. Moreover, the land obtained by the Xiongnu was all low-lying and saline-alkali land, making it uninhabitable.
It is particularly beneficial to get married.
The Han Dynasty agreed to the Xiongnu's request.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
孝文皇帝前六年，汉遗匈奴书曰： 皇帝敬问匈奴大单于无恙。使郎中系雩浅遗朕书曰： 右贤王不请，听後义卢侯难氏等计，绝二主之约，离兄弟之亲，汉以故不和，邻国不附。
今以小吏败约，故罚右贤王使西击月氏，尽定之。
原寝兵休士卒养马，除前事，复故约，以安边民，使少者得成其长，老者安其处，世世平乐。
朕甚嘉之，此古圣主之意也。
汉与匈奴约为兄弟，所以遗单于甚厚。
倍约离兄弟之亲者，常在匈奴。
然右贤王事已在赦前，单于勿深诛。
单于若称书意，明告诸吏，使无负约，有信，敬如单于书。
使者言单于自将伐国有功，甚苦兵事。
translation: 
In the sixth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, a letter sent by the Han Dynasty to the Xiongnu said: The emperor wishes to inquire about the peace of the Xiongnu Great Chanyu. The doctor Xi Yuqian sent me a letter saying: King Youxian did not ask the Shanyu for instructions. He listened to the plot of Houyi Lu Hou Nan and others, severed the peace treaty between the Xiongnu and the Han Dynasty monarch, and alienated the close brotherly relationship. Therefore, the Han Dynasty refused to reconcile with us, and neighboring countries could not be attached to it.
Now because the petty officials broke the peace treaty, King Youxian was punished by sending him to the west to attack the Yueshi, and completely pacified them.
Willing to cease war, train soldiers, feed horses, eliminate unpleasant things in the past, and restore old peace treaties, so that the border people can be peaceful, the young can grow up, the elderly can live in peace, and generations of peace and happiness can be achieved.
I appreciate this idea very much. This is the intention of the ancient sage monarchs.
The Han Dynasty concluded a peace treaty with the Xiongnu and became brothers. The gifts given to the Xiongnu were very rich.
It was often the Huns who violated the peace treaty and broke the close brotherly relationship.
But the matter of King Youxian had already appeared before the amnesty, so the Shanyu should not be deeply responsible for it.
If the Shanyu's actions are consistent with what is expressed in the letter, and clearly inform the officials not to violate the peace agreement and to keep their promises, I will treat the matter carefully and follow the request in the Shanyu's letter.
The envoy said that Shanyu personally led the army to conquer other countries and had meritorious service, but he was very distressed by the war.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
服绣袷绮衣、绣袷长襦、锦袷袍各一，比余一，黄金饰具带一，黄金胥纰一，绣十匹，锦三十匹，赤綈、绿缯各四十匹，使中大夫意、谒者令肩遗单于。
後顷之，冒顿死，子稽粥立，号曰老上单于。
老上稽粥单于初立，孝文皇帝复遣宗室女公主为单于阏氏，使宦者燕人中行说傅公主。
说不欲行，汉彊使之。
说曰： 必我行也，为汉患者。
中行说既至，因降单于，单于甚亲幸之。
初，匈奴好汉缯絮食物，中行说曰： 匈奴人众不能当汉之一郡，然所以彊者，以衣食异，无仰於汉也。
今单于变俗好汉物，汉物不过什二，则匈奴尽归於汉矣。
其得汉缯絮，以驰草棘中，衣袴皆裂敝，以示不如旃裘之完善也。
得汉食物皆去之，以示不如湩酪之便美也。
於是说教单于左右疏记，以计课其人众畜物。
汉遗单于书，牍以尺一寸，辞曰 皇帝敬问匈奴大单于无恙 ，所遗物及言语云云。
中行说令单于遗汉书以尺二寸牍，及印封皆令广大长，倨傲其辞曰 天地所生日月所置匈奴大单于敬问汉皇帝无恙 ，所以遗物言语亦云云。
汉使或言曰： 匈奴俗贱老。
中行说穷汉使曰： 而汉俗屯戍从军当发者，其老亲岂有不自脱温厚肥美以赍送饮食行戍乎？ 汉使曰： 然。
中行说曰： 匈奴明以战攻为事，其老弱不能斗，故以其肥美饮食壮健者，盖以自为守卫，如此父子各得久相保，何以言匈奴轻老也？
汉使曰： 匈奴父子乃同穹庐而卧。
translation: 
Now there are one piece of embroidered Qiyi, embroidered long jacket, and brocade robe worn by the emperor, more than one, one gold-decorated belt, one gold belt hook, ten pieces of embroidered silk, thirty pieces of brocade, and forty pieces each of red silk and green silk.
Not long after this, Maodun died, and his son Jizhu became the king, named Laoshang Chanyu.
Laoshang Jizhou Shanyu had just succeeded to the throne, and Emperor Xiaowen sent a royal princess to be Shanyu's Yan family, and asked the eunuch Yan Zhongxingshuo to be the princess's assistant.
Bank of China said he didn't want to go, so the Han Dynasty forced him to go.
He said: You must let me go, I will become a disaster to the Han Dynasty.
Bank of China said that after arriving, he surrendered to Shanyu, who especially favored him.
At first, the Xiongnu liked the silk fabrics and food of the Han Dynasty. The Bank of China said: The total population of the Xiongnu was not equal to a county of the Han Dynasty. However, the reason why it was strong was that its food and clothing were different from those of the Han people, and they did not have to rely on the Han Dynasty.
Now if the Chanyu changes his original customs and likes the clothing and food of the Han Dynasty, and the Han Dynasty provides no more than two-tenths of the total, then the Xiongnu will completely belong to the Han Dynasty.
He hoped to make clothes and trousers from the cotton cloth obtained from the Han Dynasty, and wear them while riding horses and galloping in the weeds and thorns, causing the clothes and trousers to be torn and damaged, in order to show that the cotton cloth of the Han Dynasty was not as strong and perfect as the Xiongnu's leather jackets.
All the food obtained from the Han Dynasty was thrown away to show that they were not as convenient and delicious as the Xiongnu's milk and milk products.
So the Bank of China taught the people around Shan Yu how to record things in sections so that they could record their population and livestock.
The letter from the Han Dynasty to the Chanyu was written on a piece of wood measuring one foot per inch. It began with the following words: "The emperor respectfully greets the Xiongnu Great Chanyu for his safety," and also writes down what he has sent and what he wants to say.
The Bank of China asked the Chanyu to write a letter to the Han emperor with a one-foot-two-inch piece of wood, and lengthened, widened, and enlarged the size of the seal and seal, and made the opening sentence very arrogant: The Xiongnu Great Chanyu, born of heaven and earth and placed by the sun and moon, respectfully greets the Emperor of Han Dynasty for his well-being. Then write down what you are sending and what you want to say.
One of the envoys from the Han Dynasty said: The Xiongnu custom despises the elderly.
The Bank of China questioned the envoys of the Han Dynasty and said: According to the custom of your Han Dynasty, when soldiers are sent to guard the territory and are about to leave, don't their elderly parents save warm clothes and rich food and give them to the travelers for food and clothing? The envoy from the Han Dynasty said: That's right.
Bank of China said: The Huns all knew that war was an important matter, and those who were old and infirm could not fight, so they gave those rich foods to the strong to eat and drink, probably to defend themselves, so that father and son could protect each other for a long time. How can you say that the Huns despised the elderly?
The envoy of the Han Dynasty said: The Huns father and son slept in the same yurt.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
父死，妻其後母；兄弟死，尽取其妻妻之。
无冠带之饰，阙庭之礼。
中行说曰： 匈奴之俗，人食畜肉，饮其汁，衣其皮；畜食草饮水，随时转移。
故其急则人习骑射，宽则人乐无事，其约束轻，易行也。
君臣简易，一国之政犹一身也。父子兄弟死，取其妻妻之，恶种姓之失也。
故匈奴虽乱，必立宗种。
今中国虽详不取其父兄之妻，亲属益疏则相杀，至乃易姓，皆从此类。
且礼义之敝，上下交怨望，而室屋之极，生力必屈。
夫力耕桑以求衣食，筑城郭以自备，故其民急则不习战功，缓则罢於作业。
translation: 
After his father died, the son actually took his stepmother as his wife. After the death of a brother, the surviving brother takes all the deceased's wives as his own wives.
There are no hats, belts and other clothing, and there is a lack of court etiquette.
BOC said: According to the customs of the Xiongnu, everyone eats the meat of livestock, drinks their milk, and uses their skins to make clothes; livestock eat grass and drink water, and change places as time goes by.
Therefore, when they are in urgent need, everyone practices horseback riding and archery skills. When times are relaxed, people are happy and have nothing to do. They are subject to few restrictions and it is easy to do it.
The relationship between king and minister is simple, and the political affairs of a country are like a person's body. Father, son, and brother are dead, and the living ones take their wives as their own wives. This is the fear of the disappearance of the race.
Therefore, although the Xiongnu's ethics are often chaotic, they must establish their own descendants.
Nowadays, although Chinese people pretend to be decent and do not marry the wives of their fathers and brothers, their kinship relationships are becoming more and more estranged, they are killing each other, and they even change their dynasties and surnames. This is all caused by this kind of reason.
Moreover, the shortcomings of etiquette and justice caused resentment among the king and his subjects, and the efforts to build palaces and houses would inevitably exhaust the people's strength.
They work hard to cultivate the fields and cultivate mulberry trees to obtain enough food and clothing, and build cities and towns to defend themselves. Therefore, the people do not practice their offensive skills when they are in a hurry, but they are exhausted from the work when they are relaxed. well!


Chunk 16: 
original: 
嗟土室之人，顾无多辞，令喋喋而佔々，冠固何当？
自是之後，汉使欲辩论者，中行说辄曰： 汉使无多言，顾汉所输匈奴缯絮米糵，令其量中，必善美而己矣，何以为言乎？
且所给备善则已；不备，苦恶，则候秋孰，以骑驰蹂而稼穑耳。
日夜教单于候利害处。
汉孝文皇帝十四年，匈奴单于十四万骑入朝、萧关，杀北地都尉卬，虏人民畜产甚多，遂至彭阳。使奇兵入烧回中宫，候骑至雍甘泉。
於是文帝以中尉周舍、郎中令张武为将军，发车千乘，骑十万，军长安旁以备胡寇。
而拜昌侯卢卿为上郡将军，甯侯魏为北地将军，隆虑侯周灶为陇西将军，东阳侯张相如为大将军，成侯董赤为前将军，大发车骑往击胡。
单于留塞内月馀乃去，汉逐出塞即还，不能有所杀。
匈奴日已骄，岁入边，杀略人民畜产甚多，云中、辽东最甚，至代郡万馀人。
汉患之，乃使使遗匈奴书。单于亦使当户报谢，复言和亲事。
孝文帝後二年，使使遗匈奴书曰： 皇帝敬问匈奴大单于无恙。
使当户且居雕渠难、郎中韩辽遗朕马二匹，已至，敬受。
先帝制：长城以北，引弓之国，受命单于；长城以内，冠带之室，朕亦制之。
translation: 
For the Han people who live in houses made of earth and stone, don't talk too much, chatter endlessly, whisper strictly, and wear hats. Is there anything else that's so great about it?
From then on, when the envoys of the Han Dynasty wanted to argue, the Bank of China said: The envoys of the Han Dynasty should not talk too much. They only want to think about the rice tillers sent by the Han Dynasty to the Xiongnu. They must make sure they are of sufficient quantity and good quality. Why talk?
Moreover, the things supplied to the Xiongnu must be complete and beautiful. If they are incomplete and poor, then when the crops mature, the Xiongnu will ride on their horses and trample your crops that are ripe for harvest.
The Bank of China said that he taught Shanyu day and night to wait for a favorable opportunity and place to attack.
In the fourteenth year of Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, the Xiongnu Chanyu led 140,000 cavalrymen to attack Chao and Xiaoguan. They killed Sun Xuan, the captain of the North, and plundered many people and livestock. They then arrived in Pengyang and sent a commando to attack the Huizhong Palace and burn it down.
The Xiongnu reconnaissance cavalry arrived at Ganquan Palace in Yongdi. So Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty appointed Lieutenant Zhou She and Lang Zhongling Zhang Wu as generals, and sent thousands of chariots and 100,000 cavalry to guard Chang'an to defend against the Huns' intrusion.
At the same time, he appointed Changhou Luqing as the general of Shangjun, Ninghou Wei Tian as the northern general, Longluhou Zhouzao as the longxi general, Dongyanghou Zhang Xiangru as the general, Chenghou Dong Chi as the former general, and sent a large number of chariots and cavalry to attack the Xiongnu.
The Xiongnu Chanyu stayed within the Han Dynasty's frontier fortress for more than a month and then left. The Han Dynasty's soldiers and horses chased them outside the fortress and returned to the fortress, but failed to kill the enemy.
The Xiongnu became more and more proud day by day. Every year they broke into the border, killing and plundering many people and livestock. Yunzhong County and Liaodong County suffered the most serious damage. Together with Dai County, a total of more than 10,000 people were killed and plundered.
The Han Dynasty was worried about this, so it sent an envoy to send a letter to the Xiongnu. The Shanyu also sent a person to Han to deliver the letter to express his gratitude. The two sides discussed the marriage again.
In the second year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, he sent an envoy to send a message to the Xiongnu: The emperor wishes to ask the Xiongnu for peace.
You sent me the two horses that you sent to me, including Diaoqunan and the doctor Han Liao. They have arrived and I accept them respectfully.
The first emperor of the Han Dynasty stipulated that north of the Great Wall was the country of those who drew bows and arrows, and was under the jurisdiction of the Chanyu. Within the Great Wall is the home of the one who wears the crown and girdle, and I want to control it too.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
使万民耕织射猎衣食，父子无离，臣主相安，俱无暴逆。
今闻渫恶民贪降其进取之利，倍义绝约，忘万民之命，离两主之驩，然其事已在前矣。
书曰： 二国已和亲，两主驩说，寝兵休卒养马，世世昌乐，闟然更始。
朕甚嘉之。
圣人者日新，改作更始，使老者得息，幼者得长，各保其首领而终其天年。
朕与单于俱由此道，顺天恤民，世世相传，施之无穷，天下莫不咸便。
汉与匈奴邻国之敌，匈奴处北地，寒，杀气早降，故诏吏遗单于秫糵金帛丝絮佗物岁有数。
今天下大安，万民熙熙，朕与单于为之父母。
朕追念前事，薄物细故，谋臣计失，皆不足以离兄弟之驩。
朕闻天不颇覆，地不偏载。朕与单于皆捐往细故，俱蹈大道，堕坏前恶，以图长久，使两国之民若一家子。
元元万民，下及鱼鳖，上及飞鸟，跂行喙息蠕动之类，莫不就安利而辟危殆。
translation: 
It is necessary to allow all people to farm, weave, and hunt to obtain food and clothing, so that father and son are not separated, the monarch and his subjects feel at ease with each other, and there is no tyranny or rebellion.
Now I hear that the evil people are greedy for plundering profits, violate morality, break the peace treaty, forget the lives of millions of people, and alienate the friendship between the two monarchs, but these are things in the past.
Your letter said: The two countries have made peace, and the kings of both countries are happy. The war has ceased, the soldiers have rested, and the horses have been fed. Prosperity and happiness have been achieved for generations, and the situation of stability and happiness has begun again.
I especially appreciate this idea.
A sage person can make new progress every day, correct his shortcomings, and start over, so that the elderly can be taken care of, and the young can grow up, and each can maintain life and spend their life.
Both Shanyu and I follow this principle, comply with God's will, appease the people, pass it on from generation to generation, and continue it forever, and everyone in the world will benefit.
The Han Dynasty and the Xiongnu were neighboring countries with comparable power. The Xiongnu were located in the north, where the weather was cold and the murderous spirit arrived earlier. Therefore, I ordered the officials to give Shanyu a certain amount of tillers, gold, silk, silk and other items every year.
Today, the world is particularly peaceful and all people are happy. Shan and I are their parents.
When I think back on things in the past, they are all trivial things, caused by the mistakes of counselors, and they are not enough to alienate the friendship between brothers.
I heard that the sky will not only cover one side, nor will the earth only support one place. The Chanyu and I must abandon the small misunderstandings in the past, act according to the upright principles, eliminate the previous unhappiness, consider the long-term interests of the two countries, and make the two peoples like children of the same family.
Thousands of kind-hearted people, as well as the fish and turtles in the water, the birds in the sky, and the various beasts and insects crawling, panting, and squirming on the ground, all seek a safe and beneficial living environment and avoid danger.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
故来者不止，天之道也。
俱去前事：朕释逃虏民，单于无言章尼等。
朕闻古之帝王，约分明而无食言。
单于留志，天下大安，和亲之後，汉过不先。
单于其察之。
单于既约和亲，於是制诏御史曰： 匈奴大单于遗朕书，言和亲已定，亡人不足以益众广地，匈奴无入塞，汉无出塞，犯约者杀之，可以久亲，後无咎，俱便。朕已许之。
其布告天下，使明知之。
後四岁，老上稽粥单于死，子军臣立为单于。
既立，孝文皇帝复与匈奴和亲。
而中行说复事之。
军臣单于立四岁，匈奴复绝和亲，大入上郡、云中各三万骑，所杀略甚众而去。
translation: 
Therefore, those who come to submit will not be stopped. This is a matter of course.
The past events will not be forgotten. I will absolve the Han people who fled to the Huns from their guilt, and Shan Yu will not mention Zhang Ni and others who fled to the Han Dynasty again.
I heard that ancient emperors made treaties with clear terms and never reneged on them.
I hope that if Shanyu pays attention to the covenant, the world will be particularly peaceful. After the marriage, the Han Dynasty would not be the first to break the contract.
Please Shanyu look into this matter clearly.
The Chanyu had signed a peace treaty, so Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty ordered the censor to say: The Xiongnu Great Chanyu sent me a letter saying that the peace has been confirmed, and the number of people who have fled is not enough to increase the population and expand the land. From now on, the Huns will no longer break into the border fortress, and the Han Dynasty people will not go out of the border fortress. Those who violate the current treaty will be put to death. This can maintain close and friendly relations for a long time, and no harm will occur in the future, which is beneficial to both parties. I have agreed to his request.
I hope that a notice will be issued across the country to let people know about this matter.
In the fourth year after Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, the old Shanyu Shanyu died, and his son Junchen succeeded him as the Shanyu.
After the military minister Chanyu succeeded to the throne, Emperor Xiaowen once again made peace with the Huns.
But Zhongxing said that he still served the military minister Chanyu.
Four years after Shanyu, the military minister, took the throne, the Xiongnu broke off their fraternal relations and launched a large-scale attack on Shangjun and Yunzhongjun. They sent 30,000 cavalry, killed many Han people, plundered a large amount of property, and left.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
於是汉使三将军军屯北地，代屯句注，赵屯飞狐口，缘边亦各坚守以备胡寇。
又置三将军，军长安西细柳、渭北棘门、霸上以备胡。
胡骑入代句注边，烽火通於甘泉、长安。
数月，汉兵至边，匈奴亦去远塞，汉兵亦罢。
後岁馀，孝文帝崩，孝景帝立，而赵王遂乃阴使人於匈奴。
吴楚反，欲与赵合谋入边。
汉围破赵，匈奴亦止。
自是之後，孝景帝复与匈奴和亲，通关市，给遗匈奴，遣公主，如故约。
终孝景时，时小入盗边，无大寇。
今帝即位，明和亲约束，厚遇，通关市，饶给之。
匈奴自单于以下皆亲汉，往来长城下。
translation: 
So the Han Dynasty sent three generals, including Zhang Wu, to garrison in Beidi, Dai in Juzhu, and Zhao in Feikou. They also sent troops to guard the border areas to guard against the Huns' invasion.
Three generals, including Zhou Yafu, were also stationed at Xiliu to the west of Chang'an, Jimen and Bashang on the north bank of the Wei River to defend against the Xiongnu.
The Huns cavalry invaded the border of Daidijuzhu, and the beacon fire led to Ganquan and Chang'an.
A few months later, the Han Dynasty soldiers and horses came to the border, and the Xiongnu left the border fortress far away, and the Han Dynasty army gave up.
More than a year later, Emperor Xiaowen died and Emperor Xiaojing succeeded to the throne. King Liu Sui of Zhao secretly sent people to contact the Huns.
When Wu, Chu and other seven countries rebelled, the Xiongnu wanted to unite with Zhao and invade the frontier fortress.
Later, the Han Dynasty besieged and defeated Zhao State, and the Xiongnu also stopped invading.
From then on, Emperor Xiaojing made peace with the Xiongnu, exchanged customs and markets with each other, gave gifts to the Xiongnu, sent a princess to marry the Shanyu, and acted in accordance with the previous covenant.
Until the death of Emperor Xiaojing, although the Xiongnu had small border harassment activities from time to time, there were no major invasions.
The current emperor, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, succeeded to the throne, affirmed the provisions of the marriage, treated the Hungarian power leniently, exchanged customs and markets, and presented a large amount of property.
From the Chanyu to the common people, the Xiongnu were close to the Han Dynasty and traveled under the Great Wall.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
汉使马邑下人聂翁壹奸兰出物与匈奴交，详为卖马邑城以诱单于。
单于信之，而贪马邑财物，乃以十万骑入武州塞。
汉伏兵三十馀万马邑旁，御史大夫韩安国为护军，护四将军以伏单于。
单于既入汉塞，未至马邑百馀里，见畜布野而无人牧者，怪之，乃攻亭。
是时雁门尉史行徼，见寇，葆此亭，知汉兵谋，单于得，欲杀之，尉史乃告单于汉兵所居。
单于大惊曰： 吾固疑之。
乃引兵还。
出曰： 吾得尉史，天也，天使若言。
以尉史为 天王 。
汉兵约单于入马邑而纵，单于不至，以故汉兵无所得。
汉将军王恢部出代击胡辎重，闻单于还，兵多，不敢出。
汉以恢本造兵谋而不进，斩恢。
translation: 
The Han Dynasty sent Nie Wengyi of Mayi City to deliberately violate the ban and transport goods to trade with the Xiongnu, pretending to sell Mayi City to lure the Chanyu.
Chanyu believed this and was greedy for Mayi City's property, so he sent 100,000 cavalry to invade the Wuzhou frontier fortress.
At this time, the Han Dynasty ambushed more than 300,000 troops near Mayi City. Han Anguo, the imperial censor, served as the guard general, guarding four generals and preparing to ambush Shanyu.
Shanyu had already entered the Han Dynasty's frontier fortress, and was still more than a hundred miles away from the city of Mayi. He was surprised to see livestock everywhere but no one grazing them, so he went to attack the Han Dynasty's reconnaissance outpost.
At this time, the Wei Shi of Yanmen County was patrolling. When he saw the enemy, he protected the reconnaissance post. He knew the Han Dynasty's plan. Shan Yu captured Wei Shi and wanted to kill him, so Wei Shi reported to Shan Yu the location of the ambush of the Han army.
Shanyu was shocked and said: I was suspicious about this matter.
So Shanyu led his troops back.
When he walked out of the border, he said: It is God's will that I get Wei Shi. God asked you to report to me.
Just make Wei Shi the King of Heaven.
The Han army had agreed that after Shan Yu entered Mayi City, he would let his soldiers attack and kill him. Now the Chanyu has not arrived at Mayi, so the Han army has gained nothing.
The Han Dynasty general Wang Hui's army came out of Daijun to attack the Xiongnu's baggage. He heard that the Chanyu army had returned and there were many soldiers, so he did not dare to attack.
The Han Dynasty believed that Wang Hui was the one who planned the ambush but did not dare to attack, so he killed Wang Hui.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
自是之後，匈奴绝和亲，攻当路塞，往往入盗於汉边，不可胜数。
然匈奴贪，尚乐关市，嗜汉财物，汉亦尚关市不绝以中之。
自马邑军後五年之秋，汉使四将军各万骑击胡关市下。
将军卫青出上谷，至茏城，得胡首虏七百人。
公孙贺出云中，无所得。
公孙敖出代郡，为胡所败七千馀人。
李广出雁门，为胡所败，而匈奴生得广，广後得亡归。
汉囚敖、广，敖、广赎为庶人。
其冬，匈奴数入盗边，渔阳尤甚。
汉使将军韩安国屯渔阳备胡。
其明年秋，匈奴二万骑入汉，杀辽西太守，略二千馀人。
胡又入败渔阳太守军千馀人，围汉将军安国，安国时千馀骑亦且尽，会燕救至，匈奴乃去。
匈奴又入雁门，杀略千馀人。
於是汉使将军卫青将三万骑出雁门，李息出代郡，击胡。得首虏数千人。
其明年，卫青复出云中以西至陇西，击胡之楼烦、白羊王於河南，得胡首虏数千，牛羊百馀万。
於是汉遂取河南地，筑朔方，复缮故秦时蒙恬所为塞，因河为固。
汉亦弃上谷之什辟县造阳地以予胡。
是岁，汉之元朔二年也。
其後冬，匈奴军臣单于死。
军臣单于弟左谷蠡王伊稚斜自立为单于，攻破军臣单于太子於单。
於单亡降汉，汉封於单为涉安侯，数月而死。
伊稚斜单于既立，其夏，匈奴数万骑入杀代郡太守恭友，略千馀人。
其秋，匈奴又入雁门，杀略千馀人。
translation: 
From then on, the Xiongnu broke off their fraternal relations, attacked the frontier fortresses leading to important roads, and often invaded the Han Dynasty's borders to plunder, too many times to count.
However, the Xiongnu were greedy and still liked to exchange customs and markets with the Han Dynasty. They liked the Han Dynasty's property very much. The Han Dynasty still maintained customs and market trade relations with the Xiongnu and catered to their wishes.
In the autumn of the fifth year after the Mayi military campaign, the Han Dynasty sent Wei Qing and other four generals with 10,000 cavalry each to attack the Xiongnu near Guan City.
General Wei Qing led his troops out of Shanggu County and arrived at Fucheng, where they killed and captured more than 700 Xiongnu people.
Gongsun He led his troops out of Yunzhong County, but gained nothing.
Gongsun Ao led his troops out of Daijun and was defeated by the Xiongnu, losing more than 7,000 people.
Li Guang led his troops out of Yanmen County and was defeated by the Huns. The Huns captured Li Guang alive. Later, Li Guang was able to escape and return to the Han Dynasty.
The Han Dynasty imprisoned Gongsun Ao and Li Guang. Gongsun Ao and Li Guang paid a ransom and became common people.
This winter, the Xiongnu repeatedly broke into the border and plundered, and Yuyang suffered particularly badly.
The Han Dynasty sent General Han Anguo to garrison Yuyang to defend against the Xiongnu.
In the autumn of the next year, 20,000 Xiongnu cavalry invaded the Han Dynasty, killed the prefect of Liaoxi and took away more than 2,000 people.
The Huns invaded Yuyang again, defeated more than a thousand troops of the Yuyang prefect, and besieged Han Anguo, the general of the Han Dynasty. At this time, Han Anguo's more than a thousand cavalry were about to be wiped out. King Yan's reinforcements happened to arrive, and the Huns left.
The Xiongnu invaded Yanmen County again, killing and taking away more than a thousand people.
So the Han Dynasty sent General Wei Qing to lead 30,000 cavalry out of Yanmen. Li Xi led his troops to force out of Dai County and attacked the Huns, killing and capturing thousands of them.
The next year, Wei Qing went out to the west of Yunzhong County and the Longxi area in the west, and attacked Loufan and Aries Wang under the Xiongnu on the south bank of the Yellow River Hetao. He killed and captured thousands of people and obtained more than one million cattle and sheep.
So the Han Dynasty captured the area on the south bank of the Yellow River Hetao, built Shuofang City, and repaired the pass built by Meng Tian of the Qin Dynasty in the past, relying on the Yellow River as a solid defense line.
The Han Dynasty also gave up the twists and turns of Shanggu County and remote counties such as Zaoyang to the Xiongnu.
This year is the second year of Yuanshuo, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
In the winter of the following year, the Xiongnu military official Chanyu died.
The younger brother of the military minister Chanyu, King Zuoguli Yizhixie, established himself as a Chanyu and defeated the military minister Shanyu's prince Yu Shan.
Yu Dan fled and surrendered to the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty named Yu Shan the Marquis of She'an. He died a few months later.
In the summer after Yi Zhixie Chanyu succeeded to the throne, tens of thousands of Xiongnu cavalry invaded Dai County, killed the prefect Gongyou and looted more than a thousand people.
In the autumn of that year, the Xiongnu invaded Yanmen again, killing and taking away more than a thousand people.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
其明年，匈奴又复复入代郡、定襄、上郡，各三万骑，杀略数千人。
匈奴右贤王怨汉夺之河南地而筑朔方，数为寇，盗边，及入河南，侵扰朔方，杀略吏民其众。
其明年春，汉以卫青为大将军，将六将军，十馀万人，出朔方、高阙击胡。
右贤王以为汉兵不能至，饮酒醉，汉兵出塞六七百里，夜围右贤王。
右贤王大惊，脱身逃走，诸精骑往往随後去。
汉得右贤王众男女万五千人，裨小王十馀人。
其秋，匈奴万骑入杀代郡都尉硃英，略千馀人。
其明年春，汉复遣大将军卫青将六将军，兵十馀万骑，乃再出定襄数百里击匈奴，得首虏前後凡万九千馀级，而汉亦亡两将军，军三千馀骑。
右将军建得以身脱，而前将军翕侯赵信兵不利，降匈奴。
赵信者，故胡小王，降汉，汉封为翕侯，以前将军与右将军并军分行，独遇单于兵，故尽没。
单于既得翕侯，以为自次王，用其姊妻之，与谋汉。
信教单于益北绝幕，以诱罢汉兵，徼极而取之，无近塞。
单于从其计。
translation: 
The next year, the Huns sent 30,000 cavalry to attack Daijun, Dingxiang, and Shangjun respectively, killing and taking away thousands of people.
King Youxian of the Xiongnu resented the Han Dynasty for taking away the land on the south bank of the Yellow River Hetao and building Shuofang City, so he repeatedly invaded and looted at the border. He also invaded the south bank of the Hetao, harassed Shuofang City, and killed and robbed many officials and civilians.
In the spring of the next year, the Han Dynasty appointed Wei Qing as the general, commanded six generals and more than 100,000 troops, and went out of Shuofang and Gaoque to attack the Xiongnu.
King Youxian thought that the Han soldiers could not come, so he got drunk. The Han soldiers went six to seven hundred miles outside the wall and surrounded King Youxian at night.
King Youxian was shocked and ran away, followed by many elite cavalry.
The Han Dynasty captured 15,000 men and women under King Youxian and more than ten people of King Xiao.
In the autumn of this year, 10,000 Xiongnu cavalry invaded Daijun, killed Zhu Ying, the commander of Daijun, and looted more than a thousand people.
In the spring of the next year, the Han Dynasty sent General Wei Qing to lead six generals and more than 100,000 cavalry. They once again traveled hundreds of miles from Dingxiang to attack the Huns. They killed and captured more than 19,000 people. The Han Dynasty also lost two generals and more than 3,000 cavalry under their command.
The right general Su Jian was able to escape alone, but the former general Xihou Zhao Xin was in trouble and surrendered to the Huns.
Zhao Xin was originally a small king of the Xiongnu. He surrendered to the Han Dynasty, and the Han Dynasty made him a Marquis of Xi. Because the former general and the right general merged their armies, and marched separately from the large army, he met Shan Yu's army alone, so the whole army was destroyed.
Now that Shanyu had obtained the Marquis of Xi, he made him the second king, married his sister to him, and discussed with him how to deal with the Han Dynasty.
Zhao Xinjiao Chanyu moved further north, crossing the desert, in order to lure the Han army and make them tired, and then attack them when they are extremely tired, and do not go to the Han Dynasty's frontier fortress.
Shanyu listened to his plan.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
其明年，胡骑万人入上谷，杀数百人。
其明年春，汉使骠骑将军去病将万骑出陇西，过焉支山千馀里，击匈奴，得胡首虏万八千馀级，破得休屠王祭天金人。
其夏，骠骑将军复与合骑侯数万骑出陇西、北地二千里，击匈奴。
过居延，攻祁连山，得胡首虏三万馀人，裨小王以下七十馀人。
是时匈奴亦来入代郡、雁门，杀略数百人。
汉使博望侯及李将军广出右北平，击匈奴左贤王。
左贤王围李将军，卒可四千人，且尽，杀虏亦过当。
会博望侯军救至，李将军得脱。
汉失亡数千人，合骑侯後骠骑将军期，及与博望侯皆当死，赎为庶人。
其秋，单于怒浑邪王、休屠王居西方为汉所杀虏数万人，欲召诛之。
浑邪王与休屠王恐，谋降汉，汉使骠骑将军往迎之。
浑邪王杀休屠王，并将其众降汉。
凡四万馀人，号十万。
於是汉已得浑邪王，则陇西、北地、河西益少胡寇，徙关东贫民处所夺匈奴河南、新秦中以实之，而减北地以西戍卒半。
其明年，匈奴入右北平、定襄各数万骑，杀略千馀人而去。
translation: 
The next year, 10,000 Xiongnu cavalry invaded Shanggu County and killed hundreds of Han people.
In the spring of the next year, the Han Dynasty sent Hussar General Huo Qubing and led 10,000 cavalry out of Longxi, crossed Yanzhi Mountain for more than a thousand miles, attacked the Xiongnu, killed and captured more than 18,000 Xiongnu, defeated King Xiutu, and obtained the Golden Man to worship the sky.
In the summer of this year, General Hussar and Marquis Heqi led tens of thousands of cavalry out of Longxi and the north for more than 2,000 miles to attack the Xiongnu.
After passing Juyan, they attacked the Qilian Mountains and killed and captured more than 30,000 Xiongnu people, including more than 70 people below King Bi Xiaowang.
At this time, the Xiongnu also invaded Daijun and Yanmenjun, killing and robbing hundreds of people.
The Han Dynasty sent Bowang Hou Zhang Qian and General Li Guang out of Youbeiping to attack the Xiongnu Zuoxian King.
King Zuo Xian besieged General Li. General Li's soldiers, about 4,000 strong, were about to be wiped out, but the number of Huns killed by General Li's army exceeded the losses of his own army.
Just as reinforcements from Bowang Hou arrived, General Li was able to escape.
The Han Dynasty suffered thousands of casualties. Heqihou delayed the date set by General Hussar, so he and Bowanghou Zhang Qian were both sentenced to death, paid a ransom, and became civilians.
In the autumn of this year, Chanyu was angry about the fact that King Hunxie and King Xiutu lived in the west and were killed and captured tens of thousands by the Han Dynasty. He wanted to summon them and kill them.
King Hunxie and King Xiutu were frightened and plotted to surrender to the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty sent hussar generals to meet them.
King Hunxie killed King Xiutu, merged his army, and led the army to surrender to the Han Dynasty.
There are more than 40,000 people in total, known as one hundred thousand.
Therefore, since the Han Dynasty accepted King Hunxie's surrender, Longxi, Beidi, and Hexi were less and less intruded by the Xiongnu. They began to move the poor people in Guandong to the south bank of the Hetao and the new Qinzhong area that were recaptured from the Xiongnu, enriching the population here, and reducing the garrison west of the Northland by half.
The next year, the Xiongnu sent tens of thousands of cavalry to Beiping and Dingxiang to invade, killing and plundering more than a thousand people.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
其明年春，汉谋曰 翕侯信为单于计，居幕北，以为汉兵不能至 。
乃粟马发十万骑，私从马凡十四万匹，粮重不与焉。令大将军青、骠骑将军去病中分军，大将军出定襄，骠骑将军出代，咸约绝幕击匈奴。
单于闻之，远其辎重，以精兵待於幕北。
与汉大将军接战一日，会暮，大风起，汉兵纵左右翼围单于。
单于自度战不能如汉兵，单于遂独身与壮骑数百溃汉围西北遁走。
汉兵夜追不得。
行斩捕匈奴首虏万九千级，北至阗颜山赵信城而还。
单于之遁走，其兵往往与汉兵相乱而随单于。
单于久不与其大众相得，其右谷蠡王以为单于死，乃自立为单于。
真单于复得其众，而右谷蠡王乃去其单于号，复为右谷蠡王。
汉骠骑将军之出代二千馀里，与左贤王接战，汉兵得胡首虏凡七万馀级，左贤王将皆遁走。
骠骑封於狼居胥山，禅姑衍，临翰海而还。
translation: 
In the spring of the next year, the Han Dynasty monarchs and ministers planned to deal with the Xiongnu. They said: "Zhao Xin, the Marquis of Xi, proposed a plan to Shanyu to live north of the desert, thinking that the Han Dynasty army could not reach it."
They fed the horses with corn, sent out 100,000 cavalry, and added 140,000 people who volunteered to bear food and horses to go with the army. The food and baggage were not within this number. They ordered the general Wei Qing and the hussar general Huo Qubing to divide the army equally. The general led his troops out of Dingxiang, and the hussar general led his troops out of Daijun. They both agreed to cross the desert to attack the Xiongnu.
When Shanyu heard the news, he sent the baggage far away and led his elite troops to guard Mobei.
The Xiongnu fought with the army of General Wei Qing for a day. At sunset, a strong wind blew, and the Han army quickly besieged Shanyu from the left and right flanks.
Shanyu himself was sure that he would not be able to defeat the Han army, so he alone and hundreds of strong cavalry broke through the Han army's encirclement and fled northwest.
The Han army chased him at night but failed to catch him.
However, during the march, 19,000 Huns were killed or captured alive. When they reached Zhao Xincheng in Tianyan Mountain in the north, they retreated.
When Shanyu fled, his army often fought with the Han army and tried to follow Shanyu.
The Chanyu had not seen his large army for a long time. His right king, Gu Li, thought that the Chanyu was dead and established himself as the Chanyu.
The real Chanyu found his army again, so King Youguli automatically removed his title of King Chanyu and assumed the title of King Youguli again.
Huo Qubing, the hussar general of the Han Dynasty, traveled more than 2,000 miles from Dai County and fought with King Zuoxian. The Han army killed and captured more than 70,000 Huns in total. King Zuoxian and his generals all fled.
General Hussar worshiped heaven at Langjuxu Mountain, worshiped land at Guyan Mountain, and held the ceremony of enshrining Zen. He did not return to his army until Hanhai.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
是後匈奴远遁，而幕南无王庭。
汉度河自朔方以西至令居，往往通渠置田，官吏卒五六万人，稍蚕食，地接匈奴以北。
初，汉两将军大出围单于，所杀虏八九万，而汉士卒物故亦数万，汉马死者十馀万。
匈奴虽病，远去，而汉亦马少，无以复往。
匈奴用赵信之计，遣使於汉，好辞请和亲。
天子下其议，或言和亲，或言遂臣之。
丞相长史任敞曰： 匈奴新破，困，宜可使为外臣，朝请於边。
汉使任敞於单于。
单于闻敞计，大怒，留之不遣。
先是汉亦有所降匈奴使者，单于亦辄留汉使相当。
汉方复收士马，会骠骑将军去病死，於是汉久不北击胡。
数岁，伊稚斜单于立十三年死，子乌维立为单于。
是岁，汉元鼎三年也。
乌维单于立，而汉天子始出巡郡县。
其後汉方南诛两越，不击匈奴，匈奴亦不侵入边。
乌维单于立三年，汉已灭南越，遣故太仆贺将万五千骑出九原二千馀里，至浮苴井而还，不见匈奴一人。
汉又遣故从骠侯赵破奴万馀骑出令居数千里，至匈河水而还，亦不见匈奴一人。
translation: 
After that, the Xiongnu fled far away, and there was no royal court of the Xiongnu south of the desert.
The Han Dynasty army crossed the Yellow River and headed west from Shuo to Lingju. They often built ditches and cultivated fields there. There were 50,000 to 60,000 officials and soldiers. They gradually encroached on the land in the north, and the territory was close to the north of the Xiongnu's old land.
At the beginning, the two generals of the Han Dynasty sent out large-scale troops to besiege Shanyu, killing and capturing eighty or ninety thousand people. Tens of thousands of Han soldiers also died, and more than one hundred thousand horses of the Han Dynasty died.
Although the Xiongnu were exhausted and fled away, the Han Dynasty could no longer pursue them because of the lack of horses.
The Xiongnu adopted Zhao Xin's strategy and sent envoys to the Han Dynasty to put in good words and ask for peace.
The emperor of the Han Dynasty handed over this issue to his ministers for discussion. Some people said that they would make peace with each other, while others said that they would take the opportunity to make the Xiongnu surrender to the Han Dynasty.
Prime Minister Ren Chang said: The Xiongnu have just suffered a defeat and are in a difficult situation. They should be allowed to serve as foreign ministers and come to the border to worship the emperor every spring and autumn.
The Han Dynasty sent Ren Chang as an envoy to the Xiongnu to meet the Chanyu.
Chanyu was furious after hearing Ren Chang's plan, and detained him in the Huns, preventing him from returning to the Han Dynasty.
Prior to this, the Han Dynasty had also surrendered the Huns' envoys, and the Chanyu also detained the Han Dynasty's envoys to compensate.
The Han Dynasty was re-gathering soldiers and horses, and it happened that Hussar General Huo Qubing died of illness, so the Han Dynasty did not go north to attack the Xiongnu for a long time.
A few years later, Yi Zhixie passed away in the 13th year after taking the throne, and his son Uwe succeeded as the Chanyu.
This year was the third year of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
Uwe Chanyu succeeded to the throne, and the Emperor of the Han Dynasty began to go out of the capital to inspect counties.
After that, the Han Dynasty was killing Nanyue and Dongyue in the south, but did not attack the Huns, and the Huns did not invade the Han border.
Three years after Uwe Shanyu succeeded to the throne, the Han Dynasty had already destroyed South Vietnam, so he sent Sun He, the former imperial servant, to lead 15,000 cavalry out of Jiuyuan for more than 2,000 miles, and only retreated when they reached Futou Well. No Huns were seen.
The Han Dynasty then sent its original subordinate Zhao Ponu to lead more than 10,000 cavalry out of the land of Lingju, which was thousands of miles away. They only withdrew when they reached the water of the Xiong River, but did not see a single Huns.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
是时天子巡边，至朔方，勒兵十八万骑以见武节，而使郭吉风告单于。
郭吉既至匈奴，匈奴主客问所使，郭吉礼卑言好，曰： 吾见单于而口言。
单于见吉，吉曰： 南越王头已悬於汉北阙。
今单于即前与汉战，天子自将兵待边；单于即不能，即南面而臣於汉。
何徒远走，亡匿於幕北寒苦无水草之地，毋为也。
语卒而单于大怒，立斩主客见者，而留郭吉不归，迁之北海上。
而单于终不肯为寇於汉边，休养息士马，习射猎，数使使於汉，好辞甘言求请和亲。
汉使王乌等窥匈奴。
匈奴法，汉使非去节而以墨黥其面者不得入穹庐。
王乌，北地人，习胡俗，去其节，黥面，得入穹庐。
translation: 
At this time, the emperor inspected the border and arrived at Shuofang County. He commanded 180,000 cavalry to show his military might. He also sent Guo Ji to inform Shanyu tactfully.
When Guo Ji arrived at the Huns, the host and guest of the Huns asked him about his mission. Guo Ji bowed humbly and said some kind words, saying: I will speak to Shanyu personally when I see him.
Chanyu met with Guo Ji, who said: The head of the King of Nanyue has been hung on the North Tower of the capital of the Han Dynasty.
Now if the Chanyu can go to fight the Han army, the emperor will personally lead the troops and wait for you at the border; if the Chanyu cannot go, he should face the south and declare himself a vassal of the Han Dynasty.
Why run away in vain, hiding in a cold, difficult place with no water and grass to the north of the desert, and doing nothing?
After he finished speaking, Shanyu became furious and immediately killed the host and guest who allowed Guo Ji to come in. He also detained Guo Ji and refused to allow him to return to the Han Dynasty. He moved him to Beihai.
The Chanyu also refused to go to the Han Dynasty border to invade and plunder. He only rested his soldiers and horses, practiced archery and hunting skills, and sent envoys to the Han Dynasty many times to put in good words and ask for peace.
The Han Dynasty sent Wang Wu and others to spy on the Xiongnu.
The laws of the Xiongnu stipulated that Han Dynasty envoys could not enter the felt tent unless they gave up the knot and tattooed their faces with ink.
Wang Wu was from the north and was familiar with the customs of the Huns, so he gave up the festival and tattooed his face with ink, so he entered the felt tent.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
单于爱之，详许甘言，为遣其太子入汉为质，以求和亲。
汉使杨信於匈奴。
是时汉东拔秽貉、朝鲜以为郡，而西置酒泉郡以鬲绝胡与羌通之路。
汉又西通月氏、大夏，又以公主妻乌孙王，以分匈奴西方之援国。
又北益广田至胘雷为塞，而匈奴终不敢以为言。
是岁，翕侯信死，汉用事者以匈奴为已弱，可臣从也。
杨信为人刚直屈彊，素非贵臣，单于不亲。
单于欲召入，不肯去节，单于乃坐穹庐外见杨信。
杨信既见单于，说曰： 即欲和亲，以单于太子为质於汉。
单于曰： 非故约。
故约，汉常遣翁主，给缯絮食物有品，以和亲，而匈奴亦不扰边。
今乃欲反古，令吾太子为质，无几矣。
translation: 
Shanyu liked him, pretended to make a promise with good words, and sent the prince to the Han Dynasty as a hostage, in order to ask for peace with the Han Dynasty.
The Han Dynasty sent Yang Xin to the Xiongnu.
At this time, the Han Dynasty captured Gura and Korea in the east and established counties, while Jiuquan County was set up in the west to isolate the Xiongnu and Qiang people.
The Han Dynasty also went west to communicate with the Yueshi and Daxia, and married the princess to King Wusun as his wife, in order to alienate the relationship between the Xiongnu and the Western aiding countries.
The Han Dynasty expanded its fields to the north and reached Pinglei, which served as a frontier fortress. The Huns never dared to express dissatisfaction with this.
In this year, Xihou Zhao Xin died. Officials of the Han Dynasty thought that the Xiongnu were weakened and could be turned into vassals.
Yang Xin was an upright and stubborn man. He had never been a noble minister in the Han Dynasty, and the Chanyu did not get close to him.
The Chanyu wanted to summon him to the felt tent, but he refused to give up the knot, so the Chanyu sat outside the felt tent to receive Yang Xin.
After Yang Xin saw Shan Yu, he said: If he wants to make peace, he will send Prince Shan Yu to the Han Dynasty as a hostage.
Shanyu said: This is not the previous covenant.
The old treaty stipulated that the Han Dynasty often sent princesses to the Xiongnu, and also sent different quantities of silk cloth, silk cotton and food to make peace with the Xiongnu, and the Xiongnu did not harass the Han Dynasty's borders.
Now I have violated the ancient covenant and asked my prince to be a hostage. If I do this, there is no hope of getting married.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
匈奴俗，见汉使非中贵人，其儒先，以为欲说，折其辩；其少年，以为欲刺，折其气。
每汉使入匈奴，匈奴辄报偿。
汉留匈奴使，匈奴亦留汉使，必得当乃肯止。
杨信既归，汉使王乌，而单于复以甘言，欲多得汉财物，绐谓王乌曰： 吾欲入汉见天子，面相约为兄弟。
王乌归报汉，汉为单于筑邸于长安。
匈奴曰： 非得汉贵人使，吾不与诚语。
匈奴使其贵人至汉，病，汉予药，欲愈之，不幸而死。
而汉使路充国佩二千石印绶往使，因送其丧，厚葬直数千金，曰 此汉贵人也 。
单于以为汉杀吾贵使者，乃留路充国不归。
诸所言者，单于特空绐王乌，殊无意入汉及遣太子来质。
於是匈奴数使奇兵侵犯边。
汉乃拜郭昌为拔胡将军，及浞野侯屯朔方以东，备胡。
路充国留匈奴三岁，单于死。
乌维单于立十岁而死，子乌师庐立为单于。
年少，号为兒单于。
是岁元封六年也。
translation: 
According to the custom of the Xiongnu, when the Han Dynasty envoy is not a favored eunuch in the palace, but a Confucian scholar, he will think that he is here to lobby, so he will try to refute his rhetoric; if he is a young man, he will think that he is here to accuse the Xiongnu, and he will try to thwart his momentum.
Every time an envoy from the Han Dynasty came to the Xiongnu, the Xiongnu always wanted to reward him.
If the Han Dynasty detains the Xiongnu envoys, and the Huns also detain the Han Dynasty envoys, the number of people detained by both sides must be equal before they stop.
After Yang Xin returned to the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty sent Wang Wu as an envoy to the Xiongnu, and the Chanyu flattered him with good words. He wanted to get more property from the Han Dynasty, so he deceived Wang Wu and said: I want to visit the emperor in the Han Dynasty, make a treaty with each other, and become brothers.
Wang Wu returned and reported to the Han Dynasty, and the Han Dynasty built an official residence for Chanyu in Chang'an.
The Xiongnu said: If I don't see the distinguished person of the Han Dynasty acting as an envoy, I won't tell him the truth.
The Xiongnu sent one of his nobles as envoys to the Han Dynasty and fell ill. The Han Dynasty gave him medicine in an attempt to cure his illness, but unfortunately he died.
Lu Chongguo, the envoy of the Han Dynasty, wore a seal of two thousand stones and went to the Xiongnu as an envoy. He also escorted his funeral procession. The funeral expenses were generous and worth thousands of gold. He said: This is a nobleman of the Han Dynasty.
The Chanyu believed that the Han Dynasty had killed my distinguished envoy, so he detained Lu Chongguo and refused to allow him to return to the Han Dynasty.
What Shan Yu said was just to deceive Wang Wu in vain. He had no intention of going to the Han Dynasty to pay homage to the emperor, and he had no intention of sending the prince to the Han Dynasty as a hostage.
So the Xiongnu repeatedly sent commandos to invade the Han Dynasty's borders.
The Han Dynasty appointed Guo Chang as the general to suppress the Hu, and he and the Marquis of Zunye were stationed east of Shuofang to defend against the Xiongnu.
When Lu Chongguo was detained by the Xiongnu for three years, the Shanyu died.
Uwe Chanyu died ten years after he succeeded to the throne, and his son Wu Shilu succeeded him as Chanyu.
Because Wushilu was young, he was called Er Chanyu.
This year is the sixth year of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
自此之後，单于益西北，左方兵直云中，右方直酒泉、燉煌郡。
兒单于立，汉使两使者，一吊单于，一吊右贤王，欲以乖其国。
使者入匈奴，匈奴悉将致单于。
单于怒而尽留汉使。
汉使留匈奴者前後十馀辈，而匈奴使来，汉亦辄留相当。
是岁，汉使贰师将军广利西伐大宛，而令因杅将军敖筑受降城。
其冬，匈奴大雨雪，畜多饥寒死。
兒单于年少，好杀伐，国人多不安。
左大都尉欲杀单于，使人间告汉曰： 我欲杀单于降汉，汉远，即兵来迎我，我即发。
初，汉闻此言，故筑受降城，犹以为远。
其明年春，汉使浞野侯破奴将二万馀骑出朔方西北二千馀里，期至浚稽山而还。
translation: 
From then on, the Chanyu moved more and more northwest, with the army on the left reaching Yunzhong County, and the army on the right reaching Jiuquan and Dunhuang County.
After Er Chanyu succeeded to the throne, the Han Dynasty sent two envoys, one to express condolences to Chanyu and the other to express condolences to King Youxian, hoping to sow a wedge between their monarch and his ministers and cause chaos in the country.
The envoys entered the Huns, and the Huns sent them all to the Chanyu.
Chanyu became angry and detained all the Han envoys.
There were more than ten batches of Han Dynasty envoys detained before and after the Huns. When the Huns envoys came to the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty also detained an equal number of Huns envoys.
In this year, the Han Dynasty sent General Li Guangli of the Second Division to the west to attack Dawan, and ordered General Yinjue Gongsun Ao to build a surrender city.
This winter, it snowed heavily in the Xiongnu, and most of the livestock died of hunger and cold.
Er Chan is young and likes killing people and fighting, which makes most people in the country uneasy.
Captain Zuo wanted to kill Shanyu, so he sent someone to report to the Han Dynasty privately: I want to kill Shanyu and surrender to the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty is far away. If the Han Dynasty sends troops to meet me, I will kill the Shanyu immediately.
At first, the Han Dynasty heard this and built the city of surrender. The emperor thought that the city was far away from the Xiongnu.
In the spring of the next year, the Han sent Zhao Ponu, the Marquis of Zhaoye, and led more than 20,000 cavalry out of the northwest of Shuofang County, more than 2,000 miles away, and agreed to reach Junji Mountain before returning.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
浞野侯既至期而还，左大都尉欲发而觉，单于诛之，发左方兵击浞野。
浞野侯行捕首虏得数千人。
还，未至受降城四百里，匈奴兵八万骑围之。
浞野侯夜自出求水，匈奴间捕，生得浞野侯，因急击其军。
军中郭纵为护，维王为渠，相与谋曰： 及诸校尉畏亡将军而诛之，莫相劝归。
军遂没於匈奴。
匈奴兒单于大喜，遂遣奇兵攻受降城。
不能下，乃寇入边而去。
其明年，单于欲自攻受降城，未至，病死。
兒单于立三岁而死。
子年少，匈奴乃立其季父乌维单于弟右贤王呴犁湖为单于。
是岁太初三年也。
呴犁湖单于立，汉使光禄徐自为出五原塞数百里，远者千馀里，筑城鄣列亭至庐朐，而使游击将军韩说、长平侯卫伉屯其旁，使彊弩都尉路博德筑居延泽上。
其秋，匈奴大入定襄、云中，杀略数千人，败数二千石而去，行破坏光禄所筑城列亭鄣。
又使右贤王入酒泉、张掖，略数千人。
会任文击救，尽复失所得而去。
是岁，贰师将军破大宛，斩其王而还。
匈奴欲遮之，不能至。
其冬，欲攻受降城，会单于病死。
呴犁湖单于立一岁死。匈奴乃立其弟左大都尉且鞮侯为单于。
汉既诛大宛，威震外国。
translation: 
Hou Yehou arrived at the appointed place on time and then came back. Lieutenant Zuo wanted to kill Chanyu but was discovered. Shanyu killed him and sent troops from the left to attack Houye Yehou.
Hou Yehou hunted and killed thousands of Xiongnu people as he walked.
When the Marquis of Zunye returned to a place four hundred miles away from Shouxiang City, 80,000 Xiongnu cavalry besieged him.
Zhao Yehou went out to find water alone at night. The Huns secretly searched for him, captured Zhao Yehou alive, and took the opportunity to attack his army.
Guo Zong in the Han army served as the guard, and King Wei served as the leader of the Xiongnu troops. The two discussed: Don't persuade each other to return to the Han Dynasty while the captains are afraid that they will be killed by the Hanjun if they lose their generals.
The Han army was trapped by the Xiongnu.
The Xiongnu Chanyu was overjoyed and sent a commando to attack the surrendered city.
The city was not captured, so they invaded the border fortress and left.
The next year, Chanyu wanted to attack Shujiang City himself, but he died of illness before he could reach Shujiang City.
His son Shanyu died three years after he succeeded to the throne.
When his son was young, the Huns appointed King Youxian, the younger brother of his uncle Uwe Chanyu, as Chanyu.
This year is the third year of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
After the Chanyu of Yali Lake succeeded to the throne, the Han Dynasty sent Guanglu Xu Ziwei to go hundreds of miles away from Wuyuan Fortress and more than a thousand miles away to build small castles and outposts as far as Luqu. It also sent guerrilla general Han Shuo and Changping Houwei and his wife to garrison here, and sent strong crossbow captain Lu Bode to build a castle in Juyanze.
In the autumn of this year, the Xiongnu invaded Dingxiang and Yunzhong on a large scale, killing and plundering thousands of people, and defeated several high-ranking officials with a salary of two thousand dan before leaving. During the march, the castle built by Guanglu Xu Ziwei was destroyed.
He also sent King Youxian to invade Jiuquan and Zhangye and plunder thousands of people.
When the Han Dynasty general Ren Wen intercepted and rescued them, the Xiongnu lost all the Han people they had captured and left.
This year, General Li Guangli of the Second Division conquered Dayuan and killed the King of Dayuan before returning.
The Xiongnu wanted to intercept Li Guangli, but failed to arrive.
In the winter of this year, the Xiongnu wanted to attack Shouxiang City, but Shanyu died of illness.
The Chanyu of Yali Lake died a year after he succeeded to the throne, so the Huns made his younger brother Zuo Dadu Wei and Tutanhou the Chanyu.
After the Han Dynasty killed the King of Dayuan, it shocked foreign countries.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
天子意欲遂困胡，乃下诏曰： 高皇帝遗朕平城之忧，高后时单于书绝悖逆。
昔齐襄公复九世之雠，春秋大之。
是岁太初四年也。
且鞮侯单于既立，尽归汉使之不降者。路充国等得归。
单于初立，恐汉袭之，乃自谓 我兒子，安敢望汉天子！
汉天子，我丈人行也 。
汉遣中郎将苏武厚币赂遗单于。
单于益骄，礼甚倨，非汉所望也。
其明年，浞野侯破奴得亡归汉。
其明年，汉使贰师将军广利以三万骑出酒泉，击右贤王於天山，得胡首虏万馀级而还。匈奴大围贰师将军，几不脱。汉兵物故什六七。
汉复使因杅将军敖出西河，与彊弩都尉会涿涂山，毋所得。
translation: 
The emperor wanted to seize the opportunity to besiege the Xiongnu, so he issued an edict saying: Emperor Gao left me with worries about Pingcheng. When Empress Gao was in power, what Chanyu said in his letter was extremely unreasonable and rebellious.
Once upon a time, Duke Xiang of Qi reported his grudges from nine generations ago, and the "Spring and Autumn Annals" praised him greatly.
This year is the fourth year of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
After Shan Yu, the Marquis of Qi, succeeded to the throne, he sent back the envoys who had been detained by the Han Dynasty and refused to surrender. Lu Chongguo and others returned to the Han Dynasty.
The Chanyu had just succeeded to the throne and was afraid that the Han Dynasty would attack him, so he said to himself: I am a son, how can I dare to compare with the emperor of the Han Dynasty!
The Emperor of Han is my elder.
The Han Dynasty sent Zhonglang Su Wu to send generous gifts to Shanyu.
The Chan Yu became more and more proud and his etiquette was very disrespectful. The Han Dynasty was greatly disappointed.
The next year, Zhao Ponu, the Marquis of Zhaoye, fled from the Xiongnu and returned to the Han Dynasty.
The next year, the Han Dynasty sent General Li Guang of the Second Division to lead 30,000 cavalry out of Jiuquan and attacked King Youxian in the Tianshan Mountains. He killed and captured more than 10,000 Huns. When he came back, the Huns surrounded the General of the Second Division and barely escaped. Sixty-seven out of ten of the Han army died.
The Han Dynasty also sent General Yinjuo Gongsun Ao out of the Xihe area to meet Captain Qiannu at Zhuotu Mountain, but nothing was obtained.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
又使骑都尉李陵将步骑五千人，出居延北千馀里，与单于会，合战，陵所杀伤万馀人，兵及食尽，欲解归，匈奴围陵，陵降匈奴，其兵遂没，得还者四百人。
单于乃贵陵，以其女妻之。
後二岁，复使贰师将军将六万骑，步兵十万，出朔方。
彊弩都尉路博德将万馀人，与贰师会。
游击将军说将步骑三万人，出五原。
因杅将军敖将万骑步兵三万人，出雁门。
匈奴闻，悉远其累重於余吾水北，而单于以十万骑待水南，与贰师将军接战。
贰师乃解而引归，与单于连战十馀日。
贰师闻其家以巫蛊族灭，因并众降匈奴，得来还千人一两人耳。
游击说无所得。
因杅敖与左贤王战，不利，引归。
是岁汉兵之出击匈奴者不得言功多少，功不得御。
有诏捕太医令随但，言贰师将军家室族灭，使广利得降匈奴。
太史公曰：孔氏著春秋，隐桓之间则章，至定哀之际则微，为其切当世之文而罔襃，忌讳之辞也。
世俗之言匈奴者，患其徼一时之权，而务纳其说，以便偏指，不参彼己；将率席中国广大，气奋，人主因以决策，是以建功不深。
尧虽贤，兴事业不成，得禹而九州宁。
translation: 
He also sent the cavalry captain Li Ling with 5,000 infantrymen to go more than a thousand miles north of Juyan and met Chanyu. The two sides fought. Li Ling's army killed and wounded more than 10,000 Xiongnu people. Finally, they ran out of weapons and food. Li Ling wanted to get out of the predicament and return, but the Huns surrounded Li Ling. Li Ling surrendered to the Xiongnu, and his army was destroyed. Only 400 people could return to the Han Dynasty.
The Chanyu then favored Li Ling and married his daughter to Li Ling.
In the second year after this, the Han Dynasty sent General Ershi with 60,000 cavalry and 100,000 infantry out of Shuofang County.
Lu Bode, the strong crossbow captain, led more than 10,000 people to join the general of the second division.
Guerrilla general Han Yue led 30,000 infantry and cavalry people out of Wuyuan.
General Gongsun Ao led 10,000 cavalry and 30,000 infantry out of Yanmen.
When the Xiongnu heard the news, they transferred many of their valuables to the far north of the Yuwushui River. The Shanyu led a hundred thousand cavalry to wait for the Han army south of the Yuwushui River and fight with the general of the Second Division.
The general of the second division left his place, led his troops back, and fought with Shan Yu for more than ten days.
General Ershi heard that his family had been exterminated for the crime of witchcraft, so he surrendered to the Huns together with his army. Only one or two of his troops could return to the Han Dynasty out of a thousand.
Guerrilla general Han Shuo gained nothing.
Because General Gongsun Ao was at war with King Zuoxian, the situation was unfavorable, so he led his troops back to the Han Dynasty.
This year, the Han Dynasty troops who went out of the frontier to fight against the Xiongnu could not say how much they deserved, because their achievements could not compensate for their losses.
The emperor ordered the arrest of the imperial physician Ling Suidan, because it was he who revealed the news that the general's family was exterminated, which led Li Guangli to surrender to the Huns.
Tai Shigong said: Confucius wrote the "Spring and Autumn Annals" in a clear and clear way about the events during the reigns of Lu Yingong and Lu Huan Gong. However, during the Lu Dinggong and Lu Shengong periods, the descriptions were obscure and implicit, because this is a text that is close to contemporary politics but has nothing to praise, and is a taboo word.
The mistake of those secular people who talk about the Xiongnu issue is that they want to gain temporary power by chance, so they devote themselves to making flattery and favoring their one-sided views, without considering the actual situation of the Xiongnu and the Han Dynasty. The generals only relied on the vastness of China's land and strong morale to deal with the Xiongnu. The emperor formulated countermeasures based on these, so the achievements he made were not profound and extensive.
Although Yao was wise, he was unable to complete his great cause on his own. Only after he obtained Dayu did the whole of China enjoy peace.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
且欲兴圣统，唯在择任将相哉！
唯在择任将相哉！
translation: 
If you want to carry forward the tradition of the Great Holy King, you just have to choose and appoint generals!
It just depends on choosing and appointing generals and ministers!


