Chunk 0: 
original: 
宣皇帝讳懿，字仲达，河内温县孝敬里人，姓司马氏。
其先出自帝高阳之子重黎，为夏官祝融，历唐、虞、夏、商，世序其职。
及周，以夏官为司马。其后程柏休父，周宣王时，以世官克平徐方，锡以官族，因而为氏。
楚汉间，司马卬为赵将，与诸侯伐秦。
秦亡，立为殷王，都河内。
汉以其地为郡，子孙遂家焉。
自仰八世，生征西将军钧，字叔平。
钧生豫章太守量，字公度。
量生颍川太守俊，字元异。
俊生京兆尹防，字建公。
帝即防之第二子也。
少有奇节，聪明多大略，博学洽闻，伏膺儒教。
汉末大乱，常慨然有忧天下心。
南阳太守同郡杨俊名知人，见帝，未弱冠，以为非常之器。
尚书清河崔琰与帝兄朗善，亦谓朗曰： 君弟聪亮明允，刚断英特，非子所及也。
汉建安六年，郡举上计掾。
魏武帝为司空，闻而辟之。
translation: 
Emperor Xuan's name was Yi, whose courtesy name was Zhongda. He was from Xiaojingli, Wen County, Henan, and his surname was Sima.
His ancestors were descendants of Chongli, the son of Emperor Gaoyang, namely Xia Guan Zhurong. After experiencing the Tang, Yu, Xia and Shang dynasties, he inherited this official position.
During the reign of King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty, the person who served as Sima of the Xia Dynasty was a man named Cheng Baixiu's father. Because he conquered and pacified Xu Fang as a world official, he was given the family name of Sima.
Therefore, Longmo became their last name. During the Chu and Han Dynasties, Sima Yan was a general who joined the army of the princes in conquering the Se country.
After the fall of the Qin State, it was established as: Mudou, and the king's capital was established in Chi.
He designated the land as a county, and his descendants lived here permanently.
From Sima, the eighth generation descendant, Sima Gou, the general of the Western Conquest, named Shuping.
Sima Gou Sheng invited Tong Taishou to cultivate the land, named Gong Ji.
Dandan was born in Yuanbei, Dankentan, the prefect of Yuanbei, with the courtesy name Wuken.
When Siya was born and fled, Siken fell to Yin, whose name was Jiangong.
Emperor Xuan was Si Yaduo's second son.
Emperor Xuan had extraordinary integrity when he was young. He was smart, bold and had lofty ambitions. He was erudite and devoted to Confucianism.
At the end of the Han Dynasty, the world was in chaos, and Emperor Xuan often lamented and worried about the world.
Nanyang Prefect Dangyu, who was from the same county and was known for being good at identifying talents, met Emperor Xuan, who was underage at the time. He thought Emperor Xuan was an unusually talented person.
Cui Yanyu, a native of Qinghe who served as minister, was a friend of Emperor Xuan's brother Sima Lang. He once said to Sima Lang: Your brother is smart, wise and honest, and his decisive ability is outstanding. He is not comparable to ordinary people.
Six years after the founding of the Imperial Household, the county recommended candidates for the imperial office.
At that time, Yan Gen Zaoxuan invited Sikong to serve. After hearing about Emperor Xuan's reputation, he recruited him.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
帝知汉运方微，不欲屈节曹氏，辞以风痹，不能起居。
魏武使人夜往密刺之，帝坚卧不动。
及魏武为丞相，又辟为文学掾，敕行者曰： 若复盘桓，便收之。
帝惧而就职。
于是，使与太子游处，迁黄门侍郎，转议郎、丞相东曹属，寻转主簿。
从讨张鲁，言于魏武曰： 刘备以诈力虏刘璋，蜀人未附而远争江陵，此机不可失也。
今若曜威汉中，益州震动，进兵临之，势必瓦解。
因此之势，易为功力。
圣人不能违时，亦不失时矣。
魏武曰： 人苦无足，既得陇右，复欲得蜀！
言竟不从。
既而从讨孙权，破之。
军还，权遣使乞降，上表称臣，陈说天命。
魏武帝曰： 此兒欲踞吾著炉炭上邪！
答曰： 汉运垂终，殿下十分天下而有其九，以服事之。
权之称臣，天人之意也。
虞、夏、殷、周不以谦让者，畏天知命也。
魏国既建，迁太子中庶子。
每与大谋，辄有奇策，为太子所信重，与陈群、吴质、硃乐号曰四友。
迁为军司马，言于魏武曰： 昔箕子陈谋，以食为首。
translation: 
Emperor Xuan understood that Yi's fortune was declining, and he was unwilling to lose his integrity and succumb to Tadang, so he declined on the grounds that he had wind paralysis and was unable to eat and live normally.
Wei Genzuo sent a secret agent at night to spy on the situation, but Emperor Xuan lay motionless on the bed.
When Emperor Wu of Wei was appointed prime minister, he summoned Emperor Xuan to be a literary advisor and ordered the people sent there: If he makes excuses again, he will be imprisoned.
Emperor Xuan was afraid and took office.
From then on, Emperor Wu of Wei ordered Emperor Xuan to accompany the prince at all times. He was promoted to the position of Huangmen Shilang, then Yilang, Prime Minister Shu Cao's family, and soon he was transferred to the chief secretary.
Emperor Xuan followed Cao Cao to attack Zhang Lu and advised Emperor Wu of Wei: Liu Bei captured Liu Zhang through deception and force. The Shu people sent troops to fight for Jiangling before they surrendered. This opportunity cannot be missed.
Now if we go to Hanzhong to display our troops and show off our power, Yizhou will panic and seize the opportunity to march and attack the city, which will inevitably lead to collapse.
With this momentum, it is easy to establish achievements.
A saint cannot go against heaven's timing, nor can he lose his opportunity.
Emperor Wu of Wei said: People are suffering from lack of satisfaction. They have captured Longxi and still want to capture Shu!
In the end, he did not listen to Emperor Xuan's opinion.
Soon Emperor Xuan followed Cao Cao to conquer Sun Quan and defeated Sun Quan's army.
After the army triumphantly returned, Sun Quan sent an envoy to beg for surrender, presented a memorial to him, and stated that this was his destiny.
Emperor Wu of Wei said: This boy wants to roast me on the fire!
Emperor Xuan replied: The fate of the Han Dynasty is coming to an end, and the prime minister owns nine-tenths of the world, and serves the emperor accordingly.
Sun Quan became a minister, which was the common wish of heaven and man.
The reason why the Yu, Xia, Yin, and Zhou dynasties refused to give in and refuse was precisely because they feared God and knew God's will.
After the establishment of the Wei Kingdom, Emperor Xuan was promoted to the crown prince and concubine.
Whenever he participates in major decisions, he always has a good plan and wins the trust and respect of the prince. He is known as the four friends with Chen Qun, Wu Zhi and Zhu Shuo.
Emperor Xuan was promoted to Army Sima and told Emperor Wu of Wei: In ancient times, Jizi discussed the strategy of governing the country and proposed that food is the first priority for the people.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
今天下不耕者盖二十余万，非经国远筹也。
虽戎甲未卷，自宜且耕且守。
魏武纳之，于是务农积谷，国用丰赡。
帝又言荆州刺史胡修粗暴，南乡太守傅方骄奢，并不可居边。
魏武不之察。
及蜀将羽围曹仁于樊，于禁等七军皆没，修、方果降羽，而仁围甚急焉。
是时汉帝都许昌，魏武以为近贼，欲徙河北。
帝谏曰： 禁等为水所没，非战守之所失，于国家大计未有所损，而便迁都，既示敌以弱，又淮沔之人大不安矣。
孙权、刘备，外亲内疏，羽之得意，权所不愿也。
可喻权所，令掎其后，则樊围自解。
魏武从之。
权果遣将吕蒙西袭公安，拔之，羽遂为蒙所获。
魏武以荆州遗黎及屯田在颍川者逼近南寇，皆欲徙之。
帝曰： 荆楚轻脱，易动难安。
关羽新破，诸为恶者藏窜观望。
今徙其善者，既伤其意，将令去者不敢复还。
从之。
其后诸亡者悉复业。
及魏武薨于洛阳，朝野危惧。
translation: 
At present, there are about 200,000 people in the country who are not engaged in agricultural production. This is not a long-term solution for running the country.
Although the war has not subsided, we should still cultivate the land and defend at the same time.
Emperor Wu of Wei adopted this opinion and devoted himself to farming to accumulate grain. The country's property was rich and sufficient.
Emperor Xuan also issued a memorial stating that Hu Xiu, the governor of Jingzhou, was cruel to the people, and Fu Fang, the governor of Nanxiang, was arrogant and extravagant, and neither of them should be appointed officials to serve as border guards.
Emperor Wu of Wei did not investigate or deal with them.
When Shu general Guan Yu besieged Cao Ren in Fan, Yu Jin and other seven armies were completely wiped out. Hu Xiu and Fu Fang surrendered to Guan Yu, making Cao Ren's siege even more critical.
At this time, Emperor Han made Xuchang his capital. Emperor Wu of Wei thought that Xuchang was too close to the enemy and wanted to move to the north of the Yellow River.
Emperor Xuan advised: "The defeat of Yu Jin and other troops by the water was not due to a blunder in combat and defense. The relocation did not harm the overall situation of the country. Moving the capital rashly not only showed our weakness to the enemy, but also caused extreme unrest among the soldiers and civilians in the Huaihe and Mianshui areas."
Sun Quan and Liu Bei were close on the outside but distant on the inside. Guan Yu's victory was exactly what Sun Quan did not want.
You can explain to Sun Quan and let him contain Guan Yu's rear, then the siege of Fandi will naturally be lifted.
Emperor Wu of Wei followed this opinion.
Sure enough, Sun Quan sent general Lu Meng to the west to attack Gong'an. After capturing Gong'an, Guan Yu was finally killed by Lu Meng.
Emperor Wu of Wei believed that the repatriated people in Jingzhou and the people stationed in Yingchuan to guard the border were too close to the southern enemy, and wanted to move them all away.
Emperor Xuan said: The people of Jingchu are imprudent, easily agitated and difficult to appease.
Guan Yu had just been defeated, and all kinds of evildoers hid and fled to watch.
Now ordering those good people to migrate will not only hurt their feelings, but will also make those who have fled dare not return to their hometowns.
Emperor Wu of Wei followed this opinion.
After that, the exiles all returned to their hometowns to engage in their own professions.
When Emperor Wu of Wei died in Luoyang, the government and the public were frightened.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
帝纲纪丧事，内外肃然。
乃奉梓宫还鄴。
魏文帝即位，封河津亭侯，转丞相长史。
会孙权帅兵西过，朝议以樊、襄阳无谷，不可以御寇。
时曹仁镇襄阳，请召仁还宛。
帝曰： 孙权新破关羽，此其欲自结之时也，必不敢为患。
襄阳水陆之冲，御寇要害，不可弃也。
言竟不从。
仁遂焚弃二城，权果不为寇，魏文悔之。
及魏受汉禅，以帝为尚书。
顷之，转督军、御史中丞，封安国乡侯。
黄初二年，督军官罢，迁侍中、尚书右仆射。
五年，天子南巡，观兵吴疆。
帝留镇许昌，改封向乡侯，转抚军、假节，领兵五千，加给事中、录尚书事。
帝固辞。
天子曰： 吾于庶事，以夜继昼，无须臾宁息。
此非以为荣，乃分忧耳。
translation: 
Emperor Xuan presided over the funeral and kept order inside and outside the court.
Then he personally carried the coffin back to Ye.
After Emperor Wen of Wei came to the throne, he granted Emperor Xuan the title of Marquis of Hejin Ting, and then the title of Prime Minister Chang Shi.
At the same time, Sun Quan led his troops to march westward. The imperial court considered that Fan and Xiangyang did not have enough food reserves to defend themselves against the enemy.
At that time, Cao Ren was guarding Xiangyang, hoping to recall Cao Ren to Wandi.
Emperor Xuan said: Sun Quan recently defeated Guan Yu. This is the time when he wants to take the initiative to make friends, so he must not dare to invade.
襄阳是水陆交通的要道，抵御敌人的要害之地，不能放弃。
最终没听从。
So Cao Ren burned and abandoned the two cities. As expected, Sun Quan did not invade. Emperor Wei Wen regretted it very much.
After accepting the abdication of the Han Dynasty, Emperor Xuan was appointed Shangshu.
Soon, he was appointed as military governor and censor Zhongcheng, and was granted the title of Marquis of Anguo Township.
In the second year of Jianchi's reign, he was dismissed from the post of military governor and promoted to Shizhong and Shangshu Youpushe.
In the fifth year, the emperor visited the south and reviewed the army at the border of Wu.
Emperor Xuan stayed to guard Xidan, and renamed it Xuesu Castle. He was granted the title of Fujun and Jiajie, commanding five thousand soldiers, and was given the title of Shizhong and Lu Shangshushi.
Emperor Xuan firmly refused.
The Emperor said: Because of many trivial matters, I work day and night without a moment of peace and rest.
This is not an honor, it is just to share my worries.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
六年，天子复大兴舟师征吴，复命帝居守，内镇百姓，外供军资。
临行，诏曰： 吾深以后事为念，故以委卿。
曹参虽有战功，而萧何为重。
使吾无西顾之忧，不亦可乎！
天子自广陵还洛阳，诏帝曰： 吾东，抚军当总西事；吾西，抚军当总东事。
于是帝留镇许昌。
及天子疾笃，帝与曹真、陈群等见于崇华殿之南堂，并受顾命辅政。
诏太子曰： 有间此三公者，慎勿疑之。
明帝即位，改封舞阳侯。
及孙权围江夏，遣其将诸葛瑾、张霸并攻襄阳，帝督诸军讨权，走之。
进击，败瑾，斩霸，并首级千余。
迁骠骑将军。
太和元年六月，天子诏帝屯于宛，加督荆、豫二州诸军事。
初，蜀将孟达之降也，魏朝遇之甚厚。
帝以达言行倾巧，不可任，骤谏，不见听，乃以达领新城太守，封侯，假节。
translation: 
In the sixth year, the emperor mobilized a large naval army to conquer the state of Wu, and ordered Emperor Xuan to stay behind to appease the people internally and provide military supplies externally.
Before setting off, he issued an edict saying: I am deeply worried about the rear affairs, so I entrust it to you.
Although Cao Shen had military exploits, Xiao He was more important.
Wouldn't it be great if I don't have to worry about anything?
The emperor returned to Luoyang from Guangling and ordered Emperor Xuan: "I am in the east, you should be in charge of the affairs in the west; I am in the west, you should be in charge of the affairs in the east."
So Emperor Xuan stayed to guard Xuchang.
The emperor was seriously ill, and Emperor Xuan, Cao Zhen, Chen Qun and others paid homage to the emperor in the South Hall of Chonghua Hall, and together they accepted his deathbed orders to assist the government.
The prince was ordered to say: If there is a estrangement between the three adults, do not be suspicious.
After Emperor Ming ascended the throne, he changed the title of Emperor Xuan to Wuyang Marquis.
Sun Quan besieged Jiangxia and sent generals Zhuge Jin and Zhang Ba to attack Xiangyang. Emperor Xuan led all armies to attack Sun Quan and drove back the Wu army.
He marched in pursuit, defeated Zhuge Jin, killed Zhang Ba, and killed more than a thousand enemy soldiers in total.
Emperor Xuan was promoted to General of Hussars.
In June of the first year of Taihe, the emperor ordered Emperor Xuan to garrison in Wandi and add the military governor of Jingzhou and Yuzhou to the army.
When Shu general Meng Da surrendered, the Wei Dynasty treated him very well.
Emperor Xuan believed that Mengda's words and deeds were cunning and untrustworthy, and his repeated remonstrances were not accepted, so he appointed Mengda as the prefect of Xincheng, granted him the title of marquis, and gave him the title of holiday.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
达于是连吴固蜀，潜图中国。
蜀相诸葛亮恶其反覆，又虑其为患。
达与魏兴太守申仪有隙，亮欲促其事，乃遣郭模诈降，过仪，因漏泄其谋。
达闻其谋漏泄，将举兵。
帝恐达速发，以书喻之曰： 将军昔弃刘备，讬身国家，国家委将军以疆埸之任，任将军以图蜀之事，可谓心贯白日。
蜀人愚智，莫不切齿于将军。
诸葛亮欲相破，惟苦无路耳。
模之所言，非小事也，亮岂轻之而令宣露，此殆易知耳。
达得书大喜，犹与不决。
帝乃潜军进讨。
诸将言达与二贼交构，宜观望而后动。
帝曰： 达无信义，此其相疑之时也，当及其未定促决之。
乃倍道兼行，八日到其城下。
吴蜀各遣其将向西城安桥、木阑塞以救达，帝分诸将距之。
初，达与亮书曰： 宛去洛八百里，去吾一千二百里，闻吾举事，当表上天子，比相反覆，一月间也，则吾城已固，诸军足办。
则吾所在深险，司马公必不自来；诸将来，吾无患矣。
及兵到，达又告亮曰： 吾举事，八日而兵至城下，何其神速也！
上庸城三面阻水，达于城外为木栅以自固。
帝渡水，破其栅，直造城下。
八道攻之，旬有六日，达甥邓贤、将李辅等开门出降。
斩达，传首京师。
俘获万余人，振旅还于宛。
translation: 
Mengda then joined Wu An and Shu to plot the Central Plains.
Zhuge Liang, the prime minister of Shu, disliked his capriciousness and worried that he would be a disaster.
Meng Da had a conflict with Shen Yi, the prefect of Wei Xing. Zhuge Liang wanted him to raise an army and start an uprising, so he sent Guo Mo to pretend to surrender and go to Shen Yi's aid to reveal Meng Da's plot.
Yuda knew that his plan had been leaked, so he prepared to raise his troops to cause chaos.
Emperor Xuan was afraid that Mengda was about to send troops, so he wrote to him: "General, I have abandoned Liu Bei in the past and relied on the country. The country has entrusted you with the important task of guarding the border and entrusting you with the important task of conquering the Kingdom of Shu. It can be said that this heart is as bright and aboveboard as the sun."
No matter whether they are stupid or smart, there is no one in Shu who does not hate the general with gnashing of teeth.
Zhuge Liang wants to defeat us, but he has no choice.
What Guo Hu said was not a trivial matter. How could Li Jiangliang leak it so easily? It was easy to understand.
Mengda was very happy after receiving the letter, but he was hesitant about raising troops.
Emperor Xuan secretly sent troops to conquer.
The generals believed that Meng Da had colluded with the two enemies and should wait and see before taking action.
Emperor Yi said: Mengda is unfaithful. Now is the time when they are suspicious of each other. We should prompt him to make up his mind before he has made up his mind.
So he speeded up and traveled day and night, arriving at his city in eight days.
Wu and Shu each sent their soldiers to Anqiao and Mulansai in the west city to rescue Mengda. Emperor Xuan sent generals to resist.
At the beginning, Meng Da wrote to Zhuge Liang and said: Wan is eight hundred miles away from Luo and one thousand two hundred miles away from me. When he hears the news that I am preparing to raise troops, he should report to the emperor first. This round trip will take a month. By then my city will be strong and the army and horses can handle it.
Moreover, I am in a remote and dangerous place, so Lord Sima will definitely not come in person; I am not afraid of other generals coming.
When the army arrived, Meng Da notified Zhuge Liang, saying: It has only been eight days since I raised the army, but the enemy has already arrived at the city. Why is it so fast?
Shangyong City faced water on three sides, and Mengda built a wooden fence outside the city to defend himself.
Emperor Xuan's troops crossed the river, attacked Muzha, and approached the city.
Eight groups of troops attacked the city and fought for sixteen days. Mengda's nephew Deng Xian, general Li Fu and others opened the city gates and came out to surrender.
Emperor Xuan killed Meng Da and sent his head to the capital.
More than 10,000 people were captured, and the army returned to Wan.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
乃劝农桑，禁浮费，南土悦附焉。
初，申仪久在魏兴，专威疆埸，辄承制刻印，多所假授。
达既诛，有自疑心。
时诸郡守以帝新克捷，奉礼求贺，皆听之。
帝使人讽仪，仪至，问承制状，执之，归于京师。
又徙孟达余众七千余家于幽州。
蜀将姚静、郑他等帅其属七千余人来降。
属帝朝于京师，天子访之于帝。
帝对曰： 贼以密网束下，故下弃之。
宜弘以大纲，则自然安乐。
又问二虏宜讨，何者为先？
对曰： 吴以中国不习水战，故敢散居东关。
凡攻敌，必扼其喉而摏其心。
夏口、东关，贼之心喉。
translation: 
So farming and sericulture were encouraged, luxury and waste were prohibited, and the South happily surrendered.
At the beginning, Shen Yi was stationed in Wei Xing for a long time and had exclusive power at the border. He often said that he was adhering to the will and engraving seals privately. These were all informal appointments.
After Meng Da was killed, he had doubts.
At that time, the governors of various counties sent gifts to express their congratulations because of Emperor Xuan's new victory, and they all accepted them.
Emperor Xuan asked someone to persuade Shen Yi. After Shen Yi arrived, he asked about the false edict, arrested him, and sent him to the capital.
He also exiled more than 7,000 Mengda people to Youzhou.
Shu generals Yao Jing, Zheng Ta and others led more than 7,000 men to surrender.
At that time, the border counties had just surrendered, and most of them did not have household registration books. The Wei Dynasty wanted to verify it and asked Emperor Xuan to come to the capital for an audience.
The emperor asked Emperor Xuan, who replied: The enemy used strict laws to rule the people, so the people turned their backs on him.
They should be treated leniently according to Dafa, and they can naturally live and work in peace and contentment.
He also asked, “Which country should be conquered first?”
He replied: The State of Wu thinks that the people in the Central Plains are not accustomed to water warfare, so they dare to live in Shuguan.
Whenever you attack an enemy, you must choke his throat and pound his heart.
Xiakou and Shuguan are the heart and throat of Wu.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
若为陆军以向皖城，引权东下，为水战军向夏口，乘其虚而击之，此神兵从天而坠，破之必矣。
天子并然之，复命屯于宛。
四年，迁大将军，加大都督、假黄钺，与曹真伐蜀。
帝自西城斫山开道，水陆并进，溯沔而上，至于朐，拔其新丰县。
军次丹口，遇雨，班师。
明年，诸葛亮寇天水，围将军贾嗣、魏平于祁山。
天子曰： 西方有事，非君莫可付者。
乃使帝西屯长安，都督雍、梁二州诸军事，统车骑将军张郃、后将军费曜、征蜀护军戴凌、雍州刺史郭淮等讨亮。
张郃劝帝分军往雍、郿为后镇，帝曰： 料前军独能当之者，将军言是也。
若不能当，而分为前后，此楚之三军所以为黥布禽也。
遂进军隃麋。
亮闻大军且至，乃自帅众将芟上邽之麦。
translation: 
If we send an army to march to Wancheng, lure Sun Quan to his side, and then send a navy army to march to Xia, and take advantage of the opportunity to attack them, it will be like magic soldiers falling from the sky, and we will definitely defeat them.
The emperor thought it was reasonable, and ordered Emperor Xuan to station troops in Wan.
In the fourth year, he was promoted to general, increased to governor, fake Huang Bo, and joined Cao Zhen in the crusade against Xili.
Emperor Xuan split the mountains from Youyue to clear a road, and the land and water armies advanced side by side, up the Mian River to Quji, and captured Xinfeng County.
The troops were stationed in Dankou. They encountered heavy rain and returned to the army.
The next year, Zhuge Liang invaded Tianshui and besieged generals Jia Si and Wei Ping in Qishan.
The Emperor said: There is a war in the West, and there is no one who can be trusted except you.
So Emperor Xuan was sent to the west to garrison Chang'an, and he commanded the military forces of Yongzhou and Liangzhou. He led the cavalry general Zhang He, the rear general Fei Yao, the army conquering Shu Dai Jun, the Yongzhou governor Guo Huai and others to attack Zhuge Liang.
Zhang He advised Emperor Xuan to divide his army and garrison it in Yong and Commandery to command from behind. Emperor Xuan said: If you know that the front army can resist the enemy on its own, your opinion is right, general.
If it cannot resist and the troops are divided into two parts, the Chu army will be destroyed by Yingbu.
So he marched to Yumi.
When Zhuge Liang heard that the army was coming, he personally led his soldiers to harvest the wheat in the upper state.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
诸将皆惧，帝曰： 亮虑多决少，必安营自固，然后芟麦。吾得二日兼行足矣。
于是卷甲晨夜赴之。亮望尘而遁。
帝曰： 吾倍道疲劳，此晓兵者之所贪也。
亮不敢据渭水，此易与耳。
进次汉阳，与亮相遇，帝列阵以待之。
使将牛金轻骑饵之，兵才接而亮退，追至祁山。
亮屯卤城，据南北二山，断水为重围。
帝攻拔其围，亮宵遁。追击，破之，俘斩万计。
天子使使者劳军，增封邑。
时军师杜袭、督军薛悌皆言，明年麦熟，亮必为寇，陇右无谷，宜及冬豫运。
帝曰： 亮再出祁山，一攻陈仓，挫衄而反。
纵其后出，不复攻城，当求野战，必在陇东，不在西也。
亮每以粮少为恨，归必积谷，以吾料之，非三稔不能动矣。
translation: 
All the generals were very scared. Emperor Xuan said: Zhuge Liang is more worried and less decisive. He will definitely camp and defend himself, and then cut the wheat. We have two days to travel day and night. It is enough.
So he marched lightly and day and night, but Zhuge Liang fled.
Emperor Xuan said: We are very tired from marching all the way, which is what those who know military knowledge hope.
Lijiangtai did not dare to occupy Jusai, which was easy to deal with.
He marched and stationed in Hanyang, met Zhuge Liang, and Emperor Xuan formed a formation to face the Shu army.
He sent general Niu Jin to lure the Shu army with light cavalry. As soon as the two armies engaged, Zhuge Kui retreated and pursued him to Kongshan.
He condemned Jiangtai and stationed troops at Lu Su, occupying the two mountains in the north and south, and cut off the water sources to create a circle of encirclement.
Emperor Xuan attacked and broke through his encirclement. Zhuge Liang escaped at night, pursued and defeated him, captured and killed more than 10,000 people.
The emperor sent people to comfort the army and increase the number of fiefs.
At that time, military advisor Du Xi and military governor Xue Ti both said that when the wheat was ripe next year, the tomb robbers would definitely attack. There was no food in Luxi and it should be transported in advance in winter.
Emperor Xuan said: Zhuge Liang came out of Qishan again, attacked Chenhe, was defeated and returned.
Even if he comes again in the future, he will not attack the city. He will definitely hope to fight in the field, and it will definitely be in Longshu, not in the west.
Zhuge Liang is often helpless due to lack of food. He will definitely accumulate food after returning. According to my speculation, he will not take action until three years have passed.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
于是表徙冀州农夫佃上邽，兴京兆、天水、南安监冶。
青龙元年，穿成国渠，筑临晋陂，溉田数千顷，国以充实。
二年，亮又率众十余万出斜谷，垒于郿之渭水南原。
天子忧之，遣征蜀护军秦朗督步骑二万，受帝节度。
诸将欲住渭北以待之，帝曰： 百姓积聚皆在渭南，此必争之地也。
遂引军而济，背水为垒。
因谓诸将曰： 亮若勇者，当出武功依山而东，若西上五丈原，则诸军无事矣。
亮果上原，将北渡渭，帝遣将军周当屯阳遂以饵之。
数日，亮不动。
帝曰： 亮欲争原而不向阳遂，此意可知也。
遣将军胡遵、雍州刺史郭淮共备阳遂，与亮会于积石，临原而战，亮不得进，还于五丈原。
translation: 
So Shangzou moved the farmers from Jizhou to Shangbang and strengthened the supervision and management of Jingzhao, Tianshui and Nan'an.
In the first year of the year, the Chengguo Canal was dug, a submerged pressure was built, thousands of hectares of land were irrigated, and the national treasury was enriched.
In the second year, Zhuge Liang led more than 100,000 troops out of Xiegu and stationed troops in the plain south of the Wei River in Yongdi.
The emperor was very worried and sent Qin Lang, the guard of Shu, to lead 20,000 infantry and cavalry to accept the command of Emperor Xuan.
The generals wanted to fight in Weibei, but Emperor Xuan said: "The people are gathering in Mengnan. This is a battleground."
So he led his army across the water and made a camp with his back to the water.
Then he said to the generals: If Zhuge Liang is a brave man, he should start from martial arts and march eastward along the mountain. If you go west to Wuzhangyuan, then all armies and horses will be safe.
As expected, Zhuge Liang went to the plain and prepared to cross the Wei River north. Emperor Xuan sent General Zhou Dang to lure the Shu army in Yangsu.
For several days, Zhuge Liang remained silent.
Emperor Xuan said: Zhuge Liang wanted to seize the plains instead of going to Yangsui. We can know his intentions.
He sent general Hu Zun and Yongzhou governor Guo Huai to jointly guard Yang Sui, and met Zhuge Liang at Jishi. When the battle began near the plain, Zhuge Liang was unable to advance and returned to Wuzhangyuan.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
会有长星坠亮之垒，帝知其必败，遣奇兵掎亮之后，斩五百余级，获生口千余，降者六百余人。
时朝廷以亮侨军远寇，利在急战，每命帝持重，以候其变。
亮数挑战，帝不出，因遗帝巾帼妇人之饰。
帝怒，表请决战，天子不许，乃遣骨鲠臣卫尉辛毗杖节为军师以制之。
后亮复来挑战，帝将出兵以应之，毗杖节立军门，帝乃止。
初，蜀将姜维闻毗来，谓亮曰： 辛毗杖节而至，贼不复出矣。
亮曰： 彼本无战心，所以固请者，以示武于其众耳。
将在军，君命有所不受，苟能制吾，岂千里而请战邪！
帝弟孚书问军事，帝复书曰： 亮志大而不见机，多谋而少决，好兵而无权，虽提卒十万，已堕吾画中，破之必矣。
与之对垒百余日，会亮病卒，诸将烧营遁走，百姓奔告，帝出兵追之。
亮长史杨仪反旗鸣鼓，若将距帝者。
帝以穷寇不之逼，于是杨仪结阵而去。
经日，乃行其营垒，观其遗事，获其图书、粮谷甚众。帝审其必死，曰： 天下奇才也。
辛毗以为尚未可知。
帝曰： 军家所重，军书密计、兵马粮谷，今皆弃之，岂有人捐其五藏而可以生乎？
宜急追之。
关中多蒺藜，帝使军士二千人著软材平底木屐前行，蒺藜悉著屐，然后马步俱进。
追到赤岸，乃知亮死。
审问，时百姓为之谚曰： 死诸葛走生仲达。
帝闻而笑曰： 吾便料生，不便料死故也。
translation: 
When a comet crashed into Zhuge Liang's camp, Emperor Xuan knew that Zhuge Liang would definitely fail, so he sent a surprise force to contain Zhuge Liang's rear, killing more than 500 people, capturing more than 1,000 alive, and more than 600 surrendered.
At that time, the imperial court believed that Zhuge Liang was a distant enemy living in the south of the Yangtze River and was conducive to a quick victory. Emperor Xuan was often ordered to be cautious and wait for his changes.
Zhuge Liang challenged Emperor Xuan many times, but Emperor Xuan refused to fight, so Zhuge Liang gave Emperor Yi women's clothes.
Emperor Xuan was furious and petitioned for a decisive battle. The emperor disagreed and sent an upright minister, Wei Wei Xinpi, holding a talisman as a military advisor to stop Emperor Xuan.
Later, Zhuge Liang came to challenge again. Emperor Xuan was preparing to send troops to fight. Xinpi stood at the military gate holding a talisman, and Emperor Xuan gave up.
At the beginning, Shu general Jiang Wei heard that Xinpi was coming and said to Zhuge Liang: If Xinpi comes to hold the festival, the enemy will not fight again.
Zhuge Liang said: He had no intention of going to war in the first place, so the reason why he insisted on asking for a fight was just to show his bravery in front of his soldiers.
When a general is in the army, you don't have to accept your orders. If you can really deal with me, why bother asking for a battle thousands of miles away?
Emperor Xuan's younger brother Sima Fu wrote to ask for military advice. Emperor Xuan replied: Zhuge Liang has great ambitions but no opportunities. He is more resourceful and less decisive. He likes to use troops but has no power. Although he leads a hundred thousand soldiers, he has fallen into my trap. Defeating them is certain.
The confrontation with Zhuge Liang lasted for more than a hundred days. When Zhuge Liang fell ill and died, the generals burned their camps and fled quietly. The people rushed to tell each other, and Emperor Xuan sent troops to pursue him.
Zhuge Liang's chief commander, Yang Yi, turned around and marched with drums and flags, as if he was going to fight Emperor Xuan.
Emperor Xuan thought that it was not appropriate to pursue poor bandits, so Yang Yi formed a formation and left.
After a few days of encounter, Emperor Xuan came to Zhuge Liang's camp, inspected the things they sent, and seized many books, grain and grass. Emperor Xuan was sure that Zhuge Liang was dead and said: "He is really a genius in the world."
Xinpi thinks it’s not certain yet.
Emperor Xuan said: What the military attaches great importance to are military documents and secrets, as well as food and fodder for soldiers, horses, and horses. Now that they have been thrown away, is there anyone who can still live after throwing away his own five internal organs?
He should be pursued immediately.
There were many thorns in Guanzhong, so Emperor Xuan ordered 2,000 sergeants to march forward wearing soft-soled, flat-heeled wooden clogs. The thorns were all tied into the wooden clogs, and then the cavalry and infantry marched together.
Chasing to Chi'an, I learned the definite news of Zhuge Liang's death.
At that time, the people made up a proverb about this matter: A dead Zhuge Liang scares away a living Sima Zhongda.
After hearing this, Emperor Xuan smiled and said: "Because I am good at predicting his life, but not good at predicting his death."


Chunk 11: 
original: 
先是，亮使至，帝问曰： 诸葛公起居何如，食可几米？
对曰： 三四升。
次问政事，曰： 二十罚已上皆自省览。
帝既而告人曰： 诸葛孔明其能久乎！
竟如其言。
亮部将杨仪、魏延争权，仪斩延，并其众。
帝欲乘隙而进，有诏不许。
三年，迁太尉，累增封邑。
蜀将马岱入寇，帝遣将军牛金击走之，斩千余级。
武都氐王苻双、强端帅其属六千余人来降。
关东饥，帝运长安粟五百万斛于京师。
四年，获白鹿，献之。
天子曰： 昔周公旦辅成王，有素雉之贡。
今君受陕西之任，有白鹿之献，岂非忠诚协符，千载同契，俾乂邦家，以永厥休邪！
及辽东太守公孙文懿反，征帝诣京师。
天子曰： 此不足以劳君，事欲必克，故以相烦耳。
君度其行何计？
对曰： 弃城预走，上计也。
translation: 
Before that, Zhuge Liang had sent an envoy. Emperor Xuan asked: How is Duke Zhuge's daily life? How much food can he eat?
The answer was: I can eat three or four liters.
Then he asked about political affairs and replied: Anyone punished for more than 20 years must be personally investigated.
Emperor Xuan later said to others: How could Zhuge Kongming live so long!
In the end it was as he said.
Zhuge Liang's generals Yang Yi and Wei Yan fought for power. Yang Yi killed Wei Yan and annexed his army.
Emperor Xuan wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to march, but the edict did not allow it.
In the third year, Emperor Xuan was promoted to Taiwei and increased the number of fiefs.
The Shu general Ma Dai invaded, and Emperor Xuan sent his general Sheng Jin to repel them and killed more than a thousand people.
Fu Shuang and Qiang Duan, the Di kings of Wudu, led more than 6,000 men to surrender.
During the famine in Hedong, Emperor Xuan transported five million grains of dendrobium from Chang'an to the capital.
In the fourth year, Emperor Xuan obtained a white deer and dedicated it to the emperor.
The emperor said: In the past, Qi Gongdan assisted Liting and offered white pheasants.
Now you are managing Shaanxi and you are offering a white deer. Isn’t this a combination of loyalty, harmony, and unity for thousands of years to govern the country and make it auspicious for thousands of years?
When Gongsun Wenyi, the governor of Liaodong, rebelled, he summoned Emperor Xuan to the capital.
The Emperor said: Originally it was not worth bothering you, but this matter must be won, so I have to bother you.
What do you think he has planned?
He replied: It is the best policy to abandon the city and leave in advance.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
据辽水以距大军，次计也。
坐守襄平，此成擒耳。
天子曰： 其计将安出？
对曰： 惟明者能深度彼己，豫有所弃，此非其所及也。
今悬军远征，将谓不能持久，必先距辽水而后守，此中下计也。
天子曰： 往还几时？
对曰： 往百日，还百日，攻百日，以六十日为休息，一年足矣。
是时大修宫室，加之以军旅，百姓饥弊。
帝将即戎，乃谏曰： 昔周公营洛邑，萧何造未央，今宫室未备，臣之责也。
然自河以北，百姓困穷，外内有役，势不并兴，宜假绝内务，以救时急。
景初二年，帅牛金、胡遵等步骑四万发自京都。
车驾送出西明门。诏弟孚、子师送过温，赐以谷帛牛酒，敕郡守典农以下皆往会焉。
见父老故旧，宴饮累日。
帝叹息，怅然有感，为歌曰： 天地开辟，日月重光。
translation: 
Occupy the distant water and resist the army, this is the middle strategy.
If you sit on the ground to guard Secuo, you will definitely be captured.
The emperor asked: What good plan will there be?
The answer is: A person who is discerning can think deeply about the enemy and ourselves and give up beforehand. It is not what he can do.
Now that he is going deep into the country alone, his expedition will definitely not last long. He will definitely occupy the Liao River and hold on to it. This is the middle or lower strategy.
The Emperor said: How long does it take to go back and forth?
He replied: One hundred days to go, one hundred days to return, one hundred days to attack, and sixty days to rest. One year is enough.
At that time, palaces were being built on a large scale, and the army was fighting, and the people were starving and dying.
Emperor Xuan was preparing to use troops, so he advised him: "In the past, Zhou Gong built Luoyi, and Xiao He built Weiyang Palace. Now the palace is not complete. This is my responsibility."
However, from the north of the Yellow River, the people are poor and distressed, and they are working hard both inside and outside. The forces cannot be developed at the same time, and construction should be temporarily stopped to relieve temporary emergencies.
In the second year of Jingchu, Emperor Xuan led Niu Jin, Hu Zun and other 40,000 infantry and cavalry troops to set out from Kyoto.
The emperor sent him out of Ximing Gate, and his brother Sima Fu and his son Sima Shi sent him warm water and gave him grain, silk, cattle and wine. He ordered the county governor, Dian Nong, and all the officials below to pay homage to Emperor Xuan.
Emperor Xuan met with his father and old friends and had a banquet for several days.
Emperor Xuan sighed deeply and felt sad. He chanted a poem and said: The sky and the earth are created, and the sun and the moon shine again.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
遭遇际会，毕力遐方。
将扫群秽，还过故乡。
肃清万里，总齐八荒。
告成归老，待罪舞阳。
遂进师，经孤竹，越碣石，次于辽水。
文懿果遣步骑数万，阻辽隧，坚壁而守，南北六七十里，以距帝。
帝盛兵多张旗帜，出其南，贼尽锐赴之。
乃泛舟潜济以出其北，与贼营相逼，沈舟焚梁，傍辽水作长围，弃贼而向襄平。
诸将言曰： 不攻贼而作围，非所以示众也。
帝曰： 贼坚营高垒，欲以老吾兵也。
攻之，正入其计，此王邑所以耻过昆阳也。
古人曰，敌虽高垒，不得不与我战者，攻其所必救也。
贼大众在此，则巢窟虚矣。
我直指襄平，则人怀内惧，惧而求战，破之必矣。
遂整阵而过。
贼见兵出其后，果邀之。
translation: 
At the right time, we went on an expedition with all our strength.
He will sweep away the enemies and return to the army to cross the countryside.
Clear away thousands of miles and unify the four directions.
Retire after success, and wait for sin to dance in the sun.
So he marched, passed Guzhu, crossed Jieshi, and stationed troops in Liao River.
As expected, Wen Yi sent tens of thousands of infantry and cavalry to block the Liao Tunnel and defend the walls sixty or seventy miles from north to south to resist Emperor Xuan.
Emperor Xuan sent out heavy troops to the south with great fanfare, and the bandits gathered their elite troops to fight.
Emperor Xuan used boats to secretly cross the army to attack the north, close to the bandits' camp, sank the boats and burned the bridges, built a long siege along the wall of water, abandoned the enemy troops and marched towards Xiangping.
The generals said: Setting up a siege instead of attacking the rebel army is not a good way to inform the army.
Emperor Xuan said: The bandits have strengthened the fortress in order to tire out our army.
Attacking them fell into their trap, which was why Wang Yi was ashamed of Guo Kunyang.
The ancients said that the reason why the enemy has to fight us despite building high barriers is because we attack the place they must rescue.
When the army of thieves and bandits gathers here, their lair will be empty.
If we attack Xiangping directly, the enemy will be fearful and seek battle in fear, and we will definitely defeat them.
So the whole column marched away.
When the rebels saw our troops appearing behind them, they actually intercepted them.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
帝谓诸将曰： 所以不攻其营，正欲致此，不可失也。
乃纵兵逆击，大破之，三战皆捷。贼保襄平，进军围之。
初，文懿闻魏师之出也，请救于孙权。
权亦出兵遥为之声援，遗文懿书曰： 司马公善用兵，变化若神，所向无前，深为弟忧之。
会霖潦，大水，平地数尺，三军恐，欲移营。
帝令军中敢有言徙者斩。
都督令史张静犯令，斩之，军中乃定。
贼恃水，樵牧自若。
诸将欲取之，皆不听。
司马陈圭曰： 昔攻上庸，八部并进，昼夜不息，故能一旬之半，拔坚城，斩孟达。
今者远来而更安缓，愚窃惑焉。
帝曰： 孟达众少而食支一年，吾将士四倍于达而粮不淹月，以一月图一年，安可不速？
以四击一，正令半解，犹当为之。
是以不计死伤，与粮竞也。
translation: 
Emperor Xuan said to the generals: "That's why I didn't attack their camp because I was hoping to create this situation. This opportunity should not be missed."
So he sent his troops to fight back and defeated the enemy. After three battles and three victories, the rebels retreated to Xiangping, and Emperor Xuan marched to surround Xiangping.
When Wenyi heard the news of Wei Jun's departure, he asked Sun Jie for help.
Jieqie also sent troops to support him from a distance, and wrote to Wen Yi: "Sima Gong is good at using troops, his transformation is like a god, and he is invincible. I am deeply worried about you."
It happened to be a continuous heavy rain and several feet of water accumulated on the flat ground. The soldiers of the three armies panicked and wanted to move the camp.
Emperor Xuan ordered that anyone in the army who dared to speak of migration be beheaded.
The commander-in-chief Shi Zhangjing violated military orders and was beheaded, and the morale of the army stabilized.
Relying on the strength of the water, the bandit army was able to cut firewood and graze their cattle in peace and contentment.
The generals wanted to capture them, but Emperor Xuan did not agree.
Sima Chen Gui said: In the previous attack on Shangyong, eight troops marched at the same time, day and night, so they were able to capture the fortified city and kill Mengda in five or six days.
Now I feel more peaceful and relaxed when I come from afar. I don't understand it.
Emperor Xuan said: Meng Da has a small number of soldiers but enough food to last a year. Our soldiers are four times as many as Meng Da but have less than a month's food. If we use troops that can last for one month against those that can last for a year, how can we not fight quickly?
With four against one, this should be done even if split in half.
Therefore, regardless of the number of casualties, we are competing with food.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
今贼众我寡，贼饥我饱，水雨乃尔，功力不设，虽当促之，亦何所为。
自发京师，不忧贼攻，但恐贼走。
今贼粮垂尽，而围落未合，掠其牛马，抄其樵采，此故驱之走也。
夫兵者诡道，善因事变。
贼凭众恃雨，故虽饥困，未肯束手，当示无能以安之。
取小利以惊之，非计也。
朝廷闻师遇雨，咸请召还。
天子曰： 司马公临危制变，计日擒之矣。
既而雨止，遂合围。
起土山地道，楯橹钩橦，发矢石雨下，昼夜攻之。
时有长星，色白，有芒鬣，自襄平城西南流于东北，坠于梁水，城中震慑。
文懿大惧，乃使其所署相国王建、御史大夫柳甫乞降，请解围而缚。
不许，执建等，皆斩之。
translation: 
Now that the enemy is outnumbered and we are outnumbered, the thieves are hungry and we are full, and the rain is falling like this, the effect cannot be exerted. Although it should be accelerated, what can be done.
Since setting off from the capital, I have not been worried about the rebels attacking, but I am worried about the rebels escaping.
Now the bandits' army is about to run out of food and grass, but our army has not yet encircled them. We have robbed their cattle and horses and confiscated their firewood, in order to deliberately drive them away.
The use of soldiers pays attention to the art of deception and is good at changing at any time.
The thieves relied on large numbers of people and heavy rain, so even though they were hungry and sleepy, they refused to surrender. We should show our incompetence to reassure them.
It's not a good idea to alarm them by seeking small profits.
When the court heard that the army had encountered heavy rain, they sent a letter to summon them back.
The Emperor said: If Sima Gong can respond to danger, he will soon be able to capture the bandits.
Soon the rain stopped and they were surrounded.
They built earthen mountain tunnels, prepared shields, oars, hooks and carts, and attacked day and night with arrows and stones raining down on them.
At that time, a comet, white with a bright tail, fell from the southwest to the northeast of Xiangping City and landed on Liangshui. The people in the city were shocked and frightened.
Wen Yi was very frightened and asked his subordinates, Wang Jian and Liu Fu, to beg for surrender and ask for the siege to be lifted.
Emperor Xuan did not agree, so he detained Wang Jian and others and killed them all.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
檄告文懿曰： 昔楚郑列国，而郑伯犹肉袒牵羊而迎之。
孤为王人，位则上公，而建等欲孤解围退舍，岂楚郑之谓邪！
二人老耄，必传言失旨，已相为斩之。
若意有未已，可更遣年少有明决者来。
文懿复遣侍中卫演乞克日送任。
帝谓演曰： 军事大耍有五，能战当战，不能战当守，不能守当走，余二事惟有降与死耳。
汝不肯面缚，此为决就死也，不须送任。
文懿攻南围突出，帝纵兵击败之，斩于梁水之上星坠之所。
既入城，立两标以别新旧焉。
男子年十五已上七千余人皆杀之，以为京观。
伪公卿已下皆伏诛，戮其将军毕盛等二千余人。
收户四万，口三十余万。
初，文懿篡其叔父恭位而囚之。
及将反，将军纶直、贾范等苦谏，文懿皆杀之。
帝乃释恭之囚，封直等之墓，显其遗嗣。
令曰： 古之伐国，诛其鲸鲵而已，诸为文懿所诖误者，皆原之。
中国人欲还旧乡，恣听之。
translation: 
He informed Wen Yi with a message saying: In the past, Chu and Zheng were equal countries. Uncle Zheng even took off his shirt and held a live sheep in his hand to greet the Chu army.
As a minister of the emperor, I am in the position of superior, but Wang Jian and others want me to lift the siege and withdraw the army. Isn't this the relationship between Chu and Zheng?
These two people are old and confused. They must have misrepresented your meaning and have been killed for you.
If you still have something to say, send someone younger and more decisive.
Wen Yi sent his servant Yan to beg for the delivery of the proton within a time limit.
Emperor Xuan made a speech to the Wei: There are five military principles: if you can fight, you should fight; if you can't fight, you should defend; if you can't defend, you should withdraw. The remaining two options are surrender and death.
You are not willing to surrender with your hands tied, because you want to fight to the death without sending protons.
Wen Yi attacked the besiegers in the south and surrounded him. Emperor Xuan defeated him and beheaded him where the comet fell.
After entering the city, two signs were built to distinguish the old from the new.
More than 7,000 men over the age of 15 were killed, and their bodies were sealed and built into high tombs.
All the puppet officials below the Duke were executed, and General Bi Sheng and more than 2,000 people were beheaded.
There are 40,000 households and more than 300,000 people.
At first, Wen Jing usurped the power of his uncle Gongsun Gong and imprisoned him.
When he was about to rebel, generals Lun Zhi, Jia Fan and others tried hard to persuade him, but Wen Yi killed them all.
Emperor Xuan released Gongsun Gong and built tombs for Lun Zhi and others to commend their descendants.
The order said: In ancient times, when conquering a country, only its particularly vicious people were killed. Forgive everyone who has been implicated by Wen Yi.
People from the Central Plains who wish to return to their hometown can do so according to their own wishes.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
时有兵士寒冻，乞襦，帝弗之与。
或曰： 幸多故襦，可以赐之。
帝曰： 襦者官物，人臣无私施也。
乃奏军人年六十已上者罢遣千余人，将吏从军死亡者致丧还家。
遂班师。
天子遣使者劳军于蓟，增封食昆阳，并前二县。
初，帝至襄平，梦天子枕其膝，曰： 视吾面。
俯视有异于常，心恶之。
先是，诏帝便道镇关中；及次白屋，有诏召帝，三日之间，诏书五至。
手诏曰： 间侧息望到，到便直排阁入，视吾面。
帝大遽，乃乘追锋车昼夜兼行，自白屋四百余里，一宿而至。
引入嘉福殿卧内，升御床。
帝流涕问疾，天子执帝手，目齐王曰： 以后事相托。
死乃复可忍，吾忍死待君，得相见，无所复恨矣。
translation: 
At that time, some soldiers felt cold and asked for short coats, but Emperor Xuan refused to give them.
Some people said: There are many old short coats that can be given to them.
Emperor Xuan said: "The short coat belongs to the public. As a minister, you cannot give it to others privately."
So the imperial court dismissed more than a thousand soldiers over sixty years old, and those generals who died in the war went home to mourn them.
Then the class teacher.
The emperor sent people to Ji to reward the army, and granted Emperor Xuan the title of Kunyang, and the two counties that had already been granted the title were used as food towns.
It turned out that when Emperor Xuan came to Xiangping, he dreamed that the emperor was resting his head on his knees and saying: Look at my face.
He lowered his head to look and found that Emperor Ziyu was different from usual and was very scared.
Before that, Emperor Xuan had been ordered to guard Guanzhong from the side road; when he arrived at Baiwu, he was ordered to summon Emperor Xuan. Within three days, five edicts came.
The hand edict said: Lately, I have been looking forward to your arrival with fear and anxiety. When you arrive, you will directly push the door in and look at my face.
Emperor Xuan was so panicked that he took a light post car and traveled day and night. He traveled more than four hundred miles from Baiwu and arrived there in one day.
Enter the Jiafu Palace bedroom and walk to the imperial bed.
Emperor Xuan asked about his condition with tears in his eyes. The emperor took Emperor Xuan's hand, looked at King Qi and said, "I will entrust you with the funeral affairs."
Death can actually be controlled. I waited patiently for you until we met, and there was no regrets left.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
与大将军曹爽并受遗诏辅少主。
及齐王即帝位，迁侍中、持节、都督中外诸军、录尚书事，与爽各统兵三千人，共执朝政，更直殿中，乘舆入殿。
爽欲使尚书奏事先由己，乃言于天子，徙帝为大司马。
朝议以为前后大司马累薨于位，乃以帝为太傅。入殿不趋，赞拜不名，剑履上殿，如汉萧何故事。
嫁娶丧葬取给于官，以世子师为散骑常侍，子弟三人为列侯，四人为骑都尉。
帝固让子弟官不受。
魏正始元年春正月，东倭重译纳贡，焉耆、危须诸国，弱水以南，鲜卑名王，皆遣使来献。
天子归美宰辅，又增帝封邑。
初，魏明帝好修宫室，制度靡丽，百姓苦之。
帝自辽东还，役者犹万余人，雕玩之物动以千计。
至是皆奏罢之，节用务农，天下欣赖焉。
二年夏五月，吴将全琮寇芍陂，硃然、孙伦围樊城，诸葛瑾、步骘掠柤中，帝请自讨之。
translation: 
Cao Shuang, the general of Emperor Xuan, accepted the imperial edict to assist the young master.
After the King of Qi succeeded to the throne, Emperor Xuan was promoted to Shizhong, Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of the Chinese and foreign armies, and Secretary-General. He and Cao Shuang each commanded three thousand troops, and jointly took charge of the government affairs. They took turns to be on duty in the palace, and could sit in the palace as a public servant.
Cao Shuang wanted the affairs to be reported to the minister to go through him first, so he proposed to the emperor and appointed Emperor Xuan as the chief minister.
After deliberation, the imperial court concluded that all the great ministers before and after had died in their positions, so they appointed Emperor Xuan as Taifu. He did not need to walk quickly when entering the palace, did not need to state his name when meeting the emperor, and was allowed to wear swords and shoes when entering the palace. Everything was just like the old practice of Xiao He of the Han Dynasty.
All wedding and funeral expenses for Emperor Xuan's family were provided by the government. His eldest son, Sima Shi, was appointed as the regular attendant of the cavalry, three of his children were appointed as lieutenants, and four were appointed as cavalry captains.
Emperor Xuan resolutely resigned and refused to accept the official titles of his disciples.
In the first month of the spring of the first year of the Zhengshi period, envoys from the Eastern Japan came to pay tribute. The kings of the Yanqi, Weixu, and Xianbei people south of Weishui all sent envoys to pay tribute.
The emperor attributed the credit to the prime minister and increased Emperor Xuan's fiefdom.
At first, Emperor Wei Ming liked to build palaces, which were luxurious and magnificent in scale, which made the people feel miserable.
When Emperor Xuan returned from Liaodong, there were still more than 10,000 people serving as laborers, and there were often thousands of prize items.
At this time, everyone petitioned to stop, and those who saved money went back to farming, and the world was happy and looked up to it.
In the summer and May of the second year of Zhengshi, the Wu general Quan Cong invaded Shaopi. Zhu Pan and Jianjian besieged! Bi. Zhuge Jin and Chu Ju were plundering Dan Shi. Emperor Xuan requested to attack personally.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
议者咸言，贼远来围樊，不可卒拔。
挫于坚城之下，有自破之势，宜长策以御之。
帝曰： 边城受敌而安坐庙堂，疆场骚动，众心疑惑，是社稷之大忧也。
六月，乃督诸军南征，车驾送出津阳门。
帝以南方暑湿，不宜持久，使轻骑挑之，然不敢动。
于是休战士，简精锐，募先登，申号令，示必攻之势。
吴军夜遁走，追至三州口，斩获万余人，收其舟船军资而还。
天子遣侍中常侍劳军于宛。
秋七月，增封食郾、临颍，并前四县，邑万户，子弟十一人皆为列侯。
帝勋德日盛，而谦恭愈甚。
以太常常林乡邑旧齿，见之每拜。
恆戒子弟曰： 盛满者道家之所忌，四时犹有推移，吾何德以堪之。
损之又损之，庶可以免乎？
三年春，天子追封，谥皇考京兆尹为舞阳成侯。
translation: 
Commentators all said that the bandits came from afar to besiege Sanzhiqiu, and it was impossible to capture the city quickly.
If they are frustrated under the city, they will have the tendency to self-destruct, and they can use good strategies to resist.
Emperor Xuan said: If the border town is invaded but sits on top of the imperial court, if the border is not stable, doubts will arise in the hearts of the people. This is a great worry for the country.
In June, he led various armies to march south, and the emperor sent out the Jinyang League.
Emperor Xuan ordered the light cavalry to challenge because the weather in the south was hot and humid and could not last long. Zhu Ran did not dare to attack rashly.
So he rested his warriors, selected the elite divisions, recruited the warriors who would be the first to land on the city, and gave strict orders to show that he must attack.
The Wu army fled at night and pursued them as far as Sanzhoukou. They killed and captured more than 10,000 people, seized the enemy's ships and supplies, and returned.
The emperor sent his servants to serve in Wan to reward the army.
In the seventh month of autumn, Emperor Xuan was granted the title of Yi and Linying, which together with the previous four counties, resulted in a total of ten thousand households in the city, and eleven of their descendants were named princes.
Emperor Xuan's reputation for meritorious service increased day by day, but he became more humble and respectful.
Because Tai Changlin was a virtuous elder among his fellow villagers, he had to bow down every time he saw him.
He often warned his disciples: "Pride and complacency are taboo in Taoism. The four seasons are changing. What virtue do I have to endure these changes?"
Being humble and humble can probably avoid disaster!
In the spring of the third year of Zhengshi, the emperor named Sima Fang, Jingzhao Yin, the late father of Emperor Yi, as the Marquis of Wuyang.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
三月，奏穿广漕渠，引河入汴，溉东南诸陂，始大佃于淮北。
先是，吴遣将诸葛恪屯皖，边鄙苦之，帝欲自击恪。
议者多以贼据坚城，积谷，欲引致官兵，今悬军远攻，其救必至，进退不易，未见其便。
帝曰： 贼之所长者水也，今攻其城，以观其变。
若用其所长，弃城奔走，此为庙胜也。
若敢固守，湖水冬浅，船不得行，势必弃水相救，由其所短，亦吾利也。
四年秋九月，帝督诸军击诸葛恪，车驾送出津阳门。
军次于舒，恪焚烧积聚，弃城而遁。
帝以灭贼之耍，在于积谷，乃大兴屯守，广开淮阳、百尺二渠，又修诸陂于颍之南北，万余顷。
自是淮北仓庾相望，寿阳至于京师，农官屯兵连属焉。
五年春正月，帝至自淮南，天子使持节劳军。
translation: 
In March, Emperor Xuan requested that the Guangcao Canal be dug to divert the water from the Yellow River into the Bianhe River to irrigate the large sloping land in the southeast and begin large-scale farming north of the Huaihe River.
Prior to this, the State of Wu sent general Zhuge Ke to garrison Anhui. The border towns suffered greatly. Emperor Xuan wanted to attack Zhuge Ke himself.
Most of the deputies in the DPRK believed that the enemy was guarding the fortified city and hoarding food in order to lure the government troops here. Now if we go to attack far away alone, their reinforcements will definitely come. It will be difficult for our army to advance and retreat, and we cannot defeat it.
Emperor Xuan said: The enemy is good at water warfare. Now attack their city to observe its changes.
If they play to their strengths and abandon the city and escape, this is the court's strategy to win.
If the enemy dares to hold on, the lake will be shallow in winter and the boats will be unable to sail, and they will inevitably give up the water battle and save themselves. This is their shortcoming and it is also to our advantage.
In the autumn and September of the fourth year, Emperor Xuan led various troops to attack Zhuge Ke, and the emperor sent him out of Jinyang Gate.
When the army arrived in Shu, Zhuge Ke burned his accumulated property, abandoned the city and fled.
Emperor Xuan believed that the key to destroying the enemy was to accumulate grain, so he cultivated fields on a large scale, widened the Huaiyang and Baichi canals, and repaired the slopes north and south of Yingshui River, covering more than 10,000 hectares.
From then on, there were granaries everywhere in the Huaibei region, from Shouyang to the capital, connected by agricultural officials and troops stationed in the fields.
In the first month of the spring of the fifth year, Emperor Xuan returned to the capital from Huainan. The emperor sent people to hold talismans to express condolences to the army.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
尚书邓扬、李胜等欲令曹爽建立功名，劝使伐蜀。
帝止之，不可，爽果无功而还。
六年秋八月，曹爽毁中垒中坚营，以兵属其弟中领军羲，帝以先帝旧制禁之不可。
冬十二月，天子诏帝朝会乘舆升殿。
七年春正月，吴寇柤中，夷夏万余家避寇北渡沔。
帝以沔南近贼，若百姓奔还，必复致寇，宜权留之。
曹爽曰： 今不能修守沔南而留百姓，非长策也。
帝曰： 不然。
凡物致之安地则安。危地则危。
故兵书曰 成败，形也；安危，势也 。
形势，御众之要，不可以不审。
设令贼以二万人断沔水，三万人与沔南诸军相持，万人陆梁柤中，将何以救之？
爽不从，卒令还南。
贼果袭破柤中，所失万计。
translation: 
Shangshu Deng Yang, Li Sheng and others wanted to establish Cao Shuang's reputation and persuaded him to attack Shu.
Emperor Xuan tried to dissuade him but refused to listen, so Cao Shuang returned without success.
In the autumn and August of the sixth year, Cao Shuang canceled the central camp and assigned the troops to his younger brother Cao Xi, the leader of the army. Emperor Xuan thought this was the old military system of the late emperor and tried to stop him, but failed.
In the twelfth month of winter, the emperor issued a letter from Shao and ordered Emperor Xuan to go to the palace in a carriage.
In the first month of the spring of the seventh year, the Wu army invaded Zuzhong, and more than ten thousand families of residents of all ethnic groups in the interior crossed the Mianshui River north to avoid the enemy.
Emperor Xuan believed that the enemy was close to Miannan, and if the people ran back, they would definitely cause trouble to the enemy, so he should keep the people for the time being.
Cao Shuang said: "It is not a long-term solution to retain the people without being able to defend the area south of Mianshui River well."
Emperor Xuan said: No.
Generally speaking, everything is safe when placed in a safe place, and dangerous when placed in a dangerous place.
Therefore, it is said in the book of war that success and failure depend on shape; safety and danger depend on momentum.
Shape and momentum are the key to controlling everyone, so we must take them seriously.
If the enemy were to use 20,000 troops to cut off the Mianshui River, and use 30,000 troops to confront the various troops south of the Mian River, and 10,000 troops were rampant in Xiangzhong, what method would be used to rescue them?
Cao Shuang disagreed with this opinion and eventually ordered the people to return to the south.
As expected, the enemy attacked and captured Zuzhong, causing tens of thousands of losses.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
八年夏四月，夫人张氏薨。
曹爽用何晏、邓扬、丁谧之谋，迁太后于永宁宫，专擅朝政，兄弟并典禁兵，多树亲党，屡改制度。
帝不能禁，于是与爽有隙。
五月，帝称疾不与政事。
时人为之谣曰： 何、邓、丁，乱京城。
九年春三月，黄门张当私出掖庭才人石英等十一人，与曹爽为伎人。
爽、晏谓帝疾笃，遂有无君之心，与当密谋，图危社稷，期有日矣。
帝亦潜为之备，爽之徒属亦颇疑帝。
会河南尹李胜将莅荆州，来候帝。
帝诈疾笃，使两婢侍，持衣衣落，指口言渴，婢进粥，帝不持杯饮，粥皆流出霑胸。
胜曰： 众情谓明公旧风发动，何意尊体乃尔！
帝使声气才属，说 年老枕疾，死在旦夕。
君当屈并州，并州近胡，善为之备。
translation: 
In April of the eighth year of summer, his wife Zhang passed away.
Xuansai used the strategies of Bao Tan, Su Yan, and Gong Xi to move the Queen Mother to Cheng Hexuan and control the government. Several brothers were in charge of the imperial army, placed many close associates, and revised the system many times.
Emperor Xuan could not stop it, so he had a conflict with Cao Shuang.
In May, Emperor Xuan claimed to be ill and no longer participated in political affairs.
At that time, someone made up a ballad saying: He, Deng, and Ding caused trouble in the capital.
In the spring and March of the ninth year, Huangmen Zhang Dang secretly released eleven people including Cai Ren Hutong from the harem of Yeting, and gave them to Luo Sai to act as singing girls.
Xuansai and Yutan thought that Emperor Xuan was very ill, so they came up with the idea of ​​abolishing the monarch. They conspired with Baoshang to usurp the throne and planned the time.
Xuan Yi was also making secret preparations, and Cao Shuang's subordinates were also very suspicious of Emperor Xuan.
It happened that Yingchen Yin Kui was about to leave Xingye and came to visit Emperor Xuan.
Emperor Xuan pretended to be seriously ill and asked two maids to wait on him. He took his clothes and dropped them on the floor, pointed to his mouth and said he was thirsty. The maids brought him porridge, but Emperor Xuan didn't drink from the bowl himself, so the porridge spilled on his chest.
Li Sheng said: Everyone thought Ming Gong had an old illness, but they didn't expect his body to be like this!
Emperor Xuan was out of breath on purpose, and said in a weak voice: "I am old and sick, and I will die soon."
You are going to Bingzhou, which is close to the barbarians, so be on guard.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
恐不复相见，以子师、昭兄弟为托。
胜曰： 当还忝本州，非并州。
帝乃错乱其辞曰： 君方到并州。
胜复曰： 当忝荆州。
帝曰： 年老意荒，不解君言。
今还为本州，盛德壮烈，好建功勋！
胜退告爽曰： 司马公尸居余气，形神已离，不足虑矣。
他日，又言曰： 太傅不可复济，令人怆然。
故爽等不复设备。
嘉平元年春正月甲午，天子谒高平陵，爽兄弟皆从。
是日，太白袭月。
帝于是奏永宁太后，废爽兄弟。
时景帝为中护军，将兵屯司马门。
帝列阵阙下，经爽门。
爽帐下督严世上楼，引弩将射帝，孙谦止之曰： 事未可知。
三注三止，皆引其肘不得发。
大司农桓范出赴爽，蒋济言于帝曰： 智囊往矣。
帝曰： 爽与范内疏而智不及，驽马恋栈豆，必不能用也。
于是假司徒高柔节，行大将军事，领爽营，谓柔曰： 君为周勃矣。
命太仆王观行中领军，摄羲营。
帝亲帅太尉蒋济等勒兵出迎天子，屯于洛水浮桥，上奏曰： 先帝诏陛下、秦王及臣升于御床，握臣臂曰 深以后事为念 。
今大将军爽背弃顾命，败乱国典，内则僭拟，外专威权。
translation: 
I'm afraid we won't be able to meet each other again, so I entrust my sons, Sima Shi and Sima Zhao, to you.
Kuizhui said: I want to work in this state, not to merge with the state.
Emperor Xuan deliberately confused his words and said: "You have just arrived in Bingzhou."
Li Sheng added: "We are going to Jingzhou."
Emperor Xuan said: I am old, angry and ridiculous, and I did not understand what you said.
It is better to come to Honshu now. He is a man of high moral character and young age, just in time to make meritorious deeds!
After Li Sheng returned, he told Cao Shuang: Sima Gong was about to die with only one breath left. His form and spirit had been separated, and it was no longer worth worrying about.
A few days later, he said again: It is impossible for the Taifu to play any role anymore, which is sad.
Therefore, Cao Shuang and others no longer took precautions.
In the first spring of the first year of Jiaping, in the first month of Jiawu, the emperor paid a visit to Gaopingling Mausoleum, and Cao Shuang and his brothers followed him there.
On that day, the star Taibai covered the moon.
Emperor Xuan then reported to the Empress Dowager Yongning to depose Cao Shuang and his brothers.
At that time, Emperor Jing was appointed as the Central Protector of the Army and led troops to garrison Simamen.
Emperor Xuan formed a formation at the city gate and passed by Cao Shuang's gate.
Yan Shi, the governor of Cao Shuang's tent, climbed up the tower and drew his bow and arrow to shoot at Emperor Xuan. Sun Qian stopped him and said: "I don't understand everything yet."
Three times he tried to set up an arrow, but he was stopped three times. Each time, his arm was pulled to prevent him from shooting.
The great Sinong Huanfan went out of the city to join Cao Shuang. Jiang Ji said to Emperor Xuan: "The think tank has gone."
Emperor Xuan said: Cao Shuang and Huan Fan are careless in heart and not resourceful enough. The clumsy horses are greedy for the beans in the stable. He will definitely not reuse Huan Yu.
So he gave Situ Zhizhi Fujie, exercised the authority of the general, took over Jian Shuang's troops, and said to Gao Rou: "You are Zhou Bo."
He ordered his servant Wang Guan to lead the army and take over Cao Xi's troops.
Emperor Xuan personally led Taiwei Jiang Ji and other troops out to meet the emperor, and stationed troops on the pontoon bridge in Luoshui. He reported: The late emperor ordered your majesty, the King of Qin and me to come to the imperial bed, hold my hand and said: "I am deeply worried about my future affairs."
Now the general Cao Shuang has betrayed the late emperor's orders, corrupted the country's laws and regulations, acted arrogantly internally, and acted tyrannically externally.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
群官耍职，皆置所亲；宿卫旧人，并见斥黜。
根据盘牙，纵恣日甚。
又以黄门张当为都监，专共交关，伺候神器。
天下汹汹，人怀危惧。
陛下便为寄坐，岂得久安？
此非先帝诏陛下及臣升御床之本意也。
臣虽朽迈，敢忘前言。
昔赵高极意，秦是以亡；吕霍早断，汉祚永延。
此乃陛下之殷鉴，臣授命之秋也。
公卿群臣皆以爽有无君之心，兄弟不宜典兵宿卫；奏皇太后，皇太后敕如奏施行。
臣辄敕主者及黄门令罢爽、羲，训吏兵各以本官侯就第，若稽留车驾，以军法从事。
臣辄力疾将兵诣洛水浮桥，伺察非常。
爽不通奏，留车驾宿伊水南，伐树为鹿角，发屯兵数千人以守。
translation: 
His cronies were assigned to various important official positions; the emperor's old imperial guards were also expelled and abandoned.
They are intertwined and collude with each other, doing whatever they want day by day.
The eunuch Zhang Dang was also appointed as the capital supervisor, specially used to collude and spy on state power.
The world is in turmoil and everyone is in danger.
How can we maintain long-term peace and stability when Your Majesty is in a guest position?
This was not the original intention of the late Emperor Shao Ling His Majesty and I to come to the imperial bedside.
Although I am old and frail, I dare not forget the late Emperor's last words.
In the past, Zhao Chan acted wantonly, and Taili died because of it; the behavior of the two queens Danzhen and Huodanhuan had long been banned, and the Han Dynasty had been extended for a long time.
This is what Your Majesty can learn from the past, and it is also an opportunity for me to be loyal to you.
The ministers and ministers all believed that Cao Shuang wanted to abandon the monarch, and it was not appropriate for his brothers to lead troops to guard the palace. They reported this to the Queen Mother, who ordered them to act accordingly.
I immediately ordered the supervisor and Huangmen to remove Cao Shuang, Cao Cao, and Xuan Ji from their military power, and each of them was dismissed from his original official position and went home. If the emperor is detained, he will be punished according to military law.
I quickly led the troops to Luocheng Floating Bridge with all my strength to detect abnormal situations.
Cao Shuang did not inform Emperor Xuan of the memorial, and detained the emperor to stay south of the Yishui River. He cut down trees to serve as antlers to block the passage, and recruited thousands of soldiers to guard the fields.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
桓范果劝爽奉天子幸许昌，移檄征天下兵。
爽不能用，而夜遣侍中许允、尚书陈泰诣帝，观望风旨。
帝数其过失，事止免官。
泰还以报爽劝之通奏。
帝又遣爽所信殿中校尉尹大目谕爽，指洛水为誓，爽意信之。
桓范等援引古今，谏说万端，终不能从。乃曰： 司马公正当欲夺吾权耳。
吾得以侯还第，不失为富家翁。
范拊膺曰： 坐卿。灭吾族矣！
遂通帝奏。既而有司劾黄门张当，并发爽与何晏等反事，乃收爽兄弟及其党与何晏、丁谧、邓扬、毕轨、李胜、桓范等诛之。
蒋济曰： 曹真之勋，不可以不祀。
帝不听。
初，爽司马鲁芝、主簿杨综斩关奔爽。及爽之将归罪也，芝、综泣谏曰： 公居伊周之任，挟天子，杖天威，孰敢不从？
舍此而欲就东市，岂不痛哉！
有司奏收芝、综科罪，帝赦之，曰： 以劝事君者。
translation: 
As expected, Huan Fan persuaded Xuan Chui to let the emperor go to Bingdan and move the document to recruit soldiers and horses from all over the country.
Xuansai did not adopt it, but sent his servant Xu Yun and Shangshu Chen Tai to Emperor Xuan's house at night to observe his movements.
Emperor Xuan cited his faults and the punishment was limited to removal from official position.
Chen Tai returned to report to Cao Shuang and advised him to report the memorial.
Emperor Xuan also sent Xuansai's trusted lieutenant colonel Yin Zuodan to explain to him that Xuansai trusted Emperor Xuan.
Danxi and others cited ancient and modern examples and tried to persuade him in every possible way. Cao Shuang did not listen in the end and said: Duke Long Zhou just wanted to deprive me of my power.
I was able to resign as a Marquis and go home, still a wealthy man.
Danba beat his chest and said: I am going to be exterminated because of your involvement!
So Emperor Xuan's memorial was notified, and then the competent authorities impeached the eunuch Zhang Shang, and exposed Xuansai, Yulei and others for plotting rebellion, so they arrested the Juzao brothers and their disciples Pannu, Weili, Taotan, Ligui, Kuiyu, and Danhuan and executed them all.
Lan Shan said: Xuan Zhen's meritorious service must be sacrificed.
Emperor Xuan didn't listen.
At first, Sima Diezhi and Chief Secretary of Jusai killed the soldiers guarding the pass and defected to Xuanxi. When Xuanlong was about to surrender and plead guilty, Lu Jie and Naobi cried and remonstrated, saying: "The Duke lives in the position of Yi Yin and Zhou Gong, supports the emperor, and relies on the power of God. Who dares to disobey?"
How can it not be heartbreaking to throw away these things and want to take the initiative to go to the execution ground?
The officials petitioned for the arrest of Die Yi and the condemnation of the lot, and Xuan Yi pardoned them, saying: "This will encourage those who are loyal to the monarch."


Chunk 26: 
original: 
二月，天子以帝为丞相，增封颍川之繁昌、鄢陵、新汲、父城，并前八县，邑二万户，奏事不名。
固让丞相。
冬十二月，加九锡之礼，朝会不拜。
固让九锡。
二年春正月，天子命帝立庙于洛阳，置左右长史，增掾属、舍人满十人，岁举掾属任御史、秀才各一人，增官骑百人，鼓吹十四人，封子肜平乐亭侯，伦安乐亭侯。
帝以久疾不任朝请，每有大事，天子亲幸第以谘访焉。
兗州刺史令狐愚、太尉王凌贰于帝，谋立楚王彪。
三年春正月，王凌诈言吴人塞涂水，请发兵以讨之。
帝潜知其计，不听。
夏四月，帝自帅中军，泛舟沿流，九日而到甘城。
translation: 
In February, the emperor appointed Emperor Xuan as prime minister, and added Fandan, Huayou, and Tombqiu in Jiechuan as fiefs. Together with the previous ones, there were eight counties with 20,000 households. There was no need to report one's name when submitting the memorial.
Emperor Xuan resolutely refused the post of prime minister.
In winter and December, the courtesy of Jiuxi is added, so you don't have to pay homage during the court meeting.
Emperor Xuan resolutely rejected Jiuxi.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, the emperor ordered Emperor Xuan to build an ancestral temple in Luoyang, set up a long history on the left and right, and added ten officials and family members. Every year, one person was elected from among the officials to serve as censor, one person was elected as a scholar, one hundred officials and cavalry were added, and fourteen drummers were added.
Emperor Xuan could not go to court to report to the emperor because of his long-term illness. Whenever there was an important matter, the emperor would personally come to Emperor Xuan's residence to inquire.
Ling Huyu, the governor of Yanzhou, and Wang Leng, the commander-in-chief of Yanzhou, had second thoughts about Emperor Xuan and conspired to make Cao Biao, the king of Chu, the emperor.
In the spring and first month of the third year, Wang Jun falsely reported that the Wu people had blocked Tu Shui and requested to send troops to conquer.
Emperor Xuan secretly knew his plot and did not agree.
In the fourth month of summer, Emperor Xuan personally led the Chinese army and sailed along the water to reach Gancheng in nine days.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
凌计无所出，乃迎于武丘，面缚水次，曰： 凌若有罪，公当折简召凌，何苦自来邪！
帝曰： 以君非折简之客故耳。
即以凌归于京师。
道经贾逵庙，凌呼曰： 贾梁道！
王凌是大魏之忠臣，惟尔有神知之。
至项，仰鸩而死。
收其余党，皆夷三族，并杀彪。
悉录魏诸王公置于鄴，命有司监察，不得交关。
天子遣侍中韦诞持节劳军于五池。
帝至自甘城，天子又使兼大鸿胪、太仆庾嶷持节，策命帝为相国，封安平郡公，孙及兄子各一人为列侯，前后食邑五万户，侯者十九人。
固让相国、郡公不受。
六月，帝寝疾，梦贾逵、王凌为祟，甚恶之。
秋八月戊寅，崩于京师，时年七十三。
天子素服临吊，丧葬威仪依汉霍光故事，追赠相国、郡公。
translation: 
Wang Jun had no choice, so he went to Wuqiu to greet him, tied himself by the water, and said: "If Wang Jun is guilty, you should break the slip and call me in letter. Why bother to come in person?"
Emperor Xuan said: Because you are not a person who can turn your abbreviation into a letter.
He took Wang Jun back to the capital with him.
Passing the Maikui Temple on the way, Wang Jun shouted: "Maikui Road!"
Wang Jun was a loyal minister of the Wei Dynasty, and only the gods understood this.
When he reached Xiang, he took poison and died.
The remaining party members who arrested him killed all three tribes and beheaded Cao Biao.
Gather all the princes of the Wei family in Ye and order the relevant departments to keep them under guard and not to allow them to come in casually.
The emperor sent his servant Wei Dan to hold the talisman festival in Wuchi to comfort the army.
After Emperor Xuan arrived from Gancheng, the emperor ordered Da Honglu and his imperial servant Yu Yi to hold the talisman, and ordered Emperor Xuan to be the prime minister of the country, and to make Anping County Duke. Each of his grandson and his brother's son was made a marquis, and 50,000 households were granted successively. There were 19 people in the clan who were marquises.
Emperor Xuan resolutely dismissed the Prime Minister and the Duke but did not accept it.
In June, Emperor Xuan was bedridden. He dreamed that Mai Kui and Wang Jun were causing trouble, and he was very disgusted.
Wuyin died in the capital in the eighth month of autumn at the age of seventy-three.
The emperor came to express his condolences in person wearing plain clothes. The funeral specifications were modeled on the old system of Huo Guang of the Han Dynasty, and he was given posthumously to the prime minister and the county governor.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
弟孚表陈先志，辞郡公及韫辌车。
九月庚申，葬于河阴，谥曰文贞，后改谥文宣。
先是，预作终制，于首阳山为土藏，不坟不树；作顾命三篇，敛以时服，不设明器，后终者不得合葬。
一如遗命。
晋国初建，追尊曰宣王。
武帝受禅，上尊号曰宣皇帝，陵曰高原，庙称高祖。
帝内忌而外宽，猜忌多权变。
魏武察帝有雄豪志，闻有狼顾相。欲验之。
乃召使前行，令反顾，面正向后而身不动。
又尝梦三马同食一槽，甚恶焉。
因谓太子丕曰： 司马懿非人臣也，必预汝家事。
太子素与帝善，每相全佑，故免。
帝于是勤于吏职，夜以忘寝，至于刍牧之间，悉皆临履，由是魏武意遂安。
及平公孙文懿，大行杀戮。
诛曹爽之际，支党皆夷及三族，男女无少长，姑姊妹女子之适人者皆杀之，既而竟迁魏鼎云。
明帝时，王导侍坐。
帝问前世所以得天下，导乃陈帝创业之始，用文帝末高贵乡公事。
明帝以面覆床曰： 若如公言，晋祚复安得长远！
迹其猜忍，盖有符于狼顾也。
制曰：夫天地之大，黎元为本。邦国之贵，元首为先。
translation: 
His younger brother, Sima Fu, went to court to state Emperor Xuan's wishes during his lifetime and to reject the Duke and Yun Cheng.
In September, Geng Shen was buried in Heyin. Mi Hao Wen was later changed to Xuan Sai.
Before that, Xuanhu had given instructions in advance that he would be buried in Juyang Mountain without building a grave or erecting a monument; he would write three chapters of "Gu Ming" and bury him in the clothes of the time, without any funeral objects, and those who died later could not be buried together.
Everything is according to his orders.
When the Jin Kingdom was first established, Emperor Xuan was honored as King Xuan.
After the master boy accepted the abdication, he was honored as Emperor Xuan, his mausoleum was named Plateau, and his temple was named Gaozu.
Xuanhu was jealous in his heart but generous in appearance, suspicious and manipulative.
Emperor Sewu noticed that Emperor Xuan was ambitious. He heard that he could look back at people like a wolf and wanted to test it.
He called him forward and asked him to look back. Emperor Xuan's face was facing backward but his body was not moving.
Emperor Wu once dreamed that three horses were eating in the same manger, and he was very disgusted.
He told Prince Cao Pi: Sima Yi is not a willing minister and will definitely interfere in national affairs.
The prince had always been very good with Emperor Xuan and always protected him, so he was spared.
Emperor Xuan was very diligent in his position, working around the clock, personally taking care of everything from cutting grass to grazing, so Emperor Wu of Wei was relieved.
When Gongsun Wenyi was pacified, they massacred them wantonly.
When Cao Shuang was killed, all his party members were killed by the Yi clan, regardless of gender, old or young. Even his married sisters and so on were all killed, and then he finally usurped the power of Wei.
During the reign of Emperor Ming of Jin Dynasty, Director Wang was sitting beside him.
When Emperor Ming asked about how he had conquered the world in his previous life, Wang Dao recounted what happened when Emperor Xuan started his business and what happened to the noble countryman in the last years of Emperor Wen.
Emperor Ming put his face on the bed and said: If it is really like what you said, how can the Jin Dynasty last long?
Analyzing the reason for his suspicion and cruelty, it is probably in line with the wolf's characteristic of looking back.
Zhi said: The heaven and the earth are vast, and the people are the most important; the most respected person in the country is the head of the country.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
治乱无常，兴亡有运。
是故五帝之上，居万乘以为忧；三王已来，处其忧而为乐。
竞智力，争利害，大小相吞，强弱相袭。
逮乎魏室，三方鼎峙，干戈不息，氛雾交飞。
宣皇以天挺之姿，应期佐命，文以缵治，武以棱威。
用人如在己，求贤若不及；情深阻而莫测，性宽绰而能容，和光同尘，与时舒卷，戢鳞潜翼，思属风云。
饰忠于已诈之心，延安于将危之命。
观其雄略内断，英猷外决，殄公孙于百日，擒孟达于盈旬，自以兵动若神，谋无再计矣。
既而拥众西举，与诸葛相持。
抑其甲兵，本无斗志，遗其巾帼，方发愤心。
杖节当门，雄图顿屈，请战千里，诈欲示威。
且秦蜀之人，勇懦非敌，夷险之路，劳逸不同，以此争功，其利可见。
而返闭军固垒，莫敢争锋，生怯实而未前，死疑虚而犹遁，良将之道，失在斯乎！
文帝之世，辅翼权重，许昌同萧何之委，崇华甚霍光之寄。
当谓竭诚尽节，伊傅可齐。
及明帝将终，栋梁是属，受遗二主，佐命三朝，既承忍死之托，曾无殉生之报。
天子在外，内起甲兵，陵土未乾，遽相诛戮，贞臣之体，宁若此乎！
translation: 
Peace and war are unpredictable, but prosperity and decline are determined by luck.
Therefore, the five emperors and above, who ruled the country of ten thousand chariots, took this as a worry; the three kings and above, who were in trouble, took pleasure in this.
Competition of intelligence, struggle for power, big and small countries annexing each other, strong and weak countries invading each other.
Until the Wei Dynasty, the three kingdoms were at odds with each other, wars continued year after year, and there was chaos everywhere.
Emperor Xuan used his outstanding natural appearance and talents to assist the emperor in accordance with the times. He was able to govern with literature and defeat the enemy with force.
Employing people is like using yourself, looking for talents and fearing that they will fail; your emotions are deep and unpredictable, and your personality is generous and tolerant. Follow the customs without showing off your edge, conform to the current situation, bend and stretch slowly, hide your scales, hide your wings and be determined to wait for the time, and pay attention to the changing situation at any time.
Disguise your cunning heart as loyalty and seek peace in times of crisis.
The talented man made great decisions from within, and the wise planning made decisions from the outside. He eliminated Gongsun Wenyi within a hundred days, and captured Cuida alive in about ten days. He thought that he was like a god with his troops and had incomparable strategies.
Then he led an army to attack the west, supporting Zhuge Liang.
Zhuge Liang controlled his army and did not want to fight. Zhuge Liang gave him women's clothing, and then he decided to fight.
The envoy was blocked in front of the door, his ambitions were suddenly withdrawn, and he went to fight thousands of miles away, just to show his military power.
Moreover, the people of Qin and Shu are different from those who are brave and strong, and those who are timid and cowardly. The roads are smooth and dangerous, hard and comfortable, so there are obvious advantages to fighting for victory.
However, he closed his camp without fortifications and did not dare to go to war. When he was alive, he did not dare to advance because of fear. After he died, he suspected that it was false and retreated. The strategy of an excellent general was lost here!
In the era of Emperor Wen, he assisted the imperial court and gained great power. He received the same great trust in Xuchang as Xiao He did at that time, and gained more trust in Chonghua Palace than Huo Guang received.
If you are loyal and righteous, you can be as famous as Yi Yin and Fu Shuo.
When Emperor Wei Ming was dying, he entrusted him with important affairs of the country, accepted the edicts of the two monarchs, and assisted him for three generations. Although he accepted the great trust before his death, he did not repay him with his own life.
The emperor was outside the capital, but war broke out in the city, and the emperor's tombs were not yet dry, and they immediately killed each other. Is this the behavior of loyal ministers?


Chunk 30: 
original: 
尽善之方，以斯为惑。
夫征讨之策，岂东智而西愚？
辅佐之心，何前忠而后乱？
故晋明掩面，耻欺伪以成功；石勒肆言，笑奸回以定业。
古人有云： 积善三年，知之者少，为恶一日，闻于天下。
可不谓然乎！
虽自隐过当年，而终见嗤后代。
亦犹窃钟掩耳，以众人为不闻；锐意盗金，谓市中为莫睹。
故知贪于近者则遗远，溺于利者则伤名；若不损己以益人，则当祸人而福己。
顺理而举易为力，背时而动难为功。
况以未成之晋基，逼有余之魏祚？
虽复道格区宇，德被苍生，而天未启时，宝位犹阻，非可以智竞，不可以力争，虽则庆流后昆，而身终于北面矣。
translation: 
The principle of perfection is puzzling.
Doesn't his strategy of conquest make him smart at the end but stupid at the west?
With the intention of assisting the monarch, why is he loyal at first and then traitorous?
So Emperor Jin Ming hid his face and listened, feeling ashamed that he had achieved success through deception; Shi Le spoke boldly and laughed at him for using treacherous and evil methods to establish his empire.
The ancients said: If you accumulate good deeds for three years, few people will know about it; if you do a bad deed for one day, the news will spread all over the world.
Isn’t that so?
Although he was able to hide his past at the time, he was eventually ridiculed in later generations.
It is like hiding one's ears and stealing a bell, thinking that no one can hear it; concentrating on stealing money, thinking that no one in the market can see it.
Therefore, being greedy for the present will definitely lead to loss of the long-term, and being obsessed with profit will definitely damage your reputation. If you don't want to benefit others at the expense of yourself, you will definitely benefit yourself at the expense of others.
It is easy to succeed if you act in accordance with the laws of nature, but it is difficult to succeed if you act against the fate of the times.
What's more, because the foundation of Jin has not been completed, Wei State, which still has some luck, is forced to do so.
Even though his Taoism has moved all directions and his kindness has spread to all living beings, God has not yet opened the opportunity, and there are still obstacles to the throne of the emperor. He cannot compete with wisdom or seize it with force. Although the blessings are passed down to future generations, he has always been north of the throne.


